HANOVER, Germany — President Obama urged Europeans on Monday to remain united in the face of growing economic and security threats, saying that the dangers of inequality, terrorism, prejudice and injustice would drag down the United States and Europe if countries on both sides of the Atlantic do not continue to work together.
德国汉诺威——美国总统奥巴马周一呼吁欧洲人在不断增长的经济和安全威胁面前保持团结，他说，如果大西洋两岸的国家不继续一起工作的话，不平等、恐怖主义、歧视和不公正的危险将削弱美国和欧洲。
In a 49-minute speech at the conclusion of his six-day trip to the Middle East, Britain and Germany, Mr. Obama also confirmed a recent report in The New York Times that he would increase the number of military personnel, including Special Forces, in Syria to fight the Islamic State, now around 50, by about 250 people.
奥巴马在为期六天的中东、英国和德国之行结束时发表的这个49分钟的演讲中，还证实了《纽约时报》最近的一个报道，报道称奥巴马将把美国在叙利亚的军事人员、包括特种部队人员的数量，从目前的约50人增加到约250人，以对抗伊斯兰国。
Mr. Obama told an audience of business leaders, politicians and students that Europe must not let itself be pulled apart by those who fear cooperation.
奥巴马对商界领袖、政界人士和学生组成的听众说，欧洲一定不要让自己被那些害怕合作的人拆散。
“Dangerous forces do threaten to pull the world backwards, and our progress is not inevitable,” Mr. Obama said in one of his final trips to Europe as president. “We are not immune from the forces of change around the world.”
“危险的力量确实在威胁把世界拉向过去，我们的进步并非不可避免。我们并不能免受来自世界各地的变革力量的影响，”奥巴马在演讲中说，这次旅行是他作为总统访问欧洲的最后几次之一。
Mr. Obama has spent much of his visit to Europe urging the British people to vote to remain in the European Union in a referendum on June 23. He said repeatedly over the past week that leaving the 28-member bloc would undercut Britain’s influence and weaken the democratic alliance that binds Europe.
奥巴马把此次欧洲旅行的不少时间花在了敦促英国民众在6月23日举行的公投中选择留在欧盟上。他在过去一周中一再表示，退出由28个成员国组成的联盟将削弱英国的影响力，同时也将削弱这个把欧洲凝聚起来的民主联盟。
In his speech on Monday, Mr. Obama went further, arguing to members of the predominantly German audience that they, too, must resist the temptation to go it alone in fighting the Islamic State, pushing for economic security and confronting the huge new flows of migrants.
奥巴马在周一的讲话中更进了一步，他对主要是德国人的听众说，在打击伊斯兰国、推动经济安全，以及面对巨大的移民新高潮等问题上，他们也必须抵制独自行动的诱惑。
“If we do not solve these problems, you start seeing those who would try to exploit those fears and frustrations and channel them in a destructive way,” Mr. Obama said in comments that appeared to refer, at least in part, to Donald J. Trump, the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.
“如果我们不解决这些问题，你们将开始看到，有人会试图利用这些恐惧和不满，把其引导到破坏性的方向上去，”奥巴马说，这番话听上去至少部分地暗指在共和党总统提名人竞选中领先的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
Support for populist and nationalist movements has grown in Europe in recent months, with the most recent example coming on Sunday in Austria, where a member of the far-right Freedom Party finished on top in the first round of voting for the country’s largely ceremonial presidency.
对民粹主义和民族主义运动的支持最近几个月在欧洲也有所增长，最近的例子是奥地利，在周日的奥地利总统选举的头一轮中，极右翼自由党的一名成员胜选，奥地利总统主要是礼仪性的。
Reflecting on the dangers to the political situation, Mr. Obama quoted the Irish poet William Butler Yeats as saying that they lurk where “the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.”
奥巴马引用爱尔兰诗人叶芝的诗句，对政治局势的危险表达自己的态度说，危险潜伏在“优秀的人们信心尽失，坏蛋们则充满了炽烈狂热”的地方（引号中的叶芝诗句来自袁可嘉译本，译注）。
That kind of destructive politics must not take root in Europe, Mr. Obama said, or there would be damaging consequences for the United States and many other nations around the world.
奥巴马说，不能让这种破坏性的政治在欧洲扎根，否则对美国和世界各地的许多其他国家将会有破坏性的后果。
“If a unified, peaceful, liberal, pluralistic free-market Europe begins to doubt itself, begins to question the progress that’s been made over the last several decades, then we can’t expect the progress that is just now taking hold in many places around the world will continue,” he said.
他说，“如果一个统一、和平、自由、多元的自由市场经济的欧洲开始怀疑自己，开始对过去几十年里已取得的进步产生疑问的话，那我们就不能指望如今在世界许多地方刚刚开始的进步将能继续。”
Mr. Obama’s warnings against unilateral actions were clearly intended to steer Europe away from nationalist or isolationist stands. But, in fact, his close ally, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, has found herself isolated in the European Union for refusing to meet calls from other countries or from her own conservative bloc to put an upper limit on the flow of migrants.
奥巴马对采取单方面行动的警告，显然意在引导欧洲不采取民族主义或孤立主义的立场。但是，事实上，他的亲密盟友德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)已发现自己在欧盟处于孤立状态，因为她拒绝响应来自其他国家或自己的保守阵营给移民人数设置上限的呼吁。
Ms. Merkel put together crafted a deal between Turkey and the European Union in March that gave a veneer of unity to the Continent’s very mixed response to arriving refugees and migrants. That deal remains the subject of intense debate in light of Turkey’s current crackdown on the news media and on other freedoms.
默克尔今年3月精心制作了一份土耳其与欧盟之间的协议，协议掩饰了欧洲大陆对难民和移民的非常不同的反应。鉴于土耳其目前对新闻媒体和其它自由的镇压，人们对该协议仍有相当激烈的争论。
The accord has succeeded in sharply reducing the migrant flow, but only in tandem with an earlier decision by Austria and Balkan states to close their land borders and shut off the route favored by approximately one million migrants last year.
该协议在大量减少移民人数上取得了成功，但成功只是因为奥地利和巴尔干国家早些时候做出关闭它们陆地边界的决定，断掉了约一百万移民去年的首选路线。
Mr. Obama also gently chided the Germans and other European nations for not always carrying a fair share of the financial and military burden as part of the NATO alliance.
奥巴马还对德国和其他欧洲国家作为北约组织的一部分，不总承贷该组织的财政和军事负担的公平份额，做出了温柔的批评。
Those comments echoed remarks the president made recently in The Atlantic, where he referred to some European leaders as “free riders” who relied too heavily on the United States to pay for their military defense and to wage the fight against extremism.
这些言论与总统最近接受《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)采访时表达的看法相呼应，他在采访中说一些欧洲领导人“搭便车”，他们在军事防御开支、以及与极端主义作战上过于依赖美国。
In increasing the number of special forces in Syria, Mr. Obama said he was hoping to cement what he said was progress in pushing back the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, from territory that it had held.
在提到增加叙利亚特种部队的数量时，奥巴马说，他希望能巩固在夺回被伊斯兰国占领的领土上取得的他所说的进展，伊斯兰国也简称ISIS或ISIL。
But he said he would go to the NATO meetings in Europe this summer and would demand that every nation contribute 2 percent of its gross domestic product to the defense of the Continent.
奥巴马说，他今年夏天会去欧洲参加北约会议，届时他将提出每个成员国为欧洲大陆防御贡献自己国内生产总值2％的要求。
“We can’t deal with these challenges by ourselves,” Mr. Obama said.
“我们不能只靠我们自己来对付这些挑战，”奥巴马说。
For much of the speech, the American president lavished praise on Europe, citing what it has achieved. He said that Europeans should not take for granted the democratic societies they have built or the major wars they have avoided in the past several decades.
这位美国总统在大部分演讲中对欧洲大赞特赞，表扬了它已经取得的成就。他说，欧洲人不应该把他们已经建成的民主社会认为是理所当然的，也不应该把他们能够在过去几十年中避免了主要战争当成理所当然。
“Perhaps you need an outsider, somebody who’s not a European, to remind you of the magnitude of what you’ve achieved,” he said, adding that the European Union “remains one of the greatest political and economic achievements of modern times.”
“也许你们需要一个局外人、一个非欧洲人，来提醒你们欧洲已经取得的成就多么重要，”奥巴马说，并补充道，欧联“仍是现代史上最伟大的政治和经济成就之一”。
But he also cautioned that confronting the very real issue of economic inequality would require unity and more cooperation, not the erection of new barriers.
但他也警告说，解决经济不平等这一非常现实的问题，需要团结以及更多的合作，而不是设立新的障碍。