WASHINGTON — President Obama’s aides were stunned at what their boss had to say when he summoned them to the Oval Office on Friday at 7 p.m., on the eve of what they believed could be a weekend when American missiles streaked again across the Middle East.
华盛顿——当奥巴马总统的助手们于上周五晚7点被召唤到椭圆形办公室时，他们为自己的老板说出来的话感到震惊，当时他们都以为美国的导弹将在这个周末再次掠过中东的天空。
In a two-hour meeting of passionate, sharp debate in the Oval Office, he told them that after a frantic week in which he seemed to be rushing toward a military attack on Syria, he wanted to pull back and seek Congressional approval first.
椭圆形办公室的两小时会议充满了情绪激动的讨论，过去一周里奥巴马似乎一直在不顾一切地推动对叙利亚的军事打击，但现在他说他想要后退一步，先寻求国会的认可。
He had several reasons, he told them, including a sense of isolation after the terrible setback in the British Parliament. But the most compelling one may have been that acting alone would undercut him if in the next three years he needed Congressional authority for his next military confrontation in the Middle East, perhaps with Iran.
他告诉他们，他有好几个原因，其中包括在英国议会里遭遇严重挫折后的孤立感。但最为迫不得已的一个或许是，美国单独行动将削弱他在未来三年里所需的国会支持，而他需要这种支持来推动他在中东的下一次军事对抗，或许是与伊朗。
If he made the decision to strike Syria without Congress now, he said, would he get Congress when he really needed it?
他问，如果他无视国会而作出打击叙利亚的决定，当他需要国会时，后者还会支持他吗？
“He can’t make these decisions divorced from the American public and from Congress,” said a senior aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the deliberations. “Who knows what we’re going to face in the next three and a half years in the Middle East?”
“他无法抛开美国公众和国会，擅自做出这些决定，”一名要求以匿名身份谈及此次磋商的高级助手称。“在未来三年半里，谁知道我们会在中东遇到什么呢？”
The Oval Office meeting ended one of the strangest weeks of the Obama administration, in which a president who had drawn a “red line” against the use of chemical weapons, and watched Syrian military forces breach it with horrific consequences, found himself compelled to act by his own statements. But Mr. Obama, who has been reluctant for the past two years to get entangled in Syria, had qualms from the start.
此次的椭圆形办公室会议为奥巴马执政以来最为奇特的一周画上了句号。在这周里，总统划过一条反对化学武器使用的“红线”，却眼睁睁看着叙利亚军方越线并造成严重后果，令他不得不被迫履行自己的言论。但过去两年内一直不愿在叙利亚问题上纠缠不清的奥巴马，从一开始就有顾虑。
Even as he steeled himself for an attack this past week, two advisers said, he nurtured doubts about the political and legal justification for action, given that the United Nations Security Council had refused to bless a military strike that he had not put before Congress. A drumbeat of lawmakers demanding a vote added to the sense that he could be out on a limb.
两名顾问称，尽管在过去一周里不断为发动攻击进行心理准备，但他对这一行动的政治和法律理由始终存有疑虑，因为联合国安理会拒绝支持一个未经国会批准的军事打击计划。许多议员要求进行投票，更是增加了他孤立无援的感觉。
“I know well we are weary of war,” Mr. Obama said in the Rose Garden on Saturday. “We’ve ended one war in Iraq. We’re ending another in Afghanistan. And the American people have the good sense to know we cannot resolve the underlying conflict in Syria with our military.”
“我知道我们已经厌倦了战争，”奥巴马周六在玫瑰园说。“我们已经在伊拉克结束了一场战争，并且正在结束在阿富汗的战争。而美国民众也很明白，我们无法用自己的军队来解决叙利亚的根本冲突。”
The speech, which crystallized both Mr. Obama’s outrage at the wanton use of chemical weapons and his ambivalence about military action, was a coda to a week that began the previous Saturday, when he convened a meeting of his National Security Council.
这次演讲明确了两件事情，其一是奥巴马对肆意使用化学武器的愤怒，其二是他对采取军事行动的矛盾心理，这为始于前一个周六的一周画上了句号，当时他召集了一次国家安全委员会(National Security Council)会议。
In that meeting, held in the White House Situation Room, Mr. Obama said he was devastated by the images of women and children gasping and convulsing from the effects of a poison gas attack in the suburbs of Damascus three days before. The Aug. 21 attack, which American intelligence agencies say killed more than 1,400 people, was on a far different scale than earlier, smaller chemical weapons attacks in Syria, which were marked by murky, conflicting evidence.
在那次于白宫局势研究室举行的会议上，奥巴马说那些妇女和儿童抽搐、痉挛的画面令他深感痛心，这些人三天前在大马士革市郊遭到了毒气袭击。美国情报机构称，8月21日的袭击造成超过1400人死亡，规模远比叙利亚早先的小范围化学武器袭击要大，而关于那几次袭击只能找到一些含混的、不一致的证据。
“I haven’t made a decision yet on military action,” he told his war council that Saturday, according to an aide. “But when I was talking about chemical weapons, this is what I was talking about.” From that moment, the White House set about formulating the strongest case for military action it could.
据一名助手称，他在那个周六告诉他的“战事委员会”说，“我对军事行动还没有做出决策。但当初我说起化学武器的时候，我说的就是现在这种状况。”从那一刻起，白宫就开始研究，如何为军事行动提供一个最具信服力的说法。
Last Sunday, it issued a statement dismissing the need to wait for United Nations investigators because their evidence, the statement said, had been corrupted by the relentless shelling of the sites. By Monday, Secretary of State John Kerry, who had long advocated a more aggressive policy on Syria, delivered a thunderous speech that said President Bashar al-Assad was guilty of a “moral obscenity.”
上周日，白宫发表了一份声明，谴责了需要等待联合国调查员的做法，声明称，由于出事地点遭到持续性的炮击，他们寻找的证据已被破坏。周一，长期以来呼吁对叙利亚采取更强硬政策的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)发表了一场怒气冲冲的演说，斥责巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)“道德败坏”。
By midweek, administration officials were telling reporters that the administration would not be deterred by the lack of an imprimatur from the Security Council, where Syria’s biggest backer, Russia, holds a veto.
到了周中，奥巴马政府的官员向记者表示，政府不会因为没能得到安理会正式批准而畏缩不前。在安理会的表决中，叙利亚的头号支持者俄罗斯行使了否决权。
Yet the president’s ambivalence was palpable, and public. While Mr. Kerry made his fiery case against Mr. Assad, Mr. Obama was circumspect, sprinkling his words with caveats about the modest scale of the operation and acknowledgments of the nation’s combat fatigue.
然而总统的犹豫不决是明显而公开的。当克里用激烈的言辞控诉着阿萨德时，奥巴马显得小心翼翼，言论中闪烁着一些限定条件，称行动的规模不会大，并表示自己清楚现在国家正处在战斗疲劳中。
“We don’t have good options, great options, for the region,” the president said in an interview Wednesday on PBS’s “News Hour,” before describing a “limited, tailored” operation that he said would amount to a “shot across the bow” for Mr. Assad.
“对这个地区，我们没有好的选项，没有万全之策，”总统在周三接受PBS《新闻一小时》(NewsHour)采访时说，而后他描画了一场“有限的、量身定制的”行动，作为对阿萨德的一次“鸣枪示警”。
White House aides were in the meantime nervously watching a drama across the Atlantic. They knew that Prime Minister David Cameron’s attempt to win the British Parliament’s authorization for action was in deep trouble, but the defeat on a preliminary motion by just 13 votes on Thursday was a jolt. Although aides said before the vote that Mr. Obama was prepared to launch a strike without waiting for a second British vote, scheduled for Tuesday, the lack of a British blessing removed another layer of legitimacy.
与此同时，白宫的助手们在紧张地观看大西洋彼岸的一场大戏。他们知道戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)首相要争取英国议会的行动授权是有很大困难的，但上周四的初步动议以13票之差落败，这还是令人大吃一惊。助手们说奥巴马总统已经做好发动打击的准备，不必等待英国定于本周二进行的第二次投票，但没有了英国的认可终归削弱了此事的正当性。
Mr. Obama was annoyed by what he saw as Mr. Cameron’s stumbles, reflecting a White House view that Mr. Cameron had mishandled the situation. Beyond that, Mr. Obama said little about his thinking at the time.
在奥巴马看来这是卡梅伦的失误，并为此颇为懊恼，这反映出白宫的看法是卡梅伦没有把握好局面。除此之外奥巴马对那一刻的想法没作太多表露。
It was only on Friday that he told the aides, they said, about how his doubts had grown after the vote: a verdict, Mr. Obama told his staff, that convinced him it was all the more important to get Congressional ratification. After all, he told them, “we similarly have a war-weary public.”
白宫助手们称，总统直到周五才告诉他们，这个投票结果加重了他的担忧：奥巴马对幕僚说，这样一个决定让他愈发相信，获取国会的正式批准是很重要的。他对他们说，毕竟，“我们的公众也一样厌倦了战争。”
And if the British government was unable to persuade lawmakers of the legitimacy of its plan, shouldn’t he submit it to the same litmus test in Congress, even if he had not done so in the case of Libya?
如果英国政府无法让议员们接受这个计划的正当性，他难道不应该将之提交给国会接受检验？尽管在利比亚的问题上他没这么做。
Beyond the questions of political legitimacy, aides said, Mr. Obama told them on Friday that he was troubled that authorizing another military action over the heads of Congress would contradict the spirit of his speech last spring in which he attempted to chart a shift in the United States from the perennial war footing of the post-Sept. 11 era.
除了对政治正当性的疑虑，助手们说奥巴马在周五还对他们说，他担心如果再次绕过国会做出军事行动授权，就背离了他在今年春天的演讲的精神，当时他表示希望改变美国在“9·11”后处于持久战争的局面。
All of these issues were on Mr. Obama’s mind when he invited his chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, for an early evening stroll on the south lawn of the White House. In the West Wing, an aide said, staff members hoped to get home early, recognizing they would spend the weekend in the office.
当他和白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)在傍晚时分的白宫南草坪散步时，他的脑子里想的就是这些事。一位助手说，当时，在西翼楼的幕僚们都希望能早点回家，因为他们意识到这个周末将要在办公室里度过。
Forty-five minutes later, shortly before 7, Mr. Obama summoned his senior staff members to tell them that he had decided to take military action, but with a caveat.
45分钟后，临近晚上7点，奥巴马召集他的高级幕僚宣布，他决定采取军事行动，但有限制条件。
“I have a pretty big idea I want to test with you guys,” he said to the group, which included Mr. McDonough and his deputy, Rob Nabors; the national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, and her deputies, Antony J. Blinken and Benjamin J. Rhodes; the president’s senior adviser, Dan Pfeiffer; and several legal experts to discuss the War Powers Resolution.
“我有一个很大的想法，想说给你们听听，”他对众人说，这里面包括麦克多诺和他的副手罗勃·纳伯斯(Rob Nabors)；国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)以及她的副手安东尼·J·布林肯(Antony J. Blinken)和本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)；总统的高级顾问高级顾问丹·法伊弗(Dan Pfeiffer)；以及多位前来讨论《战争权力决议案》(War Powers Resolution)的法律专家。
The resistance from the group was immediate. The political team worried that Mr. Obama could lose the vote, as Mr. Cameron did, and that it could complicate the White House’s other legislative priorities. The national security team argued that international support for an operation was unlikely to improve.
众人当即表示了反对。政治团队担心奥巴马会和卡梅伦一样在表决中失利，这还会给白宫的其他重点立法项目制造麻烦。国家安全团队则认为，国际上对行动的支持不太可能有什么改观。
At 9 p.m., the president drew the debate to a close and telephoned Mr. Kerry and Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to tell them of his plans.
晚上9点，总统结束了辩论，而后在电话中向克里和国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)说明了他的计划。