BOSTON — After Zeituni Onyango, the woman President Obama once called Auntie, died in a South Boston nursing home this month, her closest relatives gathered her belongings at her nearby apartment. There, framed photographs of her with the president covered the wall.
波士顿——奥巴马总统的姑妈泽伊图妮·奥尼扬戈(Zeituni Onyango)本月在南波士顿的疗养院去世，她最亲近的亲属来到她位于疗养院附近的公寓中收拾她的物品。房间内的墙壁上挂满了相框，里面是她与奥巴马总统的合照。
Weeping before a polished wood coffin at her wake this past Saturday, they described Ms. Onyango, the half sister of the president’s father, as “the spirit of the Obama family” and talked about raising money to send her body back to Kenya. Mr. Obama helped pay funeral expenses and sent a condolence note, Ms. Onyango’s family members said, but the president did not attend, as he was golfing.
上周六，亲属们在光亮的木棺前为她守灵时纷纷哭泣，称奥尼扬戈——奥巴马父亲同父异母的妹妹——代表着“奥巴马家族的精神”，他们还讨论筹钱将她的遗体送回肯尼亚。奥尼扬戈的家人表示，奥巴马帮忙付了殡葬费，并发来吊唁信，但他没有现身，而是去打高尔夫球了。
Every complicated family is complicated in its own way. The Obamas, in that sense, are ordinary. But the natural drift that has occurred within the family — already separated by oceans and languages — is exacerbated by politics.
每一个关系复杂的家庭都有自己的麻烦事。从这个意义上来说，奥巴马家族也是普通人家。但这个家族的内部关系因为距离和语言产生了疏离，政治致使这种疏离进一步加剧。
“He leads his life, and I lead my life,” said Mr. Obama’s half brother Malik Obama, who flew in for the wake and spoke emotionally about Ms. Onyango, his aunt, who was 61. He said he “wouldn’t say” he and the president had stayed close. “Because even my other brothers and sisters, they are all over the place,” Malik Obama added. “Right now, I would say that things have changed.”
奥巴马同父异母的哥哥马利克·奥巴马(Malik Obama)说，“他过他的日子，我过我的日子。”马利克乘飞机前来为姑妈守灵，他提到61岁的姑妈奥尼扬戈时非常激动。他表示，他“不会说”自己和奥巴马总统保持了亲密关系。“因为就连我的其他兄弟姐妹也散落各地，”马利克·奥巴马说，“现在，我觉得情况变了。”
As president, Mr. Obama has kept his distance from, and even failed to acknowledge, members of this eclectic clan. In the time-honored tradition of eccentric presidential relatives, the assorted Obamas have faced deportation and drunken-driving charges, started Obama-branded foundations and written memoirs.
作为总统，奥巴马一直与这个成分复杂的家族的成员保持距离，甚至都没承认与其中一些人的亲属关系。在有关总统古怪亲属的悠久传说中，不同的奥巴马家族成员曾面临被驱逐出境，遭到醉驾指控，创立了以奥巴马名字命名的基金会，撰写过回忆录。
But they also made for a powerful element of the president’s Kansas-meets-Kenya narrative as a candidate who could connect different worlds. A delegation of African relatives flew in for Mr. Obama’s inauguration in 2009 and received royal treatment. An aunt beamed when the first couple admired her traditional dress on the platform, brothers and uncles partied at special balls and the whole family proudly posed with the new president after he led them on a tour of the White House.
奥巴马当年是一名能够连接不同世界的候选人，他的一生讲述了一个堪萨斯遇上肯尼亚的故事，而这些亲属是其中的重要元素。2009年，非洲亲属代表团乘飞机前去参加奥巴马的就职典礼，受到了王室般的礼遇。当第一夫妇在台上称赞一位姑妈的传统服饰时，这位姑妈笑容满面。他的兄弟们和叔伯们参加了一些特别的舞会。整个家族在奥巴马的带领下参观了白宫，并在此后骄傲地与这位新总统合影。
Now, as the president has embraced the family more culturally near to him — the half sister on his mother’s side with whom he remained close, the Ivy League-educated brother-in-law he bonds with over basketball, the mother-in-law who lives upstairs — the Obamas are often relegated to the farther branches of his family tree.
如今，由于奥巴马已经热情接纳了在文化上与他比较接近的亲属——与他关系亲密的同母异父的妹妹，经常与他打篮球且曾就读于常春藤盟校(Ivy League)的妹夫，以及住在楼上的岳母，他与父亲一边的亲属有所疏远。
In the White House, officials who have seen the president’s reaction to his African relatives say that he is unfairly expected to answer for people with whom he has little relationship. “This is the president’s personal family, so we are not going to have any comment,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman.
在白宫，那些看到总统对其非洲亲属的反应的官员们表示，让奥巴马为他们的言行作出解释是不公平的，因为他们之间甚少来往。白宫发言人埃里克·舒尔茨(Eric Schultz)说，“这是总统的家庭私事，我们不会发表评论。”
Today, many are doing their own things, although often that has something to do with their connection to Mr. Obama. Malik Obama, the president’s half brother and best man at his wedding, now splits his time between Nairobi and Maryland and runs the Barack H. Obama Foundation.
如今，很多亲属都有自己的事业，尽管这些事务通常都与他们与奥巴马的亲属关系有关联。奥巴马同父异母的哥哥、伴郎马利克·奥巴马目前在内罗毕和马里兰两地奔忙，经营着贝拉克·H·奥巴马基金会(Barack H. Obama Foundation)。
“What can I say? It’s not doing as well as I would like for it to do,” said Malik Obama, 54, who has raised money for the charity from friends in Yemen and Libya, where he was supportive of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. “I’m committed to it, and the reason for setting it up was the memory of my old man.”
“我能说什么？ 基金会的发展没有我设想的那么好，”54岁的马利克·奥巴马说。“我致力于基金会的发展，成立基金会是为了纪念我的老爸。”马利克·奥巴马通过也门及利比亚的朋友为该慈善机构筹集资金，他是穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)的支持者。
For years, Malik Obama has been promoting his book, “Barack Obama Sr.: The Rise and Life of a True African Scholar.” But he is hardly the only Obama relative with a book to sell.
多年来，马利克·奥巴马一直在推广自己的书《老贝拉克·奥巴马：一名非洲学者的成功与生活》(Barack Obama Sr.: The Rise and Life of a True African Scholar)。但他不是奥巴马亲属中唯一出书的人。
A younger half brother of the president, George, published “Homeland: An Extraordinary Story of Hope and Survival.” A half sister, Auma, the African relative closest to the president, wrote a memoir, “And Then Life Happens,” and was featured in the documentary “The Education of Auma Obama.” (She declined to comment through her publicist.) Her former husband, Ian Manners, who is white and has met the president several times, is finishing a book about corruption in Kenya with the working title “Our Brother, Mr. President.” He also unsuccessfully ran for the British Parliament in an Obama-inspired campaign.
奥巴马同父异母的弟弟乔治(Geroge)出版了《家乡：一个有关希望与生存的非凡故事》(Homeland: An Extraordinary Story of Hope and Survival)。 奥巴马同父异母的姐姐奥玛(Auma)撰写了回忆录《生命就此展开》(And Then Life Happens)，并出演了纪录片《奥玛·奥巴马的教育》(The Education of Auma Obama)，奥玛是与奥巴马关系最密切的非洲亲属。奥玛的白人前夫伊恩·曼纳斯 (Ian Manners)与奥巴马见过几次面，他将出版一本有关肯尼亚腐败情况的书籍，书名暂定为《我们的兄长，奥巴马》(Our Brother, Mr. President)。他曾受到奥巴马的激励，竞选英国议会席位，但没有成功。
Ms. Onyango also published a memoir, “Tears of Abuse.” She met Mr. Obama in 1988, during his first trip to Kenya, and warned him about losing track of their African family.
奥尼扬戈也出版了回忆录，书名是《凌辱的眼泪》(Tears of Abuse)。1988年，她在奥巴马第一次到访肯尼亚时见到了他，当时曾提醒他不要远离自己的非洲家族。
In 2000, Ms. Onyango moved to the United States on a valid visa, and in 2001, when Mr. Obama was an Illinois state senator, she helped take care of his newborn daughter, Sasha, and did household chores for the family in Chicago, according to Obama family members. But she stayed illegally after unsuccessfully seeking asylum. When reporters found her in Boston public housing during the 2008 election, Mr. Obama’s aides said he did not know she was in the United States illegally and returned her $265 in campaign contributions.
2000年，奥尼扬戈利用有效签证来到美国。据奥巴马的亲属透露 ，2001年，当奥巴马担任伊利诺伊州参议员时，奥尼扬戈帮助照看了奥巴马刚出生的女儿萨莎(Sasha)，并在芝加哥为奥巴马家处理家务琐事。在寻求政治避难失败后，奥尼扬戈非法滞留美国。在2008年竞选期间，当记者发现她住在波士顿的公共住房里时，奥巴马的助手表示，奥巴马不知道她非法滞留美国，并退还了她265美元（约合1655元人民币）的竞选捐款。
In 2010, she received asylum and celebrated by telling an interviewer: “President Obama, I’m his aunt. If he does a wrong thing, I’m the only person on earth allowed to pinch his ears and smack him.”
2010年，奥尼扬戈获得庇护许可，并向一名面试官炫耀称，“我是奥巴马总统的姑妈。如果他做了错事，我是世界上唯一有权揪他耳朵，扇他的人。”
Back in 1988, connecting to his African family was critical to Mr. Obama’s path to self-discovery and ultimately to his political ambitions.
1988年与非洲家族的联系对奥巴马的自我发现历程，以及最终产生政治雄心具有重要意义。
In his memoir, “Dreams From My Father,” he meditated on Auntie Zeituni’s use of the term “getting lost” to describe a family member who had lost touch. The family’s principal example at the time was the president’s uncle, Onyango Obama, known as Omar, who moved as a young man to Boston and went on to live there illegally for decades. In 2011, he was arrested in nearby Framingham on drunken-driving charges and told the booking officer, “I think I will call the White House.”
奥巴马在回忆录《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)中，对姑妈泽伊图妮用“迷失”来描述一名失去联系的家庭成员进行了思考。当时，奥巴马家族的主要相关例子就是奥巴马的叔叔奥尼扬戈·奥巴马(Onyango Obama)，也被叫做奥马尔(Omar)的他在年轻时来到了波士顿，并在那儿非法居住了几十年。2011年，他在邻近城镇弗莱明汉因为醉驾指控被逮捕，他告诉记录人员，“我想，我会给白宫打个电话。”
With an election on the horizon, the White House seemed to want nothing to do with the uncle, who also had an outstanding deportation order. White House officials said they had no record of any meeting between the president and his uncle, but in court last December, Omar Obama said his nephew had stayed with him for weeks in Cambridge before starting Harvard Law School in 1988.
随着大选临近，白宫似乎不想和这位叔叔有任何瓜葛，后者身上也背着未执行的驱逐令。白宫官员表示，没有任何记录显示总统曾和他的这位叔叔见过面，不过，去年9月，他的这位名叫奥马尔·奥巴马(Omar Obama)的叔叔在法庭上表示，在1988年入读哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)之前，侄子曾和他在坎布里奇共度了几周时间。
“It’s a good thing to let your nephew stay with you,” he said after the hearing, adding that in his family, “your brother’s kids are your kids as well.”
他在听证结束后说，“让侄子和自己待在一块是件好事，”还说在自己的家族中，“我兄弟的孩子就是我自己的孩子。”
Mr. Schultz acknowledged awkwardly at the time that the president did live with his uncle in the late 1980s, and “after that, they saw each other once every few months, but after law school they fell out of touch.” He added, “The president has not seen him in 20 years, has not spoken with him in 10.”
舒尔茨当时尴尬地承认，总统在上世纪80年代末确实曾和叔叔在一起生活，“那之后，他们每隔几个月就会见一次面，不过，总统离开法学院之后，两人就断绝了联系。”他还说，“总统已有20年没见他，有10年没和他说过话了。”
It was Omar Obama, a taciturn man who now works in a Framingham liquor store, who helped take care of Ms. Onyango in her last weeks. He arranged her wake and held a fund-raiser afterward to collect more money to send her body to Kenya. On a recent afternoon, as he disposed of a stray bottle in the liquor store parking lot, he declined to comment about his contact with the president, saying only, “You don’t know more about my family than I do.”
在奥尼扬戈弥留人世的最后几周里，是奥马尔·奥巴马在帮忙照顾她，这个沉默寡言的男人目前在弗莱明汉的一家酒行工作。他安排了守灵事宜，之后还帮忙召集了一次筹款活动，好凑够钱把她的遗体送回肯尼亚。最近的一个下午，奥马尔拒绝评论他和总统之间的联络情况，当时他正在酒行的停车场里处理一只被丢弃的酒瓶，他只是说，“你对我的家族的了解，不会比我多。”
Another of the president’s uncles, Said Obama, said in an interview from Kenya that he did not resent the president for staying away. “He can choose to get along with those people who he feels comfortable with,” he said.
总统的另一位叔叔赛义德·奥巴马(Said Obama)在肯尼亚接受采访时说，他并不因为总统和家族中人保持距离而怨恨他。他说，“他可以选择和那些让他感觉自在的家人待在一块。”
The people the president feels at home with include Maya Soetoro-Ng, who is the daughter of his mother and her second husband, an Indonesian man. He is considerably less close to another half sibling with a foot in that part of the world.
让总统感觉自在的家人包括玛雅·苏托洛-吴(Maya Soetoro-Ng)，她是奥巴马母亲和第二任丈夫的女儿，她的第二任丈夫是印度尼西亚人。奥巴马和另一名同父异母的兄弟的关系要淡薄的多，后者也与那个地区有着一定的关联。