ATLANTA — President Obama on Tuesday challenged world powers to accelerate the global response to the Ebola outbreak that is ravaging West Africa, warning that unless health care workers, medical equipment and treatment centers were swiftly deployed, the disease could take hundreds of thousands of lives.
亚特兰大——美国总统奥巴马周二敦促世界大国加快对于肆虐西非的埃博拉疫情的反应速度，并警告说如果医护人员、医疗设备及治疗中心不被迅速部署，这种疾病将夺去数以万计的生命。
“This epidemic is going to get worse before it gets better,” Mr. Obama said here at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, where he met with doctors who had just returned from West Africa. But “right now, the world still has the opportunity to save lives,” he said.
“这场疫情将在它开始好转之前变得更糟，”奥巴马在美国疾病控制与预防中心说。他在这里会见了刚从西非返回的医生。但“现在，这个世界还有机会拯救生命”，他说。
The president will go beyond the 25-bed portable hospital that Pentagon officials said they would establish in Liberia, one of the three West African countries ravaged by the disease, administration officials said. Mr. Obama will offer help to President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia in the construction of as many as 17 Ebola treatment centers in the region, with about 1,700 treatment beds.
政府官员说，除了五角大楼官员所说的将在利比里亚修建的拥有25张床位的野战医院外，总统将提供更多的东西。利比里亚是遭受疾病蹂躏的三个西非国家之一。奥巴马将向利比里亚总统埃伦·约翰逊·瑟利夫(Ellen Johnson Sirleaf)提供帮助，在该地区建设最多17个埃博拉病毒治疗中心，共有大约1700张病床。
Senior administration officials said Monday night that the Department of Defense would open a joint command operation in Monrovia, Liberia, to coordinate the international effort to combat the disease. The military will also provide engineers to help construct the additional treatment facilities and will send enough people to train up to 500 health care workers a week to deal with the crisis.
美国政府高级官员周一晚间表示，国防部将在利比里亚首都蒙罗维亚开展一项联合指挥行动，以协调对抗疾病的国际努力。军方还将派工程师协助建造更多的治疗设施，并将派出足够的人员每周培训多至500名医护人员以应对危机。
Officials said the military expected to send as many as 3,000 people to Africa to take charge of responding to the Ebola outbreak.
官员说，军方预计派往非洲的人数可达3000人，他们将担负应对埃博拉疫情的责任。
“We all recognize that this is such an extraordinary, serious epidemic,” a senior official told reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity ahead of Mr. Obama’s public remarks on Tuesday. The efforts should turn the tide from a high-transmission epidemic that continues to grow every day, other officials said.
“我们都意识到疫情异乎寻常地严重，”一位高级官员对记者说，他要求不具名，因为这是在奥巴马周二发表公开讲话之前。其他官员表示，新的努力应该能扭转疫情快速扩大的局面，目前疫情每日持续增长。
The White House plan would increase the number of doctors and other health care workers being sent to West Africa from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other American agencies, officials said. 
官员说，白宫的计划将增加从美国疾病控制与预防中心和其他机构派往西非的医生和其他卫生保健人员的数量。
The American government will also provide 400,000 Ebola home health and treatment kits to Liberia, as well as tens of thousands of kits intended to test whether people have the disease. The Pentagon will provide some logistical equipment for health workers going to West Africa and what administration officials described as “command and control” organizational assistance on how to coordinate the overall relief work. The Army Corps of Engineers is expected to be part of the Defense Department effort.
美国政府还将向利比里亚提供40万套针对埃博拉病毒的成套家庭保健和治疗用品，以及上万个用来检测人们是否感染病毒的成套用具。五角大楼将为前往西非的卫生工作者提供一些后勤装备，以及在协调整体援助工作上提供政府官员称之为“指挥和控制”的组织协助。陆军工程兵团预计将承担国防部这项工作的部分任务。
Administration officials did not say how soon the 17 treatment centers would be built in Liberia; officials there, as well as international aid officials, have said that 1,000 beds are needed in Liberia in the next week alone to contain a disease that has been spreading exponentially.
政府官员没有说这17个治疗中心什么时候能在利比里亚建成；当地官员和国际援助官员曾表示，为了遏制疾病的快速扩散，利比里亚需要的病床数仅在下周就可达到1000张。
Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease and public health expert at Vanderbilt University, praised the plan, calling it a “major commitment,” and said it was more extensive than he had expected.
范德比尔特大学(Vanderbilt University)传染病和公共卫生专家威廉·夏夫纳博士(Dr. William Schaffner)对该计划表示称赞，称其为一个“重大的承诺”，并表示计划比他想象的更广泛。
“It seems coordinated and coherent,” Dr. Schaffner said. He added that “the real core” was the Defense Department’s logistical support “because the heart of any kind of epidemic containment concept is getting the goods to the right place, putting up the institution.”
夏夫纳说，“计划看来很协调且有条理。”他补充说，美国国防部提供的后勤保障是“真正的核心，因为任何遏制疫情方法的核心是将物品运送到正确的地点，设立制度”。
Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, said the plan was an important first step, “but it is clearly not enough.” The focus on Liberia, he said, is too limited, and more help should be extended to Sierra Leone and Guinea, the other countries at the center of the worst Ebola outbreak ever recorded.
明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)传染病研究和政策中心主任迈克尔·T·奥斯特霍尔姆(Michael T. Osterholm)表示，这个计划是重要的第一步，“但显然还不够”。他说，只在利比里亚采取行动远远不够，还应该向塞拉利昂和几内亚提供更多的帮助，这两国家也在经历着有史以来最严重的埃博拉病毒爆发。
“We should see all of West Africa now as one big outbreak,” Dr. Osterholm said. “It’s very clear we have to deal with all the areas with Ebola. If the U.S. is not able or not going to do it, that’s all the more reason to say the rest of the world has to do it.”
奥斯特霍尔姆说，“我们目前应该把整个西非作为一场大爆发来对待。非常明显，我们必须对付所有爆发了埃博拉的地区。如果美国不能或不打算对付所有爆发的话，那就更有理由说，世界其他国家必须来做这件事。”
Dr. Jack Chow, a professor of global health at Carnegie Mellon University, also warned that “the virus does not recognize national borders and will continue to spread where health care is inadequate.”
卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)全球卫生教授周启康博士(Dr. Jack Chow)也警告说，“病毒不认国界，将在医疗条件不充足的地区继续蔓延。”
Top White House aides on Monday rejected criticism from African officials, doctors and representatives from aid groups who said the United States had been slow to act in the face of the disease. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said the government, including the C.D.C., had committed more than $100 million since the outbreak started in the early spring.
白宫高级幕僚周一否认了来自非洲官员、以及援助团体代表和医生的批评，他们指责美国在疾病面前行动缓慢。白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)表示，包括疾病预防与控制中心在内的政府部门，在疾病于今年早春爆发时，就已经承诺提供1亿美元（约合6.2亿元人民币）的援助。
“The C.D.C. has responded commensurate to the seriousness” of the crisis, Mr. Earnest told reporters ahead of a trip Mr. Obama has planned to the agency’s headquarters in Atlanta on Tuesday afternoon. Mr. Earnest called the response “among the largest deployments of C.D.C. personnel ever.”
“疾病预防与控制中心的响应与危机的严重性相称，”欧内斯特在奥巴马计划在周二前往该机构设在亚特兰大的总部之前，对记者说。欧内斯特称响应是“疾病预防与控制中心迄今派出人员最多的一次”。
Senior administration officials conceded that the effort must expand further as the outbreak threatens to spread in Africa and, potentially, beyond the continent. Officials said medical experts in the government were genuinely worried about the possibility of a mutation that could turn the virus into a more contagious sickness that could threaten the United States.
美国政府高级官员承认，随着疫情威胁将蔓延到非洲、甚至可能是非洲以外的地区，必须进一步扩大努力。官员们说，政府的医学专家对一种可能性的确很担心，既病毒会发生突变，导致疾病的传染性增加，那将可能威胁美国。
The World Health Organization has issued a dire Ebola warning for Liberia, saying that the number of afflicted patients was increasing exponentially and that all new treatment facilities were overwhelmed, “pointing to a large but previously invisible caseload.” The description of the crisis in Liberia suggested an even more chaotic situation there than had been thought.
世界卫生组织已向利比里亚发出埃博拉病毒的严重警告，称被感染的患者呈指数级增长，所有新设立的治疗设施不堪重负，“预示着此前未曾见过的巨大工作量”。对利比里亚危机的这一描述，暗示着比过去认为的更加混乱的局面。
Ms. Johnson Sirleaf, who has implored Mr. Obama to do more to help her country battle the disease, traveled over the weekend through Monrovia, the Liberian capital, with the United States ambassador, Deborah R. Malac.
约翰逊·瑟利夫曾呼吁奥巴马采取更多行动来帮助她的国家，她与美国大使黛博拉·R·马拉克(Deborah R. Malac)一起在周末视察了利比里亚首都蒙罗维亚。
“What is needed is on a scale that is unprecedented,” a senior administration official said in an interview, speaking on the condition of anonymity because she was not allowed by the White House to talk on the record ahead of Mr. Obama’s announcement.
“所需援助的规模是前所未有的，”政府一位高级官员在接受采访时说，她要求不具名，因为白宫不允许官员在奥巴马宣布之前做公开评论。