UNITED NATIONS — President Obama, emboldened by his use of executive powers to fight climate change at home, challenged China on Tuesday to make the same effort to reduce its greenhouse-gas emissions and join a worldwide campaign to curb global warming.
联合国——美国总统奥巴马由于自己在国内使用行政权力应对气候变化，变得更有信心，他在周二敦促中国在减少温室气体排放上作出同样的努力，加入到遏制全球变暖的世界范围行动中来。
Declaring that the United States and China — the world’s two largest economies and largest polluters — bear a “special responsibility to lead,” Mr. Obama said, “That’s what big nations have to do.”
美国和中国是世界上两个最大的经济体，也是两个最大的污染国，奥巴马宣布中美两国承担着“领导全球的特殊责任”，他说，“这是大国必须做的。”
The president’s remarks at the United Nations Climate Summit, delivered in a packed chamber of the General Assembly, were broadly aimed at marshaling more than 100 world leaders to confront climate change. But his words were directly focused on putting the onus on China, an essential partner of the United States if a global climate treaty is to be negotiated by 2015.
总统在联合国气候峰会上的讲话是在座无虚席的全体会议会场发表的，其广泛目标是争取100多个国家领导人来共同应对气候变化。但他的话的直接目的是让中国承担义务，如果要在2015完成全球气候条约谈判的话，中国是美国的一个必不可少的合作伙伴。
Unless Beijing and Washington can resolve their differences, climate experts said, few other countries will agree to the treaty and it will most likely founder.
气候专家说，除非北京和华盛顿能消除分歧，没有几个国家会同意签署条约，因为它很可能会失败。
Mr. Obama made it clear that after taking the political risks in June of proposing a far-reaching Environmental Protection Agency regulation to force American power plants to curb their carbon emissions, he now expected the Chinese to do likewise.
奥巴马明确表示，他在6月份冒着政治风险，在环境保护署提出一项影响深远的法规，迫使美国的发电厂限制碳排放。现在，他指望中国也这样做。
There were indications that China might be ready with its own plan, although many experts say they will be skeptical until Chinese officials reveal the details.
有迹象表明，中国可能已准备好了自己的方案，尽管许多专家表示，在中国政府官员公布细节之前，他们将保持怀疑态度。
But a senior Chinese official sent in Mr. Xi’s place said his country would try to reach a peak level of carbon emissions “as early as possible.” That suggested that the Chinese government, struggling with air pollution so extreme that it has threatened economic growth, regularly kept millions of children indoors, was determined to show faster progress in curbing emissions.
但是，代表习近平出席峰会的一位中国高级官员表示，中国将争取碳排放总量“尽早”达到峰值。这表明中国政府在控制排放上显示了要取得更快进步的决心，中国政府正在对付极为严重的空气污染问题，污染已经威胁到经济增长，经常让数以百万计的儿童不能在室外活动。
“As a responsible major developing country, China will make an even greater effort to address climate change and take on international responsibilities that are commensurate with our national conditions,” said the official, Vice Prime Minister Zhang Gaoli, who addressed the chamber after Mr. Obama.
“作为一个负责任的发展中大国，今后中国将以更大力度应对气候变化，主动承担与自身国情相符的国际义务。”出席峰会的国务院副总理张高丽说，他在奥巴马之后作了大会发言。
The president and Mr. Zhang met briefly at the summit meeting on Tuesday, before Mr. Obama’s speech. In his remarks, Mr. Obama said he had pressed Mr. Zhang on the urgency for both countries to take the lead, and noted that he and the Chinese president had already reached an accord to cut the use of hydrofluorocarbons, a potent category of greenhouse gases.
在讲话之前，奥巴马与张高丽在周二举行了短暂的首脑会议。奥巴马在讲话中说，他对张高丽强调了中美两国需要带头的紧迫性，并指出，他与中国的国家主席已经就减少使用氢氟碳化物达成了一项协议，氢氟碳化物属于有强效的温室气体类。
The United States, he said, would meet a pledge to reduce its carbon emissions by 17 percent, from 2005 levels, by 2020 — a goal that is in large part expected to be met through the proposed E.P.A. regulation. Now, Mr. Obama said, the United States is preparing ambitious new targets to cut emissions further by 2050, with specifics to be made public ahead of a climate summit meeting in Paris in 2015. Other nations are expected to submit their own plans.
奥巴马说，美国将在2020年实现二氧化碳排放量从2005年的水平降低17％的承诺，这个目标预计主要将靠环境保护署拟定的法规来实现。奥巴马现在说，美国正在制定雄心勃勃的新目标，到2050年将进一步削减温室气体的排放，具体内容将在2015年的巴黎气候峰会之前公诸于众。其他国家预计也将提交自己的方案。
With its surging use of coal, China has overtaken the United States as the world’s largest greenhouse gas polluter. But in the past year, as thousands of Chinese have protested the reliance on coal and its contribution to some of the world’s dirtiest air, Chinese authorities have signaled that they intend to adopt policies to reduce the use of coal.
由于煤炭使用量激增，中国已超过美国成为世界上最大的温室气体排放国。但在过去的一年中，成千上万的中国人已开始抗议对煤的依赖、以及煤对制造世界上最肮脏的空气的贡献，中国政府已表示，他们要制定政策，以减少煤的使用。
“We’ve been working hard on this plan, looking at what kind of changes we will make to industry,” Li Junfeng, director general of China’s National Center for Climate Change Strategy, said in an interview.
国家应对气候变化战略研究和国际合作中心主任李俊峰在接受采访时说，“我们一直在努力制定这个计划，探索我们能让工业届发生哪些变化。”
Mr. Li said that his center had prepared “multiple choice” options for a proposed climate plan, and that Beijing would choose one to put forth based on the perceived stringency of the American plan for emissions cuts by 2050.
李俊峰说，该中心为拟议中的气候方案准备了“多种选择”，北京将根据其认为的美国2050年减排方案的严格程度，从中选择一种。
In recent years, the Chinese government has sent other signals about addressing carbon pollution, some of them encouraging to environmental experts. It has created seven regional cap-and-trade plans aimed at cutting carbon pollution from coal plants, and in August, a Chinese government official suggested that China was exploring the possibility of a national cap-and-trade plan.
近年来，中国政府已发出要解决碳污染问题的其他信号，其中一些让环保专家受到鼓舞。为了减少燃煤电厂的碳污染，中国在7个省市开展了碳排放权交易试点计划，一位中国政府官员在八月表示，中国正在探索在全国开展碳排放权交易的可能性。
“Five years ago, it was almost unimaginable to discuss China putting a cap on carbon, but now that is happening,” said Lo Sze Ping, chief executive officer of the World Wildlife Fund’s office in Beijing. “Chinese leaders have seen that it is imperative to move toward a low-carbon economy.”
世界自然基金会中国总干事卢思骋说，“讨论中国制定碳排放上限的问题，五年前几乎不可想象，而现在这正在发生。中国领导人已经看到，走向低碳经济是一条必由之路。”
The modest Chinese steps are ahead of some other major polluters who are unlikely to submit emission-cuts plans ahead of 2015. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia remains an outspoken skeptic of climate-change science, and voters in Australia recently repealed a national carbon tax. India, the world’s third-largest carbon polluter, has so far resisted outside pressure to cut its coal use, although under its new prime minister, Narendra Modi, it has begun researching a plan. Without new climate policies, India is projected to surge ahead of the United States and China in carbon emissions in coming years.
中国适度的减排步骤，相对一些其他主要污染国来说，仍属领先，那些国家不大可能会在2015年前提交减排方案。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京对气候变化科学仍是一位直言不讳的怀疑者，澳大利亚的选民最近投票废除了国内的碳税。印度是世界第三大碳排放国，曾一直抵制外界对其施加的削减煤炭使用的压力，但在新总理纳伦德拉·莫迪的领导下，印度已开始研究减排计划。如果没有新的气候政策，印度的碳排放量预计将在未来几年中超过美国和中国。