WASHINGTON — President Obama said he was weighing providing lethal weapons to Ukraine to help Kiev defend against Russia’s aggression if diplomatic efforts fail to defuse the tensions there, even as he said the United States remained united with Europe in maintaining sanctions against Moscow.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统称，如果外交上的努力无法化解乌克兰的紧张局势，他将考虑向该国提供杀伤性武器，从而帮助基辅抵抗俄罗斯的侵犯。但他同时也表示，美国仍然与欧洲保持着一致立场，将继续对莫斯科实施制裁。
“The prospect for a military solution to this problem has always been low,” Mr. Obama said, given the extraordinarily powerful military that is at the disposal of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and the length of Russia’s border with Ukraine.
奥巴马表示，考虑到俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)可以动用异常强大的军事实力，以及俄罗斯与乌克兰边界线的长度，“在这一问题上采用军事解决方案的可能性一直很低。”
Nevertheless, at a joint news conference with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany at the White House Monday, the president said it was clear a set of steep sanctions against Russia “has not yet dissuaded Mr. Putin from following the course that he is on.” He said that had prompted him to ask his team to “look at all options,” including providing an array of defensive weapons to bolster Ukraine’s forces.
不过，周一在白宫与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)举行联合新闻发布会时，奥巴马称，显然，针对俄罗斯的一系列严厉的制裁措施“尚未让普京放弃他所选择的道路”。奥巴马还说，因此，他要求自己的团队“审视所有选项”，包括提供一系列防御武器来增援乌克兰军队。
“I have not made a decision about that yet,” Mr. Obama said.
“在这一方面，我还没有做出决定，”奥巴马说。
Most European countries, including Germany and France, oppose sending arms, arguing that doing so would only make the conflict worse.
包括德国和法国在内的多数欧洲国家都反对向乌克兰提供武器。它们认为，这样做只会令冲突进一步加剧。
“We continue to pursue a diplomatic solution, although we have suffered a lot of setbacks,” Ms. Merkel said. “I’ve always said I don’t see a military solution to this conflict.”
“我们仍在寻求外交解决方案，虽然我们遭遇了许多挫折，”默克尔说。“我一直在说，我不认为我们会用军事方案来解决这场冲突。”
The issue has threatened to cleave what has until now been a united front among the United States and its European allies over how to respond to the Ukrainian conflict, which has been stoked by a steady supply of weapons and soldiers from Russia.
这一问题可能会打破迄今为止美国及其欧洲盟友在如何应对乌克兰冲突问题上形成的统一战线。由于俄罗斯持续输送的武器和士兵，这场冲突得以加剧。
Many European capitals share Washington’s distrust of Mr. Putin, but continue to hope that the pressure of economic sanctions will lead him to accept some sort of settlement.
许多欧洲国家和美国一样，都不信任普京，但它们仍然希望经济制裁的压力会促使他接受某种和解方案。
Despite their possible differences on weapons, Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel worked to project a unified front.
尽管在武器问题上可能存在分歧，但奥巴马和默克尔均努力向外界投射出统一战线的形象。
“Russian aggression has only reinforced the unity between the United States, Germany and other European allies,” the president said. “There’s going to continue to be a strong, unified response between the United States and Europe — that’s not going to change.”
“俄罗斯的侵犯行为适得其反地强化了美国、德国和其他欧洲盟友的团结，”奥巴马表示。“美国和欧洲之间将继续做出一致的强势回应——这一点不会改变。”
The two leaders spoke after European foreign ministers agreed to postpone imposing a new round of sanctions against Russia, hoping to avert a rift with the United States over sending arms and to nudge forward so far fruitless talks with Moscow.
两位领导人进行对话之前，欧洲各国外长已经同意推迟实施对俄罗斯的新一轮制裁。此举旨在消除与美国在武器输送问题上的分歧，并且尽量推进与莫斯科进行的迄今为止并无成果的谈判。
Diplomats who attended Monday’s meeting of foreign ministers in Brussels said that Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, had proposed delaying new sanctions for a few days after a request for a pause from the leadership in Kiev.
周一在布鲁塞尔参加了外长会议的外交官员们称，在基辅的领导层要求暂停推进对莫斯科的新制裁之后，欧盟的外交政策负责人费德丽卡·莫盖里尼(Federica Mogherini)提出了将新的制裁推迟几天的建议。
Ukraine had previously lobbied Europe to take tough action against Moscow, but apparently now worries that further moves might jeopardize efforts for a truce with rapidly advancing pro-Russian rebels. Such an accord could be reached at a possible meeting later this week among the leaders of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine.
乌克兰此前曾劝说欧洲对莫斯科采取严厉行动，但它现在似乎担心，进一步的举动可能会破坏与正在快速推进的亲俄叛军之间达成休战的努力。休战协议可能会在本周晚些时候召开的一个会议上达成，与会者将包括法国、德国、俄罗斯和乌克兰的领导人。
European governments decided to expand the list of sanctioned individuals who are facing asset freezes and travel bans after pro-Russian rebels mounted a rocket attack late last month on the port city of Mariupol, killing about 30 Ukrainian civilians.
亲俄叛军在上个月底对港口城市马里乌波尔发动了一次火箭弹袭击，导致约30名乌克兰平民死亡。欧洲各国政府随后决定扩大被制裁个人的名单，而这些人将面临资产冻结和旅行禁令。
The sanctions apply currently to more than 130 Russians and Ukrainian separatist leaders backed by Russia.
制裁措施目前适用于130多名俄罗斯人和受到俄罗斯支持的乌克兰分裂派领导人。
The leaders of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine have tentatively agreed to meet on Wednesday in Minsk, the capital of Belarus. But it was unclear on Monday whether that meeting would actually take place.
法国、德国、俄罗斯和乌克兰领导人已经初步同意周三在白俄罗斯首都明斯克会面。不过，本周一的时候，仍不清楚会议是否真的会举行。
Speaking to reporters early Monday in Brussels, the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, also expressed uncertainty over what he called the “possible summit in Minsk.”
周一早上在布鲁塞尔接受记者采访时，德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)也表达了对他所说的“可能在明斯克举行的峰会”的不确定。