WASHINGTON — The White House is wrestling with a series of hurdles in preparation for military operations in Syria, including how to train and equip a viable ground force and intervene without aiding President Bashar al-Assad, people briefed on the plans said Tuesday.
华盛顿——白宫正在步履维艰地穿越重重阻碍，为在叙利亚开展军事行动做准备，其中包括如何训练和装备一支可行的地面部队，如何在不为总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)提供帮助的情况下进行军事干预，据了解相关计划的人士本周二表示。
As President Obama cobbles together a coalition of countries to fight the Sunni militant group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, he is also encountering tensions from would-be partners like Turkey and Saudi Arabia, which are reluctant to battle ISIS too publicly.
奥巴马总统正在努力组建一个多国联盟，以对抗逊尼派激进组织伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），在这个过程中，他遇到了来自一些潜在合作伙伴国的阻力，比如土耳其和沙特阿拉伯，就不愿意太过公开地和ISIS进行斗争。
In a prime-time address on Wednesday evening, Mr. Obama is to explain to Americans his strategy for “degrading and ultimately destroying the terrorist group,” the White House said in a statement. The people briefed on the president’s plans described a long-term campaign far more complex than the targeted strikes the United States has used against Al Qaeda in Yemen, Pakistan and elsewhere.
白宫发表的一份声明称，奥巴马将在本周三晚上的黄金时间段发表讲话，向美国人解释其“瓦解并最终剿灭恐怖组织”的战略。据了解该策略的人士描述，这是一个长期行动，其复杂程度远远超过了美国之前在也门、巴基斯坦等地对付基地组织(Al Qaeda)的那种精准打击。
On Tuesday, the president briefed Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and the Senate about his plans. Mr. Obama told them he believed he had the authority needed to order an expanded operation, though he would “welcome action by the Congress that would aid the overall effort,” the White House statement said.
本周二，奥巴马总统向众议院和参议院的共和党和民主党领导人介绍了自己的计划。奥巴马告诉他们，他相信自己有权扩大军事行动，但他“欢迎国会采取行动，为整个计划提供帮助”，白宫的声明中说。
But Congress is divided on the need for a vote on military action before the midterm elections, and both sides appeared to be searching for a way to enlist congressional support without an explicit authorization of force. One way under discussion would be for lawmakers to approve $500 million in funding to train and arm Syrian rebels who would fight ISIS. But the legislation has been languishing on Capitol Hill.
但对于是否需要在中期选举之前对军事行动进行表决，国会存在分歧，双方似乎都在寻找一种方式来争取国会的支持，而不是对使用武力的明确授权。正在讨论的一种做法是，国会批准5亿美元的资金，用来训练和武装那些会去抗击ISIS的叙利亚叛军。但相关立法在国会山渐渐没有了下文。
Mr. Obama’s speech to the nation, on the eve of the 13th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, is the culmination of weeks of anguished internal deliberations, followed by days of intense lobbying of allies by the president — at a NATO meeting in Wales, with Congress, and even over a three-hour dinner Monday night with members of the Democratic and Republican foreign-policy establishment.
奥巴马将在2001年9月11日恐怖袭击事件13周年纪念日的前夜，向全国发表讲话，这是一个持续数周的、令人苦闷的内部商议过程的结果；在商议结束后，总统又花了数天时间对盟友进行了积极游说——在威尔士举行的北约峰会上游说，对国会游说，甚至在本周一晚持续三个多小时的晚宴上，对民主党和共和党外交政策领域的权威人士进行游说。
The White House has been galvanized by the beheadings of two Americans, James Foley and Steven J. Sotloff, both journalists, by a masked ISIS fighter. The harrowing images, captured on video and circulated around the world, have turned American public opinion in favor of military action against the militants, recent polls show, and appear to have moved a president who had long resisted military engagement in Syria
两名美国记者，詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)和史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)，被ISIS的蒙面武装分子斩首，令白宫备受刺激。近期民调显示，斩首视频显示的悲惨画面在全球各地传播，已经让美国公众舆论转而赞成针对这些武装分子的军事行动；并且这也似乎令奥巴马改变了心意，他此前曾长期反对军事干预叙利亚局势。
But Mr. Obama is encountering complications as he works to assemble support at home and a coalition abroad. The Turkish government, for example, has been fearful of an aggressive retaliation against ISIS because of concerns that the group would harm the 49 Turkish citizens it is holding, including its consul general, after ISIS raided the Turkish consulate in the Iraqi city of Mosul.
但奥巴马在国内争取支持，在国外组建联盟的努力，遭遇到了一些障碍。例如，土耳其政府担心，如果对ISIS采取积极的报复行动，该组织就会伤害其关押的49名土耳其公民，其中包括ISIS在袭击伊拉克摩苏尔市后俘获的土耳其总领事。
On Tuesday, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel met with Turkish leaders to discuss their contribution to the effort, but emerged with no concrete commitments. A Turkish official expressed concerns that weapons sent to Syrian rebels to fight ISIS could end up in the hands of Kurdish fighters whom Turkey regards as a terrorist group.
本周二，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)会见了土耳其领导人，讨论了他们能对联盟做出的贡献，但没有获得具体承诺。一位土耳其官员表示，他担心提供给叙利亚叛军的、用来与ISIS作战的武器，最终可能会落入库尔德武装分子手中，而后者被土耳其视为恐怖分子。
The White House is dispatching Secretary of State John Kerry to Saudi Arabia this week to enlist the Saudis, who have been a vital source of funding to groups opposing the Assad government. The Saudis, while supportive of the United States, worry that going to war with ISIS could provoke a backlash among Sunni extremists in its own population.
白宫本周将派遣国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)前往沙特阿拉伯，争取该国的支持，对于一些反对阿萨德政府的叛军而言，沙特是一个的重要资金来源。沙特虽然支持美国的立场，但却担心与ISIS开战，会引发本国逊尼派极端分子的激烈反应。
At the dinner on Monday, several participants said, Mr. Obama expressed confidence that, over time, a robust coalition would coalesce against ISIS. They said he presented a comprehensive plan that included military, diplomatic and ideological components, based on trying to counter the story line that ISIS has propagated in the Arab world.
在周一的晚宴上，一些与会者说，奥巴马表示，随着时间的推移，一个对抗ISIS的强大联盟将会形成，他对此抱有信心。他们说，他提出了一个很全面的计划，包括军事、外交和意识形态方面的组成部分，其基础是对ISIS在阿拉伯世界宣扬的理念的驳斥。
“The big picture is that this is going to be a very long-term proposition, that American leadership is necessary, and that this can’t turn into a U.S. vs. Sunni battle,” said one of the guests, Samuel R. Berger, who served as national security adviser to President Bill Clinton. “It has to be us helping the Sunnis battle the Sunni extremists.”
“大背景是，这是一个非常持久的主张，即美国的领导是必要的，而且这不会变成美国和逊尼派之间的斗争，”出席晚宴的塞缪尔·B·伯杰(Samuel R. Berger)说，他曾担任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统的国家安全顾问。“它必须是帮助逊尼派打击逊尼派极端分子。”
Another participant, Strobe Talbott, a former deputy secretary of state who is the president of the Brookings Institution, said, “He regards ISIS as a new phenomenon that requires not thinking about it as ‘some of them here, some of them there,’ but ‘wherever it is, to go after it.’ ”
另一位与会者，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)时期的副国务卿、现任布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)会长的斯特罗布·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)说，“他把ISIS看成是一个新状况，这个状况不应该被想成’这里有一些武装分子，那里也有一些’，而应该想成‘无论他们在哪里，我们都要紧追不舍。’”
Jane Harman, the president of the Woodrow Wilson Center, said she and other participants told Mr. Obama that he could order military action in Syria without fear of helping Mr. Assad, since ISIS was occupying ungoverned territory that the Assad government was unlikely to reconquer, even if airstrikes drove out the militants.
简·哈曼(Jane Harman)是伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)的主任，她说，自己和其他与会者告诉奥巴马，他可以下令在叙利亚采取军事行动，而不必担心帮了阿萨德的忙，因为ISIS占据的是无人控制的领土，即使空袭赶走了武装分子，阿萨德政府也不太可能夺回这些领土。
But Ms. Harman, a former Democratic representative from California, said she made a fervent case that Mr. Obama should obtain congressional authorization for any action. Her call was not picked up many of the Democrats currently serving in Congress.
哈曼曾是来自加州的民主党众议员，她也表示，对于任何行动，奥巴马都应获得国会授权，对此她给出了大量理由。但国会中的现任民主党议员很多并没有赞同她的说法。