WASHINGTON — President Obama said on Tuesday that he planned to withdraw the last combat troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2016, declaring that “it’s time to turn the page on a decade in which so much of our foreign policy was focused on the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.”
华盛顿——美国总统奥巴马周二表示，计划在2016年年底之前从阿富汗撤出所有作战部队，他说，“我们的外交政策10年来将太多注意力放在了阿富汗和伊拉克战争上，是时候把这一页翻过去了”。
Under the plan, outlined by Mr. Obama in the Rose Garden, the United States would leave 9,800 troops in Afghanistan after 2014, but cut that number by half in 2015. By the end of 2016, it would keep only a vestigial force to protect the embassy in Kabul and help the Afghans with military purchases and other security matters.
奥巴马在玫瑰花园简要介绍了他的计划。他说，2014年之后将有9800名美军留在阿富汗，这个数字到2015年将减至一半。到2016年底，美国将仅留下一支小型部队，保护喀布尔的美国大使馆，帮助阿富汗处理军事采购和其他安全事务。
Mr. Obama said the withdrawal of combat troops from Afghanistan would free up military resources for the United States to focus on an emerging set of terrorism threats in the Middle East and North Africa — a strategy he plans to articulate in a commencement address on Wednesday at the United States Military Academy at West Point.
奥巴马说，作战部队撤离阿富汗将释放美国的军事资源，使美国可以专注于中东和北非新出现的恐怖主义威胁——他打算周三在西点美国军事学院(United States Military Academy at West Point)毕业典礼上的演讲中阐述这个战略。
“Americans have learned that it’s harder to end wars than it is to begin them,” he said. “Yet this is how wars end in the 21st century.”
“美国已经懂得，结束战争比发动战争更难，”他说，“然而，在21世纪，战争就是以艰难的方式结束的。”
Despite Mr. Obama’s attempt to draw to a close more than a decade of American military engagement in Afghanistan, the United States will continue to have thousands of troops engaged in lethal counterterrorism operations for at least two more years. He also acknowledged that the United States will leave behind a mixed legacy.
尽管奥巴马试图结束美国10多年来对阿富汗的军事介入，在未来至少两年的时间里，仍将有数千或数万美军士兵参与到残酷的反恐行动中。他也承认，美国撤离阿富汗之后，将获得褒贬不一的评价。
“We have to recognize Afghanistan will not be a perfect place, and it is not America’s responsibility to make it one,” he said. “The future of Afghanistan must be decided by Afghans.”
“我们必须认识到，阿富汗不会完美无瑕，美国也没有责任把它变得完美。阿富汗的未来必须由阿富汗人自己决定。”
All of the American deployments hinge on the United States’ signing a security agreement with Afghanistan, which the administration has not yet been able to do.
美国的上述部署能否实施，取决于能否与阿富汗签署一项安全协议。而美国政府目前还没有做到这一点。
A senior American official said the residual force would include trainers and Special Operations forces to fight the remaining Qaeda loyalists, most of whom are believed to be scattered in the mountains and remote districts of eastern Afghanistan.
一名美国高级官员说，留守的部队将包括培训人员和特种作战部队(Special Operations Forces)，后者将与基地组织的残余势力作战，据信这些人多数分散在阿富汗东部的山区和偏远地区。
With both Afghan presidential candidates, who will face each other in a runoff, having pledged to sign a security deal with the United States, the official said the administration was now comfortable announcing a troop number. Officials had previously wanted to wait until the security deal was signed before making any announcement. During a surprise visit on Sunday to troops at Bagram Air Base, north of Kabul, Mr. Obama said he hoped for some kind of residual American presence. But the new timetable indicates that the president is still determined to wind down the war swiftly and shift America’s resources to fighting the threats in the Middle East and North Africa. There are currently about 32,000 American troops in the country, and military commanders had recommended leaving at least 10,000 after the formal end of the combat mission in 2014. The troops who remain will train Afghan security forces and support counterterrorism operations against the remnants of Al Qaeda, the official said. But from 2015 onward, they would be consolidated at the Bagram base and in Kabul.
这名官员说，由于将在决胜选举中对决的两个阿富汗总统候选人已经承诺与美国签署安全协议，美国政府现在可以坦然宣布驻军人数。官员们此前希望等到安全协议签署之后，再宣布任何相关消息。周日在对喀布尔北部巴格拉姆空军基地(Bagram Air Base)的突然访问中，奥巴马说，他希望留下一定数量的美军。但新的时间表意味着，奥巴马仍然下定决心迅速结束这场战争，把美国的资源转为用来打击中东和北非的威胁。目前美国在阿富汗大约驻守了3.2万军人，军事指挥官建议，在2014年战斗任务正式结束后，至少留下1万人。这名官员说，留守的军队将负责培训阿富汗的安全部队，并去支持针对基地组织残余势力的反恐行动。但从2015年开始，美国驻军将被整合至巴格拉姆基地和喀布尔两地。
The American troops will be supplemented by those of NATO countries, but the alliance members are likely to follow the American lead in withdrawing from Afghanistan by the end of 2016. That would leave Afghanistan’s security largely in the hands of the Afghans.
北约国家的军队将对美军进行支援，但联盟的成员国可能会效仿美国，在2016年年底之前从阿富汗撤军。此后，阿富汗的安全将基本上由阿富汗人自己负责。
“I think it’s ambitious,” said Michèle A. Flournoy, who served as under secretary of defense for policy during Mr. Obama’s first term. “If all goes extremely well, it’s something that might be manageable, but I think that the truth is, the implementation of this will be informed by how events on the ground evolve.” The 9,800 troops left behind is a larger number than some in the administration had wanted, but the sharp decline in American combat deaths this year has removed some of the pressure to bring the troops out faster.
在奥巴马第一任期中负责政策事务的前国防部副部长米歇尔·A·弗卢努瓦(Michèle A. Flournoy)说，“我认为这个目标很有难度。如果一切都进展得极其顺利，或许可以达到，但我认为，事实上，这个目标的实施将会取决于该国事态如何发展。”9800名留守美军的这个规模大于政府里一些人的期望值，但今年美国人在战场上的死亡人数大幅下降，这缓解了加速撤军的压力。
The new withdrawal proposal is also receiving criticism from those who are concerned by the pace of the troop removal and the size of the residual force.
新的撤军计划也遭到了一些人的批评。这些人对撤军的速度和留守军队的规模表示担忧。
Gen. Jack Keane, a retired Army officer who served as vice chief of staff of the Army during the George W. Bush administration, said the withdrawal schedule projected by Mr. Obama was too fast and too rigid. General Keane said that 9,800 American troops “is absolutely the bare minimum to get the job done” and that twice that number was what was required.
曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush )政府担任陆军副总参谋长的退休将领杰克·基恩(Jack Keane)上将说，奥巴马的撤军计划太快，太硬性。基恩上将说，9800名留守美军绝对只是完成任务所需要的最少人数，而实际需求是这个数字的两倍。