BRUSSELS — President Obama has spent much of his presidency mired in the challenges of a world well outside the borders of Europe — the turmoil of the Middle East, the power struggles in Asia and the terrorist threats percolating in northern Africa, Pakistan and elsewhere.
布鲁塞尔——奥巴马总统将任期内的大把时间倾注在远离欧洲边界之外的挑战上——中东的动荡、亚洲的权力争斗，以及在北非和巴基斯坦等地扩散的恐怖主义威胁。
But Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its stunningly fast annexation of Crimea have demanded a renewed focus on the part of the world that dominated American attention in the 20th century. Often accused of neglecting Europe in his first five years in office, Mr. Obama is using his trip here to recommit to the NATO alliance, rally the continent against Russian “brute force” and cast the showdown as a test of common values.
然而，俄罗斯出兵乌克兰并以惊人的速度吞并克里米亚一事，迫使美国重新将焦点放到这片曾在20世纪主宰美国注意力的区域。常有人指责奥巴马在任期的头五年里忽视欧洲，此时时刻，他正利用欧洲之行重申对北约盟国的承诺，团结欧洲大陆一致对抗俄罗斯的“野蛮势力”，并将这场对立定性为对普世价值的考验。
To show resolve, Mr. Obama decided on Wednesday to modestly increase military deployments in Eastern Europe, and aides said he would intensify efforts to broaden energy security, negotiate a trade agreement with Europe and upgrade military capabilities.
为了展示决心，奥巴马周三决定向东欧小幅增兵。幕僚们表示，他还将在增进能源安全、与欧洲谈判贸易协定，以及提升军事能力等方面加大努力。
Yet it will be hard to back up words with resources. The United States has only a small fraction of the force it once had in Europe, expanded energy ties will take years, and his own party leaders oppose quick action on a new trade pact.
不过，用实质资源来支撑言论殊为不易。美国目前在欧洲的兵力和以前比起来只是一个零头；能源纽带的扩展需要耗费多年时间；而奥巴马本党的领导层反对在新贸易协定上快速行动。
Moreover, Mr. Obama next month will head back to Asia, and aides said he would again promote his policy of pivoting toward the region he believes represents the future. One goal then for Mr. Obama, aides said, is to challenge Europe to take more of a leadership role itself, a familiar theme from Washington but one infused with new urgency by the Ukraine crisis.
而且，奥巴马下月将重返亚洲。幕僚们表示，他将再次宣传自己的“转向亚洲”政策，因为他相信该地区代表了未来。幕僚们还称，奥巴马届时的一个目标是，激励欧洲本身起到更强的领导作用。这一概念常被华盛顿提及，但乌克兰危机为其注入了新的紧迫感。
“Russia’s leadership is challenging truths that only a few weeks ago seemed self-evident,” Mr. Obama said in a speech here on Wednesday. “That in the 21st century, the borders of Europe cannot be redrawn with force; that international law matters; and that people and nations can make their own decisions about their future.”
“俄罗斯领导人正在挑战的真理，就在短短几周前看来还是不证自明的，”奥巴马周三在此地发表演讲时称。“那就是，在21世纪，欧洲的边界不能用武力重新划定；国际法举足轻重；民族与国家的未来应由其自身来决定。”
“The contest of ideas,” he added, “continues.”
“理念之争仍在延续，”他接着说。
Julianne Smith, a former national security aide in Mr. Obama’s White House now at the Center for a New American Security, said she did not expect “a fundamental recalibration of U.S. foreign policy” toward Europe, but a more “symbolic” shift. 
茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)曾在白宫任奥巴马的国家安全幕僚，目前在新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)供职。她表示，自己并不认为“美国对外政策将产生”面向欧洲的“实质性重调”，这种转变更多的是“象征性”的。
But Russia’s actions in Ukraine appear to have sent an electric jolt through Mr. Obama and his team. At first, when a political crisis broke out in Kiev in November, he largely left the matter to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Since President Vladimir V. Putin ordered troops to seize Crimea, Mr. Obama has become increasingly engaged, blitzing foreign leaders with telephone calls, imposing sanctions and speaking out more frequently.
然而，俄罗斯在乌克兰的行动似乎是劈向奥巴马及其团队的一记闪电。起先，去年11月基辅爆发政治危机时，奥巴马基本将这件事交由副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)处理。当俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)命令军队夺取克里米亚后，奥巴马开始在这件事上投入越来越多：火速与外国领导人通话、施加制裁，并且更加频繁地出面讲话。
To reassure nervous allies, he sent six extra F-15C Eagles to Lithuania and 12 F-16 fighter jets to Poland.
为了安抚紧张的盟友，奥巴马向立陶宛增派了六架F-15C鹰式战斗机、向波兰派出了12架F-16战斗机。
Mr. Obama’s speech here on Wednesday offered his most extensive rejoinder yet to Russia, a point-by-point refutation of every justification offered by Moscow for its seizure of Crimea. He rejected Mr. Putin’s comparison of his actions in Crimea to the West’s actions in Kosovo. He said Kremlin claims of persecution of Russian speakers in Ukraine were not true and called it “absurd” to suggest America supported fascists in Kiev. “No amount of propaganda can make right something that the world knows is wrong,” he said.
奥巴马周三在布鲁塞尔的演讲是迄今为止对俄罗斯做出的最为全面的回击，逐条驳斥了莫斯科给出的夺取克里米亚的每项理由。普京将自己在克里米亚的所作所为，比作西方在科索沃的行动，奥巴马对此并不接受。他说，克里姆林宫宣称的乌克兰俄语人口遭迫害的说法并不属实，而美国支持基辅法西斯的指控实为“荒谬”。“无论有多少宣传粉饰，也不能把全世界都知道的错事洗白，”他说。
Perhaps most strikingly for a Democrat who rose to prominence in part due to his opposition to the Iraq war, Mr. Obama took on and dismissed the Russian claim that the United States was hypocritical because it used force to dislodge Saddam Hussein. He reminded his audience that he spoke out against Mr. Bush’s decision to invade in 2003. “But even in Iraq, America sought to work within the international system,” he said. “We did not claim or annex Iraq’s territory. We did not grab its resources for our own gain.”
或许最令人印象深刻的是，奥巴马直面并驳斥了俄罗斯宣扬的一种的说法——美国也曾动用武力铲除萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)，所以美国很虚伪。奥巴马当年之所以能崭露头角，部分源于他是反对伊拉克战争的民主党人。他提醒听众，自己曾公开反对布什2003年做出的出兵决定。“就算是在伊拉克，美国也寻求在国际机制下行事，”他说。“我们没有夺取或吞并伊拉克领土，我们没有为了自己的利益攫取伊拉克的资源。”
Mr. Obama also turned away from his own rhetoric in 2012 when he mocked Mitt Romney’s us-against-them assessment of Mr. Putin by suggesting it was old-world thinking at a time when history had largely moved on. Now, it was Mr. Obama who evoked history, visiting Flanders Field Cemetery, a burial ground in Belgium for thousands of Americans who died in World War I, and later recounting the “ongoing clash” of two sets of national ideas about power and values during the Cold War.
奥巴马还摈弃了自己在2012年的言论。当时，他曾取笑米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)做出的评价，即与普京之间是你死我活的关系。奥巴马指出，那是一种旧世界的思维方式，而历史早已在很大程度上向前推进了。现在，追忆历史的变成了奥巴马。他先是拜访了比利时的弗拉芒战地墓园(Flanders Field Cemetery)，追忆一战中长眠于此的数千名美国人，而后他论述了冷战期间关于权力和价值观的两套国家理念之间，延续至今的“持续冲突”。
“For decades, this vision stood in sharp contrast to life on the other side of an Iron Curtain,” Mr. Obama said, describing democratic ideals fostered by European countries. “For decades, a contest was waged, and ultimately that contest was won.”
谈到欧洲国家倡导的民主理念时，奥巴马说，“几十年中，这种理念与铁幕另一边的生活形成了鲜明的对照。几十年中，我们展开了竞争，最终是我们获胜了。”