WASHINGTON — When President Obama first visited Japan in November 2009, he said he hoped someday to visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki, where the United States dropped atomic bombs during World War II.
华盛顿——2009年11月首次出访日本时，奥巴马总统曾表示希望有一天能访问广岛和长崎。二战期间，美国曾在这两座城市投下了原子弹。
With his fourth and likely final visit to Japan as president scheduled this month for a Group of 7 meeting for leaders of industrialized nations, the White House is deciding whether Mr. Obama will follow through. No sitting American president has ever visited the cities, because of concerns that such a trip would suggest that the United States was apologizing for the attacks.
奥巴马定于本月前往日本，参加G7工业化国家领导人会议，这将是他第四次访问日本，可能也是最后一次。白宫正在讨论奥巴马是否要兑现前言。之前没有任何一位美国总统在任期内访问过这两座城市，因为一些人担忧，那暗示着美国在为当年的攻击道歉。
“The memories of Hiroshima and Nagasaki are etched in the minds of the world, and I would be honored to have the opportunity to visit those cities at some point during my presidency,” Mr. Obama said in 2009.
“有关广岛和长崎的记忆，世界人民铭记在心，如果有机会能在我总统任期内的某个时刻访问这两座城市，我会感到很荣幸，”奥巴马在2009年说。
The calculus for a visit is particularly complicated for Mr. Obama. Political opponents have often falsely accused him of undertaking an “apology tour” of world capitals in his first year in office, so anything that even hints at atonement would feed that criticism.
对奥巴马来说，决定一次访问安排是非常复杂的事。政敌常常无中生有地指责他在上任的第一年里，对世界各国的首都进行了一次“道歉之旅”。因此，任何事情，即便只是略微提及赎罪，都会助长那些批评。
On the other hand, Mr. Obama has made curbing the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons and lowering the risks of nuclear attack a signature issue of his presidency.
而另一方面，奥巴马把削减全球核武储备和降低核攻击风险作为了自己总统任期内的标志性问题。
“The symbol of Hiroshima is the significant and even, in some ways, tragic ability that mankind has to wreak terrible destruction,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said in a recent briefing.
“广岛标志着人类具有惊人的——在某种程度上甚至是悲剧性的——能力，能够造成可怕的破坏，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在最近的一次发布会上说。
But Mr. Earnest was unequivocal when asked whether the president believes that Japan deserves a formal government apology: “No, he does not.”
但在被问及总统是否认为日本理应得到政府的正式道歉时，欧内斯特毫不含糊：“不，他不这么认为。”
The bombings killed more than 200,000 people, most of them civilians, and led to the Japanese surrender.
原子弹轰炸造成20多万人死亡，其中大部分是平民，并促使日本投降。
Some historians say the bombings were unnecessary and even criminal, while others argue that they saved American lives and those of hundreds of thousands of Japanese civilians who would have perished in an American invasion. Older Americans tend to view the bombings as necessary, while younger ones see them as far more problematic.
一些历史学家称轰炸没有必要，甚至是一种犯罪行为，而另一些人则称它们拯救了美国人，以及数十万会在美国进军日本时死亡的日本平民的生命。上了年纪的美国人往往认为轰炸是有必要的，而年轻人则认为它们有很大问题。
There appears to be little official appetite in Japan for an apology.
日本官方对道歉似乎也不怎么感兴趣。
In 2007, Fumio Kyuma, Japan’s defense minister at the time, referred to the bombings as “something that couldn’t be helped.” A secret 2009 State Department cable released by WikiLeaks in 2011 quoted a top Japanese diplomat as calling a visit to Hiroshima “premature” and any apology a “nonstarter.” And Japan’s own record of delayed apologies for its wartime behavior and atrocities has been criticized.
2007年，日本当时的防卫大臣久间章生(Fumio Kyuma)称轰炸是“无可奈何的事情”。2011年，维基解密(WikiLeaks)公布了一份2009年时的国务院(State Department)电报。电报援引日本一名高层外交官的话称，访问广岛“为时过早”，任何道歉“都没有成功的希望”。而日本自己推迟为其战时表现和暴行道歉的举动，也遭到了批评。
Mr. Obama has sought to make fundamental changes in foreign policy by challenging long-held assumptions about relations with Cuba, Myanmar and Iran, and many observers predict that he will do the same with Japan. He and his closest advisers are often disdainful of what they see as the think-tank consensus in Washington about how the United States should behave on the world stage. In a speech in Prague in 2009, Mr. Obama made clear that he believed the United States had a unique role arising from Hiroshima.
通过挑战长期以来对美国与古巴、缅甸和伊朗关系所持的假设，奥巴马寻求对外交政策进行根本性的改变。很多观察人士预言，他会对日本采取同样的方式。在美国应该如何在世界舞台上行事的问题上，奥巴马和他的亲信对在他们看来属于华盛顿智库共识的看法时常有些不屑。2009年在布拉格发表讲话时，奥巴马明确表示，他认为自广岛之后，美国扮演着一个独一无二的角色。
“Just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century, we must stand together for the right of people everywhere to live free from fear in the 21st century,” the president said. “As the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral responsibility to act.”
“就像我们在20世纪为自由而奋斗，在21世纪我们也必须共同努力，让全世界的人过上免于恐惧的生活，”奥巴马总统说道。“作为唯一一个使用过核武器的核武国家，美国在道义上有责任采取行动。”
Both Thomas E. Donilon, a former national security adviser to Mr. Obama, and Wendy Sherman, who recently left as the fourth-ranking official in the State Department, said in interviews that Mr. Obama should visit Hiroshima.
托马斯·E·多尼隆(Thomas E. Donilon)和温迪·谢尔曼(Wendy Sherman)都在接受采访时表示，奥巴马应该访问广岛。前者曾担任奥巴马的国家安全顾问，后者刚刚以美国国务院第四号人物的身份离职。
Mr. Donilon pointed to the North Korean nuclear program, a deep concern in Japan, as one reason for such a visit. “I think a visit would serve as a stark reminder of the dangers of nuclear weapons,” Mr. Donilon said.
多尼隆将朝鲜核项目作为奥巴马访问广岛的一个理由，那是日本的一大忧虑所在。“我认为广岛之行可以很好地提醒人们重视核武器的危险性，”多尼隆说。
Ms. Sherman said Mr. Obama’s emphasis on nuclear nonproliferation made a visit to Hiroshima essential.
谢尔曼表示，因为奥巴马非常重视核不扩散问题，所以访问广岛显得很有必要。
“For him to go to Japan and not go to the place where we birthed a nuclear century doesn’t make any sense,” she said. “I think he has to go.”
“对他来说，去日本而不访问我们开启核世纪的地方，有点说不过去，”她说。“我觉得他不得不去。”
But Victor Cha of Georgetown University, an adviser on Asia in the George W. Bush White House, said any suggestion that countries should get rid of all nuclear weapons while North Korea continued to build more made little sense.
但来自乔治城大学(Georgetown University)、曾在乔治·W·布什政府时期担任白宫亚洲事务顾问的车维德(Victor Cha)表示，让其他国家消除所有核武器而朝鲜依然如故，任何此类建议都不太讲得通。
“I think the risks of a visit outweigh the benefits,” Mr. Cha said.
“我认为访问广岛的风险要大过它能带来的好处，”车维德说。
Last month, Secretary of State John Kerry became the highest-ranking United States official ever to visit Hiroshima, during a diplomatic conclave intended to set the stage for the Group of 7 meeting this month.
上月，国务卿约翰·克里成为了曾经访问广岛的级别最高的美国官员。他当时是去日本参加一场不对外开放的外交会议，目的是为本月举行的G7会议做准备。
“Everyone should visit Hiroshima, and everyone means everyone,” Mr. Kerry said at a news conference. He called the visit “stunning” and “gut-wrenching,” and he wrote in a guest book: “It is a stark, harsh, compelling reminder not only of our obligation to end the threat of nuclear weapons, but to rededicate all our effort to avoid war itself.”
“所有人都该去一次广岛，我的意思真的是指每一个人，”克里在新闻发布会上表示。他称这次访问“很震撼”，也“很让人揪心”。他在一本来宾留言簿上写道：“它明确、严厉而有说服力地提醒着，我们肩负终结核武器威胁的责任，并应该再次竭尽全力避免发生战争。”
Some conservative commentators criticized Mr. Kerry for not telling the Japanese that they deserved to be bombed, something Mr. Obama is also unlikely to do.
一些保守派评论人士批评克里没有向日本表明，该国当年理应受到原子弹轰炸。而这属于奥巴马也不太可能说出的言论。
For decades, American diplomats largely avoided Hiroshima and Nagasaki or any official remembrance of the attacks. That changed in August 2010, when John V. Roos, the American ambassador at the time, attended a commemoration in Hiroshima. His successor, Caroline Kennedy, has also attended.
过去几十年，美国外交官基本上一直避谈广岛和长崎，也不去参加任何相关的官方纪念活动。这种情况直到2010年8月才有所改变，当时担任美国驻日本大使的约翰·V·鲁斯(John V. Roos)在广岛参加了一场纪念活动。他的继任者卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)也参加了此类活动。