WASHINGTON — President Obama plans to nominate Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, as his next ambassador to China, according to three officials familiar with the pending announcement.
华盛顿——据三名了解即将发布的公告的官员透露，奥巴马总统计划提名蒙大拿州民主党参议员、参议院财政委员会(Senate Finance Committee)主席马克斯· 鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)担任下一任驻华大使。
Mr. Baucus, the chief Capitol Hill architect of Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul, had already decided not to seek re-election next year. He has served six terms and is Montana’s longest-serving senator. He said in a recent interview that he was not certain of his plans, but was looking forward to “a whole new adventure, a whole new chapter.”
鲍卡斯是国会山中奥巴马医改的首席设计师，此前已决定不参加明年的连任竞选。鲍卡斯已在国会连任六届，是蒙大拿州任职时间最长的参议员。鲍卡斯最近接受采访时表示，他还没有确定的未来计划，但期待“一次全新的冒险，一个全新的篇章”。
Known as an independent thinker, Mr. Baucus has long made Democrats uncomfortable. He broke with the party as one of the writers of President Bush’s tax cuts in 2001, and again to support a Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2003. He aroused the ire of Democrats with his protracted — and unsuccessful — effort to get Republican support for the health care bill, which he regards as one of his major accomplishments.
鲍卡斯被认为是一个独立的思考者，一直都让民主党人感到不舒服。2001年，鲍卡斯成为布什总统减税政策的拟订者之一，背弃了民主党，后来又故伎重演，于2003年支持了一个医保处方药福利项目。鲍卡斯曾耗费大量时间来争取共和党对医保法案的支持，最终却归于失败，因此惹恼了民主党人。鲍卡斯认为医保法案是自己的主要成就之一。
Mr. Baucus waved off reporters in the Capitol on Wednesday, declining to comment on the offer. “It is not for me to discuss,” he said.
周三，鲍卡斯在国会拒绝接受记者采访，拒绝评论前述提名计划。他说，“这不是我该讨论的事情。”
But if he were to depart early from the Senate, where his colleagues would have to confirm him as ambassador, his vacancy would leave it to a Democratic governor, Steve Bullock, to appoint a replacement. Mr. Bullock would then be free to appoint the lieutenant governor, John Walsh, who has already declared his candidacy for Mr. Baucus’s seat.
但是，如果鲍卡斯较早离开参议院，而他的参议院同僚又不得不确认他的大使提名，那么，填补他席位的人选将由民主党州长史蒂夫·布洛克(Steve Bullock)来指定。届时，布洛克将有权把他的席位交给副州长约翰·W·沃尔什(John W. Walsh)，沃尔什已经宣布自己将竞逐鲍卡斯的席位。
That would give Democrats an advantage in holding the seat in Montana, where Republicans have recruited Representative Steve Daines for the race. Democrats, facing difficult midterm elections next year, are fighting hard to hold on to the Montana seat, as well as those in a number of conservative-leaning states like Arkansas, Louisiana and North Carolina.
这样做有助于民主党保留蒙大拿州的席位，共和党已经征召众议员史蒂夫·戴恩斯(Steve Daines)来竞逐这一席位。民主党明年将面临一场艰难的中期选举，目前正在努力奋战，以期留住蒙大拿州的席位，以及阿肯色、路易斯安那和北卡罗来纳等倾向保守的州的席位。
A Democratic official said the White House considered Mr. Baucus a strong candidate for the job because he had been working for more than 20 years to deepen the relationship between China and the United States. He has visited China eight times and has also played host to a number of Chinese diplomats and trade delegates in Washington and Montana, including President Xi Jinping.
一名民主党官员称，白宫之所以认为鲍卡斯是这份工作的理想人选，是因为他曾努力深化中美关系，为此进行了20多年的工作。他曾八次到访中国，还曾在华盛顿和蒙大拿接待过多名中国外交官和贸易代表，其中包括中国国家主席习近平。
The senator also led American efforts in the 1990s to bring China into the World Trade Organization.
20世纪90年代，鲍卡斯还领导了美国促成中国加入世贸组织(World Trade Organization)的工作。