WASHINGTON — President Obama requested $500 million from Congress on Thursday to train and equip what the White House is calling “appropriately vetted” members of the Syrian opposition, reflecting increased worry about the spillover of the Syrian conflict into Iraq.
华盛顿——本周四，美国总统奥巴马向国会申请5亿美元资金，以便为白宫所说的“经过适当审核”的叙利亚反对派成员提供训练和装备。此举显示，叙利亚冲突蔓延到伊拉克之后，白宫的忧虑有所加剧。
The training program would be a significant step for a president who has consistently resisted providing military aid to the rebels in the conflict in Syria, and has warned of the dangers of American intervention. But military and State Department officials indicated that there were not yet any specific programs to arm and train the rebels that the money would fund, nor could administration officials specify which moderate Syrian opposition members they intended to train and support, or where they would be trained.
这个训练计划是奥巴马迈出的一大步，因为之前他一直拒绝为叙利亚冲突中的叛军提供军事援助，并且警告说美国进行干预会带来种种危险。但军方和国务院官员表示，对于这5亿美元，目前还没有训练和武装叛军的任何具体方案，奥巴马政府官员也没有具体指明，他们打算训练和支持叙利亚的哪些温和型反对派成员，而这些人又将在哪里接受训练。
“While we continue to believe that there is no military solution to this crisis and that the United States should not put American troops into combat in Syria, this request marks another step toward helping the Syrian people defend themselves against regime attacks,” Caitlin Hayden, a National Security Council spokeswoman, said in a statement. She also said the money and training would help Syrians fight extremists “who find safe haven in the chaos.”
“虽然我们仍然相信，没有任何军事方案可以解决这一危机，而且美国也不应该让自己的军队参与叙利亚的战斗，但这份申请标志着，帮助叙利亚公众捍卫自己、免受叙利亚政权攻击的行动又向前迈进了一步，”白宫国家安全委员会(White House National Security Council)发言人凯特琳·海登(Caitlin Hayden)在一份声明中说。她还表示，资金和训练活动将有助于叙利亚人打击那些“在混乱中寻找避风港”的极端分子。
Some foreign policy experts were more blunt.
一些外交政策专家更加直言不讳。
“I think the president has realized that the containment of the Syria crisis has not worked,” said Andrew Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. With the Sunni insurgency in Iraq, the long-running Syria crisis has “become a threat to the homeland, because this is a durable safe haven” for terrorists, Mr. Tabler said.
“我认为总统已经意识到，对叙利亚危机采取的遏制措施没有奏效，”华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)叙利亚问题专家安德鲁·泰布勒(Andrew Tabler)说，随着伊拉克爆发逊尼派叛乱，长期持续的叙利亚危机“令我国国土遭受威胁，因为这是恐怖分子的一个长期避风港”，泰布勒说。
Mr. Obama’s request calls for the Pentagon to “train and equip vetted elements of the Syrian armed opposition to help defend the Syrian people, stabilize areas under opposition control, facilitate the provision of essential services, counter terrorist threats and promote conditions for a negotiated settlement.”
奥巴马在申请中要求五角大楼“训练和武装经过审核的叙利亚反对派成员，以帮助保卫叙利亚公众，维护反对派控制区的稳定，协助提供基本生活服务，打击反恐怖主义威胁，并促成谈判解决危机的条件”。
It also reflects a scramble by the administration to try to put some form to the president’s surprise announcement last month of plans for a $5 billion counterterrorism fund to provide training for operations in vulnerable countries in the Middle East. Mr. Obama’s announcement of the fund during a West Point speech on foreign policy last month was sudden in coming, several administration officials said; at the time, neither the Pentagon nor the State Department had drawn up plans at the time for spending the money.
这份申请也反映出政府在急忙展开行动，试图把奥巴马上个月出人意料的言论转化为具体行动。奥巴马当时在西点军校(West Point)发表演讲，在谈到外交政策时，他突然宣布要用50亿美元的资金，为中东地区脆弱国家的反恐行动提供训练，几名政府官员说；当时，无论是五角大楼还是国务院，都还没有制定任何有关这笔钱的支出计划。
“There’s not a lot of detail here,” said Gordon Adams, a professor of foreign policy at American University. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill, he added, are “going to immediately say, what’s it for?”
“具体细节不多，”美国大学(American University)的外交政策教授戈登·亚当斯(Gordon Adams)说。他还说，国会山的立法者“马上就会问，这是用来干什么的？”
The White House is asking for $4 billion to go to the Pentagon and $1 billion to the State Department for other counterterrorism operations, including training and equipping partner countries. Some of the money, administration officials said, would cover increased costs of Special Operations Forces that have deployed around the world, while $1.5 billion would go toward counterterrorism efforts in the neighborhood around Syria: Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq.
白宫要求拨40亿美元给五角大楼，10亿美元给国务院，用来开展其他反恐行动，包括培训和武装伙伴国家。奥巴马政府官员说，目前已经部署在世界各地的特种作战部队的经费有所上涨，50亿美元中有一部分会用来弥补这些支出，15亿美元将用于叙利亚周边国家的反恐努力，这些国家有约旦、黎巴嫩、土耳其和伊拉克。
The president also wants to set aside $500 million to “address unforeseen contingencies” in counterterrorism, namely Iraq, an administration official said. After withdrawing American combat troops from Iraq in 2011, Mr. Obama now confronts a crisis there as Al Qaeda-inspired insurgents, known as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, have overrun several major cities, including Mosul, and the government of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has seemed powerless to stop them.
奥巴马总统还希望预留5亿美元，用来解决反恐行动中“不可预见的突发事件”，即伊拉克问题，一位政府官员说。美国作战部队2011年撤出伊拉克后，现在奥巴马面临着一个危机：基地组织带动的一个名为“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的武装组织，已经占领了包括摩苏尔在内的几个主要城市，而伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)似乎无力阻挡。
Last week, President Obama announced that he was sending 300 American military advisers to Iraq to set up joint operations centers, one in Baghdad and one likely in Kurdistan. The advisers, who began arriving this week, are to assess whether the Iraqi army is able to stand up to the insurgency, and will also try to get a better fix on the capabilities — and potential vulnerabilities — of the Qaeda-inspired insurgents. Mr. Obama has not ruled out airstrikes.
上周，美国总统奥巴马宣布，他将派遣300名美国军事顾问前往伊拉克，建立两个联合行动中心，一个在巴格达，一个可能在库尔德斯坦。这些顾问本周起陆续就位，他们将评估伊拉克军队是否有能力对付叛乱分子，也会设法进一步了解这些叛乱分子的作战能力以及可能存在的弱点。奥巴马没有排除美国开展空袭行动的可能性。