President Obama on Wednesday directed his aides to monitor the spread of Ebola in the United States “in a much more aggressive way,” but said the American people should remain confident in the government’s ability to prevent a widespread outbreak of the deadly disease.
周三，奥巴马总统指示自己的助手要“更加积极地”监控埃博拉在美国的传播，但他表示，美国人民应该相信，政府能够阻止这种致命疾病的大规模爆发。
After a two-hour meeting of cabinet-level officials who are in charge of the government’s response to the virus, Mr. Obama promised that a review of the recent Ebola cases in Dallas would determine what went wrong that allowed two nurses to be infected.
与负责政府应对埃博拉病毒工作的内阁官员举行了长达两个小时的会议之后，奥巴马承诺，将对达拉斯最近出现的埃博拉病例进行研究，以确定致使两名护士感染病毒的问题出在哪里。
With a video link to Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the head of the Centers for Disease Control, the president said he had ordered health officials to determine, “How we are going to make sure that something like this isn’t repeated.”
在与美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)主任托马斯·R·弗里登(Thomas R. Frieden)进行视频交谈时，奥巴马表示，他已经指示卫生官员，研究该“如何确保此类事情不会重演”。
But he did not criticize Dr. Frieden for what officials have called “shortcomings” in the response to the Ebola case in Dallas. And Mr. Obama went out of his way to reassure those listening that the virus does not pose a significant threat to the vast majority of people in the country.
有官员称医疗部门对达拉斯埃博拉病例的应对举措“存在不足”，但奥巴马没有就此批评弗里登。奥巴马极力安抚听众，称埃博拉病毒对大部分美国人没有造成显著威胁。
To drive home that point, Mr. Obama noted that he had close contact with several of the nurses who treated Ebola patients at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta.
为了阐明这一点，奥巴马称，自己与亚特兰大埃默里大学医院(Emory University Hospital)几名护理埃博拉患者的护士有过密切接触。
“I shook hands with, hugged, and kissed, not the doctors, but a couple of the nurses at Emory,” Mr. Obama said in the brief remarks. “They followed the protocols, they knew what they were doing, and I felt perfectly safe doing so.”
“和我握手、拥抱和亲吻的不是医生，而是艾默里大学医院的两位护士，”奥巴马在简短的讲话中说。“他们遵循了规程，清楚自己在做什么，我觉得这么做完全是安全的。”
Even as Mr. Obama urged calm in the United States, he also sought to increase the pressure on other nations to respond more aggressively to the Ebola outbreak raging in West Africa.
在呼吁国内保持冷静的同时，奥巴马也寻求对其他国家加大压力，敦促它们对西非埃博拉疫情做出更积极的响应。
If the world lets the disease rage out of control on that continent, Mr. Obama warned, “then it will spread globally.”
如果世界任由埃博拉疫情在那片大陆上肆虐，奥巴马警告说，“那么它将会蔓延到全球。”
Earlier Wednesday, Mr. Obama canceled his travel to a fund-raiser and a campaign rally so he could hold the meeting. The decision came as a second nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, tested positive for Ebola in Dallas after helping treat a Liberian patient, raising new concerns about the protocols for containing the spread of the deadly virus and heightening fears among the public.
周三早些时候，为了召开此次会议，奥巴马取消了参加一场筹款活动和一场竞选集会的行程。奥巴马做出该决定的同时，又有一名护士——安贝尔·乔伊·文森(Amber Joy Vinson)——在参与救治一名利比里亚患者之后，在达拉斯被检测出埃博拉病毒阳性。这再次令公众对控制这种致死性病毒传播的规程产生了担忧，并加剧了公众的恐慌。