The decomposing bodies of as many as 70 people assumed to be migrants being smuggled across Europe were found in a truck abandoned on a highway east of Vienna on Thursday, the police said.
警方表示，周四在维也纳以东的一条公路上发现了一辆遭弃的货车，其中装满了穿越欧洲的偷渡人员正在腐烂的尸体，人数约为70人。
The precise toll was yet to be determined, said Hans-Peter Doskozil, director of the police in the eastern state of Burgenland, during a news conference on Austria’s public broadcaster, adding that the count was hindered by the advanced state of decomposition of some of the bodies.
在奥地利公共广播机构播放的新闻发布会上，东部州布尔根兰的警察局长汉斯-彼得·多斯科奇尔(Hans-Peter Doskozil)表示车上确切的死亡人数有待确定，并称部分尸体高度腐烂，阻碍了计数工作。
The discovery was made after a highway worker alerted the police around 11:40 a.m. that the truck, which had Hungarian license plates, was standing in the emergency lane of a highway that links Budapest and Vienna, in the Neusiedl am See region, near the Hungarian border. Mr. Doskozil said the truck was there since at least Wednesday.
一名路政工作者在当天上午11点40分左右向警方通报了这辆货车的情况，从而让此事得到曝光。这辆车挂着匈牙利车牌，停在了连接布达佩斯与维亚纳的一条公路的应急车道上，位于靠近匈牙利边境的滨湖新锡德尔地区。多斯科奇尔透露，至少从周三开始它就停在那里。
Janos Lazar, chief of staff to Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, said that the authorities believe the truck was part of a human trafficking operation, and that the victims “were illegal migrants who were trying to reach the West through Hungary or with the help of Hungarians.” Hungarian officials said they have assigned investigators to help the Austrians with the case.
匈牙利总理欧尔班·维克多(Viktor Orban)的幕僚长拉扎尔·亚诺什(Janos Lazar)表示，当局认为这辆车从事了人口贩运活动，受害者“是试图借道匈牙利或在匈牙利人的帮助下前往西方的非法移民”。匈牙利官方称，已指派调查人员协助奥地利破案。
Mr. Doskozil said the investigators would comb the cabin of the truck for clues to help them establish the identity of the driver. By afternoon, authorities said the truck had been towed from the highway to an undisclosed location where the bodies could be removed and the painstaking work of trying to identify them could begin.
多斯科奇尔称，调查人员将清理货舱，寻找可以帮助他们确定司机身份的线索。到了周四下午，奥地利当局宣布这辆货车已从路上拖走，但并未披露具体送到了何处。在那里，尸体将被运出货舱，然后开始确认他们身份的缜密过程。
“It is clear that this is a case of organized criminality where a lot of money is at stake and business is made out of human suffering,” Mr. Doskozil said.
“这显然是一起有组织犯罪的案子，涉案金额巨大，从人们的痛苦之中牟利，”多斯科奇尔说。
The incident is the latest in a summer of tragedy for migrants, who have drowned at sea by the hundreds and been injured or worse in accidents during their attempts to reach safety and jobs in the European Union.
今年夏天充满了移民悲剧。在尝试得到欧盟的安全环境和工作机会的过程中，数百人葬身大海，还有不少人经历了至少受伤的遭遇。奥地利的这起事件只是其中的最新一例。
Hungary has taken a hard line with the migrants and has accelerated the building of a fence along the border with Serbia in an effort to block the flow of tens of thousands who have worked their way up the length of the Balkans in recent weeks.
匈牙利在移民问题上采取强硬立场。为了阻拦想方设法于最近几周穿越巴尔干半岛的数万人潮，该国还加快了在与塞尔维亚的边界线上设立防护设施的步伐。
The border fence has threatened to complicate and even cut off what has become an increasingly accessible route for the migrants, many of whom are fleeing wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria.
这些防护设施可能会令相应的移民线路受阻，乃至中断。许多移民是为了逃离阿富汗、伊拉克和叙利亚的战事，而踏上偷渡之路。此前，这条线路对偷渡者而言变得越来越好走了。
In recent interviews, humanitarian aid workers and the migrants themselves said the fence would not stop the migrants but would force them to find other ways to make it to wealthy European Union countries farther north, often with the help of human traffickers.
在近期的采访中，人道援助工作者和移民们均表示，匈牙利的防护设施不会阻止移民现象，只会迫使他们找到其他办法前往更北面的富裕欧盟国家，而且往往是要借助人贩子的力量。
The grisly discovery coincided with the start of a conference in Vienna on how to make the Balkans more secure and prosperous, partly as a means to stop the flight of thousands seeking better economic conditions in Austria, Germany and other more wealthy parts of the European Union.
这次令人毛骨悚然的发现正好是在维也纳的一次会议开幕之际。大会主题是如何让巴尔干半岛提升安全性和经济繁荣程度，其中的部分原因则是想以此作为阻止移民潮的一种办法。目前，有成千上万人希望去往奥地利和德国等欧盟较为富裕的国家。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, and Balkan heads of government are attending the conference.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)、欧盟外交事务高级代表费德丽卡·莫盖里尼(Federica Mogherini)及巴尔干半岛各国的政府首脑将出席会议。
Ms. Merkel and Chancellor Werner Faymann of Austria expressed sorrow over the deaths and said they were a chilling reminder of the need to give shelter to migrants fleeing war.
默克尔和奥地利总理维尔纳·法伊曼(Werner Faymann)对这起死亡事件表示哀悼，称它用让人不寒而栗的事实提醒大家，必须为逃离战争的移民提供庇护。
“Such a tragic death,” Ms. Merkel added, emphasizing the need for Europe to pull together and ease the crisis, part of the biggest wave of migrants since World War II.
“令人悲哀至极的死亡，”默克尔说。她强调，欧洲必须团结起来缓解这场危机。这是二战以来规模最大的移民潮。
In his remarks, Mr. Faymann said, “This shows once more how necessary it is to save lives and to fight people smugglers.”
法伊曼在讲话中表示，“它再次显示了拯救生命、打击人贩子的必要性。”
He said, “Those who look back to World War II history know that there were people who depended then on asylum” to survive. Today, too, “it saves lives,” he added.
他说，“那些回顾二战历史的人知道，当时有不少人指望庇护”来活命。今天也是一样的，“这会挽救生命。”
Gerald Tatzgern, who leads an Austrian police team responsible for fighting human trafficking, said that the police had secured the site where the truck was found. But he said it would take several days for forensics teams to sift through the evidence and potentially learn more about the identities of those found dead.
奥地利警方负责打击人口贩运的主管格拉尔德·塔茨根(Gerald Tatzgern)称，警方将那辆货车被发现时所在区域保护了起来。不过他也表示，痕检团队需要一段时间来梳理证据，从而找到有关这些死者身份的更多线索。
Images in the Austrian news media showed a white vehicle with a rear cooler compartment, emblazoned with the word “Hyza” in brown letters, with a chicken standing in for the letter Y, surrounded by police cars parked at the side of the freeway.
奥地利新闻媒体刊登的图像显示，这是一辆白色的货车，后部为冷藏车厢，车身上醒目地写着棕色的“HYZA”字样，其中的字母“Y”用一只鸡的形象代替。在它的周围，多辆警车停在路边。
A Slovakia-based company by the name of Hyza told the Austrian news agency APA that it had sold more than a dozen of its vehicles in 2014 but that it had no further knowledge about them.
名为Hyza的公司总部在斯洛伐克。在接受奥地利通讯社APA采访时，公司表示在2014年的时候出售了十几部车，但更多的事情就不知道了。
Austria’s interior minister, Johanna Mikl-Leitner, called it a “dark day” and urged everyone across the 28-nation European Union to move harshly against human traffickers.
奥地利内政部长约翰娜·米克尔-莱特纳(Johanna Mikl-Leitner)称周四是“黑暗的一天”，并且敦促欧盟28国全体严厉打击人贩。
“These are not well-minded helpers,” she said. “They are not concerned with the welfare of the migrants. They care only about profit.”
“这些人不是在好心帮忙，”她说。“他们不关心移民的福祉，只在乎怎么赚钱。”
Austria’s justice ministry said Thursday some 278 people have been detained on charges of attempting to smuggle illegal migrants into the country.
奥地利司法部周四宣布，已有278人被拘，罪名是企图将非法移民偷渡到该国。
The discovery of the truck not only threatened to overshadow the conference but also highlighted the continuing divides and dysfunction of the European Union in handling a migration crisis that is straining resources.
这辆货车的曝光不仅可能让前述会议蒙上阴影，还突显了欧盟内部在处理这场令其顾此失彼的移民危机时暴露的持续分歧与无能。
Ms. Mogherini gave the strongest voice to Europe’s need to act to stop such deaths, “moving from the blame game to real cooperation.”
欧洲现在必须行动起来，阻止类似死亡事件发生，莫盖里尼就此发出最强音：“停止相互指责，进行真正的合作。”
There is “no magic solution,” she said, “but the road we can follow to start making things work is very well known.”
“没有什么神奇的解决方案，”她说，“但我们可以走上怎样的道路来让事情好转，这一点是众所周知的。”
“We understand very well that we cannot continue like this — with a moment of silence every time we see someone dying,” she said.
“我们心知肚明，不能再这样下去了，不能再每次看到有人死去，仅只沉默片刻，”莫盖里尼说。