WASHINGTON — As tears streamed down his face, President Obama on Tuesday condemned the repeated spasms of gun violence across America as he announced new executive actions intended to reduce the number of mass shootings, suicides and killings that have become routine in the nation’s communities.
华盛顿——周二，美国总统奥巴马宣布新的行政措施，旨在遏制在美国社区已成为常态的大规模枪击、自杀和杀人事件。在谴责全美各地一波又一波反复出现的枪支暴力时，他的泪水顺着脸颊流了下来。
Speaking in the East Room of the White House surrounded by gun control activists and the families of gun victims, Mr. Obama broke down as he spoke about the young children shot to death in 2012 at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut.
奥巴马在白宫东厅发表了此番讲话。提及2012年康涅狄格州桑迪胡克小学(Sandy Hook Elementary School)遇枪击身亡的那些小孩时，身边环绕着枪支管控活动人士和枪支暴力受害者家属的奥巴马哭了起来。
“First graders,” he said, his eyes drifting to a distant place and becoming red with tears. The president wiped his eye and paused to regain his composure. “Every time I think about those kids, it gets me mad,” he said.
“一年级的孩子，”他一边说，一边看向远方，眼眶泛红。奥巴马揉了揉眼睛，停下来让自己恢复镇静。“每次想到那些孩子，我都很气愤，”他说。
It was not the first time that Mr. Obama has been overcome by emotion while talking about gun violence. And his message was the same as it has been in the aftermath of numerous mass shootings: a plea for action to enact universal background checks and overhaul gun laws.
这不是奥巴马第一次在谈及枪支暴力时情绪激动。他要传达的讯息，也和多次大规模枪击事件发生后的一样：请求采取行动，实行普遍的背景核查并全面修订枪支管理法律。
“The gun lobby may be holding Congress hostage right now, but they can’t hold America hostage,” Mr. Obama said. “Congress still needs to act. The folks in this room will not rest until Congress does.”
“枪支游说团体可能现在挟持了国会，但他们无法挟持整个美国，”奥巴马说。“我们依然需要国会行动起来。直到国会行动起来，这间屋子里的人才会满意。”
But having failed in his push for new gun laws three years ago, Mr. Obama conceded Tuesday that “it won’t happen overnight, it won’t happen during this Congress, it won’t happen during my presidency.”
不过，三年前，他推动出台新的枪支管理法律的努力以失败告终。周二当天，奥巴马承认“事情不会一蹴而就、不会发生在这一届国会、不会发生在我的总统任期内。”
Instead, Mr. Obama said, he is directing his law enforcement agencies and other parts of the government to do what they can without Congress. “Once Congress gets on board with common sense gun safety measures,” he said, “we can reduce gun violence a whole lot more. But we also can’t wait.”
奥巴马表示，他将指示自己领导的执法机构和其他政府部门，在没有国会帮助的情况下尽力而为。“一旦国会同意合理的枪支安全措施，”他说，“我们就能大量减少枪支暴力。但与此同时，我们等不及了。”
Mr. Obama will seek to expand the number of gun buyers who are subject to criminal background checks by clarifying existing law. He will also hire more personnel to process background checks, direct officials to conduct more gun research, encourage more domestic violence prosecutions and order better tracking of lost guns, officials said.
奥巴马将通过澄清现行法律的方式来寻求扩大需接受刑事背景核查的枪支买主的规模。官方称，奥巴马还将招募更多人员进行背景核查、指示官员加强对枪支问题的研究、鼓励增加针对家庭暴力的检控并下令改善对遗失枪支的追踪。
The efforts are an attempt to sidestep Congress on an issue that has become increasingly divisive politically. But the modest steps Mr. Obama will announce stop well short of the type of large-scale changes to the gun trade that Congress rejected three years ago. In the wake of the Sandy Hook shooting, which killed 26 people, mostly young children, Mr. Obama vowed to seek new gun laws from Congress that would require background checks for all firearms purchases. That effort failed.
这些举措是在一个政治分歧日益加大的议题上为避开国会所做的尝试。但奥巴马将要宣布的措施有限，不会对枪支贸易进行大规模的改革。三年前，桑迪胡克小学枪击案造成26人死亡，其中主要是幼童。事件过后，奥巴马发誓要努力让国会通过新的枪支管理法律，要求对所有枪支买主进行背景核查。但这样的大变动遭到了国会的否决。奥巴马的努力以失败告终。
On Tuesday, Chris W. Cox, the executive director of the National Rifle Association, accused Mr. Obama of engaging in “political rhetoric instead of offering meaningful solutions” and said the president’s actions would do little to keep Americans safe.
本周二，美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)执行主管克里斯·W·考克斯(Chris W. Cox)指责奥巴马“在政治上巧言令色，却不提供有意义的解决方案”，并称总统的行动无助于保障美国人的安全。
“The American people do not need more emotional, condescending lectures that are completely devoid of facts,” Mr. Cox said in a statement. “The men and women of the National Rifle Association take a back seat to no one when it comes to keeping our communities safe. But the fact is that President Obama’s proposals would not have prevented any of the horrific events he mentioned.”
“这种演讲充满情绪、居高临下、完全回避事实，而美国公众不需要更多这样的说教，”考克斯在声明中表示。“在保护社区安全的时候，步枪协会的男女成员不会落于人后。但事实在于，奥巴马的提议阻止不了他提到的任何一起可怕的事件。“
The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, released a statement. “From Day 1,” he said, “the president has never respected the right to safe and legal gun ownership that our nation has valued since its founding. He knows full well that the law already says that people who make their living selling firearms must be licensed, regardless of venue. Still, rather than focus on criminals and terrorists, he goes after the most law-abiding of citizens. His words and actions amount to a form of intimidation that undermines liberty.
众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)发表声明称：“从一开始，总统就没有尊重过大家安全合法拥有枪支的权利，而这项权利自从美国建国以来就一贯受到珍视。他非常清楚，法律已经做出了规定，那些靠出售武器谋生的人无论经营场地如何，必须持有执照。尽管如此，总统不是把目光放在罪犯和恐怖分子身上，而是聚焦在最遵纪守法的公民身上。他的言行，基本上就是一种破坏自由的恐吓。”
“No matter what President Obama says, his word does not trump the Second Amendment. We will conduct vigilant oversight. His executive order will no doubt be challenged in the courts. Ultimately, everything the president has done can be overturned by a Republican president, which is another reason we must win in November.”
“不管奥巴马总统说了什么，这些话都不能凌驾在宪法第二修订案之上。我们会警惕地加以监督。他的行政令无疑会在法院受到挑战。归根结底，奥巴马做的一切事情都可以被共和党总统推翻，这也是我们必须在11月获得胜利的又一个原因。”
In the days after the terrorist attack that killed 14 people on Dec. 2 in San Bernardino, Calif., Mr. Obama talked about its similarities with other mass shootings and said it showed the need for gun restrictions. But his decision to move ahead on his own has caused outrage among Republicans, who say that the president is abusing the power of his office by attempting to expand background checks without the explicit approval from lawmakers.
去年12月2日，加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺发生恐怖袭击，导致14人遇难。事后，奥巴马谈到了它与其他大规模枪击事件的相似之处，并说这表明枪支管制势在必行。但是，他决定自己先行动起来的做法引发了共和党人的愤怒。他们表示，奥巴马在没有得到立法部门的明确批准的情况下，试图扩大背景核查的范围，这么做是在滥用总统职权。
In a statement from the campaign trail Tuesday morning, Jeb Bush echoed comments from his Republican rivals for the presidential nomination.
周二上午，杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)在竞选期间发表声明，表达了与共和党其他总统候选人相似的意见。
“Rather than taking guns out of the hands of law-abiding citizens as Obama and Clinton would like to do, we should focus on keeping guns out of the hands of the terrorists who want to kill innocent Americans,” Mr. Bush said. “My commitment to responsible gun owners is clear. As president of the United States, I will defend the Second Amendment, always.”
“奥巴马和克林顿想要从守法公民的手中夺走枪支，但我们的关注点应该是绝不要让枪支落入那些想要杀害无辜美国人的恐怖分子手中，”布什说。“对于那些富有责任感的持枪者，我的保证很明确。如果成为美利坚总统，我将自始自终地捍卫宪法第二修正案。”