HONOLULU — As the United States moves closer to taking Cuba off the list of state sponsors of terrorism, President Obama said he would “review” whether to return North Korea to the list, part of a broader government response to a damaging cyberattack on Sony’s Hollywood studio.
檀香山——美国更加接近把古巴从支持恐怖主义的国家名单中删除之际，奥巴马总统称，他将“评估”是否把朝鲜重新列入这个名单。这是美国政府针对索尼(Sony)在好莱坞的影视公司受到的破坏性网络攻击而做出的更广泛回应的一部分。
“We have got very clear criteria as to what it means for a state to sponsor terrorism, and we don’t make those judgments just based on the news of the day,” Mr. Obama told CNN in an interview broadcast Sunday. “We look systematically at what’s been done.”
“对于什么是支持恐怖主义的国家，我们有着非常清晰的标准，我们也不会仅仅根据一时的事件来做出判断，”奥巴马在周日播出的一档采访节目中告诉CNN。“我们会系统地考察这个国家都做了些什么。”
North Korea was removed from the list six years ago, but it has again prompted the ire of the United States after the F.B.I. said extensive evidence linked the North Korean government to a cyberattack on Sony Pictures.
美国六年前将朝鲜从这个名单中删除。不过，当联邦调查局(FBI)表示有大量证据表明朝鲜政府与索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)受到的网络攻击有关之后，朝鲜再次激怒了美国。
The hacking of the studio’s computers, in response to a screwball comedy called “The Interview,” about a plot to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, started as the stuff of Hollywood gossip but quickly escalated into an assault on an important industry — and the right to freedom of expression.
这家影业公司的计算机之所以受到黑客攻击，是为了回应一部名为《采访》(The Interview)的荒诞喜剧。该片讲述了一个刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的阴谋。这次的攻击活动最初只是好莱坞的八卦素材，随后却迅速升级为对一个重要行业的攻击，以及对言论自由权利的侵犯。
In a news conference on Friday, Mr. Obama said the United States “will respond proportionately,” but declined to give details.
在周五的新闻发布会上，奥巴马称，美国“将做出适当回应”，但拒绝透露更多细节。
Sunday was the second day of Mr. Obama’s two-week vacation in Hawaii. “The president is always briefed on appropriate national security matters. Hawaii is no different,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. He added, “We’re not going to release any details on our internal briefing process.”
周日是奥巴马在夏威夷为期两周的假期的第二天。“总统时刻都能获得在国家安全问题上的恰当汇报，在夏威夷也不例外，”白宫发言人埃里克·舒尔茨(Eric Schultz)说。他还表示，“我们不打算公开有关我们内部情况汇报流程的任何细节。”
Mr. Obama expressed sympathy for Sony, but told Candy Crowley of CNN that he did not consider the cyberattack to be an act of war. The studio decided to cancel its December premiere of “The Interview” after hackers’ threats of attacks on theaters if they showed the comedy.
奥巴马对索尼表示了同情，但他告诉CNN的坎迪·克劳利(Candy Crowley)，自己并不认为此次网络攻击是战争行为。由于黑客发出威胁，如果影院放映这部喜剧，便会对其发动袭击，于是索尼决定取消原定于12月举行的《采访》首映。
“I think it was an act of cybervandalism that was very costly, very expensive,” Mr. Obama said. “We take it very seriously.”
“我认为这是一种代价非常高、非常昂贵的网络破坏行为，”奥巴马说。“我们很重视这件事。”
The North Korean government has insisted that it was not involved in the attack, and in a message on the state-run news service Pyongyang warned of “serious consequences” if the United States retaliated.
朝鲜政府坚称自己没有参与这次攻击。平壤还在官方通讯社刊登的一则声明中警告，如果美国进行报复，会酿成“严重后果”。
Republicans pushed back at Mr. Obama’s characterization of the attack as only cybervandalism.
对于奥巴马把此次攻击仅仅定性为网络破坏行为，共和党表达了不满。
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, told CNN that the president “does not understand that this is a new — this is a manifestation of a new form of warfare,” and he proposed reimposing sanctions that were lifted during the Bush administration.
来自亚利桑那州的共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)接受CNN采访时称，总统“不明白这是一种新情况，是一种新战争形式的表现。”他建议重新实施布什政府时期解除的相关制裁。