WASHINGTON — When President Obama placed a call to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany last Thursday, he had a busy agenda: to consult with a close ally and to mobilize wavering Europeans to put more pressure on Russia to end its covert incursions in Ukraine.
华盛顿——上周四，当奥巴马总统给德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)打电话时，他有很多事情要谈：和这位亲密的盟友协商，鼓动举棋不定的欧洲人给俄罗斯加压，以终结后者对乌克兰的秘密入侵。
What Mr. Obama did not know was that a day earlier, a young German intelligence operative had been arrested and had admitted that he had been passing secrets to the Central Intelligence Agency.
奥巴马不知道的是，就在一天之前，德方逮捕了一名年轻的德国情报人员，他承认自己一直在向美国中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）传递机密情报。
While Ms. Merkel chose not to raise the issue during the call, the fact that the president was kept in the dark about the blown spying operation at a particularly delicate moment in American relations with Germany has led frustrated White House officials to question who in the C.I.A.’s chain of command was aware of the case — and why that information did not make it to the Oval Office before the call.
默克尔选择不在通话中提及此事，然而，总统对在美德关系格外脆弱的时刻突然被曝光的间谍活动一无所知的现实，让大为恼火的白宫官员对CIA发出了质问。他们想知道CIA的指挥链中有谁了解此事，还有，为何这则消息没能在奥巴马打电话之前，传达到总统办公室(Oval Office)？
The details of this spying case remain murky. Intelligence officials have declined to comment, and it is still not clear what the German operative has told the authorities. But the episode sheds light on the tensions that arise from the colliding cultures of spycraft and statecraft — one driven by the need to vacuum as much sensitive material as possible; the other giving primacy to diplomatic objectives.
此次间谍案的细节依然模糊不清。情报官员拒绝置评。目前依然不清楚，这名德国特工向当局坦白了什么。不过，此次事件清晰地显现了情报文化和治国文化碰撞之后引发的紧张局面——一种文化的驱动因素是，尽可能多地吸纳敏感材料的需求；而另一种文化则把外交目标摆在首位。
It also reinforces the problem that surfaced a year ago in the wake of revelations about National Security Agency surveillance practices from the rogue contractor Edward J. Snowden: whether the costs of spying on close allies outweigh the gains.
此案还强化了一年前美国国家安全局（NationalSecurityAgency，简称NSA）承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露该局情报活动之后浮现的一个问题，即刺探亲密盟友是否会得不偿失？
At the White House, senior officials have expressed concern that the latest allegations could set back relations with Germany just as Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel are still struggling to move past the distrust generated by the Snowden disclosures, including the embarrassing revelation that the N.S.A. had tapped Ms. Merkel’s mobile phone.
在白宫，高级官员对最新的指控可能会挫伤美德关系表达了关切。时至今日，奥巴马和默克尔仍在为抹除斯诺登泄密所引发的不信任感而煞费苦心，NSA窃听默克尔手机一事就是被尴尬曝光的内容之一。
What is particularly baffling to these officials is that the C.I.A. did not inform the White House that its agent — a 31-year-old employee of Germany’s federal intelligence service, the BND — had been compromised, given his arrest the day before the two leaders spoke. According to German news media reports, the agency may have been aware three weeks before the arrest that the German authorities were monitoring the man.
中情局没有把其手下的特工——一名31岁的德国联邦情报局(BND)雇员已经被捕的消息通报给白宫，介于此事发生在两位领导人通话的前一天，中情局的行为让这些官员感到格外的困惑。据德国媒体报道，中情局在三周之前可能就意识到，德国当局在监视这名特工。
A central question, one American official said, is how high the information about the agent went in the C.I.A.’s command — whether it was bottled up at the level of the station chief in Berlin or transmitted to senior officials, including the director, John O. Brennan, who is responsible for briefing the White House.
一名美国官员说，核心的问题是，这名特工的消息进入了中情局指挥链哪个级别的官员耳中——它是否被卡在了柏林分站站长那里，还是说被传达给了包括中情局局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)在内的高官。布伦南的责任之一就是向白宫汇报情况。
For all his concerns, Mr. Obama does not plan any extraordinary outreach to Ms. Merkel, an official said, noting that some in the administration also feel that Germany should not overreact to the case or conflate it with the privacy issues raised by the N.S.A.’s surveillance.
一名官员说，虽说奥巴马十分关注此事，但他并不打算为此事而特地联系默克尔。这名官员指出，政府中的某些人还认为，德国不应对此案反应过激，或是把此案和NSA监控项目引发的隐私问题混为一谈。
Some experts say the recent tensions betray a lack of attention in Washington to its relationship with Berlin. “Bush and especially Obama have treated it as a ‘solved problem’ requiring no further American involvement,” said John C. Kornblum, a former American ambassador to Germany. “Recent events have demonstrated that just the opposite is the case. Germany is still deeply conflicted about itself and about the world around it.”
一些专家表示，最近的紧张态势暴露了政府对美德关系缺乏关注。美国驻德国前大使约翰·C·科恩布卢姆(John C. Kornblum)说，“布什(Bush)和奥巴马，特别是奥巴马认为，美德关系是一个‘业已解决的问题’，美国没必要再为它操心。最近的事件显示，情况正好相反。德国对自己和外部世界的看法依然是极其矛盾的。”
The White House and the C.I.A. both declined to comment on the case, with a spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin M. Hayden, saying, “We’re certainly not going to discuss who knew what and when in regards to the allegations.”
白宫和CIA均拒绝置评此案，国家安全委员会女发言人特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M. Hayden)则表示，“我们肯定不会讨论有谁知道了此次指控，都知道了什么，以及是何时知道的。”
On Tuesday, the chairwoman and the ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee said in separate interviews that Mr. Brennan had briefed them about the matter, but they refused to divulge any details of the conversations.
周二，参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)的主席和资深委员分别在不同的采访中表示，布伦南已向委员们通报了此事，不过他们拒绝披露双方谈话的细节。
Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who is chairwoman of the committee, expressed concern about the damage that could come to American-German relations. “We need to relook at this whole situation, how we handle our allies,” said Ms. Feinstein, who said she met with German parliamentarians who she said were “very upset” by the reports.
情报委员会的女主席、加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)对此事可能给美德关系造成的伤害表示关切。“我们需要重新审视大局，审视我们是怎么处理和盟友的关系的。”范斯坦说，她说自己会见了德国议员，后者表示，此案的报道让他们感到“十分不安”。