ROME — By Monday morning, the grim, if now familiar, global ritual had begun. Leaders across Europe, Asia and elsewhere sent messages of sympathy and outrage. Editorialists opined against extremism and violence. Symbolic gestures — another special lighting of the Eiffel Tower — were announced. Solidarity hashtags circled the virtual globe.
罗马——至周一上午，严肃的全球仪式已经开启，只不过现在人们比较熟悉了。欧洲、亚洲和其他地区的领导人发出表示同情和愤怒的讯息。各地的社论针对极端主义和暴力发表反对意见。具有象征意义的动作出现——埃菲尔铁塔再次亮起特殊的灯光。显示团结一致的标签在全球网络世界中流行开来。
The Orlando, Florida, attack now ranks as the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. And the horrific slaughter early Sunday at a gay nightclub has a uniquely American component, again demonstrating an easy access to high-caliber assault weapons that stupefies much of the rest of the world.
佛罗里达州奥兰多的袭击目前被列为美国历史上遇害人数最多的大规模枪击事件。周日凌晨在一家同性恋夜店发生的这一骇人听闻的屠杀事件带有独一无二的美国元素，又一次显示出袭击者可以轻易获得足以令世界许多地区错愕的大口径攻击武器。
But judging from the initial reaction, the attack in Florida resonated globally on Monday not as an American anomaly, but because it felt so universal. Orlando now takes a place with Paris, Brussels, Beirut, Bamako, San Bernardino, and other cities struck by different incarnations of terrorism in recent years. Candles were once lit in their honor, too.
然而，从最初的反应看，佛罗里达袭击事件不是作为美国的异常现象周一在全球各地引发回响，而是因为它让人感觉如此普遍。奥兰多现在加入了巴黎、布鲁塞尔、贝鲁特、巴马科、圣贝纳迪诺和其他城市之列，它们在最近几年遭到恐怖主义的不同化身袭击。蜡烛也曾经为纪念它们而点起。
The Orlando attack is already stirring debate on some of the most visceral fault lines of American politics: terrorism and Islamophobia, security and civil liberties, gun control and gay rights. But absent guns, those issues also resonate across the world, especially in many developed countries wrestling with how to maintain their freedoms in the face of violent attacks on their values.
奥兰多袭击事件已经激发了有关美国政治里一些最内在的断层的辩论：恐怖主义和伊斯兰恐惧症，安全与公民自由，控枪和同性恋权益。但除了有关枪械的讨论，所有这些问题也在全世界获得共鸣，尤其是很多发达国家——在价值观面临暴力袭击时如何维护自由正令他们陷入挣扎。
In an interconnected world, what seemed most relevant was what bound together the satirists of Charlie Hebdo, the heavy metal fans at the Bataclan, the tourists at the Brussels airport and the young people dancing early Sunday morning at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando — not what divided them and their societies.
在一个相互关联的世界里，看起来最切合的答案是将《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的讽刺画家、巴塔克兰音乐厅的重金属音乐爱好者、布鲁塞尔机场的游客和周日凌晨在奥兰多“Pulse”夜店里跳舞的年轻人连结在一起的东西——而不是将他们和自己所在的社会分隔开的东西。
But that connectedness also meant that Orlando quickly became politicized globally, as well as in the United States. One organization campaigning for Britain to leave the European Union in the June 23 national referendum posted a campaign message on Twitter that showed Islamic State fighters warning of an “Orlando-style atrocity” if Britain remained in the European bloc. The group deleted the tweet after the person who posted it was widely condemned.
然而，这种连通性也意味着奥兰多很快就不仅在美国变成政治化的议题，在全球也是如此。主张英国在6月23日全民公投中脱离欧盟的一个倡导组织，在Twitter上发布了一条拉票帖子，显示伊斯兰国(Islamic State)圣战分子发出警告，如果英国依然留在欧盟里，就有可能发生“奥兰多式的惨剧”。在发布这条帖子的人遭到广泛谴责之后，该组织将它删除了。
For many gays, lesbians and transgender people, the Orlando attack was a searing moment, highlighting the continued threats they face from an ideologically varied array of sources even as much of the world grows more inclusive about sexuality. In London, Owen Jones, a liberal columnist who is gay, walked off the set of a Sky News program after arguing with the host on how the Orlando attack should be defined. Jones argued it was both a terrorist attack and an anti-gay hate crime, while the program’s host sought to make a distinction between the two.
对很多同性恋和跨性别者而言，奥兰多袭击事件是一个极度刺痛的时刻，突显出他们从各种思想意识源头遭遇的持续不断的威胁，尽管世界许多地方对性取向正变得越来越包容。在伦敦，同性恋者、自由派专栏作家欧文·琼斯(Owen Jones)在天空新闻台(Sky News)录制节目时，与主持人就该如何定义奥兰多袭击发生争执，随即离开了现场。琼斯认为，它不仅是恐怖袭击，也是反同性恋的仇恨犯罪行为，而节目主持人则试图将二者区分来看。
“This guy, however he dresses up his bigotry and hatred, is someone who hates gays,” Jones said of the killer, adding: “If he went into a synagogue and killed innocent Jewish people, as people have done, disgusting anti-Semitic terrorists, we’d call it out for what it is.
“就算再努力粉饰自己的偏执与仇恨，这个家伙也还是一个仇恨同性恋的人，”琼斯如此评价那名凶手。他还表示：“如果他是走进了一座犹太教堂，杀死了无辜的犹太人——过去就有这样的事情发生——那么我们就会如实说这是令人发指的反犹恐怖分子。”
“This was a homophobic hate crime as well as terrorism.”
“这既是仇恨同性恋的犯罪行为，也是恐怖主义。”
Europe’s mainstream political leaders were quick to offer condolences on Monday and affirm their friendship with the American people. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany condemned “such a murderous attack” and declared a determination to “continue our open, tolerant life.”
欧洲主流政治领导人很快在周一表示了慰问，申明他们与美国人民的友谊。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)对袭击事件进行谴责，称之为“凶残至极的袭击”，并宣布决心“继续我们开放、包容的生活。”
Tel Aviv’s City Hall was bathed in the colors of the rainbow and the American flag on Sunday night. The town hall in Sydney, Australia, was lit in pink. In Britain, the cities of Blackpool and Liverpool said they would light local landmarks with rainbow colors on Monday night in memory of the victims.
周日晚上，特拉维夫市政厅亮起彩虹色的灯光，悬挂美国国旗。澳大利亚悉尼的市政厅沉浸在粉色灯光里。在英国，布莱克浦和利物浦表示会在周一晚上在当地的地标亮起彩虹色的灯，以纪念袭击事件中的受害者。
Even so, the Orlando killings come as far-right political parties in Europe are stoking anti-immigrant, anti-Muslim sentiments in a similar vein to Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee in the United States. As Trump quickly seized on the massacre to renew his call to view Muslim immigrants as a threat, some politicians in the European right did the same.
尽管如此，奥兰多杀戮事件发生的时机却恰逢欧洲右翼政党在煽动反移民、反穆斯林情绪。他们与在美国稳获共和党总统提名的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)论调类似。特朗普很快利用这场袭击重申他的呼吁，主张将穆斯林移民作为一种威胁来看待，而欧洲一些右翼政客也采取了相同的做法。
Hungary’s right-wing government has been in the vanguard on resisting migrants, and championing a so-called illiberal democracy. On Monday, Lajos Kosa, the parliamentary leader of the governing party, invoked the Orlando attacks as a cudgel to repeat the party’s campaign against migrants from Syria and other Muslim nations.
匈牙利的右翼政府一直站在抵制移民的前列，支持一种所谓的自由民主。周一，匈牙利执政党的议会领袖洛约什·科沙(Lajos Kosa)将奥兰多袭击事件用作一件武器，重申该党反对来自叙利亚等穆斯林国家的移民的主张。
“Uncontrolled migration, forced resettlement, the inflow of crowds into European society who not only cannot but do not want to integrate, come with enormous dangers,” Kosa told a plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament on Monday.
“不受控制的移民、强制性的安置，以及大批不仅没有能力而且无意融入欧洲社会的人群涌入，会带来巨大的危险，”洛约什·科沙周一在匈牙利议会全体会议上发言。
For years, the United States’ liberal gun laws, and the unwillingness of Congress to change them, have mystified people in many other countries.
多年来，美国放任自流的枪支管理法规和国会不情愿修改这些法律的状况，令其他许多国家的人迷惑不解。
In Japan, the American gun issue is treated as a bizarre aberration, and much of the news media coverage of the Orlando killings focused on the terrorism angle. Only one person was killed by a gun last year in Japan, according to the National Police Agency, and there were only eight reported incidents of a gun being fired.
在日本，美国的枪支问题被看作奇异的反常现象，该国有关奥兰多杀戮事件的众多报道着重于恐怖主义的角度。据日本警察厅统计，去年全国只有一人遭枪杀，仅有八起被报道的枪击事件。