WASHINGTON — President Obama and Ukraine’s interim prime minister opened the door on Wednesday to a political solution that could lead to more autonomy for Crimea if Russian troops withdraw, as the United States embarked on a last-ditch diplomatic effort to defuse a crisis that reignited tensions between East and West.
华盛顿——本周三，美国发起了最后的外交努力，以化解一场重新激化东西方紧张关系的危机，在此背景下，奥巴马总统和乌克兰临时总理开启了以政治方案解决危机的大门，如果俄罗斯同意撤军，该方案将使克里米亚获得更大程度的自治。
The tentative feeler came as Mr. Obama dispatched Secretary of State John Kerry to London to meet with his Russian counterpart on Friday, two days before a Russian-supported referendum in Crimea on whether to secede from Ukraine. Mr. Obama said the world would “completely reject” what he called a “slapdash election,” but added he still hoped for a peaceful settlement.
就在相关方面发出初步试探信号之际，奥巴马派遣国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)前往伦敦于本周五会见俄罗斯外长，会见举行两天后，克里米亚将在俄罗斯支持下，就是否退出乌克兰举行公投。奥巴马称这是一场“草率的公投”，会遭到全世界的“彻底反对”，不过他还说，自己依然希望能和平解决危机。
In a show of solidarity for the besieged Ukraine, Mr. Obama hosted a White House visit by Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk, the country’s pro-Western acting prime minister, and vowed to “stand with Ukraine.” But he also hinted at a formulation that could be the basis for the coming talks between Mr. Kerry and Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, recognizing Moscow’s interest in helping the Russian-speaking population in Crimea while affirming that it is part of Ukraine.
为了显示美国和受困的乌克兰团结一心，奥巴马在白宫接见了到访的乌克兰临时总理阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)。在会晤这位亲西方领导人的过程中，奥巴马承诺，会“站在乌克兰一边”。不过，他也暗示性地提出了一个构想，即承认莫斯科在协助克里米亚俄语居民方面的权益，同时确认克里米亚是乌克兰的一部分，这个构想可能会构成克里和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)即将举行的会谈的基础。
Mr. Obama said Mr. Yatsenyuk told him that a new Ukrainian government formed after elections scheduled for May 25 could find ways to address Crimea’s concerns. “There is a constitutional process in place and a set of elections that they can move forward on that, in fact, could lead to different arrangements over time with the Crimean region,” Mr. Obama said. “But that is not something that can be done with the barrel of a gun pointed at you.”
奥巴马说，亚采纽克对他说，在预定于5月25日举行的选举结束之后，新组建的乌克兰政府会找到解决克里米亚问题的办法。奥巴马说，“宪法程序已经到位，他们还有一系列可以推动的选举，实际上，随着时间的推移，这些选举也许会为克里米亚地区带来不同的安排。然而，这不是用枪管指着某人就能完成的事情。”
At a separate appearance later in the day, Mr. Yatsenyuk expressed willingness to consider concessions to Crimea. “We the Ukrainian government are ready to start a nationwide dialogue how to increase the rights of autonomous Republic of Crimea, starting with taxes and ending with other aspects like language issues,” he told an audience at the Atlantic Council.
在当日晚些时候的另一次露面中，亚采纽克表示，愿意考虑对克里米亚做出让步。他在大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)对听众说，“乌克兰政府已准备开启全国性的对话，讨论如何增加克里米亚自治共和国的权利，我们会从税收开始，最终讨论语言等其他方面的问题。”
Any such discussion, he added, had to take place in a “constitutional manner” rather than imposed by Russian troops. But he did not rule out holding a local referendum if authorized by the Ukrainian Parliament. “Only afterward, this referendum could be a constitutional one,” he said.
他还说，任何类似讨论都必须以“符合宪法规定的形式”进行，而不是在俄罗斯军队的强迫下进行。不过，他没有排除举行地方性公投的可能性，前提是公投能获得乌克兰议会的授权。他说，“只有获得授权的公投，才是合乎宪法的公投。”
Mr. Yatsenyuk also tried to reassure Moscow by saying he respects the longstanding agreement permitting a Russian naval base in Crimea, and that Ukraine would make no provocative moves like cutting off water, electricity and other supplies to the peninsula, which has no direct land connection to Russia.
亚采纽克还试图通过以下表示来打消俄罗斯的疑虑，他说他尊重俄乌之间关于允许俄罗斯在克里米亚保留海军基地的长期协议，乌克兰不会做出断水断电和切断对半岛的其他供应等挑衅性的行动。克里米亚半岛和俄罗斯并不直接接壤。
But he used his visit to Washington to make clear that despite his preference for talks, his government would not accept partition of the country. “Mr. President,” he told Mr. Obama in the Oval Office, “it’s all about the freedom. We fight for our freedom. We fight for our independence. We fight for our sovereignty. And we will never surrender.”
不过，亚采纽克还是利用对华盛顿的出访清晰地表明，尽管他倾向于对话，然而他的政府不会接受国家分裂。他在椭圆形办公室对奥巴马说，“总统先生，说到底，这全都是为了自由。我们为乌克兰的自由而战。我们为乌克兰的独立而战。我们为乌克兰的主权而战。我们不会投降。”
Mr. Kerry employed similarly tough language during testimony Wednesday on Capitol Hill, where he said the United States and its partners were prepared to impose tough sanctions if Russia moved to annex Crimea. “It can get ugly fast if the wrong choices are made, and it can get ugly in multiple directions,” he said. “Our hope is that there is a way to have a reasonable outcome here.”
在本周三于国会山举行的听证会上，克里采用了同样强硬的措辞。他在听证会上说，美国及其伙伴已准备就绪，如果俄罗斯一意孤行地吞并克里米亚，美国将采取严厉的制裁措施。他说，“如果做出错误的选择，形势有可能迅速恶化，并且是在很多方面。我们的希望是，找到一条途径，合情合理地解决此事。”
In fact, he suggested the two sides could continue talking even if Sunday’s referendum is held, as long as Russia stops short of annexation. “There are a lot of variants here, which is why it is urgent that we have this conversation with the Russians,” he said. The United States has “exchanged some thoughts” with Moscow on how to address the crisis, he said, but the two sides “haven’t had a meeting of the minds.”
事实上，他提出，只要俄罗斯不进行吞并，那么即使星期天的公投照常举行，双方仍然可以继续对话。他表示，“目前存在很多的变数，这就是为什么我们急切地需要和俄罗斯对话。”他还说，美国政府已经和俄罗斯政府就如何应对此次危机“交换了一些意见”，但双方的看法并不一致。