WASHINGTON — Senator Max Baucus of Montana, soon to be nominated as President Obama’s next ambassador to China, is the powerful — and, to many fellow Democrats, infuriating — chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. He is also the conflicted architect of Mr. Obama’s health care law.
华盛顿——蒙大拿州参议员马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)即将被提名为奥巴马总统的下一任驻华大使，此人是颇有权势的参议院财政委员会(Senate Finance Committee)主席,在很多民主党人眼中还有些让人着恼。他还是饱受争议的奥巴马医疗改革法设计师。
Now, if he is confirmed, Mr. Baucus, who had already announced that he would not run for re-election in 2014, will join the administration whose bureaucratic ineptitude he foresaw in April when he warned of a “huge train wreck” if officials did not do a better job explaining the Affordable Care Act.
此前，鲍卡斯已宣布他不会参加2014年的连任竞选；现在，如果提名得到确认的话，他就将加入政府，而他早在今年4月就预见了这个政府的官僚主义缺陷，当时他提出警告，如果官员不把《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的解释工作做得更好，就会出现一起“大事故”。
A Democratic official said Mr. Obama settled on Mr. Baucus to succeed Gary Locke, the current ambassador, for reasons that include his efforts to bring down trade barriers between China and the United States and his insistence that “China play by internationally accepted rules” regarding currency, intellectual property, labor and human rights.
一名民主党官员称，奥巴马之所以决定让鲍卡斯来接替现任大使骆家辉(Gary Locke)，是因为鲍卡斯曾致力于消除中美之间的贸易壁垒，并坚持认为中国应该在货币、知识产权、劳工权利和人权方面“按国际社会普遍接受的标准行事”。
The senator’s departure would also remove a Democrat who has been a thorn in his party’s side, and would clear the way for Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana to appoint a fellow Democrat, most likely Lt. Gov. John Walsh, as interim senator. Mr. Walsh, who has already declared for Mr. Baucus’s seat, would be a strong candidate next November in a race crucial to the party’s continued control of the chamber.
此外，他的离开将移除民主党内部的一根眼中钉，还将为蒙大拿州州长史蒂夫·布洛克(Steve Bullock)任命另一名民主党人担任临时参议员扫清道路，这个人极有可能是副州长约翰·沃尔什(John Walsh)。明年11月，已宣布竞逐鲍卡斯席位的沃尔什将成为一名有力选手，参与对民主党继续控制参议院来说至关重要的一场竞争。
Mr. Baucus, Montana’s longest-serving senator, was also a strong advocate for a tax overhaul, and his leaving is likely to decrease any momentum for that initiative, pleasing Democrats who are unenthusiastic about it. But it is health care, more than any other issue, that has defined Mr. Baucus in recent years.
鲍卡斯是蒙大拿州任职时间最长的参议员，也是税收整改的坚定支持者，他的离开很可能会减小这条动议的势头，让对它不感兴趣的民主党人感到高兴。但是，近年来，最能说明鲍卡斯这个人的还是医改法案，而不是其他任何问题。
In a wide-ranging conversation on the health overhaul in his Capitol Hill office last week, before Wednesday’s news of his impending nomination, Mr. Baucus said he had a “flash of anger” over its bungled rollout. He also said that the law did not do enough to control costs and that Kathleen Sebelius, Mr. Obama’s health secretary, and her top aides delivered only “platitudes” when he asked them for specifics on how they would carry out the health overhaul.
上周，在鲍卡斯即将获得提名的消息披露以前，他和其他人在他位于国会山的办公室里就医疗改革进行了广泛讨论。他当时说，他对医改法案出师不利的局面感到“非常愤怒”。他还表示，医疗法案在成本控制方面做得不够，当他向奥巴马的卫生部长凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)及其首席助手询问医疗整改实施细节时，他们说的都是“陈词滥调”。
“The more I asked,” he said, “the more concerned I became.”
“问得越多，”他说。“我越感到担心。”
But today the law is as much Mr. Baucus’s legacy as Mr. Obama’s. In 2009, it fell to Mr. Baucus to shepherd the health measure through the Senate by dint of his committee chairmanship and the death of the chamber’s leading voice on health care, Edward M. Kennedy. Although he remains a champion, and says Americans will ultimately embrace it, he expects it might take a decade.
但是，医改法案如今不光是鲍卡斯的业绩，也是奥巴马的业绩。2009年，参议院中主要的医改支持者爱德华·M·肯尼迪(Edward M. Kennedy)过世后，鲍卡斯便凭借自己的委员会主席身份，承担起了使医改方案在参议院得到通过的任务。鲍卡斯仍然对医疗法案表示支持，并且说美国人最终会接受它，但据他的估计，这可能需要10年的时间。
“Max has always made some Democrats nervous — his fateful words about the Obamacare train wreck have turned out to be very true,” said John E. Sununu, the Republican former senator from New Hampshire.
“马克斯总是让一些民主党人觉得紧张——事实已经证明，他关于奥巴马医改会出事故的不详预言都是真的，”前新罕布什尔州共和党参议员约翰·E·苏努努(John E. Sununu)说。
The act is hugely unpopular in Montana, and some analysts say it could have cost Mr. Baucus, who has been in the Senate 35 years, his re-election in 2014. At 72 and newly remarried, he said last week that he was ready for “a whole new adventure, a whole new chapter.”
这个法案在蒙大拿州非常不受欢迎，一些分析人士还说，已经在参议院待了35年的鲍卡斯可能会因为它而在2014年的连任竞选中落败。72岁的鲍卡斯刚刚再婚，他上周表示，他已经为“一次全新的冒险，一个全新的篇章”做好了准备。
He continues to fret that the health care law had no Republican support in either the Senate or the House. “It is my belief that for major legislation to be durable, sustainable, it has to be bipartisan,” Mr. Baucus said. “I mean, one party can’t jam legislation down the other party’s throat. It leaves a bitter taste.”
鲍卡斯仍然感到苦恼，因为医保法没有获得参议院和众议院共和党人的支持。“我认为，重要法案要想稳定持久，就必须获得两党的支持，”鲍卡斯说。“我的意思是，一个政党无法将法案硬塞进另一个政党的喉咙。强扭的瓜不甜。”
Scion of a prominent and mostly Republican Montana ranching family, Mr. Baucus has always been an introvert, unusual for a politician. He is not one for big speeches or the Sunday talk shows — he stuttered as a child and still struggles with it slightly.
鲍卡斯是蒙大拿州一个知名牧场经营家族的后裔，大部分家庭成员都支持共和党。鲍卡斯一直性格内向，这对于政治人物来说并不寻常。他不善于高谈阔论，也不适合周日访谈节目，他小时候说话结结巴巴，现在依然有轻微的口吃。
He settled on a career in public service after “an epiphany,” he said, while backpacking in the 1960s in what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo, during a break from his studies at Stanford University. He eventually graduated, and got a law degree there. One former Baucus chief of staff, Jon Selib, echoed the views of many when he said the senator “marches to the beat of his own drummer.”
他表示，20纪60年代，他中断在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的学习去今天的刚果民主共和国(Democratic Republic of Congo)徒步旅行，其间获得了“顿悟”，由此决定致力于公众服务。他最终完成了该校的学业，并获得了法律学位。鲍卡斯的前办公室主任乔恩·塞利博(Jon Selib)称鲍卡斯“按自己的鼓点前行”，这个看法跟其他许多人一样。
In 2001 Mr. Baucus defied Tom Daschle, then the Senate Democratic leader, by co-writing President George W. Bush’s tax cuts, setting off screaming matches between the two Democrats.
2001年，鲍卡斯参与拟订乔治·W·布什总统(President George W. Bush)减税政策，公然反抗当时的参议院民主党领袖汤姆·达施勒(Tom Daschle)，因此与后者发生激烈口角。
As Mr. Obama ran for president in 2008, with universal health care coverage as a major campaign theme, Mr. Baucus began preparing for the legislation. He held hearings, convened a bipartisan retreat and spent months pursuing Republicans on his committee, and eventually got one — Olympia J. Snowe of Maine — to vote for the measure. “He was relentless,” said Ms. Snowe, now retired. She ultimately rejected the more liberal bill fashioned by the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid.
2008年，奥巴马还在参加总统竞选，并将全民医保作为一个主要的竞选纲领。从那时起，鲍卡斯便开始为医保法案做准备。他举行听证会，召集两党非正式会议，并花了几个月的时间来劝说其委员会的共和党人，最终促使缅因州共和党参议员奥林匹娅·J·斯诺(Olympia J.Snowe)投票支持此项举措。现已退休的斯诺表示，“当时他真是不依不饶。”斯诺最终拒绝支持参议院民主党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)提出的更加宽松的法案。
The courtship frustrated Democrats, who said that Mr. Baucus was jeopardizing the bill’s chances. Among the critics was Jim Messina, a former Baucus aide who regards the senator as a second father and was then Mr. Obama’s deputy chief of staff.
他向共和党示好的行为让民主党人感到失望，他们称鲍卡斯是在破坏法案获得通过的机会。批评人士包括鲍卡斯的前助手、后来曾任奥巴马副幕僚长的吉姆·梅西纳(Jim Messina)，他像敬重父亲一样敬重鲍卡斯。
“I thought the negotiations with Republicans went on too long and was very loud in my opinion about that,” Mr. Messina said.
梅西纳说，“当时我认为与共和党的谈判持续了太长时间，并且十分明确地表达了这个观点。”
But Republicans gave Mr. Baucus credit. “It was a very, very difficult assignment for him,” said Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah.
共和党人却对鲍卡斯赞赏有加。犹他州共和党参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)表示，“对于他来说，那是一件非常非常困难的任务。”
Mr. Baucus says the “train wreck” remark grew out of his frustration with administration officials whose testimony on the readiness of HealthCare.gov, the online insurance exchange, “didn’t pass the smell test.” He said that it was intended as a message to the White House and that he did not regret it.
鲍卡斯表示，“事故”言论源于自己对政府官员的失望，这些官员提供的有关在线保险交易网站HealthCare.gov准备就绪的证词“连嗅觉测试都通不过”。鲍卡斯称，当时他是希望通过这样的言论向白宫传递讯息，现在也不后悔说了这些话。
“Got their attention,” he said.
他说，“确实引起了他们的注意。”
Looking ahead, Mr. Baucus said last week that he viewed himself as an “enabler in chief” who could help the administration put the law on stable footing before he retired. On Wednesday, after news of his impending nomination leaked out, he waved off reporters, saying simply, “It is not for me to discuss.”
上周，鲍卡斯在展望未来时表示，他认为自己是一个“主要的推动者”，能够在退休前帮助政府将医保法稳步落实。周三，在他即将获得提名的风声走漏之后，他拒绝接受记者采访，只是说，”这不是我该讨论的事情。”