After Malia Obama went off to Harvard University last month, her father couldn’t hold back the tears.
上个月，在马莉娅·奥巴马(Malia Obama)前往哈佛大学之后，她的父亲难以抑制自己的泪水。
Barack Obama described that moment on Monday in a speech for the Beau Biden Foundation for the Protection of Children, which was named for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden’s older son, who died of brain cancer in 2015.
周一，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)在博·拜登儿童保护基金会(Beau Biden Foundation for the Protection of Children)的一次演讲中描述了那一时刻。该基金会是以前副总统约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden)的长子命名的，他因脑癌于2015年去世。
The former president said some kind words about Beau and his parents, Joe and Jill Biden, before talking about the joys and sorrows of watching children grow up.
前总统称赞了博·拜登和他的父母乔·拜登和吉尔·拜登(Jill Biden)，然后谈论了看着孩子长大的乐趣和悲伤。
“For those of us who have daughters, it just happens fast,” Mr. Obama said in a video published by WDEL, a news outlet based in Wilmington, Del.
“对于我们这些有女儿的人来说，这一切都发生的太快了，”奥巴马在一段视频中说。该视频是由特拉华州威尔明顿(Wilmington)的新闻媒体WDEL发布的。
“I dropped off Malia at college, and I was saying to Joe and Jill that it was a little bit like open-heart surgery, and I was proud that I did not cry in front of her. But on the way back, the Secret Service was all looking straight ahead pretending they weren’t hearing me as I sniffled and blew my nose. It was rough.”
“我把马莉娅送到了学校，然后跟乔和吉尔说，这真有点像心脏外科手术。我很自豪没有在她面前哭出来。但在回去的路上，特勤组的人都目视前方，假装没有听到我抽泣和擤鼻涕。这可真难熬。”
Mr. Biden introduced Mr. Obama at the Wilmington Country Club in Delaware on Monday, calling him a “great friend.”
周一在威尔明顿乡村俱乐部，拜登介绍奥巴马时称他为“好朋友”。
Malia, 19, took a gap year after high school and opted to attend Harvard this year, despite her father’s advice that she could get a good education even if she did not attend “some name-brand, famous, fancy school.”
 马莉娅·奥巴马今年19岁，高中毕业后过了一年间隔年，今年选择进入哈佛大学就读。尽管她的父亲此前曾经表示，就算她没有入读“那些著名的、昂贵的名牌大学”，也能接受良好的教育。
Both Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, attended law school at Harvard.
奥巴马和他的夫人米歇尔(Michelle)都曾在哈佛大学法学院就读。
Mr. Obama has let the tears flow in public on a number of occasions, including when he spoke shortly after the death of his grandmother in November 2008; when he thanked his campaign staff after winning re-election in November 2012; and during a speech about gun violence in January 2016.
奥巴马曾多次在公开场合流泪，包括在2008年11月，他的外祖母去世后不久的一次讲话中；2012年11月成功连任后，对他的竞选团队表示感谢时；以及2016年1月，在一次关于枪支暴力的演讲中。
The Obamas are likely to remain in Washington at least until their younger daughter, Sasha, 16, finishes high school. They spent $8.1 million on a home in the capital’s Kalorama neighborhood after leaving the White House.
至少在他们现年16岁的小女儿萨莎(Sasha)高中毕业前，奥巴马一家仍将在华盛顿居住。离开白宫后，他们斥资810万美元（约合5300万人民币）在首都的卡洛拉马社区(Kalorama)购置了房产。
In his speech on Monday, Mr. Obama praised the work of the Beau Biden Foundation, which is dedicated to protecting children from abuse.
在周一的演讲中，奥巴马对博·拜登基金会的工作表示了赞许。该基金会致力于保护儿童免遭虐待。
“At the end of our lives, whatever else we’ve accomplished, the thing that we’ll remember are the joys that our children — and hopefully, way later, our grandchildren — bring us,” he said.
奥巴马说，“当我们的生命走向尽头时，无论我们有什么样的成就，我们都会记得，我们的孩子——但愿还有之后我们的孙辈——给我们带来的欢乐。”
“And holding their hand, swinging them on a swing, listening to them talk about what had happened in school; simple stuff, but ultimately that’s what matters.”
“握着他们的手，为他们荡秋千，听他们讲学校里发生的事情。都是些简单不过的琐事，但归根结底，这才是最重要的事。”