WASHINGTON — President Obama and his family plan to move to a mansion in the upscale Kalorama neighborhood of Washington, a mere two miles from the White House, when he leaves office in January, according to people familiar with his plans.
华盛顿——据了解奥巴马总统(President Obama)计划的人说，他打算明年1月离任后和家人搬到华盛顿高档社区卡洛拉马(Kalorama)的一个宅邸，那里离白宫只有两英里远。
Mr. Obama, who has said his family will remain in the capital until his daughter Sasha completes high school in 2018, will rent the 8,200-square-foot, nine-bedroom home, the people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to reveal his plans.
奥巴马之前说过，他和家人将留在首都，直到2018年女儿萨莎(Sasha)完成高中学业。知情人说，他将租下这个占地8200平方英尺、有九个卧室的房子。这些人是在匿名情况下提供这一信息的，因为他们未获授权透露他的计划。
The house — valued around $6 million, according to several real estate websites, with an estimated monthly rent of $22,000 on Zillow — is owned by Joe Lockhart, a former press secretary and senior adviser to Bill Clinton. Mr. Lockhart was until this year the managing director of a communications and political consulting practice he founded, the Glover Park Group, but has moved to Manhattan to become executive vice president for communications for the National Football League.
据几个房地产网站的数据，这座房子大约价值600万美元，Zillow网站上估计的月租金为2.2万美元。房主是乔·洛克哈特(Joe Lockhart)，他曾担任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的新闻秘书和高级顾问。他还曾担任自己创立的传播与政治顾问公司Glover Park Group的总经理，直至去年。现在他已经搬到曼哈顿，担任美国全国橄榄球联盟(National Football League)传播事务执行副总裁。
Mr. Lockhart and his wife, Giovanna Gray Lockhart, an editor at Glamour magazine, would not comment on the matter, referring queries to the White House. Jennifer Friedman, the deputy White House press secretary, also declined to comment on the president’s plans, first reported on Wednesday by Politico.
洛克哈特和身为《魅力》杂志(Glamour)编辑的妻子吉奥万娜·格雷·洛克哈特(Giovanna Gray Lockhart)不愿就此事发表评论，建议询问白宫。白宫副新闻秘书詹妮弗·弗里德曼(Jennifer Friedman)也拒绝就总统的这一计划发表评论。这个消息最初是《政治》杂志(Politico)周三披露的。
The move will put the Obamas in one of Washington’s wealthiest ZIP codes, in a secluded precinct backing up to Rock Creek Park that is home to diplomats and a focal point of the capital’s cocktail-party circuit. The home itself is luxurious; photographs posted by Washington Fine Properties, which listed it when it sold in 2014, show spacious rooms with hardwood floors, white marble countertops, his-and-her master bathrooms and a terrace with formal gardens.
搬家后，奥巴马一家将住进华盛顿最富有的一个区域。它背靠岩溪公园(Rock Creek Park)，是一个非常私密的社区，很多外交官在这里安家，华盛顿的鸡尾酒会常在这里举办。这座宅邸本身也很奢华。房子2014年售出时曾挂在Washington Fine Properties网站上，从当时发布的照片看，它有着宽敞的房间，实木地板，白色大理石台面，男女主人各自的卫生间，以及一个有着规整花园的露台。
It also has an “au pair suite” that could be suitable for Marian Robinson, Michelle Obama’s mother, who has lived with the family in the White House.
大宅还配有“老人套房”，可能比较适合米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的母亲玛丽安·鲁宾逊(Marian Robinson)——她一直和这家人一起住在白宫。
The location appears to meet Mr. Obama’s need to accommodate the Secret Service contingent that remains with a president after leaving office. A gated courtyard on the side has space for several vehicles and the addition of a guardhouse.
总统离任后，仍会得到特勤队保护。这个地方似乎能满足奥巴马安置特勤的需求。房子侧面的封闭式庭院有可以容纳若干停车位和一个门房的空间。
The neighborhood already has a sizable security presence because of its proximity to the stretch of Massachusetts Avenue known as Embassy Row. The Obamas will live down the block from the embassy of Oman and the European Union ambassador to the United States, and around the corner from Gérard Araud, the French ambassador known for entertaining often at his Tudor Revival mansion.
这个区域本来就有规模可观的保安队伍，因为它毗邻被称为使馆街的马萨诸塞大街(Massachusetts Avenue)。奥巴马的新家距离阿曼使馆和欧盟驻美代表处仅有一个街区，转过弯就是法国大使热拉尔·阿罗(Gérard Araud)的官邸，人们知道他经常在这个都铎复兴风格的官邸款待客人。
“It’s a very quiet neighborhood; that’s part of the reason why all of us like it there,” said Tony Podesta, a well-connected Democratic lobbyist and brother of John D. Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman.
“那是一个非常安静的社区，这是我们都喜欢它的一个原因，”人脉很广的民主党说客托尼·波德斯塔(Tony Podesta)说。他和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)竞选团队主席约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)是亲兄弟。
Mr. Podesta, who lives two doors from the house the Obamas will rent, invites neighbors for pizza parties in his backyard, where he has a pizza oven. Several times a day, a line of parked taxis snakes down the street, their occupants drawn to the Islamic Center on the block for Muslim prayers.
波德斯塔的住宅与奥巴马一家即将租住的房子仅隔两户人家。他经常邀请邻居们去他家后院参加披萨派对，那里设有一个披萨烤箱。一天中有好几次，成排停放的出租车沿着街道蜿蜒排列，乘客们都是前往这个街区为穆斯林祈祷者设立的伊斯兰中心(Islamic Center)去的。
As news of the Obamas’ housing plans became public on Wednesday, journalists and news photographers flocked to the block. “My housekeeper was a little freaked out,” Mr. Podesta said.
周三，奥巴马租房计划的新闻曝出后，记者和新闻摄影师蜂拥前往这个街区。“我的管家有点被吓着了，”波德斯塔说。
While the Obamas still own a home in Chicago, the president said in March that his family would remain in the Washington area until Sasha, who attends the Sidwell Friends School, graduated from high school. The Obamas said this month that their older daughter Malia, who graduates from Sidwell next month, would take a gap year before enrolling at Harvard.
虽然奥巴马夫妇在芝加哥还有一个家，但今年3月总统说，他和家人将留在华盛顿地区，直到在希德威尔友谊学校(Sidwell Friends School)就读的萨莎高中毕业。本月，奥巴马夫妇说，他们的大女儿马莉娅(Malia)将在赴哈佛大学(Harvard)就读前度过一个“间隔年”。马莉娅下月将从希德威尔毕业。
Mr. Obama’s future home has a rich history. It was built in 1928 by F. Moran McConihe, a real estate developer who played an important role in the expansion of Kalorama and served in the General Services Administration under President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
奥巴马未来的家有着丰富的历史。它最初是房地产开发商F·莫兰·麦科尼(F. Moran McConihe)1928年修建的。麦科尼在卡洛拉马的扩张中起到过重要作用，他还曾在德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔总统(Dwight D. Eisenhower)政府的总务管理局(General Services Administration)任职。
It was bought by Capt. Charles Hamilton Maddox, a veteran of both world wars, who in 1912 designed and tested, in-flight, the first successful radio equipment used in Naval aircraft. His daughter, Muriel Maddox, acted alongside Marlon Brando in the movie “The Men” and wrote a number of romance novels.
后来，这所房子被海军上校查尔斯·汉密尔顿·马多克斯(Charles Hamilton Maddox)买下。他是一名老兵，曾参加两次世界大战。1912年，他设计了海军飞机上的无线电设备，并在飞行中首次测试成功。他的女儿缪丽尔·马多克斯(Muriel Maddox)曾出演马龙·白兰度(Marlon Brando)主演的影片《男儿本色》(The Men)，还写过一些爱情小说。
The neighborhood has long been home to prominent politicians, including Woodrow Wilson, William Howard Taft, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Warren G. Harding, Herbert Hoover and Senator Edward M. Kennedy. Last year, Donald H. Rumsfeld, a former defense secretary, sold the house in Kalorama that he lived in throughout the Bush administration.
长久以来，很多著名政治家曾在这个社区居住，包括伍德罗·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)、威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱(William Howard Taft)、富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)、沃伦·G·哈丁(Warren G. Harding)、赫伯特·胡佛(Herbert Hoover)，以及参议员爱德华·M·肯尼迪(Edward M. Kennedy)。去年，前国防部长唐纳德·H·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald H. Rumsfeld)卖掉了卡洛拉马的房子，布什执政期间他一直住在那里。
Residents describe the neighborhood as an oasis of residential calm in the middle of a bustling city.
卡洛拉马的居民们说，这个区域是这座繁忙城市里一个安静的绿洲。
“You can get almost anyplace in Washington that you want to go to in 15 minutes, but on the weekend, it’s like you’re in the country,” said Bart Gordon, a former Democratic congressman from Tennessee who is now with the law firm K & L Gates and will soon be the Obamas’ next-door neighbor. “He’ll be welcomed to the neighborhood; I just hope he doesn’t get too rowdy.”
“只需15分钟，你就能从这儿到达你想去的华盛顿的几乎任何地方，但是在周末，这里安静得像乡下，”田纳西州的前民主党国会议员巴特·戈登(Bart Gordon)说。他现在供职于高盖茨律所(K & L Gates)，很快会成为奥巴马的邻居。“我们欢迎他入住这个社区，我只是希望他不要太吵。”