RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — President Obama on Tuesday challenged Republicans to offer any plausible rationale for refusing to consider a Supreme Court candidate to replace Justice Antonin Scalia, who died last weekend, and he pledged to nominate someone with an “outstanding legal mind” who cares about democracy and the rule of law.
加利福尼亚州兰乔米拉奇——奥巴马总统在周二表示，共和党人拿不出任何像样的理由来拒绝考虑最高法院候选人选，以填补上周末去世的大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Justice Antonin Scalia)留下的空缺。奥巴马还承诺将提名一个具有“卓越的法律思维”、关心民主和法治的候选人。
“The Constitution is pretty clear about what is supposed to happen now,” Mr. Obama said during a news conference after a meeting in California with leaders of Southeast Asia. He said the Constitution demands that a president nominate someone for the court and the Senate either confirms or rejects.
“现在应该怎么做，宪法讲得很清楚，”奥巴马在加州与东南亚国家领导人举行会议后，在一个新闻发布会上说。他表示，宪法要求总统提名候选人，供法院和参议院确认或否决。
“There’s no unwritten law that says that it can only be done on off years,” Mr. Obama said. “That’s not in the Constitutional text.”
“没有不成文的法律说大选年不能这么做，”奥巴马说。“宪法文本中也没有那么写。”
Mr. Obama said he understood the political stakes of a nomination that could change the balance on the court. “I understand the pressure that Republican senators are now under,” he said. “This would be a deciding vote.”
奥巴马说，他很清楚一个可能会改变法院平衡的提名会在政治上有怎样的利害关系。“我理解共和党参议员现在面临的压力，”他说。“这个投票具有决定意义。”
But the president said the Supreme Court ought to be above political gamesmanship. “This will be a test of whether rules, norms, and fair play can function at all in Washington,” he said.
但是，奥巴马说，最高法院不应该被政治斗争所局限。“这是个测试，看看华盛顿是否在遵循规则、规范和公平竞争的原则，”他说。
Mr. Obama’s remarks were his first extensive public reaction to the roiling political forces unleashed by the death of Justice Scalia. He reiterated his intention to nominate a successor and called on the Senate to give that person a hearing, followed by a timely vote.
斯卡利亚大法官的去世掀起了政治势力的漩涡，奥巴马的这番言论，是他第一次对此事进行详尽的公开表态。他重申了自己提名一位继任者的打算，并呼吁参议院为此人召开一个听证会，然后及时进行投票。
“The Constitution is pretty clear about what is supposed to happen,” Mr. Obama said. “When there is a vacancy on the Supreme Court, the president of the United States is to nominate someone, the Senate is to consider that nomination. Either they disapprove of that nominee or that nominee is elevated to the Supreme Court.”
“现在应该怎么做，宪法讲得很清楚，”奥巴马说。“当最高法院出现空缺时，美国总统应该提名人选，参议院应该对提名加以考虑。他们或者否决这个人选，或者提拔这个人到最高法院。”
Mr. Obama made his comments shortly after Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said that he had not ruled out holding hearings on Mr. Obama’s eventual nominee to replace Justice Scalia on the Supreme Court.
奥巴马发表意见之前不久，参议院司法委员会(Senate Judiciary Committee)主席、艾奥瓦州共和党人查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)说，他仍然有可能为奥巴马的最终提名人选举行听证会，以填补斯卡利亚大法官在最高法院的空缺。
“I would wait until the nominee is made before I would make any decisions,” Mr. Grassley said, according to Radio Iowa. “This is a very serious position to fill and it should be filled and debated during the campaign and filled by either Hillary Clinton, Senator Sanders or whoever’s nominated by the Republicans.”
“我会等到提名出来，然后再做决定，”艾奥瓦电台(Radio Iowa)网站援引格拉斯利的话说，“这是一个非常重要的空缺，应该在竞选期间填补和讨论，由希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)、桑德斯参议员或共和党最终提名的那个人来填补。”
The remarks seemed to be a step back from Mr. Grassley’s statement on Saturday, in which he concurred with Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, and several other Republican senators, who said the vacancy ought to be filled by the next president.
这番话跟格拉斯利上周六的说法比起来似乎是一种让步，当时他与参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)以及其他一些共和党参议员的口径一致，表示这个空缺应该由下届总统来填补。
“It only makes sense that we defer to the American people who will elect a new president to select the next Supreme Court Justice,” Mr. Grassley said in a statement Saturday, after Mr. Scalia’s death was revealed.
“美国人选出新的总统，由新总统来提出最高法院下一位大法官的人选，这是唯一说得通的办法，”斯卡利亚过世的消息传出之后，格拉斯利上周六在一份声明中说。
But in 2008, Mr. Grassley argued against delays in the consideration of President George W. Bush’s judicial nominees by the Senate, then controlled by Democrats.
但2008年时，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统提名的法官人选在民主党主导的参议院里遭遇拖延战术时，格拉斯利曾表示反对。
Whether Mr. Grassley would be able to hold hearings when Mr. McConnell and others are balking is an open question. Mr. McConnell has emphasized that committee chairmen have considerable autonomy under his leadership. Mr. Grassley will no doubt feel pressure on multiple fronts, including from Democrats, with whom he has had good relations on the committee.
在麦康奈尔和其他人阻挠的情况下，格拉斯利是否能够召开听证会尚不得而知。麦康奈尔曾强调，在他的领导下，委员会主席有相当大的自主权。但格拉斯利无疑会承受多方面的压力，其中一些会来自委员会中与他交好的民主党人。
Mr. Grassley, who has long prided himself on embodying the good governance ethos of Iowa, found himself the subject of criticism on the editorial pages of the state’s largest newspaper, The Des Moines Register. “This could have been a ‘profile in courage’ moment for Senator Grassley,” the paper wrote in an editorial published Tuesday before Mr. Grassley’s remarks to Iowa reporters. “This was an opportunity for our senior senator to be less of a politician and more of a statesman. It was a chance for him to be principled rather than partisan.”
长期以来，格拉斯利一直自豪地以艾奥瓦州善政风气的象征自居，但现在他遭到了该州最大报纸《得梅因纪事报》(The Des Moines Register)社论的批评。“这本来是格拉斯利参议员展现勇气的时候，”本周二，在格拉斯利对艾奥瓦州记者讲话之前，该报的一篇社论写道。“这是让我们的资深参议员少点政客习气，多点政治家精神的一个机会。这是他坚持原则，而不是维护党派利益的机会。”
Mr. Grassley, 82, is seeking a seventh term in the Senate in November.
格拉斯利现年82岁，正在寻求今年11月在参议院的第七次个任期。
Democrats quickly seized on Mr. Grassley’s remarks as evidence of what they think will be mounting pressure on Republicans to at least hold hearings on any nominee Mr. Obama brings forward.
民主党人迅速把格拉斯利的言论当作证据，认为这将给共和党增加压力，至少能为奥巴马提名的候选人召开一个听证会。
“When the hard right doesn’t get its way, their immediate reaction is, ‘Shut it down’ — and the Republican leadership marches in lock step,” said Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, in a prepared statement. “They did it in 2013 when they tried to shut down the government, and they’re doing it today with their attempt to shut down the Supreme Court. But, just as in 2013, when there was a huge public outcry and the Republican leadership had to back off, the same will happen now — and they will have to back off this extreme, partisan stance.”
“极右派是这样，一旦不照着他们的意思办，他们的第一反应是‘关掉它’——共和党领导层正整齐划一地前进，”纽约州民主党参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)在一份准备好的声明中说。“2013年，他们试图关闭政府的时候就是这样做的，现在他们试图关闭最高法院的时候又再如法炮制。但是，2013年那次引发舆论哗然，共和党领导层不得不罢休，这次也会是一样——他们将不得不放弃这种极端的党派立场。”
Mr. Grassley has a history of struggling on committees to find the sweet spot between his own political leanings and policy convictions. In the 2009 health care negotiations, when he served on the Finance Committee, Mr. Grassley worked for months to reach an accord with Democrats long after other Republicans had backed out.
在参议院委员会中，格拉斯利为了在自己的政治倾向和政策信念之间找到最佳契合点，有过一些艰辛的经历。2009年进行医保谈判时，他在财务委员会(Finance Committee)任职，在其他共和党人放弃了很久之后，格拉斯利还花了数月时间，欲与民主党人达成一项协议。