WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama has authorized surveillance flights over Syria, a precursor to potential airstrikes there, but a mounting concern for the White House is how to target the Sunni extremists without helping President Bashar Assad.
华盛顿——美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马已经授权对叙利亚进行空中侦察，从而预示着美国可能对该国发动空袭。但白宫的一个日益严重的关切是，如何才能精确打击逊尼派极端分子，同时又不让叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)从中受益。
Defense officials said Monday evening that the Pentagon is sending in manned and unmanned reconnaissance flights over Syria, using a combination of aircraft, including drones and possibly U-2 spy planes. Obama approved the flights over the weekend, a senior administration official said.
国防部官员周一傍晚称，五角大楼将对叙利亚进行载人及无人驾驶的空中侦察，动用的多种机型包括无人机，可能还有U-2侦察机。一名政府高级官员称，奥巴马周末授权了上述行动。
The flights are a significant step toward direct U.S. military action in Syria, an intervention that could alter the battlefield in the nation's three-year civil war.
此次侦察是美国朝着在叙利亚采取直接军事行动的方向上迈出的重要一步。美国的直接干预可能会彻底改变已持续三年的该国内战的走向。
Administration officials said that the United States had no plans to notify the Assad government of the planned flights. Obama, who has repeatedly called for the ouster of Assad, is loath to be seen as aiding the Syrian government, even inadvertently.
政府官员称，美国不打算将计划中的侦察行动告知阿萨德政府。奥巴马曾多次要求阿萨德下台，他不想被外界看做自己在帮助叙利亚政府，即使是无心的帮助也不行。
As a result the Pentagon is drafting military options that would strike the militant Islamic State near the largely erased border between those two nations, as opposed to more deeply inside Syria. The administration is also moving to bolster U.S. support for the moderate Syrian rebels who view Assad as their main foe.
因此，五角大楼正在起草军事方案，将在叙利亚和伊拉克之间基本上模糊不清的边界附近打击激进组织“伊斯兰国”(Islamic State)，而不是深入叙利亚境内。美国政府还将加强对叙利亚反对派中温和势力的支持，后者视阿萨德为主要敌人。
On Monday, Syria warned the U.S. that it needed to coordinate airstrikes against the Islamic State or it would view them as a breach of its sovereignty and an “act of aggression.” But it signaled its readiness to work with the United States in a coordinated campaign against the militants.
叙利亚周一警告美国，自己必须参与协调针对伊斯兰国的空袭，否则就会将此类行动视作对其主权的侵犯，以及一种“侵略行为”。但叙利亚也表示愿意与美国合作，开展针对武装分子的协调行动。
The reconnaissance flights would not be the first time the United States has entered Syrian air space without seeking permission. In July, U.S. special operations forces carried out an unsuccessful rescue attempt for hostages held by the Islamic State, including journalist James Foley, whose death was revealed last week in a video.
侦察行动并不是美国首次在没有寻求许可的情况下进入叙利亚领空。今年7月，美国的特种部队开展了一次不成功的救援尝试，目标是解救被伊斯兰国绑架的人质，包括记者詹姆斯·弗利（James Foley，旧译詹姆斯·福利）。后者被杀害的过程在上周的一则视频中曝光。