WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama is rethinking his plans to withdraw from the political arena after he leaves office next year, hinting to friends and supporters that he wants to add his voice to the shellshocked Democratic activists and elected officials who are vowing to oppose Donald Trump’s presidency.
华盛顿――贝拉克·奥巴马总统正在重新考虑明年离任后退出政治舞台的计划。许多震惊的民主党活动人士和民选官员正在发誓抵制唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的总统任期，奥巴马向朋友和支持者们暗示他也希望加入其中。
White House aides say they expect the president to try to refrain from criticism during the transition because of his belief in the importance of a courteous and dignified transfer of power. But while the president holds out hope that he might influence Trump, he has made it clear that once out of office he will not remain silent if Trump goes too far in undoing his legacy.
白宫幕僚们说，他们估计总统会在过渡时期内克制自己不去批评，因为他相信礼貌且有尊严的权力移交是非常重要的。但是，总统一方面仍然希望自己或许能够影响特朗普，另一方面，他已经明确表示，离任之后，如果特朗普在破坏他的遗产方面走得太远，他将不会保持沉默 。
“I’m going to be constrained in what I do with all of you until I am again a private citizen,” Obama told a meeting last week of Organizing for Action, the group that maintains his political movement.
“我将和大家一起克制自己的行动，直到我再次成为一个普通公民，”奥巴马在上周 “行动组织”(Organizing for Action)的一次会议上说，该组织的职责是维护他的政治运动。
The mobilization against Trump began even before his victory was official. At just after midnight on Election Day, panicked immigration rights activists gathered for a conference call to strategize. A few days later, more than 80 representatives of 57 progressive groups convened in the offices of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights in Washington.
反对特朗普的动员甚至在他正式胜利之前就开始了。在选举日的午夜之后，陷入恐慌的移民权利活动人士聚集在一起开会，呼吁制定战略。几天后，来自57个进步团体的80多名代表前往华盛顿的公民和人权领导人大会(Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights)办公室会面。
The mood was intense, angry and unforgiving, according to people who attended the session, which included representatives from labor, environmental groups, immigration activists, gay rights and civil rights organizations. Jim Messina, who managed Obama’s re-election campaign, cautioned against any attempts to work with Trump.
出席会议的包括劳工、环保团体、移民活动人士、同性恋权利和民权组织的代表，据与会者称，会上的情绪是激烈、愤怒和严厉的。奥巴马的连任竞选经理吉姆·梅西纳(Jim Messina)告诫与会者不要试图与特朗普合作。
“Push back at every level,” Messina urged.
“在每个层面都要反抗，”梅西纳呼吁。
For Obama, a return to the partisan fray was never the intention. His library and foundation will serve as a platform for him to travel around the world, confront systemic issues of race relations, and push for technological change aimed at improving society. But that vision assumed that his presidential legacy would be protected and nurtured by Hillary Clinton in the Oval Office.
奥巴马原本没有回到党派战争中去的打算。他的图书馆与基金会可以充当他在世界各地旅行的平台，探讨种族关系中的系统性问题，并推动旨在改善社会的技术变革。但这个愿景的基础是，他的总统任期遗产将由希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在椭圆办公室内进一步保护与发展。
In his remarks to activists, Obama urged them to stop moping and to ratchet up their opposition to Trump by Thanksgiving. He promised to join their cause soon after, telling them: “You’re going to see me early next year, and we’re going to be in a position where we can start cooking up all kinds of great stuff to do.”
对活动人士们发言时，奥巴马敦促他们停止自怨自艾，在感恩节到来前，反对特朗普的行动要循序渐进。他承诺自己不久之后就将加入他们的事业，他说：“你们明年年初就能看到我，到时候有许多大事等着我们一起去谋划。”