WASHINGTON —  President Obama’s most aggressive and sustained legislative push since the Affordable Care Act faces a crucial first test this week when a divided Senate considers a bill that would grant him accelerated power to complete a massive trade accord with 11 nations across the Pacific Rim.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统在推出《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)之后进行的最积极持久的立法行动，本周将迎来首个重要考验：意见分裂的参议院将对一份提案进行投票，决定是否赋予奥巴马与11个环太平洋国家加速达成一项大规模贸易协定的权力。
But after lobbying members of Congress in a campaign that has included rides on Air Force One, meetings in the West Wing, private vows of political support and public attacks on critics in his own party, Mr. Obama’s top legislative priority remains at risk.
不过，在对多名国会议员进行了游说之后，奥巴马的这项首要的立法工作仍然面临风险。为了推动该提案，他采取的行动包括，乘坐“空军一号”出行、在白宫西翼召开会议，私下里承诺政治支持，以及公开对党内批评者进行抨击。
A vote scheduled for Tuesday on legislation that would grant him trade promotion authority, also known as “fast track,” has become mired in a procedural thicket, with Democrats — many of them loyal to labor unions bent on killing the bill — vowing to oppose it.
定于周二接受表决的提案将赋予奥巴马促进贸易权，即开辟一条“快速通道”。这场投票已经陷入程序上的麻烦，而民主党人——其中许多效忠于一心想要扼杀该提案的工会——发誓要投反对票。
Once Congress grants a president trade promotion authority, lawmakers have the ability to vote up or down on a final trade agreement, but they forfeit the right to amend the deal or filibuster it. The bill before the Senate adds a new twist: If lawmakers decide a final trade accord falls short of their standards, Congress can vote to revoke the president’s authority and then try to amend the deal.
一旦国会授予总统促进贸易权，议员们将可以投票支持或反对最终的贸易协定，但却放弃了修订或用冗长演说拖延战术来加以阻挠的权利。参议院面前的这项提案还有一个新的变数：如果议员们认定最终的贸易协定达不到他们的标准，国会可以投票撤销给总统的授权，然后尝试修订协议。
It will get only more difficult for the president as the debate moves from the Senate to the House. Republicans on whom Mr. Obama is relying to provide the bulk of the votes for the trade measure are finding their colleagues — many aligned with the Tea Party — reluctant to hand the president a victory. Leaders have warned the White House that they may not be able to supply enough votes to compensate for balky members of the president’s own party.
当讨论从参议院转移到众议院时，奥巴马面临的处境只会更加艰难。奥巴马依赖共和党人提供该贸易协定所需的大部分票数，但他们发现，自己的同僚——许多人认同茶党的理念——不愿让总统得偿所愿。共和党领袖警告白宫，他们可能无法提供足够的赞成票来弥补总统从自身政党的不合作议员那里损失的票数。
The accord, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, would reduce tariffs on a vast array of goods and services, reaching 40 percent of the global economy and affecting about 40 percent of America’s exports and imports. Mr. Obama has seized on it as “the most progressive trade agreement in history,” with labor and environmental standards written into its text and the potential to right the wrongs of past trade deals.
这份协议名为“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans-Pacific Partnership)，意图降低大量商品和服务的关税。它将涵盖全球经济总量的40%，并会影响美国40%的进出口额。奥巴马将它宣扬为“有史以来最有魄力的贸易协定”，其文本中将包括劳工和环境方面的标准，并有望纠正以往贸易协定中的错误。
But even senior members of the administration seem astonished at the difficulty the president is having in selling the deal.
不过，就连奥巴马政府中的高级成员，似乎也对总统推动这份协定的难度感到吃惊。
Late last month, in a meeting with the House’s moderate New Democrats coalition, the president offered to personally campaign for any member who provokes a primary challenge by supporting him.
上个月末，在与众议院温和派联盟“新民主党人”(New Democrats)举行的会议中，总统提出，他将亲自帮助任何遭遇初选挑战的民主党议员竞选。
“It’s no secret the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said, ‘We will not do anything for anyone if you support these trade bills,’ ” said Representative Gregory W. Meeks, Democrat of New York, who was at the two-hour meeting in the Cabinet Room. “Folks are concerned if they don’t have the support and enthusiasm they usually have, they’re going to need some help.”
“众所周知，劳联-产联(AFL-CIO)已经放话，‘如果有任何人支持这些贸易提案，我们就不会为你做任何事，’”来自纽约州的民主党众议员格雷戈里·W·米克斯(Gregory W Meeks)说。他在白宫内阁室参加了这次两个小时的会议。“大伙担心，如果没有了平时的支持和热度，他们就会需要一些帮助。”
Mr. Obama has enlisted the architects of his presidential campaigns, both inside and outside the White House, to allay those worries. They are armed with polling data that indicates that most Democratic voters — particularly the fast-growing coalition of women, minorities and lower-income people — favor free trade and would be more likely to vote for a candidate who shared that view.
奥巴马召集了自身竞选总统时的策划人来平息这些担忧，无论他们目前是否在白宫服务。他们准备的民调数据显示，多数民主党选民——尤其是迅速增长的女性、少数族裔和低收入群体联盟——支持自由贸易，而且更有可能把票投给一名持同样观点的候选人。
Mitch Stewart, a veteran field organizer for Mr. Obama’s presidential campaigns, has started a group called the Progressive Coalition for American Jobs to counter the well-funded opposition by labor, environmental and human rights organizations that reject the president’s stance on trade.
奥巴马总统竞选团队的资深组织者米奇·斯图尔特(Mitch Stewart)创办了一个名为“美国就业机会进步联盟”(Progressive Coalition for American Jobs)的团体，以抗衡劳工、环境和人权组织构成的资金充足的反对方。这些组织强烈排斥总统在贸易问题上的立场。
Mr. Stewart will not reveal any of his group’s financial backers. With public opinion data from Pete Brodnitz — partner of Joel Benenson, Mr. Obama’s campaign pollster — Mr. Stewart is trying to help the president persuade Democrats that this trade agreement, unlike previous pacts, would deliver benefits to American workers.
斯图尔特拒绝透露旗下团体的资助方。凭借皮特·布洛德尼茨(Pete Brodnitz)——奥巴马竞选团队的民意调查专家乔尔·班纳森(Joel Benenson)的伙伴——拿出的民调数据，斯图尔特正在努力帮助奥巴马让民主党人相信，这项贸易协定与之前的协议不同，将为美国的劳动者带来益处。
“He’s frankly learned from previous attempts at this,” Mr. Stewart said.
“他真的从之前的尝试中学到了东西，”斯图尔特说。
Trade votes have always posed difficulties for presidents because of their technical and regional complexity and the potential impact on jobs. But this one has proved a particularly heavy lift for Mr. Obama, who campaigned for president railing against trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement.
贸易方面的投票一直是令美国总统头疼的问题，因为它们存在技术和地域上的复杂性，而且可能影响就业。然而，奥巴马这次遇到的困难格外大，因为他在竞选总统时曾经强烈谴责《北美自由贸易协定》(North American Free Trade Agreement)等贸易协议。
But a president’s priorities are not the same as a legislator’s, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has gone from free-trade enthusiast to skeptic since Nafta’s passage in 1993.
不过，来自纽约州的参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)表示，总统首要考虑的议题和议员有所不同。自从《北美自由贸易协定》于1993年通过之后，他对自由贸易的态度逐渐从热情支持变成了怀疑。
With Mr. Obama’s pledge to “pivot” foreign policy toward Asia, his priorities have diverged from his party’s. To the president, the Trans-Pacific Partnership would counter the economic weight of China and set rules on labor, the environment, intellectual property and investor protections for the growing economies of the Pacific Rim. For members of Congress, it is about jobs.
随着奥巴马承诺将外交政策的重心“转向”亚洲，他的首要任务已经偏离了自己的政党。对于总统来说，跨太平洋伙伴关系协定将制衡中国的经济实力，为环太平洋地区不断壮大的经济体设定劳工、环保、知识产权和投资者保护方面的规则。而对于国会议员来说，最重要的是就业。