WASHINGTON — A presidential advisory committee charged with examining the operations of the National Security Agency has concluded that a program to collect data on every phone call made in the United States should continue, though under broad new restraints that would be intended to increase privacy protections, according to officials with knowledge of the report’s contents.
华盛顿——负责审议美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的情报操作的一个总统顾问小组认为，一项收集美国所有境内电话数据的NSA项目应当继续，不过为了改善隐私保护，该项目将会面临更广泛的新限制，了解报告内容的几位官员透露。
The committee’s report, the officials said, also argues in favor of codifying and publicly announcing the steps the United States will take to protect the privacy of foreign citizens whose telephone records, Internet communications or movements are collected by the N.S.A. But it is unclear how far that effort would go, and intelligence officials have argued strenuously that they should be under few restrictions when tapping the communications of non-Americans abroad, who do not have constitutional protections under the Fourth Amendment.
这些官员表示，顾问小组的报告还主张，应当明文规定美国会采取什么措施保护外国公民的隐私权，并将这些措施公之于众。一些外国公民的电话记录、互联网上的通讯或活动也会被NSA收集。但目前尚不清楚这些举措会到什么程度，而且情报官员也在竭力争辩，在监控居住在外国的非美国人时，情报人员不应该受到多少限制，因为他们不受美国宪法第四修正案的保护。
The advisory group is also expected to recommend that senior White House officials, including the president, directly review the list of foreign leaders whose communications are routinely monitored by the N.S.A. President Obama has apologized to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany for the N.S.A.’s monitoring of her calls over the past decade, promising that the actions had been halted and would not resume. But he refused to make the same promise to the leaders of Mexico and Brazil.
根据预期，这个顾问小组还会建议白宫高级官员，包括总统，直接审阅通讯受到NSA例行监听的外国领导人的名单。NSA在过去十年里一直监听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的电话，奥巴马总统曾为此向她道歉，并且承诺监听行动已经中止，而且不再继续。但是他拒绝向墨西哥和巴西领导人作出同样的承诺。
Administration officials say the White House has already taken over supervision of that program. “We’re not leaving it to Jim Clapper anymore,” said one official, referring to the director of national intelligence, who appears to have been the highest official to regularly review the programs.
奥巴马政府官员表示，白宫已经接管了这个项目的监督权。“我们不会再把它留给吉姆·克拉珀(Jim Clapper)管了，”一位官员说。吉姆·克拉珀是国家情报总监，在过去，他似乎是定期审查这些项目的最高官员。
But resistance from the intelligence agencies is likely. In an interview two months ago, Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the soon-to-retire director of the N.S.A. and the commander of the military’s Cyber Command, suggested that a major cutback in American spying on foreign nationals would be naïve. And officials who have examined the N.S.A.’s programs say they have been surprised at how infrequently the agency has been challenged to weigh the intelligence benefits of its foreign collection operations against the damage that could be done if the programs were exposed.
然而这可能会受到情报部门的抵触。两个月前接受采访时，即将卸任的NSA局长兼网战司令部(Cyber Command)司令基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)表示，大幅减少美国对外国公民的间谍活动是很幼稚的。审阅过NSA项目的官员们表示，让他们震惊的一件事是，NSA甚少遭遇挑战，去权衡对外情报收集行动带来的好处和一旦项目败露可能造成的破坏孰轻孰重。
One of the expected recommendations is that the White House conduct a regular review of those collection activities, the way covert action by the C.I.A. is reviewed annually.
预期会提出的建议中，有一条是白宫对情报收集行动进行例行审核。中情局(CIA)的秘密行动就需要进行年度审核。
Another likely recommendation, officials say, is the creation of an organization of legal advocates who, like public defenders, would argue against lawyers for the N.S.A. and other government organizations in front of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the nation’s secret court that oversees the collection of telephone and Internet “metadata” and of wiretapping aimed at terrorism and espionage suspects. Mr. Obama has already hinted that he objects to the absence of any adversarial procedures in front of the court’s judges.
官员们表示，另一个可能提出的建议是成立一个法律倡导人士参与的组织，他们会像公共辩护人一样，在外国情报监视法庭（Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court，简称FISA）上面对NSA及其他政府部门的律师进行抗辩。FISA是一家秘密法庭，监管电话和互联网元数据的收集行为，以及针对恐怖主义和谍报活动嫌疑人开展的监听活动。奥巴马已经暗示，他反对FISA法庭不设置任何抗辩程序。
The advisory report offers the first signs that the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who took thousands of documents from the agency’s archives and has given some of them to news organizations, may lead to changes in the programs he exposed. While Mr. Snowden has been widely condemned in Washington for violating his oaths to protect secrets, and for taking up asylum in Russia instead of facing prosecution, it now appears likely that his disclosures will lead to the result he told interviewers he was seeking.
顾问小组的报告首次显示出，前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露出的信息，会导致他公之于众的那些项目发生变化。斯诺登从NSA的档案库中取得了数千份文档，并将其中一些交给了新闻媒体。在华盛顿，斯诺登受到了广泛的谴责，因为他打破了保守秘密的誓词，而且他还前往俄罗斯接受庇护，而不是面对指控出庭受审。但现在看来，斯诺登披露的文件似乎达到了他在接受采访时所说的，自己寻求的那种效果。
Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council, declined to discuss any specific recommendations of the panel. “Our review is looking across the board at our intelligence gathering to ensure that as we gather intelligence, we are properly accounting for both the security of our citizens and our allies, and the privacy concerns shared by Americans and citizens around the world,” she said. “We need to ensure that our intelligence resources are most effectively supporting our foreign policy and national security objectives — that we are more effectively weighing the risks and rewards of our activities.”
国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人凯特琳·海登(Caitlin Hayden)拒绝讨论该小组的任何具体建议。“我们的审议对情报收集工作进行了整体的研究，目的是确保在收集情报之时，妥善地应对公民和盟友的安全问题，以及美国人和世界各国公民所共有的隐私顾虑，”她说。“我们需要确保情报资源能够最有效地支持外交政策和国家安全目标，以及更有效地权衡情报活动的风险和回报。”
She added that the review was especially focused on “examining whether we have the appropriate posture when it comes to heads of state; how we coordinate with our closest allies and partners; and what further guiding principles or constraints might be appropriate for our efforts.”
她还说，审议工作尤其关注于“检查涉及国家元首时，有没有作出恰当的姿态；我们如何与最紧密的盟友和伙伴进行协调；情报活动中还应该再增加哪些适当的指导原则或约束。”
The five-person advisory group of intelligence and legal experts, several of whom have long connections to Mr. Obama, is expected to deliver its lengthy, unclassified report to the White House by this weekend. Among its members are Richard A. Clarke, who served in the Clinton administration and both Bush administrations and has become an expert on digital conflict; Michael J. Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A.; and Cass R. Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who served in the Obama White House and is married to Samantha Power, the ambassador to the United Nations.
由五人组成的顾问小组中包括情报和法律专家，其中数人与奥巴马有长期的联系。顾问小组定于在本周末向白宫提交篇幅很长的非机密报告。小组成员有理查德·A·克拉克(Richard A. Clarke)，他曾在克林顿及布什父子的政府中任职，之后成为数字战专家；中情局前副局长迈克尔·J·莫雷尔(Michael J. Morell)；以及哈佛大学法学院教授凯斯·R·桑斯坦(Cass R. Sunstein)，他曾在奥巴马政府任职，其妻萨曼莎·鲍尔是美国驻联合国大使。
Two leading legal academics are also members: Peter Swire, an expert in privacy law, and Geoffrey R. Stone, a constitutional law expert and a former dean of the University of Chicago Law School, where Mr. Obama once taught.
顾问小组中还有两位知名法学专家：隐私法专家彼得·史怀亚(Peter Swire)和宪法专家杰弗里·R·斯通(Geoffrey R. Stone)，后者曾任芝加哥大学法学院院长，奥巴马一度在该学院担任教职。
Members of the advisory group have declined to talk about their recommendations until the report is published. But fragmentary accounts of their main conclusions have begun to seep out, as word has spread of a preliminary briefing they gave to Mr. Obama’s top advisers. Two officials said that the advisers had gone further to challenge the intelligence agencies’ ways of doing business than they had expected.
顾问小组的成员拒绝在报告发布之前讨论他们提出的建议。但是因为他们向奥巴马的高级幕僚进行初步汇报的消息已经传开，所以顾问小组主要的结论也通过散碎的叙述传了出来。两名官员说，顾问们对情报机构做事情的方式所提出的挑战，比他们想象的力度更大。
Once it is delivered to the White House, the report is expected to feed into another review being conducted by national security officials across the administration. Mr. Obama has indicated that he plans to announce a range of changes, though officials say that is not likely to happen until early next year. At some point, officials say, the advisory group’s entire report will be made public.
报告提交给白宫之后，预计还将交由政府的国家安全官员进行另一轮审阅。奥巴马曾表示，他计划公布一系列改革措施，但官员们说，这可能要等到明年年初。官员们还表示，顾问小组的完整报告会在某一时刻向公众公开。
So far, the intelligence agencies have largely opposed most proposals for major changes in the programs that they developed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. For example, General Alexander has told Congress that it would not be possible to dismantle the bulk collection of data about American telephone calls until there was an efficient way to search quickly for data held by communications companies like AT&T and Verizon. Many of those companies do not retain the information for more than 18 months, and say they do not want to take on the burden and legal liabilities of holding it longer.
对2001年9月11日袭击事件发生后情报机关启动的项目进行重大改革的提议，到目前为止大都受到了情报机关的反对。例如，亚历山大上将曾向国会表示，NSA不可能停止收集大量美国电话呼叫数据，除非有了一种高效的方式快速搜索AT&T和Verizon等电信企业持有的数据。很多这些企业保存数据的期限不超过18个月，而且它们表示不希望承担保存更长时间的负担和法律责任。
But General Alexander suggested in the interview two months ago that it may be several years before the United States could develop technology that would make it unnecessary for the government to amass that data in its own storage sites.
然而亚历山大上将在两个月前的一次采访中提出，要再等数年，美国研发出相应的技术以后，政府才没有必要在其自身的存储设施存放搜集来的那些数据。