WASHINGTON — President Obama will travel to Cuba in March, the White House announced on Thursday, making a historic visit as part of an effort to end more than a half-century of estrangement and forge normalized relations with a Cold War adversary.
华盛顿——白宫在周四宣布，奥巴马总统将于3月访问古巴，此次历史性访问是终结美国与冷战期间的对手半个多世纪以来的疏远状态，实现关系正常化的努力的一部分。
The administration announced that Mr. Obama and the first lady will make the two-day trip on March 21 — the first by a sitting president in 88 years, when Calvin Coolidge visited — as top Commerce, Treasury and State Department officials were meeting privately with their Cuban counterparts in Washington for talks aimed at expanding business ties between the two nations.
奥巴马政府宣布，奥巴马及第一夫人将于3月21日对古巴进行为期两天的访问——这是继卡尔文·柯立芝(Calvin Coolidge)之后，88年来美国在任总统首次访问古巴，与此同时，商务部、财政部及国务院高层官员将在华盛顿与古巴的对应官员进行私下会面，讨论扩展两国商业关系事宜。
Penny Pritzker, the commerce secretary, opened the discussions on Wednesday, calling on the government of Cuba to open its economy to American business and investment. She said the Cubans must do more to help facilitate commerce after the thaw between the two nations.
美国商务部长佩妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)于周三开启了这场讨论，呼吁古巴政府开放经济，接受美国公司及投资。她表示，两国关系回暖后，古巴人必须采取更多举措，促进商业发展。
Ms. Pritzker said her department had acted aggressively since Mr. Obama’s December 2014 announcement to pave the way for American companies to do business in Cuba, granting 490 authorizations amounting to $4.3 billion last year alone — a roughly 30 percent increase over the previous year.
普利茨克表示，自奥巴马总统在2014年12月宣布为美国公司进入古巴创造条件后，商务部积极行动，去年一年发布了490项授权——总额达到43亿美元，同比增长大约30%。
“But we need help from the Cuban side,” Ms. Pritzker said. “The U.S. companies that are attempting to do business in your country continue to face challenges.”
“但我们需要古巴方面的帮助，”普利茨克说。“那些尝试在古巴开展业务的美国公司仍然面临挑战。”
She added: “Without specific changes on your side that allow the private sector to engage, our changes will not unlock the opportunities for the Cuban people that both of us want to see.”
她还表示，“古巴方面不做出具体改变，不允许私营领域参与，我们的改变无法为古巴人民开创双方都希望看到的机会。”
The talks, which began in a wood-paneled library at the Commerce Department within view of the White House, represent the latest effort by the Obama administration to push forward with the policy shift the president set in motion just over a year ago. But the process is vastly complicated by the American statutory trade and commercial embargo that has been in place for decades and that only Congress can lift.
谈话在商务部的一间有木饰板墙面的图书室举行，窗外可以看到白宫。奥巴马在一年前开始推动政策转变，此次谈话是这种转变的最新一次努力。但美国数十年来的法定贸易及商业禁运措施，令这一进程变得极其复杂，只有国会可以解除相关禁令。
The president plans to visit Argentina after he leaves Cuba.
奥巴马总统计划在结束对古巴的访问后前往阿根廷。