The Obama administration confirmed on Tuesday that it was reviewing its policy on securing the release of United States citizens taken hostage abroad, but that the ban on paying ransom had not changed.
奥巴马政府于周二证实，美国正在评估确保在境外遭到绑架的美国公民获释的政策，但不支付赎金的政策没有改变。
Word of the review, disclosed by an under secretary of defense in a letter to a Republican lawmaker, came as the administration was grappling with a series of beheadings of American captives by the Islamic State militant group, which posted a video Sunday announcing the third such killing.
国防部一名副部长在写给一名共和党议员的信中，透露了开展评估一事。当前奥巴马政府正在应对一系列美国人质被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装组织斩首的事件，该组织在周日上传了一段视频，宣布斩首了第三名美国人质。
Some family members of hostages have criticized what they see as an unacceptable refusal by the administration to grant concessions to hostage-takers, including ransom payments.
人质的一些家属批评政府拒绝对劫匪做出让步的做法，包括拒绝支付赎金，称这让人无法接受。
Unlike European governments, which have paid many millions of dollars in ransom to win the release of citizens held by the Islamic State or other militant groups, the United States has said it will never pay money to rescue its citizens. It has also privately pressed other governments not to pay.
欧洲国家的政府已经支付了数百万美元的赎金，解救被伊斯兰国或其他武装组织挟持的欧洲公民。与欧洲国家的政府不同，美国曾表示，永远都不会通过支付赎金来解救美国人质。美国还私下向其他国家的政府施压，要求它们不要支付赎金。
Administration officials said on Tuesday that the policy review, first reported on Monday by The Daily Beast, was not a re-evaluation of the ransom prohibition.
奥巴马政府官员在周二表示，此次政策评估并不会重新审议不支付赎金的政策。“每日野兽”(The Daily Beast)网站于周一首先报道了此次评估的消息。
“The United States government, as a matter of longstanding policy, does not grant concessions to hostage takers, for a very important reason — granting such concessions would put all American citizens overseas at greater risk for kidnapping,” Alistair Baskey, a spokesman for the National Security Council, wrote in an emailed statement. “Furthermore, paying ransoms would only sustain the very same terrorist organizations that we are working to destroy.”
“作为一项长期政策，美国政府不会向绑匪做出让步，其中有一个重要的原因——做出让步会加大境外美国公民遭到绑架的危险，”国家安全委员会(National Security Council)发言人阿利斯泰尔·巴斯基(Alistair Baskey)在邮件声明中写道。“此外，支付赎金只会向我们正在努力摧毁的恐怖组织提供支持。”
Mr. Baskey said the administration’s goal “has always been to use every appropriate resource within the bounds of the law to assist families to bring their loved ones home.”
巴斯基表示，美国政府的一贯目标是“在法律允许的范围内，利用所有适当的资源，协助被绑人员的家属将他们的亲人带回家”。
Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, told reporters at a daily briefing that “the president continues to believe, as previous presidents have concluded, that it’s not the best interests of American citizens to pay ransom to any organization, let alone a terrorist organization, that’s holding an American hostage.”
白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在每日简报会上告诉记者，“正如历任美国总统断定的那样，奥巴马总统仍然认为，向任何扣押美国人质的组织支付赎金，都不符合美国公民的最大利益，更不用说恐怖组织了。”
Mr. Earnest did not specify precisely when the review had been undertaken or when it would conclude.
欧内斯特没有透露此次评估确切的起止时间。
“This is something that the president ordered back in — over the summer,” he said. Because of “the extraordinary nature of some of the hostage-takings that we’d seen this year,” he continued, “the president felt it was warranted to direct the relevant departments and agencies who have traditionally been involved in assisting families as they try to recover the safe return of their family members” to review their policies.
他说，“此次评估是奥巴马总统在今年夏天下令进行的。”由于“我们今年所见到的一些人质劫持事件，性质非同一般，”他接着说，“总统觉得有必要指示那些一直协助人质家属，将他们的家人安全送回家的部门和机构”，评估各自的政策。
Christine Wormuth, an under secretary of defense, disclosed the review in a letter to Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican who sits on the House Armed Services Committee. A copy of the letter posted on The Daily Beast website was stamped Nov. 11.
国防部副部长克里斯蒂娜·沃姆斯(Christine Wormuth)在写给众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)成员、加州共和党众议员邓肯·亨特(Duncan Hunter)的信中透露了评估的相关信息。“每日野兽”网站发表了此信的副本，上面标注的日期是11月11日。
The letter was a response to an Aug. 20 letter from Mr. Hunter, seeking clarity on the administration’s position regarding American citizens held abroad.
这封信是为了回复亨特8月20日的来信。亨特在信中要求政府澄清对于被扣留在海外的美国公民的立场。
“As a result of the increased frequency of hostage-taking of Americans overseas, and the recognition of the dynamic threat posed by specific terrorist groups,” Ms. Wormuth’s letter said, “the president recently directed a comprehensive review of the U.S. government policy on overseas terrorist-related hostage cases, with specific emphasis on examining family engagement, intelligence collection, and diplomatic engagement policies.”
“鉴于美国公民在海外被劫持为人质的情况日益普遍，此外也认识到某些恐怖组织构成了切实的威胁，”沃姆斯在信中说，“总统最近下令对美国政府处理与恐怖主义相关的海外人质劫持事件的政策，开展全面的评估，而且特别强调要审视涉及家属沟通、情报收集和外交接触的政策。”
Word of the review came after the Islamic State publicized the beheading of Peter Kassig, 26, an aid worker and former soldier, the third American captive the group has killed.
关于评估的消息是在伊斯兰国宣布斩首26岁的彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)后传出的。卡西格是一名援助工作者，此前曾在美军服役，他也是被伊斯兰国杀害的第三名美国人质。
The Islamic State is believed to hold one more American. It has also posted videos showing the beheading of two Britons.
据信，被伊斯兰国劫持的美国人不止一名。该组织还发布了斩首两名英国人的视频。
The Islamic State, which has seized parts of Syria and Iraq, first killed an American captive, James Foley, 40, in a beheading that was publicized in an Internet video posted on Aug. 19. A video of the second American beheaded, Steven J. Sotloff, 31, was posted on Sept. 2.
伊斯兰国占领了叙利亚和伊拉克的部分地区，他们首先杀害了40岁的美国人质詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)；8月19日，斩首弗利的视频被发布在了网上。9月2日，31岁的史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)被斩首的视频被公布在网上，他是第二名被斩首的美国人。
The group has called the killings part of its retaliation for an American-led bombing campaign aimed at Islamic State targets. But the group demanded ransom for the captives before the bombing campaign, which President Obama first authorized in early August.
伊斯兰国称，之所以杀害这些人，在一定程度上是为了报复美国领导的针对伊斯兰国目标的轰炸行动。但在轰炸行动开始前，该组织就已索要过赎金。奥巴马最初授权实施轰炸是在8月初。