ORLANDO, Fla. — A gunman who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State killed 50 people and wounded 53 in a crowded gay nightclub here early Sunday. The gunman, identified as Omar Mateen, had been investigated twice by the FBI for possible connections to terrorism, the bureau said, but no ties could be confirmed.
佛罗里达州奥兰多——周日凌晨，一名宣誓效忠伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的持枪歹徒在一家人头攒动的同性恋夜总会杀害50人，伤53人。凶手名为奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)，此前已被联邦调查局(FBI)调查过他两次，怀疑他和恐怖主义有联系，但未找到过确凿证据。
Mateen, 29, a U.S. citizen whose parents were from Afghanistan, called 911 and talked about the Islamic State shortly before the massacre at the Pulse nightclub, the worst mass shooting in U.S. history, Ronald Hopper, an assistant agent in charge of the FBI’s Tampa Division, said at a news conference. Other federal officials said more explicitly that Mateen declared allegiance to the group.
马廷是美国公民，现年29岁，父母来自阿富汗。FBI负责坦帕分局的助理探员罗纳德·霍珀(Ronald Hopper)在新闻发布会上表示，在袭击这家名为“Pulse”的夜店、造成美国历史上最惨烈的大规模枪击案之前不久，马廷曾拨打过911报警电话，在通话中谈到了伊斯兰国。其他一些联邦官员则更明确地说，马廷宣布效忠于伊斯兰国。
“The FBI first became aware of him in 2013 when he made inflammatory comments to co-workers alleging possible terrorist ties,” but could not find any incriminating evidence, Hopper said.
“FBI开始注意到他是在2013年。他向同事们发表了一些煽动性言论，显示或许和恐怖分子有联系，”但FBI找不到任何罪证，霍珀说。
In 2014, the bureau investigated Mateen again, for possible ties to Moner Mohammad Abusalha, an American who grew up in Florida but went to Syria to fight for an extremist group and detonated a suicide bomb; Hopper said the bureau concluded that the contact between the two men had been minimal, and that Mateen “did not constitute a substantive threat at that time.”
到了2014年，FBI再次对马廷进行调查，怀疑他可能和穆莱·默罕穆德·阿布萨哈(Moner Mohammad Abusalha)有关系。阿布萨哈是在佛罗里达长大的美国公民，前往叙利亚为一个极端团体效力，引爆了一枚自杀式炸弹。霍珀称，FBI得出的结论是这两人之间接触甚少，马廷“当时并不构成实质性的威胁”。
The suspicions did not prevent Mateen, who lived in Fort Pierce, Florida, from working as a security guard, or from buying guns. The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives said Mateen legally bought a long gun and a pistol in the last week or two, though it was not clear whether those were the weapons used in the assault.
马廷住在佛罗里达州皮尔斯堡。FBI对他的怀疑并未妨碍他从事保安工作，或是购买枪支。美国烟酒枪支及爆炸物管理局(Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives)披露，马廷在前一两周合法购买了一支长枪和一支手枪，不过目前尚不清楚他在袭击中使用的是不是这些武器。
Hours after the attack, the Islamic State claimed responsibility in a statement released over an encrypted phone app used by the group. It stated that the attack “was carried out by an Islamic State fighter,” according to a transcript provided by the SITE Intelligence Group, which tracks jihadi propaganda.
袭击发生数小时后，伊斯兰国通过他们使用的加密手机应用发表声明，宣称对此事负责。追踪圣战组织宣传的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)提供了一份文稿，其中显示，该组织称这次袭击“由伊斯兰国斗士发动”。
But officials cautioned that even if Mateen, who court records show was born in New York and had been married and divorced, had been inspired by the group, there was no indication that it had trained or instructed him, or had any direct connection with him.
但官员警告，即使马廷是受到了伊斯兰国的煽动，并没有迹象表明他曾经受过该组织的训练或教导，也没有证据显示他和该组织有任何直接联系。法庭记录显示马廷出生在纽约，曾成婚并已离婚。
“The FBI is appropriately investigating this as an act of terror,” President Barack Obama said from the White House.
“FBI正把此事作为恐怖行径来调查。这是恰当的做法，”奥巴马总统在白宫表示。