WASHINGTON — President Obama intensified his pressure on House Republicans on Tuesday, calling on them to “lift these threats from our families and our businesses” as the federal government remained shuttered into a second week and the possibility that the United States would default on its debts grew closer.
华盛顿——周二，在联邦政府停摆进入第二周，美国债务违约的可能性越来越大之际，奥巴马总统加大了向众议院共和党人施压的力度，呼吁他们“解除我们的家庭和企业面临的这些威胁”。
Mr. Obama, holding firm to the position he first took more than a year ago, said in a lengthy news conference that he would not negotiate over the essential act of raising the nation’s debt limit or offer concessions to the Republican-led House to finance and reopen the government.
奥巴马仍牢牢坚持自己一年多以前最初采取的立场，他在一个漫长的新闻发布会上表示，不会就提高美国债务上限这一必要之举进行谈判，也不会为了让政府获得经费、重新开始运行，而对共和党领导的众议院做出让步。
But he raised the possibility of reopening the government and raising the debt limit over the short term to allow negotiations to take place, a development that Republicans saw as positive. “If they can’t do it for a long time, do it for the period of time in which these negotiations are taking place,” Mr. Obama said.
但他提出，可以就重开政府以及提高债务上限采取短期方案，从而为双方留出谈判的时间，共和党认为这是一种积极的进展。奥巴马说：“如果他们不肯长期这样做，至少可以在谈判期间这样做。”
Congress has a constitutional responsibility to both finance the government and keep it solvent, the president said, and once the House acts, he will talk.
奥巴马表示，按照宪法的规定，国会有责任给政府提供经费，同时保障其偿付债务的能力，只要众议院就此采取行动，他就愿意与共和党对话。
Earlier in the day, the president spoke briefly by phone with Speaker John A. Boehner. “I am happy to talk with him and other Republicans about anything — not just issues I think are important but also issues that they think are important,” Mr. Obama said. “But I also told him that having such a conversation, talks, negotiations shouldn’t require hanging the threats of a government shutdown or economic chaos over the heads of the American people.”
当天早些时候，奥巴马在电话里与众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)进行了短暂的交谈。“我乐于同他，以及其他共和党人讨论任何事情——不光是我认为重要的问题，也包括在他们看来很重要的问题，”奥巴马说，“但我也对他说，进行这种会谈、对话或谈判时，不该让美国民众的头上笼罩着政府停摆或者经济混乱的威胁。”
“Think about it this way,” the president added. “The American people do not get to demand a ransom for doing their jobs.”
“可以这样想一下，”奥巴马补充道，“美国民众可不会对人施行敲诈勒索，然后才肯做自己份内的工作。”
Eight days since House Republicans refused to finance the government because Mr. Obama would not defund or delay the new health care law, and nine days before the Treasury Department says it will reach the legal limit to borrow money for existing bills and obligations, the two parties showed no movement toward an accord. Both sides dug in deeper, even as polls showed that Americans are fed up with Republicans, Democrats and the president — but more so with Republicans. The Senate held a rare all-hands-on-deck debate, but aired familiar partisan arguments.
距离众议院共和党人因奥巴马不愿搁置或押后实施新的医改法案而拒绝为政府提供经费过去了八天，再过九天，财政部(Treasury Department)就将宣布达到借款支付现有账单、偿付债务的举债上限。此时，两党仍未表现出任何达成一致的动向。双方都在固执地较劲，尽管民意调查显示，美国人对于共和党、民主党和总统都已感到厌倦——尤其是受够了共和党。参议院举行了一场罕见的紧急全院辩论，但其内容却是再熟悉不过的党派之争。
The phone conversation between Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner was their first direct contact since the president had Congressional leaders to the Oval Office last Thursday night, but it was similarly inconclusive, each side said. While Mr. Obama, at his news conference, said he reinforced that he could not negotiate until the government reopened and the debt limit was lifted, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner would not characterize the speaker’s response.
上周四晚间奥巴马曾在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)会见国会领袖。奥巴马和博纳的电话交谈，是两人在那以后首次直接取得联系。但双方都表示，这次电话交谈同样没什么成果。而奥巴马在自己的新闻发布会上称，他重申了除非政府部门重新开门办公、债务上限得到提高，否则就不会与共和党谈判。博纳的发言人不愿描述博纳的回应。
But Mr. Boehner, at a news conference after the president’s, once again insisted that Mr. Obama must negotiate.
但博纳在随后的一个新闻发布会上再次表示，奥巴马必须坐下来谈判。
“When it comes to the debt limit, I agree with the president: we should pay our bills,” he said. “I didn’t come here to shut down the government. I certainly didn’t come here to default on our debt.”
“谈到债务上限，我跟总统意见一致：我们必须支付账单，”他说，“我的目的不是让政府关门，我的目的当然也不是让政府债务违约。”
Mr. Boehner added, “What the president said today was, if there is unconditional surrender by Republicans, he’ll sit down and talk to us. That’s not the way our government works.”
博纳又补充道，“总统今天表达的意思是，假如共和党人无条件投降，那他就会坐下来和我们对话。但我们的政府不是这样运转的。”
Earlier, House Republicans left a closed-door caucus with their terms for any negotiations unclear. In recent days, their stated goal has broadened from defunding or delaying the health care law, whose insurance exchanges opened on Oct. 1, to unspecified deficit reductions. One lawmaker after another offered a simple message, which Republicans are counting on to reverse the tide of public condemnation: Republicans want to negotiate, but the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and Mr. Obama will not.
此前，众议院共和党人闭门召开了一次高层会议，不过他们开展任何谈判的条件依然含糊不清。近些天来，他们阐述的目标已经从取消对医改法案的资金支持或延后医改法案的实施（该法案规定的保险交易系统已于10月1日启动），扩展到了削减赤字，削减的目标并未明确指出。一个个议员接二连三地传递出一个简单的信息：共和党想谈判，但参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)和奥巴马却不想谈判。共和党希望借此扭转其饱受公众谴责的局面。
“I think that Harry Reid and President Obama will recognize that their position of no negotiating is not resonating with the people anymore,” said Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, a member of the Tea Party faction that forced Mr. Boehner’s hard-line stand on government financing and the debt-limit increase.
明尼苏达州众议员米歇尔·巴赫曼(Michele Bachmann)说：“我想哈里·里德和奥巴马将会认识到，他们拒不谈判的立场无法再赢得民众的认同了。”巴赫曼是茶党(Tea Party)成员，这个派系迫使博纳在为政府提供资金和提高债务上限方面采取了强硬立场。
Especially with new polls showing Republicans in the worst position, Democrats in Congress and the White House seemed undaunted by that line of attack, calling it disingenuous. As Mr. Obama said in his news conference, since last spring Republicans have repeatedly refused to form a House-Senate conference committee to resolve differences between the separate annual budgets passed by the House and the Senate.
新的民意调查显示，共和党正处在最被动的境地，因此国会民主党人和白宫似乎对这种抨击毫不畏惧，直斥其虚伪之至。正如奥巴马在新闻发布会上所言，从去年春天开始，共和党多次拒绝组成参众两院协调委员会，弥合两院各自通过的年度预算版本之间的差异。
Mr. Reid, for his part, assembled the full Senate for an open debate. It resulted in little more than senators’ reaffirming their party lines.
至于里德，则召集全体参议员开展公开辩论。结果，参议员们只是对自己党派的方针进行了重申。
“Open the government, let us pay our bills and we’ll negotiate on anything you want to negotiate,” Mr. Reid told the gathered Republicans.
里德对参会的共和党人说：“先让政府开始运转、支付账单，接下来，你们想协商什么，我们就和你们协商什么。”
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, blamed both parties. “Shouldn’t we be embarrassed about this? Shouldn’t we be ashamed?” he said, his voice rising in anger as he described how death benefits were being denied to families of fallen troops because much of the government is closed. “And the list goes on and on of people, of innocent Americans who have fallen victim to the reality that we can’t sit down and talk like grown-ups.”
亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)对两党都提出了批评。他说：“我们对此不该感到惭愧吗，不该感到耻辱吗？”谈到由于大部分政府部门已关闭，阵亡将士的家人拿不到抚恤金的时候，他因为愤怒而提高了音量。“我们做不到像成年人一样坐下来谈，这样一个事实让许多人，很多无辜的美国民众，成了牺牲品。这样的例子不胜枚举。”
Separately, Senate Democrats introduced a measure to raise the debt limit without any conditions, and initial votes could come by Friday. Yet it is far from clear whether Democrats will have support from six Republicans to break the likely Republican filibuster.
参议院民主党人单方面提出了一个不附带任何条件的提高债务上限的议案，针对该议案的初步投票可能会在周五之前举行。目前完全不清楚民主党能否获取六名共和党参议员的支持，从而不让有可能采取拖延战术的共和党人得逞。
Moderate Republicans whom Democrats typically turn to in close votes — Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Rob Portman of Ohio — remain uncommitted and will face intense pressure to oppose a debt limit bill that does not include any Republican policy priorities. Mr. McCain, another frequent bridge between the two parties, said Tuesday that he would vote no.
进行势均力敌的投票表决时，民主党人一般会寻求温和派共和党人的支持，比如缅因州参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)，田纳西州参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)，以及俄亥俄州参议员罗布·波特曼(Rob Portman)。这些人目前尚未表态，而且会有巨大的压力迫使他们反对这项完全没有体现共和党政策取向的债务上限议案。而常常在两党间扮演桥梁作用的另一名共和党人麦凯恩则在周二表示，他会投反对票。