TOKYO — President Obama encountered setbacks to two of his most cherished foreign-policy projects on Thursday, as he failed to advance a trade deal that undergirds his strategic pivot to Asia and the Middle East peace process suffered a potentially irreparable breakdown.
东京——周四，奥巴马总统在他最重视的两个外交政策计划上遭到挫败：他未能推动为其转向亚洲战略提供支持的贸易协议，中东的和平进程也经历了一个可能无法挽回的重创。
Mr. Obama had hoped to use his visit here to announce an agreement under which Japan would open its markets in rice, beef, poultry and pork, a critical step toward the trade pact. But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was not able to overcome entrenched resistance from Japan’s farmers in time for the president’s visit.
奥巴马原本打算利用此次东京访问来宣布一项协议；根据该协议，日本将开放其大米、牛肉、家禽和猪肉市场，这是达成贸易协定的关键一步。但是，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)未能在奥巴马访日之前及时化解日本农民的强烈抵制。
In Jerusalem, Israel’s announcement that it was suspending stalemated peace negotiations with the Palestinians, after a rapprochement between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the militant group Hamas, posed yet another obstacle to restarting a troubled peace process in which Secretary of State John Kerry has been greatly invested.
在耶路撒冷，以色列宣布将停止与巴勒斯坦陷入僵局的和平谈判。此前，巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)与武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)达成了和解。这种情况为重启这个困难重重的和平进程设立了又一个障碍，尽管美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)为此倾注了大量心血。
The setbacks, though worlds apart in geography and history, speak to the common challenge Mr. Obama has had in translating his ideas and ambitions into enduring policies. He has watched outside forces unravel his best-laid plans, from resetting relations with Russia to managing the epochal political change in the Arab world. On Thursday, as Russia staged military exercises on the border with Ukraine, Mr. Kerry denounced broken promises from the Kremlin but took no specific action.
这两个挫折出现的地方在地理和历史方面存在巨大差异，但却说明了奥巴马在把自己的理念和抱负化为持续性政策的过程中所遭遇的共同挑战。从重建与俄罗斯的关系到管控阿拉伯世界的划时代政治变迁，他已多次目睹外部力量摧毁他精心安排的计划。周四，俄罗斯在其与乌克兰的边境举行了军事演习，克里谴责克里姆林宫(Kremlin)违背承诺，但并未采取具体行动。
Mr. Obama has not given up. He was scheduled to leave Tokyo for South Korea on Friday, continuing his weeklong quest to breathe life into his shift to Asia. Mr. Kerry, the tireless campaigner for Middle East peace, was still working the phones, trying to maneuver the Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating room.
奥巴马仍未放弃。按计划，他将于周五离开东京前往韩国，继续他为期一周的访问，尝试为他的转向亚洲战略注入活力。克里一直在不知疲倦地为中东和平奔走呼吁，目前仍在进行电话游说，试图让以色列和巴勒斯坦重新回到谈判桌前。
One of the president’s most grandiose foreign-policy projects, a nuclear agreement with Iran, remains very much on the table, with diplomats from Iran and the West beginning to draft language that would limit Iran’s nuclear program and inhibit its ability to produce a weapon.
与伊朗的核协议是奥巴马总统最宏大的外交政策计划之一，目前仍基本停留在桌面上，伊朗和西方外交官已开始起草将限制伊朗核计划及其武器研发能力的文件。
In one sense, the latest grim news from the Middle East offers a rationale for Mr. Obama to keep his gaze fixed on the fast-growing economies of Asia. While the troubles with the peace negotiations have surprised almost no one, the trade talks with Japan still hold some hope of yielding a landmark deal, since it is in the interests of both Mr. Abe and Mr. Obama — a bet on the future rather than an effort to clear the enmities of the past.
从某种意义上说，中东最近糟糕的消息为奥巴马提供了一个把注意力放在增长迅速的亚洲经济体上的理由。虽然几乎没人对巴以和谈遭遇的困难感到震惊，但人们仍希望美日贸易谈判能促成一份意义重大的协议，因为这份协议对安倍晋三和奥巴马都有利——它着眼于未来，而不是为了消除过去的敌意。
First, though, Mr. Obama has to overcome the stubborn hurdles to any trade agreement. Back home, he has been unable to win support from Congress for the deal.
但是，奥巴马首先必须克服任何贸易协议都会面临的顽固抵抗。即便是在国内，他也未能赢得国会对该协议的支持。
“Prime Minister Abe has got to deal with his politics; I’ve got to deal with mine,” he said on Thursday. “It means that we sometimes have to push our constituencies beyond their current comfort levels.”
“安倍晋三首相有自己的政治问题需要处理，我也需要解决我的政治问题，”他周四表示。“这一来，我们有时不得不做一些超出我们选民现有接受度的事情。”
Mr. Obama also declared that the United States was obligated by a security treaty to protect Japan in its confrontation with China over a clump of islands in the East China Sea. But he stopped short of siding with Japan in the dispute regarding who has sovereignty over the islands, and carefully calibrated his statement to avoid antagonizing China.
奥巴马还宣布，根据一项安全协议，倘若日本因东海的一系列岛屿与中国发生冲突，美国将有义务为日本提供保护。但是，在关于这些岛屿究竟属于哪国的争议中，奥巴马并未表示支持日本，还对他在声明中的措辞进行了谨慎处理，以免惹怒中国。
The net result, seen in a news conference in which the leaders referred to each other a bit stiffly as Barack and Shinzo, was an alliance clearly on firmer footing than it was during Mr. Obama’s first term, but still vulnerable to political frailties on each side.
在新闻发布会上，两国领导人分别称对方为贝拉克和晋三，口气略显生硬。从新闻发布会的情况来看，此次访问的成果是两国联盟关系的基础显然比奥巴马第一任期时有所增强，但仍然易于受到各自政治问题的影响。
Similar frailties were on display in Jerusalem, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel acted swiftly to suspend talks after his Palestinian counterpart, President Mahmoud Abbas, signed a deal seeking to reconcile his Fatah faction, which dominates the Palestine Liberation Organization and leads the West Bank government, with Hamas, the Islamist group that controls the Gaza Strip.
耶路撒冷也出现了类似的问题。在巴勒斯坦总统马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)签署一项旨在让他领导的法塔赫(Fatah)派系和控制着加沙地带的伊斯兰组织哈马斯(Hamas)达成和解的协议后，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)迅速行动，中止了巴以和谈。法塔赫是巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)的主导力量，领导着约旦河西岸的政府。
Mr. Abbas “had a choice: peace with Israel or pact with the terrorist Hamas,” Mr. Netanyahu said in an interview on NBC News. “So that’s the blow for peace, and I hope he changes his mind.”
内塔尼亚胡在接受NBC新闻频道(NBC News)的采访时说，阿巴斯“面临着一个选择：是要与以色列之间的和平，还是要与哈马斯恐怖分子的条约。因此，这就是对和平进程的打击，我希望他改变主意。”
Events in Asia tend to move at a slower pace. But with trade a key pillar of Mr. Obama’s strategy in Asia and each side looking for something from the other, the negotiations assumed a Middle East-like intensity.
亚洲的事务往往会以较慢的速度推进。然而，鉴于贸易是奥巴马亚洲战略的的关键支柱，各方又都寻求从对方那里获益，相关谈判表现出了类似于中东局势的紧张。
In round-the-clock negotiations this week, American and Japanese officials said, the United States pressed Japan to make major concessions, including cutting protective tariffs close to zero on agricultural products like cheese and pork.
在本周不分昼夜的谈判过程中，美国和日本官员称，美国极力劝说日本做出重要让步，包括将奶酪和猪肉等农产品的保护性关税降低到接近于零的水平。
“There are a lot of people in Japan who question whether Japan should make big concessions just because Obama is here,” said Nobuhiro Suzuki, a professor of agriculture at the University of Tokyo. “Abe has to heed them, too, to avoid appearing like an American patsy.”
“日本有很多人质疑，日本是否应该仅仅因为奥巴马到访就做出巨大让步，”东京大学(University of Tokyo)农业教授铃木信广（Nobuhiro Suzuki，音译）说，“安倍晋三必须留意他们的意见，免得人们觉得他容易上美国的当。”
Other analysts faulted Mr. Obama, saying his decision not to fight for the legislative authority at home to pass major trade deals had robbed him of leverage with the Japanese, who are reluctant to make concessions for a deal that may not survive Congress.
其他一些分析人士批评奥巴马，称他应该与国内的立法机构斗争，争取让重要的贸易协议获得通过，不该决定放弃，由此失去了施压日本的筹码。日本不愿为了一项可能无法获得国会通过的协议做出让步。
“Their strategy was to get the Japanese to do the deal, then go to Congress and say, ‘Look what a great deal we got, now give us the authority,’ ” said Michael J. Green, an Asia adviser to President George W. Bush. “He made a decision to go into this with one hand tied behind his back.”
“他们的战略是让日本人同意协议，然后再去国会说，‘看看我们有一个多棒的协议，现在给我们授权吧，’”乔治·W·布什(President George W. Bush)政府的亚洲事务顾问迈克尔·J·格林(Michael J. Green)说，“他决定以轻松的方式应对这件事情。”
American officials held out hope for a last-minute breakthrough, with talks continuing on Thursday night. So far, the Japanese have gotten a better deal from Mr. Obama on security issues than he has from the Japanese on trade.
谈判持续到了周四夜里，美国官员寄希望于在最后一刻取得突破。迄今为止，日本从奥巴马那里得到的安全保障条件，好过奥巴马从日本得到的贸易条件。