BEIRUT — President Obama said the American-led airstrikes in Syria were intended to punish the terror organizations that threatened the United States — but would do nothing to aid President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who is at war with the same groups.
贝鲁特——奥巴马总统宣称，美国领导的对叙利亚境内目标的空袭，旨在惩罚对美国构成威胁的恐怖组织——但是不会为正在与同样的团体开战的叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)提供任何帮助。
But on the third day of strikes, it was increasingly uncertain whether the United States could maintain that delicate balance.
然而，到了空袭的第三天，对于美国能否维持这个微妙的平衡，情况已经变得越来越不明朗。
A Syrian diplomat crowed to a pro-government newspaper that “the U.S. military leadership is now fighting in the same trenches with the Syrian generals, in a war on terrorism inside Syria.” And in New York, the new Iraqi prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, said in an interview that he had delivered a private message to Mr. Assad on behalf of Washington, reassuring him that the Syrian government was not the target of American-led airstrikes.
一名叙利亚外交官沾沾自喜地对一家亲政府报纸说：“美国军方领导层与叙利亚将领正在同一战壕里作战，在叙利亚境内开展一场反恐战争。”而在纽约，伊拉克新总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)在接受采访时也表示，他曾代表华盛顿向阿萨德私下传达了一条讯息，让他放心，美国领导的空袭不会以叙利亚政府为目标。
The confident statements by Syrian leaders and their allies showed how difficult it already is for Mr. Obama to go after terrorists operating out of Syria without getting dragged more deeply into that nation’s three-and-a-half-year-old civil war. Indeed, the American strikes have provided some political cover for Mr. Assad, as pro-government Syrians have become increasingly, even publicly, angry at his inability to defeat the militants.
奥巴马希望打击在叙利亚境外活动的恐怖分子，同时避免进一步卷入该国已经持续三年半的内战。然而，来自叙利亚领导人及其盟友的这些自信的说法，显示了要做到这一点有多么困难。事实上，美国的空袭已经为阿萨德提供了一些政治掩护。本来，由于他无力打败那些武装分子，亲政府的叙利亚人已经变得越来越愤怒，有些甚至会公开地表达了这种愤怒。
On the other side, Mr. Obama’s Persian Gulf allies, whom he has pointed to as crucial to the credibility of the air campaign, have expressed displeasure with the United States’ reluctance to go after Mr. Assad directly. For years, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have pressed Washington to join the fight to oust the Syrian president.
另一方面，奥巴马指出，对于这次空中战役的成败来说，美国在波斯湾的一些盟友非常重要；而这些盟友对于美国不愿直接打击阿萨德，已经纷纷表示了不满。数年来，卡塔尔、沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋一直在敦促华盛顿参与推翻阿萨德的斗争。
And for years, the United States has demurred.
然而数年来，美国对此一直持不同意见。
“We need to create an army to fight the terrorists, but we also have to fight the regime,” Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, emir of Qatar, said Thursday in an interview with New York Times editors. “We have to do both.”
“我们需要组建一支军队来对抗恐怖分子，但我们也必须和阿萨德政权做斗争，”本周四，在接受《纽约时报》编辑采访时，卡塔尔埃米尔塔米姆·本·哈迈德·阿勒萨尼(Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani)说。“我们必须两者并重。”
Mr. Obama told the United Nations General Assembly Wednesday that the United States would work with its allies to roll back the Islamic State through military action and support for moderate rebels. But he added, “The only lasting solution to Syria’s civil war is political: an inclusive political transition that responds to the legitimate aspirations of all Syrian citizens, regardless of ethnicity, regardless of creed.”
本周三，奥巴马在联合国大会上表示，美国将与盟国合作，通过采取军事行动并为温和派反政府武装提供援助的方式，来削弱伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。但他同时指出，“对于叙利亚内战而言，唯一持久的解决方案是政治上的：建立一个包容的过渡政府，对于全体叙利亚公民的合法愿望，无论他们的民族和信仰为何，这个政府都可以有所担当。”
Yet as the Syrian conflict transformed from peaceful, popular calls for change to a bloody unraveling of the nation, it also became a proxy battlefield for regional and global interests. Iran and Russia sided with Mr. Assad. Arab Gulf nations sided with the rebels, though not always with the same rebels. The United States called for Mr. Assad to go, but never fully engaged.
然而，随着叙利亚冲突从和平、广泛的变革呼声转变为让国家四分五裂的流血对抗，它也成为了一场争夺地区和全球利益的代理人战争。伊朗和俄罗斯站在阿萨德一边。阿拉伯海湾国家则支持反政府武装，虽然它们支持的派别并不总是相同。美国呼吁阿萨德下台，但从来没有深度参与其中。
The rise of the Islamic State militant group, also known as ISIS, prompted Mr. Obama to jump in, but under the auspices of an antiterrorism campaign. The United States was not taking sides in the civil war, or at least it did not intend to. But the minute it entered the battlefield, it inevitably muddled its standing in Syria and across the Middle East, analysts and experts in the region said.
激进组织伊斯兰国也称为ISIS。它的崛起促使奥巴马蹚入这滩浑水，不过目的是为了开展反恐行动。对于叙利亚内战，美国之前并没有支持任何一方，或者至少是没有这个打算。不过，中东地区的分析人士与专家表示，一旦亲临战场，美国在叙利亚及整个中东地区问题上的立场，就不可避免地会出现混乱。
When American attacks, for example, killed militants with the Nusra Front, a group linked to Al Qaeda, it angered some of the same Syrian insurgents who Mr. Obama has said will help make up a ground force against the Islamic State.
例如，美国的袭击导致与基地组织有关的努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)旗下的武装分子身亡。此举激怒了一些叙利亚叛军，而奥巴马此前曾表示，这些叛军会协助形成一支打击伊斯兰国的地面力量。
Some of the groups that had said they would support the United States’ mission have now issued statements condemning the American strikes on the Qaeda-linked militants. Those groups have also expressed concern that by making the Islamic State its priority, the United States has acknowledged that it does not seek to unseat Mr. Assad.
之前表示要支持美国反恐行动的团体中，已经有部分发表了声明，谴责美国攻击努斯拉阵线。这些团体还表达了一种担忧，即美国把打击伊斯兰国列为首要目标，相当于承认自己不打算推翻阿萨德政府。
Conversely, supporters of the Syrian government say hitting the Nusra Front is proof that the United States has switched sides.
相反，叙利亚政府的支持者则表示，袭击努斯拉阵线一事已经证明，美国转变了立场。
“Of course coordination exists,” said a pro-government Syrian journalist speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, who had criticized the prospect of the strikes but turned practically jubilant once they began. “How else do you explain the strikes on Nusra?”
“这里面当然存在协同，”一名亲政府的叙利亚记者说。因为担心遭报复，此人不愿具名。他之前曾批评美国准备发动空袭，但行动开始之后，他几乎是欢欣雀跃。“否则你怎么解释空袭努斯拉阵线的事呢？”
But the battle lines are not so clear-cut, as both sides try to spin the American involvement to their advantage, pressing Washington to shift even as Mr. Obama remains determined to stay his course. The Arab allies have, to Washington’s delight, made no effort to hide their involvement in the bombing raids. They have, in fact, even boasted of their roles.
但是，战线并没有划分得那么明确，双方阵营都试图将美国的干预为己所用，以此推动华盛顿转变思路，即便奥巴马仍然决心坚持自己的做法。让华盛顿感到高兴的是，各阿拉伯盟国均对参与轰炸一事毫不隐瞒。实际上，他们甚至还在夸耀自己的作用。
Saudi Arabia has released “Top Gun”-style photos of its pilots posing with their jets, and the United Arab Emirates has bragged that one of its pilots is a woman. But the delight has as much to do with the countries’ hope that the United States will eventually come around to helping oust Mr. Assad as it does with aiding the United States in a fight against extremism, analysts said.
沙特阿拉伯发布了《壮志凌云》(Top Gun)风格的照片：飞行员们在自己的战斗机前摆着姿势。阿联酋骄傲地表示，他们有一名女飞行员。但分析人士称，这种喜悦，不仅来源于他们确实协助美国打击了极端分子，也同等程度地来自于他们希望美国最终会转而支持推翻阿萨德。
“The key Gulf states agreed to the American request in a large part to try to steer America’s Syria policy after years of frustration,” said Emile Hokayem, a Middle East analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “They believed that if they had said no to the Americans, the hope for a shift in U.S. policy toward Syria would be nil.”
“重要的海湾国家之所以同意协助美国，在很大程度上是因为，在经历数年的失望之后，它们试图引导美国的叙利亚政策，”国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)中东问题分析师埃米尔·霍卡彦姆(Emile Hokayem)说。“他们相信，如果自己拒绝了美国人，那么美国转变对叙政策的事情就毫无指望了。”