WASHINGTON — President Obama offered an impassioned defense of the Affordable Care Act on Monday, acknowledging the technical failures of the HealthCare.gov Web site, but providing little new information about the problems with the online portal or the efforts by government contractors to fix it.
华盛顿——周一，奥巴马总统充满激情地对《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)进行了辩护，他承认政府医改网站(HealthCare.gov)存在技术问题，但却没有就这个网络门户的问题和政府承包商的修理工作提供什么新信息。
With Republican critics seizing on the Web site’s issues as evidence of deeper flaws in the health care law, Mr. Obama sought to deflect attention from the continuing problems by focusing on ways to get coverage without going online. Like a TV pitchman, the president urged viewers to call the government’s toll-free number for health insurance, acknowledging that “the wait times probably might go up a little bit now.”
共和党抓住网站的问题，作为医疗法案存在更深缺陷的证据，奥巴马则力图专注于网络以外的其他覆盖方式，以便转移人们对仍在继续的问题的注意力。奥巴马像电视推销员一样，呼吁听众拨打政府免费电话来解决医疗保险的问题，并承认“等待时间很可能加长了一点”。
In remarks in the Rose Garden, Mr. Obama acknowledged serious technical issues with the Web site, declaring that “no one is madder than me.” He offered no new information about how many people have managed to enroll since the online exchanges opened on Oct. 1. And he did not address questions about who, if anyone, might be held responsible for the failure.
奥巴马在白宫玫瑰园的讲话中承认医改网站存在严重技术问题，并宣称“没人比我更着急”。关于从10月1日在线交易开放以来有多少人登记成功，他没有提供任何新信息。有人问及是否该有人对此次网络故障负责，有的话又是谁，他没有回答。
The president and his top aides played down the importance of the online marketplace that his administration once heralded as the key to the law’s success. Mr. Obama promised that officials are working to fix the Web site, but said that Republican critics should “stop rooting” for the failure of a law that provides health insurance to people who do not have it.
奥巴马和他的高级助手淡化了网络市场的重要性，尽管他的政府曾将网络市场宣扬为医改法案成功的关键。奥巴马承诺官员正在着手修复网站，但表示，共和党批评者应该“停止”对这项将没有医保的人纳入医保范围的法律的失败之处“幸灾乐祸”。
“We did not wage this long and contentious battle just around a Web site,” Mr. Obama told supporters. “That’s not what this was about. We waged this battle to make sure that millions of Americans in the wealthiest nation on earth finally have the same chance to get the same security of affordable, quality health care as anybody else.”
“我们这场众说纷纭的漫长斗争不会只围绕一个网站展开，”奥巴马告诉支持者。“这不是这场斗争的关键所在。我们开展这项斗争，目的是确保这个世界最富裕国家的数百万美国人最终获得价格合理的优质医疗保险，像其他人一样。”
Speaker John A. Boehner said in a statement after the president’s event that the administration is “not prepared to be straight” with the American people about the issues involving the health care Web site and the insurance program behind it.
奥巴马发表讲话之后，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)在声明中说，在与医疗网站和它背后的保险项目相关的问题上，美国政府“没有准备好开诚布公地面对”美国人民。
“Every day, new questions about the president’s health care law arise, but candid explanations are nowhere to be found,” said Mr. Boehner, of Ohio. “This decision continues a troubling pattern of this administration seeking to avoid accountability and stonewall the public.”
“关于总统的医疗法案，每天都有新问题产生，但是我们却找不到任何清楚的解释，”来自俄亥俄州的博纳说。“这届政府总是希望逃避责任、回避公众，这种决定延续了这种成问题的模式。”
As they have pushed to repeal or defund Mr. Obama’s signature health care law, Republicans have demanded that the administration provide data to show how many — or how few — people have enrolled in health insurance plans through the online portal. On Monday, White House officials again refused, saying they plan to offer such numbers in mid-November and monthly after that.
共和党人已经推动撤销奥巴马签署的医改法或取消其资助，并已要求美国政府提供数据，说明通过门户网站参加医保计划的人数究竟有多大，或者究竟有多小。周一，白宫官员再次拒绝提供数据，称他们计划在11月中旬提供此类数据，以后每月都会提供。
The White House refusal to provide enrollment data stands in contrast to the administration’s insistence that states submit detailed weekly reports on the number and characteristics of people who sign up for insurance through state-run exchanges. The Department of Health and Human Services said it needed the data so it could “track those measures which have the most potential to adversely impact beneficiaries related to their ability to enroll in insurance plans.”
白宫拒绝提供投保数据的行为与政府的要求形成了鲜明对比，因为政府坚持要求各州每周提交详细报告，提供投保数据，说明通过州运营的医保交易所申请加入医保计划的人群的特征。美国卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)表示，该部门需要这些数据，以便“对某些措施进行追踪，这些措施很可能会对受益人获取医保资格的能力产生不利影响”。
The department said it wanted to shine a spotlight on the performance of state exchanges, which were built with the help of federal money, and it emphasized the importance of “transparency in the performance of marketplaces.”
该部门表示，他们希望彰显在联邦资金帮助下建立的州级医保交易所的业绩，并强调了“交易场所业绩透明度”的重要性。
Moreover, the administration said that frequent reporting of performance data was needed so federal officials could spot problems with the state exchanges and step in to help fix them. In fact, the state exchanges have generally performed better than the federal exchange.
此外，政府曾表示他们需要相关部门频繁提交工作数据报告，以便联邦官员及时发现州级医保交易所的问题，并介入帮助解决问题。实际上，州级医保交易所通常比联邦医保交易所做得更好。
With many consumers still unable to use the online portal, health policy experts outside the government have begun discussing possible ways to provide relief if the problem continues.
鉴于很多用户仍然无法使用门户网站，政府外部的健康政策专家已经开始讨论，如果问题继续存在，可以通过哪些途径进行缓解。
One option is to extend the six-month enrollment period, which is set to end on March 31. Another is to exempt some people from the tax penalties that apply to those who go without insurance in 2014.
选择之一是延长六个月的投保期限，原定的截止日期为3月31日。另一个选择是免除一部分没有获得2014年医保的人的税务罚款。
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, did not rule out such relief, but suggested that it would be unnecessary if the administration fixed the Web site so people could enroll easily in the near future.
白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)没有排除采取此类缓解举措的可能，但他暗示，如果政府修复了网站，就没必要采取此类措施，人们可以在不久的将来简便地进行投保。
Over the weekend, the administration announced a “tech surge” that would bring in “the best and the brightest from both inside and outside government” to fix the Web site. But on Monday, White House officials declined to answer questions about the contractors who designed HealthCare.gov or to provide the names of the “experts from some of America’s top private-sector tech companies” that the president said have offered to help the government fix the site.
上周末，奥巴马政府宣布实施“技术突进”，将会请“政府内外最好、最优秀的技术人员”来修复网站。但周一，白宫官员拒绝回答有关设计HealthCare.gov网站的承包商的问题，也拒绝提供“来自美国顶级私营科技公司的专家”的名字，奥巴马曾表示，这些专家愿意为修复网站提供帮助。