UNITED NATIONS — President Obama on Wednesday charted a muscular new course for the United States in a turbulent world, telling the United Nations General Assembly in a bluntly worded speech that the American military would work with allies to dismantle the Islamic State’s “network of death” and warning Russia that it would pay for its bullying of Ukraine.
联合国——周三，奥巴马总统为身处动荡世界中的美国勾画了一条强悍的新路线，在联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的演讲上，他直截了当地表明，美国军方会和盟友合作，摧毁伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的“死亡网络”，并警告俄罗斯要为欺凌乌克兰付出代价。
Two days after ordering airstrikes on dozens of militant targets in Syria, Mr. Obama issued a fervent call to arms against the Islamic State — the once-reluctant warrior now apparently resolved to waging a twilight struggle against Islamic extremism for the remainder of his presidency.
两天前下令对叙利亚的数十个激进分子目标发起空袭的奥巴马，用激烈的言辞呼吁武力对抗伊斯兰国——看起来，这个一度有所顾虑的勇士，现在决定在自己总统任期的剩余时间里，对伊斯兰极端势力展开一场黄昏之战。
“Today, I ask the world to join in this effort,” Mr. Obama said, seeking to buttress a global coalition that he said would train and equip troops to fight the group, also known ISIL, starve it of financial resources, and halt the flow of foreign recruits to its ranks.
“今天，我请求全世界加入这场行动，”奥巴马说，他希望巩固一个全球联盟，训练和装备部队与这个又称为ISIL的组织作战，掐断其财务来源，并遏制其征召外国人入伍的趋势。
“Those who have joined ISIL should leave the battlefield while they can,” Mr. Obama said, foreshadowing the blows to come. “For we will not succumb to threats, and we will demonstrate that the future belongs to those who build, not those who destroy.” The brutality of the militants, he said, “forces us to look into the heart of darkness.”
“那些加入了ISIL的人应当抓紧时间离开战场，”奥巴马说，他预示未来还有一系列的打击行动。“因为我们不会屈从于威胁，我们会证明，未来属于那些致力于建设而非毁灭的人。”他说，这些激进分子的残暴“迫使我们将目光投向黑暗的深处”。
Even so, Mr. Obama said, the threat from the Islamic State was only the most urgent of an onslaught of global challenges that have given the United States no choice but to take the lead: from resisting Russia’s aggression against Ukraine to coordinating a response to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa; from brokering a new unity government in Afghanistan to organizing a new campaign to confront climate change.
然而奥巴马还提到，来自伊斯兰国的威胁，只是眼下这一轮气势汹汹的全球挑战中最紧迫的一个，这些挑战让美国别无选择，只能带头采取行动：从阻止俄罗斯对乌克兰的侵略，到协调统一行动应对西非的埃博拉疫情爆发；从在阿富汗斡旋建立一个联合新政府，到筹划一场应对气候变化的新运动。
It was a starkly different president than the one who addressed skeptical world leaders at the General Assembly last year, two weeks after calling off a missile strike on Syria over its use of chemical weapons. In that speech, Mr. Obama offered a shrunken list of American priorities in the Middle East and showed little appetite for the charged rhetoric or interventionist policies of his predecessor, George W. Bush.
这是一位焕然一新的总统，相比去年在联合国大会上面对心存疑虑的各国领导人讲话时的那位，有天壤之别，在那次讲话的两周前，他取消了针对叙利亚使用化学武器的行为而发起的导弹袭击。奥巴马在去年的讲话里就美国在中东的紧要事务列出了一份缩水的清单，表明他对前任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)那种激烈昂扬的言辞和热衷干预的政策没有什么兴趣。
Mr. Obama on Wednesday spoke more like a wartime leader, reaffirming his determination to work with other countries but leaving little doubt that the United States would act as the ultimate guarantor of an international order that he said was under acute stress.
奥巴马在周三的讲话更像是一位战时领袖，他重申了自己和其他国家合作的决心，但非常明确地表示美国会是国际秩序的一个终极捍卫者，而他认为这种秩序目前正岌岌可危。
As if to underscore his new role, Mr. Obama chaired a rare leaders session of the United Nations Security Council, which unanimously passed a resolution requiring countries to pass laws against traveling abroad to join terrorist groups or financing those efforts.
也许是为了突显他的这种新角色，奥巴马罕见地主持了一场联合国安全理事会(United Nations Security Council)会议，会上一致通过了一项决议，要求各国立法阻止本国人前往海外参加恐怖主义组织，或向这些组织提供资金支持。
“If there was ever a challenge in our interconnected world that cannot be met by one nation alone, it is this,” he said, “terrorists crossing borders and threatening to unleash unspeakable violence.”
“如果在这个交织互联的世界里，有什么困难是无法由一个国家单独去面对的，那就是眼下这件事了，”他说，“恐怖分子正在跨越国境线，通过难以用语言形容的暴力行径要挟我们。”
In addressing the Ukraine crisis, Mr. Obama used his strongest language yet, portraying Russia’s incursions as an affront to the principles of the United Nations and promising to levy a cost on President Vladimir V. Putin. He accused Russia of conspiring with Ukrainian separatists to obstruct an investigation into a downed Malaysian jetliner.
谈及乌克兰危机，奥巴马采取了前所未有的强硬措辞，形容俄罗斯的侵犯行动公然违背联合国准则，并承诺要让弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)付出代价。他指责俄罗斯与乌克兰分离主义分子合谋，阻挠针对马来西亚民航客机被击落一事进行的调查。
“This is a vision of the world in which might makes right,” he said, “a world in which one nation’s borders can be redrawn by another, and civilized people are not allowed to recover the remains of their loved ones because of the truth that might be revealed.”
“这是把世界设想成了一个强横即是正义的地方，”他说，“在这个世界里，一个国家的国境线可以被另一个国家改变，文明的人无法取回亲友的遗骨，就因为有人担心真相败露。”
The 39-minute speech was also notable for what Mr. Obama did not say. Last year, he singled out nuclear negotiations with Iran and Syria’s civil war as two of his top priorities in the Middle East. On Wednesday, he mentioned them in only a cursory manner.
同样值得注意的，是奥巴马在这场39分钟的演讲中没有说的事。去年他特别提到，与伊朗的核谈判以及叙利亚内战是他在中东的两件头等大事。但在周三，这些只是一带而过。
In a sign of how the fight against the Islamic State has reordered priorities, Mr. Obama pledged to train and equip moderate rebels in Syria — something he long resisted and labeled a fantasy. He repeated calls for a political settlement to end the civil war, acknowledging that “cynics may argue that such an outcome can never come to pass.”
与伊斯兰国的战斗改变了奥巴马对轻重缓急的安排，这体现在他誓称要向叙利亚温和派反叛人士提供培训和装备上，而此前他一直拒绝这样做，并称之为天方夜谭。他重复了对达成政治和解，以结束内战的呼吁，并承认“质疑者也许会认为，这样的结果是不可能实现的”。
Mr. Obama only fleetingly addressed another of last year’s priorities, the Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, delivering a mild rebuke to the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. “The violence engulfing the region today has made too many Israelis ready to abandon the hard work of peace,” he said. “That’s something worthy of reflection within Israel,” he added, in a line that was not in his prepared text.
还有一项去年的重点事务，奥巴马只是做了简短的陈述，那就是以色列-巴勒斯坦和平谈判，他对以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)的政府进行了温和批评。“今天在该地区肆虐的暴力，已经令太多以色列人打算放弃实现和平的艰难任务，”他说。“这是值得以色列去反思的，”而这段话并不在他准备好的讲稿里。
With much of the day’s focus on the threat from foreign fighters, Mr. Obama took pains to address it. In an echo of the 2009 speech in Cairo that was aimed at the Islamic world, he issued a direct appeal to young Muslims, urging them to resist the blandishments of violent jihadism.
境外武装人员的威胁是当天的主要话题，为此奥巴马在这方面费了相当多的口舌。他直接面向年轻的穆斯林，呼吁他们不要被暴虐成性的圣战主义所蒙骗，这与2009年他在开罗向伊斯兰世界的讲话形成了呼应。
“You come from a great tradition that stands for education, not ignorance; innovation, not destruction; the dignity of life, not murder,” Mr. Obama said. “Those who call you away from this path are betraying this tradition, not defending it.”
“你们有着一个伟大的传统，它支持教育，反对无知；支持创新，反对毁坏；支持生命的尊严，反对杀戮，”奥巴马说。“那些要你们离开这条道路的人，是在背弃传统，不是在捍卫它。”