BERLIN — I have long been a critic of the German foreign policy debate — of its freeloading on the American security umbrella, coupled with moral grandstanding whenever the Americans did things their way; of too much analysis of past events and not enough thinking about how to get things right in the future; of its tendency to take words as a substitute for deeds. That’s why I have usually given the Americans the benefit of the doubt: At least they took on problems nobody else was willing to tackle.
柏林——长期以来，我一直是德国外交政策的批评者——它靠美国人撑起的安全保护伞坐享其成，而当美国人按自己的意愿行事时，它又用道德说教来哗众取宠；它对过去的事件进行了太多分析，却不去充分思考未来如何把事情做好；它还总是倾向于只说不做。所以我对美国人通常没有什么挑剔：至少他们愿意面对别人都不愿意解决的问题。
But then, at the height of the Syria conflict and just after yet another of Barack Obama’s speeches, I suddenly understood the problem with this American president and his foreign policy. He sounded just like a German politician: all moral outrage, but little else to help end one of the most devastating civil wars of our age. President Obama, I thought with a sigh, has become European.
不过后来，当叙利亚冲突深重之际，在奥巴马不久前又发表了一番演讲之后，我突然明白了这位美国总统及其外交政策的问题所在。他的话听起来就像是一位德国政治人物：全是道德上的义愤，但除此之外，面对这个时代堪称最为惨烈的内战，他却没有采取任何行动来给予帮助。我叹息了一声，心想，奥巴马总统已经欧化了。
Indeed, the less this president wants to get involved in something abroad, the more he dials up his rhetoric. That the American president finds things “unacceptable,” one of his administration’s favorite words, doesn’t carry any real meaning anymore; it certainly doesn’t mean that America will try to change what it deems “unacceptable.”
的确，奥巴马越不想卷入国外的事务，就越会提高调门。这位美国总统认为某事“不可接受”，已经不再有实际意义，它绝不意味着美国想要改变在它看来“不可接受”的状况，虽然这是奥巴马政府最喜欢使用的表述之一。
One school of thought holds that President Obama is only executing the will of the people by staying out of conflicts around the globe. After two wars Americans are tired, so the reasoning goes, and need a respite from the world. And after the country recovers economically and mentally, it will return to be its true global self.
一种观点认为，奥巴马置身全球各地的冲突之外，只是在执行美国人民的意志。这里面的逻辑是，在经过两场战争之后，美国人已经累了，需要从世界事务中抽身出来，喘息一下。而当美国在经济和心理上恢复之后，就会回归那个全球化的真正自我。
Or maybe not. Maybe, as Peter Beinart argued earlier this year in National Journal, Americans are becoming more European in many respects, from attitudes on social welfare — like their grudging but growing acceptance of Obamacare — to religion and foreign policy.
或许实情并不是这样，也许正如彼得·贝纳特(Peter Beinart)今年早些时候在《国家期刊》(National Journal)上所写的那样，美国人在许多方面正在变得更像欧洲人，从对社会福利的态度——比如他们虽不情愿，却逐渐接受了奥巴马医改——到宗教和外交政策。
Polls suggest that Americans are not happy with the results of Mr. Obama’s foreign policy, though they still shy away from the costs that more engagement around the globe would entail. Welcome to my world. It sounds awfully European to want to have one’s cake and eat it at the same time.
调查显示，美国人对奥巴马外交政策的效果并不满意，不过，他们仍然不愿意承担更多地参与全球事务的成本。欢迎来到我的世界。既想留住蛋糕，又想把它吃掉，这听起来简直和欧洲人一模一样。
There is a certain irony in the fact that President Obama’s foreign policy finds its Waterloo in the same country that shipwrecked the Bush doctrine: Iraq. It is true that the Bush administration seriously mishandled the war in Iraq. But it is also true that after the surge, George W. Bush handed Mr. Obama an Iraq that was in much better shape than it is today.
奥巴马的外交政策在布什的外交方针折戟的地方——伊拉克——遭遇滑铁卢，这具有一定的讽刺意味。的确，布什政府在伊拉克战争中犯了严重的错误。但另一个事实是，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)把伊拉克交给奥巴马时，伊拉克的状态比今天的要好得多。
By rushing to the exit and teaming up with the Iranians to reinstall Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki after he lost the elections in 2010 — and by not confronting him forcefully on his anti-Sunni policies — the Obama administration undermined the progress American troops had paid for very dearly.
美国匆忙撤出伊拉克，并与伊朗合力帮助2010年败选的总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)重新就职，而面对马利基反逊尼派的政策，又没有强硬地提出反对——通过这些举动，奥巴马政府破坏了美国军队用高昂代价换取的进展。
Then came another deed of omission in Syria. For years Middle East experts had warned that the civil war in Syria would not be confined to that country, but would spill over into neighboring countries. But Mr. Obama stood back, using rhetoric and admonitions while ignoring the experts. Yet they were right: The crisis in Iraq is a direct result of Mr. Obama’s nonconfrontational strategy in Syria.
随后，美国在叙利亚问题上又出现了疏忽。多年以来，中东问题专家一直警告，叙利亚内战不会局限在该国境内，还会波及邻国。但奥巴马没有插手，只是演讲和劝告，对这些专家的提醒置若罔闻。专家们说对了：目前的伊拉克危机是奥巴马在叙利亚采取非对抗策略的直接后果。
When he was first elected in 2008, Barack Obama was hailed on the old Continent as a president with almost European sensitivities and worldviews. But the compliment was unintentionally double-edged. For more than two decades now, Europeans have assumed that the world would remain comparatively stable and wouldn’t need much hard power to be maintained (at least European hard power, that is). So too, it seems, does Mr. Obama.
2008年初次当选时，奥巴马受到了欧洲人的欢迎，后者认为他拥有近乎欧洲人的那种敏感性和世界观。但这种赞美却在无意间成了一把双刃剑。20多年来，欧洲人一直认为，世界会保持相对稳定，不需要太多的硬实力来维护秩序（至少不需要欧洲的硬实力）。似乎奥巴马也是这么认为的。
While Mr. Obama’s new style of diplomacy — soft power and nonintervention — was at first seen as a welcome break with the Bush years, five years later a dismal realization has set in. It turns out that soft power cannot replace hard power. On the contrary, soft power is merely a complementary foreign policy tool that can yield results only when it is backed up by real might and the political will to employ it if necessary.
尽管奥巴马新的外交风格——软实力和不干预——最初因为没有走布什时代的老路而受到欢迎，但五年后，却有越来越多的人幡然醒悟。人们发现，软实力不能取代硬实力。相反，软实力只是一种补充性的外交政策工具，只有以真正的实力，以及在必要时运用这种实力的政治意愿为后盾，软实力才能产生作用。
Ultimately, the measuring stick for a successful foreign policy is not how many nice and convincing speeches a leader makes, but whether he succeeds in getting things to go his way. And in this respect Mr. Obama’s low-impact foreign policy was simply not enough. Because if America stays out of the fray, there are many others who will fill the void: Bashar al-Assad, Hezbollah, Iran, Russia; the list of actors and countries that are actively pushing against European and American interests, and getting away with it, grows ever longer.
归根结底，成功外交政策的检验标准不是领导人发表了多少动听而有说服力的演讲，而是他能否把事情做成。在这一方面，奥巴马低影响力的外交政策根本不够。因为如果美国置身冲突之外，许多其他势力就会填补这个空缺：巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)、真主党(Hezbollah)、伊朗、俄罗斯；它们正积极地挤压欧洲和美国的利益，而且无所顾忌，这样的势力和国家数量还在不断增多。