ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — Without ever quite saying so explicitly, President Obama used his four-day trip to Africa to suggest that the United States offers an alternative to China’s aggressive courtship of the continent.
埃塞俄比亚亚的斯亚贝巴——虽然没有明说，但奥巴马总统在为期四天的非洲之行中表达了这样的意思：面对中国在这片大陆极力示好的举动，美国为非洲提供了另一个选择。
At a time when China has surpassed the United States as a trading partner and left its mark throughout Africa, Mr. Obama essentially made the argument that Washington offers a better, more empowering vision for Africa’s future.
作为非洲的贸易伙伴，中国目前已经超越美国，而且在非洲各地留下了足迹。奥巴马基本上是在表示，华盛顿为非洲的未来提供了一种更好的、更具赋权性质的愿景。
Whether he succeeded in this mission remained to be seen. But at all of his stops, he laid out the case that Africa should be wary of China’s appetite for oil for its own use and instead embrace an American relationship that seeks to foster economic growth, democracy, health care, education and electrification.
他是否成功地完成了这一使命仍有待观察。但每到一个地方，奥巴马都表示，非洲应该警惕中国获取石油供自己使用的胃口，转而努力与美国发展关系，后者能促进经济、民主、医疗保健、教育和电气化的发展。
“The United States isn’t the only country that sees your growth as an opportunity, and that is a good thing,” Mr. Obama told African leaders in a speech here in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, before returning to Washington. He urged Africans to do business with everyone.
“把你们的增长看作机遇的国家不只有美国，这是一件好事，”奥巴马对非洲领导人说。他是在返回华盛顿之前，在埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴发表演讲时说这番话的。他敦促非洲要与所有人做生意。
“But economic relationships can’t simply be about building countries’ infrastructure with foreign labor or extracting Africa’s natural resources,” he said. “Real economic partnerships have to be a good deal for Africa. They have to create jobs and capacity for Africans.”
“但是，经济关系不能仅限于靠外国劳工来建设国家的基础设施，或是开采非洲的自然资源，”他说。“真正的经济伙伴关系必须要对非洲有益。要为非洲人创造就业机会，提升他们的能力。”
“That,” he added, “is the kind of partnership America offers.”
“美国提供的伙伴关系就是这种类型，”他说。
But the depth of the challenge was all around Mr. Obama. He was delivering that message at the gleaming headquarters of the African Union, built with Chinese money. Outside the building, a jumbo screen bore the name of Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency. Throughout Africa are highways, railroads and airports that have been or will be upgraded by China.
但这个挑战的严峻程度在奥巴马身边就显而易见。他是在非洲联盟(African Union)闪闪发亮的总部说这番话的，该建筑用中国的资金建成，楼外的巨型屏幕上有中国国家通讯社新华社的名字。中国已经在非洲各地翻新改建了很多公路、铁路和机场，还将继续这么做。
Indeed, China’s news media mocked Mr. Obama’s visit, casting it as a weak effort in a contest he was losing.
事实上，中国媒体对奥巴马访非进行了嘲笑，形容那是在一场必败的比赛中，无力地挣扎。
“Obama’s high-profile visit has one more purpose, which is offsetting China’s growing influence in this continent and recovering past U.S. leverage,” said a column in Global Times, an English-language Chinese newspaper. “His diplomatic rhetoric,” it added, “can’t conceal the notion that the U.S. is nervous about its rise, taking China as a rival in Africa.”
“奥巴马高调访非还有一个目的，就是要抗衡中国在非洲日益增强的影响力，恢复美国过去在那里的势力，”《环球时报》英文版的一篇专栏文章说。“他的外交辞令无法掩饰美国对中国崛起的担忧，在非洲，美国把中国当作了对手。”
China has far outpaced the United States in economic interaction with Africa since Mr. Obama took office. While trade between the United States and Africa rose from $33 billion in 2002 to a high of $142 billion in 2008, it has since declined to $73 billion last year and is falling still more this year.
从奥巴马上任以来，中国与非洲的经济往来已经远远超过了美国。虽然美国和非洲之间的贸易额从2002年的330亿美元，增加到2008年1420亿美元的高点，但之后就开始下滑。去年下降到了730亿美元，今年还会下降更多。
China, by contrast, doubled its trade with Africa over just four years, to $222 billion last year.
中国则相反，在短短四年内，它与非洲的贸易额翻了一番，去年提高到了2220亿美元。