In a week when he tried to focus attention on the struggles of the middle class, President Obama said in an interview that he was worried that years of widening income inequality and the lingering effects of the financial crisis had frayed the country’s social fabric and undermined Americans’ belief in opportunity.
在同一周里，奥巴马总统不仅努力把注意力集中在中产阶级的困境上，还接受采访称，他担心多年来收入不平等的加剧和金融危机挥之不去的影响已经破坏了美国的社会结构，并且损害了美国人对机遇的信念。
Upward mobility, Mr. Obama said in a 40-minute interview with The New York Times, “was part and parcel of who we were as Americans.”
奥巴马在接受《纽约时报》40分钟的采访时说，向上的社会流动性是“我们之为美国人不可缺少的一部分”。
“And that’s what’s been eroding over the last 20, 30 years, well before the financial crisis,” he added.
“但这一点在过去二三十年里一直被侵蚀，远在本轮金融危机之前，”他补充说。
“If we don’t do anything, then growth will be slower than it should be. Unemployment will not go down as fast as it should. Income inequality will continue to rise,” he said. “That’s not a future that we should accept.”
“如果我们什么都不做，那么经济增长就会比应有的速度要慢。失业率就不会以应有的速度降下去。收入不平等会进一步加剧，”他说，“这不是一个我们应当接受的未来。”
A few days after the acquittal in the Trayvon Martin case prompted him to speak about being a black man in America, Mr. Obama said the country’s struggle over race would not be eased until the political process in Washington began addressing the fear of many people that financial stability is unattainable.
数天前特雷翁·马丁(Trayvon Martin)案被告无罪释放曾促使奥巴马谈起身为一名美国黑人的感受。在本次访问中，奥巴马称，美国的种族斗争不会停止，除非华盛顿的政治进程开始着手去处理许多人的担忧，他们认为自己永远也无法实现财务上的稳定。
“Racial tensions won’t get better; they may get worse, because people will feel as if they’ve got to compete with some other group to get scraps from a shrinking pot,” Mr. Obama said. “If the economy is growing, everybody feels invested. Everybody feels as if we’re rolling in the same direction.”
“种族冲突不会好转，可能还会恶化，因为人们感到他们必须与其他团体竞争，以求在不断恶化的经济中分一点残羹冷炙，”奥巴马说。“如果经济在增长，每个人都会觉得自己是其中的一份子。每个人都会觉得我们是在向同一个方向前进。”
Mr. Obama, who this fall will choose a new chairman of the Federal Reserve to share economic stewardship, expressed confidence that the trends could be reversed with the right policies.
奥巴马将在今秋选择一名新的联储主席来分担经济管理职责。他表达了自信，称正确的政策可以扭转当前的趋势。
The economy is “far stronger” than four years ago, he said, yet many people who write to him still do not feel secure about their future, even as their current situation recovers.
他表示，经济要“远强过”四年前，然而许多给他写信的人仍然对自己的未来感到不安，即便他们目前的状况已经在恢复。
“That’s what people sense,” he said. “That’s why people are anxious. That’s why people are frustrated.”
“这就是人们的感受，”他说，“这就是为什么人们感到焦虑。这就是为什么人们感到沮丧。”
Without a shift in Washington to encourage growth over “damaging” austerity, he added, not only would the middle class shrink, but in turn, contentious issues like trade, climate change and immigration could become harder to address.
他还补充说，如果华盛顿不能转而鼓励增长，而不是“破坏性的”紧缩政策，不仅中产阶级会缩水，接下来贸易、气候变化和移民之类的争议性议题也会变得更难处理。
Striking a feisty note at times, he vowed not to be cowed by his Republican adversaries in Congress and said he was willing to stretch the limits of his powers to change the direction of the debate in Washington.
奥巴马时而加重语气，誓言自己不会被国会的共和党对手所吓倒，并称他愿意尽其所能以改变华盛顿辩论的方向。
“I will seize any opportunity I can find to work with Congress to strengthen the middle class, improve their prospects, improve their security,” Mr. Obama said. But he added, “I’m not just going to sit back if the only message from some of these folks is no on everything, and sit around and twiddle my thumbs for the next 1,200 days.”
“我将抓住能够找到的任何机会来与国会合作，以支持中产阶级，改善他们的前景，增进他们的安全，”奥巴马说。但他还补充说，“假如其中一些人对于一切只是说‘不’的话，我也不会坐视不理，在接下来的1200天里消磨时间。”
Addressing for the first time one of his most anticipated decisions, Mr. Obama said he had narrowed his choice to succeed Ben S. Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve to “some extraordinary candidates.” With current fiscal policy measurably slowing the recovery, many in business and finance have looked to the Fed to continue its expansionary monetary policies to offset the drag.
奥巴马还首次谈到一个备受外界期待的人选问题，他表示，已将取代本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)担任美联储主席的人选缩小到“一些出色的候选人”身上。由于目前的财政政策明显拖累了经济复苏，许多工商界和金融界人士指望美联储继续将其扩张性货币政策进行下去，以抵消这种障碍。
Mr. Obama said he wanted someone who would not just work abstractly to keep inflation in check and ensure stability in the markets. “The idea is to promote those things in service of the lives of ordinary Americans getting better,” he said. “I want a Fed chairman that can step back and look at that objectively and say, Let’s make sure that we’re growing the economy.”
奥巴马说他希望这个人不要一味脱离实际地去控制通胀和保障市场稳定。“我的目标是，为了改善普通美国民众的生活而推动这些事情。我期望美联储主席能够退后一步，客观地看待这一点，然后说，‘我们要确保自己是在促进经济的增长，’”他说。
The leading Fed candidates are believed to be Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Obama’s former White House economic adviser and President Bill Clinton’s Treasury secretary, and Janet Yellen, the current Fed vice chairwoman and another former Clinton official. The president said he would announce his choice “over the next several months.”
据信美联储主席的热门人选有劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)和珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet Yellen)。前者曾任奥巴马的白宫经济顾问，以及比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府的财政部长；后者是目前的美联储副主席，也曾在克林顿政府任职。奥巴马表示，他将“在接下来几个月”宣布自己的人选。
More clearly than he did in three speeches on the economy last week — the next is scheduled for Tuesday in Chattanooga, Tenn. — Mr. Obama in the interview called for an end to the emphasis on budget austerity that Republicans ushered in when they captured control of the House in November 2010.
奥巴马上周进行了三次经济演讲，下次演讲定于本周二，地点是田纳西州的查塔努加。在本次访问中，他比上周更明确地呼吁，把重点放在预算紧缩上的做法应当结束了。而这种做法是共和党人于2010年11月赢得众议院控制权后一直在坚持的。
The priority, he said, should be spending for infrastructure, education, clean energy, science, research and other domestic initiatives of the sort he twice campaigned on.
奥巴马表示，重点应当是投资基础设施、教育、清洁能源、科研，以及他在两次竞选总统中都倡议过的其他类似的国内项目。
“I want to make sure that all of us in Washington are investing as much time, as much energy, as much debate on how we grow the economy and grow the middle class as we’ve spent over the last two to three years arguing about how we reduce the deficits,” Mr. Obama said. He called for a shift “away from what I think has been a damaging framework in Washington.”
“我希望我们华盛顿的所有人能确保像过去两三年争论如何减赤一样，花同样多的时间、精力和口舌在促进经济增长、壮大中产阶级的方案上，”奥巴马说。他还呼吁，摒弃“华盛顿那种在我看来持续造成破坏的框架”。
The president did not say what his legislative strategy would be. Even as he spoke, House Republicans were pushing measures in the opposite direction: to continue into the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1 the indiscriminate across-the-board spending reductions — known as sequestration — that Mr. Obama opposes, and to cut his priorities deeper still.
奥巴马没有透露自己将来的立法策略。就在他说话的当口，众议院的共和党人已在推动与之相反的提案，要在10月1日开始的下个财年里继续推行总统反对的不加区分的全面减支，也就是所谓的“自动减赤”，并要在他的重点项目中进行进一步的削减。
Republicans are also threatening to block an increase in the government’s borrowing limit — an action that must be taken by perhaps November to avoid financial crisis — unless Congress withholds money for his health care law.
共和党人还威胁，他们将阻止政府举债上限的提高，除非国会不给奥巴马的医改法案拨款。要想避免金融危机，这一上限大概在11月前必须得到提升。
Mr. Obama said he would push ahead with a series of speeches that lay out his agenda ahead of the fights this fall with Congress. “If once a week I’m not talking about jobs, the economy, and the middle class,” he said, “then all matter of distraction fills the void.”
奥巴马表示，今秋与国会展开对决前，他将一往直前，用一系列演讲陈述自己的构想。他说，“如果偶尔有哪一周，我没有讨论就业、经济和中产阶级问题，那么各种分心之事就会见缝插针地挤进来。”