FOR much of his public life, Barack Obama has been navigating between people who think he is too black and people who think he is not black enough.
在他投身政坛后的大部分时间里，贝拉克·奥巴马一直在两个人群之间谨慎平衡，其中一个人群认为他“太黑了”，而另一个人群认为他“不够黑”。
The former group speaks mostly in dog-whistle innuendo and focuses on proxy issues to emphasize Obama’s ostensible otherness: his birth certificate, his supposed adherence to “black liberation theology” (presumably before he converted to Islam), his “Kenyan, anticolonial” worldview. Jonathan Alter’s recent book on Obama’s presidency sums up these notions as symptoms of “Obama Derangement Syndrome” — a disorder whose subtext is more often than not: he’s too black.
前一个人群的话大多是双关语式的旁敲侧击，抓住一些间接的问题来强调奥巴马的表面差异：他的出生证，他据称皈依“黑人解放神学”（想必那是在他皈依伊斯兰教之前），他的“肯尼亚特色的反殖民主义”世界观。乔纳森·奥尔特(Jonathan Alter)在最近出版的有关奥巴马总统任期的书中，把这些说法总结为“奥巴马精神错乱综合征”(Obama Derangement Syndrome)的症状，这一精神病症的潜台词多半是：他太黑了。
On the other side are African-Americans and liberals who are disappointed that Obama has not made it his special mission to call out the racism that still festers in American society and rectify the racial imbalance in our economy, in our schools, in our justice system.
另一边是感到失望的非洲裔美国人和自由派人士，因为奥巴马未能大声指出美国社会仍在滋生的种族主义，纠正我国经济、学校和司法系统中的种族不平等，并将这方面的努力当成他的特殊使命。
“It has, at times, been painful to watch this particular president’s calibrated, cautious and sometimes callous treatment of his most loyal constituency,” the radio and TV host Tavis Smiley told The Times’s Jodi Kantor last year. That was one of the gentler rebukes from the not-black-enough camp.
“看着这位总统以精心盘算、谨慎，以及有时冷漠的方式对待自己最忠实的选民人群，往往令人难过，”广播电视主持人塔维斯·斯迈利(Tavis Smiley)在去年告诉《纽约时报》的约迪·康托尔(Jodi Kantor)说。这是认为奥巴马“不够黑”的人群中比较客气的批评之一。
Obama believes he best serves the country, and ultimately the interests of black Americans, by being the president of America, not the president of black America. Even when he speaks eloquently on the subject, as he did in his 2008 speech in Philadelphia, he presents himself as a bridge between white and black rather than the civil rights leader-in-chief. And even when his administration has undertaken reforms that address racial injustice — reinvigorating the moribund civil rights division of the Justice Department, for example — he does not call a news conference and make a big deal of it. This is certainly calibrated and cautious. But callous?
奥巴马相信，要想最好地服务于这个国家，最终服务于美国黑人的利益，就应当做美国的总统，而不只是美国黑人的总统。即便在这个议题上侃侃而谈时，例如他2008年在费城发表演讲时，他也是把自己定位于白人和黑人之间的桥梁，而不是首席民权领袖。甚至当他的政府针对种族不公正出台改革措施（例如重振司法部死气沉沉的公民权利部门）时，他也没有召开新闻发布会或大举造势。这肯定是精心盘算和谨慎的。但“冷漠”又从何说起呢？
Obama’s remarks on the death of Trayvon Martin — “could have been me 35 years ago” — reanimated the old divide. From the he’s-too-black sideline the president was predictably accused of indulging in “racial victimology” and “race baiting.” On the other side, some of those who had yearned for Obama to be more outspoken seized on his riff as a turning point; the president, a Detroit radio host exulted, “showed his brother card.” Charles Ogletree, a Harvard law professor who has known Obama for 25 years, told NPR he felt like “turning cartwheels” when he heard the remarks, and he declared he would now have to rethink a book-in-the-works, in which he had planned to criticize the president’s timidity on race.
奥巴马针对黑人少年特雷翁·马丁(Trayvon Martin)之死所说的话——“35年前可能发生在我身上”——揭开了老分歧的伤疤。在认为他“太黑了”的这一边，总统可以预见地被指沉迷于“自我种族受害者化”和“种族煽动”。在另一边，一直盼望奥巴马更加直言不讳的一些人把他的即兴独白视为一个转折点；一名底特律电台主持人欢呼道，总统“打出了他的（黑人）兄弟牌”。与奥巴马相识25年之久的哈佛大学法学教授查尔斯·欧格雷(Charles Ogletree)告诉国家公共电台(NPR)说，他听到这番话时兴奋得想“翻跟头”，他还宣告，现在他不得不重新考虑一本正在撰写的书，他本来打算在书中批评总统在种族问题上缩手缩脚。
“It seems to me he threw caution to the wind,” Ogletree told me. “It opens up a whole new chapter of Barack Obama.”
“在我看来，他把谨慎抛到了九霄云外，”欧格雷告诉我说。“这话翻开了贝拉克·奥巴马的新篇章。”
Does it? I, too, found Obama’s words moving in their emotional warmth and empathy. But if you go back and read them, now that the heat of the moment has cooled, you will see they are carefully measured and completely consistent with what he has said in his writing and speaking since he entered public life. The warrior against racism that critics on the right deplore and critics on the left demand is nowhere to be found. His comments on the pain and humiliation of racial profiling, which got the most attention, reprise a theme that goes back at least to his days as a state senator. His respectful treatment of the court that acquitted Martin’s killer and his nod to the pathologies of the black underclass got less notice.
真的吗？我也发现奥巴马的话传递温暖和同情，令人感动。但如果你回过头去读一读这些话，在当时的情绪冷却之后，你会看到他的措辞是精心把握分寸的，而且同他从政以来的著述和讲话完全一致。右翼批评者谴责，而左翼批评者渴求的那位反种族主义斗士并不存在。他对于种族定性所带来的痛苦和屈辱的评论，得到了最多的关注，但他至少在担任州参议员时就曾提到这个主题。而他对宣判杀害马丁者无罪的法院的尊重，以及他对底层黑人种种问题的承认，却未获得应有的注意。
“He basically says, try to understand this issue from the perspective of people different from yourself,” said Thomas Sugrue, a University of Pennsylvania historian who has written a book-length study of Obama and race. “And he says it to black folks and white folks.” But somehow listeners on both sides hear what they expect to hear, Sugrue said, on one side “a prophetic Martin Luther King Jr.,” on the other side “a pent-up Black Panther waiting to explode.”
“他基本上是在说，试着从不同于你自己的人的视角来看待这一问题，”宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)历史学家、曾写过有关奥巴马与种族问题的长篇研究报告的托马斯·萨格鲁(Thomas Sugrue)说。“而且他既是说给黑人，也是说给白人听的。”但不知何故两边的听众都听到了自己意料之中的话，用萨格鲁的话来说，一边觉得奥巴马听上去像是“先知般的小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)”，另一边则认为他听上去像是“等待爆发的被压抑的黑豹党徒”。
There’s a name for that: racial profiling. People may no longer give Obama suspicious glares in department stores or clutch their purses when he enters an elevator, but they have typecast him according to their own fears and expectations of a black man in the White House. They are still profiling Barack Obama.
对此有个名字：种族定性。人们也许不会再在百货商店向奥巴马投去怀疑的目光，也不会在他进入电梯后抓紧自己的钱包，但他们仍根据自己对一名黑人入主白宫的恐惧和预期，把他套进了他们设想的模子。他们仍在对奥巴马进行“对号入座”。
Those who hope his Trayvon talk signaled a new presidential activism on race will be watching two litmus tests. The first is whether Obama’s Justice Department will file a civil rights suit against George Zimmerman, the neighborhood watch enthusiast who shot Martin dead. The N.A.A.C.P. says more than a million people have signed petitions calling for Justice to prosecute Zimmerman for a hate crime. The second is whether the president will offer a cabinet post to Ray Kelly, the New York police commissioner who has presided over the aggressive stop-and-frisk policing of mostly black and Latino men. Obama’s public praise of Kelly as a possible secretary of homeland security prompted anger and amazement, some of it on this page. Was the president indifferent to Kelly’s role as, in Ta-Nehisi Coates’s words, “the proprietor of the largest local racial profiling operation in the country,” or simply inattentive?
那些希望奥巴马的特雷翁讲话标志着总统在种族问题上将拿出新举措的人，将密切关注两个关键考验。首先是奥巴马的司法部是否会对乔治·齐默尔曼(George Zimmerman)发起民权诉讼，后者就是开枪打死马丁的社区治安联防队积极分子。全国有色人种协进会(NAACP)表示，已有超过100万人在请愿书上署名，呼吁司法部以仇恨犯罪的罪名对齐默尔曼提起公诉。第二件事是，总统是否将为雷·凯利(Ray Kelly)提供一个内阁职位，这名纽约警察局长推出咄咄逼人的截停盘查警务实践，目标大多是黑人和拉丁裔人。奥巴马公开赞扬凯利，并称其或许是国土安全部部长的合适人选，这引起了愤怒和惊讶，其中一些可在本专栏看到。塔那西斯·科茨(Ta-Nehisi Coates)把凯利称为“全国最大的本地种族定性行动的发起者”，总统觉得凯利的这一角色无关紧要，还是疏忽了？
My guess is that the president will navigate those straits as he always has when race looms, carefully and without fanfare. If he is true to form, he will quietly pass over Kelly, because it’s now clear the appointment would become a major distraction from his agenda, because racial profiling is a lifelong personal sore spot for Obama, and because he has other, less polarizing options. He will leave George Zimmerman’s fate to Attorney General Eric Holder, who seems likely to conclude that a hate-crimes case would not stick and would be seen as putting politics over law. (The federal statute says it’s not enough to prove Zimmerman pursued Martin because of his race; the government would have to prove that racial prejudice was his motive for killing the teenager.) In his remarks on the case, Obama seemed to hint that the feds would not step in where the state has already ruled.
我的猜测是，总统将以他在种族问题被推至风口浪尖时的一贯做法，小心而不声张地应对这些考验。按照他的风格，他将悄悄放弃凯利，因为很明显这一任命将对他的议程构成重大干扰，因为种族定性对于奥巴马来说是一个终生的个人痛处，还因为他有不那么有争议的其他选择。他将会把乔治·齐默尔曼的命运留给司法部长埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder)去决定，后者似乎很可能得出这样的结论：将此案定性为仇恨犯罪将站不住脚，并且会被视为将政治置于法律之上。（按照联邦法律，证明齐默尔曼跟踪马丁是因为他的种族是不够的；政府必须证明，他杀害这名少年的动机是种族偏见。）奥巴马在就这一事件发表的讲话中似乎暗示，联邦官员不会介入州级法院已经作出判决的案件。
So if Obama’s Trayvon moment was not the debut of a new, more activist president, was it at least the beginning of a national conversation about race? If so, I doubt it will be a conversation led by the president. When race came up in an interview published in Sunday’s Times, he promptly segued into a discussion of economic strains on the social fabric.
那么，如果奥巴马的特雷翁时刻并不标志着一位更激进的新总统的登场，它是否至少将开启一场关于种族的国家对话？如果是的话，我怀疑这场对话将由总统引导。《纽约时报》周日发表的对奥巴马采访中，在谈到种族话题时，他迅速把这个问题纳入有关经济压力对社会结构造成影响的讨论。
And that’s O.K. President Obama has an economy to heal, a foreign policy to run, a daunting agenda blockaded by an intransigent opposition. Randall Kennedy, another Harvard law professor who has studied Obama and criticized him for a lack of audacity, says frustration should be tempered by realism. “My view of Obama is as a Jackie Robinson figure,” Kennedy told me. “Jackie Robinson breaks the color barrier and encounters all sorts of denigration, people spitting on him, and because he was a pioneer he had to be above it all. ... People expect Obama now to all of a sudden jump into this totally messy issue of race and the administration of criminal justice? It’s completely implausible. To do it would require a major investment of political capital.”
而这也没什么错。奥巴马总统需要治愈经济，需要运筹外交政策，他有一套艰巨的议程遭到死硬的反对派坚决反对。另一名研究了奥巴马的哈佛法学教授兰德尔·肯尼迪(Randall Kennedy)曾批评他缺乏魄力。现在他说，人们在失望之余也应当现实一些。“在我看来，奥巴马是杰基·鲁滨逊(Jackie Robinson)式的人物，”肯尼迪告诉我。“杰基·鲁滨逊打破了肤色的障碍并受到各种诋毁，人们朝他吐口水，而因为他是先驱，他必须超越这一切。……人们期望奥巴马现在突然跳进种族和刑事司法管理的泥潭？那是完全不切实际的。要那样做，必须投入大量的政治资本。”
And, come to think of it, why is that his special responsibility anyway?
而且，再仔细想想，为什么这要成为他的特别职责呢？
“There’s sort of a persistent misperception that talking about race is black folk’s burden,” said Benjamin Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P., when I asked him about Obama’s obligation. “Ultimately, only men can end sexism, and only white people can end racism.”
当我向NAACP会长本杰明·杰拉斯(Benjamin Jealous)问起奥巴马的责任时，他说，“有一种长期的误解是，谈论种族问题只是黑人的负担。最终而言，只有男人可以终结性别歧视，也只有白人可以终结种族歧视。”
Wouldn’t you like to hear John Boehner or Mitch McConnell or Chris Christie or Rick Perry own up as candidly as the president has to the corrosive vestiges of racism in our society? Now that might be an occasion to turn cartwheels.
难道你不想听到约翰·博纳(John Boehner)、米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)、克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)或里克·佩里(Rick Perry)像总统那样坦率承认，美国社会仍有种族主义的腐蚀性痕迹？那或许才是该翻跟头庆祝的时刻。