Omar Mateen, the Florida shooter who had pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, just ushered Donald Trump to the White House, Britain out of the European Union, Marine Le Pen to the French presidency, and the world into a downward spiral of escalating violence.
宣誓效忠伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的佛罗里达州枪击事件制造者奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)，引着唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)入主白宫、英国退出欧盟、马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)当上法国总统，并导致世界陷入暴力逐渐升级的恶性循环。
Aged 29, Mateen is the Gavrilo Princip of the early 21st century, the young man who ripped up an old, decaying political order. Like the 19-year-old Bosnian Serb nationalist whose bullets ignited World War I, Mateen has set a spark to a time of inflammable anger.
现年29岁的马廷是21世纪初的加夫里洛·普林西普(Gavrilo Princip)。年轻的普林西普撕碎了一个摇摇欲坠的旧政治秩序，他的子弹引爆了一战。和这位19岁的波斯尼亚塞尔维亚民族主义者一样，马廷点燃了一触即发的愤怒情绪。
Of course, these somber imaginings may prove to be no more than that. Mateen has not yet changed the world; he may never.
当然，事实可能会证明，这些令人沮丧的想象不过是想象而已。马廷并未改变世界。他可能永远都改变不了世界。
But there is no question that the largest mass shooting in American history comes at a time of particular unease. In both the United States and Europe, political and economic frustrations have produced a groundswell against the status quo and an apparent readiness to make a leap in the dark. Washington and Brussels have become bywords for paralysis.
但毫无疑问，美国历史上伤亡最惨重的这起大规模枪击事件，发生在一段特别不安定的时期。在美国和欧洲，对政治和经济的失望导致不满现状的呼声迅速高涨，民众似乎愿意冒险一试。华盛顿和布鲁塞尔成了无所作为的代名词。
Trump and “Brexit” represent action — any action — to shake things up. They are, to their supporters, the comeuppance smug elites deserve.
特朗普和“英国退出欧盟”代表着采取行动——不管是什么行动——改变这种局面。在支持者看来，这是自鸣得意的精英应得的惩罚。
On top of this, and feeding this, Islam is in epochal crisis. Its Sunni and Shiite branches are mired in violent confrontation. Its adjustment to the modern world has proved faltering and agonized enough to produce a metastasizing strain of violent anti-Western jihadist beliefs to which Mateen — like the San Bernardino shooters — was apparently susceptible.
此外，伊斯兰教正处在一场划时代的危机之中，加剧了时局的不稳。逊尼派和什叶派深陷暴力对抗的困境。事实证明，伊斯兰教对现代世界的适应颇为艰难，令很多人感到痛苦，结果催生了一种正在不断扩散的暴力反西方圣战主义信条。和圣贝纳迪诺的枪手一样，马廷似乎也受到了这种信条的影响。
That he shot revelers in a gay club suggests once again that Islam and sexuality constitute a particularly combustible realm. Liberal Western sexual mores are the most troubling affront to a certain strain of Islam. The resultant confrontation incubates explosive violence.
他朝一家同性恋夜店里的狂欢者开枪这一点再次表明，伊斯兰教和性取向构成了一个特别容易引爆的领域。对伊斯兰教的某一个派别来说，自由主义的西方性观念是最令人烦心的侮辱。由此产生的对抗滋生了一触即发的暴力。
It is 12 years since Theo van Gogh was murdered in Amsterdam by a Dutch-Moroccan Muslim jihadi for making a movie about the treatment of women in Islam; and now homosexuals at the Pulse club in Orlando are targeted by an American citizen of Afghan descent who, it seems, had also found in Islamic extremism the ideological answer to his troubles.
12年前，因为制作了一部介绍伊斯兰教如何对待女性的电影，特奥·梵高(Theo van Gogh)在阿姆斯特丹被一名摩洛哥裔荷兰穆斯林圣战分子杀害。今天，奥兰多“Pulse”夜店里的同性恋成为一名阿富汗裔美国公民的攻击目标。他似乎也在伊斯兰极端主义中给自己的烦恼找到了意识形态方面的答案。
It is poisonous to blame all the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims for this crisis of their religion. Trump’s self-congratulatory reiteration of his call for a temporary ban on non-American Muslims entering the United States exemplifies his violence-tinged politics of division. Michael Oren, the former Israeli ambassador to the United States, was quoted on Twitter hours after the massacre as saying: “If I were Trump, I’d emphasize the Muslim name, Omar Saddiqui Mateen. This changes race.” Later, he said Trump would do this, not that he had recommended it.
将伊斯兰教的这场危机归咎于全球16亿穆斯林的做法是极其有害无益的。特朗普沾沾自喜地再次呼吁暂时禁止非美国籍穆斯林入境。这正是他略带暴力性质的分裂政治的例证。杀戮事件发生几小时后，有人在Twitter上援引前以色列驻美国大使迈克尔·奥伦(Michael Oren)的话说：“如果我是特朗普，我会突出这个穆斯林名字，奥马尔·西迪奎·马廷。这一事件改变了竞选。”后来，他说特朗普会这么做，但不是他要建议这么做。
It is, however, also dangerous to ignore or belittle the potency of ISIS ideology, the core role it has played in recent violence from Paris to California, and the link between that ideology and the broader crisis of Islam. The favored phrase of the Obama administration in addressing this scourge — “violent extremism” — is vague to the point of evasive meaninglessness. Yes, jihadi terrorists are “violent extremists” but calling them that is like calling Nazism a reaction to German humiliation in World War I: true but wholly inadequate.
然而，忽略或轻视ISIS意识形态的影响力、这种意识形态在最近从巴黎到加州的暴力事件中所发挥的核心作用，以及它和伊斯兰教面临的广泛危机之间的联系，也很危险。提到这个问题时，奥巴马政府喜欢用的说法“暴力极端主义”是种含糊其辞，几乎相当于无意义。是的，圣战主义恐怖分子的确是“暴力极端分子”，但这么叫他们就好比说纳粹主义是回应德国在一战中所遭受的侮辱一样：符合实情但远远不够。
Mateen demonstrated again just how potent the mix of ISIS and National Rifle Association ideology is. America is the perfect setting for “lone wolf” ISIS followers because they have access to the weapons they need to do their worst. Despite having been investigated twice in recent years by the F.B.I. for possible ties to terrorism, Mateen was able to walk into a Florida gun dealership recently, and acquire a “long gun” and a pistol. This, by any reasonable standard, is madness.
马廷再次证明了ISIS和美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)的思想结合后力量会有多么强大。美国是“独狼”式的ISIS追随者的最佳环境，因为他们能获得作恶所需的武器。尽管近几年被联邦调查局(FBI)调查过两次，怀疑他和恐怖主义有联系，但前不久，马廷仍能够走进佛罗里达州的一家枪支经销店，买下一支“长枪”和一支手枪。按照任何一项合理的标准来看，这都愚蠢至极。
The AR-15 assault rifle used by Mateen was also the weapon used by the San Bernardino shooters. The former N.R.A. president, David Keene, once described the weapons as the “gun liberals love to hate.” It is in fact the rifle that illustrates why lax American gun laws make American lives cheap. The laws are an aberration.
马廷和圣贝纳迪诺的枪手均使用了AR-15突击步枪。美国步枪协会的前会长戴维·基恩(David Keene)曾说，“枪支管控问题上的自由派都爱骂”这种武器。事实上，这款步枪正说明了美国枪支管理法律松弛导致美国民众命如草芥的原因。因为相关法律有悖常理。
President Barack Obama described the shooting as “an act of terror and an act of hate.” He made clear his disapproval of gun laws. He called for solidarity. He said nothing about ISIS, or the way the Islamic State’s hold on territory in Syria and Iraq reinforces the charismatic potency of its ideological appeal, disseminated from that base through the internet.
贝拉克·奥巴马总统称此次枪击事件是“一起恐怖行为和仇恨行为”。他明确表示了对枪支管理法规的不满，呼吁民众团结一心。他未提及ISIS，或是伊斯兰国对叙利亚和伊拉克的领土控制，增强了其意识形态诉求的魅惑性吸引力。这种诉求通过互联网从该组织的大本营向外传播。
He also said this: “To actively do nothing is a decision as well.”
他还说了这样一句话：“主动什么都不做也是一种选择。”
Yes, to have actively done nothing in Syria over more than five years of war — so allowing part of the country to become an ISIS stronghold, contributing to a massive refugee crisis in Europe, acquiescing to slaughter and displacement on a devastating scale, undermining America’s word in the world, and granting open season for President Vladimir Putin to strut his stuff — amounts to the greatest foreign policy failure of the Obama administration.
是的，在叙利亚处于战争状态的五年多里主动什么也不做——因此使该国的部分地区成为ISIS的大本营、导致欧洲出现严重的难民危机、默许规模令人震惊的杀戮和民众背井离乡现象、削弱美国在世界上的话语权、允许俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)洋洋得意地卖弄他那一套——构成了奥巴马政府在外交政策上最大的败笔。
It has made the world far more dangerous. I hope for the best but fear the victory of the politics of anger in America and Europe.
它让世界变得远比以前危险。我希望能有最好的结果，但也害怕愤怒政治在美国和欧洲获得胜利。