WASHINGTON — As he has grown weary of Washington, Barack Obama has shed parts of his presidency, like drying petals falling off a rose.
华盛顿——当贝拉克·奥巴马对华盛顿渐生厌倦的时候，他把自己作为总统的部分职责抛至一边，就好像是干枯的花瓣从玫瑰上飘落。
He left the explaining and selling of his signature health care legislation to Bill Clinton. He outsourced Congress to Rahm Emanuel in the first term, and now doesn’t bother to source it at all. He left schmoozing, as well as a spiraling Iraq, to Joe Biden. Ben Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, comes across as more than a messagemeister. As the president floats in the empyrean, Rhodes seems to make foreign policy even as he’s spinning it.
他把自己标志性的医保立法甩给比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)去解释和推广。他在首个任期里把国会交由拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)去打交道，现在则是干脆懒得理会了。他把侃侃而谈的机会，以及形势急转直下的伊拉克留给乔·拜登(Joe Biden)。事实表明，副国家安全顾问本·罗兹(Ben Rhodes)可不仅仅是个出色的传声筒。当总统神游九霄的时候，看起来罗兹不光是在为外交政策编一套说辞，甚至就是在制定那些政策。
But the one thing it was impossible to imagine, back in the giddy days of the 2009 inauguration, as Americans basked in their open-mindedness and pluralism, was that the first African-American president would outsource race.
可是，在2009年奥巴马宣誓就职的那段令人目眩的日子里，美国人沉醉于自身的开放性与多元化的时候，有一件事绝对无法想象：历史上首位非洲裔美国总统竟然会将种族议题也撒手不管。
He saved his candidacy in 2008 after the “pastor disaster” with Jeremiah Wright by giving a daring speech asserting that racial reconciliation could never be achieved until racial anger, on both sides, was acknowledged. Half black, half white, a son of Kansas and Africa, he searchingly and sensitively explored America’s ebony-ivory divide.
2008年，灾难性的耶利米·赖特(Jeremiah Wright)牧师事件爆发后，他进行了一番大胆的演讲，清晰有力地表明，只有承认双方的种族怒火，才能达成种族和解。作为堪萨斯州与非洲结合的黑白混血，他犀利而敏感地探讨了美国的种族分化问题。此番演讲也挽救了他的总统竞选。
He dealt boldly and candidly with race in his memoirs, “Dreams From My Father.” “In many parts of the South,” he wrote, “my father could have been strung up from a tree for merely looking at my mother the wrong way; in the most sophisticated of Northern cities, the hostile stares, the whispers, might have driven a woman in my mother’s predicament into a back-alley abortion — or at the very least to a distant convent that could arrange for adoption. Their very image together would have been considered lurid and perverse.”
在回忆录《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)中，他大胆、客观地描绘了种族问题。“在南方的许多地方，”他写道，“我父亲或许会因为仅仅是看我母亲的眼神不对劲就被吊死在树上；在最有修养的一些北方城市，充满着敌意的目光和窃窃私语，可能会迫使一名有着我母亲那样境遇的女性去偷偷摸摸地堕胎——或者至少是躲到偏远的女修道院里，接受那里安排的收养。他们俩在一起的画面本身，就会被看做骇人听闻、有违常理。”
Now the professor in the Oval Office has spurned a crucial teachable moment.
今天，坐在椭圆形办公室里的教授先生却将一个具有教育意义的重要机会拒之门外。
He dispatched Eric Holder to Ferguson, and deputized Al Sharpton, detaching himself at the very moment when he could have helped move the country forward on an issue close to his heart. It’s another perverse reflection of his ambivalent relationship to power.
他派遣埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder)前往弗格森，让阿尔·沙普顿(Al Sharpton)充当代理人，却让自己置身事外，而这本是一个能够在他重视的种族议题上助推美国进步的绝佳机会。在他与权力的矛盾关系中，此举成为了又一个有违常理的例子。
He was willing to lasso the moon when his candidacy was on the line, so why not do the same at a pivotal moment for his presidency and race relations? Instead, he anoints a self-promoting TV pundit with an incendiary record as “the White House’s civil rights leader of choice,” as The Times put it, vaulting Sharpton into “the country’s most prominent voice on race relations.” It seems oddly retrogressive to make Sharpton the official go-between with Ferguson’s black community, given that his history has been one of fomenting racial divides, while Obama’s has been one of soothing them.
当他的总统竞选岌岌可危的时候，他愿意上天揽月，那么，在自己的总统任期及种族关系的关键时刻，为何不同样行事呢？结果，他选定了一名履历中曾有挑衅前科、热衷于自我推销的电视名人。正如时报所写的，他让沙普顿成为“白宫钦定的民权领袖”，将其抬升至“这个国家在种族关系方面最有分量的声音”。鉴于沙普顿曾挑起种族分裂而奥巴马弥合种族分歧的过往，派他去充当弗格森黑人社区的官方调停人，似乎是种莫名其妙的倒退。
The MSNBC host has gone from “The Bonfire of the Vanities” to White House Super Bowl parties. As a White House official told Politico’s Glenn Thrush, who wrote on the 59-year-old provocateur’s consultation with Valerie Jarrett on Ferguson: “There’s a trust factor with The Rev from the Oval Office on down. He gets it, and he’s got credibility in the community that nobody else has got.”
这位MSNBC电视台的主持人，已从《虚荣之火》(The Bonfire of the Vanities)中的角色蹿升为白宫超级碗派对的座上宾。《政治人》(Politico)的格伦·思拉什(Glenn Thrush)曾写到这名59岁的煽动家在弗格森一事上为瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)提供意见。一名白宫官员告诉思拉什：“自椭圆办公室一下，都有着对这位牧师的信任。他懂行，而且他在黑人群体里的声望无人能及。”
Sharpton has also been such a force with New York’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, in the furor over the chokehold death of a black Staten Island man that The New York Post declared The Rev the de facto police commissioner. The White House and City Hall do not seem concerned about his $4.7 million in outstanding debt and liens in federal and state tax records, reported by The Post. Once civil rights leaders drew their power from their unimpeachable moral authority. Now, being a civil rights leader can be just another career move, a good brand.
在纽约史泰登岛的一名黑人男性被勒致死引发的骚动中，沙普顿还对市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)发挥了重大影响。《纽约邮报》(The New York Post)宣称，沙普顿实际上扮演了警察局长的角色。白宫和纽约市政厅似乎并不担心邮报曝光的他欠下的470万美元（约合2900万元人民币）的债务，以及联邦和州级税收记录中的扣押项目。现如今，当个民权领袖可以只是一项平常的职业选择，一种好品牌。
Thrush noted that Sharpton — “once such a pariah that Clinton administration officials rushed through their ribbon-cuttings in Harlem for fear he’d show up and force them to, gasp, shake his hand” — has evolved from agitator to insider since his demagoguing days when he falsely accused a white New York prosecutor and others of gang-raping a black teenager, Tawana Brawley, and sponsored protests against a clothing store owned by a white man in Harlem, after a black subtenant who sold records was threatened with eviction. A deranged gunman burned down the store, leaving eight people dead.
思拉什注意到，沙普顿“曾让克林顿政府的官员唯恐避之不及，他们匆匆搞完哈林区的剪彩活动，怕的就是他会露面，还迫使他们与他握手，”如今他却从煽动分子摇身变为圈内人。当初，他搬弄是非，曾经错误地指责纽约的一名白人检察官等人轮奸黑人少女塔瓦纳·布劳利(Tawana Brawley)。在一名白人房东威胁要对一个卖唱片的黑人租户下逐客令后，他还赞助了一场抗议活动，针对的就是该白人名下在哈林区的一家服装店。一名疯狂的持枪歹徒最终放火烧毁了店铺，导致八人身亡。
Sharpton also whipped up anti-Semitic feelings during the Crown Heights riots in 1991, denouncing Jewish “diamond dealers” importing gems from South Africa after a Hasidic Jew ran a red light and killed a 7-year-old black child. Amid rioting, with some young black men shouting “Heil Hitler,” a 29-year-old Hasidic Jew from Australia was stabbed to death by a black teenager.
在1991年的皇冠高地骚乱中，沙普顿曾煽动反犹情绪：一名哈西德派犹太教徒闯红灯撞死了一个7岁的黑人小孩后，沙普顿谴责犹太“钻石商们”从南非进口宝石。骚乱期间，一些黑人男青年高喊“希特勒万岁”，而来自澳大利亚的一名29岁的哈西德派犹太教徒被一个黑人少年刺死。