WASHINGTON — Affectations can be dangerous, as Gertrude Stein said.
华盛顿——如格特鲁德·斯泰因(Gertrude Stein)所说，矫揉造作可能是危险的。
When Barack Obama first ran for president, he theatrically cast himself as the man alone on the stage. From his address in Berlin to his acceptance speech in Chicago, he eschewed ornaments and other politicians, conveying the sense that he was above the grubby political scene, unearthly and apart.
第一次竞选总统时，奥巴马夸张地将自己塑造成独自在台上的人。从他在柏林的讲话，到在芝加哥的获胜演讲，奥巴马避开了各种装饰物和其他政客，给人一种出政治舞台的淤泥而不染、超凡脱俗和与众不同的感觉。
He began “Dreams From My Father” with a description of his time living on the Upper East Side while he was a student at Columbia, savoring his lone-wolf existence. He was, he wrote, “prone to see other people as unnecessary distractions.” When neighbors began to “cross the border into familiarity, I would soon find reason to excuse myself. I had grown too comfortable in my solitude, the safest place I knew.”
在他的回忆录《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)的开篇，奥巴马描述了自己住在上东区那些时光，当时他在哥伦比亚大学求学，享受着独狼式的存在。他写道，自己“容易视其他人为无关紧要的分心之物”。当邻居们开始“变得熟稔，我很快就会找理由离开。我变得太乐于享受孤独，那是我所知道的最安全的地方”。
His only “kindred spirit” was a silent old man who lived alone in the apartment next door. Obama carried groceries for him but never asked his name. When the old man died, Obama briefly regretted not knowing his name, then swiftly regretted his regret.
唯一和他“志趣相投”的人是一个沉默的老头，独自住在隔壁公寓。奥巴马帮他捎带食品，却从来没有问过他的名字。老人去世后，奥巴马对于自己不知道他的名字感到过短暂的遗憾，然后很快又后悔自己会遗憾。
But what started as an affectation has turned into an affliction.
但是，最初显得矫揉造作的东西，现在已经变成了一种苦恼折磨。
A front-page article in The Times by Carl Hulse, Jeremy Peters and Michael Shear chronicled how the president’s disdain for politics has alienated many of his most stalwart Democratic supporters on Capitol Hill.
《纽约时报》发表了一篇卡尔·赫尔斯(Carl Hulse)、杰里米·彼得斯(Jeremy Peters)和迈克尔·谢尔(Michael Shear)撰写的头版文章，文中记载了这位总统对政治的蔑视如何疏远了国会山上很多十分坚定的民主党支持者。
His bored-bird-in-a-gilded-cage attitude, the article said, “has left him with few loyalists to effectively manage the issues erupting abroad and at home and could imperil his efforts to leave a legacy in his final stretch in office.”
文章称，奥巴马那种“像镀金鸟笼中的鸟儿一样感到无聊”态度，“已经使得他身边没留下几个忠实支持者，来行之有效地处理国内外爆发的问题，这样的状况可能会危及他的努力：他希望利用在任的最后这段时间，留下一些政治遗产”。
Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, an early Obama backer, noted that “for him, eating his spinach is schmoozing with elected officials.”
密苏里州参议员克莱尔·麦卡斯基尔(Claire McCaskill)是奥巴马的一位早期支持者，他说，“对于奥巴马来说，埋头吃自己的菠菜就算是在和民选官员闲聊了。”
First the president couldn’t work with Republicans because they were too obdurate. Then he tried to chase down reporters with subpoenas. Now he finds members of his own party an unnecessary distraction.
一开始，奥巴马无法与共和党人合作，因为他们太顽固了。然后，他又试图用传票来追缴记者。现在，他觉得自己党派的成员也是无关紧要的分心之物了。
His circle keeps getting more inner. He golfs with aides and jocks, and he spent his one evening back in Washington from Martha’s Vineyard at a nearly five-hour dinner at the home of a nutritional adviser and former White House assistant chef, Sam Kass.
他的圈子日益向内收缩。他与助手和体育迷打高尔夫球，从玛莎葡萄园岛回到华盛顿度过的那一个晚上，他在营养顾问、前白宫助理厨师萨姆·卡斯(Sam Kass)的家中吃了近五个小时的晚餐。
The president who was elected because he was a hot commodity is now a wet blanket.
奥巴马当初当选总统，是因为他人气爆棚，现在他却表现得让人扫兴。
The extraordinary candidate turns out to be the most ordinary of men, frittering away precious time on the links. Unlike L.B.J., who devoured problems as though he were being chased by demons, Obama’s main galvanizing impulse was to get himself elected.
卓尔不群的候选人，原来却是个最最普通的人，把宝贵的时间消磨在俗事上。与热衷于处理问题的L.B.J（Lyndon B. Johnson，林登·贝恩斯·约翰逊，美国第36任总统——编注）不同，奥巴马最大的急切冲动就是让自己当选总统。
Almost everything else — from an all-out push on gun control after the Newtown massacre to going to see firsthand the Hispanic children thronging at the border to using his special status to defuse racial tensions in Ferguson — just seems like too much trouble.
其他几乎所有事情——从在纽敦枪杀案后全力推动枪支管制法规，亲自到边境看拥塞在那里的西语裔儿童，到使用自己的特殊身份来化解弗格森紧张的种族关系——好像对他来说就太麻烦了。
The 2004 speech that vaulted Obama into the White House soon after he breezed into town turned out to be wrong. He misdescribed the country he wanted to lead. There is a liberal America and a conservative America. And the red-blue divide has only gotten worse in the last six years.
2004年，奥巴马在崭露头角之后不久发表了一场演讲，为他入主白宫起到了重大作用，但那场演讲的内容竟然是错的：他错误地描述了他想领导的国家。有一个自由主义的美国，还有一个保守主义的美国。过去的六年里，红蓝之间的隔阂反而加剧了。
The man whose singular qualification was as a uniter turns out to be singularly unequipped to operate in a polarized environment.
在融合隔阂方面，他有异于常人的条件，结果他却比常人更加没有做好在极化环境中行动的准备。
His boosters argue that we spurned his gift of healing, so healing is the one thing that must not be expected of him. We ingrates won’t let him be the redeemer he could have been.
他的支持者认为，我们高傲地拒绝了他的治愈力天分，所以我们不能在治愈这件事上对他抱有期待。他本来可以成为救世主，是我们这些忘恩负义者阻拦了他。
As Ezra Klein wrote in Vox: “If Obama’s speeches aren’t as dramatic as they used to be, this is why: the White House believes a presidential speech on a politically charged topic is as likely to make things worse as to make things better.”
正如以斯拉·克莱因(Ezra Klein)在Vox网站上所写：“如果说奥巴马的讲话并不像以前那么戏剧性了，那么其原因就在于：白宫认为，总统如果在充满政治意味的话题上发表讲话，事情恶化的可能性不亚于好转的可能性。”
He concluded: “There probably won’t be another Race Speech because the White House doesn’t believe there can be another Race Speech. For Obama, the cost of becoming president was sacrificing the unique gift that made him president.”
他总结说：“可能不会再有关于种族问题的讲话了，因为白宫认为不应该再有这种演讲。对于奥巴马来说，成为总统的代价就是牺牲一种独特的天分，而正是这天分让他成为了总统。”
So The One who got elected as the most exciting politician in American history is The One from whom we must never again expect excitement?
那么，作为美国历史上最激动人心的政治家而当选总统的人，我们不能再指望他做出激动人心的事情了吗？
Do White House officials fear that Fox News could somehow get worse to them?
白宫官员难道担心，福克斯新闻(Fox News)对他们态度还能比现在更糟吗？
Sure, the president has enemies. Sure, there are racists out there. Sure, he’s going to get criticized for politicizing something. But as F.D.R. said of his moneyed foes, “I welcome their hatred.”
当然，总统有敌人。当然，外面有种族主义者。当然，他会因为把某些东西政治化而遭到批评。但是，正如F.D.R.（Franklin D. Roosevelt，富兰克林·德拉诺·罗斯福，美国第32任总统——编注）谈到他那些有钱的对手们时说，“我欢迎他们的仇恨。”
Why should the president neutralize himself? Why doesn’t he do something bold and thrilling? Get his hands dirty? Stop going to Beverly Hills to raise money and go to St. Louis to raise consciousness? Talk to someone besides Valerie Jarrett?
为什么总统要压制自己？为什么他不做些大胆的、惊险刺激的事情？不去亲身参与？不取消到比佛利山庄筹集资金的行程，而是去圣路易斯提高人们的意识？不去找瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)以外的其他人谈谈呢？