President Barack Obama on Tuesday called for a “course correction” in the march to an integrated world, saying the gains made in recent decades were threatened by “uncertainty and unease and strife.”
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统周二呼吁在向全球一体化迈进的过程中进行“路线调整”，他说最近几十年取得的成就受到了“不确定性、不安以及冲突”的威胁。
Obama, making his valedictory address before the U.N. General Assembly in New York, painted a picture of nations struggling with economic inequality, sectarian conflict and rising nationalism.
在纽约发表自己的最后一次联合国大会演讲时，奥巴马勾勒了世界各国竭力与经济不平等、教派冲突和日益高涨的民族主义对抗的图景。
“We cannot dismiss these visions,” he said. “They are powerful. They reflect dissatisfaction among too many of our citizens.”
“我们不能对这些景象视而不见，”他说。“它们非常突出。它们反映出有太多人民心怀不满。”
The president insisted that the remedy for this global uneasiness was not to retreat to old divides.
总统坚称，驱除这种全球性不安的办法不是退回到旧有的分裂中去。
“The answer cannot be a simple rejection of global integration,” Obama said. “We should work together to make sure the benefits of global integration are broadly shared.”
“答案不是简单地拒绝全球一体化，”奥马巴说，“我们应该携手并进，确保全球一体化的利益在更大范围内得到分享。”
He called for a reaffirmation of commitments of collaboration on issues like climate change and nuclear nonproliferation — issues on which, he said, the United States has often taken the lead.
他呼吁重申关于气候变化、核不扩散等议题的合作承诺，他说美国经常在这些议题上起带头作用。
In a sweeping tour of the world, the president confronted the sectarian chaos in the Middle East, and Russia’s aggression toward its neighbors. He did not articulate any new policies, and in fact reaffirmed his view that some problems resist outside intervention.
在一次遍历全球的巡回访问中，总统面对了中东教派争端的乱象，以及俄罗斯对邻国的入侵。他没有提及任何新政策，事实上确认了他的看法，即某些问题是不愿受外界干预的。
On a morning when his secretary of state, John Kerry, was struggling to salvage a fragile agreement with Russia for a cease-fire in Syria, Obama made clear that there were no better options to end the five-year civil war. “In a place like Syria, where there’s no military victory to be had,” he said, “we’re going to have to pursue the hard work of diplomacy.”
在演讲进行的同时，他的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)正竭力保全与俄罗斯的一项脆弱的叙利亚停火协议，奥巴马明确表示，没有终结叙利亚五年内战的更好办法。“在叙利亚这样一个地方，不会有军事上的胜利，”他说，“我们必须继续推进艰苦的外交工作。”
The president did not spare the United States from his catalog of worrisome trends, and he seemed to take aim at the campaign of the Republican nominee seeking to succeed him, Donald Trump.
总统并没有把美国从他描述的一系列令人担忧的趋势中分离出来，他似乎还把矛头指向了正寻求接替他的共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。
Obama said the United States and Europe were dealing with a rise of nativism, spurred by fears of mass migration.
奥巴马说，美国和欧洲正在应对纳粹主义的抬头——对大规模移民的担忧助推了这一趋势。
“You see people wrestling with concerns about immigration and changing demographics and suggest that people who look different are somehow corrupting the character of our countries,” he said.
“你看到人们正绞尽脑汁地应对移民和人口结构变化引发的担忧，有的人认为，那些相貌与他们不同的人会以某种方式破坏国家的品质，”他说。
Twice, Obama referred to the futility of nations’ building walls. “A nation ringed by walls would only imprison itself,” he said.
奥巴马两次提到，某些国家建造隔离墙之举是徒劳的。“一个被围墙环绕的国家，只会让自己受到禁锢，”他说。