WASHINGTON — The United States has concluded that Russia violated a landmark arms control treaty by testing a prohibited ground-launched cruise missile, according to senior American officials, a finding that was conveyed by President Obama to Russian President Vladimir V. Putin in a letter on Monday.
华盛顿——美国高级官员表示，奥巴马总统在周一写给俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的信中称，美国认定，俄罗斯测试了一种遭禁的陆基巡航导弹，违反了一项重要的军备控制条约。
It is the most serious allegation of an arms control treaty violation that the Obama administration has leveled against Russia and adds another dispute to a relationship already burdened by tensions over the Kremlin’s support for separatists in Ukraine and its decision to grant asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor.
这是奥巴马政府对俄罗斯发出的违背军控条约的最严重的指控。因为克里姆林宫支持乌克兰分裂分子，又决定为国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)提供庇护，两国关系本已颇为紧张。如此一来，两国又会出现新的矛盾。
At the heart of the issue is the 1987 treaty that bans medium-range missiles, which are defined as ground-launched ballistic or cruise missiles capable of flying 300 to 3,400 miles. That accord, which was signed by President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who was then the Soviet leader, helped seal the end of the Cold War and has been regarded as a cornerstone of American and Russian arms control efforts. Obama administration officials concluded by the end of 2011 that the cruise missile test was a compliance concern, officials have said. Rose Gottemoeller, the State Department’s senior arms control official, first raised the violation concern with Russian officials in May 2013.
问题的核心是1987年签订的一项条约。该条约禁止装备中程导弹，也就是飞行距离在500到5500公里的陆基弹道导弹或巡航导弹。这项条约由当时的美国总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)和苏联领导人米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)签署。它推动了冷战的结束，一直被视作美国和俄罗斯军备控制的基石。奥巴马政府的官员称，官方于2011年末认定，俄罗斯的巡航导弹试验违反了前述条约。2013年5月，美国国务院高级军控官员罗丝·戈特莫勒(Rose Gottemoeller)首次向俄罗斯官员提出了对违规的关切。
In January, The New York Times reported that American officials had informed the NATO allies that Russia had tested a ground-launched cruise missile, raising serious concerns about Russia’s compliance with the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, or I.N.F. treaty, as it is commonly called. The State Department said at the time that the issue was under review and that the Obama administration was not yet ready to formally declare it a treaty violation.
今年1月，《纽约时报》报道，美国官员已经告诉北约盟友，俄罗斯对一种陆基巡航导弹进行了测试。外界由此严重关切俄罗斯是否遵守《中程核力量条约》(Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty)，即通常所说的《中导条约》。国务院当时表示，正在调查此事，奥巴马政府尚未打算正式宣布这是违反条约的行为。
In recent months, however, the issue has been taken up by top-level officials, including a meeting this month of the Principals’ Committee, a cabinet-level body that includes Mr. Obama’s national security adviser, the defense secretary, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the secretary of state and the director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Senior officials said the president’s most senior advisers unanimously agreed that the test was a serious violation, and the allegation will be made public soon in the State Department’s annual report on international compliance with arms control agreements.
然而最近数月，高层官员开始关注此事，包括部门负责人委员会(Principals Committee)本月召开的一次会议。部门负责人委员会是一个内阁级别的机构，由总统国家安全顾问、国防部长、参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席、国务卿以及中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)局长等人组成。高级官员表示，这些最高级别的总统顾问一致认定，此次试验属严重违规，而且国务院很快将在评估国际社会遵守军控协议情况的年度报告中公布相关指控。
“The United States has determined that the Russian Federation is in violation of its obligations under the I.N.F. treaty not to possess, produce or flight test a ground launched cruise missile (GLCM) with a range capability of 500 kilometers to 5,500 kilometers or to possess or produce launchers of such missiles,” that report will say.
报告中将写道，“美国已经确定俄罗斯联邦违反了《中导条约》中规定的义务。根据该条约，双方不得持有、制造或飞行测试射程在500至5500公里的陆基巡航导弹（ground launched cruise missile，简称GLCM），也不得持有或制造此类导弹的发射器。”
In his letter to Mr. Putin, delivered by the American Embassy, Mr. Obama underscored his interest in a high-level dialogue with Moscow with the aim of preserving the 1987 treaty and discussing steps the Kremlin might take to come back into compliance. Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a similar message in a Sunday phone call to Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister.
在由美国大使馆递交给普京的信中，奥巴马强调，自己有意与莫斯科展开高层对话，以维护1987年的条约，并讨论克里姆林宫可以采取哪些举措来重新遵守条约。周日，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在电话中向俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)传达了相似讯息。
NATO’s top commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, has said that the violation requires a response if it cannot be resolved.
北约最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫上将(Philip M. Breedlove)表示，如果违规行为得不到解决，则有必要做出回应。
“A weapon capability that violates the I.N.F., that is introduced into the greater European land mass is absolutely a tool that will have to be dealt with,” he said in an interview in April. “It can’t go unanswered.” Mr. Obama has determined that the United States will not retaliate against the Russians by violating the treaty and deploying its own prohibited medium-range system, officials said. So the responses might include deploying sea-launched and air-launched cruise missiles, which would be an allowable under the accord.
“这种违背《中导条约》、出现在欧洲大陆上的武器能力绝对是我们必须应对的东西，”布里德洛夫4月接受采访时说。“置之不理是不行的。”美国官员表示，奥巴马已经决定，美国不会以违反条约并自行部署违禁中程系统的方式来报复俄罗斯。因此，美国的回应可能包括部署海基和空基巡航导弹。根据该条约，海基和空基巡航导弹是允许的。
The Russians have also raised their own allegations, a move that American officials believe it is intended to muddy the issue and perhaps give them leverage in any negotiations over compliance. One month after Ms. Gottemoeller raised the American concerns about the testing of the ground launched cruise missile, the Russians responded by pointing to the United States plans to base the Aegis missile system in Romania.
俄罗斯也提出了自己的指控。美国官员认为，此举是为了混淆视听，或许还是为了在围绕遵守条约而举行的任何谈判中给他们提供筹码。在戈特莫勒提出美国对陆基巡航导弹试验的关切一个月后，俄罗斯做出了反应，直指美国在罗马尼亚部署“宙斯盾”(Aegis)导弹系统的计划。
The Aegis system, which is commonly used on warships, would be used to protect American and NATO forces from missile attacks. But the Russians have alleged that it could be used to fire prohibited cruise missiles.
常用于战舰上的“宙斯盾”系统，将被用来保护美国和北约的军队免受导弹攻击。但俄罗斯称，该系统可以被用来发射违禁巡航导弹。
When Mr. Kerry spoke with Mr. Lavrov on Sunday, the Russian foreign minister cited Russia’s concerns over “decoys.” That may have been a reference to Russian charges that the targets that the United States uses in antimissile tests are an I.N.F. treaty violation. American officials regard that allegation, about the issue of the Aegis system and complaints about the use of targets, to be spurious.
当克里周日与俄罗斯外长拉夫罗夫通话时，后者提及俄罗斯对“假想目标”的关切。这可能是指俄罗斯的指控，即美国在反导试验中采用的目标物违反了《中导条约》。美国官员认为，关于“宙斯盾”系统问题的指责，以及对目标使用的抱怨均站不住脚。