WASHINGTON — President Obama will nominate Janet L. Yellen as chairwoman of the Federal Reserve on Wednesday, White House officials said Tuesday night, ending an unusually prolonged and public search to fill one of the most important economic policy-making jobs in the world.
华盛顿——白宫官员于本周二晚间表示，奥巴马总统将在本周三提名珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)担任美联储(Federal Reserve)主席，此举将终结一场旷日持久的公开选才行动，胜出者将接手世界上影响力数一数二的经济政策制定工作。
 Her four-year appointment requires confirmation by the Democratic-controlled Senate, where Republicans often throw up hurdles. But Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democratic leader, said: “I think she has a very good chance of being confirmed. I think she will have bipartisan support.”
对耶伦的四年期任命需要得到由民主党控制的参议院的批准，而参议院共和党人往往会设置障碍。不过，民主党的一位领导者、纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说：“我认为，她获得批准的机会极大。我想她会得到两党的支持。”
Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, a Republican who sits on the Banking Committee that would first consider the nomination, said: “I voted against Vice Chairman Yellen’s original nomination to the Fed in 2010 because of her dovish views on monetary policy. We will closely examine her record since that time, but I am not aware of anything that demonstrates her views have changed.”
田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)是首先将对提名予以考量的参议院银行事务委员会(Banking Committee)成员，他说：“2010年，由于耶伦在货币政策上的温和观点，在推举耶伦为美联储副主席的初次提名中，我投了反对票。我们会严密审查她在那之后的表现，不过，我还没有察觉到任何显示她的观点已发生改变的迹象。”
Mr. Obama’s first choice for the job — Lawrence H. Summers, a former adviser to the president — dropped out of the running on Sept. 15 in the face of opposition from Democratic senators.
就该职位而言，奥巴马的第一人选是曾担任自己顾问的劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)，面对民主党参议员的反对，后者于9月15日退出了竞争。
Ms. Yellen, 67, who has been the Fed’s vice chairwoman since 2010, when Mr. Obama nominated her to the post, would be the first woman to run the central bank. A native of Brooklyn, she was previously president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, a White House adviser, a Fed governor during the Clinton administration and a longtime professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
自2010年奥巴马提名耶伦接手美联储副主席一职以来，现年67岁的她一直担任此职，她可能会成为执掌美国中央银行的首位女性。她是布鲁克林人，曾任旧金山联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco)行长、白宫顾问，在克林顿政府期间曾任美联储委员，还长期在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)担任教授职务。
The most important decisions awaiting Ms. Yellen involve how quickly to wind down the expansionary monetary policy engineered by the current chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Ms. Yellen worked closely with Mr. Bernanke, whose term ends on Jan. 31, in shaping and building support for that approach in an effort to stimulate the economy and bring down unemployment.
有待耶伦做出的一系列最重要决定包括用何种速度取消美联储现任主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)推行的扩张性货币政策。在拟定该政策并为其赢得支持的过程中，耶伦曾和伯南克密切合作，该政策的目的是刺激经济、降低失业人数。伯南克的任期将在2014年1月31日结束。
If anything, Ms. Yellen has wanted the Fed to take even more aggressive measures to lift growth, believing the risks of inflation are modest. But her views and Mr. Bernanke’s appear close enough that markets have considered her potential ascension a sign of continuity at the Fed.
如果说两人在观点上有任何不同的话，那就是耶伦曾希望美联储采取更为激进的措施来加快增长，她相信通胀的风险并不大。不过，她的观点和伯南克的观点看上去极其接近，以至于市场判断，她可能升任主席一职，是美联储将延续现行政策的一个信号。
Since 2009, Mr. Obama had anticipated that he might eventually nominate Mr. Summers, who for the first two years of his presidency was chief White House economic adviser as director of the National Economic Council. Mr. Obama came to admire Mr. Summers, a former Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, for the advice he provided at the depths of the recession and financial crisis. In contrast, he does not know Ms. Yellen well.
自2009年以来，奥巴马就设想，他可能最终会提名萨默斯。在奥巴马担任总统的最初两年里，萨默斯作为国家经济委员会(National Economic Council)主任，曾是白宫的首席经济顾问。在美国经济深陷衰退和金融危机的时刻，曾在克林顿(Clinton)政府时期担任财政部长的萨默斯，凭借他的见解逐步赢得了奥巴马的欣赏。与之形成对比的是，奥巴马不太了解耶伦。
Mr. Obama’s loyalty to Mr. Summers pitted him this summer against many progressives in his party’s base, as well as liberal Democratic senators, who wanted him to make history by nominating Ms. Yellen.
奥巴马对萨默斯情有独钟的态度，让他在这个夏天遭到民主党阵营中许多进步派成员的反对，也让希望他以提名耶伦来创造历史的自由派民主党参议员和他翻了脸。
Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, whose letter endorsing Ms. Yellen and signed by a third of Democratic senators helped turn the tide against Mr. Summers, said in a statement late Tuesday, “Today is a historic moment for the Federal Reserve, for women everywhere, and for all of us who care about job creation. Governor Yellen will work to prevent future bailouts, boost our housing markets, and give the Fed’s mandate to maximize employment the attention it deserves.”
俄亥俄州参议员谢罗德·布朗(Sherrod Brown)在周二晚间发表的声明中说：“对美联储、对全球各地的女性、以及所有重视创造就业机会的人来说，今天是一个历史性时刻。耶伦将设法防止再次进行财政救援，振兴我们的房地产市场，并强调美联储对于最大化就业的责任。”布朗曾经写了一封信力挺耶伦，并获得了三分之一民主党参议员的签名，这封信让萨默斯陷入被动，扭转了局面。
Administration officials and allies said the timing of the Yellen announcement had nothing to do with the fiscal impasse between the White House and the Republican-controlled House. Instead, they said, it was a coincidence caused by Mr. Obama’s delay in deciding finally on Ms. Yellen, and getting her vetted, after Mr. Summers withdrew from contention.
美国政府官员和耶伦的盟友说，宣布提名耶伦的时机，与白宫和共和党控制的众议院之间的财政僵局毫无关联。他们表示，这是奥巴马久拖不决导致的一次巧合，直到萨默斯退出竞争，他才最终决定提名耶伦，让她接受审核。
Mr. Bernanke, the Fed’s leader since 2006, announced last month that the central bank would postpone any retreat from its stimulus campaign for at least another month and possibly until next year, because of concerns about the economy. The move surprised economists and investors on Wall Street.
自2006年以来一直担任美联储主席的伯南克于上个月宣布，出于对经济情况的担忧，央行将把任何撤销财政刺激举措的行动再推迟至少一个月，也许要推迟到明年。这一举动出乎经济学家和华尔街投资者的意料。
Mr. Bernanke — who has underestimated the economy’s weakness at several junctures during the last few years — said that although conditions were improving, the Fed still feared a turn for the worse. He has expressed concern that Congress is damaging the economy through budget brinkmanship and could cause more damage in the weeks to come.
在过去几年里，伯南克曾数次低估了美国经济的脆弱程度。他表示，虽然有所改善，美联储仍旧担心情况会再度恶化。他认为国会正在通过预算边缘政策破坏经济，而且在未来数周内，可能造成更大的破坏，对此他表示担心。
Ms. Yellen, described by one former colleague as “a small lady with a large I.Q.,” forged an academic career at Berkeley as a member of the economics counterculture that attacked the dogma of efficient markets. She has long argued that markets benefit from regulation to prevent abuses and limit disruptions of economic growth.
一位前同事形容耶伦是“有大智慧的小女子”。在加州大学伯克利分校，她在学术领域颇有建树，是攻击有效市场教条的经济学反主流派中的一员。她长期以来都认为，监管可以避免舞弊并限制对经济增长的干扰，进而让市场受益。
The Fed’s two main tasks are helping to regulate the financial system and altering interest rates in response to economic growth and inflation. Regulating the financial system has become a much more important part of the Fed’s responsibilities in the wake of the financial crisis.
美联储有两项主要任务，分别是帮助监管金融体系，以及根据经济增长和通货膨胀水平来调整利率。而金融危机过后，对金融体系的监管已成为了美联储更为重要的职责。
Many Democrats believe Ms. Yellen is likely to view Wall Street more skeptically than Mr. Summers, even though her views are closer to the centrist stance of the administration than to the positions of liberal Democrats on several regulatory issues. She is not, for example, a supporter of the push to break up large banks.
许多民主党人相信，比起萨默斯，耶伦可能更多的对华尔街心存疑虑，虽然在几个监管事项上，她的观点更接近政府的中间派立场，而不是自由派民主党人的立场。例如，她并不支持拆分大银行的做法。
In the Senate, she is not likely to face much opposition from Democrats. Few Senate Republicans had taken a stance on her potential selection, although Republicans have frequently expressed concern that the Fed’s policies may destabilize financial markets and eventually accelerate inflation.
在参议院，她不太可能遭遇到太多民主党成员的反对。参议院还没有多少共和党人对她可能当选一事发表过任何意见，虽然他们常常表示，担心美联储的政策可能会使金融市场产生混乱，最终加速通货膨胀。
A decade ago, Ms. Yellen was one of the first public officials to describe rising housing prices as a bubble that might pop, with damaging consequences for the broader economy. Still, as president of the San Francisco Fed, she did not translate her concerns into actions that might have prevented some of the worst effects of the bubble.
十年前，耶伦就将飙升的房价形容为泡沫，有可能会破裂，结果会对整个经济产生破坏，她是最先提出这一说法的政府官员之一。但是，在担任旧金山联邦储备银行行长期间，耶伦并没有将她的忧虑化为行动，虽然这么做有可能会避免泡沫所带来的一些最严重影响。
But in the aftermath of the resulting recession, she accurately predicted that the recovery would be painfully slow and that there was little reason to worry about inflation, a view that led her to press for the Fed to expand its efforts to revive the economy. No Federal Reserve chairman has been as deeply steeped in both the theory and practice of central banking as she is.
但是在由此带来的经济衰退过后，她准确地预测了复苏将极其缓慢，也无需担心通货膨胀的出现，正是这一观点促使她向美联储施压，加大振兴经济举措的力度。还没有哪一位美联储主席像她那样，对央行的操作从理论到实践都有如此深入的了解。
Mr. Bernanke also brought a distinguished academic history of having studied the Fed, but he spent only a few years as a Fed governor before becoming chairman. Ms. Yellen has spent more than half of the last 20 years as a top Fed official.
伯南克也曾从学术理论上对美联储进行研究，成果受人瞩目，但是他在成为美联储主席之前也仅仅担任了几年的美联储委员。而耶伦在过去二十年的大部分时间里都是美联储的高层官员。
Her supporters have praised her as self-effacing and keenly intelligent. “She makes an argument on the merits and she sticks with it,” said Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton and former Fed vice chairman, who argued for her nomination. “And she’s good at articulating an argument in a way that doesn’t leave people on the other side hopping mad at her.”
她的支持者赞美她的谦逊和过人的智慧。普林斯顿大学(Princeton)经济学教授、前美联储副主席艾伦·S·布兰德(Alan S. Blinder)支持对她的提名，“她总是会根据实际情况提出观点，并能始终坚持。她也善于阐明观点，不会令持相反观点的人怒不可遏。”
Ms. Yellen, slight and white-haired, has a personal style that more closely resembles Mr. Bernanke’s soft-spoken manner than that of some previous Fed chairmen, like Paul Volcker. The force of her arguments can catch people by surprise.
耶伦个子不高、满头银发，她的个人风格更接近于伯南克的柔声细语，而不同于保罗·沃尔克(Paul Volcker)等数位前任美联储主席。她表达观点时的说服力常常会让人惊讶。
She attended Fort Hamilton High School in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and Brown University, and has said that she became interested in economics as a way of thinking logically about how to help people. As a graduate student at Yale, she studied under the Nobel laureate James Tobin, a leading proponent of the view that governments could mitigate recessions.
她曾就读于布鲁克林贝里奇的汉密尔顿堡高中(Fort Hamilton High School)以及布朗大学(Brown University)。她曾说，她开始对经济学感兴趣是因为这种逻辑思考的方式可以教她如何帮助他人。作为耶鲁大学(Yale)的研究生，她师从诺贝尔奖得主詹姆斯·托宾(James Tobin)，后者倡导，政府能够缓解经济衰退的副作用，也是这一观点的领军人物。
She built an academic career at Berkeley together with her husband, the economist George A. Akerlof, whom she met in a Fed cafeteria in the late 1970s when they were staff economists. Much of their work together highlighted flaws in the economic theory that markets operate efficiently, a theory that basically treats government policy as inherently costly. 
她与她的丈夫经济学家乔治·A·阿克洛夫(George A. Akerlof)携手在伯克利开拓了自己的学术事业。他们上世纪80年代在美联储的餐厅里相遇。他们两人的共同工作突显了市场有效运作这一经济理论的缺陷，该理论基本上认为，政府政策从本质上来说就是代价高昂的。