Leading Republicans appear to be nerving themselves up for another round of attempted fiscal blackmail. With the end of the fiscal year looming, they aren’t offering the kinds of compromises that might produce a deal and avoid a government shutdown; instead, they’re drafting extremist legislation — bills that would, for example, cut clean-water grants by 83 percent — that has no chance of becoming law. Furthermore, they’re threatening, once again, to block any rise in the debt ceiling, a move that would damage the U.S. economy and possibly provoke a world financial crisis.
共和党领导人似乎正在鼓足勇气，企图进行另一轮财政敲诈。在本财年行将结束之时，他们非但没有做出能够促成协议达成和防止政府关门的妥协，反而在起草一些不可能成为法律的极端法规。例如，他们提议把给净水工程的拨款减少83%。此外，他们还再次威胁要阻止任何提高债务上限的做法，这种举措将损害美国经济，而且还可能会引起世界金融危机。
Yet even as Republican politicians seem ready to go on the offensive, there’s a palpable sense of anxiety, even despair, among conservative pundits and analysts. Better-informed people on the right seem, finally, to be facing up to a horrible truth: Health care reform, President Obama’s signature policy achievement, is probably going to work.
然而，虽然共和党政客似乎已经做好了发动进攻的准备，但是保守派专家和分析人士中间明显存在一种焦虑甚至绝望的情绪。消息灵通的右翼似乎最终要面对一个可怕的现实，奥巴马总统标志性的政策成就——医疗改革——或许能够成功。
And the good news about Obamacare is, I’d argue, what’s driving the Republican Party’s intensified extremism. Successful health reform wouldn’t just be a victory for a president conservatives loathe, it would be an object demonstration of the falseness of right-wing ideology. So Republicans are being driven into a last, desperate effort to head this thing off at the pass.
我想说的是，驱使共和党愈加极端的正是奥巴马医改(Obamacare)的好消息。成功的医疗改革不仅意味着保守派所厌恶的总统取得了胜利，而且还具体证明了右翼意识形态的虚伪性。所以，共和党人不得不绝望地进行最后尝试，希望能在这件事上先发制人。
Some background: Although you’d never know it from all the fulminations, with prominent Republicans routinely comparing Obamacare to slavery, the Affordable Care Act is based on three simple ideas. First, all Americans should have access to affordable insurance, even if they have pre-existing medical problems. Second, people should be induced or required to buy insurance even if they’re currently healthy, so that the risk pool remains reasonably favorable. Third, to prevent the insurance “mandate” from being too onerous, there should be subsidies to hold premiums down as a share of income.
这里有一些背景讯息：知名的共和党人经常把奥巴马医改比作奴隶制，虽然你绝不可能从各种严词谴责中了解到这点，但《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)是建立在三条简单的理念之上。首先，所有美国人都应该获得支付能力范围内的保险，即便他们之前存在一些健康问题。其次，应该劝服或要求人们够买保险，即使他们目前仍然健康，如此一来，整个风险池就会比较有利。第三，为了防止“强制”保险给人们带来过于沉重的负担，政府应该提供补贴来压低保险费在收入中所占的比例。
Is such a system workable? For a while, Republicans convinced themselves that it was doomed to failure, and that they could profit politically from the inevitable “train wreck.” But a system along exactly these lines has been operating in Massachusetts since 2006, where it was introduced by a Republican governor. What was his name? Mitt Somethingorother? And no trains have been wrecked so far.
这种体系具有可行性吗？共和党人曾经说服自己，它绝对会以失败告终，而且这种不可避免的“火车失事”还会给他们带来政治利益。但是自2006年以来，马萨诸塞州一直在推行遵循同样原则的体系，而其发起者则是一位共和党州长。他叫什么？米特·什么来着(Mitt Somethingorother)？直到现在，也没发生什么“火车失事”。
The question is whether the Massachusetts success story can be replicated in other states, especially big states like California and New York with large numbers of uninsured residents. The answer to this question depends, in the first place, on whether insurance companies are willing to offer coverage at reasonable rates. And the answer, so far, is a clear “yes.” In California, insurers came in with bids running significantly below expectations; in New York, it appears that premiums will be cut roughly in half.
问题是，其他各州能否复制马萨诸塞州的成功案例，尤其是像加利福尼亚州和纽约州这种拥有大量未参保居民的大州。这个问题的答案首先取决于，保险公司是否愿意以合理费率提供医疗保障。目前，这个问题有个清晰的答案：“愿意”。在加州，保险公司提出的价格比人们预期的低很多；在纽约州，保险费似乎将减少大约一半。
So is this a case of something for nothing, in which nobody loses? No. In states like California, which have allowed discrimination based on health status, a small number of young, healthy, affluent residents will see their premiums go up. In New York, people who don’t think they need insurance and are too rich to receive subsidies — probably an even smaller group — will feel put upon by being obliged to buy policies. Mainly, though, those insurance subsidies will cost money, and that money will, to an important extent, be raised through higher taxes on the 1 percent: tax increases that have, by the way, already taken effect.
所以这是不是一个轻易得来的好处，不会有任何人蒙受损失？答案是否定的。加州等州都允许承保人区别对待健康状况不同的人，因此，少数年轻、健康而富有的居民所需缴纳的保费将会增加。在纽约州，那些不认为自己需要保险而且太富有而无法享受补贴的人——这或许是个更小的群体——将会因为必须服从政策而觉得自己的利益受到了侵犯。但是总体来看，尽管这些保险补贴需要花钱，但是这笔钱中的很大一部分将通过增加对占人口总数1%的人征税来筹集：顺便说一下，该增税政策已经生效。
Over all, then, health reform will help millions of Americans who were previously either too sick or too poor to get the coverage they needed, and also offer a great deal of reassurance to millions more who currently have insurance but fear losing it; it will provide these benefits at the expense of a much smaller number of other Americans, mostly the very well off. It is, if you like, a plan to comfort the afflicted while (slightly) afflicting the comfortable.
所以，总体来看，医疗改革将帮助数百万美国人得到自己所需要的医疗保险，这是他们过去因为病情太重或者过于贫穷而无法享受到的。同时，它还可以在很大程度上为那些目前享有保险，但又害怕会失去保险的几百万人提供安慰；而提供这些好处，只需要极少数美国人付出代价，而且他们大多是非常富裕的人。如果你同意的话，我们可以说，这个计划能为受苦者提供慰藉，而只会给富足者带来（少许）痛苦。
And the prospect that such a plan might succeed is anathema to a party whose whole philosophy is built around doing just the opposite, of taking from the “takers” and giving to the “job creators,” known to the rest of us as the “rich.” Hence the brinkmanship.
共和党的整个理论都建立在采取相反的做法之上，也就是把从“索取者”那里得到的财富交给“就业机会创造者”，也就是我们其他人所说的“富人”。上述计划将获得成功的可能性对于这样一个政党来说是个诅咒。所以，他们便拿出了前面所说的讹诈的边缘政策。
So will Republicans actually take us to the brink? If they do, it will be crucial to understand why they would do such a thing, when their own leaders have admitted that confrontations over the budget inflict substantial harm on the economy. It won’t be because they fear the budget deficit, which is coming down fast. Nor will it be because they sincerely believe that spending cuts produce prosperity.
所以，共和党人真的会把我们带到边缘吗？如果会的话，那么弄明白他们为何要这么做将非常重要，连他们自己的领导人都承认，预算上的较量会给经济造成巨大损害。这绝不是因为他们担心目前正在快速降低的预算赤字，也绝不是因为他们真的相信削减开支会带来繁荣。
No, Republicans may be willing to risk economic and financial crisis solely in order to deny essential health care and financial security to millions of their fellow Americans. Let’s hear it for their noble cause!
不，共和党人或许愿意冒着发生经济和金融危机的风险，只是为了剥夺自己数百万美国同胞享受基本医疗保险和经济保障的权利。让我们听听他们有什么冠冕堂皇的理由吧！