WASHINGTON — President Obama said on Saturday that the airstrikes and humanitarian assistance drops he ordered last week in Iraq could go on for months, preparing Americans for an extended military presence in the skies there as Iraq’s leaders try to build a new government.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周六表示，他上周命令在伊拉克开展的空袭和人道主义物资空投可能会持续数月，此番表态意在让美国公众对空中干预的延长做好准备。与此同时，伊拉克领导人正在尝试组建新政府。
“I don’t think we’re going to solve this problem in weeks,” Mr. Obama told reporters before leaving for a two-week golf-and-beach vacation on Martha’s Vineyard. “This is going to be a long-term project.”
在动身前往马萨葡萄园岛休假两周，打高尔夫球，享受海滩之前，奥巴马对记者们表示，“我不认为这个问题可以在几周时间里解决，这将是一个长期的工程。”
The president repeated his insistence that his administration would not send ground troops back to Iraq after ending an unpopular, decade-long war and withdrawing the last troops in 2011. But two days after emphasizing the limited scope of the mission in a White House address, he pledged that the United States would stand with Iraq if it could form a unified and inclusive government to counter the Sunni militants who threaten its future.
奥巴马总统重申，他坚持认为政府不应派遣地面部队回到伊拉克，此前长达十年的伊拉克战争深受公众反对，最后一批部队已于2011年撤出。尽管在白宫的讲话中强调，任务的范围是有限的，但是两天以后他就承诺，如果伊拉克能够组建一个统一、包容的政府，对抗威胁伊拉克未来的逊尼派(Sunni)武装分子，美国就会支持伊拉克。
“Changing that environment so that the millions of Sunnis who live in these areas feel connected to and well served by a national government, that’s a long-term process,” he said during a lengthy departure statement on the White House lawn during which he took several questions from reporters.
奥巴马出发前在白宫草坪上所做的冗长讲话中提到，“改变环境，从而让生活在那些地区的数百万逊尼派民众感到与中央政府有联结，而且得到了良好的服务，这是一个长期的过程。”讲话其间他还接受了几名记者的提问。
The American military continued striking ISIS targets in Iraq on Saturday, with jet fighters and drones conducting four attacks that military officers said were designed to defend Yazidis.
周六，美国军方继续空袭伊拉克境内的ISIS目标，战斗机和无人机进行了四次袭击。军方人员透露，这一轮袭击的目的是保护雅兹迪人。
In a statement issued late Saturday, the military’s Central Command said American fighters and drones first hit one of two armored personnel carriers that ISIS fighters were using to fire on civilians near Sinjar. In follow-up strikes, American aircraft hit three more ISIS armored personnel carriers and a truck with weapons, the statement said. All of the aircraft returned safely.
在周六晚些时候发布的一份声明中，美军中央司令部(Central Command)称，美国战斗机和无人机首先在辛贾尔(Sinjar)附近，炸毁了ISIS作战人员用来向平民发动攻击的两辆装甲运兵车中的一辆。声明中说，在后续的空袭中，美军飞机又打击了三辆ISIS的装甲运兵车，以及一辆运送武器的卡车。所有飞机都安全返航。
The president’s assessment of the campaign’s duration came as Sunni militants with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria began advancing along a main road up Mount Sinjar in northern Iraq, where thousands of Yazidis, an ethnic and religious minority, remained trapped. In Mosul, residents reported that nearly two dozen bodies of ISIS fighters, said to have been killed in American airstrikes, had arrived at the city’s morgue, while at least 30 wounded fighters were being treated at a hospital.
奥巴马对空袭活动的持续时间做出估计之时，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的逊尼派武装分子，也开始沿着一条通向伊拉克北部辛贾尔山的主要道路推进。成千上万的雅兹迪人仍然被困在那里。雅兹迪人是族群和宗教上的少数派。在摩苏尔，居民们称，有20多名ISIS武装分子的尸体运到了该城的停尸间，据称他们是在美国的空袭中丧生的，另外至少有30名受伤的武装分子正在该地的一所医院接受治疗。
Saturday was the first time Mr. Obama had addressed the question of a timeline for the military intervention in Iraq, and his remarks are likely to raise new questions, especially among those who fear that the mission could slowly pull America back into a more robust involvement in the country. The president said he would not give a “particular timetable” on the new operations.
周六这次讲话，是奥巴马首次谈及对伊拉克采取军事干预的时间表。而他的表态有可能引发新的问题，尤其是有人担心这种干预会拖住美国，让美国在伊拉克慢慢陷入更深的漩涡。奥巴马说，对于这次新的军事行动，他不会给出“具体的时间表”。
Aides said that Mr. Obama had not committed to years of continuous airstrikes while Iraqis develop a new government, but that his comments reflected the uncertainty of a military effort that will be re-evaluated in the months ahead.
助手们说，奥巴马并没有表示要在伊拉克组建新政府的时候，连年不断地实施空袭。但是他的言论显示出了一种不确定性，即军事行动会在未来几个月进行重新评估。
The open-ended nature of Mr. Obama’s actions presents a tricky political problem for a president who campaigned against what he once called a “dumb war” and repeatedly pressed Republicans to set a date for the departure of American troops from the battlefield. The last American troops left Iraq in December 2011, yet Mr. Obama now finds himself in charge of a new, if very different, military operation there with no certain end in sight.
奥巴马提出的军事行动没有明确的收尾，这给他带来了一个棘手的政治问题，因为他竞选时曾对伊拉克战争大加批评，称它是一场“愚蠢的战争”，并且多次向共和党施压，让他们为美国军队撤离战场设定一个期限。最后一支美国部队于2011年12月撤出了伊拉克，但奥巴马现在发现，他正在指挥一场在那里发生的、新的军事行动，尽管与之前的战争大不相同，但同样没有确切的结束时间。
When he announced the airstrikes on Thursday night, Mr. Obama emphasized the immediate goals of protecting Americans in Baghdad and in Erbil, the capital of the Kurdish autonomous region in northern Iraq, and helping to rescue the Iraqis trapped by ISIS fighters on the mountain. In his remarks Saturday morning, he focused more on the need to help Iraqis over the long term, giving them what he called space to develop a government that can fight back against militants.
上周四晚宣布要进行空袭的时候，奥巴马强调了一些近期的目标，包括保护身在巴格达，以及伊拉克北部库尔德自治区的首府埃尔比勒的美国人，并帮助营救被ISIS武装分子困在山上的伊拉克人。但在星期六早上的讲话中，他把侧重点更多地放在了对伊拉克给予长期的帮助，为他们提供一些“空间”。他说伊拉克需要空间来组建一个可以反击武装分子的政府。
But his acknowledgment that the effort in Iraq will take time may not be enough to satisfy Republican critics, many of whom accuse Mr. Obama of failing to embrace a sufficiently aggressive air mission aimed at driving the militants out of Iraq and Syria.
他承认在伊拉克的行动需要时间，这可能无法让共和党批评人士感到满意，其中很多人谴责奥巴马没有开展足够强硬的空袭行动，从而将武装分子赶出伊拉克和叙利亚。
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and Mr. Obama’s 2008 presidential opponent, said Saturday that Mr. Obama’s vision for military operations against militants in Iraq was too narrow. He said the actions ordered by the president were not nearly enough to counter a growing threat from “the richest, most powerful terrorist organization in history.”
周六，奥巴马在2008年总统大选中的对手，亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)表示，在开展军事行动对付伊拉克的武装分子方面，奥巴马目光短浅。他表示，要想对抗“史上最富有、最强大的恐怖组织”构成的日益严重的威胁，奥巴马只是下令开展这些行动，是远远不够的。
“Obviously, the president of the United States does not appreciate this is not just a threat to American troops on the ground, or even Iraq or Kurdistan,” Mr. McCain said in a telephone interview from Vietnam, where he was traveling with a congressional delegation. “This is a threat to America.”
“很明显，美国总统没有认识到，这不仅仅是对战场上的美国部队的威胁，甚至不仅仅是对伊拉克和库尔德斯坦的威胁，”麦凯恩在越南接受电话采访时表示。“这还是对美国构成的威胁。”麦凯恩正在随一个国会代表团访问越南。
In describing a potentially long time frame for military action in Iraq, Mr. Obama cited in part the danger and complexity of the rescue mission on Mount Sinjar. The military has airdropped 36,224 meals to the refugees in the last two days, officials said. But Mr. Obama said the much harder task of creating a safe corridor for them would take more time.“The next step, which is going to be complicated logistically, is how can we give people safe passage,” he said.
奥巴马表示在伊拉克的军事行动可能会持续很长时间，部分原因是辛贾尔山的救援任务非常危险、复杂。官员们透露，在过去两天里，美军已经向难民空投了36224份食物。但奥巴马表示，为他们开辟安全走廊要难得多，需要更多时间。奥巴马表示，“下一步是我们如何为人们开辟安全通道，后勤工作非常复杂。”
Defense Department officials expressed confidence that they could achieve within a few days one of Mr. Obama’s announced goals: stopping the advance of the militants on Erbil, where hundreds of American diplomatic officials and military advisers are stationed. On Friday, the military struck a number of ISIS targets near Erbil, including a stationary convoy of seven vehicles and a mobile artillery unit that was being towed by a truck.
国防部官员表示他们有信心在几天之内完成奥巴马宣布的目标之一：阻止武装分子向埃尔比勒推进，数百名外交官员和军事顾问驻扎在埃尔比勒。周五，美军打击了埃尔比勒附近的一些ISIS目标，包括由七辆停着的车辆组成的车队，以及一门由卡车运送的自行火炮。
“We can stop them from moving into Erbil,” a senior Defense Department official said Saturday, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe military planning. “The cost will become too high. There will be a tremendous amount of deterrence in these strikes.”
“我们能够阻止他们进入埃尔比勒，”国防部一名高级官员周六表示。“代价会极高，这些袭击行动会遇到巨大的阻力。”由于讨论的是军事计划，这名官员要求匿名。
But officials said breaking the siege on Mount Sinjar and protecting Americans in Baghdad from advancing ISIS militants would take more time, particularly given the instability of Iraq’s internal politics and the vagaries of protecting and eventually evacuating the stranded Iraqis.
但官员们表示，打破辛贾尔山的围困，在一路推进的ISIS武装分子面前保护身在巴格达的美国人，都需要更多时间，特别是考虑到伊拉克国内政治局势不稳定，而且保护被困的伊拉克人并帮助他们撤离，也是一个变幻莫测的任务。
In Baghdad, efforts to name a replacement for Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite, stalled on Saturday, with Mr. Maliki clinging to power and rivals unable to decide on an alternative. A session of Parliament scheduled for Sunday, when leaders had been expected to nominate a new prime minister, was postponed until Monday.
在巴格达，提名一个人选来取代现任总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的努力周六也毫无进展。什叶派人士马利基紧握权力，他的对手也无法选定替代者。议会原定于周日举行会议，由领导层提名新总理，但会议推至到了周一。
Hours before Mr. Obama spoke in Washington, Sunni militants in northern Iraq ordered engineers to return to work on the Mosul Dam, the country’s largest, suggesting that the extremists who captured the dam last week after fierce battles with Kurdish forces would use it, at least for now, to provide water and electricity to the areas they control.
奥巴马在华盛顿发表讲话前的几个小时，伊拉克北部的逊尼派武装分子命令工程师回到该国最大的水坝摩苏尔坝工作。这说明上周在与库尔德部队展开激战后夺取大坝的极端分子，至少目前将利用该大坝为他们控制的区域供水供电。