WASHINGTON — President Obama strongly defended last week’s preliminary agreement with Iran as a “once in a lifetime opportunity” to curb the spread of nuclear weapons in a dangerous region while reassuring critics that he would keep all options available if Tehran ultimately cheated.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统为上周与伊朗达成的初步协议做出了极力的辩护，称它为“时不再来的机遇”，将在一个危险地区遏制核武器扩散。同时，总统还向批评者保证，如果德黑兰最终食言，他会考虑所有可选对策加以应对。
As he sought to sell the tentative deal to skeptics accusing him of giving away too much, Mr. Obama emphasized to Israel that “we’ve got their backs” in the face of Iranian hostility. And he suggested that he could accept some sort of vote in Congress if it did not block his ability to carry out the agreement.
心存疑虑的人批评他让步太多，他努力让这些人相信这个协议的价值。此外，奥巴马还向以色列强调，面对伊朗威胁，“我们是支持他们的”。他还说，如果国会不阻碍他执行这份协议，他将接受某种形式的国会投票。
“This is our best bet by far to make sure Iran doesn’t get a nuclear weapon,” Mr. Obama said in an interview with Thomas L. Friedman, an Op-Ed columnist for The New York Times, on Saturday. “What we will be doing even as we enter into this deal is sending a very clear message to the Iranians and to the entire region that if anybody messes with Israel, America will be there.”
“这是我们确保伊朗不生产核武器的最有希望的方案，”奥巴马接受《纽约时报》专栏作者托马斯·L·弗里德曼(Thomas L. Friedman)采访时说。“我们在签署这份协议的同时，也在向伊朗和这个地区其他国家发出一个明确表态：谁要和以色列找麻烦，美国一定会干预。”
In the interview, Mr. Obama provided new details about how international inspectors would try to access suspected covert nuclear sites and the sequence that would lead to sanctions being lifted. Both were major issues in the last days of negotiations in Switzerland, and Mr. Obama’s descriptions differed in key respects from Iran’s interpretations.
采访中，奥巴马透露了新的细节，介绍了国际调查员将如何进入可疑的隐蔽核设施现场，以及经过怎样的步骤，才可能终止对伊朗的制裁。这两点在瑞士谈判的最后关头都是主要议题。奥巴马的描述在关键地方与伊朗人的解读不同。
That gap suggested the hardest moments in the negotiations may yet be ahead, given that commitments made last week must still be enshrined in a written document signed by all parties by June 30. But Mr. Obama seemed to gain breathing space as Republicans signaled they would give him until then to see what the final deal looks like before directly intervening.
这种表述的差异可能说明，谈判最艰难的环节还在前面。上周做出的承诺还需要在6月30日之前以书面形式确定，所有参加谈判的各方均需签字。但共和党人发出了信号，他们会等到那时候，在直接干预之前，先看看最终协议的内容。奥巴马因此有了回旋的余地。
The president’s comments came as the White House embarked on a campaign to sell a preliminary agreement that he hopes will transform security in the Middle East. Under the framework, negotiated with the United States and five other world powers, Iran agreed to scale back its nuclear program significantly for 10 to 15 years and accept intense international inspections. In exchange, the United States and the international community would lift sanctions that have punished the Iranian economy.
奥巴马发表这番讲话时，白宫正在全力宣传这份初步协议。总统希望这份协议将彻底改变中东安全形势。根据这份与美国和其他五个大国达成的协议，伊朗同意在10到15年间大幅度削减它的核项目，并接受国际组织的密切监督。作为交换，美国和国际社会将终止遏制伊朗经济发展的制裁措施。
While in theory preventing Iran from being able to quickly build a bomb, the agreement leaves it with a nuclear program in place, even if much diminished, drawing criticism from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Republican leaders in Congress as well as skepticism from Arab allies and many Democrats.
虽然在理论上，伊朗将无法迅速生产出核武器，但这个协议让它保留了核工业——虽然是大幅削减之后的。以色列总理内塔尼亚胡、美国国会中的共和党领袖都对此进行批评。阿拉伯盟国和美国民主党内也有人心存疑虑。
“Not a single centrifuge is destroyed,” Mr. Netanyahu said Sunday on “State of the Union” on CNN. “Not a single nuclear facility is shut down, including the underground facilities that they build illicitly. Thousands of centrifuges will keep spinning, enriching uranium. That’s a very bad deal.”
“没有一台离心机被毁，”内塔尼亚胡周日在CNN的节目《美国国情》(State of the Union)上说。“没有一处核设施被关闭，包括他们偷偷建的地下设施。成千上万台离心机会保持运转，浓缩铀。这是一项非常糟糕的协议。”
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a possible Republican presidential candidate, said it was “probably the best deal that Barack Obama could get with the Iranians because the Iranians don’t fear” him. “Hillary Clinton could do better,” he added, as could all the Republican candidates “except maybe Rand Paul.”
或许会竞选总统的南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)表示，它“很可能是贝拉克·奥巴马能同伊朗达成的最佳协议，因为伊朗并不害怕”他。“希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)可以做得更好，”他接着说，“大概除了兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)外”所有共和党候选人都可以。
But Mr. Graham said he would wait to see how the final agreement looked. “I don’t mind giving the administration the time between now and June to put this deal together,” he said on “Face the Nation” on CBS.
不过，格雷厄姆表示，他会等着看看最终协议是什么样子。“我不介意给奥巴马政府从现在到6月的这段时间，让他达成这项协议，”他在CBS的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)上说。
In the interview, the president struck a conciliatory note after weeks of open tension with Mr. Netanyahu, a clash that has worried even some White House advisers. Mr. Obama said “I respect” Mr. Netanyahu’s security argument and agreed that Israelis “have every right to be concerned about Iran,” a country that has threatened “to destroy Israel, that has denied the Holocaust, that has expressed venomous anti-Semitic ideas.”
接受采访时，奥巴马总统发出了和解的信号。此前数周，他和内塔尼亚胡一直公开表现出关系紧张。就连白宫的一些顾问都对两人之间的冲突感到担心。奥巴马说，“我尊重”内塔尼亚胡提出的安全问题，也同意以色列“完全有权担忧伊朗”这个威胁“要摧毁以色列、否认大屠杀并表达了恶毒的反犹观点”的国家。
He pledged to redouble support for Israeli security. “I would consider it a failure on my part, a fundamental failure of my presidency, if on my watch, or as a consequence of work that I had done, Israel was rendered more vulnerable,” he said. Similarly, he said he wanted to use a meeting he has called at Camp David to “formalize” security assistance for Arab allies threatened by Iran.
他承诺加倍支持以色列的安全。“如果在我任内，或是因为我做的事情的原因，以色列变得更容易受攻击，我会认为那是自己的失败，是我总统任期内的重大失败，”他说。同样，他表示自己想利用在戴维营召集的一次会议，来“正式确定”对受到伊朗威胁的阿拉伯盟友的安全援助。
While still resisting what he deemed congressional interference, Mr. Obama reached out to Republicans, calling Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, a “good and decent man.” He did not embrace Mr. Corker’s legislation to give Congress the right to approve or reject the deal. But when asked about a nonbinding vote, the president appeared supportive.
尽管依然抗拒他眼中的国会干预，奥巴马还是向共和党伸出了手，宣称参议院外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席、来自田纳西州的鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)是一个“正派的好人”。他不愿采纳考克提出的立法建议。该提案的内容是赋予国会批准或否决这项协议的权利。但被问及举行一次没有约束力的投票时，奥巴马总统似乎持支持态度。
“My hope is that we can find something that allows Congress to express itself but does not encroach on traditional presidential prerogatives and ensures that if in fact we get a good deal that we can go ahead and implement it,” Mr. Obama said.
“我的希望是，我们能找到某个办法，既能允许国会表达自己的观点，但又不会侵犯传统的总统特权，并能确保如果实际上达成了一项不错的协议，我们能予以批准和执行，”奥巴马说。
Mr. Corker, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” immediately rejected the idea of a nonbinding vote. “There is strong bipartisan support for a binding vote by Congress,” he said. “Look, the president needs to sell this to the American people, and Congress needs to be involved in this way.”
考克现身《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)节目时立即否定了举行不具约束力的投票这个主意。“两党均强烈支持国会举行有约束力的投票，”他说。“总统需要说服美国民众相信这个方案，国会也需要以这种方式参与。”
Under the agreement, Iran would limit enrichment of uranium at its Natanz facility to a level useful only for civilian purposes; cut back the number of installed centrifuges by approximately two thirds; convert its Fordo deep-underground enrichment facility into a research center; and modify its Arak heavy-water reactor to render it incapable of producing plutonium for a bomb.
根据这份协议，伊朗将把纳坦兹的铀浓缩限制在只能民用的水平上；将安装的离心机的数量削减约三分之二；将福尔道地下浓缩设施改为研究中心；将阿拉克的重水反应堆加以改造，使它无法生产制造核弹所需的钚。
But the structure of international inspections was left vague, as was the timing for lifting sanctions.
不过，国际核查工作的架构仍然模糊不清，中止制裁的时间也不明确。
Mr. Obama said sanctions would be lifted only after Iran lives up to its commitments. “There are still details to be worked out,” he said, “but I think that the basic framework calls for Iran to take the steps that it needs to around Fordo, the centrifuges and so forth. At that point, then the U.N. sanctions are suspended.”
奥巴马指出，只有在伊朗遵守了承诺之后，才会取消制裁。“还有一些细节问题需要解决，”他说，“但我认为，目前的基本框架需要伊朗对福尔道和离心机等采取必要的措施。届时，联合国的制裁才会中止。”
He said the United States would “preserve the ability to snap back those sanctions if there is a violation.” And he added that separate sanctions imposed for other reasons, namely Iran’s sponsorship of terrorists and its ballistic missile program, would remain in place.
他说，美国将“保留立即恢复制裁的能力，防止伊朗违反协议”。他还表示，还有一些制裁是其他原因导致的，比如伊朗对恐怖分子的支持，还有它的弹道导弹计划，这些制裁仍将存在。
Administration officials said they envisioned Iran being able to take the required steps within months or a year of an agreement, at which point nuclear-related economic sanctions would be removed. But a major sticking point in the coming months will be the issue of additional sanctions imposed for other reasons.
奥巴马政府的官员称，他们预计伊朗将能够在协议达成后的数月或一年时间里采取必要措施，届时与核相关的经济制裁将会取消。不过，伊朗因为其他原因而受到的制裁，会是未来几个月谈判的一大障碍。
Mr. Obama said almost nothing about how the United States and its allies would force Iran to answer questions about suspected past work on weapons designs. For years, Iran has blocked inspectors from visiting laboratories where such work is believed to have been conducted.
奥巴马几乎没有提到美国及其盟友将如何迫使伊朗回答有关外界怀疑该国曾经进行武器设计的问题。多年来，伊朗一直阻止核查人员进入据信开展了这类工作的实验室。
Mr. Obama presented the nuclear agreement in broader terms. He admitted that he remained uncertain about the intentions of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, with whom he has exchanged letters. “He’s a pretty tough read,” Mr. Obama said. The ayatollah’s letters, he said, are filled with “a lot of reminders of what he perceives as past grievances against Iran.”
奥巴马展示的是这份核协议的大致内容。他承认，自己仍然不确定伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ali Khamenei)的意图。两人已经通了信。奥巴马说，“他让人很难捉摸。”阿亚图拉的信中，“无处不在提醒着在他看来伊朗过去遭受的苦难。”
But Mr. Obama said it was telling that the ayatollah allowed his negotiators to make concessions, and he held out hope that the agreement would empower more moderate figures, although he said he was not counting on it.
不过，奥巴马表示，可以看出的是，哈梅内伊允许手下的谈判人员做出让步。他也感到了希望，即这份协议或许会让伊朗较为温和的派别扩大权力，不过他并不指望这种情况一定会发生。
“Who knows?” he added. “Iran may change.” But if not, he said, the United States retains “the most firepower” to address any contingencies.
“谁知道呢？”他接着说。“伊朗可能会改变。”但如果不变的话，美国保持着应对任何紧急情况的“最大火力”。
“It’s not as if in all these conversations, I’m leaving all my, you know, rifles at the door,” he said.
“并不是说，在所有这些对话中，我都把自己的全部武器留在了门外，”他说。