WASHINGTON — President Obama, expanding his push to curtail severe penalties in drug cases, on Thursday commuted the sentences of eight federal inmates who were convicted of crack cocaine offenses. Each inmate has been imprisoned for at least 15 years, and six were sentenced to life in prison.
华盛顿——周四，美国总统奥巴马为八名因为霹雳可卡因犯罪而入狱的联邦囚犯减了刑，进一步扩大了旨在限制对毒品犯罪进行严厉处罚的行动。这八名囚犯此前都被处以至少15年的监禁，其中有六人被处以终身监禁。
It was the first time retroactive relief was provided to a group of inmates who would most likely have received significantly shorter terms if they had been sentenced under current drug laws, sentencing rules and charging policies. Most will be released in 120 days. The commutations opened a major new front in the administration’s efforts to curb soaring taxpayer spending on prisons and to help correct what it has portrayed as inequality in the justice system.
如果按照当前的毒品法律、量刑规则和指控政策，一些正在服刑的犯人的刑期可能要短得多。这是美国首次向这类犯人提供有追溯力的减刑待遇。这八名囚犯中多数将在120天内被释放。奥巴马政府正在抑制监狱带来的纳税人支出高涨，并帮助纠正在司法系统中被认定为不公正的量刑，而这些减刑决定为奥巴马政府的上述行动开辟了一个重要的新战场。
In a statement, Mr. Obama said that each of the eight men and women had been sentenced under what is now recognized as an “unfair system,” including a 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine offenses that was significantly reduced by the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010.
奥巴马在一份声明中说，对这八名男性及女性囚犯量刑时所依据的法律，现在已经被认为是一种“不公的制度”，例如，霹雳可卡因犯罪和粉末可卡因犯罪存在量刑区别，刑期差异可高达100比1。2010年的公平量刑法案(Fair Sentencing Act)大幅缩小了这个差距。
“If they had been sentenced under the current law, many of them would have already served their time and paid their debt to society,” Mr. Obama said. “Instead, because of a disparity in the law that is now recognized as unjust, they remain in prison, separated from their families and their communities, at a cost of millions of taxpayer dollars each year.”
奥巴马说，如果根据目前的法律量刑，他们中的许多人可能已经刑满，已经还清了他们对社会欠下的债。我们现在已经认识到当时的法律是不公正的，但因为当时这些不公正的法律，他们现在仍然被关在监狱，与家人和朋友相隔绝，而且每年还要耗费纳税人数百万美元。
The commutations have come during a pendulum swing away from tough mandatory minimum sentencing laws enacted a generation ago amid the crack epidemic. The policies fueled an 800 percent increase in the number of prisoners in the United States. They also carried a racial charge: Offenses involving crack, which was disproportionately prevalent in impoverished black communities, carried far more severe penalties than those for powder cocaine, favored by affluent white users.
此次减刑正值一些苛刻的强制最低量刑法律处在被淘汰的阶段。这些法律是二三十年前在可卡因泛滥时颁布实施的，导致美国监狱的囚犯人数猛增了8倍。这些法律还被指存在种族歧视：与霹雳可卡因有关的刑罚比粉末可卡因犯罪引发的刑罚要更严重，而霹雳可卡因犯罪在贫穷的黑人聚居区尤其猖獗，富裕的白人吸毒者则喜欢粉末可卡因。
According to Families Against Mandatory Minimums, about 8,800 federal inmates are serving time for crack offenses committed before Congress reduced mandatory minimum sentences, going forward, in the 2010 law.
根据反对强制最低量刑家庭组织(Families Against Mandatory Minimums)的数据，目前有8800名霹雳可卡因罪犯的罪行发生在国会2010年通过立法缩短强制最低刑期之前。
The commutation recipients included Clarence Aaron of Mobile, Ala., who was sentenced to three life terms in prison for his role in a 1993 drug deal, when he was 22. Mr. Aaron’s case has been taken up by civil rights groups and congressional critics of severe sentencing for nonviolent drug offenses, and has received significant media attention.
减刑的受益者包括亚拉巴马州莫比尔的克拉伦斯·亚伦(Clarence Aaron)，他因为1993年参与了一桩毒品交易被判处三次终身监禁，当时他22岁。亚伦的案子被民权组织以及国会中反对将非暴力毒品犯罪作为重罪严惩的人士多次提及，引起了媒体的极大关注。
Margaret Love, his lawyer, said she received a call informing her of the decision on Thursday morning and called her client, who along with his family was “very grateful.”
他的律师玛格丽特·拉夫(Margaret Love)说，她接到了一个电话，因此得知了周四上午的决定，于是她打电话给艾伦，他和家人都“充满感激”。
“He was absolutely overcome,” Ms. Love said. “Actually, I was, too. He was in tears. This has been a long haul for him, 20 years. He just was speechless, and it’s very exciting.”
拉夫说，“他完全没想到，事实上，我也是。他留下了眼泪。这对他来说是很长的一段人生，20年啊。他说不出话来，这个消息非常令人激动。”
Rights groups like the American Civil Liberties Union, which had profiled several of the recipients in a recent report on nonviolent offenders serving life sentences, greeted the announcement with praise and calls for additional efforts.
美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)等民权组织对这个决定表示赞赏，并呼吁采取更多行动。公民自由联盟在最近一份关于被判终身监禁的非暴力罪犯的报告中介绍了几名受益者的情况。
Reaction among conservatives, who in states like Texas and South Carolina have been at the forefront of efforts to reduce the mass incarceration of nonviolent offenders, was muted. The top Republicans on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees declined to comment.
保守派人士对此保持缄默。在德克萨斯和南卡罗来纳等州，保守派一直是反对大规模监禁非暴力犯罪者的行动的先锋。参众两院司法委员会的共和党领导人均拒绝置评。
The commutation recipients also included Reynolds Wintersmith, of Rockford, Ill., who was 17 in 1994 when he was sentenced to life in prison for dealing crack, and Stephanie George, of Pensacola, Fla., who received a life sentence in 1997, when she was 27, for hiding a boyfriend’s stash of crack in a box in her house. In both cases, the judges criticized the mandatory sentences they were required to impose, calling them unjust.
减刑的受益者还包括伊利诺伊州罗克福德的雷诺兹·温特史密斯(Reynolds Wintersmith)，以及佛罗里达州彭萨科拉的斯蒂芬妮·乔治(Stephanie George)。温特史密斯1994年因为贩卖可卡因被判处终身监禁，当时17岁。乔治1997年被判处终身监禁，当时她27岁，因为她在家中的一个箱子里藏匿了男朋友的可卡因。在这两个案子中，法官都对他们被迫施加的强制刑罚进行了谴责，说这些刑罚并不公正。
In December 2012, The New York Times published an article about Ms. George’s case and the larger rethinking of the social and economic costs of long prison terms for nonviolent offenders. Mr. Obama mentioned the article in an interview with Time magazine that day and said he was considering asking officials about ways to do things “smarter.”
2012年12月，《纽约时报》发表了一篇文章，对乔治一案以及长期监禁非暴力犯罪者的社会和经济成本进行了更大范围的反思。奥巴马在接受《时代》(Time)杂志采访时提到了这篇文章，并表示，他正在考虑向官员询问，怎样“更聪明”地行事。
Around that time, a senior White House official said, Mr. Obama directed Kathryn Ruemmler, his White House counsel, to ask the Justice Department to examine pending clemency petitions to assess whether there were any in which current inmates serving long sentences would have benefited from subsequent changes to sentencing laws and policy.
白宫的一名高级官员说，大约在那个时候，奥巴马责令白宫顾问凯瑟琳·鲁姆勒(Kathryn Ruemmler)向司法部提出要求，对未决的从宽请愿书进行审阅，评估是否有目前长期服刑的囚犯能够从量刑法律和政策的变化中受益。
The deputy attorney general, James M. Cole, who oversees the pardon office, worked on the policy shift and ultimately returned the eight cases with positive recommendations from the department, the official said.
这名官员说，分管特赦检察官办公室(Office of the Pardon Attorney)的司法部副部长詹姆斯·M·科尔(James M. Cole)研究了政策变化，最终交回了这八个案子，由司法部建议特赦。
A bill co-sponsored by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, would make the Fair Sentencing Act retroactive for some offenders, allowing inmates to apply to a judge for a review of whether a reduced sentence would be appropriate.
伊利诺伊州民主党参议员理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)和犹他州共和党人迈克·李(Mike Lee)共同支持的一个法案将让公平量刑法案具有追溯性，允许一些犯人向法官申请重新审核其情况是否可以减刑。
The Obama administration supports that bill, the White House said on Thursday, as an orderly way to ensure case-by-case analysis in addressing the broader problem.
白宫周四表示，奥巴马政府支持这一法案，这种有序的方式可以在解决更广泛问题时，确保逐个案件进行分析。
“In the new year, lawmakers should act on the kinds of bipartisan sentencing reform measures already working their way through Congress,” Mr. Obama said. “Together, we must ensure that our taxpayer dollars are spent wisely, and that our justice system keeps its basic promise of equal treatment for all.”
奥巴马说，“在新的一年，议员们将遵照已经进入国会的两党量刑改革措施。我们必须共同确保纳税人的钱被用在需要的地方，确保我们的司法体系信守了最基本的承诺，让每个人得到公平的待遇。”