WASHINGTON — The Obama administration is working to forge a sweeping international climate change agreement to compel nations to cut their planet-warming fossil fuel emissions, but without ratification from Congress.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府正在努力打造一项涵盖广泛的气候变化国际协议，以迫使各国削减自身的化石燃料温室气体排放，同时又无需获得国会的批准。
In preparation for this agreement, to be signed at a United Nations summit meeting in 2015 in Paris, the negotiators are meeting with diplomats from other countries to broker a deal to commit some of the world’s largest economies to enact laws to reduce their carbon pollution. But under the Constitution, a president may enter into a legally binding treaty only if it is approved by a two-thirds majority of the Senate.
按照计划，这项协议将于2015年在巴黎举行的联合国峰会上签署。为了做好准备，谈判代表们在与别国外交官会谈，以促成条约，从而让世界上一些最大的经济体承诺施行削减其碳排放污染的法规。不过，按照美国宪法，有法律约束力的国际条约必须获得参议院三分之二多数通过，总统方能使之生效。
To sidestep that requirement, President Obama’s climate negotiators are devising what they call a “politically binding” deal that would “name and shame” countries into cutting their emissions. The deal is likely to face strong objections from Republicans on Capitol Hill and from poor countries around the world, but negotiators say it may be the only realistic path.
为了绕开这一要求，奥巴马总统麾下的气候谈判官员正在打造一种新协议：他们称之为“具有政治约束力”的协议，能够通过“点名谴责”的方式让各国削减排放。这种协议很可能面临共和党议员和全球贫困国家的强烈反对，但谈判代表们表示，这或许是唯一现实的路径。
“If you want a deal that includes all the major emitters, including the U.S., you cannot realistically pursue a legally binding treaty at this time,” said Paul Bledsoe, a top climate change official in the Clinton administration who works closely with the Obama White House on international climate change policy.
“如果想要一个囊括全部排放大国的协议，美国也参与其中，那么从现实的角度出发，目前就无法去寻求一项具有法律约束力的条约，”曾在克林顿政府任气候变化高级官员的保罗·布莱索(Paul Bledsoe)说。他与奥巴马政府在国际气候变化政策议题上有着密切的合作关系。
Lawmakers in both parties on Capitol Hill say there is no chance that the currently gridlocked Senate will ratify a climate change treaty in the near future, especially in a political environment where many Republican lawmakers remain skeptical of the established science of human-caused global warming.
国会山的两党议员均表示，在参议院陷入泥沼的当下，绝不可能短期内批准一项气候变化条约，尤其是考虑到目前的政治环境——许多共和党议员始终对人类能导致全球变暖的科学共识持怀疑态度。
“There’s a strong understanding of the difficulties of the U.S. situation, and a willingness to work with the U.S. to get out of this impasse,” said Laurence Tubiana, the French ambassador for climate change to the United Nations. “There is an implicit understanding that this not require ratification by the Senate.”
“人们对美国现实的艰巨性有着很深的理解，也愿意与美国合作来摆脱这种僵局，”法国驻联合国气候变化大使洛朗斯·蒂比亚纳(Laurence Tubiana)说。“这里面蕴含的共识是，不需要经过参议院的批准。”
American negotiators are instead homing in on a hybrid agreement — a proposal to blend legally binding conditions from an existing 1992 treaty with new voluntary pledges. The mix would create a deal that would update the treaty, and thus, negotiators say, not require a new vote of ratification.
美国谈判代表转而朝着一项混合协议努力，提出的建议是，以现有的1992年公约中具有法律约束力的条款为基础，再加上新的志愿性承诺。他们宣称，这种混合创造出来的条约将是老公约的更新，因此无需参议院再次投票予以批准。
Countries would be legally required to enact domestic climate change policies — but would voluntarily pledge to specific levels of emissions cuts and to channel money to poor countries to help them adapt to climate change. Countries might then be legally obligated to report their progress toward meeting those pledges at meetings held to identify those nations that did not meet their cuts.
各国将有法律义务来施行国内的气候变化政策，但志愿承诺具体的减排水平，以及给贫穷国家提供帮助它们适应气候变化的资金。接下来，各国或许要承担报告自身履行承诺的进展的法律义务，在会议中锁定哪些国家没能达到减排目标。
“There’s some legal and political magic to this,” said Jake Schmidt, an expert in global climate negotiations with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an advocacy group. “They’re trying to move this as far as possible without having to reach the 67-vote threshold” in the Senate.
“这里有些法律和政治上的魔法成份，”环保团体自然资源保护协会(Natural Resources Defense Council)的气候变化谈判专家杰克·施密特(Jake Schmidt)说。“他们在尝试尽可能地推进这件事，同时又不用非得跨越（参议院）67票的门槛。”
The strategy comes as scientists warn that the earth is already experiencing the first signs of human-caused global warming — more severe drought and stronger wildfires, rising sea levels and more devastating storms — and the United Nations heads toward what many say is the body’s last chance to avert more catastrophic results in the coming century.
推出这项策略的背景是，科学家们发出警告，地球已经出现了人类导致的全球变暖带来的早期迹象——严重干旱增多、山火加剧、海平面上升，以及毁灭性风暴频发——而联合国正在朝着缔结新约努力。许多人声言，为了避免未来100年间地球遭受更为灾难性的后果，这是联合国最后的机会。
At the United Nations General Assembly in New York next month, delegates will gather at a sideline meeting on climate change to try to make progress toward the deal next year in Paris. A December meeting is planned in Lima, Peru, to draft the agreement.
在下月将于纽约召开的联合国大会上，各国代表将举行一个气候变化边会，以尝试推动明年在巴黎达成协议。按照计划，今年12月将在秘鲁利马举行会议，以起草条约。
In seeking to go around Congress to push his international climate change agenda, Mr. Obama is echoing his domestic climate strategy. In June, he bypassed Congress and used his executive authority to order a far-reaching regulation forcing American coal-fired power plants to curb their carbon emissions. That regulation, which would not be not final until next year, already faces legal challenges, including a lawsuit filed on behalf of a dozen states.
寻求绕过国会以推进国际气候变化议程的做法，与奥巴马的国内气候策略一脉相承。今年6月，他避开国会，动用行政权签署了一项涉及广泛的监管规定，迫使国内的燃煤电厂控制碳排放。这项监管规定明年才会正式实施，但已面临多项法律挑战，包括代表十二个州联合提出的一桩诉讼。
But unilateral action by the world’s largest economy will not be enough to curb the rise of carbon pollution across the globe. That will be possible only if the world’s largest economies, including India and China, agree to enact similar cuts.
然而，世界最大经济体的单方面行动并不足以遏制全球碳排放污染的加剧。只有包括印度和中国在内的世界其他大型经济体同意施行类似的削减措施，才有可能做到这一点。
The Obama administration’s international climate strategy is likely to infuriate Republican lawmakers who already say the president is abusing his executive authority by pushing through major policies without congressional approval.
奥巴马政府的国际气候策略很可能会激怒共和党议员。他们本已宣称，总统未经国会批准而推行重大政策是滥用行政权。
“Unfortunately, this would be just another of many examples of the Obama administration’s tendency to abide by laws that it likes and to disregard laws it doesn’t like — and to ignore the elected representatives of the people when they don’t agree,” Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader, said in a statement.
“很不幸，这不过是众多例子中的一个：奥巴马政府倾向于选择自己喜欢的法律履行，无视不喜欢的法律，忽略与他们意见相左的民选代表，”参议院共和党领袖、来自肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)发表声明称。
A deal that would not need to be ratified by the United States or any other nation is also drawing fire from the world’s poorest countries. In African and low-lying island nations — places that scientists say are the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change — officials fear that any agreement made outside the structure of a traditional United Nations treaty will not bind rich countries to spend billions of dollars to help developing nations deal with the forces of climate change.
无需美国或任何其他国家批准的条约也招致了世界贫困国家的抨击。在科学家口中，非洲国家和海拔低的岛国面对气候变化的影响时脆弱性最高。这些地方的官员担心，在联合国传统条约的框架外订立的任何协议，将不能强制要求富裕国家掏出数以亿计的资金来帮助发展中国家应对气候变化。