The Obama political operation that once buried Hillary Rodham Clinton’s White House ambitions is now rapidly converging around her possible 2016 presidential bid, conferring on Mrs. Clinton enormous early advantages in money, expertise and voter targeting techniques.
奥巴马的政治团队曾在过去击溃了希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)问鼎白宫的野心，但现在正在迅速地集结起来，为她2016年可能的竞选活动进行筹备，使得希拉里·克林顿在金钱、专业知识和瞄准选民的技术上，都因此获得了巨大的先期优势。
On Thursday, Priorities USA Action, a “super PAC” that played an important role in helping re-elect President Obama, announced that it was formally aligning itself with Mrs. Clinton and would begin raising money to fend off potential opponents for 2016. The group — the largest Democratic super PAC in the country — also named new directors to steer the organization, appointments that will both cement the group’s pro-Clinton tilt and also thrust veterans of Mr. Obama’s political and fund-raising operation into the center of the post-Obama Democratic Party.
周四，超级政治行动委员会（简称“超级PAC”）“优先美国行动”(Priorities USA Action)宣布，正式支持克林顿，并将开始筹措资金，抵御2016年大选中潜在的竞争对手。优先美国行动是民主党最大的超级PAC，对奥巴马总统竞选连任起到了重要的帮助。该组织还任命了新的管理层，这些任命既可以巩固其支持克林顿的倾向，又可以将参与过奥巴马的政治运作和筹款行动的老将，在他卸任后再度纳入到民主党的中心。
The move marks perhaps the earliest start to big-dollar fund-raising in support of a nonincumbent presidential candidate, providing a fund-raising portal for wealthy Clinton supporters eager to help her White House prospects — and to the legions of others eager to ingratiate themselves with Mrs. Clinton and her inner circle.
针对非在任总统的候选人，这或许是开始最早的一次巨额募资活动。它开辟了一条筹资渠道，吸引那些迫不及待想要支持克林顿角逐白宫的富有支持者，也为大批想要结交克林顿，挤进她的圈子的其他人打开了一条通路。
Jim Messina, Mr. Obama’s campaign manager in 2012, who has forged close ties with many Democratic donors, will serve as co-chairman of the revamped super PAC and an affiliated nonprofit, along with Jennifer M. Granholm, the former governor of Michigan, who is among the most persistent voices calling for Mrs. Clinton to enter the 2016 race.
奥巴马2012年竞选团队的经理吉姆·梅西纳(Jim Messina)与民主党的捐款人之间建立了紧密关系，他将在这个改组后的超级PAC及一家附属的非营利组织里，与詹妮弗·M·格兰霍姆(Jennifer M. Granholm)一道，担任联席主席。格兰霍姆曾任密歇根州州长，一直长期坚定地呼吁克林顿角逐2016年大选。
Mr. Messina joins a growing list of Obama veterans aligning themselves with Mrs. Clinton: Jeremy Bird and Mitch Stewart, for example, who led Mr. Obama’s field efforts in 2012, are working closely with Ready for Hillary, a pro-Clinton super PAC that is focused on recruiting small donors and building lists of grass-roots supporters.
开始支持克林顿的奥巴马团队老将越来越多，梅西纳只是其中一个。比如，在奥巴马2012年竞选时负责基层动员的杰里米·伯德(Jeremy Bird)和米奇·斯图尔特(Mitch Stewart)就正在与支持克林顿的超级PAC“万事俱备，希拉里”(Ready for Hillary)密切合作。该组织专注于吸引小额捐助者和凝聚草根支持者。
Priorities, by contrast, has begun seeking six- and seven-figure checks to power major advertising expenditures in support of Mrs. Clinton — including, if necessary, responses to attacks by Republicans and conservatives in advance of a formal campaign declaration. (Like all super PACs, the group would be barred from coordinating spending and strategy with Mrs. Clinton if she entered the presidential race.)
与之不同的是，优先美国行动已经开始寻求六位数、七位数的支票，用以投放大量支持克林顿的广告。如有必要，它还会在正式宣布竞选开始之前，投放广告回应共和党及保守派的攻击。（像所有超级PAC一样，如果克林顿参加总统竞选，这个团体将被禁止与克林顿本人协调支出和宣传策略。）
“I think the numbers clearly show that she’s the strongest presidential candidate on the Democratic side,” Mr. Messina said in an interview. “And Priorities is going to be there for her if she decides to run.”
“我想，数据明确显示她是民主党一方最有力的总统候选人，”梅西纳在一次采访中说。“如果她决定参选，优先美国行动会鼎力支持。”
Mr. Messina is now the highest-profile member of Mr. Obama’s inner circle to openly back Mrs. Clinton for president, a move that can only fuel perceptions that Mrs. Clinton’s potential candidacy has the tacit endorsement of Mr. Obama himself.
目前，梅西纳是奥巴马身边幕僚中，最为高调地公开支持克林顿参选的一个。这一举动只会让人揣测，奥巴马本人是否已心照不宣地支持克林顿成为候选人。
Donors and others involved with Priorities said that they would look to far surpass the $67 million that Priorities spent on attack ads against Mitt Romney during the 2012 election. Those ads — including the “coffin ad,” featuring workers laid off from a plant acquired by Bain Capital, Mr. Romney’s former firm — helped define Mr. Romney early in the campaign, a blueprint the group hopes to use on Mrs. Clinton’s prospective Republican opponents.
曾与优先美国行动有过联系的捐款人和其他人表示，他们预期筹资金额将会远远超过这个组织在2012年大选中，用于投放攻击米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)的广告的6700万美元（约合4亿元人民币）。那些攻击罗姆尼的广告中包括一系列“棺材广告”，这些广告的主要人物是贝恩资本(Bain Capital)所收购的工厂的下岗工人，而罗姆尼曾是贝恩的掌门人。这一系列广告在竞选初期就帮助设定了罗姆尼的形象。现在，优先美国行动也希望用同样的做法，以克林顿的视角描绘共和党对手。
Steve Mostyn, a prominent Houston trial lawyer and Democratic donor who, with his wife, Amber, was among the earliest major donors to Priorities in 2012, said he believed that liberal donors would come out in force should Mrs. Clinton enter the race.
休斯顿的重量级庭审律师、民主党捐款人史蒂夫·莫斯廷(Steve Mostyn)与妻子安贝(Amber)携手跻身优先美国行动2012年最早的一批大捐款人之列。他认为，如果克林顿参选，自由派捐款人将纷纷解囊。
“Amber and I are both excited about the prospects of being part of the super PAC for Hillary if she decides to run,” Mr. Mostyn said. “The first time was kind of a leap of faith for us — it was back when no one was giving Priorities money. I think it’ll be easier with Hillary.”
“安贝和我都很兴奋，如果希拉里决定参选的话，我们有望成为支持她的超级PAC的一份子，”莫斯廷称。“对我们来说，上回是种大胆尝试，那时候还没人拿钱给‘优先美国行动’。我想，希拉里的话应该会容易一些。” Priorities’ long-awaited restart has drawn intense scrutiny in recent months, with press reports detailing the group’s courtship of Mr. Messina and of Clinton luminaries like John D. Podesta, a White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton who is now a counselor to President Obama.
最近这几个月，众人期待已久的优先美国行动的重启吸引了诸多关注目光。媒体报道详细描述了该组织如何力图打动梅西纳，以及克林顿圈子的红人，比如比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府的白宫幕僚长、奥巴马总统如今的顾问约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)。
Mr. Messina declined to say whether he had discussed his new role with Mr. Obama or with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., another potential 2016 candidate, and it remains unclear whether the group would intervene in a primary campaign should Mrs. Clinton face other contenders for the Democratic nomination.
梅西纳拒绝透露，他是否与奥巴马或者副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)讨论过自己的新工作，后者也是2016年大选的潜在候选人。而且，尚不明朗的是，当克林顿在民主党提名阶段面对其他竞争者的时候，该组织是否会插手初选。
Mr. Messina will join other Obama and Clinton veterans at the group, including Buffy Wicks, a former Obama field director now serving as Priorities’ executive director; Jonathan Mantz, who was finance director for Mrs. Clinton’s last presidential campaign; and Peter Kauffmann, who was a press secretary for Mrs. Clinton’s first Senate campaign.
梅西纳将与该组织的其他一些奥巴马与克林顿圈子的老面孔共事，其中包括：曾任奥巴马竞选团队基层活动主管、现任优先美国行动执行总监的巴菲·威克斯(Buffy Wicks)；克林顿上次总统竞选团队的财务主管乔纳森·曼茨(Jonathan Mantz)；以及克林顿首次参议院竞选的发言人彼得·考夫曼(Peter Kauffmann)。
Mr. Messina will also remain chairman of Organizing for Action, the nonprofit advocacy group that grew out of Mr. Obama’s re-election campaign and raised $26 million last year to advance Mr. Obama’s agenda on the environment, health care and gun regulation. The group shares several major donors with Priorities USA, including the New York philanthropist Amy Goldman Fowler; Barbara Stiefel, a Florida fund-raiser; and Fred Eychaner, a Chicago media executive.
梅西纳还将留任“行动组织”(Organizing for Action)的主席一职。这是一家非营利性倡导机构，脱胎于奥巴马的连任竞选团队，去年筹集了2600万美元来推进奥巴马在环境、医保和枪支管控方面的议程。好几名大捐款人同时资助了它与优先美国行动，比如纽约慈善家埃米·戈德曼·福勒(Amy Goldman Fowler)、佛罗里达州的筹款人芭芭拉·施蒂费尔(Barbara Stiefel)，以及芝加哥的媒体高管弗雷德·埃什纳(Fred Eychaner)。
But Mr. Messina said he did not believe that the Obama group and Priorities would be competing for the same dollars, since Organizing for Action takes in most of its revenue from Mr. Obama’s army of small donors.
不过，梅西纳表示，他认为支持奥巴马的行动组织与优先美国行动之间并不存在筹款竞争，因为前者的收入主要来自支持奥巴马的众多小捐款人。
“What I think Priorities is going to do better than anyone else is continue our data advantage and be on the offense,” Mr. Messina said. “Whoever runs for president.”
“我认为，‘优先美国行动’无人能敌的地方将在于，延续我们的数据优势，采取攻势，”梅西纳说。“不管谁来竞选总统。”