BARACK OBAMA is surely the first president to be accused of acting in foreign policy like Pollyanna, John Wayne and Henry Kissinger in the same month.
贝拉克·奥巴马无疑是第一位遭受这样指责的美国总统：同一个月里在外交政策上先后展现出波利安娜(Pollyanna)、约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)和亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)的风格。
Ever since Russian President Vladimir Putin’s land grab in Crimea, conservatives have denounced President Obama as a man who doesn’t appreciate what a merciless, Hobbesian world this really is. He’s a Pollyanna — always looking for people’s good side. Meanwhile, liberals have been hammering Obama for what they say is his trigger-happy drone habit, having ordered the targeted killing by air of hundreds of individuals; he’s John Wayne, seeking vigilante justice against those who have harmed, or might be planning to harm, the United States. And, just to round things out, Obama has been accused by critics on the left and right of being a Kissingerian hyperrealist who is content to watch the Syrian regime crush its people, because, as tragic as that is, American interests there are minimal.
自从俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)豪夺克里米亚以来，保守派人士就谴责奥巴马总统，说他不懂得这是多么冷酷的一个“霍布斯世界”(Hobbesian world)。他是一位波利安娜——总在寻找人们身上的优点。同时，自由派一直说奥巴马有动辄使用无人机的习惯，曾下令针对数以百计的个人从空中实施“定点清除”，他们因此对他大加抨击；他是约翰·韦恩，会企图私自主持正义，向那些伤害过、或可能计划伤害美国的人下手。最后，为了不落下什么，左、右翼的批评人士都指责奥巴马展现出了基辛格式的超现实主义，乐于看着叙利亚政权镇压人民，因为现实虽然如此可悲，美国人却在叙利亚没有多少利益。
It can’t be easy being Pollyanna, John Wayne and Henry Kissinger all at once. So who is Obama — really — on foreign policy? I’d say less Pollyanna than his critics claim, more John Wayne and Henry Kissinger than he’d admit, but still undefined when it comes to the greatest leadership challenges in foreign policy — which go beyond Crimea but lurk just over the horizon.
要同时成为波利安娜、约翰·韦恩和亨利·基辛格一定不是件容易的事。那么奥巴马在外交政策上的真正面貌到底是怎样的？我想说，他不像批评人士所说的那么波利安娜，却比他自己承认的要更约翰·韦恩和亨利·基辛格，但是要说到外交政策上面临的最大的领导力考验——这不限于克里米亚问题，但却并不遥远——他的态度还依然模糊。
If Obama has been a reluctant warrior in Crimea, it’s because it’s long been part of Russia and home to a Russian naval base, with many of its people sympathetic to Russia. Obama was right to deploy the limited sanctions we have in response to Putin’s seizure of Crimea and try to coolly use diplomacy to prevent a wider war over Ukraine — because other forces are at play on Putin. Do not underestimate how much of a fool Putin will make of himself in Crimea this weekend — in front of the whole world — and how much this will blow back on Russia, whose currency and stock markets are getting hammered as a result of Vladimir’s Crimean adventure.
如果说奥巴马在克里米亚问题上是一个不情愿的勇士，那是因为这里曾长期属于俄罗斯，并建有一座俄罗斯海军基地，更有大量民众支持俄罗斯。针对普京对克里米亚的占领，奥巴马只是部署了我们所掌握的有限制裁手段，并竭力冷静地运用外交手段来防止就乌克兰问题出现更大范围的战争，因为也还有其他力量左右普京的决策。奥巴马这么做是对的。不要低估了，普京这个周末将会因为克里米亚问题而让自己在全世界面前显得多么愚蠢，而这又会如何再反过来从多大程度上影响俄罗斯。因为弗拉基米尔的克里米亚冒险，俄罗斯的汇率和股市正在遭受重创。
Putin has organized, basically overnight, a secession referendum on Crimea’s future — without allowing any time for the opposition to campaign. It’s being held under Russian military occupation, in violation of Ukraine’s Constitution, with effectively two choices on the ballot: “Vote 1 if you want to become part of Russia,” or “Vote 2 if you really want to become part of Russia.” This is not the action of a strong, secure leader. By Monday, it should have its own Twitter hashtag: #Putinfarce.
普京几乎是一夜之间就做好了安排，让人们就克里米亚未来“脱乌入俄”举行全民公投，没有给反对派留下任何行动的时间。公投的举行是在俄罗斯武力占领克里米亚的形势下举行的，违反了乌克兰的宪法，而人们在投票时实质上也只有两种选择：“选择一：你想成为俄罗斯人”，或者“选择二：你非常想成为俄罗斯人”。这绝非一位强大、自信的领导人的所作所为。在周一，它应该拥有自己的Twitter标签：#Putinfarce（普京闹剧）。
And if Obama has been a Kissingerian realist in his reluctance to dive into the Syrian civil war, or Ukraine, it’s because he has learned from Iraq and Afghanistan that the existence of bad guys in these countries doesn’t mean that their opponents are all good guys. Too many leaders in all these countries turned out to be more interested in using their freedom to loot rather than liberate. Where authentic reformers emerge in Syria or Ukraine we should help them, but, unlike Senator John McCain, most Americans are no longer willing to be suckers for anyone who just sings our song (see dictionary for Hamid Karzai), and they are now wary of owning the bailouts and gas bills of countries we don’t understand.
如果说奥巴马不愿卷入叙利亚内战和乌克兰问题，展现出了基辛格式的现实主义，那是因为他从伊拉克和阿富汗问题上学到了教训：虽然这些国家有坏人存在，但并不意味着这些坏人的对手就全都是好人。在所有这些国家里，都有太多的领导人最后对运用自由权力来劫掠展现了更大的兴趣，而不是用它来解放人民。在叙利亚和乌克兰，如果有真正的改革者出现，我们应该帮助他们，但是和参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)不同的是，多数美国人已不愿再轻信随便哪个对我们表现出附和态度的人（在字典中查哈米德·卡尔扎伊[Hamid Karzai]），他们现在对于将那些不甚了解的国家的紧急援助和天然气账单揽为自家事的做法十分警惕。
As for John Wayne Obama, “the quickest drone in the West,” every American president needs a little of that in today’s world, where you now have legions of superempowered angry people who wish America ill and who have access to rockets and live in ungoverned spaces.
在当今世界，如今有大量愤怒的人取得了强大的权力，希望美国遭遇厄运，他们拥有火箭，并生活在无法无天的空间。在此种情况下，每一位美国总统都会多少需要一些“西方最快无人机”约翰·韦恩·奥巴马那样的态度。
So I have no problem with Obama as John Wayne or Henry Kissinger. If you want to criticize or praise him on foreign policy, the real tests fall into two categories: 1) How good is he at leading from behind on Ukraine? And 2) How good is he at leading from in front on Russia, Iran and China?
因此，奥巴马扮演约翰·韦恩或亨利·基辛格我都没意见。如果想要在外交政策上批评或赞扬他，真正的考验可以归结为两类：一是在乌克兰问题上，他的幕后领导发挥得有多出色？二是在俄罗斯、伊朗和中国问题上，他在台前领导得有多好？
There is probably no saving Crimea from Putin in the short term, but we do not want to see him move beyond Crimea and absorb the parts of eastern Ukraine where the Russophones reside. We should be ready to offer arms to the Ukraine government to prevent that. But let us never lose sight of the fact that the key to keeping more of Ukraine out of Russia’s paws will depend on the ability of Ukrainians to come together in a way that is inclusive of both the majority that sees its future with the European Union and the minority of Russophones who still feel some affinity for Russia.
我们很可能短期内无法将克里米亚从普京手中拯救出来，但我们不希望看到他的活动范畴超越克里米亚，吞并俄语居民所在的乌克兰东部地区。为了阻止这一点，我们应当做好向乌克兰政府伸出援手的准备。不过，我们绝不能忽略的一个事实是，让乌克兰更多的区域脱离俄罗斯利爪的关键，将取决于乌克兰人能否团结起来，同时包容认为未来维系于欧盟的多数派与仍然多少亲近俄罗斯的少数派。
If the Ukraine drama pits a united Ukraine — seeking a noncorrupt democracy tied to Europe — against a Putin trying to forcibly reintegrate Ukraine into a Russian empire, Putin loses. But if Ukrainians are divided, if hyper-nationalist parties there dominate and pro-Russians are alienated, Putin will discredit the Ukraine liberation movement and use the divisions to justify his own interventions. Then our help will be useless. We can’t help them if they won’t help themselves. Ukrainians have already wasted a quarter-century not getting their act together the way Poland did.
如果这场乌克兰大戏演变为团结的乌克兰——寻求成为与欧洲关联的清廉民主国家——对抗试图强迫乌克兰重新融入俄罗斯帝国的普京，那么输的就是普京。可是，假如乌克兰人内部分裂，假如狂热的民族主义政党成为主流，而亲俄罗斯派被疏远，那么普京将会诋毁乌克兰解放运动，并利用这种分化来为自己的干预正名。那样的话，我们的协助将付之流水。不自救者不得救。乌克兰人已经蹉跎了四分之一个世纪，没能像波兰那样振作起来。