HONOLULU — President Obama said in a radio interview airing on Monday that Donald J. Trump, a leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination, is exploiting the resentment and anxieties of working-class men to boost his campaign. Mr. Obama also argued that some of the scorn directed at him personally stems from the fact that he is the first African-American to hold the White House.
檀香山——美国总统奥巴马在接受本周一播出的电台采访时表示，在共和党总统候选人提名竞争中领先的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)利用工薪阶层的不满和焦虑来抬升自己的竞选活动。奥巴马还指出，他个人遭受了一些嘲讽是因为，他是首位入主白宫的非裔美国人。
Demographic changes and economic stresses, including “flat-lining” wages and incomes, have meant that “particularly blue-collar men have had a lot of trouble in this new economy, where they are no longer getting the same bargain that they got when they were going to a factory and able to support their families on a single paycheck,” Mr. Obama said in the interview with National Public Radio.
人口结构的变化和经济的压力，包括“没有增长”的工资和收入，意味着“尤其是蓝领男性在这个新的经济时代遇到了很多困难，以前他们去工厂里工作，一个人的薪水就可以负担家庭开支，他们现在得不到那个年代的那种条件了”，奥巴马在接受全国公共广播电台（National Public Radio，简称NPR）采访时说。
“You combine those things, and it means that there is going to be potential anger, frustration, fear — some of it justified, but just misdirected,” the president added. “I think somebody like Mr. Trump is taking advantage of that. That’s what he’s exploiting during the course of his campaign.”
“这些东西叠加在一起，意味着潜在的愤怒、沮丧和恐惧——其中也有合乎情理的地方，但是被人带偏了，”奥巴马说。“我觉得特朗普正在利用这种情况。这就是他在竞选活动加以利用的东西。”
The comments were Mr. Obama’s most pointed response to Mr. Trump since the Republican candidate suggested that Muslims be barred from entering the United States after the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. The attack was carried out by a couple who apparently were radicalized Muslims, one of whom had entered the United States on a fiancée visa.
这是自特朗普建议禁止穆斯林进入美国之后，奥巴马对特朗普发起的最尖锐的回应。特朗普是在加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺发生持枪杀戮案后提出这个建议的。一对似乎属于激进穆斯林的夫妇犯下了那桩血案，其中一人凭借未婚妻签证入境美国。
In the wide-ranging interview, conducted the day before he left Washington on Friday for a two-week holiday vacation with his family in Hawaii, Mr. Obama defended his approach to taking on the Islamic State. He dismissed the notion that the militant group is an existential threat to the United States even as he conceded that he had received “legitimate criticism” for failing to adequately explain his strategy for confronting it.
这个采访是在上周五进行的，涉及了较多话题。之后奥巴马离开华盛顿，与家人前往夏威夷进行为期两周的休假。在采访中，奥巴马为自己在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)问题上采取的做法进行了辩护。有人认为激进组织对美国的威胁已经近在眼前，奥巴马对这个说法不以为然，尽管他也承认，由于未能充分解释自己针对伊斯兰国的战略，他受到了一些“合理的批评”。
He also described his view of the anxiety on which Mr. Trump has capitalized, arguing that some voters who voice fears about his presidency and doubts about where Mr. Obama’s loyalties lie are reacting to the fact that he is the first black president.
他还谈到了自己对特朗普利用的焦虑感的看法，说一些选民对自己担任总统表示担心，对自己的忠诚度感到怀疑，这其实是因为自己是美国历史上的首位黑人总统。
“If you are referring to specific strains in the Republican Party that suggest that somehow I’m different, I’m Muslim, I’m disloyal to the country, etc. — which unfortunately is pretty far out there, and gets some traction in certain pockets of the Republican Party, and that have been articulated by some of their elected officials — what I’d say there is that that’s probably pretty specific to me, and who I am and my background,” Mr. Obama told Steve Inskeep, the host of “Morning Edition” on NPR. “In some ways, I may represent change that worries them.”
“如果你指的是共和党某些人的看法，比如觉得我有所不同，我是穆斯林，我不忠于这个国家等等——不幸的是，这些说法四下流传，在共和党的某些金主那里得到了共鸣，他们的一些民选官员明确提到过这事——我要说的是，这可能是很有针对性地指向了我、我的身份、以及我的背景，“奥巴马对美国NPR电台节目“早间版(Morning Edition)”的主持人史蒂夫·英斯基普(Steve Inskeep)说。“在某些方面，我可能代表了他们担心的变化。”
“That’s not to suggest that everybody who objects to my policies may not have perfectly good reasons for it,” the president added. He noted, as an example, that voters living in coal-dependent areas may blame him for the loss of their jobs.
“并不是说反对我的政策的所有人可能都没有充分的理由，”奥巴马总统接着说。他举例指出，生活在依赖煤炭的地区的选民可能会怪他让他们丢了工作。
Mr. Obama has struggled to appeal to white voters who do not have a college education, carrying only 36 percent of them when he was re-elected in 2012. Republicans perform particularly well among that group, although it represents a shrinking share of the electorate.
奥巴马在没接受过大学教育的白人选民中间一直缺乏号召力。2012年成功连任时，他只获得了他们当中36%的选票。共和党在该群体的表现特别好，不过这个群体在全体选民中所占的比例在不断下滑。
On the Islamic State, which is also called ISIS or ISIL, Mr. Obama pushed back against criticism of his approach and said he was “confident that we are going to prevail.”
在又名ISIS或ISIL的伊斯兰国的问题上，奥巴马对自己的策略遭受的批评进行了反击，称他“相信我们会获胜”。
“This is a serious challenge — ISIS is a virulent, nasty organization that has gained a foothold in ungoverned spaces effectively in Syria and parts of western Iraq,” Mr. Obama said, referring to attacks the group organized in Paris and apparently inspired in San Bernardino. “But it is also important for us to keep things in perspective, and this is not an organization that can destroy the United States.”
“这是一个严峻的挑战，ISIS是一个有凶残、恶毒的组织，已经在叙利亚和伊拉克西部一些不受管制的地区站住了脚，”奥巴马说。他提到了该组织在巴黎组织的袭击，以及看起来是受该组织鼓舞的圣贝纳迪诺袭击。“但我们权衡事情的轻重缓急也很重要，这不是一个能摧毁美国的组织。”
He also suggested that heavy coverage of the media-savvy extremist group by news outlets chasing viewership had contributed to the public anxiety that has dragged down his approval ratings on the issue.
他还表示，追逐观众和读者的新闻机构对这个深谙媒体之道的极端组织的大量报道，是导致民众感到焦虑的原因之一。民众的焦虑拉低了奥巴马在这个问题上的民意支持率。
“If you’ve been watching television for the last month, all you have been seeing, all you have been hearing about is these guys with masks or black flags who are potentially coming to get you,” Mr. Obama said. “And so I understand why people are concerned about it.”
“过去一个月如果看电视的话，看得到和听到的全都是关于这些带着面罩、举着黑旗，可能会来加害于你的家伙，”奥巴马说。“因此，我理解人们为什么关心这个问题。”
Asked whether news organizations had been manipulated by the Islamic State, he added: “Look, the media is pursuing ratings. This is a legitimate news story.”
被问及新闻机构是否被伊斯兰国操纵了时，他接着表示：“你看，媒体是追求收视率的。而这是一个合理的新闻故事。”
He rejected critiques from Republican presidential candidates who have suggested “carpet bombing” the group, as well as the suggestion by Hillary Clinton, his party’s leading presidential candidate, that the United States establish a “no-fly zone” over Syria. He argued that doing so would require substantial ground troops and would fail to damage the Islamic State, which does not have an air force.
他否决了共和党总统候选人的评论和自己所在政党总统候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的建议。共和党总统候选人建议对该组织进行“地毯式轰炸”，处于领先的克林顿则建议美国在叙利亚上空设立“禁飞区”。奥巴马表示，这么做需要投入大量地面部队，并且无法对没有空军的伊斯兰国造成损害。
Still, the president said his administration had not done enough to explain its strategy and promote its successes in carrying it out.
但奥巴马总统表示，他的政府没能充分解释自己的战略，宣传在执行该战略的过程中所取得的成功。