WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama will use his State of the Union address to call on Congress to raise taxes and fees on the wealthiest taxpayers and the largest financial firms to finance an array of tax cuts for the middle class, pressing to reshape the tax code to help working families, administration officials said Saturday.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府官员周六透露，奥巴马总统将在国情咨文(State of the Union)演说中，呼吁国会对最富有的纳税人和规模最大的金融企业，提高税负和收费，从而为中产阶级提供一系列减税政策。奥巴马还会敦促改革税法，为工薪阶层的家庭提供帮助。
The proposal faces long odds in the Republican-controlled Congress, led by lawmakers who have long opposed raising taxes and who argue that doing so would hamper economic growth at a time the country cannot afford it.
在由共和党控制的国会里，这样的提议成为现实的可能性极低。领导国会的议员长期以来一直反对增税，他们还认为这样做会妨碍经济增长，现在美国承担不起那样的后果。
But the decision to present the plan duringTuesday'sspeech marks the start of a debate over taxes and the economy that will shape both Obama's legacy and the 2016 presidential campaign.
但是在周二的演说中提出这一计划的决定，标志着一场针对税收和经济的争论即将开始。这场争论将对奥巴马的政治遗产和2016年的总统选举产生重大影响。
The president's plan would raise $320 billion over the next decade, while adding new provisions cutting taxes by $175 billion over the same period. The revenue generated would also cover an initiative Obama announced this month, offering some students two years of tuition-free community college, which the White House has said would cost $60 billion over 10 years.
根据奥巴马的计划，未来10年将能筹集到3200亿美元（约合2万亿元人民币），同时还将加入新条款，从而在同一时期内减税1750亿美元。由此产生的收益也将用于奥巴马本月宣布的一项政策，即为一些学生提供为期两年的免费社区大学教育。白宫表示，未来10年中，该项目将耗资600亿美元。
The centerpiece of the plan, described by administration officialson the condition of anonymity in advance of the president's speech, would eliminate what Obama's advisers call the “trust-fund loophole,” a provision governing inherited assets that shields hundreds of billions of dollars in inherited assets from taxation each year. The plan would also increase the top capital-gains tax rate, to 28 percent from 15 percent, for couples with incomes above $500,000 annually.
政府官员在奥巴马发表演说前，在要求匿名的条件下表示，该计划的核心内容是消除奥巴马的顾问所说的“信托基金漏洞”。这是一项适用于继承财产的条款，在该条款的保护下，每年有数千亿美元的继承财产无需缴税。该计划还将提高资本利得税的最高税率，对于年收入在50万美元以上的夫妇，税率将从15%提高到28%。
Those changes and a new fee on banks with assets over $50 billion would be used to finance a set of tax breaks for middle-income earners, including a $500 credit for families in which both spouses work; increased child care and education credits; and incentives to save for retirement.
增加的税收，以及对资产超过500亿美元的银行收取的一项新费用，将被用于资助面向中产阶级的税收优惠，比如为夫妻双方都工作的家庭提供500美元的税收抵免，提高育儿和教育方面的税收抵免，并鼓励民众储蓄以备退休。
The initiative signals a turnabout for Obama, who has spoken repeatedly about the potential for a deal with Republicans on an overhaul of taxes paid by businesses but little about individual taxation, an area fraught with partisan disagreements.
该提议标志着奥巴马的转变。奥巴马曾多次提到可能与共和党就企业税改革达成妥协，但几乎不涉及个人税负，两党在这一议题上存在分歧。