VOI, Kenya — After spending their days digging in the red-clay earth to build a railroad between Nairobi and the sprawling port city of Mombasa, the Chinese workers here retreat to metal trailers surrounded by barbed wire and armed guards.
肯尼亚沃伊——白天，为了在内罗毕与港口大城市蒙巴萨之间修一条铁路，他们在红土地上进行挖掘作业。结束一天的工作后，这里的中国工人，回到了四周有铁丝网和武装守卫的金属房里。
Each morning as they file out and each evening as they trudge back, they are greeted by morale-boosting banners like the one hanging on the fence at this camp, which lies a few hours from Mombasa: “When you feel grateful, you become great, and eventually attract great things.”
每天早上鱼贯而出，晚上疲惫归来时，他们都会看到鼓舞士气的横幅。在这个距离蒙巴萨几小时路程的营地里，围栏上就挂着这样一条横幅，上面写着：“心怀感恩，立人筑业”。
It is just one of scores of worker camps around the country. Roads, office buildings, schools and major infrastructure projects across Kenya have been built by the Chinese, a pattern repeated in many parts of the continent.
这只是肯尼亚全国许多工人营地中的一个。肯尼亚各地的公路、办公楼、学校和大型基础设施项目，都是由中国人修建的。非洲大陆很多地方的建设也都是这一模式。
Trade between China and Africa, valued at $222 billion in 2014, has been rising swiftly and is now about three times the amount of trade between the United States and the African continent, according to figures from the World Bank and the American government.
2014年，中非贸易额达2220亿美元。来自世界银行和美国政府的数据显示，中非贸易一直在迅速增长，现在约是美国与非洲贸易额的三倍。
That is an imbalance President Obama hopes to start correcting.
奥巴马总统希望开始纠正这种不平衡。
Mr. Obama’s return to his father’s homeland on Friday was, of course, part of a presidential trip laden with great personal significance. Islamist extremism and security were to be another focus, given the growing threat Kenya faces from the Shabab, the Somali extremist group responsible for some 400 deaths there since 2011.
周五，奥巴马回到了他父亲的祖国。作为此次总统出访的一部分，这对他个人肯定具有重要意义。考虑到青年党(Shabab)对肯尼亚构成了日益加剧的威胁，伊斯兰极端主义和安全问题也将是一个重点。自2011年以来，索马里极端组织青年党已造成大约400人死亡。
But Mr. Obama’s trip also presents a unique opportunity to rebuild the strained relationship between Kenya and the United States, and central to accomplishing that will be shoring up the economic ties between the two nations in the face of competition by China.
但奥巴马此行也代表着一个修复肯尼亚与美国之间紧张关系的难得机会，而要实现这一点，最重要的是与中国展开竞争，增强美国与肯尼亚之间的经济往来。
Mr. Obama, speaking to the BBC, said China had been “able to funnel an awful lot of money into Africa, basically in exchange for raw materials that are being extracted from Africa.”
在接受BBC的采访时，奥巴马称中国一直“能向非洲输入大量资金，换取正在从非洲开采出来的原料”。
“What is certainly true is that the United States has to have a presence to promote the values that we care about,” he said.
“有一点是肯定的，美国必须参与进来，从而推进我们所重视的价值观，”他说。
Mr. Obama is in Kenya to play co-host to the first Global Entrepreneurship Summit in sub-Saharan Africa. Over the weekend, he is also expected to sign several “government to government” agreements making it easier for American companies to invest in Kenya.
奥巴马前往肯尼亚是为了共同主持首次在撒哈拉以南非洲举办的全球创业峰会(Global Entrepreneurship Summit)。根据预期，他还会在周末签署几项“政府间”协议，让美国企业在肯尼亚的投资更为便利。
That could help shape a deal involving a consortium of private American firms that is under negotiation, potentially laying the groundwork for one of the largest Western investments in infrastructure projects in Kenya’s history.
这可能有助于促成一宗交易，其中涉及一个由美国私营企业组成的财团。这宗交易可能会为将来的一笔巨额投资奠定基础，那将是西方在肯尼亚历史上规模最大的基础设施投资之一。
“This is a mega-project and it will be a game changer for this region,” said Issa Timamy, the governor of Lamu County, along the Kenyan coast.
“这是一个大项目，会改变地区的格局，”位于肯尼亚沿海地区的拉木县县长伊萨·提马米(Issa Timamy)说。
The economic thrust is part of a broader effort to strengthen a relationship that was forged during the Cold War but has become tense in recent years.
推动经济是增强两国关系的广泛行动的一部分。美国与肯尼亚之间的关系建立于冷战期间，近年来变得紧张。
In 2007, just before Mr. Obama took office, more than 1,000 people died and 600,000 people were displaced from their homes during election-related violence in Kenya.
2007年，就在奥巴马上台前，肯尼亚发生了与选举有关的暴力事件，造成1000多人死亡，60万人流离失所。
The current Kenyan president, Uhuru Kenyatta, was charged by the International Criminal Court with helping to orchestrate and finance the violence.
肯尼亚现任总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)被国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)指控参与策划和资助了当时的暴力事件。
When Mr. Kenyatta ran for president in 2013, American officials did not hold their tongues. The Obama administration’s top official for Africa at the time issued a veiled warning, reminding Kenyans that “choices have consequences.”
肯雅塔2013年竞选总统时，美国官员没有沉默。当时，奥巴马政府负责非洲事务的最高官员发出含蓄的警告，提醒肯尼亚人“选择都是有后果的”。
When Mr. Kenyatta took office, he pointedly said it was time for Kenya to look east instead of west. He chose to go to Beijing and Moscow on his first trip out of the country.
上台后，肯雅塔针锋相对地表示，肯尼亚是时候往东边，而不是往西边看了。首次出访时，他选择了北京和莫斯科。
But circumstances have changed considerably since then. In September 2013, gunmen stormed a fancy shopping mall in Nairobi, killing dozens of civilians in an attack claimed by the Shabab on a gleaming symbol of Kenya’s prosperity.
但自那时以来，形势已经发生了大变化。2013年9月，持枪者突袭内罗毕一家高档购物中心，造成数十名平民死亡。该购物中心是肯尼亚繁荣的光辉象征。事后，青年党宣称对袭击负责。
The United States, viewing the siege as a direct threat to Western tourists and even as a possible prelude to similar attacks on American soil, helped investigate and continued its assaults on the Shabab in Somalia.
美国认为那场围攻是对西方游客的直接威胁，甚至可能是美国本土发生类似袭击的前奏。美国对调查给予了帮助，并继续在索马里打击青年党。
Then the charges against Mr. Kenyatta at the international court were dropped, frustrating human rights advocates but reducing the diplomatic tensions of working with a head of state who was on trial for crimes against humanity.
后来，国际刑事法院撤销了对肯雅塔的指控。此事令人权倡导人士感到失望，但却减少了与一名面临反类人罪审判的国家领导人合作时的外交摩擦。
The two countries are working closely to counter Islamist extremism, and Western officials say that the relationship is greatly improved.
眼下，两国正在就打击伊斯兰极端主义展开密切合作。西方官员称，双方关系得到了极大改善。
Now American officials and investors are focusing on another front: trying to compete with China in the race to do business in Africa.
现在，美国官员和投资者关注的是另一条战线：与中国竞争，和非洲国家发展经贸关系。
The multibillion-dollar deal being negotiated, which involves major American companies like Bechtel, includes construction of a new port in Lamu, a pipeline to connect it with the oil fields of Kenya and Uganda, an 880-megawatt natural gas power plant, and a railway from the port that would connect to existing rails in Nairobi and then stretch to Ethiopia and South Sudan.
正在谈判中的协议价值数十亿美元，涉及柏克德(Bechtel)等美国大公司，包括在拉木县建设一个新港口，并修建一条连接拉木和肯尼亚及乌干达油田的管道、一座880兆瓦的天然气发电站，以及一条从拉木港口出发，在内罗毕接入现有路网，然后再向埃塞俄比亚和南苏丹延伸的铁路。
It would be an enormously complicated undertaking, and even people involved in the project cautioned that the deal is not done until it is formally signed. But a project of this scale would affect the lives of millions of people not just in Kenya, but across East Africa.
这会是一项极其复杂的任务，就连参与该项目的人都告诫称，除非正式签署，否则协议就不算敲定。但这种规模的项目会影响肯尼亚，乃至整个东非数百万人的生活。
The hope is that the deal will also provide a model for future cooperation by the American government, the private sector and developing nations on large-scale infrastructure projects.
人们希望这项协议也能为美国政府、私营部门和发展中国家未来在大型基础设施项目上的合作提供一个范本。
There have been months of fierce negotiations and strong competition from the Chinese, but Mr. Timamy, the governor of Lamu, said everything was in place for an announcement timed to coincide with Mr. Obama’s visit.
激烈的谈判已进行了数月，并且遇到了来自中国的激烈竞争。但拉木县县长提马米表示，一切都已到位，就等着宣布了。宣布协议的时间被定在奥巴马到访时。
“This shows the improvement in relations between Kenya and the U.S.,” he said. “For a while relations there — relations were a bit fraught. This is a new beginning for Kenya and our traditional ally, the U.S., and other Western countries.”
“这表明肯尼亚和美国之间的关系有所改善，”他说。“有一段时间，两国关系有点紧张。对肯尼亚和我们的传统盟友美国，以及其他西方国家来说，这是一个新的开始。”
Improving security in Kenya and the region has also been a central concern in the negotiations surrounding the new port, pipeline, rail and power plant project, often referred to as “the American package.”
前述新港口、管道、铁路和发电站项目通常被称作“美国套装”。在围绕该计划的谈判中，改善肯尼亚和该地区的安全局势也是一个核心问题。
In April, an assault claimed by the Shabab on a Kenyan university in the town of Garissa left about 150 people dead. In June 2014, militants attacked in Lamu County, killing at least 60 people.
4月，肯尼亚加里萨镇一所大学遭遇袭击，大约150人遇害。青年党称对袭击负责。2014年6月，武装分子在拉木县发动袭击，导致至少60人丧生。
There is hope that investment in the rural communities will spur economic growth, diminishing the appeal of radicals.
人们希望对农村社区的投资能刺激经济增长，降低激进分子的吸引力。
Often, big projects in Africa have reaped windfalls for outside companies, with little return for residents. Mr. Timamy argued that through bitter experience, people here know better now.
通常，非洲的大项目会让外来企业获得暴利，当地居民却几乎得不到什么回报。提马米称，有过痛苦的经历之后，人们现在更清醒了。
“This is not the Africa of the ’50s, ’60s, ’70s or even ’80s,” he said.
“这已经不再是50年代、60年代、70年代甚至80年代的非洲了，”他说。
The package includes elements intended to have a positive social impact through programs involving education, clean water and, ultimately, local employment.
“美国套装”包含的一些元素，旨在通过涉及教育、清洁的水，并最终带动当地就业的项目，来产生积极的社会影响。
Part of the appeal of the project to the Kenyan government is that it will not require Kenya to invest any funds or take on debt. It is supposed to be financed entirely by the private sector.
对肯尼亚政府来说，该项目的部分吸引力在于，它不会要求肯尼亚投入任何资金或承担任何债务。根据预期，该项目将全部由私营部门出资。
The agreement, according to people familiar with the negotiations, would commit the Kenyan government to work with a Kenyan developer, Aeolus Kenya Ltd., and the international companies with whom it has signed letters of agreement.
据了解谈判情况的人士介绍，协议要求肯尼亚政府与肯尼亚开发商Aeolus Kenya Ltd.及外国企业合作。肯尼亚政府已同相关公司签署了协议书。
Gerrishon K. Ikiara, an economist at Nairobi University and a former permanent secretary to the minister of transport, said it was often much more complicated working with Western companies than with the Chinese.
内罗毕大学经济学者、前运输部长常务秘书格里肖恩·K·伊基亚拉(Gerrishon K. Ikiara)说，和西方公司合作，常常要比和中国合作复杂得多。
“China does not concern themselves with a lot of local issues and politics,” he said. As a result, he said, deals can be negotiated relatively quickly.
他说，“中国对很多当地的问题和政治不感兴趣。”他表示，于是就能相对快速地把协议谈妥。
China, he said, also completes projects on time.
他说，而且中国也会按时完成项目。