WASHINGTON — As President Obama listens to assessments of his foreign policy these days, he grows deeply frustrated. Syria? Ukraine? Afghanistan? What more do his critics want him to do? Get into another war? Keep fighting one that has already become America’s longest?
华盛顿——当奥巴马总统听到外界如今对其外交政策发表的评价时，他深感沮丧。叙利亚、乌克兰？阿富汗？他的批评者还想让他做什么？卷入另一场战争吗？还是说继续维持一场已然是美国历史上耗时最长的战争？
After more than five years in office, Mr. Obama has become increasingly convinced that while the United States must play a vital role beyond its borders, it should avoid getting dragged into the quicksand of international crises that have trapped some of his predecessors. It is time for an end to what he called “a long season of war.”
在执政五年多后，奥巴马已日益确信，就算美国必须在本土之外扮演重要的角色，它也应该避免陷入国际危机的泥沼中，不去重蹈一些前任的覆辙。是时候终结他所说的“漫长的战争季”了。
To his critics, mainly on the right but also some on the left, this is a prescription for passivity, an abrogation of decades of bipartisan leadership on the world stage. Stung and irritated, Mr. Obama used his commencement address to West Point cadets on Wednesday to mount a sustained rebuttal and to define an approach to foreign policy that he believes is suited to a new era and that he hopes will outlast his presidency.
他的批评者主要来自右翼，也有一些左翼，对他们而言，奥巴马开出的是一副消极的处方，它废除了美国两党在国际舞台上持续了数十年的领导角色。被激怒的奥巴马在周三利用他在西点军校(West Point)学员毕业典礼上的演讲，对批评之声发起了大篇幅的反驳，他还定义了自己的外交政策方针，他认为，这些政策是适合新纪元的，希望在他离任后依然能够延续下去。
“This is an attempt to come up with an Obama doctrine that looks at how do we think about the world now that the war against the Taliban and its allies is won,” said Peter L. Bergen, a national security scholar at the New America Foundation and one of several foreign policy specialists invited to lunch with Mr. Obama this week. “A policy of judicious restraint is not very stirring and doesn’t lend itself to strong rhetoric, but it may be the most sensible approach and is certainly where the American public is.”
“这是在尝试提出一个“奥巴马主义”，在赢得了对塔利班(Taliban)及其盟友的战争后，它关心的是我们该如何看待这个世界，”新美国基金会(New America Foundation)国家安全学者彼得·L·伯根(Peter L. Bergen)说，他是受邀于本周和奥巴马共进午餐的几名外交政策专家之一。“明智的克制政策不是很激动人心，也不适合用凌厉的言辞去表达，然而，它或许是最妥当的方针，而且无疑体现了美国的民意。”
Mr. Obama framed the debate on his own terms at West Point, presenting himself as the steward of a reasonable balance between isolationism and unilateralism. He tried, as he often does, to capture a middle ground of sorts. He even played to both sides with his language, using the phrases “indispensable nation,” a favorite of Democrats during the Clinton administration, and “American exceptionalism,” a favorite of Republicans ever since.
在西点军校，奥巴马给这场辩论设定了框架，他把自己塑造成一名在孤立主义和单边主义之间保持着合理平衡的管理者。和往常一样，他试图俘获中间派的心。甚至在措辞上，他都采取了二者兼顾的方式，他既用了民主党人在克林顿(Clinton)时期喜好的习语“不可或缺的民族”，也用了共和党一向青睐的术语“美国例外论”。
But the commander in chief who in his first term waged a relentless drone campaign against terrorists and dispatched the Navy Seals who killed Osama bin Laden seemed more intent on setting the bar higher for future use of force.
不过，作为三军统帅，奥巴马似乎更致力于为日后动用武力设置更高的标准，他在第一任期内对恐怖主义者发动了持续的无人机攻击，派遣海豹突击队(Navy Seals)击毙了奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)。
By pulling troops out of Afghanistan by the end of 2016, much as he already has done in Iraq, he noted that he will have ended America’s involvement in two wars. By training and equipping regional allies, he is increasingly turning the war with terrorists over to them.
奥巴马指出，和他之前把美军撤出伊拉克一样，他将在2016年年底前，把美军撤出阿富汗，由此使美国不再参与这两场战争。他将通过为区域盟友提供训练和装备，逐渐把美国和恐怖分子的战争移交到盟友手中。
In the future, when the United States is not directly threatened, “the threshold for military action must be higher,” Mr. Obama said. He presented the choice in binary terms, suggesting that his critics want to use force to solve many of the world’s troubles.
奥巴马说，有朝一日，当美国不再受到直接威胁时，“军事行动的门槛必须要提得更高。”他用非此即彼的二元论来表述这个选择，暗示他的批评者想用武力解决全球的许多麻烦。
In some ways, that was a straw-man argument, since even his fiercest opponents do not advocate American ground forces to counter Russian intervention in Ukraine or to stop the civil war in Syria. But some critics say Mr. Obama seems to have grown more allergic to American power since his own intervention in Libya yielded a messy outcome.
从某些方面看，这是在偷换概念，因为即使是他最激烈的反对者，也不会主张美国动用地面部队去对抗俄罗斯对乌克兰的入侵行动，抑或去阻止叙利亚的内战。不过，一些批评者表示，自奥巴马对利比亚的干预导致了混乱的结局以来，他似乎对美国动用军力有点过于敏感。
At West Point, Mr. Obama noted that four cadets who were in the audience for his first address there in December 2009 when he announced a troop buildup in Afghanistan were subsequently killed in the war, and others were injured. “I believe America’s security demanded those deployments,” he said. “But I am haunted by those deaths. I am haunted by those wounds.”
在西点军校，奥巴马指出，有四名学员曾在2009年12月听过他在西点发表的第一次演讲，他们后来在阿富汗战争中被杀了，还有一些听过那次演讲的学员则受了伤，他在那次演讲中宣布，美国将向阿富汗增兵。他说，“我认为，美国的安全需要这种部署。死者令我难以释怀。伤者也令我难以释怀。”
“I would betray my duty to you, and to the country we love,” he added, “if I ever sent you into harm’s way simply because I saw a problem somewhere in the world that needed to be fixed or because I was worried about critics who think military intervention is the only way for America to avoid looking weak.”
他还说，“如果仅仅是因为我在全球其他地方看到了需要解决的问题，或者是因为我担心受到批评者的指责，我就要把你们送入险境，那我就辜负了你们赋予我的职责，辜负了我们热爱的国家赋予我的职责，那些批评者认为，美国要想不给人留下软弱的感觉，唯有通过军事干预。”
He did not convince his critics. Peter D. Feaver, a former aide to President George W. Bush and a professor of political science at Duke University, said the speech seemed “highly partisan and defensive in tone.”
他没有说服他的批评者。杜克大学(Duke University)政治学教授、曾任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府助手的彼得·D·菲弗(Peter D. Feaver)说，此次演讲的“语气”似乎“具有鲜明的党派立场和辩解意味。”
Richard N. Haass, who also worked in the Bush administration only to break with it over the Iraq war, said the speech tried to “split the difference” between those who think America is doing too much and those who think it is doing too little. “But it didn’t articulate a rationale for what we should be doing,” said Mr. Haass, now president of the Council on Foreign Relations.
理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N. Haass)也曾在布什政府内任职，直到在伊拉克战争的问题上产生分歧，他说，此次演讲试图“区分”两类人之间的“差异”，一类是那些认为美国做得太多的人，另一类是那些认为美国做得太少的人。“然而，演讲没有为我们现在应该怎么做提供一个合理的理由。”哈斯说，他是外交关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)的现任主席。
R. Nicholas Burns, who was under secretary of state for Mr. Bush, was more impressed, calling the speech “sincere and well said.” He added: “He’s right to say it’s now time to return to normalcy and he set the bar for military action appropriately at a very high level.”
布什时期的助理国务卿R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R. Nicholas Burns)对此次演讲留下了更好的印象，他称此次演讲是“诚恳的，讲的不错。”他还说，“总统说，现在是时候恢复常态了，他是对的，他恰如其分地把军事行动的门槛设在了一个非常高的高度。”
The speech has been in the works for weeks and allowed the president to express the vexation he has been feeling lately. During an Asia trip last month, he lashed out at critics and described a restrained approach with a baseball analogy, saying he focused on hitting singles and doubles, rather than home runs. He used a private lunch with foreign policy scholars on Tuesday to push back against critics further and defended the metaphor.
此次演讲已经准备了数周，它让总统得以对最近一直头疼的烦心事表达了自己的见解。在上个月的亚洲之行中，他斥责了批评者，用棒球做类比阐述了克制性的外交方针，他说，他更侧重于一垒安打和二垒安打，而不是全垒打。周二，他利用私下里和外交政策学者共进午餐的机会，进一步反驳了批评者，为前述类比做了辩解。
At times during his Wednesday speech, Mr. Obama seemed to be responding directly to one critic, Robert Kagan, whose long cover story in The New Republic titled “Superpowers Don’t Get to Retire” argued against a retreat from America’s post-World War II leadership.
在周三的演讲中，奥巴马似乎间或对某一批评者作出了直接回应，此人是罗伯特·卡根(Robert Kagan)，他在《新共和》(The New Republic)杂志上刊登了一篇名为《超级大国休想退休》(Superpowers Don’t Get to Retire)的长篇封面报道，提出反对美国卸下在二战(World War II)后领导全球的职责。
Mr. Obama said interventionists on the left and right argue “that America’s willingness to apply force around the world is the ultimate safeguard against chaos and America’s failure to act in the face of Syrian brutality or Russian provocations not only violates our conscience, but invites escalating aggression in the future.”
奥巴马说，来自左右两派的干预主义者辩称，“美国愿意在全球动用武力的立场，是防范混乱的终极保证，美国在面对叙利亚的暴行或俄罗斯的挑衅时的不作为，不仅违背了我们的良心，而且还会招致日后出现更严重的侵略行为。”