WASHINGTON — Seeking to repair relations with a longtime ally at a time of spreading war in the Middle East, President Obama on Tuesday lifted an arms freeze against Egypt that he first imposed after the military overthrow of the country’s democratically elected government nearly two years ago.
华盛顿——在中东地区战火蔓延之际，为了修复与长期盟友之间的关系，本周二，美国总统奥巴马解除了对埃及的暂时武器禁运。暂时禁运大约始于两年前，原因是埃及军方推翻了该国的民选政府。
Mr. Obama cleared the way for the delivery of F-16 aircraft, Harpoon missiles and M1A1 Abrams tanks, weapons prized by Egyptian leaders, who have smoldered at the suspension. In a telephone call, Mr. Obama assured President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt that he will support the full $1.3 billion in annual military assistance the Cairo government traditionally receives, even as others seek to cut it, the White House said.
奥巴马为F-16战机、鱼叉导弹和M1A1“艾布拉姆斯”坦克的交付扫清了道路。埃及领导人很重视这些武器，暂停交付曾让他们郁闷不已。白宫表示，在通电话时，奥巴马对埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)说，他将支持向开罗政府全额支付其历来接收的13亿美元年度军事援助，即使有人试图削减它。
The decision signaled a trade-off for a president who has spoken in support of democracy and human rights, and yet finds himself in need of friends at a volatile time in a bloody part of the world. The White House made no effort to assert that Egypt has made the “credible progress” toward democracy that Mr. Obama initially demanded when he halted the arms deliveries in October 2013. Instead, the decision was justified as being “in the interest of U.S. national security,” as the White House put it in a statement.
这一决定体现了奥巴马对事情的权衡取舍，他曾发言支持民主和人权，但现在他发现，在一个动荡时期，在一个发生流血冲突的地区，自己需要朋友。白宫没有做出任何努力来表明埃及取得了走向民主的“可信进展”，而这是奥巴马最初在2013年10月停止交付武器时所提出的要求。白宫只是在一份声明中说，这个决定是合理的，因为它“对美国国家安全有利”。
Administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity to describe internal deliberations, said the timing of the move was not directly related to the swirling crosscurrents now roiling the Middle East, including the widening conflict in Yemen, the rise of extremism in Libya, the battle with the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq or the possible nuclear deal with Iran.
一些美国政府官员称，做出这个决定的时机与中东现在逆流涌动的状况——包括不断扩大的也门冲突，极端主义在利比亚的崛起，在叙利亚和伊拉克与伊斯兰国(IS)进行的战斗，或者有望与伊朗达成的核协议——没有直接关系。因为涉及内部讨论，这些官员不愿具名。
But they said the broader perils of the region, particularly militant attacks in the Sinai Peninsula, played an indirect role. “Given that higher level of threat, we felt it particularly important to make sure Egypt had all of the equipment it could possibly need to defend itself from these threats,” said one of the officials.
但他们说，该地区更广泛的危险起到了间接作用，尤其是武装分子在西奈半岛发起的袭击。“鉴于威胁级别的提升，我们认为，要确保埃及拥有所有它可能需要的装备，以保护该国不受这些威胁的危害，这一点特别重要，”一名官员说。
Beyond Sinai, Egypt finds itself facing multiple security issues. In February, Egypt conducted an airstrike against Islamic militants in Libya in retaliation for the beheadings of a group of Egyptian Christians. Egypt has also said it would send ground troops into Yemen if necessary to support the Saudi-led operation against Iranian-backed Houthi rebels. And Egyptian leaders agreed in concept to create a combined military force with other Arab states.
除西奈半岛之外，埃及还面临着其他多重安全问题。之前，利比亚的伊斯兰武装分子斩首了一批埃及基督徒，今年2月，埃及采取报复行动，对他们实施了空袭。埃及也表示将在必要时派遣地面部队进入也门，以支持沙特领导的行动，打击伊朗支持的胡塞叛军。埃及领导人已在原则上同意与其他阿拉伯国家组建联合军事力量。
Mr. Obama’s move will release 12 F-16 fighter jets, 20 Harpoon missiles and up to 125 M1A1 Abrams tanks that Egypt had previously paid for but have been held up since 2013. The F-16s are especially important to Egyptian leaders, who have bitterly raised the issue with American counterparts at nearly every opportunity.
奥巴马此举将交付12架F-16战斗机、20枚鱼叉导弹，以及最多达125辆M1A1“艾布拉姆斯”坦克。这批武器埃及之前已经付款，但自2013年以来就一直被扣。F-16战机对于埃及领导人尤为重要，他们几乎一有机会就会不满地向美国官员提出这个问题。
Intended or not, experts said Mr. Obama’s decision would be interpreted as an effort by Washington to bolster a fragile position in the region. “The U.S. is facing quite a few challenges and it needs to shore up relations with allies,” said Steven Simon, a former Middle East adviser to Mr. Obama. “The assistance to Egypt was always predicated on its foreign policy, not its domestic policy. That was certainly the Egyptian understanding of it.”
专家说，无论奥巴马的本意如何，他的决定都会被解释为华盛顿在强化美国在该地区的薄弱地位。“美国正面临不少的挑战，它需要巩固与盟友的关系，”奥巴马的前中东事务顾问史蒂文·西蒙(Steven Simon)说。“对埃及的援助始终建立在其外交政策，而不是国内政策上。这肯定是埃及人对此的理解。”
Other experts and human rights advocates, however, said Mr. Obama had effectively capitulated to Mr. Sisi, a former general who helped lead the military overthrow of President Mohamed Morsi in 2013 and then won the presidency in an election tainted by wide-scale arrests of opposition figures. They compared Mr. Obama’s decision to lift the arms freeze to past instances when he did not live up to his own words, citing the “red line” he drew against Syrian use of chemical weapons in its civil war.
但是，其他专家和人权倡导者说，奥巴马相当于是向塞西屈服。塞西曾是军方将领，2013年时他协助领导军方，推翻了前总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的政府，然后大规模逮捕反对派人士，在一场不公正的选举中当选了埃及总统。这些专家和人权倡导者将奥巴马解除军售冻结的决定和他过去的几次食言记录相提并论，比如他反对叙利亚内战使用化学武器时所说的“红线”。
“Unsurprisingly, in this case you see that national security priorities, broadly defined, trump virtually everything else,” said Sarah Margon, the Washington director of Human Rights Watch. “And that’s a very myopic, short-term approach to fighting terrorism. Human rights abuses are actually a very bad counterterrorism strategy.”
“不足为奇的是，在这次的事件中，你看到他们把宽泛定义的国家安全要务当成重中之重，几乎超过了其他一切，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)华盛顿总监莎拉·玛尔根(Sarah Margon)说。“在打击恐怖主义时，这是一个非常短视、短期的做法。侵犯人权的做法其实是一种非常糟糕的反恐战略。”
According to Human Rights Watch and an Egyptian group called the Arab Network for Human Rights Information, the Egyptian authorities arrested more than 40,000 people after Mr. Sisi’s removal of Mr. Morsi and have never provided a full accounting of the detentions.
人权观察和一个名叫阿拉伯人权信息网络(Arab Network for Human Rights Information)的埃及团体表示，塞西罢黜穆尔西之后，埃及当局逮捕了4万多人，而且从来没有对这些人的拘留状况予以过详细解释。
Mr. Sisi’s government has cracked down on nongovernmental organizations that take foreign money and authorized military courts to hold mass trials in terrorism cases that the rights groups call a way of suppressing protesters.
塞西政府对那些从外国获得资金的非政府组织进行了打压，还授权军事法庭对恐怖主义案件进行大规模审判。人权团体表示，这些是镇压抗议者的手段。
Amy Hawthorne, a senior fellow at the Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East at the Atlantic Council in Washington, said the decision will be seen as a victory by Egyptians who wore down American resistance.
华盛顿大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)拉菲克·哈里里中东中心(Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East)的高级研究员艾米·霍桑(Amy Hawthorne)说，那些拖垮美国对抗意愿的埃及人，将把奥巴马的这个决定视为胜利。
“This isn’t their intention, but it will be read by Sisi as acceptance of his legitimacy and a desire to satisfy his demands in their relationship,” she said. “I’m still trying to understand how do our concerns factor in.”
“这不是他们的本意，但塞西会将其解读为美国接受了自己的合法性，并愿意满足他在美埃关系中的要求，”她说。“我仍在试图弄清，我们的关注点占据何等地位”。
Mr. Obama’s decision does include elements that may irritate Mr. Sisi, however. Until now, Egypt and Israel were the only countries permitted to buy American arms by drawing credit from future foreign aid. Mr. Obama said he will halt that for Egypt, barring it from drawing in advance money expected in the 2018 fiscal year and beyond. He will also channel future military aid to four categories — counterterrorism, border security, maritime security and Sinai security — rather than give Egypt broad latitude to decide how to use it.
奥巴马的决定也包含了一些可能会惹恼塞西的元素。迄今为止，世界上只有埃及和以色列这两个国家可以提前支取以后的外援额度，来购买美国武器。奥巴马说，他将停止为埃及提供这种待遇，让该国无法从2018财年及以后的额度中提前支取资金。他还将把未来军事援助引导到四类用途上——反恐、边境安全、海上安全和西奈半岛的安全——让埃及对这些资金不再享有宽松的支配权。