ISE, Japan — Eleven United States presidents have been elected since President Harry S. Truman decided to drop an atomic weapon on Hiroshima, and none has set foot in that traumatized city in the 71 years since, at least not while in office.
日本伊势——自从哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)总统决定在广岛投下原子弹以来，美国已经又选出了11位总统，这71年里，没有任何一个美国总统踏足那个饱受创伤的城市，至少在任期内没有。
President Obama intends to end that streak with his visit on Friday, a decision that speaks volumes not only about his presidency but also about the increasingly worrisome struggle among powers great and small in East Asia.
奥巴马总统打算给这种状态划上句号，本周五他将前往广岛访问，这个决定不仅是奥巴马总统生涯的有力注脚，也清楚展现了东亚大小国家之间日益令人担心的争斗。
Mr. Obama’s predecessors had good reasons to avoid Hiroshima. None wanted to be seen by American voters as apologizing for a decision that many historians even today believe, on balance, saved lives. And there were worries about how such a visit would be viewed in China, South Korea and other countries in Asia that suffered from the brutal World War II killing machine that was Imperial Japan.
奥巴马的前任对广岛采取回避态度是有充分原因的。即便在今天也有很多历史学家认为，核轰炸的决定总的来说挽救了生命，没人希望美国选民把访问广岛视为一种道歉。有人担心中、韩和其他亚洲国家会怎么看待这次访问，因为在残酷的二战中，日本帝国这台杀人机器在这些国家展开了屠戮。
But Mr. Obama and his closest aides have become increasingly disdainful of what they view as Washington’s conventional wisdom.
但在奥巴马及其最亲密助手眼中，华盛顿传统智慧的份量正在日益削弱。
No American president had visited Cuba in nearly 90 years. Mr. Obama did. None had visited Myanmar. He has gone twice. Few saw merit in negotiating with Iran’s autocratic mullahs. Mr. Obama struck a nuclear deal with the Iranians that he ranks among his greatest accomplishments. And in Vietnam this week, he lifted a decades-old embargo on military sales.
在近90年的时间里，没有美国总统访问过古巴。奥巴马去了。也没有任何美国总统访问过缅甸。奥巴马已经去了两次。几乎没有人认为有必要与专制的伊朗毛拉们进行谈判。奥巴马与伊朗达成了核协议，而且认为这是自己最大的成就之一。本周他出访越南，解除了有几十年历史的对越武器禁运。
Mr. Obama has made clear that he will not apologize for the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but with no election left for himself, he cares far less about opponents who have caricatured as an “apology tour” of foreign cities.
奥巴马已经明确表示，他不会对轰炸广岛和长崎表示道歉，但他已经不再需要参加选举，也远远无需再在意那些讽刺他去外国城市做“道歉之旅”的对手了。
Mr. Obama also hopes a visit to Hiroshima will further his efforts to curb the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons, a signature issue for him and an important reason he won the 2009 Nobel Prize.
奥巴马还希望广岛之行能推动他遏制全球核武器储备的努力，这是他格外关心的问题，也是他2009年赢得诺贝尔奖的重要原因。
“As the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral responsibility to act,” he said in Prague just 10 weeks after becoming president.
“作为唯一使用过核武器的核国家，美国在道义上有采取行动的责任，”他就任总统刚刚10周后就在布拉格说。
In a recent interview with Japanese TV, Mr. Obama admitted that his efforts to reduce the world’s nuclear risks had resulted in only “modest progress in at least not seeing a huge increase in nuclear stockpiles.” His record on nuclear nonproliferation is mixed.
近期在接受日本电视台采访时，奥巴马承认，他减少全球核威胁的努力成果有限，仅仅是“没有出现核储备的大幅增加”。他在核不扩散方面的作为也是好有坏。
With Russia, he struck a deal ratified in 2010 to limit weapons, but President Vladimir V. Putin has shown no signs of wanting to go further. Under the 2015 deal with Iran, the government there surrendered nearly all of its nuclear material. And Mr. Obama’s annual Nuclear Security Summit meetings and other efforts succeeded in pulling bomb-grade nuclear fuel out of countries like Ukraine and Chile. But his push to modernize the American nuclear weapons stockpile could cause a new arms race, and nuclear weapons programs in North Korea and Pakistan have arguably made the world less safe during his tenure.
2010年，他与俄罗斯达成了一项限制武器的协议，但俄总统普京没有表现出任何想要走得更远的迹象。根据2015年与伊朗签订的协议，伊朗政府几乎交出了全部核材料。奥巴马的核安全年度峰会和其他努力，也成功地清除了乌克兰和智利等国的武器级核燃料。但他推动美国核武器储备现代化，可能会导致新的军备竞赛，而且在他担任总统期间，朝鲜和巴基斯坦的核武器计划都可以说让世界变得更加不安全了。
“North Korea is the worst example, but we also have other parts of the world where you’re still seeing the development of new nuclear technologies that could be very dangerous,” Mr. Obama said this week.
“朝鲜是最糟糕的例子，但世界上还有其他地方，你可以看到他们在研制新的核技术，可能非常危险，”奥巴马本周表示。
The calculus about how a visit to Hiroshima would be seen elsewhere in Asia has changed. Although an estimated 40,000 to 50,000 Koreans were killed in the two bombings in 1945 — more than any non-Japanese ethnic group — Koreans have long been wary of a presidential trip to Hiroshima, fearing it could be interpreted as an apology for a war that ended Japan’s occupation of Korea.
至于亚洲其他地区如何看待广岛之行，这方面的考量已经有了变化。虽然大约有4到5万韩国人在1945年的两次核轰炸中丧命——人数是非日本族群中最多的——韩国长期以来一直对美国总统访问广岛心怀警惕，担心此举可能被解释为对一场战争的道歉；那场战争结束了日本对韩国的占领状态。
More broadly, there is unease in South Korea, China and other Asian countries that Mr. Obama’s visit will amount to an endorsement of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to move Japan beyond guilt over its militarist past and toward his vision of a “normal country” with a larger role in global affairs.
更广泛地说，韩国、中国和其他亚洲国家对奥巴马访问广岛感到不安，觉得此举是对日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的行动的认可，安倍晋三正在努力消除日本对军国主义时代的内疚感，朝着他构想的“正常国家”迈进，在全球事务中发挥更大作用。
Mr. Abe has promoted a version of history that downplays Japan’s wartime transgressions, and has moved to give the military limited powers to fight in foreign conflicts, shedding pacifist constraints in place since World War II.
安倍晋三提倡一种淡化日本战时暴行的历史叙述，努力让日本军队摆脱二战之后遭受的和平主义限制，获得参与国外冲突的权力。
Pressed by Washington, Mr. Abe issued an apology in December on the issue of “comfort women,” sex slaves taken by the Japanese military from Korea and other nations, long seen as an open wound to Koreans. Many in South Korea criticized the apology as insufficient, but President Park Geun-hye accepted it and Mr. Abe appeared to win credit in Washington.
在华盛顿的施压下，安倍晋三去年12月对“慰安妇”问题发表道歉。慰安妇是日军从朝鲜半岛等地获得的性奴，长期以来被朝韩国民视为未曾痊愈的伤口。很多韩国人指责他的道歉并不充分，但朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统接受了道歉，安倍晋三似乎也因此得到了华盛顿的认可。
“We will acknowledge the Korean experience when we have opportunities, but we don’t think we have to choose between different people’s histories,” Benjamin Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, said in an interview.
“我们会选择恰当的时机，对韩国的遭遇做出表示，但我们不认为，我们必须在不同民族的历史之间做出选择，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·罗兹(Benjamin Rhodes)近日在接受采访时说。
South Korea has not issued a formal statement either for or against Mr. Obama’s visit to Hiroshima. Ms. Park left Wednesday on a tour of Africa.
韩国还没有发表支持或反对奥巴马访问广岛的正式声明。朴槿惠本周三离开韩国，出访非洲。
As disputes with China mount, the White House has also become less concerned about how the visit will be received in Beijing. One of Washington’s great parlor games nvolves whether Tokyo or Beijing has the president’s favor. For the first years of Mr. Obama’s presidency, many Japan hands were convinced that the Obama team favored China, seeing it as the only indispensable Asian nation and crucial to a climate-change pact.
随着与中国之间的争端日益加剧，白宫也变得不那么关心北京对这次访问的看法了。总统偏向于东京还是北京是华盛顿的一大谜题。奥巴马上任的最初几年，很多支持日本的人都认为奥巴马团队偏向中国，觉得中国是唯一不可缺少的亚洲国家，对气候变化协议来说也至关重要。
Mr. Abe, meanwhile, has worked diligently to tighten Japan’s already close embrace of the United States. New guidelines written last year will further integrate the two militaries, and an unpopular state-secrets law passed in 2014 was intended, in part, to make intelligence sharing easier. Along with new security laws that allow Japanese forces to engage in combat missions overseas, these moves have won Mr. Abe plaudits in Washington.
与此同时，安倍晋三也在大力推动日美之间已经比较密切的关系。去年编制的新准则将进一步整合美日军队，而且日本2014年通过了一项不受欢迎的国家保密法，其部分目的是为情报共享提供更多方便。再加上让日本军队可以到海外参与作战任务的新安全法，安倍晋三在华盛顿赢得了称赞。
The visit to Hiroshima “is a gesture of respect for the Japanese people,” Mr. Rhodes said, adding: “It’s always been evident that it would be meaningful for the Japanese people to pay this kind of visit, and insofar as it helps us to advance this alliance, that’s important.”
访问广岛“是一种姿态，是对日本公众的尊重，”罗兹说：“这是显而易见的，这样的访问对日本公众来说具有意义，可以帮助我们推动日美联盟，这很重要。”
China has criticized the visit as an opportunity for Japan to recast itself as a victim rather than aggressor in World War II, and for the United States to cozy up to Japan, People’s Daily, derided as Mr. Obama’s “right-hand man” in East Asia.
中国对此次访问提出了批评，称日本会借机把自己重新塑造成二战的受害者而非侵略者，美国则会乘机讨好日本。《人民日报》嘲笑日本是奥巴马在东亚的“得力助手”。
“We hope that when inviting other state leaders to visit Hiroshima, Japan bears one thing in mind,” Lu Kang, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said this month. “That is, it will never tread on the path of militarism again, as it once brought unspeakable suffering to its people and people of Asia and around the world.”
“我们希望，日方安排其他国家政要去广岛参访，也要本着一个目的，”中国外交部发言人陆慷本月说。“就是日本绝不再走军国主义道路，这条道路曾经给日本本国人民以及亚洲和世界人民带来深重灾难。”
Even in Tokyo, there is some ambivalence about Mr. Obama’s visit. Mr. Abe is expected to get a political lift, and ordinary Japanese have embraced Mr. Obama’s support for nuclear disarmament.
对于奥巴马的此次访问，即便是在东京也有人持矛盾心理。安倍晋三的政治形象预计会得到提升，日本普通民众对奥巴马支持核裁军表示欢迎。