WASHINGTON — When President Obama strode into the Rose Garden last month after a week of increasing tension over Syria’s use of chemical weapons, many assumed it was to announce that the attack that had been broadly hinted at by his own aides had begun. Instead, he turned the decision over to Congress. And when Mr. Obama appeared on television Tuesday night, a speech initially intended to promote force made the argument for diplomacy.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统上个月走进白宫玫瑰园，是在叙利亚使用化学武器一星期后，当时，这一事件让局势日趋紧张，而总统的助手们曾普遍做出过对叙利亚实施军事打击的暗示，因此，许多人都以为他要宣布的是军事打击已经启动。不料，他竟把事情交由国会定夺。而当奥巴马周二晚间出现在电视屏幕上时，人们原本以为讲话的主旨是推动武力打击叙利亚的进程，但他却给出了通过外交途径解决问题的说法。
Over the last three weeks, the nation has witnessed a highly unusual series of pivots as a president changed course virtually in real time and on live television. Mr. Obama’s handling of his confrontation with Syria over a chemical weapons attack on civilians has been the rare instance of a commander in chief seemingly thinking out loud and changing his mind on the fly.
三个星期以来，总统在现实里和电视实况转播中随时都会改弦更张，这导致美国人目睹了一系列超乎寻常的战略转向。在针对叙利亚使用化学武器袭击平民一事与其对峙的过程中，奥巴马处理问题的方式非常罕见：作为三军统帅，他居然把所思所想昭告天下，而且主意一时一变。
To aides and allies, Mr. Obama’s willingness to hit the pause button twice on his decision to launch airstrikes to punish Syria for using chemical weapons on its own people reflects a refreshing open-mindedness and a reluctance to use force that they considered all too missing under his predecessor with the Texas swagger. In this view, Mr. Obama is a nimble leader more concerned with getting the answer right than with satisfying a political class all too eager to second-guess every move.
关于是否对叙利亚发动空袭，以惩罚其使用化学武器袭击本国人民的行为，奥巴马在决策过程中愿意两度按下暂停键。对其助手和盟友而言，这反映出他与众不同的开明心态以及对动用武力的抗拒，他们认为，这些特质都是他那洋溢着得克萨斯式自大气息的前任所极度缺乏的。按照这种观点，奥巴马是一个灵活的领导者，他更在意的是如何得出正确答案，而非令太过急于预测其一举一动的政治阶层感到满意。
“All the critics would like this to be easily choreographed, a straight line and end the way they’d all individually like it to end,” said David Plouffe, the president’s former senior adviser. “That’s not the way the world works for sure, especially in a situation like this. I think it speaks to his strength, which is that he’s willing to take in new information.”
“所有评论家都希望每个步骤能整齐地排列好。他们希望事情的发展能像直线一样，并以他们每个人喜欢的方式结束，”总统的前高级顾问戴维·普洛夫(David Plouffe)说。“不过世界肯定不是这么运行的，在当前形势下尤为如此。我想这显出了他的长处，他乐于接受新的信息。”
But to Mr. Obama’s detractors, including many in his own party, he has shown a certain fecklessness with his decisions first to outsource the decision to lawmakers in the face of bipartisan opposition and then to embrace a Russian diplomatic alternative that even his own advisers consider dubious. Instead of displaying decisive leadership, Mr. Obama, to these critics, has appeared reactive, defensive and profoundly challenged in standing up to a dangerous world. “There’s absolutely no question he’s very uncomfortable being commander in chief,” Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, a Republican who worked with the White House to support force against Syria, said in an interview. “In personal meetings, he comes across very confident. I wish I could deliver a speech as well as he does. But it’s like he wants to slip the noose. It’s like watching a person who’s caged, who’s in a trap and trying to figure a way out.”
但在奥巴马的批评者，包括他自己党派中的很多人看来，他在决策过程中显得有些反复无常：首先，在面对两党的共同反对时，他把决策权踢给了国会议员；随后，他又对俄罗斯提出的外交替代方案表示接纳，可就连他的顾问都觉得该方案靠不住。在这些批评者看来，奥巴马并未展现出一个领导者所应具备的决断力，反而显得被动、保守，对抗充满危险的世界于对他而言似乎是过大的挑战。“担任三军统帅的角色显然让他感到不舒服，”与白宫站在同一阵营、支持对叙利亚动武的田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·柯克(Bob Corker)在接受采访时说。“私下碰面时，他表现得非常自信。我真希望自己可以像他那样侃侃而谈。但现在他似乎想要挣脱套索。我好象看到了一个困在笼中的人，他中了圈套，正奋力逃生。”
For good or ill, and there are plenty who argue both points of view, Mr. Obama represents a stark contrast in style to George W. Bush. The former president valued decisiveness and once he made a decision rarely revisited it. While he, too, changed course from time to time, Mr. Bush regularly told aides that a president should not reveal doubts because it would send a debilitating signal to his own administration, troops in the field and the country at large.
对此持正面意见和负面意见的人都很多，好也罢，坏也罢，奥巴马在行事风格上与乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)形成了强烈反差。前任总统崇尚果断，一旦做出了一个决定，就很少再重新审视它。布什虽然偶尔也会改变航线，但他常常告诉助手，一个总统不该显得犹豫不决，因为这会让他的政府、前线的军队乃至整个国家认为他很软弱。
Mr. Obama came to office as the anti-Bush, his candidacy set in motion by his opposition to the Iraq war, and promising to be more open to contrary advice, more pragmatic in his policies and more contemplative in his decisions. When it came time to decide whether to send more troops to Afghanistan in 2009, he presided over three months of study and debate that even aides found excruciating at times but were presented as a more thoughtful process.
奥巴马当初是以“与布什迥然不同”的形象入主白宫的，正是他的反伊拉克战争立场启动了他竞选总统的旅程，他承诺将在面对反对意见时更加开明，在制定政策时更加务实，在做出决策时更加深思熟虑。2009年决定是否增兵阿富汗时，他用长达三个月的时间来进行研讨和辩论，有时候连他的助手们都觉得太折磨人了，但这被宣传为一个缜密的决策流程。
Known as a disciplined candidate and personality, Mr. Obama earned a reputation for decisiveness with the daring operation that killed Osama bin Laden, although that obscured the months of secret deliberations the public did not see. He likewise expanded drone strikes against suspected terrorists and until recently expressed little doubt about their wisdom and necessity.
奥巴马还是总统候选人的时候，是以作风严谨闻名的。他后来在猎杀本拉登的行动中表现得相当大胆，又为自己赢得了行事果断的美名——但公众没有看到的是长达数月的秘密讨论。此外，他还扩大了以无人机清除恐怖分子嫌疑人的行动的规模，而且直到最近也不曾对这么做是否明智和必要表示出怀疑。
But Richard N. Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former State Department official under Mr. Bush who broke with his old boss and has been supportive of Mr. Obama at times is highly critical of the way he has handled Syria. “Words like ad hoc and improvised and unsteady come to mind,” Mr. Haass said. “This has been probably the most undisciplined stretch of foreign policy of his presidency.”
有时会支持奥巴马的美国外交关系协会主席理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N. Haass)对奥巴马处理叙利亚问题的方式提出严厉批评。“临时，随意，不稳定，我脑子里一直出现这些字眼，”哈斯说，“这可能是他任期里外交政策最为轻率的一段时间。”哈斯是前布什政府国务院官员，后来和布什分道扬镳。
With the civil war in Syria, Mr. Obama has telegraphed uncertainty for two years, clearly pained by the deaths of 100,000 people yet unsure what the United States could do about it that would succeed without dragging the country into another war. He set a “red line” against the use of chemical weapons without defining what it would entail.
两年来，奥巴马在面对叙利亚内战时，一直都表现得犹疑不定。战争已经导致10万人丧生，这显然让他感到痛心，但他还不能确定：美国能够对此采取哪些有效措施，同时又不让自己卷入另外一场战争。他设置了反对使用化学武器的“红线”，不过并未明确跨线者所要承担的后果。
Once a sarin gas attack on Aug. 21 killed more than 1,400 civilians, according to American intelligence, Mr. Obama agreed that a military response was needed while making clear how much he wished it were not.
美国方面的情报显示，8月21日的沙林毒气袭击造成超过1400个平民死亡。奥巴马随即同意：有必要对叙利亚实施军事打击。但他同时也向外界表明，他是多么希望不去动用武力。
“I would much rather spend my time talking about how to make sure every 3- and 4-year-old gets a good education than I would spending time thinking about how can I prevent 3- and 4-year-olds from being subjected to chemical weapons and nerve gas,” he lamented during a visit to Sweden last week. “Unfortunately, that’s sometimes the decisions that I’m confronted with as president of the United States.”
“我更愿意花时间讨论如何确保三四岁的孩子获得良好的教育，而不是花时间思考如何保护三四岁的孩子不受化学武器和神经毒气的伤害，”上周，他在访问瑞典期间感叹道，“不幸的是，作为美国总统，我有时必须面对这类决定。”