WASHINGTON — The assertion of presidential power was remarkable in scale. With the flick of a pen just before Thanksgiving in 2014, President Obama ordered that nearly five million illegal immigrants be allowed to “come out of the shadows” and work legally in the United States.
华盛顿——那次总统权力的主张体现出了宏大的规模。在2014年感恩节前夕，奥巴马总统大笔一挥，下令允许近500万非法移民“走出阴影”，在美国境内合法工作。
Standing at the same lectern where he had announced the death of Osama bin Laden three years earlier, Mr. Obama insisted in a speech to the nation that his plan for immigrants was a fully legal response to a Republican-controlled Congress that had refused his plea for an overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws.
当时，奥巴马站在三年前他宣布奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)毙命的那座讲台上，向全美发表演讲，坚称他的移民改革计划是对共和党把持的国会做出的合法回应——对于他提出的对美国移民法规进行全面改革的请求，国会一直予以了拒绝。
But on Thursday, the Supreme Court disagreed. In a 4-to-4 decision, the justices let stand a lower court ruling that Mr. Obama had overstepped his authority. The decision freezes the president’s actions for the balance of his term, leaving the future of the program — and millions of undocumented workers — in limbo.
不过，在本周四的时候，最高法院发出了不同的声音。大法官们以4比4的票数做出裁决，维持下级法院的判定：奥巴马逾越了自己的职权。这一裁决将移民方面的总统行政令在他任期剩余时间内冻结，使得相关项目的未来晦暗不明。同样陷入混沌状态的，还有成百上千万无证件劳动者的未来。
Mr. Obama campaigned vowing to win passage of comprehensive immigration legislation in his first year in office, but the Supreme Court defeat will force him to finish his term without securing the major progress he had promised to millions of Latino immigrants living under the threat of deportation.
奥巴马在竞选总统的时候便发誓要在就职头一年里通过全面的移民立法，但他此次在最高法院的失利，将迫使他在任期结束的时候都无法达成自己向数千万拉丁裔移民曾经许诺的重大进展。现在，这些移民面临遣返风险。
Instead, one of the president’s chief immigration legacies will be the years of increased enforcement he ordered at the border with Mexico and in immigrant communities, hoping it would lead to a compromise with Republicans. The aggressive actions of immigration agents and local law enforcement, especially during Mr. Obama’s first term, angered many family members separated by raids and deportations.
总统在移民问题上的一项主要政治遗产，反而变成了他下令在任内几年里增强美墨边境及移民社区的执法力度。他曾希望这能最终让他与共和党人达成妥协。移民局官员与地方执法部门采取的强硬手法，尤其是在奥巴马的首个任期内，惹恼了不少因突击行动和遣返而骨肉分离的家庭。
Mr. Obama did earn praise from Hispanics for taking action in 2012 to help the so-called Dreamers, young undocumented immigrants who had been brought to the United States as small children. Under the president’s program, more than 730,000 of them received documents allowing them to work legally without constant fear that they might be sent home.
奥巴马的确因2012年采取行动来帮助“梦想者”(Dreamers)而获得了西语裔的赞赏。“梦想者”指的是幼儿时便被带入美国境内的年轻无证件移民。按照奥巴马创立的项目，逾73万“梦想者”得到了允许他们合法工作的证件，无需再为可能会被遣返而时刻担惊受怕。
Hillary Clinton, who embraced the president’s executive action programs, has said she would expand them. The court’s actions could complicate her ability to do that if she is elected president in the fall.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)当年大力支持奥巴马总统的移民行政令项目，迄今亦一直表示她会扩大其规模。倘若她在今年秋季当选总统，最高法院的本次裁决也会为她这样做的能力构成阻碍。
But the successful legal assault on Mr. Obama’s actions may also yield some political benefits for Mrs. Clinton and Democrats by helping to motivate and energize Hispanic voters who are angry with the court’s decision. Activists have promised to punish Donald J. Trump and other Republicans who opposed the president’s actions by registering more Hispanic voters and getting them to vote. Mr. Trump’s rhetorical assault on immigrants, especially Mexicans, is also likely to help energize Hispanic activists on behalf of Mrs. Clinton and other Democratic candidates.
然而，这次对奥巴马行政行为的成功法律挑战或许同时会给克林顿和民主党带来一些政治上的好处，有利于动员和激发对法院裁决不满的西语裔移民。活动人士发誓要惩罚唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)等反对这项总统行政令的共和党人，方式是促使更多的西语裔选民注册，并做到让他们去投票。特朗普对移民的言语攻击，尤其是针对墨西哥裔的那些，也很可能会推动西语裔活动人士支持克林顿及其他选举中的民主党候选人。
The court’s action comes after nearly eight years of largely futile attempts by the president to make good on his promise.
在最高法院做出此项裁决之前，在近八年的时间里，奥巴马总统试图兑现自己移民改革承诺的努力基本无功而返。
Mr. Obama had resorted to executive actions in 2014 after years of fighting to get Congress to act. In 2013, the Senate passed a bipartisan immigration overhaul that the White House said the president could support. But House Republicans blocked any consideration of the legislation, accusing the Senate and Mr. Obama of supporting amnesty for the millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States.
在多年无法让国会采取行动的情况下，奥巴马于2014年诉诸行政令。在2013年，参议院曾经通过一项得到两党支持的移民改革提案，并获白宫表态总统可予以支持。但是，众议院里的共和党人堵住了考虑这项提案的任何可能性，指责参议院和奥巴马本人支持对已经身处美国的数千万非法移民进行大赦。
For most of his presidency, even Mr. Obama said he did not have the power to act unilaterally. He repeatedly told Hispanic activists that he could not use the “Dreamers” program as a model to expand similar protections to a much larger pool of illegal immigrants.
在总统任期的大部分时间里，就连奥巴马本人也说他并没有单方面行动的权力。他反复告诫西语裔活动人士，他无法运用“梦想者”项目作为模板来将类似的保护措施扩展到规模大得多的非法移民群体。
“If we start broadening that, then essentially I’ll be ignoring the law in a way that I think would be very difficult to defend legally,” Mr. Obama told Jose Diaz-Balart in an interview in September 2013, after it was clear that House Republicans were blocking the Senate’s immigration measure. “So that’s not an option.”
“假如我们开始扩展，基本上我就是在无视法律。我想这种无视很难在法律上进行辩护，”奥巴马在2013年9月在接受何塞·迪亚兹-巴拉特(Jose Diaz-Balart)采访时说。那时候，共和党众议员要阻止参议院移民提案的意图已显现出来。“所以，这不是一个可选项。”
Responding a month later to hecklers urging him to take action, Mr. Obama snapped back, “The easy way out is to try to yell and pretend like I can do something by violating our laws.”
一个月后，面对有人起哄让他采取行动，奥巴马严厉地回答，“简单的办法是大呼小叫，假装我可以通过违法手段为所欲为。”
But the pressure from Hispanic activists only grew more intense. (The head of the nation’s largest Latino advocacy organization once called Mr. Obama the “deporter in chief.”) By the summer of 2014, the president had ordered Jeh Johnson, the secretary of homeland security, to lead a team of lawyers in reassessing how much power Mr. Obama had to act.
不过，来自西语裔活动人士的压力有增无减。（美国最大的拉丁裔权益倡导团体的负责人一度把奥巴马称为“首席遣返官”。）到了2014年的夏天，总统指示国土安全部长杰·约翰逊(Jeh Johnson)带领一支律师团队，重新评估他究竟有多大的权力来采取行动。
In remarks at the White House on Nov. 20, 2014, the president made it clear that he had reversed himself.
在2014年11月20日于白宫发表的讲话中，奥巴马显然改变了主意。
“The actions I’m taking are not only lawful, they’re the kinds of actions taken by every single Republican president and every single Democratic president for the past half-century,” Mr. Obama said. He added, “There are actions I have the legal authority to take as president, the same kinds of actions taken by Democratic and Republican presidents before me, that will help make our immigration system more fair and more just.”
“我将要采取的行动不仅合法，而且是过去半个世纪里每一位共和党总统和民主党总统都会做出的行动，”奥巴马说。他还表示，“身为总统，我有合法授权来采取一些行动。这些行动与民主共和两党的前任总统采取的行动类同，会有助于我们的移民系统变得更加公平公正。”
White House officials at the time told reporters that they thought the legal case was rock-solid. In a briefing the day that Mr. Obama made his announcement, administration officials dismissed talk of a legal challenge by Republicans, arguing that Texas did not have standing to sue.
白宫官员当时告诉记者，他们认为其中的法律依据坚如磐石。在总统宣布行政措施当天召开的通报会上，奥巴马政府的官员没有理会共和党人要发起法律挑战的说法，认为得克萨斯州政府并没有依据来提起诉讼。
As it turned out, that proved too optimistic. A judge in Texas and a federal appeals court in New Orleans agreed that the Texas and 25 other states had standing to sue the government because the president’s actions could potentially be very expensive for those states.
事实证明，这种想法太乐观了。得克萨斯的一位法官和设在新奥尔良的一个联邦上诉法院均认为，包括得克萨斯在内的26个州有资格对联邦政府提起诉讼，因为总统采取的行动可能会给这些州带来高昂的成本。
The Supreme Court, in its ruling, deadlocked on the case, leaving intact — at least for now — the victories by the states in the lower courts.
最高法院在这起诉讼中陷入平票的僵局，由此做出的裁决让这些州保住了在下级法院取得的胜利——至少目前如此。