WASHINGTON — President Obama will move as soon as next month to defang the 54-year-old American trade embargo against Cuba, administration officials said Thursday, using broad executive power to defy critics in Congress and lift restrictions on travel, commerce and financial activities. 
华盛顿――政府官员周四说，奥巴马总统最快将于下月解除美国对古巴实行54年之久的贸易禁运，他将凭借广泛的行政权力无视国会的批评，并放开旅行、商务及金融活动的限制。
The moves are only the beginning of what White House officials and foreign policy experts describe as a sweeping set of changes that Mr. Obama can make on his own to re-establish commercial and diplomatic ties with Cuba even in the face of angry congressional opposition.
这些举措只是奥巴马可自行实施的、被白宫官员和外交政策专家形容为一系列彻底变革的开始。奥巴马欲通过这些改变重建与古巴的商务和外交关系，即使他面临着国会愤怒的反对。
“The embargo is a container — it’s been that way since President Eisenhower — that’s had regulations and laws put into it and taken out of it and mixed about,” said John Kavulich of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council. “President Obama is saying, ‘I’m going to leave a shell, but it’s going to be a proverbial Easter egg — it’s going to be hollow.’ ”
“贸易禁运是一个容器——自艾森豪威尔总统(President Eisenhower)起就一直是这样——它供法律法规被装进装出并搅在一起，”美古贸易和经济委员会(U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council)的约翰·卡武里奇(John Kavulich)说。“奥巴马总统正在说，‘我将留下一个壳，但是它将会是一个众所周知的复活节彩蛋——它将会是空心的’。”（复活节彩蛋均为空心——编注）
The Treasury Department will issue a series of regulations to ease agricultural exports and establish banking relations, administration officials said, and the Commerce Department will move to allow United States companies to export construction and telecommunications equipment, among other things, for sale in Cuba. 
政府官员说，财政部(Treasury Department)将发布一系列规定，以放宽农业出口，并建立银行业关系，商务部(Commerce Department)将采取行动允许美国公司出口建筑及通讯设备等供在古巴出售。
The State Department is also starting a review that could lead to Cuba’s removal from a list of state sponsors of terrorism, clearing away a major impediment to Havana’s ability to trade and access banking services around the world.
国务院也将开始一项复审，其可能使古巴被从资助恐怖主义的国家名单中移除。这将扫清哈瓦那在全球范围内进行贸易活动、获得金融服务的主要障碍。
Taken together, the actions will render the embargo “a lot more holes than cheese,” said Robert L. Muse, a Washington-based lawyer who specializes in American laws relating to Cuba. “The president went big on this, and that produces a momentum of its own, so I expect that we’ll see these things go further and faster than anybody would have anticipated.”
放在一起来看，这些举措将使该贸易禁运“有比奶酪还多的洞洞（英文谚语，意为漏洞百出——编注），”一名专攻涉及古巴的美国法律的华盛顿律师罗伯特·L·缪斯(Robert L. Muse)说。“总统在这上玩得很大，这让事情本身产生了一种前进势头，所以我预计我们将会看到这些事情比任何人所期许的都走得更远、更快。”
It is not clear when Mr. Obama might nominate an ambassador, a move that would set the stage for contentious confirmation hearings. “We would anticipate that we will have an embassy before we would make a nomination,” said Roberta S. Jacobson, the assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs.
目前尚不清楚奥巴马将于何时任命一名大使，此举势必带来充满争论的听证会。“我们预计我们将会在进行任命之前先有一个大使馆，”负责西半球事务的助理国务卿罗伯塔·S·雅各布森(Roberta S. Jacobson)说。
In a briefing with reporters, she described a process that could rapidly lead to a full restoration of diplomatic relations.
在一场记者吹风会上，她描述了一个可以迅即带来外交关系全面恢复的过程。
The United States does not need to build a new embassy, officials said, because it would be housed in the Havana compound that is now home to the current United States Interests Section. Nor would Cuba’s human rights record pose an obstacle to the restoration of relations, officials said.
官员们说，美国不用建设一个新的大使馆，因为新使馆将被设立于现在美国利益代表处(United States Interests Section)所在的位于哈瓦那的院落内。官员们说，古巴的人权记录也不会是重建关系的障碍。
Ms. Jacobson is scheduled to lead a team of American officials to Havana near the end of January, although no specific date has been set, to discuss the restoration of relations as well as issues in carrying out a 1995 migration accord.
雅各布森预定将于1月末率领一队美国官员赴哈瓦那讨论重建关系及实施一份1995年的移民协议的相关事宜，但具体日期还未确定。
“I do think that some human rights issues will be talked about in this trip,” she said. “I do not necessarily think that we’re talking about direct human rights conditionality in the restoration of diplomatic relations.”
“我不认为人权问题将于此行被谈及，”她说。“我并不认为我们会谈论重建外交关系的直接人权附加条件。”
Treasury and Commerce Department officials are moving quickly to tear down regulatory barriers to Americans’ ability to travel, conduct financial dealings and export products to Cuba, officials said.  
官员们说，财政部和商务部官员正在迅速行动解除美国人赴古旅游、在古进行金融交易，及向古出口产品的监管壁垒。
The Commerce Department said it would loosen an array of export limits, including the sale of tools and equipment to small businesses not owned by the Cuban government, like construction companies, agricultural businesses, automobile repair and beauty shops. 
商务部称其将放松一批出口限制，包括向非古巴政府所有的建筑公司、农业企业、汽修及美容店铺等小型企业出售工具和设备。
Restrictions on scientific, athletic and cultural goods — such as musical instruments for orchestral concerts — will also be relaxed. 
就科技、运动及文化产品——比如交响乐乐器——的限制也将被放宽。
The administration “is confident that these changes are consistent with the statutory requirements of the embargo,” said Matthew S. Borman, the deputy assistant secretary of commerce for export administration.
政府“自信这些改变与禁运的法定要求相符”，负责出口管理的商务部次长马修·S·波尔曼(Matthew S. Borman)说。
The Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department will scrap a measure that requires people who are already eligible for travel to Cuba to receive special permission from the government for trips such as those involving family visits, professional, religious or cultural programs and humanitarian projects.
美国财政部海外资产控制办公室(Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department)将不再要求已具备前往古巴资格的人士在收到政府特许后才可进行例如探亲、参加职业、宗教或文化项目及人道主义项目的行程。
New rules will also make it easier to get there, by allowing the direct purchase of airline tickets to Cuba rather than requiring travelers to go through a travel agent and charter a flight.
新规定也将令赴古巴更加容易，它允许人们直接购买前往古巴的机票，而不再要求旅客通过旅行社购票并包机。
The Treasury Department is also quadrupling the amount of money that can be sent to Cubans each quarter, to $2,000 from $500, and is loosening banking restrictions. It plans to relax requirements, strongly opposed by American exporters, that mandate that cargo be paid for in advance or financed by a bank in a third country before it can be shipped.
财政部也将每季度汇往古巴的汇款上限提升至以往的四倍，从500美元增加到2000美元，并放宽了银行业限制。财政部计划放宽强制要求货物在运输前提前付款或由第三国银行提供资金的规定，这项规定曾遭美国出口商强烈反对。
A major step toward resuming ties would be the removal of Cuba from the State Department’s list of state sponsors of terrorism, which includes countries like Iran, Sudan and Syria. Cuba was placed on that list in 1982.
重启关系的重要一步是将古巴从国务院资助恐怖主义国家的名单上移除。该名单包括伊朗、苏丹及叙利亚等国。古巴于1982年被列名。
Its removal is the most important step the Obama administration can take before the restoration of full economic ties, said Julia E. Sweig, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)高级研究员茱莉亚·斯维格(Julia E. Sweig)说，将古巴移除是奥巴马政府在经济关系全面恢复前能采取的最重要举措。