WASHINGTON — The Obama administration struck back at Russia on Thursday for its efforts to influence the 2016 election, ejecting 35 Russian intelligence operatives from the United States and imposing sanctions on Russia’s two leading intelligence services.
华盛顿——周四，奥巴马政府对俄罗斯试图影响2016年总统选举的行为做出回击，不仅驱逐35名俄罗斯情报人员，还对俄罗斯两个著名情报机构进行制裁。
The administration also sanctioned four top officers of one of those services, the military intelligence unit known as the GRU, which the White House believes ordered the attacks on the Democratic National Committee and other political organizations.
奥巴马当局的制裁还包括其中一个情报部门的四名高级军官，这个军事情报部门名为情报总局特种部队(GRU)，白宫认为正是该机构下令开展了针对民主党全国委员会（Democratic National Committee，简称DNC）等政治组织的攻击。
The expulsion of the 35 diplomats was in response to the harassment of U.S. diplomats in Russia, officials said. None of those officials are believed to be connected to the hacking, they said. In addition, the State Department announced the closing of two “recreational facilities” — one in New York, another in Maryland — that it said were used for Russian intelligence activities, although officials would not say whether they were specifically used in the election-related hacks.
多位官员说，驱逐这35名外交官是为了回应美国外交官在俄罗斯遭到的骚扰。他们表示并不认为这些官员与黑客入侵有关系。此外，国务院还宣布关闭纽约州和马里兰州的两处“娱乐设施”，称它们被用于俄罗斯情报活动，虽然官员不愿具体透露它们是否用于了与选举相关的黑客行为。
In a sweeping set of announcements, the United States also released samples of malware and other indicators of Russian cyberactivity, including network addresses of computers commonly used by the Russians to launch attacks. Taken together, the actions amount to the strongest U.S. response ever taken to a state-sponsored cyberattack aimed at the United States.
在一系列公告中，美国还公开了与俄罗斯网络活动有关的恶意软件以及其他指示物的样本，包括俄罗斯人通常用来发动攻击的计算机网址。综合来看，这些举措是美国迄今为止针对政府支持的以美国为目标的网络攻击所做出的最强硬回应。
The sanctions were in part intended to box in President-elect Donald Trump. Trump has consistently cast doubt that the Russian government had anything to do with the hacking of the DNC or other political institutions.
从某种角度看，这些制裁也是为了箝制候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。特朗普始终觉得俄罗斯政府与DNC或其他政治机构遭受的黑客攻击没有什么关系。
Asked on Wednesday about reports of the impending sanctions, Trump said: “I think we ought to get on with our lives. I think that computers have complicated lives very greatly. The whole age of computer has made it where nobody knows exactly what is going on. We have speed, we have a lot of other things, but I’m not sure we have the kind, the security we need.”
周三，特朗普在被问及即将发布的制裁报道时，他说：“我认为，我们应该让生活继续过下去。计算机的问题非常复杂。整个计算机时代已经发展到了没人知道状况究竟是怎样的地步。我们有速度，以及很多其他东西，但我不认为我们拥有我们需要的那种安全性。”
President Barack Obama, in a statement, put in a subtle dig at Trump’s unwillingness to talk about Russia’s role. “All Americans should be alarmed by Russia’s actions,” he said. He called the moves “a necessary and appropriate response to efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior.”
在一份声明中，奥巴马总统暗示特朗普不愿意谈论俄罗斯的角色。他说：“所有美国人都应该对俄罗斯的行为抱有戒心。”他称这些举措是对“违反既定国际行为准则，试图损害美国利益的行为做出的必要的、恰当的回应”。