UNITED NATIONS — President Obama on Tuesday laid down a retooled blueprint for America’s role in the strife-torn Middle East, declaring that the United States would use all of its levers of power, including military force, to defend its interests, even as it accepted limits about its ability to influence events in Syria, Iran and other countries.
联合国——周二，奥巴马总统对美国在战火纷飞的中东地区所扮演的角色进行了重新规划，宣称美国将动用包括军力在内的一切影响力来捍卫本国利益，尽管美国承认，自己对叙利亚、伊朗和其他一些国家局势的影响力有限。
In a wide-ranging speech to the General Assembly that played off rapid-fire diplomatic developments but also sought to define what he called a “hard-earned humility” about American engagement after 12 years of war, Mr. Obama insisted that the United States still played an “exceptional” role on the world stage. Turning inward, he said, “would create a vacuum of leadership that no other nation is ready to fill.”
奥巴马在联合国大会上的讲话内容广泛，既提到了快速发展的外交形势，又试图定义他所说的一种“辛苦得来的谦卑”，指的是美国在12年战争之后对自身干预行动所持的看法。与此同时，奥巴马坚称，美国在世界舞台上的地位仍旧“独一无二”。他说，美国如果撤退，“就将产生一个领导真空，而其他国家都未做好填补这个真空的准备”。
Mr. Obama embraced a diplomatic opening to Iran, saying he had instructed Secretary of State John Kerry to begin high-level negotiations on its nuclear program. He called on the Security Council to pass a resolution that would impose consequences on Syria if it failed to turn over its chemicals weapons. And he delivered a pitch for peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, talks that have restarted at the prodding of Mr. Kerry.
奥巴马愿意通过外交手段解决伊朗问题，称他已经通知美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)就伊朗核项目展开高层协商。他还呼吁安理会( Security Council) 通过一项决议；按照该决议，倘若叙利亚未上交其化学武器，就需要承担一定的后果。他还阐述了巴以和谈的重要性，在克里的敦促下，巴以和谈已重新开始。
Hours later, Iran’s newly elected president, Hassan Rouhani, echoed the call for diplomacy, telling the General Assembly that “we can arrive at a framework to manage our differences.” But Mr. Rouhani said Iran would insist on its right to enrich uranium, and he warned Mr. Obama to resist influence from “warmongering pressure groups.”
几小时后，伊朗新当选总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)对用外交手段解决争端的呼吁表示了赞同。他在联合国大会上说，“我们可以拿出一个用来管控彼此差异的框架”。但鲁哈尼说，伊朗绝不会放弃铀浓缩的权利，并且警告奥巴马，要抵制“好战压力团体”的影响。
Mr. Rouhani, who had mounted an aggressive charm offensive in the weeks before arriving in New York, also declined a chance to shake hands with Mr. Obama — avoiding a much-anticipated encounter that would have bridged more than three decades of estrangement between the leaders of Iran and the United States.
在抵达纽约之前的几周，鲁哈尼曾展开积极的魅力攻势。本次大会上，他拒绝了一个与奥巴马握手的机会，由此避开了这次人们盼望已久的邂逅，尽管它原本可以弥合伊朗与美国领导人长达30余年的疏离。
While in their speeches, both leaders balanced their ideals as statesmen with their imperatives as politicians, for Mr. Rouhani, a handshake may have proved too provocative for hard-line constituencies back home. At the end of a day of drama and dashed expectations at the United Nations, the spotlight swung back to the grinding work of diplomacy that awaits Iran and the United States.
虽然两位领导人都在讲话中用身为政客的责任平衡了身为政治家的理想，但对于鲁哈尼而言，握手可能会对国内的强硬派选民造成过大的刺激。整整一天，联合国发生了各种戏剧性事件，人们也表达了各种期望，会议结束之时，焦点又回到了伊朗和美国所面临的艰难外交之上。
In the morning, it was a somewhat diminished American leader who faced a skeptical audience of world leaders here. After first threatening, then backing off a military strike against Syria, and now suddenly confronting a diplomatic opening with Iran, Mr. Obama has employed a foreign policy that has at times seemed improvisational and, in view of many critics, irresolute.
当天上午，心存怀疑的世界领袖们看到的是一个形象稍显失色的美国领导人。奥巴马先是发出威胁，继而从针对叙利亚的军事打击计划后退，现在又突然愿意通过外交手段解决伊朗问题，在这个过程中，他采用的外交政策时或给人临时拼凑的感觉，还被很多批评人士视为优柔寡断。
The president acknowledged as much, saying his zigzag course on military strikes had unnerved some allies and vindicated the cynicism of many in the Middle East about American motives in the region. But he said the bigger threat would be if America withdrew altogether.
奥巴马自己也承认了这一点，称他寻求军事打击的摇摆进程让一些盟友失去了信心，并且断言，很多中东国家对美国在该地区的动机的讥讽都是有道理的。但他表示，如果美国完全撤出该地区，那会带来更大的威胁。
“The danger for the world is that the United States, after a decade of war, rightly concerned about issues back home, and aware of the hostility that our engagement in the region has engendered throughout the Muslim World, may disengage,” Mr. Obama said. “I believe that would be a mistake.”
“对于世界来说，危险在于美国可能选择退出，原因是我们在10年战争之后理所应当地回归国内问题，同时又意识到我们对该地区的干预在穆斯林世界引发了敌意，”奥巴马说，“我认为，退出将是一个错误。”
Despite a war-weary public and its declining reliance on Middle Eastern oil, the United States would continue to be an active player in the region, Mr. Obama insisted, defending its interests; advocating for democratic principles; working to resolve sectarian conflicts in countries like Iraq, Syria, and Bahrain; and if necessary, intervening militarily with others countries to head off humanitarian tragedies.
奥巴马坚称，尽管民众抱有厌战情绪，美国也正在逐步减少对中东石油的依赖，美国仍将继续在该地区积极发挥作用，捍卫美国的利益，倡导民主原则，致力于解决伊拉克、叙利亚及巴林等国家的宗派冲突问题，必要时还将对其他国家进行军事干预，以阻止人道主义悲剧的发生。
“We will be engaged in the region for the long haul,” Mr. Obama said in the 40-minute address. “For the hard work of forging freedom and democracy is the task of a generation.”
“我们将长期参与该地区的事务，”奥巴马在长达40分钟的讲话当中表示。“因为努力推动自由和民主是一代人的任务。”
For a president who has sought to refocus American foreign policy on Asia, it was a significant concession that the Middle East is likely to remain a major preoccupation for the rest of his term, if not that of his successor. Mr. Obama mentioned Asia only once, as an exemplar of the kind of economic development that has eluded the Arab world.
对于一个力图将美国的外交政策重点重新转向亚洲的总统来说，这是一个重大让步，也就是说，至少在本届总统任期的剩余时间里，美国可能会继续重点关注中东地区。讲话当中，奥巴马只提了亚洲一次，称阿拉伯世界没能取得亚洲那样的经济发展。
He said Iran’s overtures could provide a foundation for an agreement on its nuclear program, but he warned that “conciliatory words will have to be matched by actions that are transparent and verifiable.”
奥巴马表示，伊朗的和解姿态可以为就其核计划达成协议奠定基础，但他警告称，“既然发表了意在和解的言论，那就必须采取透明且可核查的行动。”
Referring to the moderate statements of Mr. Rouhani, and an exchange of letters with him, Mr. Obama sounded a cautiously optimistic tone about diplomacy. “The roadblocks may prove to be too great,” he added, “but I firmly believe the diplomatic path must be tested.”
在提到鲁哈尼的温和声明及与鲁哈尼的信件交流时，奥巴马对外交手段表示了谨慎乐观的态度。“前方或许障碍重重，”他补充说，“但我坚信，我们必须尝试通过外交途径解决问题。”