STATELINE, Nev. — President Barack Obama set off on a trans-Pacific voyage on Wednesday, his 10th trip to Asia as president and likely his last chance to showcase two of his most cherished projects: the focus on Asia and the campaign to curb climate change.
内华达州斯泰特莱恩——美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马周三开启他的跨太平洋之旅。这是他第十次以总统的身份前往亚洲，可能也是他展示自己极为重视的两个项目的最后机会。这两个项目分别是转向亚洲和遏制气候变化。
He hopes to announce further progress with China on climate change, which has become a rare bright spot in an otherwise fraught relationship. But his drive to reassert the United States’ presence in Asia has been jeopardized by a political backlash against his ambitious trade pact, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
他希望宣布在气候变化议题上同中国取得了进一步的进展。气候变化逐渐成为两国关系中一个罕见的亮点，除此之外，双方关系堪忧。不过，他为重申美国在亚洲的存在而展开的行动，受到了他雄心勃勃的贸易协议《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》(Trans Pacific Partnership)引发的政治抵制的破坏。
On Wednesday, the president began his travels by focusing on climate change in the American West, stopping at Lake Tahoe here to speak at a conference organized by U.S. Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., dedicated to preserving the lake.
周三当天，奥巴马总统在美国西部以聚焦气候变化的方式开启了此次行程。他在太浩湖这里短暂停留，出席了内华达州民主党联邦参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)专门为保护太浩湖组织的一次会议，并发表了讲话。
Speaking in an amphitheater under the fire-prone peaks of the Heavenly ski resort, Obama said, “The challenges of conservation and combating climate change are connected; they are linked.” Listing his recent moves to designate new national parks, he said, “when we protect our lands, it helps us protect our climate for the future.”
在离天堂滑雪场易发生火灾的山峰不远的圆形露天剧场里发表演讲时，奥巴马表示，“保护环境和遏制气候变化的挑战是有关系的，二者彼此相联。”在列举自己最近为设立新的国家公园而采取的举措时，他说，“当我们保护土地的时候，它就会帮助我们为了将来而保护气候。”
After leaving Lake Tahoe, Obama flew on to Hawaii, where he was to address leaders of Pacific island nations, some of whom face the prospect of rising seas swallowing their homes.
离开太浩湖后，奥巴马继续飞往夏威夷。在那里，他将向太平洋岛国的领导人发表讲话。这些国家中，部分面临海平面不断上升从而吞没其家园的前景。
On Thursday he is scheduled to travel to the Pacific atoll of Midway, within the Papahanaumokuakea National Monument, a protected marine reserve he designated a few years ago. Obama announced last week that he would quadruple it in size to more than half a million square miles.
他计划于周四前往太平洋上的环状珊瑚岛中途岛。该岛位于帕帕哈瑙莫夸基亚国家纪念区(Papahanaumokuakea National Monument)内，也就是几年前被奥巴马定为海洋保护区的地方。奥巴马上周宣布，他将把该保护区的面积扩大三倍，达到逾50万平方英里。
To land at Midway’s runway — not far from where one of the most fateful naval battles of World War II was fought — he is trading his regular Air Force One for a smaller plane.
为了在中途岛的那条跑道上降落，奥巴马要放弃经常乘坐的空军一号，换乘一架小一些的飞机。那条跑道的不远处，便是第二次世界大战中一场极为关键的海战的战场。
From there, it is on to Hangzhou, China, for a Group of 20 summit meeting, where Obama hopes to announce that he and President Xi Jinping have both agreed to put the Paris climate accord into effect. That legal step could galvanize its worldwide enforcement since their two countries account for 40 percent of global emissions.
从那里，奥巴马将继续前往中国杭州，出席二十国集团(Group of 20)峰会。奥巴马希望在会上宣布，他和中国国家主席习近平一致同意令巴黎气候协议生效。两国占全球总排放量的40%，而采取这一法律步骤，可能会促进协议在世界范围内的执行。