EDGARTOWN, Mass. — President Obama declared Wednesday that the entire world was “appalled” by the beheading of an American journalist by militants in Syria, but vowed that America would not change course in Iraq, where the United States has been conducting airstrikes against terrorists, despite threats by the group to kill another reporter in the days ahead.
马萨诸塞州埃德加敦——奥巴马总统在周三宣称，整个世界都对美国记者在叙利亚遭武装分子斩首一事感到“震惊”。尽管该组织威胁接下来要杀害另一名记者，但奥巴马发誓，美国不会改变在伊拉克的路线。美国近期在伊拉克持续开展空袭，打击恐怖分子。
“The United States of America will continue to do what we must do to protect our people,” Mr. Obama said in a brief statement from Martha’s Vineyard, where he was vacationing. “We will be vigilant and we will be relentless.”
“美国将一如既往地采取必要行动，以保护我们的民众，”奥巴马在度假地玛莎葡萄园岛发表简短声明称。“我们会提高警惕，毫不手软。”
Before speaking to reporters, Mr. Obama said, he placed a phone call to the parents of James Foley, the slain reporter, telling them that Americans were “all heartbroken at their loss.” He described Mr. Foley as a “journalist, a son, a brother and a friend who was “taken from us in an act of violence that shocked the conscience of the entire world.”
奥巴马表示，在对记者发表讲话前，他给被害记者詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)的父母打了电话，并告诉他们，美国民众“都为他们的损失而感到痛心”。他称福利为“记者、儿子、兄弟及朋友”，被“这一震惊全世界良知的残暴行为从我们身边夺走”。
But the president’s harshest and most emotional words were reserved for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the militants who released a video of the killing of Mr. Foley on Tuesday. American intelligence agencies on Wednesday verified the authenticity of the video, which shows a masked man decapitating James Foley, an American journalist who was kidnapped in Syria nearly two years ago. It also shows another American captive, the journalist Steven Sotloff, and warns that he would be the next to die.
不过，总统最严厉、最激烈的措辞是针对伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS)的。这些武装分子于周二公布了杀害福利的视频。美国情报机构周三证实了视频的真实性。其中显示，詹姆斯·福利被一名蒙面人斩首。大约两年之前，这名美国记者在叙利亚遭到绑架。另一名美国俘虏史蒂文·索特洛夫(Steven Sotloff)也出现在视频中。武装分子威胁称，下一个死的就是他。
The president called ISIS a “cancer” in the region and accused them of having “rampaged across cities and villages, killing unarmed civilians in cowardly acts of violence.” He said it had committed torture and rape against innocent women and children and continued to enslave those they did not kill.
奥巴马称ISIS是该地区的“毒瘤”，指责他们“在城镇和村庄肆意妄为，诉诸懦弱的暴力行为，杀害手无寸铁的平民。”他表示，该组织折磨、强奸无辜女性和儿童，并持续奴役那些尚未被杀害的人。
“No faith teaches people to massacre innocents,” Mr. Obama said. “No just God would stand for what they did yesterday and what they do every single day. People like this ultimately fail. They fail because the future is won by people who build and not destroy.”
“没有哪种信仰教导人去滥杀无辜，”奥巴马说。“没有哪位真正的神能够容忍他们昨天及每一天的所作所为。这种人最终必然失败。他们会失败，因为赢得未来的是那些创造者，而不是破坏者。”
Mr. Obama gave no indication that the gruesome video would change United States strategy in Iraq, although he vowed to protect Americans from the militants and bring those responsible to justice. He made no mention of Mr. Sotloff, who was shown in a similar orange outfit to the one Mr. Foley was wearing. Mr. Sotloff’s life depends on Mr. Obama’s “next move,” a masked militant in the video says.
奥巴马没有给出这段残忍的视频将改变美国对伊策略的任何信号，不过他发誓，要保护美国人不受武装分子侵袭，并将肇事者绳之以法。他没有提及索特洛夫。视频显示，索特洛夫穿着一套与福利类似的桔色服装。一名蒙面武装分子在视频中表示，索特洛夫的性命取决于奥巴马“接下来的行为”。
“When people harm Americans, we do what’s necessary to see that justice is done, and we act against ISIL standing alongside others,” the president said Wednesday, using another name for the militant group.
总统在周三表示，“如果有人伤害美国人，我们会采取必要举措，确保正义得到伸张。我们会与其他人一起，打击ISIL。”ISIL是该激进组织的另一种称呼。
But the killing of Mr. Foley and the subsequent threat of another slaying if the United States continues to target militants in Syria and Iraq creates a searing and personal dilemma for the president: he cannot give in to demands from terrorists, but continuing the bombing of militants in Iraq could lead directly to another gruesome death of an American.
然而，福利的死，以及如果美国继续袭击叙利亚和伊拉克激进分子就会导致另一名人质被杀的威胁，让奥巴马陷入了痛苦而个人化的两难境地：他无法对恐怖分子的要求让步，但继续轰炸伊拉克的武装分子却可能直接导致另一名美国人惨死。
The video could intensify pressure on Mr. Obama to broaden the American military offensive against ISIS, which the president has described as a limited mission to protect American personnel and provide humanitarian aid. As recently as Monday, Mr. Obama said it was up to Iraqi and Kurdish forces to take the lead in fighting the militant group, promising “strong support” from the United States if they worked together to do so.
这段视频可能会增加奥巴马的压力，迫使其扩大美国对ISIS的军事进攻。奥巴马曾表示，此次行动的目的是保护美国人员安全和提供人道主义援助，规模有限。就在本周一，奥巴马称，对抗ISIS的战斗应由伊拉克政府军和库尔德军队主导，并承诺，如果两者联手抗敌，美国会提供“强大的支持”。
The Pentagon was not warned beforehand that ISIS was going to behead Mr. Foley, officials said.
官员们称，五角大楼没有事先得到ISIS将斩首福利的消息。
Less than an hour after Mr. Obama spoke, the United States Central Command announced that American warplanes had conducted 14 airstrikes on ISIS targets in the hours after the video was released. The strikes all took place near the Mosul Dam, central command said in a news release.
奥巴马发表演讲后的一小时内，美军中央司令部(United States Central Command)宣布，在视频公布后的几小时里，美国的战斗机已经对ISIS的多个目标发动了14次空袭。中央司令部在新闻稿中称，空袭全部在摩苏尔大坝附近展开。
“These strikes were under authority to support Iraqi security forces and Kurdish defense force operations, as well as to protect critical infrastructure, U.S. personnel and facilities, and support humanitarian efforts,” the release said.
文中写道，“授权这些空袭是为了支持伊拉克的安全部队和库尔德防御部队的行动，同时保护重要的基础设施、美国人员和设施，并支持人道主义行动。”
The State Department also forwarded a request to the Pentagon — which the State Department is evaluating —to send around 300 more troops to Iraq for security, a United States official said.
一名美国官员表示，美国国务院还向五角大楼发出了一个请求：增派约300名美军士兵前往伊拉克保障安全。
The four-minute, 40-second video was posted on YouTube but the website later took it down. Titled “A Message to America,” it shows Mr. Foley kneeling in a desert landscape, clad in an orange jumpsuit in an apparent reference to the uniforms worn by prisoners at the American military detention camp in Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Standing to his left is a masked ISIS fighter who begins speaking in English, with what sounds like an East London accent. Pulling out a knife, he says that Mr. Foley’s execution is in retaliation for the recent American airstrikes ordered by Mr. Obama against the extremist group in Iraq.
这则4分40秒长的视频名为《给美国的讯息》(A Message to America)，最初发布在YouTube上，后来被网站撤下。视频中，福利跪在沙漠中，身穿橙色连体服——貌似参考了美国在古巴的关塔纳摩军事监狱的囚服。他的左边站着一名蒙面的ISIS武装分子。此人讲的是英语，听起来是伦敦东区口音。他抽出一把刀，并说对福利的处决是对近期在奥巴马的命令下美国在伊拉克境内空袭该极端组织的报复。