The gunman who committed the massacre at a popular gay nightclub in Orlando used multiple Facebook accounts to write posts and make searches about the Islamic State. “Now taste the Islamic state vengeance,” he declared, denouncing “the filthy ways of the west.” He even searched for references to the massacre while he was carrying it out, a United States senator revealed on Thursday.
一位联邦参议员本周四透露，在奥兰多一家热门同性恋夜店发生的大规模枪击案中，凶手使用了多个Facebook账户来发帖子以及搜索伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的消息。“现在来尝尝伊斯兰国复仇的滋味吧，”他宣称，并对“西方的肮脏”进行了谴责。他甚至在进行杀戮的同时还在搜索这起事件的消息。
In his posts, the gunman, Omar Mateen, called on the United States and Russia to stop the bombing campaign against the Islamic State, the extremist group that controls parts of Syria and Iraq, pledged allegiance to the group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and said, “may Allah accept me,” Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin wrote in a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chairman and chief executive.
来自威斯康星州的联邦参议员罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)在致Facebook董事长兼首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的信中写道，奥兰多案的凶手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)在帖子中呼吁美国和俄罗斯停止轰炸已控制叙利亚和伊拉克部分地区的极端组织伊斯兰国。马廷还宣誓效忠伊斯兰国头目阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)，并说“愿安拉接受我”。
“You kill innocent women and children by doing us airstrikes,” Mr. Mateen wrote in one post, according to the senator. “Now taste the Islamic state vengeance.”
约翰逊称，马廷在一则贴子中写道，“你们空袭我们，杀害无辜的妇孺，现在来尝尝伊斯兰国复仇的滋味吧。”
And in what Mr. Johnson described as the gunman’s final post, he wrote, “In the next few days you will see attacks from the Islamic state in the usa.”
约翰逊说，他在最后一则帖子中表示，“在接下来的几天里，你会看到伊斯兰国对美国的攻击。”
Federal law enforcement officials and eyewitnesses have said that after killing and wounding scores of people at the Pulse nightclub early Sunday and taking hostages, Mr. Mateen, 29, declared his support for the Islamic State in phone conversations with the police. In the past, he had said he supported or belonged to other Islamist extremist groups, and he had expressed hatred of gay people.
联邦执法官员和目击者称，周日凌晨在“Pulse”夜店打死打伤数十人并劫持人质之后，29岁的马廷在与警方的电话交谈中宣称自己支持伊斯兰国。以前他曾自称支持或属于其他几个伊斯兰极端组织，还表达过对同性恋者的仇恨。
Law enforcement officials, and President Obama, have said that Mr. Mateen, the American-born son of Afghan immigrants, was influenced by radical propaganda that he found online. But so far, officials say, the evidence suggests that he was “self-radicalized” and acted alone, with no direct connection to any larger organization.
执法官员和美国总统奥巴马表示，美国出生的阿富汗移民之子马廷受到了他在网上发现的激进宣传的影响。不过官方称，截至目前的证据显示他属于“自我激进化”，而且是单独行动，不曾与哪个大型组织存在直接的联系。
On Thursday, the Central Intelligence Agency director, John O. Brennan, gave a grim assessment of the prospects for such attacks to continue. Though the Islamic State has been pushed back on battlefields in the Middle East, he said in testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, “our efforts have not reduced the group’s terrorism capabilities and global reach.”
周四，美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)做出了令人担忧的评估，表示此类袭击有可能还会发生。他出席参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)听证会时称，尽管伊斯兰国在中东战场上遭遇挫败，但“我们的努力并没有减弱这个组织散布恐怖主义的能力，没能遏制它在全球的影响力。”
About a third of the ISIS fighters in Syria and Iraq are believed to have been killed or to have deserted. But Mr. Brennan said the Islamic State was s intensifying its plans to stage attacks in the West, and was committed to continue using propaganda to inspire “lone wolf” attacks like Mr. Mateen’s.
位于叙利亚和伊朗境内的伊斯兰国武装分子据信有大概三分之一已丧命或叛逃。但布伦南表示，伊斯兰国在加强袭击西方的计划，决心继续利用宣传来激发“独狼”去实施马廷那一类的袭击。
Senator Johnson, a Republican who leads the Committee on Homeland Security, wrote in his letter to Mr. Zuckerberg that his staff had found that “five Facebook accounts were apparently associated with Omar Mateen.” He asked that Facebook provide the committee with all information on any accounts tied to the gunman, including activity logs, messages, photos and posts. The letter, dated Wednesday and made public on Thursday, asked the company to comply by June 29.
约翰逊是参议院国土安全委员会(Committee on Homeland Security)主席，来自共和党。在给扎克伯格的信中，他写道，手下员工发现“有五个Facebook账户看起来与奥马尔·马廷存在关联”。他请求Facebook为委员会提供与这名凶手有关联的任何账户的所有信息，包括活动日志、讯息、照片和帖子。这封落款时间为周三的信件在周四公开，信中请Facebook在6月29日之前予以配合。
Mr. Mateen frequently used Facebook to search for information on offices of the F.B.I. and other law enforcement agencies, and last month, he searched for information on the couple who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State and then killed 14 people in December in San Bernardino, Calif., Mr. Johnson wrote. On June 4, he conducted a Facebook search for “Baghdadi Speech.”
约翰逊在文中表示，马廷频繁地使用Facebook搜寻有关联邦调查局(FBI)等执法机构办公地点的信息。上个月，他搜索了有关一对夫妇的信息。这对夫妇发誓效忠伊斯兰国，后来于去年12月在加州圣贝纳迪诺杀害了14人。6月4日，马廷又在Facebook上搜索了“巴格达迪的讲话”。
And on Sunday morning, after opening fire at the Pulse nightclub and while a three-hour standoff with police was underway, “Mateen apparently searched for ‘Pulse Orlando’ and ‘Shooting,’ ” the letter states.
信中还提到，周日凌晨，在Pulse夜店开火后与警方对峙的三个小时里，“马廷似乎以‘奥兰多Pulse’和‘枪击’为关键词进行了搜索”。
The disclosure by Mr. Johnson came shortly before Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., arrived in Orlando to meet privately with the scores of families who lost sons, daughters, siblings and partners and to offer the condolences of a nation that is still reeling.
约翰逊公开这些信息之后不久，奥巴马和副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)抵达奥兰多，与几十名在枪击案中失去子女、兄弟姐妹和伴侣的遇难者家属进行私下会面，送去国家的慰问。整个美国还没有从此事引发的震荡中恢复。
On Thursday, investigators were still searching for answers to the shooting. In recent days, they have interviewed Mr. Mateen’s wife, along with relatives, friends and anyone who may have had contact with him.
周四的时候，调查人员还在寻找与这起枪击案有关的答案。最近几天，他们询问了马廷的妻子、他的亲人、朋友，以及任何可能与他有过联系的人。
His wife, Noor Zahi Salman, has told the F.B.I. that she tried to talk her husband out of carrying out an attack, but that she once drove him to Pulse and went with him to buy ammunition, law enforcement officials say. On Wednesday, Justice Department officials declined to say whether Ms. Salman might face criminal charges.
执法官员表示，马廷的妻子努尔·扎希·萨尔曼(Noor Zahi Salman)告诉FBI，她曾试图劝说丈夫不要采取袭击行动，但她却开车送他到Pulse，还和他一起去购买武器。周三，司法部官员拒绝透露萨尔曼是否会受到刑事指控。
The assault by Mr. Mateen, who used an assault rifle and a handgun, left 49 people dead and 53 wounded — the worst mass shooting in American history. Most of the victims were lesbian or gay, Hispanic, or both.
马廷使用一把突击步枪和一把手枪实施了袭击，导致49人死亡，53人受伤，造成了美国历史上最严重的大规模枪击事件。受害者大多为同性恋、西语裔，或者二者兼具。
Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, said Mr. Mateen appeared to have been motivated by a mixture of violent radicalization and hatred for gays and lesbians. His former wife has described him as mentally ill.
来自加利福尼亚州的民主党众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)表示，马廷的行为似乎是暴力激进化和对同性恋的仇恨两种因素共同促成的。他的前妻表示他精神不太正常。
During the standoff, Mr. Mateen told the police that he had explosives as well as firearms. And he referred to other gunmen working with him. Investigators have found no evidence for either claim. Mr. Mateen died in a shootout with the police after they breached a wall of the nightclub.
在僵持过程中，马廷告诉警方他不仅有枪，还携带着炸药。他还提到有其他枪手与他一同行动。调查人员一直没有找到能证实这两项声明的证据。警方攻破夜店的一面墙之后，马廷在与警方的枪战中被击毙。