LOS ANGELES — President Obama on Thursday called for Congress to strip away tax advantages that have encouraged a rush of mergers and acquisitions that give companies an overseas base while they maintain their presence in the United States.
洛杉矶——本周四，奥巴马总统呼吁国会取消某些税收优惠规定，因为很多公司为了钻这些规定的空子，纷纷进行并购，从而把总部迁至海外，但它们在美国的业务活动仍然照旧展开。
In an appearance at a technical college that was intended to focus on job training, the president used unusually harsh language to describe American companies that acquire overseas companies to relocate for tax reasons, known as inversions. He said they were renouncing their American citizenship by “cherry-picking” the nation’s tax laws at the expense of ordinary taxpayers.
奥巴马在一所职业培训技术学校发表讲话时，用不同寻常的严厉措辞来形容这些美国企业；它们收购海外公司，迁到其他国家，图的就是税收方面的好处，这种现象被称为“反转”。奥巴马说，这些公司正在放弃美国国籍，以便钻美国税收法律的空子，而付出代价的是普通纳税人。
“These companies are cherry-picking the rules, and it damages the country’s finances,” Mr. Obama said. “It adds to the deficit. It sticks you with the tab to make up for what they are stashing offshore.”
“一些公司正在钻规则的空子，这种情况损害了美国的财政状况，”奥巴马说。“它导致赤字增加，这些公司将财富藏匿海外，却让你们你买单。”
“I don’t care if it’s legal — it’s wrong,” he said, prompting the audience to boo the companies taking advantage of the practice.
“我不管这合不合法——这就是不对，”奥巴马说。此番言论引发了听众们针对这些占便宜的企业的嘘声。
Last week, the pharmaceutical giant AbbVie, based near Chicago, agreed to buy its European rival Shire for around $54 billion, allowing it to reincorporate in Britain. The move would lower its effective tax rate to 13 percent by 2016 from 22.6 percent in 2013, saving millions of dollars a year.
上周，总部在芝加哥附近的制药巨头艾伯维(AbbVie)承诺以约540亿美元的价格，收购其欧洲竞争对手沙尔制药(Shire)，这样它就可以把总部迁到英国。艾伯维2013年的实际税率为22.6%，反转合并之后，2016年的税率将降至13%，每年可以节省数以百万美元计的资金。
Walgreen, the drugstore chain, has said it is considering a buyout of the British chain Alliance Boots that would similarly relocate its tax headquarters.
连锁药店沃尔格林(Walgreen)则表示，正在考虑收购英国连锁店联合博姿(Alliance Boots)，如果交易达成，沃尔格林的总部也会迁至海外。
There is growing consensus on Capitol Hill that the rush of inversions should be stopped. Lawmakers from both parties worry that the more companies move their headquarters to countries like Ireland and the Netherlands, the more the American tax base is being compromised.
国会日趋一致地认为，应该阻止这种反转合并潮流。两大党派的议员们担心，把总部迁到爱尔兰和荷兰等国的美国企业越多，美国的税收基数蒙受的损失就越大。
Democrats and Republicans seem to agree that a short-term fix is needed, but there is partisan disagreement about what anti-inversion legislation should look like.
民主党和共和党似乎都认为，有必要出台一个短期解决方案，但是对于“防反转”立法的具体内容，两党的意见却不统一。
On Thursday, the president called on members of Congress to take action on inversions even if they disagreed with his broader calls for changes to the tax system that would lower corporate rates — changes that Republicans have refused to consider.
本周四，奥巴马向国会议员们发出呼吁：即便他们不同意他更加广泛的改革税制的呼吁——这会降低公司税率，而共和党人拒绝考虑进行这种改革——也要采取行动来阻止反转。
“You shouldn’t get to call yourself an American company only when you want a handout from the American taxpayers,” he said.
“如果你一心只想从美国纳税人那里获得施舍，你就不应该自称是美国公司，”他说。
The decision to focus on the tax loophole is part of a strategy to position the president on the side of what White House officials call a new economic patriotism. He is pressing that argument as the fall midterm elections approach.
把焦点放在税收漏洞上，这是一个策略的组成部分；该策略旨在把总统置于白宫官员所说的“新经济爱国主义”阵营之中。随着秋季中期选举的临近，奥巴马正在大力提倡这种观念。
Earlier Thursday, Mark J. Mazur, the Treasury Department’s assistant secretary for tax policy, made the case that any new laws targeting inversions should be backdated to May 2014, potentially affecting a number of multibillion-dollar deals.
本周四早些时候，财政部税收政策助理部长马克·J·马祖尔(Mark J. Mazur)提出，任何“防反转”的新法律都应该追溯至2014年5月；如果这样，就会有很多价值数十亿美元的交易受到影响。
Whether any legislation against inversions is retroactive has quickly emerged as a sticking point between Democrats, who favor retroactivity, and Republicans, who have concerns about backdating any new laws.
关于“防反转”的新法律是否应该具有追溯力，这一点迅速成为了两党之间的一个分歧点，民主党人赞成溯及既往，但共和党对于任何有追溯力新法律都心存疑虑。
In a blog post, Mr. Mazur said that there was ample precedent for retroactive tax legislation, and signaled that the administration would push for it.
马祖尔在一篇博客文章中表示，在具有追溯力的税务立法方面，以前有过足够多的先例，他还暗示政府会朝着这个方向推动。
“Congress has frequently imposed retroactive effective dates for provisions that shut down egregious tax loopholes,” he wrote. “In these cases, backdated implementation is often important to ensure that companies do not take advantage of the lengthy legislative process to rush through transactions exploiting the loopholes they know they are about to lose.”
“在制定用来堵住惊人税收漏洞的规定时，国会经常会指定追溯日期，”他写道。“在这种情况下，追溯力往往都很重要，因为立法程序比较冗长，公司可能会钻这个空子，加快交易速度，​​赶在漏洞被堵住之前利用它。追溯力可以避免这种现象的发生。”
The administration has proposed effectively banning inversions, making such legislation retroactive to May. That would affect several big deals, not only AbbVie’s, but also Medtronic’s $43 billion takeover of Covidien.
政府的建议基本上是禁止反转，并让“防反转”立法追溯到今年5月。这会影响到数笔巨额交易，比如艾伯维那笔，以及美敦力(Medtronic)斥资430亿美元收购柯惠医疗(Covidien)公司的交易。
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew sent letters last week to senior lawmakers, pressing the case for retroactive legislation.
美国财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)上周致函一些资深议员，敦促他们支持这项立法进行追溯。
But at a Senate Finance Committee hearing this week, Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, signaled he would not support backdating a new law.
但在参议院财政委员会(Senate Finance Committee)本周召开的一个听证会上，犹他州共和党参议员奥林·哈奇(Orrin Hatch))暗示，他不会支持具有追溯力的新法律。