It has been a busy news week, what with voting rights, gay marriage and Paula Deen. Even so, it’s remarkable how little attention the news media gave to President Obama’s new “climate action plan.” Discount, if you like, the terrific speech he gave when unveiling the proposal; this is, nonetheless, a very big deal. For this time around, Mr. Obama wasn’t touting legislation we know won’t pass. The new plan is, instead, designed to rely on executive action. This means that, unlike earlier efforts to address climate change, it can bypass the anti-environmentalists who control the House of Representatives.
本周，投票权、同性婚姻和宝拉·迪恩(Paula Deen)事件让新闻界相当忙碌。即便如此，新闻媒体对奥巴马总统新的“气候行动计划”的关注之少，仍然令人惊讶。你当然可以无视他公开这个计划时发表的出色讲话，但这一计划还是非常重要。这一次，奥巴马不再鼓吹立法了，我们都知道这通不过。相反地，他的新计划将依靠行政措施。这就意味着，该计划跟我们应对气候变化的早期举措不一样，它可以绕过控制众议院的反环保主义者。
Republicans realize this, and they’re stamping their feet in frustration. All they can do, it seems, is fulminate (and perhaps scare the administration into backing down). Interestingly, however, right now they don’t seem eager to attack climate science, maybe because that would make them sound unreasonable (which they are). Instead, they’re going for the economic angle, denouncing the Obama administration for waging a “war on coal” that will destroy jobs.
共和党人意识到了这一点，他们正在沮丧地捶胸顿足。而他们所能做的，似乎也就是强烈抗议了（也许还会恐吓政府，令它妥协）。然而，有趣的是，现在他们似乎并不热衷于攻击气候科学，也许是因为那样做会让他们听上去不讲道理（他们本来就是）。现在他们转而从经济角度出发，谴责奥巴马政府发动了一场会减少就业岗位的“煤炭战争”。
And you know what? They’re half-right. The new Obama plan is, to some extent, a war on coal — because reducing our use of coal is, necessarily, going to be part of any serious effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But making war on coal won’t destroy jobs. In fact, serious new regulation of greenhouse emissions could be just what our economy needs.
其实，他们也没有完全说错。从某种程度而言，奥巴马的新计划就是在对煤炭开战——因为所有认真想减少温室气体排放的措施，都必然会要求减少煤炭的使用量。但是，向煤炭开战并不会减少就业岗位。事实上，认真为温室气体排放立新规，可能正好是美国经济所需要的。
So, what is the plan? Mainly, Mr. Obama announced his intention to use the powers of the Environmental Protection Agency to impose limits on carbon emissions from power plants. Such plants aren’t the only source of greenhouse gases, but they do account for about 40 percent of emissions. Furthermore, regulating power-plant emissions is standard practice; we already have policies limiting these plants’ emissions of pollutants such as sulfur dioxide and mercury, so adding carbon to the list isn’t that much of a departure, at least in principle.
那么，要怎么做呢？首先，奥巴马表示他打算利用国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)的影响力，对电厂的碳排放加以限制。这类电厂不是温室气体的唯一来源，但它们的排放量的确占到了总排放的约40％。而且，监管发电厂的排放量本来就是一个标准做法，我们已经制定了一些政策来限制这些工厂排放的其他污染物，比如二氧化硫和汞，所以把碳加到这个名单里也不算是太离谱，至少原则上不算。
But wouldn’t imposing carbon limits raise the cost of electricity? And wouldn’t that destroy jobs? The answer is, yes and no.
但是，对碳排放进行限制不是会提高电力成本吗？那不就会减少就业岗位吗？答案是：“是”也“不是”。
Yes, new rules on carbon emissions would increase the costs of electricity generation. Power companies would probably close some old coal-fired plants, turning to more expensive lower-emission alternatives — to some extent renewables like wind, but mainly natural gas. Furthermore, they would be forced to invest in new capacity to replace the old sources.
是的，实行新的碳排放规则会增加发电成本。电力公司可能会关闭一些旧的燃煤电厂，转向成本更高的低排放替代发电方式 —— 部分是可再生能源，比如风力，但主要还是使用天然气。此外，为了取代旧的燃煤电厂，他们将不得不投建新产能。
All of this would, indeed, lead to somewhat higher electricity bills — although not nearly as high as the usual suspects claim. It’s kind of funny, actually: right-wingers love to praise the power of free markets and declare that the private sector can deal with any problem, but then turn around and insist that the private sector will just throw up its hands in despair and collapse in the face of new environmental rules. The actual lesson of history — for example, from efforts to protect the ozone layer and reduce acid rain — is that business can generally reduce emissions much more cheaply than you think, as long as regulation is flexible to allow innovative solutions.
事实上，所有这些都会导致电费的增加——不过远没有人们通常认为的那么多。其实这有点搞笑：右翼人士喜欢颂扬自由市场的力量，声称私营企业可以应付任何问题，但是，他们然后又掉过头来坚称私营企业将会绝望地举手投降，在新规则的面前崩溃。真正的历史经验 ——例如，从保护臭氧层和减少酸雨等行动中得出的经验 —— 是这样的：只要监管条例比较灵活，企业可以采取创新的解决方案，它们减少排放量的成本通常比你以为的要低廉得多。
Still, there will be some cost. Won’t this destroy jobs? Actually, no.
尽管如此，这也还会有一定的成本。这难道不会减少就业岗位吗？实际上不会。
It’s always important to remember that what ails the U.S. economy right now isn’t lack of productive capacity, but lack of demand. The housing bust, the overhang of household debt and ill-timed cuts in public spending have created a situation in which nobody wants to spend; and because your spending is my income and my spending is your income, this leads to a depressed economy over all.
我们一定要记住，目前影响美国经济的不是产能不足，而是需求不足。房地产市场的不景气，家庭债务的威胁，削减公共开支的错误时机，这些都导致了这样一种局面：谁都不想花钱；由于你的支出就是我的收入，我的支出就是你的收入，这就造成了整体经济的不景气。
How would forcing the power industry to clean up its act worsen this situation? It wouldn’t, because neither costs nor lack of capacity are constraining the economy right now.
迫使电力行业改进其操作又怎么会导致这种情况的恶化呢？它不会，因为产能不足和成本都不是当前经济的制约因素。
And, as I’ve already suggested, environmental action could actually have a positive effect. Suppose that electric utilities, in order to meet the new rules, decide to close some existing power plants and invest in new, lower-emission capacity. Well, that’s an increase in spending, and more spending is exactly what our economy needs.
而且，正如我已经提到的，环保行动实际上可能会发挥积极的作用。假设电力公司为了适应这个新规则，决定关闭一些现有发电厂，并投资修建新的、低排放的产能。那么这就是一种支出的增加，而我们的经济需要的，正好就是更多的支出。
O.K., it’s still not clear whether any of this will happen. Some of the people I talk to are cynical about the new climate initiative, believing that the president won’t actually follow through. All I can say is, I hope they’re wrong.
当然，上述情况究竟会不会发生仍不清楚。我认识的一些人对这个新的气候计划心存怀疑，觉得奥巴马不会真的落实贯彻它。对此我只能说，我希望是他们错了。
Near the end of his speech, the president urged his audience to: “Invest. Divest. Remind folks there’s no contradiction between a sound environment and strong economic growth.” Normally, one would be tempted to dismiss this as the sound of someone waving away the need for hard choices. But, in this case, it was simple good sense: We really can invest in new energy sources, divest from old sources, and actually make the economy stronger. So let’s do it.
奥巴马在发言接近尾声时，鼓励听众们说：“要投资。要剥离。要提醒大家，良好的环境和强劲的经济增长并不矛盾。”通常人们对这种说法不太买账，认为它是逃避艰难选择的借口。但这一次，它纯粹是对形势的良好把握：我们真的可以投资新能源，剥离旧能源，同时促进经济的更强发展。那么，就让我们行动起来吧。