WASHINGTON — President Obama acknowledged in an interview broadcast on Sunday that the United States had underestimated the rise of the Islamic State militant group, which has seized control of a broad swath of territory in the Middle East, and had placed too much trust in the Iraqi military, allowing the region to become “ground zero for jihadists around the world.”
华盛顿——在周日播出的访谈节目中，奥巴马总统承认美国低估了激进组织伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的崛起，而且过于相信伊拉克军队，从而使得该地区“成为世界各地的圣战分子的基地”。伊斯兰国已夺取了对中东广阔地区的控制权。
Reflecting on how a president who wanted to disentangle the United States from wars in the Middle East ended up redeploying to Iraq and last week expanding air operations into Syria, Mr. Obama pointed to assessments by the intelligence agencies that said they were surprised by the rapid advances made in both countries by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
身为总统，奥巴马曾经希望使美国摆脱中东战争，最终他却再次向伊拉克部署军力，并于上周将空袭行动扩展至叙利亚。在反思这一点时，奥巴马提到了各大情报机构所做的评估，称伊斯兰国（也被称为ISIS或ISIL）在这两个国家的快速推进出乎了它们的意料。
“Our head of the intelligence community, Jim Clapper, has acknowledged that, I think, they underestimated what had been taking place in Syria,” Mr. Obama said on “60 Minutes,” the CBS News program, referring to James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence. Mr. Obama added that the agencies had overestimated the ability and will of the Iraqi Army to fight such Sunni extremists. “That’s true. That’s absolutely true,” he said.
奥巴马在接受CBS新闻频道的《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目采访时说，“我们的情报负责人吉姆·克拉珀已经承认，我想是这样，他们低估了叙利亚的形势。”他口中的这位负责人是国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)。奥巴马还表示，情报机构高估了伊拉克政府军抗击逊尼派极端分子的能力和意愿。他说，“这是真的，这绝对是真的。”
But he rebutted critics who say his refusal to intervene more directly in the Syrian civil war and his decision to pull all American troops out of Iraq in 2011 had created conditions that allowed the rise of the Islamic State. Instead, he pointed a finger at Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, until recently the prime minister of Iraq. “When we left, we had left them a democracy that was intact; a military that was well-equipped; and the ability then to chart their own course,” Mr. Obama said. “And that opportunity was squandered over the course of five years or so because the prime minister, Maliki, was much more interested in consolidating his Shia base.”
有人批评，奥巴马拒绝更直接地干预叙利亚内战的行为，以及下令美军于2011年全部撤离伊拉克的决定，为伊斯兰国的崛起创造了条件。奥巴马对此予以了反驳，并将矛头转向了最近卸任的伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)。“我们撤军时，留下了一个完整的民主社会、一支装备精良的军队，还有规划自己的前进道路的能力，”奥巴马说。“在过去大约五年的时间里，伊拉克浪费了这个机会，因为马利基总理对巩固自己的什叶派基础更感兴趣。”
By contrast, he praised Mr. Maliki’s newly installed successor, Haider al-Abadi, whom he met in New York last week, for assembling a more inclusive government that may undercut Sunni support for the Islamic State. Mr. Abadi “so far at least has sent all the right signals,” Mr. Obama said. “We can’t do this for them.”
相比之下，奥巴马对新任总理——马利基的继任者海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)——表示称赞，称他组建了一个更具包容性的政府，或许会削弱逊尼派对伊斯兰国的支持。奥巴马上周在纽约与他举行了会晤。阿巴迪“到目前为止至少发出了各种正确的信号，”奥巴马说。“我们不能代替他们做这件事。”
But he was measured in that assessment, saying there had been “some progress” by the new Baghdad government. “I wouldn’t say great yet,” he said.
不过，奥巴马措辞谨慎，称新的巴格达政府取得了“一些进步”。“还不能说是巨大的进步，”他表示。
Mr. Obama conceded that his strategy would be less likely to succeed in Syria, where he is working at odds with the government rather than in tandem. Mr. Obama has called for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to step down, but now the two share an enemy in the Islamic State. The United States’ plan relies on trying to build up a separate rebel force that can take on both Mr. Assad’s government and the Islamic State, but Mr. Obama dismissed as “mythology” the notion that he should have done that two years ago.
奥巴马承认，他的策略在叙利亚取得成功的可能性更小。他与叙利亚政府立场相左，步调并不一致。奥巴马一直呼吁叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)下台，但两人现在面临共同的敌人——伊斯兰国。美国的计划有赖于努力打造另外一股能够同时对付阿萨德政府和伊斯兰国的反对派势力。不过，对于他应该在两年前就采取这一举措的说法，奥巴马认为“太虚幻”。
“We’ve got a campaign plan that has a strong chance for success in Iraq,” he said. “I think Syria is a more challenging situation.”
“我们有个行动计划，很可能会在伊拉克取得成功，”他说。“我想，叙利亚的局势更具挑战性。”
The House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, suggested on Sunday that airstrikes might not be enough and that American ground forces might ultimately have to be deployed. “These are barbarians,” Mr. Boehner said on the ABC News program “This Week.” “They intend to kill us. And if we don’t destroy them first, we’re going to pay the price.” Asked if he would recommend sending American ground troops if no other country would do it, Mr. Boehner said, “We have no choice.”
来自俄亥俄州的联邦众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)周日表示，空袭或许还不够，最终可能需要派遣美国的地面部队。“这些都是野蛮之徒，”博纳在ABC新闻频道的《本周》(This Week)节目中说。“他们想置我们于死地。如果我们不先发制人，就会付出代价。”当被问到如果其他国家不愿派遣地面部队，他是否会建议美国这样做时，博纳说，“我们别无选择。”
Mr. Boehner also said that while he believes Mr. Obama has the authority to conduct airstrikes without additional permission from Congress, he would summon lawmakers back to Washington from a recess to vote if the president asked him to. “I’d bring the Congress back,” he said.
博纳还称，虽然他相信，奥巴马拥有在不经国会许可的情况下发动空袭的权力，但是如果总统提出要求，他还是会把正处于休会期的议员召回华盛顿进行投票。他说，“我会让国会的人回来。”
Speaking on another news show, “Face the Nation” on CBS, Senator Timothy Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, pressed his opinion that the president needs congressional permission and accused Mr. Obama, a close ally, of inconsistency. “It really concerns me that the president would assert he has the ability to do this unilaterally when as a candidate for president he made very plain that the president cannot unilaterally start a war without Congress,” Mr. Kaine said.
在CBS的新闻节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)上，来自弗吉尼亚州的民主党参议员蒂莫西·凯恩(Timothy Kaine)坚称总统需要得到国会的批准，并指责其亲密盟友奥巴马前后不一。“在竞选总统的时候，他非常明确地表示过，总统不能在不经国会批准的情况下单方面开战，但是现在他却强调自己拥有单方面行动的权力。这实在是让我焦心，”凯恩说。
American intelligence agencies were still trying to determine whether airstrikes in Syria had killed the leader of a separate network affiliated with Al Qaeda called the Khorasan Group. The SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist social media sites, reported on Sunday that a Qaeda-associated Twitter account declared that Mohsin al-Fadhli, the Khorasan leader, had died.
美国情报机构仍在试图弄清楚，对叙利亚境内的空袭究竟是否已经消灭了“呼罗珊集团”(Khorasan Group)的最高领导人。呼罗珊是另一家与基地组织(Al Qaeda)有关联的团体。追踪极端主义社交媒体网站的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)周日表示，一个与基地组织有关的Twitter账号宣布，呼罗珊的领导人穆赫辛·法德赫里(Muhsin al-Fadhli)现已身亡。