WASHINGTON — As Russia dispatched more forces and tightened its grip on the Crimean Peninsula on Sunday, President Obama embarked on a strategy intended to isolate Moscow and prevent it from seizing more Ukrainian territory even as he was pressured at home to respond more forcefully.
华盛顿——周日，俄罗斯向克里米亚半岛派遣了更多兵力，加强了对该地的控制，奥巴马总统由此启动了一项旨在孤立莫斯科、阻止它侵占更多乌克兰领土的策略，虽然他在国内面临着加大回应力度的压力。
Working the telephone from the Oval Office, Mr. Obama rallied allies, sent Secretary of State John Kerry to Kiev and approved a series of diplomatic and economic moves intended to “make it hurt,” as one administration official put it. But the president found himself besieged by advice to take more assertive action.
奥巴马在椭圆形办公室打电话召集盟友，派国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)前往基辅，并批准了一系列旨在“让俄罗斯为此事吃到苦头”的外交和经济举措——这种说法来自一名政府官员。但总统仍然发现，到处都有人建议他实施力度更大的行动。
“Create a democratic noose around Putin’s Russia,” urged Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. “Revisit the missile defense shield,” suggested Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida. “Cancel Sochi,” argued Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who leads the Intelligence Committee, referring to the Group of 8 summit meeting to be hosted by President Vladimir V. Putin. Kick “him out of the G-8” altogether, said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the Democratic whip.
“在普京的俄罗斯周边制造一个民主套索，”南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)如是呼吁。“重新评估导弹防御体系，”佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)如是建议。“退出索契峰会，”领导众议院情报委员会的密歇根州共和党众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)表示，他这里指的是将由俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)主持召开的G8峰会。伊利诺伊州参议员、民主党督导理查德·J·德宾(Richard J.Durbin)则说，干脆“把他赶出G8”。
The Russian occupation of Crimea has challenged Mr. Obama as has no other international crisis, and at its heart, the advice seemed to pose the same question: Is Mr. Obama tough enough to take on the former K.G.B. colonel in the Kremlin?
对于奥巴马来说，俄罗斯占领克里米亚一事带来的挑战比其他任何国际危机都大，在这场危机的中心，相关建议提出的似乎都是同一个问题：奥巴马是否足够强硬，能够对克里姆林宫的前KGB上校发起进攻？
On Syria, Iran, Libya and Egypt, the political factions in Washington have been as torn as the president over the proper balance of firmness and flexibility. But as an old nuclear-armed adversary returns to Cold War form, the consequences seem greater, the challenges more daunting and the voices more unified.
面对叙利亚、伊朗、利比亚和埃及问题的时候，华盛顿各政治派系的分歧一直非常大，棘手程度一如奥巴马在坚定性与灵活性之间维持适当平衡的任务。但是，随着拥有核武的老对头回到冷战时的形态，后果似乎更加严重，挑战似乎更加严峻，各方的呼声也似乎更加统一。
“It’s the most important, most difficult foreign-policy test of his presidency,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a career diplomat who became under secretary of state in the George W. Bush administration. “The stakes are very high for the president because he is the NATO leader. There’s no one in Europe who can approach him in power. He’s going to have to lead.”
“这是他总统任期内最重要、最艰难的外交政策考验，”曾任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府副国务卿的职业外交官R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R. Nicholas Burns)说。“奥巴马是北约领袖，所以他面临的风险非常高。欧洲没有哪个人的权力能与他相提并论。他不得不担起领导任务。”
Mr. Obama came to office with little foreign-policy experience and has been repeatedly tested by a new world in which the main threats are Islamic extremism and civil war. Now the Crimea crisis has presented him with an elemental threat much like the one that confronted his predecessors for four decades — a geopolitical struggle in the middle of Europe. 
上任之时，奥巴马在外交政策上的经验并不丰富，在这个主要威胁来自伊斯兰极端主义和内战的新世界里，他已经多次经受考验。目前，克里米亚危机给他带来了一次重大威胁，此次威胁与他的一些前任面对了四十年的威胁非常相似——欧洲中部的地缘政治斗争。
First, the pro-Russian government in Kiev, now deposed, defied his warnings not to shoot protesters, and now Mr. Putin has ignored his admonitions to stay out of Ukraine.
首先，目前已经垮台的基辅亲俄罗斯政府竟然不顾他的警告，朝抗议者开了枪；如今，普京也没有理会他让俄罗斯待在乌克兰境外的警告。
Caught off guard, Mr. Obama is left to play catch-up while Mr. Putin establishes reality on the ground. With 6,000 Russian troops being reinforced on Sunday by thousands more, Mr. Putin effectively severed the peninsula, with its largely Russian-speaking population, from the rest of Ukraine.
奥巴马猝不及防，只好在普京着手制造既成事实的时候开始奋起直追。周日，普京又派了几千人去增援本来就有6000人的俄罗斯军队，从事实上使这个居民基本讲俄语的半岛从乌克兰分离了出去。
“Russian forces now have complete operational control of the Crimean peninsula,” a senior administration official said on the condition of anonymity.
一名高级政府官员表示， “俄罗斯军队现在已经完全掌控了克里米亚半岛。”这名官员要求匿名。
No significant political leaders in Washington urged a military response, but many wanted Mr. Obama to go further than he has so far, including sanctions against Russia and economic support for Ukraine.
在华盛顿，没有哪个重要的政治领导人呼吁进行军事回应，但却有很多人希望奥巴马采取进一步的举措，包括对俄罗斯进行制裁，为乌克兰提供经济支持。
The president has spoken out against Mr. Putin’s actions and termed them a “breach of international law.” But he has left the harshest condemnations to Mr. Kerry, who on Sunday called them a “brazen act of aggression” and “a stunning willful choice by President Putin,” accusing him of “weakness” and “desperation.”
奥巴马已经公开抨击了普京的行动，称这些行动“违反了国际法”。不过，他把最尖刻的谴责言辞留给了克里，后者周日称这些行动是“无耻的侵略行为”，“普京总统令人震惊的蓄意选择”，并指责普京“软弱”、“铤而走险”。
As Mr. Obama spoke with his counterparts from Germany, Britain and Poland on Sunday, he decided to send Mr. Kerry and other diplomats to Europe to drum up support from NATO and other international institutions and find ways to shore up the economically fragile Ukrainian government.
周日与德国、英国及波兰的领导人通话时，奥巴马决定派克里和其他一些外交官去欧洲争取NATO及其他国际机构的支持，寻找办法来支撑经济脆弱的乌克兰政府。
In a series of television interviews, Mr. Kerry suggested that the United States might boycott the Sochi meeting in June and warned that Russia could be expelled from the G-8, although Germany publicly expressed opposition to that idea. But Mr. Obama offered Russia what aides called an “off ramp,” a face-saving way out of the crisis, by proposing that European observers take the place of Russian forces in Crimea to guard against the supposed threats to the Russian-speaking population cited by the Kremlin as justification for its intervention.
在一系列电视采访中，克里表示美国可能会抵制6月的索契峰会，并且警告称，俄罗斯可能会被踢出G8集团，尽管德国曾公开表示反对这个提议。不过，奥巴马向俄罗斯提供了一个其助手所谓的“退出”方案，也就是保全面子摆脱危机的方法。他提议用欧洲观察员来代替克里米亚的俄罗斯军队，防范针对俄语人口的所谓威胁。克里姆林宫进行干预，使用的理由正是这种威胁。
Mr. Obama’s aides said that they saw no evidence of such threats and considered the claim a bogus pretext, and that they wanted to call Mr. Putin’s bluff. Privately, they said they did not expect Mr. Putin to accept, and they conceded that Mr. Obama probably could not reverse the occupation of Crimea in the short term. They said they were focusing on blocking any further Russian move into eastern Ukraine that would split the country along ethnic lines.
奥巴马的助手们表示，他们没有看到此类威胁存在的证据，认为这是一个虚假的借口，并且想要普京拿出证明。私下里，他们说他们并不认为普京会接受这一要求，同时也承认，奥巴马多半无法在短期内扭转克里米亚被占领的局势。他们表示，他们现在的重点是阻止俄罗斯进一步入侵东乌克兰，这会致使乌克兰出现民族分裂。
The crisis has trained a harsh spotlight on Mr. Obama’s handling of foreign policy, with critics asserting that he has been too passive.
此次危机使奥巴马的外交手段暴露在苛刻的审视之下，批评人士纷纷断言他过于被动。
Mr. Corker traced the origins of Mr. Putin’s brash invasion to September when, in the face of bipartisan opposition in Congress, Mr. Obama pulled back from plans to conduct an airstrike on Syria in retaliation for a chemical-weapons attack on civilians. Instead, he accepted a Russian offer to work jointly to remove the chemical weapons.
考克称，普京之所以悍然入侵，根子是在去年的9月，当时，奥巴马不顾国会两党的反对，撤消了以空袭惩罚叙利亚针对平民的化学武器攻击的计划。奥巴马转而接受了俄罗斯的提议，共同努力，移除化学武器。
“I think, he saw weakness,” Corker said of Putin. “These are the consequences.”
“我认为，他当时就看出了奥巴马的软弱，”考克提到普京时说，“现在这些事情就是后果。”