HISTORIANS rate presidents by every conceivable quality. One survey of presidential scholars rates presidents along no fewer than 20 dimensions, from best luck (Washington) and best imagination (Theodore Roosevelt) to best intelligence (Jefferson) and best handling of Congress (Lyndon B. Johnson). And of course, there’s the ultimate prize: Best president, a distinction Lincoln and Franklin D. Roosevelt have traded back and forth since at least the first modern survey, in 1948.
历史学家以各种能想到的特性对历届总统进行评估。总统问题学者开展调查，从20多个方面评估总统，从最幸运（华盛顿[Washington]）、最有想象力（西奥多·罗斯福[Theodore Roosevelt]），到最聪明（杰斐逊[Jefferson]）、应对国会的能力最强（林登·B·约翰逊[Lyndon B. Johnson]）。当然，还有终极大奖：最佳总统，自1948年开展第一次当今时代的调查以来，林肯(Lincoln)和富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)轮流荣获这一称号。
What about least lame duck? President Obama is making a run for the title. Since the midterm elections, in his first month and a half as a lame duck, Mr. Obama has taken dramatic action on immigration, climate change and now, normalizing relations with Cuba.
最不跛的跛脚鸭是谁呢？奥巴马总统正在参与这一称号的争夺。自中期选举以来，在进入跛脚鸭时期的前一个半月，奥巴马在移民、气候变化问题上采取惊人举措，现在又开启了与古巴关系正常化的进程。
The idea of a lame duck goes back to the mid-18th century. Jobbers on the London Stock Exchange used the term to describe brokers who were near default. Such men, it was said, waddled off with their credit destroyed.
跛脚鸭的概念源于18世纪中期。伦敦证券交易所(London Stock Exchange)的股票经纪人用这个词语形容那些拖欠债务的经纪人。据称，这些人信誉被毁，只能蹒跚前行。
Americans adapted the term to politics. For more than 140 years after the creation of the American republic, senators and congressmen who lost re-election bids had a long five months left to serve out their terms. (Many gathered in a White House hallway known to Washington wags as Lame Duck Alley, desperately seeking patronage jobs from the president.)
美国人将这一说法用于政治领域。在美利坚共和国成立后的140多年间，在连任选举中失利的参议员和国会议员仍然还有五个月的任期。（其中很多人聚集在白宫走廊，渴望获得总统的任命，华盛顿那些爱开玩笑的人称之为跛脚鸭走廊。）
The second session of each Congress even came to be known as the “lame-duck session” — until 1933, when the 20th Amendment moved the end of congressional terms to January from March and created a 17-day lame-duck window between the beginning of the new Congress’s term and the end of the incumbent president’s term.
国会的第二个会期被称为“跛脚鸭会期”——直到1993年，《第二十条修正案》将国会任期的结束日期从3月改至1月，促使新一届国会上任与总统结束任期之间出现了17天的跛脚鸭时期。
But it was the 22nd Amendment, ratified in 1951, that truly invented the modern lame-duck presidency, by prohibiting presidents from running for a third term.
但真正开创当今跛脚鸭任期的是于1951年获得批准的《第二十二修正案》，该修正案禁止总统参与第三任期的竞选。
Mr. Obama is the fifth president since then to confront the problem of trying to remain effective during a final two-year congressional session. (The others were Dwight D. Eisenhower, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.)
奥巴马是从那时起第五位面临相关问题的总统，他们需要设法在最后两年的国会会期保持影响力。（其他四位包括德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔[Dwight D. Eisenhower]、罗纳德·里根[Ronald Reagan]、比尔·克林顿[Bill Clinton]和乔治·W·布什[George W. Bush]。）
Every one of these five faced, during their last two years, a House and a Senate controlled by the opposition party. Legislative accomplishments in these periods were few and far between. Reagan got mired in the muck of the Iran-contra affair. Mr. Clinton’s main accomplishment was avoiding conviction in the Senate after his impeachment in the House.
这五位总统在最后两年任期面对的都是由反对党控制的众议院和参议院。这段时期很少有立法成就。里根因为伊朗门事件而陷入困境。克林顿的主要成就是在遭到众议院弹劾后，避免了参议院的定罪。
But something strange has happened in our last two presidencies. The lame-duck phenomenon has changed. In our new political marketplace, the decline of powerful party organizations and the rise of hyperpartisan politics mean that presidents have much less political capital even at the height of their terms. At the same time, they have unprecedented capacity for unilateral executive authority. The great constraints on using that authority are re-election and the midterm congressional elections. But once those are over, the new end-of-term president is not a lame duck anymore. He is a new and more muscular animal altogether.
但过去两任总统身上发生了奇怪的事情。跛脚鸭现象有所改变。在我们新的政治市场中，权势强大的政党组织的衰落和两党分歧严重的政治形势的崛起意味着，即便在鼎盛时期，总统的政治资本也要少得多。与此同时，他们掌握着空前强大的单边行使行政权。连任竞选及中期国会选举可以在很大程度上限制行政权的行使。但一旦选举过后，任期即将结束的总统不再是跛脚鸭。他变成了焕然一新的、更加强大的政治人物。
Mr. Bush’s final two years in office were his best. In 2008 he displayed the fortitude to resist the laissez-faire do-nothings and helped keep us out of a second Great Depression through a bailout of the American International Group.
布什的最后两年任期可谓是他的最佳时期。他在2008年展示出了抗拒放任自由的无为做法的勇气，通过紧急援助美国国际集团(American International Group)，帮助我们避免陷入第二次“大萧条”。
Mr. Obama has been even more audacious in leveraging his executive power. He is acting for the first time as if he’s comfortable being president.
奥巴马在行使行政权方面更为大胆。他第一次表现出好像很享受担任总统的样子。
What else might an unfettered Mr. Obama do? First, he might realize that there is yet another election. Reagan is the only lame duck to have handed over the presidency to his own party. The lame duck who wants to be loyal to his party needs to avoid taking unpopular actions during his successor’s campaign. This means that Mr. Obama should concentrate his unilateral actions now, before the 2016 campaign begins in earnest.
不受约束的奥巴马还可能做什么呢？首先，他可能会意识到还有另一场选举。里根是唯一一个将总统职位移交给他所在政党的跛脚鸭。那些想要忠于自己政党的跛脚鸭，需要避免在继任者进行选举期间采取不受欢迎的行动。这意味着，奥巴马应该在2016年大选正式开始前，也就是现在，集中开展单边行动。
Second, he should think about doing and saying those needful things that only a president who is not again seeking office can say and do. He might find a way to, finally, close the Guantánamo Bay prison complex. Or just before the 2017 inauguration, he could commute the sentences of the 50,000 nonviolent drug offenders who have been sentenced to more than 10 years in federal prison. That would be memorable.
其次，他应该考虑做、说那些只有不会再次参加竞选的总统才能说和做的必要的事情。他可能最终会找出关闭关塔那摩监狱的方法。或者在2017年新总统举行就职典礼前，他可能会减轻对五万名非暴力毒品犯罪者的处罚，他们被判在联邦监狱服刑十余年。这些是会被后世记住的事。