Steve McQueen, director of “12 Years a Slave,” doesn’t storyboard his films, though all have a painterly aesthetic. Mr. McQueen started out as a visual artist. He also doesn’t shot-list, production-speak for cataloging each day’s scenes, preferring to set up and let the camera roam on location.
《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)的导演史蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)从不为电影制作情节串联图板，但他的所有作品都带有绘画艺术般的美感。麦奎因事业刚起步时是一名视觉艺术家。他不编排每天拍摄的那些幕戏的顺序，不使用分镜头列表，也不宣讲该如何拍摄，他更喜欢把场景布置好，然后让摄像机在片场漫无目的的移动。
For “Gravity,” Alfonso Cuarón’s space thriller, the location was a 10-foot-wide light box. He spent four and a half years meticulously planning each frame, essentially making the film twice as he waited for effects to be invented, yet still pruned it to a taut 90 minutes. Growing up in Mexico, Mr. Cuarón was a cinema nerd, but he began his career in technical jobs like assistant cameraman, eager to learn how movies are stitched together.
对于阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)的太空惊悚片《地心引力》(Gravity)来说，片场就是一个10英尺宽的“光盒”。在等待特效诞生的这段时间里，他花了四年半时间精心计划电影的每一帧画面，相当于把这部电影拍了两次。然而，他还是把电影剪辑到了简短的90分钟。卡隆成长于墨西哥，曾经是一个痴迷于大银幕的电影达人，但他却是从助理摄影师这样的技术性工作做起的，因为他渴望了解电影的制作过程。
David O. Russell came to filmmaking late, after stints as a teacher and a community organizer, and began as a writer, creating characters who are equally funny and miserable. His style evolved toward more personal films, and in his recent career renaissance — “American Hustle” is his third Oscar-nominated film in four years — he has made a habit of working with, and chronicling, a clan.
大卫·O·拉塞尔(David O. Russell)进入电影制作行业的时间较晚，此前，他曾短暂地做过教师和社区组织者。他也从事写作，笔下的角色滑稽可笑却命运悲惨。他的电影逐渐转向了更加个人化的风格，在最近这段事业东山再起的时间里——《美国骗局》(American Hustle)是他四年里的第三部奥斯卡提名作品——他已经习惯了与一个演员群体合作，并记录下他们的故事。
Those three films are front-runners in an unusually competitive Oscar race for best picture, with even the most-seasoned pundits, the kind who can spot the leader weeks out, changing their minds in the days before Sunday’s show, pleading confusion. (As the Carpetbagger, I’m one of them, having now covered five Academy Awards seasons.) The consensus appears to be that “12 Years a Slave” will top the night, though no one would be surprised if “Gravity” reigned; “American Hustle” would be an upset, but one with evident roots.
这次的奥斯卡奖争夺异常激烈，而上述三部影片是最佳影片的热门之选，即使是最有经验的行家，那些能在几个星期之前就能预测出赢家的人，在本周日典礼之前也在不断改变主意，并承认自己也一头雾水。（作为Carpetbagger的博客作者，我也是其中之一，虽然已经报道过五届奥斯卡）。目前似乎可以达成一致的是，《为奴十二年》会成为当晚的最大赢家，不过如果《地心引力》胜出，也不会有人感到惊讶；而《美国骗局》并非没有明显根基，它可能会逆袭胜出。
The three-picture rivalry highlights different factions of the Academy’s roughly 6,000 members, who don’t vote as a bloc but do stick closely in their tastes. In the Oscar race, as in politics, demographics matter.
这种三足鼎立的态势突显了美国电影艺术与科学学院约6000名成员所属团体之间的差别，这些团体的成员的投票决定虽然不尽相同，但都有着相近的品味。奥斯卡评选就像政治竞选，投票者的组成很重要。
The Academy members who belong to what’s known in Hollywood as the below-the-line professions — including editors, sound designers, cinematographers and effects artists — are said to be Team “Gravity.” That film’s undeniable technological achievements are its most shimmering asset: Watching Sandra Bullock spin around in her specially designed astronaut suit, most viewers have never felt closer to the frontiers of space (Neil deGrasse Tyson excepted). The story may be a metaphor for rebirth and letting go of the past, but the lingering and zooming camerawork and pristine shots of Earth have equal (or better) emotional punch.
在好莱坞被称为“台下”职业的人士据说是《地心引力》的拥趸，这包括编辑、音响师、电影摄影师和特效师。这部电影的最大亮点就是其难以否认的技术成就：当看到桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)在特制的太空服里的旋转时，大多数观众从未感到自己离太空这片新天地这么近（尼尔·德格拉斯·泰森[Neil deGrasse Tyson]除外）。这个故事可能寓意着重生和对过去的放手，但其静止不动、推进和拉远的拍摄技巧，以及包含地球的美丽画面拥有同样（甚至更大）的情感冲击力。
“Gravity” is sure to rack up below-the-line trophies — bet on cinematography and effects — and a statuette for Mr. Cuarón, who also edited the film, is in the cards. He undoubtedly has the respect of his peers.
《地心引力》肯定会得到“线下”类别的奖项——很可能是最佳摄影和最佳视觉效果奖——参与剪辑的卡隆也可能得到一个小金人。毫无疑问，他在同行中很有威望。
But that may not be enough to take best picture. Not when all four of the stars of “American Hustle” are nominees, a coup that Mr. Russell has now pulled off two years running (and something no one else had achieved in more than 30 years). The performances he draws from his now familiar roster of favorites — Christian Bale and Jennifer Lawrence, who have both already won Oscars under his watch; Bradley Cooper, suddenly revealing his dramatic heavyweight side; and Amy Adams, showcasing again her effortless, chameleon qualities — are rightfully praised.
但这可能不足以让《地心引力》获得最佳影片奖。尤其是《美国骗局》的四位明星演员都获得了提名，拉塞尔已经连续两年做到了这一点（30多年来，没有其他人能取得同样的成就）。他熟悉且钟爱的演员阵容包括克里斯蒂安·贝尔(Christian Bale)和詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)，他们都已经因为拉塞尔的电影赢得过奥斯卡奖；莱德利·库珀(Bradley Cooper)则突然展示出了自己拥有非凡戏剧表演才能的一面；艾米·亚当斯(Amy Adams)再次呈现了自己举重若轻、变幻莫测的表演特质。拉塞尔从他们那里激发出的表演能够得到赞誉是实至名归的。
Few other filmmakers operate with Mr. Russell’s madcap energy, writing to and around his cast. His version of the screenplay for “American Hustle” began with conversations with the stars about their own lives. On set, he is freewheeling — improvising dialogue and shouting directions from the sidelines — and adds impulsive flourishes, like the scene with Ms. Lawrence lip-syncing to “Live and Let Die.” He shot it without knowing where or how it would fit into the film; it wound up being a touchstone moment. Actors love him, and they also love to reward a lot of acting.
几乎再没有其他导演在工作时拥有拉塞尔那种疯狂不羁的能量，他用量身定做的方式为演员们写剧本。他编写的那个版本的《美国骗局》剧本是以与出演明星对话，让他们叙述自己的生活开始的。在片场，他天马行空——即兴为人物设计对白，在外围大声作指导——他还会一时兴起增加一些花样，比如拉伦斯用唇语说出“活着，让别人去死”的那一幕。在拍摄时，他根本不知道这一幕应该加在哪里，或是如何把它放进电影里；但最后，它却成了画龙点睛之笔。演员们非常喜欢他，他们也非常喜欢去奖赏那些包含了很多表演成分的片子。
There are about 1,100 actors in the Academy, by far its largest branch. Naturally, they don’t all have the same opinion. Some responded more to “The Wolf of Wall Street,” “Dallas Buyers Club” or “Nebraska,” all best picture nominees as well. Marking those or the other contenders — “Her,” “Captain Phillips,” “Philomena” — as their No. 1 ballot choice may not lead to a clear majority.
美国电影艺术与科学学院的成员包括大约1100名演员，人数远远多于其他群体。他们自然不会所有人都有同样的观点。有些人对《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)、《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)或《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)更有共鸣，这三部影片也获得了最佳影片的提名。如果他们把这些影片或是其他竞争者——比如《她》(Her)、《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)、《菲洛梅娜》(Philomena)——放在第一位，可能就不会有哪部影片具备明显优势。
In that case, in the Academy’s preferential voting system, the No. 2 pick moves up. How this will affect the outcome isn’t exactly known — the final tally is never released — but in a year when the competition is so close, it’s sure to play a part.
这样的话，根据美国电影艺术与科学学院实施的偏好投票制，他们放在第二位的影片可能会胜出。这将如何影响结果还不能确切得知——最后的投票结果从不公布——但当竞争如此激烈，这个因素肯定会起到一定作用。
“12 Years a Slave” has all the hallmarks of a traditional Academy-anointed film: It’s based on a true story, the 19th-century memoir of Solomon Northup; it features rich period detail and deeply felt turns by respected actors (many of them British, or otherwise theatrically trained) in difficult roles; and it reflects an unassailable morality. (Also, there’s Brad Pitt.)
《为奴十二年》拥有传统的奥斯卡获奖影片的所有特质：取材于真实的历史故事，即19世纪所罗门·诺萨普(Solomon Northup)的回忆录；丰富的历史细节，优秀的演员（其中的许多演员不是英国人，就是曾经受过专业表演训练）所诠释的、触动人心的命运转折；此外，这部电影反映出的是一种无懈可击的道德力量。（还有，电影里有布拉德·皮特[Brad Pitt]）
Campaigning on its behalf, the distributor, Fox Searchlight, sought to ground the movie in history, introducing Northup’s descendants in clips and at award ceremonies. In ads, the slogan “It’s Time” drew attention to both the story and the fact that the Academy has never honored a black filmmaker like Mr. McQueen with its top prizes.
在为这部电影拉票的过程中，发行商福克斯探照灯(Fox Searchlight)想让人们感到，这部电影扎根于历史，于是在一些视频片段和颁奖仪式中邀请了诺萨普的后代。在广告中，“是时候了”的口号引发了对这部影片关注，也让人们注意到以下事实：奥斯卡从未把最高奖项颁给过麦奎因这样的黑人导演。
“This is not a black movie, this is not a white movie, this is an American movie,” he said.
他说，“这不是一部黑人电影，这也不是一部白人电影，这是一部美国人的电影。”
If the Academy believes that, it may well be an Oscar-winning movie.
如果学院也这么认为，它就很有可能赢得奥斯卡奖。