LOS ANGELES— Alejandro G. Iñárritu’s “Birdman” and Richard Linklater’s “Boyhood” were showered with honors on Thursday as the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences confirmed what’s been whispered for months: Those are the films to beat at the 87th Oscar show on Feb. 22.
洛杉矶——星期四，亚利桑德罗·G·伊纳里多(Alejandro G. Iñárritu)的《鸟人》(Birdman)与理查德·林特莱克的《少年时代》(Boyhood)获得多项奥斯卡提名，美国电影艺术与科学学院仿佛证实了数月以来的议论：这两部电影将在2月22日举行的第87届奥斯卡颁奖典礼上满载而归。
But several films with as many or more nominations — including “The Grand Budapest Hotel” and “The Imitation Game” — showed perhaps enough strength to surpass them, after all.
但也有些电影获得了同样多，乃至更多的提名，或许有足够实力超过这两部影片，包括《布达佩斯大饭店》和《模仿游戏》。
Both “Birdman” and “Boyhood” took nominations for best director and best picture. But so did “The Grand Budapest Hotel,” by Wes Anderson, and “The Imitation Game,” by Morten Tyldum. In all, eight best picture nominees were selected, including Clint Eastwood’s “American Sniper,” Ava DuVernay’s “Selma,”James Marsh’s “The Theory of Everything,” Damien Chazelle’s“Whiplash.”
《鸟人》和《少年时代》都获得了最佳导演与最佳电影提名。韦斯·安德森(Wes Anderson)的《布达佩斯大饭店》(The Grand Budapest Hotel)和莫腾·泰杜姆(Morten Tyldum)的《模仿游戏》也是如此。八部获得最佳电影提名的影片还包括克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)的《美国狙击手》(American Sniper)、艾娃·德约列(Ava DuVernay)的《塞尔玛》(Selma)、詹姆斯·马什(James Marsh)的《万物理论》(The Theory of Everthing)以及达米安·沙泽勒(Damien Chazelle)的《爆裂鼓手》(Whiplash)。
“Selma” and “Whiplash” have ceased to be surprises, as both have popped up with awards and nominations throughout the season. But each comes from a relatively new director, making their best picture nominations notable.
《塞尔玛》和《爆裂鼓手》获得提名并不算意外，二者都在本季脱颖而出，获得多个奖项与提名。但两部影片的导演都是新人，因此它们获得最佳影片提名也格外引人关注。
“Birdman” — whose full title is “Birdman or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance” — and “The Grand Budapest Hotel” each garnered nine nominations. “The Imitation Game” had eight, and “Boyhood” had six, scoring heavily in the major categories.
《鸟人》（它的全名应该是《鸟人或无知的意外美德》）与《布达佩斯大饭店》都获得九项提名，《模仿游戏》获得八项提名，《少年时代》获得六项提名，但都集中在重要奖项。
“Boyhood” and “Birdman” were each bolstered by nominations for both supporting actor and actress: Ethan Hawke and Patricia Arquette in “Boyhood,” and Edward Norton and Emma Stone in “Birdman.”
《少年时代》与《鸟人》都获得了最佳男女配角奖，他们是《少年时代》中的伊桑·霍克(Ethan Hawke)与帕特丽夏·阿奎特(Patricia Arquette)，以及《鸟人》中的爱德华·诺顿(Edward Norton)和艾玛·斯通(Emma Stone)。
Among actors, Michael Keaton received his expected nomination for his bravura turn in “Birdman” as an aging screen superhero seeking salvation on the stage. Just as inevitably, Eddie Redmayne — a fellow winner at the Golden Globes on Sunday — was nominated for playing the physically damaged, cerebrally soaring Stephen Hawking in “The Theory of Everything.”
在最佳男主角奖项中，迈克尔·基顿(Michael Keaton)不负众望，因他在《鸟人》中的华丽表现获得提名，他在片中的角色是一个上了年纪的超级影星，在戏剧舞台上寻求拯救。同样不出所料的是，周日获得金球奖的艾迪·雷德梅恩(Eddie Redmayne)也因在《万物理论》中饰演身体残疾、心智高蹈的斯蒂芬·霍金(Stephen Hawking)而获得提名。
Benedict Cumberbatch from “The Imitation Game,” Steve Carell from “Foxcatcher,” and Bradley Cooper from “American Sniper” rounded out the best actor field.
主演《模仿游戏》的本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇(Benedict Cumberbatch)、主演《狐狸猎手》(Foxcatcher)中的史蒂夫·卡瑞尔(Steve Carell)，以及主演《美国狙击手》中的布拉德利·库珀(Bradley Cooper)也分获最佳男主角提名。
Among actresses, the year’s choices have been less obvious, as various performances grabbed attention — often for haggard portrayals of deeply troubled women — at pre-Oscar awards stops.The Academy’s nominations went to Marion Cotillard for “Two Days, One Night”; Felicity Jones for “The Theory of Everything”; Julianne Moore for “Still Alice”; Rosamund Pike for “Gone Girl”; and Reese Witherspoon for “Wild.”
在最佳女主角奖领域，今年的选择并不明显——特别是上届奥斯卡奖中有许多女星的表演令人瞩目，尤其是那些形容憔悴、深陷烦恼的女人。最后获得提名的包括主演了《两天一夜》(Two Days, One Night)的玛丽昂·歌迪亚(Marion Cotillard)、主演《万物理论》的费莉希蒂·琼斯(Felicity Jones)、主演《依然爱丽丝》(Still Alice)的茱莉安·摩尔(Julianne Moore)、主演《消失的爱人》(Gone Girl)的罗莎蒙德·派克(Rosamund Pike)和主演《涉足荒野》(Wild)的瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)。
The remaining supporting actors were Robert Duvall for “The Judge,” Mark Ruffalo, for “Foxcatcher” and J. K. Simmons for “Whiplash.” The other supporting actress nominees were Laura Dern for “Wild,” Keira Knightley for “The Imitation Game” and Meryl Streep, an Oscar perennial, for “Into the Woods.’’
其他获得最佳男配角奖提名的演员还包括出演《法官老爹》(The Judge)的罗伯特·杜瓦尔(Robert Duvall)、出演《狐狸猎手》的马克·鲁弗洛(Mark Ruffalo)以及出演《爆裂鼓手》的J·K·西蒙斯(J.K. Simmons)。其他获得最佳女配角奖提名的演员还包括出演《涉足荒野》的劳拉·邓恩(Laura Dern)、出演《模仿游戏》的凯拉·奈特莉(Keira Knightley)和出演了《魔法黑森林》(Into the Woods)的奥斯卡常青树梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)。
Ms. Dern recounted getting the predawn news from her press agent. “She said, ‘You don’t sound so enthusiastic.’ And I said, ‘No, no, it’s just that my son is asleep,’ ” Ms. Dern said from her car on Thursday morning. “It’s totally delicious.”
邓恩女士说自己是在黎明时分从经纪公司那里知道这个消息的。“她说，‘你听上去好像不怎么热情。’我说，‘不，不，只是因为我儿子还在睡觉，’”星期四早上，邓恩在自己的车子里接受采访时说。“这真是太好了。”
The documentary nominations brought some surprises, as “Life Itself,” about the film critic Roger Ebert, and “Keep On Keepin’ On,” about the trumpeter Clark Terry, were omitted. Nominations went to “Citizenfour”; “Finding Vivian Maier”; “Last Days in Vietnam”; “The Salt of the Earth”; and “Virunga.”
最佳纪录片提名中有一些意外，关于影评人罗杰·伊伯特(Roger Ebert)生平的纪录片《人生如戏》(Life Itself)和关于小号手克拉特·特里(Clark Terry)的纪录片《坚持到底》(Keep On Keepin’ On)双双落选。获得提名的影片包括《第四公民》(Citizenfour)、《寻找薇薇安·迈尔》(Finding Vivian Maier)、《在越南最后的日子》(Last Days in Vietnam)、《地球之盐》(The Salt of the Earth)和《维龙加》(Virunga)。
The big miss in the animated film category was “The LEGO Movie.”The academy nominated “Big Hero 6”; “The Boxtrolls”; “How to Train Your Dragon 2”; “Song of the Sea”; and “The Tale of Princess Kaguya.”
在长篇动画奖项，未获提名的重要影片是《乐高大电影》(The LEGO Movie)。学院把提名颁给了《超能陆战队》(Big Hero 6)、《盒子怪》(The Boxtrolls)、《驯龙高手2》(How to Train Your Dragon 2)、《海洋之歌》(Song of the Sea)和《辉夜姬物语》。
The reappearance of “The Grand Budapest Hotel,” a lighthearted caper set in a rambling Eastern European hotel that was released early in the year, has leavened an awards season that has otherwise been laced with weightier drama. “The Imitation Game,” from the Weinstein Company, an Oscar powerhouse, has also remained strong.
今年年初上映的《布达佩斯大饭店》是一个轻松的诈骗故事，发生在一家杂乱无章的东欧酒店里，它为这个充满沉重题材的颁奖季增添了活跃的因素。《模仿游戏》来自韦恩斯坦公司，它是奥斯卡奖的有力角逐者，势头强劲。
But it is the matchup between “Birdman” and “Boyhood” that commands the most attention. Like brandy and Benedictine, the two have been paired through the long season, as they picked up a string of awards and nominations. “Birdman” is tough-minded and bitter. “Boyhood” is warm, with subtle turns filmed over 12 years. They complement each other, and have begun to look almost like a double bill.
但《鸟人》与《少年时代》之间的角逐吸引了最多关注，两部影片都获得了一系列奖项与提名，它们就像白兰地与当酒一样，在这漫长的季节里被人们相提并论。《鸟人》坚强、实际而又辛酸。《少年时代》拍了12年的时间，有着温暖的基调和微妙的转折。二者堪称互为补充，简直可以双片连放了。
The nominations were announced in two waves, beginning at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time. The first list focused on less closely watched categories, like sound mixing, documentary shorts and visual effects.
提名从太平洋时间5：30开始分两部分宣布。第一批名单主要是那些较少受到关注的奖项，诸如最佳混音奖、最佳纪录片短片奖和最佳视觉效果奖。
In one telltale category among those, film editing nominations went to “American Sniper”; “Boyhood”; “The Grand Budapest Hotel”; “The Imitation Game”; and “Whiplash.” That was a bit of a snub for “Selma,” which made the best picture list, but had only one other nomination, for its song.
这其中有一个奖项格外能说明问题，最佳剪辑奖提名由《美国狙击手》、《少年时代》、《布达佩斯大饭店》、《模仿游戏》和《爆裂鼓手》分获。获得最佳影片提名的《塞尔玛》在这个奖项受到了怠慢，不过它获得了最佳原创歌曲提名。
On the flip side, “Foxcatcher,” overlooked in the best picture category, earned nominations for its director, Bennett Miller, as well as for makeup, screenplay and the performances of two actors, Mr. Carell and Mr. Ruffalo.
此外，《狐狸猎手》没有获得最佳影片提名，但导演贝尼特·米勒(Bennett Miller)获得了最佳导演提名，此外该片还获得最佳化妆和最佳剧本提名，卡瑞尔和鲁弗洛分获最佳男主角和最佳男配角提名。
Ms. Streep now has 19 acting nominations to her credit: an Academy record. No minorities made the acting lists, though David Oyelowo, who played the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in “Selma,” had been widely regarded as a best actor prospect.
斯特里普在演艺生涯中获得的奥斯卡提名已经达到19项，创造了纪录。在表演奖项中没有少数族裔演员入围，尽管在《塞尔玛》中饰演小马丁·路德·金博士的大卫·奥伊罗(David Oyelowo)曾被广泛认为有可能获得最佳男主演提名。
(Writing on Twitter of her film’s best picture nomination, Ms. DuVernay, the “Selma” director, pointedly called Mr. Oyelowo “our miracle” and seemed to brush aside weaker-than-expected Academy support in other categories. “March on!” she wrote.)
（《塞尔玛》的导演德约列获得了最佳导演提名，她在Twitter上别有深意地称奥伊罗是“我们的奇迹”，奥斯卡在其他奖项之中对《塞尔玛》的认可似乎不如预期，但她好像并不在乎。“前进吧！”她写道。）
The technical categories were kind to Christopher Nolan’s “Interstellar,” but a coveted cinematography nomination eluded the film — “Ida,” a Polish film that also earned a nomination for best foreign-language film, got an unexpected nod there. And with that, “Interstellar,” once anticipated as a possible front-runner, slipped onto the back bench.
克里斯托弗·诺兰(Christopher Nolan)的《星际穿越》(Interstellar)获得了多个技术奖项。但令人觊觎的最佳摄影奖却没有提名《星际穿越》，而是令人意外地给了波兰电影《修女艾达》(Ida)一个名额，《修女艾达》亦获得了最佳外语片提名。《星际穿越》一度被视为这个奖项中的领跑者，结果却落到了后面。
Among companies, Fox Searchlight, with “Birdman,” “The Grand Budapest Hotel” and “Wild,” received 20 nominations, the most in its history. Sony Pictures Classics also had a proud morning. The small indie film unit of Sony Pictures Entertainment had 18 nominations, its best showing ever.
在各大公司之中，福克斯探照灯公司凭借《鸟人》、《布达佩斯大饭店》和《涉足荒野》，共获得20项提名，创造了公司时尚的最好成绩。索尼经典影业也收获颇丰，它是索尼影视娱乐公司旗下一个较小的独立电影部门，此次共获得18项提名，也是它史上的最好成绩。
Long on art, short on watchability, the year’s films have struggled to find an audience. Among the best picture nominees, not one has yet been a breakout hit. At the domestic box office, in fact, all eight combined have taken in less than last year’s “Gravity,” a nominee that drew about $274 million in sales.
今年的电影大都注重艺术性，较少娱乐性，因此竭力试图吸引观众。获得最佳电影提名的影片没有一部是票房大片。事实上，在国内，这八部影片的票房加起来也没有超过去年的《地心引力》(Gravity)，这部影片亦获得了奥斯卡奖提名，同时获得了2.74亿美元的票房。
According to BoxOffice.com, the combined nominees for best picture last year took in $648.6 million by the morning of the nominations; this year’s crop has sold only $202.9 million worth of tickets.
根据BoxOffice.com网站统计，截止到提名公布当天上午，去年获得奥斯卡提名的影片总票房达到6.486亿美元；今年获提名的影片总票房只有2.029亿美元。
The soft performance raises a red flag for television ratings on Oscar night; the Golden Globes got by on Sunday with only a modest drop. They had possibly more star power in their hosts, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler, than the academy will with Neil Patrick Harris.
这种疲软的表现为今年奥斯卡颁奖礼的电视收视率拉响了警报；周日的金球奖颁奖礼收视率略有下降。而且金球奖的主持人是蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)和艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)，比今年奥斯卡奖的主持人尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯(Neil Patrick Harris)星光更盛。
“It’s been a long, slow, gradual release and only now is going wider,” said Mr. Miller, the director of “Foxcatcher,” which first eased into theaters on Nov. 14. “When you struggle to create something, and it gets noticed, you feel deep gratitude,” he said of the film’s five nominations.
“影片上映是个漫长、缓慢，渐进的过程，到现在才开始广泛传播，”《狐狸猎手》的导演米勒说，该片直到去年11月14日才在影院上映。“当你努力创作，终于被人们所注意时，你会觉得深深感激，”《狐狸猎手》获得五项提名。
Among the morning’s other disappointments were “Cake,” which did not produce an acting nomination for Jennifer Aniston’s perhaps too brave, too damaged performance. Also left out wasJessica Chastain, who had been in the running both for“Interstellar” and “A Most Violent Year,” which got nothing.
提名当天另一部失意的影片是《蛋糕》(Cake)，詹妮弗·安妮斯顿(Jennifer Aniston)在片中献上了或许是过于勇敢、过于自毁的演出，却没有获得表演奖提名。同样失意的还有杰西卡·查斯坦(Jessica Chastain)，她以《星际穿越》(Interstellar)和《至暴之年》(A Most Violent Year)中的角色参加角逐，均未能获得提名。
Paul Thomas Anderson’s “Inherent Vice,” after a rocky time with critics and audience alike, showed surprising life. It took nominations for its script and costume design.
保罗·托马斯·安德森(Paul Thomas Anderson)的《性本恶》(Inherent Vice)受到评论家和观众的恶评，却展现出了惊人的生命力。它获得了最佳剧本奖与最佳服装设计奖的提名。
“Gone Girl,” a rare pop movie in the Oscar lineup, had been nominated for four Golden Globes, but garnered only one Oscar nomination, for the sexy, scary performance by its leading lady, Ms. Pike. “Nightcrawler” had aspired to nominations for its lead actor, Jake Gyllenhaal, and even for best picture: It was recently nominated as a top film by the Producers Guild of America. But it earned only one nomination, for its screenplay.
《消失的爱人》是奥斯卡影片中少见的流行类影片，共获得四项金球奖提名，但只获得一项奥斯卡提名——派克女士性感而惊悚的表演使她跻身最佳女主角提名之列。《夜行者》(Nightcrawler)本希望其男主演杰克·吉伦哈尔(Jake Gyllenhaal)能获得提名，甚至希望获得最佳影片提名——最近它被美国制片人工会提名为最佳影片。但最后它只获得了最佳剧本奖提名。
Perhaps the biggest shockers, though — audience members in the academy’s Samuel Goldwyn Theater gasped at the omissions — were those snubs in the documentary category. Heavy campaigning behind both “Life Itself,” which was presumed to have a constituency for its movie world theme, and “Keep On Keepin’ On,” which was supported by the musician-producer Quincy Jones, were shut out.
不过，或许纪录片门类中的落选者们才是最令人惊讶的——出席于塞缪尔·格尔温剧场举办的提名仪式的观众们全都惊呆了。被广泛宣传的《人生如戏》和《坚持到底》双双落马。前者是关于电影题材的，因此人们本以为它会获得广泛支持，后者则有音乐家兼制作人昆西·琼斯(Quincy Jones)加盟。