LOS ANGELES — Oscar voters set up a three-way slugfest on Thursday, with the visual wizardry and box office might of “Gravity” going up against the historical heft of “12 Years a Slave” and the 1970s-era hairdos and cleavage of “American Hustle.”
洛杉矶——周四，奥斯卡评委会掀起了三方激战，带来视觉盛宴和超高票房的《地心引力》(Gravity)遭遇具有历史意义的《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)和展现20世纪70年代发型与暴露服饰的《美国骗局》(American Hustle)。
David O. Russell’s “American Hustle” and Alfonso Cuarón’s “Gravity” each received 10 nominations for the 86th annual Academy Awards, including for best picture and best director. Steve McQueen’s “12 Years a Slave,” with nine total nominations, was also honored with best picture and director nods.
大卫·O·罗素(David O. Russell)的《美国骗局》和阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)的《地心引力》各自收获了第86届年度学院奖(Academy Award)的10项提名，其中包括最佳影片和最佳导演奖。史蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)的《为奴十二年》也获得了包括最佳影片和最佳导演奖在内的九项提名。
Those three films had been expected to lead the way, but Hollywood still got its share of surprises. A strong year for cinema resulted in crowded categories and more perceived snubs than usual.
人们早就预计这三部影片将会领跑奥斯卡，但好莱坞(Hollywood)电影圈仍然不乏惊喜。今年电影业的强劲表现使得各个奖项的竞争都比往常激烈，显然冷遇也比往常多。
Some of the industry’s biggest stars were left on the sidelines. Voters ignored two favored actors, Robert Redford (“All is Lost”) and Tom Hanks (“Captain Phillips”). Emma Thompson was forgotten for “Saving Mr. Banks,” as was Oprah Winfrey for “Lee Daniels’ The Butler.” The heavily campaigned “Inside Llewyn Davis,” from the Coen brothers, failed to make the best picture cut, while Paul Greengrass was overlooked for his direction of “Captain Phillips.”
一些最大牌的电影巨星无缘奥斯卡。评委会忽略了两名广受喜爱的演员——《一切尽失》(All is lost)中的罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)和《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillip)中的汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hankss)。同样被遗忘的还有出演《大梦想家》(Saving Mr. Banks)的艾玛·汤普森(Emma Thompson)和出演《白宫管家》(Lee Daniels’ The Butler)的奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)。科恩兄弟(Coen brothers)执导的《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)声势浩大，但却没能入围最佳影片，保罗·格林格拉斯(Paul Greengrass)也没能凭借《菲利普斯船长》获得提名。
Mr. Greengrass was likely beaten out either by Martin Scorsese, whose “The Wolf of Wall Street” divided audiences by testing the extreme outer bounds of an R rating, or by Alexander Payne, who directed the black-and-white “Nebraska.”
格林格拉斯可能是被执导《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)的马丁·西科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)或带来黑白电影《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)的亚历山大·佩恩(Alexander Payne)击败出局的。《华尔街之狼》因游走在限制级影片边缘而赢得了观众。
In all, nine films are up for best picture — for the third year in a row — in a category that can have as many as 10 or as few as five nominees, depending on how voters from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences spread their support. Rounding out the category this time are “Captain Phillips,” “Dallas Buyers Club,” “Her,” “Nebraska,” “Philomena” and “The Wolf of Wall Street.”
总而言之，这是连续第三年有九部影片获得最佳影片提名，最佳影片最多可以有10个提名，最少有5个提名，这取决于来自美国电影艺术与科学学院(Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)的评委会成员如何投票。获得最佳影片提名的还有《菲利普斯船长》、《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)、《她》(Her)、《内布拉斯加》、《菲洛梅娜》(Philomena)和《华尔街之狼》。
Among actors, “American Hustle” was the strongest film, with nominees in all four major categories: Christian Bale (best actor), Amy Adams (best actress, her first such nomination after four supporting nods), Bradley Cooper (best supporting actor) and the white-hot Jennifer Lawrence (best supporting actress.) It was the second year in a row that a film by Mr. Russell had nominees in all four categories, a difficult feat that he achieved last year with “Silver Linings Playbook” (with Ms. Lawrence winning best actress).
演员方面，《美国骗局》最为抢眼，参演演员囊括了四个主要奖项的提名：最佳男主角——克里斯蒂安·贝尔(Christian Bale)、最佳女主角——艾米·亚当斯(Amy Adams)、最佳男配角——莱德利·库珀(Bradley Cooper)，以及最佳女配角——炙手可热的詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)。亚当斯曾四次获得女配角提名，这是她首次获得最佳女主角提名。这是罗素的影片连续第二年囊括四个主要奖项提名，去年，他凭借《乌云背后的幸福线》(Silver Linings Playbook)一片取得了这一难得佳绩（劳伦斯最终获得了最佳女主角奖）。
With a best actress nomination, Sandra Bullock was the only lauded “Gravity” star, but that space adventure is essentially a one-woman show.
获得最佳女主角提名的桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)是《地心引力》中唯一获得提名的演员，不过，这部有关太空冒险的电影基本上只是一个女人的独角戏。
“I don’t think it ever stops being an absolute thrill, but I do have an immediate leveler,” Ms. Bullock said by telephone. “I still have to get up and make lunch for a little person, and pray — please, dear God — that he eats something I put in his lunchbox today.”
“我觉得这永远都会令人激动，但我很快就能冷静下来，”布洛克接受电话采访时表示。“我仍然需要起床，为小孩准备午餐，然后祈祷——亲爱的上帝，请让他吃一些我今天放进他餐盒的东西吧。”
“Gravity” caught up with “American Hustle” in nominations by scoring heavily in less-prominent categories, including score, sound editing, sound mixing and visual effects. But those nominations could speak to the film’s strength as a best picture contender: Enormous numbers of Oscar voters work in Hollywood’s “below the line” crafts and pay close attention to the finer points of film assembly when picking their ultimate winner.
《地心引力》在提名数量方面与《美国骗局》不相上下，获得的却主要是最佳配乐、最佳音效剪辑、最佳音响效果、最佳视觉特效等不太引人注目的奖项提名。但这些提名足以说明该电影有实力角逐最佳影片：奥斯卡评审团的很多成员都是在好莱坞从事“线下”工作的人，他们在选择最终的获胜者时非常关注电影的细节。
Joining Ms. Bullock and Ms. Adams in the best actress field are Cate Blanchett, who won the equivalent Golden Globe on Sunday for her erudite alcoholic in “Blue Jasmine”; Judi Dench, for battling baby-selling nuns in “Philomena”; and Meryl Streep, who picked up her 18th Academy Award nomination for “August: Osage County.” (“Don’t you just hate her?” Ms. Bullock said of Ms. Streep, who has won three Oscars.)
与布洛克和亚当斯一同入围最佳女主角的有凭借《蓝色茉莉》(Blue Jasmine)中博学酗酒者的角色于周日赢得金球奖(Golden Globe)的凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)、在《菲洛梅娜》中与贩卖儿童的修女作斗争的朱迪·丹奇(Judi Dench)，以及凭借《八月：奥色治郡》(August: Osage County)获得第18次奥斯卡提名的梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)。（提到斯特里普的时候，布洛克说，“你们怎么不厌烦她啊？”斯特里普已经三次赢得奥斯卡奖。）
The best actor category was filled with brash performances. In addition to Mr. Bale, who gained weight and endured a hellish combover for his role, the nominees include Leonardo DiCaprio, for his unhinged financial schemer in “The Wolf of Wall Street,” and Matthew McConaughey, who lost nearly 50 pounds to play a 1980s AIDS patient in “Dallas Buyer’s Club.” Rounding out the category are Chiwetel Ejiofor (“12 Years a Slave”) and Bruce Dern (“Nebraska”), a typically showy actor in an unusually subtle role.
最佳男主角提名获得者都有非常抢眼的表现。除了为角色增肥、忍受秃顶的贝尔之外，入围者还包括在《华尔街之狼》中扮演精神错乱的金融阴谋家的莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)，以及在《达拉斯买家俱乐部》中扮演一名20世纪80年代艾滋病患者的马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)，麦康纳为此减了将近50磅。此外还有出演《为奴十二年》的切瓦特·埃加福特(Chiwetel Ejiofor)，以及《内布拉斯加》的男主角扮演者布鲁斯·邓恩(Bruce Dern)，通常高调的邓恩这次扮演的是一个异常含蓄的角色。
“The Wolf of Wall Street,” which arrived late in the season, had a surprisingly strong outcome on Thursday, considering it was shut out by voters in the Screen Actors Guild awards. With his nomination, Mr. Scorsese moved toward the top of an exclusive list: directors with the most nominations for best picture. This is Mr. Scorsese’s eighth (he has won once, for “The Departed”), tying him with Mervyn Leroy, and placing him behind only Steven Spielberg and John Ford, both with nine, and William Wyler, with 13.
考虑到《华尔街之狼》没有获得美国演员工会奖(Screen Actors Guild awards)评委的青睐，这部上映较晚的电影在周四的收获大得惊人。西科塞斯获得了提名，向着一份精英名单的榜首前进：最佳影片提名次数最多的导演。算上这次，西科塞斯获得了八次提名（并曾凭借《无间道》[The Departed]获奖），和默文·勒罗伊(Mervyn Leroy)持平，仅次于获得九次提名的史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)和约翰·福特(John Ford)，以及获得13次提名的威廉·惠勒(William Wyler)。
A couple of surprises came in the feature documentary category, where Sarah Polley’s “Stories We Tell,” a personal yarn about her own dysfunctional family, and Gabriela Cowperthwaite’s “Blackfish,” about allegations of abuse of animals and trainers at the SeaWorld parks, were left out. Both films appeared on list after list of favorites.
纪录片单元也冷门不断。莎拉·波利(Sarah Polley)的《我们讲述的故事》(Stories We Tell)和加布里埃拉·考珀思韦特 (Gabriela Cowperthwaite)的《黑鲸》(Blackfish)爆冷落选。《我们讲述的故事》是导演在讲述自己不健全的家庭，而《黑鲸》则直指各个海洋公园对动物和驯兽师的虐待。在之前的诸多最受欢迎影片名单上，这两部作品均榜上有名。
Instead, the streaming service Netflix scored its first Oscar nomination, for “The Square,” about unrest in Egypt. (Netflix, which acquired the film in November, had taken the somewhat extravagant step of putting up “for your consideration” billboards in Los Angeles.) Other best documentary nominees are “The Act of Killing,” “Cutie and the Boxer,” “Dirty Wars” and “20 Feet From Stardom.”
相反，流媒体服务供应商Netflix凭借以埃及动荡为主题的《广场》(The Square)一片首次获得了奥斯卡提名。（Netflix于11月购得该片版权，并不惜重金在洛杉矶竖起了“供您参考”的广告牌。）最佳纪录片的其他提名影片包括《杀戮演绎》(The Act of Killing)、《小可爱与拳击手》(Cutie and the Boxer)、《肮脏的战争》(Dirty Wars)和《离巨星二十英尺》(20 Feet From Stardom)。
The foreign films that won nominations on Thursday have made almost no mark on Americans, taking in a total of $1.8 million. They are “The Broken Circle Breakdown,” “The Great Beauty,” “The Hunt,” The Missing Picture” and “Omar.”
于周四获得提名的外语影片几乎没给美国人留下什么印象，总共只获得了180万美元（约合1100万元人民币）的票房。它们分别是《破碎之家》(The Broken Circle Breakdown)、《绝美之城》(The Great Beauty)、《狩猎》(The Hunt)、《消失的画面》(The Missing Picture)和《奥玛》(Omar)。
Disney had a bad morning. The studio’s “Saving Mr. Banks,” a hopeful for best picture and for Ms. Thompson, left with a lone nomination for its score. Pixar, a Disney division, was shut out of the animation category with its “Monsters University.” (Another animated sequel, Universal’s “Despicable Me 2,” most likely took its place.)
对迪士尼来说，这个上午不太美好。该公司的《大梦想家》(Saving Mr. Banks)本有望角逐最佳影片，艾玛·汤普森(Emma Thompson)也本希望凭借该片角逐最佳女主角，但该片最终只获得了最佳配乐一项提名。迪士尼旗下皮克斯(Pixar)的《怪兽大学》(Monsters University)也无缘动画片提名。（另一部动画片续集，环球影业(Universal)《卑鄙的我2》[Despicable Me 2]极有可能占据了它的位置。）
Others were also smarting. Billy Ray, nominated in the adapted screenplay category for “Captain Phillips,” said his joy at being recognized was overwhelmed by his shock at the omission of both Mr. Greengrass and Mr. Hanks.
伤心的还有其他一些人。凭借《菲利普斯船长》获最佳改编剧本提名的比利·雷(Billy Ray)说，自己获得认可的喜悦被格林格拉斯和汉克斯落选带来的震撼压倒了。
“This is a very bittersweet moment for me,” Mr. Ray said. “I’m really upset that Paul Greengrass and Tom Hanks didn’t get nominated. It was a beautifully directed movie, and a spectacular performance.”
“对我来说，这是一个喜忧参半的时刻，”雷说，“保罗·格林格拉斯和汤姆·汉克斯未获提名，我真的很难过。这是一部导演得很完美的影片，堪称壮观。”
Among companies, Sony and Warner Bros. tied with 21 nominations each, while rivals had roughly half as many or less. Six of the nine best picture nominees came from major studios, but most of those relied on outside financing, underscoring a shift toward a Hollywood economy where studios release films paid for by others.
从电影公司的角度来看，索尼(Sony)和华纳兄弟(Warner Bros)各自斩获21项提名，而其他竞争对手获得的提名大约只有它们的一半，或者不到一半。获得最佳影片提名的9部影片中，6部出自大型电影公司，其中大部分却都有赖于外部融资，突显了好莱坞经济的发展方向，即电影公司发行影片，为影片出钱的则是其他人。
To date, only one of the best picture nominees, “Gravity,” with over $675 million in worldwide box-office receipts, has been a megahit. The rest are mostly still looking for a bump from their Oscar nominations, and some of the most lauded films — including “American Hustle” and “12 Years a Slave” — have yet to make a serious dent in foreign markets. (The Oscars are televised in more than 200 countries.)
迄今为止，获最佳影片提名的影片中，只有《地心引力》大获成功。该片在全球获得了超过6.75亿美元的票房收入。其他影片大多还在希望凭借奥斯卡提名取得突破。部分最受赞扬的影片——包括《美国骗局》和《为奴十二年》——尚未真正引起外国市场的注意。（奥斯卡奖颁奖典礼将在200多个国家转播。）
Speaking by telephone, Mr. McQueen, who is British, said he was encouraged by early overseas sales for his picture, which tells the wholly American story of a 19th-century man sold into slavery. “People were saying the movie is too brutal,” he said, adding that strong turnout in places like Britain is proving otherwise.
身为英国人的麦奎因在电话上说，自己受到了电影早期海外销售情况的鼓励。该片讲述的是一个完完全全的美国故事，19世纪的一名男子卖身为奴。“有人说这部电影太残忍了，”他说。但他补充说，在英国等地的高票房证明，事实并非如此。
Of the nominations, he said, “It’s been an amazing, amazing journey.”
对于获得奥斯卡提名，他说，“这是一段非常非常神奇的旅程。”
It may get more amazing: Of all the nominees, “12 Years a Slave” has perhaps the clearest shot at the record books. If it were to win the best picture Oscar, it would become the first film by a black director to capture the Academy’s highest honor.
这段旅程可能会变得更神奇：在所有提名影片中，《为奴十二年》兴许是最有可能载入史册的一部。如果最终获得奥斯卡最佳影片奖，该片将成为首部由黑人导演执导并获得学院奖最高荣誉的影片。
This year’s ceremony, to be held on March 2 and broadcast on ABC, will amount to a do-over for the producers Neil Meron and Craig Zadan. Last year, the pair drew harsh criticism for putting together what many people saw as a tacky and, at times, offensive show, hosted by Seth MacFarlane, that was notable for nonstop musical numbers.
今年的颁奖典礼将于3月2日举行，由ABC转播。尼尔·梅伦(Neil Meron)和克雷格·扎丹(Craig Zadan)将继续担纲颁奖典礼的制作人。去年，两人因为奉上一台被许多人认为俗气甚或令人不快的演出而遭到了严厉的批评。那场颁奖典礼由赛思·麦克法兰(Seth MacFarlane)主持，显著的特色是配有不间断的电影音乐。
A 3 percent climb in total viewers, to 40.3 million — ratings for younger adults increased 20 percent — got Mr. Meron and Mr. Zadan invited back, but it promises to be a very different ceremony this time around. Ellen DeGeneres will be the host and has said she wants a classy telecast.
那场典礼的总收视率攀升了3%，达到4030万人——年轻人的收视率增加了20%——梅伦和扎丹因此再次获邀。不过，这一次肯定会是一场非常不同的颁奖典礼。将担任颁奖典礼主持人的艾伦·德杰尼勒斯(Ellen DeGeneres)表示，她希望这是一台有品位的电视节目。