PARIS — It was arguably the most important speech of François Hollande’s presidency. His job approval remains at nearly the lowest level of any president in French history. His economic policies have failed to make major inroads in addressing chronic unemployment and persistent deficits. His Socialist Party is restive.
巴黎——这大概是弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)总统任内最重要的演讲。外界对他的工作认同程度，在历任法国总统中几乎是最低的。他的经济政策未能给久拖不愈的失业和持续存在的赤字问题带来任何重大改善。他所在的社会党(Socialist Party)现在人心惶惶。
Then there was that other matter weighing on him, with 600 journalists assembled to see him at the Élysée Palace and the audience around the world watching with an intensity rarely accorded to a French policy agenda: the revelation last week of his affair with an actress and the drama of France’s brokenhearted first lady checking herself into a hospital, “in shock,” according to her staff.
而后，还有一件事让他压力重重，有600名记者聚集在爱丽舍宫见他，全球的观众也热切关注此事，法国的政策议程，都难能受到这般关注。上周，奥朗德和一名女演员有染的新闻被爆光，据第一夫人的手下透露，心碎的第一夫人“在震惊中”自己住进了医院，引起轩然大波。
So after a long prelude in which he delivered a sober and detailed analysis of France’s challenges and his proposals for addressing them, the questions began, and the first was on the affair and where it left his companion and official consort, Valérie Trierweiler. She had been scheduled to accompany him on his visit to Washington next month but has remained hospitalized.
奥朗德在演讲中对法国面临的挑战做出了清醒详实的分析，提出了应对挑战的提议。这段冗长的序曲结束后，提问开始了，第一个问题就问到了偷情事件，还问奥朗德这么做，他的伴侣暨正式配偶瓦莱丽·特里耶韦莱(Valérie Trierweiler)将被置于何地。瓦莱丽原计划于下月陪伴奥朗德出访华盛顿，不过现在，她依然在住院。
“Everyone in his private life can go through difficult periods — these are difficult moments,” Mr. Hollande responded, evidently seeking to acknowledge reality. “But I have one principle: Private matters should be dealt with privately.”
“每个人的私生活都会经历艰难的时期——如今就是艰难的时刻。”奥朗德回答说，似乎力图承认事实。“不过，我有一个原则：私事应该私下处理。”
However, just seconds later it seemed obvious that much in his personal life had yet to be resolved. When the journalist who asked the first question, Alain Barluet, the head of the Presidential Press Association, asked whether Ms. Trierweiler was still the first lady, Mr. Hollande was noncommittal, suggesting that either he had not decided or that he was not about to address the issue publicly while she was still in the hospital.
然而，仅仅几秒之后，人们就明显地看到，他私生活里的许多问题还没有得到解决。当提出第一个问题的记者阿兰·巴尔吕埃(Alain Barluet)追问瓦莱丽是否还是第一夫人时，奥朗德没有表态，这说明，他不是还没作出决定，就是不打算在瓦莱丽尚在医院的情况下，公开回应这个问题。巴尔吕埃是总统报业协会(Presidential Press Association)的会长。
He responded that he would make clear who the first lady is before he leaving for Washington in a few weeks.
奥朗德回应说，几周之内他将出访华盛顿，在那之前，他会对谁是第一夫人的问题作出明确表态。
The news conference was heavily covered by foreign news organizations, some of them clearly judging its value to be in something other than Mr. Hollande’s view on government regulation. But his responses will most likely satisfy the French, said Pierre Haski, the top editor at Rue89, an online publication, who was among those attending.
外国新闻机构大幅报道了此次新闻发布会，其中的一些媒体明确断定，发布会的价值不在于奥朗德对政府法规的看法，而是其他的。不过，网络杂志Rue89的资深编辑皮埃尔·阿斯基(Pierre Haski)说，法国人极有可能会对他的回答满意，阿斯基当时在场。
“There was a kind of sincerity in his first statement,” said Mr. Haski, adding: “Obviously anyone can be in his shoes and would be so embarrassed to have the dirty laundry of a couple in public. I don’t think this will be analyzed as anything against him, to be honest.”
阿斯基说，“他的最初陈述透露出一种真诚。显然，换做是其他任何人，都会羞于把这种夫妻间的丑事公之于众。坦白说，我不认为，此事会被人解读成反对他的理由。”
Polling has suggested that most French sympathize with Mr. Hollande and do not believe he should be evaluated based on the women in his life.
民意调查显示，大多数法国人都同情奥朗德，他们不认为，应该以他生活中的女人们为依据来评估他。
The liaisons of French politicians and their demands for privacy are viewed as more acceptable than they are in the United States, which has a more puritanical approach. And as important, the French president still enjoys some of the respect that used to be due a monarch, so his private life is not a matter of discussion unless he chooses it to be.
相比美国，法国人对政客风流韵事和他们对隐私的要求比较能接受，而美国人对此类事则更有一种清教徒般严苛的态度。同样重要的是，法国总统依然享有过去君主才有的某些尊敬，所以，除非是他选择讨论自己的私生活，否则，那就是一件私事。
French commentators drew a sharp line between what Mr. Hollande said about his private life and what he said about economics, seeing both as important. On economics, some welcomed what they called a change in tone on fiscal matters, describing him as more decisive, leaderlike and clear.
在奥朗德所述的私生活和经济政策之间，法国评论员划下了一道深深的分界线，他们认为，二者同样重要。说到经济政策，一些人声称，财政事务的基调发生了转变，他们对此表示欢迎，他们说，奥朗德更有决断力，更像一名领导、立场更分明了。
His economic policy moves gratified business and upset labor, but suggested that he was ready to make some of the structural changes, including lowering taxes and cutting the budget, that he had avoided since his election in 2011.
他在经济政策上的举措让商界满意，令劳动者不安，不过，这些举措表明，他准备好实施一些结构性的调整，包括降低赋税，削减预算，自2011年赢得选举以来，他一直在避免执行类似的调整。
Although the center-right opposition criticized him for trying to divert the public’s attention from his private life by outlining a dizzying number of policies, supporters saw it as part of an effort to rebrand himself politically and show that he is not antibusiness.
尽管中右翼的反对派批评他试图通过概述一大堆令人眼花缭乱的政策来转移公众对其私生活的注意力，然而，他的支持者却把这些政策视为他重塑自身政治形象、表明自己不会和商业界为敌的一种举措。
Mr. Hollande proposed a raft of new policies under the rubric of a “responsibility pact” among business, labor and the government.
奥朗德以商业界、劳动者和政府之间的“责任协议”为主题，提出了大量的新政策。
He promised a roughly $41 billion cut in payroll taxes for business and independent workers and said he would reduce the French budget by about $70 billion by 2017, which would reduce the deficit by 4 percent.
他承诺要为企业和独立工人削减大约410亿美元（约合2480亿元人民币）的薪资税，并表示到2017年，他要把法国的预算削减700亿美元左右，此举将把法国的赤字降低4%。
François Heisbourg, a political and policy analyst at the Foundation for Strategic Research, noted that whether talking about the economy or his personal life, Mr. Hollande had shown self-control throughout the news conference, refusing to be drawn into emotional displays.
巴黎战略研究基金会(Foundation for Strategic Research)政治和政策分析师弗朗索瓦·埃斯堡(François Heisbourg)指出，不管是讨论自己的经济政策还是私生活，奥朗德在新闻发布上自始至终都显示出了自制力，没有在压力之下做出情绪化的表现。
Yet, Mr. Heisbourg said, there was a certain vagueness on both counts.
不过，埃斯堡说，在这两个方面，奥朗德的表述均有一定的模糊性。
While Mr. Hollande was clear on the tax cut, there were few details on how he planned to pay for it or how he proposed cutting the budget.
尽管他明确提出了削减赋税，然而，对于计划如何弥补税收损失，或者打算如何削减赤字，他都没有提供太多细节。
Similarly, the only clear thing about his personal life was that the drama was “not over,” Mr. Heisbourg said.
埃斯堡说，同样地，在私生活方面，唯一明白无误的一件事就是，大戏还未“结束”。
Mr. Hollande made clear that “this is going to go on for another few weeks,” said Mr. Heisbourg, referring to the president’s assertion that he will not answer the question of who is the first lady until close to the date of his departure for the United States in the second week of February.
埃斯堡说，奥朗德明确表示，“这件事还会持续几周。”这里指的是总统坚称，他将在2月里的第二周出访美国，他会在出访日期临近之前，回答谁是第一夫人的问题。
“So it’s messier than we realized,” Mr. Heisbourg said.
埃斯堡说，“所以，局面比我们认识到的还要混乱。”