IN the chilly predawn here on Thursday, eager publicists will use their fingers and toes to count whose film got the most Academy Awards nominations. There once was a time when the morning’s winner had all but locked up the best picture Oscar.
星期四洛杉矶寒冷的黎明前夜，急切的宣传人员们将在这里手脚并用地计算谁家的影片获得最多奥斯卡提名。在过去，这个黎明时分的大赢家几乎可以说已经锁定了奥斯卡的最佳影片奖。
Not anymore. Departing from a decades-old pattern, voters in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences have developed the habit of honoring one film with the largest number of Oscar nominations and quite another with their best picture statuette. Six times in the last decade, victory on nominations morning has meant heartache at the awards ceremony. Last year, for example, Steven Spielberg’s “Lincoln” led with 12 nominations, but only its star, Daniel Day-Lewis, and a production design team won Oscars.
但现在已经不是这样了。美国电影艺术与科学学院(Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)的投票者们已经习惯让一部电影获得最多提名，之后又把最佳电影的小金人授予另一部电影。过去十年里有六次，获得最多提名的电影在颁奖典礼上伤心而归。比如去年，史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的《林肯》(Lincoln)以12项提名领先，但最后只有主演丹尼尔·戴-刘易斯(Daniel Day-Lewis)和制作设计团队最终获奖。
The movie industry can’t quite settle on an explanation for the shift, agreeing only that it creates a conflict for wily Oscar campaigners, who now covet the nominations jackpot — though often a setup for disappointment — as a prize almost more valuable than the Oscar itself.
对于这个变化，电影业界没有给出明确解释，只是一致认为这给那些精明的奥斯卡奖竞争公司们造成了矛盾，他们现在更加渴求获得最多提名——尽管这通常会带来随后的失望——提名几乎比奥斯卡奖本身更有价值了。
For much of Hollywood history, the most nominated film and the winner had almost always been the same, according to “Inside Oscar,” a compendium of Academy Awards lore written by Damien Bona and Mason Wiley. But only four times in the last 10 years has the Academy’s most heavily nominated film gone on to win the top honor, and two of those years saw ties for the distinction of most nominated picture, said Libby Wertin, a researcher for the Academy’s Margaret Herrick Library.
达米安·波纳(Damien Bona)与马森·威利(Mason Wiley)所著的《走进奥斯卡》(Inside Oscar)一书是关于奥斯卡奖专业知识的简单提要，书中说，在好莱坞历史上的大部分时间里，获得最多提名的影片和最终的最佳影片往往是同一部。但是，奥斯卡学院玛格丽特·赫里克图书馆(Margaret Herrick Library)的学者利比·沃汀(Libby Wertin)指出，最近十年来，获得最多提名的影片只有四次获得最佳影片，而且其中两年里，有两部影片并列获得最多提名。
In addition to “Lincoln,” over the past decade, “Hugo,” “Dreamgirls,” “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button,” “Brokeback Mountain” and “The Aviator” have secured the most nominations but failed to win best picture. The movies that stayed true to the historical trend — either winning or tying for the most nominations and winning best picture — are “The Hurt Locker,” “No Country for Old Men,” “The King’s Speech” and “The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King.” Exactly why the regular pattern broke — with “The Aviator,” which topped the nominations in 2005, but lost to “Million Dollar Baby” — is not clear. Tom Sherak, a film consultant and former president of the Academy, speculates that it has to do with fragmenting taste within the group. “I think we’ve changed,” he said of Oscar voters who no longer coalesce around a grand consensus, but shift with the push and pull among niche audiences that advocate a particular film or performance.
过去十年中，除了《林肯》，还有《雨果》(Hugo)、《梦女孩》(Dreamgirls)、《本杰明·巴顿奇事》(The Curious Case )、《断背山》(Brokeback Mountain)和《飞行者》(The Aviator)也获得最多提名，但没能赢得最佳影片。而继承历史传统，既赢得（或并列赢得）最多提名，又成为最佳影片的电影则有《拆弹部队》(The Hurt Locker)、《老无所依》(No Country for Old Men)、《国王的演讲》(The King’s Speech)和《指环王：王者归来》(The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King)。规则是从《飞行者》开始被打破的，2005年，它获得最多提名，却败给《百万美元宝贝》(Million Dollar Baby)，原因为何至今不详。据电影专家与学院前任主席汤姆·谢拉克(Tom Sherak)推测，这是因为评委的品位走向分裂而造成的。“我觉得我们在改变，”他这样评价奥斯卡奖的评委们，他们不再能够达成广泛一致，而是随着观众小圈子里对某部影片或某个演员的褒贬而不断改变阵营。
Another Hollywood executive, who requested anonymity to avoid potential backlash from peers or clients, said that film studios, over the years, quietly shifted their strategic posture by treating the top spot among nominees as a far more valuable prize than the best picture Oscar. They did so, he said, in imitation of Harvey Weinstein, whose Miramax Films learned to time the wide release of a contender, with its attendant advertising, to the frenzied weeks before and after the nominations are announced. Audiences flock to see the top nominee, and by Oscar night, the big prize is anticlimactic, the thinking goes.
另一位为避免可能引发同行或者客户强烈反应而要求匿名的好莱坞高层人士指出，近年来，制片公司悄悄改变了策略，给予提名更多关注，将“获得最多提名”视为比“最佳影片”更有价值的大奖。他说，这种做法是在模仿哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)，他的米拉麦克斯电影公司(Miramax Films)学会了调整参选影片的漫长放映期（包括附属广告在内），把它安排在提名宣布前后几周这段狂热的时间里。观众都会成群结队去观看获得提名最多的影片，到颁奖之夜评出最佳影片时，高潮趋势已经在走下坡了。
John Goldwyn, a former vice chairman of Paramount, which won best picture Oscars for “Titanic,” “Forrest Gump” and “Braveheart” during his tenure, noted that the shift in best picture voting coincided with the rise of nonstop, Web-driven Oscar campaigns. The half-year between September and late February or early March, when the Oscars are won, has become an endurance contest in which the perceived front-runner can lose steam as voters tire of being reminded how much they should love the movie.
约翰·戈德韦恩(John Goldwyn)是派拉蒙(Paramount)的前任副总裁，他在任期间，公司的《泰坦尼克》(Titanic)、《阿甘正传》(Forrest Gump)和《勇敢的心》(Braveheart)曾获得奥斯卡最佳影片，他指出，最佳影片投票的变化与制片公司无休无止、以网络为主体的奥斯卡宣传攻势是一致的。从9月到奥斯卡奖揭晓的2月底或3月初，整整半年时间是一场漫长的竞争，起先被看好的领跑者可能会失利，或许只是因为投票者们厌倦了一再被提醒他们应该有多么喜欢这部影片。
“Now you’ve got bloggers and analysts and this proliferation of awards shows,” Mr. Goldwyn said. “Voters get worn out.”
“现在有博客写手和分析师，还有大量激增的评奖节目，”戈德韦恩说，“投票者们会有倦怠感。”
Historically, failing to win the most nominations almost guaranteed losing the best picture race, and disappointment on nomination day would send a film’s backers into a tailspin. In 1981, “Ordinary People,” directed by Robert Redford, was the perceived best picture front-runner. But it got just six nominations, and “Raging Bull” and “The Elephant Man” both topped it with eight.
历史上，没有获得最多提名几乎等于已经失去最佳影片荣誉，提名公布日带来的失望情绪会令影片的支持者们心烦意乱。1981年，罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)导演的《普通人》(Ordinary People)被认为最有可能获得最佳影片，但只获得六项提名，同年《愤怒的公牛》(Raging Bull)与《象人》(The Elephant Man)并列第一，分获八项提名。
The result was so confusing that Barry Diller, then chairman of Paramount, which released it, said he “almost ran into a wall” on hearing a radio report of the tally. “I literally sat at the curb for five minutes,” Mr. Diller later told a reporter for The New York Times.
《普通人》由派拉蒙公司发行，这个结果令公司当时的总裁巴里·迪勒(Barry Diller)大为困惑，他说自己从广播中听到这个消息时，“差点一头撞在墙上”。“我是真的在马路边坐了五分钟，”迪勒后来对《纽约时报》的记者说。
On Oscar night, Mr. Redford recalled in an interview on Tuesday, he was equally flummoxed when “Ordinary People” won best picture after receiving light nominations. “I was not prepared for it,” he said. “I didn’t know if I should go to the parking lot or the stage.”
雷福德在星期二接受采访时说，到了奥斯卡颁奖之夜，《普通人》虽然没有获得最多提名，但仍然获得了最佳影片，当时这个消息同样令他感到慌乱。“我根本没有准备好，”他说，“我不知道自己该走上舞台，还是该去停车场。”
Mr. Redford pondered whether the new trend might reflect an independent streak among voters when they are finally alone with their ballots.
雷德福觉得目前这股新潮流可能反映了评选者们在投票时的独立趋势。
“Hopefully, it’s always people voting for what they love and not for the politically correct choice or most heavily campaigned film,” he said.
“但愿这个奖一直都是由人们选出自己心爱的电影，而不是选出政治正确的影片，或是被宣传最多的影片。”
Several other film professionals cited the lengthy season and campaign dynamics as factors. One executive who watched his film slip from top nominee to just another runner-up in the last decade said the “anomie that the season induces” probably contributed to the tumble. Another noted that the presumptive front-runners are exploited by the competition that plays to Hollywood’s love for the underdog.
其他一些电影业内人士认为冗长的宣传季与宣传攻势也是造成这种变化的因素。一位高管回忆，过去十年里，他曾经目睹过自己公司的影片从获得最多提名的影片到最后落败，他说，或许是“宣传季的混乱状态”导致了如今这种变化。另一位高管则认为起先被看好领跑的电影在竞争中受到了利用，因为好莱坞一直都偏爱居于下风的选手。
There are statistical quirks. Three movies produced by Warren Beatty have won the most nominations but lost best picture: “Bonnie and Clyde,” in 1968; “Reds,” in 1982; and “Bugsy,” in 1992.
此外还有统计学上的巧合。沃伦·比蒂(Warren Beatty)制作的三部电影都获得最多提名，但失去了最佳电影荣誉，它们分别是1968年的《邦妮与克莱德》(Bonnie and Clyde)、1982年的《烽火赤焰万里情》(Reds)和1992年的《豪情四海》(Bugsy)。
The split sometimes heightens on-camera drama at the awards ceremony. Last year, for instance, the television audience craned for tense reaction shots of Mr. Spielberg, as his “Lincoln” was bypassed by “Argo,” which had far fewer nominations (and none for Ben Affleck as director), but snatched the prize.
最多提名和最佳影片的分裂有时加剧了颁奖典礼上镜头捕捉到的戏剧性场面。比如去年，电视观众们渴望看到镜头中出现斯皮尔伯格的剧烈反应——《逃离德黑兰》(Argo)获得的提名远不如《林肯》，也没有为导演本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)赢得最佳导演提名，但却后来居上，获得最佳影片荣誉。
But the drama has largely moved to the Big Morning — nominations day.
但戏剧性场面大部分被挪到提名公布日这个重大的早晨来了。
In 1955, when the Academy first televised its nominations announcement, it had to pump up the proceedings by scattering hopeful stars among nightclubs all over Los Angeles, to await word of their honors at Ciro’s, Romanoff’s or the Cocoanut Grove. (“On the Waterfront” had the most nominations and went on to win the best picture.)
1955年，奥斯卡首次电视直播公布提名典礼，为了提振整个颁奖过程的气氛，节目组只得安排有望获奖的影星们到“塞洛”(Ciro’s)、“罗曼诺夫”(Romanoff)或“可可林”(Cocoanut Grove)之类洛杉矶夜店去等待颁奖消息。那年《码头风云》(On the Waterfront)获得最多提名，之后又摘取最佳影片桂冠。
“The mere announcement of the nominees would make dull watching,” The Boston Globe explained at the time.
“只宣布提名得主，看上去会很沉闷的，”《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)当时解释说。
Now an army of bleary-eyed publicists and accompanying reporters will hang on every word of the pre-dawn proceedings on Thursday.
如今，有一大群累到眼神呆滞的宣传人员和随行记者们会凝神倾听周四黎明前夜颁奖仪式上的每个字。
Because top spot among nominees — no longer a guarantee of victory on awards night — is becoming the bigger win.
只因为如今获得最多提名的影片才是最大的赢家——虽然它未必能在颁奖礼之夜凯旋。