The former chairman of Olympus, the manufacturer embroiled in one of Japan’s biggest-ever accounting frauds, was found guilty Wednesday by a Tokyo court of abetting the $1.7 billion cover-up.
制造商奥林巴斯(Olympus)前社长卷入日本最大一起假账案，东京一家法院周三认定他犯有怂恿隐瞒了价值17亿美元（约合104.2亿元人民币）亏损的罪行。
Tsuyoshi Kikukawa’s suspended sentence means he is likely to skip jail, however.
然而，菊川刚(Tsuyoshi Kikukawa)缓期执行的判刑意味着他可能会躲过牢狱之劫。
The Tokyo District Court also ordered Olympus to pay 700 million yen ($7 million) in fines for falsifying its financial reports, which the medical equipment and camera maker said was to mask hefty investment losses. For the latest fiscal year, which ended in March, Olympus recorded a net profit of 8.02 billion yen.
东京地方法院(Tokyo District Court)还判处奥林巴斯7亿日元(约合4300万人民币)的罚款，因其伪造了金融报告，据称这家医疗设备和照相机生产商为了掩盖巨额投资损失，做了假账。在截止于3月份的上一个财政年的报告中，奥林巴斯称其净收入为80.2亿日元。
The sentencing brings to a tentative close a tense scandal that pitted Olympus’s British president-turned-whistle-blower against his Japanese colleagues, who eventually admitted to running a decades-long scheme to hide losses.
这一判决暂时结束了奥林巴斯的紧张丑闻，丑闻起源于该公司的英国社长内部举报了自己的日本同事，后者最终承认几十年来一直在设法隐瞒亏损。
Michael Woodford, Olympus’s first-ever foreign chief executive, was abruptly fired from the Tokyo-based company in October 2011 after he presented the company’s board with evidence of accounting fraud and urged its directors come clean.
迈克尔·伍德福德(Michael Woodford)是奥林巴斯公司历史上的首位外籍社长，他在2011年10月向该公司董事会提交了公司做假账的证据并要求董事坦白，之后，他突然被这家总部位于东京的公司解雇了。
Mr. Kikukawa then took over as president, and initially told the press that Mr. Woodford’s Western management style was not a good match for the storied manufacturer. But a campaign by Mr. Woodford to air his side of the story to the media forced the company to conduct an independent review, which implicated Mr. Kikukawa and two other executives in an elaborate scheme involving offshore money, inflated acquisition payouts and a network of obscure brokers.
菊川刚接任社长后，他最初对媒体称，伍德福德的西式管理方式不适合这家有名的制造商。但是伍德福德努力向媒体阐述他这一方的说法，迫使该公司启动独立调查，调查发现菊川刚和其他两名高管策划了一起密谋，涉及到离岸货币、夸大收购支出，以及神秘的经纪人关系网等问题。
The scandal cast a pall over confidence in corporate governance at Japan’s biggest multinational companies, as investors asked whether Olympus had been a bad apple or whether more Japanese corporations were hiding bombshells in their financial books.
这一丑闻给日本最大的跨国公司的企业监管能力的信心蒙上了一层阴影。投资者质疑，究竟奥林巴斯是一只害群之马，还是更多的日本企业在账本中藏着炸弹。
Its outcome has also been seen as a test of how vigorously white-collar crime in Japan would be investigated and punished by authorities, which have been accused by critics of lacking teeth, especially against large, well-connected corporations. Mr. Kikukawa was handed a suspended three-year sentence, as was Hideo Yamada, a former auditing officer. Hisashi Mori, a former executive vice president also implicated in the scandal, received a lesser suspended sentence. All executives are expected to avoid actual jail time.
该案的结果也被视为执法的试金石：对日本的商业欺诈罪行当局会怎样严格调查和惩罚？批评者一直指责政府在这个问题上执法乏力，特别是针对那些有强大关系网的大企业。菊川刚和奥林巴斯前监事山田秀雄(Hideo Yamada)被判三年有期徒刑，缓期执行。卷入该案的奥林巴斯前执行副社长森久志(Hisashi Mori)被判了较轻的缓刑。估计这些高管实际上不会入狱。
Tokyo prosecutors had asked for a five-year jail term for Mr. Kikukawa, and a 1 billion yen fine for Olympus, according to Kyodo News.
据日本共同社(Kyodo News)报道，东京检方曾要求对菊川刚判刑五年，还要求对奥林巴斯公司罚款10亿日元。
But Judge Hiroaki Saito said that the former executives had simply taken over a scheme started in the 1990s by their predecessors. He also pointed out that there was no evidence Mr. Kikukawa and his colleagues pocketed any money.
然而，法官齐藤弘明（Hiroaki Saito，音译）称，这些高管只是接手了其前任在20世纪90年代就开始做的假账。他还指出，没有证据能表明菊川刚及其同事私吞了任何资金。
They “inherited a negative legacy and weren’t involved in the decision-making process to hide losses,” Mr. Saito was quoted in local media reports as saying in court on Wednesday. “They didn’t benefit personally from hiding losses,” he said.
当地媒体在报道中援引齐藤弘明周三在法庭上的话称，他们“继承了一笔糟糕的遗产，但未曾参与掩盖损失的决策过程，他们个人没有从隐瞒损失中获利”。
The former executives thought to have made the original decision to hide the losses, Masatoshi Kishimoto and Toshiro Shimoyama, were not charged because the statute of limitations had expired.
被认为最初做决定隐瞒损失的前任高管岸本正寿(Masatoshi Kishimoto)和下山敏郎(Toshiro Shimoyama)因诉讼时效过期而未受到指控。
A bid by Mr. Woodford to win back his top job at Olympus, meanwhile, was unsuccessful, though he won a multimillion-dollar settlement for unfair dismissal last year.
与此同时，伍德福德希望赢回其在奥林巴斯最高职位的努力未获成功，但他因去年被不公正地解雇而得到了数百万美元的赔偿金。
Olympus still faces lawsuits from investors, including State Street Bank and Trust and the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation, which are together seeking 19.1 billion yen in damages over the losses they sustained when Olympus shares tanked in the wake of the scandal.
奥林巴斯依然面临投资者的指控，其中包括美国道富银行(State Street Bank and Trust)和新加坡政府投资公司(Government of Singapore Investment Corporation)，这些投资者联合向奥林巴斯索赔191亿日元，以补偿他们因丑闻曝光引发股票大跌所遭受的损失。
The company restated five years of earnings to account for the fraud, wiping $1.3 billion from its balance sheet and putting its finances on shaky footing. The company’s shares collapsed, losing four-fifths of their value in the month after the scandal came to light in mid-October 2011.
作为对假账的交代，奥林巴斯重新报告了五年的收入，这在公司的资产负债表上抹去了13亿美元，导致公司财政基础不稳固。2011年10月中旬丑闻曝光之后，奥林巴斯公司的股票暴跌，股值在一个月内损失了五分之四。
Olympus has since taken the scandal in stride, trimming staff and striking a capital alliance with Sony, which was looking to expand into the lucrative medical equipment market. Those moves have helped Olympus rebound from heavy losses to a net profit for the latest fiscal year.
此后奥林巴斯从容处理丑闻，进行了裁员，与索尼(Sony)达成了资本联盟，索尼希望向利润丰厚的医疗设备市场扩展。这些措施让奥林巴斯得以逆转巨额损失，在上个财政年中实现了净收入。
The company’s share price has also recovered pre-scandal levels, almost doubling this year thanks in part to the pro-growth policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
公司的股票也已反弹回到了丑闻曝光之前的水平，部分得益于首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的促增长政策，股价在今年几乎翻了一番。
Olympus’s swift revival is likely to raise questions over the way companies are punished in Japan.
奥林巴斯公司的迅速恢复可能会引发人们对处罚日本公司方式的质疑。