Amid generally positive reviews of his jabs at Hollywood and #OscarsSoWhite, the host of Sunday’s Oscar ceremony, Chris Rock, is being taken to task for some of his material involving Asian-Americans.
克里斯·洛克(Chris Rock)在周日主持奥斯卡颁奖礼时，对好莱坞和“奥斯卡太白了”(#OscarsSoWhite)大加抨击，这让他收获了不少好评。不过，他也因为有关亚裔美国人的言论面临指责。
Introducing the accountants from PricewaterhouseCoopers, which tabulates the vote results, Mr. Rock instead brought onstage two boys and a girl of Asian heritage, whom he named Ming Zhu, Bao Ling and David Moskowitz. As they clutched briefcases, they visually illustrated the stereotype that Asians are diligent workers who excel at math.
在原本应介绍来自普华永道负责计票的会计的环节，克里斯·洛克却将三名亚裔孩童带上舞台，他们分别叫做朱明（Min Zhu，音）、凌宝（Bao Ling，音）和大卫·莫斯科维茨(David Moskowitz)。手提公文包的形象直观地展现了对亚裔的刻板成见：精于数学的勤奋员工。
“If anybody’s upset about that joke, just tweet about it on your phone that was also made by these kids,” Mr. Rock added, a punch line interpreted as a reference to child labor in Asia.
洛克还说：“如果有人不喜欢这个笑话，大可以用你的手机发条推特，不过你的手机也是这些孩子们做的。”这句话被解读为暗指亚洲的童工问题。
But that seeming awareness of how fine the line was between satire and slur, only added insult to injury, Lowen Liu wrote on the Slate site. “Even if the second beat tries to turn things around, it still allows the teller to make an Asian joke and then excuse himself from the telling. He pulls the rug out from under the audience only to hide underneath it.” (Sacha Baron Cohen, in character as Ali G, later also made a swipe — involving Minions and “little yellow people” — that many found offensive.)
但这种看似有意在讽刺和诋毁之间打擦边球的话语，实际上不仅会伤害人，还带有侮辱性，罗文·刘(Lowen Liu)在Slate上写道。“尽管第二个笑话试图扭转局面，但讲述者仍然将亚洲人当作笑料，并试图为自己开脱。他打了观众一个措手不及，但最终目的是保护自己。”（后来，Ali G的扮演者萨沙·拜伦·科恩[Sacha Baron Cohen]关于“小黄人”的言论也引发了风波，很多人觉得受到了冒犯。）
Constance Wu, the “Fresh Off the Boat” actress, tweeted her disappointment: “To parade little kids on stage w/no speaking lines merely to be the butt of a racist joke is reductive & gross,” she wrote.
美剧《初来乍到》("Fresh Off the Boat")的女主角吴恬敏(Constance Wu)在推特上表达了她的失望：“让小孩子列队似地站在台上，也不给他们说话的机会，只是为了讲一个种族主义笑话，这是一种退化，也很恶劣。”
So did the actor Jeffrey Wright, who tweeted that the “joke needed recalibrating,” among other more stringent comments.
在其他更为严苛的评论中，演员杰弗里·怀特(Jeffrey Wright)也写道：“这个玩笑需要重新改正。”
In a new study, the University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism found that at least half of the movies, television and streaming series released over the last two years had no speaking or named Asian-American characters; when they are represented, it is rarely in leading roles.
南加州大学安娜堡新闻与传播学院(he University of Southern California Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism)新近的一项研究发现，最近两年发行的所有电影、电视剧、网络剧中，至少有一半没有出现代表亚裔美国人的角色，即使角色中涉及亚裔美国人，也基本不是主角。
Even well-known Asian-American actors like Ken Jeong are still asked to do stereotypical accents, as he and others detailed in a recent New York Times story. “It’s getting a little bit better, but it’s just not great,” Mr. Jeong said of onscreen representation. “We have a ways to go.”
即使是郑肯(Ken Jeong)这样著名的亚裔演员，也依然被要求用典型的亚洲口音表演，在《纽约时报》最近的一篇报道中，他和其他演员详细谈了这一点。“情况已经有所好转，但远没有那么彻底，”郑肯在讨论荧幕形象时说。“我们还有很长的路要走。”
Asian and Asian-American performers, like the South Korean actor Lee Byung-hun and the TV star Mindy Kaling, were on hand as Oscar presenters or prominent guests on Sunday. And the academy president, Cheryl Boone Isaacs, called on her colleagues to “take action” because “our audiences are global and rich in diversity, and every facet of our industry should be as well. ”
亚洲演员和亚裔美国演员们作为颁奖者和嘉宾出席了周日的颁奖礼，如韩国演员李炳宪(Lee Byung-hun)和电视明星明迪·卡灵(Mindy Kaling)。美国电影学院主席谢莉尔‧布恩‧伊萨克斯(Cheryl Boone Isaacs)，呼吁她的同事应该“采取行动”，因为“我们产业的每个方面，都应该像我们的观众构成一样具有全球性和多样性。”
But many critics said Mr. Rock’s jokes seemed like a missed opportunity to highlight the fact that inclusion goes beyond black and white. (There were no jokes aimed at Latinos, but there was also no indication by the awards show that they were proportionately missing from the big screen, though the statistics say they are.)
但很多批评认为洛克的玩笑似乎错失了一个机会，去强调超越黑白的种族包容性。（没有一个笑话提到拉丁裔，但从奖项分布上看，他们并没有在荧幕上被遗忘，尽管这和统计数据显示的不一致。）
The actor Daniel Dae Kim tweeted that the first reference to any ethnicity other than black took 30 minutes, when “someone mentions ‘pho.’ I thought #diversity was more than that.”
演员金大贤(Daniel Dae Kim)发推特说，在足足谈论了30分钟黑人之后，才有人谈到其他种族，还是在“提起‘pho’（越南河粉，用以指代越南人，编注）的时候。我想种族多样性应该不仅是这些。”
As the writer Mina Kimes noted on Twitter, the joke “ would’ve stung less if there were more Asians on stage tonight.”
正如作家米娜·凯姆斯(Mina Kimes)在推特上所说，这些玩笑“也许不会显得那么刺耳，如果今晚的舞台上有更多亚洲人。”
In response to the ceremony, the writer Jaya Sundaresh created her own social media movement, urging followers to use #onlyonepercent “to reflect the fact that Asian Americans have rec’d only 1% of Oscar noms in its history.”
为了回应这场颁奖礼，作家贾亚·桑达瑞什(Jaya Sundaresh)发起了一场社交媒体运动，号召关注自己的粉丝使用“只有百分之一”(#onlyonepercent)的标签，反映历史上只有百分之一的奥斯卡提名给了亚裔演员这个事实。
An antidote to the one-liners came from the Pakistani journalist and filmmaker Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy, who picked up her second Oscar for documentary short, this time for “A Girl in the River: The Price of Forgiveness,” a film about an 18-year-old girl who survived an attempted “honor killing,” only to see her attackers set free.
莎敏·欧贝·池诺(Sharmeen Obaid Chinoy)对这些调侃作出了最好的反击。作为巴基斯坦记者和电影制作人，她因为记录短片《河中的女孩：宽恕的代价》，刚收获了自己的第二座小金人。这部纪录片讲述的是一名18岁的少女从一场有预谋的“名誉杀人”（指女性被一个或以上家族、部族或社群男性成员以维护家族名声、清理门户等理由杀害，编注）中幸存，最后却只能眼睁睁看着这些袭击者逍遥法外的故事。
“The Pakistani prime minister said he would change the law on honor killings after watching” her film, Ms. Obaid Chinoy said in her acceptance speech. “That’s the power of film.”
“巴基斯坦总理观看完这部影片后，表示会对‘名誉杀人’的有关法律条例进行修改，”莎敏女士在她的获奖感言中说道，“这就是电影的力量。”