When Gwyneth Paltrow was 22 years old, she got a role that would take her from actress to star: The film producer Harvey Weinstein hired her for the lead in the Jane Austen adaptation “Emma.” Before shooting began, he summoned her to his suite at the Peninsula Beverly Hills hotel for a work meeting that began uneventfully.
22岁时，格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Palthrow)得到了一个会让她从演员跻身为明星的角色：电影制片人哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)请她在改编自简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)同名小说的影片《爱玛》(Emma)中出演女主角。在开拍前，韦恩斯坦把叫到自己在比佛利山庄半岛酒店(Peninsula Beverly Hills)的套房开工作会议。一开始，平静无事。
It ended with Weinstein placing his hands on her and suggesting they head to the bedroom for massages, she said.
她说，会议开到最后却是韦恩斯坦对她动手动脚，并建议两人去卧室按摩。
“I was a kid, I was signed up, I was petrified,” she said in an interview, publicly disclosing that she was sexually harassed by the man who ignited her career and later helped her win an Academy Award.
“我还是个小孩，已经签约，当时吓傻了，”她在采访中公开披露自己曾遭到这个点亮她的事业、后来还帮她赢得学院奖(Academy Award)的男人的性骚扰。
She refused his advances, she said, and confided in Brad Pitt, her boyfriend at the time. Pitt confronted Weinstein, and soon after, the producer threatened her not to tell anyone else about his come-on. “I thought he was going to fire me,” she said.
她说自己拒绝了他的勾引，并向当时的男友布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)说了此事。皮特去找过韦恩斯坦，不久这名制片人威胁她不许跟任何人说起这件事。“我以为他会开除我，”她说。
Rosanna Arquette, a star of “Pulp Fiction,” has a similar account of Weinstein’s behavior, as does Judith Godrèche, a leading French actress. So does Angelina Jolie, who said that during the release of “Playing by Heart” in the late 1990s, he made unwanted advances on her in a hotel room, which she rejected.
《低俗小说》(Pulp Fiction)中的女星罗姗娜·阿奎特(Rosanna Arquette)和法国著名女演员朱迪斯·哥德雷科(Judith Godrèche)对韦恩斯坦都有类似描述。安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)也一样。她说，在90年代末发行《随心所欲》(Playing by Heart)期间，韦恩斯坦在一间酒店客房里对她非礼，遭到了她的拒绝。
“I had a bad experience with Harvey Weinstein in my youth, and as a result, chose never to work with him again and warn others when they did,” Jolie said in an email. “This behavior towards women in any field, any country is unacceptable.”
“我年轻时和哈维·韦恩斯坦共事的经历非常糟糕，因此我选择永远不再和他合作，而且在其他人选择和他合作时发出警告，”朱莉在一封电子邮件中写道。“在任何领域、任何国家，对女性的这种行为都是不可接受的。”
A New York Times investigation last week chronicled a hidden history of sexual harassment allegations against Weinstein and settlements he paid, often involving former employees, over three decades up to 2015. By Sunday evening, his entertainment company fired him.
上周，《纽约时报》的一项调查记述了一段隐秘的历史，是关于在截至2015年的30年里，针对韦恩斯坦的、往往涉及前员工的性骚扰指控和他支付的和解金。周日傍晚，他所在的娱乐公司将其开除。
Several days ago, additional actresses began sharing with The Times on-the-record stories of casting-couch abuses.Their accounts hint at the sweep of Weinstein’s alleged harassment, targeting women on the way to stardom, those who had barely acted and others in between.
几天前，有更多女演员开始和时报分享可以公开发表的潜规则故事。她们的描述显示出韦恩斯坦遭到指控的骚扰范围之广，从即将成名的、几乎没演过戏的到介于两者之间的女性都有。
The encounters they recalled followed a similar narrative: First, they said, Weinstein lured them to a private place to discuss films, scripts or even Oscar campaigns. Then, the women contend, he variously tried to initiate massages, touched them inappropriately, took off his clothes or offered them explicit work-for-sex deals.
根据她们的回忆，套路大致类似：她们说，首先，韦恩斯坦把她们骗到一个私下的场所讨论电影、剧本甚至奥斯卡宣传活动。然后，她们称，他会用各种方式尝试提议按摩、不适当的触碰、脱掉自己的衣服或是向她们直接提出用上床换取工作机会。
In a statement Tuesday, his spokeswoman, Sallie Hofmeister, said: “Any allegations of non-consensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein. Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances. He will not be available for further comments, as he is taking the time to focus on his family, on getting counseling and rebuilding his life.”
在周二的一份声明中，韦恩斯坦的发言人萨莉·霍夫迈斯特(Sallie Hofmeister)说，“韦恩斯坦先生坚决否认一切非两厢情愿的性行为的指控。韦恩斯坦先生也进一步证实自己从来没有因为求爱被拒而对任何女性采取报复行为。他不会发表进一步的评论，因为他要花时间把精力放在家庭、寻求咨询和重建生活上。”
Even in an industry in which sexual harassment has long persisted, Weinstein stands out, according to the actresses and current and former employees of the film companies he ran, Miramax and The Weinstein Co. Assistants often booked the meetings, arranged the hotel rooms and sometimes even delivered the talent, then disappeared, the actresses and employees recounted. They described how some of Weinstein’s executives and assistants then found them agents and jobs or hushed actresses who were upset.
据相关女演员，以及现在和过去在他经营的电影公司米拉麦克斯(Miramax)和韦恩斯坦公司(The Weinstein Co.)工作的员工称，即便是在一个性骚扰长期存在的行业，韦恩斯坦的行为也是令人触目惊心的。他们提到，一般是他的助理预定会议场所、安排酒店房间，有时甚至还会护送艺人，然后就不见了踪影。他们还提到韦恩斯坦的一些高管和助理之后如何为他们找到经纪人和工作，或是让感到不安的女演员收声。
His alleged behavior became something of a Hollywood open secret: When comedian Seth MacFarlane announced Oscar nominees in 2013, he joked, “Congratulations, you five ladies no longer have to pretend to be attracted to Harvey Weinstein.” The audience laughed. According to a 2015 memo by a former Weinstein Co. executive that The Times previously disclosed, the misconduct continued.
韦恩斯坦被控的行为几乎成了好莱坞公开的秘密：2013年宣布奥斯卡提名演员时，喜剧演员赛斯·麦克法兰(Seth MacFarlane)开玩笑说，“恭喜，你们五位女士不用再假装对哈维·韦恩斯坦有好感了。”观众哄堂大笑。据时报之前披露的韦恩斯坦公司一名前高管在2015年写的一份备忘录显示，这种不端行为当时仍在继续。
More established actresses were fearful of speaking out because they had work; less established ones were scared because they did not. “This is Harvey Weinstein,” Katherine Kendall, who appeared in the film “Swingers” and television roles, remembers telling herself after an encounter in which she said Weinstein undressed and chased her around a living room. Telling others meant “I’ll never work again and no one is going to care or believe me,” she reasoned at the time, she said in a recent interview.
更有名的女演员害怕发声是因为她们有工作，而不那么有名的女演员害怕则是因为她们没有工作。“这就是哈维·韦恩斯坦，”演过电影《全职浪子》(Swingers)和一些电视角色的凯瑟琳·肯达尔(Katherine Kendall)回忆自己在与韦恩斯坦的见面结束后这么告诉自己。她说，见面期间，韦恩斯坦没有穿衣服，在起居室里追得她满屋子跑。最近接受采访时，她说自己当时的想法是，告诉其他人意味着“我再也不会有工作，没人会在乎、相信我了”。
Paltrow, 45, is now an entrepreneur, no longer dependent on securing her next acting role. But she emphasized how much more vulnerable she felt at 22, when Weinstein had just signed her up for a star-making part. On a trip to Los Angeles, she received a schedule from her agents for the hotel meeting with Weinstein.
45岁的帕特洛现在是一名企业家，不再依赖于获得下一个表演角色。但她强调自己22岁时感觉要脆弱得多。那时，韦恩斯坦刚刚签下她，让她演一个会让她一举成名的角色。在去洛杉矶期间，她收到了经纪人发来的和韦恩斯坦去酒店开会的日程安排。
There was no reason to suspect anything untoward, because “it’s on the fax, it’s from CAA,” she said, referring to Creative Artists Agency, which represented her.
没有理由怀疑会出现任何麻烦，因为“都写在传真上，而且是CAA发来的”，她说道。CAA指的是代表她的创新艺人经纪公司(Creative Artists Agency)。
When Weinstein tried to massage her and invited her into the bedroom, she immediately left, she said, and remembers feeling stunned as she drove away. “I thought you were my Uncle Harvey,” she recalled thinking, explaining she had seen him as a mentor.
她说，当韦恩斯坦试图给她按摩并邀请她去卧室时，她马上离开了，并且记得自己开车离开时震惊不已。“我本以为你是我的哈维叔叔，”她记得自己当时这么想，并解释她视之为自己的导师。
Pitt confirmed the account to The Times through a representative.
皮特通过自己的代表向时报证实了相关说法。
Soon after, Weinstein called Paltrow and berated her for discussing the episode, she recalled. (She said she also told a few friends, family members and her agent.) “He screamed at me for a long time,” she said, once again fearing she could lose the role in “Emma.” “It was brutal.” But she stood her ground, she said, and insisted that he put the relationship back on professional footing.
帕特洛回忆说，不久后，韦恩斯坦给她打电话，指责她跟人说那件事（她说她还和几个朋友、家人和自己的经纪人说过）。“他朝我大喊大叫了很长时间，”她说，让她再次担心自己可能会失去《爱玛》中的角色。“很粗暴。”但她说，自己立场坚定，并坚持要求他让两人之间的关系回到职业层面。
Even as Paltrow became known as the “first lady of Miramax” and won an Oscar for “Shakespeare in Love” in 1999, very few people knew about Weinstein’s advances. “I was expected to keep the secret,” she said.
即便帕特洛成了“米拉麦克斯一姐”并于1999年凭借《莎翁情史》(Shakespeare in Love)赢得奥斯卡，知道韦恩斯坦曾对她耍流氓的人也非常少。“有人希望我保密，”她说。
Now Paltrow and others said they wanted to support women who had already come forward and help those in similar situations feel less alone.
现在，帕特洛和其他人说，她们希望支持那些已经站出来的女性，并帮助那些处境类似的人不至于那么孤独。
“We’re at a point in time when women need to send a clear message that this is over,” Paltrow said. “This way of treating women ends now.”
“我们处在一个女性需要发出清晰的讯息、表明这种行为结束了的时刻，”帕特洛说。“这么对待女性的方式现在结束了。”