PORTLAND, Ore. — THE Olympic movement is descending into a slow-motion crisis. Fewer and fewer cities are game for the Games.
俄勒冈州波特兰——奥林匹克运动正在滑向一场慢性危机。竞争奥运会举办权的城市越来越少。
Bidder enthusiasm for the 2022 Winter Olympics has fizzled, with voters in Krakow, Munich, Stockholm and Switzerland overwhelmingly rejecting the Games. Unrest in Ukraine forced Lviv to abandon its bid, leaving just Oslo, where public support is thin, together with Beijing and Almaty, Kazakhstan.
申办2022年冬奥会的热情已然冷却。克拉科、慕尼黑、斯德哥尔摩和瑞士的选民以压倒性多数反对参选，乌克兰危机又迫使利沃夫退出了申办，只留下了公众支持度不高的奥斯陆，以及北京和哈萨克斯坦的阿拉木图。
Prospects for the Summer Games are hardly rosier. In the four American cities shortlisted for the 2024 Olympics — Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington — interest is tepid. More than 30 others, including New York and Philadelphia, passed on the opportunity.
夏季奥运会的前景也好不到哪儿去。申办2024年奥运会的四座美国候选城市——波士顿、洛杉矶、旧金山和华盛顿——均不冷不热。包括纽约和费城在内的其他30多座城市干脆直接放弃了机会。
A serious rethink is overdue, and the timing is right. Last year, the I.O.C. elected a new president, Thomas Bach of Germany. For too long, host cities have worked in service of the Olympics. Mr. Bach can ensure that the Olympics start to work in service of host cities.
早就应当进行严肃的反思了，而现在的时机恰到好处。去年，国际奥林匹克委员会(IOC)选出了新主席：德国人托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)。多年来一直是主办城市在为奥运会服务，这种情况已经持续太久了。巴赫应该确保，奥运会要开始为主办城市服务。
Controlling the ever vaulting cost of hosting the Games is the place to start. In the 1990s, I.O.C. officials fretted about the threat of “gigantism”: the transformation of the Olympics into an unwieldy spectacle with an exorbitant price tag. Today, “gigantism” is the new normal.
起点就是控制举办奥运日益膨胀的花销。上世纪90年代，IOC官方曾经担忧“巨人症”的风险：奥运演变成臃肿不堪的庞然大物，价签高得离谱。现如今，“巨人症”却成了新常态。
Lowballing cost estimates to help secure a bid has almost become an Olympic sport in itself. London’s officials claimed that the 2012 Games would cost $3.8 billion, but spending topped $18 billion. Priced at $12 billion, the Sochi Olympics spiraled to $51 billion, more than all the previous Winter Games combined. The Etch A Sketch economics have to stop.
蓄意压低估算成本以确保申办成功的做法，几乎本身已成为一项奥林匹克运动。伦敦官方当初宣称，2012年奥运会的开支预计将为38亿美元（约合234亿元人民币），但实际数字却超过了180亿美元。索契冬奥会宣布的估算为120亿美元，实际却飙升至510亿美元，一举超越了过去所有冬奥会的总开销。“神奇画板”(Etch A Sketch)似的经济学可以休矣。
The Games are plagued by inept economic impact studies enabling fiscal fantasies of kick-started investment and growth that never materialize. These in turn allow ambitious politicians to push prestige projects ripe for corruption.
困扰奥运会的，还有蹩脚的经济影响研究。这些研究助长了奥运将强劲助推投资与增长的财政幻想，却从未真正实现，只是让野心勃勃的政客得以推行腐败丛生的恢弘项目。
The Games cost too much, and host populations derive insufficient benefit because Olympic development is often disconnected from city and regional planning. The I.O.C. should create an independent body comprising respected sports economists, urban planners and political scholars who can objectively assess whether bids’ construction plans fulfill long-view development strategies.
奥运会开支惊人，举办地的民众却未能获得足够的回报，因为奥运开发项目往往与城市和地区规划脱节。IOC应当创立一个独立机构，汇集像样的体育经济学家、城市规划师和政治学者，从而能够客观地评估申办城市的建筑方案能否实现长远的开发战略。
The Olympic Charter already allows for outside experts to assist with evaluating bids. This panel — let’s call it the Independent Bid Review Board — would meticulously analyze host cities’ filings and make recommendations to the I.O.C.’s key decision-making body, the Evaluation Commission.
《奥林匹克宪章》(Olympic Charter)中的规定允许外部专家协助评估申办事宜。这一机构——姑且叫做“独立申办评估委员会”(Independent Bid Review Board)——将事无巨细地分析主办城市的报告，并向IOC的关键决策机构评估委员会(Evaluation Commission)提交建议。
I.O.C. members are notoriously capricious, ignoring technical reports and voting for the bid with the shiniest promises. The I.O.C. should publish the records of voting members, so that there’s transparency about who is siding with the expert evidence and who is not.
IOC的委员们出了名地随心所欲，忽略技术报告，只管把票投给许下最美诺言的申办地。IOC应当公布委员的投票记录，这样，谁站在了专家证据的一边，谁又置若罔闻，就能一目了然。
Ballooning Olympic costs can cripple host cities. In the case of Athens, the debt incurred for the 2004 Games has even been blamed for stoking Greece’s near default. Venues are in ruins, decrepit monuments to misspending.
急速膨胀的奥运成本可能会压垮举办城市。比如雅典，甚至有人认为，希腊之所以几近违约，要部分归咎于2004年奥运会欠下的债务。场馆成为废墟，破败的纪念建筑被荒弃。
In the wake of the Games, taxes that might have paid for infrastructure projects to benefit the whole community must go instead to service debt. Meanwhile, the I.O.C. jets off to the next venue. An independent panel could reverse this trend by ensuring that spending goes to real needs like public transportation, and especially, sustainable systems like subways, light-rail and bus networks.
奥运会过后，那些本可以用来资助惠及全社会的基础设施项目的税款，必须用于偿债。与此同时，IOC却跳上飞机奔向下个举办地。一个独立的委员会可以避免这种趋势，它将保证开支流向公共交通等真实需求，尤其是地铁、轻轨和公交网络这类可持续的系统。
Every two years, Olympic boosters channel their inner Al Gore, claiming the mantle of “the greenest Games ever.” Sadly, the reality has not matched the P.R. London’s organizers created a sustainability commission to monitor environmental activities, but it was a toothless body. When officials brought on board “sustainability partners” like BP, it turned out that the only selection criterion was having deep pockets.
每两年，狂热支持奥运的那帮人就会释放内心深处的阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)，鼓吹什么“史上最绿色的奥运”。悲哀的是，现实总是赶不上公关。伦敦奥委会成立了旨在监督环境行为的可持续委员会，不过这家机构没有实权。事实证明，当官方让BP这样的企业成为“可持续伙伴”的时候，唯一的甄选标准就是看谁的钱包够鼓。
Rather than a pay-to-play program that reeks of greenwashing, the Olympics needs independent monitors to keep the local organizing committee in check. This watchdog must have the power to enforce sustainability promises and impose penalties if need be. Another innovation to reduce the Olympics’ ecological footprint would be to encourage creative bids from multiple cities and even neighboring countries, sharing the burden and requiring less construction.
奥运会不应该采取散发着“漂绿”意味的付费入场模式，而是需要一家独立监督机构来让各承办地的组委会按章行事。这家监督机构必须有实权，如有必要，有权强制履行可持续承诺并开出罚单。减少奥运会生态足迹的另一项革新是，鼓励有新意的申办方式，可以多座城市乃至几个邻国共同申办。这样做可以分摊成本，减少对新建筑项目的需求。