RIO DE JANEIRO — The Olympics is Michael Phelps returning to the pool, Simone Biles going for gymnastics gold and Ashton Eaton looking for another decathlon win.
里约热内卢——在本届奥运会上，迈克尔·菲尔普斯(Michael Phelps)将重返泳池， 西蒙·拜尔斯(Simone Biles)将为体操金牌而战，阿什顿·伊顿(Ashton Eaton)将寻求十项全能赛场上的又一场胜利。
But that is just one Olympics, the one that Americans are focused on. There are more than 200 countries at the Rio Games, and each has its own Olympic heroes and obsessions.
但这仅仅是美国人眼中的奥运会。参加本届里约奥运会的国家共有200多个，每个国家都有自己的奥运英雄，以及自己的兴趣点。
With the help of some of the many journalists who have converged on Rio from around the world, here’s a look at how other countries are seeing the Games.
在大量从世界各地汇聚到里约的记者帮助下，我们得以了解其他国家如何看待本届奥运会。
China
中国
The Chinese swimmer most cite as the biggest threat is Sun Yang, a double gold medal winner in London four years ago. But Chinese fans are more focused on the 100-meter freestyle contender Ning Zetao. Why? Because he’s “superhandsome,” said Jianjie Cao of Xinhua News. That has given him outsized popularity in China, “especially with the girls,” Cao said.
在很多人眼里， 中国游泳运动员孙杨被列为最大的威胁，他在四年前的伦敦奥运会上夺得了两枚金牌。但中国的体育迷更关注100米自由泳的参赛者宁泽涛。为什么？因为他“超帅”， 新华社的曹建杰说。这让他在中国受到极大欢迎，“尤其是在女孩当中，”曹建杰说。
Chinese fans are also focused on diving, and Wu Minxia, who has four gold medals over the last three Games. The equal-opportunity Cao declared her to be “beautiful.”
中国的体育迷还很关注跳水项目，以及在此前三届奥运会上获得四枚金牌的吴敏霞。不偏不倚的曹建杰说她“很美”。
The two-time defending badminton champion Lin Dan is a somewhat more divisive figure. A former member of the Chinese Army, he was known for saluting on the podium. But his tattoos, Cao said, are not for every fan.
曾两次夺得奥运会冠军的羽毛球运动员林丹在某种程度上是更具争议的人物。他入过伍，曾以在领奖台上敬军礼闻名。但曹建杰说，他的纹身并非每个体育迷都喜欢。
South Korea
韩国
Sports relegated to the triple-digit channels in the United States will be riveting South Koreans over the next two weeks.
未来两周里，在美国只能占据序号为三位数的电视频道的体育项目将让韩国人兴奋起来。
In archery, South Korea might win all four golds on offer, said Tin-ji Wang of the Yonhap News Agency. And could the biggest star of the games from South Korea actually be a pistol shooter? Jin Jong-oh will be trying for the 10-meter air pistol/50-meter pistol double.
韩国有可能包揽射箭项目的四枚金牌，韩联社(Yonhap News Agency)的王天智（Tin-ji Wang，音）说。另外，本届奥运会上最光芒四射的韩国选手真的会是一位手枪射击运动员吗？秦钟午(Jin Jong-oh)将为10米气手枪和50米手枪的两枚金牌而战。
A particular hero to Korean fans is An Chang-rim, the world’s No. 1-ranked lightweight judo competitor. Born in Japan to Korean parents, An chose to compete for the land of his forebears, earning undying admiration there.
对韩国的体育迷而言，世界排名第一的轻量级柔道选手安昌林(An Chang-rim)是一个特别的英雄。安昌林出生于日本，但父母均为韩国人，他选择代表祖国出战，为此在那里获得了无尽的尊崇。
Japan
日本
Two Japanese athletes will be going for a feat that few others have accomplished: winning the same event at four consecutive Games. Saori Yoshida and Kaori Icho have each won wrestling titles at every Olympics since 2004, when women’s wrestling was added to the program. They will try to join two Americans, Carl Lewis and the discus thrower Al Oerter, with four gold medals in a row.
两名日本运动员试图完成很少有人能够达成的壮举；连续第四次在奥运会的同一个项目中夺冠。自从女子摔跤在2004年被列为正式比赛项目以来，吉田沙保里(Saori Yoshida)和伊调馨(Kaori Icho)在每一届奥运会上都摘得了摔跤金牌。她们将向卡尔·刘易斯(Carl Lewis)和铁饼名将阿尔弗雷德·厄特(Al Oerter)看齐，竭力夺得四连冠。
Swimming will also be in the headlines in Japan, said Makoto Morimoto of Kyodo News. In the men’s 400 individual medley, the Japanese swimmers Kosuke Hagino and Daiya Seto could finish 1-2.
共同社(Kyodo News)的森本诚（Makoto Morimoto，音）说，游泳项目也将登上新闻头条。日本游泳运动员萩野公介(Kosuke Hagino)和濑户大也(Daiya Seto)可能会分获男子400米个人混合泳的冠亚军。
Morimoto says Japan can win four gold medals in judo, and the men’s gymnastics team is looking for gold with Kohei Uchimura in the individual event and in the team event.
森本诚说，日本能在柔道赛场上夺得4枚金牌；男子体操队有望在团体赛中夺冠，并靠内村航平(Kohei Uchimura)在单项比赛中夺金。
Australia
澳大利亚
As usual, it’s all about the pool, said Mick Carroll of News Corp Australia. The team was disappointing in London. “Some of the men got cocky; the camaraderie wasn’t there,” Carroll said, but hopes are high for a return to glory in Rio. The biggest stars are the freestyle sprinters: the sisters Cate and Bronte Campbell for the women and Cameron McEvoy for the men.
与以往一样，人们的目光全都聚焦在泳池内，澳大利亚新闻集团(News Corp Australia)的米克·卡罗尔(Mick Carroll)说。澳大利亚游泳队在伦敦的表现让人失望。“当时，一些人变得狂妄自大，友爱的精神荡然无存，”卡罗尔说，但人们对游泳队在里约重振雄风抱有很大期望。短距离自由泳运动员是最耀眼的明星：女运动员中有凯特和布朗蒂·坎贝尔(Cate and Bronte Campbell)姐妹，男运动员当数卡梅伦·麦克沃伊(Cameron McEvoy)。
Though she may not even make the final, hurdler Michelle Jenneke has become a YouTube sensation and is plastered on soft-drink billboards in Rio thanks to a hip-wiggling dance she does before the start of races.
跨栏选手米歇尔·詹尼克(Michelle Jenneke)可能连决赛都进不去，但由于习惯于在比赛开始前跳扭臀舞，她已经在YouYube上引起轰动，其形象还登上了里约的软饮料广告牌。
Australians are also interested in the women’s rugby competition, where their team will compete against its fierce rival New Zealand. “They are a lovely team of great girls who are thankful to be here,” Carroll said.
澳大利亚人对女子橄榄球比赛也很感兴趣。澳大利亚队将与其劲敌新西兰队同场竞技。“这是一支可爱的队伍，队里的女孩很棒，能来到这里她们都心怀感恩，”卡罗尔说。
Italy
意大利
The big name at the Games is the world-record-holding swimmer Federica Pellegrini, who won gold in the 200-meter freestyle in 2008 but missed out on a medal in 2012. Pellegrini’s popularity in Italy rivals that of top soccer players, said Andrea Buongiovanni of La Gazzetta dello Sport.
保持着世界纪录的游泳运动员费代丽卡·佩莱格里尼(Federica Pellegrini)是一位大名鼎鼎的奥运选手，她在2008年夺得了200米自由泳金牌，但在2012年与奖牌擦肩而过。佩莱格里尼在意大利的受欢迎程度，与最顶尖的足球运动员不相上下，《米兰体育报》(La Gazzetta dello Sport)的安德烈·布翁乔瓦尼(Andrea Buongiovanni)说。
While swimming has surged in the last 15 years in Italy, the country’s fencing success goes back to the dawn of the Games. The nation will also be focused on the volleyball and water polo teams, and cycling, where the 2014 Tour de France winner Vincenzo Nibali will compete.
过去15年间，意大利在游泳项目中迅速崛起，但该国在击剑项目中的成就一直可以追溯到奥运会创办初期。意大利人还会关注其排球队和水球队，以及自行车比赛——2014年环法赛冠军文森佐·尼巴利(Vincenzo Nibali)将参与竞逐。