Louis Zamperini, an Olympic runner whose remarkable story of survival as a prisoner of war in World War II gained new attention in 2010 with the publication of a best-selling biography by Laura Hillenbrand, died Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 97.
路易斯·赞佩里尼(Louis Zamperini)曾是奥运会的赛跑运动员，2010年，由于劳拉·希伦布兰德(Laura Hillenbrand)一本畅销传纪的出版，他作为二战战俘幸存的传奇经历再次引发关注。周三，赞佩里尼在洛杉矶去世，终年97岁。
A statement released by his family said he had been suffering from pneumonia.
赞佩里尼家人发表的声明中说，他生前患有肺炎。
Hillenbrand's book, “Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption” recounted in vivid detail how Zamperini — a track star at the University of Southern California and an airman during the war — crashed into the Pacific, was listed as dead and spent 47 days adrift in a life raft before his capture by the Japanese. It rose to No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list.
希伦布兰德撰写的《绝不屈服：一个关于求生、坚韧和救赎的二战故事》(Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption)，用丰富的细节描述了赞佩里尼的经历——曾经是南加州大学(University of Southern California)的田径明星，在战争中成为空军军官，随飞机坠入太平洋，被列入死亡名单，在救生筏上漂泊47天，后被日军抓获。该书曾荣登《纽约时报》畅销书排行榜榜首。
Universal Pictures purchased rights to the book. The film, directed by Angelina Jolie and starring Jack O'Connell as Zamperini, is to be released in December.
环球影业(Universal Pictures)购买了这本书的电影拍摄权。这部由安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)执导的电影将于今年12月上映，杰克·奥康奈尔(Jack O’Connell)出演赞佩里尼。
Shortly after America entered the war in 1941, Zamperini, then in his early 20s, enlisted in the Army Air Corps. He was a bombardier in a B-24 that was flying a rescue mission on May 27, 1944, when his plane, nicknamed the Green Hornet, malfunctioned and fell into the sea.
1941年美国参战后不久，20岁出头的赞佩里尼加入了陆军航空队(Army Air Corps)。1944年5月27日，赞佩里尼在一架绰号为青蜂侠的B-24轰炸机上担任投弹手。这架飞机当时正在执行救援任务，结果出了故障，坠入海中。
Zamperini, the co-pilot, 2nd Lt. Russell Phillips, and the tail gunner, Sgt. Francis McNamara, shared a raft, and fought off hunger, thirst, heat and storms while trying to avoid being shot by Japanese planes or eaten by sharks. They subsisted on rainwater and the few fish they could catch. Zamperini, who was 5-foot-9, went from 125 pounds to 75 pounds. After 33 days, McNamara died.
赞佩里尼和副驾驶员拉塞尔·菲利普斯(Russell Phillips)少尉，以及机尾射手弗朗西斯·麦克纳马拉(Francis McNamara)中士被困在一个救生筏上，他们忍受着饥饿、口渴、高温和风暴，同时还要避免被日本的飞机击中或被鲨鱼吃掉。他们以雨水和自己能抓到的不多的鱼维持着生命。当时，身高一米七五的赞佩里尼的体重从57公斤掉到了34公斤。33天后，麦克纳马拉身亡。
In June of 1944, Anthony and Louise Zamperini, at home in Torrance, California, received the following message regarding their son:
1944年6月，安东尼·赞佩里尼(Anthony Zamperini)与妻子路易丝(Louise)在加州托伦斯收到了这样一条关于儿子的消息：
“In grateful memory of First Lieutenant Louis S. Zamperini, A.S. No. 0-663341, who died in the service of his country in the Central Pacific Area, May 28, 1944. He stands in the unbroken line of patriots who have dared to die that freedom might live, and grow, and increase its blessings. Freedom lives, and through it, he lives — in a way that humbles the undertakings of most men.” It was signed, “Franklin D. Roosevelt, President of the United States.”
我们怀着感激之心纪念已故的中尉路易斯·S·赞佩里尼(Louis S. Zamperini)，编号AS 0-663341。他于1944年5月28日在中部太平洋战场以身殉国。他一如众多爱国先烈，视死如归，为的是让自由得以存在、壮大并造福更多人。自由长存，而赞佩里尼与自由同在——他的壮举让大多数人的追求都黯然失色。”落款的签名是，“美国总统，富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)。”
But the two remaining survivors on the raft were eventually captured by the Japanese. They then suffered added harrowing experiences as they were shuttled from one prison to another.
但救生筏上的两个幸存者最终被日本兵俘获。他们随后辗转于不同的监狱，经受了更多悲惨遭遇。
“I could take the beatings and the physical punishment,” Zamperini said, “but it was the attempt to destroy your dignity, to make you a nonentity that was the hardest thing to bear.” Zamperini said his athletic training helped him withstand the torment. “For one thing, you have to learn self-discipline if you are going to succeed as an athlete,” he said. “For another thing, you have to have confidence in yourself and believe that no matter what you're faced with, you can deal with it — that you just can't give up. And then there's the aspect of staying in shape. And humor helped a lot, even in the gravest times.”
“我可以忍受殴打和身体上的惩罚，”赞佩里尼说，“但最难以忍受的，是那些企图毁掉你尊严、让你变得无足轻重的企图。”赞佩里尼说，他当运动员时接受的训练帮助他忍受住了折磨。“一方面，如果你想要成为一名成功的运动员，就必须学会自律，另一方面，你要对自己有信心，相信无论面对什么情况，你都能应付得了——不能放弃。还有，要保持良好的身体素质。此外，幽默也很管用，哪怕是在最艰难的时刻。”
In 1945, at the war's end, Zamperini was liberated along with hundreds of other prisoners of war at the Naoetsu camp, northwest of Tokyo. “Though he was still sick, wasted and weak, he glowed with euphoria such as he had never experienced,” Hillenbrand wrote.
1945年战争结束时，赞佩里尼和其他数百名战俘在东京西北部直江津的战俘营被释放。“尽管他仍然生着病，憔悴而虚弱，他却表露出了自己人生中从未有过的狂喜，”希伦布兰德写道。
Louis Silvie Zamperini was born on Jan. 26, 1917, in Olean, New York. His family moved to Torrance in 1920, where he set the national high school record in the mile at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 1934; his record time of 4 minutes, 21.2 seconds would last for 20 years.
路易斯·西尔维·赞佩里尼(Louis Silvie Zamperini)1917年1月26日出生于纽约州的奥利安。他和全家于1920年搬到了托伦斯。1934年，他在洛杉矶纪念体育场的一英里赛跑中创下了4分21秒2的的全国高中生纪录，这个纪录保持了20年。
Two years later, in the 5,000-meter Olympic trials at Randalls Island in New York, he finished in a dead heat with Don Lash, the world-record holder, which qualified him for the Olympics.
两年后，在纽约州兰德尔岛举行的奥运会5000米选拔赛中，他最后几乎与世界纪录保持者唐·拉什(Don Lash)并肩撞线，并为此赢得了奥运会参赛资格。
As a teenager, he went to the Berlin Olympics and competed in the 5,000-meter race, finishing eighth (Lash finished 13th), though Zamperini had a good finishing kick. During the 1936 Games, he stood with other athletes near Hitler's box and wanted a photograph of the Nazi leader.
年未弱冠的他参加了柏林奥运会5000米的比赛，虽然只取得了第八名的成绩（拉什第13），却在冲刺阶段跑得极快。在1936年的这届奥运会上，他和其他运动员站在希特勒的包厢附近，想要与这位纳粹领导人合个影。
“I was pretty naive about world politics,” Zamperini said in an interview with The New York Times, “and I thought he looked funny, like something out of a Laurel and Hardy film, especially the way he stamped his feet and slapped his thighs.” Because he was not close enough, he asked one of Hitler's entourage to take Hitler's picture for him. “It was the skinny guy,” Zamperini said, referring to Joseph Goebbels, the minister of propaganda.
“我那时对世界政治的看法很幼稚，”赞佩里尼在接受《纽约时报》的一次采访时说，“我觉得他看起来很有趣，就像是劳莱与哈台(Laurel and Hardy )电影里的人物，尤其是他跺脚和拍大腿时的样子。”因为距离不够近，他让希特勒身边的一个人为他拍了一张希特勒的照片。“那是个小瘦子，”赞佩里尼说。他说的是宣传部长约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbels)。
Shortly after, Zamperini met Hitler, who shook his hand and said, “Ah, you're the boy with the fast finish.” Two years later, in 1938, Zamperini set a national collegiate mile record of 4:08.3, which stood for 15 years.
随后，赞佩里尼就见到了希特勒。希特勒和他握手时说，“啊，你就是那个冲刺很快的小伙子。”两年后的1938年，赞佩里尼创下了4分8秒3的全国大学生一英里赛跑记录，这个记录保持了15年。
When Zamperini returned to America after the war, he fell into alcoholism and nearly divorced his wife (he and Cynthia remained married for 54 years until her death in 2001).
在战争结束后，赞佩里尼回到了美国，他开始酗酒，还差点与妻子离婚（他和辛西娅的婚姻持续了54年，直到她2001年去世）。