The success of women in Olympic sports can be tied to the opportunities available in their home countries. Women won more total medals than men in 29 countries that participated in the 2016 Rio Games and at least one other Summer Olympics.
女性在奥林匹克运动中的成功，可以和她们在自己的祖国获得的机遇联系在一起。在既参加了2016年里约奥运会，又参加过至少另外一届夏季奥运会的国家中，有29个国家的女性收获的奖牌总数超过了男性。
American men won more medals than American women for much of the history of the Olympics, but that gap began to narrow in the 1980s. A decade before, in 1972, the federal government had granted women equal access to sports through the education amendment known as Title IX. Women surpassed men in the Summer Games medal count for the first time at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.
在奥运会历史上，很多情况下美国男性运动员摘得的奖牌比女性多，但这种差距在80年代开始缩小。再往前推十年的1972年，联邦政府通过了那项被称为《第九条》(Title IX)的教育法修正案，准许女性平等地参加体育运动。在2008年的北京奥运会上，美国女性在夏季奥运会上取得的奖牌数量首次超过男性。
In China, that feat came 20 years earlier. Women in China have performed better than men in their events at the Olympics since 1988, bringing home about 10 more medals each time.
在中国，这项成就提前了20年。从1988年开始，中国女性奥运选手的表现一直比男性更胜一筹，每一次都能比男性多为她们的祖国带回约十枚奖牌。
Jamaica, a country with fewer than three million people, experienced the emergence of male and female superstars in track and field in 2008: Usain Bolt and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce. Although the country’s female athletes won more medals than men at the Rio Games, Bolt received far more attention.
2008年，人口不足300万的牙买加经历了男性和女性田径超级明星的诞生：尤塞恩·博尔特(Usain Bolt)和谢莉-安·弗雷泽-普赖斯(Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce)。在里约奥运会上，尽管该国女运动员获得的奖牌数量超过男运动员，但博尔特受到的关注远多于她们。
Mónica Puig earned Puerto Rico its first Olympic gold medal by winning the women’s singles tennis final. She was also the only athlete of the 40 representing Puerto Rico to win a medal this year.
在网球女单决赛中胜出的莫妮卡·普格(Mónica Puig)为波多黎各赢得了首枚奥运金牌。她也是今年代表波多黎各参赛的40名运动员中唯一一个获得奖牌的。
The number of events that women are allowed to compete in is controlled by the International Olympic Committee and various sport federations.
允许女性参与角逐的赛事数量，由国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)和各种各样的体育协会控制。
Women first appeared at the Olympics in 1900; they competed in five sports. Other sports were added slowly, and the gap did not begin to shrink drastically until the 1990s. In 1991, the I.O.C. decided that potential new Olympic sports must include events for women. Five years later, it revised the Olympic Charter to express the committee’s responsibility “to encourage and support the promotion of women in sport.”
女性首次出现在奥运赛场上是在1900年。当时，她们参加了五类运动。其他项目是慢慢加进去的，直到90年代，男选手和女选手之间的差距才开始急剧缩小。1991年，国际奥委会决定，潜在的新奥运会运动必须包含面向女性的项目。五年后，为了表达其“鼓励并支持推动妇女”参与体育运动的职责，国际奥委会修订了《奥林匹克宪章》(Olympic Charter)。