How aggressive is the human female? When the anthropologist Sarah B. Hrdy surveyed the research literature three decades ago, she concluded that “the competitive component in the nature of women remains anecdotal, intuitively sensed, but not confirmed by science.”
人类女性的好斗程度如何？30年前，人类学家萨拉·B·荷迪(Sarah B. Hrdy)在调查研究文献时总结道：“女人天性中的竞争性还只是传说和直观的感觉，并未经过科学的证实。”
Science has come a long way since then, as Dr. Hrdy notes in her introduction to a recent issue of Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society devoted entirely to the topic of female aggression. She credits the “stunning” amount of new evidence partly to better research techniques and partly to the entry of so many women into scientific fields once dominated by men.
荷迪博士在介绍最近一期专就女性好斗性做了研究专题的《自然科学会报》(Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society)时指出，从那之后，科学已经取得了长足的进步。她将数量“惊人”的新证据的出现归功于研究技术的改进，以及在曾经一直是男性占主导地位的科学领域里，如今涌现了众多的女性科学家。
The existence of female competition may seem obvious to anyone who has been in a high-school cafeteria or a singles bar, but analyzing it has been difficult because it tends be more subtle and indirect (and a lot less violent) than the male variety. Now that researchers have been looking more closely, they say that this “intrasexual competition” is the most important factor explaining the pressures that young women feel to meet standards of sexual conduct and physical appearance.
对于任何曾经去过高中自助餐厅或单身酒吧的人而言，女性间的竞争显而易见，但想要对它进行分析却一直相当困难，因为它采取的方式往往比男性中的竞争更加微妙和间接（暴力成分也少得多）。于是，研究人员进行了更加密切的观察，并提出，以“同性竞争”为主的因素造成了一种压力，促使年轻女性感到她们必须在性举止和外表方面达到某些标准。
The old doubts about female competitiveness derived partly from an evolutionary analysis of the reproductive odds in ancient polygynous societies in which some men were left single because dominant males had multiple wives. So men had to compete to have a chance of reproducing, whereas virtually all women were assured of it.
以往人们一直对女性间的竞争持怀疑态度，这部分是源于对古代一夫多妻制社会中繁殖机率的进化分析。在上述社会中，有权有势的男性占有了多个妻子，害得另外一些男性不得不孤老终生。因此，男性们必需为了繁殖的机会相互竞争，而几乎所有的女性都无需操这份心。
But even in those societies, women were not passive trophies for victorious males. They had their own incentives to compete with one another for more desirable partners and more resources for their children. And now that most people live in monogamous societies, most women face the same odds as men. In fact, they face tougher odds in some places, like the many college campuses with more women than men.
但即使在这些社会中，女性也并非只是被动地成为男性胜利者的战利品。她们之间存在独特的竞争动机：获得更称心如意的郎君，以及为子女争取更多的资源。到了现代，人们大多生活在一夫一妻制的社会里，大部分的女性与男性的繁殖机率都相同。实际上，在某些地方，譬如很多阴盛阳衰的大学校园，她们所面临的形势可能更为严峻。
To see how female students react to a rival, researchers brought pairs of them into a laboratory at McMaster University for what was ostensibly a discussion about female friendships. But the real experiment began when another young woman entered the room asking where to find one of the researchers.
为了观察女大学生如何应对竞争对手，研究人员邀请她们来到麦克马斯特大学(McMaster University)的实验室参加研究。表面上这是一场关于“女性间的友谊”的讨论，但直到另一名年轻女子进入房间，并询问该去哪里寻找某一研究人员时，真正的实验这才拉开序幕。
This woman had been chosen by the researchers, Tracy Vaillancourt and Aanchal Sharma, because she “embodied qualities considered attractive from an evolutionary perspective,” meaning a “low waist-to-hip ratio, clear skin, large breasts.” Sometimes, she wore a T-shirt and jeans, other times a tightfitting, low-cut blouse and short skirt.
这名女子是由研究人员特拉西·瓦扬古(Tracy Vaillancourt)和安吉尔·夏尔马(Aanchal Sharma)事先特意挑选的，因为她“体现了从进化学角度而言具有吸引力的素质”，意即：“较低的腰臀比，细腻的皮肤，丰满的胸部。”有时她身着T恤和牛仔裤，在其他时候则穿着紧身低胸上衣和短裙。
In jeans, she attracted little notice and no negative comments from the students, whose reactions were being secretly recorded during the encounter and after the woman left the room. But when she wore the other outfit, virtually all the students reacted with hostility.
研究人员暗中观察并记录了在她进入房间时和离开后学生们对她的反应。结果发现，在穿牛仔裤时，她很少引起注意，也没有受到什么负面的评论。但是，当她打扮火辣时，几乎所有的学生都表现出了敌意。
They stared at her, looked her up and down, rolled their eyes and sometimes showed outright anger. One asked her in disgust, “What the [expletive] is that?”
她们死死盯着她，上上下下评头论足，挤眉弄眼，有时则毫不客气地将怒气发泄出来。一名学生充满厌恶地问她：“什么[脏话]玩意儿？”
Most of the aggression, though, happened after she left the room. Then the students laughed about her and impugned her motives. One student suggested that she dressed that way in order to have sex with a professor. Another said that her breasts “were about to pop out.”
但是，大部分的敌意在她离开房间之后才倾泻而出。学生们嘲笑她并指摘她的动机。一位学生暗示她这样花枝招展的是为了勾引教授上床。另一人则说，她的胸部简直都“呼之欲出”了。
The results of the experiment jibe with evidence that this “mean girl” form of indirect aggression is used more by adolescents and young women than by older women, who have less incentive to handicap rivals once they marry. Other studies have shown that the more attractive an adolescent girl or woman is, the more likely she is to become a target for indirect aggression from her female peers.
这项实验的结果与其他证据一致表明，“下贱丫头”这类刻薄的间接攻击在少女和年轻女性中更为明显，而较年长的妇女因为已经结婚，她们跟“竞争对手”过不去的动机相对就不那么强烈。其他的研究也表明，少女或青年女子越有魅力，她就越容易成为同龄女伴的众矢之的。
“Women are indeed very capable of aggressing against others, especially women they perceive as rivals,” said Dr. Vaillancourt, now a psychologist at the University of Ottawa. “The research also shows that suppression of female sexuality is by women, not necessarily by men.”
“女性对他人的攻击力其实不可小觑，在面对她们眼里的对手时尤其如此，”渥太华大学(University of Ottawa)的心理学家瓦扬古博士说。“该研究还表明，压抑女性性征的未必是男性，更多的反而是女性所为。”
Stigmatizing female promiscuity — a.k.a. slut-shaming — has often been blamed on men, who have a Darwinian incentive to discourage their spouses from straying. But they also have a Darwinian incentive to encourage other women to be promiscuous. Dr. Vaillancourt said the experiment and other research suggest the stigma is enforced mainly by women.
人们往往谴责男性喜欢给女性扣上水性杨花的污名（比如骂人是荡妇），因为他们拥有达尔文主义的动机——要防止自己配偶的不忠行为。但同样从达尔文主义来讲，他们也具有完全相反的另一个动机——鼓励其他女性在性生活方面更加开放。瓦扬古博士表示，该实验和其他研究均表明，诬指女性滥交的大多还是女性。
“Sex is coveted by men,” she said. “Accordingly, women limit access as a way of maintaining advantage in the negotiation of this resource. Women who make sex too readily available compromise the power-holding position of the group, which is why many women are particularly intolerant of women who are, or seem to be, promiscuous.”
“没有哪个男性不对性爱趋之若鹜，”她说，“因此，女性将其作为一种稀缺资源限制其‘使用’后，就可以在相关的谈判中保持优势。而太容易让男性得手的女性损害了该人群的这种主导地位，这也就是为什么很多女性都认为那些一看就十分风骚的女人‘尤其无法容忍’。”
Indirect aggression can take a psychological toll on women who are ostracized or feel pressured to meet impossible standards, like the vogue of thin bodies in many modern societies. Studies have shown that women’s ideal body shape is to be thinner than average — and thinner than what men consider the ideal shape to be. This pressure is frequently blamed on the ultrathin female role models featured in magazines and on television, but Christopher J. Ferguson and other researchers say that it’s mainly the result of competition with their peers, not media images.
间接敌意可从心理层面造成巨大的压力，迫使受到排斥的女性去追求某些不可企及的标准，例如现代社会正风靡一时的“骨感美”。研究表明，女性眼里的完美体形比正常水平要偏瘦——比男性心目中的理想体型也偏瘦。人们常常将这种压力归咎于杂志和电视上的那些骨头架子似的女明星，但克里斯托弗·J·弗格森(Christopher J. Ferguson)和其他研究人员则认为，这并非媒体形象的错，而是女性之间相互攀比的结果。
“To a large degree the media reflects trends that are going on in society, not creates them,” said Dr. Ferguson, a psychologist at Stetson University. He found that women’s dissatisfaction with their bodies did not correlate with what they watched on television at home. Nor were they influenced by TV programs shown in laboratory experiments: Watching the svelte actresses on “Scrubs” induced no more feelings of inferiority than watching the not-so-svelte star of “Roseanne.”
“在很大程度上，媒体只是反映了本来就存在于我们社会中的潮流趋势，而不会凭空创造它们，”斯泰森大学(Stetson University)的心理学家弗格森博士说。他发现，女性对自己身材的不满与她们在家里从电视上看到了什么内容无关。同样，她们在实验室的实验中观看的电视节目也没造成什么差别：观看《实习医生成长记》(Scrubs)里面身姿曼妙的女演员并不会比观看《罗西尼》(Roseanne)里面不那么苗条的明星更容易引起她们的自卑感。
But he found that women were more likely to feel worse when they compared themselves with peers in their own social circles, or even if they were in a room with a thin stranger, like the assistant to Dr. Ferguson who ran an experiment with female college students. When she wore makeup and sleek business attire, the students were less satisfied with their own bodies than when she wore baggy sweats and no makeup. And they felt still worse when there was an attractive man in the room with her.
但他发现，当女性们将自己与社交圈的同龄女性拿来比较时，很容易会产生不快，甚至，即使是跟一名纤瘦的陌生女子共处一室也会造成这种阴影。譬如，在弗格森博士的一项实验中，与随意套了件宽松毛衣素面朝天时相比，苗条的女助理在身着优雅职业套装并略施粉黛时更容易让女大学生们对她们自己的体型感到不满。如果在场的还有一名风度翩翩的男性，她们的感觉还要更糟。
“Sexual competition among females seems to increase due to circumstances that tend to be particularly common in affluent societies,” Dr. Ferguson said.
“在富裕的社会里，人们共享着同一个生活环境，这使得女性之间的性竞争愈演愈烈，”弗格森博士说。
In traditional villages, people married at an early age to someone nearby, but young men and women in modern societies are free to postpone marriage as they search long and far for better options. The result is more competition because there are so many more rivals — and there’s no longer any scientific doubt that both sexes are in to win it.
传统小村庄里的少男少女早早就与邻家的青梅竹马缔结婚约共度一生，现代社会里的青年男女却无须这样匆忙，他们有很多的时间从茫茫人海里耐心寻找更心仪的爱人。结果就是引起了更加激烈的竞争——谁让竞争对手也随之增多了呢？至此，人们再也不会有任何的科学疑问：无论男女皆为爱而战，而且，他们都势在必得。