Once during a disagreement with my husband, I complained that he wasn’t helping enough with our daughter, and I gave him a long list of the parenting chores I was shouldering on my own. “But you like doing all that stuff,” he blurted in his defense. I don’t recall how the conversation ended (probably badly), but I thought of it while reading a new study about the more mundane responsibilities of parenting. Researchers asked 181 heterosexual college professors who had children 2 or younger to rate, on a scale of 1 to 5, the pleasure they experienced from child care.
一次，在跟老公吵架时，我抱怨在照顾女儿这件事上，他不够出力，我还列了长长一串单子，讲明在为人父母的工作上，我一个人承担了过多的事情。“但是你喜欢做这些事啊，”他脱口而出。我已经记不得这次对话是如何告终的了（很可能是不欢而散），但在阅读一篇有关父母日常俗务的新研究时，我又回想起了这件事。在这篇文章中，研究人员询问了181位育有2岁或2岁以下子女的异性恋大学教授，并请他们按照5分制，为他们从照顾孩子中所得到的愉悦感评分。
On 16 out of 25 child-care tasks — like changing diapers, taking a child to the doctor or getting up in the middle of a night to attend to a child — women reported statistically significant higher levels of enjoyment than men. The only parenting issue that gave women less pleasure than it gave men was having to manage who does what for the child. Over all, women’s scores were 10 percent higher than men’s.
25项照顾孩子的任务中，比如换尿布、送孩子看病及半夜起床照顾宝宝，其中有16项女性的评分更高，有统计学显著性表明她们从中得到的快乐多于男性。在家长事务中，女性的愉悦感只有在一项上显著低于男性，那项的内容是对宝宝的照顾职责进行夫妻分工。总的来说，女性的评分比男性高出10个百分点。
Is it really true that women end up shouldering more of the parenting burden simply because they like it more — or at least dislike it less? Steven Rhoads, a University of Virginia political-science professor and the study’s lead author, surmised that some women may have inflated their enjoyment scores because of feelings of guilt or cultural pressure. But he also said some research suggests that a woman’s parenting skills are deeply rooted in biology. Women with high levels of testosterone, for instance, often show less interest in babies, while a father’s testosterone levels are known to drop when a new baby arrives, ostensibly a biological mechanism to encourage bonding with the infant.
女人在照顾孩子上承担了更多责任，这仅仅是因为她们更喜欢做——或者至少不那么讨厌吗？弗吉尼亚州立大学(University of Virginia)政治学教授、本文第一作者史蒂文·罗兹(Steven Rhoads)推测，一些女性有可能夸大了她们的评分，因为她们也许会有负罪感，或者感受到了文化上的阻力。但他也说，一些研究表明，女性的育儿技能根植于生物本能。比方说，睾丸激素水平较高的女性往往对小宝宝兴趣欠缺，而现在已经证实，在家中新宝宝出生时，爸爸的睾丸激素会应声而落，这种生物学机制可以促进父亲与新生儿的情感联系。
Women are also far more likely to take advantage of family-leave benefits to care for children. In the study, all the universities offered paid family leave, and 69 percent of the women took it, while only 12 percent of the men did. In Sweden, where family leave for both parents is particularly generous, men use about 20 percent of the 480-day benefit. Women use nearly all of it.
此外，女性也更有可能利用产假福利照顾宝宝。这项研究发现，所有大学都提供带薪产假，其中69%的女性休了产假，而休陪产假的男性仅有12%。在瑞典，提供给父母双方的带薪产假福利十分慷慨，多达480天，男性平均休了20%的陪产假，而女性几乎会休满产假。
It’s difficult to untangle how cultural and economic pressures or biological hard-wiring influence parenting. Plenty of men change diapers, and studies show that mothers and fathers alike spend more time with their children than they used to. Men have more than doubled the time they spend on child care since 1985. Yet women still spend twice as much time with the kids as men, says the University of Maryland sociologist John Robinson, who oversees the Americans’ Use of Time project.
很难厘清文化、经济压力或生物学基础对养儿育女的影响。很多男人也会换尿布，而且研究显示，现在无论是父亲还是母亲，陪伴子女的时间都比以往更长。自1985年以来，爸爸们照顾子女的时间已经翻了一倍多。可是，据负责“美国人使用时间”项目的马里兰大学(University of Maryland)社会学家约翰·罗宾逊(John Robinson)表示，女性在子女身上花费的时间仍为男性的两倍。
Notably in Rhoads’s study, the two parenting activities that gave men the most pleasure (and women, too) were playing and talking with their kids. But when men were asked to rate how often they actually did those things, their scores were about 10 and 40 percent lower, respectively, than women’s. In the end, perhaps the issue is not that mothers are overburdened by their children — my husband was right when he said I liked being a mom — but that men, for all their progress as fathers, are still missing out.
在罗兹的研究中有个值得注意的发现：有两项活动最让男性（同样也让女性）感到高兴，分别是和子女玩耍及说话。但在要求男性对其真正做这些事情的频率打分时，他们的得分分别比女性低了10%和40%。说到底，我们讨论的话题也许并非是母亲在照顾孩子上承受了过重的负担——我丈夫说我喜欢为人母亲的感觉，这话说得一点没错——但是男性，虽然他们在当爸爸这件事上有进步，仍处在缺席状态。