Hey.
嗨。
So, how’s your week going? Have any fun plans for the weekend?
这周过得怎么样？周末有什么好玩的计划吗？
You seem pretty cool. You free now?
你看起来很酷。现在有空吗？
You wanna read an article about women and online dating apps?
你想读一篇关于女人和在线交友应用程序的文章吗？
If you’ve never used the apps or websites like OkCupid, Tinder and Bumble, the opening lines above might sound horrible. If you have used the apps, and you are a woman, those lines most likely sound horribly familiar.
如果你从未用过OkCupid、Tinder和Bumble这样的应用程序或网站，那么上面这些开场白可能听起来很烂。如果你用过这些应用程序，而且你是个女人，那么这些话很可能听起来很熟悉，但还是很烂。
The boring conversations — if you can call them that — tend to be started by men, owing to centuries of Western courtship convention that have remained mostly consistent in the digital age. But in data published Monday, OkCupid, a popular online dating site, said women who take the initiative to reach out to men are rewarded with higher response rates and more desirable men.
这种无聊的对话——如果你称它们为对话的话——通常是男人先发起的，因为几百年来的西方求爱传统，在数字时代依然基本延续了下来。但是，热门在线交友网站OkCupid于周一公布的数据表明，主动跟男人联系的女人会得到更高的回复率和更心仪的男人。
“There are women on the site that are reaching out, and they’re getting all of the benefits,” said Jimena Almendares, the chief product officer at OkCupid.
“我们网站上有些女人主动出击，她们得到了所有的好处，”OkCupid的首席产品官希梅纳·阿尔门达雷斯(Jimena Almendares)说。
The company studied a random sample of 70,000 users who had logged in at least three times within the same month. It found that women who sent the first message were 2.5 times more likely to receive a response than men who did the same. And the men the women contacted were more “attractive,” as determined by how other users rate the men’s profiles for both looks and content. OkCupid, which said it has 1.5 men for every woman on the site, said both men and women are aspirational in whom they approach — men send messages to women 17 percentage points more “attractive” than themselves, while women send messages to men 10 percentage points higher. So a woman who simply sifts through her inbox is most likely fielding entreaties from men less attractive than she is, while she’s most likely to get a response if she contacts a more attractive man.
该公司随机研究了每月至少登录该网站3次的7万名用户，发现主动发消息的女人得到回复的几率是主动发消息的男人的2.5倍。而且女人主动联系到的男人更“有魅力”——魅力评分是其他用户对这个男人的外貌和资料的综合评分。OkCupid表示，自己网站上的男女比例是1.5：1，男人和女人在主动联系别人时，都是找比自己优秀的。男人们会主动给综合评分比自己高17%的女人发消息，而女人们会主动给比自己高10%的男人发消息。所以，只查看收件箱的女人很可能大部分时间在是回绝魅力评分比自己低的男人，但是如果她主动联系魅力评分更高的男人，很可能会得到回复。
About 12 percent of first messages men send turn into a date, while 30 percent of women’s first messages end up in a date, the site said. And yet, men send 3.5 times as many first messages on OkCupid as women do.
该网站称，男人主动发出的消息有12%能发展成约会，而女人主动发送的消息有30%能发展成约会。但是，在OkCupid上，男人主动发送的消息是女人的3.5倍。
“Women have very much been trained to sit back and let men come to them,” said Whitney Wolfe, the founder of Bumble, a separate dating app.
另一个交友应用程序Bumble的创始人惠特尼·沃尔夫(Whitney Wolfe)说：“女人们接受的大多数教导是坐在那里等男人来找她们。”
Bumble requires women to flip the presumption that men are the dating aggressors. After a man and a woman indicate mutual interest in each other’s profiles, they’re both notified that there has been a match — but only women can send the first message. That makes women more confident and empowered, while the men are more flattered and relaxed, Ms. Wolfe said.
Bumble要求女人们抛开交友中男人必须主动的论调。如果一个男人和一个女人都表明了对对方的兴趣，那么他们都会被告知配对成功——不过只有女人可以先发消息。沃尔夫说，那样能让女人更有自信和力量，让男人更感到受人欣赏，更放松。
“It makes for a healthier and more enjoyable all-around experience,” she said. “It puts the women in the driver’s seat, and typically women aren’t in the driver’s seat.”
她说：“这会带来更健康、更愉快的整体体验。它让女人坐在了驾驶员的位置上，而女人一般不坐这个位置。”