BEIJING — The request seemed uncontroversial enough. Could the man who was smoking in the elevator of a Chinese apartment building put out his cigarette?
北京——这个要求似乎无可争议。一个在中国一座公寓楼的电梯内吸烟的男人，能把香烟掐灭吗？
But what happened next shocked the woman who had posed the question. The man grew violent and unrestrained, and as the elevator ascended, he attacked her repeatedly, punching her head and grabbing her face. Her young daughter, standing behind a pink bicycle, could only watch.
但接下来发生的事情，让提出这个要求的女子震惊无比。该男子毫无顾忌地使用了暴力，就在电梯上升的过程中，他反复攻击她，打她的头部，抓她的脸。而她年幼的女儿站在一辆粉红色自行车后面，只能眼睁睁地看着这一幕的发生。
A video of the altercation, which took place last week in the northern city of Langfang, lit up Chinese social media on Friday. Many people lamented what they described as a lack of respect for women in Chinese society and the excesses of a male-dominated smoking culture.
上周在北部城市廊坊发生的这场争执，被监控视频录下了下来，上周五引爆了中国的社交媒体。很多人感叹地说，中国社会对女性缺乏尊重，男性主导的吸烟文化没有节制。
“The mother who tried to dissuade that scum from smoking is very brave,” Chen Lan, a writer with a wide following on social media, wrote in a post on Weibo, China’s version of Twitter. “This world still has some hope.”
“那个劝阻渣人吸烟而被打的妈妈，很勇敢。让我们相信这个世界，还有一点点希望。”在“中国版推特”新浪微博上，粉丝众多的作家陈岚写道。
Violence against women is a persistent problem in China and has received new attention in an era when closed-circuit videos are routinely leaked online. This year, a video that showed a woman being dragged down a hallway in a four-star hotel as bystanders stood idle prompted widespread outrage.
在中国，针对妇女的暴力行为是一个长期存在的问题。如今监控视频泄漏到网上成为了一场常态，这个问题也获得了新的关注。今年的一个视频显示一名女性在某四星级酒店被人在地上拖行，而旁观者站在旁边无动于衷，该视频引发了众怒。
Tobacco use divides strictly along gender lines in China, with about half of adult men smoking, according to the World Bank, compared with only about 2 percent of adult women. The government has tried to limit smoking in public places, but the tobacco industry wields significant power.
世界银行(World Bank)的资料显示，在中国，吸烟者在不同性别中的比例差距极大，约有一半的成年男性吸烟，而成年女性中只有大约2%。政府试图限制人们在公共场所吸烟，但烟草行业有很大的影响力。
On social media sites on Friday, many people praised the bravery of the woman, who was identified only as Ms. Li in Chinese news reports.
上周五，在社交媒体上，很多人都称赞这名女子很勇敢。中国新闻报道只透露了她姓李。
A user named Miss ShaOu wrote: “I hate it every time I smell smoke in the elevator or see other people smoke. I curse them 10,000 times in my heart.”
一个名为Miss ShaOu的用户写道:“每次我在电梯里闻到烟味或者看到有人抽烟，心里都会诅咒了他们一万遍。”
In an interview with a Chinese television station, Ms. Li said she told the man, “It’s best if you don’t smoke inside the elevator. You can do it in the hallways.”
在接受中国一家电视台采访的时候，李女士说自己对那个男人说，“您最好在电梯里别吸烟，在楼道里吸也就行了。”
Almost immediately, the man began to resist. “Why is this any of your business?” he said, Ms. Li recalled in the interview. “Why can’t I smoke?”
那个人当即开始抗拒。“你管啊？怎么不能吸烟了？”李女士在采访中回忆他说。
As the man started beating her, Ms. Li tried to fight back, throwing her purse at the man’s face. But he continued to attack her until they reached the ninth floor, when he stepped out of the elevator. Ms. Li ran after him, trying to take his photo.
那人开始打她时，李女士试图反击，用自己的包砸对方的脸。但他继续攻击她，直到电梯到了九楼，他走出了出去。李女士追上去，试图拍下他的照片。
“I’ve never met someone so savage,” Ms. Li said in the television interview. “He is a thug without humanity.”
“从我生下来到现在，没遇到这么猖狂的、简直不是人的暴徒，”李女士在接受电视采访时说。
The man, who is believed to be in his 30s, remains at large, according to the authorities.
当局称这名男子年龄据估计为30岁，目前仍然在逃。