Sometimes cultural shifts rumble at a glacial pace. Sometimes they gather momentum so quickly that our language can only surge ahead in an effort to catch up. Think selfie, or vape, or normcore.
有时，文化变迁像冰川运动一样缓慢而低沉。有时，它突然发力，语言只能迎头赶上。例如自拍(selfie)、吸电子烟(vape)或普通核(normcore)。
Next up may be Mx. (pronounced mix), a gender-neutral alternative to Ms. and Mr.
下一个词可能是Mx.（它的发音是mix），它是女士(Ms.)和先生(Mr.)之外的一个中性尊称。
Online discussion of Mx. grew clamorous in the last month after an array of media outlets reported with more excitement than hard facts that editors of the prestigious Oxford English Dictionary had announced its consideration to add the Mx. title.
上个月，享有声望的《牛津英语词典》(Oxford English Dictionary)宣布考虑收录Mx.。媒体纷纷报道此事，更多是表达兴奋之情，而非陈述事实。之后，网上关于Mx.的讨论更加热烈。
Like so many pebbles of cultural news that ripple across the Internet, that one was only sort of accurate. The actual story is a bit less dramatic: A representative of the Oxford University Press, which publishes a range of periodicals, including the OED, was contacted by someone asking whether Mx. might be added to the mix. The answer was yes, it is being considered by one of the publisher’s online lexicons, OxfordDictionaries.com.
就像很多曾在网上“一石激起千层浪”的文化新闻一样，这条新闻的准确性也有待商榷。真实的故事没那么激动人心：某人跟牛津大学出版社(Oxford University Press)的一位代表联系，询问是否可能将Mx.加入Mix的意项中。答复是有可能，该出版社的其中一个在线词典OxfordDictionaries.com正在考虑收录此词。牛津大学出版社有一系列学术出版物，包括《牛津英语词典》(OED)。
But the fervor with which the cultural discussion grew underscored perhaps a greater truth: Swaths of Americans are comfortable with new considerations of gender and of the importance (or lack thereof) of identifying a specific gender, and they would welcome new words to help communicate in a new world.
不过，这次文化讨论的热烈程度也许反映出更宏大的情况：很多美国人愿意重新思考性别以及说明（或隐藏）具体性别的重要性，他们欢迎出现新词汇来帮助新时代的交流。
The language issue was amplified in the past week by the appearance of Caitlyn Jenner on the cover of Vanity Fair and the attendant confusion surrounding which name and pronoun should be used.
在过去一周里，这个语言问题继续升温。因为凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)亮相《名利场》(Vanity Fair)封面引发了一个困惑：应该使用此人的哪个名字以及哪种称呼。
The chatter about Mx. and its indication of mainstream acceptance is a welcome, if overdue, development for some. Justin Vivian Bond, a singer, songwriter and performance artist, began to use Mx. in self-reference in 2011. “It sounded like an obvious description of what I was: a mix of genders,” the artist said.
对某些人来说，关于Mx.的讨论以及它所代表的主流认同是一种可喜的（如果算不上滞后的）发展。例如，2011年，歌手、歌曲作家兼表演艺术家贾斯廷·维维安·邦德(Justin Vivian Bond)开始自称Mx.。“它显然描述了我的真实情况：两性混合体，”这位艺术家说。
The honorific has already made headway in Britain. About a year ago, the Royal Bank of Scotland, for instance, began to instruct its employees to offer customers the option of selecting Mx. when filling out paperwork at local branch offices. The move was made, said Marjorie Strachan, the head of inclusion for the bank, to respond to requests made by bank employees and customers. The L.G.B.T. community applauded the policy, she said, as did those who simply do not want to be addressed by a title that indicates gender.
英国已经开始使用这种尊称。例如，大约一年前，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)开始指示员工们为客户们在本地支行填写文件时提供Mx.这个选项。该银行负责包容性事务的负责人玛乔丽·斯特罗恩(Marjorie Strachan)说，这一举措是为了回应银行员工和客户们的要求。她说，L.G.B.T.团体以及那些不喜欢表明性别的人称赞这一政策。
“It’s not just about making the option available to people,” Ms. Strachan said. “It’s about educating our work force to make no assumptions about why one would use it. It’s no different than if someone wanted to use Ms. rather than Mrs.”
“这不只是让人们多一个选择，”斯特罗恩说，“而且要教育我们的员工不要胡乱猜测为什么客户想用这个称呼。这和有些人更喜欢被称作女士而非夫人是一样的。”
The adoption of the term in Britain has been easier because the idea of more than two genders is more accepted there than in the United States, so Mx. has more support there, said Kate Bornstein, the author of “Gender Outlaw: On Men, Women, and the Rest of Us.”
《性别反叛者：男人、女人和我们其他人》(Gender Outlaw: On Men, Women, and the Rest of Us)的作者凯特·伯恩斯坦(Kate Bornstein)说，这种称呼在英国更容易被采纳是因为那里比美国更能接受不只有两种性别这一观念，所以Mx.在那里得到了更多支持。
“The U.K. is ahead of the U.S. in terms of radical sexuality and gender, they’re far ahead,” the author said.
“在激进性行为和性别方面，英国走在美国前面，而且超前很多，”这位作者说。
An article this week in The New York Times referred to a speaker using the honorific Mx. However, Philip B. Corbett, a Times editor who oversees the newspaper’s style manual and usage rules, called that appearance of Mx. in The Times an exception. “I don’t think we’re likely to adopt Mx. in the near future,” he said. “It remains too unfamiliar to most people, and it’s not clear when or if it will emerge as a widely adopted term.”
本周《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的一篇文章在提到一位发言人时使用尊称Mx.。不过，本报负责监管字体指南和使用规则的编辑菲利普·B·科比特(Philip B. Corbett)说，Mx.出现在《纽约时报》上是个例外现象。“我认为，短期内我们不大可能采用Mx.，”他说，“大部分人仍不熟悉这个称呼，仍不明确将来它何时或能否被广泛使用。”
Linguistic experts say it is harder to change usage habits of words uttered frequently in speech, such as “she” and “he.” But a realignment in honorifics may be more quickly achieved because courtesy titles are less often spoken than written, like in the completion and mailing of government, health care and financial documents, as well as in newspapers and other media publications.
语言学家们说，改变口语中频繁出现的文字的使用习惯比较困难，比如“她”和“他”。但是，对尊称的调整也许能更快实现，因为尊称更多的是在书面语中使用，例如在填写和邮寄政府、医疗和金融文件时以及在报纸和其他媒体出版物中。
Katherine C. Martin, the head of United States dictionaries for the Oxford University Press, said that she and her colleagues were surprised by the huge, mostly positive reaction to online reports regarding the incorporation of the title. She said Mx. was on the “new-words watch list” for OxfordDictionaries.com.
牛津大学出版社的美国词典负责人凯瑟琳·C·马丁(Katherine C. Martin)说，人们对这个称呼可能被收录的网络报道反响很大，而且大多是正面的，这让她和同事们感到惊讶。她说，Mx.在OxfordDictionaries.com的“新词观察列表”中。
The first citation of Mx. found by Ms. Martin’s team dates to 1977, in a publication called The Single Parent. In the midst of the Ms. era, an article in it wondered whether a courtesy title that masks gender might help ameliorate any bias against single parents. “On second thought, maybe both sexes should be called Mx.,” the article said. “That would solve the gender problem entirely.”
马丁团队找到的最早提到Mx.的文章发表于1977年，名为《单身父母》(The Single Parent)。在女士称呼盛行的年代，那篇文章在思考，一个模糊性别的尊称是否可能帮助减轻人们对单身父母的偏见。“细想一下，也许两性都应该被称为Mx.，”那篇文章称，“这样就能彻底解决性别问题。”
Mx.’s next notable appearance, Ms. Martin said, came in the early 1980s, when some people engaged in nascent forms of digital communication and did not know one another’s gender. In the last decade, she added, it popped up regarding people who chose not to identify with either gender or were in transition.
马丁说，Mx.再次明显出现是在20世纪80年代初，当时有些人开始尝试进行数字交流，不知道彼此的性别。她补充说，在过去十年里，这个词突然出现，用以称呼那些认为自己不属于任何一种性别或处于变性过程中的人。
Alice H. Eagly, a professor of psychology at Northwestern University, questioned whether the use of Mx. is a good idea because it could signal (accurately or not) that someone identifies as neither male nor female, strictly speaking, or is in transition.
美国西北大学(Northwestern University)的心理学教授爱丽丝·H·伊格利(Alice H. Eagly)怀疑，使用Mx.并不是个好主意，因为它能表明（不管准确与否），严格说来，某人既不认为自己是男人也不认为自己是女人，或者正在变性过程中。
One reason the culture adopted the Ms. courtesy title, she said, was to avoid employment discrimination against married women, she said. The goal was to obscure personal details, not to highlight them.
她说，我们的文化接受“女士”这种尊称是为了避免对已婚女性的就业歧视。目的是为了隐藏而非突显个人信息的细节。
“I can sympathize with the desire to not want to declare one gender or another, but using this new category on job applications and such would make me worry,” Professor Eagly said. “Really, we should just do away with all of these titles. That would be more progressive.”
“我能理解不想表明性别的愿望，但是在工作申请等方面采用这个新称呼让我担忧，”伊格利教授说，“我们真的应该废除所有这些称呼。那样更进步。”