SHENZHEN, China —Yu Baiwei darted across the red line, under the arena’s bright lights, and winged a long wrist shot toward the opposing goal.
中国深圳——在赛场明亮的灯光下，于柏巍冲过红线，朝对方球门打出一记抖腕远射。
When the puck sneaked past a Toronto Furies goaltender, many of the 1,850 fans at the Shenzhen Universiade Sports Center celebrated to the pulse of a Chinese pop song. Nearly 14,000 others were watching online, and the moment went viral on Chinese social media.
当冰球从多伦多怒火队(Toronto Furies)的守门员旁边溜过时，深圳大运体育中心1850名球迷中的很多人开始跟着一首中文流行歌曲的节奏庆祝起来。网上还有近1.4万名观众。这一刻在中国社交媒体上疯传。
Yu’s Nov. 19 game-winner — the first goal by a Chinese national in the history of the Canadian Women’s Hockey League — came during a weekend of back-to-back victories for Kunlun Red Star, one of two new professional women’s ice hockey teams in Shenzhen, a subtropical Chinese megacity. It may be the first of many milestones for Chinese athletes in women’s hockey, which has long been dominated by Canada and the United States.
于柏巍在11月19日打出的这个制胜球，是中国球员在加拿大女子冰球联盟（Canadian Women’s Hockey League，简称CWHL）史上的第一个进球。昆仑鸿星在那个周末取得连胜战绩。该队是地处亚热带的中国大城市深圳的两支职业女子冰球队之一。这也许将是中国运动员在长期被加拿大和美国统治的女子冰球运动中取得的诸多里程碑成就的第一个。
“It was amazing,” said Yu, 29, who is also the captain of China’s national team. “I was very proud of myself because I’m Chinese, and the first goal is very important.”
“我很开心自己这重要的一球，”29岁的于柏巍说。她也是中国国家队的队长。“我很骄傲，很自豪自己是一名中国女冰球手。”
Veterans of women’s hockey in North America say the C.W.H.L.’s foray into China is a smart way to enhance the profile of the sport and tap a potentially enormous new market.
北美女子冰球运动的资深人士说，CWHL进入中国是聪明之举，可以提升这项运动的知名度，并开发一个有巨大潜力的新市场。
So far, the teams are doing more than that — they are winning. Kunlun Red Star is 7-4 in the seven-team league, and its sister team, the Vanke Rays, is 8-1.
迄今为止，这些队伍的表现不仅限于此。它们在不断取胜。在总共七支队伍的该联盟里，昆仑鸿星目前的成绩是7胜4负，其姐妹队万科阳光是8胜1负。
The success of the two Shenzhen teams, whose rosters include a few star imports and many of China’s top Olympic prospects, suggests that the country’s main hockey goal — medaling at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics — may not be unrealistic.
深圳这两支队伍的成功表明，中国在冰球项目上的主要目标，即在2022年的北京冬奥会上夺取奖牌，也许并非不现实。两队的成员包括一些引进的明星球员，以及中国很多有望参加奥运会的顶级球员。
“I wouldn’t put it out of the realm of possibility,” said Cara Morey, the coach of the Princeton University women’s team, which defeated China, 3-0, in an October exhibition game.
 “我不会觉得这是完全不可能的，”普林斯顿大学女子队教练卡拉·莫里(Cara Morey)说。在10月的一场表演赛上，该队以3比0的比分打败中国。
Sweden and Finland, the next tier of hockey powers behind the United States and Canada, should pay attention, Morey added, because “China is taking this very seriously.”
莫里接着说，位列美国和加拿大之后的第二梯队瑞典和芬兰应该注意，因为“中国非常重视这件事”。
Kunlun Red Star was founded last year by Billy Ngok, the founder of China Environmental Energy Holdings, an energy trading firm based in Hong Kong. He said the club’s seven teams include two under-18 squads and a professional men’s team in Beijing that competes in the Kontinental Hockey League, which is based in Russia but includes teams in Belarus, China, Finland, Kazakhstan, Latvia and Slovakia.
昆仑鸿星是总部设在香港的能源交易公司中国环保能源控股有限公司创始人岳欣禹(Billy Ngok)去年成立的。他说俱乐部有7支球队，包括两支球员年龄在18岁以下的球队和北京的一支男子职业球队。后者加入了总部设在俄罗斯，但球队分布在白俄罗斯、中国、芬兰、哈萨克斯坦、拉脱维亚和斯洛伐克的大陆冰球联赛(Kontinental Hockey League)。
Brenda Andress, the C.W.H.L. commissioner, said that the Chinese expansion teams were Kunlun’s idea and that she saw them as a vehicle for growing the game and creating employment for women. (The N.H.L. also sees China as a ripe market and held preseason games in Shanghai and Beijing last September.)
CWHL主席布伦达·安德烈斯(Brenda Andress)说，纳入中国球队是昆仑的主意，在她看来，这有助于发展这项运动并为女性创造就业。（国家冰球联盟[National Hockey League，简称NHL]也认为中国是一个成熟的市场，9月在上海和北京举办了季前赛。）
This season, the 11-year-old C.W.H.L. began paying players annual stipends of $2,000 to $10,000 based on a $100,000-per-team budget. Most of the players still work side jobs.
本赛季，成立11年的CWHL开始按照每支球队一年10万美元的预算，给球员发放2000到10000美元的年薪。大部分球员依然从事兼职。
The foreign players in Shenzhen also are paid as “hockey ambassadors,” meaning they do not work other jobs and must devote significant time to promoting the sport in China and mentoring their Chinese teammates.
深圳的外籍球员也以“冰球大使”的身份获取报酬。这意味着他们不做其他工作，必须投入大量时间在中国宣传这项运动，并指导他们的中国队友。
Ngok confirmed a recent report in China’s state-controlled news media that members of the men’s and women’s national hockey teams would earn monthly salaries of up to about 40,000 Yuan, or $6,047.
岳欣禹证实了中国官方新闻媒体最近刊登的一篇报道。该报道称，中国国家男子和女子冰球队队员的月薪最高可达到大约4万元。
He said that the Chinese government had appointed Kunlun Red Star to manage the Olympic hockey program and that he would invest an annual $60 million in the seven teams over five years. That includes the full cost, he said, of having the C.W.H.L.’s five North American teams fly to Shenzhen once a season for a series of games, as Markham Thunder and the Toronto Furies did last month.
他说，中国政府指定昆仑鸿星管理奥林匹克冰球项目，在接下来的五年里，他每年会在七支队伍上投资6000万美元。他说，这包括让CWHL的五支北美球队每个赛季飞去深圳一次参加一系列比赛的全部费用。万锦雷霆队(Markham Thunder)和多伦多怒火队上月就是这么做的。
The Chinese teams go to North America twice to play 13 road games before ending the regular season in March with two games against each other in Marlborough, Mass.
中国球队会在常规赛3月结束之前去北美两次，参加13场客场比赛，再在马萨诸塞州马尔伯勒互相打两场比赛。
“We have a dream, a Chinese dream, as our president says, for the women’s hockey team to win a medal in 2022,” Ngok said. He chose Shenzhen as a home base, he added, partly to support a government plan to develop winter sports in nontraditional regions.
“我们有一个梦想，就像我们的总书记说的，中国梦，希望女子冰球队能在2022年赢下奖牌，”岳欣禹说。他接着表示，选择深圳作为基地，在一定程度上是为了支持政府在非传统地区发展冬季体育运动的计划。
The Chinese women’s team lost to the United States, 12-0, at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics and did not qualify for the 2014 or 2018 Games. But it finished fourth at the 1998 Nagano Olympics, Ngok noted, and its future stars will have five years to train at the sport’s highest level.
中国女队在2010年的温哥华奥运会上以0比12的比分败给美国队，之后的2014年和2018年的奥运会均未获得参赛资格。但岳欣禹指出，中国女子冰球队在1998年的长野奥运会上取得了第四名的成绩，它未来的明星还有五年的时间，可以按照这项运动的最高水准训练。
One of his early moves was hiring Digit Murphy, who had led Brown University and the C.W.H.L.’s Boston Blades, as the head coach of Kunlun Red Star and the Chinese women’s national team.
他的早期举措之一是聘请迪吉特·墨菲(Digit Murphy)担任昆仑鸿星和中国国家女子冰球队的主教练。墨菲担任过布朗大学队(Brown University)和CWHL的波士顿刀锋队(Boston Blades)的教练。
Murphy later recruited Rob Morgan, a former associate head coach at Yale University, to assist her with the national team and lead the Vanke Rays. That team is named after a sponsor, the Shenzhen-based China Vanke Group, the country’s largest property developer, but is under the Kunlun corporate umbrella.
后来，墨菲招募到了曾任耶鲁大学队(Yale University)助理主教练的罗布·摩根(Rob Morgan)协助她训练国家队和管理万科阳光队。万科阳光队以一家赞助商的名字命名，即总部设在深圳的中国最大房地产开发商万科集团，但仍属于昆仑企业旗下。
“I’ve died and gone to heaven, and I live in China,” said Murphy, who lives in a hotel that overlooks the Shenzhen arena and hosts visiting C.W.H.L. teams.
“我已经死了，上了天堂，我活在中国，”墨菲说。她住在一个可以俯瞰深圳赛场的酒店里，来访的CWHL球队也会住在这里。
She said the resources that the Chinese program was receiving were probably on par with what the United States women’s hockey team receives in an Olympic year.
她表示，中国的这个项目获得的资源很可能与美国女子冰球队在奥运年获得的资源相当。
Many of the players in Shenzhen are from Harbin and Qiqihar, the two northern cities that produce virtually all of China’s elite women’s hockey players, said Xin Fang, a Vanke Rays forward from Harbin. (On Dec. 8, Kunlun and Vanke will meet in her hometown for their first regular-season matchup.)
来自哈尔滨的万科阳光队前锋房鑫（音）表示，深圳的很多球员都来自哈尔滨和齐齐哈尔，中国的顶尖女子冰球运动员几乎都来自这两座北方城市（12月8日，昆仑鸿星队和万科阳光队将在她的家乡开始第一个常规赛季的较量）。
Others are North American players of Chinese descent who Ngok said may eventually become Chinese citizens and play on the Olympic team.
还有一些球员则是华裔北美人。岳欣禹表示，她们可能最终会成为中国公民，作为中国队球员参加奥运会。
“The opportunity to help an entire nation change the face of hockey is something you just don’t pass up,” said Melanie Jue, a Kunlun defender, who grew up in Vancouver, British Columbia, and has family in Hong Kong, which borders Shenzhen.
“帮助整个国家改变冰球运动的面貌，这个机会是不能错过的，”在不列颠哥伦比亚省温哥华市长大的昆仑鸿星队后卫梅兰妮·朱(Melanie Jue)说。她的一些家人住在与深圳毗邻的香港。
A few other players are recent graduates of top college programs, like Clarkson’s Cayley Mercer, or veteran stars like the Finnish goalie Noora Raty and the American forward Kelli Stack.
还有一些球员则是刚从一些顶级大学毕业的校队成员，比如克拉克森大学(Clarkson)的凯莱·默瑟(Cayley Mercer)，或者是资深球星，比如芬兰守门员诺拉·拉蒂(Noora Raty)和美国前锋凯尔丽·斯塔克(Kelli Stack)。
“It’s awesome to finally be appreciated and taken care of better than we have been in North America,” Stack, 29, a two-time Olympic silver medalist and the Kunlun team’s oldest player, said after scoring the second goal in the team’s recent 2-0 victory over the Toronto Furies.
“最终能得到重视，获得比在北美更好的待遇，这样的感觉真是太好了，”29岁的斯塔克在前不久与多伦多怒火队的比赛中打入第二个球后说。她们最终以2:0赢得了那场比赛。她曾两次获得奥运会银牌，是昆仑鸿星队年纪最大的球员。
Two days later, the Kunlun and Vanke teams were back at the Shenzhen Universiade Sports Centre for a morning of practices and weight lifting.
两天后，昆仑鸿星队和万科阳光队回到深圳大运体育中心，进行晨练和举重练习。
When Kunlun Red Star took the ice, Murphy, in a black baseball hat and a black jumpsuit, began coaxing and cajoling her players in a booming voice, and rapping her stick on the ice for emphasis.
当昆仑鸿星队站在冰面上时，戴着黑色棒球帽、身穿黑色连体服的墨菲开始用低沉响亮的嗓音指导球员们，用球杆敲击冰面，以示强调。
“Everything you’re doing is too individual,” she said between drills, adding an expletive. “We’re still not at our best yet.”
“你们干什么都只顾着自己，”她在训练间歇说，还加了一句脏话。“我们还没有达到最佳状态。”
Several players said that Murphy’s energy was infectious and that there was a healthy chemistry between the Chinese and foreign players on both teams.
几名球员表示，墨菲的活力很有感染力，两支球队的中外球员之间存在着有益的化学反应。
Translation was sometimes a challenge — there is no obvious Mandarin term for “back check,” for example — but not an insurmountable one, they said.
他们表示，有时翻译会是一个问题，例如，中文中没有跟“back check”（返回本方球门区防守）完全对应的术语，但那不是不可逾越的障碍。
“We speak hockey,” Murphy said after the practice, as she shuttled between meetings, trailed by a phalanx of Chinese players.
“我们用冰球说话，”墨菲在训练结束后参加各种会议的间隙说，她的身后跟着一群中国球员。
But her Chinese vocabulary already includes a few stock phrases, she said, such as “It’s a new day.”
不过她说，她的中文词汇中已经包含了一些常用语，比如：“今天是新的一天”。
Also this: “China wins.”
还有一句：“中国队必胜。”