HONG KONG — Ticket scalpers can be a headache in China, raising the prices of concerts, train trips and more. But no scalpers are more detested than those selling tickets for hospital visits. A video of a woman in Beijing denouncing the practice circulated widely this week, as many others shared their own experiences.
香港——票贩子有时候很让中国人头疼，他们抬高了演唱会门票、火车票等等的票价。但是，最让人深恶痛绝的是贩卖医院挂号单的号贩子。本周，北京一名女子谴责这种做法的视频广为流传，很多人也讲述了自己的遭遇。
Most hospitals require patients to take tickets to determine the order in which they are seen for nonemergency treatment. Often the tickets are sold for a fee. The goal is to prevent disorder and cutting in line when many people are seeking medical care.
如果不是急诊，多数医院都要求病人先交费挂号，以此来安排就诊顺序。这样做的目的是防止在看病人数比较多的时候出现混乱和插队现象。
But the practice lends itself to abuses, particularly when scalpers buy tickets and sell them for much higher prices. The problems are made worse by the large numbers of people from outlying areas who seek treatment in major cities, either because their local hospitals lack services or they do not trust the quality of care.
但这种做法本身很容易被人利用，特别是号贩子会买下挂号单，然后以高得多的价格转手。一些边远地区的病人觉得当地医院缺乏资源，或者不信任当地的医疗质量，前往大城市求医，也让这个问题变得更加严重。
The video of the woman was recorded last week by a patient waiting in line at Guang’anmen Hospital in central Beijing. The woman in the clip said a scalper had inflated the price of a ticket to 4,500 renminbi, or nearly $700, from 300 renminbi.
这段视频是上周在北京市中心广安门医院排队等候的一个病人录制的。视频中，一个女子表示，票贩子把号炒到了4500元人民币。
“My God, for average people to see a doctor takes so much money, so much energy,” she shouted.
“一个300块钱的号他们朝我要4500，老百姓看个病挂个号这么费劲呢，”她吼道。
Guang’anmen denied that it condoned the reselling of tickets. It released a statement on Tuesday saying that a preliminary investigation had found no evidence that its security guards were involved in reselling tickets.
广安门医院否认纵容挂号倒卖行为。周二该医院发布声明，说初步调查没有发现任何证据表明其保安人员参与倒卖门票。
The woman was reported to have been waiting in line so that her mother could see a prominent doctor of internal medicine. The hospital said it had made arrangements for the mother to see another specialist so as “not to affect the normal medical order and treatment of other patients.”
据称这名女子排队挂号是想让母亲看一位著名的内科医生。院方表示，“为不影响正常医疗秩序和其他患者就诊，我院工作人员即为其安排其他专家处就医。”
Chinese state television broadcast a clip of the woman’s complaint on Tuesday, and many people commented online that they had had similar experiences.
中国官方电视台周二播放了这位女子抱怨的片段，很多人在网上评论说，他们也有过类似的遭遇。
“Of course these scalpers are awful, but it’s the system that creates them,” one person from the northeastern city of Tianjin wrote in a social media post on Weibo.
“黄牛当然坏，但是体制造就了他们，”一个来自东北部城市天津的网友在社交媒体新浪微博上写道。
A quick search of the social media platform showed several accounts offering tickets for Guang’anmen and other hospitals in Beijing.
在这个社交媒体平台上稍微搜索一下，就可以看到好几个帐号在出售广安门医院和北京其他医院的挂号单。
The woman who complained in the video later received harassing calls from scalpers and feared she might not be able to take her mother back to the hospital, a friend of hers told Beijing Youth Daily.
在视频中抱怨的女子后来接到了号贩子的骚扰电话，她的一个朋友告诉《北京青年报》，她担心可能无法再让母亲去广安门医院看病。
The woman herself declined to speak about the incident. “I don’t want to share too much about this,” she told the newspaper.
这名女子本人拒绝谈论此事。“这件事我不想说太多，”她告诉记者。
She said she rented a basement room near the hospital for 130 renminbi a day. She had to carry her mother on her back to visit the hospital.
她表示，她们租住在医院附近的地下室，每天房费130元人民币。她必须背着母亲去医院。
“My mother is still ill and paralyzed in bed,” she said. “I need to take care of her and only wish to get her properly treated. I don’t want that much attention.”
“妈妈还在生病，瘫痪在床，”她说。“我要照顾她，希望的只是她能得到妥善治疗。我不想要那么多的关注。”