WASHINGTON —One has an office down the hall from the president in the White House; the other just moved into an office a floor up. One recently visited war-torn Iraq as the president’s emissary; the other will soon head to Berlin at the invitation of Germany’s chancellor.
华盛顿——一个已经在白宫拥有一间办公室，从总统办公室沿着过道走过去便是；另一个刚刚搬进楼上的房间。一个最近以总统特使的身份出访了饱受战火蹂躏的伊拉克；另一个很快就要应德国总理的邀请前往柏林。
Both have seats at the table at any meeting they choose to attend, join lunches with foreign leaders and enjoy “walk-in privileges” to the Oval Office. And with the marginalization of Stephen K. Bannon, Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump have emerged as President Donald Trump’s most important advisers, at least for now.
两人都可以参加他们想要参加的任何会议，都可以和外国领导人共进午餐，都可以随意走进椭圆形办公室。此外，随着史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的边缘化，贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)和伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)已经成为唐纳德·特朗普总统最重要的顾问，至少目前是如此。
More openly than any president before him, Trump is running his West Wing like a family business, and as he has soured on Bannon, his combative chief strategist, he has turned to his daughter and son-in-law. Their ascendance has some conservative supporters fretting about the rising influence of the urbane young New Yorkers, as some moderates and liberals swallow concerns about nepotism in the hope that the couple will temper the temperamental president.
特朗普正把白宫西翼当成家族企业来运营，而且比此前任何一位总统都更明目张胆。随着对好斗的首席战略师班农感到失望，他开始求助于自己的女儿和女婿。这两位温文尔雅的年轻纽约客的崛起，让一些保守派支持者忧心于他们俩日益增长的影响力；与此同时，一些温和派和自由派人士压抑住对裙带关系的担忧，希望这对夫妻能让喜怒无常的总统受到约束。
Still, for all the talk of a velvet coup against Bannon, Kushner and Ivanka Trump have achieved few concrete victories. And several administration officials and people close to the family said the couple’s move against Bannon was motivated less by interest in shaping any particular policy than by addressing what they view as an embarrassing string of failures that may damage the Trump family brand.
不过，虽然班农遭遇天鹅绒政变的说法不绝于耳，但贾里德和伊万卡·特朗普基本没取得什么切实的胜利。此外，若干政府官员以及接近特朗普家族的人士表示，促使这对夫妇对班农采取行动的，与其说是塑造任何特定政策的兴趣，不如说是应对在他们看来有可能损害特朗普家族品牌的一连串尴尬失败的需要。
“If you think of it as a classic business model, Trump likes to invest in winners because they make more money, and Jared has been pretty consistently winning,” said former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, an ally of Donald Trump. “You’re always on a what’s-your-quarterly-report kind of relationship with Trump.”
“可以将其视为一种经典的商业模式：特朗普喜欢投资于赢家，因为他们能赚更多钱，而贾里德基本上一向都是赢家，”众议院前议长、唐纳德·特朗普的盟友纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)说。“你和特朗普的关系，永远都建立在季报怎么样之类的基础上。”
Neither Kushner nor Ivanka Trump has government experience. Kushner, 36, managed the real estate empire he inherited from his family and bought the New York Observer as a side project. Trump, 35, ran a fashion brand that appealed to young, urban female consumers likely to align themselves with her father’s opponents.
库什纳和伊万卡·特朗普都没有政府工作经验。现年36岁的库什纳以前掌管着继承自父辈的房地产王国，并买下《纽约观察家》(New York Observer)，作为副业来经营。现年35岁的伊万卡·特朗普，以前经营着一个面向年轻都市女性消费者的时尚品牌——那些人很有可能和她父亲的对手站在一边。
But the quarterly report on Kushner shows he has been in merger-and-acquisition mode. One after another, he has expanded his portfolio into a far-ranging set of issues, including Middle East peace, the opioid epidemic, relations with China and Mexico and reorganizing the federal government from top to bottom. “Everything runs through me,” he told corporate executives during the transition.
但关于库什纳的季报显示，他这段时间处于并购模式中。一个接着一个，他把自己的投资组合拓展成了一系列的广泛议题，其中包括中东和平、毒品泛滥、与中国以及墨西哥的关系，还有对联邦政府自上而下的重组。“所有的事情都要通过我，”他在过渡期间这样告诉一些企业高管。
Lately, he has pushed to overhaul the criminal justice system, a goal that Donald Trump embraced as a candidate near the end of the campaign when he tried to siphon black voters away from Hillary Clinton. But Kushner is running into opposition from Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who favors toughening, not relaxing, mandatory minimum sentences.
最近，他又开始推动对刑事司法制度进行改革——竞选接近尾声的时候，还是候选人的特朗普为了把黑人选民从希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的阵营拉到自己这边，提出了这一目标。但库什纳目前正和司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)唱对台戏，后者支持收紧而非放松关于强制性最低量刑的规定。
Some colleagues, including Bannon and Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, regard Kushner’s breathtaking list of assignments with comic contempt, according to a dozen Trump associates who insisted on anonymity to discuss Kushner and Ivanka Trump. After Kushner’s trip to Iraq, White House aides referred to him as the “secretary of state.”
按照特朗普身边的十几个人的说法，包括班农和白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)在内，库什纳的一些同事对他那令人惊叹的任务清单极为蔑视。这些助手坚持要求匿名讨论关于库什纳和伊万卡·特朗普的话题。库什纳出访伊拉克以后，白宫的助手们曾称他为“国务卿”。
But they are warier of Ivanka Trump, who only recently arrived in the West Wing and until now has been a more sporadic player than her ambitious husband. Initially resistant to a formal role in the administration, Trump took an office and a government position — albeit, like her husband, without accepting a salary — out of concern over the troubles of her father’s first couple of months in office.
但他们对最近才进入西翼的伊万卡·特朗普更为警惕，比起她那雄心勃勃的丈夫，她到目前为止只是偶尔发挥一下作用。伊万卡·特朗普起初并不愿意正式成为政府雇员，但出于对父亲在上台之初的几个月遭遇的麻烦的担忧，她接受了一间办公室和一个政府职务——不过像她丈夫一样不要薪水。
According to associates, she views her role partly as guardian of the family reputation and has fretted during and since the campaign about the long-term damage to the family business’s image by her father’s political career.
按照助手们的说法，她在某种程度上把自己视为家族声誉的捍卫者，在选举期间和大选结束后一直担心她父亲的政治生涯从长远来看会损害家族企业的形象。
But the supposed backstage liberal counterrevolution that critics fear has yielded modest results. Last week, the president signed legislation allowing states to deny federal funding to women’s health care providers offering abortion services, like Planned Parenthood. Ivanka Trump and Kushner were skiing in Canada, just as they were on the slopes in Aspen during the collapse of the health care effort.
但让批评人士担心的所谓幕后的自由主义“反革命”运动，并未掀起太大波澜。上周，总统签署法案，允许各州切断对计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)等提供堕胎服务的女性医疗服务机构的联邦拨款。当时，伊万卡·特朗普和库什纳正在加拿大滑雪，就如修改医保法案的努力付诸东流的时候，他们正在阿斯彭山区度假。
“I think there are multiple ways to have your voice heard,” Ivanka Trump recently told CBS News. “In some cases, it’s through protest and it’s through going on the nightly news and talking about or denouncing every issue on which you disagree with. Other times it is quietly and directly and candidly.
“我认为，让你的声音被听到的方法有很多种，”伊万卡·特朗普最近告诉CBS新闻频道(CBS News)。“有些时候，你可以参加抗议活动，也可以上晚间新闻谈论或抨击你不赞成的所有议题。另外一些时候，你可以用安静、直接而又坦率的方法做到这一点。”
“So where I disagree with my father, he knows it,” she added. “And I express myself with total candor. Where I agree, I fully lean in and support the agenda and — and hope — that I can be an asset to him and — and make a positive impact. But I respect the fact that he always listens. It’s how he was in business. It’s how he is as president.
“因此，当我不赞成父亲的做法时，他是知道的，”她继续说道。“我会十分坦率地表达自己的观点。当我赞成某项议程时，我会冲上前去予以支持，希望自己能帮得上他的忙，产生积极影响。但我尊重这样一个事实：他一直愿意倾听意见。他以前在商场上是如此。现在当了总统也是如此。”
Carl Sferrazza Anthony, a historian at the National First Ladies’ Library, said Ivanka Trump can play a vital role for her father and praised her for being transparent about taking the assignment rather than operating behind the scenes, predicting that her participation “will prove the single greatest success of the first 100 days of her father’s presidency.”
国立第一夫人图书馆(National First Ladies)的历史学家卡尔·斯费拉扎·安东尼(Carl Sferrazza Anthony)说伊万卡·特朗普可以扮演一个对她父亲而言至关重要的角色，还称赞她在光明正大地这样做着，而非在幕后行事。安东尼预言，“事实将证明”，她的加入“是他父亲执政前一百天的最大成功”。
But Chris Whipple, author of “The Gatekeepers,” a history of White House chiefs of staff, said relatives in the West Wing can confuse the chain of command. “It can be disastrous if they exert their influence at the expense of the chief of staff,” he said.
但以《守门人》(The Gatekeepers)一书讲述关于白宫幕僚长的历史的克里斯·惠普尔(Chris Whipple)说，在西翼工作的总统亲属会扰乱指挥链条。“如果他们在发挥影响力的同时损害了幕僚长的权威，结果可能是灾难性的。”
At the center of the Trump presidency is a paradox: Even allies acknowledge Trump is impulsive, indifferent to preparation and prone to embracing the last advice offered. He needs a strong hand to guide him, but insists on appearing in firm command, so any aide perceived as pulling strings can face his wrath sooner or later. It was Trump, not his children, who pushed Bannon to the margins, motivated less by ideology than by dissatisfaction with recent failures and his perception that his chief strategist was running an off-the-books operation to aggrandize himself at Trump’s expense.
特朗普的总统任期中有一个极为重要的矛盾之处：就连助手们也承认，特朗普为人冲动，不重视准备工作，易于接受被提交给他的最后一个建议。他需要有一只强有力的手对其加以引导，但却坚持以说一不二的形象示人，因此他如果觉得哪个助手在操纵自己，迟早会让对方碰一鼻子灰。把班农推向边缘的其实是特朗普，而非他的子女。其动因与其说是意识形态，不如说是特朗普对近来的一系列失败感到不满，而且觉得这名首席战略师为了巩固自身的地位而搞小动作，却让他这个总统付出了代价。
Trump remains annoyed by a February cover of Time magazine labeling Bannon “The Great Manipulator,” telling one visitor this month, “That doesn’t just happen” — a favored Trump expression for anger at subordinates who tend to their interests ahead of his.
《时代》(Time)杂志2月份的封面给班农贴上了“伟大操纵者”的标签，对此一直耿耿于怀的特朗普在本月告诉一名到访者，“不该发生这种事”——他喜欢以此表达对那些倾向于把自身利益摆在他的利益前面的下属的愤怒。
At the same time, the president and his family have closely monitored Bannon’s former website, Breitbart, which they regarded as a weapon in his war against White House rivals. Confronted about the site, Bannon told the president that it was operating beyond his control and against his wishes.
与此同时，总统及其家人一直密切关注着班农以前任职的布莱巴特新闻网(Breitbart)，他们曾视之为他用以打击白宫中的对手的武器。因为这家网站而受到质问时，班农告诉总统，网站的运作非他所能控制，也违反了他的意愿。
Ivanka Trump has never been close to Bannon, although she appreciated the ferocity of his work. She puts him in the category of colorful, rough-hewed characters her father collects, along with the likes of Roger Stone, a longtime Trump operative.
伊万卡·特朗普和班农之间的关系向来不算接近，尽管她以前颇为欣赏班农强悍的工作作风。她把班农归为他父亲网罗的形形色色的粗旷人物之一，同类型的人还有长期为特朗普工作的罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)。
In recent weeks, she has spoken bluntly about Bannon’sshortcomings to the president. She was especially incensed by articles she believed were planted by Bannon’s allies suggesting he, not her father, honed the populist economic message that helped sweep the Midwest. She made that point in the strongest terms to her father, who agreed, according to a family friend.
最近几周，她直言不讳地谈及了班农身上对总统不利的缺点。一些在她看来是由班农的盟友炮制的文章尤为令她愤怒，那些文章暗示，帮助拿下中西部的民粹主义经济主张，是由班农而非他父亲提炼出来的。特朗普家族的一个朋友称，她以最激烈的言辞向父亲表明了自己的看法，并得到了认同。
Donald Trump would prefer the situation with Bannon to stabilize, according to people familiar with his thinking, and to keep Bannon on board, albeit in a more circumscribed role, than see him become a populist critic outside the gates. Bannon intuitively understands the president’s connection to white working-class voters and his instinct to demolish political norms. And neither Ivanka Trump nor her husband has so far plunged into day-to-day government operations or logged the 18-hour days the indefatigable Bannon routinely works.
一些熟悉唐纳德·特朗普的想法的人表示，他更希望看到班农的情况趋于稳定，以便将他留下来——即使要对其加以更多限制——而非看到他成为大门之外的一名民粹主义批评者。班农对总统与白人工薪阶层选民之间的联系以及总统撕毁政治规则的本能有着出于直觉的了解。此外，不论是伊万卡·特朗普还是她丈夫都没像班农那样全身心地投入到政府日常运作中去，或者像他那样一天工作18个小时。
The expectation that Ivanka Trump will push her father to the left on social issues has been unhelpful, people close to her said. She shares his economically conservative view and did not enter the White House to be a social issues warrior, they said.
有人希望伊万卡·特朗普可以推动她父亲在社会议题方面向左移动，但接近她的人士说，抱有这种希望是在帮倒忙。他们说，她和她父亲一样，在经济议题上持保守态度，她进入白宫可不是为了充当一个社会议题斗士。
For his part, Kushner has succeeded in part because he has never tried “to explain what Jared wants,” Gingrich said. “He is very attuned to listening to Trump and trying to figure out what Trump needs, and what Trump is trying to get done.”
至于库什纳，他在某种程度上已经取得了成功，因为他从未试图“阐释贾里德想要什么”，金里奇说。“他非常善于倾听特朗普的意见，善于弄清特朗普需要什么以及正设法完成什么目标。”
Kushner has served as the president’s eyes and ears. “Jared is constantly reaching outside the Trump inner circle to get feedback,” said Kathy Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, on whose board he served. “That is really making an impression on people that there’s an opportunity to have input into what’s happening in the White House.”
库什纳一直充当着特朗普的耳目。“贾里德总是把触角伸到特朗普核心集团之外寻求反馈，”纽约市合作组织(Partnership for New York City)总裁凯瑟琳·怀尔德(Kathryn Wylde)说——库什纳曾是该组织的董事会成员。“这给人留下了的印象是：他们有机会就白宫里正在发生的事情提供意见。”
Kushner stays calm when others are frayed by Trump’s explosive temper. During the campaign, when the candidate was incensed by the performance of his aides, he reminded his father-in-law that four people could not be fired — himself and the three Trump siblings.
特朗普的暴躁脾气常常让其他人神经紧张，但库什纳总能保持平静。竞选期间，还是候选人的特朗普被助手们的表现惹恼时，库什纳提醒他说，只有四个人不能被解雇——他自己以及特朗普的三个子女。
Still, if Trump lives by any management dictum, it may be this: The only indispensable employee looks back from his mirror.
不过，如果特朗普在管理方面有任何座右铭，那或许是： 唯一一个不可替代的雇员就是镜子里直视着他的那个人。