BEIJING — In a crowded Chinese neighborhood, she suffered the loneliest of deaths.
北京——在中国一个拥挤的居民区，她孤零零地走向了死亡。
She was trapped and forgotten in a broken elevator of her apartment building for more than a month before her body was discovered last week. She had a hand pressed against the door, some accounts said.
她所住那栋楼的电梯坏了，她困在里面，被遗忘了一个多月。直到上周，她的遗体才被发现。一些报道称，她一只手抠在电梯门上。
But now this death in Xi’an — the northwestern city famed for its ancient entombed terra-cotta warriors — has stirred a nationwide roar of anger by people furious that lax building management that can turn trivial acts, like riding an elevator, into fatal traps, news reports and Internet accounts said on Monday.
现在，发生在以兵马俑而著称的西北城市西安的这起事件，引发了全国范围内的愤怒。周一当天的新闻报道和网络文章称，人们对物业管理松懈可能会让搭乘电梯这样的生活琐事变成致命陷阱感到气愤。
The woman, in her 40s, has been identified in news reports only by her surname, Wu. She lived alone on the 15th floor of the apartment building, mostly keeping to herself, the reports said, quoting neighbors.
新闻报道只透露这名40多岁的女子姓吴。报道援引邻居的话称，她独自住在那栋楼的15层，大部分时候是一个人。
But she has gained posthumous fame as a symbol of how lackadaisical residential management, a widespread complaint in Chinese cities, can become far worse than an inconvenience.
不过，作为物业管理松懈的后果可能远比生活不便严重的象征，她在死后迅速出名。物业管理不佳是中国城市普遍存在的一个问题。
Two repairmen turned off the power of the elevator on Jan. 30, after it malfunctioned, according to the reports, quoting police investigators and district officials. They shouted to check for anyone inside, heard no reply, but failed to follow rules and pry open the doors to make sure. They left the elevator unrepaired for more than 30 days. Ms. Wu’s body was found last Tuesday.
相关报道援引警方调查人员和高陵区官员的话称，1月30日，两名维修人员在电梯出现故障后切断了电源。他们向电梯轿厢喊话，询问是否有人在里面，未听到应答，但他们未按规定撬开电梯门进行确认。30多天时间里，电梯一直无人维修，直到上周二，吴女士的尸体被发现。
“What if the management staff had gone to look inside the elevator before shutting off the power? Would this tragedy have happened?” asked a newspaper published in the eastern province of Zhejiang. It was one of dozens of newspaper and Internet commentaries lamenting the accident.
“假如，在电梯停运的时候，管理部门工作人员在拉下电闸的时候，能够到电梯口去看看，还会发生悲剧吗？”浙江一家报纸发问。这只是数十篇悲叹这起事故的报纸和网络评论文章中的一篇。
“Unfortunately, in this society, there are too many what-ifs,” it said.
“遗憾的是，这个社会上没有太多的假如，”文章说。
Ms. Wu’s death in solitude came after two public deaths last year on faulty escalators in Chinese shopping malls, when unsuspecting passers-by were dragged underneath into their machinery. Those deaths, of a 4-year-old boy and a 31-year-old woman, were recorded on video monitors, and the footage ignited widespread anger that simple mechanical maintenance had been mishandled.
在吴女士孤零零地死去之前，中国去年还发生了两起公共场所电梯出故障致人死亡的事件。那两起事件都发生在商场，都是不知情者在搭乘扶梯时被卷了进去。两起事故的受害人分别是一名4岁的男孩和一名31岁的女子。视频监控记录了这两起事件的发生过程，画面引发了民众对简单的机械维护都存在问题的广泛愤怒。
In many Chinese cities, property developers hire maintenance companies to manage the fields of apartments that have sprung up in recent decades. Complaints are widespread, especially in poorer developments where maintenance companies keep outlays to a minimum. Residents of the development where Ms. Wu lived complained about broken lights, water and power cuts, and constant elevator breakdowns, the Beijing Youth Daily said.
在中国的很多城市，最近几十年住宅小区激增，房地产开发商的做法是聘请物业公司来管理这些小区。抱怨普遍存在，尤其是在较差的小区，物业公司把费用压到最少。《北京青年报》报道，与吴女士同住一个小区的居民抱怨，路灯不亮，水电常停，电梯经常出故障。
News reports have speculated that Ms. Wu starved to death. Fatal dehydration seems more likely.
新闻报道怀疑，吴女士是饿死的。不过脱水致死的可能性似乎更大。
But the police have said that they were still trying to determine precisely how and when she died and why her cries for help, if she made any, were unheeded, said the Huashang News, a news outlet based in Xi’an. Relatives came looking for her last month, the report said, but apparently neither they nor any neighbors linked her disappearance to the elevator stuck a few floors below her home.
不过，西安的新闻媒体华商网报道，警方称其仍在努力确定吴女士的死亡原因和死亡时间，以及如果她求救了，为什么没被听到。报道称，吴女士的家人上月去找过她，但他们和邻居似乎都没把她的失踪和卡在她家楼下几层的电梯联系在一起。
People from the elevator repair company and the maintenance firm in charge of the faulty elevator were detained by the police, the newspaper Beijing Morning Post said on Monday. It did not give their names.
《北京晨报》周一报道，电梯维修公司和小区物业公司的相关责任人已被警方拘留。文中未公开他们的姓名。
“The local police are investigating when and why she entered the elevator, and why the property management and residents all stated they were unaware,” said the report.
《北京青年报》报道，“至于她是何时、因何进入电梯内，物业方及居民均表示不知情，当地警方已经介入调查。”
While the elevator was out of use, people living in the apartment building used another, and they may not have heard any cries for help from Ms. Wu.
事发电梯停用期间，楼里的人用的是另外一部电梯，他们可能没有听到吴女士的呼救。
One neighbor said she recalled a muffled sound on the night the elevator failed, the Huashang News said.
华商网的报道称，一个邻居说她在电梯出故障的那天晚上听到了微弱的声音。
“I heard a strange sound from near the elevator, a thud-thud noise,” the neighbor said. “My daughter said the lift had broken down, and because it often did that, I didn’t pay attention.”
“我听见电梯附近有异响，咚咚的声音，”这名邻居说。“我女儿说是电梯出现故障了，因为电梯经常出故障，我就没有在意。”