SCIENCE has looked into some strange things over the centuries — reports of gargantuan sea monsters, purported images of Jesus, sightings of alien spaceships and so on. When I first heard of spontaneous orgasm, while researching a book on yoga, including its libidinal cousin, tantra, I figured it was more allegory than reality and in any event would prove beyond the reach of even the boldest investigators.
科学家们过去几个世纪着实研究了一些奇怪的东西――庞大的海怪、耶稣的长相、外星人的宇宙飞船等等。当我第一次见到“自发高潮”这个词时，我正在研读一本关于瑜伽以及密教哲学（和瑜伽类似，但跟情欲有关）的书，我猜想这个词包含更多象征意义，并非真实存在，而且无论如何，即使是最大胆的科学家也会对这个问题感到无从下手。
Well, I was wrong. It turns out science has tiptoed around the subject for more than a century and of late has made considerable progress in determining not only the neurophysiological basis of the phenomenon but also its prevalence. Men are mentioned occasionally. But sex researchers have found that the novel type of autoerotism shows up mainly in women.
好吧，我错了。事实上，科学家们一个多世纪以来一直在不声不响地研究相关课题，最近还取得了很大进展，他们不仅找到了这种现象的神经生理学原理，还证实了它的普遍性。在这项研究中，男性只是偶尔被提到。性学研究者发现，这种新奇的自体性行为主要存在于女性之中。
Ground zero for the research is Rutgers University, where scientists have repeatedly had female volunteers put their heads into giant machines and focus their attention on erotic fantasies — the scans reveal that the pleasure centers of their brains light up in ways indistinguishable from everyday orgasms. The lab atmosphere is no-nonsense, with plenty of lights and white coats and computer monitors.
罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)是这项研究的发起者，这所学校的研究人员不断地让女性志愿者把头部伸进巨大的机器，并专注于性幻想――扫描仪显示，她们大脑愉悦中枢的活跃情形与通常情况下的性高潮无异。实验室的氛围并不轻佻，有充足的光源、大量穿着白大褂的研究人员和电脑显示屏。
Subjects often thrash about so forcefully that obtaining clear images of their brains can be difficult.
实验者通常会非常剧烈的扭动，因此很难获得他们大脑的清晰的图像。
“Head movement is a huge issue,” Nan Wise, a doctoral candidate at Rutgers who helps run the project, said in an interview. “It’s hard to get a decent signal.”
“头部的晃动是个大问题，”帮助实施这个项目的博士研究生娜恩·怀斯(Nan Wise)在接受采访时说，“很难获得清楚的信号。”
She said a volunteer’s moving her head more than two millimeters — less than a 10th of an inch — can make for a bad day in the lab.
她说，哪怕一名志愿者的头部只移动了两毫米以上――不到一英尺的十分之一，都会让实验室一天的努力白费。
It is easy to dismiss this as a new kind of narcissism in search of scientific respectability, a kinky pleasure coming out of the shadows. Many YouTube videos now purport to show people using controlled breathing and erotic introspection to achieve what they describe as “thinking off” and “energy orgasms.”
人们很容易就将这一切贬损为，给新型的自恋癖寻求科学依据，让一种变态的快感得见天日。YouTube上目前有许多视频宣称，向人们展示如何通过呼吸调节和性想象达到他们所说的“脑淫”和“能量高潮”。
But the research is also illuminating a plausible neurological basis for the long intermingling of sexuality and mysticism and, in particular, the teachings of tantra, which arose in medieval India as a path to spiritual ecstasy. Perhaps most important, it illustrates how little we really know of human physiology. Scientists have long debated the purpose of the female orgasm, which plays no direct role in procreation. The emerging reality of spontaneous orgasm seems to do nothing but deepen the mystery.
但是这项研究也为人们长期以来将“性”与神秘主义（特别是密教哲学的教义）糅合在一起，找到了一个看似合理的神经病学依据。密教哲学起源于中世纪的印度，被看成一个可以达到大欢喜境界的途径。也许最重要的是，它显示出我们对人体生理的了解是多么有限。科学家们长期以来一直对女性高潮的作用争论不休，因为高潮对生育过程没有直接的影响。新的关于自发高潮的事实似乎进一步加深了这其中的玄妙程度。
The investigations began more than a century ago as physicians described what some called psychic coitus.
相关研究事实上从一个多世纪前就开始了，当时，医生们描述了被一些人称作“精神交媾”的现象。
Surveys revealed that the phenomenon, while rare, nonetheless seemed to occur with some regularity. In 1948, Alfred C. Kinsey of Indiana University and his colleagues published “Sexual Behavior in the Human Male.” That groundbreaking study looked at thousands of cases but noted only two in which men “could reach climax by deliberate concentration of thought on erotic situations.”
之后的调查显示，这种现象尽管少见，却会时不时地发生。1948年，印第安纳大学(Indiana University)的艾尔弗雷德·金西(Alfred C. Kinsey)和他的同事们发表了《男性性行为》的研究报告。这项具有开创性的研究记录了数千个案例，结果发现，男性通过刻意地集中于性幻想而达到高潮的案例仅有两个。
But the team’s follow-up report on women, published in 1953, surveyed 2,727 women, and the researchers found that 2 percent of the interviewees — 54 women — reported an ability to reach orgasm by “fantasy alone.”
这个团队在1953年发表了关于女性的后续研究报告，报告调查了2727名女性，结果发现，2%的受访者——54名女性——声称能够通过性幻想达到高潮。
The finding was significant in that it challenged a common stereotype — that men achieve orgasm more readily than women. Now science was suggesting that, at least for some women, all it took was a vivid imagination.
这些发现意义重大，因为它挑战了一个常见的刻板印象——男子比女子更容易达到高潮。现在，科学告诉我们，至少对于一些女性来说，只要想象足够生动，就可以达到性高潮。
In the late 1970s, Gina Ogden was working on her doctorate at the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco when a woman demonstrated the orgasmic state for a small group of sexologists-in-training. Fascinated, she took up the topic for her doctoral research and dissertation.
上世纪70年代末，吉娜·奥格登(Gina Ogden)正在旧金山的高级人类性学研究院”(The Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality)攻读博士学位，当时，一名女性向一组性学学生展示了这种高潮的状态。奥格登感到无比神奇，于是将其作为博士研究和博士论文的题目。
In 1980 she mentioned her research while giving a talk at a conference on women’s issues and was astonished when half the audience came up afterward to volunteer. “There was a stampede,” Dr. Ogden recalled. Of the 50 women she interviewed, 32 — or 64 percent — reported that they could reach orgasm by imagination alone.
1980年，她在一个妇女问题会议上讲话时提到了她的研究，演讲过后，有一半的观众要求当志愿者，这让她感到震惊。奥格登回忆说，她们几乎是争先恐后。在她面试的50名女性中，有32名，也就是64%的人称，她们通过想象就可以达到高潮。
Dr. Ogden later teamed up with Barry R. Komisaruk, a biologist on the Newark campus of Rutgers, who specializes in orgasm research. They studied 10 women who, despite the laboratory setting, reached sexual climax not only by stimulating themselves manually but also by indulging in erotic imagery.
奥格登后来与巴里·R·科米萨卢克(Barry R Komisaruk)合作，科米萨卢克是罗格斯大学纽瓦克分校的生物学家，专门从事性高潮研究。他们研究了10名女性。尽管是在实验室的环境下，这些女性不仅可以通过用手刺激身体的部位达到性高潮，还可以通过沉浸在性幻想中做到这一点。
The scientists found that both states resulted in significant rises in blood pressure, heart rate and tolerance for pain — a signature of orgasm. The findings, the team wrote in a 1992 paper, called for “a reassessment of the nature of orgasm.”
科学家们发现，这两种状态都会导致血压、心率和对疼痛的耐受力大幅升高——这些都是性高潮的表现。这个团队把上述结果写进1992年的论文中，并呼吁“重新评估高潮的本质。”
The idea began to go public. A 1996 book, “Sexational Secrets,” described a workshop on spontaneous orgasm and featured a how-to guide.
这个想法开始被公众所了解。1996年出版的《高度性机密》(Sexational Secrets)一书中提到了一个关于自发高潮的研习班，并着重提到了如何实现自发高潮。
At Rutgers, Dr. Komisaruk expanded his research to brain scans. In 2003, the first images confirmed the earlier study. Pleasure centers lit up more or less identically whether the women reached sexual highs by hand stimulation or by erotic thoughts.
在罗格斯大学，科米萨卢克博士将研究扩大到了脑部扫描。2003年，第一批图像证实了早些时候的研究。无论是通过手部的刺激，还是通过性幻想达到性高潮，快感中枢的活动基本相同。
Dr. Komisaruk had difficulty finding enough volunteers for a thorough study until he met Ms. Wise, the Rutgers doctoral student. A sex therapist, she turned out to have the right contacts as well as her own autoerotic skills. “It’s the least sexy thing in the world,” she said of having her brain scanned. “But I do it for science.” By early 2010, Ms. Wise and Dr. Komisaruk had succeeded in scanning a dozen volunteers.
早先，科米萨卢克很难找到足够的志愿者来进行彻底的研究，直到遇到了罗格斯大学的怀斯。作为一个性治疗师，她不仅拥有相应的人脉，还了解自体性行为的技巧。“这是世界上最不性感的事了，”她提到自己的大脑被扫描时说，“但是为了科学，我愿意这样做。”到2010年初，怀斯和科米萨卢克博士成功地对十多位志愿者进行了扫描。
Late that year, at the annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, the world’s largest group for brain research, the Rutgers team presented a surprise finding that suggested that the scientists were zeroing in on the phenomenon’s origins.
那年晚些时候，在世界最大的脑部研究组织——神经科学学会(the Society for Neuroscience的)的年会上，来自罗格斯大学的这个团队展示了一个惊人的发现，这个发现告诉人们，科学家们正在接近这个现象的起源。
Women who simply thought about the stimulation of their breasts and genitals, the scans revealed, lit up the brain’s corresponding sensory areas.
扫描结果显示，如果女性想象自己的胸部和生殖器受到刺激，她们大脑的相应感觉区域会被激活。
“That’s not the traditional view of the sensory cortex,” Ms. Wise said recently, alluding to how sense organs are usually seen as responsible for the cortical responses.
怀斯最近说：“这与人们对感觉皮层的传统看法不同。”人们通常认为感觉器官才负责刺激脑皮层的反应。
Dr. Ogden, from her home in Cambridge, Mass., praised the research as likely to expand the accepted definition of female sexuality.
在位于马萨诸塞州剑桥市的家中，奥格登称赞了这项研究，称其有可能扩充女性性行为的主流定义。
“Sex research for a long time shortchanged women by asking the wrong questions, or asking very limited questions,” she said. “If we just notice what’s around — notice what people are doing and saying and feeling — we can do a better job.”
“性学研究者长期以来对女性的关注不够，因为他们的问题是错的，而且非常有局限性，”她说，“我们只需注意一下周围——注意人们做了什么、说了什么以及感受到了什么——我们的研究就会做得更好。”