UNITED NATIONS — It was the women who helped end the bitter political and ethnic strife that ravaged Northern Ireland in the 1970s. It was the women who said enough to the atrocities in Liberia, peacefully resolving a civil conflict there more than a decade ago. Now, women are turning their attention to the divided Korean Peninsula, where a technical state of war has endured for more than 62 years.
联合国——上世纪70年代，是一名女性帮忙结束了肆虐北爱尔兰的激烈政治和民族冲突。10多年前，又是一名女性对利比里亚的暴行大声疾呼，最终和平解决了那里的内战。如今，女性又把注意力转向了分裂的朝鲜半岛。严格来说，这里在过去62年中一直处于战争状态。
On Wednesday at the United Nations in New York, using a conference on the status of women as a backdrop, leading female advocates of disarmament formally announced their intent to walk across the Demilitarized Zone, the two-mile-wide swath of land, ringed by barbed wire and booby traps, that separates North and South.
周三，在纽约的联合国总部，宣扬裁军的重要女性活动人士以一次关于女性地位的会议为背景，正式宣布了她们步行穿越非军事区(Demilitarized Zone)的想法。这个将朝鲜和韩国分隔开来的军事区宽2英里（约合3.2公里），周围环绕着铁丝网和诡雷。
Their goal, organizers of the walk said, was to punctuate their desire for a permanent peace treaty to replace the 1953 armistice that halted, but technically did not end, the Korean War, a conflict that claimed an estimated four million lives, mostly Koreans, and separated millions of families.
步行活动的组织者称，她们的目标就是强调签订永久和平条约，来取代1953年的停战协议的愿望。1953年的停战协议中止了朝鲜战争，但严格来讲，这场战争仍在继续。共有约400万人——主要是朝鲜半岛居民——在这场冲突中丧生，数以百万计的家庭也因此分隔两地。
The organizers, a broad array of international peace activists, also see their plan as a catalyst for other steps that could revive the North-South reconciliation process, which has essentially been paralyzed by hostility, suspicion and occasional eruptions of violence.
由大量国际和平活动分子组成的活动组织者，也认为她们的计划将推动其他行动的展开，从而重启南北和解进程。由于敌意、怀疑和偶然爆发的暴力冲突，这一过程已基本陷入瘫痪。
“We are walking to invite all concerned to imagine a new chapter in Korean history, marked by dialogue, understanding, and — ultimately — forgiveness,” Christine Ahn, a Korean-American activist who is the leading organizer of the group, said at a news conference.
该组织的重要组织者、美籍韩裔活动人士克里斯蒂娜·安(Christine Ahn)在新闻发布会上说，“我们希望能通过行走活动，邀请所有关心此事的人，构想一个朝鲜半岛历史的新篇章，它将以对话、理解，以及最终的宽恕为特点。”
She and fellow organizers, including Gloria Steinem, the author and an honorary co-chairwoman of the group, said they understood that securing permission to cross one of the world’s most militarized areas would be difficult, but expressed hope that it would succeed.
她与其他组织者，其中包括该组织的发起者和名誉联合主席格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)都表示，她们知道，想得到穿过世界上军事化程度最高的地区之一的许可将会很困难，但她们也表示，此次活动有望获得成功。
Ms. Steinem, who lost childhood friends in the Korean War and has visited the South Korean side of the DMZ, said it symbolized the separation between families who are geographically so close and yet so isolated. “For these and many reasons, when Korean-American women initiated this peace walk across the DMZ, I wanted to join,” she said.
在朝鲜战争中失去童年伙伴的斯泰纳姆曾到访非军事区的韩国一侧。她说，非军事区象征着亲人之间的分离。这些人地理上非常接近，却又难以团聚。她说，“由于这些和许多其他原因，当美籍韩裔女性发起穿越非军事区的和平行走活动时，我就想加入进去。”
It was the relatively reclusive North Korean side that was the first to endorse the proposal, although final approval is still pending.
首先认可该提议的是相对脱离国际社会的朝鲜，尽管最终是否能得到批准仍然悬而未决。
Suzy Kim, a professor of Korean history at Rutgers University who is another main organizer, said the group had yet to hear anything from the South Korean government side. South Korean officials declined to comment on the proposal Wednesday.
罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的朝鲜半岛历史教授苏济·金(Suzy Kim)是另一个主要组织者。她说，该组织还在等待韩国政府方面的回应。韩国官员拒绝对周三的提议置评。
The group’s intent is to walk across the DMZ, from North to South, on May 24, International Women’s Day for Peace and Disarmament.
该组织计划于5月24日，从北到南步行穿越非军事区，当天是国际妇女和平与裁军日(International Women’s Day for Peace and Disarmament)。
Ms. Kim credited the original idea to Ms. Ahn, who founded a group called Women De-Militarize the Zone a few years ago. “She had been thinking of how neglected the women’s role had been” in attempting to solve the Korean impasse, Ms. Kim said.
苏济·金称，这个想法最初由克里斯蒂娜·安提出。几年前，后者创立了一个叫做“妇女非军事区”(Women De-Militarize the Zone)的组织。苏济·金说，在试图解决朝鲜僵局的问题上，“她一直在思考女性的角色受到了多大的忽视”。
Ms. Ahn’s website, WomenCrossDMZ.org, said the planned walk was meant as a “symbolic act of peace.”
克里斯蒂娜·安的网站WomenCrossDMZ.org表示，按照设想，计划中的行走活动是一个“关于和平的象征性举动”。
Thirty female peace activists from around the world are the core group of walkers. They include Ms. Steinem’s fellow honorary co-chairwoman, Mairead Corrigan Maguire, a 1976 Nobel Peace laureate from Northern Ireland, who helped organize enormous peace demonstrations, mostly of women, that crossed sectarian lines and helped end the bloodshed there.
来自世界各地的30名女性和平活动人士是此次活动的核心成员。其中包括与斯泰纳姆同为名誉联合主席的梅里德·科里根·麦奎尔(Mairead Corrigan Maguire)。她来自北爱尔兰，是1976年的诺贝尔和平奖得主，曾参与组织跨越宗派界线的大型和平示威活动——参与者多为女性——并帮助结束了那里的流血冲突。
Another organizer, Leymah Gbowee, shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 2011 for her work in leading a women’s peace movement that brought an end to civil war in Liberia in 2003 and led to the eventual exile, and successful war-crimes prosecution, of President Charles G. Taylor.
另一名组织者是莱伊曼·古博薇(Leymah Gbowee)，她因为领导结束了2003年利比里亚内战的女性和平运动而与他人共同获得了2011年的诺贝尔和平奖。这场运动还促使总统查尔斯·G·泰勒(Charles G. Taylor)被迫流亡，并最终成功地使他受到了战争罪起诉。