Stephanie Sinclair has mostly happy memories of her childhood in Miami, where she grew up encouraged by her parents to be carefree, confident and defiant. It was there, in an elementary school broadcast arts program, that she requested to be a camera operator, offering the first inkling of what she would do with her life.
斯蒂芬妮·辛克莱(Stephanie Sinclair)的童年在迈阿密度过，记忆大多十分愉快。成长过程中，父母鼓励她无忧无虑、有自信、不惧权威。在当地小学的传播艺术课程里，她申请去操控摄像机。这是她第一次隐约感到将来会以什么为生。
Today, she is one of National Geographic’s conflict photojournalists, one of about a dozen women among the magazine’s 60 freelance photographers.
现如今，辛克莱是《国家地理》(National Geographic)的战地摄影记者。在该杂志的60名自由摄影师中，有十几名女性，而辛克莱是其中之一。
For the past decade, Ms. Sinclair, 40, has traveled throughout Yemen, India, Afghanistan, Nepal and Ethiopia, documenting the lives of child brides, where girls as young as 6 are offered to older men as wives, often serving as a way to pay off a family’s debt. She often wonders what her childhood would have been like had she been born under those circumstances.
过去10年里，现年40岁的辛克莱穿梭在也门、印度、阿富汗、尼泊尔和埃塞俄比亚，记录童养媳的生活。在那些地方，小至6岁的女童会被送给年长男性为妻，往往是作为帮家族偿债的一种方式。她常想，如果自己出生于这样的环境，又会有怎样的童年？
“I don’t see myself any different from those girls,” she said.
“我觉得自己不会与这些女孩有什么不同，”她说。
“Most of the girls I have photographed got married between the age of 8 and 13; that’s such a pure age,” added Ms. Sinclair, who also does freelance work for The New York Times Magazine, Time and Newsweek. “I really identified with the innocence of that age, and I felt angry that no one was protecting them.”
“我拍的多数女孩在8到13岁之间结婚，正是单纯的年纪，”辛克莱还说。“这个年纪的纯真让我产生了强烈的共鸣。我很生气，没人保护她们。”她也为《纽约时报杂志》(The New York Times Magazine)、《时代》周刊(Time)和《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)担任自由摄影师。
Several images from her series “Too Young to Wed” are part of “Women of Vision: National Geographic Photographers on Assignment,” an exhibition opening Thursday and on view through March 9, 2014. It features 10 other photographers — Lynsey Addario, Kitra Cahana, Jodi Cobb, Diane Cook, Carolyn Drake, Lynn Johnson, Beverly Joubert, Erika Larsen, Maggie Steber and Amy Toensing — who have been published by the magazine in the past decade.
辛克莱创作的《过早成婚》(Too Young to Wed)系列中的部分影像参与了本周四开幕的展览《女性视角：工作中的国家地理摄影师》(Women of Vision: National Geographic Photographers on Assignment)。展览将一直延续到2014年3月9日，除辛克莱之外，还收录了过去10年间曾在《国家地理》杂志上发表图片的10名摄影师的作品。她们分别是：林赛·阿达里奥(Lynsey Addario)、基特拉·卡阿纳(Kitra Cahana)、乔迪·科布(Jodi Cobb)、黛安·库克(Diane Cook)、卡罗琳·德雷克 (Carolyn Drake)、林恩·约翰逊(Lynn Johnson)、贝弗利·朱伯特(Beverly Joubert)、埃丽卡·拉森(Erika Larsen)、玛吉·斯蒂伯(Maggie Steber)，以及艾米·滕辛(Amy Toensing)。
The exhibition, opening at the National Geographic Museum in Washington with an accompanying book, includes more than 100 images done by the photographers while on assignment for the magazine, covering a range of topics: wildlife, war, landscapes and social justice.
展览在华盛顿的国家地理博物馆(National Geographic Museum)举行，还同时推出了一本相关摄影集，其中收录了这些摄影师受该杂志委托拍摄的100多张照片，涵盖各种话题：野生动植物、战争、风景及社会公正。
Elizabeth Krist, the exhibit’s curator, said that while you can’t necessarily identify if an image was captured by a woman or a man, she thinks that gender plays a significant role in how a story is documented, especially with some issues like child brides or sexual assault.
策展人伊丽莎白·克里斯特(Elizabeth Krist)表示，尽管人们不一定能判断出照片出自女性还是男性之手，但她认为，性别在记录的方式中起到了重要作用，尤其是在童养媳和性侵犯这类问题上。
“I wish this book wasn’t necessary,” said Ms. Krist, a senior photo editor at National Geographic. “I also think that women are still underrepresented, and I think it is especially true if you look at developing countries. Women are more likely to cover issues that are important to women and to have access to these issues.”
克里斯特是《国家地理》的高级图片编辑，她说，“我希望本没有必要出这本书。我还认为这个领域内的女性人数仍然不足，看看发展中国家的情况，更是如此。女性更加可能报道对女性重要的话题，也更可能接触到相关信息。”
Many aspects of the industry have changed for Ms. Cobb, one of only four women to become a National Geographic staff photographer. She has worked for the magazine for the past two decades, but she still does not believe there are enough female photographers featured in major news publications.
仅有四名女性成为《国家地理》的专职摄影师，科布是其中之一。对她而言，行业里发生了诸多变化。过去20年间，她都在为《国家地理》工作，不过她仍然觉得，受聘于大型新闻机构的女摄影师人数还不够多。
When Ms. Cobb began her photojournalism career in the mid-1970s, she was the only woman on the photo staff at The Wilmington News Journal and remembers constantly feeling she had to prove herself to be part of many of the male-dominated photo pits. It wasn’t until 10 years later when she went on assignment in Saudi Arabia for National Geographic that she realized the advantages of being a woman.
上世纪70年代中期，科布开始摄影记者生涯的时候，她是《威尔明顿新闻日报》(The Wilmington News Journal)图片部门唯一的女性。在她的记忆中，常常感到需要在男性主导的摄影圈里证明自己。直到10年后，受《国家地理》之托到沙特阿拉伯工作时，她才意识到身为女性的优势。
“My work in Saudi Arabia could not have been done by a man; it had to be done by a woman,” said Ms. Cobb, who documented the role of women in Saudi society. “That experience was a real turning point for me and how I approached my work. I began feeling more confident that there was a receptive audience for topics that focus on issues that affect women.”
“男人干不了我在沙特阿拉伯的工作，必须得是女人，”科布说。她记录的是女性在沙特社会中扮演的角色。“对我个人和我对待工作的方式而言，那次经历都是真正的转折点。我开始感觉更有信心了，有一批观众关心着影响女性的话题。”
Along with Ms. Cobb, several other women in the exhibit have experienced peril in the line of duty. Ms. Addario, a seasoned conflict photojournalist with more than a decade of experience in the Middle East, has been kidnapped twice, first in 2004 and again in 2011, when she was one of four journalists from The New York Times held hostage in Libya by pro-Qaddafi forces. Ms. Addario was repeatedly threatened and sexually assaulted during their six-day detainment. While reporting in Afghanistan, Ms. Sinclair had to fire her driver after he repeatedly mocked her for wearing a burqa and drove her to several of his personal locations against her will.
在参加展览的女性摄影师中，有几位和科布一样，也在工作中遭遇过危险。阿达里奥是一位经验丰富的摄影记者，在中东有十多年的经验。她被绑架过两次，第一次是在2004年，第二次是2011年时，她跟《纽约时报》的另外三名记者一起，被利比亚亲卡扎菲派势力扣留了六天，其间阿达里奥多次遭到威胁和性侵犯。辛克莱驻阿富汗报道时，不得不解雇了她的司机，因为他多次嘲笑她穿罩袍的做法，而且还违背她的意愿，把她载去了他的一些私人场所。
“You try not to dwell on these stories too much, but they are all real,” Ms. Cobb said. “They happen to men, too.”
“你不想过多地纠缠在这些事情中，但它们都是真事。”科布说：“它们也会发生在男性身上。”
While organizing the exhibit and book, it was important to Ms. Krist that she convey a broad selection of images and photographers, varying in subject matter, location and style. After working at the magazine for more than two decades, she identified one overarching theme among the photographers: the “fundamental humanity in which they approach their subjects.”
在安排展览和图书内容的时候，克里斯特认为，要去展现大量不同题材、地理位置和风格的摄影作品和摄影师，这十分重要。在《国家地理》工作了20多年后，她认为这些摄影师有一个至关重要的共同主题：“她们在处理拍摄对象时所展露的根本的人性。”
“They are the kind of people that you want to be around, the kind of people that you want to build relationships with,” she said.
“她们是那种你希望与之消磨时光、建立关系的人，”她说。
As a photography intern at National Geographic in 2009, Ms. Cahana pitched more than 50 story ideas to her editors. None were approved, she says in the book. Two years later, the science section of the magazine was preparing an article about the science of the teenage brain. It called on Ms. Cahana, then 22, to document the images.
2009年，卡阿纳在《国家地理》当摄影实习生，她在书中说，自己向编辑推介了50多个选题，一个都没有获得批准。两年后，该杂志的科学版块开始写一篇关于青少年大脑科学的文章，并让时年22岁的卡阿纳去拍摄相关图片。
Ms. Cahana said she thought her age and gender allowed her to seamlessly blend with her high school-age subjects to produce the series, “Teenage Brains.” She worked on the article for almost four months, immersing herself in the high school environment only six years after she had graduated from an Orthodox school in Montréal. She attended classes, went to lunches and participated in after-school activities to meet her subjects. Eventually she realized that she no longer needed to go to school to meet her subjects — they began calling her to invite her out to events, just to have her there.
卡阿纳说，她认为自己在年龄和性别上有优势，可以天衣无缝地混迹在作为拍摄对象的高中生之间，从而拍摄《青少年的大脑》(Teenage Brains)系列。她为这篇文章工作了近四个月，让自己沉浸于高中生活的环境中，而这时距离她从蒙特利尔的一所东正教高中毕业只有六年。卡阿纳和学生们一起去上课、吃午餐及参与课余活动，以便跟她的拍摄对象碰面。最终，她发现自己无需再去学校跟拍摄对象碰面了——他们开始打电话邀请她外出参加一些活动，没有别的目的，只是希望她也一起去。
Ms. Cahana acknowledges that entering into the lives of young girls might not necessarily have been appropriate for an older man. “I was just having an easier time as a younger girl,” she said. Her images, several of which are in the exhibition, include a teenager getting her tongue pierced after peer pressure from a friend and a boxing match between two teenage boys, being recorded by friends on their cellphones to post on Facebook.
卡阿纳承认，让一个老男人混进年轻女孩的生活圈不太适合。她说：“作为一个年轻女孩，我去做这项工作更容易。”展览中有几幅图片属于这个系列，包括一名十几岁的女孩在朋友们的压力下穿了舌洞，还有一幅图片是两个男孩进行一场拳击比赛，被他们的朋友用手机拍下来，以贴在Facebook上。
“When you really have the time to develop deep relationships with your subjects, it shows,” said Ms. Cahana, who had her first published photograph at The New York Times at the age of 17 and was awarded the International Center of Photography Infinity Award for Young Photographer earlier this year.
“人们能够看得出来，你是否真的有时间去跟拍摄对象发展深层关系，” 卡阿纳说。她第一次在《纽约时报》上发表照片时年仅17岁。今年早些时候，她荣获了国际摄影中心无限奖(International Center of Photography Infinity Award)的年轻摄影师奖项。
Working as a young female photographer was not always easy for Ms. Cahana, and she has distinct memories of initially wanting to play down her femininity to be more accepted by the mostly male staff during her first internship. Several months on the job at Flash 90, an Israeli photo agency, she met Benedicte Kurzen, another young freelancer. Ms. Cahana remembers Ms. Kurzen confidently walking into the newsroom, talking about all of the places she had traveled as a photographer.
作为一名年轻的女摄影师，卡阿纳的工作并非总是一帆风顺。她清楚地记得，最初她想淡化自己的女性特质，因为在她第一次实习期间，男性员工占了绝大多数，她觉着这样可以让他们更好地接受自己。在以色列图片社Flash 90工作了几个月之后，她遇到了另一名年轻的自由摄影师贝内蒂特·库尔森(Benedicte Kurzen)。卡阿纳记得库尔森自信地走进编辑部，谈论自己作为摄影师去过的所有地方的样子。
She also happened to be wearing a skirt.
她也正好穿着一条裙子。
That brief interaction with Ms. Kurzen changed Ms. Cahana’s perception of what was possible. “There was this young woman who was able to carve out this whole identity and still do the work she was doing,” she said. “It made me look at myself and my work completely different.”
跟库尔森之间的那次短暂交流，改变了卡阿纳对人生可能性的看法。“这个年轻女孩可以充分经营女性身份，同时又干好摄影工作，”她说。“这彻底改变了我看待自己和工作的方式。”