PAJU, South Korea — A group of 30 female peace activists, including the feminist leader Gloria Steinem and two Nobel Peace Prize laureates, crossed the demilitarized zone from North Korea to South Korea on Sunday, calling for an end to the Korean War, whose unresolved hostility has been symbolized by the heavily armed border for six decades.
韩国坡州——周日，包括女性主义者领袖格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)和两名诺贝尔和平奖得主在内的30名女性和平活动人士，从朝鲜到韩国穿越了非军事区，呼吁结束朝鲜战争。60年来，重度武装的边境表明，两国间的敌意仍未化解。
It was rare for the two rival Korean governments to agree to allow a group of peace activists to pass through the border area, known as the DMZ.
这两个敌对的政府竟然允许一群和平活动人士穿越位于边境地带的非军事区，这种情况实属罕见。
Yet some of the symbolism the activists had hoped to generate with their Women Cross DMZ campaign was lost when South Korea denied them permission to walk through Panmunjom, a border village where a truce was signed in 1953 to halt, though not formally end, the conflict, leaving the divided Korea technically in a state of war.
这些活动分子原本希望“女性穿越非军事区”(Women Cross DMZ)的活动能产生一些象征意义，但是当韩国拒绝让她们穿越板门店时，其中一些象征意义便随之消失。板门店是一个位于两国边界的村庄；1953年，为了停止——尽管并非正式终结——这场冲突，两国在这里签订了停战协议，所以严格来说，分裂的朝鲜半岛仍处于交战状态。
Instead, the women, who had traveled from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, were detoured to a checkpoint southwest of Panmunjom. There, convoys of South Korean trucks go to and from a joint industrial park in the North Korean town of Kaesong. The women, carrying banners, were again barred from walking across the border, and had to cross by bus.
于是，这些从朝鲜首都平壤过来的女性，便绕到板门店西南方向的一个检查站。在那里，韩国卡车队从位于朝鲜开城的一个联合工业园区来来回回。有关方面再次禁止这些举着条幅的女性步行穿过边境，所以她们不得不乘大巴过境。
Still, they considered the endeavor a success. “We have accomplished what no one said can be done, which is to be a trip for peace, for reconciliation, for human rights and a trip to which both governments agreed,” Ms. Steinem told the South Korean news media. “We were able to be citizen diplomats.”
不过，她们仍然认为此次行动取得了成功。“我们完成了之前没人认为能够完成的事，这次行动是一次关于和平、和解和人权的旅程，而且得到了两国政府的同意，”斯泰纳姆告诉韩国新闻媒体。“我们成了民间外交官。”
The women — including the Nobel Peace laureates Mairead Maguire from Northern Ireland and Leymah Gbowee from Liberia — arrived in Pyongyang on Tuesday for the march, which they hoped would highlight the need to build peace and set the stage for Korean reunification by formally ending the war with a permanent peace treaty.
周二，这些女性抵达平壤，准备开始此次行程，北爱尔兰的梅里德·麦奎尔(Mairead Maguire)和利比里亚的莱伊曼·古博薇(Leymah Gbowee)这两位诺贝尔和平奖得主也在其中。她们希望，此次行动将突显建设和平局面的必要性，并以签订永久性和平条约的方式来正式终结这场战争，从而为朝鲜半岛的统一奠定基础。
The crossing, however, took place amid tension over the North’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, and over its human rights record.
不过，穿越活动进行之时，由于朝鲜试图制造核武器和弹道导弹，再加上其糟糕的人权记录，当地氛围比较紧张。
Just two days before the women’s arrival in Pyongyang, the North’s state-run media hurled one of its harshest — and most sexist — screeds against President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, calling her “a fork-tongued viper” and one “not worth calling a woman” because “she has never given birth to a baby.” Last week, Secretary of State John Kerry said the North Korean government, led by Kim Jong-un, was “one of the most egregious examples of reckless disregard for human rights.”
就在这些女性抵达平壤的两天之前，朝鲜官方媒体对韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)进行了最猛烈也最具有性别歧视色彩的抨击，说她是“舌尖分叉的毒蛇”，因为“从未生过孩子根本不配被称为女人”。上周，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)说金正恩(Kim Jong-un)领导下的朝鲜政府是“世界上悍然罔顾人权和人性的最令人发指的例子之一”。
Some rights activists in the United States and South Korea opposed the women’s trip, saying that it would be used as propaganda by North Korea. They urged the peace activists to call on the North to dismantle political prison camps and end human rights abuses.
美国和韩国的一些维权活动人士对此次行动表示反对，称它会被朝鲜用来做宣传。他们敦促和平活动人士呼吁朝鲜拆除政治犯集中营，结束践踏人权的行为。
When the activists marched in Pyongyang on Saturday, North Korean women in colorful traditional dresses lined a boulevard waving red and pink paper flowers, according to North Korean television footage.
根据朝鲜电视台播出的画面，周六，当这些活动人士走进平壤时，身着彩色传统服饰的朝鲜女性站在一条大道旁，挥舞着红色和粉色的纸花。
One of the roadside signs said “Let us reunify the divided country as soon as possible!” On the other side of the border on Sunday, hundreds of South Korean activists welcomed the women who crossed into the South Korean city of Paju, north of Seoul. Not far away, however, hundreds of conservative South Koreans, including defectors from the North, also rallied, accusing the activists of “flattering Kim Jong-un” and promoting a “fake peace.”
路边的其中一条标语称“让我们尽快把分裂的国家统一起来”！周日，在边界另一边，数以百计的韩国活动分子也在欢迎这些女性的到来，她们进入了位于首尔北部的韩国城市坡州。不过，就在不远处，包括脱北者在内的数以百计的韩国保守派则在表示抗议，指责这些活动人士在“讨好金正恩”，宣扬“虚假的和平”。
“Go back to the North!” they chanted.
他们高呼，“滚回朝鲜！”
The conservative protesters cited reports in the state-run North Korean news media that quoted some of the visitors as praising North Korean leaders. In its reports about the activists’ meetings with North Korean women in Pyongyang, the North’s Korean Central News Agency also cited “speakers” who it said called the United States “a kingdom of terrorism and a kingpin of human rights abuses.”
保守派抗议者提到了朝鲜官方媒体的一些报道，这些报道称，有些来访者对朝鲜领导人表示了赞扬。朝鲜中央通讯社(Central News Agency)在报道这些活动人士在平壤与朝鲜女性见面的情况时，还引用了一些“发言者”的话，称这些“发言者”把美国称为“恐怖主义的国度和践踏人权的主要国家”。
The conservatives said those reports proved that the activists had been used as propaganda tools by the North. But organizers of the trip said that none of the visiting women had uttered any of the remarks that were reported in the North Korean media. The organizers stressed that their trip had been aimed at easing the mistrust and hostility that not only divided the two Koreas but also people in the South.
保守派称，这些报道证明那些活动人士已经被朝鲜作为宣传工具加以利用了。但是，活动组织者称，前来这里参加活动的女性中没人曾说过朝鲜媒体报道的那些话。组织者强调，她们此行的目的一直是减轻猜疑和敌意——这些猜疑和敌意不仅导致了朝鲜半岛的分裂，还使韩国人民产生了分歧。