As “women’s empowerment” has become a buzz phrase in the last few years, some people are pushing back. They resent this as the latest fad in political correctness, a liberal mission to troll for support from woolly-minded female voters.
随着“女性平权”在近年成为一个热门词汇，一些人开始唱反调。他们讨厌这个概念，视其为最新的“政治正确”流行时尚，是自由派搞出来的名堂，目的是吸引头脑糊涂的女性选民。
But a few recent incidents have underscored why a push on gender equity isn’t just a mindless fad and why it’s not primarily about political correctness.
然而，最近的几起事件突显出，为什么推动性别平等不只是盲目的时尚，为什么它主要不是关于政治正确。
Consider Marte Dalelv, the 24-year-old Norwegian woman who reported a rape in Dubai — and then was sentenced to 16 months in prison on charges that included extramarital sex. That was, she said, three months longer than the alleged rapist’s prison sentence. After an outcry, the authorities “pardoned” Dalelv (and also, according to news-media reports, her alleged rapist). That’s the first reason “empowerment” isn’t just a feel-good slogan: profound gender injustices persist —not just in Dubai but also, albeit to a lesser extent, in the United States.
以马尔特·达勒芙(Marte Dalelv)的案子为例，这名24岁的挪威女性在迪拜报告说，她被强奸了，结果却被判处16个月的监禁，罪名包括婚外性行为。她说，她的刑期比强奸者的刑期还长出三个月。在这件事引起国际反弹之后，迪拜当局“赦免”了达勒芙（根据新闻媒体的报道，当局也赦免了强奸她的人）。这是“女性平权”不只是感觉良好的口号的第一条原因：深层次的性别不公正依然存在——不仅是在迪拜，而且（在较轻的程度上）在美国也有。
The United States military has a deplorable record of sexual violence within its ranks, with an estimated 26,000 service members experiencing unwanted sexual contact annually. Yet President Obama has so far declined to back the sensible, bipartisan and broadly supported proposal of Senator Kirsten Gillibrand to improve investigations of rape in the military and reduce conflicts of interest.
美军部队存在可叹的性暴力记录，估计每年有26万现役军人经历不受欢迎的性接触。即便如此，奥巴马总统至今仍拒绝支持参议员陆天娜(Kirsten Gillibrand)提出的提案，这份合情合理的提案得到两党的广泛支持，它旨在改善对军中强奸案的调查、减少利益冲突。
Add to the toxic brew of sexual violence the Steubenville rape case, widespread sex trafficking and laws in many states that give rapists custody rights to children they father. Ariel Castro, the Cleveland man who held three women in his house for about a decade, has already requested visitation with a child he fathered by rape — although a judge declined the request.
美国的性暴力阴暗面还包括斯托本维尔强奸案、普遍存在的拐卖妇女、以及许多州的法律让强奸犯得到子女的监护权。把三名女性囚禁在家中大约10年的克利夫兰男子阿里埃尔·卡斯特罗(Ariel Castro)就曾请求获得他强奸女性生下的一个孩子的探视权——尽管法官拒绝了这一请求。
The political backdrop is frustration that women aren’t fully represented in decisions that affect them, and that’s a second reason this issue reverberates. That’s why State Senator Wendy Davis of Texas electrified the social media when she filibustered restrictive abortion legislation. It’s not that men favor tougher abortion laws than women (that’s an issue with a negligible gender gap) but that plenty of women feel bullied by out-of-touch male lawmakers.
目前的政治背景令人沮丧，在影响女性的决策中，女性的参与不够多，这是“女性平权”问题引发反响的第二个原因。这就是为什么德克萨斯州参议员温迪·戴维斯(Wendy Davis)动用拖延战术阻挠限制性的堕胎立法提案，在社交媒体上引发强烈反响。问题并不在于男性比女性更倾向于支持严厉的堕胎法（在这个问题上，性别差异可以忽略不计），而是因为很多女性觉得，脱离现实的男性议员对她们不够尊重。
Anyone thinking that women’s empowerment is a side issue also wasn’t paying attention when Malala Yousafzai, shot in the head by the Pakistani Taliban for advocating girls’ education, spoke to the United Nations in July on her 16th birthday. Malala highlighted the third reason to focus on empowering women and girls. It’s perhaps the best leverage we have to fight social ills.
如果有人认为赋予女性权力是个无关紧要的话题，那么他显然没有注意到7月份马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)在她16岁生日当天，在联合国(United Nations)发表的演讲。马拉拉因为倡导女孩受教育，而被巴基斯坦塔利班(Taliban)的枪手击中头部。马拉拉指出了关注妇女和女孩权益的第三个原因：这也许是我们和社会弊病作斗争的最佳利器。
As Malala noted, a powerful force for change in the world is education, especially girls’ education. The United States has invested thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars in Afghanistan and Pakistan since 9/11 and accomplished little; maybe we should have invested more in the education toolbox. Drones and military patrols sometimes reinforce extremism, while girls’ education tends to undermine it.
正如马拉拉所指出的，改变世界的强大力量是教育，特别是让女孩受教育。自从9·11事件以来，美国在阿富汗战场付出了数千军人阵亡的代价，向阿富汗和巴基斯坦投入数千亿美元，但收效甚微；或许我们应当在教育上多投一些钱。无人机和军事巡逻有时只会加强极端主义，而让女孩接受教育则倾向于削弱极端主义。
Change can come not only from a bomb but also from a girl with a schoolbook studying under a tree or in a mosque. She will, on average, have fewer children, be more likely to hold a job and exercise more influence; her brothers and her children will be less likely to join the Taliban.
改变不仅能来自一枚炸弹，还能来自于拿着教科书在树下或清真寺里学习的女童。平均而言，她会少生几个孩子，更有可能外出工作，并拥有更大影响力；她的兄弟和孩子们参加塔利班的几率也会减小。
Likewise, women’s health programs aren’t a chivalrous handout but a cost-effective step toward a healthier society. The Guttmacher Institute reported this week that without publicly financed contraception programs in 2010 the unintended pregnancy rate among teenagers would have been 73 percent higher. And lawmakers want to cut such programs?
同样，妇女健康项目并不仅是狭义的施舍，而是步入更健康社会的具有高度成本效益的一步。古特马赫研究所(Guttmacher Institute)本周报告称，如果没有2010年公共资助的避孕项目，青少年中的意外怀孕率就会高出73%。国会议员们竟然想要削减这样的项目吗？
A final insight into women as leverage for change came during my annual win-a-trip journey, in which I take a student with me on a reporting trip. The winner, Erin Luhmann of the University of Wisconsin, and I delved into the malnutrition that contributes to 45 percent of all child deaths around the world.
对于妇女作为改变动力的最后一个领悟，来自我的年度“与纪思道同行”之旅，即我带一名学生走上报道之旅。今年的获奖者是威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)的埃琳·卢曼(Erin Luhmann)，她和我一起研究了与全球45%儿童死亡病例有关的营养不良问题。
So how do we save those millions of lives? It’s not just about transporting more food to the hungry or about improving agricultural yields in Africa. It’s also about — yes! — empowering women.
我们该如何拯救这数以百万计的生命？这不只是关于为饥饿者运送更多食物或提高非洲的农作物收成，还在于（没错！）赋予女性权力。
In rural Chad, we accompanied World Vision and chatted with local women about why children were malnourished. One factor there, as in much of the world: Men eat first, and women and children take what’s left.
在乍得农村地区，我们跟随世界宣明会(World Vision)，与当地妇女就儿童为什么会营养不良的问题进行了谈话。这里的一个因素和世界上很多地方一样：男人先吃，妇女和儿童再吃剩下的。
“We know about malnutrition,” one said, but if the meat doesn’t go mostly to the man, she added, “there is trouble in the house.”
“我们知道营养不良，”一名女性说。但她补充说，如果大多数肉没给男人吃，“家里就会有麻烦”。
Researchers have found that giving women land titles, inheritance rights and bank accounts aren’t just symbolic gestures. Rather, they are strategies to increase women’s influence in household decisions and save children’s lives.
研究人员发现，给予妇女土地所有权、财产继承权和银行账户并不仅是象征性姿态。相反，这些策略能够提升妇女在家庭决策中的影响力，拯救孩子的生命。
So to those of you who chafe at “women’s rights” as political correctness run amok, think again. This isn’t a women’s issue or a man’s issue, for Malala is exactly right: “We cannot all succeed if half of us are held back.”
所以，那些对“女权”不满、视其为“政治正确”做过头的人应该反思一下。这不是一个女性问题或男性问题，马拉拉说的完全正确：“如果我们中有一半人受到压抑，我们就无法获得全胜。”