Among the first mainstream American celebrities to openly wear tattoos was Janis Joplin. On her left wrist, she had a Florentine bracelet. On her chest, she wore a small heart — the size of a candy heart. “Just a little treat for the boys,” she told Rolling Stone, “like icing on the cake.”
詹尼斯·乔普林(Janis Jopin)是最早公然文身的主流美国名人之一。她在左腕上文了一个佛罗伦萨款式手镯，胸前文了一颗小小的心，大小和心型糖果差不多。“只是给男孩们的小款待，”她对《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志说，“就像蛋糕上的糖霜。”
It seems like only yesterday that tattoos were rarities, like certain crows. They were worth commenting upon, either for their beauty or their banality. Now tattoos creep like vines along the arms, legs and torsos of nearly everyone you meet. If print is dead, ink is undead — and on the move.
就在不久前，文身就像某种形式的自夸，十分少见。不管美丽还是平庸，它们都值得被品评一番。如今你目光所及，几乎人人都有文身，它们就像葡萄藤蔓一般蔓延过手臂、双腿和躯体。如果说印刷死了，墨水却并未死掉，而且还在不断发展。
There’s been some sophisticated fiction about skin and ink. I’m thinking especially of Sarah Hall’s novel “Electric Michelangelo,” a finalist for the 2004 Man Booker Prize. But it’s a lacunae in our literature that there hasn’t been a definitive nonfiction book on the topic, a volume that packs sociology and criticism and history and memoir into a dense sleeve, as a tattoo artist might put it, of meaning.
现在已经有一些讲述皮肤与墨水故事的小说。我特别喜欢莎拉·霍尔(Sarah Hall)的小说《电子米开朗琪罗》(Electric Michelangelo)，它曾入围2004年的布克奖。但关于这个题材却一直没有非虚构类的书，以社会学、评论、历史或回忆录的方式讲述文身艺术家们所谓“花臂”背后的意义,这是文学中的一个空白。
While we await that book, we have Margot Mifflin’s perceptive and moving “Bodies of Subversion: A Secret History of Women and Tattoo,” first published in 1997 but reissued now in a heavily updated and resplendently illustrated third edition.
正当我们期待这种书的时候，就有了玛格特·米弗林(Margot Mifflin)极具洞见而又非常动人的《颠覆的身体：女人与文身秘史》(Bodies of Subversion: A Secret History of Women and Tattoo)，该书初版于1997年，现在又出了第三版，内容进行了大量更新，并补充了丰富的图片资料。
For most of history, tattooing has been a male preoccupation, either a one-fingered salute or an exercise in swagger. Think of Popeye and his twin anchors. Ms. Mifflin had the good idea to examine tattooing in the Western world from a female perspective. Her relatively slim book doesn’t provide a truly wide-angle view, but the insights she brings are insinuating and complex.
在历史上的大部分时期，文身一直为男性所独占，有的是为了挑衅，有的是为了炫耀自夸。想想大力水手和他身上文的两只锚吧。米弗林从女性角度审视西方世界中的文身，这是个好点子。她这本薄薄的书并没有提供大范围的观察，但她的洞察力复杂迂回，十分深刻。
This new edition of “Bodies of Subversion” arrives at the crest of a wave. For the first time, according to a 2012 Harris Poll, American women are more likely to be tattooed than men. Some 23 percent of women have tattoos; 19 percent of men do. They’re no longer rebel emblems, Ms. Mifflin notes. They’re a mainstream fashion choice.
新版《颠覆的身体》恰逢其时。根据2012年哈里斯民意调查(Harris Poll)统计，美国女人比男人更乐于文身。23%的女人有文身，而男人只有19%有文身。文身不再是反叛的象征，米弗林指出。它们已成为主流时尚的选择。
She is mostly an admirer of women’s tattoo culture. Tattoos have been “emblems of empowerment in an era of feminist gains,” she declares. They’re also “badges of self-determination at a time when controversies about abortion rights, date rape and sexual harassment” have made women “think hard about who controls their bodies.”
米弗林基本上是女性文身文化的崇拜者。她宣告，文身已经成为“这个时代女性主义者所赢得权力的象征。”“在这个流产权、约会强奸与性骚扰都存在争议的时代”，文身是“象征着自主权的勋章”，让女人可以“认真思考由谁来控制她们的身体”。
Her book includes striking color photographs of the tattoos some women have had embroidered on their chests after mastectomies. Thanks to recent legislation, tattoo artists can sometimes directly bill insurance companies for this work.
她的书中有鲜艳的文身照片，有些是一些做过乳房切除术的女人文在胸前的。因为最新的立法，文身师有时可以直接把纹身费用送去保险公司报销。
(If only Joplin had known that it would be possible to have your weed and your tattoos covered by insurance, she might have decided to stick around.)
（如果乔普林知道大麻和文身都可以被纳入保险，她或许愿意多活些日子吧。）
But Ms. Mifflin is a flinty observer. She notes that tattoos have the “ability to degrade as well as to enhance, to invoke the sacred and the inane.” She assesses the work of social critics who posit that tattooing can be a political cop-out, a cover for disengagement.
但米弗林也是严厉的观察者。她指出，文身“同时具有贬低身份与抬高身份的作用，既可召来神圣也会引发愚蠢。”一些社会评论家认为文身可以成为政治上的逃避与置身事外的掩护，米弗林对此发表了看法。
These critics argue, she writes, that “tattooing shifts the focus of women’s issues from society to the self; that tattooed women are empowered only in their minds; and that women who find solace in tattoos are no different from women for whom shopping and exercise are substitutes for problem-solving.” Ouch, as the client said to the tattooist.
她写道，这些专家们认为，“文身把女人关注的重点从社会转向自身；纹身的女人只需要获得自己内心的许可，她们在文身中获得的安慰和那些通过购物和锻炼逃避问题的女人没什么两样。”对这种说法只能报以一声惊讶的“哎呀”，就像文身的客人对文身师说的那样。
“Bodies of Subversion” is delicious social history. Tattooing was an upper-class social fad in Europe in the late 19th century. Winston Churchill’s mother had a tattoo of a snake eating its tail (the symbol of eternity) on her wrist. The fad spread to America. In 1897, Ms. Mifflin writes, The New York World estimated that 75 percent of American society women were tattooed, usually in places easily covered by clothing.
《颠覆的身体》是轻松愉悦的社会史。19世纪末期，文身曾是上流社会的风尚。温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的母亲就曾在手腕文上吞吃自己尾巴的蛇，这个图案象征着永恒。这股潮流传到了美国，米弗林写道，1897年，《纽约世界报》(The New York World)估计，在美国，75%的社交界女人都有文身，通常是在容易被衣服掩盖的部位。
By the 1920s, tattooed women were mostly to be seen in freak shows and in circus acts, where they could make more money than tattooed men. They offered, the author avers, “a peep show within a freak show.”
到20世纪20年代，文身的女人主要出现在搞笑演出和马戏表演上，她们能比文身的男人挣到更多钱。作者断言，她们“在搞笑演出上做脱衣秀演出”。
Tattoos lost their appeal for nearly everyone shortly after World War II. One reason was because “tattoos perpetrated in concentration camps had added a ghastly new chapter to tattoo history.”
“二战”后不久，文身在大多数人眼里失去了魅力。原因之一是“集中营里的强制文身为文身史增添了可怕的新篇章”。
Ms. Mifflin’s story spins forward through the tattoo revival of the 1970s, when women with a tattoo or two began to shake the stigma that they were sexually available. She moves attentively through the 1980s and ’90s, the era that gave us Dennis Rodman, the lower-back tattoos now known as tramp stamps and a kudzu forest of copycat tribal tats.
之后米弗林女士的书来到20世纪70年代的文身复兴，身上有一两个文身曾被认为是可以随意性交的标志，那时的女人开始改变这个恶名。之后她详尽地写了80年代和90年代，那个时期有了丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)，如今后腰上的文身被称为“足迹”，罗德曼的“足迹”便是一片藤蔓交织的部落图案。
Her final chapter takes us up to the present day, with assessments of the tattoo artist Kat Von D’s fame and of cultural moments like the popularity of Stieg Larsson’s 2005 novel “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.” Ms. Mifflin appraises the work of famous female tattoists; she argues that the world needs tattoo critics. I hereby nominate Tim Gunn and Lil Wayne as the genre’s Siskel and Ebert.
她的最后一章把我们带回现在，评论了文身师卡特·冯·D(Kat Von D)的名声，以及文身中的那些重要文化时刻，比如斯蒂格·拉森(Stieg Larsson)2005年的小说《龙文身的女孩》(The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo)。米弗林赞美一些著名女文身师的作品，她认为这个世界需要文身评论。我在此推荐蒂姆·关(Tim Gunn)和利尔·韦恩(Lil Wayne)，他们堪称文身评论界的西斯科尔与艾伯特（Siskel and Ebert，指两位著名影评人——译注）。
She is at her best when considering class and tattoos. She quotes an inked-up female doctor who says that it’s easier for professional women to wear them at work: “If you’re working some crummy little desk job with a dress code, it’s a lot harder to walk around wearing your tattoos in the open.”
她写阶层与文身关系的部分最精彩。她引用一位有文身的女医生的话，说明职业女性可以更从容地把文身带入工作场合：“如果你是穿着标准职业装做案头工作的，这比带着暴露部位的文身走来走去要轻松得多。”
Ms. Mifflin deals, too, with the matter of tattoo regret. There’s plenty of that going around. She cites a survey by the Archives of Dermatology stating that 69 percent of tattoo removal requests come from women. Most got stamped at the age of 20 or so. Quoting the same survey, she says about tattoos, “Their marks of uniqueness ‘turned into stigmata.’ ” But the Harris Poll cited above also noted that 86 percent of tattooed people were content with their ink.
米弗林也写了文身之后又后悔的问题，这个问题大量存在。她引用“皮肤档案”(Archives of Dermatology)的一项调查，指出在要求洗去文身的人当中，有69%是女人。其中大都是在20岁左右做的文身。她引用同一项调查指出，文身“本是独特的标记，‘却会变成耻辱的记号’。”但哈里斯民意调查引用同一调查时却指出，86%的文身者对自己的文身很满意。
Those who would shame women with tattoos often utter things like: How are those things going to look when you’re old and wrinkled? On the basis of the photographs of older women with tattoos in this book, I’d say they hold up pretty well.
那些看不起有文身的女人的人们总是说：等你老了，皮肤上长满皱纹时，这东西看起来会怎样？然而根据那些年长女人的文身照片，我得说它们保持得相当不错。
In fact, I’d say they look sort of awesome.
事实上，我想说它们看上去棒极了。