At a party for Ms. magazine’s 40th birthday, the Canadian writer Ann Dowsett Johnston waited for an audience with Gloria Steinem, hoping to cull wisdom for her research on women and alcohol. “Alcohol?” Steinem said to Johnston, looking “dismissive.” “Alcohol is not a women’s issue.”
在《Ms.》杂志的40周年纪念派对上，加拿大作家安·多塞特·约翰斯顿(Ann Dowsett Johnston)和格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)一起等观众，她希望能从这些观众中为自己关于女人和酒精的调查采集一些精彩的素材。“酒精？”斯泰纳姆有点“轻蔑”地对约翰斯顿说，“酒精跟女人无关。”
Steinem may have been hasty. We know that many women report drinking more often in recent decades, that they are drinking more when they do, and that the physiological impact and social meaning of it all is different for women than for men. Women are the engine of growth for the American wine market and are being arrested for drunken driving more often than before, as the numbers for men have remained stable or diminished. (According to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report from 2011, four out of five drunken driving incidents still involve men.) But these are observations, not an agenda. And how much alarm should be invested in those observations is up for debate in both Johnston’s book, “Drink: The Intimate Relationship Between Women and Alcohol,” and “Her Best-Kept Secret: Why Women Drink — and How They Can Regain Control,” by the American journalist Gabrielle Glaser, the second of which makes the more pointed case.
斯泰纳姆的判断可能有点轻率。我们知道，近几十年很多女人说自己喝酒更频繁，喝得也更多，而且女人喝酒的生理影响和社会意义跟男人喝酒不同。女人是美国红酒市场增长的动力，女人因醉驾被捕的情况越来越多，而男人醉驾的数字保持稳定或者略有下降（据美国疾病防治中心2011年的报告，五分之四的醉驾事故仍是男人引起的）。不过，人们只是注意到这些现象，并没有对其进行研究。这些现象应该引起我们多少警觉正是下面这两本书讨论的问题：约翰斯顿的《饮酒：女人和酒精的亲密关系》(Drink: The Intimate Relationship Between Women and Alcohol)以及《她保守得最好的秘密：女人为什么饮酒以及如何控制自己》(Her Best-Kept Secret: Why Women Drink — and How They Can Regain Control)。后者的作者是美国记者加布里埃尔·格拉泽(Gabrielle Glaser)，这本书的论述更尖锐。
One trouble with declaring an epidemic of female drunkenness is that until the very recent past, the private habits of women were poorly chronicled. Johnston turns in part to gauzy memory to make the case that female alcohol consumption is the negative byproduct of modern complexities and the pressure for women to be “perfect.” “I don’t remember my grandmothers suffering from this syndrome,” she asserts. “Women who raised families during the Depression, who baked and gardened and read well; who were fundamentally happy, and felt no pressure to look like stick figures.” Well. Depression-era women’s lives were more circumscribed and less weighted with the pretext of “choice,” sure. But were these women, all in all, “fundamentally happy”? And were they less eager for a fix when they could get it? I’m not convinced.
宣布如今女人酗酒盛行有个问题，那就是，直到最近，女人的个人习惯才被仔细记录。约翰斯顿认为，女人饮酒是现代社会复杂性以及想做“完美”女人的压力带来的负面结果。这一论点部分基于她模糊的记忆。“我不记得我的祖母和外祖母有这样的问题，”她说，“她们在大萧条时期养家，她们擅长烘焙、园艺和阅读；从根本上讲她们是快乐的，完全没有减肥的压力。”呃。当然，在大萧条时期，女人的生活更受限制，没有难以做出“选择”的困扰。但是这些女人真的“从根本上讲是快乐的”吗？如果能够改变，她们不那么渴望改变吗？我不信。
Even during a time of more rigid gender roles, Glaser notes, women were the “principal users of opiates, which were available over the counter and by mail order. In 1897, the Sears, Roebuck catalog offered a kit with a syringe, two needles, two vials of heroin and a handy carrying case for $1.50.” Today’s MommyJuice and Happy Bitch, wines marketed to women, seem prim by comparison.
格拉泽提到，即便在更严格区分性别角色的年代，女人也是“鸦片的主要使用者，当时在药店或通过邮寄都能买到。1897年，在西尔斯(Sears, Roebuck)百货公司，花1.5美元就能买到一个注射器、两个针头、两小瓶海洛因以及一个便携盒”。相比之下，如今以女性为主要销售对象的MommyJuice红酒和Happy Bitch红酒似乎很保守。
Both Johnston and Glaser spend much of their time on the same women those brands aim to reach: educated and upper-­middle-class, many of them mothers of middle age, whose chosen poison is wine, and who spend guilty mornings offloading bottles at the Dumpster. They are interested, in other words, in women like themselves — who happen to make up the at-risk population. (For the record, Glaser is not an alcoholic; Johnston, who threads her personal struggle with alcoholism through her book, has been sober for five years.) “The more educated and well off a woman is, the more likely she is to imbibe,” Glaser writes, citing a Gallup poll from 2010. According to another study published in 2010, white women were more likely to drink than women of other racial backgrounds, though the rates for Latina and black women were rising.
约翰斯顿和格拉泽主要谈论的正是这些红酒品牌针对的那类女性：受过良好教育，中上层人士，其中很多是中年人，有孩子。她们选择的毒药是红酒，早上内疚地把一大堆红酒瓶放进大垃圾桶里。换句话说，她们对跟自己相似的女人感兴趣——她们自己也属于高危人群（郑重声明，格拉泽不酗酒；约翰斯顿在这本书中穿插讲述了自己努力摆脱酒瘾的过程，她已经戒酒五年了）。“受教育程度越高、越富有的女人，越有可能酗酒，”格拉泽写道。她的依据是盖洛普公司2010年做的一个民意调查。根据2010年公布的另一项调查，白人女性比其他种族的女性更容易酗酒，虽然拉美裔和黑人女性的比例在上升。
Some of these women meet the medical definition of addicted, and some don’t. On average, women become intoxicated more quickly than men, thanks to body composition, and a public health professional from Nova Scotia tells Johnston: “Lots of harms are coming from those who are not addicted. Periodic, episodic binge drinking leads to acute and chronic problems in society.” Women’s feelings about their own drinking have also changed. One researcher tells Glaser that in the early 1980s, one in 10 women said she was concerned about her drinking. In 2002 it was one in five.
在这些女人中，有些达到了医学定义的酗酒标准，还有些没有达到。一般来讲，由于身体结构不同，女人比男人更容易喝醉。新斯科舍的一位公共健康教授告诉约翰斯顿：“很多伤害来自那些不上瘾的人。周期性的、偶发的大量饮酒能引起急性和慢性的社会问题。”女人对自己饮酒问题的感觉也发生了变化。一位调查者告诉格拉泽，在20世纪80年代初期，十分之一的女人为自己的饮酒问题担忧。2002年，这个数字是五分之一。
A temptation for many trend journalists and headline writers (a temptation to which Johnston sometimes succumbs) is to see women’s higher rates of alcohol abuse and dependency as the uneasy consequence of female liberation. Or, as New York magazine put it in a 2008 article about young professional women’s binge drinking, “This is the kind of equality nobody was fighting for.” Like anything involving women and regret, alcohol use seems to inspire a desire to rescue.
很多社会潮流记者和头条撰稿人喜欢把女性酗酒和酒精依赖比例的升高看作是女性解放的不良后果（约翰斯顿有时也这么认为）。或者，就像《纽约》(New York)杂志在2008年的一篇关于年轻职业女性酗酒的文章里说的那样，“我们争取的不是这种平等。”就像任何与女人和懊悔有关的问题一样，饮酒似乎激发了人们拯救的欲望。
Johnston’s choice to blend memoir and reporting makes her book feel unfinished, too entangled in raw heartbreak to arrive at clarity. She is apparently unable to resist using the hoary phrase “having it all” (specifically, “More than 40 years after Steinem helped launch a revolution, the debate rages on: can women have it all?”). We get distended passages — “A river runs through our family, through our bloodlines. It curdles our reason, muddles our thinking, seduces us by numbing all pain” — as well as broad statements that sound like the anxious fretting of a party guest seeking to impress, as Johnston worries about staying sober during “the gauntlet of summer evenings at the houseboat, of dinners out, of New Year’s Eve. Of airplanes, of the Bahamas.”
约翰斯顿将回忆和报告结合在一起的写法让人觉得她的书没写完，过多地纠缠于心碎的往事，而未能把事情阐明。她显然总是忍不住使用“拥有一切”这个久远的说法（比如，“在斯泰纳姆协助发起那场革命40多年后，这个争论变得更加激烈：女人能否拥有一切？”）。书中有些段落有点冗长，比如“一条河从我们家族中流过，从我们的血脉中流过。它让我们失去理智，思维混乱，通过麻木所有的痛楚引诱我们”；有些陈述有点宽泛，听起来像一个想在派对上引人注意的客人焦虑的担忧，比如约翰斯顿为需要“在夏日夜晚的游艇上，外出就餐时，新年前夕，在飞机上，在巴哈马群岛”保持清醒而担忧。
Despite its pulpy title, “Her Best-Kept Secret” is the more substantial book, interested in hard facts and nuance rather than hand-wringing. It is strongest when detailing how the American story of addiction and recovery was shaped for and by men.
虽然《她保守得最好的秘密》的书名听起来更花哨，但这本书的内容更充实，对客观事实和细微之处更感兴趣，而不只是表达痛苦。最精彩的是详细指出，在美国，戒酒的方法都是针对男人设计的，设计者也都是男人。
Glaser makes a persuasive case that Alcoholics Anonymous, which enjoys a near monopoly in the recovery sphere, is structurally and functionally unsuited to many women. This was baked into the organization’s early history as a support group for middle-aged, white professional men, at a time when alcoholism was being identified as a disease but when women who drank were still seen as immoral — if they were seen at all.
格拉泽很有说服力地指出，尽管匿名戒酒会(Alcoholics Anonymous)在戒酒界具有近乎垄断的地位，但是无论从结构上还是从功能上都不适合很多女人。因为它最初是为中年白人职业男性设立的互助组织，当时酗酒被认为是一种疾病，而喝酒的女人则被认为是不道德的——当然前提是有人看到她们喝酒。
“In the A.A. worldview, a woman’s most conceivable role was as the wife of an alcoholic,” Glaser writes. The original A.A. handbook included a chapter titled “To Wives,” which counseled: “Patience and good temper are most necessary. . . . If he gets the idea that you are a nag or a killjoy, your chance of accomplishing anything useful may be zero.”
“在匿名戒酒会看来，女人最可能的角色是酒鬼的妻子，”格拉泽写道。匿名戒酒会早期的一本手册里有一章名叫“致妻子们”，里面建议说：“耐心和好脾气是最重要的……如果他认为你婆婆妈妈，令人扫兴，那你不可能实现任何有用的改进。”
Even when the organization did open the tent to women, it did not effectively address their motivations for drinking, nor did it make allowances for “differences in the way women and men recovered,” Glaser writes. “A.A.’s 12-step approach instructs drinkers to surrender their egos to a higher power, but it doesn’t take a gender-­studies expert to know that women who drink too much aren’t necessarily suffering from an excess of hubris.”
格雷泽在书中说，即使在该组织开始接收女性之后，它也没有有效处理女性酗酒动机的问题，也没有考虑到“女人和男人戒酒方法的不同之处”。“匿名戒酒会的12步戒酒法指导酗酒者放弃自大，臣服于更强大的力量，但是不用性别研究专家们说，我们也知道过量饮酒的女人不一定自大。”
With A.A.’s soft-pedaled religiosity comes a prescription for total abstinence, but Glaser reports on evidence-based arguments that some problem drinkers may be able to drink in moderation, another way in which A.A.’s one size does not fit all. There are also blunter risks for women, including predators taking advantage of A.A.’s group dynamic and the profound vulnerability of its members. A former A.A. board member tells Glaser, “Women have been getting raped since A.A. started.” But in an organization decentralized by design, Glaser reports, not much has been done about it.
匿名戒酒会的轻微过度狂热导致的结果是要求彻底戒酒，但是格拉泽提到了一个有证据支持的论点：有些酗酒者也许可能做到适量饮酒——在这种情况下，匿名戒酒会的单一方式并不能适用于所有人。女人们还面临其他一些间接的风险，比如一些猎女者会利用戒酒会的群体力量及其成员的极度脆弱状态。匿名戒酒会的一位前任董事会成员告诉格拉泽，“从匿名戒酒会成立开始，就有女人被强奸的事情发生。”但是格拉泽报告说，这个分散化管理的组织并没有对此采取很多措施。
Glaser acknowledges that alcohol provides a form of self-medication during a time of dizzying changes in women’s lives, but she is skeptical of the notion that alcohol abuse is the price of too much liberation. Her concise assessment: “Women are drinking more because they can.” Indeed, whereas Johnston often casts women as the victims of institutions, Glaser seems more interested in asking why institutions aren’t serving women’s needs better. Either way, what’s at stake is how we respond to the byproducts of equality that fit less comfortably on a placard — including the right to mess up.
格拉泽承认，酒精在女性生活发生巨变的时代能起到某种自我医疗的作用，但她不认为酗酒是女性过于解放的代价。她的看法很简单：“女人们现在喝更多酒是因为她们能喝更多。”约翰斯顿经常把女人看作是体制的受害者，而格拉泽似乎对体制为什么不能更好地为女性服务更感兴趣。不管怎样，最要紧的是我们如何应对平等带来的那些不太适合写进标语的副作用——其中也包括把一切搞砸的权利。