Let’s discuss putting a picture of a woman on the $20 bill. But, first: How many of you remember Ivy Baker Priest?
今天来讨论讨论把一位女性的肖像印到20美元钞票上的话题。但是，首先我要问个问题：大家还有多少人记得艾维·贝克·普里斯特(Ivy Baker Priest)呢？
O.K., nobody. Good thing I’m hard to discourage. But stick with me for a minute, and then we’ll talk about Harriet Tubman versus Andrew Jackson.
好吧，没人记得。好在我不那么容易气馁。请继续听我说一分钟，然后我们将谈到哈丽特·图曼(Harriet Tubman)对阵安德鲁·杰克逊(Andrew Jackson)的事情。
In the 1950s, Ivy Baker Priest was the United States treasurer. This is not to be confused with secretary of the Treasury, a job of far greater power. We have never had a woman running the Treasury Department, but the last 15 treasurers have been female. Try not to be diverted by that factoid. We have work to do.
普里斯特是20世纪50年代美国的司库。不要把这个职位与财政部长搞混了，后者的权力远远更大。美国从未有过女性财政部长，但过去的15位司库都是女性。尽量不要被这事转移了注意力。我们还有正事要说。
The treasurer does get her signature on all our paper currency, and I remember as a child being very impressed when my mother pointed out Priest’s name on a dollar bill. It was, perhaps, the first time I realized a person of my gender could be in a position of public authority without being the queen of England.
这位司库的签名确实印在了所有的纸币上。我记得小时候，母亲有一次说到普里斯特的名字印在一张美元纸币上，这给我留下了非常深刻的印象。或许那是我第一次意识到，一个和我同一性别的人，不需要是英国女王，就可以占据一个具有权威性的公共职位。
The message here is that what goes on our money has an impact. “It’s a reflection of the values in this country,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire. As part of the current debate about putting a woman on one of the bills, she’s introduced legislation that would require the secretary of the Treasury to convene “a panel of citizens” to discuss the whole portrait issue.
从这事可以看出，钞票上面的内容会产生影响。“这是我们国家的价值观的一种反映，”新罕布什尔州民主党参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)说。目前大家正在讨论把一位女性的肖像印在纸币上事情，沙欣也提出了一个法案，要求财政部长召集“公民小组”，全面讨论肖像问题。
“That’s how it was done in the 1920s when Andrew Jackson was put on the $20,” she said.
“20世纪20年代，安德鲁·杰克逊的肖像被印在20美元纸币上的时候，大家就是这么做的，”她说。
Ah, Andrew Jackson. The perfect target. Slave-owner who came to national renown as an Indian-killer. Who, as president, made hatred of the national bank his big issue, while showing a certain fondness for state banks owned by his cronies.
啊，安德鲁·杰克逊。真是个完美的目标。此人是个奴隶主，因为剿杀印第安人在全国拥有了知名度；在担任总统期间，他强烈仇视全国性的银行，但是对于亲信拥有的州银行，则表现得甚为喜爱。
On the positive side, he really loved his wife.
从好的方面来看，他是真心实意爱自己的妻子。
The Treasury Department hasn’t changed a portrait since 1934, when it honored Woodrow Wilson, whose picture you will find on the extremely elusive $100,000 note. All of our paper money feature white men, at least half of them slave-owners.
自从1934年，财政部把伍德罗·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)的肖像印在了极为罕见的10万美元纸币上之后，就再未做过肖像上的调整了。美国所有的纸币上都是白人男性的面孔，其中至少有一半是奴隶主。
A website called Women on 20s recently conducted a poll to find a woman to replace Jackson. It was a great educational tool. (A high school class in Palo Alto, Calif., sent me their huge stack of make-believe money with brand-new faces of both genders. We will have to have a talk with whoever selected Tom Brady.)
一个名为“20元上的女性”(Women on 20s)的网站最近开展了一项民意调查，想找到一位女性来取代杰克逊。这个做法有着很棒的教育意义。（加利福尼亚州帕洛阿尔托的一个高中班级，给我发来了很多纸币效果图，上面的新面孔有男有女，其中还包括汤姆·布雷迪[Tom Brady]。我们得和选他的人谈一谈。）
But about the poll: Harriet Tubman won.
这项调查的结果是：哈丽特胜出。
Pretty perfect. Replace the slave-owner with the escaped slave who returned to the South — again and again and again — to lead other slaves to freedom. These days “freedom” is a much-abused word, which gets applied to everything from capital gains tax cuts to office towers. But Harriet Tubman could get freedom back to where it once belonged.
真是完美。把奴隶主换下，换上一个逃走的奴隶。这个奴隶一次又一次地回到南方，引领其他奴隶奔向自由。近来“自由”这个词常被滥用，从资本利得税削减到办公大厦，各种事情都用上了它。哈丽特可以让这个词回归原位。
So, we’re all happy, right? Harriet Tubman for Andrew Jackson. Best trade ever.
所以，我们都满意了，对不对？用哈丽特换下安德鲁·杰克逊。这是有史以来最好的调整。
Not so fast. We should have guessed it wouldn’t be simple when all we got from the Obama administration was the president’s “pretty good idea.”
别高兴得这么早。我们应该已经猜到了，事情不会那么简单，毕竟我们从奥巴马政府那里得到的一切，无非就是总统口中的“不错的主意”而已。
Changing American paper currency turns out to be a huge ordeal. The main decision-maker is something called the Advanced Counterfeit Deterrence Steering Committee, with representatives from a whole bunch of government entities, including the Secret Service. “Whenever a decision is made, it’s not just done. It takes years of research before the process even gets remotely underway,” said Lydia Washington of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing.
对美国纸币进行修改，其实是一个巨大的考验。主要决策机构名为“高级防伪指导委员会”(Advanced Counterfeit Deterrence Steering Committee)，由来自一大堆政府机构的代表组成，其中还包括特勤局(Secret Service)的代表。“它无论作出何种决定，都不会简单地得到贯彻。在这一过程稍微有点眉目之前，需要进行多年的研究，”铸印局(Bureau of Engraving and Printing)的莉迪亚·华盛顿(Lydia Washington)说。
But the British switch their currency portraits all the time! (Jane Austen is about to supplant Charles Darwin on the £10 note.) Sure, the United States is a global currency. We should regard change as a serious matter. However, not an epic challenge of herculean proportions.
但英国一直都在调整货币上的肖像！（简·奥斯汀[Jane Austen]即将取代10英镑上的查尔斯·达尔文[Charles Darwin]）。当然，美元是一种全球性货币。我们应该把修改视为一件大事。但是话说回来，这也不是什么史诗般的艰巨挑战。
The government did start on a $10 bill redesign in 2013, and the process being what the process is, the effort has only just begun to twitch. The plan is to add a tactile feature that will allow blind people to identify the value of the currency.
2013年时，政府确实开始对10美元纸币进行重新设计，但由于这个过程的复杂性，直到现在才刚刚看到点行动。该计划是增加触觉功能，让盲人能识别纸币的面值。
On behalf of the blind, I have a question here: What good is being able to identify a $10 bill if you can’t identify a $1 or a $5 or a $20? By the time all the paper currency gets fixed, it’ll be the 22nd century.
我想代表盲人问一个问题：如果你识别不出1美元、5美元或20美元的纸币，只能识别出10美元，意义何在呢？当所有纸币的面值都可以识别时，时间已经到了22世纪。
Also, the $10 bill pictures Alexander Hamilton. I suppose we could give him up to the cause, but have you seen the musical “Hamilton?” It will definitely make you feel as though we should hang onto him for a while.
而且，10美元纸币上是亚历山大·汉密尔顿(Alexander Hamilton)的肖像。我觉得我们可以同时也把他换下来，但是你看过音乐剧《汉密尔顿》吗？它绝对会让你觉得应该继续保留此人的肖像一段时间。
All in all, it’s clear we’ve got a lot of work to do. Maybe Ivy Baker Priest understood what a heavy lift change is when she said women didn’t care about having their pictures on money “as long as we get our hands on it.”
总而言之，很明显我们有很多工作要做。也许艾维·贝克·普里斯特明白这种变化有多么费劲，她曾说过，女性不关心纸币上是否有她们的肖像，“只要我们有钱就可以了”。