WASHINGTON — At a small luncheon last July in an elegant downtown restaurant, two well-known Washington feminists came to celebrate Cindy Whitehead, a senior executive at a pharmaceutical firm that is developing a pill to revive women’s sex drive.
华盛顿——去年7月，华盛顿的两位著名女权主义者在市中心一个环境优雅的餐厅举办的小型午餐会上，对辛迪·怀特黑德(Cindy Whitehead)表示了赞扬。怀特黑德是一家制药公司高管，该公司正在研发能增强女性性欲的药物。
In some ways, it was an unlikely gathering. The feminists, Susan Scanlan and Audrey Sheppard, had worked on women’s issues for years, including on Capitol Hill and, in Ms. Sheppard’s case, at the Food and Drug Administration. Ms. Whitehead, many years their junior, had managed brands, sales and marketing strategies for pharmaceutical companies.
从某些方面来看，此次集会让人意想不到。这两名女性分别是苏珊·斯坎伦(Susan Scanlan)和奥德丽·谢泼德(Audrey Sheppard)。数年来，她们一直致力于与女性问题相关的工作——其中包括在国会采取行动；在谢泼德的案例中，则是在美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）采取行动。比她们小很多岁的怀特黑德曾在制药公司担任品牌、销售和营销策略管理者。
But they had a common cause — getting the drug approved — a mission they said they believed in, but also one that the feminists were getting paid to promote. The occasion was captured in a splashy photo spread on the website of a Washington lifestyle magazine.
但是，她们有一项共同的事业——让这种药物得到批准。她们说自己对这项使命拥有信心，而且这些女权主义者还会因为对它进行宣传而获得酬劳。在一本华盛顿生活方式杂志的网站上传播的引人注目的照片，记录了此次活动的瞬间。
The women, together with a public relations company, Blue Engine Message & Media, are central players in the unusual story of how a female libido pill that had been twice rejected by the F.D.A. achieved a surprise success on June 4, when a panel of experts recommended the agency approve it. The F.D.A. has not yet made a final decision. But by lending their heft to a campaign for the drug, the feminists won the support of much of the nonprofit women’s health community in Washington, galvanizing it with the charge that a refusal to approve the drug would be sexist.
6月4日，一个专家组建议FDA批准这种药物，这种曾两度被FDA否决的女性性欲药物于是取得了出人意料的成功。在这个不同寻常的故事中，前述女性和公关公司蓝色引擎讯息及媒体(Blue Engine Message & Media)发挥了核心作用。FDA尚未做最后决定。不过，这些女权主义者通过在关于这种药物的运动中发挥自身影响力，赢得了华盛顿非营利女性健康团体中大部分人的支持，并声称如果拒绝批准这种药物，就是一种性别歧视行为。
Less noticed were women’s groups that refused to join the campaign, contending that waving the flag of gender bias would undermine what should be an impartial process based on science. Among them were the National Women’s Health Network and Our Bodies Ourselves. Many believed the pill’s risks — fatigue, fainting, dizziness and nausea — outweighed the benefits, which they said were meager. (Women taking the drug had about one more satisfying sexual event per month than women receiving a placebo.)
拒绝加入这场运动的女性团体受到的关注较少。这些团体辩称，挥舞性别歧视的大旗，将损害本应以科学为根据的公正过程。国家妇女健康网络(National Women’s Health Network)和“我们的身体我们自己”(Our Bodies Ourselves)就包括在内。许多人都认为，这种药物的风险——疲劳、昏厥、眩晕和恶心——比好处更大，它的好处则要小很多。（与使用安慰剂的女性相比，服用这种药物的女性每个月大约要多一次令人满意的性活动。）
The campaign divided the normally cohesive women’s health community, which has long fought together for access to birth control and for abortion rights.
这场运动使通常关系密切的女性健康团体发生了分歧。长期以来，这个团体一直在共同争取避孕途径和堕胎权利。
“From my perspective, that was a really inappropriate strategy, and I really didn’t like it,” said Susan F. Wood, director of the Jacobs Institute of Women’s Health at George Washington University. She said the company had “made the rounds,” asking for the support of women’s health organizations, including hers. “There are some very important issues around ensuring that women get studied and women’s health needs are addressed,” she said. “This trivializes that work.”
“在我看来，这真是一种不恰当的策略，我真的不喜欢它，” 乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)雅各布斯女性健康研究所(Jacobs Institute of Women’s Health)主任苏珊·F·伍德(Susan F. Wood)说。她说公司已经开始“四处走动”，请求女性健康组织提供支持，其中也包括她的。“为了保证女性问题能得到研究，女性的健康需求能得到处理，还有些非常重要的问题有待解决，”她说。“这件事降低了这项工作的重要性。”
Women hold many senior roles at the F.D.A., including the director of its Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Dr. Janet Woodcock. Professor Wood herself served as assistant commissioner for women’s health at the F.D.A. but quit in 2005 over delays in approval of Plan B emergency contraception as an over-the-counter medicine.
FDA有很多重要职务都由女性担任，药品评价与研究中心(Center for Drug Evaluation and Research)主任珍妮特·伍德科克博士(Dr. Janet Woodcock)就是其中之一。伍德科克曾在FDA担任女性健康助理专员，但是因为B计划紧急避孕药被批准为非处方药物的进程被推迟，她于2005年辞职。
Advocates who support the libido drug, flibanserin, say they believe it has the potential to improve the lives of millions of American women and strongly reject the charge that they were in any way co-opted by the company. They say passionate supporters are needed to move impassive federal agencies to action, and cite Act Up, which pushed the F.D.A. on AIDS drugs in the 1980s.
这种性欲药叫做氟立班丝氨(Flibanserin)，支持它的活动人士称，他们认为它有潜力改善数以百万计的美国女性的生活，并大力反驳了公司在以某种方式指使他们的说法。他们表示，他们需要热情的支持者来使无动于衷的联邦机构采取行动，还提到了“Act Up”，该组织于上世纪80年代敦促FDA采取了针对艾滋病药物的行动。
“I’ve been accused of bullying the F.D.A., and I say, ‘No, it’s called advocacy,’ ” said Sally Greenberg, the executive director of the National Consumers League, who took part in the campaign for the drug’s approval.
“我曾被指控在欺负FDA，但我说，‘不，这叫做倡议活动，’”国家消费者联盟(National Consumers League)的执行董事莎莉·格林伯格(Sally Greenberg)说。她也参加了促使该药物得到批准的运动。
The drug company, Sprout Pharmaceuticals, was formed by Ms. Whitehead and her husband, Robert Whitehead, after the company that previously owned flibanserin gave up on it following the first F.D.A. rejection in 2010. The F.D.A. made its ruling after a panel of outside experts voted unanimously against the drug, saying it was not very effective and had side effects.
2010年，FDA首次拒绝批准氟立班丝氨，于是之前拥有它的公司便放弃了它。之后，怀特黑德和丈夫罗伯特·怀特黑德(Robert Whitehead)共同创立了制药公司斯普劳特制药(Sprout Pharmaceuticals)。当时，一组外部专家一致投票反对此药，称它并非十分有效，而且还有副作用，于是FDA随后做出了决定。
Ms. Whitehead said she was inspired by video testimonials from women in the clinical trials who were told that the drug was being abandoned.
怀特黑德说，临床试验中的女性所发表的视频感言给她带来了启发。这些女性被告知，这种药物将被摒弃。
“I immediately saw that for the women whose lives and relationship had been meaningfully improved over the course of the trial, this news was devastating,” she said in an email.
她在一封电子邮件中说，“我立即看到，对于那些生活质量和伴侣关系都在试验过程中得到了有意义的改善的女性而言，这个消息非常糟糕。”
Groups involved in the campaign say Ms. Whitehead is very committed to women’s issues. She took over as chief executive of Sprout from her husband in January. Some critics speculate that the company wanted a woman as the face of the brand. Other than Ms. Whitehead, the company’s board of directors is entirely male.
参与这一运动的团体表示，怀特黑德非常关注女性问题。1月，她接替丈夫担任斯普劳特首席执行官。有些批评人士猜测，这是因为公司希望让一名女性作为该品牌的脸面。除怀特黑德以外，公司董事会全部由男性组成。
The Whiteheads’ previous enterprise, Slate Pharmaceuticals, sold an implantable testosterone pellet for men. In 2010, it received a warning letter from the F.D.A. saying the company was promoting unapproved uses of the treatment, overstating its effectiveness and minimizing its side effects.
怀特黑德之前的公司Slate制药(Slate Pharmaceuticals)出售一种供男性使用的植入式睾酮胶囊。2010年，该公司收到FDA发出的警告信，FDA称该公司推广使用未经批准的治疗方法，夸大疗效，隐瞒副作用。
Terry O’Neill, president of the National Organization for Women, said she took notice of flibanserin after the F.D.A. refused to approve it a second time in 2013. That rejection struck many of the groups as unfair in light of what they said was the speedy approval of Viagra in the 1990s.
全国妇女组织(National Organization of Women)主席特里·奥尼尔(Terry O'Neill)表示，她在FDA于2013年第二次拒绝批准氟立班丝氨后注意到这种药物。很多组织认为拒绝批准是一个不公平的决定，他们称万艾可(Viagra)在20世纪90年代很快就获得批准。
“I honestly think what’s going on here is the cultural context in which we live and the F.D.A. operates is that women’s sexual pleasure is just not that important,” Ms. O’Neill said.
奥尼尔表示，“坦白说，我觉得问题在于我们所生活的、FDA所处的文化环境，在这种文化环境中，女性的性快感没有那么重要。”
In early 2014, a group of women’s organizations, including Ms. O’Neill’s, met with Dr. Woodcock and other officials at the F.D.A.’s headquarters in Silver Spring, Md.
2014年初，包括奥尼尔领导的组织在内的一些女性组织在马里兰州银泉FDA总部与伍德科克及其他官员进行会面。
It was not clear what role, if any, the company had in the trip. Ms. Scanlan, who was among the participants, said they “went out there under our own steam.” Ms. Greenberg said her nonprofit group had paid for the bus. Dr. Anita Clayton, a paid consultant for Sprout who helped in the drug’s testing and who is a psychiatrist at the University of Virginia, said she had accompanied the participants as a medical expert.
目前尚不清楚，该公司在此行中扮演什么角色（如果有的话）。参与会议的斯坎伦表示，她们“自己去的那儿”。格林伯格表示，她所在的非政府组织支付了大巴费用。Sprout制药公司的付费顾问、弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)精神病学家安妮塔·克兰顿(Anita Clayton)表示，她作为医学专家陪同参与者参加会议。克兰顿曾帮助对该药物进行测试。
The groups came away with the impression that their concerns had been dismissed and wrote a letter to Dr. Woodcock to say so. Ms. Scanlan, chairwoman emeritus of the National Council of Women’s Organizations, said they had told the company what happened.
这些团体带着这样一种印象离开，即她们的担忧被忽略，她们给伍德科克博士写信表达了这种想法。全国妇女组织联合会(National Council of Women’s Organizations)名誉主席斯坎伦表示，她们已经告诉该公司发生了什么事情。
“We said: ‘This is pure inequity. This is outrageous,’ ” Ms. Scanlan said. “And they said, ‘Well, maybe you could do a campaign or something.’ ”
“我们说:‘这绝对是不公平的。令人无法容忍，’”斯坎伦说。“他们说，‘好吧，或许你们可以搞个活动什么的。’”
The public relations company, Blue Engine Message & Media, said it had been approached about starting a campaign by Ms. Sheppard — who directed the office of women’s health at the F.D.A. during the Clinton administration and who was a paid consultant for Sprout — together with other advocates. (Ms. Sheppard said that she had not put it together, but that it had evolved from discussion among the women’s groups.)
公关公司蓝色引擎讯息及媒体表示，谢泼德曾就发起活动一事与该公司接洽，谢泼德在克林顿政府担任FDA女性健康部门的负责人，她曾为斯普劳特公司提供付费顾问服务。（谢泼德表示，她没有组织，活动是由女性团体的讨论发展而来的。）
The resulting nonprofit, Even the Score, set up a Facebook page that featured photographs of prominent feminists, and a Twitter account that provided a stream of zippy commentary. Ms. Scanlan, who had recently retired and was not representing any particular organization, became its chairwoman.
由此而来的非营利性的平分运动(Even the Score)创建了Facebook主页，展示了一些知名女权主义者的照片，还设立Twitter账户，提供了一系列的敏锐评论。最近退休且不代表任何特定组织的斯坎伦成为该运动的主席。
Jaime Horn, an employee of Blue Engine who serves as a spokeswoman for Even the Score, called it an organic effort by advocacy organizations committed to “providing a voice” to the women who experience a lack of sexual desire. She said Even the Score did not disclose individual contributions.
蓝色引擎公司员工、平分运动女发言人杰米·霍恩(Jaime Horn)称这是一些倡导组织自发开展的行动，这些组织致力于为缺乏性欲的女性“提供发言权”。她表示，平分运动没有透露个人的捐款情况。
Ms. Scanlan, who has worked for women’s causes since the 1970s, said she spends about 10 hours a month on Even the Score, though in some months she put in 40 or 50 hours.
从20世纪70年代开始致力于女性事业的斯坎伦表示，她每个月抽出10个小时的时间为平分运动工作，但在有些月份会投入40或50个小时。
She said she believed in the drug’s potential, and was not doing it for the money, which she described as an “extremely modest stipend.”
她表示，她相信这种药物的潜力，并不是为了钱而开展运动，她称“报酬很少”。
“I’m not going to be taking any vacation to the Riviera on it,” she said.
她说，“我靠这些钱可没法到里维埃拉度假。”
Beyond the luncheon, which took place at the restaurant Ris, Even the Score paid for dozens of people, including patients, to get to a public workshop on female sexual dysfunction at the F.D.A. last fall. It also gave them teal scarves.
除了在Ris餐厅举行的午餐会外，平分运动去年秋季还出钱帮助数十人前往FDA参加女性性功能障碍公共研讨会，其中包括一些患者。该组织还为她们发放青绿色的围巾。
At the same time, Dr. Clayton, the Sprout consultant, wrote opinion pieces in The Huffington Post making the case for low female libido as a medical condition.
与此同时，斯普劳特公司的顾问克兰顿在《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)发表评论文章，说女性性欲低下是一种疾病。
Daniel Carpenter, a scholar of regulatory policy at Harvard University, called the campaign for the drug’s approval “the most extreme case of companies using social lobbying to get a drug approved in years.”
哈佛大学(Harvard University)监管政策学者丹尼尔·卡彭特(Daniel Carpenter)称，这场推动药物获得批准的运动是“多年以来公司利用社会游说活动争取药物审批的最极端例子”。
He disputed the advocates’ analogy to the AIDS movement, saying Act Up was as suspicious of the drug companies as it was of the F.D.A. “How independent are these groups?” he asked. “Would they turn their backs on the company if the price was really high or if there were safety issues? If all they are doing is greasing the wheels to approval, it’s kind of one-sided.”
他对活动人士将该运动与艾滋病运动做类比的做法提出质疑，称Act Up对医药公司和FDA都心存怀疑。“这些团体的独立性有多强？”他问道。“如果价格真的很高，或者存在安全问题，它们会背弃该公司吗？如果它们的目的就是要促使药物顺利获得批准，那就有些片面了。”
Ms. Whitehead said it was premature to discuss how much the drug would cost, because it has not been approved.
怀特黑德表示，现在讨论药物的价格为时过早，因为它还没有获得通过。
Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research, which opposed the drug’s approval, said the agency and its panels were not immune from public controversy.
美国国家健康研究中心(National Center for Health Research)主任戴安娜·扎克尔曼(Diana Zuckerman)表示，FDA及其委员会一样要面对公众的辩论。该中心反对批准该药物。
“When a panel gets confronted with a lot of passionate voices from people who have been harmed, they very frequently pick what they think is a compromise path,” she said.
她说，“当一个小组委员会面临受到伤害的民众的愤怒指责时，他们通常会选择在他们看来在妥协的路线。”
Ms. Horn of Even the Score strongly disputes the contention that the campaign put pressure on the agency.
对于该活动向FDA施压的说法，平分运动的霍恩表达了强烈不满。
“People who claim that the F.D.A. advisory committee’s decision was based solely on a public-relations campaign are giving us too much credit,” she said in an email. “If the science didn’t support approval, the F.D.A.-appointed advisory committee of doctors, clinicians and other safety experts wouldn’t have approved it.”
“那些声称FDA咨询委员会仅仅根据公关活动就做出决定的人，太看得起我们了，”她在邮件中表示。“如果科学不支持批准，由博士、临床医生及其他安全专家组成的FDA制定咨询委员会就不会批准。”
Painting the F.D.A. as sexist did not sit well with some potential supporters. Stephen T. Wills, the chief financial officer of Palatin Technologies, which is also developing a drug to increase women’s libido, said the company asked this month that its name be removed from Even the Score’s website.
将FDA描述为性别歧视者，引发一些潜在支持者的不满。帕拉丁技术公司(Palatin Technologies)也在开发一种增强女性性欲的药物，该公司首席财务官斯蒂芬·T·威尔斯(Stephen T. Wills)表示，该公司本月要求平分运动网站删除该公司的名字。
“We were just not comfortable with that approach,” he said. Mr. Wills said Palatin had declined several requests to contribute to Even the Score, including one for $5,000 or $10,000 to pay for patients to travel to the F.D.A. workshop last October.
他说，“我们就是不喜欢那种方式。”威尔斯表示，帕拉丁多次拒绝向平分运动捐款的请求，其中有一次是要求捐赠5000美元（约合3.1万元人民币）至1万美元，用于支付去年10月前往FDA研讨会的患者的出行开销。
As the panel met on June 4, supporters of the drug packed the audience. Many people wanted to testify, the vast majority in favor of the drug.
小组委员会在6月4日会面时，观众中有很多这种药物的支持者。很多人想要作证，其中绝大多数都支持该药物。
A few women talked about how the loss of libido had made them feel broken and had threatened their marriages. And one woman said that when she tried flibanserin in a clinical trial, it was as if “a light switch had been turned on.”
几名女性讨论了缺乏性欲如何让她们感到崩溃，威胁到婚姻的问题。一名女性表示，当她在临床试验中使用氟立班丝氨时，感觉好像“一盏灯被点亮了”。
There was loud applause when some people spoke in favor of the drug, and when the vote was announced at the end. There was less applause for people testifying against approval.
当有人发言表示支持该药物时，以及当最终宣布投票结果时，观众席中爆发热烈的掌声。而当有人作证反对批准时，掌声就少很多。