EDMONTON, Alberta — China hosted the inaugural Women’s World Cup in 1991 and put on the Cup again in 2007. It finished second to the United States at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics and in the 1999 World Cup. And its star forward at the time, Sun Wen, joined with the American Michelle Akers in being named the greatest female soccer players of the 20th century.
埃德蒙顿阿尔伯塔——中国在1991年举办了首届女足世界杯的比赛，并于2007年再次举办这一赛事。在1996年的美国亚特兰大奥运会和1999年的世界杯比赛中，中国都获得了亚军。那时的明星前锋孙雯和美国的米歇尔·阿科尔斯(Michelle Akers)被共同誉为20世纪最伟大的女足运动员。
But that golden era of women’s soccer in the world’s most populous nation has faded. China did not even qualify for the 2011 Women’s World Cup or the 2012 London Olympics. And as it opens the 2015 World Cup on Saturday against host Canada here, China no longer has the best women’s team in Asia, much less the world.
不过，世界第一人口大国的女足黄金时代已经渐渐远去。中国甚至没能打入2011年女足世界杯，也未能打入2012年的伦敦奥运会。本周六，当中国在2015女足世界杯的首场比赛中对阵东道主加拿大的时候，中国女足已经不再是亚洲最好的球队，在全世界就更谈不上了。
The reasons officials and coaches cite for the decline are varied. For starters, other Asian countries have caught up in terms of resources put into women’s soccer. Japan is the reigning World Cup champion. Australia, which plays in the Asian region, is ranked ahead of China, and so is North Korea, though it was barred from this year’s Cup because of a doping scandal.
官员和教练为女足的衰落给出了各种各样的原因。首先，其他亚洲国家在女子足球的资源投入方面跟上来了。日本是卫冕冠军；在亚洲地区比赛的澳大利亚排名比中国靠前；因兴奋剂丑闻而无法参加今年世界杯的朝鲜，排名也在中国前面。
China has startlingly few female soccer players, given its population of 1.4 billion, which in part reflects a historic emphasis on elite sports for medals instead of grass-roots sports for everyone.
在14亿人口的基础上，中国的女子足球运动员少得惊人。这在一定程度上反映了中国在历史上重视能带来奖牌的精英运动，而不是面向大众的草根运动。
The country has only 6,000 to 7,000 registered female players above age 12, according to the Chinese soccer federation and the Asian Football Confederation. The true number of players could be four or five times that, officials said, but even if it were 100 times, it would be dwarfed by the 1.7 million registered female players in the United States.
据中国足协和亚洲足球联合会(Asian Football Confederation)介绍，中国登记在册的12岁以上的女子足球运动员仅为6000到7000名。官员称，真实的人数可能是它的四五倍，但即便是100倍，和美国的170万注册女子足球运动员相比也一样相形见绌。
“That’s part of the problem,” said Tony DiCicco, who coached the United States to the 1999 Women’s World Cup title and declined an offer to coach China’s national team in 2004. “They’re just not getting enough players out to play the game of soccer.”
“这是问题的一部分，”带领美国问鼎1999年女足世界杯冠军的教练托尼·迪西科(Tony DiCicco)说。2004年，他拒绝了担任中国国家队主教练的邀请。“他们完全没有足够的球员来踢球。”
Many parents are reluctant to put their children into sports in a nation with an intensely competitive education system and a one-child policy, even though that policy has been relaxed, Sun, the former star, said.
球星孙雯表示，许多父母不愿让自己的孩子从事体育运动，因为中国的教育体系竞争十分激烈，而且还实施了独生子女政策——尽管这项政策在放宽。
“That’s a big concern for parents,” Sun said in a telephone interview from Shanghai, where she leads the technical and youth departments of the city’s soccer association. “If you have four or five children, maybe you say, ‘O.K., I support one to be a great athlete.’ But with only one child, that is a problem.”
“这是家长考虑的一个大问题，”孙雯在上海接受电话采访时说。她目前担任上海足协青少年技术部的负责人。“如果你家有四五个孩子，可能会说，‘好，我支持其中一个去当出色的运动员。’但是在只有一个孩子的情况下，这就成了问题。”
Many schools, too, have been reluctant to promote sports, in part because of fear of injury, said Fan Yunjie, another former star player.
另一名当年的球星范运杰则表示，许多学校也不愿意提倡体育运动，一定程度上是因为担心孩子受伤。
“With the one-child policy, children get overprotected,” Fan said in a telephone interview from Zhengzhou, China, where she directs grass-roots and youth soccer development for Henan Province. “Parents and schools are afraid their children will get hurt. They both don’t want to take the responsibility for that. They don’t want to get into any trouble.”
“由于独生子女政策，孩子们受到了过度保护，”身处郑州的范运杰在接受电话采访时说。她在那里负责河南省的草根足球和青少年足球运动的发展。“家长和学校担心孩子会受伤。他们都不想负这个责任，不想惹任何麻烦。”
The slide in women’s soccer in China, and the mediocrity of China’s men’s national team, are considered a national embarrassment, both athletically and politically, in a country with the world’s second largest economy.
中国女足的倒退，以及男足国家队的平庸，被视为这个世界第二大经济体的耻辱——在体育和政治方面皆是如此。
Such sporting disappointment has drawn the concern of China’s top government officials, including its president, Xi Jinping, an ardent soccer fan who has said that he wants China’s men’s team to qualify for the World Cup again, for China to host the tournament and, eventually, to win it. So far, the men’s team, ranked 82nd in the world, has participated in only one World Cup, in 2002. It did not score a goal in its three games.
这项运动带来的失望情绪，引起了包括国家主席习近平在内的中国高层政府官员的关心。作为狂热球迷的习近平曾表示，他希望中国男足能再获世界杯参赛资格，中国将来能承办世界杯，并最终夺冠。目前，中国男足的世界排名为第82位，只在2002年参加过一次世界杯。当时，他们在三场比赛中一球未进。
“The results of China’s national teams in the world are not good,” Fan said. “It hurts the fans’ hearts. They have high hopes, but they always get hurt.”
“中国国家队在世界上表现不佳，”范运杰说。“这伤了球迷的心。他们期望很高，却总是受伤。”
A series of reforms, begun in 2009 and accelerated late last year, is intended to gradually lift men’s and women’s soccer by making the sport a mandatory part of physical education for Chinese students and a priority at 20,000 schools by 2017.
始于2009年的一系列改革于去年底开始加速。这些改革旨在逐渐增强中国男足和女足的实力，具体方式是，把足球运动列为中国学生体育教育的必修课，并在2017年扶持建设两万所足球特色学校。
China must overcome a “defective system” and “must develop and revitalize soccer to ensure we are a strong nation of sports,” a government reform group said in a statement in February, according to Xinhua, China’s official news agency.
据中国官方媒体新华社报道，一个政府改革领导小组在2月份宣布，中国必须克服“机制弊端”，而“发展振兴足球是建设体育强国的必然要求。”
While the United States, Germany and Sweden have maintained their primacy in women’s soccer over the past 25 years, cultural advantages enjoyed by early powers like China and Norway have subsided as the sport has grown in popularity around the globe. The 2015 World Cup has expanded from 16 to 24 teams, and, worldwide, women’s participation in soccer has increased by 20 percent since 2000.
过去25年，美国、德国和瑞典一直在女足运动中保持领先地位，而在这项运动在世界各地越来越受欢迎的同时，中国和挪威等早期强国却逐渐丧失了自身的女足文化优势。2015年世界杯的参赛队伍从16支增加到了24支，而从世界范围来看，自2000年以来，女性参与足球运动的人口增加了20%。
“China, like the U.S. and others, was early on the scene in terms of dedicating resources and emphasis,” said Sunil Gulati, the president of the United States Soccer Federation and a member of the executive committee of FIFA, soccer’s world governing body. “The landscape has changed dramatically for a lot of countries.”
“与美国等国一样，中国在投入资源和重视程度方面较早地采取了行动，”美国足球协会(United States Soccer Federation)主席、世界足球管理机构FIFA的执行委员会成员苏尼尔·古拉提(Sunil Gulati)说。“对于许多国家而言，情况发生了巨大变化。”
In China, some young female players now even decline when asked to join the national team, Sun said.
孙雯表示，在中国，有些年轻的女球员被邀请加入国家队时，甚至会婉拒。
She added: “The environment has totally changed. When we were players, it was very honorable. You were very proud of this.”
她还表示：“环境已经完全变了。我们踢球的时候，这是一种荣耀。你会引以为荣。”
Today’s players “know that football is not forever,” Sun said. “They cannot totally focus on this. But to be on the top level, you have to concentrate without any interruption.”
现在的球员“知道足球不是长久之计，”孙雯说。“她们不能完全投入。但要想达到顶级水平，必须不受干扰、专心致志。”
Government financing has also decreased in favor of Western-style development and corporate sponsorships, which has hurt the women’s game, given its lack of widespread popularity, Sun said.
政府也减少了资金，借鉴西方的发展模式并寻求企业赞助。孙雯说，这让没有获得广泛支持的女子足球受到损害。
Youth soccer, the quality of play in the Chinese women’s professional league and the availability of coaches have been affected, she said. The women’s national team has had frequent turnover in head coaches — 11 between 2001 and 2011, according to Xinhua.
她表示，足球青训、中国女子职业联盟的比赛水准，以及可用教练的数量也因此受到影响。根据新华社报道，中国女足国家队经常更换主教练，从2001年到2011年换了11个人。
Susan Brownell, an expert on Chinese sports at the University of Missouri, St. Louis, said China’s most popular soccer commentator criticized the food and conditions at a training center for elite women’s players last December, blaming in part the private company that runs the center.
密苏里大学圣路易斯分校(University of Missouri-St. Louis)的中国运动专家苏珊‧布劳内尔(Susan Brownell)表示，中国最受欢迎的足球解说员曾在去年12月批评一个高水平女子球员训练中心的饮食与环境，并将责任部分归咎于经营训练中心的私营公司。
“Given that men’s soccer is China’s most successfully commercialized sport, the fact that women’s soccer went into decline, reportedly due to inattention from the Chinese Football Association and the lack of public interest, illustrates that market-based sport tends to favor men and neglect women,” Brownell said in an email message.
布劳内尔在邮件中表示，“鉴于男子足球是中国商业化最成功的运动，以及人们所说的，女足的衰落源于中国足协的怠慢和公众的淡漠，这说明以市场为导向的运动倾向于支持男性，忽略女性。”
Tom Byer, an American consultant, will begin training 5,000 to 6,000 physical education teachers in China on the finer points of soccer this summer. He said it was important to get boys and girls to develop technical skills at a young age, instead of just kicking the ball around.
美国顾问汤姆‧拜尔(Tom Byer)将于今年夏季在中国对5000至6000名体育老师进行足球细节方面的培训。他表示应该从小开发男孩、女孩的技术技能，而不只是踢球玩，这很重要。
A cultural change toward soccer is required, Byer said, from principals to teachers to parents. He plans to spread the message through television and apps for smartphones and tablets, perhaps even through comic books.
拜尔表示，需要改变对足球培养的观念，从校长到老师、家长都要改变。他计划利用电视、智能手机及平板电脑的应用程序，甚至是漫画书来传播这种信息。