LONDON — One way or another, Britain will have its second female prime minister.
伦敦——无论如何，英国都将迎来第二任女首相。
The governing Conservative Party took another step on Thursday in its process to replace Prime Minister David Cameron, winnowing the contest to two candidates — Theresa May, the home secretary, and Andrea Leadsom, the junior energy minister.
周四，执政的保守党(Conservative Party)在为现任首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)寻找继任者的过程中又迈出了一步，将争夺缩小到了两名候选人：内政大臣特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)和能源部副部长安德烈娅·利德索姆(Andrea Leadsom)。
When the contest is concluded in September, one of them will become the first woman to lead Britain since Margaret Thatcher, also a Conservative, stepped down in 1990. The winner will take over as Britain grapples with how to carry through with its stunning decision last month to withdraw from the European Union, a choice that Cameron opposed and led him to announce that he would step aside once the party chose a successor.
这场争夺将于九月结束。届时，其中一人将成为英国自玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)之后的首位女性领导人。1990年下台的撒切尔也是保守党。获胜者将接过首相之位，而此刻的英国正面临一项难题：上月做出的退出欧盟的决定该如何实行。卡梅伦反对这一选择，并促使他宣布一旦保守党选出继任者，他便下台。
May quietly supported remaining in the European Union but has since said that she respects the outcome of the June 23 referendum and that she will seek the best possible deal for Britain as it negotiates its withdrawal from the bloc. She dominated the first stage of the selection process, in which the field is narrowed to two candidates through voting by the 330 Conservative members of the House of Commons.
梅一直在低调地支持留在欧盟，但事后则表示尊重6月23日那场公投的结果，称她将在英国就退出欧盟展开谈判时，尽可能为英国争取最好的协议。在选拔的第一阶段，她占据着优势。在这个过程中，议会下院的330名保守党议员通过投票，将人选缩小到两名候选人。
May, 59, remains the favorite, but in the next round will be judged by a different constituency: registered party members, many of whom were vociferous supporters of leaving the European Union. Conservative Party headquarters has for days been unable or unwilling to disclose how many registered voters there are, but the House of Commons Library said that the latest published figure of 149,800 stems from December 2013. Voters will mail in their ballots, with the winner, to be announced Sept. 9, becoming party leader and prime minister without having to call a general election.
现年59岁的梅呼声依然最高，但下一轮将由另一群选民决定：登记在册的保守党成员。他们中的很多人都强烈支持退出欧盟。近日来，保守党总部一直无法或不愿透露已登记选民的人数，但下议院图书馆(House of Commons Library)表示，已公布的距今最近的数字是14.98万，数据来自2013年12月。选民将邮寄选票，相关机构将于9月9日宣布获胜者。获胜者将成为保守党领袖和英国首相，无需举行大选。
Leadsom, 53, the runner-up in Thursday’s round of voting by members of Parliament, was a vocal advocate of leaving the European Union. In finishing second and qualifying for the final round, she eliminated Michael Gove, the justice secretary, who helped lead the “Leave” campaign. Gove had announced his candidacy just before the deadline last week, and in doing so torpedoed the hopes of his partner in the Leave campaign, Boris Johnson, the former London mayor, to succeed Cameron.
在周四那一轮下议员投票中，现年53岁的利德索姆名列第二。她大力支持退出欧盟。以第二名的成绩晋级最后一轮的她，淘汰了参与领导“退出”阵营的司法大臣迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)。戈夫上周赶在最后期限之前宣布竞选。此举使他在“退出”阵营的合作伙伴、前伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)接替卡梅伦的希望落空。
May holds one of the highest-profile posts in the British government and is considered the more experienced candidate — serious and competent but lacking charisma. Leadsom, who had a low profile and entered government as a junior minister only in 2014, has been accused of inflating her résumé. As recently as three years ago, she supported continued British membership in the European Union.
梅担任的是英国政府最重要的职位之一。她被认为经验更丰富——态度严肃且能力一流，但缺乏个人魅力。低调的利德索姆2014年才以副部长身份进入政府，曾被指夸大履历。就在三年前，她还支持英国继续留在欧盟。
Leadsom put her 25 years of working in financial services before becoming a legislator in 2010 at the center of her leadership campaign, but those who worked with her have told reporters that she exaggerated her role at Barclays Bank and Invesco Perpetual, a fund manager. She told Sky News that “My CV is correct.”
利德索姆将2010年成为议员前从事金融服务工作25年的经历，作为其竞选领导人的中心。但曾与她共事的人对记者表示，她夸大了在巴克莱银行(Barclays Bank)和景顺基金(Invesco Perpetual)担任基金经理时的职务。利德索姆对天空新闻台(Sky News)表示，“我的简历是属实的。”
In Thursday’s voting, May received 199 votes, Leadsom 84 and Gove 46.
在周四的投票中，梅、利德索姆和戈夫的得票分别为199票、84票和46票。
May and Leadsom are both ideological conservatives and come from far different backgrounds than the Eton-Oxford male circle that has dominated Conservative politics since Cameron became party leader in 2005. Both women went to state schools, where May won a place at Oxford. Leadsom went to the University of Warwick.
梅和利德索姆在思想意识上都属于保守派，背景都与伊顿-牛津(Eton-Oxford)系男性群体有着天壤之别。自卡梅伦2005年担任党魁后，那些男性精英在保守党政坛占据主导地位。梅和利德索姆两人上的都是公立学校。后来，梅就读于牛津大学，利德索姆则去了华威大学(University of Warwick)。
May said on Twitter that she was gratified by support from across the Conservative Party, including both people who favored membership in the European Union and those against it.
梅在Twitter上表示，她对整个保守党——包括支持留在欧盟和反对留在欧盟的人在内——给予的支持感到欣慰。
“I’ve always said there should be a proper contest. Now is the time for me and my team to take our case out to members in the country,” she wrote. “We need proven leadership to negotiate the best deal as we leave the EU, unite our Party, and build a country that works for everyone.”
“我一直说应该有一场体面的竞争。现在，是我和我的团队向全国的保守党人陈述我们的观点的时候了，”她写道。“我们需要得到认可的领导层，以便在我们退出欧盟期间达成最好的协议，并团结全党，建设一个服务全体民众的国家。”
In a speech on Thursday, Leadsom said she would focus on “the continued success of the U.K. economy,” which has been hit hard by Brexit, raising fears of an increased budget deficit from lower growth and lower tax receipts. “Prosperity should be our goal, not austerity,” she said.
周四发表讲话时，利德索姆表示她的重点将是“保持英国经济的成功”。英国退出欧盟重创英国经济，引发了对增长和税收降低导致预算赤字加大的担忧。“我们的目标应该是繁荣，而不是紧缩，”她说。
She also said that “trade must be our top priority: continued free trade with the EU.” She added that she favored “fair but controlled immigration,” without explaining how duty-free trade with the European Union could be maintained while scrapping European rules on freedom of movement and labor, which she also has said she intends to do.
她还说“贸易必须成为我们的头号任务：保持与欧盟之间的自由贸易”。她接着表示支持“公平但受控制的移民”，但未解释如何在取消欧洲的流动和务工自由规则——她说自己打算这么做——的同时，保持与欧盟之间的免税贸易。
EU leaders have repeatedly said that access to the single market of the European Union is not possible without accepting freedom of movement and labor.
欧盟领导人多次表示，不接受流动和务工自由是不可能进入欧盟这个统一市场的。