At Phoebe Philo’s Céline, boundary-breaking fashion is secondary to the meaning behind the clothes.
对菲比·菲罗(Phoebe Philo)执掌的思琳(Céline)品牌来说，服装背后的意义比打破界限更重要。
Invisible. That is what Phoebe Philo’s clothes for Céline make you feel. Not romantic, like Valentino. Or dark and edgy, like Saint Laurent. Simply invisible. A woman in a perfectly cut shirt and a pair of pants. And, oh, what a relief! Because we are busy. We work. We wipe our children’s mouths with the backs of our hands as we rush out the door. We don’t have time to consider whether our prints match or our buttons align. To try on different outfits each morning, like so many different personalities. To fuss and preen. That seems silly, somehow weak. Despite Philo’s many best efforts, there is a Céline uniform: large, slouchy trousers; a collarless shirt; flats; a tuxedo jacket — preferably in navy, black or cream. The clothes are quiet and not meant to make a statement. And so you look invisible. Able to be viewed for more than your surface appearance. This is power dressing.
不显眼——这是菲比·菲罗为思琳设计的服装给人的感觉。不像华伦天奴(Valentino)那样浪漫；不像圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)那么阴郁、犀利。就是不显眼，就是一个穿着裁剪完美的衬衫和裤子的女人。哦，这真让人轻松！因为我们很忙。我们要工作。我们匆忙出门时用手背把孩子的嘴擦干净。我们没时间考虑衣服的花色是否搭配，钮扣是否整齐。没时间每天早晨试穿不同的套装，好像我们有很多种人格。没时间小题大做，精心修饰。那样有点蠢，还显得软弱。尽管菲罗有很多最好的作品，但是思琳的标志性服装仍然是宽松的裤子、无领衬衫、平底鞋和西服上装——最好是海军蓝、黑色或奶油色。这些衣服不张扬，不是为了夺人眼球。所以你看起来不显眼。人们能够透过你的表面关注你的内在。这是显示身份的穿着方式。
The idea that quiet fashion now conveys power is ironic, given that for years that spot has been defined by bright colors, broad shoulders, wide lapels, cinched waistlines — caricatures of exaggerated severity. Since Philo took over as creative director of Céline six years ago, she has consistently designed collections that have changed the course of fashion, steering women toward a more classic and practical way of dressing. There are many designers who make beautifully constructed clothes of the highest quality, Philo among them. But her specialness lies in synthesizing how women want to dress with how they actually live their lives. And how we want to see ourselves: sophisticated, knowledgeable, not victimized by fashion. Increasingly, comfort is the ultimate commodification of luxury. At Céline, this has translated into silk pants that puddle at the ankles, roomy coats that borrow from men’s wear, even fur-lined Birkenstocks.
不张扬的服装代表着权力——这个概念有点讽刺，因为有很多年，权力身份是通过鲜艳的色彩、宽肩、大翻领和收紧的腰身来表现的——像是故作庄重的漫画。从六年前菲罗担任思琳的创意总监以来，她设计的服装系列在不断改变时装界的进程，引领女性采取更经典、更实用的着装方式。有很多设计师制作剪裁优美的高品质服装，菲罗是其中之一。但是她的特长在于把女人想要的着装方式和她们的实际生活结合起来，把时装与我们眼中的自己结合起来：成熟、知性，不为时装奴役。慢慢地，舒适变成了奢侈品最根本的商品属性。思琳把这种理念体现为长及脚踝的丝绸长裤，借鉴自男装的宽松外套，以及皮凉鞋。
More concerned with the subtraction of details than with their addition, Philo is often labeled a minimalist. But that couldn’t be further from the truth. Open a wool coat, and the seams are lined in rubber. Notice how a cashmere sweater is knit so densely that it hangs away from the body. (The main criticism against Céline is that the clothes are too expensive. For that, we now have Zara.) Yet as subtle as the Céline code is, each season there are giveaways that are recognizable to those in the know, such as a longer sleeve or a topcoat without a closure. Things look accidental but are actually entirely purposeful.
菲罗更注重减少细节，而非增加细节，所以她被贴上了极简主义的标签。但这其实是大错特错。打开一件羊毛外套，你会发现里面的缝合线有橡胶衬里。羊绒衫织得特别密，不会贴在身上（人们对思琳的主要批评是价格太高，所以我们现在有了Zara）。尽管思琳的设计规则很微妙，但是每一季明眼人都能发现一些泄露机密之处，比如一只袖子比另一只长，一件大衣没有收边。这些看起来是意外，实际上都是故意设计的。
Adding to the Céline mystique is the designer herself. For anyone who follows fashion, it’s impossible to think of the French house without first thinking of Philo. She’s the best advertisement for the brand. A mother of three who quit the top position at Chloé, in part to spend time with her new daughter, then famously refused to relocate her family from London to Paris when she got the Céline job, she has firmly prioritized what matters most. Her intentionally mousy hair and no makeup are the mark of a woman who relies on more than looks to get her way. And she rarely talks to the press, preferring that her collections speak for themselves — which, of course, is its own brilliant marketing tool. But, really, what would she say? That she’s a woman who thinks about women? That she was inspired by these modern times we live in? That’s already abundantly clear. Ultimately, for Philo, it’s about the work. And isn’t that what all of us ever hope to say?
除了思琳，设计师本人也很神秘。对任何一个追逐时尚的人来说，想到这家法国公司，肯定会先想到菲罗。她是这个品牌最好的广告。她有三个孩子，部分为了照顾刚出生的女儿，她辞去了在Chloé的顶级职位。得到思琳的职位后，她拒绝把家从伦敦搬到巴黎。她坚决优先考虑最重要的事。她故意把头发染成灰褐色，从不化妆，显示出她是那种不依靠外貌获得成功的女人。她很少接受媒体采访，认为她的服装不言自明，认为这些服装本身就是最好的销售工具。但是我们真的想知道，她会怎么说？会说她替女人着想？说她受到了我们生活的这个时代的启发？那已经非常清晰了。说到底，对菲罗来说，它只是工作。这难道不是我们所有人都想说的话吗？
THE MAKING OF THE MYTHOLOGY
神话的发展过程
Top row, from left: Resort 2010 Philo’s first collection for Céline, which marked the new dawn of minimalism and the importance of perfect separates. Spring 2010 Confirmed some of Céline’s signatures, including utilitarian fabrics such as jute, pique and leather trim. Fall 2010 Showcased Philo’s restraint when it comes to color, focusing on black, navy and cream. Winter staples, like shearlings and knits, were subtly updated to feel modern.
第一行，左起：2010年休闲装是菲罗为思琳设计的第一个系列，它标志着极简主义的新开端以及完美单品的重要性。2010年春装巩固了思琳的一些特色，包括实用的面料，比如麻布、凸纹布和真皮配料。2010年秋装表明菲罗在颜色选择方面十分局限，大多是黑色、海军蓝和奶油色。基础冬装，比如皮毛大衣和针织衫，略作改造，具有现代感。
Second row: Spring 2011 Philo loosened up and kick-started the craze for a roomier, luxe silhouette, featuring silk pajama dressing, woven Baja sweaters and racer-back jumpsuits. Fall 2011 Suddenly, a simple color-block sweater became high fashion. Resort 2012 In one of Philo’s best collections to date, she moved toward bolder statement pieces: leather patchwork, floral leather biker jackets, super-wide pilgrim belts.
第二行：在设计2011年春装时，菲罗放开手，尝试更宽松、奢华的剪裁，包括丝绸睡衣套装、彩色条纹毛衣和赛车手背心连衣裤。2011年秋季，忽然之间，一件简单的色块毛衣成了时尚。2012年休闲装是菲罗到目前为止最棒的系列之一，她推出了一些更大胆的、抢眼的元素：皮料拼接，印花摩托皮夹克和超宽腰带。
Third row: Prefall 2012 Defined the slouchy Céline silhouette, with oversize suiting and coats influenced by men’s wear. Fall 2012 A continuation of oversize volume and color-blocking, this time with fur, in primary colors and shots of hot pink. Spring 2013 Philo’s nod to the ’90s, done with a deconstructed ease: ankle-grazing dresses with raw edges, pants that pooled on the floor and the now-ubiquitous fur Birkenstocks.
第三行：2012年早秋装充分展现了思琳宽松的剪裁，受到男装的启发，推出了超大号西服和外套。2012年秋装仍然是超大号和色块，不过这一次用在了皮毛上，颜色是三基色和桃红。菲罗的2013年春装向90年代致意，轻松地采用解构方式：留着毛边的长及脚踝的连衣裙，拖到地板上的长裤，以及如今随处可见的皮凉鞋。
Bottom row: Fall 2013 Céline’s season of cozy. Philo created the idea of comfort as the ultimate luxury: Dresses were knotted in the front for a bundled effect; fabrics were nubby; bags were cuddled like water bottles. Resort 2014 Philo continued to challenge the fashion calendar and designed seasonless clothes, showcasing Céline’s trademark fur coats alongside linen canvas cargo pants. Spring 2014 Surprised the industry once again with a colorful collection of artful tribal prints and exuberant accessories.
最后一行：2013年秋装是思琳的舒适季。菲罗首创了舒适就是终极奢侈的概念。连衣裙前部打结，造成堆积效果；面料有很多结；胸前的手袋像水瓶一样。在设计2014年休闲装时，菲罗继续挑战服装日历，推出没有季节性的服装，将思琳标志性的皮毛大衣和亚麻帆布工装裤放在一起展示。2014年春装再次震惊时装界，这个系列色彩缤纷，有精妙的民族印花和繁盛的配饰。