On the eve of the 2012 White House Correspondents’ Dinner, this city’s annual media-politico-Hollywood love fest, Katharine Weymouth convened the sort of Washington power dinner for which her grandmother, Katharine Graham, the pioneering publisher of The Washington Post, was famous.
华盛顿——在华盛顿城一年一度的媒体、政界、好莱坞众星云集的盛典——2012白宫记者晚宴举办前夜，凯瑟琳·韦茅斯 (Katharine Weymouth)也举办了她自己的华盛顿名流晚宴。当年，她的外祖母、《华盛顿邮报》先驱出版人凯·格雷厄姆(Katharine Graham)曾多次举办这类晚宴，也因此闻名。
Around the dining room table in Ms. Weymouth’s airy Craftsman home sat a collection of Kay Graham’s intimates and descendants: Vernon Jordan, the Clinton consigliere; C. Boyden Gray, counsel to the first President Bush; her oldest son Donald, now chief executive of the company that owns The Post; and Lally Weymouth, Mrs. Graham’s daughter and Ms. Weymouth’s mother, a globe-trotting journalist and Manhattan socialite known for both her interviews with Middle East dictators and glitzy Fourth of July Hamptons parties.
在韦茅斯宽敞通透、精雕细琢的宅邸里，凯·格雷厄姆的挚友与后人围坐在晚宴餐桌前，他们中有前总统克林顿的顾问弗农·乔丹(Vernon Jordan)，老布什在任期间的白宫顾问C·博伊登·格雷(C. Boyden Gray)，凯·格雷厄姆的长子、时任华盛顿邮报公司首席执行官唐纳德(Donald)，凯的女儿、凯瑟琳·韦茅斯的母亲拉里·韦茅斯(Lally Weymouth)，她也是一位踏遍全球的记者、曼哈顿的社交名媛，因采访数位中东独裁者和举办美国独立日汉普顿派对而闻名。
At the head of the table sat Ms. Weymouth, a Harvard- and Stanford-educated lawyer, single mother of three and, at 47, a fourth-generation publisher of The Post. As her guests chatted, she gently intervened, steering the conversation, salon-style, toward the economy and presidential politics. When it was over, Mrs. Weymouth, not an easy one to please, showered her daughter with praise.
当时餐桌首席坐着凯瑟琳·韦茅斯，这位毕业于哈佛大学、斯坦福大学的昔日律师，育有三个孩子的47岁单身母亲，是《邮报》的第四代出版人。座上宾客交谈往来，她轻声唱和，引导着沙龙风格的讨论，围绕经济与总统大选展开。宴席落幕，不易取悦的韦茅斯夫人（韦茅斯女士的母亲）对女儿举办的晚宴赞不绝口。
“It was a big moment,” said Molly Elkin, Ms. Weymouth’s best friend and one of the dinner party guests. “It was sort of like: ‘I’ve passed the baton, kid. You’ve learned well, you did a good job.’ ”
“这是个非同小可的时刻，”韦茅斯女士最亲密的朋友、晚宴客人之一莫莉·埃尔金(Molly Elkin)说，“就好像是说，‘孩子，我已经把接力棒传给你了。你已经出师了，你做得很出色。’”
It was the kind of scene, rife with unspoken family drama, that captivates longtime Washingtonians, who have scrutinized and mythologized the Grahams for decades, much as the British do their royalty. Now, in an exceedingly difficult climate for newspapers, Ms. Weymouth is charged with saving the crown jewels. In a city and a clan filled with expectations for her, that is no easy task.
几十年来，华盛顿人对格雷厄姆家族仔细审视、加以神化，热情不让英国人对皇室的追捧；而此情此景，家族中的无限风云不言自明，令众多华盛顿人痴迷不已。今天，报业的大气候愈加困窘，韦茅斯女士即担起了捍卫皇冠宝石的重担。在整个家族、整个城市的众目期待中，这个差事谈何容易。
She is carving her path in a capital, and an industry, vastly changed from the one her grandmother inhabited when big-city newspapers were flush with advertising; The Post helped bring down a president; and for nearly four decades, Mrs. Graham ruled social Washington, feting presidents and prime ministers in her elegant Georgetown manse, dining at the White House with kings and queens.
她在这座首都城市、这个行业中开辟着新境，而与她外祖母当年相比，这座城市、这个行业已发生了翻天覆地的变化：那时，大城市的报纸广告收益充盈；《邮报》曾促使一任总统下台；将近四十年，凯·格雷厄姆掌控着华盛顿的社交圈，在她的乔治敦豪宅中宴请总统首相们，在白宫里与各国国王和王后们进餐。
“There is never going to be another Kay, never in Washington, because the times are different,” said Sally Quinn, the columnist and the wife of Ben Bradlee, the editor whose partnership with Mrs. Graham was chronicled in “All The President’s Men.” “People just don’t entertain that way,” Ms. Quinn said. “People have kids, they work late. That is not what Katharine wants to do.”
“凯的传奇在华盛顿将是空前绝后的，因为时代不同了。”专栏作家、本·布莱德利(Ben Bradlee)，其与格雷厄姆夫人的合作在《总统班底》中有所记载）的妻子萨莉·奎因(Sally Quinn)说，“人们的生活方式与想法也不同了，又带孩子，又加班苦干。这不是凯瑟琳想要的。”
Ms. Weymouth is many things: a working mother and enthusiastic cook; a fearless skier (“She has not met a slope she won’t take,” says Liz Spayd, a former managing editor of The Post); a fitness buff (“She can crunch till the cows come home,” said Pari Bradlee, a yoga instructor and daughter-in-law to Ben) and, for a while, one of the most sought-after dates in town. (After seeing a local architect, Ms. Weymouth has recently reunited with an old flame, Marty Moe, a former AOL executive.)
韦茅斯女士八面玲珑：她是职业妈妈、热衷厨艺的美食家、无所畏惧的滑雪者（《邮报》前执行总编莉兹·施佩[Liz Spayd]评说：“她还没有遇见过一个她不敢征服的雪坡。”）、健身狂（“她可以一直做拉伸，一直一直做下去。”帕丽·布莱德利[Pari Bradlee]，瑜珈教练、本的儿媳如是说）。除此以外，她曾经是华盛顿城最抢手的约会对象（在与一位当地的建筑师分手后，韦茅斯女士与昔日恋人、美国在线[AOL]的前副总裁马蒂·莫[Marty Moe]重燃旧情）。
She does not take her famous name too seriously, and she likes to have fun. For years, she and Ms. Elkin, a labor lawyer, held a backyard Summer White Party, a spoof on the lavish Black and White Ball hosted in 1966 by Truman Capote to honor Mrs. Graham. Once, at a club in Aspen, Colo., Ms. Weymouth spied Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez watching her dance.
对于自己的名气，她并不太当回事，而是更喜欢享乐生活。过去许多年中，她与好友埃尔金女士举办后花园夏日白衣舞会，作为对1966年杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)为凯·格雷厄姆举办的盛大奢华的黑白化妆舞会的恶搞。有一次，在科罗拉多州阿斯彭的一间会所里，韦茅斯女士发现扬基队三垒手亚历克斯·罗德里格兹(Alex Rodriguez)正在偷看她跳舞。
“We are the only people in this club who don’t want anything from you,” she announced. “Come dance with us.” He said he would rather watch.
“我们是这整个会所里唯一对你没有任何企图的人，”她声明，“来和我们一起跳舞吧。”他说他还是更喜欢看她跳。
To her 2012 “grown-up” dinner, she wore a $35 scoop-neck sleeveless sundress from J. C. Penney, a playful nod to an important Post advertiser whose chief executive at the time, Ron Johnson, was a guest. (She bought J. C. Penney dresses for Ms. Elkin, who wore hers, and Mrs. Weymouth, who wouldn’t be caught dead in one.)
在她的2012年“成人晚宴”上，她穿了一件从杰西潘尼(J.C.Penny)买来的35美金的圆领无袖背心裙，算是对《邮报》的重要广告商杰西潘尼不乏俏皮的致敬，而潘尼百货的时任执行总裁罗恩·约翰逊(Ron Johnson)则是当晚的宾客之一（她也给埃尔金女士和她母亲韦茅斯夫人买了杰西潘尼的裙装，埃尔金穿了，而韦茅斯夫人，是宁死也不会穿的）。
Ms. Weymouth’s penchant for showing off her athletic figure — she arrived for a photo shoot in a crisp white sleeveless sheath and four-inch lime green Jimmy Choos — provokes titters in the newsroom. Then again, she works hard for it; Ms. Elkin said the two spend Sunday mornings doing free weights and “boy push-ups” with a personal trainer.
韦茅斯女士热衷于展示她那健美的身姿。在一次照片拍摄中，她穿着一席明快的白色无袖紧身裙和一双四英寸高的柠檬绿色Jimmy Choo鞋出现在摄影棚里，编辑部里传来一阵傻笑。当然，她为此付出了辛苦；埃尔金女士称，她俩每周日上午都在一位私人健身教练的陪同下，进行自由力量器械和男式俯卧撑训练。
“We smack-talk each other the entire time,” Ms. Elkin said, “just like we did when we were 20 years old.”
“我俩健身的时候都在聊天，”埃尔金女士说，“就像我们二十几岁时一样。”
Quick-witted and no-nonsense, Ms. Weymouth is more like her steely grandmother than her famously demanding and mercurial mother. But since becoming publisher in February 2008, she has had a rocky ride; she has already hired her second editor, and critics lament that she is presiding over a newspaper in retreat.
才思敏捷，没有废话，比起她那严厉苛刻、喜怒无常的妈妈，韦茅斯女士更像她干练刚毅的外祖母。自2008年2月成为《邮报》出版人之后，她的事业堪称坎坷，她已经换了一届主编，评论家们都在慨叹她当家的《邮报》正在走下坡路。
Ad revenue is declining and average daily circulation was 474,767 in March, down from 673,180 when Ms. Weymouth took over, the Alliance for Audited Media said.
据美国新闻媒体审计联盟(the Alliance for Audited Media)称，《邮报》广告收入正在下降，日均发行量由韦茅斯女士接管时的673,180份降低至三月份的474,767份。
Lacking the magic bullet, she is emphasizing a local mission — she has reduced staff, shut bureaus in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago and eliminated the well-regarded Book World section on Sunday — to meet demands by her uncle, and The Post board, that the newspaper turn a profit. (It is, she said, although on Friday the parent company reported a 14 percent drop in second-quarter earnings, compared to a year ago.)
没有灵丹妙药，她发起了华盛顿保卫战——裁员，关闭纽约、洛杉矶、芝加哥办公室，取消了久负盛誉的周日图书世界版块，以达到她任《邮报》董事的舅舅交给她的任务：让报纸扭亏为盈（她说报纸已经在扭亏为盈，而周五母公司的报告称，相比于去年同期，报纸第二季度收入下降了14%）。
Recently, she upset sentimentalists by putting The Post’s 15th Street headquarters up for sale. She says her grandmother always hated the boxy building.
而就在近期，她决定出售《邮报》位于15街的总部大楼，这让许多爱伤感的人感到不悦，而她说其实外祖母一直都不喜欢那座四四方方的楼。
But while Mrs. Graham, who took over the company in 1963 after her husband’s suicide (and later became publisher and chief executive), battled lifelong insecurities as she transformed herself from a 1950s housewife to the first woman to run a Fortune 500 company (as well as the author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning memoir), not so Ms. Weymouth.
1963年，格雷厄姆夫人在其丈夫自杀后接管邮报公司（后来成为出版人和执行总裁）。从20世纪50年代的家庭主妇摇身变成首位领军五百强公司的女性（亦是获普利策奖回忆录的作者），这个巨大的转变让格雷厄姆夫人一生都在与局促不安的内心作斗争，而这一点是韦茅斯女士所不曾经历的。
“Katharine is far more comfortable in her own skin than Kay ever was,” said Robert G. Kaiser, a Post associate editor who has worked there for 50 years. Still, he said: “She has a burden. Your biggest anxiety, as I know from personal experience with Kay and Don, is: ‘Am I going to screw this up? Am I the one who is going to be remembered as the goof-off who couldn’t keep it together?’ ”
“比起凯，凯瑟琳要更自信得多，”在《邮报》工作了50年的副主编罗伯特·G.凯泽(Robert G. Kaiser)说，“但再自信，她还是有心理负担。最大的忧虑，就是‘报纸会不会砸在我手里？我会不会成为那个败家子？’这是我和凯、和唐纳德打过交道后的亲身体会。”
On a steamy summer Friday in July, Ms. Weymouth was curled up on her living room couch, not in fashionable Georgetown but in the practically suburban northwest Washington neighborhood of Chevy Chase, where a Post honor box and fleet of scooters are parked on her front porch. Her golden retriever, Dakota, scampered about, a slobbery tennis ball in its mouth.
在七月一个闷热的星期五，韦茅斯女士蜷坐在自家客厅的沙发里。不是在名流出没的乔治敦，而是在华盛顿特区西北边的城郊切维蔡斯，在她的家门前，摆着一个《邮报》的诚实售报箱，以及数辆滑板车。她的金毛猎犬达科塔嘴里叼着个沾满口水的网球，跑来跑去。
If her social life is centered anywhere, it is here, in the house she shares with her children Madeleine, 13, Beckett, 11, and Bridget, 9; an assemblage of pets (three dogs, a guinea pig, a rabbit, two gerbils and a hamster); and a grandmotherly housekeeper, Olinda, whom she “sort of inherited” from Mrs. Graham. It is the scene of countless family dinners with her tight circle of friends, including Ms. Elkin, whom she met at Oxford.
如果说她的社交生活有一个中心的话，那这个中心就是这里。在这座房子里，住着她和三个孩子：13岁的玛德琳(Madeleine)，11岁的贝克特(Beckett)和9岁的布里奇特(Bridget)；除此以外，还有一大堆的宠物（三只狗、一只豚鼠、一只兔子、两只沙鼠和一只仓鼠）；这里还住着奥兰达(Olinda)，祖母一样的女管家，是她从格雷厄姆夫人那里“算是继承过来”的。这里上演了无数场家庭聚餐和密友聚会，挚友中包括她在牛津大学读书时结识的埃尔金女士。
Ms. Weymouth is proud of her culinary skills, another break from family tradition. “My mother doesn’t cook, my grandmother didn’t cook,” she said. “Her kids were raised by servants. They would joke about Sunday night dinner. It was the only night she would cook, and apparently it was just horrendous, like scrambled eggs and Campbell’s soup.”
韦茅斯女士以她的厨艺为荣，这又是她与家庭传统大相径庭的一点。“我妈妈从不做饭，我外祖母也从没做过饭，”她说，“她的孩子们都是佣人带大的。他们会拿星期天的晚餐开玩笑，因为那是唯一她得做饭的晚上，而那一餐恐怖得狠，有早餐式的炒鸡蛋和金宝汤(Campbell)牌的罐头汤。”
On this afternoon, she had left work early to prepare yellow gazpacho, swordfish kebabs with bacon and cherry tomatoes, and strawberry shortcake for 10 friends and colleagues, including the Post foreign editor, who had returned from Afghanistan. Her daughter Bridget wandered in nibbling a piece of bacon.
在这个下午，韦茅斯女士提早下班回家准备晚餐，招待十位朋友和同事，晚餐包括西班牙冷汤、箭鱼培根小番茄烤串和草莓松饼。要来的客人中包括刚从阿富汗回来的《邮报》国际新闻编辑。女儿布里奇特啃着一块儿培根走进来。
Ms. Weymouth frowned (“I need that for dinner!” she said), but it was a mock frown, a precious moment of normalcy. In April 2011, when Bridget was just shy of her seventh birthday, she fell off a pony, mangling her left arm. She spent 28 days undergoing a dozen operations at Children’s Hospital here (and later two more in New York). Ms. Weymouth moved in, conducting business meetings from the child’s bedside.
韦茅斯女士皱起眉（“那是我用来做晚饭的！”她说），但她不是真的生气，看得出，这是生活恢复平静后的珍贵瞬间。2011年4月，将满七岁的布里奇特从小马上摔下，左臂受伤。在接下来的28天里，小布里奇特在这里的儿童医院接受了十几次手术（随后又到纽约进行两次手术）。韦茅斯女士搬进了医院，在孩子病床前办公开会。
“She was dealing with doctors and surgeons and a child who was in a lot of pain,” said Kevin Sullivan, a Post reporter and close friend. “But it wasn’t like she flushed her BlackBerry down the toilet. It’s not one of those jobs where you can say, ‘I’ll be gone a couple of weeks.’ ”
“当时她要跟医生、主刀医生们交涉各种问题，还要照顾承受着疼痛的孩子，”《邮报》记者、韦茅斯的好朋友凯文·沙利文(Kevin Sullivan)说，“但她并没有把她的黑莓手机抛到脑后。她担任的不是那种你可以请几周假、完全消失的工作。”
Moving to Washington to join the family business, Ms. Weymouth said, was never in her “grand plan.” Dowdy D.C. seems a world away from her childhood in Manhattan, where she attended the all-girls Brearley School and danced the “Nutcracker” while studying, quite seriously, with the School of American Ballet.
韦茅斯女士说，搬家到华盛顿、接管家族事业，这从来没有出现在她的“宏伟人生计划”中。沉闷的华盛顿特区离她长大的曼哈顿似乎隔着十万八千里。在曼哈顿，她就读布里尔利女校(Brearley School)，并在上学期间跟从美国芭蕾舞学校(School of American Ballet)学习跳舞，参演芭蕾舞剧《胡桃夹子》，对舞蹈的诉求堪称执着。
Her father, Yann Weymouth, a noted architect (and brother of bassist Tina Weymouth, a founder of the Talking Heads) and mother divorced when Ms. Weymouth and her younger sister Pamela were little. The girls were raised in their mother’s orbit on the Upper East Side, in the swirl of New York’s literary circles.
她的父亲杨·韦茅斯(Yann Weymouth)是位著名建筑师（传声头像乐队[Talking Heads]创始人、贝斯手蒂娜·韦茅斯[Tina Weymouth]的哥哥），在凯瑟琳和她的妹妹帕梅拉(Pamela)还小的时候，他就和她们的母亲离婚了。姐妹俩在纽约上东区母亲的文学圈子里长大成人。
It was a childhood spent going out to restaurants (“Grandma disapproved,” Ms. Weymouth said) and drinking Cokes at Elaine’s. They tagged along on Lally’s reporting trips — “We got to have dinner at the Club d’Alep and meet some of the Syrian aristocracy” — discussed fashion with the Vogue editor Diana Vreeland and politics with Alexander Cockburn, the left-wing British journalist and, for a time, Mrs. Weymouth’s live-in boyfriend.
她们的童年岁月常常在外出赴宴中度过（“外祖母比较反对这个，”韦茅斯女士说），或是在伊莱恩餐厅(Elaine)里喝可乐。母亲拉里的很多采访旅程她们都随行。“我们于是有机会到阿勒颇会所(Club d’Alep)吃饭，见到一些叙利亚的贵族，”与《时尚》杂志(Vogue)主编戴安娜•弗里兰(Diana Vreeland)讨论时尚，与亚历山大·库克柏恩(Alexander Cockburn)谈论政治，这位来自英国的左翼记者，曾经一度是韦茅斯夫人的同居男友。
“It was rarefied,” said Diane Paulus, the Broadway director (“Hair,” “Pippin”), a close friend since the third grade. “We were like 8- or 9- or 10-years-old, and there were big grown-up dinner parties and each child would give toasts. Lally was very social, very fashionable, very chic and very vocal in her politics. There were always political discussions, and she expected the children to keep up.”
“那是一种阳春白雪的生活格调，”百老汇导演戴安·保罗斯（Diane Paulus，作品：歌舞剧《毛发》[Hair]，《皮平》[Pippin]）评论说，她是韦茅斯女士小学三年级起的好朋友，“我们那时也就是八、九岁，九、十岁的样子，参加大人们那些盛大的晚宴，每个孩子都要出敬酒词。拉里谈笑风生、时髦优雅、善抒政见。晚宴上每每谈到政治，她总是期待孩子们也能应对得体、参与讨论。”
But at Harvard, and later Oxford, where the future publisher briefly pursued a master’s degree in literature — “My mother told me I had to go to graduate school,” Ms. Weymouth explained — and Stanford Law, she rarely let on who she was.
由哈佛大学本科毕业后，她在牛津大学速速求得了文学硕士学位——“我妈妈说必须要读硕士，”韦茅斯解释说——而后到斯坦福大学法学院学习法律，在这整个期间她对自己的身世始终保持低调。
At Oxford, she drank beer, rowed crew and went through a black leather phase — “She scared me, she was so cool,” Ms. Elkin said — which turned almost comical on a trip to Israel. During a stopover in Paris to see Mr. Weymouth, who was helping I. M. Pei design the glass pyramid at the Louvre, Ms. Weymouth produced a lengthy itinerary, drafted by her mother, including lunch at the Knesset with Benjamin Netanyahu and dinner at the apartment of Yitzhak and Leah Rabin.
在牛津读书期间，她喝啤酒、划赛艇，还经过了一个酷爱黑皮衣的叛逆期。“她简直让我害怕，她太酷了。”埃尔金女士说。这让她的一次以色列之行险些闹了笑话。当时她经停巴黎去看她的父亲韦茅斯先生，他那时在协助贝聿铭设计卢浮宫的玻璃金字塔。由韦茅斯夫人起草的行程紧密繁忙，其中包括与本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在以色列议会共进午餐，以及在伊扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)和夫人莉亚·拉宾(Leah Rabin)的宅邸享用晚餐。
“So the security people are looking at her, with her black eyeliner and her leather jacket and these black earrings, and they’re like, ‘Who are you?’ ” Ms. Elkin said. “And I’m looking at her and saying: ‘Yeah, who are you? And why did you only tell me to bring one dress?’ ”
“然后安保看着她浓黑的眼线、黑皮夹克、黑耳环，问‘这人是谁？’”埃尔金女士回忆说，“然后我也看着她说，‘对呀，你到底是谁啊？你为什么只告诉我带一件礼裙？’”
Ms. Weymouth loved the West Coast and hoped to stay there after law school. Her mother had other ideas. “I thought it was a nice place for a weekend,” Mrs. Weymouth said in an interview, “not for a life.”
韦茅斯女士喜欢西海岸，并曾经想在上完法学院后留下来生活。但她的母亲对她另有安排。“那地方度个周末还可以，”母亲韦茅斯夫人在一次采访中说，“但是定居不行。”
Instead, she took a job as a litigator with Williams & Connolly, The Post’s law firm. Nicole Chapman, her Harvard roommate, said she wanted to “establish herself as Katharine Weymouth,” and eventually have children, becoming a “more there mother” than her own had been.
没能留在西海岸，她来到负责《邮报》法律事务的威廉姆斯—康诺利律师事务所(Williams & Connolly)做了一名诉讼律师。她的哈佛室友妮可·查普曼(Nicole Chapman)说，她想要独立，“让自己——凯瑟琳·韦茅斯——得到认可，”她也想将来养育儿女，做一个比她自己的母亲“更投入、更称职的母亲”。
To herald the arrival of her oldest grandchild, Mrs. Graham invited Washington’s young up-and-comers to a dinner party. George Stephanopoulos, then with the Clinton administration, was there. Mr. Jordan sent his niece, Carolyn Niles, now a close Weymouth friend. “She really took the time to establish social connections for Katharine,” Ms. Niles said.
为迎接长孙女的学成归来，格雷厄姆夫人邀请了华盛顿城最前程似锦的年轻新秀参加社交晚宴。宾客中包括克林顿班底的乔治·斯蒂芬诺伯罗斯(George Stephanopoulos)，克林顿高参乔丹先生也派了他的甥女卡罗琳·奈尔斯(Carolyn Niles)赴宴，她现在已是韦茅斯女士的密友。“凯真的花了很多心思帮凯瑟琳建立社交圈子，”奈尔斯女士说。
If Kay Graham saw her namesake as her heir apparent, she did not say, though it was apparent they were extremely close. Ann Calfas, a Stanford classmate of Ms. Weymouth, recalls the grandmother’s simple delight in driving them to the wedding of a friend. “She was like, ‘Girls, hop in!’ ”
如果说凯（瑟琳）·格雷厄姆将与她同名的外孙女看成了事业接班人的话，她也并未明说，尽管祖孙俩很明显是那么的亲密无间。韦茅斯女士在斯坦福的同学安·卡华斯(Ann Calfas)追忆起韦茅斯的外祖母开车送她们去参加朋友婚礼时那种单纯的欣悦，“她冲我们说，‘姑娘们，上车！’”
Ms. Weymouth has her own fond memories of Friday night “dates” when Mrs. Graham needed a party escort, and of quiet dinners in the library of the big house on R Street in Georgetown. “We would eat on the TV trays and gossip,” she said, “and I would tell her about my love life and she’d crack up.”
韦茅斯女士也有自己珍藏的关于外祖母的美好记忆，那些周五晚上的“约会”，她陪同格雷厄姆夫人去参加各种派对；还有在乔治敦R街上的豪宅静谧的图书馆里，与外祖母吃晚饭。“我们就在折叠桌上吃，边吃边八卦，”她说，“我跟她讲我的恋情进展，她总会哈哈大笑。”
In 1996, The Post put out a call to Williams & Connolly for temporary legal help. Ms. Weymouth put her hand up, and the job became permanent, leading to stints in the online operation (then a distinct subsidiary) and ultimately as vice president for advertising.
1996年，《邮报》向威廉姆斯—康诺利律师事务所寻求临时的法律援助。韦茅斯女士主动请缨，而这项临时的工作持续了下去，使她随后又转作了网络运营（在当时是报纸的分支补充），最终她做了负责广告的副总裁。
Inside the newsroom, one rap on Ms. Weymouth is that unlike her uncle, she has never been a reporter. Over the years, she said, they talked about it, but she didn’t feel qualified. “I just felt like it would be too weird,” she said.
在编辑部里，一个针对韦茅斯女士的批评即是她不像舅舅那样有当记者的经历。这些年来，她说，他们多次涉及这个问题，但她觉得自己不够资格做记者。“我老是觉得如果做了记者会感觉怪怪的。”她说。
If there is one decision Ms. Weymouth has made that has mystified people who know her well, it was her July 1998 marriage to Richard Scully, a Washington lawyer. The wedding at her mother’s Southampton home, with 470 A-list guests, was a typical Lally extravaganza. Not only did Oscar de la Renta design the dress, a friend said, he was there to zip it up.
如果说韦茅斯女士做过什么让熟识她的人感到困惑的决定的话，那就是她1998年嫁给华盛顿的律师理查德·斯库利(Richard Scully)。婚礼在她母亲南汉普顿的家中举行，邀请了470位名流贵客，无疑是一席典型的拉里式的盛事。一位朋友透露，奥斯卡·德拉伦塔(Oscar de la Renta)不仅为韦茅斯女士设计了婚纱，他还亲自到场为她穿戴整理。
The divorce in 2005 was messy. Court records show they fought over their $70,000 country club membership (Mr. Scully, a golfer, testified that Ms. Weymouth “doesn’t really value it”) and their German shepherd, Maxine, among other things. The court awarded both to Ms. Weymouth.
2005年的离婚让她感到焦头烂额。法院纪录显示，二人连他们价值七万美金的乡村俱乐部会员卡也要争抢（爱打高尔夫球的斯库利先生说，韦茅斯女士‘并不看重这个会员身份’），还有他们的德国牧羊犬麦卡西，以及其他种种。法院将会员卡和狗都判给了韦茅斯女士。
Last year, Mr. Scully was accused of assaulting his girlfriend. The charges were dropped, but Ms. Weymouth went back to court, asserting that he had stalked her through texts and e-mail and engaged in “angry and explosive outbursts” in front of their children. Mr. Scully’s lawyer, Mark E. Schamel, called the allegations “false” and attributed Ms. Weymouth’s assertions to an “opportunistic pleading” filed by her divorce lawyer.
去年，斯库利先生被指控侵犯他的女友。对方撤诉后，韦茅斯女士回到了法庭，称前夫通过短信和电子邮件骚扰她，还在他们的孩子面前“大发雷霆”。斯库利先生的律师，马克·E·夏默尔(Mark E. Schamel)称，这项指控是“无中生有”，并认为这是韦茅斯女士的离婚律师在“趁火打劫”。
Ms. Weymouth and her tight-knit circle prefer not to discuss it. “The less you say about him, the better,” Lally Weymouth said.
韦茅斯女士和她小圈子里的人都不愿多说关于她俩的事。“你提他越少越好。”母亲拉里·韦茅斯说。
Friends say Ms. Weymouth has become the ultimate hands-on mother (albeit one with “one-and-a-half” nannies, as she describes it), waking up early to make the children a hot breakfast and driving them to school every morning. In a city of nightly parties, she picks and chooses. She is a regular at galas for the Alvin Ailey dance company and the PEN/Faulkner Foundation, because Ms. Elkin is on the board.
朋友们都说韦茅斯女士成为了一个无事不问的超级妈妈（尽管据她描述，她还有“一个半保姆”帮忙）。每天清晨，她都早起为孩子们准备热乎乎的早餐，然后开车送他们上学。这个城市的夜生活交际圈丰富错综，她往往精挑细选。她是阿尔文•艾利舞蹈团(Alvin Ailey dance company)晚宴和笔会/福克纳基金(PEN/Faulkner Foundation)晚宴的常客，因为埃尔金女士是董事。
But at this year’s White House Correspondents’ Dinner, Ms. Weymouth was nowhere to be seen. She was home hosting a sleepover; it was Bridget’s ninth birthday.
但是今年的白宫记者晚宴却不见韦茅斯女士的踪影。她正在家里为女儿布里奇特的九岁生日举办小朋友过夜派对。
Not long after her grandmother died in 2001, Ms. Weymouth had a dream. In it, they strolled the beach on Martha’s Vineyard, where Mrs. Graham owned a home.
2001年她的外祖母逝世不久，韦茅斯女士做了一个梦。在梦里，她俩在玛莎葡萄园岛的海滩上漫步。当年，格雷厄姆夫人在岛上有一处宅邸。
“In my dream, I knew she was dead,” Ms. Weymouth said. “But she said: ‘I’m sorry. I’m sorry I have to leave you.’ ”
“在我的梦里，我知道她已经死了，”韦茅斯女士说，“她跟我说，‘对不起，对不起我不得不离你而去。’”
Ms. Weymouth sees no larger meaning in this — “I don’t believe in hoo-ha,” she said — though as she charts the future of her family’s business, she is also immersed in the past. Pictures of her grandmother line the walls of her office, where Mrs. Graham’s memoir, tagged with sticky notes for Ms. Weymouth’s speeches, is on a shelf. For her first day on the job in February 2008, she wore Mrs. Graham’s pearls “for good luck.”
韦茅斯女士对此并未深究。“我不相信神神鬼鬼的事，”她说。但是，在规划着家族事业未来道路的同时，她也深深沉浸在过去里。外祖母的相片整齐排挂在她办公室的墙上。格雷厄姆夫人撰写的回忆录摆放在架子上，韦茅斯女士准备在演讲中引用的部分都夹着便条贴。2008年2月她上任的第一天，为了讨个好彩头，她戴了格雷厄姆夫人的珍珠首饰。
Her ascension generated the predictable buzz in Washington. People speculated about whether there was competition between Ms. Weymouth and her mother, who, the theory goes, remains miffed that her kid brother inherited the throne. (Not true, both women say.)
不难预料，她入主《邮报》在华盛顿引起了波澜。人们猜测韦茅斯母女间是否对报纸大权有过争夺，舆论认为，韦茅斯夫人仍为当初她的小弟继承了“王位”而耿耿于怀（对此母女俩都一致否认）。
Ms. Weymouth took the helm just as the bottom was about to fall out of the economy. The newspaper had already gone through several newsroom buyouts, and she told her uncle she would not take the job unless she could integrate the digital and print operations. “Don was hellbent against it, and probably still is,” she said.
韦茅斯女士在经济即将崩溃探底之时接管了报纸。当时《邮报》已经经历了几轮编辑部的买断，她告诉舅舅，除非她可以将网络和平面媒体的运营整合为一体，否则不接受这份工作。“唐当时坚决地反对，也许到现在他还是反对。”她说。
Deciding a new editor was needed, she picked Marcus Brauchli, from The Wall Street Journal, the first outsider to edit The Post in four decades. Magazines gushed that she had found her Ben Bradlee, but the relationship soured after news broke that they planned to offer lobbyists the chance to underwrite “intimate and exclusive” dinners, for up to $250,000, with Obama officials and Post journalists in Ms. Weymouth’s home, a seemingly crass version of Kay Graham’s salons.
做出更换主编的决定后，她选中了《华尔街日报》的鲍伟杰(Marcus Brauchli)，这是四十年中《邮报》首次启用非家族内的人做主编。各大杂志纷纷感叹她找到了她的本·布莱德利。然而好景不长，这对绝配搭档被曝光筹划“私密”晚餐，这个看上去极像凯·格雷厄姆当年举办的沙龙聚会的晚餐，在韦茅斯女士家中举行，向政治说客收取高达25万美元的“门票”，以担保其与奥巴马班底及《邮报》记者同席就餐。
Ms. Weymouth apologized, but the negative publicity over “Salon-Gate” was brutal. Ms. Niles said it was the first time she had seen her ordinarily unflappable friend cry over work.
韦茅斯女士已为此事道歉，但是“沙龙门事件”引发的负面报道毫不留情面。奈尔斯女士说，那是她第一次看到她这个一向沉稳泰然的朋友为了工作的事而哭。
Within the Graham family, there is great sensitivity to any suggestion of nepotism. Don Graham, 68, praises his niece as “passionate, hardworking, utterly decent” and also qualified. As to whether she will inherit his job, he ducks the question: “I’m not expecting her to go anyplace.”
在格雷厄姆家族里，任何触及裙带关系的问题都异常敏感。68岁的唐·格雷厄姆，赞许她的外甥女“热情、勤奋、十分得体”，而且完全胜任现在的工作。当被问及她是否会接替他的位置时，他回避了问题，“我没想过让她从现在的位置离开。”
One hint, Post tea-leaf readers say, can be found in the company garage. For years Kay Graham drove a car with the low-numbered District license plate No. 149, which once belonged to her father, Eugene Meyer, who bought The Post at a bankruptcy sale in 1933. Now it is on Ms. Weymouth’s 1991 BMW convertible.
有一个线索，为《邮报》“占卜未来”的人们说，可以在公司的车库里找到。凯·格雷厄姆多年来一直开着一辆车牌号为149的车，这个华盛顿特区的牌照，号码极为靠前。该牌照曾经是她的父亲尤金·迈耶(Eugene Meyer)的，正是他在1933年买下了面临破产的《邮报》。现在，这个牌照出现在韦茅斯女士的1991版宝马敞篷车上。
In the meantime, things have been looking up. In January, Ms. Weymouth replaced Mr. Brauchli with Martin Baron, a no-nonsense newsman from The Boston Globe (and, previously, The New York Times), who has won praise for sharpening coverage and boosting morale. Reporters at The Post who routinely question whether their publisher “gets what we do,” now wonder if maybe, just maybe, she has found her Ben Bradlee after all.
与此同时，事情有所转机。一月份，韦茅斯女士将主编由鲍伟杰替换为马汀·巴伦(Martin Baron)，他此前是《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)一名作风干练的记者（再之前在《纽约时报》工作），他的到来使《邮报》报道覆盖内容更加犀利，士气有所提高，他也因此得到了赞许。那些整天质疑他们的出版人是否“理解他们在干什么”的《邮报》记者们，现在开始思量，也许，也许这次她真的寻到了她的本·布莱德利。
“She made a brilliant choice,” Ms. Quinn said, “and it’s working.”
“她选对了人，”奎因女士说，“很见成果。”
Not everyone is so effusive. The Post recently began charging for online access, but the climate for newspapers in general, and The Post in particular, remains tough. Mr. Baron called Ms. Weymouth “a realist,” who “still wants us to do really great journalism,” albeit “within the reality of our economic circumstances.” But he could not rule out further cuts.
并非所有人都这么逢迎。《邮报》最近开始对在线阅读进行收费，但报业的大环境依然严峻，尤其是《邮报》，更是不容乐观。巴伦先生称韦茅斯女士是一名“现实主义者”，说她“希望我们在目前现实的经济境况允许的范围内，仍能做出非常出色的新闻”。
The question, inside and outside the newspaper, is whether Ms. Weymouth can ever be the great and beloved publisher her grandmother was. “Certainly the genes are there,” said John Morton, a newspaper industry analyst. “It’s the judgment that has yet to be proved.”
就报纸而言，抑或是抛开报纸而论，我们想问的，是韦茅斯女士能否成为像她外祖母一样的，一代伟大的、受人爱戴的出版人。“如果看基因的话是肯定可以的，”报业分析师约翰·莫顿(John Morton)说，“只是这个推断还未到见分晓的时候。”
Others seem to have written her off. The Guardian columnist Michael Wolff recently criticized Ms. Weymouth, declaring her “a disaster in a job for which she had, other than her lineage, no qualifications.”
也有人完全不看好她。《卫报》(The Guardian)专栏作家麦克尔·沃尔夫(Michael Wolff)最近批评韦茅斯女士，称她“工作做得一团糟，除了出身，没有任何其他资格。”
Ms. Weymouth, mindful of her past yet unsentimental about it, seems unconcerned. Her mother “tells me she is proud of me,” she said, and “if I’m not doing a good job, as much as Don loves me, he will fire me.” Even her grandmother, she said, grew into greatness, making mistakes along the way.
韦茅斯女士，对她的家史熟识在心，却并未由此背上包袱。母亲“跟我说她为我骄傲，”她说，“而且，虽然舅舅唐很爱我，但是如果我做得不好，他也会炒掉我。”就算是我的外祖母，她补充说，也是一路摸爬滚打才创造出她的辉煌。
“I don’t feel like my job is to be beloved,” said Ms. Weymouth, the woman who might be known as the working-mother publisher, with her children at play and her dogs at her feet. “I certainly hope to be a great publisher, and if people want to love me, too, that’s even better.”
“我觉得我的职责不是确保大家都喜欢我，”韦茅斯女士——这个大家眼中的职业妈妈出版人，孩子们在一旁玩耍，狗狗在她腿边蜷卧——解释说，“我当然希望自己能成为一位杰出的出版人，如果同时大家也愿意喜欢我，那就是锦上添花了。”