We in journalism tend to cover airplane crashes, corrupt officials and loathsome criminals with gusto, but let’s take a break and applaud a hero.
我们这些新闻从业人员往往对坠机、腐败官员及可恶罪犯的故事津津乐道，不过现在，让我们停下来，为一位英雄鼓掌喝彩。
Catherine Hamlin, an Australian gynecologist who has spent most of her life in Ethiopia, is a 21st-century Mother Teresa. She has revolutionized care of a childbirth injury called obstetric fistula, which occurs when the baby gets stuck in the birth canal and there is no doctor to perform a cesarean section. As many as two million women (and often young teenage girls) worldwide suffer from fistulas. The babies die, and the woman is left incontinent with urine and sometimes feces trickling through her vagina.
澳大利亚妇产科医生凯瑟琳·哈姆林(Catherine Hamlin)在埃塞俄比亚待了大半辈子，堪称21世纪的特蕾莎修女(Mother Teresa)。她对名为“产科瘘”的分娩损伤的治疗方法进行了彻底变革。当婴儿在产道滞留，又没有医生进行剖宫产手术时就会产生瘘孔。全世界有200万名女性（通常是少女妈妈）罹患产科瘘。该病会导致婴儿死亡，产妇尿失禁，有时排泄物还会通过阴道排出。
She is stigmatized. She smells. She is ashamed.
产妇会因此蒙羞，会散发臭味，会为此感到羞耻。
Dr. Hamlin and her late husband, Reg, set up a fistula hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and their work proves that it is possible to repair the injuries cheaply. This hospital trained generations of doctors to repair fistulas and provided a model that has been replicated in other countries.
哈姆林博士和已故的丈夫雷吉(Reg)在埃塞俄比亚的亚的斯亚贝巴创建了一家产科瘘医院。他们的工作证明，可以通过廉价的方式修补瘘孔。这所医院培养了几代治疗产科瘘的医生，并且开创了一种其他国家纷纷效仿的模式。
At a 90th birthday party for Dr. Hamlin in January, former patients cheered as she blew out 90 candles on a cake. Her son, Richard, referring to the patients she has helped, declared: “Catherine has one son and 35,000 daughters.”
今年1月，在庆祝哈姆林博士90岁生日的宴会上，当她吹灭蛋糕上的90根蜡烛时，以前的患者纷纷欢呼庆祝。她的儿子理查德(Richard)提到她所帮助过的病人时说，“凯瑟琳有一个儿子和35000个女儿。”
Dr. Hamlin gave the crowd a pep talk about the need for a big push to improve the world’s maternal care. “We have to eradicate Ethiopia of this awful thing that’s happening to women: suffering, untold suffering, in the countryside,” she said. “I leave this with you to do in the future, to carry on.”
哈姆林博士向在场人员发表了鼓励性的讲话，表示需要大力推动改善全世界的产妇护理工作。“我们必须使埃塞俄比亚的女性远离这种可怕的事情：乡村女性的这种难以言表的痛苦，”她说，“我把这项工作留给你们在未来完成。”
Ethiopia this month nominated Dr. Hamlin for the Nobel Peace Prize, and she deserves it. I hope she gets it along with other extraordinary leaders in women’s health such as Dr. Denis Mukwege of Congo, Dr. Hawa Abdi of Somalia, and Edna Adan of Somaliland.
埃塞俄比亚本月提名哈姆林博士角逐诺贝尔和平奖。她理应获得这一荣誉。我希望她与女性健康方面的其他卓越领头人一同获奖，比如刚果的丹尼斯·穆夸格博士(Denis Mukwege)、索马里的哈瓦·阿卜迪博士(Hawa Abdi)，以及索马里兰的埃德娜·阿丹(Edna Adan)等。
One of the most striking features of Dr. Hamlin’s work is the way she empowers recovering fistula patients to help in the treatment of others.
在哈姆林博士的工作中，最显著的一个特点是，她让康复的产科瘘患者帮助治疗其他人。
Mahabouba Muhammad was sold at age 13 to be the second wife of a 60-year-old man. She became pregnant, delivered by herself in the bush and suffered a severe fistula. Villagers, believing Mahabouba to be cursed, left her for the hyenas. But she fought off the hyenas and — because nerve damage from labor had left her unable to walk — crawled for miles to get help. At Dr. Hamlin’s hospital, she underwent surgery and now is a nurse’s aide at the hospital.
马哈布巴·穆罕默德(Mahabouba Muhammad)13岁时被卖给一个60岁的男人，成为他的第二名妻子。她怀孕了，自己在灌木丛中生产，结果患上严重的瘘病。村民们认为，马哈布巴受到了诅咒，把她扔给鬣狗，但她打跑了鬣狗。由于分娩致使她神经受损，无法走动，马哈布巴爬行了数英里才获救。在哈姆林博士的医院里，马哈布巴接受了手术。她目前在这家医院里担任护士助理。
Another former fistula patient is Mamitu Gashe, who helped doctors during her recovery and was soon recognized as a first-rate talent. Mamitu was illiterate but learned to perform complex fistula repairs and, because the hospital does so many, has become one of the world’s experts in fistula surgery.
曾经患有瘘病的马米图·加舍(Mamitu Gashe)在康复期间帮助医生工作，很快就被认定为天赋异禀。马米图不识字，却学会了进行复杂的瘘孔修补手术。由于这家医院做了大量的修补手术，她已经成为了产科瘘手术领域的世界级专家之一。
When distinguished professors of obstetrics from around the world come to this hospital for training in fistula repair, their teacher has often been Mamitu.
当世界各地的知名产科教授来到这所医院接受瘘孔修补培训时，他们的老师通常是马米图。
Dr. Hamlin has had difficult moments, including upheavals in her hospital organization, but through it all has relentlessly focused on helping rural women. She also trains professional midwives and posts them in underserved areas — because 85 percent of births in Ethiopia take place without a doctor or nurse present.
哈姆林博士经历过艰难险阻，比如医院组织的大变动，但在此期间，她一直将注意力集中到帮助乡村女性上。她还培养了一批专业助产士，安排她们前往医疗匮乏的地区工作——因为在埃塞俄比亚，85%的产妇在没有医生或护士在场的情况下产子。
Lack of medical care makes reproductive health in poor countries a human rights catastrophe. One fistula sufferer told me how her husband abandoned her and her parents built a separate hut for her at the edge of the village so that no one would be bothered by her smell. She barely ate or drank because everything she consumed would soon be trickling down her legs. She fell into deep depression.
医疗的匮乏使穷国的生殖健康成为了人权灾难。一名产科瘘患者对我说，她的丈夫抛弃了她，父母在村边为她建了一座孤零零的棚屋，免得她身上的气味打扰其他人。她几乎不怎么吃喝，因为吞下的所有东西都会很快沿着双腿流出来。她陷入了深深的绝望。
“I just curled up for two years,” she said. Finally, her parents heard about Dr. Hamlin’s hospital and she was repaired.
“我就这么蜷着过了两年，”她说。最终，她的父母听说了哈姆林的医院。她被治愈了。
The cost of a fistula surgery? About $500 to $1,000.
产科瘘的手术费用是多少呢？大约要花500到1000美元（约合6000元人民币）。
Dr. Hamlin’s hospital is supported in the United States by Hamlin Fistula USA, while the Fistula Foundation supports fistula repairs worldwide.
在美国，哈姆林的医院获得了美国哈姆林产科瘘组织(Hamlin Fistula USA)的支持，世界范围内的瘘病治疗则由哈姆林基金会(Fistula Foundation)来资助。
In much of the world, the most dangerous thing a woman can do is become pregnant, and 800 die daily in childbirth. Many more suffer injuries. Liberals and conservatives joust over abortion policies, but the basic task of making childbirth safer never gets adequate attention or resources. Bravo to Representative Rosa DeLauro, a Democrat from Connecticut, for preparing legislation that would support global efforts to prevent and repair fistulas.
在全球许多地方，一名女性所能经历的最危险的事就是怀孕，每天都有800人因分娩身亡，还有更多人受伤。美国的自由派和保守派在为堕胎政策交锋，可是让分娩更安全的基本任务却从未得到足够的关注或资源。让我们为罗莎·L·德劳罗(Rosa DeLauro)喝彩，因为这名来自康涅狄格州的民主党众议员准备了立法提案，希望支持在全球范围内采取措施预防和治疗产科瘘。
It was Dr. Hamlin who first put the issue on the global agenda, and she’s not stopping. “We’re trying to prevent these injuries and wake up the world,” Dr. Hamlin told me this week.
哈姆林博士是把这项议题提上全球议程的第一人，她没有就此止步。本周，她对我说，“我们正在设法预防这类损伤，设法唤醒全世界。”
So for just a moment let’s take a break from covering villains and join in celebrating a doctor who has saved the lives of vast numbers of women — and now counts some of them as colleagues.
所以，在这一时半刻，让我们暂停对反面人物的报道，加入到赞美一名医生的队列里。她挽救了大批女性的生命，而且现在，把其中的一些人变为了她的同事。