BAGHDAD — A picture of Gertrude Bell, the British diplomat and spy, still hangs on a wall in the Alwiya Club, the Baghdad clubhouse for the social elite that she established, and black-and-white photographs of her can be found in the collections of the city’s old families.
巴格达——阿尔维亚俱乐部的墙上，仍旧挂着英国女外交官兼间谍格特鲁德·贝尔(Gertrude Bell)的照片 。这家服务于当地社会名流的俱乐部是当年她亲自创建的，她的黑白照片还会出现在当地名流望族的照片收藏之中。
More than anyone else, she is credited with creating modern Iraq — drawing its borders, choosing its king — after the upheavals of World War I. She also died here, and her raised tomb surrounded by jasmine bushes in a British cemetery has been tended for decades by a man named Ali Mansour.
贝尔被认为是在第一次世界大战的动荡后建立现代伊拉克最重要的人物——划定它的疆界，甚至挑选它的国王。她也在这里去世。几十年来，一位名叫阿里·曼苏尔(Ali Mansour)的男子一直看守着她在一处英国人墓地中、被茉莉花丛环绕的高大墓穴。
“We love her around here,” Mr. Mansour said. “She brought Iraqis together.”
“我们这里的人热爱她，”曼苏尔说。“她把伊拉克人团结在一起。”
Today, though, her legacy, which has always been fragile, is at risk of being undone amid the renewed sectarian violence that has already seen Sunni militants effectively erase the border she drew between Iraq and Syria and raised the possibility of Iraq fracturing into Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish territories. Seen through the experience of Iraq’s tumultuous recent past, the decisions made by Miss Bell, as she is still affectionately referred to by Iraqis, and others working for the British and French to reorder the Middle East after the Ottoman Empire collapsed nearly a century ago, hold cautionary lessons for those seeking to bring stability or seek advantage in the region now.
但是在今天，贝尔的政治遗产在卷土重来的教派冲突下已经被严重削弱，甚至可能毁于一旦。她当年划定的伊拉克与叙利亚的边界，已经被逊尼派武装分子基本抹去。伊拉克面临着分裂为逊尼派、什叶派和库尔德领地的危险。将近一个世纪之前，在一战之后，奥斯曼帝国分崩离析之时，贝尔与她的英法同僚们一起重新建立了中东秩序。鉴于伊拉克近年来的动荡局面，这位至今仍被伊拉克人亲切称为“贝尔小姐”的女外交官当年所付出的卓绝努力，仍旧能为今天试图恢复稳定并谋取利益的种种势力引为借鉴。
While claimed by the Iraqis as one of their own, Miss Bell was an agent for her own country, advancing the interests of the British to secure influence, and oil, in Iraq, and to counter the efforts of Germany to position itself as a beneficiary of the decline of the Ottoman Turks, who had lost their hold over the Balkans and were quickly losing their control over the Arabs.
尽管伊拉克人把贝尔小姐当做自己人，但她仍旧是英国政府的代表，当年她的行动目标是为英国争取政治和石油利益，并抗衡德国在奥斯曼土耳其帝国衰落之际试图分一杯羹的努力。当时奥斯曼帝国失去了对巴尔干地区的控制，并且对于阿拉伯人的控制力也正在迅速消弭。
As a member of the Arab Bureau, the British intelligence office in Cairo during the war, she, along with her countryman T. E. Lawrence, helped rally the Arab revolt against the Turks from 1916 to 1918, arming the Arabs and promising them an independent Arab state. As the revolt unfolded, diplomats secretly agreed to carve up the Middle East into French and British spheres in the Sykes-Picot Agreement, an accord named after the envoys who wrote it.
作为一战期间英国驻开罗情报部门“阿拉伯局”的成员，贝尔与同事T.E.劳伦斯(T. E. Lawrence)一道鼓动了阿拉伯人在1916年和1918年反抗土耳其人的起义，为阿拉伯人提供武装，并许诺他们建立独立的阿拉伯国家。随着起义展开，英法外交官们秘密缔结了《赛克斯-皮科协定》(Sykes-Picot Agreement)，这个以双方缔约代表命名的协定将中东划分为英法势力圈。
In her time, she was considered more influential than Lawrence over British policy in Arabia. But in the decades since, it was Lawrence who went on to greater fame, burnished by his own book, “Seven Pillars of Wisdom,” and an Oscar-winning movie that immortalized his role.
在她的时代，贝尔对英国阿拉伯政策的影响力被认为高于劳伦斯。但在其后几十年，劳伦斯因为撰写了《智慧的七根石柱》(Seven Pillars of Wisdom)以及以他为主角的奥斯卡获奖电影《阿拉伯的劳伦斯》而声名鹊起，获得了不朽的地位。
“She wanted to keep a low profile, while Lawrence wanted to have as great a profile as he could get,” said Janet Wallach, who has written a biography of Miss Bell.
为贝尔撰写过一部传记的作家简奈特·瓦拉克(Janet Wallach)说：“她想保持低调，而劳伦斯则不遗余力地追求名声。”
Now, though, Miss Bell may finally earn the broader fame that she worked hard to keep in abeyance. She will be the subject of a Hollywood film, in which she will be played by Nicole Kidman, as well as a full-length documentary, “Letters from Baghdad,” by the filmmakers Zeva Oelbaum and Sabine Krayenbuhl, who previously worked together on a film about the journalist Ruth Gruber.
今天，贝尔小姐或许即将获得她努力试图掩盖的声誉。好莱坞即将拍摄一部以她为主角的电影，由妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)扮演贝尔小姐；而泽瓦·欧尔鲍姆(Zeva Oelbaum)和萨宾·克拉延布尔(Sabine Krayenbuhl)也将拍摄一部关于她的全长纪录片《巴格达来信》(Letters from Baghdad)。这两位电影人此前曾合作过一部以传奇记者露丝·格鲁伯(Ruth Gruber)为原型的电影。
Miss Bell’s life and legacy was also the subject of an international scholarly conference last year in London, the first of its kind.
贝尔小姐的生平还成为去年在伦敦举行的一场国际会议的主题，这也是首次举行此类国际会议。
In an opening speech at the conference, Saad Eskander, director of Iraq’s national library and archives, referred to Lawrence’s fame in the Middle East and then said, “But in Iraq, it is only Gertrude Bell who occupies an exceptional place both in the imagination of its ordinary people and in the mind of its cultural and political elites.”
在会议的开幕致辞中，伊拉克国家图书档案馆馆长萨阿德·埃斯坎德尔(Saad Eskander)提到了劳伦斯在中东地区的名声，然后说道：“但是在伊拉克，只有格特鲁德·贝尔能够同时在普通民众的想象中，以及在文化政治精英的头脑中占据卓越地位。”
This burst of cultural output about her life, which scholars hope will elevate her to what they believe is her rightful place in history, comes at a time when the core of her legacy — the effort to knit Iraq’s volatile mix of religious sects and ethnicities into a stable nation — has once again become vital to the region and the world. And it is focusing new attention on the degree to which decisions made by the European powers for their own gain during Miss Bell’s time helped create the divisions that are once again bloodying the Middle East.
学者们希望，这一批有关贝尔生平的文化作品能够将她的历史地位提升到她当之无愧的高度。与此同时，贝尔的政治遗产中最重要的部分——将动荡不安、宗教和种族派系盘根错节的伊拉克团结为一个稳定的国家——再次牵动着该地区和全世界的命脉。它也提醒全世界，在贝尔小姐的时代，欧洲大国为自身利益做出的政治决定也造成了延续至今的分歧，而这些分歧在相当大的程度上仍旧在中东制造着战乱与流血。
“This lie to the Arabs is why we have these problems today,” said Sharif Ali bin Hussein, a descendant of King Faisal, who became the leader of Iraq, under a British mandate, in 1921.
“这个蒙骗阿拉伯人的谎言正是我们今天问题的根源，”谢里夫·阿里·本·侯赛因(Sharif Ali bin Hussein)说。他是1921年被英国扶上伊拉克国王王位的费萨尔国王(King Faisal)的后裔。
He continued, saying that the problems of today’s Middle East are, “a result of the European colonial avarice.”
他接着说，中东地区今天的乱象就是“欧洲殖民者狡诈的结果。”
Mr. Hussein, who lives in Baghdad in a house once owned by Saddam Hussein’s brother, holds Miss Bell apart from this. He described her as one of the few true friends to the Arabs, who, despite the decisions of her government, worked hard for the cause of Arab self-determination. “I think Gertrude Bell’s role in this was she was very much on the side of the Arabs,” he said.
侯赛因先生目前住在巴格达一座曾经为萨达姆·侯赛因的兄弟所拥有的宅子里。他并不认为贝尔小姐是这些狡诈的欧洲殖民势力的一员。他把她描述为阿拉伯人仅有的真诚朋友之一。尽管她的政府欺骗了阿拉伯人，但她为帮助阿拉伯民族自决事业鞠躬尽瘁。“我认为格特鲁德·贝尔在其中的作用是，她在很大程度上与阿拉伯人站在一起。”
Some critics, including Mr. Eskander, point to Miss Bell’s legacy in empowering a Sunni elite as a new political class, at the expense of the majority Shiite population, and say it helped set the conditions for today’s rampant sectarianism. “She wanted the British to make a deal with the Sunni elite at the time, at the expense of the rest of the population,” he said.
包括埃斯坎德尔先生在内，贝尔的一些批评者指出她曾经扶助逊尼派精英成为一个新的政治阶层，因而损害了占人口多数的什叶派的利益，并且认为这为当今的宗派冲突创造了条件。“她想让英国政府和那时的逊尼派的精英阶层达成协议，而这种协议会损坏逊尼派以外人群的利益，”他说。
Still, with some reverence, Mr. Eskander calls her “the first lady of Iraq, the real queen of Iraq.”
尽管如此，埃斯坎德尔先生仍旧对贝尔表示尊敬，称她为“伊拉克的第一夫人，伊拉克真正的女王。”
Georgina Howell, who wrote a biography of Miss Bell and is currently editing a new anthology of her writings, wrote in an email, “For the Sunni-Shia violence, do not blame Miss Bell. The Turks gave unjustified privilege to the Sunnis for 300 years.”
曾为贝尔小姐著传、目前仍在编辑贝尔作品选集的乔治娜·霍维尔(Georgina Howell)说：“不要把逊尼-什叶冲突归咎于贝尔小姐。土耳其人给了逊尼派300年之久的毫无理由的特权。”
In supporting the Sunni elite — many of whom were former Ottoman soldiers — she also reached out to the Shiite community. One of her most important relationships was with Haji Naji, a Shiite and one of Baghdad’s most prominent landlords at the time. Many days she rode her horse to meet Haji Naji for a picnic in his orchards, where he offered advice on how to deal with the Shiite community and Iraq’s many other factions.
贝尔一方面支持逊尼派精英——其中很多是前奥斯曼帝国的军人——同时也团结什叶派。她最重要的关系之一是什叶派人士哈吉·纳吉(Haji Naji)，他是当年巴格达最大的地主之一。她经常骑马到哈吉·纳吉的苹果园中与他野餐，他则向她传授如何与什叶派及诸多其他教派打交道的技巧。
Despite the reverence in which she is still held here today, the truth is that her dream of a unified, peaceful and prosperous Iraq has been unfulfilled. The Americans encountered the same problems she did in trying to forge a national consensus from a disparate patchwork of ethnicities (Arab and Kurd) and sects (Sunnis and Shiites).
尽管今天的伊拉克仍旧对贝尔小姐尊崇有加，她梦想中的统一、和平、兴盛的伊拉克却并未实现。近年来美国人试图在不同种族（阿拉伯人和库尔德人）与教派（逊尼派和什叶派）之间建立全民共识的过程中，遇到了和她同样的问题。