In the name of art, she has hung naked on a wall and carved into her own stomach with a razor. She has masturbated in a museum; scrubbed at a pile of bloody, maggoty bones in a fetid basement; stood still while strangers put a gun to her head and stabbed her with thorns; and, in her best-known work, sat silently for seven hours a day, six days a week, as a succession of people lined up to bask in her aura at the Museum of Modern Art.
以艺术的名义，她赤裸着悬挂在墙上，把一把剃刀插进自己的胃里。她在博物馆里自慰；她在恶臭的地下室里刷洗一堆血淋淋的、生蛆的骨头；她站着一动不动，让陌生人拿枪指着她的头，用荆棘刺她；她最著名的作品是在MoMA每天安静地坐七个小时，一周坐六天，一连串的观众排队感受她的气息。
And now, Marina Abramovic, the celebrated performance artist, is embarking on perhaps the most ambitious project yet of her outrageous, audacious four-decade career. In the small town of Hudson, N.Y., she plans to construct a high temple to long-duration work in performance and other arts, a 33,000-square-foot center called the Marina Abramovic Institute that is to be the culmination of her life’s work: a place, she says, that can be a Bauhaus for our time, a mecca for artists, scientists and thinkers, as well as people willing to put on white lab coats and undergo three hours of mind-and-body cleansing exercises.
如今，著名行为艺术家玛丽娜·阿布拉莫维奇(Marina Abramovic)正在进行她40年惊人而大胆的事业中最具野心的项目。她计划在纽约州小镇哈德森，为行为艺术和其他艺术的持久性作品建一个圣殿。这个33000平方英尺的圣殿名叫玛丽娜·阿布拉莫维奇学院，该学院将成为她一生事业的顶点：她说这个地方可以是我们这个时代的包豪斯学院，是艺术家、科学家和思想家的圣地，愿意穿上实验室白大褂进行三个小时心灵和身体净化功的人也可以来这里。
The plans reflect the turn Ms. Abramovic has taken in recent years, in a career of two distinct parts. Part 1: Ms. Abramovic, the avant-garde, inward-looking Belgrade-born experimentalist, stretching the boundaries by subjecting herself to punishing physical and mental extremes. Part 2: Ms. Abramovic, the post-MoMA celebrity darling, collaborating with movie, pop and hip-hop stars; posing glamorously on magazine covers; and the subject of a biography, a documentary, an opera and a video game.
这些计划反映了阿布拉莫维奇近些年的转变。她的事业分成两个不同的阶段。第一阶段的阿布拉莫维奇是个生于贝尔格莱德的内向的先锋实验主义者，她不断越界，让自己接受身体和精神上的极端处罚。第二阶段的阿布拉莫维奇在MoMA举办了展览后成为名流宠儿，开始与电影明星、流行音乐明星和嘻哈音乐明星合作，在杂志封面上摆出光鲜的造型，还成了一本传记、一部纪录片、一部戏剧和一个电子游戏的主角。
All this has not been universally acclaimed. Mistrustful and possibly envious, some performance artists and critics are accusing Ms. Abramovic of cultivating something suspiciously like a cult of personality. She seems so enamored of the spotlight, they say — so caught up in dancing with Jay-Z, doing mind-cleansing exercises with Lady Gaga and hanging out with James Franco — that she is in danger of disappearing down the rabbit hole of her own mythology, betraying not only her own roots but also, perhaps, the true nature of performance art itself.
所有这些并没有得到普遍称赞。一些行为艺术家和批评家带着猜疑或者是出于嫉妒，指责阿布拉莫维奇培养了一种疑似个人崇拜的东西。他们说她似乎太过迷恋聚光灯——她被拍到和杰斯(Jay-Z)一起跳舞，和Lady Gaga一起做心灵净化仪式，和詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)一起闲逛——以至于她有可能掉进自己神话的兔子洞中，不仅背叛了自己的根，也许还背叛了行为艺术的本质。
Performance art refers, broadly, to live experimental pieces that are not theater and that tend to emphasize the direct, unmediated relationship between artist and audience. There are no rules or boundaries to the form. But in the 1970s, when performance art became acknowledged as a legitimate art medium in the United States, many practitioners adhered to the principle that it should never be reperformed or commodified.
广义的行为艺术指的是现场的、实验性的作品，它不是戏剧，强调艺术家和观众之间直接的、不需要媒介的联系。这种艺术形式没有规则，也没有界限。但是在20世纪70年代，当行为艺术在美国被认可为一种正当的艺术形式之后，很多行为艺术家坚持这个原则：它永远都不应该被重演或者被商品化。
Which helps explain why a video of Jay-Z and Ms. Abramovic dancing somewhat awkwardly together at the Pace Gallery in July provoked such disdain across the Internet. “The Day Performance Art Died,” the online art magazine Hyperallergic said in its headline.
这能解释为什么杰斯和阿布拉莫维奇7月份在佩斯画廊(Pace Gallery)一起笨拙共舞的视频在网上引起了那么多鄙视。在线艺术杂志《Hyperallergic》的标题是“行为艺术死亡之日”。
Lindsay Zoladz, a writer at Pitchfork, an online music publication, wrote on Twitter: “The video in ‘Infinite Jest’ that entertains you to death has finally come.” While not going that far, some critics say they believe Ms. Abramovic has stepped over some invisible line, from artist to personality.
在线音乐出版物《Pitchfork》的撰稿人琳赛·佐拉兹(Lindsay Zoladz)在Twitter上写道：“《无尽的玩笑》(Infinite Jest)中提到的能让你笑死的视频终于出现了。”还有些批评家虽然没有说得这么过分，但是他们认为阿布拉莫维奇越过了某种无形的界线，从艺术家变成了名人。
“I respect Marina a lot in the overall sense, but I think the art world has lost its mind,” said Amelia Jones, a professor of art history at McGill University. “I keep wondering what’s next — is she going to set up her own small country somewhere?”
“总的来说我十分尊重玛丽娜，但我认为艺术界失去了理智，”麦吉尔大学的艺术史教授艾米莉亚·琼斯(Amelia Jones)说，“我一直在想她下一步会做什么——在什么地方建一个自己的小王国？”
Such talk barely ruffles Ms. Abramovic, who says her renown has allowed her to fulfill her dream of disseminating her ideas about art and culture to an audience far beyond the narrow confines of the art world.
这样的评论没有惹阿布拉莫维奇生气，她说名气能让自己实现一个梦想：把她对艺术和文化的想法传播给艺术圈之外的观众。
“When I stood up from the chair, I was changed,” she said in an interview last month, speaking of the moment she rose to her feet at the end of “The Artist Is Present,” her 2010 Museum of Modern Art piece. “I knew long duration was the answer to everything for me. And, with this, came the idea of the institute in the most clear form.”
“当我从椅子上站起来的时候，我改变了，”她上个月接受采访的时候说。她指的是2010年在MoMA表演完“艺术家在此”(The Artist Is Present)之后站起来的那一刻。“我知道持续性是我一切问题的答案。因此，我有了建立学院的清晰想法。”
She added: “Now I understand that my work is not my work anymore. It’s about culture in general, about changing the consciousness of human beings on this planet.”
她补充说：“现在我知道我的作品不再只属于我自己。它是关于整个文化的，是要改变这个星球上人类的意识。”
Seemingly ageless at 66, Ms. Abramovic is just as striking, just as seductive, just as charismatic in person as her work would suggest. In conversation, she leans in close and speaks with an intimate urgency, her voice a low, soft, Slavic-accented purr that brings to mind both Christiane Amanpour and Natasha the Eastern Bloc cartoon spy. She is, by turns, serious and playful, self-aggrandizing and self-aware, earnest and funny. “I know this can sound pretentious,” she said at one point.
阿布拉莫维奇已经66岁了，可是一点儿都不显老。她本人和她的作品一样引人注目、极富诱惑力和魅力。谈话的时候，她身体微微前倾，话里带着一种亲密的紧迫感，声音低沉、柔和，带有斯拉夫语的喉音，让人想起了克里斯汀·阿曼普(Christiane Amanpour)和东欧动画片中的间谍娜塔莎(Natasha)。她时而严肃，时而幽默；时而自夸，时而自谦；时而诚恳，时而风趣。“我知道这听上去有点自命不凡，”她一度这样说。
Speaking in her office in SoHo, she revealed that her ambition for her new institute is virtually boundless. It will not be a celebration of her work per se, she said, but something greater, a “cultural spa.”
我们是在她位于SoHo的办公室做的采访。她透露说，她对新学院的野心实际上是无限的。她说，那个学院不是为了纪念她的作品，而是为了更宏大的东西，它是“一个文化水疗馆”。
“It’s really about immaterial work, a collaboration between art, science, spirituality and technology,” Ms. Abramovic said. “It’s almost like a new idea of Bauhaus — how the different minds from different fields come together to create some kind of new reality.”
“它实际上是关于非物质性作品的，是艺术、科学、精神和科技的结合，”阿布拉莫维奇说，“它差不多算是一个新的包豪斯学院——不同领域的头脑汇集到一起，创造出某种新的事实。”
She intends to remove herself from the institute once she builds it. “It’s not about my work,” she said. “It’s about culture itself.”
她打算在学院建好之后，就马上抽身出去。“它不是关于我的作品的，”她说，“它是关于文化本身的。”
This is more complicated than it sounds, given that her name will be on the institute, and given how she envisions how the public might experience it. The current thinking is to have visitors pay $75 each and pledge in writing to remain in the building for at least six hours, half of it to be spent undergoing the “Abramovic Method”: three hours of mind-and-body cleansing exercises.
事实比听上去的要复杂，要知道，学院将以她命名，而且她还设计了公众体验它的方式。目前的考虑是让每个游客支付75美元，书面保证至少在学院里停留六个小时，其中一半的时间用在体验“阿布拉莫维奇方式”，也就是要练三个小时的心灵和身体净化功。
There are people who are deeply skeptical, starting with performance art purists who feel that Ms. Abramovic has betrayed the form by reperforming pieces at all. They have been critical of not just the MoMA show, which included a retrospective of Ms. Abramovic’s career and re-enactments of some early work, but also her 2005 Guggenheim show, “Seven Easy Pieces.”
有些人对此深表怀疑，首先是那些行为艺术纯化论者，他们认为阿布拉莫维奇背叛了这种艺术形式，因为她进行了再次表演。他们不仅质疑MoMA的那次展览——其中包括对阿布拉莫维奇事业的回顾以及对她的一些早期作品的重现——而且质疑2005年她在古根海姆艺术馆的展览——“七个简单的作品”(Seven Easy Pieces)。
There, Ms. Abramovic reperformed two of her works and five by other artists, including Vito Acconci’s “Seedbed,” a 1972 piece in which Mr. Acconci sat out of sight beneath a ramp in a New York gallery, masturbating and talking dirty, his X-rated monologue broadcast to visitors above.
在那次展览中，阿布拉莫维奇再次表演了自己的两个作品以及其他艺术家的五个作品，其中包括维托·阿肯锡(Vito Acconci)1972年的作品“苗圃”(Seedbed)——他在纽约画廊的一个斜坡下面观众看不见的地方一边自慰一边说着下流的独白，播放给上面的观众。
Mr. Acconci, who abandoned performance art in the 1980s for sculpture and installations, said in an interview that he believes performance art to be, by definition, ephemeral, that he questions whether it should be done again at all, and that he wonders if building an institute to celebrate the medium even makes sense. “I think what she’s doing is turning performance into theater,” Mr. Acconci said.
阿肯锡在20世纪80年代放弃了行为艺术，开始创作雕塑和装置作品。他在一次采访中说，行为艺术从定义上讲就是一次性的，所以他怀疑它是否应该被重演，他还怀疑建一个学院来纪念这种艺术形式是否合理。“我觉得她在是把行为艺术变成戏剧，”阿肯锡说。
“It’s not necessarily her fault that she became a big name,” he added. “But I wonder if, when this person has this glorification, reputation, whatever, they start to become more like a music performer, someone who people gather around and turn into a star figure.”
“她变成名人不一定是她的错，”他补充说，“但是我在想，当一个人有这样的荣耀和声誉，他/她是不是变得更像音乐表演者，更像那种被人们包围的明星式的人物。”
Klaus Biesenbach, who was the curator of Ms. Abramovic’s MoMA show and is a longtime friend, said the institute was an effort by the artist to redirect the conversation away from herself.
克劳斯·比森巴赫(Klaus Biesenbach)是阿布拉莫维奇在MoMA的那次展览的策展人，也是她的老朋友。他说，这位艺术家开设学院是为了转移人们对她的议论。
“She is aware of the danger she is in and is looking for another subject and object of her work by redirecting the attention and love, or whatever, not to herself, but to the institute,” he said. Also, he said, if she has celebrity friends, it is because he introduced her to them.
“她意识到自己所处的危险，她想把人们对她的注意力和喜爱转移到学院上，以便寻找新的创作主题和对象，”他说。他还说，如果说她有名人朋友，那是因为他把她介绍给了他们。
“I don’t think she’s leaving who she was,” he said. “It’s just that this is New York.”
“我觉得她没变，”他说，“只是因为这里是纽约。”
The actor James Franco, who appeared with Ms. Abramovic on the September cover of L’Uomo Vogue and is the subject of a documentary she says she plans to make, said by e-mail that “fame is very seductive” but hardly a sin.
演员詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)和阿布拉莫维奇一同出现在《Vogue》意大利男装版9月刊的封面上。她还计划拍摄一部以他为主题的纪录片。弗兰科在邮件中说，“名声很有诱惑力”，但它算不上是罪过。
“When she first did it, not many people knew about it, and she was very poor,” he said, speaking of her art. “Now that she has success, critics want her to go back to living in a van?”
“她刚开始从事行为艺术的时候，没多少人了解行为艺术，她很穷，”他说，“现在她成功了，难道批评家们还想让她住回运货车里？”
This summer, Ms. Abramovic turned to Kickstarter to raise $600,000 for an early phase in the building of the institute, which is being designed by the architects Rem Koolhaas and Shohei Shigematsu, and which she hopes might open in 2014. Aided by a computer game that allowed participants to perform Abramovic Method-style tasks electronically, like separating and counting sesame seeds and rice grains, and a much-watched video of a sometimes naked Lady Gaga undergoing the method with Ms. Abramovic in Hudson, the effort raised $661,452.
今年夏天，阿布拉莫维奇为初步创建学院在Kickstarter上募集60万美元。该学院是由建筑师雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)和重松象平(Shohei Shigematsu)设计，她希望能在2014年开幕。在一个电脑游戏和一个视频的帮助下，阿布拉莫维奇筹集了661452美元。通过那个电脑游戏，参与者可以在电脑上练阿布拉莫维奇功，比如把芝麻籽和米粒分开并计数。在那个热播视频中，有时赤裸的Lady Gaga和阿布拉莫维奇一起在哈德森练这种功。
The method, Ms. Abramovic explained, flows from exercises she devised to prepare participants to enact or experience art. Examples include swimming naked in a freezing river, expressing your anger to a tree, spending an hour drinking a glass of water, or walking for four hours in one direction and four hours in another.
阿布拉莫维奇解释说，这个功来自她为参与者设计的练习，目的在于帮助参与者为体验艺术做好准备。这些练习包括在寒冷的河中裸泳，对一棵树表达你的愤怒，花一个小时喝一杯水，或者朝一个方向走四个小时，然后朝另一个方向走四个小时。
At the institute, visitors will be issued white lab coats and ushered from room to room as they follow the method: pressing their bodies against crystals, perhaps, or lying atop a platform, or meditating wearing blindfolds and earplugs. (Should they fall asleep, staff members will wheel them into a rest chamber and leave them there.) After all that, they will be released to experience the institute’s performance spaces, lecture hall, artworks, cafe and library.
在学院里，参观者们将穿上实验室白大褂，被领进一个个房间，完成每项练习：把他们的身体压到水晶上，或者躺在一个平台上，或者戴着眼罩和耳塞冥想（要是他们睡着了的话，工作人员将把他们推到休息室里，把他们留在那里）。完成所有这些步骤之后，他们将被允许体验该学院的表演厅、讲座厅、艺术作品、咖啡馆和图书馆。
Ms. Abramovic says that some of the ideas are “crazy,” but that does not dampen her excitement.
阿布拉莫维奇说，其中有些想法“很疯狂”，但是并不抑制她的兴奋。
“One idea is to take 250 drops of blood of the most important human beings on this planet who contribute to humanity — in science, technology, writers, filmmakers, whatever,” she said. Once a year, “the most important shaman of that century,” she explained, would energize the blood drops, using the “life force” that connects body to blood.
她说，“其中一个想法是从这个星球上对人类贡献最大的250个人身上分别取一滴血——包括科学界和科技界的人物、作家和电影制作人等。”她解释说，每年一次，“那个世纪最重要的巫师”将用连接身体和血液的“生命力量”把这些血滴激活。
As she says, the possibilities are endless.
就像她说的，有无尽的可能性。
“Artists have to be the servant to society,” she said. She loves the seeming contradiction: creating an institute in her name, but then bequeathing it to others.
“艺术家必须服务社会，”她说。她喜欢表面上的自相矛盾：以自己的名字创立一个学院，但是随后传给他人。
“Ego is a huge obstacle to art,” she said.
“自我是艺术的大敌，”她说。