When Erin Chavez, a college history teacher, and her husband, Daniel, a special-education teacher, moved to East Northport with their two young children two years ago, they had chosen their house mainly for its low price, convenient location and good school system. They got warm and friendly neighbors in the bargain.
两年前，高校历史教师艾琳·查维斯(Erin Chavez)和她的丈夫、特殊教育教师丹尼尔(Daniel)带着两个年幼的孩子搬到了东诺斯波特(East Northport)，当时他们之所以选择了现在的住处，主要是因为它价格较低，位置方便，周边的学校也好。这笔交易还为他们带来了热心肠而友好的邻居。
“It’s unbelievable how nice people are,” Ms. Chavez said. Neighbors, some of them second- or third-generation East Northporters, have plowed the couple’s driveway after snowfalls and cut up a tree that came down on their property.
“这些人太好了，简直令人不敢相信，”查维斯夫人说。邻居们曾在雪后帮夫妇俩在车道上铲雪，还砍掉了一棵倒向他们家房子的树。有些邻居已经是第二代或第三代东诺斯波特居民了。
For $299,000, the Chavezes, who had been living in an apartment in Bayside, Queens, bought a three-bedroom two-bath house on a quarter-acre. It required renovation, she said, but is close to parks and an elementary school and within easy commuting distance to their jobs, hers at Queensborough Community College and his at a Westbury middle school.
查维斯夫妇花了29.9万美元（约合人民币184万元），买下这套三室两卫、面积四分之一英亩（约合1012平方米）的房子。此前他们住在皇后区贝塞(Bayside)的一套公寓里。查维斯夫人说，这套房子当时需要装修，但是附近有公园，还有一所不错的小学，而且通勤也比较方便，他们的上班地点分别在皇后区社区学院(Queensborough Community College)和韦斯特伯里中学(Westbury middle school)。
“East Northport is one of those hidden gems,” said Shari L. Will, an agent with Town and Country Homes of Long Island. Though it doesn’t have the waterfront location or village bustle of Northport, its better-known and generally more expensive neighbor to the north, the hamlet of East Northport shares the same highly rated school district — and without village taxes. (Houses with East Northport addresses that are outside the hamlet, or census-designated place, are mostly in the Commack or Elwood school districts, also well regarded.) The hamlet offers “all the shopping you’ll ever need, plus tons of playgrounds and parks for the kids,” Ms. Will said.
“东诺斯波特是尚未被发掘的一处宝地，”长岛的Town and Country Homes公司的经纪人夏里·L·威尔(Shari L. Will)说。尽管这里不像诺斯波特(Northport)那样，拥有滨水地段或乡村的热闹氛围（位于北部的诺斯波特更加有名，整体房价也更高），东诺斯波特的村庄也有同样备受推崇的学区——而且不用交村庄房产税（有的住宅，地址是属于东诺斯波特的、但位于村庄或人口普查指定区之外，大多在康马克[Commack]或埃尔伍德[Elwood]学区，也是热门学区）。在这个村子里，“你需要什么都能买到，而且还有大片的运动场和公园，可供孩子们玩耍。”威尔说。
The shopping tends to be in strip malls or stores lining Larkfield Road, a busy thoroughfare not conducive to strolling. But the streets in most of the neighborhoods are quiet and largely free of traffic, with many cul-de-sacs.
购物场所一般在拉克菲尔德路(Larkfield Road)边一字排开的购物广场或商店里。这是一条繁忙的大道，不适合闲逛。不过这片社区的大部分街道都很安静，车流非常畅通，有许多小巷是死胡同。
Many people who grew up in East Northport have stayed or returned. “It’s very family oriented,” said Debbi Penza, an agent at Signature Premier Properties who has lived there since 1991. Her three children, now adults, have all come back, she said, at least for now.
很多在东诺斯波特长大的人，都选择了留在这里，或从外地归来。“这里的人很注重家庭，”地产公司Signature Premier Properties的经纪人黛比·彭萨(Debbi Penza)说，她从1991年开始一直居住在这里。她说，她的三个孩子现在都已成年，他们都从外地回来了，至少现在还不会走。
Tony Cancelleire is among those who returned after living in East Northport as a boy. “How could I not love coming back?” he said. He and his wife, Jerilyn, first bought a house in Selden in 1973, for $30,000, but were not happy there, he said. Seven years later, his best friend’s grandfather died, and by then they were able to afford his East Northport house — at $60,000. Mr. Cancelleire, who runs a cleaning business, and his wife, a title closer, regularly play golf at nearby Crab Meadow Golf Course, he said. Even when he retires, he said, “I don’t plan on leaving.”
托尼·坎切莱里(Tony Cancelleire)就是在东诺斯波特长大的返乡者。“我怎么会不想回来呢？”他说。他和妻子杰雷林(Jerilyn)1973年在塞尔登(Selden)买了第一套房子，房价3万美元（约合人民币18万元）。但是他说，他们在那里过得并不开心。七年后，他挚友的祖父去世了，在东诺斯波特空下一套房子。他们就花6万美元（约合人民币37万元）买下了这套房子。坎切莱里说，他经营着一家保洁公司，妻子则是产权结算师，他们经常在附近的Crab Meadow高尔夫球场打球。他说，即使到了退休的时候，“我也不打算搬走。”
Some residents have moved to larger homes within the hamlet, said Jean Chiovarelli, an agent with Douglas Elliman Real Estate. She and her husband, Joe, a contractor, bought their first house, a 1920s colonial on a small plot, in 1985. Eight years later, they moved to their current home, an expanded ranch on three-quarters of an acre.
有些居民搬进了同村更大的房子，道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的经纪人简·基乌瓦雷利(Jean Chiovarelli)说。她和丈夫、承包商乔(Joe)在1985年买了第一套房子，那是上世纪20年代建成的殖民风格房屋，地皮较小。八年后，他们又搬进了现在的住处，是一座扩建的大牧场，占地四分之三英亩（约合3035平方米）。
Her daughter, Marisa, now attending college in Manhattan, plans to return, she said. “She thinks it’s the greatest place in the world.”
她说，她的女儿玛丽莎(Marisa)现在在曼哈顿读大学，以后打算回老家。“她觉得这里是世界上最好的地方。”
What You’ll Find
概况
About 45 miles east of New York City, the hamlet of East Northport covers 5.2 square miles and has 20,217 residents, according to the 2010 census. It is part of the Town of Huntington and on the Port Jefferson line of the Long Island Rail Road. The hamlet is surrounded by Northport and Fort Salonga to the north, Kings Park to the east, Commack and Elwood to the south, and Greenlawn and Centerport to the west.
东诺斯波特村位于纽约市以东45英里（约合72公里），占地面积5.2平方英里（约合13.5平方公里），据2010年的人口普查，当地居民人口为20217人。该村隶属于亨廷顿(Huntington)镇，位于长岛铁路公司(Long Island Rail Road)的杰斐逊港(Port Jefferson)铁路线上。东诺斯波特村北邻诺斯波特和萨隆加堡(Fort Salonga)，东临金斯帕克(Kings Park)，南临康马克和埃尔伍德，西临格林隆(Greenlawn)和森特波特(Centerport)。
According to the United States Census Bureau, the median household income is $102,965.
根据美国人口普查局(United States Census Bureau)的调查，当地的家庭收入中值为102965美元（约合人民币633523元）。
What You’ll Pay
房价
The average price of the 49 homes for sale in the hamlet of East Northport was $473,193, said Arlene Schwartz of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, with asking prices ranging from $799,999 to under $300,000. The average price of the 27 homes that sold during the first four months of 2014 was $435,478, after an average 84 days on the market. Last year, she said, 124 homes sold for an average $410,336 after 80 days on the market. In 2012, 112 homes sold, with averages of $419,240 in price and 94 days on the market.
房地产经纪公司Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage的经纪人艾莲娜·舒尔茨(Arlene Schwartz)说，东诺斯波特村的待售住房有49套，平均价格在473193美元（约合人民币291万元），要价最高的是799999美元（约合人民币492万元），最低是不到30万美元（约合人民币185万元）。2014年1到4月，已售的27套住房的平均价格为435478美元（约合人民币268万元），房源从上市到成交的平均时间为84天。她还说，去年售出的住房有124套，平均价格在410336美元（约合人民币252万元），从上市到成交的平均时间为80天；而2012年售出的住房有112套，平均价格为419240美元（约合人民币258万元），从上市到成交的平均时间为94天。
The average sale price so far this year is up compared with last year, Ms. Schwartz noted, though after more days on the market. “That could be attributed to the long winter we had,” she said. “I think we’re seeing a late spring market this year all over Long Island.” Smaller homes seem to be selling better than larger ones, she said, because “many first-time buyers are coming into the community,” attracted by the school district and easy access to highways.
舒尔茨注意到，截至目前，今年的住房售价比去年更高，尽管从上市到成交的时间也更长了。“这可能是因为房市之前的寒冬期较长，”她说，“我觉得整个长岛的楼市今年回暖的时间比较迟。”她还说，较小的住宅似乎比大型住宅更畅销，因为“有很多第一次买房的人来到这个社区，”他们被优质的学区和便捷的高速公路交通吸引了过来。
What to Do
日常生活
The public library on Larkfield Road includes a cafe where, on a recent weekday, four players and an onlooker huddled over games of chess and five women played mah-jongg. John J. Walsh Memorial Park, adjacent to the library, includes a playground, benches and ball fields. On Sept. 5, 6 and 7, the Chamber of Commerce will host its annual festival, in the park and on part of Larkfield, which will be closed to traffic. The festival features craft and food vendors, games, entertainment and more.
拉克菲尔德路的公共图书馆里有一家咖啡厅。在最近的某个工作日，咖啡厅里有四个人在下棋，一个人在围观，还有五位女士在玩麻将。旁边的约翰·J·沃尔什纪念公园(John J. Walsh Memorial Park)内有片运动场，还有多处长椅和球场。9月5至7日，商会(Chamber of Commerce)将在公园和拉克菲尔德的部分路段举办年度盛会，届时举办活动的路段将禁止通行。该活动将聚焦手工艺品和食品商贩、游戏、娱乐等等。
Other recreational areas in the hamlet include Caravan Park, Clay Pitts Park and Veterans Park. A nine-hole golf course on the grounds of the Northport V.A. Medical Center on Middleville Road is open to the public.
村里的其它休闲场所包括房车公园(Caravan Park)、Clay Pitts公园和荣军纪念公园(Veterans Park)。米德尔维尔路(Middleville Road)的诺斯波特荣军医疗中心(Northport V.A. Medical Center)里，有一座9洞高尔夫球场对外开放。
Though Larkfield Road and surrounding streets have many stores, bars and restaurants, some residents go shopping or seek recreation in Northport, which has a harborfront park, and visit Crab Meadow Beach in Fort Salonga, with its boardwalk and adjacent 18-hole golf course. Other beaches are also close by.
尽管拉克菲尔德路和周边街道有很多商铺、酒吧和餐厅，有些居民会在诺斯波特购物或消遣，那里有一座滨海公园。他们还会去萨隆加堡的Crab Meadow海滩，那里有木板铺成的散步道，旁边开了家18洞高尔夫球场。其他沙滩也在附近。
The Schools
学校
The Northport-East Northport school system, which also serves the Village of Northport, has 5,881 students. It offers Advanced Placement courses and an International Baccalaureate Program, as well as highly regarded programs in music and art. Students attend one of six elementary schools for kindergarten through fifth grade, followed by East Northport or Northport Middle Schools for the next three grades, and then move to Northport High School.
诺斯波特-东诺斯波特学校教育系统(Northport-East Northport school system)也服务于诺斯波特村，招收了5881名学生。它提供多门大学预修课程(Advanced Placement)、一门国际文凭大学预科课程(International Baccalaureate Program)以及广受好评的音乐和艺术课程。学生从幼儿园到五年级，可从六所小学中选择一所就读；接着，初中三年就读于东诺斯波特或诺斯波特中学；然后升入诺斯波特高中。
Of the 527 graduates last year, 79 percent went to four-year colleges and 15 percent to two-year colleges. The average SAT scores were 532 in reading, 556 in math and 534 in writing, compared to 501, 485 and 477 statewide.
在去年的527名毕业生中，有79%升入了四年制大学，15%升入了两年制大学。SAT考试平均分数为阅读532分，数学556分，写作534分。与此对应的全州平均分数，分别为501分、485分、447分。
The Commute
交通
A 6:18 a.m. direct Long Island Rail Road train from Northport to Pennsylvania Station takes 1 hour and 2 minutes, but most trains require a change in Jamaica, Huntington or Hicksville and can take up to about half an hour longer. A monthly ticket costs $325, and a peak one-way is $14.75. Some commuters drive to the Huntington station, which offers more frequent direct trains for the same fares. Driving to Manhattan takes an hour or more, depending on traffic.
每天早晨6:18开始，有长岛铁路公司的火车从诺斯波特开往宾夕法尼亚车站(Pennsylvania Station)，全程1小时零2分钟，但大多数班车需要在牙买加、亨廷顿或希克斯维尔(Hicksville)换乘。月票价格是325美元（约合人民币2000元），高峰期的单程票价是14.75美元（约合人民币91元）。有些通勤者会开车前往亨廷顿车站，那里开通了更多直达班车，费用相同。开车前往曼哈顿则至少需要一小时，具体用时取决于交通状况。
The History
历史
Anyone looking at a map may wonder how East Northport got its name, since it lies south of the village of Northport. Most likely the story began in 1867, when the Long Island Rail Road decided to extend eastward the line that then ended in Northport, said Barbara Johnson, local history librarian at the Northport-East Northport Public Library.
看过地图的人可能都会纳闷，为什么东诺斯波特明明在诺斯波特村的南方，却叫做“东诺斯波特”。据诺斯波特-东诺斯波特公共图书馆的地方史馆员芭芭拉·约翰逊(Barbara Johnson)说，事情很可能得从1867年说起。当时长岛铁路公司决定，将终于诺斯波特的铁路线向东延长。
The terrain and location of the old station were not ideal, she said, so a new station, which opened in 1873, was built at the present site. It was called the Northport station, as it is today, even though the old station stayed open several more years.
她说，老车站的地形和位置都不太理想，于是，新车站于1873年在现址落成。当时叫做诺斯波特车站，现在也是一样。不过老车站又运营了好几年。
The new station was both south and east of the old one, in a rural community that had variously been called Clay Pitts, Genola and Fairview. A corner of the village was then called South Northport, “so that name was taken,” Ms. Johnson said. The area around the new stop came to be known as East Northport.
新车站在老车站的东南方，它所在的农村社区曾被称为Clay Pitts、杰诺拉(Genola)和费尔维尤(Fairview)。村子的一角当时称为南诺斯波特，“地名就是这么来的，”约翰逊说。新车站附近的地区，渐渐开始被称为“东诺斯波特”。