WASHINGTON — In one way at least, President-elect Donald Trump has already surpassed all of his recent predecessors. It took Barack Obama 18 months in the White House for his approval rating to slip to 44 percent in Gallup polling, and it took George W. Bush 4 1/2 years to fall that far. Trump got there before even being sworn in.
华盛顿——至少在一个方面，候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)超过了前几任总统。奥巴马入主白宫18个月之后，盖洛普民调中的支持率才下降到44%，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)历经了4年半之后才滑落到那个水平。而特朗普还没有宣誓就任，支持率就已经降到那么低了。
Indeed, Trump will take office on Friday with less popular support than any new president in modern times, according to an array of surveys, a sign that he has failed to rally Americans behind him, beyond the base that helped him win in November. Rather than a unifying moment, his transition to power has seen a continuation of the polarization of the election last year.
事实上，大量调查都显示，在本周五就任之际，特朗普支持率比美国现代史上任何一位新任总统都低，这是一个迹象，表明除了帮助他在11月胜选的基础选民之外，他并没有把身后的美国人团结起来。在特朗普权力过渡期间，不仅看不到团结，去年选举中的两极分化现象依然持续。
Where other presidents used the weeks before their inauguration to put the animosities of the campaign behind them and to try to knit the country together again, Trump has approached the interregnum as if he were a television wrestling star. He has taken on a civil rights icon, a Hollywood actress, intelligence agencies, defense contractors, European leaders and President Barack Obama. The healing theme common at this stage in the four-year presidential cycle is absent.
就职前的几周时间里，其他总统会化解竞选期间的敌意，力图让国家重新团结起来，而特朗普在过渡期间的表现却好像是电视摔跤明星。他已经跟一个民权偶像、一个好莱坞女星，还有情报机构、国防部承包商、欧洲领导人和奥巴马总统进行过较量。在四年的总统周期中，目前这个阶段常常以“疗愈”为主题，但在特朗普的过渡期里却完全看不到这一点。
“He seems to want to engage with every windmill that he can find, rather than focus on the large aspect of assuming the most important position on earth,” Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said on CNN on Tuesday. “And obviously, apparently, according to the polls, many Americans are not happy with that approach when he has not even assumed the presidency.”
“他似乎想要和他能找到的每一个风车作战，而不是把心思集中在担任全世界最重要职位的大方向上，”来自亚利桑那州的联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)周二说。“显然，从民调来看，即便在他成为总统之前，很多美国人似乎对这种做法很不满意。”
Two polls out on Tuesday — one by CNN and ORC and another by The Washington Post and ABC News — found that just 40 percent of Americans approved of Trump’s performance heading into the inauguration on Friday. NBC News and The Wall Street Journal put his approval rating at 44 percent, calling it the lowest-ever rating for an incoming president.
周二的两个民调——一个来自CNN和ORC，另一个来自《华盛顿邮报》和ABC新闻——发现，在周五的就职典礼到来之际，只有40%的美国人支持特朗普的表现。而NBC新闻和《华尔街日报》的民调发现他的支持率为44%，是历届总统上任之际最低的。
By comparison, shortly after their inaugurations, Obama was at 68 percent and Bush was at 57 percent in Gallup surveys. Both used the time after their initial victories to preach a message of inclusion and to extend a hand to their opposition, even if it did not ultimately last.
可以做个对比，奥巴马在刚刚上任之后不久支持率达到了68%，布什也曾在盖洛普民调中获得了57%的支持率。两人在胜选之后的那段时间里，都传达了包容的信息，并向反对者表示了合作意愿，即便这种情况未能持续下去。
Trump’s advisers said privately that his unexpected rise to power showed that such traditional barometers did not matter as much anymore. If polls were to be believed, he would not have been president, they said.
特朗普的顾问私下里说，他的胜选本来就出人意料，说明这种传统的指标已经不再重要了。他们说，如果你相信民调的话，特朗普就不会是总统了。
Still, the anemic numbers clearly irritated Trump, who lashed out on Tuesday. “The same people who did the phony election polls, and were so wrong, are now doing approval rating polls,” he wrote on Twitter. “They are rigged just like before.”
然而，支持率的下降明显刺激了特朗普，他本周二发泄了一番。“同样也是这些人炮制了虚假的选举民调，搞得那么离谱，现在他们又在搞支持率民调了。”他在Twitter上写道：“他们还像以前一样弄虚作假。”
Although polling in several Midwest battleground states failed to accurately reflect the actual results on Election Day, national polls generally came within a percentage point of the actual popular vote, which Hillary Clinton won with 48 percent to Trump’s 46 percent.
虽然中西部几个州的民调没有准确地反映选举日的实际结果，但全国民调通常和实际投票结果相差不到一个百分点，比如希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)赢得48%的选票，特朗普赢得了46%。
For Trump, the worry about approval ratings would be less about what it might mean for the next election, still years away, but about how such numbers are interpreted by members of Congress, who historically have been more deferential to popular presidents than unpopular ones.
对于特朗普来说，担心支持率不大可能涉及它们对下一次选举的影响，因为那还有几年时间，这更有可能和国会议员如何看待这些数字有关，从历史上看，国会对人气更高的总统会更加遵从一些。
“Every president starts off with a goodwill account with Congress that eventually draws down,” said Phil Schiliro, who was Obama’s White House legislative director in his first term. “As approval ratings drop, the account sinks very quickly. And that makes it much harder to bring Congress along on the president’s priorities.”
“每个总统上任之初，国会对他的印象都很好，但最终都会变坏，”奥巴马第一个任期中的白宫立法主任菲尔·席利罗(Phil Schiliro)说。“随着支持率下降，国会的印象很快也会变糟。这时候让国会支持总统的优先事项就会变得更难。”
Steve Israel, a Democrat who represented New York in the House, said the biggest challenge for Trump might be with nervous members of his own party. “Right now, Trump’s numbers are kryptonite for 21 House Republicans in districts that he lost,” he said. “So not only does he begin with low poll numbers, he begins with a significant potential bloc of resistance in his own caucus.”
在众议院代表纽约州的民主党人史蒂夫·伊斯拉埃尔(Steve Israel)说，特朗普的最大的挑战可能是他自己的共和党内一些心情紧张的成员。“现在特朗普的民调数字，成为了攻击21位来自他输掉的地区的共和党众议员的武器，”他说。“因此，他就任总统之际不仅民调数字很低，而且在自己的党团会议里可能也面临着重大阻力。”
But Trump has shown that he intends to lead more through force of personality than through the breadth of his coalition. Brash and uninhibited, he seeks out enemies and allows few slights to go unanswered. He has repaired bridges with some critics, like Mitt Romney, but has made only sporadic efforts to reach out to parts of the public that have not supported him.
但特朗普表明，他打算通过人格力量，而不是通过联合众多盟友来领导美国。他大胆妄为地给自己树敌，几乎每次遭到批评都会反击。他已经修复了与一些批评者的纽带，比如和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)，但对于那些不支持他的公众，他做出的握手言和努力寥寥无几。
His strongest supporters cheer his pugnacious style, and he argues that it has gotten results, like when House Republicans backed off plans to undercut the authority of the Office of Congressional Ethics, or major employers reversed plans to move jobs overseas after he wrote on Twitter about his disapproval.
特朗普的铁杆粉丝支持这种好战做法，他声称这么做已经看到了成效，比如当他在Twitter上发贴表示反对之后，共和党众议员撤回了削弱国会道德办公室权力的计划，大公司也逆转了把工作岗位搬到海外的打算。
Mary Matalin, who was a top counselor to Vice President Dick Cheney, who ignored his own low approval ratings while in office to focus on advancing his national security agenda, said Trump “has ushered in a new political paradigm” that had upended age-old assumptions.
副总统迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)在任期间也曾无视自己的低支持率，专注于推进国家安全议程。切尼的首席顾问玛丽·马塔林(Mary Matalin)说，特朗普说“开创了一种新的政治样式”，颠覆了长期以来的一些假设。
“Trump has exposed the inadequacy and fallibility of decades-old domestic political strategy of governing by polls and contrived expectations,” she said. “In the new Trump world, it has already been proven prima facie absurd to presume personal approval numbers to be more vote-determinative than policy approval.”
“几十年来，美国用民调和设想中的期望来治国，特朗普已经暴露了这种政治策略的不足和不可靠之处，”她说。“一些人假设，个人支持率比政策获得的支持率对投票的影响更大，在特朗普当权的时代，事实已经证明这种假设显然是荒谬的。”