A friend recently told me, breathless with excitement, that she was renewing her lease at 8 Spruce Street, the Frank Gehry-designed 76-story skyscraper, without any rent increase.
最近，一位住在曼哈顿的朋友兴冲冲地告诉我，她正为自己在云杉街8号(8 Spruce Street)租住的高档公寓续约。令她激动不已的是，这座由美国当代著名后现代主义、解构主义建筑大师弗兰克·盖里(Frank Gehry)设计的76层摩天大楼竟然没有涨租金。
In this red-hot rental market, why would the landlord, Forest City Ratner Companies, renew its leases without demanding more in rent?
眼下房屋租赁市场如此火爆，云杉街8号的业主、开发商Forest City Ratner Companies（简称FCR）为何在与租户续约时却没有伺机涨价？
Most of us who rent, and that is the bulk of New Yorkers, expect to be mildly abused by their landlords. Every year as our leases near the end of their terms, we wait anxiously to find out what next year’s outlay will look like.
其实，对于我们大多数租客（大部分纽约人过着租房的生活）而言，（续租时）被房东小宰一笔本是意料之中的事。每年房屋租约快到期的时候，我们都急不可耐地想要知道下一年度的房租价格。
And when we gaze at behemoth rental towers that offer perks like full-time doormen, health clubs and live-in supers, those annual rent increases seem as inevitable as a roof-deck misting station. But that may just not be true.
眼看着公寓大楼提供的特殊服务越来越多，例如24小时门卫、健身俱乐部、住宿管理员等等，我们自知租金上涨已是板上钉钉、不可避免的了，可实际情况也可能并非如此。
Lynda Lippin, 47, lives in an alcove studio at 8 Spruce, officially known as New York by Gehry at 8 Spruce Street, with her husband and dog, a onetime stray. After two years, she still carries around the silver Tiffany key ring she was given when she moved in, a square in the shape of the tower. She speaks fondly of the private residents-only viewing party held not long ago for a $35,000-a-month penthouse, where cheese and wine were circulated amid the unobstructed 360-degree views. She attends the buildingwide barbecues, where gourmet ice-cream sandwiches are handed out. And even though she doesn’t regularly go to the building’s gym, “it is lovely to stare at the snow falling on the glass ceiling” while swimming in its heated pool.
47岁的琳达(Lynda Lippin)如今就和丈夫住在云杉街8号的一套开放式的单间豪华公寓里，还在家中收养了一只流浪狗。这座大楼也被称为“盖里诠释的纽约”(New York by Gehry)。两年时间过去了，她依旧随身带着那个按大楼模型制造的银色蒂芙尼钥匙环，那是她刚入住这里时拿到的。她还满心欢喜地谈到了不久前的一次私人观景聚会，那是在楼内一套月租近3.5万美元（约合人民币21.42万元）的顶层公寓里举办的，只允许此楼里的住户参加。宴会上，品尝着美酒佳肴的宾客们可将那360度的景观一览无余。此外，她还参加了公寓大楼主办的烧烤晚会，甚至还尝到了美味的冰淇淋三明治。虽然她不经常去大楼里的健身房，可一边在温热的水里游泳，一边“观赏着雪花飘落在玻璃天花板上，也算是件惬意的事了。”
Last month the managing agent e-mailed her to say that if she committed to her two-year lease by mid-July, rather than wait until it expired at the end of October, she could renew at her current rent, around $3,300 a month. Her annual $300 per-person amenities fee would also be waived.
上个月，公寓代管经理曾发来邮件说，如果她能在7月中旬之前就确定下两年的租期，而不是等到10月底合同期满，她就仍可以按当前每月3300美元（约合人民币2.02万元）的价格继续租住，而且还能免去每人每年300美元（约合人民币1836元）的物业费。
“I couldn’t believe it,” said Ms. Lippin, a master instructor at Real Pilates, a studio in TriBeCa. “I was stunned, actually.” She signed the lease immediately.
“我简直不敢相信有这种好事，”琳达说道。她在翠贝卡(TriBeCa)一家名叫Real Pliates的普拉提工作室担当主教练，“说真的，这让我都有点手足无措了。”她当即签字续了约。
This is a far cry from the rent increases and stiff competition that most New York renters are experiencing. “It’s a tough market,” said Marc Lewis, the chairman and a senior adviser for Coldwell Banker A.C. Lawrence, whose listings generally skew toward the lower end of the price spectrum. “At most buildings, rents go up every year, and the increases have been more this year than last year and the year before that.
事实上，琳达这种情况并不能代表大多数纽约人所面临的竞争激烈、租金上涨的现状。“这可是个竞争残酷的市场，”房产咨询管理有限公司Coldwell Banker A.C. Lawrence的主席兼高级顾问马克·路易斯(Marc Lewis)这样说道。其客户群体普遍集中在较低端的市场定位。“对大多数住宅而言，租金每年都在上涨，而且相比去年和前年，今年的涨幅更大。”
“Landlords rarely give tenants a hometown discount anymore,” he added, referring to concessions offered to current tenants. “Now, if you were paying $2,000 last year, this year they are asking $2,700.”
“现在的业主很少再给房客折扣了，”他补充道，“现在的情况是，如果你去年付2000美元（约合人民币1.22万元），今年他们就会管你要2700美元（约合人民币1.65万元）。”
There are many reasons why Forest City Ratner might forgo rent increases. The luxury market, which has been commanding steadily higher prices for more than a year, may finally have plateaued. This may be especially true downtown, where luxury rents have fallen over the past year. There are also the costs associated with having to find new tenants, as well as competition from new developments in the neighborhood.
尽管如此，FCR公司放弃增收租金机会的理由也很充分。高档住房市场的房价在经历了一年多的稳步上涨后，很有可能趋于稳定，尤其在市中心一带，因为那里的高档住宅租金总额在去年就已经开始下降了。而且，另寻新房客也要耗费成本，来自附近街区开发商的竞争同样不容小觑。
Rental renewal rates are proprietary to landlords and nearly impossible to track. Declining to discuss specifics, Melissa Roman Burch, the director of commercial and residential development for Forest City Ratner, said in a statement, “Since the building opened we have received great feedback from tenants, who are drawn to Frank Gehry’s iconic design as well as the building’s world-class amenities, and our renewals reflect this enthusiasm.”
租房续约的价格，是仅为业主所掌握的信息，旁人几乎无从知晓。虽然不愿透漏更多细节问题，但FCR公司商业用房和居民住房开发部的主任梅丽莎·罗曼·伯奇(Melissa Roman Burch)曾在一份声明中提到，“自从这座大厦对外出租以来，我们就从房客那里收到了诸多反馈。他们不仅被弗兰克·盖里的标志性设计，更被这里提供的世界一流的服务设施所吸引。我们的续签率就反映出他们的这种热情。”
Cliff Finn, an executive vice president of Douglas Elliman Development Marketing, who, while at Citi Habitats, oversaw the original leasing at 8 Spruce Street, said there were “lots of reasons for landlords offering promotions like this.” With 899 apartments, the building was so large that incentives like free rent were necessary when it opened, to fill it up as quickly as possible, said Mr. Finn, who continues to represent the building. “So now, when these tenants come up for renewal, having a zero percent increase helps them mentally adjust to the full market rent.”
柯里弗·芬恩(Cliff Finn)曾在纽约本地的地产经纪公司Citi Habitats负责监管云杉街8号的早期租赁工作，如今，身为房地产公司Douglas Elliman的发展营销执行副总裁，芬恩坦言，“租赁公寓的业主开展像这类（减免房租）促销活动的原因有很多。”这座大楼内的公寓数多达899间，如此大的规模，在它开盘后对外出租的时候，着实需要采取一些减免租金的激励手段，以便尽快把它填满，芬恩解释道。他仍在继续负责这栋大楼的代管工作。“所以现在，当房客们再来续租的时候，打出‘租金零增长’的概念，有助于他们从心理上接受这个相当于市价全额的租金。”
In other words, while the landlord may seem to be giving something away, Forest City Ratner maintains that it is actually receiving more rent from Ms. Lippin and her husband. Since they were given two months rent-free when they first signed their lease, their net effective rent has been about 8 percent lower than the face value of the unit.
换句话说，虽然表面看起来FCR公司让房客占了便宜，可这位大房东确保了自己从琳达夫妇身上赚得的更多。由于他们在第一次签订租约时被免除了头两个月的租金，因此他们此前交付的净有效租金(net effective rent)就比公寓的市场价值低了8%。
But from Ms. Lippin’s perspective, the lack of free rent in the new lease makes little difference. “Except for those first two months two years ago,” she said, “we’ve been paying full rent, so the money out of our pocket stays the same as it has always been.”
在琳达看来，新的租约中少了减免租金这一项后，影响并不大。“除了两年前第一次签约后的头两个月，”她说，“我们后来付的都是全额租金，所以，今后要从我们口袋里花出去的钱，跟一直以来的房租开支还是持平的。”
The overall rental market may also be a factor in Forest City Ratner’s decision. After quarter upon quarter of steep price increases, it looks as though it may finally be flattening out. “In Manhattan over the last 18 months, there has been an unprecedented rise in rents,” said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. “But in the last five months, it has been sliding, with rents rising at a slower pace.”
整个房屋租赁市场的行情，也是影响FCR公司做出这一决定的因素之一。随着租金一个季度接着一个季度地往上涨，它最终总会趋于平稳。“在过去18个月里，曼哈顿地区的租金开始了史无前例的疯涨，”评估机构米勒萨缪尔公司(Miller Samuel)总裁乔纳森·米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)说，“可在最近五个月内，租金的增速慢了下来，相比以前也就有所滑落了。”
According to a recent rental report for Douglas Elliman that Mr. Miller wrote, the median rents downtown increased a nominal 1.5 percent, to $3,350, in July compared with July 2012. And in the market for three-bedroom apartments, which are typically luxury units, the median rent downtown actually fell 8.7 percent, to $5,250, during the same period.
在一份近期为Douglas Elliman撰写的租赁报告中，米勒提到，与2012年7月相比，今年7月市中心一带的房屋租金中值名义上同比增长了1.5%，达到3350美元（约合人民币2.05万元）。而市场上的三居室公寓——作为豪华套房的代表，其位于市中心一带的租金中值与同期相比实际上还下降了8.7%，只有5250美元（约合人民币3.21万元）。
The Gehry building in particular seems to have seen some softening of prices. When it was under construction, it marketed its penthouses for as much as $60,000 a month, a staggering price for the area. It eventually lowered the price tag to $45,000 and is now renting them for $35,000.
特别是这座盖里设计的大楼，见证了房屋租赁价格的这种疲软状态。当初开工建造的时候，其顶层公寓每月的租金标价高达6万美元（约合人民币36.73万元），足以令人望而却步；然而在大楼最终对外出租时，这个标价降到了4.5万美元（约合人民币27.55万元）；现如今，它们的实际出租价格却只有3.5万美元（约合人民币21.42万元）了。
“Sometimes it behooves a landlord to keep a tenant in place even if there is a minor dip below the market-rate rent,” said Gary L. Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. “The reality is, if there are a significant amount of people whose leases are overturning at the same time, or if you consider the cost of preparing an apartment for a new tenant, like painting, concessions and paying the brokerage fee, it may make sense.”
“有时候，即便租金比市场决定的价格水平低一些，业主们也不会介意；相比之下，他们觉得先留住房客才是更必要的，”Citi Habitats经纪公司总裁盖里·L·马林(Gary L. Malin)说，“事实上，如果有一大批住户的租房合约都同时到期，或者如果你考虑到为每个新房客准备公寓所要付出的成本，比如粉刷墙壁、打折优惠、支付中介费用等等，你就会发现，其实还是留住原有房客更合情合理。”
Eight Spruce Street is also about to have some competition. Next summer, a few blocks to the south, the former headquarters of the financial giant A.I.G. will open as a huge luxury rental development. The developer Rose Associates is converting the building, known as 70 Pine, into 780 units that will have a hotel component and amenities that include two bowling alleys and an observatory and cigar bar with unimpeded views of downtown.
事实上，云杉街8号也将迎来一些新的竞争对手。明年夏天，在它南面仅几街区之隔，金融巨头美国国际集团(A.I.G.)的总部旧址将作为一栋大型高档租赁开发项目对外开放。其开发商Rose Associates着力将这座又被称为“70 Pine”的建筑，改建为拥有780间公寓的大厦，届时整座建筑内不仅会有酒店入驻，还会添加更多的物业设施，包括两条保龄球道、一座观景台和一个可以俯瞰市中心景观的雪茄吧。
Given these factors, Forest City Ratner’s decision to offer no rent increases “makes sense,” Mr. Miller said. “The landlord is anticipating that the rents are already high, let’s keep the building at the current rents and keep it full.”
考虑到这些，FCR公司不涨租金的决定“有其合理性”。米勒说，“业主们都在预期租金已经涨到了高位，所以不如就把它维持在当前水平，只要能够实现满租就行了。”
But while downtown and 8 Spruce Street may be finding their footing, the overall luxury market is faring somewhat better. The top 10 percent of rental units across Manhattan saw a median price increase of 11.7 percent, to $8,412, in July compared with July 2012, according to data from Mr. Miller. And comparable buildings, like MiMA, a 500-unit rental at 450 West 42nd Street that opened last year, are not offering a break on renewals.
不过，尽管市中心的业主和云杉街8号正在竭力寻找自己的立足点，但是高端市场的整体表现还是颇为可观的。从米勒提供的数据来看，与2012年7月相比，就曼哈顿地区排在前10%的租赁公寓而言，其租金中值同比增长了11.7%，达到8412美元（约合人民币5.15万元）。而其它比较具有代表性的大厦，如去年在西42街450号开门迎客的MiMA，并未在续约率上有所突破。
“We just went through our first wave of renewals and we didn’t offer any concessions,” said Daria Salusbury, a senior vice president who heads the luxury rental division for Related, “and 90 to 95 percent came with a modest rent increase. The rental market isn’t the strongest I have seen, but I’ve seen worse.”
“我们仅仅是完成了第一波续约任务，实质上并没有做出多少让步，”RELATED公司（美国最大的房地产企业之一——译注）高级副总裁兼高端住房部主任达莉雅·索鲁兹伯里(Daria Salusbury)说，“甚至90%到95%的房屋租金还略有上涨。房屋租赁市场还没有进入我所见识过的最强周期，但我已经历过更糟糕的时期了。”
So the market slide that 8 Spruce Street may be experiencing might be a function of its location. The neighborhood was hit hard by Hurricane Sandy, causing some tenants to leave. The building had backup generators, but there was still cold water and intermittent power for 9 days; the landlord offered tenants a prorated rent reduction to compensate for the inconvenience.
云杉街8号面临市场下滑，很可能是受其地理位置的影响。在当年飓风桑迪(Hurricane Sandy)袭来之际，整个社区严重受灾，导致有些房客选择了离开。虽然公寓大楼备有发电机，可房客们还是忍受了九天的冷水和断断续续的供电，房东只好适当削减一部分房租，以补偿由此带来的不便。
At the time 8 Spruce came on the market in 2011, it was said to be breaking a price ceiling in the financial district. Maybe the landlord, having broken into these higher price ranges, has decided that at least for the time being, it can go no higher. And that suits Ms. Lippin just fine.
2011年，在云杉街8号开始对外出租的时候，据说它的租金将突破金融区的最高价。虽然业主已让云杉街8号跻身高价位楼盘之列，但他可能决定，至少从目前的情况来看，租金不能再涨了。而这对琳达来说是再好不过的了。