To hear most actors tell it, filming sex scenes is no turn-on. There are big cameras, of course, and big crew members that come with them. It’s a performance with a stranger-turned-scene-partner, for a director who’s judging every caress and whimper. It’s the antithesis of hot, stars assure us on late-night TV; it’s awkward and tense. Speak to the filmmakers, though, and you get a different take.
根据大多数演员的说法，拍性爱戏没什么可兴奋刺激的。当然啦，片场有大大的摄像机，还有大群剧组人员跟着。和你一起表演的是刚刚变成拍片搭档的陌生人，导演在一旁对你们的每次爱抚和呜咽做出评判。在深夜电视节目中，明星们告诉我们，拍性欲戏完全是热辣性感的反面，是笨拙而紧张的体验。但制片人们又是另一种说法。
“I personally am very excited when we shoot sex scenes,” said Sarah Treem, a creator of the Showtime series “The Affair.” “Because I think they can be transgressive; they can be very, very real.”
“拍性爱戏的时候我个人觉得挺兴奋的，”映时台(Showtime)电视剧《丑闻》(The Affair)的主创莎拉·特里姆(Sarah Treem)说，“因为我觉得它们可能是违法的；也可能非常、非常真实。”
When they work, she added, “everybody actually enjoys them.”
她还说，一旦拍摄成功，“所有人都会喜欢它们。”
Audiences certainly do, if the blockbuster success of “Fifty Shades of Grey” is any measure. But they are delicate moments to capture. “We did actually save the explicit sex to the final week” of shooting, said Seamus McGarvey, the cinematographer of “Fifty Shades of Grey,” based on E. L. James’s S-and-M-centered novel — though on-screen, some of the whipping is created via digital imagery.
从《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey) 的轰动性成功来看，观众当然喜欢。但性爱戏是需要悉心捕捉的微妙时刻。“我们确实把最直白的性爱戏放在最后一周拍摄，”《五十度灰》的摄影师谢默斯·麦克加维(Seamus McGarvey)说，这部影片根据E·L·詹姆斯(E.L. James)的虐恋小说改编，片中有些鞭笞的镜头是用数码技术实现的。
To simulate sex, actors employ tricks: pillows between them, prosthetics and body stockings, and push-ups to get their muscles bulging. But the movement is often improvised. “If it’s overly rehearsed or overly thought through, it seems like a bad soft-core porn on Cinemax,” said Judd Apatow, the auteur of raunchy rom-coms (and a producer of “Girls”). In the forthcoming comedy “Trainwreck,” Mr. Apatow directed the writer and comedian Amy Schumer in her first big-screen sex scenes; she pumped herself up by listening to Beyoncé in her trailer.
为了模拟性爱，演员们使用一些技巧：两人之间隔着枕头，他们还会使用假体化妆和连体紧身衣，做俯卧撑让肌肉鼓起来。但动作常常是即兴的。“如果过度排练或想得太多，感觉就像是电影业内拙劣的软性色情片，”情色浪漫喜剧片导演和《都市女孩》(Girls)的制片人贾德·阿帕托(Judd Apatow)说。在即将上演的喜剧《火车出轨》(Trainwreck)中，阿帕托指导编剧兼喜剧演员艾米·舒默(Amy Schumer)初次尝试大屏幕上的性爱戏，她在自己的片场拖车里听碧昂斯(Beyoncé)，好让自己兴奋起来。
On “Fatal Attraction,” Michael Douglas and Glenn Close were loosened up with Champagne and margaritas, said Adrian Lyne, the director of that sexually charged classic as well as “Indecent Proposal” and “Unfaithful.”
经典情色电影《致命吸引力》(Fatal Attraction)的导演阿德里安·莱恩(Adrian Lyne)说，拍摄该片时，迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)和格伦·克洛斯(Glenn Close)靠香槟和龙舌兰酒放松，莱恩的《桃色交易》(Indecent Proposal)和《不忠》(Unfaithful)也是情色佳作。
Naturally, not all steamy scenes are amorous. Some, like those in Jean-Marc Vallée’s “Wild” and “Dallas Buyers Club,” are meant to be uncomfortable, and those are among the most difficult to create.
当然，并非所有涉及性爱的戏都是色情的，比如让-马克·瓦雷(Jean-Marc Vallée)的《涉足荒野》和《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)里面的性爱都让人感到不舒服，这样的场面是最难拍的。
In individual telephone conversations, these film professionals discussed one of the weirder aspects of their jobs, the logistics of sex on screen.
在分别进行的电话采访中，这些电影专家畅谈电影工作中一件奇怪的事：性爱戏背后的准备工作。
Write, rehearse and choreograph? Or just let the camera roll?
要写东西、要彩排，要设计动作？还是干脆把摄像机打开就行了？
Sarah Treem There’s a difference between the way that sex scenes are written and performed. We do have detailed stage directions. A lot changes on the day you’re shooting sex scenes, because they are so vulnerable for the actors. Some actors would say it’s them at the most honest.
莎拉·特里姆：写下来的性爱戏和演出来的性爱戏之间是有区别的。我们的确有详细的表演指示。到真正拍性爱戏的当天会有很多变化，因为这样的戏对于演员来说太微妙了。有些演员会说，他们才是诚实付出最多的。
Amy Schumer I think I overwrote the sex scenes. It was probably half a page of very specific stage directions before I even said one word in the movie.
艾米·舒默：我觉得关于性爱戏我写得太多了。大概在我在片中的角色张口之前，我写了半页非常详细的表演指示。
Judd Apatow I took photos of every possible angle you could have sex in, but then on the day, all of it goes out the window. There’s only so many places you can put the camera for that activity.
贾德·阿帕托：我在拍性爱戏的布景地点，从每个角度拍照片，但到了拍摄当天，一切都被丢到一边去了。拍那种戏的时候，能放摄像机的地方有那么多。
Seamus McGarvey We did have rehearsals and to make the actors feel comfortable initially, look at how we might photograph the sex. Also, that suited the first few sex scenes, to have a slight awkwardness to them; the camera would be more at a distance. In the Red Room, when things heat up a little bit, that was less choreographed. Sometimes we would use a remotely operated camerahead so the actors wouldn’t have an operator leaning in.
谢默斯·麦克加维：我们确实会排练，先让演员觉得自在，我们也看看该怎么拍摄性爱。另外，为了表现他们刚开始做爱有些笨拙，镜头应当离得远一些。在“红房间”两人之间的热情有点升温，就不需要设计那么多动作了。有时候我们会用远程控制的顶部摄像机，这样演员就不会受摄像机操作者的干扰。
Adrian Lyne You try and create a situation where there are possibilities. I’ve always thought that sort of grabbed sex is more fun than that statuesque sort of bedroom stuff. So in “Fatal Attraction,” the scene where they [have sex] over the sink, I knew it had humorous possibilities because there was plates and cups in the sink. If you don’t get some humor in, the audience will laugh at you, because they’re nervous watching it.
阿德里安·莱恩：你试着创造出一个有各种可能性的情景。我总是想，那种激烈的性爱比卧室里安静的性爱更有意思。所以在《致命吸引力》里，他们在水槽边做爱，我知道这有幽默的可能性，因为水槽里还有杯盘。如果你不放进一点幽默，观众会嘲笑你，因为他们看着这种戏会觉得非常紧张不安。
Jean-Marc Vallée There was no specific choreography, but there’s a way of setting a tone. Restricted crew, it’s just available light where we can move 360 degrees with the camera — this is the intention, and let’s see where it goes from there. [In “Wild”] it wasn’t specifically planned for this guy to take Reese [Witherspoon], to turn her on her back, and take her from behind, but it just happened as we were shooting. And [in “Dallas Buyers Club”] with Matthew [McConaughey], at one point he had a threesome, with two girls in this trailer home with his friend watching him, and he was on fire.
让-马克·瓦雷：没有特殊的动作设计，不过要设计一种基调。对工作人员做出要求，要有足够的光线，让我们可以360°移动镜头——目的就是这样，然后让我们看看在这儿拍会怎样。（在《涉足荒野》中），和瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)做的男人到她背上，从身后和她做，这不是特意设计的，就是拍摄时自然发生的。在《达拉斯买家俱乐部》里，马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)有一场3P戏，和两个女孩在拖车里做，朋友看着他，他非常亢奋。
Do you ask for nudity, and then worry about covering it up afterward?
你是不是会要求演员裸体，然后再考虑遮挡的事情？
Lyne That’s the best way to do it. [In “Fatal Attraction”] I always remember when Michael Douglas is trying to carry her over her to the bed, and he couldn’t get out of his pants, and he’s having hysterics laughing. And he was naked — well, he had his shirt on. We noticed in the cutting room literally one frame where his testicles were visible. You couldn’t cut it out — it’s very, very brief. [Laughs] I hope Michael will forgive me for saying this.
莱恩：这是最好的办法。我一直记得，在《致命吸引力》里，迈克尔·道格莱斯想带她上床，他没法脱掉裤子，于是歇斯底里地大笑起来。后来他穿着衬衫，赤裸下身。在剪辑的时候，我们发现，在一个镜头里，可以看到他的睾丸。你没法把这个画面剪掉——这一幕非常非常短（大笑）。我希望迈克尔原谅我说这些。
Treem We have actors on our show who have varying relationships to nudity; people have things they will and will not show, and we have to respect that. We had to create sex scenes that looked like we weren’t trying to cover body parts when we were. And — this was a discovery for us — sometimes the sexiest sex scenes, we shot very tight, only the actors’ faces.
特里姆：演员们对待裸体有各种各样的方式；有人愿意露某些部位，有人不愿意露，我们得尊重他们。拍性爱戏的时候，我们得遮挡一些部位，同时又要显得好像什么都没遮。有时候最性感的性爱戏只有贴近演员面部拍摄——这个发现倒是适合我们。
McGarvey We were protecting the actors. Jamie [Dornan] had a cover over his penis. Dakota [Johnson] had kind of a patch that went over her pubic area, and right round her whole body. We were in the curious situation, in postproduction, of adding [pubic hair]. I wouldn’t say it was one of the highlights of my career, but it certainly was one of the most surreal scenarios. We did have a butt double for Dakota. I had the pleasure of casting a nontattooed bottom — Surreal Scenario No. 2.
麦克加维：我们要保护演员。杰米·多南(Jamie Dornan)遮住了自己的阴茎。达科塔·约翰逊(Dakota Johnson)在私处贴了某些东西，绕她身体一圈。后期制作时非常奇妙，我们得添上阴毛。我不觉得这是我事业生涯中的亮点时刻，但这确实是非常超现实的一幕。我们拍达科塔的屁股时使用了替身，我喜欢没有纹身的屁股——这是第二个超现实的场面。
Schumer I am sort of a boundaryless person, which is something I’m working on. In our house, nudity wasn’t a big deal, so that was never an issue for me. It was about the crew. The sex scenes that are funny, I don’t care, but the ones that are actually sexual, it’s like these people are seeing me be really vulnerable. Frank, who’s holding the boom, is seeing, “Oh, this is what Amy is like when she really means business.” In between every single take, I think I screamed, “It’s so embarrassing!”
舒默：我是那种百无禁忌的人，拍东西也是这样。在我们家，裸体算不上什么大事，所以对于我来说从来不是问题。问题在于剧组人员。性爱戏很有意思，我不在乎，但是那些人是有性欲的，好像那些看着我的人真的很脆弱。弗兰克拍性爱戏时说，“啊，艾米当真的时候就是这样的”。拍每场戏间隙的时候，我都大叫：“太尴尬了！”
Sex scenes mean a small crew. But how close are the cameras and how many takes?
拍性爱戏时只会有少数工作人员在场，但镜头要离多近，要拍多少次？
McGarvey For the sex, we would always shoot with two cameras, so they wouldn’t have to do numerous takes. I have done sex scenes before that have more abandon, for instance, in “We Need to Talk About Kevin.” When I did that scene with Tilda Swinton and John C. Reilly, with a 5D [camera], I was literally under the covers.
麦克加维：拍性爱戏的时候，我们总是用两个镜头拍摄，这样就不用拍很多遍。有几次，拍性爱戏时一次就成功了，比如拍《凯文怎么了》(We Need to Talk About Kevin)的时候。那是和蒂尔达·斯文顿(Tilda Swinton)与约翰·C·赖利(John C. Reilly)一道拍的，使用5D镜头，我感到很放心。
Lyne [In “Indecent Proposal”] the scene with Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore, I remember shooting it on the zoom so you can just push in and grab bits and pieces without stopping, and then get it wider. It’s a mistake to stop them. Usually they’re quite quick, love scenes like that, because there’s a limit to their endurance. Just in terms of kissing somebody, you can’t kiss forever.
莱恩：（拍《桃色交易》的时候），有一幕戏是伍迪·哈里森(Woody Harrelson)和黛米·摩尔(Demi Moore)一起拍的，我记得当时把镜头推得很近，这样就可以一气呵成地拍下各种细节，然后又给更宽的镜头。让他们停下来是不对的。通常他们都会很快，性爱戏就是这样，因为他们的忍耐是有限度的。比如说接吻，你不可能一直吻下去。
Do the performers have to be turned on?
演员必须有性兴奋吗？
Vallée I’ve never seen an actor with an erection, in all of the films and the sex scenes that I’ve done, but it doesn’t mean that I haven’t seen a guy being excited. It’s so technical, but we’re humans, and they’re naked, and they touch each other.
瓦雷：在我拍的所有电影和性爱戏里，我从来没见过有男演员勃起过，但这并不意味着他们不会兴奋。拍性爱戏太需要技巧，但我们都是人类，而且他们都是裸体，还要触摸对方。
Lyne The scene wouldn’t be working if they weren’t. Obviously, you’re not literally doing penetration but they’re both aroused; they would have to be; otherwise the scene would be hopeless.
莱恩：如果他们没有性兴奋，这一幕就无法让人信服。显然，你不能真的有插入，但双方都要有兴奋感，他们必须这样；否则这一幕就没法拍好。
Do actors express worry about their bodies? 
演员是否会对自己的身体表示焦虑？
Lyne Yes, I did have [an actor concerned about his manhood] — without the slightest reason to be worried — but it did show the amount of paranoia in their minds. I say, “You’re fine, you’re great!”
莱恩：是的，我遇到过（一个男演员担心自己的生殖器）——他们其实没有任何理由去焦虑——但他们脑子里确实有不少妄想狂的念头。我会说：“你很好，你棒极了！”
Vallée It happened in my first feature film. The lead actress had to perform a sex scene, and I think she was 35 at the time. She wanted to really talk about the angles and not show her from behind, and O.K. from the side, but not her breasts when she laid down. I can understand.
瓦雷：我执导第一部长片时发生过这种事。女主角得出演一幕性爱戏，我想她当时有35岁了。她想讨论一下拍摄角度，不要从她后面拍，从侧面拍没问题，但当她躺下来的时候，不要拍她的乳房。我可以理解。
Schumer I definitely was saying to my sister [a producer on the film], do I look O.K.? They want us to look good, so they’re not going to be like, “Oh, cool, look what a realistic cellulite shot.” Beforehand I tried to look good; once they’re rolling, it’s the last thing on my mind. [But] I definitely skipped Taco Tuesday that day.
舒默：我真的问了我的姐妹（她是这部片子的制片人），我看上去怎么样？他们希望我们看上去好看，所以他们不会说：“好酷，多棒的脂肪团呀。”以前我都尽量想显得好看，一旦拍起来，我就不去想了。但那天我确实没有吃玉米卷饼。
Quiet on the set! Or not?
拍摄时会保持沉默吗？
Vallée With actors, while they’re doing it, I tell myself, “Shut up; don’t talk,” even though I want to.
瓦雷：演员表演时，我会告诉自己：“闭嘴，别说话”，尽管我想说。
Lyne What I have a horror of is these poor souls in total silence and not knowing whether they look good. So I’m always vocal, almost like I’m doing it with them. I’m going: “That was good. Do it again.” Afterward they have to cut my voice out.
莱恩：我讨厌让这些可怜的家伙们置身沉默之中，不知道自己做得怎么样。所以我总在说话，简直就像我在和他们一起演。我说：“这个好，再来一次”，然后他们还得把我的声音剪掉。
McGarvey [The director] Joe Wright is a great proponent of music to help actors get into the mood. It helped the actors’ movement and the camera’s kind of coalesce, because it is like a dance. On “Atonement,” there’s a scene in the library between James McAvoy’s character and Keira Knightley’s, and we shot that to “Come to Me” by Mark Lanegan and PJ Harvey, a very languid, sexy tune, because the camera was hand-held.
麦克加维：（导演）乔伊·怀特(Joe Wright)喜欢用音乐帮助演员进入情绪。它能帮演员的动作和摄像机更好地结合在一起，因为这很像舞蹈。在《赎罪》(Atonement)里有这样一场戏，是詹姆斯·麦克沃伊(James McAvoy)的角色和凯拉·奈特莉(Keira Knightley)的角色一起排的，我们边拍边放马克·雷尼甘(Mark Lanegan)和PJ·哈维(PJ Harvey)的《来我身边》(Come to Me)，这是一首慵懒性感的歌曲，因为我们用的是手持摄像机。
Is it ever awkward for you?
你曾经感到过尴尬吗？
Treem One of the sex scenes in Episode 4 — the character of Alison doesn’t really [have an orgasm]. She’s in grief, she’s lost a child, she’s sexual but she cannot enjoy it, and finally she does. Getting to that place was a bit of a challenge. I was acting out the sex scenes for [the episode director] Jeff Reiner. I’m acting out an orgasm with the whole crew behind me, and finally he was like, “Oh, I get it.”
特里姆：在第四集，有这么一场性爱戏——艾莉森(Alison)的角色不想（做爱）。她很悲伤，她失去了一个孩子，她有性欲，但她并不觉得享受，但她最后还是做了。拍这样的戏有点挑战性。我给（这一集的导演）杰夫·雷纳(Jeff Reiner)演示这场性爱戏。我演示的时候，整个剧组成员都在我身后，最后他说，“啊，我懂了。”
Vallée I do get excited, but not sexually. I’m excited as a filmmaker.
瓦雷：我都很兴奋，但没有性欲。是那种作为电影人的兴奋。
Apatow I’m very shy. We did “The 40-Year-Old Virgin”; there was a speed-dating scene. The joke was a woman’s breast pops out, and I might’ve done half a take of it before I said we had what we need.
阿帕托：我非常害羞。拍《四十岁的老处男》(The 40-Year-Old Virgin)时，有一场快速约会的戏。搞笑的是，一个女人的乳房露出来了，我可能才拍到一半就说，已经拍好了。
Schumer [The scenes] totally serve the story; they belong there. As to whether I would rather just be sitting in a dialogue with someone in a diner versus having them thrusting in my thigh — yeah, I’ll take the diner and get a piece of coconut cream pie. [But] I’m glad we did it.
舒默：（性爱戏）完全是为故事情节服务的；它们属于整体故事。你要问我是愿意拍晚餐时的聊天戏还是愿意让别人戳我的大腿——好吧，我愿意吃晚餐，再来一块花生酱派。（但是）我很高兴我们拍了这个。