BEIJING — Zheng Huan and Tang Xiaomei, infrequent moviegoers from rural Jiangxi in southeast China, saw their first 3-D film last week while visiting the capital.
北京——来自江西农村的郑欢（音译）和唐晓梅（音译）不是常看电影的人，两人上周来北京时，第一次看了3D电影。
It was not James Cameron’s “Titanic 3-D,” the highest-grossing film here this year and the third highest of all time, with $153 million in ticket sales. Instead, it was a swirling martial arts fantasy, “Painted Skin II,” which Mr. Zheng said hurt his eyes but Ms. Tang said was captivating.
他们看的不是詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)的《泰坦尼克》(Titanic)3D版（这部电影的票房收入达1.53亿美元，创造了中国今年票房的最高记录，在历史票房记录上排名第三），而是让人目眩的武侠奇幻影片《画皮2》。看完之后，郑欢觉得眼睛很疼，但唐晓梅说影片引人入胜。
The two are a shade older than the 18- to 34-year-olds who made Mr. Cameron’s earlier 3-D hit, “Avatar,” the highest-grossing film in China, with $208 million in ticket sales. Hollywood is aggressively pursuing that age group now that China is the leading export market for its films in terms of box-office receipts.
卡梅隆之前的一部3D大片《阿凡达》(Avatar)在中国创造了2.08亿美元的票房收入，是至今最卖座的电影。这部电影的主要观众年龄在18到34岁之间，郑欢和唐晓梅的年龄略微高于这一年龄段。好莱坞正在竭力讨好这一年龄段的观众，因为中国在票房收入上已成为了美国大片的首要出口市场。 
Last Wednesday, Mr. Cameron’s 3-D technology company, the Cameron Pace Group, announced that it would set up shop in Tianjin, a northeastern port city, as part of a government-backed joint venture there. Last spring, Imax said it wanted to install 229 giant screens nationwide.
上周三，卡梅隆的3D科技公司卡梅隆-佩斯集团(Cameron Pace Group)宣布，将在港口城市天津设立总部，开展一项政府支持的合资项目。去年春季，Imax公司表示，会在全中国范围内安装229个巨幕系统。
The initiatives underscore the extent to which American entertainment that makes the viewer part of the show has gained a foothold in the Chinese market. With movie tickets costing as much as 120 renminbi ($19) for 3-D and 180 renminbi ($28) for Imax, these American technologies are delivering content to Chinese consumers who are increasingly focused on authenticity and a high-quality theater experience that cannot be pirated.
这些举措都表明，强调观众体验的美国娱乐业已经在很大程度上在中国市场争取到了立脚点。3D电影的票价可达120元人民币，Imax影片则高达180元。这些美国电影技术迎合了这样的中国消费者：他们越来越注重真实和高质量，且不能靠盗版获得的观影感受。
Currently, 7,000 of China’s 11,000 screens are 3-D capable. RealD, a 3-D technology company based in Beverly Hills, said it had nearly 750 3-D screens across China and planned to install 1,250 in the coming years.
目前，中国的1.1万张电影银幕中有7000张可以放映3D影片。位于比弗利山庄的3D科技公司RealD称，中国将近750张3D银幕是它生产的，并计划在未来几年安装1250张银幕。
In 2008, two 3-D films were shown in China; roughly 30 will appear in the country by the end of 2012. From January to June, 21 3-D films — 13 percent of all 159 theatrical releases — accounted for 46 percent of the box office gross, according to data from Artisan Gateway, a Shanghai-based film consulting firm.
2008年，仅有两部3D影片在中国上映，而到2012年末，将会有大约30部3D影片在中国上映。据上海的影院事务咨询公司亚提森格维(Artisan Gateway)提供的数据显示，从今年1月到6月，总共有159部影片上映，其中有21部是3D影片，占上映总数的13%，而票房收入却占同期总票房的46% 。
“The beauty of it is that in rural China, you’ve got theaters that might be the first theater that people attend in their lives and it’s a digital 3-D theater,” Mr. Cameron said last week. “They’re skipping the 20th century and going straight to the 21st. Putting the glasses on won’t be strange to them because that’s just how you watch movies. In the urban markets, they associate the glasses with the premium viewing experience.”
“好就好在，中国农村的一些电影院可能是当地的第一家电影院，而这个电影院是数字3D的，”卡梅隆在上周接受采访时说。“他们跃过了20世纪直接进入了21世纪。对他们来说，戴上眼镜看电影并不奇怪，因为对他们来说，电影就是这样看的。对于城市市场的观众来说，他们会认为戴眼镜看电影属于顶级的观影体验。”
He likens the transition to 3-D in China to the evolution from black and white to color movies in the West. Though the shift from silent films to “talkies” was rapid in the late 1920s, the move to color took about 25 years. Mr. Cameron expressed hope that the move to 3-D would be even faster in China, perhaps over 10 years.
他把中国电影向3D的过渡比作西方从黑白电影到彩色电影的过渡。无声电影在20世纪20年代末很快发展为有声电影，但从黑白电影到彩色电影的发展却经历了大约25年。卡梅隆表示，自己希望中国会更快速地过渡到3D电影时代，或许只需要10年的时间。
He is betting on China’s focus on things that are new and technologically sophisticated, a contrast to North America, where moviegoers have received 3-D tentatively. Box-office revenue from 3-D films in North America dropped 18 percent from 2010 to 2011, though the 2010 figures included “Avatar,” the first 3-D film to reach $1 billion worldwide.
他把赌注押在中国对新事物和高端科技的关注上，与此形成对比的是，北美的电影观众对3D电影欲迎还拒。2011年北美的3D电影票房收入和2010年相比下降了18%，当然，2010年发行的影片包括《阿凡达》，这是首部在全球创收10亿美元3D电影。
China’s government is encouraging more expensive entertainment options as it strives to shift its economy toward consumerism from manufacturing. In February, China further opened its market to foreign films, letting studios release an additional 14 films (for a total of 34) if they are 3-D or in a large format like Imax.
中国政府鼓励建设越来越多的高消费娱乐项目，因为中国致力于把经济重点从制造转向消费。2月，中国进一步向海外电影敞开市场大门，规定每年可增加引进14部大片（总量达到34部），但前提是这些电影是3D影片，或是Imax这样的大规模作品。
One obstacle to 3-D films in China is the omnipresent subtitles that make all movies accessible to viewers who speak any of hundreds of regional dialects.
3D电影的一大难题是无处不在的字幕。中国有几百种方言，有了字幕，电影才能为任何一种方言的观众所欣赏。
“I feel a little bit tired because my eyes are not quite comfortable,” said Mr. Zheng after a 55 renminbi ($9) matinee last Thursday. “But when I take off the glasses, I can’t see the subtitles clearly.”
“我觉得有点累，因为眼睛不是很舒服，”郑欢在上周四观看了午场电影后说道。“但取下眼镜之后我就看不清字幕了。”
With subtitles in the foreground, tricking the eyes into seeing 3-D depth beyond them without causing headaches is a challenge. One solution is to keep expensive projector bulbs turned up high to help eyes adjust. But each bulb costs roughly 5,000 renminbi ($790) and theater owners tend to try to stretch their typical two-week life span. Another solution is to make live 3-D films, shot with two cameras at once, rather than rely on conversions — films shot in regular format, then altered in postproduction. Live 3-D can be easier on the eyes.
因为前景上有字幕，让观众的眼睛越过字幕，看到三维的纵深而又不感到头疼，就成了一个难题。 一个解决办法是，调高昂贵的投影机灯泡的亮度，帮助眼睛适应。然而，这样的灯泡一般寿命为两周，每个成本约为5000元人民币，所以影院老板通常都希望延长灯泡的寿命。 还有一个办法是，制作实拍3D影片，同时用两台摄像机拍摄，而不依赖于后期转换。所谓转换，就是影片先以常规格式进行拍摄，然后再在后期制作过程中转成3D格式。观众观看实拍3D影片时眼睛会舒服一些。
“We’re absolutely trying to do live 3-D, but think that for now the best way forward is to do a combination of live and conversion,” said Shen Hongxiang, chief operating officer of Beijing-based Soul Power 3-D, which converted “Painted Skin II” from 2-D. “It’s cheaper and will still produce high quality 3-D.” “Painted Skin II” is the highest-grossing Chinese-language film of all time, with ticket sales of more than $114 million as of Aug. 5.
“我们当然在尝试制作实拍3D电影，但就目前而言，最好的办法是将两者结合起来，既有直接拍摄的3D影片，也有转换的影片，” 北京 Soul Power 3-D公司首席运营官沈鸿翔（音译）说道。这家公司将《画皮2》从2D格式转成了3D格式。“这样做成本低一些，但还是能够保证高质量的3D效果。” 截止8月5日，《画皮2》的票房收入超过1.14亿美元，是有史以来票房收入最高的中文电影。
Overseeing 170 young Chinese software engineers split between Beijing and Wuxi, near Shanghai, five-year-old Soul Power has made a business of converting Hollywood fare like the Weinstein Company’s “Piranha 3-D.”
Soul Power 3-D公司成立已有五年，有170名年轻的中国软件工程师，分布在北京和无锡两地。该公司的业务包括将好莱坞影片转换成3D格式，经手的影片包括温斯坦公司(Weinstein Company)的《食人鱼3D》。
“Working with Hollywood companies, we discovered that there are different needs,” Mr. Shen said. “Hollywood wants the audience to see what the eyes see, but the Chinese audience still wants things to fly out at them. Chinese directors must study the differences between 2-D and 3-D and learn to speak the language.”
“在与好莱坞公司的合作过程中，我们发现，我们和他们的需求不一样，”沈鸿翔说。“好莱坞公司希望让观众看到他们的眼睛看到的效果，而中国观众却仍然希望看到影像能飞出来。中国导演必须研究2D和3D之间的差异，学习使用这种语言。” 
Michael Peyser, a professor of filmmaking at the University of Southern California and co-producer of the rock concert film “U2 3D,” which is considered among the best examples of live 3-D, said that China was where 3-D would thrive. “China has tens of thousands of digital artists ready to learn 3-D, not just writers, but visual storytellers picking up these new brushes for the first time, ready to paint,” he said.
南加利福尼亚大学(University of Southern California)电影制作专业教授、实拍摇滚音乐会电影《U2 3D》的联合制片人迈克尔·佩泽(Michael Peyser)表示，3D电影将在中国繁荣发展。《U2 3D》被认为是实拍3D电影的最佳典范之一。“中国有数以万计的数字艺术家正要学习3D技术，其中不仅有编剧，还有视觉艺术家，他们第一次接触3D技术，并准备要利用这种新技术，”他说。 
He cited the longtime Hong Kong director Tsui Hark as a live 3-D pioneer for Chinese filmmakers, who are also exploiting the business and entertainment potential of 3-D.
他表示，有多年从业经验的香港导演徐克是中国电影制作人在实拍3D电影方面的先驱。中国的电影制作人也正在探索3D在商业及娱乐方面的潜力。
Mr. Hark’s “ ‘The Flying Swords of Dragon Gate’ has all sorts of swooping action and seemed almost to be poking fun at itself,” Mr. Peyser said, respectfully. “Filmmakers must learn to know what the eye will allow and what it won’t reject. The goal should be to make the most wonderful magic carpet ride while making sure the audience doesn’t fall off.”
徐克的“《龙门飞甲》里有各种各样的高速动作，看起来简直有点自己拿自己开玩笑了，”佩泽带着敬意地说，“电影制作人必须学着了解观众的眼睛能接受什么，不会抗拒什么。最终的目标应该是，让观众能坐着最神奇的魔毯飞行，同时又不会掉下去。”
“Flying Swords” cost $30 million to make in 3-D and grossed roughly $94 million last year.
《龙门飞甲》的3D制作费用为3000万美元，它在去年的票房收入约为9400万美元。 
The Cameron Pace Group says China’s film world is just the beginning of its new venture in Tianjin. Mr. Cameron and his partner, Vincent Pace, have their eyes on China’s 500 million TV sets and the forecasts Chinese will buy 20 million 3-D-capable sets by the end of 2012. The Cameron Pace Group already helps ESPN show college sports in 3-D, and the group is in talks with China Central Television and other state-run broadcasters about helping their 3-D TV initiatives.
卡梅隆-佩斯集团称，中国的电影业只是其在天津新成立的合资企业的开端。卡梅隆和他的合作伙伴文森特·佩斯(Vincent Pace)的目光还盯上了中国的5亿台电视机上。有预计称，截止2012年年底，中国有3D功能的电视机销量将达到2000万台。卡梅隆-佩斯集团已经协助娱乐体育节目电视网ESPN播放3D格式的大学体育赛事。目前，该集团正在同中央电视台和其他国有电视台进行洽谈，商讨帮助它们开展3D电视业务。