Everyone in Los Angeles has a ridiculous story about driving somewhere when two feet would have worked just as well. Mine features a celebrity. I once interviewed John Travolta at Paramount Pictures for an entertainment magazine, and when it came time for us to move from his trailer to the shooting location, a limo was summoned. Estimated distance of our chauffeured, temperature-controlled, Evian-sipping road trip: less than 25 yards.
每个住在洛杉矶的人都有一个关于开车的无厘头故事：你要开车去的地方，迈开两条腿也照样能去得了。我的故事主角是个名人。有一次，我在派拉蒙电影公司(Paramount Pictures)为一家娱乐杂志采访约翰·屈伏塔(John Travolta)，等到我们需要从他的保姆车移步，进入摄影棚的时候，有人为他叫了辆豪华轿车。我们这段坐着豪车、吹着空调、喝着依云(Evian)的旅程估计有多远呢？不到25码（约合23米）。
This impulse is not so uncommon in Los Angeles. Friends of mine joined me at CicLAvia in June. It’s a recurring feel-good event that encourages walking, skating, strolling, scooting and biking through closed-off city streets normally blazing with car traffic. If you are a hipster from the Highland Park neighborhood in possession of a penny-farthing, this is your happiest day of the year.
这种挥霍在洛杉矶并非罕见。今年6月，朋友们和我一起参加了“CicLAvia”自行车和步行日活动。这是一项周期性的活动，鼓励人们在往常车水马龙、而现在封闭起来的街道上步行、轮滑、散步、快走和骑自行车，这让人们自我感觉很不错。如果你是个家住高地公园的时髦人物，又有一辆前轮大后轮小的古董自行车，这会是一年里最让你开心的一天。
“We drove two cars,” one of my friends said, arriving late and looking slightly bewildered. “We left one near the starting line and another near the finish.” I felt like saying, “People, this is Los Angeles: you only need one car for a pedestrian-friendly outing.”
“我们开来了两辆车，”一个朋友迟到了，他神情略有点困惑，对我说，“我们把一辆车停在了起点附近，另一辆停到终点附近。”我当时好想说一句：“伙计，这里是洛杉矶：参加步行推广活动，你只需要开一辆车就可以了。”
This always sounds absurd to New Yorkers, but many Angelenos would sooner have their mug shots appear on TMZ than go a few steps without a motor vehicle. Here, we drive ourselves to jog, to bike, to attend spin class and to hike, and it’s not unusual for a dinner gathering of three couples to involve five or six cars. All of which contributes to how much we sit. When we are not sitting on the freeways, we are sitting at our computers, in meetings, at restaurants or in front of the TV. And by we, in this case I mean me, at least until recently.
对于纽约人，这听起来确实很可笑，可很多洛杉矶人宁肯让自己的偷拍照片出现在TMZ八卦网站上，都不愿弃车走几步路。在这里，我们开着车去慢跑、去健骑、去参加单车课、去徒步，而来参加聚餐的三对情侣开着五六辆车也并不是那么异乎寻常。车上的时间，也同样要计算到我们静坐的总时长中去。当我们没有坐在车上行驶在高速公路时，我们就坐在电脑前，坐在会议室里，坐在餐馆或者坐在电视前面。这里的“我们”，指的是我自己，至少在不久之前情况是这样的。
At this year’s TED conference, the author and the Silicon Valley corporate executive Nilofer Merchant delivered a three-minute talk that scared the life out of me about how sitting has become the smoking of our generation. It arrived on the heels of a Harvard Business Review article she wrote that said Americans average 9.3 hours of sitting a day, compared to 7.7 hours of sleeping. So elemental is sitting to our daily routine, we don’t even think about it, and yet it’s killing us.
在今年的TED大会上，作家、硅谷高管妮洛弗·麦钱特(Nilofer Merchant)发表的三分钟演讲吓得我三魂不见六魄，她在演讲中称，久坐已成为我们这个时代的烟瘾。在此之前，她刚在《哈佛商业评论》(Harvard Business Review)中发表文章说，美国人平均每天要坐9.3个小时，而睡眠时间仅为7.7个小时。所以基本上来说，静坐不动就是我们的日常生活，我们甚至没有意识到它，而它正在断送我们的性命。
Just one hour of sitting slows production of fat-burning enzymes by as much as 90 percent, she said, and a longer term habit (you might want to sit down for this) negatively affects good cholesterol levels and increases the risk of heart disease, Type 2 diabetes and certain kinds of cancer.
麦钱特说，静坐仅一个小时，就会令体内燃脂酶类的产量减少高达90%，如果已经养成了久坐不动的习惯（接下来这段你可能要坐下来读）对人体中好胆固醇的水平有负面影响，并会增加患心脏病、II型糖尿病和某些癌症的危险。
The detail that catapulted me out of my chair was the conclusion of an Australian study that found that for each additional hour of TV a person sits and watches each day, the chance of dying rises by 11 percent. Even the recommended 30 minutes of vigorous exercise cannot make up for the problems of hunching over your laptop the rest of the day.
令我从椅子上一跃而起的，则是一篇澳大利亚研究的结论：一个人每天额外多看一小时电视，死亡的机率就增加11%。哪怕是推荐的30分钟剧烈运动也无法弥补其余时间趴在电脑前带来的问题。
Ms. Merchant’s prescription is to just keep moving. Walk with friends instead of stuffing your faces at meals. Walk to any destination within a mile radius of your home or business. Consider a standing desk (Ikea sells components to hack one for under $150) or even a treadmill desk, a kind of turbo work station that allows you to waste time on Facebook, but at an invigorating 2 m.p.h.
麦钱特女士开出的处方是，迈开腿。别大吃特吃，跟朋友们一起走走。去距离家或公司一英里以内的任何地方，都要迈开双腿步行。考虑使用站立式办公桌（宜家[Ikea]的一款组合式办公桌售价不到150美元）甚至跑步机办公桌，这是一种涡轮增压式工作台，你可以以令人神清气爽的2英里时速慢走，同时还能继续刷Facebook。
Naturally, Hollywood is all over it. “The actor Jerry O’Connell was in here the other day and said, ‘You’re the fittest screenwriter I’ve ever seen,’ “ said Janet Tamaro, who created “Rizzoli & Isles” and sometimes spends 10 straight hours walking through rewrites (many days her pedometer registers 50,000 steps). “I said, ‘Well, thanks, but that bar is pretty low.’ “
好莱坞对此自然十分热衷。“有一天，演员杰瑞·奥康纳(Jerry O’Connell)在这儿，他说，‘你是我见过的身型最健康的剧作家，”简妮特·塔马罗(Janet Tamaro)说。她是电视剧《妙女神探》(Rizzoli & Isles)的编剧，有时她会一边改剧本一边步行，甚至连续走10小时（很多时候，她的计步器记录的步数达到5万步）。“我回答说，‘嗯，谢谢你，不过你设定的标准实在很低。’”
Ms. Merchant’s bolder solution is to “walk the talk” by scheduling walking meetings, a suggestion I took as a personal challenge. Every time a friend or colleague wanted to meet, I invited them to walk instead. The writing students I teach were more than happy to skip the gym and stroll out their editing and pitching woes with me. I walked my side of dozens of cellphone conversations, walked a friend around a state park on her birthday, walked on Ms. Tamaro’s treadmill as I interviewed her and even walked a fence contractor through his bid. (“A walk? Now?” he asked as we hit the sidewalk.)
麦钱特女士还有一个更大胆的解决之道，通过安排步行约会来实现“在对话中走路”，我把这项建议当成了一项个人挑战。每当朋友或同事想要跟我见面时，我都会邀请他们和我步行。我教的写作课学生们十分乐意少去一次健身房，跟我一边讨论在编辑和构思方面的困惑，一边好好走一走。在数十次跟人打电话时，我自己在走路；在一位朋友过生日时，我和她一起在州立公园里走路；在采访塔马罗女士时，我在她的跑步机上走路；甚至在跟修篱笆的包工头讨价还价时，我依然在走路。（“散步？你现在要散步？”当我们走上人行道时他这样问我。）
These conversations were different somehow, with fewer awkward silences, more energy and a certain daydreamy quality (well, not with the fence guy). It helps explain, too, why “walk therapy” is an actual thing in Los Angeles.
不知怎的，走路时进行的对话有点不一样，少了那些让人尴尬的沉默，多了激情与某种白日梦的特技（当然，跟包工头的对话不在此列）。它还有助于解释，为什么“步行心理治疗”在洛杉矶真的可以存在。
I thought I was alone in using that term with freelancers looking to improve their careers, but Laurel Lippert Fox, a psychologist in Santa Monica, Calif., has been walking her private practice patients for years. “It’s so much more dynamic than sitting in your Eames chair,” she said. “Plus, moms can push a stroller if they can’t get a baby sitter.”
我本来以为，只有我和那些力争让事业更上一层楼的自由职业者会尝试“在对话中走路”这个理念，可是，加州圣莫尼卡的心理医生劳瑞尔·里伯特·福克斯(Laurel Lippert Fox)已经在她的私人诊所里，跟病人们一起散步多年了。“比起让病人坐在躺椅上，走路有活力多了，而且，如果妈妈们找不到保姆，还可以推着宝宝车来，”她说。
When I reached Ms. Merchant by phone at her office in Los Gatos, Calif., she had just returned from her fifth walk meeting of the week. (“I’m around 21 miles since Monday,” she said.) Both of us walked as we talked.
当我把电话打到麦钱特女士位于加州洛思盖多斯的办公室时，她刚刚结束了本周第五次步行会谈。（“从周一算起，到今天我已经走了21英里了，”她说。）我俩都是一边打着电话一边走路。
“What I love is that you’re literally facing your problem or situation together when you walk side by side with someone,” she said. “I love that people can’t be checking e-mail or Twitter during walking meetings. You’re awake to what’s happening around you, your senses are heightened and you walk away with something office meetings rarely give you — a sense of joy.”
“我喜欢这样，是因为当你和人肩并肩走在一起时，你们真的是在共同面对你们的问题或形势，”她说，“我喜欢这样，是因为在步行会谈时，大家没法查电子邮件或Twitter。你对发生在周围的事物保持着警醒，你的各种感觉变得更敏锐，而且当你结束一场步行时，能得到在会议室里开会极少给予你的东西——一种愉悦感。”
Few in Los Angeles get more joy from walking than the walking activist Alissa Walker (I kid you not). A journalist by trade, she has lived car-free by choice since 2007 and is on the steering committee of Los Angeles Walks, a volunteer organization dedicated to repairing the city’s image as a walker’s wasteland. “The basic goal is to make people realize you can walk in L.A.,” she said. Better sidewalks, signage and city policies are all part of their mission.
在洛杉矶，很少有人能像步行倡导人士艾莉莎·沃克（Alissa Walker，这就是她的真姓，我没骗你）那样，从步行中得到乐趣。她是个记者，自2007年起决定不再开私家车，现在是“洛杉矶步行”(Los Angeles Walks)指导委员会委员，这是一个致力于修复洛杉矶作为步行者荒漠形象的志愿组织。“我们的基本目标是要让人们意识到，在洛杉矶你是可以步行的，”她说。而要实现他们的使命，更好的人行道、标识和政策缺一不可。
I’ve known Ms. Walker for years through the writing community but the jubilant images she posts to Instagram (@awalkerinLA) and her blog (AWalkerinLA.com) — mostly of her glamorously adorned feet on some oddly alluring stairway or crosswalk — made me want to get out there with her.
几年前我就认识沃克，不仅仅因为我们同在写作圈子里，还因为她在Instagram(@awalkerinLA)和博客(AWalkerinLA.com)上贴出的令人振奋的照片——大部分照片拍的都是她那双修得很迷人的双脚踩在某些拥有离奇魅力的楼梯或人行横道上——这让我想要出门，跟她一起走一走。
I met her one warm, clear day in the Silver Lake neighborhood, and from her two-story royal blue house with white trim we walked along some of her favorite routes. She was wearing a billowy pink dress and neon coral sandals, and she had teal toenails that matched her sunglasses. At the bottom of her hill are the Music Box Steps, made famous in Laurel and Hardy’s 1932 Academy Award-winning short film, “The Music Box,” and now one of more than 100 vintage stairways hidden around the city.
一个温暖、明媚的日子，我在银湖社区见到了她，从她家那幢宝蓝色外墙、白色门窗镶边的两层楼房出发，我们一起漫步在几条她最喜欢的小径上。她穿着粉色的大摆裙和萤光珊瑚色的凉鞋，还把脚趾甲涂成了跟太阳镜相配的颜色。她家所在的山脚下就是“音乐盒阶梯”(Music Box Steps)，它因为演员劳莱与哈代(Laurel and Hardy)1932年获奥斯卡奖的短片《音乐盒》(The Music Box)而闻名，现在洛杉矶全城共有100多处老式阶梯，这里就是其中一处。
Ms. Walker showed me the nearly completed bike lanes under construction as part of a “road diet” that’s turning four lanes of car traffic to one on Rowena Avenue. And we walked around the Silver Lake Reservoir and on up Swan’s Way, one of the city’s steepest staircases, with views to the lake, downtown and the San Gabriel Mountains beyond. “If you squint you can imagine women in petticoats walking here a hundred years ago,” Ms. Walker said. “But you can also see the near future, when you’ll be able to walk Los Angeles without people asking ‘What are you walking for?’ “
沃克领我去看即将竣工的自行车道，这是“节制公路”运动的一部分内容，将要把罗威纳道(Rowena Avenue)的四车道改成一车道。我们沿银湖水库漫步，接着沿“天鹅径”(Swan's Way)拾梯而上，这是城里最陡峭的阶梯之一，在这里能俯瞰银湖、市区和远处的圣加百利山。“你可以眯缝着眼，想象在百年前，穿着衬裙的女士们就在这里走着，”沃克说，“但你也可以瞥见不远的未来，到时候，你可以在洛杉矶步行，不至于有人问，‘你干嘛要走路？’”
I went home excited to keep walking as part of a conscious act of being a resident in Los Angeles, and to feel healthier and more connected to my friends, neighborhood and city. But first I sat down to get a better look at the blister bubbling up on my right toe.
通过步行这项有意识的行动，我可以感觉自己是洛杉矶的市民，感觉自己更健康，与朋友、社区和城市之间的联系也更为紧密，带着这种兴奋的心情我回到家中。不过，我做的第一件事是坐下来，仔细查看右脚大脚趾磨出来的水泡。