LONDON — In mid-June, the trailer for Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg’s comedy “The Interview” hit the Internet. The movie, due in October, stars James Franco and Mr. Rogen as an American talk-show host and his producer, recruited to assassinate the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, while in Pyongyang to interview him. The trailer features Mr. Franco and Mr. Rogen riding tanks, the actor Randall Park as Kim Jong-un smoking a missile-size cigar, and a discussion, played for laughs, of reported North Korean propaganda claims that none of the Kim leaders defecate.
伦敦——6月中旬，塞斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)和埃文·戈德堡(Evan Goldberg)的喜剧《采访》(The Interview)的预告片在网上公布。这部电影将于10月上映，詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)扮演一名谈话节目主持人，罗根则扮演他的制作人。他们受到征召，要在前去平壤采访金正恩(Kim Jong-un)时，刺杀这名朝鲜领导人。在预告片中，弗兰科和罗根驾驶着坦克，扮演金正恩的男演员兰德尔·朴(Randall Park)则抽着导弹大小的雪茄。据称，朝鲜的宣传称金氏领导人都不用排便，片中对此进行了讨论，而这一段是专门用来搞笑的。
Within days, the North Korean Foreign Ministry slammed the film as “intolerable,” as well as “the most blatant act of terrorism and an act of war,” and threatened “merciless” retaliation if it was released. The next day the North Korean military launched three short-range ballistic missiles into the sea, as if to hint, “See what I mean?”
几天之内，朝鲜外务省便对这部电影进行了猛烈抨击，称其“无法忍受”，是“最为露骨的恐怖行径和战争行为”，并威胁称，如果发布此片，他们将“毫不留情地”进行报复。次日，朝鲜军方向海中发射了三枚近程弹道导弹，似乎在表示，“明白我的意思了吗？”
The lesson: Never underestimate the power of marijuana in Hollywood, and phallic jokes about rockets and cigars.
教训：千万不要低估大麻在好莱坞的力量，也不要低估把火箭和香烟当做阴茎的笑话。
It seems absurd for the leader of a nuclear state to be so incensed over an anarchic comedy by the guys who brought you “This Is the End” and “Pineapple Express.” But movies have held inordinate importance in North Korean politics, beginning even before the country’s founding in 1948. One of the earliest actions by Kim Il-sung, called Great Leader, was to create a Soviet-supported national film studio, where he gave filmmakers and crews preferential food rations and housing. His son, Kim Jong-il, called Dear Leader, was a film buff who owned one of the largest private film collections in the world and whose first position of power was in running the regime’s propaganda apparatus, including its film studios. For over 20 years he micromanaged every new North Korean film production, as writer, producer, executive and critic; to his people, he is still known today first and foremost — thanks to propaganda rather than any real talent or skill — as the greatest creative genius in North Korea’s history.
一个核国家的领导人，居然因为拍摄过《世界末日》(This Is the End)和《菠萝快车》(Pineapple Express)的人所制作的一部无政府主义喜剧而发怒了，这一点似乎有些荒谬。但早在朝鲜1948年建国前，电影就在该国政治中重要至极。被称作“伟大领袖”的金日成(Kim Il-sung)最早的活动之一，就是创立了一家由苏联支持的国家电影制片厂，那里的电影制作人和工作人员得到了他提供的特供食品配给，以及住房。他的儿子金正日(Kim Jong-il)被称作“敬爱的领袖”，也是一个电影迷。金正日拥有全世界规模最大的私人电影收藏之一，他第一个有权势的职位就是管理朝鲜政权的宣传机器，包括它的电影制片厂。在20多年里，他以编剧、制片人、执行总监和评论家的身份，事无巨细地管理着朝鲜每一步新电影创作。如今，他的人民依然认为他是朝鲜历史上最伟大的创意天才——多亏了宣传而非任何真正的才能或技巧。
The Dear Leader was less quick to take offense than his son Kim Jong-un is today — partly because, at least early on, he preferred threats he could follow up on; in those days, North Korean covert operatives still had the know-how to hijack a plane, bomb a state function, and target a South Korean president. Also, taking offense would have been an obvious case of the pot calling the kettle black. Most of his productions treated foreigners, Americans especially, the way Mr. Rogen, Mr. Franco and Mr. Goldberg treat Kim Jong-un: as cartoonish stock baddies. North Korean films of the 1980s are full of Western villains, usually admirals or colonels, with Dr. Evil bald heads and names like Dr. Kelton or Her Majesty’s officer Louis London. These characters all hatched devious schemes to destroy North Korea and take over the world for the White House.
“敬爱的领袖”发火的速度不及自己的儿子金正恩。这部分是因为，至少在早期，金正日倾向于拿他能兑现的承诺来做威胁；那个时候，朝鲜的秘密特工依然有劫机、炸弹袭击国家机构及刺杀韩国总统的本事。而且，生这种气显然是在五十步笑百步。在他的大多数作品中，刻画外国人，尤其是美国人的方式，与罗根、弗兰科及戈德堡刻画金正恩的方式如出一辙：外国人是卡通般的程式化坏蛋。上世纪80年代出品的朝鲜电影里充斥着西方恶棍，他们往往是将官或校官，留着邪恶博士的大光头，被称为凯尔顿博士(Dr. Kelton)或是为女王陛下效力的路易斯·伦敦(Louis London)等等。这些角色全都心怀不轨地想要毁灭朝鲜，为白宫占领全世界。
As North Korea had no Western actors to speak of, they were first played by Koreans in heavily caked whiteface makeup. Later on, American defectors and foreign prisoners, diplomats or visiting businessmen were “persuaded” to come into the studio for a day or a week and paste a monocle and fake mustache on for the cameras and dialogue-dubbers.
一开始，由于找不到真正的西方演员，朝鲜就让本地人化上白色浓妆来假扮。后来，美国的叛逃者，以及外国的囚犯、外交官或到访的商人均曾被“劝说”进入摄影棚，待上一天到一周，戴上单眼镜、粘上假胡子出镜，并为影片配音。
Like Mr. Rogen and Mr. Goldberg’s work, Mr. Kim’s films could be hilarious. But it was always unintentional. North Koreans don’t do comedy. To try and make someone laugh you must be ready for them not to take you seriously, something all three generations of Kim rulers have been unable to do. Where Pyongyang’s propaganda billboards used to threaten war if North Korea was invaded or attacked, now they warn foreigners “not to interfere with our self-respect.”
与罗根及戈德堡的作品一样，金正日的影片时而滑稽不堪。不过，这种滑稽绝非有意为之。朝鲜不拍喜剧。想让人发笑，你必须做好勿让他们信以为真的准备，而这一点，金家的三代统治者都没能做到。在平壤，宣传标语牌曾作威胁之用，扬言一旦朝鲜遭到入侵或袭击，他们就要发动战争；而现在，这些标语警告外国人“不准伤害我们的自尊”。
As a character type, Kim Jong-un may be difficult to place: educated in Switzerland, he is a basketball fan and alleged computer nerd; his wife is Pyongyang’s equivalent of Kate Middleton, and there are hopes he may yet open up the Hermit Kingdom — but oops, there he goes again, testing ballistic missiles, executing his own uncle, and letting his press agents call his South Korean counterpart a “filthy comfort woman.”
要框定金正恩的角色类型也许颇有难度：他在瑞士接受教育，是一个篮球迷和所谓的电脑高手；他的妻子相当于平壤版的凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)，而且人们曾对他或许会开放这个讳莫如深的国家心怀希望——可是好嘛，他又玩起了老把戏，试验弹道导弹、处死自己的姑父，任手下的新闻机构把韩国总统斥为“肮脏的慰安妇”。
One thing is clear: Mr. Kim deals in perception, not reality. His father and grandfather tried to assert that North Korea was the more legitimate and successful of the two Koreas. That battle was lost a long time ago. Now the grandson and his theater state must act as if his country still has any reason to exist, and so his first job is to sustain that illusion.
有一点很明确：金正恩注重的是观念，而非现实。他的父亲及祖父试图宣称，在朝韩两国之间比较，朝鲜更为正统和成功。但他们在很久之前就输掉了这场斗争。如今，金正恩和他的闹剧国家必须表现得好像这个国家仍有存在的道理，因此，他的首要工作是维持这种幻觉。