When New York’s transportation commissioner, Janette Sadik-Khan, announced plans for the city’s bike-sharing program at a 2011 press conference she called it “a fast, easy, affordable way to get around town.”
2011年，当纽约市交通运输局局长珍妮特·沙迪-汗(Janette Sadik-Khan)在新闻发布会上宣布该城即将推出自行车共享项目的计划时，将这个项目称为“游览纽约的一种快捷、便利且价格低廉的方式”。
So now that the program has kicked off with 6,000 cobalt-blue Citi Bikes at 300 locations south of 59th Street in Manhattan, and in parts of Brooklyn, how fast, easy and affordable is it?
现在这个项目已经启动，300个停车点覆盖了曼哈顿59街以南和布鲁克林部分地区，共有6000辆钴蓝色的“花旗自行车”投入使用。那么，这个项目到底有多么快捷、多么便利、多么低廉呢？
For the purposes of this column, of course, affordable comes first. For annual members, who pay $95 plus tax ($60 plus tax in some discounted cases) for a year’s worth of unlimited 45-minute rides, it’s a good deal. It also can be fast: with all those stations a ride is often quicker than a subway-and-walk combination. “Easy” might be a stretch, but once local riders get used to the challenges of Manhattan cycling, I’ll grant that to the commissioner as well.
对我们这个专栏来说，价格低廉当然是最重要的事。年卡会员的会费是95美元加税（符合折扣条件的会员年费是60美元加税），可在一年内无限次享受每次45分钟的骑乘，这个价格挺合算。骑行的速度也还不错：鉴于自行车站点数量众多，所以骑行往往比地铁加步行的交通方式更为快捷。然而，“便利”可能会有点困难。但是一旦当地居民习惯了曼哈顿骑行的各种挑战，相信交通局长关于便利的承诺便会兑现。
But what about for tourists? On Sunday, the first day 24-hour and weekly access passes became available, I planned a day around the city to see if it would be fast, easy and affordable for a traveler new to the city.
但对旅行者来说，效果如何呢？上个周日，24小时卡和周卡投放市场的第一天，我来个了纽约一日骑行之旅，测试对刚到这个城市的旅行者来说，自行车共享系统是否快捷、便利和低廉。
The answer: not for everyone.
答案是：并不适合所有人。
To be clear, I’m an unabashed fan of bike sharing and am overjoyed New York finally caught up with many European cities. I also had a great day — pedaling from Midtown to Murray’s Bagels in the Village for breakfast, then down to the Staten Island Ferry terminal, up to Chinatown for lunch, over to the High Line for a stroll and then back to Midtown for some late-afternoon culture at MoMA. Fast? Yes. But it wasn’t so easy, and it definitely was not cheap.
首先声明，我是自行车共享活动热情的支持者，纽约在这方面终于追上欧洲城市令我大喜过望。骑行的时候我也得到了很大乐趣——从中城区一路骑到格林威治村，在莫里家百吉饼(Murray’s Bagels)吃了早餐，接着向南骑到斯塔滕岛渡船码头(Staten Island Ferry terminal)，再北上唐人街吃午餐，然后到高架公园(High Line)散步，最后回到中城区，在现代艺术博物馆(MoMA)享受了午后艺术时间。快吗？快。但并不算便利，而且绝不便宜。
If you don’t know how bike sharing works, it’s pretty much the same around the world: Users pick up bikes at any station and can return it to any other within a specified time frame, often 30 minutes. (There’s almost always a mapping app to find the nearest station.) They can do that as many times as they like, without additional charge, for the rest of the day or week or year. They can also keep the bike longer, but will be charged a bit more; the idea is to use the bikes as transportation, not sheer recreation.
自行车共享的运作方式？其实与世界其他地方都差不多：用户可以在任何站点拿到自行车，并可在规定的时间内（一般是30分钟）将自行车归还到任何站点（通常都会有个配套的地图应用程序，帮你找到最近的站点）。在当天、当周或当年接下来的时间里，用户可以无数次重复这套借还程序。使用自行车的时间也可以略微超过规定时间，但需要支付一点额外费用——项目的理念是将自行车作为交通工具而不是娱乐工具。
But in New York, short-term users pay more — both overall and when compared with annual members — than in comparable cities elsewhere. In London, the daily pass is £2 ($3), about 2 percent the cost of an annual pass. In Paris, it’s 1.70 euros ($2.15), 6 percent of an annual pass. In New York, it’s $10.83, tax included, more than 10 percent the cost of a yearly membership.
但与其他城市相比，纽约的短期用户需要支付更高的价格——不管是租金总额还是与年卡会员相比。在伦敦，日卡的价格是2欧元（3美元），约占年卡价格的2%。巴黎日卡1.70欧元（2.15美元），占年卡价格的6%。在纽约，日卡含税10.83美元，比年卡价格的10%还高。
Put another way, the cost of a day’s biking in London or Paris is almost precisely the cost of a single subway trip; in New York it’s about four times that amount. (The weekly pass is $25 plus tax, compared with £10 in London and 8 euros in Paris.)
换句话说，伦敦或巴黎自行车日卡的价格几乎只相当于一张地铁单程票，而纽约却是地铁票价的四倍（周卡的价格含税是25美元，而伦敦周卡是10欧元，巴黎是8欧元）。
Of course, the bikes aren’t meant to be a replacement for the subway system, exactly: they’re meant to supplement public transportation and to be enjoyable. But in London and Paris (and Brussels and Berlin and Toulouse, three other cities I’ve been to recently) they clearly save you money as well. That is not the case in New York. The weekly pass is a slightly better deal, but it won’t replace a $30 weekly MetroCard: there are too many trips you can’t make in 30 minutes, and the bikes don’t yet extend north of 59th Street (think Central Park, the Metropolitan Museum, Harlem). Yearly members can take the bikes out for 45 minutes at a time; for daily or weekly members, it’s 30 minutes. And the penalties for going beyond those time frames are steeper for nonsubscribers: $4 for an extra 30 minutes, instead of $2.50.
当然，设立共享自行车并不是为了取代地铁系统，而是作为地铁的补充并给旅行增加乐趣。但在伦敦和巴黎（以及我最近去过的布鲁塞尔、柏林和图卢兹），自行车确实能为你省钱。而纽约不是这样的。周卡稍微合算一点，但仍然不能取代地铁通票(MetroCard)：许多路段你不可能在30分钟走完，而且目前自行车站点还没铺到59街以北（想想中央公园、大都会博物馆和哈莱姆区）。年票会员每次可以使用自行车45分钟，而日卡和周卡会员只有30分钟。此外会员的超时罚款比零售用户还要高：零售用户的罚款是2.50美元，会员却是4美元。
For those considering how this compares with renting a bike from a shop: An all-day rental, including helmet and lock, from Bike Rental NYC in Midtown is $32 with a reservation, $39 without — but of course that allows you to travel without time limits or geographical restrictions.
至于共享自行车与自行车租赁的价格对比，中城区的纽约自行车租赁行(Bike Rental NYC)的每日租赁费含头盔和锁具，有预订的话是32美元，没有预订则是39美元。此外，这也意味着你可以在任何地区使用，且没有时间限制。
All that said, if you love biking, or if you will use the bikes to substitute for taxis rather than subways, then the deal doesn’t sound quite as bad. So let’s move on.
综上，如果你喜欢骑车的话，那么用共享自行车代替出租车而不是地铁，听起来是个还不错的策略。我们接下来讨论其他问题。
What about fast?
比如，速度快吗？
I’d say yes. They are fast. Not literally: the bikes are heavy, so you won’t see program users careening down Broadway like crazed bike messengers. But assuming you’ve mapped out directions in advance, for just about any trip in a 20- to 25-block range, they beat the subway or bus. On all five routes I took, even when I got lost and took roundabout routes to use bike lanes, I never came close to the 30-minute limit, and always ended up within a two-minute walk of my destination — and sometimes right next to it, like at the High Line. The 15 or 20 minutes each trip took was almost certainly quicker than walk-subway-walk.
我得承认：快。非常快。一点也不夸张。鉴于自行车车身很重，所以你不会看到共享自行车计划的参与者像快递员一样疯狂冲进百老汇。但假如你提前规划好路线，任何20至25个街区的行程，骑行显然比地铁和公共汽车快。我骑行的那5条线路，即使中途迷了路且到达自行车道时必须绕道，每段的时间都远远小于30分钟，而且下车点距离我的目的地常常只有两分钟的步程，有时目的地直接就在下车点旁边，如高架公园。15至20分钟的行程显然比步行与地铁的结合方案更加快捷。
Finally, was it easy? Hey, this is New York: nothing is easy. And there are two learning curves for short-term users. First, the details of the system itself: how to pay, how to remove the bikes, how to plan within those 30-minute limits. But the real shock comes from simply biking on city streets. Despite great improvements in signage and bike lanes, New York is no Copenhagen or Berlin when it comes to biking. You’ll need to get the hang of planning your routes to avoid potential pitfalls like the narrow streets of Chinatown, the jarring cobblestones of SoHo and the nightmarish crosstown avenues without bike lanes but with plenty of daredevil cabdrivers.
最后，共享自行车便利吗？嘿，这里是纽约，什么事都不便利。此外，对于短期用户来说，需要明白两件事：首先，你必须熟悉该系统的技术细节，比如如何支付、如何将自行车移出、如何将行程规划在30分钟之内。但是真正让人意外的是在城市大街小巷骑行的过程。尽管纽约的骑行标志和自行车道已有很大进步，但骑行体验远远比不上哥本哈根和柏林。你必须知道如何规划路线才能避开潜在的障碍，比如唐人街狭窄的街道、SoHo区颠簸的卵石路以及那些没有自行车道却盛产狂野出租车司机的噩梦般的穿城大街。
I made all those mistakes. For my first trip, from Fifth Avenue and 49th Street to Avenue of the Americas and 13th Street, I didn’t plan my route beyond scouting out the nearby bike lanes on the neighborhood map posted at every Citi Bike station. Big mistake. I was befuddled almost immediately by a construction site near Times Square, and ended up biking down Seventh Avenue, perhaps the worst biking route in the city short of jumping from rooftop to rooftop. Taxis swerving to catch fares, trucks rumbling unpredictably, no bike signs at all — I felt a like a puffy dandelion seed head floating through a spray of machine gun fire.
以上错误我全部犯了一遍。第一段路程，从第五大道和49街的交叉口去美洲大道和13街的交叉口。每个花旗自行车站点都贴有社区地图，但我忘了仔细研究线路周边的自行车道。可怕的错误。一到时报广场附近的建筑工地我就糊涂了，最后不得不沿着第七大道向南骑行。这条路大概是纽约最艰难的骑行路线，除非你是从一个屋顶直接跳到另一个屋顶。出租车为了省钱不断迂回转向，卡车突如其来地鸣响喇叭，街上没有任何自行车标志——我觉得自己仿佛一只毛茸茸的蒲公英，在机关枪刚刚炸出的气流中翻滚。
From then on, I started using the city’s bike map, which I had downloaded onto my smartphone. That was a slight improvement, though its PDF format is not mobile-friendly. The answer here is to use the HopStop app, which gives great biking directions. (Google Maps also offers bike directions, but not on its iPhone app.)
从那时起，我开始使用城市骑行地图(the city’s bike map)——我之前下载到智能手机的一个文件。这让我的旅行有所改善，但它的PDF格式在手机上阅读并不舒服。解决方案是另一个应用the HopStop app，一个非常不错的骑行指南（谷歌地图也有自行车路线，但iPhone平台上的应用没有这种功能）。
I will say that when I was in bike lanes — especially the bike corridors that are almost completely shielded from traffic — riding was, if not a joy, then as close an approximation to joy as you can have when a taxi could still illegally lurch in front of you at any moment.
我承认，在自行车专用道尤其是那些几乎完全用护栏隔出的车道中骑行时，感觉非常不错。即使不算欢乐，也是一种极其相似的体验。这种感觉，与随时可以看到违规闯入自行车道的出租车被迫退出时的快乐非常相似。
So, should you use Citi Bikes on your trip to New York? Not if you’re just trying to save money. And not if you don’t want to pack a helmet: though I’ve used bike share programs without helmets in other cities — ones with far fewer taxis and far more dedicated bike lanes — I wouldn’t do it in New York.
那么，去纽约的旅行者们是否应该使用花旗自行车呢？如果你只想省钱，就不要用。如果你不想在行李中塞一只头盔，也不要用。但我没带头盔的时候，也能在其他城市使用自行车分享计划——那些城市出租车比纽约少得多，自行车道也更加成熟。在纽约的话我可不敢不戴。
But for those planning longer stays, who are just a bit intrepid and for whom $27.19 isn’t a burden, go for it. After a day or two, you’ll find biking a useful and (mostly) pleasant way to get around the city, and seriously, those stations are everywhere. It’s also great exercise in a city that can easily be fattening; I more than made up for the massive pumpernickel bagel with cream cheese, tomato and onion from Murray’s and the street food I bought at a Chinatown festival. Finally, it could easily save you money on night life — by the time I was done with my five-leg trip, I was completely exhausted.
但对那些打算久居此地的人来说，如果你有些勇气且觉得27.19美元不算什么负担，就去尝试吧。一两天以后，你就会发现自己可以用一种用处极大且（通常）轻松愉快的方法周游纽约。真的，自行车存取点在城中随处可见。在一个极易发胖的城市里，骑车也是种不错的锻炼。我这天的运动量，绝对超过了今天食物摄入的热量，包括莫里家的那只夹有奶油干酪、西红柿和洋葱的大号裸麦百吉饼，以及唐人街某个集市购买的街头小吃。最后，骑车能帮你轻松省下夜生活的花费：当我终于结束这天的5段旅程时，已经筋疲力尽了。