A MODERN APARTMENT IN AN UPSCALE NEIGHBORHOOD OF MADRID
一套马德里高端社区里的现代公寓
$1.925 MILLION (1.75 MILLION EUROS)
192.5万美元（175万欧元，约合人民币1226.8万元）
This three-bedroom three-bath renovated apartment is on the fourth floor of a 115-year-old elevator building in Justicia, one of Madrid’s most expensive neighborhoods. The area is home to art galleries, designer boutiques and small restaurants, making it popular with young families and professionals, agents say.
这套三卧三卫的翻修公寓位于马德里房价最高的社区之一Justicia的一栋有115年历史的电梯楼第四层。据代理人介绍，这里是许多画廊、设计师精品店和小餐厅的所在地，所以受到了许多年轻家庭与职业人士的欢迎。
“It is sort of a SoHo Madrid,” said Alberto Costillo, head of prime residential in Madrid for Knight Frank, the real estate company listing the apartment, referring to the trendy New York neighborhood.
“这里可以说是马德里的苏豪区,”代理该公寓的莱坊(Knight Frank)房地产公司马德里优质住宅部主管阿尔贝托·科斯蒂略(Alberto Costillo)说，苏豪区是纽约市的一个时尚社区。
This 2,659-square-foot apartment was completely modernized two years ago. The minimalist design emphasizes simple wood and metal elements. The furniture and art are not included in the purchase price, but are negotiable.
这套面积2659平方英尺（约247平方米）的公寓曾于两年前装修一新。室内极简主义的设计风格强调了简单的原木和金属元素设计。该房产的购买价格不包含家具和艺术品，具体价格可谈。
The foyer is a broad open area with high ceilings and a glass wall separating the living areas. The floors throughout most of the apartment are made of oak salvaged from a French convent, according to Javier Moran, the Knight Frank agent handling the property.
这间门厅是个宽阔的开敞式空间，有高高的天花板，通过一面玻璃墙与客厅隔开。据经手该房产的莱坊公司代理人哈维尔·莫兰(Javier Moran)说，这套公寓的大部分地面铺着从一座法国女修道院抢救下来的橡木地板。
The living room has a working fireplace and tall glass doors leading to a balcony. Narrow carved-wood pillars separate the main living area from a small sitting area. One wall of this sitting area is decorated with an intricate black-and-white mural of trees. Another small room with a tile floor off the sitting area is designed as a media room, Mr. Moran said.
这间客厅里有一座可工作的壁炉，还有一扇高高的玻璃门可通往一座阳台。几根细窄的雕花木柱把主客厅区与一处小休息室隔开了。这间休息室的一面墙壁上装饰着以树木为主题的黑白色精美壁画。莫兰说，该休息室外的另一间地面铺着瓷砖的小房间被设计为媒体娱乐室。
There are two areas that can be used for dining in the apartment. One space off the living area includes a long table with benches, which can also serve as an office. The other dining room is adjacent to the kitchen and features a more traditional dining table surrounded by eight chairs.
该公寓内有两处地方可用于进餐。一处位于客厅旁边，那里有一张带板凳的长桌子，也可用作办公室。另一间餐厅在厨房旁边，那里有一张更传统的餐桌，带八把椅子。
In the custom kitchen, the cabinets and counters are handmade from chipboard and aluminum sheet, Mr. Moran said. All the appliances are Bosch.
莫兰说，在这间定制的厨房中，橱柜和台面都是用刨花板和铝板以手工制成。所有的电器都是博世品牌(Bosch)的。
A hallway leads to the three bedrooms. The master bedroom includes a seating area with a fireplace, a dressing room and a bathroom with dual sinks and mirrors.
屋内有一条走廊通往三间卧室。这间主卧带一处有壁炉的休息区，一间更衣室和一间有双人盥洗池与镜子的浴室。
The apartment is air-conditioned; the heat and hot water are gas. There is no parking included, but it is possible to rent a space in the neighborhood, Mr. Moran said.
这套公寓安装了空调，暖气和热水采用燃气。莫兰说，该房产不提供车位，但可以在社区里租一个地方停车。
The home is best suited for a young executive or a couple who enjoys entertaining, more than a family, Mr. Costillo said, because of its relatively compact size and its layout. It may also attract investors. The apartment could generate 5,000 euros to 6,000 euros a month, or around $5,500 to $6,600 a month, as a short-term rental, Mr. Moran said.
科斯蒂略说，考虑到该公寓较为紧凑的空间和布局，这里最适合居住一位年轻的高管或一对喜欢款待客人的夫妇，而不是几代同堂的一家人。该房产也会吸引一些投资者。莫兰说，这套公寓的短期租赁收入，每个月可达5000欧元（约合人民币3.4万元）至6000欧元（约合人民币4.1万元），即5500美元至6600美元左右。
The building is a short walk to the Alonso Martínez, Colón and Chueca metro stops, and as well as to bars, nightclubs and the Plaza de Colón, part of a commercial and financial district. Madrid’s international airport is about a 20-minute drive from the neighborhood.
从这栋公寓楼步行一小段路可至阿隆索·马丁内斯(Alonso Martínez)、科隆(Colón)和丘埃卡(Chueca)地铁站，以及一些酒吧、俱乐部和位于商业与金融区的科隆广场(Plaza de Colón)。从该社区开车至马德里国际机场大约20分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Real estate prices are down as much as 40 percent from the 2007 peak in many Spanish cities, but some analysts believe they have finally hit bottom.
西班牙许多城市的房地产价格已经从2007年的最高峰下跌了40%之多，但分析师们相信，目前的房价已经跌至谷底。
“If we haven’t hit bottom, we’re just about there,” said Robert Javier Mangum, a founder of Coldwell Banker Mondedeu, a Madrid real estate firm.
“就算没有跌到谷底，也离得不远了，”马德里的一家房地产公司科威不动产(Coldwell Banker Mondedeu)的一位创始人罗伯特·哈维尔·曼格姆(Robert Javier Mangum)说。
Throughout Spain, the number of sales is increasing, but some areas are still “very depressed,” said Mark Stücklin, who runs the website Spanish Property Insight. Data reports offer conflicting information, with some showing that prices are still decreasing while others suggest prices are rising, he said.
西班牙各地的房地产销量都在攀升，但某些地区仍然“非常低迷”，运营Spanish Property Insight网站的马克·司徒克林(Mark Stücklin)说。有数据报告提供了一些有冲突的信息，某些数字显示房价仍在下跌，而另一些数字则表明价格正在上涨，他说。
In Madrid, recent reports show an increase in prices of more than 4 percent in the last year. “Madrid is the capital, the big city, the biggest, most liquid property market in the country,” Mr. Stücklin said. “Apart from demand from locals, it also attracts outsiders who want all the services, which other places in Spain can’t offer.”
在马德里，近期的一些报告显示，房地产价格在去年有4%的上涨。“马德里是首都，是大城市，是西班牙最有活力的房地产市场，”司徒克林说。“除了来自当地的需求之外，这个市场还吸引了一些希望得到所有便利服务的外来者，这是西班牙的其他城市无法提供的。”
But Mr. Mangum is skeptical that prices have started to rise over all in the capital. More buyers are active in the market looking for deals, he said, but a healthy supply of available property continues to dampen prices.
但曼格姆对首都房价已开始全面上涨的情况仍有怀疑。他说，虽然有更多买家活跃在该市场中寻求交易，但供大于求一直在抑制房价。
“There is just too much for sale,” Mr. Mangum said. Prices have “stabilized” in popular high-end neighborhoods like Justicia, where this apartment is, he says. But Madrid is still a buyer’s market.
“可供销售的房产太多了，”曼格姆说。在Justicia这类热销的高端社区，即这套公寓的所在地，房价已经“稳定了”，他说。马德里仍然是个买方市场。
“There is a lot of property available” in the range of 1 million euros to 2 million euros, or around $1.1 million to $2.2 million, he said.
在100万欧元至200万欧元(也即110万美元[约合人民币686万元]至220万美元[约合人民币1372万元]）的价格区间内，“有大量的房产待售，”他说。
WHO BUYS IN MADRID
谁在马德里买房
Madrid consistently attracts wealthy buyers from throughout Spain, agents say. But foreign buyers are also active in the market these days.
据代理人说，马德里一直吸引着来自西班牙全国各地的富裕买家。但国外买家近来在该市场也十分活跃。
About 30 percent of Knight Frank’s sales in Madrid are to international buyers, Mr. Costillo said. Before the crash, British citizens were the most active international buyers; now most are from Spanish-speaking countries, including Mexico, Venezuela and Colombia, he said.
科斯蒂略说，莱坊房地产公司在马德里有大约30%的销量归于国际买家。在房价下跌之前，英国人是这里最活跃的国际买家；现在大部分买家来自说西班牙语的国家，其中包括墨西哥、委内瑞拉和哥伦比亚，他说。
“They see Madrid as good value and safe compared to their own countries,” Mr. Stücklin said.
“他们认为，与他们自己的国家相比，马德里显得更好，也更安全，”司徒克林说。
Many of the buyers active in the market plan to use their Madrid homes as investment properties, generating revenue by renting the properties on a short-term basis, ranging from a few days to a month, agents said. Those buyers include “Spanish expats who have been living abroad for years, and think now is a good time to invest in Spanish real estate,” Mr. Stücklin said.​
据代理人说，许多活跃在该市场的买家打算把他们的马德里住宅当成投资性的房产，从几天至一个月不等，他们通过短期租赁该房产获得年收入。这样做的一些买家包括“已移居国外的西班牙人，他们在国外生活生活了许多年，觉得现在正是时候回来投资西班牙的房地产了”，司徒克林说。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
Spain has a well-used infrastructure to help international buyers. “The buying process is very secure,” Mr. Mangum said. There are no restrictions on foreign ownership, and a notary typically oversees the paperwork to make sure everything is in order.
西班牙有一些非常实用的措施来帮助那些国际买家购置房产。“这里的购买流程十分安全，”曼格姆说。西班牙对外国买家的身份没有限制，通常有一位公证人负责监督文书工作以确保一切按部就班。
Nevertheless, agents typically advise buyers to hire their own lawyer, who can ensure there are no liens on the property and the deeds are accurate. Since documents are in Spanish, a lawyer can also verify that translations are accurate.
尽管如此，房地产代理人通常会建议买家聘请他们自己的律师，这样可以确保该房产没有留置权的问题，而且各项事务也可以处理得更加到位。由于文书上用的都是西班牙语，有一位律师也可以确认译文是否精确。
WEBSITES
网站
Madrid tourism: esmadrid.com/en
马德里旅游网：esmadrid.com/en
Official tourism portal for Spain: spain.info
西班牙官方旅游门户网站：spain.info
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
语言和货币
Spanish; euro (1 euro = $1.10)
西班牙语；欧元（1欧元=1.1美元，约合人民币6.86元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Spain’s taxes and fees are generally in line with European standards. A transfer tax based on the purchase price is typically 7 to 10 percent, depending on the region. The seller is usually responsible for the agent’s fee, which can range between 3 percent and 8 percent of the price. The total fees for a notary, lawyer and registration can add another 1 percent for buyers.
西班牙的税费总体上与欧洲标准一致。房地产转让税以购买价为基础，一般收取7%至10%，各地略有不同。卖方一般负责代理人的费用，其数额从房价的3%至8%不等。公证人、律师和注册手续的合计费用可能会给买家再增加1%的支出。
The annual property tax is generally 0.4 percent to 1.1 percent of the property’s appraised value, also depending on local standards. This apartment is in a historic listed building and is exempt from property tax, but there is a monthly charge of 250 euros for building maintenance, Mr. Moran said.
每年的房地产税一般是该房产估价的0.4%至1.1%，具体也取决于地方标准。莫兰说，这套公寓位于一栋已被列入名录的历史建筑当中，所以免交房产税，但每个月需缴纳一笔250欧元（约合人民币1716元）的建筑维护费。
CONTACT
联系方式
Javier Moran, Knight Frank Spain, (011) 34 915 959 036; knightfrank.es
Javier Moran, Knight Frank Spain, (011) 34 915 959 036; knightfrank.es