WASHINGTON — The roiling debate over security and liberty did not end with President Obama’s newly announced overhaul of surveillance practices. Rather, it now enters a volatile next phase as intelligence agencies and a divided Congress try to turn principles into policy.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统针对情报监控行动提出了改革举措，但关于安全和隐私的沸沸扬扬的辩论，却并未因此停止。随着情报机关和分歧深重的国会试图将原则转变为切实的政策，这场辩论将会进入一个变幻莫测的新阶段。
In responding to months of uproar about government spying, Mr. Obama left to be decided the details that would determine just how meaningful the change he promised would be. He asked security officials to develop ways to protect the privacy of foreigners. He asked Congress to help figure out how to store bulk telephone data. He invited other proposals to restructure a secret intelligence court.
对于公众过去数月来对政府情报操作的愤怒，奥巴马给予了回应，但他承诺的变革到底会有多大意义，则取决于一些尚未敲定的细节。他要求情报官员构想一些方法，保护外国人的隐私权，他要求国会帮助确定该怎样储存大量的电话数据，还邀请人们提出其他建议，改革一家秘密情报法庭。
All of which means that the future shape of a surveillance apparatus whose secrets have been uncomfortably exposed remains far from certain. The assurances Mr. Obama offered his critics may be made more nebulous by exceptions written into any new policies. The question of what to do with a vast trove of data on everyday Americans may elude policy makers who cannot agree on much. And yet legislators may find their usual politics scrambled by an issue that crosses party lines.
情报机关的秘密受到揭露后引起了广泛的不安，但上述情况却说明，情报机关未来的形态仍然远未确定。尽管奥巴马对他的批评者作出了保证，但是可能写进政策文本里的特别条款，却会让他的保证显得更加含混。政策制定者们很少能就什么事情达成共识，对于应该如何处理涉及美国普通民众的大量数据，他们大概也不会有什么决断。而议员们或许会发现，这项超越党派立场的议题，打乱了他们惯常的政治考量。
“It’s the beginning of a long process, and the end on some of this is still unclear,” said former Representative Jane Harman, an author of the last major surveillance law and now the president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. “But the good news is now there’s a full debate in the Congress and in the country about our values and how to address security and liberty at the same time.”
“这是一个漫长过程的开端，而且某些议题的最终结果仍不明朗，”参与起草上一份重要情报法案的前众议员简·哈曼(Jane Harman)说。“但好消息是，现在国会中乃至整个国家，都对我们的价值观，以及如何兼顾安全和自由的问题，展开了充分的辩论。”哈曼现在是伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)主任。
The debate injects the touchy issue into the congressional arena as lawmakers enter an election year. Where once there was little popular demand for reining in the spy agencies, today momentum has built in some quarters after many disclosures by Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor.
随着议员们进入选举年，这场辩论将这个敏感的议题抛向了国会选举的角逐之中。过去并没有多少民众呼吁约束间谍机构，但在前国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露诸多细节之后，今天在一些人群中产生了巨大的呼声。
Mr. Obama’s approach, outlined in a much-anticipated speech on Friday, leaves intact the spy programs that have stirred so much debate but modifies them in hopes of persuading the public that they will not be abused. The N.S.A. will have to get court permission to search a vast repository of telephone data and will not be able to expand the search as far as it did before.
奥巴马在上周五一次备受期待的讲话中阐述了自己的计划，那些引起激烈争论的间谍项目将被完整地保存下来，只是会做出一些调整，他希望以此能说服公众，他们的权利不会受到侵犯。NSA要想搜索浩大的电话数据库，需要得到法庭的批准，而且搜索的范围也不能扩大到以前的程度了。
But Mr. Obama had no answer for the biggest question involving the bulk data collection program. Although he said the government should no longer keep the data, he outlined flaws in the only two alternatives floated so far: leaving data with telecommunications providers or creating an independent consortium to store it. He assigned the attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., and the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., to develop a plan and asked Congress to help.
但是对于涉及大规模数据收集项目的最重大问题，奥巴马并没有给出答案。尽管他说政府不应该再保留这些数据，但他对目前提出的仅有的两个替代方案都指出了缺陷，这两种方案分别是让电信服务提供商保存数据，或建立一个独立机构来保存数据。他委托司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)和国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)制定计划，并要求国会提供帮助。
Unlike many divisive issues to arrive on Capitol Hill, this one appears unlikely to die after a wait for a floor debate that never happens, or to be thwarted by the parliamentary maneuver of an uncompromising leader.
很多存在争论的议题在提交国会时，很容易迟迟无法列入审议日程，因而不了了之，也很容易被某个不肯让步的领导人物利用议事程序扼杀——但这项议题似乎不会落入这种下场。
“Reformers may not get all of what we want,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut. “But I think there’s a very real prospect of doing better than the president has proposed, and he’s acknowledged himself that there may be a need for taking additional steps.”
“主张改革的人或许不会得到所有想要的东西，”康涅狄格州民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)说。“不过我认为，做到比总统的提议更好，是有很大希望的。而他自己也承认，或许需要进一步采取措施。”
Others were not so certain. “This happens all the time in Washington,” said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky and a vocal critic of surveillance programs. “Everybody gets in an uproar — ‘Congress must act! Congress must act!’ But when they do act, they do something devious and don’t really address the problem.”
另一些人却并没有这么确定。肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)对监控计划持尖锐的批评态度。他说，“华盛顿总是会发生这种情况：所有人都愤怒地高呼‘国会要行动！国会要行动！’可是等到国会真的采取行动时，却会绕来绕去，并不真正解决问题。”
Indeed, supporters of the N.S.A. programs say they expect Congress to resist undercutting programs that protect the public. “You will see changes at the margins with significant ambiguities and exceptions that will provide the executive branch with lots of flexibility,” predicted former Representative Peter Hoekstra, Republican of Michigan, a onetime chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.
的确，NSA监控项目的支持者称，他们预期国会将会阻挠削弱这些计划的举措，因为这些计划是在保护公众。曾担任众议院情报委员会主席(House Intelligence Committee)的前密歇根州共和党众议员彼得·胡克斯特拉(Peter Hoekstra)预测，“你会看到细枝末节的变动，但会有明显语焉不详的地方。也会有些例外，给行政分支留下极大的裁量空间。”
What distinguishes the surveillance issue from so many that have stymied a polarized Congress is that it does not follow easy patterns. The libertarian right, represented by Mr. Paul, has joined the liberal left, represented by lawmakers like Senator Bernard Sanders of Vermont, an independent who calls himself a socialist.
监控议题之所以不会像以往的许多议题那样，在分歧深重的国会中止步不前，是因为这项议题上，议员们的立场并没有遵循显而易见的模式，自由意志派的右翼与自由派的左翼站在了同一边。前者以兰德·保罗为代表，后者以佛蒙特州参议员贝纳德·桑德斯(Bernard Sanders)为代表。桑德斯是独立人士，自称社会主义者。
On the other side are the leaders of both parties, like Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, leaders of the Intelligence Committees and supporters of the surveillance programs. The two attended Mr. Obama’s speech on Friday at the Justice Department, then lingered together afterward consulting with Mr. Clapper. Within a few hours, the two issued a joint statement defending the programs.
站在另一边的是两党的领导层，如加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)和密歇根州共和党众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)，他们是两院情报委员会的领导者，也是监控计划的支持者。奥巴马周五在司法部发表讲话时，范斯坦和罗杰斯也出席了，之后二人又留下来与克拉珀商谈。几个小时后，他们就发表了一份联合声明，为监控计划进行辩护。
In the Senate, the debate sets up a possible clash among three of the most powerful and headstrong Democrats: Ms. Feinstein; Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, chairman of the Judiciary Committee and an advocate for expansive changes; and Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, who feels pinched between the White House and members of his caucus.
在参议院，这场辩论可能会在三名最顽固，势力也最大的民主党大佬之间引发冲突：范斯坦；佛蒙特州参议员、司法委员会主席帕特里克·J·莱希(Patrick J. Leahy)，他主张采取广泛的改革；以及参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)，他感觉自己夹在白宫和民主党参议员之间，处境尴尬。
In the House, the issue pits Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio against some in his Republican caucus. When the House debated a bill that would have blocked the N.S.A. from collecting bulk telephone data, the measure came within a dozen votes of passing. Although speakers rarely vote, Mr. Boehner took the unusual step of voting in opposition.
在众议院，这个议题也让来自俄亥俄州的议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)与一些共和党同僚产生了矛盾。众议院就一项禁止NSA大规模收集电话数据的议案进行辩论时，该法案只差十几票就通过了。尽管议长极少投票，但博纳做出了这个少见的举动，投出了反对票。
Mr. Boehner has not endorsed the legislation that seems most likely to be the vehicle for the debate over N.S.A. practices this year, which has been drafted by Mr. Leahy and Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, who as an author of the Patriot Act holds considerable sway with his Republican colleagues. The bill would end bulk data collection and establish an independent counsel to argue against government requests at the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.
一直以来，博纳并没有支持这项法案，尽管这项法案似乎最有可能反映今年对于NSA的间谍行为展开的辩论。该项法案将终止大规模数据搜集的行为，还会设置一个独立的辩护人，负责在外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)上反驳政府的申请。该法案是莱希与威斯康星州众议员吉姆·森森布伦纳(Jim Sensenbrenner)起草的，后者也是《爱国者法案》的主要作者之一，在共和党同僚中拥有相当的影响力。
“The bottom line is real reform cannot be done by presidential fiat,” Mr. Sensenbrenner said, bluntly making the case that Congress has to act where the White House stopped short. “The president and intelligence community have repeatedly misled Congress and the American people and lack credibility for reform.”
森森布伦纳坦率地阐述道，白宫没能做到的事，国会必须要采取行动。“说到底，真正的改革不能通过总统的指令来实施。总统和情报部门曾反复误导国会以及美国民众，缺乏实行改革的公信力。”