What if Billy Bush had just changed the subject?
如果比利·布什(Billy Bush)当时转移了话题，会是什么结果？
As unlikely as that may sound to anyone who has heard the infamous 2005 tape of Donald J. Trump boasting about sexually accosting women to the chuckling encouragement of Mr. Bush, an “Access Hollywood” host at the time, it just might have stifled the celebrity billionaire.
对所有听过唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)2005年那段录音的人来说，尽管听起来不太可能，但它可能已经葬送了这位亿万富翁名人。在那段录音里，特朗普在当时的《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)主持人布什笑声的鼓励下，大谈自己如何性引诱女性。
A body of psychological research shows that even mild pushback against offensive remarks can have an instant effect — as difficult as that can be, especially with a boss, a friend or a celebrity.
大量的心理研究显示，对于冒犯性的言论，哪怕是温和的反驳也会立即产生效果——尽管这很难做到，尤其是在面对老板、朋友或名人的时候。
It is research worth considering in a political season when ethnic, racist and sexual slurs, not to mention general insults, seem to have become part of everyday chatter. Polls show that people are increasingly unhappy with the tenor of the national debate but unsure what to do about the decline in civility.
这种研究值得深思。在当前的政治季，民族、种族和性侮辱似乎已经成了日常谈话内容的一部分，更别说一般的侮辱了。民调显示，人们对这场全国性讨论的基调越来越不满，但却不清楚该对文明礼仪的倒退采取什么行动。
Researchers have detailed the difficulty of confronting prejudice, but they have also found that even the politest of objections — or subtle corrections to loaded words — can almost instantly curb a speaker’s behavior. With a clearer understanding of the dynamics of such confrontation, psychologists say, people can develop tactics that can shut down the unsavory talk without ruining relationships, even when the offender has more status or power: a fraternity president, say, or a team captain or employer.
研究人员已经详叙了直面偏见之难，但他们也发现，哪怕是最为礼貌的反对，或者是对冒犯言辞稍加纠正，都能立刻抑制说话者的行为。心理学家说，就面对这种情况时的动态有了更清楚的理解之后，人们可以培养策略技巧，在终止令人不快的谈话同时，又不会损害双方的关系，哪怕冒犯者拥有更高的地位或者更大的权势，比如大学生联谊会的主席，或者球队队长，或者老板。
The alternative is passive complicity, psychologists say. “When we hear this egregious, uncomfortable talk and we don’t speak up, what’s actually happening is that the person speaking is getting a green light,” said Sharyn J. Potter, co-director of the Prevention Innovations Research Center, at the University of New Hampshire. “It encourages them.”
心理学家表示，此外的选择只能是被动同谋。“在听到令人震惊、令人不适的谈话时，我们不吭气，说话的人就等于获得了放行的绿灯，”新罕布什尔大学(University of New Hampshire)预防创新研究中心( Prevention Innovations Research Center)的联席主任莎琳·J.波特(Sharyn J. Potter)说道。“这是在鼓励他们。”
It hardly takes a psychologist to explain the difficulty inherent in any such confrontation. “Simply saying, ‘I don’t appreciate that comment,’ or ‘That’s not cool’ — well, people aren’t going to like you very much after that,” said Linda Tropp, a professor of psychology at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. “But they do get defensive, and change their behavior quickly.”
其实我们无需成为心理学家就可以解释清楚，这种对峙当中所固有的难度。“如果直截了当地说‘我不认同样的说法’或者‘这样说不好哦’，那么，这些人此后会觉得你这个人比较讨厌，”马萨诸塞大学阿默斯特分校(University of Massachusetts, Amherst)的心理学教授琳达·特罗普(Linda Tropp)说道。“但他们真的会采取防御姿态，迅速改变自己的行为。”
It is important to realize that you don’t have to make a dramatic, principled stand. “We don’t want bystanders to think they have to fly in with their Superman cape,” said Dr. Potter, who is also an associate professor of sociology.
重要的是要知道，你可以不必非得把场面弄得太难看，寸步不让。“我们并不希望旁观者认为他们得披着超人的斗篷飞来灭火，”同时也是社会学副教授的波特博士说道。
There are many approaches people can use to stop talk they find noxious, say experts in what is known as bystander education. Among them: distraction, such as abruptly changing the subject. “Even in the locker room, guys can change the conversation, they can spray people with water, or crank up the music,” Dr. Potter said.
所谓“旁观者教育”(bystander education)的专家们说，人们有很多方式可以用来中止让他们觉得讨厌的交谈。其中包括分散注意力，比如突然改变话题。“就算在更衣室里，男人们也可以改变话题，他们可以互相喷水，或者把音乐开大，”波特博士说。
Rather than calling out the speaker and shaming him or her publicly, which can carry the risk of retaliation, you could make it about you. “You could say: ‘This is bothering me. One of my good friends was raped.’” Dr. Potter said. “If you put it on yourself, that might feel safer.”
直接指出那个说话者的问题或是让对方当众出丑可能招来报复，你可以把问题转到自己头上。“你可以说：‘这让我觉得不舒服。我有个好朋友被强暴过。’”波特博士说。“如果你把问题转到自己头上，可能就会感觉安全一点。”
Or you can try humor.
你也可以试试幽默。
Gail Stern, an educator and a co-founder of Catharsis Productions, which gives sexual violence prevention training on college campuses and in the military, said that one deft approach might be to assume that the speaker is being outrageous on purpose, and to respond with something like this: “I love satire. It’s so weird that people believe that for real and it’s so cool you called that out.”
教育家盖尔·斯特恩(Gail Stern)是“宣泄产品”(Catharsis Productions)的联合创始人之一，该项目在大学校园和军队内提供预防性暴力的培训，他说，一个好办法就是假定对方是在故作惊人之语，然后用这么一句话回答：“我喜欢讽刺。这种事居然也会有人信，真是太怪了。你这么指出问题还挺酷的。”
She calls that tactic “verbal aikido,” after the Japanese martial art whose practitioners defend themselves by redirecting an opponent’s attack.
她说这种办法是一种“语言合气道(aikido)”——合气道是一种日本武术，武者用借力打力的方式保护自己。
An essential component of bystander intervention training is to get participants to imagine their own responses to scenarios. The goal is to get people to arm themselves with approaches that feel natural and innate, rather than outfitting them with model scripts. “If you have a plan in your head, then you can use it,” Dr. Potter said.
旁观者干预训练的一个重要成分就是让参与者想象自己在各种不同情况下的回答。目的是帮助人们用各种让自己感到自然和自在的办法武装自己，而不是让他们去背一套规范化的台词。“如果你头脑中有个方案，用它就是了，”波特博士说。
Psychologists who study the effects of such confrontation divide offensive behavior into two loose categories. One includes strangers acting out — a mother who slaps a toddler, a boy who punches his girlfriend — and bystanders, when they react, tend to do so viscerally and quickly. The other category includes offensive jokes or references among people who know one another, like friends or co-workers. In those cases, there are more gray areas, as well as personality factors to consider and often a relationship at stake. Objections, if they come, often take a little longer than bystander intervention does.
就这类反对的效果进行研究的心理学家，把冒犯行为粗略分为两类。一类涉及有具体行动的陌生人——一名母亲扇了幼儿一巴掌，一个男孩打了女友——以及通常是发自肺腑地迅速做出反应的旁观者。另一类涉及朋友、同事等相互认识的人之间带有冒犯意味的笑话或说法。在这种情况下会有更多灰色地带，人们也会考虑更多个人因素，通常是牵涉其中的关系。即便提出异议，也会比旁观者的介入慢一些。
Deborah Cameron, a professor of language and communication at the University of Oxford, said that sexual banter often takes place among men who are friends, and that “the function of it is to promote bonding.”
哈佛大学(University of Oxford)语言与交流教授德博拉·卡梅伦(Deborah Cameron)说，涉及性的调侃通常发生在男性友人之间，“其功能是让关系更密切”。
Men may feel that if they challenge conversation they find tasteless, or simply don’t join in, “they’re spoiling the mood at a minimum and possibly putting their relationship to the group at risk,” she said. And sometimes they worry that “it will raise doubts about their masculinity or heterosexuality,” or that they will become targets of bullying, said Ms. Cameron, author of “The Myth of Mars and Venus: Do Men and Women Really Speak Different Languages?”
男性或许认为，如果质疑自己觉得没品的谈话，或者仅仅是没加入其中，那“他们至少是在破坏气氛，甚至是在冒与大家的关系可能毁于一旦的风险”，她说道。他们有时还担心“这会引人怀疑他们的男子气概或者异性恋性取向”，或者招致霸凌，卡梅伦说道。她著有《火星与金星的神话:男人与女人真的无法沟通吗》(The Myth of Mars and Venus: Do Men and Women Really Speak Different Languages?)一书。
Yet subtle objections can stop people in midsentence, in some cases prompting later reflection, psychologists have found. In one type of experiment, for example, study participants guess the occupations of people based on a photograph and limited information, like “spends most of his days walking the streets” or “does regular housework.”
不过心理学家发现，即便是微妙的异议也可以打断人们的话头，有时甚至能促成事后的反省。举个例子，在一类实验中，受试者根据照片或有限的信息——比如“大多数日子里都走在街上”或者“做日常家务”——来猜测人们的职业。
Most of these profiles are ethnically neutral. But some are ringers. The photo of a black man who “walks the streets” often prompts guesses of “homeless” rather than mail carrier; and a black woman who depends on money from the government gets identified as a welfare mom instead of a government employee or a student with loans.
大多数简介在种族意义上是中性的。但其中也混进了一些“鸣声装置”。一名黑人男子“走在街上”的照片，通常会引人猜测他“无家可归”，而非觉得他是信差。一名黑人女性靠来自政府的钱过活，会让人以为她是一个吃救济的母亲，而非政府雇员或者背负着贷款的学生。
Then the researchers, under the guise of fellow participants, push back. “We confront them in a variety of ways, sometimes harshly — ‘That’s racist!’ — and sometimes much less so, appealing to equality: ‘Shouldn’t everyone be treated the same?’” said Alexander Czopp, director of the Center for Cross-Cultural Research at Western Washington University. “Depending on how the confrontation is done, the participants might show different levels of defensiveness and anger right away; but they usually show less race-based attitudes on tests we do later.”
然后，研究者扮作受试者与其对抗。“我们以各种不同的方式反对他们，有时非常尖锐——‘这是种族主义！’——有时则不那么尖锐，呼吁他们平等待人：‘难道不是每个人都该受到平等的对待吗？’”西华盛顿大学(Western Washington University)跨文化研究中心主任亚历山大·乔普(Alexander Czopp)说。“受试者遭到不同方式的反对以后，可能会相应地做出不同程度的辩解，表现出不同程度的愤怒；但他们通常在我们的后续测试中减少把自己的态度建立在种族基础之上。”
David Fleischer, director of the Los Angeles LGBT Center’s Leadership Lab, often sends gay and transgender people into socially conservative districts to do face-to-face canvassing. “We have to handle these situations all the time,” said Mr. Fleischer, now canvassing in Cleveland. “We are seeking out people who are prejudiced, and they’re using offensive language. And if you correct that language, just use different words yourself, and your tone and demeanor are kind, people are very responsive, and you don’t have to get into a screaming match.”
洛杉矶LGBT中心(Los Angeles LGBT Center)的领导力实验室(Leadership Lab)主任大卫·弗雷斯彻(David Fletcher)，常常派同性恋和跨性别人士深入社会风气保守的地区，去做面对面的游说。“我们必须时时应对这些状况，”目前正在克利夫兰进行游说的弗雷斯彻说道。“我们找出心怀偏见、使用冒犯性言辞的人。你在纠正其言辞时，只要使用与之不同的措辞，语气和举止都很和善，人们就会给予正面回应，你不必非得卷入一场大呼小叫的对抗里。”
In a recent study, Mr. Fleischer and other researchers found that this kind of canvassing can soften the views of some 10 percent of voters — a large shift when it comes to political behavior, and one that has prompted wider training in such cordial, respectful “correcting” of language.
在最近的一项研究中，弗雷斯彻等研究人员发现，这种游说可以让大约一成选民的观点出现软化——这对政治行为而言是一个非常大的转变，对一个致力于推动开展更广泛的培训，教人像这样诚恳有礼进行言辞“纠正”的人来说也是如此。
Of course, most people never get any training; they make judgments on the fly, about costs, tactics and personal integrity. And some are more likely to speak up than others, new research suggests.
当然了，大多数人从未受到过任何培训；他们会匆忙地就代价、策略、操守做出判断。新的研究显示，一些人与其他人相比更有可能站出来发声。
Aneeta Rattan, an assistant professor of organizational behavior at the London Business School and Carol Dweck of Stanford found in a recent study that people who are optimistic and believe that others can change — that a bigot, with time, can change stripes — are more likely than the pessimists to say something.
伦敦商学院(London Business School)组织行为学的助理教授阿尼塔·拉坦(Aneeta Rattan)和斯坦福大学(Stanford)的卡罗尔·徳韦克(Carol Dweck)，在最近的一项研究中发现，比起悲观主义者，那些生性乐观，认为其他人会有所改变——假以时日，即便是顽固的人也会改头换面——的人更有可能出来说话。
“In that sense,” Dr. Rattan said, “this work suggests that your belief system about others can either be a barrier or a staircase where you can take that first step — even if it’s just saying, ‘I disagree.’”
“在这个意义上，”拉坦说，“这项研究工作表明，你关于他人的信仰体系既可以成为一种障碍，也可以成为一道阶梯，你可以在那里迈出第一步——即便只是说一句，‘我不敢苟同’。”