DURHAM, N.C. — IT all began in 2003, when a German official flew into the wilds of northern Mali with three suitcases full of cash to secure the release of 14 European hostages. That first big ransom breathed life into the militant group known as Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, and laid the groundwork for a kidnap economy that now finances Islamist extremist groups around the globe.
北卡罗来纳州杜伦——这一切都始于2003年，当时一名德国官员拿着三个装满现金的手提箱，飞赴马里北部的荒野，以此换取14名欧洲人质的自由。这第一笔大宗赎金，为名为“伊斯兰马格里布基地组织”(Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb)的武装团体注入了活力，也为今天在世界各地为伊斯兰派极端团体提供资金的绑架经济奠定了基础。
Foreigners who stumble into this world are highly prized assets: They are tracked, abducted, sold from one militant group to another and held for months, or even years, in the hope of a multimillion-dollar payday. Such hopes are kept alive by France, Germany and other European governments that routinely facilitate ransom payments for the release of their own citizens.
不慎踏入这个世界的外国人，成了一种大受追捧的资产：他们受到跟踪、绑架，从一个武装团体卖给另一个武装团体，而这些武装团体为了有朝一日取得数百万美元的赎金，会将他们拘禁数月甚至数年。这种希望之所以存在，是因为法国、德国及其他欧洲国家的政府，为了换取本国公民的释放，惯于为支付赎金提供便利。
The United States steadfastly refuses to pay ransom, which undoubtedly reduces the price that American hostages fetch in the kidnap economy. However, money isn’t the only motivator for those holding hostages; they are also used to demonstrate the groups’ ferocity, as shown recently by the Islamic State’s gruesome killings of two Japanese men.
美国坚定地拒绝支付任何赎金，这毫无疑问降低了美国人质在绑架经济中的价格。然而，金钱并不是挟持人质的唯一动机。绑架行为也被用来显示这些团体的凶狠，就像最近“伊斯兰国”(Islamic State)残忍杀害两名日本男子一样。
We can therefore expect the Islamic State, or any other violent group looking to put a thumb in the eye of the United States, to continue abducting Americans at every opportunity. Worse yet, these hostages, no longer being held for ransom, may be essentially impossible to find and rescue since their kidnappers, freed from the need to contact ransom-payers, will be able to lie low in more remote locations.
因此，我们可以预料，伊斯兰国或者其他任何暴力团体，仍然会对美国不利，继续抓紧一切机会挟持美国人。更糟糕的是，由于挟持这些人质不再是为了索要赎金，绑架者不再需要联系支付赎金的人，他们就可以隐藏在更偏远的地点，因而找到并挽救人质实际上也就不再存有可能性。
The good news is there is a way to change this game, to turn the tables on terrorist kidnappers and undermine the kidnap economy. Law enforcement already offers a model for finding criminals whose illegal activities are so secretive that they cannot possibly be found by any amount of detective work — namely, business cartels.
好消息是，有一种办法能改变这场游戏的玩法，让绑架人质的恐怖分子陷入被动，并破坏绑架经济。执法人员已经提出了一种模型，找出那些非法活动十分隐秘，以至于无论做出多少侦查努力，都无法抓获的犯罪分子——也就是说，商业卡特尔。
Throughout the 1980s, federal investigators did not catch a single major business cartel, despite having a whole division at the Department of Justice devoted to the task. That’s because business cartels, groups of companies that work together in secret to fix prices, can be nearly impossible to detect. Take so-called Vitamins Inc., a major international cartel that fixed vitamin prices for years but kept its activities under wraps, with its representatives meeting secretly just once a year, keeping no written notes and even lying under oath to protect the conspiracy.
在整个1980年代，联邦调查人员连一个大型商业卡特尔都没有破获，尽管美国司法部(Department of Justice)有整个部门专门从事这项工作。这是因为商业卡特尔，也就是串通起来合谋操纵价格的一群公司，几乎不可能被侦查到。比如所谓的“维生素公司”(Vitamins Inc.)。这是一个大型国际卡特尔，它持续多年操纵维生素的价格，然而所有活动都不为外界所知。其代表每年只是秘密会面一次，不保留任何书面笔记，为了保护串通的阴谋，甚至还会在发誓说真话时对司法机关撒谎。
That all changed, suddenly and dramatically, in 1993 when the Department of Justice instituted a new program offering complete immunity to the first firm in a cartel to confess. As Scott Hammond, the head of the department’s Antitrust Division, explained in a 2010 speech, “The notion of letting hard-core cartel participants escape punishment was initially unsettling to many prosecutors.” But, he added, they “recognized that the grant of full immunity was necessary to induce cartel participants to turn on each other.”
这种局面在1993年突然发生剧变。司法部推行了一个新项目，宣布卡特尔中第一家供认罪行的企业完全免罚。司法部反托拉斯部门的负责人斯科特·哈蒙德(Scott Hammond)在2010年的一次演讲中说，“让死硬的卡特尔参与者逃脱惩罚，一开始时令很多检察人员感到不满。”不过他接着说道，他们“认识到，给予彻底的豁免权，对于诱导卡特尔参与者相互出卖，是必要的。”
And turn on each other they did; soon convictions and settlements in the United States alone were generating hundreds of millions of dollars in fines each year.
而且他们的确彼此出卖了。很快，单单是美国的法庭判决和庭外和解，每年就产生了数亿美元的罚金。
As different as corporate collusion and international terrorism are, the same model that has been so successful at catching business cartels can be used to disrupt kidnapping networks.
尽管企业相互勾结不同于国际恐怖主义，但是鉴于击破商业卡特尔的模式如此成功，同样的模式也可以用于破坏绑架网络。
Imagine what would happen if the federal government were to offer a million-dollar reward and promise safety to anyone — Islamic State militant or not — who provided information that led to the rescue of American hostages, and the capture or killing of their kidnappers. Holding an American hostage would then become fraught with peril, no matter where the kidnappers might hide, as anyone, even one of their own, might turn on them at any time.
设想一下，如果联邦政府提供数百万美元的奖励，并承诺保障任何一个人的安全，无论他是不是伊斯兰国武装分子——只要他提供的情报帮助美国人质获释，帮助抓捕或击毙了绑架者。无论绑架者藏在哪里，绑架美国人质都会充满危险，因为任何人，包括他们的自己人，都可能随时背叛他们。
The infrastructure for such a program already exists. Rewards for Justice, a State Department initiative originally authorized by the 1984 Act to Combat International Terrorism, offers money “for information that leads to the arrest or conviction of anyone who plans, commits, or attempts international terrorist acts against U.S. persons or property, that prevents such acts from occurring in the first place ... or that disrupts terrorist financing.” Targeting terrorist kidnapping rings fits within this framework, by disrupting terrorist financing (by avoiding future kidnappings and ransoms) and by preventing terrorist acts against Americans (by stopping executions). It just needs to be authorized for this purpose.
这种项目的基础架构已经存在了。司法部的“正义悬赏”(Rewards for Justice)项目最初由1984年《打击国际恐怖主义法案》(Act to Combat International Terrorism)授权设立，该项目“对于导致任何计划、实施、试图开展国际恐怖主义行动，危害美国民众或财产的人员被逮捕或被判刑的情报，避免此类行动实际发生的情报……或破坏恐怖分子融资的情报”给予金钱回报。打击恐怖分子的绑架团伙符合这个框架，它可以破坏恐怖分子的融资（避免未来发生绑架事件和支付赎金），避免针对美国人的恐怖行动（避免斩首）。只需要针对这个目的取得授权即可。
Moreover, there’s clearly a market for this sort of reward. In December The Times reported that an Islamic State commander had contacted the American Embassy in Ankara, Turkey, with an offer to smuggle James Foley to safety, in exchange for $750,000 and asylum in the United States. Embassy officials refused to even discuss it, saying, “We don’t negotiate with terrorists.”
除此之外，这种赏金显然是有市场的。去年12月，时报报道称，一名伊斯兰国指挥官联系了美国驻土耳其安卡拉的大使馆，提出将詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)偷运到安全地点，条件是75万美元，并获准在美国避难。大使馆官员甚至拒绝讨论他的要求，称“我们不和恐怖分子谈判”。
To save future American hostages, the government needs to recognize that there is, in fact, a time when it should negotiate with terrorists: when one of them is willing to turn on his comrades and help us rescue one of our own. And when that happens, the American government should be willing to offer asylum, just as it gives criminal informants a fresh start in the witness protection program if they are willing to turn on organized crime.
为了保护未来的美国人质，政府必须认识到，实际上有一种情况应当与恐怖分子谈判：也就是其中一个愿意背弃同党，帮助我们挽救自己人时。如果发生这种情形，美国政府应当乐于提供避难，就像政府通过证人保护计划，为愿意举报有组织犯罪的线人，提供一个新开始一样。