Noah Muthler took his first state standardized test in third grade at the Spring Cove Elementary School in Roaring Spring, Pa. It was a miserable experience, said his mother, Kathleen Muthler. He was a good student in a program for gifted children. But, Muthler said, “he was crying in my arms the night before the test, saying: ‘I’m not ready, Mom. They didn’t teach us everything that will be on the test.’ ” In fourth grade, he was upset the whole week before the exam. “He manifests it physically,” his mother said. “He got headaches and stomachaches. He would ask not to go to school.” Not a good sleeper anyway, Noah would slip downstairs after an hour tossing in bed and ask his mom to lie down with him until he fell asleep. In fifth grade, the anxiety lasted a solid month before the test. “Even after the test, he couldn’t let it go. He would wonder about questions he feared he misunderstood,” Muthler said.
诺亚·穆斯勒(Noah Muthler)第一次参加州级标准化考试是在宾夕法尼亚州哮泉市的泉湾(Spring Cove)小学，当时他在读三年级。他的妈妈凯瑟琳·穆斯勒(Kathleen Muthler)说那是一次痛苦的经历。在资优班里，他是个优秀的学生。但是穆斯勒说：“在考试的前一晚他在我的怀里边哭边说：‘妈妈，我还没准备好。有些要考的内容是没教过的。’”四年级时，他在考试前的一整个星期里都坐立不安。“这种不安体现在生理上，”他的妈妈说，“他会头疼和胃疼，跟我说不想去上学。”诺亚的睡眠也不好，他在床上辗转反侧一个小时之后会溜到楼下，让妈妈躺在他旁边，直到他睡着。五年级时，这种焦虑已经延长到了考试前的一整个月。“甚至在考完试之后，他都无法放松。他还会思考那些他担心做错了的题。”穆斯勒说。
So this year, Muthler is opting Noah out of the Pennsylvania System of School Assessment, using a broad religious and ethical exemption. Just knowing he won’t be taking the tests in March has put Noah in a better frame of mind about school. “The pressure is off his shoulders now,” his mother said. When he doesn’t grasp a concept immediately, he can talk it through without any panic. “He looks forward to science class and math class again,” Muthler said. “He wants to be a chemical or nuclear engineer.”
所以今年，穆斯勒通过“宗教和伦理”豁免，让诺亚脱离了宾夕法尼亚州的学校评估体系。光是得知3月份不用参加考试这一点，就已经让诺亚在上学时状态更好。“他现在没有压力了，”他的妈妈说道。当他不能立刻掌握一个概念时，他可以毫不畏惧地说出来了。“他又对科学和数学课充满期待了，”穆斯勒说，“他想成为一名化学或核工程师。”
Muthler understands Noah’s distress; more mysterious is why her son Jacob, who is in eighth grade, isn’t the least bit unnerved by the same tests. He, too, is in the gifted program, but that seems to give him breezy confidence, not fear. “You would think he doesn’t even care,” Muthler marveled. “Noah has the panic and anxiety for both of them.” Nevertheless, she will opt out Jacob from the tests, too, to be consistent.
穆斯勒理解诺亚的痛苦；其实更让她费解的是另一个儿子雅各布(Jacob)。雅各布读八年级（相当于中国的初二——译注），对于同样的考试却完全不觉得紧张。他虽然也在资优班里，但这带给他的是自信而不是恐惧。“你会觉得他毫不在乎，”穆斯勒对此感到惊讶，“而诺亚既恐慌又紧张。”不过，为了让两兄弟一致，她也会让雅各布免除考试。
Never before has the pressure to perform on high-stakes tests been so intense or meant so much for a child’s academic future. As more school districts strive for accountability, standardized tests have proliferated. The pressure to do well on achievement tests for college is filtering its way down to lower grades, so that even third graders feel as if they are on trial. Students get the message that class work isn’t what counts, and that the standardized exam is the truer measure. Sure, you did your homework and wrote a great history report — but this test is going to find out how smart you really are. Critics argue that all this test-taking is churning out sleep-deprived, overworked, miserable children.
应付重大考试的压力从未如此强大，也从没有对一个孩子未来的学业意味着这么多。随着越来越多的学区追求“成绩责任制”(accountability)，标准化考试的数量激增。面对大学入学的成就测试时的压力正逐级向下渗透，所以就连三年级的学生都感觉自己在受到考验。学生们也体会到了功课并不重要，标准化考试才是更真实的衡量。当然，你完成了家庭作业，也写了一篇很棒的历史报告——但是只有考试才能说明你真正有多聪明。评论家们指出这种应试教育催生出了睡眠不足、劳累过度、境遇悲惨的孩子们。
But some children actually do better under competitive, stressful circumstances. Why can Jacob thrive under pressure, while it undoes Noah? And how should that difference inform the way we think about high-stakes testing? An emerging field of research — and a pioneering study from Taiwan — has begun to offer some clues. Like any kind of human behavior, our response to competitive pressure is derived from a complex set of factors — how we were raised, our skills and experience, the hormones that we marinated in as fetuses. There is also a genetic component: One particular gene, referred to as the COMT gene, could to a large degree explain why one child is more prone to be a worrier, while another may be unflappable, or in the memorable phrasing of David Goldman, a geneticist at the National Institutes of Health, more of a warrior.
但是有些孩子的确在竞争和压力环境下发挥得更好。为什么雅各布能够承受压力，但诺亚却做不到？这种差异会使我们如何看待重大考试？一个新兴的研究领域，以及一项来自台湾的开拓性研究——已为我们提供了一些线索。和任何形式的人类行为一样，我们对于竞争压力的反应是一系列复杂因素影响的结果——我们的成长环境、技能和经历，以及我们在胚胎期就形成的荷尔蒙。还有一个遗传因素——一个叫作COMT的特殊基因，能从很大程度上解释为什么有的孩子总是忧心忡忡，有的孩子表现镇定，借用美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)遗传学家大卫·高曼(David Goldman)那句经典的描述，一些更容易成为“忧士”(worrier)，而另一些更像是“勇士”(warrior)。
Understanding their propensity to become stressed and how to deal with it can help children compete. Stress turns out to be far more complicated than we’ve assumed, and far more under our control than we imagine. Unlike long-term stress, short-term stress can actually help people perform, and viewing it that way changes its effect. Even for those genetically predisposed to anxiety, the antidote isn’t necessarily less competition — it’s more competition. It just needs to be the right kind.
理解孩子们的焦虑倾向以及如何处理，就能够帮助他们克服。焦虑比我们假设的更加复杂，也比我们想象中更容易掌控。和长期的焦虑不同，短期焦虑其实有助于人们的表现，而且如果这样看待的话，就可以改变它的效应。即使对于那些从遗传角度容易焦虑的人来说，解决的办法不一定是减少竞争——而是增加竞争。不过要用正确的方式。
Every May in Taiwan, more than 200,000 ninth-grade children take the Basic Competency Test for Junior High School Students. This is not just any test. The scores will determine which high school the students are admitted to — or if they get into one at all. Only 39 percent of Taiwanese children make the cut, with the rest diverted to vocational schools or backup private schools. The test, in essence, determines the future for Taiwanese children.
在台湾，每年5月有超过20万的九年级学生要参加“国民中学学生基本学力测验”。这不是一次普通的考试，这个分数将决定学生会被哪所高中录取——或者能不能入读高中。只有39%的学生能过关，剩下的就只能去职业学校或后备的私立学校。从本质上来说，这次考试决定着台湾学生的未来。
The test is incredibly difficult; answering the multiple-choice questions requires knowledge of chemistry, physics, advanced algebra and geometry, and testing lasts for two days. “Many students go to cram school almost every night to study all the subjects on the test,” says Chun-Yen Chang, director of the Science Education Center at National Taiwan Normal University. “Just one or two percentage points difference will drag you from the No. 1 high school in the local region down to No. 3 or 4.”
考试的难度超乎想象；多项选择题涵盖了化学、物理、高等代数和几何学，而且考试要持续两天。“很多学生几乎每天晚上都要去上补习班，学习要考的各类科目，”国立台湾师范大学科学教育中心的主任张俊彦表示，“只是一两个百分点的差距就能让你从本区排名第一的高中落到第三名或第四名的学校。”
In other words, the exam was a perfect, real world experiment for studying the effects of genetics on high-stakes competition. Chang and his research team took blood samples from 779 students who had recently taken the Basic Competency Test in three regions of Taiwan. They matched each student’s genotype to his or her test score.
换句话说，这个考试对于研究“遗传学对高风险竞争的影响”是一个完美的、现实世界的实验。张俊彦和他的研究团队从最近在台湾三个地区参加了基本学力测验的779名学生中提取了血液样本，并把每个学生的基因型和测试成绩进行了配对。
The researchers were interested in a single gene, the COMT gene. This gene carries the assembly code for an enzyme that clears dopamine from the prefrontal cortex. That part of the brain is where we plan, make decisions, anticipate future consequences and resolve conflicts. “Dopamine changes the firing rate of neurons, speeding up the brain like a turbocharger,” says Silvia Bunge, associate professor of psychology and neuroscience at the University of California, Berkeley. Our brains work best when dopamine is maintained at an optimal level. You don’t want too much, or too little. By removing dopamine, the COMT enzyme helps regulate neural activity and maintain mental function.
研究者们感兴趣的是一个单个基因——COMT基因。这种基因带有一种酶的汇编代码，而这种酶会清除大脑前额皮质的多巴胺。前额皮质是主管我们做计划、做决定、期待未来的结果，以及解决冲突的区域。“多巴胺会改变神经元的触发率，像涡轮增压器一样使大脑加速运行，”加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的心理学和神经科学副教授西尔维娅·邦吉(Silvia Bunge)指出。当多巴胺处于一个理想水平，我们的大脑会达到最佳的工作状态。太多或太少都不行。COMT酶是通过移除多巴胺来调节神经活动和保持大脑的功能的。
Here’s the thing: There are two variants of the gene. One variant builds enzymes that slowly remove dopamine. The other variant builds enzymes that rapidly clear dopamine. We all carry the genes for one or the other, or a combination of the two.
不过问题在于：有两类不同的基因，一类能够构建出缓慢移除多巴胺的酶，而另一类构建的是快速清除多巴胺的酶。我们都带有这两类基因之一，或者是两类基因的组合。
In lab experiments, people have been given a variety of cognitive tasks — computerized puzzles and games, portions of I.Q. tests — and researchers have consistently found that, under normal conditions, those with slow-acting enzymes have a cognitive advantage. They have superior executive function and all it entails: they can reason, solve problems, orchestrate complex thought and better foresee consequences. They can concentrate better. This advantage appears to increase with the number of years of education.
在实验室实验中，受试者被安排完成一系列认知任务——计算机字谜和游戏，以及一部分智商测试——研究者们一致发现，在正常条件下，那些“慢作用酶”具有认知优势。它们有优秀的执行功能以及该功能所需要的一切“能力”：它们能够推论、解决问题、编排复杂的思维，以及更好地预见后果。它们更加专注。这种优势会随着受教育的年数增加而增长。
The brains of the people with the other variant, meanwhile, are comparatively lackadaisical. The fast-acting enzymes remove too much dopamine, so the overall level is too low. The prefrontal cortex simply doesn’t work as well.
而拥有另一类基因的人的大脑就相对比较懒散。快速行动的酶移除了过多的多巴胺，导致多巴胺的整体水平很低。大脑的前额皮质也就停止工作了。
On that score alone, having slow-acting enzymes sounds better. There seems to be a trade-off, however, to these slow enzymes, one triggered by stress. In the absence of stress, there is a cognitive advantage. But when under stress, the advantage goes away and in fact reverses itself.
就这方面来说，拥有动作缓慢的酶听起来更好。不过有得也有失，因为这些“慢作用酶”会被压力触发。在没有压力的情况下，这种酶具有一种认知优势。但处在压力之下时，这一优势就会消失甚至逆转。
“Stress floods the prefrontal cortex with dopamine,” says Adele Diamond, professor of developmental cognitive neuroscience at the University of British Columbia. A little booster hit of dopamine is normally a good thing, but the big surge brought on by stress is too much for people with the slow-acting enzyme, which can’t remove the dopamine fast enough. “Much like flooding a car engine with too much gasoline, prefrontal-cortex function melts down,” Diamond says.
“压力会和多巴胺一起冲击前额皮质，”英属哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)发展认知神经科学的教授阿黛尔·黛蒙德(Adele Diamond)指出。一些多巴胺的冲击通常是好的，但是随压力一起而来的大量多巴胺对于那些拥有“慢作用酶”的人来说就太多了，因为这些酶无法快速移除多巴胺。“这很像用过多的汽油冲击机车引擎，前额叶皮层功能就退化了，”黛蒙德说。
Other research has found that those with the slow-acting enzymes have higher I.Q.’ s, on average. One study of Beijing schoolchildren calculated the advantage to be 10 I.Q. points. But it was unclear if the cognitive advantages they had would stay with them when they were under stress outside the security of the lab environment.
有其他研究表明，拥有“慢作用酶”的人的平均智商更高。一个针对北京小学生的研究计算出这个差值约为10个点。但是尚不清楚如果在实验室环境以外的压力之下，他们的认知优势还是否存在。
The Taiwan study was the first to look at the COMT gene in a high-stakes, real-life setting. Would the I.Q. advantage hold up, or would the stress undermine performance?
台湾的研究是首个在高风险的、现实世界的环境下观察COMT基因的研究。智商优势是否会保持，还是压力会破坏表现？
It was the latter. The Taiwanese students with the slow-acting enzymes sank on the national exam. On average, they scored 8 percent lower than those with the fast-acting enzymes. It was as if some of the A students and B students traded places at test time.
结果是后者。拥有“慢作用酶”的台湾学生在国考中失利。他们的分数比那些拥有“快作用酶”的学生的分数平均低8%。就好像平时的一等生和二等生在考试时对调了角色。
“I am not against pressure. Actually, pressure is good [for] someone,” Chang commented. “But those who are more vulnerable to stress will be more disadvantaged.”
“我并不反对压力。实际上，压力对一些人来说是好的，”张俊彦认为，“但是这对那些较易受到压力影响的人更加不利。”
As of 2014, Taiwan will no longer require all students to take the Basic Competency Test, as the country moves to 12-year compulsory education. The system will no longer be built to weed out children, but to keep them all in school. But academically advanced students will still take some kind of entrance exam. And those elite students will still feel the pressure, which, it bears repeating, will hurt some but help others.
到2014年，随着台湾将实行12年的义务教育制度，该地将不再要求所有的学生参加基本学力测试。这项制度将不再淘汰学生，而是把他们都留在学校。但是学业优异的学生仍将参加某种入学考试。那些最拔尖的学生仍会感到压力，需要再次指出的是，这种压力会伤害到一些人，但也会帮助到另一些人。
“The people who perform best in normal conditions may not be the same people who perform best under stress,” Diamond says. People born with the fast-acting enzymes “actually need the stress to perform their best.” To them, the everyday is underwhelming; it doesn’t excite them enough to stimulate the sharpness of mind of which they are capable. They benefit from that surge in dopamine — it raises the level up to optimal. They are like Superman emerging from the phone booth in times of crisis; their abilities to concentrate and solve problems go up.
“平时表现优异的人，在压力环境下不一定同样出色，”黛蒙德说，天生具有“快作用酶”的人“实际上在压力下才能发挥最佳水平”。对于他们来说，日常环境太平庸了，不足以使他们兴奋到能激发大脑的敏锐性。他们得益于激增的多巴胺——它提升到了理想水平。他们就像是在危机中突然从电话亭里出现的超人；他们的专注力和解决问题的能力提升了。
Some scholars have suggested that we are all Warriors or Worriers. Those with fast-acting dopamine clearers are the Warriors, ready for threatening environments where maximum performance is required. Those with slow-acting dopamine clearers are the Worriers, capable of more complex planning. Over the course of evolution, both Warriors and Worriers were necessary for human tribes to survive.
一些学者认为，我们所有人不是“勇士”就是“忧士”。那些拥有快速清除多巴胺的酶的人就是“勇士”，对威胁性的、需要发挥出最优水平的环境做好了准备。而那些拥有缓慢清除多巴胺的酶的人是“忧士”，能够做出更复杂的计划。在进化的过程中，“勇士”和“忧士”对于人类部落的生存都是很有必要的。
In truth, because we all get one COMT gene from our father and one from our mother, about half of all people inherit one of each gene variation, so they have a mix of the enzymes and are somewhere in between the Warriors and the Worriers. About a quarter of people carry Warrior-only genes, and a quarter of people Worrier-only.
事实上，由于我们是从父母那里分别得到一个COMT基因，有大约一半的人遗传到的是两类基因各一个，所以他们拥有的是介于“勇士”和“忧士”之间的酶；有大约四分之一的人只继承了“勇士”的基因，而另外四分之一的人只有“忧士”的基因。
A number of research studies are looking at COMT, including several involving the American military. Researchers at Brown University have been studying COMT’s connection to post-traumatic stress disorder in veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Quinn Kennedy, a research psychologist at the Naval Postgraduate School, is studying how the gene correlates with pilot performance. Douglas C. Johnson, a professor of psychiatry at the University of California, San Diego, is part of a consortium of researchers called the OptiBrain Center, where he is interested in COMT’s role in combat performance and well-being.
有大量的研究是针对COMT基因的，包括一些关于美国军队的研究。布朗大学(Brown University)的研究者一直在研究参加过伊拉克和阿富汗战争的老兵的COMT基因与创伤后应激障碍之间的关系；美国海军研究生院(Naval Postgraduate School)的心理研究学家奎因·肯尼迪(Quinn Kennedy)目前研究的是基因与飞行员表现的相关性；加州大学圣迭哥分校(University of California, San Diego)的精神病学教授道格拉斯·C·约翰逊(Douglas C. Johnson)是OptiBrain中心(OptiBrain Center)研究团队的一员，他关注的是COMT基因对于竞争表现和幸福感的作用。
While the studies are ongoing, the early results show those with Worrier-genes can still handle incredible stress — as long as they are well trained. Even some Navy SEALs have the Worrier genes, so you can literally be a Worrier-gene Warrior. In Kennedy’s sample, almost a third of the expert pilots were Worriers — a larger proportion than in the general population.
虽然研究仍在进行，但初期的结果显示，拥有“忧士”基因的人仍然能处理难以置信的压力——只要他们训练有素。即使是海军海豹突击队的成员里也有“忧士”基因，所以你也可以是拥有“忧士”基因的“勇士”。在肯尼迪的样本中，几乎三分之一的高级飞行员都是“忧士”——比一般人群中的“忧士”比例还要高。
Kennedy’s work is particularly revealing. She puts pilots through a series of six flight-simulator tests, where pilots endure turbulence, oil-pressure problems, iced carburetors and crosswinds while landing. They are kept furiously busy, dialing to new frequencies, flying to new altitudes and headings and punching in transponder codes.
肯尼迪的研究尤其具有启发性。她让飞行员们参与了六项飞行模拟器测试，其中包括遭遇气流、油压问题、汽化器冻结以及着陆时遇到侧风。她让他们一直忙得不可开交，调拨到新的频率、飞到新的纬度、确定飞行方位并录入应答机编码。
Among recreational pilots with the lowest rating level — trained to fly only in daylight — those with Warrior genes performed best. But that changed with more experience. Among recreational pilots who had the next level of qualification — trained to fly at night using cockpit instruments — the Worriers far outperformed the Warriors. Their genetically blessed working memory and attention advantage kicked in. And their experience meant they didn’t melt under the pressure of their genetic curse.
在所有评分最低的休闲类飞行员（只被培训在白天飞行）中，有“勇士”基因的人表现最好。但是经验更丰富的飞行员情况就不同了。在拥有较高一级资格的休闲飞行员（可使用座舱仪表在夜间飞行）中——“忧士”的表现远远优于“勇士”。他们与生俱来的“内存储器”和注意力优势发挥了出来。而且他们的经验意味着他们不会在“遗传诅咒”的压力下影响发挥。
What this suggests, Kennedy says, is that, for Worriers, “through training, they can learn to manage the particular stress in the specific pilot training, even if it is not necessarily transferred over to other parts of their lives.”
肯尼迪表示，这些结果表明，对于“忧士”来说，“通过训练，他们能够学会管理在具体的飞行训练中遇到的特定压力，即使这种能力不会转移到他们生活中的其他方面。”
So while the single-shot stakes of a standardized exam is particularly ill suited for Worrier genotypes, this doesn’t mean that they should be shielded from all challenge. In fact, shielding them could be the worst response, depriving them of the chance to acclimate to recurring stressors. Johnson explains this as a form of stress inoculation: You tax them without overwhelming them. “And then allow for sufficient recovery,” he continued. Training, preparation and repetition defuse the Worrier’s curse.
所以说，虽然一局定输赢的标准化考试尤其不适合“忧士”基因型的人，但这不代表他们应该得到大赫，免于所有挑战。事实上，掩护他们是最糟糕的做法，这剥夺了他们适应反复出现的压力源的机会。约翰逊把这个解释为某种形式的压力免疫(stress inoculation)：向他们施压，但这种压力应不足以压垮他们。“这样他们就能得以充分恢复，”他继续说。训练、准备和重复，能够化解“忧士的诅咒”。
There are many psychological and physiological reasons that long-term stress is harmful, but the science of elite performance has drawn a different conclusion about short-term stress. Studies that compare professionals with amateur competitors — whether concert pianists, male rugby or female volleyball players — show that professionals feel just as much anxiety as amateurs. The difference is in how they interpret their anxiety. The amateurs view it as detrimental, while the professionals tend to view stress as energizing. It gets them to focus.
长期的压力是有害的，关于这点有很多心理学和生理上的原因，但是关于“精英表现”的科学对于短期压力却得出了不同的结论。一些对比专业人士和业余爱好者之间竞争的研究——无论是音乐会钢琴家、男性橄榄球员，还是女性排球运动员——表明专业人士和业余人士的焦虑程度是相同的，差异在于他们诠释焦虑的方式。业余爱好者们认为焦虑是有害的，而专业人士则把压力看成是一种激励，让他们更专注。
A similar mental shift can also help students in test-taking situations. Jeremy Jamieson, assistant professor of social psychology at the University of Rochester, has done a series of experiments that reveal how the labeling of stress affects performance on academic testing.
一种类似的心理转变也能够帮助考试状态下的学生。罗彻斯特大学(University of Rochester)社会心理学助理教授杰瑞米·杰米森(Jeremy Jamieson)通过一系列实验，发现了给压力“贴标签”是如何对学术考试表现施加影响的。
The first experiment was at Harvard University with undergraduates who were studying for the Graduate Record Examination. Before taking a practice test, the students read a short note explaining that the study’s purpose was to examine the effects of stress on cognition. Half of the students, however, were also given a statement declaring that recent research suggests “people who feel anxious during a test might actually do better.” Therefore, if the students felt anxious during the practice test, it said, “you shouldn’t feel concerned. . . simply remind yourself that your arousal could be helping you do well.”
第一个实验是在哈佛大学(Harvard University)进行的，实验对象是正在准备研究生入学考试(GRE)的本科生。在进行模拟测试之前，学生们读了一段关于“本研究目的是检验压力对于认知的影响”的说明。不过，有半数学生还读了另一份声明，声明称近期有研究表明“在考试中感到焦虑的人也许会发挥得更好。”因此，如果学生在模拟测试中感到焦虑，声明中写道，“你不必在意……只需要提醒自己，你的感觉会帮助你发挥出色。”
Just reading this statement significantly improved students’ performance. They scored 50 points higher in the quantitative section (out of a possible 800) than the control group on the practice test. Remarkable as that seemed, it is relatively easy to get a result in a lab. Would it affect their actual G.R.E. results? A couple of months later, the students turned in their real G.R.E. scores. Jamieson calculated that the group taught to see anxiety as beneficial in the lab experiment scored 65 points higher than the controls. In ongoing work, Jamieson is replicating the experiment with remedial math students at a Midwestern community college: after they were told to think of stress as beneficial, their grades improved.
这份声明明显地提升了学生们的表现。在模拟测试的数学部分（满分800分），他们的分数比对照组的学生高出50分。这似乎有些不可思议，在实验室得出这样的结果相对容易，那么它会影响他们实际的GRE成绩吗？几个月之后，学生们交上了他们真实的GRE成绩。经过计算，杰米森发现，那些在实验里读到了“焦虑有益”的学生的成绩比对照组的学生高65分。在正在进行中的一个研究中，杰米森在中西部社区学院(Midwestern community college)数学补习班的学生中重复了这项实验：在被告知压力有益处之后，他们的分数提高了。
At first blush, you might assume that the statement about anxiety being beneficial simply calmed the students, reducing their stress and allowing them to focus. But that was not the case. Jamieson’s team took saliva samples of the students, both the day before the practice test to set a base line, and right after reading the lines about the new science — just moments before they started the first question. Jamieson had the saliva tested for biomarkers that show the level of activation of the body’s sympathetic nervous system — our “fight or flight” response. The experimental group’s stress levels were decidedly higher. The biological stress was real, but it had different physiological manifestations and had somehow been transformed into a positive force that drove performance.
乍一看，你也许会认为关于“焦虑有益”的说法仅仅是让学生冷静下来，减少他们的紧张感，让他们专注。但事实并非如此。杰米森的团队提取了学生们的唾液样本，一次是在模式测试前一天，设定一个基本指标；第二次是在读到说明之后和开始答题之前。杰米森测试了唾液中显示身体交感神经系统激活水平的生物标记——也就是我们的“战或逃”(fight or flight)反应。实验组的压力水平明显更高。“生物胁迫”是真实的，但具有不同的生理表现，而且以某种方式转化成了推动发挥的积极力量。
If you went to an SAT testing site and could run physiological and neurological scans on the teenagers milling outside the door right before the exam, you would observe very different biomarkers from student to student. Those standing with shoulders hunched, or perhaps rubbing their hands, stamping their feet to get warm, might be approaching what Wendy Berry Mendes and colleagues call a “threat state.” According to Mendes, an associate professor of psychology at the University of California, San Francisco, the hallmark of a threat state is vasoconstriction — a tightening of the smooth muscles that line every blood vessel in the body. Blood pressure rises; breathing gets shallow. Oxygenated blood levels drop, and energy supplies are reduced. Meanwhile, a rush of hormones amplifies activity in the brain’s amygdala, making you more aware of risks and fearful of mistakes.
如果你能去SAT（学术能力评估测试）考场，给考前在场外徘徊的学生们做生理和神经扫描，你会发现他们之间有很不同的生物标记。那些猫着腰站着、或摩拳擦掌、跺脚取暖的学生，或许正处在温迪·贝瑞·门德斯(Wendy Berry Mendes)和同事们称作的“威胁状态”中。加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)心理学副教授门德斯认为，“威胁状态”的特点是血管收缩——构成身体里每一根血管的平滑肌会绷紧。血压升高；呼吸变浅。血液含氧水平下降，能量供应减少。同时，大量荷尔蒙释放，增强了大脑杏仁核的活动，使你增加了对风险的意识和对犯错的恐惧。
At that same test center, you might see students shoulders back, chest open, putting weight on their toes. They may be in a “challenge state.” Hormones activate the brain’s reward centers and suppress the fear networks, so the person is excited to start in on the test. In this state, decision making becomes automatic. The blood vessels and lungs dilate. In a different study of stress, Jamieson found that the people told to feel positive about being anxious had their blood flow increase by an average of more than half a liter per minute, with more oxygen and energy coursing throughout the body and brain. Some had up to two liters per minute extra.
在同一个考场，你也许还会看到一些学生肩膀后展、挺起胸膛、把重心放在脚趾上。他们正处在“挑战状态”。荷尔蒙激活了大脑的奖励中心，并抑制了恐惧网络，所以他们对即将开始测试感到兴奋。在这种情况下，决策制定成为了自动的反应。血管和肺部扩张。在另一个关于压力的研究中，杰米森发现那些被告知“要积极看待焦虑”的人们的血流平均每分钟增加了超过半公升，更多的氧气和能量也被运输到了身体和大脑。有些人每分钟还会额外增加最多两公升血流。
Jamieson is frustrated that our culture has such a negative view of stress: “When people say, ‘I’m stressed out,’ it means, ‘I’m not doing well.’ It doesn’t mean, ‘I’m excited — I have increased oxygenated blood going to my brain. ”
我们的文化对待压力的态度很消极，这让杰米森很沮丧：“当人们说，‘我压力很大’时，就意味着‘我做不好’，而不是说‘我很兴奋——有更多的含氧血进入了我的大脑’。”
As the doors to the test center open, the line between challenge and threat is thin. Probably nothing induces a threat state more than feeling you can’t make any mistakes. Threat physiology can be activated with the sense of being judged, or anything that triggers the fear of disappointing others. As a student opens his test booklet, threat can flare when he sees a subject he has recently learned but hasn’t mastered. Or when he sees a problem he has no idea how to solve.
随着考场大门打开，“挑战”和“威胁”之间的界限就变窄了。或许没有什么感觉，比不允许自己犯任何错误更能引发“威胁状态”出现了。受威胁的生理反应会在以下两种感受下被激活——被评判，或是怕他人失望。当一个学生翻开他的考卷，如果看到一道题目是他最近学过但是没有掌握的，或者看到他不会解的题时，受威胁感就会喷薄而出。
Armando Rodriguez graduated last spring from Bright Star Secondary Charter Academy in Los Angeles, but he is waiting until next fall to start college. He is not taking a gap year to figure out what he wants to do with his life. He’s recuperating from knee surgery for a bone condition, spending his days in physical therapy. And what does he miss about being out of school? Competing.
阿曼多·罗德里格斯(Armando Rodriguez)去年春季从洛杉矶的明星中学特许学院(Bright Star Secondary Charter Academy)毕业，但是他要等到明年秋季才去上大学。他并不是要过一个“间隔年”来想清楚自己今后要做什么，而是因为要从一次膝关节手术中恢复，用这段时间做理疗。猜他在离校期间最想念什么？是竞争。
“It’s an adrenaline rush — like no other thing.” He misses being happy when he wins. He even misses losing. “At least it was a feeling you got,” he said. “It made you want to be better, the next time.” Without a competitive goal, he feels a little adrift. He finds himself mentally competing with other physical-therapy patients.
“肾上腺素急速上升——与众不同的感觉。”他想念获胜时的快乐，甚至也想念失败的感觉。“至少这是你的感觉，”他说，“这种感觉让你想要下一次做得更好。”如果没有一个竞争目标，他会觉得没有方向感。他发现自己会和其他理疗患者进行精神上的竞争。
Rodriguez recorded a 3.86 G.P.A. his senior year of high school and was a defender for the school soccer team. The knee injury happened during a stint on the school’s football team: his doctor had warned that it was too risky to play, but “I just had to try,” he said. He used to constantly challenge his friends on quiz grades; it’s how they made schoolwork fun.
罗德里格斯在高中最后一年的平均绩点达到了3.86，他还是学校足球队的后卫。他的膝盖是在校足球队的一次比赛上受伤的：他的医生警告过他踢比赛太冒险了，但他说“我只是想尝试一下。”他以前一直和朋友们比试测验成绩；这是他把家庭作业变得有趣的方式。
But when he took the SAT last year, he experienced a different sensation. “My heart was racing,” he said. “I had butterflies.” Occasionally, he’d look up from his exam to see everyone else working on their own tests: they seemed to be concentrating so hard and answering questions faster than he was. “What if they’re doing way better than me?” immediately led to the thought, “These people are smarter than me. All the good schools are going to want them, and not me.” Within seconds, he arrived at the worst possible outcome: his hopes of a good college would be gone.
但是当他去年参加SAT考试时，他经历了一种不同的感觉。“我的心怦怦地跳，”他说，“紧张得七上八下。”他偶尔会抬头看看其他人答卷的情况：他们看起来全神贯注，而且答得比他快。“如果他们考得比我好怎么办？”下一个想法又会立刻冒出来：“这些人比我聪明。所有好学校都会录取他们，而不是我。”几秒钟之内他就想到了最糟糕的后果：他上好大学的希望将要破灭。
It might seem surprising that the same student can experience competition in such different ways. But this points to what researchers think is the difference between competition that challenges and competition that threatens.
同一个人面对竞争时也会有不同的表现，这听起来似乎令人惊讶。但是研究者们认为这是由于“挑战性竞争”和“威胁性竞争”之间的差异。
Taking a standardized test is a competition in which the only thing anyone cares about is the final score. No one says, “I didn’t do that well, but it was still worth doing, because I learned so much math from all the months of studying.” Nobody has ever come out of an SAT test saying, “Well, I won’t get into the college I wanted, but that’s O.K. because I made a lot of new friends at the Kaplan center.” Standardized tests lack the side benefits of competing that normally buffer children’s anxiety. When you sign your child up for the swim team, he may really want to finish first, but there are many other reasons to be in the pool, even if he finishes last.
参加标准化考试，对任何人来说，唯一在乎的就是最终成绩。没有人会说，“我没考好，但是也很值得一考，因为我从过去几个月的学习中学到很多数学知识。”也没有人会在考完SAT考试时说，“嗯，我去不了我想上的大学了，但是也没关系，因为我在卡普兰中心交了很多新朋友。”标准化考试不会带来竞争其他方面的好处，来缓解孩子们的焦虑。当你为你的孩子报名参加一个游泳比赛，他也许真的想要拿第一，但是游泳本身还有很多其他的好处，即使他只能拿最后一名。
High-stakes academic testing isn’t going away. Nor should competition among students. In fact several scholars have concluded that what students need is more academic competition, but modeled on the kinds children enjoy.
高风险的学业测试不会消失，学生们之间的竞争也不会消失。实际上，有一些学者已经得出结论：学生们需要更多的学业竞争，但是要以孩子们喜欢的模式进行。
David and Christi Bergin, professors of educational and developmental psychology at the University of Missouri, have begun a pilot study of junior high school students participating in math competitions. They have observed that, within a few weeks, students were tackling more complex problems than they would even at the end of a yearlong class. Some were even doing college-level math. That was true even for students who didn’t like math before joining the team and were forced into it by their parents. Knowing they were going up against other teams in front of an audience, the children took ownership over the material. They became excited about discovering ever more advanced concepts, having realized each new fact was another weapon in their intellectual arsenal.
密苏里大学(University of Missouri)教育及发展心理学的教授大卫·伯金(David Bergin)和克里斯蒂·伯金(Christi Bergin)开始了一项关于初中生参加数学竞赛的初步研究。他们发现，在几周之内，学生们解难题的数量比他们原本读了一年课程之后能解的还要多，有些人甚至可以解出大学水平的数学题。连那些在加入这个小组之前不喜欢数学、被父母强迫加入的学生，也得到了同样的效果。得知他们将在观众面前挑战其他小组，孩子们对教材有了主人翁意识。他们对于学到更多高级概念而兴奋，而且也意识到了每一个新概念都是他们知识库里的新武器。
In-class spelling bees. Science fairs. Chess teams. “The performance is highly motivating,” David Bergin says. Even if a child knows her science project won’t win the science fair, she still gets that moment to perform. That moment can be stressful and invigorating and scary, but if the child handles it well, it feels like a victory.
课堂拼写大赛、科技博览会、国际象棋小组。“当众展示是非常激发斗志的，”大卫·伯金说。即使一个孩子知道她的科学项目不能赢得科技博览会的冠军，她也有展示的机会。无论在展示的那一刻是紧张的、振奋的，还是恐惧的，如果这个孩子能够处理好，那一刻就是胜利。
“Children benefit from competition they have prepared for intensely, especially when viewed as an opportunity to gain recognition for their efforts and improve for the next time,” says Rena Subotnik, a psychologist at the American Psychological Association. Subotnik notes that scholastic competitions can raise the social status of academic work as well as that of the contestants. Competitions like these are certainly not without stress, but the pressure comes in predictable ebbs and flows, broken up by moments of fun and excitement.
“孩子们会从他们紧锣密鼓准备的竞争中受益，尤其是当他们把竞争看作是对他们努力的认同、或下次改进的机会时，”美国心理学会(American Psychological Association)的心理学家丽纳·苏波特尼克(Rena Subotnik)表示。苏波特尼克认为，学术方面的竞争能够提升学术研究以及竞争者研究的社会地位。这样的竞争当然有压力，但是这种压力的起伏是可预测的，其中也会有乐趣和刺激。
Maybe the best thing about academic competitions is that they benefit both Warriors and Worriers equally. The Warriors get the thrilling intensity their minds are suited for, where they can shine. The Worriers get the gradual stress inoculation they need, so that one day they can do more than just tolerate stress — they can embrace it. And through the cycle of preparation, performance and recovery, what they learn becomes ingrained.
也许学术竞争最好的方面就是能够让“勇士”和“忧士”都得到好处。“勇士”能够获得恰如其分的刺激，助他们发挥出色；而“忧士”获得了他们需要的渐进压力免疫，以至于有一天他们不仅仅是承受压力——而是欣然接受。在这个准备、表现和恢复的循环中，应对压力的技能也会根植于心。
It may be difficult to believe, as Jamieson advises, that stress can benefit your performance. We can read it, and we can talk about it, but it’s the sort of thing that needs to be practiced, perhaps for years, before it can become a deeply held conviction.
也许很难相信，正如杰米森指出的那样，压力有助于你的发挥。我们可以读它，我们可以谈论它，但是它是一种需要练习的本领，也许几年之后，它就会成为一个根深蒂固的信念。
It turns out that Armando Rodriguez was accepted at five colleges. He rallied that day on the SAT. It wasn’t his best score — he did better the second time around — but it was not as bad as he feared. Rodriguez had never heard of Jeremy Jamieson. He had never read, or ever been told, that intense stress could be harnessed to perform his best. But he understood it and drew strength from it. In the middle of his downward spiral of panic, he realized something: “I’m in a competition. This is a competition. I’ve got to beat them.”
阿曼多·罗德里格斯最后收到了五所大学的录取通知。他在SAT考试当天恢复了状态。不过这也不是他的最好成绩——他第二次考得更好——但也不是像他担心的那么糟糕。罗德里格斯从没有听说过杰瑞米·杰米森。他从没有读过这方面的文章，也没有谁告诉他可以利用强烈的压力让自己发挥到最好。但是他自己领悟到了这一点，并有所收获。在螺旋式下降的恐慌中，他意识到：“我处在一场比赛中。这是一场比赛。我必须要击败他们。”