Kari Katzander cradled a gray mesh pouch in the palm of her hand, examining the pale-green shoots that poked out of the clump of soil inside. She plucked a dead leaf, and dabbed at the soil to see if it was moist, a sign that the irrigation system that fed the pouch was ticking along properly. Then she reinserted the pouch into the stainless-steel grid that climbed the brick wall of the garden behind a Chelsea town house, there to join hundreds of fellow pouches.
卡里·卡灿德(Kari Katzander)把一只灰色网袋托在掌心，仔细察看从一捧泥土中钻出来的淡绿色新芽。她摘去一片枯萎的叶子，又轻轻拍打泥土，看看是否湿润，以确保铺入网袋的灌溉系统在适当地进行滴灌。然后，她把网袋重新塞入不锈钢栅栏里，这个栅栏架在切尔西一栋联排别墅(town house)后花园的砖墙上，那里汇聚了上百只这样的网袋。
Ms. Katzander was giving these pouches — handmade of geotextile fabric and stitched with the same sturdy thread NASA uses — the once-over in her role as a practitioner of one of the cooler trends in urban horticulture. The founder 15 years ago of a landscape company called Mingo Design, she brings her aesthetic to everything from rooftop gardens to brownstone backyards.
卡灿德正在对这些手工缝制的土工纤维布网袋进行例行巡查，它们的缝纫线与NASA使用的材料一样牢固。她在都市园林艺术的前卫潮流中做了一名弄潮儿。15年前，她创立了名为Mingo Design的景观设计公司，从屋顶花园到褐石豪宅的后院，她将自己的审美趣味带到每个地方。
Her specialty is vertical gardens — walls of greenery that grace interiors and exteriors of residential and commercial buildings around the city and beyond.
她的专长是设计垂直花园(vertical gardens)——那些郁郁葱葱的墙壁，为市内外的商务楼和住宅楼，提供了优雅的内外环境。
These leafy expanses, sometimes flecked with flowers, can evoke anything from a tropical jungle to a Monet landscape. But because gardens were intended to be horizontal, not vertical, and because water, left to its own devices, flows down, not sideways, they are challenging to maintain.
这大片的墙体，在万绿丛中偶尔点缀着花朵，能唤醒人们对热带雨林或莫奈(Monet)笔下风景的联想。但是花园本应是水平生长，而非垂直分布的，而且水从其储存设备中流出后，也会向下方而非侧面流动，所以要维护好这些垂直花园，就很有挑战性。
Various devices help these gardens thrive. Ms. Katzander’s magic bullet is the little mesh container she has christened the Mingo Pouch, which in her opinion is critical to a successful vertical garden because it allows each plant to have its own miniature ecosystem.
有各种各样的装置可以让这些花园生机勃勃。卡灿德的法宝就是这种被她称为“明戈袋”(Mingo Pouch)的网筛容器。在她看来，这件宝贝对成功设计一个垂直花园至关重要，因为它让每一株植物都有了自己的微型生态系统。
“Cute, right?” Ms. Katzander said, affectionately eyeing the one in her hand. She made the first Mingo Pouch several years ago, and so far has made thousands of them. They can even go in the washing machine. They solve a problem that can doom vertical gardens — soil falling off the wall and onto the ground. “So the question,” she said, “is how do you plant on a wall? The pouches were the answer. They were the turning point, the aha moment.”
“很可爱，对吗？”卡灿德深情地看着手里的一棵植物说道。几年前，她做出了第一个明戈袋；迄今为止，这样的袋子她已经做了上千个了。它们甚至可以放入洗衣机里清洗。这些袋子，解决了一个有可能将垂直花园彻底摧毁的问题——土壤从墙面掉落到地上。“所以问题在于，”她说，“你怎样在一面墙上栽种植物？而这些袋子就是答案。它们就是转机，是灵光乍现的时刻。”
Ms. Katzander’s route to vertical gardens began three decades ago on Fishers Island, off the eastern end of Long Island, where her father ran a marina, and she grew up dreaming of life as a marine biologist. In her late teens, she was more or less adopted — “like a stray cat,” as she put it — by Dan and Sally Gordon, an island couple who hired her as a caretaker.
卡灿德的垂直花园之路，始于30年前长岛(Long Island)东岸外的渔夫岛(Fishers Island)。她的父亲在那里经营着一个码头，所以她从小就憧憬作为一名海洋生物学家的生活。后来在少年时期，她可以说被人收养了——“就像一只走失的小猫”，她这样比喻。岛上的一对夫妇丹和萨莉·戈登(Dan and Sally Gordon)，请她去照看房屋。
“I did landscaping, fertilizing the lawn, the works,” Ms. Katzander said. “A lot of what I know, I learned from Sally.” Though she describes herself as “100 percent self-taught,” she has taken many courses in landscape design and reads voraciously in the field. By the age of 21, she had set up a business with seven employees.
“我打理周边景观，给草坪施肥，就是这类工作，”卡灿德说，“我的大部分知识都是从萨莉那儿学到的。”尽管她说自己是“百分之百自学成才”，但她还是参加过很多景观设计课程，读了大量这方面的书籍。21岁那年，她带着七名雇员开始创办公司。
In 2009 she designed a 2,260-square-foot vertical garden for the PNC Bank headquarters in Pittsburgh. These days clients ask her to create vertical gardens for their homes or offices, or to provide T.L.C. for gardens that aren’t doing well. Ms. Katzander can produce a small garden in weeks, even days, for a cost of $75 or less per square foot.
2009年，她为匹兹堡的匹兹堡国民银行(PNC Bank)总部设计了一个2260英尺（约合210平方米）的垂直花园。近年来，很多客人都请她为自己的住宅或办公室设计垂直花园，或请她为那些保养得不太好的花园提供一些T.L.C.（即tender loving care，亲切的关爱）。卡灿德只需一个星期甚至几天的时间，就能打造出一个小花园，价格大约为75美元/平方英尺（约合每平方米人民币4942元）。
Although her services include installation and maintenance, her passion is for the design end of the job. “I love complicated things, and I love vertical gardens because of the complicated design,” she said. “The sun moving around, the shade, the different plants, putting it all together. I love the abstractness, the complicated mix of aesthetics and functionality. Creating these gardens is like building with blocks.”
虽然她的服务中也包括安装和维护，但她最热爱的是这项工作的设计部分。“我就喜欢复杂的事物，热爱垂直花园，也是因为它那复杂的设计，”她说。“太阳的移动方位，阴影以及不同的植物类型，都要考虑在内。我喜欢这种抽象性，喜欢审美艺术和实用性能的复杂混合。创造这些花园，就像用砖块建造房屋一样。”
Ms. Katzander is one of a number of landscape designers around the globe who design and plant vertical gardens. They represent an alluring option, especially for New Yorkers who often live surrounded by concrete with limited space for greenery.
卡灿德是全球为数不多的几位设计、建造垂直花园的景观设计师之一。他们代表了一种诱人的可选方案，对常年生活在钢筋水泥之中、绿化空间非常有限的纽约人来说，这尤其诱人。
“A lot of landscape designers are creating these walls, and there are a lot of different approaches out there,” said Karen Daubmann, the associate vice president for exhibitions of the New York Botanical Garden, which has installed vertical gardens in connection with exhibitions. “They’re not easy because there are so many technical issues — irrigation, proper nutrients, choosing the right plant palette. But people like being surrounded by plants, so why not?”
“很多景观设计师都在设计这样的墙壁，他们的方法层出不穷，而且各不相同，”纽约市植物园(New York Botanical Garden)负责展会的助理副总裁卡伦·多布曼(Karen Daubmann)说，他们曾经安装过与展会相关的垂直花园，“这些工作并不简单，因为涉及到很多技术问题——灌溉方法、适当的养分、正确的植物配色选择等等。但人们喜欢被植物环绕，那为什么不做呢？”
Patrick Blanc, a French botanist whose book “The Vertical Garden: From Nature to the City” is considered a classic work on the subject, agrees that when it comes to vertical gardens, the challenges are great and the avenues varied. “In nature,” Mr. Blanc said, “plants grow in many different ways, and when it comes to creating vertical gardens, many things are possible. Different people have different approaches.”
帕特里克·布兰克(Patrick Blanc)是一名法国植物学家，他的书《垂直花园：从自然到城市》(The Vertical Garden: From Nature to the City)被认为是关于这一课题的经典著作。他也认同，在垂直花园的问题上存在着巨大挑战，而实现途径各不相同。“在自然界中，”布兰克说，“植物有各种各样的生长方式，所以在设计垂直花园的时候，很多方法都有可能。不同的人有不同的处理方式。”
When designing a vertical garden for a client, Ms. Katzander first asks, who is your favorite artist? For Summer Rayne Oakes, the model and television host, the answer was Henri Rousseau. His jungly image “The Dream” inspired the lush vertical garden that Ms. Katzander created for Ms. Oakes’s home, a onetime industrial space in Williamsburg.
为客户设计一个垂直花园的时候，卡灿德首先会问，你最喜欢的艺术家是谁？对于模特兼电视节目主持人萨默·雷恩·奥克斯(Summer Rayne Oakes)来说，答案就是亨利·卢梭(Henri Rousseau)。他的丛林画作《梦境》(The Dream)给了卡灿德灵感，她为奥克斯位于威廉斯堡一个旧厂房内的家，设计了一个植被繁茂的垂直花园。
Sustaining a vertical garden is tougher than it may look to a layperson. The initial photographs that people post on Facebook and Pinterest are gorgeous, and owners of these gardens congratulate themselves for making creative use of small and challenging spaces. But come back a few months later, and the magic may have faded.
对外行人而言，垂直花园的维护工作比看起来要难得多。一开始，人们在Facebook和Pinterest网站上发布的照片都是美轮美奂的，花园的主人们为自己创造性地利用了这些狭小且难以驾驭的空间而沾沾自喜。但是几个月后再来看，魔法可能就已经消退了。
“People spend a great deal of money on a vertical garden,” Ms. Katzander said, “and then it may die after a season. The plants may look good at first, but without a proper water distribution method, the correct planting medium and an efficient maintenance system, lo and behold, after a winter in New York, the plant survival rate is low. That’s the dirty little secret of vertical gardens. They’re not as sustainable as everyone says.”
“人们花很多钱来维护垂直花园，”卡灿德说，“但是，一个季度之后，这个花园可能已经好景不再了。那些植物一开始可能看起来不错，但是没有适当的灌溉方法、正确的栽种介质和有效的维护体系，你瞧吧，在纽约度过一冬之后，植物的存活率就非常低了。那是垂直花园的一个不可告人的小秘密。它们并不像人们所说的那样好打理。”
A major challenge has to do with keeping plants moist. Most vertical gardens are watered from the top down, creating a system whereby water doesn’t always reach the plants it is intended for, because, as Ms. Katzander said, “You can’t plant on a waterfall.”
其中一大挑战，就是让植物保持湿润。大多数垂直花园是由上而下灌溉的。在这样设计的系统里，水流并不总是能到达它们应该灌溉的植物那里。因为正如卡灿德所说的，“你不能在瀑布上栽种植物。”
It was Edwin Garcia, her business partner and husband, who pinpointed this issue for her. One solution lay in Ms. Katzander’s pouches, because they catch and absorb water. Another involves using a subirrigation system that provides water to plants on an as-needed basis through the geotextile fabric. With the subirrigation system, there is no need for drainage because there is no excess water.
为她指出这一问题的人，正是她的丈夫兼生意伙伴埃德温·加西亚(Edwin Garcia)。解决方法之一，就是卡灿德的那些网袋，因为它们能够抓取并吸收水分。而另一个解决方法涉及到次级灌溉系统，该系统可以通过土工纤维布，为植物提供所需的水分。有了这个次级灌溉系统，排水系统便不再需要了，因为再也没有多余的水分了。
Ms. Katzander and Mr. Garcia live and work in a Jersey City brownstone along with Ms. Katzander’s son, Conrad, 10. The day of her visit to Chelsea she was up at 5 a.m. to fulfill the terms of the maintenance contract intended to keep the vertical garden as lush as the day it was installed.
卡灿德和加西亚带着卡灿德年满十岁的儿子康拉德(Conrad)，在泽西城(Jersey City)的一栋褐石公寓楼中工作和生活。那天，她凌晨5点起床，前往切尔西市(Chelsea)履行花园维护合同中的条款，让那个垂直花园可以像刚安装好那天一样枝繁叶茂。
Ms. Katzander used six different plants for this particular installation — autumn and Boston ferns, variegated liriope, pachysandra, lysimachia aurea and heuchera. Water flowed through a Netafim drip line directly into the pouches, which were wedged into the openings of the grid.
卡灿德在此次安装的花园中用了六种不同的植物——波士顿秋蕨、杂色麦冬、富贵草、金叶过路黄和矾根。水流从一根耐特菲姆(Netafim)滴管中直接流入网袋里，所有网袋都塞在栅栏格子中。
To start with, Ms. Katzander checked the pouches for moisture levels and bugs — spider mites are a particular bane — and switched a few of them around accordingly. “Let me just put this guy in,” she said, stuffing a plump specimen into an opening. Where a plant has died, she inserts a new one.
首先，卡灿德检查了网袋的湿润程度和虫害情况——红蜘蛛是一大祸患，然后她更换了其中的几株植物。“我来把这个家伙放进去，”说着，她把鼓鼓的一包植物塞进格子里。哪有植物枯萎了，她就在哪里放一株新的植物。
She often teaches her clients how to attend to their vertical gardens, and is “thrilled when they play an active role in their creation.” She is also immensely proud when her creations thrive. “Just look at the babies these fiddleheads have produced,” she said, admiring one robust specimen. “You know that they’re happy.”
她常常教客户怎样打理他们的垂直花园，而且会因为“他们的自主设计而兴奋不已。”看到自己设计的花园充满勃勃生机，她也会格外骄傲。“看看这些蕨菜结的果子吧，”她欣赏着一株生长旺盛的植物说，“你可以感觉到它们的喜悦。”
John Wood, a banker who with his partner, Malcolm Grant, bought and renovated the Chelsea town house, went the vertical-garden route out of necessity. “We had a small yard with limited beds,” Mr. Wood said, “and the walls were so high, we needed something to cover all the wall space.” He is glad he did. “It’s a great visual, especially from the inside of the house. It’s a bit of an oasis, very calming.”
银行家约翰·伍德(John Wood)和他的合伙人马尔柯姆·格兰特(Malcolm Grant)买下切尔西的一栋联排别墅后，进行了重新装修。出于必要，他们也选用了垂直花园。“我们的院子很小，花圃的空间有限，”伍德说，“而且屋墙那么高，我们需要有点东西把所有墙壁覆盖起来。”他很高兴自己做到了。“这是绝佳的风景，尤其从屋内看的时候，有点绿洲的感觉，特别赏心悦目。”