LUKLA, Nepal — Last weekend, a group of Sherpas gathered outside Buddha Lodge in this speck of a town near Mount Everest, stuffing cloth sacks filled with thousands of pounds of garbage into a turboprop plane.
尼泊尔卢卡拉——上个周末，一群夏尔巴人聚集在珠穆朗玛峰附近这个小镇的旅馆“佛陀小舍”外，将装满数千斤垃圾的布袋塞进一架涡轮螺旋桨机。
As the number of trekkers and mountaineers winding through the Everest region has multiplied, so too has the trash — empty bottles of Tuborg beer, food cans, torn tents, empty oxygen bottles. Now, organizers of a national cleanup campaign have set a target of collecting and recycling 200,000 pounds of trash in the area, making it one of Nepal’s most ambitious waste management projects to date.
随着在珠峰地区攀山旅行的长途跋涉者和登山者人数成倍增长，空的Tuborg啤酒瓶、食品罐头盒、损坏的帐篷、空氧气瓶等垃圾也在成倍增长。现在，国家清洁运动的组织者们已经制定了目标，要在该地区收集和回收20万磅（约合90吨）的垃圾，这将是尼泊尔迄今为止最雄心勃勃的垃圾管理项目之一。
“Trash has become a major problem,” said Dalamu Sherpa, the chairwoman of a local women’s group, adding that the project was partly about “saving the glory of the Everest region.”
“垃圾已成了一个大问题，”当地一家妇女组织的主席达拉姆·夏尔巴说，她还说，这个项目的部分目的是“挽救珠峰地区的辉煌”。
Nepal has taken several steps to reduce garbage in the Khumbu region, which includes Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world. In 2014, the country’s tourism ministry declared that anyone climbing the mountain must return from the trip with an extra 18 pounds of garbage.
尼泊尔已经采取了几项减少昆布地区垃圾的措施，昆布地区包括世界最高峰珠穆朗玛峰。2014年，该国旅游部宣布，所有攀登珠峰的人，除了自己的东西外，还必须再带18磅（约8公斤）的垃圾出来。
But rules are loosely enforced in the area, and the authorities have struggled to find a realistic solution to the problem. Every year, thousands of people snake along steep trails to reach South Base Camp, which sits more than 17,000 feet above sea level. The spring climbing season typically lasts from late April to the end of May.
但在这个地区，规定没有得到严格执行，当局一直在努力寻找一个解决问题的切实可行的办法。每年，成千上万的人沿着陡峭的山路迂回前往海拔5000多米的南坡大本营。春天的登山季节通常从4月下旬持续到5月底。
Collecting the trash involves days of walking. Porters and yaks ferry garbage on their backs from a string of villages leading up to base camp, which takes about a week to reach by foot from Lukla.
收集垃圾需要好几天的徒步旅行。搬运工和牦牛从通往大本营的一连串村子里把垃圾收集起来背在身上。从卢卡拉走到大本营大约需要一周的时间。
Umesh Chandra Rai, the chief executive of Yeti Airlines, a local operator, said the plan was to transport 200,000 pounds of garbage to Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital, by the end of the year, where it will be recycled. So far, about 24,000 pounds of garbage has been collected. Along the trails, 16 waste dumping sites, 46 trash cans and three toilets have also been installed.
当地运营商雪人航空公司(Yeti Airlines)首席执行官乌麦什·钱德拉·拉伊(Umesh Chandra Rai)说，计划在今年年底前，把20万磅垃圾运往尼泊尔首都加德满都，在那里进行回收利用。到目前为止，已收集了大约2.4万磅垃圾，还在沿途设置了16个垃圾倾倒区、46个垃圾桶和三个厕所。
“Previously, trash dumping areas were made of plastic sheets, so yaks easily destroyed them,” said Nim Dorjee Sherpa, a municipal official. “We have now installed rubbish bins made of stone and zinc sheets.”
“以前，垃圾倾倒区是用塑料布围起来的，牦牛很容易把它们破坏掉，”市政官员尼姆·多吉·夏尔巴(Nim Dorjee Sherpa)说。“我们现在已经安装了用石头和锌板制做的垃圾箱。”
The challenge of hauling material away is so vast that even the bodies of climbers who died on the mountain are sometimes left in place.
把东西搬运出来的挑战如此巨大，以至于死在山上的登山者的尸体有时也会被留在原地。
“It is very difficult not because of logistical and technical reasons, but because of the law,” said Ang Dorjee Sherpa, the head of the Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee, which maintains the mountain. “We can’t cremate or bury the dead bodies without consent.”
“这非常困难，不仅是因为物流和技术的原因，也有法律的原因，”负责维护山区环境的Sagarmatha污染控制委员会的负责人昂·多吉·夏尔巴(Ang Dorjee Sherpa)说。“未经同意，我们不能将尸体火化或掩埋起来。”
On a recent cloudless Saturday morning as the temperature hovered around freezing, a dozen volunteers assembled at Tenzing-Hillary Airport, a busy tarmac perched on a cliffside, where sacks of trash were piled high.
在最近一个周六的晴朗早晨，气温在零度左右徘徊，十几名志愿者聚集在丹增-希拉里机场(Tenzing-Hillary Airport)、也就是一个峭壁边的繁忙停机坪上，这里堆放着小山一样的垃圾。
As the bags were loaded into the cargo hold of the turboprop, ruddy-faced locals said littering would no longer be tolerated.
面色红润的当地人在把垃圾袋装进涡轮螺旋桨机的货舱时说，他们将不再容忍乱扔垃圾的事情。
“Tourists are not fully abiding by our rules,” said Biruman Rai, the principal of a government school in town. “It is time to enforce the law.”
“游客们并没有完全遵守我们的规定，”镇上一所公立学校的校长比汝曼·拉伊(Biruman Rai)说。“现在是严格执法的时候了。”