Joe Toscano and I worked at Incarnation summer camp in Connecticut a few decades ago. Joe went on to become an extremely loving father of five and a fireman in Watertown, Mass. Joe was a community-building guy — serving his town, organizing events like fishing derbies for bevies of kids, radiating infectious and neighborly joy.
几十年前，乔·托斯卡诺(Joe Toscano)曾和我同在康涅狄格州为化身(Incarnation)夏令营工作。乔后来成了一个极为慈爱的父亲，育有五个孩子，并在马萨诸塞州沃特敦市当上了一名消防员。乔是那种致力于社区建设的人。
Joe collapsed and died while fighting a two-alarm fire last month. When Joe died, the Incarnation community reached out with a fierce urgency to support his family and each other. One of our number served as a eulogist at the funeral. Everybody started posting old photos of Joe on Facebook. Somebody posted a picture of 250 Incarnation alumni at a reunion, with the caption, “My Family.”
上个月，乔在扑灭一场二级火灾期间倒地身亡。乔去世的时候，化身营地的人紧急伸出手来，为他的家人也为彼此提供支持。我们中的一员在葬礼上致了悼词。大家都开始把乔的照片发在Facebook上。有人贴出了化身营地的250名营友重聚的照片，标题为“我的家”。
Some organizations are thick, and some are thin. Some leave a mark on you, and some you pass through with scarcely a memory. I haven’t worked at Incarnation for 30 years, but it remains one of the four or five thick institutions in my life, and in so many other lives.
有些机构厚重，有些机构轻薄。有些会在你身上打下印记，有些则与你擦肩而过，几乎不会给你留下印象。我离开化身已经三十年了，但它一直是我生命中最厚重的四五家机构之一，对其他很多人来说也是如此。
Which raises two questions: What makes an institution thick? If you were setting out consciously to create a thick institution, what features would it include?
这就引出了两个问题：是什么让一家机构如此厚重？如果你有意着手创办一家厚重的机构，它应该具备哪些特征？
A thick institution is not one that people use instrumentally, to get a degree or to earn a salary. A thick institution becomes part of a person’s identity and engages the whole person: head, hands, heart and soul. So thick institutions have a physical location, often cramped, where members meet face to face on a regular basis, like a dinner table or a packed gym or assembly hall.
一家厚重的机构不是人们抱着功利性的目的，用以拿学位或挣工资的那种。一家厚重的机构会成为一个人的身份的一部分，并让人全情投入：从头脑，到双手，再到内心和灵魂。因此厚重的机构得有一个通常不算宽敞的实实在在的地方，供成员们定期碰头，比如一张餐桌旁，一家拥挤的健身房内，或者一个礼堂里。
Such institutions have a set of collective rituals — fasting or reciting or standing in formation. They have shared tasks, which often involve members closely watching one another, the way hockey teammates have to observe everybody else on the ice. In such institutions people occasionally sleep overnight in the same retreat center or facility, so that everybody can see each other’s real self, before makeup and after dinner.
这类机构会有一套集体仪式——禁食或诵读或列队站立。它们会分派需要集体完成的任务，参与者通常要密切关注彼此，就像冰球队的成员必须留意冰面上其他所有人的状况一样。这类机构中的人们有时会在同一个静修中心或设施里过夜，如此一来人人都能看到其他人在上妆前和晚餐后真正的样子。
Such organizations often tell and retell a sacred origin story about themselves. Many experienced a moment when they nearly failed, and they celebrate the heroes who pulled them from the brink. They incorporate music into daily life, because it is hard not to become bonded with someone you have sung and danced with. They have a common ideal — encapsulated, for example, in the Semper Fi motto for the Marines.
这类机构常常一遍又一遍地讲述关于其起源的神奇故事。很多机构都经历过几乎倒掉的时刻，会称颂把它们从覆灭边缘拉回来的英雄。它们会把音乐融入日常生活，因为你很难不跟那些与你一起唱歌跳舞的人变得亲密起来。它们会有共同的理想——其载体可以是海军陆战队的座右铭“永远真诚”之类的。
It’s also important to have an idiosyncratic local culture. Too many colleges, for example, feel like one another. But the ones that really leave a mark on their students (St. John’s, Morehouse, Wheaton, the University of Chicago) have the courage to be distinct. You can love or hate such places. But when you meet a graduate you know it, and when they meet each other, even decades hence, they know they have something important in common.
拥有特殊的内部文化也很重要。举个例子，有太多大学看起来彼此相似。但真正能在学生身上打下烙印的学校（圣约翰[St. John’s]、莫尔豪斯[Morehouse]、威顿[Wheaton]、芝加哥大学[University of Chicago]）有着特立独行的勇气。你可以喜欢或憎恶这样的地方。但当你遇到这些学校的毕业生时，你会分辨出他们来自哪里；当这些学校的校友相遇时，即便毕业已有好几十年，他们也知道彼此身上有某种很重要的共同点。
As I was thinking about my list of traits, Angela Duckworth of the University of Pennsylvania shared with me a similar list, titled, “What causes individuals to adopt the identity of their microculture?” She had a lot of my items but more, such as a shared goal, like winning the Super Bowl or saving the environment; initiation rituals, especially those that are difficult; a sacred guidebook or object passed down from generation to generation; distinct jargon and phrases that are spoken inside the culture but misunderstood outside it; a label, like being a KIPPster for a KIPP school student; and finally uniforms or other emblems, such as flags, rings, bracelets or even secret underwear.
当我思考这份特征清单的时候，宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的安吉拉·杜克沃斯(Angela Duckworth)给出了一份类似的清单，题为《是什么让个人采用其微文化的身份认同》。她提及了我想到的很多条目，但数量更多，譬如赢得超级碗(Super Bowl)冠军、保护环境之类共同的目标；一个加入仪式，尤其是很难的那种；代代相传的神圣指南或物件；圈内人口中那种会被圈外人误解的独特行话或说辞；一个标签，就像KIPP学校学生的标签是“KIPP人”(KIPPster)；最后是制服或其他标志物，如旗帜、戒指、手镯乃至私密的内衣。
Thick institutions have a different moral ecology. People tend to like the version of themselves that is called forth by such places. James Davison Hunter and Ryan Olson of the University of Virginia study thick and thin moral frameworks. They point to the fact that thin organizations look to take advantage of people’s strengths and treat people as resources to be marshaled. Thick organizations think in terms of virtue and vice. They take advantage of people’s desire to do good and arouse their higher longings.
厚重的机构有着不一样的道德生态。人们往往希望自己能成为这些地方所提倡的样子。弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的詹姆斯·戴维森·亨特(James Davison Hunter)和里安·奥尔松(Ryan Olson)对厚重的和轻薄的道德框架做过研究。他们指出，厚重的机构着眼于利用人们的长处，把人们视为有待统筹安排的资源。轻薄的机构则从善和恶的角度来思考问题。它们会利用人们渴望做好事的心理，并唤起人们更强烈的渴望。
In other words, thin institutions tend to see themselves horizontally. People are members for mutual benefit. Thick organizations often see themselves on a vertical axis. People are members so they can collectively serve the same higher good.
换句话说，轻薄的机构往往以水平视角看待自己。其成员因为共同的利益而聚在一起。厚重的机构常常以垂直视角看待自己。其成员会共同为至善而奋斗。
In the former, there’s an ever-present utilitarian calculus — Is this working for me? Am I getting more out than I’m putting in? — that creates a distance between people and the organization. In the latter, there’s an intimacy and identity borne out of common love. Think of a bunch of teachers watching a student shine onstage or a bunch of engineers adoring the same elegant solution.
在轻薄的机构中，永远存在功利主义的算计——这对我有好处吗？我得到的回报会大于投入吗？——人们和机构之间自然会产生距离。在厚重的机构中，有一种源于共同的热爱的亲密感与同一性。想象一下一群教师望着台上的一个光芒四射的学生，或者一群工程师推崇同一个精巧的解决方案的情形吧。
I never got to see Joey T. fight a fire. But I watched him run a bunch of the camp reunion fishing derbies. If you’d asked him, are you doing this for the kids or for yourself, I’m not sure the question would have made sense. In a thick organization selfishness and selflessness marry. It fulfills your purpose to help others have a good day.
我从未亲眼见过乔伊·T救火的场面。但我看过他组织好多场营队重聚钓鱼大赛的样子。如果你问他，你做这个是为了孩子们还是你自己，我不确定他能不能给出一个讲得通的答案。在一个厚重的团队里，自私和无私是交融的。在帮助他人度过美好一天的同时，你也可以实现自己的目标。