Question:
问题：
My parents are in their mid-60s and don't eat well or exercise. They are poorly informed about good nutrition and the benefits of moderate exercise, or even what constitutes moderate exercise. Is there a book that gives accurate, commonsense information without the patronizing tone that I would almost inevitably use? I'm trying to be patient, but it's hard to deal with aging parents who aren't taking care of themselves.
我的父母已经六十多岁了，他们吃得不健康，缺乏锻炼。他们完全不了解良好营养和适度锻炼的好处，甚至不知道什么是适度锻炼。有没有一本书能够提供正确的常识，也没有居高临下的语气？因为我总是免不了用这种口气说话。我想尽量耐心点，但是年迈的父母总是很难应付，他们根本不会照顾自己。
Reader Question
读者问题
Answer:
回答：
Dear Reader,
亲爱的读者：
Your dilemma of wanting to get your parents to change their ways to eat better and exercise reminds me of an old joke: How many psychologists does it take to change a light bulb? Answer: Only one, but the light bulb has to really want to change.
你想让父母改变他们的生活方式，吃得更健康，进行体育锻炼，这种为难的处境让我想到一个老掉牙的笑话：换只灯泡需要几个心理学家？答案是：一个，如果这个灯泡愿意被换的话。
Sounds like your parents may be about as motivated as the light bulb right now. Still, there are things you can do to encourage them to move in a healthier direction. But the first step should not be to hand them a book. Unless you lay some prior groundwork, that gesture may seem almost as patronizing as an impatient tone of voice - and probably as likely to backfire.
听起来，你的父母现在也许像这只灯泡那样缺乏积极性。但是，你还是有办法来鼓励他们选择更健康的生活方式。不过你要做的第一步，并不是送给他们一本书。除非你事先进行了一些铺垫，不然这种做法也许看起来盛气凌人，就像不耐烦的语气那样——结果可能会适得其反。
Instead, start a conversation in a caring, nonjudgmental way. Ask, don't tell. "Say, 'You know, I might not know what I am talking about, but I am really concerned about you," suggested Kevin Leman, a psychologist in Tucson, Ariz., and author of 42 books on changing behavior in families and relationships. Ask simply if there is anything you can do to help.
相反，你要用充满关心、毫无偏见的方式和他们交谈。询问对方，不要说教。在亚利桑那州图森市执业的心理学家凯文·莱曼(Kevin Leman)写了42本关于改变家庭成员行为和人际关系的书，他建议你这样说，“你瞧，我也许不知道自己在说什么，但是我真的很关心你。”简单地问自己能做些什么来帮助他们。
Leading by example is also more effective than lecturing. "The son can role-model health by inviting his parents to dinner and serving healthful items that he is fairly certain they will find acceptable, or ask them if they are interested in going out dancing with him and his wife," suggested Ann Constance, director of the Upper Peninsula Diabetes Outreach Network in Michigan.
以身作则也比说教更有效。密歇根州上半岛糖尿病拓展网络(Upper Peninsula Diabetes Outreach Network)的董事安·康斯坦斯(Ann Constance)建议，“儿子可以作为健康生活的榜样，邀请父母共进晚餐，推荐确信父母会接受的健康项目，或者问他们有没有兴趣与他和妻子一起出去跳舞。”
Pleasure is a better motivator for change than pain or threats. Use the grandchildren as bait. Ask if they want to take the grandchildren to the zoo or a park that would require a good bit of walking around for everyone. Or the grandchildren could ask them to come along on one of those 2K fund-raiser-walks that many schools hold. After all, a day with the grandchildren is always a pleasure in itself. (O.K., usually a pleasure.)
比起痛苦或威胁，快乐能够更好地激励人们做出改变。你可以利用孙子孙女来诱导他们。问他们要不要带孙子孙女去动物园或公园，这样大家都能散会儿步。或者让孩子们邀请他们参加两千米步行筹款活动，许多学校都会举行这种活动。毕竟，与孙辈们共度一天总是件开心的事。（好吧，通常来说很开心。）
Tempted to give them the gift of a health club membership? "Save your money," Dr. Leman said. Try a more indirect (and cheaper) approach. Create a mixed-tape of up-tempo music from their era. ("Songs they listened to from the ages of 12-to-17, which is what we all listen to for the rest of our lives," said Dr. Leman) They will enjoy it any time - maybe even while walking.
你想送给他们健身俱乐部的会员卡作为礼物吗？莱曼博士说，“省下你的钱吧”。你可以尝试更间接（而且更便宜）的方法。选取他们那个时代的快节奏音乐，录制成混音专辑。（莱曼博士说，“这些歌是他们在12岁到17岁时听到的，这就是我们在后半生一直听的歌曲”。）他们会随时欣赏这些歌曲——也许一边散步一边听。
If you really want someone you love to make a change, the key is to ask them to do something small and easy first because that increases the chances they will do something larger later. Psychologists call that "the foot in the door technique," said Adam Davey, associate professor of public health at Temple University in Philadelphia, referring to a classic 1966 experiment called "Compliance Without Pressure." In the study, which has been duplicated by others in many forms, researchers asked people to sign a petition or place a small card in a window in their home or car about keeping California beautiful or supporting safe driving. About two weeks later, the same people were asked to put a huge sign that practically covered their entire front lawn advocating the same cause.
如果你想让你爱的人做出改变，最关键的是请他们先做些容易的小事，因为这会增加他们以后做更大事情的几率。费城坦普尔大学(Temple University)公共卫生副教授亚当·戴维(Adam Davey)表示，心理学家把这称为“登门槛技巧”，他提到了1996年的经典实验“无压力依从”。在这项后来以多种形式重现过的研究中，研究人员要求人们签署一份请愿书，要么把一张小卡片放在他们家的窗户或汽车上，呼吁保持加州的优美环境或支持安全驾驶。大约两周后，研究人员要求这些参与者树立标语相同的告示牌，这个巨大的告示牌实际会完全遮挡住他们的前草坪。
"A surprisingly large number of those who agreed to the small sign agreed to the billboard," because agreeing to the first small task built a bond between asker and askee "that increases the likelihood of complying with a subsequent larger request," Dr. Davey explained.
戴维博士解释说，“在那些答应放置小卡片的参与者中，同意树立广告牌的人数多得惊人” ，因为他们答应了第一个小要求，在请求者和被请求者之间建立了联系，“增加了以后同意更重大要求的可能性”。
Any plan for behavioral change is most likely to succeed if it is very specific, measurable and achievable, according to Ms.Constance.
康斯坦斯表示，任何改变行为的计划都有可能成功，只要这项计划非常具体、可衡量、同时可实现。
And the new behavior should also be integrated into daily life -- and repeated until it becomes a habit. For example, if you want to walk more, start with a 10-minute walk after dinner on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Ms. Constance suggested. The next week, bump it up to 12 minutes.
新的行为应该融入日常生活——不断重复直到这种行为变成习惯。比如说，康斯坦斯建议，如果你想多步行，你可以在每周一、三、五的晚饭后先开始步行10分钟。下一周，你可以把步行时间增加到12分钟。
Don't give up, even if you meet initial resistance -- it is never too late for your parents or you or any of us to change. "Taking up an exercise program into one's 80s and 90s to build strength and flexibility can result in very tangible and enduring benefits in a surprisingly short time," insisted Dr Davey.
即使最初遇到阻力，你也不要放弃——对于父母、你本人或我们所有人来说，改变永远不会太晚。戴维博士坚称，“即使在八九十岁的时候开始锻炼，增加力量和灵活性，也能在极短的时间内带来非常具体和持久的好处。”
As for instructive reading, Dr. Leman is partial to one of his own books, "Have a New You by Friday," and Dr. Davey recommends "Biomarkers: The 10 Keys to Prolonging Vitality," by William Evans. Ms. Constance recommends the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Web site on physical activity and exercise tips for the elderly, as well as the National Institute of Health's site on the DASH diet.
说到有益的读物，莱曼博士特别推崇他自己的一本书《周五打造全新的你》(Have a New You by Friday)，戴维博士推荐威廉·埃文斯(William Evans)的著作《生物标志：延长生命力的十大关键》(Biomarkers: The 10 Keys to Prolonging Vitality)，康斯坦斯推荐美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)官方网站上提供的老年人体力活动和运动诀窍，以及美国国家健康研究所(National Institute of Health)网站制定的DASH饮食计划（Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension，即降血压饮食）。