A field of wheat doesn’t usually stand inside the lobby of a Manhattan office building.
在曼哈顿，一片麦田可不是写字楼大厅里常见的景观。
Yet a 10-foot simulacrum, consisting of a few hundred stalks of wheat puncturing an enormous block of Styrofoam and covered with pebbles, is the first thing visitors see when entering the marketing center at 285 Madison Avenue.
但是在麦迪逊大道(Madison Avenue)185号的营销中心，来访者走进大楼后首先映入眼帘的，就是一片10英尺（约合3米）的仿真麦田，其中的几百来株小麦“扎根于”一块巨大的泡沫塑料上，泡沫塑料表面还覆盖着鹅卵石。
“Wheat denotes fertility, it is the building block for bread, and it also brings scale and interest to the space,” said its creator, Sheldon Werdiger, an architect and the director of marketing and design development for the building’s landlord, RFR Holding.
“小麦象征着富饶，它是制作面包的基础原料，而且给空间带来了层次感和趣味，”仿真麦田的设计者谢尔顿·威迪格(Sheldon Werdiger)说。威迪格是一名建筑设计师，也是此处写字楼的所有者RFR Holding公司的营销及设计开发总监。
The wheat field is part of an effort by RFR, which also owns the Seagram Building and the Lever House, to woo creative companies to its office tower at East 40th Street.
RFR还拥有西格拉姆大厦(Seagram Building)和利华大厦(Lever House)两处房产。其作出包括设计仿真麦田在内的各种努力，目的就是为了招徕创新公司入驻位于东40街的写字楼。
It could be a tall order, since the $350,000 marketing center — which also features an art installation of picnic chairs hung from the ceiling; a large wall decal promoting work-life balance; and a display of white bicycles and scooters leaning artfully against exposed concrete columns — is in the heart of Midtown’s Grand Central office market. That neighborhood has long been the bastion of law firms and banks, more Goldman Sachs than Google.
这可能是件难办的事情。因为这座耗资35万美元（约合人民币217万元）的营销中心，就坐落于中城区中央车站(Grand Central)附近写字楼市场的核心地带。长久以来，该街区一直是律师事务所和银行云集的地方，像高盛(Goldman Sachs)这样的公司比谷歌(Google)这类公司更常见。除了仿真麦田之外，东40街的营销中心内还有其它特色：几张野餐椅悬挂在天花板上，构成了一个艺术装置；墙上的一幅大型贴花，用以宣扬工作、生活间的平衡；几辆白色自行车和踏板车颇具艺术感地斜倚在裸露的混凝土柱上。
The effort by RFR at 285 Madison Avenue is the latest attempt by a Midtown landlord to mimic the environs of Midtown South, and the clearest sign yet that a seismic shift is taking place in the New York City commercial market.
RFR公司在麦迪逊大道285号上所下的功夫，是中城区的业主们为了模仿中城区南(Midtown South)的商业环境而做出的最新尝试，也反映出纽约市的商业地产市场正在经历重大变迁。到目前为止，它是反映这一变迁的最明显信号。
As Wall Street sheds jobs and consolidates its office locations, established centers of business in Midtown have experienced lagging rents and large vacancies. According to CBRE, some 14.7 percent of space will become vacant over the next year in the Grand Central area, compared with 12 percent in Midtown and an exceptionally competitive 9.3 percent in Midtown South.
受到华尔街裁汰员工、合并办公地点的影响，中城区内既有的商业中心出现了租房成交量萎靡，空置率居高不下。根据世邦魏理仕(CBRE)的调查，中央车站区有14.7%左右的空间将在来年变为空置；在中城区，这一比例是12%；而中城区南的数据则极有竞争力，仅为9.3%。
As the city’s economy grows increasingly dependent on the creative sectors, like technology, advertising and media, neighborhoods like Midtown South, once dominated by garment workers and industrial spaces, have been transformed into market leaders, attracting fast-growing start-ups and, increasingly, blue-chip tenants.
随着纽约的城市经济对创新产业的日益依赖，比如科技业、广告业和传媒业，像中城区南这样的街区也发生了变迁。当地原本充斥着制衣工人和工业厂房，如今已然转型成为市场的领导者，不仅吸引着增长迅速的初创企业，也日益受到蓝筹股企业租户的欢迎。
“The psychology of tenants is changing,” said James Emden, a vice chairman in New York for the brokerage firm Colliers International. “Many companies are going to West Chelsea, to Midtown South, even the Financial District — Revlon, for example, recently announced it was leaving 237 Park Avenue for 1 New York Plaza.”
“租户的心理正在发生改变，”房地产经纪公司高力国际(Colliers International)纽约办公室的副主任詹姆斯·埃姆登(James Emden)说，“许多公司正在迁往西切尔西、中城区南、甚至金融区——比如露华浓(Revlon)近日宣布，将从公园大道237号搬到纽约广场1号。”
And Revlon is not alone. MasterCard recently leased a large block of space at 114 Fifth Avenue at East 17th Street, while 51 Astor Place, a speculative office tower in the East Village that was built without an anchor tenant, is now nearly fully leased. Even companies like WeWork, which caters to start-ups by offering shared workspaces and short-term leases, is growing at a fast clip, having expanded to some 650,000 square feet of space in Manhattan in just a few short years.
无独有偶，万事达卡(MasterCard)公司近日在东17街上的第五大道114号，租下一大片空间；而位于东村(East Village)的阿斯特广场(Astor Place)51号这座出于投机目的营建的写字楼，原本并没有目标租户，如今其写字间也几乎已经全部租出。就连为初创企业提供共用工作空间和短租房的WeWork这类公司，也在迅速发展壮大。短短几年内，它在曼哈顿拥有的空间，就扩大到了65万平方英尺（约合6万平方米）。
In the Grand Central submarket, where a rezoning plan was shelved in November, asking rents averaged $61.20 a square foot in 2013, virtually unchanged from $61.12 a square foot in 2012, according to data from the brokerage firm CBRE. Over the same period, in Midtown South’s Flatiron district, office rents have surged more than 18 percent, reaching $67.44 in 2013 compared to just $57 a square foot in 2012.
根据世邦魏理仕的数据，在中央车站区这个子市场（这里的重新分区计划于11月被搁置），2013年的平均租金要价为每平方英尺61.2美元（约合每平方米人民币4224元），较之于2012年的每平方英尺61.12美元（约合每平方米人民币4219元）几乎没有变化。同期，在中城区南的熨斗区(Flatiron)，写字间的租金飙升了超过18%，2013年达到了每平方英尺67.44美元（约合每平方米人民币4655元），而在2012年，这一数额只有每平方英尺57美元（约合每平方米人民币3934元）。
“People spend much more time these days at work, and so it is more important to them that their work environment reflects their lifestyle,” said Mr. Werdiger of RFR. “Tenants used to want to know about the more technical things like ceiling heights, windows, the quality of the bathrooms, but now they care about amenities.”
“现在，人们花在工作上的时间比以前多得多，所以人们更看重工作环境对生活方式的体现。”RFR公司的威迪格说，“租户以前关心的是技术性指标，比如天花板的高度、窗户、卫生间质量；而现在，他们关心的是配套设施。”
To this end, RFR is offering a slate of perks at 285 Madison, which is expected to open to tenants this spring. The 27-story building was formerly the headquarters for the advertising firm Y&R, where an elevator accident killed an employee in 2011. It has been completely renovated and its facade has been cleaned and restored, with a new lobby and mechanical equipment. It will offer amenities more commonly found in a residential condominium, including a bike storage room, a fitness center with lockers and showers for both men and women, and a communal landscaped roof deck.
为此，RFR在麦迪逊285号这处预计将在今年春开盘招租的楼盘内，为租户提供了一系列福利。这座27层的建筑以前是广告公司扬·罗必凯(Y&R)的总部。2011年，一场电梯事故夺走了一名员工的性命。如今，大楼已然经过了彻底修缮，门面也被清理和装修，大厅和机械设备都是新的。大楼内将配备一些更常见于住宅公寓的设施，包括一间单车存放室，一家配备衣物柜和男、女浴室的健身中心，和一片可以俯瞰街区景观的屋顶平台。
A 5,000-square-foot restaurant on the ground floor will cater meals for office employees, and a room behind the restaurant will be exclusively reserved for private dining for the commercial tenants. Building workers will have a separate amenity space with a lounge, a stocked pantry and a recreation area with table tennis and foosball.
在一楼，有一家面积5000平方英尺（约合465平方米）的餐厅，为写字楼内的员工提供伙食，餐厅后面设有一处专供楼内商户预订的雅间。大楼还为建筑工人准备了一处独立的文娱空间，里面设有一间休息室、一间储备丰富的食品储藏室、一个带有乒乓球台和桌上足球台的休闲区。
“In the last few years, we have realized how important office space is, and that it should be treated the same way as residential or hotel,” said Aby Rosen, who along with Michael Fuchs is the co-founder and co-principal at RFR. “We have a brand for our residential and our hotels, but now we are looking to establish a brand for our office space.”
“过去几年里，我们意识到了办公空间的重要性。它应该和住宅或酒店一样，引起人们的同等重视，”阿比·罗森(Aby Rosen)说，他和迈克尔·富克斯(Michael Fuchs)是RFR的联合创始人兼联席董事长。“我们已经在住宅和酒店业务上树立了品牌，我们现在正致力于在办公空间业务上打响品牌。”
But setting aside areas for table tennis and lounges, rather than for office spaces that can be rented out, comes at a price. In a residential building, tenants pay monthly common charges, but in office spaces the costs are included in the rent. At 285 Madison, for example, RFR is asking in the high-$60 range for the base of the building and as much as $85 for the top several floors.
但是，将空间留给乒乓球和休息室而非用作供出租的写字间，是需要付出代价的。在住宅楼里，租户每月支付物业费，而在写字楼里，成本已经计算在租金中了。比如在麦迪逊大道285号，RFR对底层办公空间报出了较高的价位——每平方英尺60美元（约合每平方米人民币4142元）。而接近楼顶的几个楼层的要价，更高达每平方英尺85美元（约合每平方米人民币5867元）。
“The rents are a 15 to 30 percent premium for the market, but we aren’t seeing any pushback because tenants see the value,” said Stephen Eynon, a senior vice president at CBRE, who is marketing 285 Madison.
“租金比市价超出了15%到30%，但是我们没有遇到任何抵触，因为租户们看得到它的价值，”目前负责麦迪逊大道285号营销的世邦魏理仕高级副总裁斯蒂芬·艾农(Stephen Eynon)说。
RFR is also betting that these amenities will draw tenants more quickly. “It may be costlier to create these sales centers or offer these amenities,” Mr. Werdiger said, “but if we are able to lease up faster and for more rent because of it, then it makes all the difference.”
RFR还断定，这些配套设施能更快地吸引租户，“建造这样的销售中心或配套设施，可能会提高成本，”威迪格说，“但如果我们能因此更快地租出空间、提高租金，那就大不一样了。”
That may be so, but it depends on the neighborhood. The money lavished on the sales center at 285 Madison is not found at 90 Fifth Avenue, another vacant office building RFR is hoping to lease. Formerly fully leased by Forbes magazine, the 11-story building at East 14th Street has a far more cursory sales center: It is largely a blank canvas, with two tables for table tennis and little else.
或许他说得没错，但这也取决于街区的具体情况。麦迪逊大道285号针对销售中心的重金投入，在RFR打算租下的又一座空置写字楼——第五大道90号就并无体现。这座位于东14街的11层大楼曾被《福布斯》杂志(Forbes magazine)整体租用。它的销售中心相对而言简陋许多：室内空间基本相当于一张空白画布，除了两张乒乓球桌几乎什么也没有。
The landlord does reach for humor in the sales center’s bathroom, where it has hung a medicine cabinet stocked with various sundries including Band-Aids, tampons and a seemingly untouched supersize box of condoms. A roof deck and lobby artwork are the only building amenities.
业主在卫生间的布置上倒是表现出了幽默感。卫生间里有一个壁挂式药柜，里面放着创可贴、卫生棉条，以及一大盒看起来没人动过的安全套。大楼的配套设施只有屋顶平台和大厅里的艺术品。
“We don’t need to do much in the sales center because the location speaks for itself,” Mr. Werdiger said.
“我们不需要在这个销售中心上花太大功夫，因为它的地段位置就足以说明一切了，”威迪格说。