HUDSON, N.Y. 
纽约州，哈德逊(HUDSON, N.Y.)
WHAT: A brick house with five bedrooms and four and a half bathrooms
房源：一座砖砌住宅，带有五间卧室，四间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $950,000
房价：95万美元（约合人民币621万元）
SIZE: Approximately 3,340 square feet
面积：约3340平方英尺（约合310平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $284
单位面积房价：每平方英尺284美元（每平方米约合人民币20622元）
SETTING: Hudson is a city on the banks of the Hudson River, 120 miles north of New York. A former port with a wealth of 18th- and 19th-century townhouses, it is now home to an ever-growing number of antiques shops, galleries, restaurants and cafes, many started by urban defectors. This three-story brick house is across the street from a park along the river overlooking the spot where Henry Hudson is said to have dropped anchor. Built for a ship’s captain in the mid-1700s, the house is now operated as a bed-and-breakfast. A larger riverfront park a few blocks away hosts celebrations and concerts. Amtrak trains provide transportation to New York as well as points north.
周边环境：哈德逊是哈得逊河畔的一座城市，位于纽约以北120英里（约合193公里）。这里曾经是港口，有大量建于18和19世纪的联排别墅，如今开设了越来越多的古玩店、画廊、餐厅和咖啡馆，许多商铺是由逃离城市的居民设立的。这座三层砖砌住宅与一座滨河公园一街之隔，可以俯瞰传说中亨利•哈德逊(Henry Hudson)抛锚的地方。此住宅于18世纪中叶为一名船长而建，如今用作住宿加早餐酒店。几个街区之外设有一座更大的滨河公园，那里会举办各种庆祝活动和音乐会。从这里可乘坐美铁(Amtrak)火车前往纽约和北方站点。
INDOORS: The gambrel-roofed house was gut-renovated in 2010 after being left derelict. A mix of new and salvaged materials was used throughout, including subway tiles in the bathrooms and stainless-steel appliances in the kitchen, contrasting with reclaimed bricks on several interior walls.
室内装潢：此住宅带有复斜式屋顶，被废弃之后，于2010年重建。整间屋子混用了新建材和回收利用的建材，包括浴室铺设的地铁瓷砖（subway tile，标准尺寸为3x7英寸的长方形白瓷砖，最早出现于1904年建成的纽约地铁——译注）、厨房配备的不锈钢用具，它们与几面内墙的再生砖形成对照。
The first-floor common areas now have an open plan. There are period-appropriate details such as transoms and molding, but no interior walls to divide the space. Because the house is on a corner, it receives plenty of light. The living room’s mantel was taken from an old house in the city, its paint left deliberately chipped. Glass doors in the dining room open to a back patio and a small yard. Kitchen appliances are GE Monogram, while the counter is a speckled blue-gray stone called blue jaguar granite. The white pine cabinets were made locally. A room on the first floor is used as an office for the bed-and-breakfast.
一楼公共区域现在采用开放式格局。室内采用了符合时代风情的细节，比如横梁和装饰线脚，但是没有内墙来划分空间。由于房屋坐落在街角，所以采光充足。客厅的壁炉架取自市内一座老宅，其油漆剥落的状态被刻意保留了下来。餐厅的玻璃门通向一座屋后露台和一座小院。厨房采用的是GE Monogram品牌电器，柜台采用了蓝灰色斑点石材，称为美洲虎蓝色花岗岩。白色松木橱柜为本地制造。一楼有一个房间被用作这家住宿加早餐酒店的办公室。
The first-floor banister, newel post and stair treads were found in the house during renovations. Four bedrooms are on the second floor, while the fifth is on the third floor. The second- and third-floor bedrooms have views of the Catskill Mountains, the Hudson River and the cityscape, as well as the Hudson-Athens Lighthouse.
一楼楼梯扶手、中柱和踏板是翻新时候在屋内找到的。有四间卧室在二楼，第五间在三楼。从二楼和三楼的卧室，可以看到卡茨基尔山(Catskill Mountains)、哈得逊河、城景，以及哈德逊-雅典灯塔(Hudson-Athens Lighthouse)。
Two of the bedrooms on the second floor are part of suites with private bathrooms, while two others are connected by a third bathroom. One of the bedrooms has a Juliet balcony; another has a brick fireplace. The third-floor bedroom, a suite with a sitting area, has a beamed ceiling and large windows that give the space a loft-like aspect.
二楼的卧室当中，有两间带私人浴室呈套间，另外两间由第三间浴室相连。其中一间卧室带有朱丽叶阳台；另一间设有一座砖砌壁炉。三楼的卧室为一间带休息区的套房，设有横梁天花板和大窗户，这样的设计让整个空间给人以阁楼的感觉。
OUTDOOR SPACE: There is a patio in back made from stone and brick found inside the house during renovations. The fieldstone wall here was salvaged from a local farm.
户外空间：屋后有一座露台，露台采用的砖石是翻新时候在屋里找到的。这里的粗石墙是从当地一家农场回收利用的。
TAXES: Approximately $9,900 a year
税：每年约9900美元（约合人民币64696元）
CONTACT: Rick Rector, Peggy Lampman Real Estate, (917) 797-4114; peggylampman.com
联系方式：Rick Rector, Peggy Lampman Real Estate, (917) 797-4114; peggylampman.com
•
TUCSON
亚利桑那州，图森(TUCSON)
WHAT: A Southwestern contemporary with two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
房源：一座西南现代风格的住宅，带有两间卧室和两间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $950,000
房价：95万美元（约合人民币621万元）
SIZE: 3,885 square feet
面积：3885平方英尺（约合361平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $245
单位面积房价：每平方英尺245美元（每平方米约合人民币17789元）
SETTING: This house is in Blenman-Elm, a neighborhood and historic district near from the University of Arizona campus in central Tucson. The area’s architecture is a mix of Spanish colonials, ranches and regional pueblo design. The house is on a wide, quiet street lined with Palo Verde and palm trees just a few blocks from the Arizona Inn, a 1930 hotel with gardens and a courtyard bar. Downtown and pedestrian-friendly Fourth Avenue are about two and a half miles away.
周边环境：此住宅位于布伦曼-厄尔姆(Blenman-Elm)——一个社区和历史街区，靠近图森市中心的亚利桑那大学(University of Arizona)校园。这里的建筑风格多样，包括西班牙殖民风格、农庄式建筑和当地普韦布洛(pueblo，印第安人建筑，整个结构类似一座锯齿形金字塔——译注)式设计。此住宅位于一条宽敞、僻静的街道，街道两边栽种着假紫荆和棕榈树。亚利桑那旅馆(Arizona Inn)就在几个街区以外，它建于1930年，设有花园和庭院酒吧。市中心及适宜步行的第四大道(Fourth Avenue)大约在2.5英里（约合4公里）以外。
INDOORS: The two-story house, designed by Ray Krueger, was built in 1982 and updated within the last few years. The interior is a contemporary riff on Southwestern tradition, with stucco walls, but an open floor plan and clean lines. The ceiling in the great room is 18 feet, with tongue-and-groove paneling. The living area alone measures nearly 650 square feet, with 15-foot Pella windows, facing south. There is a bench seat under the windows; across the room is a fireplace. The kitchen’s design was by St. Charles, with stainless-steel appliances.
室内装潢：这座两层住宅由雷•克鲁格(Ray Krueger)设计，建于1982年，在过去几年内有所翻新。内饰是传统的西南风格，结合即兴设计的现代元素，设有粉饰灰泥墙，但采用开放的平面格局和简洁的线条。大房间的天花板高18英尺（约合5.5米），采用榫槽镶板。单是起居区就有将近650平方英尺（约合60平方米），它开设了15英尺（约合4.6米）的Pella窗，窗户朝南。窗边有一张长椅，房间对面有一座壁炉。厨房由圣查尔斯(St. Charles)设计，配备了不锈钢用具。
One of the bedroom suites is on the main floor, with a ceramic tile bathroom, a glass shower and access to the back patio and a large blue mosaic-tile swimming pool. The master suite is upstairs, as is a loft office overlooking the great room. There is an attached one-car garage.
有一间卧室套房设在一楼，带有一间瓷砖浴室和一个玻璃淋浴间，通往后院和一大片铺有蓝色马赛克瓷砖的游泳池。主卧套房设在楼上，同在楼上的还有一间阁楼办公室，可俯瞰大房间。此房产带有一座附属车库，可停放一辆车。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is a quarter of an acre, with a walled yard and brick walkways, landscaped with citrus trees, cactus and other desert plants.
户外空间：房产占地四分之一英亩（约合0.1公顷），附带一片有围墙的庭院和多条铺设砖石的步道，栽种了柑橘树、仙人掌等沙漠植物，作为绿化造景。
TAXES: $8,018 a year
税：每年8018美元（约合人民币52397元） 
CONTACT: Patty Umphres and Peter Ware, Long Realty, a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate, (520) 272-9144 / (520) 907-1372; homesintucsonarizona.com
联系方式：Patty Umphres and Peter Ware, Long Realty, a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate, (520) 272-9144 / (520) 907-1372; homesintucsonarizona.com
•
HONOLULU
夏威夷州，檀香山(HONOLULU)
WHAT: A townhouse condo with two bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
房源：一座联排共管公寓，带有两间卧室和两间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $998,000
房价：99.8万美元（约合人民币652万元）
SIZE: 1,473 square feet
面积：1473平方英尺（约合136平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $678
单位面积房价：每平方英尺678美元（约合每平方英尺人民币49233元）
SETTING: This free-standing condo is in Kahala, an affluent neighborhood just east of Waikiki and about six and a half miles from downtown. Most of the neighborhood is either beachfront or secluded properties clustered near Diamond Head, a massive volcanic crater that rises along the coast. The formation is part of a 475-acre park, with a trail leading to the lip of the crater, which overlooks the ocean and an old lighthouse. Next to Diamond Head is Kapiolani Regional Park, which borders the city’s zoo and aquarium. Both parks are about two miles away from the house, as is the beach.
周边环境：这座独栋公寓位于卡哈拉(Kahala)——一个富人社区，就在威基基(Waikiki)东边，距离市中心约6.5英里（约合10公里）。社区大部分地段要么滨海，要么就是聚集在钻石头山(Diamond Head)周围的偏僻房产。钻石头山是一个巨大的火山口，它在海边拔地而起，位于一片475英亩（约合192公顷）的公园内。有一条小径通往火山口，从火山口处，可俯瞰大海和一座古老的灯塔。钻石头山旁边是卡皮欧拉尼地区公园(Kapiolani Regional Park)，它毗邻檀香山的动物园和水族馆。两座公园距离此房产均约两英里（约合3公里），海滩亦然。
INDOORS: The tile-roofed contemporary is part of a 44-townhouse development built in 1979. This unit was updated within the last three years. A sleek open-plan space, it has white walls and charcoal-stained bamboo floors, with brushed aluminum ceiling fans and lighting designed by Artemide, FontanaArte and Louis Poulsen. The ceiling in the great room rises to 18 feet, with walls of Pella windows. Sliding glass doors in both the living and dining areas open to a deck. The integrated home-theater system features a 55-inch television. Above the great room is a loft with an office with built-in bookshelves and clerestory windows.
室内装潢：这座瓦顶现代住宅隶属于1979年的一个开发项目，该项目包含44座联排别墅。此单元在过去三年内有所翻新。其内部是一个时尚的开放式空间，采用白墙和染成深灰色的竹地板，搭配拉丝铝金属吊扇和由Artemide、FontanaArte和Louis Poulsen设计的灯具。大房间天花板高18英尺（约合5米），搭配Pella落地窗。起居和用餐区的滑动玻璃门都通向一座露台。集成家庭影院系统配备一台55英寸的电视机。大房间上方为一座阁楼，带有一个办公间，内设嵌入式书架和天窗。
The kitchen has frosted-glass cabinets and Corian countertops that give way to a dining bar made of wenge, a wood also found in paneling around the stainless-steel Bosch double oven. The other appliances, also stainless steel, are by Bosch and Miele.
厨房配备了磨砂玻璃柜和可丽耐(Corian)台面，搭配非洲崖豆木餐饮吧台，这种木材亦可见于博世(Bosch)不锈钢双层烤炉周围的镶板。其他用具也为不锈钢材质，由博世和美诺(Miele)制造。
The house is on a grade; the bedrooms are on a walkout lower level beneath the common areas. Both bedrooms open to a lower deck, and have brushed aluminum fans that match those in the great room. The master bedroom has a basalt tile floor and built-in wenge wood storage. It is open to its bathroom, which has floating wenge vanities and a walk-in glass shower. The other full bathroom also has a basalt tile floor and a wenge vanity, as well as a free-standing limestone tub.
此住宅在一座坡道上；卧室设在公共区域楼下较低的平层。两间卧室都通向一座低层露台，并配备了拉丝铝金属吊扇，与大房间的吊扇相配套。主卧室铺有玄武岩瓷砖地板，设有嵌入式非洲崖豆木储物柜。它通向其配套浴室，浴室内配备非洲崖豆木悬空梳妆台和步入式玻璃淋浴间。另一间全浴室也采用玄武岩瓷砖地板和非洲崖豆木梳妆台，并配备一个独立式石灰石浴缸。
OUTDOOR SPACE: Both decks have retractable shades and face greenery. The owners have access to a shared pool and tennis courts.
户外空间：两座露台都有可伸缩顶棚，面朝绿植。业主可以使用一座共享的游泳池和数个网球场。
TAXES: $2,149 a year, plus $996 a month in condo fees, covering sewer, water and general maintenance
税：每年2149美元（约合人民币14044元），另加每月996美元（约合人民币6509元）的共管公寓费，覆盖地下水道、供水和一般维修
CONTACT: Mary Worrall, List Sotheby’s International Realty, (808) 228-8825; maryworrall.com
联系方式：Mary Worrall, List Sotheby’s International Realty, (808) 228-8825; maryworrall.com