If Margaret Pabst Battin hadn’t had a cold that day, she would have joined her husband, Brooke Hopkins, on his bike ride. Instead Peggy (as just about everyone calls her) went to two lectures at the University of Utah, where she teaches philosophy and writes about end-of-life bioethics. Which is why she wasn’t with Brooke the moment everything changed.
如果玛格丽特·帕布斯特·巴汀(Margaret Pabst Battin)那天没感冒，她本来会跟丈夫布鲁克·霍普金斯(Brooke Hopkins)一起去骑车。不过，佩吉（大家都这么称呼她）没有去，而是去犹他大学(University of Utah)听了两个讲座，她在这所大学教哲学，还从事有关临终生命伦理的写作。这就是改变一切的事情发生的那一刻，她没有在布鲁克身边的原因。
Brooke was cycling down a hill in City Creek Canyon in Salt Lake City when he collided with an oncoming bicycle around a blind curve, catapulting him onto the mountain path. His helmet cracked just above the left temple, meaning Brooke fell directly on his head, and his body followed in a grotesque somersault that broke his neck at the top of the spine. He stopped breathing, turned purple and might have died if a flight-rescue nurse didn’t happen to jog by. The jogger resuscitated and stabilized him, and someone raced to the bottom of the canyon to call 911.
正当布鲁克在盐湖城的城溪峡谷顺着山坡骑车而下，到了一个看不见的弯道口时，他跟一辆来自反方向的自行车迎面撞上，他被撞飞后落到山道上。他的头盔在左太阳穴的位置以上裂开，表明他落下来时头先着地，他的身体翻了个奇形怪状的筋斗，导致他的脊椎在颈部折断。他停止了呼吸，出现紫绀，要不是刚巧有个飞行救援护士正跑步经过的话，他也许会当场死亡。这位护士对他进行了心肺复苏，稳定了他的体征，与此同时，有人跑出大峡谷，打了911电话。
If Peggy had been there and known the extent of Brooke’s injury, she might have urged the rescuers not to revive him. Brooke updated a living will the previous year, specifying that should he suffer a grievous illness or injury leading to a terminal condition or vegetative state, he wanted no procedures done that “would serve only to unnaturally prolong the moment of my death and to unnaturally postpone or prolong the dying process.” But Peggy wasn’t there, and Brooke, who had recently retired as an English professor at the University of Utah, was kept breathing with a hand-pumped air bag during the ambulance ride to University Hospital, three miles away. As soon as he got there, he was attached to a ventilator.
如果佩吉当时在现场并知道丈夫伤势的严重程度的话，她也许会劝阻救援者不进行抢救。一年前布鲁克刚更新了生前预嘱，明确指示如果自己因患重症或受重伤而进入晚期或植物人状态时，不希望对自己采用任何医疗措施，如果这些措施的“效果只是不自然地拖延我死亡时刻的到来，不自然地推迟或拖延死亡过程。”但佩吉当时不在场，而不久前刚从犹他大学退休的英文教授布鲁克被救护车运到了三英里以外的大学医院，在救护车上，他的呼吸一直通过手泵气囊维持着。送到医院后，他马上被连接到呼吸机上。
By the time Peggy arrived and saw her husband ensnared in the life-sustaining machinery he hoped to avoid, decisions about intervention already had been made. It was Nov. 14, 2008, late afternoon. She didn’t know yet that Brooke would end up a quadriplegic, paralyzed from the shoulders down.
等佩吉赶到医院，看到丈夫被套上了他希望能避免的维持生命的机器时，早已有人做出了有关医疗干预的决定。那是2008年11月14日的傍晚。当时她并不知道，布鲁克将会从肩膀以下瘫痪，成为四肢全瘫者。
Suffering, suicide, euthanasia, a dignified death — these were subjects she had thought and written about for years, and now, suddenly, they turned unbearably personal. Alongside her physically ravaged husband, she would watch lofty ideas be trumped by reality — and would discover just how messy, raw and muddled the end of life can be.
煎熬，自杀，安乐死，有尊严的死亡——这些都是她多年思考和撰写的题材，而现在，突然之间，它们变成了难以承受的亲身问题。除了看到丈夫遭受身体摧残，她眼睁睁地看着崇高的理念被现实践踏，也发现，生命的终止竟会如此复杂，如此痛苦和令人糊涂。
In the weeks after the accident, Peggy found herself thinking about the title character in Tolstoy’s “Death of Ivan Ilyich,” who wondered, “What if my whole life has been wrong?” Her whole life had involved writing “wheelbarrows full” of books and articles championing self-determination in dying. And now here was her husband, a plugged-in mannequin in the I.C.U., the very embodiment of a right-to-die case study.
事故发生后的几周中，佩吉注意到自己常想起托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)所著《伊凡·伊里奇之死》(Death of Ivan IIyich)中主角的疑问：“要是我这一辈子全都错了呢？”她这辈子大都花在写书和文章上，写了“整车”的东西宣扬一个题材：死亡的自决权。而眼前是她的丈夫，一个躺在重症护理病房里、像塑料模特似的人，浑身插满了管子，他成了死亡权案例研究的切身体现。
An international leader in bioethics, Peggy explored the right to a good and easeful death by their own hand, if need be, for people who were terminally ill, as well as for those whose lives had become intolerable because of chronic illness, serious injury or extreme old age. She didn’t shy away from contentious words like “euthanasia.” Nor did she run from fringe groups like NuTech, which is devoted to finding more-efficient methods of what it calls self-deliverance, or Soars (Society for Old Age Rational Suicide), which defends the right of the “very elderly” to choose death as a way to pre-empt old-age catastrophes. She also found common purpose with more-mainstream groups, like Compassion and Choices, that push for legislation or ballot initiatives to allow doctors to help “hasten death” in the terminally ill (which is now permitted, with restrictions, in Oregon, Washington, Montana and Vermont). And she testified in trials on behalf of individuals seeking permission to end their lives legally with the help of a doctor or a loved one.
佩吉是全球生命伦理学研究的领军人物，她探索的是罹患绝症以及由于慢性病、重伤或极度衰老而导致生活变得难以忍受的情况下，有必要时，人们自行采取措施以得到善终、安详死去的权利。她不回避像“安乐死”这类有争议的字眼。也不排斥一些边缘团体，比如致力于寻找更有效的方式来实施所谓“自我解脱”的NuTech，或是捍卫“耄耋老人”通过选择死亡来避免遭遇老年灾难的Soars（全名Society for Old Age Rational Suicide）。她也与一些主流团体，比如“同情与选择”(Compassion and Choices)，一起找到了共同目标，那就是推动立法或全民公投，允许医生帮助绝症患者“加快死亡的速度”（现在在俄勒冈、华盛顿、蒙大拿和佛蒙特州，已允许在一定条件下这样做）。她还曾为了一些希望能依法得到医生或所爱之人帮助终结生命的人而出庭作证。
At the heart of her argument was her belief in autonomy. “The competent patient can, and ought to be accorded the right to, determine what is to be done to him or her, even if . . . it means he or she will die,” she wrote in 1994 in “The Least Worst Death,” the third of her seven books about how we die.
她论据的核心是她对自主权的信仰。“有判断力的病人可以也应该拥有一种权力，即他或她有权决定在自己身上将发生的一切，哪怕……这意味着他或她将要死去。”她曾在1994年的《最不糟糕的死亡》(The Least Worst Deah)一书中这样写道，她写过七本应该如何死去的书，这是其中的第三本。
Peggy traces her interest in death to her mother’s difficult one, from liver cancer, when Peggy was 21. Only later, when she started to write fiction in an M.F.A. program at the University of California, Irvine, (which she completed while getting her doctorate in philosophy and raising two young children) did she realize how much that event had shaped her thinking. Her short stories “all looked like bioethics problems,” she says, wrestling with topics like aging, mental competence, medical research, suicide — moral quandaries she would be mining for the rest of her life.
佩吉把对死亡的兴趣追溯到自己21岁那年，她母亲因肝癌痛苦地离世。不过，一直到她在加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)作为艺术硕士课程的一部分，开始写小说时，她才意识到母亲的死对她思想成型起了多大的作用。（后来她完成了那篇小说，同时在大学获得了哲学博士学位，还带大了两个孩子。）她说，她的短篇小说“读起来都像是在探讨生命伦理问题”，讲述的是衰老、心理能力、医学研究、自杀等话题，这些成为她终生不断探索的道德困境。
Fiction allowed her to riff on scenarios more freely than philosophy did, so she sometimes used it in her scholarly writing. In “Ending Life: Ethics and the Way We Die,” published in 2005, she included two short stories: a fictional account of an aged couple planning a tandem suicide to make way for the younger generation, until one of them has a change of heart; and a story based on an actual experience in grad school, when Peggy had to help a scientist kill the dogs in his psych experiment. The point of including the second story, she wrote in the book’s introduction, was to ground her philosophical arguments in something more elemental, “the unsettling, stomach-disturbing, conscience-trying unease” of being involved in any death, whether through action, as happened in that laboratory, or acquiescence.
与哲学相比，小说让她能更加自由地编撰情景，因此有时在学术写作中，她会用小说来讲述问题。在2005年出版的《终结生命：道德与我们死去的方式》(Ending Life: Ethics and the Way We Die)一书中，她收录了两个短篇小说：一篇讲的是一对老夫妻计划先后自杀，好给年轻一代人让路，可是其中一人中途变卦；另一篇小说则是基于她读研究生时的亲身经历，当时佩吉需要帮助一位研究人员杀死其心理实验中用的狗。她在该书前言中表示，之所以要收入第二篇小说，是为了将自己的哲学论点建立在更接近自然的情感之上，那就是涉及任何死亡的令人“心神不宁、恶心欲吐、煎熬良知的不安”，不论涉及的方式是行动，比如在那个实验室中发生的，还是默许。
When Peggy finished her doctorate in 1976, the right-to-die debate was dominated by the media spectacle around Karen Ann Quinlan, a comatose young woman whose parents went to the New Jersey Supreme Court for permission to withdraw her from life support. It helped Peggy clarify her thoughts about death with dignity and shaped her belief in self-determination as a basic human right. “A person should be accorded the right to live his or her life as they see fit (provided, of course, that this does not significantly harm others), and that includes the very end of their life,” she wrote in one of her nearly 40 journal articles on this subject. “That’s just the way I see it.”
当佩吉在1976年完成了博士学位答辩时，有关死亡权的论争正被围绕着卡伦·安·昆兰(Karen Ann Quinlan)的媒体炒作主导着。昆兰是位昏迷不醒的年轻女子，她父母上诉新泽西州高等法院，要求得到把她从维持生命的机器上撤下来的许可。这场争论帮助佩吉澄清了她对有尊严地死去的思考，也塑造了她有关自决权是一种基本人权的信念。为了阐述这个问题，她撰写了近40篇学术论文，她在其中一篇中写道，“个人应享有选择如何生活的权力（当然，前提条件是不伤害他人），这也包括对个人生命终结的自主权，这就是我的观点。”
That’s the way she saw it after Brooke’s accident too, but with a new spiky awareness of what it means to choose death. Scholarly thought experiments were one thing, but this was a man she adored — a man with whom she shared a rich and passionate life for more than 30 years — who was now physically devastated but still free, as she knew he had to be, to make a choice that would cause her anguish.
在布鲁克的事故发生后，她的看法没有改变，但对选择死亡的意义有了新的尖锐认识。学术上的思想实验是一回事，而眼前是她深爱的人，一个与之共同度过了30多年丰富多彩、温情迈迈的生活的人，虽然现在他的身体被摧毁，但思想仍自由，在她的心目中他一定是这样的，他能自由地做出一种选择，一种会令她极度痛苦的选择。
“It is not just about terminally ill people in general in a kind of abstract way now,” she wrote after the accident; “it’s also about my husband, Brooke. I still love him, that’s a simple fact. What if he wanted to die? Can I imagine standing by while his ventilator was switched off ?”
事故发生后她曾这样写道：“现在，不再是抽象地考虑一般的绝症患者的问题了。这关乎我丈夫布鲁克。我仍爱着他，这是个简单的事实。假定他本人想死去会怎么样呢？我能想象袖手旁观地看着他的呼吸机被关掉吗？”
Before the collision, Brooke was known for his gusto. “At parties he was the one who ate the most, drank the most, talked the loudest, danced the longest,” one friend recalls. A striking 6-foot-5, he had a winning smile and a mess of steely gray hair and was often off on some adventure with friends. He went on expeditions to the Himalayas, Argentina, Chile, China, Venezuela and more; closer to home, he often cycled, hiked or backcountry skied in the mountains around Salt Lake City. In addition, Brooke, who had a bachelor’s degree and a doctorate from Harvard, was a popular English professor who taught British and American literature with a special fondness for the poetry of Wordsworth, Shelley, Byron and Keats.
在事故发生前，布鲁克以其活力而闻名。一个朋友回忆说，“在派对上，他是那个吃得最多、喝得最多、嗓门最大、舞跳得最多的人。”他身高惊人，近1.96米，有着迷人的笑容，长着一头直直的灰白头发，常和朋友去冒险。他的足迹遍及喜马拉雅山、阿根廷、智利、中国、委内瑞拉以及更多的国家；在家的附近，他常常骑自行车、远足、或在盐湖城一带的山区野外滑雪。此外，在哈佛(Harvard)获得学士和博士学位的布鲁克还曾是一位深受欢迎的英语教授，教的是英国和美国文学，他对于华兹华斯(Wordsworth)、雪莱(Shelly)、拜伦(Byron)和济慈(Keats)独有情钟。
All that energy went absolutely still at the moment of his collision. When Brooke woke up in the I.C.U., his stepson, Mike, was at the bedside and had to tell Brooke that he might never again walk, turn over or breathe on his own. Brooke remained silent — he was made mute by the ventilation tube down his throat — but he thought of Keats:
所有这些能量在事故发生的那一刻烟消云散。当布鲁克在重症护理病房醒过来时，他的继子迈克(Mike)陪在床边，继子不得不向布鲁克吐露实情：他也许再也不能走路，翻不了身，也无法自主呼吸。布鲁克一言不发——由于呼吸机插在喉管里，他说不出话来——但他想到了济慈的诗句：
The feel of not to feel it, 
不能感觉的感觉，
When there is none to heal it 
无法治愈的感觉，
Nor numbed sense to steel it. 
非麻木所能抑制。
“Those words, ‘the feel of not to feel it,’ suddenly meant something to me in ways that they never had before,” he wrote later on a blog his stepdaughter, Sara, started to keep people apprised of his progress. “My suffering was going to be a drop in the bucket compared to all the human suffering experienced by people throughout human history, but still, it was going to be a suffering nevertheless.”
“‘不能感觉的感觉’这句话突然对我有了以前从未有过的意义，”后来他在继女莎拉(Sara)帮他建的博客上这样写道，这个博客是为了让大家能了解他的恢复情况。“我的磨难，与人类历史长河中人们所经历的种种磨难相比，只是沧海一粟，但毕竟仍是磨难。”
Brooke took some solace in Buddhism, which he began exploring when he was in his 40s. A few weeks after the accident, a local Buddhist teacher, Lama Thupten Dorje Gyaltsen, came to his hospital room. “The body is ephemeral,” Lama Thupten declared, gesturing at his own body under his maroon-and-saffron robe. He urged Brooke to focus on his mind. At the time, it was a comfort to think that his mind, which seemed intact, was all that mattered. It meant he could still be the same man he always was even if he never moved again. But as much as he yearned to believe it, Brooke’s subsequent experiences — spasms, pain, catheterizations, bouts of pneumonia, infected abscesses in his groin — have made him wary of platitudes. He still wants to believe the mind is everything. But he has learned that no mind can fly free of a useless body’s incessant neediness.
布鲁克从佛教中得到了些许慰藉，他年过四旬时开始探索佛教。在出事几周后，当地的一位佛教师傅图登多杰坚赞喇嘛去病房探望他。“躯体稍纵即逝，”图登喇嘛指着自己赫红色袈裟下的身体，这样说道。他鼓励布鲁克要专注于自己的精神。意识到自己的精神才是最重要的东西，而精神似乎完好无损，这在当时是一种安慰。这意味着即使他永远不再能动弹，他仍会一直是过去的他。然而，尽管布鲁克渴望相信这一点，但随后发生的一切——抽筋、疼痛、导管插入手术、数次肺炎发作、腹股沟处感染脓肿——却令他不再轻信各种陈词滥调。他仍想相信精神就是一切。但他已经发现，精神也无法逃脱一具无用之躯源源不断的需求。
One gray morning in February, more than four years after the accident, I met Brooke and Peggy at their home in the Salt Lake City neighborhood known as the Avenues. Brooke rolled into the living room in his motorized wheelchair. It was a month before his 71st birthday, and his handsome face was animated by intense, shiny brown eyes, deep-set under a bristly awning of brow. He was dressed as usual: a pullover, polyester pants that snap open all the way down each leg, a diaper and green Crocs. A friend was reading on a couch nearby, a caregiver was doing her schoolwork in the kitchen and Peggy had retreated upstairs to her office amid towers of papers, books and magazines. She had finally gained some momentum on a project that was slowed by Brooke’s accident: a compendium of philosophical writings about suicide, dating as far back as Aristotle.
2月份一个阴天的早上，距离事故发生已经过去了四年多，我在布鲁克和佩吉的家中见到了他们，他们住在盐湖城一个被称为“大道”的小区。布鲁克坐着电动轮椅来到客厅。再过一个月他就71岁了，他浓密的眉毛下有着深陷的棕色双眼，炯炯有神的眼睛令他英俊的脸孔显得更为生动。他的穿着跟往常一样：一件套头衫，一条化纤裤子(双腿的裤管都能完全拉开)，纸尿裤，还有一双绿色的卡路驰(Crocs)鞋子。一位朋友在旁边的沙发上看书，一位护工在厨房里做功课，佩吉躲进了楼上的办公室里，躲到成堆的论文、图书和杂志中去。因为布鲁克的事故，她的研究项目进度被拖慢了，现在刚刚恢复了原来的工作势头，她在汇编一套有关自杀的哲学文集，从亚里士多德(Aristotle)的时代开始。
Peggy, who is 72, still works full time. This lets her hold on to the university’s excellent health insurance, which covers a large portion of Brooke’s inpatient care and doctor bills, with Medicare paying most of the rest of them. But even with this double coverage, Peggy spends a lot of time arguing with insurance companies that balk at expenditures like his $45,000 wheelchair. And she still pays a huge amount of the cost, including nearly $250,000 a year to Brooke’s caregivers, 12 mostly young and devoted health care workers who come in shifts so there’s always at least one on duty. Peggy says she and Brooke were lucky to have had a healthy retirement fund at the time of the accident, but she doesn’t know how many more years they will be able to sustain this level of high-quality 24-hour care.
72岁的佩吉仍在全职工作，因此她可以继续享有犹他大学提供的绝佳医疗保险，学校的医保承担了布鲁克住院和看病账单的大头，而剩下的大部分则由联邦医疗保险(Medicare)承担。不过，尽管有双重保险，佩吉仍然要花大量时间跟不愿报销高额费用（比如他的4.5万美元的轮椅）的保险公司争辩。而且她也依然要承担一笔不菲的开支，包括付给布鲁克护工的每年将近25万美元的费用，他们请了12位大都是年轻热心的护理人员，他们轮流值班，这样能保持任何时候都至少有一人当班。佩吉说，她庆幸出事时自己和布鲁克已拥有一笔可观的退休基金，但她不知道他们的财力还能维持多久现有的高质量全天候护理。
Scattered around the living room were counter-height stools that Peggy picked up at yard sales. She urges visitors to pull them up to Brooke’s wheelchair, because he’s tall and the stools bring most people to eye level. About two years ago, Brooke used a ventilator only when he slept, but following a series of infections and other setbacks, he was now on the ventilator many of his waking hours, too, along with a diaphragmatic pacer that kept his breathing regular. Earlier that morning his caregiver adjusted the ventilator so he and I could talk, deflating the cuff around his tracheostomy tube to allow air to pass over his larynx. This let him speak the way everyone does, vocalizing as he exhaled. It seemed to tire him, though; his pauses became longer as our conversation went on. But whenever I suggested that we stop for a while so he could rest, Brooke insisted that he wanted to keep talking.
在客厅里随处可见吧台凳，这都是佩吉在附近人家在院子里出售旧货时淘到的。她鼓励客人们将这些凳子搬到布鲁克的轮椅旁坐下，因为他个头很高，坐在吧台登上，大部分人刚好能和布鲁克的视线平齐。2年前，布鲁克只是在睡觉时使用呼吸机，但在经受了一连串感染和其他折腾后，现在他醒着的大部分时候也需要用呼吸机，同时还要用膈肌起搏器来保持稳定的呼吸。这天清早，他的护工特地调了呼吸机，把气管导管周围的橡皮囊带中的气泄出，让空气从他的喉头上经过，这让他可以像正常人那样说话，在呼气时发出声音。不过说话似乎让他疲惫；随着我们谈话的进行，他停顿的时间越来越长。可是，当我每次提议停一会儿让他休息一下时，他总是坚持说，他想继续谈下去。
What he wanted to talk about was how depressed he was. He recognized the feeling, having struggled with bipolar disorder since adolescence. “It takes a long time to get ready for anything,” he said about his life now. “To get up in the morning, which I kind of hate, to have every day be more or less the same as every other day . . . and then to spend so much time going to bed. Day after day, day after day, day after day.”
他想要谈的是自己有多抑郁。他自青春期起就与双极情感性障碍作斗争，所以能意识到这种情绪。他谈起自己现在的生活时说，“做任何事情都要花很长时间准备。从准备早上起床——我有点讨厌起床，到把每天的生活变得差不多都一样，再到花那么长的时间准备上床睡觉。日复一日，日复一日，日复又一日。”
Brooke has good days and bad days. When friends are around playing blues harmonica or reading aloud to him, when his mind is clear and his body is not in pain — that’s a good day. On a good day, he said, he feels even more creative than he was in his able-bodied life, and his relationships with Peggy, his two stepchildren and his many friends are richer and more intimate than before; he has no time or patience for small talk, and neither do they. Every so often he’ll turn to Peggy and announce, “I love my life.”
布鲁克的日子过得时好时糟。如果朋友们在旁边吹着布鲁斯口琴或大声为他读书，如果当时他的头脑清晰，身体没有痛楚——这就是好日子。他说，在好日子里，他甚至感觉比自己身体健全时更富有创造力，而且他与佩吉、与继子继女和众多朋友间的关系，比以前更为丰富和亲密；他没空也没耐心跟人闲聊，别人同样如此。他会时不时转身对佩吉宣布：“我爱我的生活。”
On a good day, Brooke’s voice is strong, which lets him keep up with reading and writing with voice-recognition software. A caregiver arranges a Bluetooth microphone on his head, and he dictates e-mail and races through books by calling out, “Page down,” when he reaches the bottom of a screen. On a good day, he also might get outside for a while.“I like to take long walks, quote unquote, in the park,” he told me. “There’s a graveyard somewhat lugubriously next to us that I like to go through,” pushed in his wheelchair by a caregiver with Peggy alongside. A couple of years ago, he and Peggy bought two plots there; they get a kick out of visiting their burial sites and taking in the view.
在好日子里，布鲁克说话的声音响亮，这让他可以通过声音识别软件来读书和写作。护工在他头上安好蓝牙麦克风，他用口授发电子邮件，或者在屏幕上的书读到页尾时大喊“翻页”来快速阅读。在好日子里，他或许还能出门呆一会儿。“我喜欢去公园散长步，打引号地说，”他这样告诉我。“我们家附近就有块墓地，这有点让人伤感，我喜欢从那儿穿行”，护工会推着他的轮椅，而佩吉也陪在一旁。两年前，他和佩吉在那里买了两个墓穴，他们从走访自己未来的栖息之所、欣赏周围的风景中得到些愉快。
But on bad days these pleasures fade, and everything about his current life seems bleak. These are days when physical problems — latent infections, low oxygen levels, drug interactions or, in a cruel paradox of paralysis, severe pain in his motionless limbs — can lead to exhaustion, depression, confusion and even hallucinations. As Brooke described these darker times, Peggy came down from her office and sat nearby, half-listening. She has bright blue eyes and a pretty, freckled face fringed by blond-white hair. Most days she wears jeans and running shoes and a slightly distracted expression. She takes long hikes almost daily, and once a week tries to squeeze in a Pilates session to help treat her scoliosis. Each body harbors its own form of decay, and this is Peggy’s; the scoliosis is getting worse as she ages.
然而，在坏日子里，这些愉悦消逝不再，他目前生活的方方面面看起来都那么暗淡无望。在这些日子里，他的躯体被各种毛病困扰：潜在的感染、低血氧、药物的相互作用，或者他无法活动的四肢发生剧痛，这对瘫痪患者来说是一个残酷的矛盾，这一切会让他感到疲倦、抑郁、思维混乱甚至出现幻觉。当布鲁克描述起这些阴郁的日子时，佩吉从楼上的办公室走下来，坐在一旁，似听非听。她有着一双明亮的蓝眼睛，以及美丽的、带些雀斑的面容，她的金黄头发夹杂着些白发。大部分日子里她穿牛仔裤、运动鞋，表情略显分心。她几乎天天进行漫长的徒步，尽量每周挤出时间上一次普拉提课，这对她的脊柱侧弯症也许有好处。每个人的躯体都隐藏着它自身的衰变，脊柱侧弯症是佩吉的问题，随着她的渐渐衰老，症状也越来越严重。
She walked over to us, bent crookedly at the waist, and gently kissed Brooke’s forehead. “Depression is not uncommon in winter,” she said in the soft voice she almost always uses with him. “It’s important to think positive thoughts.”
她向我们走过来，腰部有一个“罗锅”，她轻轻吻了布鲁克的额头。“抑郁在冬天很常见，”她说话声音轻柔，对他说话时她总是如此轻言细语：“所以想点积极的东西很重要。”
“Basically I dislike being dependent, that’s all,” he said, looking hard into her eyes. He spit some excess saliva into a cup.
他盯着她的眼睛说，“本质上，我不喜欢依赖别人，就这么回事。”接着，他把过多的唾液吐到杯子里。
“It’s something you never complain about,” she said. “You’re not a big complainer.”
“你一直没跟我抱怨过这个啊，”她说，“你不怎么爱抱怨。”
“One thing I don’t like is people speaking for me, though.”
“但有一点我真不喜欢，那就是别人替我说话。”
Peggy looked a bit stung. “And that includes me?” she asked.
佩吉看起来有点吃惊。“别人也包括我吗？”她问。
“Yes,” he said, still looking into her eyes. “I don’t like that.”
“没错，”他仍然盯着她的眼睛说，“我不喜欢那样。”
She made an effort not to get defensive. “Well, sometimes that has to happen, for me to speak for you,” she began. “But . . . but not always. I try not to.”
她尽量不为自己辩护。她先是说，“不过，有时我必须那样做，替你说话。”马上又说，“但是……但我不总那样做。我尽量不那样做。”
Brooke seemed sorry to have spoken up; it was clear he didn’t want to hurt her. “I’m trying to be as frank as possible,” he said.
布鲁克看来也因为自己口无遮拦而后悔；很明显，他不想伤害她。“我只是想尽量坦诚些，”他说。
“No, it’s good,” she assured him, her protective instincts clicking in. “It helps me for you to say that, to tell me what you would have wanted to say instead.”
“没关系，这很好，”她向他保证，她的保护本能在起作用。“你能这么说对我很有帮助，让我知道你真正想要说的话。”
All Brooke could muster was a raspy, “Yep.”
布鲁克只是用沙哑的声音答了一声，“没错。”
“The most important thing is to not speak for someone else,” Peggy insisted.
“不替别人说话，这一点很重要，”佩吉坚持说。
“Yep,” Brooke repeated. “What I want to do most right now is be quiet and read.” So Peggy and I left him in the living room, where the big-screen monitor was queued up to Chapter 46 of “Moby-Dick.” “Page down,” he called out, forced to keep repeating it like a mantra because his speech was croaky and the software had trouble recognizing the phrase. “Page down. Page down.”
“没错，”布鲁克重复道。“现在我最想做的是安静下来，读读书。”于是，佩吉和我将他留在了客厅里，大屏幕显示器上《白鲸》(Moby-Dick)的第46章在等待着他。“翻页”，他下达指令，他的声音非常沙哑，软件识别这句话有困难，他只好像念咒语般一遍遍地重复着：“翻页。翻页。”
For Brooke, what elevates his life beyond the day-to-day slog of maintaining it — the vast team effort required to keep his inert sack of a body fed and dressed and clean and functioning — is his continuing ability to teach part time through the University of Utah’s adult-education program. During my February visit, I sat in on one of his classes, which he teaches with Michael Rudick, another retired English professor from the university. Some two dozen students, most over 60, crammed into Brooke’s living room for a discussion of “Moby-Dick.” Conversation turned to the mind-body problem. “Melville is making fun here of Descartes, as though you could exist as a mind without a body,” said Howard Horwitz, who teaches in the English department and was helping out that day.
对布鲁克来说，他能继续在犹他大学的成人教育课程担任兼职教师这一点，让他的生活得以超脱维护他躯体的日复一日的繁琐，为他不能动的惰性躯体进食、穿衣、保洁、运转需要一个巨大团队的努力。2月份我去他家拜访时，正巧碰到他和另一位从犹他大学退休的英语教授迈克尔·鲁迪克(Michael Rudick)一起上课。二三十位学生挤在布鲁克的客厅里，讨论《白鲸》这本书，大部分学生都年过花甲。他们的交流转到了身体与心灵问题上。“梅尔维尔(Melville)在这里嘲弄了笛卡尔(Descartes)，似乎你真的能脱离身体，以精神的形式存在，”霍华尔·霍维兹(Howard Horwitz)说，他在英语系担任教师，那天他是来帮忙的。
Brooke seemed exhausted and sat quietly, impassive as Buddha as his ventilator sighed. At one point a student called out to ask what Brooke thought about a particular passage. He responded with an oblique, “I’d much rather hear what you think,” and was silent for the rest of the class. The discussion continued with the two other professors taking charge. There was an almost forced animation, as if the students had tacitly agreed to cover for a man they loved, admired and were worried about.
布鲁克看起来精疲力竭，一声不响地坐在那里，好像一尊佛像，只有他的呼吸机发出呼哧呼哧的声音。有个学生一度提问布鲁克，请教他对书中一段的看法。他躲闪地回答说：“我更想听听你的见解”，在这节课的余下时间里他一直没再说话。讨论在另外两位教授轮流主持下继续进行。大家几乎是在刻意制造一种生动的气氛，就好像学生们心照不宣地一致同意，要保护这位他们既敬又爱，同时也很牵挂的人。
When Peggy arrived late — she was at a meeting on campus — Brooke flashed her one of his dazzling smiles. His eyes stayed on her as she positioned herself near an old baby grand that hugs a corner of the living room, a memento from Brooke’s parents’ house in Baltimore. Above the piano is a huge painting that Peggy got years ago, a serial self-portrait of a dark-haired figure with a mustache — six full-body images of the same man in various stages of disappearing.
佩吉这天在学校开会，回家晚了点，她进屋时，布鲁克给了她一个灿烂的笑脸。他的视线一直停留在她身上，看着她坐在占据客厅一隅的一架旧的小型三角钢琴旁，这是来自布鲁克父母巴尔的摩家的纪念品。钢琴上方是一件巨幅画作，这是几年前佩吉购买的，是一个黑头发、留髭须的男子的自画像，总共六张全身画像展示了同一男子消失的不同阶段。
“He’s never looked this bad,” Peggy whispered to me during the break as students milled around. She went to Brooke and kissed his forehead. “Are you O.K.?” she asked softly.
“他今天看起来比以往都要糟糕，”课间休息时间到了，当学生们在客厅里转来转去时，佩吉小声对我说。她走到布鲁克身边，亲吻他的额头。“你还好吗？”她轻轻问道。
“I’m fine,” he said. “Don’t worry.”
“还好，”他说，“别担心。”
They have this exchange a lot: Peggy leaning in to ask if he’s O.K., Brooke telling her not to worry, Peggy worrying anyway. Quietly, so the students wouldn’t hear, she asked the respiratory therapist on duty, Jaycee Carter, when Brooke last had his CoughAssist therapy, a method that forces out mucus that can clog his lungs. “Three hours ago,” Jaycee said. But Brooke said he didn’t want it while the class was there: it’s noisy, and it brings up a lot of unsightly phlegm. As students started to head back to their seats, Peggy lit on a more discreet alternative: a spritz of albuterol, used in asthma inhalers to relax the airways, into his trach tube. Jaycee stood by awaiting instructions, Brooke kept shaking his head — no albuterol, not now, no — and Peggy kept insisting. At last, annoyance prickling his expressive eyebrows, he gave in, and Jaycee did as she was told. But the albuterol didn’t help.
他俩常常这样对话：佩吉凑上前去问他感觉如何，布鲁克让她不要担心，而佩吉还是会担心。她找到了正在当值的呼吸治疗师杰茜·卡特(Jaycee Carter)，把声音压得低低的，免得让学生们听到，她问，布鲁克上次接受助咳治疗是什么时候，这种治疗的目的是强迫粘痰排出，避免堵住他的肺部。“三小时前，”杰茜回答说。但布鲁克说，他不希望在学生们在场时做这件事：治疗的声音很大，而且会排出大量不甚雅观的浓痰。学生们开始回到座位上，佩吉提出了一个更为隐蔽的疗法：往他的气管插管里喷一点舒喘宁，哮喘患者靠吸入舒喘宁来放松呼吸道。杰茜站在一旁，等候进一步的指示，布鲁克不停地摇头——不要喷舒喘宁，现在不要，不要——而佩吉不断坚持。最终，他眉头深锁，表示让步，杰茜按佩吉的指示去做了。但舒喘宁没起作用。
Peggy retreated to the piano as the class resumed, her eyes brimming. “This is bad,” she murmured. “This is really bad.” Underlying her anxiety was a frightening possibility: that Brooke’s inability to teach that day was the start of a progressive decline. Up until then, his occasional mental fogginess was always explained by something transient, like an infection. But if he were to lose his intellectual functioning, he would be robbed of all the things that still give his life meaning: teaching, writing and interacting with the people he loves. If that day ever came, it would provoke a grim reckoning, forcing Brooke to rethink — provided he was still capable of thinking — whether this is a life worth holding onto.
课程继续进行，佩吉退回到钢琴边上，她眼泪汪汪的。“情况很不好，”她喃喃自语道，“真的很不好。”在她焦虑的背面是一种令人胆寒的可能性：布鲁克那天没法正常教书，那或许是他的状态将加速恶化的开端。此前，他也会偶尔犯糊涂，但总能找到导致问题的临时原因，比如出现了感染。但一旦他失去智力功能，他将失去赋予其生命意义的所有一切，包括教学、写作，以及与他所爱的人交流。如果这一天终将来到，随之而来的是一个严峻的思考，布鲁克会被迫重新考虑——假如那时他仍具备思考能力的话——他是否仍希望继续过这样的生活。
After class, Jaycee wheeled Brooke to the dining area so he could sit with Peggy and me as we ate dinner. Brooke doesn’t eat anymore. Last August he had a feeding tube inserted as a way to avoid the dangerous infections and inflammations that were constantly sending him to the hospital. If he doesn’t chew, drink or swallow, there’s less chance that food or fluid will end up in his lungs and cause aspiration pneumonia.
下课后，杰茜将布鲁克推到餐桌旁，这样他能在我和佩吉吃晚饭时，和我们一起坐坐。布鲁克已经不再自己吃东西了。去年8月，为了避免出现令他反复住院的严重感染和炎症，给他插上了个喂食管。如果他不再咀嚼、喝水或吞咽，食物或流质进入肺部，引发吸入性肺炎的机会也就大为减少。
In his prior life, Brooke couldn’t have imagined tolerating a feeding tube; he loved eating too much. In fact, when he updated his living will in 2007, he specifically noted his wish to avoid “administration of sustenance and hydration.” But the document had a caveat found in most advance directives, one that has proved critical in negotiating his care since the accident: “I reserve the right to give current medical directions to physicians and other providers of medical services so long as I am able,” even if they conflict with the living will.
在布鲁克受伤前，他根本无法想象自己能容忍喂食管；他太爱吃了。事实上，他在2007年更新自己的生前预嘱时，特别强调过要避免“采用维持营养或液体的措施”。但这份文件中有一个在大多数事前指示中都可见的附加条款，他出事后，在讨论对他的护理时，这个条款起了关键作用：“在我尚有能力的情况下，我保留给医生和其他医疗服务人员予当时医疗指示的权力，”哪怕这种指示与生前预嘱中的相悖。
Thus a man who had always taken great joy in preparing, sharing and savoring food decided to give up his final sensory pleasure in order to go on living. He swears he doesn’t miss it. He had already been limited to soft, easy-to-swallow foods with no seeds or crunchiness — runny eggs, yogurt, mashed avocado. And as much as he loved the social aspects of eating, the long conversations over the last of the wine, he managed, with some gentle prodding from Peggy, to think of the feeding tube as a kind of liberation. After all, as she explained on the family blog, Brooke could still do “almost all the important things that are part of the enjoyment of food” — he could still smell its aroma, admire its presentation, join in on the mealtime chatter, even sample a morsel the way a wine taster might, chewing it and then discreetly spitting it out. Maybe, she wrote, “being liberated from the crass bodily necessity of eating brings you a step closer to some sort of nirvana.”
于是，这个曾经总能从烹饪、分享和品味美食中得到极大乐趣的男人，而今为了继续生存，只能决定放弃自己最后一种感官享乐。他言之凿凿地说自己并不怀念这种享乐。插喂食管前。他已经只能吃绵软、易吞咽的食物，比如溏心蛋、酸奶和牛油果泥，不能吃任何带籽和松脆的东西。虽然他曾如此地热爱吃饭的社交成分，比如酒过三巡时推心置腹的长谈，但他也居然能把喂食管看作是一种解放，而这部分地是佩吉温柔怂恿的结果。毕竟正如她在家庭博客上所解释的那样，布鲁克仍然能做“几乎所有与享受食物有关的重要事情”：他仍然能闻到食物的芳香，欣赏食物呈现在餐桌上的样子，也能参加吃饭时的闲聊，甚至可以像试酒师那样来品尝一下，吃一小口菜，细细咀嚼，然后不显眼地吐出来。她在博客中写道，也许“从进食这种粗俗的身体需求中解放出来，会让你进一步接近某种涅槃”。
Or as Brooke put it to me in his unvarnished way: “You can get used to anything.”
或者，用布鲁克坦率的语言来说：“你能适应任何东西。”
Brooke kept nodding off as he sat watching us eat — the class had really drained him — but Peggy kept him up until 9 o’clock, when his hourlong bedtime ritual begins. After Jaycee brought him to his room, she and the night-shift caregiver hoisted him from his wheelchair and into the bed using an elaborate system of ceiling tracks, slings and motorized lifts; changed him into a hospital gown; washed his face and brushed his teeth; emptied his bladder with a catheter; strapped on booties and finger splints to position his extremities; hooked him up to the ventilator; and set up four cans of Replete Fiber to slowly drip into his feeding tube as he slept. The ritual ended with what Brooke and Peggy think of as the most important part of the day, when Brooke finally is settled into bed and Peggy takes off her shoes and climbs in, too, keeping him company until he gets sleepy. (Peggy sleeps in a new bedroom she had built upstairs.) There they lie, side by side in his double-wide hospital bed, their heads close on the pillow, talking in the low, private rumbles of any intimate marriage.
坐在一旁看着我们吃饭时，布鲁克几度打盹。白天上的课确实让他精疲力竭了，但佩吉一直让他坚持到晚上9点，才开始他长达一小时的睡前准备程序。杰茜先把他推进卧室，然后她和夜班护工将他从轮椅上吊到床上，他们用的是一套精心制作的装置，包括天花板上的轨道、吊索和电动升降机；再给他换上病号服；洗脸刷牙；用导尿管清空膀胱；用袜套和手指夹板安置好他的四肢；插上呼吸机，准备好四罐营养配方粉，好在他睡觉时慢慢注入他的喂食管中。这套程序的最后一个步骤，是布鲁克和佩吉心目里一天之中最重要的部分，等到布鲁克终于在床上躺好后，佩吉脱下鞋子，也爬到床上去，直到他昏昏欲睡时才离去。（佩吉现在睡在楼上新修的卧室里。）就这样，他们在他加宽的病床上，并排躺着，头靠头地细语，跟所有的亲密夫妻一样。
Throughout the first half of last year, Brooke had severe pain in his back and legs, and all the remedies he tried — acupuncture, cortisone shots, pressure-point therapy, nerve-impulse scrambling — were useless. At one point last summer, he decided he couldn’t go on living that way. “Pain eats away at your soul,” he wrote on July 28, 2012, using his voice-recognition software to dictate what he called a “Final Letter” to his loved ones, explaining why he now wanted to die:
去年的整个上半年，布鲁克的后背和双腿出现剧痛，他试了各种疗法——针灸、注射激素、压点治疗、神经脉冲干扰，都没有效果。去年夏季的一天，他下定决心不再这样继续活下去。“疼痛侵食着你的灵魂”，2012年7月28日他这样写道，他通过语音识别软件口述了自己的“决笔”，在信中他向自己所爱的人们解释了自己现在为何想死：
For many years since the accident I have been motivated by a deep will to live and to contribute to the benefit of others in my small way. I think I have done that. And I am proud of it. But as I have told Peggy over the past few months, I knew that I would reach a limit to what I could do. And I have arrived at the limit over the past couple of weeks.
“在出事后的这么多年里，我一直被一种深深的求生意志所驱动，希望能以我微弱有限的方式，做出有益他人的事情。我认为我做到了这一点，对此我深感自豪。但正如过去几个月我对佩吉所说的那样，我知道我终归会达到我能力的极限。而在过去这几周里，我已经达到了这个极限。”
He had thoughts like this before, but this time it felt different to Peggy, who proofread and typed the letter; the longing for death felt like something carefully considered, something serious and sincere. This was an autonomous, fully alert person making a decision about his own final days — the very situation she had spent her career defending. She reasoned that Brooke had the right, as a mentally competent patient, to reject medical interventions that could further prolong his life, even though he did not live in a state where assisted suicide was explicitly legal. And if he wanted to reject those interventions now, after four years of consenting to every treatment, Peggy was ready to help. She shifted from being Brooke’s devoted lifeline to being the midwife to his death.
他以前也曾有过这个念头，但佩吉觉得这一次跟以往都不一样，她亲自校对并打印了这封信；他对死亡的渴望看来经过了深思熟虑，表现得严肃而诚恳。这是一个拥有自主权、完全清醒的个体在为自己临终的日子做出决定——而这正是她终其职业生涯所捍卫的情况。她认为布鲁克作为一个智力健全的病人，有权力拒绝任何延长生命的医疗干预手段，尽管他所居住的州不承认协助自杀的明确合法性。佩吉认为，四年来他接受了各种治疗方案，而现在如果他想拒绝医疗干预的话，她愿意协助他。她从布鲁克忠实的生命线，转而成为他死亡的助产士。
She knew from a hospice nurse that one way to ease a patient’s dying included morphine for “air hunger,” Haldol for “delusions and end-of-life agitation” and Tylenol suppositories for “end-of-life fever, 99 to 101 degrees.” Another nurse mentioned morphine, Haldol and the sedative Ativan; a third talked about Duragesic patches to deliver fentanyl, a potent opium alternative used for pain. Peggy also tried to find out whether cardiologists would ever be willing to order deactivation of a pacemaker at a very ill patient’s request (probably, she was told). She kept pages of scribbled notes in a blue folder marked “Death and Dying.” She had also taken careful notes when Brooke started to talk about his funeral. He told her what music he wanted, including a few gospel songs by Marion Williams, and which readings from Wordsworth’s “Lucy Poems” and Whitman’s “Leaves of Grass.” On his gravestone, he might like a line from Henry Adams: “A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops.” These were good conversations, but they left him, he told Peggy, “completely emotionally torn up.”
她从一位临终关怀护士那里学到让病人无痛苦死亡的一种方法，包括用吗啡缓解“呼吸困难”，用氟哌啶醇减缓“幻觉和临终躁动”，用泰诺林栓剂减缓“临终华氏99度到101度（合摄氏37.2到38.3度）的低热”。另一位护士提到用吗啡、氟哌啶醇和劳拉西泮镇定剂；还有一位则提到用芬太尼贴剂来释放芬太尼，这是一种强效鸦片类药物，可用于镇痛。佩吉还想要知道，是否有心脏病医生在听到重症病人的请求后，愿意下医嘱停止其心脏起搏器工作（她得知，有这种可能）。她在一个标着“死亡与死去”的蓝色文件夹里，保存了很多页的手写笔记。布鲁克开始谈自己的葬礼时，她也认真地做了笔录。他告诉她想在葬礼上播放的歌曲，其中包括几首马利昂·威利姆斯的福音歌，以及他希望在葬礼上让人朗读的来自华滋华斯的《露西组诗》(Lucy Poems)和惠特曼的“草叶集”(Leaves of Grass)中的部分诗句。他提到在自己的墓碑上，也许想用亨利·亚当斯(Henry Adams)的一句话：“教师的影响是永恒；他永远无法预料自己影响的所到之处。”虽然这些对话进行得很顺利，但他告诉佩吉，对话让他“心都碎了”。
Then in early August, fluid started accumulating in Brooke’s chest cavity, a condition known as pleural effusion, and he had trouble breathing, even on the ventilator. He was uncomfortable and becoming delirious. Other people, including a few of Brooke’s caregivers, might have seen this as a kind of divine intervention — a rapid deterioration just when Brooke was longing for death anyway, easing him into a final release. But that’s not how Peggy saw it. This was not the death Brooke wanted, confused and in pain, she explained to me later; he had always spoken of a “generous death” for which he was alert, calm, present and surrounded by people he loved. So she consulted with a physician at the hospital about whether Brooke would improve if doctors there extracted the fluid that was causing the respiratory distress. In the end, she decided to ignore the “Final Letter.” She went upstairs, got dressed and, along with the caregiver on duty, put Brooke into the wheelchair-accessible van in the driveway and drove him to the emergency room.
接着，到了8月初，布鲁克的胸腔开始积水，这是被称为胸膜积液的症状，即便使用呼吸机，他依然感觉呼吸困难。他很不舒服，出现了神志昏迷。别的人，包括他的一些护工，也许会把这些症状看成是得助于某种神力：正当布鲁克但求一死时，他的病况急转直下，令他可以速速解脱。但佩吉不这样看。后来她对我解释说，在困惑与痛苦中死去，这不是布鲁克想要的死法；他一直在谈论着“高贵死去”，能够在思维敏锐、镇定、知情，并且被所爱的人环绕的情况下离世。所以她咨询了医院的一位医生，想了解如果医生抽走引发呼吸窘迫的积水，他的病情是否能有改善。最后，她决定无视布鲁克的“绝笔”。爬上楼，换上出门的服装，和当班的护工一起将布鲁克搬进停在自家车道上的那辆可放轮椅的厢型车上，把他送到了急诊室。
This put Brooke back in the hospital with heavy-duty antibiotics treating yet another lung problem. During his three-week stay he recovered enough to make his own medical decisions again — which is when he consented to the insertion of the feeding tube. He also met with a palliative-care expert, who suggested trying one more pain treatment: low-dose methadone around the clock, five milligrams at exactly 9 a.m. and exactly 9 p.m., every day. With the methadone, Brooke’s pain was at last manageable. Now when he reflects on that hospitalization, he thinks of it as having a “happy ending.” In the “Death and Dying” folder is one last penciled note from Peggy dated Aug. 18, 2012: “10:37 a.m. Brooke says he wants to ‘soldier on’ despite difficulties.”
这使布鲁克再次住院，并用了大剂量的的抗生素来治疗又一次的肺部感染。他住了三周医院，其间他恢复了足以再次自行做出医疗决定的能力。就是在那时，他同意了喂食管的插入。他还见了一位姑息治疗专家，对方建议他尝试一种另外的镇痛方法：定时使用低剂量美沙酮，每天早上9点整和晚上9点整各用5毫克。使用美沙酮后，他的疼痛至少得到了控制。如今当他回忆起那次住院治疗时，他认为有个“大团圆的结局”。在“死亡与死去”文件夹里，最后一条铅笔纪录是佩吉在2012年8月18日写下的：早上10点37分，布鲁克说，虽然面前有诸多困难，但他想“坚持下去”。
A couple of days after Brooke and Peggy talked about his not wanting anyone to speak for him, the subject came up again. Peggy raised it as we all sat in the living room. At first she did all the talking, unwittingly acting out the very problem under discussion. So I interrupted with a direct question to Brooke. Why, I asked, do you think Peggy sometimes does the talking for you?
就在布鲁克和佩吉说了他不想让任何人替他说话几天后，这个话题被再次提起。当我们都坐在客厅时，佩吉旧事重提。开始时只有她一个在说话，并没意识到自己把那个正在讨论的问题付诸行动。于是我打断了她，向布鲁克提出了一个直截了当的问题。我问他，为什么你觉得佩吉有时候在替你说话？
“I think it’s because she’s concerned about me and wants the best for me,” he said. He made the gesture I’d watched him make before, lifting the tops of his shoulders, over which he still has motor control, in a resigned-looking little shrug. In light of such pervasive dependency, that shrug seemed to say, how can a loving, well-meaning wife help but sometimes overstep in her eagerness to anticipate her husband’s needs?
“我觉得因为她关心我，一心一意替我着想，”他一边说，一边做了一个我以前也曾见他做过的姿势，抬起双肩顶部（这是他仍然能自主活动的部位），看起来就像是听天由命似的微微耸肩。考虑到他在各方面对佩吉的依赖，这个耸肩好像是在说，这么爱你、为你好的妻子，不可避免地在预料丈夫的各种需求时，偶尔越俎代庖，又能怎样呢？
I asked Brooke if Peggy ever misunderstood what he meant to say.
我问布鲁克，佩吉是否曾误解过他想说的东西。
“I don’t know, ask her,” he said. But Peggy saw the irony there and urged Brooke to speak up for himself.
“我不知道，你问她吧，”他说。但佩吉听出了讥讽的味道，要求布鲁克说出自己的心里话。
“Occasionally, yes,” he said, though he couldn’t think of any specific instances.
“有时候，是这样的，”他说。不过他并没给出任何具体的例子。
When she makes a mistake, I asked, do you ever correct her?
我问，假如她理解有误，你是否曾纠正过她呢？
“No, because I don’t want to upset her.” His brown eyes got very big.
“不会，因为我不想让她失望，”他瞪大了棕色的眼睛说。
She: “It would be O.K.”
她：“没关系的。”
He: “O.K.”
他：“好吧。”
She: “It would help me if you would say to me — ”
她：“假如你能跟我实说，对我会更有——”
He: “O.K., O.K., O.K.”
他：“好吧，好吧，好吧。”
She: “I think this issue is especially important. . . . What you’ve wanted has fluctuated a lot, and part of it is to try to figure out what’s genuine and what’s a part of response to the pain. That’s the hardest part for me, when you say: ‘I don’t want to go to the hospital ever again, I don’t like being in the hospital and I don’t want to be sick. If the choice is going to the hospital or dying, I’ll take the dying.’ ”
她：“我觉得这个问题特别重要……你的要求常有波动，我要做是试图了解哪些要求是真的，哪些部分是对疼痛的反应。当你说，‘我再也不想去医院了，我不喜欢住院，我也不喜欢生病。假如要在住院和去死之间做个选择，我宁愿选择去死。’我会觉得特别为难。”
Peggy turned to me. She wanted me to understand her thinking on this. It’s so hard to know what Brooke wants, she explained, because there have been times when she has taken him to the hospital, and he later says that she made the right call. It’s so hard, she repeated. She has to be able to hear how a transient despair differs from a deep and abiding decision to die. She believes he hasn’t made that deep, abiding decision yet, despite the “Final Letter.”
佩吉转过身来面对着我。她希望我理解她对此事的考虑。她解释说，特别难解读布鲁克想要什么，因为此前她曾送他去过几次院，事后他都说她做得很对。她反复说，这真太困难了。她必须能区别一瞬即逝的绝望和深层次的、选择死亡的持久决定。她相信，尽管布鲁克写了“绝笔”，但并没有做出这种深层次的持久决定。
She understands him well enough, she told me, to know when his apparent urgency is just a reflection of his dramatic way of presenting things: his deep voice, his massive size, his grimaces. “Brooke is very expressive when he’s in his full self,” she said.
她告诉我，她对他有充分的了解，所以知道有时候他表面上的迫切，实际上只是他戏剧性的表达方式：他低沉的嗓音，魁梧的身材，还有他做的鬼脸。她说，“当布鲁克完全是自己的时候，他非常具有表现力。”
Watching the dependence, indignity and sheer physical travail that Brooke must live through every day, Peggy told me, she doesn’t think she would have the stamina to endure a devastating injury like his. “It seems not what I’d want,” she said when I asked if she would choose to stay alive if she were paralyzed. While she might not want to persevere in such a constrained and difficult life, she believes that Brooke does want to, and she tends to interpret even his most anguished cries in a way that lets her conclude that he doesn’t quite mean what he says. But she worries that others in his life, even the caregivers who have become so close to him, might not be able to calibrate the sincerity of those over-the-top pleas and might leap too quickly to follow his instructions if he yelled out about wanting to end it all.
佩吉告诉我，眼见着布鲁克每天要依赖别人、有失尊严、忍受着身体上的巨大痛苦，她觉得自己恐怕不可能有毅力丞受像他所遇到的这种毁灭性伤残。当我问她，如果她瘫痪了，是否会选择继续活下去时，她说：“似乎那不是我想要的。”尽管她自己不想坚持这样艰难痛苦地生存，但她相信布鲁克确实愿意如此，而且她往往用某种方式来解释他最痛苦的哭求，这种方式让她相信那并非他的真心要求。但她担心他生活中的其他人，包括那些跟他已经相当亲近的护理人员，也许无法清楚地判断他的话的真心成分，特别是他大声哭诉自己想结束这一切时，他们也许会过快地遵从他的指令。
Suzy Quirantes, the senior member of the caregiving team, a trained respiratory therapist who has been with Brooke since the day he came home in 2010, sees it a bit differently. “I’ve worked with death a lot,” she told me. She thinks there have been times when Peggy has been unable to hear Brooke’s heartfelt expressions of a desire to die. “Last year, right after the feeding tube, he kept refusing his therapies,” she said. “And I said, ‘If you’re really serious, if you’re done, I need you to be very clear, and you need to be able to talk to Peggy so she understands.’ ” He never did talk to Peggy, though — maybe because he wasn’t clear in his own mind what he wanted. “He has said, ‘I’m done,’ and then when we kind of talk more about it, he gets scared,” Suzy said. “He says: ‘What I mean is I’m done doing this stuff in the hospital. But I’m not ready to die yet.’ ”
护理团队的资深成员苏茜·奎兰特斯(Suzy Quirantes)是一位受过科班训练的呼吸治疗师，自从2010年布鲁克出院回家以来，一直为他担任护理，对此她有不同看法。“我已经跟死亡打过不少次交道了，”她对我说。她认为，已经有过几次，佩吉未能听出布鲁克发自内心的渴望死的表达。她说，“去年他插了喂食管后，一直拒绝治疗。我对他说，‘假如你是真心的，如果你不想继续了，你得非常清楚地表示出来，你得跟佩吉说，让她也明白。’”但他一直没跟佩吉说——也许是因为他没想明白自己要什么。“他曾说过，‘我不想继续了，’但在我们更多谈及安乐死时，他又害怕了，”苏茜说。“他说：‘我不想继续的是住院。但我还没准备去死。’”
The tangled, sometimes contradictory nature of Brooke’s feelings has led to subtle shifts in Peggy’s scholarly thinking. She still believes that, whenever possible, people have the right to choose when and how to die. But she now better understands how vast and terrifying that choice really is. “What has changed,” she told me, “is my sense of how extremely complex, how extremely textured, any particular case is.” This realization is infinitely more fraught when you’re inextricably invested in the outcome and when the signals your loved one sends are not only hard to read but also are constantly in flux.
布鲁克紊乱的、时而矛盾的想法，让佩吉的学术思想也出现了微妙的转变。她仍然相信，在所有可能的情况下，人们有权选择何时及怎样死去。但她现在对这种选择之深远与令人生畏的程度，有了更好的认识。她告诉我，“我认识到，任何具体个案都是如何极其复杂、如何极其千头万绪。这就是我想法的变化。”如果你将不可避免地参与到其中来，如果你所爱的人传递的信号不仅难以解读，而且还不断发生波动，这种认知也会更加极其令人忧虑。
The only consistent choice Brooke has made — and he’s made it again and again every time he gives informed consent for a feeding tube or a diaphragmatic pacer, every time he permits treatment of an infection or a bedsore — is the one to stay alive. This is the often-unspoken flip side of the death-with-dignity movement that Peggy has long been a part of. Proponents generally focus on only one branch of the decision tree: the moment of choosing death. There’s much talk of living wills, D.N.R. orders, suicide, withdrawal of life support, exit strategies. Brooke’s experience has forced Peggy to step back from that moment to an earlier one: the moment of confronting one’s own horrific circumstances and choosing, at least for now, to keep on living. But the reasons for that choice are complicated too. Brooke told me that he knows Peggy is a strong person who will recover from his death and move on. But he has also expressed a desire not to abandon her. And Peggy worries that sometimes Brooke is saying he wants to keep fighting and stay alive not because that’s what he wants, but because he thinks that’s what she wants him to want. And to further complicate things, it’s not even clear what Peggy really wants him to want. Her own desires seem to shift from day to day. One thing that doesn’t change, though: She is deeply afraid of misunderstanding Brooke’s wishes in a way that can’t be undone. The worst outcome, to her, would be to think that this time he really does want to die and then to feel as if she might have been wrong.
布鲁克做出的唯一始终未变的选择就是活下去，每次当他在知情的情况下同意安插喂食管或膈肌起搏器时，每次当他允许对感染或褥疮进行治疗时，他在一次又一次做出这个选择。对于佩吉多年参与的尊严死亡运动，这是一个常常没有言明的对立面。支持者往往只聚集在决策树的一根枝条上：选择死亡的刹那。有许多关于生前预嘱、放弃抢救、撤除生命支持机器、退出战略的讨论。布鲁克的经历迫使佩吉退后一步，考虑那个刹那之前的时刻：那个面对个人可怕的境遇，选择暂时继续活下去的时刻。但这个选择背后的原因同样非常复杂。布鲁克告诉我，他知道佩吉为人坚强，能从他去世的打击下恢复过来，继续前进。但他也表达了不想抛下她的愿望。佩吉担心有时候布鲁克说他希望继续战斗，继续活下去，并不是因为他想要如此，而是因为他觉得这是她希望他去做的事情。而令事情更为复杂的是，大家并不清楚佩吉到底希望布鲁克要做什么。她自己的愿望似乎也是一天一变。不过有一点一直没有改变：她特别担心自己以某种方式误解了布鲁克的意愿，而那种方式的后果不可挽回。对她来说，最糟糕的结局是以为这次他真的想要撒手人寰，但事后却感觉她也许搞错了。
Since Brooke’s accident, Peggy has continued to advocate for people seeking to die. She went to Vancouver in late 2011 to testify in court in the case of Gloria Taylor, a woman with ALS who wanted help ending her life when she was ready. And in 2012, she presented testimony by Skype in the case of Marie Fleming, an Irishwoman with multiple sclerosis who was making a similar request. The plaintiffs were a lot like Brooke, cognitively intact with progressively more useless bodies. But they felt a need to go to court to assure they would have control in the timing of their own deaths. Brooke has not. Perhaps that’s because he believes that Peggy will follow through on a plan to help him die if that’s what he ultimately chooses.
在布鲁克出事后，佩吉继续倡导求死的人的权益。2011年底，她去了温哥华，出庭为葛罗瑞亚·泰勒(Gloria Taylor)作证，这位女士患有肌萎缩性侧索硬化症，希望在她准备好时，请人帮助她终结生命。而在2012年，她通过Skype为玛丽·弗莱明(Marie Fleming)的案件作证，这位爱尔兰女性患多发性硬化症，跟泰勒提出了类似的诉求。两位原告都与布鲁克有很多相似之处，她们的认知能力没有受损，但身体变得越来越无用。可是她们觉得有必要走上法庭，确保能在自己死亡时间的问题上占有主导权。而布鲁克没有去法庭。也许因为他相信，如果自己最终选择死亡，佩吉一定会去完成一个帮助他死亡的计划。
Those seeking to end their lives are up against opponents who say that helping the terminally ill to die will lead eventually to pressure being put on vulnerable people — the elderly, the poor, the chronically disabled, the mentally ill — to agree to die to ease the burden on the rest of us. Peggy doesn’t buy it. The scholarly work she is most proud of is a study she conducted in 2007, which is one of the first to look empirically at whether people are being coerced into choosing to end their lives. Peggy was reassured when she and her colleagues found that in Oregon and the Netherlands, two places that allow assisted dying, the people who used it tended to be better off and more educated than the people in groups considered vulnerable.
那些寻求结束自己生命的人，面对的是这样一些反对者，他们认为帮助绝症病人自尽，最终会给导致给那些脆弱的人群制造压力——那些年长者、穷人、长期残障人士、精神病人——强迫他们同意为了解脱其他人的重负而选择死亡。佩吉对此不以为然。她最为自豪的一项学术成果是她在2007年做的一项研究，这是最早的以实际经验为根据来研究人们是否被迫选择终结生命的研究之一。佩吉和她的同事们在两个允许协助自杀的地方（美国的俄勒冈州和荷兰）发现，寻求协助自杀的人，与公认的脆弱群体的人相比，往往经济情况更为优裕，受教育程度也更高，佩吉的顾虑也因此被打消。
What Peggy has become more aware of now is the possibility of the opposite, more subtle, kind of coercion — not the influence of a greedy relative or a cost-conscious state that wants you to die, but pressure from a much-loved spouse or partner who wants you to live. The very presence of these loved ones undercuts the notion of true autonomy. We are social beings, and only the unluckiest of us live in a vacuum; for most, there are always at least a few people who count on us, adore us and have a stake in what we decide. Everyone’s autonomy abuts someone else’s.
佩吉现在对另一种相反的、更加微妙的可能胁迫变得更加敏感，不是贪婪的亲属或资金窘迫的政府想让你死的影响，而是深爱你的配偶或伴侣想要你活下去所施加的压力。这些所爱之人的存在，削弱了能真正自主的概念。我们都是社会动物，只有最不幸的人才生活在真空里；而对大多数人来说，至少总有几个人指望我们、爱慕我们，我们的抉择对他们存在着利害关系。每个人的自主权都与他人的自主权有关联。
During Peggy’s cross-examination in the Gloria Taylor trial, the Canadian government’s lawyer tried to argue that Brooke’s choice to keep living weakened Peggy’s argument in favor of assisted suicide. Isn’t it true, the lawyer asked, that “this accident presented some pretty profoundly serious challenges to your thinking on the subject?”
佩吉在出庭葛罗瑞亚·泰勒案的交叉质问时，加拿大政府的律师辩论说，布鲁克继续活下去的选择削弱了佩吉支持协助自杀的观点。律师问，“那起事故对你有关这个问题的思考构成了相当深刻的严峻挑战”，不是吗？
Yes, Peggy said, but only by provoking the “concerted re-re-rethinking” that any self-respecting philosopher engages in. She remained committed to two moral constructs in end-of-life decision making: autonomy and mercy. “Only where both are operating — that is, where the patient wants to die and dying is the only acceptable way for the patient to avoid pain and suffering — is there a basis for physician-assisted dying,” she told the court in an affidavit. “Neither principle is sufficient in and of itself and, in tandem, the two principles operate as safeguards against abuse.”
佩吉说，确实如此，但它构成的挑战仅在于激发了所有有自尊的哲学家都在从事的“齐心合力的反复斟酌”。她继续坚信做出临终决定的两大道德概念：自主与慈悲。她在一份宣誓证书中告诉法庭：“只有在这两个概念同起作用时——也就是说，病人希望死，而死亡是患者免遭痛苦折磨的唯一可以接受的方式——才有医师协助死亡的基础。两个原则中的任何一个单独成立都不充足，只有两个原则共同成立时，才能为防止滥用形成安全屏障。”
One morning in April, I called to speak with Peggy and Brooke. Peggy told me that when I was there in February, Brooke had an undiagnosed urinary tract infection that affected both his body and his clarity of thinking. It had since cleared up, she said. “He’s a different person than the one you saw.” The possibility that he’d begun a true cognitive decline was averted, at least for the time being.
4月的一天，我打电话给佩吉和布鲁克。佩吉告诉我，2月份我去他们那儿的时候，布鲁克患了尿道感染，但当时未曾得到诊断，这既影响了他的身体，也影响了他思维的清晰度。感染后来得到了治疗，她说：“现在他跟你上次见他时，完全判若两人。”布鲁克的认知能力开始下降的可能性至少暂时得以避免。
“I’m cautiously happy about life in general,” Brooke said on speakerphone, stopping between phrases to catch his breath. “I’m getting stronger. Working hard. Loving my teaching. My friends and caregivers. My wife.”
“对于生活，总的来说，我现在谨慎地快乐，”布鲁克通过免提电话对我说，他说话一字一顿地，停顿时，他深深地喘着气。“我的体力更强。我在努力工作。热爱我的教学，我的朋友和护理人员，我的妻子。”
I asked about Brooke’s “Final Letter” from last summer. I was still trying to understand why Peggy had ignored it, just days after she typed it up for him, and instead took him to the E.R. to treat his pleural effusion. Why hadn’t she just let the infection end his life?
我问及去年夏天布鲁克的那封“绝笔”。我仍然想要弄明白，为什么佩吉在替他打好了这封信的几天后，却又不理睬它，把他送到急诊室去治疗胸膜积液。为什么她不干脆让感染结束他的生命呢？
“Brooke had always said, ‘I’m willing to go to the hospital for something that’s reversible, but I don’t want to die in the hospital,’ ” she said, as Brooke listened in on the speakerphone. So she had to “intuit” whether this was something reversible, and she believed it was. “This didn’t feel like the end,” she said, “but of course you don’t know that for sure.” In addition, there was that image in her mind of Brooke’s ideal of a “generous death.” It’s hard to say whether she’ll ever think conditions are exactly right for the kind of death Brooke wants.
她说，“布鲁克总是说，‘我愿意去医院治疗那些可逆转的症状，但我不想死在医院里’。”布鲁克此刻通过免提电话在一边听着。所以她必须靠“直觉”来判断那是不是一种可逆转的症状，她认为那是。她说：“我觉得那还不是结束。但是，你当然不可能有十分的把握。”此外，她脑海里还不停地翻腾着布鲁克“优雅死去”的理想。很难说她会认为能达到符合布鲁克所希望之死的全部条件。
The next day I learned that a few hours after my phone call, Brooke suddenly became agitated and started to yell. “Something bad is happening,” he boomed. “I’m not going to make it through the morning.” Peggy and the caregiver on duty, Jaycee, tried to figure out what might have brought this on, just hours after he told me he was “cautiously happy.” He had gone the previous two nights without his usual Klonopin, which treats his anxiety; maybe that was the explanation. Or maybe discussing his “Final Letter” with me, remembering the desperation of that time, had upset him. He was also getting ready for the first class of a new semester, covering the second half of “Moby-Dick”; maybe he was experiencing the same teaching anxiety that had plagued him his whole career.
第二天我得知，就在我打电话几小时后，布鲁克突然变得焦虑起来，开始大声叫喊。他喊道，“要出事了，我活不过上午了。”佩吉和当班的护理人员杰茜想弄清楚他为什么一下子变成了这样，因为就在几小时前，他还告诉我他“谨慎地快乐”。前两个晚上，他没有像往常那样服用治疗焦虑的氯硝西泮，也许这能解释他的发病。也有可能是因为跟我讨论“绝笔”，回忆起那次抑郁，让他沮丧不已。此外，他还在为新学期的第一堂课作准备，在这学期他将讲《白鲸》的下半部分，在他的教师生涯中，他一直因讲课而焦虑，也许这种焦虑又一次影响了他。
Deciding that Brooke was having a panic attack, Peggy told Jaycee to give him half a dose of Klonopin. She did, but things got worse. Brooke’s eyes flashed with fear, and he yelled to Peggy that he was about to do something terrible to her — meaning, she guessed, that he was going to die and leave her alone. Finally he announced that he wanted to turn off all the machines. Everything. He wanted to be disconnected from all the tubes and hoses that were keeping him alive. He was ready to die.
佩吉断定布鲁克正在发作急性焦虑症，于是让杰茜给他用半个剂量的氯硝西泮。杰茜照做了，但情况变得更糟。布鲁克眼中闪着惊恐，他对佩吉大喊起来，说要对她做出很坏很坏的事情——她猜，他的意思是他要死了，留下她一个人。最终他宣布，他想把所有维持生命的仪器关掉。所有的。他想把所有维持他生命的管线都拆下来。他已经做好死亡的准备。
Peggy and Jaycee did what he asked. They turned off the ventilator and disconnected it from the trach, and placed a cap at the opening in his throat. They turned off the oxygen. They turned off the external battery for the diaphragmatic pacer. They showed Brooke that everything was disconnected.
佩吉和杰茜按他要求的去做了。她们关掉了呼吸机，将它从喉管上拆了下来，在他喉咙的开口处盖了个盖子。她们关掉了氧气。关闭了隔膜起搏器的外接电池。她们指给布鲁克看：所有管线都已经断开。
Brooke sat back in his wheelchair then and closed his eyes. There were no tears, no formal goodbyes; it all happened too quickly for that. He sat there waiting to die, ready to die, and felt an incredible sense of calm.
于是，布鲁克仰坐在轮椅上，合上双眼。没有眼泪，没有正式的道别；这一切发生得太快了，根本来不及告别。他坐在那里静候死亡，准备赴死，感到了一种难以置信的平静。
Two minutes passed. Three minutes passed. He opened his eyes and saw Peggy and Jaycee sitting on stools, one on either side, watching him.
两分钟过去了。三分钟过去了。他睁开眼，看见佩吉和杰茜坐在吧台椅上看着他，一人在他左边、一人在他右边。
“Is this a dream?” he asked.
“我是在做梦吗？”他问。
“No, it’s not a dream.”
“不，不是做梦。”
“I didn’t die?”
“我没死？”
To Brooke, it was a kind of miracle — all the machinery had been shut off, just as he asked, but he was still alive. He felt refreshed, as if he had made it through some sort of trial. He asked Jaycee to reattach everything, and three hours later, after he had a nap, his students arrived to start the new semester, and Brooke began teaching “Moby-Dick” again.
对布鲁克来说，这是一种奇迹——所有仪器都如他要求的那样关闭了，而他还活着。他振奋了起来，就好像从某种考验中成功走出来一样。他让杰茜把所有仪器重新接回去，然后打了个盹，三小时后，学生们来到他家，新学期的课程开始了，布鲁克再次讲授起《白鲸》。
But it was no miracle. “I know what his medical condition is,” Peggy told me later, out of Brooke’s earshot. “The reason he didn’t die is he’s not at the moment fully vent-dependent anymore. He can go without oxygen for a while, and he can go with the pacer turned off for some time.” She didn’t say any of this to Brooke. “It seems to have been such an epiphany, such a discovery, when he woke up and discovered he was still alive,” she said. “I don’t really want to puncture that bubble.”
这其实不是奇迹。“我知道他的健康状况，”后来佩吉躲在布鲁克听不到的地方，悄悄跟我说。“他之所以没死，是因为在那个时刻他已不是完全依赖呼吸机。他能断开氧气一会儿，或者把起搏器关闭一段时间，都不会出事。”她没有把这些告诉布鲁克。她说，“当他醒来，发现自己还活着时，那似乎是一种显灵，一种大发现。我真的不想把这种感觉捅破。”
If for some reason Brooke had become unconscious, she and Jaycee would have revived him, Peggy told me, because she didn’t believe he really wanted to die. She thinks what he really wanted was to believe he had a measure of control, that he could ask for an end to his life and be heard. “We showed him that we would do what he asked for,” she said, “and he thought it was real.” But it wasn’t real, I said. It all sounded like an elaborate end-of-life placebo, an indication that in fact he was not in control, that he wasn’t being heard. Peggy laughed and did not disagree.
佩吉告诉我，如果因为某种原因布鲁克真的昏迷过去，她和杰茜也会将他救回来，因为她不相信当时他真的想死。她觉得他真正需要的是相信自己拥有一定程度的控制，希望自己能够要求终结生命，而且这种要求会有人听。她说，“我们证明给他看，我们会按他的要求去做，而且他认为那是真的。”我说，可那不是真的。那听起来就像是一种精心设计的临终关怀安慰剂，其实意味着实际上他不能控制，他的声音也没有得到倾听。佩吉笑了笑，没有反驳我。
She’s not good at keeping secrets from Brooke, though, and by the time I contacted them both by Skype later in the week, she’d told him the truth about that afternoon. In retrospect, Brooke said, the whole thing seemed kind of comical. He mimed it for me, leaning back with his eyes closed waiting for the end to come, then slowly opening them, raising his eyebrows practically to his hairline, overacting like a silent-film star tied to the tracks who slowly realizes the distant train will never arrive. He looked good, handsome in his burgundy polo shirt, mugging for the webcam. Some new crisis, some new decision, was inevitable — in fact, last month it took the form of another farewell letter, stating his desire to die in the spring of 2014, which is when he expects to be finished teaching his next course, on “Don Quixote.” But at that moment, Brooke was feeling good. “I think it will be a productive summer,” he said. And he and Peggy smiled.
不过，她并不擅于对布鲁克保密，在那周晚些时候我又一次通过Skype跟他们联系，而在那天下午，她已经对他说出了真相。布鲁克说，回过头来看，整个那件事有点像是场闹剧。他用哑剧的方式给我重演了那一幕，他把头仰在椅子上，闭上双眼，等待死亡的到来，然后慢慢睁开眼睛，眉头简直要扬到头顶上去了，他演得极为夸张，很像无声电影明星的表演，看到自己被绑在铁轨上但慢慢意识到远方的火车永远不会驶来。他气色不错，穿着酒红色的马球衫，显得十分英俊，在抢网络像机的镜头。一些新危机，一些新决定，将不可避免地到来——事实上，就在上个月，这种情况以他的又一封“绝笔”信的形式出现过，他表达了在2014年春天离世的心愿，到那时，他教授的下一门课程将结束，那是有关《唐吉诃德》(Don Quixote)的。但眼下布鲁克感觉很好。“我认为，这将是个多产的夏天，”他说。接着，他和佩吉都笑了。