A COASTAL VILLA AND GUESTHOUSE IN JAPAN
日本的一栋海滨别墅与客用楼
380 MILLION YEN ($3,192,000)
3.8亿日元（319万美元，约合人民币2026万元）
This two-story, two-bedroom, 1,727-square-foot villa, completed in 2011, is set on about 1.7 forested acres overlooking Sagami Bay in Hayama, a town about 90 minutes’ drive south of Tokyo. The property also has a two-story guesthouse built in 1963 on a bluff that is reached by a fairly strenuous footpath.  The guesthouse, about 1,323 square feet, was inspired by Scandinavian and American minimalist architecture, and the current owners had it renovated in 2009.
这栋两层楼、两居室、面积1727平方英尺（约160平方米）的别墅建于2011年，坐落在大约1.7英亩（约6880平方米）的林地上，眺望着叶山(Hayama)的相模湾(Sagami Bay)，叶山是东京南部的一座小镇，距离东京约90分钟的车程。该房产还附带一栋两层的客用楼，建于1963年，位于陡岸上，从一条非常难走的小径可以上去。这栋约1323平方英尺（约123平方米）的客用楼在设计上受到了北欧和美国极简主义建筑的启发，而现任的几位业主曾在2009年对其进行过翻修。
The main villa has a basement of reinforced concrete and two stories above it made of wood; the entrance is on the second floor. There a hallway leads past two bedrooms and the bathrooms. The main interior bath has a Jacuzzi tub, a rain shower head and two conventional shower heads; an adjacent powder room has two sinks, with a separate toilet room next to that. Another Jacuzzi tub can be reached from the outdoors, as can a rain-head shower. 
这栋主体别墅有一间用钢筋混凝土浇筑的地下室，而上面两层楼则是木质结构；入口处在二楼。有一条走廊经过两间卧室及浴室。主浴室有极可意(Jacuzzi)水流按摩浴缸、一个雨式花洒和两个传统花洒；隔壁的化妆间中有两个盥洗池，旁边是一间独立的卫生间。这栋别墅的另一个极可意浴缸可以从户外直达，那里还有一间雨式花洒淋浴房。
Beyond the bathrooms, a spiral staircase leads to what is often referred to in Japan as the “LDK,” or living, dining and kitchen area; in this case, a “2” before the LDK indicates two bedrooms. The living area is furnished, and while furnishings are not included in the asking price, they are negotiable. The top floor of the villa has views of Sagami Bay — there are five beaches in Hayama — as well as the lush waterside hills of Hayama. The top floor also has a 650-square-foot deck, and the white, clean-lined kitchen has a dishwasher and an oven by Miele.
在这几间浴室外面，有一截旋转楼梯通往一处在日本常称为“LDK”的地方，也即客厅、餐厅和厨房区；以这栋楼为例，LDK前面的数字“2”指的是有两间卧室。这间客厅已经装修，虽然该费用在要价之外，但数额可以商榷。这栋别墅的顶楼可以看见相模湾的景色——叶山共有五处海滩——还可以看见海边郁郁葱葱的叶山。顶楼还有一处650平方英尺（约60平方米）的平台，这间线条整洁的白色厨房里有一台洗碗机和一台Miele烤箱。
The guesthouse atop the cliff has generated a lot of questions about earthquakes, flooding, landslides and the like, according to Chiaki Yamada of Housing Japan, the agency that has the listing.
据该房产的代理人、Housing Japan公司的山田千秋(Chiaki Yamada)说，这栋位于陡岸顶端的客用楼面临着许多有关地震、洪水和山体滑坡之类的问题。
“As it is located right on the beach, it is classified as being in the potentially hazardous zone for tsunamis and landslides that may occur from earthquakes,” she said. “However, as both houses have at least a concrete foundation, it has stayed sturdy over the years,” and no major damage has occurred.
“这栋楼恰好坐落在海滩上，所以被划归处于潜在危险区、可能经受由地震引起的海啸及山体滑坡的住宅，”她说。“然而，由于这两栋楼至少都是混凝土地基，所以多年来楼体一直很稳固，”没有发生过什么严重的损伤。
Ms. Yamada said that when the current owner renovated the guesthouse in 2009, a test showed that the concrete had actually grown stronger over time. Also, the current owner did a large-scale construction project to strengthen the embankment along the shore, she said.
山田说，现任业主于2009年翻修这栋客用楼时，一项测试表明，该房屋的混凝土实际上随时间流逝而变得更加坚固了。这位现任业主还大兴土木加固了沿岸的堤坝，她说。
The guesthouse also has a 2LDK layout — it has two bedrooms and a living-dining-kitchen area. In this case, they are all on the same floor, as is the bathroom, which has a tub, sink and toilet. Both levels of the guesthouse are concrete, and the lower level is used for storage. The entrance is on the second level. Floors are black slate from Miyagi prefecture, and walls are covered in striped zebrawood veneer. The kitchen has a Miele dishwasher.
这栋客用楼也是2LDK房型，也即有两间卧室和一处客厅-餐厅-厨房区。但在这栋楼中，这些房间都分布在同一层，这层楼中还有一间带浴缸、盥洗池与马桶的浴室。这栋客用楼的上下两层都是用混凝土浇筑的，其中下面一层用于储物。入口处位于第二层。屋内的地面铺着来自宫城县(Miyagi prefecture)的黑石板，墙壁上覆盖着带条纹的牛栓藤薄镶板。这间厨房里有一台Miele的洗碗机。
A section of the property is now used to park up to eight cars, but the area is large enough that another dwelling could also be built on it, Ms. Yamada said.
山田说，该房产有个区域最多可停放八辆车，但该区域的面积大得可以在上面另建一栋住宅了。
Hayama, which has a population of about 33,000 residents, is about an hour-and-a-half drive from central Tokyo; by public transportation, the trip would be closer to two hours from this house. The area is known for fishing and marine sports, with a marina nearby. Hayama is about an hour’s drive from Haneda Airport and about two hours from Tokyo Narita Airport.
目前居住着大约3.3万居民的叶山距离东京市中心约一个半小时的车程；如果搭乘公共交通，这趟从该住宅出发的旅程大约将近两个小时。该地区以捕鱼和海上运动著名，附近有一座码头。叶山距离羽田机场大约一小时的车程，距离东京成田机场大约两小时。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Certain parts of the Japanese housing market are seller’s markets, especially Tokyo.
日本有些地方的住宅市场为卖方市场，尤其是东京。
“The market can be characterized as a seller’s market in the center of Tokyo, but as a buyer’s market in other areas,” said Jiro Yoshida, an assistant professor of business at Pennsylvania State University.  The demand for housing in central Tokyo is strong because of investors from China and because of Abenomics, the economic stimulus program of Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
“在东京市的中心地带，房地产市场可以看成卖方市场，而在市内其他地方则是买房市场，”宾夕法尼亚州立大学的商学副教授吉田次郎(Jiro Yoshida)说。由于来自中国的投资者和安培经济学(Abenomics)即日本首相安培晋三推出的经济刺激政策，东京市中心的住宅需求十分强劲。
The history of the Japanese housing market has been a volatile one. In the 1980s, real estate there was booming because the country was expected to become a major economic center of Asia, said Erik Oskamp, the owner of Akasaka Real Estate in Tokyo. When that didn’t happen, he said, a massive housing bubble popped and home prices fell by about 50 percent, sometimes more, over the next decade. 
东京赤阪房地产公司(Akasaka Real Estate)的所有者埃里克·奥斯坎普(Erik Oskamp)说，日本的房地产市场历来动荡不定。在20世纪80年代，房地产业欣欣向荣，因为日本当时有望成为亚洲主要的经济中心。但期望变成泡影后，住宅市场的巨大泡沫破灭了，房价也在随后的十年里跌落了大约50%，有的会更多，他说。
James Keane, a senior consultant with Relo Japan, a company that provides moving services to expatriates, said that a lot of holiday homes were built in resort areas throughout Japan in the 1980s and early ’90s, “and many people found themselves unable to afford to keep them after the economy crashed.” As a result, large numbers of unoccupied holiday homes, particularly apartments, “can be bought for the equivalent of a few thousand U.S. dollars,” he said. Often, high maintenance fees are the catch, he said.
一家专门为外国人提供搬迁服务的公司Relo Japan的高级顾问詹姆斯·基恩(James Keane)说，在20世纪80年代至90年代早期，日本在许多景区修建了大量的度假房产，“但经济崩溃后，许多日本人发现，他们已经住不起这些房屋了。”结果，有大量空置的度假房产，尤其是公寓，“只需相当于几千美元的价格就能买到，”他说。通常，高额的管理费是问题所在，他说。
Mr. Keane said that traditionally buyers in Japan have wanted new homes, not resales, though that may be beginning to change.
基恩还说，日本的传统买家都想买新建的住宅，而不是二手住房，虽然这一现象已经开始改变。
“There are growing numbers of Japanese who are buying used properties cheaply and then renovating them,” he said. “Incidentally, there are supposedly something like 8 million unoccupied properties in Japan, although only a small portion of those are up for sale at any one time.”
“现在有越来越多的日本人在低价购买二手住宅，然后翻新，”他说。“顺便要提的是，日本可能有800万的空置房产吧，虽然其中只有一小部分在出售。”
WHO BUYS IN JAPAN
谁在日本买房
Besides Japanese, wealthy Chinese and Taiwanese are most active in buying real estate in Japan at the moment, Mr. Keane said. “It is seen as a good investment for them.”
基恩说，除了日本人之外，富有的中国人和台湾人目前都在积极地投资日本房地产。“对他们而言这似乎是一项不错的投资。”
Mr. Oskamp said there were no reliable statistics on foreign home buyers in Japan, but he estimated that perhaps 2 percent to 3 percent of all real estate transactions in Tokyo involve foreign buyers.
奥斯坎普说，关于在日本买房的外国人，目前尚无可靠的数据统计，但据他估计，在东京的房地产交易当中，可能有2%至3%涉及外国买家。
Areas outside Tokyo may attract substantially more foreign buyers with new developments that are heavily promoted outside Japan because they are not selling well to locals, he said.
东京之外的地区可能会在相当大的程度上吸引更多的外国买家，那里一些新开发的项目在日本之外的地方得到了大力推广，因为这些房产在本地的销售情况并不好，他说。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
Foreigners face no buying restrictions in Japan. Although it is possible to hire a lawyer, a real estate agent typically does the legal work in standard transactions, while a seller’s agent drafts the contract, agents said. The real estate agent’s commission of about 6 percent is typically split between the buyer and the seller. A judicial scrivener, or notary public, handles searches on the title’s history and registers the change in the property’s status.
外国买家在日本不受限制。据一些代理人说，虽然可以聘请律师，但房地产代理人往往会在标准化交易中承担那些法律工作，卖方代理人一般会起草交易合同。大约6%的房地产代理人佣金往往由买家和卖家共同分摊。司法公证人负责查询该房产的历史情况，并登记该房产状态的一些变化。
Mr. Oskamp said he typically tells buyers to expect to spend 5 percent to 7 percent of the purchase price on residential real estate transactions.  It can be difficult to impossible for a foreign home buyer without a business or credit history or a relative in Japan to obtain a mortgage from a Japanese bank. “The only mortgages available are in general for properties that are not a good investment,” Mr. Oskamp said. Even if a buyer could get a mortgage, it would be for only about half the loan amount, he said.
奥斯坎普说，他一般会告诉买家，要准备把购买价格的5%至7%用于支付住宅房地产的交易费用。对于在日本没有业务往来、信用记录或任何亲戚的外国买家，要从日本银行获得抵押贷款是非常困难、乃至不可能的。“唯一可提供的抵押贷款，一般是针对那些投资前景不佳的房地产的，”奥斯坎普说。即便一位买家可以获得抵押贷款，其额度也只有一半左右，他说。
WEBSITES
网站
Japan National Tourism Organization: jnto.go.jp 
日本国家旅游局：jnto.go.jp 
Official Tokyo Travel  Guide: gototokyo.org 
东京旅游指南官网：gototokyo.org 
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
Japanese; yen (1 yen = $0.0084)
日语；日元（1日元=0.0084美元，约合人民币0.05元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
The actual annual asset and city planning tax for this property for 2015 was 276,297 yen, or about $2,320.  The current owners pay about 120,000 yen, or about $1,008, per month to a property management company for maintenance and repairs.
该房产2014年实际缴纳的年资产税和城市规划税为276297日元（约合人民币14589元），或大约2320美元。现任的几位业主每个月交给一家房地产管理公司大约120000日元（约合人民币6336元），或大约1008美元，以支付维护和修缮的费用。
CONTACT
联系方式
Adam German, Housing Japan, (011-81-3) 3588-8861; housingjapan.com
Adam German, Housing Japan, (011-81-3) 3588-8861; housingjapan.com