Caleb and Harper cannot share a bedroom forever. For now, Rachel Goldstein cites a number of not-unconvincing reasons to keep her 7-year-old son and 4-year-old daughter together in the family’s Park Slope brownstone.
迦勒(Caleb)和哈珀(Harper)不可能永远同住在一间卧室里。而就目前而言，瑞秋·戈德斯坦(Rachel Goldstein)找出了几个并不缺乏说服力的原因，来解释自己为何让7岁的儿子和4岁的女儿在他们位于公园坡(Park Slope)褐石公寓的家里起居在一起。
For one thing, there is a conservation of parenting energy, a nonrenewable resource. “I can’t imagine having to do two bedtimes,” Ms. Goldstein said on a recent morning.
首先一点，这样可以节省父母的精力，这可是一项不可再生的资源。“我无法想象怎么分别去催两个小家伙上床，”戈德斯坦在不久前的一个早晨说。
And the siblings entertain each other — if by “entertain” you mean “cage fight.” “They’ve been wrestling a little lately,” Ms. Goldstein said. “He’s got long hair, and she’s not afraid to grab it with both hands and yank.” (Caleb, for his part, could lead a nonviolence movement.)
这对兄妹彼此会闹着玩——如果你说“闹着玩”意思是指“在一个窝里打架”的话。“他们最近有点小打小闹，”戈德斯坦说，“儿子头发长长了，于是女儿就肆无忌惮地用双手抓住他的头发猛拉。”（而就迦勒而言，他只能做一些非暴力的动作。）
The best reason to leave the boy and the girl in a common bedroom, however, is that Ms. Goldstein, a social worker, and her husband, a lawyer, have no other choice.
不过，让儿女同住一间卧室的最好理由是，身为一名社会工作者的戈德斯坦和她的律师丈夫没有别的选择。
Except for a spare room, the couple’s 1,150-square-foot home offers everything they could want: a deck and backyard, a historic tree-lined block, a short walk to Prospect Park and the train, a coveted elementary school. Ms. Goldstein can imagine moving up to a three-bedroom nearby. What she cannot yet fathom are the $1.6 million listings.
除了没有再多出一个房间，夫妇俩这处1150平方英尺（约106.8平方米）的家给了他们想要的一切：露天的平台和后院，绿树成荫、历史悠久的街区，几步路之外的展望公园(Prospect Park)，以及轻轨和一所让人梦寐以求的小学。戈德斯坦可以接受搬到附近的一栋三居室公寓中去，但她无法理解那些待售房屋高达160万美元（约合人民币974.7万元）的价格。
A bunk bed proved a little cheaper. “So far, it’s fine,” she said. “We’re open to seeing how it goes. I can’t imagine when he’s 11 and she’s 8 ...” and then she paused. “I don’t know! Maybe when he’s 12 and she’s 9?”
一张双层床真的合算一点。“迄今为止还没出什么问题，”她说，“但我们随时都在关注他们相处的情况。我无法想象他长到11岁、而她长到8岁的时候......”然后她停了一下，“我不知道！或许到他12岁、她9岁的时候？”
In a way, the only thing unusual about having a son and a daughter sharing a bedroom, Ms. Goldstein said, is that when she looks around for other examples, “I don’t think I know anyone else.”
从某方面讲，让儿子与女儿同住一间卧室，唯一不寻常的地方就是，戈德斯坦说，当她想在身边找到其他相似的例子时，“我应该不认识什么其他人了。”
It’s not a taboo. Or maybe it is.
这不是什么禁忌。但也可能是的。
Parents of opposite-sex children in New York, and other daffy real estate markets, confront what seems to be an impossible equation. The family needs to add a bedroom or subtract a child. The other solution — shared quarters — seems elegant at first, but quickly develops into a high-stakes calculus. The variables include age, gender, family dynamics and personality, and they change over time. What could go wrong, but everything?
在纽约市以及其他疯狂的房地产市场中，一些有不同性别孩子的父母，面对的是一个看似无法成立的等式。家里要么得增加一间卧室，要么得减少一个孩子。而另一种情况——共住一个房间——初看似乎很体面，但很快就会变成一道事关重大的微积分考题。其中的变量有年龄、性别、家庭变故和个性，随着时间的推移，它们一直在变化。怎么可能一切都不会出岔子？
There’s a euphemism for this kind of anxiety: ick. To spell it out just a bit, does the mixed-sex bedroom represent an inherent risk to children’s social and sexual development?
有一个委婉的说法可以形容这种焦虑：恶心(ick)。解释得更具体一点，这种混合性别的卧室对孩子们的社会交往能力和两性发育来说，会代表着一种固有的风险吗？
“The answer is, we don’t know,” said Laurie Kramer, a professor of applied family studies at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign with a research specialty in healthy sibling relationships. For all the scientific literature in her field, she said, “We haven’t really studied this.”
“答案是，我们不知道，”伊利诺大学香槟分校(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)的应用家庭学教授劳瑞·克莱默(Laurie Kramer)说，她的研究专长是健康的兄妹关系。从该领域中的所有科学文献来看，她说，“我们还没有认真研究过这一点。”
Another unknown is just how common this sibling arrangement is. The Census Bureau doesn’t try to track the phenomenon. And several demographers deemed the question a stumper. But the 2011 New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey provided at least a few hints to Emily Rosenbaum, a sociology professor at Fordham University and an expert on urban demography.
另一个未知的方面，是这种兄妹共住一个房间的情况有多普遍。人口统计局没有打算追查这一现象；而几位人口学家则认定这是个难题。但是2011年度的纽约市住房与空置调查(2011 New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey)至少提供了几条线索，给福特汉姆大学(Fordham University)的社会学教授和都市人口学专家艾米丽·罗森鲍姆(Emily Rosenbaum)。
Of the city’s estimated 471,046 households with 2 children under the age of 18, almost a third had kids sharing a bedroom. And more than 4 percent of the homes had more than 2 children in a bedroom.
在该市约471046个有两名18岁以下孩子的家庭当中，几乎三分之一的家庭让孩子们住在同一间卧室里。而超过4%的家庭有多于两个孩子住在同一间卧室里。
These figures seemingly point to all permutations of room-sharing. Yet the boy-girl breakdown resisted Dr. Rosenbaum’s computations.
这些数字似乎指出了所有合住的组合。然而，男孩女孩共住情况的细化统计，阻碍了罗森鲍姆的运算。
Her interest is more than purely academic, she explained in an email. Her 8-year-old twins, Tom and Claire, share a bedroom in her Upper West Side home. The floor plan is a complicated bit of math unto itself. She and her husband combined three studio apartments and somehow ended up with a two-bedroom, three-bath unit that adds up to about 1,200 square feet.
她的兴趣更偏向纯学术，她在一封电子邮件中解释说。她本人也有一对8岁大的双胞胎，汤姆(Tom)和克莱尔(Claire)，在她位于上西区的家中同住一间卧室。这套公寓的平面图，本身就是个有点复杂的数学题。她和丈夫打通了三套单间公寓(studio apartment)，最终得到了一套相当于两卧室、三浴室的住宅单元，总面积约为1200平方英尺（约111.5平方米）。
The children’s room has two entrances, and initially Dr. Rosenbaum erected a “Billy” barricade in the center out of Ikea bookshelves. This was apparently no place to play. In turn, “they’d drag all their toys, etc., out of their rooms and into the living room,” she wrote. “The mess made me crazy.”
孩子们的房间有两个入口，起初罗森鲍姆在中间用宜家书架设了一条“三八线”。显然，这样就没有地方让孩子们玩耍了。结果，“他们把所有玩具之类的东西都从房间里拖出来，放在了客厅，”她写道，“乱糟糟得让我抓狂。”
Now the children sleep on one side and their toys reside on the other. The Billy barricade, it seems, is less like the Berlin Wall and more like the partition of Jerusalem: a contested and shifting border, with no permanent solution.
现在，两个孩子睡一边，玩具摆在另一边。这条“三八线”看上去不那么像柏林墙，倒更像是耶路撒冷的分区线：一条你争我夺不断变化的边界，没有一劳永逸的解决方式。
A temporary wall would seem to be one way to settle brother and sister. Yet Manhattan Pressurized Walls, a contractor that constructs room dividers, reports that this quandary accounts for just 1 percent of customer inquiries.
一面临时墙壁，似乎是让兄弟姐妹能够合住的一种安排。然而，一家建造房间分隔墙的承包商Manhattan Pressurized Walls透露，这样的窘境在客户咨询里只占1%。
It’s not that a provisional wall wouldn’t work for parents, explained a company representative. But “a lot of the time they’re more creative and do something on their own. The French thing” — that is, a sort of a dressing screen — “the Chinese blinds, the vinyl curtains.”
倒不是说一面临时墙壁对父母们没有用，一位公司代表解释说，但“大部分时候，他们更有创造力，会自己做些东西。比如那种法式的东西”——那是一种更衣屏风——“还有那种中式百叶窗，塑料帘。”
And yet all these fixes assume that something is broken and that children crave privacy. Seven-year-old Riley “doesn’t like to be left alone,” said his mother, Jong Weiss. She and her husband, who works in finance, adored their one-bedroom prewar in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, but they didn’t hesitate to snap up an apartment down the hall.
然而，所有这些安排都是在假定——不对劲了，孩子们渴望有隐私。7岁的赖利(Riley)“不喜欢一个人待着，”他的母亲容·韦斯(Jong Weiss)说。她和就职于金融界的丈夫都很喜欢他们在布鲁克林温莎公园社区(Windsor Terrace)的那套单卧室战前公寓，但他们还是毫不犹豫地买了另一套公寓。
“When we moved to the two-bedroom,” she recalled, “we said, ‘You can have your own room.’ He didn’t like that at all. He said: ‘I’ll be all by myself. I’ll be scared.’ ”
“我们搬进那套两居室的公寓时，”她回忆，“我们说，‘你可以有自己的房间了。’但他一点也不喜欢。他说：‘我要一个人待着了，我会害怕的。’”
The arrival of his sister, Billie, was a boon. She’s 2 years old now, and the age gap is big enough that Riley treats her not as a rival, but as his charge. “He takes her out of the crib for me,” Ms. Weiss said. “They take a shower together and he bathes her. He’s very helpful. Sometimes he understands her needs more than I do.”
妹妹比利(Billie)的到来是个恩赐。她现在已经2岁了，年龄上的差距已经大到赖利根本没把她当做对手看待，而是自己要照管的对象。“他帮我把她带出婴儿床，”韦斯说，“他们一起洗澡，他还帮她洗。他是个好帮手。有时候，他比我更懂得她想要什么。”
If there’s something to be squeamish about, “the kids are not aware of it,” she said.
如果有什么要介意的话，“孩子们还没有意识到吧。”她说。
“The parents take the initiative to place that thought in the kid,” Ms. Weiss added. “If your daughter asked you, ‘Why are you separating us?’ what would you say?”
“都是父母们把那种想法灌输给孩子的，”韦斯补充道，“如果女儿问你，‘为什么你要把我们分开？’你会怎么说？”
If the brother-sister bedroom represents a real problem, it is a #firstworldproblem, as the Twittering classes would have it. A 2008 United Nations Habitat report, for instance, listed the occupancy ratio in Nigeria at six persons for a room measuring 215 square feet.
如果这种兄妹共住的情况真的是个问题，那么这不仅仅是一个推特网(Twitter)可能会划分的“第一世界的问题”(#firstworldproblem)。比如说，一份2008年的联合国生活环境报告(United Nations Habitat report)列举了尼日利亚的住房占有率，为六人一间面积为215平方英尺（约20平方米）的房间。
That density may sound extreme. But throughout history, most of the world’s population has subsisted in a common room. This is also true of the United States.
那种密度可能听起来很极端。但纵观历史，世界上的大多数人都曾和他人在同一房间内生活过。美国也是如此。
A rough 18th- or early-19th-century farmhouse may have had a downstairs space (a kitchen and parlor) where the parents slept and an unheated attic loft, often reached by ladder, where all the children (and possibly the servants) would bed down. In Britain, livestock had been expelled from the family’s long house just a few centuries earlier.
在一栋粗糙的18世纪或19世纪早期农舍里，也许就有楼下的区域（一间厨房和会客室）供父母就寝；还会有一间没暖气的阁楼让所有孩子（可能还有仆人们）栖身，通常要用梯子爬上去。在英国，直到几个世纪前，牲畜才被赶出家里的长屋。
Sharing a room meant nothing in particular. “They were probably even sharing the same bed,” said Dr. Kramer, the sibling researcher.
同住一个房间，也并不特别意味着什么。“他们甚至可能会共睡一张床，”研究兄妹关系的克莱默说。
Is it possible that whole generations of American families who inhabited close quarters were psychologically damaged by the experience? What changed?
是否有可能，整整几代住得很窘迫的美国家庭都因为这样的经历遭受了心理创伤呢？现在有何变化吗？
“Freud,” Dr. Kramer said, and then laughed. “We have come to have different expectations about what is appropriate for kids at different ages, for different genders.”
“弗洛伊德(Freud)，”克雷默说完笑了起来，“对于不同年龄、不同性别的孩子来说，什么是合适的，我们渐渐有了不同的看法。”
For most of the 19th century, young children would have been considered not yet gendered, said Elizabeth Cromley, an architectural historian and the author of the monograph “Sleeping Around: A History of American Beds and Bedrooms.” Around the age of 6 or 7, working-class girls and boys would begin to take up the different labor of their mothers and fathers.
在19世纪的多数时间里，幼儿并未被分性别来对待，建筑历史学家兼《：美国人的床与卧室的历史》(Sleeping Around: A History of American Beds and Bedrooms)这本专著的作者伊丽莎白·克罗姆利(Elizabeth Cromley)说。大约从6至7岁开始，工薪阶层家庭中的女孩和男孩们就开始分别为母亲和父亲分担不同的家务了。
Still, their personal space remained an afterthought. In rude Manhattan tenements, Dr. Cromley said, children slept where they could: for instance, on chairs in front of an open stove for warmth.
尽管如此，个人空间对他们而言仍是奢望。在简陋的曼哈顿公寓中，克罗姆利说，孩子们哪儿能睡就在哪儿睡：比如为了暖和，在敞开的炉子前面的椅子上睡。
And even now, solitary bedrooms remain a luxury for many city kids. The New York City Housing Authority will provide low-income renters a separate bedroom for opposite-sex siblings for families of four or more. But Sheila Stainback, an agency spokeswoman, said that most tenants understand the length of the waiting list. They take what’s available.
即使是现在，单独的卧室对许多城里孩子来说还是奢侈。纽约市住房管理局(The New York City Housing Authority)即将向低收入租房者提供一间单独的卧室，供四人或多于四人家庭中的异性同胞居住。但是一家中介机构的女发言人希拉·斯坦巴克(Sheila Stainback)说，大多数租房者都明白，这个等候清单有多长。他们能住哪儿就住哪儿了。
Wealth and social mores aside, there is a simpler explanation for why brothers and sisters rarely share a room. For decades now, American families have been building more bedrooms and generating fewer offspring to put in them.
先撇开财力和社会习俗不说，还有一个更简单的原因可以说明，为什么兄弟和姐妹很少共住一间。几十年来，美国家庭中的卧室虽然越建越多，而住进去的孩子却越生越少。
The exception would be the kind of modern blended family that Betsy Custis and her husband, Stephen Custis, have assembled with their six children in Minneapolis. It’s a “his-hers-ours” setup, Ms. Custis said. A few years ago, her husband, a health-insurance actuary, spliced their heads into the “Brady Bunch” grid for a video Christmas card.
贝琪·卡斯蒂斯(Betsy Custis)和她丈夫史蒂芬·卡斯蒂斯(Stephen Custis)这种现代混合型家庭，可能是一个例外。他们在明尼阿波利斯市(Minneapolis)和六个孩子共同生活。这是一种“他的-她的-我们的”的组合，卡斯蒂斯说。几年前，她那位从事医疗保险精算师的丈夫，把他们的头像与《布雷迪家庭》(Brady Bunch)一帧一帧地拼接起来，制作出一份视频圣诞卡。
Placing this brood into their home’s five bedrooms sounds like Sudoku: the four girls and two boys range in age from 18 months to 14 years, and there are stepsiblings and half-siblings galore. Personality is paramount. One felicitous arrangement matched Ms. Custis’s 8-year-old daughter, Bella, and her 6-year-old son, Henry.
把这一帮孩子放入他们家的五间卧室中，听起来就像一局数独游戏(Sudoku)：这四名女孩和两名男孩的年龄，从18个月到14岁不等，其中有几名继子女，以及半血亲的子女。个性成为了决定性因素。经过一番仔细推敲，卡斯蒂斯8岁的女儿贝拉(Bella)和6岁的儿子亨利(Henry)被安排在了一起。
“As long as Henry was fine dressing up as Minnie Mouse once in a while,” she said, “there were no problems.”
“只要亨利偶尔愿意扮演米妮老鼠(Minnie Mouse)，”她说，“就没有问题了。”
Ms. Custis describes herself as a “hands-on, hardworking mom.” But the children outnumber her, and they have their own ideas about rooming. Especially on the weekends, when they’re attempting to filibuster bedtime. Stepsiblings Mia, 13, and Simon, 10, may hold an overnight board-game marathon in the living room.
卡斯蒂斯把自己形容为一名“亲力亲为、勤勤恳恳的母亲”。但是孩子们的人数远多于她，而且他们对居住也都有自己的想法。尤其是周末，他们会赖着不睡觉。13岁的继女米娅(Mia)和10岁的继子西蒙(Simon)可以在客厅里下一晚上的棋。
“Oftentimes, all the kids, other than the babies, will decide that they’ll have a big sleep-out in the basement,” Ms. Custis said. “They sort of know who goes where.”
“除了小婴儿，所有孩子常常会决定，要在地下室里搞一次盛大的外宿活动，”卡斯蒂斯说，“他们似乎很清楚谁该去哪儿的问题。”
At least someone does.
至少有些孩子清楚。
So when does the slumber party have to end? That’s probably the question that most preoccupies — or bedevils — parents whose sons and daughters bunk together.
那么，这种睡衣派对必须什么时候结束呢？这可能就是最让那些儿女一起睡上下铺的父母们放不下或苦恼的问题了。
It’s a recurring conversation for Jennifer Block Martin, a writer whose 7-year-old twins, Roy and Marieke, share a room in their three-bedroom condo just north of Golden Gate Park, in San Francisco. “I can quickly count 10 families with mixed-gender shared bedrooms,” she wrote in an email.
对于作家詹妮弗·布洛克·马丁(Jennifer Block Martin)来说，这是一种反复发生的对话。她家里的一对7岁的双胞胎——罗伊(Roy)和小玛莉(Marieke)，在他们位于旧金山金门公园(Golden Gate Park)正北的三居室共管公寓中，同住一个房间。“我可以立刻数出十户人家，都有儿女共住一间卧室，”她在一封电子邮件中写道。
Her husband, Dave Martin, an information technology consultant, added by phone: “It’s not too uncommon here in the city, with real estate expenses so high. Maybe it’s more acceptable, more normal than it would be for someone with a big house, with more land.”
她的丈夫，身为信息技术顾问的戴维·马丁(Dave Martin)，在电话中补充说：“在房产开销如此之高的城市，这样的情况并不罕见。或许和那些住着大房子、有更多土地的人相比，我们对这样的情况更能接受，也更觉得正常。”
Out in the suburbs of North Brunswick, N.J., Stacey Rockman got used to questions from other parents about when her husband, a cantor, planned to yield his home office to their children. “They said, ‘Really, they’re still sharing a room, huh?’ ” Ms. Rockman recounted.
在新泽西州的北布朗士维克(North Brunswick，N.J.)，斯泰西·洛克曼(Stacey Rockman)已经习惯了被其他父母问到这个问题——她那做赞礼员（cantor，犹太教会堂中的唱诗班领唱人——译注）的丈夫，什么时候打算把他的家庭办公室让给他们的孩子。“他们说，‘真的啊，他们还住在一个房间里，是吗？’”洛克曼复述道。
Just 14 months separate her 9-year-old daughter, Bashe, and her 8-year-old son, Rafi. And the siblings have grown up doing everything together.
她9岁大的女儿芭什(Bashe)和8岁大的儿子拉菲(Rafi)，年龄只相隔14个月。这对姐弟从小就什么事都一起干。
“We kept threatening to separate them, but it really solidified their relationship,” said Ms. Rockman, a geriatric social worker. “They are best friends,” she added, although “I know they would not describe themselves as that.”
“我们总是威胁要分开他们，却让他们的关系更稳固了，”身为老年人社工的洛克曼说，“他们是最好的朋友，”她补充说，尽管“我知道他们不会这样描述自己。”
Even so, a year ago, Rafi started lobbying for his own place to have playdates. Bashe, however, “was totally stressed out about the idea,” Ms. Rockman recalled. “She said: ‘I don’t know how to sleep alone. He keeps me company.’ ”
即使如此，一年前，拉菲已开始为拥有一个可以招待自己玩伴的地方而进行游说了。然而芭什“对这个想法紧张极了，”洛克曼回忆道，“她说：‘我不知道怎样一个人睡。他一直陪着我的。’”
Not long after laying claim to his new room last summer, Rafi posted some informational signage on the door: “Get Out.” To be clear, his sister remains free to come and go, Ms. Rockman said. “That’s probably for me.”
去年夏天，在拉菲提出要一间新房间后不久，他在门上贴出了某种信息标识：“出去。”澄清一下，他的姐姐是可以来去自如的，洛克曼说，“那个标识可能只是针对我的。”
Ideally, all children would hang a sign when they no longer feel comfortable, say, changing clothes in front of a brother or sister. Yet when they do start to complain, Dr. Kramer said, “they’re probably not going to complain about the gender issue. They may say, ‘He’s taking over my space.’ Or, ‘She’s putting her clothes in my side of the closet.’ You’re going to hear more-mild complaints that parents might brush off. And maybe they should brush it off at first. But I think kids are going to be giving parents a message that this isn’t working anymore.”
理论上，所有孩子在觉得不自在的时候都会挂一个标识，比如，在哥哥或妹妹面前换衣服什么的。然而，当他们真正开始抱怨的时候，克莱默说，“他们可能不会抱怨性别的问题。他们可能会说，‘他占了我的地方。’或者，‘她把衣服放到衣橱里我那一边去了。’你还可能会听到更多被父母们置之不理的小小抱怨。他们一开始可能应该置之不理。但我想，孩子们在向父母传达一种讯息，那就是，这样做不行了。”
Allison and Max Snyder gave their parents hints, messages and howled protests that they wanted out of their joint bedroom in a 750-square-foot rent-controlled apartment on the Upper East Side, off Park Avenue.
艾莉森和马克斯·斯奈德(Allison and Max Snyder)给了父母暗示、信息，并咆哮着抗议，他们想搬出那间合住的卧室。他们的家是上东区公园大道不远处的一套750平方英尺（约70平方米）的租金管制公寓。
Their mother, Clara Hemphill, who edits the education site Insideschools.org at the New School, had a ready reply. “Once a month, we’d take a family poll on who wants to move to New Jersey,” Ms. Hemphill said.
他们的母亲，在新学院大学(New School)编辑教育网站 Insideschools.org的克拉拉·亨普希尔(Clara Hemphill)有个早已准备好的回答。“我们会每月进行一次家庭投票，决定谁要搬到新泽西去。”亨普希尔说。
Eventually, Mr. Snyder, 20, found a way to escape the bedroom: He matriculated at the University of Chicago.
最终，20岁的马克斯找到了逃离这间卧室的方法：他被芝加哥大学录取了。
He described his old space by Skype from Oaxaca, Mexico, where he is spending the semester. A custom-built bunk bed, with ladders on opposite sides, divides the room into screened and discrete “pods.” But not discreet, at least by Mr. Snyder’s account.
他正在墨西哥的瓦哈卡州(Oaxaca, Mexico)度过一学期，通过Skype，他描述了自己曾经的住处。一张两边都有梯子的定制双层床，把房间分割成了被遮挡的、截然不同的两瓣“豆荚”。但并不严密，至少斯奈德是这样说的。
“There was the awkwardness you’d expect, coming to and from the shower,” he said. “Once you’re towards the end of high school, you start having girlfriends and boyfriends. And that complicates things. It’s a time you’d like to have a private room.”
“有一种你能想得到的尴尬，就是去洗澡和洗完澡的时候，”他说，“一旦你快要高中毕业，开始有女朋友和男朋友了，那就让事情变得复杂了。那时候你就会想要个私人空间。”
Because there was no place else to go, Ms. Snyder said, she and her brother shared these experiences. “Once when he broke up with his girlfriend, we watched a documentary about mooses,” she said.
因为没有别的地方可去，作妹妹的说，她和哥哥有一样的感觉。“有一次他和女朋友分手了，我们一起看了一部关于麋鹿的纪录片，”她说。
Ms. Snyder, 18, is now in her first year at Sarah Lawrence College, where she plans to study playwriting. She already had a flair for the dramatic as a child, she said. Early adolescence, she recalled, was the time when she probably wailed most about her room, and envied her unafflicted friends. Life, it sometimes seems, is unfair.
18岁的艾莉森正在莎拉劳伦斯学院(Sarah Lawrence College)上大一，她打算在那里学习剧本创作。她从小就有一种戏剧天赋，她说。她还回忆道，青少年初期，可能正是她大为悲叹自己的住处，并嫉妒那些没受过此类折磨的朋友们的时候。生活，正如它有时候看上去的样子，是不公平的。
Sometime during this era, her brother took up jazz piano. “I don’t think I appreciated his musical talent the way I should have,” she said. His first bedroom set often started at midnight.
这段时期的某个时候，她的哥哥开始学爵士钢琴。“我觉得，我没像自己所想的那样欣赏他的音乐才华，”她说。他的第一首卧室音乐往往在半夜开始。
Mr. Snyder admitted this might have been a challenge. “I played ‘Linus and Lucy’ ” — the theme song from “Peanuts” — “ad infinitum.”
马克斯承认，这可能是个挑战。“我弹奏‘莱纳斯和露西’(Linus and Lucy)”，这是漫画《花生狗》(Peanuts)的主题曲——“永无止境”(ad infinitum)。
Both siblings praised the virtues of noise-cancelling headphones. Yet these trials were a good preparation for college, Ms. Snyder said: “I do have roommates. And I’m a lot better at dealing with compromise.” Sharing her childhood room with a sister would have been “cattier,” she said.
两兄妹对隔音耳机的好处都倍加赞赏。不过，这些努力都是相当好的大学生活预备练习，艾莉森说：“我也有室友了。我能更加轻松地应对相互妥协的问题。”如果小时候和姐妹共住一个房间，就会“狡猾得多”，她说。
Mr. Snyder now shares an apartment with a male roommate — and three women. He said, “I’m totally comfortable in that situation, where I might not have been if I had my own room.”
而马克斯现在和一位男性室友共住一套公寓——以及三名女性。他说，“我在那样的环境中很自在，但如果从小就有自己的房间，那就未必了。”
And, of course, the two return to their respective pods during breaks from school. Ms. Snyder said, “Now it’s very easy.” Still, it’s probably only a matter of time until one or both bring home serious boyfriends and girlfriends, partners, spouses. Someday, grandchildren.
当然了，放假期间，两人都会回到各自的“豆荚”里。艾莉森说，“现在就很简单了。”尽管如此，两人或其中一人把正式交往的男朋友和女朋友、伴侣、配偶带回家，可能只是早晚的事。有一天，他们可能还会带孙辈回来。
They could always share a room.
他们可以一直分享一个房间。