Joel Pavelski, 27, isn’t the first person who has lied to his boss to scam some time off work.
27岁的乔尔·帕夫斯基(Joel Pavelski)不是第一个跟老板撒谎以骗取休假时间的人。
But inventing a friend’s funeral, when in fact he was building a treehouse — then blogging and tweeting about it to be sure everyone at the office noticed? That feels new.
但是，谎称是去参加朋友的葬礼，实际上是去建造树屋，然后又在博客和Twitter上讲述此事，确保办公室所有的人都知道——这挺新鲜的。
Such was a recent management challenge at Mic, a five-year-old website in New York that is vying to become a leading news source created by and for millennials. Recent headlines include “Don’t Ban Muslims, Ban Hoverboards” and “When Men Draw Vaginas.”
这是已成立5年的纽约网站Mic最近遇到的管理挑战。该网站努力想成为由千禧一代创立、为千禧一代服务的主要新闻来源。该网站最近的新闻标题包括“不要禁止穆斯林，而要禁止悬浮滑板”和“男人画的阴道什么样”。
“There’s 80 million millennials; we focus on the 40 that went to college,” said Chris Altchek, Mic’s 28-year-old chief executive.
Mic网站28岁的首席执行官克里斯·奥特切克(Chris Altchek)说：“千禧一代共有8000万人，我们关注的是上过大学的那4000万人。”
But he is still working out how to manage many of the traits associated with his fellow millennials: a sense of entitlement, a tendency to overshare on social media, and frankness verging on insubordination.
不过，他还在思考如何管理千禧一代同辈们的一些特点：具有很强的权利意识；过度喜欢在社交媒体上分享；坦率到藐视上级的程度。
Mic’s staff of 106 looks a lot like its target demographic: trim 20-somethings, with beards on the men and cute outfits on the women, who end every sentence with an exclamation point and use the word “literally” a lot.
Mic的106名员工跟它的目标用户很像：全都是20多岁，男人留胡子，女人穿可爱的服装，每句话都以感叹号结尾，很喜欢用“literally”（意为“毫不夸张地”）这个词。
Their crowded newsroom on Hudson Street has an aggressively playful vibe, like a middle-school fraternity house. Some ride hoverboards into the kitchen for the free snacks. Others wield Nerf dart guns or use a megaphone for ad hoc announcements. Dino, a white Maltese terrier owned by the lead designer, snuffles between desks.
他们的新闻编辑部位于哈德逊街，拥挤而热闹，就像中学的兄弟会会所。有些人滑着悬浮滑板去厨房拿免费小吃。还有些人装备有Nerf飞镖枪，或拿着大喇叭发表特别宣言。主设计师的白色马耳他小猎犬Dino在办公桌之间四处嗅着。
Mr. Altchek is proud of the freewheeling office culture. “It helps us to have everyone speak out and best ideas rise to the top,” he said. “What that can feel like or sound like is rudeness. But I’d rather have a lot of people speaking their minds than a very controlled environment.”
奥特切克为这种随心所欲的办公室文化感到自豪。他说：“它让每个人都能表达自己，让最好的想法浮出水面。可能感觉上或听起来有点无礼。但我宁愿让很多人表达自己的想法，也不想要一个严格控制的环境。”
But running an office made up exclusively of millennials, it turns out, is not without its snags. His philosophy was tested when Mr. Pavelski, Mic’s director of programming, requested a week off, ostensibly to attend a wake back home in Wisconsin. “I went to talk to Joel and said, ‘So sorry about your loss, take as much time as you need,’” Mr. Altchek said.
不过，结果证明，管理一个完全由千禧一代组成的公司并不是没有麻烦。他的理念遇到了挑战：Mic的程序总监帕夫斯基要求休假一周，说是回威斯康星州老家参加一个守灵活动。“我对乔尔说，‘我为你丧失亲朋感到难过，你需要呆多久就待多久，” 奥特切克说。
Then, several days later, he noticed Mr. Pavelski tweet a link to Medium, a popular blog for cathartic, personal essays. In a post titled, “How to Lose Your Mind and Build a Treehouse,” Mr. Pavelski wrote about feeling burned out at work and wanting to rebuild a childhood treehouse as therapy. The first line read, “I said that I was leaving town for a funeral, but I lied.”
几天后，他注意到帕夫斯基在Twitter上发了个链接，那个链接是他在关于个人生活的宣泄性热门博客Medium上发的一个帖子，标题是“如何失去理智去建树屋”。帕夫斯基在帖子中谈到工作让自己精疲力竭，想通过重建儿时的树屋来调节情绪。第一句话是：“我说自己是去别的城市参加葬礼，但我说的是谎话。”
“I was sort of taken aback,” Mr. Altchek said. “It’s not acceptable to be lied to.”
“我大吃一惊，”奥特切克说，“我不能接受别人骗我。”
In a disciplinary meeting the next day, Mr. Pavelski’s supervisor acknowledged that he had been working grueling hours, so he was given another chance. Still, Mr. Altchek wanted to send a message. “Our feedback to him was, ‘This is not a three-strike policy, it’s a two-strike policy,’” he said.
在第二天的纪律会议上，帕夫斯基的上司确认，帕夫斯基前一阵的确是长时间连续工作，十分疲惫，所以他得到了一次改过的机会。不过，奥特切克想传递一个信息。“我们给他的反馈是，‘这不是事不过三，而是下不为例’，”他说。
Mr. Pavelski is still on his first strike. But even in an office that is tolerant of youthful boundary pushing, some millennial behavior can cross the line.
帕夫斯基是初犯。不过，即使是在容忍年轻人打破界线的公司，千禧一代的有些行为依然显得有些过分。
Mr. Altchek recalled a companywide meeting last September that coincided with the religious holidays Yom Kippur and Eid al-Adha. An Anglo-Pakistani employee asked why management had announced a flexible time off policy for the Jewish holiday, but not for its Muslim counterpart.
奥特切克想起去年9月的一次公司全体大会，那天正好是宗教节日赎罪日和宰牲节。一位英格兰巴基斯坦裔员工问道，为什么管理层宣布，考虑到这个犹太节日，所以那天实行弹性上下班，但是没提另外一个穆斯林节日。
“So I told her, ‘Great point, being inclusive and respectful of all religious affiliations is incredibly important to Mic,’” Mr. Altchek said.
“所以我对她说，‘你说得对，包容和尊重所有的宗教信仰对Mic非常重要，’”奥特切克说。
Afterward, in front of a smaller group, he was approached by a younger, entry-level employee who said that there were two words missing from his reply. “I was a bit confused and said, ‘O.K., what were those?’” he recalled. “And she said: ‘I’m sorry. I didn’t hear an apology.’”
之后，在更少一群人面前，一个更年轻的最低级别的员工说，他的回答里少了一句话。奥特切克回忆说，“我有点迷惑，问道，‘好吧，少了什么？’她说：‘你没说对不起。我没听见你道歉。 ’”
Mr. Altchek did not think such a comment belonged in a workplace, especially his.
奥特切克没想到工作场所会出现这样的评论，尤其是在他的公司里。
“I was a little taken aback by the tone, but I told her I would address it and make sure the person who asked the question wasn’t offended by the answer,” he said. “You have to control your temper. It was in front of a bunch of people, which was probably better, because I was forced to be calm.”
“她的语气有点让我吃惊，不过我对她说，我会处理这件事，确保提出这个问题的人没有觉得我的回答冒犯了他，”他说，“我必须控制自己的情绪。我面对着一群人，这对我来说很可能是好事，因为这使我必须保持平静。”
That employee is no longer with the company. (Mr. Altchek said she was let go for “performance-related issues.”)
那名员工已经离开这家公司了（奥特切克说她因为“业绩方面的原因”被解雇的）。
A sense of entitlement is not the only stereotype attached to millennials in the workplace.
有很强的权利意识不是人们对职场千禧一代唯一的固有观念。
“Entitled, lazy, narcissistic and addicted to social media,” according to CNBC. “They Don’t Need Trophies but They Want Reinforcement,” Forbes wrote. “Many millennials want to make the world a better place, and the future of work lies in inspiring them,” Fast Company proclaimed.
CNBC电视台对千禧一代的评价是：“重视自己的权利，懒惰，自恋，痴迷社交媒体。”《福布斯》杂志(Forbes)的评价是：“他们不需要奖杯，但他们想要鼓励。”《快公司》杂志(Fast Company)的评价是：“很多千禧一代想把这个世界变得更好，工作的未来取决于激励他们。”
Older managers confused by why millennials like to Snapchat with co-workers, or don’t want to pay their dues with grunt work, had better get used to it. Last year, millennials edged out Generation X (35 to 50 years old in 2015) as the largest share of the labor force, according to the Pew Research Center. What’s more, millennials have also surpassed baby boomers.
有些年长的管理者不明白千禧一代为什么喜欢在Snapchat上跟同事交流，为什么不想经受简单繁重工作的磨练，不过他们可能需要适应这种情况。因为，据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的调查，去年，千禧一代取代X一代（2015年年龄在35岁至50岁的人）成为美国劳动力市场上最大的一部分。而且，千禧一代的人数也超过了婴儿潮一代。
Joan Kuhl, 36, who founded Why Millennials Matter, a consulting firm that advises employers like Goldman Sachs on hiring and retaining recent college graduates, said that what is needed is more familiarity.
36岁的琼·库尔(Joan Kuhl)创立了一家咨询公司，名叫“为什么千禧一代很重要”(Why Millennials Matter)。该公司为高盛集团(Goldman Sachs)等公司就雇用和留住刚毕业的大学生提供咨询。库尔说，公司需要更了解他们。
“We tend to publicize these outrageous acts of defiance, versus emphasizing the majority that I run into and work with, who are very mission focused and value based,” she said.
“我们往往会宣传一些粗暴的藐视行为，而不是强调，我们碰见和共事的大部分千禧一代工作很专心，看重价值观，”她说。
Ms. Kuhl educates her clients on the quirks of millennials, and why a 21-year-old sees nothing wrong with oversharing. Millennials are pushed to create a “strong personal brand” to land a job, Ms. Kuhl said, so asking them to tone it down once they are employed sends “a lot of mixed messages.”
库尔帮客户们了解千禧一代的怪癖，给他们解释为什么21岁的人不觉得过度分享有什么问题。库尔说，千禧一代为了找到工作，不得不树立“鲜明的个人品牌”，所以如果你让他们一有工作就马上低调，“他们会感到不知所措”。
Still, even Ms. Kuhl has been taken aback by some of the millennials in her office. She remembered an intern who ate a tuna fish sandwich during a 10 a.m. meeting with very senior colleagues. When mildly rebuked afterward, the intern replied, “Well, you said to be myself, and I was hungry.”
不过，就连库尔也被自己公司里某些千禧一代的行为感到震惊。她记得有个实习生在上午10点吃着金枪鱼三明治和很高级别的同事开会。之后，当库尔温和地告诫那名实习生时，后者回答说：“呃，你让我自便的，我当时很饿呀。”
So imagine a workplace where all are in their 20s.
所以，你想象一下一个公司全是20多岁的人是什么感觉。
Mr. Altchek founded Mic in 2011 (then operating as PolicyMic) with Jake Horowitz, now 28, his former classmate from the Horace Mann School in New York.
2011年，奥特切克和纽约霍勒斯曼中学(Horace Mann School)的同班同学杰克·霍罗威茨(Jake Horowitz，今年28岁)共同创立Mic（当时叫PolicyMic）。
Today, Mr. Horowitz reports from the field (such as the Syrian migrant crisis from the beaches of Greece, and interviewing President Obama in the White House), while Mr. Altchek runs the business out of a 15,000-square-foot converted warehouse in the Hudson Square neighborhood.
如今，霍罗威茨是现场报道记者（比如在希腊海滩上报道叙利亚的移民危机，在白宫采访奥巴马总统），而奥特切克在哈德逊广场(Hudson Square)附近一个仓库改造而成的1.5万平方英尺的办公室里经营这家公司。
Millennial news has significant competition for eyeballs. According to the data provider comScore, Mic had about 19 million unique visitors in January, compared with 79.7 million for BuzzFeed, with five other competitors falling in between. (A Mic spokeswoman pointed out that rivals like Vice Media operate multiple branded sites that roll into their comScore number, whereas Mic relies on just one site.)
关于千禧一代的新闻网站在争夺访问量方面竞争激烈。据数据提供商comScore称，今年1月，Mic拥有约1900万独特的访客，BuzzFeed的访客有7970万，中间还有5个竞争者（Mic的一位女发言人指出，Vice Media等竞争对手运营多家网站，comScore的统计数据里包括所有这些网站的访客，而Mic只有一个网站）。
At Mic, part of the growth strategy is not just airing, but blaring, its business on social media.
Mic的一个增长策略是在社交媒体上喧闹地宣传自己的业务（不只是普通的宣传）。
Hence there are office conversations held on Twitter, and the blurring of personal and professional boundaries, such as when Mr. Altchek broadcast his dental examination on Periscope, a live streaming video app.
所以，他们在Twitter上进行办公室对话，打破个人生活和工作的界线，比如奥特切克在实时流媒体视频应用程序Periscope上直播自己检查牙齿。
Indeed, several Mic staffers cited the “say anything” office culture as one of the things they loved most about working there.
的确，Mic的几名员工表示，他们喜欢在这里工作的一个重要原因是“想说什么说什么”的办公室文化。
“People are here from morning to night, and we don’t want to leave,” said Elizabeth Plank, 28, a high-energy reporter who lives in the East Village and hosted a video series called “Flip the Script,” which seeks to challenge assumptions like, “What Happens When a Lady ‘Manspreads.’”
“我们从早到晚呆在这儿，不想离开，”28岁的伊丽莎白·普兰克(Elizabeth Plank)说。她是一名充满活力的记者，住在纽约东村，主持一个名叫《快速浏览广播稿》(Flip the Script)的系列视频，试图挑战一些假设，比如“如果女人像男人那样大爷式占座会怎么样”(What Happens When a Lady ‘Manspreads.’)。
Ms. Plank contrasted her freedoms at Mic to her previous job at a feminist nonprofit organization, which she regarded as exemplifying the outdated work practices of older people.
普兰克把自己在Mic的自由与之前在一家女权主义非盈利机构的情况做了对比。她认为那家机构是老一代人过时工作方式的典型代表。
“We called people on phones and we — I don’t know — we faxed people,” Ms. Plank said, sounding exasperated. “And we had to mail things. And no one really took my opinion into consideration.”
“我们给别人打电话，我们——简直不可思议——我们给别人发传真，”普兰克恼火地说，“我们还得邮寄东西。没人认真地考虑过我的意见。”
At Mic, she was able to dabble in different jobs and negotiate grandiose titles like “executive social editor.” Often, she prefers the theater of tweeting back and forth with the editor she sits next to rather than speaking face to face.
在Mic，她能涉猎不同的工作，讨论自己能否担任“执行社交编辑”这种高级职位。她更喜欢和坐在身旁的编辑在Twitter上发帖子回应对方，而不喜欢面对面交谈。
“If you can be young at heart, I think it makes your personal, and not only your work life, better,” added Ms. Plank, who left for Vox last month after two and a half years at Mic.
“我觉得，内心年轻会让工作和个人生活变得更好，”普兰克补充说。上个月，在Mic工作两年半之后，她跳槽去了Vox。
Mic apparently isn’t a good fit for everyone. Madhulika Sikka, who left NPR last year to join Mic as executive editor, announced earlier this week that she was leaving the website, saying on Twitter that she was “ready to take on something new.”
Mic明显不是适合所有人。马杜莉卡·西卡(Madhulika Sikka)去年离开美国全国公共广播电台(NPR)，来Mic担任执行编辑。本周初，她宣布要离开该网站，她在Twitter上说，她“已准备好尝试新事物”。
Perhaps because of this very culture of workplace-as-reality-show, Mr. Pavelski, the prevaricating treehouse builder, remains notably unchastened.
也许正是因为这种把工作场所当成真人秀的文化，所以谎称参加葬礼实际上去建树屋的帕夫斯基明显仍未受束缚。
“Maybe this is because I’m young, but, like, I don’t think that there is a lot about my personal life that I wouldn’t want to incorporate into what I’m doing professionally,” he said. “The reason I wrote that essay in the first place was about catharsis, and I wanted to walk through my thought process and figure out what was going on with me.”
“这也许是因为我年轻，但是，我觉得我想把个人生活的很多内容融入工作，”他说，“我写那篇文章首先是为了宣泄，我想回顾自己的思考过程，弄清自己的情况。”
The logic of that may be more apparent to his age group.
也许，他的同龄人更能理解他的逻辑。
“The one thing I don’t want people to mistake is that we’re serious about this,” he added. “And that we’re taking over. That is all.”
他补充说，“我想让人们明白，我们是认真的。我们正在接手。仅此而已。”