A THREE-BEDROOM APARTMENT WITH SEA VIEWS IN SENTOSA COVE
圣淘沙湾(SENTOSA COVE)海景公寓，带三间卧室
$5.5 MILLION
550万美元（约合人民币3619万元）
This three-bedroom four-bath condominium is on the seventh floor of the Seascape complex in Sentosa Cove, a 10-year-old master-planned development built around a 400-berth marina. The project is part of Sentosa Island, a 1,236-acre leisure development with resorts, golf courses, beaches and a Universal Studios theme park, about a 15-minute drive from the center of Singapore.
这套共管公寓带有三间卧室、四间浴室，在圣淘沙湾涛源湾(Seascape)楼盘的七层。圣淘沙湾是一个经过总体规划的开发项目，它围绕一个400泊位的游艇码头而建，至今已有10年历史，是圣淘沙岛(Sentosa Island)的一部分。圣淘沙岛占地1236英亩（约合500公顷），是一个休闲娱乐开发项目，包含度假村、高尔夫球场、海滩和一座环球影城(Universal Studios)主题公园，距离新加坡市中心大约15分钟车程。
Seascape, which was completed in 2012, has 151 apartments in two eight-story buildings, with an underground parking garage and a landscaped “forest pool.” The complex has unobstructed panoramic sea views, said Vienn Leow, senior manager with Knight Frank Singapore, the real estate agency listing the property.
涛源湾建成于2012年，包含两栋八层建筑，共计151套公寓，带有一个地下停车库和一片风景优美的“林池”(forest pool)。据该房产的挂牌经纪商——莱坊新加坡(Knight Frank Singapore)的高级经理维埃纳·廖(Vienn Leow)表示，此楼盘坐拥一览无余的全景海景。
This 2,164-square-foot apartment has a private elevator. The entranceway leads to a living area with marble floors and floor-to-ceiling windows. Sliding doors open to a broad half-circle balcony with views of the cove and nearby islands.
这套2164平方英尺（约合201平方米）的公寓带有一个私人电梯。入口通向起居区。起居区铺有大理石地板，设有落地窗。滑门通往一座敞亮的半圆形阳台，阳台坐拥海湾和附近岛屿的景观。
A dining area off the living room features a cooking area, separate from the kitchen, with an oven, a wine cooler, a sink and a counter for serving. The kitchen has a refrigerator, a dishwasher and a laundry area. A separate staff room with its own bathroom is off the kitchen.
用餐区在起居室旁边，其特色在于设有烹饪区，独立于厨房，配置了一台烤箱、一台酒柜、一个水槽和一个上菜柜台。厨房里配置了一台冰箱、一台洗碗机和一个洗衣区。厨房旁边有一间单独的工人室，里面带有浴室。
The master bedroom is across the hallway from the dining room and kitchen. This bedroom has hardwood floors, its own balcony and a private bathroom with a separate bathtub and shower.
主卧室在餐厅和厨房的对面，中间隔着走廊。这间卧室铺有硬木地板，带自己的阳台和浴室，浴室内设有单独的浴缸和淋浴间。
The hallway leads to two more bedrooms and two bathrooms. One of the bedrooms has private access to a bathroom. Both bedrooms open onto a balcony with views of the surrounding neighborhood.
走廊通向另外两间卧室和两间浴室。其中一间卧室通往一间私人浴室。两间卧室都通向一座阳台，阳台坐拥周边的社区景观。
The furniture is not included in the sales price, although fixtures such as lights, curtains and appliances are, Ms. Leow said. Building amenities include a workout room, manicured gardens and an ocean terrace for residents. A paved trail runs along the waterfront.
维埃纳·廖表示，售价不包家具，但包固定附着物，比如灯具、窗帘、家电。建筑配套设施包括一个健身房、多片修剪整齐的花园、一座可供居民使用的滨海露台。海边铺有一条步道。
The building is within walking distance of many of Sentosa Cove’s facilities, including restaurants and the marina. It is about a 10-minute drive to VivoCity, one of the largest shopping malls in Singapore, and about 15 minutes to Orchard Road, Singapore’s best-known shopping and entertainment district. Singapore’s international airport is 30 minutes away.
圣淘沙湾的许多设施都在该楼盘的步行距离之内，包括餐厅和游艇码头。从该楼盘出发，驾车约10分钟可达怡丰城(VivoCity)——新加坡最大的购物中心之一，约15分钟可达乌节路(Orchard Road)——新加坡最著名的购物和娱乐区，30分钟可达新加坡国际机场。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
Singapore was one of the hottest — and most expensive — international markets from 2008 to 2013, when prices increased almost 80 percent, according to government data. But prices have slid in the last two years, after the government imposed restrictions on mortgages and placed additional taxes on purchases by foreigners to cool the market.
从2008至2013年，新加坡是最热门也是最昂贵的国际市场，根据政府的数据，其房价上涨了近80％。不过，近两年房价已经下滑，因为政府对抵押贷款施加了限制，并对外国人的购房加征了税款，以便给市场降温。
Prices fell 4 percent in 2014 and are expected to end 2015 down another 4 percent, according to analysts. The number of sales of private residential units fell to 3,496 in the first six months of 2015, a 21 percent drop from the same period a year earlier, according to JLL Singapore, a property consultancy.
据分析师表示，房价在2014年下跌了4％，2015年底的数据应该还会再降4％。根据地产咨询公司仲量联行新加坡(JLL Singapore)的数据，在2015年的前6个月，私人住宅单元的销量下降到了3496套，比上年同期减少了21％。
Sales have been increasing in recent months, but the number of transactions in November was still down 76 percent from the peak in 2010, said Samuel Eyo, managing director of Singapore Christie’s International Real Estate.
新加坡佳士得国际地产(Singapore Christie’s International Real Estate)董事总经理塞缪尔·埃约(Samuel Eyo)表示，近几个月来，销量一直呈上升趋势，但与2010年的高峰期相比，2015年11月的交易量仍下降了76％。
There is still a large supply of empty new homes, completed during the building boom, which is depressing prices, according to agents. The vacancy rate for new homes was almost 8 percent at the end of the third quarter, according to data tracked by the Urban Redevelopment Authority, a government agency.
地产经纪商表示，目前仍有大量新房空置，因而抑制了房价。这些新房是在建设热潮期间完工的。根据政府机构市区重建局(Urban Redevelopment Authority)跟踪的数据，在2015年第三季度末，新房空置率已近8％。
Sentosa Cove, which targets international buyers, is one of the neighborhoods where prices have declined “significantly,” Mr. Eyo said. In some projects, prices are down more than 35 percent from the peak, he said.
埃约表示，圣淘沙湾是一个以国际购房者为目标客户的社区，也是房价已经“暴跌”的社区之一。他还指出，有些开发项目的房价比峰值下跌了35％以上。
But Sentosa remains one of the most expensive neighborhoods in Singapore. Apartments in the Seascape complex, where this apartment is, typically sell for $5 million to $5.3 million, Ms. Leow said. She was not able to say how many have been sold there.
然而，圣淘沙依然是新加坡房价最高的社区之一。维埃纳·廖表示，在涛源湾楼盘，也就是本文所述房源的所在地，公寓的一般售价为500万至530万美元（约合人民币3289万至3486万元）。至于该楼盘已有多少房源售出，她表示无法透露。
Transactions are down in Sentosa Cove in the last year, but the steep discounts are starting to attract more interest from potential buyers, agents said. There is also speculation that the government may ease some of the cooling measures in the future, which would spur sales.
经纪商表示，去年圣淘沙湾交易低迷，但是高额折扣正开始吸引潜在购房者的兴趣。还有人猜测，政府可能会放松部分楼市降温措施，此举将刺激销售。
WHO BUYS IN SINGAPORE
谁在新加坡买房
At the peak of the market, the majority of international buyers in Singapore were investors looking to quickly resell for a profit, agents say. Chinese were the most active international buyers, followed by buyers from Malaysia and Indonesia.
经纪商表示，在市场的高峰期，多数在新加坡置业的国际购房者都是投资者，他们寻求快速转售，从中赚取差价。中国人是最活跃的国际购房者，其次是马来西亚和印度尼西亚购房者。
But today local residents are the dominant buyers. The taxes added by the government have discouraged international investors, said Donald Han, managing director of the Singapore office of Chestertons, a real estate company. “These investors can look elsewhere, and a lot have gone into London, Tokyo, Sydney and Melbourne,” Mr. Han said.
不过现在，当地居民成为主要的购房者。地产公司Chestertons新加坡办事处的常务董事唐纳德·韩（Donald Han，音译）表示，政府的征税让国际投资者望而却步。他指出，“这些投资者可以把目光转向其他地方，很多人已经进军伦敦、东京、悉尼和墨尔本。”
But the high taxes are not discouraging some wealthy buyers, who are attracted by Singapore’s stable economy and international business. Singapore Christie’s participated in the sale of a townhouse in central Singapore in the third quarter of 2015 to a Hong Kong resident for 21 million Singapore dollars, or about $14.9 million, Mr. Eyo said.
不过，一些富裕的购房者并没有在高税额面前打退堂鼓，吸引他们的，是新加坡稳定的经济和国际化的商业环境。埃约表示，在2015年第三季度，新加坡佳士得参与了新加坡市中心一座联排别墅的销售，这座别墅以21万新元——约合1490万美元（约合人民币9800万元）的价格卖给了一位香港居民。
According to a Knight Frank forecast in its latest annual wealth report, Singapore will see the world’s fastest growth in the number of super rich individuals — with more than $30 million in assets — within the next 10 years, surpassing Hong Kong, New York, London and Mumbai.
莱坊在其最新的年度财富报告中预测，在未来10年之内，新加坡超级富豪的增速将跃居世界之首，超过香港、纽约、伦敦和孟买。所谓超级富豪，就是指资产超过3000万美元（约合人民币2亿元）的人。
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
Singapore is a transparent market, with most laws following the British legal system, Mr. Han said.
唐纳德·韩表示，新加坡是一个透明的市场，大部分法律遵循英国的法律体系。
Property is split into two categories: landed properties, which are typically single-family homes; and non-landed homes, such as condominiums and apartments. Non-Singapore residents cannot buy landed property in Singapore without special approval, except in Sentosa Cove, the one area where foreigners are allowed to buy both landed and non-landed homes.
当地房产被分成两类：一类是有地房产，一般是单户住宅；另一类是无地住宅，比如共管公寓和公寓。非新加坡居民未经专项审批，不能在新加坡购置有地房产，圣淘沙湾例外，在那里，无论是有地住宅还是无地住宅，外国人都可以购买。
Mortgages are typically available for up to 80 percent of the sales price of a buyer’s first purchase of a property; the loan-to-value drops subsequently. For instance, it is capped at 50 percent for a second purchase.
抵押贷款额通常可高达购房者首套房售价的80％；对于非首套房，贷款额在房价中的比例逐级递减。比方说，二套房的贷款额比例上限是50％。
WEBSITES
网站
Official Singapore tourism site: yoursingapore.com
新加坡官方旅游网站：yoursingapore.com
Sentosa Island site: sentosa.com
圣淘沙岛网站：sentosa.com
Singapore Land Authority: sla.gov.sg
新加坡土地管理局：sla.gov.sg
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
语言和货币
English, Malay, Mandarin and Tamil; Singapore dollar (1 Singapore dollar = $0.71)
英语、马来语、华语和泰米尔语；新加坡元（1新加坡元= 0.71美元，约合人民币4.7元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
For non-Singapore residents, various fees and taxes can add as much as 18 percent to the price of a home in Singapore. For sellers, there is no capital gains tax on the profit, but there is an added stamp duty ranging from 4 percent to 16 percent if a property is resold within four years of the purchase.
对于非新加坡居民来说，在新加坡买房，各项税费加起来可能会多达房价的18％。对于售房者来说，他们不需要因为买卖差价而承担资本利得税，但是如果一套房产在购入之后的四年内转售，则会产生额外的印花税，税率从4％到16％不等。
An annual property tax is assessed based on the annual value of the property, calculated by the potential rental revenue, and whether it is owner-occupied or offered as a rental. The annual tax on this apartment is likely about $5,000 a year if it is owner-occupied, Ms. Leow estimated. There is a monthly building maintenance fee of about $695 (980 Singapore dollars). Nonresidents are charged a 20 percent tax on net rental income.
每年物业税的估算，是基于该房产的年值，计算年值，一方面要看潜在租金收入，另一方面要看房产是自住还是出租。维埃纳·廖估计，如果是自住，此公寓的年税很可能在一年5000美元（约合人民币3.29万元）左右。每月建筑维护费约为695美元（980新元，约合人民币4570元）。非居民需要按净租金收入承担20％的税。
CONTACT
联系方式
Vienn Leow, Knight Frank Singapore, (011) 65 9668 5572; knightfrank.com.sg
Vienn Leow, Knight Frank Singapore, (011) 65 9668 5572; knightfrank.com.sg