WASHINGTON — In a high-profile speech to Army cadets last month, President Obama tried to move beyond America’s tumultuous adventures in Iraq and Afghanistan with a new doctrine all but forswearing the use of military power except in the most dire of circumstances.
华盛顿——上月，奥巴马总统对军校学员发表了一番高调的讲话。他试图要让美国摆脱对伊拉克和阿富汗的混乱干预，提出了新的军事准则，几乎是在发誓放弃使用军事力量，除非发生十分严峻的情况。
Barely two weeks later, Mr. Obama has already found himself in those circumstances and seems on the verge of ordering the American military to intervene once more in Iraq. While ruling out ground troops to save the beleaguered Baghdad government from insurgents, Mr. Obama is considering a range of options, including airstrikes by drones and piloted aircraft.
然而，过了不到两周，奥巴马就发现这种情况已经摆在了面前，自己似乎处在要下令美军再次介入伊拉克的边缘。虽然排除了使用地面部队来解救深受武装分子困扰的巴格达政府这一选择，但奥巴马正在考虑其他各种方案，比如派遣无人机和有人驾驶的战机进行空袭等。
The possible return to Iraq, even in limited form, underscores just how much that forlorn land has shaped Mr. Obama’s presidency. It defined his first campaign for the White House, when his opposition to the war powered his candidacy. It defined his foreign policy as he resolved to pull out of Iraq and keep out of places like Syria. And it defined the legacy he hoped to leave as he imagined history books remembering him for ending America’s overseas wars.
重返伊拉克的可能性，即便是以有限的方式重返，也恰恰突显出这片荒凉之地对塑造奥巴马总统任期起到的作用。伊拉克左右了他的首次总统竞选：对这场战争的反对强化了他的候选地位。这也界定了他的外交政策：他决心要撤出伊拉克，并且不卷入像叙利亚这样的地方。这还决定了他希望留下的政治遗产：他设想，历史书会以他结束了美国在海外的战事而记住他。
Yet as much as he wanted Iraq in the rearview mirror, the swift march toward Baghdad by Islamist extremists calling themselves the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, has forced him to reconsider his approach. As much as he wanted to leave the fate of Iraq to the Iraqis themselves, he concluded that the United States still has a stake in avoiding the collapse of a state it occupied for more than eight years at the cost of nearly 4,500 American lives.
然而，尽管奥巴马极其渴望把伊拉克抛到脑后，但自称伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的伊斯兰主义极端分子迅速向巴格达挺近，迫使他重新考虑应对措施。虽然非常希望能将伊拉克的命运交给伊拉克人自己负责，但他却不得不得出结论，美国的利益依然要求它避免一个被自己占领8年多并为此付出了近4500名美军将士生命的国家陷入崩溃。
“We have an interest in making sure that a group like I.S.I.L., which is a vicious organization and has been able to take advantage of the chaos in Syria, that they don’t get a broader foothold,” Mr. Obama said on Friday, using an alternative name for the group, the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant. “There are dangers of fierce sectarian fighting if, for example, the terrorist organizations try to overrun sacred Shia sites, which could trigger Shia-Sunni conflicts that could be very hard to stamp out.”
奥巴马上周五称，“我们需要确保，像ISIL这样一个从叙利亚战乱中得利的邪恶组织不能再取得更稳固的地位。”他采用的是ISIS的别名“伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国”（Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant，缩写ISIL）。“现在有爆发激烈的宗派冲突的危险，比如恐怖组织试图摧毁什叶派圣地，就可能会导致什叶派和逊尼派之间发生难以消解的冲突。”
Stepping back, he cited the United States’ own tortured history in Iraq and the desire not to let American efforts there go to waste. “We have enormous interests there,” he added, “and obviously our troops and the American people and the American taxpayers made huge investments and sacrifices in order to give the Iraqis the opportunity to chart a better course, a better destiny.”
他回忆过去，提到了美国在伊拉克的痛苦历史，希望能不让美国在那里的努力付之东流。然后说道，“我们在那里有很多利益。显然，为了让伊拉克得以走上更好的道路、拥有一个更好的未来，我们的部队、美国民众及纳税人做出了巨大的投入和牺牲。”
Still, he insisted that Iraq’s leaders have to make the sorts of compromises that will bring stability to their country, and stressed that he would not let their problems consume the United States all over again. “We’re not going to allow ourselves to be dragged back into a situation in which, while we’re there, we’re keeping a lid on things,” but Iraq’s own political leaders are failing to address the underlying fissures dividing the society.
不过，他坚持要求伊拉克领导人必须做出能给自己的国家带来稳定的让步，并强调他不会再让他们的问题再次拖累美国。“我们不会任由自己被拖回那种局面——我们在那里控制局势”，但伊拉克自己的政治领导人却不能应对导致社会分裂的根本分歧。
Mr. Obama has long been criticized by Republicans for pulling troops out of Iraq at the end of 2011 without leaving behind a small residual force. That was a timetable originally agreed to by President George W. Bush, and Iraqi leaders at the time would not agree to immunity provisions insisted on by the Pentagon, but critics argued that Mr. Obama should have tried harder to extend the American presence.
长期以来，奥巴马一直因2011年年底从伊拉克撤军却未能留下一支小规模的驻军而备受共和党人的指责。这一时间表最初由前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)达成，而且当时的伊拉克领导人不同意五角大楼坚持要求的豁免条款。但批评人士认为，奥巴马本应更努力地尝试延长美国在伊拉克的驻军时间。
Moreover, they said the president has not done enough to pressure Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to reconcile with the Sunni minority, and they said Mr. Obama’s failure to do more to help moderate rebels in next-door Syria has emboldened more radical Islamist forces who have spilled over into Iraq.
此外，他们表示，在向伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒· 马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)施压、要求他与逊尼派少数派和解这一点上，奥巴马做得不够，并且认为，他未能采取更多措施来帮助伊拉克邻国叙利亚境内的温和反对派，从而给更激进的伊斯兰主义力量壮了胆，而后者已经蔓延到了伊拉克。
Not only has the latest eruption in Iraq revived those criticisms, but it has also exposed the president’s plan for withdrawing from Afghanistan to further questions. Mr. Obama announced last month that he would end the combat mission there by the end of this year, leaving behind 9,800 troops, all of whom would leave by 2016.
伊拉克局势最近的突然恶化不仅让这些批评声再起，还让奥巴马从阿富汗撤军的计划受到进一步质疑。奥巴马上月宣布，他将在今年年底之前结束在阿富汗的作战任务，届时留下的9800名士兵也将在2016年全部撤离。
Republicans on Friday urged Mr. Obama to act decisively in Iraq, questioning why he wants to take several days to decide. “We shouldn’t have boots on the ground, but we need to be hitting these columns of terrorists marching on Baghdad with drones now,” said Representative Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
共和党人周五敦促奥巴马在伊拉克问题上果断行事，质疑他为何要用几天时间做决定。“我们不应在那里部署地面部队，但我们必须现在就用无人机打击那些向巴格达挺近的恐怖分子，”众议院外交事务委员会(House Foreign Affairs Committee)主席、来自加利福尼亚州的共和党人埃德·罗伊斯(Ed Royce)说。
Representative Howard (Buck) McKeon of California, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said the president needed a broader strategy for containing the threat in the region. “There are no quick-fix solutions to this crisis, and I will not support a one-shot strike that looks good for the cameras but has no enduring effect,” he said. He added that the president should consider firing his national security team.
众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)主席、同样来自加州的霍华德·“巴克”·麦基翁(Howard [Buck] McKeon)表示，为了遏制该地区的威胁，总统需要拿出更宏观的统一战略。他说，“这场危机没有一蹴而就的解决方案，我不会支持一场一次性的打击。这种打击可能看上去很上镜，可是没有持久的效果。”他还说，总统应该考虑炒掉他手下的国家安全团队。
Liberal activists were more vehement. “For the last 12 years, Iraq has been Bush and Cheney’s war,” said Becky Bond, the political director for an activist group called Credo. “But if the president decides to double down on George W. Bush’s disastrous decision to invade Iraq by launching a new round of bombing strikes, Iraq will become Barack Obama’s war.”
自由派活动人士的态度则更为激烈。名为“信条”(Credo)的活动团体的政治主管贝姬·邦德(Becky Bond)说，“过去12年里，伊拉克战争一直是布什和切尼的战争。然而，如果奥巴马总统发动新一轮轰炸，那么他就是在附和乔治·W·布什做出的出兵伊拉克的灾难性决定，而伊拉克战争就会成为贝拉克·奥巴马的战争。”
That would be the last thing Mr. Obama would want. For him, Iraq has been the template of everything foreign policy should not be. He opposed the invasion as a state senator in Illinois, and many of his decisions as president have been measured against the lessons he took from Iraq. To him, the war proved that military intervention more often than not made things worse, not better.
这将是奥巴马最不想看到的局面。对他而言，伊拉克是美国外交政策的反面样板，集中了所有本不应采取的政策。在伊利诺伊任州参议员时，他就反对美军出兵伊拉克；担任总统期间，他的许多决定，都是在对照了从伊拉克战争中吸取的教训后权衡做出的。在他看来，这场战争证明了，军事干预通常会让局势恶化，而不是好转。
When he agreed to send more troops to Afghanistan, he insisted on a timetable for pulling them out. When he decided to intervene in Libya, he used only air power and made sure that NATO allies took the lead. When the Syrian civil war broke out, he resisted calls to step in even with air power or, for a long time, arms for the rebels. The longer he has been in office, the more skeptical he seems to have grown about the utility of force as a means of changing the world for the better.
尽管同意向阿富汗增兵，奥巴马依然坚持要设立撤军时间表。决定干预利比亚危机时，他只动用了空军，而且确保了北约(NATO)盟友发挥带头作用。叙利亚内战爆发后，他拒绝接受哪怕是动用空军进行干预的呼声，并在相当长的一段时期内，拒绝了武装反对派的提议。他在任的时间越长，似乎就越怀疑以武力为手段改善世界的观点。