WASHINGTON — As President Obama and his national security team struggle to increase pressure on Russia over its intervention in Ukraine, they have become entangled in a tense debate over how much emphasis to put on unity with European allies more reluctant to take stronger economic actions against Moscow.
华盛顿——美国总统奥巴马及其国家安全团队正艰难地试图就俄罗斯对乌克兰的干预行动增大对俄罗斯的压力。与此同时，他们正陷入一场激烈的辩论，辩论的焦点是，对于不愿对莫斯科采取更有力经济制裁的欧洲盟友，应该在多大程度上重视与它们的一致性。
So far, Mr. Obama has opted to stick close to the Europeans to maintain an undivided front, even at the expense of more punishing sanctions and quicker responses to Kremlin provocations. But some inside and outside the administration argue that the United States should act unilaterally if necessary, on the assumption that the Europeans will ultimately follow.
迄今为止，奥巴马选择与这些欧洲国家保持一致，维持一个联合阵线，即使要放弃对克里姆林宫挑衅行为的惩罚性制裁以及更快的回应。但美国政府内部和外部的一些人表示，在必要的情况下，美国应该采取单边行动，他们认为，欧洲国家到时候自然会追随美国的脚步。
The issue came to a head in recent days as American and European leaders tried to coordinate a new round of sanctions after the collapse of a Geneva agreement to de-escalate the crisis in Ukraine. Secretary of State John Kerry delivered a blistering public attack on Moscow on Thursday night for not living up to the agreement, but the plan to follow that up with sanctions on Friday fell apart while Washington waited for Europe, postponing action until Monday at the earliest.
最近几天，在旨在缓解乌克兰危机的日内瓦协议瓦解之后，美国和欧洲的领导人试图协调新一轮的制裁，因此，这个问题已成当务之急。周四晚间，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)公开对莫斯科发表了猛烈的抨击，指责其没有履行承诺，但后续于周五提出制裁措施的计划则以失败告终，为了等待欧洲的意见，华盛顿把行动推迟到了周一或更晚。
The deliberations in the West came as pro-Russian forces in Ukraine on Sunday continued to defy international demands to stand down. An antigovernment militia paraded eight detained members of a European military observer mission before cameras, while protesters seized a regional government television station and declared they would use it to air Russian newscasts.
西方进行上述讨论的同时，乌克兰亲俄势力周日继续无视国际上对其撤销战备状态的要求。一个反政府的民兵组织在电视上展示了被关押的八名欧洲军事观察员，与此同时，抗议者占领了一个地区政府电视台，宣布将用它来播放俄语新闻。
The display of the captive European observers underscored the challenge for Washington and Brussels in defusing the conflict. The observers, who were seized at a checkpoint on Friday, were led into an auditorium in the eastern city of Slovyansk by masked gunmen. The self-appointed mayor refused to discuss conditions under which they might be released beyond mentioning a prisoner exchange, although one of the observers was later freed for health reasons.
这些欧洲观察员俘虏被示众一事突显了华盛顿和布鲁塞尔在化解这场冲突方面的挑战。这些观察员是周五在一个公路检查站被抓的，他们被蒙面的持枪者带到了东部的斯洛夫扬斯克市的一个礼堂。该市自我任命的市长拒绝讨论释放他们的条件，只提到了可以交换囚犯，不过，一名观察员后来由于健康问题被释放。
The sanctions to be announced as early as Monday would single out more people close to President Vladimir V. Putin as well as certain companies. Among them are likely to be Igor Sechin, president of the state-owned Rosneft oil company, and Aleksei Miller, head of the state-owned energy giant Gazprom, American officials said.
制裁措施最早将于周一公布，它将针对更多与弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)关系密切的人，以及一些特定的公司。这其中可能包括国有的俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)的总裁伊格尔·谢钦(Igor Sechin)，以及国有能源巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)的负责人阿列克谢·米勒(Aleksei Miller)。
The measures will also block certain high-technology exports to the Russian defense industry, officials added, without elaborating. But while some of Mr. Obama’s advisers want him to impose sanctions against whole sectors of the Russian economy, the president has decided against it for now, cognizant of the resistance of European nations that have far more at stake economically, officials said.
官员们补充说，这些措施还将封锁对俄罗斯国防产业的某些高科技出口，但没有说明具体包含哪些内容。尽管奥巴马的一些顾问希望他能对俄罗斯经济的整个行业实施制裁，但考虑到来自一些欧洲国家的阻力，奥巴马已经决定暂时不这么做。这些欧洲国家经济上承受的风险要大得多。
During internal deliberations, Jacob J. Lew, the secretary of the Treasury, and other officials have argued for caution, maintaining that, while action is needed, more expansive measures without European support might hurt American business interests without having the desired impact on Russia, according to people informed about the discussion.
了解相关情况的人说，在内部讨论中，财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)和其他官员认为应当持谨慎态度，他们说，尽管需要采取行动，但如果在没有欧洲支持的情况下采取更多广泛措施，可能会损害美国的商业利益，同时也无法对俄罗斯造成预期的影响。
Mr. Obama has been particularly intent on not getting too far in front of Europe to avoid giving Mr. Putin a chance to drive a wedge in the international coalition that has condemned the Russian annexation of Crimea and destabilizing actions in eastern Ukraine.
奥巴马一直在竭力避免把欧洲甩得太远，以防普京有机会在国际联盟中制造分歧，尽管相关国家都谴责了俄罗斯对克里米亚的吞并和该国在乌克兰东部的挑衅行动。