The deepest form of vicarious pleasure, if not the noblest, is the kind we feel when most of our joy in someone else’s achievement comes from not having done any of the work ourselves. This is the happiness of thinking about a friend’s newborn baby when you get into bed for a full night’s rest; the thrill of knowing that at the exact moment when your marathon-running co-worker is gasping across the finish line in Central Park, you are at home, not running; and the joy of skipping over all the articles on turkey thermometers and lump-free gravy because it’s not your turn to host.
间接快乐的最深层次，就是那种不劳而获的快乐，虽然它不是特别高尚。间接的快乐，是想到一个朋友刚生了孩子，而你可以安静地睡一整晚的快乐；是知道你跑马拉松的同事正气喘吁吁跑过中央公园的终点线，而你在家待着不用跑的激动；是今年不用待客，所以可以跳过所有关于火鸡温度计和清澈肉汤的文章的喜悦。
Of course, as a Thanksgiving guest, you still have work to do. The altruistic way of looking at this is that you should try to make the host’s job easier. This assignment began back when you accepted the invitation. That was the moment to mention your allergies and to ask what you could bring with you. Now, with just a few days to go, it’s time to take stock.
当然，作为感恩节客人，你也有活儿要干。从无私的角度讲，你得让主人轻松点。这个任务在你接到邀请时就开始了。那时你就要说明自己对什么过敏，要询问自己可以带点什么。现在，感恩节没几天了，你该想想自己准备得怎么样了。
Are your white and sparkling wines chilled, and do you have a way to keep the bottles cold while you are getting there? If you are bringing your famous yam lollipops, will they be ready to serve, sitting in an ovenproof serving dish that can be warmed up while the turkey is resting? Don’t count on free counter space. Nathalie Dupree, a cookbook writer and veteran host in Charleston, S.C., ruefully recalled the year somebody showed up with boiled potatoes and proceeded to mash them on site. “Splattering potatoes on the wall at a time when everything else is going on is not welcome,” she said.
你的白葡萄酒或起泡酒冷冻了吗？在去的路上你有冷藏的方法吗？如果你是带自己拿手的红薯棒棒糖，它们是放在耐热盘里，等火鸡晾凉的空隙稍微加热就可以马上上桌吗？不要指望有空闲的灶台供你使用。烹饪书作者、南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿市经验丰富的主人娜塔莉·杜普利(Nathalie Dupree)懊恼地想起，有一年有个人带着煮熟的土豆前来，打算在她那里捣碎。“本来一切都井井有条，而你把土豆泥溅到墙上，那可不受欢迎，”她说。
If you absolutely must use the host’s kitchen to finish the yam lollipops, today would be a good time to confirm that it’s O.K. While you’re at it, ask if there’s something more that you can bring.
如果你真的必须用主人的厨房做完红薯棒棒糖，那么今天是确认那样做是否可行的好时候。你还可以顺便问问需不需要带点别的东西。
“I certainly don’t always know, and would guess many a host doesn’t always know, what I need until closer to the event,” said Eric Diesel, who writes about food and lifestyle on his Urban Home Blog, and who has helped organize some sprawling Thanksgiving feasts with up to 30 guests. By the day before the holiday, he said, the host has a much better idea of what’s missing: cocktail napkins, folding chairs, ice or, Mr. Diesel suggested, piles of plastic containers for sending guests home with surplus food.
“我当然是离待客的日子越近，越清楚还需要什么，我猜很多主人都是这样的，”埃里克·迪塞尔(Eric Diesel)说。他在博客城市生活(Urban Home)上撰写关于食物和生活方式的文章，曾帮忙主办接待多达30位宾客的盛大感恩节宴会。他说，到节日前一天，主人更清楚还缺什么：鸡尾酒纸巾、折叠椅、冰块或者——根据迪塞尔先生的建议，就是供客人打包剩菜的塑料餐盒。
The last items should be brought only if the host wants them and only if there are enough for everybody. One woman whose annual spread starts with two turkeys and eight pies and goes on from there said the most egregious guests of all time — worse even than the relative’s new girlfriend who entertained the multitudes with tales of their fantastic sexual escapades — were the couple who brought just enough Tupperware for themselves. “We didn’t get leftovers from Alan’s mom,” they explained. (The hostess, though still seething, asked that her name be withheld.)
最后要带的东西，一定是主人真的需要的；而且数量足够满足所有人的需要。有个年度盛宴以两只火鸡和八个派开始的女人说，她见过的最过分的客人是一对夫妇，他们只带了够自己用的特百惠保鲜盒，这简直比向众人炫耀自己的荒诞性闹剧的某个亲戚的新女友还要可恶。“我们没从艾伦的妈妈那里得到剩菜，”他们解释说（这位女主人虽然依然恼火，但是要求不提自己的名字）。
These suggestions help with the altruistic part of your mission. But remember that your highest priority is to make sure you are invited back so that you can enjoy the delicious sensation of not hosting again next Thanksgiving. Here, a small bribe is helpful. A bottle that is too good for the mob can be pressed discreetly into the host’s hands as you murmur, “This is for tomorrow.”
以上建议有助于满足你的无私心理。不过要记住，对你来说最重要的是，确保下一个感恩节你能再次获得邀请，享受不必待客的美妙滋味。下面这个小小的贿赂会有所帮助。带上一瓶好酒（大伙儿一起喝你会觉得浪费的那种），悄悄塞到主人手里，在他/她耳边低声说：“这个你明天喝。”
The more thought you put into the bribe, the better the odds it will be effective a year from now. “Somebody brought me a nice box of stationery,” said John Winterman, the general manager of the Manhattan restaurant Bâtard and a polished host at home, when asked about gifts from guests he has invited more than once. “Somebody brought me a chile pepper plant, which we used, of course.” Flowers growing in a pot (cyclamens look dapper at this time of year) beat cut stems, which will send the host rooting through the cupboards with gravy-splattered hands to find an empty vase.
你在礼物上越花心思，你一年之后就越有可能再次获得邀请。曼哈顿餐馆Bâtard的总经理约翰·温特曼(John Winterman)是一位讲究的家庭宴会主人，当被问及他多次邀请的宾客带的是什么礼物时，他说，“有人带给我一盒上好的文具。有人带来一盆栽种的红辣椒，我们当然需要这个。”种在盆里的花（每年的这个时候，仙客来看起来特别漂亮）好过剪下来的花，因为要是送后面这种，主人得用沾满肉汁的手在碗橱里乱翻一通，寻找空花瓶。
Your shot at a repeat performance will be seriously jeopardized if you spill Burgundy on the heirloom table linens, so a light, alcohol-absorbent lunch may be advisable if dinner will be served late in the day. On the same principle, pregaming with a few shots before you arrive is a risky maneuver. You should be relatively sober when you present your host gift and size up the situation.
如果你把勃艮第葡萄酒溅到主人祖传的桌布上，你想再次获得邀请可就难喽。所以如果宴会是在很晚举行举行，建议你午餐吃得清淡些，垫垫底。同理，赴宴前喝酒也有点冒险。你在给主人送礼物或者审时度势时，需要保持适度清醒。
“Tune into how the event is going and plug into whoever needs something,” Mr. Diesel said. “If the cook is hiding in the kitchen ask, ‘Can I help, or do you need me to be out there so you can be in here?' ” If you are shooed away, he said, appoint yourself coat-check clerk, bartender or babysitter. Or talk to the stray great-aunt who’s on her own.
“顺应宴会的情势，帮助任何需要帮助的人，”迪塞尔说，“如果厨师躲在厨房里，你可以问，‘你是想让我帮忙还是想让我出去，不在这儿添乱?’”迪塞尔补充说，如果你被赶出去了，你可以帮其他客人存放衣物，充当酒保或者照顾幼儿。或者陪离群独坐的老祖母聊天。
If you are given a kitchen assignment, make sure you understand it down to the last detail, unlike the guest of Ms. Dupree’s who piled potatoes on the turkey platter. If the host refuses help, that should not be taken for an invitation to stand in front of the refrigerator and chat, even if that’s what you’d do on another, looser day. On Thanksgiving, home kitchens are almost as busy and focused as professional ones, and you shouldn’t enter the combat zone any more than you would bust through the swinging doors at Jean-Georges during dinner service shouting: “Yo, J. G.! What up, dog?”
如果你被分配在厨房干活，一定要弄清任务的所有细节，不要像杜普利的那位客人那样，把土豆堆在火鸡盘上。如果主人不需要你帮忙，就不要理所当然地站在冰箱前跟主人聊天，虽然在其他轻松的日子里你可以那样做。在感恩节，家庭厨房几乎和餐馆厨房一样忙碌，而且需要专心。你不应该进入战斗区域，就像你不应该在晚餐时间走进让-乔治餐馆(Jean-Georges)的后厨，大吼：“呦，老乔！忙什么呢，伙计！”
Most of all, encourage the cooks from the sidelines. Bite your tongue if you notice the gravy hasn’t been degreased as thoroughly as you think it should be.
最重要的是，在场外鼓励厨师。如果你发现肉汤有点油腻，就忍住不要说出来。
“It’s so important not to give any kind of advice on anything,” said Denis Gainty, a professor of Japanese history at Georgia State University. “You need to be the cheerleader for the food that’s being produced by the host. I have lots of opinions about brining, but I realize I need to steer the conversation to safer topics, like religion and homosexuality.”
“不要提任何建议，这一点非常重要，”乔治亚州立大学的日本史教授丹尼斯·加藤(Denis Gainty)说。“你需要赞美主人正在做的食物。关于如何盐浸，我听到了太多建议，但我发现我需要谈些安全的话题，比如宗教和同性恋。”
At last, the turkey has been carved and you can finally enjoy the fruits of someone else’s labor. The urge to cash in with soaring mountain ranges of your favorite foods will be strong. This is the time to recall that you are playing the long game. If the stuffing is gone before everyone has had a crack at it, the host can’t make more but can easily look around and identify the looters.
最后，火鸡被切开了，你终于能享用别人的劳动成果了。你一定很想大快朵颐。这时你要提醒自己，放长线钓大鱼。如果每个人还没来得及尝一口，火鸡的填料就不见了，主人是没法再多弄点出来，但他/她只需环视一周，就知道是谁抢走了。
For the last two decades, Tom & Jerry’s bar in downtown Manhattan has been the site of an open-house Thanksgiving to which any local restaurant employees with nowhere else to go are invited. Daniel O’Connor, an architect who is one of the hosts, said the event is notable for its spirit of cooperation and sharing. Still, not everyone plays along. “You really see the divide when it’s leftover time,” he said. “You have some people literally taking an entire turkey home, not a piece of a turkey. Or taking a whole pie. There’s always someone like that.” As you load your plate, remember the Wall Street saying: Pigs get fat; hogs get slaughtered.
在过去20年里，曼哈顿闹市区的汤姆和杰里酒吧(Tom & Jerry’s bar)每逢感恩节就邀请无处可去的当地餐馆雇员免费用餐。建筑师丹尼尔·奥康纳(Daniel O’Connor)是主办人之一，他说，这项活动以合作分享精神闻名。但是，不是每个人都合作。“打包剩菜时你真的能看出区别，”他说，“有些人不是带走一块火鸡，而是真的把整个火鸡带回家。或者带走一整块派。总会有这样的人。”装盘时，要记得华尔街的那句话：人不能太贪婪，不然反而会落得一场空。
While taking modest initial portions, though, it’s important to act as if you have never encountered such bounty. Leo Carey, a senior editor at The New Yorker, who was born in England and has successfully extracted an invitation from the same Boston family for 15 consecutive Thanksgivings, noticed this American technique of complimenting the host early on. “Everyone self-consciously, self-mockingly but also weirdly proudly, talks about gluttony,” he said. “But the literal amounts of food consumed haven’t struck me as totally unprecedented.”
虽然一开始取菜时不要取太多，但是表现出你从未享用过如此的美味也同样重要。英国出生的利奥·凯里(Leo Carey)是《纽约时报》的高级编辑，一个波士顿家庭连续15年邀请他共进感恩节晚餐。他很早就发现了这种赞美主人的美式技巧。“每个人都难为情而又非常自豪地嘲笑自己多么贪吃，”他说，“但是实际上吃掉的食物并不是很多。”
Compliments should be delivered between mouthfuls and scattered far and wide. Keep in mind that there may be many cooks around the table and that each one is a prospective source for next year’s invitation.
赞美之词应该多说，而且应该分散到每道菜上。要记住，这一餐可能是好几位厨师做的，而他们每一个都可能决定明年邀请谁。
Most of all, though, remember that no dish in the American canon provokes more performance anxiety than roast turkey, and the host needs to hear that all the effort was worth it. One year when I invited people to my house for Thanksgiving, I suggested, in one of those fits of neurotic self-deprecation that hosts are prone to, that the white meat was a bit dry. A guest I didn’t know very well agreed.
不过，最重要的是，要记住，在美国，没什么比烤火鸡更让人焦虑，主人需要听到自己付出的所有劳动都没白费。有一年，我邀请一些人到我家过感恩节，出于主人们常有的神经过敏的自谦，我说白肉有点干。一个我不认识的客人居然非常赞同我的观点。
Amateur move. When you don’t roast it yourself, the turkey is always perfect.
真是业余。你自己又不烤，你想像中的火鸡当然是完美的。