There is no question most skin cancers are related to sun exposure, yet even with sunscreen sales approaching $1 billion a year, skin cancer rates continue to climb. Melanoma diagnoses have risen nearly 2 percent a year since 2000 and are increasing even more among young white women.
大部分皮肤癌与阳光曝晒有关，这个说法已得到公认，可是尽管防晒剂的销售额已经逼近每年10亿美元，皮肤癌的患病比例却在持续攀升。自从2000年以来，黑色素瘤的确诊病例上升了近2%，而且在年轻白人女性中上涨幅度更为明显。
Some experts blame inappropriate use of sunscreen, saying that people do not apply enough lotion (a golfball-size dollop) or do not reapply it every two hours as instructed. But there’s another major concern: Until recently, many sunscreens with a high sun protection factor, or SPF, were designed primarily to protect people from ultraviolet B rays, the main cause of sunburn. These sunscreens may have enabled users to stay out longer but did not necessarily protect them from ultraviolet A rays. These are associated with aging and skin damage, but some experts believe they may also be implicated in skin cancer.
一些专家表示问题在于人们没有适当使用防晒剂，使用者要么没有涂抹足够的防晒乳液（全身需要涂高尔夫球大小的防晒液），要么没有按使用说明每两小时补涂一次。但除此之外还有一个重要的问题：直到近期，很多带有高倍数防晒，也就是高SPF值的防晒剂，其成份主要是用来防护远紫外线（ultraviolet B rays, 简称UVB），而这是晒伤的罪魁祸首。这类防晒产品或许能让使用者在户外停留更长时间，但无法防止他们受到近紫外线（ultraviolet A rays，简称UVA）的伤害。近紫外线可导致皮肤衰老受伤，一些专家认为，它同时还跟皮肤癌有关。
Experts are urging people to limit their time in the sun, especially at midday, and protect their skin with hats, shirts and cover-ups instead of relying exclusively on sunscreen.
专家们鼓励人们要减少曝晒时间，尤其要避免在正午时间曝晒，同时要通过戴帽子、穿衬衫和罩衫来保护皮肤，而不是单纯依靠防晒产品。
“Sunscreen is not a magic bullet,” said Dr. Steven Q. Wang, director of dermatologic surgery and dermatology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Basking Ridge, N.J., and a spokesman for the Skin Cancer Foundation, which receives funding from sunscreen manufacturers. “It’s just one of the defenses against the harmful effect of UV radiation, and that message gets lost.”
“防晒产品并不是灵丹妙药，”新泽西巴斯金里奇市斯隆-凯特琳纪念癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)皮肤外科和皮肤病科主任斯蒂文·王(Steven Q. Wang)这样表示。他同时也是皮肤癌基金会(Skin Cancer Foundation)的发言人，该基金接受防晒品厂商的捐助。“它仅仅是对抗紫外线辐射负面影响中的一道防线，但这一点并不为人熟知。”
This summer, most of the sunscreen on store shelves must conform to new Food and Drug Administration labeling rules that may help remedy consumer misperceptions. Still, concerns remain about ingredients in some sunscreens.
今年夏天，在美国销售的大部分防晒用品都将遵守食品和药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)新的标签规定，而这或许有助于修正消费者的误解。不过，一些防晒产品的成份仍然令人心存疑虑。
Use of the label “broad spectrum protection” now means the sunscreen has been proved to protect against both UVA and UVB rays, although the UVA protection may be comparatively weaker. Any product with an SPF lower than 15 must carry a label warning that it will not protect against skin cancer. Products cannot claim to be waterproof, only water-resistant, and labels must note a time limit of either 40 or 80 minutes before the sunscreen is ineffective. Manufacturers can still sell sunscreens with SPFs that exceed 50, though F.D.A. officials are evaluating whether they should remain on the market, said Reynold Tan, a scientist in the agency’s Division of Nonprescription Regulation Development. It’s not clear that sunscreens with higher SPFs actually are more effective, and consumers may not apply them as frequently.
“广谱防护”这个标签现在意指防晒产品经证明，可同时防护UVA和UVB射线，不过防护UVA的能力可能相对较弱。所有低于SPF15的产品都应印有标签，警告消费者它对皮肤癌没有预防能力。防晒产品不能自称可以“防水”，只能说“耐水”，同时标签上必须注明产品将在40分钟或80分钟后失效。目前厂商仍可销售SPF值超过50的防晒产品，但据食品和药品管理局非处方药管理部门的科学家雷诺德·谭(Reynold Tan)介绍，该机构的官员们正在探讨，这类产品是否仍可上市。目前尚不清楚SPF较高的防晒品是否真的更加有效，而且消费者可能不会频繁补擦。
Advocates like Sonya Lunder, a senior analyst for the Environmental Working Group and an author of its report on sunscreen, have criticized the F.D.A. for backing away from some of its own proposals, like putting in place a star system that would give consumers more information about UVA and UVB protection, capping the SPF values allowed on the market at 50, and banning sunscreen sprays, which may not work as well to prevent sunburn.
索妮娅·朗德(Sonya Lunder)是环境工作小组(Environmental Working Group)的资深分析师，为这个组织撰写了一份关于防晒产品的报告，以她为代表的倡议人士一直对食品和药品管理局持批评态度，他们认为这个机构背离了自己原有的一些建议，比如纳入星级评分系统，让消费者了解更多关于UVA和UVB防护的信息；将市售产品SPF的最大值限定在50以下；同时禁止防晒喷雾销售，因为它在预防晒伤方面的功效未尽如人意。
Europe and Canada have tougher standards, Ms. Lunder said. “In the U.S., you can make a bad sunscreen and just not call it ‘broad spectrum,’ but still sell it,” she said. “In Europe, the pass-fail test is stronger, and it must protect against both UVA and UVB.”
朗德女士说，欧洲和加拿大采取了更严格的标准。“在美国，就算推出一种很烂的防晒产品，只要不标明‘广谱防护’就万事大吉了，照样能上市，”她说，“在欧洲，准入门槛更高，而且必须能同时防护UVA和UVB。”
Here is some advice to bear in mind when selecting sunscreen:
在挑选防晒产品时，请谨记以下建议：
■ Look for products with an SPF of 15 to 50, and that are labeled “broad spectrum protection,” meaning they protect against both UVA and UVB rays. Higher SPF values are misleading. “It’s like the gas mileage sticker on a car. It’s based on test conditions that you’ll never achieve in the real world,” said Ms. Lunder.
寻找SPF值在15到50之间，并且标明“广谱防护”的产品，这代表着它能同时防护UVA和UVB。如果SPF值更高，那就是在误导消费者了。“这就像是汽车上贴的耗油量标签，它所依据的测试环境，在真实世界里根本无法实现，”朗德女士说。
■ Keep babies younger than 6 months out of the sun, as their skin is especially sensitive. Sunscreen should not be used on infants. If they are outdoors, keep them completely covered and in the shade.
不满六个月的婴儿皮肤格外敏感，要避免日晒。婴儿不得使用防晒剂。如果孩子们去户外，应在阴凉处，并且全身都需要遮挡。
■ Try to keep older children inside when the sun is harshest, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. A bad sunburn in childhood or adolescence doubles the risk of melanoma later in life, according to the Skin Cancer Foundation.
早上10点到下午2点是阳光最强烈的时候，这时应让较大的孩子待在室内。据皮肤癌基金会表示，儿童或少年时代遭到严重晒伤，会导致成年后罹患黑色素瘤的风险加倍。
■ Avoid sunscreen sprays. The F.D.A. has banned sunscreen powders (though some products may still be available) and has asked for more data on sprays. The concern is twofold: that not enough sunscreen makes it onto the skin, and that the spray may be inhaled into the lungs.
避免使用防晒喷雾。食品和药品管理局已经禁止销售防晒粉剂（不过一些产品可能仍然有售），并开始进一步研究防晒喷雾的数据。对于这类产品存在两个顾虑：一是皮肤上可能无法涂抹充分的防晒剂，二是喷雾可能被吸到肺里。
■ Avoid products with vitamin A, retinol or its derivatives, such as retinyl palmitate and retinyl acetate. At the moment, the F.D.A. says there isn’t enough evidence to suggest these are harmful, but the Canadian health authorities appear to be concerned that the additives increase sun sensitivity. They have proposed requiring that sunscreens with retinyl palmitate carry a warning saying they can increase the possibility of a sunburn for up to a week.
避免使用含维生素A、维生素A醇或如棕榈酸视黄酯和维生素A醋酸酯这类派生物的防晒产品。食品和药品管理局说，目前并无充分证据证明这类产品有害，但加拿大卫生机构对它带来的日晒性过敏表示关切。该国卫生机构建议，含棕榈酸视黄酯的防晒产品说明书上应加注一行警示语，提示产品可能会加剧晒伤的可能，症状可达一周之久。
■ The Environmental Working Group recommends avoiding products with oxybenzone, a chemical that may disrupt hormones. Though research has found this effect, many scientists say the effect is so weak as to be insignificant. The advocacy group, however, recommends products that use zinc oxide and titanium dioxide as active ingredients. (These products may leave a milky white film on the skin.)
环境工作小组建议，需要避免使用含羥苯甲酮的产品，这种化合物可能会干扰体内荷尔蒙。研究发现了它带来的影响，不过很多科学家说，该效果极其微弱，可以忽略不计。而作为倡导团体的环境工作小组推荐使用以氧化锌和二氧化钛为有效成分的防晒产品。（使用这类产品，可能会给皮肤贴上一层乳白色的薄膜。）
■ Look for fragrance-free products. Scents bring more unnecessary chemicals and potential allergens to the mix.
寻找不含香精的产品。要产生香味，就要使用不必要的化合物，带来过敏的可能。
■ Take endorsements and seals of approval with a grain of salt. The Skin Cancer Foundation gives a “seal of recommendation” to sunscreens, but only if their manufacturer has donated $10,000 to become a member of the organization.
有保留地接受推荐和批准标签。皮肤癌基金会可以向一些防晒产品发放“推荐标签”，但前提是其生产厂商向基金会捐献了1万美元，成为该组织成员。