Sara Benda remembers when the Financial District didn’t feel like a neighborhood. That was eight years ago, when she moved there shortly before giving birth to twins.
在莎拉·本达(Sara Benda)的记忆中，纽约市的金融区以前并没有住宅区的感觉。那是八年前，她刚刚搬入这个区域，不久后生下了一对双胞胎。
Ms. Benda, 38, and her now ex-husband had been looking for a relatively inexpensive rental. “My broker tricked me by sending photos of the apartment first,” she said, referring to a unit she ended up renting at 15 Broad Street. “The layout looked open and lofty, and the design was very modern.” It worked, and she has stayed in the building since; she bought a two-bedroom there for $3.3 million in July.
今年38岁的本达和现已与之离异的丈夫当时正在寻找一套价格相对便宜的租赁公寓。“我的经纪人对我施了个招数，他先给我发了这套公寓的一些图片，”她说，这套公寓指的就是她最后在布罗德街15号(15 Broad Street)租下的一个单元。“房型宽敞气派，而且设计时尚。”这个方法起了作用，之后她便一直住在这栋大楼里；今年7月，她以330万美元（约合人民币2094万元）的价格买下了这里的一套两居室公寓。
In the years that Ms. Benda has lived in the Financial District at the southern tip of Manhattan, the neighborhood has gotten better, she said, with new restaurants and livelier weekends. When she moved there, construction was in the early stages at the World Trade Center site. On the East River, the South Street Seaport’s Pier 17 attracted plenty of tourists but was less successful in drawing local residents.
本达说，她住在曼哈顿南端金融区的这些年里，该社区的环境越变越好了，这里不但多了一些新的餐厅，周末的生活也更具活力了。她刚搬来的时候，那座世贸中心正处于动工阶段。东河(East River)上的南街海港(South Street Seaport) 17号码头虽然吸引了大量游客，却不太吸引本地的居民。
The area was, however, relatively inexpensive. Apartments could be had then for less than $1,000 per square foot, said Tara King-Brown, an agent with Corcoran. Now, they go for about $1,400 per square foot, she said, and up to about $2,000.
但这里的房价较为便宜。科科伦地产公司(Corcoran)的一位代理人塔拉·金-布朗(Tara King-Brown)说，这里的公寓当时以每平方英尺不到1000美元（每平方米约合人民币6.9万元）的价格就能买下来了。但如今这些公寓的价格已经上涨到了每平方英尺1400美元（每平方米约合人民币9.6万元），他说，还在向2000美元靠近。
After Ms. Benda, a stay-at-home mother, moved into the neighborhood, it took a few years, but the Financial District finally felt like home, she said. Then Hurricane Sandy hit in 2012. Some buildings were evacuated, the Seaport’s stores were flooded, and many streets were clogged with portable generators. “It was sad to see the Seaport dead for a year,” Ms. Benda said, “but it united a lot of people. Then life resumed again.”
全职妈妈本达搬入该社区之后住了好几年，这个金融区才终于有点家园的感觉了，她说。然后飓风桑迪2012年来袭。建筑物里的人群被疏散了，海港内的商店被淹没了，街道上到处是便携式发电机。“看到这座海港沉寂了一年让人觉得很难过，”本达说，“但这里慢慢聚集了许多人，然后，生活又恢复如常了。”
Phillip St. Pierre, a general manager at the Howard Hughes Corporation, which is revitalizing the seaport, said Sandy was an impetus to move “with more purpose” compared with before the storm.
正在复兴这座海港的霍华德休斯公司(Howard Hughes Corporation)的总经理菲利普·圣皮埃尔(Phillip St. Pierre)说，桑迪飓风成了一种推动力，让这里比风暴之前变得“更有奔头”了。
The old Pier 17 was torn down to make way for a new commercial and recreational center that is scheduled to open in 2017. Howard Hughes also created Seaport Studios, a retail pop-up, and will soon launch the Culture District, storefront exhibitions with partners like the Guggenheim Museum. The company is also in the process of revising its plans for a waterfront condominium tower that has been criticized by some city officials and other residents.
原来的17号码头被拆除，位置让给了一个计划于2017年开业的新商业休闲中心。霍华德休斯公司还筹建了一家短期零售店“海港工作室”(Seaport Studios)，不久还将启动一个文化区(Culture District)项目，也即与古根海姆博物馆(Guggenheim Museum)之类的合作者一起，在商店前举办一些展览。该公司还在修订几份建造一座水滨共管公寓楼的计划，该计划曾遭到某些居民和市政官员的批评。
Roshan Varma, 31, a retail consultant who bought a one-bedroom condominium at 40 Broad Street for $1.31 million in December, said he still struggles to persuade people to take the subway down to the Financial District. “That’s just something they don’t think of doing,” he said.
今年31岁的零售顾问、12月在布罗德街40号以131万美元（约合人民币831万元）的价格购置了一套一居室共管公寓的罗尚·瓦尔马(Roshan Varma)说，他仍在努力劝说人们乘地铁到金融区去。“他们只不过没考虑过这件事，”他说。
But there are signs that the Financial District is starting to hit its stride as a real neighborhood, not just home to Wall Street and much of the city’s financial services industry. The Fulton Center transit hub is open; tenants began moving into One World Trade Center last fall; and Ms. King-Brown said it was not unusual to see people walking down the street with strollers.
但有一些迹象表明，这个金融区正在努力向真正的社区发展，这里不再只是华尔街和纽约市大部分金融服务业的所在之处了。那座富尔顿转运中心(The Fulton Center)已经开业了；去年秋天，一些商户已经陆续入驻世贸中心一号楼(One World Trade Center)；据金-布朗说，现在看见大街上有人推着婴儿车散步已经不是什么稀罕事了。
Joseph Tepper, 24, a photographer who lives on William Street with his girlfriend, Cara Brockman, began renting in the area seven months ago and is now, like Ms. Benda, buying an apartment at 15 Broad Street. “I’m excited for what’s already here,” he said, “and the possibility of what will come.”
今年24岁、与女友卡拉·布罗克曼(Cara Brockman)住在威廉姆街(William Street)的摄影师约瑟夫·泰伯(Joseph Tepper)是7个月前开始在该区域租房的，现在他和本达一样，在布罗德街15号购置了一套公寓。他说，“我对这里现有的环境和将来的可能性感到兴奋。”
What You’ll Find
这里有些什么
The Financial District, by one common definition, is the section of Lower Manhattan roughly bounded by Chambers Street and the Brooklyn Bridge to the north and the West Side Highway on the west. The neighborhood has two faces: It is undeniably crowded during rush hour, and around tourist hubs like Battery Park, the area around the National September 11 Memorial Museum and the recently opened observatory at One World Trade Center. But the Financial District stripped of its suits is, as might be expected, quiet. Its many winding, narrow streets in the shadows of skyscrapers are often just a block away from tourist haunts.
根据一个常见定义，金融区属于曼哈顿下城区的一部分，其大致的边界，北至钱伯斯大街(Chambers Street)和布鲁克林大桥(Brooklyn Bridge)，西至西城高速(West Side Highway)。这个社区展现了两副面孔：在高峰时期、在巴特利公园(Battery Park)、911国家纪念馆旁、以及在最近即将于世贸中心一号楼开业的瞭望台这类旅游景点处，这里无可否认是个拥挤的地方；但正如人们可以想见的那样，这个金融区一旦过了上班时间会变得十分安静。这里许多蜿蜒狭窄的街道笼罩在高楼大厦的阴影之下，与那些热门的景点只有一条街区之隔。
The neighborhood is most relaxed during evenings and weekends. Increasingly restaurants and stores are open late, and newcomers are even catering to, say, the crowd that wants to have an al fresco brunch on Stone Street or near the waterfront.
在晚间与周末，这个社区处于最清闲的状态。餐厅与商店的开门营业时间越来越晚，于是那些新来的居民们甚至开始渴望拥挤的场面，比如大家都想去斯通街(Stone Street)或水滨地带来一次野外早午餐。
Luxury apartment towers predominate. Many are in former offices and banks, which often means high ceilings and amenities like gyms and roof terraces.
这里以豪华公寓楼为主，许多都是曾经的办公楼或银行大楼，这通常意味着高高的天花板，有健身房和屋顶平台之类的设施。
Heather Wyse, a sales director at Corcoran Sunshine, said she has also seen increased interest in proximity to the waterfront. New developments like one at 101 Wall Street, scheduled to be finished next year, are following that demand, she said.
科科伦·桑夏恩公司(Corcoran Sunshine)的一位销售主管说，她看到有越来越多人对水滨地带的房产感兴趣了。她说，有些新开发项目针对的就是这类需求，例如按计划将于明年竣工的华尔街101号大厦。
What You’ll Pay
这里房价多少
At the beginning of August, a search of StreetEasy.com showed 217 apartments, a mix of condos and co-ops, for sale in the Financial District. Condos predominated, ranging from a 370-square-foot studio at 56 Pine Street for $425,000 to a three-bedroom, 3,594-square foot penthouse at 50 West Street for $22.6 million.
今年八月初，在StreetEasy.com网站上的一次搜索显示，在这个金融区有217套公寓待售，共管公寓与合作公寓都包括在内。这些待售房屋以共管公寓居多，售价从42.5万美元（约合人民币270万元）的派恩街(Pine Street)56号楼中面积370平方英尺（约34平方米）的单间公寓，到226万美元（约合人民币1434万元）的西街50号楼中面积3594平方英尺（约334平方米）的三居室顶层豪华公寓不等。
Platinum Properties, which has its New York headquarters on Wall Street, put the median sales price for apartments at $1.1 million for the second quarter, up from $906,540 a year earlier — an increase of about 21 percent. Median prices were $680,000 for a studio; $1.5 million for a one-bedroom; $1.7 million for a two-bedroom; and $2.4 million for three or more bedrooms.
总部设在纽约市华尔街的铂金房地产公司(Platinum Properties)将第二季度公寓售价的中值定于110万美元（约合人民币698万元），高于去年的906540美元（约合人民币575万元）——上涨了大约21%。单间公寓的中间价格为68万美元（约合人民币432万元）；一居室公寓为150万美元（约合人民币952万元）；两居室公寓为170万美元（约合人民币1079万元）；三居室以上公寓为240万美元（约合人民币1523万元）。
Ms. King-Brown of Corcoran said there was a large rental market for students with parents as guarantors. Renters can expect apartments to go for about $50 to $60 per square foot, she said.
科科伦地产公司的金-布朗说，这里还有巨大的房屋租赁市场，对象是那些有父母做担保的学生。房屋出租人有望以每平方英尺50美元（每平方米约合人民币3427元）至60美元（每平方米约合人民币4113元）的价格出租公寓，她说。
What to Do
可以做些什么
Governors Island is a quick, free ferry ride from the Battery Maritime Building. The 172-acre island is small enough to walk or circumnavigate by bicycle, and is also home to art installations and occasional performances.
从巴特利海事大厦(Battery Maritime Building)搭乘免费渡轮很快就能到达总督岛(Governors Island)。这座面积172英亩（约70公顷）的岛屿小得足以徒步或骑车环岛巡游，这里还是举办公共艺术展和特殊演出的地方。
The National Museum of the American Indian is at Bowling Green, and the Museum of American Finance is nearby on Wall Street. A growing number of concerts, film screenings and festivals — many of them free — are held at the South Street Seaport. Also at the Seaport are the East River Waterfront Esplanade and the interactive Imagination Playground. A short walk away, at the Battery, the SeaGlass Carousel is scheduled to open to the public later this month.
美国原住民国家博物馆(National Museum of the American Indian)位于鲍灵格林公园(Bowling Green)中，而美国金融博物馆(Museum of American Finance)就在华尔街附近。有越来越多的音乐会、电影放映会和节日盛会——其中有很多都是免费的——在南街海港举办。这座海港中还有东河水滨大道(East River Waterfront Esplanade)和奇思妙想游乐场(Imagination Playground)。再步行一小段路，在巴特利公园内，那座深海主题的旋转木马按计划将于本月晚些时候对公众开放。
The neighborhood’s restaurant scene is in transition, with promising additions — such as Nobu and a new project from the team behind the Spotted Pig — in the pipeline. In the meantime, the restaurants along Stone Street are perennially popular, as is the Dead Rabbit bar on Water Street.
该社区的美食风景线仍在变换之中，有几家即将开业的新餐厅——比如Nobu，以及由“斑点猪”餐厅(Spotted Pig)的背后团队打造的一个新项目——正在筹备之中。与此同时，斯通街上的餐厅一年四季都很受欢迎，而华尔街上的那家“死兔子”( Dead Rabbit)酒吧也是如此。
The Schools
有哪些学校
New York City’s Department of Education combines the Financial District with neighboring Battery Park City. The area includes 19 schools, among them the prestigious Stuyvesant High School, one of the most difficult schools to get into. Peck Slip School (Public School 343) is moving to the South Street Seaport in time for the new school year after temporarily operating out of the Tweed Courthouse on Chambers Street.
纽约市教育局将金融区与邻近的巴特利公园城合并到一起了。该片区包括了19所学校，其中有一所最难进的学校，也即久负盛名的斯泰弗森特高级中学(Stuyvesant High School)。 Peck Slip高中（343号公立学校）在钱伯斯街特威德法院(Tweed Courthouse)大楼外短暂运营了一段时间之后，赶在新学期开学之前搬到了南街海港。
The Commute
通勤方式
Few neighborhoods in New York offer such accessibility. The Fulton Street station alone houses the 2, 3, 4, 5, A, C, J and Z subway lines. From there, an express train to Times Square is five stops — 15 minutes, if not fewer.
纽约市很少有新社区能出入如此便捷。仅在富尔顿车站就有2, 3, 4, 5, A, C, J和Z等数条地铁线。这里还有一趟高速列车途中仅停5站就能到达时代广场(Times Square)——用时最多15分钟。
The PATH commute to New Jersey should be eased with the expected opening later this year of the World Trade Center Transportation Hub.
今年晚些时候，随着人们翘首以盼的世贸中心交通枢纽( World Trade Center Transportation Hub)开始运营，前往新泽西州的PATH交通运输线应该可以缓解一下压力了。
The History
历史沿革
Historical sites around the Financial District give cities like Philadelphia and Boston a run for their money. Not only is Lower Manhattan the birthplace of New York City, but it’s also central to the creation of the United States. Fraunces Tavern on Pearl Street, for example, is where George Washington dined during the week that British troops left the city in November 1783. He gathered officers of the Continental Army there to say farewell the next month. In 1789, Washington was back for the first presidential inauguration, at Federal Hall on Wall Street. Afterward, he went to a service at nearby St. Paul’s Chapel — a small church built in 1766 that survived 9/11, despite its location across from the World Trade Center.
金融区周围的那些名胜古迹对费城和波士顿这样的城市构成了挑战。曼哈顿下城区不仅是纽约市的发源地，也是美国初创时期的中心地带。例如珍珠街(Pearl Street)的弗朗西斯酒馆(Fraunces Tavern)，英军于1783年11月从该市撤离的那个星期，乔治·华盛顿一直在该酒馆进餐。这里也是他于次月召集大陆军将士们告别的地方。1789年，华盛顿又回到了这里，在华尔街上的联邦国家纪念堂参加了他的第一次总统就职典礼。后来，他还常在附近的圣保罗教堂做礼拜，这是一座建于1766年的小教堂，虽然位于世贸中心的对面，但在9·11劫难中幸存了下来。