In October, Maja Djukic was rollerblading in Greenwich, Conn., when she heard a woman screaming for help. Ms. Djukic, an assistant professor at New York University College of Nursing, rushed to a nearby house to find 19-month-old Griffin Greene limp and blue. He had inhaled a Goldfish cracker, and his mother’s attempts to dislodge it by holding the toddler upside down and slapping his back had failed.
2013年12月，玛娅·杜尤吉克(Maja Djukic)正在康涅狄格州的格林威治玩滚轴溜冰，突然听到一个女人在喊救命。身为纽约大学护理学院(New York University College of Nursing)助理教授的杜尤吉克女士赶紧循声跑到附近的一户人家，发现19个月大的格里芬·格林(Griffin Greene)已经浑身发紫，瘫软无力了。他吸入了一块金鱼饼干，他妈妈将他倒提起来拍打后背，想要把饼干渣弄出来，但没有成功。
While the child’s father called 911, Ms. Djukic performed chest compressions, she recalled in an interview. By the time the ambulance arrived — about four minutes later — Griffin was breathing again and crying. Although he needed treatment to extract the cracker, which had become lodged in his lungs, Griffin is now fine thanks to the quick action of a passer-by.
在接受采访时，杜尤吉克回忆说，孩子的爸爸一面拨打911电话，她一面开始进行胸外心脏按压。约摸四分钟后，急救车赶到，而此时格里芬已经恢复呼吸，啼哭起来。尽管他需要接受手术来取出已经滑入肺中的饼干，但毕竟由于一位路人的及时相救，他现在已经安然无恙了。
Not every child who chokes is so lucky. Choking is the fourth-leading cause of unintentional deaths in children under age 5; every five days, at least one child dies after choking on food.
不是每个窒息的孩子都能这么幸运。在所有因意外死亡的五岁以下婴幼儿中，窒息是排在第四位的死因；每五天，就至少有一名儿童因被食物卡住喉咙而死亡。
The trachea, or windpipe, of a young child is about the width of a drinking straw, and if food or a small object is inhaled instead of swallowed, it can block the airway. Even when something is swallowed and becomes lodged in a child’s throat or esophagus, it may compress the trachea enough to impair breathing. After just four minutes without oxygen, a child’s brain can be permanently damaged.
幼儿的气管（或称气道）的宽度跟吸管相仿，如果孩子不是吞咽进食物或其他细小物体，而是吸入，就会将气管堵塞住。甚至有时候就算孩子是吞咽了什么东西，可是它堵到了嗓子眼或食管那里，也可能会挤压气管，影响正常呼吸。缺氧状态仅持续四分钟，孩子的大脑就将遭到永久损害。
Even though both of Griffin’s parents were with him when this near-tragedy occurred, neither knew what to do to save him. Few parents of newborns are taught how to prevent choking and what to do if it occurs. Yet infants and toddlers routinely explore the world with their mouths, and anything they may find lying about can become a choking hazard.
尽管在这场险些酿成惨剧的意外发生时，格里芬的父母都在他身边，可他们都不知道怎样才能救孩子。在新生儿的父母中，只有极少人接受了防止孩子窒息及施救的培训。可是，婴幼儿总是会用自己的嘴巴去探索身处的世界，他们发现的任何一样东西都有可能成为令其窒息的隐患。
Nearly every day, I see a statistic in the making among small children in my neighborhood. Under the care of a parent, grandparent or nanny, they are routinely given all manner of snacks and allowed to run back to their activities — while still chewing. It is a disaster waiting to happen, and sometimes I can’t resist saying aloud that the child should not get up until his food has been thoroughly chewed and his mouth is empty.
在我所住的小区，几乎每一天，我都能发现某个小孩有可能成为统计数据的一部分。在父母、爷爷奶奶或保姆的看护下，他们常常能拿到各种各样的小零食，然后飞奔着回去继续玩耍——而他们的嘴巴里仍然在嚼着好吃的。静候意外发生，这对我简直是一种灾难，有时候我会忍不住上前，跟对方说，孩子在已经彻底咀嚼了食物，嘴巴里没有任何东西前，不应该站起来活动。
A child should not eat in a moving vehicle, either. If the driver stops short or the vehicle is bumped from behind, the sudden lurch may cause a child to inhale food or to swallow it unchewed. Food accounts for 60 percent of pediatric choking cases, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Any food can become a choking hazard. The American Academy of Pediatrics cites hot dogs, meats, sausages, fish with bones, cheese cubes, popcorn, chips, pretzel nuggets, hard candy, gum, lollipops, jelly beans, marshmallows, whole grapes, raw vegetables, cherry tomatoes, nuts, peanut butter (especially eaten from a spoon or on soft bread) and even ice cubes.
孩子也不应在行驶中的车子里吃东西。如果司机突然踩刹车，或者被后车追尾，身体突然前倾可能会导致孩子吸入食物，或者在未经咀嚼的情况下把东西吞下去。据美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)数据，在小儿科窒息病例中，其中有60%都是由食物导致的。而且任何食物都有可能引发小孩窒息。美国儿科学会(The American Academy of Pediatrics)罗列了各类食物，包括热狗、肉、香肠、带刺的鱼、芝士条、爆米花、薯条、椒盐脆饼干、硬糖块、口香糖、棒棒糖、橡皮糖、棉花糖、整粒葡萄、生蔬菜、小西红柿、坚果、花生酱（尤其是用勺子或涂在软面包上食用时）甚至冰块。
Many parents now know that grapes should be halved for a young child, but fewer realize that a hot dog should be cut lengthwise for a child until at least age 4. (Better yet, skip nutritionally questionable hot dogs altogether.) Parents should wait to introduce puréed food until after 4 months of age, when motor skills for swallowing are better developed. Always supervise meals and snacks when babies and children feed themselves.
很多家长现在已经知道，在喂幼儿吃葡萄时，需要把它对半切开，但很少有人知道对于4岁以下儿童，热狗也应该切短。（姑且不论热狗究竟有没有营养。）家长应等到孩子至少满四个月，吞咽的运动技能有了更好的发育后，才开始喂食泥状辅食。当婴幼儿自己进食时，需要始终监督孩子进食的正餐和零食。
But nearly a third of choking cases in children are caused by objects. The pediatrics society lists these among the most common offenders: coins, buttons, marbles, small balls, deflated balloons, watch batteries, jewelry, pen caps, paper clips, arts and crafts supplies, small toys and detachable toy parts.
不过，也有近三分之一的儿童窒息意外是由异物引起。儿科协会列举了以下最常见的误吸入物品，包括硬币、纽扣、弹子、小球、泄气的气球、手表纽扣电池、小首饰、钢笔帽、曲别针、手工和美术用品、小玩具和玩具零部件。
Toys and games that are safe for an older sibling may not be for a younger brother or sister. Always check packaging for age recommendations, and keep toys meant for older children away from younger ones. And while it may be hard to believe, some infants have choked on pacifiers.
对家中大孩子安全的玩具和游戏，对于较小的弟弟或妹妹也许就未必如此了。家长需要查看各类商品包装中的年龄安全指引，并且要将那些只能供较年长儿童使用的玩具放到远离年幼儿童的地方。此外，听来或许很难相信，但一些婴儿确实曾经因吸入安抚奶嘴而窒息。
It is critical to know what to do if a child appears to be choking. If the child can cough, speak or cry, the airway is not completely blocked. Encourage the child to cough, and if that fails to dislodge the object, call 911. Caregivers should always have a cellphone on hand.
了解一旦孩子出现窒息表现时，该如何处理，这一点至关重要。如果孩子还能咳嗽、说话或哭泣，那么他的气道没有完全被堵住。应该鼓励孩子咳嗽，如果还是没法将异物咳出，应拨打911。看护者要随时将手机放在身边。
If a choking baby can make little or no sound, ask someone to call 911 (if you are alone, attempt a rescue for two minutes before calling 911). Place the baby face down over your arm with the head lower than the chest and support the baby’s head with your hand. Then give five quick blows between the shoulder blades with the heel of the other hand. If no object is dislodged, turn the baby faceup on a firm surface, place two fingers in the middle of the breastbone just below the nipples and give five quick thrusts. Repeat this sequence until the baby begins breathing or help arrives. If breathing is not restored within a few minutes, begin CPR (see box).
如果窒息的宝宝已经几乎出不了声了，请旁人拨打911（如果你是独自照顾孩子，先进行2分钟的急救再拨打911）。将孩子脸朝下趴在你的一只胳膊上，用手来支撑孩子的头部，并保持头的位置低于胸部。接着用另一只手掌根部对着孩子肩胛骨中央位置用力拍打五次。如果异物没法拍出，将孩子翻个身，脸朝上躺在坚实的平面上，将两根手指放在两乳头下方的胸骨中央处，快速进行五次压挤。重复这一步，直至孩子恢复自主呼吸或救援人员赶到。如果孩子无法在几分钟内恢复呼吸，需要开始进行心肺复苏急救（见下文）。
For a child over 1 who is choking, stand or kneel behind the child and wrap your arms around her. Make a fist and place it just above the navel. Grasp the fist with the other hand, and make quick upward thrusts with it. Repeat until the object is dislodged or the child begins breathing.
如果超过1岁的宝宝发生窒息，可以站在或跪在孩子身后，并用双臂环抱她，一只手握拳，放在她的肚脐正上方。另一只手握住这个拳头，双手快速向上压挤。重复这个步骤，直至孩子吐出异物或恢复呼吸。
Any child who required a choking rescue should be examined by a physician afterward.
任何接受了窒息急救的孩子，在事后都需要接受医生检查。
Tips for CPR on the Very Young 
对婴幼儿实施心肺复苏急救的要点
A baby or child who cannot breathe and loses consciousness — because of choking, an accident or any other reason — will need CPR modified for the young. If you are alone, perform CPR for two minutes before stopping to call 911.
在发生窒息、意外或因其他原因导致婴幼儿无法呼吸、丧失意识时，需要对其进行实施幼儿版的心肺复苏术。如果你是独自一人，先进行2分钟的急救再拨打911。
Place an infant face up on a firm surface. Place two or three fingers at the center of the baby’s chest, just below the level of the nipples. Give 30 gentle chest compressions at the rate of at least 100 a minute. Each should depress the chest about an inch and a half.
将孩子脸朝上放在坚实的平面上。将两或三根手指放在孩子乳头下的胸部中央，以每分钟至少100次的速度进行30次轻柔的胸部按压。每次胸骨下陷深度要达到约1.5英寸（合3.8厘米）。
Then tilt the baby’s head by lifting the chin; cover the baby’s nose and mouth with your mouth and give two gentle breaths, each for one second. Look to see that the chest rises with each breath.
然后抬起孩子的下颌，让其头部上仰；用你的嘴巴封住孩子的鼻子和嘴巴，接着以每秒一次的速度轻轻吹两口气，每次吹气后都需要能看到孩子的胸部随之鼓起。
Repeat this sequence until the baby starts breathing or help arrives.
重复这一步，直至孩子恢复自主呼吸或救援人员赶到。
For an unconscious older child, place the heel of one hand on the breastbone, just below the level of the nipples. Administer 30 fast and hard chest compressions, depressing the chest about two inches each time.
对于年龄较大、丧失意识的幼儿，需要将一只手的手掌根部放在其乳头下方的胸骨中央，进行30次快速有力的胸部按压，每次胸骨下陷深度须达2英寸（合5.1厘米）。
Then lift the chin with one hand, place the other hand on the forehead to tilt the head back, and put your mouth tightly over the child’s mouth. Give two breaths, each for one second, to make the chest rise.
然后用一只手抬起孩子的下颌，另一只手放在其前额，让头部上仰，接着用你的嘴巴紧紧封住孩子的嘴。以每秒一次的速度吹两口气，确保孩子的胸部鼓起来。
Repeat this sequence until the child resumes breathing or help arrives.
重复这一步，直至孩子恢复自主呼吸或救援人员赶到。