WHAT’S your major? It’s the defining question for college students — and the cliché that’s launched a thousand friendships and romances. It’s also a question that has become harder for students to answer.
“你是读什么专业的？”——最典型的问大学生的问题，也是结识朋友和搭讪的老套手法。这个问题让学生们越来越难回答了。
Blame it on the growing number of possibilities. Colleges and universities reported nearly 1,500 academic programs to the Department of Education in 2010; 355 were added to the list over the previous 10 years as colleges, to stay competitive and current, adopted new disciplines like homeland security and global studies, cyberforensics and agroecology.
主要的原因是学生们的选择越来越多。2010年，美国高校向教育部上报了近1500种专业课程；为保持竞争力和与时俱进，高校引进了像国土安全、全球研究、数字法医以及农业生态学这样的新学科，在过去10年中，有355种新学科加入进来。
At the University of Michigan and Arizona State University, students choose from a dizzying 251 and 250 majors, respectively. DePaul University in Chicago offers 24 more majors than it did in 2002, for a total of 98.
密歇根大学(University of Michigan)和亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State University)分别有251种和250种眼花缭乱的专业供学生选择。芝加哥的德保罗大学(DePaul University)提供98种专业，比2002年增加了24种。
And graduating with a double (or triple) major, minor or concentration as a way to hedge bets in an uncertain job market has become increasingly popular; the number of bachelor’s degrees awarded with double majors rose 70 percent between 2001 and 2011, according to the Education Department.
为在不明朗的就业市场中增加胜算，双学位（或三学位）、副修或专修日益流行；教育部的统计显示，从2001年到2011年，双专业的学士学位增加了70%。
Some students go to college knowing exactly what they want to do. But most don’t. At Penn State, 80 percent of freshmen — even those who have declared a major — say they are uncertain about their major, and half will change their minds after they declare, sometimes more than once. How to decide?
有些学生在上大学前就明确地知道自己想做什么，但大多数学生不是这样的。在宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Penn State)，80%的大一学生——甚至那些已经申报了专业的学生——都表示对自己的专业不确定，半数人在申报之后还有换专业的想法，有些还要换不止一次。怎么选专业呢？
THE NEW EXPLORER
大一可先做“考察生”
Colleges and universities have vested interests in students declaring early. Retention rates for declared students are better, and they are more likely to graduate in four years. But college officials also recognize that deciding on a major can be overwhelming, especially when coupled with the fear that a wrong choice will result in added semesters and tuition. “Students no longer have the luxury of stumbling into a major or making mistakes,” says Neeta P. Fogg, a research professor at Drexel University’s Center for Labor Markets and Policy, and a co-author of “College Majors Handbook With Real Career Paths and Payoffs.”
高校更喜欢早早定下专业的学生，而且选定专业的学生的滞留率也更低，他们更有可能在四年之内毕业。但大学管理人员也意识到选择专业令人不知所措，尤其再加上因错误选择而导致学时和学费增加所带来的恐惧感。德雷赛尔大学(Drexel University)劳动力市场和政策中心的研究教授、《大学专业指南：职业道路和回报》(College Majors Handbook with Real Career Paths and Payoffs)的合著者尼塔·P·福格(Neeta P. Fogg)表示：“那些误入某个专业、或选错专业的学生们，已不再那么幸运了。”
“Exploratory” is the new undeclared. Colleges have moved away from the negative-sounding “undecided” label to encourage students to experiment with unfamiliar disciplines and, perhaps, discover a passion and career path. “We want to remind them that they have an active role” in their academic choices, says Mary Beth Collier, the dean of academic advising at the State University of New York at New Paltz. At SUNY, exploratory students are urged to try new subjects using general education electives.
“考察”(Exploratory)成为了“未申报”的替代词。高校不再给学生贴上负面色彩的“未选定”标签，而是鼓励学生去尝试不熟悉的学科，或许他们能从中发掘兴趣和职业道路。“我们想要告诉他们，他们在学业选择上拥有主动权，”纽帕兹的纽约州立大学(State University of New York)学业指导部的主任玛丽·贝斯·科利尔(Mary Beth Collier)说。纽约州立大学鼓励“考察生”通过通识教育选修课来尝试新的科目。
Ms. Collier tells students: “You’ve taken the same six subjects since kindergarten. If you don’t know your major, don’t come here and take the same subjects expecting to figure it out.*” That can mean fulfilling a U.S. studies requirement with a political science or black studies course instead of a rehash of U.S. history that you should have learned in high school.
科利尔女士告诉学生：“从幼儿园起，你们就一直在修同样的六门课。如果你不确定你的专业，那就不要来这里，指望修同样的课就能想清楚这个问题。”这意味着，要满足“美国研究”专业的课程要求，应该修政治学或黑人研究，而不是重复一遍本在高中时就应该学的美国历史课。
Some schools have made exploration official. At the University of Florida, where 61 percent of students change their majors by the end of their second year, there are three exploratory tracks — engineering and science, humanities and letters, and social and behavioral — that students can declare for three semesters before choosing a specialized major. At the University of Cincinnati, undecided students can enroll in an exploratory studies program.
在一些学校，“考察”已经成为了正式程序。在佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)，有61%的学生在第二学年结束之前换了专业。有三类学科领域可供考察——工程与科学、人文与文学，以及社会与行为——学生可选择一类，然后在三个学期后再选择一个具体的专业。在辛辛那提大学(University of Cincinnati)，未选定专业的学生可以先参加考察研究课程。
WHEN IN DOUBT, TAKE IT
如果犹豫修不修，就先修了吧
Advisers caution: Don’t abandon subjects that you may need later. Students often don’t realize that many popular majors — psychology, social sciences, business — have math and science requirements. You might have to forgo majoring in economics, for example, if come junior year you have to make up courses in calculus and statistics.
顾问告诫：不要放弃那些你今后会需要的科目。学生通常不会意识到，有很多热门的专业——心理学、社会科学、商科——是需要数学和科学基础的。比如，如果到了大三你还必须要补修微积分和统计课程，你也许就不能选经济学为专业了。
This requires thinking ahead, says Fritz Grupe, the creator of MyMajors.com and an emeritus professor of computer science at the University of Nevada. You may not know what to do with the rest of your life at age 18, but you can cover your bases with prudent planning. Some majors have a curriculum that follows a tight sequence of courses. It’s easier to switch out of engineering than it is to take it up (if that’s possible at all) later in your college career.
MyMajors.com网站的创始人、内华达大学(University of Nevada)计算机科学的名誉教授弗里兹·格鲁普(Fritz Grupe)说，这需要有预见性。在18岁时你也许不知道在有生之年要做些什么，但是你可以通过谨慎的计划来做好准备。一些专业的课程排列比较紧凑，比如，在大学生涯的后期，从工程专业转出比转入（如果可能的话）更加容易。
The “biggest mistake” students make, Dr. Grupe adds, is failing to research what’s required of the major, and the profession. Nursing may sound attractive because “you like to help people,” he says, but nursing students take the same demanding math and science curriculum as pre-med students, and the work is often technical and not for every kindhearted soul.
格鲁普博士补充道，学生们犯的“最大的错误”，就是没有去研究专业和职业的需求。护理专业听起来吸引人，是因为“你喜欢帮助别人”，他说，但是护理专业的学生作为医学预科生，也要修同样高难度的数学和科学课程，而且护理工作通常是技术性的，并不是只要心地善良就能胜任。
THE BOTTOM LINE
选专业的底线
Colleges “do not make decisions in a vacuum,” Dr. Fogg says. They are constantly tweaking their offerings. The Department of Education’s list shows clusters of new programs in established fields of study that mirror scientific, cultural and societal developments. Some are cross-disciplinary or specializations, like biosystems engineering, clinical nurse leadership, computational biology and international policy analysis.
福格博士说，高校“不是凭空做决定的”，他们不断地调整课程。教育部的学科列表上出现了一些已有研究领域（如镜像科学、文化及社会发展）的新课程。有些科目是跨学科的或专业化的，比如生物系统工程、临床护士领导力、计算生物学，以及国际政策分析。
Quirkier additions to the list obviously reflect marketplace trends and student demand, like culinary science/culinology, digital arts, casino management and sports communication. At Montclair State University in New Jersey, which offers 300 majors, minors and concentrations, a new fashion studies major has been hugely popular, thanks to the university’s proximity to Manhattan; with Madison Square Garden and Giants Stadium in sight, it also saw opportunity in a sports industry and event-planning major within its business school.
科目表上这些新增的“古怪课程”明显反映出了市场趋势和学生的需求，比如烹饪科学/烹饪学、数字艺术、赌场管理和体育传播。新泽西的蒙特克莱尔州立大学(Montclair State University)有300种主修、副修和专修专业，由于学校毗邻曼哈顿，新开的时尚研究专业成为大热门；从校园能看到麦迪逊广场花园和巨人体育场，所以学校的商学院还开设体育产业和活动策划专业课程。
Still, it’s difficult to predict the employment market, says Michele Campagna, the executive director of the Center for Advising and Student Transitions at Montclair State. Many students choose majors they think will lead to jobs, but “four years from now,” she says, “freshmen will be applying for jobs that don’t even exist today.”
蒙特克莱尔州立大学的咨询和学生过渡中心(Center for Advising and Student Transitions)的执行理事米歇尔·卡派纳(Michele Campagna)表示，就业市场仍然难以预测。很多学生选择了他们认为好找工作的专业，但是“四年之后”，她说，“学生们甚至会碰到现在尚不存在的新工作。”
Most employers are looking for transferable skills — the ability to problem solve, work in teams, write and communicate, and think critically, says Ms. Collier of SUNY New Paltz. These can be developed in any liberal arts discipline. It makes no sense, she says, to “suffer through a major” because you think it will lead to employment. “We tell students, ‘Find a major that makes you intellectually engaged, that expands your brain and deepens your understanding of the world.’ ”
纽帕兹纽约州立大学的科利尔女士指出，大多数雇主看重的是可转用技能(transferable skills)——比如解决问题的能力、团队合作、写作和沟通，以及批判性思维。这些技能能够在任何一个文科学科中得到开发。她说，为了好找工作而“在某专业熬出个学位”是毫无意义的。“我们告诉学生，‘要找到一个能让你全神贯注、拓展你的思维，并加深你对世界的理解的专业。’”
At the same time, cautions Dr. Fogg, the stakes for college students today couldn’t be higher: 41 percent of graduates are employed in jobs that don’t require a college degree. Many employers today lack the resources and patience for on-the-job training, she says, and are looking for college graduates who are “shelf-ready employees.” So pick up professional direction, job-related skills and work experience, she says, and of course follow your heart.
与此同时，福格博士也告诫大家，如今大学生要承担的风险也比以往更大了：41%的毕业生找到的工作是不需要本科学位的。她说，如今很多雇主缺乏在职培训的资源和耐心，而且他们想要找的是“随时上手型”的大学毕业生。因此，她的建议是确立专业方向、发展与职业相关的技能、积累工作经验，当然还有，听从你的内心。