Over the past 24 years, while covering international sports for The Times, I’ve encountered North Korean athletes and officials on a number of occasions. Though the country is extremely isolated, its sportsmen and sportswomen compete around the world in Olympic sports and in soccer.
过去24年里，在为时报报道国际体育赛事过程中，我在很多场合碰到过朝鲜的运动员和官员。虽然朝鲜非常闭塞，但它的男女运动员经常参加世界各地的奥林匹克运动会和足球赛。
I never get a call or an email returned from North Korean officials. News conferences can be tense affairs that end abruptly. Yet I’ve found something that appears counterintuitive but nearly always seems to work: simply walking up and introducing yourself. What can seem to be a forbidding political and cultural chasm can be partly overcome, in my experience, with impromptu one-on-one interactions.
我从来没有收到朝鲜官员的电话或邮件回复。新闻发布会可能成为突然结束的紧张事件。但我发现了一个似乎违反直觉却几乎总是奏效的事：走上前去，介绍自己。根据我的经验，那个似乎难以逾越的政治和文化鸿沟，一定程度上可以通过一对一的即兴互动克服。
And so it was on Wednesday morning here in Bavaria, where a pairs team of North Korean figure skaters is trying to qualify for the Winter Olympics in February in South Korea. After practice, I said hello to the skaters’ coach, Kim Hyon-son, who stood beside the rink.
周三上午在巴伐利亚州就是这样，朝鲜的一对花样滑冰选手在努力争取明年2月韩国冬季奥运会的参赛资格。训练结束后，我对站在场边的花样滑冰教练金玄顺（Kim Hyon-son，音）打招呼。
Ms. Kim bowed, smiled and extended her hand. She said she knew that many people were interested in her skaters, Ryom Tae-ok and Kim Ju-sik. Perhaps they would say a few words on Friday, after the competition.
她鞠躬，微笑，伸出手握手。她说她知道很多人对她的两位选手廉太钰(Ryom Tae-ok)和金柱希(Kim Ju-sik)感兴趣。也许他们会在周五比赛结束后说几句话。
Later, I handed a business card to Ri Chol-un, an official in the North Korean figure skating association. He, too, shook hands and said that perhaps a meeting with reporters would come after the skating.
后来，我把自己的名片递给了朝鲜花样滑冰协会的一名官员李哲恩（Ri Chol-un，音）。他也跟我握了手，并表示，比赛结束后也许会安排运动员与记者见面。
These were the briefest of contacts. But at least a connection was made. (That is no small improvement. At the 1999 Women’s World Cup of soccer, held in the United States, the North Koreans once gave a news conference without some key participants: athletes and coaches.)
这些都是很短暂的接触。但至少建立了一种联系（这是不小的改进。在1999年在美国举行的女足世界杯上，朝鲜曾举办了一场没有运动员和教练等关键人物参加的新闻发布会）。
Later on Wednesday, Ms. Kim and Mr. Ri gave a smile of thanks when I motioned for them to enter a door to the skating arena as I was walking out the same door with my photographer, Jun Michael Park.
周三晚些时候，我和我的摄影师朴俊洙(Jun Michael Park)从通往滑冰场的门走出来后，示意金玄顺和李哲恩进去，他们对我微笑致谢。
“Contrary to our popular belief, they seemed to be more in touch with the outer world,” Jun said. As a native of South Korea who lives in Seoul, he was surprised to find his preconceptions challenged.
“与我们通常的观念不同，他们似乎与外部世界有更多的接触，”朴俊洙说。他是居住在首尔的韩国人，他为自己的先入之见受到挑战感到吃惊。
Apart from news media attention, the North Koreans are not so different from any other skaters here at the Nebelhorn Trophy competition. Ms. Ryom and Mr. Kim are not being kept apart or ceaselessly trailed by minders, as has sometimes been the case for athletes from authoritarian nations. Ms. Ryom and Mr. Kim are staying in the same hotel as their competitors, and eating in the same restaurant. Like some others, they perform to Beatles music. After practice on Wednesday morning, they left the arena unchaperoned, presumably to catch a shuttle bus back to the hotel or to stroll the streets of this cozy Alpine village.
除了新闻媒体的关注，朝鲜运动员与来这里参加内伯尔杯花样滑冰比赛的其他选手没有太大区别。廉太钰和金柱希并没有像有些从极权国家来的运动员那样，与其他运动员隔离，或时刻有保镖跟随。他们和竞争对手在同一家酒店下榻，在同一个餐厅进餐。和其他有些选手一样，他们跟随披头士(Beatles)的音乐起舞。周三上午的训练结束后，他们独自离开滑冰场，应该是乘班车回酒店，或者在这个舒适的阿尔卑斯山小村庄闲逛。
The pair smiled and hugged Bruno Marcotte, a prominent French Canadian coach who worked with them over the summer in Montreal.
两位选手对法裔加拿大教练布鲁诺·马科特(Bruno Marcotte)微笑，跟他拥抱——今年夏天他们曾在蒙特利尔与这位教练合作。
“When I look at the Olympic flag, that’s what it is,” Mr. Marcotte said on Wednesday. “I see the rings crossing each other and five different colors. For me, that’s sports. It’s bringing every nation together, every race, every religion.”
“我看着奥林匹克的旗帜，觉得这就是它的意义，”马科特周三说。“我看到那几个环连在一起，有五种不同的颜色。在我看来，那就是体育。它将所有的国家、所有的种族和信仰聚到了一起。”
My favorite interaction with North Korean athletes occurred during the 2003 Women’s World Cup, also held in the United States. The North Koreans stayed at a hotel outside Philadelphia and were accompanied by a garrulous, disarming owner of a rib joint in Hackensack, N.J. The restaurateur, Robert Egan, was also president of a trade organization seeking to improve relations between the United States and North Korea.
我与朝鲜运动员最愉快的一次接触是在2003年的女足世界杯上——也是在美国。朝鲜运动员在费城郊外的一家酒店下榻，同行的还有来自新泽西州哈肯萨克市的一位牛排馆老板，这个话很多、让人不会心生戒备的人名叫罗伯特·伊根(Robert Egan)，是一个致力于改善美朝关系的贸易组织的主席。
He cooked for the team at a sporting club one night and yelled from the kitchen, “Have we solved the nuclear crisis yet?” Every official present burst into laughter.
有一天晚上，他在一个体育俱乐部给球队做饭，他从厨房喊道：“咱们解决核危机了吗？”所有在场的官员们都大笑了起来。
Throughout my experiences with North Koreans, I’ve found one thing holds steady: Although the North Korean government has succeeded in making its citizens seem abstract to the outside world, casual meetings with athletes and officials can reveal more similarities than differences.
在我与朝鲜人打过的这些交道中，我发现有一点一直没有改变：虽然朝鲜政府成功地让自己的公民在外界看来很神秘，但与运动员和官员们的非正式会晤透露出的更多是相似而非差异。
In the words of Alexander Johnson, an American skater who watched the North Koreans train on Wednesday night: “They’re just people.”
正如周三晚上观看朝鲜队员训练的美国花样滑冰选手亚历山大·约翰逊(Alexander Johnson)说的：“他们跟普通人一样。”