This week, Sesame Street’s Grover is taking over Ask Well to answer questions about the new cookbook “Sesame Street Let’s Cook!” and how to encourage healthful eating for children. You can read his answers below and watch the video, and learn more from Susan McQuillan, a family nutritionist and the author of “Sesame Street Let’s Cook!”
本周的Ask Well请到了《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)的格罗弗(Grover)，他将回答您关于新菜谱《芝麻街：让我们一起学烹饪！》(Sesame Street Let’s Cook!)以及如何鼓励儿童健康饮食的问题。下面您可以阅读他的回答，观看视频，并向《芝麻街：让我们一起学烹饪！》的作者，家庭营养师苏珊·麦奎兰(Susan McQuillan)学习更多知识！“
Question: What’s the best way to try a veggie without making a yuck face?
问：有什么好办法可以让人不会一想到要尝试吃蔬菜就愁眉苦脸呢？
Answer: The funny faces are one of the best things about trying new foods! – Grover
答：那些滑稽的表情可是尝试新食物时最棒的收获之一哦！——格罗弗
Question: I have tried vegetables before and I do not like them. Why should I eat them and will I like their taste better as I get older?
问：我以前也试过吃蔬菜，可我一点也不喜欢它们。为什么我应该吃蔬菜呢？等我长大了，是不是它们就会变得好吃点了？
Answer: Vegetables help you grow and are good for you. You will like them more when you get older, unlike old vegetables. They are not so good. – Grover
答：蔬菜可以帮助你成长，对你的身体有好处。当你长大后，你就会更喜欢它们了。不过你可不会喜欢老蔬菜，它们可不怎么好。——格罗弗
Those are great answers Grover! But we also asked Ms. McQuillan for her advice about getting children to eat vegetables. Ms. McQuillan noted that too many parents focus on getting their child to eat a vegetable, and they don’t spend enough time thinking about how it is prepared. Here are a number of great suggestions for offering vegetables to children.
以上是来自格罗弗的绝妙回答！不过，我们还是要请麦奎兰女士再为我们提供一些关于如何让孩子吃蔬菜的建议。麦奎兰女士指出，有太多的家长满心想的都是要让孩子吃蔬菜，却没有花足够的时间思考应如何烹饪这些蔬菜。如果你要给孩子做蔬菜吃，这里有一些很不错的建议。
No more side dishes: If you’re mostly serving veggies plain as side dishes, try serving more vegetable soups, smoothies, pizzas with vegetable toppings, and mixed dishes like stir-fries, chilies and stews, where you can minimize the amount of meat you use and include more veggies and grains.
取消配菜：如果孩子的蔬菜摄入来源主要是配菜，你可以试着多做些蔬菜汤、蔬果汁还有蔬菜配料的比萨饼什么的，也可以做一些有荤有素的炒菜、墨西哥辣炖菜和炖菜，但要尽可能地少放肉，多放蔬菜和谷物。
Serve dips: Many kids will eat more vegetables if they can dip them into something, like Telly’s Tomato-White Bean Dippity Dip or Cowboy Elmo’s Creamy Ranch Dressing (made with yogurt). Both recipes are in this book for just that reason.
搭配蘸酱：如果可以蘸着别的东西吃的话，多数孩子都愿意多吃些蔬菜。可以选用的蘸酱有：Telly的番茄-白豆蘸酱、Cowboy Elmo的奶油农场风味调料（用酸奶制作）等。这也是这本书提供这两种食谱的唯一原因。
Make smoothies: In “Let’s Cook!,” Ms. McQuillan included a green smoothie that is made with kale, avocado, banana and fruit juice as a base. The juice and ripeness of the banana keep it sweet.
制作蔬果汁：在《让我们一起学烹饪！》一书中，麦奎兰女士介绍了一款用羽衣甘蓝、鳄梨、香蕉和果汁为基底的绿色蔬果汁。果汁和成熟的香蕉保持了它的甜度。
Use mashed potatoes and cheese: Use foods your kids like to introduce more vegetables into their diet. If your children like mashed potatoes, you might try mashing in just a little bit of some other cooked veggies (like cooked carrots). If they like cheese, ask if they would like to try a vegetable topped with a little melted cheese or grated Parmesan.
利用土豆泥和奶酪：利用你孩子喜欢的食物来向其饮食中添加更多蔬菜。如果你的孩子喜欢土豆泥，你可以试着在里面混一点其他的熟菜泥（如煮熟的胡萝卜）。如果他们喜欢奶酪，就问问他们是否愿意尝一尝添加了少许融化的奶酪或磨碎的帕尔马干酪的蔬菜。
Think about texture: For a child who liked only white bread, peanut butter and pancakes, Ms. McQuillan suggested serving vegetables with soft textures, such as a mashed potato purée mixed with carrot purée. Offer vegetables served raw with a dip or roasted to create a delicious new flavor and texture. Serve vegetables mashed like potatoes, shredded like slaw or cut into bits and added to macaroni and cheese.
考虑食物的质感：麦奎兰女士建议，如果孩子只喜欢白面包、花生酱和煎饼这样的食物，那么就给他做质感柔和的蔬菜吃，比如混合胡萝卜泥的土豆泥等。把蔬菜配合蘸酱生吃或者烤制一下也会产生鲜美的新风味和质感。土豆之类的蔬菜可以捣成泥，卷心菜等则可以切丝或切片做成沙拉，并加入通心粉和奶酪。