A MODERN WATERFRONT VILLA IN A SUBURB OF COPENHAGEN 
哥本哈根市郊区的一栋当代海滨别墅
$4.4 MILLION (30 MILLION DANISH KRONER)
440万美元（3000万丹麦克朗，约合人民币2821万元）
This three-bedroom three-bathroom Japanese-style home sits on the waterfront of Oresund, the strait separating Denmark and Sweden. The house is about six miles north of the center of Copenhagen in the suburb of Hellerup, which is considered one of Copenhagen’s most expensive neighborhoods. Tourists often pass Hellerup on the road from Copenhagen north to Elsinore, the setting of Shakespeare’s “Hamlet.”
这栋三卧三卫的日式住宅坐落在分隔了丹麦与瑞典两国的厄勒(Oresund)海峡的水滨地带。该房屋位于哥本哈根市中心以北大约6英里处（约9.7公里），在郊外的赫勒鲁普(Hellerup)社区，那里被认为是哥本哈根最昂贵的住宅区之一。从哥本哈根北部前往莎士比亚《哈姆雷特》的故事背景所在地埃尔西诺(Elsinore)的游客们会在路上会经过赫勒鲁普。
The 2,799-square-foot, one-story house was built in the early 1960s, but was redone in the 1990s to emphasize simple Japanese elements, the owner said. The large wooden front door leads to a small entranceway featuring Japanese maple paneling and a black granite tile floor. Past the entrance is a wide living area with oak parquet floors and expansive views of the water through tall windows. A separate room, up one step from the living area, features cherry paneling and a large fireplace, in addition to the water views.
据业主说，这栋面积2799平方英尺（约260平方米）的单层住房建于20世纪60年代早期，并在20世纪90年代翻修过一次，突出了屋内简约的日式元素。这扇宽大的木质正门通往一间小门厅，那里贴着日本枫木的墙壁镶板，铺着黑色花岗岩的地板。穿过这间门厅是一间宽大的客厅，客厅里铺着橡木拼花地板，从几扇高大的窗户外面还可以看见广阔的水域。从这间客厅往上走一个台阶，有一间隔开的房间，这里也能看见水景，室内贴着樱桃木的墙面镶板，并带有一座大壁炉。
The dining room is more of an atrium, with a glass roof and glass walls facing a small cluster of cypress trees. Sliding wood doors lead to the kitchen, which is dominated by a Teppan-style bar with a flat iron cooking plate built around a custom-made Molteni range and oven. The room adjacent to the bar is currently used as a lounge with large chairs, but it could be converted into a casual dining area.
餐厅更像是一间中庭，内有玻璃屋顶和几扇面对着一小丛柏树的玻璃窗。一扇木质推拉门通往厨房，厨房的主体部分是个铁板式的吧台，在一个定制的Molteni炉灶和烤箱周围装有一块烹饪用的铁板。吧台旁边的地方现在用作休息室，那里有几把大椅子，但这里也可改建为一间非正式的就餐区。
The master bedroom is a narrow, simple room with tatami mats and large French doors that open to the waterfront. The adjacent bathroom features black granite floors, a sauna and a small Japanese-style sunken bath. Another bedroom features a wall-to-wall futon mattress. There is a small attic under the sloping copper roof.
这间主卧是个空间狭小且陈设简单的房间，内有榻榻米的床垫和一扇通往水边的大法式双开门。旁边的这间浴室里铺了黑色的花岗岩地板，有一间桑拿房和一个日式的小浴池。另外一间卧室里有张覆盖了整个地板的日式床垫。倾斜的铜屋顶下还有一间小阁楼。
The total land is 0.26 acre, and the landscape is primarily bushes and pine trees, designed for low maintenance. There is a two-car garage. The backyard features a small covered patio, and the property faces a sandy beach. (The beach land is not part of the title.) A low hedge separates the property from the beach, where there is a short pier extending over the water.
这处房产的总占地面积是0.26英亩（约1052平方米），周围的景观主要是灌木丛和松树，这样的设计是为了降低维护费用。该房产还带有一间双车位的车库。后院里有一座阴凉的小露台，房产对面是一片沙滩。（那片沙滩不是该房产的一部分。）有一道低矮的树篱将该房产与沙滩分隔开来，沙滩上还有一条不长的甲板延伸至海边。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Prices for homes in Copenhagen are skyrocketing, agents say. In some neighborhoods, prices have risen more than 20 percent in the last year, they say. The number of apartments sold in the first six months of 2015 in central Copenhagen was 131 percent higher than in the first six months of 2010; sales of houses were up 82 percent from the same period in 2010, according to data tracked by Nybolig, the Danish real estate company.
据一些代理人说，哥本哈根的房地产价格正经历着过山车一样的起伏。他们说，去年在某些住宅区，房价已经上涨了超过20%。根据丹麦房地产公司Nybolig追踪的数据，哥本哈根市中心在2015年上半年销售的公寓数量比2010年上半年高了131%；独栋住宅的销售比2010年同期上涨了82%。
Denmark was not hit as hard by the financial crisis as other countries around the world and it has been quicker to rebound, says Henrik Kjaer, a partner in the Copenhagen office of EDC Poul Erik Bech, a real estate company. Prices fell as much as 40 percent after 2008 in some areas, but they have recovered steadily since 2010. “We’re actually at a higher level than before the financial crisis,” Mr. Kjaer said.
EDC Poul Erik Bech房地产公司在哥本哈根办事处的一位合伙人亨里克·克亚尔(Henrik Kjaer)说，丹麦所遭受的金融危机没有其他国家那么严重，所以反弹得也更快。2008年以后，在某些地方，房地产的价格下跌了40%，但从2010年后，价格就已经稳步回升了。“我们实际上处于比金融危机之前更高的价格水平，”克亚尔说。
Higher-end homes have seen the biggest price increases, agents said.
代理人称，一些高端住宅已经出现了最大幅度的价格增长。
Low interest rates are fueling sales, as is a steady migration of people from the countryside to the city. But there is concern that the current sales and price increases are unsustainable, agents say. The high prices and the potential for a rise in interest rates have led to speculation that the market may be a bubble ready to burst.
随着人们正在从郊区纷纷搬入市内，低水平的利率也在助长房地产的销售。不过据一些代理人说，人们担心目前的房地产销售和价格增长是不可持续的。目前的高房价和利率升高的潜在可能性已经导致人们开始猜测，这个房地产市场可能是一个即将破裂的泡沫。
But the supply of quality homes remains low. “In the short term, I don’t expect further increases” in prices, Mr. Kjaer said. But he does not expect prices to decline, he added, “because there is a lack of apartments for sale.”
但高质量房屋的供给一直不够。“在短期内，我并不指望价格会进一步上涨，”克亚尔说。但他也不认为价格会下降，他补充道，“因为市场上的公寓供不应求。”
WHO BUYS IN COPENHAGEN
谁在哥本哈根买房
The current crop of home buyers in Copenhagen is much different from the buyers before the 2008 crisis, agents said. During the last run-up, many homes were purchased as investments; today most people are buying homes as places to live.
据一些代理人说，在哥本哈根，目前的这些房屋购买者与2008年经济危机之前的那些买家大不一样。在上一次价格上涨期间，许多房屋都被买来作为投资之用；而现在，大多数人购买房屋是用来居住的。
“Before the 2008 crash, we saw a lot of speculative buyers in the market who drove the market prices up,” said Kim Pauli, the chief press officer for Nybolig. “These buyers are more or less nonexistent today.”
“在2008年经济危机之前，我们在房地产市场中看到了许多投机买家，他们将市场价格抬高了，”Nybolig公司的官方发言人金·保利(Kim Pauli)说。“而现在，那样的买家几乎已经不复存在。”
Copenhagen is benefiting from the global trend of people moving from rural to urban areas. The population of the city has grown to around 583,500 people, up almost 10 percent from 2010, according to government data. “A new trend in recent years is that a lot of families with children choose to live in an apartment in central Copenhagen,” Mr. Pauli said.
在当前人们纷纷从郊区搬入城市的全球趋势中，哥本哈根正在受益。据丹麦政府的数据，该城市的人口已经达到了大约583500人，比2010年增加了大约10%。“这些年出现了一种新潮流，许多有孩子的家庭都选择生活在哥本哈根市中心的公寓里，”保利说。
There is also a steady stream of buyers from around the European Union, most of whom have relocated to Copenhagen to work, according to agents. Citizens of Norway, Germany and other regional countries assigned to work in Copenhagen for a lengthy term often choose to buy, rather than rent, agents say.
据一些代理人说，还有一些买家正源源不断地来自欧盟一些国家，他们大多数人为了工作已经重新定居哥本哈根。这些代理人说，挪威、德国和其他国家派驻哥本哈根长期工作的公民往往选择购买房屋，而不是租赁。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
Denmark is not especially welcoming to international property buyers. Noncitizens of the European Union can buy property only if they have lived in the country for five years. It is possible to apply for a special exemption through the government, but permission is difficult to obtain, agents say. The rules are less strict for European Union citizens, but they still must prove that they are living and working in Denmark.
丹麦并不十分欢迎一些国际房地产买家。非欧盟公民必须在丹麦生活五年之后才能购买房产。一些代理人说，买家也可以向政府申请一项特别豁免权，不过一般很难得到批准。这些规定对欧盟公民略微宽松一些，但他们仍然必须证明他们将在丹麦生活和工作。
Typically, only the seller uses an agent in Denmark. Potential buyers find properties through advertisements online. Two of the biggest sites that aggregate listings are boliga.dk and boligsiden.dk.
在丹麦，一般只有卖家会用到代理人。潜在的买家们则通过一些在线广告找到在售的房地产。丹麦两个最大的集中出售房地产的网站分别是boliga.dk 和 boligsiden.dk。
Instead of an agent, buyers usually hire a lawyer, who oversees the transaction and protects the buyer’s rights. Buyers put down a 5 percent deposit to hold a property. The seller will offer a report on the physical condition of the property, but it’s usually a good idea for a buyer to hire an expert to inspect the house, agents say.
买家们不需要代理人，但常常会请律师，律师负责监督这项交易并保护买家的权益。买家们要预付5%的定金来保留要买的房产。代理人说，卖家将提供一份关于该房产实际状况的报告，但是对于买家而言，聘请一名专业人士来检验这栋房屋会是个不错的想法。
Mortgages are commonly used to purchase property, usually for up to 80 percent of the purchase price.
抵押贷款通常用来购买房产，其金额往往高达购买价格的80%。
WEBSITES
网站
Copenhagen tourism site: visitcopenhagen.com
哥本哈根旅游网：visitcopenhagen.com
Official Denmark site: denmark.dk
丹麦官网：denmark.dk
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
语言和货币
Danish, with English widely spoken; Danish krone (1 krone = $0.147)
丹麦语，英语广泛通用；丹麦克朗（1克朗=0.147美元，约合人民币0.934元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
A lawyer typically charges 10,000 to 20,000 kroner ($1,470 to $2,940) to handle a basic transaction for a buyer. The seller pays the agent fee, which is usually 2 percent to 3 percent of the purchase.
一名律师通常收费1万至2万克朗（1470至2940美元，约合人民币9340元至18680元）来为买家处理一项基本交易。买家支付代理费用，其金额通常为购买价格的2%至3%。
A tax on the registration of the deed is assessed at 0.6 percent of the purchase price, plus a flat fee of 1,660 kroner ($244). “Sometimes this charge is divided equally between seller and buyer, but there are no fixed rules,” Mr. Pauli said.
房地产契约的注册税大约是购买价格的0.6%，外加一项1660克朗（244美元，约合人民币1551元）的固定费用。“有时候这项收费会在买家与卖家之间平均分摊，但这不是定例，”保利说。
The government also charges a fee to register mortgages, usually 1.5 percent of the amount of the mortgage, plus a flat fee of 1,660 kroner. Many buyers also take out a change in ownership insurance policy, protecting the buyer if there are problems with the house, which usually costs 10,000 to 20,000 kroner.
丹麦政府还收取一笔费用来办理抵押贷款，这笔费用通常为抵押贷款金额的1.5%，外加一笔1660克朗的固定费用。许多买家还会在所有权保险政策上做出一项变更，以便该房屋如果存在问题可以保护买家，这笔费用通常为1万至2万克朗。
There are two forms of annual property tax in Denmark, a state tax on the property value and a local tax on the value of the land. The taxes on this property are usually about $10,000 a year, according to the owner.
在丹麦，有两种形式的年度物业税，一种是基于房地产价值征收的国税，另一种是基于土地价值征收的地税。据业主说，该房产的税收每年通常为1万美元（约合人民币6.4万元）。
CONTACT
联系方式
Tina Ortmann Abildgaard, EDC Hjort; (011-45) 39 62 95 25; edc.dk
Tina Ortmann Abildgaard, EDC Hjort; (011-45) 39 62 95 25; edc.dk