After the explosion on West 23rd Street on Saturday night, the police did what they typically do when they suspect a bomb has gone off. They spread out and began looking for unexploded bombs — what those on the New York Police Department’s bomb squad call “secondaries.” Officers began searching block by block, going as far south as 14th Street and as far north as 34th Street.
上周六晚在纽约市西23街发生爆炸后，警方采取的行动是他们怀疑有炸弹引爆时的常规做法。他们进行了大面积排查，寻找尚未引爆的炸弹——纽约警察局的炸弹清理小组称这种炸弹为“次级威胁”。警员们开始逐个街区进行搜索，向南最远至14街，向北最远至34街。
A few hours into the effort, two state troopers participating in the search found what appeared to be one, on West 27th Street, about four blocks above the explosion. On the sidewalk on the north side of the street, there was a pressure cooker with a cellphone attached to it, law enforcement officials said.
几个小时后，在爆炸案发现场以北四个街区的西27街，参与搜索的两名州警发现了一个疑似炸弹。执法人员表示，西27街北侧的人行道上有一个连有手机的高压锅。
A photograph of the device shared on social media shows the cookware, with wires and the cellphone. The authorities confirmed that the photo was authentic.
从社交媒体上转发的一张该装置的照片中可以看到高压锅及连接的导线和手机。当局证实了这张照片的真实性。
The police have not said whether a tip helped lead the troopers to the device or whether the officers discovered it entirely unaided.
警方没有说是否有人帮助警员找到了这个装置，还是警员自己发现的。
“They circled the block and they parked their vehicle and actually walked down the block, and that’s how they found it,” the city’s new police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, said at a news conference on Sunday. “They did a great job.”
“他们绕着那个街区行驶，然后把车停下来，步行进入了街区，就这样发现了这个装置，”纽约市新上任的警察局长詹姆斯·P·奥尼尔(James P. O’Neill)周日在新闻发布会上说。“他们的表现很出色。”
The police used a robot to inspect the device and place it in what is called a “total containment vessel,” a spherical chamber hitched to a police truck. The vehicle set off east on West 27th Street around 2:25 a.m., turning north on Avenue of the Americas and then heading toward the Bronx.
警方使用了一个机器人来检查那个装置，并将其放入一个被称为“全封闭容器”的东西里面。那是一个球形腔体，携带在一辆警用卡车上。大约在凌晨2点25分，卡车从西27街向东行驶，在美洲大道向北转，然后朝着布朗克斯方向开去。
The total containment vessel is essentially an inside-out diving vessel, Lt. Mark Torre, the commanding officer of the department’s bomb squad, said in an interview in July. “Instead of keeping the pressure out and keeping you alive in five fathoms of water, it keeps the pressure in,” he explained. Should a bomb explode inside, tiny vents allow pressure to escape. “It sounds like a hammer hitting a piece of steel,” he said.
“全封闭容器”实质上是一种作用与潜水器相反的容器，纽约警察局炸弹清理小组的指挥官马克·托雷(Mark Torre)上尉今年7月接受采访时曾说。“正常的潜水器抵抗外面的压力，让你能在近10米深的水下存活，而这个容器则要承受内部的压力，“他解释说。如果炸弹在容器里爆炸的话，压力会通过微小的通风口释放出来。“听上去就像是锤子在击打钢板，”他说。
It was not clear how many such vessels the department has, but it appears to be at least three. In 2014, the department put out an advertisement in search of a company that “feels it can provide services necessary to refurbish three existing total containment vessels,” according to contracting records.
目前还不清楚纽约警察局有多少个这样的容器，但似乎至少有三个。合同记录显示，纽约警察局2014年曾刊登广告，想找一家“认为能为现有的三个全密封容器提供必要的翻新服务”的公司。
Such vessels are often capable of containing a blast of 25 pounds of TNT or more, and they are increasingly a common piece of equipment for police agencies across the country. Even the campus force for the University of Georgia has one.
这种容器通常可承受25磅TNT当量或者更大的爆破力，它们正在日益成为全美各地警察部门的一种常见设备。就连乔治亚大学的校警队也配备了一个。
Because the purpose of the vessel is to contain the blast, the bomb squad does not typically close streets when it drives through the city with a bomb in the containment vessel. The police brought the device to Rodman’s Neck, a peninsula in the Bronx where the police have a facility. It is where many suspicious packages and much unexploded ordnance ends up, for the bomb squad to disassemble or blow up in a controlled environment.
由于这种容器的目的是遏制爆破力，炸弹清理小组在开着携带装有炸弹的容器的卡车穿过城市时，通常不会封锁街道。警方把该设备运到了布朗克斯的罗德曼莱克半岛，那里有一处警用设施。很多可疑的包裹和未引爆的炸弹都会送到那里去处理，炸弹清理小组会将炸弹拆除，或在受控的环境下将其引爆。
The police have said little about what the bomb squad has learned about the device found on West 27th Street. It appeared to resemble in some ways the devices used in the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings.
炸弹清理小组对西27街找到的装置究竟有怎样的了解，警方几乎只字不提。该装置似乎与2013波士顿马拉松爆炸案中使用的装置有某些相似之处。
The Boston Marathon bombers, the brothers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, appeared to have gotten their plans for the two pressure-cooker bombs they placed at the finishing line from Inspire, the English-language magazine published online by Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen. Each issue includes do-it-yourself instructions on building bombs and mounting attacks.
波士顿马拉松赛爆炸案制造者，塔梅尔兰和焦哈尔·萨纳耶夫(Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev)兄弟，在终点线安放了两个高压锅炸弹，他们的方案似乎来自基地组织也门分支机构在网上发布的英文杂志《Inspire》。该杂志每期都有如何用商店里买得到的材料自己动手制作炸弹、发动袭击的指南。
By Sunday afternoon, the bomb squad was struggling to find a way to open the device that minimized the risk of an explosion, a law enforcement official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the continuing investigation. Much about the device remained unknown. But if it was similar to the one that exploded on West 23rd Street, it was powerful. That explosion sent a Dumpster well over 100 feet down the street, the official said.
一位执法官员说，炸弹清理小组试图找到一种把爆炸危险降至最低的方法拆开这个装置，直到周日下午仍困难重重。该官员不愿具名，因为讨论的是正在进行的调查。有关该装置的很多东西尚属未知。但如果它与西23街引爆的炸弹类似的话，它的威力很强大。西23街的爆炸把一个大垃圾箱掀到沿街30米以外的地方，这位官员说。
On Sunday, after the police used a small controlled explosion to disable the device, it was being sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s laboratory in Quantico, Va.
周日，警方用小型控爆解除了该装置的危险后，把它送往联邦调查局(FBI)位于弗吉尼亚州匡蒂科的实验室。