A RESTORED 17TH-CENTURY MANOR IN SOUTHWEST FRANCE
法国西南部，一座经过修缮的17世纪庄园
$1.93 MILLION (1.395 MILLION EUROS)
193万美元（139.5万欧元，约合人民币1204万元）
This 19-acre property is in the northern Lot department near the town of Puy-L’Évêque. The buildings and landscaped grounds have been restored and renovated over the last 10 years by the owners, while retaining the original stone and wood construction, with limestone floors and beamed and arched ceilings, said Simon Norris, an owner of La Porte Property, the listing agency. The main L-shaped building has almost 8,000 square feet of living space, while various outbuildings have an additional 4,500 square feet.
该庄园面积19英亩（约合76889平方米），坐落在法国洛特省(Lot)北部的皮伊莱韦屈埃(Puy-L’Évêque)附近。据房地产经纪公司La Porte Property的所有人西蒙·诺里斯(Simon Norris)说，在过去十年间，此庄园主复原并翻新了庄园里的建筑物和景观，同时保留了原来的石质和木质建筑构件，如石灰石地板、露梁平顶和拱顶。庄园的主建筑为L型，居住空间近8000平方英尺（约合743平方米）；同时，它的附属建筑面积也有4500平方英尺（约合418平方米）。
Entrance is through a beamed and arched foyer. On the first floor are a living room with tall French windows; a television room with exposed stone walls and a fireplace; and a dining room and a breakfast room, each with a fireplace. The kitchen has half-timbered walls, recessed lights in the floor and ceiling and high-end appliances by Liebherr, Bosch and Mercury.
庄园的入口处，有一座带横梁的拱形门厅。一楼的房间包括一间起居室，里面有高高的法式落地玻璃窗；一间带裸砖墙的电视机房，内有一座壁炉；还有一间餐厅和一个早餐间，其中各有一座壁炉。厨房的墙壁是半木质的，地板和天花板上装有光线柔和的嵌入式灯具，厨房里配备了各种高端厨具，如利勃海尔(Liebherr)、博世(Bosch)和水星公司(Mercury)的产品。
Upstairs, the master bedroom has a chestnut wood floor and a fireplace, as well as an en-suite bathroom with a separate claw-foot tub and a stone wash basin. On the same level are two guest suites, one with a balcony; a library with a parquet floor and a fireplace; and an office. A spiral staircase leads to a third guest suite. There is also a barrel-vaulted studio and a cavernous unfinished attic for storage.
楼上的主卧室铺着栗木地板，有一座壁炉，还有一间配套的浴室，内有一个兽足浴盆和一个石质盥洗池。同在这一层还有两间客房，其中一间带阳台；另有一间书房铺着实木复合地板，也配了一座壁炉；此外还有一间办公室。一段螺旋状楼梯通往第三间客用套房。除了这些，还有一间筒形拱顶的工作室和一座尚未完工、可用于储放杂物的洞穴型阁楼。
Other structures on the property include a former pigeonnier, or pigeon house, that sits atop the arched entrance to the property, and two garages, one of which is attached to the main structure. The grounds include a broad lawn and a swimming pool.
这套房产还带有其它配套设施。拱顶门厅的上方，有一处原来的鸽舍；有两间车库，其中一间紧靠主楼。此外还有一片宽敞的草坪和一个游泳池。
The property is about two miles from Puy-L’Évêque. The Dordogne River valley is about an hour’s drive, as is the airport in Bergerac, which serves some continental destinations including Paris. A larger airport in Toulouse is about an hour and a half away by car.
这套房产距皮伊莱韦屈埃约两英里（约合3公里）。多尔多涅谷地(Dordogne River valley)离这里有一个小时的车程，贝尔热拉克(Bergerac)机场也一样远近，那里有飞往巴黎等欧洲大陆城市的航班。图卢兹(Toulouse)的机场规模更大，车程约一个半小时。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The most desirable areas of the region, which is also known as the Périgord, are in the southern Dordogne department, around Sarlat and what is known as the Valley of the Five Chateaux along the Dordogne River. The market extends southward from the river to include the northern parts of the Lot and Lot-et-Garonne departments; properties farther from the river tend to be less expensive, agents said.
佩里戈尔地区(Périgord)最理想的置业地点，都在多尔多涅省(Dordogne)南部的萨尔拉(Sarlat)周围，以及多尔多涅河沿岸被称为“五城堡谷地”(Five Chateaux)的区域。这处地产市场从多尔多涅河向南延伸，覆盖了洛特省以及洛特-加龙省(Lot-et-Garonne)的北部；经纪人透露，距离河道较远的房产价格会相对低一些。
The range of properties is broad, agents said, with small older homes, perhaps in a village, available for around $500,000. Buyers wanting land and possibly a pool should expect to pay at least $1 million. Significant historic properties with several acres of land in sought-after areas start at about $1.5 million and top out at around $4 million. The few actual chateau in the valley rarely change hands, Mr. de Lafontaine said. Prices have fallen since the recession, with agents citing declines of 10 percent to 40 percent.
据经纪人说，这里可资选择的房产范围很广，较为老旧的小型住宅，如果是在村子里，50万美元（约合人民币312万元）左右即可拿下。如果想要更大的面积，或许再多个游泳池，价格起码要达到100万美元（约合人民币624万元）。如果一套房产具有重大的历史价值，带有几英亩的土地，且位于热门地段，那么它的价格至少会达到150万美元（约合人民币936万元），最高可达400万美元（约合人民币2495万元）。德·拉封丹(de Lafontaine)说，谷地里那几座名副其实的城堡都极少易手。自经济衰退以来，房价下跌了不少。从经纪人那得到的信息可以获知，各地房价下跌幅度从10%到40%不等。
“It was crazy, to be honest, in 2007 and 2008,” Mr. de Lafontaine said. “Any property was a million-euro property. The crisis helped put the prices back to where they should be.”
“老实说，2007和2008年真的很疯狂”，拉封丹回忆道，“什么房子都能卖到上百万欧元。经济危机把房价拉回了它们应有的正常水平。”
Mr. Norris said: “Last year was probably the bottom of the slide. We think in 2014 it has started to pick up; we think that’s a reflection of prices that are now very reasonable, good value for money, and also that the economy in the U.K. has started to pick up quite rapidly.”
诺里斯说：“去年可能是房价下行的最低谷。我们认为，2014年房价会开始反弹，这也是市场对当前房价做出的自然反应。目前的房价很合理、很划算。而且，英国经济已经开始迅速恢复了。”
WHO BUYS IN THE DORDOGNE REGION?
谁在多尔多涅地区置业？
The Dordogne valley became a popular second-home and holiday destination for the British and the Dutch in the 1960s and 1970s, said Kirsten Pollard, the manager for southwest France of Home Hunts. In recent years, however, Americans, Australians, Italians and South Africans have bought there, she said, and it is now a truly international destination.
Home Hunt公司法国西南区的经理克斯汀·波拉德(Kirsten Pollard)说，多尔多涅谷地在上世纪六、七十年代即已成为英国人和荷兰人的度假胜地，这里的二手房也很受欢迎。最近几年，来自美国、澳大利亚、意大利和南非的顾客也开始在这里置业，她说，多尔多涅谷地现在已经真正国际化了。
A number of her potential buyers are cross-shopping in Provence, she said, where prices for comparable properties are about a third more expensive.
波拉德说，普罗旺斯也是她的几位潜在买家关注过的置业地点。那里的房价要比多尔多涅地区同类房产的价格高出近三分之一。
Mr. de Lafontaine said about 70 percent of his clients were French, with the rest from Britain and other Anglophone countries, especially Australia. For French buyers, he said, the appeal of the Dordogne is a historic one — they can buy a small chateau or old farm and restore it. “It’s kind of a cultural coming back to the region,” he said. While most French buyers come from Paris or other large cities, he said, a small percentage have come to the Dordogne after selling their houses on the Cote d’Azur, seeking more peace and tranquillity. Agents said the majority of their buyers were in their 40s or 50s, and looking for a property that they could eventually use as a retirement home. “If you buy something here you will want to keep it for your retirement, or you’re already retired,” Mr. de Lafontaine said. 
拉封丹说，法国籍人士占到了他手头客户总数的七成左右，剩下的客户来自英国及其他英语国家，特别是澳大利亚。对法国买家来说，多尔多涅的吸引力主要体现在它的历史性上——他们可以买下一座小城堡或旧农场，然后进行重建。“感觉像是过去的文化重新回到了多尔多涅地区，”他说。大部分法国买家来自巴黎或其他大城市，少数买家变卖了他们原本在蔚蓝海岸(Cote d’Azur)的住宅，专程来到多尔多涅寻找安宁。经纪人透露，大部分顾客都是40到50岁的中年人，置业目的是为了在这里安度晚年。“在这里置业的人，要么是想找个退休后的住处，要么就是已经退休了。”拉封丹说。
BUYING BASICS
买房须知
There are no restrictions on foreign ownership in France. Transactions are handled by a notary, who oversees negotiations, legal documents and tax payments related to the sale. Buyers can choose to retain their own notary and a lawyer, though most agents say this is not necessary.
法国对外国人置业没有限制。交易都要通过公证员进行，交易谈判、准备法律文书和售后的税款交割，均由他负责监督。买家可以选择出钱聘请自己的公证员和一位律师，不过大部分经纪人认为，这样做其实没有必要。
Ms. Pollard of Home Hunts said buyers should budget about 7 percent over the selling price to cover taxes and notary fees. She also cautioned that buyers with complex financial situations should consult with a tax planning specialist, as French inheritance and capital gains taxes can be relatively high.
Home Hunts公司的波拉德说，买家需要注意，在付款之前，应先将超过售价约7%的税金和公证费计入总价。她还提醒那些财务状况复杂的买家，要和自己的节税筹划顾问将各项细节考虑清楚，因为法国的遗产税和资本利得税可能相对较高。