Premature delivery is tied to increased heart risks in the mother, a review of studies has found.
一项研究综述称，母亲心脏病风险增加与早产有关。
Pregnancy complications such as pre-eclampsia, pregnancy-induced hypertension and gestational diabetes are recognized risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the mother. But this analysis, published in The European Journal of Preventive Cardiology, found that preterm delivery itself also increases the risk.
妊娠并发症，如先兆子痫、妊娠高血压综合征（妊高征）和妊娠期糖尿病是公认的母亲心血管疾病风险因素。但《欧洲预防心脏病学杂志》(The European Journal of Preventive Cardiology)上发表的一项分析表明，早产本身也会增加母亲心血管疾病发作的风险。
Researchers reviewed 10 large pregnancy studies, with sample sizes ranging from 3,706 to 923,686 women and follow-up periods ranging from 12 to 35 years. All compared women who had premature babies spontaneously — that is, a birth before 37 weeks’ gestation that was not induced for medical reasons — to women who gave birth to full-term babies. All studies either excluded cases of pre-eclampsia and intrauterine growth restriction, or adjusted for hypertension and pre-eclampsia.
研究人员检视了10项大规模的妊娠期研究，样本量在3706至923686人之间，随访期从12至35年不等。这些研究比较了有自发性早产史（定义为并非因医学原因引产而在妊娠37周前分娩）的妇女与足月生产的妇女，而且，均排除了先兆子痫和宫内发育迟缓病例，或针对妊高征和先兆子痫进行了校正。
Women with a history of preterm delivery had double the risk for ischemic heart disease, stroke or other cardiovascular disease compared with those without such a history, and the association was independent of other risks. The reasons remain unclear.
具有早产史的妇女发生缺血性心脏病、中风和其他心血管疾病的风险是无早产史的妇女的两倍，且该相关性与其他风险因素无关。个中原因尚不清楚。
“I don’t want to scare women who have a premature baby,” said the lead author, Dr. Karst Y. Heida, a gynecology resident at the University Medical Center Utrecht. “But it’s important that we are aware of women who are at increased risk. We’re not saying that if you have a premature baby it means you’re going to have a cardiac event.”
“我无意吓唬那些有早产史的妇女，”该研究的主要作者，荷兰乌特勒支大学医学中心(University Medical Center Utrecht)的妇产科住院医师博士卡斯特·Y·海达(Karst Y. Heida)说。“但了解哪些妇女风险较高非常重要。我们的研究结果并不代表只要你有早产史就一定会发生心脏问题。”