VALENTINE’S DAY is not a celebration of truth telling. God forbid! Relationships last only if we don’t always say exactly what we’re thinking. We have to disguise our feelings, to feint, to smile sometimes when we want to shout. In short, we have to lie.
情人节可不是说真话的节日。上帝不容！情感关系只有在我们不总是直抒胸臆时才维持得长久。我们不得不掩饰自己的感觉，不得不伪装，不得不在想大吼大叫的时候微笑。简而言之，我们不得不说谎。
We all tell lies, and tell them shockingly often: Research shows that on average in an ordinary conversation, people lie two to three times every 10 minutes. (It makes you want to be completely silent for a day or two just to throw off the statistics — but what about lies by omission?) And we lie particularly often when it comes to love, because we care more about love than we care about most things, and because love causes us more fear than most things do, and caring and fearing are two of the most common reasons for lying.
我们都会说谎，而且频率高得惊人：研究显示，在一次日常对话中，人们平均每10分钟就要说两至三次谎。（这让你不禁想彻底沉默上个一两天以摆脱这项数据——但省略信息不也是谎言的一种吗？）在爱情里，我们会更频繁地说谎，因为我们对爱情比对大部分事情都更在意，且爱情给我们带来的恐惧比大部分事情都多，而在意和恐惧都属于说谎最常见的原因。
It starts when we’re kids. Why did you lie then? Because you didn’t want to get in trouble; because you cared what the other kids thought; because you were afraid to lose the love of your mom. “It is the law of obedience which produces the necessity of lying in children,” Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote, advising us against making our children fearful. But even more than that, I’d argue, it is the need for love.
说谎从我们还是孩子的时候就开始了。那你为什么要说谎呢？因为你不想惹上麻烦；因为你在意别的孩子的看法；因为你害怕失去妈妈的爱。“是顺从法则(law of obedience)制造了孩子说谎的必要性，”让-雅克·卢梭(Jean-Jacques Rousseau)写道，他建议我们不要让自己的孩子感到恐惧。但比这更进一步，我想说，是对爱的需求使说谎变得必要。
The people who find themselves most betrayed by the lies of lovers are those who have the most unrealistic expectations about truthfulness. And the people who are most inclined to believe the lies they shouldn’t are the ones who tell themselves the biggest lie of them all: “I never tell lies.”
对自己爱人的谎言产生最强烈的遭背叛感的人，是那些对真实有着最不切实际的期望的人。最容易相信他们不应相信的谎言的人，往往对自己说了弥天大谎之最：“我从不说谎。”
If you want to have love in your life, you’d better be prepared to tell some lies and to believe some lies. If honesty is what matters most to you, you might as well embrace a life of silence and become a Trappist monk. These are, of course, options: Immanuel Kant, who argued that it was always wrong to lie, was a lifelong bachelor. And the notorious misanthrope Arthur Schopenhauer, also a champion of truthfulness and opponent of romantic love — he argued that to marry meant to do everything possible to disgust each other — saved his greatest devotion for his uninterrupted string of poodles.
如果你想在生活中拥有爱，你最好做好心理准备说一些谎话，并相信一些谎话。如果你认为诚实是最重要的，那你还不如投身静默的生活，做一个特拉普派(Trappist)的僧侣。当然，你还是有选择的：伊曼努尔·康德(Immanuel Kant)——他认为说谎永远是错的——终生未娶。还有因不爱与人交往臭名昭著的亚瑟·叔本华(Arthur Schopenhauer)，他同时还是一个真实性的拥护者和一个浪漫之爱的反对者——他认为结婚意味着尽己所能恶心彼此——他把他最大的奉献留给了他一只紧接着一只养的贵宾犬们。
But most of us do want to love and to be loved. So what are these lies we should tell and believe?
但我们中的大多数人还是想要爱和被爱的。那么哪些谎是我们该说和该信的呢？
Think of the dozens of lies you tell your children (or your parents told you) in order to help them believe in themselves: “You can be whatever you want to be.” “Life gets easier.”
想想那几十个你为了帮助孩子树立信心而对他们说的慌吧（或者是你的父母对你说过的）：“你能成为任何你想成为的人。”“日子会越来越好过。”
I was a know-it-all as a kid, and it made me unpopular: “Other kids are jealous because you’re smart.” These lies of love allow us to make it from one day to the next. “You’re the most beautiful woman in the room.” “You’re the only man who’s ever understood me.”
我小时候自以为是个万事通，这使我不受欢迎：“因为你聪明，别的孩子才嫉妒你。”这种爱的谎言使我们得以撑过一天又一天。“你是这个房间里最美丽的女人。”“你是我遇到的惟一懂我的男人。”
What is true one hour can become a lie the next, and vice versa. Some days saying “I love you” doesn’t feel honest at all, but it expresses a deeper truth that is necessary for the love to be sustained.
这一小时的真话在下一小时可能就成了谎言，反之亦然。有些时候，说“我爱你”丝毫不让人感到诚实，但它表达出了一个延续爱情所必需的深层次的真相。
There are many lies that my wife and I trust each other to tell. I ask her, “What are you thinking about?” and she reassures me with a pleasant lie about what she’s planning on wearing to dinner. Or she asks me, “Was that a hurtful thing to say?” “No, honey,” I reassure her.
我和我的妻子有许多我们相信彼此会说的谎话。我问她，“你在想什么？”，她会用一句令人愉快的谎话安抚我说，她正在盘算晚餐的时候穿什么。或者她问我，“这样说会让你伤心吗？”“不会的，亲爱的，”我宽慰她道。
But there are good lies and bad lies. I’ve been married twice before. The only time I’ve ever been deliberately spat on was by my second wife in the parking lot of our daughter’s elementary school. We were separated, soon to divorce, but we were at that stage when you’re almost more intimate, in a sickening way, than when you were married. The gloves are off: You can say anything to each other. “I wish you were dead!” she screamed. A man looked at us and then crossed the street. “You are the worst thing that ever happened to us! I wish you would leave and never come back!”
不过，谎话也分好坏。我之前结过两次婚。我惟一一次被人有意地啐口水，是我的第二任妻子在我们女儿小学的停车场里干的。我们那时分居了，很快就要离婚，但我们当时正处于一种几乎比结着婚的时候更亲密的状态，那是一种令人作呕的亲密。一场大战就要开始了：你可以对对方说任何话。“去死吧你！”她尖叫道。一个男人看了我们一眼，然后到路的另一边去走了。“你是发生在我们身上的最坏的事情！我希望你走开，再也别回来！”
She was in the right. About a year before this argument, I had been at an academic conference and had met a colleague for coffee. By the time we were back in my hotel room, I was still telling myself: I am a happily married man. I am not going to have sex with this woman. I lied to myself all the way up the point when she said, “Let’s get into bed.” Like so many people who have started a disastrous affair, I’m still not sure why I did it: vanity, mostly, I think. I felt flattered by her desire. When the affair finally came to light, my marriage was over.
她是占理的。在这场争吵前的大约一年左右，我去参加一个学术会议，其间与遇到的一个同事一起喝了杯咖啡。到了我们回到我酒店房间的时候，我还在告诉自己：我是一个有着美满婚姻的男人。我不会与这个女人发生性关系的。我一直在对自己说谎，一直说到了她说"我们到床上去吧”的那一刻。像很多陷入了灾难性的外遇关系的人一样，我到现在也不明白自己当初为什么要这样做：虚荣吧，多半是这样，我想。我为她对我产生的欲望感到洋洋自得。当这段风流韵事最终浮出水面时，我的婚姻就完蛋了。
What concrete advice could I offer the younger me, who got into that bed and forever damaged the lives of his wife and daughters? Don’t cheat — of course. Examine your intentions. Of all the things I did wrong, the worst was not that I told lies. The self-deception and denial didn’t help matters, but my real failure was a lack of care and commitment.
对于爬上了那张床并永远地破坏掉了他妻子和女儿的生活的那个年轻的自己，我能给他什么具体建议呢？不要劈腿——这是当然。检视自己的初衷。在所有我做错的事中，最糟糕的不是我说了谎。自我欺骗和对自己想法的抵赖让情况变得更糟，但我真正失败的是缺乏关心和担当。
My ex-wife and I are very good friends now, and I’m grateful. We care for each other enough, once again, to lie when we need to do so.
我和前妻现在是非常好的朋友，对此我心存感激。我们再一次对对方关心到了对彼此说谎的程度。
When it comes to love, both honesty and deception should be practiced in moderation. Only then can we celebrate the intoxicating illusions of love. Odysseus, Cleopatra, Scheherazade, Don Quixote, Don Juan, Molly Bloom — all of our greatest lovers have been fabulists, equivocators, promoters ... liars. Even Penelope, that great model of fidelity — do we really believe that she kept all those suitors around for 20 years just by weaving and unweaving a tapestry (itself a deception)? Or was weaving by day and unweaving by night Homer’s metaphor for the much more complicated — actually, much simpler, more human, more believable — activity she was truly engaged in?
在爱情里，诚实和欺骗都应适度。只有这样，我们才能尽情享受让人沉醉的爱之幻想。奥德修斯(Odysseus)、埃及艳后(Cleopatra)、舍赫拉查德(Scheherazade)、唐吉诃德(Don Quixote)、唐璜(Don Juan)、摩莉·布卢(Molly Bloom)——所有我们最伟大的情人们都是满嘴跑火车的人、爱兜圈子的人、大忽悠……骗子。即便是珀涅罗珀(Penelope)，那个伟大的忠贞模范——我们真的相信她仅仅通过把一块挂毯织了又拆、拆了又织（这本身就是个谎言）就把追求者们拒之门外20年吗？还是说，她白天“编织”晚上“拆”是荷马(Homer)对她真正在进行的更复杂——其实是更简单、更人性化、更可信——的活动的隐喻（英文中的weave，即编织一词，亦可指编织谎言——编注）？