For decades, it hung near the dining room inside a family home: a genre painting by a Dutch old master depicting an old man and his wife weighing and counting their gold coins. Judged a genuine work by Jan Steen and dated to the 1660s, it was once valued at $400,000.
几十年来，它一直悬挂在一家人的餐厅内：那是荷兰早期绘画大师的作品，画面上一个老人和妻子正在称量和数金币。它被鉴定为扬·斯蒂恩(Jan Steen)的真迹，时间在17世纪60年代，价格曾经在40万美元。
But now, the work is almost impossible to sell — rejected by Sotheby’s, by Christie’s and by a renowned Dutch art dealer who were all put off, not by its authenticity, but its history.
但如今，这幅作品已经基本上不可能出售了，它已被苏富比、佳士得和一位著名荷兰交易商拒绝，不是因为它不是真迹，而是因为它的历史。
Sometime in the years leading up to World War II, when Jewish art collections in Germany were already being pillaged, it was owned — if that’s the right word — by a Dutch Nazi collaborator and war profiteer, Dirk Menten.
“二战”之前的某个时期，德国犹太人的艺术收藏已经开始遭到掠夺，当时这幅画由德国纳粹收藏家与战争投机商德克·曼腾(Dirk Menten)拥有（如果可以使用这个词的话）。
Did he steal it or buy it, and when? Did his brother, Pieter, a war criminal who murdered Jews and plundered their art collections, play a role?
这幅画是他偷来的还是买来的，是他什么时候得到的？他的兄弟，因屠杀犹太人并抢劫他们的艺术品而成为战犯的皮特，是否在其中扮演了什么角色？
These are the sort of questions the art market does not like. They are also the ones I’ve confronted for four years as I’ve tried to reconstruct the painting’s provenance.
这些都是艺术市场所不喜欢的问题。四年前，当我试图追溯这幅画的起源时也遇到了这些问题。
The Nazis were superb record keepers. But not good enough to help me settle whether this work came out of Europe via theft or honest transaction. Instead, it has joined the growing ranks of paintings in provenance limbo.
纳粹非常擅长保存资料。但是并不足以让我解决这幅来自欧洲的作品究竟是通过偷窃还是诚实交易易主的问题，相反，它步入了那些出处成谜的作品行列，这样的作品如今还在日益增多。
It belonged to my mother-in-law’s companion, Alan H. Posner, who died in 2011. He was Jewish, and he thankfully never knew what I have learned about the artwork that hung in his Manhattan apartment. No matter how many times I tell this story, about monstrous people whose fingerprints are on a painting that my family walked past every day, chills run along my scalp. In my home office, I try not to look at my copies of Menten family correspondence that end in “Heil Hitler!”
这幅画属于我岳母的伴侣艾伦·H·波斯纳(Alan H. Posner)，他于2011年去世。他是个犹太人，谢天谢地，他不知道我研究过他挂在自己曼哈顿寓所的这幅作品。我的家人每天都要经过这幅画，然而不管我多少次讲起这个故事，讲起曾把指纹留在这幅画上面的那些可怕的人，我都忍不住头皮发麻。在我家的办公室里，我试着不去看我复印的曼腾一家的通信，结尾总以“希特勒万岁”告终。
I have made countless phone calls and sent hundreds of emails to people scattered from Mexico to Japan, anyone who might know something about the painting. The more I dig, the more I find murk. Maybe buried somewhere out there is Menten’s receipt from a reputable dealer, dated before the Nazis invaded Poland or Belgium, the two countries the painting seems to track back to. Or maybe descendants of some Nazi victims have seen this very panel in photos of their forebears’ home.
我曾经打过无数电话，发过几百封电子邮件，联系从墨西哥到日本的各种人，只要他们知道一点关于这幅画的事情。我愈是深入研究，就愈觉得阴暗。或许曼腾是从某位可敬的交易商手里得到这幅画，日期发生在纳粹入侵波兰或比利时（这幅画似乎可以追溯到这两个国家）之前，他的收条就埋藏在某个地方。抑或某些纳粹牺牲者的后裔曾经在祖先家里见过这幅画的照片。
Among Holocaust restitution researchers, Menten is known as a “red flag name” that signals “toxic provenance.” There are thousands of objects in this kind of predicament, items that changed hands under unclear circumstances in Nazi-occupied Europe. More are entering this gray area as searchable records — wartime exhibition listings, auction catalogs, archives from dealers, collectors and historians — appear online.
大屠杀物品归还计划研究者们把曼腾列为“标红旗的名字”，也就是“有毒的来源出处”。有成千上万的物品都处在类似困境之下，这些物品在纳粹占领欧洲时期，在不清晰的交易环境下几经易手。根据网上可搜索的纪录（包括战时展览清单，拍卖目录，交易商、收藏家与历史学家的档案）表明，其中大多数物品都进入了灰色地带。
Lynn H. Nicholas, the author of “The Rape of Europa: The Fate of Europe’s Treasures in the Third Reich and the Second World War,” told me she is glad I’m writing this article to illustrate the frustrations of research in the field. Nonexperts often think that art unmoored during wartime can be restituted easily, she said, but the process can be full of dead ends.
《欧洲的强暴：第三帝国与“二战”期间欧洲财富的命运》(The Rape of Europa: The Fate of Europe’s Treasures in the Third Reich and the Second World War)一书的作者琳恩·H·尼古拉斯(Lynn H. Nicholas)告诉我，她很高兴我写这篇文章，指出这一研究领域内的困境。她说，外行经常觉得战时被夺取的艺术品可以轻易归还，其实这项工作里充满死胡同。
Painting titles and attributions changed over time, so it can be hard to compare descriptions of what was stolen with pieces found years later. Allied soldiers and experts who sifted through loot after the war made mistakes or labeled canvases with vague terms like “nude portrait” and “landscape.” And every day, fewer survivors remain who remember their families’ collections. Legitimate heirs become harder to track down.
绘画作品的名字和归属经常改变，所以数年之后，被窃取的物品和被寻获的物品的描述就很难对上。战后审查战利品的盟军战士和专家们会犯错误，或者使用模糊的词语在画布上做标记，比如“裸体油画”或“风景”之类。每一天，能记得家族收藏的幸存者都在变得愈来愈少。正当的继承人已经愈来愈难找到。
Anne Webber, a founder and a chairwoman of the Commission for Looted Art in Europe, told me about one of her team’s more daunting assignments: finding heirs for a painting that belonged to a German Jew identified in a Nazi-era auction catalog only by the first letter of his last name.
安妮·韦伯(Anne Webber)是欧洲赃物艺术品委员会(the Commission for Looted Art in Europe)的创始人兼主席，她给我讲过她的团队做过的一项了不起的任务：仅凭着德国纳粹时期拍卖目录上一位德国犹太人姓氏的第一个字母，就找到属于此人的一幅油画的继承人。
A private collector told me he, too, owns an unsalable canvas. Experts only recently discovered it had been in Hermann Göring’s collection; there is no proof of theft, or of nontheft.
一位私人收藏家也告诉我，他拥有一幅无法出售的作品。专家最近才发现它属于赫尔曼·戈林(Hermann Göring)的收藏，没有证据表明它是否是通过窃取而来。
The Steen panel’s problems became clear a few weeks after Alan died. He owned a half-dozen old master works that the parents of his wife, Lillian, had bought before World War II. Her father, Clarence Y. Palitz, was a Russian Jewish immigrant who made a fortune in industrial equipment leasing, among other ventures. He and his wife, Ruth, traveled widely and built an art collection for their Manhattan and Mamaroneck, N.Y., homes with advice from Jewish art historians in Germany.
艾伦去世几星期后，斯蒂恩油画的问题水落石出了。他拥有六七幅古代大师的作品，是他妻子莉莉安的父母在“二战”之前买下的。她的父亲克拉伦斯·Y·帕里茨(Clarence Y. Palitz)是俄国犹太移民，通过出租工业设备等风险事业发了财。他和妻子拉斯到处旅游，在德国的若干犹太艺术史学家的建议下，收集了很多艺术品，放在曼哈顿以及纽约州马马罗内克的家里。
Alan’s files contained typewritten pages that listed some of the painting’s past owners, including a “D. Menten, Lwow” (part of Poland during the war, it is now Lviv in Ukraine) and a “Dirk Neutens, Brussels.” (Neutens, as the provenance researcher Victoria Sears Goldman pointed out to me, was probably someone’s misreading of a sloppily handwritten version of the word Menten.)
艾伦的文件中包括若干打印文件，列举了若干油画过去的拥有者，其中包括一位“D·曼腾，利沃夫（战前属于波兰，如今位于乌克兰境内）”，以及一位“德克·纽腾斯(Dirk Neutens)，布鲁塞尔”（艺术品出处研究专家维多利亚·希尔斯·古德曼[Victoria Sears Goldman]告诉我，“纽腾斯”很可能就是“曼腾”，是有人把潦草的手写体看错了）。
(Full disclosure: I pursued my research pro bono, for the intellectual thrill and as a favor to the family. I own no part of the work and have never had a stake in its potential sale.)
（补充：我的研究完全是无偿的，是为了智力上的刺激，也是为了帮助我的家庭。我对这件作品没有拥有权，如果它能被卖出去，我也不会从中获利。）
What I have pinned down is that in the 1850s, a German art historian wrote about a small, signed, Steen tableau of an old couple admiring their coins “most eagerly,” on display in the London home of the barrister and writer Edmund Phipps. It hung alongside works by Rubens, Frans Hals, Canaletto, Hogarth and Watteau. In 1859, Mr. Phipps’s widow auctioned his collection, including the Steen.
最后我确认，19世纪50年代，一个德国艺术史学家写道，一幅小小的，带有签名的斯蒂恩绘画，上面是一对夫妇，“热切地”欣赏他们的钱币，它陈列在伦敦律师兼作家埃德蒙·菲普斯(Edmund Phipps)家中。旁边还挂着鲁本斯(Rubens)、佛兰斯·哈尔斯(Frans Hals)、卡纳莱托(Canaletto)、贺加斯(Hogarth)和华托(Watteau)的作品。1859年，菲普斯的遗孀拍卖了他的收藏，也包括斯蒂恩的这幅作品。
Then the trail goes cold. It is unclear how or when Menten obtained it. The Palitzes appear to have acquired it sometime after April 25, 1933, when it was authenticated by Max J. Friedländer, a museum director in Berlin. They certainly owned it by 1942, when they lent it to the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.
后来线索就断了。曼腾如何且何时得到了这幅画，已经不得而知。1933年4月25日，这幅画被柏林一家博物馆的馆长马克斯·J·弗里德兰达(Max J. Friedländer)证明为真迹，之后，帕里茨一家出现了，并得到了这幅画。1942年，他们确实得到了它，并将它借给明尼阿波利斯的沃尔克艺术中心。
Mr. Palitz knew Dirk Menten as an art collector and sent him to Poland in 1933 to scout for art. Joining Mr. Menten on the trip was Julius Held, a respected art historian who had just been forced out of his Berlin job along with most other Jewish intellectuals.
帕里茨先生知道德克·曼腾是艺术收藏家，1933年把他派到波兰去寻找艺术品。后来和其他犹太知识分子一起，被迫离开柏林工作岗位的著名艺术史学家朱利乌斯·赫尔德(Julius Held)也和曼腾一起旅行。
Dr. Held later told an interviewer that Mr. Palitz wanted a scholar along because he “didn’t trust” his Dutch contacts.
赫尔德后来告诉一个采访者，帕里茨希望有一个学者随行，因为他“不信任”自己的荷兰联系人。
(In January 1934, the Palitzes brought Dr. Held to safety in New York. His mentor Dr. Friedländer survived in Amsterdam, his life spared because he advised collector-thieves including Dirk Menten’s brother Pieter.)
（1934年1月，帕里茨一家让赫尔德博士安全地来到纽约，他的导师弗里德兰达也在阿姆斯特丹生还，他之所以能够保命，是因为他曾经给那些收藏家兼窃贼们提建议，其中就包括德克·曼腾的兄弟皮特）。
In 1933, Pieter Menten was already living full time in Poland, growing rich from businesses including lumber. He and Dirk kept homes full of paintings in Holland, France and Belgium. (They may have obtained art through their cousin Hubert Menten, a collector and dealer in Berlin whose clients included Göring.)
1933年，皮特·曼腾已经完全生活在波兰，靠木材等生意致富。他和德克在家里放满了来自荷兰、法国和比利时的油画（他们可能是通过他们的堂兄弟赫伯特·曼腾[Hubert Menten]得到这些作品的，他也是柏林的一个收藏家兼交易商，其客户包括戈林）。
Dirk ran a leather factory in Belgium that ended up supplying belts for Nazi uniforms. (He was convicted of economic collaboration after the war but suffered few consequences.) In Poland, during the war, Pieter stuffed stolen art into his train cars and led Nazi gangs who shot hundreds of villagers and dumped them into mass graves.
德克在比利时经营一家皮革厂，最后为纳粹制作军服上的腰带（战后，他被判处经济通敌，但几乎没遭受什么惩罚）。在波兰，战争期间，皮特在火车车厢里的艺术品被偷了，此事导致纳粹士兵射死几百名村民，把他们扔进大坟坑之中。
After the war, Dirk settled on the French Riviera, with old master paintings on his walls and views of the sea and mimosa trees. Pieter added an expansive Irish home to his real estate portfolio. Not until the 1970s, when Pieter courted publicity for an auction of his art collection in Amsterdam, was he unmasked as a war criminal.
战后，德克定居在法国的里维拉，他的大宅可以看到海景与合欢树，墙上挂着他收藏的古代大师作品。皮特则在自己的房地产中又添了一栋爱尔兰大宅，并定居在那里。直到20世纪70年代，皮特在阿姆斯特丹拍卖自己的艺术品收藏时大出风头，才被认出是战犯。
The graves of the villagers were exhumed as evidence for his trial. He testified that eyewitnesses were mistaken; the real killer, he said, was Dirk. But then Dirk testified convincingly to the contrary.
村民们的坟墓被发掘出来，作为审判中的证据，他作证说，证人看错了，真正的凶手是德克。但德克作证说正相反。
(Hans Knoop, the Dutch journalist who investigated Pieter in the 1970s, and gathered evidence later used at his criminal trial, is now updating his book on the subject, “The Menten Affair.”)
（70年代调查皮特的荷兰记者汉斯·克努普[Hans Knoop]收集的证据后来被用在审判中，这件事被他写在《曼腾事件》[The Menten Affair]一书中。）
The whereabouts of the many works once possessed by Dirk and Pieter Menten remain something of a mystery, but their names appear in the provenances for paintings shown in numerous databases, books and auction catalogs. Some of the tainted works have ended up in Dutch government custody, posted on the Origins Unknown website. Perry Schrier, the senior researcher for the Origins Unknown Agency, said they are expanding their listings of theft reports, adding documentation and hoping to connect to more heirs.
德克与皮特·曼腾拥有作品的下落成了谜，但他们的名字出现在很多数据库、书籍和拍卖目录里这些画的出处之中。有些有污点的物品最后归荷兰政府监管，资料贴在“来源不明”网站上。来源不明研究所的高级研究员佩里·施里尔(Perry Schrier)说，他们正在扩展赃物赃物报告的名单，增添文件，希望联系到更多物主的后裔。
Still, Victoria Reed, the curator of provenance for the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, said that for some orphaned works, “We may never be able to put all of the pieces of the puzzle together.”
不过，波士顿美术馆研究物品来源的策展人维多利亚·里德(Victoria Reed)说，对于某些无主物品，“我们可能永远没法把所有拼图拼在一起了。”
Evie T. Joselow, an art appraiser in New York, told me not to give up hope for my own puzzle. As new resources surface, she said, “Provenances are not tightly sealed.”
纽约艺术鉴定师艾维·T·约瑟罗(Evie T. Joselow)告诉我，不要对我的拼图放弃希望。随着新证据浮出水面，她说，“物品的来源不会绝对不为人所知。”