Nuts to you! No, that’s not an insult. It’s a recommendation to add nuts to your diet for the sake of your health and longevity.
“见鬼去吧！(Nuts to you!)”在这儿可不是骂人的话。我这是在建议你为了健康和长寿，平时要多吃些坚果(Nuts)。
Consistent evidence for the health benefits of nuts has been accumulating since the early 1990s. Frequent nut consumption has been linked to a reduced risk of major chronic diseases, including heart and blood vessel disorders and Type 2 diabetes.
自从20世纪90年代初期以来，有关坚果有益健康的证据在持续增加。频繁进食坚果跟减少患慢性重症，包括心脏和血管疾病以及II型糖尿病都有关系。
The newest and most convincing findings, reported last month in The New England Journal of Medicine, come from the Nurses’ Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study, which together have followed nearly 119,000 women and men for decades. Both studies repeatedly recorded what the participants ate (among many other characteristics) and analyzed their diets in relation to the causes of death among the 27,429 people who died since the studies began.
上个月，《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)发表了迄今为止最新、同时也最有说服力的发现，研究的基础是“护士健康研究”和“健康从业人员随访研究”，两项研究总计对近11.9万人进行了为期数十年的随访。这两项研究都反复记录了参与者的饮食（及其他许多项特征），并分析了饮食与死因之间的关系，自研究开始后，有27429名参与者去世。
The more often nuts were consumed, the less likely participants were to die of cancer, heart disease and respiratory disease, and not because nut eaters succumbed to other diseases. Their death rate from any cause was lower during the years they were followed. (The nuts in question were pistachios, almonds, Brazil nuts, cashews, hazelnuts, macadamias, pecans, pine nuts, peanuts and walnuts.)
参与者吃的坚果越多，因癌症、心脏病和呼吸道疾病死亡的可能性就越低，而且这并不是因为吃坚果的人更容易死于其他疾病。在随访的多年间，他们因任何疾病死亡的机率都要更低。（这里所说的坚果，包括开心果、巴旦木、巴西果、腰果、榛子、夏威夷果、碧根果、松子、花生和核桃。）
Those who ate nuts seven or more times a week were 20 percent less likely to die from 1980 to 2010; even among those who consumed nuts less often than once a week, the death rate was 11 percent lower than for those who did not eat them.
在1980年到2010年间，那些每周吃坚果的次数达到七次或更多的人，死亡风险要低20%；甚至在那些吃坚果次数往往低于一周一次的人当中，死亡率也比从来不吃的人要低11%。
I know what you’re thinking: Aren’t nuts fattening? Yes, an ounce of nuts has 160 to 200 calories, nearly 80 percent from fat.
我知道你们在想什么：吃坚果不是会发胖吗？是的，一盎司坚果所含的热量达到了160-200大卡，其中有近80%热量来自于脂肪。
But in study after study, the more often people ate nuts, the leaner they tended to be.
但一项项研究在不断显示，人们吃的坚果越多，往往就会越瘦。
For example, in a Mediterranean study that tracked the effect of nut consumption on weight gain over the course of 28 months, frequent nut consumers gained less weight than those who never ate nuts, and were 43 percent less likely to become overweight or obese.
比方说，一项地中海饮食研究记录了人们在28个月间食用坚果对体重增加的影响，发现常吃坚果的人体重增幅要小于从不吃坚果的人，而且超重或肥胖的可能性低了43%。
How is that possible? First, nuts may be taking the place of other high-calorie snacks, like chips, cookies and candy. And nut eaters may be less likely to snack, period; the fat, fiber and protein in nuts suppresses hunger between meals.
这怎么可能呢？首先，坚果也许会占据其他高热量零食，比如薯片、饼干和糖果的位置。另外吃坚果的人吃零食的可能性也会较小；坚果中富含的脂肪、纤维和蛋白质可以在两餐中间抑制饥饿感。
Second, the body may treat calories from nuts differently from those in other high-carbohydrate foods. Third, nut eaters may pursue a healthier lifestyle and burn more calories through exercise.
其次，身体对待坚果带来的热量时，可能跟对待其他高碳水化合物的食物带来的热量有所不同。第三，爱吃坚果的人可能本身追求更健康的生活方式，而且在运动中燃烧了更多的热量。
Whatever the reasons, every study has indicated that nuts make an independent contribution to health and longevity, even after taking other factors into account.
不管原因是哪一个，各项研究都指出一点：坚果在健康长寿方面起到了独立的作用，而且在将其他因素考虑进时这种作用依旧存在。
And not just tree nuts. The new study found that peanuts were also linked to a reduced death rate and lower risk of chronic disease. Peanuts are legumes that grow underground, but they share constituents with tree nuts that are believed to protect against a wide range of diseases.
这还不仅限于树生坚果。新研究发现花生同样与减少死亡率和降低心血管疾病有联系。花生是长在土里的豆科植物，但它的成分与树生坚果类似，而这些成分据信可以防止人们患上各类疾病。
Botanically speaking, nuts are fruits, but most of the nuts we consume are the fruits’ seeds — able to produce a new plant when raw. Like the yolk of an egg, seeds must contain nutrients that support healthy tissues.
从植物学上角度来看，坚果是蔬菜，不过我们吃的大部分坚果其实是蔬菜的种籽——在原始状态下可以生长出新的作物。就好像鸡蛋的蛋黄，种籽包含着维持健康器官的营养成分。
Thus, all nuts are powerhouses of biologically active substances, most of which are known to protect and promote health. Penny M. Kris-Etherton, a professor of nutrition at Penn State who has studied the effects of nuts on heart disease, describes them as “complex plant foods that are not only rich sources of unsaturated fat but also contain several nonfat constituents,” including protein, fiber, plant sterols that can lower cholesterol, and micronutrients like copper and magnesium.
这样看来，坚果都是生物活性成分的发电厂，而我们知道其中大多数成分都可以保护和提升健康。宾州大学(Penn State)营养学教授佩妮·克里斯-埃瑟顿(Penny M. Kris-Etherton)一直研究坚果对心脏病的益处，她形容坚果是“一类复杂的农作物食品，它们不仅富含不饱和脂肪，还含有数种非脂成分，”包括了蛋白质、纤维、可降低胆固醇的甾醇，以及像铜和镁这样的微量元素。
Every one of these substances has been shown to ward off one disease or another. The fat content of nuts alone could account for their ability to support heart health. Nuts have less cholesterol-raising saturated fat than olive oil. On average, 62 percent of the fat in nuts is monounsaturated, the kind that supports healthy levels of protective HDL cholesterol and does not raise blood levels of harmful LDL cholesterol.
上述所有物质都已有研究证明，可以抵御各类疾病。坚果中含有的脂肪有益于维护心脏健康。而且比起橄榄油，坚果含有的可导致胆固醇提升的饱和脂肪酸更少。平均而言，坚果中含有的脂肪中有62%是单不饱和脂肪酸，这类脂肪酸可提高有益的高密度胆固醇(HDL)水平，同时还不会提高血液中有害的低密度胆固醇(LDL)含量。
Nuts contain omega-3 fatty acids that can lower triglycerides and blood pressure, slow the buildup of arterial plaque and prevent abnormal heart rhythms. Walnuts are especially rich sources of alpha-linolenic acid, some of which is converted to heart-protective omega-3 fatty acids.
坚果中含有ω−3脂肪酸，它可降低甘油三脂和血压，减缓动脉血小板凝聚，防止心律失常。核桃中含有的α-亚麻酸尤其丰富，而其中一些可转换为对心脏有保护作用的ω−3脂肪酸。
Most nuts, and especially almonds, are good sources of vitamin E, an antioxidant. Joan Sabaté, a nutritionist at Loma Linda University who has studied the health effects of nuts among Seventh-day Adventists, lists folic acid, selenium, magnesium and several phytochemicals among the compounds in nuts that have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory or anticancer properties.
大部分坚果都富含维生素E——一种抗氧化剂，其中又有巴旦木含量最为丰富。洛马连达大学(Loma Linda University)的营养学家胡安·萨巴泰(Joan Sabaté)与一群基督复临安息日会的教徒共同研究坚果的健康益处，他介绍说，坚果中含有的叶酸、硒、镁、几种植物素和化合物有着抗氧化、消炎或抵御癌症的作用。
The nurses’ study has linked tree nuts to a reduced risk of pancreatic cancer. A Taiwanese study of about 24,000 people found a 58 percent lower risk of colorectal cancer among women who ate peanuts, although a similar effect was not found among men.
“护士健康研究”已经发现，食用树生坚果跟减少胰腺癌危险有关。而一项涉及约2.4万人的台湾研究发现，在食用花生的女性中，结直肠癌的风险降低了58%，不过在男性中并未发现类似的益处。
In both the nurses’ and health professionals’ studies, eating nuts more than five times a week was associated with a 25 percent to 30 percent lower risk of needing gallbladder surgery.
在护士健康研究和健康从业人员研究中，每周吃超过五次坚果均可将需要胆囊手术的风险降低25-30%。
Nuts also contain dietary fiber, about a quarter of which is the type that reduces cholesterol and improves blood sugar and weight control. The nurses’ study and a study of about 64,000 women in Shanghai found strong evidence that frequent consumption of tree nuts, peanuts and peanut butter reduced the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes.
坚果中还含有膳食纤维，其中四分之一的纤维类型可以降低胆固醇、提高血糖并控制体重。护士健康研究和一项涉及6.4万名上海妇女的研究发现，有可靠证据证明经常吃树生坚果、花生和花生酱可降低II型糖尿病进展的风险。
Peanuts and especially pistachios are rich in resveratrol, which is being investigated for possible anti-aging effects. Pistachios are also rich in arginine, which gives rise to nitric oxide, a substance that improves blood flow and can help counter erectile dysfunction.
花生、尤其是开心果中富含白藜芦醇，据研究这种植物素有延缓衰老的可能。开心果中还含有丰富的精氨酸，它可以诱导一氧化氮的生成，一氧化氮则可以刺激血流，有利于防止勃起功能障碍。
Including a serving or two of nuts in your daily diet is not challenging. Dr. Kris-Etherton suggests using peanut butter as the protein source in a sandwich, and replacing a cookie snack with a one-ounce serving of mixed nuts. Nuts can also be added to hot or cold cereals, salads, stir fries and desserts.
每天吃一两份坚果并非难事。克里斯-埃瑟顿博士建议在三明治中涂上花生酱，这可以成为蛋白质的来源，另外在吃零食中，用一盎司的综合坚果代替饼干。在麦片（冷热皆可）、沙拉、炒菜和甜点中，也可以加入坚果。