SEOUL, South Korea — On May 10, the chairman of the Samsung Group, Lee Kun-hee, had a heart attack and stopped breathing. He was resuscitated at the hospital but remained in a coma for more than two weeks. As the country waited for information about his condition, rumors ran rampant. One of the most widely circulated was that Mr. Lee, 72, had already died and Samsung was covering it up.
韩国首尔——三星集团(Samsung Group)会长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)于5月10日心肌梗塞发作，一度停止了呼吸。他在医院被救了回来，但在之后两周多的时间里，一直处在昏迷状态。目前，整个国家都在等待关于他病情的消息，谣言满天飞。最近流传甚广的一则谣言是，今年72岁的李健熙，其实已经去世了，只不过三星一直在掩盖。
Samsung announced last week that Mr. Lee had stirred. One story goes that the chairman opened his eyes for a moment just when Lee Seung-Yeop, a Samsung Lions’ slugger, hit a home run.
三星上周宣布，李健熙有一些轻微的活动。一则故事讲到，三星狮队(Samsung Lions)的强击手李承烨(Lee Seung-Yeop)打出全垒打时，李健熙曾短暂地睁开眼睛。
The obsession with Mr. Lee’s condition speaks to Samsung’s outsized importance to the South Korean economy. Samsung is the prime example of a chaebol, one of the massive family-run conglomerates that are credited with leading the country through its postwar surge from an impoverished country to an economic powerhouse. Chaebols flourished with the support of successive authoritarian regimes, which lavished them with tax breaks and protection from foreign competition.
对于李健熙病情的执着关注，显示出三星对韩国经济异乎寻常的重要性。三星是“财阀”(chaebol)最好的例子。这是一种规模巨大的家族企业集团，在韩国战后从一个贫困国家跃升为经济龙头的历程中，财阀引领经济发展的成就值得嘉许。在一连数届威权政权的支持之下，财阀蓬勃发展，政府向它们给予了慷慨的税收优惠，并保护它们免受外国对手的竞争。
But many South Koreans feel that chaebols have become too powerful. Several high-profile corruption scandals in recent years involving chaebol executives, and the light treatment they received from the courts, have only deepened the sense that the corporate behemoths have become too dominant. But is South Korea ready for weakened chaebols? What would happen if a company like Samsung were to fail? That’s the question that naturally arose when Lee Kun-hee slipped into a coma.
然而很多韩国人感觉，财阀的势力过于强大。近年来曝出了数起涉及财阀高管的高调腐败丑闻，但他们在法庭上却得到了宽大处理，这更加重了大型企业主导力量过强的感觉。然而韩国为财阀实力减弱做好准备了吗？如果三星这样的公司倒闭了，会发生什么？李健熙陷入昏迷之时，人们自然会产生这样的疑问。
In 2013, Samsung accounted for about 20 percent of South Korea’s total business profits. Samsung Electronics, just one of scores of subsidiaries, accounts for close to 15 percent of the total shares in the South Korean stock market. But you don’t need to know these figures to get a feel for Samsung’s hold on the country.
在2013年，三星约占韩国总商业利润的20%。三星电子作为集团旗下数十家子公司之一，占有韩国股市总市值的近15%。不过，不需要了解这些数字，就能感受到三星对这个国家的控制力。
A person could live here using only Samsung products. You could wake up in your Samsung C&T-built apartment, turn on your Samsung TV, and check the weather on a channel run by Lee Kun-hee’s brother-in-law. On the subway, you could watch how the Samsung Lions lost their baseball game the night before on your Samsung Galaxy smartphone. On the weekend, you could spend time with your family at Samsung’s Everland amusement park just outside of Seoul. And you could pay for everything using your Samsung credit card.
居住在这里的人，只使用三星的产品就可以生活下去。在三星物产(Samsung C&T)建设的公寓楼里醒来，打开三星的电视机，在李健熙的姻亲经营的电视频道上查看天气预报。在地铁里，你还可以在三星Galaxy智能手机上观看前一天晚上三星狮队是怎样输掉棒球比赛的。周末，你可以和家人到三星旗下位于首尔市郊不远处的游乐场爱宝乐园(Everland)玩耍。而且，为所有东西付账时都可以用三星的信用卡。
Very few people predicted that Mr. Lee, the introverted, taciturn third son of Samsung’s founder, Lee Byung-chull, would blossom after succeeding his father after his death in 1987 and turn the company into the economic giant it is today. But under Mr. Lee, Samsung thrived and became a top player in the smartphone and television markets. The share price has skyrocketed during his tenure.
内向寡言的李健熙是三星创始人李秉喆(Lee Byung-chull)的三子。很少人能料到李健熙在1987年父亲去世、接掌大权之后，能够大展宏图，将公司转变为今天这样的经济巨人。在李健熙的领导下，三星蓬勃发展，变成了智能手机和电视市场上首屈一指的公司，股价也在他任内大幅飙升。
Samsung Electronics is now the No.1 pick among college students for where they want to work, a significant change from 20 years ago, when university campuses were largely critical of the conglomerates, which were suppressing the labor movement. About 200,000 university graduates, almost a third of the country’s annual graduating class, sit for Samsung’s employee aptitude test.
现在，在大学生的就业意向中，三星电子排名第一。这与20年前有了显著的变化，当时大学校园里对打压劳工运动的大型企业集团大多持批评态度。约有20万名大学毕业生参加了三星的员工能力考试，几乎占全国每年毕业生总人数的三分之一。
In general, South Koreans’ opinions of the conglomerate are mixed. There is an unmistakable pride that we feel over its success, which is tied to our country’s rise over the last decades. But we are also very wary of Samsung’s deep reach into society.
总体而言，韩国人对三星的看法好坏参半。对于这家企业的成功，我们确实感到骄傲，因为它的成功与过去几十年里韩国的崛起密不可分。然而对于三星在社会中深入的影响，我们也感到很警惕。
In recent years Samsung has taken heat for health problems among former plant workers. But the most angry criticism of Samsung — and other chaebols — has come when they’ve tried to compete with small-scale and independent businesses. In early 2012, Lee Kun-hee’s daughter and the head of the Shilla hotel, Lee Boo-jin, pulled out of a high-end bakery and café company amid criticism that the chaebols were devouring independent neighborhood bakeries. Chaebols that invested in car-repair shops or convenience stores also gave in to deteriorating public opinion and either folded or delayed their plans.
在最近几年里，三星因为前工厂员工的健康问题而受到了抨击。不过三星及其他财阀受到的最愤怒的批评，源于它们尝试与小规模的独立企业展开竞争。2012年初，李健熙的女儿及新罗酒店(Shilla)负责人李富真(Lee Boo-jin)推出了一家高端烘焙和咖啡企业，招致了财阀毁灭独立的社区烘焙店的批评。投资汽车修理店或便利店的财阀，也因为恶化的舆论而做出让步，要么放弃要么延迟了计划。
Back in the mid-1990s, Samsung rolled out an ad campaign with the slogan, “No one remembers who came in second place.” In 2013, some 90 percent of the profits from Samsung’s subsidiaries came from Samsung Electronics, most of that from the smartphone division. If there were a slump in the smartphone market, Samsung Electronics would have huge difficulties, which would affect the entire conglomerate. The chances are quite high that this, in turn, would create a domino effect that would be a blow to the national economy.
在上世纪90年代中叶，三星推出了一场广告活动，广告语是“没人记得谁是第二名”。2013年，三星集团旗下子公司的利润中，约有90%来自三星电子，而其中多数利润来自智能手机部门。如果智能手机市场出现疲软，三星电子就会遭遇巨大的困难，进而影响整个集团。还有一个相当大的可能性就是，接下来这会引发多米诺骨牌效应，打击整个国民经济。
As Samsung prepares for its post-Lee Kun-hee future, South Korea needs to prepare for a post-Samsung future. Just like any other company, Samsung can fail, and if that happens, how will the South Korean economy overcome the shock? If we don’t decrease our over-reliance on the chaebols and prepare to let smaller, dynamic start-ups fill the gaps in their place, it won’t.
在三星为李健熙身后的未来做准备之时，韩国也需要为后三星时代的未来做准备。就像其他任何企业一样，三星也会失败。而一旦那一幕发生，韩国经济该如何克服相关冲击？如果我们不减轻过度依赖财阀的状况，准备让规模较小但很活跃的创业企业填补它们的位置，韩国就无法面对冲击。