WASHINGTON — THIS week, Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, will address the United Nations General Assembly. His message is likely to be a sharp change from the adolescent belligerence of his hard-line predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Mr. Rouhani is a genuine reformer — but his desire to move Iran in a new direction should not blind the United States to the difficulties of achieving a diplomatic solution.
华盛顿——本周，伊朗新总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)将在联合国大会上发言。相对于其强硬派前任马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)表现出来的青春期式好斗，鲁哈尼的态度可能会是一个急转弯。他是一位真正的改革者，但他带领伊朗走上一条新道路的意愿，不应蒙蔽美国，使我们看不到达成外交解决方案的难度。
Mr. Rouhani has hinted that he is willing to compromise on aspects of Iran’s nuclear program for the sake of repairing relations with the rest of the world and having economic sanctions on Iran removed. But he has also warned that he cannot hold off his hard-line rivals forever, and it is unclear whether the Iranians will be willing to make the kind of concessions that America and its allies want. Ultimately, it is the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, not Mr. Rouhani, who would make the final decision on a deal. He has shown little inclination for one, although recent statements from the leadership offer hope that their position may be softening.
鲁哈尼已经暗示，他愿意在伊朗核计划的某些方面作出妥协，以修复跟世界其他地区的关系，并使针对伊朗的经济制裁得到解除。但他也警告称，他无法永远挡住国内的强硬派政治对手，而且我们尚不清楚，伊朗方面是否愿意做出美国及其盟国想要的那种让步。最终而言，任何协议的最后拍板人将是伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉·阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)，而不是鲁哈尼。哈梅内伊迄今没有表现出什么想要谈判解决的倾向，尽管领导层近期的一些声明似乎显示，他们的立场也许在软化。
If it cannot reach a diplomatic deal, America will face a choice between two alternatives: using force to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear arsenal or containing a nuclear Iran until its regime collapses from its own dysfunction.
如果不能达成外交协议，美国将面临两种选择：使用武力阻止伊朗建立核武库，或者对拥有核武的伊朗进行遏制，直至其政权因自身运作不良而崩溃。
It is going to be a difficult choice. For that reason, we need to start thinking about it now. We cannot afford to have our diplomatic efforts collapse suddenly and, as in Syria, be forced to lunge forward unprepared.
这将是一个艰难的选择，所以我们现在就得开始考虑。我们不能让美国的外交努力突然崩溃，然后像在叙利亚问题上那样，被迫在没有准备的情况下仓促投入行动。
Sizing up the two alternatives, I favor containment over military operations. I say that, however, understanding that each option has more drawbacks than advantages, that there are circumstances when a military strike would be preferable, and that those who advocate the military option merit a hearing.
对比这两个备选方案，我赞成采取遏制手段，而不是军事行动。但我这样说的前提是：我明白这两个方案的缺点都比优点更多，而且在有些情况下，军事打击更可取一些，主张发动军事打击的意见也值得听一听。
This may seem incongruous, coming from me. I supported an invasion of Iraq 10 years ago in principle, but not the Bush administration’s handling of it. I was moved by the plight of Iraqis under Saddam Hussein’s horrific “republic of fear,” as the writer Kanan Makiya called it; by the widespread belief that he was reconstituting his nuclear program; and by his long pattern of reckless, even suicidal, aggression.
这些话出自我之口，可能会显得有点矛盾。10年前，我在原则上支持美国入侵伊拉克，但我不支持布什政府的具体处理方式。说服我的因素包括：伊拉克人在作家卡南·马基亚(Kanan Makiya)所称的萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)掌权的可怕的“恐惧共和国”受苦受难；人们普遍认为萨达姆正在重建核设施；而且他长期表现出鲁莽、甚至是自杀式的攻击行为。
Unpleasant as Tehran has been over the years, it has not demonstrated anything like Mr. Hussein’s recklessness. And unlike in 2003, very few Americans would support a full-scale invasion. Therefore the military option against Iran would have to stop with air power. But there is a considerable risk that airstrikes alone would not be enough to strip Iran of its nuclear program.
尽管德黑兰多年来的行为也令人不快，但它没有表现出任何萨达姆那样的鲁莽。同时，与2003年不同，现在几乎没有美国人会支持全面入侵行动，因此，针对伊朗的军事行动将仅限于空中打击。但是，一个显著的风险是，仅靠空袭不足以终结伊朗的核计划。
Even after a devastating American military strike, I fear the Iranians would pick themselves up and rebuild — and would withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, evict any remaining nuclear inspectors and deploy an actual arsenal to deter a future American strike.
即使在美国对伊朗进行了毁灭性的军事打击后，我也觉得伊朗人会振作起来，重新制造核武器——并且还会退出《不扩散核武器条约》(Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)，驱逐所有核查人员，并且部署真正的核武库以吓阻美国，使美国不敢再次发动军事打击。
Mr. Hussein offers a sobering precedent. He tried to rebuild his nuclear program twice: successfully after Israel obliterated it in 1981 and again (at least initially) after the United States demolished part of it in 1991.
萨达姆的先例发人深省，他曾两次试图重建自己的核设施：第一次是以色列1981年摧毁其核设施之后，他成功了；第二次是美国1991年拆毁其部分核设施之后，他至少在重建初期获得了成功。
We may not know where all of Iran’s nuclear facilities are, and some are so heavily defended that we may not fully destroy them. In the 1990s, American intelligence officials believed that they had a good handle on Iraq’s nuclear facilities, only to find out that they were wrong.
我们可能不知道伊朗所有核设施的位置，而且部分设施如此加固防护，以至于我们可能无法彻底将其摧毁。20世纪90年代时，美国情报官员曾以为自己对伊拉克的核设施相当了解，后来才发现自己搞错了。
A second concern is that the Iranians almost certainly would retaliate. They might fire missiles at American bases in the Middle East, or persuade allies like Hezbollah and Palestinian Islamic Jihad to fire rockets at Israel. But my biggest fear is that they would embark on a prolonged terrorist campaign against Americans, including attacks on the homeland.
第二个担忧是，伊朗方面几乎肯定会采取报复行动。他们可能向美国在中东的基地发射导弹，或说服真主党和巴勒斯坦伊斯兰圣战组织等盟友向以色列发射火箭弹，而我最担心的是，他们将针对美国人开展长期的恐怖活动，包括在美国本土发起攻击。
The Iranians have said as much, and the United States intelligence community believes that they have expanded their capacity to do so since their failed attempt to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States in 2011.
伊朗人自己就是这么说的，而且美国情报界认为，自伊朗人2011年暗杀沙特驻美国大使的尝试失败以来，他们已加强了在美国本土的行动能力。
These problems suggest that an American air campaign to destroy Iran’s nuclear facilities would be just the beginning, not the end, of a war with Iran.
这些问题似乎表明，如果美国为了摧毁伊朗的核设施而发动空中打击战役，那将是美伊战争的开始，而不是结束。
If Iran were to rebuild, the president of the United States would not be able to just shrug his shoulders. If Iran retaliated, and killed Americans, the president would almost certainly have to respond, if not escalate.
如果伊朗重建核设施，美国总统将不能只是耸耸肩就算了。如果伊朗采取报复行动，导致一些美国人丧命，总统几乎肯定会做出回应，甚至可能采取升级行动。
I fear that if we started using force in the belief that we could keep it limited, we would either fail and find ourselves facing an enraged, nuclear Iran, or be dragged into another large-scale, protracted war in the Middle East.
我担心，如果我们在动武之时以为自己可以把军事行动限制在一定的范围内，那么我们将要么失败，到头来面对一个被激怒的、拥有核武的伊朗，要么在中东卷入又一场大规模的长期战争。
Containment is hardly a perfect policy, but I see the costs and risks as more easily mitigated than those of war.
遏制算不上十全十美的选择，但我觉得它的成本和风险都比战争更容易缓解。
Containment is not appeasement. It would not mean simply letting the Iranians do what they wanted. That is not how we contained the Soviet Union — or Cuba, or North Korea or even Iran in the decades since the 1979 revolution.
遏制不是绥靖，它并不意味着让伊朗人为所欲为。我们对苏联、古巴、朝鲜的遏制，甚至在1979年伊斯兰革命之后的几十年里对伊朗的遏制，都能说明这一点。
Properly understood, containment would put pressure on Iran in various ways, to keep it on the defensive and to encourage the end of the regime. It would hold in place painful sanctions. It would include covert assistance to the Iranian opposition, cyberwarfare in response to Iran’s support for terrorism, and continued diplomatic isolation.
若得到正确理解，遏制将以各种方式对伊朗施压，让其处于守势，并促使伊朗政权崩溃。这意味着继续对伊朗实施使其痛苦的制裁，秘密援助伊朗的反对力量，用网络战回应伊朗对恐怖主义的支持，并继续在外交上孤立该国。
A bugbear raised by some is the notion that if Iran acquired nuclear weapons it would use them unprovoked or give them to terrorists. This is extremely unlikely.
有些人提出一个令人恐慌的想法，认为伊朗如果拥有了核武器，就会在未被激怒的情况下使用它们，或者把它们交给恐怖分子。这是极不可能的。
Over the years, the Iranian regime has shown itself to be vicious, murderous, anti-Semitic and anti-American. At times it has taken some real risks. But it has never shown itself to be irrational, reckless or suicidal. It has repeatedly shown great respect for American (and Israeli) military power and demonstrated a willingness to back down in the face of military retaliation. The Iranians have supported terrorism since 1979 and possessed weapons of mass destruction since 1989, but have never mixed the two for fear of retribution.
多年来，伊朗政权一直展现出凶狠危险、杀气腾腾、反犹太和反美姿态。有时还会冒一些真正的风险。但伊朗从未表现出不理智、鲁莽或者自杀倾向。它一再显示出对美国（以及以色列）军事实力的极大敬畏，并在面对军事报复的情况下表现出让步意愿。伊朗人从1979年起就一直支持恐怖主义，从1989年起拥有大规模杀伤性武器，但由于惧怕报复，从未将两者搞在一起。
In the cold war, the United States and the Soviet Union spent untold billions trying to guard against a surprise nuclear attack by the other — an attack that neither seriously contemplated. Indeed, historical research in the last two decades has shown that both sides actually made themselves less secure by obsessing about this worst-case phantom, exacerbating and even causing crises that could have ended in disaster.
冷战时期，美国和苏联都投入巨资，试图防御对方突然发动核攻击，而双方其实都没有认真考虑发动此类袭击。的确，对过去20年的历史研究显示，美苏双方实际上正是因为对这种最糟糕状况的噩梦念念不忘，才加剧甚至引发了一些可能导致灾难的危机，从而削弱了自己的安全。
Nevertheless, there are real issues with containment. Three of the most important are the dangers of crisis management with a nuclear Iran, the risk of additional proliferation and the likelihood that Iran will become more aggressive in promoting instability, insurgency and terrorism. None of these should be dismissed — but none should be seen as deal breakers, either.
但是，遏制也有一些实实在在的问题。最重要的三个问题是：对拥有核武的伊朗进行危机管理的危险、核进一步扩散的风险以及伊朗会更加咄咄逼人地破坏稳定、支持武装叛乱以及恐怖主义的可能性。这些问题都不应被忽视，但它们也都不应被视为否决遏制的理由。
America’s massive military superiority over Iran constitutes a huge advantage. In the case of proliferation, the central problem is Saudi Arabia (and possibly the United Arab Emirates), not Egypt or Turkey, and persuading the Saudis not to seek nuclear weapons should not be assumed to be impossible. And there are ways to fight state-sanctioned subversion and terrorism. Despite efforts since 1979, the Iranians have never managed to overthrow a foreign government or start an insurgency or a civil war. At most, they made bad situations (like Iraq) worse.
美国相对伊朗的庞大军事实力是一个巨大优势。在核扩散方面，核心问题是沙特阿拉伯（可能还有阿联酋），而不是埃及或者土耳其，而说服沙特放弃追求核武器也不应被认为是不可能的。打击有政府后台的颠覆和恐怖主义也是有办法的。尽管伊朗自1979年来多次尝试，但该国从未成功推翻一个外国政府，也从未成功挑起一场武装叛乱或内战。他们充其量是让糟糕的状况（比如伊拉克）变得更加糟糕。
Diplomacy has not yet run its course with Iran. Let’s hope that it triumphs. If it does not, we will have a terrible choice to make. To me, containment seems the least-bad option. But the worst choice would be to refuse to decide and instead have a strategy forced on us.
在伊朗问题上，外交手段还未用尽。让我们希望外交手段能获得成功。如果不能，我们就要做出可怕的选择。在我看来，遏制似乎是最不坏的选择。最糟糕的选择将是拒绝做决定，最后让局势迫使我们采取某种战略。