I received a voice mail from a 40-something woman, Cynthia, who requested a late-evening session because she worked long hours at her law firm. She said that I was one of the few therapists she had Googled who seemed to have the expertise to help her. In recent years I have noticed that when potential patients Google me, they discover my university faculty profile, where I list as a research interest the psychology of infidelity. They also find a YouTube clip of an interview with me from a documentary on infidelity. Thanks to Google I am getting more patients looking for someone they think of as an infidelity expert.
我收到一个四十岁左右女人的语音邮件，她叫辛西娅(Cynthia)，她想让我给她安排一个深夜疗程，因为她每天要在自己的法律事务所工作很长时间。她说，她在谷歌上搜索之后，发现我是少数几位似乎具有能帮助她的特长的心理医生之一。近些年，我注意到，当潜在客户在谷歌上搜索我时，他们会在大学教职员工资料中看到我的简介，我在其中把对婚姻不忠的心理研究列为研究兴趣之一。他们还在YouTube上找到一个采访视频片段，来自一部关于婚姻不忠的纪录片。由于谷歌，越来越多寻找婚姻不忠专家的人找到了我。
Cynthia was married to a successful software engineer and they had two children in grade school. She and her husband were both busy professional people who spent all their free time raising their children. They rarely talked to each other one-on-one anymore. Cynthia reported that their sex life had never been all that exciting. She said she used to think that the mediocre sex didn’t matter to her; her husband was still devoted to her and their children.
辛西娅的丈夫是一名成功的软件工程师，他们有两个孩子，都在上小学。她和丈夫都有自己的事业，非常忙碌，所有的空闲时间都用来照顾孩子。现在他们很少有空单独谈心。辛西娅说，他们的性生活从来都不太令人兴奋。她说，她本来觉得，平淡的性生活对她来说无关紧要，她丈夫仍然很爱她和孩子们。
Cynthia had never thought of herself as the type to have an affair — until she met Neal, a colleague in her firm, also married with young children, with whom she used to go for lunch. As they got to know each other, feelings developed — and they became more than just friends. It turned out to be the best sex of her life and they fell in love.
辛西娅从没想过自己是会出轨的那种人，直到遇见尼尔(Neal)。尼尔是她公司的同事，也已经结婚，有年幼的孩子，之前他们经常一起吃午餐。混熟之后，他们的感情加深了，超越了朋友关系。与尼尔的性爱是她一生中最好的性爱，他们相爱了。
Neither of them wanted to break up their families. They both felt they “loved” their spouses even if they were no longer “in love” with them. Cynthia and Neal had an understanding that they would let the affair run its course and eventually go their separate ways. Confused and guilt-ridden about living a double life, Cynthia looked forward to a time when the affair would end and she could stop being deceitful.
他们都不想破坏自己的家庭，都感觉“爱”自己的配偶，尽管“不在热恋中”。辛西娅和尼尔都知道，他们会让这份恋情走完自己的历程，最终分道扬镳。辛西娅对自己的双重生活感到困惑和愧疚，期待婚外恋结束，好停止背叛。
One day, Cynthia arrived at work to learn that Neal had collapsed on the treadmill during his morning run and died of a heart attack. She was in shock. She felt like sobbing uncontrollably but couldn’t allow herself to; showing her grief might expose the affair.
有一天，辛西娅到公司后得知，尼尔晨跑时，在跑步机上昏倒，心脏病发作去世。她感到极为震惊，很想失控大哭，但又不能让自己这样——流露自己的悲痛可能会暴露他们的私情。
Months went by and Cynthia’s grief was unabated. She had lost the love of her life and felt she would be forever forlorn. She needed to share her feelings with someone and concluded that only a psychotherapist could possibly be sympathetic to her predicament. This is when she came to me.
几个月过去后，辛西娅的悲痛没有减弱。她失去了一生的挚爱，感觉自己会一直痛苦下去。她需要向别人倾诉自己的感受，认定只有心理医生可能会同情她的窘境。所以她找到了我。
My job initially seemed straightforward: to help Cynthia mourn a loss she could share with no other. But as the months passed I found myself strangely unsympathetic. The more I heard about Neal from Cynthia the less I liked him. He was a compulsive womanizer. He was indifferent to the guilt and confusion that Cynthia felt. He proselytized that everyone lied in marriage, that lying was indeed the key to marital happiness. He made Cynthia feel that her misgivings were naïve, moralistic and old-fashioned. He argued that infidelity was the only way to compensate for the sexual boredom that eventually set in during a long-term relationship.
起初，我的工作似乎很简单：帮助辛西娅哀悼她失去的挚爱，这个秘密她不能告诉别人。但是几个月过后，我发现自己很奇怪地没有对她产生同情。辛西娅越说尼尔，我越不喜欢他。他喜欢主动拈花惹草。他对辛西娅的愧疚和迷惑无动于衷。他诱劝说，每个人在婚姻里都撒谎，撒谎实际上是婚姻幸福的关键。他让辛西娅感觉自己的疑虑是幼稚的，道学气的，而且已经过时。他辩称，不忠是弥补性爱乏味的唯一途径，而在长期恋爱关系中，性爱乏味是必然会出现的。
Cynthia didn’t entirely buy Neal’s arguments, but they generated enough doubt to help her justify her behavior to herself. Maybe her guilt was irrational, she thought, and she should just enjoy the ride and hope she didn’t get caught.
辛西娅并不完全接受尼尔的观点，但尼尔的话的确让辛西娅有所动摇，让她为自己的不忠找到了借口。她慢慢觉得，也许自己的愧疚是不理性的，她应该享受迷人的性爱，同时寄希望于不要被抓到。
Freud claimed that people often split love and lust. It is not uncommon to have great sex with someone who isn’t lovable, or to have a trustworthy loving relationship with someone with whom the sex is boring. Recent empirical research shows that individuals who exhibit high degrees of narcissism, like Neal, have difficulty integrating love and lust in a single relationship. This is also true of individuals, like Cynthia, who are “avoidantly attached” — they can’t tolerate the vulnerability of being intimate with someone on whom they are dependent, and so they create a self-protective distance from their partner.
弗洛伊德认为，人们经常把爱和性欲分开。和并不可爱的人发生极好的性爱，与值得信赖的亲密恋人性爱乏味——这两种情况都不罕见。最近的实证研究表明，表现出高度自恋的人，比如尼尔，很难把爱和性欲投入同一段恋情。辛西娅这样的人也是如此，他们是“回避依恋型的”——他们无法忍受与自己依赖的人十分亲密所带来的脆弱，为了自我保护，他们与伴侣保持一定的距离。
In the traditional Freudian approach to psychotherapy, I would have kept my negative feelings about Neal to myself. But in the newer, more “relational” approaches to which I subscribe, it is thought to be therapeutic to disclose your true feelings, as doing so brings about a more honest and authentic relationship between therapist and patient. So I shared my thoughts: Neal seemed deficient in empathy, despite his charm, while her husband seemed loyal and caring in comparison.
如果按照传统的弗洛伊德心理治疗法，我会把自己对尼尔的负面感觉藏在心底。但是依照我支持的这种更加“产生关联”的新疗法，说出你的真实感受是有益治疗的，因为这样做能让医患关系更真诚。所以我跟她说了我的想法：尼尔虽然迷人，但似乎缺乏移情能力，相比之下，她丈夫显得忠诚而体贴。
Cynthia responded defensively. I was being horribly unfair to Neal, she said. He was an exceptionally special person, she insisted, who had been trapped in a relationship with a “bitchy” wife. I asked Cynthia to consider the possibility that Neal’s wife became a “bitch” because she begrudgingly submitted to his perennial philandering to avoid breaking up her family.
辛西娅反驳了我的看法。她说我那么说对尼尔很不公平。她坚持认为，尼尔是个非常特别的人，他被困在与“专横”的妻子的婚姻中。我让辛西娅考虑一下这种可能性：尼尔的妻子变得“专横”是因为她得无可奈何地容忍丈夫不断沾花惹草，以免家庭破裂。
This gave Cynthia pause. After a moment, a pained look flashed across her face. She conceded that her own spouse, like Neal’s, had probably intuited the affair. In fact, she recalled, her husband had recently said to her, seemingly out of the blue, that he could understand if she had an affair, given how uninspired their sex life was. In an instant, Cynthia was seeing her husband anew, as the devoted and compassionate man that he was. Rather than angrily confronting her with an accusation, he had subtly indicated that he knew about the affair, expressed his understanding of why it might have happened, and was waiting for her to make the next move. Would Neal have been capable of such restraint, selflessness and care?
辛西娅沉默了一会儿，脸上滑过痛苦的表情。她承认，和尼尔的妻子一样，她丈夫很可能也察觉到了她的婚外情。她回忆说，实际上，最近她丈夫突然对她说，如果她有婚外情，他能理解，因为他们的性生活平淡乏味。一瞬间，辛西娅从全新的角度看待丈夫，看到了他忠诚、富于同情心的一面，而他本来就是这样的人。他不是愤怒地谴责她，而是巧妙地指出，他知道她的婚外情，并且表达出自己理解这件事何以出现，正等待她采取下一步行动。要是换成尼尔，他能这样隐忍、无私和关爱吗？
Cynthia decided to ask her husband if he would join her for couples therapy (with another therapist), to work on improving their sex life. He agreed, and as Cynthia’s therapeutic focus shifted from Neal to improving the romantic intimacy in her marriage, the work of mourning her lover came to an end.
辛西娅决定问她丈夫是否愿意和她一起（在另一位心理医生那里）接受夫妻心理治疗，以改进性生活。他同意了，由于辛西娅的治疗重点从尼尔身上转移到了改善婚姻中的性亲密关系，哀悼爱人的工作结束了。
What do you do when the best sex of your life is outside of marriage, but you still want the emotional security of a stable long-term relationship with someone you love and trust? I’ve worked with a few couples over the years who have been able to make an open marriage work, but most people, even those who think they might want such an arrangement, are too insecure and jealous to do so.
如果你生命中最好的性爱发生在婚外，但你仍想与信赖的爱人保持长期稳定的关系，以获得情感上的安全，那么，你会怎么做？这些年，来我这里治疗的患者中，的确有几对维持开放式婚姻的夫妻，但是大部分人都会觉得这种方式会令人感到不安全和嫉妒，甚至包括那些以为自己可能也想采取这种方式的人。