Scientists haven’t yet found a way to mend a broken heart, but they’re edging closer to manipulating memory and downloading instructions from a computer right into a brain.
目前科学家尚无良策能修补受伤的心灵，但在人工调控记忆和由计算机向大脑载入指令的课题上，他们正日益接近目标。
Researchers from the Riken-M.I.T. Center for Neural Circuit Genetics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology took us closer to this science-fiction world of brain tweaking last week when they said they were able to create a false memory in a mouse.
上周，麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology，缩写为MIT)下属的日本理研—麻省理工神经回路基因研究中心(Riken-M.I.T. Center for Neural Circuit Genetics)的研究人员称，他们能够在老鼠脑中生成一组虚拟记忆。这一成果，让我们向人工调节大脑的科幻世界靠得更近了一些。
The scientists reported in the journal Science that they caused mice to remember receiving an electrical shock in one location, when in reality they were zapped in a completely different place. The researchers weren’t able to create entirely new thoughts, but they applied good or bad feelings to memories that already existed.
在刊登于《科学》(Science)期刊上的研究报告里，该团队写道，他们的实验让老鼠产生了在某地点遭电击的记忆，但实际上电击发生在完全不同的地方。研究者尚不能创造出全新的思想，但可以将积极或消极的情绪加于已有记忆之上。
“It wasn’t so much writing a memory from scratch, it was basically connecting two different types of memories. We took a neutral memory, and we artificially updated that to make it a negative memory,” said Steve Ramirez, one of the M.I.T. neuroscientists on the project.
“这项实验算不上从零开始将新记忆写入大脑；其实质是将两种不同类型的记忆关联起来。我们用人工方法，对一组中性记忆加以更新，把它变成了消极的记忆。”参与这个科研项目的MIT神经科学家史蒂夫·拉米雷斯(Steve Ramirez)说。
It may sound insignificant and perhaps not a nice way to treat mice, but it is not a dramatic leap to imagine that one day this research could lead to computer-manipulation of the mind for things like the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, Mr. Ramirez said.
听上去，这一成果似乎意义不甚显著，况且对老鼠也未免有失厚道。然而拉米雷斯说，基于目前的成果，设想它有朝一日发展成计算机调控精神的手段，并应用于创伤后应激障碍(post-traumatic stress disorder)的治疗等方面，这样的技术飞跃将不会让人觉得突兀。
Technologists are already working on brain-computer interfaces, which will allow us to interact with our smartphones and computers simply by using our minds. And there are already gadgets that read our thoughts and allow us to do things like dodge virtual objects in a computer game or turn switches on and off with a thought.
目前，技术人员正致力于开发人脑—计算机界面(brain-computer interface)，它将让我们仅通过思维就能与智能手机和计算机进行交互。现在，已经有一些新奇的设备能够读取我们所想的事情，让我们脑中念头一动，就能做出躲避电脑游戏里的虚拟物件，或按动一个开关这样的事情。
But the scientists who are working on memory manipulation are the ones who seem to be pushing the boundaries of what we believe is possible. Sure, it sounds like movie fantasy right now, but don’t laugh off the imagination of Hollywood screenwriters; sometimes the movies can be a great predictor of things to come.
但相形之下，上述这些研究记忆控制的科学家，正在突破的是我们观念中可能与不可能之间的界限。的确，这听上去好似电影里才有的梦幻场景，但是我们不应对好莱坞电影编剧的想象力一笑了之。有些时候，电影能很好地预言未来将出现的事物。
In the movie, “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” a character played by Jim Carrey uses a service that erases memories to wipe his brain of his former girlfriend, played by Kate Winslet.
电影《暖暖内含光》(Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind)中，金·凯瑞(Jim Carrey)扮演的角色接受了记忆清除服务，从他的大脑中抹去凯特·温斯莱特(Kate Winslet)扮演的前女友。
But it seems the movie’s screenwriter, Charlie Kaufman, was selling science short.
不过现在看来，该片编剧查理·考夫曼(Charlie Kaufman)还是对科学进展过于低估了。
“The one thing that the movie “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” gets wrong, is that they are erasing an entire memory,” said Mr. Ramirez of M.I.T. “I think we can do better, while keeping the image of Kate Winslet, we can get rid of the sad part of that memory.”
“《暖暖内含光》一片没搞对的事情是把一段记忆完全抹杀了，”MIT的拉米雷斯说。“我认为我们还能做得更好：可以在保留凯特·温斯莱特音容笑貌的前提下，去掉记忆中令人伤心的部分。”
Hollywood and science-fiction writers, of course, have had fun with memory manipulation over the years.
当然，多年来好莱坞和科幻小说作者们对记忆操控这一主题已有了很多发掘探索。
In the film “Total Recall,” which is based on a short story by Philip K. Dick, a character played by Arnold Schwarzenegger receives a memory implant of a fake vacation to Mars. In “The Matrix,” characters can download new skills like languages or fighting techniques to their mind, much like downloading a file to a computer.
在改编自菲利普·K·迪克(Philip K. Dick)短篇小说的电影《全面回忆》(Total Recall)中，阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)饰演的角色被植入了一段火星度假的虚假记忆。电影《黑客帝国》(The Matrix)里的人物能将语言和格斗术之类的新技能下载到脑中，和计算机下载文件如出一辙。
Far-fetched? Perhaps, and we’re not yet fighting our robot overlords as the humans were in “The Matrix,” but researchers really are exploring ways to upload new information to the brain.
太不可思议？或许如此，毕竟我们还没到像《黑客帝国》里的人类一样与机器人统治者作战的地步。但科研人员却在切实地探索向大脑上传新信息的技术手段。
In 2011, scientists working in collaboration with Boston University and A.T.R. Computational Neuroscience Laboratories in Kyoto, Japan, published a paper on a process called Decoded Neurofeedback, or “DecNef,” which sends signals to the brain through a functional magnetic resonance imaging machine, or FMRI, that can alter a person’s brain activity pattern. In time, these scientists believe they could teach people how to play a musical instrument while they sleep, learn a new language or master a sport, all by “uploading” information to the brain.
2011年，参与波士顿大学(University of Boston)和日本京都国际电信基础技术研究所计算神经科学实验室(A.T.R. Computational Neuroscience Laboratories)合作项目的科学家发表了一篇论文，讨论了名为“神经反馈解码”(Decoaded Neurofeedback)的过程，即通过功能性磁共振成像(functional magnetic resonance imaging)设备向大脑发送信号，从而改变脑部活动的节律。这些科学家相信，假以时日，可以通过向大脑“上传”信息的方式在睡梦中教人学会演奏乐器，帮助使用者学习新语言或体育运动要领。
Writing to the brain could allow us to interact with our computers, or other human beings, just by thinking about it.
借助向大脑写入信息的技术，我们有可能只需念头一动，就能同计算机乃至他人进行交互。
In February, Dr. Miguel A. Nicolelis, a neuroscientist at Duke University successfully connected the brains of two rats over the Internet, allowing them to communicate with their minds so when one rat pressed a lever, the other one did the same. The rats were in different locations, one at Duke University, in North Carolina, and another in a laboratory in Natal, Brazil.Dr. Nicolelis said he has recently performed other experiments in his lab where he has connected the brains of four mice in what he calls a “brain net” allowing them to share information over the Internet. In another experiment, he took two monkeys and gave them both half of a piece of information to successfully move a robotic arm, which required them to share the information through their brain.
2月份，杜克大学(Duke University)的神经科学家米格尔·A·尼科利斯(Miguel A. Nicolelis)博士成功地通过互联网连接了两只大鼠的脑部，让它们用头脑进行交流：当一只鼠按下杠杆的时候，另一只也会照做。两只大鼠分处两地，一只位于北卡罗来纳州的杜克大学，另一只则在巴西的纳塔尔。尼科利斯博士说，他近期还在实验室中进行了其他实验。其中一个是将四只老鼠的大脑连结起来，形成他口中的“大脑网络”(brain net)，使之可以通过互联网共享信息。另一组实验下，他取了两只猴子，令其移动一只机械臂，但只给了每只猴子完成此操作所需信息中的一半，要求它们通过大脑间信息共享来实现目标。
Last week scientists at Harvard Medical School created a brain-to-brain interface that enables a human to move a rat’s tail just by thinking about it.
上周，哈佛大学医学院(Harvard Medical School)的科学家开发出了一种脑对脑界面(brain-to-brain interface)，实现了让人仅通过思维就可以移动一只大鼠的尾巴。
Of course, in all the movies about brain technology and enhancing memories there is usually a downside. In “Total Recall,” the character has a difficult time distinguishing between reality and his fantasy adventure. This leads to mayhem. In “Eternal Sunshine,” after Mr. Carrey’s character erases his memories, they reappear in a jumble. Hilarity (and insight into love and loss) ensues.
当然，凡是涉及到大脑相关技术和记忆人工处理的电影里，通常都会出现这种技术的负面效果。《全面回忆》的主角为了分清现实和虚幻的经历而吃尽苦头，并因此引发极大混乱。《暖暖内含光》里，金·凯瑞扮演的角色虽清除了记忆，但它们却如乱麻般重新浮现，引出了不少可笑情节，当然还有对爱情和人生得失的感悟。
But some researchers don’t appear to be worried about that sort of thing. In his book, “Beyond Boundaries: The New Neuroscience of Connecting Brains with Machines — and How It Will Change Our Lives,” Dr. Nicolelis said he believes it is possible that humans will be able to communicate wirelessly without words or sound, where brain waves are transmitted over the Internet.
不过有些研究者却并不担心此类情况出现。尼科利斯博士在他创作的《跨越界限：联接脑和机器的新神经科学——以及它将如何改变我们的生活》(Beyond Boundaries: The New Neuroscience of Connecting Brains with Machines — and How It Will Change Our Lives)一书中写道，他相信人类将来能摆脱文字或语音，以通过互联网传输脑电波的方式进行无线通信。
“I think this is the real frontier of human communication in the future. We already can get our monkeys, and even humans, to move devices just by thinking,” he said. “Once you can write to the brain, I can imagine the same type of logic working for communication where your thoughts and a message will be communicated to another human being and they will be able to understand it.”
“我认为，这会是未来人类通讯技术的真正前沿。我们已经能让猴子，甚至人，用思想来操作一些设备，”他说道。“一旦做到了向大脑写入信息，我能想见，同样的原理就能在通信方面施展作用，让你的思想和讯息能传递到其他人类个体，而且能让他们直接理解。”
It looks like mending that broken heart, through manipulation of our memories, might be here closer than we think.
看来，用人工处理记忆的方法修补受伤的心灵，或许会比我们想像中要来得更快一些。