“Families,” a therapist once told me. “They keep us in business.”
一个心理治疗师曾经告诉我：“家庭让我们一直有事干。”
Writers would most likely say the same. The title alone of Chris Offutt’s memoir, “My Father, the Pornographer,” implies a lifetime of material. Res ipsa loquitur, as they say in tort law. The thing speaks for itself.
作家们可能也会说同样的话，克里斯·奥法特(Chris Offutt)的回忆录，《我的爸爸是色情作家》(My Father, the Pornographer)暗示了充满猛料的一生。正如民法术语 ――“事实自证”(Res ipsa loquitur)，这个书名本身就能说明不少问题了。
If I am counting correctly, Andrew Jefferson Offutt V wrote over 370 works of published pornography before he died in 2013, and hundreds more that never made it into print. He could write a book in three days, if need be. He kept his raw material in three-ring notebooks, 80 percent of them devoted to descriptions of female body parts. (Talk about binders of women.) His specialty and personal passion was sadomasochism, but he could write with commanding dexterity about a cascade of fetishes and perversions, all in a seemingly limitless variety of settings.
安德鲁·杰斐逊·奥法特五世于2013年逝世，如果我没数错，他生前出版了370本色情著作，还有数百部未发表作品。如果有需要，他可以三天就写一本书。他把新鲜素材记在活页本上，其中80%是对女性身体的描写（真的是整册整册的女人）。他特别擅长也特别热衷写虐恋，但他也能以极高的技巧写出大量恋物与变态恋情，故事可以发生在各种各样的环境之下。
“Dad wrote pirate porn, ghost porn, science fiction porn, vampire porn, historical porn, time-travel porn, secret agent porn, thriller porn, zombie porn, and Atlantis porn,” Mr. Offutt writes. And that was just in 1972.
“爸爸写海盗色情、鬼魂色情、科幻色情、吸血鬼色情、历史色情、时空旅行色情、特工色情、惊悚色情、僵尸色情，还有亚特兰蒂斯色情，”奥法特写道。那还只是1972年的事。
There’s a reason Mr. Offutt knows his father’s oeuvre so well. Years before he died, Andy Offutt wrote a secret will that charged his oldest son with the dismantling and disposal of the contents of his home office. “On you, Chris, I decided this task and onus must fall,” he wrote, “and this is oh-fficial.” 
奥法特熟悉父亲的全部作品是有理由的。安迪·奥法特去世前数年，曾经立过一份秘密遗嘱，让长子负责打开并处理他家中书房里的东西。“克里斯，我把这个任务和重担交给你，”他写道，“这是正式的决定。”
What this means, practically speaking, is that the book begins with Mr. Offutt — the author of a novel, two short-story collections, two previous memoirs and a host of TV screenplays (for “True Blood,” “Weeds,” “Treme”) — driving back to his childhood home in Haldeman, Ky., first to see his father die, and then to go on a major spelunking expedition in his father’s office, which had barely been touched in a decade.
奥法特出版过一本小说，两个短篇小说集，两部回忆录，并且创作过若干电视剧集，如《真爱如血》(True Blood)、《单身毒妈》(Weeds)和《忧愁河上桥》(Treme)，这份遗嘱意味着他得开车回到小时候的家，肯塔基州的哈尔德曼，一方面料理父亲的丧事，然后在父亲尘封了将近十年的办公室里探险。
As this memoir buzzes along, though, what becomes clear is that the real obscenity of Mr. Offutt’s childhood had little to do with his father’s profession. It had to do with his father’s cruelty, and the fragile, frightening nature of his ego, big as the Hindenburg and every bit as flammable. “You’ll always be afraid of him, you know,” Mr. Offutt’s brother, Jeff, once told him. It wasn’t until their father died that the author realized he was right.
正然而，如这本回忆录所暗示的，奥法特童年时期的真正痛苦和父亲的职业关系甚微，而是和父亲的残酷有关，他的个性脆弱而又可怕，他的自我则像兴登堡飞船那么大，而且暴躁易怒，点火就着。“你害怕他，总在提心吊胆，”奥法特的弟弟杰夫曾经如是说。父亲死后，克里斯·奥法特才发现，弟弟的话是对的。
With “My Father, the Pornographer,” Mr. Offutt attempts to make sense of the narrowly rational man who terrorized his family and led a semi-secret professional life. I took it in in two hungry sittings, which I’m guessing is how long it took Andy Offutt to dispatch his bottles of bourbon. I am not sure he deserved such a generous reminiscence from his son. But at 57, Chris Offutt is ruminative and melancholy. He’s long outgrown the need to be angry.
在《我的爸爸是色情作家》一书中，奥法特试着写出一个不怎么理性的男人如何恐吓着全家，职业生活也是半保密的。我带着这本书去参加了两次节食静坐，我猜安迪·奥法特用不了这么长的时间就要打开波旁威士忌了。我无法确定他是否值得儿子为他写下这样慷慨的回忆录。但是57岁的克里斯·奥法特已经变得多思而善感。他已成熟，无需再去愤怒。
Andy Offutt feuded with just about everyone he knew, including his children. He made it plain that he didn’t even like children, which is a shame, because he had four. (Catholic.) He seemed to tolerate marriage slightly better, but only because his wife was well practiced in the art of self-annihilation. (She typed his manuscripts.) When he first made the choice to be a professional writer at 36, abandoning his job as a traveling insurance salesman, a smog of anxiety descended over the house. As he pecked away at his typewriter, his children feared speaking too loudly, laughing too loudly, even urinating too loudly.
安迪·奥法特与身边的所有人都处不好，包括自己的孩子。他坦陈自己不喜欢孩子，这可真是糟糕，因为信奉天主教的他有四个孩子。他对婚姻的容忍度似乎要好一点，但这只是因为他的妻子擅长自动消失的艺术（她用打字机帮他打手稿）。36岁那年，他第一次有了成为职业作家的机会，于是放弃了旅行保险销售员的工作，从那时起，一团焦虑的阴云就笼罩在他们的家庭上空。当他在打字机上敲敲打打的时候，孩子们都不敢大声说笑，甚至都不敢大声小便。
Only in his late 30s did Mr. Offutt seem to realize that his father was suffering from a “genuine psychological malady.” He never says precisely what it is. But any armchair diagnostician with the latest D.S.M. could make a few educated guesses.
快到40岁的时候，克里斯·奥法特似乎意识到父亲患有“真正的精神疾患”。他一直没能说清那时什么，但是任何受过最新版D.S.M精神疾病分类学培训的人都不难做出几个有理有据的推断。
During their childhoods, Mr. Offutt and his siblings certainly had a dim notion of what their father did for a living. Though he was ostensibly a writer of science-fiction and fantasy novels (he published 30 works in those genres, so this was hardly a lie), the house was “seething with sexuality,” and there were rumors throughout the county about his true vocation. When the family attended science-fiction and fantasy conventions — their only family holidays — other attendees spoke openly and admiringly of the books Andy wrote as John Cleve, his favorite porn nom de plume (one of 17).
整个童年时期，关于父亲以何为生，克里斯·奥法特与弟妹们只是模糊地知道一点。尽管他表面上是科幻和奇幻小说作家（他在这两个类型之下出版过30部作品，所以倒也不算说谎），但是整栋房子“充满性爱气息”，在他们生活的镇上，关于他真正职业的传言也是沸沸扬扬。一家人参加科幻与奇幻大会时——这是全家度假的唯一机会——其他参加者公然以赞美的口吻说起安迪以“约翰·克里夫”(John Cleve)为笔名创作的作品——这是他写色情小说时最心爱的笔名（他一共有17个笔名）。
But it really isn’t until halfway through the book that Mr. Offutt starts to discuss, in any kind of detail, the contents of his father’s office. The volume and nature of porn he discovers is astonishing — 1,800 pounds of it, once it’s been boxed and stored — and much of it is extremely dark, revealing a taste for torture and extreme violence toward women. Andy Offutt’s comics, never published, were particularly upsetting. “Looking at them made my stomach hurt,” his son writes.
但是这本回忆录写到一半，奥法特才开始详细说起父亲办公室里的东西。他发现的色情文学作品数量与质量都令人吃惊，它们用盒子装着，一共有1800磅，其中大部分都极度黑暗，反映出对女性施加折磨和极端暴力的倾向。安迪·奥法特从未发表的漫画作品特别令人不安。“看着看着，我胃里一阵翻江倒海，”他的儿子写道。
You have to wonder whether Andy Offutt’s furious, sadistic imagination also explains his sadism toward his children. Porn may not have been outlet enough. (He frequently told his son that were it not for pornography, he’d have been a serial killer.) More important, though, I think you have to wonder how it affected the adolescent sexuality of his children: What happens when your father is a furnace not just of smoldering rage, but of ferocious, shocking fantasies?
你可能会觉得安迪·奥法特这种狂暴的性虐倾向也可以解释他对子女的虐待。创作色情文学或许还不足以充当发泄渠道（他经常告诉儿子，要不是创作色情文学，他可能会成为连环杀手）。但更重要的是，我觉得你可能想知道，这一切对于他子女们青春期的性心理有什么影响：如果父亲内心不仅充满愤怒，而且还有各种残忍惊人的幻想，那会发生什么事呢？
Mr. Offutt doesn’t seem to go in for “dime-story psychology,” as he calls it at one point. But we do get a clue. It’s the most tragic part of his memoir, and it arrives by stealth. At roughly the same moment he describes exploring the mysterious contents of his father’s office, he recalls his visits to the “fatman,” an overweight sad sack in town who sexually abused Chris when he was 15.
克里斯·奥法特似乎并没有落入他所谓的“庸俗心理学”的窠臼。但我们也可以得到一些线索。他的回忆录中最悲惨的一段显得有些遮遮掩掩。他一边描述自己在父亲的办公室探秘，一边又回忆起自己小时候见“胖子”的事情——他那是镇上一个肥胖的可怜虫，克里斯·奥法特15岁那年遭到过他的性侵。
“Later, I decided that my parents would be proud of my open-mindedness in such a small town,” he writes. “I believed that what I was doing with the fatman made me similar to them. They wrote porn and had affairs. If they knew about the fatman, they would respect me, maybe even like me.”
“后来，我觉得父母会为我而自豪，会觉得我在这样一个小镇上，还能保持开放的心态，”他写道。“我相信我和那个胖子一起做的事让我变得和他们很相似。他们创作色情文学，搞艳遇。如果他们知道这个胖子的事，他们可能会尊敬我，甚至还会喜欢我。”
It really hurts to read this.
读到这些，确实让人难过。
Through it all, Mr. Offutt somehow manages to summon compassion for his father. That, ultimately, is what makes this memoir so unexpectedly moving. He admires his dad’s bravery for choosing a writing life. He wishes his dad didn’t have to become a hack, seeing real potential in his fecund, rambunctious imagination. And most of all, he pities his father’s loneliness, for being sentenced to a lifetime preoccupation with torture and a headful of savage sexual fantasies, predicated on the harming of innocents.
最后，奥法特终于表达了对父亲的恻隐之心。这也是这部回忆录里最令人意外感动的部分。他敬佩父亲有勇气选择写作生活。他觉得父亲有着丰沛活跃的想像力，本不应当成为职业写手。最重要的是，他怜悯父亲的孤独，因为他注定一生迷恋着性折磨，注定要与满脑子疯狂的性幻想为伴，而且这些想像建立在对无辜者的伤害基础之上。
“I felt a horrified sympathy for anyone who lived with such imagery on a daily basis,” he writes. “I had no idea how miserable he had truly been.”
“我非常同情任何每天都要与这些幻想为伴的人，”他写道。“我真不知道他到底有多么可怜。”