James Bond. An astronaut. A Secret Service agent.
詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)。一名宇航员。一名特勤局特工。
Hollywood’s most famous actors have played these characters in big-budget movies recently, and a new social media project wants to know: Why haven’t Hollywood’s traditional leading roles been offered to more Asians?
最近这些大投资电影中的角色，都是由好莱坞最著名的演员出演的，而一个新的社交媒体项目提出了一个问题：为什么好莱坞的传统主角没有让更多的亚裔来扮演？
The project, called #StarringJohnCho, is the latest high-profile attempt by activists to call for greater diversity in entertainment, but it may be the first to use one actor as a meme to break down the archetype of a Hollywood leading man.
这个项目名为“#StarringJohnCho”，是呼吁娱乐界增进多元化的活动人士发起的最新一次引人注目的行动。但它可能是第一个把某位演员当作标识，来打破好莱坞男主角典型模式的项目。
William Yu, the 25-year-old mind behind the project, modified posters of well-known movies to show what the Korean-American actor John Cho would look like if he had starred in, say, “The Martian,” “Spectre,” and “London Has Fallen.” All have white male leads.
这个项目的发起者是25岁的威廉·于(William Yu)，他用韩裔美国演员约翰·赵(John Cho)的形象对知名电影海报进行修改，显示了如果是由赵出演《火星救援》(The Martian)、《007：幽灵党》(Spectre)和《伦敦陷落》(London Has Fallen)会是什么样。这些电影中的男主角都是白人。
Mr. Yu, a digital strategist who works in New York City, created the website on Thursday. Since then, the hashtag, #StarringJohnCho, has been shared thousands of times, spurred by coverage from Mic and the Angry Asian Man blog.
威廉·于是一名在纽约工作的数字策略师，上周四他创建这个网站之后， “#StarringJohnCho”标签已经被分享数千次，Mic和“亚洲怒汉”(Angry Asian Man)博客都对它进行了报道。
Mr. Yu said that he had been motivated after Asian-Americans were left out of #OscarsSoWhite, another campaign against whitewashing in Hollywood.
威廉·于说，当反好莱坞“洗白”的活动“#OscarsSoWhite”将亚裔美国人排除在外时，他就起了这个念头。
“It was very much a two-sided argument,” he said in an interview. “You had a white issue, and you had an African-American issue.”
“这基本上是一个一分为二的讨论，”他在接受采访时说。“一个是白人问题，一个是非裔美国人问题。”
Recent high-profile casting decisions, including the Scarlett Johansson role in the remake of the Japanese anime film “Ghost in the Shell” and Tilda Swinton’s casting as a sorcerer of Tibetan descent in Marvel’s “Dr. Strange,” also served as inspiration. But Mr. Yu said the final push came when he read a recent study by researchers at the Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles that suggested movies with more diverse casts made more money.
另一个推动因素是近期一些备受瞩目的选角风波，比如斯嘉丽·约翰逊在日本动漫电影《攻壳机动队》(Ghost in the Shell)翻拍版中扮演女主角，以及蒂尔达·斯温顿(Tilda Swinton)在漫威电影《奇异博士》(Dr. Strange)中扮演藏族血统的魔法师。但威廉·于说，当看到加州大学洛杉矶分校拉尔夫·J·邦奇非裔美国人研究中心(Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies)最近开展一项研究时，他下定了启动这个项目的决心。因为研究人员认为，演员阵容多元化的电影可以赚到更多钱。
“That was kind of the linchpin of me thinking, ‘If that’s true, then why aren’t we seeing leads reflecting this fact?’ ” he said. “If they’re not casting these leads, let’s show what Hollywood would look like if they did.”
“我脑海中浮现了一个念头，‘如果这是真的，那么我们为什么看不到反映这一事实的选角？’他说。“如果他们不让亚裔当主演，那就让我们来看看如果亚裔当上了主演，好莱坞会像什么样子。”
Mr. Yu said he didn’t grow up with many Asian role models in movies or on TV, and he didn’t have many mainstream actors to choose from when creating the project. As he Photoshopped Mr. Cho into the role of Captain America, he caught himself chuckling at the possibility that an Asian man could fill the role.
威廉·于说，他从小到大都没有在影视作品看到多少亚裔角色，在创建这个项目的时候，他并没有太多的主流演员可以选择。当他用Photoshop把约翰·赵嵌入到美国队长的角色中时，亚裔男子扮演这个角色的可能性让他笑了出来。
“It shouldn’t be crazy for someone to take that role,” he said.
“找个人扮演那个角色应该不算离谱，”他说。
Mr. Cho, 43, hasn’t addressed the project — save for sending a heart emoji to the @StarringJohnCho Twitter account. But he spoke publicly about how racism had affected his professional life in a session with Reddit users last year.
现年43岁的约翰·赵尚未对这个项目发表意见——只是发了一个“爱心”表情符号给它的推号@StarringJohnCho。但他去年在Reddit与用户交流时，曾公开谈到过种族主义对他职业生涯的影响。
“I experienced racism, and in my professional life, I try to take roles (and have always tried to take roles) that don’t fall within the parameters of any Asian stereotype,” he wrote.
“我经历过种族主义的事情，在我的职业生涯中，我一直都在试图扮演不属于各种亚裔刻板印象的角色，”他写道。