Should gynecologists be allowed to treat men? A medical specialty board stirred up a hornet’s nest in September when it said no and warned gynecologists that if they accepted male patients, they could lose their certification — something doctors need in order to work.
该不该允许妇科医生给男性患者看病？一个医学专业委员会在9月份表示不可以，并且警告妇科医生，如果他们接收男性病人，会被吊销行医资格认证，这一表态引起一片愤慨。
Protests erupted from patients and doctors who said the policy, set by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology, interfered with medical care and research.
病人和医生们纷纷表示抗议，他们认为由美国妇产科医学委员会(American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology)制定的这项政策妨碍了医疗护理和研究。
Since then, the board, based in Dallas, has backed off twice. In November, it reversed itself and gave gynecologists permission to screen and treat men at high risk for anal cancer. Then, on Wednesday, the board said that gynecologists who had been treating men with chronic pelvic pain could continue to see their current patients.
自此，这个地处达拉斯的委员会做出了两次让步。11月，它撤销了此前的规定，重新允许妇科医生检查并治疗罹患肛门癌风险高的男性。接着，该委员会又在周三表示，已经在治疗男性慢性骨盆疼痛的妇科医生可以继续为目前的病人治疗。
But with few other exceptions, the policy stands: No male patients.
但其他方面没有例外，该政策依然有效：不允许接收男性患者。
The to-and-fro has sent doctors scrambling to cut ties with patients, then to reinstate them. And the board’s pronouncements have puzzled many, including some physicians, who wonder what harm there is in gynecologists’ treating men and whether a specialty board has the authority to impose such a rule.
这样的反复举动迫使医生先仓促地结束和病人的联系，接着又恢复给他们治疗。该委员会的公告让许多人困惑不已，包括一些内科医生，他们不明白让妇科医生治疗男性到底有什么危害，并怀疑专业委员会是否有权强制制定这类规定。
The board said the ban was part of a larger effort to preserve the integrity of the gynecology specialty and to protect patients from doctors who had begun to practice types of medicine for which they had not been trained or certified. But in casting a wide net to curb abuses, the board may have snared more doctors and patients than it had intended.
该委员会说，这一禁令是维持妇科专科完整性、保护病人，防止其医生在没有相关训练或无资质的医学领域行医的一部分努力措施。但该委员会这张为了控制滥行医而撒的大网可能超越了他们的初衷，得罪了他们原来并不想得罪的医生和病人。
The gynecology board is one of 24 boards that certify medical specialists in the United States, based on training, exams and other requirements. Certification is voluntary and not required by law, but in practice it is essential, because most hospitals and insurers require it and patients are increasingly encouraged to choose only specialists who are certified.
妇科医学委员会是美国24个为专业医疗从业者提供认证的委员会之一，相关认证基于培训、考试和其它要求。这种认证是自愿的，法律并不作要求，但在行医中该认证是必要的，因为大多数医院和保险公司有此项要求，并越来越鼓励病人选择获得认证的专科医生。
The gynecology episode began in September, when the board posted on its website a newly explicit definition of the specialty, with a requirement that members devote at least 75 percent of their practice to gynecology. In addition, treating male patients was prohibited, with exceptions for, among other things, circumcising babies, testing couples for infertility and treating transgender people.
该事件始于2013年9月，当时妇产科医学委员会在网站上张贴了本专业的明确新定义，要求成员将至少75%的医学实践用在妇科上。此外，定义禁止医治男性患者，儿童包皮环切手术、不孕不育夫妻检查和变性人治疗等除外。
In telephone interviews in November, two board members — the executive director, Dr. Larry C. Gilstrap, and the director of evaluation, Dr. Kenneth L. Noller — explained the reasoning behind the policy. They said too many gynecologists had been straying into areas like testosterone therapy for men, liposuction, plastic surgery and other cosmetic procedures for both women and men. The board members said some of these doctors were behaving unethically and unprofessionally by presenting themselves as “board certified” without revealing that their certification was in obstetrics and gynecology, potentially misleading patients into thinking the certification was in plastic surgery or some other specialty.
在11月的电话采访中，执行董事拉里·吉尔斯特拉普医生(Dr. Larry C. Gilstrap)和评估主任肯尼思·诺勒医生(Dr. Kenneth L. Noller)两位委员会成员解释了该政策背后的原因。他们说，太多的妇科医生进入了像男性睾酮补充疗法、抽脂术、整形和其它男女整容手术这样的领域。这两位委员会成员说，这些医生中有一部分人的行为不符合职业道德标准、不专业，他们展示自己的“委员会资格”，却没有说明那是只针对妇产科医学领域的资格证，这可能误导病人，让他们以为那是整形或其它专业的认证。
As for treating men, Dr. Gilstrap said: “If you voluntarily want to be known as a specialist in obstetrics and gynecology, it’s restricted to taking care of women. We really need the specialty. There are plenty of physicians out there to take care of men.”
至于治疗男性的禁令，吉尔斯特拉普医生说：“如果你自愿想成为妇产科专业医生，则限定了你只能治疗女性。我们非常需要这一专科。有相当多的内科医生可以治疗男性。”
He noted that treating women has been the official mission of the specialty since 1935, and that the notice in September was really just a restatement and a reminder to gynecologists.
他说，自1935年以来，治疗女性一直是该专科的正式使命，因此，9月份的公告真的只算是再次声明以及对妇科医生的一个提醒。
“I have three daughters and six granddaughters,” he said, “and I can tell you that women have been getting shortchanged in research and studies for as long as I’ve been a doctor.”
“我有三个女儿，孙辈也有六个女孩，”他说，“我可以告诉你，自我行医以来，妇女在医学研究中一直没有得到足够公正的对待。”
But apparently, before the notice came out, not all gynecologists thought that specializing in women meant never treating men. The ban affected gynecologists who had developed extensive skill and experience treating male patients, and they said that it would be difficult or impossible for many of those patients to find care elsewhere.
但是，显然在公告发布之前，并不是所有的妇科医生认为专门从事女性治疗意味着永远不治疗男性患者。这一禁令影响了那些已经在治疗男性患者方面获得丰富技能和经验的妇科医生，而且他们说，那些病人很难从其它地方获得治疗，甚至不可能。
Some gynecologists were screening men at high risk for anal cancer, while others were treating men with chronic pelvic pain, often resulting from injuries to or irritation of the pudendal nerve. In both conditions, the affected body parts and treatments are the same in men and women, but gynecologists have more treatment experience than most doctors.
一些妇科医生在筛查肛门癌高危男性，而另一些则在治疗男性慢性骨盆疼痛，这类疼痛通常是由于阴部神经受到损伤或刺激。这两种情况下，受影响的身体部位和治疗方式对男女都相同，但妇科医生的治疗经验比大多数医生都丰富。
Both groups of doctors, and some of their patients, asked the board to make an exception. Initially, it declined, insisting that male patients could be referred to other doctors. But members changed their minds in November with regard to anal cancer screening. The disease is usually caused by a sexually transmitted virus, and Dr. Noller said the board recognized that gynecologists had a tradition of treating both men and women for such infections, so the screening was not out of line.
这两类妇科医生和他们的一些病人都要求委员会破例。起初，该委员会拒绝了，坚持让男性患者换其他医生。但在11月，该委员会成员们改变了关于肛门癌筛查的主意。该疾病通常是由一种性传播病毒引起，而诺勒医生说，委员会意识到，对此类传染病，妇科医生有对男女都治疗的传统，因此该筛查不算违反规定。
He also said the board did not want to come between doctors and patients or to interfere with research trials already in the works.
他还表示，委员会并不想介入医生和病人之间或妨碍已经在进行中的研究试验。
After the board reversed itself on cancer screening, members declined further interviews and began referring questions to David Margulies, who heads a public relations firm in Dallas and has written a book on crisis management. Mr. Margulies said the board declined to explain how it made its decisions, or how many members were involved.
在撤回有关癌症筛查的规定后，该委员会成员拒绝再接受访问，并开始交由大卫·马古利斯(David Margulies)回复问题。马古利斯在达拉斯运营一家公共关系公司并著有一本关于危机管理的书。他说，委员会拒绝解释决策流程，也没有透露有多少成员参与决策。
The permission granted for treating pelvic pain is limited and applies only to “current patients,” defined as those whom the doctors had already seen or for whom they had scheduled appointments on or before Dec. 18. No new patients are to be accepted.
对骨盆疼痛的治疗许可是有限的，并且只适用于“目前的病人”——那些已经看过妇科医生或在12月18日前（含12月18日）已经和妇科医生预约的病人。不允许接收新病患。
The decision was outlined in a letter sent to several doctors and to a professional group, the International Pelvic Pain Society. But it is not mentioned on the board’s website, and Mr. Margulies said in an email that the board’s policy had not changed.
该决定写在了发给几名医生和专业团体国际骨盆疼痛协会(International Pelvic Pain Society)的信中。但并没有登在该委员会网站上，马古利斯在一封电子邮件中说，委员会的政策没有改变。
Stephanie Prendergast, a physical therapist in San Francisco and president of the pelvic pain society, said that the board’s permission was good news but that she wished it had been extended to new patients as well, because gynecologists often have the most success in diagnosing and treating pelvic pain in men. The condition is poorly understood, Ms. Prendergast said, adding that patients typically see five doctors and have untreated symptoms for a year before they receive the correct diagnosis.
旧金山理疗师及骨盆疼痛协会主席斯蒂芬妮·普伦德加斯特(Stephanie Prendergast)说，委员会的这一许可是个好消息，但她希望许可也能惠及新病人，因为在诊断和治疗男性骨盆疼痛方面妇科医生通常最有心得。普伦德加斯特女士说，很多医生对这一症状的认识不足，并且在得到正确的诊断前，病人们通常需要看5名医生，发病一年后才能得到治疗。
Dr. Lois Margaret Nora, president and chief executive of the American Board of Medical Specialties, said she thought the gynecology board’s willingness to reconsider its policy and make exceptions showed a good balance of flexibility and rigor in protecting patients.
美国医学专家委员会(American Board of Medical Specialties)主席兼首席执行官洛伊斯·玛格利特·诺拉医生(Dr. Lois Margaret Nora)说，她认为妇科医学委员会愿意重新考虑其政策并且做出破例，体现了保护病人的灵活性和严苛性之间的良好平衡。
Arthur L. Caplan, director of the division of medical ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center, said, “Ethically, the boards do have the authority to certify the expertise that they think qualifies you to be in their specialty.”
纽约大学朗格尼医学中心(NYU Langone Medical Center)医学伦理部门主任亚瑟·卡普兰(Arthur L. Caplan)说，“伦理上，委员会的确有权力认证他们认为使你有资格在相关专业行医的专长。”
Boards can also dictate medical practice, Dr. Caplan said. But he added: “I think using the male-female boundary — it’s old-fashioned and should change. What should be the basis of certification and specialization is what skills you have, what knowledge you have that can benefit patients. A bright line for male-female in 1935 might have made sense. In 2013 it doesn’t.”
卡普兰医生说，委员会也可以制定医疗实践做法。但他补充：“我认为以男女作为界线太过守旧，应该改变。认证和专业化的基础是你所拥有的技能和能够让病人受益的知识。男女分明的界线在1935年可能有道理，但在2013年却并非如此。”