Although the tunneling for the Second Avenue subway is going on far below the street, on the surface whole blocks are in chaos, strewn with barriers, fences, ventilators and huge elevated construction sheds. It was just as much an obstacle course in the early 20th century, when our first subways were built, as we can see from hundreds of thousands of photographs, now divided like a broken Greek vase among various institutions, at least two dealers, several collectors and, on occasion, sale tables at flea markets.
尽管第二大道地铁的隧道施工远在地表以下，整个街区的路面一片混乱，到处都是路障、围栏、通风机和架起的巨大脚手架。在地面上穿行，感觉就像在玩障碍赛跑，这跟20世纪初纽约修第一条地铁时的光景很像，我们可以从成百上千幅照片中看到当时的情形。现在这些照片们，就像一个残破的古希腊花瓶，它的碎片被五花八门的机构、两个以上的交易商、好几个收藏者瓜分得一干二净，可能还有部分流向了跳蚤市场的小摊。
Work on New York’s first subway began in 1900, running from City Hall up to Grand Central, across to Times Square, and then up the West Side on Broadway. The contractor, the Rapid Transit Subway Construction Company, embarked on not only a construction project of unprecedented scope, but also a program of photographic documentation without precursor.
1900年时，纽约开始修建第一条地铁，线路从市政厅修到了中央车站(Grand Central)，途经时代广场(Times  Square)，然后延伸到百老汇(Broadway)大道西段。承包商捷运地铁建设公司(Rapid Transit Subway Construction Company)不仅开展了一个规模空前的建设工程，还发起了一项史无前例的纪实摄影项目。
The huge portfolio got its start when Pierre P. Pullis and other photographers, using cameras with 8-by-10-inch glass negatives, were assigned to record the progress of construction as well as every dislodged flagstone, every cracked brick, every odd building and anything that smelled like a possible lawsuit.
皮埃尔·P·普利斯(Pierre P. Pullis)等当时采用8*10英寸玻璃负片相机的摄影师们接到任务，要求用相机记录施工进展的全过程；此外，每一块移位的铺路石、裂开的砖块、奇怪的建筑，以及任何可能造成法律纠纷的事物，也都不能放过。大量摄影档案由此开始建立。
Pullis, the principal photographer in the early years, was born in 1869. He left school after the eighth grade, and his training is unknown — an 1897 directory lists him simply as “clerk.” Although he was described in one census index as mulatto, all prior and subsequent censuses show him and his parents as white. He worked at least through 1930, and died in 1942.
普利斯早些年是一位首席摄影师。他出生于1869年，上完8年级后就离开了学校，培训经历未知——一份1897年的名录只是将他列为“办事员”。尽管有一份人口普查索引将他描述为黑白混血儿，但是此前和此后的所有人口普查都显示，他和他的父母都是白人。他的职业生涯至少持续到了1930年，并于1942年逝世。
One of the earliest views in the subway collection, taken in 1900, shows the malls along Broadway above 72nd Street as peaceful tree-lined plots of turf, many with a walkway up the center. But when a photographer returned in 1902, Broadway was in turmoil, the trees felled, the street ripped up and covered with timbers, disrupted by subway construction just a few feet below.
在最早期的地铁系列摄影作品中，有一张照片拍摄于1900年，显示在第72街以北、百老汇路边的林荫大道是一片片树木夹道的宁静草皮，很多草皮中间铺设了步道。然而到了1902年，一名摄影师回到这里时，百老汇大道已是一片狼藉，树木被砍倒，道路裂开，上面堆放着木材。距离地表仅数英尺处的地铁施工，已致路面的交通瘫痪。
A shot of West 73rd shows the Ansonia apartment house near the end of construction, with its six-foot-high safe just delivered to the sidewalk. A photo of Broadway taken a year later shows the malls back in place, as if nothing had happened, but minus their cover of mature oaks.
一张拍摄于西73街的老照片显示，安索尼亚(Ansonia)公寓楼（1899至1904年修建的公寓式酒店，屋顶开创性地设立了农场——译注）已接近施工的收尾阶段，其6英尺高（约合1.8米）的冷藏柜被直接派送到了人行道上。而拍摄于一年后的百老汇的一张照片显示，林荫大道恢复了原状，就像什么事情也没发生过一样；只不过，路边已经没有了原本的成年橡树。
Without the trees, the view up the center of the Broadway malls is open and spare, like Interstate 70 running across Kansas, light years from their current bunkerlike incarnations.
没有了树木的遮蔽，百老汇的林荫大道显得开阔而空旷，就像横穿堪萨斯州的70号洲际公路(Interstate 70)一样，同其现在满目疮痍的惨状相差十万八千里。
The mission of the subway photographers was broad. The Lafayette Street of 1903 looked like a city after a bombing, gaunt hummocks of earth and debris. But a 1908 photograph looking north on West End Avenue past 97th Street is almost sleepy: a collie-type dog, brown or black with a splash of white around its neck, wanders across the street, not a vehicle in sight. At a sewer rerouting site at Broadway and 100th Street, a posed shot captures a group of workmen with one beefy guy sitting astride a six-foot-wide pipe, like Slim Pickens riding the nuclear bomb at the end of the movie “Dr. Strangelove.”
地铁摄影师需要记录的内容非常广泛。1903年的拉法叶街(Lafayette Street)就像一座被轰炸过的城市，到处都是土堆和瓦砾。但是，在1908年拍摄的一张照片中，从第97街往北眺望，对面的西区大道(West End Avenue)仿佛陷入了沉睡：目之所及处没有一辆汽车，一只柯利牧羊犬正在穿越马路，它的毛色为棕色或黑色，脖子上有一圈白毛。在百老汇和第100街的一处更改下水道线路的施工工地上，一群工人在镜头前摆姿势照了张合影，其中有个强壮的汉子跨坐在一根6英尺（约合1.8米）的管子上，就像斯利姆·皮肯斯(Slim Pickens)在影片《奇爱博士》(Dr. Strangelove)的末尾骑着核弹一样。
At Lexington Avenue and 109th Street, one building looked suspicious: a keystone over a tenement window arch had settled perhaps two inches, apparently before construction. A man looks out the window. He is wearing a tie — indeed, at least half the men in the pictures are wearing ties.
在列克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)和第109街，有一座建筑看起来很可疑：一扇拱形窗的拱心石下塌了大约2英寸（约合5厘米），显然在施工前就已下塌。一名男子看着窗外。他打着领带——当然，照片里至少有半数男子都打着领带。
The great thing about these photographs is that they capture the miscellany of city life in a way that formal architectural photographs rarely do. A photograph of a cracked sidewalk at Lexington Avenue and 79th Street records a childish four-foot-high chalk drawing of a girl, signed “Allan.” A testament of love? Some pedestrians are caught in the lens by surprise, but others are rowed up as if they expect complimentary prints.
这些照片的伟大之处在于，它们捕捉了都市生活的方方面面，而一板一眼的建筑摄影很少能做到这一点。一张拍摄于列克星敦大道和第79街的照片显示，在一条路面已经开裂的人行道上，有人以稚嫩的笔触，用粉笔画了一个4英尺高（约合1.2米）的女孩，旁边写着“阿兰”(Allan)。这是恋爱的见证？有些行人被抓拍时的表情很惊愕，还有的行人则排成一排，仿佛想在镜头前好好表现一番。
A workman at Broadway and 88th Street, slightly out of focus, turns around with Bogart-like malevolence as if to say, “Hey, buddy, waddya lookin’ at?” On the other hand, three cute girls are lined up at Lexington and 89th, right in front of four equally cute Queen Anne houses.
在百老汇和第88街，有一名工人在镜头前的形象略显失焦。他转过身来，脸上流露出一副鲍嘉（Bogart，美国演员，参演的电影超过25部，通常都演强盗——译注）式的凶恶神情，仿佛在说，“嘿，哥们，瞅啥呢？”另一方面，在列克星敦大道和第89街，有三个可爱的小姑娘站成一排，照了张相，她们身后是四座同样可爱的安妮女王风格(Queen Anne)的建筑。
Seven blocks south, at East 82nd Street, Joseph Richardson’s famous “Spite House,” built only five feet wide and four stories high after a dispute with a neighboring owner, was the subject of at least six images. The subway construction company spent $15,000 in precautionary shoring, although The New York Times suggested that the strange structure was “hardly worth the money.”
在7个街区以南的东82街，约瑟夫·理查森(Joseph Richardson)和邻居发生冲突后，建了一座臭名昭著的“恶意房屋”（Spite House，指纯属有意刁难邻里而修建的房屋，意在阻挡邻居采光或视线等——译注），它只有5英尺高（约合1.5米），4英尺宽（约合1.2米），至少有6张老照片中出现了这套房子。地铁建设公司花了1.5万美元（约合人民币9万元）给它修建支柱，以免它在地铁施工的过程中倒塌，不过《纽约时报》当时撰文称，这座奇怪的建筑“根本不值得投入这么多钱”。
Although most of the subway images by Pullis and others carry individual negative numbers, there is no central catalog. A few hundreds are scattered through the collection of the Museum of the City of New York, the New York City Municipal Archives and the New York Public Library. The New-York Historical Society has at least 65,000, says Marilyn S. Kushner, the head of the department of prints, photographs and architectural collections. The collector Brian Merlis has a thousand or so, which he reprints and sells on eBay and at various street fairs.
尽管普利斯等人拍摄的地铁照片都有底片编号，但是这些编号并没有编成汇总目录。有几百张照片被分散收藏于纽约市博物馆(Museum of the City of New York)、纽约市档案馆(New York City Municipal Archives)和纽约公共图书馆(New York Public Library)。纽约历史学会(New-York Historical Society)印刷品、摄影、建筑收藏品部门的负责人玛丽莲S·库什纳(Marilyn S. Kushner)透露，历史学会至少收藏了6.5万张照片。收藏家布莱恩·默利斯(Brian Merlis) 收藏了一千来张，他将照片重印后，放到了易趣和好几个街市上售卖。
Carey Stumm, the collections manager at the New York Transit Museum, says it has about 300,000 transit-related images.  Only 10,000 are on its website, and most of those are from the 1920s and later. 
纽约运输博物馆(New York Transit Museum)的馆藏品管理经理凯里·斯塔姆(Carey Stumm)透露，博物馆里大约收藏了30万张与运输有关的图片，只有1万张发布到了网站上，其中大多数照片拍摄于20世纪20年代以后。