Objects that borrow their forms and proportions from ancient Greece or Rome have staying power for a reason. “The shapes have been worked out over generations,” said Thomas Jayne, an interior designer whose work incorporates more than a few of those objects. “They’re preapproved, if you will, and they’re reliable.”
一些家具的样式及比例从古希腊或古罗马借鉴而来，这样的家具一直大行其道，是有原因的。“这些形状几个世纪以来都长盛不衰，”室内设计师托马斯·杰恩(Thomas Jayne)说，他的作品中有很多就是这样的家具。“它们不但早就得到了认可，而且只要你愿意，它们还很耐用。”
In practical terms, he said, that means “if you stick with the classics, you have a better margin for success” when designing rooms.
实际上，他说，这就意味着，在设计房间的时候，“如果你坚持这种古典风格，获得成功的可能性会更大。”
Which is not to suggest that Mr. Jayne, 56, isn’t a fan of other styles. True, he won the 2013 Arthur Ross Award for interior design from the Institute of Classical Architecture & Art, but he likes a mix of old and new.
但这并不表示，56岁的杰恩从不钟爱其他的风格。确实，他曾荣获2013年由古典建筑与艺术学院(Institute of Classical Architecture & Art)颁发的亚瑟罗斯室内设计奖(Arthur Ross Award for interior design)；但他也很喜欢新旧混搭的风格。
“I’ve always argued that you can’t make a great interior without something of this century and something old,” he said. And modern rooms benefit from classically inspired objects, he added, because they create a sense of contrast.
“我总是强调，若没有一些本世纪的东西和一些老东西，你就做不出伟大的室内设计作品，”他说。而且现代化的房间也会受益于有古典气息的物件，他补充道，因为它们产生了反差。
In search of a few good examples, Mr. Jayne began at Royal-Athena Galleries in Midtown Manhattan. The Apulian miniature kantharos from the fourth century B.C., a diminutive two-handled cup he found there, he said, “would stand alone in any interior of any period.”
为了搜寻优秀的案例，杰恩首先从曼哈顿中城(Midtown Manhattan)的皇家雅典娜画廊(Royal-Athena Galleries)出发。他在那里发现了意大利阿普利亚区(Apulian)的迷你康塔罗斯(kantharos)这种小得出奇的双耳杯子。他说它们“在任何时代的任何室内设计中，都能自成一格”。
“It’s totally a classical shape,” he continued, “with the archetypal Greek key.”
“它完全就是一种古典的造型，”他继续说道，“具有典型的希腊元素。”
He was equally taken with the price: $500. Some would call that expensive, but as he said, it’s “cheaper than going to Las Vegas.”
他同样接受杯子的价格：500美元（约合人民币3067元）。有些人可能会称之为昂贵，但正如他所说，“比起去趟拉斯维加斯便宜多了。”
For American-made neo-Classical furniture from the 19th century, he stopped at Hirschl & Adler a few blocks away, where he was smitten with a mahogany-and-cherry sofa from about 1820, with sinuous carved dolphin forms along the arms.
说到19世纪美国制造的新古典(neo-Classical)家具，他在几个街区外的Hirschl & Adler商店停了下来。他深深喜欢那儿的一套红木和樱桃木沙发，大约制造于1820年。沙发扶手上雕刻着优美的海豚造型。
“This is a showpiece,” he said. “It’s an example of how classicism can be organic, not just static.”
“这是一件样品，”他说，“展现出古典主义不仅能表现静态，也能充满生机。”
And for something from the 20th century, he suggested the Pompeiana folding screen by Piero Fornasetti from Palazzetti, illustrated with a classical building stretched across its four panels. “It’s a great example of taking neo-Classicism and putting a contemporary spin on it,” he said.
再说到20世纪的作品，他提起了庞贝的折叠屏风，设计者是Palazzetti公司的彼埃罗·佛纳赛缇(Piero Fornasetti)。在展开的四扇插屏上，还绘有古典建筑的图案。“这是个非常棒的例子，展示了古典主义的基调，并融入了当代的设计元素，”他说。
He was similarly impressed with the Anziano from Donghia, a modern interpretation of a Greek klismos chair, made from molded wood and steel. Traditional klismos chairs are usually so fragile “they really only work as party chairs, not daily use chairs,” he said. Whereas Donghia’s version “is great because it echoes the purist form but is much more durable.”
Donghia公司的设计作品Anziano也为他留下了深刻印象，该设计对一把希腊的克里斯莫斯椅(klismos chair)进行了现代化的诠释。这把椅子是用模塑的木材与钢材制造的。传统的克里斯莫斯椅通常太过脆弱，“它们真的只能用来做派对椅子，而不是在日常生活中使用，”他说。而Donghia的版本“很棒，因为它既保留了椅子的纯正外型，但又变得更加耐用”。
At Global Table in SoHo, he found another update of a common classical piece: the white ceramic urn.
在苏豪区(SoHo)的Global Table商店，他又发现对某类常见古典作品的另一升级：白色陶瓷瓮。
The modern version could be used for a variety of functions, he said. “You could even make them into lamps,” he said. Then he had a better idea.
这个现代版的陶瓷瓮可以有各种用途，他说。“你甚至可以把它们做成落地灯，”他说。接着，他又想到一个更好的主意。
“Give one to someone as a trophy. It can be a decorating prize.”
“也可以把它作为一座奖杯送给别人，比如一项装修奖。”