My sister has been dating her boyfriend for two years. They live together and seem mostly happy. And I am happy for them, except for one thing: I am about 99 percent sure he is gay. Now, I have no problem with homosexuality, but you can understand my concern. Also, I am not the only one who thinks this. Several male friends have told me that he has tried to kiss other men or grab their crotches. I would like to bring this up with my sister. How should I do it?
我妹妹跟她男朋友交往两年了。他们已经同居，看起来也很快乐。我也很为他们高兴啦，只是有一点：我有九成九的把握，这男的是同志。是这样，我对同性恋是一点意见也没有，不过你应该可以了解我在担什么心。而且不是只有我这么想。很多其他男性朋友都告诉我，我妹妹的男朋友曾经想去亲别的男人，抓他们的裤档。我想把这件事跟我妹摊开来讲，请问我该怎么做呢？
Michelle, New York
纽约的Michelle
Request denied! Before you say anything hurtful to your sister, let’s take a peek at some of the (homophobic-adjacent) assumptions that you’ve made on your (probably well-intentioned) road to judgment. Your 99 percent certainty rests on unknown evidence. (Spare me your gaydar.) But I am willing to bet that much of it involves silly stereotypes about masculinity. Is the boyfriend effeminate? Does he follow fashion or musical theater? News flash: He can still be straight.
请求驳回！在你说出任何话去伤你妹妹的心之前，我们来瞧瞧，你在下这样（可能是善意）的判断之前，做了些什么样（近似恐同）的推论。你那九成九的把握，根据的都是莫须有的证据（饶了我吧，省省你的同志雷达）。我很乐意跟你赌，这些证据大半是出自那些关于男子气概的无聊成见。她的男朋友很有女人味吗？他会关注流行时尚、听音乐剧吗？重要播报：此人依然可以是个直男。
More problematic is the “gay panic” of your male friends, whose gossipy stories may rely on secondhand reports from still other men. Not so reliable. What’s more, I don’t buy it. Gay men and lesbians have long been, and often still are, a persecuted minority. (Have you seen the excellent film “Carol” yet?) The idea that a gay man could blithely and repeatedly “grab the crotches” of his straight cohorts is absurd. There would be consequences.
你那些男性朋友的“同志恐慌”是更大的问题，他们的八卦消息恐怕还是来自另一堆男人的二手情报。可信度堪忧。更重要的是，我不买帐。同性恋不分男女，向来是广受迫害的少数族群，至今都难逃一劫（你看过那部超棒的电影《卡萝》了吗？）男同会满心欢喜地一直去摸他直男哥们的“裤档”，这种想法根本奇葩。这么做是要承担后果的。
But even if all these allegations are true, who are we to substitute our judgment for your sister’s? You say she is happy with this man after living with him for two years, plenty of time to decide for herself whether she is. Every relationship is different; some are more sexual than others. And kindness and communication play a bigger role than orgasms in the long-term prospects of most couples. If your sister’s life is working for her, back off. Once you share your views, you can’t unshare them. Better to stay out of other people’s bedrooms, however lovingly we mean to enter — until they invite us in.
就算你们说的全没错，我们其他人又算哪根葱，可以代你妹妹下定论呢？你说她和这个男人同居了两年，还很快乐，那么经过这么大把时间，够她决定自己过得好不好了吧！每段关系都是不一样的。性生活对有些人来说比其他人来得更重要，而对大部分想要一起长远走下去的伴侣来说，善意和沟通比性高潮来得更重要。如果你妹妹的人生很合她的意，那你就退下吧。一旦你把看法分享出来，就收不回去了。别人家卧室里的事，我们最好别管，不管是出于多么好的动机——除非他们主动邀请。
At parties, it bothers me that my husband is asked immediately what he does for a living, and I never am. Lately, I’ve tried to “lean in” and ask other women about their work. But this has backfired: One wife looked uncomfortable before she started explaining what she used to do. Is it a faux pas to ask strangers about their jobs?
在派对上，我很烦人们总是当即问起我丈夫是做什么的，却从不问我同样的问题。近来我试着“向前一步”，来问问其他女性她们的工作如何。没想到事与愿违：有位太太看来面有难色，接着才开始向我解释她曾经从事过哪些工作。和不认识的人谈论他们的工作，这样很失礼吗？
Allison, Texas
德克萨斯州的Allison
Let’s set aside the gender difference you’ve noted. I don’t doubt it for a second, and I understand your corrective impulse. But for all the people I know who love their jobs — both of them (just kidding!) — many more do it for the paycheck or feel resentful or bored at the office. And that doesn’t include a sea of conflicted stay-at-home moms. Faux pas or not, “What do you do?” is not an optimal conversation starter.
我们先不提你注意到的性别差异。我毫不怀疑这种差异的存在，并且理解你想出手纠正的冲动。不过，我当然是见过热爱工作的人——整整有两个呢（开玩笑！）——但除了这些人以外呢，大部分还不都是为了糊口才去工作的，要不就是在办公的时候满腹牢骚，无聊得不行。这还不包括那满坑满谷的、内心充满纠结的全职妈妈。不论失礼与否，“您在哪儿高就？”算不上是理想的社交对话开场白。
It can also give people the impression that you want to assess quickly how much they earn or how “important” they are. Steer clear at the get-go. Small talk exists for a reason: It gives us a gradual runway to figure out whether we may like this new person. It needn’t be deadly (e.g., weather or traffic). Start with books or films or TV shows that you’ve enjoyed recently. (Or sports, other than the Republican debates.) We all arrive at “What do you do?” eventually. No need to race there.
而且这会让人觉得你想尽快了解他们的收入几何，身份有多“重要”。从一开始就要避免留下这个印象。拉家常这种东西的存在是有原因的：你可以循序渐进地判明自己是否喜欢这个新认识的人。不一定要很无聊（比如天气、路况之类），可以从你最近喜欢看的书籍、电影或电视剧入手。（或者说说体育，共和党辩论就算了。）我们最终都会说到“你做什么的？”这一句，不用着急。
I am single, 28, and have just purchased my first home. Since I bought the place, family and friends have congratulated me and offered to give me furniture and kitchenware they don’t want anymore. I know they are offering their used goods out of kindness, but I am sort of offended. If I had gotten married, they would (more appropriately) have given me new housewarming gifts. How should I respond?
我现在单身，28岁，刚刚买下自己的第一栋房子。买房后，家人和朋友都来祝贺我，要把他们不想要的旧家具和厨具送给我。我知道他们把用过的东西给我是出于好意，但我觉得挺不爽的。如果我已经结婚了，他们会（更得体地）给我一些新的暖房礼物。我该怎么回应？
Sarah, Atlanta
亚特兰大的Sarah
Not so fast. You skipped an essential step in the fox trot of gifting. If you had gotten married, there would have been a wedding for these friends and relatives to attend. If you had given a housewarming party, there would have been a shindig. You can’t bag the occasion and still expect the gifts.
等一下。你漏掉了送礼狐步舞中最重要的一步。如果你结婚了，应该就办过一场亲友都来参加的婚礼。如果你开了一个暖房趴，那就是一场狂欢聚会了。你总不能不办事情却想着要礼物。
If swag is your objective, make a party. Shiny gifts will follow. But I bet that it’s respect for your milestone achievement that you really want. Gifts are no measure of that. And we rarely give them out of the blue. If a party isn’t your thing, try to see those used kitchen stools as signs of encouragement. They are.
如果你的目标就是要东西，那就办一场趴。漂亮的礼物自然会来。但是我猜你真正想要的是，对这个人生阶段性成就的敬意。这不是用礼物来衡量的。我们很少会没来由地送出礼物。如果你不喜欢聚会的形式，那就把那些二手的厨房凳当作一种鼓励吧。它们的确是鼓励。
I have a daughter who has had three children, whom we adore, in four years of marriage. Many people ask me: “How many more children do you think she will have?” Or: “Does she not believe in birth control?” How should I answer these frequent inquiries?
我有一个女儿，结婚四年，生了三个我们喜爱的孩子。很多人问我：“你觉得她还会再生几个？”或者：“她是反对节育吗？”我该如何回答这些频频出现的问题？
Anonymous, Denver
丹佛的匿名者
Back to other people’s sex lives! Look into nosy people’s eyes with maximum sincerity and say: “I don’t know. Would you like her telephone number, so you can call and ask her?” That should quiet them down.
又说到他人的床笫之事了！无比诚挚地看着那些多管闲事的人的眼睛说：“我不知道。要不我把她电话号码给你，你自己去问问？”这应该就能让他们闭上嘴了。