CARACAS, Venezuela — With diplomatic relations fraying rapidly between the United States and Venezuela, the government of President Nicolás Maduro has given the American Embassy here 15 days to come up with a plan to drastically shrink its staff, Venezuela’s foreign minister announced Monday.
委内瑞拉加拉加斯——随着美国与委内瑞拉之间的外交关系迅速恶化，委内瑞拉外交部长周一宣布，总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)领导的政府要求美国大使馆在15天内制定出大幅削减工作人员的方案。
Mr. Maduro has repeatedly accused the United States of supporting a plot to overthrow him, and on Saturday he announced a series of diplomatic measures that he said were intended to halt American meddling.
马杜罗一再指责美国为推翻他的阴谋给予了支持，周六他宣布了一系列外交举措，并声称这些举措意在遏制美国的干涉。
He said the United States would have to reduce the number of officials at its embassy to a number similar to the staff at the Venezuelan Embassy in Washington. He said there were 100 American officials here and just 17 Venezuelan officials in Washington, although those numbers have not been verified by the State Department.
他表示，美国必须将大使馆人员的规模，削减到与委内瑞拉驻华盛顿使馆人数相当的程度。他提到，这里的美国使馆有100名美方官员，而在华盛顿只有17名委内瑞拉官员。不过这些数字并没有得到美国国务院的证实。
“Regarding the reduction to 17 officials with which the Embassy of the United States in Venezuela must operate, they were given 15 days to present a plan as to the classification and rank of the officials that will remain,” the foreign minister, Delcy Rodríguez, said at a news conference.
“美国驻委内瑞拉大使馆必须维持17人的运转规模，我们向美方给予了15天的期限，提交一份涉及削减规模的方案，阐明留任官员的职能和级别，”外交部长德尔西·罗德里格斯(Delcy Rodríguez)在新闻发布会上表示。
She said the change was in keeping with “the reciprocity that should govern relations between sovereign states.” The United States denies Mr. Maduro’s claim that it is involved in any plan to overthrow him, saying he is seeking to deflect attention from the country’s worsening economic crisis.
她说，这种调整“与主权国家之间应当遵循的互惠原则”相一致。美国反驳了马杜罗的指控，否认曾参与任何试图推翻他的计划，并声称马杜罗的说法是在该国经济危机日益加剧的时候，转移民众的注意力。
Mr. Maduro also said Saturday that Americans traveling to Venezuela would now need visas to enter the country and that they would have to pay a fee equal to what Venezuelans pay for a visa to the United States.
马杜罗周六还表示，前往委内瑞拉旅行的美国人需要取得签证才能入境，而且需要像申请赴美签证的委内瑞拉人一样，支付金额相当的费用。
Mr. Maduro’s anti-Washington language was tamped down for several weeks after the surprise diplomatic opening between the United States and Cuba, a close ally of the Caracas government.
在美国与古巴出人意料地建立外交关系之后的几周里，马杜罗反对华盛顿的言论一度有所软化。古巴是委内瑞拉政府的亲密盟友。