CARACAS, Venezuela — He thunders about conspiracies and assassination plots. He says that he sleeps with both eyes open. Few Venezuelans even know where he lives.
委内瑞拉加拉加斯——他对阴谋和暗杀计划大发雷霆。他说自己睁着两只眼睛睡觉。甚至没有几个委内瑞拉人知道他住在哪里。
But no matter the dangers, President Nicolás Maduro says that no one will scare him, fool him or divert him from carrying out the mission that the “eternal Commander Chávez” has given him “until the end of the end of the roads, now and forever.”
但是，尽管存在危险，总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)仍然表示，没人能吓到他、愚弄他或阻止他执行“永恒的指挥官查韦斯(Chávez)”交给他的任务，“直到道路尽头，从现在到永远”。
Mr. Maduro came into office seeking to imitate his charismatic predecessor and mentor, Hugo Chávez, in nearly every way: the way he talked, the way he dressed and in his fulminations against American imperialism.
马杜罗上台后，一直在几乎所有方面刻意模仿他魅力超凡的前任和导师乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)：他的说话方式、穿着，以及他对美帝国主义的严词谴责。
But now, two years after the death of Mr. Chávez, with his country sinking deeper into an economic crisis, what was once Mr. Maduro’s greatest advantage — his absolute loyalty to the late leader — may have become his greatest handicap.
然而现在，在查韦斯逝世两年后，随着委内瑞拉在经济危机中越陷越深，马杜罗对这位已故领导人的绝对忠诚——这曾是他最大的优势——或许已经成了他最大的障碍。
“The government inaction, the inertia, comes from a belief that you find in Nicolás Maduro and his government about defending Chávez’s legacy, as if nothing that Chávez left can be touched, nothing can be changed or corrected because that would be considered a betrayal,” said Victor Álvarez, a leftist economist and former government minister under Mr. Chávez.
左翼经济学家、曾在查韦斯政府担任政府部长的维克托·阿尔瓦雷斯(Victor Álvarez)说，“政府的不作为，这种惰性，来自尼古拉斯·马杜罗和他的政府关于维护查韦斯遗留政策的态度，仿佛查韦斯留下的所有东西都不能碰，也不能改变或纠正，因为这会被视作背叛。”
Well before Mr. Chávez’s death on March 5, 2013, it became clear that many of his policies needed to be revised or even discarded to set the nation’s economy on the right track, Mr. Álvarez said.
查韦斯于2013年3月5日逝世。阿尔瓦雷斯说，早在他逝世之前，人们就清楚地意识到，为了让国家经济步入正轨，他的许多政策都需要修改乃至摒弃。
But wary of breaking from his mentor’s course, Mr. Maduro, who repeats Mr. Chávez’s name like a mantra and calls himself the son of Chávez, has doubled down on the same policies, which economists say have contributed to a storm of economic problems, including recession, soaring inflation and chronic shortages of basic goods.
不过，由于不敢偏离导师的路线，马杜罗——他重复查韦斯的名字时就像念经一样，而且他还自称是查韦斯之子——加大了同样的政策的实施力度。经济学家称，正是由于这些政策，委内瑞拉才出现了衰退、通胀飙升和基本生活用品长期短缺等大量经济问题。
“Maduro has a tragic destiny,” said Alberto Barrera, a newspaper columnist and novelist. He argued that Mr. Maduro has to blame the United States and other enemies for the country’s problems because to do otherwise would recognize that Mr. Chávez’s legacy is flawed.
“马杜罗的命运会很悲惨，”报纸专栏作家、小说家阿尔贝托·巴雷拉(Alberto Barrera)说。他还表示，马杜罗不得不把国家的问题归咎于美国和其他敌人，因为倘若不这样，就相当于承认查韦斯的遗留政策存在问题。
“Maduro knows that he has to confront a very big crisis, but to accept and recognize the crisis is to recognize that Chávez and the revolution failed,” Mr. Barrera added.
巴雷拉还说，“马杜罗知道自己必须直面一个非常大的危机，但是接受并承认危机，就相当于承认查韦斯和革命的失败。”
While Mr. Maduro sticks to Mr. Chávez’s legacy in economic matters — including price controls and government ownership of major companies that have stagnated and been mismanaged — many Venezuelans argue that he may have surpassed Mr. Chávez in one area: his attacks on the political opposition.
一方面马杜罗维持了查韦斯关于经济的遗留政策——其中包括价格管制和政府持有大型企业的所有权（这些企业已经停滞不前，而且管理不善）——另一方面，许多委内瑞拉人都认为，他或许已经在一个领域超过了查韦斯：对政治反对派的攻击。
After dispatching troops during protests last year, Mr. Maduro has jailed a succession of prominent politicians. Last month, the intelligence police raided the office of Antonio Ledezma, the mayor of Caracas, and hauled him off to jail. He has been accused of taking part in one of the many coup plots Mr. Maduro has alleged.
在去年的抗议中，马杜罗曾派出军队；之后，他又关押了一批著名政治人士。上个月，情报警察突然搜查了加拉加斯市长安托尼奥·雷泽马(Antonio Ledezma)的办公室，并把他投入监狱。雷泽马受到的指控是，他参与了马杜罗所说的许多政变阴谋中的一桩。
Mr. Ledezma now sits in the Ramo Verde military prison, along with Leopoldo López, the leader of a political party who championed last year’s protests, and Daniel Ceballos, a former mayor. Another former opposition mayor, Enzo Scarano, was recently released.
雷泽马目前被关在拉莫弗迪(Ramo Verde)军事监狱，与他关在一起的还有支持去年抗议活动的政党领导人莱奥波尔多·洛佩斯(Leopoldo López)，以及前市长丹尼尔·塞瓦略斯(Daniel Ceballos)。另一名反对派前市长恩佐·斯卡拉诺 (Enzo Scarano)已于最近获释。
Mr. Chávez also sought regularly to intimidate the opposition, and he drove some opposing politicians into exile with threats to have them arrested. But opposition leaders say that being politically active is much riskier today.
查韦斯也曾经常试图恐吓反对派，他曾威胁要抓捕一些反对派政治人士，于是迫使这些人开始流亡。但是反对​​派领导人说，在政治领域表现活跃的话，如今更加危险。
“Maduro’s problem is that he does not project leadership, so he has to make up for it by trying to look strong,” said Stalin González, an opposition legislator. “People laugh at him; they don’t take him seriously. It’s like a bully at school. They laugh at him, and he resorts to violence so that they will respect him.”
 “马杜罗的问题在于，他没有展现出领导力，所以他不得不通过表面上的强硬姿态来弥补这一点，”反对党议员斯大林·冈萨雷斯(Stalin González)说。 “人们嘲笑他，不把他当回事。就像一个校霸一样。他们嘲笑他，他便诉诸暴力，这样人们才会尊重他。”
Mr. Maduro, a civilian with no military background, has loaded his government with military officers to a greater extent than Mr. Chávez, a former paratrooper who celebrated the trappings of military life.
马杜罗是一个没有军方背景的平民，他在政府里安排了比查韦斯政府更多的军官。查韦斯之前曾是伞兵，对军旅生活的各个方面颇为推崇。
The ministers of finance, the interior and food and Mr. Maduro’s chief of staff are military officers, as are a number of other cabinet members.
财政部、内政部和食品部部长，以及马杜罗的幕僚长都是军官，其他一些内阁成员也不例外。
“The ministerial positions that manage the greatest economic resources are in the hands of military officers,” said Rocío San Miguel, president of Control Ciudadano, a group that monitors the military. She said that more than a quarter of government ministers were now current or former military officers, compared with one in five near the end of Mr. Chávez’s presidency.
“控制着最大经济资源的部长职务都由军官担任，”监督军队的组织“公民控制”(Control Ciudadano)的负责人罗西奥·圣米格尔(Rocío San Miguel)说。她说，超过四分之一的政府部长目前都是现任或前任军官，这个比例在查韦斯总统任期即将结束时为五分之一。
Mr. Maduro has also lavished perks on the military, giving the armed forces their own television station, a bank and other prizes.
马杜罗也毫不吝啬地对军队给予了特殊待遇，给他们提供了专门的电视台、一家银行及其他好处。
That has raised questions of whether Mr. Maduro has drawn the military close to build alliances, whether he is a captive of interests beyond his control, or both.
人们由此质疑，马杜罗是否是想通过拉拢军队来建立联盟关系，还是说他已被超出自身控制的利益集团所俘虏，抑或两者皆有。
Mr. Maduro was handpicked by Mr. Chávez, who was sick with cancer, to succeed him, and Mr. Maduro won a presidential election by a narrow margin in 2013.
马杜罗是得了癌症的查韦斯精心挑选的继承人。2013年，马杜罗以微弱的优势赢得了总统竞选。
Yet to many he still seems stuck in Mr. Chávez’s shadow. Even his backers describe him in relation to his mentor.
然而，在许多人看来，马杜罗至今仍然没有走出查韦斯的阴影。就连支持者也会在谈到他时牵扯到他的导师。
“He learned from Chávez to look at reality straight on and attack it as it is,” said Roy Daza, a member of Mr. Maduro’s United Socialist Party in the Latin American Parliament, a regional body.
“他师承查韦斯，直面现实，迎难而上，”罗伊·达萨(Roy Daza)说。达萨隶属于马杜罗领导的联合社会党(United Socialist Party)，是地区机构拉丁美洲议会的议员。
Critics say that attack typically focuses on the symptoms, not the roots, of longstanding problems. Faced with huge lines and shortages of basic items like corn flour or sugar, Mr. Maduro has jailed retail executives while steadfastly maintaining the price controls that many economists say cause the problem.
批评人士表示，马杜罗的应对方式往往是对长期存在的问题治标不治本。面对玉米粉或糖这类基本物品的短缺和采购者的长队，马杜罗却将零售业的高管关起来，同时牢牢把控着物价。许多经济学家表示，这种物价控制正是问题的根源。
“Instead of attacking the structural causes that create these problems, they are attacking the consequences,” Mr. Álvarez, the former minister under Mr. Chávez, said of Mr. Maduro’s government.
谈到马杜罗政府的时候，曾在查韦斯手下担任内阁部长的阿尔瓦雷斯表示，“他们没有去着手解决制造这些问题的结构性原因，而是在拿由此导致的后果开刀。”
Mr. Maduro has shown a talent for juggling internal pressures and factions within the movement left behind by Mr. Chávez, sidelining some rivals and accommodating others.
马杜罗倒是显示出了一种本事：在国内压力及集团内查韦斯遗留下来的不同派别间周旋。他排挤了一些对手，又拉拢了另外一些人。
He pushed Jorge Giordani, a close adviser to Mr. Chávez, out of government and then suppressed a mini-revolt by Mr. Giordani’s supporters in his party’s left wing. And he has marginalized Rafael Ramírez, the powerful former head of the government oil company, PDVSA, removing him from that post and other crucial positions before finally packing him off as ambassador to the United Nations.
他将查韦斯的亲密幕僚豪尔赫·希尔达尼(Jorge Giordani)逐出了政府，而后又平抑了希尔达尼在党内左翼的支持者发动的一次小型叛乱。他还让委内瑞拉国家石油公司(PDVSA)有权有势的老板拉斐尔·拉米雷斯(Rafael Ramírez)靠边，把他从包括这一职位在内的多个重要位置上调离，最后打发他去了联合国当常驻代表。
But Diosdado Cabello, the president of the National Assembly and a former military officer, is considered Mr. Maduro’s main rival for power and also the government figure with the greatest influence within the armed forces.
不过，国民议会主席迪奥斯达多·卡韦略(Diosdado Cabello)被认为是与马杜罗争夺权势的主要对手。身为退役军官的迪奥斯达多还是在武装力量中影响力最大的政府官员。
All that has led to a kind of Kremlinology here, with observers speculating on who is behind government actions and whether Mr. Maduro is fully in control.
这就导致了某种克里姆林宫式的情形。观察人士纷纷揣测，到底谁在操控政府行为，马杜罗又是否在全盘掌控？
“There is a lot of internal division. Does Diosdado have more power than Maduro, does someone else?” said Daniel Cuevas, a government worker who voted for Mr. Maduro but is unhappy with the country’s direction. “In the end, that hurts the people.”
“内部有很多分歧。迪奥斯达多的权力盖过了马杜罗吗？还是有其他什么人？”政府工作人员丹尼尔·奎瓦斯(Daniel Cuevas)说。他曾投票给马杜罗，但对国家目前的走向不满。“说到底，受害的是人民。”
Despite his tough talk, Mr. Maduro has also earned a reputation for Hamlet-like indecisiveness. He has spoken for over a year about raising gasoline prices, the world’s lowest, but has taken no action. A long-promised foreign exchange reform last month turned out to be a tweak.
尽管话语强硬，马杜罗还是赢得了像哈姆雷特那样举棋不定的名声。他谈了一年多的提升汽油价格的问题，却没有付诸行动。委内瑞拉的油价为世界最低水平。一项承诺已久的外汇改革政策于上月揭晓，却也只是小打小闹。
“He is an enigma for Venezuelans,” said Mr. Barrera, the columnist, pointing to the mystery around Mr. Maduro’s residence as a metaphor for his presidency.
“他对委内瑞拉人来说是个谜，”专栏作家巴雷拉说。他将围绕着马杜罗住处的秘密作为其总统任期的一种象征。
The official presidential mansion, known as La Casona, is still occupied by one of Mr. Chávez’s daughters, Rosa Virginia, and her husband, Vice President Jorge Arreaza. Mr. Maduro has said the house is for the use of the late president’s family, for their protection.
正式的总统官邸在卡索纳(La Casona)，仍由查韦斯的女儿罗莎·比希尼娅(Rosa Virginia)及其丈夫、副总统豪尔赫·阿雷亚萨(Jorge Arreaza)占据。马杜罗的说法是，房子让他们住是为了保护已故总统的家人。
“He hasn’t even moved into the house that corresponds to him” as president, Mr. Barrera said. “He says that he is going to stand up to the gringos, but he hasn’t even been able to stand up to Chávez’s daughter so that he can occupy the presidential mansion.”
“马杜罗都还没搬进符合总统身份的住宅，”巴雷拉说。“他号称自己要直面外国佬，却连查韦斯的女儿都惹不起，住不进总统官邸。”
A government official, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified, said that Mr. Maduro lives in a residence inside a Caracas military base, Fort Tiuna.
一名要求不具名的政府官员透露，马杜罗目前居住在加拉加斯图那堡(Fort Tiuna)军事基地内的一处宅邸。
Mr. Maduro spends many hours each week on television denouncing his enemies inside and outside the country, including opposition politicians and the United States, in the style of Mr. Chávez. Last month, he ordered the American Embassy to sharply cut its staff.
马杜罗每周花好几个小时在电视上谴责国内外的敌人，采用的风格与查韦斯一致。他抨击的对象中，包括政坛的反对派和美国。上个月，他责令美国大使馆大幅削减人员。
On the air, he describes himself as the victim of international machinations. The evidence he offers is often colorful but far from convincing to many Venezuelans, including many supporters. He rarely appears in public without his wife, Cilia Flores, a former legislator whom he calls the First Combatant.
在这些节目中，马杜罗将自己描绘成国际阴谋的受害者。他提供的证据往往多姿多彩，但对许多委内瑞拉民众，哪怕是不少支持者来说，其说服力还远远不够。他在公共场合出现的时候，妻子西莉亚·弗洛雷斯(Cilia Flores)几乎总在身边。她以前是议员，如今被马杜罗称为“第一斗士”。
At 52, his thick brush of hair and mustache often appear jet black, as if painted on, barely showing signs of gray. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was quoted as commenting on Mr. Maduro’s lustrous hair when the two met recently in Brazil during President Dilma Rousseff’s inauguration, saying, “If I had your hair, I’d be president of the United States.”
马杜罗现年52岁，浓密的头发和胡子通常显出乌黑色，就像画上去的那样，几乎没有灰白的迹象。美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)近期赴巴西出席总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)的就职仪式时，曾与马杜罗会面。据报道，拜登这样评价了马杜罗富有光泽的毛发：“如果我有你这头发，我就能当上美国总统。”
Recently, Mr. Maduro has focused on President Obama, sometimes pretending to speak directly to him during his speeches. He often describes Mr. Obama as a decent man unaware of the sinister forces in his government intent on attacking Venezuela.
这段时间，马杜罗盯上了奥巴马总统，演讲中不时像是直接在与他对话。马杜罗常常将奥巴马说成是个正派的人，没有察觉到自己政府内部意图攻击委内瑞拉的邪恶势力。