On class days, Yao Ming, the 7-foot-6 retired N.B.A. center, wakes up at the crack of dawn to beat the Shanghai traffic. Carrying a lunch prepared by his wife, Ye Li, a 6-foot-3 former player in China’s professional league, Mr. Yao drives more than an hour to Jiao Tong University, where he sits through his required courses in the economics and management department. According to one Chinese news report, Mr. Yao would prefer to live in the dorms with his 20-year-old classmates, a move that would save time and energy, “but the beds are too small.”
有课的日子，身高2.26米的NBA退役中锋姚明为了避开上海的早高峰，一大早就起床。他带着妻子叶莉做的午饭，开一个多小时的车到交通大学去上经济管理系的必修课。叶莉身高1.92米，曾是国家队队员。据中国一篇新闻报道称，姚明本来想与20几岁的同学们一起住宿舍，那样更省时、也更节能，“但床太短了。”
“When I signed my first professional contract with the Shanghai Sharks at age 17, I promised my parents that, after my basketball career ended, I would pursue my studies at the university level,” Mr. Yao told reporters in Shanghai.
姚明在上海告诉记者，“在我17岁签约上海队的时候，我就向父母保证过，会在职业篮球生涯结束之后，上大学进行深造。”
Now in his third year at Jiao Tong University, Mr. Yao is less than two years away from fulfilling that promise.
如今，姚明在交通大学念大三，离实现这个承诺还有不到两年的时间。
It hasn’t always been easy. The 33-year-old can hardly walk anywhere on campus without being swarmed by fans and reportedly complained once that one of his professors was a former high school classmate. But true to his word, Mr. Yao has diligently continued studying, taking English, journalism and finance electives in addition to his required classes.
这并不总是那么容易。33岁的姚明在校园里几乎走到那里都会被球迷围住，据报道他曾经抱怨说，给他授课的一个教授是他的高中同学。但姚明坚守承诺，一直在努力学习，除了必修课以外，他还选了英语、新闻，以及金融等课程。
On his first day of studies in the fall of 2011, Mr. Yao told reporters: “I feel good today, but a little tired, since I haven’t been in class for over 10 years. I am rusty.”
姚明在2011年秋天入学的第一天对记者说，“我今天觉得不错，就是有点累，我十多年没有进教室了，现在感觉有些不适应。”
Returning to the classroom is a common but seldom realized dream for Chinese athletes, many of whom are removed from regular schools in their preteens and placed in athletic institutes. The Chinese government maintains a separate Soviet-inspired network of sports schools that are almost entirely dedicated to increasing China’s Olympic medal count.
对很多中国运动员来说，重返校园是他们共同的梦想，但却很少能实现，他们中的很多人不到13岁就离开正规学校进入体校。中国政府维持着一种受苏联启发的独立体校系统，这些学校的任务几乎完全是为了增加中国的奥运奖牌。
When Mr. Yao first entered the Chinese Basketball Association, the state-run equivalent of the N.B.A., he was reportedly forced to practice 10 hours a day. When Mr. Yao retired at the age of 31 because of injuries, many sports analysts suggested that he had been overworked by the Chinese state athletics system. During the N.B.A.’s off-season, players from the United States and other countries usually use the time to relax and give their bodies time to recuperate. During Mr. Yao’s off-seasons, he would rush back to China to take part in months of rigorous training for the national team.
姚明首次进入中国篮球协会时，据说他每天要训练10个小时。中国篮球协会是类似全美篮球协会(NBA)的、由政府运作的机构。姚明31岁时因伤退役，很多体育分析人士暗示中国的国家体育系统让他超负荷工作。美国和其他国家的NBA球员在休赛季通常会利用那段时间休息，让身体得到恢复。而姚明在休赛季则要返回中国参加国家队为时几个月的高强度训练。
When high-profile Chinese athletes retire, they often are drawn into the political sphere. In 2011, shortly after retiring and becoming the owner of the struggling Shanghai Sharks, the team where he got his professional start, Mr. Yao was elected to be one of seven new members on the Shanghai Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body to the local government. The other new members were all nearly twice his age. In 2013, he was promoted to the National Committee of the C.P.P.C.C. alongside military officers, government officials, state-recognized religious leaders and other prominent figures.
中国著名的运动员退役后经常会进入政坛。姚明在2011年退役并接手处境艰难的上海大鲨鱼队之后不久，就被选为上海市7名新政协委员之一。上海大鲨鱼队是姚明职业生涯的起点。政协委员是当地政府的顾问，其他几名上海市新政协委员的年龄都几乎是姚明的两倍。2013年，他晋升为全国政协委员，与军队官员、政府官员、得到国家认可的宗教的领袖，以及其他著名人物同起同坐。
It is unclear whether Yao’s political responsibilities pose an impediment to his studies, but last week he was photographed in Chicago accompanying Vice Prime Minister Liu Yandong, China’s highest-ranking female politician, to a Chicago Bulls game.The two shared one of the arena’s spectator boxes with Scottie Pippen, the former Chicago Bull; Chicago’s mayor, Rahm Emanuel; and other notables. 
虽然还不清楚姚明的政治责任会不会妨碍他的学业，但上周有人拍到他在芝加哥陪同中国最高级别的女政治人物刘延东副总理观看芝加哥公牛队(Chicago Bulls)比赛的照片。他们两人与芝加哥公牛队前队员斯科蒂·皮蓬(Scottie Pippen)、芝加哥市市长拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)以及其他名人坐在体育馆的同一个包厢里。