After meeting with a group of gay people who said they had been bullied, Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, appeared on the cover of Attitude, a gay magazine, and urged young people to report instances of abuse to an adult.
剑桥公爵威廉王子登上了同性恋杂志《态度》(Attitude)的封面，呼吁年轻人向成年人反映虐待现象。在此之前，威廉王子还会见了一群称自己受到霸凌的同性恋者。
“No one should be bullied for their sexuality or any other reason, and no one should have to put up with the kind of hate that these young people have endured in their lives,” Prince William said in an accompanying statement. “You should be proud of the person you are, and you have nothing to be ashamed of.”
“任何人都不该因为性取向或其他任何原因受到欺侮，任何人都不应容忍这些年轻人在生活中忍受的憎恶，”威廉王子在随杂志一同发表的声明中说。“你应该以自己为傲，不用觉得羞耻。”
The cover was planned weeks before a shooting at a gay nightclub in Orlando, Fla., killed 49 people, but the magazine said in a statement that the type of hatred exhibited by the gunman, Omar Mateen, begins at an early age.
这一期封面的策划发生在造成49人死亡的奥兰多同性恋夜店枪击案的前几周。但该杂志在一份声明中表示，枪手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)表现出的那种仇恨在他小时候就开始了。
“Such violence does not exist in a vacuum but snowballs from intolerance and bullying that begins in classrooms, too often comes from politicians, religious leaders and is often not treated with respect by the media,” the statement read.
“这种暴力并非凭空而来，而是不宽容和欺侮行为滚成的雪球，这种不宽容和欺侮从上学时就开始出现，很多时候来自政界人物和宗教领袖，并且常常得不到媒体的重视，”声明写道。
For Prince William, the decision to meet with members of the lesbian, bisexual, gay and transgender community appears to be a further venture into gay rights issues and an extension of a broader effort to combat bullying. In April, he established a task force to help combat cyberbullying — on Tuesday, Kensington Palace announced that Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the creator of the World Wide Web, had joined the effort.
对威廉王子来说，决定会见同性恋、双性恋和跨性别者群体的成员，似乎是在同性恋权益问题上的又一次尝试，也是一项打击欺侮行为的广泛行动的延伸。4月，他成立了一个工作小组，帮助打击欺侮行为。周二，肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)宣布，万维网的发明者蒂姆·伯纳斯-李爵士(Tim Berners-Lee)加入该小组。
Prince William is not the first royal to champion a high-profile cause, but Arianne Chernock, an associate professor of history at Boston University who specializes in modern British history, said that Prince William; his wife, Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge; and his brother, Prince Harry, had gravitated toward more sensitive topics than others had in the past.
威廉王子不是首位投身广受关注的倡导事业的王室成员，但波士顿大学(Boston University)专门研究现代英国史的副教授艾丽安·彻诺克(Arianne Chernock)表示，威廉王子和他的妻子、剑桥公爵夫人凯瑟琳及弟弟哈里王子关心的话题，比过去其他人关注的更敏感。
L.G.B.T. issues, Ms. Chernock said, might have been seen as “an underdog cause” until relatively recently, and was perhaps the kind of work that would have attracted the duke’s mother, Princess Diana.
彻诺克表示，可能直到最近，LGBT问题还被当做是“一项弱者事业”，是可能会吸引公爵的母亲戴安娜王妃的那种工作。
“I think they’re building on Diana,” Ms. Chernock said, “who really championed the other causes other people didn’t want to touch.”
“我认为他们是在发扬戴安娜的风格，”彻诺克说。“她真的支持其他人不愿触碰的其他事业。”
Ms. Chernock said that Diana understood that the news media could be used to bring awareness to her causes; she also knew that it could help keep the royal family relevant and fashion her image as a royal. When she chose to shake hands with an H.I.V.-positive man in 1987, she was credited with helping to shed light on a cause that had been shunned and ignored.
彻诺克称，戴安娜知道去利用新闻媒体来让外界关注她支持的事业；她也知道这样有助于保持王室的影响力，塑造她作为王室成员的形象。在1987年选择同一个HIV检测呈阳性的人握手时，她的举动被认为有助于人们了解一项一直被逃避和忽略的事业。
"That was a really huge turning point for her,” Ms. Chernock said, “and really did change a lot of the public attitude toward H.I.V. AIDS in particular, but as a consequence, the gay community more generally.”
“对她来说，那真的是一个很大的转折点，”彻诺克说，“真的让公众的态度发生了很大的改变，尤其是对HIV/艾滋病，也因而改变了对同性恋群体的态度。”
Her sons have largely followed her blueprint. In March, Prince Harry made headlines when he spoke about the need for gender equality while on a visit to Nepal. But Prince William’s decision to allow himself to be photographed for a gay magazine, Ms. Chernock said, shows a royal “pushing the envelope further than we’ve seen before.”
她的两个儿子在很大程度上继承了她的风格。3月，哈里王子在访问尼泊尔期间谈到须实行性别平等一事，成为热门新闻。但彻诺克说，威廉王子同意为一份同性恋杂志拍摄封面的决定表明，王室“正在进一步挑战极限”。