ELKHORN, Wis. — The basement room was cleared of pens with blue or black ink, items that could mar paper ballots. Anyone wearing a coat was told to leave it in the hallway, in case something nefarious was hidden underneath. Water bottles, purses and keys were placed on the floor, leaving the large plastic tables smooth and uncluttered.
威斯康星州埃尔克霍恩——地下室里，蓝色或黑色墨水的钢笔都被清除出去了，这些东西可能会弄脏纸质选票。穿着大衣的人被告知要把大衣放在走廊里，以防里面隐藏了什么不好的东西。水瓶、钱包和钥匙都被放在地板上，好让大大的塑料桌子保持平滑整洁。
And at 9 a.m., with the brisk rap of a county clerk’s wooden gavel, the first recount of the 2016 presidential election was underway in Wisconsin, with another recount pending in the neighboring battleground state of Michigan.
上午9点，一名县办事员轻快地敲响了木槌，2016年总统选举的第一次重新计票在威斯康星州开始了，在相邻的另一个摇摆州密歇根，是否重新计票尚未定论。
For the next 12 days, election officials across all 72 counties in Wisconsin will work days, nights and weekends to recount nearly three million ballots, an effort initiated and financed by Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate, who has suggested that voting machines in the state could have been hacked.
在未来12天里，威斯康星州所有72个县的选举官员将日夜工作、周末加班，重新统计近300万张选票，这项活动由绿党总统候选人吉尔·斯坦(Jill Stein)发起和出资，她认为该州的投票机有可能遭到了黑客攻击。
Very few people expect that the recount will reverse the outcome of the election. President-elect Donald J. Trump triumphed here over Hillary Clinton by 22,177 votes, and in Michigan by 10,704 votes, a margin that a lawyer for Mrs. Clinton, Marc Elias, said had never been overcome in a recount. Legal challenges to the vote in Pennsylvania, where Mr. Trump leads by 70,638 votes, are also underway.
几乎没有人期望重新计票会扭转选举的结果。候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在该州领先希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)22177票，在密歇根州领先10704票，克林顿的律师马克·埃利亚斯(Marc Elias)说，从来没有任何重新计票可以推翻这样大的差距。在宾夕法尼亚州，对计票的法律挑战也在进行中，特朗普在该州领先70638票。
As Wisconsin was beginning to take another look at its votes, the efforts in Michigan and Pennsylvania remained in flux.
随着威斯康星州的重新计票逐渐展开，密歇根和宾夕法尼亚要求重新计票的努力仍然面临不确定性。
The Michigan secretary of state’s office announced that Mr. Trump on Thursday objected to the recount, halting plans to begin the process on Friday. Lawyers for Mr. Trump argued that Ms. Stein did not qualify to demand a recount and that it would not be finished in time for the Electoral College, which meets on Dec. 19. The board plans to hear the objection on Friday, and if it rejects it, the recount would probably commence on Tuesday.
密歇根州州务卿办公室宣布，特朗普在周四反对重新计票，于是周五开始重新计票的计划也被叫停。特朗普的律师们认为，斯坦没有资格要求重新计票，而且重新计票也无法在12月19日选举团会议之前完成。委员会计划在周五听取特朗普的反对意见，如果该意见遭委员会拒绝，重新计票可能会在周二开始。
In Pennsylvania, where Ms. Stein’s efforts have more hurdles, election officials in Philadelphia said on Thursday that, pending litigation, they would begin recounting votes in 75 precincts on Friday, a small portion of the nearly 1,700 in the city. The elections commission, though, denied a request for a full forensic audit of the city’s voting machines.
在宾夕法尼亚州，斯坦的努力遇到了更多障碍，费城的选举官员周四表示，在相关诉讼期间，他们将于周五开始在75个选区内进行重新计票，这只占该市近1700个选区中的一小部分。但是，选举委员会拒绝了对该市的投票机进行全面检验的要求。
Here in Elkhorn, a city of about 10,000 people in Walworth County in southern Wisconsin, the recount began in a government building downtown, where workers approached their task with both urgency and trepidation. They are expecting to count ballots for close to 12 hours a day until the task is complete – their deadline is Dec. 12. The Electoral College will vote on Dec. 19.
埃尔克霍恩位于威斯康星州南部的沃尔沃思县，约有一万居民，重新计票工作在市中心的一栋政府建筑内进行，工作人员带着紧迫感和恐惧感来开展这项任务。他们预计每天要花12小时来清点选票，直到任务完成——截止日期是12月12日。总统选举团将在12月19日投票。
“We’re going to be working long hours, but we’re going to get this done,” said Kimberly S. Bushey, the clerk for Walworth County. When a co-worker suggested that the group would be taking a lunch break at some point, she answered with a terse “Maybe.”
沃尔沃思县的文书金伯利·布希(Kimberly S. Bushey)说：“我们每天要工作很长时间，但我们会完成工作的。”当一个同事建议团队休息一下，去吃午饭时，她只是简单地回应了一句“也许去吧”。
Tabulators, mostly retirees, are being paid $25 for each half day they work, and county officials say they would bring in workers as needed to count the 51,000 ballots in time.
点票者大多数是退休人员，他们每工作半天的收入是25美元，县官员说他们会找到足够多的人手，按时完成这5.1万张选票的清点工作。
In Wisconsin, recounts are not terribly unusual. Another vast statewide recount happened only four years ago, for a seat on the state’s Supreme Court. The recount took more than a month. Wisconsin voters also took part in a failed effort to recall Gov. Scott Walker in 2012.
在威斯康星州，重新计票也并非极不寻常的事情。就在四年前还进行过一次全州性的重新计票，那次涉及该州最高法院的一个席位。重新计票花了一个多月时间。威斯康星州的选民还参与了2012年罢免州长斯科特·沃克(Scott Walker)的努力，但是失败了。
Michael Cotter, a staff member in the county clerk’s office, stood on the sidelines on Thursday morning and recalled at least three other recounts that he had taken part in, dating from a countywide do-over for a judicial seat in the spring of 2000.
周四上午，沃尔沃思县办公室工作人员迈克尔·科特尔(Michael Cotter)站在一旁观看了重新计票的过程。他记得自己至少还参加过三次重新计票，最早可以追溯到2000年春为一个司法职位在全县进行重新计票。
“We had punch ballots back then, so I knew all about pregnant chads and hanging chads before Bush and Gore,” he said. “They kept falling out of the ballots and they were all over the floor, like confetti.”
“那时候还是打孔选票，所以在布什(Bush)和戈尔(Gore)那次竞选之前，我就知道孕妇票（pregnant chads，一种废票——译注）和连孔票（打孔机没打干净的选票，有可能作废——译注）之类的东西，”他说。“它们不停地从选票中剔除，满地都是，就像五彩纸屑一样。”
Election officials here seemed determined to keep the process orderly. Observers were told to stay several feet away from the tabulators, on one side of the room marked off by green tape. Donna Emelity, a tabulator, said she was volunteering out of a sense of civic duty. “Wisconsin is run very honest,” she said. “I think it will prove to people that it’s an honest election and it’ll help people have more confidence.”
当地的选举官员似乎决心让这个过程有序地进行。观察人员被告知要待在房间里用绿色胶带标出的那一边，距离制表机几英尺远的地方。制表员唐娜·埃梅尔(Donna Emelity)表示，她是出于一种公民义务而自愿来做这份工作。“威斯康星的选举是诚实的，”她说。“我觉得它会向人们证明，这是一次诚实的选举，会有助于增强人们的信任。”
Representatives of the campaigns were allowed to be closer to the process, peering over the shoulders of election officials as they tested machines and used pliers to snip open white plastic sacks of ballots.
竞选代表们可以靠得更近，他们站在选举官员身后，看他们测试机器，用钳子剪开白色的塑料投票箱。
Mary Gilding, a volunteer for the Stein campaign who was there to oversee the recount, said that she did not “have a dog in this fight,” but merely wanted to ensure that the election results were accurate.
斯坦竞选活动的志愿者、前来监督重新计票过程的玛丽·吉尔丁(Mary Gilding)表示，她“与此事没有利益关系”，只是想确保选举结果是准确的。
“I hope we find that there won’t be anything that went wrong in our little county,” Ms. Gilding said. “But with all that’s going on with hacking, we need to find out for sure.”
“我希望结果会证明，在我们这个小小的县里，没出问题，”吉尔丁说。“但因为有各种黑客袭击行为存在，我们需要确认这一点。”
Ms. Stein has argued that counting by hand is more accurate than machine recounting, but lost a hearing on Tuesday that could have mandated a statewide hand count. That left the decision up to individual county clerks, who opted mostly for a hand count. A few said they were bowing to demands from people who found counting by machines to be suspicious; Walworth County officials said they would use a combination of counting by hand and feeding ballots into an optical scanner.
斯坦坚持认为人工计票比机器重新计票更准确，但她在周二举行的一场听证会上失败了，她本可以通过这次听证会获得在全州范围内进行手工计票的授权。现在只能由县政府工作人员个人来决定，他们大多倾向于手工计票。有些人表示，他们是屈从于对机器计票有疑问的人提出的要求；沃尔沃思县官员表示，他们会结合使用人工计票和光学扫描仪计票两种方式。