Verizon Communications agreed Tuesday to buy AOL for $4.4 billion in an all-cash deal that will see today's king of mobile acquire the one-time king of media. Instead of aiming at desktop computers, Verizon and AOL want to put content and new advertising technology on today's most ubiquitous computing device, the cellphone.
周二，威瑞森电信(Verizon Communication)同意以44亿美元（约合273亿元人民币）的价格收购美国在线(AOL)，这笔全现金交易将见证当今的移动通讯之王收购曾经的媒体之王的过程。威瑞森电信和AOL没有瞄准台式电脑，而是打算将内容及新的广告技术用于当今最普遍的计算装置——手机中。
Verizon is betting that by adding a layer of entertainment, advertising and services to its vast network of smartphones, it can attract more customers and find new sources of revenue.
威瑞森希望，通过向其庞大的智能手机网络加入娱乐、广告及服务，该公司能够吸引更多顾客，找到新的收入来源。
“Verizon's vision is to provide customers with a premium digital experience based on a global multiscreen network platform,” Lowell C. McAdam, Verizon's chief executive, said in a statement. “This acquisition supports our strategy to provide a cross-screen connection for consumers, creators and advertisers to deliver that premium customer experience.”
“威瑞信希望为用户提供基于全球多屏网络平台的优质数码体验，”威瑞信首席执行官洛厄尔·C·麦克亚当(Lowell C. McAdam)发表声明称。“这一并购交易支持我们的战略，即为用户、创造者和广告主提供一种跨屏连接，从而为用户带来优质的客户体验。”
With its purchase of AOL, Verizon is redoubling its push to become a leader in so-called over-the-top video, shorthand for television content distributed through the Internet.
通过收购AOL，威瑞信正加倍努力成为所谓的OTT视频领域的领跑者，OTT视频指的是通过网络传播的电视内容。
“The world is going mobile, and it is going there really quickly,” said Tim Armstrong, AOL's chief executive. “The combination will be a big chair at a big table. We have assets that can cleanly plug in and scale on top of Verizon's platform.”
“世界正在向移动化发展，而且速度非常快，”AOL首席执行官蒂姆·阿姆斯特朗(Tim Armstrong)说。“因此产生了一个巨大的机遇。我们拥有足够的资产，可以依托于威瑞森的平台，轻易地抓住这个机遇，并加以扩大。”
He will stay with AOL after the acquisition and said that by doing so, he would be positioned to help build the phone company's growing content business.
收购完成后，他将继续留在AOL，还表示这样做有助于这家电话公司发展正在壮大的内容业务。
In acquiring AOL, Verizon is buying more than websites that host streaming content. AOL also manages a dwindling but profitable dial-up Internet business, providing online access for those who live in areas too remote to have broadband, or who never canceled their subscriptions.
通过收购美国在线，威瑞森购买的不仅是提供流内容的网站。AOL还在运营数量不多、但利润较高的拨号上网业务，为那些因为地处偏远而无法安装宽带或从未取消注册的人提供上网服务。
Verizon will pay $50 a share for AOL, a 17 percent premium over the company's closing share price of $42.59 on Monday. Verizon will fund the deal with cash and short-term debt.
威瑞森将以每股50美元的价格收购AOL，比公司周一42.59美元的收盘价高了17%。威瑞森将用现金和短期债务来为此次交易筹资。
AOL comes with plenty of distractions, most notably the fate of The Huffington Post. Details of The Huffington Post's business have not been disclosed, but late last year Armstrong said Huffington Post sites brought in hundreds of millions of dollars in annual revenue.
随AOL而来的还有一些烦心事，其中最引人注目的就是《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)的命运。关于《赫芬顿邮报》业务的细节尚未公布，但阿姆斯特朗去年表示，它的网站带来了数亿美元的年收入。
Asked if Arianna Huffington, who runs the network of domestic and international news sites, was planning to work for Verizon, Armstrong said: “Yes, definitely.”
当被问到阿里安娜·赫芬顿(Arianna Huffington)——公司的国内和国际新闻网站网络的负责人——是否计划为威瑞森工作时，阿姆斯特朗说：“当然会。”
Huffington declined to comment.
赫芬顿拒绝置评。