NEW DELHI — THEY can’t do without the farmer story. When people who wish to transform India through the Internet talk about their plans, they tend to tell a story that goes something like this: A poor farmer is about to sell his crop very cheap when someone, often a smart adolescent granddaughter, checks the market price online, and the farmer makes a more informed decision.
新德里——他们离不开那个农民的故事。每当希望通过互联网来改变印度的人们对他们的计划侃侃而谈的时候，总想讲述大致这样一个故事：一个贫穷的农民正要贱卖他的庄稼时，某人，经常是十几岁的聪明孙女，去网上查了市场价格，农民做出了一个更有依据的决定。
It appears that technology executives feel they must treat the Internet as something deeply noble and serious in order to substantiate its importance in an impoverished nation.
看来科技公司的高管们认为，要证实互联网对贫困国家的重要性，必须把它塑造为一个极为高尚和严肃的事物。
Even Facebook, that great time suck of FarmVille, not farmers, seems to have suffered a head injury and is now imagining itself as Mother Teresa. Internet.org, the company’s recent push along with other companies to bring affordable access to the more than two-thirds of the world that is not yet online, has the grave tone of social reformation. Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, said last month that the goal was to “create a backbone for many things, including access to information, access to information about health care, education, jobs and just so many good things.”
甚至Facebook，那个推出过让人无限沉迷的游戏《农场》(FarmVille)——而不是农民——的公司，也仿佛头部受了伤，开始把自己幻想成特蕾莎修女(Mother Teresa)。它最近和其他公司联手推出Internet.org，旨在为占全世界三分之二以上的无网络地区提供廉价互联网连接，整个行动带有社会改造的凝重色彩。Facebook创始人马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)上个月表示建立该网站的目的是“创立一个支柱，便于来做许多事，包括获取信息，获取有关医疗保障、教育、就业在内的信息以及许许多多有益的东西。”
Too many people presume that what the poor want from the Internet are the crucial necessities of life. In reality, the enchantment of the Internet is that it’s a lot of fun. And fun, even in poor countries, is a profound human need. Quality of life is as much an assortment of happy frivolities as it is the bare essentials of survival. And India is a perpetual reminder that a lot of good — even the somber sociological stuff — can come from people setting out in pursuit of joy.
有太多人以为穷人需要从互联网获取的是关键的生活必需品。事实上，互联网的吸引力在于它带来了很多乐趣。而乐趣，即使在贫穷国家，也是重要的人类需求。要衡量生活的质量，享有各种乐趣和拥有起码的生存必需一样重要。而印度也一直提醒着我们，当人们开始追求快乐，会有很多好的东西随之而来——甚至包括一些严肃的社会学内容。
What the poor want from a technological revolution is probably best understood by watching the way they react to electricity. They do not crave electricity so they can keep newborns warm in incubators. They want it for the simple pleasure.
看看穷人对电的反应，也许最能帮助我们理解他们希望从技术革命中获得什么。他们渴求电力，不是为了要把新生婴儿放在恒温育婴箱里。他们需要的是简单的快乐。
Chibaukhera, a village in northern India where electricity has been available only since March of this year, is now under the spell of television. As television sets were much sought-after and prestigious dowries, several houses had them even before they got electricity. Now that the TVs and plugs have finally met, the villagers are hooked on Hindi films and serials about family feuds. In time, they will have incubators, too.
印度北部村庄契巴乌赫拉(Chibaukhera)今年3月刚刚通电，而如今全村都为电视着了魔。电视机一直是深受欢迎、彰显身份的嫁妆，有几家甚至在通电之前就已经有了电视机。现在电视机和电源插头终于连接起来了。村民们痴迷地观看讲述家庭纠纷的印地语电影和电视剧。他们迟早也会拥有恒温育婴箱。
It is not always true that entertainment is the collateral consequence of progress; progress, often, is the collateral benefit of the pursuit of pleasure.
要说娱乐是进步的副产品，并非总是这样；其实进步，经常源自对快乐的追求过程。
So what is the problem if Facebook and others have acquired a halo as they try to reach out to developing nations with false notions about what the poor actually want? After all, they do plan to bring the Internet to places that do not have access. But the tech industry’s misreading of the biggest audience in its own revolution will lure it into committing the same mistake of so many other altruistic projects.
那么Facebook和其他公司头顶光环，努力帮助发展中国家，但却错误理解了穷人的实际需求，这会产生什么问题呢？毕竟，他们确实打算把互联网带入没有联网的地区。但科技产业对它们自己发起的这场革命的主要受众存在误读，会导致和其他无私奉献的项目一样的错误。
The last 15 years have seen numerous well-intentioned missions to transform society through computers and the Internet — remember One Laptop Per Child? — but few of them have had much impact.
过去15年间，有许多想通过电脑和互联网改变社会的善意计划——记得“每童一电脑”(One Laptop Per Child)吗？——但鲜有实效。
Today, of the roughly 207 million occupied rural homes in India, only about 1.2 million have computers with an Internet connection. But there are 300 million cellphone subscriptions in these areas. And according to a recent survey, more than seven million of those users connect to the Internet only through their phones.
如今，在印度2.07亿农村人口中，仅有约120万人的电脑接入互联网。但在这些地区，有3亿手机用户。最近的一项调查显示，700多万手机用户仅通过手机使用互联网。
The extraordinary triumph of the cellphone among India’s poor stemmed from its ability to enable a most mundane human need, which is to chat with other people. And when the poor chat, it is not always about curing a child of diarrhea.
手机在印度穷人中大获成功，这源于手机能够满足人类最基本的一个需求，那就是和其他人聊天。而当穷人聊天时，话题并非总是关于给孩子治痢疾。
The Indian government has several valiant plans to bring Internet access to the villages, but they largely center on connecting government offices for ID databases and for software simulation to teach citizens skills like plumbing. Wouldn’t it be better if the poor were offered direct connectivity over their phones, free or cheap, and were left to decide what they wanted to do with it?
印度政府有几项英勇计划，让互联网进入乡村。但这些项目多着眼于连接政府机构，以建立身份数据库，并进行软件模拟，以向村民教授各种技术，比如管道维修。如果穷人能直接通过手机得到免费、或廉价的互联网连接，并自行决定如何使用，是否会更好呢？
Mr. Zuckerberg’s belief that connectivity is a human right is honorable. Where he and his allies err is in imagining that fun is not, and in underestimating the power of entertainment to transform society. Chatting with friends online may not save the world, but if it can get more people to log on, the rest will follow.
扎克伯格认为互联是人类权利，这是个令人肃然起敬的想法。但他和他的盟友们错就错在臆断乐趣并非改变社会的力量，而且低估了娱乐在改变社会方面的实力。和朋友在网上聊天也许无法拯救世界，但如果有更多的人能上网，其他的改变会随之产生。
Many years ago, when I worked for a lifestyle magazine, I was given my worst assignment ever. I had to call some of the richest people in southern India and ask them what they usually had for breakfast. The first man I called told me, “I don’t eat gold biscuits.” It was a well-deserved reprimand for presuming that rich people were somehow different from other humans.
多年前，我为一个时尚生活类杂志工作，接手过一个迄今为止最糟糕的工作任务。我必须给印度南部最富有的一些人士打电话，询问他们早饭一般吃什么。我联系的第一个人就告诉我，“我不吃金子做的饼干。”一厢情愿以为富人就和其他人不一样，活该受这顿训斥。
It is equally ridiculous to presume that what poor people want from the Internet is lessons in plumbing.
而现在设想穷人希望从互联网获得的是管道维修课程，同样荒唐可笑。