Charlotte Deutsch, who will be 2 years old next month, has a look of pure delight as she swipes the screen of her mother’s old iPhone, and finds a picture of herself.
下个月将满2岁的夏洛特·多伊奇(Charlotte Deutsch)滑动她妈妈的旧iPhone屏幕，并找到了一张自己的照片，这时她露出了欣喜的神色。
“Baby Chacha!” she crows, swiping again to encounter another treasure. “Dada!”
“夏夏宝贝！”她满意地叫道，然后再次滑动屏幕，找到另一个宝物。“爸爸！”
On the new iPhone — the one her mother actually uses — her big sister, Izzy, 4, is utterly intent on “Dora’s Ballet Adventure,” her tiny thumb tapping away at the stars and arrows.
她4岁的姐姐伊齐(Izzy)正在用妈妈使用的新iPhone专心致志地玩《朵拉的芭蕾冒险》(Dora’s Ballet Adventure)，用小小的拇指敲走上面的星星和箭头。
The iPhones, loaded with 20 children’s apps and some 1,200 photographs, are among the girls’ favorite playthings. “The little one loves to go through the pictures and name who’s in them, see her grandma and her nanny,” said their mother, Tina Deutsch, a former nursery school teacher. “The older one loves the games, and taking pictures. She loves the clicking sound, and if it’s blurry, she knows how to delete it.”
这两个装有20款儿童应用和约1200张相片的iPhone是两个女孩最喜爱的玩具之一。“小一些的喜欢翻看照片，辨识照片里的人，看奶奶和保姆，”她们的母亲、前幼儿园教师蒂娜·多伊奇(Tina Deutsch)说。“大一点的喜欢玩游戏和拍照片。她喜欢点击拍摄键发出的声音，如果图片虚了，她还知道如何删除。“
As adults turn, increasingly, to mobile devices like tablets, Kindles, and iPhones, their children — even the smallest ones — are doing so as well, according to a new study, “Zero to Eight: Children’s Media Use in America, 2013” by Common Sense Media, a San Francisco-based nonprofit organization that examines children’s use of technology, and rates children’s apps, games and Web sites.
一项新研究表示，随着越来越多成年人开始使用平板电脑、Kindle和iPhone等移动设备，他们的孩子——连那些年龄非常小的孩子——也是一样。这项叫做《0-8岁：2013年美国儿童媒体使用报告》(Zero to Eight: Children’s Media Use in America, 2013)的新研究由旧金山非营利组织常识媒体(Common Sense Media)开展。他们了解儿童对科技产品的使用，并且评估儿童应用、游戏和网站。
The study is based on a nationally representative Internet survey of 1,463 parents with children under 8.
该研究建立在一个全国性的、具有代表性的网络调查之上，调查对象包括1463名有不到8岁孩子的父母。
Over the last two years, the shift has been drastic. Among children under 2, the survey found, 38 percent had used mobile devices like iPhones, tablets, or Kindles — the same share as children 8 and under who had used such technology in a similar survey two years ago.
过去两年的变化非常明显。调查发现，38%不到2岁的孩子都使用过iPhone、平板电脑或Kindle等移动设备——与两年前一次类似调查中8岁及以下儿童使用这种科技产品的比例相同。
Tablets, in particular, have become far more common. Forty percent of families now own tablets, up from only 8 percent two years ago. And this year’s survey found that 7 percent of the children had tablets of their own.
目前，平板电脑变得尤其普及。现在40%的家庭都拥有平板电脑，而两年前这个比例仅为8%。今年的调查发现，7%的儿童都拥有自己的平板电脑。
“I was blown away by the rapidity of the change,” said Vicky Rideout, the author of both the new report and the 2011 version. “IPhones and tablets are game changers, because they’re so easy to use. While there was some floor on how young you could go with computers and video games, a young child who can touch a picture can open an app, or swipe the screen.”
“我对这种变化的速度之快深感吃惊，”这篇新报道及2011年版报道的作者薇姬·赖德奥特(Vicky Rideout)说。“iPhone和平板电脑改变了游戏规则，因为它们使用起来是如此简单。尽管关于多大可以使用电脑和玩视频游戏还有一定的限制，但是，只要能够碰触图片的小孩就能打开应用程序或滑动屏幕。”
Though many parents express pride and amazement that their young children are so tech-savvy, she said, what has really happened is that technology has gotten much easier to use.
她说，虽然很多家长都对他们年幼孩子对科技的领悟能力如此之强感到骄傲和震惊，但事实是，科技产品的使用变简单了许多。
Certainly, mobile devices are more convenient than traditional technology, whether for a parent’s own use or for distracting a fussy child in a restaurant.
当然，移动设备比传统科技产品使用起来更加方便，不论是家长自己用，还是他们用来在餐厅里转移难以取悦的孩子的注意力。
“I know if I need Zoe to be quiet for an hour, I can hand her the iPad and I won’t hear from her,” said Dr. Laurel Glaser, a Philadelphia physician with two daughters, Zoe, 5, and Maya, 1,
费城的内科医生劳雷尔·格拉泽博士(Dr. Laurel Glaser)说，“我知道，如果要让佐耶(Zoe)安静一小时，我可以把iPad递给她，这样我就听不到她的声音了。”格拉泽有两个孩子，5岁的佐耶和1岁的马娅(Maya)。
Dr. Glaser was one of the few parents interviewed who said she tried to follow the American Academy of Pediatrics’ recommendation that children under 2 should have no screen time.
格拉泽博士和另外几名接受采访的家长都表示，他们尝试遵循美国儿科学会(The American Academy of Pediatrics)的建议——2岁以下的儿童不应该待在屏幕前。
“I’m not superstrict and sometimes we have the television on and both girls see it,” she said. “But we don’t have any baby apps for Maya.”
“我不是特别严格，有时候我们开着电视，两个女儿都会看，”她说。“但我们没为马娅安装任何幼儿应用。”
Mostly, the group’s recommendation is ignored. The survey found that children under 2, on average, spend an hour a day in front of screens — engaging in activities like watching television, using computers, viewing DVDs, playing with mobile apps. Children ages 2 to 4 averaged two hours a day, and those 5 to 8, two hours and 20 minutes.
大部分人都会无视该组织的建议。这项调查发现，2岁以下的儿童平均每天在屏幕前待一个小时，参与的活动包括看电视、使用电脑，看DVD，使用移动应用等。2到4岁的儿童平均每天花费两小时，5到8岁的儿童平均每天花费2小时20分钟。
There are vast numbers of apps for babies and children, available free or at low cost: educational apps to teach letters, numbers, shapes, sign language; apps featuring television characters like Dora the Explorer; game apps (Angry Birds is a favorite with all ages); and art and music apps.
有大量供幼儿和儿童使用的免费应用或低价应用：教认字母、数字、形状和手语的教育应用、以《爱冒险的朵拉》(Dora the Explorer)等电视人物为主题的应用、游戏应用（《愤怒的小鸟》[Angry Birds]受到了各个年龄段的喜爱），以及艺术和音乐应用。
Many families, like the Deutsches, have smartphones with collections of family photos and videos of their children’s recent outings, haircuts or play dates.
很多家庭像多伊奇家一样，智能手机中都保存了家庭照片和孩子近期外出游玩、理发及玩耍的视频。
“It used to be that a screen was a screen was a screen, and children just sat and watched,” said Ms. Rideout. “But now it can be lots of different things.”
“过去屏幕就是屏幕，孩子们只是坐着看，”赖德奥特说。“但现在，它可以是很多不同的东西。”
The time younger children spent on mobile devices was still relatively short, the study found. On average, children under 8 spent 15 minutes a day on mobile devices, up from 5 minutes a day in 2011. Among those who used a mobile device during a typical day, the average was an hour and seven minutes, up from 43 minutes in 2011.
该研究发现，年龄较小的儿童在移动设备上花费的时间仍然相对短一些。8岁以下的儿童通常每天花费15分钟玩移动设备，而2011年每天的使用时间为5分钟。对于那些有移动设备使用习惯的儿童，他们通常每天的平均使用时间为1小时零7分钟，多于2011年的43分钟。
But as mobile devices have become more popular, the amount of time children spend with the screens of more traditional technology — television, DVDs, video games and computers — has declined by half an hour a day over the last two years.
但随着移动设备变得越来越普及，儿童在应用传统技术的屏幕——电视、DVD、视频游戏及电脑——前花费的时间在过去两年里减少了半小时。
Television still dominates, though, taking up about half of all children’s screen media time.
但电视仍然占主导地位，在儿童的屏幕时间中，有一半是花在看电视上。
Almost all parents of children under 8 have televisions, the survey found, and most have cable as well. Three in 10 now have Internet connectivity with their televisions, so they can stream shows to their set from Netflix or other services. And increasingly, television is time-shifted — streamed, on demand, or recorded for later use — to suit the viewers’ convenience.
调查发现，几乎所有8岁以下儿童的家长都有电视机，其中大多数安装了有线电视。十分之三家庭的电视能够与网络连接，他们可以通过Netflix或其他服务商在电视机上观看自己喜欢的节目。而且渐渐地，电视拥有了时移功能——网上观看、视频点播、录下来以后看——方便观众的使用。
The study was conducted with a probability-based online panel by GfK, a research company. The data was collected May 20 to June 12 and has a sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
开展该研究的依据是调查公司捷孚凯(GfK)提供的一个基于概率的在线样本库。数据的收集时间是5月20日至6月12日，抽样误差为正负四个百分点。