THOSE of us in the news media have sometimes blamed Donald Trump’s rise on the Republican Party’s toxic manipulation of racial resentments over the years. But we should also acknowledge another force that empowered Trump: Us.
我们这些媒体人有时会把唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的崛起归咎于共和党多年来对种族仇恨进行的有害操控。但我们也应该承认，另一个让特朗普变得强大的因素是我们自己。
I polled a number of journalists and scholars, and there was a broad (though not universal) view that we in the media screwed up. Our first big failing was that television in particular handed Trump the microphone without adequately fact-checking him or rigorously examining his background, in a craven symbiosis that boosted audiences for both.
我和不少记者和学者交换过意见，很多人（虽然并非所有人）都认为，我们这些媒体人把事情搞砸了。我们——尤其是电视新闻同仁——所犯的第一个大错是：把话筒递给特朗普之前，没有针对他进行充分的事实核查或者严格的背景调查。而这种没有骨气的共生关系为二者都提升了关注度。
“Trump is not just an instant ratings/circulation/clicks gold mine; he’s the motherlode,” Ann Curry, the former “Today” anchor, told me. “He stepped on to the presidential campaign stage precisely at a moment when the media is struggling against deep insecurities about its financial future. The truth is, the media has needed Trump like a crack addict needs a hit.”
“特朗普不仅仅是能够立即提高收视率/发行量/点击率的源泉；他简直就是一座大金矿。”《今日秀》(Today)前主播安·库里(Ann Curry)告诉我。“他登上选战舞台之际，恰好是媒体极度担心自己的财务前景之时。事实上，媒体需要特朗普，就像吸食毒品上瘾的人需要来上一剂一样。”
Curry says she’s embarrassed by the unfairness to other Republican candidates, who didn’t get nearly the same airtime.
库里表示，她为媒体没有公平对待其他共和党候选人而感到尴尬，后者在媒体上的曝光时间远远不及特朗普。
An analysis by The Times found that we in the news media gave Trump $1.9 billion in free publicity in this presidential cycle. That’s 190 times as much as he paid for in advertising, and it’s far more than any other candidate received. As my colleague Jim Rutenberg put it, some complain that “CNN has handed its schedule over to Mr. Trump,” and CNN had lots of company.
《纽约时报》的一项分析显示，在这一届总统选举期间，媒体给特朗普提供了价值19亿美元的免费宣传，相当于其付费广告的190倍，远远高过其他候选人。就像我的同事吉姆·鲁滕贝格(Jim Rutenberg)所说，有些人抱怨“CNN把自己的节目排班表整个都给了特朗普”，而这么做的不止CNN一家，还有很多媒体。
Larry Sabato, a politics professor at the University of Virginia, says television networks “have a lot to answer for.”
弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)政治学教授拉里·萨巴托(Larry Sabato)表示，电视台“有相当大的责任”。
“We all know it’s about ratings, and Trump delivers,” Sabato says. “You can’t take your eyes off him. When Trump is on, I stop what I’m doing and wait for the car crash.”
“我们都知道这跟收视率有关，特朗普能带来收视率，”萨巴托说。“人们没法把视线从他身上挪开。每次特朗普一出来，我就会停下自己手上的事，等着看接下来的口水仗。”
Sabato is particularly critical of Sunday morning news program hosts who have allowed Trump to “appear” by telephone, instead of in person.
萨巴托对周日早间新闻节目主持人尤其有意见，因为他们会允许特朗普通过电话采访“露面”，而不是到演播室做节目。
Although many of us journalists have derided Trump, the truth is that he generally outsmarted us (with many exceptions, for there truly have been serious efforts to pin him down and to investigate Trump University and his various business failings). He manipulated television by offering outrageous statements that drew ever more cameras — without facing enough skeptical follow-up questions.
尽管我们媒体人有不少都嘲笑特朗普，但事实是他通常把我们玩弄于鼓掌之上。（也有很多例外，因为的确有人在严肃认真地查明特朗普的各方面情况，调查特朗普大学和他在商业上的过失。）他操纵电视台的方式是在节目中大放厥词，让他在吸引越来越多镜头的同时，没有受到足够多的后续质疑。
It’s not that we shouldn’t have covered Trump’s craziness, but that we should have aggressively provided context in the form of fact checks and robust examination of policy proposals. A candidate claiming that his business acumen will enable him to manage America deserved much more scrutiny of his bankruptcies and mediocre investing.
并不是说我们不该报道特朗普的疯狂言论，而是说我们本该竭力为观众提供相关的信息核实和严谨的政策建议分析，给他们提供正确理解这些言论的上下文。当一位候选人称自己精明的商业头脑，足以让他胜任治理美国的这项工作时，我们理应对他的破产操作和平庸的投资决策进行更仔细的调查。
All politicians spin, of course. But all in all, I’ve never met a national politician in the U.S. who is so ill informed, evasive, puerile and deceptive as Trump.
当然，所有的政客都会往自己脸上贴金。但我真的没见过美国有哪位全国性政治人物，像特朗普这么不了解情况而又含糊其辞，这么愚蠢而又有欺骗性。
When the fact-check website PolitiFact was ready to choose its “lie of the year” for 2015, it found that the only real contenders were falsehoods by Trump. So it lumped them together and awarded the title to “the many campaign misstatements of Donald Trump.”
当事实核查网站PolitiFact准备评选2015年的“年度谎言”时，它发现真正有力的争夺者都是特朗普的厥词。于是，该网站把这些言论归拢起来，赋予了“唐纳德·特朗普诸多的选战不实之词”这样的称号。
That pattern of prevarication is what we in the media, especially television, didn’t adequately highlight, leaving many voters with the perception that Trump is actually a straight shooter.
我们媒体，尤其是电视媒体，没能充分突显他那种搪塞推诿的风格，这让很多选民留下这样的印象，即特朗普实际上是个坦白正直的人。
The reason for this passivity goes, I think, to a second failure: We wrongly treated Trump as a farce. “The media made a mistake by covering Trump’s candidacy at the start as some sort of joke or media prank,” notes Danielle S. Allen, a political scientist at Harvard. “The repeated use of references to ‘the Donald’ across all platforms structured the conversation around ironical affection for a celebrity rather than around serious conversation of character and policy.”
我认为，出现这种被动局面的原因，正是我们的第二个失败之处：错误地把特朗普参选当成了一场闹剧来对待。“媒体犯了这样一个错误，即从一开始就把报道特朗普参选，当成某种笑话，或是媒体的恶作剧，”哈佛大学政治科学家丹妮尔·S·艾伦(Danielle S. Allen)说。“在各个媒体平台上反复使用‘那位唐纳德’这样的称谓，将对话围绕着对一位名人令人啼笑皆非的喜爱，而非就候选人本身及其政策展开的严肃对话。”
“Trump was quite literally a laugh line,” says Ralph Begleiter, a former CNN correspondent and communications professor at the University of Delaware. Begleiter notes that Sarah Palin received more serious vetting as a running mate in 2008 than Trump has as a presidential candidate.
“特朗普简直就成了一个笑点，”前CNN记者、现任特拉华大学(University of Delaware)传播学教授的拉尔夫·贝格莱特(Ralph Begleiter)说。贝格莱特指出，萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)在2008年作为竞选伙伴所受的严肃媒体调查，也比特朗普现在作为总统候选人的多。
I personally made the mistake of regarding Trump’s candidacy as a stunt, scoffing at the idea that he could be the nominee. Mea culpa.
我个人也犯了这样的错误，把特朗普参选当成一种噱头，嘲笑那种觉得他能成为共和党提名人的想法。我有责任。
We failed to take Trump seriously because of a third media failing: We were largely oblivious to the pain among working-class Americans and thus didn’t appreciate how much his message resonated. “The media has been out of touch with these Americans,” Curry notes.
我们没能足够重视特朗普，是因为媒体存在第三个过失：基本上对美国工薪阶层的痛苦视而不见，因此意识不到特朗普传达的信息会引起多么大的共鸣。“媒体和这些美国人是脱节的，”库里说。
Media elites rightly talk about our insufficient racial, ethnic and gender diversity, but we also lack economic diversity. We inhabit a middle-class world and don’t adequately cover the part of America that is struggling and seething. We spend too much time talking to senators, not enough to the jobless.
媒体精英理所当然地谈论着我们在种族、民族和性别多样性上的不足，但我们同样缺少经济上的多样性。我们将注意力放在中产阶级的世界里，没有充分关注和报道那些正在挣扎和感到愤怒的群体。我们花了太多时间和参议员对话，没有花足够时间在无业人员身上。
All this said, I have to add that I don’t know if more fact-checking would have mattered. Tom Brokaw of NBC did outstanding work challenging Trump, but he says that when journalists have indeed questioned Trump’s untrue statements, nothing much happens: “His followers find fault with the questions, not with his often incomplete, erroneous or feeble answers.”
话虽如此，我还是得承认，我不知道如果当时进行更多的事实核查，情况是不是就会两样。在挑战特朗普方面，NBC的汤姆·布罗考(Tom Brokaw)做出了杰出的工作，但他表示，当记者真的质疑特朗普那些不实言论时，情况也没有太多改观：“他的支持者会跳出来挑这些问题的毛病，而不会认为特朗普那些往往并不完整、错误百出或站不住脚的答案有什么问题。”
Likewise, Bob Schieffer of CBS tells me: “I’m not sure more fact-checking would have changed that much. We’re in a new world where attitude seems to count more than facts.”
CBS的鲍勃·席费尔(Bob Schieffer)也告诉我：“我不能肯定，进行更多的事实核查工作就会让情况大不一样。我们处在一个全新的世界里，在这里，态度似乎比事实更重要。”
That may be true. But I still think that we blew it and that this should be a moment for self-reflection in journalism.
这或许是真的。但我依然觉得我们搞砸了，觉得新闻界此刻应该进行自我反省。
Despite some outstanding coverage of Trump, on the whole we in the media empowered a demagogue and failed the country. We were lap dogs, not watchdogs.
尽管业内的确存在一些有关特朗普的优秀报道，但媒体界整体上赋权给了一位蛊惑人心的政客，因而有负于这个国家。我们成了哈巴狗，而不是看门狗。