A few weeks ago, boarding school students in the Northeast began moving into their dorm rooms armed with all the usual clatter. The Indian print tapestries, the athletic gear, the odd beanbag chair. But a few of them arrived with some extra equipment: their parents.
数周前，东北地区寄宿学校的学生们携带各类常用物品，开始叮铃咣啷地入住宿舍房间。他们带来了印度的印花挂毯、运动装备、奇形怪状的豆袋座椅等等。但其中有些人还带了些额外的“装备”：他们的父母。
In towns like Lakeville, Washington Depot and Sharon, Conn.; Millbrook, N.Y.; Deerfield and North Andover, Mass.; and Newport and Middletown, R.I., some families are buying or renting houses and apartments to be close to their children, who are living in dorms.
在康涅狄格州的莱克维尔(Lakeville)、华盛顿德波特(Washington Depot)和沙伦(Sharon)，纽约州的米尔布鲁克(Millbrook)，马萨诸塞州的迪尔菲尔德(Deerfield)和北安多弗(North Andover)，罗德岛米德尔敦(Middletown)等城镇，有些家庭正筹划购置或租赁别墅和公寓，以便守在住校子女的身边。
It’s a practice nearly unheard-of in decades past, although it is the case that Gen. Douglas MacArthur’s mother followed him to college at West Point, renting a suite at a hotel overlooking the school. While Pinky MacArthur exhibited a 19th-century version of helicopter-parent behavior — nudging her son to study, writing a chief of staff to encourage him to promote her boy — these parents’ choices, they say, reflect a confluence of factors: a new emphasis on family life and new realities regarding work flexibility and longevity.
这种做法，几十年前几乎闻所未闻；不过当年道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟(Douglas MacArthur)将军在西点军校就学期间，他的母亲确实跟随而来，在酒店里租了间能俯瞰学校的套房。虽然品基·麦克阿瑟(Pinky MacArthur)演绎了19世纪版的“直升机父母”——不仅鞭策孩子的学习，还给参谋长写信，请求他提拔自己的儿子；但是如今的陪读父母们都说，他们的选择，是一系列因素相互作用的结果：家庭生活重新引起重视，而工作弹性和职业寿命也发生了新变化。
And for many, a second home in a boarding-school town is a steppingstone to a life in that town once the child has graduated and moved on.
而且，对于许多家庭而言，在寄宿学校所在地安置一个第二居所，也可以为孩子毕业之后的生活铺好路。
The ability to be geographically independent from a professional standpoint means families can make choices they wouldn’t have been able to 30 years ago, said Ruth Kennedy Sudduth, director of the residential brokerage division of LandVest, which handles major properties throughout New England.
LandVest公司打理着新英格兰地区的大部分房产。该公司住宅经纪部的负责人鲁丝·肯尼迪·萨德思(Ruth Kennedy Sudduth)说，就职业角度而言在地域上不受拘束，就意味着家庭可以自主地做出选择，这在30年前是无法想象的。
“It’s really quite prevalent,” Mrs. Kennedy Sudduth said, adding that her firm is listing a $3-million-plus house in the North Andover area for a Boston-based investment manager whose children were boarders at Phillips Academy in Andover. “Maybe it was weird for MacArthur’s mother to follow him around, but now it’s not at all unusual. Families, particularly affluent families, have the ability to be family-centered in their choices of where to live. Ultimately, when economic imperatives aren’t driving things, it is a quest for meaning and a better life, not simply a desire to be on hand for games on Wednesday and Saturday. It becomes a choice: how is the entire family life enriched by having the opportunity to be in a really neat community?”
肯尼迪·萨德思说：“这种做法真的很流行。”她还提到，她的公司正在北安多弗地区挂牌销售一套超过300万美元（约合人民币1850万元）的房子，客户是波士顿一家公司的投资经理，其子女曾是菲利普斯学院(Phillips Academy)的寄宿生。“可能在过去，麦克阿瑟的母亲陪读是件怪事；但现在这一点也不稀奇。现在的家庭——尤其是富裕家庭，有能力以家庭为中心来选择居住地。归根结底，这是为了在没有经济压力的情况下，寻求更有意义、更优质的生活，而不仅仅是为让家长能够观看孩子周三和周六在学校的比赛。这已经变成了一种选择：把握一个机会，定居在非常优质的社区里，能够如何充实整个家庭生活？”
Five years ago, Stephanie and Chris Comfort were living in Englewood, Colo., when their daughter, Katie, started looking at boarding schools. Ms. Comfort, now 51, was working for Qwest, the telecommunications company, and Mr. Comfort, now 55, was a banker pursuing a second career as an addiction counselor. A year and a half into Katie’s tenure at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., Qwest merged with another company.
五年前，斯特凡妮·康福特(Stephanie Comfort)和克里斯·康福特(Chris Comfort)住在科罗拉多州的恩格尔伍德(Englewood)。当时，他们的女儿凯蒂(Katie)开始寻找寄宿学校。现年51岁的康福特太太当时就职于电信公司Qwest，而现年55岁的康福特先生当时是银行职员，正打算将戒瘾咨询师作为第二职业。凯蒂在康涅狄格州莱克维尔的霍奇基斯学校(Hotchkiss School)学习了一年半后，Qwest与另一家公司合并了。
“I had been flying back and forth,” Ms. Comfort said. “But the merger presented an opportunity to rethink how we spent our time. When our son started to look at following in Katie’s footsteps, we bought a place here. So it was this convergence of events. You call it Chapter 2. Certainly it’s easier to think about this change having the monetary flexibility.”
“我之前一直坐飞机来来回回，”康福特太太说，“但是那次合并给了我一次机会，来重新思考我们对时间的利用方式。当他们的儿子打算进入和凯蒂同一家学校时，我们在这里买了套房子。所以，这是一系列事件共同作用的结果。你可以把它视为人生新的一页。当然，在手头比较宽裕的情况下，做出这样的考虑是相对比较容易的。”
The Comforts are splitting their time between their house in Colorado and Lakeville, where Ms. Comfort is now working at a strategy and brand consulting firm. “You realize the trappings of what you find yourself keeping busy with,” she added. “Not that Denver is high-speed, but there is the frenetic moving around. You come to a place like Lakeville, where people clearly have passions, but it’s in this very bucolic, peaceful place. It gives you permission to surrender the trappings. It’s beyond just ‘I want to be at my daughter’s volleyball game.’ Not that I didn’t want to do that, too.”
如今，康福特一家时而住在科罗拉多，时而住在莱克维尔。康福特太太现在就职于莱克维尔的一家策略与品牌咨询公司。“你意识到自己已经身陷各种忙乱的枷锁，”她补充道，“并不是说丹佛是个生活节奏过快的地方，但是那里确实有很多疯狂的东西围绕着你。当你来到莱克维尔之后就会发现，不仅当地人很有活力，而且这里又是个饱含诗意、非常宁静的地方。它解开了你的枷锁。这种生活状态不仅仅是‘我想看女儿的排球赛’那么简单，但也不是说我就不想去看。”
•
Elyse Harney Morris, a principal at Elyse Harney Real Estate in Salisbury, Conn., said that her market is “directly impacted by the prep-school parents.” It started after 9/11 and picked up in earnest five years ago, she said.
伊莱斯·哈尼·莫里斯(Elyse Harney Morris)是康涅狄格州索尔兹伯里(Salisbury)伊莱斯·哈尼房地产公司的负责人。她表示，她这里的市场“直接受到了预科生父母们的影响。”这种影响自“9·11”以后开始显现，五年前进一步加剧了。她说。
“Now, it’s more than 30 percent of our business,” she said. “We are right in the heart of prep school land: Hotchkiss, Millbrook, Salisbury, Berkshire. In this area, education is our No. 1 job producer. In the beginning, parents buy or rent to be closer to their children. As the students get to be juniors, we see more people saying, ‘I have to be there as a support system as they are getting through that college push.’ People think it’s a four-year commitment, but then there are siblings and it’s eight years, and they have become entrenched in the area.”
“现在，它已占据了我们业务量的30%以上，”她说，“我们就处在预科学校的中心地区：霍奇基斯、米尔布鲁克、索尔兹伯里、巴克夏(Berkshire)。在这个地区，教育是最大的就业创造者。一开始，家长会专门买房或租房，以便陪在孩子身边。等到学生进入高二、高三的时候，我们就看到更多的人说，‘我必须在孩子考大学的关键时期过去支持他。’人们认为这是个为期四年的攻坚战，等到家里第二个孩子也来走老大的老路时，四年就延长到了八年。于是这户人家就在这个地区扎根下来了。”
And the prep-school cohort is the higher-range market, she said: houses priced from $900,000 to $5 million and September-to-May rentals that range from $2,000 to $4,500 a month. Factor in boarding school tuition, which is typically more than $50,000 a year, and you’re talking about a significant investment.
预科生陪读大军是一个较高端的市场，莫里斯说，当地房价从90万到500万美元（约合人民币555万到3083万元）不等，去年9月到今年5月的出租房月租在2000到4500美元（约合人民币1.2到2.8万元）之间；再加上寄宿学校的学费——一般为每年5万美元（约合人民币31万元）以上，这就是一大笔投资。
There are tales of optimistic investing, like the couple who recently bought a house in a town where they hope their child might attend boarding school a year from now. And tales of investments gone awry, like the New York City family that rented in a boarding-school town for their son’s freshman year; they renewed the lease the following year, but when he was asked to leave the school in October, they still had to honor the lease, which ran through the following May.
有些家长的投资是乐观的，比如有对夫妇最近在某个城镇买了套房，希望小孩明年能去那里的寄宿学校上学。而有的投资则落空了，比如纽约市有户人家在儿子上寄宿学校的第一学年租了套房，第二年他们续了约，但是当儿子10月被要求离校时，他们还是得履行这份第三年五月才到期的租约。
There are also scenarios that don’t fit the mold.
还有些案例，跟上述一般情况都不同。
Nancy Garcia Ponte, 50, a Rhode Island lawyer, was a runaway at 15, she said. She had her first daughter at 20 and put herself through law school while waitressing. Now divorced from her second husband, she has moved from their home in Cranston to an apartment in Newport because her daughter, Ally, is a freshman at the Portsmouth Abbey School nearby. Ms. Garcia Ponte was determined, she said, to stay connected to Ally in a way her mother wasn’t able to do with her.
南希·加西亚·庞特(Nancy Garcia Ponte)现年50岁，是罗德岛的律师。她说自己15岁离家出走，20岁生下了大女儿，然后一边当服务员一边读完了法学院。现在，她跟第二任丈夫离婚了，从他们在克兰斯顿(Cranston)的家里搬到了纽波特(Newport)的一套公寓，因为她的女儿艾丽(Ally)在附近的朴茨茅斯修道院中学(Portsmouth Abbey School)上一年级。她说，当年她的母亲未能陪在自己身边，而她现在决意陪在女儿艾丽的身边。
“When my daughter brought up boarding school, that was something that was so foreign to me,” she said. “I’m 100 percent Puerto Rican. Neither side of my family had ever set foot in something like that. It’s a fabulous opportunity for her, but I’m not ready to give up parenting.”
“我女儿提到寄宿学校的时候，这对我来说是个完全陌生的概念，”她说，“我是个百分之百的波多黎各人。我父母两边的亲戚都没有上过这种学校。这对她来说是个绝佳的机会，但是我还不打算放弃履行做家长的职责。”
Not that Ms. Garcia Ponte will see her daughter much. Local parents are encouraged to stay away the first few weeks, “so the children can acclimate,” she said. “And they only get two weekends away per trimester.”
并不是说加西亚·庞特会经常跟女儿见面。学校鼓励当地家长在开学的头几周不要介入孩子的生活，“这样孩子们就能自己适应，”她说，“他们每个学期只有两个周末可以离开学校。”
When Barbara and Marc Weiss’s daughter told them she was going to apply to boarding school, Ms. Weiss recalled her reaction. “What do you mean, you’re going to live at school? I never knew anyone who went to boarding school.”
当芭芭拉·维斯(Barbara Weiss)和马克·维斯(Marc Weiss)的女儿告诉父母，她要申请寄宿学校时，维斯太太记得她当时的反应是：“什么意思？你要去住校吗？我认识的人当中没有去过寄宿学校。”
Her daughter’s peers in Bergen County, N.J., she added, mostly attended parochial and public schools. Mr. Weiss works in a family business; Ms. Weiss had been a fund-raiser and is now an interior designer. “Unlike our parents, we’ve got an extra 10 years of working and living,” she said. “Nothing is broken at home, but we’re done with the suburbs.”
她补充道，女儿在新泽西州卑尔根县(Bergen County)的小伙伴们，大多去了教会学校和公立学校。维斯先生就职于家族企业；维斯太太曾是一位筹资人，现在是室内设计师。“和我们的父辈不一样的是，我们的工作和生活都比他们多出了十年，”她说，“家乡也没什么不好的，但是我们已经受够了郊区。”
So the Weisses, both 50, began renting in various towns in the area as all three of their children ended up at Hotchkiss, and Mr. Weiss commuted to New Jersey. “It’s been a challenge, but we love it here,” Ms. Weiss said. “I couldn’t have asked for a better way to bring up our kids. We got to see all their games. We weren’t so much chasing them so much as we were fortunate they had chosen that place. I only saw my son in the hallways once, and he was like, ‘Mom, what the heck?’ "
因此，现年50岁的维斯夫妇开始在本地区的各个城镇租房，他们的三个孩子最终都去了霍奇基斯。维斯先生每天去新泽西上班。“这是个挑战，但我们很喜欢这里的生活，”维斯太太说，“能够以这种方式见证孩子们的成长，我已别无所求了。他们的所有比赛我们都没有错过。我们并不怎么绕着他们转，因为幸运的是，这所学校是他们自己选的。我只在走廊上见过儿子一次，他当时的反应就像是，‘妈，你怎么跑这儿来了？’”
•
Last week, Kristine Mosheim, 47, was shopping for throw pillows at the Hammertown Barn in Pine Plains, N.Y., to spruce up her new rental, a gardener’s cottage on the old Flagler estate in Millbrook that rents for $2,800 from Labor Day through Memorial Day. Ms. Mosheim’s daughter, Megan, is a sophomore at the Millbrook School and the family lives full-time in Miami.
上周，现年47岁的克里斯汀·莫斯海姆(Kristine Mosheim)在纽约州派恩普莱恩斯(Pine Plains)的Hammertown Barn家具店选购靠枕，装饰新租的房子。这座园丁小屋位于米尔布鲁克(Millveook)的弗莱格勒(Flagler)旧居，房租2800美元（约合人民币1.7万元），租期从劳动节（9月的第一个星期一——译注）到阵亡将士纪念日（Memorial Day，5月的最后一个星期一——译注）。克里斯汀的女儿梅根(Megan)在米尔布鲁克学校(Millbrook School)上二年级。而一家人定居在迈阿密。
“Last year I felt like I was commuting so much and still missing out,” said Ms. Mosheim, whose son, now in college, remained at the same day school from kindergarten through 12th grade, a place where she knew every teacher, every parent. “Megan is super-independent and fine with the adjustment of boarding school. It was just us, as parents. She’s our youngest child. She’s a dancer and plays soccer. Last year, she would talk about friends, performances. What was I going to do, fly up?
“去年，我感觉自己在两地之间跑得太勤了，但还是会错过女儿成长过程中的重要时刻，”克里斯汀说，她的儿子现在已上大学，以前从幼儿园到12年级，一直上的是同一个走读学校，她认识那个学校的所有老师和家长。“梅根超级独立，很适应寄宿学校的生活。反倒是我们做父母的不适应。她是我们最小的孩子，喜欢跳舞、踢足球。去年，她经常跟我们聊她的朋友，聊她的表演。我能做什么？飞过去吗？”
“When we posed the idea of a school rental, she fought us tooth and nail. ‘I don’t need you up here.’ Now she is planning her first weekend home with friends, and even texted me the other day to bring her snacks. I think she likes that I am a little bit at her beck and call.”
“我们提出要在学校附近租房子的时候，她很抗拒，说‘我不需要你们在这儿。’而现在，她正打算带朋友们来家里过第一个周末，前几天甚至还发短信要我帮她带零食。我觉得我有点类似于随叫随到的感觉，她喜欢这样。”
Now her husband, Bob Mosheim, who has a scrap-metal business in Florida, is looking to relocate to Hartford, she added. “So we are looking for a new adventure, putting our toes in a slow way and maybe using Megan as an excuse.”
克里斯汀还说，她的丈夫鲍勃·莫斯海姆在佛罗里达经营废金属业务，现在正准备搬到哈特福德(Hartford)。“所以说，我们正在寻求新的历险，并且慢慢付诸行动。可能我们把照顾梅根当成了借口。”
Up in Deerfield, Mass., one New York City family bought a house on Memorial Street to use during the years that three of their four children attended Deerfield Academy, and then sold it directly to another out-of-town family with children at the school. But Elizabeth Franklin, founder of the Franklin Report, the online guide to home services, still has the lease on a house on Old Main Street that she signed four years ago, when her youngest daughter was starting her sophomore year there. (Ms. Franklin’s husband, who works on Wall Street, requested anonymity for himself and their two daughters.)
而在马萨诸塞州迪尔菲尔德，来自纽约市的一家人在纪念街(Memorial Street)买了套房子，因为家里的四个孩子当中有三个去了迪尔菲尔德学院(Deerfield Academy)。他们毕业后，这户人家直接将房子卖给了另一户陪读家庭。不过，住房服务指南网站《富兰克林报道》(Franklin Report)的创始人伊丽莎白·富兰克林(Elizabeth Franklin)依然在租住自己四年前租下的那套老主街(Old Main Street)的房子。当年租房是因为小女儿在迪尔菲尔德学院读二年级（富兰克林的丈夫在华尔街工作，他要求记者不要透露他和两个女儿的姓名）。
“The same year our oldest daughter went to Dartmouth, our youngest decided to go to Deerfield,” Ms. Franklin said. “So we were empty-nested in one fell swoop. The center of gravity shifted north.”
“大女儿去达特茅斯(Dartmouth)的同一年，小女儿决定去迪尔菲尔德，”富兰克林说，“于是我们一下子就倾巢而出，家庭重心开始往北转移。”
Also, the younger daughter was a competitive squash player. To keep the ranking, she had to play tournaments outside the school realm, and Ms. Franklin did the ferrying. Booking one of the two dog-friendly rooms at the Deerfield Inn (Ms. Franklin has a Westie named Scout) can require months of advance planning, so renting made sense, particularly because her job allows her to work from anywhere.
此外，小女儿还是个很有实力的壁球选手。为了保持名次，她必须参加校外的锦标赛。富兰克林就负责接送。迪尔菲尔德酒店(Deerfield Inn)只有两间客房允许入住者带宠物狗（富兰克林有一只西高地白梗叫“斯考特”[Scout]），订房可能需要提前几个月做打算，因此租房是明智的选择。况且她的工作性质决定了她可以在任何地方工作。
“I’d go up for a few days, driving at night to beat the traffic,” she said. “My daughter and I struck a wonderful balance. She could drop by after sit-down dinners for an hour or two to do her homework in a quiet setting. She wouldn’t spend the night or the weekend to participate in all that is Deerfield. Deerfield set all the rules, and I had the luxury of being able to enjoy my daughter without being the disciplinarian.”
“我会去那里待上几天，趁晚上不拥堵的时候开车，”她说，“女儿跟我保持了很好的平衡。吃完饭后，她会过来坐一、两个小时，在安静的环境下写作业。她不会把晚上或周末的时间，过得和在学校里一样。迪尔菲尔德的校规很多，而我则可以享受跟女儿相处的时光，无需严格约束她。”
•
What of the boarding schools? How are they negotiating the perhaps too-present parents?
寄宿学校的管理方是什么态度呢？对于一些可能过于关爱孩子的父母，他们是如何应对的呢？
One boarding school administrator spoke candidly off the record but declined to be identified. “Some of them are rarely seen,” he said of the handful of parents he has noticed putting down temporary roots in the school’s town. “And it seems like a curious convenience for when they visit. Occasionally there is a family that spends a lot of time on campus, and I think that can really hamper a student’s experience.”
一名寄宿学校管理者在非正式场合坦率地谈到了这个问题，但不愿透露姓名。“有些家长不怎么出现，”他说，他称自己注意到了有一小群家长已经临时扎根在学校所在的城镇，“这似乎很方便他们来学校打听孩子的事情。偶尔有些家长会在学校里待很长时间，我觉得这真的会阻碍孩子的成长。”
Rubén Gaztambide-Fernández is an assistant professor in the department of curriculum, teaching and learning at the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education at the University of Toronto. For his 2009 book, “The Best of the Best: Becoming Elite at an American Boarding School,” he spent two years interviewing students, but he said he didn’t start hearing about the practice of parents living near these campuses until after he had done his fieldwork. But he had a hunch that it might be a beneficial scenario.
鲁文·加斯坦比德·费尔南德斯(Rubén Gaztambide-Fernández)是多伦多大学安大略教育研究学院(Ontario Institute for Studies)课程与教学部的助理教授。2009年，他推出了一本著作——《顶尖中的顶尖：成为美国寄宿学校中的精英》(The Best of the Best: Becoming Elite at an American Boarding School)。为撰写这本书，他花了两年的时间走访学生。不过他说，他是完成实地调查之后，才听说家长陪读的事情的。但是他有预感，认为这样做是有好处的。
“Day students struggled to connect socially at these schools, because so much there happens at night,” Mr. Gaztambide-Fernández said. “And yet the day students had much healthier lives” — less anxiety, for instance, than the boarders. “So parents could potentially be giving them the best of both worlds by doing this. A place to escape and disconnect. The larger parenting trend is that parents are trying to become increasingly involved in the schooling of their children. There is increased anxiety around school success to insure economic success later. Parents are highly invested in individualized attention on their kids, and they don’t trust the schools to do that. So one possibility that could be driving the trend is their wanting to have more of an impact.”
“走读生在这些学校很难跟同学们打成一片，因为有很多社交活动是在晚上举办的，”加斯坦比德·费尔南德斯说，“不过走读生的生活要健康许多，”——比方说，他们没有寄宿生那么焦虑。“因此，家长陪读或许可以把走读和寄宿的优点结合起来。可以给学生提供一个避风港、一个脱离社交舞台的地方。现在的育儿大趋势是，家长对孩子的学校教育介入得越来越深。他们对孩子的因材施教投资很大，而他们在这个问题上并不信任学校。因此，造成这一趋势的一大可能原因是，家长想要施加更大的影响。”
For their part, administrators at Hotchkiss said they haven’t noticed a major shift on campus. “We are aware of only a handful of parents who have rented locally in recent years,” said Hellen Hom-Diamond, chief communications officer at the school.
对此，霍奇基斯的校方表示，他们并没有注意到校园文化发生了重大变化。“我们只知道有一小部分家长近年来在学校附近租房。”霍奇基斯学校的首席媒体官海伦·霍姆-戴蒙德(Hellen Hom-Diamond)说。
The real sea change in the culture of boarding schools, perhaps, is not that some parents are putting down base camps in their towns. It’s the relentless connectivity of modern life. In decades past, children waited in line for the pay phone on Saturday afternoons to call their parents. Now they are texting constantly.
或许寄宿学校校园文化的重大变化并不取决于一些父母在学校附近安营扎寨，而在于现代生活畅通无阻的交流方式。在几十年前，孩子们到了周六下午会在付费电话前排成长队，等着给父母打电话。而现在，他们随时都可以发短信了。
“Parents are more involved than they were in the past,” said David Thiel, director of communications at Deerfield. “That doesn’t come from parents moving here. It comes from technology. If a student takes a test, they’re going to be texting their parents, and their parents are texting right back. The permeability of campus is a new reality for us.”
“如今，家长对孩子的生活比过去介入得更深，”迪尔菲尔德学校的媒体总监戴维·泰尔(David Thiel)说，“这并不是因为家长到这里来陪读，而是技术的发展使然。如果学生要参加考试，他们会发短信告诉父母，父母会马上回复短信。校园的可渗透性对我们来说是一个全新的现实。”