It surely must be the world’s most expensive delivery room.
这肯定是世界上最贵的产房。
The first baby born at the new World Trade Center was delivered at 2:36 a.m. on Tuesday on a PATH concourse inside the $3.9 billion transportation hub designed by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.
周二凌晨2点36分，新世界贸易中心(World Trade Center )迎来了第一个在这里出生的婴儿，出生地点是西班牙建筑师圣地亚哥·卡拉特拉瓦(Santiago Calatrava)设计的，造价39亿美元的交通枢纽内的纽新捷运车站。
The mother, Marwa Abdrabo, was in the station with her husband and 2-year-old son. They were headed to a hospital after she had started having contractions. But it became clear to Ms. Abdrabo that the baby was not going to wait for them to reach their destination. It was not immediately clear where the family was coming from or to which hospital they were headed.
婴儿的母亲马尔瓦·阿布德拉波(Marwa Abdrabo)当时与丈夫及两岁的儿子在车站内。他们在她出现宫缩后赶往医院。但阿布德拉波越来越明显地感觉到，婴儿不愿等到他们到达目的地再出生。目前尚不清楚，这家人来自哪里，以及他们要去往哪家医院。
When three Port Authority police officers reached her, “she felt the baby coming and the officers prepared the area and aided for a possible birth,” according to a Port Authority statement. One officer, Brian McGraw, 34, evaluated Ms. Abdrabo and determined that the baby was on the way. The child was delivered a couple of minutes later.
港务局发表声明称，当三名港务局警察到达她所在的地方时，“她感觉婴儿就要出来了，警察准备场地，为可能进行的分娩提供帮助。”34岁的警官布莱恩·麦格劳(Brian McGraw)评估了她的情况，断定婴儿马上就要出生了。婴儿在几分钟后出生。
Ms. Abdrabo and her newborn daughter, who was named Asenat, were transported by ambulance to NewYork-Presbyterian/Lower Manhattan Hospital. Joe Pentangelo, a spokesman for the Port Authority Police Department, said the baby weighed 6 pounds, 14 ounces, and was healthy and in stable condition.
阿布德拉波和刚出生的女儿阿塞纳特(Asenat)被救护车送往纽约长老会曼哈顿下城医院(NewYork-Presbyterian/Lower Manhattan Hospital)。港务局警务处(Port Authority Police Department)发言人乔·彭特格罗(Joe Pentangelo)表示，婴儿重6磅（约合2.7公斤），非常健康，情况稳定。
Mr. Pentangelo added that Officer McGraw took charge at the scene because of his training as an emergency medical technician. Officer McGraw worked as an emergency technician in Jersey City before becoming a police officer just over a year ago.
彭特格罗还表示，麦格劳警官在现场负责，因为他接受过急救医师培训。麦格劳警官一年之前才成为一名警察，之前是泽西城的一名急救人员。
“I guess a few of the guys looked to me to get in there and handle the situation,” Officer McGraw said. “I’ll never forget this day.’’
“我觉得有些人希望我到场应对，”麦格劳警官说。“我永远不会忘记这一天。”
Officer McGraw said delivering a baby at the station would have been a lot more difficult if it had happened at an hour when the station is busier.
麦格劳表示，如果事情发生在车站比较繁忙的时候，接生婴儿会更难。
“Luckily, it was 2:30 in the morning and when a whole lot of people weren’t there,” he said.
他说，“幸运的是，那会儿是凌晨2点半，没有很多人。”