The thalidomide disaster of the early 1960s left thousands of babies with deformed limbs because their mothers innocently took a sleeping pill thought to be safe during pregnancy,
20世纪60年代初发生的沙利度胺(thalidomide)惨剧导致上万名婴儿出生时出现肢体畸形，因为她们的妈妈在怀孕期间无辜地服用了这种原以为安全的安眠药。
In its well-publicized wake, countless pregnant women avoided all medications, fearing that any drug they took could jeopardize their babies’ development.
在消息广泛传播后，数不胜数的孕妇开始避免服用任何药物，担心她们吃下去的药可能会影响宝宝的发育。
I was terrified in December 1968 when, during the first weeks of my pregnancy, I developed double pneumonia and was treated with antibiotics and codeine. Before swallowing a single dose, I called my obstetrician, who told me to take what was prescribed, “reassuring” me that if I died of pneumonia I wouldn’t have a baby at all.
1968年12月那会儿，我也在担惊受怕，在我刚刚怀孕几周时得了双肺肺炎，需要使用抗生素和可待因治疗。在服药前，我给产科大夫打电话咨询，而对方告诉我，医生开了什么药我都得照吃不误，跟我再三保证说，假如我因为肺炎病死，宝宝也不可能平安出生。
In the decades that followed, pregnancy-related hazards were linked to many medicinal substances: prescription and over-the-counter drugs and herbal remedies, as well as abused drugs and even some vitamins.
在此后的这几十年里，与怀孕相关的危险总是和多种药物联系在一起：从处方药到非处方药和草药，再到滥用药品甚至某些维生素。
Now, however, the latest findings about drug use during pregnancy have ignited new concerns among experts who monitor the effects of medications on the developing fetus and pregnancy itself.
而今，面对关于孕期使用药物的最新发现，那些监测药物对胎儿发育和孕程影响的专家们又有了新的忧虑。
During the last 30 years, use of prescription drugs during the first trimester of pregnancy, when fetal organs are forming, has grown by more than 60 percent.
在过去30年来，在孕早期（指怀孕前3个月——编注），也就是胎儿器官开始成形的这个阶段，孕妇服用处方药的比例上升了超过60%。
About 90 percent of pregnant women take at least one medication, and 70 percent take at least one prescription drug, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
根据美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)数据，约有90%的孕妇服用过至少一种药物，有70%孕妇服用过至少一种处方药。
Since the late 1970s, the proportion of pregnant women taking four or more medications has more than doubled.
自从20世纪70年代末，服用四种以上药物的孕妇比例翻了一倍多。
Nearly one woman in 10 takes an herbal remedy during the first trimester.
每10个妇女中，就有近1个在孕早期服用过草药。
A growing number of pregnant women, naïvely assuming safety, self-medicate with over-the-counter drugs that were once sold only by prescription.
而且有越来越多的孕妇天真地自行服用非处方药，认为这对安全无虞，而这些非处方药此前需要处方才能购买。
While many commonly taken medications are considered safe for unborn babies, the Food and Drug Administration estimates that 10 percent or more of birth defects result from medications taken during pregnancy. “We seem to have forgotten as a society that drugs pose risks,” Dr. Allen A. Mitchell, professor of epidemiology and pediatrics at Boston University Schools of Public Health and Medicine, said in an interview. “Many over-the-counter drugs were grandfathered in with no studies of their possible effects during pregnancy.”
尽管医学界认为很多常用药对胎儿是安全的，但美国食品药品管理局(the Food and Drug Administration)估计，有10%甚至更高比例的出生缺陷是母亲在怀孕时服用了药物的结果。“我们整个社会似乎都忘了‘是药三分毒’的道理，”在采访中，波士顿大学(Boston University)公共卫生医学院流行病学及儿科学教授阿伦·A·米切尔(Allen A. Mitchell)这样说。“有大量非处方药虽经批准，但并未进行有关对孕妇潜在影响的研究。”
Medical progress has contributed to the rising use of medications during pregnancy, Dr. Mitchell said. Various conditions, like depression, are now recognized as diseases that warrant treatment; drugs have been developed to treat conditions for which no treatment was previously available, and some conditions, like Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, have become more prevalent.
米切尔医生说，在孕妇使用药物比例渐增的过程中，医学的发展也起到了推波助澜的作用。像抑郁症这样的各种病症，现在都被当作是需要予以治疗的疾病；一些以往没有对症疗法的病症，现在有了相应的药物，而且一些疾病，比如II型糖尿病和高血压，现在更加流行。
Misled by the Web
网络的误导
Now a new concern has surfaced: Bypassing their doctors, more and more women are using the Internet to determine whether the medication they are taking or are about to take is safe for an unborn baby.
现在涌现出了一个新的问题：越来越多的女性绕过了医生，转而通过互联网上的咨讯来判断她们正在或准备服用的药物是否对胎儿有害。
A study, published online last month in Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety, of so-called “safe lists for medications in pregnancy” found at 25 Web sites revealed glaring inconsistencies and sometimes false reassurances or alarms based on “inadequate evidence.”
上月发表在《药物流行病学和药品安全》（Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety）网络版的一篇研究调查了25个网站公布的所谓“孕期安全用药列表”，结果发现这些列表的内容非常不统一，而且时常基于“不充分的证据”，做出不准确的保证或警告。
The report was prepared by Cheryl S. Broussard of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention with co-authors from Emory, Georgia State University, the University of British Columbia and the Food and Drug Administration.
这份报告的作者是美国疾控中心的谢莉尔·S·布罗萨德(Cheryl S. Broussard)，几名合作者则分别来自埃默里大学(Emory)、乔治亚州立大学(Georgia State University)、英属哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)和疾控中心。
“Among medications approved for use in the U.S.A. from 2000 to 2010, over 79% had no published human data on which to assess teratogenic risk (potential to cause birth defects), and 98% had insufficient published data to characterize such risk,” the authors wrote.
作者在文中写道：“在自2000年到2010年美国批准使用的药物中，有超过79%的药物未公布有关致畸风险（导致出生缺陷的潜在危险）的人类试验数据，有98%的药物在总结该类风险时公布数据不充分。”
But that did not stop the 25 Web sites from characterizing 245 medications as “safe” for use by pregnant women, which “might encourage use of medications during pregnancy even when they are not necessary,” the authors suggested.
而这并不能阻止上述25家网站将245种药物归为孕妇可“安全”使用范畴，研究作者认为，这“可能会鼓励孕妇在怀孕过程中使用原本可以避免的药物。”
Furthermore, the information found online was sometimes contradictory. “Twenty-two of the products listed as safe by one or more sites were stated not to be safe by one or more of the other sites,” the study found.
此外，网络上的信息有时是矛盾的。研究发现“有22种被一家或多家网站列为安全级别的药物，被一家或多家其他网站视为不安全的药物。”
The question of timing was often ignored. A drug that could interfere with fetal organ development might be safe to take later in pregnancy. Or one (for example, ibuprofen) that is safe early in pregnancy could become a hazard later if it raises the risk of excessive bleeding or premature delivery.
网络信息往往会忽视用药时机。某种可能会影响胎儿器官发育的药物，在孕晚期服用或许就是安全的。也可能反之，某种在孕早期安全的药物（比如布洛芬）在孕晚期有可能有害，因为它可能会导致大出血或早产。
Fewer than half the sites advised taking medication only when necessary, and only 13 sites encouraged pregnant women to consult their doctors before stopping or starting a medication.
只有不到半数网站建议只在必需时服药，仅有13个网站提醒孕妇在停服或开始服用一种药物前，先咨询医生。
Doctors, too, are often poorly informed about pregnancy-related hazards of various medications, the authors noted. One woman I know was advised to wean off an antidepressant before she became pregnant, but another was told to continue taking the same drug throughout her pregnancy.
该研究作者注意到，医生往往同样对各种药物对怀孕产生的危害了解有限。我认识的一位女士说，她的一个医生建议她在怀孕前停用一种抗抑郁药，而另一位医生却告诉她，这种药在整个孕期都可以继续服用。
“In many instances the best bet is for mom to stay on her medication,” said Dr. Siobhan M. Dolan, an obstetrician and geneticist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine. She said that if a woman is depressed during pregnancy, her risk of postpartum depression is greater and she may have difficulty bonding with her baby.
“在很多时候，对准妈妈来说最好的选择就是继续服药，”爱因斯坦医学院(Albert Einstein College of Medicine)的妇产科医生、基因家学希奥布翰·M·多兰(Siobahn M. Dolan)医生说。她说如果有女性在怀孕期间抑郁，出现产后抑郁的危险性就会更大，而且可能难以与孩子建立情感上的联系。
Dr. Dolan, who is author, with Alice Lesch Kelly, of the March of Dimes’ newest book, “Healthy Mom Healthy Baby,” emphasized the importance of weighing benefits and risks in deciding whether to take medication during pregnancy and which drugs to take.
多兰医生和爱丽丝·莱希·凯莉(Alice Lesch Kelly)合著有畸形儿基金会(March of Dimes)的新书《健康妈妈健康宝贝》(Healthy Mom Healthy Baby)，她强调说在怀孕期间决定是否服药以及服哪种药物时，最重要的是要做到权衡利弊。
“In anticipation of pregnancy, a woman taking more than one drug to treat her condition should try to get down to a single agent,” Dr. Dolan said in an interview. “Of the various medications available to treat a condition, is there a best choice — one least likely to cause a problem for either the baby or the mother?”
在一次采访中，多兰医生说：“在准备迎接新生命时，原本要服用不止一种药物治病的女性应该尽量减药，把药减到一种。有各种药可用于治疗一种病症，在这当中是否存在一个最佳选择——最不可能导致宝宝或妈妈身体出现问题？”
She cautioned against sharing medications prescribed for someone else and assuming that a remedy labeled “natural” or “herbal” is safe. Virtually none have been tested for safety in pregnancy.
她警告孕妇不能人云亦云，别人吃什么药自己也跟着吃，也不能想当然地认为贴上“天然”或“草本”标签的药物就必然是安全的。事实上没有哪种药物做过试验证明对孕妇绝对安全。
Among medications a woman should be certain to avoid, in some cases starting three months before becoming pregnant, are isotretinoin (Accutane and others) for acne; valproic acid for seizure disorders; lithium for bipolar disorder; tetracycline for infections, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor antagonists for hypertension, Dr. Dolan said.
多兰介绍说，有些药物女性需要在怀孕三个月前就避免服用，包括治疗痤疮的异维A酸（包括同维甲维[Accutane]t 其他药）；治疗癫痫的丙戊酸；治疗双相情感障碍的锂盐；治疗感染的四环素，以及治疗高血压的血管紧张素转换酶抑制剂和血管紧张素。
“Many medications that are not recommended during pregnancy can be replaced with low-risk alternatives,” she wrote.
“很多不推荐在孕期使用的药物，都能找到危险性较小的替代品，”她写道。
Dr. Broussard, who did the “safe lists” study, said in an interview, “We’ve heard about women seeing medications on these lists and deciding on their own that it’s O.K. to take them. “Women who are pregnant or even thinking about getting pregnant should talk directly to their doctors before taking anything. They should be sure they’re taking only what’s necessary for their health condition.”
进行了“安全用药列表”研究的布罗萨德医生在采访中说，“我们听说过有女性看到了这些列表上的药物，然后自行决定吃上面的药没有问题。孕妇或打算怀孕的妇女在吃任何药前，都应直接咨询她们医生的意见。她们应确保只服用对自己的健康状况必要的药物。”
A reliable online resource for both women and their doctors, Dr. Mitchell said, are fact sheets prepared by OTIS, the Organization of Teratology Information Specialists, which are continually updated as new facts become available: http://www.otispregnancy.org.
米切尔医生介绍说，网上有一个可供孕妇和其医生查阅的可靠资源，那是由畸形胎信息专家组织(OTIS)提供的专题介绍，该列表会依据新发现的研究结果予以不断更新：http://www.otispregnancy.org。