Between babymoons and business trips, more and more women are traveling during their pregnancies.
除了喜月旅行和日常出差，越来越多女性开始在孕期旅行。
At least that’s the anecdotal evidence that Jan Rydfors, an obstetrician-gynecologist and a co-founder of the app Pregnancy Companion, has gathered from his patients. Not the most scientific survey, he would be the first to admit, but nevertheless telling. “I’ve done this over 20 years,” Dr. Rydfors said, “and I do think women feel much more that being pregnant is a healthy state.” He added, “They tend to listen more to their bodies than to dogma, so there’s much more traveling.” (To be done, of course, under the guidance of your doctor.)
至少，这是产科妇科医生让·莱德弗斯(Jan Rydfors)通过对自己病人的观察得出的经验之谈。他是应用程序孕期伴侣(Pregnancy Companion)的联合创办人。他坦承这不是最科学的调查，却是显而易见的现象。“我干这一行20多年了，”莱德弗斯说，“我的确认为女人越来越觉得怀孕是一种健康状态。”他补充说，“她们更愿意倾听自己身体的声音，而不是教条，所以越来越多孕妇开始旅行（当然，要在医生的指导下进行）。”
Recently Dr. Rydfors gave travel tips for pregnant women, some of which came in handy during trips he took with his expectant wife before the birth of their first daughter. Following are edited excerpts of the conversation.
前不久，莱德弗斯给孕妇们提供了一些旅行贴士。当年他和初次怀孕的妻子一起旅行时，其中一些秘诀就发挥了作用。下面的对话经过剪辑和浓缩。
Q. Any precautions women should take before their trips?
问：开始旅行前，孕妇要做哪些准备？
A. Something I recommend to all of my patients: Get a copy of your prenatal chart and a letter from your O.B. clearing you for travel, with your due date. In case there are any medical problems, doctors would have an idea of how the pregnancy has been going. Your hotel or the American Embassy should have a list of doctors that are recommended, and most medical professionals anywhere understand basic English. I’d also recommend getting a flu shot because on a plane you’re around a lot more people, you’re touching a lot of surfaces, you’re more prone to get an infection. Keep in mind it takes two weeks for the flu shot to really start working.
答：我给所有病人提的一个建议是：带上你的产检表以及产科医生的旅行准许函，上面会有你的预产期。万一你的身体出现问题，医生们能从中得知你的怀孕状况。酒店或美国大使馆通常会提供推荐医师名单，不管在哪里，大多数医务人员都懂基础英语。我还建议你打一针流感疫苗，因为在飞机上，你周围有很多人，你会触摸很多东西，所以更易染上感冒。记住：流感疫苗打完两周后才能真正开始发挥作用。
Anything to pack?
问：要带哪些东西？
It’s not a bad idea before you go to ask your doctor for a prescription of azithromycin, an antibiotic for travel diarrhea that’s safe for pregnant women, and an over-the-counter antidiarrheal medication like Imodium to take along with you. With travel diarrhea, it’s more the loss of liquid than the infection that’s worrying. If you become too dehydrated, it can affect amniotic fluid and blood flow to the baby. If you have a lot of diarrhea, pure coconut water — it has a little sugar and a lot of electrolytes — is a great way to rehydrate.
答：出发前让医生给你开一份阿奇霉素的处方是个不错的主意。阿奇霉素是一种治疗旅行腹泻的抗生素，孕妇也可以安全使用。再带一种非处方的止泻药，比如易蒙停(Imodium)。旅行腹泻令人担忧的主要是脱水，而非感染本身。如果你严重脱水，可能会影响胎儿的羊水和血流。如果你严重腹泻，纯椰汁是补水良品，因为它只含一点糖，却含有很多电解质。
My wife had terrible morning sickness, and it did get worse during the travel partly because a lack of sleep makes you a little more nauseous. She was already taking the anti-nausea medication Scopolamine, so she took a little more to max out her dosage. You can ask your O.B. about the Scopolamine patches behind your ear, which are very good and safe to use.
我妻子晨吐严重，旅行时的确又加重了，部分原因是缺乏睡眠让她更易恶心。当时她已经吃了缓解恶心的东莨菪碱，所以她又吃了一点，用到了最大剂量。你可以让产科医生给你开一点贴在耳后东莨菪碱贴，它很有效，也够安全。
Any tips for the plane?
问：坐飞机时要注意什么？
When you’re pregnant, you tend to sweat more, pee more and drink a little less because you’re nauseous. It’s easy to get dehydrated in a plane, especially because it’s very dry. Drink as much as possible. Also, your clotting factors are elevated from the pregnancy hormones; that along with being dehydrated, your blood becomes more viscous, more prone to blood clots. Walk up and down the aisle at least once every hour to make sure blood is circulating. To help with swelling, wear loosefitting shoes and, in the last trimester, maybe some support hose.
答：怀孕期间，容易出汗，小便频繁，因为恶心而不爱喝水，再加上飞机上特别干，你就更容易脱水，所以你要尽量多喝水。另外，孕激素会增加你的凝血因子，再加上脱水，你的血会变得更稠，更易形成血栓，所以至少每隔一小时在过道上走一走，确保血液循环。为了应对肿胀问题，你可以穿上宽松的鞋子，在最后三个月，也可以穿上护腿长筒袜。
What’s the latest you recommend pregnant women to travel?
问：孕期旅行最晚可以到几月？
Term is 37 weeks, so the very, very latest, I’d say, is 36 weeks. A lot of airlines use that cutoff, some earlier, so make sure you double check. If it’s a long flight, I usually recommend 32 to 34 weeks. Toward the end, you swell up so much, and it’s uncomfortable if you’re on a plane.
答：37周后就要分娩了，所以最晚最晚是第36周。很多航空公司以此为截止日期，有些更早，所以你一定要仔细算好。如果是长途飞行，我通常的建议是32至34周。到后期，你的腹部隆起很多，坐飞机也会不舒服。