NEW DELHI — When he released his first music video, the Mumbai-based musician Mihir Joshi understood that it would be reviewed by India’s Central Board of Film Certification for obscene or offensive lyrics. When the board objected to a single word, he quickly agreed to part with it.
新德里——当孟买(Mumbai)的音乐家米希尔·乔希(Mihir Joshi)发行他的第一部音乐视频(music video)时，他明白它需要经过印度中央电影审核委员会(Central Board of Film Certification)针对淫秽或冒犯性语言的审核。当此委员会对视频中的一个词表示异议后，他立即就同意将这个词剔除。
But he was flabbergasted to hear that the word was “Bombay.”
但当他得知这个词是“Bombay（译注——孟买的旧称，今称“Mumbai”）”时，他还是不敢相信自己的耳朵。
“I started laughing, and I said, ‘What are you talking about?’  ” Mr. Joshi, 33, said in an interview.
三十三岁的乔希在一次采访中说道，“我忍俊不禁，心想，‘你们在说些什么？’”。
The music video was broadcast on the MTV Indies cable channel over the weekend with the offending place name replaced with a bleep and blurred in the accompanying subtitle. “I have nothing against the word ‘Mumbai,’  ” he added, a little plaintively. “I’m not calling it ‘Constantinople’ or ‘Atlantis’ or whatever.”
这个音乐视频周末在有线电视频道MTV Indies上播出——那个冒犯性的地名变成了哗哗声，字幕也被盖过。他略带悲伤地补充道，“我并不反对‘Mumbai’这个词，我又没有管它叫‘君士坦丁堡(Constantinople)’或‘亚特兰蒂斯(Atlantis)’之类的”。
He chose “Bombay” in the second line of the song, he said, because he needed a rhyme with “today.” But by doing so, Mr. Joshi stumbled into one of India’s many unresolved tugs of war over history and identity.
他说，他之所以在歌词的第二行选用“Bombay”，是因为需要和“today（今天）”押韵。但是这么却做让乔希卷入了又一起涉及印度历史与身份的争议之中，很多这类争议都还在继续。
Mumbai, a word drawn from the Marathi language, has been the official legal name of Mr. Joshi’s home city since 1995, when the nativist political party in power chose it to replace the Anglicized name Bombay, used since colonial times.
自殖民时代起直至1995年，“Bombay”都是乔希所居住城市的官方法定名称。但是到了1995年，掌权的本土主义政党用“Mumbai”替代了“Bombay”这个英语化的名字。Mumbai这个词来源于马拉地语(Marathi)。
Not everyone adopted the new name, though. Some kept using Bombay out of long habit or institutional inertia — the city’s stock exchange and its high court still bear the name, for example. Others stuck with Bombay as a political statement, rejecting what they considered xenophobic politics behind the change.
但并不是每一个人都习惯了新的名字。出于旧习或机构性的惯性——比如孟买的股票交易所和最高法院都还保有旧名——一些人还是在使用老名字。其他人坚持使用“Bombay”的原因是他们认为孟买改名背后存在排外主义倾向，而他们反对这种倾向。
Though this divide leads to regular dust-ups on televised talk shows, Mr. Joshi’s case was the first in recent memory in which an artist has been called out for using Bombay.
尽管这个分歧时不时会成为脱口秀节目上的争议焦点，但是近期，乔希是第一位由于使用Bombay而被单拎出来的艺术家。
“If the name of this city has been changed, it’s only fair that we adhere to the new name,” said Meenal Baghel, editor of The Mumbai Mirror, a daily newspaper. “But should it have been bleeped as if it is a four-letter word? I think that’s ridiculous.”
日报《孟买镜报》(Mumbai Mirror)的编辑米那尔·巴格尔(Meenal Baghel)说道，“如果这座城市已经改名，我们遵循新标准也没什么不好的。但它应该被哗哗声屏蔽掉吗，像那些低俗词汇一样？这也太荒唐了。”
The film censor’s decision drew considerable criticism and mockery on Monday, but the board’s top official, Pahlaj Nihalani, said he stood by the decision, which was made by his predecessor. (Mr. Nihalani became the board’s chairman in January.)
电影审查机构的决定引来了诸多批评和嘲笑，但是此委员会的高级官员帕拉吉·尼哈拉尼(Pahlaj Nihalani)说他无意更改此决定。此决定是由他的前任作出的。（尼哈拉尼在1月成为了此委员会的主席。）
“Given the past controversy over the use of Bombay in films, this was avoidable,” Mr. Nihalani told The Hindu, a daily newspaper. “There are some elements who make deliberate attempts to create controversy by using Bombay, keeping in mind future prospects.”
尼哈拉尼向日报《印度教徒报》(The Hindu)表示，“鉴于过去关于在电影中使用Bombay所产生的争议，这首歌里完全可以不使用这个名字。社会上有一些人想通过故意使用Bombay来挑起争议，以达成一些目的。”
Mr. Joshi, for his part, was adjusting to his new status as a test case. He uses both names interchangeably — his album is called “Mumbai Blues” — and describes himself as so apolitical that he reads only the sports and entertainment sections of the newspaper. The song in question, “Sorry,” was written as an imagined lament of a father to his daughter, written on the anniversary of a brutal gang rape in New Delhi.
乔希正在适应他作为争议焦点的新地位。在他的专辑“Mumbai Blues（译注——意为“孟买蓝调”）”中，他两个名字都用；他还说他对政治是如此地不关心，以至于他只读报纸上的运动和娱乐版块。“对不起(Sorry)”这首处于争议之中的歌，是假想倾诉一位父亲对女儿的遭遇所表达的悲痛之情。作词时间正好是新德里一宗残忍轮奸案的周年纪念日。