MUMBAI, India — Fifteen years after vultures disappeared from Mumbai’s skies, the Parsi community here intends to build two aviaries at one of its most sacred sites so that the giant scavengers can once again devour human corpses.
印度孟买——就在秃鹫从孟买的天空消失了15年之后，当地的帕西族社区想要在其中一处最神圣的教址建造两座秃鹫养殖场，以便于让这种巨型食腐动物能够再次吞食人类的尸体。
Construction is scheduled to begin as soon as April, said Dinshaw Rus Mehta, chairman of the Bombay Parsi Punchayet. If all goes as planned, he said, vultures may again consume the Parsi dead by January 2014.
孟买帕西人居住区委员会(Bombay Parsi Punchayet)主席丁肖·鲁斯·梅赫塔(Dinshaw Rus Mehta)说，根据计划，养殖场最快会在明年4月开工。他说，如果一切按计划进行，秃鹫可能会在2014年1月再次开始吃帕西人的尸体。
“Without the vultures, more and more Parsis are choosing to be cremated,” Mr. Mehta said. “I have to bring back the vultures so the system is working again, especially during the monsoon.”
梅赫塔说，“没有秃鹫，越来越多的帕西人开始选择火葬。我必须把秃鹫带回来，让这套程序再次运转起来，尤其是在季风季节。”
The plan is the result of six years of negotiations between Parsi leaders and the Indian government to revive a centuries-old practice that seeks to protect the ancient elements — air, earth, fire and water — from being polluted by either burial or cremation. And along the way, both sides hope the effort will contribute to the revival of two species of vulture that are nearing extinction. The government would provide the initial population of birds.
这一计划是六年谈判的结果。帕西族领导人和印度政府就复兴一项历史悠久的习俗进行了讨论，该习俗旨在保护古老的元素，空气、泥土、火和水，不被土葬或火葬污染。同时，双方也希望这一努力将有助于拯救两种濒临灭绝的秃鹫。政府将提供第一批种鸟。
The cost of building the aviaries and maintaining the vultures is estimated at $5 million spread over 15 years, much less expensive than it would have been without the ready supply of food.
养殖场的修建和之后15年的维护成本预计在500万美元（约合3146万元人民币），如果没有现成食物提供，成本将远不止这些。
“Most vulture aviaries have to spend huge sums to buy meat, but for us that’s free because the vultures will be feeding on human bodies — on us,” Mr. Mehta said.
梅赫塔说，“大多数秃鹫养殖场不得不花大价钱购买肉类，不过，对我们而言，食物是免费的，因为我们会给秃鹫喂人的尸体，也就是我们的尸体。”
Like the vultures on which they once relied, Parsis are disappearing. Their religion, Zoroastrianism, once dominated Iran but was largely displaced by Islam. In the 10th century, a large group of Zoroastrians fled persecution in Iran and settled in India. Fewer than 70,000 remain, most of them concentrated in Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay, where they collectively own prime real estate that was purchased centuries ago.
和他们一度依赖的秃鹫一样，帕西人也在消失。他们的宗教，琐罗亚斯德教曾是波斯（现为伊朗）国教，但后来基本上被伊斯兰教取代。十世纪，一大批琐罗亚斯德教徒为了躲避迫害而逃离波斯国，在印度定居下来。现在还有不到7万帕西人，大部分集中在孟买（Mumbai，以前称为Bombay），他们共同持有几个世纪以前购买的一些黄金地段的房产项目。
Among the most valuable of these holdings are 54 acres of trees and winding pathways on Malabar Hill, one of Mumbai’s most exclusive neighborhoods. Tucked into these acres are three Towers of Silence where Parsis have for centuries disposed of their dead.
其中最值钱的财产包括包括马巴拉山上54英亩树林、以及蜿蜒其间的小道，这里是孟买最独一无二的街区之一。林间掩映着三座寂静之塔(Towers of Silence)，几个世纪以来，帕西人就在这里处理逝者的遗体。
The stone towers are open-air auditoriums containing three concentric rings of marble slabs — an outer ring for dead men, middle ring for deceased women and inner ring for dead children. For centuries, bodies left on the slabs were consumed within hours by neighborhood vultures, with the bones left in a central catchment to leach into the soil.
这些石塔是露天建筑，由三层大理石板组成的同心圆结构，外面的一圈为死去的男人专用、中间一圈为死去的女性专用、最里面的一圈专为死去的儿童使用。许多世纪里，留在石板上的尸体几个小时之内就会被附近的秃鹫一扫而光，剩下的骨头放在中心的浅井里，最后渗入泥土。
Modernity has impinged on this ancient practice in many ways. That includes the construction of nearby skyscrapers where non-Parsis could watch the grisly scenes unfold. But by far the greatest threat has been the ecological disaster visited in recent years on vultures.
现代化进程从很多方面影响着这项古老的仪式，包括附近拔地而起的摩天大楼，非帕西人可以在大楼里观看这些所有这些可怕的画面。不过，到目前为止，最大的威胁还是近年秃鹫遭遇的生态灾难。
India once had as many as 400 million vultures, a vast population that thrived because the nation has one of the largest livestock populations in the world but forbids cattle slaughter. When cows died, they were immediately set upon by flocks of vultures that left behind skin for leather merchants and bones for bone collectors. As recently as the 1980s, even the smallest villages often had thousands of vulture residents.
在印度，秃鹫的数量一度曾多达4亿，这个庞大的种群如此兴旺，是因为印度拥有世界上数量数一数二的牛群，但却禁止宰杀。当牛死后，他们立即被成群的秃鹫分食，遗留下牛皮给皮革商，牛骨给拾骨者。直到最近的20世纪80年代，就算印度最小的村庄，也常常拥有数以千计的秃鹫。
But then came diclofenac, a common painkiller widely used in hospitals to lessen the pain of the dying. Marketed under names like Voltaren, it is similar to the medicines found in Advil and Aleve; in 1993 its use in India was approved in cattle. Soon after, vultures began dying in huge numbers because the drug causes them to suffer irreversible kidney failure.
然而，双氯芬酸出现了，这是一种常见的镇痛剂，被医院广泛地用于减轻临危病人的痛苦。它在市场上的商品名是扶他林(Voltaren)，其成分和雅维(Advil)及萘普生(Aleve)的成分一样；1993年，印度批准在牛身上使用这种药。自此之后，秃鹫很快就因这种药品引发不可逆转的肾衰竭而大量死亡。
Diclofenac’s veterinarian use has since been banned, which may finally be having an effect. A recent study found that for the first time since the drug’s introduction, India’s vulture population did not decline over the past year.
此后，双氯芬酸被禁止作为兽医用药，这也许最终能产生一些效果。最近的一项研究发现，自这种药被用于牛身上以来，印度的秃鹫数量去年第一次没有下降。
Still, the numbers for three species have shrunk to only a few thousand, a tiny fraction of their former levels. With so few vultures left, the Parsi community set up mirrors around the Towers of Silence to create something akin to solar ovens to accelerate decomposition. But the mirrors are ineffective during monsoon months. So an increasing number of Parsis are opting for cremation, a practice many Parsi priests believe is an abomination since fire is sacred and corpses unclean.
尽管如此，有三种秃鹫的数量依然缩减到仅有数千只，是之前总量的一小部分。剩下的秃鹫如此之少，于是帕西人在寂静之塔周围安装了镜子，打造了一个类似于太阳能炉的设施，以加速尸体的分解。不过，在季风季节，镜子起不了作用。所以，越来越多的帕西人选择了火葬，后者是帕西族麻葛（帕西族祭司的统称——译注）憎恶的一种殡葬方式，因为火是神圣的，而尸体是不洁的。
Desperate to maintain one of their most important rituals, Parsi leaders have created detailed plans to build the aviaries near the Towers of Silence, each housing 76 vultures. Parsi leaders say they are waiting for formal approval from community members, doctors and priests before beginning construction, approvals they expect to receive over the next several weeks.
这是帕西族最重要的仪式之一，帕西族领袖急于维护它，为此，他们已经拟定了详细的计划，要在寂静之塔附近建造秃鹫养殖场，每个养殖场会养殖76只秃鹫。帕西族领袖说，开工之前，他们依然在等待族人、医生和麻葛正式的批准，他们预计，未来数周内，这项计划就会得到批准。
But Homi B. Dhalla, president of the World Zarathushti Cultural Foundation, has promised to fight the plans. He helped to develop the tower solar collectors and said they were working well. And he is worried that once the government provides vultures for Parsi aviaries, bureaucrats will try to seize the land.
不过，世界琐罗亚斯德教文化基金会(World Zarathushti Cultural Foundation)主席霍米·B·达拉(Homi B. Dhalla)发誓要抵制这些计划。是他帮助开发了寂静之塔使用的太阳能收集器。他说，这些收集器运行良好。他担心，一旦政府为帕西人的养殖场提供秃鹫，官僚们就会试图攫取土地。
“Why endanger our property?” Dr. Dhalla asked. “Who is going to fight the government?”
达拉问道，“为什么要让我们的财产处于危险？谁会去和政府抗争？”
Another concern is whether Parsis can be persuaded to stop using diclofenac. Nearly all of the roughly 800 bodies brought annually to the towers come from two Parsi hospitals, and doctors and family would have to certify that the deceased had not been given diclofenac in the three days before death. There is no simple test to detect the drug, and if vultures in the aviaries die from diclofenac poisoning after eating Parsi corpses the government has promised to end the effort.
另一个担忧是帕西人能否被劝服，停止使用双氯芬酸。每年，几乎所有被带到寂静之塔的约800具尸体都来自两家帕西人的医院，医生和亲属必须证明，逝者离世之前的三天里没有使用过双氯芬酸。没有简易的检测可以发现这些药物，政府已经承诺，如果养殖场的秃鹫在食用帕西人的尸体后死于双氯芬酸中毒，他们将停止养殖秃鹫。
Parsi medical leaders were cautious in their comments about the vulture program. “As a hospital,” said Dr. S. K. Dhingra, superintendent of B. D. Petit Parsee General Hospital, “we cannot tell our patients, ‘You can do this, or you can do that.’ ”
帕西族的医学负责人对评论秃鹫养殖计划态度谨慎。BD珀蒂帕西人综合医院(B. D. Petit Parsee General Hospital)负责人、S·K·丁格拉(S. K. Dhingra)医生说，“作为一家医院，我们不能对病人说，‘你能做这个’或‘你能做那个’。”
Khurshed Dastoor, one of five Parsi high priests, said that he was not sure members would adhere to a diclofenac ban.
帕西族的五位高级麻葛之一胡尔希德·达斯图尔(Khurshed Dastoor)说，他不确定族人会遵从双氯芬酸禁令。
“For 10 years, I have been trying to educate the community to turn off their cellphones before they go inside our most sacred fire temples, and I have failed,” he said. “And now we think the community will give up diclofenac in a couple of months?”
他说，“过去的十年里，我一直试图规劝族人，在进入我们最神圣的拜火庙之前关闭手机，我已经失败了。现在，我们却认为，族人会在几个月之内放弃使用双氯芬酸？”
Other Parsi leaders, however, said they were pushing ahead because of the importance of restoring the tradition.
尽管如此，其他帕西族领袖表示，恢复传统至关重要，他们还在推进禁令的实施。
“We must hope for the best,” Mr. Mehta said.
梅赫塔说，“我们必须要往最好处想。”