DHAKA, Bangladesh — Bangladesh's governing party celebrated its victory in general elections on Monday, dismissing critics who said the vote's legitimacy was undercut by violence, low turnout and the absence of the country's main opposition force from the ballots.
孟加拉国达卡——周一，孟加拉国执政党庆祝自己在大选中获胜，对批评人士的指责置之不理。批评人士称，暴力、低投票率以及该国主要反对派力量的缺席削弱了此次选举的合法性。
The party, the Awami League, won 231 out of the 300 seats in Bangladesh's new parliament, about half of them unopposed. Partial results published by Bangladesh's election commission put the average turnout at 39.8 percent although that figure appeared to have been padded by an influx of pro-government activists, who arrived at polling stations shortly before they closed.
执政党人民联盟(Awami League)赢得了孟加拉国新一届议会300个席位中的231个，其中约一半席位没有竞争对手。孟加拉国选举委员会公布的部分结果显示，此次选举的平均投票率为39.8%，不过，这一数字似乎是亲政府活动人士推高的结果，因为他们在投票站即将关门时涌了进去。
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, receiving journalists in her home on Monday, put the blame on the opposition party, the Bangladesh National Party (BNP), which boycotted the election and carried out a campaign to discourage turnout. “Today, democracy is tainted by the blood of innocent people and soaked by the tears of burned people, who have fallen victim to the violent political program that is hitting the nation's conscience,” Hasina said. She added she had ordered the army to “curb any post-poll terrorism and violence with iron hands.”
周一，孟加拉国总理谢赫·哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)在自己家里接待记者，其间将投票率低归咎于反对派政党孟加拉民族主义党（Bangladesh Nationalist Party，简称BNP）。该党抵制此次选举，并开展了阻挠选民投票的运动。“今天，民主沾染了无辜者的鲜血，浸染了被烧伤者的眼泪，这些人是那场政治暴力运动的受害者，这场运动伤害了我们国家的良心，”哈西娜说。她补充说，已下令军队“用强硬措施打击大选后的一切恐怖主义和暴力行为”。
At least 22 people were killed on Sunday, in some cases when police officers opened fire on opposition activists trying to keep voters away.
至少有22人在周日遇难。有些时候，警察还朝那些试图赶走选民的反对派活动人士开了火。
The government showed a degree of softening by allowing a New York Times reporter to interview the opposition leader, Khaleda Zia, in the house where she has been confined since Dec. 29, when the police prevented her from leaving to attend a protest rally. Zia called Sunday's vote a “farcical election” and said she believed that the real turnout figures were closer to 10 percent.
政府表现出了一定程度的让步，允许一名《纽约时报》记者对反对派领袖卡莉达·齐亚(Khaleda Zia)进行了采访。自12月29日以来，她一直被关在此次接受采访的那座房子里，因为警察不许她出门参加一次抗议集会。齐亚称周日的投票是一场“选举闹剧”，还说她认为真正的投票率应该只有10%左右。
However, she said the BNP leaders were prepared to start negotiations immediately, after the government released party workers who had been arrested in a pre-election crackdown.
不过，她说BNP的领导人已经做好了立即谈判的准备。此前，政府已经释放了在选举前一场镇压运动中逮捕的BNP工作人员。
The United States and Britain each issued critical statements on Monday, noting that the absence of competition cast doubt on the elections' legitimacy. A U.S. State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, urged both sides “to find a way to hold as soon as possible elections that are free, fair, peaceful and credible, reflecting the will of the Bangladeshi people.”
周一，美国和英国分别发布了批评声明，指出由于缺乏竞争，选举的合法性存在疑问。美国国务院发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)敦促双方“找到一种方式，尽快举行自由、公正、和平、可信、能反映孟加拉国人民意愿的选举”。
A popular newspapers, Prothom Alo, printed in Bengali, published the headline “Fake Vote, Disgraceful Election,” and an editorial cartoon showed Hasina jubilantly running across a finish line while her rivals watched from a few feet away, where they were tied to a tree.
颇受欢迎的孟加拉语报纸《曙光日报》(Prothom Alo)刊发了一则题为《虚假投票，可耻选举》(Fake Vote, Disgraceful Election)的头条，以及一幅社论卡通画。画面上，哈西娜正兴高采烈地越过终点线，而她的对手都被绑在几英尺以外的树上，眼睁睁地看着她。