As an apprentice anthropologist, I once had the misfortune of attempting to converse with the Indian critical theorist Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. Professor Spivak, who translated the work of the French philosopher Jacques Derrida and wrote the famous essay “Can the Subaltern Speak?” was visiting Dhaka, Bangladesh, and I went to meet her. After patiently listening while I asked a series of dumb questions about discursive practice, she turned and said, cryptically, “I came for the mangoes.”
作为一名仍在学习过程中的人类学学者，非常不幸，我曾试图与印度批评理论家盖亚特里·查克拉沃蒂·斯皮瓦克(Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak)交谈。斯皮瓦克教授翻译过法国哲学家雅克·德里达(Jacques Derrida)的作品，而且还是著名文章《弱势者能发言吗》(Can the Subaltern Speak)的作者。她当时造访孟加拉国达卡，我去见了她。我问了一连串关于话语实践的愚蠢问题，她耐心地听我说完后，扭过头，神秘地说，“我是为芒果而来的。”
Ah, the mango. It may be a cliché pitfall for the South Asian writer, but for this academic, famous for her impenetrable prose, the mango brought the esoteric down to earth. Ms. Spivak is regarded as one of the great minds of her generation, but in Dhaka, she was, like everyone else, there for the mangoes.
啊，芒果。这么说可能会让她落入南亚作家的窠臼，但是对于这位以深奥文章著称的学者而言，芒果顿时让她的神秘性消失无踪。斯皮瓦克被人视作她那一代最伟大的思想家之一，但是她来达卡的目的与其他所有人一样，为了芒果。
In Bangladesh, the obsession with the mango comes from its evanescence. The fruit’s intense seasonality means that even the more prosaic varieties are available for only a few weeks of the summer. The most prized is the langra: Its floral, slightly sour flavor is more complex than the overly sweet chaunsa or Alphonso mangoes. Aficionados love the langra in part because it is almost impossible to catch at its peak — too green and your tongue will swell and itch; a few hours late and its flesh turns to mush.
在孟加拉国，人们对芒果的痴迷源于它无法长期保存的特质。它具有很强的季节性，连比较常见的品种都只在夏天的几周内才有。其中人们最珍视的品种是兰格拉(langra)，它带有花香, 微酸，比极甜的昌萨(chaunsa)或阿方索(Alphonso)芒果的味道更加复杂。芒果迷们之所以热爱兰格拉，部分原因是人们几乎无法在它处于最佳状态时享用到它——如果太青，你的舌头就会肿胀刺痒；如果晚几个小时，它的果肉就会变得软烂。
But this year, the langra is nowhere to be found. The markets are empty of the sought-after mango.
但在今年，兰格拉已无处可寻。市场上根本见不到这种备受欢迎的芒果。
On the roads that lead into Dhaka, the precious fruit lies rotting by the truckload. The reason: chemical poisoning. The langras are said to be contaminated with formalin, a strong solution of formaldehyde that is sprayed on the fruit in an effort to extend its life. The government responded by setting up checkpoints on the roads to the city.
在通往达卡的路上，这种珍贵的水果一车车地烂在了卡车里。这都是因为化学污染。据称，这些兰格拉芒果受到了福尔马林的污染。福尔马林是一种强效甲醛溶剂，将其喷洒在水果上可以延长水果的保鲜期。为了应对这个问题，政府在通向达卡的道路上设立了检查站。
It isn’t just the mangoes. Earlier this year, the Institute of Public Health found that 47 of 50 food items tested were adulterated. Formalin is used to preserve both fruit and fish. Turmeric has been found tainted with lead. Since June 18, the police have set up mobile formalin-detection units, confiscating thousands of tons of locally produced and imported fruit.
受污染的不仅是芒果。今年早些时候，公共卫生研究所(Institute of Public Health)发现，在50种受测试的食物中有47种都被掺入了其他物质。福尔马林被用来给水果和鱼保鲜。姜黄根粉则受到了铅的污染。从6月18日开始，警方设立了多个移动的福尔马林监测站，没收了数千吨当地生产的和进口的水果。
The fruit industry is up in arms, claiming that the police are using faulty devices and crippling the industry. Last week, the fruit sellers’ association went on strike, and their produce rotted in the warehouses of the port city of Chittagong. In the weeks leading up to the month of Ramadan, the tussle has been fierce, with demonstrations and counter-demonstrations taking place across Dhaka. And the langra has vanished.
水果业内群情激奋，他们说警方使用的仪器有问题，对水果行业造成了巨大破坏。上周，水果商贩协会举行抗议，他们的产品则烂在了港口城市吉大港的仓库里。在斋月之前的数周，双方的争议非常激烈，达卡市频频发生示威与反示威行动。兰格拉则消失无踪。
The practice of spraying fruit with formalin is one problem, but more worrying is that the entire food chain is compromised — the soil itself contaminated by toxins that are almost impossible to eradicate. Bangladesh was born in the shadow of famine, and since independence in 1971, a series of government measures have put increasing pressure on farmers to keep the rice yields increasing every year. This has meant exploiting the land to its limits: intensive farming, extensive irrigation and the unchecked use of groundwater.
给水果喷洒福尔马林的做法是一个问题，但更令人担忧的是整个食物链都受到了损害——土壤也受到了有毒物质的污染，而且这种污染几乎无法彻底清除。孟加拉国诞生于饥荒的阴影之中，自1971年独立以来，政府的一系列措施给农民施加了越来越大的压力，希望每年都能增加粮食产量。于是，土地便遭到了过度使用：集约式农业、广泛的灌溉，以及对地下水的滥用。
A result is that Bangladesh has made great strides in becoming self-sufficient in food, tripling rice yields in 40 years: In 1970, the rice crop was 0.76 tons per acre; in 2012, it was 1.9 tons. The increase is the result of using high-yield, short-duration varieties, which require the greater application of fertilizers and a huge increase in irrigation. In the last 30 years, the use of fertilizers has grown by 400 percent, and pesticides have been widely overused. And as the water table gets lower, the salinity increases and contaminants like arsenic leach into wells that provide drinking water. The land has borne the cost of our need to climb out of famine.
结果，孟加拉国在食物的自给自足方面取得了重大进步，粮食产量在40年内大幅提高：1970年，每英亩土地的稻米产量为0.76吨，2012年则达到了1.9吨。粮食增收是因为使用了高产量、生长周期短的品种，这些品种需要使用更多化肥和大量的灌溉。过去30年间，化肥的使用量增加了400%，滥用杀虫剂的情况也很普遍。随着地下水位降低，盐分增加，砷等污染物渗入了提供饮用水的水井。土地为我们逃离饥荒的需求付出了代价。
Dhaka’s brouhaha over contaminated fruit speaks to a growing chasm between the urban and the rural. This broken, congested city is where we have placed all our hopes for a better Bangladesh. The capital is where you will find the budding start-ups, the English-speaking college graduates, the cellphone users, the social networkers — all the engines of economic growth. And as we become more removed from the traditional modes of food production, the agricultural hinterland is being treated as nothing more than the food source for a hungry city.
达卡在污染水果问题上引发的轩然大波，反映出城市和农村之间日益加深的鸿沟。这座破败、拥挤的城市，寄托着我们改善孟加拉国境遇的全部希望。你在首都能见到崭露头角的创业公司，说英语的大学毕业生，手机玩家，社交网络用户——所有这些经济增长的发动机。我们渐渐远离传统的食品生产模式，对一座饥饿的城市来说，农村腹地无非是一个食物来源。
The great irony here is that Bangladeshis romanticize the rural. The greatest compliment you can pay a Bangladeshi is to say she is “matir manush,” a person of the earth. The country, as the American anthropologist James Ferguson put it, provides “alternative moral images,” a counterpoint to the complexities — the allure, as well as the danger — of rapid urbanization. The rural continues to act as a repository of our fantasies about national identity; it is a favorite subject of every cultural artifact, from poetry to contemporary art. Our touchstone is Rabindranath Tagore, the great bard of the pastoral in Bengali literature of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
这其中最讽刺的地方在于孟加拉人对农村的浪漫想象。说一个孟加拉人是“matir manush”（接地气的人），是对她最大的恭维了。正如美国人类学家詹姆斯·弗格森(James Ferguson)所说，乡村提供了“另一种道德形象”，与诱人却又危险的快速城市化所带来的复杂性形成鲜明对比。我们对国家认同的遐想依然存放在农村；从诗歌到当代艺术，它是所有文艺创作偏爱的题材。我们的标杆是罗宾德拉纳特·泰戈尔(Rabindranath Tagore)，19世纪末、20世纪初孟加拉文学中的伟大田园诗人。