NEW DELHI — A war crimes tribunal in Bangladesh on Sunday sentenced two expatriates — one now living in the United States and the other in Britain — to death by hanging for the murder of 18 people described as prominent intellectuals, during the country’s 1971 war of independence from Pakistan.
新德里——周日，孟加拉国的一个战争罪法庭对两名移居海外的国民——其中一人目前住在美国，另一人住在英国——判处绞刑。这两人被控在1971年孟加拉脱离巴基斯坦的独立战争中谋杀了18名官方所说的著名知识分子，由此获刑。
A verdict released in the capital, Dhaka, said the two men, who were tried in absentia, were guilty of “aiding, abetting, instructing, ordering, encouraging and providing moral support to” the killers of the 18 people, described as university professors, journalists and physicians, who supported the independence movement. The verdict said that the two men “had de facto reasonable material and authority to control” those responsible.
在首都达卡宣布的裁决结果称，这两个遭受缺席审判的人罪名成立，所犯罪行是“援助、煽动、教导、命令、怂恿及在精神上支持”杀死上述18人的凶手。据称，这18人都是支持孟加拉独立运动的大学教授、记者或医师。裁决结果称，这两人“事实上有适当的手段和权威，足以控制”那些有责任的人。
Both defendants fled Bangladesh shortly after it gained independence from Pakistan. One of the men, Chowdhury Mueen Uddin, settled in London, where he became a prominent Muslim leader, serving as a trustee for the charity Muslim Aid and as the director of Muslim Spiritual Care Provision in the National Health Service.
孟加拉从巴基斯坦独立之后不久，两名被告都离开了孟加拉国。名为乔杜里·米恩-乌丁(Chowdhury Mueen-Uddin)的被告在伦敦定居下来，后来还成了著名的穆斯林领导人，在慈善组织穆斯林援助(Muslim Aid)担任理事，还是国家医疗服务体系(National Health Service)穆斯林精神关爱项目(Muslim Spiritual Care Provision)的负责人。
He has said that he rejects “each and every charge leveled against me,” and has refused to return to face trial because he did not expect a fair process.
他曾表示，他否认“对自己的一切指控”，并且拒绝回去受审，因为他认为自己得不到公正的审判。
The second man, Ashrafuzzaman Khan, moved to Pakistan, then to the United States after the war, and lived in New York, where he was active in the Islamic Circle of North America.The so-called intellectual killings took place in 1971, from Dec. 5 to 10, 1971, when it had become all but certain that Bangladesh would win independence from Pakistan. The three-judge tribunal called the killings “elitocide.”
名为阿斯拉富查曼·汗(Ashrafuzzaman Khan)的被告则搬去了巴基斯坦，战争结束后又去了美国，随后住在纽约，活跃于北美的伊斯兰圈子。所谓的杀害知识分子事件发生在1971年的12月5日到10日之间，当时的事态已经十分明朗，孟加拉将从巴基斯坦独立出来。由三名法官组成的法庭称该事件是“杀害精英”的行为。
The verdict said the killings were “a premeditated and secret plan to exterminate the best and most notable intellectuals belonging to different professions.” It added, “The intention was to paralyze the nation.”
裁决称，上述杀害行动出自“一个有预谋的秘密计划，旨在彻底清除各行业最优秀、最知名的知识分子”。裁决称，“其目的是使国家陷入瘫痪。”
Colleagues and relatives of the victims wept on Sunday when the verdict was read.
周日，法庭宣读判决时，受害者的同事及亲属纷纷哭泣。
“I think all of Bangladesh was waiting for this day,” said Anirban, an architecture professor, who was 9 months old when his father, Mostafa, was abducted. Anirban, like his father, uses only one name.
建筑学教授阿尼尔班(Anirban)说，“我认为，孟加拉国的所有人都在等待这一天。”父亲穆斯塔法(Mostafa)被绑架时，阿尼尔班只有九个月大。与父亲一样，阿尼尔班只使用一节名字。
The judges said in their ruling that the deaths were carried out by a “killing squad” associated with the pro-Pakistani Al-Badr militia, and that Mr. Mueen Uddin and Mr. Khan were important leaders in the group.
法官在裁决中表示，杀害行动的执行者是与亲巴基斯坦的巴德尔(Al-Badr )民兵组织有关联的一支“杀戮队”，而米恩-乌丁和阿斯拉富查曼·汗都是该团体的重要领导人。
It also said the killings were “carried out under the control and coordination” of Jamaat-e-Islami, an Islamist opposition party. Jamaat faces a ban from participating in the coming general elections, after the county’s High Court ruled that it was not legally registered. It plans to appeal the decision.
法庭判决称，杀害行动是在伊斯兰反对党伊斯兰大会党(Jamaat-e-Islami)的“控制与协调下实施的”。孟加拉高级法院(High Court)已判定大会党没有进行合法注册，该党由此被禁止参与即将到来的普选。该党计划就这一决定进行申诉。
The war crimes tribunal has shined a spotlight on unresolved tensions from the 1971 war, in which Bangladesh, a largely Muslim country with roughly 160 million people, won independence from Pakistan at the cost of an estimated three million lives. Human Rights Watch has criticized the tribunal, saying it is marred by “a strong judicial bias toward the prosecution.”
该战争罪法庭突显了1971年战争留下的尚未缓解的紧张局势，在这场战争中，孟加拉国以大约300万人的生命为代价赢得独立，脱离了巴基斯坦的控制。孟加拉国大约有1.6亿人口，是一个以穆斯林为主的国家。人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch) 曾批评该法庭，称它已经因“严重偏袒检方”而蒙上污点。
Prosecutors said that Mr. Mueen Uddin and Mr. Khan were both associated with the Al-Badr militia.
检方称，米恩-乌丁和阿斯拉富查曼·汗都与巴德尔民兵组织有关联。