In the honking, congested heart of this overcrowded capital, one glass office tower stands uniquely alone, surrounded by water, accessible by a small bridge. It is a symbol of the power of Bangladesh’s garment industry, the headquarters of the country’s most powerful association of factory owners. It is also illegal.
在孟加拉国过度拥挤的首都达卡，市中心的汽车喇叭声此起彼伏，交通拥堵不堪，一座独一无二的玻璃写字楼孑然伫立在那里。写字楼四面环水，要通过一座小桥才能出入。这是孟加拉国服装业势力的象征，是该国最有影响力的工厂主协会的总部。而且这栋楼是一座非法建筑。
So said the Bangladesh High Court, concluding that the land had been illegally obtained, the building had been erected without proper approvals and the location threatened a network of lakes that form the natural drainage system of the capital. The High Court called the building “a scam of abysmal proportions” and ordered it demolished within 90 days.
至少孟加拉国高等法院(Bangladesh High Court)是这样说的。高等法院判决这块土地系非法取得，大楼建造时未获得适当的批准，大楼的选址也对构成该市自然排水系统的一连串湖区造成威胁。孟加拉国高等法院称该建筑是“一个重大骗局”，并下令在90天内拆除这座楼。
That was two years ago. The building still stands. The case is now in a legal limbo — more proof, according to critics, of the power of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association. Members control the engine of the national economy — garment exports to the United States and Europe. Many serve in Parliament, or own television stations and newspapers.
那已经是两年前的事情了。如今，这座大楼依然矗立在那里，这个案件至今没有下文。批评人士评价，这进一步证明了孟加拉国服装制造商和出口商协会（Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association，简称BGMEA）的势力非常强大。该协会的成员掌控着国民经济支柱产业——面向美国和欧洲的服装出口。很多成员要么是国会议员，要么拥有电视台和报纸。
For two decades, as Bangladesh became a garment power, now trailing only China in global clothing exports, the trade group has often seemed more like a government ministry. Known as B.G.M.E.A., the organization helps regulate and administer exports and its leaders sit on high-level government committees on labor and security issues. Industry trade groups in the United States could only imagine such a role. But the April collapse of the illegally constructed Rana Plaza factory building, which killed more than 1,100 people, has placed the entire global supply chain that delivers clothes from Bangladeshi factories to Western consumers under scrutiny. And the quasi-official garment group, in the eyes of its critics, presents a major conflict of interest at the center of Bangladesh’s troubles and is a big part of the systemic problems that have made the country a dangerous place for garment workers.
在大约20年的时间里，随着孟加拉国在全球服装出口领域，成为仅次于中国的出口大国，这个行业协会常常会显得更像是一个政府部门。BGMEA帮助监督和管理出口行业，该协会的领导们端坐在负责劳工和安全问题的高级政府委员会之中。这样的权力，美国的行业协会只能幻想。但非法建造的拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)工厂大楼在今年4月发生坍塌，导致超过1100人死亡，坍塌事件致使整个国际供应链——将服装从孟加拉国的工厂送至西方顾客手中的各个环节——都受到了严密的关注。而且在批评人士眼中，这个半官方的服装业协会所暴露出的利益冲突，是孟加拉国遇到的麻烦的核心，并且在很大程度上构成了系统性的问题。对于服装厂工人来说，正是这些问题使孟加拉国变成了一个危险的地方。
“You can’t put the fox in charge of the chickens,” said Rizwana Hasan, an environmental lawyer. “B.G.M.E.A. has no regulatory authority under the laws of the country. It’s a clubhouse of the garment industry.”
“你不能让狐狸来管鸡，”环境律师里兹瓦纳·哈桑(Rizwana Hasan)说。“根据孟加拉国的法律，BGMEA没有监管权力。它是一个服装行业俱乐部。”
Bangladesh is working to restore the garment industry’s credibility after last month’s decision by the Obama administration to suspend a special trade preference for the country. The European Union is also considering penalties. Bangladesh has responded by passing new labor laws and pledging to inspect the structural safety and legal compliance of the nation’s 5,000 garment factories.
在奥巴马政府上个月决定暂停针对孟加拉国的一项特别贸易优惠后，该国正努力恢复服装行业的信誉。欧洲联盟(European Union)也正在考虑实施惩罚。作为回应，孟加拉国通过了新的劳动法，并承诺对该国5000家服装厂的结构安全进行检查，核查它们是否遵守法律。
In both instances, the garment group’s interests were well represented. It has hired a team of engineers and is helping oversee the post-Rana Plaza factory inspections — even as the High Court cited the group for a litany of violations on its own headquarters. Meanwhile, the trade group brought its influence to bear in a lobbying campaign as Parliament amended the labor laws earlier this month.
在上述两个案例中，该服装业协会的利益得到了充分的体现。该协会聘请了一个工程师团队，正在帮助监管拉纳广场惨剧后，对工厂展开的调查——尽管高等法院因为该协会总部大楼一系列的违规现象而对其进行传唤。与此同时，就在孟加拉国会于本月早些时候修订劳动法的时候，该行业协会开展了一场游说活动施加影响。
Bangladeshi officials promised to overhaul their labor laws, which fall short of standards defined by the International Labor Organization and tend to suppress unions, contributing to safety problems, labor advocates say. But the results of the overhaul were less significant, especially for the garment industry. One amendment required that industries create profit-sharing programs for workers. But exporting industries, notably the garment sector, were exempted.
劳工权益倡导者表示，孟加拉国的官员承诺全面修订劳动法。之前的法律没有达到国际劳工组织(International Labor Organization)规定的标准，往往会压制工会，这种现象加剧了安全问题。但全面修订劳动法产生的影响没有那么明显，特别是对服装行业来说。一项修正案要求各个行业为工人建立利润分享计划。但出口行业除外，尤其是服装行业。
Restrictions on labor organizing were eased, but far from fully lifted. The new law requires that 30 percent of factory workers must sign petitions to form a union, a telling obstacle given that many factories have thousands of employees and have few places to hold meetings and organize.
针对劳工组织的限制有所放宽，但完全解除限制还很遥远。新法律规定，要想组建工会，需要有30%的工人签署请愿书。很多工厂拥有数以千计的员工，但用于开会、组织活动的地方却非常少，这是一个明显的障碍。
“Bangladesh had a golden opportunity,” said Roy Ramesh Chandra, a labor leader, who said that the political influence of factory owners diluted some of the amendments. “The employers have tremendous influence.”
“孟加拉国曾有一个黄金时机，”劳工领导人罗伊·拉梅什·钱德拉(Roy Ramesh Chandra)说。他说工厂主的政治影响力会使一些法律修订内容失去作用。“雇主的影响力非常大。”
Business interests dominate Bangladesh’s Parliament. Of its 300 members, an estimated 60 percent are involved in industry or business. Analysts say 31 members, or 10 percent of the country’s national legislators, directly own garment factories, while others have indirect financial interests in the industry.
商业利益控制着孟加拉国议会。在300名议员当中，估计有60%的人涉足工商业。分析人士说，孟加拉国会的议员中有31人，也就是10%的人，直接拥有服装厂，其他人则与该行业有间接的经济利益关系。
Factory owners say their political clout is vastly overstated and dismiss suggestions that they exert influence over top elected leaders, and some analysts agree their influence is sometimes overstated. But the trade group clearly is part of the process in ways that set Bangladesh apart.
工厂主说，他们的政治影响力被过度夸大了，而且他们还否认了自己会对当选的高层领导施加影响。一些分析人士也赞同这些人的影响力有时会被夸大的观点。但是，这个行业协会明显地参与到了使孟加拉国出现分裂的进程之中。
The trade group was formed in 1983 as Bangladesh, then one of the world’s poorest countries, was trying to build its economy by developing a garment industry. Initially, it had no headquarters and no bank account.
该行业协会成立于1983年。当时，孟加拉国作为世界上最贫困的国家之一，正在努力通过发展服装业来奠定经济基础。刚开始时，它既没有大楼，也没有存款。
“When I first went out there, the B.G.M.E.A. was run out of a garage,” recalled Don Brasher, who worked as a trade consultant to Bangladesh for more than a decade. “It was not institutionalized at all.”
“当我第一次来到这里的时候，BGMEA还在车库里办公，”在孟加拉国担任了长达十多年贸易顾问的唐·布拉舍(Don Brasher)回忆道。“当时一点都不规范。”
That quickly changed. Under the rules of global textiles, developing countries faced restrictions on garment exports and, in the case of the United States, were assigned trade quotas. Managing this quota system was critical and complicated. Bangladesh’s government decided to delegate administrative tasks to the trade group — including the authority to regulate certain transactions and collect fees.
情况很快就发生了变化。按照国际纺织业行业规则，发展中国家在服装出口方面要受到限制，而且具体到美国，还会向发展中国家设置贸易配额。管理这个配额系统是一项重要且复杂的工作。孟加拉国政府决定把行政职能委派给该贸易协会——其中还包括监管特定交易和收取费用的权力。
“That was pretty extraordinary,” said Mr. Brasher, who lived in Dhaka for two years and worked closely with the group on the quota system. “Ordinarily, that is done by a government agency. There’s nothing like that, anywhere. But it was done out of necessity.”
“这种情况非常特别，”布拉舍说。他已经在达卡住了两年，而且曾与BGMEA在配额体系方面进行过密切合作。“一般情况下，这项工作都是由政府机构来完成的。其他任何地方都没出现过这种情况。但当时这样做是有必要的。”
Bangladesh’s government is notoriously corrupt and has limited bureaucratic capacity to handle the intricate mechanics of global trade. Politics is ferociously contested and marred by regular nationwide strikes, known as hartals. In this environment, the group became a stabilizing force as global trade rapidly grew.
孟加拉国政府的腐败人尽皆知，它在应对错综复杂的国际贸易运作方面的行政能力也颇为有限。政治领域充满激烈纷争，而且经常遭遇全国性罢工，也就是所谓的罢工罢市(hartal)。在这种环境下，BGMEA就成了国际贸易迅速发展过程中一股能够维持稳定的力量。
Even after the quota system expired in 2005, the trade group steadily expanded its regulatory responsibilities. Today, it enjoys a near stranglehold on exports: only factories that are among its members are allowed to export woven garments, with some exceptions. The group regulates the importation of fabric and issues certificates of origin, the required proof that a garment is made in Bangladesh. It has arbitration committees to settle disputes and administers the often-complex practice of subcontracting.
2005年，当配额系统失效之后，BGMEA仍然在稳步扩张其管理权限。如今，它几乎一手把持着孟加拉国的出口：除一些例外情况以外，只有作为协会成员的工厂才能出口纺织服装。该协会还负责控制布料进口和发放原产地证书（证明服装原产地为孟加拉国的文件）。它设有一个仲裁委员会，负责解决争端和管理往往比较复杂的分包业务。
Many factory owners portray the industry as a public service, providing millions of jobs. The health of the garment sector is often seen as a national security issue, with the industry accounting for 80 percent of Bangladesh’s manufacturing exports and providing critical foreign exchange. It is the trade group that maintains order in daily operations of the industry, owners say.
很多工厂主都说服装业是一个公共服务行业，因为它提供了数百万个工作岗位。而服装行业的运行情况往往被看做是关乎国家安全的事，因为服装业占孟加拉国制造业出口的80%，而且还会带来重要的外汇收入。工厂主说，正是这一组织维持着服装业的日常运营秩序。
“Otherwise, there would be chaos,” said Annisul Huq, a former president of the trade group. “Yes, we can criticize the B.G.M.E.A. But it has a very strong role. Somebody has to lead.”
“否则就会出现混乱，”曾担任该行业协会主席的安尼苏尔·胡克(Annisul Huq)说。“是的，我们可以批评BGMEA。但它的地位非常重要，我们总要有个领导者。”
Factory owners face many challenges in Bangladesh, including high interest rates on loans. But the heroic self-image of the sector is somewhat overstated. Garment factories enjoy subsidies and tax breaks not offered to other industries, and pay less tax. A recent study in a Bengali-language newspaper estimated that these subsidies and tax breaks exceeded tax revenues from the industry by roughly $17 million.
孟加拉国的工厂主面临着很多挑战，其中之一就是当地的贷款利率很高。然而，服装业自我标榜的英雄形象的确有些言过其实。服装厂可以享受其他行业享受不到的补贴和税收减免，而且需要缴纳的税款也更低。一家孟加拉语报纸近期发表的研究估计，服装业所享有的补贴和税收减免总额，超过了该行业带来的税收，差额大约为1700万美元（约合10499万元人民币）。
“The doors of the treasury are open for them,” said Badiul Alam Majumdar, secretary of the nonprofit group Citizens for Good Governance. “They extract all kinds of subsidies. They influence legislation. They influence the minimum wage. And because they are powerful, they can do, or undo, almost anything, with impunity.”
“国库向他们敞开了大门，”非营利团体“良好施政公民组织”(Citizens for Good Governance)的干事巴迪乌尔·阿拉姆·马宗达(Badiul Alam Majumdar)说。“他们榨取了所有的补贴。他们左右立法。他们影响最低工资。他们正是因为强大，才可以在不受惩罚的情况下，为所欲为。”