DHAKA, Bangladesh — The police in Bangladesh filed formal murder charges on Monday against 41 people accused of involvement in the 2013 collapse of a building that housed several clothing factories, leaving more than 1,100 people dead in the worst disaster in garment industry history.
周一，孟加拉国警方正式对被指与2013年的一起大楼坍塌事件有牵连的41人提起谋杀指控。当时，涉事大楼里有多家服装厂，而坍塌事件导致超过1100人死亡。这是制衣业历史上死亡人数最高的一场灾难。
Among those charged were Sohel Rana, the owner of the building; his parents, the owners of several factories in the building; and at least a dozen government officials, according to a state prosecutor, Anwarul Kabir, who is part of the legal team that will pursue the case.
据孟加拉国检察官安瓦尔·卡比尔(Anwarul Kabir)介绍，被告包括大楼的主人索赫尔·拉纳(Sohel Rana)及其父母，也就是楼内几家服装厂的老板，还有至少十几名政府官员。卡比尔所在的法律团队将追查这起案件。
If convicted, the accused could face the death penalty, said Bijoy Krishna Kar, the investigating officer who filed the charges on Monday.
周一提起指控的调查人员比乔伊·克里士纳·卡尔(Bijoy Krishna Kar)表示，一旦罪名成立，被告或将面临死刑。
The collapse of Rana Plaza led to an international outcry, and to a commitment by Western retailers to widespread inspections of Bangladesh’s thousands of apparel factories.
这栋名叫拉纳广场的大楼的垮塌引发了国际社会的强烈抗议，也促使西方零售商承诺对孟加拉国的数千家服装厂进行大范围检查。
Mr. Kabir said the investigating officer for the police had also submitted to a court in Dhaka, the capital, charges against 18 people for building code violations. Of those 18 people, 17 were among those charged with murder on Monday, including Mr. Rana and his parents.
卡比尔称，警方的调查人员还向首都达卡的一家法院递交了诉状，控告18人违反建筑规范。在这18人中，有17人同是周一被控谋杀的被告，包括拉纳及其父母。
A high-level state report released in 2013 found that the building was constructed with substandard materials in violation of building codes, and recommended bringing formal charges against the owner, Mr. Rana, as well as against the owners of five factories in the building.
2013年发布的一份高级别官方报告显示，这栋大楼使用的是劣质建材，违反了建筑规范。该报告建议对大楼的所有人拉纳及楼内五家服装厂的老板提出正式指控。
The report stated that owners of the factories urged employees to return to work even after an engineer inspected the building the day before the collapse and deemed it unsafe. The upper stories of the building were illegally constructed, and heavy generators installed there caused the building to shake, it said.
文中称，就在坍塌的前一天，有位工程师去检查了大楼，并认定其不安全，但工厂老板依旧催促工人回去工作。报告说，大楼上面几层属违法建筑，安装在那里的重型发电机导致整栋楼摇摇晃晃。
“The workers were scared of losing their life or getting injury from the day before the building collapsed,” said Mr. Kar. “The building and factory owners and others accused in cool head compelled the scared workers to join the work.”
“从坍塌的前一天开始，工人们就怕会丧命或受伤，”卡尔说。“大楼主人、服装厂老板和其他一些人被控在头脑清醒的情况下强迫这些惊恐不已的工人继续工作。”
Bangladesh has more than 5,000 garment factories, handling orders for nearly all of the world’s top brands and retailers, and is second in garment manufacturing output behind China. It has the lowest wages for garment workers in the world, and the collapse at Rana Plaza drew attention to unsafe practices in the industry.
孟加拉国有超过5000家服装厂，订单来自世界上几乎所有顶级的品牌和零售商。孟加拉国的服装制造业产量仅次于中国。该国制衣工人的薪水则是世界上最低的。拉纳广场的垮塌引起了人们对服装行业不安全操作的重视。
The formal charges are a significant step toward the prosecution of garment factory owners, who often enjoy impunity in the country because of the economic heft and power of the industry.
正式指控是追究服装厂老板责任的重要步骤。在孟加拉国，因为该行业在经济上的重要性及其具有的影响力，服装厂老板常常能免于责罚。
But at least one victim did not believe that justice would come speedily. Mili Khatun, 25, a worker in one of the factories in Rana Plaza, was caught in the collapse, but locals rescued her from the rubble. Her husband, a cutting master in the same factory, was killed.
然而，至少有一名受害人不相信正义会迅速来到。25岁的米力·卡坦(Mili Khatun)也是拉纳广场一家服装厂的工人。坍塌事件发生时，她被困其中。当地人从碎石堆中把她救了出来。丈夫和她在同一家工厂工作，是一名裁剪师傅，在事故中遇难。
“I wanted punishment of the culprits, I wanted justice. I am not alone, all the victims wanted the same thing,” said Ms. Khatun. “I have doubts that the culprits will be punished.”
“我希望罪犯能够受到惩罚，希望正义能够来到。我不是一个人，所有的受害者都有这样的期待，”卡坦说。“我不知道罪犯会不会受到惩罚。”
Taslima Akhter, the coordinator of Bangladesh Garment Workers Solidarity, a worker’s organization, pointed out that it took the police two years to file charges.
劳工组织孟加拉国制衣工人团结工会(Bangladesh Garment Workers Solidarity)的协调员塔斯利马·阿克特尔(Taslima Akhter)指出，警方在事件发生两年后才提出指控。
“Now our concern is we are not sure how long it will take to complete trial to ensure final justice for the victims of the Rana Plaza tragedy,” she said.
“我们现在顾虑的是，不知道多久之后审判才能结束，让拉纳广场悲剧的受害人能够得到公正，”她说。