DHAKA, Bangladesh — In an apparently unprecedented ruling, 152 former members of the Bangladesh Rifles, a paramilitary border security force, were sentenced to death on Tuesday in connection with a bloody 2009 mutiny in which several thousand troops took control of their headquarters, demanding better working conditions, and killed scores of people.
孟加拉国达卡——本周二，在一项看似前所未有的判决中，准军事边境安全部队“孟加拉国步枪队”(Bangladesh Rifles)的152名前成员被判处死刑。这项判决跟2009年的流血兵变有关，当时数千名步枪队成员控制了该组织总部，要求改善工作条件，并造成数十人死亡。
Some of the border guards broke down in tears after hearing their sentence, pronounced by Judge Mohammad Akhtaruzzaman in a crowded Dhaka courtroom under heavy security, and others shouted at the judge, saying the verdict was unfair.
在达卡一个戒备森严、座无虚席的法庭上，法官穆罕默德·阿肯塔路扎曼(Mohammad Akhtaruzzaman)宣布了这项判决。听到判决后，有些步枪队成员情绪崩溃，泪流满面，另一些则冲着法官喊叫，称该判决不公正。
“Allah will deliver justice of this injustice,” they said.
“对于这种不公，真主会伸张正义。”他们说。
Judge Akhtaruzzaman said the testimony of some witnesses who described the blood bath was hair-raising. “The slain people were not merely killed,” he said. “The dead bodies did not get the respect they deserve according to the law.”
阿肯塔路扎曼法官表示，对于那次流血兵变，一些证人在证词中的描述令人发指。“遇难者并不是仅仅被杀死了而已，”他说。“尸体没有按照法律的规定得到应有的尊重。”
The mutiny began suddenly, at an annual conference of the border force, as a number of guards took their commanders, officers of the Bangladeshi Army, hostage. As soldiers massed around the building, the border guards announced a list of demands, among them better pay, permission to participate in lucrative United Nations peacekeeping missions, and changes in the force’s command and control structure.
兵变是在步枪队的一次年度会议上突然发生的，当时，大量步枪队成员把担任他们指挥官的孟加拉国陆军军官扣为人质。军队把这栋建筑物团团围住后，兵变参与者提出了一系列要求，比如获得更多的酬劳，可以参与待遇优厚的联合国维和任务，改变步枪队的指挥和控制构架等等。
The revolt sprang from the border guards’ longstanding jealousy of regular army troops, who had better quarters and pay. After the mutiny, the force, which guards the 2,500-mile border with India and Myanmar, was renamed the Border Guard Bangladesh.
这起兵变的起因，是步枪队长期嫉妒正规军部队的待遇，后者的宿舍更好，薪酬更高。兵变发生后，这支负责守卫该国和印度、缅甸2500英里边境线的部队更名为孟加拉国边境卫队(Border Guard Bangladesh)。
The revolt collapsed 33 hours later, after army tanks surrounded the border guards’ headquarters in the heart of this crowded capital. As the uprising ended, many border guards reportedly shed their uniforms and fled the site, while security forces combed the area for fugitives.
在人多拥挤的首都达卡，军队出动坦克，包围了位于市中心的步枪队总部，兵变在持续了33小时后结束。据报道，兵变结束后，很多步枪队成员脱下制服，逃离现场。为了追捕逃犯，安全部队则对该区域进行了彻底搜查。
Police officers entering the building found a mass grave containing the bodies of officers in combat fatigues who had been seized as hostages. Seventy-four people were killed in the uprising, including 57 top-ranking and midranking army officers. The rest were civilians.
警务人员进入步枪队总部后，发现了一个堆尸坑，内有穿着战斗服的军官的尸体，他们之前被兵变者扣押为人质。74人在这次兵变中遇害，其中包括57名高级和中级军官。其余都是平民。
The mutiny posed a stark test for the country’s leadership, elected after two years of army-backed emergency rule.
孟加拉国领导层是在军方支持的紧急状态持续两年之后当选的，这次兵变对他们是一个严峻考验。
Rights advocates said they could not recall a time when so many defendants were sentenced to the death penalty in one single court proceeding. They were particularly struck by both the severity and the scope of the punishment in a country that has an established legal system and is not in a state of war.
人权倡导者说，在他们的印象中，没有这么多被告在同一个法院诉讼中被判处死刑的先例。在一个司法系统较为完善，而且没有处于战争状态的国家，出现了这种规模和严重程度的处罚，尤其令他们感到惊讶。
“It’s possible that there’s some civil war situation where this might have happened, but there’s nobody who’s thought of it,” said Brad Adams, the executive director of Human Rights Watch’s Asia division. “We can’t think of anything like it.”
“如果是在打内战，这种情况倒是可能会出现，但是谁也没有想到会这样。”人权观察组织亚洲区负责人布拉德·亚当斯(Brad Adams)说。“这样的事情我们无法料到。”
Prosecutors originally brought charges against 850 people — 827 men serving in the Bangladesh Rifles and 23 civilians — but 277 were acquitted on Tuesday in the mass trial, which began in August 2011. Of those convicted, 256 were given sentences of 20 years or less and 161, including Nasiruddin Ahmed Pintu, a former opposition member of Parliament, were sentenced to life in prison. Four of the accused died during the course of the trial.
审判开始于2011年8月，检察官最初起诉了850人——827名步枪队成员，以及23名平民——在周二的大规模审判中，277名被告被宣告无罪。在被定罪的人中，256人被判处20年及以下的监禁，包括反对党前议员纳萨鲁丁·艾哈迈德·平图(Nasiruddin Ahmed Pintu)在内的161人被判处终身监禁。4名被告在审判过程中死亡。
Defense lawyers said they would appeal, but relatives of the commanders killed applauded the sentences.
辩护律师说，他们将提出上诉，但遇害指挥官的亲属对这项判决拍手称快。
“We can’t be satisfied until the verdict is implemented,” said Nehreen Ferdousi, the widow of one slain officer, Col. Mujibul Huq.
“在判决执行之前，我们是不会罢休的。”穆吉布·哈克(Mujibul Huq)上校的遗孀尼哈宁·法多西(Nehreen Ferdousi)说。
Bangladesh has been one of the least frequent users of the death penalty in countries that still have capital punishment, according to Amnesty International. If all the defendants sentenced to death on Tuesday are executed, Bangladesh would rocket to third place in Amnesty’s annual ranking of death penalty countries, surpassing Iraq, but still below Iran and China.
国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)的资料显示，在仍然保留死刑的国家中，孟加拉国是判处死刑最少的国家之一。如果本周二判处死刑的被告全部被正法，孟加拉国将会窜升到国际特赦组织年度死刑国家排名榜的第三位，高于伊拉克，但仍然位居伊朗和中国之下。