DHAKA, Bangladesh — A bombing at Bangladesh’s largest gathering for the Eid al-Fitr holiday killed two police officers and a civilian on Thursday, police officials said, a day after the Islamic State warned that more attacks would follow the militants’ bloody siege in the capital last week.
孟加拉国达卡——警方官员表示，周四在孟加拉国最大的开斋节聚会上发生的爆炸，已导致两名警察和一名平民丧生。这次事件发生的前一天，伊斯兰国曾警告说，武装分子上周在孟加拉国首都制造了血腥人质事件后，还会发动更多的袭击。
The attack on Thursday occurred at Sholakia Eidgah, a prayer ground in the Kishoreganj district, about 60 miles northeast of Dhaka, the capital. More than 100,000 people were estimated to have gathered there for Eid al-Fitr, the holiday that concludes the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
周四的袭击事件发生在首都达卡东北部约100公里的吉绍尔甘杰县的秀拉奇亚·埃德戈(Sholakia Eidgah)祈祷地。据估计，有10多万人聚集在那里，以庆祝标志着穆斯林斋月结束的开斋节。
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina issued a statement deploring the attack and the killers who had carried it out. “What kind of Islamic virtues do they hold as they go to kill people instead of offering their prayers at prayers time, carry out a suicidal bomb attack,” she said.
孟加拉国总理谢赫·哈西娜发表声明谴责了袭击以及制造袭击的杀人者。她说，“他们在该祈祷的时候不作祈祷，而是去杀人，制造自杀式炸弹袭击，这些人哪还有什么伊斯兰美德？”
In the aftermath of a bloody weekend attack carried out by young men, several from prosperous families, the prime minister renewed official entreaties to parents and school administrators to inform the authorities about unexplained and prolonged absences by young men.
包括有些来自富裕家庭在内的几名年轻男子制造了上周末的血腥袭击之后，孟加拉国总理曾再次恳求家长和学校管理者，将年轻男子原因不明的长时间消失告知当局。
“I urge the guardians to take steps to bring back their missing sons home,” she said. “We will give them all cooperation to find their missing boys and for their treatment, if necessary.”
“我敦促监护人采取措施，把他们下落不明的儿子找回家，”她说。“我们将给予他们全面的合作，帮助他们找到失踪的男孩，如果有必要的话，也为这些男孩提供治疗。”
More details emerged about the attack on the religious gathering on Thursday.
周四宗教集会袭击案的更多细节逐渐浮出。
About half an hour before morning prayers were to begin, a group of men approached a police checkpoint at a high school near the prayer ground and set off a bomb, said Tofazzel Hossain, an assistant superintendent of the Kishoreganj police. “They attacked the police out of nowhere,” said Mr. Hossain, who added that some of the attackers had been carrying guns and bladed weapons.
吉绍尔甘杰助理警司托法泽尔·侯赛因(Tofazzel Hossain)说，晨祷开始大约半个小时前，一群男子前往设在祈祷场所附近一所高中的警察检查站，引爆了一枚炸弹。“他们突然出现，袭击了检查站，”侯赛因说，一些袭击者携带着枪支和刀具。
Six other officers were seriously wounded, said a police inspector, Mueid Chowdhury, but they were expected to survive. Several civilians were also hurt.
督察穆伊德·乔杜里(Mueid Chowdhury)说，有六名警察受了重伤，但他们应该没有生命危险。还有几名平民受伤。
The police killed one of the attackers and arrested two others, Mr. Hossain said. A search was underway for the other assailants.
侯赛因说，警察击毙了一名袭击者，逮捕了两名。目前他们正在搜索其他袭击者。
Security had been tightened for Eid celebrations around Bangladesh after the militant assault Friday night on an upscale restaurant in Dhaka’s diplomatic district, in which at least 20 hostages were killed. On Wednesday, the Islamic State, which claimed responsibility for the restaurant siege, released a video threatening more such attacks in Bangladesh.
上周五晚上在达卡的外交区，一家高档餐馆遭到武装分子袭击，导致至少20名人质丧生，之后孟加拉国各地加强了开斋节的安全保障措施。周三，伊斯兰国声称对餐馆袭击案负责，并公布了一段视频，威胁将对孟加拉国进行更多这样的袭击。
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack on Thursday. But the imam of the Sholakia Eidgah mosque, Maulana Fariduddin Masud, had taken a public stance against violence committed in the name of Islam. In January, he led more than 100,000 Islamic clerics in signing a fatwa, or religious ruling, that condemned militancy.
目前还没有谁立即宣称对周四的袭击负责。但秀拉奇亚·埃德戈清真寺的伊玛目福里杜丁·马苏德毛拉(Maulana Fariduddin Masud)一直公开反对以伊斯兰教的名义做出的暴力行为。今年一月，他带领逾10万伊斯兰神职人员签署了一份谴责好战分子的教令，也就是一项宗教裁决。