Criticized over unsafe conditions and low pay in its garment industry, Bangladesh took a first step to raise wages on Monday with a special government-appointed board voting to nearly double the minimum wage. Factory owners complained that the increase was too high, labor leaders that it was too low.
由于工资水平低和生产条件不安全，孟加拉制衣行业饱受诟病。本周一，该国向提高工资水平迈出了第一步：政府任命的一个特别委员会投票通过了将最低工资标准提高近一倍的提议。工厂老板抱怨升幅太大，劳工领袖则抱怨升幅太小。
Factories in Bangladesh, the world’s second-leading apparel exporter after China, keep costs down by paying garment workers the lowest wages in the world — the current minimum is 3,000 taka, about $38, a month. The wage board recommended on Monday that it be raised to 5,300 taka, about $68.
孟加拉是世界上仅次于中国的第二大制衣出口国，通过向制衣工人支付全球最低水平的工资，孟加拉工厂保持了成本的低廉——目前的最低月工资为3000塔卡（约合人民币230元）。本周一，工资委员会建议将其提高到5300塔卡。
The recommendation is considered a critical step but not the last word; it must be approved by Bangladesh’s Labor Ministry before taking effect. Many observers predict that the final decision will be made by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, who intervened in favor of workers in 2010 during the last wage negotiations.
该建议被认为是一个关键步骤，而不是最终决定；它必须经孟加拉劳动部批准后方能生效。许多观察家预测，最终决定将由孟加拉总理谢赫·哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)做出；在2010年的上一次工资谈判中，哈西娜的介入就对工人一方有利。
“It is the expectation of all the workers that the prime minister will intervene, and she will increase the salaries,” Roy Ramesh Chandra, a labor leader involved in the wage negotiations, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Chandra noted that with national elections approaching, the country’s four million garment workers were watching the wage talks closely.
罗伊·拉梅什·钱德拉(Roy Ramesh Chandra)是参与工资谈判的一位劳工领袖，他在电话采访中表示：“所有制衣工人都期待着总理介入，期待她提高工资水平。”钱德拉指出，随着孟加拉大选的临近，全国400万制衣工人正在密切关注着这次工资谈判。
Bangladesh’s garment industry has faced growing international pressure to improve worker safety and wages, especially since the collapse of the Rana Plaza factory building in April, which killed more than 1,100 garment workers. But the Rana Plaza disaster also focused attention on a global supply chain in which multinational brands push hard to keep costs down.
在提高工人工资和改善工作安全条件方面，孟加拉制衣行业面临着越来越大的国际压力，特别是在今年4月拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)大楼的倒塌导致1100多名制衣工人丧生之后。但是那场灾难也使得人们的注意力集中在了全球供应链上，跨国品牌一直大力压低供应链中的成本。
More than 100 multinational clothing brands and retailers have signed a legally binding, Europe-dominated accord that requires them to help finance fire safety and building improvements in Bangladeshi factories. But most American brands, including Walmart and Gap, refused to join, and have instead pursued an approach that does not oblige them to help finance safety improvements.
逾100家跨国制衣品牌和零售商已经签署了一份具有法律约束力的、以欧洲为主导的协定，同意协助提供孟加拉国制衣厂改善消防安全及楼宇设施的资金。但包括沃尔玛和Gap在内的大多数美国品牌都拒绝加入这个协定，而是寻求一种不会迫使它们提供这种资金帮助的合作方式。
Bangladesh’s economy is heavily dependent on the garment industry for jobs and foreign exchange earnings. Factory owners say that to stay competitive they must keep wages from rising too high.
孟加拉经济严重依赖制衣行业来获得就业机会和外汇收入。制衣厂老板说，为了保持竞争力，他们必须抑制工资的过大涨幅。
Mohammad Fazlul Azim, a factory owner and member of Parliament, warned that the wage increase could bankrupt many factories. In a telephone interview, he called on global brands to pay higher prices for the goods they order. “The customers, who are the supply chain partners, should help,” Mr. Azim said, but they have instead told factories to find savings in their own operations.
工厂老板和议会成员穆罕默德·法兹勒·阿齐姆(Mohammad Fazlul Azim)警告说，提高最低工资标准可能会导致很多工厂破产。在电话采访中，他呼吁国际品牌为订单支付更高的价格。“这些客户是供应链合作伙伴，它们应该帮忙，”阿齐姆说，但它们已经告诉制衣厂在自己的经营活动中节省开支。
Labor leaders say the proposed $68-a-month minimum wage is still not enough to allow workers to meet their basic needs. Despite rapid economic growth, incomes in the country remain low — averaging $1,044 a year per person, according to the latest government estimates — and many garment workers find their limited earnings being eaten up by high inflation.
劳工领袖们说，委员会建议的每月5300塔卡的最低工资仍然不能满足工人的基本生活需求。尽管孟加拉的经济在快速增长，人们的收入却依然很低——根据政府的最新数据，平均每人每年为1044美元（约合人民币6360元）——很多制衣工人发现，自己微薄的收入正在遭受高通胀的吞噬。