NEW YORK — Above a Korean fried chicken restaurant in Jackson Heights, Queens, Showkat Khan worked the room of mostly Bangladeshi men, speaking Bengali with a few English phrases mixed in, his enthusiastic message of opportunity broadcast through a crackling amp. At one point, he held aloft a copy of New York City’s Civil Service newspaper, The Chief.
纽约——身处皇后区杰克逊高地一家韩式炸鸡餐厅楼上的肖卡特·汗(Showkat Khan)，正与自己的听众热情互动。这里的大多是孟加拉男子，他通过一个声音劈裂的扩音器，用夹杂着英语的孟加拉语向他们传播有关各种机会的好消息。一度，他高高举起了一份报道纽约公务员事务的报纸：《首领》(The Chief)。
“You are here to make money in this country, and to get a better life,” Mr. Khan said.
“你们来到这个国家的目的是赚钱，过上更好的生活，”肖卡特·汗说。
There was more than one way toward that American dream, he acknowledged, outlining a few options. But one path seemed to stand above the others, if only because Mr. Khan had already paved the way: He is a traffic enforcement agent.
他表示，通往美国梦的道路多种多样，随即大致给出了几个选项。但有一条道路似乎比其他那些更好走，原因之一在于肖卡特·汗已经把它铺平了：他是一名交通协管员。
Mr. Khan is part of an influx of Bangladeshi immigrants who earn a living by writing parking summonses for the city, a curious and growing presence navigating the choking traffic and bumper-to-bumper sea of parked cars.
汗隶属于纽约市内一支以签发违规停车传票为生的孟加拉移民大军。这是一个正在日益增长的奇特群体，穿梭在交通堵塞之间，管理着由密密匝匝的停泊车辆构成的车海。
Bangladeshi immigrants, who represent less than 1 percent of the city’s population, now make up between 10 percent and 15 percent of the 3,000 traffic agents, Robert Cassar, the president of the union representing the agents, said.
罗伯特·卡萨尔(Robert Cassar)是代表交通协管员利益的一家工会的主席，他说，占纽约总人口的比例不足1%的孟加拉移民，在该市3000名交通协管员中占比高达10%至15%。
The Friday after Thanksgiving, which many New Yorkers mistakenly believe offers a holiday reprieve from usual parking restrictions, is in fact one of the busiest days of the year for traffic agents. Mohammed Chowdhury, who is from Bangladesh and supervises traffic operations for much of Queens, said his officers might write three times as many tickets on that day.
事实上，感恩节过后的这个周五是交通协管员本年度最忙碌的日子之一。因为很多纽约人都误认为可以获得假日特赦，不必遵守例行的停车限制。来自孟加拉、主管皇后区大部分地段的交通工作的穆罕穆德·乔杜里(Mohammed Chowdhury)说，他手下的工作人员在这一天开的罚单是平日里的三倍。
“The next morning, everyone is feeling lazy; and who is going to get up and move the car?” he said. “If there is street cleaning on Friday where you live, almost 80 percent of the cars won’t be moved. They’ll all get ticketed.”
“第二天早上，所有人都懒懒的；谁会从床上爬起来去挪车呢？”他说。“假如你住的地方周五有人扫街，几乎80%的车辆不会被挪走，它们都会得到罚单。”
In the last decade, union officials said, at least 400 Bangladeshi immigrants have become traffic agents in New York, opening a new career path to those who traditionally find their way in this country from behind the wheel of a taxicab. City records put the number at slightly less than 200, but Police Department officials said they suspected the number to be higher because many employees do not list their birthplace.
工会官员称，过去十年间，至少有400名孟加拉移民在纽约当上了交通协管员，从而为这个族群开辟了一条崭新的职业道路——他们以前通常会涌入美国的出租车行业寻找出路。纽约市的相关记录显示，在交通协管员中，孟加拉移民的数量略低于200人，但警察局官员说，他们怀疑人数还要更多一些，因为许多雇员并未登记自己的出生地。
Salaries start at $29,000 a year, but the insurance benefits and pension are generous. A college education and citizenship are not needed; one must be legally eligible to work in the United States and possess a high school diploma. Residency requirements are also slight.
交通执法人员的起薪是每年2.9万美元，不过保险福利和退休金十分丰厚。申请者无须具有大学学历，也不必是美国公民，但必须具有在美国合法工作的资格，且持有高中毕业证书。有关居留时间的要求也很宽松。
The proliferation of Bangladeshi traffic agents has a lot to do with word of mouth, much of it from Mr. Khan, a 53-year-old traffic agent and union official whose informal advice and encouragement to Bangladeshi immigrants turned into sit-down seminars, in which he helps applicants prepare for the Civil Service exam.
孟加拉裔交通执法人员的增多在很大程度上靠的是口头宣传，而汗就做了大量的宣传工作。这位53岁的交通协管员同时也是工会干事，他带给孟加拉移民的非正式建议和鼓励已经演变成了讲座，他会在讲座上帮助移民们准备公务员考试。
“I had thought having a uniform meant you were born in America; that was a misunderstanding,” recalled Mr. Khan, an energetic man who made a living as an itinerant magician in his native Bangladesh. “When I joined, I opened the door.”
“我曾经以为，只有出生在美国的人才能拥有一套制服；这是一种误解，”卡恩回忆说，“当我加入公务员队伍的时候，我打开了这扇大门。”他是一个精力充沛的男人，当初在故乡孟加拉，他是靠四处奔波表演魔术谋生的。
At a recent seminar, one person in attendance, Md. Shamim Al Mamun, 33, said he had been in New York for only 16 days. Asked what he intended to pursue, Mr. Mamun said, “I’m interested in traffic enforcement.”
33岁的穆罕默德·沙米姆·阿尔-马蒙( Md. Shamim Al Mamun)参加了最近的一次讲座，他说自己才来纽约16天。当被问及打算从事什么职业的时候，马蒙表示，“我对交通协管工作很感兴趣。”
The work can be challenging. The agents sweat through the summer, shiver through the winter and bristle year-round at the insults shouted as they slip parking tickets under windshield wipers. The insults can be particularly unsettling to new immigrants only in the country for a few months.
这份工作有时并不轻松。执法人员在夏天汗流浃背，到了冬天又被冻得瑟瑟发抖。此外，当他们把违规停车罚单塞到雨刮器底下时，挨罚者常常破口大骂，他们一年到头都被污言秽语气得毛发倒竖。对于刚到美国没几个月的新移民而言，这样的侮辱尤为令人感到不安。
“A lot of people say, ‘Go back to your country,’ ” said Jamil Sarwar, a parking enforcement officer for several years. “But I ignored them because I know I’m doing no wrong. I work for the city.”
“很多人会说，‘滚回你的老家去吧，’”担任道路停车执法人员已有好几年的贾米勒·萨瓦尔(Jamil Sarwar)说。“但我会忽略他们，因为我知道自己没做错什么。我在为这个城市工作。”
Of the hundreds of Bangladeshi immigrants who became traffic agents over the years, about 100, including Mr. Sarwar, went on to be police officers, Mr. Khan said.
汗说，在数百名当上了交通协管员的孟加拉移民当中，约有100人会成为警察，萨瓦尔就是其中一个范例。
The influx initially caused some friction.
这些人的涌入起初带来了一些摩擦。
“Not only was there a language barrier, which is abating, but our Bangladeshi brothers and sisters were very standoffish at the beginning,” Mr. Cassar said. But over time, he added, they have become less insular and more willing to assimilate and adopt what he called “the traffic mentality.”
“不仅在语言上有障碍——这个障碍现在正日益变小——而且我们的孟加拉兄弟姐妹在最开始对人十分冷淡，”萨瓦尔说。但他补充道，时间一长，他们变得不那么格格不入了，而且更愿意容入新环境，更愿意采取他所谓的“交通心态”。
These days, the draw toward the traffic enforcement jobs can be felt in the office of Shah Nawaz, an insurance broker, who specializes in accident policies for livery and yellow-cab drivers. His office, in the Bangladesh Plaza, an office building in Jackson Heights, is as important a port of call for cabbies as the restaurants along Lexington Avenue.
这些天来，在保险经纪人 沙阿·纳瓦兹(Shah Nawaz)的办公室里，便可以感受到交通持法工作的吸引力。纳瓦兹专门从事电召车和黄色出租车司机的事故保险业务，其办公室设在位于杰克逊高地的孟加拉广场(Bangladesh Plaza)。对计程车司机而言，这个办公室是和列克星敦大道两侧的餐厅同等重要的地方。
Mr. Nawaz recalled that a cabdriver client had recently scaled back to part-time driving because of a new job as a parking enforcement officer. Not long afterward, a 24-year-old livery driver, who had sat down across from his desk to discuss insurance premiums, acknowledged that he was considering a change in jobs.
纳瓦兹回忆说，一位当出租车司机的客户最近把开出租变成了兼职，因为找到了一份当道路停车执法人员的新工作。不久，一位现年24岁，曾坐在纳瓦兹办公桌对面跟他讨论保费问题的电召车司机表示，他正考虑换个工作。
“I drive a cab, but I think traffic enforcement is a better job,” the livery driver, Abdul Hafiz, said.
“我在开出租，但我想交通协管是一份更好的工作，”那个名叫阿卜杜勒·哈菲兹(Abdul Hafiz)的电召车司机表示。
Mr. Nawaz’s bookkeeper, Mahmuda Haseen, is married to a traffic enforcement agent.
纳瓦兹的记账员马哈茂达·哈辛(Mahmuda Haseen)就和一个交通协管员结了婚。
“It is a very prestigious job,” she chimed in, noting that her husband had sent photographs of himself in his blue police uniform to relatives back home.
她在旁边说道，“这是一份非常受尊敬的工作”；并提到，她丈夫曾把自己身穿蓝色警服的照片发给家乡的亲戚们。
Parking enforcement jobs, Mr. Nawaz said, had become “a source of pride for a new generation of Bangladeshis.”
纳瓦兹说，泊车执法工作已经成为“新一代孟加拉人骄傲的源泉”。
He gestured to a framed photograph of his 14-year-old son, Sadman, and added: “He says, ‘I will be a police officer.’ I say, ‘It’s an honorable job working for the N.Y.P.D., why not?’ ”
纳瓦兹有一个14岁的儿子，名叫塞德曼(Sadman)。他指了指儿子的一张装在像框里的照片，补充道：“他说，‘我以后要当警察。’我说，‘为纽约市警察局(NYPD)工作是一份光荣的差事，挺好！’”