Facing intense international pressure to improve conditions for garment workers, Bangladeshi lawmakers amended the country’s labor law this week. But while the officials called the new law a landmark strengthening of workers’ protections, rights groups said the law made only modest changes and took numerous steps backward that undercut unions.
面对要求其改善服装工人工作条件的国际压力，孟加拉国立法者本周修改了劳动法。然而，尽管官方称新法是加强工人保护的里程碑，但权利组织认为该法律只做了不太大的调整，而且还有不少的倒退，削弱了工会。
Bangladeshi lawmakers adopted the new law three weeks after the United States suspended Bangladesh’s trade preferences, saying that labor rights and safety violations were far too prevalent in that country’s factories. Moreover, the European Union has threatened to revoke Bangladesh’s trade privileges for similar reasons.
三周前美国暂停了对孟加拉国的贸易优惠待遇，称该国工厂违反劳工权利和安全管理的做法比比皆是，在这之后孟加拉国议员正式通过了这项新法律。此外，欧盟(European Union)也威胁称会出于类似考虑，取消对孟加拉国的贸易优惠待遇。
Speaking about the new law, Khandaker Mosharraf Hossain, the chairman of the parliamentary subcommittee on labor reforms, told Reuters: “The aim was to ensure workers’ rights are strengthened, and we have done that. I am hoping this will assuage global fears around this issue.”
议会的劳工改革委员会主席孔达卡尔 ·穆沙拉夫·霍萨因(Khandaker Mosharraf Hossain)在提到新法律时对路透社(Reuters)记者说：“目标是确保加强工人的权益，我们已经这么做了。我希望这能缓解国际社会对这一问题的担忧。”
The Bangladeshi government has faced fierce pressure to improve conditions for the nation’s four million garment workers since the Rana Plaza factory building collapsed in April, killing 1,129 workers.
自从4月份拉纳广场(Rana Plaza)一座工厂大楼倒塌，造成1129名工人死亡之后，孟加拉国政府就一直面临着改善该国400万服装工人工作条件的巨大压力。
Under the new law, factories will be required to set aside 5 percent of profits for a welfare fund for employees, although the law exempts export-oriented factories. Apparel is Bangladesh’s dominant industry, with $18 billion in annual exports, making it the world’s second-largest garment exporter after China.
新法律规定，工厂必须拿出5%的利润给作为员工的福利基金，但是，以出口为导向的工厂则被免除此项义务。服装行业是孟加拉国的主要工业，每年出口额为180亿美元，使该国成为世界上仅次于中国的第二大服装出口国。
As under the old law, workers hoping to form a union must gather signatures of 30 percent of a company’s workers — a level that was onerous, labor leaders said, because many apparel manufacturers have thousands of workers. To make unionizing easier, labor leaders were urging lawmakers to adopt a 10 percent threshold. In Bangladesh, several unions might represent employees in a single factory.
原有法律规定，工人要成立工会必须得到该公司30%的工人的签名。劳工领导者称，这一要求过于苛刻，因为很多服装厂都有上千名工人。为了使成立工会变得更容易，劳工领导一直呼吁立法者把门槛降低到只需10%的工人签名。在孟加拉国，一家工厂中可能会有几个代表工人的工会。
Business leaders complain that Bangladeshi unions are highly political and sometimes stage disruptive strikes as a complementary tactic to political blocs’ lobbying and infighting.
企业领导人则抱怨孟加拉国的工会高度政治化，有时会为帮助政治集团游说和内讧而组织制造混乱的罢工。
In a step that could help unionization, the new law bars the country’s labor ministry from giving factory owners the list of the 30 percent of workers who want to form a union. Labor leaders said that after receiving those lists, owners often fired union supporters or pressed many to withdraw their names from the petition, bringing the number below the requisite 30 percent mark for a union to be recognized.
新法律的一个条款也许能帮助工人组织工会，该条款禁止劳动部向工厂主提供签名要成立工会的那30%的工人的名单。劳工领导者称，工厂主拿到这一名单后经常会开除支持工会的工人，或是强迫不少人取消自己在请求上的签名，将签名数降到所需的30%以下，使工会不能得到认可。
Some labor leaders expressed concern that government officials would still give the names to factory owners, perhaps because of collusion or bribes.
一些劳工领导担心，政府官员仍会把这些名单交给工厂主，可能由于他们与工厂主串通或接受了工厂主的贿赂。
“The government says this will make it easier for workers to organize,” said Babul Akhter, the president of the Bangladesh Garment and Industrial Workers Federation. “That’s not true.”
孟加拉国服装与产业工人联合会(Bangladesh Garment and Industrial Workers Federation)主席巴布尔·阿赫塔尔(Babul Akhter）说，“政府称这将让工人成立工会变得更容易。其实不然。”
Mr. Akhter praised the legislation for adding some protections on fire and building safety: it strengthens requirements for permits when a factory adds floors.
阿赫塔尔称赞了新法律针对火灾和建筑安全增加了保护措施：新法加强了工厂申请增盖楼层时的许可要求。
Human Rights Watch said, however, that the new law would make unionizing harder. It criticized the legislation for adding more industrial sectors, including hospitals, where workers would not be permitted to form unions. The group noted that workers in Bangladesh’s important export processing zones would remain legally unable to unionize.
然而，人权观察(Human Rights Watch)认为，新法律将会让成立工会变得更困难。该组织批评新法律增加了更多行业部门，包括医院，那里的工人不被允许成立工会。该组织指出，孟加拉国主要出口加工区的工人依然不能合法成立工会。
In addition, the government would be empowered to stop a strike if it would cause “serious hardship to the community” or be “prejudicial to the national interest.” And workers at any factory owned by foreigners or established in collaboration with foreigners would be barred from striking during the operation’s first three years.
除此之外，新法会赋予政府制止罢工的权力，如果罢工会“给社会带来严重影响”或者“不利于国家利益”的话。而且，在外商独资或是与外商合资的工厂，工人被禁止在工厂运营的头三年中进行罢工。
“The Bangladesh government desperately wants to move the spotlight away from the Rana Plaza disaster, so it’s not surprising it is now trying to show that it belatedly cares about workers’ rights,” said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch. “This would be good news if the new law fully met international standards, but the sad reality is that the government has consciously limited basic workers’ rights while exposing workers to continued risks and exploitation.”
人权观察亚洲分部的副主任菲尔·罗伯逊(Phil Robertson)说，“孟加拉国政府迫切需要将聚光灯从拉纳广场的灾难上转移开，所以现在试图显示其对工人权利迟来的关心，这并不令人吃惊。如果新法律能完全符合国际标准，也许是件好事。然而，令人悲哀的现实是，政府在有意限制工人的基本权利，继续让工人面临风险、遭受剥削。”
Under the new law, unions would need government approval before they could receive technical, health, safety or financial support from other countries.
新法律规定，工会在接受来自其他国家的技术、健康、安全或经济支持之前，需要获得政府的批准。
An Obama administration official said various agencies were seeking to obtain the exact language of the new law in order to study it.
一位奥巴马政府官员称，政府各部门正寻求获得新法律的准确表述语言，以便进行研究。
Roy Ramesh Chandra, a powerful Bangladeshi labor leader, said the legislation might not have done enough to persuade Europe not to suspend trade preferences or to get Washington to reinstate such preferences.
孟加拉国有影响力的劳工领导人罗伊·拉梅什·钱德拉(Roy Ramesh Chandra)称，新立法可能不足以说服欧洲放弃暂停贸易优惠待遇，或者说服华盛顿恢复这类待遇。