From the moment the bill to ban genetically engineered crops on the island of Hawaii was introduced in May 2013, it garnered more vocal support than any the County Council here had ever considered, even the perennially popular bids to decriminalize marijuana.
自从2013年5月首次提出在夏威夷岛上禁止转基因作物的法案以来，它收获的声援远多于当地县议会(County Council)的预想，甚至比多年来一直很有市场的大麻合法化议案呼声更高。
Public hearings were dominated by recitations of the ills often attributed to genetically modified organisms, or G.M.O.s: cancer in rats, a rise in childhood allergies, out-of-control superweeds, genetic contamination, overuse of pesticides, the disappearance of butterflies and bees.
在公开听证会上，转基因生物（genetically modified organisms，简称G.M.O.s）往往带来诸多弊病的说法占据了主导地位，从诱发大鼠发生癌症、小儿过敏增加，到导致失控的超级杂草、遗传污染、农药的过度使用、蝴蝶和蜜蜂的消失等等不一而足。
Like some others on the nine-member Council, Greggor Ilagan was not even sure at the outset of the debate exactly what genetically modified organisms were: living things whose DNA has been altered, often with the addition of a gene from a distant species, to produce a desired trait. But he could see why almost all of his colleagues had been persuaded of the virtue of turning the island into what the bill’s proponents called a “G.M.O.-free oasis.”
格雷戈尔·伊拉甘(Greggor Ilagan)是议会的九名成员之一。与他的同僚一样，在这场争论初一爆发时，他甚至还不清楚转基因生物到底是什么东西。（转基因技术是指，人为地改变某种生物的DNA，通常是添加了来自亲缘关系较远的其他物种的某个基因，以期使其产生所需性状。）但他很能理解为什么他的同事们几乎都已经被该法案支持者口中的“无转基因生物绿洲”所打动。
“You just type ‘G.M.O.’ and everything you see is negative,” he told his staff. Opposing the ban also seemed likely to ruin anyone’s re-election prospects.
“只要在网页的搜索栏中键入‘转基因’，你所看到的铺天盖地都是负面信息，”他这样对工作人员说。反对这一禁令很有可能会毁掉一名议员的连任前景。
Yet doubts nagged at the councilman, who was serving his first two-year term. The island’s papaya farmers said that an engineered variety had saved their fruit from a devastating disease. A study reporting that a diet of G.M.O. corn caused tumors in rats, mentioned often by the ban’s supporters, turned out to have been thoroughly debunked.
然而，重重疑虑深深地困扰着这位仍处于第一任两年任期中的议员。他曾听岛上种植番木瓜的农民说过，正因为种植了经基因工程改造的品种，他的果园才从毁灭性的病害之下幸免于难。而经常被该禁令的支持者挂在口头上的，称食用转基因玉米可导致大鼠发生肿瘤的研究报告已经被证明是一场拙劣的骗局。
And University of Hawaii biologists urged the Council to consider the global scientific consensus, which holds that existing genetically engineered crops are no riskier than others, and have provided some tangible benefits.
夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)的生物学家敦促该议会应将全球科学界的共识纳入考虑。科学家们普遍认为，现有的转基因作物并不比其他作物风险更大，且它们已经提供了一些实实在在的收益。
“Are we going to just ignore them?” Mr. Ilagan wondered.
“难道我们要对此视而不见？”伊拉甘先生十分纳闷。
Urged on by Margaret Wille, the ban’s sponsor, who spoke passionately of the need to “act before it’s too late,” the Council declined to form a task force to look into such questions before its November vote. But Mr. Ilagan, 27, sought answers on his own. In the process, he found himself, like so many public and business leaders worldwide, wrestling with a subject in which popular beliefs often do not reflect scientific evidence.
该禁令的支持者，玛格丽特·威尔(Margaret Wille)激情澎湃地宣称，我们需要“马上采取行动，否则会追悔莫及”。在她的力促下，议会拒绝在11月份的投票之前成立特别工作组来对上述问题进行调查。但27岁的伊拉甘先生决定依靠自己的力量去寻求答案。在探索过程中，他发现，与全世界的众多公共和商业领袖一样，他对转基因问题有所曲解。起码，单就这一议题来说，通俗的观念往往并不能反映科学的证据。
At stake is how to grow healthful food most efficiently, at a time when a warming world and a growing population make that goal all the more urgent.
如何最有效地种植健康的食品作物已成为当务之急，在全球变暖日益加剧、人口不断增长的今天，人们对这一目标的追求尤为迫切。
Scientists, who have come to rely on liberals in political battles over stem-cell research, climate change and the teaching of evolution, have been dismayed to find themselves at odds with their traditional allies on this issue. Some compare the hostility to G.M.O.s to the rejection of climate-change science, except with liberal opponents instead of conservative ones.
在关于干细胞研究、气候变化和演化论教学等方面的政治斗争中，科学家们向来以自由党为依托。但这次他们惊惶地发现，传统盟友们正与自己背道而驰。有人将人们对转基因生物的敌意与对气候变化科学的排斥相提并论，并指出其差别只在于持反对意见的是自由党还是保守党。
“These are my people, they’re lefties, I’m with them on almost everything,” said Michael Shintaku, a plant pathologist at the University of Hawaii at Hilo, who testified several times against the bill. “It hurts.”
“这些左派一直都站在我这边，我们对几乎所有议题的观点都一致，”夏威夷大学希罗分校(University of Hawaii at Hilo)的植物病理学家、多次为反对该法案作证的迈克尔·吉田(Michael Shintaku)说：“这真令人伤心。”
But, supporters of the ban warned, scientists had not always correctly assessed the health and environmental risks of new technology. “Remember DDT?” one proponent demanded.
但是，该禁令的支持者警告称，科学家们在评估新技术的健康和环境风险时，未必能确保万无一失。“还记得滴滴涕(DDT)么？”一名支持者质问道。
Ms. Wille’s bill would ban the cultivation of any genetically engineered crop on the island, with the exception of the two already grown there: corn recently planted by an island dairy to feed its cows, and papaya. Field tests to study new G.M.O. crops would also be prohibited. Penalties would be $1,000 per day.
威尔女士的法案将禁止在岛上种植任何转基因作物，只有已在当地种植的两种作物例外：一种是本岛乳业近期种植用以饲喂奶牛的玉米，另一种是番木瓜。研究新转基因作物的实地试验也将一起被禁止。罚金可达每天1000美元。
Like three-quarters of the voters on Hawaii Island, known as the Big Island, Mr. Ilagan supported President Obama in the 2012 election. When he took office himself a month later, after six years in the Air National Guard, he planned to focus on squatters, crime prevention and the inauguration of a bus line in his district on the island’s eastern rim.
与夏威夷岛（又称大岛[Big Island]）上四分之三的选民一样，伊拉甘在2012年的总统大选中支持奥巴马。一个月后，他结束了为期六年的空军国民警卫队(Air National Guard)生涯，到议员办公室走马上任。他的施政方针侧重于治理非法侵占土地和预防犯罪，并计划在岛东缘他的辖区内开通一条公交线路。
He had also promised himself that he would take a stance on all topics, never registering a “kanalua” vote — the Hawaiian term for “with reservation.”
他还对自己立下誓言：在所有议题上均明确地表明立场，绝不投kanalua（夏威夷语，意为“有所保留”）票。
But with the G.M.O. bill, he often despaired of assembling the information he needed to definitively decide. Every time he answered one question, it seemed, new ones arose. Popular opinion masqueraded convincingly as science, and the science itself was hard to grasp. People who spoke as experts lacked credentials, and G.M.O. critics discounted those with credentials as being pawns of biotechnology companies.
但在与转基因法案相关的工作中，他常常对整合所需信息并作出最终的决定感到绝望。似乎每次他好不容易回答了一个问题，马上就又有新的问题冒出来。大众舆论乔装打扮成科学的模样，而科学本身又难以捉摸。身为专家的人讲话缺乏公信力，有公信力的发言人又被反转基因人士们斥为生物技术公司的门下走狗。
“It takes so much time to find out what’s true,” he complained.
“有太多时间都花在辨认何为真何为假之上，”他抱怨道。
So many emails arrived in support of the ban that, as a matter of environmental responsibility, the Council clerks suspended the custom of printing them out for each Council member. But Mr. Ilagan had only to consult his inbox to be reminded of the prevailing opinion.
议会的收件箱里每天都塞满了对该法案表示支持的电子邮件，以至出于保护环境的考虑，议会职员不得不暂停为各位议会成员打印这些邮件。但伊拉甘只是将其作为参考，好了解群众中最普遍的观点。
“Do the right thing,” one Chicago woman wrote, “or no one will want to take a toxic tour of your poisoned paradise.”
“请务必做正确的事，”一位芝加哥妇女写道，“天堂再美，一旦受到污染，也不会有人愿意来一场中毒之旅。”
Distrust on the Left
不信任左派
Margaret Wille, 66, had the island’s best interests at heart when she proposed the ban, Mr. Ilagan knew.
伊拉甘明白，现年66岁的玛格丽特·威尔提出这项禁令，考虑的是为该岛谋求最大的利益。
She majored in cultural anthropology at Bennington College in Vermont and practiced public advocacy law in Maine before moving a decade ago to the island, where her brothers once owned a health food store.
威尔女士最初在佛蒙特州的本宁顿学院(Bennington College)攻读文化人类学专业，其后又在缅因州从事法律的公共宣传工作。大约十年前，她移居到这个她兄弟曾经开办过健康食品商店的岛上来。
And her bill, like much anti-G.M.O. action, was inspired by distrust of the seed-producing biotechnology companies, which had backed a state measure to prevent local governments from regulating their activity.
与很多反转基因活动类似，她之所以提出该法案也是因为不信任生产种子的生物技术公司——这些公司仗着州立举措撑腰，各类运作都逃脱了地方政府规范的约束。
That bill, which passed the State Senate but stalled in the House, appeared largely aimed at other Hawaiian islands, which were used by companies like Monsanto, Syngenta and Dow as a nursery for seeds. On Kauai, for instance, activists had been talking about how to limit the companies’ pesticide use.
该法案已在州参议院(State Senate)获得通过，却在众议院陷入了僵局。它主要针对的是被孟山都(Monsanto)、先正达(Syngenta)和陶氏化学(Dow)这类公司用作育种苗圃的其他夏威夷岛屿。例如，活动人士们一直在谈论如何限制上述公司在考艾岛上使用农药。
The companies had no corporate presence here on the Big Island, which lacks the large parcels of land they preferred. Still, Ms. Wille said at a “March Against Monsanto” rally last spring, if the island allowed farmers to grow genetically modified crops, the companies could gain a foothold. “This represents nothing less than a takeover of our island,” she told the crowd. “There’s a saying, ‘If you control the seed, you control the food; if you control the food, you control the people.’ ”
目前，这些公司尚未将企业扩展至大岛，因为这里不具备深受他们偏爱的大片土地。尽管如此，威尔女士在去年春天召开的一场“反孟山都游行”(March Against Monsanto)集会上称，如果该岛也允许农民种植转基因作物，就足以令这些公司站稳脚跟，“这无异于放任他们吞并我们的岛屿，”她对群众们说：“有这么一种说法：‘如果你控制了种子，你就控制了粮食；你控制了粮食，民众自然也在你的手心之中。’ ”
Ms. Wille, chairwoman of the Council’s Agriculture Committee, warned her colleagues that what mattered was not the amount of food produced, but its quality and the sustainability of how it was grown.
威尔女士是该议会农业委员会(Agriculture Committee)的主席，她提醒同事们说，粮食产量并不是最重要的问题，重要的是质量及生产的可持续性。
“My focus is on protecting our soil and the farms and properties that are not G.M.O.,” she said, noting also that there was a marketing opportunity for non-G.M.O. products.
“我关注的是保护我们的土壤、农场以及非转基因的资产，”她还指出，这同时也能为非转基因产品提供营销机会。
Such sentiments echoed well beyond Hawaii, as Mr. Ilagan’s early research confirmed.
这种情绪得到了回应远远超越了夏威夷的地域范围，伊拉甘先生的前期研究也证实了这一点。
College students, eco-conscious shoppers and talk show celebrities like Oprah Winfrey, Dr. Oz and Bill Maher warned against consuming food made with genetically modified ingredients. Mr. Maher’s audience, in turn, recently hissed at a commentator who defended genetic modification as merely an extension of traditional breeding.
大学生、具有环保意识的顾客或者像奥普拉·温弗里(Oprah Winfrey)、奥兹博士(Dr. Oz)及比尔·马厄(Bill Maher)这些脱口秀红人都警告人们不要食用以转基因原料制成的食品。受其影响，前些日子马厄先生的观众对一名评论员大发嘘声，只因为他为遗传修饰辩护，称其只是传统育种的一种延伸。
New applications of the technology, so far used mostly on corn, soybeans, cotton, canola and sugar beets to make them more resistant to weeds and pests, have drawn increased scrutiny. A recent Organic Consumers Association bulletin, for instance, pictures the first genetically modified animal to be submitted for regulatory approval (a faster-growing salmon) jumping from a river to attack a bear, with the caption “No Frankenfish!” In a 2013 New York Times poll, three-quarters of Americans surveyed expressed concern about G.M.O.s in their food, with most of those worried about health risks.
迄今为止，这项技术多用于增强玉米、大豆、棉花、油菜和甜菜等作物对杂草和虫害的耐受性，但其所受到的审查正日趋严格。例如，在美国有机消费者协会(Organic Consumers Association)近期的一份公告上，有一张以《滚开，科学怪鱼》(No Frankenfish)为图说的图片，描述了第一种提交监管部门批准的转基因动物（一种生长速度很快的鲑鱼）从河里跳出来攻击大熊的场面。《纽约时报》于2013年进行的一次民意调查显示，四分之三的受访美国人表示他们对食品中的转基因问题十分关注，其中大部分人都很担心此类产品的健康风险。
As Ms. Wille’s bill was debated here throughout 2013, activists elsewhere collected 354,000 signatures for a petition asserting that G.M.O.s endanger public health. In the Philippines, protesters, citing safety concerns, ripped up a test field of rice genetically engineered to address Vitamin A deficiency among the world’s poor. A new children’s book turned its heroine into a crusader against genetic modification: “These fruits and vegetables are not natural,” she declares.
在整个2013年中，这里的人们就威尔女士的法案讨论得如火如荼；其他地区的活动家们也不甘示弱，他们为一份声言转基因作物会危及公众健康的请愿书收集了35.4万个签名。在菲律宾，抗议者以安全性为由，摧毁了一片以解决全世界穷困人群中的维生素A缺乏症问题为宗旨的转基因水稻试验田。一本新出版的儿童读物干脆将女主人公塑造成了反对基因修饰的十字军斗士：“这些水果和蔬菜都不自然，”她断言。
And bills were proposed in some 20 states to require “G.M.O.” labels on foods with ingredients made from genetically engineered crops (about three-quarters of processed foods now have such ingredients, mostly corn syrup, corn oil and soy meal and sugar).
在约20个州中都有人提出法案，要求给所有含转基因作物成分的食品加贴“转基因”标签（现有的加工食品中约有四分之三含有此类成分，主要为玉米糖浆、玉米油、大豆粉和糖等）。
The legislation is backed by the fast-growing organic food industry, which sees such labeling as giving it a competitive advantage. It has also become a rallying cry among activists who want to change the industrial food system. Rachel Maddow declared the narrow failure of ballot initiatives to require G.M.O. labeling in California and Washington a “big loss for liberal politics.”
这项法规得到了正在蓬勃发展之中的有机食品产业的支持，他们认为该标签将赋予他们竞争优势。希望改变工业化食品体系的活动家们也将其作为战斗口号。雷切尔·玛多（Rachel Maddow，美国电视主持人、时事评论员和作家——译注）宣称，要求加贴转基因标签的创制权投票(ballot initiatives)在加州和华盛顿州受挫是“自由主义政治的巨大损失”。
Whole Foods has pledged that by 2018 it will replace some foods containing genetically modified ingredients and label others; signs in Trader Joe’s proclaim, “No G.M.O.s Sold Here.” General Mills announced last week that it would stop using genetically modified ingredients in its Cheerios.
美国全食超市公司(Whole Foods)承诺在2018年前将替换掉一部分含转基因成分的食品，并为剩余产品加贴标签；在乔氏商店（Trader Joe，美国知名连锁超市）中，也有这样的标识，声称：“这里不销售转基因食品。”美国通用磨坊食品公司(General Mills)则于上周宣布，它将停止在其麦圈(Cheerios)食品中使用转基因成分。
But the groundswell against genetically modified food has rankled many scientists, who argue that opponents of G.M.O.s have distorted the risks associated with them and underplayed the risks of failing to try to use the technology to improve how food is grown. Wading into a debate that has more typically pitted activists against industry, some have argued that opposition from even small pockets of an American elite influences investment in research and the deployment of genetically modified crops, particularly in the developing world, where hunger raises the stakes.
但是，这股反转基因食品的风潮激怒了许多科学家，他们驳斥道，转基因的反对者们曲解了相关风险，对于未能使用该技术来促进食品作物种植可能造成的风险却一笔带过。有人指出，如果美国精英阶层拒绝购买此类商品，所涉金额虽不过寥寥，却足以影响到投资转基因作物研究和部署的大格局。在这场豪赌中，发展中国家首当其冲，饥饿问题使赌注进一步攀升。只可惜这样的辩论往往招致活动家们对该产业更加反感。
“Just as many on the political right discount the broad scientific consensus that human activities contribute to global warming, many progressive advocacy groups disregard, reject or ignore the decades of scientific studies demonstrating the safety and wide-reaching benefits” of genetically engineered crops, Pamela Ronald, a professor of plant pathology at the University of California, Davis, wrote on the blog of the nonprofit Biology Fortified.
加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的植物病理学教授帕梅拉·罗纳德(Pamela Ronald)在一篇关于非营利性组织“生物强化”(Biology Fortified)的博客中这样写道：“正如许多人出于政治利益而对‘人类活动导致全球变暖’这一科学界的普遍共识毫不买账，许多激进的倡导组织不约而同地选择罔顾、拒绝或刻意忽视这一事实：数十年的科学研究早已证实了转基因作物的安全性及其广泛效益。”
And other scientists, including two Nobel Prize winners, wrote an opinion article for the journal Science last fall titled “Standing Up for G.M.O.s.”
两位诺贝尔奖得主及其他科学家也在去年秋天为《科学》(Science)杂志撰写了题为《捍卫转基因生物》(Standing Up for G.M.O.s.)的评论文章。
As he traversed the island and the Internet, Mr. Ilagan agreed with constituents that there was good reason to suspect that companies like Monsanto would place profit above public safety. He, too, wished for more healthful food to be grown more sustainably.
伊拉甘对该岛的民情进行了调查，也在网上反复搜索过，他认同选民们确有充足的理由去怀疑像孟山都之类的公司可能会将销售利润置于公共安全之上。他同样希望能够以更具可持续性的方式种植更加健康的食品作物。
But even a national ban on such crops, it seemed to him, would do little to solve the problems of an industrial food system that existed long before their invention. Nor was it likely to diminish the market power of the “Big Ag” companies, which also dominate sales of seeds that are not genetically modified, and the pesticides used on both. The arguments for rejecting them, he concluded, ultimately relied on the premise that they are unsafe.
但在他看来，即使对此类作物施以全国性禁令，也基本无益于解决早在其发明之前就已存在于工业化食品体系中的那些问题，或削弱Big Ag（大规模产业化农业，有时特指孟山都等农业公司组成的国际性联盟——译注）公司的市场支配力，因为这些公司在非转基因种子的销售中也占据了主导地位，并对这两种作物都使用杀虫剂。伊拉甘先生的结论是，人们对转基因作物的排斥，归根结底是建立在认为它们不够安全这一前提之上的。
Making up his mind about that alone would prove difficult enough.
能作出这样的结论，本身已非易事。
The Rainbow Papaya
彩虹木瓜
The papaya farmers appeared, pacing restlessly, outside Mr. Ilagan’s office shortly after Ms. Wille introduced the proposal for a G.M.O. ban in May.
5月，就在威尔女士向公众介绍了禁止转基因生物的提案之后不久，种植番木瓜的果农们出现在伊拉甘先生的办公室外，不安地踱来踱去。
There were only around 200 of them on an island with a population of about 185,000, but many lived in his district. They wanted to be sure he understood that genetically modified papayas, the only commercially grown G.M.O. fruit in the United States, account for three-quarters of the 30 million pounds harvested annually here.
在这个人口约达18.5万人的岛上，只有约200名农民，其中大多数都生活在伊拉甘先生的辖区。这些农民希望伊拉甘先生能认识到，转基因番木瓜，这种在美国唯一获得商业化种植的转基因水果，在此地3000万磅的水果年收获量中占到了四分之三。
“They’re treating us like we’re criminals,” said Ross Sibucao, the head of the growers’ association.
“他们把我们当成罪犯，”果农协会的负责人罗斯·苏木(Ross Sibucao)说。
Another Council member favored razing every genetically modified papaya tree on the island.
另一位议会成员则倾向于夷平岛上的每一棵转基因番木瓜树。
But under Ms. Wille’s bill, the modified papaya, known as the Rainbow, was grandfathered in, as long as farmers registered with the county and paid a $100 annual fee.
但转基因番木瓜（又称“彩虹木瓜”）在威尔女士的法案提出前就已经种植了，因此并不受这条新法规的约束，只要果农们在县里登记并支付100美元的年费即可。
“You’re exempted,” Mr. Ilagan reassured Mr. Sibucao.
“你们得到了豁免权，”伊拉甘宽慰苏木。
Even so, Mr. Sibucao replied, the bill would stigmatize any genetically modified food, making the Rainbow harder to sell.
苏木回答道，即便如此，该法案还是丑化了所有的转基因食品，这会影响彩虹木瓜的销路。
Many of the island’s papaya farmers, descendants of immigrants who came to work on sugar plantations, have links to the Philippines, as does Mr. Ilagan, who immigrated from there as a child. As the plantations faded in the 1980s, some began growing papayas. But after an outbreak of Papaya ringspot virus in the mid-’90s, only the Rainbow, endowed with a gene from the virus itself that effectively gave it immunity, had saved the crop, they told him.
岛上的番木瓜果农大多是来此地糖料种植园务工的移民者的后裔，他们都有菲律宾血统，譬如伊拉甘先生就是在童年时移民过来的。20世纪80年代，随着种植园逐渐销声匿迹，一些人开始种植番木瓜。果农们告诉伊拉甘，自从90年代中期番木瓜环斑病毒爆发后，只有被赋予了病毒自身基因的彩虹木瓜获得了有效免疫力，从而将整个番木瓜种植行业从灭顶之灾中拯救出来。
If Mr. Ilagan worried about big biotechnology companies, the farmers told him, the Rainbow should reassure him. Developed primarily by scientists at academic institutions, it was a model for how the technology could benefit small farmers. Its lead developer, the Hawaiian-born Dennis Gonsalves, was, along with others on the team, awarded the 2002 Humboldt Prize for the most significant contribution to United States agriculture in five years.
他们还说，如果伊拉甘对大型生物技术公司存在顾虑，彩虹木瓜应该能让他把心放回肚子里。这一最初由科学家们在学术机构中研发的品种可以作为一个范例，展示技术如何为小农场主提供了效益。其主要研发人员，夏威夷土生土长的丹尼斯·冈萨弗斯(Dennis Gonsalves)与团队中的其他成员因为在五年间为美国农业做出了最杰出的贡献，而一同荣获了2002年的洪堡奖(Humboldt Prize)。
Japanese as well as American regulators had approved the papaya. And because the virus was spread by insects, which growers had sought to control with pesticide sprays, the Rainbow had reduced the use of chemicals.
日本和美国的监管机构均已对这种番木瓜绿灯放行。此外，由于番木瓜环斑病毒经昆虫传播，果农们过去曾试图通过喷洒农药来控制它们，种植彩虹木瓜后，这类化学品的使用也有所减少。
Mr. Ilagan took their point. “If we as a body pass this,” he said, thinking aloud at the second public hearing in July, “it shows we think all G.M.O.s are wrong.”
伊拉甘接受了他们的观点。“如果议会作为一个法人主体批准了这项法案，”他在7月份举行的第二次公开听证会上自言自语道，“那就说明我们认为所有的转基因作物都一无是处。”
Superweeds and Rats
超级杂草和大鼠
Instructed by the chairman not to applaud, the residents who packed the County Council chamber in Kona on July 3 erupted in frequent silent cheers, signaled by a collective waving of hands and wiggling of fingers.
7月3日，位于可纳(Kona)的县议会议事厅中人头攒动。由于主席指示不要鼓掌，满室的居民只有通过集体招手示意的方式频频爆发出无声的欢呼。
A few, like Richard Ha, an island farmer who hoped that the diseases afflicting his bananas and tomatoes might be solved with a genetic modification, were there to testify against the ban. Ranchers also were opposed; they wanted the option to grow the genetically modified corn and soybeans for cattle feed that are common elsewhere.
有少数大岛农民，如理查德·哈(Richard Ha)等出庭作证反对这项禁令，因为他们希望能通过遗传修饰来解决一直祸害其香蕉和西红柿产业的病害。牧场主们也表示反对；其他地区普遍使用转基因玉米和大豆作为牛饲料，他们希望也能保留这项权利。
But a vast majority were there in support. Some were members of G.M.O. Free Hawaii Island, a mix of food activists and entrepreneurs, who argued that the organisms were bad for human health, the island’s ecosystem and eco-conscious business. Others, veterans of the campaign for a partial ban already in place here, reminded the Council of the precedents for Ms. Wille’s bill: In 2008, organic Kona coffee farmers successfully lobbied for a ban on any cultivation of genetically modified coffee. The presence of a G.M.O. crop, they argued, would hurt their reputation and their ability to charge a premium.
但在场的绝大多数人都表示支持。其中有一部分人是夏威夷岛无G.M.O.组织（G.M.O. Free Hawaii Island，一个食品行业活动家和企业家组成的组织）的成员，他们主张，转基因生物对人体健康、岛上的生态系统和生态意识事业均有害无益。其他一些人则已经在反转运动中久经沙场，此地针对转基因的一项局部禁令就是他们的战果之一。他们提醒议会，威尔女士的法案不乏先例：2008年，种植有机可纳咖啡的农民就成功地游说当局颁布禁令，禁止种植各类转基因咖啡，因为他们称转基因咖啡作物的存在会损害他们的声誉，并影响他们为产品博取高价。
At the same time, the county had banned the cultivation of genetically engineered taro, a root vegetable cultivated for centuries in Hawaii.
与此同时，该县已禁止了转基因芋头（芋头是一种已在夏威夷种植了数百年的根茎类蔬菜）的种植。
In the three minutes allotted to each speaker at the July hearing, some told personal tales of all manner of illness, including children’s allergies, cured after going on a “non-G.M.O.” diet. One woman took the microphone “on behalf of Mother Earth and all sentient beings.” Nomi Carmona encouraged Council members to visit the website of her group, Babes Against Biotech, where analyses of Monsanto’s campaign contributions are intermingled with pictures of bikini-clad women.
7月的听证会为每名发言者分配了三分钟的时间，有人讲述了个人经历，说是小儿过敏等很多疾病在坚持吃“不含转基因”的食物后获得了痊愈。一名妇女表示自己是在“为地球母亲和众生万物代言”。诺米·卡尔莫纳(Nomi Carmona)鼓励议会成员们访问她所在组织的网页“美女对决生物技术”(Babes Against Biotech)。在这些网页上，他们在孟山都竞选献金分析中混入了比基尼女郎的图片以达到博人眼球的目的。
Many of the most impassioned speakers came from Mr. Ilagan’s district of Puna, known for its anti-establishment spirit. “These chemical companies think they’re going to win,” one woman said. “Hell, no, they’re never going to win here.”
最慷慨激昂的发言者大多来自伊拉甘辖区内的普纳(Puna)地区，该地区一直以其反体制精神闻名。“这些化工企业以为他们会赢，”一位妇女说。“见鬼去吧！他们永远休想在这里得逞。”
Organic farmers worried that their crops would be contaminated also made an impression on the councilman, though he felt that the actress Roseanne Barr, who owns an organic macadamia nut farm here, could have been kinder to the papaya farmers in the room.
担心自己的作物受到污染的有机农场主也试图引起议员们的重视。但伊拉甘觉得，在此地拥有一个有机夏威夷果农场的女演员罗丝安妮·巴尔(Roseanne Barr)本应对议事厅中的番木瓜果农更宽容一些。
“Everybody here is very giving,” she had told them. “They will bend over backwards to help you burn those papayas and grow something decent.”
“这里的每个人都十分乐于助人，”她这样对他们说：“他们一定会不遗余力地帮你烧光这些番木瓜，好种点像样的东西。”
More striking to Mr. Ilagan was the warning of Derek Brewer, 29, an Army veteran who served in Iraq and Afghanistan before coming to Hawaii to help found an eco-hostel. “We don’t fully understand genetics,” Mr. Brewer said, his dark hair tied back in a ponytail. “Once you change something like this, there is no taking it back.”
更令伊拉甘深感震撼的是德里克·布鲁尔(Derek Brewer)发出的警告。“我们对遗传学还没有透彻的理解，”布鲁尔现年29岁，深色的头发扎成一个马尾。他曾在伊拉克和阿富汗服役，退伍后来到夏威夷参与建设了一家生态旅馆。“一旦做出这种改变，就再也不可能恢复原状了。”
What really stuck with Mr. Ilagan were the descriptions of tumorous rats. Reading testimony submitted before the hearing, he had blanched at grotesque pictures of the animals fed Monsanto’s corn, modified with a gene from bacteria to tolerate an herbicide. According to the French researcher who performed the study, they developed more tumors and died earlier than those in the control group.
但真正令伊拉甘挥之不去的是关于患肿瘤的大鼠的描述。在阅读听证会之前提交的证词时，他被数张诡异的动物照片惊得脸色煞白，据称，这些动物均是采用孟山都的转基因玉米（其中转入了可耐受除草剂的细菌基因）饲喂而来。据完成该研究的法国科学家称，与对照组相比，肿瘤在这些动物身上更为常见，它们的寿命也有所缩短。
“Are we all going to get cancer?” Mr. Ilagan wondered.
“难不成我们都会得癌症？”伊拉甘十分纳罕。
Sifting Through Claims
去伪存真
The next week, when his legislative assistant alerted him that the rat study encountered near-universal scorn from scientists after its release in autumn 2012, doubt about much of what Mr. Ilagan had heard began to prick at his mind.
其后的一周，伊拉甘的法务助理提醒他，那项关于大鼠的研究在2012年秋季发表后，科学界普遍对其不屑一顾。伊拉甘对自己道听途说的很多事情都产生了怀疑，这令他如坐针毡。
“Come to find out, the kind of rats they used would get tumors anyway,” he told his staff. “And the sample size was too small for any conclusive results.”
“人们后来发现，事实上该研究使用的那种大鼠无论怎样都会发生肿瘤，”他告诉他的工作人员。“而且研究样本量太小，不足以得出定论。”
Sensitive to the accusation that her bill was antiscience, Ms. Wille had circulated material to support it. But in almost every case, Mr. Ilagan and his staff found evidence that seemed to undermine the claims.
法案具有反科学性这一指控令威尔女士非常敏感，于是她四处散发各种支持资料。但在几乎所有的案例中，伊拉甘及其工作人员都会发现有证据显示其无法自圆其说。
A report, in an obscure Russian journal, about hamsters that lost the ability to reproduce after three generations as a result of a diet of genetically modified soybeans had been contradicted by many other studies and deemed bogus by mainstream scientists.
一本不起眼的俄罗斯杂志上发表的一项报告称，在连续三代食用转基因大豆后，仓鼠丧失了生育能力。然而这与其他许多研究相矛盾，且主流科学界认为该研究存在弄虚作假行为。
Mr. Ilagan discounted the correlations between the rise in childhood allergies and the consumption of G.M.O.s, cited by Ms. Wille and others, after reading of the common mistake of confusing correlation for causation. (One graph, illustrating the weakness of conclusions based on correlation, charted the lock-step rise in organic food sales and autism diagnoses.)
威尔夫人等人引述的资料称小儿过敏率的上升与食用转基因生物相关，但在发现这些资料中存在因果关系混淆之类常见错误后，伊拉甘认为这种关联并不可信。（以下图表显示有机食品的销售与自闭症诊断量呈同步上升。该图说明了仅仅基于相关性就得出结论的弱点所在。）
Butterflies were disappearing, but Mr. Ilagan learned that it was not a toxin produced by modified plants that harmed them, as he had thought. Instead, the herbicide used in conjunction with some genetically modified crops (as well as some that were not) meant the milkweed on which they hatched was no longer found on most Midwestern farms.
蝴蝶确实正在消失，伊拉甘曾以为是转基因植物产生的毒素伤害了它们，但实情并非如此。真正的原因是：人们在种植转基因作物（以及某些非转基因作物）时使用了除草剂，使得乳草属植物从中西部的大多数农场中绝迹，而蝴蝶的孵化正依赖于这些植物。
He heard many times that there were no independent studies of the safety of genetically modified organisms. But Biofortified, which received no funding from industry, listed more than a hundred such studies, including a 2010 comprehensive review sponsored by the European Union, that found “no scientific evidence associating G.M.O.s with higher risks for the environment or for food and feed safety than conventional plants and organisms.” It echoed similar statements by the World Health Organization, the National Academy of Sciences, the Royal Society of Medicine and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
他也曾屡次听说人们尚未就转基因生物的安全性进行过任何独立的研究。但是，根据“生物强化”(Biofortified)这个从未接受过该行业任何资助的组织的资料，此类研究已经达到100多项，包括2010年由欧盟赞助的全面审查。该审查发现，“并无任何科学证据可证明与转基因相关的环境或食品/饲料安全风险高于传统植物和生物。”该结果与世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)、美国国家科学院(National Academy of Sciences)、英国皇家药学会(Royal Society of Medicine)以及美国科学促进会(American Association for the Advancement of Science)发布的类似声明遥相呼应。
A blog post on the website of NPR, a news source Mr. Ilagan trusted, cataloged what it called “Top Five Myths of Genetically Modified Seeds, Busted.” No. 1 was a thing he had long believed: “Seeds from G.M.O.s are sterile.”
NPR（National Public Radio，美国全国公共广播电台）是伊拉甘认可的可信新闻来源。在其网站上题为《攻击转基因种子的五大谣言得以破灭》的博客中，“转基因生物种子不育”名列谣言榜之首，伊拉甘自己也曾对其深信不疑。
One of the more alarming effects of G.M.O.s that Ms. Wille had cited was suicides among farmers in India, purportedly driven into debt by the high cost of patented, genetically modified cotton seeds.
威尔女士所引述的资料中列举了转基因生物导致的众多更可怕的后果，其中最令人触目惊心的案例为印度农民的自杀事件。据称，惨案发生的原因是农民们无力偿还因购买具有专利的转基因棉花种子而造成的高额债务。
Biotechnology companies, she said, “come in and give it away cheap, and then raise prices.”
她说，生物技术公司十分善玩这么一套把戏，“用几乎相当于白送的价格将人诓入毂中，然后再抬高价格。”
Monsanto’s cotton, engineered with a gene from bacteria to ward off certain insects, had “pushed 270,000 farmers to suicide” since the company started selling it in India in 2002, the activist Vandana Shiva said in a Honolulu speech Ms. Wille attended.
在于檀香山举行，且有威尔女士出席的一场演讲中，活动家纨妲娜·希瓦(Vandana Shiva)说，孟山都的棉花中带有通过遗传工程从细菌中转入的基因，用以防止特定昆虫的蚕食。自从该公司在2002年开始在印度销售这种棉花，已经“迫使27万名农民自杀”。
But in Nature, a leading academic journal, Mr. Ilagan found an article with the subhead “GM Cotton Has Driven Farmers to Suicide: False.”
但在世界领先的学术期刊《自然》(Nature)上，伊拉甘先生找到了一篇文章，其副标题赫然为《转基因棉花造成农民自杀：一个谎言》。
According to the Nature article, peer-reviewed research in 2011 found that suicides among farmers were no more numerous after the new seeds were introduced than before. And a 2012 study found that farmers’ profits rose because of reduced losses from pest attacks.
据《自然》杂志上的文章称，2011年的同行评议研究发现，在引进了新种子后，农民的自杀数量并未多于以往。此外，2012年的一项研究还发现，由于降低了虫害造成的损失，农民们的利润有增无减。
“There’s farmers committing suicide because of the whole debt issue, but it’s not because of the G.M.O. issue,” Mr. Ilagan said he concluded in mid-August.
“的确是有农民因债务问题而自杀，但这并非转基因生物的过错，”伊拉甘先生说，他在9月中旬得出了这个结论。
Still, it was hard not to be spooked by material emailed by constituents and circulated on Facebook: images of tomatoes with syringes stuck in them and of pears and apples stapled together, warnings of children harmed by parents serving genetically modified food. The specter of genetic contamination still haunted him. And his mother, who had always served papaya at home, had stopped because of her new concerns about the Rainbow variety.
不过，选民们一直通过电子邮件和Facebook散播耸人听闻的图片：身上插着注射器的西红柿啦，钉在一起的梨和苹果啦，还警告父母们：如果给儿童吃转基因食品就是在毒害他们……想要不被这些东西吓倒可不容易。此外，基因污染的问题仍然像幽灵一样纠缠着伊拉甘。以前他家常常吃番木瓜，但自从伊拉甘的母亲对彩虹木瓜品种产生了新的顾虑，这种水果从此再也没有出现在餐桌之上。
Learning From a Researcher
向研究人员学习
The scientists at the national agriculture research center here were not accustomed to local Council representatives dropping by unannounced.
在这里，国家农业研究中心的科学家们并不习惯接待当地的议会代表未经预先通知的贸然造访。
But one day in August, Mr. Ilagan recalled, when he turned up in search of someone who could answer questions about genetic contamination, he found a molecular biologist willing to help.
但8月的一天，当伊拉甘前去寻找是否有人能回答有关基因污染的问题时，一位分子生物学家向他伸出了援手。
“It’s kind of a loaded term,” the councilman remembered the scientist, Jon Suzuki, saying. “What they’re talking about is cross-pollination, which is something that happens all the time within species.”
“可以说，这是一个带有既定感情色彩的术语，”伊拉甘议员还记得科学家乔恩·铃木(Jon Suzuki)这样说。“它讲的实际上是异花授粉，一种在物种中无时无刻不在发生的现象。”
The councilman knew little about how food was grown. He enlisted in the Air National Guard immediately after high school and abandoned his first semester of community college classes when he decided to run for the Council seat.
伊拉甘议员对食品作物的生长过程所知寥寥。他高中一毕业就应征入伍参加了空军国民警卫队，在他决定竞选议会席位时，他不得不放弃了社区大学第一个学期的课程。
Dr. Suzuki gave him a tutorial on plant reproduction, Mr. Ilagan recalled, explaining that with the wind, insects and animals spreading pollen and seeds, cross-pollination can never be entirely avoided.
铃木博士给他上了一堂关于植物繁殖的课程，伊拉甘回忆说，在课上，他向他解释，由于风、昆虫和动物都在传播花粉和种子，异花授粉其实永远无法完全避免。
But, Mr. Ilagan learned, by staggering planting times and ensuring a reasonable distance between crops, it is usually possible to avoid large-scale mingling. Also, plants have different fertilization methods: The Rainbow papaya, for instance, was largely self-fertilizing. If it is planted about 12 feet away from other varieties, the chance of cross-pollination is exceedingly low.
但是，伊拉甘先生在学习中了解到，只要错开种植时间，保证作物之间的合理距离，通常就可以避免大规模的杂交。此外，不同的植物也有其各自的授粉方式：例如，彩虹木瓜主要采用自花授粉。在其种植区距离其他品种达12英尺（约3.7米）左右时，异花授粉的几率可以降到极低。
“But what about the papaya contaminating” — Mr. Ilagan recalls correcting himself — “cross-pollinating with a pineapple?”
“但是，万一番木瓜通过异花授粉污染菠萝怎么办？”伊拉甘先生追问。
This was the part he had trouble explaining to himself. Was the virus gene from the papaya also in Ms. Barr’s macadamia nuts and the organic coffee farmer’s beans?
这一点他一直无法向自己解释。番木瓜中的病毒基因会不会也出现在巴尔女士的夏威夷果和有机咖啡种植园的咖啡豆上？
Dr. Suzuki paused.
铃木博士停顿了一下。
“With plants of different species — it’s kind of like how you don’t cross a cat with a dog and expect to have offspring,” he said.
“对于不同的植物物种——嗯，打个比方说吧，你总不能指望猫和狗杂交产生后代，”他说。
“Duh!” exclaimed Mr. Ilagan. “I should have realized that.”
“哦！”伊拉甘先生茅塞顿开地惊呼道。“我早该想到这一点。”
In the following weeks, Mr. Ilagan sometimes called Dr. Suzuki with his question du jour. For instance, do weeds near genetically modified crops turn into “superweeds” because of a rogue gene?
在接下来的几个星期中，伊拉甘时不时就他遇到的新问题致电铃木博士。例如，他询问：在转基因作物附近生长的杂草会不会因为意外获得了“流氓基因”而变成“超级杂草”？
The scientist, he recalled, helped him understand that “superweeds” were weeds that had evolved resistance to a widely used herbicide — most likely faster than they would have if farmers had not used it so much on crops genetically engineered to tolerate it.
伊拉甘回忆，在这位科学家的帮助下，他认识到“超级杂草”是对广泛使用的除草剂演化出耐受性的杂草——倘若农民们没有对具有耐受性的转基因作物使用这么多的除草剂，“超级杂草”也不至于出现得这么快。
Biotechnology firms were already selling seeds that tolerated other, less benign herbicides, Mr. Ilagan learned. But that was a different problem from the specter conjured by a woman at one of the hearings, who said that “G.M.O.s are cross-pollinating with weeds that now can’t be controlled.”
伊拉甘发现，生物技术公司已经开始销售可以耐受其他较为温和的除草剂的种子。但是，在一场听证会上，一名妇女提出的另一个问题再次使转基因化身为可怖的魔鬼：“转基因生物有可能与目前无法控制的杂草异花授粉。”
Asked about the danger of moving genes among species where they had not originated, Dr. Suzuki explained that for millenniums, humans had bred crops of the same species to produce desired traits. But with the advent of genetic engineering, it became possible to borrow a feature from elsewhere on the tree of life. An example Mr. Ilagan later learned about was the rice being tested in the Philippines. Modified with genes from bacteria and corn, it can provide Vitamin A, the deficiency of which is a scourge of the world’s poor.
当人们问及基因在其非起源物种间转移的危险性时，铃木博士解释说，几千年来，人们一直依靠培育同种作物以期产生所需性状。但随着基因工程的出现，从生命之树的其他枝干上“借鉴”新的功能成为了可能。伊拉甘先生后来了解到一个示例：一种新型水稻正在菲律宾接受测试。在得到细菌和玉米基因的修饰后，该水稻品种可提供维生素A，而维生素A缺乏症一直是全世界穷人中的一大灾难。
That did not mean genetically engineered food could never cause harm. But the risks of such crops could be reliably tested, and they had so far proved safe. “With scientists, we never say anything is 100 percent certain one way or another,” Dr. Suzuki said. “We weigh conclusions on accumulated knowledge or evidence — but often this is not satisfactory for some.”
这并不意味着转基因食品永远不会造成危害。但此类作物的风险可以通过可靠的方式加以检测，且迄今为止的检测均证明了它们的安全性。“作为科学家，我们从来不会为某种东西打百分之百的包票，”铃木博士说。“我们只是基于已积累的知识或证据对结论加以权衡——虽然这往往让某些人很不满意。”
Silencing the Scientists
科学家们被禁言
On Oct. 1, Mr. Ilagan voted to block the bill from moving out of committee, shortly after a day of what Ms. Wille and Brenda Ford, another Council member who was a proponent of the ban, had described as expert testimony.
10月1日，就在威尔女士和该禁令的支持者之一，另一名议员布伦达·福特(Brenda Ford)的说辞被纳入专家证言之日后不久，伊拉甘先生投票否决委员会通过该法案。
At the hearing on Sept. 23, he had grown increasingly uneasy as his fellow Council members declined to call several University of Hawaii scientists who had flown from Oahu, instead allotting 45 minutes to Jeffrey Smith, a self-styled expert on G.M.O.s with no scientific credentials.
在9月23日的听证会上，伊拉甘留意到他的议员同事们拒绝致电从瓦胡岛专程飞来的几位夏威夷大学的科学家，却给了毫无科学资历的自封的转基因生物专家，杰弗里·史密斯(Jeffrey Smith)45分钟的发言时间，这让他感到越来越不自在。
One University of Hawaii at Manoa biologist, Richard Manshardt, responded to a question from Ms. Ford about the effect on honeybees of corn engineered to resist pests: none, he said, because the protein it produced affected only certain insect groups, and was not toxic to bees.
在福特女士就抗虫转基因玉米对蜜蜂的影响提问时，夏威夷大学马诺阿分校(University of Hawaii at Manoa)的生物学家理查德·曼斯哈特(Richard Manshardt)回答：完全没有影响。他解释说，因为该作物产生的蛋白质只能影响特定的昆虫种群，对蜜蜂则完全无毒。
“I don’t agree with the professor,” Ms. Ford told her colleagues.
“我不同意教授的观点，”福特女士这样对同僚们说。
Many University of Hawaii scientists had already registered their opposition to the bill, in written and oral testimony and letters in the local papers.
夏威夷大学的许多科学家都已经通过书面和口头证词，以及致函当地报纸的方式明确地表示反对该法案。
If the ban passed, local farmers could not take advantage of projects underway at the university and elsewhere, they noted, including drought-tolerant crops and higher-yield pineapple plants. Genetic engineering is a precise technique that “itself is not harmful,” the dean of the school’s College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources, Maria Gallo, wrote in one op-ed.
他们指出，如果该禁令获得通过，当地农民将再也无法从该大学及其他地方正在进行的项目（包括耐旱作物和高产菠萝等）中获益。基因工程是一种精密的技术，“它本身是无害的，”夏威夷大学马诺阿分校热带农业与人力资源学院(College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources)的院长玛丽亚·加洛(Maria Gallo)在一篇社论中写道。
But Ms. Wille had largely dismissed the opinions of university researchers, citing Monsanto contributions to the university. In 2012, she noted, the company made a one-time donation of $600,000 for student scholarships at the College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources, an amount that the college said represented about 1 percent of its annual budget that year.
但威尔女士以该大学获得了孟山都的捐款资助为由，将这些大学研究人员的意见抛置脑后。她指出，2012年该公司向热带农业与人力资源学院的大学生奖学金一次性捐款了60万美元，按照该学院的说法，这一数额相当于该院年度预算的1%。
“It is sad that our state has allowed our university departments of agriculture to become largely dependent upon funding grants from the multinational chemical corporations,” Ms. Wille told reporters, suggesting that the university’s professors were largely a “mouthpiece for the G.M.O. biotech industry.” She did, however, rely on the opinion of a specialist in organic agriculture practices at the university, Hector Valenzuela, who supported the bill.
“可悲的是，我们州居然允许大学中的农业院系在如此大的程度上依赖于跨国化工公司的资助，”威尔女士告诉记者，并暗示这些大学教授基本上已经成为“转基因生物技术的传声筒”。然而，她却对同样隶属于该大学的一名支持该法案的有机农业实践专家，赫克托·巴伦苏埃拉(Hector Valenzuela)的意见十分倚赖。
Mr. Smith, known for “Genetic Roulette,” a movie he produced based on his book of the same title that had been shown at one of the island’s “March Against Monsanto” events, appeared at the hearing by Skype from Arizona.
因影片《基因轮盘赌》（根据同名作品制作，并曾在夏威夷群岛之一的“反孟山都游行”中放映）声名鹊起的史密斯先生虽然人在亚利桑那州，却通过Skype出席了听证会。
He praised the Council for stepping in where he believes that federal regulatory agencies have failed, and suggested that the Rainbow papaya could harm people because of a protein produced by the viral gene added to it, adding that no human or animal feeding studies had ever been conducted on the fruit.
他对该议会敢于涉足在他眼里联邦监管机构未尽其责的领域表示赞扬，并提出，彩虹木瓜中带有从病毒基因产生的蛋白质，因此它有害人体健康，并补充道，人们尚未对该水果进行过任何人体或动物喂食研究。
Mr. Ilagan was genuinely curious to hear the author’s take on his own latest realization: Each genetically modified organism was different, and came with its own set of trade-offs.
伊拉甘真想听听这位作者对他最近获得的认知有何看法：每一种转基因生物都是与众不同的，并带有自己的一套协调机制。
“I don’t see a blanket ban,” he told his staff that week. “It seems like it should be a case-by-case thing.”
“我觉得不能一概而论地全面禁止，”在那一周，他对自己的工作人员说。“应该具体问题具体分析。”
“Aloha, Mr. Smith,” Mr. Ilagan said when he had his turn. “Or is it Dr. Smith?”
“你好，史密斯先生，”在轮到伊拉甘发言时，他说。“或者，应称呼您史密斯博士？”
“No, Jeffrey’s fine,” Mr. Smith said over Skype.
“不必多礼，叫我杰弗里就好，”史密斯通过Skype说。
“In your world,” Mr. Ilagan asked, “is there any room for any G.M.O.?”
“在你的世界里，”伊拉甘问，“可有转基因的一席之地？”
Mr. Smith replied that there was not.
史密斯答曰绝无。
In the afternoon, Dr. Gonsalves, who led the development of the Rainbow papaya, was given time to respond to Mr. Smith’s allegations. He laid to rest a lingering question about papaya safety that had troubled Mr. Ilagan.
当天下午，彩虹木瓜研发工作的领导人冈萨弗斯博士获得了发言时间，以回应史密斯的指控。他平息了始终困扰着伊拉甘的一个事关番木瓜安全性的问题。
He explained that any papaya infected by the ringspot virus contains the protein Mr. Smith had mentioned as potentially dangerous in the genetically modified Rainbow. Moreover, plant viruses do not infect people. “Everyone was eating virus-infected papaya in the 1990s,” Dr. Gonsalves said. “And now you want to do feeding studies?”
他解释说，转基因彩虹木瓜中含有的那种被史密斯先生称为具有潜在危险性的蛋白质在任何受到环斑病毒感染的番木瓜中都能找到。况且，植物病毒并不会感染人类。“20世纪90年代，人人都食用了感染病毒的番木瓜，”冈萨弗斯博士说。“现在你还想要进行喂养研究么？”
With one member absent, only one other Council member joined Mr. Ilagan in opposing the bill. The Council deferred a decision on creating a task force to discuss the implications of banning genetically modified organisms.
在一名成员缺席的情况下，其他议员中只有一人加入了伊拉甘先生反对该法案的阵营。议会推迟就是否为讨论禁止转基因生物的影响而建立特别工作组作出决定。
Ms. Wille assured her colleagues that, upon the bill’s passage, she would support the formation of such a group. But it was better not to delay, she said: “I want to draw a line in the sand until we can take a closer look.”
威尔女士曾向她的同事们保证，当法案通过时，她将支持成立这样的一个工作组。但最好不要再有拖延，她说：“我希望在详细调查之前就划清底线。”
Angry Voters
愤怒的选民
The response to Mr. Ilagan’s vote was swift and unambiguous.
对于伊拉甘的投票，群众的反应来得迅速且态度鲜明。
He was mocked on Facebook and pilloried in letters from constituents. “You have been influenced by the contrived arguments from the pro-G.M.O. interests,” one letter read. “Many of my fellow Puna residents will seriously consider more progressive candidates for the next Council term.”
选民们在Facebook上嘲笑他，讽刺的信件纷至沓来。“你被亲转基因利益的谬论影响了，”一封信中写道。“我们普纳地区的许多居民都将认真考虑为下届议会任期选择更激进的候选人。”
“Greggor, what do you think you’re doing?” his campaign manager, Kareen Haskin, 70, a close family friend, asked him. “The main thing I told people was you would listen to them.”
“格雷戈尔，你以为自己在做什么啊？”伊拉甘的竞选经理，他们家族的老友，70岁的卡伦·哈斯金(Kareen Haskin)问他。“我之前试图传达给人们的最重要的一点就是你会听从他们的意见。”
He told her that though a vocal minority supported the ban, many other constituents knew little about the complex issue. “I have to do what’s right for them, too.”
于是他告诉她，尽管那些积极表达自己意见的少数派支持该禁令，但其他大多数选民对这个复杂问题都知之甚少。“我只能做对他们最正确的事。”
He told Ms. Haskin what he had learned about health and environmental aspects of genetic engineering. But as he had found often happened in conversations about G.M.O.s, the subject quickly shifted. “We don’t want corporations to own all the seeds,” she said.
他从健康和环境方面向哈斯金女士讲述了他学习基因工程的收获。但是，正如他在关于转基因生物的谈话中经常发现的那样，话题迅速转了开去。“我们可不希望自己所有的种子都被企业所垄断，”她说。
Mr. Ilagan was as opposed as Ms. Haskin was to big businesses controlling a market, in part by using patents that prohibit farmers from replanting or selling their seeds. But banning crops because they were made with genetic engineering would not change the patent laws, he told her.
与哈斯金女士一样，伊拉甘也反对大企业在某种程度上利用专利保护权禁止农民再次种植或销售他们的种子，从而控制整个市场。但是他告诉她，禁止基因工程作物并不会对专利法造成任何动摇。
Mr. Ilagan had been alarmed by testimony from farmers who said they could be sued by Monsanto and other patent-holders when patented seeds ended up in their fields by accident. But he found there was no evidence that Monsanto had ever initiated such a lawsuit.
之前有农民的证词称，如果他们田里不小心出现了受专利保护的种子，他们将被孟山都和其他专利持有者起诉，这令伊拉甘大为惊诧。但他发现，并无证据表明孟山都曾发起过类似的诉讼。
“I’m still trying to voice this out,” he said, “but to me it just seems symbolic. Like doing something that seems good, but not really achieving what you want to achieve.”
“我一直在努力表达这一呼声，”他说，“但对我来说这恐怕只剩下些象征性的意义。就像你试图去做些看起来有益的事情，却未必能如愿以偿。”
Ms. Haskin took his hand. “You have to vote for this bill,” she pleaded. “What about all the pesticides being sprayed on our food?”
哈斯金女士握住他的手。“请你务必投票支持这项法案，”她恳求道。“关于所有那些喷洒在我们的食物上的农药，又怎么说？”
The conversation, he noticed, had turned again.
伊拉甘注意到，谈话再次转移了方向。
Emotional Testimony
情绪化的证词
The Council meeting on Oct. 15 started with public testimony that lasted more than seven hours.
10月15日的议会会议从公开证言开始，前后历时七个多小时。
Again, Mr. Ilagan found himself touched by the emotion of the crowd. A mother brought her 8-year-old to testify. Mr. Brewer, the eco-hostel owner, was in the audience with his wife, who is deaf, signing so she could follow the debate. Invoking the Hawaiian word for “land,” several speakers — not necessarily of Hawaiian descent — begged for “our aina” to be preserved. “Our island can be the uncontaminated seedbed for the world,” one said.
伊拉甘再次发现自己被群众的情绪触动。一位母亲带着她8岁的孩子前来作证。生态旅馆的老板布鲁尔先生偕其夫人在观众中就坐，这位夫人是一名聋人，她表示来到现场就可以与辩论的进展同步。有几位发言者乞求人们保护“我们的aina”（他们刻意援引了夏威夷语中的‘土地’一词，尽管他们本人未必是夏威夷血统。）“我们的岛屿应成为我们为世界保留的一片未受污染的苗床，”其中一人这样说。
Those in favor of the bill outnumbered those opposed by more than five to one.
赞成该法案的人数远远超过了反对者，其比例达到五比一。
Lukas Kambic, a biology major at the University of Hawaii at Hilo, sought to use his own experience to counter the anecdotes others voiced that night. “My mom ate organic food exclusively and did yoga all the time, and she died of a brain aneurysm,” Mr. Kambic said. “According to the logic of people here, she was killed by organic food and yoga.”
在夏威夷大学希罗分校攻读生物学专业的卢卡斯·卡姆比可(Lukas Kambic)试图利用自己的亲身经验来驳斥其他人在那夜讲述的传闻轶事。“我的母亲只吃有机食品，还坚持做瑜伽，可她还是死于脑动脉瘤，”卡姆比可先生说。“依照在场诸君的逻辑，是有机食品和瑜伽害死了她。”
The room was silent.
会场里一片沉默。
Knowing that the final vote on the ban was yet to come, Mr. Ilagan voted “no” after the hearing. Then nearly 1,000 people quickly signed a petition demanding that he change his vote at the final hearing, scheduled for Nov. 18. For the first time in his career as councilman, he began to consider voting “kanalua” — yes, with reservation.
明知道该禁令的最终投票还未开始，伊拉甘在听证会后就投了反对票。其后，近1000人迅速签署了联名请愿书，要求他在定于11月18日的最终听证会上改变投票。在他作为议员的职业生涯中，他第一次开始考虑投kanalua票——是的，他持保留态度。
In early November, he sought to escape with a friend to a condo in Kona, only to be accosted at the pool by a voter demanding answers.
11月初，他与朋友跑到位于可纳的公寓去躲清静，却在游泳池边被要求答复的选民逮个正着。
And on Nov. 14, Mr. Brewer, the veteran who runs an eco-hostel, visited him in his office. They discussed Mr. Brewer’s conviction that cross-pollination by G.M.O.s would do unknown harm to the environment and detract from the island’s image.
11月14日，退伍军人、现任生态旅馆老板布鲁尔先生造访了他的办公室。布鲁尔先生坚信，转基因生物异花授粉将给环境带来未知的危害，并有损本岛的形象，两人就此展开了讨论。
“We need all the votes we can get to override” a possible veto by the mayor, Mr. Brewer said. “Do you think you can vote for this bill, Greggor?”
“我们需要所能争取到的所有选票，这样万一法案遭到市长的否决，我们也能推翻它，”布鲁尔先生说。“你可以投票支持该法案么，格雷戈尔？”
Mr. Ilagan still had questions of his own. One scientist he had spoken to said the built-in pesticide in corn should not worry him, because many plants contain their own natural pesticides. “I still want to track that down,” he told his staff. “What is an example of a natural pesticide?”
伊拉甘自己也还有一些问题有待回答。一位曾经与他交谈过的科学家曾说，他无需对玉米中嵌入的“杀虫剂”（通过转基因获得的抗虫蛋白）过分担忧，因为许多植物都含有自己的天然杀虫剂。“但我还是想对其进行一番考证，”他告诉工作人员。“有什么天然杀虫剂的示例吗？”
Maybe, he thought, he would join the long-promised task force, which would weigh the implications of banning G.M.O.s on the island and report back to the Council.
他想，或许他会加入承诺已久的特别工作组，对禁止转基因生物对该岛的影响加以权衡，并将结果回报给议会。
The final hearing on the bill was not unlike the first. Superweeds were mentioned. Indian suicides. Contamination.
关于该法案的最终听证会与第一个如出一辙。还是那些陈词滥调：超级杂草、印度的自杀案、污染。
Ms. Wille urged a vote for the ban. “To do otherwise,” she said, “would be to ignore the cries from round the world and on the mainland.”
威尔女士敦促大家为这项禁令投支持票。“否则的话，”她说，“就是对全世界和美国本土人民的呼声充耳不闻。”
“Mr. Ilagan?” the Council member leading the meeting asked when it came time for the final vote.
“伊拉甘先生？”最后表决的时刻到来时，主持会议的议会成员询问。
“No,” he replied.
“反对，”他回答。
The ban was approved, 6 to 3.
这项禁令以六票支持对三票反对获得批准。
The mayor signed the bill on Dec. 5.
市长于2013年12月5日签署了该法案。
At the Council meeting on Dec. 17, Ms. Wille’s motion to create a committee to study the impact of banning genetically modified organisms on the island was not seconded, and she withdrew it. Stunned, Mr. Ilagan briefly considered making his own motion to form a task force. But he could see he would not have enough support.
在12月17日召开的议会会议上，威尔女士关于成立委员会来研究禁止转基因生物对该岛影响的议案没有得到附议，然后她撤回了这项提议。伊拉甘大吃一惊，并一度考虑是否自己提案来建立这样的一个特别工作组。但他很清楚，他不可能获得足够的支持。
It was time to move on. A fast-growing subdivision in his district needed a community park. Last week, Mr. Ilagan turned his focus to drumming up support for the bond issue he would need from the county to plan and design it.
是时候向前看了。在他的辖区内，一片飞速发展的小区急需配备社区公园。上周，伊拉甘先生将工作重心放在了为债券发行争取支持之上——只有获得了全县各界的帮助，这个项目的规划和设计才能更好地进行。