SAN ANTONIO — After the explosion, Cpl. Sebastian Gallegos awoke to see the October sun glinting through the water, an image so lovely he thought he was dreaming. Then something caught his eye, yanking him back to grim awareness: an arm, bobbing near the surface, a black hair tie wrapped around its wrist.
圣安东尼奥——爆炸过后，塞巴斯蒂安·加莱戈斯(Sebastian Gallegos)下士醒了过来。眼前，水面在10月阳光的照耀下波光粼粼，景色异常迷人，他以为自己在梦境当中。随后，映入眼帘的一件事物把他拉回到残酷的现实当中：一只手臂，半沉半浮，手腕上系着一个黑色的发带。
The elastic tie was a memento of his wife, a dime-store amulet that he wore on every patrol in Afghanistan. Now, from the depths of his mental fog, he watched it float by like driftwood on a lazy current, attached to an arm that was no longer quite attached to him.
这条带松紧带的发带是他妻子给他的纪念物。这个从廉价商店买来的饰品成了他在阿富汗的护身符，每逢巡逻，他都会戴着。现在，神情恍惚的他看着手臂在缓缓的水流中像一根浮木一样飘过，虽然发带还在，但手臂却已离他而去。
He had been blown up, and was drowning at the bottom of an irrigation ditch.
他被炸飞了，身体倒在了灌溉沟渠底部，淹没在水中。
Two years later, the corporal finds himself tethered to a different kind of limb, a $110,000 robotic device with an electronic motor and sensors able to read signals from his brain. He is in the office of his occupational therapist, lifting and lowering a sponge while monitoring a computer screen as it tracks nerve signals in his shoulder.
两年之后，这位下士身上装上了一条与众不同的手臂，这是一个价值11万美元（约合66万元人民币）的机械装置，它拥有电子监控器和传感器，可以阅读大脑的信号。他正在他的职业治疗师办公室练习拿、放海绵。他看着电脑屏幕，而电脑则在跟踪他肩部发出的神经信号。
Close hand, raise elbow, he says to himself. The mechanical arm rises, but the claw-like hand opens, dropping the sponge. Try again, the therapist instructs. Same result. Again. Tiny gears whir, and his brow wrinkles with the mental effort. The elbow rises, and this time the hand remains closed. He breathes.
他对自己念念有词：握拳，抬起胳膊。机械手臂抬了起来，但是像爪子一般的手指并没有握紧。再试一遍，治疗师命令道。又是同样的结果。再来一遍。手臂上的小零件吱吱呀呀地运转着，他的眉头皱了起来，注意力高度集中。胳膊抬起来了，而这回手指一直是紧握着的。他吁了口气。
Success.
成功了。
“As a baby, you can hold onto a finger,” the corporal said. “I have to relearn.”
下士说道：“连婴儿都可以紧紧握住一根手指。而我得重新学习。”
It is no small task. Of the more than 1,570 American service members who have had arms, legs, feet or hands amputated because of injuries in Afghanistan or Iraq, fewer than 280 have lost upper limbs. Their struggles to use prosthetic limbs are in many ways far greater than for their lower-limb brethren.
这是一项艰巨的任务。1570多名美国军人在阿富汗、伊拉克因伤而失去手臂、腿、脚或手，在这些人当中，近280名士兵失去了上肢。在很多方面，他们使用假臂的难度远比那些失去下肢的士兵使用假肢的难度大得多。
Among orthopedists, there is a saying: legs may be stronger, but arms and hands are smarter. With myriad bones, joints and ranges of motion, the upper limbs are among the body’s most complex tools. Replicating their actions with robotic arms can be excruciatingly difficult, requiring amputees to understand the distinct muscle contractions involved in movements they once did without thinking.
整形外科医师中有这样一句话：虽然腿可能更结实，但是手臂和手更灵活。由于拥有众多的骨骼和关节并能执行不同的动作，上肢是身体最为复杂的工具。通过机械手臂来模仿上肢的动作将是异常困难的，这要求被截肢者理解不同类型的肌肉收缩，来完成他们之前无需思考就能完成的动作。
To bend the elbow, for instance, requires thinking about contracting a biceps, though the muscle no longer exists. But the thought still sends a nerve signal that can tell a prosthetic arm to flex. Every action, from grabbing a cup to turning the pages of a book, requires some such exercise in the brain.
例如，完成屈肘这一动作要求被截肢者回想肱二头肌的收缩，虽然这一块肌肉已不复存在。但是，这一想法仍会发出神经信号，让假臂完成弯曲动作。每一个动作，从拿杯子到翻书，都要求大脑进行类似的练习。
“There are a lot of mental gymnastics with upper limb prostheses,” said Lisa Smurr Walters, an occupational therapist who works with Corporal Gallegos at the Center for the Intrepid at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio.
加莱戈斯下士的职业治疗师丽莎·斯莫·沃特(Lisa Smurr Walters)说，“使用假上肢需要进行大量的大脑练习。”丽莎在圣安东尼奥的布鲁克军队医疗中心的无畏将士中心(Center for the Intrepid at Brooke Army Medical Center)工作。
The complexity of the upper limbs, though, is just part of the problem. While prosthetic leg technology has advanced rapidly in the past decade, prosthetic arms have been slow to catch up. Many amputees still use body-powered hooks. And the most common electronic arms, pioneered by the Soviet Union in the 1950s, have improved with lighter materials and microprocessors but are still difficult to control.
然而，上肢的复杂性仅仅是问题的一部分。尽管假腿技术在过去10年中的进步十分迅速，但是假臂的进展却十分缓慢。很多被截肢者仍在使用由身体驱动的挂钩。目前最常见的电子假臂是前苏联在20世纪50年代发明的。虽然这种假臂已经升级装备了更轻的材料和微处理器，但是仍难以控制。
Upper limb amputees must also cope with the critical loss of sensation. Touch — the ability to differentiate baby skin from sandpaper or to calibrate between gripping a hammer and clasping a hand — no longer exists.
失去上肢的人所面临的另一个重大问题就是感觉的缺失。触觉——基于这一功能，人们才能分辨婴儿皮肤和砂纸之间的区别以及调整握锤和握手的力度——已经不复存在。
For all those reasons, nearly half of upper limb amputees choose not to use prostheses, functioning instead with one good arm. By contrast, almost all lower limb amputees use prosthetic legs.
基于以上这些原因，将近一半失去上肢的人放弃使用假臂，而用另一只完好无损的手代劳。与之形成对比的是，几乎所有失去下肢的人都会使用假腿。
But Corporal Gallegos, 23, is part of a small vanguard of military amputees who are benefiting from new advances in upper limb technology. Earlier this year, he received a pioneering surgery known as targeted muscle reinnervation that amplifies the tiny nerve signals that control the arm. In effect, the surgery creates additional “sockets” into which electrodes from a prosthetic limb can connect.
然而23岁的加莱戈斯下士与其他一小部分被截肢士兵成了上肢技术新进展的受益者。2012年早些时候，他接受了一个具有开拓性的手术，即定向肌肉再生术，以放大细微的神经信号，从而达到控制假臂的目的。实际上，手术创造了额外的“插座”，即用于连接假臂的电极。
More sockets reading stronger signals will make controlling his prosthesis more intuitive, said Dr. Todd Kuiken of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, who developed the procedure. Rather than having to think about contracting both the triceps and biceps just to make a fist, the corporal will be able to simply think, close hand, and the proper nerves should fire automatically.
发明这一手术的芝加哥疗养院(Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago)托德·奎肯博士(Dr. Todd Kuiken)表示，电极越多，接收的信号就越强，假肢控制也就变得更加自如。加莱戈斯下士无需同时想象收缩肱二头肌和肱三头肌来完成简单的握拳动作，而可以简单地想象“握紧手”，相应的神经就会自动发出信号。
In the coming years, new technology will allow amputees to feel with their prostheses or use pattern-recognition software to move their devices even more intuitively, Dr. Kuiken said. And a new arm under development by the Pentagon, the DEKA Arm, is far more dexterous than any currently available.
奎肯博士说，在今后，新的技术将允许被截肢者通过假臂进行感知或使用模式识别软件来更为自如地使用假臂。五角大楼正在开发的新假臂DEKA Arm比现今任何假臂都更为灵巧。
But for Corporal Gallegos, becoming proficient on his prosthesis after reinnervation surgery remains a challenge, likely to take months more of tedious practice. For that reason, only the most motivated amputees — super users, they are called — are allowed to undergo the surgery.
但是对加莱戈斯下士来说，在再生手术后熟练运用假臂仍是一个挑战，刻苦的训练很有可能需要持续数月的时间。基于这一原因，只有自强不息的被截肢者——被人们称之为“超级用户”——才能接受这一手术。
Corporal Gallegos had to learn to cope with phantom-limb pain. A pulsing sensation like having a tourniquet applied to the arm, the pain was sometimes powerful enough to keep the strapping corporal in bed, leaving him unable to concentrate or converse.
加莱戈斯下士必须学会忍受幻肢疼痛。这是一种脉动感，就像手臂被绑上了止血带一样。有时，这位身材魁梧的下士会因为剧烈的疼痛而卧床不起，无法集中精力或进行交谈。
Over time, medication and surgeries dampened the pain enough that he could throw himself into practicing on a robotic arm. The device, he found, was a brain teaser, frustrating his efforts to make it obey. More than once, he threatened to throw it out the window.
一段时间之后，药物和手术会使疼痛大幅减轻，他便可以恢复对机械手臂的训练。他发现，这个设备总是和大脑较劲，不听从他的操控，让他感到沮丧。他曾不止一次地威胁要把假臂扔出窗外。
To motivate himself in those moments, he thought about his Marine Corps friends. Eventually he had a skin-tone silicone sleeve for his prosthetic arm engraved with the names of all 10 Marines from Lima Company who died in Sangin. Now, when he needs a lift, he looks at the arm — in the very place he once wore his wife’s hair tie — and recites their names like a personal prayer.
为了给受挫的自己打气，他会回想他在海军陆战队的朋友。最终，他给假臂带上了肉色的硅胶套，上面刻着L连队10位在桑金阵亡的将士的名字。现在，每当他需要鼓励的时候，他就会看看手臂——看看手臂上曾经戴着妻子发带的地方——然后像祈祷一样默念他们的名字。
As he began wearing mechanical arms longer each day, his prosthetist, Ryan Blanck, decided that he might be ready for targeted reinnervation surgery. The procedure works off the natural ability of muscles to amplify nerve signals. By rerouting nerves into healthy muscle and reshaping the tissue to bring it closer to sensors in the prosthesis, the procedure strengthens the brain’s signals, and hence its ability to control the machine.
随着他每天戴假臂的时间的延长，他的修复师莱恩·布兰克(Ryan Blanck)认为他已经做好了接受定向再生手术的准备。这一手术将清除肌肉自有的能力，并放大神经信号。手术会把神经重新移植到健康的肌肉当中，并通过改造组织拉近神经与假臂传感器的距离，这样，大脑的信号就可以得到增强，而控制假臂的能力也会得到提高。
Wearing the same type of prosthetic arm he had used before, Corporal Gallegos noticed the difference almost immediately. No longer did he have to think so hard about contracting various muscles: when he wanted the arm to move, it did, faster and more fluidly.
在戴上先前使用的假臂之后，加莱戈斯几乎立刻感受到了变化。他不必再刻意思考去收缩哪块肌肉：当他想让手臂移动时，手臂就会移动，更快而且更流畅。
That did not mean, however, that it behaved as he wanted. He still has problems with “cross talk,” where certain nerves dominate over others. If a wrist nerve dominates, for instance, a patient may have to think about bending the wrist to make the hand close. But with repeated use, the nerves sort themselves out and the need for trickery fades, Dr. Kuiken said.
但是这并不意味着他已能随心所欲地使用假臂。他仍面临着“串扰”的问题，也就是某些神经会影响其他的神经。例如，如果腕神经处于主导地位，病人可能就得在抓握之前思考弯曲手腕。奎肯博士说，随着重复使用，神经会自行适应而且这些症状也会逐渐消失。
For all his gains with the prosthesis, Corporal Gallegos has not overcome the embarrassment he feels when wearing his robotic arm in public. Once the hand fell off in a crowded restaurant, eliciting gasps from a nearby child. In darkened movie theaters, the Terminator-like sounds his arm makes draw startled whispers. And to this day, he will not wear short-sleeve shirts to restaurants.
尽管在使用假臂方面取得了很大的进步，但是加莱戈斯下士仍未克服在公共场合戴假臂的羞愧心理。有一次假臂在一个人群熙攘的饭店里掉了下来，把附近的小孩吓了一跳。在黑暗的电影院里，假臂所发出的酷似电影《终结者》(Terminator)里机器人的声音也招来了惊吓的眼神和窃窃私语。到现在，他一直不愿穿短袖去饭馆吃饭。
“Even if it is 75 degrees out, I’ll wear a jacket just to avoid getting stared at,” he said.
他说，“即便外面有25度，我也会穿着夹克出门，避免成为关注的焦点。”
For a year after nearly drowning in Afghanistan, Corporal Gallegos could not go near water, any water, even the River Walk, a restaurant-lined path along the San Antonio River. But a therapist pushed him to overcome his anxiety, first by swimming, then kayaking, then surfing.
自阿富汗几近溺水身亡一年之后，加莱戈斯下士仍不敢靠近水边或任何水域，哪怕是圣安东尼奥河沿岸满是餐馆的河滨步道。但是一位治疗师鼓励他克服这一焦虑心理，首先是让他游泳，然后是划皮划艇，之后是冲浪。
Ben Kvanli, a former Olympian who runs a kayaking program for disabled troops, said Corporal Gallegos was an ambivalent paddler at first. But his technique was good, partly because the prosthesis forced him to use his core muscles more. And he was fast.
前奥运选手本·卡万利(Ben Kvanli)运营着一个针对残疾军人的皮划艇项目，他说，加莱戈斯一开始划的时候充满了矛盾心理。但是他的技术还不错，部分原因是因为假臂迫使他更多地去使用核心肌群。他划的速度很快。
Fast enough, indeed, that Mr. Kvanli is encouraging him to try out for the national Paralympic team next year.
他划的速度确实够快了。卡万利正鼓励他在2013年参加国家残奥队。
“Independence is a big part of this,” Mr. Kvanli said. “He is proving something.”
卡万利说，“独立很重要。他正在证明这一点。”
Fiercely self-reliant from childhood, Corporal Gallegos has struggled with losing independence after losing his arm. Suddenly, he had to ask for help with buttons, zippers and shoelaces. And he loathes asking for help.
加莱戈斯下士自小就十分独立，他在失去手臂后曾因失去自理能力而痛苦过。突然间，他不得不请别人帮忙系纽扣、拉拉链和系鞋带。他对寻求帮助很反感。
There are holes in his living room wall that testify to his failed attempts to hang things using his prosthetic arm. And he still cringes at the memory of barking orders at his wife while she assembled a living-room furniture set that he could not assemble himself. “Stuff is a lot more complicated,” he said. “I’m still figuring out what my norm’s going to be, just on a day-to-day basis.”
他家客厅墙上的洞是他试图用假臂挂东西时失败的证明。他在妻子组装本应由自己组装的客厅家具时对她发号施令，他对这段回忆此仍感到自卑。他说，“事情比原来复杂多了。我仍在摸索我的生活准则，只是每天都不一样罢了。”
For that reason, he no longer makes big plans for the future, as he once did. Keep it simple, he tells himself: Get out of the Marine Corps. Go to college. Learn how to tie his shoelaces with a robotic hand.
基于这一原因，他不再像之前那样做长远规划了。简单就好，他对自己说：离开海军陆战队。念大学。学会如何使用机械手系鞋带。
And maybe, just maybe, become a Paralympian.
或者有可能，只是有可能，成为一名残奥运动员。
So there he was one recent afternoon, kayaking down the sun-dappled San Marcos River, using the wrong prosthesis because he had broken his kayaking limb while surfing. Normally he is at the front of the pack, but today his arm kept slipping off and he seemed in pain as he struggled just to keep up.
最近，一天下午，他沿着光影斑驳的圣马可斯河划着皮划艇，用的是另外一只假臂，因为他在冲浪时把划皮划艇的假臂弄坏了。通常，他会在队列的前排，但今天他的假臂老是滑脱，而且在吃力追赶之余，他似乎也在受着疼痛的折磨。
Yet he said nothing that could be heard as a complaint. And at the end of the six-hour trip, he went over the 14-foot Graduation Falls, the first time he had done so in a boat. After dropping vertically into the frothing water, his kayak momentarily disappeared beneath the surface before popping out like a cork.
然而他没有说一句抱怨的话。而且在6个小时的征途之后，他划船跃下了14英尺高的毕业瀑布，他还是头一次这样做。在垂直落入满是泡沫的水流之中后，他的皮划艇沉了下去，消失了一段时间，随后又像木塞一样冒了出来。
Eyes smiling below the brim of his helmet, Corporal Gallegos paddled to shore, hefted his boat onto his good shoulder and started the trudge upstream.
加莱戈斯下士头盔下的双眼充满了喜悦的神情，他划上了岸，举起皮划艇扛在了未受伤的肩上，迈着沉重的步伐朝上游走了过去。
He did not ask for help.
他并没有寻求帮助。