Over recent days the notices have gone out, an annual ritual of dashed hopes.
最近几天，大学录取通知纷纷发出，每年都有希望破灭的人要面对这种局面。
Brown University offered admission to the lowest fraction ever of the applicants it received: fewer than one in 10. The arithmetic was even more brutal at Stanford, Columbia, Yale. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill had a record number of students vying for its next freshman class — 31,321 — and accepted about one in six who applied from outside the state. Notre Dame took about one in five of all comers.
布朗大学(Brown University)给申请者发放的录取通知达到了历史最低点：不到10%。斯坦福大学(Stanford)、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)和耶鲁大学(Yale)的比例更低。申请就读北卡罗莱纳大学教堂山分校(University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)的学生达到历史新高——共计31321人，而且它只接受了州外申请人数的六分之一左右。美国圣母大学(University of Notre Dame)接受了大约五分之一的申请者。
And right now many young men and women who didn’t get in where they fervently longed to are worrying that it’s some grim harbinger of their future, some sweeping judgment of their worth.
目前，许多未能如愿进入日思夜想的大学的年轻人担心这意味着他们前景堪忧，而且也担心这是对他们自身价值的总体判断。
This is for them. And it’s intended less as a balm for the rejected than as a reality check for a society gone nuts over the whole overheated process.
这篇文章就是为他们而写的。与其说它是被拒绝后的慰藉，不如说它只是披露了社会现实——这个社会过分关注大学录取的过程，已经失去了理智。
If you were shut out of an elite school, that doesn’t mean you’re less gifted than all of the students who were welcomed there. It may mean only that you lacked the patronage that some of them had, or that you played the game less single-mindedly, taking fewer SAT courses and failing to massage your biography with the same zeal.
如果某所精英学校把你拒之门外，这并不意味着你的才能比那些受到录取的学生差。这个事实或许只说明，你没有得到某些人所拥有的那种支持，或者你对待这件事情没有那么专注——你上的SAT课程比较少，而且也没有以同样的热忱来润色你的个人简介。
A friend of mine in Africa told me recently about a center for orphans there that a rich American couple financed in part to give their own teenage children an exotic charity to visit occasionally and mine for college-application essays: admissions bait. That’s the degree of cunning that comes into this frenzy.
一位在非洲的朋友最近告诉我，一对富有的美国夫妇出资在非洲修建了一个孤儿中心，他们这样做一定程度上是为了让自己十几岁的孩子，能偶尔来异国他乡的慈善机构转转，这样他们写大学入学申请书时也能拿来炫耀：得到录取的筹码。人们的投机取巧竟然已经到了如此疯狂的程度。
Maybe the school that turned you down ranks high in the excessively publicized “College Salary Report” by PayScale.com, which looks at whose graduates go on to make the most money.
或许拒绝你的学校在PayScale.com高调公布的《大学收入报告》(College Salary Report)上名列前茅，这份报告研究哪所大学的学生挣钱最多。
What a ludicrous list. It’s at least as imperfectly assembled as the honor roll that U.S. News & World Report puts together every year. And even if you trust it, what does it tell you? That the colleges at the top have the most clout and impart the best skills? Or that these colleges admit the most young people whose parents and previously established networks guarantee them a leg up?
这是个多么可笑的名单。它至少与《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News & World Report)统计的年度排名一样存在缺陷。即使你相信它，它又能说明什么？是说排在首位的大学一定拥有最强的实力、能给学生传授最好的技能，还是说在这些大学录取的年轻人中，大多数人的父母及此前建立的关系网为他们提供了一些帮助？
Maybe it tells you merely that these colleges attract the budding plutocrats with the greatest concern for the heft of their paychecks. Is that the milieu you sought?
或许它只是告诉你，这些学校吸引的都是未来的有钱人，他们最关心的是将来能拿到多少薪水。你追求的难道就是这样的环境？
About money and professional advancement: Shiny diplomas from shiny schools help. It’s a lie to say otherwise. But it’s as foolish to accord their luster more consequence than the effort you put into your studies, the earnestness with which you hone your skills, what you actually learn. These are the sturdier building blocks of a career.
关于金钱和职业发展：拿到名校闪闪发光的学位证书当然有用。不承认这一点就是在撒谎。但是，如果认为这些东西比你花在学习上的精力、你锻炼自身技艺的认真态度，以及你真正学到的东西更重要，那也一样很傻。后面这些内容才是你职业生涯里更坚实的组成部分。
In “David and Goliath,” Malcolm Gladwell makes the case that a less exclusive university may enable a student to stand out and flourish in a way that a more exclusive one doesn’t. The selectiveness of Gladwell’s science doesn’t nullify the plausibility of his argument.
在《大卫与歌利亚》(David and Goliath)中，马尔科姆·格拉德威尔(Malcolm Gladwell)论述道，门槛稍低的大学可能会以门槛较高的大学不会采取的方式，帮助学生们出类拔萃、茁壮成长。
Corner offices in this country teem with C.E.O.s who didn’t do their undergraduate work in the Ivy League. Marillyn Hewson of Lockheed Martin went to the University of Alabama. John Mackey of Whole Foods studied at the University of Texas, never finishing.
这个国家的高级办公室里，坐满了没有上过常青藤联盟(Ivy League)大学的首席执行官。洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)的玛丽莲·休森(Marillyn Hewson)就读的是阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)。全食超市(Whole Foods)的约翰·麦基(John Mackey)上的是德克萨斯大学(University of Texas)，而且一直未能毕业。
Your diploma is, or should be, the least of what defines you. Show me someone whose identity is rooted in where he or she went to college. I’ll show you someone you really, really don’t want at your Super Bowl party.
学历是，或者说应该是最不能定义你的东西。告诉我有谁的身份来源于自己上过的大学。我要是找出这样一个人，你一定不愿意在自己的超级碗(Super Bowl)聚会上见到他。
And your diploma will have infinitely less relevance to your fulfillment than so much else: the wisdom with which you choose your romantic partners; your interactions with the community you inhabit; your generosity toward the family that you inherited or the family that you’ve made.
学历对你的成就的影响，远远比不上其他许多东西：选择伴侣时的智慧、与所居住的社区之间的互动、对你承续或组建的家庭的慷慨。
If you’re not bound for the school of your dreams, you’re probably bound for a school that doesn’t conform as tidily to your fantasies or promise to be as instantly snug a fit.
如果进不了梦寐以求的学校，你可能会去一所不完全合乎你想象，或是不一定很对你胃口的学校。
Good. College should be a crucible. It’s about departure, not continuity: about turning a page and becoming a new person, not letting the ink dry on who, at 17 or 18, you already are. The disruption of your best-laid plans serves that. It’s less a setback than a springboard.
很好。大学应该是一个大熔炉。大学应该让你改变而不是延续过往：你应该翻开新的一页，成为崭新的自己，而不是让一切在十七八岁的你身上定型。完美的计划被打断可以帮助你实现这一点。与其说它是一次挫折，不如说它是一块跳板。
A high school senior I know didn’t get into several of the colleges she coveted most. She got into a few that are plenty excellent. And I’ve never been more impressed with her, because she quickly realized that her regrets pale beside her blessings and she pivoted from letdown to excitement.
我认识的一名高中毕业班学生未能被她梦寐以求的几所大学录取。但她收到了几所相当出色的大学的录取通知书。我从来没有像现在这样对她刮目相看，因为她很快就意识到，和自己的幸运相比，那些遗憾有多么苍白。她很快由失望变成兴奋。
That resiliency and talent for optimism will matter more down the line than the name of the school lucky enough to have her. Like those of her peers who are gracefully getting past this ordeal that our status-mad society has foisted on them, she’ll do just fine.
相比有幸招收她的学校的名字，这种面对挫折的韧性和乐观的天赋，在未来会更加重要。我们这个崇尚地位的社会把这场磨难强加给了她和她的同龄人，其中部分人顺利地通过了这场磨难。和经受了磨难的那些人一样，她也会表现得不错。