BERKELEY, Calif. — When the economists Janet L. Yellen and George A. Akerlof hired a baby sitter for their son in the early 1980s, they decided to pay more than the going wage. They reasoned that a happier baby sitter would provide better care.
加利福尼亚州伯克利——上世纪80年代初，经济学家夫妇珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)和乔治·A·阿克洛夫(George A. Akerlof)给他们的儿子请保姆时，他们决定给出高于市价的薪水。他们的逻辑是，如果保姆高兴了，那么她就会更用心地照看孩子。
The decision not only attracted a series of excellent sitters, it also inspired the couple, both professors at the University of California at Berkeley, to develop a new theory of the labor market that remains an influential justification for the Federal Reserve’s ability to stimulate job growth.
这一决定不仅吸引了许多出色的保姆，而且也让耶伦夫妇受到了启发。当时两人都是加州大学伯克利分校(University of California at Berkeley)的教授，他们因此设计出了一套新的劳动力市场理论。如今美联储(Federal Reserve)可以刺激就业增长，这种理论仍然是一个很有影响力的依据。
Employers, they asserted, often seek to improve morale by paying more than the minimum necessary wage, which has the effect of preventing some people from finding jobs. And during periods of high unemployment, they said, monetary stimulus can increase demand for labor – a direct rebuttal to the classical view, which left little role for the Fed in combating unemployment.
他们认为，雇主常常希望通过支付高于最低必要工资的薪酬，来鼓舞员工的士气，而这间接导致了一些人难以找到工作。他们表示，在失业率高的时期，货币刺激能够扩大对于劳动力的需求——这是对传统理论的直接反驳，而在传统理论下，美联储对于抗击失业没有什么用武之地。
Thirty years later, Ms. Yellen and the debate about the Fed’s abilities have both moved from the theoretical world of academia to the Fed itself. As the central bank’s vice chair since 2010, she has pressed for stronger measures to reduce unemployment, battling the doubts of other Fed officials about the value of continuing to expand the Fed’s enormous stimulus campaign.
而30年后，耶伦女士，以及对于美联储促进就业的实际能力的争议，都已经从纯理论的学术界走向了美联储这一政府机构本身。2010年开始，耶伦就开始担任美联储的副主席，她一直推动采取更有力的举措来降低失业率。当其他美联储官员开始质疑，继续扩大美联储已然庞大的刺激计划是否还有价值时，耶伦对此做出了坚决的反驳。
Ms. Yellen, 67, now finds herself as President Obama’s nominee to succeed the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, at the end of January, largely because many Democrats view Ms. Yellen as the best person to press that stimulus campaign and to strengthen financial regulation. Senate Democrats prevented the nomination of President Obama’s first choice, Lawrence H. Summers.
奥巴马总统已经提名现年67岁的耶伦，在明年1月底接替本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)，担任美联储主席。原因很大程度上在于，许多民主党人认为耶伦是推动当前的经济刺激，并加强金融监管的最佳人选。迫于参议院民主党人的压力，奥巴马没有提名他心目中的第一人选，劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)。
For Ms. Yellen, who was drawn to study economics as a path into public service and aspired as a college student to work at the Fed, the top job at the central bank would be a logical if – until only recently – unexpected culmination. Her confirmation also would reinforce the Fed’s evolution from an institution run by market-wise bureaucrats focused on controlling inflation to an institution run by academics committed to a broader mission of steady growth and minimal unemployment.
耶伦在大学时代就立志进入美联储工作，选择学习经济学其实是投身公共服务的途径。对她来说，能够担任美国中央银行的负责人，应该是一个顺理成章的顶峰，但直到最近，登上这个顶峰都还显得出人意料。如果她的提名能够得到国会批准，也意味着美联储的转变得到了强化：不再由专注于控制通胀、拥有丰富市场经验的官员执掌，而是由立志承担更广泛使命的学术界人士执掌，其目标包括稳定增长和最大限度地扩大就业。
Ms. Yellen’s intellectual roots and leadership style both suggest that she would push somewhat more forcefully than Mr. Bernanke to extend the Fed’s stimulus campaign, according to a careful review of her career and interviews with more than two dozen colleagues and acquaintances.
通过仔细回顾耶伦的整个职业生涯，并采访二十多位她曾经的同事和友人而得到的信息显示出，耶伦的学术背景和领导风格意味着，与伯南克相比，她会更有力地推动扩大美联储的经济刺激计划。
She has expressed greater concern about the economic consequences of unemployment, a stronger conviction in the Fed’s ability to stimulate job growth and a greater willingness to tolerate a little more inflation in order to reduce unemployment more quickly. Until recently, her emphasis on unemployment would likely have disqualified her for the job, and it has already inspired opposition from some Senate Republicans and investors concerned that she would not be sufficiently vigilant in guarding against inflation.
跟伯南克相比，耶伦对失业的经济后果表现出了更大的担忧，同时也更加坚信美联储能够刺激就业增长。为了更快地降低失业率，她也更愿意容忍略高一些的通胀水平。由于她对失业率如此重视，直到不久之前，人们似乎还觉得她没有资格担任美联储主席，而她的态度也促使一些参议院共和党人和投资者，对她的提名表达了反对，原因是担忧她在对抗通胀方面缺乏足够的警觉。
Ms. Yellen is also a more assertive leader than Mr. Bernanke and appears less averse to conflict. While both encourage open debate and seek to make decisions by consensus, Ms. Yellen has been a more vocal and persistent advocate for her own views. Mr. Bernanke has allowed Fed officials to air their views freely, while Ms. Yellen has expressed concern that the cacophony undermines the Fed’s effectiveness by sowing confusion about the direction of policy.
跟伯南克相比，耶伦也是一位更强势的领导人，而且看上去不那么抗拒冲突。她和伯南克都鼓励公开辩论、决策时寻求共识，但是耶伦更愿意发表意见，会坚持捍卫自己的观点。伯南克允许美联储官员自由发表意见，但是耶伦曾对此表示担忧，认为不一致的声音会让公众对政策的方向产生困惑，从而损害美联储政策的效力。
“I think she is fundamentally committed to continuity, that we still have a problem and we still need monetary policy to be doing a fair amount,” said Christina D. Romer, a former chairwoman of Mr. Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers and a close friend of Ms. Yellen. “There’s a toughness there. And I think there’s a toughness to her that there isn’t in Bernanke.”
克里斯蒂娜·D·罗默(Christina D. Romer)曾在奥巴马总统的经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)担任主席，也是耶伦的密友。她说，“我认为她从根本上支持政策的延续性，认为我们现在仍然面临着困难，还需要货币政策发挥相当的作用。这里能体现出她的强硬，我认为她本人拥有伯南克没有的强硬。”
Yet it is easy to overstate the changes Ms. Yellen likely would bring. She would be the first Democrat to lead the Fed in nearly three decades, but a liberal central banker is something different from – and more conservative than – a liberal politician. She was instrumental in the Fed’s decision last year to declare a target of 2 percent annual inflation, and has shown only a very limited willingness to tolerate higher inflation.
但也不应夸大耶伦可能带来的改变。她会是近30年来担任美联储主席的第一位民主党人，但自由派的中央银行官员跟自由派的政治人物并不是一回事，前者会更保守一些。去年，美联储决定将年度通胀目标设定在2%，耶伦在背后起到了关键作用。然而对于更高的通胀，她只表现出了有限的容忍意愿。
On regulatory issues, too, Ms. Yellen’s views are closer to those of the Obama administration than to those of the left-leaning Democrats most fervently seeking her nomination. She believes markets are imperfect and require significant regulation. But she favored the emergence in the 1990s of financial giants like Citigroup and has not supported calls for their breakup.
在金融监管方面，耶伦的态度也跟奥巴马政府的观点更加接近，跟热情要求提名她的左翼民主党人反倒没有那么相似。耶伦认为市场是不完美的，需要相当程度的监管。然而，她对于90年代诸如花旗集团(Citigroup)等金融巨头的崛起持赞许态度，也并未支持过拆分这些金融巨头的呼声。
And Ms. Yellen may find her own instincts constrained by the increasingly restive minority of Fed officials who want to start pulling back from the stimulus campaign.
而且，耶伦恐怕还会发现自己的愿望受到掣肘，因为占少数的一些美联储官员越发难以管束，他们想要开始撤回刺激计划。
Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas – who will become a voting member of the Fed’s policy-making committee next year as part of a regular rotation – is among those officials. Of Ms. Yellen, he said last week, “She’s wrong on policy, but she’s a darn good, decent, wonderful person.”
按照轮值安排，达拉斯联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas)行长理查德·W·费舍尔(Richard W. Fisher)明年将在美联储负责制定政策的委员会中，成为有表决权的成员。费舍尔正是这一小群官员中的一位。上周，他对耶伦评价道，“她的政策是错误的，但她本人是一个特别好、很正派、也很了不起的人。”
Ms. Yellen, like many economists of her generation, was drawn to the field by an interest in the Great Depression. Economics allowed her to combine a love for the rigor of mathematics with a desire to work on issues affecting people’s lives.
跟许多年龄相仿的经济学家一样，耶伦是因为对于大萧条(Great Depression)感兴趣，才进入经济学领域的。学习经济学，结合了她对于数学的喜爱，同时也满足了她的一种渴求：解答那些影响民众生活的问题。
Born in Brooklyn in 1946, she was raised in Bay Ridge, a middle-class neighborhood across the waterfront from Staten Island. Her mother, a teacher with an interest in finance, stayed home to raise Janet and her brother, John. Her father, a family doctor, saw patients in a home office he closed on Wednesday afternoons so the family could spend time together.
耶伦于1946年生于纽约布鲁克林区，在贝瑞吉(Bay Ridge)长大，这个滨水的中产阶级社区与斯塔滕岛(Staten Island)隔河相望。她的母亲是一位对金融感兴趣的教师，为了照顾耶伦和她的兄弟约翰，选择了留在家里。耶伦的父亲是一位家庭医生，在家接诊病人。一般周三下午会关门歇业，这样全家人就能够有时间聚在一起。
Some of Ms. Yellen’s classmates at Fort Hamilton High School, from which she graduated in 1963, remember a smart and devoted student who seemed a little removed from their teenage world of music, parties and political ferment.
1963年，耶伦毕业于汉密尔顿堡高中(Fort Hamilton High School)。在她同学的印象里，她是一个聪明又执着的学生，似乎抽离于那个充满音乐、派对和政治骚动的青少年世界。
Each year, the editor of the student newspaper interviewed the class valedictorian. Ms. Yellen was both, so she interviewed herself. She talked about her love of travel, her rock collection – “I’ve been collecting rocks since I was eight and have over 200 different specimens” – and her plans for college.
每年，学生报纸的编辑都会去采访代表班级发表毕业演说的人。耶伦既是编辑，又是演说人，所以她自己采访了自己。她在采访中谈到了对于旅行的热爱，还有她收藏的石头——“我从8岁就开始收藏石头，拥有超过200多块不同的石块样本。”她还谈到了自己念大学的计划。
“I’ve decided to major in math or anthropology or economics or …” she wrote. After enrolling at Brown University, it did not take long to narrow the list.
她写道，“我决定主修数学，或者人类学，或者经济学，或者……”在被布朗大学(Brown University)录取之后，她很快就确定了目标。
“She took her first economics course and came home and gave me the one-hour lecture on why economics was the greatest thing going,” Susan Grosart, a childhood friend, said, recalling the Christmas vacation of their freshman year. “It was pretty obvious from then on that that was her passion.”
苏珊·格罗萨特(Susan Grosart)是耶伦儿时的朋友，她回忆起大一那年圣诞假期时的情景。格罗萨特说，“她上了自己的第一门经济学课程，回到家后，给我发表了一个小时的演讲，告诉我为什么经济学是最棒的事情。很明显，从那时开始，她的热情就全都放在经济学上了。”
Ms. Yellen decided to pursue a doctorate at Yale University after hearing a speech by James Tobin, the economist whom she still regards as her intellectual hero. Mr. Tobin was a staunch defender of the view that government policy could lift an economy from recession. She also admired the way he mixed academic work with public service.
后来，耶伦听了詹姆斯·托宾(James Tobin)的一场演讲，由此决定前往耶鲁大学(Yale University)攻读博士学位。直到今天，耶伦仍然认为托宾是她心目中知识分子里的英雄。有观点认为政府政策能够将陷入衰退的经济挽救回来，托宾正是这一观点的坚定捍卫者。耶伦也十分欣赏托宾将学术工作和服务公众结合起来的做法。
“He encouraged his students to do work that was about something,” Ms. Yellen told The Yale Daily News after Mr. Tobin’s death in 2002. “Work that would not only meet a high intellectual standard, but would improve the well-being of mankind.” Ms. Yellen and Mr. Akerlof spent much of the 1980s trying to understand unemployment. The couple met in 1977 in a cafeteria at the Fed, where both had taken research positions. Ms. Yellen had not secured tenure after six years as a junior professor at Harvard University; Mr. Akerlof had been denied a full professorship at Berkeley.
在2002年托宾去世之后，耶伦接受《耶鲁每日新闻》(Yale Daily News)采访时说，“托宾鼓励他的学生做有意义的工作。不仅能达到很高的智力要求，而且能够改善人类福祉的工作。”耶伦和阿克洛夫在20世纪80年代的大部分时间里，一直都在努力了解失业的方方面面。这对夫妇1977年初次见面，地点就在美联储的餐厅，当时两个人都在美联储担当研究职位。耶伦曾经在哈佛大学(Harvard University)从事过6年初级的教授工作，但没有获得终身教职，而阿克洛夫在加州大学伯克利分校的教授申请也被驳回了。
“We liked each other immediately and decided to get married,” Mr. Akerlof wrote in a personal history after winning the Nobel Prize in 2001. “Not only did our personalities mesh perfectly, but we have also always been in all but perfect agreement about macroeconomics. Our lone disagreement is that she is a bit more supportive of free trade than I.”
“我们立即就喜欢上了对方，决定要结婚，”阿克洛夫在2001年获得诺贝尔奖后，在一篇自述文章中写道。“我们不仅在性格上十分投契，而且在宏观经济学方面，我们的意见也始终高度一致。唯一的分歧是，她对自由贸易的支持比我多一点。”
They were both Keynesians, believers in the view that people act irrationally, markets function imperfectly and the resulting problems are not self-correcting; the government must help.
他们都是凯恩斯主义者，相信人的行为是不理性的，市场的运行也不完善，由此产生的问题无法自行纠正，政府必须加以干预。
“While admirers of capitalism, we also to a certain extent believe it has limitations that require government intervention in markets to make them work,” Ms. Yellen said in a 2012 interview with Berkeley’s business school magazine.
耶伦在2012年接受加州大学伯克利分校商学院的杂志采访时说，“我们虽然欣赏资本主义，但在一定程度上，我们也相信它有自身的局限性，需要政府来干预市场，以使它正常运作。”
In the summer of 1981, after returning to Berkeley, the couple were looking simultaneously for child care and for an explanation of an old riddle: The persistence of unemployment. As it happened, they would find both in the same place.
1981年夏天回到伯克利后，这对夫妇在一边寻找照看孩子的人，一边试图解释一个长期以来的谜题：失业的持久性。结果，他们在同一个地方解决了这两个问题。
“Faculty couple seeks child care person,” read the classified ad in the July 24, 1981, edition of The Daily Californian, Berkeley’s student newspaper. “Good pay.”
“教师夫妇寻找照看孩子的保姆，待遇优。”1981年7月24日，伯克利的学生报纸《加州人日报》(The Daily Californian)的分类广告里登出了这样一则启事。
It may seem obvious that many people without jobs would rather be working, but it is not so easy to explain why they cannot find work simply by reducing the price of their labor until companies find it profitable to hire them. In other words, during periods of high unemployment, why don’t companies cut wages rather than laying off workers?
很多失业者都希望上班，这一点似乎显而易见，但不那么容易解释的是：他们为什么不可以通过一直降低自己劳动力的价格，直到企业认为雇佣他们有利可图，来找到工作呢？仅靠把工资降低到公司雇佣他们可以盈利的水平，他们为什么找不到工作？换句话说，在失业率高企的时期，为何公司会裁员而不是降薪？
The answer put forward by Ms. Yellen and Mr. Akerlof sprung from their observation that people often overpaid baby sitters. They argued in a series of papers that many employers chose to pay workers more than the cost of replacements because higher morale resulted in higher productivity. During recessions, when the market price of labor is falling, employers similarly refrain from cutting wages because lower morale would diminish productivity. Employers do not save money if output falls too.
耶伦和阿克洛夫观察到人们往往会多付给保姆钱，受此启发，他们给出了上述问题的答案。两人在一系列论文中论证道，很多雇主付给员工的薪酬，超过了找人替换他们的成本，因为士气提高了，生产力也会提高。在经济衰退期，劳动力的市场价格下降时，雇主同样也不愿削减工资，因为如果士气受到打击，生产力也会下降。而如果产出减少，雇主在工资上省的钱也就白省了。
“Firms don’t just try to pay as little as possible to get the needed bodies on board; when there is unemployment, they ask themselves how wage cuts would affect the behavior of the employees,” Ms. Yellen said in a 1995 interview. “Would they quit or feel dissatisfied and work less hard on the firm’s behalf if they feel that wage policies are unfair?”
耶伦在1995年的一次采访中说，“雇主并不会一心只想花尽可能少的钱招到合适的人；当失业率较高时，雇主也会考虑到减薪对员工行为的影响：如果员工觉得工资政策不公平，他们会辞职，还是会因为心怀不满而在工作中偷懒？”
This reluctance to adjust wages, in turn, helps to explain why monetary policy works. When the Fed tries to stimulate the economy by increasing the availability of money, it is clear that spending increases. But economists have long debated whether the result is that people buy more goods and services or simply pay higher prices for the same things. In other words, does monetary stimulus just cause inflation, or can it also produce economic growth?
这种不愿调整工资的心态，反过来又有助于解释为什么货币政策会奏效。当美联储通过提高货币供应量来刺激经济增长时，支出显然会增加。但经济学家们长期以来都在争论，其结果是人们购买了更多的商品和服务，还是只是为同样的东西支付了更高的价格。换句话说，货币刺激到底是仅仅是导致了通货膨胀，还是也促进了经济增长？
The argument hinged on whether prices adjusted quickly. Defenders of monetary stimulus argued that the price of labor, in particular, was “sticky” – wages often did not adjust quickly. People were spending 10 percent more money, companies were earning 10 percent more, but wages remained the same. As a result, companies could afford more workers.
这个问题取决于价格是否会迅速调整。货币刺激的辩护者认为，劳动力价格尤其具有“粘性”——工资往往不会迅速得到调整。人们多花了10%的钱，公司多赚了10%，但工资仍然不变。因此，公司就可以雇得起更多的员工。
Ms. Yellen and Mr. Akerlof saw their theory as an explanation for the stickiness of wages. Perceptions of fairness, they said, might not be immediately affected by changes in the money supply. At least some employers would not adjust wages. And as a result, stimulus could increase growth.
耶伦和阿克洛夫认为，他们的理论是对工资粘性的一种解释。他们说，货币供应量的变化，可能不会立即影响到人们对公平的感觉。至少会有部分雇主不会调整员工的工资。这样一来，刺激政策就会促进经济增长。
Ms. Yellen’s first term on the Fed’s board of governors, for three years beginning in 1994, foreshadowed the positions she has taken in recent years.
耶伦在联邦储备委员会的第一届任期是从1994年开始的3年时间，她在当时的表现，预示了她近年来采取的立场。
President Clinton nominated her alongside another liberal academic, the Princeton economist Alan S. Blinder, to temper the market-oriented conservatism of the Fed’s chairman, Alan Greenspan. Appointing academics was an unusual step at the time. When Ms. Yellen met Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen at his home outside San Diego – while Mr. Akerlof waited outside in a rental car – she came armed with examples of the research insights she could bring to policy making.
克林顿总统为了牵制美联储主席艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)以市场为导向的保守主义倾向，任命她和另一位自由派学者、普林斯顿大学经济学家艾伦·布林德(Alan S. Blinder)为联邦储备委员会委员。在当时，任命学者担任这样的职位很不寻常。耶伦前往财政部部长劳埃德·本特森(Lloyd Bentsen)在圣迭戈城外的家中与他会面时，事先准备了一些可以在制定政策时运用到的研究成果的例子。当时阿克洛夫正在外面一辆租来的车上等着她。
Ms. Yellen was the rare Fed official to challenge Mr. Greenspan and succeed. In 1996, she marshaled academic research, including a paper she had encouraged Mr. Akerlof to write, to argue that the Fed should seek to moderate inflation rather than eliminate it. The research showed that a little inflation helped to minimize unemployment. Employers that were reluctant to impose wage cuts could instead allow inflation to erode the real value of wages, allowing them to reduce labor costs.
能够挑战格林斯潘并且取胜的美联储官员寥寥无几，耶伦就是其中之一。1996年，她以一些学术研究为依据，其中包括她鼓励阿克洛夫撰写的一篇论文，论证美联储应该寻求调节通胀，而不是消除通胀。这些研究表明，小幅的通胀有助于降低失业率。不愿意降低员工薪资的雇主，可能会愿意让通胀蚕食工资的真实价值，从而降低劳动力成本。
“I think she’s just entirely too easy money,” Julian Robertson, the noted investor, said Monday on CNBC, arguing that her tolerance of inflation could lead to excesses like the run-up in house prices that led to the financial crisis. “I think we’ve got to remember that we’re not very far from the last bubble bursting.”
知名投资人朱利安·罗伯逊(Julian Robertson)周一在CNBC上称，“我觉得，她太热衷于宽松的货币政策了。”他认为耶伦对通胀的容忍可能导致房价飙升那样的过剩，正是房价飙升引发了这次金融危机。“我觉得，我们必须记住，我们才刚摆脱了最近一次的泡沫破裂。”
Ms. Yellen was less successful in influencing fiscal policy during a two-year stint as the head of Mr. Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisers. A careful thinker who likes to consider issues from many sides, she was not well matched to the work of an internal think tank expected to offer quick commentary on a wide range of economic issues. She also found herself outside the circle of the president’s closest advisers.
领导克林顿政府经济顾问委员会的两年时间里，耶伦在影响财政政策方面不甚成功。她是慎思之人，喜欢从多个方面考虑问题，不太适合需要对各种经济问题迅速做出评论的内部智库工作。她还发现，自己并不属于克林顿最亲密幕僚的圈子。
Ms. Yellen returned to the Fed in 2004 as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, one of the 12 branches that conduct research, supervise local banks and participate in setting monetary policy.
2004年，耶伦回到联储系统，担任旧金山联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco)行长。美联储有12家这样的分支机构，负责进行研究、监管地方银行，并参与制定货币政策。
Ms. Yellen demonstrated considerable economic insight over the next several years. She was the first Fed official, in 2005, to describe the rise in housing prices as a bubble that might damage the economy. She was also the first, in 2008, to say that the economy had fallen into recession. And in early 2009, she warned of an “extended period of stagnation,” dismissing concerns about imminent inflation.
接下来的几年里，耶伦展现了相当深刻的经济见解。在联储系统的官员中，她于2005年率先提出房价高企是可能损害经济的泡沫。2008年，同样是她率先宣称经济已陷入衰退。到了2009年初，她对“漫长的停滞期”发出警告，驳斥了通胀即将来临的担忧。
Her warnings before the crisis, however, were tentative and inconsistent. “I never said for sure there was a bubble, but that it was a possibility,” Ms. Yellen said in September 2006. “I guess I was inclined to think maybe there was. But I have seen what has happened in the last year or so, and now I’m more dubious.” Moreover, she did not advocate for a change in Fed policy.
不过，她在本轮危机前发出的几次警告并不坚定，也不一致。“我从未肯定地说泡沫出现了，只是说有这种可能性，”耶伦2006年9月称。“我想，自己当时倾向于认为或许是有的。不过，我已经看到了过去一年左右的情况，现在更加不确定了。”而且，她也未曾提倡改变联储系统的政策。
The San Francisco Fed also did little to constrain the excesses and abuses of banks under its supervision, including two of the nation’s largest mortgage lenders, Wells Fargo and Countrywide Financial. Its performance was no worse than the other regional reserve banks, however. They were all taking orders from the Fed’s board of governors, which had issued instructions not to scrutinize the subprime lending arms of banks like Wells Fargo.
旧金山联储银行也没有采取什么行动来控制监管范围内银行的胡作非为，包括两家美国大型抵押贷款机构：富国银行(Wells Fargo)和全美金融服务公司(Countrywide Financial)。不过，旧金山联储银行的表现并不逊色于其他地区性联储银行。它们都听从美联储委员会的指挥，而后者下达的指令是，无需严格监察富国银行等机构的次贷分支。
Although Ms. Yellen had no formal role in financial supervision, she requested monthly briefings and sought to raise alarms in Washington. She did not, however, try to constrain lenders unilaterally. “I honestly don’t know if we could have done that,” she told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010. “I don’t think we felt empowered to do it.”
尽管耶伦在金融监管方面并无正式职责，她还是要求每月听取情况汇总，并曾寻求向华盛顿发出警报。不过，她未曾尝试单方面限制借贷机构。“说实话，我不知道我们是否可以那样做，”她2011年告诉金融危机调查委员会(Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission)。“我不认为，我们当时觉得有权力这么做。”
Ms. Yellen’s views have prevailed so far. She is not personally close with Mr. Bernanke, but they respect each other and have broadly agreed about monetary policy, according to people familiar with the relationship. Together with a number of allies, they forged a consensus in the fall of 2012 for the Fed to expand both of its principal campaigns to spur job creation: more asset purchases, and an extended commitment to low interest rates.
耶伦的观点如今已成为主流。知情人士称，她与伯南克的个人关系并不紧密，但他们相互尊敬，在货币政策方面的观点大体一致。与多名同盟者一起，两人于2012年秋促成了美联储的共识，也就是要同时采用两大战略来刺激就业岗位的创造：一方面增加资产购买，另一方面延长对低息的承诺。
Ms. Yellen has largely avoided public comment since June, seeking to avoid any impression that she is campaigning for Mr. Bernanke’s job. It seems likely that she will next speak at a confirmation hearing later this year.
自6月起，耶伦基本回避公开做出任何评论，努力避免留下印象，她在竞选伯南克即将空出的职位。目前看来，她下次开口很可能是在今年晚些时候的提名确认听证会上。
But her views have held remarkably steady over the last three decades: When unemployment is high, the Fed has an obligation to try.
但她的观点在过去三十年里异常稳定：失业率高企的时候，美联储有义务做出尝试。
Returning to Yale in 1999, Ms. Yellen summarized the lesson she had learned from Professor Tobin and carried with her into public service.
1999年重返耶鲁大学的时候，耶伦总结了从托宾教授那里学到并带入自身公共服务生涯的经验。
“Will capitalist economies operate at full employment in the absence of routine intervention? Certainly not,” she said. “Do policy makers have the knowledge and ability to improve macroeconomic outcomes rather than make matters worse? Yes.”
“在没有常规干预的情况下，资本主义经济能否实现充分就业？肯定不能，”她说。“决策者是否拥有知识与能力来改善对宏观经济产生的效果，而不会弄巧成拙？是的。”