SAN FRANCISCO — For years, a school principal’s job was to make sure students were not creating a ruckus in the hallways or smoking in the bathroom. Vigilance ended at the schoolhouse gates.
旧金山——过去许多年里，学校校长的职责就是确保学生们不在走廊里打闹，或是在洗手间里吸烟。出了校舍大门，警报便宣告解除。
Now, as students complain, taunt and sometimes cry out for help on social media, educators have more opportunities to monitor students around the clock. And some schools are turning to technology to help them. Several companies offer services to filter and glean what students do on school networks; a few now offer automated tools to comb through off-campus postings for signs of danger. For school officials, this raises new questions about whether they should — or legally can — discipline children for their online outbursts.
如今，学生会在社交媒体上发牢骚、冷嘲热讽，有时还会高声呼救，而教育工作者则拥有更多对学生实行24小时监控的便利条件。有些学校正利用科技助自己一臂之力。若干企业提供相关服务，可以过滤并搜集学生发在学校网络上的信息；少数几家公司目前还推出了自动化的工具，便于筛查校外发在网络上的带有危险迹象的帖子。对于校方而言，这就提出了一些新的问题：他们是否应该因孩子们在网上的发泄而加以管教？他们又是否可以合法地这样做？
The problem has taken on new urgency with the case of a 12-year-old Florida girl who committed suicide after classmates relentlessly bullied her online and offline.
新近发生的一宗案件让问题变得更为紧迫。佛罗里达州一名12岁的女孩，不堪忍受同学在线上和线下的无情欺辱，最终自杀身亡。
Two girls — ages 12 and 14 — who the authorities contend were her chief tormentors were arrested this month after one posted a Facebook comment about her death.
当局声称，领头欺负她的是年龄分别为12岁和14岁的两个女孩。两人已于本月遭到拘捕，其中一人被捕前就她的死亡在Facebook上发了条评论。
Educators find themselves needing to balance students’ free speech rights against the dangers children can get into at school and sometimes with the law because of what they say in posts on Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Courts have started to weigh in.
孩子们有可能因为在Facebook、Twitter 和 Tumblr上发表的言论而在学校陷入危险境地，有时还可能会触犯法律。教育工作者发现，有必要在学生言论自由的权利与这样的风险之间进行权衡。法院也已开始介入相关争议。
In September, a federal appeals court in Nevada, for instance, sided with school officials who suspended a high school sophomore for threatening, through messages on Myspace, to shoot classmates. In 2011, an Indiana court ruled that school officials had violated the Constitution when they disciplined students for posting pictures on Facebook of themselves at a slumber party, posing with rainbow-colored lollipops shaped like phalluses.
例如，今年9月，内华达州一家上诉法院站在了勒令一名高二学生休学的校方一边。这名学生在Myspace上发布信息，扬言要枪杀同学。2011年，印第安纳州一家法院裁定校方的做法违宪。该校几名学生在Facebook上发布了参加睡衣派时与状如阴茎的虹彩棒棒糖的合影，学校以此为由对其进行了惩罚。
“It is a concern and in some cases, a major problem for school districts,” said Daniel A. Domenech, executive director of the American Association of School Administrators, which represents public school superintendents.
“这是各个学区都关心的问题，在某些情况下，甚至是个大难题，”美国学校管理人员协会(American Association of School Administrators)的总干事丹尼尔·A·多梅内奇(Daniel A. Domenech)说。该协会代表公立学校的学监。
Surveillance of students’ online speech, he said, can be cumbersome and confusing. “Is this something that a student has the right to do, or is this something that flies against the rules and regulations of a district?”
他表示，对学生网络言论的监控，有时既繁琐又复杂。“某件事是学生有权去做的吗？还是说这样做违反了学区的规章制度？”
Interviews with educators suggest that surveillance of students off campus is still mostly done the old-fashioned way, by relying on students to report trouble or following students on social networks. Tracking students on social media comes with its own risks: One principal in Missouri resigned last year after accusations that she had snooped on students using a fake Facebook account. “It was our children she was monitoring,” said one Twitter user who identified herself as Judy Rayford, after the news broke last year, without, she added, “authorization” from children or parents.
对教育工作者的采访表明，他们对学生进行校外监控时采取的大多是老办法，依赖学生主动报告问题，或者在社交网站上关注学生。在社交网络上追踪学生是有风险的：去年，密苏里州的一名校长被指利用虚假的Facebook帐号窥探学生的信息，随后辞去了职务。“她监控的是我们的孩子，”相关新闻去年曝光后，用户名为朱迪·雷福德(Judy Rayford)的Twitter用户写道。她还表示，对方并未从孩子或父母那里得到“授权”。
But technology is catching on.
不过，技术手段正在流行。
In August, officials in Glendale, a suburb in Southern California, paid Geo Listening, a technology company, to comb through the social network posts of children in the district. The company said its service was not to pry, but to help the district, Glendale Unified, protect its students after suicides by teenagers in the area.
今年8月，南加州郊区格伦代尔的官员雇用科技公司Geo监听(Geo Listening)来筛查学区内的孩子发在社交网络上的帖子。该公司称，服务的主旨并非窥探隐私，而是在学区发生青少年自杀事件之后，帮助保护当地的孩子。
Students mocked the effort on Twitter, saying officials at G.U.S.D., the Glendale Unified School District, would not “even understand what I tweet most of the time, they should hire a high school slang analyst #shoutout2GUSD.”
这种努力在Twitter上遭到了学生的取笑。有人宣称，格伦代尔联合学区（Glendale Unified School District，简称GUSD）的官员“甚至根本不懂我大多数时候在Twitter上发的内容，他们应该雇个高中俚语分析师#shoutout2GUSD”。（GUSD好样的——译注）
“We should be monitoring gusd instead,” one Twitter user wrote after an instructor was arrested on charges of sexual abuse; the instructor pleaded not guilty.
一名被控性骚扰的教师遭到拘捕后，有Twitter用户表示，“我们应该改成监控GUSD。”该教师提出无罪抗辩。
Chris Frydrych, the chief executive of Geo Listening, based in Hermosa Beach, also in Southern California, declined to explain how his company’s technology worked, except to say that it was “a sprinkling of technology and a whole lot of human capital.” He said Geo Listening looked for keywords and sentiments on posts that could be viewed publicly. It cannot, for instance, read anyone’s Facebook posts that are designated for “friends” or “friends of friends.”
Geo公司同样位于南加州，总部在赫莫萨比奇。首席执行官克里斯·弗里德里希(Chris Frydrych)不愿解释公司的技术是如何运行的，仅仅表示，它是“少量的科技成分加上大量的人力资本”。他说，Geo搜索的是可供公开查阅的帖子里出现的关键词和观点。举个例子，如果一个人把发在Facebook上的帖子设为仅对“朋友”或者“朋友的朋友”可见，那就无法被Geo读到。
But with Facebook’s announcement this month that teenagers will be permitted to post public status updates and images, Geo Listening and similar services will potentially have access to more information on that social network.
但Facebook本月的宣布意味着，青少年将可以公开分享自己的状态和图片。因此，Geo及类似的服务公司将有可能接触到更多来自社交网络的信息。
Glendale has paid Geo Listening $40,500 to monitor the social media posts. Mr. Frydrych declined to say which other schools his company works with, except to predict that by the end of the year, his company would have signed up 3,000 schools.
为了监控社交媒体上的帖子，格伦代尔已经向Geo公司支付了4.05万美元（约合24.7万元人民币）的酬劳。弗里德里希拒绝透露公司还为其他哪些学校服务，不过据他预计，截至年底，与公司签约的学校将达到3000所。
But when does protecting children from each other or from themselves turn into chilling free speech?
可是，从什么时候开始，保护孩子不受其他孩子或者自己的伤害，变成了对言论自由的禁锢？
John G. Palfrey Jr., head of Phillips Academy in Massachusetts, said he favored a middle ground. He follows his students on Twitter if they follow him, for instance, but he is wary of automated tools that try to conduct what he called National Security Agency-style surveillance.
马萨诸塞州菲利普斯学院(Phillips Academy)的校长小约翰·G·帕尔弗里(John G. Palfrey Jr.)说，他赞同采取中间立场。比方说，如果他的学生在Twitter上“关注”了他，那他也会关注他们。不过，他保持着对某些自动化工具的警惕之心，因为这些工具试图实施他口中的国家安全局(National Security Agency)式的监控。
That fine line seems to be equally confounding the courts.
那条微妙的分界线似乎同样令法院感到困惑。
In the Nevada case, a 16-year-old boy bragged on Myspace about having guns at home, and threatened to kill fellow students on a particular date. He also cited the 2007 massacre at Virginia Tech, in which a troubled student killed 32 students.
在上文提到的内华达州的案件中，一个16岁的男孩在Myspace上吹嘘，自己家中存有枪支，并扬言要在某个特定的日期杀死同学。他还提到了2007年发生在弗吉尼亚理工大学(Virginia Tech)的那场大屠杀。当时，一个问题学生枪杀了32名校友。
The boy ended up spending 31 days in a local jail and was suspended from school for 90 days. He then sued the district, saying his free speech rights had been violated.
最终，这名男孩在当地监狱里服刑31天，并被停学90天。他随即对学区提起诉讼，声称自己的言论自由权受到了侵犯。
The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the claim. It called his threats “alarming” and so specific that they presented “a real risk of significant disruption” to the school. Administrators were justified, the court ruled, for penalizing what was ostensibly off-campus speech.
第九巡回上诉法院(The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals)驳回了他的请求。法院称，他的威胁“很骇人”，而且极为具体，给学校带来了“构成严重干扰的真实风险”。法院裁定，管理者因为他在校外发布的言论而对他进行惩罚的做法是公正的。
“It’s going to be more and more of legal issues,” said Gretchen Shipley, a lawyer who represents school districts. “The ability to monitor is growing so quickly.”
“将来会产生越来越多的法律问题，”学区代表律师格雷琴·希普利(Gretchen Shipley)说。“监控能力提高得太快了。”
The Indiana case offers a contrast. In the summer of 2009, two incoming 10th graders at Churubusco High School posted what the court called “raunchy” pictures of themselves. Once school officials found out, the girls were suspended from extracurricular activities for the school year. The girls sued, saying their free speech rights had been violated. The school contended that its student handbook bars conduct that could “discredit” or “dishonor” it.
印第安那州的案件则提供了一个对照。2009年夏天，丘鲁武斯科高中(Churubusco High School)两名即将升入10年级的学生，发布了被法院形容为“粗俗”的一些自己的照片。校方发现后，勒令两个女孩在整个学年里暂停课外活动。女孩们提起诉讼，声称自己的言论自由权受到了侵犯。校方则辩称，在学生手册里明令禁止可能给学校“抹黑”或者令学校“蒙羞”的行为 。
The court found that prohibition too broad. The students’ pictures, “juvenile” though they were, did not cause “substantial disruption” at school, the court ruled, and even though it was just “crude humor,” it was protected speech. “No message of lofty social or political importance was conveyed, but none is required,” the court said.
法院认为，学校的禁令太过宽泛。法院裁定，虽然这两个学生的照片很“幼稚”，但并未在学校造成“严重干扰”，即便相关言论表现出的只有“粗俗的幽默”，也属受保护的言论。“其所传达的信息没有承载崇高的社会或者政治意义，但这些都不是必需的，”法院表示。