Parents who want to pay for their children’s college education but haven’t saved enough may consider tapping into either their home equity or their retirement accounts. Which is the smarter way to go?
做父母的如果想给孩子支付大学学费，却又没有攒够钱，他们可能就会考虑利用房屋净值，或拿退休金账户开刀。那么哪一种方式更明智呢？
“In an ideal world, you would not need to do either,” said Ann Minnium, the principal at Concierge Financial Planning in Scotch Plains, N.J.
“在理想情况下，这两种方式都不需要，”安·米尼姆(Ann Minnium)说。米尼姆是新泽西州斯科奇普莱恩斯镇(Scotch Plains)的财务规划咨询公司Concierge Financial Planning的负责人。
And the truth is, only 5 percent of families use home-equity lines, retirement accounts and other forms of parent credit to help pay for college, according to an annual survey of families with undergraduates by Sallie Mae, the nation’s largest private student lender. Grants and scholarships are the most common funding source. Some 65 percent of families of college students rely on them, up from 50 percent five years ago, according to Sallie Mae. 
根据美国最大的学生私人贷款公司Sallie Mae的年度调查，事实上，只有5%的家庭会动用房屋贷款、退休金账户以及其它形式的家长信用，来为孩子支付大学学费。而最常见的资金来源是助学金和奖学金。Sallie Mae的调查显示，有65%的大学生家庭依赖这这两种途径。而在5年前，这一比例尚为50%。
If alternative sources aren’t enough, however, Ms. Minnium said, “the home equity is less bad than the retirement.”
不过，如果用其它方法仍凑不够钱，米尼姆说：“动用房屋资产净值比退休金要好一点。”
Her reasoning is that people are unlikely to return what they take from retirement savings. “Then they don’t have what they need to retire,” she said, “and end up being a burden on their children, who they were trying to help in the first place.”
她的理由是，人们从退休金中预支的部分，一般就不会还回去了。“这样一来，他们退休的时候就没有足够的钱，”她说，“结果变成了子女的负担，而他们预支退休金的初衷，本来是想帮助子女的。”
Better to draw on the home equity — either by refinancing to a larger amount and taking out cash, or taking a home-equity loan or a home-equity line of credit (Heloc) — provided that it is well timed. But don’t borrow any cash before the student applies for federal financial aid, because once it’s in the bank, it will count as an asset, Ms. Minnium noted. Home equity, on the other hand, is not considered an asset on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or Fafsa, so long as the equity is in a principal place of residence.
动用房产净值是更好的选择——要么重新贷款，借入更大的数额并取现；要么申请一项房屋净值贷款(home-equity loan)或房屋净值信用度贷款（home-equity line of credit, 简称Heloc）——前提是时机要把握好。米尼姆提醒，不要在孩子尚未申请联邦经济资助的情况下借钱，因为资助款一旦入账，也会被算作一笔资产；而在进行联邦学生补助的自由申领(Falsa)时，房屋净值并不会被视为资产，除非这套房产不是申请者的主要住所。
Lauren Lyons Cole, a financial planner in Manhattan, agrees that retirement funds should be off limits (unless the savings are more than adequate). She recommends that parents see their child’s departure to college as an opportunity to begin separating out their finances, and that they require the student to take out loans.
曼哈顿的财务规划师劳伦·里昂·科尔(Lauren Lyons Cole)也认为，退休金动不得（除非退休储蓄有富余）。她建议家长，借着孩子上大学的机会学会经济独立，自己申请贷款。
Then, if the parents want to draw on their equity, she advises getting a home-equity line of credit, “probably at a slightly lower rate than the student loan, use that to pay down the loan and then gradually pay back the Heloc.”
在此基础上，如果家长想动用房屋净值，她建议申请房屋净值信用度，“Heloc的利率可能会比助学贷款低些，可以用这笔钱偿还助学贷款，然后再慢慢将Heloc还清。”
Robert B. Walsh, a partner of Lighthouse Financial Advisors in Red Bank, N.J., believes that the decision on which asset source to tap into should be based on the individual’s priorities. “I have clients who sit down and lament that they haven’t saved enough for retirement,” Mr. Walsh said. “But then they say the thing they’re most proud of is that they’ve paid for their kids’ education.”
新泽西州雷德班克(Red Bank)的财务规划咨询公司Lighthouse Financial Advisors的合伙人罗伯特·B·沃尔什(Robert B. Walsh)认为，到底动用哪笔资产作为资金源，应取决于个人的优先级考量。“我有些客户一坐下就会开始叹息自己没有存够退休金，”沃尔什说，“但是他们又说，能够资助孩子读书是他们最自豪的事。”
When it comes to drawing on home equity, he, too, favors using a Heloc to cover tuition costs, so long as the parents have a plan for how to pay it off, preferably within 10 years.
就动用房产净值而言，他也同样建议申请Heloc来抵偿学费成本，前提是家长要有一个还款计划，最好能在10年内还清。
A cash-out refinance, meanwhile, offers the advantage of a fixed interest rate, versus the variable rate on Helocs. The interest on both the mortgage and the line of credit is tax deductible for those filers who itemize. But, Mr. Walsh noted, home-equity indebtedness — as opposed to a mortgage used only to buy or build a home — is only deductible on amounts up to $100,000.
同时，可取现的重新贷款具有利率固定的优势，而Heloc的利率是浮动的。只要申请者将法定扣减项目分项列举出来，抵押贷款(mortgage)和信用度贷款(line of credit)的利率都是可以扣减税额的。但是沃尔什提醒，房产净值负债额(home-equity indebtedness)和仅用于买房或建房的抵押贷款不一样，只有当数额超过10万美元（约合人民币61万元）时才能扣减税额。
Regardless of how they draw on their assets, parents should not fall into the trap of taking on more than they can reasonably afford, Ms. Minnium advised.
米尼姆建议，无论怎样利用自己的资产，家长们都应注意不要落入过度借款以至无力偿还的困境里。
The same goes for college debt. “People have to give up the chase for Harvard and get a dose of reality,” she said. “If people cannot afford the education, then they should go for the state school.”
大学债也是一样。“大家不如放弃对哈佛的执念，现实一点，”她说，“要是承担不起那样的学费，就应该去州立学校。”