Kiran didn’t seem like the type of kid parents should worry about. “He was the easy one,” his father, Raghu, a physician, says. “He always wanted to please.” Unlike other children in his suburban St. Louis preschool, Kiran (a nickname his parents asked me to use to protect his identity) rarely disobeyed or acted out. If he dawdled or didn’t listen, Raghu (also a nickname) had only to count to five before Kiran hastened to tie his shoes or put the toys away. He was kind to other children; if a classmate cried, Kiran immediately approached. “Our little empath!” his parents proudly called him.
基兰(Kiran)看起来并不像是那种会让父母担心的小孩。“他是比较好带的孩子，”他的爸爸拉古(Raghu)是一位医生，他这样说：“他总想要让别人高兴。”基兰（为了保护孩子隐私，他的父母请我在文中使用他的昵称）在圣路易斯郊区上幼儿园，跟班上其他孩子不一样，他几乎很少不守规矩或者惹是生非。如果基兰磨磨蹭蹭或者不听大人话，拉古（同样是昵称）只要从一数到五，基兰就会赶紧系好鞋带，或者把玩具移走。他对别的孩子十分友好；如果班上有小朋友哭了，基兰会立刻凑过去。“我们的小善人！”他的父母这样骄傲地称呼他。
But there were worrisome signs. For one thing, unlike your typical joyful and carefree 4-year-old, Kiran didn’t have a lot of fun. “He wasn’t running around, bouncing about, battling to get to the top of the slide like other kids,” Raghu notes. Kiran’s mother, Elizabeth (her middle name), an engineer, recalls constant refrains of “Nothing is fun; I’m bored.” When Raghu and Elizabeth reminded a downbeat Kiran of their coming trip to Disney World, Kiran responded: “Mickey lies. Dreams don’t come true.”
但有些迹象让人不免担忧。其中一点是，跟通常整天高高兴兴、无忧无虑的四岁孩子不一样，基兰没有多少开心事。“他不会像其他小孩那样，跑来跑去，蹦蹦跳跳，打闹着跑到滑梯上，”拉古注意到这个问题。基兰的妈妈伊丽莎白（Elizabeth，她的中间名）是位工程师，她提到儿子总是将“什么都不好玩儿”或“我烦死了”挂在嘴边。父母跟没精打采的基兰说，他们马上就可以去迪士尼乐园玩了，基兰回答说：“米奇在说谎。梦想不可能成真。”
Over time, especially in comparison with Kiran’s even-keeled younger sister, it became apparent that guilt and worry infused Kiran’s thoughts. “We had to be really careful when we told him he did something wrong, because he internalized it quickly,” Raghu says. He was also easily frustrated. He wouldn’t dare count aloud until he had perfected getting to 10. Puzzles drove him nuts. After toying with a new set of Legos, he told his father, “I can’t do Legos.” He then roundly declared: “I will never do them. I am not a Legos person. You should take them away.”
随着时间推移，尤其是在跟基兰性格稳重的小妹妹比较后，有一点越来越明显：基兰的心中充满着自责与忧虑。“如果我们想要告诉他，他什么事情做错了，一定得非常注意才行，因为他会立刻就把它放到心上，”拉古说。而且基兰还很容易泄气。他一直等到自己能完美地数到10，才敢大声数数。拼图会让他大为光火。还有一次，在玩了新的一套乐高玩具时，他告诉爸爸：“我玩不了乐高。”接着他干脆宣布：“我再也不玩这东西了。我根本就不是玩乐高的人。你把它拿走。”
One weekend when he was 4, Kiran carried his blanket around as his mother ferried him from one child-friendly place to the next, trying to divert him. But even at St. Louis’s children’s museum, he was listless and leaned against the wall. When they got home, he lay down and said he couldn’t remember anything fun about the whole day. He was “draggy and superwhiny and seeming like he was in pain.” Elizabeth remembers thinking, Something is wrong with this kid.
在基兰四岁那年，一个周末，基兰抱着自己的小毯子，妈妈带着他从一个适宜儿童玩耍的地方换到另一个，想要让他开心起来。可是就算来到了圣路易斯儿童博物馆，他仍然没精打采地倚在墙上。回到家时，他躺了下来，说他想不起来这一整天有一件好玩的事情。他“非常疲沓，一肚子怨言，看起来好像有哪里不舒服”。伊丽莎白记得当时自己在想，这孩子肯定有什么地方不对头。
After talks with the director of Kiran’s preschool, who was similarly troubled by his behavior, and a round of medical Googling, Kiran’s parents took him to see a child psychiatrist. In the winter of 2009, when Kiran was 5, his parents were told that he had preschool depression, sometimes referred to as “early-onset depression.” He was entered into a research study at the Early Emotional Development Program at Washington University Medical School in St. Louis, which tracks the diagnosis of preschool depression and the treatment of children like Kiran. “It was painful,” Elizabeth says, “but also a relief to have professionals confirm that, yes, he has had a depressive episode. It’s real.”
基兰的父母在与对他的行为有类似困扰的幼儿园班主任沟通，接着在谷歌上查找了大量医学信息后，带他去看儿童精神病医生。2009年冬天，基兰满五岁，他的父母被告知，他患有学龄前抑郁症，有时又被称为“早发性抑郁”。他加入了华盛顿大学医学院（Washington University Medical School，位于圣路易斯）早期情感发展项目的一项研究性试验，这项试验将追踪学龄前抑郁症的诊断和像基兰这样的孩子的治疗。“当时很痛苦，”伊丽莎白说，“但同时，得到专业人士的诊断，知道没错，他确实出现了抑郁症状，这又让我们感到解脱。他的问题果真是存在的。”
Is it really possible to diagnose such a grown-up affliction in such a young child? And is diagnosing clinical depression in a preschooler a good idea, or are children that young too immature, too changeable, too temperamental to be laden with such a momentous label? Preschool depression may be a legitimate ailment, one that could gain traction with parents in the way that attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (A.D.H.D.) and oppositional defiant disorder (O.D.D.) — afflictions few people heard of 30 years ago — have entered the what-to-worry-about lexicon. But when the rate of development among children varies so widely and burgeoning personalities are still in flux, how can we know at what point a child crosses the line from altogether unremarkable to somewhat different to clinically disordered? Just how early can depression begin?
在如此年幼的儿童身上诊断这样一种成年疾病，这真的可行吗？在学龄前儿童身上确诊临床抑郁症是否真的是个好主意，抑或这么小的孩子实在是太不成熟、太变幻莫测、性格太多变了，因此不应该背负如此沉重的标签？学龄前抑郁症也许确实是一种法定疾病，能跟注意缺陷多动障碍(ADHD)和对立性反抗障碍(ODD)——30年前这些疾病还鲜为人知——一样赢得家长的欢迎，进入值得关注的词典新病种。可是，孩子们的发育速度千差万别，萌芽中的性格变化不定，我们又如何确信到了某一个临界点，一个孩子就从总体而言平凡无奇跨越为举止异常，达到了临床精神障碍的标准？抑郁症最早可从几岁起出现？
The answer, according to recent research, seems to be earlier than expected. Today a number of child psychiatrists and developmental psychologists say depression can surface in children as young as 2 or 3. “The idea is very threatening,” says Joan Luby, a professor of child psychiatry at Washington University School of Medicine, who gave Kiran his diagnosis and whose research on preschool depression has often met with resistance. “In my 20 years of research, it’s been slowly eroding,” Luby says of that resistance. “But some hard-core scientists still brush the idea off as mushy or psychobabble, and laypeople think the idea is ridiculous.”
据最近的研究显示，看来抑郁症出现的年纪早于我们的预期。现在有一批儿童精神病学家和发展心理学家表示，抑郁症最早可在两到三岁的幼儿身上显现。“这种想法十分吓人，”华盛顿大学医学院儿童精神病学教授琼·卢比(Joan Luby)是确诊基兰的医生，她关于学龄前抑郁症的研究常常会遇到阻力。“在我20年的研究中，它在一点点缓和下来，”卢比谈到了她面对的阻力。“但一些死硬派的科学家仍然认为这种理念或者过于伤感，或者纯属心理呓语，不值一哂，而外行人则认为这种想法荒唐可笑。”
For adults who have known depression, however, the prospect of early diagnosis makes sense. Kiran’s mother had what she now recognizes was childhood depression. “There were definite signs throughout my grade-school years,” she says. Had therapy been available to her then, she imagines that she would have leapt at the chance. “My parents knew my behavior wasn’t right, but they really didn’t know what to do.”
可是，对于了解抑郁症的成年人，早期诊断的发展前景是有意义的。基兰的妈妈说，现在她才意识到自己小时候也曾患有抑郁症。“在我读小学的那些年里出现了各种明确的迹象，”她说。如果当时她就能得到治疗，她相信自己一定会把握住机会。“我的父母知道我的举止不正常，但他们真的不知道该如何是好。”
LIKE MANY WHO treat depression, Daniel Klein, a professor of clinical psychology at State University of New York at Stony Brook, repeatedly heard from adult patients that they had depression their whole lives. “I’ve had this as long as I can remember,” Klein told me they said. “I became convinced that the roots of these conditions start very early.”
跟很多治疗抑郁症的医生一样，纽约州立大学石溪分校(State University of New York at Stony Brook)的临床心理学系教授丹尼尔·克莱恩(Daniel Klein)不断听到成年病人讲述自己从小就有抑郁症状。“自打我记事起就有抑郁症，”克兰恩这样对我描述病人的回忆。“于是我开始相信，这类症状的根子应该起源于非常年幼的时期。”
So Klein turned to the study of temperament and depressive tendencies in young children. About a decade later, he is one of several academics focusing on preschool depression.
于是克莱恩将研究转向幼儿的性格与抑郁趋势。十年过去了，他现在是仅有的几位专注于学龄前抑郁症的学者之一。
The history of mental illness has been, in many ways, an ongoing lowering of the bar to entry. Depression was originally seen as an adult problem with origins in childhood, rather than something that existed in children. The psychoanalytic view was that children didn’t have the mental capacity for depression; their superegos were not sufficiently developed. “One of the most important mental-health discoveries of the past 10 to 20 years has been that chronic mental illnesses are predominantly illnesses of the young,” says Daniel Pine, chief of the emotion-and-development branch in the Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program of the National Institute of Mental Health. They begin when we are young and affect us, often profoundly, during the childhood years, shaping the adults we become.
从很多方面来看，心理疾病在不断降低准入门槛。抑郁症起先被当作成年人的问题，人们认为它源于童年，但不是在儿童身上出现的疾病。精神分析学认为儿童并没有出现抑郁的心理能力，因为他们的超我还没有得到充分发展。“在过去10到20年来，心理健康最重大的发现之一就是慢性心理疾病在青少年人群中占很大的比例，”美国国家精神卫生研究院(National Institute of Mental Health)情绪与焦虑障碍症项目情绪与发展办公室的主任丹尼尔·派因(Daniel Pine)说。这种病症自我们幼年时开始萌发，在儿童时代产生影响，这种影响往往相当显著，并塑造着我们成年后的模样。
Controversy over whether major depression could occur in teenagers, something we now take as a given, persisted until the 1980s. First adolescents, then grade-school children were considered too psychologically immature to be depressed. Stigma was a major fear. “There was this big worry that once you labeled it, you actually had it,” explains Neal Ryan, a professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh. By the early 1990s psychiatrists had come to recognize that depression occurs in children of 8, 9 and 10.
关于青少年是否可出现重性抑郁症的争议一直延续至20世纪80年代，不过现在我们已经将此当作理所当然之事。人们先是认为青春期少年，接着认为小学儿童的心理还十分不成熟，因此不可能抑郁。而污名化也是人们的一大担忧。“人们十分担心一旦你贴上了标签，就真的得了病，”匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)儿童与青少年精神病学教授尼尔·瑞恩(Neal Ryan)解释说。但了20世纪90年代，精神病学家开始意识到，抑郁症状可出现在8-10岁的儿童身上。
Still, in 1990, when Luby first broached the subject of whether children could be depressed even before they entered school, her colleagues’ reactions ranged from disinterest to hostility. Then in the late ’90s, the study of early childhood entered a kind of vogue among academics and policy makers. This was the era of President Clinton’s White House Conference on Early Childhood Development and Learning, and there was a wave of interest in the importance of what was termed “0 to 3.” Researchers took a closer look at how sophisticated feelings like guilt and shame emerge before a child’s third birthday. In 1998, Luby got her first grant from the National Institute of Mental Health to begin a study of preschool depression.
虽然如此，但在1990年，当卢比首先提出儿童是否可能甚至会在上小学前就出现抑郁这个课题时，她的同事仍然要么无动于衷，要么充满敌意。到了90年代末，有关早期儿童的研究在学术界和政策制订者中盛极一时。此时正值克林顿总统治下的白宫召开儿童早期发展与学习研讨会，人们对“0到3岁”这个定义的重要性涌起了兴趣。研究者开始更密切地观察未满3岁的儿童出现的复杂情绪，比如内疚与羞愧。1998年，卢比从国家精神卫生研究院得到了第一笔项目拨款，着手对学龄前抑郁进行研究。
“We realized, Gee, maybe we better look more carefully at preschool, too,” Pine says. “And that’s where we are today. The issue of diagnosis of depression in preschoolers is being looked at very carefully right now.”
“我们意识到，老天，也许我们真应该更关注学龄前阶段，”派因说，“于是，我们取得了今日之成绩。现在，对学龄前儿童抑郁症的诊断，已经得到了非常密切的关注。”
Diagnosis of any mental disorder at this young age is subject to debate. No one wants to pathologize a typical preschooler’s tantrums, mood swings and torrent of developmental stages. Grandparents are highly suspicious; parents often don’t want to know. “How many times have you heard, ‘They’ll grow out of it’ or ‘That’s just how he is’?” says Melissa Nishawala, a child psychiatrist at the New York University Child Study Center.
对于年纪这么小的儿童给予任何有关精神障碍的诊断，都值得探讨。没人想要将学龄前儿童常见的发脾气、情绪波动和发育中出现的波澜都归于病态。爷爷奶奶们持高度怀疑的态度；父母们则往往不想知道真相。“你曾多少次听人说，‘等他们长大了就好了’或者‘他生性就这样’？”纽约大学儿童研究中心的儿童精神病学家梅丽莎·尼沙瓦拉(Melissa Nishawala)说。
And some in the field have reservations, too. Classifying preschool depression as a medical disorder carries a risk of disease-mongering. “Given the influence of Big Pharma, we have to be sure that every time a child’s ice cream falls off the cone and he cries, we don’t label him depressed,” cautions Rahil Briggs, an infant-toddler psychologist at Children’s Hospital at Montefiore in New York. Though research does not support the use of antidepressants in children this young, medication of preschoolers, often off label, is on the rise. One child psychologist told me about a conference he attended where he met frustrated drug-industry representatives. “They want to give these kids medicines, but we can’t figure out the diagnoses.” As Daniel Klein warns, “Right now the problem may be underdiagnosis, but these things can flip completely.”
一些业界人士同样持保留态度。将学龄前抑郁视为障碍症，会有兜售疾病之嫌。“考虑到大型药企的影响力，我们也许应该确保，千万不要在哪个小孩为了甜筒冰淇淋掉下来而大哭时，就将他打上抑郁症的标签，”纽约蒙特费罗儿童医院(Children’s Hospital at Montefiore)婴幼儿心理学家拉希尔·布里格斯(Rahil Briggs)提醒说。尽管研究并未支持在如此年幼的孩子身上使用抗抑郁药，但对学龄前儿童用药的现象正在抬头，而且用药时往往超出了标签指定用途。一个儿童心理学家跟我谈到了他出席的一次研讨会的情况，在会上，他碰到了一些郁闷的制药业代表。“他们想要给这些儿童药物，但我们还没搞定诊断标准。”而丹尼尔·克莱恩则警告称：“现在的问题也许是未能作出全面诊断，但这种情况有可能彻底反转过来。”
Depression, with its recurrent, long-lasting symptoms and complex of medications, is a particularly brutal diagnosis for a young child. “Mood disorders are scary to acknowledge, and depression is especially scary,” says Mary J. O’Connor, a child psychologist, professor and founder of the infant and preschool clinic at U.C.L.A. “When we sit down with a parent and give them a diagnosis of depression, they have this fatalistic idea of something devastating and terrifying and permanent.”
抑郁症的症状往往反复持续出现，治疗千头万绪，对于幼儿来说这是个尤为残酷的诊断。“承认患心境障碍，是件令人惊恐的事情，而抑郁症尤其吓人，”加州大学洛杉矶分校的儿童心理学家、教授以及婴儿和学龄前儿童诊断创始人玛丽·奥康纳(Mary J. O’Connor)说：“当我们与家长坐下来，告知其子女患有抑郁症时，他们会有一种听天由命的感觉，好像这是件毁灭性的、令人恐惧的、而且永远不可能改变的事情。”
And parents tend to feel responsible. Children of depressed parents are two to three times as likely to have major depression. Maternal depression in particular has been shown to have serious effects on development, primarily through an absence of responsiveness — the parent’s conscious and consistent mirroring and reciprocity of an infant’s gaze, babble and actions. “Depressed mothers often respond to their babies from the beginning in ways that dampen their enthusiasm and joy,” says Alicia Lieberman, a professor in the department of psychiatry at the University of California, San Francisco. This is problematic, as 10 to 20 percent of mothers go through depression at some point, and 1 in 11 infants experiences his mother’s depression in the first year.
而且家长往往会觉得自己是有责任的。育有患抑郁症的子女，家长自己患重性抑郁症的可能性也将比正常值高出一至两倍。现在已知母亲患抑郁症对子女发育尤其会带来严重影响，主要是因为母亲缺乏对子女的响应——对婴儿凝视、呀呀学语和动作有意识、持续的模仿与应对。“患抑郁症的母亲在回应自己的宝宝时，往往从一开始就欠缺热情与愉悦，”加州大学旧金山分校精神病学系的教授艾丽西娅·利伯曼(Alicia Lieberman)说。由于有10%-20%的母亲总会在人生的某个阶段遭遇抑郁，而且每11个婴儿中就有1个会在出生的头一年后感知到母亲的抑郁，这确实是个问题。
But it’s easy to overstate the role of maternal depression. “Most kids of depressed parents don’t get depressed,” says Arnold Sameroff, a developmental psychologist at University of Michigan’s Center for Human Growth and Development, who has studied children of parents with mental problems. Conversely, parents need not be depressed to heighten depression in their children. “There are definitely situations where the family interaction is creating the negativity in the child’s life, and that is one pathway to depression,” says Tamar Chansky, founder of the Children’s Center for O.C.D. and Anxiety in suburban Philadelphia. “But what I see more often is the no-fault situation, where parents are baffled to hear such negative thoughts coming from their children.” Despite the assumption that these kids must have experienced severe psychosocial deprivation, abuse or neglect, Luby says: “I’ve seen many depressed kids with nurturing, caring parents. We know that psychosocial stress is an important ingredient, but it’s not the only issue. And it’s not a necessary condition either.”
但是人们很容易夸大母亲抑郁扮演的角色。“大部分患抑郁症的父母，其子女并没有抑郁，”密歇根大学人类生长与发展中心发展心理学家阿诺德·塞默罗夫(Arnold Sameroff)曾研究过有心理问题的家长生育的子女。反过来说，子女出现抑郁问题，并不一定就是步父母的后尘。“确实是有这样的情况：家人的互动给孩子的生活造成负面影响，这是孩子日后出现抑郁的原因之一，”儿童强迫症和焦虑症中心（Children's Center for OCD and Anxiety，位于费城）创始人塔马尔·钱斯基(Tamar Chansky)说：“但我更常见的是情况是父母并没有做错，当听到自己的孩子说出那么消极的想法时往往感觉不知所措。”卢比则说，人们往往猜想这类孩子必定遭受过严重的心理社会剥夺(psychosocial deprivation)、虐待或忽视，但她说：“我曾看到过那么多患抑郁症的孩子，他们都拥有慈爱、关怀备至的父母。我们知道心理社会压力是一个重要的因素，但并非唯一的问题，也不是（患抑郁症）必需的条件。”
Kiran’s parents have advanced degrees and stable jobs and were invested in being good parents. Both participated in a Missouri’s Parents as Teachers program, receiving instruction during Kiran’s first three years. But Elizabeth says she does wonder if her behavior exacerbated some of Kiran’s negative tendencies. “Sometimes I worry that we were too critical of Kiran,” Elizabeth told me over the phone in January. “I was exasperated with him all the time. I wasn’t intentionally trying to make him feel guilty, but the way I was interacting with him was providing a guilt trip.” Elizabeth’s own moods sometimes played a role. “If my mood was low, his got even lower.”
基兰的父母拥有高等学历和稳定工作，而且为了成为好父母投入了很多。两人都参加了密苏里州的“父母亦老师”项目，在基兰出生后的前三年接受过培训。但伊丽莎白说，她确实担心她自身的行为是否加深了基兰某些消极的倾向。“有时我担心我们对基兰太严苛了，”1月份，伊丽莎白在电话中对我说：“我总是生他的气。我不是有意想让他感到自责的，但我与他互动的方式会让他觉得自责。”伊丽莎白本人的情绪有时也会起作用：“如果我的情绪低落，他会更消沉。”
IN A SMALL LAB slightly off the main campus of Washington University in St. Louis’s School of Medicine, Joan Luby is trying to figure out exactly what constitutes preschool depression. For a new clinical diagnosis to gain sanction with psychologists, schools, doctors and insurance companies, it requires entry into the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the field guide to psychiatric illness. Though the manual, last thoroughly revised in 1994, purports to describe and classify the full range of mental disorders, it was not designed to capture preschool conditions. To help practitioners recognize problems earlier, the research organization Zero to Three published its own manual, the Diagnostic Classification of Mental Health and Developmental Disorders of Infancy and Early Childhood, most recently in 2005. But its methods of review aren’t as rigorous as those in the D.S.M., and many await the imprimatur of the updated D.S.M., due in 2013, which is expected to account for developmental stages of disorder across the lifespan.
在圣路易斯华盛顿大学医学院主校区，稍稍往外走一点，有一间小型实验室，琼·卢比正是在这里，试图确认前龄前抑郁症的定义。一项新的临床诊断想要获得心理学家、学校、医生和保险公司的认可，就需要得以收录进《精神疾病诊断与统计手册》（Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders，简称DSM）——精神疾病的指南。这本手册上一次彻底修订的时间是1994年，尽管它意欲对各类心境障碍症做出全面的描述与分类，但其初衷并不是鉴别前龄前儿童症状。为了帮助从业者及早识别问题，研究机构“0至3岁”(Zero to Three)出版了自己的手册《婴幼儿心理健康与发展疾患诊断分类》(Diagnostic Classification of Mental Health and Developmental Disorders of Infancy and Early Childhood)，这本书最近一次修订是在2005年。不过，这本册子的评估手段并不像DSM那样严谨，因此仍有很多人在等待DSM2013年新版的出版许可，人们预计在新版中会囊括人类一生出现心境障碍疾患的发展阶段（新版已在2013年5月发行）。
Luby is one of the first researchers to systematically investigate the criteria for preschool depression, primarily through a longitudinal study that initially evaluated children between ages 3 and 5 for depression and was financed by the N.I.M.H. These children, who are now between 9 and 12, come into a lab every year for assessments. Offshoot studies have looked at everything from the role of tantrums in depressed children to how depressed preschoolers perform on cognitive tasks. Luby’s file cabinets teem with DVDs of each of her study participants’ periodic assessments. I watched one recording in which a 5-year-old squirmed in her chair while her parents answered questions. “She cries at the drop of a hat.” “She realizes that something’s different about her, and she’s bothered by her irritability and sadness.” “At times she’ll accept comfort; other times, nothing will console her.”
卢比是率先系统调查前龄前抑郁症标准的研究者之一，她进行的纵向研究是对3-5岁儿童的抑郁症状进行原始评估，使用的是由国家精神卫生研究院提供的基金。这些孩子如今已经在9-12岁之间，每年要进实验室进行评估。此外她还在进行各项分支研究，对从抑郁儿童发怒的作用到抑郁学龄前儿童如何完成认知任务的方方面面进行分析。卢比的文件柜中码放着她每个研究对象阶段性评估的DVD。我看了其中的一次录影，在片中，一个5岁的小女孩在椅子上扭来扭去，她的父母回答着问题。“她动不动就会大哭。”“她发觉自己跟别的小孩有什么地方不一样，对自己易怒或伤心，她也很烦恼。”“有时她可以接受抚慰；但也有时，什么都安抚不了她。”
Through interviews like this, Luby is trying to identify preschool depression’s characteristics; according to her research, they look a lot like those in older people. In adults, for instance, anhedonia, the inability to derive pleasure in normally enjoyable activities, can be signaled by the absence of libido; in preschoolers, it means finding little joy in toys. Other symptoms, including restlessness and irritability, are similarly downsized. These kids whine and cry. They don’t want to play. Rather than voice suicidal ideation, they may orchestrate scenarios around violence or death.
在像这样的面谈中，卢比总想要鉴别学龄前抑郁的特征；在她的研究中，这些儿童的表现跟较年长的人十分相像。比方说，在成年人中，快感缺乏，即无法从平常让人快乐的活动中找到快感，可以作为缺乏欲望的信号；而在学龄前儿童中，它意味着玩玩具也让人高兴不起来。其他症状，包括不安和易怒，也会同样以较小的规模显现。这些孩子喜欢哭哭啼啼，大哭大闹。他们不想玩。他们倒不会表达自杀意愿，但可能围绕暴力或死亡设想一些情节。
The most obvious and pervasive symptom, not surprisingly, is sadness. But it’s not “I didn’t get the toy I wanted at Target; now I’m really sad,” cautions Helen Egger, a Duke University child psychiatrist and epidemiologist. The misery needs to persist across time, in different settings, with different people. Nor is it enough just to be sad; after all, sadness in the face of unachieved goals or a loss of well-being is normal. But the depressed child apparently has such difficulty resolving the sadness that it becomes pervasive and inhibits his functioning. “You can watch two kids try to put on shoes, and as soon as something gets stuck, one child pulls it off and throws it across the room,” says Tamar Chansky, who treats preschoolers who are depressed or are at risk for depression in her clinic. “He hits himself, throws objects and says things like ‘I did this wrong; I’m stupid.’ ”
儿童表现出最明显、最普遍的症状是悲伤——这点并不让人意外。但杜克大学(Duke University)儿童精神病学家、流行病学家海伦·埃格(Helen Egger)提醒说，这种悲伤并不是“在塔吉特商场，我想要的玩具没有买到；现在我真的不高兴了”，而应该是挥之不去的忧伤，而且无论跟什么人在一起，身处什么场合，都依然如此。同时，光是悲伤这一种症状而不够；毕竟碰到目标未能达成，或者身体不舒服时，不高兴是很正常的事情。但抑郁的儿童显然在化解悲伤时碰到了很大的麻烦，结果这种情绪压倒了一切，影响了他的正常活动。“你可以观察两个想要自己穿鞋子的小孩，一旦出了点什么问题，当中一个小孩会把鞋子拔下来，扔到房子那头去，”在自己的诊所治疗抑郁症或临界抑郁症学前儿童的塔玛尔·钱斯基说：“他会打自己，扔东西，说‘我做不好事情，我太蠢了’这样的话。”
Unfortunately there is little that young children can tell us directly about what they are going through. Preschoolers not only lack the linguistic sophistication to describe the experience, but they’re also still learning what emotions are. To get a sense of what a young child is feeling, Luby’s team uses a technique called the Berkeley Puppet Interview, which was developed to help children articulate how they perceive themselves and process their emotions. I watched as a wiry, blond 5-year-old boy responded to a therapist’s dog-faced puppets.
不幸的是，幼儿几乎无法直接告诉我们自己的心理感受。学龄前儿童不仅缺乏表达体验的语言复杂度，而且他们仍处在学习感情为何物的过程中。为了了解幼儿的所思所想，卢比的团队使用了一种名为“伯克利玩偶访谈”的技术，这种技术可用来帮助儿童阐述对自己的看法、并处理自己的感情。我观看了一名身材细长、金发的5岁男孩对治疗师手中的狗脸玩偶做出回应。
“My parents care a lot about me,” the first puppet said in an upbeat tone. “My parents don’t care a lot about me,” the second said in an equally cheerful voice. “How about you?”
“我父母十分关心我，”第一个玩偶用高昂的声调说。“我父母不是十分关心我，”第二个玩偶用同样欢快的声音说。“你呢？”
“Sometimes they care about me,” the boy replied, and then paused. “They don’t care a lot about me,” he added with emphasis.
“他们有时关心我，”这个男孩回答说，然后又停下来。“他们不是十分关心我，”他特别强调了“不是”。
“When I do something wrong, I feel bad,” the first puppet said.
“当我做错事时，我觉得很难过，”第一个玩偶说。
“When I do something wrong, I don’t feel bad,” the second said. “How about you?”
“当我做错事时，我不觉得难过，”第二个玩偶说。“你呢？”
“When I do something wrong, I do feel bad,” the boy responded.
“当我做错事时，我确实觉得难过，”男孩回答说。
Later he told the puppets that he didn’t like to be alone. He worried that other kids didn’t like him, and he wished he had more friends. His insecurity, low self-image and, in particular, his sense of guilt and shame mark him as a possible depressive: it’s not only that I did this thing wrong, it’s I’m a bad boy.
接着，他告诉玩偶他不喜欢独自一个人。他担心别的孩子不喜欢他，希望能有更多朋友。他的不安全感、较低的自我形象，特别是他的内疚和羞愧感，这标志着他成为了可能的抑郁症患者：我不仅仅是做了错事，我还是个坏孩子。
But generally speaking, preschool depression, unlike autism, O.D.D. and A.D.H.D., which have clear symptoms, is not a disorder that is readily apparent to the casual observer or even to the concerned parent. Depressed preschoolers are usually not morbidly, vegetatively depressed. Though they are frequently viewed as not doing particularly well socially or emotionally, teachers rarely grasp the depth of the problem. Sometimes the kids zone out in circle time, and it’s mistaken for A.D.H.D., “because they’re just staring,” explains Melissa Nishawala, the child psychiatrist at N.Y.U. “But inside, they’re worrying or thinking negative thoughts.” More often, they are simply overlooked. “These are often the good kids who tend to be timid and withdrawn,” says Sylvana Côté, a researcher at the University of Montreal who studies childhood mood and behavioral disorders. “It’s because they’re not the oppositional, aggressive children who disrupt everyone in class that their problems go undernoticed.”
但是总的来说，和有着清晰症状的自闭症、对立性反抗障碍和注意缺陷多动障碍不同，学龄前抑郁症对于随意的旁观者、甚至是留意的家长，都并不是一眼就能甄别的心境障碍症。抑郁的学龄前儿童通常并没有表现出病态的、了无生趣的抑郁症状。尽管老师们常常认为这些孩子在社交或情感发育上做得并不是特别出色，但鲜少把握住这个问题的深度。有时这些孩子在集体活动时会走神，结果人们误以为他们得的是注意缺陷多动障碍，“因为他们只是瞪着眼睛看，”纽约大学儿童研究中心的儿童精神病学家梅丽莎·尼沙瓦拉解释说，“但在内心深处，他们是在发愁，或者在往消极的方向上想着心事。”更常见的情况是，他们干脆就被众人忽视了。“他们往往都是乖小孩，表现得内向而又沉默，”蒙特利尔大学(University of Montreal)的研究员西尔瓦纳·科蒂(Sylvana Côté)研究的是儿童情绪与行为障碍，她说：“因为他们并不是对立、好斗，把班上所有人都折腾个遍的小孩，他们的问题因此没有受到关注。”
Many researchers, particularly those with medical training, are eager to identify some kind of a “biologic marker” to make diagnosis scientifically conclusive. Recent studies have looked at the activity of cortisol, a hormone the body produces in response to stress. In preschoolers who have had a diagnosis of depression, as in depressed adults, cortisol levels escalate under stressful circumstances and then fail to recover with the same buoyancy as in typical children.
很多研究人员，尤其是有着医学训练背景的人，渴望能找到某种“生物标记物”，好让诊断在科学上盖棺论定。近期的一些研究针对的是皮质醇的活跃度，这是一种在面对压力时人体产生的激素。在那些确诊患有抑郁症的学龄前儿童身上，其皮质醇水平在身处压力环境时会飙升，但却无法跟普通孩子一样得以迅速回落，在这个指标上与患抑郁症的成人有类似之处。
But in adults, cortisol reactivity can be an indication of anxiety. Other research has found that in young children, anxiety and depression are likewise intertwined. At Duke, Egger found that children who were depressed as preschoolers were more than four times as likely to have an anxiety disorder at school age. “Are these two distinct but strongly related syndromes?” asks Daniel Pine of the N.I.M.H. “Are they just slightly different-appearing clinical manifestations of the same underlying problem? Do the relationships vary at different ages? There are no definitive answers.”
但在成人身上，皮质醇的反应度可以作为焦虑的标志。另一项研究发现，幼儿的焦虑与抑郁同样是相互交织的。在杜克大学，埃格发现在学龄前出现抑郁的孩子，在上学后出现焦虑症的可能性是普通孩子的四倍多。“这是两个不同但有强烈关联的综合症吗？”美国国家精神卫生研究院的丹尼尔·派因问：“这是同一种潜在问题出现的两种轻微不同的临床表现吗？两者的关系会随着年龄的增长而改变吗？现在关于这些还没有确切的答案。”
Further complicating the picture is the extent to which depressed children have other ailments. In Egger’s epidemiological sample, three-fourths of depressed children had some additional disorder. In Luby’s study, about 40 percent also had A.D.H.D. or O.D.D., disruptive problems that tend to drown out signs of depression. Though it looks as if only the children with depression experience anhedonia, other symptoms like irritability and sadness are shared across several disorders.
令眼前景象更为错综复杂的是，那些患抑郁症的儿童是否还患有别的疾病。在埃格的流行病学样本中，有四分之三的抑郁症儿童还患有某些其他的失调症。在卢比的研究中，约有40%儿童还患有注意缺陷多动障碍或对立性反抗障碍。尽管貌似只有得抑郁症的孩子会出现快感缺失，但其他症状，比如易怒和悲伤，则在多种精神障碍症中都可以出现。
Classifying symptoms into discrete diagnostic categories may not always be possible at this age, which leads to a reluctance among clinicians to pinpoint disorders. “There is a tension in child psychiatry about the degree to which disorders that are fairly clear in older individuals, adolescents and even school-age kids are apparent in young children, and if they are, whether they manifest in different ways,” warns Charles Zeanah, a professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at Tulane and part of the work group charged with updating the D.S.M. to reflect developmental stages. Post-traumatic stress syndrome, for example, can manifest itself differently in 4-year-olds than it does in 40-year-olds. Certain disorders like separation anxiety and selective mutism are exclusively the province of children but either disappear or evolve into anxiety or depression by adulthood. Thus far, however, depression, like obsessive-compulsive disorder, seems to be consistent across the lifespan.
对于这个年纪的孩子，将不同症状划分为完全独立的诊断门类，这往往并不现实，临床医生们因此不愿对各类障碍做出确诊。“在儿童精神病学界存在着争议，那就是在较年长的人、青少年甚至小学阶段儿童身上表现甚为明显的障碍症，在幼儿身上是否也有明确显现，如果是，是否又会以不同的方式体现出来，”杜兰大学(Tulane)儿童与青少年精神病学教授查尔斯·泽纳(Charles Zeanah)提出这样的警告。泽纳所在的工作组负责为DSM新版更新有关反映心理发展阶段的内容。比方说，创伤后应激综合症(Post-traumatic stress syndrome)在4岁和40岁的人身上，就可以出现完全不同的表现。某些障碍症，比如分离焦虑和选择性缄默症只会在儿童这个群体中出现，可是到了成年后，症状要么消失，要么演化为焦虑或抑郁症。不过迄今为止，抑郁症和强迫症貌似将会贯穿一生。
But, in part to avoid stigmatizing young children, two catch-all diagnoses — adjustment disorder with depressed mood, as well as depressive disorder not otherwise specified (N.O.S.) — are frequently applied. There are benefits to such diffuse diagnoses: they spare parents the crushing word “depression” and avoid the prospect of prematurely labeling a child. They also allow for the possibility that a child may grow out of it. “We don’t like to diagnose depression in a preschooler,” says Mary O’Connor, from U.C.L.A. “These kids are still forming, so we’re more likely to call it a mood disorder N.O.S. That’s just the way we think of it here.”
可是，部分基于避免给幼儿打上烙印的考虑，临床医生常常使用这两种“滴水不漏”的诊断名称——伴有抑郁情绪的适应障碍，以及非特异性抑郁障碍。用这类语焉不详的诊断是有好处的：它可以免得家长听到“抑郁症”这种毁灭性的字眼，让儿童免于过早被打上标签；还留下了孩子随着年龄增长情况好转的余地。“我们不喜欢给学龄前儿童做出抑郁症的诊断，”加州大学洛杉矶分校的玛丽·奥康纳说，“这些孩子仍处在未定型的阶段，所以我们更有可能称之为非特异性心境障碍。这就是目前我们考虑该问题的方式。”
But this way of thinking frustrates Luby and Egger, who say they fear that if a depressed child isn’t given the proper diagnosis, he can’t get appropriate treatment. You wouldn’t use the vague term “heart condition,” they argue, to describe a specific form of cardiac arrhythmia. “Why do we call depression in older children a ‘disorder,’ but with young children we just call it a ‘risk factor’ or ‘phase’?” Egger asks. Is it right that rather than treat children for depression, clinicians wait and see what might happen three or four years down the road?
这种考虑问题的方式让卢比和埃格大为沮丧，她们担心如果得了抑郁症的孩子未能得到确切的诊断，他将没法接受对症治疗。她们指出，在描述心律失常的某个特定形式时，医生不可能用“心脏有异常”这种含混的术语。“为什么我们可以确诊大童得了某种‘失调症’，而对幼儿却只能称其为‘风险因素’或‘阶段’呢？”埃格追问。临床医生不去治疗患抑郁症的孩子，而是等到三四年过后再看看会否出现变化，这难道就是对的？
THEIR TENDERNESS OF age may render preschoolers especially vulnerable to depression’s consequences. Young children are acutely sensitive but lack the skill, experience and self-sufficiency to deal with strong feelings. In general, early exposure to negative experiences — separation from a caregiver, abuse, casual neglect — can have intense and long-term effects on development, even on the neural, cardiovascular and endocrine processes that underlie and support emotional functioning. Preliminary brain scans of Luby’s depressed preschoolers show changes in the shape and size of the hippocampus, an important emotion center in the brain, and in the functional connectivity between different brain regions, similar to changes found in the brains of depressed adults. In a longitudinal study of risk factors for depression, Daniel Klein and his team found that children who were categorized as “temperamentally low in exuberance and enthusiasm” at age 3 had trouble at age 7 summoning positive words that described themselves. By 10, they were more likely to exhibit depressive symptoms. And multiple studies have already linked depression in school-age children to adult depression.
学龄前儿童脆弱的年纪可能导致他们尤其容易遭受抑郁症后果带来的伤害。幼儿十分脆弱，但在处理强烈的感情时又缺乏技能、经验和自主性。总的来说，在早期经历负面体验——与看护者分离、被虐待，或被随意忽视——可以对儿童发育、甚至对构成和支持情绪功能的神经、心血管和内分泌运转带来严重而长期的后果。卢比对抑郁的学龄前儿童进行了初步的脑部扫描，结果显示海马区——它是大脑中重要的情绪中枢，拥有对不同脑部地区的功能连通性——其形状和大小均发生了改变。丹尼尔·克莱恩和他的团队对抑郁症的风险因素进行了一项纵向研究，发现在3岁时被分为“在活力与热情的气质上程度较低”类别的儿童，到了7岁时，会难以找出积极的词语来形容自己。到了10岁时，他们更可能表现出抑郁症状。还有多项研究已经将儿童在学龄时出现抑郁跟成年抑郁联系在一起。
Studies of children with other disorders that began in preschool and continued into adolescence have shown that early-onset issues don’t disappear on their own; current research suggests the same is true for depression. Among the preschoolers in Luby’s longitudinal study, those diagnosed with depression at the beginning of the study were four times as likely to be found depressed two years later than those in the control group. Egger found that children who met her depression criteria as preschoolers were seven times as likely to experience depression four years down the road.
还有些研究针对的是在学龄前出现其他失调症的儿童，结果发现在进入青春期时，其早期出现的问题并未自行消失；现有的一项研究显示，对于抑郁症，这个结论同样成立。在卢比纵向研究的学龄前儿童中，比起对照组儿童，那些在研究开始时就确诊有抑郁症状的儿童在两年后出现抑郁症的可能性高了三倍。埃格发现，那些达到她学龄前抑郁症标准的儿童，在四年后有抑郁症状的可能性高出了六倍。
But recent successes in treating autism have also shown that in many cases, the earlier the detection and intervention of a disorder, the greater chance for significant results. One principal argument for diagnosing depression early is that even with a genetic predisposition, depression isn’t cemented into the psyche; the very fluidity of preschoolers’ mental states seems to make them more treatable. This window is especially tantalizing because of the brain’s neuroplasticity during the early years. The brain literally changes course when you prod it in a given direction. “Nobody knows exactly why, but treatment seems to affect children’s brains more powerfully,” Luby says, pointing out that language acquisition, for example, is easier at younger ages. Ballet, violin, swim lessons — we begin all kinds of training at age 4.
不过，近期在治疗自闭症方面取得的成功显示，在很多个案中，越早甄别和干预某种失调症，取得显著进展的机会就越高。对于早期诊断抑郁症，现在的一个主要论点是即使抑郁症有遗传易感性，但它并没有牢牢地刻进心灵深处；学龄前儿童心理状态极具变化，这似乎使得治愈的可能性更为显著。由于幼年时期的大脑具有神经易塑性，早期治疗的机会显得尤为诱人。如果你刺激大脑的某个特定方位，大脑实际上是可以改变进程的。“没人了解准确的原因，但治疗看来能更有力地影响儿童的大脑，”卢比说。她还举例说，年纪越小，语言学习就更容易。芭蕾、小提琴、游泳课——我们都是在四岁起开始接受各种各样的训练。
For a diagnosis of preschool depression to have any meaningful impact, an appropriate treatment must be found. Talk therapy isn’t practical for children who don’t have the verbal or intellectual sophistication to express and untangle their emotions. Play therapy, a favorite of preschool counselors, has yet to be proved effective.
想要令学龄前儿童抑郁症的诊断取得有意义的影响力，就必须找到适当的疗法。谈话疗法对儿童不实用，因为他们既没有语言也没有智力上的成熟度，来表达和整理自己的情绪。幼儿园的辅导员喜欢用游戏疗法，但至今没有研究证明这种方法是有效的。
But there may be treatments, Luby says, that could help prevent depression from interfering with a child’s development, ensuring that she functions socially, cognitively and emotionally, alongside her peers. According to epidemiological studies conducted by Egger, from 1 to 3 percent of children between 2 and 5 have depression, a rate that seems to increase over the preschool years. Altogether, she and other researchers say, 84,000 of America’s 6 million preschoolers may be clinically depressed. Intervention could potentially forestall, minimize or even prevent depression from becoming a lifelong condition. At a minimum, it could teach them ways to better manage future bouts. If we wait, their only options may be medication and ongoing talk therapy, forever rehashing the hurts Mom and Dad inflicted 20 years earlier.
但是，卢比说，或许存在一些治疗方法能通过干预儿童的发育，确保其能跟同龄人一样在社交、认知和情感上发挥正常功能，从而帮助防止抑郁症。根据埃格进行的流行病学研究，在2-5岁的儿童中，有1%-3%患有抑郁症，而且这个比例貌似会随着年龄增长而上升。她和其他研究人员表示，总的来说，美国600万学龄前儿童中，有8.4万人可能出现了临床抑郁症状。适时干预有可能阻止或将影响降低到最低程度，甚至避免抑郁症伴随其一生。这些治疗最起码能教会他们更好地应对今后的打击。如果仍然坐视不管，他们唯一的选择也许就是药物和持续的谈话疗法，反反复复念叨着20年前爸爸妈妈对自己带来的伤害。
And while practitioners quibble over what to label depression, most agree that for any mood disorder, children this age should not be treated in isolation. “Psychotherapy for depressed preschoolers should always involve the caregiver,” Luby says. “Not because the caregiver is necessarily bad or doing anything wrong, but because the caregiver is an essential part of the child’s psychological apparatus. The child is not an independent entity at this age.”
同时，尽管从业人员仍在争论该给学前抑郁症贴上什么样的标签，但大部分人都同意，无论患上哪一种心境失调症，这么小的儿童都不应该单独接受治疗。“为抑郁的学龄前儿童开展心理疗法，他们的看护人必须始终参与进来，”卢比说，“这并不是因为看护人肯定有问题，做了什么错事，而是因为在儿童的心理仪器中，看护人是必要的一部分。这么小的孩子还不是独立的个体。”
One established method is called Parent-Child Interaction Therapy, or P.C.I.T. Originally developed in the 1970s to treat disruptive disorders — which typically include violent or aggressive behavior in preschoolers — P.C.I.T. is generally a short-term program, usually 10 to 16 weeks under the supervision of a trained therapist, with ongoing follow-up in the home. Luby adapted the program for depression and began using it in 2007 in an ongoing study on a potential treatment. During each weekly hourlong session, parents are taught to encourage their children to acquire emotion regulation, stress management, guilt reparation and other coping skills. The hope is that children will learn to handle depressive symptoms and parents will reinforce those lessons.
其中一种已经尝试的治疗方法叫“亲子互动疗法”（Parent-Child Interaction Therapy，简称PCIT），它在20世纪70年代开发出来，当时是为了治疗儿童破坏性行为——通常包括学龄前儿童的暴力或攻击性行为——它是一种短期疗法，往往为期10-16周，在受过培训的治疗师监督下进行，同时持续进行居家随访。卢比对这种疗法进行了改造，好让它用于抑郁症治疗，在2007年开始并持续至今的试验中使用，希望了解它是否有可能成为学龄前儿童的治疗方法。治疗每周进行一次，每次一小时，接受了培训的家长需要鼓励子女学习情绪控制、压力管理、内疚补偿和其他应对技能，希望孩子们能学会处置抑郁症状，而家长能不断强化学到的经验。
I observed one session in which a therapist deliberately invoked feelings of guilt in the same blond 5-year-old who told the puppets “When bad things happen, I do feel bad.” Seated at a table with his mother, he turned to greet a therapist carrying a tray with two teacups, one elaborately painted. She told him that they were to have a tea party, pointing out her favorite teacup and describing the time it took to decorate it. “I’ll let you use my favorite today,” she beamed. As he gingerly took the rigged cup, its handle snapped off. His face darkened. The therapist lamented the break, ostensibly distraught, and excused herself from the room. The boy’s mother, guided via earset by a therapist watching through a two-way mirror, helped her child work through and resolve his feelings.
我观察了一次治疗，当中治疗师刻意激起了孩子的内疚感，这个孩子就是告诉玩偶“当我做错事时，我确实觉得难过”的那个金发的5岁男孩。他跟妈妈一起坐在桌边，转身向治疗师打招呼，对方拿着一个托盘，上面放着两个茶杯，其中一个有意涂上了图画。她告诉他，他们可以办个茶话会，还告诉他自己特别喜欢当中一个茶杯，费了很长时间亲手在上面绘制了图案。“今天，我打算让你用我喜欢的这个杯子，”她欢快地说。当他小心翼翼地拿起这个被人动过手脚的杯子时，它的把手突然断了。他的脸色顿时阴沉下来。治疗师对打坏的杯子深表痛惜，有意摆出一脸抓狂的样子，然后借机走出了房间。另一位治疗师从双面镜那里观察室内动静，并通过耳机指导孩子的妈妈，帮助她的孩子解决问题，面对自己的情绪。
“Do you feel like you’re a bad boy?” his mother asked. Most parents want to distract their kids from negative emotions rather than let them process the feelings. “They want to wipe it away and move on,” Luby says. In this session, the mother was instead encouraged to draw the child out.
“你觉得自己是个坏孩子吗？”他的妈妈问。大部分家长不愿意让子女处理个人情绪，而是希望分散孩子的注意力，让他们不再沉缅于负面情感。“他们想一笔带过，就此不提，”卢比说。而在这次治疗中，治疗师则是鼓励这位妈妈挖掘孩子的感觉。
The boy nodded tearfully. “I feel like I’m going to go into the trash can,” he said.
小男孩含着眼泪点点头。“我觉得我就要进垃圾桶里了，”他说。
“Who would put you in the trash can?” his mother asked.
“谁会把你放到垃圾桶里？”他的妈妈问。
“You would,” he replied in an accusatory voice.
“你会，”他语带谴责地回答。
“I would never do that,” she said. “I love you. Accidents happen.” The boy seemed to recover, and they chatted about her earrings, which he flicked playfully with a forefinger. Then his face drooped again.
“我永远不会这样做的，”她说，“我爱你。意外免不了会发生的呀。”孩子看起来回过神来了，他们聊起了她的耳环，于是他开玩笑地伸出食指轻轻弹了下。紧接着，他的脸又拉长了。
“Are you mad at me?” he asked, and then added, almost angrily, “I never want to do this activity again.”
“你生我的气吗？”他问道，紧接着他又说：“我再也不会这样做了。”听起来他像是在发火。
“You’re not a bad boy,” she consoled him. Often, parents don’t realize that their children experience guilt or shame, Luby says. “In response to transgression, they tend to punish rather than reassure.”
“你不是坏孩子，”妈妈安慰他。卢比说，有时候家长并没有意识到孩子正在感受到内疚或羞愧，她说：“在孩子做出逾矩的行为时，家长没有打消孩子的顾虑，而往往一罚了之。”
“I am a bad boy,” the boy said, ducking under the table. “I don’t think you love me now.” He started to moan from the floor, whimpering: “I’m so sad. I’m so sad.”
“我就是坏孩子，”孩子说着，钻到了桌子底下。“你觉得你现在根本不爱我。”他躺到了地板上，抽抽答答地抱怨说：“我太伤心了。我太伤心了。”
SUCCESS WITH P.C.I.T. rests heavily on parents, who are essentially tasked with reprogramming their child’s brain to form new, more adaptive habits. Not all parents are equipped to handle the vigilance, the consistency, the sensitivity. But early results look promising. Though her data is preliminary, Luby and her team have documented considerable decreases in depression severity and impairment following treatment.
亲子互动疗法能否成功，很大程度上取决于父母，从本质上说，他们承担的任务是将孩子的大脑重新编程，以养成新的、更具适应力的习惯。并非所有家长都有能力应对这项任务的警觉性、一致性和敏感性。但早期结果看来是喜人的。卢比和其团队的数据虽然还处在初期，但已经有结果表明参试儿童的抑郁严重程度出现了显著下降，对后续治疗的需要降低。
Could we somehow nip adult depression in the bud? We may never get a definitive answer, even if we do begin to systematically diagnose and treat preschool depression. “The promise of early-childhood mental health is that if you intervene early enough to change negative conditions, rather than perpetuate negative behaviors, you really are preventing the development of a full-fledged diagnosis,” says Alicia Lieberman at U.C.S.F. “Of course, you would never then know if the child would have become a depressed adult.”
我们是否能以某种方式将成年抑郁症扼杀在萌芽阶段？即使我们现在真的可以开始系统诊断并治疗学龄前抑郁症，恐怕也无从得到一个确切的答案。“早期心理健康带给人们的期许在于，如果你能及早改变负面条件，而不是任由负面行为肆意发展，你确实就可以防微杜渐，避免出现全面症状，”加州大学旧金山分校的艾丽西娅·利伯曼说：“当然了，你永远都没法确知这个孩子长大后是否真的会得抑郁症。”
This doesn’t leave parents with a very clear road map. “We don’t know if Kiran will be at risk of depression as an adult,” Raghu told me when I spoke to him by phone in January. In the study that Kiran participated in, because he was part of the control group, he did not get to go through P.C.I.T. Nevertheless, Raghu and Elizabeth found the general parent training they received as part of the control helpful. And in the months following the study, Kiran’s mood seemed to improve. A trip to his grandparents’ farm last summer was particularly beneficial. But by this past winter, he seemed to be slipping and prone to bouts of anger and frustration; depression, it was explained to them at Luby’s lab, tends to be episodic. “We worry that it’s a lifelong thing,” Elizabeth told me.
家长们无法从中清晰地看到未来的道路。“我们不知道基兰长大后，是否会有患抑郁症的危险，”1月份，拉古在电话里对我说。基兰参加了研究，但由于被分入对照组，他并未参加亲子互动治疗。不过拉古和伊丽莎白仍然觉得，他们在对照组中接受的家长培训对自己有所帮助。在研究过后的几个月里，基兰的情绪貌似有所好转，去年夏天他去了爷爷奶奶的农场玩，这次旅行特别有用。但在过去的这个冬天，他的状况看来一点点地开始回落，变得容易突然发脾气或者情绪消沉；卢比的实验室对这家人解释说，抑郁往往会不定期发作。“我们担心他一辈子都摆脱不了了，”伊丽莎白对我说。
Recently, Elizabeth asked Kiran what the happiest time in his life had been. He told her about the trip they took to Spain when he was 8 months old. Elizabeth asked if he remembered going. “No,” he said. “But I looked really happy in the picture.” She pressed him for another answer, a time that he could actually remember. He thought hard. “I haven’t had my happiest time yet,” he said.
最近，伊丽莎白问基兰，他生活中最快乐的时光是什么时候。他告诉他，应该是在他8个月时他们带他去西班牙旅游的那次。伊丽莎白问他是否记得自己去过西班牙。“不记得，”他说：“但在照片里，我看起来真的很高兴。”她逼着他再给一个答案，一段他真的能记起的时光。他使劲想啊想。“我最快乐的时光还没有到来，”他说。