When my son Otto was 2 years old, he was bitten in the face by a dog. It was my fault; I knew the dog didn’t like children. A mutt I’d adopted in the Caribbean, Zeke was the friendliest dog you could hope to meet (that’s why I dragged such a scraggly creature home with me), until my first son, Zane, was born. After a few angry growls, Zeke went to live with my father.
我儿子奥托两岁大的时候，一只狗咬了他的脸。那是我的错，我知道那只狗不喜欢小孩。齐克是我在加勒比海收养的一只杂种狗，是你能见到的最友好的狗（那也是我会把这么一只脏兮兮的狗带回家的原因），直到我的大儿子赞恩出生，我才发现事实并非如此。在它对赞恩怒吼了几声之后，我把它送给了我父亲。
When I visited Dad a few years later with both kids in tow, it didn’t occur to me I was putting them in harm’s way. I let Otto chase Zeke around the house, grab his fur and sit on him when the dog clearly wanted to be left alone. Zeke growled, he tucked his tail, he bared his teeth, he air-snapped — all signs of imminent danger — and I would just scoop Otto up, arrogantly thinking I could control the situation. What’s the worst that could happen, I thought? A little nip? Honestly, until you see a dog attack, you have no idea how utterly, horribly brutal it can be. (I wrote about the attack, and its aftermath, in more detail in “The Dog Bit Me” for the Magazine.)
几年之后我带着两个孩子去看父亲的时候，并没料到我会让他们受到伤害。我任由奥托在房子里四处追逐齐克，抓它的毛，坐在它身上，而齐克明显不想被人打扰。齐克吼叫了几声，夹起了尾巴，露出了牙齿，对着空中抓了几下——所有这些都是马上要发起攻击的信号——我自负地想，我能飞快地把奥托抱起来，能控制住局面。我想最坏又能怎样呢？咬上一小口？坦白地说，除非你亲眼见过狗攻击人的情形，你不会知道它能变得多么可怕、多么残忍（我在本杂志的《那只狗咬了我》[The Dog Bit Me]一文中详细讲述了那次攻击的情形以及它的后果）。
After Otto’s bite, I schooled myself in how to make sure it never happened again. Here’s what I learned:
在奥托被咬之后，我教会了自己如何确保这样的事情不再发生。下面就是我学到的知识：
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 4.5 million Americans, 60 percent of them under age 15, are bitten by dogs every year. The most vulnerable group is boys between 5 and 9, in part because boys this age are incredibly bad at reading dogs’ behavior.
根据疾病控制与预防中心的数据，每年有超过450万美国人被狗咬，其中60%是15岁以下的孩子。最易受攻击的是5至9岁的男孩，其中一个原因是这个年龄段的男孩特别不善于解读狗的身体语言。
The good news, though, is that being bitten by a dog is almost entirely avoidable. By paying attention, learning a few simple rules and teaching them to your children, you can keep your kids safe while still allowing them the rewards of healthy relationships with Rovers the world over.
不过，好消息是被狗咬几乎是完全可以避免的。只要提高警惕，掌握几个简单的原则，把这些原则教给孩子们，你就既能确保孩子安全，还能让他/她享受与狗友好相处的乐趣。
“You can show your toddler what to do — say, ‘Pet him nicely, pet him like this,’ ” advises Renee Payne, a New York City canine behavior specialist. “Take their hand. Open it so they’re not grabbing and show them how to pet the dog with a flat hand.”
“你可以给蹒跚学步的孩子展示该怎样做——比如说，‘轻轻抚摸它，像这样抚摸它，’”纽约市的犬类行为研究专家蕾妮·佩恩(Renee Payne)建议说，“拉起他们的手，让他们把手展开，这样他们就不会去抓小狗，让他们看看怎么用张开的手去抚摸小狗。”
Dog behavior experts stress how important it is to start early — especially as a child moves from infancy to toddlerhood and becomes mobile and interactive. This can be a very scary time for a dog, particularly one that doesn’t have much experience with children.
犬类行为研究专家们强调，尽早学习这些知识非常要——特别是在孩子开始学走路，开始跟人互动的时候。狗特别害怕这个时期的小孩，特别是那些没跟小孩打过太多交道的狗。
When your child can speak and understand, it’s time to teach the first rule about meeting a new dog — to steer clear of any animal whose owner is not present. If a dog is tied up outside a store, keep walking, Ms. Payne says, “no matter how cute he looks, no matter how white and fluffy he is.”
当你的孩子能说话、能听懂你的话的时候，就该教他/她见到陌生的狗时的第一个原则——如果狗的主人不在旁边，一定要躲开。佩恩说，如果狗被拴在商店外面，“不管它多可爱，多么洁白，多么毛茸茸”，一定不要停下来逗弄。
If the owner is around, the second rule is always to ask, both the owner and the dog. That means asking the owner: “Is your dog friendly? Does he like children?” and then if both are yes, “May my child pet him?” It’s important to remember that some dog owners can be a little biased about their dog’s friendliness (especially if they don’t have children), and that’s why you want to “ask” the dog, too. Approach him calmly, again with a flat hand. If his tail is wagging and he has that doggie “smile,” he is probably safe to pet. If his tail is between his legs or standing straight up, his body is stiff, his mouth is closed or he seems the least bit unenthusiastic, say “thank you” and calmly walk away.
如果狗的主人在附近，那第二个原则就是永远要询问狗主人和狗。意思就是你要问狗主人：“你的狗友好吗？它喜欢小孩吗？”如果这两个答案都是肯定的，那你接着问：“我的孩子可以抚摸它吗？”一定要记住，有些狗主人对自己的狗是否友好的判断可能有所偏颇（特别是那些没有孩子的狗主人），所以你也要“问”一下那只狗。要用展开的手平静地抚摸它。如果它的尾巴在摇摆，脸上露出“微笑”，那你抚摸它很可能是安全的。如果它的尾巴夹在两腿中间或者竖了起来，身体僵硬，嘴巴紧闭，或者看起来没有一点热情，那你就说声“谢谢”，然后安静地走开。
In a situation where the dog begins to act aggressively, or if your child feels afraid for any reason, there’s an easy rule to teach: “Be a tree.” In other words, stand very still and look away.
如果狗开始做出攻击性的动作，或者你的孩子不知为何感到害怕，那你可以教他/她一个简单的原则：“变成树。”换句话说，就是站着一动不动，向别处看。
The same rules apply to dogs that belong to friends and loved ones — and even to your own dog. While known animals are obviously more predictable than ones you don’t know, it is important to respect them and their space. Teach your children never to bother a dog while it is eating or chewing a bone, toy or stick. Never approach a mother dog with her puppies. Never try to pet a dog that is behind a fence or in a car (because the dog may think it is his job to defend it). Never climb into a dog’s crate (that’s his private space). Never try to pet a working dog, one helping a human with a sight or another impairment. And never wake a dog when it’s sleeping.
这些原则同样适用于你的朋友或爱人的狗，甚至包括你自己的狗。虽然你认识的狗明显比你不认识的狗更可预测，但是也要尊重它们以及它们自己的空间。告诉你的孩子永远不要打扰正在吃东西或者嚼骨头、玩具或棍子的狗。永远不要接近带着小狗的母狗。永远不要去抚摸栅栏后面或者车里的狗（因为那只狗可能认为保卫汽车是它的职责）。永远不要爬进狗窝里（那是它的私人空间）。永远不要去抚摸正在工作的狗，比如正在帮助失明或者伤残人士的狗。永远不要弄醒正在睡觉的狗。
Knowing what I know now, I see Zeke was using all his best dog language to tell us he was afraid, annoyed, maybe even in pain. He was begging us to keep Otto away, but out of ignorance, I didn’t listen. I didn’t, and Otto and I will be scarred for life. He, all over his face. Me, all over my conscience.
现在我知道所有这些以后，我明白齐克当时在用它所有的身体语言来告诉我们它感到害怕、恼怒，甚至可能感到痛苦。它在求我们把奥托弄走，但是由于无知，我没有理会它。结果，奥托和我这一辈子都会伤痕累累。奥托是满脸伤痕，我是满心伤痕。