My house may be like your house.
我家或许和你家一样。
As I type these lines, my daughter, Harriet, who is 14, is on her iPhone skipping among no fewer than eight social media sites: Flickr, Tumblr, Kik, Snapchat, Instagram, Ask.fm, Twitter and Vine. Rarely Facebook. Facebook, she says, is so 2011.
就在我写下这几句话的时候，我14岁的女儿哈丽雅特(Harriet)正用iPhone在至少八个社交媒体网站中换来换去：Flickr、Tumblr、Kik、Snapchat、Instagram、Ask.fm、Twitter和Vine。很少是Facebook。她说Facebook太2011年了。
My son, Penn, who is 15, will be asleep for hours yet. He was up all night with a friend playing two video games, Call of Duty and Eve, in a jag fueled by his four favorite foodlike substances: nacho cheese Doritos, Kit Kat candy bars, jelly beans and a Mountain Dew flavor variant known as Code Red. His is the prix fixe menu of the anti-gods.
我15岁的儿子佩恩(Penn)还得有一阵子才会去睡觉呢。他整夜都在和一个朋友打两个视频游戏，《使命召唤》(Call of Duty)和《Eve》，利用打游戏的间隔吃点他最喜欢的四种垃圾食品：多力多滋奶酪味玉米片、Kit Kat糖块、软心豆粒糖和一种被称为红色代码的类似激浪味的饮料。他吃的都是反天然的固定价格菜单上的东西。
My kids are smart, kind and more or less well adjusted. I like that they are comfortable and alert in the wired world, able to fish in it like young bears in a salmon stream. But increasingly I am terrified for them. It’s more apparent every day that screens have incrementally stolen them from themselves, and stolen them from us.
我的两个孩子聪明、善良，也或多或少地适应社会。我喜欢他们这样，在这个连线世界中自由自在，也很机敏，就像在三文鱼洄游的小溪里捉鱼的小熊那样。但是我越来越为他们感到恐惧。很明显，他们每天花在屏幕上的时间正一点一点地偷走他们的童年，也把他们从我们身边偷走。
My wife, Cree, and I have allowed them to drift quite distantly into the online world, and we fear our casualness has been a calamity. Our kids are paler than they should be, ill at ease with casual boredom, squirmy without Wi-Fi. Their grades are not what they should be. We fear we have left them, as it were, to their own devices.
我和妻子克里(Cree)一直没有管他们在网络世界中漂流到多远，但我们担心，我们的放任已经酿成灾难。我们的孩子比他们应有的肤色更显苍白，很难耐得住偶然的寂寞，没有Wi-Fi时显得急促不安。他们的成绩也比应该得到的要差。我们担心，我们把他们交给了他们的电子设备，任由他们自行其是。
Each summer Cree and I resolve, over a series of panicked breakfasts at our local diner, to rein things back in. This is when we draft stern rules for a new school year, strictures like: no laptops in bedrooms during the week; homework before screen time; no electronics after 10 p.m.; no iTunes purchases without advance permission, not even that 99-cent Rihanna remix.
每年夏天，克里和我坐在我家附近的餐馆里，在几顿慌慌然的早餐期间，下定决心要挽回事态。于是我们为新学年定下一套严格的规定：工作日期间卧室里不准放电脑；先做作业后再打开屏幕；晚上10点钟以后不能使用电子设备；没有得到事先批准不能买iTunes上的产品，甚至那个99美分的Rihanna混音也不行。
These rules invariably begin to crack by Day 3. By Day 4, there is pleading, and the discreet slamming of doors. By Day 5, Harriet is making cryptic remarks about us on Twitter. By Day 6, we are all aggrieved.
这些规定毫无例外地都在第三天就执行不下去了。到第四天请求开始了，还有小心的摔门声。到第五天，哈丽雅特就开始在Twitter上写一些对我们语义含糊的评论。到第六天，我们所有人都感到受了委屈。
By Day 7, Cree and I are threatening them with the treatment a friend calls “the Full Amish” — all plugs pulled. By Day 8, the start of the second week of school, no one is sure what the rules are anymore. We’re back where we started, and plump with dread.
到第七天， 克里和我开始威胁要对他们实施一个朋友称之为“全套阿米什式”的惩罚：拔掉所有的电源插头。第八天，也就是开学第二周的头一天，没有人再去管那些规定是什么了。我们回到了起点，继续充满了担忧。
This year it occurred to me we needed help. So I sat down with three new books that offer assistance, understanding and quasi-epic subtitles. They are: “The Big Disconnect: Protecting Childhood and Family Relationships in the Digital Age,” by Catherine Steiner-Adair with Teresa H. Barker; “The Distraction Addiction: Getting the Information You Need and the Communication You Want, Without Enraging Your Family, Annoying Your Colleagues, and Destroying Your Soul,” by Alex Soojung-Kim Pang; and “The App Generation: How Today’s Youth Navigate Identity, Intimacy, and Imagination in a Digital World,” by Howard Gardner and Katie Davis. (I read an advance copy of this last one; it won’t be published until October.)
今年我意识到，我们需要帮助。因此，我开始坐下来看三本提供帮助和理解的新书，这几本书的副标题都近乎史诗般地长。它们是：《大差距：数字化时代保护亲子关系》(The Big Disconnect: Protecting Childhood and Family Relationships in the Digital Age)，作者是凯瑟琳·斯泰纳-阿代尔(Catherine Steiner-Adair)和特雷莎·H·巴克尔(Teresa H. Barker)；《分心成瘾：获取你所需的信息以及你想要的交流，但不激怒你的家人、骚扰你的同事和摧毁你的心灵》(The Distraction Addiction: Getting the Information You Need and the Communication You Want, Without Enraging Your Family, Annoying Your Colleagues, and Destroying Your Soul)，作者是亚历克斯·索勇-金·庞(Alex Soojung-Kim Pang)；以及《应用软件的一代：今天的青年人如何在数字世界中驾驭身份、亲密行为以及想象》( The App Generation: How Today’s Youth Navigate Identity, Intimacy, and Imagination in a Digital World)作者是霍华德·加德纳 (Howard Gardner)和凯蒂·戴维斯 (Katie Davis)。（最后一本书我看的是提前版本，这本书最早到10月份才会出版。）
Consuming a short stack of self-help and academic books always reminds me what I dislike about the genres. These books are padded. The vital information in all three, about 900 pages combined, could be edited down and tattooed on my palm. They’re jargony and slogany. None made me laugh, or even smile.
阅读这一小摞自助书或学术专著总能提醒我，为什么我不喜欢这类书。这些书都过于啰嗦。这几本书加起来共900多页，但其中最重要的信息摘录下来，经编辑后能刻在我的手掌上。书中满是些术语和口号。但却没有哪句话能让我发笑，哪怕是微笑。
But it’s been a lifelong mistake of mine never to take advice from someone who can’t write like a demon. Probably it’s time to listen.
然而，我一生的错误是从来不听那些不够活力丰沛的书者的忠告。或许是该听听他们建议的时候了。
Ms. Steiner-Adair, the primary author of “The Big Disconnect,” is a clinical psychologist who teaches at Harvard Medical School. Her book is based on thousands of interviews, and it can be eloquent about the need to ration our children’s computer time.
《大差距》的主要作者斯泰纳-阿代尔是一个在哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)教书的临床心理学家。她的书的素材来自数千次的面谈，其中有关限制我家孩子玩电脑时间的必要性的解释可谓动人。
I will never forget the experience of reading Ms. Steiner-Adair’s book. This is because it physically hurt to turn the pages. It was as if her palm were reaching up from the text to slap me across the face, the way Don Corleone slapped the singer Johnny Fontane in the first “Godfather” movie, telling him to be a man.
我永远不会忘记阅读斯泰纳-阿代尔的书的感受。这是因为光翻阅书页都会让我感到切实的疼痛。好像她的手掌从文字之间伸出来，扇了我的脸似的，正如唐·科莱奥内 (Don Corleone)那样，在电影《教父》(Godfather)第一部中扇了歌手约翰尼·丰坦(Johnny Fontane)的脸，告诉他要像个男人的样子。
Here’s why: Before she speaks about how to pry our kids away from their phones, tablets and laptops, Ms. Steiner-Adair looks parents quite sternly in the eye. She describes a generation of us who are “unavailable, disconnected or narcissistic.” We spend the expanse of our days — even those of us paid to keep our eyes glued to the nonelectonic page — gazing into our phones, scanning for the next text, e-mail or tweet.
这是我为什么这样说的原因：在她讲述该如何让我们的孩子远离手机、平板电脑和笔记本之前，斯泰纳-阿代尔先相当严厉地教训了父母一顿。她把我们这一代人描述为“永远忙忙碌碌、不会与身边的人相处，或很自恋”。我们每天花大量的时间盯着手机，扫掠着下一条短信、电子邮件或tweet消息，就连我们当中那些靠看非电子书页拿工资的人也不例外。
The message we communicate to our kids, she writes, is: “Everybody else matters more than you.” Children, she declares, “are tired of being the ‘call waiting’ in their parents’ lives.”
她写道，我们向孩子们传递的信息是：“其他任何人都比你重要。”她说，孩子们“厌倦了当父母生活中的‘呼叫等待’者。”
Here the author has pinned me, squirming, to the specimen board. I like to think I’m a good father, perhaps even casually superb in my better moments, but there is zero doubt that, without my iPhone in my palm, I feel bereft. I’m fairly obsessive. I must change my life a bit.
作者逮住的正是我，尽管我反抗，还是被她钉上了耻辱柱。我喜欢把自己想象成一个好父亲，或许在自我感觉良好时，还会偶然把自己想得更好，但毫无疑问，如果没有iPhone在手，我会感到若有所失。我已经相当沉迷了。我必须让自己的生活有所改变。
Ms. Steiner-Adair has chastened me. Her advice is akin to that given on airplanes about the potential loss of cabin pressure: Put the oxygen mask on yourself before trying to help your children.
斯泰纳-阿代尔让我感到愧疚。她的建议有点像飞机上播放的、如果机舱内气压降低该如何做的指南：在试着帮孩子之前，先给自己戴上氧气面罩。
It’s much more agreeable to make rules for others, as every dictator is aware, than to police yourself. So here’s some of what I learned from “The Big Disconnect.” The author is big on privacy settings on computers used by children. She stresses speaking to them about online civility.
就像每个独裁者都知道的那样，给别人定规矩远比约束自己要更令人愉快。这是我从《大差距》中学到的一些东西。作者很热衷于孩子在电脑上的隐私。她强调要跟孩子讲网络礼节。
Her summary of what to say to your kids — it’s on Page 191 — is so good, so State of the Union-like, that I took a photo of it with my iPhone. It’s the most succinct thing in any of these books, so I am going to quote it at length. Harriet and Penn, imagine this is your father speaking:
她在第191页总结出来的、要对我们孩子说的那些话真棒，很有《国情咨文》(State of the Union)的水平，所以我用iPhone把这段拍照下来。这是这三本书中最简明的一段话，所以我大段引述如下。哈丽雅特和佩恩，想象这是你们父亲说的话吧：
“This is not your computer — I know it has your name on it, but this is my computer (or your school’s computer). I’m your parent, and I reserve the right to see everything that’s going on there. You need to be on the computer in an open place. I have the right to know what your homework assignment is. You can’t be in your room with the door closed. You can’t take it to bed with you. You can’t collapse a screen when I walk by. We have a code of conduct and we expect you to stick with it: Don’t be mean, don’t lie, don’t embarrass other people, don’t pretend to be someone you’re not, don’t go places you’re not allowed to go. Don’t post pictures that Grandma wouldn’t love. Don’t do anything I wouldn’t approve of.”
“这不是你的电脑，虽然我知道上面有你的名字，但这是我的电脑（或者是你学校的电脑）。我是你的家长，因此我有权看上面的一切内容。 你使用电脑时应该呆在一个公开场所。我有权知道你的家庭作业是什么。你不能呆在自己的房间里，关着房门。你不能把电脑带到床上去。你不能在我经过时把一个屏幕关闭。我们有行为准则，我们希望你能遵守：不刻薄、不撒谎、不让别人感到尴尬、不冒充是别人、不去不被允许去的地方。不要贴奶奶不会喜欢的图片。不要做任何没有经过我批准的事。”
As I said, this will never work.
就像我所说的，这永远不会凑效。
Mr. Pang, the author of “The Distraction Addiction,” is a futurist who has been a visiting scholar at Stanford and Oxford Universities. His book isn’t so much about parenting as it is about what he calls “contemplative computing.” He gets pretty Zen. I can see Keanu Reeves in the film version.
《分心成瘾》的作者庞先生曾在斯坦福大学(Stanford)和牛津大学(Oxford)做过访问学者，他是个未来主义者。他的书大多不是教人如何当父母，而是有关他称之为“深思熟虑地使用电脑”的问题。他很有点禅宗味道。我能想象基努·里夫斯 (Keanu Reeves)扮演其电影版本中的角色。
Mr. Pang doesn’t want you to unplug. He wants you to achieve balance, to “reach flow,” to achieve a “mirrorlike mind.” His first seven chapters are titled: Breathe, Simplify, Meditate, Deprogram, Experiment, Refocus and Rest. In one of my favorite locutions of 2013, he suggests that it is possible to go about “tweeting mindfully.”
庞先生不让你切断电源。他要让你达到平衡，“达到自由自在”，实现一种“镜子似的心灵”。他的书前7章的标题分别是：深呼吸、简化生活、沉思冥想、改变旧习、尝试、再聚焦、休息。他建议“谨慎地发Twitter帖子”是可能的，这是我2013年最喜欢的语句之一。
“Tweeting mindfully means knowing your intentions; knowing why you’re online right now and asking yourself if you’re on for the right reasons,” he declares. Here’s a pro tip: The mindful tweeters are the ones to unfollow immediately.
他宣称，“谨慎地发Twitter帖子意味着知道自己的意图；知道你为什么此刻在线，并自问在线的理由是否正确。”下面是我给的专业暗示：如果遇到谨慎地发帖子的人，你应该马上取消对其的关注。
Mr. Pang’s book aligns with Ms. Steiner-Adair’s in his arguments for leaving your electronics behind, at least on occasion, and doing what he calls “intensely analog things.” These include baking enough coffeecake “to get you through the rest of the 800-page novel penned by the latest writer to burst from Brooklyn’s literary scene,” which sounds exactly like my kind of analog scene.
庞先生的书与斯泰纳-阿代尔的书在让你离开电子设备方面的观点一致，至少应该偶尔离开，去做他称之为“极度模拟的事情”。这包括烘烤很多咖啡蛋糕，足够你边吃边“读完布鲁克林文学圈中涌现出的最新作家写的800页的小说为止”，这听上去简直跟我那种模拟场景一模一样。
“The App Generation,” by Howard Gardner and Katie Davis, is a slab of groaning sociology that nonetheless possesses an interesting insight. “Young people growing up in our time are not only immersed in apps,” the authors write, “they’ve come to think of the world as an ensemble of apps, to see their lives as a string of ordered apps, or perhaps, in many cases, a single, extended, cradle-to-grave app.”
霍华德·加德纳和凯蒂·戴维斯写的《应用软件的一代》是一本呻吟般的社会学大部头，但也有一些有意思的见地。作者写道，“在我们这个时代长大的年轻人，不仅仅痴迷于应用软件，他们已经开始将这个世界当做一个应用软件的集合体，将他们的生命看作是一连串有序排列的应用软件，或许在许多情况下，是一个单一的、延续的、从摇篮到坟墓的应用软件。”
Mr. Gardner is a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education; Ms. Davis is an assistant professor at the University of Washington Information School. They see the upsides as well as the downsides of an app-driven life. At its best, their book has a moral quality that put me in mind of something Bill Gates recently said in an interview: “When a kid gets diarrhea, no, there’s no Web site that relieves that.”
加德纳是哈佛教育学研究生院(Harvard Graduate School of Education)的教授；戴维斯是华盛顿大学信息学院(University of Washington Information School)的副教授。他们既看到由应用软件操纵的生命中的正面东西，也看到了其负面的东西。从最好的角度来看，他们的书有一种道德力量，让我想起比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)最近在一次采访中说的一句话：“当一个孩子患腹泻时，没有一个网站能减轻其症状。”
Cree and I are still hammering out our kids’ computer rules for the 2013-14 school year. We are trying to keep in mind that we’re not our kids’ best friends, dammit, we’re their parents.
克里和我依然在推敲我家孩子在2013-14学年使用电脑的规定。我们试图让自己记住，我们不是孩子最好的朋友；该死的，我们是他们的家长。
And we are wondering if there’s an app for fortitude.
我们也想知道，是否有一款帮人鼓起勇气的应用软件。