The father knelt beside his hesitant daughter and gently encouraged her to set aside her fears and take a seat.
父亲跪在迟疑的女儿身旁，慢慢鼓励她不要害怕，坐下来。
“Don’t worry,” he whispered in her ear during a family outing to the circus, “it’s just a little kitty.”
在全家外出观看马戏团表演的时候，父亲在她耳边轻声说道，“不要担心，这只是一只小猫。”
But in fact, lounging on a low pedestal in the foyer of the Nikulin Circus in Moscow, and lazily twitching a long, tawny tail, the tigress named Chanel was no kitty at all.
但实际上，在莫斯科尼库林马戏团(Nikulin Circus)门厅的低矮基座上蹲坐着的根本不是一只猫，而是一只名为沙内尔(Chanel)的雌性老虎，她懒洋洋地摆动着自己的黄褐色长尾巴。
She was a fully grown Siberian tiger, whose trainers use her as a toothy prop in one of the more alarming rituals of the Russian circus: the practice of photographing small children with predators during breaks in the show.
这是一只成年东北虎，沙内尔的驯兽师们将她当作长着长牙的道具，在中场休息期间，为小孩和猛兽拍合影，这是该马戏团一个比较令人震惊的做法。
At intermission, she pads out on paws the size of saucers and takes a seat. While children crowd around, the huge and iridescent pools of her yellow eyes gaze back, inscrutable and wild, and wholly mysterious on the pressing question one concerned youngster had for her mother: “Do you think she is full?”
中场休息时，沙内尔伸出盘子大小的爪子，坐了下来。当一群孩子围绕在她身边时，它瞪着一双铜铃般的黄色眼睛凝视着他们，神秘莫测，充满野性。一个孩子不放心，急切地问她的妈妈，“它吃饱了吗？”沙内尔完全是一个谜。
When asked about the risk, Andrei Y. Logulov, a thin, clean-cut chemical engineer who was encouraging his daughter, 11-year-old Diana, to approach Chanel for a picture, shrugged like so many other Russians in so many other contexts.
身材消瘦、轮廓分明的化学工程师安德烈·Y·洛古洛夫(Andrei Y. Logulov)正在鼓励11岁的女儿戴安娜(Diana)靠近沙内尔拍一张合影，当被问及这么做是否有风险时，洛古洛夫耸了耸肩，以典型的俄罗斯肢体语言进行回应。
“Of course this is risky,” Mr. Logulov said, “but risk is everywhere in life. A brick could fall on your head in the street, for example. And this is just a small risk.”
“当然，这会有风险，”洛古洛夫说，“但生活中风险无处不在。例如，当你走在大街上时，一块砖可能会砸到你的头。而这只是一个小风险。”
Placing children beside carnivorous beasts — even for a fleeting second as the trainer steps aside for a photograph — illustrates a deep-seated and widespread quality in Russian culture: This is a nation of inveterate risk takers.
将孩子放在掠食动物身边——哪怕只有短短的一秒钟，也就是驯兽师为了不影响拍照而避开的那一秒钟——的行为展现了俄罗斯文化中的一个根深蒂固的、普遍存在的特性：这是一个有冒险嗜好的国家。
In the 19th century, the author Mikhail Lermontov was so amazed by this quality of fatalism he created a character in the novel “A Hero of Our Time” who played Russian roulette with a single-shot pistol.
在19世纪，这种宿命论特性让米哈伊尔·莱蒙托夫(Mikhail Lermontov)惊叹不已，因此他在小说《当代英雄》(A Hero of Our Time)中塑造了一个拿着单发手枪玩俄式轮盘赌的人物。
That character is saved by a misfire. But even today, in business and politics, finance and aviation, a cavalier attitude to danger is deeply ingrained. In just one example, the mortality rate on the roads in Russia is about 3.6 times as high as in the United States. In the Soviet period, the joke for visitors was “the red flag at the airport was your last warning.”
这个人物因手枪走火而捡回了一条命。但即便在今天，在商业、政治、金融及航空领域，对风险的蔑视态度仍然根深蒂固。举一个例子，俄罗斯的公路死亡率是美国的3.6倍。在苏联时期，有一个讲给游客的笑话——“机场的红色旗帜是给你的最后警告”。
All this makes Russia the land of the preventable accident, the tragic outcome and the bet gone bad, in the circus as elsewhere.
这一切致使俄罗斯经常出现可以预防的事故、悲剧性后果及失败的赌局，马戏团和其他地方都是如此。
And “accidents” there have been. Last year a tiger with a traveling circus bit the head of a 2-year-old boy during a photo session in the Far East city of Blagoveshchensk; the boy survived, though the bite reportedly fractured his skull.
这个行业的确发生过很多“事故”。去年，在远东城市布拉戈维申斯克，一个巡回马戏团里的一只老虎在拍照时咬了一个两岁男孩的头部，这名男孩最终获救，但据称，男孩颅骨出现破裂。
Also in recent years, a snow leopard scratched a schoolgirl at a traveling tent circus outside Moscow, and a tiger bit a spectator in the Black Sea resort of Sochi.
也是在最近几年，一家巡回马戏团在莫斯科城外的帐篷中表演时，雪豹抓伤了一名女学生；在黑海度假胜地索契，老虎咬了一名观众。
Because of such unfortunate episodes, allowing children near predators during the intermissions and before shows for photographs has become problematic, even for Russians.
由于发生了这些不幸事件，在中场休息期间及演出开始前让孩子靠近掠食动物拍照已经变成了一个存在争议的问题，即便对于俄罗斯人来说，这也是一个问题。
Of the roughly 90 species of animals used in Russian circuses, a dozen or so are deemed by circus administrators as particularly dangerous: monkeys, tigers, lions, lynxes, pumas, bears, sea lions, walruses, eagles, kangaroos, hippopotamuses, rhinoceroses and elephants.
俄罗斯马戏团中约有90种动物，大约有十几种动物被马戏团管理人员列为特别危险：猴子、老虎、狮子、山猫、美洲狮、熊、海狮、海象、鹰、袋鼠、河马、犀牛及大象。
Yet, for the extra thrill and income, the roughly 100 circuses that were privatized after the Soviet collapse routinely allow a relatively tame member of one of these species to stroll out into the entrance hall during breaks for photographs. At the Nikulin Circus a picture with a tiger costs $18, and one with a bear is $15. The approximately 70 circuses that are still run by the state have prohibited such practices since 2010.
苏联解体后，大约有100家马戏团实现私有化，为了提供更多刺激，获得更多收入，它们通常允许马戏团中相对顺从的动物在休息期间走出门廊，供人拍照。在尼库林马戏团，与老虎合影的费用为18美元（约合110元人民币），与熊合影的费用为15美元。俄罗斯大约有70家国有马戏团，这些马戏团从2010年起禁止与动物合影。
Boris E. Maikhrovsky, a deputy director in charge of animal acts at Rosgostsirk, the state circus company, and a trainer of sea lions and penguins, said putting children beside predators was inherently unsafe.
俄罗斯国有马戏公司罗斯戈斯特西尔克(Rosgostsirk)负责动物表演的副经理、海狮和企鹅训练师鲍里斯·E·迈赫罗夫斯基(Boris E. Maikhrovsky)说，把儿童放在食肉动物旁边本来就不安全。
It is, he said, not so much illustrative of Russian fatalism as a sign of the profit motive overwhelming common sense. Mr. Maikhrovsky is advocating in the Russian Senate for a law that would prohibit taking children’s pictures with predatory animals.
他说，与其说这体现了俄罗斯的宿命论观点，还不如说人们对利益的追求掩盖了常识。迈赫罗夫斯基正在敦促俄罗斯参议院制定一条法律，禁止人们拍摄儿童与猛兽在一起的照片。
“We have an order categorically forbidding photographing with animals,” Mr. Maikhrovsky said in an interview. “Whoever does this knows it will end badly one day. We can never know what is in the head of an animal. Even a cat will scratch sometimes.” Trainers sometimes drug big cats before such photo sessions, he said, though that does not always help.
“我们有一条明确禁止与动物拍照的命令，”迈赫罗夫斯基在采访中说。“这样做的人都知道总有一天会大事不妙。我们永远无法了解动物的想法。连猫有时候都会抓人。”驯兽师有时候会在拍照环节开始前给大型猫科动物用药，他说，虽然这样做并不总是有用。
Maksim Y. Nikulin, the director of the Nikulin Circus and the scion of a prominent family of circus performers, defended the sessions as safe and a fine example of showmanship. Besides, he said, the appearance of danger is integral to the circus arts. “The elements of surprise and danger make the spectacle,” he said.
尼库林马戏团的负责人、著名马戏表演世家的继承人马克西姆·Y·尼库林(Maksim Y. Nikulin)辩称，拍照环节是安全的，而且它还极好地展示了表演技巧。此外，他说，表面上的危险性是马戏艺术不可或缺的一部分。他说，“正是惊奇与危险的因素造就了奇观。”
“People go to the circus for adrenaline,” he said. “If it appeared to be entirely safe it would not be interesting. You watch and you think, ‘Oh, that man could be eaten right now,’ or ‘That gymnast could fall right now.’ ”
“人们来马戏团就是为了寻找刺激，”他说。“如果马戏表演看起来绝对安全的话，就没什么趣味了。你边看边想，‘啊，那个人可能马上就被吃掉了’，或者‘那个体操表演者要掉下来了’。”
Yes, but “Ooh, that tiger could bite my head off?” Chanel, Mr. Nikulin said, is an inherently calm tiger desensitized from an early age to the squeals of children and even the occasional ill-advised pinch. He denied she is drugged.
的确，但是这个问题呢：“哇，那只老虎会把我的头咬掉吗？”尼库林说，沙内尔天性冷静，很小的时候就对孩子们的尖叫，以及偶尔发生的不当捏掐失去了感觉。他否认沙内尔被施了药。
Out on her stage during a recent intermission, Chanel gazed blankly at the crowd of children, and if she harbored a latent appetite for 5-year-olds, it was not obvious.
最近一次中场休息时，沙内尔在舞台上眼神空洞地看着面前的孩子，如果她对那些5岁的孩子们有少许的胃口，也看不出来。
Mikhail Zaretsky, her trainer, explained the safety precautions he takes, like feeding the animal a hearty meal of more than 10 pounds of raw beef before a photo session. He also distracts her by letting her lick his hand.
沙内尔的驯兽师米哈伊尔·扎列茨基(Mikhail Zaretsky)解释了他所采取的安全防范措施，比如，他会在拍照环节之前，给她十几磅生牛肉（超过4.54千克）让她美餐一顿。为了让她转移注意力，他还会让她舔自己的手。
As Diana took a seat, she stretched her spindly arm over Chanel’s neck, petting her gently in a moment any cat lover would recognize and covet.
黛安娜坐下来，把她细长的手臂搭在了沙内尔的脖子上，轻轻地抚摸着她，这是一个任何爱猫的人都能体会而且羡慕的时刻。
In the crowd, some parents talked their skittish children into being photographed, while others tried to talk their children out of it.
人群中，有些家长成功说服了自己紧张不安的孩子前去拍照，而另一些家长则在试图说服孩子不要去拍照。
One woman who has been working at a nearby ice cream stand for years rolled her eyes and said, “Praise God, nothing bad has happened here.”
在附近的冰激凌摊工作了好几年的一个女士转了转眼珠说，“感谢上帝，这里还没发生过什么不好的事。”
Meanwhile, Anya, a 6-year-old with a white bow in her hair, stood at the edge of Chanel’s small roped enclosure. She looked at the tiger, then looked up at her mother and said, “I’m afraid.”
这时，头发上戴着白蝴蝶结的6岁女孩安雅(Anya)站在了沙内尔被绳索围起来的小型场地边缘。她看了看沙内尔，然后抬起头望着自己的妈妈说，“我怕。”
The mother, Yulia M. Baranova, decided not to take the picture.
她的妈妈尤利娅·M·巴拉诺娃(Yulia M. Baranova)决定不拍这张照片。
“We looked at her teeth, we looked at her claws,” she said, and moved on to the stands offering cotton candy, vampire teeth and yo-yos.
“我们看了看她的牙齿，又看了看她的爪子，”她说，然后就去了旁边的小摊子，那里有棉花糖、吸血鬼的尖牙，还有溜溜球。