This week’s expert, Danielle Galland, an interior designer, is answering readers’ questions about two kinds of living transitions that many baby boomers face: the semi-empty nest, with children leaving for college but returning during breaks, and the empty nest geared toward retirement.
本周的专家是室内设计师丹尼尔·加兰(Danielle Galland)，她将回答读者的提问，讨论“婴儿潮一代”的很多人所面临的两种生活转变：孩子去上大学、但假期回家的“半空巢状态”，以及随退休而来的“空巢状态”。
Ms. Galland started her own firm in New York City, Danielle Galland Interior Design Inc., in 2004. Since 2011 she has taught classes in hand drawing and rendering at the New York School of Interior Design. Previously she taught at Parsons the New School for Design. She received her M.A. in the history of the decorative arts from the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum Program.
加兰于2004年在纽约开了一家自己的公司，丹尼尔·加兰室内设计公司(Danielle Galland Interior Design Inc.)。2011年以来，她一直在纽约室内设计学校(New York School of Interior Design)开班讲授手绘图与效果图，此前她曾在帕森设计学院(Parsons the New School for Design)教课。她从库伯-休伊特国立设计博物馆(Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum)的装饰艺术史专业获得了艺术硕士(MA)学位。
Rethinking the Role of Childhood Bedrooms
重新思考儿童房的角色
Q. Move forward. Downsize ,and live your life. Your children don’t need or want a memorial to their childhood when they come home. They want and need to see you happy and productive. Sleeping arrangements are secondary. — mlg56, Vermont
问：向前看、做精简、过你自己的生活。当你的孩子回家时，他们既不需要、也不想要一间童年纪念馆。他们需要和想要的，就是看见你生活得快乐、富足。睡觉的安排都是次要的。——mlg56，佛蒙特州(Vermont)
Q. Mine is about to fly the coop, and my intention is to store most of the childhood paraphernalia, and make over the room into a really welcoming guest room, which I hope she and our friends will enjoy frequently. She won’t need a closet full of clothes — long-term keepers can go into storage, so that opens a lot of space. We will keep many of her beloved books, artwork, and still leave room for the new adventures and memories when they come. — Constance, Oregon
问：我的孩子即将离开家，所以我打算把孩子小时候的大多数随身物品都存放起来，把她那个房间改成一间真正舒适的客房，希望她和我们的朋友们都能偶尔住上一阵。她不再需要一橱柜的衣服——把能长期存放的都收起来，那样可以腾出很多空间。我们会留下许多她喜欢的书和图画，但也会为将要到来的新生活和记忆留出空间——康斯坦斯(Constance)，俄勒冈州(Oregon)
A. A couple of readers commented on the role of childhood bedrooms once the children were out of the house. Generally I agree with mlg56’s instinct to “Move forward,” and Constance from Oregon’s plan to store away her daughter’s keepsakes so she can create a beautiful inviting guest bedroom. Keeping the childhood bedroom intact is not necessarily a benefit to the child or the parent, as eventually it becomes a cleanout that must be dealt with, and time only makes the task at hand look more unappealing to execute.
答：有几位读者对于孩子离开家后儿童房所扮演的角色做了评论。大体上，我赞同mlg56“向前看”的想法，还有俄勒冈州读者康斯坦斯的计划，她想把女儿的物品都存放起来，以便布置出一间请客人来住的漂亮卧室。原封不动地保留孩子的卧室，无论对孩子还是父母来说，都不一定有什么好处。因为它迟早会变成一次不得不去做的大扫除，而时间的流逝只会让这项迫在眉睫的任务显得越发令人不想去做。
That said, I think freshening up a current or former child’s bedroom with a nod to their childhood can be a sweet way to commemorate their place in the home while decluttering and possibly dispensing with those decorating phases that were not your favorite to live with as a parent. I would suggest taking a few select artworks, awards, photos and other ephemera and framing them in a series of cohesive frames, and then hanging them along one wall in a grouped composition. It’s fun, it allows for recognition of your child, but also removes the question of whose space it is meant to cater to in the future.
即便如此，我想，在将一间现在或从前的儿童房变得焕然一新时，也保留孩子童年时代的一点念想，可能是个美好的做法，既可以清理那些让你作为父母并不太喜欢的日常装饰物，又能纪念他们在这个家中的位置。我会建议你选择几幅画、几张奖状、几张照片以及其它凝结着某个短暂时刻的东西，将它们装裱起来，变成一组彼此关联的挂画，排列在墙上，形成一面照片墙。这很有乐趣，既考虑到了对孩子的认可，又解决了这个房间将来要迎合谁的使用需要的问题。
On a more personal note, I recall when I first went to my future in-laws home while dating my husband-to-be when we were in our early 20s. Staying in his childhood bedroom with all the trophies and posters and his twin bed, while enlightening, was definitely a less than comfortable and a slightly awkward experience. As we grew into our late 20s, his twin was changed out for a queen bed, and the room was redecorated. I think he and I both slept better in the room knowing it no longer housed the vestiges of those strange teenage years.
就我个人的经历而言，记得我刚刚20岁出头，在和后来成为我丈夫的男友约会时，第一次去看望他的父母。我们住在他儿时的卧室里，到处是奖品和海报，还有一张他的单人床。虽然这番经历能让我对他增进了解，但也的确令人有些局促和尴尬。到我们快要30岁的时候，他的单人床换成了一张皇后床（queen bed，1.5米宽的床——译注），房间也被重新装修。房间里不再有那些青涩少年时代的痕迹，我和他都睡得安稳多了。
Q. Thinking of turning one of my kids’ rooms into a fitness room with a TRX and stretching areas. What do you think? How would you design it? I don’t need cardio equipment and this is a small bedroom. Thanks. — CPS, Colo.
问：我正想着把家里的儿童房改成健身房，安装一个悬挂训练系统(TRX)和几个柔韧度训练区。你觉得怎么样？你会如何设计这个房间呢？我不需要心脏锻炼的设备，而且这是一间小卧室。谢谢。——CPS，科罗拉多州(Colo.)
A. Dear CPS: Converting an underutilized bedroom into a home gym makes a great deal of sense. Personally, I would prioritize adding entertainment to the room (i.e., a small wall-mounted television) so you can multitask while exercising. If possible, orient the equipment so you can see out the windows or look at something beautiful while working out, again, giving your eye something to focus on. Finally, adding a good floor of padded matting as either an area rug or installed wall to wall is a nice luxury. It will feel great under foot and will keep the equipment from scratching the existing floors.
答：亲爱的CPS：把一间不常用的卧室改成家庭健身房真的非常有意义。就我个人而言，我会优先在房间里增加娱乐设施（就是一台挂在墙上的小电视）。这样，你在锻炼身体的时候，就可以同时进行多项任务。如果可能的话，调整好设备的位置，这样你在健身的时候，可以看到窗外景色或某些美好的事物，也就是说，让你的眼睛有点什么东西可看。最后，加一块有填充物的垫子，既可以是一小块地垫，也可以铺满整个地板。这是一种不错的享受，不但能让脚下感觉比较舒服，而且还可防止健身设备刮花现在的地面。
Q. Redoing my son’s bedroom as a guest room. Would like to replace an ugly ceiling light fixture but just can’t seem to find anything I really like. Needs to provide good light. The décor will be modern and minimalist — dark wood floors and furniture. I would like something interesting but quiet. Any thoughts? (eight-foot ceiling) — CB, Bloomington, Ind.
问：我正把儿子的卧室改成一间客卧。想把一个难看的顶灯换掉，但似乎就是找不到我真正喜欢的那种。需要提供充分的照明。装修设计是现代化和极简主义风格——深色实木地板和家具。所以我想要有趣而又内敛的东西。有什么想法吗？（8英尺[约2.4米]高的天花板）——CB，布卢明顿(Bloomington)，印第安纳州(Ind.)
A. Dear CB: In your situation I like to use linen or paper-covered drum-shaped fixtures that are surface mounted and house at least two or three 60 watt or higher bulbs. Ranging in size from 10 to 15 inches in diameter, by 3 to 5 inches high, these styles of lighting fixtures are relatively easy to find, and very simple in form. Lights along these lines work well as they are modern, yet nondescript and quietly provide good general illumination on a lower ceiling.
答：亲爱的CB：根据你的情况，我想选用表面裱有亚麻或纸质材料的鼓形照明灯，至少可以装两、三个60瓦或更大的灯泡。直径从10英寸到15英寸（约合25厘米到38厘米）不等，而高度大约在3到5英寸（约合7.6厘米到12.7厘米）之间。这种风格的照明装置相对容易找到，而且外观非常简洁。这类灯具的照明效果非常好，因为它们既有现代感，又不太显眼，而且在较低的天花板上可以低调地提供优质的全面照明。