TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced on Wednesday a plan to revise a pacifist constitution that has been in place since it was enacted by American occupiers in 1947.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三周三宣布计划修订1947年美国占领时期颁布的和平宪法。
In a video message delivered at a celebration of the 70th anniversary of the constitution, Abe said he wanted to make “explicit the status” of the country’s self-defense forces, as Japan’s military is known, by amending the constitution by 2020.
安倍通过一场庆祝宪法实施70周年的活动中发布的一段视频表示，他想在2020年前修订这部宪法，以“明确”日本自卫队即日本军队的“地位”。
As Japan faces continuing security threats from North Korea, Abe said that there should be no room for arguing that the military, with just over 227,000 active-duty troops, “may be unconstitutional.”
安倍表示，在日本持续受到来自朝鲜的安全威胁之时，对于只有22.7万现役军人的军队，不应该存在“或许违宪”这样的争论。
Japan has stepped up its show of military force amid concerns about North Korea’s provocative behavior, sending two naval destroyers to join the U.S. aircraft carrier Carl Vinson in exercises off the Korean Peninsula. And on Monday, a Japanese warship accompanied a U.S. Navy supply ship headed to join the Carl Vinson and three other warships in a strike group.
出于对朝鲜挑衅行为的担忧，日本开始加大对自身军事力量的展示，派出两艘驱逐舰与美国的卡尔文森号(Carl Vinson)航空母舰一起在朝鲜半岛附近水域进行军事演习。周一，一艘美国海军补给船在一艘日本军舰护送下，与卡尔文森号及战斗群中另外三艘军舰会和。
Pacifism is enshrined in the constitution, with a clause known as Article 9 calling for the complete renunciation of war. That clause represents a cherished part of the country’s postwar identity, and Abe has long made clear his desire to amend it. Previous calls to revise it have been met with skepticism in Japan and in countries including China and South Korea that object to any signs of Japan’s remilitarization.
和平主义被载入了这部宪法，其中的第九条要求日本完全放弃战争。该条款代表着日本战后身份中十分珍贵的一部分，安倍一直明确表示想要修订它。之前发出的修宪呼吁，在日本以及包括中国、韩国在内的国家受到质疑，它们反对日本出现任何重整军备的迹象。
Successive Japanese governments, as well as scholars, have argued that the military is constitutional because the charter allows the country to defend itself.
连续几届日本政府和多名学者主张，发展军事是符合宪法的，因为它允许日本自卫。
But Abe has pushed for a much broader interpretation, and two years ago he helped secure passage of security legislation that authorized overseas combat missions by the military in the name of “collective self-defense” and alongside allied troops. The passage of the laws came after a grinding political battle and days of public demonstrations.
但安倍在推动的修宪幅度要大得多，两年前一项安全立法在他支持下得到通过，授权日本军队以“集体自卫”的名义与盟军部队一起参与海外作战任务。这项立法得到批准之前，日本经历了一场激烈的政治角斗以及持续数日的民众示威活动。
About 55,000 people attended a meeting in Tokyo opposing the amendment, and opposition was strong on social media. But others suggested that Abe was merely trying to align the constitution with current practice.
有大约5.5万人参加了在东京举行的一场反对修宪的集会，社交媒体上的抵制情绪也非常强烈。但也有人表示，安倍只是在努力让宪法适应当下的情况。
Any revision would be subject to approval in a referendum. A poll published this week by Kyodo News showed that respondents were nearly equally split on the question of whether the pacifist clause should be revised.
宪法的任何修订都需要在全民公投中获得批准。日本共同社(Kyodo News)本周发布的一项民意调查结果显示，在和平条款是否该被修订的问题上，同意和反对意见接近持平。