TOKYO — First, a rat gnawed through exposed wiring, setting off a scramble to end yet another blackout of vital cooling systems at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant. Then, hastily built pits for a flood of contaminated water sprang leaks themselves. Now, a new rush of radioactive water has breached a barrier built to stop it, allowing heavily contaminated water to spill daily into the Pacific.
东京——先是一只老鼠啃断了暴露在外的线路，导致福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)至关重要的冷却系统再一次停止工作，经过手忙脚乱的抢修才恢复正常。然后是为了存储大量污染水而匆忙建起的水池开始泄漏。现在为了阻止泄漏而建起的防护屏障又被新一波放射性水冲破了，大量严重污染的水每天都在流入太平洋。
As the scope of the latest crisis became clearer on Wednesday, Japan’s popular prime minister, Shinzo Abe, ordered his government to intervene in the cleanup of the plant — taking a more direct role than any government since the triple meltdowns in 2011 qualified Fukushima as the world’s second worst nuclear disaster.
随着新一轮危机的事态在周四变得明朗起来，深得民意的日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)下令政府对电厂清理工作进行干预——自电厂反应堆融毁以来，还没有哪届政府采取过如此直接的行动。在2011年，那场导致三个反应堆融毁的事故给福岛带来了世界第二大核灾难。
Mr. Abe, a staunch defender of the country’s nuclear program, appears to have calculated that he needed to intervene to rebuild public trust and salvage a pillar of his economic revival plan: the restarting of many idled nuclear plants. That trust has been eroded not only by the original catastrophe, but also by two and a half years of sometimes dangerous missteps by the plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, and what many Japanese see as the company’s continuing attempts to mislead the public and cover up deteriorating conditions at the plant.
安倍晋三是日本核项目的坚定支持者，他似乎已经作出判断，自己需要予以干预，来重建公众信心，拯救他的经济复苏计划的部分核心内容：重启许多处于闲置状态的核电厂。侵蚀信心的不只是最初的灾难，还有电厂运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）在这两年半里时不时犯下的一些危险的错误。在很多日本人看来，这家公司一直在试图误导公众，以掩盖电厂状况日趋恶化的事实。
“This is not an issue we can let Tepco take complete responsibility of,” Mr. Abe told a group of cabinet ministers gathered to discuss the water problem that has swiftly emerged as the biggest challenge at the plant and that appears to be spiraling out of control. “We must deal with this at the national level.”
在就污水问题召集的内阁会议上，安倍晋三说，“我们不能让东电独自去承担这个责任，”污水问题已经迅速成为电厂面临的最大挑战，而且似乎即将失控。“我们必须从国家的层面上来应对此事。”
But taking a bigger role in a vast and unprecedented cleanup may also be a political gamble for Mr. Abe, especially if the government proves as unable as Tepco to contain the unending leaks of radioactive materials from the devastated plant.
但是要在一场大规模的、空前的清理行动中发挥更大的作用，对安倍来说是一次政治赌博，尤其考虑到万一结果证明，政府和东电一样无力解决受损电厂的放射性物质泄漏问题。
Many analysts said Mr. Abe’s move was an admission that previous governments had erred by entrusting the 40-year, $11 billion cleanup to the same company that many blame for allowing the catastrophe to happen in the first place. Tepco’s leadership has been particularly worrisome, critics say, since it remains enmeshed in the collusive ties between the government and the industry that many say made the plant vulnerable.
许多分析人士说，安倍的举动是在承认前任政府犯了错，将耗时40年、耗资110亿美元的清理行动交给东电，而许多人指责称，当初之所以发生如此的浩劫，本身就跟这家公司犯的错有关。批评人士说，东电领导层一直都令人担忧，因为他们仍然深陷政府和核电产业界的共谋泥潭之中，很多人认为这也令电厂格外脆弱。
“This is an admission by the government that Tepco has mismanaged the cleanup and misinformed the public,” said Eiji Yamaguchi, a professor of science and technology policy at Doshisha University in Kyoto. “The government has no choice but to end two years of Tepco obfuscating the actual condition of the plant.”
“这是政府在承认，东电的清理行动管理不善，误导公众，”京都同志社大学科技政策教授山口荣一(Eiji Yamaguchi)说。“政府别无选择，只能出手阻止两年来一直在掩盖电厂真实状况的东电。”
The groundwater problems at the plant started soon after the disaster, when Tepco realized that tons of water flowing from the mountains and toward the sea were pouring into the contaminated reactor buildings, filling their basements with water that had to be pumped out. But the company was slow to come up with longer-term solutions, like digging wells to draw out the water before it reached the buildings. Then, in May, Tepco realized it had a new problem, with contaminants apparently leaking from a maze of conduits near the wrecked reactors causing a spike in radiation levels in groundwater elsewhere in the plant.
地下水问题是在地震发生后不久出现的，当时东京电力公司发现，从山上流向海洋的水成吨地涌入被污染的反应堆厂房，积在地下室里，这些水必须被抽出来。但是东电公司迟迟拿不出长远一些的解决方案，比如挖一些沟槽，在水流入厂房之前就把它们引走。然后到了5月，东电公司又发现了一个新问题：事故反应堆附近有一些迷宫一样的管道，明显是从那里泄漏出来的污染物导致了核电厂其他地方的地下水辐射水平骤然升高。
It began to build an underground “wall” created by injected hardening chemicals into the soil — even as it denied there was a threat to the ocean — but the barrier created a dam and water pooled behind it eventually began to flow over. On Wednesday, government officials said they believed 300 tons, or 75,000 gallons, of the tainted water was entering the ocean daily.
虽然东电公司否认海洋遭受威胁，它还是开始把化学硬化剂注入土壤里，试图建造一堵地下“墙”。 但这个屏障形成了一道大坝， 坝里的水越积越多，终于溢了出来。本周三，政府官员说，他们相信每天有300吨（7.5万加仑）受污染的水流入海洋。 
The amounts of some radioactive materials, like cancer-causing strontium, flowing into the ocean are above safety limits, but experts say that given the size of the plant’s previous releases, the new ones are relatively minor.
流入海里的一些放射性物质，比如有致癌性的锶，其含量超过了安全限度，但专家们说，以核电站先前的泄漏量来看，新的泄漏量不算大。
Some experts suggested Wednesday that the government’s intervention may be the first step in attempts to win public acceptance for what they say is an increasing inevitability: the dumping into the ocean of some of the less contaminated of the huge amount of water being stored in hulking tanks that are overwhelming the plant. At a news conference last week, Shunichi Tanaka, chairman of Japan’s Nuclear Regulation Authority, seemed to lay the groundwork, saying that eventually “it will be necessary to discharge water,” a possible solution likely to raise concerns not only in Japan but in other Pacific Rim countries.
一些专家本周三表示，要让公众接受“越来越不可避免”的事情，政府进行干预可能是第一步。他们所说的就是，把一部分受污染较少的水倾倒入海洋，目前有大量受污染的水存储在大水罐里，其数量让核电厂日益难以承受。在上周的新闻发布会上，日本原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)的主席田中俊一(Shunichi Tanaka)似乎就此打下铺垫，他说，最终“有必要把水排出”，这个方案是可能的，但它也可能会引起不仅是日本国内，还有其他环太平洋国家的担忧。
Whether the government intervention will help remedy the groundwater issue is an open question, Mr. Yamaguchi and others said. The government’s expanded role will probably be led by the Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry, or METI, which has been criticized as having close ties to Tepco and the rest of the nuclear industry which it nurtured since before Japan’s first commercial reactor went online in the 1960s. Other aspects of the Fukushima plant’s decommissioning have also been dominated by other members of Japan’s collusive “nuclear village,” as the close-knit industry is called, including reactor makers and politically connected large construction companies.
山口荣一和其他人表示，政府干预是否能解决地下水问题很难说。这件事可能会由日本经济产业省(Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)来牵头，自从日本的第一个商业核反应堆在20世纪60年代并网运行以来，经济产业省就跟东电公司以及它扶持的其他核产业公司关系密切，而且也因此遭到了诟病。涉及拆除福岛核电站的其他事务，也一直被日本的“原子力村”(nuclear village)里互相勾结的其他成员把持着。人们将这一称谓赋予成员关系紧密的核产业，其中包括反应堆制造商和跟政界走得很近的大型建筑公司。
Experts have long worried that the government erred early on by refusing to bring in Japanese and foreign companies in leading roles, including American companies with experience in nuclear cleanups from Three Mile Island.
很长一段时间以来，专家们一直担心政府在早期阶段犯了一个错误，即拒绝让其他日本企业和外国公司担任领导角色，包括拥有三里岛(Three-Miles Island)核污染清理经验的美国公司 。
Experts like Yamaguchi said the only way to increase transparency at the plant is to bring in true outsiders, either Japanese companies from other industries like waste management that could contribute to the cleanup, or U.S. and other foreign companies with expertise in decommissioning reactors.
像山口这样的专家说，只有让真正的外部人士进入核电厂才能提高它的透明度，无论这些外部参与者是来自其他行业（比如可能有助于清理污染的废物管理行业）的日本公司，还是专长于让核反应堆退出运行的美国和其他外国公司 。
“Without involving outsiders, there will be no way to know for sure what is really happening at Fukushima Daiichi,” Yamaguchi said.
山口荣一说：“不让外部人士进来，就无法真正知道福岛第一核电站的现况究竟如何。”