TOKYO — For a third time this year, Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, refused supporters’ calls to visit a controversial Tokyo war shrine on Thursday, sending a ceremonial offering instead in an apparent effort to avoid angering Asian neighbors including China.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)周四拒绝了支持者的请求，没有参拜在东京的争议性战争纪念神社，而只是礼节性地献上了一份祭品，这是安倍今年第三次拒绝参拜，此举显然是为了避免惹怒包括中国在内的亚洲邻国。
Since taking office in December, the hawkish Mr. Abe has been closely watched to see if he makes potentially provocative displays of Japanese nationalism that could isolate his nation and undermine his own efforts to restore Japan’s stature in a region increasingly dominated by China. Before becoming prime minister, Mr. Abe had vowed to visit the shrine, called Yasukuni, as a show of what many analysts call his deeply held belief that Japan was not the aggressor during World War II.
自从去年12月上台以来，鹰派的安倍晋三一直受到外界的密切关注，外界想要看到，他是否会展示出可能具有挑衅性的、民族主义的一面，这样的举动可能会使日本陷入孤立，同时破坏他恢复日本在该地区地位的努力。中国在该地区的主导地位正日益增强。在当选日本首相之前，安倍曾誓言将参拜这个称为靖国神社(Yasukuni)的地方，以证明他正如许多分析人士所说，深信日本并非二战中的侵略者。
However, as national leader, Mr. Abe has carefully avoided saying or doing anything that would inflame regional passions or allow China to cast him as a dangerous revisionist. Analysts say he may also be responding to pressure from the United States, which has warned Japan, its largest Asian ally, not to escalate an already tense standoff with China over control of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.
不过，在当选日本首相之后，安倍晋三一直小心地避免一些言论和行为，以防止激起该地区的愤怒，以及防止被中国指责成危险的修正主义者。分析人士说，安倍此举可能也是美国方面施压的结果，日本是美国在亚洲的最主要盟友。美国已经警告日本，在东海一系列无人居住小岛的控制权问题上，不要加剧与中国业已紧张的僵持关系。
Visits by Japanese leaders to the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors Japan’s war dead, including convicted war criminals, can stir strong emotions both here and elsewhere in Asia by touching upon sensitive issues of wartime history. Many Japanese conservatives say the visits should not be politicized because they are simply meant to honor the nation’s war dead, including the 3.1 million military personnel and civilians who perished in World War II.
靖国神社供奉的是战争中的日本死难者，包括已经被定罪的战犯。日本领导人参拜靖国神社可能会激起日本和亚洲其他地区的强烈反应，因为这触及了与战争历史有关的敏感问题。许多日本保守派人士说，参拜行为不应该被政治化，因为这只是为了纪念日本在战争中的死难者，包括在二战中死亡的310万军人和平民。
However, the shrine, part of Japan’s native Shinto religion, is also a rallying point for ultrarightists in part because of its museum, which portrays Japan as a well-intentioned liberator of Asia from Western colonizers that was unjustly branded as perpetrator by the postwar Tokyo war crimes trials. That in turn has led many in China and South Korea to view the shrine as a symbol of what they see as Japan’s lack of contrition for its 20th-century imperial conquest of much of Asia.
不过，靖国神社不光是日本本土宗教神道教的场所，也是极右势力的聚集点，部分原因是靖国神社的博物馆。该博物馆把日本描述为一个意在把亚洲从西方殖民者那里解放出来的正面角色，却在战后的东京战争罪审判中被不公正地贴上了罪犯的标签。在许多中国和韩国人看来，靖国神社就成了日本拒绝忏悔其在20世纪对大部分亚洲国家实施帝国主义侵略的证据。
Thursday’s start of an annual autumn festival was the third time that Mr. Abe had faced calls from his political base on the right wing of his governing Liberal Democratic Party to visit the shrine, following a spring festival in April and the 68th anniversary of the war’s end on Aug. 15. As he did on both earlier occasions, Mr. Abe instead sent a traditional offering signed in the name of the prime minister but paid out of his own pocket, in an apparent effort to appease his supporters without making too official a gesture or actually visiting.
在本周四开始的一年一度的秋季大祭，安倍第三次遇到了参拜靖国神社的呼吁，这些呼吁来自他领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)右翼忠实支持者，此前的两次分别发生在今年4月的春季大祭以及8月15日二战结束68周年纪念的时候。与前两次一样，安倍以首相的名义献上了一个传统的祭品，不过是自掏腰包，此举明显是为了在不需要做出过于官方的姿态或是参拜靖国神社的同时，讨好支持者。
The offering, called masakaki, is usually a decorated branch or potted sapling of the sakaki tree, a type of evergreen that is considered sacred in Shinto.
安倍献上的祭品叫做“真榊”(masakaki)，这通常是一根经过装饰的榊树枝，或是榊幼树的盆栽。榊是一种常绿乔木，在神道教中被奉为神树。
The Chinese Foreign Ministry condemned Mr. Abe’s actions Thursday. A ministry spokesman, Hua Chunying, urged Japan to “honestly reflect on its history of aggression.” He also said Japan’s leaders should “respect the feeling of Chinese people and other Asian victims.”
中国外交部周四谴责了安倍的行为。外交部发言人华春莹敦促日本“切实正视和认真反省侵略历史”。她还说，日本领导人应该“尊重中国等亚洲受害国人民的感情”。
After the previous two offerings by Mr. Abe, the Chinese government also criticized his actions, though with less vehemence than might have been expected if he had made a visit to the shrine.
在安倍之前的两次献祭之后，中国政府也谴责了他的行为，不过如果他真的参拜了靖国神社，预计批评的措辞会更加激烈。
A top Japanese government spokesman, Katsunobu Kato, the deputy chief cabinet secretary, told reporters Thursday it was “natural” to pay respects to those who died for their country, but he declined to comment on the offering.
日本政府高级发言人、内阁官房副长官加藤胜信(Katsunobu Kato)周四告诉记者，纪念为国家死去的人“理所应当”，但他拒绝对安倍献上祭品一事发表评论。