PARIS — Japan looked like the model for economic revival. Growth was back on track. The stock market was surging. Inflation, which had eluded Japan for decades, was even returning.
巴黎——日本此前仿佛成为了经济复苏的模范：经济增长重回正轨、股市飙升、几十年没有出现过的通货膨胀也再次出现。
But Japan’s grand economic experiment, a combination of fiscal discipline and monetary stimulus, is collapsing. On Monday, the country unexpectedly fell into recession, a downturn that has painful implications for the rest of the world.
但日本推行财政纪律、实施货币刺激政策的宏大经济实验即将失败。日本经济于周一出人意料地陷入衰退，会给世界各地带来不利影响。
Japan’s unorthodox strategy was supposed to offer a road map for other troubled economies, notably Europe. Fiscal belt-tightening and tax increases, while leaning on the central bank to pump money into the economy, was expected to help overcome a malaise.
日本反传统的策略本应为其他陷入困境的经济体提供路线图，尤其是欧洲。日本在依靠央行为经济注入资金的同时，实施财政紧缩和增税的政策，人们原本指望这些举措能帮助日本走出困境。
The formula, though, has failed to ignite a meaningful recovery in Japan — and has even added to its woes. Europe must now decide whether to follow Japan’s lead by injecting more money into the economy, as the region’s central bank considers a similarly aggressive bond-buying campaign known as quantitative easing. And the United States, which just ended its own six-year stimulus effort, doesn’t offer much of a cushion should other economies stumble further.
但这个方案没能促使日本经济出现有意义的复苏，反而加剧了该国的困境。欧洲现在必须决定是否跟随日本的步伐，向经济中注入更多货币，欧洲央行正在考虑开展同样激进的债券购买行动，即量化宽松。美国刚刚结束长达六年的刺激举措，如果其他经济体进一步衰退，美国也无法起到多少缓冲作用。
“The United States is about the only growth beacon in the global economy right now, and that is not a very nice place to be,” said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “An American growth pickup is positive, but it looks like the rest of the world is again going to be relying on the U.S. as a consumer of last resort.”
“美国差不多是目前全球经济中唯一的灯塔，这不是一个非常好的状况，”华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)经济学家雅各布·芬克·柯克加德(Jacob Funk Kirkegaard)说。“美国经济增长提速的情况很好，但世界其他地区似乎要再次依赖美国，把美国当做‘最后消费者’。”
Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, won power two years ago on a promise to pull the economy out of nearly two decades of corrosive wage and price declines. The initial response of both Japanese consumers and global investors was ebullient: The economy surged during the first few months of his administration in early 2013, and Japanese stock prices soared.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)两年前之所以当选，是因为他承诺会让日本经济完全摆脱过去近20年中，工资和物价下降的糟糕局面。日本消费者和全球投资者最初的反映都十分积极：安倍晋三2013年初上台后的头几个月里，日本经济增长强劲，股价飙升。
Mr. Abe’s program, called Abenomics, at first relied on a one-two punch of government spending and financial support from the Bank of Japan, the country’s central bank. The bank sharply increased its program of buying government bonds and other assets, similar to the stimulus effort recently ended by the United States Federal Reserve.
安倍晋三推行的“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)起初依靠的是一套组合拳，一方面增加政府开支，另一方面依靠央行日本银行(Bank of Japan)的金融支持。日本银行大幅扩大了购买政府债券和其他资产的计划，该计划与美联储(Federal Reserve)最近终止的刺激举措类似。
In some ways, Japan has been more aggressive than the United States. Its bond-buying program, which was expanded last month, is now bigger relative to the size of its economy than the Fed’s was at its peak.
日本的举措在某些方面比美国更激进。日本上个月扩大了债券购买计划，相对于日本的经济总量，该计划比美联储行动的金额最大时，规模还要大。
Much of the enthusiasm for Abenomics has evaporated, however. Some economists blame a lack of action by Mr. Abe’s government in areas beyond pump-priming stimulus, such as deregulation and trade.
但市场对安倍经济学的热情在很大程度上已经消散了。一些经济学家指责安倍政府，除了开闸放水的刺激行动之外，在其他领域缺乏行动，比如放松管制和推动贸易。
A turn toward tighter fiscal policy has taken the majority of the blame. Government data released on Monday showed that the country unexpectedly fell into recession in the third quarter, hampered by rising sales taxes that have discouraged consumers from spending. Mr. Abe is expected to shelve a second tax increase, lest the Japanese economy and consumer confidence erode further.
人们认为，主要问题在于不应该采用更严格的财政政策。周一发布的政府数据显示，三季度，日本经济意外出现衰退，这是因为消费税的增加抑制了消费者的消费意愿。安倍晋三将搁置第二轮增税计划，以免日本经济和消费者信心进一步下滑。
“What Japan shows is that if you have longstanding economic stagnation, having an aggressive monetary policy and even sizable fiscal reform is not going to work without deep-rooted structural reform,” Mr. Kirkegaard said. “The experience of Japan must be at the top of the minds of European leaders.”
“日本的情况表明，如果经济长期陷于停滞，除非进行深层次的结构改革，否则实施激进的货币政策，乃至规模可观的财政改革都起不到任何作用，”柯克加德说。“欧洲领导人必须铭记日本的经验。”
High on the agenda is whether Europe should pursue large-scale purchases of government bonds, so-called quantitative easing.
一项重要议题就是，欧洲是否应该大规模购买政府债券，即开展所谓的量化宽松。
The European Central Bank recently said it was prepared to take additional steps to revive the struggling economy, by lending more to banks and buying bonds backed by mortgages and other assets. Critics say the bank has not acted nearly aggressively enough to help revive growth, which has essentially stagnated.
欧洲央行(European Central Bank)最近表示，它准备采取其他举措来复兴陷入困境的经济，具体措施包括向银行体系发放更多贷款，并买进更多抵押贷款担保证券及其他资产。批评人士称，欧洲央行并未采取足够激进的措施来促进经济复苏，当前欧洲经济基本上已经趋于停滞。
The similarities between the two places is strong, which has prompted some economists to wonder whether Europe will turn into another Japan.
两地的情况非常相似，这促使一些经济学家开始追问，欧洲是否会变成另一个日本。
Europe and Japan have stuck with various versions of austerity, neither pushing ahead with deep-seated changes to their economy that analysts say are needed to revive long-term growth. Europe is also increasingly facing down the Japan-like specter of deflation as a recovery lags.
欧洲和日本都在实施各种各样的紧缩政策，二者都未对经济实施深层次的改革；分析人士称，这些改革对于经济恢复长期增长十分必要。由于经济复苏迟缓，欧洲也越来越多地面临着类似日本的通货紧缩。
The political debate is also developing along the same lines.
政治方面的争论也围绕着类似问题展开。
A number of countries, led by France and Italy, recently balked at European Union requirements to doggedly adhere to fiscal targets and eschew stimulus spending that some economists say is critical. Some economists say that Japan’s situation only adds to the argument that fiscal belt-tightening, while sometimes needed to mend a country’s finances, hurts growth when an economy is in decline.
最近，以法国和意大利为首的一些国家表示，不愿意遵守欧盟提出的严格遵循财政目标、避免刺激性开支的要求，尽管有些经济学家表示这样做十分重要。有些经济学家声称，日本的情况进一步证明了，在经济衰退时实行财政紧缩，会损害经济增长——尽管要改善国家的财政，有时需要这样做。