Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has honored a Chinese student for his “courageous act” in rescuing a Japanese boy from drowning, a bright spot in an otherwise tense period in diplomatic relations.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)向一名中国学生颁奖，以表彰他营救一名溺水的日本男孩的“勇敢行为”。在两国外交关系趋紧的时段，此事形成了一个亮点。
In September, the 26-year-old student from Shanghai, Yan Jun, was jogging in Osaka when he saw that a boy had fallen into the nearby Yodo River. An earlier typhoon had swollen the river to dangerous levels, and Mr. Yan was unable to bring the 9-year-old boy ashore in his first attempt. However, after running downstream and diving in again, he managed to rescue him, and both emerged with only light injuries.
今年9月，来自上海的26岁学生严俊在大阪市慢跑，看见一名男孩落入附近的淀川(Yodo River)。早前的一场台风使河水涨到了危险的水位，严俊的首次尝试没能把9岁的男孩带到岸边。他随即跑到下游，再次跳入水中，设法把男孩救了上来，两人都只受了轻伤。
To commend him for this act of bravery, Mr. Abe met with Mr. Yan at the Japanese prime minister’s residence Wednesday evening and presented him with a certificate as well as Japan’s Red Ribbon Medal of Honor.
为了褒奖他的勇敢行为，安倍晋三于周三晚在首相官邸接见了严俊，向他颁发了奖状和日本“红绶褒章”(Red Ribbon Medal of Honor)。
The certificate states that “The Emperor of Japan commends Yan Jun, of the People’s Republic of China, for rescuing another without regard to his own safety,” according to the China News Service.
根据中国新闻社的报道，奖状上写道，“日本天皇表彰中华人民共和国的严俊不顾个人危险救助他人。”
Mr. Yan, speaking after the ceremony with the Japanese paper Kansai Chinese Times, said that he had only done “what everyone in China would do.”
严俊在仪式后向日本报纸《关西华文时报》(Kansai Chinese Times)表示，他只是做了“每个中国人都会做的事”。
It was only the latest official award that Mr. Yan, a graduate of Fudan University who begins doctoral studies in Osaka next year, has received in the two months since the daring rescue. He has already been given letters of commendation from the mayor of Osaka and the Chinese ambassador to Japan.
自勇救他人的事迹发生以来，严俊在两个月里受到了官方的多次褒奖，上述褒奖只是最近的一次。严俊是复旦大学的毕业生，将从明年起在大阪攻读博士学位。大阪市长和中国驻日大使已经向他颁发了表彰信。
Mr. Yan’s act came as the two countries remain locked in a dispute over a group of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China. The conflict flared up again last year as China accused Japan of changing the status quo by purchasing some of the islands from their private Japanese owners.
严俊的义举发生之时，中日两国仍因一些无人居住的东海岛屿陷于僵局，日本称这些岛屿为尖阁诸岛，中国称之为钓鱼岛。去年，中国指责日本从日本私人所有者手中购买其中一些岛屿的行为改变了现状，两国再次爆发争论。
Since then, editorials in the Chinese state media have denounced Japan and Mr. Abe personally; bilateral trade has also suffered. A Japanese government spokesman said in October that a Chinese official had secretly visited Japan for informal talks aimed at improving relations, but Beijing has denied this.
从那时起，中国官方媒体的社论纷纷抨击日本及安倍晋三本人；双边贸易遭受打击。日本政府的一名发言人在今年10月表示，一名中国官员曾秘密到访日本，参加旨在改善关系的非正式会谈，但北京方面对此予以否认。
Mr. Yan’s heroism won praise from Chinese online.
严俊的英勇行为赢得了中国网民的赞扬。
One popular comment on the China News Service article said that “all ordinary citizens of China and Japan look forward to friendly relations.” Another commenter offered lukewarm praise for the Japanese government, saying that it was “not bad” of it to have offered the certificate.
中国新闻网的文章收到了一条广受赞同的评论，其中写道，“中国和日本的普通民众都期待友好的双边关系。”另一条评论对日本政府提出了不太热烈的表扬，称日本政府授予证书的行为“还可以”。
More than 30,000 comments were posted on the article before they were deleted Thursday afternoon. Most, disregarding politics, simply praised Mr. Yan for his action.
这篇文章收到了三万多条评论，但这些评论在周四下午遭到删除。其中大部分评论并未涉及政治，只是表扬严俊的英勇行为。