TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan unveiled a reshuffled cabinet on Wednesday that included five women, an apparent nod toward his promises to raise the status of women in the workplace. The appointments tie the record for the number of women in top political positions in Japan.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)周三宣布了一项内阁改组计划，其中涉及到五位女性，此举显然是示意自己在履行承诺，提升女性在职场的地位。通过此次任命，获得政界最高层职位的日本女性数量追平了历史记录。
Since taking office in December 2012, Mr. Abe has spoken of the need to revive Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, by more fully unleashing the potential of its huge pool of highly educated women, who have long been relegated to relatively low-ranking positions in the work force.
自2012年12月上台以来，安倍表示要让日本这个世界第三大经济体实现复兴，需要把受过高等教育的女性这个庞大群体的潜能充分释放出来，一直以来，女性在日本被限制在相对较低的职位上。
He has even adopted the name “womenomics” to describe his goal, a play on the term Abenomics, which is used for his plans to bring Japan back from years of economic malaise. But the prime minister has been criticized for having accomplished little of substance so far to help women beyond raising the issue of equal opportunity in a country where traditional gender roles remain deeply entrenched.
他甚至采用了“女性经济学”(womenomics)这样的名字来形容他的目标，这个词是从“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)变化而来，后者用来形容他的经济振兴计划，要让日本经济摆脱持续多年的动荡。但是有人批评首相在提出机会平等问题后，没有给女性带去什么实质性的帮助，在这个国家里，传统的性别定位仍然根深蒂固。
According to GovernanceMetrics International, a research company based in New York that monitors corporate behavior, women make up less than 1 percent of the board members in Japanese corporations, ranking the country at the bottom of advanced economies. By comparison, women make up 11.4 percent of corporate boards in the United States and 9 percent in Germany.
据从事企业行为监测的研究公司国际惯例评级机构(GovernanceMetrics International)称，在日本企业的董事会中，女性所占比例不足1%，在发达经济体中排名末位。相比之下，美国的企业董事会中女性占11.4%，德国占9%。
It is a similar story in politics. The United Nations says 8.1 percent of Japan’s national lawmakers are women, less than half of the 18.3 percent in the United States.
政治中的情况类似。联合国(United Nations)称日本国会议员中女性占8.1%，连美国的18.3%的一半都不到。
Women have made slow progress in Japan’s work force since the country passed its first gender equal-opportunity law in 1986, when many women were stuck in clerical jobs as so-called blossoms of the workplace, serving tea and greeting visitors.
自1986年日本通过第一项性别机会平等法律以来，女性在日本的劳动力中只取得了缓慢的进步，许多女员工被困在文书性质的职位上，成为所谓的工作场所的花朵，负责奉茶迎宾。
While more women are now given bigger chances early in their careers, they still report facing a host of barriers to advancement, including the expectation by companies that career-minded employees demonstrate loyalty by spending most of their waking hours at the office. That often forces women to face stark choices between pursuing careers and having children. As part of his vows to empower women, Mr. Abe has promised to create more day care centers.
虽然在职业生涯初期获得更多机会的女性在增多，但她们还是表示，要获得晋升得面对诸多障碍，包括公司会期待那些有事业心的雇员在除睡觉以外的大多数时间都待在办公室里，以此作为对企业效忠的表示。这意味着女性要被迫面对一个艰难的抉择，要事业还是要孩子。安倍的女性赋权承诺中就包括设立更多的日托托儿所。
In making the new cabinet appointments, the prime minister may have seen a political need to make a new gesture to female voters at a time when his popularity has been sliding. Polls show that public approval of his performance has fallen after a contentious decision to ease constitutional restrictions on the Japanese military, though his ratings still hover near a respectable 50 percent largely because of support for his economic policies.
眼下安倍的支持率正在下滑，此次内阁任命也许是出于政治需要，向女性选民做出的一种全新姿态。自从做出放宽对日本军队的宪法制约这项争议性决定之后，民调显示公众对他的表现认可度在下降，不过出于对其经济政策的支持，他的支持率仍然维持在将近50%的可观水平。
Cabinet reshuffles are common in Japan, with prime ministers using them to hand out posts to backers as a way of maintaining support. The new cabinet retained a conservative cast, and it includes people loyal to his nationalistic agenda of making Japan a more assertive player in regional security.
内阁改组在日本很平常，首相通过这种方式向他的支持者分发官位，争取他们的继续支持。新内阁仍然由保守派人士构成，他们会忠于安倍的民族主义议程，要让日本在地区安全中扮演更强势的角色。
The new cabinet is the first since 2001, when Junichiro Koizumi, Mr. Abe’s political mentor, was prime minister, to have five of its 18 minister-level posts filled by women. Mr. Abe’s previous cabinet, which was dissolved earlier on Wednesday, had two women.
上一次任命了五位女性大臣的内阁改组是在2001年，当时的首相是安倍政治生涯的领路人小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)，其内阁设置了18个大臣级别的席位。于周三解散的前安倍内阁有两名女性。
Mr. Abe on Wednesday repeated his pledges to increase the number of women in leadership positions, saying he wanted the women in his new cabinet to “conjure a fresh wind of change by bringing women’s perspectives.” The official group photograph of the new cabinet, taken at the prime minister’s residence, showed Mr. Abe standing in the center in a black tailcoat, surrounded by the five women in colorful dresses and kimonos.
安倍在周三重申了让更多女性任领导职位的承诺，说他希望新内阁中的女阁僚“能带来女性视角，从而刮起一股清新的改革之风”。新内阁的正式合影在首相官邸拍摄，照片中身着黑色燕尾服的安倍站在中央，两侧是五位身穿鲜艳裙装与和服的女性。