BEIJING — Striking an upbeat note, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said Tuesday that he believed his country and China had taken a major step forward in repairing relations, and that from now on there should be frequent dialogue between them.
北京——周二，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)乐观地表示，他相信日本和中国为修复关系，已经迈出了重大的一步，从现在开始双方应该会有频繁的对话。
Mr. Abe, speaking in public for the first time since he met on Monday with China’s president, Xi Jinping, said that for the sake of the Asia-Pacific region, the onus was on both countries to work toward a “mutually beneficial” relationship based on strategic interests.
这是安倍晋三在周一与中国国家主席习近平会面后，首次公开发言。他说，为了亚太地区的利益，两国有责任为建立一种基于战略利益的“互惠关系”而共同努力。
“Japan and China, we need each other,” Mr. Abe told a news conference here at the close of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting, attended by leaders of 21 countries. “We are, in a way, inseparably bound together.”
“日本和中国彼此需要，”安倍晋三在亚太经济合作组织（Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation，简称APEC）峰会闭幕之时表示。“在某种意义上，我们联系在一起不可分割。”在北京举行的APEC峰会有21个国家和地区的领导人出席。
After the meeting between Mr. Abe and Mr. Xi, which was intended to defuse tensions that had threatened to set off conflict and had inflamed nationalist sentiments in two of Asia’s wealthiest countries, the nations put different spins on the outcome.
安倍晋三与习近平的会晤意在缓和紧张局势，这种紧张有触发冲突的风险，而且在亚洲最富有的两个国家煽动起了民族主义情绪。但会晤之后，两国对会谈的成果做出了不同的阐释。
Mr. Abe, in his search for the positive, said there should be “dialogue again and again.”
安倍晋三努力做出积极表述，称应当“频繁地开展对话”。
In contrast, the Chinese news media, while showing a more moderate attitude toward the territorial dispute that erupted more than two years ago over islands in the East China Sea, continued assigning blame.
与之相对比，尽管中国媒体与两年前相比，对围绕东海岛屿爆发的领土争端，表达了较为温和的态度，但是仍在追究责任。
Pointing the finger at Japan, the state-run news agency Xinhua quoted Mr. Xi as saying, “Severe difficulties have emerged in Sino-Japanese relations in recent years, and the rights and wrongs behind them are crystal clear.”
官方通讯社新华社在指责日本时，引述习近平的话说，“这两年，中日关系出现严重困难的是非曲直是清楚的。”
Mr. Abe said he had requested that Mr. Xi push forward plans for a hotline connecting the two countries to help prevent their vessels in the East China Sea from getting dangerously close to one another.
安倍晋三说，他请求习近平推动在两国之间设立热线的计划，从而避免两国船只在东海发生距离过近，造成危险的情况。
The crisis over the islands, known as the Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan, began in September 2012 when the Japanese government purchased them from a private owner.
中国把争议岛屿称为钓鱼岛，日本则将之称为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)。围绕岛屿产生的危机，始于2012年9月，日本政府决定从私人所有者手中购买岛屿的举动。
The Chinese, who claim the islands were wrongfully taken from them by Japan at the end of the 19th century, sent squadrons of paramilitary vessels into the waters around the islands, and Japanese Coast Guard boats fended them off in what became a cat-and-mouse game.
之后中国向争议岛屿附近派遣了大量准军事舰艇，而日本海上保安厅的舰艇则试图抵挡，两国舰只仿佛是在玩猫捉老鼠的游戏。中方称，争议岛屿是在19世纪末被日本以不当手段侵占的。
In the past several months, the tensions on the seas have moderated as quiet talks on developing the hotline began.
过去几个月里，随着建立热线的幕后会谈的进行，海上的紧张局势趋于和缓。
At his news conference, Mr. Abe said that he had held a “tête-à-tête” with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia during the forum, and that they had discussed concluding a Japanese-Russian peace treaty in time for the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II in 2015.
在新闻发布会上，安倍晋三表示，他在论坛期间与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(President Vladimir V. Putin)举行了“面对面”的会晤，双方讨论的话题是，在2015年第二次世界大战结束70周年之前，缔结日俄和平条约。