In his first cabinet meeting since his party’s sweeping election victory over the weekend, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday warned his ministers against triumphalism, instructing them instead to take speedy action to strengthen the recovering economy.
所在政党在周末选举中大获全胜之后，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在周二的选举后第一次内阁会议中警告阁员们不要被胜利冲昏头脑，指示他们应当迅速采取行动来加强经济复苏。
As cameras flashed, Mr. Abe told his ministers that time was of the essence. Despite the size of Sunday’s victory in upper house elections, he said the public could quickly turn against his Liberal Democratic Party if it failed to deliver on its campaign promises to spread the benefits of the turnaround to more of the population.
在相机闪光灯纷纷闪亮之时，安倍晋三告诉阁员，时间非常宝贵。尽管他的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)在周日的上议院选举中大获全胜，他说，假如这个党无法兑现让经济好转的利益惠及大多数人口的选举承诺，公众还是有可能很快转向反对立场。
“If we get lazy about holding dialogue with the people, or return to being the old Liberal Democrats who shunned reform, then we will immediately lose the trust of the people,” said Mr. Abe, whose party governed Japan for a half-century before being ousted four years ago.
“如果我们懒于与民众进行对话，或是重新变成逃避改革的老自民党人，我们就将立刻失去民众的信任，”安倍晋三说。他的党派曾统治日本半个世纪之久，直到4年前才下台。
While the appeals for urgency may have been partly for the benefit of television cameras, they also appear to reflect the extent to which Mr. Abe and his party now see themselves as under pressure. Having regained dominance in both chambers of Parliament, Mr. Abe must now prove that he can deliver on deeper reforms that could breathe new life into Japan’s $5 trillion economy.
尽管这些呼吁的部分目的可能是在电视摄像机前作秀，看样子也反映了安倍晋三及其政党对自己所受压力的认识程度。在重新主导国会参众两院之后，安倍晋三现在必须证明他能够实现更深层次的改革，能够为日本5万亿美元的经济注入新的活力。
Mr. Abe had some early successes stimulating Japan’s economy through new monetary stimulus and currency depreciation, and was rewarded at the polls. But analysts warn that the Liberal Democrats have a narrow window in which to show more lasting progress before voters could lose confidence.
安倍晋三通过新的货币刺激和贬值政策取得了刺激日本经济的初步成功，这让他赢得了投票。但分析人士警告称，自民党的机遇期不会长久，如果不能尽快展示更具持续性的进展，选民们就可能失去信心。
The public’s patience with prime ministers is limited, and none of the past six, including Mr. Abe in an earlier turn, held the job for more than 15 months.
公众对首相的耐心是有限的，过去的6任首相的任期都不超过15个月，包括安倍晋三本人的上一个任期。
With the next election not legally required to be held for three more years, a loss of public support is not likely to be enough to drive the Liberal Democrats from power. However, analysts said, it could weaken Mr. Abe in other ways, including by making it difficult for the hawkish prime minister to realize some of his noneconomic goals, like his long-expressed desire to revise Japan’s pacifist Constitution to allow a full-fledged military instead of its current defense forces.
鉴于法律并不要求在接下来的3年内进行下一次选举，失去公众支持似乎不足以让自民党下台。然而，分析人士表示，这可能会在其他方面削弱安倍晋三，包括让这位鹰派总理难以实现他的一些非经济目标，例如他早已表露的那个愿望，亦即修改日本的和平宪法，以便允许日本拥有完整规模的军队，而不仅是当前的自卫队。
By law, changing the Constitution would require approval by a majority of voters in a referendum.
根据日本法律，修改宪法需要在全民公决中得到大多数选民同意。
“Abe gets it,” said Gerald L. Curtis, a specialist on Japanese politics at Columbia University. “He knows the success of Abenomics is the key to the success of everything else he wants to do.”
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)日本政治问题专家杰拉尔德·L·柯蒂斯(Gerald L. Curtis)说，“安倍心里很明白。他知道，他要想做成任何别的事情，都有赖于安倍经济学的成功。”
According to analysts, Mr. Abe’s most pressing task will be building on the early successes of what has been called a three-arrowed economic program, which have prompted a rally in the stock market.
分析人士称，安倍晋三最紧迫的任务是在所谓的三箭齐发经济政策初步成功的基础上继续发展经济。该政策已经推动了股市重振。
The first two arrows of radical easing by the central bank and increased government spending gave the anemic economy a quick shot in the arm, mainly by driving down the yen, which benefited electronics companies and other exporters by making their products less expensive abroad.
头两支箭是日本央行的激进宽松政策及政府支出的增长，主要通过压低日元币值，迅速刺激了萎靡不振的日本经济。日元贬值使得出口产品在国外价格降低，电子公司及其他出口商因此受益。
All eyes now are on whether Mr. Abe can follow up with a third arrow of structural changes that can make the current tentative recovery more sustained. Those consist mainly of deregulating protected markets and freeing up competition to allow the creation of new industries and growth. One hope is that this will spread the benefits of his plan more broadly by driving up wages, reversing years of declines.
现在所有人都在看，安倍晋三是否能够继续射出结构变革的第三支箭，使得当前的试探性增长变得更具可持续性。这些变革主要包括放松对受保护市场的监管，放开竞争，允许新产业和新增长的创生。希望之一是这会使工资上涨，推广安倍晋三计划的益处，扭转多年的经济衰退。
One problem is that Mr. Abe has remained vague on what that third arrow might look like, and he has revealed few additional details since the election. On Monday, he promised tax incentives to encourage companies to increase investment in new factories and machinery, in hopes of persuading manufacturers to stay in Japan instead of relocating to lower-wage countries. He also promised to institute a national growth strategy during a session of Parliament to start in October.
问题之一是，安倍晋三并未清楚表示第三支箭是什么样子，竞选以来也没有透露什么额外细节。周一，他承诺出台税收激励措施，以激励公司在新的工厂及机器上增加投资，目的是借此说服制造商留在日本，而非搬迁到低工资国家。他还承诺在将于10月召开的议会会议期间制定一个全国增长战略。
“What the people want,” said Mr. Abe, 58, “is an economy whose strength can be felt in all corners of the nation.”
58岁的安倍晋三说，“人们希望看到的是一个力量遍及全国每个角落的经济体。”
While expectations are high among financial investors and economists that Mr. Abe may soon unveil additional market-opening moves, some analysts say it is not clear how much more he will actually offer.
金融投资者及经济学家的期望很高，认为安倍晋三很快就会宣布额外的市场开放举措，尽管如此，一些分析人士称，尚不清楚他会有多少实际举措。
Unlike his mentor, former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who won over voters in the early 2000s with his mantra of small government and deregulation, Mr. Abe has yet to express a clear economic philosophy. Nor does he have the same charisma as Mr. Koizumi, who was able to inspire optimism simply by being able to connect emotionally with voters, analysts say.
21世纪头10年初期，安倍晋三的导师小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)曾以其小政府及放松管制的理念赢得选民。分析人士称，与小泉纯一郎不同，安倍晋三还没有表达出清晰的经济哲学。此外，他也没有小泉纯一郎的个人魅力，后者仅仅通过与选民建立情感联系就能激发乐观情绪。
“Prime Minister Abe is not the performer or communicator that Koizumi was,” said Takeshi Sasaki, a professor emeritus in political science at the University of Tokyo. “I don’t know if he really has it in him to inspire the nation like that.”
东京大学(University of Tokyo)政治学荣休教授佐佐木毅(Takeshi Sasaki)说，“安倍首相不是小泉纯一郎那样的表演者或沟通者。我真不知道，他到底有没有那种激励一个国家的本领。”