TSURU, Japan — As the world’s fastest train raced through the mountains of central Japan, former Gov. George E. Pataki of New York hoisted his 6-foot-5 frame into the aisle, lifted his hands from his seat and marveled at the smoothness of the ride.
日本都留——全世界最快的列车在日本中部穿山越岭时，身高6英尺5英寸（约合2米）的纽约州前州长乔治·E·帕塔基(George E. Pataki)起身站到过道里，抬起原本放在座位上的双手，对列车的平稳行驶感叹不已。
“In the subway I’d need a strap, at least,” Mr. Pataki said as the speedometer hit 314 miles per hour and fleeting glimpses of Mount Fuji appeared through the porthole-like windows. “This is amazing. The future.”
“在地铁里，我至少需要拉着吊环，”帕塔基说，“太了不起了，这就是未来。”此时，列车时速表的指针指向了314英里（约合505公里），圆形车窗外，富士山的景色一闪而过。
Mr. Pataki and a group of other retired American politicians and public figures were in Japan on Saturday for a special test ride of the train, which uses a technology called magnetic levitation, or maglev, to cruise at more than twice the 150 m.p.h. top speed of Amtrak’s Acela, the fastest train in the United States. They are trying to bring the technology to the United States, to speed up travel times and ease congestion in the crowded northeast corridor between New York and Washington.
帕塔基和一群卸任的美国政界人士和公众人物周六现身日本，是为了对这种列车进行一次特殊的试乘。该列车使用了一种名为磁悬浮的技术，行驶速度是美国最快的列车——即美铁(Amtrak)阿西乐(Acela)列车——的最高时速150英里的两倍多。他们正在尝试把这项技术引入美国，减少通过纽约和华盛顿之间那条繁忙的东北走廊的行程时间，并缓解那里的交通拥堵。
And to sweeten the deal, the Japanese have offered to foot the bill for part of the construction — an amount that could reach billions.
为了促成交易，日方表示愿意承担部分建设费用，这笔费用可能高达数十亿美元。
Since Japan opened the first bullet train line in 1964, it has been a pioneer in high-speed rail. Next year, as the bullet train, or Shinkansen, celebrates a half century in service, Japan plans to begin full-scale construction of its first intercity maglev line, linking Tokyo with Nagoya and, eventually, Osaka.
自1964年开通首条动车线路以来，日本已经成了高速铁路领域的先锋。明年，日本高铁，即新干线(Shinkansen)将对运行半个世纪进行庆祝。该国也计划开始全面建设首条城际磁悬浮线路，连接起东京和名古屋，并最终延伸至大阪。
Now that China has built a nearly 6,000-mile high-speed rail system that surpasses the Shinkansen in scale and rivals it in speed, the maglev line would be a way for Japan to reassert its technological leadership.
现在，中国已建成了里程近6000英里的高速铁路体系，在规模上超过了新干线，并在速度上与之不相上下，因而这条磁悬浮铁路将是日本再次展现自己技术领先地位的方式。
So would a prominent showcase overseas. That is where Mr. Pataki and the other dignitaries riding the train Saturday, including former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, former Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania and former Transportation Secretary Mary Peters, enter the picture.
一个海外的模范项目也有同样的功效，这正是帕塔基和其他显要人物周六登上这趟列车的原因。在场者还包括前参议院多数党领袖汤姆·达施勒(Tom Daschle)、宾夕法尼亚州前州长爱德华·G·伦德尔(Edward G. Rendell)和前运输部部长玛丽·彼得斯(Mary Peters)。
Along with former Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, who could not make the trip, they are members of the advisory board of the Northeast Maglev, a privately held, Washington-based company that wants to build a line from Washington to New York using the Japanese technology.
包括未能参加此次日本之行的新泽西州前州长克里斯蒂娜·托德·惠特曼(Christine Todd Whitman)在内，这些人都是东北磁悬浮(Northeast Maglev)公司顾问委员会成员。总部位于华盛顿的这家私营公司希望利用日本的这项技术，修建一条从华盛顿到纽约的线路。
Trains would cover the 230-mile distance in one hour, compared with 2 hours and 45 minutes for the Acela. Additional stations would be included at Newark Liberty International Airport; Philadelphia; Philadelphia International Airport; Wilmington, Del.; Baltimore; and Baltimore Washington International Airport.
届时，列车将用1小时通过这段230英里的路程，而阿西乐通过这段距离的时间为2小时45分钟。新增站点将包括纽瓦克自由国际机场(Newark Liberty International Airport)、费城(Philadelphia)、费城国际机场(Philadelphia International Airport)、特拉华州威明顿、巴尔的摩和巴尔的摩华盛顿国际机场(Baltimore Washington International Airport)。
Promoters of the plan say the faster travel time would increase the productivity of workers in the Northeast, as well as relieve pressure on crowded airports and crumbling highways.
这一计划的倡导者称，减少行程时间会提高东北地区员工的生产效率，还会缓解拥挤的机场和几近崩溃的高速公路的压力。
Yet in the American Northeast, maglev trains are only the latest in a series of proposals to upgrade service linking Washington, New York and, in some cases, Boston. Few of these plans have left the station.
然而，在美国东北部，已有一些提议，旨在升级连接华盛顿和纽约的线路，有的计划还包括波士顿，磁悬浮列车计划只是最近的一项。但这些计划鲜有落实的希望。
At a time when governments are wrestling with growing debts, expensive railway projects are a tough sell. A planned high-speed railway in California faces delays over financing and wrangling over the route. Protesters in Britain are battling their government’s plan to build a high-speed line north from London.
在政府正在竭力应对不断攀升的债务之际，成本昂贵的铁路项目很难获得认可。加州一条计划中的高速铁路的融资多次延期，其路线也引发了争论。在英国，抗议者正在就从伦敦北上的高速铁路的计划同政府作斗争。
And when it comes to maglev, a technology that so far has been used only in short test stretches and novelties like a German-built line linking Shanghai Pudong International Airport to Shanghai’s central business district, there may be an element of disbelief.
而且，民众也许还不能完全信任磁悬浮技术，因为截至目前，这项技术只用在较短的试验路段和追求新奇的项目中，比如那条由德国修建，连接上海浦东国际机场和上海中央商务区的线路。
“Americans think levitation only occurs in horror movies,” Mr. Rendell said.
“美国人觉得悬浮只会发生在恐怖片里。”伦德尔说。
In fact, in the Japanese maglev, levitation occurs at about 90 m.p.h. That is when the wheels, shod with rubber tires like those of a jetliner, lift off the concrete guideway. Unlike conventional high-speed trains, whose steel wheels run on specially designed tracks, the maglev train actually floats 4 inches above the U-shaped guideway, held aloft and propelled forward by superconducting magnets.
实际上，在日本的磁悬浮技术中，时速90英里便可以发生悬浮——像飞机轮子那样包有橡胶轮胎的车轮升空离开水泥导轨。传统高速列车的钢轮要在特殊设计的轨道上运行，与之不同的是，磁悬浮列车实际上是悬浮在U型导轨上空4英寸的地方，在超导磁铁的作用下一直保持悬浮状态并向前运行。
To build the proposed American line, Japan has come up with a method of financing that is similarly novel. In a meeting with President Obama last winter, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe offered to provide the maglev guideway and propulsion system at no cost for the first portion of the line, linking Washington and Baltimore.
为了建造提议中的美国线路，日本提出的融资方案同样新奇。过去的这个冬天，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)与奥巴马总统会晤时主动提出，为连接华盛顿与巴尔的摩的一期工程免费提供磁悬浮导轨及推进系统。
“We are going to share this technology with the United States because the United States is our indispensable ally,” said Yoshiyuki Kasai, chairman of the Central Japan Railway Company, which runs the maglev test track and is building the Tokyo-Osaka line.
“我们准备与美国共享这项技术，因为美国是我们不可或缺的盟友，”东海旅客铁道株式会社（Central Japan Railway Company，坚称JR东海）的会长葛西敬之(Yoshiyuki Kasai)说。该公司管理着磁悬浮的测试线，并准备打造东京到大阪的线路。
Officials have not placed a dollar figure on the value of the aid but say it would cover close to half of the overall cost of construction. Based on the estimated cost of the maglev line from Tokyo to Osaka, which is more than $300 million per mile, that means the Japanese financing could be worth about $5 billion.
官员们尚未给这项援助贴上价签，只是表示，将会接近总造价的一半。根据东京到大阪的磁悬浮线路的成本估算，也就是每英里3亿多美元（约合每公里逾11.4亿元人民币），这意味着，日本提供的资金可能约为50亿美元。
The company behind the effort, the Northeast Maglev, wants to raise the rest of the money from private investors and public sources. It was founded in 2010 but only recently began ramping up its lobbying in Washington, with Mr. Daschle, now a policy adviser to the law firm DLA Piper, serving as a key figure in those efforts.
推动这项努力的东北磁悬浮公司希望，从私人投资者和公共资源中筹措剩余资金。公司成立于2010年，不过最近才开始加强在华盛顿的游说活动。如今在欧华律师事务所(DLA Piper)担任政策顾问的达施勒是这些活动中的关键人物。
Mr. Abe is eager to develop new markets for maglev because Japan has had relatively little success in exporting bullet trains. Taiwan bought Shinkansen technology and China acquired some Shinkansen trains early in the development of its high-speed lines, but other countries, from South Korea to Saudi Arabia, have chosen European systems instead.
安倍晋三之所以急于为磁悬浮开拓新市场，是因为日本在出口子弹头列车上不怎么成功。台湾购买了新干线技术，中国大陆也在高铁发展的初期购入了一些新干线列车。可是，包括韩国和沙特阿拉伯在内的其他一些国家，都转而选择了欧洲的系统。
“It is truly a dream technology,” Mr. Abe said in a speech at the New York Stock Exchange in September.
“这的确是一项梦幻技术。”安倍晋三今年9月在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)发表演讲时称。
But Japan is largely alone in developing it. Support for a maglev system in Germany, called Transrapid, dwindled after a fatal crash on a test track in 2006.
然而，在开发这项技术上，日本基本上是形单影只。名为Transrapid的德国磁悬浮系统2006年在测试线路上撞车，导致多人死亡。自那之后，德国对磁悬浮的支持就逐渐消退了。
Even in Japan, the planned Tokyo-Osaka maglev line faces considerable skepticism.
就算是在日本，规划中的东京到大阪磁悬浮铁路也面临着相当大的质疑。
One reason is the cost, which is as breathtaking as the speed: nearly $100 billion.
其中一个原因是与其速度同样令人咋舌的成本：近1000亿美元。
Another is geography. While the Shinkansen that travels the Tokyo-Nagoya-Osaka route stays mostly along the coast, through flat, heavily populated areas, the maglev line would run through some of the most mountainous terrain in the country, including the Japanese Alps.
另一个问题是地理上的。新干线的东京–名古屋–大阪线路大多沿着海岸走，穿越的是平坦的人口聚居区，而磁悬浮铁路将穿越日本最为崎岖的一些地带，其中包括日本阿尔卑斯山脉。
About 86 percent of the route is set to run through tunnels, creating monumental engineering challenges, lifting costs and raising concerns about the effects of seismic activity in one of the most earthquake-prone regions on Earth.
设计中，大约86%的线路要穿山越岭，从而构成巨大的工程障碍，抬高了成本，并引发人们对地震活动的担心，因为这里是地球上地震最活跃的地区之一。
For these and other reasons, the Tokyo-Nagoya portion is not expected to be completed until 2027, with the Nagoya-Osaka stretch to follow only in 2045.
因为这样那样的原因，东京–名古屋段预计要到2027年完工，而名古屋–大阪延伸段更是要等到2045年。
Central Japan Railway insists that the project will create new demand by decreasing journey times, taking away business from airlines and serving new destinations en route. The company, which was set up when Japan privatized its national rail system in 1987, says it will finance construction through operating cash flow, including the profit generated by its Shinkansen line.
JR东海坚称，这一项目将会创造出新的需求，因为它会缩短旅行时间，从航空公司那里接过生意，并将服务于沿途的新站点。1987年，日本将该国的铁路系统私有化，JR东海由此成立。公司表示，将通过运营现金流来为工程融资，其中包括从新干线获得的利润。
Still, a lot is riding on whether Japan can persuade the United States to build a maglev line in the northeast corridor.
因此，日本是否能说服美国在东北走廊造一条磁悬浮铁路关乎巨大利益。
“In the past, the United States led the way in transport technology,” said Mr. Kasai, the Central Japan Railway chairman, in an interview at the control center of the maglev test track in Tsuru. “Now the U.S. transportation infrastructure is in bad shape. This time, why don’t the U.S.A. and Japan lead the world together?”
“过去，美国在交通技术上领先，”JR东海的会长葛西敬之在都留的磁悬浮测试线控制中心接受采访称，“现在，美国的交通基础设施境况不佳。这一次，美国和日本为什么不携手引领世界呢？”