For the poor, the homeless, people down on their luck in the central province of Anhui, Zhang Yidong has often been there to help. He has made a career of raising money and public interest to help the downtrodden.
在中国中部的安徽省，穷人、无家可归者和时运不济的人常常得到张艺冬的帮助。筹措资金和吸引公众关注来帮助底层人群，已经成为了张艺冬的事业。
He has also made something of a name for himself in the process, so much so that Chinese media outlets call him a “public welfare celebrity.” He is often compared to Lei Feng, the young People’s Liberation Army soldier trumpeted as a Communist Party icon for his unstinting devotion to his comrades.
在这个过程中，他也博得不少名气，以至于中国媒体称他为“公益明星”。他经常被比作雷锋。雷锋是一名年轻的解放军战士，政府就他对战友的无私奉献进行宣传，把他塑造为共产党偶像。
Mr. Zhang says he considers Lei Feng, the so-called rustless screw of Mao’s revolution, to be a role model. And now he has taken his emulation to the next step. This week he began a series of cosmetic procedures as part of an effort to look like Lei Feng.
张艺冬说，他把雷锋当成一个榜样；雷锋被称为是毛泽东革命事业中永不生锈的螺丝钉。现在，他已经在这种模仿的道路上更进一步。本周，他开始进行一系列整容手术，目的是为了看上去更像雷锋。
“No matter how open or developed China becomes, we can’t forget the Lei Feng spirit,” Mr. Zhang said in an interview. “Through this activity I want to tell even more people that to study Lei Feng, we can’t just engage in slogans.”
“不管中国有多开放，多发达，我们都不能忘记雷锋精神。”张艺冬在接受采访时说，“我想通过这个行为告诉更多的人，学习雷锋不能只是喊口号。”
Mr. Zhang says that by changing his appearance he hopes to raise public awareness of Lei Feng, whose fame saw a mild resurgence two years ago thanks to a vigorous propaganda push tied to the 50th anniversary of his death.
张艺冬说，他想通过改变自己的外形，增进公众对雷锋的意识。两年前，雷锋去世50周年之际，一场高调的宣传活动让雷锋的名气获得了小幅回升。
Lei Feng, who died at the age of 22 in 1962 when he was hit by a falling telephone pole, is known in China as a symbol of selflessness and devotion to the cause of communism. He sewed quilts and darned socks for his fellow soldiers, assiduously studied Mao’s writings at night by flashlight and collected weighty loads of cow dung for fertilizer.
1962年，22岁的雷锋被倒落的电线杆砸中而过世，政府将他树立为大公无私和献身于共产主义事业的象征。他为战友们缝被子、补袜子，并且在夜间用手电筒刻苦学习毛泽东著作，还收集了大量牛粪当肥料。
Those exploits and most of his biography itself have come under close scrutiny in recent years by scholars and average Chinese alike who point to the suspect signs of propaganda: well-lit photos of a supposedly average soldier, a detailed diary full of expressions of loyalty and an all-too-well-honed image.
近几年，一些学者和普通中国人对这种做法和雷锋的大多数传记本身进行了严格审视，他们认为雷锋事迹有政治宣传的嫌疑：一个所谓的普通士兵，他的照片打光技巧良好，日记内容详实，里面充斥着表达忠诚的词句，他的形象也打造得太过精心。
Like Lei Feng, Mr. Zhang has at times found his record under question. Last year he participated in an event with Chen Guangbiao, a recycling tycoon and philanthropist known for brazen acts of self-publicity. Mr. Chen wanted to award 800,000 renminbi, about $130,000, to Mr. Zhang to help carry out his charitable work. Mr. Zhang declined, and online many people suggested the exchange was merely a ruse to help boost both men’s profiles.
和雷锋一样，张艺冬有时也会遭到质疑。去年，他参加了陈光标举办的一个活动。陈光标是回收业大亨和慈善人士，以厚颜大胆的自我宣传而闻名。陈光标想奖励张艺冬80万人民币，帮助他开展慈善事业，张艺冬拒绝了。网上有不少人说这件事只是在作秀，目的是提升两个人的形象。
Mr. Zhang says he welcomes the scrutiny, and argues that serving the public interest requires a certain amount of bombast.
张艺冬说，他欢迎大家监督，他还表示为公众利益服务需要一定程度的高调。
“I think criticism is good,” he said. “It shows people are paying attention.”
“我觉得批评是好事，”他说，“表明人们在关注这件事。”
Mr. Zhang’s makeover, which is being provided free of cost by a hospital in the city of Hefei, began on Thursday with a series of injections of the dermal filler Restylane. The goal of the process is one that many who visit a plastic surgeon can identify with.
张艺冬的整容手术是合肥市一家医院免费提供的，从周四开始，首先进行一系列真皮填充玻尿酸注射。很多见过整形外科医生的人都会认可这种手段的目的。
“It involves some skin rejuvenation and microsurgery to help my face look like Lei Feng’s,” said Mr. Zhang, who at 32 is 10 years older than his hero at the time of his death. “Lei Feng, he was very young.”
“这包括嫩肤和微整形，让我的脸看起来像雷锋。”张艺冬说，他现在32岁，比雷锋去世的时候大10岁。“雷锋当年很年轻。”