TOKYO — At Tsukamoto Kindergarten, an ultraconservative school at the center of a swirling Japanese political scandal, children receive the sort of education their prewar great-grandparents might have recognized.
东京——塚本幼稚园(Tsukamoto Kindergarten)正处在日本一场沸沸扬扬的政治丑闻的中心。在这所极端保守的学校里，孩子们接受着他们战前的曾祖父母也许都能认出来的那种教育。
They march in crisp rows to military music. They recite instructions for patriotic behavior laid down by a 19th-century emperor. The intent, the school says, is to “nurture patriotism and pride” in the children of Japan, “the purest nation in the world.”
他们整齐划一地随着军乐行进，还要背诵19世纪的一位天皇制定的爱国行为指南。校方表示，这么做的目的是为了在“全世界最纯正的国家”——日本的孩子心中“培养爱国精神和自豪感”。
Now Tsukamoto and its traditionalist supporters — including the wife of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe — are under fire. The school has been accused of promoting bigotry against Koreans and of receiving illicit financial favors from the government.
现在，塚本幼稚园和它的传统主义支持者——包括日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的妻子——受到攻击。该校被指宣扬对韩国的偏见，并在资金上接受政府的不当照顾。
A growing outcry has put Mr. Abe’s conservative administration on the defensive and drawn attention to the darker side of an increasingly influential right-wing education movement in Japan.
越来越强烈的抗议使安倍领导的保守派政府处于防守阵势，并引起了外界对日本影响力越来越大的右翼教育运动的阴暗面的关注。
Mr. Abe said on Friday in Parliament that his wife, Akie Abe, had resigned as “honorary principal” of a new elementary school being built by Tsukamoto’s owner.
安倍晋三周五在国会称，他妻子安倍昭恵(Akie Abe)已辞去塚本幼稚园的所有者正在修建的一所新小学的“名誉校长”职务。
The school sits on land that the owner, a private foundation, bought from the government at a steep discount — a favorable deal that invited charges of special treatment after details surfaced this month.
塚本幼稚园的所有者是一家私人基金会。新学校所在的那块地，是该基金会以极大的折扣从政府手里购得。本月，在相关细节浮出水面后，这项优惠交易引发了特殊待遇的指控。
“My wife and I are not involved at all in the school’s licensing or land acquisition,” Mr. Abe told the legislature. “If we were, I would resign as a politician.”
“我和我妻子完全没有参与那所学校的执照申领和拿地，”安倍晋三对议会说。“如果我们参与了，我会退出政界。”
Mr. Abe and other Japanese conservatives often accuse the education system of liberal bias, seeing it as a place where left-wing teachers spread “masochistic” narratives about Japanese war guilt and promote individualism and pacifism over sturdier traditional values.
安倍晋三和日本其他保守派常常指责该国的教育制度存在自由主义偏见，认为它是左翼老师传播有关日本战争罪责的“受虐狂”叙事，并宣传个人主义与和平主义，而非更坚定的传统价值观的地方。
Tsukamoto is at the extreme edge of an effort by rightists to push back, said Manabu Sato, a professor who studies education at Gakushuin University in Tokyo.
东京学习院大学(Gakushuin University)研究教育问题的教授佐藤学(Manabu Sato)说，塚本处在右翼进行的一场反击行动的最边缘。
“It’s a rejection of the postwar education system, whose basic principles are pacifism and democracy,” Professor Sato said.
“它是对以和平主义和民主为基本原则的战后教育制度的否定，”佐藤学教授说。
At Tsukamoto, displays of old-style patriotism have sometimes shaded into prejudice.
在塚本幼稚园，有时候，旧式爱国主义的表现渐渐变成了偏见。
The school apologized on its website last week for statements that contained “expressions that could invite misunderstanding from foreigners.”
上周，该校在其网站上就含有“可能会引起外国人误解的表述”的声明表示道歉。
Parents said complaints about mundane-seeming matters like parent-teacher association fees would be met with chauvinistic diatribes, with school officials accusing “Koreans with evil ideas” of stirring up trouble. They said the school’s principal, Yasunori Kagoike, accused parents who challenged the school of having Korean ancestors.
家长称，抱怨家长老师协会会费等看似普通的事务会招致沙文主义抨击。学校领导指责“心怀邪恶念头的韩国人”挑起事端。他们说，塚本幼稚园的校长龙池泰典(Yasunori Kagoike)斥责质疑学校的家长祖先是韩国人。
“The problem,” Mr. Kagoike said in one notice sent to parents, was that people who had “inherited the spirit” of foreigners “exist in our country with the looks of Japanese people.”
龙池泰典在寄给家长的一份公告中说，“问题在于”，“我国存在一些有着日本人的样貌”，却“继承了外国人的精神”的人。
Mr. Abe has made overhauling Japanese education a priority throughout his career, championing a similar if softer version of the traditionalism practiced at Tsukamoto.
在整个职业生涯中，安倍晋三把改革教育制度作为首要任务，支持一种即便比塚本幼稚园的更温和，但仍类似的传统主义。
In early publicity pamphlets for its new elementary school obtained by the Japanese news media, Mr. Kagoike proposed naming it after Mr. Abe. Mr. Kagoike later opted for a different name, a change that the prime minister said had been made at his request.
在日本新闻媒体获得的那所新小学的早期宣传手册中，龙池泰典提议用安倍晋三的名字为学校命名。后来，他选了另一个名字。安倍晋三称，这一改变是在他的要求下做出的。
Mr. Abe has supported a drive to amend history textbooks, toning down depictions of Japan’s abuses in its onetime Asian empire, and he passed legislation to make “moral education” — including the promotion of patriotism — a standard part of the public school curriculum.
安倍晋三支持一场修改历史教科书的运动，淡化有关日本在它以前的亚洲帝国所犯暴行的叙述。他还通过立法，让包括宣扬爱国主义在内的“道德教育”，成为公立学校课程的标准组成部分。
Tsukamoto has taken the patriotic approach to schooling further.
塚本幼稚园让学校教育中的爱国方式更进了一步。
It first gained notoriety a few years ago for having pupils recite the Imperial Rescript on Education, a royal decree issued in 1890 that served as the basis for Japan’s militaristic prewar school curriculum and that was repudiated after World War II.
几年前，该校首次因让小学生背诵《教育敕语》(Imperial Rescript on Education)而一举成名。《教育敕语》是日本天皇在1890年颁布的一份文件，是战前日本军国主义学校课程的基础，二战后遭废除。
Conservatives see the rescript as a paean to traditional values; liberals as a throwback to a more authoritarian era. It encourages students to love their families, to “extend benevolence to all” and to “pursue learning and cultivate arts” — but also to be “good and faithful subjects” of the emperor and to “offer yourselves courageously to the state” when called upon to do so.
保守派视该文件为歌颂传统价值观的赞歌，自由派则认为它回到了更专制的时代。《教育敕语》鼓励学生爱家人，“博爱及众”并“修学习业”，但也要做天皇的“臣民，克忠克孝”，并在被召唤时“义勇奉公”。
In interviews, five mothers who pulled their children out of Tsukamoto said they had encountered chauvinism at the school or had been attacked by Mr. Kagoike or his wife, who serves as vice principal, often in ethnically bigoted terms. They asked for anonymity because they feared social ostracism for speaking out.
在采访中，五位让孩子从塚本幼稚园退学的母亲说，她们在学校受到沙文主义对待，或是被龙池泰典或者其担任副校长的妻子的攻击，而且往往是带民族偏见的语言。因为害怕自己的大胆发声会招致社会排斥，她们要求匿名。
One mother said her family liked South Korea and often vacationed there, but that when her son told his teacher of a planned trip, the teacher said that Korea was a “dirty place” and that the family should visit “somewhere better in Japan.”
一位母亲说，她的家人喜欢韩国，并且经常去韩国度假，但当她儿子对老师说起一次定好的旅行时，那名老师说韩国是一个“肮脏的地方”，并称他们家应该去“日本国内更好的地方”。
Another mother said teachers had told her that her son “smelled like a dog,” and that Mr. Kagoike had called her “an anti-Japanese foreigner.” (She is Japanese.)
另一位母亲称，老师对她说她儿子“闻起来像条狗”，还说龙池泰典说她是“一个反日外国人”（她其实是日本人）。
Attempts to reach Mr. Kagoike failed. A woman who answered the telephone at the foundation that operates Tsukamoto, Moritomo Gakuen, said the Japanese news reports about the school and its land deal had been “unfair,” but she did not elaborate. Multiple follow-up calls went unanswered.
记者多次试图联系龙池泰典，但均以失败告终。致电塚本幼稚园的运营方、前述基金会森友学园(Moritomo Gakuen)时，接听电话的女子称日本有关该校及其土地交易的新闻报道“有失公正”，但她没有细说。之后多次致电，均无人接听。
The land deal that turned Tsukamoto from a subject of raised liberal eyebrows into a full-fledged scandal took place last year, though the details took months to emerge.
该土地交易让塚本幼稚园从自由派不满的对象，变成了一场实实在在的丑闻。交易发生在去年，不过相关细节过了几个月才浮现出来。
The Finance Ministry allowed Moritomo Gakuen to have the land — a two-acre vacant lot near an airport in an Osaka suburb — for 134 million yen, or about $1.18 million, according to government records and testimony by ministry officials in Parliament.
政府记录和财务省官员在国会的证词显示，日本财务省允许森友学园以1.34亿日元（约合820万元人民币）的价格，买下了那块地。那是一块面积为两英亩的空地，位于大阪郊区的一座机场附近。
The price, which the ministry initially kept sealed, was surprisingly low. The ministry had previously assessed the land’s value at 956 million yen, seven times higher. In comparison, a neighboring plot only slightly larger was bought by the local municipality, Toyonaka City, for 1.4 billion yen in 2010.
起初，财务省对这个低得出奇的价格保密。财务省以前对那块地的评估价格是9.56亿日元，是后来售价的七倍。相比之下，当地丰中市2010年买下面积仅略大一点的相邻地块的价格是14亿日元。
The ministry says it lowered the price to account for cleanup costs that Moritomo Gakuen would have had to bear. It said the lot contained discarded concrete and other refuse as well as elevated levels of arsenic and lead.
财务省说，它降低了价格，来弥补森田学园将不得不承担的清理费用。它说这个地块里有废弃的混凝土和其他垃圾，以及高水平的砷和铅。
Opposition politicians are pressing the ministry to explain its calculations. The national daily Asahi Shimbun, which broke the story, quoted Mr. Kagoike as saying Moritomo Gakuen had spent “about 100 million yen” on cleanup, a fraction of the discount it received.
政治反对派正在给财务省施加压力，要求他们解释计算方式。爆出这件事的全国性日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)引用了龙池泰典先生话，说森田学园花了“大约1亿日元”的清理费用，远远少于它获得的折扣。
The new elementary school now sits partially built on the lot.
现在这座新小学部分于这个地块上部分建成。