TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan visited a contentious Tokyo war shrine early on Thursday, provoking swift condemnation from China and South Korea, both victims of Japan’s wartime aggression.
东京——周四上午，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)参拜了颇具争议性的一座东京战争神社，激起了中国和韩国的迅速谴责。两国均是日本侵略战争的受害者。
Wearing formal attire and followed by news media helicopters who streamed his visit live on television, Mr. Abe led a group of government officials into the Yasukuni Shrine in central Tokyo to pay his respects. The television cameras were not allowed into the inner shrine.
安倍晋三身着正装，带领一群政府官员进入东京市中心的靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)表达敬意，身后跟着电视直播此行的新闻媒体直升机。摄像机未能获准进入神社内殿。
Mr. Abe’s visit to the shrine, which honors Japan’s war dead, including Class A war criminals from the World War II era, was the first by a sitting Japanese prime minister since Junichiro Koizumi paid his respects there in 2006.
该神社纪念的是日本战争亡灵，供奉有二战时期的甲级战犯。 在2006年的小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)之后，这是首次有在任首相前往参拜。
Among those honored by the shrine, of Japan’s native Shinto religion, are several who were executed as war criminals after World War II. Past visits by Japanese politicians have angered China and South Korea, both of which suffered greatly under Japan’s empire-building efforts in the early 20th century.
靖国神社是日本本土宗教神道教的神社，受供奉者中包括二战后遭处决的数名战犯。日本政坛人士过往的参拜激怒了中国和韩国。两国均曾在20世纪初饱受日本帝国的扩张之苦。
Japanese prime ministers had stayed away from the shrine in recent years as the country sought to improve relations with China and South Korea.
随着日本寻求改善与中韩的关系，该国首相近年来并未进行参拜。
Mr. Abe himself did not visit the shrine during his first stint as prime minister from 2006 to 2007, but he has since expressed regret for that.
安倍晋三本人在2006年到2007年首次担任首相期间没有前往参拜，不过他后来表达了遗憾之情。
Speaking to reporters after his brief visit, Mr. Abe expressed frustration that the shrine still provoked such controversy. He said that he had paid his respects not just to those who gave their lives serving Japan, but to fallen soldiers around the world.
此次短暂参拜后，安倍晋三接受了记者采访，对神社仍能激起如此剧烈的争议表达了不解。他自称表达敬意的对象不光是为日本奉献生命的人，还有全世界的战争亡灵。
He added that it was normal for any national leader to honor the war dead, and that he had prayed for peace.
他表示，任何国家的领导人拜祭亡灵都是正常之举，而且他还为和平进行了祈福。
“Japan must never wage war again,” Mr. Abe said. “This is my conviction based on severe remorse for the past. It is not my intention at all to hurt the feelings of the Chinese and Korean people.”
“我做出了不战宣誓，”安倍晋三说，“这是我的信念，而它基于我对过往历史的悔恨，丝毫没有伤害中韩两国人民感情的想法”。
But his visit came at a tense time. Japan is already involved in a standoff with China over control of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea and over a new air defense identification zone announced by China that includes airspace over the disputed islands. It is also embroiled in a dispute with South Korea over separate islets.
然而，此行发生在时局紧张之时。围绕着东海的无人岛屿的控制权，以及中国近期宣布的涵盖争议岛屿空域的新防空识别区，日本本已与中国形成对峙之势。此外，围绕着另外一些小岛，日本还卷入了与韩国的争端。
Mr. Abe has been particularly scrutinized because he is known for his conservative views on Japanese history, and what his supporters describe as a personal desire to revise an overly negative portrayal of Japan’s actions during the war. He has questioned some accounts of Japan’s wartime conduct, including whether the military forced women across Asia into sexual servitude.
安倍晋三一直受到了外界尤为严格的审视，因为他对日本历史的保守看法广为人知，而且他的支持者称，他个人渴望扭转对日本战争中行为的过于负面的描绘。他曾质疑对日本战时行为的某些记载，包括日军是否迫使过亚洲各地的女性成为性奴。
He has also sought to bolster Japan’s military standing, increasing the country’s military spending for the first time in a decade and adopting a new defense plan that calls for the purchase of drones and amphibious assault vehicles to counter China’s own rapid military buildup in the region. Mr. Abe has long said that Japan must ultimately revise its pacifist Constitution to allow for a fully developed military instead of a purely defensive force.
他还寻求巩固日本的军事地位，10年来首次增加了该国的军事预算，并施行了新的防卫计划。该计划呼吁采购无人机与两栖突击车，以制衡中国在该地区的快速军事扩张。安倍晋三长期主张，日本必须最终重修其和平宪法，以容许全面发展军力，来代替纯防御性部队。
Local news reports have said that some of his closest aides advised Mr. Abe to stay away from the shrine, so he could focus on what has been the defining policy of his administration so far, reviving Japan’s economy. American officials had also expressed concern that historical issues may isolate Japan, the United States’ largest Asian ally, at a time when Washington faces a more assertive China and a nuclear North Korea.
当地新闻报道已表示，安倍晋三最亲近的一些幕僚建议他回避靖国神社，这样他就能把精力集中在其政府目前最为关键的政策上，即振兴日本经济。美国官员也表示，他们担忧，就在美方面对一个更加强势的中国和拥有核力量的朝鲜之际，历史问题可能会孤立身为美国最大亚洲盟国的日本。
Still, since he took office exactly a year ago, Mr. Abe has sent offerings to the shrine, while several members of his cabinet paid visits. Some of his supporters had said it was just a matter of time before the prime minister himself paid a visit, especially as hopes for improved relations with either China or South Korea appeared slim anyway. Though Mr. Abe had never visited the shrine as prime minister before Thursday, he was a regular visitor as a lawmaker of the Liberal Democratic Party and most recently as opposition leader last year.
尽管如此，恰在一年前上台的安倍晋三，在这段时间里已经给靖国神社奉上过祭品，几名内阁成员也进行了参拜。他的一些支持者曾表示，首相本人参拜神社，只是一个时间问题而已，在中日或韩日关系得以改善的希望本就看似渺茫的时刻尤其如此。尽管周四之前，安倍晋三从未以首相身份参拜过靖国神社，然而，他在担任自民党议员期间一直是这里的常客，担任首相之前的最近一次参拜是在去年。当时，他是反对党的党首。
China’s reaction to Mr. Abe’s visiting the shrine was swift.
中方对安倍晋三参拜神社一事的回应相当迅速。
“The Chinese government expresses its strong indignation that Japanese leaders brutally trample the feelings of the Chinese and other Asian peoples victimized in wars,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “We solemnly urged the Japanese side to abide by the commitment to reflecting on its history of aggression, taking measures to correct its errors, eliminating its adverse effects, and taking concrete actions to win over the trusts of its Asian neighbors and the international community.”
中国外交部发言人在一则声明中表示，“中国政府对日本领导人粗暴践踏中国和其他亚洲战争受害国人民感情……表示强烈愤慨。我们严正敦促日方信守反省侵略历史的承诺，采取措施纠正错误，消除恶劣影响，以实际行动取信于亚洲邻国和国际社会。”
Luo Zhaohui, director of the Foreign Ministry’s Asian affairs department, wrote on the Chinese microblogging site Weibo: “This is absolutely unacceptable to the Chinese people. It will cause great harm to the feelings of the Asian peoples and create a new, major political obstacle on bilateral relationships. Japan must bear the consequences.”
外交部亚洲司司长罗照辉在中国的新浪微博上写道：“这是中国人绝对不能接受的，这对亚洲人民感情造成了极大伤害，给双边关系造成新的重大政治障碍。日本必须要承担由此引起的后果。”
The South Korean news agency Yonhap quoted unnamed government officials in South Korea who rebuked Mr. Abe, calling his visit to the shrine an act that “sought to justify Japan’s war of aggression” and that would damage bilateral relations.
韩国通讯社韩联社(Yonhap)的报道援引了不具名的韩国政府官员的话。后者指责了安倍晋三，称他参拜靖国神社的举动“是在替日本的侵略战争做辩护”，此举会伤害双边关系。
Yang Soon-im, who runs the Association for the Pacific War Victims, based in Seoul, South Korea, said: “This shows how arrogant Abe is toward the neighboring countries, how unrepentant Japan is about its past war crimes. Abe is almost as reckless as the regime in North Korea.”
位于韩国首尔的太平洋战争牺牲者遗族会(Association for the Pacific War Victims)会长梁顺任(Yang Soon-im)说，“这显示了安倍晋三对邻国的态度有多傲慢，以及日本对过去的战争罪行毫无悔意。安倍晋三几乎和朝鲜政权一样胆大妄为。”
The United States also criticized Mr. Abe’s visit.
美国也批评了安倍晋三的参拜行为。
“Japan is a valued ally and friend. Nevertheless, the United States is disappointed that Japan’s leadership has taken an action that will exacerbate tensions with Japan’s neighbors,” the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo said in a statement Thursday.
美国驻东京大使馆在周四发表的一则声明中说，“日本是美国重要的盟友和朋友。尽管如此，令美国感到失望的是，日本领导人采取了会激化与邻国紧张态势的行动。”
“The United States hopes that both Japan and its neighbors will find constructive ways to deal with sensitive issues from the past, to improve their relations and to promote cooperation in advancing our shared goals of regional peace and stability,” the statement read.
声明说，“美国希望日本及其邻国能寻找建设性的途径，来应对过去遗留的敏感问题，为我们促进区域和平稳定这个共同目标而改善与邻国的关系，推动与邻国的合作。”