Historians and columnists have made comparisons between Britain and a rising Germany in 1914 and the current tensions between Japan and China; a hot topic at the start of the centenary year of World War I.
历史学家和专栏作家比较了1914年英国和崛起德国之间的关系，以及目前中日之间的紧张态势；此事成了今年年初的热门话题，因为今年是一战爆发的百年纪念。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, in his appearance Wednesday at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, raised the bar when he agreed with the thesis, saying that he saw a “similar situation” between now and then.
周三，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)现身瑞士达沃斯世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)，对前述观点表示了赞同，称现在和当时“情况有些相似”，问题的复杂程度由此增加。
During a discussion with journalists, Mr. Abe said that the strong trade relations between Germany and Britain in 1914 were not unlike the economic interdependence today between Japan and China.
安倍晋三在与记者进行讨论的过程中说，德国与英国1914年的紧密贸易联系与日本和中国在经济上的相互依赖不无相似。
In 1914, economic self-interest failed to put a brake on the strategic rivalry that led to the outbreak of war, Mr. Abe said. He criticized the annual double-digit growth in China’s defense budget, calling it a source of instability in the Pacific region, an implicit comparison to Germany’s rapid build-up of arms before World War I.
安倍晋三说，1914年，经济利益未能阻止战略上的竞争，最终导致战争爆发。他对中国国防开支每年两位数的增长率表示了批评，称之为太平洋地区的不稳定因素，暗指这与德国在一战前快速扩充军备的行为类似。
Senior Chinese officials, who sometimes show up at Davos in a great phalanx, were not present at the conference this year – perhaps because Mr. Abe was a prominent guest.
中国高官往往会成群出现在达沃斯，今年却没有来此参会——或许是因为安倍晋三是这次会议的主宾之一。
So the first opportunity for a reply from China came on Thursday at the regular news briefing at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing.
所以，中国回应此事的首个机会就是周四在北京举行的外交部例行记者会。
The Ministry’s chief spokesman, Qin Gang, was well prepared, having plenty of practice with outrage since Mr. Abe visited the Yasukuni Shrine in December. Japanese war dead are honored at the shrine, including war criminals convicted after World War II.
中国外交部首席发言人秦刚准备得非常充分，自安倍晋三于12月参拜靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)以来，他已经有了大量表达愤怒的实践。靖国神社供奉着日本的战争亡灵，其中还包括二战后被定罪的战犯。
Mr. Qin began by suggesting that the comparison between Germany and China was unconvincing because Germany was a novice power in 1914, compared to China today.
秦刚一开始就表示，把德国与中国相比较的做法根本不可信，因为1914年的德国只是一股新兴力量，与今日的中国不同。
“Actually, China has long since been a great power in history,” Mr. Qin said. “By the Han and Tang dynasties, China was already a major global power. So there’s no such thing as the so-called problem that China is rising to become a world power.”
“其实中国在历史上早就是一个大国，”秦刚说，“汉唐时代中国就已经是一个世界大国。所以不存在所谓中国要崛起成为一个世界大国的问题。”
Mr. Qin was referring to the golden ages of ancient rulers when technological advances and cultural achievements put China ahead of the world.
秦刚指的是古代统治者统治下的盛世，当时，领先的技术和文化成就让中国走在了世界的前面。
From this perspective, China was just regaining lost ground, he said. “Right now, we are committed to the process of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.”
秦刚说，从这个角度来看，中国只是在收复失地。“我们现在致力的是实现中华民族的伟大复兴。”
Just as Mr. Abe in Davos said that Japan was committed to peace, so Mr. Qin said China was “resolutely sticking to the path of peaceful development.” But Mr. Abe also added that an “inadvertent” conflict – something that the United States worries could be provoked by a collision of ships in the East China Sea or by planes in the airspace over disputed islands there – would spell disaster.
正如安倍晋三在达沃斯称日本致力于和平一样，秦刚说中国将“坚持走和平发展的道路”。但是，安倍晋三曾补充说，“偶然”的冲突可能会带来灾难。美国方面也担心，如果船只在东海发生碰撞，或者飞机在东海有争议岛屿上空发生碰撞，就有可能引发这种冲突。
In the last several months, China has refused to consider overtures by Mr. Abe for a summit meeting with the Chinese leader, Xi Jinping.
过去几个月，中国一直拒绝考虑安倍晋三关于同中国领导人习近平举行峰会的示好提议。
Mr. Qin restated that position Thursday. “Japan’s leaders have closed the door on dialogue between the two leaders,” he said.
周四，秦刚重申了这一立场。“日本领导人以自己的行动关闭了中日领导人对话的大门，”秦刚说。
Then he recited the familiar litany of China’s version of 19th- and 20th-century history, saying of Japan: “Rather than using pre-World War I Anglo-German relations, why don’t you deeply examine your mistakes during the First Sino-Japanese War, the Japanese colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula and the fascist war that Japan launched on victim countries in World War II?”
随后，他又重述了人们耳熟能详的中国版19及20世纪历史，称日本“与其拿一战前英德关系说事儿，不如深刻地检讨甲午战争，检讨日本对朝鲜半岛的殖民统治，检讨日本二战对受害国人民发动的法西斯战争”。