London is on the rise.
伦敦正在迈向高楼时代。
Almost 250 buildings of 20 or more stories are being built or planned for the city and its suburbs in the next few years. About 150 of those structures are to be residential, including the Newfoundland tower in Canary Wharf that, at 58 stories, would become the second-tallest building in the city after the 72-story Shard.
在接下来的几年里，伦敦市区及郊区将新建或规划近250栋20层以上的高楼，其中约有150座是住宅楼，包括金丝雀码头(Canary Wharf)的纽芳德兰大厦(Newfoundland)。该大厦共58层，将仅次于72层的碎片(Shard)成为伦敦第二高的大楼。
The high-rises are hailed by some as the only solution to the city’s chronic housing shortage, and as the result of overseas investment that has flowed into the capital since the global downturn of 2008, most of it attached to high-rise projects.
有些人对这些高楼大厦表示欢迎。他们认为，建设高楼是解决伦敦旷日持久的住房短缺问题的唯一对策。这一风潮也是海外投资的结果，自2008年全球经济低迷以来，海外投资纷纷涌入英国的首都，其中大多数与高层建筑项目有关。
But others argue that the buildings will clog London’s skyline. And they say that its post-World War II practice of grouping towers on streetless sites, in a kind of residential version of an industrial park, produces a sterile environment and less housing than traditional terraced homes, a local term for townhouses.
但是其他人则宣称，高楼大厦将给伦敦的天际线造成拥堵。他们表示，二战后，许多高楼大厦集中到了没有街道的地方，形成了住宅版的工业园区。这一做法营造了缺乏活力的环境，由此创造的房源也没有传统的联排住宅（terraced home，即townhouse）多。
The long-running debate about the issue has intensified since the New London Architecture organization publicized the number of tower blocks earlier this year. And opposition has been encouraged by the Architects’ Journal and luminaries including the sculptor Antony Gormley, the author Alan Bennett, the Stirling Prize-winning architect Alison Brooks and two London mayoral hopefuls, Tessa Jowell and David Lammy, both Labour members of Parliament.
今年早些时候，新伦敦建筑(New London Architecture)组织公布了高层建筑的数量，进一步激化了人们关于这一问题持续已久的争论。为高楼大厦的反对者推波助澜的是《建筑师期刊》(Architects' Journal)及不少名人，其中包括：雕塑家安东尼·葛姆雷(Antony Gormley)，剧作家阿兰·班内特(Alan Bennett)，斯特林奖(Stirling Prize)得主、建筑师艾莉森·布鲁克斯(Alison Brooks)，以及两位有望成为伦敦市长的人——泰莎·乔威尔(Tessa Jowell)和戴维·拉米(David Lammy)，他们都是工党议员。
Prince Charles, a longtime advocate for alternatives to high-rises, joined the discussion about one North London development in July, saying the capital’s unique character as a “city of villages” was being threatened by “faceless” towers and “poorly conceived” developments.
查尔斯王子一向不支持建设高楼大厦，而倡导寻求替代方案，今年7月，他参与了人们关于伦敦北部一个开发项目的讨论。他表示，首都作为“村庄之城”的独特个性，正被“毫无特征的”高楼大厦和“构思拙劣的”开发项目破坏。
In an earlier report commissioned by his charity, the Foundation for Building Community, the prince called for fewer high-rises for the wealthy and more “human-scaled streets, squares and parks,” as well as new mansion blocks — the kind of six- to eight-story buildings constructed from 1880 to 1910 as high-density housing for the rich.
在他的慈善机构——建筑社区基金会(Foundation for Building Community)日前委托制作的一份报告中，查尔斯王子呼吁少建设一些面向富豪的高楼大厦，多建设一些“以人为尺度的街道、广场和公园”，以及新的大宅式公寓楼——也就是1880年到1910年建设的那种面向富人的、六到八层的高密度住宅楼。
But, for many in Britain, there really is no alternative to high-rises.
但是对很多英国人来说，除了建设高楼大厦以外，真的没有替代方案。
The Housing in London 2014 report, created by the Greater London Authority and the basis of Mayor Boris Johnson’s housing strategy, says the population is expected to pass its previous peak of 8.6 million in coming years and reach about 10 million by 2031. Yet only around 20,000 new homes, not including conversions or changes of use, are being built in the city each year.
大伦敦政府(Greater London Authority)根据市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)的住房战略，发布了《2014伦敦住房情况》(The Housing in London 2014)报告。报告表明，伦敦人口有望在接下来的几年里超过此前860万的峰值，到2031年，达到1000万左右。但是每年新建的住宅大约只有20000套，改建或改变用途的房屋不包括在内。
The combination, the report says, is a major contributing factor to rising home prices and rents. (The average sale price in London reached 480,900 pounds, or $807,051, in May, more than twice the £172,011 average in the rest of Britain, according to the June figures of the Office for National Statistics.)
报告指出，这两种现象交织起来，成为了推动房价和租金上涨的主要因素（根据国家统计局[Office for National Statistics]今年6月发布的数据，伦敦住房的平均售价今年5月达到了480900英镑，或807051美元[约合人民币476.2万元]，比英国其它地方172011英镑[约合人民币170.3万元]的平均价格水平高出两倍以上）。
This spring Mr. Johnson described as “madness” the opposition to a development plan in North London that was said to have too many tall blocks, arguing the towers are needed to house the city’s rapidly growing population. His predecessor, Ken Livingstone, also advocated a rising skyline to meet demand for homes and offices.
今年春季，约翰逊指出，一些人以高楼太多为由对伦敦北部的一个开发项目提出反对，这是“疯狂”的行为。他表示，建设高楼大厦是必需的，这是为了安置伦敦日益增长的人口。前任市长肯·利文斯通(Ken Livingstone)也主张，应该升高天际线，以满足人们对住宅和办公室的需求。
Nevertheless, says an independent research institute, Create Streets, the solution is not to go high but to stay low, building terraced houses.
然而，独立研究机构Create Streets表示，真正的解决方案并不是新建高楼，而是继续建造低矮的联排房屋。
Nicholas Boys Smith, director of Create Streets, has said: “By initiating a major redevelopment program across London’s multistory estates, we could build many of the homes we need between now and 2020. By using streets, we could create 260,000 new homes on land previously used for industrial or other commercial uses.”
Create Streets的负责人尼古拉斯·波伊斯·史密斯(Nicholas Boys Smith)曾经表示：“我们可以对伦敦各地的楼房开展大规模的再开发项目，进而把目前到2020年所需的住房都建设出来。我们可以利用街道，在原本用作工业或商业用途的地皮上建造260000套新住宅。”
To prove its point, the organization compared the Aylesbury estate, a large post-World War II development in South London, and Pimlico, a well-established area in central London of streets lined with tall Victorian and Georgian terrace houses. (Aylesbury is to be rebuilt over the next 18 years, but in a similar housing estate-style layout.)
为了证明这一观点，该组织将艾尔斯伯里住宅区(Aylesbury estate)与皮米里科(Pimlico)进行了对比。艾尔斯伯里是二战后伦敦南部的一个大型开发项目；皮米里科则是伦敦市中心的一个有名的地区，街道两边都是高大的维多利亚和乔治风格的联排房屋（艾尔斯伯里将在接下来18年里得以重建，但会采用类似的住宅式格局）。
The organization said that Aylesbury’s 2,759 units on 59 acres do not compare well with the 4,140 residences it counted in an area of the same size in Pimlico.
该组织表示，艾尔斯伯里占地59英亩（约合23.8公顷）的面积上，有2759个住宅单元，这跟面积相同的皮米里科所含的4140套住房相比，差得很远。
Create Streets also insists that it is considerably more expensive to build high than low, saying a 10-story building is 10 percent more expensive per square meter than a five-story one, while the cost of an apartment in a 50-story building is 60 percent more expensive than the same space in a terraced home.
Create Streets还坚称，建设高楼的成本比建设矮楼要高很多，十层的楼房与五层的楼房相比，每平方米的价格高10%；50层楼房里的公寓比联排住宅里同样大小的公寓则要贵60%。
The anti-high-rise argument also reflects some Londoners’ increasing concerns about absentee foreign ownership. “Many projects are aimed at foreign buyers who want to live high,” said Peter Rees, professor of places and city planning at University College London and the former planning officer for the City of London. “Many of them buy off-plan and gamble that the price will rise so that they can sell on again. They never live in them. The buildings are like safe deposit boxes piled up in heaps.”
反高楼的争论也反映出，部分伦敦人对外国人买房不住的现象越来越担忧。“许多项目的目标客户都是想住高楼的外国买家，”伦敦大学学院(University College London)地方与城市规划教授、伦敦市前规划师皮特·里斯(Peter Rees)表示，“他们购买期房，寄希望于房价上涨，好把房子转手卖出去。他们买了房从来不住。这些楼盘就好像堆积如山的保险箱。”
From an international perspective, Yolande Barnes, director of Savills World Research, noted in the real estate agency’s recent “12 Cities” study that “what is important is the urban fabric.”
房地产机构第一太平戴维斯(Savills)最近发布了题为《十二大都市》(12 Cities)的研究报告，在报告中，第一太平戴维斯全球研究部(Savills World Research)的负责人约兰德·巴尔内斯(Yolande Barnes)说，从国际视角来看，“真正重要的是都市的结构。”
“The most prosperous cities have stayed with grids of traditional streets. Surprisingly, it doesn’t matter to people whether the buildings are high or medium as long as there are streets,” she said. “Even the canyons of Manhattan are on a human scale — they are walkable, relatable and sociable at street level. The fact that there a few score stories above doesn’t matter because human beings are roughly the same height and we tend not to raise our eyes above the level of shop fronts.”
“最繁华的城市都保留了传统的街道网络。令人惊讶的是，只要有街道，人们不在乎建筑物是高是矮。”她说，“就连曼哈顿高楼之间的‘峡谷’也是以人为尺度的——在大街上，邻里之间可以步行通达，人们可以互相往来、参与交际。就算头顶上有几十层楼也没关系，因为人的身高是差不多的，而且我们一般不会抬头去看店面以上的楼层。”
While many developers move forward with tower plans, some have a variety of housing styles in their projects.
虽然许多开发商正在推进高层建筑项目，有些开发商也在他们的项目中涵盖了多种房型。
At the 500-acre Olympic Park, where the London 2012 Summer Games were held, more than 10,000 homes are scheduled to be created by 2030 in a mix of high-rise apartments — at least four of which will be 24 to 36 stories — and family homes in five “village” developments.
在占地500英亩（约合202.3公顷）的奥林匹克公园(Olympic Park)，也就是2012年伦敦夏季奥运会的举办地，开发商拟在2030年前建设超过10000套住宅，其中既有高层公寓楼——至少有四栋楼盘是24到36层的高楼，也有隶属于五个“村庄”开发项目的家庭住宅。