TOKYO — Japan’s prime minister sent a ceremonial offering to a Tokyo war shrine on Monday, a move that may anger South Korea and China just two days before President Obama is to arrive in Tokyo.
东京——日本首相周一把一个礼仪性供品送到一座东京战争神社，此举可能会在奥巴马总统(President Obama)即将抵达东京的两天之前，激怒韩国和中国。
The prime minister, Shinzo Abe, sent a traditional offering of a small potted tree to celebrate an annual spring festival at the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors Japan’s war dead, including convicted war criminals from World War II. Japanese officials sought to play down the significance of the gesture, saying that Mr. Abe has made such offerings in the past. Local news media portrayed it as a signal that Mr. Abe would not visit the shrine, something that would draw far more outrage from Japan’s neighbors.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)把一棵盆栽小树作为供品送到靖国神社，以庆祝一个每年春季的节日，靖国神社供奉着日本的战争死者，其中包括被定罪的第二次世界大战战犯。日本官方试图淡化安倍晋三的这一举动，称他过去送过这类供品。当地媒体把其做法描述为一个信号，表示安倍晋三将不会参拜神社，参拜会让日本的邻国更为愤怒。
However, the gift touched on a sore point in the nationalistic Abe government’s relations not only with South Korea and China, but also with the United States. A visit by Mr. Abe to the shrine in December drew rare public criticism from Washington, which fears that a clumsy handling of emotional historical issues could isolate Japan at a time when China is challenging American dominance in the region.
然而，这一供品不仅在安倍的民族主义政府与韩国和中国的关系上触及了痛处，也在其与美国关系上引起不快。去年12月安倍晋三参拜靖国神社一事，曾引起华盛顿罕见地对其公开批评，因为华盛顿担心，对感情性历史问题处理不当，会在中国正不断挑战美国在该区域的主导地位时，让日本陷于孤立。
One focus of Mr. Obama’s trip to Asia, which begins in Tokyo on Wednesday, will be encouraging increased cooperation between Japan and South Korea, Washington’s two closest allies in the region. Japan and South Korea had grown estranged over differing views of Japan’s early 20th-century empire-building, and statements by Mr. Abe’s political allies that try to portray Japan’s wartime behavior in a more positive light.
奥巴马的亚洲之行将于周三在东京开始，此行的一个重点是鼓励日本与韩国增进合作，这两个国家是美国在东亚最亲密的盟国。日本和韩国的关系变得有些疏远，由于两国对20世纪初日本打造帝国的历史有不同的观点，也由于安倍晋三的政治盟友的一些言论，这些人试图把日本二战期间的行为描述得更为正面。
Last month, Mr. Obama presided over the first meeting between Mr. Abe and the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, which was billed as a step toward improving relations between the two neighbors. Further progress could prove difficult for the Obama administration if Monday’s gift to the shrine draws a strong reaction from South Korea, which sees Yasukuni as a symbol of Japan’s lack of contrition for its brutal colonization of the Korean Peninsula.
上月，在奥巴马的主持下，安倍晋三和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)首次见了面，会面被标榜为改善这两个邻国之间关系的一步。推动下一步的进展对奥巴马政府来说可能会很困难，如果安倍晋三周一向靖国神社送的供品引起韩国强烈反应的话，韩国把靖国神社视为日本曾残暴地对朝鲜半岛进行殖民缺乏悔悟的一个象征。
While conservatives like Mr. Abe see the shrine of Japan’s native Shinto religion as a legitimate site for paying their respects, Yasukuni is viewed differently overseas, largely because of its war museum, which offers a revisionist view of the war as a Japanese-led struggle against Western colonialism.
虽然安倍晋三等保守派人士把这个日本本土宗教神道教的神社作为合理的参拜场所，但海外对靖国神社有不同的看法，主要是由于这座神社的一个战争博物馆，用一种修正主义的观点看待二战，认为那是一场日本领导的反对西方殖民主义的战争。