IWAKUNI, Japan — With his once-vaunted plan for reviving Japan’s economy now faltering, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe declared on Tuesday that he would dissolve Parliament and hold national elections next month, saying he wants a new mandate from voters.
日本岩国——随着自己曾经高远的重振日本经济的计划陷入困境，日本首相安倍晋三在周二宣布，他将解散国会，提前在下月举行全国大选，以得到来自选民的一个新授权。
In a broadcast on live national television, Mr. Abe explained the move by saying he wanted to ask voters to approve his decision to postpone a scheduled increase in the national sales tax, which he warned could further hurt growth. But he also framed it as a broader referendum on his economic measures, known as Abenomics.
在全国直播的电视讲话中，安倍解释了为什么要采取这种做法，他说，他想让选民批准自己推迟提升一个全国性销售税的决定，他警告说，提升消费税可能会进一步损害经济的增长。但他也把提前选举解释为就自己的经济措施进行的一次更广泛的全民公投，这些措施被统称为“安倍经济学”。
“There are divided opinions about the economic policies that we are pursuing. There is also resistance,” Mr. Abe said. “To continue advancing that growth strategy with the support of the people, we need to listen to the voice of people.”
安倍晋三说，“对我们正在采取的经济政策有意见分歧，也有阻力。要继续在人民群众的支持下推动这一经济增长战略，我们需要倾听人民的声音。”
Political analysts said the decision to call an election was an admission by Mr. Abe that his widely watched economic program, intended to pull Japan out of its two-decade slump, was losing steam. That program, a mix of increased government spending and an aggressive pumping of cash into the economy by the central bank, lifted the stock market and won praise as a potential model for other developed economies. In Washington last year, Mr. Abe proudly proclaimed that Japan was back on solid footing.
政治分析人士说，做出提前大选的决定，等于安倍承认了自己广受关注的经济计划正在失去动力。该计划旨在把日本经济拉出二十年的低迷，措施主要包括增加政府开支，再加上央行声势浩大地向经济注入现金，计划取得了让股票市场飘升的结果，赢得了可能成为其他发达经济体榜样的赞誉。安倍去年在华盛顿曾自豪地宣称，日本经济恢复了坚实的基础。
Now it appears he may have spoken too soon. Economists say growth in the Japanese economy, the world’s third-largest, after the United States and China, has faltered because of a failure to follow up with painful changes and because of the ill-timed increase in the national sales tax. The final blow came on Monday, when official figures showed that Japan had fallen into recession in the third quarter.
现在看来，他的话可能说得太早了。经济学家表示，日本经济的增长不能持续，因为未能进行痛苦的改革，而且提升全国性销售税的时机不合适。日本是世界上第三大经济体，仅次于美国和中国。最后的打击出现在周一：官方数据显示，日本在第三季度陷入经济衰退。
Those figures, and growing criticism from opposition parties saying that his policies were failing, prompted him to call an election, Mr. Abe said.
安倍晋三说，这些经济数据，加上在野党越来越多地批评其政策正在失败，促使他宣布提前举行大选。
“There is criticism that Abenomics is a failure,” Mr. Abe said. “So what should we do? Unfortunately, I have yet to hear one concrete idea.”
“有人批评安倍经济学失败了，”安倍晋三说。“那我们该怎样办呢？遗憾的是，我还没有听到一个具体的建议。”
Calling elections could also be a bid to renew support for a government that has suffered from a growing number of financing and other scandals. While he has been able to overcome major political damage so far, the problems are similar to those that Mr. Abe faced during his first term as prime minister. Seven years ago, those scandals eventually toppled his government.
宣布举行大选也可能是希望重新赢得公众表示对政府的支持，本届政府正在受到越来越多的金融和其他丑闻的牵累。尽管安倍迄今尚能克服主要的政治损害，但这些问题与安倍晋三第一次担任首相的任期内所面临的相似。七年前，这类丑闻最终导致他的政府垮台。
Analysts said a prolonged economic slowdown could spell the end of the so-called Abe phenomenon, in which the prime minister enjoyed high approval ratings and appeared destined to stay in office for several years, a rarity in a nation with a long series of leaders with short political life spans. They said the basis of his popularity was his success in lifting some of Japan’s economic gloom and in restoring confidence.
分析人士表示，持久的经济增长放缓可能会导致所谓的安倍现象消失，安倍现象指的是这个经历了一连串短暂政治寿命的领导人的国家中出现的一个罕见情况：首相享有很高的支持率，似乎注定能在任上呆好几年。分析人士说，安倍支持率的基础是他成功地消除了一部分日本经济的低迷，恢复了人们的信心。
“The size of the economy’s decline was a big shock to Abe and the Liberal Democratic Party,” said Katsuyuki Yakushiji, a professor of politics at Toyo University in Tokyo. “It makes Abenomics look like a failure. Abe suddenly looks desperate to stay in power.”
“经济衰退的程度对安倍和自民党是一个很大的震惊，”东京东洋大学政治学教授药师寺克行(Katsuyuki Yakushiji)说。“这让安倍经济学看起来是个失败。为了能继续执政，安倍突然显得不惜冒险。”
Analysts also said the recent signs that Abenomics was fizzling could hamper, or even block, Mr. Abe’s attempts to implement less popular parts of his agenda, such as expanding the role of Japan’s military, or restarting its shuttered nuclear industry.
分析人士表示，安倍经济学正在成为泡影的近期迹象，可能会妨碍、甚至阻止安倍晋三努力实现自己议程中不受欢迎的部分，比如扩大日本军队的作用，或重新启动已经关停的核工业。
Perhaps most important, Mr. Abe is seeking a mandate on an issue close to voters’ pocketbooks: whether to postpone a second scheduled increase of the national sales tax, which by law is to take place next year.
也许最重要的是，安倍晋三正在一个涉及选民钱包的问题上寻求授权：是否推迟预定的全国销售税的第二次提升，按照法律，这将在明年发生。
On Tuesday, Mr. Abe said he wanted to submit the issue to voters because it would amount to a reversal of a position by his Liberal Democratic Party, which supported the tax increase bill when it passed two years ago. Such a delay would undoubtedly prove popular among voters, especially after the first increase of the sales tax this year was widely blamed for contributing to the current recession.
周二，安倍晋三表示，他想把这个问题提交给选民，因为这等于是他所在的自由民主党逆转立场，该党在两年前支持了这个增税法案的通过。推迟增税无疑会受到选民的欢迎，特别是在销售税今年的首次提升被广泛指责为导致了目前的经济衰退之后。
However, many political experts also said they detected a deep pessimism under Mr. Abe’s decision. By calling an election, they said, Mr. Abe was essentially admitting that he did not see the economy regaining its energy anytime soon. Such a negative assessment of the country’s economic future might be pushing him to hold the election now, before voters become even more unhappy, they said.
然而，许多政治专家也表示，他们在安倍晋三的决定中觉察到深刻的悲观情绪。他们说，通过宣布提前选举，安倍晋三实际上等于承认了自己看不到经济能很快恢复动力。他们说，对日本经济前景的这种负面估计可能会让他决定现在举行大选，而不是在选民变得更加不满之后。
Mr. Abe’s approval ratings have begun to fall recently, with percentages in the low 40s in recent opinion surveys.
安倍晋三的支持率最近开始降低，在近期的民意调查中，他的支持率稍高于40％。
“There is only one reason to call an election now, and that is the fear that things will be only worse if he waits,” said Gerald L. Curtis, a specialist on Japanese politics at Columbia University. “The expectation of political stability and an Abe administration unchallenged for six years, that so many thought just two weeks ago was the most likely scenario, is now history. Suddenly, we have an economy in recession, a government in political trouble and a very cloudy future.”
“现在举行选举只有一个原因，那就是担心如果等待的话，事情只会变得更糟糕，”哥伦比亚大学研究日本政治的专家杰拉尔德·L·柯蒂斯(Gerald L. Curtis)说。“对日本政治稳定、安倍政府能在六年中不受挑战的预期，几周前还很普遍，但现已成为历史。突然间，我们看到日本经济衰退，政府出了政治麻烦，未来非常不乐观。”
With Mr. Abe facing so many challenges, an election might seem risky. However, analysts said the prime minister was betting that his party still had one thing going for it: It remains more appealing to voters than the main opposition Democratic Party, which has fallen into disarray since its election defeat two years ago.
由于安倍晋三面临诸多挑战，举行大选似乎有相当的风险。不过，分析人士说首相的赌注是，他所在的政党仍有一个优势：自民党仍比主要的反对党民主党对选民有更大的吸引力，因为民主党自从两年前在大选中失败以来，一直处于混乱之中。
In fact, experts said, one reason to call an election is to prevent the Democrats and other opposition parties from having enough time to enlist candidates and mount a serious challenge. With the vote only a month away, the Democrats acknowledge they have candidates to compete in only about 134 of Japan’s 295 electoral districts.
专家说，实际上，宣布提前选举的一个原因是为了防止民主党和其他在野党有足够的时间招募候选人，构成对自民党的真正挑战。由于选举日期仅一月之遥，民主党承认他们在日本295个选区中，只有约134个选区有足够的候选人能参加竞争。