DAVOS, Switzerland — Few of the panels organized by the World Economic Forum this year had drawn as much anticipation as the one featuring Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe.
瑞士达沃斯——本届世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)的活动中，最受期待的要数日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)担任主角的这次分会了。
And on Wednesday, the head of state seized the opportunity to extol his own work.
周三，这位国家元首抓住了这次称颂自己功劳的机会。
Before a packed crowd here, Mr. Abe spoke of the successes that his economic changes, called Abenomics, have brought to the long-moribund Japanese economy. In his eyes, the country has gone from “the land of the setting sun” to an economic supernova in the making.
在座无虚席的论坛现场，安倍晋三提到了自己的经济改革措施——“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)——为长期停滞的日本经济带来的成功。在他看来，日本已经从“日落之地”转变为一颗即将诞生的经济超新星。
Critics have long derided Japan as tired and past its prime, where growth is impossible.
长期以来，批评人士一直诟病日本尽显疲态，黄金时期一去不返，经济增长无望。
“Can you hear any such voices now?” Mr. Abe declared. “People are now more vibrant and upbeat.”
“你现在还能听到这样的声音吗？”安倍说，“人们现在已经变得乐观和活跃起来。”
Through a big fiscal stimulus, easing by the Bank of Japan and efforts to reduce the strictures of the Japanese economy — the “three arrows” — the prime minister has laid down what he believes will be the path for a resurgent country. His speech ran through some of his ambitious goals, from deregulating Japan’s electricity market to removing farm controls to reducing the corporate tax rate.
通过大规模财政刺激方案、日本央行的宽松政策，以及减少日本经济束缚的行动——即“三支箭”——这位首相相信自己已经为国家复兴铺平道路。他在演讲中提到了他的一系列宏伟目标，包括放松对日本电力市场的监管控制、解除对农业的管制，以及降低企业税率。
Mr. Abe clearly relished his popular perception as a taboo breaker, willing to force culture changes that would put more women in corporate leadership positions and calling for changes in the way health care companies operate. He called himself a drill bit ready to bore through entrenched systems.
安倍明显很享受被外界视作一个敢于打破禁忌的人，他想要强行改变文化，让更多女性担任企业领导岗位，并呼吁改革医疗保健公司的运作方式。他说自己是一个钻头，随时准备打破现有制度的束缚。
“No vested interests will remain immune from my drill,” he declared.
他说，“没有既得利益能够逃脱我的钻头。”
And in language that surely pleased financiers like the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb, who publicly embraced Abenomics as the cornerstone of a big bet on Japan, Mr. Abe noted that he was pushing for Japanese companies to name more external directors and let institutional investors have a greater say in corporate governance.
安倍指出，他正在推动日本公司聘请更多外部董事，让机构投资者在企业治理中拥有更大的发言权。这样的表述毫无疑问会令对冲基金经理丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)等金融家感到欣慰。勒布曾公开对安倍经济学大加赞赏，认为它是大规模押注日本的重要理由。
But the prime minister also alluded to growing tensions in the region, including the simmering dispute between Japan and China over the South China and East China seas. He praised China as an important economic ally and an essential cog in the Asian growth engine, and he spoke at length about the need to maintain peace.
安倍还提到了不断升级的地区紧张局势，包括日本和中国在南海和东海领土主权问题上不断发酵的争议。他称赞中国是一个重要的经济盟友，也是亚洲经济增长引擎的重要组成部分，并用较长篇幅谈论了维护和平的必要性。
Seeking to quell concerns that Japan might resort to military action, Mr. Abe declared that should Asia’s peace and stability be shaken, the world would suffer. The dividends of Asian growth he said, should not be wasted on military destruction.
为了平息外界对日本可能采取军事行动的担忧，安倍称，如果亚洲的和平和稳定遭到撼动，全世界都会遭殃。他说，亚洲增长的红利不应该被浪费在军事破坏上。
“Japan has sworn an oath to never again wage a war,” he said. “We have never stopped, and will continue to be wishing for the world to be at peace.”
“日本已经发誓将永不再战，”他说，“我们从未停止祈祷世界和平，未来仍将如此。”
The prime minister was poised to receive a warm welcome from the start. In his introduction to the speech, Klaus Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum, declared that “Japan is back,” and noted that he moved the dates of the high-powered gathering to avoid conflicting with the start of the Japanese legislative session.
从一开始，这里的人们就准备好对安倍做出热情的欢迎。世界经济论坛创始人克劳斯·施瓦布(Klaus Schwab)在请出安倍晋三发表演讲时说，“日本回来了”，并且指出，为了避免与日本国会会议时间冲突，他特意调整了这次高级别论坛的举办时间。
“We need bold concepts, and Abenomics is such a bold concept,” Mr. Schwab said.
施瓦布说，“我们需要大胆的概念，安倍经济学就是这样一个大胆的概念。”