Projecting himself as the leader of a resurgent and more outgoing Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe used his United Nations speech on Tuesday to announce a vast increase in aid to people uprooted by mayhem in the Middle East.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)以一个更为外向的复苏国家的领导人的形象示人，利用周二在联合国发言的机会宣布大幅增加对中东混乱局势中流离失所的人员的援助。
Mr. Abe told the General Assembly during the annual speech session that Japan would provide about $810 million in assistance to refugees and internally displaced people in Syria and Iraq this year, about triple the amount from last year.
在联合国大会年度会议上发言时，安倍晋三表示，日本今年会为叙利亚和伊拉克国内外的难民提供大约8.1亿美元（约合51.5亿元人民币）的援助，比去年增加了两倍。
He also announced assistance of about $750 million, including money to pay for water-supply systems in Iraq and other projects “to help build peace and fully ensure this peace across the Middle East and Africa.”
他还宣布提供7.5亿美元左右的支援，包括资助伊拉克供水系统，以及“帮助铸就和平、全面确保中东及非洲地区和平局面”的其他项目。
Mr. Abe’s speech was notable partly for what it did not have: any obvious reference to Japan’s friction with an increasingly assertive China. But earlier in the day, in remarks at a forum for New York bankers and investors, Mr. Abe did say that he wanted a “stable relationship between China and Japan.”
安倍晋三的发言值得注意的一部分原因在于其中没有包含的内容：他并未明显提及日本与日益强硬的中国之间的摩擦。但当天早些时候，在纽约银行业高层与投资者参加的论坛上讲话时，安倍晋三表示，他希望“日中关系保持稳定”。
In his General Assembly speech, Mr. Abe alluded to the politically delicate legislative change he successfully pushed through this month to authorize overseas combat missions for the military.
在联合国大会发言时，安倍晋三委婉地谈到了日本的一项政治敏感的立法修订活动。他本月成功地强行通过了这项修订，从而授权本国军队执行海外作战任务。
The change overturns Japan’s longstanding postwar policy on the use of force only for self-defense, and has been viewed with mistrust by the country’s Asian neighbors who were once subjugated by Japan.
这项修订推翻了日本战后长期以来的政策——军事力量只用于自卫。此举受到了曾遭日本侵略的亚洲邻国的质疑。
In his speech, however, Mr. Abe framed the change as the opposite of a belligerent move, saying it had enabled Japan to “contribute to peacekeeping operations in a broader manner going forward.”
不过，安倍晋三在讲话中将此举描绘为好战的对立面，声称这使得日本能够“以更广泛的方式协助开展维和任务”。
Mr. Abe also reinforced Japan’s longstanding desire to become a permanent member of the Security Council. He said Japan had been a “peace-loving nation for the 70 years since the end of World War II, and we have accumulated a record of successful efforts fostering peace and prosperity in the world.”
安倍晋三还重申了日本想要成为安全理事会常任理事国的长期渴望。他表示，日本“自二战结束70年来，一直是一个热爱和平的国家，我们也累积了促进世界和平与繁荣的良好记录。”
Japan is part of the so-called Group of Four, along with Brazil, Germany and India, whose members have long been advocating changes in the 15-member Security Council that would enable them to become permanent members.
日本与巴西、德国及印度组成了“四国集团”。这些国家一直倡导由15个理事国组成的安理会进行改革，从而使得它们能够成为常任理事国。
The Council is composed of 10 nonpermanent members and five permanent members — Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States — which have veto power over any resolution. The Council is the only part of the United Nations that can authorize military force.
安理会目前由10个非常任理事国和五个常任理事国——英国、中国、法国、俄罗斯和美国——组成，后者拥有对任何决议的否决权。安理会是联合国中唯一能够授权动用武力的机构。