IKATA, Japan — To power his plans for Japan’s economic revival, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe could soon return his nation to nuclear power for the first time since the Fukushima accident three years ago. But before he can, he will need the consent of the remote towns like this one that host Japan’s idled nuclear plants.
日本伊方町——为了给自己重振日本经济的计划提供能源，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)可能很快就要让国家自从三年前的福岛核灾难以来，首次回归核电。但要想回归核电，他还需要得到那些停止运行的核电站所在的偏远城镇的同意。这里就是其中一个。
All signs are that he will get it. In Japan’s political world, local consent means getting the approval of the host communities’ mayors, many of whom say they have suffered from loss of plant-related tax revenue and jobs that lifted living standards in their once-impoverished rural towns and villages. Ikata’s mayor says local businesses are clamoring for a restart of their local plant, the Ikata Nuclear Power Station, built in 1977 on a narrow peninsula facing Japan’s Inland Sea.
所有迹象都显示，安倍晋三能够得偿所愿。在日本政界，得到核电站所在地市长、町长的许可，就意味着得到了地方的同意。与核电站相关的税收收入和就业岗位，为曾经十分贫困的村镇提升了生活水准，很多市长、町长都表示，现在这些税收和就业岗位都不复存在，让他们十分被动。伊方町町长表示，当地企业奔走呼号，要求重启当地的核电站。伊方核电站1977年建于一座狭窄的半岛上，面对着濑户内海。
The mayor, Kazuhiko Yamashita, said in an interview that he would accept the plant’s resuming operations if central government regulators proclaimed it safe. Political analysts say such a cooperative attitude has made Ikata likely to be near the front of the line when Mr. Abe’s government turns on the first of Japan’s 48 idled reactors, which could come as early as this summer.
町长山下和彦(Kazuhiko Yamashita)在接受采访时说，如果中央政府的监管部门宣布核电站是安全的，他愿意接受电站恢复运行。政治分析人士表示，由于表现出了合作的态度，在日本48座停止运行的核反应堆中，伊方核电站可能属于安倍政府最先重启的一批，最早今年夏天就会恢复运行。
But that does not mean all of Ikata’s 10,700 residents are happy about leading their nation back into the atomic power age. Many confess to feeling deeply conflicted about the plant, located a few miles north of the town center over a row of mountains covered with mandarin orange groves, Ikata’s other economic mainstay.
然而这并不意味着伊方的1.07万名居民都愿意让这里率先带领日本回归原子能时代。许多人坦陈，对于核电站心情十分矛盾。这座核电站位于镇子以北几英里处，与镇中心相隔一列高山，山上种满了伊方的经济支柱柑橘树。
While most were reluctant to say so publicly, many quietly expressed a mixture of resignation and dread about the prospect of restarting the plant. They said that while they know the town depends on it economically, they fear living with a new nightmare, of suffering the same fate as residents from the evacuated towns around the Fukushima Daiichi plant.
尽管多数人不愿意公开这样表态，但是很多人私下里对重启核电站的前景表达了既有无奈，又有恐慌的复杂心情。他们说，尽管他们知道镇上的经济依赖这座核电站，但也害怕生活在新的梦魇当中，陷入福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)周边城镇已经离散殆尽的居民那样的命运。
“The restart question gives us complex feelings,” said Akihito Sakamoto, a town employee. “We feel frightened by the plant, but we also know we need it.”
“重启的问题带给我们复杂的感觉，”镇政府的雇员坂本哲人（Akihito Sakamoto，音译）表示。“我们对核电站感到恐惧，但我们也知道我们需要它。”
The town’s angst is a microcosm for the indecision that has gripped Japan as a whole. Though it has idled its undamaged reactors because of post-Fukushima safety fears, it also frets about losing a vital source of energy for this resource-poor nation. Mr. Abe and his governing Liberal Democratic Party, which has close ties to Japan’s powerful nuclear industry, have vowed to break through the logjam by restarting at least some reactors to provide low-cost electricity in hopes of keeping more factories and jobs in Japan.
伊方的焦虑只是一个缩影，反映出了困扰日本全国的犹豫不决：尽管出于福岛事故发生后的安全顾虑，日本关停了未受损坏的核反应堆，但日本这个资源匮乏的国家也在为失去关键的能源而感到苦恼。安倍晋三以及执政的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)宣称要打破僵局，至少启动一些核电站，从而提供廉价的电力，以期在日本保留更多的工厂和就业岗位。自民党与日本强大的核工业有着紧密的联系。
This has led to growing political pressure on the newly created nuclear monitoring agency to speed through safety reviews of the 17 most modern Japanese reactors, including the newest of the three reactors at the Ikata power station, as a step toward turning them back on. Analysts and industry executives say the first approvals could come in May or June, possibly in time for peak summer use.
这对新成立的核能监管机构产生了越来越大的政治压力，迫使该机构加快对日本17座建造时间最短的核反应堆进行安全审核的速度，其中就包括伊方核电站三座反应堆中最新的那座。这将是核电站重新投产前的一个步骤。分析人士及核工业界高管表示，最早的安全批文将在5月或6月发出，可能赶得上夏季的用电高峰。
It would then fall on the host towns to give final approvals before Mr. Abe’s government could restart the plants. Politicians and analysts say this will place intense pressure on local residents, including mayors, to swallow whatever misgivings they might have and say yes.
接下来，安倍政府要想重启核电站，还需要核电站所在的城镇最后批准。政治人物和分析人士表示，当地居民，包括市长、町长，都会因此承受巨大的压力，需要把内心的任何顾虑都抛诸脑后，同意重启。
“The lack of a national consensus on nuclear power shifts the burden of decision to these local communities,” said Motohisa Furukawa, a former minister in charge of economic and energy strategy. “Towns will feel bound to serve the national interest.”
“由于在核电议题上没有全国性的共识，于是抉择的负担就落在了地方城镇头上，”曾担任大臣，主管经济和能源战略的古川元久(Motohisa Furukawa)表示。“那些城镇会感觉逼不得已，只能服务于全国的利益。”
Ikata, on the western edge of Shikoku, the smallest of Japan’s four main islands, is already feeling the pressure in a different form, the enormous financial losses caused by the idling of its plant.
位于四国——日本本土四岛中最小的一个岛——西端的伊方已经感受到了另一种形式的压力，电站闲置带来的巨大财务损失。
Town officials say Ikata’s overall annual tax revenue has plummeted by a third, or about $35 million, since the last of the plant’s three reactors went offline two years ago. The biggest reason, officials said, is the disappearance of revenue from a tax that host communities are allowed to place on all new nuclear fuel brought into the plants. Those shipments have stopped since the reactors have been turned off.
镇上的官员说，自从电站的三个反应堆两年前停止发电以来，伊方的年度总税收已经骤降三分之一，约3500万美元。官员说主要原因是有一项税收消失了，即每次有电站引进新的核燃料，电站所在社区都可以征税。反应堆关闭后，燃料的输送就停止了。
Since then, the mayor, Mr. Yamashita, has called for reducing Ikata’s dependence on the plant by attracting more tourists to pick oranges, or fish in the Inland Sea. However, he also admits that it is impossible to replace the plant as the basis of the town’s economic well-being.
自那以后，山下和彦町长呼吁伊方多吸引游客前来采摘桔子，或到内陆海钓鱼，以此来减少对电站的依赖。然而，他也承认，电站作为本镇经济繁荣的基石是不可取代的。
“We know the plant has risk, but so does riding in an airplane or a car,” Mr. Yamashita said. “We want the national government to convince us that they are taking every measure to reduce that risk as much as possible.”
“我们知道电站是有风险的，但是坐飞机或汽车一样有风险，”山下说。“我们希望中央政府能让我们相信，他们会尽一切力量去减少风险。”
Nowhere is his town’s economic dependence on the plant more evident than in the appearance of the town hall, much of it funded by plant-related income. The oversize seven-story structure dwarfs every building around it — except for an equally imposing one next door that houses the museum-style promotional center for the Ikata nuclear plant.
这座镇子对电站的经济依赖，在町政府里体现的最为明显，大楼的建设有相当一部分靠的是电站相关的收入。宏伟的七层大楼让周边建筑显得很渺小——只有一个例外，就是隔壁的一座同样高耸的建筑，那是伊方核电站的一个博物馆风格的推广中心。
The two buildings are linked by an umbilical cord-like elevated walkway.
两座建筑之间连着一道脐带似的天桥。
As is often the case in Japan’s close-knit rural areas, many Ikata residents were reluctant to express opinions that could anger fellow townspeople, in this case by criticizing the plant that neighbors depend on for their livelihoods. Most offered only glimpses of their fears, and then only if assured they would not be identified by name.
和日本许多人际关系密切的乡村地区一样，伊方的居民都不愿意表达可能惹怒同乡的观点，也就是去批评电站这个邻里生活的支点。多数人只是稍稍表露了他们的恐惧，而后要求一定不能在文中具名。
Still, there has been an appearance of open, if limited, opposition to the plant, evident in the bright yellow hand-painted signs outside its gates that proclaim “Absolutely No Nukes!” A few townspeople also joined a lawsuit to shut it down permanently, though most of the 1,002 plaintiffs are from neighboring towns. The case, which was filed after the March 2011 Fukushima accident, is still in court.
然而，对电站的公开反对尽管非常有限，却也不是看不到，在电站门外的亮黄色手写标语“绝对反核”就是证据。一些居民还参与了永久关闭电站的诉讼，不过1002名原告中大多是周边村镇的人。诉讼是2011年福岛事故后发起的，目前仍在审理阶段。