BY many measures, Japan’s economic fortunes have turned up. The Tokyo stock market has surged about 65 percent since last fall. In the second quarter, the economy expanded by 3.8 percent, which is faster than other developed economies. At last, prices are edging upward, a good thing for Japan. Yet, the mood in Tokyo among businessmen and economists remains precariously balanced between enthusiasm for the monetary and fiscal stimulus unleashed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and worry that promised structural reforms might not be implemented.
从很多方面看，日本经济的命运都在扭转。东京股票市场自去年秋天以来已经大幅上扬65%。第二季度经济增长为3.8%，比其他发达国家要快。价格终于出现了上升势头，这对日本是有利的。然而东京商界和经济学界的气氛依旧不停地左右摇摆着，一边对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)颁布的货币和财政刺激政策充满热情，一边又担心承诺的结构性改革可能无法兑现。
That’s a worry that other countries should absorb. What concerns businesses in Japan concerns business all around the world. In the endless global debate about the importance of macroeconomic budgetary and monetary policies, insufficient attention is often given to the unsexy, often politically toxic pile of smaller-bore policy challenges that can be critical to restarting a faltering economy.
这样的担忧是其他国家也应该留意的。日本企业的担忧，就是全世界企业的担忧。在全球就宏观经济预算和货币政策的重要性进行着无休止的辩论之际， 那些不起眼的、往往带有政治风险的小范围政策挑战时常得不到充分关注，但它们对疲弱经济的崛起却有着至关重要的作用。
Many countries need to take on those challenges, including calcified parts of “old Europe” like France and Italy, emerging nations like India, and even the United States, with its shortsighted slant toward consumption in place of saving and investment.
许多国家需要面对这些挑战，包括像法国和意大利这些“老欧洲”中已经“钙化”的国家，还有像印度这样的新兴国家，甚至已经短视地用消费取代了储蓄和投资的美国也需要。
Japan is certainly as shackled by its own rigidities as any other country. While some export-oriented industries (autos but, notably, not electronics) have remained competitive, the domestic economy feels straitjacketed by bureaucracy, tradition and overregulation.
当然，日本和其他很多国家一样，也被自己的僵化问题制约着。一些出口导向的产业（比如汽车行业，不过值得注意的是电子产业并不在内）还是具备竞争力的，但国内经济感觉是被官僚主义、传统和过度管制束缚了手脚。
Accordingly, Mr. Abe has promised to deliver a vast array of microeconomic reforms, from permitting online drug sales to increasing the number of women in the work force by expanding child care, to “corporatizing” Japan’s fragmented farming industry.
针对这些，安倍晋三承诺会拿出许许多多的微观经济改革措施，从准许药品网络销售，到通过扩大托儿服务来增加女性的就业机会，再到对分散的日本农牧业进行“企业化”。
But to date, virtually none of Mr. Abe’s long, self-created to-do list of structural reforms, which he calls the “third arrow,” has been proposed in full detail, let alone completed.
安倍称，他的结构性改革举措为“第三箭”，然而在这份长长的、自说自话的事项清单中，实际上还没有哪一条给出过详细的介绍，更不要说去实现了。
During even a short visit, it’s easy to see that the need for microeconomic reform is glaring. All told, Japan’s labor productivity is 71 percent of America’s — and on a par with Italy’s. While Japan is still a wealthy country, its return on capital is equally unsatisfactory.
在那里待上几天就足以看出微观经济改革的必要性。日本的劳动生产效率总体上是美国的71%——和意大利持平。日本仍然是个富有的国家，但资产回报率一样是让人无法满意的。
Take, for example, the effect on staffing levels resulting from Japan’s longstanding aversion to firing. Over drinks, an American friend working at a major Japanese bank bemoaned his company’s lack of cutting-edge computerized systems, which he ascribed to the bank’s having so many people that it was more cost effective to have work done manually.
例如由于日本多年来一直对裁员深恶痛疾，这对企业员工编制构成了影响。在喝酒闲聊时，一位在日本某大型银行供职多年的美国朋友哀叹公司没有先进的电脑化系统，他把这归咎于银行的员工太多，以至于用人力去做成本效益会更好。
Some other industries troubled by noticeable inefficiencies include health care, retailing and agriculture. The average Japanese farmer is 66 years old, his farm is less than five acres in size, and he is the beneficiary of his share of about $50 billion of annual government subsidies.
还有一些产业受到显而易见的低效率的困扰，比如医疗保健、零售业和农业。日本农民的平均年龄为66岁，一个农民的农场面积在五英亩（约合30亩）以下，同时还是日本政府每年提供的500亿美元补贴的受益人之一。
Japan creates new companies at half the rate of the United States; as a result, the number of companies is shrinking and Japan ranks last among 24 developed nations in its level of entrepreneurial activity. The country also needs corporate governance reforms, like stronger boards to force change at turgid huge companies.
日本创建新公司的速度是美国的一半；因此日本的公司数量是在减少的，在24个发达国家中，日本的创业活动水平垫底。此外这个国家还需要进行企业管理改革，比如要建立更强势的董事会，以逼迫臃肿庞大的公司做出改变。
And much like the United States, it needs better tax policy: fewer loopholes, lower rates on income and, down the road, as the economy recovers, more revenue to close gaping budget deficits.
另外，和美国差不多的是，它也需要改善税收策略：减少漏洞，降低对收入的征税，待经济复苏后增加财政收入，以减少巨大的预算赤字。
Even if the prime minister pursues his ideas vigorously, Japan will still face significant structural challenges.
首相在积极地推行他的想法，但日本依然面临巨大的结构性挑战。
For example, despite a declining population, no one in Japan — essentially a closed society — is talking seriously about reforming exceptionally strict immigration laws. Nor do many expect meaningful changes in rigid labor policies.
例如，在这个基本上保持着封闭的社会里，虽然人口在减少，却没有人认真探讨对异常苛刻的移民法进行改革。也很少有人希望对僵化的劳工政策进行改变。
Some elements of Mr. Abe’s plan appear to be working. In order to stimulate consumer purchasing, he has exhorted Japanese companies to replenish thin wallets by increasing wages. As a result, consumer spending has begun to tick up, particularly for luxury items. Inside the Daimaru department store near the Tokyo train station, gleaming new boutiques have been built for brands like Prada and Bottega Veneta.
安倍的计划中有一些元素看来是见效了。为了鼓励消费者购买，他敦促日本企业给员工加薪，以充实他们瘦瘪的荷包。消费支出因此开始出现上升，尤其是对奢侈品而言。在东京火车站附近的大丸百货公司，普拉达(Prada)和宝缇嘉(Bottega Veneta)等品牌的专卖店修缮一新。
Loan demand and business investment are also finally increasing. But Tokyo, which once seemed so dazzlingly modern, now feels far from cutting edge next to gleaming cities like Shanghai. A gloomy sensibility was particularly apparent this summer, when office lights were dimmed, temperatures turned up and strict office dress codes relaxed as Japan grappled with shrunken electricity supplies following the Fukushima nuclear incident.
贷款需求和商业投资终于也开始增加了。然而，东京这个曾经耀眼的摩登世界，跟上海这样流光溢彩的都市相比已经感觉不到什么优势了。今年夏天，在福岛核事故导致电力供应紧张后，东京的写字楼灯光黯淡，空调温度被调高，严格的办公室着装规范也放松了，令颓丧的气氛显得格外明显。
Given Japan’s past failure to take on sacred cows, it’s unlikely that the country will ever again rank as an economic juggernaut. But a robust third arrow could at least put it back in the game and provide an important lesson for other developed countries.
根据日本以往在挑战权威势力时的失败表现来看，这个国家已经很难再次崛起为经济大国。但是一支足够有力的“第三箭”至少能让它起死回生，并为其他发达国家提供一个重要的教训。