TOKYO — The leaders of Japan and China are likely to meet for the first time next month on the sidelines of a regional summit in Beijing, shaking hands in a carefully negotiated display of good will that Japanese officials say they hope will lower tensions between the two estranged Asian powers.
东京——日本和中国的领导人有可能在下月北京举行的区域首脑会议期间首次会面，并以精心安排的方式握手展示良好意愿，日本官员表示，他们希望会面将缓和这两个亚洲邻国之间的紧张关系。
The officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the negotiations, said the hoped-for meeting between Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and his Chinese counterpart, President Xi Jinping, had been months in the making and involved behind-the-scenes diplomatic efforts by both nations.
由于谈判的敏感性而要求不具名的日本官员说，期望中的日本首相安倍晋三与中国国家主席习近平的会面已经酝酿了几个月，涉及到许多双方的幕后外交努力。
While they have not received final word from the Chinese side, they said they were now optimistic that the two leaders would meet briefly — perhaps for about 15 minutes — during the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting, or APEC, a summit of regional leaders that Mr. Xi will host.
虽然他们还没有得到中国方面的最终答复，但他们说目前他们乐观地认为，两国领导人将在亚太经合组织会议（简称APEC）期间短暂会面，可能是15分钟左右，APEC是区域领导人的峰会，习近平是本届峰会的东道主。
In another sign of rapprochment, Japan’s Kyodo News agency reported on Friday that Mr. Abe had shaken hands with China’s prime minister, Li Keqiang, at a dinner for Asian and European leaders in Milan.
日本共同通讯社上周五报道，在米兰的一次亚欧领导人的晚餐上，作为两国和解的又一个标志，安倍晋三与中国总理李克强握了手。
The officials said that while the meeting between the two leaders would most likely be too short to delve into issues of substance, they hoped it would be rich in symbolism. They said they hoped a meeting would open the way for a broader thaw in relations between China and Japan, Asia’s two largest economies, which have been in a deep freeze since the Japanese government purchased disputed islands two years ago.
日本官员表示，虽然两国领导人可能的会晤时间太短，不可能涉及实质性问题，但他们希望这将富有象征意义。他们说，他们希望会晤将为亚洲两个最大经济体、中国和日本之间关系的广泛复苏铺平道路，自从日本政府两年前购买了有争议的岛屿以来，中日关系一直处于极度冷淡状态。
“A month ago, I would have told you a meeting was not likely,” one Japanese official said. “Now, I’d say both countries have come around to seeing it as in their interests.”
“一个月前，我会告诉你不太可能会面，”一位日本官员说。“现在，我可以说，两国的态度都有所转变，意识到这符合他们各自的利益。”
The two countries have been locked in an almost Cold War-style standoff since the purchase of the islands by Mr. Abe’s predecessor in mid-2012, a move that was intended to prevent them from falling under the control of Japanese ultranationalists. Outraged by what it saw as a unilateral move to strengthen Japanese control over islands that it also claims, China responded by cutting off many political, academic and cultural contacts.
自从安倍晋三的前任在2012年年中购买了这些岛屿之后，中日两国一直处于一种近乎冷战式的对峙之中，当初购买岛屿是为了防止它们被日本极端民族主义者控制。中国则把购买视为日本加强对岛屿控制的单方面行动，中国对这些岛屿也有主权主张，中国对日本的行动做出了愤怒的反应，切断了许多政治、学术和文化接触。
It also began dispatching paramilitary ships almost daily to waters near the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China.
中国还开始几乎每天派准军事船只到这些东海中无人居住的岛屿附近巡逻，日本称这些岛屿为尖阁列岛，中国称之为钓鱼岛。
The ascent of Mr. Abe, a vocal conservative, in December 2012 further rankled China. Mr. Xi has refused to meet the Japanese prime minister, who is seen in China as a dangerous nationalist bent on denying World War II atrocities committed by invading Japanese troops. For his part, Mr. Abe has refused to back down in the islands dispute, expanding the flotilla of Japanese coast guard ships that now chase the Chinese vessels in games of cat and mouse in waters near the islands.
直言不讳的保守派人士安倍晋三曾在2012年12月进一步激怒中国。习近平一直拒绝与日本首相见面，中国视安倍晋三为危险的民族主义者，执意否认侵华日军在二战期间犯下的暴行。对他本人而言，安倍晋三一直拒绝在岛屿争端问题上让步，日本海上保安厅派出更多的船只前往这些岛屿附近的海域，与中国船只玩起猫捉老鼠的游戏。
Both leaders, however, have come under increasing pressure to contain the damage to their nations’ huge economic relationship. Political analysts said both were also keen to avoid appearing to be the cause of a standoff that many had worried might turn an accident or miscalculation by the vessels into a violent escalation.
但是，双方的领导人已经面临越来越大的压力，要对破坏两国间巨大经济关系的问题有所控制。政治分析人士说，双方的领导人也迫切希望避免被视为是导致一场对峙的人，许多人担心这种对峙可能会因船只意外或误判升级为暴力冲突。
The Japanese officials said Mr. Abe was keen to show other countries in the region, and also Japan’s biggest ally, the United States, that he was trying to be reasonable in responding to China’s increasingly assertive territorial claims. Since taking office, Mr. Abe has repeatedly said he was willing to talk with China “without conditions.”
日本官员说，安倍晋三急于对区域中的其他国家、以及日本最大的盟友美国显示，他试图在合理应对中国日益坚定的领土主张。自上任以来，安倍晋三曾多次表示，他愿意与中国进行“无条件的”对话。
Japanese officials said that until recently, Chinese officials had told them that as a precondition for talks, Japan must officially recognize that the islands were in dispute, something it has so far refused to do for fear of opening the door to further claims by China. Japanese leaders had also been asked by China to refrain from visiting a controversial war shrine. But Japanese officials said that China has shown more flexibility on preconditions in negotiations for the possible meeting next month between Mr. Abe and Mr. Xi.
日本官员说，直到最近，中国官员一直对他们说，对话的前提条件是，日本必须正式承认这些岛屿存在争议，而日本至今拒绝这样做，因为怕给中国进一步的领土主张敞开大门。中国还要求日本领导人不要参拜有争议的靖国神社。不过，日本官员说，就下月可能发生的安倍晋三与习近平的会面而言，中国在前提条件上显示了更灵活的态度。
On Friday, however, China expressed displeasure after Mr. Abe sent an offering of a potted plant to the Yasukuni war shrine to mark an autumn festival. Japanese officials had said they felt the offering would not affect relations with China, as no high-ranking officials had actually visited the shrine in central Tokyo.
然而上周五，中国对安倍晋三为纪念一个秋季节日向靖国神社赠送了盆栽植物一事表示不满。日本官员曾表示，他们不认为这种赠送会影响与中国的关系，因为政府的高级官员并没有实际前往这所位于东京市中心的神社。
Political analysts said that while the disputes over wartime history and the islands would continue to divide China and Japan, both nations appeared to share a growing recognition that they had too much to lose if they did not find some way to get along. With neither country willing to yield over the islands, some analysts now speak of a new status quo, in which China and Japan essentially agree to disagree on the territory, while returning to business as usual in other areas, such as trade and investment.
政治分析人士说，虽然有关战时历史和岛屿的争议将会继续在中日两国之间制造分歧，但两国似乎也越来越多地认识到，如果他们不能找到某种方式来相处的话，他们会失去更多的东西。由于两国都不愿意在岛屿问题上让步，一些分析人士现在提出一种新的状态，既中国和日本基本上同意在领土问题上保持不同意见，但在其他领域、如贸易和投资上恢复一切照旧的做法。
In that case, they said, the standoff over the islands could become a permanent feature of the security landscape, with both countries continuing to send ships there, while also taking steps to prevent the dispute from escalating. Analysts pointed to the recent resumption of talks to set up a “hotline” between the navies of China and Japan to improve communication during a crisis, which had been suspended after Japan’s purchase of the islands.
他们说，这样的话，有关岛屿的对峙可能成为安全格局上的一个永久场景，两国会继续向那里派出船只，同时也会采取步骤防止纠纷升级。分析人士指出，中日最近恢复了有关在两国海军之间建立“热线”、以在发生危机时改善沟通的谈判，谈判在日本购岛后中断了一段时间。
“Japan and China are seeking a new equilibrium,” said Narushige Michishita, director of the Security and International Studies Program at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. “The best we can do now is to keep playing this game, but at a lower level, and to find ways to be less confrontational.”
“日本和中国都在寻求一种新的平衡，”东京的日本政策研究大学院大学安全与国际研究负责人道下德成(Narushige Michishita)说。“我们现在能做的最好的事情就是继续这种尝试，但在一个更低的层次上，要找到减少对立的方法。”
Japanese officials and analysts said the first such effort to lower the tension level came in July, when Yasuo Fukuda, a former Japanese prime minister from a more dovish wing of the governing Liberal Democratic Party than Mr. Abe, was allowed to meet Mr. Xi during a visit to Beijing. Mr. Fukuda handed the Chinese leader a personal letter from Mr. Abe, and first proposed the meeting between the two leaders during the APEC summit, Japanese officials said.
日本官员和分析人士表示，试图缓解紧张局面的首次努力是在七月份，当时，曾任日本首相的福田康夫在访问北京期间获许与习近平见面，福田康夫属于执政的自民党中比安倍晋三所属的派别更温和的一派。福田康夫向中国领导人转交了安倍晋三的亲笔信，并首次提出两国领导人在APEC峰会期间会晤，日本官员说。