TOKYO — Despite low voter turnout, the governing party of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was heading toward a landslide victory in parliamentary elections on Sunday that would give Mr. Abe a chance to remain Japan’s leader for several more years.
东京——尽管投票率较低，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的执政党在周日举行的议会选举中可能会获得压倒性的胜利，让安倍有机会在未来几年继续担任日本首相。
The question, political analysts say, is what Mr. Abe will do with his renewed mandate.
政治分析人士表示，问题是安倍晋三赢得连任后，会做些什么。
When the prime minister called the snap elections last month, he proclaimed them a referendum on his economic-revival policies, known as Abenomics. The policies have appeared to be losing steam recently after initially lifting the long-stagnant economy when Mr. Abe took office two years ago.
上个月要求提前选举时，安倍晋三宣布就其经济复苏政策——所谓“安倍经济学”——进行公投。安倍晋三两年前开始执政时，此类政策提振了长期停滞不前的经济，但这种政策最近似乎失去了动力。
During the elections, however, he remained vague on what he would do to breathe new life into Abenomics — policies that have so far amounted to little more than pressing the central bank to flood the economy with cash.
但在选举期间，安倍晋三对他将采取什么举措赋予安倍经济学生机依然含混其词，到目前为止，除了迫使央行向市场注入大量现金，没有什么别的举措。
Economists have called on Mr. Abe to follow through with promised changes to open Japan’s still-protected markets to greater competition — such as by making it easier for young Japanese to create start-ups — and to more trade and foreign investment.
经济学家曾呼吁安倍晋三遵守承诺，进行改革，开放仍然受到保护的市场，增加竞争——比如方便日本年轻人创业，促进贸易及外国投资。
The promised changes, however, will require Mr. Abe to challenge many of the vested interest groups that supported him during this elections, like the powerful national farming cooperatives.
但要想兑现改革承诺，安倍晋三需要挑战很多在此次选举中支持他的既得利益集团，比如权势强大的全国农业协同组合联合会。
At the same time, political analysts have also been speculating on what the conservative Mr. Abe may attempt outside the economic realm, something about which he said even less during the elections. With his governing party now under no foreseeable legal obligation to call elections for another four years, analysts said, Mr. Abe may use that time to try to pass less-popular changes, such as expanding the role of his nation’s military or promoting more positive portrayals of Japan’s World War II-era history.
与此同时，政治分析家还在推测，作为保守派的安倍晋三在经济领域外会采取什么举措，他在选举期间对此谈得更少。分析人士表示，由于安倍晋三领导的执政党目前没有法律义务，要求进行下一任期的选举，安倍晋三可能会利用这段时间，设法通过不太受欢迎的改革，比如扩大该国军队的作用，或对日本在二战时期的历史进行更加正面的描绘。
“Now that he was won such a big victory, Prime Minister Abe has given no clear message on what will he try to accomplish with it," said Naoto Nonaka, a political expert at Gakushuin University in Tokyo. “Despite the rhetoric about Abenomics, his main goal seemed to be securing his own political position.”
“安倍晋三已经大获全胜，但他没有明确表示获胜后会努力达到什么目标，”东京学习院大学(Gakushuin University)政治专家野中尚人(Naoto Nonaka)说。“尽管安倍晋三放出豪言壮语，推行安倍经济学，但他的主要目标好像是确保自己的政治地位。”
If so, Mr. Abe appears to have succeeded. While votes are still being counted, the prime minister’s Liberal Democratic Party has won 290 of the 475 seats up for grabs in the powerful Lower House, with two seats still undecided, according to Japan’s public broadcaster NHK. The governing party appears to be on course to win slightly fewer than its pre-election total of 295 seats, but it will still hold a sizable majority in the chamber.
如果是这样的话，安倍晋三似乎已经成功。据日本公共电视广播公司NHK透露，虽然投票结果仍在统计当中，安倍晋三领导的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)已经赢得了475个席位中的290个，即将掌管众议院(Lower House)，但还有两个席位的情况尚不明朗。执政党的成绩看起来会略低于选前所拥有的295个席位，但仍将在众议院保持相当大的多数优势。
After the size of the victory became apparent, a smiling Mr. Abe appeared before television cameras at the Tokyo headquarters of his party to affix red roses to the names of victorious Liberal Democratic candidates. He said the victory was a call from voters to continue with his Abenomics policies to revitalize Japan, the world’s third-largest economy after the United States and China.
在大幅胜出的迹象变得明显之后，安倍晋三面带微笑地出现在电视摄像机前，在该党位于东京的总部给获胜的自民党候选人的名字上点缀上红玫瑰。他表示，此次胜利表明选民希望能继续通过实施他的安倍经济学来振兴日本。日本是仅次于美国和中国的第三大经济体。
He also seemed to recognize that there was growing discontent with his policies, which have bolstered the stock market but have yet to increase the real incomes of working Japanese.
他似乎也意识到，人们对他的政策越来越不满。他的政策虽然提振了股市，但还没有提高日本工作者的实际收入。
“Abenomics is still unfinished,” Mr. Abe said on live television. “We have ended the dark stagnation of two or three years ago, but there are still many people who haven’t felt the benefits yet. We need to make sure that the benefits reach them.”
“安倍经济学尚未完成，”安倍晋三在电视直播中表示。“我们已经结束了两三年前黑暗的停滞局面，但是仍然有很多人还没有感受到好处。我们需要确保他们也能享受到这些好处。“
Indeed, despite the size of the apparent victory on Sunday, analysts like Mr. Nonaka said the results did not represent an enthusiastic embrace of Mr. Abe and his party by voters. Rather, they said, the biggest reason for the victory may have been the fact that opposition parties remain in disarray after their last crushing defeat at the polls, two years ago.
的确，野中尚人等分析人士表示，尽管他们周日的大胜无可置疑，但这些结果并不代表选民十分拥护安倍晋三和他的政党。分析人士表示，相反，他们获胜的最大原因可能是，反对党上次在两年前的民意调查中一败涂地之后，目前仍然处于混乱状态。
In street interviews, Japanese voters said that with the opposition offering no appealing alternatives, they felt no choice but to support the Liberal Democrats. In Chofu, a suburb of Tokyo, voters said that they had not felt any benefits from Abenomics, but said that they were still better than the policies of the opposition Democratic Party, which was widely seen here as mismanaging the country during a stint in power a few years ago.
日本选民在街头采访中表示，由于反对派没有提供任何具有吸引力的替代方案，他们觉得别无选择，只能支持自民党。在东京市郊的调布，选民称他们还没有感受到安倍经济学带来的任何好处，但是表示，这些政策仍然比反对党民主党(Democratic Party)的政策好，这里的人广泛认为，几年前曾执政的民主党对日本管理不善。
“Abenomics is not a key issue for me, but there are no other parties who deserve my vote,” said Masashi Shibata, 38, a public employee who said he had voted for the Liberal Democrats. “The Liberal Democratic Party is still better than the Democratic Party.”
“对我来说，安倍经济学并不是一个关键问题，但是没有其他政党值得获得我的投票，”38岁的公职人员柴田雅吏（Masashi Shibata，音译）说。他说自己把票投给了自民党。“自民党仍然比民主党好。”
“I did not have any alternatives,” said Yuko Tanino, a 45-year-old shop worker. “The Liberal Democratic Party was the only option.”
“我没有任何其他选择，”45岁的店员谷野优子（Yuko Tanino，音译）说。“自民党是唯一的选择。”
In fact, many Japanese appeared to decide not to vote at all. Early tallies showed that 52.7 percent of eligible Japanese cast votes on Sunday, the lowest turnout in postwar Japanese history.
事实上，许多日本人似乎都决定不参与投票。早期的计算显示，周日只有52.7%有投票资格的日本人参与了投票，为日本战后历史上投票率最低的一次。