TOKYO — Flush with victory in this month’s national elections, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan began a new term on Wednesday by reappointing most of his cabinet and proclaiming that he wanted to revise his nation’s Constitution, which renounces war.
东京——周三，在对本月的全国大选获胜的兴奋情绪中，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)开始了新一届任期。他让内阁的大部分成员留任，并且宣布自己希望修改放弃战争的日本宪法。
He also vowed to push through deregulation and other structural changes to advance his growth policies, known as Abenomics, and revive Japan’s recession-hit economy. Mr. Abe, speaking at a late-night news conference, laid out his vision for a term that could last as long as four more years, which would be enough to make him one of the longest-serving prime ministers since World War II.
他还发誓要促成放松监管及其他一些结构性变革，以推进被称作“安倍经济学”的增长政策，重振遭受衰退打击的日本经济。在深夜的新闻发布会上发表讲话时，安倍晋三勾画了新一届任期的愿景。他的新任期最长可达四年，足以让他成为二战后在位时间最久的日本首相之一。
“I will give my all to advance the biggest reforms since the end of the war,” Mr. Abe told reporters. “This is a challenge that we must take.”
“我将尽我所能，推动战后规模最大的改革，”安倍晋三告诉记者。“这是我们必须应对的挑战。”
Admitting that he still faces a battle to revise the Constitution, Mr. Abe said he must first build popular support for any changes. While the current Constitution was written after the war by American occupation forces, it has never been revised, and remains popular with the Japanese people.
安倍晋三承认，在修宪方面自己依然面临着一场斗争，并表示不管要进行何种修改，他首先必须争取民众的支持。尽管当前的宪法由美国占领军在战后制定，但它从未被修改过，并且依然深得日本民众的支持。
However, there are growing feelings that constitutional limits on its armed forces no longer make sense for a nation that faces the challenge of a rising China, and what is perceived to be the relative decline of its postwar protector, the United States. Many right-wing politicians, including Mr. Abe, have long called for replacing the Constitution with a domestically written one to restore the defeated nation’s wounded pride.
然而，越来越多的人觉得，日本眼下面临着中国日渐崛起、战后保护者美国被认为相对衰落带来的挑战，此时宪法对武装力量的限制失去了意义。长期以来，包括安倍晋三在内的许多右翼政界人士，一直要求用日本自己制定的宪法来取代当前宪法，以恢复这个战败国家受伤的自尊。
The landslide election victory on Dec. 14 by Mr. Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party has put it close to the two-thirds majority needed under Japanese law to pass changes in the Constitution. However, those changes must also be approved by a majority of voters, which Mr. Abe admitted remained a high hurdle.
日本法律规定，要通过对宪法的修订，须获得国会三分之二的多数。安倍晋三领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)在12月14日的选举中取得压倒性胜利，使其离这一要求颇为接近。然而，相关修改还必须获得大部分选民的同意。安倍晋三承认，这依然是一个难题。
Mr. Abe said he would “work hard to increase the people’s understanding” of the need for constitutional changes, while also coming up with specific proposals for which parts to change.
安倍表示，他将“努力使民众更加能够理解”修宪的必要性，同时会提出关于修改哪些部分的具体计划。
These would likely include Article 9, which renounces both the right to wage war and to maintain “war potential.” For decades, Japan has interpreted this as allowing a purely defensive military with strict limits on what it can do. Before becoming prime minister, Mr. Abe had spoken of altering the Constitution to allow a full military without so many limitations.
修改范围很可能包括宪法第九条。这一条款同时放弃了发动战争和保持“战争力量”的权利。数十年来，日本一直将该条款解读为只允许保留纯粹的防御性部队，且其活动必须受到严格限制。在成为首相之前，安倍晋三就曾提到过修宪，从而使日本拥有完备的军队，且不会受到如此多的限制。
Such a change would probably face intense resistance from the Japanese public, many of whom still reject anything hinting at Japan’s failed wartime militarism. It may also further alienate its two Asian neighbors, China and South Korea, where memories of Imperial Japan’s brutal early 20th-century march across Asia remain raw.
对第九条的修改很可能会面临日本民众的激烈抵制。许多民众仍然抵触任何让人想起日本战时失败的军国主义的事物。此举还可能会进一步疏远两个亚洲邻国：中国和韩国。这两个国家对20世纪初日本帝国在亚洲各地的残暴行径仍然记忆犹新。
“Next, changing the Constitution. Well, I think I can say this will be a historic challenge,” Mr. Abe said. “It won’t be so easy.”
“接下来，修改宪法。我认为，可以说，我们将会面临历史性的挑战，”安倍晋三表示。“不会那么容易。”
Mr. Abe spoke after the Parliament’s lower house re-elected him on Wednesday as prime minister, in a victory that was never in doubt given his party’s dominance of the chamber. Mr. Abe then reappointed all but one member of his cabinet, removing only his scandal-tainted defense minister, Akinori Eto.
众议院周三重新选举安倍晋三担任首相之后，他发表了讲话。考虑到自民党在议院的主导地位，他的胜利完全在意料之中。除了身陷丑闻的防卫大臣江渡聪德(Akinori Eto)，安倍晋三内阁的其他成员均获连任。