WASHINGTON — If President Obama adopts the most far-reaching recommendations of the advisory group he set up to rein in the National Security Agency, much would change underneath the giant antennas that sprout over Fort Meade, Md., where America’s electronic spies and cyber warriors have operated with an unprecedented amount of freedom since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
华盛顿——为了约束国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA），奥巴马总统组建了一个顾问小组。如果他采纳这个小组提出的影响最为深远的建议，在马里兰州米德堡冒出来的巨型天线下，恐怕就会发生巨大变革。自从2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击发生以来，美国在这里开展的电子谍报和网络作战行动，一直拥有着前所未有的自由。
No longer would a team of two dozen or so agency analysts be able to type into a computer that there was a “reasonable, articulable suspicion” about the person behind an American telephone number and, in seconds, see every call made to and from that phone — followed by the same records for hundreds or thousands of their contacts. Instead, an individual court order would have to be obtained — a far slower process that, just months ago, Mr. Obama’s intelligence team insisted would be too cumbersome in halting attacks.
二十多位情报部门的分析人员现在只需要在电脑上用键盘敲一些字，说明与某个美国电话号码相关的个人存在“合理且可阐明的嫌疑”，几秒钟后就能查阅那部电话接听或拨打的每一个电话，之后还能获得这些号码的数百乃至数千名联系人的呼叫记录。根据上述建议，以后要想这样做，首先需要取得一份单独的法庭命令，这一过程要缓慢得多，就在几个月前，奥巴马的情报团队还曾表示，这样做太累赘，会妨碍遏制袭击的工作。
On the same guarded campus, military and civilian computer hackers working for the United States Cyber Command would be barred from using one of the most important building blocks of their growing arsenal of sophisticated cyber weapons. Every day they exploit previously unknown flaws in computer programs, known in the industry as “zero-days,” to conduct both surveillance and attacks. A handful of such flaws — named for the fact that they have been known to the world for zero days, and thus cannot be defended against — were central to attacking Iran’s nuclear plant at Natanz.
在同一片警备森严的园区里，为美国网络战司令部(United States Cyber Command)工作的军职和文职电脑黑客过去在他们规模日益增大的高端网络武器中，可以使用一种最为重要的手段。每一天，他们都会利用电脑程序里过去不为人知的漏洞，既进行监控又实施攻击。它们在业内被称为“零日”(zero-day)漏洞，之所以如此命名是因为存在的漏洞为外界所知的时间是零天，而被攻击者连一天准备防范的时间都没有。位于伊朗纳坦兹的核设施曾受到攻击，若干个此类漏洞就起到了核心作用。但根据上述建议，这种做法也会被禁止。
Already, critics of the advisory report have called it a form of unilateral disarmament.
顾问小组的报告现在已经受到了批评。批评者称，这相当于单方面裁军。
“Bad idea,” said James Lewis, the cyber expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “We’d be the only country in the world to knock ourselves out of the market — the Chinese, the Russians, the Iranians, every criminal gang would still be out there developing attacks” with these flaws.
位于华盛顿的国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的网络战专家詹姆斯·刘易斯(James Lewis)说，“真是个坏主意。”面对这些漏洞，“中国、俄罗斯、伊朗，还有各种犯罪团伙都会拿来用以发动攻击。我们会成为世界上仅有的一个自己把自己赶出局的国家。”
For Mr. Obama — who in the past five years has grown dependent on the N.S.A. for countering terrorist threats, and dependent on Cyber Command for buying time to deal with Iran and other long-term adversaries — the choices he makes in the next few weeks may well define America’s approach to national security long after his term is over.
在过去五年里，奥巴马一直依靠NSA来对付恐怖威胁，在与伊朗和其他长期对手进行交锋时，也需要依赖网络战司令部来换取更多时间。而他即将在未来几周作出的选择，即使在他卸任后，也会长期地影响美国应对国家安全议题的方式。
But it is a major balancing act between a security system that he has come to depend on and principles of privacy that he has said are dear to him.
这也是在安全系统和保护隐私之间寻求平衡的时刻——一方面他已经开始依赖这个安全系统，另一方面他也曾说过自己十分珍视隐私原则。
One of the five experts in the advisory group, Michael Morell, says the task is possible. “We are not in any way recommending the disarming of the intelligence community,” said Mr. Morell, who retired over the summer as deputy director of the C.I.A.
顾问小组五位专家成员中的迈克尔·莫雷尔(Michael Morell)表示，这项任务是可能完成的。他说，“我们无论如何都不是在建议解散情报系统。”莫雷尔今年夏天刚刚从中央情报局(CIA)副局长任上退休。
But that is different from saying the choices are cost free. “Both of these have operational impact; there is no question about that,” Michael Hayden, a former director of both the N.S.A. and the C.I.A., said Thursday. “For sure, there are other values than just intelligence collection. Those may be worth it. But there is no doubt that this will make the collection of intelligence slower and more difficult.”
但这也不是说这些选择不需要付出代价。这两项提议“都会对情报行动产生影响，这一点毫无疑问，”曾先后在NSA和中情局担任局长的迈克尔·海登(Michael Hayden)说。“除了收集情报之外，还有其他的价值。那些价值可能值得保障，但毫无疑问会让收集情报的行动更慢、更难。”
While few in the White House want to admit as much in public, none of this would have happened without the revelations by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now in asylum in Russia. While Mr. Obama has said he welcomes the debate about the proper limits on the N.S.A., it is not one he engaged in publicly until the Snowden revelations began. Now the president has little choice: this week alone a constellation of forces is pushing for change: a federal judge called the bulk-collection program “almost Orwellian,” while some in Congress, many of his allies and Silicon Valley executives demanded change.
尽管白宫里很少有人原意在公开场合直白地承认，但如果不是爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)揭露的信息，这一切都不会发生。斯诺登是前NSA承包商雇员，现在正在俄罗斯避难。虽然奥巴马说过他欢迎就NSA行动的适当界限展开辩论，但他也是在斯诺登揭露信息之后，才公开加入讨论。现在奥巴马总统几乎已经别无选择：单单是本周，就有一系列力量推动着做出变革：一位联邦法官称大规模收集情报的计划“几乎是奥威尔式的(Orwellian)”，一些国会议员，包括总统的很多盟友，以及硅谷高管也都呼吁作出改变。
Those represent very different pressures. Mr. Obama has already said that bulk collection of telephone records should continue. The unresolved question is whether he agrees with the advisory committee that the records should remain in private hands — either the telecommunications companies or a private consortium — and that individual court authorizations should be required for every use of metadata. While Mr. Obama can deal with some of those issues by executive order, others would doubtless require congressional action — and even his own party is deeply divided about how much leeway the N.S.A. should have.
这些力量代表着完全不同的压力。奥巴马已经表示，大规模收集电话记录的项目应当继续。但尚不确定他是否认同顾问小组的看法，即电话记录应当保留在私有机构手中，要么是电信公司，要么是一家私营企业的联盟，并且每次使用元数据都需要取得单独的法庭授权。尽管奥巴马可以通过发布行政命令来解决其中的一些问题，但另一些议题无疑需要国会采取行动。但即使是在奥巴马的民主党内部，对于NSA应当有多大的裁量权也存在很深的分歧。
Mr. Obama has already acted on another recommendation , albeit quietly: The N.S.A. and the director of national intelligence are no longer able to monitor the cellphones and emails of leaders of other nations without White House approval. That does not mean no national leaders will be tapped; as Zbigniew Brzezinski said Thursday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” “They are the ones we should be listening to.”
对于另一项建议，奥巴马已经悄然做出行动：现在NSA和国家情报总监如果没有白宫的批准，就不能监控其他国家领导人的手机或电子邮件。这并不意味着国家领导人不会受到监听，就像兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基 (Zbigniew Brzezinski)周四在MSNBC的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)节目上所说的，“有一些国家的领导人是我们应该监听的。”
The president is also the one who must approve the use of cyber weapons. Gen. Keith Alexander, who leads both the N.S.A. and Cyber Command, said there were only “a handful or less” such attacks conducted by the United States. But designing the stealthiest cyber weapons occupies thousands of specialists and costs billions of dollars.
网络武器的使用也需要得到总统的批准。NSA局长兼网络战司令部司令基思·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith Alexander)说，美国实施的这种攻击“屈指可数”，但设计最隐蔽的网络武器却需要招募数千名专业人员，花费数十亿美元的资金。
The pressure to rein them in is coming from industry, which fears that the N.S.A.’s abilities to crack data encryption and bore into foreign computer systems and the cloud will scare away business across Europe and Asia. Mr. Obama must now make a choice: to keep building the world’s most sophisticated cyber arsenal, or pare back for fear of harming American competitiveness.
科技产业界对此施加了压力。科技企业担心，如果NSA有能力破解加密的数据，侵入外国电脑系统，取得云端的数据，欧洲和亚洲的业务就会被吓跑。现在，奥巴马必须做出选择：要么继续打造全世界最先进的网络武器，要么收敛一些，以免伤害美国的竞争力。