TOKYO — Two female cabinet ministers resigned on Monday for separate election campaign scandals, dealing an ill-timed political blow to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and two of his stated policy goals: empowering women and returning Japan to nuclear power.
东京——周一，两名女性内阁大臣因各自涉及的竞选丑闻辞职。此事颇为不合时宜，让日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)及其既定的两大政策目标，即赋予女性权利以及让日本重回核电，在政治上遭遇重创。
The two were the highest-profile women in Mr. Abe’s government, and among the five women he appointed to his cabinet last month, matching an all-time high for the number of women in minister-level positions.
辞职的这两人，是安倍政府最引人注目的女性成员。上月，安倍任命了五名女性内阁成员，使得大臣级别职位的女性人数与历来最高水平比肩。
One of the two was Yuko Obuchi, the popular daughter of a former prime minister who was supposed to lead the government’s efforts to persuade a skeptical public to allow the restart of Japan’s shuttered nuclear plants.
辞职的其中一人是前首相之女小渊优子(Yuko Obuchi)。支持者甚众的她，本应领导安倍政府进行各种努力，以说服持怀疑态度的公众允许日本重启关闭的核电站。
The turmoil in his cabinet deals a setback to Mr. Abe at a vulnerable moment, just as his Abenomics policies for reviving growth are showing signs of losing steam.
内阁经历的此次震动，是安倍面临的一次挫折。此时正值安倍颇为脆弱之际，因为他意在恢复增长的安倍经济学政策，正显露出失去动力的迹象。
Earlier this month, the I.M.F. slashed its growth forecast for Japan, saying that the blow to consumer spending from an increase in the national sales tax this spring was larger than expected.
本月早些时候，国际货币基金组织(IMF)大幅下调了对日本经济增长的预测，理由是日本今春增加全国性销售税的举动，对消费者支出的冲击比预想的大。
The resignations are also the first political crisis faced by Mr. Abe, who has enjoyed relatively high approval ratings since taking power in December 2012. Two ministers resigning on the same day because of scandal is unheard-of even in Japan’s often short-lived cabinets, prompting local media to draw ominous comparisons with Mr. Abe’s first term seven years ago, when he was forced to resign after a series of political scandals.
辞职事件也是安倍面临的首次政治危机。自2012年12月上台以来，安倍的民意支持率一直较高。日本内阁的存在时间通常较短，但即便如此，两名大臣同一天因丑闻辞职的情况也前所未闻。这使得国内媒体将之与安倍七年前的首个任期进行了不详的类比。当时，因为一系列政治丑闻，安倍被迫辞职。
Calls for Ms. Obuchi to step down as trade minister had been growing after revelations that her support groups may have used political funds to treat supporters to trips to a popular theater, and to buy them handkerchiefs and neckties from a boutique run by Ms. Obuchi’s brother-in-law.
小渊优子被曝出其支持团体可能动用政治资金请支持者去一家热门剧院观看演出，并从她的姻亲经营的一家时装店里购买送给支持者的手帕和领带。此后，要求她辞任经济产业大臣的呼声日渐高涨。
Opposition lawmakers said such uses of funds could be a violation of laws against bribing voters, a charge Ms. Obuchi denied at a news conference on Monday to announce her resignation.
反对党议员表示，政治资金的这类用途可能违反了禁止贿赂选民的法律。在周一宣布辞职的新闻发布会上，小渊优子否认了这一指控。
Ms. Obuchi, a moderate who was being groomed to one day possibly become Japan’s first woman prime minister, had been given one of the toughest jobs in the Abe government: winning public support for restarting at least some of Japan’s 48 nuclear reactors, idled after the 2011 Fukushima accident.
作为温和派的小渊优子，一直被塑造成有一天可能会成为日本首位女首相的形象。她被赋予了安倍政府最艰巨的任务之一：赢得民众的支持，重启日本48座核反应堆中的至少一部分。2011年的福岛事故后，这些核反应堆一直闲置。
“I sincerely apologize, as a member of the Abe cabinet, for failing to make any contribution to reviving the economy, or bringing about a society in which women shine,” Ms. Obuchi said, repeating one of Mr. Abe’s political slogans.
在发布会上，小渊优子提到了安倍的一个政治口号，“作为安倍内阁的一份子，我没有为复苏经济及创造一个能使女性发光的社会做出任何贡献，我为此真诚地表示道歉。”
The other woman to step down was Midori Matsushima, who resigned as justice minister following criticisms that she handed out free hand-held fans to supporters, a possible violation of political finance laws that prohibit gifts of monetary value to voters.
辞职的另一名女性是法务大臣松岛绿(Midori Matsushima)。有人指责她曾向支持者分发免费扇子，而这可能违反了禁止向选民发放有金钱价值的礼物的政治资金法。
Despite the apparently small value of the fans, opposition lawmakers had begun calling for a criminal investigation into Ms. Matsushima, saying it was particularly unseemly for a justice minister to violate the laws she was sworn to uphold.
虽然扇子显然不值多少钱，但反对党议员还是开始呼吁对松岛绿进行刑事调查。他们声称，法务大臣竟然违反了自己发誓要捍卫的法律，这样做非常欠妥。
Hoping to limit the political damage, Mr. Abe accepted the resignations and quickly appointed two successors, both relatively unknown lawmakers from his governing Liberal Democratic Party. Only one of the two replacements was a woman, reducing the number of women in Mr. Abe’s cabinet to four.
为了限制负面政治影响，安倍晋三接受了两人的辞呈，并迅速任命了两名继任者。这两人都是来自他领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)的不太出名的议员。两位继任者中只有一名女性，从而把安倍内阁的女性人数减少到了四人。
The other three women in his cabinet have also been hit by their own, smaller problems. Eriko Yamatani, chairwoman of the National Public Safety Commission, which oversees the nation’s police forces, has come under criticism for appearing in a photograph with a member of the Zaitokukai, an ultranationalist group accused of hate speech against ethnic Koreans in Japan.
内阁中的其他三名女性也因为各自的小问题而受到困扰。负责日本警察部队的国家公安委员会(National Public Safety Commission)委员长山谷惠里子(Eriko Yamatani)因为与“在特会”(Zaitokukai)的一名成员合影而受到批评。在特会是一个极端民族主义组织，被指散布对韩裔日本人的仇恨言论。