TOKYO — When she was pregnant with the first of her three sons, Chiaki Kitajima, an advertising executive here, said her bosses were shocked that rather than accept reduced hours and a demotion after maternity leave, she made a presentation on why the company should subsidize child care.
东京——北岛千明（Chiaki Kitajima，音译）是这里一家广告公司的高管，有三个儿子。她说，当怀上第一胎，自己不接受减少工作时间及产假结束后降职的安排，还陈述了公司应该提供育儿补贴的原因时，老板颇为震惊。
“I had to fight to convince them that supporting me was a good investment,” she said. Ms. Kitajima, 47, is now the creative director of her advertising agency but says mothers at her professional level remain rare.
“我不得不争取让他们相信，支持我是一笔有利的投资，”她说。如今，47岁的北岛千明是她所在广告公司的创意总监，但她说，在她这个职业级别上，职业母亲依然比较少见。
The Japanese prime minister would like to change that. And he has a fix for his country’s troubled economy: the supermom.
日本首相希望改变这一点。并且针对这个国家的经济困境，他有一个解决办法：超级妈妈。
These days, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been encouraging Japanese women to have it all. A rewarding career. Children, preferably more than one.
近来，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)一直鼓励日本女性拥有一切。报酬丰厚的事业。孩子，而且最好不止一个。
In a country where juggling work and family has long been especially difficult, Mr. Abe has pledged to ease the way for women like Ms. Kitajima, with more state-funded child care and other measures to foster “a society where all women shine.” Tackling the nation’s shrinking population and declining labor force by encouraging working women is part of his broader effort to re-energize the economy, which is looking especially unsteady after Japan unexpectedly fell into a recession last quarter.
在这个兼顾工作和家庭历来特别困难的国家里，安倍晋三许诺为像北岛千明这样的女性创造便利，方式是提供更多由国家出资的儿童看护服务及其他措施，以培育一个“所有女性都能发光的社会”。通过鼓励职业女性来解决日本人口规模不断缩小，劳动力日渐减少的问题，是他重振经济整体行动的一部分。在日本上季度出人意料地陷入衰退后，日本经济看上去非常不稳定。
His promises, though, will be difficult to put into practice, given entrenched societal and corporate norms. While the share of working women has been steadily growing — and now exceeds the level in the United States — they tend to earn significantly less than men. Mothers, in particular, are more likely to drop out of the work force.
然而，考虑到根深蒂固的社会和企业惯例，他的承诺很难付诸实践。尽管日本职业女性所占比例一直在稳步上升——现在已超过了美国的水平——她们的收入往往明显少于男性。职业母亲尤其更有可能退出劳动力大军。
Mr. Abe must overcome an entrenched corporate culture that prizes long and inflexible hours favoring men, and the prime minister’s own conservative party makes for an unlikely champion of women.
安倍晋三必须克服偏向男性的企业文化，这种根深蒂固的文化重视漫长且固定的工作时间。他所在的保守派政党也不太可能成为女性的捍卫者。
A decade ago one of his predecessors, Yoshiro Mori, said women who delayed giving birth in order to work were selfishly “exulting in freedom,” suggesting that those without children should be disqualified from receiving public pensions. A health minister in Mr. Abe’s first government, which lasted from 2006 to 2007, described women as “baby-making machines.”
十年前，时任首相森喜朗(Yoshiro Mori)表示，为了工作而推迟生育的女性是在自私地“享受自由”，并称应取消那些没生孩子的女性领取公共养老金的资格。在安倍晋三2006年至2007年的第一届政府里，一名负责卫生事务的大臣称女性是“生育机器”。
This summer, a ruling-party member of the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly had to apologize for taunting a female legislator with calls of “Get married” and “Can’t you have a baby?”
去年夏天，因为以高喊“快结婚吧”及“你就不能生个孩子吗？”的方式奚落一名女议员，东京都议会(Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly)的一名执政党议员不得不道歉。
In September, the head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, said significant steps to close the gender gap could increase Japanese economic growth by a quarter of a percentage point. That is not small in a country that has averaged less than 1 percent growth for the last two decades.
9月，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)表示，消除性别差距的重大举措，会让日本的经济增长速度提高四分之一个百分点。在一个过去二十年里平均增速不到1%的国家，这不是个小数字。
“Japan is using only half its population, so how can it compete internationally?” said Mikiko Fujiwara, a former investment banker who runs career seminars for female employees at businesses and local governments. Demand for her services, she said, has increased since Mr. Abe began pushing his message of female empowerment on corporate executives. “They didn’t think it was worth the money to specifically train women before, but that’s changed.”
“日本只有一半人口在工作，这样如何能在国际上竞争，”为企业和地方政府的女雇员举办职业研讨会的前投资银行家藤原树子（Mikiko Fujiwara，音译）说。她表示，自安倍晋三开始向企业高管发出赋权于女性的呼唤以来，对她的服务的需求增加了。“以前，他们认为不值得花钱专门培训女性，但现在变了。”
Mr. Abe’s record so far is mixed. In September, he appointed five women to his cabinet, equaling the largest number on record. Yet the majority belonged to the most socially conservative wing of his party, which opposes feminist causes like changing Japan’s male-only royal succession and allowing husbands and wives to keep separate surnames. Two of the women resigned in October, facing campaign-funding scandals.
从以往的表现看，安倍的立场并不坚决。今年9月，他任命了五名女性内阁成员，创下了女性入阁数量之最。然而，她们中的多数人都属于安倍晋三政党中社会保守主义倾向最严重的派系，这个派系反对女权主义的诉求，比如改变日本皇室只有男性拥有继承权的规定，以及允许丈夫和妻子保留各自的姓氏。其中两名女性内阁成员因为竞选资金丑闻于10月辞职。
One of Mr. Abe’s initial proposals has also come under fire. He outlined plans to extend unpaid maternity leave for up to three years, an idea that appeared to reflect the once-common belief in Japan that women need to “hug their children close” until they are toddlers. But such a long absence from work can also derail a career.
安倍晋三最初的一项计划也遭到了猛烈攻击。他提出了将无薪产假延长到三年的方案，这个想法似乎反映的是在日本曾一度盛行的观念，即女性需要“经常拥抱她们的孩子”，直到孩子蹒跚学步。但这样长时间不工作可能会让职业发展脱离正轨。
“The idea of taking three years off is absurd; nobody asked for that,” said Rumi Sato, a journalist and author of “Sugo-haha,” or “Amazing mothers,” a study of working mothers in Japan. “Women want to know that they can get back on track when they return.”
“休三年产假的想法很愚蠢；没人想那么做，”记者佐藤月美（Rumi Sato，音译）说。她是研究日本上班族妈妈的《了不起的妈妈们》(Amazing Mothers)的作者。“女人想要知道，当她们重返工作时，可以回归正轨。”
Mr. Abe’s most concrete policy moves have focused on child care, which is in short supply in major cities. His government is trying to eliminate nursery school waiting lists by creating 400,000 new spaces by March 2018. It is also working to loosen immigration restrictions that have limited foreign nannies and housekeepers.
安倍晋三最具体的政策措施专注于儿童保育。日本大城市的儿童保育资源短缺。安倍政府正努力结束一些孩子因为没有名额而被幼儿园拒之门外的状况，将在2018年3月之前新建40万所幼儿园。政府还在设法放宽限制外国保姆和勤杂工的移民规定。
Mr. Abe has set ambitious goals. He has revived a largely forgotten, decade-old target of having women occupy 30 percent of “supervisory positions” in business and government by 2020. He is also pressuring — though not requiring — stock-market-listed companies to appoint at least one woman to their boards.
安倍晋三设定了雄心勃勃的目标。他重提了一个10年前被提出的、基本上已经被遗忘的目标，那就是在2020年前，企业和政府内30%的“管理岗位”应该由女性担任。他还在劝说——而不是要求——上市公司任命至少一名女性董事。
But Mr. Abe is mainly leaving businesses to set their own course, and there is a long way to go. Over 80 percent of Japan’s more than 3,600 public companies have no female directors.
不过，安倍晋三基本上把制定计划的任务留给了企业自己，因此未来还有很长的路要走。在日本的逾3600家上市公司中，超过80%没有女性董事。
Some businesses have been proactive, by breaking down the strict division between job tracks in Japan that limits opportunities for clerical and other “noncareer” staff, a disproportionately female group. KDDI, a mobile phone company, has started assigning two deputies — one female and one male — to each senior executive, an idea it borrowed from IBM.
一些企业表现得十分积极主动，它们打破了日本不同岗位间的严格壁垒，这些壁垒限制了文员和其他职业发展空间不大的劳动者所拥有的机会，而这个群体中多数是女性。移动运营商KDDI已经开始为每位高管指派两名副手，男性和女性各一名，这个想法是从IBM借鉴过来的。
The company is also offering more flexibility. Kaname Utsumi, 43, the manager of a team of 15 in KDDI’s human resources department, says she was the first woman of her level to return to a management job after maternity leave, three years ago.
这家企业还在提供更大的灵活性。43岁的内海嘉名芽（Kaname Utsumi，音译）在KDDI的人力资源部管理着15人的团队，她说，三年前，在与她在同一级别的女性中，她是第一个休完产假仍然能继续担任管理岗位的人。