Angelina Jolie Pitt, the Oscar-winning actress and special envoy for the United Nations refugee agency, has taken on a new role: university professor.
身为奥斯卡得主和联合国难民署特使的女演员安吉丽娜·朱莉·皮特(Angelina Jolie Pitt)，如今又有了一个新身份：大学教授。
Ms. Jolie Pitt will join the London School of Economics’ Center for Women, Peace and Security as one of four visiting professors in a new master’s program that starts taking applicants in the fall, according to a statement released on Monday by the university, one of Britain’s most renowned academic institutions. Ms. Jolie’s work there will include delivering guest lectures and taking part in workshops as a “visiting professor in practice.”
英国久负盛名的学术机构伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)周一发声明称，朱莉·皮特将加盟该校的妇女、和平与安全中心(Center for Women, Peace and Security)，作为四名客座教授之一参与一项将于今秋招生的全新硕士专业课程。她的工作包括进行客座讲学，并以“业界客座教授”的身份参加研讨会。
Ms. Jolie Pitt was appointed along with William Hague, with whom she founded the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative in 2012, when Mr. Hague was the British foreign secretary.
与朱莉·皮特一同受聘的还有威廉·黑格(William Hague)。在2012年，她和时任英国外交大臣的黑格共同创办了“防止冲突中的性暴力计划”(Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative)。
“I am very encouraged by the creation of this master’s program,” Ms. Jolie Pitt said in the statement. “I hope other academic institutions will follow this example, as it is vital that we broaden the discussion on how to advance women’s rights and end impunity for crimes that disproportionately affect women, such as sexual violence in conflict.”
“这一硕士课程的开办让我深受鼓舞，”朱莉·皮特在声明中表示。“我希望其他学术机构也能效仿，因为在更大范围内讨论如何推进女性权益，如何让冲突中的性暴力等严重伤害女性的罪行不被追责的现象走向终结，是至关重要的。”
Ms. Jolie Pitt, who is married to the actor Brad Pitt and has six children, said she was looking forward to sharing her experiences working with governments and the United Nations. She has been involved in humanitarian work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for more than a decade, taking on some of the most difficult issues related to conflict, refugees, women and sexual violence, as a goodwill ambassador and a special envoy.
朱莉·皮特已与男演员布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)成婚，是六个孩子的母亲。她说自己一直期待分享与各国政府及联合国合作的经验。十多年来，她一直以亲善大使和特使的身份，与联合国难民事务高级专员一同从事人道主义工作，应对与冲突、难民、女性及性暴力相关的一些极为困难的议题。
Her duties have been interspersed with her acting roles in films like “Wanted,” “Salt,” “Maleficent” and “Kung Fu Panda,” among others, and her directing work in “By the Sea,” “Unbroken” and “In the Land of Blood and Honey.” She won an Academy Award for best supporting actress for “Girl, Interrupted” (1999). Her activities have fostered a surreal dichotomy in her public persona, as she is photographed on red carpets and in refugee camps.
与此同时，她还出演了《通缉令》(Wanted)、《特工绍特》(Salt)、《沉睡魔咒》(Maleficent)、《功夫熊猫》(Kung Fu Panda)等电影，执导了《海边》(By the Sea)、《坚不可摧》(Unbroken)和《血与蜜之地》(In the Land of Blood and Honey)，并凭借在1999年的《移魂女郎》(Girl, Interrupted)中的表现赢得了奥斯卡最佳女配角奖。她既出现在红毯上，又出没于难民营里，所作所为让她的公众形象呈现出超现实的两面性。
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times last year, Ms. Jolie Pitt described a visit to a refugee camp in the Dohuk Province of Iraq. “For many years I have visited camps, and every time, I sit in a tent and hear stories. I try my best to give support,” she wrote. “On this trip I was speechless.
去年，朱莉·皮特在《纽约时报》(The New York Times )的一篇观点文章中描述了自己探访伊拉克杜胡克省的一座难民营的经历。“这些年来，我探访过很多难民营，每一次我都坐在帐篷里，聆听他们的故事。然后尽我所能地向他们提供支持，”她写道。“但是这一次，我说不出话来。”
“What do you say to a mother with tears streaming down her face who says her daughter is in the hands of the Islamic State, or ISIS, and that she wishes she were there, too?”
“当一位母亲泪流满面地说，她女儿落入了伊斯兰国（Islamic State，或称ISIS）之手，她希望被抓的是自己时，你能说些什么呢？”
She has recently waded into the global migrant crisis, saying in London last week that she has been “very disheartened” by the response of the United States and that she feared countries would adopt increasingly isolationist policies, The Associated Press reported. She said worries about uncontrolled immigration had given a “false air of legitimacy to those who promote politics of fear and separation.”
最近她又开始关注全球移民危机。据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，她上周在伦敦表示，她对美国的反应“非常灰心”，担心很多国家会采取越来越具孤立主义色彩的政策。她说，对移民问题失控的担忧，“让推行恐惧和隔离政治的那些人得到一种错误的合理性。”
In its statement on Monday, the London School of Economics gave no details about Ms. Jolie’s specific teaching duties or how often she would be on campus. It said the new master’s program included courses titled “Women, Peace and Security,” “Gender and Militarization,” and “Gender and Human Rights.” Students will conduct research on preventing sexual violence in conflicts and on women, peace and security.
伦敦政经学院在周一的声明中没有介绍与朱莉·皮特的具体授课职责有关的细节，也没有谈及她日后出现在校园里的频率。校方表示，新开办的这一硕士专业的课程包括《女性、和平与安全》，《性别与军事化》，《性别与人权》等科目。学生将研究防止冲突中的性暴力，以及女性、和平与安全等课题。
The other two visiting professors were Jane Connors, an Amnesty International advocacy director; and Madeleine Rees, the secretary general of the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom.
另外两位客座教授分别是国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)的倡导主管简·康纳斯(Jane Connors)和国际女性和平自由联盟(Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom)的秘书长马德琳·里斯(Madeleine Rees)。
Critics of some of the summit meetings organized by the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative have said they cost more to conduct than Britain’s government commits in spending to prosecute rape in conflict zones, The Guardian reported in 2015.
《卫报》(The Guardian)曾在2015年报道，批评者指出，“防止冲突中的性暴力计划”召开一些峰会的开支，比英国政府承诺的就战区强奸案提起诉讼的开支还要高。
When she was named a goodwill ambassador for UNHCR in 2001, Ms. Jolie said she wanted to get involved because it was impossible to ignore the fact that millions of people were suffering worldwide.
朱莉·皮特在2001年被任命为联合国难民署亲善大使时表示，她之所以想要参与进来，是因为无法忽视世界各地有无数人正在苦难中挣扎这一事实。
“I honestly want to help,” she said. “I don’t believe I feel differently from other people. I think we all want justice and equality, a chance for a life with meaning.”
“我真心诚意地想要提供帮助，”她说。“我相信我和其他人的感受没有什么不同。我认为我们都想要正义和平等，都想要有机会去过有意义的生活。”