TOKYO — In a dramatic change that could position Japan’s military to play a more active role in Asia, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced a reinterpretation of the country’s pacifist Constitution to allow Japanese armed forces to aid friendly nations under attack.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)宣布了对该国和平宪法的新解释，允许日本武装部队援助受到攻击的友好国家。这一剧变可能会让日本军队在亚洲扮演更为活跃的角色。
The decision by Mr. Abe’s cabinet changes the long-held reading of the Constitution that had strictly limited Japan’s forces to acting in the country’s defense. The new interpretation will allow Japan to use its large and technologically advanced military in ways that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago, such as coming to the aid of an American ship under fire or shooting down a ballistic missile aimed at the United States.
安倍晋三内阁做出的这一决定改变了长期以来对日本宪法的解读。此前，日本宪法严格限定，日本的武装部队只能保卫自己的国家。新解释将允许日本以几年前尚不可想象的方式，动用该国规模庞大且技术先进的军队，如援助受到攻击的美国船只或拦截射向美国的弹道导弹。
The announcement is likely to feed already-high tensions in Asia, where China is mounting an increasingly serious challenge to the regional dominance of the United States and its allies, including Japan, and making assertive claims to vast areas of two strategically important seas.
此番声明可能会加剧亚洲本已紧张的局势。在亚洲，中国正在对美国和日本等盟友的地区主导地位发起日益严重的挑战，在两个具有重要战略意义的海域，对大片地区咄咄逼人地提出主权要求。
Although the region is not yet in an outright arms race, Richard J. Samuels, director of the Center for International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said Japan’s move showed that it and other countries were having to think more seriously about their own security than ever before.
尽管该地区尚未出现全面的军备竞赛，但麻省理工学院国际问题研究中心(Center for International Studies)主任理查德·J·塞缪尔斯(Richard J. Samuels)表示，日本此举表明，日本和其他国家不得不比以往任何时候都更严肃地考虑自己的安全。
“This is a recognition among these nations that U.S. capabilities are not what they were,” Dr. Samuels said. “They are looking for a way to keep the U.S. in the neighborhood while also reaching out to each other in new ways.” The hawkish Mr. Abe had sought even broader leeway for his nation’s military, but he was forced to compromise amid resistance from both his governing Liberal Democratic Party and its coalition partner, a small Buddhist party. In a sign of how divisive the change could be among voters, some 10,000 demonstrators gathered in front of the prime minister’s residence the past two nights to protest noisily against it.
“这些国家意识到，美国的实力今不如昔，”塞缪尔斯博士说。“它们正在想办法既让美国留在该地区，同时又能以新的方式向彼此靠近。”鹰派的安倍晋三原来还想让日本军队有更大的自由空间，但由于受到自己领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)，以及执政伙伴、一个小型佛教政党的反对，他被迫妥协。过去两天晚上，约1万名示威者聚集在首相官邸前，大声抗议这一转变，显示出此举在选民中造成的分歧。
Still, most Japanese seemed to at least tentatively accept the reinterpretation — a sign, analysts said, of the growing anxiety here over China’s rising military might and increasingly forceful claims to disputed islands now controlled by Japan. They said these fears of China had made the public more willing to accept the more assertive security stance espoused by Mr. Abe, who has long called for Japan to shed its postwar passivity and become a “normal” nation.
然而，大部分日本人似乎至少暂时接受了新解释。分析人士称，这个迹象表明，中国日渐崛起的军事实力，以及对争议岛屿愈发强势的领土主张，令日本人感到越发焦虑。上述争议岛屿现在由日本实际控制。他们表示，对中国的恐惧，使民众更愿意接受安倍晋三更强势的安全立场。长期以来，安倍晋三一直呼吁日本摒弃战后的被动，成为一个“正常”国家。
“The growing pressure from China has changed the political debate within Japan,” said Kazuhisa Kawakami, a political expert at Meiji Gakuin University in Tokyo. “For the first time, Japanese are finding that they have to start thinking realistically about defending their own country.”
“来自中国的压力越来越大，改变了日本国内的政治辩论，”东京明治学院大学(Meiji Gakuin University)的政治问题专家川上和久(Kazuhisa Kawakami)说。“日本人第一次发现，自己不得不开始现实地考虑保卫国家这件事。”
The new policy cannot go into effect until at least this autumn, because Parliament must still clear legal barriers to broader military action by revising more than a dozen laws, experts and lawmakers said. However, with Mr. Abe’s governing coalition enjoying a comfortable majority in both houses, the change seems all but certain to become reality.
专家和议员表示，新政策至少要到今年秋天才能生效，因为国会还必须修订十几项法律，才能为更大规模的军事行动清除法律障碍。然而，在安倍晋三领导的执政联盟在两院都稳坐多数席位的情况下，这一变化几乎肯定会成为现实。
Still, even under the new policy, the Japanese military, called the Self-Defense Forces, will face strict limits that will allow it to act only when there is a “clear danger” to Japan or its people, and to use only “the minimum level of force necessary,” according to the text of the cabinet decision.
然而，即便按照新政策，名为自卫队(Self-Defense Forces)的日本武装军队也仍会面临严格的限制。内阁决议的文本显示，只有当日本或其国民面临“明确危险”时，自卫队才能采取行动，而且只能动用“最低水平的必要武力”。
In a speech broadcast live on national television, Mr. Abe sought to allay opponents’ concerns by stating that the new policy would not lead Japan down a slippery slope by dragging it into distant, American-led wars. But he also said it would help Japan forge closer ties with the United States, which has 50,000 military personnel stationed in the country under a Cold War-era security treaty that obligates it to come to Japan’s defense.
在国家电视台直播的一场演讲中，安倍晋三试图安抚反对者的担忧。他说，新政策不会把日本拖进泥潭，陷入美国在遥远的地方发动的战争。不过他也说，新政策有助于促进日美缔结更紧密的关系，根据冷战时期签订的安保条约，美国在日本驻有5万名军事人员，该条约规定，美方有义务保卫日本。
“This is not going to change Japan into a country that wages wars,” Mr. Abe said. “The Self-Defense Forces will absolutely not go into combat in wars like the gulf war and Iraq.”
安倍晋三表示，“此次变革不会把日本变成一个发动战争的国家。自卫队绝对不会参加海湾和伊拉克那样的战争。”
Rather, he said, the change was necessary for Japan to act more like a full-fledged ally of the United States, which some say it must do as it seeks a clearer show of American support in its territorial dispute with China.
他说，更准确地说，为了表现得更像美国的得力盟友，日本有必要做出这种改变。一些人表示，由于日本寻求美国在中日领土争端中更明确地表达支持，所以必须要这样做。
“A strengthened Japan-United States alliance is a force of deterrence that contributes to the peace of Japan and this region,” Mr. Abe said. He also said the change would allow Japan to participate more fully in United Nations peacekeeping operations, such as by allowing Japanese troops to come to the aid of peacekeepers under attack.
安倍晋三说，“强化的日美同盟是一股威慑力，有助于维护日本以及整个地区的和平。”他还说，此番政策变动能让日本更充分地参与联合国(United Nations)的维和行动，例如，新政策可以允许日本自卫队前去援助受到袭击的维和部队。
American officials have supported the new policy, saying they welcome Japan’s shouldering more of the security burden in the Asia-Pacific region at a time when the United States faces new problems in the Middle East and budget cuts at home.
美国官员对新政策表示支持。他们表示，当前美国在中东正面临新的问题，国内则在削减预算，此时他们欢迎日本在亚太地区承担更多安全责任。
However, the change has drawn mixed reactions in Asia. While the president of the Philippines said in Tokyo last week that he supported Japan’s doing more to help offset China’s increasingly assertive claims in the region, China and South Korea have said a rearmed Japan raises bitter memories of Japan’s brutal early-20th-century march through Asia.
然而，此次变动在亚洲引发了复杂的反应。上周，菲律宾总统在东京表示，他支持日本采取更多行动，帮助冲抵中国在区域内提出的日益强硬的领土主张。中国和韩国则表示，重整军备的日本勾起了他们对20世纪上半叶，日本野蛮侵略亚洲各国的惨痛记忆。
A commentary by China’s state-run Xinhua news service warned that Mr. Abe was “dallying with the specter of war” by trying to remilitarize Japan.
中国官方通讯社新华社在一篇评论文章中警告称，安倍晋三试图重新武装日本是在“把玩战争的幽灵”。
While Mr. Abe focused his comments on closer ties with the United States, Japan’s postwar protector, analysts said the new policy could also make it easier for Japan to seek new military alliances with other nations, including the Philippines and Vietnam, which have similar territorial disputes with China.
尽管安倍晋三的评论重点强调与日本战后的保护者美国建立更紧密的关系，但是分析人士称，新政策也让日本更容易寻求与其他国家建立新的军事同盟，包括和中国有类似领土争端的菲律宾和越南。
Analysts also said that the announcement on Tuesday capped a series of security-related changes by the Abe government that had already gone a long way in freeing Japan to play a larger military role in the region. These changes included lifting a self-imposed ban on selling weapons abroad, starting Japan’s first military aid to foreign countries since the end of World War II, and improving its ability to respond to a security crisis by creating a National Security Council, modeled on the American equivalent.
分析人士还表示，周二的声明为安倍政府展开的一系列涉及安全的变革举措划上了句号。这些举措意在向日本给予更大的自由，在本地区发挥更重要的军事作用，对此安倍政府努力已久。这些变革包括解除日本自行施加的对外销售武器的禁令，启动日本自二战结束后的首次对外军事援助，以及参照美国类似机构，设立国家安全保障会议，以提高安全危机应对能力。
“With not just collective self-defense but everything else that Abe has done, Japan is experiencing a security renaissance,” said Andrew L. Oros, director of international studies at Washington College in Chestertown, Md. “What is remarkable is not that things are changing, but that they are changing with so little fanfare. Japan is finally getting past old taboos to face new realities.”
马里兰州切斯特敦的华盛顿学院(Washington College)国际研究主任安德鲁·L·奥罗斯(Andrew L. Oros)说，“不仅仅是解禁集体自卫权，安倍晋三所做的其他所有事情都表明，日本的国家安全正在复兴。值得一提的不是情况正在发生改变，而是这些改变发生得平静。日本终于突破了过去的禁忌，直面新现实了。”