TOKYO — Japan’s prime minister finished a three-nation tour of Africa on Monday in which he offered aid and development projects potentially worth billions of dollars to help his nation catch up with China’s enormous footprint on the continent.
东京——本周一，日本首相出访非洲三国的行程画上了句号，他在此行中提供了价值可达数十亿美元的援助和发展项目，以此帮助日本追赶中国在非洲大陆留下的深刻印迹。
The prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has said he wants to expand Japan’s presence in Africa, and tap a region that can serve as both a source of minerals and energy for Japan’s industrial economy and a new market for Japanese goods.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)表示，他希望扩大日本在非洲的影响，开发这个既能为日本的工业经济提供矿产资源、又能成为日本商品的新市场的地区。
Mr. Abe has made Africa one of the centerpieces of a diplomatic push to complement his domestic growth policies, known as Abenomics, which aim to end Japan’s long economic decline.
安倍晋三已把非洲列为自己外交攻势的核心目标之一，以此襄助他在国内推出的增长政策，该政策被称为“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)，旨在结束日本长期的经济衰退局面。
By placing more emphasis on Africa, Mr. Abe is throwing Japan into a scramble for resources there that also involves companies from China, the United States and other Western countries. Japan is particularly keen to find new sources of so-called rare earths and metals, raw material used in electronics and cellphones that it currently imports mostly from China.
由于把更多关注投向非洲，安倍晋三正在把日本推入非洲的资源争夺斗争，参与斗争的还有中国、美国和西方其他国家的企业。日本对寻找所谓的稀土金属新资源尤为热切，这是电子产品和手机使用的原料。目前，日本主要是从中国进口这些原料。
But Japan also finds itself lagging far behind its rival China, which has been investing heavily in Africa for a decade. As if to underscore that great rivalry, at the same time that Mr. Abe was in Africa, China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, was on a four-nation visit to the region.
然而，日本同时发现，自己已经远远落后于竞争对手中国，后者十年来一直在非洲大举投资。安倍晋三访问非洲的时候，中国外交部长王毅也开始了非洲四国的访问行程，这样的巧合似乎是为了突显这场激烈的竞争。
Japanese officials have said that while they cannot match the $75 billion in development aid that China has poured into Africa since 2000, they hope to close the gap in other ways. One is to use Japanese aid to train African engineers and technicians, in order to differentiate Japanese efforts from Chinese projects that have been criticized for employing mainly Chinese workers while offering few jobs to Africans.
日本官员曾表示，中国自2000年以来为非洲提供了750亿美元（约合4531亿元人民币）的发展援助资金，日本虽然无法达到中国的援助水平，但却希望通过其他的方式来缩小差距。方式之一是利用日本的援助训练非洲的工程师和技术人员，以便将日本的支援举措与中国的项目区分开来。中国的项目主要雇佣中国工人，提供给非洲人的工作机会很少，由此受到了批评。
The visit also brought an unusual amount of showmanship to Japan’s often drab style of diplomacy. On Friday, Mr. Abe traded jokes and even exchanged soccer jerseys with the president of Ivory Coast, Alassane Ouattara. The next day, Mr. Abe attended a tournament of the Japanese sport of judo in Abidjan.
此次访问还改变了日本一贯的单调外交风格，展示了很多技巧。周五，安倍晋三与他人互开玩笑，甚至与科特迪瓦总统阿拉萨内·瓦塔拉(Alassane Ouattara)交换了球衣。次日，安倍晋三还观看了在阿比让举行的柔道大赛。