Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan is planning to sit down with Donald J. Trump in New York on Thursday, in what would be the president-elect’s first meeting with a foreign leader since his election.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)计划周四与唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)举行座谈会。这将是这位侯任总统自选举之后首次与外国领导人会面。
Why are they meeting?
他们为什么要会面？
Mr. Abe wants to find out how serious Mr. Trump was during his campaign when he repeatedly criticized Japan on trade issues and for not paying more of the cost of its own defense.
安倍想弄清楚，特朗普在竞选期间反复就贸易问题指责日本，批评它不为自己的防务问题支付更多费用，这在多大程度上是认真的。
And since the Japanese establishment was expecting Hillary Clinton to win the presidency, Mr. Abe wants to assure Mr. Trump that he is willing and eager to work with him.
由于此前日本建制派一直预测希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)会赢得选举，安倍也想向特朗普保证，他愿意并渴望与之合作。
What is Mr. Abe most worried about?
安倍最大的担心是什么？
The prime minister is concerned about Mr. Trump’s commitment to protecting Japan.
这位首相对特朗普保护日本的意愿不强感到担忧。
The United States is Japan’s most important ally, and is legally obligated to defend it against attack. There are around 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan.
美国是日本最重要的盟友，在法律上有义务保护它免受袭击。目前有大约5万人的美国军队驻扎在日本。
During the campaign, President-elect Trump suggested he might withdraw American troops.
侯任总统特朗普在竞选期间曾表示，他可能会撤回这些美国部队。
As president, could he do that?
作为总统，他能那么做吗？
Not without resistance from members of Congress, officials at the State Department, diplomats and military advisers. The United States-Japan alliance has been in place since the end of World War II, and has a lot of backing on both sides of the Pacific Ocean.
肯定会遭到国会议员、国务院官员、外交官和军事顾问的反对。美日联盟自“二战”结束以来一直存在，而且在太平洋两岸获得很多支持。
Can Japan pay the United States more for defense?
日本可以为防务问题给美国支付更多资金吗？
Maybe. There are signs that Japan might be willing to pay or do more, but many experts contend American troops are not only defending Japan but the United States’ own interests in Asia.
或许。有迹象显示，日本可能愿意支付更多或做得更多，但许多专家认为，美国部队不只是在保障日本的安全，也是在维护美国自己在亚洲的利益。
The Pentagon is budgeted to spend about $5.5 billion to support troops and bases on Okinawa and elsewhere around Japan this year. Japan is set to spend an additional $1.8 billion to support the bases, in addition to at least $4 billion on related expenses, including compensation for the communities that host the bases and funds for relocating American troops.
根据五角大楼的预算，今年用于维持在冲绳和日本其他地方的美国部队和基地的开支约为55亿美元。日本也计划掏出18亿美元支持这些基地，另外还会花费至少40亿美元用于相关的支出，包括给容纳这些基地的社区提供补偿，以及美军重新安置的费用。
Under its Constitution, which was written by American occupying forces after World War II, Japan can keep an army for defensive purposes. But Mr. Abe has said he wants to revise the Constitution and expand the military. In August, his government requested the latest in a series of increases in military spending.
依照“二战”后占领日本的美军制定的该国宪法，日本可以保持一支用于防御的军队。但安倍已经表示，希望可以修改宪法，扩充军队。今年8月，他的政府再次要求增加军事开支。
Would Japan pursue nuclear weapons?
日本会谋求拥有核武器吗？
Japan has committed to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and Mr. Abe will probably remind Mr. Trump of that.
日本已经承诺遵守《核不扩散条约》(Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty)。安倍可能会提醒特朗普这一点。
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump decried the cost of providing a so-called nuclear umbrella to allies such as Japan and South Korea that do not have their own nuclear arms. In March, Mr. Trump told The New York Times that he was open to those countries building their own nuclear arsenals, but on Twitter this week he denied having said so.
在竞选过程中，特朗普曾公开反对美国花钱给日本和韩国等没有核武器的盟友提供所谓的核保护伞。今年3月，特朗普告诉《纽约时报》，他不反对这些国家建自己的核武库，但本周他又在Twitter上否认自己曾那么讲过。
Mr. Abe has reaffirmed his country’s commitment not to develop atomic weapons. Any move to do so would face severe public opposition in Japan, the only country that has suffered a nuclear attack.
安倍重申了日本不会发展原子武器的承诺。在这个全世界唯一曾受到过核武器袭击的国家，任何想要这么做的举动都会遭到公众的激烈反对。
Will Mr. Abe press his case on trade and the Trans-Pacific Partnership?
安倍会在贸易和跨太平洋伙伴关系的问题上力陈他的立场吗？
He has been one of the biggest enthusiasts for the Trans-Pacific Partnership — or TPP, as it is known — though Japan was the last of a dozen Pacific Rim countries to join the sweeping trade pact. Mr. Trump repeatedly criticized the TPP during the presidential campaign.
尽管在加入这个一揽子贸易协定的12个泛亚太国家中，日本是最后一个，但安倍是对《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）最热心的人之一。而特朗普曾在总统竞选期间多次批评TPP。
Mr. Abe made politically painful concessions on agricultural imports to close the deal and get Japanese manufacturers tariff-free access to export markets in the United States and elsewhere. The trade partnership could bolster the limp economic growth rate in his country and serve as a counterweight to China, the region’s fast-rising superpower.
为了达成协议，令日本制造商能在出口美国和其他市场时享受免关税待遇，安倍在农业进口上做出了在政治上十分艰难的让步。贸易伙伴关系可以拉高日本疲软的经济增长率，对在该地区迅速崛起的超级大国——中国起到制衡作用。
With Mr. Trump’s election, isn’t TPP dead?
随着特朗普的当选，TPP会完吗？
Mr. Abe acknowledged after Mr. Trump’s victory that the Trans-Pacific Partnership was in a “very difficult situation.” But his government still plans to have Parliament ratify the agreement, and he has not given up on selling it to Mr. Trump.
安倍承认，在特朗普获胜后，《跨太平洋伙伴关系协定》“处境非常艰难”。但他的政府依然计划让国会批准该协议，他还没有放弃向特朗普推销该协议。
Mr. Abe may also seek to soften Mr. Trump’s angry campaign stance, in which he accused Japan of crushing the United States on trade, and manipulating its currency to gain an economic advantage.
安倍可能也会试图软化特朗普在竞选期间的激烈态度——特朗普曾指责日本在贸易问题上欺压美国，还指责它操纵自己的货币，以获得经济上的优势。
Mr. Trump says he’s for free trade in principle, but wants a “better deal” for the United States. What that means, for now, remains a mystery.
特朗普表示，他在原则上支持自由贸易，但希望能争取到对美国“更有利的协议”。这到底意味着什么，目前仍是个谜。