TOKYO — Brushing past angry street protests and apocalyptic editorials in leading newspapers, Japan’s conservative prime minister, Shinzo Abe, appears set to achieve one of the first items on his legislative agenda to roll back his nation’s postwar pacifism: passing a national secrets law.
东京——虽然出现了愤怒的街头抗议，几家大报也在社论中发出了预警，但日本保守派首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)似乎执意要通过一项国家保密法，这是他终结日本战后和平主义的立法议程上最优先的项目之一。
The secrecy bill, which sped through the lower house of Parliament on Tuesday and is expected to pass the upper house soon, is considered an initial step in Mr. Abe’s efforts to turn Japan into what some here call a more “normal” nation, with fewer restrictions on its ability to protect itself and able to assume a greater regional role.
这项秘密法案周二在国会下院迅速通过，预计很快将在上院通过。各界认为这是安倍晋三把日本变成一个所谓更“正常”国家的第一步行动，它减少了日本在自卫以及扮演更重要的地区角色方面的限制。
The measure, along with the creation of an American-style National Security Council approved this week, would strengthen the prime minister’s hand in a crisis.
这个法案，以及本周获准建立的一个美国式的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)，将让首相在危机出现时拥有更大控制权。
Mr. Abe has said that tighter controls of state secrets were needed to plug holes in Japan’s protection of information and, most important, to persuade the United States to share more of its sensitive military intelligence. With China’s rise and increasing assertiveness, Mr. Abe has been leading Japan to become a more full-fledged military ally of the United States.
安倍晋三说，日本需要实施更严格的国家秘密控制措施，一方面是为了堵住日本信息保护的漏洞，最重要的是说服美国分享更多敏感的军事情报。随着中国的崛起以及日益增长的自信，安倍晋三正在领导日本转变成美国一个更加成熟的军事盟友。
But the secrecy bill has quickly become a lightning rod for opponents, many in the media and universities, who fear that it gives too much discretion to the nation’s powerful bureaucrats to decide what is a state secret and allows a famously opaque government to provide even less information to the public. Many have warned that the bill could lead to abuses of power by the government, and some critics have gone so far as to compare it to much more draconian prewar laws that placed severe restrictions on speech, and ultimately allowed the military to drag Japan into World War II.
但对于安倍晋三的反对者来说，秘密法已迅速成为了一枚引雷针。日本传媒界和大学里有很多这样的反对者，他们担心这部法律让大权在握的日本官员在决定什么属于国家机密时有太多的自由裁量权，同时也让以不透明著称的日本政府进一步减少提供给公众的信息。很多人警告说，该法案可能导致政府滥用权力，一些批评者甚至还把它同严苛得多的日本战前法律相提并论，后者曾严格限制言论自由，最终放任军方将日本拖入二战之中。
“Japan doesn’t have the strong tradition of freedom of speech, as our recent history shows,” said Yasuhiko Tajima, a professor of media law at Sophia University in Tokyo. “Allowing bureaucrats to declare whatever they want to be state secrets would make us no different than dictatorships like North Korea and China.”
“从现代史来看，日本没有很强的言论自由的传统。”东京上智大学(Sophia University)传媒法教授田岛泰彦(Yasuhiko Tajima)说。“允许官员们任意将信息宣布为国家秘密，这会让我们和朝鲜和中国的独裁统治没有什么不同。”
One of the biggest criticisms of the bill is that its definition of secrets is too vague and broad. The current wording gives the heads of government agencies the power to declare information off limits if it touches on such sensitive national security areas as diplomacy, defense and antiterrorism policy. Those found guilty of leaking these secrets could face up to 10 years in prison, far longer than under Japan’s current laws.
这个法案所收到的其中一个最严重的批评是，秘密的定义过于模糊和宽泛。目前的措辞让政府机构负责人拥有了这样的权力：如果某些信息涉及敏感的国家安全领域，比如外交、国防和反恐政策，就可以宣布它列入禁区。如果有人因为泄露这些秘密被定罪，可能会面临长达10年的牢狱，远远超过日本现行法律的量刑。
The secrecy bill was submitted in tandem with the bill to create a National Security Council that Parliament approved this week.
秘密法是和建立国家安全委员会的法案一起提交的，后者本周获得了国会的批准。
Political analysts say the twin measures are the first steps in a legislative agenda that could eventually see Mr. Abe try to fulfill his long-held goal of revising his nation’s antiwar Constitution to allow for a fully developed military instead of purely defensive forces — still a controversial idea in Japan.
政治分析人士说，这种双管齐下的做法，是一个立法议程的第一步，安倍晋三可能通过这个议程来实现他长期坚持的目标：修改日本的反战宪法，以便建立一支全方位的军事力量，而不是单纯的防御部队。在日本，这仍然是一个存在争议的观点。
“This legal framework is needed for the proper functioning of a new N.S.C. that can serve as a command center for national security strategy,” said an editorial last month in the conservative Yomiuri Shimbun, a newspaper that has long served as a mouthpiece for Mr. Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party.
“作为国家安全战略的一个指挥中心，新的国家安全委员会想要正常运作起来，就需要有这个法律框架。”上个月，保守派的《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri Shimbun)在一篇社论中写道，该报纸长期以来都是安倍晋三所在的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)的喉舌。
Taking advantage of the party’s control of both houses of Parliament, Mr. Abe, who had promised to end the country’s long political paralysis, sped the secrecy bill through the lower house in less than three weeks, and then into the upper house.
趁着自民党在国会两院拥有控制权，曾承诺结束日本长期政治瘫痪的安倍晋三，在不到三周的时间内，就在下院迅速通过了秘密法案，让它进入了上院。
The speed, however, has left opponents feeling steamrollered, feeding fears that the secrecy bill poses a threat to Japanese democracy and inspiring bitter complaints that Mr. Abe was breaking from Japan’s tradition of building political consensus for major changes.
不过，这种速度不仅让反对者感到被压制，还加深了对秘密法威胁日本民主制度的担忧，并引发了一些人的强烈不满，他们认为，安倍晋三违背了日本为重大变革建立政治共识的传统。
“We saw the iron fist of the Abe cabinet under its velvet glove,” said Banri Kaieda, the leader of Japan’s largest opposition, the Democratic Party, after Tuesday’s secrecy bill vote.
周二对秘密法举行投票之后，日本最大的反对党民主党(Democratic Party)领袖海江田万里(Banri Kaieda)说，“我们看到了安倍内阁藏在天鹅绒手套里的铁拳。”
Some of the most vocal concerns were raised by residents of the region around the devastated Fukushima nuclear plant. Tamotsu Baba, the mayor of the evacuated town of Namie, noted at a hearing Monday — the only public hearing on the bill — that the government’s failure to release forecasts of the direction of radioactive releases during the accident two years ago allowed his townspeople to unknowingly flee into the plume. He warned that the new law would strengthen the government’s demonstrated tendency to keep vital information secret in a time of crisis.
受到破坏的福岛核电站附近地区的一些居民直言不讳地表达了担忧。被疏散的浪江町町长马场保（Tamotsu Baba，音译）周一在听证会——关于这一法案的唯一一场听证会上指出，两年前事故发生时，政府没有发布有关放射性物质扩散方向的预报，导致浪江町的居民在不知情的情况下逃进了放射性烟羽地带。他警告说，新的法律将助长政府在危机时刻隐瞒重要信息的一贯做法。
“What is needed is more openness, not less,” Mr. Baba said.
马场保说，“我们需要的是扩大信息公开，而不是减少。”
Many of Japan’s top writers, journalists and academics have also made impassioned pleas against the bill, or at least to urge that it include stronger checks on the bureaucracy’s powers to declare information out of bounds.
日本的许多著名作家、记者和学者也慷慨陈词，反对这一法案，或者至少要求在法案中增加制衡措施，约束官员宣布信息为秘密的权力。
They and others say the bill fails to establish a mechanism for reviewing what is declared secret, noting that Japan also lacks freedom of information laws as robust as those in other democracies like the United States. They also warned that the bill could be used to prosecute not only officials who leak secrets, but journalists or even university researchers who receive them. There is also no clear provision for sharing classified information with elected representatives.
他们和其他一些人都说，这个法案没有建立一个可以审核何为秘密的机制，他们指出，日本还缺少像美国等民主国家那样强大的信息自由法。他们还警告说，这个法案不仅会被用于起诉泄露机密的官员，还会被用来起诉获得机密的记者甚至大学研究人员。此外，法案中也没有对能否与经过推举的代表分享机密信息作出明确规定。
In an editorial last month, the Asahi Shimbun, another large Japanese daily, stated that while it supported the need to protect state secrets, the current bill was “riddled with problems” that would keep voters in the dark.
上个月，日本的另一家大型日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)在一篇社论中写道，尽管该报认同保护国家秘密的必要性，但目前的法案还“存在着大量问题”，会让选民不知就里。
“The bill gives the government a monopoly on information,” the Asahi said, “and places extreme limits on the people’s right to know and inquire, and on the freedom of the press.”
《朝日新闻》写道，“这个法案让政府拥有对信息的垄断，并且对人民的知情权和质询权，以及媒体自由都进行了极端的限制。”
In Parliament this week, Mr. Abe said the bill was needed to help Japan strengthen its management of classified information, something he said the United States has asked Japan to do after scandals here over leaked or mishandled security secrets.
安倍晋三本周在国会上说，日本需要这部法案来加强对机密信息的管理，他说，在一连串有关安全秘密被泄露或不当处理的丑闻之后，美国已对日本提出了这样的要求。
Some experts say critics’ fears are misplaced. They point out that Mr. Abe has agreed to opposition party calls for the creation of an agency to monitor what is declared secret, though that language is not in the bill. They also say that the bill will be limited to sensitive information like military plans or intercepted cellphone messages from terrorists.
一些专家说，批评人士的担忧大可不必。他们指出，安倍晋三已经同意了反对党的呼吁，将建立一个机构来监管机密信息的定义，只不过没有在法案里表述。他们还说，法案的适用范围将限于军事计划或截获的恐怖分子手机短信等敏感信息。
“I think this just brings Japan up to the levels of secrecy management of the United States,” said Yasuo Hasebe, a professor of information law at the University of Tokyo.
东京大学(University of Tokyo)的信息法律教授長谷部恭男(Yasuo Hasebe)说，“我认为这仅仅是把日本带到了美国的信息管理水平。”
But imitating the United States is exactly the problem, many critics say, arguing that Japan should not be passing such a bill at a time when the United States and other nations are pushing for less secrecy from their own governments.
但是许多批评人士说，模仿美国正是问题所在，他们认为，在美国和其他国家正在试图减少政府掌握的秘密之时，日本不应该通过这样一个法案。
“The Snowden disclosures caused a major rethink in the United States,” said Mr. Tajima, the Sophia University professor, referring to the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden.
上智大学教授田岛泰彦提到了前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)，他说，“斯诺登泄密引发了美国国内的重大反思。”
“And now here comes Japan, running in the wrong direction.”
“现在日本则是向着错误的方向跑。”