TOKYO — Voters helped Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan move closer Sunday to securing the lawmaker support he needs to revise a pacifist constitution that has been in place since U.S. occupiers created it in 1947.
东京——周日，在选民的帮助下，日本首相安倍晋三距离获得足够国会议员支持以修改和平宪法的目标更近了一步。该宪法于1947年由占领日本的美军创建，此后一直有效。
Although national election results were incomplete, all major Japanese newspapers reported that the governing coalition and its allies had captured two-thirds of the seats in the upper house of Parliament, the amount required to proceed with the constitutional revision. A final count was likely to be announced Monday morning.
虽然全国选举结果的统计还不完整，日本所有主要报纸都报道称，安倍的联合政府及其盟友已经赢得国会参议院席位的三分之二，达到继续推进修订宪法所需要的国会议员数量。最终的统计结果很可能会在周一上午公布。
Despite a weak economy and divided public opinion on the expanded role for Japan’s military that Abe is seeking, exit polls by NHK, the country’s public broadcaster, indicated that his Liberal Democrats and their allies had again won a commanding majority in the upper house.
尽管日本经济疲软，舆论也对安倍扩大日本军事角色这一目标持分裂态度，日本公共电视台NHK的出口民调仍然表明，安倍的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)及其盟友已经赢得了参议院中举足轻重的多数席位。
“This is the people’s voice letting us firmly move forward,” Abe said. When asked whether he would proceed with a revision of the constitution, he said it had long been the Liberal Democrats’ goal.
“这是人民的声音，让我们坚定地向前迈进，”安倍说。当被问及是否会推进宪法的修订，他说这一直以来都是自民党的目标。
Whether Abe will be able to pursue that ambition — to overturn the constitutional clause that calls for the complete renunciation of war — remains to be seen.
安倍能否实现他的抱负——撤销一项呼吁完全放弃战争的宪法条款——还有待观察。
While the partners in the governing coalition have indicated some support for amendments, different groups have divided opinions on which clauses they want to change. Still, the election outcome is sure to give Abe more leverage.
尽管联合政府的伙伴表示了对修正案的支持，不同的团体间对于具体修改哪一条宪法条款还是存在分歧。不过，这次选举的结果肯定能给安倍带来更多优势。
The results in Japan were achieved without the fiery populist emotions that have fueled the U.S. presidential race or the recent British vote to leave the European Union. Instead, the Japanese election seemed to reflect resignation with the status quo rather than a broad mandate.
与美国总统大选和英国的脱欧公投不同，日本选举并没有伴随着狂热的民粹主义情绪。相反，日本选举似乎更多反映出人们对现状的无能为力，而不是广泛的民意授权。
Voters see few alternatives, with many still feeling stung by what they saw as the opposition Democratic Party’s failure to deliver during its four-year term before Abe came to power in 2012.
选民们没有看到什么其他选择。他们中的很多人仍对于反对党民主党(Democratic Party)及其在安倍2012年上任前的四年任期中的失败而感到失望。
As in previous elections, voter turnout was low. Early estimates put it at just under 55 percent, only slightly higher than results three years ago in the last upper house election.
与以往的选举一样，今年的选民投票率也很低。据初步估计，投票率略低于55％，仅比三年前的参议院选举投票率稍微高出一点。
During the campaign this summer, Abe and other Liberal Democrats kept mostly quiet about their revisionist ambitions, which led opposition party leaders and some news media critics to accuse them of a hidden agenda.
在今年夏天的竞选中，安倍和其他自民党成员并未怎么谈及对修改宪法的抱负，这使得反对党的领导人和一些新闻媒体指责安倍和自民党隐瞒自己的竞选议程。
Abe focused mainly on economic policy — known as Abenomics — and other less contentious issues, like his promise to expand child care and nursing home slots. Although polls have shown that few Japanese believe the economy is thriving, Abe spoke with pride of growth in employment, without mentioning that the rise had been mostly in part-time or contract jobs.
安倍主要关注经济政策——也被称为“安倍经济学”——和其他争议性较小的问题。比如，安倍承诺会扩大儿童看护并增加养老院空位。尽管民调显示，绝大多数日本人不相信日本经济正在繁荣发展，安倍仍然骄傲地提起就业人数的增长，同时对增长主要集中在兼职和合同工的情况闭口不谈。
“Abenomics is not failing,” Abe told a crowd of more than 1,000 at his final campaign stop Saturday evening in Tokyo. “The only choice is to go forward.”
“安倍经济学没有失败，”周六晚上在东京，安倍在竞选的最后一站对1000多名群众说，“唯一的选择是勇往直前。”
The public remains split over constitutional revision. According to exit polls by NHK, about a third of voters said they supported some amendments, while another third said they saw no need to revise the governing document. Previous news media surveys showed even less support for constitutional revision.
公众对修宪仍然持分歧态度。根据NHK一次出口民调显示，约三分之一的投票者表示他们支持部分修改，而另外三分之一的投票者称他们认为没有必要去修改治国文件。之前的新闻媒体调查显示，支持修宪的民众更少一些。
If the governing coalition achieves the two-thirds threshold in Parliament, it is not clear how quickly it could move to change the constitution. The Liberal Democrats have also proposed amendments that could limit free speech deemed dangerous to the public interest and expand emergency powers for the prime minister.
如果执政联盟取得三分之二参议院席位的门槛，多快能实现修宪并不明朗。自民党提议的条款修正还包括：限制被认为是危害公共利益的自由言论，以及扩大首相的紧急权力。
The Liberal Democrats will have to work with their coalition partners to gain consensus on which parts of the governing document to change. Any amendments must also be approved by a majority in a nationwide referendum.
自民党将会与执政联盟的其他成员合作，在修改治国文件哪些条款问题上达成一致。任何修改都必须在全国投票中以多票数通过。
Japanese voters who selected opposition candidates Sunday did so less out of passion than of protest. “I didn’t vote for positive reasons,” said Miu Okada, 30, an office worker in Nakano who said she simply chose a candidate who was not a member of the Liberal Democratic Party or its allies.
周日，给反对党成员投票的日本选民更多的是出于抗议而非热情。“我不是为了什么积极的理由才投票的，”今年30岁，在东京中野区工作的冈田美羽（Miu Okada，音）说道。她表示，自己只是想给既不是自民党成员也不是自民党同盟成员的候选人投票。
Sunday’s election was also the first time that 18- and 19-year-olds had been allowed to vote. Yet many seemed apathetic about their new rights. Minori Hosaka, 18, a computer engineering major at Tokai University walking with a friend in the Akihabara district of Tokyo on the eve of the election, said he was not voting because he had not had time to move his residency from his hometown to Tokyo. Besides, he said, “I am not sure my own single vote can affect anything.”
周日的选举也是18岁和19岁日本公民第一次获得投票权的选举。不过，许多年轻人对他们新获得的权利显得很冷淡。选举前夜，和朋友一起走在日本秋叶原的东海大学计算机工程专业学生、18岁的保坂稔（Minori Hosaka，音）表示，因为没有时间把自己的住处从家乡变更到东京，所以不打算去投票。他还说，“我不确定自己的这一票能有多大的影响。”