HONG KONG — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, the first world leader to meet Donald J. Trump after the election in November, plans to meet with the president in Washington on Friday in the Oval Office. Mr. Abe is then planning to fly to Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla., to play golf with the president.
香港——特朗普在去年11月的选举结束后会晤的首位世界领导人、日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)计划周五在华盛顿的椭圆形办公室同唐纳德·J·特朗普举行会面。然后，安倍晋三将飞往特朗普位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)，和他一起打高尔夫。
Why are they meeting?
他们为什么要会面？
Mr. Abe wants to talk to Mr. Trump about trade and economic issues, which have already been the subject of some critical Twitter postings and remarks from the president.
安倍晋三希望和特朗普讨论贸易和经济问题。特朗普已经在一些批评性推文和表述中有所提及。
Mr. Abe is also eager to pursue a closer personal relationship with Mr. Trump, with whom he shares some ideological leanings, including a resistance to immigration.
安倍晋三还渴望同特朗普建立更亲密的私交。他和特朗普有一些相同的思想倾向，包括反对移民。
What is Abe most worried about?
安倍晋三最担心什么？
With Mr. Trump warning Toyota of a “big border tax” on the company if it built a new plant in Mexico and telling American business leaders that Japan purposely devaluates the yen for economic advantage, Mr. Abe is concerned about how Mr. Trump’s “America First” policies could affect Japanese companies and the country’s broader economy.
特朗普曾警告丰田(Toyota)，如果在墨西哥建新厂，该公司会被课以“高额边境税”。特朗普还对美国的商界领袖表示，日本为了经济优势而故意让日元贬值。在这种情况下，对于特朗普的“美国优先”政策，会对日本的公司和该国的整体经济将产生怎样的影响，安倍晋三对此有所担忧。
Now that Mr. Trump has formally abandoned the Trans-Pacific Partnership multilateral trade deal — on which Mr. Abe expended considerable domestic political capital — Mr. Abe will be looking to sound out Mr. Trump on the possibility of negotiating a future bilateral trade deal between the two countries.
在多边贸易协议“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans-Pacific Partnership)上，安倍晋三耗费了相当大的国内政治资本。由于特朗普已正式退出该协议，安倍晋三会就两国将来达成一项双边贸易协议的可能性试探特朗普。
How will Abe try to persuade Trump that economic alliances with Japan could also benefit the U.S.?
安倍晋三将怎么让特朗普相信，与日本结成经济联盟也有利于美国？
Mr. Abe could point out that Japanese companies invest heavily in the United States. According to the Japan Business Federation, Japanese companies have directly invested more than $400 billion in building factories and other facilities in the United States, creating about 1.7 million jobs for American workers.
安倍晋三可能会指出，日本公司在美国有大量投资。据日本经济团体联合会(Japan Business Federation)称，日本公司已在美国直接投资逾4000亿美元（约合2.8万亿元人民币），用于修建工厂和其他设施，为美国劳动者创造了大约170万个工作岗位。
Mr. Abe has also indicated that Japanese companies or the government could invest in American infrastructure. He told members of Parliament that he wanted to sell Japan’s bullet train technology in the United States so that states could build high-speed rail links and create jobs doing so.
此外，安倍晋三已表示日本公司或政府可能会投资美国的基础设施。他曾对议会议员表示，他想把日本的高铁技术卖给美国，美国各州就能修建高铁线路连接，同时创造工作岗位。
How have Japanese companies reacted to Trump?
日本公司对特朗普做出了什么反应？
After Mr. Trump attacked Toyota on Twitter, the automaker announced that it would invest an additional $10 billion in the United States over the next five years, although it was not clear if that had already been planned.
特朗普在Twitter上攻击丰田后，这家车企宣布将在接下来的五年里再在美国投资100亿美元，但尚不清楚这是不是原来就有的计划。
In December, SoftBank, the telecommunications and internet company, said it would invest $50 billion in the United States, a move that the company’s founder, Masayoshi Son, said would create 50,000 jobs. Again, it seems the investment is not entirely new, but it comes from the Japanese company’s previously announced Vision fund, a $100 billion vehicle for investing in technology companies worldwide.
去年12月，电信和互联网公司软银(SoftBank)宣布将在美国投资500亿美元。该公司的创始人孙正义(Masayoshi Son)表示，此举将创造五万个工作岗位。这似乎也不是全新的投资安排，而是来自该公司之前推出的愿景(Vision)基金。后者是一个拥有1000亿美元的投资工具，用于投资全球科技公司。
Other companies, including Sharp and Fuji Heavy Industries, have also recently talked publicly about existing plans to expand or build new factories in the United States, while Nisshinbo Holdings, an environmental and energy conglomerate that makes auto parts, said it would abandon a plan to build a car parts factory in Mexico.
其他公司，包括夏普(Sharp)和富士重工(Fuji Heavy Industries)，最近公开谈论的都是在美国扩建老厂或建新厂的原定计划，而生产汽车零部件的环境和能源企业集团日清纺控股(Nisshinbo Holdings)则表示将放弃在墨西哥修建一个汽车零部件工厂的计划。
What about the yen?
日元问题呢？
Mr. Abe has said that Mr. Trump’s criticisms about the yen are “undeserved.” It is true that the value of the yen has fallen steadily as Japan’s central bank has injected cash into the economy, a policy that Mr. Abe will most likely try to explain to the president.
安倍晋三称特朗普对日元的指责是“冤枉的”。日元的价值的确持续走低，因为日本央行向经济注入了现金。安倍晋三极有可能会努力向特朗普解释该政策。
Are there security issues the leaders might want to discuss?
两位领导人可能会讨论安全问题吗？
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump assailed Japan for not paying enough for its own defense. But during Defense Secretary Jim Mattis’s recent visit to Japan, he described the country as “a model of cost sharing and burden sharing” and assured leaders there that the United States would stand by its mutual defense treaty and keep American troops on Okinawa and elsewhere in Japan. Mr. Abe will most likely want to underscore that view and ensure that Mr. Trump agrees.
竞选期间，特朗普指责日本为自己的防卫出的钱不够。但美国国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)前不久访问日本时，称日本是“费用分担和责任分担的模范”，并向那里的领导人保证，美国会继续支持其共同防御条约，并保留冲绳和日本其他地方的美国驻军。安倍晋三极可能想强调这一观点，并确保特朗普同意。
Can Japan pay the U.S. more for defense?
日本会增加付给美国的防御费用吗？
Maybe. There are signs that Japan might be willing to pay or do more, but many experts contend that American troops are defending not only Japan but also America’s own interests in Asia.
也许会。多个迹象表明，日本也许愿意出更多的钱或更多的力，但很多专家认为，美国保卫的不仅是日本，还有美国自己在亚洲的利益。
The Pentagon is budgeted to spend about $5.5 billion to support troops and bases on Okinawa and elsewhere around Japan this year. Japan is set to spend $1.8 billion to support the bases, in addition to at least $4 billion on related expenses, including compensation for the communities that host the bases and money for relocating American troops.
五角大楼准备今年花大约55亿美元，维持冲绳和日本其他地方的驻军和基地。日本将出18亿美元支持相关基地，此外还有至少40亿美元的相关费用，包括对基地所在社区的补偿和用于美军搬迁的费用。
Under its Constitution, which was written by American occupying forces after World War II, Japan can keep an army for defensive purposes. But Mr. Abe has said he wants to revise the Constitution and expand the military. In August, his government requested the latest in a series of increases in military spending.
按照占领日本的美军在二战后制定的宪法，日本可保留一支军队用于自卫。但安倍晋三说他希望修改宪法并扩充军队。去年8月，他领导的政府要求增加军事开支，是一系列增加军费行动中的最新动作。