TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said that he wants to start the process of revising Japan’s Constitution as early as next year, a senior lawmaker in his party said Thursday, giving the clearest indication yet that the Japanese leader will seek to change a document that has undergirded the country’s postwar pacifism.
东京——安倍晋三所在党的一名资深国会议员周四表示，首相说希望最早能在明年启动修改日本宪法的过程，这是日本领导人对寻求改变作为该国战后和平主义根基的文件所做出的迄今最明确的表示。
Mr. Abe told Hajime Funada, the leader of a group of Liberal Democratic Party lawmakers, on Wednesday that the best time to begin the difficult political task of amending the Constitution would be after elections for the upper house of Parliament, scheduled for the summer of 2016, Mr. Funada said. Mr. Funada’s comments, which were originally reported by two Japanese newspapers, The Asahi Shimbun and The Sankei Shimbun, were later confirmed by his political secretary, Miki Mori.
日本国会中自民党议员的领导人船田元(Hajime Funada)说，安倍周三对他说，开启修改宪法这项困难的政治任务的最佳时机，是2016年夏天上议院选举之后。船田元的这番话最初由两家日本报纸《朝日新闻》和《产经新闻》报道，后被他的政治秘书森三木(Miki Mori，音译)证实。
When Mr. Funada asked the prime minister whether the best time for starting the revision process would be after the upper house elections, Mr. Abe answered, “That would be common sense,” according to Mr. Mori.
据森三木说，当船田元问总理，启动修宪过程的最佳时机是不是在上议院选举之后时，安倍回答说，“那是常理。”
According to Mr. Mori, Mr. Abe did not specifically say that he wanted to rewrite Article 9 of the Constitution, which bars the use of armed force in resolving international disputes. But earlier this week, Mr. Abe told Parliament that he wanted to make that change, in order to strengthen Japan’s hand in responding to terrorist threats like the Islamic State militant group, which killed two Japanese hostages last month.
森三木表示，安倍没有具体说，他希望修改宪法的第9条，该条款禁止日本在解决国际争端上使用武力。但本周早些时候，安倍曾告诉国会，他希望对该条做修改，以便增强日本应对恐怖主义威胁的能力，比如伊斯兰国激进组织，该组织上个月杀死了两名日本人质。
The top government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, confirmed at a news briefing Thursday that Mr. Abe had met with Mr. Funada and that the two had agreed that more effort was needed to win public support for constitutional change.
政府最高发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)在周四的记者会上证实，安倍晋三曾与船田元见了面，两人一致认为，需要更多的努力来争取公众对修宪的支持。
“The two shared the opinion that time will be needed to promote a fuller debate about this,” Mr. Suga said. “I think this was not meant as a concrete deadline so much as agreeing that more public debate was needed, and that there is more effort to be done to achieve this.”
菅义伟说，“两人的一致意见是，需要时间来推动有关这个问题的一个更全面的讨论。我认为，这与其说是一个具体的截止日期，不如说是就需要更多的公开辩论达成的共识，也是对实现这一目标需要更多努力的共识。”
The Constitution, which also bars Japan from possessing the means of war, was written by American occupiers after World War II to prevent the defeated nation from ever again engaging in militarist expansion. The document proved so popular among Japan’s war-weary people that it has never been amended.
第二次世界大战后由美国占领者起草的日本宪法也禁止日本拥有战争手段，以阻止这个战败国以后再搞军国主义扩张。该宪法被证明如此深受厌倦战争的日本人欢迎，以至于它从未被修订过。
Changing it would require the approval of two-thirds of Parliament, followed by majority support in a public referendum. With its landslide victory in December elections, Mr. Abe’s party is now close to mustering enough seats in the lower house to meet that threshold, but it still falls short in the upper house. A strong showing in next year’s elections could change that.
修改宪法需要得到议会三分之二票数的批准，之后还要在全民公投中得到半数以上的支持。去年12月的选举中，安倍晋三的政党以压倒性多数获胜，该党目前在下议院的席位已接近上述阈值，但在上议院的席位仍不够。在明年的选举中表现出色的话，会改变这种局面。
Changing Article 9 would be sure to anger China as well as South Korea, both of which have frequently accused Japan of failing to come to terms with its past aggression.
修改宪法第九条一定会激怒中国和韩国，这两个国家都经常指责日本未能正视该国过去的侵略行为。
Before becoming prime minister two years ago, Mr. Abe advocated rewriting the Constitution to allow a full-fledged military, saying that the document no longer reflected the realities that a democratic Japan faced in a rapidly changing world. But after taking office, Mr. Abe initially said little about constitutional revision, perhaps mindful of opinion polls consistently showing that a majority of Japanese still opposed changes that could make it easier to embroil their nation in foreign wars.
在出任首相的两年以前，安倍晋三曾提出，为了建立一支完整的军队，应修改宪法，他说，宪法已不再反映民主的日本在一个快速变化的世界中所面临的现实。但上任之后，安倍晋三最初没有太提修宪，也许是考虑到民意调查结果一直显示，大多数日本人仍反对修改宪法，担心那会让自己的国家更容易卷入对外战争。
But Mr. Abe has seized on the murders of the Japanese hostages to make some of his strongest appeals yet for unshackling the nation’s military. Saying Japan had been unable to save the hostages, he has called for easing restrictions on its purely defensive armed forces to allow them to conduct rescue missions, evacuations and other overseas operations to protect Japanese nationals.
不过，安倍晋三已经抓住日本人质被杀的机会，为放开日本军队手脚发出了自己最强的呼吁。他说日本未能挽救人质，他呼吁放松对日本纯防御性军队的限制，让军队能从事救援、人员撤离以及其他海外任务，以保护日本国民。
The hostages, Kenji Goto, a journalist, and Haruna Yukawa, an adventurer, were beheaded a week apart by the Islamic State, a militant group in Syria and Iraq that had demanded a $200 million ransom for their release. The murders outraged and sickened Japan, which had seen itself as largely immune to the sort of violence faced by the United States and other nations that have been involved militarily in the Middle East. Since 1945, Japan has adhered to a peaceful brand of diplomacy that has seen it become a major donor of economic and humanitarian aid to the Middle East and elsewhere.
两名人质——记者后藤健二和冒险者汤川遥菜——被在叙利亚和伊拉克的“伊斯兰国”武装组织相隔一周斩首，该组织曾为释放人质索要2亿美元的赎金。人质被杀令日本全国愤怒震惊，日本曾一直认为本国基本上不受那些暴力的影响，那是美国和军事介入中东的其他国家所面临的问题。1945年以后，日本一直坚持和平的外交政策，已成为中东和其他地区经济和人道主义援助的主要捐赠国。