BEIJING — Capable, inconspicuous and “not too tall.”
北京——能干、不引人注意，“不太高”。
Those were the qualities that Mr. Zheng, a coal mining executive from Shandong Province, was looking for in a bodyguard. Standing in front of the Genghis Security Academy here, Mr. Zheng, in his T-shirt and dark trousers and reluctance to divulge his full name, appeared every bit as low-key as his description of the ideal bodyguard.
这就是山东煤老板郑先生对一名保镖的要求。郑先生身着T恤衫和深色裤子站在北京天骄国际安全学院外，他不愿意透露自己的全名，似乎和他所描述的理想保镖一样低调。
It is common among his friends to hire bodyguards once they achieve a certain degree of business success as a shield against possible robberies or kidnappings, he said.
他说，生意取得一定成功之后，他的朋友们往往会聘请保镖，以防抢劫或绑架。
“When you run into trouble, you can’t just dial 110,” he said, referring to the Chinese police hot line. “They could be off eating lunch, and who knows when they would arrive.”
“遇到麻烦的时候，打110没多大用，”他说。110是中国的报警电话。“他们可能出去吃午饭了，而且谁知道他们什么时候能到。”
The 64 men and women currently enrolled at the academy, founded by Mr. Zheng’s friend Chen Yongqing, were inside, enjoying their first meal in 24 hours. They had signed up for a grueling two-week training course, led by a French Foreign Legion veteran, that promised to give them the skills needed to join the growing ranks of China’s private bodyguards.
这所学院的创办者是郑先生的朋友陈永青，目前在校的64名男女学员正在这里享用他们24小时里的第一顿饭。他们参加了一个为期两周的高强度培训课程，负责人是一名法国外籍军团的退伍军人。该课程承诺让学员学到所需技能，以便加入中国日渐壮大的私人保镖大军。
Located on the northeast outskirts of the Chinese capital, the new training center is the latest expansion by Mr. Chen’s company, Genghis VIP Protection.
这所新的培训中心坐落在首都北京的东北郊，是陈永青的公司天骄特卫集团的一项最新业务。
Since the Chinese government began allowing privately-owned bodyguard companies to be established in 2010, many military veterans like Mr. Chen have sought to capitalize on the increased demand among Chinese for personal protection both at home and abroad.
自从2010年，中国政府开始允许成立私人保镖公司以后，许多像陈永青这样的退伍老兵就看准了中国人日益增长的在国内外享受个人保护的需求，试图利用这一商机。
Top students from the academy will have the chance to join the affiliated company, Genghis Security Adviser, Mr. Chen said in an interview. The company currently employs about 250 full-time bodyguards in China. Although Mr. Chen is focusing on the domestic market now, like others in the field he is exploring international opportunities and has signed cooperative agreements with security firms in South America and Africa.
陈永青在采访中说，这所学院最优秀的毕业生将有机会进入学院关联的天骄特保安全顾问有限公司。这家公司目前在中国共有250名全职保镖。虽然陈永青现在关注的主要是国内市场，但是与该领域的其他人一样，他也正在寻找拓展国际市场的机会，而且他还与南美和非洲的安保公司签订了合作协议。
Chinese companies have proven willing to take on projects in hazardous environments often shunned by Western investors, particularly in potentially contentious industries like drilling and mining. Last year, more than 50 Chinese workers were kidnapped in two separate incidents in Egypt and Sudan. They were eventually freed unharmed through negotiations by local governments, but not before the Chinese government faced uncomfortable appeals from some Chinese online commentators for the People’s Liberation Army to be deployed.
事实证明，中国公司比较愿意承接具有危险性的项目，特别是容易引起争议的钻探、采矿等行业的项目，而这些正是西方投资者常常努力回避的。去年，在埃及和苏丹的两次事件中，50多名中国工人遭到绑架。经当地政府协商，他们最终获释，所有人都安全无恙。在此之前，曾有中国网络评论人士呼吁中国政府派人民解放军干预此事，这种呼声让中国政府颇为尴尬。
In 2012, there were more than 20,000 Chinese companies operating overseas and more than 83 million Chinese traveled abroad, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. China is eager to assure its citizens that the country’s growing power means they will be protected abroad. But Beijing’s policy of non-interference has so far precluded military rescues, as when U.S. Navy Seals killed three Somali pirates to free a cargo ship captain off the Horn of Africa in 2009.
据外交部统计，2012年，在海外运营业务的中国公司有2万多家，出国人员则超过了8300万人。中国政府急于向它的人民保证，在国家实力逐渐增强的情况下，他们也会在海外受到保护。然而，中国政府的不干预政策却对军事救援造成了阻碍。2009年，美国海豹突击队(Navy Seals)为了从“非洲之角”(Horn of Africa)解救一名货船船长，采取行动击毙了三名索马里海盗，而中国政府却无法采取这样的行动。
Huang Ping, director general of the Foreign Ministry’s department of consular affairs, said in a People’s Daily online chat last February that the government would “move heaven and earth” to assist Chinese citizens who run into trouble abroad. But he encouraged them to take their own precautions.
今年2月，外交部领事司司长黄屏在人民网的在线交流中表示，政府会“想尽一切办法”给在海外陷入麻烦的中国公民提供最好的帮助。他同时也建议人们提高自己的防范意识。
Companies like Mr. Chen’s are part of a growing group of private security outfits, often founded by retired military personnel, who are targeting this market opportunity.
像天骄这样的公司，是日益壮大的私人安保大军的一部分，这其中很多公司都是由退伍军人创办的，他们瞄准了这个市场机遇。
These companies offer to provide personal bodyguards as well as to guard overseas facilities, manage locally hired security staff and deploy personnel to protect ships from pirates.
除了提供贴身保镖之外，这些公司的业务还包括护卫中国的海外机构，管理当地雇用的安保人员，并部署人力保护船只不受海盗劫掠。
Xie Qingsen, a retired People’s Liberation Army special operations soldier, founded Special Fighters (China) International Security Service Group in 2006 with other veterans. Four years later, the company established a Hong Kong presence to reach out to the international market.
谢清森是退役的解放军特种兵，2006年，他跟其他退伍军人一起创办了七兵堂（中国）国际安保集团有限公司。四年后，为了打开国际市场，该公司在香港设立了分支机构。
Although Mr. Xie declined to disclose names, he said the company’s clients include a major Chinese state-owned enterprise in Afghanistan, as well as Chinese companies in Iraq, Malaysia and the United States.
谢清森拒绝透露客户姓名，但他说，客户中有一家是中国一家大型国有企业在阿富汗的分公司，还有中国公司在伊拉克、马来西亚和美国的分支机构。
Despite the numbers of companies involved, the private security industry in China is relatively undeveloped and inexperienced, said Mr. Chen and Mr. Xie. Chinese firms still cannot compete with leading international security firms such as Academi (formerly Blackwater USA).
陈永青和谢清森说，中国的私人安保公司虽然数量不少，但整个行业发展相对落后、缺乏经验，中国安保公司仍然无法跟阿可德米（Academi，前黑水公司[Blackwater USA]）这样国际一流的安保公司竞争。
“Frankly, the industry in China is far from international standards,” said Mr. Xie. “There are several reasons. First is government policy. There are restrictions on training — for example, shooting practice. We also have less overseas experience.”
“坦白说，在中国，这个行业离国际标准还差得远，”谢清森说，“原因有几个。第一是政府政策。像实弹射击这样的训练是受限的。而且我们的海外经验也少。”
In China, only security staff from companies that are majority state-owned are allowed to carry firearms, he said.
他说，在中国，只有国企的安保人员可以携带枪支。
Pan Xianjin, founder of China Kingdom International, said another common problem in the industry is that many companies use People’s Armed Police training manuals, which is problematic because, unlike the armed police, private bodyguards do not have law enforcement authority to make arrests or use physical force.
金盾国际保镖公司的创办者潘显今说，这个行业的另一个通病是，很多公司都用武警训练手册培训员工，这是有问题的，因为私人保镖跟武警不一样，不具备逮捕别人或者使用武力的执法权力。
Still, Mr. Pan said he is proud of the professionalism of his company, which provided protection for a Chinese state construction firm in Libya as that country descended into civil strife in 2011. He said client satisfaction is “relatively high,” which he attributes to strict adherence to a code of conduct and careful selection of projects. He said his company has turned down requests that would involve unlawful acts, such as murder.
尽管如此，潘显今说，利比亚在2011年陷入内乱的时候，他的公司为一家在利比亚的中国建筑公司提供了保护，他为公司有这样的专业水平感到自豪。他说，客户满意度“相当高”，这是公司严格遵守行为标准、精心挑选项目的结果。他说，公司拒绝了一些涉及非法行为的要求，比如谋杀。
The security executives are optimistic about the sector’s prospects. Demand is out stripping supply, Mr. Pan said. When he established his company in 2011, he was its sole employee for the first year. Now the company has 40 full-time bodyguards and is looking to expand.
这些安保公司的高管对行业前景十分看好。潘显今说，安保服务供不应求。他的公司创办于2011年，第一年只有他一个人，现在公司有了40名全职保镖，而且还在扩大规模。
One advantage Chinese companies offer over their international competition is cost. A one-year contract for a team of two or three bodyguards at Special Fighters typically costs about 300,000 renminbi, or $50,000.
跟外国竞争对手相比，中国安保公司的一大优势是价格。从七兵堂雇佣两到三个保镖，签订一年期的合同，价格通常为30万人民币左右。
Mr. Xie, the founder of Special Fighters, said that the military background of many of the men who become bodyguards also gives the Chinese security companies an edge.
七兵堂的创办者谢清森说，很多保镖都曾经在军队里服过役，这也是中国安保公司的一个优势。
“The individual quality of Chinese soldiers is higher than that of international soldiers,” Mr. Xie said. “Chinese soldiers have more internal strength.”
“中国兵的个人素质比外国兵高，”谢清森说，“中国兵的内在力量更强。”
Using a Chinese expression that conveys an ability to endure hardship, he explained: “They have more capacity to eat bitterness.”
他解释道，“他们更能吃苦。”