Even for the land that invented Toyota-style efficiency, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is on a tear. His ruling Liberal Democratic Party pushed 98 percent of its bills through Parliament, a success rate not seen in Japan for over a decade.
即便是对于发明了丰田式效率的日本来说，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的效率也已经高得破表。他所在的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)98%的法案都获得了国会通过，这么高的成功率在日本已经十年未见。
But after a meteoric rise in the market last year, Tokyo shares have lately lost momentum as investors increasingly question whether Japan’s hard-charging prime minister can actually achieve his ambitious goals.
但是，东京股市去年的飙升只是昙花一现，随着投资者越来越怀疑这位强势的日本首相是否真的能实现他的宏伟目标，东京股市近来已经失去了上涨动力。
Mr. Abe’s solution? Another blast of economic measures. And in a harbinger of just how far he will go to rouse Japan’s long-sluggish economy, he promised, among other things, to take on Japan’s staid corporate managers and one of the most sacred of sacred cows: the nation’s interlocking connections among Japanese companies that form the core of Japan, Inc.
安倍晋三的解决方案是什么呢？另一轮经济措施。一个征兆显示了他对提振日本长期低迷的经济有多大的决心：安倍晋三承诺拿日本古板守旧的公司管理层开刀，并把矛头指向一个极为神圣不可侵犯的传统——日本企业界核心公司之间盘根错节的关系。
In a televised address to the nation on Tuesday, Mr. Abe unveiled a fresh set of economic policies intended to kick-start growth in Japan, the world’s third-largest economy. The country needs more women in the workplace, he said, and more entrepreneurs and more foreign workers. Japanese corporations would do well to ditch their anemic seniority-based systems and start rewarding high performers. And company boards need to start hustling to generate better returns and lure back investors.
本周二，在对全国发表的电视讲话中，安倍晋三公布了一套新的经济政策，目的是启动世界第三大经济体日本的经济增长。他说，日本需要更多的职场女性，更多的创业者和外国劳工。如果抛弃没营养的、以资历为基础的机制，开始奖励高绩效员工，日本企业会有上佳表现。公司董事会需要努力争取更好的回报，把投资者吸引回来。
“In my growth strategy, there are neither taboos nor sacred cows,” Mr. Abe said. “There is only a singular, strong devotion to see this through to the very end.”
“在我的增长战略中，既没有什么东西是禁忌，也没有什么东西神圣不可侵犯，有的只是锐意进取，贯彻到底，”安倍晋三说。
Among domestic and foreign investors, however, skepticism is rife. In his bid to raise economic growth, Mr. Abe has so far relied heavily on monetary and fiscal stimulus, which he refers to as the first two “arrows” of his so-called Abenomics agenda. The most highly anticipated third arrow — changes intended to bring a healthy dose of competition and innovation to the economy — has largely underwhelmed.
但是，日本国内外投资者仍然疑虑重重。安倍晋三促进经济增长的努力，迄今为止主要还是依靠货币和财政刺激，他说那是“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)中的两支“箭”。最受期待的第三支箭——采取措施，为日本经济注入健康的竞争和创新——一直乏善足陈。
Despite the flurry of bills and proposals adopted this year, details have yet to be worked out even on centerpiece measures, like lowering Japan’s effective corporate tax rate, which is one of the highest in the industrialized world, at 35 percent. The plan, for now, is to cut it to below 30 percent over the next years.
尽管今年通过了很多议案和提案，它们的细节还有待出台，就连降低实际公司税等核心措施也是如此；日本的公司税率为35%，是工业化国家中最高的。现在的计划是在未来几年内，把它削减到30%以下。
Already, powerful voices have warned against cutting Japan’s corporate tax rate without securing other sources of revenue for the cash-starved government. In other sensitive areas, like labor market deregulation and tradition-bound agriculture, proposals have already been watered down.
一些有力的声音已经发出警告：日本政府资金匮乏，在没有其他固定收入来源的情况下，不要削减日本的公司税率。在其他敏感领域，比如对劳工市场的松绑，以及受传统束缚的农业行业，提案已经被兑了水。
“The Abe government will likely struggle to implement all but the most inoffensive of policies in the growth strategy,” Tobias Harris, a Japan expert at the corporate advisory firm Teneo Intelligence, said in a note.
“对安倍政府而言，在这些增长战略中，除了最无异议的政策之外，其他的贯彻起来可能都不容易，”咨询公司Teneo Intelligence的日本事务专家托比阿斯·哈里斯(Tobias Harris)在一份报告中说。
One highlight of Mr. Abe’s growth platform, however, has been a promised overhaul of corporate governance, where the administration has laid out a robust set of proposals to bring significant change to the way Japanese corporations are run. Japan’s financial regulator has already introduced new guidelines to bolster shareholders’ monitoring of Japanese companies.
但是，安倍晋三的增长平台有一大亮点，就是承诺对企业治理进行改革，政府已制定了一套强大的提案，希望大幅改变日本企业的运作方式。日本金融监管机构也已经出台了新的指导方针，以加强股东对日本企业的监控。
The government is also preparing what advisers say will be a world-class corporate governance code that requires multiple independent outside directors, formal protection of whistle-blowers, and other measures that proponents say would have been unthinkable before Mr. Abe came to power a year and a half ago.
政府还准备推出一套规则，按顾问们的说法，这将是一套世界级的企业管治规则，比如要求企业拥有多名独立外部董事，会对举报人提供正式保护等等。支持者们表示，这些事情仅在一年半以前，即安倍晋三上台前，是想都不敢想的。
These corporate governance reforms also seek to put an end to a decades-old tradition: the practice of holding shares in one another to create a web of relationships meant to keep unwanted interference to a minimum.
安倍晋三的公司治理改革，也希望杜绝日本企业界几十年来的一个老传统：公司通过交叉持股，形成一个关系网，以便把它们不喜欢的干预减少到最低限度。
It is not easily visible on the surface, but Japan’s biggest corporations are linked together in a sprawling web of mutual shareholdings that shield company executives from the pressures of the stock market. Coddled in a comfortable old boys’ club, Japanese executives have long gone unpenalized for failed investments, refusing to withdraw from money-losing businesses, hoarding cash and bringing shareholders perennially low returns.
虽然从表面上看不出来，但日本最大的一些公司相互持有股份，形成了一个庞大的网络，为公司高管提供保护，减少来自股市的压力。从很早之前开始，日本高管们就舒适地窝在一个“老男孩俱乐部”里，投资失败了也不受任何影响，他们拒绝从赔钱的企业撤出，囤积现金，而且总是给股东提供很低的回报。
Mr. Abe’s government sees the cozy arrangements as out of place these days, especially as the country seeks to win over foreign investors. Mr. Abe’s latest round of measures calls for a reduction in cross-shareholdings to “as low a level as possible.”
如今，安倍晋三的政府把这种逍遥自在看成是不合时宜，毕竟日本现在希望吸引外国投资者。安倍晋三的最新一轮措施敦促企业把交叉持股降低到“尽可能低的水平”。
“It’s the simple answer to the question of how to raise Japan’s productivity,” Masaaki Kanno, Japan economist at JPMorgan Securities, said this month. “The role of the shareholder will be more important.”
“对于如何提高日本生产力，这是一个立竿见影的做法，”摩根大通(JPMorgan)研究日本的经济学家菅野雅明(Masaaki Kanno)本月说。“股东的作用将变得更加重要。”
Take Ezaki Glico, the Osaka-based candy maker that has long struggled to generate steady returns on equity. Glico’s equity relationships to companies far removed from its chocolate and chewing gum business have long protected its management, and thwarted shareholders’ demands for a corporate overhaul.
下面我们来看看糖果制造商江崎格力高(Ezaki Glico)的例子。这家公司位于大阪，长期以来一直难以提供稳定的股本回报率。它的公司间股权关系远离其巧克力和口香糖业务，长期为其管理层提供保护网，屡屡挫败股东的企业改革要求。
According to regulatory filings, Glico’s cross-shareholdings include mutual stakes in companies as diverse as Duskin, a cleaning services company; Toppan Printing, which puts out books; and the TV network Tokyo Broadcasting System. Glico even has a cross-shareholding relationship with House Foods, a rival in the snacks business, as well as its main lenders.
监管文件显示，与格力高公司交叉持股的企业五花八门，其中乐清(Duskin)是一家清洁服务公司，凸版印刷(Toppan Printing)是图书公司，东京广播公司(Tokyo Broadcasting System)是电视台。格力高甚至和它在零食业务上的竞争对手好侍食品(House Foods)及其主要贷款人交叉持股。
Those relationships came in handy for Glico’s beleaguered management in 2008, when Steel Partners, an American hedge fund led by the billionaire Warren G. Lichtenstein, tried to force Glico to overhaul management, and accept an outside board member.
2008年当格力高的管理层陷入困境时，这些关系就派上了用场：当时，亿万富翁沃伦·利希滕斯坦(Warren G. Lichtenstein)领导的美国对冲基金钢铁伙伴(Steel Partners)试图迫使格力高对管理层进行大换血，并接受一名外部董事会成员。
Glico’s allies rallied to the rescue, approving a poison-pill measure that effectively shut down Steel Partners’ efforts. By the end of the year, the hedge fund had dumped its roughly $175 million stake in Glico; foreign observers cried foul.
格力高的盟友前来应援，利用一个毒丸计划，有效地阻止了钢铁伙伴的行动。到当年年底，这支对冲基金已经抛出了它持有的大约1.75亿美元格力高股份；外国观察家强烈抗议说日本企业违规。
For all the efforts to put an end to such practices in Japan, recent filings show they remain prevalent — especially between companies, like Glico, with a history of being targeted by activist investors. And it is unclear how effectively the government can pressure companies to disentangle their shareholdings. Indeed, while Mr. Abe’s economic platform is widely seen as impressive, the challenge — as investors in Japan have learned from the country’s previous attempts at change — is to carry the plans through. Many parts of the Abenomics strategy have been intentionally left vague, to avoid attacks and help win the favor of the country’s powerful bureaucrats and interest groups.
尽管政府努力减少交叉持股现象，但最近的文件显示，这种做法仍然普遍——尤其是在像格力高这样的、以前遭到过激进投资者攻击的公司中。目前还不清楚政府施压让企业理清股权能有多大成效。事实上，虽然人们广泛认为安倍晋三的经济平台取得了斐然成就，但是正如日本业务投资者从该国以前尝试推行的变化中所看到的，这个平台面临的挑战在于计划的实施。安倍经济学战略的很多地方故意加以模糊，以便避开攻击，并帮助它赢得日本势力强大的官僚和利益集团的青睐。