UNITED NATIONS — The five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council have agreed on a resolution that will require Syria to give up its chemical weapons, but there will be no automatic penalties if the Syrians fail to comply, officials said Thursday.
联合国——联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)五个常任理事国已达成一项决议，要求叙利亚放弃化学武器，但有官员周四表示，叙利亚如果不遵守决议，也不会直接受到惩罚。
The agreement, hammered out after days of back room negotiations, represents a compromise between the United States, its allies, and Russia, which had refused to go along with any measure that imposed automatic penalties on Syria if it fails to obey.
该协议是经过数天秘密谈判后才敲定的。协议表明，美国及其盟友与俄罗斯双方之间作出了妥协。俄罗斯拒不同意任何规定在叙利亚未遵守协议时，直接对其施以惩罚的协议。
But the deal, when finally approved by the 15 members of the Security Council, would amount to the most significant international diplomatic initiative of the Syrian civil war and a remarkable turn for President Obama who had been pushing for a military strike on Syria only to accept a Russian proposal to have Syria relinquish its chemical arsenal.
但在最终获得安理会15个成员国批准后，该协议将成为有关叙利亚内战最重要的国际外交动议。对一直推动对叙利亚发起军事袭击的奥巴马总统而言，该协议也是一个重要转折，他接受了俄罗斯的提议，让叙利亚自行放弃化学军备。
Western diplomats said the resolution would be legally binding and would stipulate that if Syria fails to abide the terms, the Security Council would take measures under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the strongest form of a council resolution. Such measures could include economic sanctions or even military action. But before any action could be taken, the issue would have to go back for debate by Security Council, on which Russia, like the other permanent members, holds a veto.
一些西方外交官表示，该决议将具有法律约束力，并将规定，如果叙利亚未能遵守相关条款，安理会将依据《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)第七章采取措施。这是最强硬的安理会决议形式，类似的措施包括经济制裁，乃至军事行动。但在采取任何行动之前，这个问题都必须回到安理会进行讨论。和其他常任理事国一样，俄罗斯在安理会上具有否决权。
Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, said in a message on Twitter that the resolution established a “new norm” against the use of chemical weapons. Mark Lyall Grant, Britain’s ambassador to the United Nations, said in another post that the resolution agreed to by the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France would be “binding and enforceable.”
美国常驻联合国代表萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)在Twitter上的一篇帖子中表示，这项决议建立了禁止使用化学武器的“新规范”。英国常驻联合国代表马克·莱尔·格兰特(Mark Lyall Grant)在另一篇帖子中称，美国、俄罗斯、中国、英国和法国达成的这一决议“具有约束力，可强制执行”。
The diplomatic breakthrough on the Syria came as Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said progress had been made toward a resolution of the nuclear dispute between his country and the West.
就在叙利亚问题取得外交突破之时，伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)表示，伊朗已和西方在就核争端达成协议上取得了进展。
The entire 15-member Security Council began to discuss the Syria resolution that was agreed to by the United States, Russia, Britain, France and China — the permanent members of the Security Council — on Thursday evening.
周四晚上，总计有15个成员国的安理会开始讨论由常任理事国，即美国、俄罗斯、英国、法国和中国达成的涉叙决议。
A vote on the resolution could come as early as Friday, the French Foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, told reporters here Thursday night, so long as the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, based in The Hague, votes on its own Syria measure early Friday. A formal vote on the measure will not take place until the international organization that monitors compliance with the international treaty banning chemical weapons drafts procedures for inspecting and eliminating Syria’s vast arsenal of poison gas.
法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)周四晚间在这里告诉记者说，安理会最早周五便能对该决议进行投票，只要总部位于海牙的禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)能在周五早晨就自己的涉叙措施进行投票。这个组织负责监督对国际禁用化学武器条约的遵守情况。只有该组织起草了检查和销毁叙利亚庞大的毒气武库的相关程序后，安理会才会对该决议进行正式投票。
The Syria resolution was a major milestones for the United Nations after years of largely unproductive discussions in the Security Council over the civil war in Syria, which has killed more than 100,000.
对联合国而言，这项涉叙决议具有重要的里程碑意义。此前几年，安理会有关叙利亚内战的讨论基本上没取得什么成果。现在，叙利亚内战已导致超过10万人丧生。
Just three weeks ago, the Obama administration grew openly frustrated at the inability to win Russian support for military action against the government of President Bashar al-Assad after a chemical weapons attack Aug. 21 that killed more than 1400 people. Ambassador Power complained then that “there is no viable path forward in this Security Council.”
就在三周前，奥巴马政府还公开表示，对无法取得俄罗斯的支持，向叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)领导的政府采取军事行动感到沮丧。8月21日，叙利亚发生化学武器袭击，造成1400多人死亡。当时，鲍尔抱怨称，“在这样的安理会上没有可行的前进道路”。
Now, a key provision that of the resolution agreed to that “the use of chemical weapons anywhere constitutes a threat to international peace and security.”
现在，决议中的一项关键条款认为，“在任何地方使用化学武器都会对国际和平和安全构成威胁”。
Syria, the resolution states, “shall not use, develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile or retain chemical weapons, or transfer, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to other States or non-sate actors.”
决议中说，叙利亚“不得使用、研发、生产或以其他方式获取、储备、持有化学武器，也不得直接或间接地将化学武器转移至其他国家或非国家行为者”。
The measure notes that “in the event of noncompliance with this resolution, including unauthorized transfer of chemical weapons, or any use of chemical weapons by anyone in the Syrian Arab Republic,” the Security Council can decided to “impose measures under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter.”
这项决议还提到，“如果不遵守此决议，包括叙利亚阿拉伯共和国内任何人未经授权转移化学武器，或做出任何使用化学武器的行为”，安理会可以决定“根据《联合国宪章》第七章之规定采取措施”。
But while Western diplomats were hailing the new resolution as a breakthrough, much will depend on how it is ultimately implemented in a nation that is caught in a bloody, two-and-a- half-year civil war.
尽管西方外交官称赞新决议是一项突破，但很多问题仍然取决于，在这个过去两年半中陷入血腥内战的国家里，这项决议最终能如何实施。
According to the resolution, the director general of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the watchdog organization that polices the international treaty banning chemical weapons, or the secretary general of the United Nations would report any violations to the Security Council.
决议规定，如有违反决议的情况，禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons，简称OPCW）总干事或联合国秘书长要向安理会进行通报。OPCW是负责执行一项禁止化学武器的国际条约的监督机构。
The Council would then discuss that measures to impose for Syria’s noncompliance.
安理会之后会讨论，将对叙利亚违反决议的行为采取何种措施。
American officials have said that they were pleasantly surprised by the completeness of the Syrian government’s declaration of its chemical weapons program, which was presented to the O.P.C.W. on Friday.
叙利亚政府周五向OPCW提交了其化学武器项目的信息。美国官员表示，叙利亚政府公布的内容很全面，这让他们喜出望外。
But far more formidable challenges lie ahead.
然而前方还有更严峻的挑战。
By November, international monitors are to inspect all of Syria’s declared sites, and equipment to produce and mix chemical weapons is to be destroyed, according to a “framework” agreement that was negotiated by the United States and Russia earlier this month and which is to be enforced by the new Security Council resolution.
本月早些时候美国和俄罗斯谈判达成的一项“框架”协议规定，到了11月，国际观察员将检察叙利亚公布的所有地点，而用于制造和混合化学武器的设备届时也应当全部销毁。这项协议将由新的安理会决议执行。
Syria’s entire arsenal is to be eliminated by the middle of 2014, according to that accord, a process that Mr. Assad has said would take a year.
根据协议，叙利亚的全部化武要在2014年中期销毁，阿萨德表示，整个销毁过程可能会花费一年时间。
The diplomatic maneuvering over Syria came amid another drama at the United Nations
就在针对叙利亚展开外交斡旋期间，联合国也在上演另一场大戏。
Mr. Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, emerged from a meeting with six world powers late Thursday afternoon and said, with a smile, that he had “very substantive, businesslike” talks on resolving nuclear impasse as American and European officials announced that negotiations on “details” would be hammered out in Geneva next month.
伊朗外长扎里夫周四下午晚些时候，在与6个大国举行会晤后微笑着表示，他就解决核问题上的僵局进行了“很务实、很有实质意义”的会谈，而美国和欧洲官员则宣布，涉及“细节”的谈判将于下个月在日内瓦举行。
The meeting, led by the European Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, took place with the five permanent members of the Security Council, along with Germany.
会议是由欧盟最高外交官员凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)主持的，与会各方包括安理会五个常任理事国以及德国。
Ms. Ashton said she envisioned an “ambitious timetable,” of next steps that would be discussed when the group meets in Geneva on Oct 15 and Oct. 16. The details, she said, would address what Iran needs to do, how soon, and how the international community can verify whether it is keeping its word. “Twelve months is a good time frame to think about implementation on the ground,” she said.
阿什顿表示，她对下一步需要讨论的举措构想了一个“雄心勃勃的时间表”，上述与会者在10月15日和16日在日内瓦开会时将进行协商。她说，这些细节将涉及伊朗需要做什么，需要在多长时间里做到，以及国际社会该怎样验证伊朗是否信守诺言。她说，“考虑到实地的执行问题，12个月是一个很好的时间框架。”