HONG KONG — Anbang, a Chinese insurer, has hit a bump in its effort to buy an insurance company in Iowa for $1.57 billion, the latest setback to its multibillion-dollar global shopping spree.
香港——中国保险公司安邦在准备斥资15.7亿美元收购美国艾奥瓦州一家保险公司时遇到麻烦。安邦正在全球各地洒下大把金钱进行并购，而这是它遇到的最新挫折。
Anbang Insurance Group has struck a remarkable spate of deals including an agreement two years ago to buy the Waldorf Astoria hotel in New York. It has also reached a $6.5 billion deal to buy hotels from the private-equity firm Blackstone Group, and it has agreed to buy financial firms in Europe and South Korea.
安邦保险集团已经达成了一系列引人瞩目的交易，包括两年前收购纽约华尔道夫-阿斯托里亚酒店 (Waldorf Astoria)，斥资65亿美元从私募股权公司黑石集团(Blackstone Group)那里收购酒店，以及收购欧洲和韩国的一些金融公司。
The Chinese insurance company — which until recent years was not well-known even in its home country — is near the forefront of a growing wave of Chinese companies buying firms abroad.
就在几年之前，这家保险公司甚至在中国本土都不太知名，如今它却成为了中国企业海外并购大潮中的一个领跑者。
But the campaign hit a setback with Fidelity & Guaranty Life, the Des Moines-based insurer that Anbang agreed to buy last year. Anbang withdrew its application with the New York State Department of Financial Services to acquire the company, Fidelity said in a filing on Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
不过，安邦去年达成的收购总部设在得梅因的信保人寿保险公司(Fidelity & Guaranty Life)的协议，现在却出现波折。本周二，信保在提交给美国证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)的一份备案文件中表示，安邦撤回了向纽约州金融服务局(New York State Department of Financial Services)提交的收购申请。
Fidelity had hoped that Anbang could come back, saying the withdrawal was not final and that it expected Anbang to refile in the “near future.”
信保希望安邦能回心转意，表示撤回申请并非最终决定，期待安邦在“近期”重新申请。
Paul Marriott of FTI Consulting in Hong Kong, which represents Anbang, did not have an immediate comment on why Anbang withdrew its application. Fidelity did not say why Anbang withdrew its application, which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.
对于安邦撤回申请的原因，代表安邦的香港富事高商务咨询(FTI Consulting)的保罗·马里奥特(Paul Marriott)没有立即置评。《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)之前报道了申请撤回一事，但信保没有提到其中的原因。
The setback adds to Anbang recent stumbles. In March, it abruptly ended its $14 billion bid to buy Starwood Hotels and Resorts. It said little about why it had retreated, mentioning only “various market considerations.”
安邦近来遭遇的挫折不只这一起。今年3月，它突然放弃以140亿美元竞购喜达屋酒店及度假村(Starwood Hotels and Resorts)。安邦几乎没有提及原因，只是说“出于各种市场考虑”。
Anbang, which owns insurance companies, a bank and a leasing company, says it has almost $300 billion in assets; it is owned by 39 corporate shareholders, according to China’s State Administration of Industry and Commerce.
安邦旗下有多家保险公司、一家银行和一家租赁公司，自称拥有近3000亿美元的资产；从中国国家工商行政管理总局的资料来看，它的企业股东有39个。
Anbang must obtain regulatory approval for its takeover from states where Fidelity does business. It also has a pending application in Iowa, Fidelity said in its filing on Tuesday. Fidelity shares fell by more than 3.3 percent on Tuesday in New York, their biggest drop since August.
安邦要收购信保的话，就必须从信保开展业务的各州监管部门那里获得批准。信保在周二的备案文件中表示，安邦在艾奥瓦州的申请也有待批准。周二当天，信保在纽交所的股票价格下跌逾3.3%，创下去年8月以来的最大跌幅。
Anbang’s purchase of Fidelity, announced in November, was cleared by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a government panel that checks whether planned acquisitions of American companies raise national security concerns, Fidelity said in March.
安邦收购信保的计划是在去年11月宣布的。今年3月，信保表示这个计划已在美国外国投资委员会(Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States)获得通过。该委员会是政府机构，负责审核并购美国公司的计划是否涉及国家安全问题。