By any measure, the $11.8 million property on Long Island is a palace, with nine bedrooms and nine bathrooms, a golf course and a lower level with enough space for a gym, movie theater and sauna. But many of the potential buyers showing up to see the estate on Feeks Lane in Lattingtown, N.Y., are not so concerned about amenities. They are far more interested in the fact that the property resonates with Chinese history, having once belonged to the late Soong Mei-ling, also known as Madame Chiang Kai-shek. Dozens of people with ties to China — including citizens of the mainland, Taiwan and Hong Kong — have expressed an interest in buying the property in recent days, according to Jason Friedman, whose firm, the Friedman Team, is handling the sale.
不论以什么标准来衡量，这栋位于长岛的价值1180万美元（约合7330万元人民币）的住宅都是一座宫殿，它拥有九间卧室、九个卫生间、一座高尔夫球场，一个足以容纳健身房、电影院和桑拿浴室的下层空间。但前来参观这栋纽约州拉廷敦费克斯小道住宅的潜在买主中，很多人并不十分关心康乐设施。他们更关心这栋房产与中国历史的关联，这里曾属于蒋介石的夫人宋美龄。据贾森·弗里德曼(Jason Friedman)透露，近日，包括中国大陆、台湾及香港居民在内的数十名与中国有关联的买主，表示有兴趣购买这栋房产。弗里德曼的公司Friedman Team负责该房产的销售事宜。
“I would be surprised if a Chinese purchaser did not turn out to ultimately own the home,” Mr. Friedman wrote in an email.
弗里德曼在邮件中写道，“如果该房屋最终不归中国买主所有，我会很震惊。”
Many of the prospective buyers hope to assert a connection to Madame Chiang.
很多潜在买主希望与蒋夫人建立一种关联。
After the Communist victory in 1949, Chairman Chiang Kai-shek and his wife were forced into exile in Taiwan. Madame Chiang, who studied at Wellesley College in Massachusetts, moved to New York after her husband’s death in 1975 and lived in both Long Island and Manhattan. She died in 2003 at 105.
在1949年共产党取得胜利后，蒋介石与夫人被迫流亡台湾。在蒋介石于1975年去世以后，曾在马萨诸塞州威尔斯利学院(Wellesley College)学习的蒋夫人来到纽约，在长岛和曼哈顿居住。她于2003年去世，享年105岁。
Madame Chiang’s family bought the Long Island estate, known as Hillcrest, in 1949. She lived in it for two decades. In 1998, when an open house was held at the estate to auction some of her belongings, tens of thousands of people converged on the property, causing traffic delays and forcing the police to shut down the event.
蒋夫人的家人于1949年购买了这座名为Hillcrest的长岛住宅。她在那里住了20年。1998年该住宅举办开放参观日，以拍卖她的一些物品时，数万人来到该住宅，导致交通堵塞，迫使警方叫停活动。
A developer, the Stillman Organization, purchased the estate in 1998, dividing it into lots and building new homes.
开发商斯蒂尔曼房地产公司(Stillman Organization)于1998年买下了这栋住宅，将其分为多个部分，并建造了新住所。
The $11.8 million property now for sale includes several features that were around in Madame Chiang’s era, including a carriage house and a bamboo garden. The centerpiece of the property, a sprawling mansion, is newer, having been completed in 2003.
目前出售的价值1180万美元的住宅包括蒋夫人用过的几个建筑，比如一间马车房和一座竹园。这个庞大住宅的主要建筑是在2003年建成的新建筑。
Mr. Friedman estimated that of the 50 people who had expressed interest in the property since it was listed on Tuesday, nearly all were of Chinese descent. Some came from as far away as New Zealand.
据弗里德曼估计，自该住宅于周二开始交易以来，有50人表示有兴趣购买，几乎全是华裔。一些人从新西兰等地方远道而来。
“The historic relevance really puts it into a stratosphere of its own,” he wrote.
他写道，“这种历史关联无疑将它推到了一个卓尔不群的层次。”