There it sits, a deep-green beauty at the farmers’ market: that sweet, crisp nutritional dynamo we know as fresh local broccoli.
在农贸市场中，有一种深绿色的美丽蔬菜：一种吃起来微甜鲜脆、营养价值极高的蔬菜，也就是我们所说的新鲜的本地西兰花。
And then there’s this: a bitter, rubbery mass that’s starting to turn yellow around the tips, all bumped and bruised from its long trip from the field to the supermarket.
还有就是这一幕：西兰花的顶部开始变黄，吃起来有苦味，口感烂烂的，在从农田运到超市的漫长过程中还被碰伤。
Thomas Bjorkman, a plant scientist at Cornell University, examined the store-bought specimen like a diagnostician, unflinchingly but with a certain compassion.
康奈尔大学(Cornell University)的植物学家托马斯·比约克曼(Thomas Bjorkman)像诊断医生那样审视了商店买来的样品，他不留情面，但抱有一丝怜悯。
“It’s soft, almost limp,” he said, prodding one of the heads. “That sharp smell is from the sulfur compounds. Scale of 10, with 10 being broccoli picked the same day you eat it? I’d give this a 2, maybe a 3.”
“很软，几乎都蔫了，”他戳着一颗西兰花的顶部说。“那种个刺鼻的气味来自含硫化合物。若按1到10的尺度来衡量，而10代表采下来当天吃的西兰花，这棵算是2，或许3。”
For all the wonders of fresh broccoli, in most parts of the country it is available from local growers only during the cooler weeks at either end of the growing season, nowhere near long enough to become a fixture in grocery stores or kitchens.
尽管新鲜西兰花是一种极好的蔬菜，但在美国大部分地区，只有在种植季两端较为凉爽的几周里才有可能从当地种植者那里买到新鲜西兰花，远远不足以使它们成为食品超市或厨房的常备蔬菜。
Broccoli hates too much heat, which is why 90 percent of it sold in the United States comes from temperate California, which is often bathed by fog. The heads are fine if you live there, but for the rest of us they require a long truck ride (four or five days to the East Coast) and then some waiting time in a warehouse, tarnishing the appeal of a vegetable that health experts can’t praise enough.
西兰花不耐热，这就是为什么在美国出售的90%的西兰花都来自温度适中的加利福尼亚州，那里经常被雾笼罩。如果你住在加利福尼亚州，西兰花还会比较新鲜，但它们需要经过卡车的长途运输（到东海岸需要四到五天），并在仓库贮存一段时间后，才能到达我们其他人的手中，损害了健康专家赞不绝口的这种蔬菜的吸引力。
But Mr. Bjorkman and a team of fellow researchers are out to change all that. They’ve created a new version of the plant that can thrive in hot, steamy summers like those in New York, South Carolina or Iowa, and that is easy and inexpensive enough to grow in large volumes.
但比约克曼和一组研究人员正在设法改变这种情况。他们培育了一种新型西兰花，这种西兰花能够在闷热的夏季生长，比如纽约、南卡罗来纳州或艾奥瓦州等地的炎炎夏日，而且容易种植，成本低，适于大规模种植。
And they didn’t stop there: This crucifer is also crisp, subtly sweet and utterly tender when eaten fresh-picked, which could lift the pedestrian broccoli into the ranks of the vegetable elite. Think Asian-style salads of shaved stems, Mr. Bjorkman suggests, or an ultra-crisp tempura with broccoli that doesn’t need parboiling.
不仅如此：这种十字花科植物如果新鲜采摘的话，尝起来很脆、微甜，鲜嫩，有望使平淡无奇的西兰花升级为精品蔬菜。比约克曼提议，或许可用西兰花梗做成亚洲风味沙拉，或者用不需要预煮的西兰花做成极脆的天妇罗。
“If you’ve had really fresh broccoli, you know it’s an entirely different thing,” he said. “And if the health-policy goal is to vastly increase the consumption of broccoli, then we need a ready supply, at an attractive price.”
“如果你尝过非常新鲜的西兰花，你会明白它是一种完全不同的东西，”他说。“如果健康政策的目标是大幅提高西兰花的食用量，那我们需要持续稳定的供应，而且价格具有吸引力。”
The new broccoli is part of a mad dash by Cornell scientists to remake much of the produce aisle. The goal is to help shift American attitudes toward fruits and vegetables by increasing their allure and usefulness in cooking, while maintaining or even increasing their nutritional loads. In recent months, the Cornell lab has turned out a full-flavored habanero pepper without the burning heat, snap peas without the pesky strings, and luscious apples that won’t brown when sliced — a huge boon to school cafeteria matrons plagued by piles of fruit that students won’t eat unless it is cut up.
新型西兰花是康奈尔的科学家们紧锣密鼓尝试的一部分，其目的是再造很多农产品，增进它们的吸引力和在烹饪中的有用程度，同时保持甚至提高它们的营养价值，以帮助转变美国人对水果和蔬菜的态度。最近几个月，康奈尔实验室培育出一种口感鲜美但没有灼烧感的红魔王辣椒(habanero)，没有讨厌的细丝的甜豆，以及切开后不会变成棕色的香甜苹果，这对于学校餐厅的女管理员来说是一大喜讯，成堆的水果让她们发愁——不将水果切开，学生们就不会吃。
The Eastern Broccoli Project, based at the university’s Agricultural Experiment Station here in this small Finger Lakes city, also aims to maximize the new broccoli’s concentration of glucoraphanin, a compound that has been found to aid in preventing cancer.
杰尼瓦是芬格湖群中的一个小城，康奈尔大学在这里设立了农业实验站(Agricultural Experiment Station)，该站的东部地区西兰花计划(Eastern Broccoli Project)还有一个目标是，最大限度提高新型西兰花的萝卜硫苷含量，研究发现这种化合物有助于预防癌症。
In this crusade, Mr. Bjorkman, 50, is a hybrid of Mr. Wizard and the Mr. Smith who went to Washington. While developing the new plants, he has lobbied lawmakers on Capitol Hill to include money for vegetable research in the new farm bill. He has reached out to farmers, grocers and economists to ensure the new broccoli finds a mass market, first in the East, then in other parts of the country.
在这项努力中，50岁的比约克曼是科学怪才和懂得如何搞定华盛顿的务实先生的混合体。在开发新植物的同时，他在国会(Capitol Hill)游说立法者，在新的农业法案中纳入蔬菜研究的拨款。他与农民、食品零售商和经济学家进行接触，以确保新型西兰花找到一个大市场，首先是在东部，然后拓展到美国其他地方。
Two years of successful trials involving the largest seed companies have made the hot-weather broccoli plants ready for farming, though it may be several more years before East Coast grocers start selling the local florets.
经过有大型种子公司参与的两年成功试验，耐高温的西兰花植物已经可以投入大规模种植，但东岸的食品零售商可能还需要几年时间才会开始出售本地出产的西兰花。
But while Mr. Bjorkman is a passionate agrarian and vegetarian, his Perfect Broccoli may challenge a purist view of food. Critics are generally fine with his science, which involves fairly traditional forms of biotechnology, like using petri dishes to mate broccoli with radishes and other plants that would never hook up on their own, and selecting genes through this breeding that can minimize production costs and maximize consumer appeal.
但尽管比约克曼是一个充满激情的农业人和素食者，他的“完美西兰花”(Perfect Broccoli)可能对纯粹主义食物观构成挑战。批评者通常可以接受他的科学理论，其中包括相当传统的生物技术，如用培养皿来杂交西兰花、萝卜和其他植物（这些植物在自然界是不会发生杂交的），然后挑选出能实现生产成本最小化和消费者吸引力最大化的基因。
Rather, they cringe at his collaboration with large seed companies like Monsanto, whose biotechnology lineup includes squash and sweet corn developed with the far more advanced technology of genetic modification. Neither Monsanto nor Mr. Bjorkman says they have plans to pursue that method in developing better broccoli.
令批评者皱眉的是，比约克曼和孟山都(Monsanto)这样的大型种子公司合作，该公司采用先进得多的转基因技术，研发出南瓜和玉米等生物科技产品。孟山都公司和比约克曼都表示，他们不计划用此种方法来研发改良型西兰花。
“But it’s another example of Monsanto’s control of the food supply,” said Marion Nestle, a New York University nutrition professor and the author of “Food Politics.” “And that is a huge and legitimate question: Should one corporation have that level of control over things people depend on?”
“但这是孟山都控制食品供应的又一个例证，”纽约大学营养学教授、《食品政治》(Food Politics)一书的作者玛丽恩·内斯特尔(Marion Nestle)说。“这是一个巨大而正当的问题：应当让一家公司对人们赖以为生的食物有这么大的控制吗？”
Monsanto was first out of the gate with a heat-loving broccoli. It joined Mr. Bjorkman’s planting trials to test some of its varieties for heat tolerance and is now selling these seeds to farmers in Georgia. The company said it was aware of the concerns about consolidation in the industry and was striving to make its seeds available to small farmers and gardeners — an effort that Mr. Bjorkman embraces. (Some of the project’s seeds are already being sold by seed distributors.)
孟山都最早研发出喜热西兰花。该公司加入比约克曼的种植试验，以测试一些品种的耐热性，如今该公司向乔治亚州的农场主销售这些种子。公司表示，其意识到人们对行业整合的担忧，并正在努力让小农户和园丁都能买到种子——比约克曼支持这一努力。（该项目的一些种子已经在由种子经销商销售。）
His team realizes that a big part of its job is bringing together the clashing worlds of Big Food and Simple Eating.
比约克曼的研究小组发现，他们的工作有很大一部分是把“大型食品公司”和“简单食品”这两个相互冲突的世界融合到一起。
“Foodies, I don’t think they all understand there is nothing natural about farming, starting with tearing up the soil,” said Mark Farnham, a federal research geneticist in Charleston, S.C., who joined Mr. Bjorkman in starting the broccoli project. “Thomas has the ability to help people understand the connection of science and food, and the fact that we don’t reach a pinnacle and stop and say everything is good.”
南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿联邦研究遗传学专家马克·法纳姆(Mark Farnham)曾和比约克曼一起启动西兰花项目，他说，“美食家，我不认为他们都明白：农业本来就没有什么自然可言，从翻土那一刻开始就是这样。托马斯（指比约克曼——译注）有能力帮助人们理解科学和食物之间的联系，以及这样一个事实：我们不会达到一个顶点，然后停下来说，一切都达到完美了。”
Knowing that smart retailing is essential to success, Mr. Bjorkman designed the broccoli project to include all aspects of its growing and marketing, which helped him secure a $3.2 million grant from the Department of Agriculture in 2010, along with $1.7 million worth of contributions from commercial partners, including the produce-centric Wegmans grocery chain.
比约克曼知道巧妙的零售对成功是不可或缺的，他对西兰花项目的设计，涵盖了从种植到营销的所有方面，这帮助他在2010年从美国农业部(Department of Agriculture)得到320万美元的资助，外加商界合作伙伴提供的价值170万美元的贡献，包括以农产品为主的韦格曼斯(Wegmans)食品连锁超市。
Mr. Bjorkman’s expertise in plant physiology helped solve a key riddle: California has hot days, too, in the summer, so why would South Carolina be such a problem for broccoli?
比约克曼在植物生理学方面的专业知识帮他解开了一个关键的谜：加利福尼亚在夏季也有高温天气，那么，为什么南卡罗来纳州种不好西兰花呢？
“It’s the nights here in the East,” he said. “They’re so much warmer than those in California. And I found that the broccoli plant seems to be counting the hours.” Eight or 10 hours of heat is fine. But 24 hours above the mid-60s and the plants decide it would be suicide to flower. No flowering, no broccoli florets. The farmer ends up with a bunch of leaves.
他说，“这是因为东部这里的夜晚。这里的夜晚比加州要暖和得多。我发现西兰花植物似乎在计算时间。”8至10小时的高温没问题。但如果65华氏度以上的温度持续24小时，这种植物就会得出结论：开花等于自杀。不开花就不会结出小西兰花。种植者最后只能得到一堆叶子。
Eastern farmers may not reap as many pounds per acre as those in California, but they can make up for that gap (and not have to charge more) by avoiding big trucking costs, which Mr. Bjorkman counts as another plus for his broccoli: every new acre planted in the East will mean consuming less diesel fuel, generating less greenhouse gases.
东部种植者的西兰花亩产量可能低于加州，但他们可以省去卡车运输成本，从而弥补这一差距（而不必收取更高价格）。比约克曼认为这是他的西兰花的另一个效益：在东部多种植一英亩，就意味着消耗更少的柴油，减少温室气体排放。