Emboldened as they mop up the last Islamic State forces in the city of Tikrit, Iraqi military leaders are already vowing to follow up that operation with a much more ambitious one: marching into the vast Sunni heartland in western Iraq to root out some of the most significant militant strongholds.
伊拉克军方领导人在铲除提克里特最后的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装力量后，变得更加大胆。他们已誓称要在前述行动之后，开展一次更具雄心的行动：进军位于伊拉克西部广阔的逊尼派腹地，根除一些最重要的军事据点。
Iraqi and American officials say some progress in that region, Anbar Province, will be necessary before a serious effort is mounted to retake the northern city of Mosul from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
伊拉克和美国官员称，在发起大规模战役，从伊斯兰国（亦称ISIS或ISIL）手中夺回北部城市摩苏尔之前，有必要在安巴尔省地区先取得一些进展。
But just how that can be accomplished is a source of concern. Despite boasts by the Shiite militias that they were ready for Anbar, some Iraqi and American officials say it would be disastrous for a mostly Shiite-led force to begin assaulting towns in the Sunni-dominated area, and are seeking to limit the militias’ involvement.
不过，究竟如何完成这一目标，仍有待考虑。尽管什叶派民兵组织宣称已为安巴尔省做好了准备，一些伊拉克和美国官员表示，让基本由什叶派领导的武装力量来攻击逊尼派占主导地区的城镇，将带来严重后果。他们还希望能限制民兵组织的参与。
Anbar, after all, was the heart of the Sunni sectarian uprising against the American invasion and against the Shiite-dominated national government that followed. It was Al Qaeda’s original incubator in Iraq, and it was among the first places to fall to the Islamic State’s incursion.
毕竟，在逊尼派为反抗美国入侵以及随后建立的什叶派主导国家政府而发动的叛乱中，安巴尔是一个核心地带。它是基地组织(Al Qaeda)在伊拉克最初的温床，也是最早遭到伊斯兰国入侵的地方之一。
The militants now hold more than half the province — including the city of Falluja and large areas around the capital, Ramadi. And they are ruthlessly trying to suppress a group of Sunni Arab tribes who are resisting them with the help of the Iraqi Army and some Shiite militias.
目前，武装分子控制着安巴尔省超过一半的区域——其中包括费卢杰和省会拉马迪周边的大片区域。而且他们还无情地试图镇压一批逊尼派阿拉伯部落——后者在伊拉克军队和一些什叶派民兵的帮助下组织了抵抗。
Still, Anbar tribal leaders who would be willing to work with the Iraqi government are adamantly opposed to more militias in Anbar, and want tribal forces to be armed and trained in their place.
不过，有可能愿意与伊拉克政府合作的安巴尔省部落领导人，却坚决反对在安巴尔省安排更多民兵，而且希望部落军队能在他们的地盘上接受武装和训练。
One obstacle is that the Shiite-led Iraqi government has proved reluctant to arm the Sunni tribes more aggressively — as the Americans have tried to persuade it to do and are expected to encourage again when Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi visits Washington on April 14.
其中一个障碍是，事实已经证明，由什叶派领导的伊拉克政府并不愿意更大规模地向逊尼派部落提供武器——美国曾试图说服它这样做，当总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)于4月14日访问华盛顿时，美国可能会再提此事。
Mr. Abadi has publicly conceded the importance of getting more Sunni forces into the fight. On Friday, he met with political figures from Anbar Province, including Ahmed Abu Risha, a tribal leader whose brother was one of the critical leaders of the Sunni Awakening in Anbar Province, in which the tribes defeated Al Qaeda with American military help.
阿巴迪曾公开承认，让更多逊尼派武装力量参与战斗是很重要的。周五，他会见了安巴尔省的政治人物，其中包括部落领导人艾哈迈德·阿布·里沙(Ahmed Abu Risha)，他的一名兄弟曾是安巴尔省“逊尼觉醒”运动(Sunni Awakening)的重要领导人之一。那次运动中，这些部落在美国军队的帮助下，打败了基地组织。
“Liberating Anbar Province will form an important gate to liberate the rest of the areas under the control of ISIS,” Mr. Abadi said.
“解放安巴尔省，将为解放其他ISIS控制的地区打开一扇重要的大门，”阿巴迪说。
Despite his military commanders’ tight timeline to begin an Anbar operation — some say it could start soon after Mr. Abadi’s return from Washington this month — it is still unclear where the manpower for the mission would come from.
他的军事指挥官们必须尽快开始安巴尔的行动——有人说将在阿巴迪本月从华盛顿返回之后不久启动，但执行任务所需的兵力尚未落实。
Even with the use of large numbers of Shiite irregulars, along with Iranian military advisers, the conquest in Tikrit proved difficult, stalling for weeks until the advent of American airstrikes.
即使使用了大量什叶派非常规作战人员以及伊朗军方顾问，夺下提克里特的过程也十分艰难，在美国空袭到来之前曾僵持多个星期。
Relying heavily on those forces in Anbar would outrage the Sunni population there, American officials insist, and might further alienate people who are still on the fence about whether the Islamic State or the Shiite Iraqi government is the greater evil.
美国官员坚称，在安巴尔严重依赖这些力量会激怒那里的逊尼派人口，而且可能会进一步疏远那些仍不确定伊斯兰国和什叶派伊拉克政府谁更邪恶的观望者。
The Iraqi Army commander in Tikrit, Lt. Gen. Abdul al-Wahab al-Saadi, head of the counterterrorism force, said, “When I finish with Tikrit, I will go to Anbar, because I promised those people I would.”
提克里特的伊拉克陆军指挥官、反恐部队负责人阿卜杜勒·瓦哈布·萨阿迪(Abdul al-Wahab al-Saadi)中将说，“当我结束在提克里特的任务时，我会前往安巴尔，因为我向那些人承诺我会这么做。”
Still, he conceded that it could not be with large numbers of Shiite militiamen — even though he is quick to credit them as an important part of recent Iraqi victories in Diyala and Salahuddin Provinces, including Tikrit.
不过，他承认不会有大量什叶派民兵的参与——虽然他毫不犹豫地称赞了他们，说最近伊拉克在迪亚拉省和萨拉赫丁省取得的一系列胜利中，他们立了大功，包括在提克里特的胜利。
“They were responsible for liberating 10,000 square kilometers of territory,” he said, or 3,861 square miles.
“他们解放了1000平方公里的领土，”他说。
Replacing them in Anbar, for the most part, will be local Sunni tribes. But efforts to arm those tribes have moved slowly, as the Iraqi authorities remain suspicious that some might end up fighting against the Iraqi government or supporting the Islamic State.
在安巴尔代替他们的将主要是当地的逊尼派部落。不过，为这些部落提供武装的行动进展缓慢，因为伊拉克当局仍然怀疑，一些部落最终可能会反抗伊拉克政府或支持伊斯兰国。
There are also disputes among the tribes over which ones should get weapons, with some saying that the American military and Iraqi authorities are backing the wrong groups.
而在这些部落之间，对于谁应该获得武器也存在分歧。一些部落称，美国军方和伊拉克当局支持了错误的人。
Sheikh Abdul Razak, a Jordan-based leader of the large Dulaimi tribe from Anbar Province, said that what he disparagingly calls “Baghdad sheikhs” had joined the government and would let Iranian-backed Shiite militias into Anbar to fight the Islamic State.
身在约旦的安巴尔省大部族杜莱米的领导人谢赫·阿卜杜勒·拉扎克(Sheikh Abdul Razak)说，“巴格达的谢赫们”已经加入了政府，他们将允许伊朗支持的什叶派民兵进入安巴尔，与伊斯兰国作战。
“It’s clear the popular mobilization is the hand of Iran, and this is going to be like ethnic cleansing of the Sunnis,” he said, referring to the militias by their official name, the Popular Mobilization Forces.
“显然，人民动员听命于伊朗，这会变得像是对逊尼派的种族清洗，”他说，提到那些民兵组织时用的是它们的正式名称“人民动员组织”(Popular Mobilization Forces)。
Mr. Razak even hired an American consultant, Jonathan S. Greenhill, to lobby Congress on his behalf and promote his view that the American-led coalition is picking the wrong partners in Anbar. Mr. Greenhill, of the Greenhill Group in Arlington, Va., is a retired Central Intelligence Agency officer whose biography lists him as former “chief of base in a Near East war zone.”
拉扎克甚至还雇了一位名叫乔纳森·S·格林希尔(Jonathan S. Greenhill)的美国顾问，代表他游说国会并推销他的观点，即以美国为主导的联盟在安巴尔选错了合作伙伴。来自弗吉尼亚州阿灵顿格林希尔集团(Greenhill Group)的格林希尔，是中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)的一名退休官员，其简介显示他曾任“近东某战区基地的负责人”。
“The sheikh has deep support in Anbar and important valuable information on the terrorists,” Mr. Greenhill said, adding that his client has been unsuccessful in meeting with military officials from the coalition. “The coalition is dealing with the wrong sheikhs, who do not enjoy widespread Sunni support.”
“这位谢赫在安巴尔深得人心，并且掌握了宝贵的恐怖分子信息，”格林希尔说，并接着表示，他的委托人想与联盟的官员会面，但一直未能成功。“联盟正在和错选的谢赫打交道，他们并不受逊尼派的广泛支持。”
Coalition officials insist that the Iraqi government will decide which tribes to arm and that any military aid to them must go through the government.
联盟官员则坚持认为，将由伊拉克政府决定武装哪些部落，并且对它们的任何军事援助，都必须经过政府。
“This is their show,” said one senior coalition official, speaking on condition of anonymity as a matter of official policy. But, the official said, no one now seriously believes that Iranian-backed Shiite militias will be part of any major offensive in Anbar.
“这是他们的表演，”一名高级联盟官员说。因为官方政策的要求，这名官员要求匿名。但该官员表示，目前没人真的认为伊朗支持的什叶派民兵组织，会成为针对安巴尔的任何大规模攻势的一部分。
Unlike Anbar, the provinces of Salahuddin and Diyala, where the Shiite militias have been most active, have mixed Shiite and Sunni areas. In areas where Shiite militiamen were victorious, if there were populations of Sunnis, there were also reports of human rights abuses by the irregulars.
不像安巴尔，在什叶派民兵组织最活跃的萨拉赫丁省和迪亚拉省，存在什叶派和逊尼派混居的地区。在什叶派民兵获胜的地区，如果有逊尼派民众，会出现非正规军侵犯人权的报道。
Such abuses — including extrajudicial killings of prisoners and looting by militiamen — are also being reported to a lesser degree in and around Tikrit, even though almost all of its population fled before the heaviest fighting.
在提克里特及周边地区，尽管几乎所有民众都在最激烈的战斗爆发前逃离了，但依然有这类侵犯人权的报道，包括民兵法外处决囚犯及趁火打劫，不过程度轻一些。
Prime Minister Abadi publicly criticized the looting and ordered the militias to be withdrawn from Tikrit on Saturday as a result, a move that was widely praised by Sunni leaders.
阿巴迪总理公开谴责抢劫行为，并因此在周六下令将民兵组织撤离提克里特。此举受到了逊尼派领袖的广泛称赞。
On Tuesday, Mr. Abadi went a step further, ordering that all the popular mobilization forces be placed under the direct command of the prime minister’s office. The collective popular mobilization had been led by Hadi al-Ameri, a prominent Shiite politician and leader of the Badr Organization and militia, who has close ties to Iran.
周二，阿巴迪更进一步，下令所有人民动员组织的力量由总理办公室直接指挥。此前，整个人民动员组织由著名的什叶派政治人物哈迪·阿米里(Hadi al-Ameri)领导。阿米里是巴德尔组织(Badr Organization)和民兵组织的领袖，与伊朗关系密切。
“He tried his best to stop the looting in Tikrit, and we appreciate that, but he couldn’t,” Hamid al-Mutlaq, a Sunni member of Parliament from Anbar, said of the prime minister’s efforts. “The people of Anbar will not let that happen there.”
“他尽了最大努力去阻止提克里特的抢劫，我们对此表示感谢，但他没有成功，”来自安巴尔的逊尼派议会议员哈米德·穆特拉克(Hamid al-Mutlaq)说的是总理的一些相关举措。“安巴尔人民不会让那一幕在那里发生。”
Hikmat Ayada, an adviser to Suhaib al-Rawi, the governor of Anbar, said officials expected an offensive to start there as soon as the prime minister returned from Washington. He said a final decision on starting the offensive had already been made in a meeting hosted by the American ambassador, Stuart E. Jones, the prime minister and other top Iraqi officials late last month, even before Tikrit fell.
安巴尔省省长苏哈伊卜·拉维(Suhaib al-Rawi)的顾问希克迈特·阿亚达(Hikmat Ayada)表示，官员们预计总理从华盛顿一回来，就会展开攻势。他说，早在夺回提克里特之前的上月月底，在美国大使斯图尔特·E·琼斯(Stuart E. Jones)、总理和伊拉克其他高层官员主持的一次会议上，就做出了发动进攻的最终决定。
“This will not be the same as in Salahuddin, in which the whole popular mobilization took part,” Mr. Ayada said. “Even if we have a few members of the popular mobilization, they are all under the leadership of the tribes or the army.”
“这一次将不同于萨拉赫丁省的情况，在萨拉赫丁，整个人民动员组织都参与了，”阿亚达说。“这次，即使有一些人民动员的成员，他们也都处于相关部落或军队的领导下。”