BANGKOK — The authorities in Myanmar on Thursday declared a nighttime curfew in Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, after a resurgence of religious violence left two people dead and more than a dozen injured.
曼谷——宗教暴力再现并导致两人死亡、至少十几人受伤后，缅甸当局周四宣布在该国第二大城市曼德勒实行宵禁。
In terrifying scenes that have been repeated numerous times in Myanmar over the past two years, scores of Buddhist men on motorcycles converged on a Muslim neighborhood in Mandalay brandishing swords, yelling anti-Muslim slogans and ransacking Muslim shops, witnesses said.
目击者称，大量骑着摩托车的男性佛教徒聚集到曼德勒的一个穆斯林社区，挥舞着刀具，高喊着反穆斯林口号，掠夺穆斯林店铺。过去两年里，这种恐怖的场面曾在缅甸多次重复出现。
The curfew order, issued by the Mandalay regional government, bans gatherings of more than five people from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m.
宵禁是由曼德勒当地政府颁布的，禁止人们在晚上9点至凌晨5点期间举行五人以上的聚会。
This was the first time in recent years that large-scale religious rioting struck a major city in Myanmar, raising fears of a wider conflict. Mandalay — like the country’s largest city, Yangon — is heavily multicultural, a patchwork of Buddhist, Muslim, Christian and Hindu communities who have lived side by side since well before British colonial times.
在缅甸，大城市发生大规模宗教骚乱尚属近些年中的第一次。人们因此开始担忧出现更广泛的冲突。曼德勒和缅甸最大的城市仰光一样，文化非常多元。早在英国开始殖民统治之前，佛教、穆斯林、基督教和印度教社区就杂居在一起，相互为邻。
The violence, which began on Tuesday night, was set off by reports that a Muslim man had raped a Buddhist woman. State media on Thursday identified a Muslim name as that of the suspected rapist.
周二夜间开始的这场暴力冲突的导火索，是有报道称一名穆斯林男子强奸了一名女性佛教徒。官方媒体周四公布的这起强奸案的嫌疑人是一个穆斯林名字。
The minister of security and border affairs in the region, Col. Aung Kyaw Moe, told reporters that in addition to the two deaths — of a Buddhist man and a Muslim man — one mosque had been burned and four others attacked with stones.
该省的安全和边境事务负责人昂觉莫上校(Aung Kyaw Moe)告诉记者，除两人死亡之外，还有一座清真寺被烧毁，另有四人被人用石头攻击。两名死者中，一名是男性佛教徒，另一名是穆斯林男子。
The Burmese news media identified the Buddhist victim as U Tun Tun, a driver for an association that offers free funerals. The Muslim was identified by a friend as U Soe Win, the owner of a bicycle repair shop. He was beaten to death while en route to a mosque for morning prayers, according to the friend, U Nay Oo.
缅甸新闻媒体证实遇难的佛教徒名叫吞吞(Tun Tun)，他为一家提供免费丧葬服务的团体充当司机。一名友人则证实，遇难的那名穆斯林男子是一家自行车维修店的店主梭温(Soe Win)。据这位名为乃吴(Nay Oo)的友人说，梭温是在去清真寺做晨祷的路上被打死的。
Radical Buddhist groups have gained strength in Myanmar in recent years and have stoked violence against Muslims, who are a small minority in the majority-Buddhist country.
近年来，激进的佛教团体在缅甸实力增强，煽动了针对穆斯林的暴力。在这个佛教徒占多数的国家，穆斯林是规模较小的少数群体。
Muslim residents of the multiethnic neighborhood where the attacks took place said Buddhist mobs had destroyed cars and attacked Muslim shops that were only a five-minute walk from a large police station. The police fired rubber bullets in an attempt to quell the violence, but residents complained that they had come too late.
发生袭击的多族群社区的穆斯林居民称，佛教暴徒毁坏多辆汽车，并在距离一座大型警察局步行仅五分钟路程的地方，袭击了一家穆斯林商店。为了平息暴力冲突，警察发射了橡胶子弹，但居民抱怨他们来得太晚了。
“I don’t understand why it took the police 50 minutes to arrive,” said U Nyi Nyi, a Muslim resident who owns a tea shop in the neighborhood. “I don’t understand why police did not arrest members of the mob even though they were just a few feet away from them.”
“我不明白警察为什么50分钟后才到，”在该社区拥有一家茶馆的穆斯林居民尼尼(Nyi Nyi)说。“我不明白警察为什么不抓住这些暴徒，他们之间只有几尺远。”
Mr. Nyi Nyi said that he had witnessed the violence and that the crowds had shouted, “We are Buddhist martyrs!” and “Muslims, be gone!”
尼尼说，他目睹了暴力事件的经过。那些人高呼着“我们是佛教殉道者！”和“穆斯林，滚出去！”的口号。
Religious violence, which has left more than 250 people dead and close to 150,000 homeless since rioting broke out in western Myanmar in June 2012, has been a major setback for Myanmar’s transition from a military dictatorship to democracy.
自2012年6月缅甸西部发生骚乱以来，与宗教相关的暴力冲突已导致超过250人死亡，将近15万人无家可归。这种局面对缅甸由军事独裁国家向民主国家转变的过程，造成了巨大阻碍。