WASHINGTON — Phone records and intercepted calls show that members of Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and other Trump associates had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials in the year before the election, according to four current and former American officials.
华盛顿——据四名现任和前任美国官员称，电话记录和窃听通话表明，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的2016年总统竞选团队成员以及其他相关人员在大选前一年与俄罗斯高级情报官员多次取得联系。
American law enforcement and intelligence agencies intercepted the communications around the same time that they were discovering evidence that Russia was trying to disrupt the presidential election by hacking into the Democratic National Committee, three of the officials said. The intelligence agencies then sought to learn whether the Trump campaign was colluding with the Russians on the hacking or other efforts to influence the election.
三名官员称，在美国执法和情报机构窃听这些通话之时，他们发现有证据表明，俄罗斯在尝试通过黑客袭击民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)的邮箱，从而破坏美国总统大选。之后，情报机构试图弄清特朗普竞选团队是否在黑客袭击或其他影响竞选的行动中与俄罗斯勾结。
The officials interviewed in recent weeks said that, so far, they had seen no evidence of such cooperation.
这几位官员在最近几周的采访中表示，到目前为止，他们还没有发现任何此类勾结的证据。
But the intercepts alarmed American intelligence and law enforcement agencies, in part because of the amount of contact that was occurring while Mr. Trump was speaking glowingly about the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. At one point last summer, Mr. Trump said at a campaign event that he hoped Russian intelligence services had stolen Hillary Clinton’s emails and would make them public.
不过，窃听到的电话内容引起了美国情报和执法机构的警惕，一个原因是很多通话发生在特朗普热情赞扬俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)之时。去年夏天的某个时候，特朗普在一次竞选活动中表示，他希望俄罗斯情报机构已经窃取希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的邮件并公之于众。
The officials said the intercepted communications were not limited to Trump campaign officials, and included other associates of Mr. Trump. On the Russian side, the contacts also included members of the Russian government outside of the intelligence services, the officials said. All of the current and former officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because the continuing investigation is classified.
这些官员称，截获的通信不只牵涉到特朗普的竞选工作人员，还涉及他的其他助手。官员们表示，在俄罗斯一方，这些接触还牵涉到情报机构以外的俄罗斯政府工作人员。由于尚在进行的调查属于机密，所有这些现任官员及前官员均要求匿名。
The officials said that one of the advisers picked up on the calls was Paul Manafort, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman for several months last year and had worked as a political consultant in Russia and Ukraine. The officials declined to identify the other Trump associates on the calls.
官员们说，保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)是接电话的人之一。此人曾在俄罗斯和乌克兰从事政治咨询工作，去年给特朗普当过几个月的竞选经理。官员们拒绝透露与俄方通话的其他特朗普助手的身份。
The call logs and intercepted communications are part of a larger trove of information that the F.B.I. is sifting through as it investigates the links between Mr. Trump’s associates and the Russian government, as well as the D.N.C. hack, according to federal law enforcement officials. As part of its inquiry, the F.B.I. has obtained banking and travel records and conducted interviews, the officials said.
联邦执法官员称，联邦调查局(FBI)正就特朗普的助手与俄罗斯政府以及民主党全国代表大会网络入侵事件之间的关联展开调查，并对更多信息进行筛查，这些通话记录以及被截获的通信亦在其中。官员们称，作为调查的一部分，联邦调查局已经获取了银行和旅行记录，并进行了问讯。
Mr. Manafort, who has not been charged with any crimes, dismissed the accounts of the American officials in a telephone interview on Tuesday. “This is absurd,” he said. “I have no idea what this is referring to. I have never knowingly spoken to Russian intelligence officers, and I have never been involved with anything to do with the Russian government or the Putin administration or any other issues under investigation today.”
马纳福特尚未遭到任何犯罪指控，在周二的电话采访中驳斥了美国官员的说法。“这很荒唐，”他说。“我不知道这指的是什么。我从未有意和俄罗斯情报官员交谈，从未卷入和俄罗斯政府或普京政府有关的任何事情，或者眼下被调查的其他任何问题。”
Mr. Manafort added, “It’s not like these people wear badges that say, ‘I’m a Russian intelligence officer.’”
马纳福特还表示，“这些人又不会戴着徽章跟我说，‘我是一名俄罗斯情报官员。’”
Several of Mr. Trump’s associates, like Mr. Manafort, have done business in Russia, and it is not unusual for American businessmen to come in contact with foreign intelligence officials, sometimes unwittingly, in countries like Russia and Ukraine, where the spy services are deeply embedded in society. Law enforcement officials did not say to what extent the contacts may have been about business.
特朗普的几个助手——比如马纳福特——在俄罗斯做过生意，而在俄罗斯、乌克兰等已经将情报活动深深嵌入社会的国家，美国商人在不知情的情况下和外国情报官员发生接触并不奇怪。执法官员没透露这些接触在多大程度上与生意有关。
Officials would not disclose many details, including what was discussed on the calls, which Russian intelligence officials were on the calls, and how many of Mr. Trump’s advisers were talking to the Russians. It is also unclear whether the conversations had anything to do with Mr. Trump himself.
官员们不愿披露太多细节，包括通话的具体内容是什么，参与通话的有哪些俄罗斯情报官员，以及特朗普的顾问中有多少人和俄罗斯人交谈过。同样尚不清楚的是，这些通话在多大程度上和特朗普本人有关。
A published report from American intelligence agencies that was made public in January concluded that the Russian government had intervened in the election in part to help Mr. Trump, but did not address whether any members of the Trump campaign had participated in the effort.
于1月份被公开的一份来自美国情报机构的报告得出结论，俄罗斯政府曾干预美国大选，部分是为了帮助特朗普。但报告并未指出特朗普竞选团队的成员是否曾参与其中。
The intercepted calls are different from the wiretapped conversations last year between Michael T. Flynn, President Trump’s former national security adviser, and Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States. During those calls, which led to Mr. Flynn’s resignation on Monday night, the two men discussed sanctions that the Obama administration imposed on Russia in December.
被截获的电话不同于特朗普的前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)和俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergei I. Kislyak)去年的那些被窃听的对话。在导致弗林于周一晚间辞职的通话中，两人讨论了奥巴马政府于去年12月对俄罗斯实施的制裁。
But the cases are part of the routine electronic surveillance of communications of foreign officials by American intelligence and law enforcement agencies.
不过，上述情况都是美国情报和执法机构对外国官员的通信进行常规电子监控时发现的。
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The F.B.I. declined to comment.
白宫未立即回复置评请求。联邦调查局拒绝置评。
Two days after the election in November, Sergei A. Ryabkov, the deputy Russian foreign minister, said that “there were contacts” during the campaign between Russian officials and Mr. Trump’s team.
去年11月，俄罗斯副外长谢尔盖·A·亚布科夫(Sergei A. Ryabkov)在美国大选日两天后表示，选举期间，俄罗斯官员和特朗普的团队“有过接触”。
“Obviously, we know most of the people from his entourage,” Mr. Ryabkov said in an interview with the Russian Interfax news agency.
“显然，我们认识他的大多数助手，”亚布科夫接受俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)采访时说。
The Trump transition team denied Mr. Ryabkov’s statement. “This is not accurate,” Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, said at the time.
特朗普过渡团队否认了亚布科夫的话。“这种说法并不准确，”特朗普的发言人霍普·希克斯(Hope Hicks)当时表示。
The National Security Agency, which monitors the communications of foreign intelligence services, initially captured the communications between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russians as part of routine foreign surveillance. After that, the F.B.I. asked the N.S.A. to collect as much information as possible about the Russian operatives on the phone calls, and to search through troves of previous intercepted communications that had not been analyzed.
负责监控外国情报机构通信的国家安全局(National Security Agency)，最初是在针对外国目标的常规监控中截获了特朗普的助手和俄罗斯人之间的通信。随后，FBI提请国家安全局尽可能多地搜集参与这些通话的俄罗斯特工的信息，并筛查以前截获的大量尚未被分析的通信。
The F.B.I. has closely examined at least three other people close to Mr. Trump, although it is unclear if their calls were intercepted. They are Carter Page, a businessman and former foreign policy adviser to the campaign; Roger Stone, a longtime Republican operative; and Mr. Flynn.
FBI密切关注着至少另外三名和特朗普关系密切的人士，但尚不清楚其电话是否遭到了窃听。他们当中有：曾任特朗普竞选团队外交政策顾问的商人卡特·佩奇(Carter Page)，长期为共和党工作的罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)，以及弗林。
All of the men have strongly denied they had any improper contacts with Russian officials.
这些人均强烈否认与俄罗斯官员有过任何不当接触。