BEIJING — A coastal desalination plant planned for east of Beijing could provide a large portion of the drinking water for the parched Chinese capital by 2019, the state news media quoted officials as saying on Tuesday. The reports indicated that the government and state enterprises were investing heavily in desalination projects to alleviate a dire water shortage in northern China.
北京——中国官方媒体周二援引多名官员透露的消息报道，计划在北京以东兴建的一座海水淡化工厂有望在2019年为这个干旱的首都提供很大一部分饮用水。报道指出，政府与国企正在大举投资海水淡化项目，希望缓解华北地区严重的水资源短缺问题。
The reports, citing officials who spoke over the weekend and on Monday, said that the proposed plant, to be located in the city of Tangshan in Hebei Province, had already been approved by a provincial development agency. The plan is to complete construction of the plant by 2019 and for it to supply one million tons of fresh water each day, which could account for one-third of the water consumption of Beijing, a city of more than 22 million people, officials said. A headline on an article published by Global Times, said, “Seawater to Supply Beijing in 2019.”
这些报道援引官员在周末期间及周一的讲话称，按照规划，这座工厂将坐落于河北省唐山市，并已获得省发改委的批准。官方还表示，计划工厂在2019年完工，每天供应100万吨淡水，或可满足北京逾2200万人口的三分之一的用水需求。《环球时报》英文版的一篇报道的大标题是《2019年海水进京》(Seawater to Supply Beijing in 2019)。
The plant would be the core of one of the biggest desalination projects in China. It is the second phase of a desalination project that is run by Aqbewg, a joint venture company formed by Aqualyng, a Norwegian company, and Beijing Enterprises Water Group, which has its headquarters in Hong Kong and is a subsidiary of a large state-owned company.
这座工厂将成为中国最大的海水淡化工程之一的核心部分，为北控阿科凌(Aqbewg)的海水淡化项目的第二期。北控阿科凌是挪威企业阿科凌(Aqualyng)与北控水务集团有限公司的合资企业。后者的总部位于香港，是一家大型国企的分支。
The first phase of the project, a plant east of Beijing in a district of Tangshan called Caofeidian, already produces about 50,000 tons of water each day for the district’s use, officials said. The water comes from Bo Hai, a body of water just off the Yellow Sea in northeastern China. The second, larger plant would cost an estimated $1.1 billion, and the pipelines to Beijing, about 170 miles long, would cost $1.6 billion, the state news media reports said.
官员们表示，项目一期在北京以东的唐山市曹妃甸区兴建了一座工厂，已在日产5万吨淡水，供给本区使用。其中的海水来自渤海。渤海位于中国东北部，紧邻黄海。根据官方媒体的报道，规划中的二期工程规模更大，预计造价为70亿元人民币，而连接到北京的270公里管线的预计造价则为100亿元。
The price for the water in Beijing would be $1.29 per ton, twice as much as the current price of tap water, the reports said.
报道还说，海水进京的成本约为每吨8元，是目前居民自来水价的两倍。
Northern China has been suffering for many years from a chronic drought, and officials in the central and local governments have been desperately searching for ways to bring drinking water to the most populated areas.
多年以来，华北地区饱受干旱问题的困扰，而中央与地方政府官员一直在迫切地寻找为人口最为密集的区域提供饮用水的途径。
The affected areas include Beijing and Tianjin, which has 12 million people. Tianjin has a $4 billion desalination plant that uses Israeli equipment and is owned by a government-run conglomerate. In 2011, that plant — the Beijiang Power and Desalination Plant — was one of two in Tianjin and supplied a suburb with 10,000 tons of desalted water daily. It plans to expand the amount pumped daily to 180,000 tons.
受影响的地区包括北京，以及人口1200万的天津。天津的一座造价260亿元人民币的工厂拥有海水淡化项目，采用以色列的设备，隶属于一家国有大型集团。2011年，这座北疆发电厂拥有天津的两个淡化工程之一，每天向郊区供应1万吨淡化水。工厂计划将日输水量提高到18万吨。
The desalination projects are in addition to an enormous engineering feat called the South-North Water Diversion Project, which aims to transport at least six trillion gallons of water each year to northern China from the Yangtze River and its tributaries, which are in southern China. That project consists of a series of canals and dams costing an estimated $62 billion.
除了海水淡化项目，还有一项名为“南水北调”的浩大工程，旨在从中国南方的长江及其支流向北方调水，年输水量至少达200亿立方米。这项工程包含一系列的渠道与大坝建设，预计造价约4000亿元。
The eastern and middle routes have been under construction for years and have gone over budget, while a western route crossing the high and rugged Tibetan plateau is still only in the proposal stage.
东线工程与中线工程已建设多年，并且超出了预算。西线工程则要穿越高耸而崎岖的青藏高原，仍处于规划阶段。
In December, the Chinese government announced that the first phase of the eastern route had officially begun drawing water from the Yangtze and transporting it to Dezhou, in the northeastern province of Shandong. Once finished, the eastern route will have 912 miles of canals and waterways.
去年12月，中国政府宣布，东线工程一期正式开始引水，从长江输水到北部省份山东的德州。完全竣工后，东线工程将有1467公里长的运河与水道干线。
The middle route, runs more than 800 miles from Hubei Province to Beijing. The plans call for the relocation of about 350,000 villagers to make way for the canal.
中线工程全长1200多公里，从湖北省调水至北京。根据规划，它还需要搬迁约35万农村居民来为渠道让路。
Since it began operation in September 2008, a so-called emergency supplement to the middle route that diverts water to Beijing from reservoirs in Hebei Province, which surrounds Beijing, has provided the Chinese capital with 1.5 billion cubic meters, or 400 billion gallons, of water, Global Times reported.
《环球时报》的报道称，自从2008年9月开始运行以来，中线京石段应急供水工程已向首都供水15亿立方米。这项工程从首都周边的河北省的水库向北京调水。