CAIRO — An Egyptian jetliner carrying 66 people from Paris to Cairoabruptly swerved, vanished from radar and plunged into the Mediterranean early Thursday, shortly before it was scheduled to land.
开罗——周四凌晨，一架载有66人的埃及客机从巴黎飞往开罗的途中，在预定降落时间之前不久突然转弯，从雷达上消失，坠入地中海。
Egyptian officials issued conflicting information about whether wreckage had been found and suggested terrorism was a more likely cause than technical failure.
对于残骸是否已经找到，埃及官员发出了相互矛盾的信息。他们还表示，比起技术故障，坠机原因更有可能是恐怖袭击。
The loss of the flight, EgyptAir 804, was the second civilian aviation disaster for Egypt in the past year. It immediately resurrected fears and speculation about the safety and security of Egyptian air travel and broader questions about terrorism against civilian air travel.
埃及航空公司804航班的失事，是埃及民航在一年之内遭遇的第二次空难。它立刻唤起了人们的担忧与猜测，不仅针对埃及航空旅行的安全和保障，还涉及到更大层面的恐怖主义威胁民用航班安全的问题。
Egypt and Greece mounted an intense search-and-rescue operation in the southern Aegean Sea, and, on Thursday afternoon, the Greek authorities said debris believed to be from the wreckage had been found at a site around 205 nautical miles southeast of Crete and 190 nautical miles south of the Greek island of Karpathos.
埃及和希腊在爱琴海南部开展了紧张的搜救行动。周四下午，希腊当局表示，在克里特岛东南205海里、卡尔帕索斯岛以南109海里的某处找到了一些残骸，据信属于这架飞机。
EgyptAir reported “the finding of wreckage of the missing aircraft” in a Twitter posting. But hours later EgyptAir’s vice chairman, Ahmed Adel, was quoted by CNN as saying no wreckage had been found yet.
埃及航空公司(EgyptAir)在Twitter上称“失踪飞机残骸找到”。但数小时后，CNN引述埃及航空副董事长艾哈迈德·阿德尔(Ahmed Adel)的话说，尚未发现该航班的残骸。
“We stand corrected on finding the wreckage because what we identified is not a part of our plane,” he was quoted as saying. “So the search and rescue is still going on.”
“我们纠正了找到飞机残骸的说法，因为确认它们不属于我们的飞机，”CNN引述他的话报道。“因此搜救仍在进行中。”
The Egyptian civil aviation minister, Sherif Fathi, told a news conference in Cairo that it was premature to draw conclusions about the cause of the crash, but he quickly acknowledged that it might be terrorism.
埃及民航部长谢里夫·法特希(Sherif Fathy)在开罗举行的新闻发布会上告诉记者，目前得出坠机原因的结论为时过早，但他也当即承认，可能是恐怖主义。
The jetliner, an Airbus A320, departed Paris at 11:09 p.m. on Wednesday. The pilot spoke to Greek air traffic controllers at 2:26 a.m. and nothing seemed out of the ordinary, officials said. Three or four minutes later, the plane made its last normal radar contact.
这是一架空客A320客机，周三夜里11时09分从巴黎起飞。官员称，凌晨2时26分，飞行员还与希腊空中交通管制员进行过交谈，似乎没有什么异常。三四分钟后，飞机进行了最后一次正常的雷达联系。
At 2:37 a.m., shortly after entering Egyptian airspace, the plane made a 90-degree turn to the left and then a full circle to the right, first plunging to 15,000 feet from 37,000 feet and then to 9,000 feet. At that point it disappeared from radar, the Greek defense minister, Panos Kammenos, said at a news conference on Thursday afternoon.
凌晨2点37分，在进入埃及领空后不久，飞机突然向左90度大转弯，然后向右绕了一整圈，高度从3.7万英尺骤降到1.5万英尺，然后又降至9000英尺。希腊国防部长帕诺斯·卡梅诺斯(Panos Kammenos)在周四下午的新闻发布会上表示，就在这时它从雷达上消失了。
Flight 804 was carrying 56 passengers, including three children; seven crew members; and three members of airline security personnel. 
埃航804航班上载有56名乘客，其中包括三名儿童；此外还有七名机组人员，以及三名航空安全人员。