WASHINGTON — President Trump boasted about highly classified intelligence in a meeting with the Russian foreign minister and ambassador last week, providing details that could expose the source of the information and the manner in which it was collected, a current and a former American government official said Monday.
华盛顿——一名现任和一名前任美国政府官员本周一表示，特朗普在上周与俄罗斯外长和大使会晤时，向对方炫耀高度机密的情报，他提到的细节可能会暴露情报的来源和收集方式。
The intelligence disclosed by Mr. Trump in a meeting with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, and Sergey I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador to the United States, was about an Islamic State plot, according to the officials. A foreign ally that closely guards its own secrets provided the information, which was considered so sensitive that American officials did not share it widely within the United States government or pass it on to other allies.
据这两名官员表示，特朗普在和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V.Lavrov)、俄罗斯驻美国大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)会面时曝光的情报，与伊斯兰国的一个阴谋有关。这些情报由一个盟国提供，他们自己对此严格保密。该情报被视为高度机密，所以就连在美国政府中都没有广泛分享过，也没向其他盟友提供过。
Mr. Trump’s disclosure does not appear to have been illegal — the president has the power to declassify almost anything. But sharing the information without the express permission of the ally who provided it represented a major breach of espionage etiquette, and could jeopardize a crucial intelligence-sharing relationship.
特朗普披露这个信息貌似也不违法，因为总统有权力解密几乎任何东西。但是在没有获得盟友的明确许可下分享这种信息，是对间谍活动规矩的严重破坏，可能危及重要的情报共享关系。
The ally, which has shared information in the past with the United States only to see it leaked, has repeatedly warned American officials that it would cut off access to such sensitive information if it were shared too widely, said the former official. In this case, the fear is that Russia will be able to determine exactly how the information was collected and could disrupt the ally’s espionage efforts.
那名前官员说，这个盟友过去分享给美国的信息就出现过泄漏，因此已经多次警告美国官员说，如果四处分享，他们以后就不再向美方提供这种敏感信息了。在这次的事情中，让人担心的是俄罗斯可以分析出这些信息是如何收集的，并且有可能危害该盟友的间谍工作。
Beyond angering a partner and calling into question the ability of the United States to keep secrets, the episode also opens Mr. Trump to criticism of a double standard. The president made Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information through her private email server central to his campaign, leading chants of “lock of her up” at rallies. But there was never any indication that Mrs. Clinton exposed sensitive information from an ally or gave it to an adversary.
除了激怒盟友、让美国的保密能力遭受质疑之外，这一事件也会让特朗普遭受“双重标准”的批评。希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)不恰当地使用私人电邮服务器处理机密信息一事，曾是特朗普竞选活动的焦点之一，人们在他的竞选集会上反复高喊“把她关起来”。但是，从来没有任何迹象表明克林顿暴露过盟友的敏感信息，或者把它们透露给敌国。
The Trump administration pushed back on the revelation, with high-ranking officials denying that the president discussed such highly sensitive information with the Russian officials.
特朗普政府反驳了这种说法，一些高级官员否认总统与俄罗斯官员讨论过如此高度敏感的信息。
“The president and the foreign minister reviewed common threats from terrorist organizations to include threats to aviation,” said H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser, who attended the meeting. “At no time were any intelligence sources or methods discussed, and no military operations were disclosed that were not already known publicly.”
“总统和俄罗斯外交部长检视了恐怖组织造成的普遍威胁，包括对航空的威胁。”出席会议的国家安全顾问H·R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)说：“会面中从来没有讨论过任何情报来源或收集方法，也没有披露任何尚未公开的军事行动。”
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson echoed General McMaster, saying a range of subjects came up, including “the nature of specific threats,” but not sources, methods or military operations.
国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)的说法也和麦克马斯特将军类似，他表示，双方谈到了一系列问题，包括“一些具体威胁属于何种性质”，但没有谈到过情报来源、收集方法或军事行动。
But according to the officials, Mr. Trump discussed the contents of the intelligence, not the sources and methods used to collect it. The concern is that knowledge of the information about the Islamic State plot could allow the Russians to figure out the sources and methods.
但根据一些官员的说法，特朗普虽然没有讨论情报来源和收集方法，但讨论了情报的内容。这就让人担心，俄罗斯人可能会从这些涉及伊斯兰国的情报中查出情报来源和方法。
“This story is false. The president only discussed the common threats that both countries faced,” said Dina Powell, the deputy national security adviser, who was also at the meeting.
“这不属实。”出席了该会议的副国家安全顾问戴安·鲍威尔(Dina Powell)说，总统仅仅讨论了两国面临的共同威胁。
The Washington Post first reported the disclosure, which immediately reverberated around Washington.
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)率先报道此事之后，立刻在华盛顿引发强烈反应。
“To compromise a source is something that you just don’t do, and that’s why we keep the information that we get from intelligence sources so close as to prevent that from happening,” Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters.
“危及情报来源的事情千万不能做，这就是为什么我们对情报来源提供的信息守口如瓶，防止这种情况发生的原因。”参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)主席、田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)告诉记者。
Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and the vice chairman of the Intelligence Committee, said on Twitter, “If true, this is a slap in the face to the intel community. Risking sources & methods is inexcusable, particularly with the Russians.”
弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员、情报委员会副主席马克·华纳(Mark Warner)在Twitter上表示：“如果事情属实，这就是扇了情报界一记耳光。危及情报来源和收集方法是不可原谅的，特别是在俄罗斯人面前。”
The Central Intelligence Agency declined to comment.
中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)拒绝对此事置评。