PARIS — Three teams of Islamic State attackers acting in unison carried out the terrorist assault in Paris on Friday night, officials said Saturday, including one assailant who may have traveled to Europe on a Syrian passport along with the flow of migrants.
巴黎——官员们在周六表示，三组伊斯兰国袭击者周五晚间在巴黎一起发动恐怖袭击，其中一名持有叙利亚护照的袭击者可能与移民一起进入欧洲。
“It is an act of war that was committed by a terrorist army, a jihadist army, Daesh, against France,” President François Hollande of France told the nation from the Élysée Palace, using an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. “It is an act of war that was prepared, organized and planned from abroad, with complicity from the inside, which the investigation will help establish.”
“这是恐怖主义军队、圣战军队达伊沙(Daesh)对法国实施的战争行为，”法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在爱舍丽宫(Élysée Palace)向全国表示。“这是由外部准备、组织和计划，从内部配合的一场战争行为，调查将会予以证实。”奥朗德使用的"Daesh"是伊斯兰国的阿拉伯语缩写。
As the death toll rose to 129 — with 352 others wounded, 99 of them critically — a basic timeline of the attacks came into view.
随着死亡人数升至129人——还有352人受伤，其中99人情况危急，袭击行动的基本时间线变得清晰。
The Paris prosecutor, François Molins, said the attackers were all armed with heavy weaponry and suicide vests. Their assault began at 9:20 p.m. Friday, when one terrorist detonated a suicide bomb outside the gates of the soccer stadium on the northern outskirts of Paris. It ended at 12:20 a.m. Saturday when the authorities stormed a concert hall, the Bataclan. One attacker there was killed; two others detonated suicide vests. Inside the hall, 89 people, who had been listening to a rock band, had been shot to death.
巴黎检察官弗朗索瓦·莫林斯(François Molins)表示，攻击者携带重型武器和自杀式背心。袭击行动从周五晚上9点20分开始，当时一名恐怖分子在巴黎北部郊区的足球场外引爆自杀式炸弹。当局于周六凌晨12点20分强攻巴塔克兰(Bataclan)音乐厅，袭击行动结束。音乐厅的一名攻击者被击毙，其他两人引爆自杀式背心。在音乐厅内，89名正在欣赏摇滚乐队演唱的听众遭到枪击身亡。
The man with the Syrian passport — which Greek officials said had been registered at the Aegean island of Leros on Oct. 3 — was 25, and died at the stadium. Another assailant, who died at the concert hall, was 29 and a native of Courcouronnes, about 20 miles south of Paris. He had a criminal record and was known to be involved in extremist Islamic ideology, Molins said.
持叙利亚护照的男子现年25岁，在体育场被击毙，希腊官员称该男子于10月3日在爱琴海莱罗斯岛登记。另一名在音乐厅死亡的袭击者现年29岁，是库尔库罗尼斯(Courcouronnes)本地人，该区位于巴黎南部大约20英里处。莫林斯表示，他曾有犯罪记录，受到伊斯兰极端思想影响。
The hunt for possible accomplices of the terrorists gained steam Saturday. Officials in Belgium announced three arrests, one of them linked to a rental car found in Paris. In Germany, the police were exploring whether a man they arrested last week with weapons in his car and his GPS navigator set for Paris was linked to the attacks. But it remained unclear how a plot of such sophistication and lethality could have escaped the notice of intelligence agencies, both in France and abroad.
周六，追捕恐怖分子其他同谋的行动取得进展。比利时官员宣布逮捕三名嫌疑人，其中一人与在巴黎发现的一辆租赁车辆有关。在德国，警方正在调查上周逮捕的男子是否与该袭击事件有关，该男子车上载有武器，GPS导航仪设定的目的地是巴黎。但目前尚不清楚，如此复杂、极其危险的阴谋如何会逃脱法国及外国情报机构的注意。
Hollande declared three days of national mourning, and said that military troops would patrol the capital. France remained under a nationwide state of emergency.
奥朗德宣布全国哀悼三天，并表示，军队士兵将在首都巡逻。法国全国仍处于紧急状态。
Hollande vowed to “be unforgiving with the barbarians from Daesh,” adding that France would act within the law but with “all the necessary means, and on all terrains, inside and outside, in coordination with our allies, who are, themselves, targeted by this terrorist threat.”
奥朗德发誓“绝不原谅达伊沙的野蛮人”，他还表示，法国将在法律范围内采取行动，但“将会采用所有必要手段，在国内外的所有地区与那些遭受恐怖威胁的盟友协作打击恐怖势力。”
The attacks, and the possibility that the Islamic State was to blame, promised to further traumatize France and other European countries already fearful of violent jihadis radicalized by the conflicts in Syria and elsewhere.
袭击事件的发生，以及伊斯兰国可能为此负责的事实，会给法国及其他对暴力圣战分子感到恐惧的欧洲国家进一步造成精神创伤，叙利亚及其他地区的冲突致使这些圣战分子更加激进。
The possibility that one of the attackers was a migrant or had posed as one is sure to further complicate the already vexing problem for Europe of how to handle the unceasing flow of people from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. It could also lend weight to the xenophobic arguments of right-wing populists like Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front party, who on Saturday held a news conference to declare that “France and the French are no longer safe.”
其中一名袭击者可能是移民，或者假装成移民，这肯定会进一步加剧如何应对不断涌入的叙利亚、伊拉克、阿富汗及其他地方的难民的问题，这原本就让欧洲头痛不已。这还可能强化国民阵线(National Front)领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)等右翼民粹主义者的排外思想，勒庞周六举行新闻发布会，宣称“法国和法国人民不再安全”。
Hollande actively stepped up French participation in the military air campaign in Syria at the end of September. Just last week, France attacked oil operations under the Islamic State's control in Syria. On Oct. 8, it conducted a targeted strike against militants in Raqqa, Syria, apparently targeting Salim Benghalem, a Frenchman fighting for the Islamic State.
奥朗德积极加大法国参与9月末在叙利亚开展的军事空中行动的力度。上周，法国对叙利亚地区由伊斯兰国控制的油田开展攻击。10月8日，法国对叙利亚拉卡的武装分子发动具有针对性的攻击，似乎是为了除掉为伊斯兰国作战的法国人萨利姆·班哈勒姆(Salim Benghalem)。
The attacks, and the threat of the Islamic State, are likely to dominate a summit meeting of leaders of the Group of 20 nations that starts on Sunday in Turkey. President Barack Obama will attend; Hollande is staying in Paris and sending representatives.
该袭击事件及伊斯兰国的威胁可能会成为周日在土耳其召开的20国集团领导人峰会的主题。贝拉克·奥巴马总统将会参加峰会；奥朗德将会留在巴黎，派代表出席会议。
Paris, stricken by shock and grief, remained in a state of lockdown, with public transportation hobbled and public institutions — schools, museums, libraries, pools, food markets — closed. Charles de Gaulle Airport remained open, but with significant delays because of tighter passport and baggage checks.
深陷震惊和悲痛之中的巴黎仍处于禁闭状态，公共交通受阻，公共场所——学校、博物馆、图书馆、泳池和食品市场——被关闭。查尔斯·戴高乐机场(Charles de Gaulle Airport)仍然开放，但由于机场加强对护照及行李的检查，出现了严重的延误情况。
The archbishop of Paris, Cardinal André Vingt-Trois, said he would celebrate a Mass at the Cathedral of Notre-Dame on Sunday for the victims, their families and France.
巴黎大主教、枢机主教安德烈·万特鲁瓦(André Vingt-Trois)表示，他周日将在巴黎圣母院(Cathedral of Notre-Dame)为遇难者及其亲属和法国举行弥撒。
“Our country has once again known pain and mourning and must stand up to the barbarism propagated by fanatical groups,” he said.
他说，“我们的国家再次陷入痛苦和悲哀，我们必须顽强抵抗狂热组织扩展的暴行。”
At the Hôpital Européen Georges-Pompidou in west Paris, about 40 people were in surgery as of the early afternoon. Julien Ribes, 33, was at the hospital to search for his friend, who was at the concert hall. “I'm in total shock,” he said.
截至午后不久，在巴黎西部的乔治-蓬皮杜欧洲医院(Hôpital Européen Georges-Pompidou in west Paris)，约有40人正在接受手术。33岁的朱利安·里布(Julien Ribes)来到医院寻找当时在音乐厅的女友。他说，“我感到非常震惊。”
At the Town Hall for the 11th Arrondissement in Paris, Delphine de Peretti, 35, said she had learned early Saturday afternoon that her sister Aurélie, who was at the Bataclan music hall, had been killed. The family had been desperately trying to reach Aurélie all night.
在巴黎十一区市政厅，35岁的德尔菲娜·德佩雷蒂(Delphine de Peretti)表示，她在周六午后不久得知妹妹奥雷莉(Aurélie)在巴塔克兰音乐厅遇难。家人整夜拼命联系奥雷莉。
“They told us my sister was dead, but they did not let us see her,” she said. “They said they still have to do some medical analysis. I am like a robot. I don't know what to do next. I have not watched the news or slept since last night.”
“他们说我妹妹已经遇难了，但不让我们见她，”德佩雷蒂说。“他们说，他们还需要做一些医学分析。我就像是一个机器人。我不知道接下来做什么。我从昨晚开始就没有看新闻或睡觉。”
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany gave an emotional national address Saturday pledging solidarity with the French government and people, and calling on Europeans to stand together in defiance of an attack on the liberties the continent represents.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)周六发表了具有感染力的全国演讲，承诺德国将与法国政府及人民团结一致，呼吁欧洲人携手抵抗针对欧洲大陆所代表的自由精神的攻击行动。
“We, your German friends, we are so close with you,” said Merkel, dressed in black. “We are crying with you. Together with you, we will fight against those who have carried out such an unfathomable act against you.”
“我们德国，作为法国的亲密朋友，”一袭黑衣的默克尔说道。“我们与你们一同哭泣。我们还将与法国一道，与那些实施如此惨无人道的行为的恐怖分子作斗争。”
“Those who we mourn were murdered in front of cafes, in restaurants, in a concert hall or on the open street. They wanted to live the life of free people in a city that celebrates life,” she said, her voice breaking. “And they met with murderers who hate this life of freedom.”
“我们哀悼的这些人在咖啡馆、餐厅、音乐厅或大街上被杀害。他们本想在这个热爱生活的城市过着自由人的生活，”她声音微颤地说道。“但他们遇到了憎恨这种自由生活的谋杀犯。”