ORLANDO, Fla. — The killer who went on a rampage at a gay nightclub early Sunday told the police he would strap explosives to four hostages and strategically place them in the corners of the building, Orlando’s mayor said Wednesday, shedding some light on the decision to send a SWAT team into the building as well as the delay in removing the dead.
佛罗里达州奥兰多——奥兰多市长周三称，于周日凌晨袭击一家同性恋夜店的杀手曾告诉警方，他会把炸药绑在四名人质身上，并将人质精心安置在夜店的不同角落。这也解释了警方决定派特警队进入夜店，并且没有迅速挪走尸体的原因。
The mayor, Buddy Dyer, also confirmed that the gunman, Omar Mateen, 29, had been driving around that night visiting locations, apparently casing potential targets for a massacre. The mayor spoke to reporters after a news conference to announce the opening of a victims’ assistance center at Camping World Stadium, formerly known as the Citrus Bowl.
巴迪·戴尔(Buddy Dyer)市长还确认，29岁的枪手奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)在当晚早些时候驱车去了几个地点，似乎是在物色潜在的屠杀目标。向记者披露上述信息前，戴尔市长参加了一个新闻发布会——奥兰多市宣布，将在原名为柑橘碗体育场(Citrus Bowl)的露营世界体育场(Camping World Stadium)开设一个受害者援助中心。
Over the course of several hours after Mateen attacked the Pulse nightclub and took hostages, he told police negotiators that he planned to strap bombs to four people. In phone calls and text messages to 911 operators, friends and family members, people trapped inside the club, who heard statements the killer was making, also warned of explosives.
在袭击Pulse夜店并劫持了人质后的几个小时里，马廷对警方谈判人员表示，他打算把炸弹绑在四名人质的身上。听到杀手说话内容的被困人员在给911接线员、朋友和家人打电话和发短信时，也警告称现场有炸药。
“We had independent verification of that,” Dyer said. “We had a lot of information from the inside, and they independently were saying yes, the bomber is about to put on an explosive vest.”
“我们独立地核实了这个消息，”戴尔说。“我们收到了很多来自里面的消息，他们分别都在说，是的，凶手正打算穿上炸弹背心。”
John Mina, the city police chief, has said that after a three-hour standoff, law enforcement officials made the decision to storm the club using explosives and an armored vehicle because they had reason to believe they were facing an “imminent loss of life,” but he did not elaborate.
该市警察局长约翰·米那(John Mina)表示，经过三小时的僵持后，执法人员决定用炸药和一辆装甲车对夜店发起猛攻，因为他们有理由相信当时面临的情况是“即将有人丧命”，但他未详细说明。
Mateen’s assault on Pulse left 49 people dead and 53 wounded. Mateen used both an assault weapon and a handgun in the attack.
马廷对Pulse的袭击导致49人死亡，53人受伤。在袭击中，他使用了一把突击步枪和一把手枪。
Survivors of the siege have said that Mateen, who died in a shootout with police, talked of accomplices as well as bombs — snipers who he said were prepared to gun people down.
幸存者称，在和警方的枪战中被击毙的马廷谈到了炸弹和共犯，即他口中准备向人们开枪的狙击手。
The concern that explosives might also be at play grew after Mateen was killed, the mayor said.
该市市长称，马廷死后，对炸药可能受到使用的担忧有所加深。
“When the shooter was killed you could see a battery pack right next to him, which would indicate to us that there’s a detonator of some sort,” Dyer said.
“枪手被击毙后，可以看到就在他身旁有一个电池组，这向我们表明，存在某种引爆装置，”戴尔说。
The mayor did not clarify whether any explosives were discovered or if Mateen had been bluffing.
他未明确表示是否发现了炸药，或马廷是否只是在虚张声势。