The driver of a bus that erupted in flames in southwestern China on Monday afternoon stayed aboard the blazing vehicle as he used a fire extinguisher, smashed a window with a safety hammer to create an exit and then helped passengers leave the conflagration, a municipal government statement said on Tuesday.
周一下午，中国西南部一座城市的一辆公交车起火，司机留在燃烧的车厢内，他先用灭火器灭火，后用安全锤砸碎车窗玻璃开辟了一个出口，帮助乘客逃离火场，当地市政府周二在一份声明中这样说。
The driver, Xiao Kunming, suffered severe injuries staying aboard the bus, and is now being treated at a hospital and unable to give interviews, according to statements issued on the Weibo microblogging site by the municipal press office of Yibin, the town in the southwestern province of Sichuan where the incident occurred.
这位名叫肖坤明的司机因为留在车内而受重伤，目前正在医院就治，无法接受采访，宜宾市政府新闻办在其新浪微博的通告中表示。宜宾是位于西南部四川省的一个城市，是起火事件的发生地。
The driver’s actions, filmed by the camera system on the bus, come as international attention has focused on the responsibilities of transportation personnel during deadly incidents, and they are likely to draw a favorable contrast with the departure of crew members from a capsizing South Korean ferry last month.
这位司机的行为被车内摄像头记录下来，当前国际上正在关注发生灾难时公共交通工具上人员的责任问题，此事件可能会与上月韩国一艘侧翻船只上的船员弃船而逃的行为形成正面的对比。
The South Korean authorities have been investigating whether the crew members made sufficient effort to evacuate hundreds of passengers, mostly high school students, who were told to stay in their cabins as the vessel slowly turned over and sank. As of Tuesday, 275 bodies had been found and 29 were still missing.
韩国当局正在调查那艘船上的船员是否为撤离数百名乘客做出了足够的努力，船上的乘客大部分是高中学生，他们在船体缓慢侧翻并下沉的时候被告知不要出船舱。截至周二，已经找到了275具尸体，仍有29人失踪。
The bus blast and subsequent fire on Monday afternoon in Yibin killed a man suspected of causing the blaze, and injured 77 people, 12 of whom are in intensive care at a hospital, state-controlled media said on Tuesday.
宜宾市一辆公交车周一下午发生爆炸后起火，大火导致一名涉嫌纵火的男子死亡，以及77人受伤，其中有12人处于医院重症监护下，国家媒体周二报道。
The official China Daily newspaper identified the dead arson suspect as a man named Yu Yuehai, but released no details about him other than his age, 51.
国家媒体《中国日报》确认了纵火犯罪嫌疑人的身份，他叫余跃海，现年51岁，但除此之外，没有披露其他细节。
The high toll of injured included rescuers who were harmed in responding to the blaze, in addition to the 50 passengers who were on the bus when the blaze erupted at 4:50 p.m.
在颇高的受伤人数中，除了车上的50名乘客之外，还包括前来灭火而受伤的救援人员，汽车起火时间是下午4点50分。
So many people were injured that the city has been in urgent need of blood, particularly type O and A, the Yibin municipal press office said on Weibo. Residents have been flocking to give blood, and four additional blood donation sites were opened on Tuesday morning, the press office said.
宜宾市政府新闻办在微博上说，由于受伤人数相当高，该市急需大量临床用血，特别是O型和A型血。新闻办称，该市居民踊跃献血，有关部门周二上午新设立了四个献血点。
The press office said in separate postings that someone deliberately started a fire near a middle door of the bus. The driver used a fire extinguisher in an attempt to extinguish the blaze. Unsuccessful, he then broke a window with a safety hammer and helped passengers escape.
市新闻办在另一篇帖子中说，有人在公交车中门附近故意点火。司机使用灭火器试图将火扑灭，但未成功，随后他用安全锤砸碎了一个车窗的玻璃，帮助乘客逃生。