BEIJING — Bowing to two weeks of rising public pressure in China, the Swedish furniture maker Ikea on Tuesday said it would extend its recent recall to a country where so far it has enjoyed strong sales.
北京——瑞典家具制造商宜家(Ikea)迫于两周来不断上涨的中国公众压力于周二表示，将把近期一次召回的范围扩大到公司迄今为止一直享有强劲销售额的中国。
The move marks the latest sign of the growing power of the Chinese consumer, whose spending has fattened the bottom line of foreign and domestic companies alike but who has also shown a desire for safety and quality.
此举是中国消费者影响力不断增长的最新标志，他们的开支为国内外公司的最终赢利做出贡献，但中国消费者也渴望得到安全和高质量的产品。
Two weeks ago, Ikea recalled 29 million pieces of furniture in the United States, where safety officials have blamed chests and dressers for the deaths of at least six toddlers in falling accidents. Ikea initially excluded China and Europe from the recall, saying that its products sold in those regions satisfied local regulations. On Tuesday, following criticism online and Chinese media, Ikea switched course, saying it would recall 1.7 million chests and dressers in China.
两周前，宜家在美国召回了2900万件家具，美国的安全官员指责宜家的抽屉柜导致至少六名幼儿意外死亡。宜家最初的召回范围不包括中国和欧洲，公司表示，在中国和欧洲出售的产品符合当地的法规。受到来自网上和中国媒体的批评之后，宜家在周二改变了做法，表示将召回在中国出售的170万件抽屉柜。
“Ikea is a very responsible company,” said Xian Jiaxin, a company spokeswoman, in an interview. “Consumer safety is very important to us, which is how we came to this decision.” The recall still will not be extended to the European Union, she said.
“宜家是一个非常负责任的公司，”公司发言人显家鑫在接受采访时说。“消费者的安全对我们来说非常重要，这是我们做出此次决定的原因。”她表示，召回范围仍未扩大欧盟。
Ikea — which in Chinese is called Yijia, or suitable home — has thus far enjoyed a robust reputation among Chinese consumers. Compared with its other branches, Ikea stores in China routinely experience significantly more foot traffic from customers shopping for furniture, some also coming simply to eat in the in-store restaurant and hang out.
公司的中文名“宜家”含有适合家庭的意思，公司迄今为止一直在中国消费者中享有很大的声誉。来中国的宜家商场购买家具的客流量一般来说比公司在其他地区商场的大得多，也有些中国顾客只是为了在宜家商场的餐厅吃饭，或者只是来逛逛。
Its products appeal to Chinese consumers willing to spend a bit more for quality. China’s 30 years of untrammeled growth have given rise to a vast, and increasingly discriminating, consumer market. With $4.5 trillion in annual retail sales, China is widely believed to be on track to surpass the United States as the world’s largest retail market.
宜家产品对愿意为质量花多一点钱的中国消费者具有吸引力。中国经济30年的高速增长已经造就了一个巨大的、越来越挑剔的消费市场。中国的年度零售额已达到4.5万亿美元，人们认为中国有望超过美国，成为全球最大的零售市场。
Every March 15, China celebrates Consumer Rights Day, during which China’s national television broadcaster hosts an annual television program that accuses major companies of violating the interests of consumers. That has made companies especially sensitive to negative consumer perceptions in China. KFC and McDonald’s have battled skepticism in China about the freshness of their food after a major meat supplier closed two years ago because of safety concerns, and KFC scrambled last year to counter an online hoax that claimed the chain had bred eight-legged chickens to supply its restaurants in China.
每年的3月15日是中国的消费者权益日，中国的国家电视台总是在每年的这个日子前后播出谴责大公司侵犯消费者权益的电视节目。这使得公司对中国消费者眼力的负面形象特别敏感。肯德基和麦当劳的一家主要肉类供应商两年前由于食品安全问题关闭后，这两家快餐店一直需要对付中国顾客不信任其食品新鲜程度的问题。肯德基去年还不得不出面反击网上的一条假消息，该消息称肯德基为公司的中国餐厅培育出八条腿的鸡。
In Ikea’s case, the backlash in China was almost immediate. Angry consumers took to social media to complain about the company’s recall practices. Chinese media cast doubts on the quality and safety of Ikea’s products, while an editorial published on Xinhua, the officials news agency, denounced the recall exclusion as “blatant bullying.”
就宜家的这次召回而言，中国的反应几乎是即时的。愤怒的消费者马上就在社交媒体上对公司的召回范围表示不满。中国媒体对宜家产品的质量和安全性提出质疑，官方通讯社新华社还发表社论谴责召回不包括中国是“明目张胆的欺负中国消费者”。
The Shenzhen Consumer Council, a government organization in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, released a statement criticizing the company’s decision. Government consumer associations in Nanjing and Tianjin followed suit.
中国南方城市的一个政府机构、深圳市消费者委员会正式发文批评公司的决定。南京市和天津市的政府消费者协会也纷纷效仿。
Last Saturday, 11 days after the United States recall was announced, Ikea said it would begin discussing the possibility of a recall with the China Consumer Association, a government-established watchdog group, and Chinese government officials.
上周六，也就是公司宣布在美国召回产品的11天后，宜家表示将与中国消费者协会讨论召回的可能性，中国消费者协会是政府成立的一个监督机构。
“We are only part of the consumer protection infrastructure, but we are an important link between consumers and businesses,” said Zhang Xu, the association’s spokesman, in Tianjin.
中国消协发言人张旭（音）在天津表示，“我们只是保护消费者权益基础设施的一部分，但我们是消费者与企业之间的一条重要纽带。”