In a deal with federal regulators, Ikea announced Tuesday that it would recall 29 million chests and dressers in the United States after at least six toddlers were crushed to death in tip-over accidents.
根据与联邦监管机构达成的一项协议，宜家(Ikea)于周二宣布将在美国召回2900万件抽屉柜和梳妆台。此前已有至少六名幼儿在家具倾倒事故中被压死。
The move by the Swedish company, the world’s largest furniture seller, represented a crucial victory for consumer advocates in a yearslong effort to hold it accountable for a growing death toll of young children dating to 1989.
作为世界上最大的家具销售商，这家瑞典公司的举措代表着消费者维权行动的重大胜利。宜家家具倾倒致幼儿死亡事件正与日俱增，最早可追溯至1989年，这场已持续多年的维权行动希望就此向宜家公司问责。
The head of the Consumer Product Safety Commission issued a stark warning to owners of furniture included in the recall.
消费者产品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)负责人向召回所涉家具的拥有者发出了明确的警告。
“If you have or think you have one of these products, act immediately,” the commission’s chairman, Elliot F. Kaye, said in a statement. “It is simply too dangerous to have the recalled furniture in your home unanchored, especially if you have young children.”
“如果你拥有或认为你拥有其中的某种产品，应立即采取行动，”委员会主席埃利奥特·F·凯(Elliot F. Kaye)在声明中说。“将未加固定的召回家具摆放在家中是极其危险的，尤其是如果家中有婴幼儿。”
Alan M. Feldman, a Philadelphia lawyer who is representing three of the families of toddlers in lawsuits against Ikea, said he welcomed the recall, but wished it had been issued much sooner. (He also said that the commission on Tuesday failed to note the death of a 3-year-old girl that was blamed on Ikea furniture in 2005, raising the toll to at least seven).
代表三名幼儿的家属起诉宜家的费城律师阿兰·M·费尔德曼(Alan M. Feldman)说，宜家的召回是好事，但他们早就该这样做了。（他还说，委员会在周二的声明中漏掉了2005年的一次宜家家具事故，一名三岁女孩在事故中丧生，这样一来总死亡人数就达到至少七人。）
“I don’t think that we should forget that it took seven deaths and more than 70 injuries and an untold number of near-misses before Ikea was shamed into taking action,” Mr. Feldman said.
“我认为我们不应忘记，在造成七人死，70多人伤，不计其数的侥幸逃脱后，宜家才在羞愧之下采取行动，”费尔德曼说。
Lars Petersson, the president and chief executive of Ikea USA, said the recalled furniture was never intended to be free-standing, but rather secured to walls with provided straps, a step he called “an integral part of the assembly instructions.”
宜家美国公司总裁、首席执行官拉斯·彼得森(Lars Petersson)说，被召回家具本来就不是独立式的，需要用随附的安全带进行固定，他说这一步骤“在组装说明书中是不可或缺的一部分”。
“If you are assembling correctly, the product is actually a very safe product,” he said in an interview on Tuesday.
“只要经过正确的组装，它们其实是非常安全的产品，”他在周二接受采访时说。
Mr. Petersson declined to comment on the lawsuits brought by families, which accuse the company of knowing about the deadly risks of its furniture and failing to do anything about it.
彼得森拒绝就家属的诉讼置评，后者诉称宜家公司在明知其产品存在致命风险的情况下，没能采取任何行动。
“The death of a child is an incredible loss,” he said. “It should never happen. So our hearts go out to the families that have to go through this.”
“一个孩子的死亡是令人极度痛心的，”他说。“这样的事本不应发生。我们向经历这一变故的家人表示哀悼。”
A child dies, on average, once every two weeks in accidents that involve the toppling of furniture or bulky television sets, according to the safety commission. Every year, about 38,000 people visit emergency rooms for injuries related to tip-over accidents, a majority involving children under 5.
据安全委员会的数据，平均每两周会有一名幼儿在涉及家具或沉重的电视机倾倒的事故中死亡。每年有约3.8万人因倾倒事故需前往急救室，这其中多数为五岁以下的儿童。
In many cases, the children slide drawers out from a dresser and then try to climb them like stairs. In a moment, an everyday item becomes lethal.
有许多案例是因为儿童将梳妆台下的抽屉拉出，像踩楼梯一样爬上去。一个寻常物品突然间就有了致命性。
The commission said all six of the children crushed to death by Ikea furniture were 3 years old or younger. It also received reports of 36 injuries to children, it said.
委员会称，六名被宜家家具压死的儿童年龄最大的为三岁。此外他们还接到了36宗儿童受伤的报告。
Ikea’s recall applies to eight million chests and drawers in the company’s popular Malm line, the style involved in each of the last three deaths from 2014 to 2016.
宜家此次的召回行动涉及“马尔姆”系列的800万件抽屉柜和梳妆台，来自2014到2016年间的最后三宗死亡事件和这个受欢迎的产品门类有关。
The latest case, in February, added new urgency to the recall campaign. According to police records obtained by Philly.com, a woman in Minnesota went into her toddler’s bedroom to check on him during a nap and found him crushed beneath a six-drawer Malm dresser. Emergency medical workers were unable to revive him.
最近的一宗发生在今年二月，进一步加剧了召回行动的紧迫性。据Philly.com得到的警方记录，明尼苏达州一名女子走进幼子的房间，查看其睡觉情况，结果发现他被压在一只“马尔姆”六屉柜下，经急救人员抢救无效后死亡。
Most American furniture manufacturers adhere to voluntary safety standards, which ensure that a unit will not tip over when a drawer is extended and 50 pounds of weight is applied. The recall on Tuesday applies to all Ikea furniture that fails that test, the commission said.
大多数美国家具生产商遵循的是自愿的安全标准，确保在抽屉拉出并承受50磅重量时不会倾倒。委员会称，所有没能通过这项测试的宜家家具都需要召回。
Last summer, Ikea offered free wall anchor kits to owners of its furniture, a step that consumer advocates dismissed as inadequate given that many consumers were unaware of the dangers posed by unsecured furniture.
去年夏天，宜家向其家具的拥有者免费提供了墙式固定件，消费者维权人士认为这样做是不够的，因为许多消费者并不清楚未经固定的家具会有何种危险。
As part of the agreement on Tuesday, Ikea agreed to pick up the recalled furniture from customers’ homes and issue a refund, or to install an anchor that secures them to the wall. It also applies to customers in Canada, where a 6.6 million units of the recalled furniture was sold.
根据周二达成的协议，宜家同意前往顾客家中提取召回家具并给予退款，或将家具固定在墙上。加拿大的顾客也适用这项召回协议，该国已售出660万件在召回范围内的家具。
Mr. Kaye, the safety commission chairman, said on Tuesday that he was encouraged by Ikea’s willingness make changes, adding, “That doesn’t exonerate them from the past, but it is, from a consumer-safety standpoint, a positive announcement.”
安全委员会主席凯在周二说，宜家愿意做出改变令他感到鼓舞，他还说，“这并不表示它可以逃脱过往的罪责，但从消费者安全的角度，这的确是一个积极的举措。”
Asked whether any other retailers were selling furniture that posed risks to children, he said, “The best I can say at this point is our investigation continues, but that Ikea is not alone.”
至于是否还有其他的零售商在销售对儿童构成威胁的家具，他说，“此时此刻我只能说，我们的调查在继续，但宜家并非唯一一家。”