Primarily known for making hi-fi speakers for audio studios and luxury hotels, the British company Bowers & Wilkins recently turned its expertise to headphones. The company quickly built a high-quality lineup, and rounding out the roster is the P7, its first over-ear headphones.
以录音棚和豪华酒店使用的高保真扬声器而闻名的英国公司宝华韦健(Bowers & Wilkins)，近来把自己的专长用在了耳机上。公司很快建立了一条高品质的耳机产品线，新推出的生力军P7是其中第一款耳罩式耳机。
The inside of the P7 headphones includes parts designed with a traditional loudspeaker in mind. The technology includes voice coils made of a light aluminum-copper compound, which improves high-frequency reproduction, and damping materials to reduce distortion. All of this adds up to produce “truly immersive sound,” according to Bowers & Wilkins.
P7的一些内部部件，在设计时借鉴了传统的扬声器。它采用的技术包括用轻质铝铜合金制作音圈，从而改善耳机的高频表现，以及使用阻尼材料来减少失真。宝华韦健表示，所有这些方法结合起来，产生了让人“完全沉浸在聆听中”的声音。
But the company seems to have spent equal time on the exterior of the P7. The headphones are made with sturdy materials like leather and stainless steel, providing a look of refinement. “Dual-cavity” cushions on the ear cups are intended to provide a more comfortable fit while blocking outside noise. The ear cups even have a rectangular shape that resembles a loudspeaker.
然而公司在P7的外形上花费的时间似乎同样不少。这款耳机采用皮革、不锈钢等坚固材料，提供了一种精致的外观。P7耳杯拥有“双腔”耳垫，在阻挡外界噪音的同时，提供了更舒适的佩戴感受。耳杯甚至采用了类似于扬声器的长方形。
All of that attention to detail pays off in the sound quality. The aural precision is pretty amazing; it’s like sitting in a sound studio. I could hear every nuance of the music, with clear highs and a solid bass.
对细节的关注，造就了出色的音质。P7达到了相当惊人的听觉精度，感觉就像是坐在录音棚里听音乐。我可以听到音乐的每个细微之处，高音清晰，低音密实。
At first glance, the headphones didn’t look as if they would fit well, but the rectangular cups fit securely over my ears, creating a nice seal that allowed little sound to escape. They were so comfortable that at one point I fell asleep while wearing them, not realizing they were still perched on my head.
乍看上去，P7佩戴起来似乎不会很贴合，但长方形耳杯稳稳当当地罩在我耳朵上，形成了一个很好的密闭环境，几乎不会有声音漏出。佩戴P7的感觉非常舒适，有一次我竟然戴着它睡着了，完全没有意识到它仍然架在我头上。
The P7 headphones come with two tangle-free audio cables – one with an in-line remote and microphone and the other without – and a quarter-inch plug adapter. The headphones can be folded and stored in a case that is included and resembles a clutch handbag.
P7耳机配备了两条防缠绕的音频连接线——其中一条集成了线控和麦克风，另一条没有——以及一个6.35毫米转接头。耳机可以折叠起来，存放在附送的一只类似于手袋的便携小包里。
At $400, the P7 headphones are not a product I would use on my daily subway commute, but I would feel comfortable wearing them while relaxing in a luxury hotel.
P7耳机售价400美元（约合人民币2437元），不是那种我每天上下班乘坐地铁时会佩戴的耳机；但是，当我在一家豪华酒店里放松时，戴着它会觉得很惬意。