HONG KONG — Baosteel Group, one of China’s biggest steel makers, is leading a $1.3 billion takeover bid for the Australian miner Aquila Resources as Chinese companies continue their global search for raw materials.
香港——中国规模领先的钢铁公司宝钢集团正在牵头收购澳大利亚矿产公司Aquila资源(Aquila Resources)，该收购案报价为13亿美元。此时，中国公司正在继续进行全球性的原材料搜寻。
Baosteel, a state-owned company and the parent of the Shanghai-listed Baoshan Iron and Steel, has teamed up with Aurizon Holdings, Australia’s largest rail freight operator, in bidding for Aquila, which is developing a giant iron ore mine in Western Australia’s mineral-rich Pilbara region.
宝钢是一家国有企业，也是在上海上市的宝山钢铁(Baoshan Iron and Steel)的母公司。它已经与澳大利亚最大的铁路运输公司Aurizon Holdings联合起来，准备对Aquila进行收购。Aquila正在西澳大利亚矿藏丰富的皮尔巴拉地区开采一个巨型铁矿。
The bidders are offering 3.40 Australian dollars, or $3.15, for each share of Aquila they do not already own, Aquila said Monday in a stock exchange filing. That represents a premium of 39 percent to where Aquila’s stock closed on Friday — at 2.45 dollars per share — and values the company at 1.42 billion dollars.
周一，Aquila在股票交易文件中称，前述公司的收购报价为每股3.4澳元，约合3.15美元。这个价格比Aquila股票每股2.45澳元的周五收盘价高了39%，公司估值由此达到14.2亿澳元。
Baosteel has invested in Aquila since 2009 and holds a 20 percent stake in the company. If successful, the takeover offer would leave Baosteel owning 85 percent to 90 percent of Aquila, with Aurizon taking up the remaining stake.
宝钢从2009年开始对Aquila进行投资，如今持有公司20%的股份。如果收购成功，宝钢将持有Aquila85%到90%的股份，剩余股份将由Aurizon持有。
Aquila owns 50 percent of the West Pilbara Iron Ore Project, a mine with a budgeted development cost of more than $7 billion that is expected to produce 30 million tons of ore for export annually, once it opens. AMCI, a privately owned Australian resources investor, and Posco Group, a South Korean company, control the other half of the West Pilbara project, which aims to meet demand for iron ore, a key input for making steel, from fast-growing economies in Asia.
Aquila拥有西皮尔巴拉铁矿石项目(West Pilbara Iron Ore Project)50%的股份，该项目是一座开发成本预算超过70亿美元的大矿，运营后每年可望产出3000万吨用于出口的矿石。私人所有的澳大利亚资源投资公司AMCI和韩国企业浦项制铁集团(Posco Group)共同控制着该项目的另一半股份。该项目旨在满足亚洲增长迅速的经济体对铁矿石的需求。铁矿石是炼钢的关键原料。
Since Baosteel made its initial investment five years ago, “Aquila has had numerous confidential discussions with the Baosteel Group about its potential direct participation in the West Pilbara Iron Ore Project,” Tony Poli, Aquila’s executive chairman, said Monday in a news release. “However, the unsolicited proposal, to acquire control of Aquila, is a new development.”
Aquila执行总裁托尼·波利(Tony Poli)周一在一份新闻稿中说，鉴于宝钢从五年前就开始投资，“Aquila已与宝钢集团就后者直接参与西皮尔巴拉铁矿石项目的可能性进行了大量的秘密商讨。然而，宝钢主动提议收购Aquila的控制权是一个新的发展”。