FRANKFURT — The German automaker BMW said Wednesday that it would significantly expand its operations in the fast-growing Chinese market, doubling the number of models it produces there and extending its alliance with a local partner, Brilliance China Automotive Holdings.
法兰克福——德国汽车制造商宝马(BMW)周三表示，将在迅速发展的中国市场大幅度扩大经营规模，把在中国本地生产的车型增加一倍，扩展和中国本地合伙人华晨汽车集团控股有限公司的业务联盟。
The expansion plans were further confirmation of China’s growing importance for the major automakers, a group that also includes Volkswagen, Toyota and General Motors.
此次扩展计划进一步确证了中国对主要汽车制造商日渐增长的重要性，这些制造商还包括大众(Volkswagen)、丰田(Toyota)和通用(General Motors)。
BMW said it would increase the number of models it produces in China to six from three, including a new, lower-price model positioned below the company’s flagship 3 Series and designed specifically for China. And during the next two years, BMW will increase capacity at two Chinese factories, both in the northeastern city of Shenyang, to 400,000 vehicles per year, from 300,000.
宝马表示，将把其在中国生产的车型增至六款，其中包括一款特地为中国市场设计的低价新车型，其定位比该公司的旗舰车型宝马3系要低。接下来的两年里，宝马会把中国国内两座车厂的产能从目前的年产30万辆，提升至40万辆，这两座工厂均位于东北部城市沈阳。
While lucrative, China is also a highly competitive market, with dozens of domestic brands, pushing automakers like BMW to more closely tailor their products to local demands rather than simply copying cars designed for Europe and the United States.
中国市场利润丰厚，不过那里的竞争也极为激烈，参与竞争的还有数十家本土品牌，这就促使宝马等汽车制造商更紧密地结合本地需求设计产品，而不是简单地把他们为欧美市场设计的车型照搬到中国。
“We are strengthening our focus on meeting the needs and aspirations of our Chinese customers,” Friedrich Eichiner, the chief financial officer of BMW, said at a news conference in Beijing, according remarks provided by BMW.
“我们正在加强对中国客户的关注，重点是满足他们的需求和愿望，”根据宝马提供的评论，宝马首席财务官弗里德里希·埃希纳(Friedrich Eichiner)在北京的一次新闻发布会上这样说。
China’s growing layer of well-off consumers has been a boon to German high-end carmakers like BMW as well as the Audi unit of Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz from Daimler. China has become such an important market for the Germans that any economic hiccup there is quickly felt back home.
对于像宝马、大众旗下子品牌奥迪(Audi)和戴姆勒(Daimler)旗下子品牌梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)这样的高端汽车制造商来说，不断扩大的中国富裕消费群体一直是一大福音。
BMW, based in Munich, sold 225,000 cars under the BMW, Rolls-Royce and Mini brands in China during the first six months of 2014, including vehicles manufactured outside China. That was a 23 percent increase compared with the same period a year earlier. China has surpassed the United States as BMW’s largest market.
2014年上半年，总部位于慕尼黑的宝马集团旗下子品牌宝马、劳斯莱斯(Rolls-Royce)和宝马迷你(Mini)的在华总销量达到了22.5万辆，其中包括了在中国境外生产的进口车。与去年同期相比增长了23%。中国已超越美国，成为宝马在全球规模最大的市场。
BMW produces cars in China under a joint venture with Brilliance Auto. The partnership agreement, which would have expired in 2018, will be extended until at least 2028, Mr. Eichiner said. The dealer network for BMW and Mini cars will also be expanded to try to reach customers in smaller cities, he said, without giving figures. The company currently has 430 BMW and 97 Mini dealerships in China.
在中国，宝马是通过与华晨汽车集团成立的一家合资企业生产汽车的。埃希纳表示，双方的合作协议将于2018年到期，但协议至少会被延长至2028年。他还说，宝马和迷你的经销商网络也将扩大，以争取较小城市的消费者。但他未给出数字。目前，该公司在中国有430家宝马经销商和97家迷你经销商。
In a response to concerns about air pollution in China, BMW said it would also put more emphasis on hybrid and battery-powered cars. The company will begin selling its i3 and i8 battery-powered models in China in September. And before the end of the year, BMW will begin selling a plug-in hybrid version of its 5 Series, the best-selling of its models in China.
在回应对中国空气污染的担忧时，宝马表示自己也将更加重视混合动力和电动汽车。该公司将于9月在中国开售i3和i8电动车型。在今年年底前，宝马将开始销售插电式混合动力的5系车型，该系列是在中国卖得最好的车型。