HEBRON, West Bank — It was not your usual Holy Land tour, but surely one of the most revealing I’ve ever had. A team from Friends of the Earth Middle East took me around to see how waste, sewage and untreated water flow, or don’t, between Israel and the West Bank. I never realized how political garbage and dirty water could be, or how tracking it could reveal just why making peace here is so urgent.
约旦河西岸希伯伦——这并不是司空见惯的“圣地游”，不过它在我的旅行经历中，肯定是大开眼界的一次。中东地球之友(Friends of the Earth Middle East)的一个团队带领我四处参观，了解垃圾和未经处理的废水、污水是怎样在以色列和约旦河西岸之间时而流动时而停滞的。我以前从来没有意识到垃圾和污水也可以带有如此浓重的政治色彩，也没有意识到追踪垃圾和污水的来龙去脉，也能揭示出在这里维护和平的任务有多么紧迫。
For starters, who knew that when you flush the toilet in your hotel in the eastern half of Jerusalem the wastewater likely ends up in the Dead Sea — untreated? It flows from Jerusalem’s sewers into the Kidron Stream. If you can stand the stench, you can watch it all rush by about a mile east and downhill from Jerusalem. Germany offered to pay for a treatment plant, but for the past 20 years Israel and the Palestinian Authority have not been able to agree on how to split the treated water — which originates in both Jewish and Arab drains, so nothing has happened. As a result, Mother Nature alone does her best to filter it as it flows down to the Jordan Valley, where Jewish settlers use some of this poorly treated water to irrigate their date palms. The rest ends up in the Dead Sea. Good thing it’s already dead.
首先，谁知道在耶路撒冷东部的酒店里冲厕所后，污水可能会不经处理就排进死海里？这些污水会从耶路撒冷的下水道流进汲沦溪(Kidron Stream)，如果你能忍住恶臭，就能看到污水向东流淌大约一英里远，从耶路撒冷顺流而下。德国提出要出资建设一座处理厂，但在过去20年里，以色列和巴勒斯坦权力机构一直未能就如何分配经过处理的水达成共识，因为这些水的来源既有犹太人的污水又有阿拉伯人的污水，于是什么都没有发生。其结果就是，在污水流向约旦河谷的途中，大自然只能靠自身的力量尽可能地进行过滤。在约旦河谷，犹太定居者会从这些未经妥善处理的水中汲取一些，用于灌溉椰枣树。其余的水都会流进死海，好在死海已经死了。
We’ve learned in the last few years that the colonial boundaries of the Middle East do not correspond to the ethnic, sectarian and tribal boundaries — and it is one reason that some Arab states are breaking up. But neither do the ecosystem boundaries correspond with any borders or walls. And the fact that Israelis and Palestinians have not been able to reach a power-sharing agreement that would enable them to treat the entire ecosystem here as a system is catching up with them.
在过去几年里，我们已经了解到中东地区殖民地的边界与民族、教派、部落的边界并不相符，这也正是一些阿拉伯国家正在瓦解的一个原因。然而生态系统的界限，也并不会与任何边界、围墙相吻合。以色列人和巴勒斯坦人未能达成分享权力的协议，于是他们也无法在这里整体地治理生态系统，这一事实正给他们带来负面影响。
When the region got hit in January 2013 with snow and rain from a freak and massive storm, the runoff was so powerful down the Alexander Stream, which flows from the Shomron Mountains near the West Bank town of Nablus into Israel, that it overflowed. So instead of going under the thick cement wall Israel has erected around the West Bank to keep out Palestinian suicide bombers, the flood blew away a whole chunk of that wall. Mother Nature laughs at our “green lines.”
这一地区2013年1月遭受了一场罕见的巨大风暴，雨水和雪水顺着亚历山大溪冲下，从约旦河西岸城市纳布卢斯附近的绍姆伦山(Shomron Mountains)流向以色列，水流太猛河水涌了出来。于是河水没有从厚实的水泥墙下流过，反而把以色列为了阻拦巴勒斯坦自杀炸弹袭击者而在约旦河西岸周围筑起的这些围墙，冲毁了整整一大块。面对我们的“绿线”，大自然只会发笑。
Now consider what is going on in the Hebron Industrial Zone, home to 13 tanning factories, including the Al-Walied for Leather and Tanning Company, where hides are hanging everywhere from the ceiling and a single worker is putting them through a machine that squeezes out the moisture from the softening process.
现在再思考一下希伯伦工业区(Hebron Industrial Zone)里的情况。这里有13家制革厂，包括瓦利德制皮鞣皮公司(Al-Walied for Leather and Tanning Company)，在这家工厂里，天花板上到处都挂着动物的皮，只有一名工人将这些皮放进一台机器，用来把鞣皮过程中的湿气挤走。
The problem, explained Malek Abu al-Failat, from the Bethlehem office of Friends of the Earth Middle East, which brings Israelis, Jordanians and Palestinians together on one team, is that the tanneries use chromium 3 to soften the hides and then let the effluence flow into the drains and down the Hebron Stream. That effluence exceeds 5,000 milligrams of chromium 3 per liter. The global safety standard is 5 milligrams! When the chromium 3 hits the water and oxygen, it becomes chromium 6, a known carcinogen. So, in 1998, the U.S. Agency for International Development built a treatment plant here that effectively extracts all the chromium 3 and recycles it. But, in 2005, Israel identified the sulfuric acid used in the recycling as a dual-use chemical that Palestinians could employ to make a bomb and banned its use by tanners. So the chromium 6 is now back in the water, which flows from Hebron to Beersheba, one of Israel’s largest cities, and then on to Gaza and out to sea, into waters used by Israel’s desalination plants.
中东地球之友将以色列人、约旦人和巴勒斯坦人纳入了同一个团队。该机构伯利恒办公室的马利克·阿布·法依拉特(Malek Abu al-Failat)解释道，问题是皮革厂会使用三价铬来柔化皮革，之后又会把废液排到下水道，流入希伯伦溪。废液中三价铬的浓度超过每升5000毫克，而全球安全标准为5毫克。三价铬遇水和氧，就会变成六价铬，这是一种已知的致癌物。所以在1998年，美国国际发展署（U.S. Agency for International Development，简称USAID）在这里建造了一座处理厂，可以有效地提取所有的三价铬，并加以回收利用。但是在2005年，以色列认定回收过程中使用的硫酸属于军民两用化学品，巴勒斯坦可能会用来制造炸弹，于是禁止了皮革厂使用。所以六价铬现在又回到了水中，从希伯伦流向了以色列的最大城市之一贝尔谢巴。之后再流向加沙，最后入海，融入以色列海水淡化厂使用的水中。
We visited the Al-Minya Sanitary Landfill that was built with grants from the World Bank, European Union and USAID so Palestinians could close down 19 unauthorized and unsanitary dump sites around Bethlehem and Hebron. It was supposed to open in September, but, as I saw, its 65 acres were still pristine because the Israeli military told the Palestinian Authority that if the site didn’t also accept garbage from the Gush Etzion Jewish settlements it could not open, said Failat. Palestinians say it’s unfair that they lose their land to settlements and then have to accept their garbage.
我们还参观了米尼亚卫生填埋场(Al-Minya Sanitary Landfill)。这座填埋场是利用世界银行(World Bank)、欧洲联盟和USAID拨款建造的，目的是让巴勒斯坦关闭伯利恒和希伯伦周围19座未经批准、不卫生的填埋场。米尼亚填埋场原本计划9月开始运行，但我见到的景象是，65英亩的土地仍然一尘不染。法依拉特说，原因是以色列军方要求巴勒斯坦权力机构接受古什埃齐翁(Gush Etzion)犹太人定居点的垃圾，否则填埋场就不能开放。而巴勒斯坦人则表示，不仅定居点占据了他们的土地，现在还要他们接受定居点的垃圾，这样很不公平。
Meanwhile, Gaza, which has been woefully mismanaged by Hamas, is pumping all its drinking water from its coastal aquifer at triple its renewable rate of recharge. As a result, saltwater is seeping in. Last year, the U.N. said that by 2016 there will be no potable water left in Gaza’s main aquifer. Gaza has no big desalination plant and would not have the electricity to run it anyway. I don’t want to be here when 1.5 million Gazans really get thirsty.
与此同时，由哈马斯(Hamas)控制，但治理十分糟糕的加沙地带，则在从沿海的地下水含水层大量抽取饮用水，抽水速度是地下水更新速度的三倍。因此咸水正在渗入其中。联合国去年预测，到2016年加沙地带的主含水层就不再有可供饮用的水了。加沙地带没有大型的淡化水厂，况且也没有电力支持淡化水厂的运转。150万加沙人口渴难耐时，我可不想待在这里。
Israelis, Palestinians and Jordanians actually have all the resources needed to take care of everyone, but only if they collaborate, explained Gidon Bromberg, co-founder of Friends of the Earth Middle East. Israel, which is the world leader in desalination and wastewater recycling, could use its own cheap natural gas and solar power generated in Jordan — where there is lots of sunny desert —  “to provide desalinated and recycled water for itself, Gaza, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority.”
中东地球之友的共同创始人吉东·布朗伯格(Gidon Bromberg)解释道，实际上以色列、巴勒斯坦和约旦拥有所有的资源，可以兼顾所有人的需求，但必须开展合作。以色列在海水淡化和废水循环方面领先世界，它可以使用本国廉价的天然气和约旦用太阳能发的电——约旦有很多阳光充足的沙漠——“来为本国、加沙、约旦和巴勒斯坦权力机构提供淡化水和循环水”。
Everyone would win, which is why Bromberg suggests that Secretary of State John Kerry take Israeli and Palestinian negotiators on an eco-tour to see “the seeping time bomb that’s ticking underneath both of them.” It, too, will explode if they don’t forge a deal that enables them to live apart, but in a framework that also enables them to work together to protect the water, soil and air that they will always have in common and can only be preserved by acting in common.
所有人都能获益，所以布朗伯格建议国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)带领以色列和巴勒斯坦谈判代表做一趟生态旅游，看看“漫漫渗入地下，正在双方脚下嘀嗒作响的定时炸弹”。双方需要达成妥协，从而互不干扰地生活，也需要建立一种框架，让双方开展合作保护水、土壤和空气，否则这颗定时炸弹就会爆炸。水、土壤和空气是双方会永远共有的资源，只能通过共同行动才能保护。