The Vietnamese, like many Asians, flock to Singapore to shop. They hit those cool, fragrant malls on Orchard Road. A few among the affluent go there to see a dentist or a doctor or have a baby. They are drawn, also, by something less tangible, the sense of prosperity and purring efficiency, as if by some miracle the Alpine order and cleanliness of Switzerland had been conjured up in the Tropics. They exhale, freed from the raucous agitation of modern Asian life, and are rocked in a Singaporean cradle of convenience where, it seems, nothing can go wrong.
像很多亚洲人一样，越南人也蜂拥到新加坡购物。他们去逛乌节路上那些时尚、馨香的商场。也有少数富人是去新加坡看牙、看病、生子。此外他们也被一些更为无形的东西所吸引：欣欣向荣的感觉，令人满意的效率，就好像在某种奇迹的作用下，阿尔卑斯的井然有序和瑞士的明透洁净，降临在了热带地区。他们呼着气，从现代亚洲生活那种喧闹躁动中解脱出来，被新加坡的便利所环绕，在这里，似乎没有什么事会出岔子。
You don’t have to like Singapore to admire it. Once you begin to admire it, of course, you may discover in yourself a sneaking affection. The achievement of Lee Kuan Yew, the nation’s founding father, who died Monday at the age of 91, is immense. The 20th century produced few greater statesmen and perhaps no greater pragmatist.
就算你不喜欢新加坡，也会钦佩它。当然，一旦你开始钦佩它，你可能会发现自己不知不觉喜欢上了它。新加坡国父李光耀本周一过世，享年91岁，他生前取得了巨大的成就。20世纪少有比他更加杰出的政治家，可能也没有比他更伟大的实用主义者。
The measure of that achievement is that the ingredients of disaster abounded in Singapore, a country that is “not supposed to exist and cannot exist,” as Lee said in a 2007 interview with The New York Times. “We don’t have the ingredients of a nation,” he noted, “the elementary factors: a homogeneous population, common language, common culture and common destiny.” Instead, it had a combustible ethnic and religious hodgepodge of Chinese, Malays and Indians gathered in a city-state of no natural resources.
新加坡的许多特质极易引发灾难，这也显示了李光耀的成就有多么巨大。“它本不应该存在，而且也无法存在，”他在2007年接受《纽约时报》采访时说。“我们没有成为一个国家的要素，缺乏一些基本的因素：同质的人口、共同的语言、共同的文化、共同的命运。”实际上，这是一个由华人、马来人和印度人组成的族群和宗教大杂烩，是一个没有自然资源的城市国家。
Yet Lee made it work, where many nations with far more of those attributes of nationhood — Argentina prominent among them — failed, and where, from the Balkans to the Middle East, sectarian differences have proved insurmountable and often the catalyst of war and national unraveling.
然而李光耀让这个国家良好地运转了起来，而很多自身禀赋远远更优越的国家，却没能做到这一点──阿根廷是个尤为突出的例子。而且从巴尔干半岛到中东，事实已经证明，宗派分歧难以逾越，往往会成为战争和国家解体的催化剂。
The fact that the elements for cataclysm exist does not mean that cataclysm is inevitable. Lee demonstrated this in an age where the general cacophony, and the need to manage and spin every political minute, makes statesmanship ever more elusive. The determining factor is leadership. What defines leadership above all is conviction, discipline in the pursuit of a goal, adaptability in the interest of the general good, and far-sightedness.
蕴含着灾难的因子，并不意味着灾难不可避免。李光耀已经展示了这一点，而且在他执政的那个时代，不和谐音是种常态，每一个政治细节都需要处理和阐述，这让治理国家的工作变得更加无章可循。决定因素在于领导力，而领导力的关键则在于坚定信念，在追求目标的过程中严明纪律，为了共同利益而灵活调适，以及拥有远见卓识。
Lee’s only religion was pragmatism, of which religion (as generally understood) is the enemy, because, to some adherents, it offers revealed truths that are fact-resistant. Any ideology that abhors facts is problematic. (If you believe land is yours because it was deeded to you in the Bible, for example, but other people live there and have for centuries, you have an issue pregnant with violence.) Lee had one basic yardstick for policy: Does it work? It was the criterion of a forward-looking man for whom history was instructive but not imprisoning. He abhorred victimhood (an excuse for sloppy thinking and nationalist delusion) and corruption. He prized opportunity, meritocracy, the work ethic of the immigrant and education.
李光耀唯一的宗教就是实用主义，而（一般意义上的）宗教是实用主义的敌人，因为对一些信徒来说，宗教阐释的真理是不顾事实的。任何憎恶事实的意识形态都是有问题的。（例如，如果你认为一片土地是你的，因为《圣经》记载它属于你，但另一群人在那里生活，而且已经生活了好几个世纪，那么这就是一个可能导致暴力冲突的问题。）李光耀在政策上有一个基本尺度：它管用吗？这是一个有前瞻眼光的人制定的标准，对他来说，可以借鉴历史，但不能受到历史的禁锢。李光耀憎恶受害情结（那是草率思考和民族主义妄想的借口），也憎恶腐败。他重视机遇、精英政治、移民的工作伦理，以及教育。
Western democracy was not for him. It was too volatile for a nation that had to be forged and then fast-forwarded to prosperity. He was authoritarian, harsh when necessary. Free speech and political opposition were generally suppressed; the only liberalism was of the economic variety. Lee tapped into an Asian and Confucian inclination to place the communal good above individual rights; he also cowed Singaporeans into fear. Overall, it worked. Singapore became a booming commercial and banking center. Prosperity elided differences, even if the yawning gap between rich and poor is a growing issue, as throughout the world.
西方式的民主不合他的意。对于需要铸就国家，然后高速实现繁荣的新加坡，西方民主太缺乏常性了。他是威权主义者，在必要的时候出手严厉。言论自由和政治反对派普遍受到打压；唯一允许的一种自由主义是经济自由主义。李光耀遵循亚洲传统和儒家教诲，把集体利益摆在个人权利之上；他还恫吓新加坡人，令他们心生恐惧。总体而言，这些做法起到了效果。新加坡成为了一个蓬勃发展的商业和金融中心。经济繁荣弥合了分歧，尽管像世界各地一样，新加坡的贫富差距也日益加剧。
There is no single model for all humankind, even if there is a universal aspiration for freedom and the means to enjoy it. Technological hyperconnectedness does not produce political consensus. Pragmatism also involves accepting this, weighing the good against the bad (while standing against the heinous) and exercising patience.
虽然拥有自由、拥有实现自由的手段是一种普世的愿望，但世界上却并不存在一个适用于全人类的单一模式。科技让人际联系变得极为便利，但政治共识却不会由此产生。实用主义也需要接受这一点，（在反对暴行的同时）权衡利弊，并保持耐心。