Jimmy Carter, as he pointed out in London a few days ago, dealt with a right-wing former terrorist and “the last person you would expect to make peace” in reaching the 1978 Camp David Accords that ended the conflict between Israel and Egypt.
正如吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)几天前在伦敦指出的，在达成1978年《戴维营协议》（Camp David Accords，该协议结束了以色列和埃及之间冲突）的过程中，他曾跟一个前右翼恐怖分子打交道，而这个人是“你最不可能从他那里得到和平的人”。
The man in question was the former Israeli prime minister, Menachem Begin, who noted in his memoir “The Revolt,” that he was known as “Terrorist Number One” in Britain as he led the fight to end British rule of Mandate Palestine and establish a Jewish state.
这个人就是以色列前总理梅纳赫姆·贝京(Menachem Begin)，此人在回忆录《反抗》(The Revolt)中指出，他在英国有“头号恐怖分子”的名声，因为他在结束英国在巴勒斯坦的统治并建立一个犹太国家的斗争中担任了领袖角色。
Begin acknowledges that he was driven by hatred of British rule. “We had to hate the humiliating disgrace of the homelessness of our people,” he wrote, adding that, “We had to hate the barring of the gates of our own country to our own brethren, trampled and bleeding and crying out for help in a world morally deaf.”
贝京承认，对英国统治的仇恨驱动着他。“我们必然憎恨，人民无家可归带来了奇耻大辱，”他写道，“我们必然憎恨，阻止同胞进入我们自己国家的大门，他们被践踏、流着血，大声呼救，而这个世界罔顾道义，对此充耳不闻。”
Yet, three decades after the establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, Begin the warrior — a man as responsible as any other for the transformation of the meek, acquiescent Jew of the diaspora who went head bowed to the Nazi gas into a fighter — chose to set hatred aside to trade land for lasting peace.
然而，在建国30年后（以色列于1948年建国），作为战士的贝京——把温顺默从、流离失所、对纳粹毒气逆来顺受的犹太人转变成斗士，贝京功不可没——决定把仇恨放在一边，用土地交换持久和平。
Carter’s conclusion is that Benjamin Netanyahu, a hawk raised on the ethos of Begin (Israel’s first right-wing prime minister), may also want go down as the “historic hero” who brought peace.
卡特的结论是：作为受到贝京（以色列第一任右翼总理）精神气质熏陶的“鹰派强人”，本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)可能也想成为带来和平的“历史英雄”。
“I don’t see anyone else” in Israel “as a possible peacemaker,” the former U.S. president, who had just been briefed by Secretary of State John Kerry on his diplomatic initiative, observed.
听取了国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)对其外交行动的介绍之后，卡特说：在以色列，“我觉得有可能成为和平缔造者的人非他莫属。”
The notion that Netanyahu the Likudnik — fierce opponent of the late Yitzhak Rabin’s peace push, reluctant latecomer to the notion of two states, longtime ideologue of the Jewish right to all the Biblical land of Israel — might reinvent himself as peacemaker is not new. I have heard it from several people who have spent long hours with Netanyahu, including former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
内塔尼亚胡是利库德党人(Likudnik)，他激烈反对已故的伊扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)推动的和平行动，不太情愿也不太积极地接受了“两国方案”，并长期坚持犹太人对所有以色列圣土拥有权利；但他可能会变成和平缔造者的想法并不新鲜。我从好几个人那里听到过这个想法，他们都跟内塔尼亚胡打过很长时间的交道，其中包括英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)。
Skepticism is de rigueur, but it would be wrong to dismiss the idea. Never give an inch was Begin’s fierce creed forged in European persecution — and yet. The controversial release of 104 Palestinians is not the action of an Israeli prime minister unserious about final-status negotiations. Carter said, “I think this concept that John Kerry has pursued now secretly, very secretly for five months, I think it has much more chance of success than I had believed before we met with him.”
怀疑这个想法很正常，但是对它不屑一顾就错了。其实，贝京那种决不做出一丝一毫让步的激烈信条是在遭受欧洲人迫害期间形成的。然而，如果一位以色列总理对于最终地位的谈判态度不认真，他也不会做出引发争议的决定，释放104名巴勒斯坦人。卡特说：“约翰·克里现在推进的这项任务，已经非常秘密地进行了五个月了。在我们和他见面之后，我认为这件事的成功机会，比我从前想的大得多。”
Kerry’s work up to now has been impressive: the doggedness, that very secrecy (necessary to diplomacy but harder than ever to achieve), the choreography (pluck the interlocutors out of the region to begin talks in Washington), the orchestration (involvement of the Arab League, appeals to major U.S. Jewish groups).
迄今为止，克里的行动成就斐然：坚持不懈、高度保密（对于外交来说是必需的，但是比以往任何时候都更难实现）、精心设计（把对话者从当地迅速送到华盛顿开始会谈）、巧妙安排（让阿拉伯国家联盟参与进来，向美国的主要犹太团体做出呼吁）。
The context of his work looks adverse — but perhaps not. Next to Syria’s implosion and Egypt’s secular-religious fracture, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is an old, tired issue: Its protagonists weary of it, the outline of its resolution well known, the futility of its perpetuation evident. My sense is that even the Arabs who are long used the Palestinian issue as a diversion from their core problems are sick of it. They see the conflict as an impediment to growth and an ideological distraction (rather than serviceable tool). There is more heat right now to Sunni-Shiite than Palestinian-Israeli enmity.
这个行动的背景看起来充满阻力——但也许并非如此。巴以冲突跟叙利亚内战、埃及世俗宗教之争相比，是一个久拖不决的老问题：参与者厌倦了它，其大致的解决方案众所周知，其长期存在的无益性显而易见。我的感觉是，即使是长期用巴勒斯坦问题来分散注意力，避免注意力一直集中在自家核心问题上的阿拉伯人，也都被它烦死了。他们把巴以冲突视为对发展的阻碍和意识形态上的干扰（而不是可供使用的工具）。跟巴以之间的敌意相比，逊尼派和什叶派之间仇恨目前更让他们头疼。
Carter said a resolution should be based on the 1967 borders, “with one exception — that is that there can be land swaps very near Jerusalem for the major Israeli settlements, and acre by acre or hectare by hectare the land that’s given by the Palestinians to Israel for these major settlements will be repaid to the Palestinians on an equal basis.”
卡特说，解决方案可以基于1967年的巴以边界来制定，“有一个例外——就是可以用非常靠近耶路撒冷的土地来交换以色列人主要定居点，一英亩对一英亩，或是一公顷对一公顷，巴勒斯坦人把这些主要定居点交给以色列，并在平等的基础上，让他们获得交换的土地。”
He said Palestinian return would have to be to the West Bank or Gaza — “unless it’s a few dozen or something like that” to Israel. He said, “I have met many, many hours with Hamas leaders, and they have assured me for a long time that they will accept any negotiation that is successful between the P.L.O. and Israel if it is put to the Palestinian people in a referendum.”
他说，“除了极少数人可以”到以色列去，巴勒斯坦人必须要返回西岸或加沙。他说：“我跟哈马斯(Hamas)领导人交谈过很长的时间，他们一直以来都跟我保证说，巴解组织(PLO)和以色列之间只要能谈判成功，能让巴勒斯坦人民进行全民公决，他们就会接受。”
Yes, the outline of the only possible resolution is well known. (Jerusalem will require immense creativity.) The dire alternative is also well known. At times the conflict comes close to self-parody, being so thrashed to death. Could it be that the Israeli and Palestinian peoples are unready to be fooled again?
确实，巴以冲突唯一可行的解决方案，其大致轮廓可以说是众所周知。（耶路撒冷将需要大量创意思考。）而其可怕的替代方案也是众所周知。有时候，巴以冲突狼狈收场，近乎于自我嘲弄。也许，以色列和巴勒斯坦的人民不愿再次被愚弄？
Begin also wrote: “We had to hate — as any nation worthy of the name must and always will hate — the rule of the foreigner.” He wrote: “If you love your country, you cannot but hate those who seek to annex it.”
贝京还写道：“我们必然憎恨——任何一个称得上‘国家’的国家都必然会憎恨，而且始终憎恨——被外国人统治。”他写道：“如果你爱你的国家，你一定会憎恨那些企图吞并它的人。”
Netanyahu should read those words carefully. He might find in them the decisive spur to a resolution that grants Palestinians a state in peace and security beside Israel. It is hard for him: Sinai, unlike the West Bank, was not part of Eretz Israel — land Begin believed was “our natural and eternal right.”
内塔尼亚胡应仔细阅读这些句子。他可能会在这些句子中看到坚定的鼓舞，从而迈向一个可以让巴勒斯坦人和平、安全地在以色列旁边建国的解决办法。这对他来说十分困难：不同于西岸，西奈半岛并非是“以色列土地”(Eretz Israel)——即贝京眼中的“我们拥有天生和永恒权利”的土地。
Hard, yes, but no harder than for Begin the bomb maker to become Begin the peacemaker.
没错，这确实很困难，但不会比贝京从炸弹制造者变成和平缔造者更困难。