During the 20th century, political thinkers were defined less by their attachment to political parties and more by their attachment to magazines. Arthur Schlesinger was associated with The New Republic. Lionel Trilling was associated with the Partisan Review. Each magazine had its own personality, its own community of writers and readers and defined its own spot on the intellectual landscape.
在20世纪，能够描述政治思想家的不是他属于哪个政党，更多的是他属于哪本杂志。亚瑟·史列辛格(Arthur Schlesinger)与《新共和》(The New Republic)相关；莱昂内尔·特里林(Lionel Trilling)与《党派评论》(Partisan Review)相关。每本杂志都有自己的知名人物，自己的一群作者和读者，在知识界也占据了自己的位置。
Today, the Internet has made magazine communities less cohesive. Most of those magazines still exist, but people surf through them fluidly and click on individual articles. Writers are identified more as individuals and less as members of a circle.
今天，互联网让杂志界的景象不再那么紧密了。那些杂志中，有许多至今仍然存在，但人们可以便利地在其中浏览，单独点击某一篇文章。作者为人熟知的身份更多是个人，而不再是某个圈子的成员。
Something important has been lost in this transition. For example, The New Republic, which turns 100 this year, made a series of superficially contradictory demands on its readers. To be a well-rounded person, the magazine implied, it is necessary to be both practical and philosophical, both politically engaged and artistically cultivated. The magazine offered, and still offers, short practical articles on politics and policy in the front of the book and long literary essays on philosophy and culture in the back.
在这种转变当中，我们失去了一些很重要的东西。例如，今年就将100岁的《新共和》对读者提出了一系列表面看来相互矛盾的要求。这本杂志暗示，要想成为一个全面的人，既需要务实，又需要有哲思，既需要了解政治，又需要有艺术修养。这本杂志的前半本会刊登涉及政治和政策的务实文章，后半本会刊登书卷气很重的长文，探讨哲学和文化。今天它也是这样做的。
In 1940, the magazine published a stunning critique of those who refuse to embrace both kinds of knowledge. The essay, called “The Corruption of Liberalism,” was written by the unjustly forgotten writer Lewis Mumford. It’s been revived by the magazine’s current editor, Franklin Foer, in “Insurrections of the Mind,” a collection of essays from the magazine’s first century.
这本杂志曾在1940年刊登过一篇惊人的文章，批评那些不愿同时接受这两种知识的人。文章题为《自由主义的腐败》(The Corruption of Liberalism)，它的作者刘易斯·芒福德(Lewis Mumford)已经被人遗忘，但他本不该被人遗忘。《新共和》杂志的现任主编富兰克林·弗尔(Franklin Foer)在文集《头脑的反叛》(Insurrections of the Mind)中对这篇文章发表了评论。这本文集里收录了《新共和》杂志一百年来发表过的一些文章。
Mumford’s nominal subject was his fellow liberals’ tendency, in 1940, to hang back in the central conflict of the age, the fight against totalitarianism. “Liberalism has been on the side of passivism in the face of danger,” he wrote. “Liberalism has been on the side of ‘isolation’ when confronted with the imminent threat of a worldwide upsurge in barbarism.” Liberals, he continued, “no longer dare to act.”
表面看来，芒福德的议题是其他自由派在1940年的一种趋势——面对着那个时代对抗极权主义的核心冲突，自由派却无动于衷。“自由主义面对危险，一直有消极被动的倾向，”他写道。“面对着野蛮行径在全球汹涌上升的迫近威胁，自由主义一直倾向于‘孤立’于世事。”他接着写道，自由派“已经不敢行动了”。
But, as Mumford goes along, he penetrates deeper into the pragmatist mind-set itself, the mind-set of people who try to govern without philosophic or literary depth. And, in this way, his essay is perceptive about the mind-set that is dominant in political circles today. Washington is now awash in big data analysts, policy wonks and social scientists. Today’s foreign policy debate is conducted along realist lines, by both liberals and conservatives.
然而随着行文的深入，芒福德进一步戳透了实用主义心态本身，也就是不凭借哲学或文学深度，就试图施政的那种人的心态。这样一来，他的文章就敏锐地反映了当今政界的主导心态。今天在华盛顿，大数据分析师、政策专家、社会学家比比皆是。如今涉及外交政策的辩论是围绕现实主义分歧展开的，自由派和保守派都是如此。
A core problem with pragmatists, Mumford argues, is that they attach themselves so closely to science and social science that they have forgotten the modes of insight offered by theology and literature. This leads to a shallow, amputated worldview.
芒福德认为，实用主义者的核心问题是，他们过于紧密地依附于科学和社会科学，以至于忘记了神学和文学所提供的那些思维模式。这就导致了一种浅陋、偏颇的世界观。
“This pragmatic liberalism,” Mumford writes, “was vastly preoccupied with the machinery of life. It was characteristic of this creed to overemphasize the part played by political and mechanical invention, by abstract thought and practical contrivance. And, accordingly, it minimized the role of instinct, tradition, history; it was unaware of the dark forces of the unconscious; it was suspicious of either the capricious or the incalculable, for the only universe it could rule was a measured one, and the only type of human character it could understand was the utilitarian one.”
芒福德写道，“这种实用的自由主义，大量关注于生活的机器属性。这种信条的典型做法是，过于强调政治和机械发明所扮演的角色，强调抽象思考和机巧雕琢的作用。此外，它还相应地贬抑直觉、传统、历史的角色；它对潜意识的阴暗力量浑然不觉；它对变幻无常或无法计算的事物都充满怀疑，因为只有在能够度量的宇宙，它才能大行其道，它唯一能够理解的人类特质是功利的。”
Because of these blinders, pragmatists can’t understand nonpragmatists: “It is not unfair to say that the pragmatic liberal has taken the world of personality, the world of values, feelings, emotions, wishes, purposes, for granted. He assumed either that this world did not exist or that it was relatively unimportant; at all events if it did exist it could be safely left to itself, without cultivation. For him men were essentially good and only the faulty economic and political institutions — defects purely in the mechanism of society — kept them from becoming better.”
因为有这些因素的蒙蔽，实用主义者不能理解非实用主义者：“实用主义的自由派对人格化的世界视而不见，对价值、感受、情绪、愿望、目的的世界视而不见——这样讲并无不妥。他们要么认为这样一个世界并不存在，要么认为相对而言没那么重要；但无论如何，即使这样一个世界的确存在，对它不管不顾，不加耕耘应该也是安全的。对他们来说，人类本质上是好的，只是有缺陷的经济和政治制度，阻碍他们变得更好，也就是说，完全是社会机制中的缺陷作祟。”
Pragmatists often fail because they try to apply economic remedies to noneconomic actors. Those who threaten civilization — Stalin then, Putin and ISIS now — are driven by moral zealotry and animal imperatives. Economic sanctions won’t work. “One might as well offer the carcass of a dead deer in a butcher store to a hunter who seeks the animal as prey. ...”
实用主义者往往会失败，因为他们试图运用经济手段来应对并非由经济因素驱使的行动者。那些对文明构成威胁的人——比如当年的斯大林(Stalin)，现在的普京(Putin)和ISIS——是由道德狂热和动物冲动驱动的。经济制裁不会奏效。“就好像是把肉铺里的死鹿，献给以捕杀为乐的猎手。”
Pragmatists also have trouble rousing themselves to action. They try to get rid of emotions when making decisions because emotions might lead them astray. But, in making themselves passionless, they always make themselves tepid and anesthetized. That leads to passivity. Everything is too little too late.
实用主义者也很难催促自己采取行动。他们努力在作决定时排除情绪因素，因为情绪可能会让他们偏离正轨。然而，在让自己失去激情的同时，他们也会让自己变得乏力而麻木。这就导致了被动的心态，所有动作都显得太小，太迟。