New Year’s resolutions tend to be big, impressive promises that we adhere to for short periods of time — that blissful stretch of January when we are starving ourselves, exercising daily and reading Proust. But, and you know this, rather than making extreme changes that last for days or weeks, we are better off with tiny ones lasting more or less forever.
新年决心总是那些远大而令人印象深刻的誓言，不过我们通常只会坚持很短的一段时间，差不多也就是在1月里我们能忍饥挨饿、每天运动还读普鲁斯特。但是，你懂的，比起做那些只持续数日或数周的极端蜕变，那些能多多少少能坚持下去的小改变往往对我们更有益。
Mostly, though, when it comes to diet, we are told the opposite. We have a billion-dollar industry based on fad diets and quick fixes: Eat nothing but foam packing peanuts and lemon tea, and you’ll lose 30 pounds in 30 days. Then what? Resolutions work only if we are resolute, and changes are meaningful only if they are permanent.
然而，大多数时候，在节食这件事上，我们得到的恰恰是相反的意见。我们有上亿美金的产业是基于流行性的节食和速效修身：除了减肥胶囊和柠檬茶以外什么也不吃，这样你就能在30天内减掉30磅。然后呢？新年决心只有在我们真的下定决心的时候才会起作用，而变化只有是永远有效的才有意义。
What follows are some of the easiest food-related resolutions you will ever make, from cooking big pots of grains and beans once a week, to buying frozen produce, to pickling things à la “Portlandia.” Committing to just a few of these, or even one, will get you moving in the right direction toward eating more plants and fewer animal products and processed foods. My suggestions are incremental, but the ease with which you can incorporate them into your normal shopping, cooking and eating routines is exactly what makes them sustainable and powerful.
接下来就是那些你完全可以做到的最简单的饮食攻略，从每周煮一大锅豆子和谷物，购买冷冻食品，到《波特兰迪亚》(Portlandia)剧集中的泡菜，只要坚持其中的几条，甚至只要一条，就可以让你减少摄入肉类和加工食品，并迈入多吃蔬果的正轨上。我的建议是循序渐进，要让任何决心持续有效和有力，就要将其自自然然地融入你的日常购物、烹饪和饮食习惯之中。
Flexitarianism is about making a gradual shift, not a complete overhaul. It is a way of eating we are much more likely to stick to for the long term — which, after all, is the point of resolutions in the first place.
弹性素食主义倡导的是渐进的转变而不是彻底颠覆。它是一种我们能容易长时间执行的饮食方式，归根结底，那是下定决心的初衷。
Cook simple, unseasoned vegetables every few days.
每隔几日做一次不加任何调料的蔬菜。
You can steam or parboil or microwave. Once cooked, vegetables keep a long time. And then they’re sitting there waiting to top pastas and grains, to bolster soups and salads, to whip up veggie wraps or just to reheat in oil or butter with seasonings.
你可以蒸、煮或是微波。经过烹调的蔬菜能保存较长时间。它们随时能与意大利面和粗粮搭配，做成汤和沙拉，卷蔬菜卷，直接过油或用本身有风味的黄油加热即可食用。
Leftover vegetable spread. Purée any leftover vegetables (as long as they are tender) in the food processor with olive oil, fresh parsley leaves, lemon juice, salt and pepper until the mixture reaches the consistency you want. Serve with bread, crackers or crudités. It’s nice on toast as breakfast.
余菜涂抹料理。将任何剩下的蔬菜（只要它们是软的）捣泥，混合橄榄油、新鲜的欧芹叶、柠檬汁、盐和胡椒加入搅拌器，搅拌直到你喜欢的粘稠度。就可以用来涂面包、饼干或是蘸蔬菜条。早餐用来抹吐司也相当不错。
Cook big batches of grains and beans.
粗粮豆类大锅煮。
Because it’s nearly effortless, and having cooked grains and beans on hand at all times makes day-to-day cooking a breeze. They will keep in the fridge up to a week.
它实在是太容易做了，而且有现成的粗粮和豆子在手，为日复一日的下厨偷来片刻闲情。它们放在冰箱里一个礼拜也不会坏。
White beans with kale and sausage. Sauté some loose Italian sausage in olive oil until lightly browned. Add minced garlic, cooked white beans, chopped kale, a splash of bean-cooking liquid or water, salt and pepper. Simmer until beans are hot and kale is wilted. To garnish, add oil and parsley.
甘蓝、香肠配白豆。将几根意大利香肠炒香，用橄榄油煎至微微焦黄。加入蒜末、熟白豆、切碎的甘蓝、一勺煮豆剩下的汤或是水、盐和胡椒。煨至豆子熟透，甘蓝变软。想要看起来更好看，可淋少许油并饰以欧芹。
Buy half as much meat, and make it better meat.
肉食数量减半，质量提升。
Thinking of eating meat as an indulgence lets you buy tastier, healthier, more sustainable meat without breaking the bank.
将吃肉视为一种奖赏会让你愿意去购买更美味、更健康、更有机的肉类而不必打破原则。
Thai beef salad. Grill, broil or pan-sear a small piece of flank or skirt steak until medium-rare; set aside. Toss salad greens; plenty of mint, cilantro and basil; chopped cucumber; and thinly sliced red onion. Dress with a mixture of lime juice, fish sauce, sesame oil, sugar and minced jalapeño. Thinly slice the steak and lay it on top; drizzle with a little more dressing and any meat juices. Garnish with herbs. 
泰式牛肉沙拉。烧烤、白灼或是用平底锅煎一小片牛肋排或侧腹橫肌牛排至半熟备用。将绿叶菜，足量薄荷叶、芫荽和罗勒，黄瓜丁，紫洋葱丝拌成沙拉。用青柠汁、鱼露、芝麻油、糖和墨西哥辣椒丁混合成调味汁。将牛排切成细条铺在沙拉上；淋上调味汁和煎牛排产生的肉汁。饰以绿叶。
Splurge when you can.
偶尔放纵。
That way, the foods you consider special treats are truly special. For me it’s dark chocolate, meat and cheese.
这样一来，任何对你来说是特殊待遇的食物就变得真正特别了起来。对我来说那就是黑巧克力、肉和奶酪。
Dark chocolate ganache. Heat 1 cup cream in a saucepan until steaming. Put 8 ounces chopped bittersweet chocolate in a bowl and pour the hot cream on top. Stir to melt and incorporate the chocolate; use immediately as a sauce, or cool to room temperature and whip to make a smooth frosting or filling.
黑巧克力甘那许（ganache，淋酱巧克力——译注）用深平底炖锅将一杯量奶油加热至冒热气。将8盎司黑巧克力碎倒入碗中，再倒入加热后的奶油。搅拌直至与巧克力完全融合。可以当做蘸酱即食，也可以冷却至室温后再打成巧克力酱用来做脆皮或是夹心。
Buy frozen fruits and vegetables.
购买冷冻水果和蔬菜。
Because out-of-season produce from halfway around the world doesn’t make much sense or taste best. Fruits and vegetables (from peaches, to corn, to squash) frozen when they are ripe are a better alternative, and incredibly convenient.
既然反季节食品经过了半个地球的旅行后通常不会好吃到哪里去，自然成熟时被速冻的当季果蔬（比如桃子、玉米、南瓜）是更好的选择，而且极其方便。
Frozen peach jam. Combine 1 pound frozen peaches, 1/4 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons lemon juice in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Bring to boil, then adjust heat so it bubbles steadily. Cook, stirring occasionally until thick, 15 to 30 minutes. Cool completely; it will keep in fridge at least a week.
速冻桃子酱。将1磅速冻桃子、四分之一杯糖和两餐勺柠檬汁在中号平底炖锅里混合，中火加热煮开。将火调至使其保持沸腾的温度，再煮15至30分钟，中间要时不时搅拌一下直至粘稠即可。冷却后可在冰箱保存至少一周。
Pickle.
腌渍泡菜。
So the copious amounts of fresh produce you buy never have to go to waste. And because it tastes good.
至于那些你买多了的新鲜食材也完全不要浪费，因为它们的确美味。
Quick-pickled cucumbers and radishes. Put thinly sliced cucumbers and radishes (use a mandoline if you have one) in a colander. Sprinkle with salt, gently rubbing it in with your hands. Let sit for 20 minutes, tossing and squeezing every few minutes. When little or no liquid comes out, rinse and put in a bowl. Toss with some sugar, dill and vinegar, and serve. Garnish with dill. 
快速腌黄瓜和水萝卜。将黄瓜和水萝卜切成薄片（有条件的可用切片器）放入搅拌器。撒上盐，用手稍微和一下。静置20分钟，每隔几分钟将水分挤一挤直到完全没有水溢出。冲洗后置于碗内，再加入糖、茴香叶和醋搅拌。上桌时饰以茴香。
Make your own hummus, bean dips and nut butters.
自制鹰嘴豆泥、豆酱和坚果酱。
With those around, vegetables and fruit practically dip themselves. You’ll be filling up on produce without even noticing it.
有了这些蘸酱，鲜蔬和水果就是现成的食物，你会在不知不觉中就摄入了足够的纯天然产品。
Hummus. In a processor or blender, combine cooked chickpeas, minced garlic, tahini, lemon juice, olive oil, salt and pepper. Purée; taste and adjust the seasoning. Garnish with oil, lemon and smoked paprika.
鹰嘴豆泥。用搅拌器或是磨豆机，将熟鹰嘴豆、蒜蓉、芝麻、柠檬汁、橄榄油、盐和胡椒混合，捣成糊状，边调味边试吃。上桌时佐以油、柠檬和红辣椒粉。
Make your own condiments.
自制调味料。
Store-bought versions of ketchup, barbecue sauce, salsa and the like are often loaded with preservatives and sugar. Besides, creating your own recipes is a blast.
市面上买来的番茄酱、烧烤酱、辣酱之类的东西通常都含有防腐剂和糖。除此之外，创造你自己的配方简直是酷毙了。
Marjoram pesto. In a small food processor, combine a cup of marjoram (leaves and small stems) and some garlic; process until finely minced. Add red wine vinegar and olive oil; purée. Add capers (about a tablespoon) and pulse a few times. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
墨角兰青酱。用一个小号的料理器，混合一杯墨角兰（叶子和嫩茎）和些许蒜，搅拌直到变成碎末。加入红酒醋和橄榄油；捣成泥。加入续随子（酸豆——译者注）（大约一餐匙），晃一会儿摇匀。用盐和胡椒提味。
Eat vegetables for breakfast.
全素早餐。
You already eat fruit for breakfast, so what’s so strange? Veggie-based breakfasts are common around the world: cucumber and tomato salads in Israel, pickled vegetables in Japan, a bean and tomato stew in parts of Africa. Think of it as a très chic international trend.
既然你已经用水果作早餐，这又何奇之有？全素早餐其实在全世界都很普遍：以色列的黄瓜番茄沙拉、日本的泡菜还有非洲好些地方的炖豆子和番茄。这可是国际范儿的至潮食尚。
Cauliflower tabbouleh. Pulse cauliflower florets in a food processor, or chop them by hand, until they are small bits resembling grains. Toss with chopped tomatoes, plenty of chopped parsley and mint, lemon juice, olive oil, salt and pepper. 
塔布勒菜花沙拉。将菜花切片用料理器打碎或切成米粒大小的碎末。与番茄碎、欧芹碎、薄荷碎、柠檬汁、橄榄油和胡椒混合即可。
Cook plants as you would meat.
用肉食烹饪法料理蔬菜。
Because bold, meaty flavors aren’t reserved just for flesh.
浓郁的肉香味其实并不仅仅存在于肉食中。
Breaded fried eggplant. Dredge 1/2-inch-thick eggplant slices in flour, then beaten egg, then bread crumbs. Put on a baking sheet lined with parchment and refrigerate at least 10 minutes (up to 3 hours). Shallow-fry (in batches, without crowding) in 1/4 inch olive oil in a large skillet until browned on both sides. Drain on paper towels. Garnish with parsley and lemon. 
煎茄饼。选取0.5英寸厚的茄子切成四片，打蛋，裹上面包屑。在烤盘上铺一层培油纸，将茄片放入，在冰箱里冷却至少10分钟，最多3小时。往烧烤盘加入没至四分之一英寸的橄榄油，将茄片排开（不要相互挨着）微微煎至两面焦黄。用纸巾将油吸干，上桌时饰以欧芹与柠檬。
Cooking for carnivores? Make extra sides.
为肉食者们下厨？整点儿额外的小吃。
Let the people around you have their fill of meat while you eat a bit, but fill up on vegetables, beans and grains.
让他们饱食肉类而你只是浅尝，让蔬菜、豆类与粗粮成为你的主菜。
Roasted broccoli gratin. Put broccoli florets in a baking dish; toss with olive oil, salt and pepper. Roast at 425 degrees until the tops are lightly browned and the stems nearly tender, 10 to 15 minutes. Sprinkle with bread crumbs (preferably homemade), mixed with Parmesan if you like, and a little more olive oil. Continue roasting until the bread crumbs are crisp. 
焗烤西兰花。西兰花切好放入烤盘，用橄榄油、盐和胡椒拌匀。用425度烤10至15分钟直到西兰花表层微微焦黄，花茎发软即可。撒上面包丁（最好是自制的了），如果你喜欢还可以加点帕玛森奶酪，再加上一点橄榄油。再烤一烤直到面包丁变脆。
Cook out of your comfort zone.
跳出你的烹饪舒适圈。
Because some of the best vegetable-centric food comes from halfway around the world, where it is “food,” not “flexitarian.”
许多最棒的纯素食料理来自于世界的另一端，在那里，它们就是“家常菜”，而不是“弹性素食”。
Caramel-braised tofu. Put 1 cup sugar and 1 tablespoon water in a deep cast-iron skillet over medium heat; cook until sugar liquefies and bubbles. When it darkens, turn off the heat. Carefully pour in 1/2 cup fish sauce and 1/2 cup water; cook over medium-high heat, stirring, until it becomes liquid caramel. Add sliced shallots, cubed, pressed or extra-firm tofu, lots of black pepper and lime juice. Simmer, stirring occasionally until the tofu is hot. 
焦糖炖豆腐。将一杯糖、一餐匙水加入一个深口铸铁小锅，中火加热，直到化成糖浆并煮开。当糖浆变为深色关火。小心加入半杯鱼露和半杯水，中高火加热，搅拌直到整个形成焦糖。加入红葱片、切成方块的硬豆腐（或北豆腐），大量黑胡椒和青柠汁。小火慢炖，适当搅拌直到豆腐完全热透即可。