More and more, cats and dogs get the human treatment. There are pet spas, pet therapists, pet clothes. And as it goes in life, so it now goes in the twilight. The latest phenomenon: pet hospice.
越来越多地，猫狗获得了人类的待遇。市面上出现了宠物美容院、宠物治疗师和宠物服装。在拓展到宠物生活的方方面面的同时，这一趋势也延续到了它们的晚年。最新的现象是：宠物临终关怀。
Around the country, a growing number of veterinarians are offering hospice care, and marketing it as a way to give cats and dogs — and their owners — a less anxious, more comfortable passing.
在美国各地，越来越多的兽医开始提供临终关怀服务，并在推销的时候宣称，这种方法能够给猫狗——以及他们的主人——一种不那么焦虑且更为舒适的死亡体验。
The approach, in the spirit of the human variety, entails ceasing aggressive medical treatment and giving pain and even anti-anxiety drugs. Unlike in hospice care for humans, euthanasia is an option — and in fact, is a big part of this end-of-life turn. When it’s time, the vet performs it in the living room, bedroom or wherever the family feels comfortable.
与人类的临终关怀类似，宠物关怀也意味着摒弃激进的治疗方式，为它们提供止痛药，乃至抗焦虑药物。不同之处在于，对动物进行临终关怀的时候，能够选用安乐死——事实上，这类服务中，安乐死占了大头。当宠物的大限到了，兽医就会在客厅、卧室，或者家人感到舒服的任何地方实施安乐死。
That’s a big part of the job, the vets say, relieving pet owner guilt, giving them an emotional bridge to a pet’s death, and letting them grieve at home — rather than in a clinic or animal shelter. The intimacy carries a premium, sometimes costing 25 percent or more than euthanasia in a clinic. Vets, and their customers, say it can be worth it.
兽医们表示，他们工作的很大一部分，就是缓解宠物主人们的愧疚感，帮助他们在情绪上接受宠物的死亡，同时使他们能够在家里进行哀悼——而不是在动物诊所或者收容所里面。当然，这种私密感也要付出额外的费用，有时候会比动物诊所的安乐死服务高出25%。不过，兽医及顾客均表示，这项服务值这个价钱。
“They’re in their own environment, not only the pet but the owners,” said Dr. Mary Gardner, co-founder of Lap of Love, a Florida-based company that is one of the leaders in a small but growing market. “They’re allowed to have other animals present, other cats or dogs present, other children,” added Dr. Gardner, who refers to a pet’s owner as its “mom” or “dad,” and has since relocated her own practice to Los Angeles. “I’ve been to some homes where they had barbecues for that dog, and invited me and the neighbors, and the dog was the man of the hour.”
挚爱关怀公司(Lap of Love)位于佛罗里达州，是这个发展迅速的小众市场的领军者之一。联合创始人玛丽·加德纳医生(Dr. Mary Gardner)表示，“不论是宠物还是主人，都能够身处自己熟悉的环境中。他们能够有别的动物陪在旁边，其他的猫狗，还有小朋友。”加德纳医生会把宠物主人叫做“妈妈”或者“爸爸”，后来将自己的生意搬到了洛杉矶。她还说，“有时候我到一些人家做客，他们会给狗办烧烤派对，还邀请我和邻居，而这只狗就是全场的明星。”
Lap of Love’s business has blossomed since 2010 from two providers to more than 68 vet partners in 18 states. The International Association for Animal Hospice and Palliative Care, a group started in 2009, now has 200 members, mostly vets, but also several family therapists, lawyers and an animal sanctuary in Northern California that takes in and provides holistic healing and hospice for terminally ill and elderly pets.
2010年开始，挚爱关怀公司的生意就蒸蒸日上，从当时的两个服务人员，发展到18个州超过68名合作兽医。国际动物临终关怀与舒缓治疗协会(International Association for Animal Hospice and Palliative Care)创始于2009年，现有200名会员，多数是兽医，也有几名家庭治疗师、律师，以及加利福尼亚州北部的一家动物庇护所。这家庇护所为老年和绝症宠物提供综合治疗和临终关怀服务。
“There is a formal end-of-life movement, a formal hospice movement,” said Dr. Eden Myers, a veterinarian in Kentucky who runs JustVetData.com, which tracks industry trends. Of the providers who do this, she said: “They’re everywhere.”
依登·梅尔斯医生(Dr. Eden Myers)是一位肯塔基州的兽医，运营着跟踪行业趋势的网站JustVetData.com。她说，“现在出现了正式的临终运动，一场正儿八经的关怀运动。”提到提供相关服务的人员的时候，她说，“到处都是。”
Dr. Amir Shanan, a vet in Chicago who started the International Association for Animal Hospice, described the movement as growing, but still not mainstream; veterinary schools are only now embracing the idea. “There are skeptics out there,” he said. “But 20 years ago, there was almost no one other than skeptics, and that’s changing rapidly.”
创立了国际动物临终关怀协会的是在芝加哥执业的兽医阿米尔·沙南医生(Dr. Amir Shanan) 。他认为，这项运动发展迅速，但是还没有进入主流；兽医学校现在才刚刚开始接纳这一观念。“现在还是存在质疑声。但20年前，几乎所有人都在质疑，而这一点正在快速改变，”他说。
There are no formal standards for this hospice care, and Dr. Shanan said there was a debate about what those standards should look like. “The core of the debate is who is to decide when is the right time to euthanize, if at all,” he said, noting that some hospice supporters advocate giving pets palliative care until they die naturally, as in human hospice.
此类临终服务并没有正式的标准，沙南医生也表示，对于标准的形式还有争议。他说，“争论的核心在于，究竟由谁来决定是否进行安乐死，以及究竟什么时候进行。”他指出，有的临终关怀的支持者提倡，应当给宠物提供舒缓治疗，直到它们自然死亡为止，就像人类的临终关怀一样。
Hospice and in-home euthanasia are different things. Their growth is owing to similar factors, says Dr. Myers, including a growing acceptance of hospice for humans, as well as cellphones, laptops and online marketing that make mobile vet services easier to operate. Plus, she said, more vets offer the services as a business alternative to the high cost of starting and maintaining a traditional clinic.
临终关怀和居家安乐死不是一回事。梅尔斯医生表示，两者之所以发展那么快，原因基本相同，包括对于人类临终关怀的日益认可，以及手机、笔记本电脑和在线营销手段的普及，这都使得兽医服务能够更容易地开展起来。她说，还有一点就是，很多兽医将这项服务作为传统兽医诊所的替换业务，毕竟后者的建立和运营成本高昂。
“And,” she added, “you’ve got people willing to spend scads of money on their pets.”
她还说，“此外，愿意为自家宠物花大价钱的人大有人在。”
For pet owners, the financial implications of this end-of-life movement cut two ways. In one light, hospice can be seen as reducing the cost of aggressive medical care, or it can be seen as its own version of aggressive comfort care, at least when compared to euthanizing a pet sooner.
对于宠物主人来说，这类临终关怀运动的财务影响具有两面性。一方面，临终关怀可以视为降低激进疗法费用的手段。另一方面，它可以被看成某种更积极的安适疗法，至少跟直接将宠物安乐死相比，确实是这样。
A hospice or euthanasia visit from Lap of Love generally costs $200 or $250, including drugs. Euthanasia at a clinic typically runs less, though prices vary widely, and is even less at a nonprofit shelter, like a local animal shelter. Some pet owners say costs are irrelevant given the peace of mind — their own.
挚爱关怀公司进行一次临终关怀或者上门安乐死服务，一般花费在200美元（约合1220元人民币）或者250美元。这里面包含了药物的费用。在动物诊所进行安乐死的花费低一些，虽然报价的波动范围比较大；如果去一家非营利的庇护所，例如当地的动物救助站，费用还会更低。一些宠物主人表示， 考虑到自己能够获得内心的安宁，费用并不是问题。
“It was more for me than him,” said Jan Dorr, a bookkeeper in Boca Raton, Fla., who was an early Lap of Love customer in 2010. She’d spent $5,000 on chemotherapy for her chocolate lab, Darby, but the dog’s health continued to fail. When she heard about the idea of pet hospice, her reaction was positive; a year earlier, her own father died after a positive hospice experience. She called Dr. Gardner, who helped make Darby comfortable by increasing his pain medications, and giving Ms. Dorr a checklist of ways to recognize when it was time to let go, such as when Darby stopped eating, walking or interacting.
詹·多尔(Jan Dorr)是佛罗里达州博卡拉顿的会计。 2010年，她成为了挚爱关怀公司的早期客户。她已经花费了5000美元为自己的巧克力色拉布拉多犬达比(Darby)进行化疗，但是它的健康还是持续恶化。听到宠物临终关怀的理念的时候，她的反应相当正面。一年之前，她的父亲就是接受了良好的临终关怀之后去世的。于是，她给加德纳医生打了电话。医生增加了达比的止痛剂用量，并提供给多尔一张确认单，教给她怎样判断放手的时机，例如达比不再进食、行走或者同主人交流。
When Darby’s condition worsened just days later, the vet returned to perform euthanasia. Ms. Dorr lay down on her bed with Darby, hugging him. 
仅仅几天之后，达比的状况继续恶化，兽医过来进行了安乐死。多尔抱着达比，一起躺在床上。
Dr. Michele Price, a veterinarian in Northern Virginia whose in-home end-of-care business has doubled since 2009 to 20 percent of her practice, got a call recently about an ailing Labrador named Champ. She’d first seen the dog in August when his owners thought it was time to euthanize. But when Dr. Price got to the house, Champ was doing O.K., and she and the family decided on hospice treatment and pain meds. Later, Champ took a sharp downward turn and couldn’t walk. Dr. Price returned and they set up for the euthanasia.
米歇尔·普莱斯医生(Dr. Michele Price)是在弗吉尼亚州北部执业的兽医，她的居家临终关怀业务量跟2009年相比翻了一倍，达到了总业务量的20%。她最近接到一个电话，与一只叫做昌普(Champ)的拉布拉多犬有关。她8月份第一次看到这只狗，当时主人以为差不多是时候进行安乐死了。但是，等普莱斯医生到主人家的时候，发现昌普其实身体还行，于是她跟主人全家还是决定采用临终关怀和止痛剂的方式。后来，昌普的身体急转直下，甚至不能行走了。普莱斯医生再次过来，并做好了安乐死的准备。
Champ was on a quilt next to the fireplace when Dr. Price administered the initial sedation. “They hugged him, and told him what a good dog he was. They said, ‘We love you’ and ‘We’ll miss you,’ ” Ms. Price said of the dog’s owners. As for Champ, “He fell asleep. That’s the last thing he remembered.”
昌普躺在壁炉边的褥子上，普莱斯医生给它注射了第一针镇定剂。提到主人的时候，她说，“他们搂着昌普，告诉它说，它确实是一条好狗。他们说，‘我们爱你’还有‘我们会想你的。’”至于昌普，“它睡着了。这就是它记忆里最后一件事情。”