Good morning, this is Brian Bowman of CNN on Day X with breaking news on Malaysia Airlines Flight 370: The zombie plane theory still has legs! Some aviation experts say it is gaining steam as the search in the South Indian Ocean, one of the most remote and windy places on the planet, continues in an area somewhere between the size of West Virginia and the United States. Now, what is the zombie scenario? Well, it’s a spooky possibility. That this Triple Seven, after making its famous left turn, flew on autopilot for hours with its crew and passengers incapacitated before crashing into the sea or, if you happen to think the Northern Corridor option is still open, in Central Asia. Of course, there are many theories floating around and vertical gyrations are not an autopilot maneuver and no theory at this point connects all the dots and that is why we have an investigation and why we intend to stay on top of this story.
早上好，这里是CNN的布莱恩·鲍曼(Brian Bowman)给您带来关于马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班第N天的最新消息：僵尸航班理论仍然盛行！随着搜索工作在南印度洋上展开，一些航空专家表示这种理论越来越火。搜索区域的面积介于西弗吉尼亚州到美国本土之间，属于地球上最偏远、风浪最大的地区。那么，僵尸理论到底是怎么说的？好吧，是种令人毛骨悚然的可能性：这架777进行了如今人尽皆知的左转向后，机组人员与乘客失能，飞机又自动驾驶了多个小时，最后坠海。又或者，如果你偏要认为北部走廊的可能性依然存在，那就是最后坠毁在中亚地区。当然了，还有很多理论满天飞，飞机的几次垂直旋转也不属于自动驾驶操作，而且此时此刻并没有任何理论能将所有事情解释通。因此，我们要进行调查；因此，我们准备一直关注这件事。
NEWS FLASH: President Vladimir Putin of Russia has invaded Crimea.
快讯插播：俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)出兵克里米亚。
Interesting development there, but back to our main story. We can reveal that everything is still on the table. There is so much inconsistent information on Flight 370 that it is frankly anyone’s guess as to what to take as gospel. But here’s some more breaking news: Today’s search is more visual, less technical. That’s because satellites from three countries have spotted what could be debris or even a wooden pallet from the plane floating in the rough seas of the “Roaring Forties,” where winds howl around the bottom of the world. Now the satellite images are blurry. There’s lots of junk in the sea. Wooden pallets are used in airline cargo holds but also in shipping. And, as you know, there were lots of missteps early on by the Malaysian authorities. Information from them has been a mess. So everything is pretty sketchy. Right now we just need a better haystack.
那里发生了有意思的进展，不过回到我们的主题。我们可以说，万事皆有可能。围绕着370航班，有太多的矛盾信息，实在是说不准哪一个是真的。然而，接下来是更多的新消息：今天的搜寻工作更多地靠眼力，而不是技术能力。这是因为，三个国家的卫星影像捕捉到了或许是飞机残骸、乃至机上木质货物托盘的东西。这些东西漂浮在“四十度啸风带”的险恶海域，位于狂风大作的南半球偏南地区。现在的卫星影像模糊不清；海上漂浮着很多垃圾；木制托盘确实用于航空货舱，但也用于船运货舱。而且，大家知道，马来西亚当局的初期应对错误连连。他们发出的信息一直乱七八糟。所以，每则讯息都相当粗糙。此时此刻我们真的需要更好地厘清大海捞飞机的范围。
NEWS FLASH: President Vladimir Putin of Russia has annexed Crimea.
快讯插播：俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京吞并克里米亚。
My apologies for these interruptions, folks; we will keep them to a minimum as we move forward with the mystery of Flight 370 on which, incidentally, lamb satay with peanut sauce was almost certainly served to Business Class and peanuts to Economy just before the flight’s transponder stopped. Here’s some breaking news: Contrary to rumors, the last computer transmission from the plane showed no route change. Is that a game changer? No. But it could undermine theories about the pilots preplanning a hijacking. On the other hand, isn’t it a coincidence too far that between Malaysian air space and Vietnamese air space, right in the dead zone, the plane disappears? Well, we’ve been here before, folks. What we need is solid evidence!
老是打扰，对不住各位了；我们将把插播保持在最少频率，继续谈370航班之谜。顺便提一句，就在机上的应答器停止工作前，沙爹羊肉配花生酱很可能已经送到了商务舱，花生小食则被送到了经济舱。接下来是一些最新消息：与传言矛盾的是，机上传回的最后一次计算机信息显示，没有发生航线变更。这改变了搜索的格局吗？没有。不过，这或许会破坏飞行员事先策划了劫机的种种理论。另一方面，飞机恰好在马来西亚和越南领空交界处的无信号区消失了，要说是巧合的话，岂不是太巧了？哎呀，我们已经想到过这些了，观众们。我们需要的是确凿的证据！
NEWS FLASH: President Vladimir Putin of Russia has massed troops on the eastern Ukrainian border.
快讯插播：俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京在乌克兰东部边境屯兵。
Other developments, schmother developments: Brian Bowman here bringing you the latest on Flight 370. I must relate a conversation I had with my neighbor this morning. I said I wondered where the plane went, and she said we’ll find out soon, and I asked what she meant, and she said, “Well, they’re coming for America.” And I said “Huh?” and she said, well, they hijacked the plane to come for us. So I asked, “Why us?” And she said, “Well, who else would they be coming for?” As you see, folks, people out there are getting pretty antsy. And here’s some breaking news: Mathematical techniques inspired by an 18th-century Presbyterian minister might help locate the plane. And, gosh, why the heck did the Malaysian authorities hide the fact that this passenger plane was full of lithium batteries, a hazardous and highly inflammable cargo?
其他进展，管他什么进展：布赖恩·鲍曼在这里为您带来370航班的最新消息。我必须提一下今天上午和邻居的一番对话。我说自己一直在想飞机去哪了，她说我们很快就会知道了，于是我问她什么意思，她回答，“哎，他们正冲着美国来。”我问，“啊？”然后她说，他们劫持了飞机就是为了对付我们。于是我问，“为什么就是我们？”她答，“哎呀，还能是为了谁？”正如大家伙看到的，人们开始变得很焦躁啊。接下来是一些最新消息：受18世纪的一位长老会牧师启发的数学技巧也许会对查找飞机的位置有所帮助。还有，天哪，到底为什么马来西亚当局要隐瞒这架客机尽是锂电池的事实？要知道，这些东西有害而且高度易燃！
NEWS FLASH: Russian troops have invaded eastern Ukraine.
快讯插播：俄军入侵乌克兰东部。
I’ve talked to my producers, folks, and there’ll be no more interruptions in our Flight 370 coverage. Don’t they look at the ratings? So I was reading The Onion and there was this great headline, “Families of Missing Flight Passengers Just Hoping Media Gets Closure It Needs.” Dead on! The piece quoted one relative saying, “This has been an extremely difficult time for the reporters and anchors covering this event; they have put their lives on hold.” And she also said, “It’s not surprising that they are obsessing around the clock, wondering what could have possibly occurred on board that flight.” It was a brilliant story, restored my faith in journalism.
各位观众，我跟制片人谈过了，不会再有任何事情干扰我们对370航班的报道了。难道他们就不看看收视率吗？对了，我浏览《洋葱报》(The Onion)的时候看到了一则超棒的标题《失踪航班家属热切希望媒体得到它们所需的释怀感》。可算说到点子上了！这条新闻引用了一名家属的话，“对报道这一事件的记者和新闻主播来说，这是一段极其艰难的日子；他们的生活无法继续。”她还说，“并不令人意外的是，他们夜以继日地痴迷其中，猜想着机上可能发生了什么样的事情。”这篇文章真心出色，让我重拾了对新闻的信念。
NEWS FLASH: President Vladimir Putin, citing need to restore Russian pride, invades Estonia, NATO member. President Obama says this will not stand. World War III begins.
快讯插播：弗拉基米尔·普京总统入侵北约成员国爱沙尼亚，旨在重振俄罗斯威望。奥巴马总统表示不会袖手旁观。第三次世界大战打响。
Folks, Americans are not sleeping tonight. There’s this big object passing over Malaysia and Indonesia. Why were military jets not scrambled? Were the facilities inoperative? Were the personnel asleep? Are they too embarrassed to man up and TELL US? Here’s some big breaking news: We may never know.
同胞们，美国今夜无眠。有一个庞大的物体飞越了马来西亚和印尼上空。为什么军用飞机没有紧急起飞？难道那么多设备没起作用？还是人都睡着了？或者他们觉得太丢人，无法鼓起勇气告诉我们？下面为您带来特大的最新消息：我们可能永远也没法知道。