LONDON — On an enormous electronic map of the globe in the modernist headquarters of a satellite company here, two green hexagons the size of dinner plates hovered off the west coast of Australia, revealing signals from an armada of ships and planes converged in the hunt for any remains of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
伦敦——在当今最先进的卫星通讯公司总部的一张极大的全球电子地图上，两个餐盘一样大小的绿色六边形标在澳大利亚的西海岸上方，揭示了大量船只和飞机正集结于此，寻找马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)MH370航班的残骸。
The searchers were there in large part because the company, Inmarsat, had produced an innovative analysis of a series of fleeting radio signals from the plane — picked up by one of its satellites in the hours after the jet, carrying 239 people, disappeared from radar screens March 8.
搜寻者在那片区域寻找的很大原因是，Inmarsat卫星通讯公司针对飞机的一系列短暂无线电信号做了一项创新性分析——在载有239人的飞机于3月8日从雷达屏消失的几个小时后，他们的一个卫星便接收到了这些信号。
Investigators say Inmarsat’s findings were critical to establishing that the Boeing 777-200 almost certainly crashed into the southern Indian Ocean. And more than a month since the flight took off, they remain among the few clues that investigators have as they try to piece together what happened.
调查人员称，Inmarsat的发现十分关键，因为这证实了这架波音777-200飞机几乎可以肯定已经坠入了南印度洋。而航班起飞后的一个多月里，这些仍然是调查人员用以推测事发过程的不多的几个线索之一。
This week, the search vessels moved to an area hundreds of miles northwest of Perth, where Australian and Chinese ships have detected multiple “pings” consistent with those of a plane’s underwater locater beacons — not far from where Inmarsat’s calculations helped narrow estimates of the plane’s last location. The most recent of those signals were detected on Wednesday and Thursday, prompting Australian officials leading the search to suggest that remains of the plane could be found soon.
本周，搜救船转移到珀斯西北部几千公里的区域，澳大利亚和中国船只在此探测到了几个脉冲信号，特征与飞机水下黑匣子信号相符——而这离在Inmarsat推算的帮助下缩小的飞机最后方位大致范围不远。最新的信号在周三和周四探测到，这也使澳大利亚负责搜索的官员提示，飞机的残骸可能会很快找到。
Through it all, the staff in Inmarsat’s east London control room have kept constant tabs on the global flow of mobile voice and data transmissions carried by its network of 11 satellites orbiting 22,000 miles above the earth. Superimposed upon the 21-foot-long map dominating a wall is a color-coded mosaic of cells, each spanning several hundred square miles.
自始至终，Inmarsat伦敦东部控制室里的员工都密切注视着全球移动通话和数据传输的流动，这些数据由离地球2.2万英里（约合3.5万公里）的轨道上运行的11个卫星获得。在长21英尺（约合6米）、占满墙面的地图之上，覆盖着不同颜色标注的单元格，每个代表着横跨几百平方英里的区域。
“The nature of our system is such that we can direct communications capacity very quickly to anywhere on the globe,” said Ruy Pinto, Inmarsat’s chief technology officer. “We are designed for that,” he added. “So when there is an event that we feel is going to require additional capacity or resources, we have a group of people that gets together and starts diverting resources to provide terminals, radio frequency and power.”
“我们可以迅速地将通讯能力转移到全球任何一个地方，这是我们的系统固有的特性，”Inmarsat的首席技术人员鲁伊·平托(Ruy Pinto)说。“我们的设计初衷就是如此，”他补充道。“所以当一个事件让我们感觉需要额外的能力或资源时，我们会召集一组人，然后他们开始把现有资源转移到提供终端、无线电频率和电力上。”
What Inmarsat’s system is not designed for is finding a missing jet.
而Inmarsat的系统设计初衷里并没有搜索失踪飞机这一项。
One of the most surprising elements of Inmarsat’s contribution to the search, according to investigators, was that satellite links — which are used mainly for transmitting maintenance data, not for navigation or even to communicate with air traffic control — could even be used to tease out the plane’s last known location.
根据调查人员所说，Inmarsat对搜索工作的贡献中，最大的惊喜是其卫星连接——主要用来传输维护数据，而不是导航甚至与空管交流——居然可以用来破解飞机的最后方位之谜。
As a communications company with $1.25 billion in revenue and 1,900 employees in more than 60 locations, Inmarsat has grown accustomed to playing a vital supporting role in world events, including conflicts and disaster relief. But in the case of the missing Malaysian jet, the company has found itself thrust, somewhat uncomfortably, into the spotlight.
作为一家拥有1900员工、12.5亿美元收益、遍布60多个地区的通讯公司，Inmarsat越来越习惯于在类似冲突和救灾的全球事件中扮演关键的支持角色。但在马航失踪飞机这起事件中，公司发现自己被推到了聚光灯下，对此感到有些不自在。
On a recent day, the cells over geopolitical hot spots like Crimea, Syria and Afghanistan were lit up in pink or yellow. They reflected a heavy concentration of satellite phones and portable broadband terminals in use by various military, media and relief organizations. Busy sea lanes near the English Channel, the Persian Gulf and the Straits of Malacca were tinted a deep green.
近日，克里米亚、叙利亚和阿富汗等地缘政治热点区域单元格亮起了粉色和黄色。这反映出了在这些地方，多方军队，媒体和救济组织正在高频率地使用卫星电话和宽带终端。而临近英吉利海峡、波斯湾和马六甲海峡的繁忙海上航线变成了深绿色。
Mr. Pinto pointed out the patch of activity off the Australian coast. But he and the handful of engineers who did the Flight 370 analysis maintained a stoic reserve.
平托指出了澳大利亚海岸的活动区域。但是他与分析370航班的一些工程师仍然持保留态度。
“There is no sense of a job well done quite yet, but that will probably come later,” said Mr. Pinto, 54, a Brazilian who joined Inmarsat as a software engineer in 1990. “There is a strong feeling that why we’re doing this is to help the investigation and try to help the families. We are very sure that our emotions, whatever they are, are nothing compared to their emotions, and we are very conscious that the story isn’t about us.”
“目前仍无迹象表明工作已经被很好地完成，但是这种情况可能晚些就会发生，”现年54岁、1990年作为软件工程师加入Inmarsat的巴西人平托说。“我们有种强烈的感觉，我们这样做是为了帮助调查并尝试帮助乘客的亲属。我们非常确定，我们的情绪不论如何都无法与他们的情绪相提并论，而且我们非常清楚这不是我们出风头的时候。”
Maritime communications still generate more than half of sales, while land-based services and bandwidth leasing — activities heavily dependent on government and military contracts — together represent about 30 percent of revenues. With a 48 percent share of the world’s mobile satellite communications market, Inmarsat is twice the size of its nearest competitor, Iridium of the United States.
海事通讯仍然能创造超过一半的销量，而地基服务和带宽租赁——这些活动对政府和军事合约的依赖非常严重——则在总收益中占了大约30%。Inmarsat在世界移动卫星通讯市场中占48%的份额，其规模是与它差距最小的竞争者、美国Iridium的规模的两倍。
Aeronautical services are Inmarsat’s smallest, but fastest growing, business; they generate revenues of $114 million in 2013, up 13 percent from 2012.
航空服务是Inmarsat规模最小、但增长最快的业务；2013年，它们共创造收益1.14亿美元（约合7亿元人民币），与2012年相比增加了13%。
Even as the recent economic downturn has slowed international shipping traffic and many government contracts have dried up because of budget constraints, Inmarsat has been investing $1.6 billion in upgrading its satellite network to provide even greater capacity and higher data transmission speeds.
虽然近期的经济衰退促使国际船运交通放缓，许多政府合约也因为预算限制而停止，Inmarsat还是投入了16亿美元升级卫星网络，以提供更强的能力和更快的数据传输速度。
The first of this new generation of satellites, called Global Express, was launched into orbit in December, and it will be joined by two more this year. Capable of running 100 times faster than its current systems, Global Express could enable new services like airborne videoconferencing or 3-D in-flight movies — as well as real-time streaming of location and performance information from a plane.
新一代卫星中的第一颗叫做Global Express，它于12月被送入轨道，今年还将有另外两颗卫星加入它的行列。Global Express能够以比它当前的系统快100倍的速度运行，使空中视频会议或空中3-D电影等新服务——以及从飞机上实时报告地点和运转信息——成为可能。
It is the disappearance of Flight 370, of course, that has revived debate in the aviation industry about the feasibility of continuous tracking of the nearly 100,000 flights that crisscross the skies each day.
当然，正是由于370航班的失踪，航空领域才重新开始争论，究竟持续追踪每天在天空中穿插飞过的将近10万架飞机是否可行。
Most airlines have until now been reluctant, though, to assume the costs of using even the scaled-down satellite tracking technology that Inmarsat and some other companies already offer. And air safety authorities have been slow to consider requiring airlines to install such equipment.
但是，大多数航空公司目前仍然不愿意承担使用小规模卫星追踪技术——Inmarsat和其他公司已经提供了这些技术——所需要的花费。在考虑要求航空公司安装这种设备方面，负责航空安全的官员也一直行动迟缓。
The latest version of Inmarsat’s aircraft broadband system is already capable of sending intermittent positioning and other cockpit data alongside the in-flight Internet and satellite phone services sold to passengers. Roughly 5,000 planes are fitted with the technology, Mr. Pinto said. But because the system has not yet been certified by regulators as a safety feature — that is expected late next year — many airlines continue to rely on older, cheaper technology. The lack of positioning data from Flight 370 led to Inmarsat’s laborious attempt to estimate the plane’s trajectory, an analysis that had never been done before.
最新版的Inmarsat飞机宽带系统目前已经能够通过卖给乘客的空中网络和卫星电话服务发送间歇性定位和其他驾驶舱数据了。平托说，大约5000架飞机都配有这项技术。但是由于监管者尚未认定该系统是一个安全设备——这个认定有望在明年晚些时候做出——许多航空公司仍在使用更旧更廉价的技术。由于370航班缺乏定位数据，所以Inmarsat不得不费力地估计飞机的飞行轨迹，这种分析此前从未有过。