GEORGE TOWN, Malaysia — Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, missing since March 8, is rapidly becoming a hot political issue in this country, with opposition politicians caustically criticizing the government’s handling of the search for the jet even as the government has focused public attention on the flight’s pilot, a supporter of the opposition.
马拉西亚乔治市——3月8日失踪的马航370次航班正在迅速成为该国的一个政治热点话题，反对派政治人物对政府搜索失联班机的处置手法提出了尖刻的指责；而与此同时，政府已把公众的注意力聚集到了客机的一名驾驶员身上，此人是反对派的支持者。
The acrimony grew on Wednesday evening when Hishammuddin Hussein, the defense minister, announced at the start of his daily news conference that data had been deleted on Feb. 3 from the flight simulator the pilot had at his home. The comment appeared to cast suspicion on the pilot, Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53.
这种刻薄的指责在周三晚间变本加厉，当时，在每日例行新闻发布会刚开始的时候，马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)宣布，53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)曾在2月3日删除了家里的飞行模拟器存储的数据。这番话似乎让人把怀疑的视线投向了机长。
By contrast, Mr. Hishammuddin and his aides have declined to make public many other specifics about the jet and its movements, saying that the investigation is still in progress.
然而，希沙姆丁和他的助手拒绝公布失联客机的其他许多细节和动向，称调查仍在进行中。
The authorities have not released radar data showing the plane’s track across Malaysia after it broke contact and veered off its original course. Nor have they released the possible locations of five of the six hourly satellite pings that the aircraft transmitted after it left Malaysian airspace, or published a timeline of precisely when various systems on the plane, a Boeing 777-200, ceased to function.
当局没有公布某些雷达数据，这些数据显示了飞机在失联并突然偏离预定航线后飞越马来西亚半岛的航迹。飞机离开马来西亚空域后曾六次向卫星发送脉冲信号，每小时一次，当局也没有公布其中五次发送时飞机的可能位置。此外，他们没有公布这架波音777-200客机上各种系统停止工作的确切时间。
Lim Guan Eng, the leader of Malaysia’s largest opposition party and the chief minister of Penang, an affluent state in northwest Malaysia, strongly criticized the government for the announcement about the data deletions from the pilot’s simulator. Mr. Lim said that it was unfair to the pilot, who is unable to defend himself.
政府宣布机长从模拟器中删除了数据，马来西亚最大反对党的党首林冠英(Lim Guan Eng)对政府的这一举措提出了强烈指责。林冠英说，这对机长不公，因为他没有为自己辩护的机会。林冠英还是槟榔屿州的首席部长，该州是马来西亚西北部的一个富裕州。
“It’s not fair to make or even impute any hidden motive until you have clear and irrefutable evidence,” he said. “Does it help us get closer to finding the plane?”
他说，“断言乃至暗指任何潜藏动机的做法是不公平的，除非你有无可辩驳的清晰证据。这么做对我们寻找失联班机有帮助吗？”
But James Chin, a professor of political science at the Kuala Lumpur campus of Monash University, said that the opposition faced considerable risks in defending the pilot.
不过，莫纳什大学(Monash University)吉隆坡校区政治学教授詹运豪(James Chin)说，反对派为机长辩护的做法蕴含着相当大的风险。
“The opposition will pay a very, very heavy political price if it turns out that the pilot was involved,” he said.
他说，“如果事实证明机长牵涉其中，反对派就得付出极其高昂的政治代价。”
Although financially troubled, state-controlled Malaysia Airlines is a national symbol, and its pilots and flight attendants have tended to enjoy broad public support. Dr. Chin said that so far, social media postings within Malaysia have indicated widespread skepticism that the pilot was involved in deliberately diverting the plane.
由国家控制的马来西亚航空公司深陷财务困境，但却依然是该国的一个象征，该公司的飞行员和空乘人员常常受到民众的广泛支持。詹运豪说，迄今为止，马来西亚境内的社交媒体发帖显示，公众对关于机长蓄意让飞机转向的推断存在广泛的怀疑。
In a sign of broad public distrust of the governing party, which has been in power since the country’s independence in 1957, the most talked-about theory about the plane on Malaysian social media has nothing do with the pilot: Dr. Chin said many people were posting that they believed that the plane was hijacked, and that the government was keeping it a secret while negotiating for the release of hostages.
马来西亚社交媒体上关于客机失踪的最热门猜测与飞行员毫无关系，这一迹象显示了民众对执政党的广泛不信任。詹运豪说，许多人发帖称，他们相信飞机是被劫持了，而政府正在和劫机者就释放人质进行谈判，同时对实情闭口不言。
Dr. Chin said he did not believe that theory.
詹运豪说，他不相信这种猜测。
The pilot, Mr. Zaharie, volunteered to work on last year’s successful re-election campaign of Sivarasa Rasiah, an opposition member of Parliament who represents his district.
去年，在反对派议员西华拉沙·拉西亚(Sivarasa Rasiah)代表机长扎哈里所在地区成功再次竞选的过程中，扎哈里曾自愿为西华拉沙的竞选活动效力。
Mr. Zaharie is also related to the daughter-in-law of Anwar Ibrahim, a politician who, since the late 1990s, has united the fractious opposition with calls for greater democracy and for a blend of multiculturalism with respect for Islamic values.
扎哈里还和政治人物安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)的儿媳有关联。从上世纪90年代末开始，安瓦尔把吵闹不休的反对派团结在了一起，呼吁实施更广泛的民主制度，并在尊重伊斯兰价值观的同时推行多元文化主义。
Mr. Sivarasa, like other opposition politicians, has criticized the government for having been slow to seek foreign help in the search for the plane and for releasing limited and sometimes contradictory information about the investigation.
和其他反对派政客一样，西华拉沙指责政府在寻求外国帮助搜索失联客机方面动作迟缓，并指责政府公布的调查信息有限，有时还自相矛盾。
The opposition received a narrow majority of the popular vote in national elections last May, but did not win a majority of the seats in Parliament because the boundaries of voting districts do not fully reflect the urbanization of the country and give disproportionate influence to rural voters, who tend to favor the governing party.
反对派在去年5月的全国选举中获得了微弱多数选票，但没有赢得议会的多数席位，因为选区的划分没有完全反映该国的城镇化水平，农村选民由此拥有不成比例的过大影响力，后者倾向于支持执政党。
The government contends that it is leaving partisanship aside as it presses ahead with the hunt for the jetliner and for an explanation of what happened. “The search for MH370 is bigger than politics; I urge all Malaysians to put their divisions aside,” Mr. Hishammuddin, who is also the acting transportation minister, said Tuesday.
马来西亚政府辩称，他们现在将党派问题搁置一边，加紧搜寻飞机，查明事情真相。兼任代理交通部长的希沙姆丁周二表示，“搜寻MH370航班比政治问题重要；我呼吁所有马来西亚人搁置分歧。”
After he announced the file deletion from the flight simulator, Mr. Hishammuddin also said Wednesday that all of the flight’s crew and passengers “remain innocent until proven otherwise.”
周三，在宣布飞行模拟器文件已被删除后，希沙姆丁还表示，飞机上所有机组人员及乘客“在被证明有罪之前仍然是清白的”。
Even so, Fuziah Salleh, one of the four vice presidents of Mr. Anwar’s political party, complained that the authorities’ focus on Mr. Zaharie was in part a maneuver meant to tie the opposition to the aircraft’s disappearance. “There’s a joke in Malaysia that if anything goes wrong, it’s Anwar’s fault,” she said.
即便如此，傅芝雅(Fuziah Salleh)仍然抱怨称，当局关注扎哈里的举动在某种程度上是一种策略，旨在将反对派与飞机失联事件联系起来。傅芝雅是安瓦尔所在政党的四名副主席之一。她说，“马来西亚流传着一个笑话，不管出了什么问题，都是安瓦尔的错。”
The mystery of Flight 370 comes at a tumultuous time in Malaysian politics. Mr. Anwar’s wife is the president of his party, the second-largest opposition party after Mr. Lim’s, and she is running for a seat in the state assembly of Selangor, the country’s largest and most affluent state, which surrounds Kuala Lumpur. The hotly contested by-election is set for Sunday.
370航班神秘消失，正值马来西亚政坛的混乱时期。安瓦尔的妻子担任其政党的主席，该党仅次于林冠英领导的政党，是马来西亚第二大反对党。安瓦尔的妻子目前正在竞选雪兰莪州议会的席位，这个环绕吉隆坡的州是马来西亚最大且最富裕的州。竞争激烈的补选将于周日进行。