Malaysia’s governing elite has clung to power without interruption since independence from Britain almost six decades ago through a combination of tight control of information, intimidation of the opposition and, until recently, robust economic growth.
近60年前脱离英国独立以来，凭借对信息的严密控制、对反对派的恐吓以及直到最近还很强劲的经济增长，马来西亚的统治精英一直牢牢把持着权力，不曾间断。
But worldwide bafflement at the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has challenged the country’s paternalistic political culture and exposed its coddled leaders to the withering judgments of critics from around the world.
然而，全世界对马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失踪一事的困惑已经对该国的专断政治文化提出了挑战，还让该国惯受娇纵的领导人受到了全世界批评人士的严厉评判。
Civilian and military leaders on Wednesday revealed that they had known for the past four days, but did not publicly disclose, that military radar had picked up signals of what may have been the missing aircraft. It appeared to be flying on a westerly course sharply off its intended flight path to Beijing.
文官政府和军方领导人周三透露，军方雷达曾接收到疑似失踪飞机发出的信号。过去四天他们一直知道此事，但却没有公布。飞机看上去是在往西飞，严重偏离其飞往北京的预定航线。
If the radar readings were from the missing plane, it could mean a radical reinterpretation of where it ended up. And it was only under a barrage of intense questioning on Wednesday from a room packed with reporters who had arrived from many countries that officials acknowledged that the last recorded radar plot point showed the jet flying in the direction of the Indian Ocean — and at a cruising altitude, suggesting it could have flown much farther.
如果雷达收到的信号确由失踪飞机发出，可能意味着要彻底重新解读飞机最终所在的位置。周三，在一个挤满了多国记者的房间里，官员是在连珠炮似的质问声中才承认，雷达最后一次记录的标绘点显示，飞机正在往印度洋方向飞行——而且处在巡航高度。这意味着飞机可能会飞到很远的地方。
That raised the question of why the information had not been released earlier.
人们由此质疑，马方为什么没有早点儿公布这一信息。
“The world is finally feeling the frustration that we’ve been experiencing for years,” said Lee Ee May, a management consultant and a former aide to a Malaysian opposition politician.
“全世界终于感受到了我们多年以来的失望情绪，”曾为马来西亚一名反对派政客担任助理的管理顾问李怡美（Lee Ee May，音译）说。
Ms. Lee said she was embarrassed when the country’s defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, the scion of a powerful political family, rejected a reporter’s assertion on Wednesday that the search for the airplane had been disordered.
李怡美说，周三，听到出身权势政治家族的国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)驳斥一名记者关于搜救工作混乱无序的说法，她觉得很尴尬。
“There is only confusion if you want it to see it as confusion,” Mr. Hishammuddin said at a news conference that unfolded before an international audience.
“如果你想把它看成混乱，就只能看到混乱，”希沙姆丁在一次新闻发布会上说。多国记者列席了这场新闻发布会。
Relatively free from natural disasters and other calamities, Malaysia has had little experience with handling a crisis on this scale. It is also an ethnically polarized society where talent often does not rise to the top of government because of patronage politics within the ruling party and a system of ethnic preferences that discourages or blocks the country’s minorities, mainly ethnic Chinese and Indians, from government service.
马来西亚遭受的自然灾害和其他灾祸相对较少，几乎没有应对这么大规模的危机的经验。同时，马来西亚还是一个族群分化的社会。因为执政党内部的任命制政治，以及阻拦或禁止该国少数族群从政的族群偏好制度，有才能的人经常无法跻身政府高层。该国少数族群主要是华人和印度人。
Ethnic Malays, who make up about half of the population, hold nearly all top government positions and receive a host of government preferences because of their status as “sons of the soil.”
约占人口半数的马来人几乎把持了所有的政府高层职位，并且凭借“本土儿女”的地位获得了许多政府优惠。
Authoritarian laws have helped keep the governing party, the United Malays National Organization, in power — and an ascendant opposition in check.
威权主义法律一直在帮助执政党马来民族统一机构(United Malays National Organization)把持权力，同时制约正在崛起的反对派。
The day before Flight 370 disappeared, the leader of the opposition, Anwar Ibrahim, was sentenced to five years under a sodomy law that is almost never enforced. Critics called the case an effort to block the opposition’s rise at a time when the governing party’s popularity is waning.
就在370航班失踪的前一天，反对派领袖安瓦尔·易卜拉欣(Anwar Ibrahim)被判五年监禁，依据则是一条几乎从未得到执行的鸡奸罪法律。批评人士称，该案的目的是在执政党声望不断下降时抑制反对派的上升势头。
Then on Tuesday, a court convicted Karpal Singh, another opposition politician, of sedition, a law enacted in colonial times.
周二，反对派政治人士卡巴·星(Karpal Singh)也被法院判定犯有煽动颠覆国家政权的罪行，依据是一条殖民时代颁布的法律。
“We call it persecution, not prosecution,” said Ambiga Sreenevasan, a lawyer and the former head of the Malaysian Bar Council.
“我们认为这是政治迫害，不是法律诉讼，”律师、马来西亚律师协会(Malaysian Bar Council)前负责人阿姆比加·斯里内瓦桑(Ambiga Sreenevasan)说。
The government is accustomed to getting its way, and the crisis surrounding the missing plane is holding officials accountable in ways unfamiliar to them, Ms. Ambiga said.
阿姆比加说，政府已经习惯了为所欲为，失踪航班引发的危机迫使官员承担责任，而他们不习惯承担责任。
“Malaysians have come to accept that their leaders don’t answer questions,” she said. “When you are not seriously challenged in any meaningful way, of course you get complacent and comfortable.”
“马来西亚人已经接受了他们的领导人不回答问题的事实，”她说。“如果你从未遭遇任何有意义的严峻挑战，你当然会觉得洋洋自得。”
For a relatively prosperous country of 30 million people that is less well known internationally than neighboring countries like Thailand and Singapore, the government’s confused efforts at finding the missing jetliner are an awkward and undesired appearance on the world stage.
相对富裕的马来西亚拥有3000万人口，国际知名度比不上泰国和新加坡等邻国。马来政府寻找失踪飞机的混乱举措是国际舞台上的一场不受欢迎的笨拙表演。
The crisis has led to introspection about why the government has appeared uncoordinated and unable to pin down seemingly basic facts about the missing flight.
此次危机促使有关部门开始反省，马来政府为什么会显得组织混乱，似乎还无法确定关于失踪航班的一些看起来很基本的事实。