When you have a child off at college, you worry about his general health, state of mind, alcohol use — and, as you sign those tuition checks, academic achievement.
如果你的孩子离家上大学，你会担心他的身体、他的心理状态，他是不是会酗酒——此外，在你出钱为他交学费时，也会担心他的学业。
But how much thought do you give to your child’s roommate?
可是，你会考虑到孩子的室友吗？
The college roommate relationship has been the focus of research in recent years: Economists and social scientists have used randomly paired roommates to examine “peer effects” and the ways that student behavior may be shaped by the luck of the draw. The studies show that roommate assignments can affect everything from academic performance to freshman weight gain.
大学室友关系是近年来研究的核心所在：经济学家和社会科学家曾使用随机配对的室友来研究“同伴效应”，以及大学生的行为可以从哪些方面受到运气的摆布。结果发现，室友的分配可以影响到从学业成绩到新生体重增长的方方面面。
Drinking habits can also have an impact. “The bottom line was we found that when you’re matched with a roommate who drinks alcohol, your grades are likely to go down,” said Dan Levy, a senior lecturer in public policy at Harvard and co-author of a 2008 study on college students and alcohol.
饮酒习惯也会带来影响。“说到底，我们发现如果你碰到了一个喝酒的室友，你的成绩也可能下降，”哈佛大学公共政策高级讲师丹·列维(Dan Levy)说。他在2008年曾与人合写了一份有关大学生与饮酒的研究。
When this research was originally published, some parents worried about the dangers posed by “social contagion” in the peer group. But more recent research has provided some surprising — and, for parents, rather reassuring — information about the way that students are affected by the mental illness of a roommate.
这份研究发表之初，一些家长担心在孩子的同学间会出现“社群感染”(social contagion)所导致的危害。但一些近期有关室友心理疾病产生影响的研究提供了一些令人意外——对家长们来说，则是让人如释重负的——信息。
In a study published last year, Daniel Eisenberg, an associate professor of health management and policy at the University of Michigan who directs an annual survey of college student mental health, including roommate issues, and his colleagues found no significant “contagion” effect of mental health from one roommate to another.
在去年发表的一份研究中，密歇根大学健康管理和政策副教授丹尼尔·埃森伯格(Daniel Eisenberg)和同事们发现，学生的心理健康不会给其室友带来显著的“感染”效应。埃森伯格是一项有关大学生心理健康的年度调查召集人。
“Mental health problems don’t seem to be contagious, so to speak, to a large degree between roommates,” Dr. Eisenberg told me. “For example, being assigned to a roommate with depressive symptoms doesn’t increase the likelihood of someone having an increase in their own depressive symptoms.”
“心理健康问题看来不会传染，也就是说，不会在室友间大规模传播，”埃森伯格博士告诉我，“比方说，接受安排，跟一个出现抑郁症状的室友同住，并不会增加一个人自身出现抑郁症状的可能性。”
Another 2013 study showed that binge drinking was the only “contagious” risky behavior; the others examined by the researchers, like smoking, gambling and sex with multiple partners, were not affected by a roommate’s practices.
2013年发表的另一份研究显示，酗酒是唯一的“感染性”危险行为；研究人员调查的其他行为，比如吸烟、赌博、滥交并不会影响到室友。
But even if mental health problems don’t cross the room like mononucleosis or the flu, plenty of issues — whether smaller distractions or larger moral dilemmas — may be posed by life with a roommate who is struggling.
不过，就算心理健康问题不会像单核细胞增多症或流感那样在寝室里蔓延，一个正历经苦痛的室友都会带来很多问题——不管是微妙的困扰还是更重大的道德两难境地。
Imagine you are a college freshman living (at substantial expense to your parents) in a relatively small space with someone who has been assigned to you in the interest of broadening your horizons and building strong peer relationships … or something to that effect.
想象一下，你是个大学新生，住在一个相对狭小的空间里（而且相当一部分花费是父母出的），你与人合住的本意是想要增长阅历，建立强有力的同伴纽带……诸如此类。
And you are beginning to feel that something is wrong with your roommate. He seems to have stopped going to class, or participating in extracurricular activities. She’s losing too much weight, and exercising fanatically. He has stopped taking the medication that helped keep him on track through high school. You think she may be cutting herself. You even wonder if she might be suicidal.
然后，你开始觉察到室友有什么不对劲。他好像在一直翘课，也不参加任何课外活动。她一下子瘦了好多，还一个劲健身。他不再服用药物，而正是这些药帮他撑过了高中那几年。你怀疑她在自残，甚至担心是否有自杀倾向。
“We don’t want roommates feeling they have to handle this on their own,” said Greg Eells, the director of counseling and psychological services at Cornell University. “A college residence hall is not a resident psychiatric ward. Sometimes the appropriate response is professional help.”
“我们不想让室友产生孤军奋战的感觉，”康奈尔大学心理咨询和服务中心主任格雷戈·埃尔斯(Greg Eells)说，“但是大学宿舍不是精神病院。有时最恰当的应对是专业帮助。”
And what about parents? As a pediatrician, I have certainly taken the occasional call about a roommate or classmate who is doing something strange, troubling or possibly dangerous, and my role has generally been to say, “Let your roommate know how worried you are, and why, and tell the resident adviser.”
至于父母呢？作为儿科医生，我偶尔会听到有人提及室友或同学做了些古怪、让人担心或有些危险的事情，而以我的立场，通常会回答说：“你可以让室友知道你有多担心，为什么这么担心，然后告诉舍监。”
Sometimes students absolutely don’t want to involve the university hierarchy because they’re afraid of getting a friend in trouble. And there has been criticism over the handling of mental health issues on campuses.
有时候学生们特别不想要把学校管理层扯进来，因为他们担心会给朋友惹麻烦。对于校园处置心理健康问题，一直以来确实存在诸多批评。
A student who feels some connection with a roommate’s parents may be more comfortable going for help to them — yet another reason to know and be known by your child’s roommate, at least a little.
如果学生感觉自己跟室友的家长能谈得来，也许直接向他们寻求帮助会觉得更踏实——了解和认识子女室友的理由又多了一个。
Sometimes a student fears angering the person in the upper bunk. Dr. Janis Whitlock, a research scientist at Cornell and a co-author of the 2013 studies, researches nonsuicidal self-injury; as an expert on a college mental health website, she deals with the concern that a roommate may be cutting herself, advising a worried roommate to get help.
有时候，学生会害怕惹恼了睡在上铺的兄弟。简妮丝·维特洛克(Janis Whitlock)博士是康奈尔大学的研究员，曾参与2013年一项有关非自杀性自残行为研究，作为大学心理健康网的专家，她长期为学生们解答有关室友有自残可能的疑问，并向忧虑的学生们提供寻求帮助的建议。
“In a lot of cases it’s a friend, a roommate, a peer, who noticed first and made the choice to tell an adult,” she said. Their roommates often feel anger and resentment about being found out, she added, “but in all cases, they’re grateful in the long run.”
“很多情况下，是朋友、室友、同伴首先注意到了蛛丝马迹，从而选择向成人汇报，”她说。他们的室友往往会因此而勃然大怒，但她补充说，“在所有案例中，到头来他们都会感激的。”