Mudejar tiles, the appetites of Francis Cardinal Spellman and a colossal sculpture by Ron Arad made from a whorl of steel rods that cost more than $1 million are just a few of the colliding, often ravishing visions now on view in the elegant spaces that once held the Urban Center in the Villard Houses at Madison Avenue and 51st Street — the home, for the next month, of the Kips Bay Decorator Show House.
无论是弗兰西斯·卡迪纳尔·斯贝尔曼(Francis Cardinal Spellman)十分喜爱的那些穆德哈尔(Mudejar)瓷砖，还是罗恩·阿拉德(Ron Arad)用数圈拱形钢条建造的一座价值超过一百万美元（约合人民币625万）的巨大雕塑，都只不过是那些反差强烈又勾魂摄魄的景观中的一小部分。这些设计，现在可以在麦迪逊大道(Madison Avenue)与51街(51st Street)间那栋维拉德大宅(Villard Houses)中的几处典雅场馆内看到。这里曾是“城市中心”（Urban Center，纽约建筑学联盟——译注）的大本营。下个月，这里将作为基普斯湾室内装修展(Kips Bay Decorator Show House)的举办地。
Since its inception in 1973, the show house has raised $19 million for the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club (or about 15 percent of its operating costs each year). And the container for this effort has always told a story not just about design and fantasy, but also about the city’s fortunes. For the first three decades, that container was invariably an Upper East Side townhouse, for years a fairly easy “get,” as so many for sale languished empty for so long.
该样板间展览会自1973年首次举办以来，已为“基普湾男孩女孩俱乐部”(Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club)筹集了1900万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）的资金（或此机构每年运营成本的15%）。而使得这一切发生的场地，总在讲述一个不仅有关设计理念与奇思妙想，而且涉及这座城市的命运的故事。起初那三十年，该展览的举办场所一成不变都是上东区的某栋联排别墅，那些年展览地点都很容易“得手”，因为许多待售房屋都死气沉沉地空置了很久。
But as the real estate market has heated up, boiled over and then reignited in the last decade, the show-house organizers have struggled to find spaces. Foreign buyers, who make up an increasingly large percentage of townhouse owners, are a cohort seemingly perplexed by (or uninterested in) the notion of lending property for a charitable cause, said Bunny Williams, the show-house chairwoman, even though many of their houses are empty. “They just don’t get it,” she said.
但在过去十年中，随着房地产市场的升温、过热和旺势再起，策展人们寻找场地已经很艰难了。展览主席邦妮·威廉姆斯(Bunny Williams)说，那些在联排别墅业主当中占例越来越大的外国买家们，是一群对外借房产做慈善这种理念，看似迷惑不解（或不感兴趣）的人，哪怕他们很多人的房屋都处于空置状态。“他们就是想不通。”她说。
As a result, the last few years have found the show house roaming the city, appearing one spring in the boxy, cookie-cutter apartments of Manhattan House on East 66th Street, another in a grim and glassy new condo development on the Far West Side.
结果，近些年来，该展览的举办地总是在纽约市里四处辗转。某年春天，展览办在东66街(East 66th Street)Manhattan House公寓楼中那几套像一个模子切出来的四方公寓里；隔了一年，又出现在西区较远处的一栋带玻璃幕墙、看起来阴沉肃穆的新共管公寓楼中。
One year, a developer who had promised a house snatched it back at the last moment when he found a buyer for it, forcing the abrupt cancellation of what had always been an annual spring rite. (Show-house organizers scrambled to find a house, and it opened six months later.) So, when Northwood Investors, the new owners of the Palace Hotel, which also owns the Villard Houses, offered the 51st Street space to Kips Bay, it was a kind of payback.
有一年，一位答应提供场地的开发商，在最后关头找到了一位买家，就把房屋收了回去，致使原本每年春天举办的展览被仓促取消（主办方后来想尽办法找了一栋房屋，让那次展会于6个月后开幕）。所以，当皇宫酒店(Palace Hotel)的新主人、也拥有这栋维拉德大宅的诺斯伍德投资公司(Northwood Investors)提出，要把51街的这个地方借给基普湾的时候，这其实是某种回报。 
The Villard Houses are among the loveliest landmarks in Manhattan, six townhouses built in the early 1880s and designed by what was then the young firm McKim, Mead & White to resemble a Renaissance palazzo spanning the rise on Madison Avenue from 50th to 51st Streets. Their developer, a German journalist, railroad magnate and abolitionist who christened himself Henry Villard when he came to this country to make his fortune, spent less than a year there. After hunkering down in the grandest of the houses when his finances unraveled, he fled to Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., his dream house a symbol of his failure, as William C. Shopsin and Mosette Glaser Broderick noted in “The Villard Houses: Life Story of a Landmark,” published by Viking Press in 1980.
这栋维拉德大宅，位列曼哈顿最漂亮的地标式建筑之一，包括了六栋建于19世纪80年代初的联排别墅，由当时初出茅庐的建筑设计公司McKim, Mead & White仿照文艺复兴时期的意大利式宫殿(palazzo)设计，耸立在麦迪逊大道旁，从50街一直延伸到51街。该楼群的开发商，一位到美国寻求财富时改信了基督教、得名亨利·维拉德(Henry Villard)的德国记者、铁路大亨兼废奴主义者，在那里住了不到一年时间。他刚刚适应这栋别墅的富丽堂皇，财务状况就露出了破绽，然后，他逃到了纽约州的杜波斯·费里村(Dobbs Ferry)。而他的梦想之屋，也成了他失败的标志，正如威廉姆斯·C·肖普辛(William C. Shopsin)和莫赛特·格拉泽·布罗德里克(Mosette Glaser Broderick)在1980年Viking出版社的《维拉德别墅：一座地标式建筑的生命历程》(The Villard Houses: Life Story of a Landmark)一书中提到的那样。
Though the houses were landmarked in 1968, they barely survived the 1970s, when the city careered into recession and the Archdiocese of New York, which had started buying up pieces of the place after World War II, offered Harry Helmsley a 99-year lease. That was in 1974. After six years of negotiations, Mr. Helmsley was allowed to slice off the easternmost sections to build his Palace there, the “harsh and dreary tower,” as the architecture critic Paul Goldberger once wrote in The Times, that now rises from the back of the Villard Houses. It is bland and hulking, to be sure, but the complex deal that Mr. Helmsley struck allowed him his hotel development in exchange for preserving and restoring not just the townhouses, but much of their extraordinary interiors as well.
这栋房屋虽于1968年成为了地标建筑，却仍差点没熬过那个70年代。当时这座城市一头扎进衰退之中，于是，二战后逐步将这里收购下来的纽约市大主教管辖区(Archdiocese of New York)，向哈利·赫尔姆斯利(Harry Helmsley)报出一份为期99年的租约。当时是1974年。经过6年的谈判，赫尔姆斯利获准拆除最东边的那几部分，来兴建他的宫殿，也就是那座“粗鄙而单调的大厦”，正如建筑批评家保罗·戈德伯格(Paul Goldberger)曾在《泰晤士报》中写的那样。那座高楼，现耸立于这栋维拉德豪宅的背后。虽然这座大厦毫无疑问是平庸难看的，但赫尔姆斯利所达成的复杂交易，让他得以开发自己的酒店，交换条件是，不仅要把这些联排别墅保留下来并恢复原貌，而且别墅中大部分非同寻常的内部装修也要保留。
One bright and chilly morning last week, this reporter stumbled, gape-mouthed, into the blood-red front parlor that the architect William T. Georgis had imagined, wickedly, as a retreat for Cardinal Spellman, the ambitious and controversial archbishop, Vietnam War booster and pal of Roy Cohn who died in 1967. There were a pair of male torsos (Hercules and Christ, of Roman and Renaissance provenance), antler stools, a Louis XV chandelier, a scary-looking George Condo bronze and a turquoise velvet sofa and club chair designed by Mr. Georgis for Maison Gerard. Blood-red resin dripped down a canvas by Piotr Uklanski.
在上星期的某个晴朗而寒冷的早晨，本文记者踉踉跄跄地踏入了前面这间血红色的会客厅，惊讶地合不拢嘴。建筑设计师威廉·T·乔治斯(William T. Georgis)已经不怀好意地把这里构想成那位雄心勃勃而备受争议的大主教、越南战争的提倡者以及1967年逝世的罗伊·科恩(Roy Cohn)的好友——卡迪纳尔·斯贝尔曼(Cardinal Spellman)的避难所。这里有两尊男性的躯体雕像（赫克里斯[Hercules]与基督[Christ]，风格出自罗马与文艺复兴时期）、几张鹿角凳子、一盏路易十五时期的枝形吊灯、一尊模样惊悚的乔治·康多(George Condo)青铜雕塑，和一张青绿色的天鹅绒沙发，以及由乔治斯为Maison Gerard家具公司设计的一张俱乐部椅。血红色的树脂从皮奥特尔·乌克兰斯基(Piotr Uklanski)的一张油画帆布上流淌下来。
Santa Sangre is the name Mr. Georgis gave a massive console of his own design, a long hunk of rough-hewed wood from which glossy red resin erupts — Dan Brown meets Marc Newson. (If you missed the point, look to the clutch of three rusty nails as big as your hand that Mr. Georgis has arranged on top.)
乔治斯为自己设计的一张超大案几取名为“圣血”(Santa Sangre)。这是一块胡乱劈出来的又长又大的木头，有晶莹的红色树脂从上面冒出来——感觉就像丹·布朗(Dan Brown)遇上了马克·纽森(Marc Newson)。（如果你看不出来，就瞧瞧乔治斯插在桌面上的这三根生锈的铆钉吧，和你手掌一般大。）
“Too much?” he asked, while the chorus of a Philip Glass opera ululated alarmingly.
“太夸张了吗？”他问，伴随着菲利普·格拉斯(Philip Glass)在某部歌剧的大合唱中发出的凄厉尖啸声。
Not really. It was just hard to believe that Mr. Georgis’s embroidered bishopric was the former home of the Urban Center bookstore. For three decades, the Municipal Art Society of New York, a key player in the deal to protect the Villard houses, had the lease of this, the northernmost house, in which it housed the center and bookstore, and the offices of the Architectural League. Until 2010, when the Municipal Art Society left for more modest quarters on 57th Street, the Urban Center was a meeting place, and a required pilgrimage, for architecture and design lovers.
并没有。只是很难相信，乔治斯装饰起来的这块主教领地，是“城市中心”(Urban Center)书店的旧址。而在这项交易中保护维拉德豪宅的一个关键角色，纽约都市艺术协会(Municipal Art Society of New York)三十年来一直租用着这个地方，和豪宅最北边协会设立了该中心和书店的那栋房屋，以及该建筑学联盟的几间办公室。这里的“城市中心”曾经一直是一处集会场所，和建筑设计爱好者们必须要去朝圣的地方，直到2010年该协会离开这里，搬到了57街上更加普通的场地。
It says everything about the archaic arts of preservation and book publishing that the Palace’s new owners are marketing the Urban Center’s space (more than 26,000 square feet in three floors) as a retail spot for a luxury-goods company (annual rent, $6 million).
这座宫殿的新主人，正在把“城市中心”的所在地（三楼超过2.6万平方英尺[约2415平方米]的面积）作为一处零售店面，推销给一家奢侈品公司（年租金600万美元[约合人民币3741万元]）。关于文物保护与图书出版，这件事已经说明了一切。
Certainly there is much here to tempt such a tenant. In the almost 40-foot-long former dining room, Tony Ingrao and Randy Kemper have poured a lifetime’s worth of collecting: Han dynasty pottery; an ancient bronze leg; a pair of voluptuous marble consoles designed by the 18th-century architect William Kent; a 17-foot chenille sofa; and that thunderously huge Ron Arad “fire screen” made from steel rods in a kind of fingerprint pattern, through which you could see a video of a fire burning.
当然了，这里还有很多地方吸引着这样一家租户。在这间曾经作为餐厅的、长约40英尺（约12米）的房间里，托尼·因格劳(Tony Ingrao)和兰迪·坎伯(Randy Kemper)倾注了一生的收藏：汉朝的陶器、一条古代的青铜腿、一对由18世纪建筑师威廉·肯特(William Kent)设计的让人赏心悦目的大理石案几、一张17英尺（约5.2米）长的雪尼尔沙发，还有那座赫然在目的巨型罗恩·阿拉德(Ron Arad)“火焰屏幕”，那上面以钢条拼出某种指纹的形状，你可以从中看见火焰燃烧的影像。
Mr. Ingrao explained that the screen had been made for a family in Aspen, Colo.: “It’s the only private commission Ron has ever done, and it took a year to convince him.” The room it was made for, however, has “gone in a different direction,” he said, and as for the $1 million-plus screen, “it is possible it could be available.”
因格劳解释说，这座屏幕本来是为科罗拉多州阿斯彭市(Aspen)的一家人设计的：“这是罗恩做过的唯一一个私人项目，他们花了一年的时间来说服他。”但原本要放置这件作品的房间，风格已变得“背道而驰，”他说。所以，这个价值100多万美元（约合人民币624万元）的屏幕，“很可能会闲置。”
Juan Montoya, the Colombian designer, was clearly having a marvelous time with the scale of his room, which abuts Mr. Ingrao and Mr. Kemper’s. “This is a luxury we don’t see every day,” he said. “It’s a beautiful 19th-century room: how do we respect it and at the same time challenge it?”
显然，哥伦比亚设计师胡安·蒙托亚(Juan Montoya)在他那个房间的比例上消磨了很多时间，那个房间就在因格劳与坎伯房间的旁边。“这是一种我们并不常能见识得到的奢华，”他说，“这是一间漂亮的19世纪的房间：我们怎样去尊重它的本来面貌，同时又能有所挑战呢？”
In the middle, a swoopy, double-sided faux astrakhan sofa is 16 feet long. A polished stainless-steel desk is 12 feet. A 3,000-pound basalt table by the Korean artist Byung Hoon Choi looks like a whale’s tooth. And over the fireplace, a wave of sculpted plaster recalls the smooth stucco interiors of modern Latin American architecture, though Mr. Montoya described it as being like a cashmere throw.
在房间中央，有一张很酷的人造俄罗斯羊羔皮沙发，两边都可以坐，长达16英尺（约5米），以及一张长12英尺（约3.7米）、光滑的不锈钢书桌。有一张由韩国艺术家崔秉勋(Byung Hoon Choi)设计的、重达3000磅（约1360公斤）的玄武岩石桌，看起来就像一颗鲸鱼的牙齿。还有壁炉那边，起伏的雕刻墙面让人想起现代拉丁美洲建筑中，那种灰泥粉饰的光滑墙面；不过，蒙托亚将其描述为一块喀什米尔羊绒。
In the front hall, Martyn Lawrence Bullard, Elton John’s decorator and a star of “Million Dollar Decorators” on Bravo, expressed his brand by throwing up a dizzying array of his own wallpaper patterns (black-and-white faux-marble patterns, for Schumacher) and, on the ceiling, black-and-white tile (in zebra prints, for Ann Sacks). Mr. Bullard said he was referencing Renzo Mongiardino, the Italian designer and art director (of Franco Zeffirelli’s “Romeo and Juliet”) who died in 1998 and was known for his love of exuberant trompe l’oeil finishes and “marble” wallpapers. If you are not steeped in the canon of the decorative arts, though, you might think, guiltily, as this reporter did, of Cruella De Vil.
在前厅处，埃尔顿·约翰(Elton John)的装修设计师、Bravo电视台《百万美元装修者》(“Million Dollar Decorators” )节目的明星马丁·劳伦斯·布拉德(Martyn Lawrence Bullard)，通过展示他设计的一系列让人眼花缭乱的壁纸图案（为舒马赫公司[Schumacher]设计的黑白色仿大理石图案），和贴在天花板上的黑白色瓷砖(为安萨克斯公司[Ann Sacks]设计的斑马纹)，表达了他的品牌观念。布拉德说他参考了意大利设计师、也是佛朗哥·泽菲雷里(Franco Zeffirelli)的影片《罗密欧与朱丽叶》的艺术指导伦佐·蒙贾尔迪诺(Renzo Mongiardino)的风格。这位设计师已于1998年去世，他因热爱细腻逼真的错觉画(trompe l’oeil)及“大理石”壁纸而广为人知。如果你没有对装饰艺术种种教义的深入理解，那么，你可能会像本文记者那样，深感内疚地想起库依拉·迪·威尔（Cruella De Vil，《101忠狗》里的反面角色——译注）。
Upstairs, in Carrier and Company’s paneled sitting room, there were more marbled walls, handmade in gold like the endpapers of 19th-century books, by Calico, the artisanal wallpaper makers in Brooklyn. Jesse Carrier and Mara Miller, who are married, make urbane interiors for Manhattan celebrities like the Bronfmans, the Seinfelds and Anna Wintour, whose new office in the Freedom Tower, Mr. Carrier said, might look something like this room. On the wall, a painting by ASVP, a pair of street artists, read, “We Can Give You What You Want,” in a gold font that resembled old-fashioned tattoo slogans.
楼上，由室内装修公司Carrier and Company设计的那间镶嵌了木板的起居室内，有好几面大理石墙壁以手工制成了19世纪书籍扉页的那种金黄色。设计师是布鲁克林区的工艺壁纸制造商Calico。杰西·卡里尔(Jesse Carrier)与玛拉·米勒(Mara Miller)已经结婚，他们为诸如布朗夫曼家族(Bronfmans)、辛菲尔德家族(the Seinfelds)与安娜·温特(Anna Wintour)之类的曼哈顿名流们提供典雅的室内设计方案。卡里尔说，安娜·温特设于自由大厦(Freedom Tower)中的新办公室，可能看起来有点像这个房间。这里的墙壁上，还有一张由街头艺术家双人组ASVP创作的画，上面写着“我们可以给你想要的东西。”字体是金色的，类似旧式纹身标语。
Alexa Hampton, who was spending the morning of her 43rd birthday in the house, also practiced a bit of Mongiardino-like stagecraft on the walls of her room. She was thinking about the patterns in Mudejar tiles, which she had Chuck Fischer, a decorative painter, work up in panels. Then she asked Duggal, the digital and photo printers, to print a canvas wallpaper from them, which she affixed to the walls in slightly irregular repeats. The effect was dazzling.
在这个房间度过自己43岁生日早晨的亚力克莎·汉普顿(Alexa Hampton)，也在她的房屋墙壁上实践了一丁点蒙贾尔迪诺(Mongiardino)般的舞台艺术。她正在考虑如何运用穆德哈尔(Mudejar)瓷砖的拼贴花纹。她已经让一位装饰画家查克·费舍尔(Chuck Fischer)把这种花纹画在了木板上；接着，她让从事数码打印与照片打印的道格(Duggal)，按照这些花纹印出了一张帆布壁纸；然后以不太规则的重复模式，将壁纸贴在了墙面上。效果惊人。
Ms. Hampton talked about her obsession with Studio Peregalli, the Milan design firm; how she “cyberstalked” the Italian photographer Massimo Listri for an image of Castello di Sammezzano, a Moorish folly in Northern Italy; and why she owes Robin Sacks, who hand-painted the stairwell from the second to the third floors, a bottle of tequila. (M. Listri was happy to lend her his print, Ms. Hampton explained, but it is very large and that stairway is very narrow.)
汉普顿谈及她对Studio Peregalli这家米兰设计公司的迷恋；谈及她如何为了一张摩尔人在意大利北部修建的一座华而不实的Sammezzano城堡照片，在网上跟踪这位意大利摄影师马斯莫·列斯德里(Massimo Listri)；还谈及了她为什么欠了帮她手工粉刷二、三楼楼梯间的罗宾·萨克斯(Robin Sacks)一瓶龙舌兰酒（列斯德里很乐意把作品借给她，汉普顿解释，但那张图非常大，而楼梯间却特别窄）。
Darryl Carter, the Washington-based designer whose work brings to mind John Saladino or maybe Axel Vervoordt, had flipped the Aubusson rug in his cool gray-and-white room to show off its rough weave. It’s more interesting that way, he said, “and you won’t worry so much about walking on it.”
这位会让人联想起约翰·萨拉迪诺(John Saladino)或阿塞尔·维伍德(Axel Vervoordt)的华盛顿设计师达瑞尔·卡特(Darryl Carter)，把他那间冷灰色与白色房间里的欧比松地毯(Aubusson rug)翻了过来，以炫耀地毯粗糙的织纹。那样更有趣，他说，“而且你走在上面也不会有顾虑。”
Mr. Carter had also interfered with a pair of 19th-century portraits, ripping the canvases from their frames and muzzling each figure with a smear of white paint on its mouth. “I call them the Happy Couple,” he said. “They looked too placid, if not vacated. I felt obliged to help them out.”
卡特还糟蹋了两幅19世纪的肖像画。他把画框里的帆布拆了下来，还用白颜料把每个人像的嘴封上了。“我称他俩为‘快乐的两口子’，”他说，“假如不让他们俩出位的话，看起来就太平和了。我觉得自己有责任帮他们摆脱这种困境。”
He added with a grin: “My opportunity to have a client I could really help. In fact, these are the ideal clients.”
他又咧嘴一笑：“这也是个机会，让我遇到一个自己真正能帮到的客户 。实际上，这些正是最理想的客户。”
Clients may be the ultimate buzzkill, particularly in this country. You have to pity the American designer: Here, there are no crumbling palazzos or chateaus or hôtel particuliers for them to stretch out in. Instead, it’s off to the 70th floor of the Time Warner Center, or a swollen McMansion in Greenwich, Aspen or Atlanta. No wonder they were having such a good time in this McKim, Mead & White prototype.
客户也可能是最让人扫兴的，尤其在这个国家。你不得不同情美国设计师：这里没有摇摇欲坠的豪华宫殿，没有什么城堡，也没有一些讲究的酒店让他们在其中大展拳脚。相反，他们去往了时代华纳中心大厦(Time Warner Center)的第70层，或是位于格林威治(Greenwich)、阿斯彭或亚特兰大(Atlanta)的某栋浮华的麦氏豪宅（McMansion，一种大型现代房屋，被大批量地建造，但缺乏个性和品味——译注）。难怪他们都不亦乐乎地上演着建筑设计公司McKim, Mead & White式的狂欢。
Markham Roberts decided to make a library for himself, he said, channeling Henri Samuel, the Rothschilds’ decorator, to do so. (See hôtel particuliers, above.) Among all the high European flourishes, some cunning D.I.Y.: a blowup of a photo that Mr. Roberts took of the Rubens Medusa (a particularly gory painting of a severed head that lives in a museum in Vienna) and an antique narwhal tusk that he had fitted with a 19th-century silver wedding cuff from Burma and a wooden base he had made himself.
马卡姆·罗伯茨(Markham Roberts)决定给自己造一间书房，他说，这样做得让罗斯柴尔德家族(Rothschilds)的装修设计师亨利·萨缪尔(Henri Samuel)灵魂附体（参见上文提到的讲究的酒店）。在所有新潮的欧式陈设当中，有些是巧妙D.I.Y的：有一张罗伯茨拍摄的鲁本斯笔下美杜莎(Rubens Medusa)相片的放大图（这是一张表现了被割头颅的血淋淋的画，现存于维也纳的一家博物馆里），还有一颗古老独角鲸的尖牙，他曾用这颗牙搭配一只19世纪的缅甸婚礼银手镯，和他自己做的一个木制手镯托。
“I have to sit here,” Mr. Roberts said. “I might as well be happy.”
“我必须坐在这里，”罗伯茨说。“我可能也会挺愉快。”
Happy endings were also on the mind of the designers at Cullman & Kravis, who attempted to collect an abundance of sexual references in their pink, gold and white bedroom while keeping it as G-rated as possible, Ellie Cullman said. Note the obelisks, she added, “an upright element.” (We counted 24.) There were also Japanese boxes, glass balls, a photograph from Laurie Simmons’s “Love Doll” series and a number of cheesecake portraits plucked from the New York City Firefighters calendar that Ms. Cullman’s associates had photocopied in black-and-white and placed in gold frames.
而Cullman & Kravis公司的设计师们，心中也想着那些幸福的大结局。该公司打算在他们那间粉红色、金色与白色的卧室里集中大量的性暗示，同时尽量让此房间保持在G级水平（G级在美国电影分级体系中为“大众级”，未成年人无需成人陪同也可观看——译注），艾莉·卡尔曼(Ellie Cullman)说。瞧这座方尖塔，她补充道，“这是一种竖直的元素。”（我们数了有24处）还有日本盒子、玻璃球、一张劳丽·西蒙斯“充气娃娃”系列(Laurie Simmons’s “Love Doll” series)的照片，以及大量从纽约市消防员日历上撕下的半裸女人画像。卡尔曼的同事已将这些画复印成了黑白照片，镶在金色的画框里。
Not every room was perfectly formed, or so strictly focused on the Beaux-Arts. One richly paneled room came with a circle of blue neon in its ceiling. Orlando Diaz-Azcuy Design Associates did a nice job of handling it by painting the ceiling blue, strewing the floor with white cowhide and veiling the carved paneling with drywall scrims. Alberto Villalobos and Mercedes Desio took a windowless closet, painted it black and turned it into a cabinet of curiosities. On the second-floor landing, a contemporary elevator door and some emergency and exit signage has become part of a mural by Victor Fung, a graffiti artist, with lighting by Rich Brilliant Willing, a group of three young furniture designers. They were just a few of the red-hot Brooklyn-based artists brought in by Will Meyer, of Meyer Davis, which designs hotels and restaurants like the Dutch in Miami.
并不是每个房间都完美无缺，或专注于布杂艺术风格(Braux-Arts)。有一间镶嵌了很多木板的房间，天花板上装了一圈蓝色霓虹灯。奥兰多·黛安兹-阿兹库建筑师事务所(Orlando Diaz-Azcuy Design Associates)把活儿做得非常漂亮。他们将天花板涂成了蓝色，地上到处铺着白色牛皮，并用纱布干板墙把雕花的木板挡了起来。阿尔贝托·维拉洛博斯与梅赛德斯·德西奥(Alberto Villalobos and Mercedes Desio)拿到了一间没有窗户的衣帽间，他们把这个房间涂成了黑色，并将其改为一间珍奇展厅。在二楼的楼梯口，一扇现代的电梯门和一些紧急情况与出口指示的标识，已经变成了涂鸦艺术家维克多·冯(Victor Fung)壁画的一部分。其灯光效果是由一个包括三名年轻家具设计师的团体(Rich Brilliant Willing)创作的。他们只是由迈耶·戴维斯(Meyer Davis)公司的威尔·迈耶(Will Meyer)带来的众多炙手可热的布鲁克林艺术家之一，设计类似迈阿密市(Miami)的Dutch那样的酒店和餐馆。
And not everyone goes to pieces over a house. Consider the recollections of Helen Winslow, now in her 90s, whose family owned two Villard Houses, Nos. 457 (this one) and 451. The other day, she recalled the view of St. Patrick’s Cathedral from her bedroom window at 451, and how she and her Chapin classmates liked to do their homework in the garden, which spread out on the eastern side, where the Palace now looms.
不是每个人都会东拼西凑地装修一栋房子，让我们来听听海伦·温斯洛(Helen Winslow)的回忆吧。如今她已经90多岁，其家族曾拥有维拉德豪宅中的两栋——457号（即这栋）与451号。那一天，她回忆起曾在451号别墅中，从她的卧室窗户看到圣帕特里克大教堂(St. Patrick’s Cathedral)的景色，还有她与查宾女校(Chapin)的同学们在那座绵延于东侧的花园中写家庭作业的情形。那也就是现在皇宫酒店(the Palace)出现的地方。
What was it like growing up in such a grand manner, and in such extraordinary architecture?
成长于如此奢华的环境、如此不凡的建筑物中，会是什么感觉呢？
“I never thought about it,” Mrs. Winslow said. “Better that way than being brought up to think you were better than your classmates. It was years before I realized the house was anything special. When you only know one thing, you have nothing to compare it to. To me, a house is a house, and that’s it.” 
“我从未想过这一点，”温斯洛说，“那比生来就觉得你比同学们要优越得多更好些吧。很多年后我才意识到这栋房屋的特别之处。如果你只看过一样东西，就会没有比较。对我来说，房子就是房子，仅此而已。”