CAIRO — One is setting a standard for dialogue and democracy that is the envy of the Arab world. The other has become a study in the risks of revolution, on a violent path that seems to lead only in circles.
开罗——一个正在制定对话和民主的标准，令阿拉伯世界羡慕不已。另一个则变成了有革命风险的典型，走上了一条似乎永远在绕圈子的暴力道路。
Tunisia and Egypt, the neighbors whose twin revolts ignited the Arab spring, are a dual lesson in the pitfalls and potentials for democracy across the region.
突尼斯和埃及两国爆发的叛乱引爆了阿拉伯之春。对整个地区而言，互为邻居的这两个国家是民主的隐患和潜能的双面教材。
On the third anniversary of the flight of the former strongman, President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, Tunisia’s constituent assembly was poised on Tuesday to approve a new constitution that is one of the most liberal in the Arab world. A carefully worded blend that has won the approval of both the governing Islamist party and its secular opposition, the new charter presents the region with a rare model of reconciliation over the vexing question of Islam’s role in public life.
在曾经的铁腕人物宰因·阿比丁·本·阿里(Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali)总统乘飞机离开突尼斯三周年之际，突尼斯制宪会议周二已准备好通过一部新宪法。这部宪法是阿拉伯世界自由主义色彩最浓的宪法之一，措辞谨慎，融合了各派观点，已经赢得了执政的伊斯兰政党及其世俗反对派的肯定。这部新宪法成为该地区一个罕见的典范，在伊斯兰教应该在公共生活中扮演什么角色这个令人头疼的问题上达成了和解。
Egyptians, meanwhile, trudged to the polls on Tuesday for their third referendum in three years to approve a new constitution: this time for one that validates the military ouster of their first fairly elected president, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood, and also gives power and immunity to both the military and police.
与此同时，埃及民众在周二步履沉重地前往投票所，参加三年来的第三次公投，决定是否通过一部新宪法：这次的宪法将认可军方推翻首位通过公平选举上台的总统、来自穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的做法，还向军队和警察授予权力和豁免权。
“ ‘Train wreck’ might be a charitable way to describe where Egypt is right now,” said Nathan Brown, an expert on Arab legal systems at George Washington University. In Tunisia, he said, “Everybody keeps dancing on the edge of a cliff but they never fall off.”
“要描述埃及现在的情况，‘火车车祸’可能是比较好听的说法了，”乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University) 研究阿拉伯法律制度的专家内森·布朗(Nathan Brown)说。他同时也表示，在突尼斯，“人人都在悬崖边上跳舞，但从来没人掉下去。”
The difference, scholars said, lies in the shape of the shards left after each country’s revolt. Tunisia’s brutal security police virtually collapsed during its revolt, while its small, professionalized military historically had no interest in political power. In civilian politics, its Islamist and secular factions were relatively evenly matched, with the Islamists winning only a plurality in Tunisia’s first free vote. Each side needed the other to govern.
一些学者称，这种差异在于两国暴乱过后留下的影响。在突尼斯的暴乱中，残暴的秘密警察基本上垮台了，而该国规模较小的职业化军队向来对政治权力不感兴趣。而在突尼斯的文官政治中，伊斯兰团体和世俗团体相对而言势均力敌。在突尼斯的首次自由选举中，伊斯兰派只是凭借相对多数获胜。如要执政，双方都需要对方的协助。
In Egypt, where the military has been a political player since Col. Gamal Abdel Nasser’s 1952 coup, the generals stepped in to remove former President Hosni Mubarak, himself a onetime military man, and never fully receded. Further complicating matters, each side of the political divide had reason to hope it might rule alone: the Islamists dominated the elections, while their opponents knew the military was waiting in the wings.
但在埃及，自贾迈勒·阿卜杜勒·纳赛尔(Gamal Abdel Nasser)上校1952年发动政变以来，军方一直参政。军方将领站了出来，迫使曾经也是军人的前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)下台，但也始终没有完全引退。让情况进一步复杂化的是，存在分歧的各政治派别都有理由觉得自己有机会独自掌权：伊斯兰派在选举中占主导地位，但他们的反对派知道，军方正在蓄势待发。
“The opposition knew that, first, it might never win another election, and, second, the military was there,” Mr. Brown said.
“反对派知道，首先，自己可能永远都无法赢得另一次选举，其次，有军方在，”布朗说。
With the ouster of Mr. Morsi and the violent crackdown on his supporters last summer, what started out as a revolution in Egypt became just another chapter in “the very old and always violent story” of “the rivalry between the security state and the Muslim Brotherhood,” said Zaid al-Ali, a legal expert in Cairo tracking both charters for the International Institute for Democracy Electoral Assistance.
为国际民主和选举援助研究所(International Institute for Democracy Electoral Assistance)研究两国宪法的法律专家扎伊德·阿里(Zaid al-Ali)表示，随着去年夏天穆尔西下台，其支持者遭到镇压，埃及这场运动以革命的形式开端，但却变成了“安全机构与穆兄会之间斗争”的又一篇章，讲述的是“一个非常古老且总是包含暴力的故事”。
“In Tunisia, we have turned the page completely, and you really feel that a revolution has taken place,” he said. “In Egypt, that is debatable.”
“在突尼斯，我们把那一页彻底翻过去了，你会真的感觉到发生过一场革命，”他说。“在埃及，这一点有待探讨。”
Tunisia, scarred by its own grinding and sometimes violent conflict between secular autocrats and political Islamists, was trapped in an even more restrictive police state than was Egypt, with less space for political participation or dissent before the revolt.
革命前，世俗独裁者和伊斯兰政治人士之间存在着严重的冲突，这种冲突有时还伴随着暴力，令突尼斯伤痕累累。统治突尼斯的那个警察国家有着比埃及还严厉的限制，政治参与和异议的空间更小。
Until mid-December, its process also appeared to teeter on the brink of collapse. There were assassinations of left-leaning political leaders and allegations that the moderate Islamist ruling party, Ennahda, had done too little to combat the rise of a militant Islamist insurgency. For five months, a political deadlock halted the drafting of the constitution.
直到12月中旬，突尼斯的制宪过程看上去还处在瓦解的边缘。左翼政治领袖被暗杀，有人还控诉温和的伊斯兰派执政党伊斯兰复兴运动党(Ennahda)对伊斯兰激进分子叛乱打击不力。政治僵局曾让宪法起草过程中断了五个月。
Perhaps prodded by the overthrow of the elected Islamists in Egypt, however, the two sides finally reached an accommodation last month, settling on a caretaker prime minister for the government and getting back to work on the charter.
然而，或许是受埃及民选伊斯兰领导人被推翻一事的刺激，双方终于在上月达成和解，同意让看守总理领导政府，并回归宪法的制定工作。
Ennahda won wording stating that Islam is the religion of Tunisia but gave up on any reference to Islamic law. “Tunisia is a free, independent and sovereign state, Islam is her religion, Arabic her language and republic her regime,” a clause of the constitutional preamble reads.
在称伊斯兰是突尼斯国教的措辞上，伊斯兰复兴运动党赢了一手，但它放弃了有关伊斯兰法的表述。“突尼斯是一个自由、独立的主权国家，伊斯兰教是她的宗教，阿拉伯语是她的语言，共和是她的政权，”宪法序言中的一个条款写道。
The more liberal parties, with strong lobbying from civil society groups, secured guarantees that Tunisia would remain a civil state with separation of powers and pledges of freedoms and rights. “Tunisia is a state of civil character, based on citizenship, the will of the people and the primacy of law,” the counterpart clause of the preamble reads.
更多的自由派政党、以及来自民间社会团体的强力游说，为突尼斯维持分权制的文官统治国家 、兑现自由和权利承诺提供了保障。序言中的对应条款写道，“突尼斯是一个文官制的国家。它以公民权、人民的意愿和至高无上的法律为基础。”
Neither clause can be amended by future governments.
这两个条款都是未来的政府不得修改的。
The constitutional assembly “finally found some equilibrium,” said Ghazi Gherairi, secretary general of the International Academy of Constitutional Law in Tunis, the capital. “It is a result of consensus and this is new in the Arab world.”
位于首都突尼斯市的国际宪法研究院(International Academy of Constitutional Law)秘书长加齐·加赖里(Ghazi Gherairi)说，制宪会议“最终找到了某种均衡状态。这是各方达成共识的结果，这在阿拉伯国家是一个新现象。”
Egypt’s referendum Tuesday appeared to be set to produce a near-unanimity in votes but hardly a consensus. A landslide approval is expected to open the presidential campaign by the military leader who removed Mr. Morsi, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi. Voters at several polling places seemed to doubt that anyone might vote against it.
周二的埃及公投似乎按照预设产生了一个近乎一致的表决结果，不过，这个结果几乎称不上是一种共识。压倒性的投票认可，有望开启以罢免穆尔西的军方领导人为首的总统大选，这个领导人就是阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)。好多投票点的选民似乎认为，不会有任何人对这部新宪法投反对票。
The public debate has been one-sided, to say the least. The Brotherhood is boycotting the referendum, dismissing the vote as an attempt to legitimate an illegal coup. The government has shut down Egyptian news media outlets sympathetic to the group, declared the Brotherhood a terrorist organization, jailed its leaders, seized its assets and criminalized membership.
至少，公开辩论一直呈现出一边倒的趋势。穆兄会正在抵制大选，他们斥责此次表决试图给非法的政变披上合法化外衣。政府关闭了同情穆兄会的埃及新闻媒体机构，宣布穆兄会是恐怖组织，穆兄会的领袖被关进监狱，财产被没收，组织成员被当成了罪犯。
In recent days, the new government has arrested at least seven activists merely for trying to hang signs or stickers opposing the new charter. On Tuesday, more were arrested, state news media reported.
近些天，新政府已经逮捕了至少七名活动人士，理由仅仅是因为他们试图悬挂反对新宪法的标语或贴纸。据官方新闻媒体报道，周二逮捕了更多的人。
The voting began with a small explosion near a court building in the Imbaba neighborhood of Giza, damaging the facade but injuring no one.
投票开始时，吉萨市伊姆巴巴街区的一幢法院建筑附近发生了一场小型爆炸，建筑表面受损，不过没有人受伤。
By nightfall, the ministry of health said that at least 11 people had died, but even the deaths were disputed. The Brotherhood said at least four of the dead were civilians, including a child, who had been killed by the police. The Interior Ministry said the four had been killed by members of the Brotherhood. Dozens of other supposed members of the Brotherhood were arrested on charges of attempting to disrupt the vote, but there were no major protests.
卫生部称，到黄昏时分已经至少有11人死亡，不过就连死者的身份都充满争议。穆兄会说至少有四名死者是平民，其中包括一名被警方杀死的儿童。内政部表示，这四人是被穆兄会的人杀害的。还有不少人因涉嫌试图扰乱投票被逮捕，他们被认为是穆兄会的人，不过没有出现大规模的抗议活动。
“This time it has surpassed Mubarak at the height of his authoritarianism,” said Hossam Bahgat, the founder of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights.
埃及个人权益倡议组织(Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights)创始人胡萨姆·巴赫贾特(Hossam Bahgat)说，“这一次的投票在独裁程度上已经超过了穆巴拉克时代。”