The Japanese animation director Hayao Miyazaki will retire from filmmaking, according to a report on Variety’s Web site. Mr. Miyazaki, 72, has directed 11 animated features over 34 years, including “My Neighbor Totoro,” “Princess Mononoke” and “Spirited Away,” which won an Oscar for best animated feature in 2003. Koji Hoshino, who is the president of Mr. Miyazaki’s production company, made the announcement on Sunday at the Venice Film Festival, where Mr. Miyazaki’s latest work, “The Wind Rises,” was shown. “Miyazaki has decided that ‘Kaze Tachinu’ (‘The Wind Rises’) will be his last film, and he will now retire,” Mr. Hoshino said. More details are to be revealed at a news conference in Tokyo next week. The language of the announcement does leave the door open for Mr. Miyazaki to work on shorter projects.
根据《综艺》(Variety)网站报道，日本动画导演宫崎骏宣布退休，不再拍摄电影。宫崎骏现年72岁，34年里执导拍摄了11部动画长篇，包括《龙猫》、《幽灵公主》和《千与千寻》。2003年，《千与千寻》赢得了奥斯卡最佳动画长片。宫崎骏制作公司的总裁星野康二星期日在威尼斯电影节上宣布了这一消息，宫崎骏的最后一部作品《起风了》在这次电影节上放映。“宫崎骏决定，《起风了》将是他的最后一部电影，他将会退休，”星野先生说。更多细节将会在下周于东京召开的新闻发布会上宣布。这个公告的措辞为宫崎先生继续拍摄短片作品留下了余地。
“The Wind Rises” has been met with some controversy in Japan and in South Korea. The film is a fictional account on the life of Jiro Horikoshi, the engineer who designed the Mitsubishi A6M Zero, a fighter plane used in the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. Some Japanese conservatives have criticized Mr. Miyazaki for the film’s antiwar stance, while a number of South Korean Internet users have accused him of romanticizing the inventor of a plane that became a symbol for the Japanese military during World War II.
《起风了》在日本和韩国都遇到了争议。这部影片是对掘越二郎的虚构性描写，他是设计了A6M零式战斗机的工程师，这种机型被用在1941年的偷袭珍珠港战役中。有些日本保守势力因为片中的反战姿态而批评宫崎骏。因为这种战斗机在“二战”中是日军的象征，因此一些韩国网民又指责宫崎骏把它的发明者浪漫化。
In a 2011 interview with Cut Magazine, translated into English in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Miyazaki explained his reasoning for making the film: “My wife and my staff would ask me, ‘Why make a story about a man who made weapons of war?’ ” he said. “And I thought they were right. But one day, I heard that Horikoshi had once murmured, ‘All I wanted to do was to make something beautiful.’ And then I knew I’d found my subject.” “The Wind Rises,” has made more than $80 million at the box office in six weeks in Japan.
2011年，宫崎骏接受《Cut》杂志的访谈，内容由《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)翻译成英文，他解释了自己拍摄这部影片的原因：“妻子和工作人员问我：‘为什么要拍一个制造战争武器的人的故事？’”他说，“我想他们是对的。但有一天，我听说掘越曾经喃喃自语，‘我只想创造美好的事物。’那之后我就明白自己找对了主人公。”《起风了》在日本6周内获得了8000万美元的票房收入。
Disney announced last week that it would handle theatrical distribution in the United States, although no release date has been set. The movie is slated to be shown this month at the Toronto International Film Festival and the New York Film Festival.
上周迪斯尼公司宣布取得了这部电影在美国的发行权，但上映日期还未最终决定。本月，这部电影将在多伦多国际电影节(Toronto International Film Festival)和纽约电影节(New York Film Festival)上映。