LOS ANGELES — “The Wind Rises” is the type of art film that typically speeds into the Oscar race. Critics at film festivals have swooned over its nuance. It delivers messages about turbulent modern times by examining traumatic events of the past. The film’s 72-year-old director and writer, Hayao Miyazaki, a cinematic giant, has said the ambitious animated picture will be his last, a final bow.
洛杉矶——《起风了》(The Wind Rises)是那种通常会迅速参与角逐奥斯卡的艺术片。电影节上，影评人已为它的细腻含蓄的风格所倾倒。通过审视过去发生的悲剧性事件，这部电影传达了关于动荡现代的信息。《起风了》72岁的导演、编剧、电影巨匠宫崎骏(Hayao Miyazaki)曾表示，这部志趣远大的动画电影将是他的收官之作，是他最后的致敬。
Instead, “The Wind Rises” is entering the Oscar competition on tiptoe.
然而，《起风了》在进入奥斯卡角逐时却十分谨慎。
The film, a box-office smash in Japan with ticket sales of $120 million, will play in New York and Los Angeles starting on Friday for one week, the minimum release time a movie can receive and still be eligible for the Academy Awards. A Hollywood producer who has taken the film under his wing, Frank Marshall, declined an interview request. The movie’s distributor, Walt Disney Studios, is also stepping carefully.
这部电影在日本大卖，收获1.2亿美元（约合7.3亿元人民币）票房收入。从周五开始，电影将在纽约和洛杉矶上映一周，对于一部想要有资格角逐奥斯卡金像奖的电影来说，一周是最短的上线时间。负责该电影制作的好莱坞制片人弗兰克·马歇尔(Frank Marshall)拒绝了采访请求。影片发行方华特迪士尼工作室(Walt Disney Studios)也在小心行事。
One explanation for the sensitivity? Although “The Wind Rises” has a strong pacifist message, it is essentially a biopic of Jiro Horikoshi, an aeronautical engineer whose contribution to the world was a killing machine. His designs led to the Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighter, which was used to devastating effect during World War II.
为何如此敏感呢？可能的一种解释是，尽管《起风了》传达了较强的反战信息，但它从本质上来说还是一部关于堀越二郎(Jiro Horikoshi)的传记——这名航空工程师为世界做出的贡献是一部杀戮机器。他的设计诞生了三菱(Mitsubishi)A6M零式(A6M Zero)战斗机，第二次世界大战期间该战斗机被派上战场，产生了毁灭性影响。
Mr. Miyazaki’s film, which is aimed at adults, also features at least eight scenes in which characters smoke cigarettes. That imagery, while historically correct, stirred controversy in Japan because of its potential impression on young viewers and could prompt an even louder reaction in North America, where animation is seen to a much greater degree as a product for children.
宫崎骏的这部电影以成人为目标受众，影片中出现了至少八个片中人物吸烟的场景。这些场景虽然具有历史真实性，但还是在日本引发了争议，原因是它可能会对年轻观众产生影响，并可能在北美引起甚至更为强烈的反应，因为在那里，动画片更多是被看做是面向儿童的产品。
“The main worry is that people will make a judgment about the film before they see it,” said Fran Krause, a professor of character animation at California Institute of the Arts. “There is a lot of subtlety to Miyazaki’s work, and this film in particular will require a lot of benefit of the doubt that people these days don’t often have.”
“主要的担心是，人们会在看电影前就对它做出一个判断，”加州艺术学院(California Institute of the Arts)角色动画学教授弗兰·克劳斯(Fran Krause)说。“宫崎骏的作品有很多微妙的表达，而这部电影尤其需要人们从善意的角度去理解它，现在人们通常不会这么做。”
Geoffrey Wexler, the international chief at Studio Ghibli, the Tokyo studio for which Mr. Miyazaki was a co-founder in 1985, expressed similar concerns in a telephone interview.
吉卜力工作室(Studio Ghibli)负责国际业务的主管杰弗里·韦克斯勒(Geoffrey Wexler)在接受电话采访时表达了相似的担忧。吉卜力工作室于1985年创立于东京，宫崎骏是其共同创始人。
“People have agendas, and it’s easy to use this film as your own,” Mr. Wexler said. Despite its antimilitary message, for instance, “The Wind Rises” has been denounced in South Korea as a celebration of Japan’s wartime aggression. Mr. Miyazaki and his film have meanwhile been criticized as unpatriotic by some conservatives in Japan, where the prime minister, wary of China’s rise, has pushed for a constitutional revision that would allow for a more muscular military.
“人们都有自己的目标，大家很容易按自己的目标去诠释这部电影，”韦克斯勒说。比如，尽管它传达了反战意涵，但在韩国还是一直倍受抨击，被认为是在庆祝日本战时的侵略。而在日本，一些保守派也批评称宫崎骏和他的电影不够爱国。日本首相担心中国崛起，已开始在国内力促修改宪法以建设一支更强大的日本军队。
Mr. Wexler said the film should be seen primarily for what it is — a love story, between two people and between a creator and his invention. “It’s may be a little bit corny, but he just wanted to design something beautiful,” Mr. Wexler said, referring to the Zero engineer. “He couldn’t pick the era he lived in.”
韦克斯勒说，人们应该看到这部电影所要传达的主要讯息，它是一部有关爱的故事，两个人之间的爱，以及一位发明者和他的发明之间的爱。“这听上去可能有点俗套，但他只是想设计出一件美丽的东西，”韦克斯勒说，他指的就是零式战斗机的设计师。“他无法选择自己生活的时代。”
Asked if lingering wartime tension could nonetheless sway Oscar voters, many of whom are older, Mr. Wexler said, “People who have been directly affected will have a more acute sensitivity.” Ultimately, however, the film’s backers believe there will be little to no effect.
尽管如此，在问到是否影响至今的战时矛盾还是会左右老年人居多的奥斯卡评奖人时，韦克斯勒说道，“受到过直接影响的人会更加敏感。”然而最终，电影支持者认为影响会很小，甚至没有。
Because of the smoking and other difficult imagery — animated bombs, a tuberculosis epidemic — Disney will release “The Wind Rises” at arm’s length. A dubbed version of the movie, set for limited release in the United States and Canada on Feb. 21, will be distributed on Disney’s Touchstone Pictures label. Mr. Miyazaki’s previous three movies, including “Spirited Away” (2002), which won the Oscar for best animated film, were released in North America under the flagship Disney logo.
由于吸烟、动画炸弹、肺结核疫情等棘手的画面，迪士尼发行《起风了》的时候会与之保持一定的距离。影片的配音版定于明年2月21日在美国和加拿大进行小规模上映，发行品牌则是迪斯尼旗下的试金石影片(Touchstone Pictures)。宫崎骏之前的三部作品，包括赢得奥斯卡最佳动画长片奖的《千与千寻》(Spirited Away, 2002)，在北美上映时都采用了旗舰发行品牌迪士尼。
Dave Hollis, Disney’s distribution chief, said in a statement that the studio is “honored” to bring Mr. Miyazaki’s latest film to domestic audiences. Disney has had a distribution relationship with Studio Ghibli for 16 years. By easing this darker picture into the Oscar race, Disney is hoping to secure a best animated film nomination (in January) that it can use as a marketing hook with audiences. Mr. Miyazaki’s work tends to struggle in North America, even with celebrities providing the English dubbing.
迪士尼的发行主管大卫·霍利斯(Dave Hollis)发表声明称，公司“很荣幸”能将宫崎骏的最新影片介绍给美国观众。迪士尼与吉卜力工作室的发行关系已持续了16年。通过小心地将这部较为黑暗的影片送审奥斯卡，迪士尼希望能（在明年1月）锁定一个奥斯卡最佳动画长片的提名，从而利用这一点来吸引观众。宫崎骏的作品在北美一直不太成功，就算是有明星进行英文配音也如此。
Indeed, just getting seen — by ticket buyers and voters alike — could be the biggest challenge for “The Wind Rises,” awards strategists say. Critics have praised the film’s nuanced handling of Japanese history and raved about its rural vistas and delicate pastel color palette. But some film buffs who have seen the movie at festivals in Venice, Toronto, New York and Telluride, Colo., have winced at its length: 126 minutes. There is a long sequence about rivets.
的确，一些奖项推手表示，无论是买票入场的观众，还是评奖人，让他们去看《起风了》，或许就是影片面临的最大挑战。影评人称赞该片对日本历史的细腻描绘，热烈追捧其中的乡村美景及柔和粉笔画般的淡彩。不过，126分钟的片长也使得在威尼斯、多伦多、纽约和科罗拉多州特柳赖德的电影节上看过本片的部分影迷不太满意。片中还有一场关于铆钉的长戏。
To that end, a little controversy might actually help the film, said Don Levy, a former awards strategist for Sony Pictures and a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. “To a certain extent, controversy sparks interest and curiosity,” he said. “I also trust voters. They can love or hate or have feelings toward a subject and still evaluate its artistic merit.”
曾为索尼影业(Sony Pictures)做奖项推广的唐·利维(Don Levy)表示，为了这个目标，小小争议或许对该片有利。利维也是美国电影艺术与科学学院(Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences)成员。“某种程度上，争议会引发兴趣和好奇，”他说。“我也相信评奖人。不管是对某一题材喜爱、痛恨，还是有特殊感情，他们还是会以艺术价值作为评判标准。”
Serious films have slipped into Oscar’s animation category before; “Persepolis,” about a girl coming of age in Iran at the onset of the Islamic Revolution, was nominated in 2008. But Mr. Levy, now an independent media consultant, noted that the Academy Award for best animated film has always gone to a child-friendly contender. “Brave” won in February.
严肃题材的影片以前也曾悄然入围奥斯卡的动画奖。2008年，讲述伊朗伊斯兰革命背景下一名女孩成长故事的《我在伊朗长大》(Persepolis)获得了提名。不过，目前从事独立媒体咨询工作的利维指出，奥斯卡最佳动画长片奖一般会授予小孩子们喜爱的入围作品。今年2月获奖的就是《勇敢传说》(Brave)。
On the plus side, he said, campaigners for “The Wind Rises” can waive the legacy flag: Don’t miss your last chance to honor Mr. Miyazaki. “I’ve created a stir several times before by saying that I’ll quit, but this time I’m serious,” Mr. Miyazaki said at a Sept. 6 news conference in Tokyo, citing his age and failing eyesight.
他还称，对《起风了》有利的一面是，造势者可以挥舞传世的大旗：可别错过最后一次礼赞宫崎骏的机会。9月6日，宫崎骏在东京召开新闻发布会，以年龄和视力下降为由宣布隐退，“我以前说过几次要退休，造成了一些波澜，不过这次是认真的。”
Mr. Krause of CalArts noted Studio Ghibli has a history of tackling extremely serious topics. “Grave of the Fireflies” was a grim 1988 film from the company about two starving children in postwar Japan. “I guess the difference is that, when it comes from a major director, it can still be a big surprise,” Mr. Krause said.
加州艺术学院的克劳斯指出，吉卜力工作室拥有涉足极严肃题材的传统。1988年，工作室出品了名为《萤火虫之墓》(Grave of the Fireflies)的阴郁作品，主角是二战后挨饿的两名日本小孩。“我想区别在于，如果是大导演的作品，还是会有惊人之处，”克劳斯说。