The two companies that make vaccines against cervical cancer announced Thursday that they would cut their prices to the world’s poorest countries below $5 per dose, eventually making it possible for millions of girls to be protected against a major cancer killer.
周四，两家生产宫颈癌疫苗的公司宣布，他们将为世界最贫穷的国家降低疫苗产品的价格，每剂降至5美元（约合31元人民币）以下，最终可能会让数百万名女性摆脱一种主要致命癌症的折磨。
Thanks to Pap tests, fatal cervical cancers are almost unknown today in rich countries. But the disease kills an estimated 275,000 women a year in poor countries where Pap tests are impractical and the vaccine is far too expensive for the average woman to afford, so the price cut could lead to a significant advance in women’s health.
多亏了宫颈刮片检查(Pap test)，致命的宫颈癌如今在富裕国家已几乎绝迹。但在贫穷国家，进行宫颈刮片检查是不现实的，而且对普通妇女来说，疫苗也太过昂贵，在这些国家，这种疾病每年导致约27.5万妇女死亡，因此降价将大大提高妇女的健康水平。
The World Health Organization, which has been pressing for faster progress in maternal health, greeted the news as “a great step forward for women and girls.”
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)一直在推动妇女孕产期保健的更快进步，该组织称这一消息是“保护女性方面的重大进步”。
When the new price was described, Dr. Paul D. Blumenthal, a professor of gynecology at the Stanford University School of Medicine who has pioneered cervical cancer prevention techniques in poor countries, said, “Mazel tov!” As long as there is enough affordable vaccine for the ever-growing populations of poor countries, he said, “this is good news for girls, women and their families.”
斯坦福大学医学院(Stanford University School of Medicine)妇科学教授保罗·D·布卢门撒尔(Paul D. Blumenthal)博士一直引领着学术界对穷国宫颈癌预防手段的探索，当新价格宣布后，他说，“恭喜啊！”他认为，对于穷国不断增加的人口来说，只要有足够的低价疫苗，“这对不同年龄的女性及其家人来说就都是好消息”。
The lower prices — $4.50 for Merck’s Gardasil vaccine and $4.60 for GlaxoSmithKline’s Cervarix — were negotiated through the GAVI Alliance, which was created in 1999 with a grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to deliver more vaccines to the world’s poor.
价格降低后，默克(Merck)的加卫苗(Gardasil)每剂为4.5美元，葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)的卉妍康(Cervarix)每剂为4.6美元。这些价格是通过“全球疫苗免疫联盟”（GAVI Alliance，简称GAVI）协商确定的。1999年，比尔和梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)拨款成立了该组织，目的在于向世界上的穷人发放更多疫苗。
The low price will initially apply to a few million doses for demonstration projects in Kenya, Ghana, Laos, Madagascar and elsewhere, but Dr. Seth Berkley, the alliance’s chief executive officer, said he hoped that by 2020, 30 million girls in 40 countries would get the vaccine at that price or less.
药品低价将首先适用于几百万剂投放到肯尼亚、加纳、老挝、马达加斯加及其他地区的示范项目中的药物。但GAVI的首席执行官塞思·伯克利博士(Seth Berkley)说，他希望到2020年时，将有40个国家的3000万个女孩能以这个价格或更低价格得到疫苗。
The vaccines must be kept refrigerated, and the three doses are normally given over six months — requirements that add to the difficulty of deploying them in poor countries.
这些疫苗必须冷藏保存，而且通常要在六个月时间里注射三剂，这种用药需求加大了在贫困国家分发药品的难度。
The vaccines cost about $130 a dose in the United States, and each girl needs three doses. The lowest price that any other agency or government has negotiated, Dr. Berkley said, is the $13 paid by the Pan American Health Organization, which negotiates a bulk price for Latin American countries.
在美国，每支疫苗大约需要130美元，每个女孩需要注射三支。伯克利说，其他机构或政府谈判的最低价格是泛美卫生组织(Pan American Health Organization)支付的每剂13美元，这是它为拉美国家协商的批发价。
Since Latin America includes a mix of poor and middle-income countries, the manufacturers do not offer rock-bottom prices there, he said. The alliance subsidizes vaccine costs for the poorest countries in Africa, Asia and elsewhere, with the subsidies shrinking as the countries get richer.
他说，由于拉丁美洲既有穷国，也有中等收入国家，所以生产商没有在这里提供最低价格。GAVI将为非洲、亚洲及其他地区最贫穷国家引进疫苗的花费提供补贴，随着这些国家变得越来越富裕，补贴金额就会逐渐减少。
The vaccines protect against the strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, that cause 70 percent of cervical cancers. The Merck one also prevents genital warts, which are caused by related viral strains.
疫苗是为了预防人类乳头瘤病毒(HPV)，70%的宫颈癌都是由这种病毒引起的。默克的疫苗还能预防由相关病毒株引发的生殖器疣。
Gardasil and Cervarix, given to girls as young as 9, have caused controversy in the United States, where many parents fear side effects and worry that girls will see the vaccines as condoning sex at a young age. The vast majority of girls in the United States have not been inoculated.
接种加卫苗和卉妍康的女孩年龄最低只有9岁，这在美国引起了争议。很多美国家长都害怕这些药物会产生副作用，而且也担心女孩们会以为接种疫苗便意味着容许她们在年纪尚轻时发生性行为。在美国，绝大部分女孩都没有接种疫苗。
In Australia, where the vaccines have been readily accepted, a recent study found a striking drop in cervical abnormalities, which are cancer precursors, among young women. In the five years after the vaccine was introduced there, cases of warts dropped by 93 percent among women and girls under age 21.
在澳大利亚，人们乐于接受此类疫苗。近期的一项研究发现，年轻女性出现宫颈异常状况的概率显著降低。宫颈异常是癌症的前导症状。在澳大利亚引入疫苗5年后，21岁以下女性患生殖器疣的病例降低了93%。
Despite the excitement among global health agencies, the charity Doctors Without Borders called the news “disappointing,” arguing that the prices should be even lower.
尽管全球卫生机构振奋不已，慈善组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)却称该消息“令人失望”，认为疫苗价格理应更低。
“Why are the pharmaceutical companies still making profits off the backs of the poorest countries?” asked Kate Elder, a vaccines policy specialist at the charity.
该组织的疫苗政策专员凯特·埃尔德(Kate Elder)问道，“为什么制药公司面对最贫穷的国家，仍然在赢利？”
HPV vaccines were developed with taxpayer money, largely from the National Institutes of Health, she said, and Glaxo and Merck have already reaped billions in profits from theirs.
她说，HPV疫苗是用纳税人的钱研制的，经费大部分来自美国国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)。葛兰素史克和默克公司已经通过销售各自的疫苗赚取了数十亿美元的利润。
Measles vaccines, invented 50 years ago, cost as little as 25 cents to produce, and Ms. Elder said she believed HPV vaccines could be made for as little as $1 a dose. She acknowledged, however, that her only evidence of that was an unofficial estimate by Pan American Health Organization experts.
埃尔德说，50年前发明的麻疹疫苗，生产成本只有区区25美分。她认为，每剂HPV疫苗的生产成本可能只有1美元。不过，她承认，她唯一的证据是泛美卫生组织的专家们做出的一项非官方评估。
A spokeswoman for the organization declined to discuss its assessment of manufacturing costs because its own price negotiations are continuing.
泛美卫生组织的一名女发言人拒绝讨论该组织对疫苗生产价格所做的评估，因为该组织的价格谈判仍在继续。
Dr. Julie Gerberding, a former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention who is president of Merck’s vaccine division, said $4.50 was Merck’s manufacturing cost, with no previous research, marketing or other costs built in.
美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)前主任朱丽叶·格贝尔丁(Julie Gerberding)博士是默克公司疫苗分部主管，她说，默克的每剂疫苗生产成本是4.5美元，其中还不包括前期研究、市场推广或其他投入。
“The price is what we calculate to be our cost of goods — we could be off by a few cents but not more,” she said. “As we expand volumes, the cost per unit can go down. Our intent is to sell it to GAVI at a price that does not bring profit to Merck.”
她说：“该价格是我们计算的商品成本价，我们还能降几美分，不过没法再多了。随着我们扩大产量，每剂疫苗的价格是能够下降的。我们的意图是以不赢利的价格把疫苗卖给GAVI。”
Glaxo declined on Wednesday to disclose its manufacturing costs, but noted that it had always been in first place on the Access to Medicines index, which was introduced in 2008 as a measure of how well pharmaceutical companies get their goods to the poor. A company representative said it would not make a profit on the vaccine at the new price.
周三，葛兰素史克拒绝披露其疫苗生产成本，不过，该公司指出，它在医药使用权指数排名(Access to Medicines index)上总是位列第一，该指数于2008年推出，是一项评估穷人获得制药公司产品难易度的指标。该公司一名代表说，葛兰素史克从新价格上赚不到钱。