Beyond the cellphone stores and the motorcycles buzzing like flies in the 100-degree heat, the hometown of Gabriel García Márquez still has some magic in it.
除了手机店和像苍蝇一样在100华氏度高温中嗡嗡作响的摩托车，加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel García Márquez)的故乡仍然拥有某种魔幻色彩。
It is still a place where dilapidated wooden houses hide shady gardens that hint at furtive mysteries, where a 96-year-old woman gets her toenails painted pink and keeps songbirds in cages, and where squealing children swim in irrigation canals flowing beside sun-blasted streets.
破旧的木屋挡住树木成荫的神秘花园；96岁的老妇人把脚趾甲涂成粉色，把黄莺关在笼子；尖叫的孩子们在阳光暴晒的街道旁边的灌溉渠中游泳。
Mr. García Márquez, the Nobel Prize-winning writer who died at age 87 on Thursday, will be remembered at a memorial service in Mexico City on Monday, attended by the presidents of Colombia and Mexico and cultural luminaries (though perhaps none who shines as brightly as Mr. García Márquez, who has been called the most famous writer on the planet).
诺贝尔文学奖获得者加西亚·马尔克斯周四去世，享年87岁。周一在墨西哥城举办一场追悼会，哥伦比亚总统、墨西哥总统和一些文化名人（虽然也许他们谁也不像加西亚·马尔克斯那么耀眼，他被称为世界上最出名的作家）将出席。
Mr. García Márquez left this dusty town when he was still a boy, but he later reached back to his time here as the source for his greatest work, defined by a style known as magical realism. Aracataca became the model for Macondo, the town that serves as the stage for his masterwork, “One Hundred Years of Solitude.”
加西亚·马尔克斯很小的时候就离开了这个满是灰尘的小城，但是他后来以童年的故乡为灵感，创作出自己最伟大的作品，其风格被称为魔幻现实主义。阿拉卡塔卡成了他的经典杰作《百年孤独》(One Hundred Years of Solitude)中马孔多镇的原型。
Most of his time here was spent in the home of his maternal grandparents, where he soaked up the stories told by his grandmother and other relatives. He said that it was his grandmother’s matter-of-fact way of telling the most fantastic stories that inspired the narrator’s voice in “One Hundred Years of Solitude.”
他在这里的大部分时间是在外祖父母家度过的，外祖母和其他亲戚讲的故事令他沉迷其中。他说外祖母用天经地义的口吻讲述最离奇的故事，《百年孤独》的叙事采用的正是这种口吻。
Now the site of his grandparents’ home, where he was born and which fed the vibrant world of his fiction, has been turned into a tidy museum. Parts of the original wood home remained until a few years ago, but that was all knocked down and rebuilt, according to the museum director, Daniel López.
现在，他外祖父母的家——也是他的出生地，乃至他充满活力的小说世界的源泉——变成了一个整洁的小博物馆。据该博物馆的馆长丹尼尔·洛佩斯(Daniel López)说，本来木屋子还保留了好几部分，几年前被全部推倒重建。
In its place is a neat, whitewashed structure that in some ways resembles a Swiss chalet more than the local wood architectural style it is meant to mimic.
在原址上建起来的是一个整洁的白色房子，它更像一个瑞士小屋，而不像本打算模仿的当地木房子。
Much of Mr. García Márquez’s adult life was spent in Mexico, where he died last Thursday. He was cremated and the Colombian ambassador to Mexico said that a portion of his ashes would be brought home to Colombia, although it was not clear where they would reside.
加西亚·马尔克斯成年后的大部分时间是在墨西哥度过的，上周四他也是在这里去世的。他的遗体被火化，哥伦比亚驻墨西哥大使说他的部分骨灰将被运回哥伦比亚，不过不知道会放在哪里。
Cataqueros, as the people from Aracataca are called, said they hoped the ashes would be brought here, perhaps to be kept in the museum.
阿拉卡塔卡人说他们希望骨灰被运回这里，也许就放在那个博物馆里。
“That is the clamor of all Cataqueros,” said Fabián Marriaga, 60, a lawyer whose father-in-law, Luis Carmelo Correa, was a lifelong friend of Mr. García Márquez. He said that the author would call his father-in-law while he was writing to check details on their boyhood home.
“那是阿拉卡塔卡人的强烈要求，”60岁的律师法比安·马里亚加(Fabián Marriaga)说。他的岳父路易斯·卡梅洛·科雷亚(Luis Carmelo Correa)是加西亚·马尔克斯一生的朋友。他说，这位作家写作时有时会给他岳父打电话，核实他们童年家乡的一些细节。
“We’re in a great crusade now to have them give us some of his ashes to rest here,” Mr. Marriaga said.
“现在我们在进行一场大圣战，要求他们把他的一些骨灰放在这里栖息，”马里亚加说。
Aracataca’s mayor, Tufith Hatum, said that the town would hold a ceremonial funeral procession on Monday to coincide with the memorial in Mexico. President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia will preside over a memorial service in Bogotá on Tuesday.
阿拉卡塔卡市长图菲思·哈图姆(Tufith Hatum)说周一该市会举办一个仪式性的送葬活动，与在墨西哥举办的追悼会同时举行。哥伦比亚总统胡安·曼纽尔·桑托斯(Juan Manuel Santos)周二将在波哥大主持一个追悼会。
Early in the 20th century, Aracataca was a boomtown dominated by American banana companies. Today it is a dusty, hot place with about 40,000 residents, its population swelled in recent years by thousands of refugees from Colombia’s endemic violence, displaced by guerrilla groups or, particularly in this area, right-wing paramilitary groups.
20世纪初，阿拉卡塔卡是个被美国香蕉公司主导的新兴城市。如今，它是个满是灰尘的、炎热的地方，大约有四万名居民，它的人口近些年急剧增长，因为哥伦比亚的地方性暴乱产生了成千上万名难民。暴乱是游击队造成的，在这个地区，主要是右翼准军事部队。
There is a lack of good jobs and an illegal-drug problem. Many streets are unpaved. Only about a third of the homes receive water that is fit to drink. And while trucks carrying green bananas are still a common sight, oil palm plantations have replaced many banana groves.
这里没有好工作，还有非法毒品问题。很多街道没有铺柏油路。只有大约三分之一的家户有适合饮用的自来水。虽然拉着绿香蕉的卡车仍然十分常见，但是油棕种植已经取代了很多香蕉林。
The town is the opposite of a tourist trap. Beyond the museum and a pool hall that calls itself Macondo Billiards, there is little effort to take advantage of its connection with the famous man. There are no mugs with Mr. García Márquez’s image, no key chains, no Macondo-themed T-shirt shops.
这个城市完全不发游客财。除了那个博物馆和一个名叫“马孔多台球厅”的台球房，这里的人几乎完全没有利用它与这位名人的联系赚钱。这里没有印着加西亚·马尔克斯肖像的马克杯、钥匙链，也没有以马孔多为主题的T恤店。
Rafael Jiménez, a local poet who helped start the museum, wants to create a “Gabo Trail,” in honor of the writer nicknamed “Gabo,” that would guide tourists to landmarks that figured in his life and work. But so far that is just a dream. His worry is that the town’s important sights and what is left of its original character are fast being obliterated.
拉斐尔·希门尼斯(Rafael Jiménez)是当地的一个诗人，他帮助开设了那个博物馆，他想设立一个“加博路线”，以纪念这位昵称叫“加博”(Gabo)的作家，那条线将引导游客前往这位作家生活和工作中的标志性地点。但是到目前为止，那只是一个梦。他担心这个小城重要的景观和原始特征中剩下的东西将很快被毁掉。
The old wooden houses, made of wide cedar planks, with large rooms, high ceilings and steeply pitched roofs designed to ward off the heat, are fast disappearing, mostly replaced by the low cement block homes that are standard throughout the region. He pointed to a corner where a large wood house was knocked down to make way for an air-conditioned billiard hall and bar.
从前的老木房子是用宽雪松板做的，房间很大，天花板很高，斜屋顶很陡，为的是抵挡阳光。这种房子正在快速消失，大部分被低矮的水泥砖房取代，水泥砖房正成为这个地区的标准房屋。他指着一个角落，那里的大木房子被推倒，要建一个装空调的台球厅和酒吧。
“No one is taking care of the cultural landscape,” Mr. Jiménez said. “In time, we’re going to end up looking like any other town.”
“没人注意保护文化景观，”希门尼斯说，“用不了多久，我们就变得跟其他小城没什么两样。”
Yet some of its uniqueness remains.
但是它的某些独特之处仍然存在。
María D’Conti, 96, lives in a creaky green-painted wood house that was built the year before she was born. According to Mr. Jiménez, Ms. D’Conti’s father, Antonio D’Conti, was an inspiration for one of the characters in “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” the dandyish Italian piano installer, Pietro Crespi.
96岁的玛丽亚·德康蒂(María D’Conti)住在一个老朽的绿色木房子里，房子是在她出生之前一年修建的。据希门尼斯说，德康蒂的父亲安东尼奥·德康蒂(Antonio D’Conti)是《百年孤独》中一个人物的原型——时髦的意大利钢琴技师皮埃特罗·克雷斯皮(Pietro Crespi)。
Ms. D’Conti remembered Mr. García Márquez, whom she called Gabito, playing with other children in the plaza in front of her family’s house.
德康蒂还记得加西亚·马尔克斯——她称他为加比托(Gabito)——和其他孩子在她家房子前面的广场上玩耍。
“He was cute,” she said, recalling how he and other children would stand under the chutes of water gushing off buildings during rain storms. As she spoke, a woman gave her a pedicure and painted her toenails a glittery pink. On a back patio, the songbirds she raises fluttered in their cages.
“他很可爱，”她说。她回忆说他和其他孩子们暴雨天站在从房顶上涌出的水柱下面。她说话的时候，一个女人在给她修脚，把她的脚趾甲涂成闪亮的粉色。在后面的露台上，她养的黄莺在鸟笼里扇动着翅膀。
Her father owned two cinemas, banana plantations and a cattle ranch, she said. The family was rich back then and so was Aracataca.
她说父亲曾经拥有两家电影院、几个香蕉园和一个畜牧场。那时候这个家庭挺富有的，阿拉卡塔卡也挺富有的。
Gnarled fingers showed a sepia photograph of her father, a dapper man with a wide tie, high collar, impeccably pressed trousers and neatly combed hair. But while she was aware of the family’s apparent connection to Mr. García Márquez’s fiction, she said she had never read any of his novels.
她用粗糙的手拿出父亲的一张发黄的照片，照片上的男人衣冠楚楚——宽领结，高衣领，熨烫平整的裤子，梳得很整齐的头发。但是当她得知自己的家族与加西亚·马尔克斯的小说有明显的联系时，她说她从没读过他的任何小说。
“I have bad eyesight,” she said.
“我眼神不好，”她说。
Her daughter, Isabella Vidal, 60, a high school art teacher, expressed what is a regular countercurrent to the Gabo-worship here. Why had Mr. García Márquez not returned to his hometown to sponsor good works, she asked. He made lots of money as a writer, she said, and could have spent some of it paving streets or buildings health clinics.
她的女儿伊莎贝拉·维达尔(Isabella Vidal)60岁了，是个高中艺术教师，她的话里流露出对“加博崇拜”的抵触，在这里很是常见。她问，加西亚·马尔克斯为什么没有回到他的故乡资助一些有益的项目？她说，他当作家赚了很多钱，本可以花些钱铺路或者建一些卫生所。
“What did he give to Aracataca?” she said. “For me, he has done nothing.”
“他给了阿拉卡塔卡什么？”她说，“在我看来，他什么也没做。”
From his beginnings, living along the dirt streets here, Mr. García Márquez went on to have a worldwide impact, though his literary influence was especially strong in Latin America.
加西亚·马尔克斯出身于这座小镇肮脏的街道，后来对全世界产生了影响，不过他对拉美文学的影响尤其强大。
Héctor Abad, a Colombian novelist from a younger generation, said that there was a downside to the long shadow cast by Mr. García Márquez’s genius. His magical realist style was poorly imitated by many, he said, in touristy novels portraying a clichéd version of Latin America.
埃克托尔·阿瓦德(Héctor Abad)是比马尔克斯晚几代的哥伦比亚小说家。他说加西亚·马尔克斯的天分投下了长长的阴影，这有消极的一面。他说，马尔克斯的魔幻现实主义风格被很多人拙劣地模仿，在那种猎奇者喜欢的小说中描绘了一个陈腐的拉美形象。
“I think that García Márquez was very great but the worst that he left was his influence,” Mr. Abad said. “The important thing was his example as writer and a person, showing us that we could write without fear anything we wanted, with great freedom.”
“我觉得加西亚·马尔克斯非常伟大，但是他留下的最糟糕的东西是他的影响力，”阿瓦德说，“重要的是作为一个作家和一个人，他树立了一个榜样，向我们展示出我们可以自由地、无所畏惧地写任何我们想写的东西。”
In one essential way, Aracataca still resembles the Macondo of “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” which in the book becomes a metaphor for the human struggle to overcome isolation.
在一个很重要的方面，阿拉卡塔卡仍与《百年孤独》中的马孔多很相似，在书中，马孔多代表着人类企图摆脱孤立状态的各种努力。
Macondo in its early years was completely cut off, a town lost in the jungle, and its founder, José Arcadio Buendía, obsessed with finding a connection to the rest of the world.
马孔多早年完全与世隔绝，是一个迷失在丛林中的小镇，它的创始人何塞·阿卡蒂奥·布恩迪亚(José Arcadio Buendía)执迷于寻找与外部世界的某种联系。
Even today, in a world of cellphones, satellite televisions and fast cars, the residents here chafe at the idea of living far from the center of things.
即使在今天，在手机、卫星电视和快速汽车的世界里，这里的居民仍为自己远离世界的中心而恼怒。
“Aracataca was an old, forgotten town,” said Elena Romero, 33, a housewife, relaxing in the shade on a park bench. “Because Gabriel García Márquez won the Nobel Prize, Aracataca is known throughout the world.”
“阿拉卡塔卡是个古老的、被遗忘的小镇，”33岁的家庭主妇埃琳娜·罗梅罗(Elena Romero)说。她在公园长椅的树荫下休息。“因为加夫列尔·加西亚·马尔克斯获得了诺贝尔奖，阿拉卡塔卡变得举世闻名。”
Jorge Polo, 54, a merchant and palm oil farmer who met Mr. García Márquez on a few of his visits here, said, “We gave him his nationality, and he gave us recognition. We thank him for the happiness of having been born in Aracataca.”
54岁的豪尔赫·波洛(Jorge Polo)是个商人、生产棕榈油的农夫。加西亚·马尔克斯有几次来这里访问时，波洛曾见过他。波洛说，“我们给了他国籍，他给了我们知名度。我们感谢他让我们以出生在阿拉卡塔卡为荣。”