One of the first things we learned about Omar Mateen, the gunman in the nightclub massacre in Orlando, Florida, was that his ex-wife said he had beaten her severely until she left him in 2009.
关于佛罗里达奥兰多夜店屠杀事件中的枪击者奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)，我们最初所了解的几件事中，就包括他前妻的说法：她曾经遭受严重的家暴，直至2009年两人分手。
If it sounds familiar that a gunman in a mass shooting would have a history of domestic violence, it should.
大规模枪击事件中的行凶者通常有家暴史，这是一种耳熟能详的说法，事实也的确如此。
In February, Cedric Ford shot 17 people at his Kansas workplace, killing three, only 90 minutes after being served with a restraining order sought by his ex-girlfriend, who said he had abused her. And Man Haron Monis, who holed up with hostages for 17 hours at a cafe in Sydney, Australia, in 2014 — an episode that left two people dead and four wounded — had terrorized his ex-wife. He had threatened to harm her if she left him, and was eventually charged with organizing her murder.
今年2月，堪萨斯州的锡德里克·福特(Cedric Ford)在自己工作的地方开枪击中17人，其中三人丧生，而90分钟前，他刚刚收到前女友针对他申请的禁制令，她称福特虐待她。2014年，曼·哈伦·莫尼斯(Man Haron Monis)在澳大利亚悉尼一家咖啡馆扣押人质长达17小时，导致两人死亡，四人受伤，他也曾经恐吓过自己的前妻。他威胁说，如果前妻离开自己，他就会伤害她，最终他因为策划谋杀她而遭到起诉。
When Everytown for Gun Safety, a gun control group, analyzed FBI data on mass shootings from 2009 to 2015, it found that 57 percent of the cases included a spouse, former spouse or other family member among the victims — and that 16 percent of the attackers had previously been charged with domestic violence.
控枪组织Everytown for Gun Safety对FBI从2009年到2015年关于大规模枪击案的数据进行了分析，发现在57%的案例中，受害者包括了行凶者的配偶、前配偶或其他家庭成员，还有16%的案例中，行凶者曾经因家庭暴力遭到起诉。
Social scientists have not settled on an explanation for this correlation, but their research reveals striking parallels between the factors that drive the two phenomena.
社会科学家尚未对此项相关性做出解析，但他们的研究揭示出，家庭暴力与大规模枪击的成因之间有极高的的相似性。
There are, of course, a tangle of factors behind every murder, especially terrorism inspired by foreign groups. But research on domestic violence hints at a question that often arises from seemingly inexplicable events like Mateen’s massacre of 49 people at an Orlando nightclub — what drives individuals to commit such mass attacks? — and sheds light on the psychology of violence.
当然，每一起谋杀事件之后都有着复杂的成因，特别是由外国组织煽动的恐怖主义事件。但是对家庭暴力的研究揭示出这样一个问题，它通常在马廷在奥兰多夜店屠杀49人这类那些看似无法解释的事件中出现——个体做出大规模攻击事件背后的驱动力是什么？这个问题有助于人们了解暴力的心理学。
‘Intimate Terrorism’
“亲密恐怖主义”
Domestic violence often follows a pattern in which an abuser seeks to control every aspect of a victim’s life. The scope and intent of this are hinted at in one name experts use for it: “intimate terrorism.”
家庭暴力经常遵循这样一种模式：虐待者谋求控制受害者生活中的方方面面。专家们称之为“亲密恐怖主义”，从中不难看出这种控制的范畴与内容。
“The perpetrator is engaging in a general pattern of control over the victim — her finances, her social contacts, the clothes she wears,” said Deborah Epstein, who runs Georgetown University Law Center’s domestic violence clinic.
“施害者对受害者施行一种普遍的控制模式，力图控制她的钱，她的社会交往，乃至她的穿着打扮，”乔治城大学(Georgetown University)法律中心家庭暴力诊所的负责人黛博拉·爱泼斯坦(Deborah Epstein)说。
Violence is the perpetrator’s means of enforcing that control — and of punishing any attempts to break it.
暴力是施害者施行控制的方法之一，也是对受害者试图摆脱控制的惩罚手段。
Mateen’s brief marriage to Sitora Yusufiy seems to fit this model. She has said that he forced her to hand over her paychecks to him, forbade her to leave the house except to go to work, and prevented her from contacting her parents. Even small perceived infractions were met with a violent response.
马廷与西托拉·优素菲(Sitora Yusufiy)的短暂婚姻似乎正符合这个模式。她说马廷曾经逼迫她把自己的薪水交给他，除非上班，否则禁止她离开家，还阻止她与父母联系。如果马廷认为她违背了禁令，哪怕极为轻微，都会向她施以暴力。
“He would just come home and start beating me up because the laundry wasn’t finished or something like that,” Yusufiy told The Washington Post.
“他回到家里就打我，只因为我没洗完衣服之类的事情，”优素菲在接受《华盛顿邮报》采访时说。
Take this dynamic of coercive violence to its most horrible extreme, and it looks an awful lot like how the Islamic State treats women in its self-proclaimed caliphate. As my Times colleague Rukmini Callimachi has reported, the group has created a vast infrastructure of rape and slavery in which women are held captive and bought and sold by its fighters. It is intimate violence on an industrial scale.
这种强制暴力发展到最恐怖的极致，似乎就很像伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在其自称的哈里发国(caliphate)中对待女人的方式。据我在《纽约时报》的同事鲁克米尼·卡利马基(Rukmini Callimachi)报道，这个组织制造了一个大型的强奸与奴役体系，受害女性被其战士囚禁和买卖。这种亲密暴力达到了一种产业规模。
Domestic violence, experts say, is also often a way for male abusers to impose their view of “traditional” gender roles. Epstein said such “traditions” in the United States were rooted in the idea of men having control over women.
专家称，家庭暴力通常是男性虐待者把自己对“传统”性别角色的看法强加于人的方式。爱泼斯坦说，在美国，这种“传统”深深植根在男人必须控制女人的观念之中。
“That’s our culture: It’s all about men controlling women in their lives,” she said. “Intimate terrorism stems from that desire to control.”
“这就是我们的文化，男人必须掌控女人的生活，”她说。“亲密恐怖主义就发源于这种对控制的渴望。”
This bears striking similarities to how the Islamic State presents its treatment of women as a recruiting tool, promising young men abroad — particularly in Europe — that its caliphate will allow them to restore “traditional” gender norms of male dominance. This dominance is exercised in part through violence including systematic rape and the threat of rape. The group often presents this violence as a means to measure and protect men’s honor.
这又与伊斯兰国对待女人的方式相吻合，他们以女人作为招募新人的工具，向海外（特别是欧洲）的年轻男人承诺，他们的哈里发国会恢复“传统”性别规范中男性的支配地位。这种支配地位部分是通过暴力来实现的，包括系统的强奸和强奸威胁。伊斯兰国经常把这种暴力当做一种衡量与保护男性荣誉的方式。
It seems natural, then, that the Islamic State might appeal to men who desire that sort of control over the women in their lives, separate from any ideological draw — the kind of men who might have domestic violence in their past.
因此，除去意识形态方面的吸引力，伊斯兰国自然对那些希望控制女人生活的男人们格外有吸引力，而这样的男人过去是可能有家暴经历的。
Nimmi Gowrinathan, a visiting professor at the City College of New York who studies women’s roles in insurgent and terrorist conflicts, said that restrictive norms about gender and sexuality could be a “pull” factor for terrorist organizations — but that people who are drawn to them are also often “pushed” by their own pre-existing attitudes or desires.
纽约市立大学(City College of New York)的访问教授尼米·高里纳森(Nimmi Gowrinathan)专门研究妇女在暴动与恐怖主义冲突中的角色，他说关于性别与性取向的限制性规范可以成为恐怖主义组织中的一个“推动性”因素，但是受他们吸引的人也通常受到自身早已形成的态度或欲望所“推动”。
Personal and Global Grievances
个人与全球的不幸处境
Terrorist attacks and mass shootings garner attention and frighten the public much more than episodes of domestic violence. But domestic violence has a much higher death toll in the United States.
恐怖袭击与大规模枪击远比零星的家庭暴力事件更能获得大众的关注，并且更能引发公众的恐惧。但是在美国，家庭暴力导致的死亡率远比恐怖袭击高。
According to the Violence Policy Center, 895 women in the United States were murdered by their current or former intimate partners in 2013 (and this does not include those killed amid mass shootings). That single-year tally is more than nine times the 92 people the New American Foundation has counted as killed in jihadi attacks on U.S. soil in the past decade.
根据暴力政策中心(Violence Policy Center)公布的数据，2013年，有895名女人被现任或前任亲密伴侣杀死（其中不包括在大规模枪击事件中遇害的情况）。根据新美国基金会(New American Foundation)统计，过去十年里，在美国本土，有92人死于同圣战分子有关的袭击，换言之，仅仅在2013年一年里，死于家庭暴力者的数字就高出这个数字九倍之多。
But there are striking parallels between the intimate terrorism of domestic violence and the mass terrorism perpetrated by lone-wolf attackers like Mateen seems to have been. Both, at their most basic level, are attempts to provoke fear and assert control.
但是家庭暴力中的亲密恐怖主义与马廷这种孤狼袭击者带来的大规模恐怖主义似乎存在惊人的相似之处。二者在最基本的层面都是旨在引发恐惧，主张自己的控制权。
Domestic violence, experts say, often occurs when an abuser concludes that violence is the best tool to solve his or her grievances. That might mean a husband who perceives his wife’s failure to do the laundry as a challenge to his rightful authority, leading him to try to reimpose his will through violence.
专家称，当虐待者认为暴力是解决自己不幸处境的最佳工具时，家庭暴力往往随之发生。这可能意味着，丈夫把妻子没有洗好衣服视为对自己权威的挑战，因而诱发他再度通过暴力来实现自己的意志。
Clark McCauley, a professor at Bryn Mawr College who studies the psychology of mass violence and terrorism, said he was not aware of research finding a causal relationship between domestic violence and terrorism. But he has found that a characteristic common to mass killers is a sense of grievance: a belief that someone, somewhere, had wronged them in a way that merited a violent response.
布林莫尔学院(Bryn Mawr College)研究大规模暴力与恐怖主义心理学的教授克拉克·麦考利(Clark McCauley)说，他不知道是否有研究表明发现家庭暴力和恐怖主义之间存在因果关系。但他发现，大规模杀人凶手中往往存在一种典型的共同之处——有怨气，认为某个人或某个地方错待了他们，因而他们做出暴力的回应是正当的。
Gender Norms, Gender Panic
性别规范，性别恐慌
A domestic abuser’s desire to impose, by force, supposed traditional gender roles also sometimes includes sexuality. Such abusers, experts say, may see homosexuality as a threat to their masculinity.
家庭暴力的施害者喜欢把传统性别角色强制施加于人，有时也包括传统性取向。专家称，有些施害者认为同性恋是对他们的男子气概的一种威胁。
“There is an idea that what it means to be masculine is to be vigilant of your sexuality, and hypervigilant towards keeping anyone from perceiving you as gay,” said Gillian Chadwick, a fellow at Georgetown University Law Center.
“有种观点认为，有男子气概就是要对自己的性取向保持警惕，要非常当心，不让任何人认为你是男同性恋，”乔治城大学法律中心的吉莉安·查德维克(Gillian Chadwick)说。
Intimate terrorism, in that sense, rests on a broader spectrum of violence meant to preserve the traditional dominance of heterosexual men, and coerce those who are perceived as threatening that order. That spectrum, at the extreme end, includes mass shootings.
在这种意义上，亲密恐怖主义依赖于一种更为广义的暴力，它旨在保持异性恋男性传统的支配地位，并把这种秩序强加给那些被视为威胁的人。这种广义暴力的极端形式就包括大规模枪击。
This connection makes it somewhat easier to understand an apparent contradiction: that Mateen targeted a gay nightclub and that his father and ex-wife have said he had a history of homophobic remarks, but that he also had been seen visiting Pulse, the gay nightclub he targeted, and, according to some news reports, used a gay dating app.
这种联系有助于我们理解一个看似矛盾的事实；马廷选择一家同性恋夜店作为攻击目标，他的父亲与前妻都说他曾经发表恐同言论，但是根据一些新闻报道，有人目睹他光顾他所袭击的这家夜店Pulse，而且还使用一款同性恋约会手机应用。
Could Mateen have been trying to use violence to reimpose rules about gender and sexuality that he himself was troubled about violating? If so, he would not be the first.
马廷是否违背了性别与性取向的传统规则，因而才试图使用暴力来恢复这种准则？如果是这样，他并不是第一个这么做的人。
Chadwick said there was an entire category of legal argument, called “gay panic” and “trans panic” claims, in which defendants say that they turned to violence because they were so upset about being perceived as gay, or about discovering they were attracted to a transgender person.
查德威克说，在法律上，有一个类别就叫做“同性恋恐慌”与“跨性别恐慌”主张——在这种情况下，被告称， 他们被视为同性恋，或者发现跨性别者对自己感兴趣，因此感到不安，所以才会采取暴力行为。