David Adler accepts the trade-offs of being married to an interior designer. For the pleasure of living in beautifully decorated homes, he cedes nearly all creative control to his wife, Amie Weitzman, a principal of the Manhattan firm Weitzman Halpern.
和室内设计师结婚是有代价的。对此，戴维·阿德勒(David Adler)处之泰然。为了享受居住美宅的惬意，他几乎把所有发挥创造性的权力都让给了妻子——曼哈顿一家设计公司Weitzman Halpern的高管阿米·韦茨曼(Amie Weitzman)。
He has also learned not to make an issue of certain things. Like closet space.
他还学会了不要为某些事情较真，比如衣柜的空间问题。
In the five-story 1905 brownstone the couple recently gut-renovated on the Upper West Side, his clothes closet wound up in the master bathroom, of all places. That way, Ms. Weitzman explained, he won’t wake her when he leaves so ridiculously early in the morning for the offices of Paragon Capital Partners, the small hedge fund he runs.
夫妇俩现居于上西区的一座建于1905年的五层褐石公寓里，他们最近对房子进行了彻底装修。阿德勒的衣柜被清理到了让人意想不到的地方——主浴室。韦茨曼解释道，这样一来，阿德勒早上起床后就不会把她吵醒了。阿德勒离家上班的时间早得离谱，他运营着一家名叫Paragon Capital Partners的小型对冲基金公司。
Her closet, on the other hand, is in the bedroom, where it takes up an entire wall, from the floor to the 10-foot ceiling. Ms. Weitzman, 55, smiled and shrugged; no apologies there.
而另一边，韦茨曼的衣柜则设在卧室里，占据了一整面墙，从地板一直延伸到了10英尺（约合3米）高的天花板。说到这个问题时，现年55岁的韦茨曼笑着耸了耸肩；她对此完全没有歉意。
But there is one thing that Mr. Adler, 51, and the couple’s children, Maya, 16, and Jonah, 18, refuse to compromise on. No matter how good a chair or sofa looks, if it isn’t comfortable, it has to go. The three-headed furniture review board recently fired two stiff chairs.
不过有件事，是51岁的阿德勒和两个孩子——16岁的玛雅(Maya)和18岁的乔纳(Jonah)无法妥协的。不管椅子或沙发设计得多好看，只要坐着不舒服，就不能要。这个由三名家庭成员组成的“家具审查委员会”最近就淘汰了两张硬椅子。
“In our house, my mom is looking out for how it is designed,” said Ms. Adler, a sophomore at Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn. “Me, my dad and my brother, we like what’s comfortable. My mom’s always saying: ‘Guys, it’s my job. You just have to let me do this.’ ”
“在我们家里，我妈关心的是设计，”在布鲁克林帕克中学学院(Packer Collegiate Institute)上二年级的玛雅说，“我爸、我还有我哥都比较关心舒适。我妈总是说：‘伙计们，这是我的工作。你们就得交给我来做。’”
But letting Ms. Weitzman have her way isn’t such a sacrifice, Ms. Adler conceded. Not when you consider the results — in her case, the very grown-up all-white bedroom that was a recent gift from her mother for her 16th birthday.
不过，玛雅承认，让韦茨曼按照自己的风格行事，也并不是那么大的牺牲。至少结果是好的。以她的情况为例，最近她收到了母亲的16岁生日礼物——一间风格非常成人化的全白卧室。
“I must admit,” Ms. Adler said, “she was open to what I had to say.”
“我必须承认，”玛雅说，“她挺愿意听我的意见的。”
For his part, Mr. Adler asks only that he have control of all the electronic and technical systems, and that he be in on the really big decisions.
对阿德勒来说，他的要求只有一个，那就是所有电子和技术系统得由他控制，真正重大的决定得由他来做。
When they were considering installing a two-story glass wall looking out onto the backyard from the eating area on the ground floor and the living room above, she told him, “O.K., honey, you decide.” (He decided in favor.) Marriage, like business, is a negotiation, and in his 21 years with Ms. Weitzman, Mr. Adler has usually held his own. The relocation debate, for example, went his way as well.
他们曾经考虑建一座两层楼高的玻璃墙，这样就可从一楼的用餐区和楼上的起居室看到后院。当时，韦茨曼对阿德勒说，“好吧，亲爱的，你来决定。”（阿德勒决定建墙）经营婚姻就好比经营企业，是一个谈判的过程。阿德勒和韦茨曼结婚21年了，他一般都能保持上风。比方说，搬家之争也是按照他的意愿解决的。
Ten years ago, the family was living in a two-bedroom apartment on Riverside Drive that Ms. Weitzman had redesigned twice, but still they found themselves longing for more space, particularly a third bedroom and a real backyard.
十年前，一家人住在河滨大道(Riverside Drive)上的一套两室公寓里，韦茨曼将这套房子重新设计了两次，但是他们依然觉得空间不够大，他们尤其希望能够再多一间卧室，而且还要有一座真正的后院。
She was lobbying for the suburbs and began scouting homes in areas like Montclair, N.J.; Old Greenwich, Conn.; and Larchmont, N.Y. But Mr. Adler, who grew up in western Canada, had no intention of leaving his adopted city. So he power searched and found a single-family house for $3.8 million, making sure, of course, that it needed plenty of work.
韦茨曼试图说服一家人搬到郊区，并且开始在新泽西州的蒙特克莱尔(Montclair)、康涅狄格州的旧格林威治(Old Greenwich)、纽约州的拉奇蒙特(Larchmont)等地物色房源。但是，在加拿大西部长大的阿德勒不打算离开他的第二故乡。因此，他通过高级搜索，找到了一栋单户公寓，价格380万美元（约合人民币2371万元）。当然了，这套房子需要进行大规模的装修。
“Amie is happiest when she has a big project going,” he said. “She’s the one with all the ideas, sprinkling her magic fairy dust everywhere.”
“只要手头有大项目，阿米就最高兴了，”他说，“她是那种有很多点子的人，喜欢挥舞着她的魔法棒，到处播撒奇迹。”