NEW BRAUNFELS, Texas — He beat his wife, cracked his toddler stepson’s skull and was kicked out of the military. He drove away friends, drew attention from police and abused his dog. Before Devin P. Kelley entered a rural Texas church with a military-style rifle, killing at least 26 people Sunday, he led a deeply troubled life in which few in his path escaped unscathed.
德克萨斯州新布朗费尔斯——他殴打妻子，蹒跚学步的继子被他打裂了头骨，军队开除了他。他赶走了身边的朋友，吸引了警察的注意，还虐待自己的狗。周日，德文·P·凯利(Devin P. Kelley)拿着一支类军用步枪，走进德克萨斯州一个乡村教堂，至少杀死了26人。在那之前，他过着极度混乱的生活，和他有交集的人无不深受其害。
In 2012, while stationed at Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico, Kelley was charged with assault, according to Air Force records, which said he had repeatedly struck, kicked and choked his first wife beginning just months into their marriage, and hit his stepson’s head with what the Air Force described as “a force likely to produce death or grievous bodily harm.”
根据空军记录，2012年，凯利在新墨西哥州霍洛曼空军基地(Holloman Air Force Base)服役期间，曾因攻击行为遭到指控。空军记录还表明，在与第一任妻子结婚仅数月后，他就开始多次殴打、脚踹妻子，掐她的脖子；空军称他对继子头部造成的伤害“足以导致死亡或严重身体伤害”。
“He assaulted his stepson severely enough that he fractured his skull,” said Don Christensen, a retired colonel who was the chief prosecutor for the Air Force. “He pled to intentionally doing it.”
“他对继子下手很重，导致他头骨骨折，”曾任空军首席检察官的退役上校堂·克里斯滕森(Don Christensen)说。“他承认自己是故意的。”
Prosecutors withdrew several other charges as part of their plea agreement with Kelley, including allegations that he repeatedly pointed a loaded gun at his wife.
作为与凯利达成的认罪协议的一部分，检察官们撤销了其他几项指控，包括指控他曾多次用实弹枪支对准妻子。
He was ultimately sentenced in November of that year to 12 months’ confinement and reduction to the lowest possible rank. His final duty title was “prisoner.”
当年11月，他最终被判禁闭12个月，被降至最低军衔。他的最后一个正式头衔是“囚犯”。
His first wife, Tessa Kelley, divorced him while he was confined, and was awarded the couple’s only four household items of value: a television, an Xbox, a wedding ring and a revolver.
禁闭期间，他的第一任妻子特莎·凯利(Tessa Kelley)与他离婚，得到了两人家中仅有的四件值钱物品：一台电视机、一台Xbox游戏机、一枚结婚戒指和一把左轮手枪。
After his confinement, Devin Kelley was forced out of the military with a bad conduct discharge. The Air Force said the conviction should have barred Kelley from owning any guns. Instead, law enforcement officials say, he bought several.
禁闭结束后，德文·凯利因行为恶劣被开除军籍。美国空军称这一定罪理应禁止凯利持有任何枪支。然而据执法官员称他买了数件枪支。
Friends from New Braunfels, Texas, where he went to high school, expressed shock in the aftermath of the shooting, remembering how Kelley was a friendly, if awkward, teenager who grew up active in his church. His senior yearbook photo shows him smiling, with untamed hair and a Hollister T-shirt. But in recent years, friends said, he grew so dark that many unfriended him on Facebook.
凯利曾在德克萨斯州新布朗费尔斯上高中，他在那里的朋友们在枪击事件发生后表示震惊，他们记得凯利高中时很友好的年轻人，略显局促，从小积极去教堂。在高三的年鉴照片中，他微笑着，头发凌乱，穿着一件Hollister的T恤。不过朋友们说，近些年，他变得非常阴沉，很多朋友在Facebook上取消了对他的关注。
“I had always known there was something off about him. But he wasn’t always a ‘psychopath’,” a longtime friend, Courtney Kleiber, posted on Facebook on Sunday. “We had a lot of good times together. Over the years we all saw him change into something that he wasn’t. To be completely honest, I’m really not surprised this happened, and I don’t think anyone who knew him is very surprised either.”
“我一直知道他有点不对劲。但他并不总是一个‘精神变态’，”凯利的老朋友考特尼·克莱伯(Courtney Kleiber)周日在Facebook上写道。“我们在一起度过了许多美好时光。这些年，我们都看到他变得跟从前不一样了。非常坦白地说，发生这种事，我并不吃惊，我觉得任何认识他的人都不会吃惊。”
Instead of straightening out after his bad conduct discharge, Kelley began a long downward slide that culminated in the shooting Sunday.
在因表现恶劣而被开除军籍后，凯利没有改邪归正，而是开始一直往下落，在周日的枪击案中跌到了谷底。
After getting out of confinement, Kelly moved into a barn at his parents’ house, which they had converted into an apartment, according to the local sheriff’s office records.
当地治安官办公室的记录显示，出狱后，凯利搬进了他父母家的一个谷仓——他们把它改造成了一个公寓。
During the next two years, he was investigated twice for abusing women. Authorities in Comal County, which includes Kelley’s hometown New Braunfels, released records Monday that showed he had been the subject of an investigation for sexual assault and rape in 2013.
在之后的两年里，他因虐待女性而被调查过两次。根据凯利家乡新布朗费尔斯所属的科马尔县当局周一公布的记录，2013年，凯利曾因性侵和强奸而接受调查。
The investigation ended without the filing of any charges — Kelley’s only skirmishes in the local courts were traffic violations.
调查最终没有得出任何指控——凯利在当地唯一一次闹上法庭是因为违反交通规则。
Less than a year after the sexual assault report, deputies were summoned again after Kelley’s girlfriend at the time, Danielle Shields, reportedly sent a text message to a friend saying she was being abused. Deputies who responded told a dispatcher, according to the report, that it was a “misunderstanding and teenage drama.” Kelley married Shields two months later, local records show.
在那次性侵报告不到一年后，县副治安官再次接到报案，据说凯利当时的女友丹妮尔·希尔兹(Danielle Shields)给一位朋友发短信称她遭到了虐待。据该报告称，前去调查的副治安官对一名调度员称，那是一场“误会和青少年的胡闹”。当地记录显示，两个月后，凯利和希尔兹结婚了。
At the time of both episodes, Kelley’s appeals were still pending before military courts.
这两个事件发生时，军事法庭仍在审理凯利的上诉案。
Kelley was finally discharged from the Air Force in 2014. He married Shields in April of that year. Law enforcement officials described their relationship this week as “estranged.”
2014年，凯利最终被空军开除。当年4月，他跟希尔兹结婚了。本周，执法官员们称他们的关系“疏远”。
A few months after the wedding, the couple moved to Colorado Springs, where voter registration documents list his address as parking space 60 at a collection of trailers in a gravel lot called the Fountain Creek RV Park.
结婚数月后，这对夫妇搬到了科罗拉多斯普林斯。根据当地的选民登记文件，他住在一个名为“喷泉溪房车公园”(Fountain Creek RV Park)的碎石房车停车场的60号停车位。
While in Colorado and Texas, Kelley purchased a number of guns at gun stores, according to law enforcement officials. On Monday, the Air Force admitted that it had failed to enter information from Kelley’s domestic violence court-martial into a federal database that could have blocked him from buying the weapon used in the church attack.
据执法官员们称，凯利在科罗拉多州和德克萨斯州的多家枪支商店买了一些枪。周一，空军承认它未将凯利在家庭暴力军事法庭上的信息录入联邦数据库，那本可以阻止他购买在教堂袭击中使用的武器。
Kelley, whose father, Michael Kelley, is a computer programmer and accountant, enlisted in the Air Force soon after graduating from New Braunfels High School in 2009. Devin Kelley served as a low-ranking airman in a logistics readiness unit. A LinkedIn account in his name says he worked in cargo and distribution before his court-martial.
凯利的父亲迈克尔·凯利(Michael Kelley)是一名电脑程序员兼会计，2009年，他从新布朗费尔斯高中(New Braunfels High School)毕业后不久就加入了空军。德文·凯利曾是一名低级别空军士兵，在一个后勤军备部门服役。一个使用他的姓名的LinkedIn账户称，在上军事法庭之前，他做过与货物和配发相关的工作。
The account says that after the military, Kelley briefly worked as an aide at a youth Bible school in Kingsville, Texas, “helping their minds grow and prosper.”
该账户称，退役后，凯利曾在德克萨斯州金斯维尔的一所青年圣经学校做助手，“帮助拓展和活跃他们的思想”。
Friends said on Facebook that in recent years, Kelley had become vocally anti-Christian, to the point where many stopped communicating with him. His Facebook page, which has been deleted, listed that he liked a number of atheist groups.
他的朋友们在Facebook上称，近些年，凯利经常发表反基督教言论，很多人都不再和他交流了。他的Facebook页面曾显示他喜欢某些无神论团体。该页面已被删除。
“He was always talking about how people who believe in God were stupid and trying to preach his atheism,” one of his Facebook friends, Nina Rosa Nava, posted on the site, saying she unfriended him because of it.
“他总是说，相信上帝的人很愚蠢，试图宣扬他的无神论，”他在Facebook上的一个朋友尼娜·罗莎·纳瓦(Nina Rosa Nava)在该网站上称。她还说，她因此取消了对他的关注。
Law enforcement stopped short of saying religious views may have influenced Kelley, saying Monday that the shooting may have been motivated by a “domestic situation” involving Kelley’s estranged wife and her family.
执法部门没说宗教观点可能对凯利产生了影响，只是在周一表示，这起枪击事件可能是因“家庭问题”引发的，与他分居的妻子及其家人有关。
Kelley never held jobs for long after the military. In June of this year, Kelley was hired as an unarmed night security guard at Schlitterbahn, a vast water park in New Braunfels. Less than six weeks later he was “terminated,” a spokeswoman for the park, Winter D. Prosapio, said Monday, adding, “He was not a good fit.”
退役后，凯利没有一份工作做得长久。今年6月，凯利在新布朗费尔斯的大型水上公园施利特班(Schlitterbahn)担任不配武器的夜间保安。该公园的发言人温特·D·普罗萨普(Winter D. Prosapio)周一称，不到六周后，他就被“停职”了，说“他不太合适”。
By 2017, he had returned to a house in New Braunfels that records show was owned by his parents. The house was about an hour from the church where the shooting occurred. According to local law enforcement, Kelley’s second wife at times attended the church with members of her extended family.
2017年，他搬回新布朗费尔斯的一所房子里居住，记录显示，那所房子归他父母所有。那所房子距离发生枪击的那座教堂大约一个小时路程。据当地执法部门称，凯利的第二任妻子有时会和她的大家庭成员一起去那座教堂。