“I was the last person people thought would stay in their hometown for college,” said Laura Johnson, a senior at Macalester College who lives in a house a half-hour walk from her home in St. Paul. “Even my parents wondered why I wasn’t going away.”
“在人们眼里，我是最后一个留在老家上大学的人，”劳拉·约翰逊(Laura Johnson)说，她是玛卡莱斯特学院(Macalester College)的大四学生，如今从她圣保罗的家走半小时路就能到她的宿舍。“就连我的父母当年都好奇，为什么我不离开这里呢。”
Her mother, Maggie Wirth-Johnson, acknowledged her puzzlement, as Laura’s choices included Stanford, Barnard and the University of California at Berkeley.
鉴于可供劳拉选择的大学包括了斯坦福大学(Stanford)、巴纳德学院(Barnard)以及加州大学伯克利分校(University of California at Berkeley)，这让她的母亲玛吉·沃思-约翰逊(Maggie Wirth-Johnson)百思不得其解。
“But then I wondered why going away to college has become such a big deal,” Ms. Wirth-Johnson said, adding, “I really liked Laura’s reasons for choosing Macalester. It was the right place for her even if it was incredibly close by.”
“不过后来我又想，为什么去外地上大学就非得是件了不得的大事呢，”沃思-约翰逊补充道，“我真的很喜欢劳拉选择玛卡莱斯特学院的理由。对她来说，它是对的去处，哪怕它离家极其近。”
According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, colleges not far from home are increasingly becoming the first choice of many students. Twenty percent of the respondents of this year’s freshman survey of full-time, four-year degree students said that being close to home was a very important factor in their college choice, continuing a slight upward trend that began four decades ago. (The figure was 16 percent in 1983.)
据《高等教育纪事报》(The Chronicle of Higher Education)，对许多学生来说，离家较近的大学日益成为首选。在今年接受访问的全日制四年制大一新生中，有20%的受访者说，离家近是他们在选择学校时一个非常重要的因素，这个在30年前开始的趋向如今又有了小小的提升（在1983年，这个数据为16%）。
Be it economic (the lure of in-state tuition or lower transportation costs), psychological (not far from one’s family and comfort zone) or simple serendipity (the right school happens to be down the street), many students are appreciating the benefits of landing within propeller distance of their helicopter parents.
可能是经济因素（本州学生的优惠学费或者更低的交通成本）、心理因素（离自己的家庭与舒适区域不远）或者只是简单的机缘巧合（最合适的学校正好就在街道的另一端），很多学生都很欣赏自己离他们的“直升机家长”（helicopter parents，指对子女过分关切、总是在孩子身边盘旋的家长——译注）只有几步之遥的好处。
College students on popular TV shows are often homebodies, like John-Boy, who lived at the Walton home while attending the fictional Boatwright University; Rory Gilmore of “The Gilmore Girls,” who resided at Yale but seemed to be in Stars Hollow more than in her dorm room; and Axl Heck, from the ABC show “The Middle,” who this season will head to college a mere 45 minutes from his folks. But boundary issues can be tricky when you do not need your child home every week for plot development.
在受欢迎的电视节目中，大学生往往是离不开家的，就像家住沃顿的约翰小子（John-Boy，电视剧《沃顿一家》[The Waltons]中的小约翰·沃顿——译注），他上的是虚构的博特赖特大学；《吉尔莫女孩》(Gilmore Girls)中的罗莉·吉尔莫(Rory Gilmore)虽然上的是耶鲁大学(Yale)，但她更像是住在家所在的星谷镇，而非学校宿舍里；还有ABC的电视剧《中产家庭》(The Middle)中的阿克塞尔·赫克(Axel Heck)，他在这一季中将去一所离家只有45分钟步行距离的大学上学。但边界问题有时候也挺麻烦的，为了推动剧情发展，你其实不需要你的孩子每周都回家。
“It was hard at first because I wanted Laura to immerse herself completely on campus, but I also wanted her to come home for family birthdays,” Ms. Wirth-Johnson said.
“起初这很难，因为我想希望劳拉全身心都投入到大学校园中，不过我也希望她能在家人生日的时候能够回家，”沃思-约翰逊说。
Leslie Gardner, who lives in Brooklyn and whose daughter, Rebecca Glanzer, is a sophomore at Columbia University, echoed the same sentiment.
莱斯利·加德纳(Leslie Gardner)住在布鲁克林，她的女儿丽贝卡·格兰泽(Rebecca Glanzer)在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)读大二，她也有同样的感受。
“I worried that it would be too easy for me to access her,” she said. “But I also worried that she might access me too much.”
“我担心自己轻易去找她，”她说，“但我也担心她会轻易来找我。”
Both mothers said they waited patiently the first few weeks of college for their daughters to reach out to them.
两位母亲都表示，在大学生活刚开始的前几周，她们耐心等待女儿与自己联系。
“Three weeks after classes started, Rebecca finally wanted to see me,” Ms. Gardner said. “She asked me to meet her for lunch in midtown conveniently next to the J. Crew store, where she needed a few things,” she recalled, laughing.
“开学之后三星期，丽贝卡终于想和我见面了，”加德纳说，“她让我和她在中城的J. Crew店铺旁见面，一起吃午饭，她要去那家店买些东西，在那儿见会比较方便，”她笑着回忆道。
Ms. Wirth-Johnson remembered Laura not coming home until Halloween, but then, unexpectedly, she began bumping into her at the Whole Foods store. “I always felt obligated to buy her groceries,” she said.
沃思-约翰逊记得劳拉直到万圣节时才回的家，不过当时，她经常在健康食品超市(Whole Foods)与女儿不期而遇，“我总是觉得自己有义务为她买的东西付钱，”她说。
For Scotti Parrish, an associate professor of English at the University of Michigan, avoiding her two oldest children, Xander Judge, now a senior at Michigan, and Grace Judge, a sophomore at the university, was easier than she imagined.
对密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的英国文学副教授斯科蒂·帕里什(Scotti Parrish)来说，避开她孩子中年纪最大的两个，在本校分别读大四的赞德·贾奇和读大二的格雷斯·贾奇，比她想象中要简单多了。
“Xander deliberately requested to live on North Campus as far away from our house as was physically possible,” she said. “And I went on sabbatical last year.” What’s more, Dr. Parrish knew better than to venture downtown on certain days.
“赞德特地要求住在北校区，尽可能与我们家距离最远，”她说，“而我自己去年也轮休了一年。”除此之外，帕里什博士也清楚，在某些特定的日子，自己最好别去市中心闲逛。
“I stay home, for instance, on St. Patrick’s Day,” she said. “I don’t want to see my students vomiting in an alley.”
“比如说在圣帕特里克节，我就待在家里，”她说，“我不想看到我的学生在巷角呕吐。”
But it is not just parents who want to avoid that confrontation.
但想要避免狭路相逢的，不仅是家长们。
“Lately, it has been getting more treacherous as my parents have started to go to some of the same bars I hit with my friends,” Laura Johnson said. “I can’t tell you how mortified I would be if they showed up when I was out on a date or drunk.”
“最近，我的父母老是在我和朋友们一起去的酒吧出现，这很让人困扰，”劳拉·约翰逊说，“当我和别人约会，或者喝醉了的时候，如果他们在酒吧里出现，我无法形容那有多丢脸。”
Others can’t help but give in to the lure of their family living quarters. “My freshman dorm was shockingly close to my parent’s home,” said Thatcher Foster, who grew up in Princeton, N.J. and is a senior at Princeton. “I have to admit I went home a lot in the beginning. I would tell my roommate I was going to the library, but then sneak off to watch a football game with my dad.”
其他人则无法抵抗家的诱惑。“我大一时的宿舍离我父母家近得不可思议，”撒切尔·福斯特(Thatcher Foster)说，他在新泽西州的普林斯顿长大，是普林斯顿大学(Princeton)的大四学生。“我得承认，一开始时我经常回家。我会和我室友说我要去图书馆，其实我是偷偷回家和爸爸一起看橄榄球比赛。”
Ms. Glanzer’s mother said she comes home often, but not to see her parents.
格兰泽的母亲说，女儿经常回家，但不是为了看父母。
“She wants to see our dog, Winston,” she said. “Half the time we are not even there. I have learned not to take it personally.”
“她想要看的是我们家的狗狗温斯顿，”她说，“有一半的时间我们甚至都不在家。不过我已经学会客观看待这件事了。”
For Anna Johnson (the twin of Laura), transferring to Macalester after spending her freshman year on the other side of the country was a challenge.
对安娜·约翰逊（Anna Johnson，劳拉的双胞胎姐妹）来说，在这个国家的另一端上完大一之后转校到玛卡莱斯特学院学习，这是一个挑战。
“It was a bit too easy for me to go home for a nap or dinner while I was still struggling to make new friends,” she explained. Now, however, she is so well adjusted she jogs by her mother at their family home.
“我不费吹灰之力就能回家打个盹或者吃晚饭，可是与此同时，我仍然在努力地想要交一些新朋友，”她解释道。但是现在她调整得很好，和母亲一起在家里悠闲地生活。
Ms. Judge of Ann Arbor, Mich., admitted it can be harder to reinvent yourself in your hometown. “I do think location has a huge impact on you,” she said, noting that living in another city this past summer gave her some needed independence. “There is a psychology of being in the same place, running into high school and family friends, that can keep you feeling similar,” she said, although she is enjoying the university despite being a “townie.”
在安娜堡的密歇根大学上学的格蕾丝·贾奇承认，很难在家乡给自己重新设定身份。“我的确认为，地点对人的影响是很大的，”她表示，在外地度过的这个夏天给了她一些必要的自主空间。“留在同一个地方，时不时碰到高中同学和亲朋好友，这有种心理作用，能让你保持熟悉感，”她说。不过除却“城里人”这个身份之外，她还是很享受大学生活的。
Clara Woolner, a sophomore at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., is about to test her cohabitation limits by moving into her parents’ home, 15 minutes from campus.
克莱拉·伍尔纳(Clara Woolner)是坐落于纽约州哈得逊河畔安南代尔的巴德学院(Bard College)的大二学生，她正欲通过搬到离学校15分钟路程的父母家中来测试自己与人同住的底线。
“It just seems silly to live in a dorm now when my house is so close,” she said, noting that in Europe and South America it is the norm for students to save money by living with family. “And the full fridge at home is not a bad thing either.”
“自己家离这么近，如果还住在宿舍里就太傻了，”她说。她指出，在欧洲和南美，学生为了省钱和家人住在一起是很常见的。“家里那个总是满满当当的冰箱也不是坏事。”
Sally Rubenstone, a senior adviser at CollegeConfidential.com, a college admissions counseling company that offers online forums on everything from financial aid to student life, said she believed communication between parent and child was key. Ms. Rubenstone advises discussing everyone’s “expectations about how much communication should take place.”
萨莉·鲁本斯通(Sally Rubenstone)是CollegeConfidential.com的高级顾问，这是一家大学招生顾问公司，在网上提供从金融援助到学生生活的各种指导。她说她相信家长与儿女之间的交流是其中关键。鲁本斯通建议讨论一下每个人“对于双方应该交流多少的期待”。
“But then parents and students have to also understand the theory and the reality might end up completely different,” she said.
“但家长和学生们也必须理解，理论与现实最终可能完全不同，”她说。
This reporter thought of Ms. Rubenstone’s words recently when my daughter Florence, a freshman at the University of Michigan, came back to our home in Ann Arbor after three weeks away. Having vacuum-packed her winter clothes into plastic storage bags so she would not have to see us, as she said, “until Thanksgiving or just because the weather gets cold,” I was secretly elated by her text message, “Sunday pancake brunch at yours?”
当我在密歇根大学读大一的女儿佛罗伦斯(Florence)在离开三个星期之后回到我们的家时，我马上想起了鲁本斯通的话。之前她走时，把她的冬装全都真空压缩起来带走了，这样就不需要回来看我们，用她的话说，“到感恩节或者天气变冷了再说。”后来收到她这条短信的时候，我自个儿偷着乐了起来——“星期天早午餐时，在你们那里一起吃煎饼？”
I was also happy to meet the two friends (both from out of state) she brought with her. Less thrilling, however, were the three loads of dirty laundry they carried into the house. When we deposited them later that afternoon with full stomachs and clean clothes, Florence bid us “goodbye” with the promising words, “See you soon,” as did her friends.
我也很高兴能见到她带回来的两位朋友（都是来自其他州的）。但没那么令人喜悦的是，她们搬进屋来的三大包需要洗的脏衣服。那天下午送走她们时，我们把她们喂饱，衣服也都洗干净了。佛罗伦斯和我们道别时承诺地说：“不久后再见。”她的朋友们也是这样说的。
Now we are wondering if we are the ones who need to move — or at least buy a second washing machine and refrigerator.
现在我们在想，如果我们是需要搬出去的一方的话——或许至少我们会买台二手的洗衣机和冰箱。