Fiyel Levent was born and raised in New York City. But her interest in Middle Eastern art and design is evident throughout her work, from small-scale pieces, like paper lanterns die-cut with motifs that call to mind Persian textiles, to larger architectural installations, like the concrete wine wall she designed for a house in Bridgehampton, N.Y., which suggests an abstract version of the sort of ornamentation you might see in Islamic architecture.
费耶尔·莱文特(Fiyel Levent)虽然出生、成长于纽约市，但她的所有作品，都明显体现出其对中东艺术与设计的兴趣。小到一些装饰品——比如按照波斯织物图形冲压成的纸艺灯笼，大到一些建筑设施——比如她为纽约州布里奇汉普顿市(Bridgehampton)的一栋房屋设计的混凝土存酒壁。那面墙，令人想起某种你可能会在伊斯兰建筑中看到的建筑装饰，只是更抽象。
It’s a longstanding interest informed by her background (Ms. Levent, 33, is of Tatar descent) and nurtured as an architecture student at Cooper Union, where she studied the fountain infrastructure of Istanbul. And it continued to grow in the years that followed, when she and her husband, Basar Girit, a partner in the design firm Situ Studio, traveled first to Andalusia, Spain, to document the architecture there, and then traced the architecture along the Northern Silk Road, from Uzbekistan to China.
这个由来已久的兴趣，首先源自于她的家庭背景（33岁的莱文特是鞑靼人的后裔[Tatar descent]），之后又作为一名建筑系学生，在柯柏联盟学院(Cooper Union)接受教育，在那里她学习了伊斯坦布尔(Istanbul)的喷泉体系与构造。其后多年，她与身为Situ Studio设计公司合伙人之一的丈夫巴萨尔·克里特(Basar Girit)，先到西班牙的安达卢西亚地区(Andalusia)，为当地建筑做了资料整理与记录，随后又沿着北部丝绸之路，从乌兹别克斯坦追踪建筑的遗迹，一路来到中国。
“The aesthetic qualities of this type of architecture can be easily translated to modern technology, because the patterns are geometric and repetitive,” she said, explaining the influence on her own design.
“这种类型的建筑，其美感特质很容易被转换成现代技术，因为这些图案都是几何形状的，且具有重复性，”她解释着自己设计工作所受的影响。
“All my work has some kind of pattern on it,” she said. “I like to play with light and pattern, and layer them to different effect.”
“我所有的设计作品上面都带有某种纹样，”她说，“我喜欢运用光线与图形，并通过层次，将它们搭配出不同的效果。”
In search of furnishings that borrow from the vernacular of the Middle East in a similar way, Ms. Levent began at the Mondo Collection in the Flatiron district, where the work of Nada Debs, a Lebanese designer, caught her eye.
为寻找以类似思路借鉴了中东特色的家具，莱文特从熨斗区(Flatiron district)的Mondo Collection商店逛起。店内的一件由黎巴嫩设计师娜达·德布斯(Nada Debs)设计的作品吸引了她的目光。
“She’s a Middle Eastern designer interpreting her cultural past through new material and processes,” said Ms. Levent, who singled out a “very contemporary” Arabian Nights mirror that cleverly replaced the traditional mother-of-pearl inlay with resin and brass.
“她是一位以新的材料和制作工艺来诠释自己传统文化的中东设计师，”莱文特说，她挑出一面“非常有现代感的‘天方夜谭’镜，它非常巧妙地用树脂和黄铜取代了传统的珍珠母镶嵌物。”
She also praised Ms. Debs’s Arabesque dining chair, which had a white lacquer finish that looked “like it could be made of carved marble,” she said, “and casts a different light from every angle.”
她还称赞了德布斯设计的阿拉伯式餐厅座椅，那把椅子上涂了一层白漆，看起来“像用雕花大理石做的”，她说，“而且从每个角度都闪现出不同的光泽。”
Tom Dixon’s Etch light, at Property in SoHo, also channeled a Middle East aesthetic with “a play of shade and light and reflection, of throwing patterns on a wall,” she said. “But this is done in a very modern way, more abstract and westernized.”
在苏豪区(SoHo)的Property商店里，由汤姆·迪克森(Tom Dixon)设计的Etch网状吊灯通过“玩转光影与反射，在墙壁上投下图案”，也沿袭了一种中东审美趣味，她说。“但是这盏吊灯又设计得很有现代感，显得更加抽象和西方化。”
Ms. Levent also picked out several ottomans, which are “very much a part of nomadic traditions,” she said. “In Middle East culture, furniture often does double duty, so an ottoman could also be used as a table, or for seating.”
莱文特还挑中了几张搁脚凳。这些凳子是“游牧传统中的一个重要组成部分”，她说，“在中东文化中，家具通常具备双重职能，所以一张搁脚凳既能当桌子用，又能用来坐。”
And the one she found on the Anthropologie Web site, a 79-inch-wide Saraband ottoman upholstered in an old dhurrie carpet, was even more versatile: it was nearly big enough to serve as a bed.
还有她在Anthropologie网站上找到的一张79英寸（约2米）宽的Saraband搁脚凳，外面包着一层老式印度手纺纱棉毯。它的用途就更多了：大得几乎足以当床睡。