FERGUSON, Mo. — After a chaotic night of demonstrations that erupted in many fires, frequent bursts of gunshots, looting and waves of tear gas, Gov. Jay Nixon said early Tuesday that he would send additional National Guard troops to help quell the worst violence this battered St. Louis suburb has seen since a white police officer shot and killed an unarmed black teenager in August.
密苏里州弗格森——在这里夜间的示威活动中，多处爆发了火灾，不断有阵阵枪声，还发生了抢劫，警方使用了大量催泪瓦斯。在度过了一个混乱之夜后，州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)于周二凌晨表示，他将增派国民警卫队，以帮助这个受重创的圣路易斯郊区平息暴力活动，这次的暴力是这里自一名白人警察在8月份枪杀了一名没有武器的黑人少年以来最严重的。
The hours of unrest followed the announcement on Monday evening that a grand jury had chosen not to indict the officer, Darren Wilson, for the death of Michael Brown. St. Louis County reported that 61 people had been arrested.
周一晚，在宣布了大陪审团选择不就迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的死亡对警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)提出起诉后，爆发了好几个小时的动乱。圣路易斯县的报告说，已有61人被逮捕。
“I really don’t have any hesitation in telling you that I didn’t see a lot of peaceful protest out there tonight, and I’m disappointed about that,” Jon Belmar, the St. Louis County police chief, said early Tuesday at a news conference. “I’m not saying there weren’t folks out there that were out there for the right reason — I’m not saying that wasn’t the case — but I am saying that, unfortunately, this spun out of control.”
“我毫不犹豫地告诉你们，我昨晚没在那里看到多少和平的抗议，我对此深感失望，”圣路易斯县警察局长乔恩·贝尔马尔(Jon Belmar)在周二早上的新闻发布会上说。“我不是说，那里没有以正当理由出现在那里的人们，我不是说，情况不是那样，但我要说的是，非常遗憾，情况失去了控制。”
Chief Belmar said demonstrators had set fire to at least a dozen buildings in and around Ferguson, and estimated that he had heard about 150 gunshots. The police, he said, did not fire any live ammunition.
贝尔马尔说，示威者放火点燃了弗格森镇里和周围的至少十几座建筑物，他估计自己听到了约150次枪声。他说，警方没有使用任何实弹。
Asked whether he would call the unrest that unfolded in Ferguson a riot, the chief replied, “Oh yeah, this fits.”
当被问及他是否会把弗格森发生的动荡称为暴乱时，警察局长回答说：“对，这就是。”
Fires continued to burn into Tuesday, and some of the flames and smoke on West Florissant Avenue, a main thoroughfare that was an epicenter of violence in August, lapped over the fence lines behind the storefronts, swooping perilously close to homes.
火在周二仍继续燃烧着，弗洛里森特西大街的火焰和烟雾越过店铺后边的栅栏，危险地向附近人家迫近，这条主干道是八月份暴力爆发的中心地带。
“It’s horrible, horrible, horrible, horrible,” said Tammy Ruffin, 54, standing in stinging smoke that swept over her house Tuesday morning. “I knew this was going to happen.”
“这太可怕了，太可怕了，太可怕了，太可怕了，”54岁的塔米·鲁芬(Tammy Ruffin)周二早上站在充满了自己房子的刺鼻烟雾中说。“我知道这会发生。”
Although she said that she, too, was upset that Officer Wilson had not been indicted, “It’s the wrong reaction,” she said.
虽然她这样说，但她也对威尔逊没有被起诉仍很不满，她说，“这是错误的反应。”
The outbreak of violence played out even as President Obama spoke from the White House and pleaded for calm and restraint from both the police and the protesters.
就在奥巴马总统在白宫发表讲话，恳求警方和抗议者都保持冷静和克制的同时，暴力爆发了。
“First and foremost, we are a nation built on the rule of law,” Mr. Obama said. “And so we need to accept that this decision was the grand jury’s to make.”
“首先，我们是建立在法治之上的国家，”奥巴马说。“所以，我们必须接受，这个决定要由大陪审团来做。”
Speaking at a news conference in Clayton, Mo., Robert P. McCulloch, the St. Louis County prosecuting attorney, described the series of events that led to the shooting, as well as the evidence presented to the 12-member grand jury. He detailed an altercation inside Officer Wilson’s vehicle, after which Officer Wilson had Mr. Brown’s blood on his weapon, shirt and pants, the prosecutor said, as well as swelling and redness on his face.
圣路易斯县检察官罗伯特·P·麦卡洛克(Robert P. McCulloch)在克莱顿的一个新闻发布会上，描述了导致枪杀的一系列事件，还公布了出示给大陪审团12名成员的证据。他详细描述了在威尔逊车里发生的口角，那之后，威尔逊的枪上、以及上衣和裤子上都有布朗的血迹，检察官说，警官的脸上还有红肿。
But the words spoken by Mr. Obama and Mr. McCulloch seemed distant here on a night when screams and gunshots echoed through the streets, demonstrators looted stores and set vehicles ablaze, and officers were pelted with rocks and bricks. Demonstrations also played out across the country, including in Atlanta; Los Angeles; New York; Oakland, Calif.; and Philadelphia. The demonstrations were largely peaceful.
但是，奥巴马和麦卡洛克的话对这里来说似乎很遥远，在这里的夜里，人们听到的是大声喊叫和街上回荡的枪声，看到的是示威者洗劫商店，点燃汽车，向警察投掷石头和砖块。示威活动也在全国各地爆发，包括在亚特兰大、洛杉矶、纽约、加州的奥克兰，以及费城。这些地方的示威活动大多是和平的。
In Ferguson, the unrest that began outside the police station quickly spread through other parts of the city and region, as people braved chilly temperatures to take to the streets. In St. Louis, protesters shuttered Interstate 44 and marched along Grand Boulevard in the southern part of the city.
在弗格森警察局外开始的动荡，很快扩大到镇子的其他地方及附近地区，人们冒着寒冷的天气走上街头。在圣路易斯市，抗议者导致44号州际公路关闭，他们沿着城市南边的格兰德大道游行。
Disorder broke out moments after Mr. McCulloch announced that Mr. Wilson would not face charges for the Aug. 9 shooting.
麦卡洛克宣布威尔逊不会因8月9日的枪杀事件而面临指控之后，骚乱在瞬间爆发。
Mr. Brown’s mother, Lesley McSpadden, and stepfather, Louis Head, stood with protesters outside the barricaded Ferguson police station as Mr. McCulloch made the decision public. As Ms. McSpadden cried, Mr. Head turned and yelled, with an expletive injected, “Burn this down!”
检察官把决定公诸于众时，布朗的母亲莱斯利·麦克斯帕登(Lesley McSpadden)和继父路易斯·海德(Louis Head)正站在封锁了弗格森警察局的示威者人群中。随着麦克斯帕登的哭声，海德转过身来，夹着脏词大喊，“把它烧掉！”
The crowd began to roar, and some demonstrators rushed toward a fence near which police officers had assembled.
人群开始咆哮，有的示威者冲向一个围栏，警察就集结在围栏附近。
“You need to disperse,” a voice over the loudspeaker of an armored police vehicle said after protesters threw rocks at officers, vandalized buildings and set fire to a police squad car. “Leave the area immediately.”
示威者向警察投掷石块、捣毁建筑物，还点燃了一辆警车，之后从装甲警车的喇叭中发出的一个声音说，“你们需要散开。马上离开这个地方。”
Almost on cue, right after Mr. McCulloch said that Officer Wilson would not be charged, cars began flooding what was an empty West Florissant Avenue. Outraged pedestrians foretold the volatility that ensued.
几乎就像是在等待出场提示，麦卡洛克说威尔逊将不会被起诉的话刚完，汽车开始涌入原来空荡荡的弗洛里森特西大街。愤怒的行人预示了随后发生的动荡。
As the unrest began in some parts of Ferguson, the police initially held back. On West Florissant, demonstrators shattered windows at a McDonald’s restaurant and a wireless phone store, and they removed wooden boards that were intended to protect a liquor store.
随着骚乱在弗格森镇的一些地方开始，警方最初并没有采取行动。在弗洛里森特西大街，示威者打破了一家麦当劳餐厅和一个无线手机零售店的玻璃，他们拆掉了旨在保护一个酒品零售店的木板。
But the police eventually returned to the streets with significant force. As the authorities regained control of most of West Florissant, they formed a line with armored vehicles to restrict access and threatened to arrest those who remained on the street.
但警方最终动用了足够的力量，出现在街头。当局恢复了对弗洛里森特西大街大部分地段的控制之后，他们用装甲警车形成了一道障碍，限制人们进入，并威胁要逮捕留在街上的人。
“You need to stop destroying the city of Ferguson,” an officer said over a loudspeaker.
一名警官在扬声器中说，“你们需要停止破坏弗格森的城市。”
Chief Belmar said the initial, hands-off tactics by the police were intended to allow protesters to stage peaceful demonstrations, but he said that the situation ultimately grew so unstable that it required a more forceful approach.
警察局长贝尔马尔说，警方最初按兵不动的做法，是为了让抗议者举行和平的示威，他说，但是情况最终变得如此不稳定，以至于需要采取更有力的措施。
In a terse statement issued just after 1 a.m., the office of Mr. Nixon, who visited Ferguson hours before the grand jury’s announcement, said the governor had ordered more members of the National Guard into the city, but did not specify how many.
在凌晨1点不久后发布的简短声明中，尼克松的办公室表示，州长已下令更多的国民警卫队进入弗格森，但没有给出具体人数，州长曾在大陪审团做出宣布的几小时前来过弗格森。
“The Guard is providing security at the Ferguson Police Department, which will allow additional law enforcement officers to protect the public,” the statement said.
州长办公室的声明说，“国民警卫队将保卫弗格森警察局的安全，这将让更多的执法人员去保护公众。”
On Monday night, National Guard soldiers had been assigned to protect, among other locations, a police command post and an electrical substation. That approach, though, frustrated Ferguson’s mayor, James Knowles III, as the unrest spread.
周一晚，国民警卫队的士兵被派前往保护警察指挥所和一个变电站，还有其他的地方。但是随着动荡的蔓延，这种做法让弗格森市长詹姆斯·诺尔斯三世(James Knowles III)颇为沮丧。
“They’re here in the area,” Mr. Knowles said, “I don’t know why they’re not deploying.”
诺尔斯说，“他们就在这个地区。我不明白，他们为什么不出动。”
It remained unclear what other steps the authorities would take to manage protests that were expected to continue. Earlier this year, Mr. Nixon briefly imposed a midnight curfew in Ferguson.
目前尚不清楚当局在管理抗议活动上会采取什么其他行动，预计示威将继续下去。今年早些时候，尼克松曾在短时间里对弗格森实行过午夜宵禁。
Captain Ronald S. Johnson of the Missouri State Highway Patrol, one of the commanders overseeing the police response, deflected a question about whether Missouri officials might reinstate a curfew.
密苏里州高速公路巡警队队长罗纳尔德·S·约翰逊(Ronald S. Johnson)是负责警方响应的指挥官之一，他没有回答关于密苏里州的官员是否会再次实行宵禁的问题。
“A curfew wouldn’t have made a difference tonight,” he said.
他说，“宵禁对今晚来说不会起什么作用。”