A police officer in suburban St. Louis fatally shot a man who pointed a gun at him outside a gas station on Tuesday night, the authorities said.
当地有关部门表示，周二夜间，在圣路易斯郊区一个加油站外，一名警官开枪打死了一名把手枪指向他的男子。
The episode occurred less than five miles from Ferguson, Mo., where the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager in August by a white officer prompted months of protests and started a national conversation about race and the use of force by the police.
此事件发生的地方距密苏里州弗格森镇不到五英里（约8公里），今年8月，一名白人警察在那里开枪打死了一个手无寸铁的黑人少年，引发了数月的抗议活动，也引发了一场有关种族与警察使用武力的全国讨论。
The St. Louis County Police said in a statement that a police officer from Berkeley, Mo., was doing “a routine business check” at a Mobil gas station near the St. Louis airport around 11:15 p.m. on Tuesday when he approached two men he saw along the building’s side.
圣路易斯县警方在一份声明中说，密苏里州伯克利镇的一名警察，周二晚11点15分前后在圣路易斯机场附近的一家美孚加油站执行“例行检查”时，在房子的一侧看到两名男子，并朝他们走过去。
“The Berkeley police officer exited his vehicle and approached the subjects when one of the men pulled a handgun and pointed it at the officer,” the county police department, which is leading the investigation, said in a statement. “Fearing for his life, the Berkeley officer fired several shots, striking the subject, fatally wounding him. The second subject fled the scene.”
“这名伯克利镇警察下了自己的车，朝那两人走去，他们中的一人掏出一把手枪，并把其指向警官，”县警察局的声明说，该局正在领导调查这次事件。“出于对自己生命安全的担心，该伯克利警官连开数枪，击中了一名对象，令其受了致命伤。另一名对象逃离现场。”
The police said they had recovered a handgun at the scene.
警方表示，他们已在现场找到了手枪。
Police released surveillance tape that showed the police car pulling into the gas station parking lot. The officer appeared to get out of the car, turn on his flashlight and speak for several seconds with two people.
警方发布的监控录像显示，警车开进加油站的停车场。警官似乎从车里下来，打开他的手电筒，与两人讲了几秒钟的话。
The video was taken from a distance but the episode did not appear to turn confrontational until one of the men turned away, reached down and then turned back to face the officer, appearing to point his arm straight out. The police said the man was holding a 9 mm handgun. At that point, the video stops; the shooting itself is not shown.
该视频是从一定的距离拍摄的，开始时并没有出现对抗，直到其中一名男子转身从下面拿起什么，然后转过身来面对警官，他的胳膊看似向前直指着。警方说，该男子拿的是一把9毫米手枪。视频在此刻停止，没有显示枪击过程。
In a news conference Wednesday, Chief Jon Belmar of the St. Louis County Police extended his sympathy to the dead man’s family and said such events “are nothing but tragedies.”
在周三的新闻发布会上，圣路易斯县警察局局长乔恩·贝尔马尔(Jon Belmar)对死者家属表示同情，并表示这类事件“只有悲剧”。
But Chief Belmar, who was criticized for how his department responded to unrest in Ferguson, said the surveillance video appeared to show that the officer was in immediate danger and that using a Taser or pepper spray was not a realistic option at that moment.
人们曾因其部门应对弗格森骚乱的方式批评过贝尔马尔，但他说，监控录像似乎显示，该警官面临直接的危险，在那种时刻使用电击枪或胡椒喷雾不是一种切实的选择。
Chief Belmar said that the officer had gone to the gas station to respond to a call about a theft. He said the officer, who is white, has been on the Berkeley force for about six years. The officer will be placed on administrative leave pending an investigation.
贝尔马尔说，该警官前往加油站是由于有一个盗窃报警。他说，该警官在伯克利警察部门工作已大约6年，他是白人。该官员将行政休假，等待调查结果。
Investigators believe that the officer fired three times, striking the suspect once. They do not believe that the suspect fired his gun.
调查人员认为，该警官总共开了三枪，其中一枪击中了嫌疑人。他们不认为嫌疑人的枪开过火。
After the shooting, a large crowd gathered at the station. Chief Belmar said there were three instances of explosives, likely fireworks, being set off, and bricks or rocks that were thrown at police. At least two officers were injured, and four people were arrested on charges of assaulting an officer. By sunrise, the crowd had dissipated.
枪击事件之后，一大群人聚集到加油站。贝尔马尔说，有三次爆炸发生，爆炸物可能是烟花，还有人向警察投掷了砖头和石块。至少有两名警官受伤，并有四人因袭警指控被逮捕。到太阳升起来的时候，人群已经散去。
Since Darren Wilson, the white officer in Ferguson, fatally shot the 18-year-old Michael Brown, protests have been almost daily occurrences around St. Louis. The demonstrations, which later spread across the country, have focused on the use of force by police officers against black men and highlighted a lack of trust between many around St. Louis and the police.
自从弗格森的白人警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)开枪打死了18岁的迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)以来，圣路易斯周边地区几乎每天都有抗议活动发生。示威活动后来蔓延到全国，焦点是警察对黑人使用武力，凸现了圣路易斯周围许多人与警察之间存在互不信任的问题。
Berkeley, a mostly black suburb with about 9,000 residents, is among the dozens of small, working-class municipalities that surround St. Louis.
伯克利镇是一个以黑人为主的郊区，大约有9000名居民，是圣路易斯周围的几十个工薪阶层居住的小市镇之一。
The city borders Ferguson, where an intensified round of protests began last month after a grand jury decided not to indict Officer Wilson. Though the demonstrations there have been mostly peaceful, two nights of sometimes-violent actions left several businesses and police cars burned and looted in the St. Louis area.
伯克利紧挨着弗格森，上个月，在大陪审团决定不起诉威尔逊警官之后，弗格森爆发了一轮更激烈的抗议活动。虽然那里的示威活动大部分是和平的，但两个晚上时而暴力的行为，导致圣路易斯的这个地区几处商店遭到洗劫、警车被烧毁。