FERGUSON, Mo. — Expressing concern over the “violent turn” of events in this St. Louis suburb, President Obama said on Thursday that he wanted an open and transparent investigation into the shooting death on Saturday of an unarmed 18-year-old black man by the police.
密苏里州弗格森——美国总统奥巴马对圣路易斯市郊的事件“转向暴力”表示关切，他于周四表示，对警察上周六开枪打死一名不带武器的18岁黑人男子一事，要有一个公开、透明的调查。
Speaking on Martha’s Vineyard, where he is on vacation, Mr. Obama said there was no excuse for the use of excessive force by the police that has persisted in the five days of protests since the shooting of the teenager, Michael Brown.
奥巴马在他正在度假的玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha's Vineyard)说，警方没有理由对抗议者过度使用武力，已经为期五天的抗议活动始于迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)被枪杀之后。
“Now’s the time for healing,” Mr. Obama said. “Now’s the time for peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson.”
“现在是让伤口愈合的时候，”奥巴马说。“现在是让弗格森的街道和平和平静的时候。”
Minutes earlier, Gov. Jay Nixon promised that residents of Ferguson were going to see a different tone in the response by the police after five nights of unrest during which the authorities have used tear gas and rubber bullets to control the crowds.
就在奥巴马讲话的几分钟前，州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)承诺，弗格森的居民将会看到警方做出不同方式的反应，此前，当局在5个晚上的骚乱中使用了催泪瓦斯和橡皮子弹，以控制人群。
FERGUSON, Mo. — In the days since an unarmed young black man was fatally shot by a police officer here, the selective release of information about the shooting, and especially the anonymity granted the officer, has stoked frustrations in this largely African-American community north of St. Louis, where residents describe increasingly tense relations with the police.
一个不带武器的年轻黑人男子被弗格森的一名警官枪杀，那之后的几天中，警方选择性地发布信息，尤其是让那名警官保持匿名的做法，在圣路易斯北部的这个郊区社区激起了不满，非洲裔美国人在这个社区中占大多数，他们描述了与这里警方日益紧张的关系。
The police chief, Thomas Jackson, has repeatedly declined to identify the officer, who has been put on administrative leave. But on Wednesday, the chief did offer a new detail about the shooting, which has kindled widespread racial unrest in the five days since.
当地的警察局长托马斯·杰克逊(Thomas Jackson)多次拒绝透露那名警官的姓名，该警官已处于行政离职状态。但局长在周三提供了一些有关枪杀的新细节，枪杀事件已点燃了5天的大范围种族动乱。
Jackson said that the officer who shot Michael Brown, 18, on Saturday was struck in the face during the encounter and treated at a hospital. Touching his own cheek, the chief said that a side of the officer's face was swollen from what the police have described as a struggle in which Brown assaulted the officer and tried to take his gun — an account disputed by a witness, a friend of Brown's who said his hands were raised when the last of several shots was fired.
杰克逊说，上周六开枪打死18岁的迈克尔·布朗的警官，在冲突中面部遭到袭击，正在一家医院接受治疗。局长摸着自己的脸颊说，该警官脸的一侧肿了，那是被警方描述为一场斗争所造成的，警方称布朗攻击了该执法人员，并试图夺他的枪；一位目击者对这一描述表示异议，他是布朗的朋友，他说，最后几发子弹射出时，布朗高举着双手。
Despite persistent and increasingly angry calls from the public to release the officer's name, Jackson said the officer required protection after numerous death threats had been made.
尽管公众在持续不断且日益愤怒地呼吁要求公开该警官姓名，杰克逊说，在收到了大量的死亡威胁后，该警官要求得到保护。
Computer hackers, saying they were outraged by police conduct, now have also joined the fray.
计算机黑客说他们被警察的行为激怒了，现也已加入到争斗中来。
Anonymous, the loosely organized group of international hackers, bragged on Twitter that it had broken into Ferguson's computer system. It released details about city workers and posted photos of Jon Belmar, the chief of the St. Louis County police who is conducting the investigation into the shooting, as well as his wife, son and daughter. It also posted his address and phone number. The group also threatened to bring down city, county and federal networks if the police overreacted to rallies and protests.
由国际黑客松散组成的“匿名者”(Anonymous)组织在Twitter上吹嘘，已打进弗格森的计算机系统。这个组织公布了有关该市职工的详细信息，还把圣路易斯县警察局长乔恩·贝尔马尔(Jon Belmar)以及他的妻子、儿子和女儿的照片张贴出来。并公布了他的地址和电话号码。该组织还扬言要搞垮市、县和联邦的计算机网络，如果警方对集会和抗议活动反应过度的话。
Jackson and the St. Louis County prosecutor, Robert P. McCulloch, both held news conferences on Wednesday to try to allay concerns without divulging the officer's name or details of the investigation.
杰克逊和圣路易斯县检察官罗伯特·P·麦卡洛克(Robert P. McCulloch)分别在周三召开新闻发布会，试图减轻人们的担忧，他们都没有透露有关人员的姓名或调查细节。
McCulloch promised a thorough investigation but refused to say how long it would take. “There is no timeline,” he said.
麦卡洛克承诺将进行彻底的调查，但拒绝回答调查将需要多长时间的问题。他说，“没有一个时间表。”
But he added that all the evidence would be made public, whether or not there was an indictment. Whether to identify an officer in a charged situation like a shooting has been a continual tug of war around the country, pitting the desire of police departments to protect their own and the demands of victims' relatives and the public for accountability.
但他补充说，所有的证据都将会公诸于众，不管是否会进行起诉。在处理像枪杀这种充满情绪的情况时，是否公布警官姓名的问题，在全国各地都引起双方持续不断的激烈争夺，一方是警察部门保护自己成员的愿望，另一方是受害者家属和公众追究责任的要求。
“I get why they want to protect him,” said Meko Taylor, 36, of Ferguson, who was at a protest on Wednesday. “But the people want answers. When we get answers, things will calm down.”
“我明白他们为什么要保护他，”36岁的弗格森居民梅科·泰勒(Meko Taylor)说，他参加了周三的抗议活动。“但人们想得到一个说法。一旦我们得到这个说法，事情就会平息下来。”
David A. Harris, an expert on police misconduct and accountability at the University of Pittsburgh Law School, said: “Police departments do not welcome disclosure or the input of outsiders. So when you have a problem like this, it's hardly surprising to see that they are very reluctant to give out information.”
匹兹堡大学法学院的大卫·A·哈里斯(David A. Harris)专门研究警察的不当行为和追究责任问题，他说：“警察部门都不喜欢公开事情，或让外人介入。所以，当这样的问题出现时，看到他们非常不愿意提供信息是毫不奇怪的。”
That reflexive, insular stance is increasingly being questioned in the courts, said Merrick J. Bobb, a Los Angeles-based consultant on police oversight. “What is happening is that in a number of jurisdictions, voluntarily or as a result of a lawsuit, the ability of police to keep the name of the officer secret has been constrained,” he said.
这种本能的狭隘做法在法庭上正越来越多地受到质疑，梅里克·J·鲍勃(Merrick J. Bobb)说，他住在洛杉矶，专为警察权力行使的监督提供咨询。他说，“在几个司法管辖区正在发生的情况是，不论是自愿，还是诉讼的结果，警方保密涉案警官姓名的能力已经受到限制。”
In Missouri, legal groups citing the state's sunshine law have joined with community leaders to press for information about the officer who shot Brown.
在密苏里州，几个法律团体援引该州的阳光法案，正与社区领导人一起，为得到有关开枪打死布朗的警官的信息，向警方施加压力。
On Tuesday, the Missouri office of the American Civil Liberties Union wrote to the Ferguson and St. Louis County police departments requesting unredacted copies of the “incident reports” describing the death of Brown. Adding to the pressure, the National Bar Association, an organization of African-American lawyers and judges, also filed a records request Wednesday with the Ferguson Police Department.
周二，美国公民自由联盟的密苏里州办事处写信给弗格森市和圣路易斯县警察部门，索要未经保密处理的、描述布朗死亡的“事故报告”副本。由非洲裔的律师和法官组成的美国律师协会(American Bar Association)，也在周三向弗格森警察局提交了索要记录的请求，加大了对警方的压力。
On Wednesday, the St. Louis County medical examiner's office said it would take two to three weeks to complete the autopsy of Brown, including a toxicology report, which is standard procedure in such deaths, said Suzanne McCune, a forensic administrator at the office.
周三，圣路易斯县法医办公室表示，还需要两到三周时间才能完成布朗的验尸报告，包括毒理学报告，在这类死亡案中，毒理分析是标准程序，法医办公室行政人员苏珊·麦丘恩(Suzanne McCune)说。
McCune said that a preliminary autopsy was completed Monday and found that Brown had died of gunshot wounds, but gave no other details; she added that Brown's body had been released to his family. McCune said the police department would decide whether to approve the release of the report once it was complete.
麦丘恩说，已在周一进行了初步验尸，确定布朗死于枪伤，但没有透露其他细节；她补充说，布朗的遗体已交还给他的家人。麦丘恩说，验尸报告一旦完成，警察部门将决定是否准许报告发布。
Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer representing the Brown family, said that arrangements were being made for a private autopsy to be performed in the next week or so. “The family wants an autopsy done by somebody who is objective and who does not have a relationship with the Ferguson police,” Crump said.
代表布朗家人的律师本杰明·L·克伦普(Benjamin L. Crump)表示，正在安排在下周左右进行一次私人验尸。“他的家人想让客观的、与弗格森警察局没有关系的第三方做一次尸检，”克伦普说。