FERGUSON, Mo. — Garland Moore, a hospital worker, lived in this St. Louis suburb for much of his 33 years, a period in which a largely white community has become a largely black one.
密苏里州弗格森——今年33岁的加兰·摩尔(Garland Moore)是一家医院的职工，他一生中的很大一部分时光，都是在圣路易斯的这个郊区度过的；在这段时期里，这个原本以白人为主的社区，已经变成了黑人占绝大多数。
He attended its schools and is raising his family in this place of suburban homes and apartment buildings on the outskirts of a struggling Midwest city. And over time, he has felt his life to be circumscribed by Ferguson’s demographics.
他在该社区的学校里读书，并在这个地方赚钱养家；这里是一片住宅和公寓楼区，位于美国中西部一座处于困境的城市的市郊。随着时间的推移，他感觉自己的生活受到了弗格森人口结构的限制。
Mr. Moore, who is black, talks of how he has felt the wrath of the police here and in surrounding suburbs for years — roughed up during a minor traffic stop and prevented from entering a park when he was wearing St. Louis Cardinals red.
摩尔是黑人，他谈到了自己多年以来对这里和临近郊区城镇的警察，感到多么愤怒——在停车检查时，警察对他动粗；他身穿圣路易斯红雀队(St. Louis Cardinals)的红色衣服，警察却不准他进入一所公园。
And last week, as he stood at a vigil for an unarmed 18-year-old shot dead by the police — a shooting that provoked renewed street violence and looting early Saturday — Mr. Moore heard anger welling and listened to a shout of: “We’re tired of the racist police department.”
上周，当他为一名被警察枪杀的青年站立守夜时，摩尔听到了喷涌怒吼，有人高喊道：“我们受够了警方的种族主义行径。”手无寸铁的18岁青年遭到枪杀的事件，又在周六早上引发了新一波街头暴力和趁乱打劫的举动。
“It broke the camel’s back,” Mr. Moore said of the killing of the teenager, Michael Brown. Referring to the northern part of St. Louis County, he continued, “The people in North County — not just African-Americans, some of the white people, too — they are tired of the police harassment.”
“这是压垮骆驼的最后一根稻草，”摩尔谈到迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)之死时说道。他还说，在圣路易斯县北部，“这里的人，不仅是非裔美国人，还包括一些白人，都受够了警察的骚扰”​。
The origins of the area’s complex social and racial history date to the 19th century when the city of St. Louis and St. Louis County went their separate ways, leading to the formation of dozens of smaller communities outside St. Louis. Missouri itself has always been a state with roots in both the Midwest and the South, and racial issues intensified in the 20th century as St. Louis became a stopping point for the northern migration of Southern blacks seeking factory jobs in Detroit and Chicago.
该地区复杂的社会和种族历史可以追溯到19世纪，当时圣路易斯市和圣路易斯县开始各自为政，于是圣路易斯城外先后形成了数十个规模较小的社区。密苏里州的根源，一面在中西部，另一面则在南方。到20世纪，当南方的黑人向北迁徙，前往底特律和芝加哥的工厂寻找工作机会时，圣路易斯成为途中的一个停靠站，因而这里的种族问题愈演愈烈。
As African-Americans moved into the city and whites moved out, real estate agents and city leaders, in a pattern familiar elsewhere in the country, conspired to keep blacks out of the suburbs through the use of zoning ordinances and restrictive covenants. But by the 1970s, some of those barriers had started to fall, and whites moved even farther away from the city. These days, Ferguson is like many of the suburbs around St. Louis, inner-ring towns that accommodated white flight decades ago but that are now largely black. And yet they retain a white power structure.
随着非裔美国人迁入市区，白人迁出市区，房地产经纪人和市政府领导者串通一气，利用规划条例和限制性的契约，避免黑人搬进郊区城镇，这种模式在美国其他地方也很常见。但是到了20世纪70年代，其中一些障碍开始瓦解，白人搬到了离市区更远的地方。如今，弗格森与圣路易斯周边的很多城镇一样，这些距离市区较近的内圈城镇都曾接纳过外移的白人，但现在黑人人口却占了绝大多数。然而，它们的权力结构仍然是白人在主导。
Although about two-thirds of Ferguson residents are black, its mayor and five of its six City Council members are white. Only three of the town’s 53 police officers are black.
虽然约三分之二弗格森居民是黑人，但这里的市长，以及市议会六名成员中的五名都是白人。该镇的53名警察中只有三个是黑人。
Turnout for local elections in Ferguson has been poor. The mayor, James W. Knowles III, noted his disappointment with the turnout — about 12 percent — in the most recent mayoral election during a City Council meeting in April. Patricia Bynes, a black woman who is the Democratic committeewoman for the Ferguson area, said the lack of black involvement in local government was partly the result of the black population’s being more transient in small municipalities and less attached to them.
弗格森地方选举的投票率一直很低。在市议会今年4月的一次会议上，市长詹姆斯·W·诺尔斯三世(James W. Knowles III)表示，他对最近一次市长选举12%左右的投票率感到失望。黑人女性帕特里夏·拜恩斯(Patricia Bynes)是弗格森地区的民主党委员。她说，黑人之所以对当地政府缺乏参与度，部分原因在于，黑人人口在这些小城镇居住的时间比较短，对它们缺乏感情。
There is also some frustration among blacks who say town government is not attuned to their concerns.
黑人中还存在一股不满情绪，觉得当地政府无视他们关心的问题。
Aliyah Woods, 45, once petitioned Ferguson officials for a sign that would warn drivers that a deaf family lived on that block. But the sign never came. “You get tired,” she said. “You keep asking, you keep asking. Nothing gets done.”
45岁的阿利亚·伍兹(Aliyah Woods)曾向弗格森的官员申请树立一面标志牌，警告驾驶者那条街上住着一家耳聋的人。但标志牌一直不见影子。“真是受够了，”她说。“你一直申请，一直申请。可什么事都办不成。”
Mr. Moore, who recently moved to neighboring Florissant, said he had attended a couple of Ferguson Council meetings to complain that the police should be patrolling the residential streets to try to prevent break-ins rather than lying in wait to catch people for traffic violations.
摩尔最近搬到了邻近的弗洛里森特，他说自己曾参加过弗格森政府的几次会议，抱怨警察应该到住宅区巡逻，防止入室盗窃事件的发生，而不是埋伏在路上等着抓交通违章的人。
This year, community members voiced anger after the all-white, seven-member school board for the Ferguson-Florissant district pushed aside its black superintendent for unrevealed reasons. That spurred several blacks to run for three board positions up for election, but only one won a seat.
今年，七名成员皆为白人的弗格森-弗洛里森特学区委员会，在没有透露原因的情况下，解除了该学区黑人督学的职务，这引起了社区成员的愤怒。此事促使数名黑人参选，角逐委员会的三个空缺席位，但只有一人赢得了一席。
The St. Louis County Police Department fired a white lieutenant last year for ordering officers to target blacks in shopping areas. That resulted in the department’s enlisting researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, to study whether the department was engaging in racial profiling.
圣路易斯县警察局去年解雇了一名白人警督，因为他命令警员在一个购物区专挑黑人检查。事件发生后，这个警察局聘用了加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的研究人员，来调查该部门是否在采取“种族定性”式的做法。
Ferguson’s police chief, Thomas Jackson, has been working with the Justice Department’s community relations team on improving interaction with residents. At a news conference here last week, he acknowledged some of the problems.
弗格森的警察局长托马斯·杰克逊(Thomas Jackson)一直在与美国司法部(Justice Department)的社区关系团队合作，设法改善与居民之间的互动状况。上周在这里举行的一场新闻发布会上，他承认有一些问题。
“I’ve been trying to increase the diversity of the department ever since I got here,” Chief Jackson said, adding that “race relations is a top priority right now.” As for working the with Justice Department, he said, “I told them, ‘Tell me what to do, and I’ll do it.’ ”
“自从我来到这里，就一直在设法提高警队的多样性，”杰克逊局长说。“种族关系是我们当前工作的重中之重。”关于与司法部的合作，他说，“我告诉他们，‘你们说要做什么，我就做什么。’ ”
Although experience and statistics suggest that Ferguson’s police force disproportionately targets blacks, it is not as imbalanced as in some neighboring departments in St. Louis County. While blacks are 37 percent more likely to be pulled over compared with their proportion of the population in Ferguson, that is less than the statewide average of 59 percent, according to Richard Rosenfeld, a professor of criminology at the University of Missouri-St. Louis.
虽然经验和统计数据都表明，弗格森的警队格外多地针对黑人，但在圣路易斯县的某些临近城镇，警察局的这种不平衡问题更加严重。密苏里大学圣路易斯分校(University of Missouri-St. Louis)的犯罪学教授理查德·罗森菲尔德(Richard Rosenfeld)表示，尽管这里黑人驾车时被拦下来的概率，比弗格森的黑人人口比例高37%，但这个数字的全州平均水平为59%。
In fact, Mr. Rosenfeld said, Ferguson did not fit the profile of a community that would be a spark for civil unrest. The town has “pockets of disadvantage” and middle and upper-middle income families. He said Ferguson had benefited in the last five to 10 years from economic growth in the northern part of the county, such as the expansion of Express Scripts, the Fortune 500 health care giant.
罗森菲尔德说，其实弗格森不像是一个会引发民众骚乱的社区。这个城镇有“弱势群体”，也居住着中高收入家庭。他说，过去五到十年，圣路易斯县北部的经济增长，比如财富500强(Fortune 500)企业、医疗保健巨头快捷药方公司(Express Scripts)的扩张，就惠及了弗格森地区。
“Ferguson does not stand out as the type of community where you would expect tensions with the police to boil over into violence and looting,” Mr. Rosenfeld said.
“在有些社区，你会预感到警民之间的紧张关系可能会爆发，引发暴力事件和趁乱打劫，但弗格森不是这样的典型社区，”罗森菲尔德说。
But the memory of the region’s racial history lingers.
但在这一地区，人们对过往种族问题的记忆挥之不去。
In 1949, a mob of whites showed up to attack blacks who lined up to get into the pool at Fairground Park in north St. Louis after it had been desegregated.
1949年，圣路易斯北部的菲尔格兰德公园废止种族隔离规定之后，就在一些黑人在排队进入公园的游泳池时，一帮白人暴徒上前袭击了排队的黑人。
In the 1970s, a court battle over public school inequality led to a settlement that created a desegregation busing program that exists to this day.
上世纪70年代，一场关于公立学校不平等的法律诉讼达成和解后，一项不区分种族的校车方案得以启用，并一直沿用至今。
A Ferguson city councilman caused a stir in 1970 when he used racially charged language to criticize teenagers from the neighboring town of Kinloch for throwing rocks and bottles at homes in Ferguson. The councilman, Carl Kersting, said, “We should call a black a black, and not be afraid to face up to these people,” according to an article in the St. Louis Globe-Democrat.
1970年时，一些来自邻镇金洛克的青少年，在弗格森向市民的住宅投掷石块和瓶子。弗格森的一名市议员使用有种族针对性的语言辱骂他们，引起一片哗然。《圣路易斯环球-民主党报》(St. Louis Globe-Democrat)的一篇文章写道，这位名为卡尔·克斯汀(Carl Kersting)的市议员当时说，“我们应该就把黑人叫作黑人，而且不应该害怕面对这些人。”
Eventually blacks broke down the barriers in the inner ring of suburbs, and whites fled farther out. But whites fought hard to protect their turf.
最后，黑人打破了内圈城镇的屏障，而白人逃到了更远的地方。但是白人也曾顽强地捍卫过自己的地盘。
In the mid-1970s, Alyce Herndon, a black woman, moved with her family to what was then the mostly white town of Jennings in St. Louis County. She said some of their white neighbors stuck an Afro pick in their front lawn and set it on fire. Ms. Herndon also recalled tensions flaring between black and white students at her school after the television mini-series “Roots” first aired in 1977.
上世纪70年代中期，黑人女性艾丽斯·赫恩登(Alyce Herndon)和家人搬到了圣路易斯县的詹宁斯镇，当时该镇绝大多数居民都是白人。她说，某一家白人邻居，将一把黑人常用的卷发梳插在了自家前院的草坪上，并点火焚烧。赫恩登还回忆道，电视迷你剧集《根》(Roots)在1977年首播之后，在她所在的学校里，黑人和白人学生之间产生了严峻的紧张情绪。
For all its segregation and discrimination, St. Louis did not have the major riots and unrest during the 1960s that was seen across the country.
尽管圣路易斯存在种族隔离和歧视，但在上世纪60年代，全美出现巨大的骚动和不安之时，这里却相对平静。
St. Louis’s black leaders “were able to pressure businesses and schools to open their doors to black people and employers to hire black workers,” Stefan Bradley, the director of African-American studies at St. Louis University, wrote in an email. “These concessions may have been enough to prevent St. Louis from taking what many believed to be the next step toward redress of injustice: violent rebellion.”
圣路易斯的黑人领袖“能够对商家和学校施加压力，让他们对黑人敞开大门，也能让雇主聘用黑人工人，”圣路易斯大学(St. Louis University)的非裔美国人研究主任斯特凡·布拉德利(Stefan Bradley)在一封电子邮件中写道。“这些让步可能就已经足以防止圣路易斯走向暴力叛乱了——很多人都认为，要纠正不公，下一步就是暴力叛乱。”