Institutional Investor’s latest “rich list” in its Alpha magazine, its survey of the 25 highest-paid hedge fund managers, is out — and it turns out that these guys make a lot of money. Surprise!
《机构投资者》(Institutional Investor)在旗下的《阿尔法》(Alpha)杂志发布了最新的“富豪榜”，也就是对25位薪酬最高的对冲基金经理进行的调查。结果显示这些人能挣好多钱。吃惊吗？
Yet before we dismiss the report as nothing new, let’s think about what it means that these 25 men (yes, they’re all men) made a combined $21 billion in 2013. In particular, let’s think about how their good fortune refutes several popular myths about income inequality in America.
不过在断定这份报告无甚新意之前，我们还是考虑一下这25个男人（对，的确都是男人），2013年总共挣了210亿美元（约合1300亿元人民币）意味着什么吧。具体而言，我们来考虑一下他们的财运怎样驳斥了人们对美国收入的不平等现象普遍存在的误解。
First, modern inequality isn’t about graduates. It’s about oligarchs. Apologists for soaring inequality almost always try to disguise the gigantic incomes of the truly rich by hiding them in a crowd of the merely affluent. Instead of talking about the 1 percent or the 0.1 percent, they talk about the rising incomes of college graduates, or maybe the top 5 percent. The goal of this misdirection is to soften the picture, to make it seem as if we’re talking about ordinary white-collar professionals who get ahead through education and hard work.
首先，现代不平等的关键并不在于毕业生，而是在于寡头。为极速加剧的不平等辩解的人，总是想遮蔽真正的富豪赚取的巨额收入，把他们藏在一群有些许小富的人背后。他们并不谈论那1%或者那0.1%，而是会谈论大学毕业生高涨的收入，或者收入水平最高的5%人。这样转移焦点，目标是柔化收入不平等的图景，显得我们讨论的仿佛是普通白领专业人士，通过教育和勤奋力争上游的故事。
But many Americans are well-educated and work hard. For example, schoolteachers. Yet they don’t get the big bucks. Last year, those 25 hedge fund managers made more than twice as much as all the kindergarten teachers in America combined. And, no, it wasn’t always thus: The vast gulf that now exists between the upper-middle-class and the truly rich didn’t emerge until the Reagan years.
然而很多美国人受到了良好的教育，而且勤奋努力。例如，教师。然而他们却赚不到大钱。去年，那25位对冲基金经理赚到的钱，比美国全部幼儿园教师整体收入的两倍还要多。而且这种情况并非一直就有：上层中产阶级和超级富豪之间的巨大鸿沟，直到里根(Reagan)时代才出现。
Second, ignore the rhetoric about “job creators” and all that. Conservatives want you to believe that the big rewards in modern America go to innovators and entrepreneurs, people who build businesses and push technology forward. But that’s not what those hedge fund managers do for a living; they’re in the business of financial speculation, which John Maynard Keynes characterized as “anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinion to be.” Or since they make much of their income from fees, they’re actually in the business of convincing other people that they can anticipate average opinion about average opinion.
其次，忽略所谓“就业岗位创造者”的种种说辞吧。保守派希望你相信，在现代美国，巨额回报都给了创新者和企业家，他们建立企业，推动技术进步。然而那些对冲基金经理却并不是以此谋生的，他们从事的生意是金融投机，约翰·梅纳德·凯恩斯(John Maynard Keynes)形容，这是“猜测普通人会怎么预测普通人的行为”。由于他们的许多收入来自佣金，不如说他们实际上从事的生意是，说服别人他们能预见普通人对普通人的猜想。
Once upon a time, you might have been able to argue with a straight face that all this wheeling and dealing was productive, that the financial elite was actually providing services to society commensurate with its rewards. But, at this point, the evidence suggests that hedge funds are a bad deal for everyone except their managers; they don’t deliver high enough returns to justify those huge fees, and they’re a major source of economic instability.
过去或许还能面无表情地辩解，所有这些投机取巧的勾当都是有建设性的，金融界的经营实际上为社会提供的服务，与他们取得的回报相称。然而现在，证据显示对冲基金对于所有人都是一桩坏买卖，只有基金经理除外，他们提供的回报率并没有高到足以证明自己应当拿到那么多佣金，他们也是经济不稳定的重要来源。
More broadly, we’re still living in the shadow of a crisis brought on by a runaway financial industry. Total catastrophe was avoided by bailing out banks at taxpayer expense, but we’re still nowhere close to making up for job losses in the millions and economic losses in the trillions. Given that history, do you really want to claim that America’s top earners — who are mainly either financial managers or executives at big corporations — are economic heroes?
在更宏大的意义上，我们仍然面临着失控的金融业所引发的危机阴影。尽管通过让纳税人买单救助银行，避免了全面性的灾难，但是要想弥补损失掉的数以百万计的工作岗位，以及数万亿美元的经济损失，我们差的还远。考虑一下这样的历史，你真的愿意宣称美国收入最高的人——他们大多数人要么管理金融业务，要么是大型企业的高管——是经济英雄吗？
Finally, a close look at the rich list supports the thesis made famous by Thomas Piketty in his book “Capital in the Twenty-First Century” — namely, that we’re on our way toward a society dominated by wealth, much of it inherited, rather than work.
最后，观察一下富豪榜，就能发现托马斯·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)在他的书《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)中表达的观点是有根据的，即我们正在走向一个富人主导的社会，而且他们的财富许多源自继承，而非工作。
At first sight, this may not be obvious. The members of the rich list are, after all, self-made men. But, by and large, they did their self-making a long time ago. As Bloomberg View’s Matt Levine points out, these days a lot of top money managers’ income comes not from investing other people’s money but from returns on their own accumulated wealth — that is, the reason they make so much is the fact that they’re already very rich.
乍看上去，这一点并没有那么明显。富豪榜中的人物毕竟是白手起家。但总体而言他们致富的时间都是很久以前。就像《彭博视点》(Bloomberg View)的马特·莱文(Matt Levine)指出的，现在顶尖的基金经理中，许多人的收入并非来自用他人资金进行的投资，而是来自他们自身积累的财富所取得的回报。也就是说，他们之所以赚钱这么多，原因是他们本来就已经很富有了。
And this is, if you think about, an inevitable development. Over time, extreme inequality in income leads to extreme inequality of wealth; indeed, the wealth share of America’s top 0.1 percent is back at Gilded Age levels. This, in turn, means that high incomes increasingly come from investment income, not salaries. And it’s only a matter of time before inheritance becomes the biggest source of great wealth.
而且思考一下就会发现，这是一种不可避免的趋势。长期来看，极端的收入不平等会导致极端的财富不平等；的确，美国收入最高的0.1%人口所拥有的财富比例已经回到了“镀金时代”的程度。这反过来又意味着，高收入越来越多地来自投资收入，而非薪酬。继承成为巨额财富的最重要来源，只是一个时间问题。
But why does all of this matter? Basically, it’s about taxes.
但这个问题为什么重要呢？基本上是因为它涉及税收。
America has a long tradition of imposing high taxes on big incomes and large fortunes, designed to limit the concentration of economic power as well as raising revenue. These days, however, suggestions that we revive that tradition face angry claims that taxing the rich is destructive and immoral — destructive because it discourages job creators from doing their thing, immoral because people have a right to keep what they earn.
针对高收入者和拥有巨额财富者征收高额税收，是美国长期的传统，这一设计意在限制经济力量的集中，同时提高财政收入。然而当下，一旦提到恢复这样的传统，就会面临愤怒的指责：对富人征税是有破坏性的，是不道德的。有破坏性是因为，这样会使就业岗位的创造者不愿努力工作；不道德是因为，人们有权保留自己赚到的钱。
But such claims rest crucially on myths about who the rich really are and how they make their money. Next time you hear someone declaiming about how cruel it is to persecute the rich, think about the hedge fund guys, and ask yourself if it would really be a terrible thing if they paid more in taxes.
然而这种论调的核心基础在于，我们对富人都是怎样的人、富人的钱是怎样赚到的存在的错误理解。下次听到有人宣称迫害富人有多么残忍时，请想想那些做对冲基金的家伙，再问问自己，让他们多缴一些税，真的是一件糟糕的事吗？