A 33-story glassy tower rising on Manhattan’s waterfront will offer all the extras that a condo buyer paying up to $25 million would expect, like concierge service, entertainment rooms, and unobstructed views of the Hudson River and miles beyond.
一栋33层的玻璃幕墙大厦，正在曼哈顿的水滨地带拔地而起，这栋大楼将能满足一位花费高达2500万美元（约合人民币1.5亿元）购置一套共管公寓的买家所期待的一切，比如门房服务、多间娱乐室，以及哈德逊河及数英里外一览无余的风景。
The project will also cater to renters who make no more than about $50,000. They will not share the same perks, and they will also not share the same entrance.
该项目还将迎合那些收入不超过5万美元（约合人民币31万元）租户。但他们不会享受相同的待遇，甚至不会共用同样的大楼入口。
The so-called poor door has brought an outcry, with numerous officials now demanding an end to the strategy. But the question of how to best incorporate affordable units into projects built for the rich has become more relevant than ever as Mayor Bill de Blasio seeks the construction of 80,000 new affordable units over the next 10 years.
这所谓的“寒门”(poor door)现象，已经引发了强烈的抗议，现在有不计其数的官员要求终止这项措施。但是，如何把保障性住房最完美地并入那些为富人建造的地产项目之中，这个问题已经变得比以往任何时候都更令人关切，因为白思豪市长(Mayor Bill de Blasio)打算在未来十年内新建8万套保障性住房。
The answer is not a simple one. As public housing becomes a crumbling relic of another era, American cities have grown more reliant on the private sector to build housing for the poor and working class. Developers say they can maximize their revenues, and thus build more affordable units, by separating them from their luxury counterparts.
要回答这个问题并不简单。随着公共住房变成了另一个时代正在土崩瓦解的遗迹，美国一些城市越来越依赖私营企业来为穷人和工薪阶层修建住宅。开发商们说，通过将保障性住房与他们建造的豪华公寓分隔开来，他们能使年收入达到最大化，从而可以建造更多的保障房。
Even advocates of affordable housing are divided on the issue; some argue that developers who segregate apartments should not benefit from government incentives, while others say the focus should be on building more homes, rather than where to enter them.
在这个问题上，即使是保障性住房的拥护者们也一分为二；一些人辩称，那些将公寓按贫富隔离的开发商们不应享受政府的激励政策；另一些人则说，重点应该在于建造出更多的住房，而不是大门建在哪里。
“There are trade-offs,” said Lisa Sturtevant, vice president for research at the National Housing Conference, an affordable housing advocacy group in Washington. “It’s really important that there’s no discrimination, but there’s a balance between what we can do and should do.”
“这是个有得有失的事，”在华盛顿市一家拥护保障性住房的组织——国家住房联合会(National Housing Conference)负责研究工作的副会长丽莎·斯特蒂文特(Lisa Sturtevant)说，“不能有歧视，这一点的确很重要，但我们能做什么与我们该做什么，这两者间有个平衡的问题。”
Administration officials attribute the two-door setup to changes to the zoning code in 2009 that Mr. de Blasio voted for as a member of the City Council. He has said that the revisions, which allowed builders to put the affordable apartments in an attached segment of the building, were meant to increase housing units, and that “it was not evident at the time the nuances of where the doors would be.”
政府官员们把这种一楼双门的现象，归咎于2009年白思豪市长作为市议会的一名成员，投票赞成的区划法中的一些变更措施。他曾说过，这项允许建筑商们把保障性住房建设成为附属楼盘的修正条例，本意旨在增加住房单元的数量，而且“那时候，那些大门会开设在什么地方，其中的细微差异并不明显。”
Developers say the configuration of one building with an attached affordable segment works better when the market-rate units are for sale, as in the case of condos. If that is the choice, the developer is required to provide two separate entrances under the current rules of the program.
开发商们说，当商品房以共管公寓的定位进入市场销售时，采用一栋公寓楼附带一栋保障性住宅楼的建筑组合形式，效果会更好。若是在这种选择下，那么开发商依据一个现行的政府计划的规则，就必须分别提供两个不同入口了。
But Alicia Glen, the deputy mayor for housing and economic development, said that separate front doors were not in keeping with the administration’s principles of equality, and that the city was working to change the rules to prohibit them.
但是，分管住房与经济发展工作的副市长艾丽西亚·格伦(Alicia Glen)说，这种正门分开的做法与政府提倡的平等原则并不一致，而且纽约市已经在修改规则以便禁止这样做了。
“Walking into a building should not be any different based on income status,” Ms. Glen said in an interview.
“从何处走入一栋大楼，不应根据收入水平的不同而存在任何差异。”格伦在一次访谈中提到。
From the street, the luxury condominium tower in the middle of the debate, at 40 Riverside Boulevard, and its six-floor affordable segment seem to blend seamlessly and appear as one structure. But the lower-income renters, who will pay $850 a month for one-bedroom apartments and $1,100 for two bedrooms, according to the developer, will go through a door facing 62nd Street while the condo owners will come in through a door facing the Hudson.
从大街上看，滨河大道40号(40 Riverside Boulevard)这栋处于争议之中的豪华共管公寓大厦，和它那作为保障性住房的六层附楼，结合得天衣无缝，看上去就像是一栋大楼。但根据开发商的说法，那些支付850美元（约合人民币5222元）租赁一居室公寓和交1100美元（约合人民币6758元）租赁两居室公寓的低收入租户们，会从面对62街的那道门出入；而共管公寓的业主们则会由面对哈德逊河的那道门进出。
New York and other cities use a variety of tax breaks, subsidies and additional incentives to encourage developers to build affordable housing. In the case of 40 Riverside, the developer, Extell Development Company, is using a program called inclusionary housing, which allows it to build more square feet than the zoning code would otherwise allow in exchange for a certain number of lower-rent apartments. Those additional square feet can be used at 40 Riverside, but Extell plans to transfer them to another project, which the law allows.
纽约市和其它一些城市用税收减免、补贴政策和其它各种各样的激励措施，来鼓励开发商们修建保障性住房。在滨河大道40号的例子中，开发商Extell开发公司(Extell Development Company)所借助的是一个名为“包容性分区住房”(inclusionary housing)的项目，允许开发商的项目实际占地超过区划法所允许的建筑面积，以换取一定数量的低租金公寓。那些增加的建筑面积，可用于滨河大道40号这栋大楼，但Extell公司计划将其转至其它项目下。这也是法律允许的做法。
The affordable units do not have to be in the same location, as long as they are within the same community district or, if in another district, no farther than half a mile away.
有待配建的保障性住房，不一定都要建在同一位置上，只要在相同社区内——或者，如在其它区域的话，之间相距不超过1英里（约合1.6公里）就可以。
Gary Barnett, who is Extell’s founder and president, said that having the affordable apartments incorporated into the condominium tower would have meant “giving away” the most valuable units.
Extell公司的创始人兼总裁加里·巴内特(Gary Barnett)说，让保障性住房并入这栋共管公寓楼中，就意味着“牺牲掉”其中那些最有价值的单元。
“We wouldn’t be able to do affordable,” he said. “It wouldn’t make any financial sense.”
“我们原本是无法建造保障性住房的，”他说，“这样做在财务上没有任何意义。”
New York has always been an economically diverse city, with everyday people rubbing shoulders with millionaires and Bohemian artists on the streets. But the poor-doors image taps into the anxiety of many New Yorkers that the city is becoming livable only for the wealthy.
纽约市一直是座经济多元化的城市，人们每天走在大街上，身边擦肩而过的既有百万富翁，也有波西米亚艺术家。但是“寒门”现象的出现，触及了许多纽约人的焦虑。他们担心这座城市正在变得只适合有钱人居住。
At the Edge Community Apartments, the affordable housing building that abuts the Edge, a glassy condo tower on the Brooklyn waterfront in Williamsburg, renters also have their own entrance, a few doors from that of the condos. Only one entrance offers a doorman, concierge and valet, but some renters said what they resented was not being able to use some of the condo tower’s amenities.
在威廉斯堡地区，布鲁克林水滨一栋玻璃幕墙的共管公寓楼Edge大厦，紧邻着一栋保障性住宅楼Edge Community Apartments，其中的租户们也有自己单独的入口，与旁边那栋共管公寓大厦的入口，还隔了几扇门。只有其中一个入口配有一名身兼门童、迎宾和泊车服务的员工，但是租客们说，他们租住的地方一直不能使用那栋共管大厦内的便利设施。
“We can’t even use the pool or the gym,” said one renter, a 34-year-old bank employee who wanted to remain anonymous for fear of jeopardizing her one-bedroom rental. “I’ve asked and offered to pay. It’s kind of messed up.”
“我们连游泳池和健身馆都不能用，”一位租客说，这位34岁的银行雇员担心，接受采访会影响她那套一居室公寓的租赁，因此不肯透露姓名。“我去问过了，也提出我愿意付钱。可是没什么结果。”
But she and other tenants said they considered themselves lucky to have landed an apartment in the area, where everyone, rich or poor, steps out to views of the East River and Manhattan skyline and the cool energy of Williamsburg.
但她与其他租客都说，能够住进这片地区的一套公寓里，他们都觉得自己很幸运，这里不管是穷人还是富人，一走出来就能看见东河(East River)的景色，欣赏曼哈顿的天际线，感受到威廉斯堡的活力。
“Living here is a privilege,” said Victoriano Oviedo, 59, a retiree who has a studio subsidized with a federal rental voucher. “Over there you have powerful people. Over here you have low-income people. I’m fine with that.”
“住在这里有一种优越感，”今年59岁已经退休的维多利亚诺·奥维耶多(Victoriano Oviedo)说，他有一套享受联邦租赁优惠券补贴的单间公寓。“那边住的都是有钱有势的人，这边住的都是低收入人群。我觉得没什么。”
Aside from square-footage bonuses, residential developments like the Edge and 40 Riverside can take advantage of affordable-housing tax breaks, which some advocates argue should not be available for projects that do not fully integrate affordable units.
除了有建筑面积上的奖励，如Edge和滨河大道40号之类的住宅开发项目，还可以利用保障性住宅的税收减免政策。但是有些拥护者指出，这项政策不应该提供给那些没有充分整合保障性住房的项目。
“If you do choose to live in segregated developments, don’t use my tax dollars to support that,” said Moses Gates, director of planning and community development for the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development.
“如果你真的选择住在贫富分隔的大楼里，那就不要用我交的税来支持那个项目，”社区营造与住宅开发协会(Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development)的住宅区规划与发展主任摩西·盖茨(Moses Gates)说。
But the repugnance is not universal. Among the roughly 500 cities with inclusionary zoning programs, housing supporters have been mostly focused on having the affordable units built close to the their market-rate counterparts so that low-income households share some of the benefits of wealthier neighborhoods, like good schools and public safety.
但是，这样的抵触并不是普遍现象。在实施“包容性分区住房”计划的大约500座城市中，住房供给的支持者们更在意的是，确保保障性住房修建在靠近该项目商品房楼盘的地方，以便让那些低收入家庭能够分享他们富有的邻居们所享受的利益，例如优质的学校与安全的环境。
“It’s so important to build as much affordable housing as possible, and you always have to compromise,” said Carol Lamberg, co-chairwoman of the New York Housing Conference, an affordable housing coalition. “I just think the need is so great, you don’t need a fancy lobby.”
“尽可能多地建造保障性住房是非常重要的，所以你总是不得不妥协，”一个保障性住房联盟——纽约市住房大会(New York Housing Conference)的联合主席卡罗尔·兰伯格(Carol Lamberg)说。“我只是觉得这类需求太旺盛了，而你并不需要一间奢华的大堂。”
The controversy over separate entrances may pit Mr. de Blasio’s social justice values against his need for private development, but the inclusionary program that caused it is voluntary and accounts for only a fraction of new affordable units that are built. Since 2005, city officials said, it has generated about 5,000 affordable units.
这场关于大门是否应该分而设之的争论，可能会让白思豪市长的社会正义价值观与其对私营开发项目的需求背道而驰。但是，引起该问题的这项“包容性分区住房”计划是自愿性质的，而且仅有部分新的保障性住房据此而建。据纽约市政府的官员说，自2005年以来，这项计划已使大约5000套保障性住房问世。
Administration officials are preparing to start a mandatory version of the program, to force developers of large buildings to take the deal if they want to build at all, with its own rules about how to incorporate affordable units. The administration is seeking to eliminate the use of separate entrances in both the mandatory and voluntary programs.
政府官员们正着手准备实施该计划的强制版本，迫使大型建筑的开发商们只要想动工，就得接受这笔交易。至于怎样将保障房纳入项目，该计划也将有自己的规则。无论在这项计划的自愿版本还是强制版本中，政府部门都会禁止采用分设大楼入口的设计。