With all the debate over immigration in the United States and Europe, one group of immigrants is getting a red-carpet welcome around the world: millionaires.
当移民问题在美国和欧洲引发激烈讨论的时候，有一个移民群体正在全世界享受贵宾级待遇，那就是百万富豪。
Last year, a record 82,000 millionaires moved to another country, according to a new study. While their numbers are a small fraction of the world’s migratory population, and of the world’s millionaires, wealthy people are being courted and cosseted by host countries like never before.
一项新研究显示，去年共有创纪录的8.2万名百万富豪迁居他国。相较于世界上的移民人口数量，他们的人数只是九牛一毛，但富人正受到东道国史无前例的追捧和欢迎。
The growing contrast between migrants who are poor and those who are wealthy reveals a less-noticed form of global inequality, as well as an acceleration of a new culture of the rootless, borderless rich.
贫穷移民和富有移民之间的反差日益增强，揭示了一种不那么引人注目的全球不平等，以及一种无定所无国界富人文化的崛起。
“The wealthy today don’t have a country,” said Reaz H. Jafri, a New York-based partner at Withers Worldwide, a law firm that helps wealthy clients move and relocate around the world. “They don’t view their success as being related or dependent on a single country, but on their own business strategies. It’s amazing to me how many of the very wealthy are going totally mobile.”
“当今的富人不属于哪个国家，”卫达仕律师事务所(Withers Worldwide)驻纽约的合伙人里亚兹·H·贾夫里(Reaz H.Jafri)说。该律所的一项业务是帮助富有客户在世界范围内移民和迁居。“他们认为自己的成功并非关乎或取决于某一个国家，而是关乎或取决于他们的商业战略。具有完全流动性的大富翁如此之多，让我觉得不可思议。”
The rich have always been a restless class, of course, moving with the seasons or the social circuit. But the current wave of millionaire migrations seems to have reached a new level, with wealthy families changing citizenship, sending their children overseas or moving permanently to the nation of their choice.
诚然，富人一直是一个不安分的阶层，他们会因季节的流转或社交圈的变化而迁居。但当前的百万富豪移民浪潮似乎达到了一个新层面，富有的家庭会改变国籍，把子女送到海外，或者永久移居至他们青睐的国家。
Rather than fleeing economic ruin or conflict, millionaire migrants are shopping the world for the best schools, financial safety and lifestyle. Technology, coupled with the rise of global markets and global investors, has given rise to multinational millionaires who increasingly have no nation.
百万富豪并非逃离经济崩溃或冲突，而是在世界范围内购买最佳教育服务、财务安全性和生活方式。科技进步再加上全球市场以及全球投资者的崛起，催生出了许多跨国富豪，他们越来越不属于哪个国家。
According to New World Wealth, a market research firm based in Johannesburg, South Africa, the number of millionaires moving to another country jumped 28 percent in 2016 from the previous year, reaching the highest level the firm has found in its four years of measuring. Millionaire migration has grown 60 percent since 2013, the firm’s findings show, and there are no signs that it is slowing.
根据南非约翰内斯堡市场调研公司新世界财富(New World Wealth)的数据，在2016年移居他国的百万富豪人数同比跃升28%，创下该公司做过估算的四年中的最高水平。该公司的调研结果显示，自从2013年以来，百万富豪移民他国的人数增长了60%，而且目前还没有慢下来的迹象。
Andrew Amoils, head of research at New World Wealth, said he expected the ranks of millionaires on the move to top 100,000 within the next two to three years.
新世界财富的研究主管安德鲁·阿莫伊斯(Andrew Amoils)说，他预计在未来两三年中，每年会有超过10万人加入移居他国的百万富豪行列。
That’s still a small slice of the estimated 13.6 million millionaires around the world, defined as those having at least $1 million in assets (minus liabilities), not including their primary residence.
与百万富豪总人数相比，这仍然只是一小部分。据估计，全世界共有1360万名百万富豪，也就是剔除主要居所后，资产（减去负债）不少于100万美元的人。
New World Wealth’s data includes only millionaires who have physically moved to a country for a period of at least six months. It uses surveys, real-estate data and research with relocation firms and other specialists for its estimates.
新世界财富的数据只涉及那些真正移居某个国家，在那里待上至少六个月的百万富豪。它是借助调查、房地产数据以及对迁居公司和其他专业人士的调研来估算的。
Add to those numbers the wealthy who have changed or added citizenships, those who spend part of their time in various countries or own homes in multiple nations, and the numbers grow much larger.
除了变更或申请了更多国籍的富人，还有另外一些富人会在不同国家里，或者在位于不同国家的家中分别待上一段时间，后者的人数远远为多。
“We looked at the people who truly moved,” Mr. Amoils said. “But the universe of multinational wealth is obviously much larger.”
“我们关注的是真正移居的人，”阿莫伊斯说。“但跨国富豪群体的世界显然要大得多。”
The map of migration is also changing rapidly. Australia is now the world’s top destination for millionaires, beating the United States for the second straight year, according to New World Wealth. An estimated 11,000 millionaires moved to Australia in 2016, compared with the 10,000 who moved to the United States.
移民路线图也正快速变更。新世界财富称，澳大利亚目前是世界上最受百万富豪青睐的移民目的地，这是它连续第二年击败美国。据估计，在2016年有1.1万名百万富豪移居澳大利亚，移居美国的则是1万人。
Canada ranked third, with 8,000, followed by the United Arab Emirates and New Zealand.
加拿大以8000人位列第三。紧随其后的是阿联酋和新西兰。
As for countries that millionaires are fleeing, France tops the list, with 12,000 moving out during 2016. China ranked second, with 9,000, followed by Brazil, India and Turkey.
至于百万富豪正在逃离的国家，位列榜首的是法国，在2016年共有1.2万名法国富豪移民海外。中国以9000人排名第二，接下来是巴西、印度和土耳其。
Mr. Amoils said Australia was especially attractive to Chinese millionaires, given its relative proximity, its wide choice of private schools, its clean environment and its political and economic stability. Australia, like many countries, has also created money-for-visa programs to make it easier for rich immigrants to move in and become citizens.
阿莫伊斯说，澳大利亚对中国百万富豪尤具吸引力，因为它相对较近，有众多私立学校可供选择，环境清洁，政治经济状况也稳定。像很多国家一样，澳大利亚也启动了一些“以金钱换签证”的计划，方便富有移民移居本国并变成本国公民。
In 2012, the country introduced a “golden-ticket” investor visa program that fast-tracks and eases the residency requirement for a permanent visa. Millionaires need to invest 5 million Australian dollars (about $3.8 million) to qualify for the program, officially called the Special Investor Visa. Since its creation, more than 1,300 foreigners, nearly 90 percent of them from China, have used the program, according to government statistics.
2012年，澳大利亚推出“金奖券”(golden ticket) 投资者签证计划，开通获得永久签证的快速通道，放宽相关居留要求。富豪们需要投资500万澳元（约合380万美元），才有资格参与该计划，其官方名称为“重要投资者签证”(Special Investor Visa)。据澳大利亚政府统计，自该计划出炉以来，已有1300名外国人参与，其中将近90%来自中国。
The government also has an investor visa program that allows people to invest 1 million Australian dollars (about $770,000). That option comes with more restrictions, and it takes longer to get a permanent visa.
澳大利亚政府还有一个让人投资100万澳元（约合77万美元）的投资者签证计划。但它限制多多，获得永久签证所需的时间也更长。
The other two top destinations, Canada and the United States, also have generous visa programs for the wealthy. America’s EB-5 program requires a $500,000 investment, although there are proposals in Congress to raise that figure — which hasn’t changed in 27 years — to over $1 million.
作为另外两个最受欢迎的目的地，加拿大和美国也面向富人推出了慷慨的签证计划。美国EB-5计划的投资额下限为50万美元，不过有国会议员提议把27年来都没变过的这一额度提高至100万美元以上。
Canada scrapped one of its main investor-visa programs in 2014, but there are other programs available for wealthy foreigners. The number of 10-year visas issued to Chinese citizens more than quadrupled between 2012 and 2015, to 337,000.
加拿大在2014年取消了本国的一个颇为重要的投资者签证计划，但还有其他计划可供富有的外国人选择。2012至2015年间，发放给中国公民的十年期签证数量增加了三倍还多，达到33.7万份。
Mr. Amoils said the main reason millionaires are leaving China is to educate their children in Western or Australian schools that will give them a better education and connections for their careers.
阿莫伊斯说，富豪离开中国的重要原因是让子女到西方或澳大利亚的学校念书，从而获得更好的教育，以及有利于职业发展的人脉关系。
A 2014 report from Hurun, a research firm in Shanghai that tracks the wealthy, found that 64 percent of Chinese millionaires were considering or were in the process of moving, with education topping the list of reasons.
上海追踪富人财富状况的胡润研究院于2014发布报告称，当时64%的中国百万富豪正考虑移民或正处于移民过程中，促使他们这样做的首要因素是教育。
Mr. Jafri of Withers Worldwide said that personal safety goes hand in hand with education for many of the world’s millionaires when considering a move. Many of his clients are Latin Americans seeking a haven from kidnapping and crime. “My clients say, ‘In New York, I can walk my daughter to Brearley, while in Buenos Aires we have to get into an armored car,’ ” Mr. Jafri said.
卫达仕律师事务所的贾夫里说，对世界上的很多富豪来说，考虑移民时，人身安全是和教育并驾齐驱的因素。他的很多拉美客户都在追寻没有绑架和犯罪的避风港。“我的客户说，‘在纽约，我可以走路送女儿去布莱丽(Brearley)上学，但在布宜诺斯艾利斯，我们必须坐在一辆装甲车里，’”贾夫里说。
The flight of French wealth is driven by different worries. Mr. Amoils said millionaires leaving France cite religious tension and personal safety as their main reasons. While France’s high taxes on wealth are a factor, he and others said that social and political forces are more important.
驱使法国富人逃离的则是不同的担忧。阿莫伊斯说，离开法国的百万富豪给出的理由主要涉及紧张的宗教氛围和人身安全。虽然法国对富人征收重税也是一个原因，但他和另外一些人表示，社会和政治因素更为重要。
“For them, it’s often about the changing culture of France,” Mr. Amoils said.
“对他们来说，往往是因为法国文化正在改变，”阿莫伊斯说。
Indeed, immigration experts say the biggest long-term shift in the reasons the wealthy migrate is the waning importance of taxes. For decades, the rich sought tax havens like Monaco, Switzerland or the Caymans to maximize their wealth. Now they seek stable countries with financial systems that can protect their fortunes, even if income taxes are high.
移民专家说，事实上，在富人移民的原因方面，最大的长期变化就是税收的重要性日益减弱。为了实现财富最大化，富人曾在数十年间追寻摩纳哥、瑞士、开曼群岛之类的避税港湾。现在他们追寻的则是稳定的国家，要有能够保护其财富的金融体系，个人所得税高一些也不打紧。
And while President Trump’s immigration policies have had little impact on wealthy immigrants thus far, Mr. Jafri worries that they could shut out future entrepreneurs and talent.
此外，虽然特朗普的移民政策目前尚未对富人移民造成什么影响，但贾夫里担心，这些政策会导致未来的企业家和有才能的人被拒之门外。
“We are letting in today’s millionaires,” Mr. Jafri said. “But what about tomorrow’s?”
“我们正让今天的百万富翁进门，”贾夫里说，“但明天的百万富翁呢？”