Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential campaign is based on the assumption that voters are angrier at the rich than they are at the poor.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的总统竞选建立在这样一个假设之上：选民对富人的愤怒之情，比对穷人更加强烈。
Her strategy poses a dilemma for Democrats, who are arguing among themselves about whether targeting the rich is an approach that will work.
她的策略使民主党人陷入了困境。民主党正在内部争论，把目标对准富人的做法是否会奏效。
Robert Jones, C.E.O. of the Public Religion Research Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, points out that there is “an open opportunity for the party that strongly gets behind a set of policies that demonstrate that government has their back and is a force for ensuring that hard work pays off.”
无党派智库公共宗教研究所（Public Religion Research Institute，简称PRRI）首席执行官罗伯特·琼斯(Robert Jones)指出，“现在有个机会摆在民主党面前，可以对一系列政策表示大力支持，表明政府会充当他们的后盾，而且是一股保证努力工作就能得到回报的力量。”
But the problem for a party seeking to exploit working- and middle-class anxiety, he continued in an email exchange, is that many voters “want a role for government that they are skeptical it can perform.”
但是，他在一封电子邮件中继续表示，对于一个希望能利用工薪阶层和中产阶级的焦虑情绪的政党而言，问题是许多选民“希望政府能扮演一个角色，同时他们又怀疑政府是否能成功扮演这一角色”。
Last month, Gallup released data delineating the trend from 1940 to 2015 in response to the question “Do you think our government should or should not redistribute wealth by heavy taxes on the rich?”
上个月，盖洛普(Gallup)发布了一些数据，描述了从1940年到2015年，人们在回答“你认为我们的政府应不应该通过提高对富人征税来重新分配财富”这个问题时的趋势。
Over the years, Americans have steadily moved to the left on this issue, from decisive opposition to taxing the rich, 54-35, to a much closer 51-45 in favor in 1999. By 2015, those who would tax the rich heavily had become the majority, at 52 percent (compared to 45 percent who would not).
这些年来，美国人对这个问题的态度出现稳步左倾。人们刚开始坚决反对向富人征税，反对者与赞成者的人数比例分别为54%和35%；1999年差距大幅度缩小后，变成51%和45%。截至2015年，那些支持对富人征收重税的人成了大多数，升至52%（反对者约占45%）。
A similar long-term study conducted by NBC/Wall Street Journal, which measured public opinion from 1995 to 2014, showed a parallel shift to the left. In 1995, Americans by a two to one margin believed that people were poor because they did not do enough to help themselves, as opposed to those who said poverty resulted from external causes (like plant closures, outsourcing, downsizing and foreign competition). By June 2014, the percentage that blamed poverty on outside forces had grown to 46 percent, two points higher than the 44 percent that blamed the failure on the poor themselves.
NBC和《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)进行了一项相似的长期研究，对1995年至2014年的公共意见进行了调查。调查结果同样显示人们的态度出现左倾。1995年，三分之二的美国人都认为，有的人之所以贫穷，是因为他们没有为改善自己的处境做出足够的努力，这种态度与那些把贫穷归咎于外部原因（比如工厂关门、外包、裁员和外来竞争）的看法截然相反。到2014年6月，认为贫穷出于外部原因的人数比例增至46%，比44%认为穷人错在自身的人数比例高了两个百分点。
More recently, the NBC/W.S.J. poll found a significant increase from 2010 to 2015 in the share of voters who describe themselves as liberal and an accompanying decline in the percentage who say they are conservative.
最近，NBC和《华尔街日报》的民意调查显示，从2010年到2015年，称自己属于自由派的选民比例大幅增加，表示自己为保守派的人则在不断减少。
Over those six years, the conservative advantage has fallen from to 7 points from 17. In January, Gallup reported comparable findings.
这六年间，保守派的优势已经从17个百分点降至7个百分点。盖洛普在一月的报告有类似的发现。
An additional Gallup trend analysis shows that from 2001 to 2014 discontent over prospects for economic advancement has grown sharply. In 2001, the survey found that 76 percent were satisfied “with Americans’ opportunities to get ahead by working hard” and 22 percent were dissatisfied – a 54 percentage point spread. By 2014, the spread had narrowed to just nine points, 54 to 45.
盖洛普的另一个趋势分析表明，从2001年到2014年，人们对经济增长前景的不满情绪显著增加。2001年，调查发现，76%的人都满意“美国通过努力工作来赶超别人的机会”，还有22%的人表示不满——差距为54个百分点。到2014年，差距缩小到仅仅9个百分点，人数比例分别为54%和45%。
While these surveys lend support to the idea that Democratic strategy should focus on anger at the rich, they also reveal voters’ longstanding ambivalence. Even as Americans are receptive to raising taxes for the wealthy, voters remain open to demonizing the poor, especially those who are viewed as dependent on government benefits.
这些调查支持了民主党应关注人们对富人的愤怒之情的想法，但它们也透露了选民长期存在的矛盾心理。虽然美国人接受提高对富人征税的做法，选民仍然乐于将穷人妖魔化，尤其是那些被认为在依靠政府福利生活的人。
In a 2012 survey, the Public Religion Research Institute asked “Are most people who receive welfare payments genuinely in need of help or are they taking advantage of the system?”
PRRI曾在2012年的一次调查中提出这样一个问题：“接受福利津贴的大多数人是真的需要帮助，还是在占制度的便宜？”
The large sample, 3,003 people, was split, 44 percent choosing “in need,” 46 percent saying “taking advantage.” Hispanics, a key Democratic constituency, were among those most critical of welfare recipients, describing beneficiaries as “taking advantage of the system” by 52 to 39, close to the 53 to 35 split among members of the white working class. Independent voters were critical of beneficiaries’ motives by 49 to 41.
调查样本较大，共有3003人，结果分成两派：44%的人选择了“需要帮助”，46%的人称他们在“占便宜”。作为民主党关键支持者的西语裔，对福利受益者的批判态度尤为强烈，他们中对受益者“占制度便宜”的说法持支持和反对态度的人分别占52%和39%。在白人工薪阶层中，持这两种观点的人分别为53%和35%。这两个群体差异不大。在独立选民中，双方所占比例分别为49%和41%。
Two years later, in 2014, P.R.R.I. asked if voters thought discrimination against whites had become as big a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities. 45 percent of all voters said yes; among white respondents, 52 percent held this view.
两年后的2014年，PRRI又提出问题：对白人的歧视是否已经与对黑人和其他少数群体的歧视一样严重？所有选民中45%的人都持肯定态度，白人受访者中有52%的人持这种观点。
While Clinton is concentrating on tapping into the anger of voters over the advantages flowing to the affluent, she will have trouble convincing many voters that she is not a dyed-in-the-wool member of that class.
克林顿主要是在利用选民对利益流向富人阶层的愤怒，但她将很难说服很多选民，她并不是这个阶层中如假包换的一员。
First and foremost, voters everywhere know that she and her husband are extremely rich.
首先，哪里的选民都知道，她和她的丈夫非常富有。
The Clintons’ net worth is somewhere between $11.3 million and $52.7 million, according to public disclosure statements filed earlier this year — and that’s not including the value of their homes in Washington and New York, estimated to be worth $9.3 million, or the more than $16 million Bill Clinton has received since 2001 for pension, office and security expenses from the federal government under the Former Presidents Act of 1958.
今年早些时候公之于众的声明显示，克林顿夫妇的资产净值在1130万美元（约合7018万元人民币）到5270万美元之间——其中还不包括他们在华盛顿和纽约的房产的价值（预计价值为930万美元），或者比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)从2001年起根据1958年《卸任总统法案》(Former Presidents Act)而从联邦政府获得的逾1600万美元的养老金、办公室和安全费用。
Both National Journal and The Wall Street Journal estimate that the couple belong in “the top 1 percent of the top 1 percent.”
《国家期刊》(National Journal)和《华尔街日报》都估计，克林顿夫妇属于“最富有的1%的人中最富有的1%”。
In a television interview last year, Hillary Clinton famously said that in 2001, “we came out of the White House not only dead broke, but in debt.” That same year, when Hillary Clinton first took office in the Senate, the Clintons reported an actual total income of $16.2 million, according to their public disclosure report.
去年，希拉里·克林顿在一次电视采访中发表了一段著名言论。她说，2001年，“我们从白宫出来时，不仅身无分文，而且还欠债。”同年，当希拉里·克林顿首次加入参议院时，根据克林顿夫妇公开披露的报告，他们称自己的实际总收入为1620万美元。
While a critic of tax breaks for the financial sector, Clinton has herself been the recipient of extensive Wall Street campaign support. In 2000, during her first Senate campaign, her second largest source of campaign money was from the finance industry, according to Opensecrets. In 2008, when she ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination, these same interests contributed $11.49 million — second only to lawyers.
在批判金融领域的税收优惠政策同时，克林顿自己也得到华尔街的大量竞选资金支持。据Opensecrets统计，2000年首次参议院竞选期间，她的第二大竞选资金来源就是金融行业。2008年，她竞选民主党总统提名人未获成功，当时同样的利益集团贡献了1149万美元——仅次于律师群体。
Included in the $25 million in speaking fees Bill and Hillary Clinton have received since Jan. 1, 2014, is a large chunk from the finance industry: $500,000 from the Bank of America in London; $225,000 from UBS Wealth Management; $270,000 from Deutsche Bank AG, Boston; $150,000 from the Canadian Bank of Imperial Commerce; and $280,000 from Deutsche Bank AG, New York.
克林顿夫妇自2014年1月1日至今收到的2500万美元演讲费中，有一大部分来自金融业：美国银行(Bank of America)伦敦分行的50万美元；瑞银财富管理(UBS Wealth Management)的22.5万美元；德意志银行波士顿分行(Deutsche Bank AG, Boston)的27万美元；加拿大帝国商业银行(Canadian Bank of Imperial Commerce)的15万美元；以及德意志银行纽约分行的28万美元。
With numbers like these as a backdrop, Hillary Clinton’s struggle will be to maintain credibility while she presses her I’m-just-one-of-you message.
有这样一些数字作背景，希拉里·克林顿面临的难题是如何让她的“我只是个老百姓”姿态显得可信。
But she’s trying.
但她在努力。
On June 13, in a speech she delivered on Roosevelt Island in New York, Clinton intensified the populist character of her campaign. She rallied those watching with notably progressive rhetoric:
6月13日在纽约罗斯福岛的一次演讲中，克林顿强化了她在竞选中的平民主义形象。她使用了明显的革新派措辞来调动观众的情绪：
“For the factory workers and food servers who stand on their feet all day. For the nurses who work the night shift. For the truckers who drive for hours and the farmers who feed us…. For everyone who’s ever been knocked down, but refused to be knocked out,” Clinton promised to restore “America’s basic bargain: If you do your part you ought to be able to get ahead.”
“为了一站就是一整天的工厂工人和餐馆服务员。为了上夜班的护士。为了连续开车几小时的卡车司机和为我们生产食物的农民……为了所有那些被击倒但未被击垮的人，”克林顿承诺要恢复“美国的基本约定：做好本职工作就可以出人头地”。
In a step that could potentially create a center-left majority (in the unlikely event such a policy could ever be enacted), Clinton called for automatic, universal voter registration. She also proposed passage of a constitutional amendment overturning the Supreme Court decision Citizens United (and related decisions) that have opened the door to unlimited contributions by the rich and have led to domination of political fundraising by what the Sunlight Foundation also calls the 1 percent of the 1 percent.
克林顿呼吁开展自动的、全民的选民登记，此举可能创造一个中左的多数阵营（一旦这样的政策得到实施的话，尽管可能性不大）。她还提议对宪法做出修订，推翻最高法院(Supreme Court)的联合公民(Citizens United)裁决（及其他相关裁决），该裁决打开了取消献金上限的大门，导致阳光基金会(Sunlight Foundation)所说的“百分之一中的百分之一”在政治捐款中占据绝对优势。
Clinton is currently running ahead of all her likely Republican opponents, according to RealClearPolitics, but not by much: 4.2 points ahead of Marco Rubio; 5.2 points over Jeb Bush; and 6.8 points over Scott Walker.
RealClearPolitics表示，目前，克林顿的呼声比她所有潜在的共和党竞争对手都高，但优势不是十分明显：她比马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)高4.2个百分点，比杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)高5.2个百分点，比斯科特·沃克(Scott Walker)高6.8个百分点。
These are not impressive numbers for a candidate with universal name recognition against candidates who are much less widely known.
她是一个拥有国际知名度的人物，她的对手则不那么有名，所以这些数据不算很出色。
Still, Clinton remains the odds-on favorite to win the Democratic nomination, and, as John F. Kennedy and Franklin Delano Roosevelt demonstrated, wealth is not a barrier to winning the presidency or to the pursuit of a liberal agenda.
不过，克林顿仍然是赢得民主党提名的热门人选，而且从约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)和富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)来看，财富并不是赢得总统竞选或追求自由主义议程的障碍。
The real issue for Clinton is her capacity to mobilize a coalition of upscale Democrats and angry, resentful, distrustful voters on the bottom rungs of the ladder.
克林顿面临的真正问题是她是否有能力调动高层民主党人，以及社会底层愤怒、不满和充满怀疑的选民。
Clinton entered the contest with both assets and liabilities on this front, and the Republican Party is doing all it can to make her liabilities politically fatal. According to Pollster, Clinton’s favorable-unfavorable ratings have dropped from 58.3 positive and 33.1 negative in December 2012 to 45.8 positive and 48.9 negative now.
从这个方面来看，克林顿在竞选中既存在优势，也存在问题。共和党正在极尽所能地让她的问题对她造成政治上的致命打击。根据Pollster提供的数据，对克林顿持好感和反感态度的人所占的比例分别从2012年12月的58.3%和33.1%变成了现在的45.8%和48.9%。
A May 28 Quinnipiac poll revealed some of her strengths and weaknesses. Perhaps most damaging, voters said, 53-39, that Clinton is “not honest and trustworthy.” Voters are split 48 to 47 on whether she “cares about the needs of voters like you.”
5月28日的Quinnipiac调查透露了她的一些优势和弱点。或许最具破坏性的就是，有53%的选民认为克林顿“不诚实、不值得信任”（另有39%的人对此表示反对）。对于她是否“关心像你这样的选民的需求”，持两种不同态度的选民分别占48%和47%。
Conversely, 62 percent of voters said Clinton had strong leadership qualities, substantially higher than any of the likely Republican candidates.
相反，62%的选民都表示克林顿拥有优秀的领导品质，这个比例比所有潜在的共和党候选人都高很多。
For all Clinton’s political liabilities, her basic claim that ordinary voters are being shoved aside is on target – as is her claim that corporations are “making record profits, with C.E.O.s making record pay, but your paychecks have barely budged,” and that “you see the top 25 hedge fund managers making more than all of America’s kindergarten teachers combined.”
尽管克林顿存在很多政治问题，但她认为普通选民受到忽视的基本论调可谓正中要害——她下面这个说法也是一样：企业“获得了前所未有的高利润，首席执行官们也得到了前所未有的高薪，但你的薪资却几乎没有变化”，以及“你看到前25%的对冲基金经理挣的钱比美国所有幼儿园老师加起来还多”。
Clinton hopes to capitalize on the reality documented by two political scientists, Martin Gilens of Princeton and Benjamin Page of Northwestern in their 2014 paper “Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens,” published in Perspectives on Politics, a journal of the American Political Science Association.
克林顿希望能对两位政治学者——普林斯顿大学(Princeton)的马丁·吉伦斯(Martin Gilens)和西北大学(Northwestern)的本杰明·佩奇(Benjamin Page)——在他们2014年的论文《美国政治的理论检测：精英、利益集团和普通公民》(Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens)中记载的现实加以利用。此文发表在美国政治科学协会(American Political Science Association)的杂志《政治视角》(Perspectives on Politics)上。
Gilens and Page write that while elites and business interests have substantial impact on government policy “average citizens and mass-based interest groups have little or no independent influence.”
吉伦斯和佩奇写道，精英和商业利益团体会对政府政策产生极大影响，“普通公民和基于大众的利益团体却没有太大的独立影响力。”
The authors continue:
这两名作者还写道：
In the United States, our findings indicate, the majority does not rule — at least not in the causal sense of actually determining policy outcomes. When a majority of citizens disagrees with economic elites or with organized interests, they generally lose.
我们的发现表明，在美国，处于统治地位的不是大多数人——至少从真正决定政策结果的因果关系来看是这样。当大多数公民与经济方面的精英阶层或有组织的利益团体意见相左时，他们往往会以失败告终。
Gilens and Page do not mince words: “Our analyses suggest that majorities of the American public actually have little influence over the policies our government adopts.” They argue that “if policy making is dominated by powerful business organizations and a small number of affluent Americans, then America’s claims to being a democratic society are seriously threatened.”
吉伦斯和佩奇毫不隐晦：“我们的分析表明，大多数美国公众其实对我们政府采纳的政策没有太大的影响力。”他们辩称，“如果政策的制定被有权势的商业组织和少数美国富人控制，那么美国作为民主社会的说法就会面临严重威胁。”