Robert Benmosche, the chief executive of the American International Group, said something stupid the other day. And we should be glad, because his comments help highlight an important but rarely discussed cost of extreme income inequality — namely, the rise of a small but powerful group of what can only be called sociopaths.
那天，美国国际集团(American International Group)首席执行官罗伯特·本默切(Robert Benmosche)说了傻话。但我们应该为此而高兴，因为他的话帮助我们把注意力集中到一个很重要却不常被提起的话题，即极端的收入不均的代价，也就是一小撮只能被称之为反社会者(sociopaths)的权势圈子的崛起。
For those who don’t recall, A.I.G. is a giant insurance company that played a crucial role in creating the global economic crisis, exploiting loopholes in financial regulation to sell vast numbers of debt guarantees that it had no way to honor. Five years ago, U.S. authorities, fearing that A.I.G.’s collapse might destabilize the whole financial system, stepped in with a huge bailout. But even the policy makers felt ill-used — for example, Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, later testified that no other episode in the crisis made him so angry.
提醒一下那些不记得的读者，美国国际集团是一家保险巨头，在制造全球金融危机上起过关键作用，这家公司利用金融监管中的各种漏洞，出售了海量的债务担保，但根本不可能兑现这些担保。五年前，由于担心美国国际集团的崩溃可能会动摇整个金融体系，美国政府介入，为其提供了一大笔紧急救援资金。但是，就连政策制定者们都感到被糟践了，比如美联储主席本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)，他后来在听证会上曾表示，在这场金融危机中，没有比那件事让他更生气的事情了。
And it got worse. For a time, A.I.G. was essentially a ward of the federal government, which owned the bulk of its stock, yet it continued paying large executive bonuses. There was, understandably, much public furor.
而且事情还在变坏。有段时间，美国国际集团可以算是处于美国联邦政府的保护之下，联邦政府持有该公司的绝大多数股权；但就在那种情况下，该公司仍继续给管理层发放高额奖金。不难理解，公众对此感到非常愤怒。
So here’s what Mr. Benmosche did in an interview with The Wall Street Journal: He compared the uproar over bonuses to lynchings in the Deep South — the real kind, involving murder — and declared that the bonus backlash was “just as bad and just as wrong.”
听听本默切先生在接受《华尔街日报》采访时对此怎么看吧：他把公众对高额奖金的哗然，比作在美国的南方腹地曾经发生过的白人对黑人的私刑，动真格的那种，杀死人的那种；他还声称，公众对发奖金的强烈反对，跟动用私刑“同样恶劣，同样错误”。
You may find it incredible that anyone would, even for an instant, consider this comparison appropriate. But there have actually been a series of stories like this. In 2010, for example, there was a comparable outburst from Stephen Schwarzman, the chairman of the Blackstone Group, one of the world’s largest private-equity firms. Speaking about proposals to close the carried-interest loophole — which allows executives at firms like Blackstone to pay only 15 percent taxes on much of their income — Mr. Schwarzman declared, “It’s a war; it’s like when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.”
你可能无法相信，天底下有任何人会认为这种比喻是恰当的，哪怕仅仅是一瞬间。然而事实上，类似的言论还真有不少。例如，2010年，全球最大私募股权公司之一的黑石集团(Blackstone Group)董事长斯蒂芬·施瓦茨曼(Stephen Schwarzman)，就曾有过可与之一比的发泄。在谈到用法律来弥补附带权益(carried-interest)这个漏洞的提案时，施瓦茨曼先生声称，“这是一场战争；就像1939年希特勒入侵波兰一样。” 附带权益允许像黑石集团这样的公司的高官们，对其大部分收入只付15%的税。
And you know that such publicly reported statements don’t come out of nowhere. Stuff like this is surely what the Masters of the Universe say to each other all the time, to nods of agreement and approval. It’s just that sometimes they forget that they’re not supposed to say such things where the rabble might learn about it.
而你知道，这些受到广泛报道的言辞，其实并不是空穴来风。这些话一定是在这些宇宙的主宰者们(Masters of the Universe)之间平时相互说的，得到彼此的点头赞赏和认可。只是有时候他们忘了，不该在老百姓面前说出这些来；这不，现在乌合之众们都知道了。
Also, notice what both men were defending: namely, their privileges. Mr. Schwarzman was outraged at the notion that he might be required to pay taxes just like the little people; Mr. Benmosche was, in effect, declaring that A.I.G. was entitled to public bailouts and that its executives shouldn’t be expected to make any sacrifice in return.
也请读者们注意一下，这两位先生在捍卫什么：他们在捍卫自己的特权。让施瓦茨曼先生生气的是，居然有人提议，他需要跟普通小人物一样赋税；本默切先生实质上是说，美国国际集团得到公众财政救援理所应当，人们不该指望公司高管做出任何牺牲以报答公众。
This is important. Sometimes the wealthy talk as if they were characters in “Atlas Shrugged,” demanding nothing more from society than that the moochers leave them alone. But these men were speaking for, not against, redistribution — redistribution from the 99 percent to people like them. This isn’t libertarianism; it’s a demand for special treatment. It’s not Ayn Rand; it’s ancien régime.
这很重要。有时候有钱人说话，就跟《阿特拉斯耸耸肩》(Atlas Shrugged)中的角色一模一样，他们不需要从社会得到任何东西，只要求吃白食的人别打扰他们。但是，这些人从来都是支持、而不是反对财富再分配的，只不过他们的再分配，是从99%的人那里拿来，给像他们这样的人。这不是自由意志主义(libertarianism)；这是在要求特殊待遇。这不是安·兰德(Ayn Rand)思想；这是旧制度（ancien régime，指被法国大革命推翻的制度——译注）。
Sometimes, in fact, members of the 0.01 percent are explicit about their sense of entitlement. It was kind of refreshing, in a way, when Charles Munger, the billionaire vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, declared that we should “thank God” for the bailout of Wall Street, but that ordinary Americans in financial distress should just “suck it in and cope.” Incidentally, in another interview — conducted at his seaside villa in Dubrovnik, Croatia — Mr. Benmosche declared that the retirement age should go up to 70 or even 80.
事实上，有时候，社会最上层那0.01%的成员们很直率地表达自己的特权意识。从某种意义上来说，他们的言论也有点让人耳目一新。比如，伯克希尔·哈撒韦公司(Berkshire Hathaway)副董事长、亿万富豪查理·芒格(Charles Munger)宣称，我们应该“感谢上帝”，因为政府出手救援了华尔街，不过，因金融危机而陷入财务困境的普通美国老百姓则应该“勒紧裤带，自想办法”。顺便说一句，本默切先生曾在另一次采访中声称，退休年龄应该提高到70岁甚至80岁，而这次采访是在他位于克罗地亚古城杜布罗夫尼克(Dubrovnik, Croatia)的海滨别墅进行的。
The thing is, by and large, the wealthy have gotten their wish. Wall Street was bailed out, while workers and homeowners weren’t. Our so-called recovery has done nothing much for ordinary workers, but incomes at the top have soared, with almost all the gains from 2009 to 2012 going to the top 1 percent, and almost a third going to the top 0.01 percent — that is, people with incomes over $10 million.
问题在于，有钱人总的来说已经得到了他们想要的。华尔街得到了救援，而普通劳动者和小房产主们什么都没得到。我们所谓的复苏没给普通劳动者带来任何好处，而上层人士的收入却在飙升：从2009年到2012年，几乎所有社会收入增长的部分都流向了占总人口1%的富人，其中的三分之一则流向了占总人口0.01%的最富有者——也就是年收入超过1000万美元的人。
So why the anger? Why the whining? And bear in mind that claims that the wealthy are being persecuted aren’t just coming from a few loudmouths. They’ve been all over the op-ed pages and were, in fact, a central theme of the Romney campaign last year.
那他们为什么还怒火中烧、牢骚满腹呢？别忘了，声称有钱人正遭到迫害的不只是几个满嘴跑火车的家伙。这种论调在报纸的评论栏目比比皆是。它实际上还是罗姆尼(Romney)去年竞选时的中心议题。
Well, I have a theory. When you have that much money, what is it you’re trying to buy by making even more? You already have the multiple big houses, the servants, the private jet. What you really want now is adulation; you want the world to bow before your success. And so the thought that people in the media, in Congress, and even in the White House are saying critical things about people like you drives you wild.
对此，我倒是有个想法。当你有了那么多钱以后，还想通过赚更多的钱设法去买点什么呢？你已经有了好多栋豪宅，还有仆人和私人飞机。你现在真正想要的是赞美之词；你希望整个世界在你的成功面前毕恭毕敬。所以，每当想到媒体、国会甚至白宫里有人在批评你的时候，你就发疯了。
It is, of course, incredibly petty. But money brings power, and thanks to surging inequality, these petty people have a lot of money. So their whining, their anger that they don’t receive universal deference, can have real political consequences. Fear the wrath of the .01 percent!
这显然太小气了。然而，金钱能带来权力，由于收入不均越来越严重，这些狭隘的人有大笔的金钱。所以，当他们因为没得到普遍尊重而牢骚满腹、怒火中烧时，其牢骚和怒火能产生真正的政治后果。惧怕占社会0.01%的那些人的盛怒吧！