As inequality has become an increasingly prominent issue in American discourse, there has been furious pushback from the right. Some conservatives argue that focusing on inequality is unwise, that taxing high incomes will cripple economic growth. Some argue that it’s unfair, that people should be allowed to keep what they earn. And some argue that it’s un-American — that we’ve always celebrated those who achieve wealth, and that it violates our national tradition to suggest that some people control too large a share of the wealth.
随着贫富不均问题成为美国话语中的一个日益突出的议题，右翼人士一直在疯狂抵制。一些保守人士辩称，集中精力解决贫富不均问题并不明智，对高收入征税会阻碍经济增长。有些人认为这样做不公平，他们认为，应该允许人们保留自己的劳动所得。还有人认为，这违背了美国精神——我们一直尊重能够获得财富的人们，如果认为某些人所拥有的财富太多了，那就有悖于我国的传统。
And they’re right. No true American would say this: “The absence of effective State, and, especially, national, restraint upon unfair money-getting has tended to create a small class of enormously wealthy and economically powerful men, whose chief object is to hold and increase their power,” and follow that statement with a call for “a graduated inheritance tax on big fortunes ... increasing rapidly in amount with the size of the estate.” 
他们说的没错。没有哪个真正的美国人会说，“如果各州和国家对不公正的财富获得方式缺乏有效的限制措施，就会催生一个由超级富豪和经济力量强大的人士组成的少数阶层，这群人的主要目标是保持和扩大自己的权力，”然后呼吁，“对富人征收累进遗产税……随着遗产规模的上升，税额会大幅上升”。
Who was this left-winger? Theodore Roosevelt, in his famous 1910 New Nationalism speech.
这个左翼人士是谁？西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)。这些话来自他1910年著名的新国家主义演讲。
The truth is that, in the early 20th century, many leading Americans warned about the dangers of extreme wealth concentration, and urged that tax policy be used to limit the growth of great fortunes. Here’s another example: In 1919, the great economist Irving Fisher — whose theory of “debt deflation,” by the way, is essential in understanding our current economic troubles — devoted his presidential address to the American Economic Association largely to warning against the effects of “an undemocratic distribution of wealth.” And he spoke favorably of proposals to limit inherited wealth through heavy taxation of estates.
事实上，在20世纪初，美国的许多知名人士对财富极端集中的危险性发出了警告，呼吁利用税收政策限制巨额财富的增长。还有一个例子：1919年，伟大的经济学家欧文·费雪( Irving Fisher)——顺便说一句，他的“债务紧缩”理论是我们理解当前经济困境的关键——就任美国经济学会(American Economic Association)主席的演说中，很大一部份内容是在警告“非民主的财富分配”的效应。他在演讲中支持了通过对遗产课以重税来限制财富继承的多个提案。
Nor was the notion of limiting the concentration of wealth, especially inherited wealth, just talk. In his landmark book, “Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” the economist Thomas Piketty points out that America, which introduced an income tax in 1913 and an inheritance tax in 1916, led the way in the rise of progressive taxation, that it was “far out in front” of Europe. Mr. Piketty goes so far as to say that “confiscatory taxation of excessive incomes” — that is, taxation whose goal was to reduce income and wealth disparities, rather than to raise money — was an “American invention.”
限制财富集中，尤其是针对继承的财富，并没有停留在口头。在具有里程碑意义的《21世纪的资本》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)一书中，经济学家托马斯·皮凯蒂(Thomas Piketty)指出，美国引领了累进税制的崛起，在这方面“遥遥领先于”欧洲。美国1913年引入了收入税，1916年引入了继承税。皮凯蒂甚至说，“对过高收入征收没收性赋税”——即旨在减少收入和贫富差距、而不是筹集资金的赋税——是“美国的发明”。
And this invention had deep historical roots in the Jeffersonian vision of an egalitarian society of small farmers. Back when Teddy Roosevelt gave his speech, many thoughtful Americans realized not just that extreme inequality was making nonsense of that vision, but that America was in danger of turning into a society dominated by hereditary wealth — that the New World was at risk of turning into Old Europe. And they were forthright in arguing that public policy should seek to limit inequality for political as well as economic reasons, that great wealth posed a danger to democracy.
这种发明可以追溯到杰斐逊对人人平等的小农社会的愿景。当罗斯福发表演讲时，许多有见地的美国人意识到，极端的贫富不均不仅让这种愿景成为空谈，美国还面临着沦为由继承财富主宰的社会的危险——也就是说，新世界可能变成旧欧洲。他们直言不讳地说，公共政策应该寻求限制贫富不均，这既是因为经济原因，也是因为政治原因。他们说，巨额财富是对民主的威胁。
So how did such views not only get pushed out of the mainstream, but come to be considered illegitimate?
那么，这样的观点是怎么被排挤到主流之外，甚至被认为不合理的？
Consider how inequality and taxes on top incomes were treated in the 2012 election. Republicans pushed the line that President Obama was hostile to the rich. “If one’s priority is to punish highly successful people, then vote for the Democrats,” said Mitt Romney. Democrats vehemently (and truthfully) denied the charge. Yet Mr. Romney was in effect accusing Mr. Obama of thinking like Teddy Roosevelt. How did that become an unforgivable political sin?
想想在2012年的大选中人们是如何对待贫富不均和向高收入者征税的问题吧。共和党称奥巴马对富人有敌意。米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)说，“如果你最大的愿望是惩罚获得了巨大成功的人，那么投票给民主党吧。”民主党人激烈地（而且真诚地）否认了这一指责。然而实际上，罗姆尼是因为奥巴马的想法和泰迪·罗斯福如出一辙而对其加以指责。这怎么就成了一个不可原谅的政治罪过了？
You sometimes hear the argument that concentrated wealth is no longer an important issue, because the big winners in today’s economy are self-made men who owe their position at the top of the ladder to earned income, not inheritance. But that view is a generation out of date. New work by the economists Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman finds that the share of wealth held at the very top — the richest 0.1 percent of the population — has doubled since the 1980s, and is now as high as it was when Teddy Roosevelt and Irving Fisher issued their warnings.
你有时会听到这样的观点：财富集中不再是一个重要议题，因为当今的经济中，成功者靠的是自己的奋斗，他们的上层地位都源于自己赚来的收入，不是继承来的。但这个观点二三十年前就过时了。经济学家伊曼纽尔·赛斯(Emmanuel Saez)和加布里埃尔·祖克曼(Gabriel Zucman)的最新研究发现，最顶层人士——人口中最富有的百分之零点一——所拥有的财富自上世纪80年代已经增加了一倍，现在已经达到泰迪·罗斯福和欧文·费雪发出警告时的水平。