As recently as two years ago, only five towers in New York City topped 1,000 feet. Now, there are that many “supertall” towers in the works on 57th Street alone, and roughly two dozen either under construction or on the drawing boards across Manhattan and in Brooklyn.
就在两年前，纽约还只有五座高楼达到1000英尺（合304.8米――译注）。如今，仅仅在第57街上，就有许多“超级高楼”了，在曼哈顿与布鲁克林，大约有20多座高楼正在兴建或规划之中。
The city has not seen such an epochal shift on the skyline since the postwar boom, and before that, the Jazz Age.
自从“二战”后的飞速发展时期，乃至更早的爵士时代繁荣以来，这座城市的天际线还未曾经历过如此巨大的变迁。
This upheaval, fueled by advances in engineering and an influx of foreign money, and enabled by lenient zoning codes, has left residents, politicians and developers themselves scrambling to adapt the city’s changing profile.
工程学的进步与国外资金的涌入促成了这一巨变，此外宽松的分区规划政策也使其变为可能。如今，居民、政治家和开发商们拼命去适应这个城市不断变化的面貌。
The New York skyline is always in flux, and not everyone has been happy about it. In the past, most of the consternation was directed at office towers. Now, though, as the city competes for verticality with Beijing, Dubai and London, residential towers are reshaping the skyline.
纽约的天际线一直都处在不断地变化之中，但不是所有人都喜欢这样。过去，大多数不满主要是针对办公大厦。但现在，随着纽约在垂直发展方面堪与北京、迪拜和伦敦看齐，居民楼也加入了对天际线的重塑。
Flip through a high-end magazine right now and one will see page after page of ads for new luxury developments in New York, many of them for towers on Billionaires’ Row, the area between the southern edge of Central Park and 56th Street, that push above the clouds and the madness of the city. Those ads, however, tend to ignore the towering competition down the block. The views they proffer don’t show the nearby buildings already reaching skyward, or give any indication that there will soon be others. Whether the omissions are by accident or design depends on whom you ask.
如今，翻阅高端杂志，便可以看到一页接一页纽约新豪华开发项目的广告，其中很多都是亿万富豪街（Billionaires’ Row，即前文的57街——译注）上的高楼，这个区域位于中央公园南角与56街之间，广告上的高楼高耸入云，令这个城市显得疯狂。然而这些广告往往无视这一地带还有很多高楼在竞争。在广告中提供的图景里，并没有周围那些已经高高耸立的建筑，更不会言明不久后还会有新的高楼拔地而起。这些忽略是无心抑或故意？这要取决于你问的是谁。
“It’s like the Who song,” said Jonathan Miller, president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. “You can see for miles and miles and miles. Until you look into your neighbor’s building.”
“有点像‘谁人’(The Who)的一首歌，”米勒·萨缪尔(Miller Samuel)评估公司总裁乔纳森·米勒(Jonathan Miller)说。“你可以看到几英里，几英里，几英里，直到看见你旁边建筑的内部。”
At the launch party for 520 Park Avenue this fall, above the herringbone floors and next to the well-equipped kitchen inside the showroom, renderings of the future tower, at 60th Street, hung like works of art. One looked southeast, as if photographed by an angel (or more likely a drone) floating over the park. It captured the Bloomberg Tower, the future 520 Park Avenue itself, the Citigroup Center, the GM Building, even the Chrysler spire in the distance.
秋天，将在60街落成的520公园大道大厦(520 Park Avenue)项目举办了启动派对，展厅里铺着人字形地砖，装备精良的厨房旁边，陈列着这栋未来大厦的效果图，如同艺术品一般悬挂着。图片是东南方向的视角，仿佛是漂浮在公园之上的天使拍到的照片（或者说更像无人机拍的）。图片中包括彭博大厦(Bloomberg Tower)、未来的520公园大道大厦本身、花旗集团中心(Citigroup Center)、通用汽车大厦(GM Building)，甚至还有远处高耸的克莱斯勒大厦(Chrysler)。
One thing was conspicuously missing, even though it has been a major part of the skyline for almost three years: 432 Park Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets. A broker explained that the photo used in the rendering had been taken before the 1,396-foot tower, the second tallest building in the city at the moment, had begun.
图片中明显缺失的是56街至57街之间的432公园大道大厦，尽管它在将近三年的时间里都是天际线的重要部分。它高达1396英尺，是目前纽约第二高的建筑。一个经纪人解释说，这张效果图使用的照片是在这座大厦落成之前拍摄的。
For 111 West 57th Street, just off the Avenue of the Americas and planned at 1,428 feet, the advertising is close-cropped, heightening the drama and detail of the saw-toothed terra-cotta tower and its relationship to the park. One57 is pictured, but 432 Park is missing here, too, as is a proposed redevelopment of the Park Lane Hotel, set to rise at least 1,000 feet on Fifth Avenue near Central Park South.
西57街111号距离美洲大道不远，根据计划，它的高度将是1428英尺。广告很短，突出了这座锯齿状棕褐色大楼的戏剧性效果与细节，以及它和公园间的关系。效果图中有One57大厦，但同样没有432公园大厦，此外还缺少计划中的帕克·莱恩酒店(Park Lane Hotel)重建方案，它将耸立在第五大道附近中央公园南部，至少高达1000英尺。
“We’re not forecasters, so any building that’s not built yet wouldn’t be a factor for us,” explained Michael Stern, founder and managing partner of JDS Development, which is building 111 West 57th Street. “I actually really like 432,” he added. “It makes my building look less intimidating.”
“我们不是预报员，所以任何尚未兴建的建筑都不会是我们要考虑的因素，”西57街111号的建筑商，JDS开发公司的创始人兼管理伙伴迈克尔·斯特恩(Michael Stern)说。“我其实很喜欢432大厦，”他补充说。“它会让我的建筑显得没有那么咄咄逼人。”
Gary Barnett, the founder of Extell Development, is responsible for One57, where about a quarter of the 92 units remain unsold, two years after completion. Those apartments that have sold have set records, including a $100.4 million penthouse. Mr. Barnett is also overseeing the Central Park Tower at the corner of Broadway and 57th Street now under construction; at 1,550 feet, it would be the city’s tallest building, were it not for the World Trade Center’s 408-foot spire.
加里·巴奈特(Gary Barnett)是埃克斯戴尔开发公司(Extell Devel)的创始人，负责One57大厦，它有92个单元，落成已经两年，目前还有1/4没有售出。已经售出的公寓创下了纪录，其中包括1.004亿美元的顶层公寓。巴奈特也负责正在建设中的、位于百老汇和57街交汇处的中央公园大厦(Central Park Tower)。它高达1550英尺，若不是因为世贸中心408英尺高的尖顶，将会是纽约最高的建筑。
“Big as these buildings are, most of them do not have very many units. Maybe there’s a few hundred on the whole stretch,” Mr. Barnett said. “It might take a little longer for them to sell, but there is certainly demand for these buildings.”
“这些建筑虽大，但是其中大都没有太多单元。加起来大概有几百个单元，”巴奈特先生说。“售出可能需要较长的时间，但是对于这些建筑的需求确实存在。”
These slender cloud-busters would not have been built without the confluence of new technologies and wealthy buyers seeking a Manhattan address. Superstrong concrete and new wind testing made possible buildings like 432 Park, which, at 93 feet wide, is 15 times as tall as it is wide. In effect, developers now need only a lot the size of a brownstone or three to build a tower, rather than much of a block, as with the 1,250-foot Empire State Building, which, when it opened in 1931, was the tallest building in the world. And many areas have no restrictions on building heights.
若不是因为新技术的兴起与富有买家希望在曼哈顿购置房产，这些壮观的摩天大厦便不可能拔地而起。超强力的混凝土与新风测试令432公园这样的建筑成为可能，它有93英尺宽，高度是宽度的15倍。实际上，开发商现在只需要一到三个传统大宅的面积，就能兴建一栋大厦；而不是当年像兴建1250英尺高的帝国大厦那样，需要一整个街区的面积，帝国大厦于1931年落成，是当时世界上最高的建筑。而且现在纽约市内很多区域不再有建筑高度限制。
“New York was asleep at the wheel the past 20, 30 years in terms of design and the skyline,” said David Williams, principal of Williams New York, a real estate branding company with two projects on the eastern edge of 57th Street. “Now, I can’t think of a city in the world that has seen so much being built on a single boulevard. From coast to coast, it’s New York chutzpah.”
“过去二三十年，在城市设计和天际线的发展进程方面，纽约一直在沉睡，”房地产品牌公司“威廉姆斯纽约”(Williams New York)的负责人大卫·威廉姆斯(David Williams)说。该公司在57街东侧拥有两个项目。“现在，世界上简直没有一座城市能看到那么多大厦在同一条大道上兴建。放眼整个美国，这就是纽约的大胆妄为之处。”
Among many New Yorkers, the towers are anathema, casting shadows on Central Park and darkening the streets and sidewalks below.
对于很多纽约人来说，这些大厦非常讨厌，它们在中央公园投下长长的阴影，让阴影之下的街道与步行道黑沉沉的。
The Municipal Art Society is among the numerous civic groups challenging the rise of the towers as a distortion of half-century-old zoning codes that did not anticipate the ability to build so high. By buying neighbors’ air rights and building up rather than out, developers have created what the society has called the Accidental Skyline.
市政艺术社团是诸多反对兴建高楼的民间组织之一，他们认为这些高楼的兴建，扭曲了半个世纪以来的城市建筑规划，而这些规划未能预料到大楼有可能被建得这样高。该社区说，开发商通过买下邻里一带的空间权，并选择向上而非向外发展，从而创造出被称为“意料之外的天际线”的现象。
“As the technology has improved, our civic processes haven’t,” Mary Rowe, the group’s executive vice president, said.
“我们的民事程序并没有随着科技发展而发展，”该社团的执行副主席玛丽·罗(Mary Rowe)说。
Whether creating subway overcrowding or shadows on public spaces, these high-rises could have unintended consequences on the cityscape, and not just in Midtown Manhattan. Beyond the two dozen buildings in the works, the art society has identified areas ranging from 125th Street to Second Avenue on the Upper East Side, the Flatiron district and Downtown Brooklyn that are ripe for development. The society wants City Hall to intervene.
这些高楼不管是否导致了地铁拥挤，或是在公共区域投下阴影，它们都可能在无意间对城市景观造成了影响，且不仅仅是在曼哈顿中城。在兴建中的20多座建筑以外，这个艺术社团还发现，从上东区125街到第二大道，熨斗区与下城布鲁克林都准备进行房地产开发。社会希望市议会能够进行干预。
The administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio, in its effort to encourage development for the sake of creating new affordable housing, has so far declined to take up the issue of updating this aspect of the zoning codes. Though numerous Manhattan City Council members want to restrict the sales of air rights that make these supertall buildings possible, the city planning commissioner, Carl Weisbrod, reaffirmed their value at a Council hearing last month.
纽约市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)的市政班底为了提供新的可负担住房，正致力于鼓励房地产开发，所以目前拒绝就城市规划的这个方面进行更新。但是许多曼哈顿议会的成员希望限制空间权的交易，正是这些交易使得那些超级高楼成为可能。城市规划委员会成员卡尔·韦斯布罗德(Carl Weisbrod)在上月的一次委员会听证会上重申了他们的价值观。
“This often leads to a more interesting streetscape and pedestrian experience,” Mr. Weisbrod said, “as well as an incredibly dynamic, iconic skyline that is the envy of the world.”
“这样做会带来更有趣的街道景观与步行体验，”韦斯布罗德说，“会为我们带来一个充满活力，令全世界艳羡的标志性城市天际线。”