TOKYO — The Japanese electronics industry largely missed out on the smartphone revolution. Yet this summer, even as one Japanese company, NEC, exited the business, another one, Fujitsu, announced plans for a new export push.
东京——在很大程度上，日本的电子行业错失了智能手机革命带来的良机。然而今夏，就在日本企业NEC退出智能手机产业时，另一家企业富士通(Fujitsu)却宣布了新的出口推动计划。
Rather than competing with dominant brands like Samsung and Apple in the mainstream smartphone market, Fujitsu is aiming at a niche — older consumers, who, the company says, are not always served adequately by products like Apple’s iPhone or the Samsung Galaxy series.
富士通没有在智能手机的主流市场和占主导地位的三星(Samsung)、苹果(Apple)等品牌竞争，而是瞄准了以年长顾客为主的利基市场。该公司表示，像苹果iPhone或三星Galaxy系列手机这样的产品，并不总是能充分满足这些顾客的需要。
In partnership with Orange, formerly France Télécom, Fujitsu has started selling a smartphone in France that uses a technology called Raku-Raku, or “easy easy.”
与Orange合作的富士通已经开始在法国销售智能手机，该手机使用的是名为“Raku-Raku”（意为“轻松轻松”）的技术。Orange的前身是法国电信(France Télécom)。
The Raku-Raku handset has a touch screen and provides on-the-go Internet access, but it has larger buttons and other features aimed at older people who sometimes struggle with the complexity of conventional smartphones.
Raku-Raku手机有一个触摸屏，能提供移动互联网接入，不过它有尺寸更大的按钮和其他针对老年人的功能，有时，这些人对普通智能手机的复杂性感到力不从心。
“We believe the smartphone provides benefits to these customers,” said Toru Mizumoto, the director of the mobile product division at Fujitsu.
富士通移动产品部主管水元彻(Toru Mizumoto)说，“我们认为，这款智能手机能让这些客户受益。”
In partnership with NTT DoCoMo, the leading mobile network operator in Japan, Fujitsu has sold 20 million Raku-Raku phones in Japan since it introduced them in 2001. Ten million of them remain in active use more than a decade later. While most of these phones are old-fashioned feature phones, Fujitsu and DoCoMo introduced the first Raku-Raku smartphone in Japan last year.
自2001年推出Raku-Raku手机以来，和日本首屈一指的移动网络运营商NTT都科摩(NTT DoCoMo)合作的富士通已经卖出了2000万台Raku-Raku手机。其中的1000万台在10年之后依然在活跃地使用着。这些手机大部分都是老式的功能手机，不过去年，富士通和都科摩联手推出了第一款Raku-Raku智能手机。
Japanese manufacturers tend to focus on the domestic market, introducing features that are considered innovative here but considered quirky and less appealing elsewhere.
日本制造商倾向于把精力集中在国内市场，推出在本土被认为具有创新性的功能。然而，在其他地区，这些功能却被认为很怪异，而且不那么具有吸引力。
While aging consumers may be a niche market, they present a growing opportunity in most industrialized countries. In Japan, 39 percent of the population will be 65 or older in 2050, up from 23 percent in 2010, according to the Statistics Bureau of Japan. In France, the 65-and-older cohort will grow to 25 percent in 2050 from 17 percent in 2010, data from the United Nations show.
老龄顾客群体也许只算是一个利基市场，然而，在大多数工业化国家，他们提供了一个日渐扩大的机会。根据日本统计局(Statistics Bureau of Japan)的数据，在日本，有39%人口将在2050年达到或超过65岁，而在2010年这个比例只有23%。联合国(United Nations)的数据显示，在法国，65岁及以上年龄人口的比例，将从2010年的17%，上升到2050年的25%。
“If you’re a smaller vendor and maybe haven’t had much of a presence in Europe, it makes sense to look at these kinds of niches,” said André Malm, an analyst at Berg Insight, a research firm in Gothenberg, Sweden. “It’s an underserved market.”
位于瑞典哥德堡的研究公司Berg Insight的分析师安德烈·马尔姆(André Malm)说，“如果你是一个规模较小的供应商，也许在欧洲的布局不太大，那么关注这种利基市场是有意义的。这个市场还没有得到充足的服务。”
The 65-and-up population may be growing, but 65-year-olds are becoming younger, too — at least in terms of their affinity for technology. Those who will retire in 2020 or 2030 are active on Facebook or Twitter now.
65岁及以上年龄的人口也许在增加，但是这个群体也正在变得更年轻，至少从他们对技术的喜爱来看是这样。那些将在2020年或2030年退休的人口，目前正活跃在Facebook或Twitter上。
“We see that there is a big, big part of the senior population that is willing to go for a smartphone,” said Augustin Becquet, the head of Orange’s device portfolio.
Orange的设备部负责人奥古斯丁·贝凯(Augustin Becquet)说，“我们看到，老龄人口中，有相当大的一部分人愿意购买智能手机。”
While the elders of tomorrow may be increasingly comfortable with technology, their physical dexterity may deteriorate with age, as it has with past generations. That is where the Raku-Raku smartphone, called the Fujitsu Stylistic S01, comes in.
尽管未来的老龄人口也许会越来越适应科技的进步，但他们生理上的灵巧度依然可能随着年龄增长而老化。这就是名为富士通Stylistic S01的Raku-Raku智能手机所要解决的问题。
At first glance, the S01 looks like a fairly ordinary smartphone. The features aimed at pleasing old people could just as easily be annoying. The touch-screen “buttons” on the phone’s calling function, for example, require a firmer push than those on ordinary smartphones. Only after a slight vibration do they register the chosen digit. That way, the phone avoids misdialing.
乍看上去，S01像是个非常普通的智能手机。旨在取悦老年人的功能也很可能会惹恼用户。比如说，手机触摸屏上对应呼叫功能“按键”在按动时需要比按普通智能手机更用力才行。而且机器会轻微震动一下，才会记录下按下的数字，通过这种方式，手机能够避免拨错号码。
Another Fujitsu technology appears to slow down the speech of the person on the receiving end of a Raku-Raku call by removing the gaps between words and allotting more time to the actual sounds. The screen is brighter than those on ordinary smartphones, making it easier to read under direct sunlight.
富士通的另一项技术似乎能在Raku-Raku通话时，在接听方降低说话人的语速，该技术能去除了词语之间的间隙，把更多的时间分配给实际发音。该手机的屏幕比普通智能手机的更亮，更便于用户在阳光直射时阅读手机上的字。
There are also safety features, like a button on the phone that sends a text message to a friend or family member with the GPS coordinates of the phone’s owner in case of emergency. In its shops, Orange is providing special training on how to use the phones.
该手机还具备安全功能，比如，手机上有一个按键，用于在紧急情况下给朋友或家人发送短信息，把机主的GPS坐标告知对方。Orange正在旗下的店面给用户提供特别培训，讲解如何使用这款手机。
“The younger generation likes the stuff with the latest technology, but every smartphone vendor is going to have to adapt to an aging population,” Mr. Becquet said.
贝凯说，“较年轻的一代喜欢配备了最新科技的产品，可是，每一家智能手机厂商都必须适应逐渐老龄化的人口。”
While Fujitsu and DoCoMo were pioneers in the development of phones for older people, they are not the only players in the field. Two European companies, Emporia Telecom in Austria and Doro in Sweden, have also been actively pursuing older users.
在为老年人开发手机方面，富士通和都科摩一马当先，然而，他们不是该领域仅有的选手。来自欧洲的两家公司，奥地利的Emporia Telecom和瑞典的Doro也一直在积极争取老年用户。
Doro introduced its first phone aimed at that market in 2008 and has sold four million of them since then. In the Nordic countries, 15 percent of the 65-and-older population uses Doro phones, said Jérôme Arnaud, the chief executive of the company.
Doro于2008年推出了针对老龄市场的第一款手机，自那之后，该款手机已经售出了400万台。Doro公司首席执行官杰罗姆·阿诺(Jérôme Arnaud)透露，在斯堪的纳维亚国家65岁及以上年龄的人口中，有15%的人在使用Doro手机。
While most of the Doro phones in use are old-fashioned handsets, the company introduced a basic smartphone last December and plans to roll out a more sophisticated model this autumn, Mr. Arnaud said.
阿诺说，大部分还在使用的Domo手机都是老款手机，不过，该公司于去年12月推出了一款具备基本功能的智能手机，并计划于今秋推出一款更复杂的手机。
The phone will use a simplified version of the Android mobile operating system, and several dozen applications have been customized for it, he added. These include a video e-mail function that lets older people skip the typing.
他还说，这款手机将使用简化版的Android移动操作系统，公司已经为它定制了几十种应用软件。其中包括视频邮件的功能，它能让老年人跳过打字环节。
As for Orange and Fujitsu, the companies say they view the partnership in France as a pilot project; if the Stylistic phone catches on, they say, it will also be offered in other European markets in which Orange operates, like Britain.
Orange和富士通则说，他们把在法国的合作项目视为一个样板工程。他们说，如果Stylistic手机流行起来，他们还会在Orange运营的其他欧洲市场销售这款手机，比如英国。
“For Japanese vendors, it has been challenging to go abroad,” said Michito Kimura, an analyst at the research firm IDC, “but this technology does meet a demand.”
研究公司IDC的分析师木村融人(Michito Kimura)说，“对日本厂商来说，打开海外市场一直是个挑战。不过，这项技术确实满足了一种需求。”