SHANGHAI — Authorities in Taiwan detained several former managers of Foxconn Technology on Wednesday as part of a widening investigation into whether they accepted millions of dollars in bribes from the company’s supply-chain partners.
上海——本周三，台湾当局拘捕了富士康(Foxconn Technology)的几名前任经理，以进一步调查他们是否从供应链合作伙伴公司收受了数百万美元的贿赂。
Foxconn, which is one of the world’s biggest electronics makers and a main supplier to Apple, said on Wednesday that the company was cooperating with investigators in Taiwan.
富士康是世界上最大的电子产品制造商之一，也是苹果(Apple)的主要供应商之一。周三该公司表示，他们正在配合台湾调查人员开展调查。
The investigation is another blow to the reputation of a company that has struggled in recent years with labor and worker safety problems, and even a spate of worker suicides at its Chinese facilities.
这次调查是对富士康的又一个打击，该公司近年来在劳工安全方面问题重重，其位于中国的工厂甚至接连发生了工人自杀事件。
Few global companies, though, are as large and flexible and adept at getting new products to market as Foxconn, which has contracts with most of the world’s major consumer electronic brands.
但是，很少有跨国公司像富士康这样规模既大，又很灵活，而且善于把新产品推向市场。全球大多数知名消费电子品牌都跟富士康签订了供需合同。
Although the company is based in Taiwan, most of its global manufacturing takes place in central and southern China, at huge facilities that can employ up to 100,000 workers.
虽然富士康总部设在台湾，但其制造环节大部分集中在中国中部和南部的大型工厂里进行，有些工厂的工人多达10万名。
Foxconn, part of the Hon Hai Group, said that the fraudulent activities were found after an internal audit and affected a small part of the business. The company also said it turned to the authorities in Taiwan last September hoping to prosecute those involved in wrongdoing.
富士康隶属于鸿海集团(Hon Hai Group)，它表示，这些欺诈行为是在一次内部审计中发现的，涉及该公司业务的一小部分。富士康还表示，已于去年9月向台湾当局报案，希望起诉这些不法人员。
On Wednesday, a spokesman for Apple referred questions about the inquiry to Foxconn.
本周三，苹果公司的发言人将关于这次调查的问题推给了富士康。
In a statement released Wednesday, Foxconn said: “Foxconn holds our company, our employees, and our suppliers to the highest standards in responsible business practices and the results of our internal audit have driven a number of enhancements to our company’s procurement policies to ensure that such violations cannot be repeated.”
在本周三发布的一份声明中，富士康表示：“富士康要求公司、员工和供应商满足负责任的商业行为的最高标准，内部审计的结果推动我们对公司采购政策进行了大量改善，以确保这种不法行为不再发生。”
Early last year, the Taiwan edition of Next magazine reported that a Foxconn executive in the coastal Chinese city Shenzhen had been detained by the police on bribery accusations. In the report, Next said the executive had been accused of asking for bribes from suppliers.
去年年初，《壹周刊》(Next)台湾版曾报道，中国沿海城市深圳的富士康高管因受贿指控遭到警方拘留。该报告称，这些高管此前被指控向供应商索要贿赂。