HONG KONG – Zhang Zhirong, a mainland Chinese billionaire who was involved in an insider trading case in the United States last year, may make a privatization bid for his property development company in Hong Kong.
香港——中国内地亿万富翁张志熔可能将对他在香港的房地产开发公司进行私有化收购。张志熔去年曾卷入美国的一起内幕交易案。
Mr. Zhang, who is the largest shareholder in the shipbuilder China Rongsheng Heavy Industries, is expected to make a buyout offer to independent shareholders of Glorious Property Holdings, a Chinese developer in which he already owns a 68 percent stake, the company said on Monday in a Hong Kong stock exchange announcement.
张志熔是造船厂中国熔盛重工集团控股有限公司(China Rongsheng Heavy Industries)的最大股东。周一，恒盛地产控股有限公司(Glorious Property Holdings)在香港证券交易所发布公告称，张志熔将对该公司的独立股东提出收购要约，张志熔现已拥有该中国房地产开发公司68%的股份。
A privatization bid would be an opportunistic play by Mr. Zhang.
私有化收购是张志熔进行的投机交易活动。
Despite the strong rebound in Chinese housing prices and sales volumes in recent months, shares in Glorious Property were down 15 percent this year before being suspended from trading on Monday. The company’s stock is now more than 70 percent below the price at which it sold shares in its 2009 initial public offering, leaving Glorious Property valued at 9.7 billion Hong Kong dollars ($1.2 billion).
最近几个月，中国的房价和销售量出现强劲反弹，尽管如此，周一停盘之前，恒盛地产的股价今年的累计跌幅还是达到了15%。该公司现在的股价比2009年首次公开募股时下跌了逾70%，致使恒盛地产的市值降至97亿港元（约合76亿元人民币）。
The 32 percent stake that Mr. Zhang does not already own is worth about 3.1 billion dollars at the current share price.
根据当前的股价计算，不属于张志熔的32%股份目前的价值约为31亿港元。
A successful privatization of the company would be a bright spot on what has been a challenging year for Mr. Zhang.
对于张志熔来说，今年是充满挑战的一年，如果该公司的私有化交易获得成功，将会成为今年的一大亮点。
Rongsheng Heavy Industries has been hit hard by falling prices in the global shipbuilding industry. In July, laid-off workers temporarily blockaded its plant in Nantong, just north of Shanghai, and the company announced that it had been delaying payments to suppliers and staff members because of a cash crunch. Mr. Zhang had to lend the company 200 million renminbi (about $33 million) of his personal money to help it make payments.
国际造船业的价格下跌给熔盛重工造成了沉重打击。7月，被解雇的工人暂时封堵了熔盛重工位于南通（上海以北）的工厂，公司宣称，因为资金短缺才一直拖欠应该付给供应商的资金和员工的报酬。张志熔不得不把2亿人民币的个人资金借给工厂，以便工厂清账。
In October 2012, Well Advantage, a Hong Kong firm controlled by Mr. Zhang, agreed to pay $14 million to settle insider trading charges brought by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The S.E.C. had charged that Well Advantage relied on confidential inside information to buy shares in Nexen, an oil company based in Calgary, Alberta, just before Cnooc, the Chinese offshore oil producer, started a $15.1 billion takeover bid for the Canadian company.
2012年10月，由张志熔控制的香港公司Well Advantage同意支付1400万美元来解决美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）提出的内幕交易指控。SEC称，在中国石油生产商中国海洋石油总公司对加拿大公司尼克森(Nexen)开始价值151亿美元的收购前，Well Advantage利用内部机密信息购买了尼克森的股票。尼克森位于艾伯塔省的卡尔加里。
Mr. Zhang was not personally named in the suit, but the S.E.C. identified him as the owner of Well Advantage. The firm neither admitted to nor denied the S.E.C.’s charges, but the $14 million settlement included disgorgement of $7 million in illegal trading profits and a $7 million penalty.
诉讼并未特别提到张志熔的姓名，但SEC指出他是Well Advantage的所有者。这家公司没有就SEC的指控表态，1400万美元的和解资金却包括700万美元的非法盈利和700万美元的罚金。
Weeks after the settlement was officially lodged with the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Mr. Zhang resigned as a director of both Glorious Property and Rongsheng Heavy Industries, citing personal reasons.
在与美国纽约南区联邦地区法院正式达成和解协议的几周后，张志熔以个人原因为由，辞去了恒盛地产和熔盛重工的总裁职位。