KIEV, Ukraine — On a Sunday in December when the Ukrainian uprising seemed about to tip into wide-scale violence, Petro Poroshenko, a pro-Western billionaire, thrust himself between antigovernment protesters and riot police officers clashing outside the presidential headquarters, climbed on a bulldozer that was threatening to plow through the crowd and grabbed an orange plastic megaphone.
乌克兰基辅——去年12月的一个星期日，乌克兰的抗议似乎即将陷入大规模的暴力冲突。此时，亲西方的亿万富翁彼得·波罗申科(Petro Poroshenko)挤进了正在总统府外冲突的反政府示威者与防暴警察之间。他爬上一辆似乎要冲进人群碾压的推土机，抓起了一个橘红色的塑料扩音器。
“Friends, calm down,” he shouted, as pro-government thugs brought in to antagonize the demonstrators cursed him and hurled anti-Semitic slurs, though he is a member of the Ukrainian Orthodox faith, not Jewish. As chaos swirled, Mr. Poroshenko, 48, stood his ground, helping keep injuries to a minimum, but also cementing his status as a leader of the pro-European opposition and defying the stereotype of the superrich above it all.
他喊道，“朋友们，冷静！”被派来与示威者对抗的亲政府暴徒则对他大加辱骂，高喊反犹太人的脏话，尽管他信仰乌克兰东正教，并非犹太人。场面十分混乱，但是48岁的波罗申科仍然坚持在现场，帮助最大限度地减少伤害，同时也为他赢得了亲欧反对派领导者的地位，尤其是打破了人们对富豪的成见。
Now, with less than a week to go until a presidential election here, Mr. Poroshenko is once again at the center of a fracas that most of his fellow oligarchs would rather avoid. The latest polls show Mr. Poroshenko, a confection magnate known as the Chocolate King, as the heavy favorite, likely to avoid a runoff with his strongest opponent, former Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko. Ms. Tymoshenko insists that the polls are wrong and that she will surge ahead.
现在，距离乌克兰举行总统大选还有不到一周时间，波罗申科再一次挤进了其他寡头宁愿回避的纷争。最近的民调显示，波罗申科这个被称为“巧克力大王”的甜食商人成了大热门，在与最有力的对手、前总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)的竞争中，有望第一轮投票就取胜。季莫申科坚持表示，民调数据有误，她会赶超上来。
A poll by the Kiev International Institute of Sociology, conducted April 29 to May 11, found Mr. Poroshenko supported by 34 percent of all voters, compared with 6 percent for Ms. Tymoshenko and 4 percent for Sergey Tigipko, a member of Parliament and former economics minister; 25 percent said they were undecided. The survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
基辅国际社会学研究所(Kiev International Institute of Sociology)在4月29日至5月11日之间举行的调查显示，波罗申科得到了34%选民的支持，季莫申科则为6%。国会议员、前经济部长谢尔盖·季吉普科(Sergey Tigipko)支持率为4%，另有25%民众表示尚未确定投票意愿。这次调查的抽样误差为正负3个百分点。
Among voters who said they had made up their minds, Mr. Poroshenko was supported by 54.7 percent — enough to avoid a runoff — with 9.6 percent for Ms. Tymoshenko and 6.7 percent for Mr. Tigipko.
在表示已经确定投票意愿的民众中，波罗申科的支持率为54.7%，季莫申科9.6%，季吉普科6.7%。波罗申科足以在第一轮投票取胜，避免第二轮投票。
With the country still roiled by separatist violence in the east, the growing air of inevitability around Mr. Poroshenko, who has deep business interests in Russia, has redrawn the Ukraine conflict. It has presented the Kremlin with the prospect of a clear negotiating partner, apparently contributing, officials and analysts say, to a softening in the stance of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
波罗申科在俄罗斯拥有大量商业利益。此时东部分离派的暴力活动仍然困扰着乌克兰，而波罗申科的必胜势头日渐显现，重新勾勒了乌克兰冲突的格局。这让克里姆林宫感觉，有望产生一个清晰的谈判伙伴。官员和分析人士表示，这似乎促使俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)软化了立场。
After weeks of threatening an invasion, Mr. Putin now seems to have closed off the possibility of a Crimea-style land grab in the east, and even issued guarded support for the election to go forward.
在数周的侵略威胁过后，普京现在似乎排除了仿照在克里米亚的做法，在乌克兰东部攫取土地的可能性，甚至还对向前推进选举表达了有保留的支持。
“You can have a kind of a civil war and this kind of gray zone and be completely separated and face a higher degree of economic sanctions,” said Adrian Karatnycky, an expert on Ukraine at the Atlantic Council, describing the choice facing Mr. Putin. “Or you can see if it’s possible to bargain with this new guy, who has businesses in Russia, who has never been known to be a big ultranationalist.”
“要么掀起某种形式的内战，进入这种灰色地带，并因此被完全隔绝，面对更严重的经济制裁，”大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)乌克兰问题专家阿德里安·卡拉特尼茨基(Adrian Karatnycky)在描述普京面临的选择时说。“要么就看看是不是有可能和这个新人讨价还价，他在俄罗斯有生意，而且外界都知道他从来不是个热衷于民族主义的人。”
Mr. Poroshenko is a veteran of Ukrainian politics, having served as foreign minister under President Viktor A. Yushchenko; as economics minister under the ousted president, Viktor F. Yanukovych; and as a longtime member of Parliament, including a stint as speaker.
波罗申科跻身乌克兰政界已久，曾在前总统维克多·A·尤先科(Viktor A. Yushchenko)任内担任外交部长，也曾在被推翻的总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)任内担任经济部长，还长期担任议员，并短暂担任过议长。
“The reasoning on Poroshenko is that he is a pragmatist and he was in the Yanukovych government,” Mr. Karatnycky said. “He is a person who is a dealmaker. From that point of view, it may mean that Putin is willing to give it a chance of trying to get something out of this.”
“对波罗申科的考虑是，他是个务实派，还曾在亚努科维奇政府任职，”卡拉特尼茨基说，“他是一个可以促成妥协的人。站在这个角度，这或许意味着普京愿意留一个机会，尝试一下能否取得自己想要的。”
Exactly what Mr. Putin wants to get remains to be seen. Some analysts believe he wants a guarantee that Ukraine will not join NATO. Others think he will settle only for a federalized government that permanently weakens Kiev, while still others believe he will continue destabilizing the country.  
但普京想要的到底是什么仍不得而知。一些分析人士认为，他想要乌克兰保证不会加入北约(NATO)。另一些人认为，只有政府联邦化，从而永久性地削弱基辅的力量，他才会满意。此外，还有人相信他会继续破坏乌克兰的稳定。
Recently, Mr. Poroshenko has struck a conciliatory tone, promising to mend ties with Russia and saying at a news conference on Sunday that he opposed holding a referendum on Ukrainian membership in NATO. He has also sought to bring normalcy to the campaign, assuring voters that he will provide security if elected but stressing a more traditional message: jobs.
最近，波罗申科表现出了和解的口吻，承诺修复与俄罗斯的关系，并在周日举行的一场新闻发布会上表示，他反对举行乌克兰加入北约的公投。他还把正常化作为自己的竞选议题，向选民们保证如果他当选会保障安全，不过也强调了较为传统的讯息：就业。
Mr. Poroshenko’s views already carry heavy influence in the provisional government in Kiev, including his belief that the government must crack down on armed insurgents in the east.
波罗申科的看法在基辅的过渡政府中，已经产生了巨大的影响力，包括他认为政府应当在东部打击武装叛乱。