When the Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing announced succession plans last year for his vast collection of business holdings, he set an example for other wealthy Asian families grappling with similar issues.
去年，当香港亿万富豪李嘉诚(Li Ka-shing)向外界公布，谁将会继承他那庞大的产业的时候，他已经为其他面临同样问题的亚洲富裕家庭做出了榜样。
Under the plans announced by Mr. Li, 85, ownership and management of his Cheung Kong Group will be transferred to his elder son, Victor. Mr. Li’s younger son, Richard, will receive funding to continue to build up his own assets.
李嘉诚现年85岁，根据其继承计划，他的长子李泽钜(Victor)将拥有长江实业集团(Cheung Kong Group)并负责集团运营。次子李泽楷(Richard)则会得到家族资本支持，继续发展自己的事业.
Though Mr. Li, Asia’s richest person, said he had no plans to retire, he also made it clear that the arrangement was made to avoid any “conflict” between his two sons.
作为亚洲首富的李嘉诚曾经说过，自己并没有退休计划，他也明确提出，之所以做出上述安排，是为了避免两个儿子之间出现任何"纷争"。
Asian family firms whose founders are preparing to pass the baton to a new generation will all, sooner or later, confront the need to plan not only for management succession, but also for ownership succession. The two are not always the same, and decisions can be fraught with emotion and tension, according to financial advisers and private bankers.
亚洲家族企业创始人在准备将权杖授予下一代的时候，或早或迟，他们都会面对这样一个问题：他们不但要考虑运营权的继承，还要考虑财产所有权的继承。一些金融顾问和私人银行人员就评论说，因为运营权和所有权常常并不一致，做决定的时候必须全盘考虑情感因素，处理各种紧张关系。
Common mistakes family patriarchs make — and in this generation it is usually a patriarch — include failing to plan ahead, failing to appreciate that ownership and management succession are connected and must be dealt with in tandem, and lack of involvement of and communication between the generations.
之前，这些豪富家族往往有好几个决策者，而现在这代人中往往只有一位决策者。他们经常在财产继承问题上有这样那样的失算，比方说没有提前计划好，没有认识到财产的运营权和所有权是密切联系的两个问题，两个问题必须同时处理，还有就是几代家族成员之间缺乏沟通，没有听取后代的意见。
“Planning succession is not a one-off exercise, but an ongoing process,” said Mario Marconi, global head of family services at UBS Wealth Management.
马里奥·马可尼(Mario Marconi)是瑞银财富管理(UBS Wealth Management)家族服务部门的全球负责人，他认为：“继承计划不是一蹴而就的，而是一个持续的过程。”
“I think it’s common sense, but you should start early and start pragmatically and learn as you go on,” Mr. Marconi said. “Don’t try to over-engineer.” He cited the example of a family who came to him recently with a 40-page “family constitution, which clearly they hadn’t fully understood,” he said.
马可尼先生认为，“不难理解的是，你确实要及早计划，带着务实态度开始行动，并在过程中不断吸取教训。千万不要搞得太复杂。”他举了一个例子，有这样一个前来咨询他的家族，拿过来一份长达四十页的“家族宪法”。他说：“但是很明显，他们也没有完全搞懂这份文件。”
Families should “start simply and fine-tune as you go,” Mr. Marconi said, but they cannot avoid “the big decision” — whether the family business will be managed by a member of the family or by a professional, and who will be in charge.
马可尼说，豪富家族应当“开始时想得简单些，随着时间推移再不断调整”。但是到头来，还是必须作出“那个重大的决定”——也就是说，家族产业究竟是由某位家族成员执掌，还是交由职业经理人；还有就是具体的决策者是谁。
“It doesn’t mean you need to decide from the start who your successor will be, but you need to have general structure in place,” he said. “You need to have some clarity.”
马可尼说：“这并不是说，一开始你就必须决定继承人到底是谁，但是你必须有一个大致的框架。有些东西一定要清楚。”
One of the most critical junctures for a family firm is the “need to distinguish and manage separately the family, business and wealth,” Mr. Marconi said.
马可尼说，对于家族企业而言，最关键的一点是：“必须把家族、产业和财富区分开来，然后分别进行管理。”
Founders of family firms are used to holding a three-pronged leadership role: chief executive of the business, controlling shareholder and head of the family.
家族企业的创始人已经习惯一肩担三责：既是企业的首席执行官，又是控股股东和家长。
“As business families move into the next generation, it is common to see the founder seek to place the same three leadership roles on a single member of the next generation. But success here requires three things to be aligned,” said Bernard Fung, head of family office services and philanthropy advisory in the Private Banking Asia Pacific division of Credit Suisse.
伯纳德·冯(Bernard Fung)是瑞士信贷亚太区私人银行部(Private Banking Asia Pacific division of Credit Suisse)家族服务和慈善咨询办公室的负责人。他说，“在下一代接掌家族企业时，我们经常看到，创始人试图找出一位新生代成员，来肩负起这三重责任。但是想要获得成功，就一定要处理好三者的关系。”
“First, the person must be able and willing to assume the three roles. Second, there needs to have been a systematic preparation of the individual for the various roles well in advance. Third, the chosen individual needs to have the support of the generational peers to lead in all these areas.
“首先，这位家族成员必须有能力，有意愿同时肩负三责。第二，必须提前做好全面准备，让这位继承人及早获得扮演不同角色的能力。第三，这位选定的继承人要想做好上述三个方面的领导者，他必须获得同辈人的支持。”
“Founders fail to realize that if succession is to fall to an individual next-generation member, all three aspects of leadership are necessary — and that this is a highly idealized situation,” Mr. Fung said. “If one or more aspect is absent, this model of succession is unlikely to succeed.”
冯先生说：“创始人经常忽略的是，如果要将权力传给下一代某位家庭成员，那么此人必须具备这三个方面的领导力——但这只是一个极端理想的情况。如果这个继承人在其中一两个方面有缺失，这类继承模式很难获得成功。”
Another common mistake that founders make is trying to divide leadership responsibility equally among siblings by, say, giving each an unrelated business area or division to run.
另一个创始人经常出现的错误是，将领导责任在下一代若干兄弟姐妹之间平均分配，比方说，将不相关的业务或者部门交给不同的继承人。
“In such cases, there is the semblance of an orderly succession for a period of time and everyone is running their own area for the collective good,” Mr. Fung said. But “often the next-generation successors are unable to actually work together towards decisions — for example, to decide how family funds are to be deployed across various businesses that differ in return profile and demand for capital.”
冯先生说：“在这类情况中，一段时间里家族继承看起来是很平稳的，似乎每个人都在为了家族利益，管理好自己的那一部分。”但是，“第二代继承人通常很难真正相互配合，做出什么决策——比方说，如果有好几项业务，相互之间利润回报和资本需求各不相同，那么家庭成员很难决定应当怎样利用家族资本。”
In some cases Asian family firms simply fail to pass the baton because the successors cannot make decisions together about the future of the business or because the owners reach a point where they stop supporting the new management of the business, according to Christian Stewart, managing director of Family Legacy Asia, a firm based in Hong Kong that provides advice to families on succession issues.
在一些案例中，亚洲的家族企业在传承问题上遭遇失败，因为继承人根本没有办法一道决定家族生意的未来，或者各位股东不再支持管理业务的新经理人，亚洲家庭遗产公司(Family Legacy Asia)董事总经理克里斯蒂安·斯图尔特(Christian Stewart)说。该公司位于香港，主要就继承问题为家族提供咨询。
“The founder often doesn’t seem to think about whether his children can actually work together in the future or not, and often they are not given a chance to learn how to work together,” Mr. Stewart said. He pointed to the example of the Kam family’s feud over Yung Kee, a Michelin-starred restaurant in Hong Kong, with siblings fighting each other in court because they were unable to agree on the running of the business after their father died.
斯图尔特说：“创始人似乎常常并不考虑，几个孩子未来是否能相互协作，而通常这些孩子也根本没有机会去学习如何相互协作。”他举出了香港米其林餐厅镛记(Yung Kee)的例子，甘氏家族的成员间长期不和，几位兄弟姊妹纷纷诉至公堂，因为他们没有办法在父亲百年之后，协商出公司运营的统一思路。
Many business founders also assume that new family leaders will get along with new shareholders, Mr. Stewart said.
斯图尔特还提出，很多企业创始人认为，新的家族掌舵人能够跟新股东们和平相处。
“Founders have usually never been accountable to anyone in their family, and so while they are grooming a successor to be a good manager, they are not always teaching them to be accountable to the future family member shareholders,” he said. “I think that within a family firm, accountability to the family members as shareholders is a key component of a successful succession.”
他说：“创始人基本上从来不需要对家里人解释什么，所以当他们培养下一代继承人成为优秀管理者的时候，创始人一般不会教他们，要对未来的家族企业股东进行解释和说明。我认为，在一个家族企业里，把家庭成员当成是企业股东，对他们进行解释，是成功传承的关键组成部分。”
Similarly, many family firms do not take the time to prepare the next generation for leadership roles, Mr. Fung said. “They operate as if somehow a next generation is born with the knowledge and wisdom needed to preserve and grow the family businesses.”
同样的，许多家族企业没有把时间花在培养下一代的领导能力上，这是冯先生的观点。“他们的操作模式，就好像是说，下一代天生就拥有足够的智慧和知识，能够守业，能够让家族企业蒸蒸日上。”
Worse still, he said, many of those placed on boards are assured by the prior generation that their elders will be there to support them. “Aside from any issues related to good corporate governance, this may actually hamper the development of the next generation in their long-term role,” Mr. Fung said.
他说，更糟糕的是，很多继承人被赋予董事职务，父辈们却向他们保证，长辈们会为他们提供帮助。冯先生说，“就算不考虑好的公司治理结构，这种安排实际上会影响下一代长期的能力发展。”
All that said, Mr. Fung says that more family firms are becoming more proactive in planning for succession.
尽管存在这样那样的问题，冯先生还是表示，在家族传承的问题上，家族企业表现得越来越积极主动。
“While not always a comfortable thing to do, they are sharing the issues and challenges with their peers, and also involving one or more trusted advisers who not only have a practical understanding of the issues but are also aligned to the long-term success of the family firm,” he said.
他说：“虽然做起来会感到不太舒服，但是他们开始把遇到的问题和挑战拿出来，跟同辈人讨论，并邀请一个或者多个信得过的顾问进行讨论。这些顾问不但对于问题有着切实的理解，其自身利益也与相关家族企业的长期利益相一致。”
There is also an emerging awareness that the firm’s business is likely to evolve in the next generation — think of the plantation companies in Asia that are morphing into land banks for property development — and families are beginning to set aside capital to enable this evolution to take place more smoothly. This also allows the next generation to “try to create value for the family” while minimizing risk to the family firm, Mr. Fung said.
而且，创始人也已经开始意识到，家族事业会在下一代的手里发生转型——你不妨设想一下那些亚洲的农业庄园企业，逐渐演变成开发地产的土地银行——与此同时，家族开始为顺利转型留出资本。冯先生说，这样一来，下一代能够“试着为家族创造价值”，同时减少家族企业面临的风险。
As the transfer of authority and ownership gets under way, keeping communications open between the generations is key, advisers say.
在家族权威和所有权发生转移的同时，顾问们建议，成功的关键在于保持几代人之间的沟通公开而畅通。
“The process will go more smoothly if you involve the various generations in your planning,” Mr. Marconi said.
马可尼先生说：“如果在做计划的时候，就充分听取几代人的意见，整个交接过程就会更加顺利。”
Mr. Fung agreed. “As early as possible, the next generation should be exposed to the leadership and ownership issues that they will face, and also be given the opportunity to provide their appropriate input,” he said.
冯先生同意这个论断。他说：“下一代应该尽早接触到他们日后作为领导和股东将会面对的问题，也要赋予他们机会，做出恰当的贡献。”
The elder generation should remain present in the firm, he added — but as “mentors, not as markers or checkers.”
冯先生还说，老一辈应该继续留在公司里——但是“是作为导师，而不是引导者，或是监督者。”
“Its greatest contribution to the longevity of the family firm is to provide a safe environment for the next generation to try, to fail and to learn,” he said.
他说：“要想家族企业基业长青，最好的办法就是给下一代提供一个安全的环境，他们能够去尝试，去失败，去学习。”