Nam Kee Noodles is a typical Hong Kong eatery: functional, popular and busy. A dozen plastic-topped tables offer room for about 40 patrons, who line up outside at lunchtime to consume spicy noodle soup, dumplings and iced soy milk amid the clatter of plastic bowls and chopsticks.
南记粉面是一家典型的香港餐厅：高效、受欢迎、忙碌。十几张塑料台面的餐桌可供约40名顾客进餐。午餐时分，客人们会在外面排队，塑料碗筷的哗啦声中等待享用辣味汤面、饺子和冰豆浆。
In April, however, the little restaurant in the heart of Causeway Bay, one of Hong Kong’s busiest shopping districts, nearly had to shut down after the landlord tripled what was an already expensive rent.
然而今年4月，房东将原已昂贵的租金涨了三倍，这家位于铜锣湾心脏地带的小餐馆差点儿关了门。铜锣湾是香港最繁华的购物区之一。
“We were paying around 200,000 dollars a month,” said Au Kei-Hong, the shop’s manager, referring to an amount in Hong Kong dollars equivalent to about $25,800. “But the landlord then increased it to 600,000. It was too expensive. We cannot afford that.”
“我们原来每个月要付大概20万港币，”店经理欧基鸿(Au Kei-Hong)说，这个数字折合人民币约15.8万元。“但是房东却要把它提高到60万。这太贵了。我们负担不起。”
After frantic negotiations, Mr. Au agreed to a less dramatic — though still steep — increase that has allowed him to stay put for another year.
经过紧张的协商，欧基鸿谈妥了一个依然很高但没那么吓人的价格，这使他能够再维持一年的经营。
Others have not been so lucky. Soaring rents have forced at least three other small businesses on the same Causeway Bay street to move or close down in the past few months, and similar tales of woe are commonplace among small businesses in other prime areas in the bustling and crowded city.
其他人就没这么幸运了。在过去几个月，飞涨的租金已经迫使至少三家开在铜锣湾同一条街上的小店搬迁或关门。在这座繁忙而拥挤的城市，对开在黄金地段的小商家来说，类似的悲惨故事十分常见。
Rapid growth and sweeping economic changes have pushed up retail rents in many of Asia’s growing metropolises in recent years. But nowhere have they reached the stratospheric heights that they have in Hong Kong, a banking, logistics and trading hub that is seen by many companies as a testing ground and launching pad for the vastly larger mainland Chinese market.
近年来，在亚洲许多发展中的大城市，高速增长和全面的经济变革推高了商铺租金。但没有哪个地方像香港这样，租金已涨到不可思议的地步。为了进军更为广阔的大陆市场，许多企业将这座银行业、物流业和贸易中心视作一个试验场和发射台。
Hong Kong’s residential property prices have come off their recent highs mainly because of government measures intended to cool demand — but those measures do not affect retail rents.
香港住宅房产的价格已经从最近的高点跌落，主要是因为政府出台政策为楼市降温，但这些举措并未影响到商铺租金。
“It’s a normal phenomenon for small retailers to be squeezed out by high rents. It happens everywhere,” said Joe Lin, executive director of retail services at the real estate services firm CBRE in Hong Kong. “But in Hong Kong, the pressures have become very severe in the last two to three years — it’s very unhealthy. Luxury and jewelry now dominate 90 percent of the space in prime locations. The whole trade mix in some of these areas has changed.”
“小型零售商被高租金挤出热门地段，这是一种正常现象。在哪儿都是这样，”香港房地产服务公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)负责零售服务的执行董事连志豪(Joe Lin)说。“但在香港，这种压力在过去两三年已达到非常严重的地步，这是很不健康的。在黄金地段，奢侈品和珠宝店现在占据了90%的店面。这些地段的业态已经被完全改变了。”
Causeway Bay, where Nam Kee Noodles is struggling to survive among high-end clothing and watch retailers, commands the most expensive retail rents in the world: an average of 1,950 dollars per square foot per month, according to an update on first-quarter figures for this year from Cushman & Wakefield, a real estate consulting firm.
在高端服装和手表零售店林立的铜锣湾，南记粉面正艰难求生，这里的商铺租金世界最高：每平方英尺的月租金为1950港币（约合每平方米1.65万元人民币），这一数据来自房地产资讯公司高纬物业(Cushman & Wakefield)今年第一季度更新的数据。
Two other Hong Kong neighborhoods, Tsim Sha Tsui and Central, also rank among the top five most expensive locations in the world — along with Fifth Avenue and Times Square in New York — easily topping luxury shopping destinations like the Champs-Élysées in Paris and the Ginza in Tokyo.
香港另外两个地区——尖沙咀和中环——也位列世界最昂贵的五个地段（另外两个是纽约的第五大道和时代广场），它们都轻易超过了包括巴黎香榭丽舍大街和东京银座在内的奢侈品购物区。
That has squeezed out many of the colorful mom and pop stores — hardware shops, fruit stalls, herbal medicine vendors, restaurants — that form a large part of Hong Kong’s business ecosystem, changing the face of many neighborhoods in the process.
这已经赶走了许多颇具特色的夫妻店：五金店、水果摊、中草药店和餐馆，它们是香港商业生态中的一大组成部分，它们的离去正逐渐改变着许多街区的面貌。
A few minutes’ walk from Central, which is home to Hong Kong’s financial district, Ngau Kee Food Café, which for many years sold traditional Cantonese dishes to diners perched on rickety stools, shut down in April after the landlord raised the rent from 49,000 dollars to 120,000 dollars per month.
中环是香港的金融区，从这里步行几分钟就到了牛记茶室，多年来食客们坐在这里摇摇晃晃的凳子上享用传统的粤菜。然而在今年4月，当房东将月租金从4.9万港币提高到12万时，它关门了。
The restaurant’s owner, Mak Ping-Kuen, is hoping to open up again in another part of town but has struggled to find a new site.
牛记茶室的老板麦炳权(Mak Ping-Kuen)希望在市中心其他地方重新开张，但是至今还没找到一个新的店面。
“I hope we can reopen as soon as possible. My customers are getting impatient,” he said.
“我希望我们可以尽早重新开张。我的顾客们都等得不耐烦了，”他说。
Nearby, two popular bars in the SoHo district have closed in the past few months, again because the owners could not afford big rent increases.
在这附近，两家位于苏豪区颇受欢迎的酒吧也在最近几个月关门谢客，同样也是因为店主负担不起飞涨的房租。
And Tsui Yuen Desserts, which sold delicacies like ginger-flavored milk custard and sweet black sesame soup for less than 20 dollars a bowl, had to relocate from Causeway Bay to Wan Chai, a neighborhood more geared to nightlife than to hungry tourists.
翠苑甜品专家出售姜汁撞奶和黑芝麻糊等美食，一碗的价格不到20港币，它不得不从铜锣湾迁到湾仔，那一带以夜生活为特色，却不是饥饿的游客常去的地方。
“Sure, we have some old customers who still come for a bowl of dessert, but it’s a lot quieter now,” said Tsui Yuen’s manager, Mr. Ho, who would give only his last name. “We want to go back to Causeway Bay, but we can’t. Even a small little shop would cost us 200,000 dollars a month. Going back would bankrupt us.”
“当然，我们还是会有一些老顾客过来吃一碗甜品，但比以前的生意要清淡多了，”翠苑甜品专家的何经理说，他只愿意透露他的姓。“我们想要回到铜锣湾，但我们回不去。就算只是一家很小的店也要20万一个月。回去的话我们就要破产了。”
In their place have come luxury-goods retailers and jewelry and cosmetics shops, which have flocked en masse into Hong Kong in recent years in a bid to cater to a flood of shoppers from neighboring mainland China.
它们原来的地方则成了奢侈品、珠宝和化妆品零售店，最近几年，为了迎合来自相邻的中国大陆地区的大量消费者，这类商铺集中涌至香港。
The British retailer Topshop, for example, opened a large store in Central — its first in greater China — in early June, while Apple and the Japanese retailer Uniqlo opened huge outlets just around the corner from Nam Kee Noodles in the past few months.
例如，6月初，英国零售商Topshop在中环开了一家规模很大的店，这也是它在大中华地区的第一家店，而过去几个月，苹果(Apple)和日本零售商优衣库(Uniqlo)都在离南记粉面不远的地方开了大型店铺。
Taxes on high-end goods are far lower in Hong Kong than in mainland China, so it is those goods in particular that are popular with mainland shoppers. At the same time, the number of visitors from the mainland has soared since travel restrictions for them were loosened in 2003 to help Hong Kong weather the economic blow dealt by an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, that year. In 2002, 6.8 million mainlanders visited Hong Kong. Last year, the number was 35 million.
香港的奢侈品税要远低于大陆，因此这类商品特别受到大陆消费者的欢迎。于此同时，自从2003年放松了对大陆赴香港旅行的限制之后，大陆游客的人数飞涨。2003年，严重急性呼吸道综合症(SARS)的爆发打击了香港的经济，对旅行限制的放松是为了帮助香港度过危机。2002，680万大陆人访问香港。去年，这一数字是3500万。
The money spent by those visitors has helped drive economic growth in Hong Kong and now makes up a sizable chunk of the economy and the local job market.
这些游客的消费帮助推动了香港经济的增长，如今这已构成了香港经济可观的一部分，也帮助了本地的就业市场。
Chinese visitors spent the equivalent of almost $23 billion in Hong Kong in 2012 — equal to about 9 percent of gross domestic product — and that figure, said Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, is likely to rise to about $60 billion by 2015.
2012年，大陆游客在香港消费近230亿美元，这相当于本地国内生产总值的9%，香港汇丰银行(HSBC)的经济学家郭浩庄(Donna Kwok)认为，到2015年，这一数字很可能会上升到约600亿美元。
On the flip side, Hong Kong’s resulting attractiveness to companies that want to lure those visitors has helped drive up retail and office rents.
从另一方面来说，对于那些想要招揽这些游客的商家来说，香港对它们的这种吸引力已帮助推高了商铺和写字楼的租金。
Shop rents in Causeway Bay, for example, have risen about 80 percent since mid-2010, and have more than doubled since 2007, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
例如，高纬环球的分析显示，从2010年年中至今，铜锣湾的店铺租金已经上涨了80%，较2007年上涨了两倍还多。
Moreover, no relief is in sight any time soon, although the mainland Chinese economy is cooling, analysts believe.
然而，分析人士认为，虽然大陆的经济已开始放缓，但香港的租金上涨在短期内看不到任何放缓的迹象。
“China’s economy may be slowing, but this does not mean that demand is going to evaporate,” Ms. Kwok said. “Chinese shoppers will keep coming to Hong Kong.”
“中国的经济可能正在减速，但这并不意味着需求会消失，”郭浩庄说。“大陆消费者还是会继续来香港。”
And as long as that is the case, Mr. Lin of CBRE said, retailers will want to beef up their presence in the city, ensuring that shop rents will stay high.
世邦魏理仕的连志豪表示，只要这种情况不变，零售商们就会希望扩大它们在香港的经营规模，这会确保店铺租金继续停留在高位。
“Ten or 20 percent increases over the years were reasonable. But a 100 percent increase — we can’t pay that,” added Mr. Ho of Tsui Yuen Desserts. “How many bowls would we have to sell just to cover the rent?”
“这些年，租金涨个10%或20%是合理的。但是翻一倍，我们付不出，”翠苑甜品专家的何经理补充说。“要卖多少碗甜品才能把租金赚回来啊？”