President Obama’s decision to engage in a lengthy battle to defeat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria reorders the global priorities of his final years in office. The mystery is whether it will deprive him of the legacy he had once hoped would define his second term, or enhance it instead.
奥巴马总统决定为打败伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）展开一场旷日持久的战争，这表明他调整了自己任期剩余时间里国际政策的优先顺序。问题是，对于奥巴马期望留下的能定义他的第二任期的政治遗产，这样做究竟会产生负面作用，还是带来积极影响？
Until now, Mr. Obama’s No. 1 priority in the Middle East has been clear: preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.
在这一刻之前，奥巴马在中东地区的首要任务一直很明确：阻止伊朗获得核武器。
Israeli officials, who by happenstance arrived in Washington this week for their regular “strategic dialogue,” immediately argued that ISIS was a distraction from that priority. Their fear is that the Iranians, finding themselves on the same side of the fight against ISIS as the United States, would use it as leverage to extract concessions from the president.
本周凑巧来到华盛顿进行常规“战略对话”的以色列官员立即提出，ISIS会分散美国在这项任务上的注意力。他们担心，发现自己与美国站在同一边抗击ISIS的伊朗会以此为筹码，迫使奥巴马做出让步。
“ISIL is a five-year problem,” Yuval Steinitz, Israel’s strategic affairs minister, said a few hours before Mr. Obama addressed the nation on Wednesday night, using the acronym the Obama administration employs to describe the Sunni extremist group. “A nuclear Iran is a 50-year problem,” he said, “with far greater impact.”
“ISIL是一个五年问题，”以色列战略部长尤瓦尔·施泰尼茨(Yuval Steinitz)在奥巴马周三夜间对全国发表讲话之前几小时说。他话里采用的是奥巴马政府提到这一逊尼派极端组织时使用的缩写。“而拥有核武器的伊朗是一个持续50年的问题，”他说，“影响要大得多。”
Other Israeli officials warned the Obama administration that the new American operation would bolster Iran’s ambitions for regional dominance.
其他一些以色列官员也对奥巴马政府发出警告，称美国的新举动将助长伊朗夺取地区主导权的野心。
Mr. Steinitz may prove to be right. The Bush administration’s decision to invade Iraq 11 years ago distracted it from many things — notably the war in Afghanistan — and Iran used that time to vastly expand its capacity to produce nuclear fuel. But there is a countertheory as well: that a president who for five years made clear that he was looking for a way out of the bog of the Middle East may have a chance to re-establish American credibility in the region if the strategy he described on Wednesday night is well executed.
施泰尼茨的观点或许会被证明是正确的。11年前，布什政府出兵伊拉克的决定就分散了美国在许多方面的注意力——最突出的就是阿富汗战争——而伊朗利用那段时间极大地提高了生产核燃料的能力。不过，事情还有另外一面：五年来，奥巴马一直明确表示他在寻找一种跳出中东泥潭的方式，而这一次，倘若他周三晚间描述的战略得到很好的实施，他可能有机会重新确立美国在该地区的信誉。
“If this goes well, and the United States is seen as acting effectively, it could generate political capital,” said Richard N. Haass, who served in the administration of the first President George Bush — the coalition-builder Mr. Obama says he most admires — as well as that of George W. Bush. “There’s the chance it will be something of an investment in the region. But that is going to require constant rudder checks, to make sure the administration’s broader goals do not go off course.”
“如果事情进展顺利，美国的行动被视作切实有效，政治资本可能就会随之产生，”理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N. Haass)说。他曾先后在两位布什总统的政府任职，而奥巴马称前者为自己最钦佩的联盟建设者。“存在把它变成对中东地区的一种投资的机会。但是这将需要经常留意我们行进的方向，确保政府那些更宏观的目标不会偏离轨道。”
It is the fear of veering off course that most haunts Mr. Obama’s current and former top national security aides. Even before the rise of ISIS, they looked at the calendar and worried.
奥巴马的现任及前任国家安全顾问最担心的，就是偏离轨道。早在ISIS出现之前，他们就会看着日历，忧心忡忡。
Mr. Obama once saw the reorientation of American focus to the Pacific as his greatest long-term contribution to “rebalancing” American priorities. Tom Donilon, a former national security adviser to Mr. Obama, often described it this way: “We inherited a world in which we were overinvested in the Middle East and underinvested in Asia.”
奥巴马一度认为，将美国的重点转向太平洋地区，是他为美国优先策略的“再平衡”所做的最大的长期贡献。曾担任奥巴马国家安全顾问的汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)经常这样描述此事：“我们接手了这样一个世界：对中东投入过多，而对亚洲投入过少。”
In setting out to conduct the rebalancing, Mr. Obama argued that America’s long-term economic interests and prosperity lie in how it manages China’s rise. By implication, the Middle East was an economic drag and a military sinkhole.
准备实施再平衡政策的时候，奥巴马提出，美国的长期经济利益和繁荣取决于如何应对中国的崛起。言外之意，中东地区则是一个经济累赘和军事负担。
Yet over the past year, there has been a broad sense that the effort has stalled, along with several others. And in his speech on Wednesday, Mr. Obama said nothing about the opportunity cost of his strategy: How would he ensure that 60 percent of America’s military might is in the Pacific — the goal the Pentagon has laid out — while ramping up the fight in Iraq and Syria? How would he square that with the commitment he made just a week ago to bolster NATO in Eastern Europe, part of another long-term effort, to contain Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia? Or his desire to focus the world on longer-term threats like global warming and cyberattacks?
然而过去一年里，人们纷纷意识到，这项努力已经与其他几项工作一样停滞不前。此外，奥巴马在周三的演讲中对自身策略的机会成本只字未提：他如何能确保把美国60%的军事力量放在太平洋地区——这是国防部已然提出的目标——同时又要加大在伊拉克和叙利亚的作战力度？他将如何协调这一策略与他一周前刚刚做出的承诺，即增强北约(NATO)在东欧的军事存在——属于另一项长期工作——从而遏制弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)领导下的俄罗斯？抑或是，他把全世界的注意力集中到全球变暖和网络攻击等长期威胁上的意愿又该何处安放？
So far, Mr. Obama’s national security team has suggested that the efforts are not mutually exclusive. They note that the Pentagon has maintained a counterterrorism program in Yemen and Somalia, the two efforts Mr. Obama compared to the operation against ISIS, while the C.I.A. has run a larger operation, under covert-action authorities, against Al Qaeda and the Pakistani Taliban inside Pakistan.
截至目前，奥巴马的国家安全团队表示，这些努力并非相互排斥。他们指出，五角大楼持续在也门和索马里实施反恐计划，而中央情报局(CIA)则凭借秘密行动授权，开展了针对巴基斯坦境内的基地组织(Al Qaeda)及塔利班的一项规模更大的行动。奥巴马拿来与打击ISIS类比的，正是美国在也门和索马里的行动。
But the goal of degrading and ultimately destroying ISIS requires an effort of a different scale. It goes beyond the “light footprint” strategy that the president used in his first term, which included hundreds of drone attacks against targets in Pakistan and Yemen, a cyberattack on Iran’s nuclear facilities, and the use of special forces against pirates, terrorist cells and Osama bin Laden.
然而，削弱并最终摧毁ISIS的目标所需的努力不同往常，超出了奥巴马总统在第一届任期内采用的“轻足迹”战略的范畴。该战略包括，对巴基斯坦和也门境内的目标发起数百场无人机攻击，对伊朗核设施发动网络攻击，以及动用特种部队对付海盗、恐怖分子巢穴和奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)。
Mr. Obama on Wednesday described a far more sustained effort, in which building and sustaining a coalition, and training Arab forces at a new base in Saudi Arabia, will take time and constant attention.
奥巴马周三描述的是一场持续时间会长得多的行动，其中组建并维持一个联盟，以及在沙特的一处新基地训练阿拉伯部队，均需要时间和持续的关注。
For the Chinese, this is most likely good news. One recently retired Chinese general noted during the Iraq war that America always seems to let the urgent blowups in the Middle East distract it from the slow, grinding shifts of power in Asia. Unless Mr. Obama backs away from his commitment to shrink the Pentagon budget, it is hard to understand how the United States will be able to do all he would like to do.
对中国而言，这极有可能是好消息。前不久退役的一名中国将领曾在伊拉克战争期间指出，美国似乎总会让中东爆发的紧急事件，分散它对亚洲缓慢且令其痛苦的力量转移的注意力。除非奥巴马放弃缩减五角大楼预算的承诺，否则很难厘清美国如何能够实现他构想的那一切。
How this will affect Iran is a far more complex question.
此举对伊朗会有什么影响，更是一个复杂得多的问题。
Mr. Obama never mentioned Iran in his speech. But it has been a frequent subject of conversation inside the Situation Room and at the off-the-record previews of his strategy that Mr. Obama has held for a stream of foreign policy experts and journalists. The new effort, senior administration officials say, certainly puts them on the same side of the fight as the Iranians, who reportedly have put their elite Quds Force on the ground.
奥巴马在讲话中对伊朗只字未提。但在白宫局势研究室内，以及奥巴马预先在非公开场合向一众外交政策专家及记者介绍自己的策略时，这是一个频繁出现的话题。奥巴马政府的高级官员表示，这一新的努力必然会让美国和伊朗站在战场的同一边。据报道，伊朗已经派出精锐部队圣城军(Quds Force)参与地面行动。
“The Iranians may well think we need them to help defeat ISIS and that this will make us more accommodating in the nuclear negotiations,” said Robert Einhorn of the Brookings Institution, who was part of the American negotiating team with the Tehran government until last year, and had responsibility for enforcing sanctions. “If they do think that, it is an illusion.”
“伊朗很可能会觉得，我们需要他们的协助来打败ISIS，而这会让我们在核谈判中更通融，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的罗伯特·艾因霍恩(Robert Einhorn)说。“如果他们真这么想，就是一种错觉。”去年之前，艾因霍恩是与德黑兰政府进行谈判的美方谈判团成员，负责实施贸易制裁。