When the prodigious Miami collectors Don and Mera Rubell first visited China, in 2001, they found the artists they met fascinating, but they were frankly unimpressed by the art itself. “It was our most intense trip with the least amount of art,” Mr. Rubell said. “Many of the artists seemed to be making work for export.”
著名的迈阿密收藏家唐·卢贝尔(Don Rubell)和梅拉·卢贝尔(Mera Rubell)在2001年第一次访问中国时，发现他们遇见的艺术家让人着迷，可是他们一点都没被那些艺术作品本身所打动。卢贝尔先生说，“这是我们行程最紧张，所获艺术品最少的一次旅行。许多艺术家似乎是为了出口而创作作品。”
Seven years later, the pair returned to a new landscape: a vibrant art world filled with men and women making work that was relevant to social issues in China today and mostly free of the clichés that had characterized contemporary Chinese art in the past. What they saw inspired the Rubells to spend the next five years seeking out artists and gallerists in Beijing, Shanghai and far-flung Chinese cities. And during this year’s Art Basel Miami Beach, the Rubells, who are best known for supporting the works of young American artists, unveiled “28 Chinese,” a new exhibition at their museum in Miami that displays for the first time their acquisitions from six trips to China; it runs through Aug. 1.
七年之后，这对夫妇回到了一个全新的艺术天地：这是一个生机盎然的艺术世界，这里的艺术家都在创作和中国当下的社会议题相关的作品，其中大部分都摆脱了以前的中国当代艺术中，常见的陈旧风格。他们的见闻鼓舞他们花了五年时间，在北京、上海和中国各地的其他城市寻找艺术家和画廊主。在今年的迈阿密海滩巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel Miami Beach)上，以支持美国年轻艺术家而著称的卢贝尔夫妇推出了题为“中华廿八人”(28 Chinese)的展览。这是一次全新的展览，地点在他们位于迈阿密的博物馆里，此次展览首次展出了他们六次前往中国获得的藏品，展览将持续到明年8月1日。
Ms. Rubell, 70, equates finding artists like He Xiangyu, who paints with boiled-down Coca-Cola, and Chen Wei, who photographs surrealistic scenes in his studio, to first encountering the Aaron Curry and Thomas Houseago, California artists who are now hot. Mr. Rubell, 73, a retired gynecologist who now devotes most of his time to his boutique hotel business, said that after visiting Mr. He’s and Mr. Chen’s studios and those of dozens of other artists, “we realized we were seeing something different that blew us away.”
今年70岁的卢贝尔夫人发现了像何翔宇和陈维这样的艺术家，前者用煮干的可口可乐进行创作，后者在自己的工作室拍摄超现实的场景。卢贝尔夫人把这种发现和她与亚伦·柯里(Aaron Curry)及托马斯·豪斯雅戈(Thomas Houseago)的第一次偶遇相提并论，这二人是现在正当红的加州艺术家。今年73岁的卢贝尔先生是一位退休的妇科医生，现在他把大部分时间都用在经营自己的精品酒店业务上。他说，在走访了何翔宇和陈维的工作室，以及其他数十位艺术家的工作室之后，“我们意识到，自己看到了与众不同的艺术品，我们为之深感震动。”
The exhibition at the 45,000-square-foot Rubell Family Collection and Contemporary Arts Foundation, in the Wynwood Art District of Miami, features the work of 28 Chinese artists, each given a separate gallery. There is “Ton of Tea,” by Ai Weiwei, a huge cube of expensive Pu’er tea that resembles a Chinese Donald Judd, and “Diary, by Zhang Huan, a canvas based on a Cultural Revolution-era photo of a man in a Mao suit holding a book.
此次展览展出了28位中国艺术家的作品，每位艺术家都被分配了单独的展厅。展览地点是位于迈阿密温伍德艺术区(Wynwood Art District)、占地4.5万平方英尺（约4180平方米）的卢贝尔家族收藏和当代艺术基金会(Rubell Family Collection and Contemporary Arts Foundation)。展品中包括了艾未未的作品《一吨茶》(Ton of Tea)，这是一大块昂贵的立方体普洱茶块，仿佛是中国版的唐纳德·贾德(Donald Judd)作品；还有张洹的作品《日记》(Diary)，这是一幅以文革时期的照片为基础创作的画作，画中是一名身着中山装、手拿日记本的男子。
But, for the most part, the work departs from “made in China” iconography, especially the tapestries of the Shanghai artist Xu Zhen, next year’s commissioned artist for the spring Armory Show in New York, or the geometric abstractions of Liu Wei, who had a recent exhibition at his New York gallery, Lehmann Maupin.
不过，大部分作品都脱离了“中国制造”的标签，尤其是上海艺术家徐震的织物作品。他是明年春天在纽约举行的军械库艺术展(Armory Show)的委托艺术家，还有创作几何抽象艺术的刘韡，他最近在纽约的莱曼莫平画廊(Lehmann Maupin)举办了一次展览。
“The Rubell collection is not an illustrated history of the avant-garde, on the one hand, nor a speculative portfolio, on the other,” said Richard Vine, the author of the book “New China New Art” (Prestel, 2011). “It seems like a personal response, much more than I expected.” He added: “I suspect the lesser-known people they’ve plucked from obscurity will benefit. But I don’t think they are operating like some other collectors, who bought household names, promoted them and then sold them for a profit.”
著有《新中国新艺术》（New China New Art，该书2011年由普雷斯特尔出版社[Prestel]出版）一书的理查德·瓦因(Richard Vine)说，“卢贝尔的收藏既不是为了展示先锋艺术的历史，也不是为了投机。它似乎像是一种个人的回应，比我最初料想的还要像。”他还说，“我推测，这些被他们从发掘出来的鲜为人知的艺术家能够从中受益。有些藏家买进家喻户晓的艺术家的作品，推广这些艺术家，再把艺术品转手进而获利。我不认为卢贝尔夫妇会这样做。”
The Rubells began collecting in the 1960s, as the story, now famous, goes, on a budget of $25 per week — “25 percent of our income,” Ms. Rubell said during a recent trip to Manhattan for contemporary auction week. Their finds have grown into a collection of more than 5,000 works. Studio visits are the heart of the Rubells’ mode of discovering new talent; they have visited at least 100 artists in China over the last few years. Among the first was Mr. Ai, in 2001, before he was the dissident artist he would become.
卢贝尔夫妇从上世纪60年代开始收藏艺术品，一则十分著名的掌故说，他们当时以每周25美元的预算购买藏品。卢贝尔夫人最近到曼哈顿出席当代艺术拍卖周活动时说，“相当于收入的25%。”他们发掘的藏品已经有5000多件。走访工作室是卢贝尔夫妇发掘新人才的核心途径；过去几年，他们已经在中国走访了至少100名艺术家。第一次是在2001年走访艾未未的工作室，那时他还没有成为异见艺术家。
“He was a bit insecure about whether he would be accepted in the West, but was totally the ringleader for all the younger artists at that time,” Mr. Rubell recalled.
卢贝尔回忆说，“他对自己能否被西方接受感到有点没把握，不过在那个时代，他绝对是较年轻的艺术家里的领头人。”
Rather than buy from the artists, as many collectors did in the 1990s, the Rubells purchased through galleries, particularly Long March Space, Shanghart, Urs Meile and Pearl Lam Gallery, thereby helping China’s fledgling gallery scene develop. They also steered clear of auctions, where prices can be highly inflated, and fakes abound.
卢贝尔更愿意通过画廊购买艺术家的作品，尤其是长征空间(Long March Space)、香格纳画廊(Shanghart)、麦勒画廊(Urs Meile)和艺术门(Pearl Lam Gallery)，而不是像上世纪90年代的许多藏家那样，直接从艺术家手中购买，这样做促进了羽翼未丰的中国画廊业的发展。至于拍卖，他们更是碰都不碰，拍卖会上的作品价格可能会被极度夸大，而且赝品遍地都是。
“I would say the single most shocking change in the Chinese art world is that the gallery system is now in effect,” said Mr. Rubell, who argues that the new system has helped to legitimize contemporary Chinese art.
卢贝尔说，“我认为中国艺术界最让人震惊的变化是，现在画廊机制在发挥作用。”他认为，新的画廊机制对中国当代艺术的正名起到了帮助。
The Rubells could be brusque when the art did not appeal to them. “When they didn’t like the work, they would make excuses for running out — but when they liked the artist, they would sit down and have long discussions,” said Ms. Lam, who advised them. One of the artists she steered them to was Zhu Jinshi, the oldest of the show’s artists but still undiscovered when the Rubells met him; his signature style is to ladle paint on calligraphic compositions.
如果艺术品无法吸引他们，卢贝尔夫妇会表现得相当直率。曾为他们充当顾问的艺术门画廊创始人林明珠(Pearl Lam)说，“如果他们不喜欢某件作品，就会借故离开。不过，如果他们喜欢这位艺术家，就会坐下来，和对方长谈。”在她向二人引荐的艺术家中，有一位名叫朱金石的艺术家，他是此次展览中年龄最大的艺术家。不过，当卢贝尔夫妇遇到他时，他依然寂寂无闻；他最有特点的风格是，用勺子泼洒颜料绘制出仿佛书法的作品。
“It was amazing,” Ms. Rubell recalled. “We walked into his studio, and there was 40 years of history in there. We asked if there was more to see, and they took us into three more studios filled with paintings.”
卢贝尔回忆道，“让人很吃惊。我们走进他的工作室，仿佛看到了40年的历史。我们问，有没有别的东西可以看，他们把我们带进了另外三间堆满画作的画室。”
The couple’s son, Jason Rubell, 44, a co-owner of the family business, Rubell Hotels, accompanied his parents on several trips and collaborated on the purchases. “People tend to visualize Chinese art as Warhol-esque, brightly colored figurative stuff, but we found work that is quite conceptual,” he said. “The politics that has been framing the Chinese art scene is there, but in a sophisticated way that is a little more subversive.”
卢贝尔夫妇的儿子，今年44岁的贾森·卢贝尔(Jason Rubell)是家族生意卢贝尔酒店(Rubell Hotels)的共同所有人，他陪伴父母出行过几次，也曾共同出资购买过艺术品。“人们倾向于把中国艺术品想象成沃霍尔(Warhol)风格的、色彩明亮的具象艺术品，可是我们发现了十分概念化的作品，”他说。“那里面蕴含了塑造中国艺术生态的政治概念，不过它是以非常复杂的、颇具颠覆性的方式表现出来的。”
Certain artists in the collection, like Li Songsong, who is represented by Pace, and Zhang Enli, represented by Hauser & Wirth, have sold for more than $700,000 at auction in China. The Rubells, who drive hard bargains with dealers by buying six or eight pieces by an artist at a time, say they rarely spend over six figures for any Chinese work. And while their endorsement is expected to raise prices in this roiling market, they say they are not aiming to sell the work and be beneficiaries of those increases.
此次展览中某些艺术家的作品，在中国的成交价已经超过了70万美元（约425万元人民币），比如由佩斯画廊(Pace)代理的李松松和豪瑟和威尔特画廊(Hauser & Wirth)代理的张恩利。通过一次性地购买某位画家的6幅或8幅作品，卢贝尔家族跟交易商砍价砍得非常狠。他们说他们很少会花六位数的价格收购任何中国作品。有了他们的认可，这些作品的价格在起伏不定的中国艺术品市场里应该会上涨，但他们还是表示无意转卖它们，从这种增长中获利。
“In 50 years of collecting, we’ve put together over 5,000 pieces and we’ve sold less than 20,” Don Rubell said.
唐·卢贝尔说，“在50年的收藏生涯中，我们已经收藏了5000多件藏品，却只卖出了不到20件。”
Reaching a consensus was sometimes a struggle for the three Rubells. “Abstraction was a little difficult at the beginning,” Ms. Rubell said, yet they finally all agreed that geometric abstraction was an important trend. The “28 Chinese” show at the museum includes eight abstract painters’ work, ranging from the calligraphic brush paintings of Lan Zhenghui to the optical illusions of Wang Guangle. Several young artists whom the Rubells admired were already out of their price range, like Sun Xun, who is featured in the “Ink Art” exhibition, which opens Wednesday at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
对于卢贝尔家族的这三名成员来说，达成共识有时候会很艰难。卢贝尔表示，“起初，在抽象艺术上达成一致有点困难。”但他们最终一致同意，几何抽象是一个重要趋势。博物馆的《中华廿八人》展览包括八名抽象画家的作品，从蓝正辉的水墨画到王光乐的视错觉作品。卢贝尔家族称赞的几名年轻艺术家已经超出他们能承受的价格范围，比如参加了“水墨艺术”展的艺术家孙逊。“水墨艺术”展于本周三在大都会艺术博物馆开幕(Metropolitan Museum of Art)开幕。
“It’s tempting to look at Chinese art as these kids who started out, and now they are living in mansions,” the elder Mr. Rubell said. “But the shocking thing is the way they’ve become sentinels for Chinese culture.”
“有这些孩子崭露头角，中国艺术很有看头，如今他们都住上豪宅了，”老卢贝尔说。“但惊人之处在于，他们都成了中国文化的保卫者。”