BEIJING — The toilet paper thieves of the Temple of Heaven Park were an elusive bunch.
北京——天坛公园的厕纸大盗神出鬼没。
They looked like most park visitors, practicing tai chi, dancing in the courtyards and stopping to take in the scent of ancient cypress and juniper trees. But hidden in their oversize shopping bags and backpacks was a secret: sheet upon sheet of crumpled toilet paper, plucked surreptitiously from public restrooms.
他们看起来和大多数公园游客差不多，练太极拳、跳广场舞，停下来嗅闻古柏和杜松树的气味。但他们的大购物袋和背包里藏着一个秘密：从公共厕所里窃取的大量皱皱巴巴的厕纸。
Now the authorities in Beijing are fighting back, going so far as to install high-tech toilet paper dispensers equipped with facial recognition software in several restrooms.
北京当局正在进行反击，他们在几个洗手间里安装了高科技厕纸架，上面安装了人脸识别软件。
Before entering restrooms in the park, visitors must now stare into a computer mounted on the wall for three seconds before a machine dispenses a sheet of toilet paper, precisely two feet in length. If visitors require more, they are out of luck. The machine will not dispense a second roll to the same person for nine minutes.
现在，在进入天坛公园的这些洗手间之前，游客必须盯着安装在墙上的电脑三秒钟，然后机器会提供长度恰好为两英尺的厕纸。如果哪位游客需要更多的厕纸，那就倒霉了。在9分钟内，机器不会给同一个人发第二次厕纸。
At the Temple of Heaven Park, one of Beijing’s busiest tourist sites, many people said on Monday they were pleased by the new machines.
天坛公园是北京最拥挤的旅游景点之一，周一有很多人说，他们很高兴有了这种新机器。
“The people who steal toilet paper are greedy,” said He Zhiqiang, 19, a customer service worker from the northwestern region of Ningxia. “Toilet paper is a public resource. We need to prevent waste.”
“偷厕纸的人太贪心。”19岁的客户服务人员、来自西北省份宁夏的何志强（音），“厕纸是一种公共资源。我们要防止浪费。”
Qin Gang, 63, taking a stroll through the park with his wife, said China’s history of crippling poverty had left some people eager to exploit public goods.
63岁的秦钢（音）和妻子一起在公园里散步，他说中国过去非常贫困，因此一些人总想占用公共物品。
“It’s a very bad habit,” Mr. Qin said. “Maybe we can use technology to change how people think.”
“这是一个很坏的习惯，”秦钢说。“也许我们可以用技术改变人们的想法。”
Not everyone was enthusiastic. Some people, frustrated by the new technology, banged their fists against the machines, which park employees said cost about $720 each.
并不是每个人都喜欢它。有些人被这种新技术搞得气急败坏，用拳头捶打机器。天坛的员工说，每台机器的成本约720美元（约合人民币5000元）。
Other visitors had more exacting critiques.
还有一些游客的批评更加严厉一些。
“The sheets are too short,” said Wang Jianquan, 63, a retired shopping mall manager.
“给的厕纸太短了，”63岁的退休商场经理王建全（音）说。
Chinese officials have worked for years to curb the excessive use of toilet paper in public facilities, in places like Qingdao, a coastal city, and Shanghai. Most public restrooms in China do not provide any toilet paper, while others provide a common roll for visitors to use.
在沿海城市青岛以及上海等地区，中国官员多年来一直在努力解决公共设施过度使用厕纸问题。中国的大多数公共厕所不提供任何厕纸，有些厕所会为游客提供一卷共用的厕纸。
According to a China Radio International report, the Temple of Heaven Park has supplied toilet paper in its public toilets for the last 10 years, but found that supplies were quickly exhausted. A manager of the park said that most of the thieves were local residents, rather than tourists, taking advantage of the free supply for their daily use.
中国国际广播电台的一则报道说，过去10年来，天坛公园都在公厕里提供厕纸，但发现这种耗材消耗的速度很快。公园管理员说，大多数小偷不是游客，而是当地居民，他们把免费提供的厕纸带回家供日常生活使用。
Lei Zhenshan, marketing director for Shoulian Zhineng, the company in Tianjin that designed the device, said in an interview: “We brainstormed many options: fingerprints, infrared and facial recognition. We went with facial recognition, because it’s the most hygienic way.’’
设计该设备的天津公司首联智能(Shoulian Zhineng)营销总监雷振善（音）在接受采访时说：“我们考虑过很多选择：指纹、红外和人脸识别。我们选择了人脸识别，因为它是最卫生的方式。
Mr. Lei said an earlier version of the device was installed last year at the Bird’s Nest stadium in Beijing. An official at the Temple of Heaven, who would not give her name, said the facial recognition dispensers there were on trial, and if judged a success, would be placed in all the park’s toilets.
雷振善说，去年在北京的鸟巢体育场安装了这个设备的一个早期版本。天坛一位不愿意具名的管理者说，人脸识别厕纸机还处在试点阶段，如果成功了，该公园的所有公厕都会安装这种设备。
On social media, some users denounced the experiment as a waste of money. Others said a high-tech toilet paper-dispensing device did not befit the majesty of the Temple of Heaven, a Unesco World Heritage Site and an altar where generations of emperors came to perform sacrificial rites.
在社交媒体上，一些用户谴责这个实验是在浪费钱。还有些人说，高科技厕纸分配机与天坛的威严很不搭调。天坛属于联合国教科文组织世界遗产，曾是一座祭坛，数代帝王在那里举办过祭祀仪式。
“Is there not a solution somewhere between ‘put up a sign’ and ‘install the sort of thing Bond villains use to secure their secret vaults’?’’ Jeremiah Jenne, an American historian and writer in Beijing who organizes tours of historic sites, asked by email.
在北京组织历史遗迹旅行的美国历史学者和作家章志劢(Jeremiah Jenne)说：“在‘张贴标语’和‘安装这种007大反派用来保护秘密巢穴的东西’之间就没有别的方法了吗？”