MOSCOW — For a long time now many Russians have shared a single dream: to see Mikhail Khodorkovsky free. During the 10 years that the former oil tycoon spent in prison, the image of a liberated Khodorkovsky came to symbolize a number of outcomes: a victory for the opposition, the appearance of a bona fide political alternative to President Vladimir Putin, and perhaps even the end of the Putin era.
莫斯科——很长时间以来，很多俄罗斯人都有着同一个梦想：见到米哈伊尔·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail Khodorkovsky)重获自由。在这位前石油大亨身陷囹圄的10年里，他获释的场景渐渐地产生了很多象征意义：反对派的胜利、真正能替代总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)的政治选项的出现，或许还有普京时代的结束。
None of the other 69 political prisoners carried the same symbolic burden. The news last week of an early release for the members of Pussy Riot, who were sentenced to two years for staging an anti-Putin protest in a church, and that charges against several participants in the protest movement would be dropped, was welcome, but it was Putin’s pardon of Khodorkovsky that seemed momentous.
另外69名政治犯中，谁都没有同等的象征意义。因为在一所教堂举行反普京的抗议表演而被判处两年监禁的Pussy Riot成员上周提前获释，数名参与示威活动者受到的指控也被撤销，这都是很受欢迎的举动，然而普京赦免霍多尔科夫斯基一事却有重大的意义。
“I guess something — or someone — important has changed in the last few days,” wrote Lev Rubinshtein, a poet and a prominent essayist, in his blog the day after Putin said he would grant clemency to Khodorkovsky. “But what changed? Who changed? All these years we have accepted the axiom that ‘Khodorkovsky is going to stay behind bars as long as Putin stays president.’ It was an axiom rather than a hypothesis. So what’s changed?”
普京宣称将赦免霍多尔科夫斯基之后，诗人和著名随笔作家列夫·鲁宾施坦(Lev Rubinshtein)在他的博客里写道，“我想某件重要的事，或者某个重要的人，在过去几天里发生了变化。但是发生变化的是什么事，是什么人？这么多年来，我们都像一则公理一样接受了这样的论断：‘只要普京还当总统，霍多尔科夫斯基就会一直关在监狱里。’这可不是假说，而是公理。那么，到底是什么变了呢？”
The answer seems to be: not much. If anything, Putin has claimed a new privilege in his evolution as a dictator: He has allowed himself to be inconsistent. In the past, he distanced himself from Khodorkovsky’s fate, saying the case was a matter for the courts, over which he claimed to have no influence. To receive a presidential pardon, Khodorkovsky would have to admit his guilt, the Kremlin said. As Khodorkovsky’s consecutive sentences ran out, new charges would be piled up. But when Putin apparently felt he had more to gain than lose by releasing Khodorkovsky, he simply changed his mind. After all, he is accountable to no one.
答案似乎是：没什么变化。如果非要说有变化，那就是普京在演变为独裁者的道路上，又取得了一项新的特权：他允许自己出尔反尔。过去，他让自己与霍多尔科夫斯基的命运拉开距离，还说案件是法院的事务，而他号称自己对法院没有影响力。克里姆林宫说，要得到总统的赦免，霍多尔科夫斯基需要首先承认自己有罪。而随着霍多尔科夫斯基一个接一个的刑期结束，总会有新的指控不断涌现。然而，普京在明显感觉释放霍多尔科夫斯基对自己的益处多过损失之后，就轻而易举地改了主意。毕竟，他不需要向任何人负责。
So Khodorkovsky’s release is not a victory Putin’s opponents can claim. But their disappointment runs deeper than that. In his first two days as a free man, Khodorkovsky showed that he would not be an alternative to Putin. In his first interview, published by the independent Russian magazine The New Times, Khodorkovsky acknowledged that he has consented to stay out of Russia for the foreseeable future (he is currently in Germany). He also said he promised Putin not to challenge his power: He has pledged to devote himself to civic activity but will stay away from electoral politics.
所以，尽管霍多尔科夫斯基已经获释，普京的反对者并不能说，这是场胜利。令他们失望的原因比这更深。在重获自由的头两天里，霍多尔科夫斯基已经表示，自己不会成为普京的替代者。在发表于俄罗斯独立杂志《新时代》(The New Times)上的第一份采访中，霍多尔科夫斯基承认，他同意在可预见的未来远离俄罗斯（他现在身在德国）。他还说，曾向普京承诺，不会挑战他的权力：他承诺会投身公民运动，但会远离选举政治。
Most important, it has emerged that Khodorkovsky’s political differences with Putin are not as profound as the liberal intelligentsia that coalesced around him had wished. Asked by The New Times about the North Caucasus, he said, “I think war is a very bad thing, but if it’s a choice between the North Caucasus separating and war, then it’s war.” Pushed by the interviewer, he identified himself as a nationalist — an enlightened nationalist. But when it comes to the nationalist/ Westernist divide, Khodorkovsky places himself on the same side as the Kremlin, albeit proposing a more nuanced position than Putin’s.
最重要的是，霍多尔科夫斯基与普京之间的政治分歧，并没有凝聚在前者周围的自由派知识分子所希望的那样深远。《新时代》问到关于北高加索的问题时，他说，“我认为战争是很糟糕的事。但是如果要在北高加索分裂和发生战争之间做个选择，应该选战争。”在采访者追问之下，他表示自己是一个民族主义者——开明的民族主义者。但论及“民族主义”与“倾向西方”的分歧，霍多尔科夫斯基把自己放在了克里姆林宫的同一边，只是提出的立场比普京更微妙。
Opponents of the Russian regime already have one leader who errs on the side of nationalism, the anti-corruption crusader Alexei A. Navalny, who happens to be the only opposition activist who has created a political machine with volunteers, campaigning skills and some name recognition. Khodorkovsky has dashed any hope that he might lead another, non-nationalist opposition movement.
俄罗斯政权的反对者中，已经有了一个热衷民族主义的领导人物，即反腐败斗士阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Alexei A. Navalny)，而他刚好是仅有的一个建立起了拥有志愿者、造势能力，且有一定知名度的政治机器的反对派活动人士。霍多尔科夫斯基已经打消了可能会领导另外一场，脱离民族主义的反对派运动的任何希望。
Khodorkovsky’s first weekend of interviews and press statements left many Russian liberals disappointed — and bereft of the last clear goal they shared with others who oppose the Kremlin. Just as the initial frenzy of Khodorkovsky interviews and press statements died down, the two members of Pussy Riot were released from penal colonies — and acted exactly the way many people had hoped to see Khodorkovsky act.
霍多尔科夫斯基在第一个周末接受采访和面对媒体时的表态，让许多俄罗斯自由派感到失望，也让他们失去了过去与其他反对克里姆林宫的人士共同追求的最后一个清晰目标。正当霍多尔科夫斯基对媒体的表态最初激发的狂热消退之时，Pussy Riot的两名成员从劳役营中获释，她们做出了许多人希望霍多尔科夫斯基作出的举动。
The contrast could not have been more stark. Khodorkovsky said he had not suffered physically during his years of incarceration but bitterly regretted the time he had lost performing meaningless tasks like putting together cardboard folders. Speaking to the independent Russian television channel TVRain, Nadezhda Tolokonnikova said: “I do not consider this time I have lost. I had a unique experience. It will be easier for me to do human rights work now. I have matured and I have learned what the state looks like from the inside: I have seen the workings of this little totalitarian machine.”
双方的反差十分巨大。霍多尔科夫斯基说，在受到监禁的岁月里，他身体上并没有承受过痛苦，但是却痛心地惋惜在毫无意义的事情上，比如拼装硬纸文件夹，花了太多时间。在对俄罗斯独立电视频道TVRain发言时，娜杰日达·托罗克尼科娃(Nadezhda Tolokonnikova)说：“我不认为我的时间是浪费了，我得到了独特的体验，现在我从事人权事业会更容易。我成熟了，也了解到了从监狱里看国家是什么样子，我见到了这个极权主义小机器内部的运作方式。”
Khodorkovsky’s speech was measured and careful. He indicated that he was staying out of Russia and, at least for the sake of his friends and former colleagues who are still behind bars, staying out of trouble. Tolokonnikova and Maria Alyokhina made it clear they didn’t have much time to chat with journalists because they had things to do, like lead a new movement for the rights of Russian inmates. “Under no circumstances,” said Tolokonnikova, when asked if she might leave the country. “The people who have occupied Russia are the ones who should not be here.”
霍多尔科夫斯基的发言既谨慎又有分寸。他表示自己会离开俄罗斯，而且至少为了还在狱中的朋友和前同事，他也不会再惹麻烦了。托罗克尼科娃和玛丽亚·阿列希娜(Maria Alyokhina)清楚地表示，她们没有多少时间和记者们聊天，因为她们还有事情要做，比如领导一场为俄罗斯囚犯争取权利的运动。在被问及是否会离开俄罗斯时，托罗克尼科娃说，“无论在什么情况下，俄罗斯都不应该由那些不配待在在俄罗斯的人所占据。”
“I do not fear for my life. That would be undignified, that would be wrong. One is given a life in order to act, in order to change the world for the better,” said Tolokonnikova. “Fear is wrong.”
“我不会为了自己的性命而恐惧，那样没有尊严，那样是错的。人被赋予生命是为了有所行动，是为了把世界变得更好，”托罗克尼科娃说。“恐惧是不对的。”