WASHINGTON — When North Korea launched a medium-range missile on Tuesday evening, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson issued a statement so cryptic that it left much of Washington confused.
华盛顿——朝鲜周二晚上发射了一枚中程导弹之后，国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森( Rex Tillerson)发表的声明如此晦涩，让华盛顿的大部分人感到莫名其妙。
“North Korea launched yet another intermediate-range ballistic missile,” it began. “The United States has spoken enough about North Korea. We have no further comment.”
“朝鲜又发射了中程弹道导弹，”声明的开头说。“美国在朝鲜问题上已经说得够多了。我们没有更多评论。”
In fact, the Trump administration has said very little about North Korea, apart from some Twitter posts and Mr. Tillerson’s own statements in Seoul, South Korea, two weeks ago — when he said the United States would negotiate with North Korea only after it gave up its nuclear weapons and missiles. And that is unlikely to happen.
事实上，特朗普政府对朝鲜问题谈得非常少，除了一些Twitter帖子，以及蒂勒森两周前在韩国首尔发表的声明之外——他说美国只有在朝鲜放弃核武器和导弹之后，才会和朝鲜谈判。而那基本上是不可能的事情。
A comprehensive policy review, ahead of the visit of China’s president, Xi Jinping, to the United States this week, came to an unsurprising conclusion: The administration would greatly intensify economic and military pressure on the North for the foreseeable future, and assure the Chinese that, once that pressure was in place, it would consider “engaging” the North Koreans. That is, the United States would negotiate with them, presumably before they have given up their nuclear weapons and missiles, despite Mr. Tillerson’s earlier statements.
在中国主席习近平本周到访美国之前，对美国政策进行的全面检讨得出了一个并不令人意外的结论：在可预见的将来，政府将加大对朝鲜的经济和军事压力，并向中方保证，一旦这个压力到位，它就会考虑和朝鲜人“接触”。也就是说，尽管蒂勒森早些时候有过表态，但美国也许会在朝鲜放弃核武器和导弹之前与他们谈判。
Mr. Tillerson has made clear he will be a secretary of few words, preferring to do his deals behind closed doors and open himself to as little probing of the strategy as possible. But in the absence of much public comment, American allies seem confused about the administration’s strategy of coercive diplomacy.
蒂勒森已经表现得很明显，他是一个话很少的国务卿，更愿意在闭门会议上做交易，同时尽可能少地把策略开放给大家探讨。但是在缺乏公开评论的情况下，盟国似乎对美国政府的强制性外交策略感到困惑。
It is unclear whether the goal is to force the North Koreans to surrender their arsenal, as Mr. Tillerson suggested, or just freeze missile and nuclear tests and open a negotiation. And many of those allies wonder how increasing pressure is likely to succeed when directed against a country that has survived financial cutoffs, trade sanctions and the presence of surrounding military forces for more than six decades.
目前还不清楚他们的目标是像蒂勒森说的那样迫使朝鲜人放弃武器库，还是仅仅冻结朝鲜的导弹和核试验，开启谈判。很多盟友也想知道，鉴于朝鲜能够在60多年的时间挺过金融的截断、贸易制裁以及环伺在侧的军力，给该国增加压力怎么会有用。
The tactics appear to have strong similarities to past efforts. In the 1994 nuclear crisis with North Korea, which former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry later called the closest the two countries have come to war since the 1953 armistice that ended the Korean War, President Bill Clinton built up the American military presence in the South.
这种战术似乎与过去的努力有很大的相似之处。1994年的朝鲜核危机发生时，比尔·克林顿总统增强了美国在韩国的军事存在；前国防部长威廉·J·佩里(William J. Perry)事后回忆，那次危机是自从1953年朝鲜战争停战以来，两国之间最接近开战的一次。
President George W. Bush closed down transactions at a bank in Macau where Kim Jong-il, the predecessor and father of the current North Korean leader, kept his money. (He reluctantly ended those sanctions under pressure from the South Korean government.) President Barack Obama periodically flew B-2 stealth bombers to South Korea, as a reminder that America’s nuclear weapons could easily reach Pyongyang.
总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)停止了与澳门一家银行的交易，那是朝鲜现任领导人的父亲、前领导人金正日存钱的银行（在韩国政府的压力下，他不情愿地结束了这些制裁）。奥巴马总统定期派B-2型隐形轰炸机飞往韩国，目的是提醒朝鲜：美国把核武器投到平壤很容易。
Each of those administrations tried to use the economic and military pressure to start negotiations. Mr. Clinton was the most successful, but even that won only a few years’ respite, as the North secretly began a nuclear enrichment program that was revealed during the Bush administration. A deal the Bush administration struck in its final year fell apart early in the Obama years.
每届政府都试图利用经济和军事压力开启谈判。克林顿是最成功的，但即使那样，也只赢得了几年的缓和时间，朝鲜秘密开始的核浓缩项目在布什政府期间曝光。而布什政府在最后一年达成的交易在奥巴马上台不久就分崩离析了。
Mr. Tillerson has not explained how the strategy he and Mr. Trump plan to present to the Chinese will be substantially different.
蒂勒森没有解释他和特朗普打算向中国人提出的策略将会有多大的不同。
“Poor Tillerson,” Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation expert at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, wrote in The Washington Post after the secretary declared in Seoul two weeks ago that the era of “strategic patience” was over.
蒂勒森两周前在首尔发布声明，说“战略耐心”时代已经结束，蒙特雷的米德尔伯里国际研究学院(Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey)的防扩散专家杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)在《华盛顿邮报》上写道：“可怜的蒂勒森。”
“Someone forgot to tell him that a new administration promising a new approach it can’t quite articulate is, in fact, the old approach,” Mr. Lewis wrote. “Previous administrations even used the same words, calling North Korea’s actions ‘unacceptable’ and pointing to a different ‘path.’”
“有人忘了告诉他，一个新政府语焉不详承诺的新做法，实际上都是旧做法。”刘易斯写道。“以前的政府甚至使用了同样的措辞，称朝鲜的行动是‘不可接受的’，朝向了不同的‘道路’”。
At the heart of the talks on Thursday and Friday at Mar-a-Lago will be an effort to get the Chinese to step up their pressure. It will not be the first time: At various points, the Chinese have signed on to United Nations Security Council resolutions imposing sanctions, and the State Department — under Mr. Tillerson’s predecessors — has said the North would be more isolated than ever. As Robert S. Litwak, the director of international security studies at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said recently, “The conundrum is that North Korea never acts except under pressure, but pressure never works.”
周四和周五在马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)的会晤，重点将是促使中国人增加对朝鲜的压力。这也不是第一次了：中国人以前也多次签署了执行联合国安理会制裁的决议，而且前几任国务卿在任期间，国务院也总是说，朝鲜比以往任何时候都更加孤立。正如伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者研究中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)的国际安全研究主任罗伯特·利特瓦克(Robert S. Litwak)最近说的那样：“难题在于，如果没有压力，朝鲜从来不会有任何行动，但是压力也从未奏效过。”
The subtext of Mr. Tillerson’s comment that “the United States has spoken enough about North Korea” is that action will speak louder than words.
蒂勒森的说法“美国在朝鲜问题上已经说得够多了”有一句潜台词：行动比言语更响亮。