ST. PETERSBURG, Russia — President Obama and his advisers view the coming decision on military action against Syria as a potential turning point that could effectively define his foreign policy for his final three years in office.
俄罗斯圣彼得堡——奥巴马总统和他的顾问们把即将到来的对叙军事行动决定视为一个潜在的转折点，这个转折点可能会有效地界定他最后三年任期的外交政策。
As he lobbied world leaders at a summit meeting here in person and members of Congress back in Washington by telephone on Thursday, Mr. Obama argued that a failure to act would be an abdication of the so-called indispensable role played by the United States since the end of the cold war, leaving no one to step in when international bodies fail to.
周四，奥巴马在圣彼得堡的峰会上面对面地游说各国领导人，并致电游说华盛顿的国会议员。他辩称，袖手旁观等于推掉了美国自冷战结束以来一直在扮演的所谓不可或缺的角色，其结果是一旦国际机构介入失败，叙利亚局势就会进入无人干预的状态。
In private, Mr. Obama and his team see the votes as a guidepost for the rest of his presidency well beyond the immediate question of launching missiles at Syrian military targets. If Congress does not support a relatively modest action in response to a chemical attack that killed more than 1,400 people in Syria, Obama advisers said, the president will not be able to count on support for virtually any use of force.
私下里，奥巴马和他的团队把国会的投票视作一块指示牌，它的意义远不止是就发射导弹攻击叙利亚军事目标的迫切问题提供参考,还将指引总统在剩余任期里的工作。奥巴马的顾问说，如果国会(Congress)不支持以相对温和的方案来应对造成逾1400人丧生的叙利亚化学攻击，总统将来就不能指望国会对任何使用武力的举措表示支持。
Although Mr. Obama has asserted that he has the authority to order the strike on Syria even if Congress says no, White House aides consider that almost unthinkable. As a practical matter, it would leave him more isolated than ever and seemingly in defiance of the public’s will at home. As a political matter, it would almost surely set off an effort in the House to impeach him, which even if it went nowhere could be distracting and draining.
奥巴马已经坚称，即使国会说不，他依然有权下令攻击叙利亚。尽管如此，白宫助理们认为，这种情形几乎不可想象。从实际层面来说，这么做将让奥巴马比以往任何时候都更加孤立，而且似乎是在挑战国内民众的意愿。从政治层面来说，这么做几乎肯定会在众议院(House)引发弹劾行动，即使弹劾不起作用，它依然会牵扯和消耗奥巴马的精力。
As a result, Mr. Obama would be even more reluctant to order action in the one case that has most preoccupied military planners: the development of a nuclear bomb by Iran. Any operation to take out Iranian nuclear facilities would require a far more extensive commitment of military force than the missile strike envisioned against Syria. 
结果就是，奥巴马将更不会愿意下令就伊朗研制核弹一事采取行动，尽管伊朗的核弹计划让军事规划者们最为担忧。摧毁伊朗核设施的任何行动，都需要比预想中的对叙导弹攻击大得多的军力投入。
Already a sometimes-reluctant warrior, Mr. Obama pulled out all American troops from Iraq, ordered a withdrawal from Afghanistan and lately has talked about scaling back his aggressive use of drones in Pakistan and eventually ending the war against terrorism. Some critics have argued that in subcontracting the Syria decision to Congress, Mr. Obama was looking for an excuse not to act and someone else to blame.
奥巴马本来就是个时或显得不情不愿的战士，不光从伊拉克撤出了所有美军，而且下令从阿富汗撤军，最近还谈到要逐步缩减无人机在巴基斯坦的频繁出动，最终为反恐战争画上句话。一些批评者提出，奥巴马把对叙利亚的决定权转交国会，是为了给不采取行动找借口，为了找人替自己受过。
White House officials deny that, saying what the president really wants is a united front. But to opponents of a Syria strike, a retreat from further use of force in the wake of a Congressional rejection would finally reverse what they see as excessive militarism since Sept. 11, 2001. The restraint on future military flexibility that the White House professes to fear, in this view, would be something to celebrate.
白宫官员批驳了这种看法，说总统真正想要的是统一战线。但是，如果政府在国会否决之后放弃进一步动用武力，那些反对打击叙利亚的人就会最终扭转他们一直以来的看法，也就是说，自2011年9月11日以来，政府过分使用武力。从这个角度看，未来军事灵活性所受的限制倒是一件幸事，尽管白宫公开承认害怕这种前景。
It may be that the dire talk from the White House reflects a strategy to muscle Congress into line: Vote against this, the message being, and you vote against protecting Israel from Iran. And it may be that even if White House officials believe it today, Mr. Obama would still act to stop developments in the Iranian nuclear program or to address some other threatening circumstance if the moment ever arrived.
也许，来自白宫的耸人论调反映了白宫力图驯服国会的战略：其中的信息就是，如果投票反对这次行动，你就是在投票反对美国保护以色列不受伊朗的威胁。也许，即使白宫官员今日相信这种前景，等到危机真正来临的时候，奥巴马依然会采取行动来制止伊朗推进其核计划，或者采取行动应对其他的一些威胁情况。
“Obviously defeat would be a blow to presidential leadership but I think not fatal to a decision to attack Iran because the stakes are different,” said Gary Samore, a former national security aide to Mr. Obama. “The danger is that Iran might misread Congressional opposition to a Syria attack as a green light to move toward building nukes, which would force Obama’s hand.”
“很明显，如果国会不支持该计划，总统的威信会受到打击，但我认为，这不会对攻击伊朗的决定产生致命性的影响，因为赌注不同，”奥巴马的前国家安全助理加里·萨莫雷(Gary Samore)说。“危险在于，伊朗可能将国会反对攻击叙利亚的态度误解为美国同意伊朗发展核武器，而这将会迫使奥巴马采取行动。
Mr. Obama presented his case to leaders gathered here from the Group of 20 nations, but found as much wariness as he has in Congress. While France, Turkey and Saudi Arabia support such a strike, most of the others were more cautious, and the meeting’s host, President Vladimir V. Putin, was openly hostile.
奥巴马向聚集在圣彼得堡的二十国集团领导人阐述了自己的理由，但却发现这些领导人跟国会一样谨慎。虽然法国、土耳其及沙特阿拉伯支持打击计划，但大多数国家都比较小心谨慎，峰会东道主弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)更是公开反对这一计划。
Chinese officials warned that a strike would raise oil prices and upset the global economy, while Italy’s prime minister said he worried that it widen the conflict. From the Vatican, Pope Francis wrote a letter urging the leaders “to lay aside the futile pursuit of a military solution.”
中国官员警告，打击叙利亚会抬高油价，扰乱全球经济，意大利总理则表示，他担心打击行动会导致冲突扩大化。教皇方济各(Pope Francis)从梵蒂冈写来了一封信，敦促各位领导人“放弃军事手段这种徒劳的尝试。”
Mr. Obama, who met separately with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, was hoping mainly to win support for the idea of holding Syria responsible even if not for his method.
奥巴马分别与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)、巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)举行了会晤。奥巴马的主要意图是争取各国支持应该让叙利亚负责这一观点，即便他们不支持他的举措。
The Group of 20 meeting put on full display the increasingly awkward and tense relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin. To protest Russia’s decision to grant temporary asylum to Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who disclosed secret programs, Mr. Obama last month canceled a separate one-on-one meeting in Moscow and declined even a private session here in St. Petersburg.
二十国集团峰会充分展示了奥巴马与普京之间日益尴尬及紧张的关系。为了抗议俄罗斯为泄露机密项目的前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)提供临时避难的决定，奥巴马于上月取消了在莫斯科与普京进行一对一单独会晤的计划，并拒绝在圣彼得堡与普京举行私下会晤。
As he arrived at Constantine Palace, Mr. Obama was greeted by Mr. Putin, and the two shook hands and smiled in a businesslike if not warm encounter lasting about 15 seconds. They did not pat backs or grab elbows as leaders often do, and at the opening session they sat separated by the leaders of Australia and Indonesia, with nothing to say to each other as long as the cameras were on.
奥巴马到达康斯坦丁宫(Constantine Palace)时受到了普京的欢迎，两人握手、微笑，这次缺乏热情的过场式会面持续了15秒。他们没有像领导人经常做的那样，互拍背部或扶住肘部。此外，在开幕式上，两人中间坐着澳大利亚和印度尼西亚的领导人，摄像机没有捕捉到两人说话的镜头。
Diving into the meetings, Mr. Obama tried to manage dual audiences, the one in front of him representing the world’s greatest powers and the one back home that holds the fate of his foreign policy in its hands.
奥巴马投身于各式各样的会议之中，力图应对两部分观众，一部分是代表世界强国的现场观众，一部分是掌控奥巴马外交政策命运的国内观众。
“One thing for Congress to consider,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, his deputy national security adviser, “is the message that this debate sends about U.S. leadership around the world — that the U.S. for decades has played the role of undergirding the global security architecture and enforcing international norms. And we do not want to send a message that the United States is getting out of that business in any way.”
“国会需要考虑的一件事情是，”奥巴马的副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说，“此次辩论向全世界传达的有关美国领导力的讯息——数十年来，美国一直发挥着加强全球安全架构及执行国际准则的作用。我们不希望传达这样的讯息，即美国正以某种方式退出这项事业。”