The hedge fund titan Steven A. Cohen sat at the center of his vast trading floor on Monday, buying and selling stocks. In a sign of his enduring influence on Wall Street, Mr. Cohen did business with major banks like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase.
周一，对冲基金巨头史蒂文·A·科恩(Steven A. Cohen)坐在他那个巨大交易大厅的中心，买卖股票。科恩与高盛(Goldman Sachs)及摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)等大银行有交易，显示了他在华尔街的持久影响力。
Just last week, Mr. Cohen, 57, appeared relaxed courtside at Madison Square Garden while watching the New York Knicks defeat the Milwaukee Bucks in their season opener. And he will soon be closely monitoring the auctions at Sotheby’s and Christie’s, which are selling about $80 million worth of art from his vaunted collection, including two Warhol paintings and a Cy Twombly sculpture.
上周，57岁的科恩在麦迪逊广场花园(Madison Square Garden)球场边观看了纽约尼克斯队(New York Knicks)击败密尔沃基雄鹿队(Milwaukee Bucks)的赛季揭幕战，此时他都还是一副放松的姿态。不久之后，他就会参加苏富比(Sotheby's)和佳士得(Christie's)的拍卖会，密切关注拍卖活动，拍品中包括他收藏的价值约8000万美元（约合4.88亿元人民币）的艺术品，其中有两幅沃霍尔(Warhol)的作品，以及赛·通布利(Cy Twombly)的一尊雕塑。
For the investor, it is business as usual.
对于这名投资人来说，一切如常。
But on Monday, federal prosecutors announced that Mr. Cohen’s firm, SAC Capital Advisors, had agreed to plead guilty to insider trading violations and pay a record $1.2 billion penalty, becoming the first large Wall Street firm in a generation to confess to criminal conduct. The government has also forced SAC to terminate its business of managing money for outside investors.
然而，联邦检察官周一宣布，科恩的SAC资本顾问公司(SAC Capital Advisors)已经服罪，承认曾从事内幕交易违法活动，并同意支付创纪录的12亿美元罚款，由此成为了一个世代以来第一个承认从事犯罪活动的华尔街大型公司。政府还迫使SAC终止针对外部投资者的理财业务。
Insider trading at SAC was “substantial, pervasive and on a scale without precedent in the history of hedge funds,” said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan. His office has criminally charged eight former SAC employees; six have pleaded guilty.
驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)表示，SAC的内幕交易“数额巨大，普遍存在，规模在对冲基金的历史中没有先例”。巴拉拉的办公室已经对八名前SAC员工提起刑事指控，其中六人已经服罪。
Mr. Cohen’s apparent nonchalance — even as the firm bearing his initials admitted it was a criminal organization — reflects what is missing from the plea deal. After more than a decade of poring over trading records, interviewing informants and issuing grand jury subpoenas, federal authorities have not been able to build a case against SAC’s billionaire owner.
科恩表面上的平静——即便以其名字首字母命名的公司已经承认自身是犯罪组织——反映了认罪协议当中缺失的东西。十多年来，联邦机构一直在细读交易记录，与消息人士交谈，发布大陪审团传票，即便如此，他们还是没能拿到证据来指控SAC身家亿万的老板。
Without such a case, Mr. Cohen could still be a force on Wall Street, which has long, deep relationships with SAC. With its rapid-fire trading style, the hedge fund has been a top stock-trading client of the major banks, paying them billions of dollars in commissions. The banks have also made big profits extending loans to the fund. On Monday, they all continued to trade with SAC.
如果没有这个案件，科恩可能仍会是华尔街的一股力量，华尔街与SAC有着长久深厚的关系。凭借快速的交易风格，该对冲基金一直是各大银行的首要股票交易客户，向这些银行支付了数十亿美元的佣金。这些银行还通过延长该对冲基金的贷款期限而赚取了巨大利润。周一，它们都在继续与SAC进行交易。
According to his friends on Wall Street, Mr. Cohen says that he has done nothing wrong and thinks the government is bent on destroying him and his firm. Mr. Cohen, who owns 100 percent of SAC, has also privately complained that he has to pay more than $1 billion out of his own pocket for the crimes of rogue employees.
据科恩在华尔街的朋友透露，科恩表示他没有做错，认为政府蓄意摧毁他和他的公司。拥有SAC100%股份的科恩还曾私下抱怨，他不得不自掏腰包为流氓员工的犯罪行为支付10多亿美元。
A statement issued by SAC’s senior management on Monday appeared to underscore Mr. Cohen’s frustrations, minimizing the extent of the wrongdoing and distancing Mr. Cohen from the misconduct.
SAC高级管理团队周一发布的声明似乎突显了科恩的不满情绪，该声明将犯罪行为说得轻描淡写，并称科恩与不当行为无关。
“We take responsibility for the handful of men who pleaded guilty and whose conduct gave rise to SAC’s liability,” the firm said. “The tiny fraction of wrongdoers does not represent the 3,000 honest men and women who have worked at the firm during the past 21 years. SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading.”
“我们会为那几个服罪的人负责，SAC需要为他们的行为负责，”该公司表示。“极少数不法分子，并不能代表过去21年里在公司工作的3000名诚实男女。SAC从未鼓励、助长或容忍内幕交易。”
The statement, especially the last sentence, angered government officials because it contradicted SAC’s admission that it committed insider trading crimes. After prosecutors made their displeasure known to SAC, the firm issued a new statement that swapped out the last sentence and replaced it with, “Even one person crossing the line into illegal behavior is too many and we greatly regret this conduct occurred.”
上述声明，特别是最后一句，激怒了政府官员，因为它与SAC承认自己从事内幕交易犯罪的说法相矛盾。在检察官向SAC表达不满之后，该公司发表了新的声明，将最后一句替换为，“即便只有一人越界违法也是非常过分的事情，我们对这种行为感到非常抱歉。”
The son of a retail-clothing executive and a piano teacher, Mr. Cohen grew up in Great Neck, N.Y. Today, he lives across Long Island Sound in Greenwich, Conn., in a 36,000-square-foot home with an indoor pool and a two-hole golf course.
科恩成长于纽约大颈，双亲分别是服装零售公司管理人员和钢琴教师。如今，他住的是康涅狄格州格林尼治长岛海湾一套面积3.6万平方英尺（约合3345平方米）的房子，房子带有室内游泳池和一个双洞高尔夫球场。
Mr. Cohen started SAC in 1992 managing just $25 million. As the hedge fund grew, Mr. Cohen created an unorthodox structure. He sits atop a decentralized firm in which about 140 small teams each have control over hundreds of millions of dollars. The teams are all required to share their best investment ideas with Mr. Cohen, who historically has managed the largest account, worth several billion dollars.
1992年，科恩创办了SAC，当时掌握的资金仅有2500万美元。随着该对冲基金规模增加，科恩创造了一个非正统的体系。他位于一个分散式管理的公司顶层，这个公司包括大约140个小团队，每个团队控制着数亿美元。这些团队都需要向科恩汇报他们最好的投资想法。科恩一直管理着最大的账户，其价值高达数十亿。
SAC attracted ambitious, talented traders and promised them outsize pay as long as they performed. In good times, the fund’s top talent earned as much as $100 million annually. As for Mr. Cohen, he reportedly earned about $900 million a year in 2006 and 2007.
SAC吸引了一些有雄心有才能的交易员，并向这些人承诺，只要他们表现好，就能拿到超额报酬。在生意好的时候，表现最好的员工一年能挣到多达1亿美元。至于科恩自己，据称他在2006年和2007年每年都挣了9亿美元左右。
Mr. Cohen was able to pay such mammoth compensation because he charged among the highest annual fees in the hedge fund industry — 3 percent of assets and as much as 50 percent of profits. It commanded those fees after posting some of the best returns in the business — an average of 30 percent annually.
科恩之所以有能力支付如此巨额的报酬，是因为他所收取的年费是对冲基金行业里最高的——资产的3%及利润的50%。它收取这么高的费用，是因为它曾发布行业内最好的收益率——年均30%。
Though it branched into other strategies, SAC typically traded in stocks around market-moving events like earnings and big mergers. His traders became known for aggressively pumping sources for insights, and rumors persisted that the fund routinely crossed the line into trading on confidential corporate information.
虽然SAC也会采取其他策略，但它一般都会围绕与收益报告和大型合并等改变市场的事件有关的股票进行交易。众所周知，他的交易员总是竭力榨取内部情报，流言萦绕不去，称SAC经常逾越界限，利用机密的企业信息进行交易。
Since early 2011, the government secured a series of guilty pleas by former SAC traders that gave legitimacy to those rumors and ultimately underpinned the indictment of the hedge fund. Prosecutors have said that one of those traders, Mathew Martoma, spoke with Mr. Cohen about his questionable trades, but he has not cooperated and awaits trial.
自2011年年初以来，政府获取了一些前SAC交易员的一系列认罪答辩，不但坐实了这些流言，最终也为控告SAC奠定了基础。检察官表示，这些交易员中的一人马修·马托马(Mathew Martoma)曾与科恩谈论自己的不当交易，但是他并不配合，并决定等待审判。
The authorities continue to view Mr. Cohen and other SAC employees as targets.
官方仍然在对科恩及其他SAC员工进行调查。
The investigation has exacted a significant toll on SAC. Nearly all the fund’s investors have pulled their money. But SAC was always more insulated than other hedge funds from the damaging effects of withdrawals because of the $15 billion it managed at its peak, only $6 billion was from outside investors. The balance belongs largely to Mr. Cohen.
此次调查对SAC造成了极大的损失。该基金几乎所有的投资者都收回了资金。但是，与其他对冲基金相比，SAC总是更能承受投资者撤回资金造成的损害。这是因为，在SAC高峰时期掌控的150亿美元中，只有60亿来自外部投资者，其余资金基本为科恩所有。
There was speculation that an indictment of SAC might cause the fund to collapse. But the government tried to limit the potential for collateral damage on the fund’s investors and trading partners. Prosecutors did not freeze SAC’s assets and encouraged brokerage firms to continue to do business with the fund.
有人曾经推测，对SAC的控告可能会导致该基金倒闭。但是，政府试图减少基金投资者和交易伙伴所受的连带损害。检察官并没有冻结SAC的资产，并鼓励经纪公司继续与SAC进行交易。
SAC will now most likely morph into a so-called family office, with Mr. Cohen and a staff of hundreds investing his personal wealth. With billions at his disposal, Mr. Cohen is likely to remain a presence in the stock market.
现在，SAC极有可能变成一个所谓的家族公司，科恩和数百名员工都得用他的个人财富进行投资。鉴于手头还有数十亿可以支配的资金，科恩很可能会继续留在股市。
His business associates are optimistic that he will remain a powerful force on Wall Street.
他的商业伙伴也相信，他仍将是华尔街的一股强大力量。
“His attitude is great and he is trying to put this behind him,” said a senior brokerage firm executive who trades with Mr. Cohen. “His personal money — 9 billionish — will be plenty big.”
“他的态度非常好，正在尝试摆脱这件事的影响，”与科恩有交易的一名经纪公司高管说，“他的个人资金——90亿美元——足够充裕。”