If you’re an average American and are confused and worried about us getting embroiled in a no-win Syrian civil war, you’re right to be concerned. It means you’re paying attention. But if you’re a member of Congress or a senator who’s still wondering whether to grant President Obama the authority to use force to deter Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from again murdering hundreds of his people with poison gas, it now makes sense to take a timeout. That also means you’re paying attention.
如果你是个普通美国人，对于我们卷入没有赢家的叙利亚内战感到困惑和担心的话，你的忧虑是正确的。这证明你在关注时局。如果你是一名众议员或参议员，仍然在考虑，是否应授权奥巴马总统及美国当局动用武力威慑叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)，让他不敢再次利用毒气屠杀几百号本国民众，那暂时搁置讨论也是合理的。这也证明你在关注时局。
A new situation has been created in the last two days by the Russian offer — embraced by Obama, all of our major allies and China, but still only vaguely accepted by Syria — for Syria to turn over its stockpiles of poison gas to international control. Let’s have no illusion. There’s still a real possibility that the Russians and Syrians are just stalling and will fudge in the end, and even if one or both are serious, there are formidable logistical and political obstacles to securing Syria’s chemical weapons swiftly and completely. Part of me wonders: Has anyone really thought all this through?
过去两天，俄罗斯提议，叙利亚将储备的毒气武器交由国际管控，从而打开了新局面。对于该提议，奥巴马、美国的各大盟国及中国均欣然接受，但叙利亚的态度仍显暧昧。我们不要存有幻想。俄罗斯和叙利亚很有可能只是在拖延时间，最后不予兑现。而且，就算一方甚至双方真心实意，要想彻底而快速地保证叙利亚化学武器的安全，仍会在政治和操作层面遇到巨大障碍。一方面，我很好奇：有人彻底想清楚这个提议了吗？
But part of me also has to acknowledge that if such a Syrian surrender of poison gas were implemented — still a big if — it would be a decent end to this near-term crisis. The global taboo on poison gas would be upheld, and America would not have to get embroiled in a shooting war in Syria.
但另一方面，我也必须承认，如果能够让叙利亚缴出毒气，将会给眼下的危机带来一个比较体面的结局，尽管这种可能性要打个大大的问号。对毒气的国际禁忌将得以维护，美国也无需卷入叙利亚的流血冲突。
In that context, I think it is worth Obama and Congress threatening to schedule a vote to endorse Obama’s threat of force — if the Syrians and Russians don’t act in good faith — but not schedule a vote right now. Don’t worry, I know how absurd that sounds — but by “threatening to threaten,” Obama would retain leverage to keep the Syrians and Russians focused on implementing any agreement — but without having to test Congress’s real willingness to let him fulfill that threat. Because, if it failed to pass, the Russians and Syrians would have no incentive to move.
在这种情况下，我认为奥巴马和国会不妨威胁将安排投票，以支持奥巴马发出的使用武力的威胁——如果叙利亚和俄罗斯并非真心实意的话——但不要马上进行安排。别担心，我知道这听上去有多荒唐。不过，通过“威胁即将进行威胁”，奥巴马能保有让叙利亚和俄罗斯尽心执行协议的威慑力，同时又无需试探国会对于兑现威胁的真实意愿。背后的道理是，一旦奥巴马的提议被否，俄罗斯和叙利亚就没有任何动力去采取行动了。
If all of this sounds incredibly messy and confusing, it is. And while Obama and his team have contributed to this mess by way too much loose talk, in fairness, there is also a deep structural reason for it. Obama is dealing with an Arab world that no modern president has had to confront. Until 2010, the Arab Middle East had been relatively stable for 35 years. The combination of the cold war, the rise of oil-funded dictators who built strong security states and the peace between Egypt and Israel imposed order.
如果说，这些听起来极为混乱且令人困惑的话，也的确如此。虽然奥巴马及其团队过多未经深思熟虑的言论助长了这种混乱，但公平地讲，这里也寻在深层次的结构问题。近代没有任何其他美国总统遭遇过奥巴马打交道的阿拉伯世界。2010年之前，中东地区的阿拉伯国家维持了35年的相对稳定。冷战、靠石油发家的独裁者打造的强权警察国家，加上埃及与以色列之间维持的和平关系，这些元素相结合，硬是确保了秩序。
But the convergence in the 2010s of Arab population explosions, joblessness, environmental degradation, water scarcity, falling oil revenues and the information revolution blew apart regimes that once seemed solid — Syria, Egypt, Tunisia, Iraq, Libya and Yemen — forcing us now to confront some new and very uncomfortable questions, not just the use of force.
但在2010年以后，阿拉伯人口爆炸、失业率升高、环境恶化、水资源匮乏、石油相关收入减少，以及信息革命让曾似固若金汤的政权分崩离析，叙利亚、埃及、突尼斯、伊拉克、利比亚和也门接连动荡。这迫使我们今天要面对一些非常棘手的新问题，是否动用武力仅为其中之一。
One is this: Are some things true even if George W. Bush believed them? No one, hawk or dove, wants to see American boots on the ground in Syria, under any conditions. Count me among them. The only problem is that it is impossible to imagine a solution to the conflict in Syria without some outside force putting boots on the ground. When you get the degree of state and social breakdown that you have in such a multitribal and multisectarian society as Syria, there is no trust with which to govern and rotate power. Therefore, you need either a midwife or a Mandela or a trusted military (à la Egypt) to referee the transition to a new order. And since Syria has no Mandela and no trusted military, it is going to need an external midwife. I understand why there are no volunteers, but the United Nations Security Council will eventually have to address this reality, otherwise Syria will become Afghanistan on the Mediterranean.
一个问题就是：乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)坚信的一些事清，难道就没有可取之处吗？没有人，无论是鹰派还是鸽派，希望看到美国在任何情况下向叙利亚派出地面部队。我也算其中的一份子。唯一的问题是，如果没有外力在地面部署军事力量，不能想象叙利亚冲突能得到解决。在叙利亚这样一个多部族、多派别的社会，国家和社会分化到如此地步，没有可以赖以治国及进行权力轮换的东西。所以，为了监督向新秩序的过渡，要么有助力，要么有曼德拉(Mandela)式的人物，要么有受到信赖的军方（类似埃及军方）。而叙利亚既无曼德拉也无可靠的军方，所以需要外部的助力。我理解为何无人请缨，但联合国安理会最终必须面对现实，否则叙利亚会成为地中海地区的阿富汗。
There are also some uncomfortable questions we need to pose to our Arab allies. During the cold war, our fear of communism and dependence on oil made us ready to align with anyone who was with us against the Soviets. We never questioned our Arab allies about what values they were promoting at home?
我们同样也有些棘手问题要问问那些阿拉伯盟国。冷战期间，对共产主义的恐惧加上对石油的依赖，让我们乐于与任何反对苏联的力量结盟。我们从未追问过，那些阿拉伯盟国在本土推行什么样的价值观呢？
Well, here is a question we need to start posing: There are reportedly thousands of Arab and Muslim youths who have come from as far away as Australia to join the jihadist militias in Syria fighting to create a Sunni Islamist state there. But how many Arab and Muslim youth have flocked to Syria to fight with the decent elements of the Free Syrian Army for a multisectarian, pluralistic, democratic Syria — that is, the kind of Syria we hope for and envisage? I have not read of any. Arms purveyors, yes, but not people putting their own lives on the line.
好，我们现在必须开始提问：据报道，有几千名阿拉伯和穆斯林青年从澳大利亚等地远道而来，加入叙利亚的圣战民兵组织，希望通过战斗建立一个逊尼派(Sunni)伊斯兰主义国家。但又有多少阿拉伯和穆斯林青年纷纷去与叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)中没问题的部队并肩作战，以建立一个多派别、多元化的民主叙利亚，也就是我们希望看到的理想中的叙利亚？我没有见到任何相关报道。为此提供武器的人，的确有，但愿意以命相助的人，没有。
I am glad that Arab Gulf leaders are supporting us publicly — most of them are moderates in the Middle East context — but everyone knows that mosques and charities in those same countries are financing the jihadists. Attention: With the Soviets and the oil lines gone, Americans today are not going to expend blood and treasure to defend people and places in the Arab world that don’t share our values and are also not ready to sacrifice for them. We can’t afford it anymore, and we don’t need to.
我很高兴看到，阿拉伯海湾国家领导人公开支持我们。以中东的标准来看，他们大多是温和派。但所有人都知道，正是这些国家的清真寺和慈善组织在为圣战者提供资金支持。注意：随着苏联解体和石油管线的消失，对于一个不认同我们的价值观、也不愿为此做出牺牲的阿拉伯世界，美国人如今不会为捍卫它的民众和土地而撒热血、花大钱了。我们负担不起，也没有必要这么做。
So give Obama credit for standing up for an important principle in a chaotic region. But also give the American people some credit. They’re telling our leaders something important: It’s hard to keep facing down Middle East Hitlers when there are no Churchills on the other side.
那么，让我们认可奥巴马在一个混乱地区坚持重要原则的努力，但也请向美国民众致敬。是他们，让我们的领导人明白了很重要的一点：如果没有丘吉尔(Churchill)相助，很难对付得了中东的希特勒(Hitler)。