Emine Ziyatdinova’s recent photographs from Crimea sketch the pain that is not far from the tenuous peace. There are images of Russian soldiers and pro-Ukrainian protesters. And just last Sunday, in her family’s home, she photographed her mother crying as she stashed some documents into a bag.
伊明·伊泽诺娃(Emine Ziyatdinova)最近拍摄的克里米亚照片，展现了跟脆弱和平相隔不远的痛苦。照片中有俄罗斯士兵和亲乌克兰的抗议者。就在上周日，她在自己家里拍摄了母亲哭着把文件装进一个袋子的照片。
“She is getting ready to leave if they have to,” Ms. Ziyatdinova said. “My mom is really panicked and upset. She cries every day, and she thinks we are going to be deported.”
“她正在做离开的准备，如果不得不离开的话，”伊泽诺娃说。“我妈妈真的是惊慌失措，心烦意乱。她每天都在哭，觉得我们会被驱逐出境。”
This is not paranoia, but fear rooted in memory. In the 1940s, her grandparents — Crimean Tatars — were forcibly removed and sent to Uzbekistan, where Ms. Ziyatdinova, her brother and their parents were born. The family returned to Ukraine after the fall of the Soviet Union, rebuilding bit by bit in Serebryanka, a village in northern Crimea. But the upheaval in Ukraine, Russian intervention in Crimea and a coming referendum on whether the region can secede and join Russia have made her and many others nervous. Most recently, Crimea’s regional Parliament passed a resolution in support of independence should the majority of voters approve. The pro-Russian sentiment she has witnessed in recent weeks while working for Danish television is far from what she encountered last summer, when she visited the area shortly after returning to Ukraine from the United States, where she had been studying and working as a freelancer.
这不是杞人忧天，而是根植于记忆的恐惧。20世纪40年代，她的祖父母——克里米亚鞑靼人——被强行驱逐到乌兹别克斯坦；伊泽诺娃和哥哥，以及他们的父母都是在那里出生的。苏联解体后，一家人回到乌克兰，在克里米亚北部的村庄谢列布良，他们一砖一瓦地重建起家园。但是，乌克兰现在的动荡局势，俄罗斯对克里米亚危机的干预，以及该地区是否会“脱乌入俄”的公投，已经让她和很多人感到紧张。根据克​​里米亚地区议会最近通过的一项决议，如果多数选民赞成，该地区就会独立。最近几周，她在这里为丹麦电视台做项目，这期间她看到的亲俄情绪，跟她去年夏天从美国返回乌克兰后不久在这里的所见所闻大不相同；之前她在美国一边学习一边做自由摄影师。
“Last summer it was not a question like anyone wanted to go back to Russia,” Ms. Ziyatdinova, 26, said in a Skype interview Tuesday from Simferopol, the Crimean capital. “Now I come back and there is mass psychosis among the population and they want to join Russia.”She has been especially alarmed by the sentiment against people from western Ukraine, who are being portrayed as extremists and fascists, she said. Her passport makes clear that she is from western Ukraine.
“去年夏天，有没有人想回归俄罗斯不称其为一个问题，”本周二，26岁的伊泽诺娃在克里米亚首府辛菲罗波尔通过Skype接受采访时说。“现在我回到这里，很多人都疯狂地想要加入俄罗斯。”尤其让她感到不安的，是这里对乌克兰西部人的敌对情绪，她说，西部人被描绘成极端分子和法西斯分子。而她的护照清楚地显示，她来自乌克兰西部。
“Am I going to be banned from here?” she said. “Will I not be able to see my parents or relatives?”
“我会被从这里赶出去吗？”她说。“我再也见不到父母和亲戚了吗？”
She has been photographing her family and community in Serebryanka — about 70 miles north of the Crimean capital — since late in the last decade, taking pictures at family gatherings and scenes of local life. One series features Tatar artists, while another set of images chronicles her brother, Aziz, building a bigger house and he and his wife, Aliye, starting a family.The scenes she captured helped her reconnect to a place she had left behind, a place she had yearned for while living in Brooklyn and photographing Brighton Beach’s Russian community a few years ago.
自2010年之前，她就开始拍摄自己的家人和位于克里米亚首府以北70英里处的谢列布良社区，拍摄家庭聚会和当地日常生活的场景。她拍摄过一个鞑靼族艺术家系列，还用一组图像记录了哥哥阿齐兹(Aziz)修建一所更大的房子，跟嫂子阿丽亚(Aliye)成立家庭的过程。她捕捉的这些场景，帮她重新连接到她离开了的一个地方；几年前她住在布鲁克林并且拍摄布莱顿海滩的俄罗斯社区时，曾对这个地方充满思念。