The hedge fund firm of billionaire Paul E. Singer has about 300 employees, yet it has managed to force Argentina, a nation of 41 million people, into a position where it now has to contemplate a humbling surrender.
亿万富翁保罗·E·辛格(Paul E. Singer)的对冲基金公司大概拥有300名员工，不过它却成功地迫使拥有4100万人口的阿根廷陷入不得不考虑屈膝投降的境地。
Argentina on Wednesday failed to make scheduled payments on its government bonds. The country has the money to pay the bonds. But a federal court in Manhattan has ruled that unless Argentina settles its debt dispute with Mr. Singer’s firm, Elliott Management, it is barred from paying its main bondholders.
周三，阿根廷未能如期偿还其主权债务。阿根廷其实有钱还债。但是，驻曼哈顿的一家联邦法院的判决认为，除非阿根廷能与辛格的埃利奥特资本管理公司(Elliott Management)就债务纠纷达成和解，否则它将无权付钱给其主要债权人。
After more than five hours of meetings on Wednesday, the sides failed to reach an agreement and the court-appointed mediator said that Argentina would “imminently be in default.” Because a $539 million interest payment was not made, the ratings agency Standard & Poor’s said that Argentina was in default on those bonds.
周三，在经过五个多小时的磋商之后，双方未能达成协议。于是，法院任命的调停人称，阿根廷“即将违约”。因为阿根廷未能成功支付5.39亿美元（约合33亿元人民币）的利息，所以评级机构标准普尔(Standard & Poor's)表示，阿根廷债务违约。
The government of Argentina now faces a stark choice: Try to restart negotiations with investors it has repeatedly called “vultures,” who have for years refused to accept anything other than full repayment. Or it can remain ensnared in a default that could weigh on the country’s fragile economy and unsettle global markets.
如今，阿根廷政府面临着一个艰难的选择：要么尝试与多次被它称作“秃鹫”的投资者重新展开协商——多年来，这些投资者一直表示，除了全额还款，一概不予接受；要么它也可以陷在违约状态里，但是这有可能会对该国脆弱的经济造成影响，并使国际市场发生动荡。
After the talks collapsed, the economy minister of Argentina, Axel Kicillof, characterized the negotiations as extortion.
谈崩以后，阿根廷经济部长阿克塞尔·基奇洛夫(Axel Kicillof)表示，这些谈判等同于敲诈。
“We’re not going to sign any deal which compromises the future of Argentines,” he said at a news conference in Manhattan.
他在曼哈顿的新闻发布会上说，“我们绝不会签订任何有损阿根廷人未来的协议。”
This campaign shows how driven and deep-pocketed hedge funds can sometimes wield influence outside the markets they bet in. George Soros’s successful wager against the pound in 1992 affected Britain’s relationship with Europe for years.
这件事表明，动力十足而资本雄厚的对冲基金如何能在其下注的市场之外不时发挥影响力。1992年，乔治·索罗斯(George Soros)成功狙击英镑，使英国与欧洲的关系受到多年影响。
While Mr. Singer’s firm has yet to collect any money from Argentina, some debt market experts say that the battle may already have shifted the balance of power toward creditors in the enormous debt markets that countries regularly tap to fund their deficits. Countries in crisis may now find it harder to gain relief from creditors after defaulting on their debt, they assert.
虽然辛格还没有从阿根廷手中拿到钱，但有债券市场专家称，这场战争已经使规模巨大的债务市场的控制权倾向了债权人。各国经常会向债务市场寻求帮助，为其赤字提供资金。专家称，陷入危机的国家如今可能会发现，债务违约之后，更难要求债权人放宽条件。
“We’ve had a lot of bombs being thrown around the world, and this is America throwing a bomb into the global economic system,” said Joseph E. Stiglitz, the economist and professor at Columbia University. “We don’t know how big the explosion will be — and it’s not just about Argentina.”
“世界上到处都被扔了炸弹，这次是美国把炸弹投进了全球经济体系中，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的经济学教授约瑟夫·E·斯蒂格利茨(Joseph E. Stiglitz)说。“我们不知道爆炸的威力会有多大——而且受影响的不只是阿根廷。”
As a hedge fund, Elliott’s pursuit of Argentina is motivated by a desire to make money. Having bought its Argentine bonds for well below their original value, the firm stands to make a killing if Argentina pays the bonds in full. Legal filings indicate that the face value of its Argentine government bonds was around $170 million, but the firm most likely acquired many of them for much less than that. Elliott and other investors are now seeking more than $1.5 billion, which includes years of unpaid interest.
作为对冲基金，埃利奥特对阿根廷的咄咄相逼出于盈利欲望。公司以远低于原始价值的价格买进阿根廷债券，如果阿根廷支付全款，公司就能大赚一笔。法律文件显示，埃利奥特所持有的阿根廷主权债务的面值在1.7亿美元左右，但是公司很可能以远低于这个水平的价格买进了其中大部分债券。埃利奥特等投资者现在要求阿根廷支付逾15亿美元，其中包括多年的未付利息。
Still, there is also something of a crusade about the battle that reveals the worldview of Mr. Singer, 69. A Republican donor with libertarian leanings, he has spoken out when he thinks that governments and companies have damaged the rights of creditors.
然而，这场不依不饶的战争多少体现了69岁的辛格的世界观。作为一名带有自由意志主义倾向的共和党捐款人，当他认为政府和企业侵犯了债权人的权益时，他就会站出来。
“He doesn’t get into fights for the sake of fighting. He believes deeply in the rule of law and that free markets and free societies depend on enforcing it,” said a fellow hedge fund manager, Daniel S. Loeb.
“他不会为了斗争而斗争。他深信法治，深信自由市场和自由社会有赖于实行法治，”同为对冲基金经理的丹尼尔·S·洛布(Daniel S. Loeb)说。
That conviction has helped drive the creative legal assaults that have scored big financial gains for Elliott, which has nearly $25 billion of assets under management. Since the firm’s founding in 1977, it has on average posted a return of almost 14 percent a year. At one point in the Argentina dispute, Elliott persuaded a court in Ghana to seize an Argentine naval vessel that was docking in the country. The boat was later released.
这种信念帮助推动了一些颇有创意的法律诉讼，为埃利奥特带来了巨额财务收益。该公司管理着价值近250亿美元的资产。自1977年成立以来，埃利奥特通报的年均回报率几近14%。在与阿根廷的这起争端中，埃利奥特曾一度说服加纳一家法院查封了停靠在该国的一艘阿根廷海军舰艇。后来，那艘船被放行。
The origins of the Argentine dispute trace back to 2001, when Argentina, overwhelmed by its sovereign debt load, decided to default on its obligations. The country later offered to exchange their defaulted securities for new “exchange bonds,” that were worth much less the original bonds. Most investors participated in these swaps, but some decided instead to fight the government for full repayment. These so-called holdouts included many individual investors as well as a unit of Elliott called NML Capital and other hedge funds including Aurelius Capital Management.
与阿根廷的这起争端的根源要追溯到2001年。当时，深陷主权债务负担的阿根廷决定违约。后来，阿根廷提出用违约的债券换取价值远低于原始债券的新“重组债券”。大部分投资者参与了这种交换，但有些债权人决定和阿根廷政府抗争，让其全额还款。这些所谓的“坚守派”(holdouts)包括许多个人投资者，以及埃利奥特旗下名为NML资本(NML Capital)的部门和Aurelius资本管理公司(Aurelius Capital Management)等其他对冲基金。
It is legally challenging for American investors to sue foreign governments in United States courts. But in 2012, Elliott achieved a stunning breakthrough in the Federal District Court in Manhattan. Judge Thomas P. Griesa ruled that whenever Argentina paid the exchange bonds, it also had to pay the holdouts. Argentina could not ignore the ruling and pay the exchange bondholders because Judge Griesa also ruled that any financial firm that distributed payments to the bondholders would be in contempt. Argentina placed $539 million with the Bank of New York Mellon in June to pay its bondholders, but the bank did not transfer it.
对美国投资者而言，在美国的法院起诉外国政府在法律上颇具挑战。但2012年，埃利奥特在驻曼哈顿的联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)取得了惊人的突破。法官托马斯·P·格里萨(Thomas P. Griesa)裁定，无论何时，阿根廷只要偿付重组债券持有人，都必须同时偿付坚守派。阿根廷无法忽略该判决，只赔付重组债券持有人，因为格里萨法官同时裁定，任何经手向重组债券持有人转账业务的金融公司都将被视作藐视法庭。今年6月，为了向债券持有人偿还款项，阿根廷将5.39亿美元存到了纽约梅隆银行(Bank of New York Mellon)，但该行并未对其进行转账。
Last month, the United States Supreme Court rejected Argentina’s appeal, setting the stage for Wednesday’s default.
上月，美国最高法院驳回了阿根廷的上诉，为周三的违约埋下了伏笔。