MEDFORD, Mass. — THE use of nerve gas in Syria is abhorrent, and those within the Syrian military command who ordered it are war criminals. But it is folly to think that airstrikes can be limited: they are ill-conceived as punishment, fail to protect civilians and, most important, hinder peacemaking.
马萨诸塞州梅德福——叙利亚使用神经毒气一事骇人听闻，叙利亚政府军指挥层中下达这一指令的那些人是战争犯。不过，要是以为，作为回应的空袭能够在有限范围内进行的话，那就太愚蠢了：作为惩罚，它考虑不周、不能保护平民，而且最为重要的是，它会阻碍和平进程。
The use of chemical weapons should be punished. No country should remain neutral when human beings are gassed. This is one thing on which the United States, Russia and Iran can agree. But the most convincing punishment would come through an international war crimes tribunal outside Syria.
使用化学武器应当受到惩罚。当人类被毒气攻击的时候，任何国家都不应袖手旁观。这一点，美国、俄罗斯和伊朗都会一致同意。但是，最令人信服的惩罚应当来自叙利亚以外的国际战争罪法庭。
Syrian civilians deserve protection from murder, but bombing won’t deliver it. Efforts to protect civilians through military action have a checkered history that reveals a fundamental truth: their success depends on whether they reinforce a political plan. From the creation of safe havens for Kurds in northern Iraq in 1991 to the campaign that ousted Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya in 2011, effective interventions support diplomacy; they don’t replace it.
叙利亚平民理应得到免遭谋害的庇护，但轰炸并不能做到这一点。历史上，通过军事行动保护平民的尝试效果不一，它们揭示出一个基本事实：行动成功与否取决于它是否能支持政治解决方案。无论是1991年为伊拉克北部的库尔德人创建避难所，还是2011年用军事攻势推翻利比亚的穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)，有效的干预行动都是对外交活动的支持，而非替代。
The United States government dispatched nearly 30,000 troops to Somalia in 1992 and 1993 for humanitarian purposes, but the operation came to grief when the Americans stumbled into a partisan conflict, caused the deaths of hundreds of Somalis and lost 42 service members, including 18 killed in one culminating battle. The NATO bombing of Belgrade in 1999 forced the Serbs to withdraw from Kosovo, but only after the campaign was expanded and the United Nations took responsibility for administering the area. In Afghanistan and Iraq, the United States and its allies got dragged into long and difficult wars. The consequences of NATO action in Libya are still uncertain.
1992年到1993年间，出于人道考虑，美国政府向索马里派出了近3万人的部队。但美国人当时陷入了派系冲突的泥潭，导致数百名索马里人死亡，42名美军士兵丧生，其中18人死于最后一场战斗中，行动演化成了一场悲剧。1999年，北约对贝尔格莱德的轰炸迫使塞族人撤出了科索沃，但在此之前，军事行动已然扩大化，而且联合国接管了科索沃的管辖权。在阿富汗和伊拉克，美国及其盟国被拖入了艰巨的长期战争之中。而北约在利比亚的行动成效还有待观察。
The basic issue is efficacy, not legality. A century and a half ago, the British journalist, lawyer and parliamentarian Sir William Harcourt faced down a public clamor for Britain to intervene in the American Civil War. Writing under the pen name “Historicus” in The Times of London, Sir William argued that military intervention was like revolution: “a high and summary procedure which may sometimes snatch a remedy beyond the reach of law,” but “its essence is illegality and its justification is its success.”
这里的核心问题是有效性，而非合法性。150年前，英国记者、律师兼议员威廉·哈考特爵士(William Harcourt)压倒了英国民众要求干预美国南北战争的呼声。他在《泰晤士报》(The Times)上以“历史君”(Historicus)为笔名发表文章称，军事干预类似于革命：“是一个简单粗暴的过程，或许偶尔会在法律的触角之外攫取成果”，但“其本质非法，且正当性由成功与否来决定”。
The proponents of airstrikes against Syria invoke NATO’s Operation Deliberate Force in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1995 to argue that a limited bombing campaign can end massacres and civil wars. But that isn’t the lesson. The NATO raids didn’t end the atrocities, most of which — with the important exception of Srebrenica — had been perpetrated several years earlier. The air attacks were carried out in the same month as a ground offensive by allied Bosnian and Croatian armies, and helped American diplomatic efforts achieve a peace agreement; it was the combination that proved effective.
赞成空袭叙利亚的人士援引了北约1995年在波黑的“慎重武力行动”(Operation Deliberate Force)为例，认为有限的轰炸能够终止内战中的屠杀行为。不过，历史的教训并非如此。彼时终止暴行的不是北约的轰炸，除了重要的斯雷布雷尼察事件之外，多数暴行是在数年前犯下的。就在空袭的同一个月，波斯尼亚和克罗地亚部队展开了联合地面攻势，空袭最终配合美国的外交行动达成了一项和平协议。事实证明，各方面相结合才能见效。
Syria is not Rwanda in 1994, abandoned by the world to week after week of systematic murder. The war is inflamed by multiple actors, with multiple agendas, backing up all sides. There is too much external intervention — not a void.
叙利亚不是1994年的卢旺达。当时，卢旺达被整个世界抛弃，陷入了一周又一周的有组织屠杀之中。叙利亚战争是由多方参与者发起的，受到多个议程的影响，并积聚了各方势力。这里有太多的外部干预，所以不存在真空地带 。
What’s missing is a political effort to seek peace. No talks are scheduled. The regional power brokers — Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, which support the rebels, and Iran, which backs Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad — are at odds. American military action without a peace process involving all actors would only intensify the two-year-old war.
现在缺乏的是寻求和平的政治努力。谈判尚未进入日程。参与其中的地区势力，也就是支持叙利亚反对派的卡塔尔、沙特阿拉伯和土耳其，与支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的伊朗意见相左。如果缺乏容纳各方的和平进程，美国军事行动只会加剧长达两年的叙利亚战争。
Sir William advised that the only aim of intervention should be peace, and that “to interpose without the means or the intention to carry into effect a permanent pacification is not to intervene, but to intermeddle.” Without credible peace negotiations, firing cruise missiles at Syria would be to intermeddle.
威廉爵士认为，干预的唯一目的应该是和平，“倘若干预不以实现永久安定为目的，或缺乏实现这一点的手段，那就不是干预，而是乱搞。”没有经过可行的和谈，就对叙利亚发射巡航导弹，就是乱搞。
Sir William also warned that “intervention never has been, never will be, never can be short, simple, or peaceable.”
威廉爵士还警告，“从来都没有短暂、简单或和平的干预，以后不会有，也不可能有 。”
“I do not say,” he added, “that England, Russia and France might not impose their will on the American belligerents; I do not argue the question whether it is right that they should do so. But this I venture to affirm, that they never will and never can accomplish it, except by recourse to arms; it may be by making war on the North; it may be by making war on the South, or, what is still more probable, it may be by making war upon both in turns.”
他还说，“我不是说，英国、俄罗斯和法国不能把自己的意愿强加给美国参战各方；我也不会辨析，他们这么做是对是错。不过，我斗胆断言，他们永远都不会，也不可能实现他们的目标，除非诉诸武力；其手段也许是对北方发动战争；也许对南方发动战争，或者，更有可能的是，对两方轮流发动战争。”
And so Sir William advised Britain to stay out of the American conflict.
所以，威廉爵士建议英国不要插手美国的冲突。
Punishment, protection and peace must be joined. None can be achieved in isolation. All require a strong international coalition. Syria needs a political process, and that demands that belligerents and all regional actors meet to set the terms of a solution. Force might still be required at that point, but it would at least serve a political process instead of standing in for it.
惩罚、保护与和平需要形成合力。在孤立状态下，上述目标一个也实现不了。所有这些都需要一个强大的国际联盟。叙利亚需要的是政治进程，而这需要参战各方和该地区的所有参与国通过面谈来设定解决方案的条款。到那时，可能依然需要武力的参与，不过，至少武力会为政治进程服务，而不是取代政治进程。
Chemical weapons shock the world’s conscience. Outrage will not dissipate, regardless of the slow pace of diplomacy. So far, international intervention has come in the form of arming all sides (and the rebels often seem as ready to turn their guns on one another as on the regime). The result is a conflict with a seemingly infinite capacity to metastasize.
化学武器让全世界的良心受到震动。怒火并不会平息，尽管外交推进的速度会相当缓慢。但迄今为止，国际干预的形式是武装叙利亚的各个派别（而反对派武装把枪口对准彼此的意愿，常常看起来与对付阿萨德政权的意愿一样强烈）。结果，这场冲突似乎具备没完没了地扩大化的可能性。
An American assault on Syria would be an act of desperation with incalculable consequences. To borrow once more from Sir William: “We are asked to go we know not whither, in order to do we know not what.”
美国对叙利亚发动攻势将是孤注一掷之举，后果无法预料。再次借用威廉爵士的文字：“我们被要求去一个我们不知道是哪里的地方，目的是去做一件不了解的事情。”