On July 23, Dr. Kent Brantly woke up with a fever. He immediately quarantined himself, and three days later a test confirmed his nightmare. He had the Ebola virus.
7月23日，肯特·布兰特利(Kent Brantly)医生醒来时发烧了。他立即将自己隔离了起来。三天后，化验证实了他噩梦般的猜测。他感染了埃博拉病毒。
Brantly, 33, emailed a friend and said that he was “terrified,” for he knew better than anyone the horror of the virus. He had been treating patients in West Africa with it for many weeks, watching as they vomited, hemorrhaged internally and sometimes bled from multiple orifices — then weakened and died.
33岁的布兰特利给一名友人发了封电子邮件，说自己“感到恐惧”，因为他比任何人都更了解这种病毒有多可怕。在之前的好几周时间里，他一直在西非救治感染了该病毒的患者，看着他们呕吐和内出血，有时还会内外出血，然后慢慢虚弱，走向死亡。
Some people have blamed Brantly and another American missionary infected, Nancy Writebol, for bringing the danger to themselves, even objecting to their return to Atlanta to be treated for the disease at Emory University Hospital. For example, Donald Trump argued that Brantly and Writebol should not be brought back to the United States because of the risks involved.
一些人怪罪布兰特利和另一名被感染的美国传教士南希·赖特博尔(Nancy Writebol)自作自受，甚至反对让他们回亚特兰大，在艾默里大学医院(Emory University Hospital)接受治疗。比如，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)称，不应将布兰特利和赖特博尔接回美国，因为这其中涉及多重风险。
“People that go to far away places to help out are great — but must suffer the consequences!” Trump said on Twitter.
“去远方伸出援手的人很伟大，但必须承担相应的后果！”特朗普在Twitter上说。
On the contrary, this Ebola outbreak underscores why we have not only a humanitarian interest in addressing global health, but also a national interest in doing so. Brantly and Writebol are moral leaders in this effort and underscore the practical imperative of tackling global contagions early on. They deserve our gratitude and admiration because in Liberia they were protecting us as well as Liberians.
但相反，这次的埃博拉病毒爆发突显出了我们应对全球卫生问题不仅符合人道主义利益，也符合国家利益。布兰特利和赖特博尔是这场行动中的道德领袖，彰显了尽早应对全球性传染病的实际必要性。他们值得我们感激和赞扬，因为在利比里亚，他们既在保护利比里亚人，也在保护我们。
The human mind is very sensitive to threats from the likes of Al Qaeda. We are less attuned to public health threats, even those that claim more lives: Some 15,000 people with AIDS still die in the United States every year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It’s better to address a contagious disease at its source rather than allow it to spread.
人类的思维对来自基地组织(Al Qaeda)的这类威胁非常敏感。但我们不太能意识到公共卫生威胁，哪怕那会夺走更多人的生命。比如，美国疾病预防与控制中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention， 简称CDC）的数据显示，美国每年仍有约1.5万艾滋病患者死亡。最好从源头应对传染病，而不是任其蔓延。
“If we don’t fight to contain it there, we’re going to fight to contain it somewhere else,” notes Ken Isaacs of Samaritan’s Purse, the Christian aid group for which Brantly works.
“如果不努力把它控制在那里，我们便会在其他某个地方与其斗争，”基督教救援团体撒玛利亚救援会(Samaritan’s Purse)的肯·伊萨克(Ken Isaacs)写道。布兰特利就是为该组织工作的。
The World Bank has pledged $200 million to try to control the Ebola outbreak, but a tiny fraction of that sum might have contained it early on.
世界银行(World Bank)已承诺提供2亿美元（约合13亿元人民币），以尝试控制此次埃博拉病毒爆发，但在早期，可能只需一小部分资金，就能控制住这次爆发了。
Dr. Thomas Frieden, the director of the C.D.C., cites an American-backed program in Uganda to train health workers to diagnose and contain Ebola. It worked. In 2011, a 12-year-old girl there caught the Ebola virus and died from it — but no one else was infected. It was an exceptionally rare Ebola episode that stopped after just a single case.
CDC主任托马斯·弗里登博士(Thomas Frieden)提到了美国在乌干达扶持的一个项目。该项目旨在培训卫生工作者诊断和控制埃博拉病毒，其效果显著。2011年，那里一名12岁的小姑娘因染上埃博拉病毒而去世，但没有其他人被感染。对埃博拉病毒而言，这种止步于一个病例的情况非常少见。
A similar program in West Africa might likewise have limited the human and financial cost of this outbreak, Frieden noted, adding: “An outbreak anywhere is a risk everywhere.”
弗里登指出，如果西非有类似的项目，或许也同样能减少这次爆发导致的人员伤亡和经济损失。他接着说：“不管在哪里爆发，所有地方都会面临危险。”
This isn’t true only of the Ebola virus. Frieden recalls caring in New York for a patient from India with extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis, a complex case that cost $100,000 to cure. Later, a program was set up in the patient’s native village that could have resolved the case early for $10.
不仅埃博拉病毒如此。弗里登回忆起曾在纽约照顾一名患有广泛耐药结核病的印度患者。当时，花了10万美元才将那个复杂的病例治愈。后来，在那名患者所在的村子里设立了一个项目，使得早期花10美元就能治愈这种病。
New York hospitals have been on alert for Ebola, but diagnosis and segregation are complicated. I know because I was once such a suspected case.
纽约的医院一直对埃博拉保持警惕，但诊断和隔离颇为复杂。我知道这一点，是因为我自己曾经便是这样一个疑似病例。
Years ago, when I lived in Japan, I returned to Tokyo from Congo at the time of an Ebola outbreak there. One night a week later, I came down with a high fever. It felt like malaria, so I made inquiries about what hospital in Tokyo could best treat malaria the next day.
多年前，我还生活在日本。一次我从刚果回东京时，刚果正好爆发了埃博拉病毒。一周后的一天夜里，我开始发高烧。感觉像是疟疾，于是第二天，我打听了东京哪家医院治疗疟疾效果最好。
The health authorities heard “Congo” and “fever” and sent an ambulance staffed with people in what looked like spacesuits to rush me to a hospital. My neighbors were taken aback by the scene.
卫生当局听到“刚果”和“发烧”后，派来了一辆救护车和随行人员，将我紧急送往医院。那些人穿的衣服看上去像太空服一样。我的邻居被当时的场面吓了一跳。
But, at the hospital, the emergency room night doctor knew nothing about tropical diseases. He poked me a bit, shrugged and told me to go home. (The next day, I confirmed that it was malaria.)
但在医院，急诊室的夜班医生对热带疾病一无所知。他检查了一下我的情况，耸耸肩，让我回家。（第二天，我证实了这的确是疟疾。）
So don’t see Brantly and Writebol as reckless curiosities who somehow brought Ebola upon themselves. See them as leaders on the front line of an effort to help and protect Americans and Africans alike. We sometimes forget that health workers can brave significant risks — of infection with H.I.V., with tuberculosis, or even with the Ebola virus. Indeed, the staff treating Brantly and Writebol in Atlanta volunteered for that duty, and some offered to cancel vacation plans to help.
因此，不要把布兰特利和赖特博尔当做鲁莽的怪人，不知怎么地就染上了埃博拉病毒。要把他们当做领袖，他们奔走在一场帮助和保护美国人与非洲人的行动的前线。我们有时忘记了，卫生工作人员会面临重大风险——感染HIV、患上结核病、乃至感染埃博拉病毒。实际上，亚特兰大治疗布兰特利和赖特博尔的工作人员，是自愿承担起那份工作的，一些人还提出取消休假计划，以提供帮助。