Did the United States have to drop the bomb?
美国非得使用原子弹不可吗？
Seventy years after the United States launched the atomic age with attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, hastening the end of the war in the Pacific, The New York Times asked readers how they viewed the decision by President Harry S. Truman.
70年前，美国在广岛和长崎投下原子弹，加速了太平洋地区战争的结束，也推出了核武器时代。70年后，《纽约时报》询问读者，他们如何看待哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)总统的决定。
At the time, Truman defended his decision to drop the bombs as the only way to avoid a full-scale invasion of Japan. That, arguably, would have cost more lives, American and Japanese, than the approximately 200,000 who died in the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
当年，杜鲁门对投放原子弹决定的辩白是，那是避免对日本本土发动全面进攻的唯一途径。可以说，发动全面进攻将会给美国和日本带来更多生命损失，比在广岛和长崎的原子弹爆炸中死亡的约20万人还要多。
The anniversary of the Nagasaki attack will be commemorated at the city’s Peace Park on Sunday with a ceremony that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will attend.
长崎原子弹爆炸的周年纪念将于周日在该市的和平公园举行，安倍晋三首相将出席纪念仪式。
Critics have contended that the Japanese were sending signals that they were prepared to surrender, but that these were either missed or ignored, and that the United States wanted to demonstrate to the world — particularly the Soviet Union — the awesome power it had at its disposal.
批评使用原子弹的人争辩说，日本已在向外界发出他们准备投降的信号，但这些信号不是被错过、就是被忽略了，因为美国想向全世界、尤其是苏联展示其掌握的惊人武器。
We received thousands of responses, including justifications, condemnations, indictments and explanations. And though the 70 years since the bombings have helped provide perspective — and more historical knowledge about what was happening at that time in the war — they have not yielded much consensus.
编辑部收到了几千封读者回答这个问题的来信，有的提供理由，有的给予谴责、控告，也有的做出解释。虽然自投放原子弹以来已过去了70年，为考虑这个问题提供了时间的视角，对有关战争的那个阶段发生了什么也有了更多的历史知识，但这些都没能让人们对这个问题达成更多的共识。
Here are excerpts from selected responses, lightly edited for clarity.
下面是读者来信的摘登，为表达清晰稍作编辑。
Judging Truman's Legacy
评判杜鲁门的历史功过
This was an act of terrorism against the civilian population to achieve a political objective, a quintessential war crime. Harry Truman was a war criminal.
那是为了达到一种政治目的，对平民百姓进行的恐怖袭击，是典型的战争罪。哈里·杜鲁门是一个战争罪犯。
— LAWRENCE MOSS; N.Y., N.Y.
——纽约州纽约市居民劳伦斯·毛斯(LAWRENCE MOSS)
Truman did the right thing. Whether it saved Japanese lives is immaterial, it was politically correct and saved American lives and ended the war.
杜鲁门做了正确的选择。那样做是否救了日本人的命无关紧要，他的做法在政治上是正确的，减少了美国人的死亡，结束了战争。
— FRANK DOOLITTLE; Paradise Valley, Ariz.
——亚利桑那州天堂谷居民弗兰克·杜利特尔(FRANK DOOLITTLE)
Dropping the bombs was a 1945 decision not a 2015 one. To Truman, 200,000 Japanese lives lost was better than 400,000 killed and wounded American lives. To add to that were the billions of dollars spent on developing the bomb and the means to deliver it, the B-29. If the bomb were not dropped and lives were lost, why was the bomb even developed?
投放原子弹是1945年的决定，不是2015年的决定。在杜鲁门看来，20万日本人的死亡，比起40万美国人的伤亡来说，是一个更好的选择。除了这个考虑，还有开发核武器及其投放所需要的B-29型轰炸机的高达数十亿美元的费用。如果不投放原子弹，而且有更多的生命损失，当初干吗要开发原子弹呢？
— EDWARD WYSOCKI; Bowie, Md.
——马里兰州鲍伊市居民爱德华·威索基(EDWARD WYSOCKI)
Putting myself back in August 1945, the Axis powers had no hesitation in bombing, torturing and murdering anyone associated with the Allied cause. If I was in the Enola Gay on that morning, I believe I would have looked at it as just a real big bomb that might put a quick end to the war. Given the means to do it, I believe I would have dropped a bomb every day until the emperor himself said, “Please, no more.” Good for President Truman: He did what was necessary to stomp out evil.
把我自己置身于1945年8月。那时，法西斯轴心国毫不犹豫地轰炸、折磨和屠杀任何与同盟国事业有关的人。如果那天早上，我在艾诺拉·盖号轰炸机上（Enola Gay是向长岛投放原子弹的飞机的名字，译注），我觉得我会这样看，那只不过是一颗可能迅速结束战争的大炸弹。假如我有办法的话，我觉得我会每天投一颗原子弹，直到天皇本人说“求求你，别再投了”的那一天。杜鲁门总统做的对：他做了铲除邪恶所必须做的事情。
— GEORGE HERRINGTON; Carmel, Ind.
——印第安纳州卡梅尔市居民乔治·赫林顿(GEORGE HERRINGTON)
The display of power was necessary to ensure the security of Europe and Asia from the threat of a Soviet-instigated war in the aftermath of World War II. Further, the American electorate had a desire for revenge and so it was politically advantageous to drop the bomb. Finally, to imply that moral and rational behavior are the same in war as in peace is a gross simplification of events past.
面对二战之后苏联策划战争的威胁，为确保欧洲和亚洲的安全，有展示武力的必要。此外，美国选民有复仇的欲望，所以投放原子弹在政治上是有利的。最后，暗示战争时期的道德和理性行为与和平时期的一样，是对历史事件的一种严重的过度简化。
— JORDAN HALL; Kent, England
——英国肯特郡居民乔丹·霍尔(JORDAN HALL)
Alternatives to the Atomic Bomb
不使用原子弹的其他选择
One need only look at the casualty estimates of the planned invasion of Japan to see how horrific the alternative might have been. The decision to drop the bomb by the United States is tragic, and American officials should always mourn with the people of Japan. Without the unfortunate decision to drop the bomb, the war would have dragged on and the losses for both sides would have been catastrophic.
只要看看对日本发起全面进攻计划对人员伤亡的估计，就知道不使用原子弹可能会有多么可怕的后果。美国投原子弹的决定是悲剧性的，美国官员应该永远与日本人民一起哀悼死者。但是，如果没有投放原子弹的不幸决定，战争会拖延下去，双方的损失都将会是灾难性的。
— ZACHARY HOFFMAN; Columbus, Ohio
——俄亥俄州哥伦布市居民扎卡里·霍夫曼(ZACHARY HOFFMAN)
I do not argue against dropping an atomic bomb to hasten the end of a terrible war, but I disagree with targeting Hiroshima, Nagasaki or any other urban area. Instead, the United States should have selected a remote location. This would have demonstrated the imposing power of the atomic bomb and the uselessness of the Japanese government continuing the war, while saving the lives of tens of thousands of civilians, many of whom suffered incredibly gruesome injuries.
对为了加快一场可怕战争的结束而投下原子弹，我没有反对意见，但我对选择广岛、长崎或任何其他人口集中地区作为靶子持反对意见。与选择把原子弹投在城市相反，美国本该选择一个遥远的地方。那本来也可以展示原子弹的巨大威力，让日本政府知道其继续战争的徒劳，同时也能挽救十多万平民的性命，他们中的许多人遭受了难以置信的可怕创伤。
— JOHN VANKAT; Flagstaff, Ariz.
——亚利桑那州弗拉格斯塔夫市居民约翰·凡卡特(JOHN VANKAT)
Even if we accept that dropping the bomb was necessary to force Japan to surrender unconditionally, no one has ever adequately explained why we couldn’t have had the same effect by dropping the first bomb on an uninhabited part of Japan. Even if Japan refused to surrender after the first bomb and we had had to drop the second, as happened in 1945, still only half as many people would have been killed. Did no one think of this at the time?
即使我们接受投原子弹对迫使日本无条件投降的必要性，但从来没有人能充分解释，为什么我们不能用把第一颗原子弹投在日本的一个无人居住的地方，来达到相同的效果。即使日本在投放了第一颗原子弹后仍拒绝投降，迫使我们不得不投放第二颗，正如在1945年发生的那样，但这会导致死亡人数减少一半。难道那时没有人想到这一点吗？
— ELIZABETH MICHOUD; Stow, Mass.
——马萨诸塞州斯多镇居民伊丽莎白·米晁德(ELIZABETH MICHOUD)