SAN SALVADOR — When in human history has an epidemic become so alarming that a nation feels compelled to urge its people not to have children for two years?
圣萨尔瓦多——人类历史上，何时有一种传染病令人惊慌到使一个国家觉得必须呼吁国民两年不生孩子？
Grappling with a mosquito-borne virus linked to brain damage in infants, El Salvador is doing just that, advising all women in the country not to get pregnant until 2018 — the equivalent of a Hail Mary pass that, to many here, only illustrates their government’s desperation.
萨尔瓦多就正在这么做。该国正在努力应对蚊子携带的一种病毒，而这种病毒和婴幼儿的脑损伤有关。萨尔瓦多建议，全国女性不要在2018年之前怀孕。对这里的很多人来说，这相当于最后一搏，不过是表明了政府的绝望。
“It’s not up to the government; it’s up to God,” said Vanessa Iraheta, 30, who is seven months pregnant with her second child. “I don’t think the youth will stop having children.”
“这事不是政府说了算，是上天说了算，”30岁的瓦妮莎·伊拉赫塔(Vanessa Iraheta)说。“我觉得年轻人不会停止生孩子。”她已有七个月的身孕，是第二胎。
The virus, known as Zika, has rattled Latin America and the Caribbean, particularly Brazil, where more than a million people have been infected and nearly 4,000 children have been born with microcephaly, a rare condition in which babies have unusually small heads.
这种病毒名为“兹卡”(Zika)，让拉丁美洲和加勒比地区陷入了恐慌，特别是巴西。在巴西，超过100万人感染，近4000个孩子出生时患有小头症。小头症颇为罕见，患此症的婴儿头部特别小。
Other nations around the region have issued warnings similar to El Salvador’s, with officials in Colombia and Ecuador urging women to put off becoming pregnant for months, or until the dangers of the virus are better understood.
该地区的其他国家也发布了和萨尔瓦多类似的警告，其中哥伦比亚和厄瓜多尔的官员力劝女性推迟怀孕，先观察数月，或是等到对该病毒的危险有更好的了解之后。
But El Salvador’s advice to stop having children for two full years struck many experts as particularly sweeping, leaving them to wonder when else a nation has tried to halt its birthrate in the face of an epidemic.
但萨尔瓦多给出的整整两年不生孩子的建议让很多专家觉得特别笼统，使他们好奇还有哪个国家在面对传染病时曾试图阻止民众要孩子。
“I can tell you that I have never read, heard or encountered a public request like that,” said David Bloom, a professor of economics and demography at the Harvard School of Public Health.
“我可以告诉你，我本人从来没看到、听到或是遇到过这样的公开要求，”哈佛大学公共卫生学院(Harvard School of Public Health)的经济学与人口学教授戴维·布卢姆(David Bloom)说。
If El Salvador’s advice sounds like a cry for help, critics say, that’s because it is.
批评人士称，如果说萨尔瓦多的建议听着像是呼救，那是因为它本来就是。
“I mean, the futility of saying something like this,” said Dr. Ernesto Selva Sutter, a leading public health expert in El Salvador, shaking his head. “Are you going to stop having sex?”
“嗯，说这种话毫无意义，”萨尔瓦多国内著名的公共卫生专家埃内斯托·塞尔瓦·萨特(Ernesto Selva Sutter)摇着头说。“你会停止性生活吗？”
This small nation is already home to an epidemic of gang violence, pushing tens of thousands of its young people to flee north every year and stretching the government thin. By one estimate, El Salvador earned the unenviable title of being the Western Hemisphere’s most violent country.
这个小国目前已是帮派暴力泛滥成灾。这导致每年数万年轻人北逃，并让政府苦不堪言。根据一个估算的数字，萨尔瓦多落下了西半球暴力最严重的国家这个不值得羡慕的头衔。
Now the Zika virus is crashing through its doors. With at least 5,000 cases of Zika in a nation of six million, more than 1,500 in the last month alone, the government has been scrambling for solutions. It has dispatched teams of fumigators and treated water supplies to combat the Aedes mosquito, which also carries diseases like dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya.
如今，兹卡病毒正在这里肆虐。在这个人口600万的国家，至少出现了5000例兹卡病例，单是上月便有1500多例。政府在争分夺秒地寻找解决方案，已派出了消毒队伍，并对供水进行了处理，以对付伊蚊。这种蚊子还会传播登革热、黄热病和基孔肯雅热等疾病。
Standing water, which allows the insects to breed, is a fact of life here, as are the pools of trash cloaking many city streets in the dense neighborhoods that carve through the hillsides of the capital.
死水会滋生蚊虫，但在这里，死水无处不在，很多城市街道上覆盖着的那一堆堆垃圾也是。首都的山坡之间分布着人口密集的社区，其中有纵横交错的街道。
One community leader said that a government clinic in his neighborhood shut down three months ago after repeated threats from the gangs, the kind of conditions that experts say make it harder to treat and combat the virus.
一名社区领袖称，在受到犯罪团伙的多次威胁后，他所在社区的政府诊所在三个月前关门了。专家称，这种情况增加了治疗和抗击卡兹病毒的难度。
The country’s vice minister of health, Dr. Eduardo Espinoza, said the recommendation to stop having children was not the government’s principal approach to the epidemic, but rather a “secondary” strategy stemming from “the fact that these mosquitoes exist and transmit this disease.”
该国卫生部副部长爱德华多·埃斯皮诺萨(Eduardo Espinoza)表示，建议暂停生孩子并不是政府应对兹卡疫情的主要策略，而是“次要”策略，并称采取这一举措源于“一个事实，即这类蚊子是这种疾病的携带者和传播者”。
“We see ourselves obligated to make this recommendation to partners trying to get pregnant,” he said.
“我们认为自己有义务向想要怀孕的伴侣提出这个建议，”他说。
The World Health Organization said it would not recommend suspending pregnancies for two years.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)表示不会建议推迟两年怀孕。
“There are many questions that need to be answered before making that recommendation,” said Dr. Marcos Espinal, the director of communicable diseases for the Pan American Health Organization.
“在提出这一建议之前，有很多问题需要回答，”泛美卫生组织(Pan American Health Organization)传染性疾病事务负责人马科斯·埃斯皮纳尔(Marcos Espinal)说。
One of the most important, he said, is whether the country is at the peak of its epidemic. “You have to assess the risk in making such a recommendation of how it will impact the birthrate of a country,” he said.
他表示，一个极为重要的问题是，该国是否处于疫情的高峰期。“在给出这类建议时，必须要评估它将怎样影响一国出生率的风险，”他说。
Other experts said that Zika had brought nations like El Salvador into uncharted territory.
其他一些专家称，兹卡把萨尔瓦多这样的国家带进了未知领域。
“I have never seen or read of any instance of a government warning its citizens not to get pregnant,” said Dr. Howard Markel, who teaches the history of medicine at the University of Michigan.
“我从来没在现实生活或是书本里看到过政府告诫民众不要怀孕的情况，”在密歇根大学(University of Michigan)教医学史的霍华德·马克尔(Howard Markel)说。
Dr. Markel cited other medical warnings related to pregnancy: Pregnant women are cautioned by doctors to stay away from anyone with rubella, for instance, because it causes devastating birth defects, including microcephaly.
马克尔提到了其他一些和怀孕有关的医学警告：比如，医生会告诫孕妇远离风疹患者，因为风疹会导致严重的先天畸形，包括小头症。
Early in the AIDS epidemic, when there was no treatment and mothers frequently passed H.I.V. to their babies, he added, “there was some sotto voce debate about whether it was morally ethical for a doctor to advise a woman not to get pregnant because of the risk to her child.”
他接着说，艾滋病流行初期，患者得不到治疗，母亲经常会把艾滋病病毒传给孩子，当时“对于医生因孩子面临风险而劝女性不要怀孕是否符合伦理道德，有过一些低声争论”。
“But no one said, ‘It’s verboten; don’t do it.’ ”
“但没人说，‘这是禁止的，不要这么做。’”
“Even if the religious leaders can help us combat these mosquitoes, we still feel obliged to make this recommendation to the couples,” he said, referring to the advice to avoid getting pregnant.
“即便宗教领袖能帮助我们抗击这些蚊子，我们依然觉得有义务对夫妻双方提出这个建议，”他指的是避免怀孕的建议。
Like the government, the Roman Catholic Church in El Salvador seems unprepared for a confrontation. The archbishop has yet to weigh in. Over the weekend, when many expected him to discuss the issue, he was sick and unable to say Sunday Mass. The auxiliary bishop, Gregorio Rosa Chávez, indicated that there would be a meeting of bishops next week that might yield some answers.
和政府一样，萨尔瓦多的罗马天主教会似乎也未对一场对抗做好准备。大主教还未介入。周末，很多人以为他会谈论此事，但他却生病了，无法主持周日的弥撒。辅理主教格雷戈里奥·罗萨·查韦斯(Gregorio Rosa Chávez)表示，下周会召开主教会议，可能会得出一些答案。
“Certainly this is a new theme, and it has to be looked at calmly,” he said in an interview. “I think that the church is going to take this very seriously. I would just wait a little.”
“的确，这是一个新议题，必须平静对待，”他在接受采访时说。“我认为教会会严肃对待。我要等等看。”
Waiting does not appear to be a problem for some women. Unlike the birthrate in many developing nations, El Salvador’s is already low, and the fear of Zika infecting a child seemed to rank third or fourth on the list of reasons many women cited for not wanting to get pregnant.
对一些女性来说，等待似乎并不是问题。和很多发展中国家的出生率不同，萨尔瓦多当下的出生率已经相当低了。而且在很多不想怀孕的女性给出的原因中，担心孩子感染兹卡似乎只排在第三四位。
First, they say, is the violence. Gangs operate with impunity, and the war between them, as well as with the police, has produced homicide levels not seen since the country’s civil war that ended in 1992.
她们说，排在第一位的原因是暴力。犯罪团伙肆无忌惮，它们之间以及它们与警方的交战造成的杀人案件，达到了该国1992年内战结束以来从未有过的程度。
Women also mentioned economic fears, with severe underemployment and more than a third of the population living under the poverty line.
女性还提到了对经济的担忧。该国失业问题严重，且逾三分之一的人们生活在贫困线以下。