BEIJING — “Diagramming Allegory,” the Wang Luyan solo exhibition at the Beijing Parkview Green Exhibition Hall, occupies an enormous space divided into two long galleries. While one is configured to resemble a shooting range — with a giant brushed stainless steel handgun, far taller than any man, and an oversize target — the other resembles the nave of a cathedral, including a crucifix and a confessional.
北京——在北京芳草地举办的王鲁炎个展“图·寓言”(Diagramming Allegory)占据了一片巨大的空间，这片空间被划分成两座长长的展厅。其中一座被布置的类似一个射击场，内有一把巨大的拉丝不锈钢手枪，其高度远超人体身高，还有一个超大号的靶子。另一座展厅就像是教堂的中殿，内中包括了一座耶稣十字架受难像和一间忏悔室。
At first glance the two galleries, covering 43,000 square feet, or 4,000 square meters — and the art within — appear diametrically opposed. In addition to the handgun, the first holds works like “Symmetry of Violence” (2008), an acrylic painting of fighting men. The second includes Mr. Wang’s versions of iconic religious masterpieces like Michelangelo’s “Creation of Adam” and Leonardo’s “Madonna Litta,” displayed near a 20-foot high architectural painting of the interior of a church.
这两座展厅及厅内艺术品给人造成的第一印象，似乎是截然相反的，两座展厅的面积达到了4.3万平方英尺，即4000平方米。除了手枪，第一座展厅还纳入了王鲁炎2008年的丙烯画作品《对称的暴力》、它刻画了两名正在打斗的男子。第二座展厅里囊括了王鲁炎诠释的宗教类传世巨作，比如他模仿米开朗基罗的《创世纪》(Creation of Adam)和达芬奇的《哺乳圣母》(Madonna Litta)创作的作品。展廊还展出了近20英尺高的教堂内部建筑构图。
Closer inspection, however, reveals a common theme. The giant handgun, “W Fire at Both Ends Automatic Handgun,” is designed so that one pull of the trigger would shoot two bullets in opposite directions, killing the killer even as he kills. Likewise, the men in “Symmetry” are so intertwined that it is impossible to distinguish the perpetrator from the victim. In similar fashion, the figures in the European Renaissance works are painted as though constructed of flat, machine-like parts with jagged, saw-tooth edges, subverting the divine creation and maternal love of the originals into a cold and cruel postindustrial reality. Even the architecture of the painted church is saw-toothed, the tiled floors and vaulted ceiling as redolent of torture as succor.
然而，更近的体察揭示了一个普遍的主题。名为《W双向自动手枪》的巨型手枪被设计成了当某人扣动扳机时，能向正反方向发射两发子弹，杀人者在杀死对方的同时，也杀死自己。同样的，作品《对称的暴力》中的男子如此紧密地纠缠在一起，以至于几乎不可能辨别作恶者和受害者。按照类似的风格，欧洲文艺复兴时期的作品被绘制成了好似由平整的、带锯齿状边缘的机械部件构成的画作。它以冷酷的后工业时代现实，颠覆了原作里的创世圣迹和母爱。即使是画中教堂的建筑结构都是锯齿状的，其中的地砖和拱顶不仅让人联想到救赎，也有折磨。
“Wang works around paradox,” explained Wu Hung, the University of Chicago professor who curated the show, which was scheduled to close in June but has been extended indefinitely. “It can be very political and refer to war. It can be about religion, philosophy, or political commentary. He doesn’t belong to any trends — this kind of conceptualism is very special. His is an untold story in Chinese art.”
策划展览的芝加哥大学教授巫鸿说，“王鲁炎围绕着悖论进行创作。它可以非常政治化，可以指向战争。也可以涉及宗教、哲学或政治评论。他不属于任何流派，这种概念化的创作是非常特殊的。他是中国艺术界一个不为人知的故事。”此次展览计划于6月闭幕，不过已被无限期地延长了。
Meg Maggio, the director of the Pekin Fine Arts gallery in Beijing who recently presented Mr. Wang’s work at a Hong Kong exhibition titled “Double-Think,” echoed this view.
北京艺门画廊总监马芝安(Meg Maggio)呼应了巫鸿的观点，最近，她在香港举办的名为“双想”的展览中展出了王鲁炎的作品。
“He’s an unsung hero of Chinese contemporary art, a strong conceptual artist who hasn’t been pandering to the marketplace,” she said. “He’s been very true to himself and very committed to the process.”
她说，“他是中国当代艺术中被埋没的英雄，是一名非常棒的概念艺术家，他没迎合过市场。他一直非常忠于自己，对创作过程极为投入。”
Although Mr. Wang is less well known than other Chinese artists of his generation like Ai Weiwei, he has been involved in Chinese contemporary art since its inception. “He has a very long track record — one of the longest,” said Mr. Wu. “He started in the late 1970s, just after the Cultural Revolution.”
王鲁炎不像艾未未等和他同一时代的其他中国艺术家那样知名，不过，自中国当代艺术萌芽以来，他就一直投身其中。巫鸿说，“他投身艺术的历史极长，是最长的之一。他在上世纪70年代末开始艺术创作，那时文革刚刚结束。”
Indeed, Mr. Wang was a member of the groundbreaking “Stars Group,” an art collective that experimented with Western, avant-garde art styles and pushed for artistic freedom. Barred from China’s museums and galleries, which were then filled with socialist-realist art, the group staged a now legendary exhibition outside the gates of the National Art Museum of China (then called the China Arts Gallery) in 1979.
实际上，王鲁炎是“星星画会”的成员之一，这是一个开创性的艺术团体，它尝试了前卫的西方艺术风格，推动了艺术自由。那个年代，博物馆和画廊里全都是社会主义-现实主义的艺术作品。由于不能进入博物馆和美术馆，这个团体于1979年在中国国家美术馆（后被称为中国美术馆）的门外举办了一场后人口中的传奇展览。
Mr. Wang went on to become one of the three members of the “New Measurement” group (with Gu Dexin and Chen Shaoping), which was a major force in the avant-garde movement of the 1980s and 1990s, and part of the path-breaking “China Avant-Garde” exhibition at the National Art Museum in 1989. The show featured works by 300 artists and it was the first time avant-garde art had been permitted in a museum, but it was shut down near the end of the first day when two artists fired a gun at their own installation.
接着，王鲁炎成为了“新刻度”三人小组中的一员（其余两人是顾德新和陈少平），这个小组是上世纪80到90年代兴起的前卫艺术运动的主力，他们参加了1989年举办的“中国现代艺术展”。那次开创性的展览展出了300名艺术家的作品，是首次获得美术馆批准举办的前卫艺术展，不过，这个展览在首展日临近结束时就被关闭了，当时，有两名艺术家对着他们自己的装置作品开枪。
Many of the artists who participated in these seminal exhibitions went on to enroll in China’s renowned arts academies and became members of the artistic establishment, but Mr. Wang was not among them. “Back then, if you were someone who loved art but had no chance of testing into an arts academy, your only choice was to enter an ‘Amateur Arts Training Course,”’ he explained.
许多曾参加过这些开创性展览的艺术家继续进入知名的中国艺术院校深造，成为体制内的艺术从业者，可是王鲁炎不在其中。他解释说，“那个时候，如果你是一名热爱艺术的人，但是却没有机会通过考试进入艺术院校，你唯一的机会就是参加一个“业余艺术培训班”。
He thus enrolled in amateur drawing classes at the Workers’ Cultural Palace while holding down a day job, working first as a lathe operator at the Beijing Furnace Factory and then as mastheads editor for China Communications News. Eventually he stopped taking art classes because he came to believe they did more harm than good.
于是，他在继续工作的同时，报名参加了工人文化宫的业余绘画班，他的第一份工作是北京锅炉厂的车工，之后当上了《中国交通报》的报头编辑。他最终放弃了课程，因为他开始认识到这些课弊大于利。
“I realized that kind of art ‘training’ is actually a poison to artistic enlightenment,” he said. “In fact, the majority of people who go through it are harmed, and unlikely ever to become independent-thinking and creative artists.”
他说，“我意识到，这种艺术‘培训’对艺术的启迪其实是一副毒药。实际上，大多数接受培训的人都被毒害了，而且这些人绝不可能再成为具有独立思维和创造性的艺术家。”
Mr. Wang largely shunned the Chinese art world during what he calls the “post-colonial” commercial frenzy of the late 1990s and 2000s, when Western critics, curators, museums and collectors descended on Beijing and local artists lined up to meet them. While many artists got rich overnight — Mr. Wang recalls one acquaintance who arrived in Beijing in 2005 unable even to pay rent and several years later was a millionaire — he used the time to sketch, read, ponder and paint.
王鲁炎把1990年代末到2000年代初的中国艺术界称为“后殖民”商业化狂潮，他在很大程度上遁出了当时的艺术界，尽管那时西方的评论人、策展人、博物馆和收藏家蜂拥来到北京，而国内的艺术家排着队要和这些人见面。许多艺术家一夜暴富——据王鲁炎回忆，他的一个熟人在2005年到北京时连房租都交不起，几年之后就成了百万富翁——但他却把时间用在素描、阅读、思考和绘画上。
“I never considered being an artist from the perspective of choosing a career,” he explained. “Whether I was an artist or not, I was always going to paint.”
他解释说，“从选择职业的角度看，我从未想过要成为一名艺术家。不管是不是艺术家，我时时刻刻总想着画画。”
It was while working at the Beijing Furnace Factory, making metal parts according to design images, that Mr. Wang first became interested in the artistic possibilities of paradox.
在北京锅炉厂当工人那会，王鲁炎的工作是根据设计图样制造金属零件，他就是在那时对悖论的艺术可能性产生了兴趣。
“Industrialized production, and modern society, are full of rational rules,” he said. “If you don’t have rules in a factory, the products produced will be useless, and if you don’t have them in society, there will be chaos. But, as science and technology continue to progress and society to develop, there are ever more rules which increasingly conflict with human personality.”
“工业化生产和现代社会充满了理性规矩，”他说，“如果工厂没有规矩，生产出来的产品就是废品，如果社会没有规矩，就会一团糟。但是，随着科学和技术的继续进步和社会的继续发展，会有更多规矩，这些规矩会与人的个性越来越冲突。”
Mr. Wang began sketching his concept of this paradox, starting in 1990 with a simple drawing of a horizontal line wrapped by a red thread that is simultaneously pulling up and down. This concept — of one action resulting in two contradictory reactions — became the primary theory of his work.
1990年，王鲁炎开始用素描来表现自己对这种矛盾的理解。他画了一幅简单的画，是一条水平线，被一条同时在上下拉动的红线缠绕着。后来，一个行为会引发两种相互矛盾的反应这种观念成了他作品的主要理论。
“I value paradox because it is the basic mode of existence for human society,” he said.
“我重视矛盾，因为这是人类社会的基本生存模式，”他说。
For many years, Mr. Wang’s focus was on mechanical manifestations of paradox like guns, tanks, screws or bicycles whose intended purpose was subverted or negated. His wristwatches, branded W, are a series of bold, bright and provocative acrylic paintings. The “W Six Party Wrist Watch,” for example, has gears painted with the flags of the countries in the six-party talks on North Korea’s nuclear development; the movement of any of the interlocked gears will cause the others to turn, just as an action by any one of the nations would elicit a reaction from the others.
在很多年里，王鲁炎关注的是矛盾的机械表现形式，比如手枪、坦克、螺丝或自行车，这些器具原本的功能或被推翻，或被破坏。他的W手表系列作品就是一组大胆、色彩明亮、具有挑衅意味的丙烯画。比如，在《W六方腕表》这幅画上，腕表的齿轮是参与朝核问题六方会谈的国家的国旗；各齿轮交错相连，任何一齿轮运动，都会导致其他齿轮运动，就像六国中任何一个国家行动都会引发其他国家做出反应一样。
The “W Birdcage Switch” depicts a bald eagle, a symbol of freedom, in a cage with a complicated series of ropes and pulleys that, if used, would simultaneously open and close the door. (The ropes are red, evoking the red string that Mr. Wang drew around that single line back in 1990.) The artist’s more recent exploration of the contradictions inherent in religious faith is similarly grounded in his conviction that “disbelief is also a form of faith.”
在《W鸟笼开关器》这幅画上，一只象征着自由的秃鹰被关在了一个笼子里，笼子里有一组复杂的绳子和滑轮。滑轮和绳子发生作用时，既是在开笼门，也是在关笼门。（绳子是红色的，让人想起王鲁炎在1990年画的那根线。）同样地，王鲁炎最近探索宗教信仰的固有矛盾，也是因为他相信“不信也是一种信”。
Mr. Wang, who finally quit his day job in 2005, has had solo exhibitions each year since 2007 and his work, according to Ms. Maggio, is in increasingly high demand among collectors in China. But he continues to work at his own pace and to guard his hard-earned independence.
王鲁炎最终在2005年辞去了自己的正职工作。从2007年开始，他每年都会举办个人画展，而且据马芝安说，中国收藏人士对王鲁炎作品的需求越来越大。但他依然按照自己的节奏创作，保护着自己得来不易的独立。
“What’s important is to persist and carry on,” he said. “The more you do this, the deeper your explorations — and the greater the possibility for you to discover and create.”
“重要的是坚持和继续前行，”他说，“越是这么做，探索就越深入，发现和创造的可能性就越大。”