When Renee McAdams was attending Columbia Business School more than two decades ago, she swore she would never leave New York.
蕾妮·麦克亚当斯(Renee McAdams)二十多年前刚进入哥伦比亚商学院(Columbia Business School)读书的时候就曾发誓，再也不离开纽约了。
But leave she did, right after her 1992 graduation. At a wedding, she met a man who was established in Pittsburgh as a cardiologist. They married and had four children. Ms. McAdams started a company, Colonial Title.
但她却在1992年刚毕业的时候就离开了。在一场婚礼上她遇到一个男人，那人在匹兹堡是功成名就的心脏病专家。他们结了婚，然后养育了四名儿女。麦克亚当斯还开了一家名为Colonial Title的公司。
“Time has just moved on,” she said. The marriage ended. The children are now in high school and college.
“时光就这样渐渐流逝了，”她说。这场婚姻走到了尽头。孩子们现在有的上了高中，有的上了大学。
“I am looking at my nest emptying,” said Ms. McAdams, who is 50 and in the midst of a second divorce. “When you raise kids and they’re a priority, and then they grow up, it’s numbing, it’s heartbreaking.”
“我眼看着这个家正在变成空巢，”今年50岁的麦克亚当斯说，她还在办理第二次离婚的手续，“你抚养孩子们的那些年，他们是你的头等大事，然后他们都长大了，这种感觉开始是麻木，后来则是心碎。”
But along with the prospect of an empty nest came a new thought: “ ‘I am not anchored. I am going to do whatever I want to do.’ ”
于是，面对即将空巢的前景，有个新想法冒了出来：“‘我并没有沉寂下来。我要去做自己想做的事。’”
And that, to her, meant reconnecting with New York.
那件事对她而言，就是和纽约再次发生联系。
She decided to rent an apartment in the city for part of the week — a two-bedroom, to have space for the children — from which she could work online and enjoy the city. She would continue to spend part of every week in her three-bedroom townhouse in the Pittsburgh suburb of Sewickley, Pa., where her business is based.
她决定在市内租一套公寓，每周住上几天，让自己可以在那里上网工作，并享受纽约生活——最好是一套两居室的公寓，给孩子们也留个地方。她每周仍会有几天住在自己的三居室联排别墅里，那栋房屋坐落在匹兹堡郊区，宾夕法尼亚州塞威克利(Sewickley, Pa.)，也是她的公司所在地。
In the years since her graduation, Ms. McAdams had visited New York often, staying with a friend or, if some of the children were with her, in a hotel. A good friend lives at Liberty Luxe in Battery Park City, paying around $10,000 a month for a two-bedroom.
在她毕业后的这些年里，麦克亚当斯常常会去纽约，有时候在朋友家里留宿；若带着孩子，便住在一座酒店里。她的一位好友生活在炮台公园城(Battery Park City)的Liberty豪华公寓楼中，每月大约支付10000美元（约合人民币61200元），租住一套两居室的公寓。
Ms. McAdams considered that building, one of Battery Park City’s many high-rises. She liked a lot about Liberty Luxe, but not the “crazy rent.” In its part of town, “the prices are daunting,” she said.
麦克亚当斯也考虑过那栋楼，那是炮台公园城内许多摩天大厦中的一栋。她非常喜欢Liberty公寓，除了那里“疯狂的租金”之外。在闹市区的一些地方，“那些公寓的租金让人望而却步。”她说。
For the cost of the rent, “you could stay anywhere for two long weekends a month,” she said. But she preferred a home to a hotel, with no need to transport luggage. “Having a home base — that makes all the difference,” she said.
有这笔租金的钱，“你可以随便待在哪儿，每月过上两次长周末，”她说。但她却宁愿住在家里，而不是酒店，就可以不必把行李搬来搬去。“有个落脚的地方——那会让一切变得不一样。”她说。
In the summer, Ms. McAdams’s eldest son got an internship with Fresh Direct, the grocery delivery business, which is headquartered in Long Island City, Queens. She volunteered to find him a place to live nearby. It was an excuse to visit the city.
今年夏天，麦克亚当斯的大儿子在杂货店物流公司Fresh Direct得到了一个实习机会，该公司的总部位于皇后区的长岛市(Long Island City)。她于是主动要求给他找个附近的地方住。这是一个拜访纽约的借口。
“I had never been in Long Island City,” she said. “I am one of those people who doesn’t leave Manhattan. So I went there and was absolutely in shock.”
“我从未去过长岛（市），”她说，“我是那种不离开曼哈顿的人。所以到了那儿之后，我大吃一惊。”
She was unaware of the transformation, starting in the late 1990s, that has filled Long Island City with residential towers boasting postcard views of Manhattan.
她没想到，那场自20世纪90年代晚期就已开始的转变，已经在长岛市内随处可见，那里许多高层住宅楼，都以能看到曼哈顿风景如画的景观为荣。
Seeing the sign at the newest TF Cornerstone building on Center Boulevard, she stopped in to see the model apartments. “I thought, ‘Boy, I wonder what this costs,’ ” she said, expecting Battery Park City prices.
她看见中央大道(Center Boulevard)上一栋新落成的TF Cornerstone大楼外的标牌，于是停下了脚步，想进去看看那些样板公寓。“我心想，‘伙计，这样的公寓得花多少钱啊，’”她说，等着听到炮台公园城那样的价格。
But a two-bedroom two-bathroom there, of more than 1,100 square feet, was $5,550 a month. She loved the high ceilings, the dazzling sunlight and the iconic Pepsi-Cola sign right outside. She was tempted, but hesitated over being out of Manhattan.
然而在这里，一套面积超过1100平方英尺（约102平方米）的两卧两卫公寓，每月的租金是5550美元（约合人民币33677元）。她喜欢这个房间里高高的天花板、炫目的阳光，还有外面那块标志性的百事可乐广告牌。她受到了诱惑，但是对于住在曼哈顿以外的地方，仍抱有迟疑。
That night, at a crowded restaurant in the meatpacking district, she and some friends struck up a conversation with others nearby. One was Jeffrey Nesgi, a salesman at Caliber Associates. Ms. McAdams told him she was nervous about committing to Long Island City, so he suggested she check out comparable rentals in Manhattan.
那天晚上，在这个肉制品加工区一家人气很旺的餐厅里，她和几位朋友与旁边一些人攀谈了起来。有个人名叫杰弗里·奈斯基(Jeffrey Nesgi)，是Caliber Associates公司的一名销售员。麦克亚当斯告诉他，要下决心到长岛市来住，她还是感到有些紧张，于是他建议她去看看曼哈顿的同等租金的出租房源。
She told him she needed a place she would be happy working from — preferably in a new building, spacious and bright, with some kind of view — at a monthly rent of up to $6,000.
她告诉他，自己需要一个可以快乐工作的地方——最好在一栋新建的大楼里，宽敞明亮，有那么些景观——月租不超过6000美元（约合人民币36738元）。
Mr. Nesgi showed her Mercedes House on the Far West Side, built in 2009. Two-bedrooms started in the $4,000 to $5,000 range, but some were less than 800 square feet.
于是奈斯基指给她看曼哈顿远西区(Far West Side)2009年建的Mercedes House公寓楼。那里的两居室公寓，租金起价虽然在4000美元至5000美元（约合人民币24492元至30615元）的区间内，但有些公寓的面积还不到800平方英尺（约74平方米）。
At the Victory at 10th Avenue and 42nd Street, built in 2001, some two-bedrooms were priced in the low $5,000s. The high-rise building was perfectly fine but it was already 13 years old.
而在第十大道(10th Avenue)与42街(42nd Street)之间、建于2001年的那栋the Victory公寓楼中，有些两居室公寓的价格略高于5000美元。这栋摩天大楼各方面都不错，只是已经有13年的楼龄了。
“They were really nice places in her budget,” Mr. Nesgi said. “But in Long Island City, those buildings are brand-new.”
“虽然这些公寓都是在她预算内的好住处，”奈斯基说，“但在长岛市，那些大楼都是崭新的。”
Ms. McAdams asked herself: “ ‘Do I really think I want to be across the river?’ ” But, she concluded, “No matter where you are in Manhattan, you commute somewhere.” Getting to Midtown Manhattan from Long Island City is often easier than from Battery Park City, she said.
于是麦克亚当斯问自己：“我真的想去河对岸居住吗？”但她得出了结论，“不管住在曼哈顿的哪里，你总要通勤去个什么地方。”从长岛市去往曼哈顿的中城区，通常比从炮台公园城走要轻松一些，她说。
So Ms. McAdams signed on to the Cornerstone two-bedroom, furnishing it primarily from the Restoration Hardware outlet in Flushing, Queens. She bought a dining table and chairs, “thinking I would have dinner parties like I have in Sewickley,” she said. “But you realize people don’t do that. They go out.”
于是，麦克亚当斯签下了这套Cornerstone的两居室公寓，她从皇后区法拉盛的Restoration Hardware outlet商店采购了大部分家具，来布置房间。她购置了一张餐桌和几把椅子，“因为想到我可能会举办一些晚餐派对，就像我在塞威克利做的那样，”她说，“但你发现这里的人并不那样做。他们都出去吃晚餐。”
Her son stayed in the second bedroom for the summer. Ms. McAdams is usually in New York for half the week. At 5 a.m., she said, it takes less than 10 minutes by cab to reach La Guardia Airport.
她的儿子今年暑假住在这套公寓的次卧室里。通常，麦克亚当斯会在纽约住半个星期。她说，早上五点钟搭计程车，不到十分钟就到拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia Airport)了。