When she was 13, Susan Sontag “made a rule”: “No daydreaming.” The habit of idle reflection, to most writers part of the job, seemed to her not so much a waste of time as a threat to stability: “Being intelligent isn’t, for me, like doing something ‘better,’ ” she confided to her journal in 1973. “It’s the only way I exist. If I’m not [being] intelligent, I hover near being catatonic.”
13岁那年，苏珊·桑塔格(Susan Sontag)立下一条“规矩”：“不做白日梦。”对大多作家而言，悠闲的沉思都属于工作的一部分，但在桑塔格看来，无异于浪费时间，会对她的情绪稳定产生威胁。“做一个睿智的人，对我而言，并不是做事情做得‘更好’的问题，”她在1973年的日记中吐露心声：“那是我唯一的存在方式。如果我不能做到睿智，我会就徘徊在紧张症的边缘。”
The reader of “As Consciousness Is Harnessed to Flesh” might wish to strike out “catatonic” and insert “self-absorbed” or “self-lacerating” or “self-pitying” — malign spirits in danger of possessing Sontag whenever she paused from thinking. “I’m being wasted by self-pity and self-contempt,” she wrote on her 38th birthday (Jan. 16, 1971), the pithiest voicing of a frequently repeated sentiment. Just occasionally, she wanders close to distraction — not yielding to daydream, exactly, but failing to focus on the matter at hand:
《因意识羁于肉身：1963-1981》(As Consciousness Is Harnessed to Flesh)一书的读者，也许希望删除“紧张症”，添上“自恋”、“自虐”或“自怜”。每当桑塔格停止思考，这些有害的情绪就跑来占据她。“自怜和自轻正在耗尽我的心力，”她在38岁生日那天（1971年1月6日）写道，精炼地描述了屡屡反复的多愁善感。只有很少的时候，她会走神到近乎分心涣散的状态，确切地说，虽不够道做白日梦的程度，却也不能专注于手边事：
“I couldn’t react to Joe [Chaikin’s] news today — that he would shortly have a very dangerous heart operation followed by six months’ convalescence. I couldn’t feel, I couldn’t concentrate — even while he was talking. . . . I started to feel anxious, depressed, restless. But not about him. About me: Where was I? Why couldn’t I lay hands on my feelings?”
“我今天无法对有关乔［谢肯］(Joe Chaikin)的消息做出回应。结束六个月的康复期后，不久他将接受一次非常危险的心脏手术。我失去了感知能力，无法集中精神，即便在他讲话过程中……。我开始焦虑、沮丧、慌张。可不是为了他。是为我自己：我在哪儿？我为什么感觉不到自己？”
“As Consciousness” is the second of three projected volumes of Sontag’s diaries, edited by her son, David Rieff. The first, “Reborn” (2008), began in 1947, when she was 14, and ended in 1963, the year of publication of her debut novel, “The Benefactor.” By the time she opened a new notebook in May 1964, she was developing into a writer adept at both fact and fiction. What distinguishes Sontag from other two-handers, like Norman Mailer, Joan Didion, James Baldwin and Gore Vidal, is her worship of intellectualism as a goal in itself. The essays of her first nonfiction book, “Against Interpretation” (1966), are anything but “against”: they are smothered by the impulse to catch and classify not only her ideas but those of others. The book is a testament to an implausibly wide range of reading, some of it, like the essays on Camus and Nathalie Sarraute, worth revisiting; but with a good deal of creaky opinion too. “All thought, as Sartre knows, universalizes.” Does it? Does he? Change it to “All thought, as Sartre knows, particularizes,” and it makes just as much sense. In the same year as her essay “Sartre’s ‘Saint Genet’ ” was written, 1963, the 30-year-old confided to her diary: “Loving is the highest mode of valuing, preferring. But it’s not a state of being.” The preferred state of being was “being intelligent.” Low moods color the pages of “As Consciousness,” and perhaps the lowest was when she suspected she was “becoming just as stupid as everybody else.” In August 1968, having neglected her journal for some time, she awoke with a “mini-thought,” which offered fleeting pleasure. “So I spoke out loud, rather self-consciously: ‘Well, what do you know. An idea!’ . . . And the sound of my voice in this room with nobody but me here profoundly depressed me.”
《因意识羁于肉身》是计划中桑塔格日记三卷本的第二卷，由她的儿子大卫·里夫(David Rieff)编辑。第一卷《重生》（Reborn ，2008年）从1947年、桑塔格14岁时开始，止于1963年，当年她的首部小说《恩主》(The Benefactor)出版。到1964年5月，她打开了一本新的日记本。当时，她正在成长为一名对事实和虚构同时驾轻就熟的作者。桑塔格与其他两面手想比，比如诺曼·梅勒( Norman Mailer)、琼·迪迪安(Joan Didion)、詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)和戈尔·维达尔(Gore Vidal)，正是她把对理智主义的崇拜本身视为目标。她第一本非虚构类作品《反对阐释》（Against Interpretation，1966年）里的评论文章，完全没有“反对”之意：渴望理解和分类的冲动浸淫其中，针对的不仅是她自己，而且还包括其他人的见解。那本书展现了一种令人难以置信的广泛阅读面，其中部分文章，像评论加缪和纳塔丽·萨洛特的几篇，值得一读再读；可当中也有不少陈腐的观点。“就萨特所知，一切思想具有普遍性。”是吗？萨特知道吗？改成“就萨特所知，一切思想具有特殊性”，同样说得通。1963年，在写作《萨特的<圣热内>》(Sartre’s “Saint Genet”)一文的同年，30岁的桑塔格在日记中吐露：“爱是最高形式的珍视、偏幸。可这不是存在的状态。”首选的存在状态是“成为有识之士”。低落的心情弥漫在《因意识羁于肉身》的纸面上，她最低落的时候，大概是当她怀疑自己“正变得和其他人一样蠢”的时候。1968年8月，在把日记荒废了一段时间后，一丝“微小的想法”将她唤醒，带来转瞬即逝的快乐。“于是，我故意大声说出：‘哦，真想不到。有主意了！’……在这间除了我没有别人的房，我发出的嗓音令自己沮丧万分。”
Part of the despair derived from the absence of a female friend. There is a great deal here about conflicts with lovers, mostly though not exclusively female, much of it couched in Sontag’s signature style of self-analysis: “Diana [Kemeny] — no neg[ative] transference; doesn’t permit anger, tears; my accomplice; tell me something in detail.” Time after time, love lets her down. The most poignant feature of these diaries is the evidence they contain of the diarist trying to feel, but forced to confess to an inability to do so. Love was fickle; only ideas offered constancy (or seemed to: Sontag was famous for her recantations, as well as for her ­certainties).
绝望之情部分源于她没有一个女性朋友。日记中有大量关于和恋人发生冲突的内容，不过大部分并不仅限于同性恋人，多数措辞体现桑塔格独特的自我分析风格：“戴安娜［凯梅尼,Diana Kemeny］，没有负向的情感转移；不允许生气、流泪；我的同谋；请告诉我具体的细节。”爱情一而再、再而三地令她消沉。这些日记最辛酸的地方在于，它证明了作者努力想用心感受、却无奈承认无能为力。爱情变幻无常，唯有思想恒久不变（或看似如此：桑塔格既以坚定的信念、又以放弃自己的主张而闻名。）
Relief came with making a list. The journals are full of word lists, lists of books to buy, films to see, quotations, things to do. As published, the notebooks will serve as a grand research tool for scholars, but common readers must hack their way through thickets of fragmented thought. Here are seven entries on a not untypical day, from 1964:
开列清单带来了些许慰藉。日记中充斥着词汇表、欲购的书目清单、要看的电影清单、摘录的引文、要做的事。这些记事本一经出版，将成为学者重要的研究工具，而普通读者，必须在芜杂的思想碎片中披荆斩棘。以下是1964年典型一天里的七条笔记：
“Find Schapiro essay on modern art in The Listener, 1956”
“找到1956年《听众》(The Listener)杂志上夏皮罗(Schapiro)论现代艺术的文章”
“Warhol ideas: single image (monoto­nized); the impersonal”
“沃霍尔(Schapiro)的观点：单一图像（无变化）；客观不带感情”
“ ‘What is it?’ before ‘Is it any good?’ ”
“‘是什么？’先于‘有没有用？’”
“André Breton, a connoisseur of ­freedom”
“安德烈·布勒东(André Breton)，自由的行家”
“duchamp”
“杜尚(duchamp)”
“Meyer Schapiro”
“麦耶尔·夏皮罗(Meyer Schapiro)”
“ ‘The Nature of Abstract Art,’ Marxist Quarterly, vol. 1, no. 1 (1937) reply by Delmore Schwartz, a reply to that by Scha­piro, op. cit., vol. 1, no. 2 (April-June 1937)”
“《抽象艺术的本质》(The Nature of Abstract Art)，《马克思主义季刊》(Marxist Quarterly)第一册第一期（1937年）戴尔莫·施瓦茨(Delmore Schwartz)的回应，夏皮罗对此的答复，同前书，第一册第二期（1937年4月—6月）”
There are sharp remarks on the contrast between America and Europe, like the observation that psychoanalysis took root in the United States, “as it did nowhere in Europe, because it supports the feasibility of ‘the pursuit of happiness.’ ” Back home after one Atlantic crossing, she notes, “I’m in exile (America) from my exile (Europe).” When she quips that Mary McCarthy “can do anything with her smile; she can even smile with it,” it highlights the relative absence of such moments.
日记中尖锐地论述了美国和欧洲的差别。比如精神分析在美国扎根的现象，“这不曾发生在欧洲任何地方，因为精神分析支持的是‘追求幸福’的可行性。”经过一次横渡大西洋之旅，返回家后，她写道，“我从放逐（欧洲）变成放逐（美国）。”当她调侃玛丽·麦卡锡(Mary McCarthy )“能够凭微笑做成任何事；她甚至能够凭微笑而微笑”时，强调的是这类时刻在自己身上的相对缺失。
Rieff’s editing is discreet on the one hand, and intrusive on the other. For example, in August and September of 1968, Sontag datelined her diary entries “Stockholm.” Was she there for the making of her film “Duet for Cannibals,” which is set in Sweden and was released in 1969? We don’t find out. Sontag included little about this film and its successor, “Brother Carl” (1971), in her diaries — casting, shooting (she wrote and directed both films), relations with actors — just as she rarely wrote about events surrounding the publication of her books. That can’t be helped, but some contextual foundation from the editor on the creative work being done while the diaries were piling up would have been welcome. Sontag tells us that “Brother Carl” had a “disastrous reception,” and that’s about all. At the same time, the decision to do without footnotes has led Rieff to pack what he feels to be helpful information into square brackets; the intention is to aid the flow of rumination, but the effect is to hinder it. A typical memo, to remind herself to listen again to certain composers, comes out like this: “To rehear: [Henry] Purcell, [Jean-Philippe] Rameau, [Ludwig van] Beethoven’s Fifth, ‘La Mer,’ [Frédéric] Chopin, late [Franz] Liszt, [Franz] Schubert’s Eighth.”
里夫的编选一方面小心谨慎，另一方面插手太多。例如，1968年8月和9月，桑塔格给“斯德哥尔摩”条目下的每篇日记标注了日期。当时，她是在那儿制作以瑞典为背景、1969年发行的电影《食人族二重奏》（Duet for Cannibals）吗？我们无从得知。有关该片及之后的《卡尔兄弟》（Brother Carl，1971年），桑塔格在日记里几乎只字未提——无论选角、拍摄（她自编自导了这两部影片），还是和演员的关系——正如她不常记述围绕自己著作出版而发生的事一样。这点无法弥补，但在整理日记的过程中，编者本尽可以根据已有的创作，提供某些上下文基础。桑塔格告诉我们，《卡尔兄弟》遭到“一片恶评”，仅此而已。与此同时，由于决定不加脚注，里夫把他认为有用的信息填塞在方括号内。目的是有助于深入思考的连贯性，但效果适得其反。一篇颇具代表性的备忘录，旨在提醒自己要再听一遍的若干作曲家，最后成了这副模样：“重听：［亨利］普赛尔(Henry Purcell)、［让—菲利普］拉莫( Jean-Philippe Rameau)、［路德维希·范］贝多芬(Ludwig van Beethoven)的第五交响曲、《海》、［弗里德里克］肖邦(Frédéric Chopin)、后期的［弗朗茨］李斯特（Franz Liszt）、［弗朗茨］舒伯特(Franz Schubert)的第八交响曲。”
Rieff writes that on her deathbed Sontag “spoke of only two people,” her mother and the Russian émigré poet Joseph Brodsky. Mildred Sontag was a dominant figure in “Reborn,” as she is here, usually featuring in tormented reflection. Brodsky, on the other hand, was a source of pleasure, with whom Sontag had developed, Rieff says, “perhaps the only sentimental relation of equals . . . in her entire life.” Brodsky swaggers appealingly through the final years of this installment, issuing flashes of wit and his own form of dogma. “Joseph: ‘Censorship is good for writers. . . . It increases metaphoric powers of the language.’ ” His influence doubtless helped shame Sontag out of her sympathy for the system that had condemned him to Arctic exile in the years before their acquaintance. Rieff writes that “she did come to regret . . . her faith in the emancipatory possibilities of Communism.”
里夫写道，桑塔格在临终的床上“只提起两个人”，她的母亲和俄国流亡诗人约瑟夫·布罗茨基(Joseph Brodsky)。米尔德丽德·桑塔格(Joseph Brodsky)是《重生》里一个举足轻重的人物，和此时一样，她通常在痛苦的反思中占有一席之地。相反，布罗茨基是快乐的源泉，里夫说，桑塔格与他建立的，“也许是终其一生……同辈间唯一饱含深情的关系。”布罗茨基潇洒风光地走完命运给他的最后岁月，播撒智慧的火花和属于他自己的信条。“约瑟夫：‘审查制度对作者是好事……那增强了语言的隐喻力量。’”他的影响和感染，无疑促使桑塔格为自己在两人相识前、同情判处布罗茨基流放极地多年的那个体制而感到羞愧。里夫写道：“她的确开始后悔……相信共产主义会带来解放的可能。”
In an essay on Cesare Pavese’s notebooks, later included in “Against Interpretation,” Sontag asked: “Why do we read a writer’s journal? Because it illuminates his books? Often it does not.” Rather, the interest lies in encountering “the writer in the first person . . . the ego behind the masks of ego in an author’s works.” By then, 1962, she had been keeping diaries for 15 years, chasing the ego behind the mask, glimpsing it now and then, seldom liking what she saw.
桑塔格曾写了一篇论凯撒·帕韦泽(Cesare Pavese)的记事本的文章，后收入《反对阐释》一书，她提出：“我们为什么要阅读作者的日记？因为日记阐明了他的书吗？通常不是。”更确切地说，日记的趣味在于接触“第一手的作者……作家作品中自我面具背后的那个自我。”到那时，1962年，桑塔格已坚持写了15年日记，追索面具背后的自我，偶尔得窥，见到的却鲜有自己喜欢的样子。