LUXOR, Egypt — For weeks, a group of explorers have scanned the walls of a tomb in the Valley of the Kings, using radar and infrared devices, in the hopes that science might confirm one Egyptologist’s theory: that hidden behind a wall of King Tutankhamen’s burial chamber sits the long-sought tomb of Queen Nefertiti.
埃及，路索 –-- 近几周来，勘探员用雷达和红外线设备扫描帝王谷一座墓穴的墙体，希望通过科学技术证实一位埃及学者的理论：长久以来人们一直在寻找的妮菲蒂蒂王后的墓穴就隐藏在图坦卡门王的墓室墙后。
The prospect of such a discovery is beyond tantalizing, and would be as momentous a find as any here for almost a century, antiquities officials say. It would also come at a time when Egypt’s tourism industry, frozen by years of political unrest and fears of militant attacks, is in urgent need of good news.
掌管古代文物的官员说，这是大家热切盼望而且会成为近一世纪来意义最重大的一项发现。埃及的旅游业在多年来政治骚乱和武装攻击的恐惧下几近崩溃，这样的好消息来得正及时。
For the noted Egyptologist, Nicholas Reeves, the tests could vindicate his arguments that two of the walls in the tomb of Tutankhamen, also known as King Tut, are likely to mask hidden rooms, and that the tomb itself was in fact an antechamber to a larger burial complex that belonged to Nefertiti, Pharoah Akhenaten’s powerful queen who according to some theories, succeeded him as ruler of Egypt.
对知名的埃及学家尼古拉.瑞弗思来说，这个探测可能证实他的论点。他认为图坦卡门墓穴中的两面墙，很可能遮掩住一些隐藏的墓室。这个图坦王（图坦卡门王的简称）的墓穴其实是一个更大的墓葬的前堂，这座墓葬属于妮菲蒂蒂，法老王阿肯纳腾显贵的王后，后来更继承其位成为埃及的统治者。
Dr. Reeves acknowledges that Egyptian officials, including some of his colleagues in the search, do not share the conviction that Nefertiti is waiting to be found in any undiscovered chambers.
瑞弗思博士承认，有些埃及官员，包括他的一些从事同样研究的同事，并不认同妮菲蒂蒂正在隐藏的墓室中静待被发现的这个观点。
For Egypt, there is much at stake. The government is desperate for the kind of earth-shattering archaeological find that would lure tourists back to its ancient monuments. Visitors have been driven away from everywhere in Egypt but its beaches, and in the last few weeks, the seaside resorts have emptied, too, after militants claimed responsibility for downing a plane full of Russian beachgoers in late October, killing everyone onboard.
对埃及来说，这的确是利害攸关。政府迫切希望惊天动地的考古发现把观光客拉回埃及古代遗迹。近年来除了海滩，别的地方已经罕见游客，而最近几周，武装分子声称十月底击落俄机无人生还之后，连海滨胜地也空荡荡的了。
With that gathering sense of urgency, the explorers emerged from Tutankhamen’s tomb this weekend, plainly exhausted by the work but carrying what they said was promising news: Radar scans had provided strong evidence of hollow chambers behind the walls. Mamdouh Eldamaty, Egypt’s antiquities minister, said at a news conference announcing the findings that there was an “approximately 90 percent” chance that something — “another chamber, another tomb” — was waiting beyond Tutankhamen’s burial chamber.
带着这样的急迫感，上个周末，图坦卡门墓室的勘探员疲惫不堪地出了墓室，却带来大有指望的消息：雷达扫描提供了强有力的证据，显示在墙后有中空的墓室。马度.艾达马迪，埃及的文物部长，在新闻发布会上宣布了一些发现:“约百分之九十的几率，有另一墓室，另一墓穴”在图坦卡门的墓葬后面，有待发掘。
“I think it’s a very good result,” he said, adding that more analysis would be carried out over the coming weeks on the radar data to try to determine more precisely what is beyond the walls. After that, researchers may drill into the walls to get an even better look, though there is no set timetable for that step.
他说：“这是个很好的结果。”他还说在此后几周，对雷达资料将作更多的分析以精确判断墙后到底是什么。然后研究者会在墙上钻洞来做更仔细的探测，不过这个步骤并没有具体的时间表。
Hours after the news conference on Saturday, the explorers returned to Tutankhamen’s tomb, where Hirokatsu Watanabe, the Japanese specialist carrying out the radar scans, surveyed an area outside the entrance to the burial chamber. Mr. Watanabe dragged his silver, battered-looking device back and forth across the dirt, as journalists followed his every move and another member of the team took notes.
星期六的新闻发布会几小时后，勘探员就回到图坦卡门墓穴，日本专家渡边广胜做雷达扫描的地方，在墓葬的入口外侧进行勘查。在记者环视和其他各人仔细记录的同时，渡边先生用一个银白色七凸八凹的机器在尘土上来回拖拉。
Among those watching was Mustafa Waziry, the director of antiquities of Luxor. “I’m an archaeologist, I don’t know what it means,” Mr. Waziry said, speaking of the results of the radar tests. But the implications were clear.
观察者之中，有一位穆斯塔法. 瓦兹里，是路索文物部主任。瓦兹里先生谈到雷达探测结果，说：“我是个考古学家，我不懂这些东西。”可是言外之意很明显。
“If we discover something, it will turn the world inside out,” he said. “And they will come.”
“只要有发现，就能把这个世界翻个个儿。”他说：“早晚的事儿！”
He can only hope. Mr. Waziry and his colleagues have watched in anguish over the last four years as tourism in Egypt collapsed since the uprising against President Hosni Mubarak in 2011.
过去四年，眼看着2011年反穆巴拉克的暴乱之后埃及的旅游业崩溃，瓦兹里和同事烦恼之极。现在他只能盼望着有所发现。
The year before the uprising, he said, 12,000 people stood in long lines each day to visit the attractions in Luxor. By 2012, the number had plummeted to as few as 300 a day, mirroring a broader disappearance across the country of treasured cultural tourists who spent generously on extended tours of Egypt’s temples and museums.
他说，暴乱前一年，每天都有12000人排着长龙参观路索的景点。2012年，下降到每天只有300人。这反映着在埃及全境珍稀文化的参观者普遍减少，他们过去周游埃及各地的寺庙、博物馆，消费额极高。
The numbers had recently started to inch upward, until the crash of the Russian plane, which increased security concerns at Egypt’s airports and caused several countries to either sever or restrict air travel to Egypt.
旅游人数最近稍有增加，到了俄国飞机坠机又骤然而止。坠机事件提高了埃及机场安全的疑虑，也使许多国家或停止或限制飞往埃及的航班。
“We are plowing in the ocean,” Mr. Waziry said, as Mr. Watanabe packed up his equipment. “We need something like this.”
渡边收拾起工具，瓦兹里先生说，“我们干的是绝地求生的事儿，我们需要这类玩意儿。”
Dr. Reeves, who previously worked at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, set off the search with a paper last summer titled “The Burial of Nefertiti?” His starting point was an analysis of high-resolution color photographs of the tomb, published in 2014 by Factum Arte, a Spanish company specializing in art replication.
瑞弗思博士，过去在大都会艺术博物馆工作，去年夏天写了一篇文章启动了这项研究，标题是：妮菲蒂蒂的埋葬地？ 他的开头是这个墓地高解析度彩色照片的分析，由一家专精艺术品复制的西班牙公司Factum Arte 在2014年所发表。
“Cautious evaluation of the Factum Arte scans over the course of several months has yielded results which are beyond intriguing: indications of two previously unknown doorways,” he wrote. One was probably a storeroom, he said, and the other, on the tomb’s north wall, was likely a continuation of the tomb containing an “earlier royal internment — that of Nefertiti herself, celebrated consort, co-regent, and eventual successor of Pharaoh Akhenaten.”
他说：“对Factum Arte的扫描历时数月精细的检视后，有了极其令人兴奋的发现: 迹象显示有两个过去不为人知的出入口。 ”一个可能是贮藏室，另一个在墓穴的北墙，可能是墓室的延伸，其中有“更早期的皇家墓葬，是妮菲蒂蒂本人，鼎鼎大名的王后，摄政王，后来也是法老王阿肯納腾的继位人。”
Dr. Reeves cited other supporting evidence, positing that what is regarded as Tutankhamen’s tomb, which was discovered by Howard Carter in 1922, had in fact “been both initiated and employed for the burial of Nefertiti.”
瑞弗思博士引述了其他的证据，断定1922年霍华德.卡特所发现的图坦卡门的墓穴，其实是“起动了也完成了妮菲蒂蒂的墓葬。”
When Tutankhamen died unexpectedly at the age of 19 — about a decade after Nefertiti’s death — her tomb was reopened, and a portion of it reconfigured to accommodate the young king, according to Dr. Reeves.
瑞弗思博士认为，图坦卡门19岁时突然死亡，大约在妮芙蒂蒂死亡后十年，她的墓穴重开，部分改建，以容纳早夭的国王。
At least one prominent Egyptologist believes that the entire project will turn up nothing. Dr. Zahi Hawass, a former Egyptian antiquities minister, who for years was the swaggering, public face of the country’s archaeological discoveries and a rainmaker for tourism, ticked off a list of reasons there might be nothing hidden behind the walls — and certainly, he said, not Nefertiti.
至少有一位声名卓著的埃及学家认为这整个的发掘项目肯定徒劳无功。扎希.哈瓦斯博士，前埃及文物部长，多年来是埃及考古发现的大师级人物，也是观光业的大腕，提出了一连串理由表明墙后可能什么也没有，尤其是绝没有妮菲蒂蒂。
“I am an archaeologist for 40 years,” Dr. Hawass said. “I can smell a discovery, and this is no discovery at all.”
“我干考古40年了，”哈瓦斯博士说：“要是有个发现，我肯定会意识到，可这根本不是。”
But despite his criticisms, Dr. Hawass acknowledged that “all of us are desperate for good news.” Whether a discovery was looming, or not, the search itself had begun to stir hope among the proprietors of Luxor’s empty travel agencies and markets.
尽管他批评这个项目，哈瓦斯博士也承认“我们都迫切地需要好消息。”不管发现到来与否，这个探索本身已经搅动了路索空荡荡的旅游市场业主心中的热切盼望。
Bahaa Youssef, who works as a travel manager at Sunrise Tours in the city, said the company was running out of inventive ways to make money. “Egypt needs big events, to make people look at us again,” Mr. Youssef said.
巴哈.尤瑟夫，是路索的Sunrise Tours 公司的旅游经理，他说这家公司已经再没什么别出心裁的办法赚钱了。尤瑟夫说：“埃及需要大事件，让大家再注意我们。”
With their camera crews trailing, Dr. Reeves and his colleagues were at the very least creating a buzz, perhaps taking a page from Dr. Hawass, with his showmanship and grand pronouncements.
有摄影人员紧跟着，瑞弗思博士和同事们“用演技和大话” （借用哈瓦斯博士的话）的的确确搞得挺热闹的。
“If we find what I think is there,” Dr. Reeves said, “it will be bigger than Tutankhamen.”
瑞弗思博士则表示：“要是找到了我想找的东西，那就是件比发现图坦卡门还了不起的大事。”