On a Sunday evening last September, stevia became famous. In the final episode of “Breaking Bad,” an image of the sweetener filled the TV screen. Lydia emptied the packet into her mug of camomile tea, not knowing that Walt, her former partner, had poisoned it. “How are you feeling?” he later asked. “Kind of under the weather, like you’ve got the flu? That would be the ricin I gave you. I slipped it into that stevia crap that you’re always putting in your tea.”
去年9月的一个星期天，甜菊糖一夜成名。在《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)的最后一集里，这种甜味剂填满了电视屏幕。莉迪娅(Lydia)将一包糖倒进了她的那杯洋甘菊茶里，浑然不知她的老搭档沃尔特(Walt)在里面下了毒。“你感觉怎样？”接着他问：“是不是觉得不太舒服，像是得了流感呢？那是因为你吃进了我下的蓖麻毒。我搁到你总是在茶里洒的这种垃圾甜菊糖里去了。”
In an interview with The Guardian, published the next day, the actress who played Lydia laughed about the product anti-placement: “Sorry, stevia,” she said. “Oh, I suppose it feels a bit rubbish. Do you think anyone actually bought it anyway?”
次日出版的《卫报》(The Guardian)刊登了对扮演莉迪娅的演员的采访，她笑着谈起了这种甜味剂。“对不起啊，甜菊糖，”她说：“噢，我觉得这玩意是有点垃圾。真的会有人到哪儿都带着这种糖？”
Actually, yes. The natural, noncaloric sweetener, made from the leaves of a Paraguayan shrub, now sits in second place in the $400 million market for sugar-bowl sachets. (Sucralose hangs on at No. 1.) When Cargill introduced the leading brand of stevia, called Truvia, in 2008, the company heralded it as “a new category of sweet.” Sure enough, imitators followed. A few weeks later, Merisant put out PureVia — made from the same ingredient — and then the manufacturer of Sweet’N Low started filling light green packets with what it called Stevia in the Raw.
事实上确实如此。这种天然的、不含热量的甜味剂由一种巴拉圭灌木的叶子制成，现在稳坐总计4亿美元的佐餐糖包市场的第二把交椅。（三氯蔗糖仍保持第一名。）2008年，美国嘉吉公司(Cargill)推出了甜菊糖类产品的领先品牌崔薇亚(Truvia)，该公司宣称它是“糖类的新品种”。可想而知，效仿者趋之若鹜。几星期后，美利生公司(Merisant)推出纯味(PureVia)——使用的是同一种原材料——随后这家代糖纤而乐(Sweet’N Low)的制造厂商又生产出了一种淡绿色包装的糖包，名为甜菊原糖(Stevia in the Raw)。
That was five years ago, yet most of us have few associations with the product. Splenda, Equal, Sweet’N Low: These are household names. Stevia’s still an arriviste, the oddball at the coffee bar.
这是五年前的事情了，不过，我们大部分人难以将这些商品名联系在一起。善品(Splenda)、怡口(Equal)、纤而乐：这些都是家喻户晓的名字。甜菊糖仍是后起之秀，咖啡厅调味台上的古怪家伙。
But the battle for the sugar-substitute market is not about packets on the table; the real money is in being the go-to additive for diet foods, especially diet drinks. When the F.D.A. approved a chemical called cyclamate in 1951, a brand-new industry emerged: No-Cal soda, Diet Rite and all the other sugar-free refreshments. Cyclamate was banned in 1969 for promoting bladder cancer in rats, but aspartame later took its place. In 1983, Coca-Cola put aspartame-based NutraSweet in Diet Coke, and sales soared. “The rule of thumb is that 60 percent of all high-potency sweetener sales is in beverages,” says John Fry, a food scientist and 40-year industry veteran who consults on sweeteners for Cargill. “You have to be in soft drinks, one way or another.”
不过，代糖市场角逐的并不是餐桌上的糖罐；它们要力争成为低卡食品、尤其是低卡饮料中添加的甜味剂。1951年，当美国食品药品管理局(FDA)批准了一种叫甜蜜素的化合物上市后，一个全新的产业应运而生：零热量汽水(No-Cal soda)、低卡莱特可乐(Diet Rite)和其他各种不含糖的点心。1969年，甜蜜素因为导致大鼠患膀胱癌而被禁，但阿斯巴甜(asoartame)很快取而代之。1983年，可口可乐公司在健怡可乐(Diet Coke)中加入了以阿斯巴甜为主要甜味来源的善品糖，销量骤然飙升。“我们有一个经验法则，那就是在所有高效甜味素中，有60%是由饮料公司购买，”食品科学家约翰·弗莱(John Fyr)说，他拥有40年的行业经验，现在担任嘉吉公司的甜味剂顾问，“所以不管用什么办法，你必须挤进软饮料市场。”
As badly as stevia needs the soft-drink companies, the soft-drink companies may need stevia even more. While sweetened carbonated beverages still make up around one-fifth of all the liquids we consume, the volume sold has dropped, per capita, every year since 1998. We’re more afraid of sugar than we’ve ever been. What yesterday were seen as “empty calories” have today been designated “toxic.” Doctors warn that cans of soda put fat into your liver, weaken your response to insulin and increase your risk of heart disease and diabetes. The panic over sugar has grown so pervasive that other dietary boogeymen — salt and fat and gluten — seem like harmless flunkies in comparison. (In 2012, when the market-research firm Mintel asked consumers which ingredients or foods they were trying to avoid, sugar and added sugar topped the list, by a wide margin.)
甜菊糖需要软饮料企业，软饮料企业则更加需要甜菊糖。尽管甜味碳酸饮料仍占据了饮料市场的两成，但自从1998年以来，人均销量逐年下跌。对于糖，我们从未像这样惊惧。昔日的“空热量”，在如今被视为“毒品”。医生警告说，大量饮用汽水会令我们的肝脏积累脂肪，削减我们对胰岛素的反应，并提高患心脏病和糖尿病的危险。对于糖的恐慌是如此深入人心，其他食品恶魔——盐、脂肪、面筋蛋白——相形之下，好像成了无伤大雅的小捣蛋。（2012年，市场调研机构明特尔[Mintel]询问消费者，他们会尽力避免哪种调味品或食物，结果原糖和添加糖在榜单上遥遥领先。）
The soda companies have tried to tack into the headwind: In 2010, PepsiCo promised to reduce the sugar in its products by 25 percent, and the following year Coca-Cola told the British government that it would cut the calories in soda. But consumers are not content to switch to artificial sweeteners. Sales volume of diet soda fell by 12 percent in the last six years. Far from serving as a life raft for the industry, that business is leaking dollars, too.
汽水厂商们一直想要顺应时代：2010年，百事公司承诺将产品中所含的糖减少25%，次年，可口可乐公司告知英国政府，它将减少汽水中的热量。但消费者并不愿意转而改吃人工糖。低卡热水的销量在过去这六年里降低了12%。代糖工业远未能成为汽水业的救生阀，自身的利润也在下滑。
The problem is that for all the fear of fructose, consumers have grown just as wary of its beaker-born alternatives. To health fanatics, they seem noxious on their face: Sweet’N Low comes from a derivative of coal; Equal is made from methanol and converts to formaldehyde when digested; Splenda is a chlorinated sugar. Others worry over well-worn rumors of their ill effects — tumors, headaches and depression. More recent studies hint that diet drinks can cause the very problem they’re meant to solve and make us fat instead of thin. (Lab rats fed with noncaloric sweeteners sometimes start to overeat, as if the ersatz sugar primed their rodent tongues for other sweets.)
问题在于，消费者固然害怕天然的果糖，可同时，他们也对实验室里诞生的代糖渐生警惕。对于健康盲信者，代糖无异于毒品：纤而乐是用煤炭的衍生物制成的；怡口糖源于甲醇，消化后则会转化为甲醛；善品糖是种氯化糖。其他人则因为各种有关代糖副作用的传说而忧心忡忡，比如肿瘤、头痛和抑郁。更多的近期研究显示，低卡饮料可能会引起原本想要解决的问题，它非但无法达到让我们变瘦的目的，反而会让我们发胖。（实验室里由零卡路里甜味剂喂饲的大鼠有时会出现暴食症状，似乎代糖为鼠类的舌头品尝其他甜食做好了准备。）
The science on these questions is inconclusive at best. There’s no clear evidence that artificial sweeteners cause cancer or obesity, at least in human beings. But the fear of artificial sweeteners was never quite a function of the scientific evidence — or never of just that. It stems as much from a sense that every pleasure has its consequences: that when we try to hack our taste buds in the lab — to wrench the thrill of sugar from its ill effects — we’re cheating at a game we’ll never win.
关于这类疑问，科学尚未给出明确的答案。现在没有确切的证据证明人工甜味剂可引发癌症或肥胖症，至少在人类身上如此。可是，对人工甜味剂的恐惧向来不是科学证据行使的作用——至少不仅仅如此。它同时也源于一种认知，那就是任何一种快感都会产生相应的后果：当我们想在实验室里哄骗自己的味蕾时——想要享受糖带来的愉悦感，同时又避免它的副作用——我们就是在一场永远不会获胜的比赛中作弊。
Because it came from a plant, stevia seemed to offer a way to sneak around the rules. “We’ve been consuming sweetened products for 8,000 years,” says Jim Kempland, a former sales manager for NutraSweet and later vice-president of marketing for Sweet Green Fields, a U.S.-based stevia producer. “The enormous rates of obesity both here and globally are not going to curtail our human cravings for sweet things. The alternative, or possibly the solution, would be to ask, How do we create those things naturally, so that they can fit into a lifestyle that allows us to have things we like?”
甜菊糖是从植物中提取出来，看来提供了一种绕过各种定数的方法。“8000年来，我们一直在吃天然的甜食，”吉姆·凯普兰(Jim Kempland)说，他曾是善品糖的销售经理，后来在总部位于美国的甜菊糖生产企业SGF(Sweet Green Fields)任营销副总裁。“无论是在美国还是全球，惊人的肥胖比例都不可能抑制人类对甜食的渴望。替代的选择，或者是可能的解决方案，也许是去问，我们怎样才能用天然的方法制造甜食，让它们适合于我们的生活方式，允许我们享用自己喜欢的东西？”
The beverage companies knew that sales growth in the natural category had almost tripled that of other foods and beverages, driven by the intuition that they’re better for our health. What if Diet Coke or Diet Pepsi could be made into a “natural” product — a sweet-tasting drink with zero calories and nothing artificial? Would a more wholesome substitute for sugar — one that comes from plants instead of factories — let us have our sweets and eat them too?
饮料公司都清楚，天然产品的销量增幅已经接近其他食品和饮料门类的三倍，因为人们的直观感受是它们对我们的健康更有益。如果健怡可乐或百事轻怡成为一种“天然”饮品——喝起来甜，但完全不含热量和人工甜味剂的饮料，结果将会怎样？一种更加有益健康的代糖——它来自于植物，而非工厂——是否会让我们得到甜食并安然享用？
But the industry soon discovered that its salvation would have to be postponed. For all the hype, stevia had a fatal flaw: Its taste.
但是，食品业界很快就发现，拯救大业需要延期。纵使对甜菊糖有诸多吹捧，但它有一个致命伤：口感。
Deep inside Cargill’s corporate headquarters in Wayzata, Minn., where it runs its $136 billion business, a technician in a hairnet put out a bowl of strawberries. Melanie Goulson, a food scientist in the company’s corn-milling unit, had taken me to a laboratory kitchen outfitted with frying pans and cleavers and stir-plates spinning fluids with Teflon-coated bars. She waited as I dipped a berry in a sample of white granules and popped it in my mouth.
嘉吉公司的市值达1360亿美元，走进位于明尼苏达州维扎塔市的公司总部深处，一位戴着发套的技术员端出一盘草莓。公司玉米研磨部门的食品科学家梅兰妮·古尔森(Melanie Goulson)带我来到了一间试验厨房，里面配有煎锅、切肉刀、带有特氟龙涂层隔条的脱水搅拌盘。她在一旁静候着，看我在一盘白色粉末样品中蘸了蘸草莓，然后送入口中。
Truvia felt a lot like sugar on my tongue — much more so than the rival brands — but there was something strange about its sweetness. The flavor dawdled and digressed, until it seemed as if I’d chewed a nub of licorice or soaked my gums in watered-down Campari. This has been stevia’s problem from the start: It has a bitter taste that lingers. The defect may be unobtrusive in small doses — the amount you sprinkle in your cappuccino — but it’s ruinous at the quantities it takes to make a diet soda. “Anybody who tasted stevia in 2008, when it was just about to be permitted in the United States,” Fry says, “would have been painfully aware that this was not an aspartame or a sucralose in terms of sweetness quality.”
在我的舌尖，甜菊糖感觉非常像白糖——比起其他竞争品牌来说像多了——但它的甜味有些古怪。甜味游移逃遁，到了末尾，我觉得自己是嚼了一小块甘草，或是将口香糖浸到了用水稀释的金巴利苦酒中。这是甜菊糖一开始时就碰到的问题：它有种延宕不去的苦味。剂量较小时——比如在你的卡布奇诺咖啡里加入的量——这种缺陷或许并不引人注目，但如果是制作低卡汽水需要的量，就具有毁灭性的后果了。“2008年，甜菊糖刚刚在美国批准上市，如果有人是在那会儿尝到甜菊糖，”弗莱说：“一定会郁闷地发现，在甜度上，它跟阿斯巴甜或三氯蔗糖不是一码事。”
Goulson and her team have tried to bolster stevia by blending it with other additives. “We’re trying to understand how sweet this product should be,” she said. “What features do people like? What don’t they like? How can we get the recipe just right?” In a perfect world, they’d find a way to sand down the jagged edges of its flavor, so stevia could match the taste of table sugar. (Sugar is “widely accepted as the gold standard for sweet taste,” Goulson told me.) At the very least they’re hoping to make stevia as appetizing as the chemicals in Diet Coke and Diet Pepsi. “Taste is king,” Goulson said. “I mean, the healthiest product in the world really isn’t relevant if people don’t enjoy the taste.”
古尔森和她的团队想要通过将甜菊糖跟其他添加剂结合，提升它的口感。“我们想要理解这种产品能达到什么样的甜度，”她说：“人们喜欢它的哪些特点？不喜欢哪些？我们该怎样将配方调整得恰到好处？”在一个完美的世界里，他们可以找到弱化甜菊糖粗糙口感的办法，好与砂糖的口感想媲美。（对于糖类，“普遍接受的黄金准则就是甘甜的口感，”古尔森告诉我。）至少他们希望甜菊糖能跟用在健怡可乐和百事轻怡中的化合物有着一样的好味道。“味觉为王，”古尔森说：“我的意思是，如果人们不喜欢口感，就算是世界上最健康的食物，照样没有用。”
A member of her team poured out several cups of orange liquid for me to try. It wasn’t orange juice but orange drink: The beverages had been watered down by more than half to cut the sugar content, then spiked with stevia and other natural flavors. I knew the first one they handed me would be the taste-test patsy, but even so, its awful flavor caught me by surprise: a hit of sour that slowly faded to a bitter, sticky sweet. Then I tried the second cup. Goulson had tweaked the recipe so that its sweet and sour flavors came and went in harmony. The drink contained the same amount of stevia but tasted more like orange juice. “It’s a science and an art,” she said. “Depending on the flavor, if you’re dealing with an apple-based or orange-based or berry-based system, we may change the ratio of the acids to help that flavor pop out more.”
她的一位同事给我倒了几杯橙色的液体试喝。它们不是橙汁，而是橙汁饮品：饮料的浓度被稀释了近一倍，好减去糖分，接着再用甜菊糖和其他天然调料来调整风味。我知道递给我的第一杯饮料肯定味道不佳，可我不承想，它难喝的味道还是吓了我一跳：酸得不得了，接着酸味变成了苦苦而又粘滞的甜味。我试了第二杯，古尔森调整了配方，好让甜味和酸味同时散发出来，而且更为和谐。这杯饮料中所含的甜菊糖浓度跟前面那杯一样，但喝起来更像橙汁了。“它既是科学，也是艺术，”她说：“在处理以苹果、橙子或浆果为主的食材时，根据口感，我们也许要调整酸味的比例，好让甜味更能凸显出来。”
Her artistry has limits, though. It’s possible to minimize the aftertaste of stevia, but only when there’s still some sugar to go with it. “Generally you’ve seen 30 percent, 35 percent, 50 percent [sugar] reductions on the market,” says Wade Schmelzer, one of Goulson’s lab lieutenants. The biggest soft-drink companies have shunted off the product to a little-known and little-loved class of carbonated drinks: the midcalorie soda. In parts of Europe, Coca-Cola now makes Sprite with a mix of stevia and sugar, to cut the calories by 30 percent; last June, it started selling Coca-Cola Life, another stevia-and-sugar drink, in Argentina. PepsiCo has also tried a stevia-sweetened, midcalorie version of its cola at markets in Australia. For now, their dreams of making fully natural, fully diet soda — the beverage market’s killer app — are on hold. “We know that in the end — in an ideal world,” Schmelzer said, “the customers would like to be at zero sugar.”
不过，她的艺术尚有局限。将甜菊糖的苦涩后味降到最小，这是可能的，但前提是需要有蔗糖用来搭配。“在市面上，你看到过把（白糖）比例减少30%、35%或50%的产品，”古尔森在实验室的助手韦德·施梅泽(Wade Schmelzer)说。软饮料巨头已经纷纷将注意力转移至一个鲜为人知、鲜有人喜爱的碳酸饮料门类：中等热量汽水。在欧洲部分国家，可口可乐现在用甜菊糖和白糖调配雪碧，将热量总值减少了30%；去年6月，该公司开始在阿根廷销售另一种甜菊糖-白糖混合饮料“Coca-Cola Life”。百事可乐公司则在澳大利亚市场试水，推出了添加了甜菊糖，中等热量值的可乐。目前，这些公司推出全天然、零热量的汽水——饮料市场中的杀手级应用——的梦想，得暂时搁置下来。“我们知道到最后——在一个理想的世界里，”施梅泽说：“顾客还是更青睐零热量的糖。”
Later in the day I met with Mark Brooks, Truvia’s business director. “There are those people who love artificial sweeteners,” he told me, “and there are those people for whom sugar is it; but the growing segment, and now the biggest segment (and we see this worldwide), is a group that we call the naturally splendids — those people who are really looking for that natural source.” Brooks’s department guessed that in 2010, 39 percent of household shoppers fit into this latter group, but that number may be rising.
那天晚些时候，我跟崔薇亚品牌的商业总监马克·布鲁克斯(Mark Brooks)会面。“有些人非常热爱人工甜味剂，”他告诉我：“也有些人更喜欢砂糖；但更多人，现在也是目前最主流的人群（而且在世界各地都是如此），我们称其为天然爱好者——这些人追求的是天然的食材。”布鲁克斯的部门预计，在2010年，有39%的家庭消费者属于最后这个人群，但这个数字可能还在上升。
Still, all the splendids in the world won’t help the bottom line if Truvia can’t appeal on flavor. It’s not enough to tell consumers that a product comes from farms in Paraguay. It’s not enough to let them think it’s better for their health. “At the end of the day,” Brooks said, “the consumer will buy you again because you taste great.”
不过，如果甜菊糖的味道不讨人喜欢，全世界的天然爱好者仍然不会买账。跟消费者吹嘘产品收获自巴拉圭的农庄，这还完全不够。告诉消费者，这种产品对健康有好处，也完全不够。“说到底，消费者是因为产品口感出色，才会继续购买，”布鲁克斯说。
Not every natural, noncaloric sweetener comes from stevia. As Cargill tries to grapple with its gremlins, other firms have done their best to find alternatives. In the summer of 2012, McNeil Nutritionals — the maker of Splenda — put out Nectresse, a product made from the Chinese mountain-orchard melon known as luo han guo, or monk fruit. Sold in tangerine-colored packets, Nectresse was supposed to be a more natural-seeming natural product. While few of us think of leafy plants as being sweet, monk fruit brings to mind a cantaloupe or a honeydew. “A fruit ingredient in your food or in your beverage is very intuitive for the customer,” says David Thorrold, the C.E.O. of BioVittoria, which now controls a major portion of the world’s monk-fruit supply.
并非所有天然、无热量的甜味剂都源于甜菊叶。在嘉吉公司尝试驯服它们的小捣蛋时，其他公司也在竭力寻找其他替代品。在2012年夏天，麦克尼尔营养公司(McNeil Nutritionals)——善品糖的制造厂商——推出了“妮萃丝”(Nectresse)，一种由罗汉果制成的产品，这种果实产自中国山区。妮萃丝的包装为橙黄色，应该是一种看上去更为天然的产品。尽管几乎没人相信多叶植物会十分甘甜，但罗汉果会让人联想到哈密瓜或白兰瓜。“你的食物或饮料中添加的是一种植物原材料，这对顾客来说十分有吸引力，”大卫·索罗尔德(David Thorrold)说。他是维多利亚生物公司(BioVittoria)的首席执行官，该公司现在控制了全球罗汉果控制的主要份额。
Even Cargill is developing stevia alternatives. As Nectresse hit the market, the company received a bioprospecting permit from the South African government, giving it the right to exploit the molomo monate plants that grow on rocky slopes in northeast South Africa. At her lab in Minnesota, Goulson tested a sweet-tasting amino acid drawn from those plants and concluded that it would be enough to flavor diet beverages. John Fry called it one of the finest zero-calorie sweeteners he had ever tried.
就连嘉吉公司也在开发甜叶菊的替代品。当妮萃丝打入市场时，这家公司获得了南非政府的生物勘探许可，获准开采在南非东北部岩质山坡上生长的一种叫molomo monate的植物。古尔森在她明尼苏达的实验室里测试了从这种植物中提取的甜味氨基酸，认为它的甜度足以在减肥饮料中使用，约翰·弗莱则称其是他试过的最好的零热量甜味剂之一。
Yet these ingredients have problems even worse than stevia’s. While monk-fruit extract isn’t quite as bitter, its flavor can be very slow to build, and it, too, lacks the oomph to sweeten diet soda. (It’s also more expensive.) The molomo extract tastes a lot like sugar, but when exposed to UV light, it undergoes a horrid transformation. In the early 2000s, scientists at Coca-Cola added the sweetener to bottles of Sprite, then left them on the roof over the weekend; by Monday morning, the soda had turned urine yellow and developed the smell of feces.
不过，这些成分有着比甜叶菊更严重的问题。罗汉果提取物并不像甜叶菊那么苦涩，但它的甜味在口中体现的速度非常慢，而且同样不足以为低卡汽水增甜。（而且它也贵多了。）molomo的提取物尝起来更像糖，不过一旦暴露在紫外线下，它会出现可怕的化学反应。在21世纪初，可口可乐的科学家们曾在雪碧瓶中添加了这种甜味剂，然后周末把它搁在了屋顶上；到了周一早上，汽水变成了尿黄色，而且出现了像排泄物般的气味。
So the beverage-makers have returned to where they started. Coca-Cola set out to find what is often called the holy grail of diet beverages — a natural alternative to aspartame — about 10 years ago. If today we’re stuck with stevia, a curly-haired chemist named Grant DuBois may be as much to blame as anyone.
所以，饮料制造企业回到了原点。可口可乐在10年前，就开始寻找人们口中的减肥饮料“圣杯”——一种阿斯巴甜的天然替代品。如果如今我们唯有甜叶菊一条路可走，那么，一个叫格兰特·杜布瓦(Grant DuBois)的卷发科学家恐怕首当其冲，要面对我们的指责。
DuBois left Coca-Cola in 2011, after two decades of working for the company’s global research and development team. “I was feeding my ideas into this supersecret group responsible for flavor chemistry,” he said when we met for breakfast in the suburbs of Atlanta. Now 67, DuBois runs a sweetener consultancy from his Georgia home, and he seemed most at ease while making presentations. The one he’d prepped for me described how hard it is to find a sweetener that works and why the best natural product that we have is a compromise.
杜布瓦曾在可口可乐公司的全球研发团队工作了二十载，2011年离开。“过去我一直将自己的各种想法传递给这家特别神秘的公司，而它需要为调味化学负责，”当我和杜布瓦在亚特兰大郊区一起吃早餐时，他这样对我说。现年67岁的杜布瓦现在在自己位于佐治亚州的家中经营着甜味剂咨询业务，看起来，只有在做演示时，他才显得最自如。他为我准备的PPT演示描述了寻找一种真正有用的甜味剂是多么艰辛，此外解释了为什么现有的最好的天然代糖产品只能是妥协后的产物。
A new product should be considered for development, he explained, only if it meets nine specific requirements. It’s not enough to find a chemical that’s sweet; it also has to sweeten foods in the ways that matter most, to the right degree, without an aftertaste, without a linger and without diminishing effect. And even one that has the taste of granulated sugar would be deficient if it weren’t also stable in solution, resilient to hot and cold, safe to drink, cheap to make and amenable to patenting. An “all-natural” sweetener must meet these nine metrics for success, and then a 10th: It must be taken from a living thing.
他解释说，一种新产品只有在达到九项特定标准的情况下，方可视为对此前产品的发展。光找到一种甜甜的化合物还不够；它同时还需要用最为关键的方式来给食物增甜，那就是甜度恰如其分，不留余味，气味不会停留在唇齿之间，而且不产生递减效应。而且就算某种代糖的风味与砂糖类似，如果在溶解后不稳定，对冷热环境敏感，饮用不安全，制作成本高昂，或者不满足专利权的要求，依然是有缺陷的。一种“全天然”的甜味剂必须满足上述九项成功的先决条件，外加第10条：它必须从生物中提取。
That last requirement left DuBois with little room to work. In all, there are about a hundred natural, noncaloric chemicals that, by pure coincidence or some unlikely quirk of evolution, have found a way to hijack the mouth’s machinery for sensing sugar. One category comes from animals. Lysozyme, a chemical found in tears and spit, and also in the whites of eggs, can be very sweet. (In hens and turkeys, it’s sugary but pungent; in soft-shelled turtle eggs, it tastes more like licorice.) The rest derive from vegetation, including: one compound drawn from crushed hydrangea leaves, used in Japan for sweet tea; another from a Malaysian plant called lemba, with tiny yellow flowers and fruits that look like cloves of garlic; the seeds of a swollen caper berry in Yunnan, China, which locals chew as candy; and monk fruit, a cousin to the cucumber and the bitter melon, which grows in Guangxi.
最后一个条件令杜布瓦几乎没有回旋余地。总共有约100种天然无热量的化合物，或纯属巧合，或通过某种奇妙的演化，它们巧妙地欺骗了口腔中感知甜味的机制。其中一类来自动物。溶菌酶，一种在眼泪和唾液，同时也在蛋白中存在的化合物，甜度非常高。（在母鸡和火鸡蛋白中，它虽然甜，但又有些辛辣；而在软壳的乌龟蛋中，它尝起来更像是甘草。）其余的则来自植物，包括一种从磨碎的绣球花叶中提取的化合物，在日本人们用它来泡甜茶；另一种来自马来西亚、俗称“小芋头”(lemba)的植物，它长着小小的黄花，果实像蒜头；还有一种产自中国云南、外表一嘟嘟的马槟榔种子，当地人拿它当糖果嚼食；此外就是广西的罗汉果，它是黄瓜和苦瓜的近亲。
Most of these, DuBois knew, would never stand a chance. He pushed aside his knife and fork and tilted the laptop’s screen to show me why. For the natural-sweetener project, he started with the first and most important of his tests, shown on his display as “Taste Quality Metric 1: Maximal Response.” Were any of the natural compounds strong enough to sweeten Diet Coke? At first this seemed an easy obstacle to overcome: Lysozymes are at least 10 times as sweet as sugar; monk-fruit extract is 20 times as strong as lysozyme; and the sweetener drawn from the lemba plant is 10 times more intense than monk fruit. But those numbers correspond only to tiny doses of the chemicals, enough to match the strength of, say, a teaspoon of sugar mixed into a cup of water — a 2 percent solution. To make a cup of Coca-Cola, you’d need much more: about six teaspoons’ worth of sugar, for a 10.4 percent solution. (Pepsi is a little sweeter, at 11 percent. Root beers and some fruit-flavored sodas can be 12 percent or more.) That’s where many substitutes fall short.
杜布瓦知道，这当中的大部分化合物根本没戏。他把刀叉推到一边，将笔记本电脑的屏幕向我移过来，给我解释个中缘由。为了这个天然甜味剂项目，他的第一项、也是最重要的一项实验，在他的PPT中这样表述：“味觉质量标准1：最大化的反应”。这些天然化合物是否够让低卡可乐够甜呢？乍一看，这似乎是个非常好攻克的障碍：溶菌酶的甜度至少是白糖的10倍；罗汉果提取物的甜度是溶菌酶的20倍；而从小芋头中提取的甜味剂又比罗汉果甜了10倍。但这些数字代表的只是小剂量化合物，它的甜度是跟2%浓度的白糖溶液相比，也就是一茶匙白糖溶于一杯水的浓度。可是要制成一杯可口可乐，你需要的糖要多多了：大约6茶匙白糖，浓度达10.4%。（百事可乐要甜一点，浓度为11%。沙士汽水和一些果味汽水的浓度可达12%或更高。）而这就是很多替代品的不足开始暴露的地方了。
DuBois had a set of graphs tracking how the power of a sweetener changes with its concentration. He included curves for six different compounds, from saccharin to stevia, but they all looked very much the same. Each curve rose steeply, gaining sweetness with every increment in milligrams per liter, then appeared to hit a ceiling, a point at which the sweetness flattened out. Once you reach that threshold concentration, a compound loses its effect: No matter how much more of it you pump into a beverage, you’ll never get a sweeter taste. The ceilings for some chemicals are high enough to flavor carbonated drinks. Aspartame, for example, can match the taste of sugar in a 16 percent solution. But others reach their limit much too soon. That’s why today you’ll never find a Diet Coke that’s made with saccharin. At best it would match the sweetness of a sugar drink at 10.1 percent.
杜布瓦用了一组图表来演示甜味剂随浓度改变而出现的甜度变化。他在曲线图中介绍了六种不同的化合物，从糖精到甜菊糖，但它们的曲线看起来非常相像。每条曲线都是显著上升，随着每升溶液中毫克数的增加，其甜度也在随之攀升，随后到达顶点，甜度趋于水平。一旦一种化合物到达了浓度阈值，就开始渐渐失去作用：不管你往饮料里下了多少猛料，它也不可能变得更甜了。一些化合物的甜度顶点已经足以用来为汽水增甜。比方说，阿斯巴甜的甜度与16%的白糖溶液相当。但其他化合物过早地达到顶点。所以现在你不可能找到一种用糖精制造的减肥可乐。它最多能达到10.1%的白糖溶液甜度。
He gestured at the curve for stevia, which didn’t seem much better than the one for saccharin. “That looks like a death sentence,” he said. But when I asked him to name his favorite noncaloric sweetener, DuBois demurred and cleared his throat. “None of them,” he said, “tastes like sugar.”
他让我观看甜菊糖的曲线，它看来也不比糖精的好多少。“这就像死刑宣判，”他说。我问杜布瓦，他最喜欢哪种零热量甜味剂，他对此表达异议，清了清喉咙宣布说：“它们哪个尝起来都不像白糖。”
We clicked ahead to Metric 2 — “Flavor Profile.” Most products have at least a hint of bitterness or licorice; some have a metallic note or even menthol cooling. Metric 3 considers how the compound’s taste develops on the tongue. Sip a soda made with sugar, and the taste should reach its peak of sweetness in four seconds, then fall off 10 seconds later. Zero-calorie substitutes tend to lag behind: They come on too slowly, and then — much worse — they stay too long, clinging to your mouth in a disconcerting glaze. Even aspartame takes an extra second to hit its sweetness high and hangs around an extra four before it goes away.
我们点击了标准2——“风味特性”。大部分产品至少有一丝苦味或甘草味；一些带有金属气味甚至薄荷醇的清凉感。标准3研究的则是这些化合物在舌尖展现的速度。喝一口用砂糖制成的汽水，甜味在4秒后达到顶点，10秒后消失。零卡路里的饮料则要慢一拍：甜味来得太慢了，然后——更糟糕的是——停留得太久，在你的嘴里留下令人不安的缠绵口感。甚至连阿斯巴甜也要多用1秒达到甜度峰值，消失的时间则要多花4秒。
It’s hard enough to handle these requirements, DuBois said, when you’re making chemicals from scratch. Never mind if you have to meet them using something natural. As he searched for a plant-based substitute to put in diet beverages, DuBois remembered that he played around with a compound drawn from stevia while working for a start-up in the 1970s. At the time, he figured out a way to make it work about as well as aspartame. “It still had a lingering sweetness, but no bitterness,” he said. But his lab work changed the compound’s shape. It wasn’t natural anymore.
杜布瓦说，想要从零开始创造一种化合物并满足上述条件，已经极为不易，更不消说找到某种满足条件的天然材料了。在苦苦寻觅一种可以用于减肥饮料中的天然代糖时，他想起在20世纪70年代时自己在一家初创公司工作时，曾研究过一种从甜菊叶中提取的化合物。在当时，他已经找到了一种办法，让它的提取物表现跟阿斯巴甜一样出色。“它的甜味仍然要停留一段时间，但我消除了它的苦味，”他说。但他的实验改变了这种化合物的形态。它不再是天然的了。
Could the chemical in stevia — called rebaudioside-A — work in an unaltered state? It seemed more promising than any other option on his list. Stevia was commercialized in Japan more than 30 years ago and then bred to make as much Reb-A as possible. While the sweetener has some bitterness and licorice, its warts are modest next to those of monk fruit or lemba or any of the other plant derivatives. Also a company in Kuala Lumpur called Stevian Biotechnology (later renamed PureCircle) said it could produce Reb-A on the cheap. In 2003, DuBois passed along his findings: Coca-Cola should try to make a sweetener from stevia. Others at the company agreed and made a deal with Cargill to get the plant-based ingredient approved. Coke would do the basic scientific work on stevia; Cargill would work on the supply chain. “There was no alternative,” DuBois told me, looking very serious. “I decided that of all these 100 or so compounds — all the natural, noncaloric sweeteners that are known — the one that meets the metrics best — and it’s not perfect — is Reb-A.”
甜菊叶中的这种化合物——名为莱鲍迪苷——是否可以在未改变形态的情况下起效？它看起来比他手头的其他选项都更有前景。30多年前，日本就已经将甜菊叶作物商业化，并广泛种植以提取大量莱鲍迪苷。尽管这种甜味剂仍然有点苦涩和甘草味，但它的表现跟罗汉果、小芋头或别的植物提取物相当。而且一家位于吉隆坡、名为甜叶菊生物科技（后更名为PureCircle）的公司声称可以廉价生产莱鲍迪苷。2003年，杜布瓦递交了自己的发现：可口可乐公司应当尝试用甜叶菊制造甜味剂。公司的其他人表示认同，于是他们跟嘉吉公司签了个协议，好让这种以植物为原材料的配料获得审批通过。可口可乐负责做有关甜叶菊的基础科学工作；嘉吉公司负责供应链那头。“当时别无他选，”杜布瓦表情十分严肃，他这样说：“我相信，在这100来种化合物中——它们都是天然无热量的甜叶剂——只有一种在上述标准中的表现最佳，它就是莱鲍迪苷，但它并不完美。”
At a greenhouse in East Lansing, Mich., a scientist named Ryan Warner plucked a pair of shriveled-looking leaves from a specimen of stevia. They looked like wrinkled basil, but when I put one in my mouth, it had the taste of Sen-Sen and the feel of leaded paint. Warner laughed as I did my best to gulp it down. “Did you see me spit mine out?” he said.
在密歇根州东兰辛市的一间温室，一位叫赖安·华纳(Ryan Warner)的科学家采了两瓣甜菊叶样本的叶子，叶片看起来皱巴巴的，有点像是蔫了的罗勒叶。我把一片叶子放进嘴里，尝起来它的味道像是Sen-Sen清口糖，闻起来则像含铅的油漆。我努力将叶子咽进肚里，华纳见状大笑起来。“你没看到我把自己的这片叶子给吐出来了吗？”他说。
Since 2010, Warner, an associate professor of horticulture at Michigan State University, has led a team of scientists funded by PureCircle, the top stevia producer, to engineer a better version of the crop. Rather than alter the chemical, scientists are trying to alter the plant. They’d like to find a novel strain that makes sweet-tasting compounds with less bitterness and aftertaste — a kind of superstevia. Every year, he breeds a set of cultivars and tests the composition of their leaves. It’s a funny job for someone who has so little interest in sweet taste: “I’m a fat, oil and beer kind of person,” Warner told me. “The best dessert is a cheese plate.”
自2010年开始，在密歇根州立大学(Michigan State University)任园艺学副教授的华纳就开始领导一个科学家团队，想要开发出更优良的甜菊叶品种，研究得到了甜菊糖领先制造商谱赛科(PureCircle)的资助。这群科学家们并不是要改变甜菊糖这种化学物质，而是打算改良这种植物。他们想要找到一种新品种，能让从中提取到的化合物尝起来不那么苦涩，不留后味——一种超级甜菊叶。每年他会培育一系列变种，并试吃从叶子中提取到的化合物味道。对于一个不怎么爱吃甜食的人来说，这算是个很好笑的工作：“我爱吃的是肥肉、油脂和啤酒，”华纳对我说，“我觉得奶酪盘是天底下最好吃的甜品了。”
What I tasted in his greenhouse might be called Stevia 1.0: It’s not so far off from the crude leaf extract that has been sold in health-food stores in the United States since the early 1980s. The composition of these extracts — and thus their taste — varies with the plants from which they’re made, which may be one reason that they’ve never been cleared as a food additive by the F.D.A. (It’s possible that chewing on raw stevia is dangerous.)
我在他的温室里尝到的叶子，可以称为甜菊叶1.0版本：它跟自20世纪80年代以来在美国健康食品店出售的未加工甜菊叶提取味相去不远。这些提取物的成分——以及它们的味道——因提取的植株不同而有所差别，也许这正是FDA始终未批准其作为食品添加剂的原因之一。（嚼食甜菊糖原叶有可能带来危险。）
It’s Warner’s task to tweak the makeup of the organism, using only natural means. Every stevia plant carries a certain mix of metabolites, called steviol glycosides, that define its sweetness signature. The most abundant glycoside in wild stevia has an overly bitter taste that wouldn’t fly in foods or beverages. Enzymes in the plant convert that glycoside into several dozen others, including rebaudioside-A — the substance that DuBois recommended as a natural sweetener. But for any given plant, it’s hard to know how much of each you’ll get. “There’s still not a great understanding of why there’s so much variability,” Warner said.
华纳的任务是要通过完全自然的手段来改变这种生物体的成份。甜菊叶携带着特定的代谢分子组合，称为甜菊糖苷，正是它确定了甜菊叶的甜味特性。在野生甜叶菊中富含的糖苷苦味过于厚重，因此无法在食品或饮料中直接使用。而这种植物中的酶可将糖苷转化为几十种不同物质，当中包括了莱鲍迪苷——这也正是杜布瓦推荐作为天然甜味剂使用的物质。可是，你无法看到某棵甜菊叶，就能准确知道你能从中提取出多少莱鲍迪苷，“现在对于甜菊叶为什么有这么多变种，人们仍然知之甚少，”华纳说。
Until recently, PureCircle wanted plants that make as much Reb-A as possible. (That was Stevia 2.0.) Now PureCircle hopes that Warner and his team can start this process over and optimize the plant for a different set of glycosides with still fewer imperfections in their flavor. The project could take many years of crossing plants. In the wild, the shrub grows at the borders of grasslands and marsh. When cultivated by farmers — in Paraguay, Kenya, China and California’s Central Valley — the shrub demands enormous care: Crops are often raised from cuttings, dug into the ground by hand. The work seemed just as hard in Michigan. A few miles from the greenhouse, Warner’s team had planted rows along a highway and left them under strips of plastic for weed control. When I visited last spring, Warner’s seedlings had just gone in that morning. He told me that his team would harvest the foliage and grind it to a powder in the Red Devil — a souped-up paint-shaker on which a member of the lab had drawn a demon-horned Bart Simpson spearing a leaf of stevia with a pitchfork.
直至近期，谱赛科一直想要从甜菊叶中提取出尽可能多的莱鲍迪苷。（这是甜菊叶2.0版本。）不过现在，这家公司寄希望于华纳和他的团队能从头开始，改良这种植物，改变它的糖苷组合，好让其风味变得更加完美。这个项目先要花多年进行杂交。在野生环境里，甜叶菊这种灌木是在草地和湿地的边缘生长。而巴拉圭、肯尼亚、中国和加州中央谷地农民在种植时，这种灌木需要极为精心的照顾：得用锹挖入泥土，手工采摘作物。距离温室几英里的地方，华纳的团队沿高速公路种植了一排排的甜叶菊，并覆上了塑料细带好防止野草进犯。去年春天我来这儿参观时，华纳在当天早上刚刚播了一次种。他告诉我，他的团队将要采摘叶子，并将其研磨成粉末，使用的是一种叫红魔的机器，这是一种大马力的油漆搅拌器，他实验室里的一位成员在机器上手绘了一幅画，画的是头上长了魔鬼尖角的巴特·辛普森（Bart Simpson，动画电视剧《辛普森一家》中的虚构角色——译注）用一把干草叉猛刺甜叶菊叶片。
Warner tests the light green powders for their glycosides and then selects the ones with better profiles for another round of breeding. The details of his work are secret, but it seems as if he’s searching for a pair of chemicals — rebaudioside-D and rebaudioside-X — that tend to show up in very small amounts. If the lab can find a way to make these more abundant, the rewards would be enormous. “These next-generation stevia sweeteners hold a lot of potential for unlocking new growth within the stevia industry,” says Robert Brooke, C.E.O. of Stevia First, an agricultural and biotech firm. “Reb-A has done quite well. . . . Reb-D and Reb-X can take it to a whole new level.”
华纳要检测这些淡绿色粉末中所含的糖苷成份，随后选取表现较好的植株进行下一轮育种。他工作的细节对外保密，不过看起来他是在寻找一对化合物——莱鲍迪苷D和莱鲍迪苷X——它们的含量十分少。如果实验室能找到办法加大其含量，回报将会极高。“下一代的甜菊糖甜味剂拥有很大潜力，能让甜叶糖业界取得下一轮增长，”农业和生物科技公司Stevia First的首席执行官罗伯特·布鲁克(Robert Brooke)说：“莱鲍迪苷A的表现已经很出色了……而莱鲍迪苷D和莱鲍迪苷X将会更上一层楼。”
The beverage giants feel the same. In a patent filed last September, PepsiCo scientists put out a set of spider plots to show that Reb-D is sweeter than Reb-A, with far less bitterness and licorice. The new ingredient would allow for the creation of a “natural carbonated cola beverage product” sweetened entirely with stevia and without the need for “taste-masking agents.” Coca-Cola’s researchers followed with a similar patent at the end of May, this one with graphs to show that Reb-X tastes even better than Reb-D and would make an even more delicious can of diet cola.
饮料巨头们有着同样的想法。前年9月，在一份专利文件中，百事可乐公司的科学家们列出了一组蛛网图以证明莱鲍迪苷D比莱鲍迪苷A更甜，而且苦味和甘草味要微弱得多。这种新的配料将会催生出一种完全用甜菊糖来增甜的“天然碳酸可乐饮料产品”，而且不需要“甜味掩蔽剂”。可口可乐的研究人员紧随其后，在去年5月拿出了一份类似的专利申请，这份专利用图表显示，莱鲍迪苷X的味道比莱鲍迪苷D更好，因此能制造出更好喝的减肥可乐。
All these efforts raise a basic question, though. As Grant DuBois discovered in the 1970s, stevia can taste as good as NutraSweet, if you’re willing to apply the tools of synthetic chemistry. But even if you avoid these sorts of interventions, what about the science in between — from crossbred crops to lab-grown glycosides and fancy formulations? At what point in the process of refinement does a natural product lose its link to nature?
不过，这种种努力让人不免要提出一个最基本的问题。跟20世纪70年代格兰特·杜布瓦的发现一样：甜菊糖尝起来可以跟善品糖一样甘甜，前提是需要动用有机化学的工具。但是，就算你避免使用这一类干预手段，走在中间道路的科学——从杂交育种到实验室培育的糖苷再到精选的成分——这些又算是什么呢？到了提纯糖苷的哪个节点，一个天然的产品就开始失去了与大自然的联系？
At the kitchen lab in Minnesota, Goulson offered a taste of what might be next. Her team set out a Sprite-type drink, fizzy lemon-lime, in which the sugar had been cut by 75 percent — more than has been feasible with natural sweeteners so far. “This is outside of the space where anybody has been operating,” Goulson said. She’d used an experimental extract that might soon be on the market, and while the soda had a bitter aftertaste, its defects were subdued. Goulson wouldn’t tell me much about the mystery ingredient, only that it’s “in the world of stevia.”
在明尼苏达的厨房实验室里，古尔森让我品尝到了未来的味道。她的团队拿出了一种类似雪碧的饮料，柠檬味儿的汽水滋滋冒着气儿，饮料中的糖分已经减少了75%——比起迄今为止天然甜味剂实际能减少的糖量都更加大。“这已经走出了其他任何人能处理的范围，”古尔森说。她在饮料中添加的是一种实验中的提取物，而且可能很快就要上市。这种汽水尝起来还带些苦涩的后味，但这种缺陷已经得到了很好的抑制。古尔森并没有跟我谈起这种神秘原料的更多细节，只是称它“仍属于甜叶糖的范畴”。
Other signs suggest that Cargill is about to make the jump to next-gen natural sweeteners. On March 6, a multimillion-dollar deal with the Swiss biotech firm Evolva was announced; with Cargill they would develop a yeast-fermented version of stevia. Instead of raising stevia from cuttings of the plant, then steeping the leaves and sucking out the glycosides, Evolva makes them by using microbes to perform the needed feats of biochemistry.
其他迹象也在显示，嘉吉公司即将推出下一代的天然甜味剂。去年3月6日，这家公司宣布和瑞士生物技术公司Evolva达成了数百万美元的合作协议；两家公司将共同开发一种由酵母发酵的甜菊糖。Evolva公司可以不再从地里人工收割这种灌木，接着浸泡叶片，萃取出苷糖，而是通过使用微生物完成必需的生物化学反应，从而制造出苷糖。
When Evolva gets its system going — which should happen in the next few years — the cost of stevia-based sweeteners could plummet. Cargill wouldn’t be beholden to rain and sun and weeds, nor to the natural limits of plant biology. Fermentation would allow the company to make whichever glycoside it wanted, at whatever quantity and purity it needed.
在Evolva将这套发酵系统开发完毕后——应该可以在几年后完成——以甜菊糖为基础的甜味剂成本将会直线下降。嘉吉公司将不再受下雨、日晒和野草的摆布，甚至也不会再受制于植物生物学天然的局限。光是通过发酵，这家公司就能取得需要的苷糖，数量和纯度可以任由他们选择。
The Evolva process, like another that’s in development at Stevia First, makes use of homemade microorganisms, with foreign genes stuffed into their nuclei. That’s one way to pump out Reb-D or Reb-X, but what about the consumers who are drawn to “natural” claims — will they still go for stevia when it flows from a vat of G.M.O.’s? And will regulators object?
和Stevia First公司正在研发的产品一样，Evolva的这种工艺同样是使用了自制的微生物，而且将外来基因植入到这种微生物的胞核中。这种办法固然可以便捷地提到了莱鲍迪苷D或莱鲍迪苷X，可是，那群因为“纯天然”而被吸引过来的顾客该怎么办呢——如果这种甜菊糖是从充满转基因细菌的发酵桶里制造出来的，他们还会买吗？监管部门是否会排斥这种产品？
Later that afternoon, I put these questions to David Henstrom, Cargill’s global business director for health ingredients and the man now in charge of selling Truvia. “Country by country they have different ways that they describe what you can say is natural and what you can’t,” he told me. In the United States, food-and-beverage companies get to make the judgment for themselves. “There might be some products that aren’t trying to make that hard ‘all-natural’ claim,” he continued. “Some people are claiming naturally sourced. Some people are claiming nature-identical. It comes down to the product and what the product is trying to say and deliver to the customer.”
那天下午晚些时候，我向大卫·亨斯特罗姆(David Henstrom)提出了这些问题，他是嘉吉公司健康原料全球商务总监，现在负责甜菊糖的销售。“每个国家的人对什么产品是纯天然的，什么产品算不上，理解都不一样，”他这样回答。在美国，食品和饮料公司需要对此自行做出判断。“有些产品或许并不会拼命证明自己是‘纯天然’的，”他进一步说道：“有些人会说这种产品原材料是天然的。有些会说产品是等同天然的。得视乎产品特性和这种产品想要表达的理念，然后将信息传递给顾客。”
Natural zero-calorie sweeteners have so far been caught between two imperatives: What they want to say and what they can deliver. It used to be that natural sweeteners weren’t sweet enough; now they have an added problem: They aren’t fully natural.
天然零热量甜味剂现在正卡在这两个需求之间：它们想要表达什么，它们又想传递什么。过去的问题是天然甜味剂不够甜；现在它们又有了个新问题：它们不够天然。
“‘Natural’ would mean that I picked it from the ground,” said Donna LiVolsi, the director of operations at Cumberland Packing Corporation, which invented Sweet’N Low, the first artificial sweetener sachet, in 1957. I met her near the Navy Yards of Brooklyn, where Cumberland still makes Sweet’N Low, along with value brands of aspartame and sucralose and a couple of natural-sugar substitutes — Stevia in the Raw and Monk Fruit in the Raw. When I asked LiVolsi if she thought these latter two were “natural,” she said she couldn’t answer, because each consumer has a sense of what the word means to them.
“‘天然’指的是我是把这样东西直接从地里拔出来的，”卡伯兰包装公司(Cumberland Packing Corporation)营运总监唐娜·李沃尔西(Donna LiVolsi)说。这家公司早在1957年发明了第一种人工甜味糖包纤而尔健康糖。我跟她约在布鲁克林的造船厂附近见面，在这片工厂区，卡伯兰仍在生产纤而乐和其他几种著名合成代糖，包括阿司巴甜、蔗糖素，此外也生产几种天然代糖——甜菊原糖和罗汉果原糖(Monk Fruit in the Raw)。我问李沃尔西，她是否认为后面两者是“天然”的，她说，她无法回答这个问题，因为每个消费者对这个词的解读都不一样。
It’s a question that has bedeviled beverage-makers, too. In the fall of 2012, a German food company surveyed 4,000 people in eight European countries, to find out how they understood the “natural” claim. Almost three-quarters said they thought that natural products were more healthful and that they’d pay a premium to get them. More than half argued that natural products have a better taste. But the respondents weren’t sure what degree or form of processing would be enough to strip a product of its natural status. Some drew a line between sea salt (natural) and table salt (artificial). Others did the same for dried pasta and powdered milk, though both are made by dehydration.
这个问题也让饮料厂商们感到为难。2012年秋天，一家德国食品公司调查了8个欧洲国家的4000名居民，想要了解他们如何看待“天然”一词。其中近四分之三的人说，他们认为天然食品更健康，也愿意付出额外的一笔钱用来购买这种商品。超过一半人认为天然食品更好吃。但受访者并不确定哪种程度或形式的工艺，将使得一种产品彻底失去天然的资格。一些人在海盐（天然）和调味精盐（人工）之间划出了一条界限。另一些人认为意大利干面条和奶粉也存在同样的差别，尽管这两样食品都需要脱水处理。
My visit to the Navy Yards showed how confusing this can get. LiVolsi took me through the loading bays, where drums of ingredients arrive in giant bags from overseas, and then into a noisy room where mostly women sit in front of large machines, sweeping packets into pink boxes. A set of tubes suspended from the ceiling ferried blends of saccharin or stevia from an upper floor, and wayward dust dissolved into the atmosphere. With every breath, I could feel a sweetness tingling my tongue like tiny snowflakes.
我去造船厂生产车间的实地走访同样教人困惑不已。李沃尔西带我穿过了进料台，各种进口原材料一大包一大包地投放下来，接着我们走进一个十分嘈杂的房间，大部分女工人坐在大型机器前，将一包包小糖包扫进粉色的箱子里。天花板上悬挂着一排管子，将楼上的糖精或甜叶糖包运送下来，往下走，粉尘骤然遁逝于空气中。每次呼吸，我都能感觉到一丝丝甜像小雪片一样在我舌尖融化。
Every sweetener at Cumberland goes through the same routine, from a blending tub upstairs into a giant hopper and then down across the belts and wheels below. LiVolsi pointed to what looked like a whipping Catherine wheel, with spikes that spurted powder into paper packets, 50 blurring past in every second. It doesn’t matter if it’s made from Chinese orchard fruit or a derivative of coal, the stuff ends up in this contraption, strobing pink for saccharin, blue for aspartame, gold for sucralose, pale green for stevia. “We get the ingredient, we get the bulking agent, we blend it together, we make the batch, we test the batch, we put it in the packets and life moves on,” LiVolsi said. They’re different flavors to us, she said, “that’s how we look at it.”
在卡伯兰公司，每种甜味剂都会经过同样的工艺，先在楼上的混合罐里搅拌，接着通过一个巨型料斗，运送到楼下的传送带。李沃尔西示意我去看一个像是风火轮的玩意，它飞速地将喷溅的糖粉装进粉袋里，一秒钟就能包装50个。这些糖究竟是用中国产的果实，还是从煤炭的衍生物中提取出来，这看起来无关紧要，最后它们总归要塞进这个奇妙的机器，糖精套上了粉色的包装，阿司巴甜是蓝色，三氯蔗糖是金色，甜菊糖是浅绿色。“我们拿到原材料，我们拿到填充剂，我们把它们搅拌在一起，我们制造一批货，我们测试这批货，我们将它们装进糖包里，生活于是继续，”李沃尔西说。这些糖包的风味有所不同，她说，“这就是我们对它们的认识。”
Some consumers also wonder if the natural sweeteners aren’t simply different flavors of the products they’ve been trying to avoid. At the beginning of July, just as PepsiCo got approval for Reb-D and Coca-Cola said it would be working on Reb-X, a 58-year-old woman living in Hawaii filed suit against Big Stevia. In March she bought a box of Truvia at Walmart because she thought it was a natural product. Now she’s convinced it’s no such thing. Her complaint declared that “Reb-A is not the natural crude preparation of stevia,” and that its manufacture is not “similar to making tea,” as Cargill’s packaging suggests. Rather, it’s “a highly chemically processed and purified form of stevia-leaf extract.”
一些消费者也在担心，这种天然甜味剂或许跟他们一直想要避免的产品并无不同。去年7月初，正值百事可乐公司得到莱鲍迪苷D的许可，可口可乐则称正在为莱鲍迪苷X获批努力，一位58岁、家住夏威夷的女性对甜菊糖提起诉讼。她在3月份从沃尔玛买回了一箱甜菊糖，因为她认为这是一种天然食品，而现在她相信这并非实情。她在诉状里宣布“莱鲍迪苷A并非甜菊叶的天然未加工制剂，”而且生产工艺并不像嘉吉公司在产品包装中宣称得那样，“跟泡茶类似。”相反，这是“一种高度化工处理和提纯的甜菊叶提取物形态”。
Hers was not the only attack on Cargill’s natural sweetener. In ongoing negotiations to settle a similar suit, Cargill has offered to remove the phrase “similar to making tea” from the packaging and/or add an asterisk to the product’s tagline, “Nature’s Calorie-Free Sweetener,” directing people to a website F.A.Q. That page would explain that Truvia contains very little stevia, by weight, and that its main ingredient — erythritol — comes from yeast that may be fed with genetically modified corn sugar. “As with almost all finished food products,” the F.A.Q. would say, “the journey from field to table involves some processing.”
在针对嘉吉公司天然甜味剂的指责中，这位女士还有同伴。嘉吉公司正在对一起类似的诉讼进行调解，并主动表示将从包装中删去“跟泡茶类似”这句话，并/或在产品标语“天然零热量甜味剂”旁边加一个星号，引导人们去一个提供简明问答的网站了解更多详情。这个网站可以解释甜菊糖包按重量来说，含有的甜菊糖极其微量，而且它的主要成份——赤藓糖醇——是由酵母发酵制成，这种酵母菌可能被喂过转基因的玉米糖。“跟几乎所有食品制成品一样，”问答中这样解释：“从田间到餐桌的旅程会涉及部分加工环节。”
“Five years ago, these lawsuits were unusual,” says Rebecca Cross, an attorney with BraunHagey & Borden in San Francisco who has helped a dozen food-product companies defend themselves against charges of health-claim mischief and natural-product fraud. “Now in California, you have four or five every week. Before 2008, I don’t know if you’d get four or five every year.”
“五年前，这类诉讼极为少见，”瑞贝卡·克罗斯(Rebecca Cross)说，她是旧金山BraunHagey & Borden律师事务所的律师，曾帮助十余家食品企业应对健康声明不实和天然食品欺诈方面的指控。“而现在在加州，每星期你都会面对四五宗控诉。在2008年前，我觉得全年都不一定有四五宗。”
So far, none of the natural-product cases have gone to trial. They have either been settled out of court or dismissed by a judge. But many more are in the pipeline, and the F.D.A. has done little to clear up the regulations. The agency began to draft a formal definition of the term “natural” in the early 1990s but never finished. It fell back instead on an advisory opinion, hinting only that a natural food is one without artificial or synthetic additives. Judge William Orrick of the U.S. District Court, meanwhile, ruled in October that natural-products lawsuits can’t be put off until the feds produce a more specific rule. “The court is skeptical that the F.D.A. will develop a policy regarding the term ‘natural’ anytime soon,” he wrote, “especially since it has considered the matter for over two decades but still has not provided further guidance.”
至今，这些关于天然食品的案子没有一宗进行庭审，要么是达成庭外和解，要么由法官驳回。但还有大量案子仍在等待处理，而FDA对厘清相关规定几乎未做任何事情。这家机构在20世纪90年代初就开始对“天然”这一术语起草正规定义，但这项工作始终未能完成。最后它只提出了一个顾问小组意见，表示只有未添加人造或合成添加剂的产品方可称为天然食品。与此同时，去年10月美国地区法院的威廉·奥里克(William Orrick)法官作出裁决，宣布天然食品诉讼不应等到联邦政府制订出更明确的规定后再择期审理。他写道：“本庭对FDA是否能快速对‘天然’这一术语制订出政策表示怀疑，尤其鉴于它已经对该问题考虑了20多年，但仍未能进一步做出指引。”
In the face of this uncertainty, manufacturers have chosen to be pragmatic: They won’t say that stevia is more healthful than aspartame or sucralose just because of how it’s made. Nor will they acknowledge that one form of stevia might be more or less natural than another. “I think the important thing is that there’s a choice for everyone, and you can pick what’s right for you and what you need,” Goulson told me on our tour of tasting labs at Cargill. “What’s good for one person may not be good for another.”
考虑到这种不确定性，生产厂商们决定更加务实：他们不会说，正因为生产工艺不同，因此甜菊糖比阿司巴甜或三氯蔗糖更加健康。他们也不会承认一种形式的甜菊糖比起别的，可能会更加天然。“我认为，让每个人有选择，这一点很重要，你可以挑选对你合适的，你需要的产品，”在嘉吉公司的试味实验室，古尔森这样对我说：“对一个人有好处的东西，对别人也许并不好。”
Earlier, she showed me where her colleague Nese Yurttas feeds Truvia to employees from the Cargill campus or kids from local schools, in order to study their responses. Yurttas earned her masters at the University of Minnesota, working on cheddar-cheese aromas. Now she runs panel tests to see if average consumers like the taste of stevia. In 2011, Yurttas asked a group of children to test diet chocolate milk, with the sugar reduced by 30 percent. They gave it some mixed reviews. “Tasted so good it blowed my head off,” one kid told Yurttas. “I think it should be sweeter,” another said. On the whole, however, when asked to rate its flavor on a “nine-point hedonic scale,” the children gave the drink an average score of 7.9, the same as standard chocolate milk. They liked the taste, all right, but would their parents say it’s natural? There is no nine-point scale to measure that.
在那天早些时候，她带我去看了她同事内丝·于塔斯(Nese Yurttas)让嘉吉创新学校的雇员或当地学校的孩子试吃甜菊糖的场景，好了解他们的反应。于塔斯在明尼苏达大学取得了硕士学位，当时她的项目是研究车打芝士的风味。现在她进行着数项小组试验，试图观察普通消费者是否喜欢甜菊糖的味道。2011年，于塔斯请一组孩子试喝低热量巧克力牛奶，牛奶中的糖味减去了三成。他们的评价不一。“太好喝了，我特别特别喜欢，”一个孩子这样对于塔斯说。“我觉得还不够甜，”另一个孩子说。不过总体来说，孩子们在“九分制喜好性量表”中，为这种巧克力牛奶平均给出了7.9分，跟通常的巧克力牛奶得分无异。他们喜欢这个味道，好吧，但他们的父母是否会说这种牛奶不够天然呢？对于这个问题，没有所谓的九分制量表。