TOKYO — Satoshi Nakamoto of Fujisawa, Japan, is a shoe repairman.
东京——日本藤泽的中本聪（Satoshi Nakamoto，音译）是一名鞋匠。
Satoshi Nakamoto of Hiroshima is preparing to open a men’s clothing store. And Satoshi Nakamoto in Tokyo is a Primal Scream-loving former worker at a rental music studio, according to the studio’s Twitter feed.
广岛的中本聪正准备开一家男装店，而东京一家租赁音乐工作室贴在Twitter上的信息显示，该工作室一名喜欢原始呐喊(Primal Scream)乐队的前员工也叫中本聪。
There are at least 28 other Satoshi Nakamotos with listed phone numbers in Japan, and even more on Facebook. Like Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto, the California man profiled in a recent Newsweek article, they all deny creating Bitcoin, the virtual currency.
在日本，至少还有另外28个人用中本聪这个名字登记了自己的电话号码，Facebook上叫这个名字的人甚至更多。和《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)最近一篇文章介绍过的加利福尼亚州男子多利安·中本聪(Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto)一样，他们全都否认是自己创造出了虚拟货币比特币。
The identity of the math genius credited as the architect of Bitcoin has been a long-running curiosity among Bitcoin believers and the public at large ever since the online currency was created. But since the Newsweek article emerged, there has been a renewed interest in pinning down the “real” Satoshi Nakamoto. And although it has been widely suggested that the name may just be a pseudonym for a person or group of people, those who are named such have been getting a lot of attention.
自从这种网络货币问世以来，比特币的追随者和普罗大众一直满心好奇，想知道被誉为比特币缔造者的那名数学天才的身份。不过，自从《新闻周刊》刊载那篇文章之后，人们重新燃起了找出那个“真正的”中本聪的兴趣。尽管许多人已经指出，这个名字可能只是某个人或某一群人的化名，但那些叫这个名字的人依然得到了大量关注。
“It’s not me. I only heard of Bitcoin a few months ago, and it sounds risky,” Satoshi Nakamoto said from his “Leather Clinic” shoe-and-bag repair shop in Fujisawa, just south of Tokyo.
“不是我。我几个月前才听说比特币，这东西听起来挺悬的，”东京南郊藤泽的中本聪在自己的鞋包修理铺“皮革诊所”里说。
“I was amused to hear we had the same name, but I prefer real money to virtual money,” said Satoshi Nakamoto of Hiroshima, who recently moved to Tokyo to open “Decollo,” a clothing store for fashion-conscious “salarymen” in Tokyo.
“听说我和他同名，我觉得很好玩。不过，和虚拟的钱相比，我更喜欢实实在在的钱，”广岛的中本聪说。最近他搬到了东京，打算开一家名为“Decollo”的服装店，面向东京那些热衷时尚的“工薪男士”。
Newsweek called the name Satoshi Nakamoto “distinctive.” But if the magazine’s investigation had extended to Japan, where that name originates, it would have found that neither of those names are, in fact, distinctive.
《新闻周刊》称中本聪这个名字“与众不同”。不过，如果将调查扩大到这个名字的起源地日本，该杂志就会发现，事实上，这个姓氏和这个名字都不独特。
About 50,000 people share the Nakamoto family name in Japan, written here using at least five different combinations of characters, according to Hiroshi Morioka, an expert on the study of Japanese surnames. In its most common rendering — using the characters for “middle” and “main,” — Nakamoto is Japan’s 487th most common family name out of over 100,000 known surnames here, he said.
研究日本姓氏的专家盛冈弘(Hiroshi Morioka)称，日本大约有5万个姓中本的人，而且在这里，这个姓氏至少有五种写法。他说，就它最常见的写法——用的是表示“中间”和“主要”的两个字——而言，中本在已知超过10万个的日本姓氏中排名第487位。
“In general, he said, any name in the top 500 is considered a major name,” Mr. Morioka said in an email. By comparison, the 487th most common last name in the United States is Bryan, he said.
“总的来说，排在前500名的姓都算是大姓，”盛冈弘在一封电子邮件中说。他说，美国排名第487位的姓是布莱恩(Bryan)，可以作为参照。
Satoshi, meanwhile, was among Japan’s top most common given names for boys in the 1960s and 1970s, though the moniker’s popularity has fallen in recent years, according to an annual survey of given names by Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance.
同时，虽然近年来聪字受欢迎的程度已经降低，但是在20世纪60和70年代，它曾是日本男孩最常使用的名字之一。这个结论源于明治安田生命保险公司(Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance)对名字的年度调查。