Grandmothers, an old saying goes, are angels in training. If so, one contingent that has had a great deal of practice can be found in Argentina.
老话说，祖母是接受历练的天使。如果此话当真，那么阿根廷有一群天使接受了千锤百炼。
The chief pursuit of these women is more temporal than celestial. With focused anger, they have spent more than three decades seeking to unravel and, when possible, correct one of the more shocking human rights outrages of modern times.
这些女性追求之事人性多于神性。在满腔怒火的驱使下，她们花了30多年时间来揭露人类现代史上最令人震惊的人权暴行之一，并尽可能地予以矫正。
This installment of Retro Report, a series of video documentaries chronicling major news stories of the past and their abiding consequences, delves into the theft of babies by the military junta that ruthlessly ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1983. Those were the years of the dirty war, as it was called. Thousands upon thousands of Argentines — at least 10,000 and possibly as many as 30,000, according to some human rights groups — became los desaparecidos, the disappeared. “Desaparecido” was a word that politically attuned people around the world came to recognize instantly, even if they spoke almost no Spanish.
本报的“历史回眸”栏目(Retro Report)以视频纪录的形式重新审视过去的重大新闻事件及其持久影响，本期将探讨1976年到1983年间残酷统治阿根廷的军政府攫取婴儿的往事。那是“肮脏战争”发生的年代。阿根廷有上万人——根据一些人权团体的估算，少则一万，多则三万——成为“los desaparecidos”，即“失踪者”。“Desaparecidos”成为全世界熟知政治事务的人马上能认出的字眼，就算他们几乎不懂西班牙语。
Men and women whom the junta deemed leftist subversives were abducted by death squads, most never to be seen again. They were routinely tortured in secret detention centers and then murdered, their bodies cremated or buried in mass graves or dropped from airplanes into the Atlantic Ocean. The junta described its victims as terrorists, but its definition was, to put it mildly, expansive. “One becomes a terrorist not only by killing with a weapon or setting a bomb, but also by encouraging others through ideas that go against our Western and Christian civilization,” the junta’s leader, Jorge Rafael Videla, said in 1977. He died two years ago in a Buenos Aires prison, where he had been serving a life sentence for crimes against humanity.
被军政府认定为左翼颠覆分子的男男女女遭到敢死队的绑架，多数人再也未能现身于人世。他们往往在秘密的关押地受到刑讯逼供，然后遇害，尸体遭焚毁、埋于乱葬岗或被飞机扔到大西洋里。军政府把这些遇难者称为“恐怖分子”，但它的定义，就算委婉地说，也过于宽泛。“一个人成为恐怖分子，不光是拿起武器杀人或引爆炸弹，还有通过思想鼓动他人对抗我们的西方基督教文明，”军政府领导人豪尔赫·拉斐尔·魏地拉(Jorge Rafael Videla)在1977年表示。两年前，他在布宜诺斯艾利斯的监狱中过世，死前因反人类罪在服无期徒刑。
The junta’s brutality had a twist: Some of the kidnapped women were pregnant. A few had small children. The pregnant captives were kept alive only long enough to give birth. Then, as described in a 2004 article in the Harvard Women’s Law Journal, the junta embarked on “an unprecedented and systematic plan to steal and sell the babies of its victims.” The mothers were killed. Many fathers were, too. And the babies — about 500 of them, in a widely accepted estimate — were handed or sold to military families and to others considered “politically acceptable.” Birth certificates were falsified. The infants’ true identities were effectively erased. In some instances, they went to the very people who had killed their parents.
军政府的暴行还有一个出乎预料的地方：一些女性遭到绑架时已怀孕，还有少数人带着年幼的孩子。这些被关押的孕妇只能活到生育之时。根据《哈佛女性法律期刊》(Harvard Women’s Law Journal)在2004年发表的一篇文章，军政府随后执行了“史无前例的系统性计划，攫取和出售受害人的孩子”。孩子的母亲遇难，许多父亲也未能幸免。根据广泛认同的估算，有大约500名婴幼儿被送给或卖给了军人等“政治过关”的家庭。孩子的出生证明是伪造的，真实身份实际上被抹去了。在某些情况下，他们去到的家庭恰恰就由杀害他们亲生父母的人组成。
As this nightmare unfolded, two Argentine rights groups came into being in 1977: Las Madres de Plaza de Mayo and Las Abuelas de Plaza de Mayo, the mothers and the grandmothers of a central square in Buenos Aires. Every Thursday, they marched in silent protest around the plaza. The mothers sought to learn the fates of their dead children, the grandmothers the whereabouts of their stolen grandchildren, known as los desaparecidos con vida, the living disappeared.
随着这场噩梦的展开，阿根廷在1977年形成了两个维权团体：“Las Madres de Plaza de Mayo”和“Las Abuelas de Plaza de Mayo”，分别意为“五月广场的母亲”和“五月广场的祖母”。五月广场位于布宜诺斯艾利斯市中心，每到周四，她们会去那里游行，进行无声的抗议。母亲们想要知道死去子女的遭遇，祖母们想要知道被偷走的孙辈的下落。后者被称作“los desaparecidos con vida”，意为“在世的失踪者”。
Not everyone was even aware at first that a grandchild existed. One such abuela was Estela Barnes de Carlotto, a school principal. She knew that the eldest of her four children, Laura, had disappeared toward the end of 1977. Only later did she learn that her politically active daughter had been pregnant. Laura was murdered after giving birth to a boy in June 1978. Still later, Ms. de Carlotto found out that the baby’s father was another activist, Walmir Montoya. He, too, was killed, and his remains were not identified until 2009.
刚开始的时候，并非每个人都知道自己有了孙子孙女。当校长的埃斯特拉·巴尔内斯·德卡洛托(Estela Barnes de Carlotto)就是这样一位外祖母。她知道自己四个孩子中的长女劳拉(Laura)在1977年底失踪了，但后来她才得知自己这个身为政治活动人士的女儿当时怀孕了。1978年6月生下一个男婴后，劳拉遇害。再过了一段时间，德卡洛托才得知孩子的父亲是同为活动人士的瓦尔米尔·蒙托亚(Walmir Montoya)。他也惨遭杀害，遗骸在2009年才找到。
Ms. de Carlotto, who turns 85 on Oct. 22, joined Las Abuelas in 1979 and became its president 10 years later. Her story is central to the Retro Report video. Identifying and finding missing grandchildren turned into her life’s mission, with every success representing one more blow against the murderous junta. “Each case,” she has said in interviews, “is a triumph of truth over lies, horrors and deceit.”
德卡洛托将于10月22日年满85岁。她在1979年加入了“五月广场的祖母”，并于10年后成为会长。她是本期“历史回眸”视频的主角。确认并找到那些失踪的孙辈成为了她的人生使命，每成功一次，就是对杀人不眨眼的军政府的一次打击。她接受采访时表示，“每起案件，都是真相对谎言、恐怖和欺骗的胜利。”
Yet as stolen babies were tracked down one by one, 113 of them by May 2014, the search for her own grandchild proved futile. Then, suddenly, in the summer of 2014, there was a turnaround. Genetic testing proved conclusively that a musician, Ignacio Hurban, was Laura’s child. Given Ms. de Carlotto’s national prominence, the discovery was a triumph that resonated emotionally across Argentina.
被攫取婴儿的去向被逐一确定，截止2014年5月共计找到113人，但是，她自己的外孙仍下落不明。而后在2014年的夏天，事情突然出现转机。基因检测证实音乐家伊格纳西奥·胡尔班(Ignacio Hurban)是劳拉的孩子。鉴于德卡洛托有很高的知名度，这个发现成为一场令阿根廷举国动容的胜利。
Mr. Hurban had long wondered if he was truly the biological son of the couple who reared him from infancy, farmers who had received him in 1978 from a powerful landowner with ties to the junta. He did not seem like them at all, either in appearance or in cultural interests. A year ago, on his 36th birthday, he learned that he had in fact been adopted. Wondering if he might be one of the living disappeared, he had a blood test. After the results confirmed his parentage, making him the 114th grandchild to be identified, he changed his name to Ignacio Montoya Carlotto. Since then, three more such identifications have been made, bringing the total to 117.
多年来，胡尔班一直在怀疑自己并非父母亲生，1978年，这对农民夫妇从一个与军政府有关系的大地主那里得到这个孤儿，将他抚养成人。无论是长相还是文化趣味，他和他们毫无相似之处。一年前的36岁生日那天，他得知自己的确是领养的。他怀疑自己会不会就是一个“在世的失踪者”，因此去做了血检。检测结果证实了他的父母身份，使他成为第114名被找到的孙辈，他将姓名改为伊格纳西奥·蒙托亚·卡洛托(Ignacio Montoya Carlotto)。此后又找到了三人，总数达到117人。
Forensic genetics, the key to discovering many of the lost grandchildren, has proved an indispensable human rights tool. Advances in DNA analysis make it possible to match a person with his or her biological grandparent; that has been happening in Argentina since 1984. In 1987, the National Bank of Genetic Data was created there, the first of its kind in the world, and it now stores several hundred family profiles. Roughly 10,000 young adults (babies snatched during the dirty war are typically now in their mid- to late 30s) have had themselves tested for possible matches. In that manner, dozens of them have found their biological grandparents.
作为找回许多失踪孙辈的关键手段，法医基因物证已经成为一种不可或缺的人权工具。DNA分析技术的进步使一个人和其生祖父母的基因匹配成为可能；阿根廷从1984年开始一直在这么做。该国的国家基因数据库(National Bank of Genetic Data)于1987年成立，是世界上首家这样的数据库，如今已经存储了数百份家族资料。大约1万名年轻成人（肮脏战争期间被攫取的婴儿目前普遍在35到40岁左右）接受了检验，以期找到匹配。其中有数十人找到了自己的生祖父母。
In part because of the Argentine experience, international accords now recognize certain fundamental human rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child, approved by the United Nations General Assembly in 1989, asserts that nations must “respect the right of the child to preserve his or her identity,” a requirement that extends to one’s name and family relationships. In 2006, the General Assembly affirmed that a “forced disappearance” that is part of a systematic attack on a civilian population qualifies as a crime against humanity.
阿根廷的经历一定程度上促成了对一些特定基本人权的国际共识。联合国大会在1989年通过了《儿童权利公约》(Convention on the Rights of the Child)，主张国家必须“尊重儿童保留其身份的权利”，这一要求包括了一个人的姓名和家族关系。2006年，联合国大会明确了对平民发起的蓄意攻击中进行的“强迫失踪”属于反人类罪行。
The identification of abducted Argentine babies has not been without pain. Some children, on discovering their true identities, have resisted leaving the only parents they know. Also, some adoptive parents have been criminally charged, with the couple who reared Mr. Montoya Carlotto now also facing that risk. His newly found grandmother, focusing on such couples in general, told Retro Report, “Without exception, they have to be brought to justice.”
阿根廷的被攫取婴儿身份识别过程并非皆大欢喜。一些孩子在得知自己的真实身份后拒绝离开自己唯一认识的父母。一些养父母遭到刑事指控，抚养了蒙托亚·卡洛托的夫妇就面临着这种可能性。他那位与他重逢不久的祖母对这类夫妇格外关注，她对“历史回眸”栏目说，“这些人无一例外都该被绳之以法。”
Then again, some grandchildren are comforted to learn that they were not abandoned by their biological parents, as they long believed. “Initially, most victims experienced psychological shock when their true identity was revealed,” Dr. Victor B. Penchaszadeh, a once-exiled Argentine geneticist who returned home several years ago, wrote this year in The Journal of Community Genetics. But in time, Dr. Penchaszadeh said, “knowledge of the truth, painful as it was, was emotionally liberating from the perversity, lies, concealment and violence that in many cases had surrounded their rearing.”
但也有一些孙辈在得知自己并非被亲生父母抛弃后感到宽慰，他们原本一直以为自己是被遗弃的。“一开始，多数受害人在得知自己的真实身份后都会经受心理冲击，”维克多·B·本查斯扎德(Victor B. Penchaszadeh)博士今年在《社区基因学期刊》(Journal of Community Genetics)上撰文说，这位曾经流亡海外的阿根廷基因学家是几年前回到祖国的。但本查斯扎德同时也提到，“了解真相的过程尽管痛苦，却也让很多人在情感上摆脱了成长过程中常见的乖僻、谎言、遮掩和暴力。”