WALBRZYCH, Poland — Experts from the Krakow University of Science and Technology said on Tuesday that, contrary to 70 years of local folklore, there is no trace of any armored Nazi train filled with looted treasureburied near Walbrzych in southwestern Poland.
波兰瓦乌布日赫——周二，克拉科夫科技大学(Krakow University of Science and Technology)的专家们表示，当地流传70年的民间传说并不真实，位于波兰西南部的瓦乌布日赫附近并没有装满掠夺来的宝藏的纳粹装甲列车。
“There may be a tunnel,” said Janusz Madej, the head of the scientific team, “but there is no train.”
“那里可能有一条隧道，”该科研组组长雅努什·马德伊(Janusz Madej)说，“但没有火车。”
The findings did not persuade the two amateur explorers who have been claiming since August to have located the fabled train. They insisted on Tuesday that it was still there and that they would keep pressing to dig it out.
这一研究结果没有让两位业余探索者信服。自今年8月份以来，他们一直声称自己找到了传说中的火车的所在地。他们在周二坚称，火车就在那里，并表示会继续督促政府把它挖出来。
The Krakow University team of geologists and engineers surveyed the site in November using magnetic and gravitation methods, Mr. Madej said at a news conference. The examination revealed some anomalies in the ground, he said, but they are no more than about eight feet below the surface, while the train was supposed to be 30 feet underground.
马德伊在新闻发布会上表示，由多名地质学者和工程师组成的克拉科夫大学研究团队，在11月使用磁力和重力检测设备对那个地点进行了勘察。他表示，这次调查显示地下有一些异常物质，但它们位于地下不超过8英尺（约合2.4米）的地方，而火车应该是在地下30英尺处。
“The anomalies could be remnants of a collapsed tunnel,” he said.
“那些异常物质可能是坍塌隧道的残留物，”他说。
The two amateur explorers — Piotr Koper, a Polish construction-company owner, and Andreas Richter, a German geologist — in August said they had “irrefutable proof” of the existence and location of the train, which was thought to be filled with gold, gems and weapons and sealed up in a tunnel in the closing days of World War II. Their announcement put the 120,000 inhabitants of the usually quiet city of Walbrzych at the center of a global frenzy.
今年8月，两位业余探索者——波兰建筑公司老板彼得·科佩尔(Piotr Koper)和德国地质学者安德烈亚斯·里希特(Andreas Richter)——表示，他们找到了火车所在的地方，有“无可辩驳的证据”证明其存在。传说中，这列火车装满了黄金、宝石和武器，在二战即将结束的时候，它被封存在一个隧道里。这一消息让往常极为平静的瓦乌布日赫市的12万居民一下子置身于一场全球狂热行动的中心。
On Tuesday, the explorers seemed less confident, though still adamant that the train must be there. Speaking at the same news conference, the explorers said their own experts had recently checked the site with ground-penetrating, thermal and magnetic sensors. Based on that data, the two men said there were clear signs of a railway tunnel, with tracks and sleepers.
周二的时候，这两名探索者看起来不像以前那么自信，但他们依然坚称火车肯定就在那里。在同一场发布会上，二人表示，他们自己的专家最近使用热磁地下探测传感器对那个地点进行了检测。基于那些数据，二人表示，有明确迹象显示那里存在火车隧道、轨道和枕木。
Mr. Koper presented images of round, oval and rectangular shapes in the ground that he said must be the armored train. “We carried out similar examinations in many other locations, but we have never encountered anything like this,” he said. “There is no way these shapes are of natural origin.”
科佩尔展示了几张地下的圆形、椭圆形和矩形物体的图像，表示这些东西肯定就是装甲列车。“我们在很多其他地方也进行过类似的检测，从没遇到过这样的情况，”他说。“这些东西不可能是自然生长出来的。”
He showed images of very similar shapes during an interview in September, saying they were probably military equipment on the train, including small armored vehicles with short gun barrels.
今年9月份接受采访时，他也展示过类似形状的照片，并表示它们很可能是火车上的军用设备，比如有短炮筒的小型装甲车。
Mr. Koper said on Tuesday that he and Mr. Richter, though just “hobbyist treasure hunters,” stood by everything they said and insisted, “There can’t be a mistake.”
科佩尔周二表示，他和里希特虽然只是“寻宝爱好者”，但他们坚持自己此前所讲的一切，坚称“不可能是搞错了”。
Mr. Madej responded, “It’s human to make a mistake, but it’s foolish to stand by it.”
马德伊回应说，“是人都会犯错，但坚决不认错是愚蠢的。”
Historians believe that Lower Silesia, which was part of Germany before 1945, may still hide many secrets from the war period. Many artworks and other valuables plundered from Eastern Europe were stashed in Silesian castles and mansions during the conflict and were not recovered or accounted for afterward.
历史学家们认为，1945年以前属于德国的波兰下西里西亚地区，可能还隐藏着众多二战时期的秘密。从东欧掠夺的很多艺术品和其他有价值的物品在战争时期被藏在西里西亚的城堡和庄园里，之后要么没有被取回，要么变得下落不明。
Though the Polish authorities and amateur explorers alike had for decades searched for the legendary Nazi gold train in vain, hopes of finding it were reignited by the announcement in August. Poland’s deputy culture minister, Piotr Zuchowski, said then that he was “99 percent convinced” that the train had finally been found. Those hopes may have been dashed again by the Krakow scientists’ report.
过去几十年，波兰当局和业余探索者均在寻找传说中的纳粹黄金列车，始终未果，但是今年8月，两名探索者宣布新发现之后，这种希望被再次点燃。波兰文化部副部长彼得·祖霍夫斯基(Piotr Zuchowski)当时表示，他“99%确信”那辆火车终于被找到了。如今克拉科夫科技大学的科学家们的报告可能又使这些希望再度破灭。
The local authorities in Walbrzych now have to decide whether to go ahead with the planned next step in the hunt — an expensive and complicated operation of digging and drilling to introduce cameras into the ground and see what is there.
瓦乌布日赫当局现在必须决定是否继续进行之前计划好的寻找火车的下一步骤，即花销昂贵的复杂的挖掘和钻孔行动。这一步骤的目的是在地下放入摄像头，以确定下面到底有什么东西。
“We need to think about we should do now,” said Arkadiusz Grudzien, a spokesman for the city president.
“我们需要考虑一下现在该怎么办，”市政发言人阿尔卡迪乌什·格鲁津(Arkadiusz Grudzien)说。