HONG KONG — When the 42-year-old Filipino woman opened the door of her tiny Hong Kong apartment three years ago, two lawyers stood outside with a man she had never seen before. They explained that he needed a place to hide, and they introduced him as Edward Snowden.
香港——三年前，当42岁的菲律宾女子打开她狭小的香港公寓的房门时，门外站着两名律师与一名她以前从未见过的男子。律师解释说，那名男子需要一个地方躲一躲，他们说他叫爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)。
“The first time I see him, I don’t know who he is,” the woman, Vanessa Mae Bondalian Rodel, recalled in an interview. “I don’t have any idea.”
 “我第一次见到他，我不知道他是谁，”这位名叫瓦内萨·梅·邦达丽安·罗德尔(Vanessa Mae Bondalian Rodel)的女子在接受采访时回忆说。“我一点也不知道。”
Ms. Rodel is one of at least four residents of Hong Kong who took in Mr. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, when he fled the United States in June 2013. Only now have they decided to speak about the experience, revealing a new chapter in the odyssey that riveted the world after Mr. Snowden disclosed that the N.S.A. had been monitoring the calls, emails and web activity of millions of Americans and others.
当国家安全局前合同雇员斯诺登于2013年6月出逃美国后，罗德尔是至少四名隐藏过他的香港居民之一。他们到现在才决定公开谈论那段经历，揭示了斯诺登漫长而充满风险的历程的一个新篇章，出逃前，他泄露了美国国家安全局一直在监听监视数百万美国人和其他人的电话、电子邮件和网上活动的秘密。
At the time, governments and news outlets were scrambling to find the source of the leaks, which were published in The Guardian and The Washington Post. In an interview recorded in a hotel room, Mr. Snowden identified himself and revealed he was in Hong Kong. Then he went into hiding. About two weeks later he turned up in Moscow.
当时，政府和新闻媒体在争相寻找这一秘密消息的来源，消息最早发表在《卫报》和《华盛顿邮报》上。在一个酒店房间里录制的采访中，斯诺登自报了姓名，并透露他在香港。然后，他消身匿迹了。大约两周后，他出现在莫斯科。
It was never clear where Mr. Snowden was holed up during those critical days after leaving his room at the five-star Mira Hotel, when the United States was demanding his return. As it turns out, he was staying with Ms. Rodel and others like her — men and women seeking political asylum in Hong Kong who live in cramped, substandard apartment blocks in some of the city’s poorest districts.
此前一直不清楚，在离开了五星级的米拉酒店房间后的关键日子里，斯诺登曾经藏在哪里，当时，美国要求将他返送回国。现在人们知道，他住到了罗德尔及其他像她那样的人的家里，这些在香港寻求政治庇护的男男和女女住在位于香港最贫穷地区的拥挤且非常差劲的公寓楼中。
They were all clients of one of Mr. Snowden’s Hong Kong lawyers, Robert Tibbo, who arranged for him to stay with them.
他们都是斯诺登的香港律师之一、罗伯特·提博(Robert Tibbo)的当事人，提博安排斯诺登住到了他们的家里。
Ms. Rodel said Mr. Snowden slept in her bedroom while she and her 1-year-old daughter moved into their apartment’s only other room. Not knowing what he would eat, she bought him an Egg McMuffin and an iced tea from McDonald’s.
罗德尔说，斯诺登曾住在她的卧室，而她和一岁的女儿搬进了公寓仅有的另一个房间。不知道他会吃什么，她从麦当劳给他买了烟肉蛋麦满分和冰茶。
“My first impression of his face was that he was scared, very worried,” she recalled.
“我对他的面孔的第一印象是，他很害怕、很担心，”她回忆说。
Ms. Rodel said her unexpected guest “was using his computer all day, all night.” She said that she did not have internet service but that Mr. Tibbo provided him with mobile access.
罗德尔说，她的这位不速之客“整天整夜都在用他的电脑。”她说，她家没有互联网服务，但提博为斯诺登提供了移动上网方式。
On Mr. Snowden’s second day there, he asked Ms. Rodel whether she could buy him a copy of The South China Morning Post, the city’s main English-language newspaper, she said. When she picked up the paper, she saw his picture on the front page.
罗德尔说，斯诺登住进来的第二天，他问她，是否可以给他买份《南华早报》，这是香港的主要英文报纸。她买了报纸后，看到了登在头版上的斯诺登照片。
“Oh my God, unbelievable,” she recalled saying to herself. “The most wanted man in the world is in my house.”
“哎哟，我的老天，这真难以相信，”她回忆当时她自语道。“世界上的头号通缉犯就住在我家里。”
Jonathan Man, another of Mr. Snowden’s lawyers in Hong Kong, said that he had initially considered hiding him in a warehouse but that he and Mr. Tibbo quickly dismissed the idea. Instead, after taking him to the United Nations office that handles refugee claims in Hong Kong and filing an application, they brought him to the apartment of a client seeking asylum.
斯诺登的另外一名香港律师乔纳森·曼(Jonathan Man)说，他最初曾考虑过让斯诺登在一个库房藏身，但他和提博很快打消了这个念头。而是在带着斯诺登去了联合国在香港处理难民申请的办事处、提交了申请之后，他们把他送到了一名寻求庇护的当事人的公寓。
“It was clear that if Mr. Snowden was placed with a refugee family, this was the last place the government and the majority of Hong Kong society would expect him to be,” Mr. Tibbo said. “Nobody would look for him there. Even if they caught a glimpse of him, it was highly unlikely that they would recognize him.”
“很明显，如果斯诺登住在一个难民的家里，那是政府和大多数香港社会最想不到的地方，”提博说。“那里没有人会找他。即使那里的人偶然看到了他，他们会把他认出来的可能性极小。”
There are about 11,000 registered asylum seekers living in Hong Kong, mostly from South and Southeast Asia. They generally cannot work legally and receive monthly stipends that rarely cover living costs.
有大约1.1万注册的寻求庇护者在香港居住，大多数来自南亚和东南亚。他们一般不能合法工作，每月领取的津贴不足以支付日常生活费用。
Mr. Tibbo said he turned to these clients for help in part because he expected them to understand Mr. Snowden’s plight. “These were people who went through the same process when they were fleeing other countries,” he said. “They had to rely on other people for refuge, safety, comfort and support.”
提博说，他从这些当事人那里寻求帮助，部分原因是，他预计他们理解斯诺登的困境。“这些人逃离其他国家时，经历了同样的过程，”他说。“他们为了避难、安全、安慰和支持，不得不依靠他人。”
He noted that Mr. Snowden was not wanted by the Hong Kong police at the time and that he had advised his clients to cooperate with the police if they showed up. He said his clients had decided come forward in the hope that the publicity would put pressure on the Hong Kong authorities to expedite their applications for refugee status and resettlement.
他指出，斯诺登当时并没有被香港警方通缉，他给这些当事人的建议是，如果警方找上门来，要与警方合作。他说，他的当事人决定出面帮助，因为他们希望媒体的关注会对香港当局有压力，让当局加快处理他们的难民身份与定居申请。
Ms. Rodel, who declined to say why she could not return to the Philippines, has been waiting nearly six years for a final decision on her application.
罗德尔拒绝透露她为什么不能返回菲律宾，她说，她等待对自己的申请做出最终决定已将近六年了。
After a few days with Ms. Rodel and her daughter, Mr. Snowden spent a night with Ajith Pushpakumara, 44, who said he fled to Hong Kong after being chained to a wall and tortured for deserting the army in his native Sri Lanka.
在罗德尔和她的女儿那里住了几天后，斯诺登在44岁的阿吉特·普什帕库马拉(Ajith Pushpakumara)家里过了一夜，普什帕库马拉说，他在自己的国家斯里兰卡因当逃兵被人用铁链锁在墙上折磨，后来，他逃到了香港。
Mr. Pushpakumara said he had listened to online radio broadcasts about Mr. Snowden and was surprised to suddenly find him in the dingy apartment that he shared with several men. He realized Mr. Snowden was in the same situation he was, hiding in a small room. “I was worried about him,” he said.
普什帕库马拉说，他在在线广播中听到了斯诺登的事情，斯诺登突然出现在他与几名男子同住的昏暗公寓，令他大惊不已。他明白斯诺登的情况与自己的相同，都要躲在一个小房间里。“我很为他担心，”他说。
Supun Thilina Kellapatha, his wife and their toddler also sheltered Mr. Snowden, putting him up for about three days in their 250-square-foot apartment.
苏潘·提里那·凯尔拉帕塔(Supun Thilina Kellapatha)和妻子、以及他们刚学会走路的孩子也庇护了斯诺登，让他在他们25平米的公寓里住了三天左右。
Mr. Kellapatha, 32, who said he sought protection in Hong Kong after being tortured in Sri Lanka, described their guest as a tired man who was unfailingly polite.
32岁的凯尔拉帕塔说，他在斯里兰卡遭受酷刑后，来到香港寻求庇护，他把他们的客人描述为一位疲惫的人，但始终很有礼貌。
“He said, ‘You are a good man,’ ” when he arrived at the apartment, Mr. Kellapatha recalled. “But I feel he is better than me, because he respected me.”
“他说，‘你是个好人，’”凯尔拉帕塔回忆起斯诺登来到公寓时说。“但我觉得，他比我好，因为他尊重我。”
Mr. Kellapatha and his wife, Nadeeka Dilrukshi Nonis, said they were not worried about hosting Mr. Snowden. “I don’t think I take the risk,” he said. “He is the one who take the big risk.”
凯尔拉帕塔和妻子娜蒂卡·蒂尔卢卡什·诺尼斯(Nadeeka Dilrukshi Nonis)表示，他们没有为留住斯诺登担心。“我觉得我没有冒险，”他说。“他才是冒了很大风险的人。”
When Mr. Snowden left, he left the couple $200 under a pillow, which they said they used to buy necessities for their daughter. “Sometimes I tell Supun, maybe he forgot us,” Ms. Nonis said. “I want to tell him, ‘Edward, how are you? We will never forget you.’ ”
斯诺登离开时，在一个枕头下留给这对夫妻200美元，他们说，他们用这笔钱为女儿买了生活必需品。“有时，我对苏潘说，也许他不记得我们了，”诺尼斯说。“我想对他说，‘爱德华，你怎么样了？我们永远不会忘记你。’”