Amid an ocean of style disasters, one man explores the sartorial and psychological conundrums of the swim trunk.
在时尚灾难的汪洋大海中，一个男人探索泳裤在穿着和心理上种种难解的谜题。
Not long ago I was visiting my mother in Scotland. She lives not far from the sea and from the swimming pool where I spent my youth. I wanted to return to Auchenharvie Pool so I got up early on the last day of my visit and drove there. The pool was empty. Stripped down and standing at the edge, I remembered a line from Chandler’s “The Long Goodbye“: “Nothing ever looks emptier than an empty swimming pool.” I also clearly remembered — as clear as the blue and silver water — my preadolescent self shivering at the water’s edge. I could see him, and before diving in, I recalled the echo of children’s voices and the taste of chlorine. I will never forget the terrible swimming trunks we wore, the nylon abominations in a paisley pattern that still summon for me the stylistic cruelty of the 1970s. In childhood, and ever after, swimming is a lesson in the complications of modesty and a trial in the rigors of self-esteem. The costume was everything: the last frontier between a blushing boy and his sudden nakedness. And what we wanted was to dive through the unknown depths with a skin made of perfect confidence.
不久前，我去英格兰看望妈妈。她住的地方离海和我年少时的泳池都不远。我想再去看看阿切哈维泳池，所以在那里的最后一天，我早早地起床开车过去。结果，泳池里空荡荡的，没有人。我脱光了衣服，站在泳池边，想起了钱德勒(Chandler)在《漫长的告别》(The Long Goodbye)中的一句话：“什么都没有空荡荡的泳池更让人觉得空荡荡。”我还清楚地记得——像这里波光粼粼的蓝色的水一样清晰——青春期前的我站在水边瑟瑟发抖。我能看见他，我还记得跳进去之前我听见了孩子们声音的回响，闻见了漂白粉的味道。我永远都不会忘记我们穿的那可怕的泳裤，那尼龙做的涡纹图案的破烂玩意，到现在还能让我想起20世纪70年代的时尚所带来的残忍。在童年时期，甚至在以后的日子里，游泳是羞怯并发症以及自尊心经受严格考验的一课。泳裤是唯一剩下的东西，是脸红的男孩和突然的赤裸之间最后的界线。我们想要的是用完美的自信制作的泳裤、带着满满的信心跳进未知的深度。
Johnny Weissmuller has a lot to answer for. I believed in Tarzan much more than I believed in God and felt he was the greater deity. Not too tight, not too loose, his swimwear always appeared to enhance his excellent claim to savage nobility. Winner of five Olympic gold medals and dozens of American championships, Weissmuller, in the eyes of skinny boys, was a key example when it came to being ambitious about having a body that didn’t engulf one in shame. His loincloth didn’t exactly compare to the swimming trunks we agonized over, but it had the great virtue of never looking like a sodden diaper, a pair of girl’s knickers, a fluorescent bandage or a tiny, dimpled curtain. His famous jungle-cry seemed to me an exclamation of relief at his sartorial good fortune. And finally, aged 45, I shared some of that same joy as I moved like a silent torpedo through the old pool, wearing a pair of orange beauties from Orlebar Brown. Normally, in Scotland, you wait about 14 years for a pair of swimming shorts to dry, but these began to dry as soon as I emerged, Titan-like, from the waves, and stood there smiling, hands on hips, at last encased in the perfect swimming shorts and looking up at a spectators’ gallery full of forgotten faces.
约翰尼·韦斯穆勒(Johnny Weissmuller)要对此负很大责任。我对壮汉的信任远远超过对上帝的信任，感觉他才是更伟大的神灵。他的泳衣既不太紧，也不太松，似乎总能提升他野性高贵的美好形象。韦斯穆勒曾获得五枚奥运会金牌，得过几十次美国冠军。在瘦小男孩的眼中，在梦想拥有一个不让他们感到羞愧的身材方面，他是一个重要的榜样。他的遮羞布并不完全能与让我们苦恼的泳裤相比较，但它的优点在于永远不会看起来像湿透了的尿布、女用扎口短裤、荧光绷带或者带凹纹的小窗帘。在我看来，他著名的吼叫是为自己遇到好裁缝而发出的欣喜的呼喊。我终于在45岁的时候，获得了一点同样的欣喜——我穿着奥莱巴·布朗(Orlebar Brown)牌橙色泳裤像安静的鱼雷一样在旧泳池里穿梭。通常，在苏格兰，你大概要等14年一条泳裤才会干，但是这条泳裤我一出水就快干了。我终于穿上了完美的泳裤，像巨人一样从水里钻出来，站在那里微笑，手叉在腰上，仿佛看到了看台上那些久违的面孔。
What we wear is often a shorthand for who we are. Swimming has a strange relationship with childhood and memory, as writers have always known. We have a reverence for the idea of freedom and freshness, such as the Greeks captured in their ancient depictions of skinny-dipping youth, and we see it as much in Mark Twain as we do in D. H. Lawrence, the notion of swimming as a form of travel into your purer self. But what to wear for the journey? How can a man cover himself without compromising his freedom? In the late 19th century, the typical male beachgoer’s outfit consisted of a one-piece romper suit, often striped, which went fetchingly with a straw hat and a silver-topped cane. (Queen Victoria has even more to answer for than Johnny Weissmuller.) And if you look at photographs of Coney Island in the 1920s, you see that men had finally found a way to show their arms but not yet their navels.
我们的着装通常能反映我们的身份。就像作家们一直以来都知道的那样，游泳与童年和记忆之间有种奇怪的关系。我们崇拜自由和新鲜事物，比如古希腊人在画中描绘裸泳的年轻人，马克·吐温(Mark Twain)和D·H·劳伦斯(D. H. Lawrence)都在书中提到，游泳是一种进入更纯净自我的旅行。但是在这场旅行中我们穿什么呢？一个男人怎样才能既遮住自己又不必牺牲自由呢？19世纪末典型的男子海滩套装是一件连衣裤，通常是有条纹的，与草帽和银顶手杖搭配起来“楚楚动人”（维多利亚女王要负的责任比约翰尼·韦斯穆勒更大）。你看看20世纪20年代科尼岛的照片，就会发现男人终于可以露出自己的胳膊了，但是还不能露肚脐。
When Lord Byron made his famous swim across the Hellespont — from the Black Sea to the Aegean, in imitation of the mythic Leander swimming to his lover, Hero — he was wearing trousers. “My dripping limbs I faintly stretch,” he wrote of his heroic swim, “And think I’ve done a feat to-day.” But the rest of us, romantic or not, want the swimwear to enhance the swim, not to balloon around us or strangle the vital parts. (The least cool thing you could wear, even if you’ve lived a life full of male mistakes in the fashion arena, is a pair of Speedo trunks, or “budgie-smugglers,” which leave nothing to dignity or to mystery either.) So, when I started swimming again recently I decided to answer the question once and for all. What are the best male swimming trunks on the planet and what do they do for you in and out of the drink?
众所周知，拜伦勋爵(Lord Byron)曾游过达达尼尔海峡——从黑海到爱琴海——模仿神话传说中利安得(Leander)游过海峡看望恋人希罗(Hero)的故事。当时他穿的是裤子。“湿淋淋的四肢让我几乎伸展不开，”他提起这次英勇事迹时写道，“想来那真是壮举。”但是我们剩下这些人，无论浪漫与否，都想让泳衣有助于游泳，而不是在身体周围膨胀起来，或者勒住要害部位（即使你这辈子在着装方面犯过各种错误，你也不能穿Speedo牌泳裤或三角泳裤，它们会让你既没尊严，也没神秘感）。所以，最近我又开始游泳时决定彻底回答这个问题：这世上最好的男子泳裤是什么，它们在水中和岸上能带给你什么？
I tried surfer shorts. Strangely, I looked like nobody in “Point Break.” I tried little blue shorts like the ones Daniel Craig wore in “Casino Royale” (which sold for over $70,000 at auction) and felt like a guppy fish auditioning for a part in Blue Hawaii: The Musical. I looked at all the summer catalogs and kept my eye on the shows. Richard James’s green, leaf-print shorts in fast-drying polyamide? Too elasticated at the waist. Christopher Kane’s paint-splashed midthigh creations? Too self-conscious, too ugly, too much. So, what about Vilebrequin, maker of the swimming shorts for the style-minded holiday-making dad, with their Floridian palette of green zebras, purple seahorses, Day-Glo turtles and scarlet shrimp? Pretty, but too many pockets, too much Velcro and too much effort in what should be the season of not-trying-hard.
我试过冲浪短裤。奇怪的是，我看起来一点都不像《惊爆点》(Point Break)里的人。我还试过丹尼尔·克雷格(Daniel Craig)在《皇家赌场》(Casino Royale)中穿的那种蓝色短泳裤（它在拍卖会上以7万多美元的价格售出），感觉自己像一条为音乐片《蓝色夏威夷》(Blue Hawaii)试镜的古比鱼。我看了所有的夏季购物目录，还留意了所有的时装秀。理查德·詹姆斯(Richard James)牌用快干聚酰胺材料做的绿色叶子图案的短泳裤？腰太松了。克里斯托弗·凯恩(Christopher Kane)牌的中长泼漆图案的泳裤？太不自然、太丑、太夸张。那Vilebrequin牌的怎么样呢？这个男子泳裤制造商为那些注重时尚的度假父亲们准备了佛罗里达色彩的泳裤：绿色的斑马、紫色的海马、荧光幻彩的海龟和鲜红的大虾。是很好看，但是口袋太多，尼龙搭扣太多，对本该放松的度假来说，它太过用心了。
I bought a pair of green Hartford trunks and took them in a rolled-up towel to the Olympic swimming pool in London’s East End. Reader, I loved them. They are so lightweight you hardly notice they are there: with no drag in the water and neat pockets that didn’t inflate, I slipped into the water and rolled on to my back and felt summer had arrived, the essence of summer, somehow carried in one fluid movement by the “wave” of the building designed by Zaha Hadid. I felt for a happy moment I was swimming in design: the green shorts no less than the ceiling proving conducive to a run of lengths down the Olympic pool. Maybe we care about swimwear because, while we’re rolling in the deep, our scanty attire can seem to be the last vestige of the material world, the last of the landlubber’s choices. I loved the feel of the Hartford shorts, and occasionally, I caught a gleam of their calm emerald vitality through the water.
我买了一条哈特福特(Hartford)绿色泳裤，把它卷在毛巾里拿进伦敦东区的奥林匹克游泳池。读者们，我很喜欢它。它很轻，你几乎感觉不到自己穿着它：它在水里不会牵绊你，口袋服帖，不会膨胀起来。我滑入水中，仰泳前进，我感觉夏天已经到了，夏天的精髓好像存在于扎哈·哈迪德(Zaha Hadid)设计的这个建筑的流动的“波浪”中。在最开心的瞬间，我感觉自己是在设计中游泳：绿色的泳裤和那里的天花板一样，让你想在奥林匹克游泳池里多待一会儿。也许我们在意泳衣是因为我们在水底徜徉的时候，我们身上剩的这点衣服是物质世界的最后一点印记，旱鸭子们的最后一个选择。我喜欢哈特福特泳裤给我的感觉，我偶尔透过水能瞥见它令人平静、给人活力的绿宝石般的微光。
Swimming is a state of mind, and so is memory. People speak of floating in memory and they speak of love as a floating feeling. Maybe somewhere in there we find a reasoning for the summer’s long dream of emotional well-being. Love and swimming are a dream of restfulness, a dream of being overcome and sustained and cleansed. The poet Algernon Swinburne captures all of it in one of his greatest poems, and we love poetry in this magazine, so let us have a little part of it here, “A Swimmer’s Dream”:
游泳是一种精神状态，梦也是如此。人们总说徜徉在回忆里，说爱情给人一种漂浮的感觉。也许我们在其中找到了夏季让人精神愉快的原因。爱和游泳是关于宁静的美梦，是关于被征服、被维护、被净化的美梦。诗人阿尔杰农·斯温伯恩(Algernon Swinburne)在他最伟大的诗歌《游泳者的梦》(A Swimmer’s Dream)中充分表达了这种感受。这本杂志喜欢诗歌，所以让我们重温这首诗中的一小段：
A dream, and more than a dream, and dimmer
像一场梦，比梦还美，灰暗
At once and brighter than dreams that flee,
只是一时，比消散的梦更明亮                                        
The moment’s joy of the seaward swimmer
那一刻，大海泳者的欢愉                                                
Abides, remembered as truth may be.
在脑际徘徊，如此清晰                                                   
Not all the joy and not all the glory
不是所有的欢愉，不是所有的狂喜                                  
Must fade as leaves when the woods wax hoary;
一定会像树叶般枯萎                                                       
For there the downs and the sea-banks glimmer,
海水的起伏，岸边的微光                                               
And here to south of them swells the sea.
浪花的涌动，久久不息
My time at the Olympic pool ended in emptiness too. The last whistle at 9 p.m. sent the swimmers scurrying for the changing rooms. Funny that: the changing rooms, the places where swimming togs are replaced with proper clothes, and where the dreamer assumes his or her place in the world out there. I continued to swim, remembering the roar of the 2012 Summer Games and the athletic miracles on the diving platform behind me. I remembered earlier swimmers and earlier costumes — the black bodysuit worn by Ian Thorpe, who once swam 200 meters in 1 minute 44.06 seconds; Weissmuller’s best time was 2 minutes 8 seconds — and realized a single image had stuck in my mind about men’s swimming costumes. In “Haunts of the Black Masseur,” Charles Sprawson’s wonderful book about swimming, we learn of Matthew Webb, the first man to swim the English Channel: “He dived off the Admiralty Pier, Dover, wearing a red costume, made of silk like Ranjitsinhji’s cricket shirts.” Swimming in the dark, he made it to the other side and it was one of that era’s triumphs of the human spirit. Eight years later, wearing the same red silk costume, he attempted to swim across the river beneath Niagara Falls. He was captured by a terrible, ominous whirlpool and was later found dead, his costume “torn to shreds.”
我在奥林匹克游泳池的时光也以空荡收尾。晚上9点的最后一声哨音令很多游泳者匆忙跑回更衣室。真是好笑：更衣室，把泳衣换成正常服装的地方，那是刚才在水中做梦的人重拾自己在世间所处位置的地方。我继续游泳，想起了2012年夏季奥运会上的呐喊声，想起了运动员们在我身后的跳板上创造的奇迹。我还想起了从前的游泳者和泳衣——伊恩·索普(Ian Thorpe)穿的黑色紧身衣，他曾经用1分44.06秒游完了200米；韦斯穆勒的最好成绩是2分零8秒——我意识到关于男子泳装，有一个形象已经深深刻在了我的脑海里。在查尔斯·斯普罗森(Charles Sprawson)精彩的关于游泳的《黑按摩师的幽灵》(Haunts of the Black Masseur)中，我们知道了第一个游过英吉利海峡的人马修·韦布(Matthew Webb)：“他从多佛的海军码头跳下海，身穿红色丝质服装，很像郎吉辛吉(Ranjitsinhji)的板球衫。”他在黑暗中游到了对岸，是那个时代人类精神的胜利之一。八年后，他穿着同一件红色丝质服装尝试游过尼亚加拉瀑布下面的河流。他被卷入了一个可怕的、不祥的漩涡中，后来人们发现他的尸体时，他的衣服已经“被撕成了碎片”。
The last of the new swimming trunks I kept for an illegal assignment. The Ladies’ Pond at Hampstead Heath is closed to men, so I went late one night, carrying another pair by Orlebar Brown, these ones colored a deep electric blue. I climbed over the fence. I got changed next to the reeds and grasses, then trembled my way into the forbidden waters. My body seemed to shrink and the water was scorchingly cold — it was 48 degrees — and I swam out into the dark middle and rolled over and smiled at the stars. Good grief. There’s nothing here but transformation, I thought, the stuff of life, and the cold above and the cold below. But, even so, the trunks added a note of warmth in that zone of moonlight and shadows, and I was glad I had found the perfect swimwear at last, three sets of trunks that would last me forever, and forever seemed closer and more acceptable as I lay on my back and floated over the pond.
我把最后一条新泳裤留作进行一项非法活动。汉普斯特西斯公园的女士池塘(The Ladies’ Pond)不对男士开放，所以有一天深夜我去那里了，带着另一条深钢青色奥莱巴·布朗泳裤。我翻过篱笆，在芦苇和草地边换好泳裤，然后颤抖着走进被禁止的水域。我的身体似乎缩小了，池水刺骨地寒冷——48华氏度——我游到黑暗的湖心，把身子翻过来，微笑着仰望星空。天哪。我当时心想，四周一无所有，只有焕然一新、生命的况味以及水面上和水中的寒冷。但即便如此，在月影斑驳中，泳裤还是带给我一丝温暖。我很高兴自己最终找到了完美的泳裤，这三条泳裤会永远陪伴着我。当我脸朝上漂浮在池塘中时，“永远”似乎变得更近了，更可接受了。