IN the fall of 1965, I arrived in New York City, flush with somebody else’s oil money, to purchase books for a bookshop I was managing in Houston. The shop was called the Bookman and had several eccentric features: Our safe was the boll of a Louisiana gum tree; there was a room full of rare tobaccos, though smoking was forbidden; and there was even a young Asian man to serve sherry to such bewildered hicks as straggled in from time to time.
1965年秋，我来到纽约市，拿着别人油腻腻的钱，面红耳赤地为我在休斯敦经营的书店采购图书。我的书店名叫“书人”，它有几个奇怪的特点：我们的保险柜是一个路易斯安那胶树的树荚；书店有一个屋子里放满珍稀的烟草，尽管店里不许吸烟；还有一个年轻的亚洲人把雪利酒卖给不时溜达进来的乡下人。
What we didn’t have were books, which was why I was in New York in autumn, walking up some dusty stairs to the famous Seven Gables Bookshop, managed then by Michael Papantonio and John S. Van E. Kohn, two of the most respected antiquarian booksellers of their time.
店里缺的是书，所以我在秋天来到纽约，沿着满是灰尘的台阶走进著名的七山墙书店，当时书店的主人是迈克尔·帕潘托尼奥(Michael Papantonio)和约翰·S·范·E·科恩(John S. Van E. Kohn)，两人都是当时最受尊敬的古书卖家。
Back then, single-page printed ads bound inside the covers of books, promoting other books by the same publisher, were thought to establish the priority and value of that edition. But we at the Bookman discovered they had no connection whatsoever to value when, some years later, I stupidly sold these same gentlemen a beautiful copy of Thoreau’s “Walden” for a mere $12, because I thought the ads placed inside the covers mattered.
当时，要鉴定该书版本的重要性与价值，可以参考出版社当年装订在书中用来促销其他书籍的单页广告。但是我们“书人”出人意料地发觉它们并不能让书卖得更贵——几年之后我曾经愚蠢地把一本漂亮的梭罗(Thoreau)的《瓦尔登湖》仅以12美元的价格卖给了这两位绅士，因为我觉得内附的广告影响了书的价值。
“Oh, we don’t pay attention to the ads,” Mr. Kohn said to me. Live and learn.
“啊，我们没注意到这些广告，”科恩先生对我说。人真得活到老学到老。
From the Seven Gables, I strolled down the street to the famous Gotham Book Mart, where a sign hung outside the store announced, “Wise Men Fish Here.” Frances Steloff, still the owner and in her 70s, was up on a ladder, pricing works on the occult; she never came down while I was present, and she soon sold the Gotham to a young Californian named Andreas Brown.
从七山墙出来，我沿街漫步，来到著名的哥谭图书市场(Gotham Book Mart)，店外挂着一块标志牌，上书“聪明人在此寻书”(Wise Men Fish Here)。70多岁的弗朗西斯·斯代洛夫(Frances Steloff)当时仍是店主，我去的时候，她正在隐蔽的地方登着梯子给书标价，直到我走时也没下来，不久后她把哥谭图书市场卖给一个名叫安德雷斯·布朗(Andreas Brown)的加利福尼亚人。
I imagine Andreas thought that if he bought the Gotham, he would acquire it, or at least acquire its aura. But Miss Steloff lived to a great age, and so did her grip on its aura. But those battles, if there were battles, were fought long ago. Frances lived nearly a quarter-century after she sold the store and died in 1989 at 101. The Gotham is now gone.
我想象着安德烈斯的心情：如果他买下“哥谭”，就能拥有它，至少是拥有它的气场。但斯代洛夫小姐活到高龄，这书店的气场一直都属于她。但这些斗争（假如有斗争的话）已经是很久以前的事了。弗朗西斯卖出书店后又活了将近25年，1989年去世，享年101岁。“哥谭”如今已经不复存在。
The other powerful woman on the New York book scene at that time was the redoubtable Marguerite Cohn, of the House of Books Ltd., the first New York bookseller to focus on the condition of the books she sold and of the collections she built. Margie, as her friends called her, was explosive. I believe she once flung a copy of “Three Stories and Ten Poems” at someone: her husband, who was Hemingway’s first bibliographer; one of her husband’s mistresses; or Edmund Wilson. The record is not clear, but the book is currently worth maybe $75,000.
当年纽约图书界其他位高权重的女人还有图书屋有限公司(House of Books Ltd.)令人生畏的玛格丽特·科恩(Marguerite Cohn)，她是第一个特别关注自己出售图书的书况，以及自己藏书书况的纽约书商。玛吉（朋友们都这么叫她）性情暴躁。我相信她肯定曾经冲人扔过《三个故事和十首诗》(Three Stories and Ten Poems)——包括她丈夫，海明威(Hemingway)的第一位书目编制者；她丈夫的某位情妇；还有埃德蒙·威尔逊(Edmund Wilson)。虽然记录不明，但那本书如今恐怕值7.5万美元左右。
Margie, on a buying trip to London, looked the wrong way, stepped off a curb and was killed by a truck. She may have had more disciples in the trade than any other dealer, the most impressive perhaps being Peter B. Howard of Serendipity Books in Berkeley, Calif. Both shop and shopkeeper are now gone.
玛吉在去伦敦采购时过马路看错了方向，迈下人行道时被卡车撞死。她在图书业的门徒可能比任何书商都多，其中最有名的或许就是加利福尼亚伯克利偶然书店(Serendipity)的老板彼得·B·霍华德(Peter B. Howard)。现在这家书店和老板都已经不在了。
I next visited the Carnegie Book Shop, run by the amazing David Kirschenbaum, 80 years a bookseller in Manhattan. He took over his father’s book cart at the age of 8 and kept on trucking for most of the century. Across his desk passed some of the most notable books to be traded in recent times, including George Washington’s personal copy of “The Federalist.” The father of our country was also a reader, though that particular copy from his library had been in and out of the trade for nearly 100 years.
接下来我还去了卡耐基书店(Carnegie Book Shop)，由了不起的大卫·柯申鲍姆(David Kirschenbaum)经营，他在曼哈顿当书商，一干就是80年。八岁那年，他继承了父亲的卖书事业，在上个世纪的大部分时间里一直苦干。在他的的桌子上放着新近买来的几本最著名的书，包括乔治·华盛顿个人印刷的《联邦党人》(The Federalist)。我们的国父也爱读书，然而这本来自他图书室的藏书近百年来一直被买进卖出。
My own first purchase from the Carnegie Book Shop was a 57-volume collection of the works of Maurice Baring, the author of a once famous commonplace book titled “Have You Anything to Declare?” Baring wrote a little of everything: novels, reportage, satire, trivia. Texans who frequented my bookstore proved not keen on Maurice Baring, but I enjoy him and have even improved my own collection a bit.
我第一次在卡耐基书店卖书是买了一套57卷的莫里斯·贝灵(Maurice Baring)作品集。这位作家的《你有什么要宣告的吗》(Have You Anything to Declare)一书曾经一度家喻户晓。贝灵什么都写一点：小说、报道、讽刺文学、琐事。经常来我书店的得克萨斯人对莫里斯·贝灵不感兴趣，但我喜欢他，甚至还增加了一点自己的收藏。
From the Carnegie, I then traveled downtown to Dauber & Pine, to the Strand, to the original Barnes & Noble, and briefly to the Jersey suburbs, haunt of the accomplished book scout Ike Brussel, who claimed to be the last of the great scouts, though he wasn’t.
离开卡耐基，我又去了市中心的“道波与派恩”(Dauber & Pine)、“河岸”(Strand)，还有最早的“巴诺”(Barnes & Noble)，然后又短暂地去了泽西郊区，著名书探艾克·布鲁塞尔(Ike Brussel)的幽魂在那里徘徊，人们说他之后再也没有伟大的书探，虽然并不是这样。
I am glad I got to glimpse the legendary booksellers from this splendid generation. They were beginning to thin out even as I arrived. The Argosy Book Store and the Strand are still operating, but most of the rest are gone, felled not by the Internet, but merely by scoundrel time. Here is a brief honor roll of bookshops now vanished: the Seven Gables Bookshop; House of Books Ltd.; Scribner’s; the Gotham Book Mart; the Carnegie Book Shop; Dauber & Pine; the Eberstadt Brothers; University Place Book Shop; House of El Dieff; and Parnassus Books.
我很高兴自己能够亲眼看见那个辉煌年代中的传奇书商们。当我去纽约时，这个群体已经开始衰败。大商船书店(The Argosy Book Store)和“河岸”仍在营业，但其余大多数已经不在，它们不是被互联网打败，而是被险恶的时代。下面是一份光荣榜，记载那些已经消逝的书店：七山墙书店、图书屋有限公司、斯克里布纳(Scribner’s)、哥谭图书市场、卡耐基书店、道波与派恩、艾伯斯塔兹兄弟(Eberstadt Brothers)、大学书店(University Place Book Shop)、艾尔·迪夫书屋(House of El Dieff)、巴纳萨斯书店(Parnassus Books)。
I was only in this Elysium for two days in 1965, but I was drawn back many, many times since and still go back, though now I feel as if I am visiting a city of ghosts.
1965年，我只在这个极乐世界呆了两天，但之后我又回来过很多次，如今我仍然经常回去，尽管如今感觉自己到访的仿佛是一座鬼城。