If you want to know just how big “Star Wars” was in 1977, consider the story of the empty toy box.
要想知道《星球大战》(Star Wars)在1977年有多火爆，不妨听听这个空玩具箱的故事。
That year, as the film marched into history, Kenner Products, a company that had been licensed to make “Star Wars” action figures, hit a roadblock. Production had fallen behind, and the toys wouldn’t be ready for Christmas. Much like Han Solo (“They’re not going to get me without a fight!”), Kenner rallied: It inserted gift certificates into the boxes guaranteeing delivery of the figurines between February and June 1978. And on Dec. 25, children across the country received I.O.U.’s under the tree and filled those boxes with tears of thanks. It seemed like the dawn of a new age, the commencement of the cradle-to-grave entertainment experience that is “Star Wars.”
那一年，这部电影上映时，获得授权生产《星球大战》人像玩具的肯纳制造(Kenner Products)公司遇到了困难。生产速度远远滞后，圣诞节期间玩具没法上市。和汉·索罗(Han Solo，名言是，“他们才不能轻易抓住我”)一样，肯纳公司在逆境中振作起来：他们在玩具箱中塞入礼券，保证在1978年2月到6月之间一定把玩具小人像送达。到了12月25日那天，全国的孩子们都在圣诞树下收到了公司的“欠条”，不禁流下了感激的泪水。这似乎标志着新时代的黎明，从摇篮到坟墓，老幼皆宜，相伴终生的娱乐体验正是从《星球大战》开始的。
To grasp the impact of “Star Wars” and the world it helped create — and to understand both contemporary fandom and the entertainment industry — you have to accept that when George Lucas likened himself to a toymaker in the 1970s, he wasn’t kidding. Toys were always part of the “Star Wars” world; they still are. On Sept. 4, at precisely 12:01 a.m., the Walt Disney Company, which now owns Lucasfilm, kicked off a merchandising extravaganza with retailers like Walmart called “Force Friday.” It was a pseudo-event that was dutifully and excitedly covered by news media and infotainment outfits, despite being just another stop on the rollout for Disney’s “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” which, in case you’ve been stuck in another galaxy, opens Dec. 18.
要想了解《星球大战》的重大影响，它所缔造的世界，乃至了解当代粉丝群体和娱乐工业，你就得明白，20世纪70年代，当乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)把自己比作一个玩具制造者的时候，他可不是说着玩儿的。玩具一直都是《星球大战》世界的一部分，到现在仍是如此。9月4日凌晨12：01，卢卡斯电影公司(Lucasfilm)现在的东家沃尔特·迪士尼公司与沃尔玛等零售商合作，开始了一项名为“原力周五”的大型衍生商品推广活动。新闻媒体和娱乐资讯节目认真兴奋地报道了这件事，但它其实是一项“伪活动”，只是迪士尼首次展示《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Star Wars: The Force Awakens)中的一站罢了——以防你现在被困在另一个星系——12月18日就可以看到这部影片了。
Love or hate it — or love it and hate it, as legions of its fans do — the “Star Wars” series is a force to reckon with, less because of Mr. Lucas than the fans who elevated it to cinema’s alpha and omega. The relationship between “Star Wars” and its fans extends beyond collectibles and conventions to what can be understood only as a form of ownership. Mr. Lucas created “Star Wars,” but it’s the fans who turned the franchise into the phenomenon that has evolved into one of the most remarkable relationships between a director and the most dedicated admirers of his work, a codependency defined by feverish loyalty (from the fans) and, on occasion, loathing (from each side).
不管你爱它还是恨它，抑或像无数粉丝那样，对它又爱又恨，《星球大战》系列都是一股需要重视的力量，这与其说是因为卢卡斯，倒不如说是因为那些把它提升到电影史上重要位置的影迷们。《星球大战》和其粉丝的关系超出了收藏和习惯的范畴，只能理解为一种拥有与被拥有的关系。卢卡斯创造出了《星球大战》，但粉丝们把这个系列变成了一种现象，导演与其作品的忠实拥趸之间的关系变得极为特别——粉丝的狂热忠诚以及双方偶尔的厌恶构成了一种相互依存的关系。
Mr. Lucas always knew his audience. In April 1977, the month before “Star Wars” opened, American Film magazine ran an interview in which he talked about who he wanted to reach. “Rather than do some angry, socially relevant film,” he said, “I realized that there was another relevance that is even more important — dreams and fantasies, getting children to believe there is more to life than garbage and killing and all that real stuff like stealing hubcaps — that you could still sit and dream about exotic lands and strange creatures.” His influences were a postmodern grab bag, from samurai films to “John Carter of Mars.” (Years later, Joseph Campbell was worked into the conversation, too.) Crucially, Mr. Lucas said, “I wanted to make a children’s movie, to go the Disney route.”
卢卡斯一直都很了解自己的观众。1977年4月，《星球大战》上映前一个月，《美国电影》(American Film)杂志采访了他，他这样描述自己期待的受众。“和那些愤怒的，社会题材的电影相比，”他说，“我觉得另一种题材甚至更加重要——那就是梦想与幻想，它们能让孩子们相信，生活中有比垃圾、杀戮和偷汽车轮盖之类的真实事件更加重要的事情——你可以坐在那儿，幻想着外星世界和奇怪的生物。”他所受过的影响堪称各种后现代的大杂烩，从各种武士片到《异星战场》（John Carter of Mars）——几年后，约瑟夫·坎贝尔(Joseph Campbell)也出现在卢卡斯的谈话中——卢卡斯说，最重要的是，“我想拍一部孩子的电影，走迪士尼的路线。”
He specifically sought out science-fiction fans for “Star Wars,” and 20th Century Fox, its distributor, advised exhibitors to use science-fiction displays in public libraries to reach youngsters on summer break. Fox also urged exhibitors to try to rope in college students in language suggesting that this was a flick meant to be seen in an altered state: “If ever a motion picture was guaranteed to catch and send the imagination of college students soaring, it’s ‘Star Wars.’ ” Figuratively or through a cloud of smoke, the audience soared, and so did the box-office receipts. The film was a smash, conquering the public and critics — in May 1977, Time crowned it the year’s best — and remained in theaters throughout 1977, reopening in ’78 and in successive years. (Most studio movies now are in theaters for about four months.)
他特别注意为《星球大战》招揽那些科幻小说的粉丝，电影的发行者20世纪福克斯公司建议放映商利用公共图书馆里的科幻展厅，在暑假期间吸引年轻观众。福克斯还鼓励放映商暗示这部影片可以在嗑药状态下观看，从而拉拢大学生观众：“如果有一部影片能够令大学生们的想象力飞升起来，那一定是《星球大战》。”不管是比喻意义上的“飞升”，还是通过大麻烟雾的“飞升”，这部影片确实让观众们飞升了一把，而票房也是一飞冲天。这部电影大获成功，不仅征服了观众，也征服了评论界。1977年5月，《时代》(Time)杂志就将它评为年度最佳，整个1977年它一直在影院上映，1978年又重新上映，其后若干年里还曾一再重映（如今的大片只能在影院里停留约四个月的时间）。
Amid the gush, there were doubts. In The Village Voice, Molly Haskell wrote, “what I find mildly depressing about ‘Star Wars’ is that it seems to address itself, like more and more television programming, to a ‘family market’ defined by its prepubescent age level, somewhere between 10 and 14.” She added, “Lucas bridges the generation gap simply by providing a one-way ticket back to adolescence.” The accusation that the film infantilizes its audience stuck. In 1996, the critic David Thomson lamented the immaturity of the contemporary movie scene that he traced to “Jaws” and “Star Wars.” “I fear the medium has sunk beyond anything we dreamed of, leaving us stranded, a race of dreamers,” he wrote. “This is something like the loss of feeling, and I blame Spielberg and Lucas.”
这股热潮之中也不乏质疑之声。莫莉·哈斯盖尔(Molly Haskell)为《村声》(Village Voice)撰文写道：“我对《星球大战》有一点失望的是，和时下愈来愈多的电视节目一样，它把自己定位为面向‘家庭市场’，即前青春期年龄段（10岁到14岁左右）的影片。”她还说，“卢卡斯在代沟之上架起了桥梁，但途径是一张回到青少年时期的单程票。”把观众低龄化的指责一直跟随着《星球大战》系列。1996年，评论家大卫·汤姆森(David Thomson)抱怨当代电影场景中的不成熟趋势可以追溯到《大白鲨》(Jaws)和《星球大战》。“我担心这种媒介已经退回到我们所梦想的事物之外，让我们滞留在那里，成为做梦的一族，”他写道。“这有点像丧失知觉，我觉得都要怪斯皮尔伯格和卢卡斯。”
The charge that these two “wonder kids,” as Mr. Thomson called them, effectively destroyed the movies and perhaps even our love for them has been repeated so often that it became a near-article of faith in some cinephile quarters. It’s a story that begins in the mid-1960s when the big studios were gasping their last breath, having never recovered from the introduction of television or the government-forced sale of their theaters. Run by doddering old men who catastrophically banked on pricey flops like “Doctor Dolittle,” the studios were rescued by mostly young, white, male executives and auteurs who, beginning in 1967 with “Bonnie and Clyde,” shook up the industry and country with exciting images and a sense of real life that, while indebted to European art cinema, was essentially American.
汤姆森说他们是两个“神奇儿童”，多年来，无数文章不断谴责他们成功地毁灭了电影，或许还毁灭了我们对电影的热爱，在某些影迷圈子里，这种观点已经成为近似信仰的存在。故事是这样的：20世纪60年代中期，受到电视业和政府强制出售影院的打击，大型制片公司已经朝不保夕。当时这些公司由衰弱的老年人运营，他们寄希望于《杜立德医生》(Doctor Dolittle)之类昂贵的影片，结果却是灾难性的失败。这时，那些年轻的白人男性制片人与导演们拯救了电影公司们，其开端是1967年的《邦妮和克莱德》(Bonnie and Clyde)，它以其生动的画面和现实感震撼了整个电影界与整个国家，这些电影虽然受到欧洲艺术电影启发，但本质仍然是美国的。
The release of “Jaws” in 1975 and “Star Wars” two years later has often been blamed for bringing an end to these creative good times, paving the way for the blockbuster bloat and sequel spectacle that now defines mainstream cinema and, for some, transforming Mr. Lucas from a New Hollywood Anakin Skywalker into the Darth Vader of American cinema. Like “Star Wars,” this story is as simple as an old B-movie shootout, except one in which the good guys (the likes of Hal Ashby and Robert Towne) lose to the bad (Mr. Lucas, Steven Spielberg and the suits).
1975年的《大白鲨》与两年后的《星球大战》经常被人指责为终结了这段充满创意的好时代，为其后限定了主流电影的浮夸大片与系列片大制作风潮铺平了道路，有些人觉得它让卢卡斯从新的好莱坞“安纳金·天行者”(Anakin Skywalker)变成了美国电影界的黑武士(Darth Vader)。正如《星球大战》一样，这个故事和B级片里的枪战一样简单，只不过这一次，好人（比如霍尔·阿什比[Hal Ashby]和罗伯特·汤[Robert Towne]等人）败在了坏人（卢卡斯和史蒂夫·斯皮尔伯格一伙）手上。
That doesn’t mean there’s not some truth in the tale, only that it’s complicated. The late 1960s and early ’70s had their screen glories, but it’s an era that was as dominated by “The Jungle Book” and “The Trial of Billy Jack” as by “The Graduate” and “Chinatown.” And even as critics and audiences embraced bold visions on screen, some of the most significant shifts took place in boardrooms between 1966 and ’69, when four of the seven Hollywood studios were bought by non-media conglomerates that, as the film historian Tom Schatz has suggested, were the antecedents to the media giants of today. These conglomerates allowed the studios to keep the machine going, and they also laid the foundation of the global entertainment industry as it now exists.
这个故事里并非没有真实色彩，只不过真相略有一些复杂。60年代末到70年代初，电影有过自己的辉煌，那个时代既有《森林王子》(The Jungle Book)和《比利·杰克的审判》(The Trial of Billy Jack)等大片，也有《毕业生》(The Graduate)和《唐人街》(Chinatown)等艺术片。虽然评论家和观众们也热情地接受了屏幕上那些大胆的形象，但在1966年到1969年，最大的变革其实是发生在董事会会议室里，当时七家好莱坞制片公司中有四家都被非传媒性质的大公司买下，正如电影史学家汤姆·莎茨(Tom Schatz)指出，这些大公司其实是如今传媒巨头的鼻祖。它们允许电影公司继续运行自己的机制，同时也为如今的全球娱乐工业奠定了基础。
When “Jaws” opened amid a blizzard of advertising in the summer of 1975 in 400 or so theaters, a large number at the time, it set the course for the contemporary blockbuster. And then “Star Wars” hit. Fox was banking on “Star Wars” but didn’t think it would be especially big, which may be why it made one of the worst deals in industry history. Burned by his experience with Universal while making “American Graffiti,” Mr. Lucas demanded — and got — extraordinary control over “Star Wars.” By the time his negotiations with Fox were over, he owned the rights to its sequels and the merchandising, though the studio did receive a cut of every Darth Vader mask and Chewy figurine. (Fox has retained the distribution rights to the first film, now often known as “Episode IV — A New Hope,” in perpetuity.)
1975年夏，《大白鲨》伴着狂风暴雨般的广告宣传登陆400多家影院（这在当时是个极大的数字），也为当今的影院大片定下了方向。其后便是《星球大战》的走红。福克斯对《星球大战》抱有很大期待，但没想到它竟会这么红，或许正因如此，才导致它签下了电影史上最糟糕的合约之一。卢卡斯在拍摄《美国风情画》(American Graffiti)时，同环球影业合作得很不愉快，于是在拍摄《星球大战》时，他要求自己拥有极大的控制权（最终他也得到了这样的权力）。和福克斯公司的谈判结束后，他得到了影片续集以及周边产品的特许经营权，不过公司的确也能从黑武士面具和楚巴卡人像的销售收入中分到一笔利润（目前福克斯公司已经永久收回《星球大战》1977年第一部影片的发行权，如今它一般被称为《星球大战第四集：新希望》[Episode IV — A New Hope]）。
Mr. Lucas’s true genius may be in marketing, including of his vision. Like other filmmakers who came of age in the 1960s, when American directors became auteurs, he has strong views on authorship. In a 1997 interview with Wired, he addressed the studios’ and artists’ rights, arguing that a copyright should belong to “the artist” of a film and not the large corporation that owns it. “I solved the problem by owning my own copyright,” Mr. Lucas said, “so nobody can screw around with my stuff. Nobody can take ‘Star Wars’ and make Yoda walk, because I own it.” When asked about the changes that he had made to his earlier work, including to “Star Wars,” he said: “It’s my artistic vision. If I want to go back and change it, it’s my business, not somebody else’s.”
卢卡斯真正的才华或许在于市场营销，包括经营自己的理念。60年代是美国导演开始向导演中心制演变的时期，和许多在那个时期成熟起来的电影人一样，卢卡斯也把“创作者”这个身份看得很重。在1997年接受《连线》(Wired)采访时，他谈起制片公司与艺术家的权利，认为版权应当属于创造电影的“艺术家”，而不是拥有它的大公司。“我解决这个问题的方法就是自己掌握自己的版权，”卢卡斯说，“这样就不会有人来搞坏我的东西。没有人能拿走《星球大战》，让尤达大师走路，因为它是属于我的。”被问到他对包括《星球大战》在内的早期作品做出的改动时，他说：“这是我的艺术视野。如果我想回去改动什么，那也是我自己的事，不是别人的事。”
He could not be more wrong. If the past four decades have made anything clear, “Star Wars” the phenomenon doesn’t belong to Mr. Lucas or a studio, no matter what the copyright states: It is owned by the fans who — aided and abetted by him and his expansive empire — turned it into a sensation, a passion, a cult and, for some, a lifestyle. In 1977, when the first movie opened, a fan could buy tie-in promotional toys, T-shirts, posters, masks, books, comics and children’s costumes. And no wonder: It was a film, as Mr. Lucas said in 1980, written with “visions of R2-D2 mugs and little windup robots.” As the decades and sequels opened and closed, those mugs and toys multiplied into a seemingly infinitely expanding emporium of desire, a “Star Wars” alternative reality in which you could live, play (online and off) and dream.
他真是大错特错了。在过去的40年里，如果有什么事情变得清晰起来，那就是，不论版权如何归属，《星球大战》现象并不仅仅属于卢卡斯或制片公司，它属于那些粉丝们，在卢卡斯以及他那个辽阔的帝国的帮助与唆使之下，这些粉丝把这部影片变成一种情怀、一种激情，一种小众的迷恋，对于某些人来说，它更是成了一种生活方式。1977年，第一部《星球大战》影片上映之时，影迷就可以买到搭配销售的促销玩具、T恤衫、海报、面具、书籍、漫画和儿童服装。这也难怪，正如卢卡斯在1980年说的，这部电影是伴随着“R2-D2马克杯和小发条机器人的形象”写成的。几十年来，这个系列不断重开，类似的马克杯和玩具层出不穷，扩展为一个无穷无尽，充满欲望的商业中心，构成了一个《星球大战》的世界，你可以在里面生活、玩耍（不论是在网上还是网下），做梦。
In its narrative simplicity — its good versus evil morality, its cheerfully blank hero and bang-bang action — “Star Wars” became the ultimate toy, one that fans could spin in all sorts of directions. Its universe was at once specific and so broad that it inspired fan fiction in every imaginable form, tone and medium from comics to novels and movies. Years before the popularization of the idea of participatory culture, a term for those who are at once pop-culture consumers and contributors, “Star Wars” fans had staked their claim on this world. That engagement sometimes took Mr. Lucas aback. “It’s always amazing to me when people take them so seriously,” he is quoted as saying in Dale Pollock’s essential book “Skywalking” (1983). His movies, Mr. Lucas also said then, are “kind of dumb.” (In turn, the fans have lashed out at him, including for digitally fiddling with “A New Hope.”)
《星球大战》的叙事很简单，就是善与恶的说教，它的英雄人物欢快苍白，充满打来打去的动作场面，因此它成了一个终极玩具，一个可供粉丝向任何方向扭转的玩具。它的宇宙曾经如此特别，如此辽阔，启发了各种类型与各种基调的影迷文学，形式也是多种多样，从漫画到小说再到电影。如今盛行的“参与文化”——即流行文化的消费者同时也是它的参与创造者——出现很多年之前，《星球大战》的影迷们就开始主张自己对这个世界的权力了。他们的热情有时候让卢卡斯也感到震惊。“人们那么认真，让我觉得很有意思，”1983年，戴尔·波洛克(Dale Pollock)的《天行》(Skywalking)一书引用他的话说。卢卡斯还说，自己的电影“有点蠢”。（作为对此的回应，影迷们开始抨击他，包括推出一个数码篡改版的《新希望》）。
In the years since, Mr. Lucas has clearly embraced his destiny as a force. And while it may seem strange, given his hatred of the studios, that he sold Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, he found it a perfect home. Mr. Lucas helped shape modern conglomerate cinema, to borrow a term from Mr. Schatz, but it was Disney that really pioneered cradle-to-grave entertainment. In 1929, Walt Disney sold the rights to use Mickey Mouse (soon called the “million dollar mouse”) on children’s writing tablets, signing his first licensing contract a year later. “The sale of a doll to any member of a household,” Roy Disney, Walt’s brother, said, “is a daily advertisement in that household for our cartoons and keeps them all ‘Mickey Mouse Minded.’ ” As it turns out, though, the real Force is the mouse that roared.
从那以后，卢卡斯开始把自己的命运当做力量。2012年，他把卢卡斯影业卖给了迪士尼，虽然鉴于他对电影公司的厌恶，这个举动看上去很奇怪，但他毕竟为公司找到了一个完美的归宿。用莎茨的话说，卢卡斯参与奠定了现代“大公司电影业”的基础，但毕竟迪士尼才是那种老幼全家欢娱乐的先驱。1929年，沃尔特·迪士尼授权米老鼠出现在孩子们的写字本上（它很快就被人们称为“百万美元老鼠”），一年后，又签下了自己的第一份特许经营合同。“这种一美元的商品可以卖给任何家庭成员，”沃尔特的弟弟罗伊·迪士尼(Roy Disney)说，“这是为我们的卡通形象做家庭里的每日广告，提醒他们‘记着米老鼠’。”于是米老鼠就这样成为一种“原力”，笑到了最后。