HONG KONG — The theft of dogs, often to be resold as meat, is a sad reality for people with pets in China. But the theft of one 7-year-old black Labrador in Beijing on Monday has provoked an unusual outcry.
香港——盗狗对家有宠物的中国人来说，是令人伤心的社会现实，而那些遭窃的狗常以食用目的出售。不过，周一在北京发生的一起7岁的黑色拉布拉多犬被抢案，引起了反常的轩然大波。
The dog, Qiaoqiao, is no average pet. She was trained as a guide dog and has spent the past six years as a companion to Tian Fengbo, a 47-year-old blind man who lives in a village on the outskirts of the Chinese capital.
这只名叫乔乔的狗可不是寻常宠物，她是受过训练的导盲犬，过去六年来都陪伴在主人田凤波身边。田先生是一位47岁的盲人，住在北京市郊的一个村子里。
Mr. Tian has worked as a masseur, a common occupation for blind people in China, and now operates a massage parlor chain. He had left Qiaoqiao at one of his outlets overnight. An assistant was walking the dog Monday morning when men in a gray van stole her. Neighbors told The Beijing Morning News that the village had had a rash of dog thefts in recent days.
田凤波是按摩师，这对中国的盲人来说是很普遍的职业，他现在经营着一家连锁按摩店。窃案发生前，他把乔乔留在其中一间店面过夜。周一早上，田先生的一位助理带乔乔去散步的时候，一辆灰色面包车上的人把她抢走。邻居告诉《北京晨报》的记者，这个村子近期已发生过面包车急停窃狗事件。
Mr. Tian said he had barely eaten or slept since his companion was taken.
田凤波说，自从狗被抢走后，他吃不下也睡不好。
“I lost my sight in an accident and have been through many difficulties. But now that Qiaoqiao is gone, I feel like there is something very heavy blocking my chest,” Mr. Tian said. “Qiaoqiao always accompanied me. She was like a friend to me. Now I feel like I’ve lost a close friend.”
“我是因为发生意外才丧失了视力，过了很多苦日子。现在乔乔不见了，我胸口好像有块大石头似的，”田凤波说。“乔乔总是陪着我，像朋友一样。现在我感觉像是失去了一位亲密好友。”
He said he remained optimistic that the police would find the dog, since security cameras in his village had recorded the van that carried Qiaoqiao away. The license plate was from neighboring Hebei Province, although he said the number was unclear.
田凤波说他还是保持乐观，觉得警察会把狗找回来，因为村里的安全监视器已经录下了带走乔乔的面包车影像。这辆车的牌照来自邻近的河北省，虽然车牌号码显示得并不清楚。
Qiaoqiao is one of about 10 registered guide dogs in Beijing, a city of more than 20 million, and one of about 100 in the entire country, according to officials at China’s main guide-dog training center in the coastal city of Dalian.
乔乔是北京登记在案的10条导盲犬之一，而这个城市有超过2000万人口。在大连的中国导盲犬主要培训基地，工作人员表示，导盲犬在全国的数量还不到100只。
The lack of service animals is part of China’s mixed record of improving the lives of its disabled citizens. Deng Pufang brought a new focus to long-overlooked needs.
中国改进其残障公民生活的成绩优劣参半，为残障者服务的动物的匮乏就是这种情况的部分体现。不过该国在某些方面已有所进展。面对残疾人的需求长期遭到忽视的情况，邓朴方重新唤起了人们的关注。
But advocates say many barriers persist. Disabled people face discrimination in education and employment, and Chinese cities are far from fully accessible. Some aids are obvious, like the textured paving strips for visually impaired people that line most sidewalks in major cities. But many buildings still lack wheelchair ramps, and guide dogs are often unwelcome in public places.
但倡导人士表示，中国仍有许多难以改变的阻碍。残疾者在教育与就业上仍受到歧视，且各城市在无障碍空间方面还大有可以改进之处。有些辅助设施是显而易见的，如中国主要城市的大部分人行道上都铺有导盲砖。不过很多建筑物仍缺乏轮椅用斜坡，公共场合通常也不欢迎导盲犬。
Disability advocates saw the 2008 Paralympics in Beijing as a breakthrough. As with the Summer Olympics that proceeded it, China went to great lengths to prepare for the event. Street-level pedestrian crossings were built to offer alternatives to underpasses with lengthy stairways. The Forbidden City underwent expensive renovations to allow wheelchair access. And service animals were given a rare moment of attention after Ping Yali, a blind long-jumper and China’s first Paralympic gold medalist, carried the torch into the opening ceremony alongside her guide dog, Lucky.
残障维权人士认为，2008年的北京残奥会是一次突破。一如北京在当年早些时候举办的夏季奥运会那样，中国为那次残奥会做了很多准备工作。政府铺设了许多位于街道上的行人穿越道，让人除了爬阶梯走地下道之外，还有别的选择。紫禁城也进行了昂贵的改建工程好让轮椅通行。在中国第一位残奥会金牌得主、跳远选手平亚丽带着她的导盲犬“Lucky”于开幕仪式上传递圣火之后，服务类动物也获得了罕见的关注。
Lucky was Beijing’s first guide dog, and Ms. Ping was a vocal advocate. She spoke of the barriers she experienced in Beijing, where large dogs are banned in the city center. The police made an exception for Lucky in 2007 but allowed Ms. Ping to go out with the dog only if she were accompanied by a sighted person.
Lucky是北京第一只导盲犬，其主人平亚丽是一位畅所欲言的倡导人士。她说起了自己在北京经历到的障碍。北京禁止大型犬进入市中心。警方2007年为Lucky破了例，允许平亚丽带着它出门，但条件是要在有视力的人的陪同下。
China enacted a law to permit guide dogs in public places in 2012, but its enforcement has been spotty. In 2013, Liu Hongquan, a blind singer who was scheduled to perform at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, was barred from entering the campus with his guide dog.
中国2012年通过了一项法律，允许导盲犬出入公共场所，但其实施效果并不全面。2013年，盲人歌手刘红权原定在北京的中央音乐学院表演，却因携带导盲犬而被禁止进入该校。
Liang Jia, who works at the Dalian China Guide Dog Training Center, said that acceptance of the dogs had grown in recent years. In addition to the 100 dogs now working around the country, the center is training 80 more, with 20 puppies expected to soon join them.
中国导盲犬大连培训基地的工作人员梁佳称，近年来，外界对导盲犬的接受程度有所提高。除正在全国各地服务的100只导盲犬外，该基地目前正在培训的导盲犬有80只，预计很快还会有20只小狗加入其中。
For now the center’s focus is on one alumna, Ms. Liang said. Qiaoqiao’s former trainers fear that she might be killed. At the very least, she will suffer from being separated from Mr. Tian.
梁佳表示，目前基地很关注曾在那里接受培训的乔乔。训练过乔乔的工作人员害怕它可能会没命。至少它会因为和田凤波分开而受影响。
“She will definitely be anxious,” Ms. Liang said. “Guide dogs are different from ordinary dogs. They are with their owners almost 24-7, so they have a deeper attachment.”
“它肯定会感到焦虑，”梁佳说。“导盲犬和普通的狗不一样。它们几乎是一周七天，一天24小时都和主人在一起，所以感情也更深。”