In the 1939 George Cukor classic, “The Women,” Crystal Allen is the ultimate spritzer girl. A perfume vendor by any other name, as portrayed by Joan Crawford she’s a mantrap in a black sheath and pearls, as fetching a commodity as the amber-tinted potions that she sells.
琼·克劳馥(Joan Crawford)在乔治·丘克(George Cukor)1939年执导的经典影片《女人们》(The Women)中饰演顶级汽酒女孩（又称香水女郎）克丽丝特尔·艾伦(Crystal Allen)。她穿着黑色紧身连衣裙，戴着珍珠项链，和自己销售的琥珀色饮料一样，她也是一个迷人的商品。
Cukor cast his sales clerk in a hard-edge mold. Yet as an archetype, the shopgirl of pop culture lore persists, turning up this holiday season in a spate of films, in variations that are gentler, kinder, and less predatory than her celluloid progenitors but adventurous just the same — spirited and often chic, heroines for a modern age.
丘克以真实客观的手法刻画片中的店员。不过，作为一种经典角色，流行文化中导购小姐的传说一直在流传，再次出现在这个圣诞季的一系列影片中，她们比胶片电影时代的前辈们更加温和友好，不那么咄咄逼人，不过她们同样富有进取心——充满活力，时髦，是现代生活的主人公。
In “Carol,” the Todd Haynes melodrama based on a Patricia Highsmith novel, Therese Belivet (Rooney Mara) toils at a department store counter, solemnly conventional in a gray jumper and sweater.
情节片《卡罗尔》(Carol)由托德·海恩斯(Todd Haynes)导演，改编自帕特丽夏·海史密斯(Patricia Highsmith)的小说。鲁妮·玛拉(Rooney Mara)在片中饰演在商场柜台辛苦工作的特蕾莎·贝利弗(Therese Belivet)，她穿着庄重传统的灰色无袖连衣裙和毛衣。
“I don’t think she cares much about being a shop assistant at all, and she doesn’t care much what she wears,” said Sandy Powell, who created the film’s wardrobe, underpinning Therese’s sad little pinafore with equally nondescript sweaters.
桑迪·鲍威尔(Sandy Powell)是该片的服装设计师，她给特蕾莎设计的是可怜的无袖小连衣裙和同样普通的毛衣。她说：“我觉得她根本不是十分在乎当导购，也不在乎自己穿什么。”
Ms. Mara’s shopgirl knows her place and seems not to give it much thought, that is, until she encounters Carol (Cate Blanchett), a blond Venus who offers her passage to a wider, more opulent world.
玛拉饰演的女导购知道自己的地位，似乎没有考虑太多，直到她遇见卡罗尔（Carol，凯特·布兰切特[Cate Blanchett]饰），这位金发维纳斯给她指出了通向更广阔更富裕的世界的道路。
Carol is eye-catching all right, making her indelible entrance in a pale fur coat and saucy red hat, her look a sophisticated and tantalizing contrast to Therese’s carelessly assembled schoolgirl turnout.
卡罗尔非常引人注目，令人难以忘怀。她出场时身穿浅色皮草大衣，头戴俏丽的红帽子，看起来精致迷人，与特蕾莎漫不经心的女学生造型形成鲜明对比。
Small wonder Therese can’t look away; it’s as if she had sighted a beautiful alien.
难怪特蕾莎无法把目光从卡罗尔身上移开，她像是看见了一位美丽的外国人。
“She’s in awe,” Ms. Powell said. “Her reaction is: ‘Oh, my God, she’s gorgeous. Who is she? Where did she come from?’”
鲍威尔说：“她感到敬畏。她的反应是：‘哦，我的天哪，她美极了。她是谁？她从哪儿来？’”
As Eilis, the young Irish immigrant of “Brooklyn,” Saoirse Ronan is drab in her Peter Pan collars and timid to a fault. Yet she becomes a faultlessly groomed vendeuse. In a trim cardigan and crisp white shirt, she is as much at ease with her customers as she is in a fetching new wardrobe.
西尔莎·罗南(Saoirse Ronan)在《布鲁克林》(Brooklyn)中饰演年轻的爱尔兰移民艾莉(Eilis)。她穿着暗淡的娃娃领衣服，唯恐逾矩半分。不过后来，她变成了一位打扮得无可挑剔的导购女郎。她穿上修身开襟毛衣和纯白衬衫，和顾客打交道时，就像在一个迷人新衣橱里一样自在。
Then there’s Lili Elbe (Eddie Redmayne), the transgender heroine of “The Danish Girl,” in a rustling silk suit, ruffles cascading from its collar, trading shoptalk with peers and beauty secrets with clients.
还有《丹麦女孩》(The Danish Girl)中的变性女主人公莉莉·埃尔布（Lili Elbe，埃迪·雷德梅因[Eddie Redmayne]饰），她穿着沙沙作响的丝绸套装，褶饰从衣领往下延伸。她与同事们交流经验，与顾客分享美容秘诀。
Like their earlier counterparts, the shop assistants of the current cinema share an eagerness to please, their coy smiles, gestures and dawning fashion sense accompanying transactions as emotional as they are material.
和前辈们一样，当代影片中的女导购也同样渴望取悦顾客，她们露出腼腆的微笑，做出亲切的姿态，微微展露自己的时尚感，这些既是伴随导购过程的情绪，也具有实际的营销效果。
Equipped with reserves of taste and apparent good will, they offer style, expertise and friendly banter, tossing into the bargain, when it suits them, a bit of themselves.
她们带着优雅的品味和明显的善意，在导购过程中提供时尚和专业知识，与顾客友好地谈笑，必要的时候，把自己也奉献出去。
The shopgirl-as-commodity seems an apt conceit for a consumption-driven society, with roots dating to the early 19th century, and the rise of the modern department store, a pleasure palace teeming with temptations, not least the lowly sales assistant.
对以消费为驱动力的社会来说，“女导购就是商品”似乎是一种恰当的观念，这种观念可以追溯到19世纪早期现代商场兴起之时。商场是一个充满诱惑的乐园，恭顺的导购是它吸引人的一个重要原因。
Émile Zola sketched the type optimistically in “Au Bonheur des Dames,” his story of department store life in 1860s Paris. The tale, and a 1943 film it inspired, turns in part on the fate of Denise Baudu, the little clerk from the country, whose unassailable virtue wins the day and, with it, the heart of her department-store-magnate employer.
埃米尔·佐拉(Émile Zola)在《妇女乐园》(Au Bonheur des Dames)中乐观地描绘了他眼中19世纪60年代巴黎的商场生活。1943年，这部小说被改编成电影，它部分讲述乡下来的小店员丹尼丝·博迪(Denise Baudu)的命运。她凭借不可动摇的美德赢得了胜利，也赢得了商场老板的心。
A flurry of Gilded Age musical comedies picked up the theme, inviting spectators to commiserate with the shopgirl (perceived in an earlier era as little better than a prostitute) and cheer her elevation as the heroine of her own compelling drama.
镀金时代(Gilded Age)有多部音乐喜剧阐释这一主题，期待观众同情这位女店员（那时候，人们觉得女店员的地位仅比妓女高一点），庆贺她成为一个令人激动的故事的女主人公。
In those popular musicals of London’s West End, the young heroine manages against all odds to cling to her integrity as she climbs the social ladder.
在伦敦西区剧院(London’s West End)的那些热门音乐剧中，这位年轻的女主人公克服重重困难，在努力提高自己社会地位的同时坚守自己的诚信。
A similar scenario was played out in more recent times. Mirabelle (Claire Danes), the wan glove saleswoman in the 2005 movie “Shopgirl,” based on the Steve Martin novel of the same name, can scarcely scrape together her rent.
类似的情节在近些年的一些影片中也有出现。2005年影片《导购女郎》(Shopgirl)是根据史蒂文·马丁(Steve Martin)的同名小说改编的。克莱尔·丹尼斯(Claire Danes)在片中饰演憔悴的手套导购米拉贝尔(Mirabelle)，她只能勉强糊口。
Then she meets Ray Porter (Mr. Martin), the oh-so-wrong Mr. Right, who presents her with a pair of gloves she could never have afforded to buy for herself, attractively packaged with a dinner invitation. What struggling young woman could resist?
然后，她遇见了雷·波特（Ray Porter，马丁饰），他就像完美的白马王子，只是他们的境遇有天壤之别。他送给她一幅手套，这样的手套她自己是肯定买不起的，还邀请她共进晚餐。一位勉强糊口的年轻女子怎么可能抵挡这样的诱惑？
Something more is on offer in the latest films. In addition to the promise of love for sale, there is the vision of infinite perfectibility: the clerk’s as much as the client’s.
最近的一些关于导购小姐的影片传递出更丰富的主题。除了对爱情的向往，还有对无限完美的追求：既包括顾客的也包括导购员自己的追求。
Then as now, the sales assistant had at her disposal an arsenal of props, tools for seduction and stealthy self-improvement. They were weapons, in fact, something like those of the saucy little heroine of “The Shop Girl,” a musical comedy set and produced in turn-of-the-century London. Onstage, she trills about “how a dear little girl makes up” for men.
现在，导购小姐们拥有各种诱惑工具和手段，也懂得悄悄提升自己。实际上，她们本身是武器，就像以21世纪初伦敦为背景（也是那时上演的）的音乐喜剧《导购小姐》(The Shop Girl)中那位俏丽的小姑娘。她在舞台上用颤抖的声音讲述“一个可爱的小姑娘如何”为男人“打扮自己”。
“A touch of rouge that is,” she sings, and “just a touch and black in the eye, but not too much.”
她唱道，“一点胭脂，就一点，再加一点黑色眼影，不要太多。”
A similarly calculated understatement was mandated at the 20th-century department store. In the 1920s setting of “The Danish Girl,” sales assistants commonly wore uniforms, typically a black silk frock trimmed at the throat with a wisp of white lace. The objective, said Paco Delgado, who created that movie’s costumes, was “to look like a maid or a well-dressed servant,” but with upscale aspirations.
20世纪的商场也有类似的具体的仪容要求。在以20世纪20年代为背景的《丹麦女孩》中，导购小姐们通常身穿黑色丝绸连衣裙制服，领口有一圈白色蕾丝。这部电影的服装设计师帕科·德尔加多(Paco Delgado)说，目的是让她们“看起来像”有着远大志向的“女仆或着装精致的服务员”。
In the absence of a uniform, a dark suit or dress was required, Mr. Delgado said, “meant to convey a hint of luxury and hold up a mirror to the customer, without overshadowing her.”
德尔加多说，如果不穿制服，那就要穿深色套装或连衣裙，“目的是传递出奢华的感觉，相当于给顾客提供一面镜子，但不会掩盖顾客的光彩”。
Not that such store-imposed constraints mattered. The shopgirls of earlier eras, and of current films, are likely to have reveled in their newfound sense of chic. But there was an emotional payoff as well.
商店的这些要求并不重要。早年和目前电影中的导购小姐很可能都非常享受自己新发现的时尚感。不过她也得到了情感回报。
In “Carol,” Therese gets a glimpse of life that’s beyond her station, her own style evolving as the courtship picks up steam.
在《卡罗尔》中，特蕾莎得以窥见超越自己地位的生活，随着求爱的逐渐升温，她自己的着装品味也在不断提高。
Eilis in “Brooklyn” trades in her self-effacing shirtwaists for a suit, her stylish turnout reflecting a growing self-assurance.
《布鲁克林》中的艾莉脱下朴素的仿男士女衬衫，换上套装，她着装风格的转变反应出不断增长的自信。
And Lili, a model of coquettish femininity in “The Danish Girl,” derives her real satisfaction, and something approaching self-realization, from other facets of her job.
《丹麦女孩》中妖艳的模特莉莉(Lili)在工作的其他层面获得了真正的满足，或者说获得了一种接近自我实现的感觉。
The department store scenes in “The Danish Girl” are key, said the director Tom Hooper, “because they show Lili being accepted as a woman by other women.”
《丹麦女孩》的导演汤姆·胡珀(Tom Hooper)说，商场的那些戏很重要，“因为那些情节表明，莉莉的女性身份被其他女人接受了”。
True, she is positively aflutter in her new black silk dress and tidy bob. But what we see most of all, Mr. Hooper said, “is the joy that her authentic self brings.”
的确，在穿上新的黑色丝绸连衣裙，发型换成整洁的波波头之后，她非常激动。不过，胡珀说，最重要的是我们看到了“她真正的自我所带来的喜悦”。