BERLIN — Not since 1945, when the Allies both banned the dubious work and awarded the rights to the state of Bavaria, has Hitler’s manifesto, “Mein Kampf,” been officially published in German.
柏林——1945年，同盟国把希特勒的宣言《我的奋斗》(Mein Kampf)列为禁书，同时又将其版权授予了巴伐利亚州，自那之后，该书就没有在德国正式出版过。
Bavaria had refused to release it. But under German law, its copyright expires on Dec. 31, the 70th year after the author’s death.
巴伐利亚之前拒绝发行《我的奋斗》。但是根据德国法律，其版权将在今年12月31日、作者死亡70年后到期。
That allows a team of historians from a noted center for the study of Nazism, the Institute for Contemporary History in Munich, to publish their new two-volume, 2,000-page edition, a three-year labor complete with about 3,500 academic annotations.
因此，在著名的纳粹研究中心慕尼黑当代史研究所(Institute for Contemporary History in Munich)，一个历史学家团队将能发行自己的新版《我的奋斗》。这是一套两卷本，共2000页，含有约3500条学术注解，团队为此付出了三年的努力。
The intention is to set the work in historical context, to show how Hitler wove truth with half-truth and outright lie, and thus to defang any propagandistic effect while revealing Nazism.
该项目意在把《我的奋斗》放在历史背景中，展现希特勒如何把真相、半真半假的内容和弥天大谎糅合在一起，以便在揭示纳粹的同时，不会产生任何宣传效果。
“This is really one of the best relics we have of the Third Reich,” said Christian Hartmann, the historian who led the five-person team on the project and unveiled the work to journalists on Tuesday. He compared it to Hitler’s lair at Obersalzberg in the Alps, which two million visitors a year now view, passing first through an exhibit on Nazism designed by the institute.
“这的确是我们拥有的第三帝国的最佳遗迹之一，”历史学家克里斯蒂安·哈特曼(Christian Hartmann)说。他是该项目五人团队的领导者，本周二向记者公布了这项工作。他将其类与希特勒在阿尔卑斯山上萨尔兹堡的老巢相提并论，那里现在每年有200万游客前去观光，最初就是通过该研究院设计的一个纳粹展览引起兴趣的。
In recent years, Germans have become more at ease with public mention of Hitler, even reintroducing him in popular culture, from the 2004 movie “Downfall” to a newly filmed version of the best-selling comic novel “Look Who’s Back.”
近年来，德国人对于公开提及希特勒变得更加放松，从2004年拍摄了电影《帝国的毁灭》(Downfall)到畅销漫画小说《看看谁回来了》(Look Who’s Back)新拍的电影版，德国人甚至还把他重新引入到流行文化中。
The new edition of the Führer’s two-volume work — a combination of memoir, party program, anti-Semitic rant and exposé on how to gain power — certainly would not be a conventional publishing sensation.
“元首”的两卷作品融合了回忆录、纳粹纲领、反犹太言论，以及权力获取秘籍，它的推出肯定不会是一般意义上的出版盛事。
Mr. Hartmann and the institute’s director, Andreas Wirsching, said it was not clear whether the first run of about 3,500 to 4,000 copies would sell, either modestly or extraordinarily well, when it appears in January.
哈特曼和该研究所所长安德烈亚斯·维尔辛(Andreas Wirsching)说，新版本首批印量为3500到4000册，明年1月发售，目前还不清楚它会销量平平还是异常畅销。
“Mein Kampf,” whose two volumes appeared first in 1925 and 1927, was started while Hitler was jailed for trying to gain power in a putsch in November 1923. Accordingly, it is a hodgepodge of personal memory and justification of failure, a collation of maudlin nationalism and serious literature, woven into a tract that shows in part how Hitler forged his National Socialist creed and, over time, the first popular mass party of 20th-century Germany, the two men said.
《我的奋斗》两卷本首次面世是在1925年和1927年。希特勒试图在1923年11月的政变中夺权，结果身陷囹圄，在狱中时开始了这本书的写作，因此两人说，它是一本交织着个人记忆和对失败的辩护，会聚了伤感的民族主义和严肃文学的小册子，其中部分展示了希特勒如何打造自己的国家社会主义的信念，以及如何随着时间的推移，建立了20世纪德国第一个人气高涨的大众党派。
The book has a special layout, with Hitler’s original text on the upper right page of a two-page spread, coupled with small notes on grammatical and other variations between editions published during Hitler’s lifetime and, on the left-hand page, larger comments giving historical or other context.
本书采用了特殊的版面，在一个双页跨版的右上方是希特勒的原文，用小字标注了文法以及希特勒生前出版的各版本的差异，左侧页面上是大字评论，提供了历史和其他背景。
The result is systematic and dense, and requires close attention. “We wanted literally to surround Hitler with our comments,” Mr. Hartmann said.
效果显得很系统、很密集，需要你注目凝神。“我们希望真的用我们的评论去包围希特勒，”哈特曼说。
The two-volume edition will sell for 59 euros, or about $63, with more than 200 orders to date, Mr. Wirsching and Mr. Hartmann said. There will be no special school edition, although “every intelligent history teacher can work with our comments,” Mr. Hartmann said. He said that there would be no e-book but that discussions to make the work available online are continuing.
维尔辛和哈特曼表示，两卷本售价59欧元，迄今为止已有200多份订单。哈特曼说，不会出特别的学校版，但“每个聪明的历史老师都能用我们的评论上课”。他表示，不会推出电子书，不过有关让读者能在网上阅读的讨论仍在继续。
Mr. Hartmann noted that he had worked on an earlier volume of Hitler’s speeches from the mid-1920s into the 1930s. “The public interest was almost zero,” he noted with a smile.
哈特曼指出，他早前编撰过一卷希特勒的讲话集，收录了希特勒从20年代中期一直到30年代的讲话。“公众的兴趣几乎为零，”他微笑着说。
Sven-Felix Kellerhoff, a historian and senior editor at the daily Die Welt, argued that “Mein Kampf” elicits a special fascination mostly because of the ban imposed in 1945 by the Allies and extended ever since by Bavaria.
历史学家、《世界报》(Die Welt)高级编辑斯文-费利克斯·克勒霍夫(Sven-Felix Kellerhoff)表示，《我的奋斗》引发特别关注主要是因为那道禁令。禁令由同盟国在1945年实行，后被巴伐利亚州延长。
“The problem with ‘Mein Kampf’ is that everyone knows the title but nothing of the book itself,” Mr. Kellerhoff said in an interview. “The myth is that it is banned, and so dangerous that the German public cannot be trusted with it.”
“《我的奋斗》的问题是，人人都知道书名，但不知道这本书本身的内容，”克勒霍夫受访时说。“神秘的是它成了禁书，有人认为它太危险，不能让德国公众看。”
“The false policy of Bavaria gave rise to this myth,” he added, arguing that Bavaria should have lifted the ban at the very latest by the 1980s or 1990s, when a whole generation had grown up without Nazism.
“巴伐利亚州的错误政策造成了这种神秘，”他接着说，并表示巴伐利亚州最迟在八九十年代就应该取消禁令。那时，一整代没受纳粹主义影响的人已经长大成人了。
Mr. Kellerhoff has just published his own book, “Mein Kampf: The Career of a German Book,” which runs just under 370 pages and traces the history of Hitler’s work.
克勒霍夫刚出版了自己的著作《我的奋斗：一本德语书的命运》(Mein Kampf: The Career of a German Book)。这本书不到370页，追溯了希特勒那本书的历史。
“Mein Kampf” is available online, and printed copies can be obtained at antique shops or markets, particularly in countries bordering Germany. During Nazi rule, from 1933 to 1945, it was translated into 18 languages and sold more than 12 million copies. Many of them were distributed by the Nazis to, say, newlyweds.
《我的奋斗》能在网上找到，在古玩店或古玩市场，特别是在与德国接壤的国家，也能找到印刷版。在1933年到1945年的纳粹统治时期，该书被译成了18种语言，卖出了1200多万本。其中很多是纳粹分发给新婚夫妇之类的人的。
Both Mr. Wirsching and Mr. Hartmann said the project had been discussed at length with several interlocutors abroad, particularly at Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial in Israel. Most of them have approved of the idea, which both depicted at least in part as honoring Hitler’s victims.
维尔辛和哈特曼表示曾和许多海外人士就该项目进行过详细讨论，特别是在以色列大屠杀纪念馆。大部分人同意了这个想法。它至少在一定程度上是对希特勒的受害者的描述，也是对他们的纪念。
Charlotte Knobloch, 83, who grew up in Munich, witnessed the 1938 killing and persecution of Jews and destruction of Jewish synagogues and businesses there. She is now a Jewish leader in the city, the Bavarian capital.
83岁的夏洛特·克诺布洛赫(Charlotte Knobloch)在慕尼黑长大。她亲眼目睹了1938年慕尼黑的犹太人被屠杀、迫害，犹太会堂和企业被毁。现在她是巴伐利亚州首府慕尼黑的一名犹太领袖。
A spokesman who answered the telephone on Tuesday referred to a statement he said she had permitted him to issue. It characterized “Mein Kampf” as a “disgusting incitement to hatred and the basis of the Holocaust.” Thus, it added, the original text deserves neither discussion nor acknowledgment today.
周二接听电话的一名发言人让记者参考一份克诺布洛赫授权他发布的声明。声明称《我的奋斗》是在“煽动仇恨，令人作呕，是大屠杀的基础”。声明称，因此原文在今天既不值得讨论，也不必承认它的存在。