Three years ago, Clintondale High School, just north of Detroit, became a “flipped school” — one where students watch teachers’ lectures at home and do what we’d otherwise call “homework” in class. Teachers record video lessons, which students watch on their smartphones, home computers or at lunch in the school’s tech lab. In class, they do projects, exercises or lab experiments in small groups while the teacher circulates.
三年前，位于底特律正北面的克林顿戴尔高中(Clintondale High School)转变成为一所“翻转学校”(flipped school)——学生在家观看教师讲课，在课堂上做我们通常所称的“家庭作业”。教师在学校的科技实验室录制视频课程，让学生在他们的智能手机、家庭电脑上或午餐期间观看。在课堂上，学生分成小组做项目、练习或实验，老师则穿梭于学生之间，提供有的放矢的指导。
Clintondale was the first school in the United States to flip completely — all of its classes are now taught this way. Now flipped classrooms are popping up all over. Havana High School outside of Peoria, Ill., is flipping, too, after the school superintendent visited Clintondale. The principal of Clintondale says that some 200 school officials have visited.
克林顿戴尔高中是美国第一所全面推行翻转课堂的学校——这所学校的每一节课都在采用这种授课方式。现在，全美各地如雨后春笋般涌现出许多翻转课堂。在学区总监参观了克林顿戴尔高中之后，位于伊利诺伊州皮奥里亚市郊外的哈瓦那高中(Havana High School)也开始推行翻转课堂。据克林顿戴尔高中校长透露，已有大约200位学校官员来该校参观考察。
It’s well known by now that online education is booming. You can study any subject free in a MOOC — a massive open online course — from single-digit addition to the history of Chinese architecture to flight vehicle aerodynamics. Courses are being offered by universities like Harvard and M.I.T. and by the teenager next door making videos in his garage. Among the best-known sources are the Khan Academy, Coursera and Udacity. But while online courses can make high-quality education available to anyone for the price of an Internet connection, they also have the potential to displace humans, with all that implies for teachers and students.
众所周知，在线教育正在蓬勃发展。你可以在一个大规模开放式在线课程(MOOC)上免费学习任何科目，从个位数加法到中国建筑史，再到飞行器空气动力学，不一而足。现有课程的提供者既有哈佛大学(Harvard)和麻省理工学院(MIT)等名校，也包括某个正在车库中制作视频的邻家少年。其中最知名者当属可汗学院(Khan Academy)、课程时代(Coursera)和Udacity。尽管任何人只需连接互联网，就可享受在线课程提供的高品质教育，但这种课程也有可能取代人的工作，从而对教师和学生带来深远影响。
Like everything disruptive, online education is highly controversial. But the flipped classroom is a strategy that nearly everyone agrees on. “It’s the only thing I write about as having broad positive agreement,” said Justin Reich, a fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard who studies technology and education.
如同一切颠覆性事物，在线教育备受争议。但翻转课堂是一项几乎受到所有人认同的战略。“这是我撰写的唯一一个受到广泛好评的主题，”供职于哈佛大学伯克曼互联网与社会研究中心(Berkman Center for Internet and Society)，以研究技术和教育而著称的学者贾斯汀·里奇(Justin Reich)说。
Flipping is still in the early stages, with much experimentation about how to do it right. Its most important popularizers are not government officials or academic experts, but Aaron Sams and Jonathan Bergmann, a pair of high school chemistry teachers in Woodland Park, Colo., who wrote a book called “Flip Your Classroom: Reach Every Student in Every Class Every Day,” drawing almost completely on their own experience. It hasn’t been rigorously studied (most people cite only this one research paper.) Flipping’s track record in schools, while impressive, is anecdotal and short. But many people are holding it up as a potential model of how to use technology to humanize the classroom.
翻转课堂仍处于早期阶段，大量旨在探求矫正授课方式的实验依然在进行中。其最重要的推广者既不是政府官员，也不是学术专家，而是科罗拉多州森林公园市的两位高中化学老师：亚伦·萨姆斯(Aaron Sams)和乔纳森·伯格曼(Jonathan Bergmann)。他们二人几乎完全凭借自身的经验，撰写了一本名为《翻转你的课堂：如何在每一天的每一节课上触及每一位学生》(Flip Your Classroom: Reach Every Student in Every Class Every Day)的著作。这本书并非严格意义上的学术成果（大多数人只引用另一篇论文）。翻转课堂在学校的绩效记录，虽然令人印象深刻，但轶事多多，而且时间短暂。然而，许多人正在将其推崇为一种应用技术手段让课堂变得人性化的潜在模式。
No school has taken flipping as far as Clintondale. It began because Greg Green, the principal, had been recording videos on baseball techniques and posting them on YouTube for his 11-year-old son’s team. Recording the content allowed kids to watch the videos repeatedly to grasp the ideas, and left more time for hands-on work at practices.
没有哪所学校能够企及克林顿戴尔高中应用翻转课堂的深度。其起因是，该校校长格雷格·格林(Greg Green)此前一直在为他11岁儿子的球队录制传授棒球技巧的视频，并将其发布在YouTube上。这样做不仅可以让孩子们反复观看视频以掌握动作要领，还给他们留下了更多实战演练的时间。
It gave him an idea, and in the spring of 2010, he set up an experiment: He had a social studies teacher, Andy Scheel, run two classes with identical material and assignments, but one was flipped. The flipped class had many students who had already failed the class — some multiple times.
这件事让他萌生了一个想法。2010年春天，格林创建了一个实验项目：他安排社会学科老师安迪·谢尔(Andy Scheel)使用相同的教材和作业带两个班，但其中一个班采用翻转课堂形式。这个班有许多考试不及格的学生——一些学生在多次考试中都未达标。
After 20 weeks, Green said, Scheel’s flipped students, despite their disadvantages, were outperforming the students in the traditional classroom. No student in the flipped class received a grade lower than a C+. The previous semester 13 percent had failed. This semester, none did. In the traditional classroom, there was no change in achievement.
格林说，20周后，尽管谢尔的翻转班处于弱势，但他们的成绩正在超越另一个接受传统教育的班级。在翻转班，没有一个学生的成绩低于C+。上个学期，13%的学生不及格，但在这个学期，所有学生都通过了考试。而传统教育班的学生成绩几乎没有任何变化。
Green drove to Okemos, outside Lansing, to meet with TechSmith, a company that made the screen capture software he used for his baseball videos. “I want to do an entire school,” he said. They said that no one had ever done an entire school.
格林驱车前往密执根州首府兰辛市之外的奥克莫斯社区，拜会了TechSmith公司负责人——他制作棒球视频时使用过该公司出品的抓屏软件。他说：“我打算在全校推行翻转课堂。”没有一个人曾经这样做过，他们指出。
“We have nothing to lose,” Green said.
“我们没有什么可失去的，”格林说。
It was true. The school had been designated as among the worst 5 percent in Michigan. That year, more than half of ninth graders had failed science, and almost had half failed math. Using TechSmith’s software — donated by the company — to make videos, Clintondale’s ninth-grade teachers flipped their classes.
的确如此。这所学校当时被归入密歇根州最差的5%学校之列。这一年，一半以上的九年级学生未通过科学课考试，差不多一半学生的数学成绩不及格。随后，克林顿戴尔高中的九年级教师使用TechSmith公司捐赠的软件制作视频，开始翻转他们的课堂。
The results were dramatic: the failure rate in English dropped from 52 percent to 19 percent; in math, it dropped from 44 percent to 13 percent; in science, from 41 percent to 19 percent; and in social studies, from 28 percent to 9 percent.
结果是戏剧性的：英语的不及格率从52%下降至19%；数学的不及格率从44%下降至13%；科学课的不及格率从41%下降至19%；社会学科的不及格率从28%下降至9%。
The next year, in the fall of 2011, Clintondale flipped completely — every grade, every class. “On average we approximated a 30 percent failure rate,” said Green. “With flipping, it dropped to under 10 percent.” Graduation rates rose dramatically, and are now over 90 percent. College attendance went from 63 percent in 2010 to 80 percent in 2012.
第二年（即2011年）秋季，克林顿戴尔高中开始全面实施翻转课堂，将其推行至每个年级，每一节课。“平均来说，我们学校的不及格率接近30%，”格林说。“随着翻转课堂的实施，不及格率下降至10%以下。”学生的毕业率也急剧上升，现已超过90%。大学入学率从2010年的63%，上升至2012年的80%。
Results on standardized tests have fluctuated; they went up in 2012 and then dropped. But state education officials note that last year Clintondale had a large influx of students from Detroit, many of them from low income families (standardized test scores of poorer students tend to be lower). Three years ago 64 percent of Clintondale students were low income, and now 81 percent are. Also due to an accounting quirk, some high-achieving students had their most recent test scores counted as part of a school consortium, and not as part of Clintondale.
学生的标准化考试成绩则起伏不定，2012年有所上升，随后又下降。但州教育官员指出，克林顿戴尔高中去年涌入了一大批来自底特律的学生，其中许多都出身于低收入家庭（低收入学生的标准化考试成绩往往要低一些）。三年前，64%的学生来自低收入家庭，目前的比率是81%。此外，由于某种古怪的核算方式，一些好学生最近几次的考试成绩被纳入一个学校联合体，而没有被算作克林顿戴尔高中的绩效。
Flipping a classroom changes several things. One is what students do at home. At first, teachers assigned 20-minute videos, but they now make them shorter — six minutes, even three minutes. That promotes re-watching. The school also uses audio files and readings as homework, and uses videos from the Khan Academy, TED and other sources. Many students do not ask questions in class, worried they will look dumb. But they can watch a video over and over without fear.
翻转课堂改变了一些事情。其一是学生在家中的行为。起初，老师布置了20分钟的视频，但他们现在把视频时长缩短至6分钟，甚至3分钟，以推动学生重复观看。这所学校也使用音频文件和文本作为家庭作业，并利用来自可汗学院、TED和其他来源的视频。许多学生由于害怕被其他人视为傻瓜而不愿意在课堂上提问。但他们可以毫无惧色地反复观看视频。
Jahya Dunbar, a junior, said her mother watches math videos with her. “She likes the idea of the technology,” she said. “When I ask questions, she can understand it.”
高二学生贾亚·邓巴(Jahya Dunbar)说，妈妈陪她一起观看数学视频。她说：“妈妈喜欢这种技术创意，并且能够理解我提出的问题。”
“Whenever I had a problem on the homework, I couldn’t do anything about it at home,” said Luwayne Harris, a senior. “Now if I have a problem with a video, I can just rewind and watch it over and over again.”
“过去在家做作业时，每每碰到一个问题，我只能干着急，一点办法都没有，”高三学生卢瓦尼·哈里斯(Luwayne Harris)说。“现在，如果观看视频时有什么不懂的地方，我只需倒回，一遍遍地观看就可以了。”
Especially in low-income communities, some students don’t have access to the tech they need to watch videos. Students I talked to said that about 10 percent don’t — but they easily watch at school. Just because students can watch, of course, doesn’t mean they do watch. (See the discussion page here for teachers’ advice on getting students to do homework.)
一些学生不具备观看视频的技术条件，低收入社区尤为如此。受访学生表示，大约10%的学生无法在家观看，但在学校很方便。当然，仅仅因为学生可以观看并不意味着他们会观看（请点击讨论页面，浏览教师就如何督促学生做功课提出的建议）。
Robert Townsend, who teaches ninth-grade physical science, gives students a week to watch a package of videos and requires students to do brief online quizzes about the videos or take notes to show to him in class.
九年级物理老师罗伯特·汤森(Robert Townsend)每周安排学生观看一套视频，并要求他们做一些简单的在线测试题，有时还会在课堂上检查他们的视频笔记。
Getting students to do homework is not, of course, a problem exclusive to flipping. Students who don’t watch videos are even less likely to do traditional homework problems. They may have no support or help at home or live in a chaotic house. If they get stuck on the first problem they are out of luck. Townsend said that while only half of his students did traditional homework, 75 to 80 percent watch the videos. “It’s always available to them,” he said. “They’re used to watching. It’s the world they live in. We’re meeting them on their ground.”
当然，督促学生做作业并不是一个专属于翻转课堂的问题。连视频都懒得看的学生也不太可能做传统的家庭作业题。他们在家里也许无法获得支持和帮助，或者生活在一个动荡混乱的家庭。如果学生被卡在第一个问题上，他们就不够走运。汤森指出，在他所带的班中，仅有一半学生做传统的家庭作业，但观看视频的学生高达75%到80%。“视频始终在那里，随时可以观看，”他说。“学生已经形成了观看视频的习惯。这是他们生活的世界。我们与学生相会在他们的地盘。”
Salman Khan, founder of the Khan academy, makes a good point in his book, “The One World Schoolhouse”: If students are going to skip homework, it’s far better to miss watching a video than to miss doing the problem sets.
可汗学院创始人萨尔曼·可汗(Salman Khan)的著作《一个世界校舍》(The One World Schoolhouse)阐述了一个很好的观点：如果学生不打算做家庭作业，没有观看视频的感觉要比没有做习题集好得多。
This is the second and far more important shift that comes with flipped classrooms: it frees up class time for hands-on work. Students learn by doing and asking questions — school shouldn’t be a spectator sport. ”A lot of people think it just has to do with technology,” said Kim Spriggs, who teaches business and marketing. “It’s actually more time for kids to do higher-order thinking and hands-on projects. Instead of presenting the information in class and having students work on projects at home, where they don’t necessarily have support, here in class, one-on-one or in small groups, I can help them immediately.” Students can also help each other, a process that benefits both the advanced and less advanced learners.
翻转课堂带来的第二个，也是更为重要的转变是：它释放了大量课堂时间让学生动手实践。学生通过做和提问学习新知——学校不应该是一种观赏性运动。“许多人认为翻转课堂只是跟技术有关，”商业和市场营销老师吉姆·斯普里格斯(Kim Spriggs)说。“实际上，它的意义在于让孩子们拥有更多时间从事高阶思维和动手项目。我不是在课堂上讲授新知，然后要求学生在不一定能够获得支持的家中做项目，而是在课堂上采用一对一或小组形式及时帮助他们。”此外，学生们也能互相帮助，这一过程不仅有益于优等生，也对后进生有利。
Flipping also changes the distribution of teacher time. In a traditional class, the teacher engages with the students who ask questions — but it’s those who don’t ask who tend to need the most attention. “We refer to ‘silent failers,’ ” said Spriggs. “Now it’s a lot harder for students to hide. The teacher can see pretty much where every student’s understanding is and how to help them. It’s a huge difference for students who didn’t seek out extra help and attention — who just sit back and keep silent.”
翻转课堂也改变了教师的时间分配。在传统的课堂上，教师往往与喜欢提问的学生接触较多，但最需要获得关注的，恰恰是那些不提问的学生。“我们把这些学生称为‘沉默的失败者’，”斯普里格斯说。“现在，对于学生来说，隐身于课堂是一件比过去困难得多的事情。教师可以非常清楚地观察每个学生的理解程度，并且知道如何帮助他们。这将对那些从不寻求额外帮助或关注，只是默不作声，袖手旁观的学生产生巨大的影响。”
Clintondale’s experience indicates that the biggest effect of flipping classrooms is on the students at the bottom. “It’s tough to fail a flipped class, because you’re doing the stuff in here,” said Rob Dameron, the head of the English department. “I used to have about a 30 percent failure rate in English – these kids come in a lot at third-grade, fourth-grade reading levels. Now, out of 130 kids, I have three who are failing — mostly due to attendance problems.”
克林顿戴尔高中的经验表明，受翻转课堂影响最大的，是那些学习成绩处于最底部的学生。“翻转课堂很难教出不及格的学生，因为学生就在你眼皮底下做功课，”英语学科主管罗布·达米隆(Rob Dameron)说。“在我以前任教的班级中，大约有30%的学生无法通过英语考试——这些孩子大体上仅具有三四年级的阅读水平。现在，在我的130个学生中，仅有3人不及格，主要原因是他们经常旷课。”
Townsend said he has seen big improvements in failure rates and in class discipline, but not in grades. “Before my average test score was D+ — now it’s C or C+,” he said. (Other teachers had a different experience, and indeed, science is the weakest subject for students at Clintondale, and across the state as measured on standardized tests.) He said he is now redoing his video lessons and adding online discussion to try to incorporate more critical thinking.
汤森说，他发现学生的不及格率和课堂纪律大有改观，但成绩依然不理想。“在应用翻转课堂之前，我们班学生的平均测试成绩是D+，现在是C或C+，”他说（其他老师则有不同的经历，事实上，从全州标准化测试的成绩来看，科学是克林顿戴尔高中最弱的学科）。汤森目前正在重新设计视频课程，并添加了在线讨论环节，以着重培养学生的批判性思维。
The flipped classroom is a new experience for students — but also for teachers, who are going from “sage on the stage” to “guide on the side,” as many education writers put it. For good teachers, that’s liberating. “I have a YouTube video on subject-verb agreement that has 54,000 views,” said Dameron. “I don’t want to give that lecture every year.”
无论是对于学生，还是老师而言，翻转课堂都一种全新的体验。正如许多教育作者所言，老师们正在从“讲台上的圣人”变为“身边的指导者”。于好老师而言，这是一种解放。“我在YouTube上发布了一段关于主谓一致的视频，其浏览量高达5.4万次，”达米隆说。“我可不想每年都把这个语法知识讲授一遍。”
Townsend said he feels like an “educational artist” who doesn’t just talk and hand out sheets. “I can create interactive lessons and exciting content. There’s so much more time to educate!”
汤森说，他觉得自己就像一位“教育艺术家”，工作内容不仅仅是讲课和分发资料。“我可以创建互动式课程和精彩内容。现在用来教育的时间比以前多得多！”
Flipped classrooms require more creativity and energy from the teacher. “You are off your chair the entire hour and walking around,” said Dameron. “Lots of teachers who aren’t really good teachers are resistant to this — they like to build time into the day when kids are working to do their taxes or catch up on email.”.
翻转课堂需要老师更富创造性，更具活力。“整整一小时内，你不能坐在椅子上，你需要四处走动，”达米隆说。“许多称不上优秀的老师非常抗拒这种上课方式——他们喜欢利用孩子们的学习时间做一些能够消磨时光的事情，比如填填税单或者收发一下电子邮件。”
The most serious critique of the flipped classroom is that it’s not a big enough change. One variation that goes further gives students more responsibility for their own learning, while personalizing education — meeting each student at her own level. In my next column in two weeks, I’ll report on this and other ways teachers are using the flipped classroom.
针对翻转课堂最严重的批评意见是，它带来的变革还不够大。经过进一步的演变，翻转课堂不仅将促进个性化教育（即在每位学生自身层次上满足其学习需求)，还将让学生对自己的学习承担起更大责任。在未来两周的专栏中，我将报道这方面的内容，以及教师运用翻转课堂的其他方式。