Cricket Court, the country house that the British fashion designer Alice Temperley owns with her husband and business partner, Lars von Benningsen, fully reflects both her personal style and her brand. Located down the road from the cider farm on which Temperley and her three siblings, Mary, Mathilda and Harry, grew up in the magical West Country county of Somerset, Cricket Court is the headquarters of the family’s younger generation. (Temperley’s parents, Julian and Diana, still live on the farm, and have the only commercial license in the country to make cider brandy.) Its look, like its owner’s, is borne out of the Somerset hills and romantic summer fetes — the kind of life that inspires Temperley’s floaty, lacy, feminine designs, which are worn by everyone from Beyoncé to Florence Welch to the Duchess of Cambridge.Temperley was actually just looking to rent a house when she and her father came upon Cricket Court in June 2010. “I went in barefoot,” she recalls. “Every corner I turned, the light was so fantastical.” She took one look at the house’s “position on the hill and prism on the roof and the 18th-century windows …” and she was sold.
蟋蟀庭院(Cricket Court)是一栋乡间别墅，房主是英国时装设计师爱丽丝·坦波丽(Alice Temperley)及她的丈夫兼商业合伙人拉斯·冯·贝尼格森(Lars von Benningsen)。这套房子，充分体现出坦波丽的个人风格和品牌特色。在英格兰西部充满魔幻色彩的萨默塞特郡(Somerset)，坦波丽和她的三个兄弟姐妹——玛丽、玛蒂尔达、哈里在一家苹果酒庄长大。沿着苹果酒庄门前的路向下走，就能到达蟋蟀庭院。现如今，它已是家中年轻一代的大本营了（坦波丽的父母朱利安[Julian]和戴安娜[Diana]依然住在酒庄里。全英国只有这家酒庄持有生产苹果酒白兰地的执照）。这套房子的面貌同其主人一样，受到萨默塞特的山峦和浪漫的夏日宴会的熏陶——这样的生活，也启迪坦波丽形成了自己的设计风格，其特点是轻盈飘逸，多采用蕾丝花边，颇具女性美。从碧昂斯(Beyoncé)、弗洛伦斯·韦尔奇(Florence Welch)到剑桥公爵夫人（the Duchess of Cambridge，即凯特王妃——译注），人人都穿坦波丽设计的时装。其实，当坦波丽在2010年6月和父亲来到蟋蟀庭院时，原本只打算租一套房子。“我赤脚走了进去，”坦波丽回忆道，“无论我转到哪个角落，采光都很完美。”她看了看房子“位于山间的方位、房顶的三棱形和18世纪的窗户……”后来，她把房子买了下来。
The place has quite a history. It was built by William the Conquerer for his brother; in the garden and cellar you can still find the old bear-pit, dungeon and ice houses, as well as the tunnels used to whisk people away from danger. The house, which was rebuilt after a fire at the beginning of the 18th century, was also home to the exiled Leo Tolstoy, and was later bought by the newspaper tycoon Lord Beaverbrook; it is said that Winston Churchill planned the D-Day landings in Beaverbrook’s library, and there is even a plaque commemorating the Prime Minister on the front steps.
这个地方颇有来头。它是征服者威廉（William the Conquerer，即威廉一世——译注）为他兄弟建造的；在花园和地窖里，你还能看到当年的熊园、地牢和存冰室，还有为让人远离危险而建造的隧道。18世纪初，这里发生了一场火灾，之后经过了重建。流亡的列夫·托尔斯泰(Leo Tolstoy)就曾在此居住。后来，报业大亨比弗布鲁克勋爵(Lord Beaverbrook)买下了此处房产。据说，温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)曾在比弗布鲁克勋爵的书房里策划诺曼底登陆。前门的台阶上甚至有一块匾额，纪念这位首相。
Architecturally, says Temperley, the house has been described as being “like an M. C. Escher wedding cake — the outside seems to make no sense, and there are masses of staircases inside, many of which don’t really lead anywhere.” Which is suitable for the 38-year-old designer who is known for her Alice in Wonderland fairy-tale aesthetic. Since she is a consummate collector, the house took very little time to decorate. The vibe is Portobello Market — Temperley is a regular at the antiques market near her Notting Hill home — mixed with bohemian touches. There are vintage velvet curtains, disco balls inside and out (she is known for throwing parties, including her annual summer fete in the country) and an old metal circus board hanging over the front door. The dining room features handpainted wallpaper by Frederick Wimsett and a giant papier-mâché foxglove, a prop that the photographer Tim Walker gave Temperley after a photo shoot.The bathroom is lavish, with a Victorian footed bathtub that sits on a platform painted with a Union Jack. The exterior of the bath was customized by Temperley herself, who hand-tiled it with pieces of broken mirror for a sort of Gaudi-meets-Studio 54 effect. One of her signature disco balls completes the look, along with a Rajasthani costume, which she wore as a child and which hangs in the window. Temperley does have a practical side — many of the fabrics she casually strews around the house are remnants from previous fashion collections. Her love of textiles, which informs her whimsical designs, is evident throughout the house — pieces of vintage fabric hang in the windows of her bathroom and studio. “I prefer to have something like that on the wall than a painting,” she says.
坦波丽表示，从建筑的角度讲，这栋房子得到的评价是，“看起来就像莫里茨·科内利斯·埃舍尔（M. C. Escher，荷兰版画家，因其绘画中的数学性而闻名——译注）画的结婚蛋糕——看似其貌不扬，其实内部有大量楼梯，其中很多并不通向任何地方。”这一点，很适合这位现年38岁的设计师。坦波丽正是以《爱丽丝漫游仙境》式的奇幻美学而为人所知的。鉴于她是一名狂热的收藏家，装饰房间几乎没花什么时间。坦波丽在诺丁山(Notting Hill)的住所附近有个波多贝罗市集(Portobello Market)，是她常去的古玩市场。这座时尚住宅，就颇有波多贝罗市集的格调，同时夹杂着波西米亚风格。窗前安装了复古的天鹅绒窗帘，屋内屋外都安着迪斯科球（坦波丽出了名地喜欢开派对，每年都会在乡下举办夏季宴会），前门上方悬挂着一块古老的金属马戏团公告板。餐厅的一大特色在于，这里装饰着弗雷德里克·维姆萨特(Frederick Wimsett)的手绘壁纸，摆放着一朵由混凝纸浆制成的、巨大的毛地黄，这是摄影师蒂姆·沃克(Tim Walker)在一次拍摄之后送给坦波丽的一件道具。浴室的装修豪华，里面放有维多利亚式的四脚浴缸，浴缸下方有座平台，上面绘制着一面英国国旗。浴室的外墙由坦波丽亲手打造，她将一片片破碎的镜子手工铺在墙上，营造一种“高迪邂逅54俱乐部”的氛围（安东尼·高迪·科尔内特，西班牙“加泰罗尼亚现代主义”建筑家，新艺术运动的代表性人物之一；Studio 54，20世纪70年代纽约市的一家传奇俱乐部，也是美国俱乐部文化、夜生活文化等的经典代表——译注）。将这幅画面充实完整的，是她的一件迪斯科球代表作，以及一件拉贾斯坦民族服装(Rajasthani costume)——那是她小时候穿过的衣服，如今挂在窗前。坦波丽也有务实的一面——许多随意点缀在房屋各处的织物，都来自她以前设计的时装系列的边角料。她对纺织品的热爱，反映在了天马行空的设计作品上。这一点，在住宅的各个角落都有体现——浴室和工作室的窗前，悬挂着一件件复古的织物。“我喜欢在墙上挂那样的东西，而不是绘画。”她说。
“We were always dressing up as children,” Temperley recalls. Her father’s mother had “a huge collection of jewelry and fabrics, drawers of laces, shawls that belonged to Queen Victoria, and she used to encourage it in us.” On the other side of the family, her mother seems to have been a great influence on Temperley’s flea-market fashion sensibility. “She is effortlessly stylish and unique,” the designer explains. “She lives in deepest Somerset, but she is one of the most glamorous women I know, in a very earthy way. She doesn’t have any designer accessories,” — other than those from Temperley — “she just finds stuff at stalls.”During the weekends the house is filled with generations of Temperleys. “Family is the most important thing,” she says. The house teems with children, including Temperley and von Benningsen’s 3-year-old son, Fox, and his cousin Phoenix, the son of Temperley’s sister Mary, who lives in a converted chapel five miles down the road. A pair of miniature donkeys, which belong to a neighbor, are regular visitors, and Temperley has her own alpacas: first came Louis, a present for Lars, and then — on discovering that alpacas can die of loneliness — she bought Rupert.
“我们小时候经常盛装打扮起来，”坦波丽回忆道。她的奶奶“收藏了一大堆珠宝和织物、满抽屉的蕾丝、还有曾经属于维多利亚女王的披肩。她曾培养我们对这些东西的兴趣。”而在母亲家这边，她的母亲似乎也对她产生了很大影响，培养了她对跳蚤市场的时尚嗅觉。“我的母亲轻而易举就能把自己打扮得时尚漂亮、独一无二，”这位设计师解释说，“她住在萨默塞特的乡间，但却是我认识的最有魅力的女人，那是种非常浑然天成的魅力。她没有任何品牌首饰，”——除了坦波丽给她的那些首饰以外——“她只是在货摊上淘宝。”每到周末，坦波丽的家中就会变成几世同堂。“家庭是最重要的，”她说。家里聚集了一大批孩子，其中包括她和贝尼格森三岁的儿子福克斯(Fox)和他的表兄弟、玛丽的儿子菲尼克斯(Phoenix)。玛丽住在5英里（约合8公里）外，一座经改建的小教堂里。经常来坦波丽家做客的，还有邻居家的一对迷你小驴。坦波丽也有属于自己的羊驼：第一只叫路易斯(Louis)，是拉斯送的礼物。后来，坦波丽发现羊驼也有可能因孤独而死，于是给路易斯买了一只羊驼作伴，取名鲁珀特(Rupert)。