IT’S that time of year again. Maybe it’s your waistline you’re worried about, or maybe it’s the smoking habit you just can’t seem to kick. To improve your chances of keeping your New Year’s resolutions, we offer four tips inspired by recent research on behavioral economics and health. We focus on health, but our suggestions should help with other goals, too.
又到了一年里的这段时间。或许你在担心自己的腰围，或许你在烦恼烟瘾为什么总也戒不掉。为了让你提高新年心愿实现的机率，我们会给出四项小窍门，它们都来自行为经济学和医学领域最新的研究。我们的关注点是健康，不过这些建议应该也有助于实现其他的目标。
First, make a concrete plan. When you do so, you both embed your intentions firmly in memory (which reduces forgetting) and make it harder to postpone good behavior, since doing so requires breaking an explicit commitment to yourself. In an experiment reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a team of researchers (including one of us) contacted thousands of individuals who needed flu shots. Those individuals who were prompted to privately write down a plan specifying the date and time they would visit a clinic got shots at a 13 percent higher rate than members of a control group, who were also reminded about clinics but were not prompted to form a plan. This strategy, as the same team reported in the journal Preventive Medicine, also improved turnout for colonoscopies.
首先，要作出切实的计划。因为这样做时，既能将自己的意图牢固地印在记忆里，不会那么容易忘掉，也会让你更难推迟开展正确的行为，因为那样做会违背向自己许下的明确承诺。在美国《国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上发表的一项实验中，一组研究人员（包括我们当中的一名）联系了数千名需要注射流感疫苗的人。得到指示要私下制定计划，明确写出要在哪天的什么时间去诊所的人，实际接种疫苗的比例比对照组的受试者高13%。研究人员也提醒后者要去诊所，但并没有指示要制定计划。同一组研究人员发表在《预防医学》(Preventive Medicine)杂志上的论文说明，这种策略也提高了患者接受结肠镜检查的比例。
Second, put something you value on the line. In an article in the Journal of the American Medical Association, a team of researchers (including one of us) reported that over the course of a 16-week study, individuals who were given the opportunity to set aside money for forfeiture if they failed to lose weight lost 14 pounds more than those in a control group. Similarly, an experiment in the American Economic Journal: Applied Economics found that smokers hoping to quit were more likely to succeed if offered an opportunity to deposit funds in an account for six months that they would lose if they failed a urine test for nicotine and cotinine. You can arrange to forfeit money if you don’t achieve your goals at stickK.com, a website founded by behavioral economists. But putting money on the line isn’t your only option: Making an appointment to exercise with a friend may be effective, too, because you are much less likely to cancel on a friend than on yourself.
其次，要押下一些值钱的东西。在《美国医学会杂志》(Journal of the American Medical Association)上发表的一篇文章中，一组研究人员（包括我们当中的一名）报告说，在为期16周的研究中，一些受试者选择了押下一些钱，如果减肥失败就要失去那些钱。这些受试者比对照组多减了14磅（约合6.4公斤）体重。类似的，《美国经济学刊：应用经济学》(American Economic Journal: Applied Economics)上发表的一项实验发现，如果希望戒烟的吸烟者选择把一些钱在一个账户中存六个月，如果尿检时尼古丁和可替宁(cotinine)水平超标，这笔钱就会被没收，那么他戒烟成功的可能性就会更高。你可以在一群行为经济学家建立的网站stickK.com上押一笔钱，赌自己会达成目标，不然钱就会被没收。除了押上钱之外，还有别的办法：与朋友约好一起锻炼可能也有效果，因为放朋友鸽子的机会，比自己放弃要小。
Third, bundle your temptations. This is one of our favorite strategies for tackling health goals, which we tested in an experiment described in a forthcoming paper in Management Science. The idea is best illustrated with a scenario: Imagine you want to exercise more but struggle to drag yourself to the gym. Imagine you also have a fondness for trashy novels but feel guilty wasting your time reading them. The solution is simple: Allow yourself to read those novels only while exercising at the gym. Our research demonstrates that when you leave your copy of “The Hunger Games” (or such) at the gym, you exercise 56 percent more often (and 61 percent of people will even pay the gym to hold their book so it is only available when exercising).
第三，把自己的欲望“捆绑”起来。这是我们在达成健康目标时最青睐的策略之一，我们也在即将发表在《管理科学》(Management Science)上的一篇论文所阐述的试验中，对这个策略进行了验证。有一个例子可以最好地描述这种想法：设想一下，你想要锻炼更多，但是逼迫自己去健身房却很困难。再设想一下，你也很热衷于读滥俗小说，可是浪费时间读那种书又会觉得愧疚。那么解决这种问题的办法就很简单：只有在健身房锻炼时才允许自己读这种小说。我们的研究显示，如果你把自己的那本《饥饿游戏》(The Hunger Games)（或此类书籍）放到健身房，锻炼的频率就会提高56%，有61%的人甚至会愿意付钱给健身房，让他们替自己保管书，只有锻炼时才能读。
Fourth, seek social support. You can achieve more by pursuing goals with the help of a mentor. In a study co-authored by one of us and reported in the Annals of Internal Medicine, patients with poorly controlled diabetes were paired with patients who previously had poorly controlled diabetes but had since achieved mastery over their disease. The improvements in glycemic control achieved by those mentored in this study were larger than those produced by many leading drugs.
第四，寻求社会关系的支持。如果有人指导，追求目标时就能取得更大成就。我们当中的一人参与过的一项研究中，糖尿病病情控制不佳的患者，与曾经病情控制不佳，但之后做到良好控制的患者结成了一对一的小组。这项研究中，得到指引的患者在控制血糖方面取得的改善，比许多畅销药所产生的效果还好。这项研究的论文发表在了《内科学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)上。
What if, despite our tips, you nonetheless fail to achieve your New Year’s resolutions? Fortunately, you will have plenty of other chances. In a paper forthcoming in Management Science, a team of researchers (including one of us) documents “the fresh start effect.” We analyzed the frequency with which Americans searched for the term “diet” on Google, students visited a university gym and people signed up to create goals on stickK.com. We found that the beginnings of many cycles — including the start of a new week, month, year and semester (for students) — are associated with increased interest in dieting as well as increases in exercise and goal creation. People also intensify their pursuit of aspirations following birthdays and federal holidays.
要是你听从了以上的窍门，结果还是没有达成新年心愿，那该怎么办？幸运的是，你还有很多别的机会。即将在《管理科学》(Management Science)上发表的一篇文章中，一组研究人员（其中包括我们中的一名）阐述了“新起点效应”(the fresh start effect)。我们分析了美国人在谷歌(Google)上搜索“节食”(diet)一词的频率、学生去学校健身房的频率，以及人们注册stickK.com并设置目标的频率。分析发现，在许多周期性时间段开始时，包括新一周、一个月、一年开始时，以及学生们在新学期开始时，人们节食、加强体育锻炼、设置目标的兴趣会增强。在生日和公共假期过后，人们追求宏愿的动力也会加强。
So although many (in fact most) New Year’s resolutions are unsuccessful, the good news is that if at first we don’t succeed, there are many other “fresh starts” on the calendar when we can try again.
所以尽管许多（实际上是多数）新年心愿都不会成功，但好消息是，如果一开始无法取得成功，日历上还有很多别的“新起点”，你可以到时再试一次。