SYDNEY, Australia — “We’re coming back for you,” a post on Facebook warned. The purported threat? To send in the clowns.
澳大利亚悉尼——“我们又来了，等着瞧，”一则Facebook帖子发出警告。他们威胁要做什么呢？派出一支小丑大军。
If Australian news outlets and social media are to be believed, “20,000 anonymous clowns” are plotting a reign of terror.
按照澳大利亚新闻机构和社交媒体的说法，“两万名未透露姓名的小丑”正准备让人们陷入恐惧。
The clowns — grown-ups in face paint and giant shoes — have threatened to do little beyond show up late at night in a handful of suburbs and look scary. However, the local news media has breathlessly described the group as “a chilling threat” and “creepy clown fanatics.”
小丑们——即脸上抹了油彩、脚下穿着大鞋的成年人——威胁要做的事，无非是大半夜出现在郊区的某些地方吓唬人。然而当地新闻媒体却惊恐万状，形容这群人构成了“骇人的威胁”，这是一帮“让人心里发毛的疯狂小丑”。
The hysteria seems to have started with a Facebook page established last week. The anonymous creator of the page, called Clown Purge Australia, posted a photo of a clown, with a caption that read “IT” and an emoji of a red balloon, a homage to the blockbuster film that had its premiere in Australia last week.
这场歇斯底里的恐慌似乎始于上周创建的一个Facebook主页。该匿名创建的主页名为“澳大利亚小丑大清洗”(Clown Purge Australia)，上面贴了一张小丑的照片，图释写着“IT”(它)，还有一个红气球表情符，这是向上周在澳大利亚首映的卖座小丑电影《小丑回魂》(IT)致意。
Two days later, the account asserted, “On Halloween we’ll have 50 clowns go to one place.” That threat seemed to have been enough to thoroughly frighten Australians — a people who tend to pride themselves on a cheerful lack of fear.
两天后，这个Facebook账号表示，“万圣节我们将集合50个小丑。”这个威胁似乎足以把澳大利亚人彻底吓懵——要知道这里的人可是向来以混不吝为傲的。
“If they come at me with a knife, I’ll beat” them, Martin Lewis, a father from Melbourne, said in an interview. “And if I have my kids with me, I’ll do anything necessary to protect my family.”
“如果它们拿着刀来对付我，我会揍”它们，墨尔本一位名叫马丁·刘易斯(Martin Lewis)的父亲在采访中说。“如果孩子们正跟我在一起，为了保护我的家人，我什么都干得出来。”
The clowns never mentioned knives. Balloons, yes. Knives, no.
小丑们从来没提过刀这个字。气球，有。刀，没有。
The public reaction seemed only to fuel the anonymous clown behind the Facebook page to seek more attention. The user promised to reveal the locations of the so-called purge if he reached a certain number of new followers. In just days, the account added more than 25,000 followers.
民众这样的反应，似乎促使Facebook主页背后那个匿名小丑更加起劲地博人眼球。这名用户承诺一旦粉丝达到一定数量，他会公开所谓大清洗的地点。关注这个账号的人数在几天内增加了2.5万以上。
But as much as the person behind the account hoped to scare others, the scrutiny seemed also to freak him out.
不过，尽管此人非常乐于吓唬人，由此引来的关注似乎也让他有些惊慌。
“Us clowns mean no harm,” the user wrote on Facebook. “We don’t mean harm to anyone, we respect those that look overly-vulnerable and unstable as in elderly people and people with disabilities also younger kids.”
“我们小丑没有恶意，”该用户在Facebook上说。“我们不想伤害任何人，我们会尊重那些老幼病残。”
He then added the last thing any self-respecting killer clown would say: “We are doing this for fun and we are very cautious of our actions. You can stop with the toxicity now.”
最后他加上了任何有自尊的杀人小丑都会说的一句话：“我们只是图个乐子，我们的行动是很谨慎的。你们不要再妖言惑众了。”
The creator of the Australia Clown Purge page did not respond to repeated requests for comment. Several attempts to identify and contact clowns who planned to participate in the event were also unsuccessful. More Facebook pages promising similar meet-ups across the country have also emerged in recent days.
向澳大利亚小丑大清洗页面创建者多次发出的置评请求没有得到回应。另外本报多番尝试了解有意参加此次活动的小丑的身份，并与他们取得联系，均未能成功。近日又出现了几个Facebook主页，承诺要在全国各地举办类似的小丑集会。
As purges go, this one appears particularly disorganized.
至于那场大清洗，组织工作似乎格外不顺利。
By Wednesday, the purge organizer was complaining about how “clown masks are so hard to rip bongs.”
到了本周三，大清洗组织者在抱怨“戴着小丑面具抽水烟太困难了”。
Around this time last year, several cities in the United States and Australia reported clown sightings. In South Carolina, several children said clowns had tried to lure them into the woods. In Australia, an ax-wielding clown was arrested after menacing drive-through customers at a fast-food joint.
去年的这个时候，美国和澳大利亚多个城市有小丑目击报道。在南卡罗来纳州，多名儿童表示有小丑试图引诱他们进树林。在澳大利亚，一名小丑手持斧子在一家快餐店外恐吓驾车购餐的顾客，随即被逮捕。
“Police forces have braced themselves for sightings of the red-nosed harlequins,” 7News reported this week.
“警方正严阵以待，关注这些红鼻子丑角人物的出现，”7News本周报道称。
But the authorities in Western Australia did not seem particularly concerned.
但是西澳大利亚当局似乎不以为然。
“You can’t just be arrested for wearing a clown suit,” said a spokesman for the Western Australia Police. “It’s what you’re doing at the time.”
“你不能因为有人穿了小丑服就逮捕他，”西澳大利亚警方发言人说。“重点是他当时在干什么。”