Jurong Island, a man-made smear of sand, lies just off the southern coast of Singapore. A quarter the size of Nantucket, it is thoroughly given over to the petrochemical industry, so crowded with spindly cracking towers and squat oil-storage tanks that the landscape is a blur of brand names — BASF, AkzoNobel, Exxon Mobil, Vopak. One of the island’s most distinctive features, though, remains hidden: the Jurong Rock Caverns, which hold 126 million gallons of crude oil. To get there, you ride an industrial elevator more than 325 feet into the earth, and that brings you to the operations tunnel, a curving space as lofty as a cathedral. It is so long that workers get around on bicycles. Safety goggles mist up with the heat and the humidity; the rock walls, wet from dripping water, look so soft they might have been scooped out of chocolate ice cream. This is as far as anyone — even the workers — can go. The caverns themselves are an additional 100 feet beneath the ocean: two sealed cylindrical vaults, extending away from Jurong. They opened for business in 2014. Next year, three new vaults will be ready. Then, if all goes according to plan, there will be six more.
裕廊岛是座人工岛，位于新加坡南部海岸。它的面积只有楠塔基特岛的四分之一，被完全用于发展石油化学工业，上面密集分布着细高的裂解塔和矮胖的石油储存罐，一眼望去，岛上尽是看不太清的品牌名——BASF(巴斯夫)、AkzoNobel(阿克苏诺贝尔)、Exxon Mobil(埃克森美孚)和Vopak(孚宝)。然而，这座岛最具特色的一个地方却不易察觉：储存着1.26亿加仑原油的裕廊岛地下储油库(Jurong Rock Caverns)。要到达那里，你需要乘工业电梯进入地下325英尺（约合99米）深的地方，来到施工隧道里，那是一个如教堂般高耸的曲面空间。隧道十分长，工人们要骑自行车往来。里面温度高、湿气大，安全护目镜会因此模糊；凝结着水滴的岩石墙面很潮湿，看起来十分柔软，像是用勺子挖出来的巧克力冰淇淋。这是人们所能到达的最深处，即便是工人们也不例外。这座储油库本身还要再深入海平面之下100英尺（约合30米）：从裕廊岛延伸出来的两个封闭的圆柱形地下储库。它们于2014年开始运营。明年将建成三个新储库。接下来，如果一切顺利，还会再建六个。
As a concept, underground reservoirs are not new. Sweden has been building them since the 1950s; a pair in the port of Gothenburg has a titanic capacity of 370 million gallons of oil. So the Jurong Rock Caverns are less an emblem of the marvels of technology than of the anxiety of a nation. Singapore is the 192nd-largest country in the world. Tinier than Tonga and just three-fifths the area of New York City, it has long fretted about its congenital puniness. “Bigger countries have the luxury of not having to think about this,” said David Tan, the assistant chief executive of a government agency called the Jurong Town Corporation, which built Jurong Island as well as the caverns. “We’ve always been acutely aware of our small size.”
作为一种概念，地下储油库并不新鲜。瑞典自上世纪50年代就开始建造这种储油库；哥德堡港有一对储油库，其容量十分巨大，可以储存3.7亿加仑石油。所以与其说裕廊岛是一个技术奇迹，不如说它体现了一个国家的焦虑。新加坡是全球第192大的国家，面积比岛国汤加还小，只有纽约市的五分之三。长久以来，它一直为自身先天的微小身形而苦恼。“更大的国家就不用考虑这个问题，”裕廊岛及裕廊地下储油库的建造者、政府机构裕廊集团(Jurong Town Corporation)副总裁戴维·谭(David Tan)说。“我们一直深切地意识到自己面积狭小。”
The caverns were designed to free up land above ground, Tan said. I remarked that the phrase “freeing up land” occurs like clockwork in conversations with Singapore’s planners. He laughed. Land is Singapore’s most cherished resource and its dearest ambition. Since it became an independent nation 52 years ago, Singapore has, through assiduous land reclamation, grown in size by almost a quarter: to 277 square miles from 224. By 2030, the government wants Singapore to measure nearly 300 square miles.
戴维·谭表示，设计地下储油库的目的是腾出地面上的空间。我顺便说道，我所采访的新加坡规划者们无一例外地提到了“腾出土地”这个词。他笑了起来。土地是新加坡最宝贵的资源，也是这个国家最昂贵的志向。自52年前成为一个独立的国家以来，新加坡依靠坚持不懈的填海造地，已将面积扩大了近四分之一：从224平方英里增加到277平方英里。政府期待，至2030年新加坡的面积能接近300平方英里。
But reclaiming land from the ocean has its limits, particularly in an age of a warming planet. Scientists warn that by 2100, sea levels may rise by as much as six feet, and furious storms will pound our coasts. All over the world, the governments of small islands are working to respond to these hazards. Kiribati, an island nation in the Central Pacific, has bought 6,000 acres of forested land in Fiji, more than a thousand miles away, hoping to resettle some of its 100,000 people if a crisis hits. The Maldives, similarly, has talked about buying land in Australia. People have begun to leave Tuvalu, in the South Pacific; the Marshall Islands; and Nauru, in Micronesia. Five of the lowest Solomon Islands have already vanished. In humanity’s battle to save itself from a harsher climate, these diminutive islands find themselves on the front lines.
但填海造地有其局限，尤其是在地球变暖的时代。科学家们警告，至2100年，海平面可能会增高六英尺（约合1.8米），地球上的海岸会遭遇剧烈的风暴袭击。世界各地的小岛国的政府都在为应对这样的危险做准备。位于太平洋中部的岛国基里巴斯在一千多英里之外的斐济购买了6000英亩（约合24平方公里）林地，以便在遭遇危机时将其10万人口中的一部分安置到那里。同样地，马尔代夫也在谈论在澳大利亚购买土地。人们开始离开南太平洋岛国图瓦卢、马绍尔群岛共和国和密克罗尼西亚群岛上的瑙鲁。所罗门群岛中地势最低的五个岛屿已经消失。在人类拯救自身、对抗更严酷气候的战斗中，这些微小岛屿首当其冲。
Most of these islands — in the Pacific or in Asia — are impoverished, reliant on larger nations for assistance and resources. Singapore is an exception. In countries ranked by per capita gross domestic product, it places fourth — far above Nauru, at 112, or Kiribati, at 212. Over the past half-century, building upon its function as one of the world’s great ports, Singapore has turned into a capital of finance and services. The country is so devotedly pro-business that it can feel like a corporation; its constitution includes several pages on how the government’s investments should be managed. Singapore doesn’t reveal how much money its two sovereign wealth funds administer, but a senior economist at the Macquarie Group estimated their value at just under a trillion dollars.
这些位于太平洋或亚洲的岛屿大多比较贫穷，依赖于更大的国家的援助和资源。新加坡是个例外。在以人均国内生产总值而论的国家排名中，新加坡位居第四——远高于排在112位的瑙鲁，或212位的基里巴斯。在过去的半个世纪里，新加坡在其世界最大港口之一的功能基础上，又发展成一个金融与服务之都。这个国家如此致力于支持商业，以致给人感觉像是个公司；该国宪法有好几页是关于应该如何管理政府投资。新加坡不曾透露它的两个主权财富基金管理着多少资金，但是据麦格理集团(Macquarie Group)一名高级经济师估计，它们的价值只略低于一万亿美元。
Among the world’s smattering of small islands, then, Singapore, with a population of 5.6 million, is a special case: a country that’s also a city, a government that owns 90 percent of all real estate, a one-party state in all but name. But how it fends off the ocean will be of deep interest to many other populous and productive cities near the water: New York, Miami, Rio de Janeiro, Mumbai, Guangzhou, all miniature nations of a sort.
另外，在世界上为数不多的小岛国中，人口560万的新加坡也是个特例：一个同时也是城市的国家，一个掌控着国家90%不动产的政府，一个事实上的一党制国家。然而对于它如何阻挡来自海洋的灾祸，其他许多人口众多、生产力高的滨海城市也会有浓厚的兴趣：纽约、迈阿密、里约热内卢、孟买、广州，它们都有点像微缩版的国家。
Much of Singapore lies less than 50 feet above sea level. A third of the island sits around 16 feet above the water — low enough to give planners the jitters. Coastal roads are being raised; a new airport terminal is being built 18 feet above sea level. All the while, the island receives more and more rain each year. “If global temperatures continue to rise,” a government official said last year, “many parts of Singapore could eventually be submerged.”
新加坡大部分地区的高度不及海拔50英尺（约合15米）。而且这座岛屿有三分之一的地方只比海平面高16英尺（约合5米），这足以让规划者们紧张不安。海岸公路在被加高；一座高于海平面18英尺的新机场航站楼正在建造之中。这座岛屿的降雨量每年都在增加。“如果全球气温持续上升，”一位政府官员去年讲道，“新加坡的许多地方可能最终会被淹没。”
The Jurong Rock Caverns are just one answer to a pair of intriguing questions: What does a tremendously rich and ambitious country do when it is running out of land? And what can the rest of the world learn from these experiments?
裕廊岛地下储油库只是两个引人关注的问题的一个答案：一个极其富裕又颇具雄心的国家在土地越来越少的情况下会做些什么？世界其他地方能从这些经验中学到什么？
In the Tolstoy short story “How Much Land Does a Man Need?” a peasant muses in frustration: “Our only trouble is that we haven’t land enough. If I had plenty of land, I shouldn’t fear the Devil himself.” Similar thoughts must have struck Lee Kuan Yew, who cast Singapore in his vision. Through his three decades as prime minister, Lee saw his country as locked in a struggle against its size. Singapore was a tiny nation, and dire fates awaited tiny nations that could not take care of themselves. “In a world where the big fish eat small fish and the small fish eat shrimps, Singapore must become a poisonous shrimp,” he once said.
在托尔斯泰的短篇小说《一个人需要多少土地？》(How Much Land Does a Man Need?)中，一个农民沮丧地思忖道：“我们唯一的问题是没有足够的土地。如果有足够的土地，我连撒旦都不用怕。”同样的想法肯定也曾出现在李光耀(Lee Kuan Yew)的脑海里，他凭借自己的远见一手造就了新加坡。在担任总理的三十年里，李光耀将自己的国家看作受困于与自身面积的斗争的国度。新加坡是一个十分小的国家，而不能照顾自己的国家会遭遇可怕的命运。“在一个大鱼吃小鱼、小鱼吃虾米的世界里，新加坡必须变成一只毒虾，”他曾经说道。
The island is still awash in his apprehensions. Bureaucrats assemble reports on topics like Maximizing Value From Land as a Scarce Resource. The government works from a Concept Plan, a land-use scheme that looks half a century into the future; the plan itself is reviewed every 10 years. On the first floor of a city museum in the Urban Redevelopment Authority building, a wall is engraved with letters that spell SMALL ISLAND. It’s not until the second floor that the second half of the message materializes: BIG PLANS.
这座岛屿仍然沉浸在他的这种看法中。政府官员编纂了有关“将土地作为稀缺资源价值最大化”等话题的报告。政府的工作从一种概念规划出发，一个展望未来五十年的土地使用规划；这项规划本身每十年就要受到重新审视。在新加坡市区重建局(Urban Redevelopment Authority)内一座城市博物馆的一层，有一座墙上镌刻着SMALL ISLAND(小岛屿)这个英文词组。到了第二层，才知道这条讯息的第二部分是什么：大计划(BIG PLANS)。
A 10-minute walk from the museum is Boat Quay, the site of the island’s very first land reclamation. In 1822, having just colonized Singapore, the British dismantled a hill and packed the material along the bank of the Singapore River. “Some two or three hundred laborers were paid one rupee per head per day to dig and carry the earth,” Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir, who acted as an informal secretary to British officials at the time, wrote in his 1849 memoir. “Every afternoon, sacks of money were brought to pay the workmen.” Boat Quay’s old shop-houses — shops that doubled as their owners’ residences — have been converted into restaurants, bars and massage parlors. In the evenings, the tables heave with workers from the nearby financial district, much like Manhattan’s South Street Seaport and other ribbons of waterfront realty around the world. In the spirit of preservation, the buildings of Boat Quay have remained low, crouched close to the ground. One street away, however, Singapore’s skyscrapers begin in earnest. At the spot where the hill was broken down and carted off to build Boat Quay, there now stands One Raffles Place, clad in steel and glass, taller, in all probability, than its rock-and-mud forefather.
从这座博物馆步行10分钟，就来到了驳船码头，即这座岛屿最早填海造地的地方。1822年，刚刚将新加坡据为殖民地的英国拆铲平了一座山，把山土压实在新加坡河沿岸。“有大约两三百名工人拿着每人每天1卢比的报酬挖土和运土，”当时给英国官员担任非正式秘书的阿卜杜拉·本·阿卜杜勒·卡迪尔(Abdullah bin Abdul Kadir)在他1849年的回忆录中写道。“每天下午，一袋袋的钱被运过去给工人支付工资。”驳船码头上的旧商铺——兼作屋主住处的商店——被改造成餐馆、酒吧和按摩院。夜晚，桌边坐满了在附近金融区上班的人，那景象跟曼哈顿的南街海港和全世界其他地方的海滨街巷并无二致。秉承维持原貌的精神，驳船码头的建筑一直保持着低矮的风貌，贴近地面。不过，就在一街之隔的地方，新加坡的摩天大楼拔地而起。在山被铲平、土被运去建造驳船码头的地方，如今矗立着莱佛士坊一号(One Raffles Place)，这座玻璃和混凝土建成的大楼十有八九比过去那座岩石和土构成的山更高。
Once I began looking for reclaimed land, I encountered it everywhere. The five towers of the Marina Bay Financial Center are built on reclaimed land; so is an assortment of parks, wharves and a coastal highway. Beach Road, in the island’s belly, at one time had a self-evident name; now it reads like a wry joke, given how much new land separates it from the ocean. Most of Singapore’s Changi Airport sits on earth where there was once only water. The artist Charles Lim Yi Yong grew up in a kampong, or village, near where work on the airport began in 1975, so his house looked out onto reclaimed land. “It was a wooded area, but if you walked there, the ground would be sand and not soil,” Lim said. “Then you went through this desert space. It felt like I was in ‘The Little Prince.’ ”
当我开始寻找有哪些是填海造就的土地，就发现它们无处不在。滨海湾金融中心(Marina Bay Financial Center)的五座高楼是建在填海得来的土地上；还有各种公园、码头和沿海公路也是如此。位于岛屿中部的滨海路(Beach Road)一度有着不言自明的名字；如今这名字读来就像个有讽刺意味的笑话，因为已经有太多新造的土地将它与大海隔开。新加坡樟宜机场(Changi Airport)所在的地方以前大部分都是海域。新加坡艺术家林育荣(Lim Yi Yong)长大的小村庄离1975年机场工程启动的地方不远，从他的房子里就可以看到填成的土地。“那是一片有树的地，但你如果在那里走动，就会发现地上是沙子，而不是土壤，”林亦勇说道。“然后你穿过这篇沙地，感觉自己就像是走进了《小王子》(The Little Prince)那本书描绘的世界。”
Before he turned to art, Lim, now 43, sailed in the 1996 Olympics on the Singapore team. He grew interested in the sea because he sailed, and he sailed because he came from a kampong on the coast. The kampong has long since disappeared, and the coast has changed beyond recognition. Lim’s major creation, “Sea State,” is an anthology of artifacts and installations: videos and charts, buoys and other nautical paraphernalia. Shown at the Venice Biennale two years ago, “Sea State” embodies Lim’s obsession with his country’s transactional relationship with the ocean. His art is a form of urban exploration, roving over, into and around Singapore, studying what few others see: outlying islets, sewage tunnels, buoys, lighthouses, sand barges. For Lim, most of these are easy to access. “I can just take a small sailboat and go. I look very innocuous when I’m out at sea.”
现年43岁的林育荣曾是一名帆船手，并于1996年代表新加坡参加奥运会，后来转投艺术界。由于帆船，他对海洋很感兴趣；之所以驾驶帆船，则是因为他来自一个滨海村庄。那个村庄早就消失了，海岸也已经变得让人认不出来。林育荣的主要作品《海况》(Sea State)，集合了诸多手工艺品和装置：其中包括视频和图表，浮标和其他航海用具。曾于两年前在威尼斯双年展(Venice Biennale)上展出的《海况》，体现着他对新加坡与海洋之间的交易式关系的沉迷。他的作品是一种城市探索，从各个角度审视着新加坡，研究基本没人注意之处：外岛、污水隧道、浮标、灯塔和沙石驳船。对林育荣来说，这些大都是很容易接触到的东西。“我乘小帆船出发就行。出海对我来说是家常便饭。”
Lim is able to narrate, practically by himself, a fine-grained history of the island’s reclamation projects. He pointed me to one of the videos in “Sea State,” which he has uploaded onto Vimeo. It stars an engineer who surveyed Singapore’s neighborhoods in the 1990s to determine where it would be best to haul away sand for reclamation. Close to the coast, he found more silt than sand, so he and his colleagues went farther out to sea, to “suck the sand into the barges and deliver the sand over to Singapore.” Once, having strayed into Indonesia’s territorial waters without a permit, they were arrested. “We weren’t criminals,” he said. “We were just doing our job.”
林育荣实际上是以一己之力讲述着关于岛上填海工程的一段细节丰富的历史。他指给我看《海况》中的一个已经被他上传到Vimeo的视频。开头是一名工程师在1990年代对新加坡附近地区进行考察，以便确定最好是从哪里运走沙子去填海。在靠近海岸的地方，他发现了更多的淤泥而非沙子，于是他的同事们朝着大海深处前行，想要“将沙子吸入驳船，运往新加坡。”一次，他们进入了印度尼西亚领海，由于未经许可，遭到逮捕。“我们不是罪犯，”他说。“我们只是在做本职工作。”
Several countries have tired of feeding Singapore’s endless appetite for sand; Indonesia, Malaysia and, most recently, Cambodia have halted exports altogether. These bans have affected some of Singapore’s reclamation schedules, David Tan said, although he insisted that the supply lines from Myanmar were “still robust.” In any case, Singapore is trying to shrink its reliance on sand imports. “We do a lot of tunneling work for the subway, so that material goes into reclamation,” he said. Most of the infill in the reclamations under a coming shipping-container terminal — planned to be the world’s largest — is rock and soil debris from construction projects.
新加坡对沙料有着无穷无尽的需求，这让若干国家感到厌倦；印度尼西亚、马来西亚，最近又加上柬埔寨，已经完全停止向其出口沙料。戴维·谭说，沙料出口禁令让新加坡的一些填海计划受到了影响，但他坚称来自缅甸的供给“依然很强劲”。无论如何，新加坡正试图减少对进口沙料的依赖。“我们为了修地铁挖了很多隧道，于是就用挖出的东西填海，”他说。一个即将面世的集装箱码头下的大部分填料，都是来自建筑工程的岩渣和泥渣。按照规划，该集装箱码头将是世界上最大的一个。
But the desire to reclaim never-ending shelves of land, farther and farther into the sea, will inevitably be outfoxed by physics. On a whiteboard, Tan drew me a diagram of the process: first, building a wall in the water, reaching all the way down into the seabed; next, draining the water behind the wall and replacing it with infill. As the ocean grows less shallow, it becomes harder and harder to build the wall, to stabilize the infill, to protect it all from collapse. “We’re already reclaiming in water that is 20 meters deep,” Tan said. “Maybe it would be viable to reclaim in 30 meters, if land prices go up. But 40 and 50 meters would be very difficult. It’s physically difficult and economically unviable.”
但朝着海洋更深处填出无边无际的陆地的渴望，终将被物理学击败。在一块白板上，戴维·谭就填海过程为我画了一张图：首先在水里建起围墙，一直抵达海底；接着把墙后的水抽干，代之以填料。随着海洋变得越来越深，建围墙、夯实填料以及防止崩塌都变得越来越困难。“我们已经在20米深的水里填海了，”戴维·谭说。“或许在30米深的地方也具有可行性，如果土地价格上涨的话。但到了四五十米的深度会非常困难。从物理学角度看很难做到，从经济角度看也不可行。”
Lim had told me that Singapore holds a strategic sand reserve, for emergencies. It lies somewhere in the area called Bedok, he said. I spotted it one day as I rode past in a taxi. The site was strewn with No Trespassing signs installed by the Housing and Development Board, a government agency. Fenced off from the public, the giant trapezoidal dunes shone bone-white in the sun and caramel in the shade, as the sand waited to be summoned.
林育荣告诉我，新加坡对沙子进行了战略储备，以供紧急之需。他说存放点就在勿落(Bedok)地区的某个地方。有一天乘出租车路过时我得以亲见。那里到处都是由政府机构建屋发展局(Housing and Development Board)安放的带有“不得入内”字样的牌子。与公众隔绝的巨大梯形沙丘静静伫立，阳光照射下的沙子呈骨白色，阴影中的则呈焦糖色，等待着使命的召唤。
Singapore has always held elections, but only one party — Lee Kuan Yew’s People’s Action Party — has ever ruled the island, and only three men have ever been prime minister. Opposition parties have never been permitted to be anything more than frail invertebrates, so the P.A.P. can do as it pleases. The environmental consequences of remodeling the coastline — an altered ecology, wetlands rubbed off the map — can be waved away. Residents can be moved so that projects can proceed. In Singapore’s quandary of where to put its people, the people themselves — the living as well as the dead — can seem like pieces on a checkerboard.
虽然新加坡的政府每届都是选举产生，但这个岛国一直都由一个政党——李光耀的人民行动党——统治，只有三个人担任过总理。反对党派从未被允许变为比脆弱的无脊椎动物强多少的力量，所以人民行动党可以为所欲为。重建海岸线的环境后果—— 生态的改变，湿地从地图上消失——可以不予理会。为了让项目能够进行，居民可以被搬走。把人民放在哪里是新加坡的一个困惑，在这个困惑中，人民本身——活着的和死去的——可以看起来像是棋盘上的棋子。
The Bukit Brown Municipal Cemetery lies as close to Singapore’s geographical midpoint as is possible without intruding into the grounds of the Singapore Island Country Club. No one has been buried here since 1973, but it still holds more than 200,000 human remains within its 400 acres, making it one of the largest Chinese graveyards outside China. Burials began on this site in the 1830s, and the interred include several Singaporean pioneers, men and women who settled and built the island. Someone told me that the man who introduced the governess Anna Leonowens to the king of Siam was buried in a Bukit Brown tomb, but the casual visitor will be hard-pressed to find it. The cemetery is so overgrown with weeds that it is one of Singapore’s few truly untended spaces. There is no signage, and most inscriptions are in Chinese. The tombs are dignified affairs, shaped like thrones, broad enough to hold full families. On some of the short plinths, in front of the headstone, people had placed lighted joss sticks that had long since burned down; only their stems remained, like the surviving bristles of an ancient toothbrush.
武吉布朗市立公墓(Bukit Brown Municipal Cemetery)位于与新加坡的地理中心尽可能近的地方，只要不侵犯新加坡岛乡村俱乐部的地盘。自1973年起，这里已经没有下葬过任何人，但在这个400余英亩（约合2400亩）的墓地里仍埋着逾20万人的遗体，使之成为中国境外最大的华人墓地之一。早在19世纪30年代，这里开始埋葬死者，其中包括新加坡的几位先驱，那些最早来岛定居和建造岛屿的男男女女。有人告诉我，把英国女教师安娜·李奥诺文斯(Anna Leonowens)引荐给暹罗国王的人就埋在武吉布朗公墓，但一般的访客很难找到他的墓碑。公墓里的杂草如此之多，使之成为新加坡为数不多的真正没人管的地方之一。这里没有标志，大多数墓碑上刻的文字是中文的。墓都很庄重，形状像宝座，大到足购埋葬全家人。在一些墓碑前面的矮底座上，有人烧过香，香早就烧完了，只剩下了些小棍棍，像是古老的牙刷残留的刷毛。
One side of the path into the cemetery was lined with a green metal fence hiding construction work on a new expressway that will soon tear through the heart of Bukit Brown. “We can’t have that graveyard in the center of the island forever,” a former city planner told me. Singapore prefers columbaria, in which urns of cremated remains are stored in cavities on a wall. “All our graves are high-rise too!” he said with a laugh. A group of citizens is campaigning to save Bukit Brown, calling it a vital piece of the island’s heritage, but more than 4,000 graves have already been exhumed, and the ground that contained them has been leveled.
进入公墓的小路的一侧是长长的绿色金属围栏，把建设工地与小路隔开，在建的是一条将从武吉布朗中心穿过去的新高速公路。一名前城市规划师对我说，“我们不能永远把墓地留在岛的中心。”新加坡更喜欢放骨灰瓮的壁龛，把装有火化后骨灰的瓮放在墙壁上的空穴里保存。“我们所有的坟墓也都是高层的！”他笑着说。一群公民正在为拯救武吉布朗而努力，他们称之为新加坡岛遗产的重要部分，但已有4000多个坟墓被挖掉，它们所在的原地已被整平。
In a restless polity, such single-mindedness would earn the ruling party a risky degree of unpopularity, but nothing seems to dent the P.A.P. It won an election in 2011, even though Singaporeans were angry over housing shortages and an overburdened public-transportation system. It won even more handily in 2015, after land prices rose by 30 percent three years in a row and after the government’s migration-led population target of 6.9 million by 2030 — necessary to fill out the work force, but also a strain on the island’s finite resources — kindled a public protest, a singular event in this country. But stopping the state from doing something it wants to do is, in Singapore, a task primed for defeat. An inert citizenry gives the government the freest of hands in confronting climate change, just as it does in every other sphere, far into the foreseeable future.
在老百姓不安份的政体中，这种独断专行将让执政党有一定程度的不受欢迎风险，但似乎没有任何事情能挫伤人民行动党。尽管新加坡人对住房短缺和公共交通系统负担过重感到气愤，但人民行动党仍赢得了2011年的选举。该党在2015年的选举中更是轻而易举地获胜，尽管地价连续三年上涨了30%，而且政府制定的以移民为主导的2030年达到690万人口的目标引发了该国的奇特事件：一场公众抗议，这个人口目标对填补劳动力来说是必须的，但这也给岛上有限的资源带来了压力。但是，在新加坡，阻止国家做其想要做的事情是必败无疑的徒劳。一个惰性的公民社会让政府有最大的自由面对气候变化，就像政府在其他领域能做的一样，这在可预见的未来不会改变。