WASHINGTON — I CAN’T wait to read the book W. won’t write.
华盛顿——我迫不及待地想读W不肯写的那本书。
Not since Beyoncé dropped a new digital album online overnight with no warning or fanfare has there been such a successful pop-up arts project.
自从碧昂斯(Beyoncé)一天晚上没有宣传鼓噪就毫无预警地在网上发布新专辑以来，还没有过哪个突然冒出来的艺术项目能如此成功。
Crown Publishers startled everyone Wednesday by announcing that the 68-year-old W. has written a “personal biography” of his 90-year-old father, due out in November.
周三，皇冠出版社(Crown Publishers)把所有人都吓到了。这个出版社宣布，现年68岁的W写了一本“私人传记”，讲述自己已经90岁的父亲。新书将在11月出版。
I guess he ran out of brush to clear.
我觉得他应该是把画笔清洗完了。
“Never before has a President told the story of his father, another President, through his own eyes and in his own words,” the Crown news release crowed, noting that W.’s “Decision Points” was the best-selling presidential memoir ever and promising that 43’s portrait of 41 will be “heartfelt, intimate, and illuminating.”
皇冠出版社的新闻稿里夸耀道，“过去从来没有过哪个总统通过自己的视角、用自己的话，讲述过也担任过总统的父亲的故事。”新闻稿里还提到，W的《抉择时刻》(Decision Points)是史上最畅销的总统回忆录，还打包票说，43任总统对41任总统的描写“诚挚、亲密，而且有启发性”。
It is certainly illuminating to learn that W. has belatedly decided to bathe his father in filial appreciation.
得知W迟至今日才决定尽孝，以溢美之词回顾父亲，的确很有启发性。
Like his whimsical paintings and post-presidency discretion, this sweet book will no doubt help reset his image in a more positive way.
就像他古怪随性的油画，以及卸任总统后的低调一样，这本温情脉脉的书，毫无疑问能帮助他以更加正面的色彩重新树立形象。
But the intriguing question is: Is he doing it with an eye toward spinning the future or out of guilt for the past?
然而有趣的问题是：他这样做是想用一面之词左右未来，还是出于对过去的愧疚？
Just as his nude self-portraits are set in a shower and a bath, this book feels like an exercise in washing away the blunders of Iraq, Afghanistan and Katrina.
就像W在花洒下、在浴盆里的自画像一样，这本书也像是在努力洗刷他在总统任内犯下的错误，比如伊拉克、阿富汗，以及“卡特里娜”(Katrina)飓风。
Are these efforts at self-expression a way to cleanse himself and exorcise the ghosts of all those who died and suffered for no reason? It’s redolent of Lady Macbeth, guilty over regicide and unable to stop rubbing her hands as though she’s washing them, murmuring “Out, damned spot!”
这些自我表达的尝试，是在想办法替自己洗脱罪名吗？是在设法驱散那些无辜受苦、死去的人的鬼魂吗？这让人想起麦克白夫人(Lady Macbeth)，她迫使丈夫杀死国王后心生愧疚，不住地搓手仿佛是想洗净弑君带来的负罪感，嘴里还嘟囔着“去，该死的血迹！”
But some spots don’t come out.
但是某些“血迹”是洗不去的。
I know that George H.W. Bush and his oldest son love each other. But it has been a complicated and difficult relationship and a foolishly and fatefully compartmentalized one.
我知道，老布什(George H.W. Bush)与其长子小布什父子情深。但两人的关系一直很复杂，很纠结，且愚蠢而宿命地被划分为不同部分。
Even though both Bushes protested that they didn’t want to be put on the couch, historians will spend the rest of history puzzling over the Oedipal push and pull that led America into disasters of such magnitude.
尽管父子二人都宣称自己不想接受心理分析，但两人之间带有仇父情结色彩的吸引与排斥，让美国陷入了深重的灾难之中，历史学家必定会无休止地对此加以分析解读。
It would be awesome if the book revealed the truth about the fraught relationship between the gracious father and bristly son, if it were titled “Mano a Mano: I Wish I’d Listened to My Dad.”
如果这本书披露了大度的父亲和易怒的儿子之间这段令人忧虑的关系的真相，如果书名是《单挑：真希望我听了老爸的话》(Mano a Mano: I Wish I’d Listened to My Dad)，那会相当出彩。
Because, after all, never in history has a son diminished, disregarded and humiliated a father to such disastrous effect. But W. won’t write any of the real stuff we all want to hear.
毕竟历史上从未有哪个儿子贬低、无视和羞辱父亲，以至带来了这样的恶果。但是小布什不会写那些大家都想看的真正猛料。
The saga began when W. was 26 and drinking. After a rowdy night, the scamp came to his parents’ home in D.C. and smashed his car into a neighbor’s garbage can. His dad upbraided him.
这段传奇开始于小布什26岁，那时他经常喝酒。有一次，这家伙浪荡了一晚之后，来到华盛顿他父母家，把车撞到了邻居的垃圾筒上。父亲训斥了他。
“You wanna go mano a mano right here?” W. shot back to his shocked father.
“你想就在这里和我单挑吗？”小布什朝着惊呆了的父亲顶嘴道。
It was hard, no doubt, to follow the same path as his father, in school, in sport, in war and in work, but always come up short. He also had to deal with the chilly fact that his parents thought Jeb should be president, rather than the raffish Roman candle, W.
在学校里、在运动场上、在战争和工作中追随父亲的道路，但却每次都无法做得那么好，这对他无疑是种打击。而且他还不得不面对一个令人寒心的事实：父母认为杰布(Jeb)应该成为总统，而不是他这个放荡不羁的花架子。
Yet W. summoned inner strength and played it smart and upended his family’s expectations, getting to the governor’s mansion and the Oval Office before his younger brother. But the top job sometimes comes with a tape worm of insecurity. Like Lyndon Johnson with hawkish Kennedy aides, W. surrounded himself with the wrong belligerent advisers and allowed himself to be manipulated through his fear of being called a wimp, as his father had been by “Newsweek.”
然而小布什激发内在力量，巧妙地运筹帷幄，在弟弟之前入主了州长官邸和白宫椭圆形办公室，让家人大感意外。但总统宝座有时也会让人产生一种不安全感。就像林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)和鹰派的肯尼迪助手一样，小布什也错误地让自己置身于一群好战的顾问之间；而且由于害怕被称为“懦夫”，小布什容易受人操纵；他父亲就曾被《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)称为懦夫。
When he ran for Texas governor in 1994 and president in 2000, W. basically cut his father adrift, instead casting himself as the son and heir of Ronald Reagan, the man who bested his father. “Don’t underestimate what you can learn from a failed presidency,” he told his Texas media strategist about his father.
小布什1994年竞选德克萨斯州州长，2000年竞选总统时，基本上与父亲拉开了距离，转而表现得像是罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的子嗣与继承者；而里根曾击败过老布什。“不要小看你可以从一位失败的总统那里学到什么，”在谈到父亲时，他对自己的德克萨斯媒体战略策划者说。
His White House aides made a point of telling reporters that Junior was tougher than his father, pointedly noting he was from West Texas and knew how to deal with “the streets of Laredo.”
他的白宫助手们在接受记者采访时，特别强调小布什比老布什更强悍，若有所指地说他来自西德克萨斯，知道如何应付“拉雷多的街道”。
He was driven to get the second term his father had not had. And he was driven — and pushed by Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld — to do what his dad had shied away from, toppling Saddam Hussein. This, even if it meant drumming up a phony casus belli.
有一种力量推动他去赢得老布什没有获得的第二个总统任期。推动他——在迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)和唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)的说服下——去做老布什当年避免去做的事情：推翻萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)。即使这意味着编造一个虚假的开战理由。
He never consulted his dad, even though H.W. was the only president ever to go to war with Saddam. He treated the former president and foreign affairs junkie like a blankie, telling Fox News’s Brit Hume that, rather than advice on issues, he preferred to get phone calls from his dad saying “I love you, son,” or “Hang in there, son.”
他从来没有征询过父亲的意见，尽管老布什是唯一曾经与萨达姆开过战的美国总统。他对待这位前总统、这位外交高手就像对待一条毯子，他曾对福克斯新闻(Fox News)的布莱特·休姆(Brit Hume)说，自己想从父亲那里得到的不是各种问题的建议，而是“我爱你，儿子”，“坚持下去，儿子”这一类话语。
And he began yelling when his father’s confidante and co-author, Brent Scowcroft, wrote a Wall Street Journal op-ed piece cautioning that invading Iraq wouldn’t be “a cakewalk” and could be destabilizing to the region and mean “a large-scale, long-term military occupation.”
当父亲的密友及书籍合著者布伦特·斯考克罗夫特(Brent Scowcroft)，在《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)上发表观点文章，警告说入侵伊拉克并非“小菜一碟”，而是有可能导致该地区变得不稳定，并且意味着“长期、大规模的军事占领”时，他开始怒吼。
He never wanted to hear the warning that his father was ready to give, so allergic to being a wimp that he tried, against all odds, history and evidence, to be a deus ex machina. He dissed his father on Iraq, saying “he cut and run early,” and he naïvely allowed himself to be bullied by his dark father, Cheney, who pressed him on Saddam: “Are you going to take care of this guy, or not?”
他从来不想听父亲准备给他提供的告诫，而且对于被称为“懦夫”过度敏感，以至于他试图不顾一切困难、历史教训和现实证据，充当起天降救星的角色。他贬低了其父在伊拉克问题上的做法，说：“他动了手，却早早开溜，”另一边，他有一个黑暗的父亲切尼，他很容易被切尼唬住，后者在萨达姆问题上给他施加压力：“你打不打算解决这个家伙？”
As Jon Meacham, the historian who is writing a biography of Bush père, wrote in Time a week ago, H.W. was a man who knew that Woodrow Wilson was wrong in thinking that a big war could end all wars.
一周前，为老布什写传记的历史学家乔恩·米查姆(Jon Meacham)在《时代》(Time)周刊中写道：老布什明白，伍德罗·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)认为“一场大战可以结束所有战争”的想法是错误的。
“The first Bush was closer to the mark when he spoke, usually privately, of how foreign policy was about ‘working the problem,’ not finding grand, all-encompassing solutions to intrinsically messy questions,” Meacham wrote.
“老布什的外交政策更贴近真实情况，他曾表示：外交政策的关键是‘针对问题做些事情’，而不是为那些具有混乱本质的问题找到一个全方位的宏大解决方案；老布什通常在私下这么说，”米查姆写道。
So now, symbolically washing his hands, W.’s putting out this cute little disingenuous book about his father that won’t mention that he bollixed up the globe, his presidency, and marred Jeb’s chances, all because he wasn’t listening to his father or “working the problem.”
所以现在，小布什出版了这本关于他的父亲的可爱的、不真诚的小书，象征性地表示自己不再牵涉政事；书中不会提到自己在担任总统时把全球局势搞得一团糟，也不会提到自己破坏了杰布的机会，而这都是因为他不听父亲的话，即“针对问题做些事情”。
W.’s fear of being unmanned led to America actually being unmanned. We’re in a crouch now. His rebellion against and competition with Bush senior led directly to President Obama struggling at a news conference Friday on the subject of torture. After 9/11, Obama noted, people were afraid. “We tortured some folks,” he said. “We did some things that were contrary to our values.”
小布什害怕自己被当作懦夫，结果导致美国成为了实际上的懦夫：我们现在都站不直了。他对老布什的逆反心理和竞争心态，直接导致了在上周五的新闻发布会上，美国总统奥巴马对拷打囚徒的问题难以应付。奥巴马说，9·11事件后，人们感到害怕。“我们拷打了一些人，”他说。“我们做了一些违背自己价值观的事情。”
And yet the president stood by his C.I.A. director, John Brennan, a cheerleader for torture during the Bush years, who continues to do things that are contrary to our values.
然而，总统仍在支持中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·布伦南(John Brennan)，此人在小布什执政时期是拷打囚徒的支持者，目前仍然在做违背我们价值观的事情。