Alarmed by the spread of polio to several fragile countries, the World Health Organization declared a global health emergency on Monday for only the second time since regulations permitting it to do so were adopted in 2007.
小儿麻痹症已经蔓延至几个脆弱的国家，促使世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)于周一宣布，这已构成全球公共卫生紧急情况。这是自2007年相关规定允许采取此类举措以来，该组织第二次发布紧急公告。
Just two years ago — after a 25-year campaign that vaccinated billions of children — the paralyzing virus was near eradication; now health officials say that goal could evaporate if swift action is not taken.
两年前，也就是为数十亿的儿童注射疫苗的活动开展了25年后，这种致瘫病毒已经接近根除。如今，卫生官员表示，如果不立即采取行动，这一目标可能会落空。
Pakistan, Syria and Cameroon have recently allowed the virus to spread — to Afghanistan, Iraq and Equatorial Guinea, respectively — and should take extraordinary measures to stop it, the health organization said.
世卫组织表示，最近，巴基斯坦、叙利亚和喀麦隆使病毒分别蔓延至阿富汗、伊拉克和赤道几内亚，它们应该采取特别举措阻止病毒蔓延。
“Things are going in the wrong direction and have to get back on track before something terrible happens,” said Gregory Hartl, a W.H.O. spokesman. “So we’re saying to the Pakistanis, the Syrians and the Cameroonians, ‘You’ve really got to get your acts together.’ ”
“情况在向错误方向发展，必须在出现糟糕情况前重归正轨，” 世卫组织发言人格雷戈里·哈特尔(Gregory Hartl)说，“因此，我们要告诉巴基斯坦人、叙利亚人和喀麦隆人，‘你们真的需要行动起来。’”
The declaration, which effectively imposes travel restrictions on the three countries, represented a newly aggressive stance by the health organization. In the past, it has often bent to pressure from member states demanding no consequences even as epidemics raged inside their borders and sometimes slipped over them.
该声明等于对这三个国家采取了旅游限制举措，代表了世卫组织最近的强硬立场。在过去，该组织常常屈服于来自成员国的压力，即便流行病在某国境内疯狂传播，并有时蔓延至其他国家，也不对这些成员国进行问责。
“This is a fundamental shift in the program,” said Dr. Bruce Aylward, the organization’s chief of polio eradication. “This is the countries of the world signaling that they will no longer tolerate the spread of the virus from the countries that aren’t finished.”
“这是该项目中的根本性转变，”世卫组织根除小儿麻痹症项目的负责人布鲁斯·艾尔沃德(Bruce Aylward)博士说，“世界各国发出信号，它们将不再容许那些没有根除病毒的国家向外传播病毒。”
The emergency was declared though the total number of known cases this year is still relatively small: 68 as of April 30, compared with 24 by that date last year.
尽管今年的已知病例数量相对较少——截至4月30日，共有68例，而去年同期发现24个病例，世卫组织仍然宣布进入紧急状态。
What most alarmed experts, Mr. Hartl said, was that the virus was on the move during what is normally the low transmission season from January to April.
哈特尔表示，最让专家担心的是，在1月至4月的传播淡季中，这种病毒仍在蔓延。
“What we don’t want is cases moving into places like the Central African Republic, South Sudan or the Ukraine,” said Rebecca M. Martin, director of global immunization for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which has provided money and expertise to the eradication campaign since it began in 1988.
美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)全球免疫事务负责人丽贝卡·M·马丁(Rebecca M. Martin)说，“我们不希望病毒蔓延至中非共和国、南苏丹或乌克兰等国家。”自1988年该项目启动以来，这个中心一直为根除项目提供资金和专业帮助。
Fighting the virus normally includes several rounds of vaccination of all young children in a target country. But, in an unusual step, the agency also said that all residents of Pakistan, Syria and Cameroon, of all ages, should be vaccinated before traveling abroad, and that this restriction should be retained until one year after the last “exported case.”
抵抗病毒通常需要对目标国家的全部儿童进行数轮疫苗注射。但该机构采取了不同寻常的举措，称巴基斯坦、叙利亚及喀麦隆各个年龄段的居民在出国旅游前，都应注射疫苗，这种限制性举措应该一直保留，直到最后一例“跨国传播病例”出现一年之后。
It also said another seven countries should “encourage” all their would-be travelers to get vaccinated. Those are Afghanistan, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Israel, Nigeria and Somalia.
该组织还表示，其他七个国家应该“鼓励”可能出游的居民接种疫苗。这七个国家包括阿富汗、赤道几内亚、埃塞尔比亚、伊拉克、以色列、尼日利亚和索马里。
Israel has had no confirmed human cases of the disease, but a Pakistan strain of the virus has been detected in sewage in Tel Aviv and elsewhere.
以色列尚未出现人感染病毒的确诊案例，但相关人员已经在特拉维夫及其他地方的污水中检测到来自巴基斯坦的一种小儿麻痹症病毒。
While the W.H.O. has no enforcement power, the regulations are part of a 2007 global health treaty saying all parties “should ensure” that steps it recommends are taken. That applies to Pakistan, Syria and Cameroon. The other seven only need to “encourage” those steps.
虽然世卫组织没有执法权力，但这些规定是2007年公布的全球卫生条约的一部分，该条约规定，各方“应该确保”落实建议举措。以上规定适用于巴基斯坦、叙利亚和喀麦隆。其他七国只需“鼓励”采取此类举措。
But countries could use the document to refuse to admit migrants, visitors or even business travelers who lack vaccination cards.
但各国可以凭借这一文件，拒绝允许那些没有疫苗注射证明的移民、游客或商务旅客入境。
Polio, short for poliomyletis, is a highly contagious virus spread in feces; although only one case in 200 causes symptoms, the hardest-hit victims can be paralyzed or killed. With so many silent carriers, even one confirmed case is considered a serious outbreak. There is no cure.
小儿麻痹症是一种通过粪便传播的高传染性病毒，虽然病毒引发症状的几率仅为二百分之一，但病情严重的患者可能会瘫痪或死亡。由于很多人不知道自己携带病毒，一个确诊病例就会被认为是一次严重爆发。该病无法治愈。
Unlike influenza or other winter viruses, polio thrives in hot weather. Cases start rising in the summer and often explode when the monsoon rains break the summer heat, flooding sewage-choked gutters and bathing the feet of romping children with virus, which they pick up by touching their feet or a ball and then putting a finger in a mouth.
与流感或其他冬季病毒不同，小儿麻痹症在炎热的气候条件下广泛传播。病例数量从夏天开始增长，通常在季风雨消除夏日炎热的时候激增，病毒在满是污水的排水沟中蔓延，污水冲刷着嬉闹玩耍的儿童的脚部，他们碰到脚部或球，然后将手指放到口中，由此感染病毒。
Though the disease primarily strikes children, evidence has mounted that it also crosses borders in adult carriers, such as traders, smugglers and migrant workers.
虽然这种疾病主要侵害儿童，但有越来越多的证据说明，它还会通过成年携带者传播到其他国家，比如商人、走私者和民工。
With 54 of this year’s 68 new infections, Pakistan is by far the riskiest country, Dr. Aylward said. Polio has never been eliminated there, Taliban factions have forbidden vaccinations in North Waziristan for years, and those elsewhere have murdered vaccine teams.
艾尔沃德博士表示，今年共有68个新案例，其中有54例来自巴基斯坦，该国因此成为风险最高的国家。小儿麻痹症在巴基斯坦从未被消除，北瓦济里斯坦的塔利班派别多年来禁止注射疫苗，而且其他地方的塔利班杀害过疫苗团队的成员。
Syria has had only one confirmed case of polio this year, but it had 13 cases last October, the first in the country since 1999.
叙利亚今年只出现了一个确诊病例，但去年10月，该国出现13个病例，这是该国自1999年以来首次出现这种情况。