XIZHOU, China — Brian Linden welcomed the guests to his boutique hotel in one of its courtyards at the end of a cobblestone alley here, surrounded by old stone walls and polished wood balconies.
中国喜洲——布莱恩·林登(Brian Linden)将客人迎进自家精品客栈的一座宅院。客栈位于卵石小巷的尽头，旁边环绕着古老的石墙，还有打磨过的木头阳台。
He invited the group, from Greenwich, Conn., to peruse the hotel’s book collection, which he created years ago as a doctoral candidate in Sinology at Stanford University.
这群客人来自康涅狄格州的格林威治，专程受邀来此鉴赏客栈的藏书。这些书是林登多年前在斯坦福大学读汉学博士的时候收集而来的。
“And if any of you are light sleepers, what I recommend is, turn on the fan for some white noise,” Mr. Linden said. “Because there’s no white noise here at all.”
“对了，如果你们睡觉很轻的话，我建议大家打开电扇，制造白噪音，”林登先生说，“因为这里根本没有天然的白噪音。”
More hotel rooms are being built in China than anywhere else in the world, according to data compiled by STR Global, a market forecaster. At the top end, luxury brands like Aman Resorts and Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts are racing to open new hotels in the country. For some rooms, they are charging China’s emerging superrich the equivalent of more than a thousand dollars a night.
根据市场预测机构史密斯全球旅游研究所(STR Global)收集的数据，目前在建酒店客房最多的国家是中国。高端酒店中，安缦度假村(Aman Resorts)、四季酒店集团(Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts)等奢侈品牌正争先恐后地在中国开设新店。他们的部分客房每晚1000多美元，来服务中国迅速涌现的超富裕人群。
Mr. Linden and other foreign owners of smaller boutique hotels say they would rather offer tourists more distinctive lodging. Like Japan’s ryokans, Italy’s villas and America’s Victorian bed-and-breakfasts, China’s boutique retreats could lure travelers with their link to the past, especially since they have been replaced in major cities by modern buildings.
林登和其他拥有小型精品客栈的外国人表示，他们更倾向于为旅行者提供更有特色的住宿服务。像日本的和式旅馆、意大利的乡村别墅和美国的维多利亚式含早餐旅馆一样，中国的精品客栈也会吸引旅行者与历史建立联系，尤其是在不少大城市的历史建筑都被高楼大厦所取代的时候。
In China’s upscale hotel market, “nobody’s taking the lead to do anything sustainably; all they’re doing is just tapping into a flow of tourists,” Mr. Linden said. “Some people have to come in here and really show China that there are other models, and those people have to be fairly altruistic because when we started, this wasn’t a very lucrative type of project.”
在中国的高端酒店市场，“没有任何人主动做有利于环保的事；他们唯一的目标就是吸引更多的游客，”林登说，“必须有人来到这里，告诉中国人还有其他模式，而且这些人必须充满利他精神，因为我们刚开业的时候，这种项目几乎不怎么赚钱。”
Guests at the smaller independent hotels like Mr. Linden’s include a smattering of wealthy Chinese seeking escape from the bustle of big cities, but the vast majority are foreigners.
林登以及类似小型独立客栈的顾客，一小部分是希望逃离大城市忙乱生活的富裕中国人，但大多数其他人都是外国人。
Mr. Linden’s hotel is comfortable, but he offers few frills. He said that most Chinese who can afford to stay — nightly rates range from 900 to 1,200 renminbi, or about $145 to $195 — typically prefer more luxurious accommodations that include television sets and air-conditioning. The Linden Centre is a 25-minute taxi ride from Dali, a popular Yunnan destination, and a morning’s drive from Lijiang, a city of 1.2 million that is one of China’s largest magnets for domestic tourists.
林登的客栈非常舒适，但很少有华丽而无用的东西。他说，大多数有钱在这里下榻的中国人（房价每晚900至1200人民币，约合145-195美元），往往希望住宿条件再奢华一些，包括电视机和空调。他的喜林苑(The Linden Centre)距离云南热门旅游城市大理有25分钟的车程，而从丽江开车过来则需要一上午的时间。丽江也是云南省的一个热门旅游城市，人口120万，是中国国内旅行者最喜欢的目的地。
Chris Barclay, whose riverside boutique hotel in Guangxi Province features a restored mud-brick barn, said that many of his Chinese guests booked for three nights. But they often leave after the first, out of frustration with the lack of amenities. Local officials are intrigued by his project, Mr. Barclay said, but are amazed that any hotelier would market such humble lodgings to upscale travelers.
在广西将一座泥砖仓库改造成临江精品客栈的克里斯·巴克莱(Chris Barclay)说，许多中国顾客会连订三晚的客房，但常常只住一晚就离开——他们因里面设施太少而倍感沮丧。当地官员对他的项目很感兴趣，但得知他要将如此简朴的住处推向高端旅行者，却表示惊讶。
For the officials, it would be like “building a hotel out of ice in Lapland,” Mr. Barclay said with a laugh. “They’re still trying to process it.”
对当地官员来说，这种做法就像“在拉普兰建一座冰雪旅馆”，巴克莱先生笑言道。“他们仍想对它再做些装修。”
But Huang Yinwu, an architect in Yunnan who for several years led a historical restoration in the Shaxi Valley financed by the Swiss government, said many of the urban Chinese he has met, whether backpackers or high-end travelers, are increasingly open to rustic getaways.
但建筑师黄寅武说，他遇到的许多中国城市居民，不管是背包客还是高端旅行者，都越来越喜欢乡村客栈。黄寅武曾在云南沙溪谷项目的重建项目中工作了几年，这个项目由瑞士政府出资支持。
For now, a handful of foreign hotel operators appear to dominate China’s market for boutique retreats. They acknowledge that their work can be challenging.
现在，外国酒店经营者似乎开始影响中国的精品酒店市场。他们承认，这份工作极具挑战。
It took the Lindens three years to restore their courtyard complex, in part because it is protected by the same national heritage regulations that apply to the Great Wall. The restoration was complicated by jurisdictional battles among local, provincial and national heritage officials, Mr. Linden said.
林登夫妇光是改造那个乡村宅院就花了三年的时间，部分原因是这种住宅受一些国家文物条例所保护，同时受这些条例保护的还有中国长城。林登先生说，住宅改造过程中引发了与地方、省级和国家等各级文物保护部门的法律争端，因而格外复杂。
Mr. Barclay had to negotiate with a village council that opposed his plan to install toilets in his Yunnan Province inn, which was built during the Qing dynasty. (He ended up renovating some nearby public toilets.) It also has taken several years to train his Chinese staff to cater to foreign guests, he said.
巴克莱不得不与一个村委会协商。在将云南省一所清朝建筑改造成客栈的过程中他打算安装抽水马桶，但村委会表示反对。（最后的结果是他不得不装修了几处附近的公共厕所。）他还说，培训中国员工接待外国客人的过程也用了好几年。
And because foreigners are not allowed to own land, those who manage boutique hotels under lease agreements are at the mercy of the local authorities.
此外，鉴于中国禁止外国人在中国拥有土地，这些以租赁方式经营精品客栈的人也受当地管理机关的紧密制约。
As for marketing, the hoteliers say they depend on word of mouth and their Web sites to attract guests, mainly foreigners. Mr. Barclay and Mr. Linden lecture about their work when they travel. And the Lindens have high school exchange programs and allow international scholars to stay free in exchange for giving talks, practices Mr. Linden said helped raise his hotel’s profile.
至于营销，这些客栈老板说，他们通常依赖口碑和自家网站吸引顾客，大部分顾客都是外国人。巴克莱和林登旅行的时候会同时宣传自己的客栈。此外林登夫妇还举办一些高中生交换项目，他们允许国际学者以免费讲课为条件换取在客栈的免费住宿。林登说，这些做法对提高客栈知名度都有所帮助。
Although the number of Chinese guests is slowly increasing, the entrepreneurs say they are not in a hurry to advertise in the mainland market. The boutique hoteliers are all doing well enough by catering to mainly foreign clientele. Mr. Linden said the occupancy rate at the 16-room hotel is now 65 percent to 70 percent. A sister hotel in Xizhou is tentatively scheduled to open next year, and the Lindens are pursuing other projects across Yunnan Province, including one on a tea plantation near the China-Myanmar border.
尽管中国顾客的数量在缓慢增长，但这些实业家们说，他们并不急于在大陆市场进行广告营销。这些精品客栈只靠外国客户就能获得不错的收入。林登说，现在客栈里16间客房的入住率基本能保持65%至70%。他们同时也在苏州创建一家姊妹酒店，明年就开始试营业。此外，林登夫妇还在整个云南境内参与了多个项目，包括中国与缅甸交界处的一个茶叶种植园。
The Lindens’ hotel is far from an authentic representation of China, said Ian Rowen, a geography doctoral candidate at the University of Colorado. However, he said, the Lindens have created a novel and tasteful way to introduce international tourists to Chinese and some ethnic-minority traditions.
科罗拉多大学地理系博士生伊恩·罗文(Ian Rowen)认为，林登夫妇的酒店在中国远远算不上真正的典型。但他说，林登夫妇创造了一种新奇优雅的方式将外国旅行者吸引到中国并近距离观察少数民族的传统生活。
“It’s a good example of the way that heritage tourism can proceed,” said Mr. Rowen, who has worked in China’s tourism industry and conducted academic research at the Lindens’ hotel.
“这是传统旅游运营扩展方式的一个极好范例，”罗文说。研究中国旅游业的罗文专门就林登家的客栈开始了一个学术研究课题。
The Lindens, who also own an art gallery a few hours north of Chicago, discovered their Yunnan property in 2005 while traveling across China in search of a place to begin their dream project.
林登夫妇在芝加哥以北几小时的地方拥有一家画廊。2005年，为了给自己的梦想项目寻找完美地点，他们在全中国范围旅行寻觅，终于在云南发现了这所住宅。
They signed a 20-year lease in 2007. Part of the draw was that the complex, which covers about 3,700 square meters, or nearly 40,000 square feet, had escaped destruction during the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s. But it badly needed a face-lift.
2007年，他们签下了一个20年的租约。这里吸引他们的部分原因是，这个占地3700平方米或将近40000平方英尺的建筑群在20世纪60年代的文化大革命中没有遭到破坏，但的确需要一次全面的修缮。
For the next three years, the couple poured about $600,000 of their savings into a restoration.
接下来的三年中，林登夫妇拿出60万美元的储蓄对宅院进行了修缮。
“We never were building equity in the buildings, because we don’t own them,” Mr. Linden said. “Our equity in the future is really just our brand. And that’s tied so much to Jeanee’s and my story.”
“我们从未因这些房子积累任何财富，因为我们并不拥有它们的产权，”林登说，“我们未来能积累的财产，只是我们的品牌。而这与我和杰妮的人生故事密切相关。”