Former President George W. Bush never mentioned his name but delivered what sounded like a sustained rebuke to President Donald Trump on Thursday, decrying nationalism, protectionism and the coarsening of public debate while calling for a robust response to Russian interference in American democracy.
周四，前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)尽管没提到现任总统唐纳德·特朗普的名字，但听上去却像是在连续指责后者。布什公开谴责民族主义、保护主义和公开讨论变得越来越粗俗的趋势，同时呼吁对俄罗斯干预美国民主做出有力的回应。
In a speech in New York, Bush defended free trade, globalization and immigration even as Trump seeks to raise barriers to international commerce and newcomers from overseas. He condemned the “casual cruelty” he sees in public discourse and denounced white supremacy two months after Trump suggested that “both sides” were to blame at a neo-Nazi rally that turned violent in Virginia.
就在特朗普寻求提高对国际商业和外国人赴美设置壁垒时，布什在纽约的演讲中为自由贸易、全球化和移民进行了辩护。布什谴责了他在公共话语中看到的“漫不经心的残忍”和白人至上主义。两个月前，特朗普称“双方”都应该为弗吉尼亚州那场演变成暴力事件的新纳粹集会负责。
“We’ve seen nationalism distorted into nativism, forgotten the dynamism that immigration has always brought to America,” Bush said. “We see a fading confidence in the value of free markets and international trade, forgetting that conflict, instability and poverty follow in the wake of protectionism. We’ve seen the return of isolationist sentiments, forgetting that American security is directly threatened by the chaos and despair of distant places.”
“我们目睹了民族主义被歪曲成本土主义，忘记了移民一向给美国带来的活力，”布什说。“我们眼看着对自由市场和国际贸易价值的信任逐渐消失，忘记了冲突、动荡和贫穷会跟随着保护主义的脚步而来。我们目睹了孤立主义情绪的回潮，忘记了远方的混乱和绝望会直接威胁到美国的安全。”
The former president said these afflictions have created a crisis of confidence in the United States that has endangered its historic ideals. “In all these ways, we need to recall and recover our own identity,” he said. “Americans have great advantage. To renew our country we only need to remember our values.”
这位前总统说，这些问题在美国造成了一场信心危机，危及美国的历史理念。“综上，我们必须恢复和找回我们自己的身份，”他说。“美国民众有极大的优势。要振兴国家，我们只需要记住我们的价值观。”
Bush addressed these issues at a bipartisan conference that his presidential center sponsored in New York to promote democracy and freedom. Since leaving office in January 2009, he has largely sought to avoid engaging in current-day political struggles, even as he promotes issues he has long cared about like the spread of democracy around the world.
布什是在纽约的一次两党会议上提到这些问题的。会议由他的总统中心赞助举行，旨在促进民主和自由。自从2009年1月下台后，他大部分时候都试图避免参加当前的政治斗争，即便是在宣传他长期重视的问题，比如民主在全世界的传播时。
His speech on Thursday seemed a clear rejoinder to Trump in various ways. Asked by a reporter as he left the hall whether his message would be heard in the White House, Bush smiled, nodded slightly and said, “I think it will.”
他周四的演讲，似乎是在以各种不同的方式明确无误地反驳特朗普。离开礼堂时，一名记者问他，白宫会不会听到他的演讲。布什笑了，轻微点了一下头说，“我想会的。”
The Bush family has never been fond of Trump, who beat former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida for the Republican presidential nomination last year. Neither the former president nor his father, former President George H.W. Bush, voted for Trump last November. But advisers said the younger Bush has been deeply troubled by the state of the national debate under a president who routinely demonizes his adversaries on Twitter.
布什家族一向不喜欢特朗普，他在去年打败了同其争夺共和党总统提名的前佛罗里达州州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)。去年11月，这位前总统和他的父亲、也曾担任总统的乔治·H·W·布什都没有给特朗普投票。但顾问称，对于一个经常在Twitter上妖魔化对手的总统领导下的全国性讨论，这种状态令小布什深感不安。
“Bullying and prejudice in our public life sets a national tone, provides permission for cruelty and bigotry and compromises the moral education of children,” Bush said in his speech. “The only way to pass along civic values is to first live up to them.”
“我们公共生活中的恃强凌弱和偏见定下了一种全国性的基调，为残酷和偏执开了绿灯，而且危及儿童的道德教育，”布什在讲话中说。“传承公民价值观的唯一方式，是首先要自己做到。”
Bush, who issued a statement with his father condemning white supremacists after the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, returned to the theme. “Bigotry or white supremacy in any form is blasphemy against the American creed,” he said.
在弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔8月的暴力事件发生后，布什和父亲共同发表了一份声明，谴责白人至上主义者。在这次会议上，他回到了这个主题。“偏执或任何形式的白人至上主义都是对美国信条的亵渎，”他说。
Along with the conference, the president released a paper examining threats to the liberal democratic order and making recommendations for protecting and strengthening American institutions. The paper was drafted by Peter H. Wehner, a former adviser in Bush’s White House, and Thomas O. Melia, a former State Department official under President Barack Obama.
除这场会议外，这位前总统还公布了一篇论文。文章由布什主政白宫时的顾问彼得·H·魏纳(Peter H. Wehner)和贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)时期的前国务院官员托马斯·O·米利亚(Thomas O. Melia)起草，研究了自由民主秩序面临的威胁，并对保护和加强美国的制度提出了建议。
The conference also featured a panel with two former secretaries of state, Condoleezza Rice and Madeleine K. Albright, joining Nikki Haley, Trump’s ambassador to the United Nations.
这次会议还设有一个小组讨论环节，参与讨论的是两位前国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)和玛德琳·K·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)，以及特朗普的驻联合国大使尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)。
Rice, who served under Bush, and Albright, who served under President Bill Clinton, seemed to gently coach Haley, urging the Trump administration to rethink its cuts to the State Department budget and its approach to the U.N., to protect rather than attack the news media and to make a stronger response to Russian meddling in last year’s election.
分别在布什和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)手下任职的赖斯和阿尔布莱特，似乎在温和地指导黑利，敦促特朗普政府重新考虑对国务院预算的削减和对待联合国的方式、保护而不是攻击新闻媒体，并对俄罗斯干预去年的大选一事做出更有力的回应。
Bush echoed that in his own speech. “America has experienced a sustained attempt by a hostile power to feed and exploit our country’s divisions,” he said. “According to our intelligence services, the Russian government has made a project of turning Americans against each other.” He added: “We must secure our electoral infrastructure and protect our election system from subversion.”
布什也在他的讲话中提到了这一点。“一个敌对国家长期企图激化和利用我国的分歧，”他说。“根据我们的情报机构，俄罗斯政府制定了一个让美国人相互为敌的方案。”他接着说：“我们必须保护我们的选举基础设施，并保护我们的选举制度不被颠覆。”
The former president acknowledged the forces of discontent that have given rise to Trump. “We should not be blind to the economic and social dislocations caused by globalization,” he said. “People are hurting. They’re angry and they’re frustrated. We must hear and help them. But we cannot wish globalization away any more than we could wish away the agricultural revolution or the Industrial Revolution.”
这位前总统承认存在不满的力量，正是它们成就了特朗普的崛起。“我们不应对全球化造成的经济和社会混乱视而不见，”他说。“民众受到了伤害。他们感到愤怒和不满。我们必须倾听他们的声音，帮助他们。但就像农业革命或工业革命一样，我们不能指望全球化消失。”