Q. One of our bedrooms is so small there’s barely enough space for a queen bed. How should I decorate it for showings? Is it better to get rid of the night stands and lamps, or will the room look worse without them?
问：我们有一间卧室太小了，几乎连放下一张皇后尺寸的双人床（queen bed，按美国标准为1.5米宽、2米长的床——译注）的空间都不够。我该怎么装修它，才好展示给来看房的人呢？去掉床头柜和台灯会好些吗，还是那样会让房间看起来更糟糕？
A. Small bedrooms are a relatively common problem, especially in a space-constrained city like New York. But demonstrating that a small bedroom is at least large enough to be functional may help ease a sale, said Linette Semino, an associate broker with Warburg Realty in Manhattan.
答：小卧室是个相当普遍的难题，尤其在纽约这样一个空间资源紧张的大城市。但是，让人们看到一间至少是“麻雀虽小，五脏俱全”的小卧室，可能会有助于你的房子更顺利地出手，曼哈顿地产公司Warburg Realty的助理经纪人利内特·塞米诺(Linette Semino)说。
That means having more than just a mattress in the room.
那就是说，房间里至少要有个床垫。
“You want a lamp,” she said, so there’s some light. And you should have at least one night stand, if not a pair, because “it’s important for buyers to see where they can put their stuff.”
“你还需要一盏台灯，”她说，那样就有了些光线。如果放不下一对床头柜，你至少应该有一个，因为“让买家看到他们能在哪里放他们的东西，是非常重要的。”
Ms. Semino recalled one Upper East Side apartment she helped sell that had a particularly tiny bedroom with a queen bed in it. The room had a closet, she said, “but the door didn’t open the whole way because there wasn’t enough room. You’d have to push the bed aside to open it.”
塞米诺想起她协助卖出的一套上东区(Upper East Side)公寓，其中有间特别小的卧室，还放了一张皇后尺寸的床。房间里是有个衣橱，“但衣橱门无法完全打开，因为没有足够的空间。你必须把床推到一边才能打开门，”她说。 
She helped the seller reconfigure the space by replacing the queen bed with a full-size model, swapping out the closet door for a heavy curtain and adding a small bedside table and lamp. “By making all those changes, people had more room to come in and walk around, so it didn’t feel so tiny,” she said. “An extra few inches really makes the room feel more livable.”
她帮助卖家重新布置了空间，用一张全尺寸双人床（full-size，美国标准是1.4米宽、1.9米长，比皇后床尺寸小——译注）代替了皇后床，把衣橱门换成了帷幕，并增加了一个小床头柜和一盏台灯。“做了所有这些改变以后，房间里有了更多空间，人们可以走进来四下看看、转转，也感觉不是那么小了，”她说，“多出几英寸地方，确实让这间房显得更宜居了。”
Robert Garneau, an architect who owns a New York firm called Studio Garneau, agreed that every bedroom should have a table and a lamp.
罗贝尔·加尔诺(Rober Garneau)是一位建筑设计师，拥有一家名为“加尔诺工作室”(Studio Garneau)的纽约公司，他也认同每间卧室都应该有一个床头柜和一盏台灯。
“When you’re lying in bed, you need a surface for a clock, book, phone or anything else you bring to bed,” he said. “It’s a necessity.”
“当你躺在床上的时候，你需要一个平台来放闹钟、书、电话或其它你要带到床上来的东西，”他说，“这很有必要。”
If there isn’t much floor space, he suggested mounting a fold-down table on the wall. “You can use it when you need it and then stow it away when you don’t,” he said.
如果没有太多地面空间，他建议在墙壁安上折叠床。“你可以在需要的时候使用，不用的时候就收起来，”他说。
Lighting can also be wall-mounted, and there are a number of good options in the Tolomeo range from Artemide, he said. “It can even clip onto the bed.”
灯具也可以安在墙上。Artemide牌的Tolomeo系列灯具中就有很多不错的选择，他说，“你甚至可以把灯夹在床头。”
For something a little more elaborate, consider a headboard with integrated storage and lighting. Or even better, a Murphy bed, which Mr. Garneau has used in a number of his projects.
如果想弄得更精巧完善一些，你可以考虑综合了储物功能与照明功能的床头板，甚至更好一点，还可以用上隐壁床(Murphy bed)。加尔诺已经在他的好几个项目中用到了这种设计。
“Murphy beds are very space-efficient and can quickly de-clutter the space,” he said. “You can hide everything you want inside.”
“隐壁床非常节省空间，而且能迅速清理出空间，”他说，“你可以把自己想藏起来的东西都放在里面。”
In one apartment Mr. Garneau designed, the bed folds down to reveal niches with shelves and lighting on both sides of the mattress. In another apartment, he installed a Murphy bed with a pair of swing-arm lamps behind the headboard.
在加尔诺设计的一套公寓中，隐壁床放下来后，露出了床垫两边装有架子的壁龛和灯具。而在另一套公寓中，他在隐壁床床头板后面，装上了一对旋臂式台灯。
“These solutions don’t compete with the small space,” he said. “They make it feel more generous.” 
“这些方案不会碍于空间的狭小，”他说，“反而会让室内显得更加宽敞。”