What do you do when you love bright color but don’t want to be overwhelmed by it? Hire a designer who works almost entirely in white.
如果你喜欢亮色调，却又不想被过度的色彩淹没，那该怎么办呢？你可以聘请一位几乎只用白色的设计师。
It sounds counterintuitive, but it made sense to Rhonda Weinman, 55, a financial planner with a house on Long Island who asked her friend Peri Wolfman to design an apartment on the Upper West Side.
这听起来不靠谱，但对现年55岁的朗达·温曼(Rhonda Weinman)来说却十分受用。温曼是一名理财规划师，在长岛(Long Island)有套房子。她请来朋友佩里·沃夫曼(Peri Wolfman)，为自己在上西区(Upper West Side)的一套公寓做设计。
Years ago, Ms. Wolfman and her husband, Charles Gold, owned Wolfman-Gold and Good Company, one of the first stores in SoHo to carry tableware in just one color: white. Later, she was the tableware designer for Restoration Hardware, where much of what she produced was white. Her own homes and most of the furnishings are white; even her clothing is primarily white. As she put it, “I’m allergic to color.”
多年前，沃夫曼及其丈夫查尔斯·戈尔德(Charles Gold)开了一家公司，名为Wolfman-Gold and Good Company，这是苏豪区(SoHo)首批仅出售白色餐具的商家之一。后来，她在Restoration Hardware公司担任餐具设计师，在此期间设计的许多作品也都是白色的。她自己的家及家中的多数家具，也都是白色的；就连身上穿的衣服也是白色系。正如她所说的，“我对彩色过敏。”
None of that worried Ms. Weinman, who rents the 500-square-foot studio for $3,500 a month to use as a weekend pied-à-terre. She’s a pro, Ms. Weinman thought. She’ll do what the client wants.
对于这些，温曼都不担心。她每月花费3500美元（约合人民币21267元）租下这套500平方英尺（约合46平方米）的单间公寓，把它当做自己周末的临时住所。她认为沃夫曼是专业人士，会以客户的要求为准。
But when Ms. Weinman told her friend that what she wanted was an apartment decorated in one of her favorite colors, which happen to be fuchsia, purple and turquoise, it was almost a deal-breaker.
但是，当温曼告诉她的朋友，想把公寓装修成自己喜欢的颜色——也就是枚红色、紫色或青绿色当中其一时，这个要求差点让交易泡了汤。
Fuchsia and purple were out of the question. “But I like turquoise,” Ms. Wolfman said. “So I took a deep breath and said, ‘For you, Rhonda, I can do turquoise.’ ”
枚红色和紫色，根本不在考虑之列。“但是我喜欢青绿色，”沃夫曼说，“所以我深吸了一口气说，‘为了你，朗达，我可以用一次青绿色。’”
Ms. Wolfman painted just two areas of the studio that color — the front door and the walls surrounding the sleeping area — so the bed appears to be in a turquoise room of its own. All the other walls are white, and so are the ceilings.
沃夫曼只把这处公寓内的两个区域漆成了青绿色——前门，及环绕就寝区的墙壁。这样一来，给人的感觉，就像床铺被单独放置在了一个青绿色的房间里。其它地方的墙壁则是全白的，天花板也是。
“The ceiling couldn’t be turquoise,” Ms. Wolfman said. “It would have been oppressive.”
“天花板不能漆成青绿，”沃夫曼说，“这会给人压迫感。”
To soften the color, she added pale gray furniture. And in the kitchen, she hung a huge, dark gray aluminum clock.
为使色调更加柔和，她添置了浅灰色的家具。在厨房，她挂了一口巨型的深灰色铝钟。
“I like things oversized in a small apartment,” she said. “It makes it feel like a bigger space.”
“我喜欢在小公寓里布置超大的家具，”她说，“这会让人感觉空间更大一些。”
Ms. Wolfman, who was given an $18,000 budget, finished within a month, from paint and furniture to flatware and bedding, shopping mostly at CB2, West Elm, Wisteria.com and Restoration Hardware. And in September, Ms. Weinman moved in.
沃夫曼拿到了18000美元（约合人民币109375元）的预算。在一个月内，她完成了从刷漆、配家具，到选购餐具、添置床上用品这所有的任务。她主要从CB2、West Elm、Wisteria.com和Restoration Hardware这几家商店采购东西。到了九月，温曼搬进了公寓。
Since then, she has spent nearly every weekend at the apartment. She considers it a personalized version of the hotel rooms where she used to stay when she came to the city. It even has a safe, in a corner of the closet.
从那以后，她几乎每个周末都在这里落脚。以前，她在进城时总会去住酒店客房；而如今，她把这套公寓视作自己个性化的客房。屋里甚至还有一个保险柜，就在衣橱的角落里。
But now, if she moves, Ms. Weinman knows she can take the décor with her. Everything except the turquoise walls.
不过现在，如果要搬走，她知道自己可以把公寓里的装饰也一起带走。除了青绿色的墙壁外，所有东西都可以带走。