TOKYO — THESE days you can hardly open a newspaper or turn on a television in Japan without encountering another story relating to former Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi’s call, after visiting a nuclear waste facility in Finland, for ending Japan’s reliance on nuclear power. Since Mr. Koizumi made his comments in September, Japanese newspapers have been filled with positive editorials about the possibility of a nonnuclear future.
东京——日本前首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)在芬兰参观了一座废弃核电站后，呼吁终结日本对核电的依赖。这一阵子，每每打开报纸或电视，几乎肯定会看到关于这番呼吁的报道。自他在今年9月发表评论以来，日本报纸一直充斥着各种乐观的社论，谈论着无核未来的可能性。
I’m no fan of nuclear power myself, and yet I can’t help feeling that there is something odd about this sudden surge of interest in denuclearization. Until his recent change of heart, Mr. Koizumi was a vocal advocate of nuclear power, much like his protégé, the current prime minister, Shinzo Abe, who engineered the Liberal Democratic Party’s return to power last year on a pro-growth, pronuclear platform.
我本人不是核能痴迷者，然而我情不自禁地感到，公众对无核化的兴趣突然高涨是一件奇怪的事。在最近改变心意前，小泉一直在支持核能，这一点和他的后辈，现任首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)甚为相似。去年，安倍靠推动经济增长和亲核的施政纲领，引领自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)重新执政。
What explains this sudden shift in the winds?
这股风潮的突变该作何解释？
The way I see it, the newfound prominence of antinuclear talk is actually a symptom of a deeper transformation whose contours are only now becoming visible: the slow emergence of a sense that Japan may have entered a post-growth era.
我的看法是，新出现的这股引人注目的反核言论，实际上是发生更深变革的一个前兆，这轮变革的轮廓此刻才刚刚现形：一种意识正在慢慢浮现，即日本或许已经进入了后增长时代。
Until recently, many in Japan have been unable to shake the feeling that this country’s “two lost decades” were a result of some accident, a bad dream from which they would soon awake, and that if only the government had taken bolder actions, the problems that had been plaguing Japan for so long — a strong yen, a shrinking population, high youth unemployment — could have been averted.
直到最近，许多日本人一直无法动摇一种感受，即日本“失落的20年”是某种意外造成的结果，不久后他们就能从这场噩梦中醒来，只要政府采取更大胆的行动，就能够避免长久以来一直困扰日本的问题，包括强势的日元、逐渐萎缩的人口和居高不下的青年失业率。
The notion that strong economic action had to be taken, however belatedly, was just gaining traction when the earthquake and tsunami hit in March 2011, setting off the unprecedented nuclear disaster at Fukushima. All of a sudden, Japan found itself faced with a choice: it could take up the goals of a newly strong movement to denuclearize, accepting the economic costs of having no more relatively cheap energy, or finally implement the pro-growth policies that should, perhaps, have been given a chance decades ago. We could do one or the other, but not both.
地震和海啸灾害于2011年3月袭来，在福岛引发前所未有的核灾难的那一刻，公众也正在广泛接受一定要采取有力措施推动经济的想法，尽管这种想法来得已经有点晚了。突然之间，日本发现自己面临一个抉择，要么就接受一场强大的去核新运动提出的目标，承担起丧失相对低廉的能源所产生的经济损失；要么就最终实行推动增长的政策，或许在几十年前，就应该尝试一下这种政策。我们可以挑选一项，但不能两项都选。
This was the issue at stake in the December 2012 election.
在2012年12月的大选中所涉及的议题，就是这个抉择。
When Mr. Abe pledged to focus on growth powered by nuclear energy, he held out a vision of an alternative to the harsh reality of two decades of economic stagnation. This dream persuaded people to vote for his party, even though more than half the population favored denuclearization.
安倍晋三宣称要把施政重点放在由核能推动的经济增长上，他的这番宣言实际提出了一种与过去20多年经济停滞的严酷现实截然相反的愿景。这个梦想说服了人们为他的政党投票，尽管有超过半数的人口支持无核化。
But now that “Abenomics” — expanding the money supply to spur inflation and push interest rates below zero; pushing the yen down, to revive the country’s once mighty export sector; and increasing the government’s already huge public debt to pay for new investments in infrastructure and research — is no longer just a proposal, but actual policy, the mood has changed. People all around the country — including Mr. Koizumi, I suspect — are becoming anxious about the future of Abenomics. They are coming to realize that the dream of returning Japan to the era of rapid export-led growth between the end of World War II and the late 1980s might not be realistic.
安倍的经济提议涉及扩大货币供应进而刺激通货膨胀，并把利率推到零以下；让日元贬值、重振一度强大的日本出口产业；继续增加规模已然庞大的公共债务，用于负担基础设施建设和研究方面的新投资。然而现在“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)已经不再只是一项提议，而是成了实际的政策，人们的情绪又发生了变化。日本全国上下都对安倍经济学的未来忧心忡忡，我怀疑，其中也包括小泉。他们开始逐渐意识到，梦想可能并不现实，日本无法再回到从二战结束到上世纪80年代之间，经济靠出口推动实现快速增长的那个时期。
It’s true that some indicators are looking up: Exports have risen, as has consumer confidence, and the economy is growing at nearly 2 percent a year. Large companies like Toyota and Nissan are hiring. Salaries are rising. The selection of Tokyo as the site of the 2020 Summer Olympics has energized the population. But rising oil and gas prices brought unprecedented trade deficits in the first half of 2013. Construction for the Olympics will divert workers from critical projects in the areas affected by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. A plan to build a new superfast maglev train between Tokyo and Nagoya — another symbol of the new focus on growth — is meeting with a lukewarm reaction from those who will live near the tracks and from those concerned about the huge amounts of power it will consume.
不错，一些指标正在好转，如出口额出现提升，消费者信心也出现改善，经济年增长率也达到了近2%。丰田(Toyota)和日产(Nissan)等大公司正在招聘，工资出现上涨。东京被选为2020年夏季奥运会(Summer Olympics)主办城市，这让民众大受鼓舞。可是，2013年上半年，上涨的油气价格造成了前所未有的贸易逆差。正在2011年地震和海啸的受灾地区建设关键项目的工人们，也会分流道奥运场馆的施工中去。在东京和名古屋之间新建一条超快速磁悬浮铁路线的计划，本来是关注经济增长的新政策的另一个象征。但居住在铁路沿线的民众，以及那些因耗电量巨大而担忧的民众，对它却反应冷淡。
Whether Abenomics can ever live up to the sky-high expectations of Japanese voters remains to be seen. If the reality of Abenomics turns out not to live up to its promise, why not give the other side a chance? Why not try to break free, once and for all, of our dependence on nuclear energy?
安倍经济学能否满足日本选民极高的期盼依然有待观察。如果安倍经济学的实际情况达不到承诺，为什么不给另一方一次机会？为什么不想办法一次性地彻底摆脱对核能的依赖？
This transformation in the relationship between reality and the alternative, I think, explains Mr. Koizumi’s sudden change of heart. As a senior politician, he has his eye on the future of the L.D.P.: He is marking a new course for a younger generation of politicians so that they can remain in power in case Abenomics does fail. This is also the reason behind the media’s new willingness to discuss denuclearization.
我想，现实和另一种愿景之间关系的转变，解释了小泉为什么会突然改变立场。作为一名资深政治人物，他着眼于自民党的未来：他在为更年轻的一代政治人物标明新路线。如此一来，即使安倍经济学失败了，自民党依然可以继续执政。这也是媒体又愿意讨论无核化背后的玄机。
In other words, people in Japan are beginning to wonder whether those “two lost decades” really were “lost” after all. Perhaps those years were simply the prelude to a new post-growth era. And maybe in this new age the end of economic growth is less scary than the dependence on nuclear power.
换言之，日本人开始琢磨，“失落的20年”是否真的是“失落了”。或许这20年只是后增长时代的一个前奏而已。或许在这个新时代，对核能的依赖，比经济增长的终结更让人害怕。