Dolores O’Riordan, the lead singer of the Irish rock band the Cranberries, died on Monday in London. She was 46.
爱尔兰摇滚乐队小红莓(Cranberries)主唱多洛雷丝·奥莱尔登(Dolores O’Riordan)周一在伦敦去世，终年46岁。
Her death was announced by her publicist, who did not specify the cause.
她的宣传人员宣布了她离世的消息，但没有详细介绍死因。
“Irish and international singer Dolores O’Riordan has died suddenly in London today,” Lindsey Holmes, the publicist, said in an emailed statement, adding that Ms. O’Riordan had been in London for a recording session.
“爱尔兰享誉国际的歌手多洛雷丝·奥莱尔登今天在伦敦突然离世，”名为林赛·霍尔梅斯(Lindsey Holmes)的这名宣传人员在一份通过电子邮件发布的声明中写道，并补充说奥莱尔登去世前一直在伦敦参加录制活动。
The statement said that family members are “devastated to hear the breaking news and have requested privacy at this very difficult time.”
声明称，家人“听到这个突如其来的消息悲痛至极，并请求外界在这个非常困难的时刻尊重他们的隐私”。
A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police said on Monday that the police were called to a Park Lane hotel in Westminster at about 9:05 a.m., and that Ms. O’Riordan was pronounced dead at the scene. Her death is being treated as “unexplained,” the spokeswoman said.
伦敦警察局(Metropolitan Police)的一名发言人周一说，上午大约9点05分，警方在接到报警后到达威斯敏斯特的帕克莱恩(Park Lane)酒店，多洛雷丝·奥莱尔登被当场宣布死亡。这名发言人说，她的死亡被当作 “不明原因”处理。
Ms. O’Riordan wrote lyrics and often music for the Cranberries’ 1990s hits, including “Linger” (which remained on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart for 24 weeks) and “Dreams,” which proclaimed both vulnerability and steadfastness. She was the sole writer of the noisier, angrier “Zombie,” a response to an Irish Republican Army terrorist bombing in 1993.
小红莓在90年代的热门歌曲皆为奥莱尔登作词，作曲也常常是她，包括《徘徊》(Linger)（这首歌在“公告牌100名金曲排行榜”[Billboard Hot 100]的上榜时间长达24周）和同时表达了脆弱和坚定的《梦想》(Dreams)。她也是更嘈杂、更愤怒的《僵尸》(Zombie)唯一的词作者。这首歌是针对爱尔兰共和军(Irish Republican Army)在1993年制造的恐怖主义爆炸而创作的。
In the band, her voice — high and breathy, but far more determined than fragile — rode atop a rich wash of electric guitars. Her unmistakable Irish accent and the Celtic inflections of her melodies gave her singing a plaintive individuality and a flinty core.
在乐队里，她的声音——高亢且带着呼吸声，但更多的是坚定而不是脆弱——盖过了浓郁的电吉他声。明显的爱尔兰口音和凯尔特风格的旋律让她的演唱有一种悲伤的个人特色和冷酷的核心。
The Cranberries were formed in 1989 as the Cranberry Saw Us and renamed the Cranberries after Ms. O’Riordan took over as lead singer in 1990. Along with the brothers Noel Hogan on guitar and Mike Hogan on bass, the band includes the drummer Fergal Lawler.
小红莓1989年成立时叫“小红莓看见我们”(Cranberry Saw Us)。1990年奥莱尔登接任主唱后，乐队改名为小红莓。除吉他手诺埃尔·霍根(Noel Hogan)和贝斯手迈克·霍根(Mike Hogan)兄弟外，乐队成员还包括鼓手费格尔·劳勒(Fergal Lawler)。
The group arrived during the early 1990s ascendance of alternative rock: tuneful, punk-derived, guitar-driven songs that often made their way from college-radio playlists to commercial radio.
乐队成立时，正值90年代初期另类摇滚崛起：曲调优美、发端于朋克、以吉他为主的歌曲常常会从校园电台传唱至商业电台。
Four of the group’s albums reached the Billboard Top 20.
小红莓共有四张专辑进入公告牌的前20。
Female rock singers like Sinead O’Connor and Harriet Wheeler of the Sundays had recently preceded the Cranberries on the pop charts, and the band also drew deeply on the musical example of the Smiths, the 1980s band that propelled warm, rounded guitars and confessional lyrics with post-punk drumming. The Cranberries’ 1993 debut album, “Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can’t We?,” which included the career-making hits “Linger” and “Dreams,” and the 1994 album “No Need to Argue,” with “Zombie,” were both produced by the Smiths’ producer, Stephen Street.
在小红莓之前，已有西妮德·奥康纳(Sinead O’Connor)和周日乐队(Sundays)的哈丽雅特·惠勒(Harriet Wheeler)等女性摇滚歌手登上流行音乐榜。该乐队深受史密斯乐队(Smiths)的影响。后者是80年代的一支乐队，用后朋克风格的鼓乐搭配温暖、圆润的吉他声和告白式的歌词。小红莓1993年发表的首张专辑《别人都这样，为什么我们不行》(Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can’t We?)和1994年的专辑《无需再争论》(No Need to Argue)皆由史密斯乐队的制作人斯蒂芬·斯特里特(Stephen Street)担任制作。前者收入的歌曲包括让乐队扬名立万的名曲《徘徊》和《梦想》，后者收入了《僵尸》。
After “Zombie,” the Cranberries lost much of their pop audience as their late-1990s albums grew harsher and more concerned with sociopolitical messages than with love songs. The Cranberries disbanded in 2003. In 2007 Ms. O’Riordan released her first solo album, “Are You Listening?”
在《僵尸》之后，随着乐队在90年代末的专辑变得更加严肃，更关心传递社会政治信息而不是爱情歌曲，小红莓失去了很多流行音乐歌迷。2003年，乐队解散。2007年，奥莱尔登发表了首张个人专辑《你在听吗》(Are You Listening)。
In an interview published in The Guardian last year, Ms. O’Riordan described how the band wrote “Linger,” its first song together. “I wrote about being rejected,” she said. “I never imagined that that it would become a big song.”
在去年《卫报》(The Gardian)的一篇采访中，奥莱尔登描述了乐队一起创作第一首歌《徘徊》时的情景。“我写了被拒绝的经历，”她说。“我做梦都没想到它会成为大热门。”
In 1996, Neil Strauss, a pop music critic for The New York Times, described Ms. O’Riordan as a performer who can “sing almost anything and make it seem musical.”
1996年，《纽约时报》的流行音乐乐评人尼尔·斯特劳斯(Neil Strauss)称奥莱尔登是一位“几乎什么都能唱，并能把它变得像音乐一样”的表演者。
Ms. O’Riordan’s death was also announced on the group’s Twitter account, where fans shared messages of mourning and of the impact that the group’s music had on their lives.
乐队的Twitter账号也宣布了奥莱尔登的死讯。在该账号下，粉丝们纷纷发帖表示哀悼，并讲述该乐队的音乐对自己生活的影响。
“She was part of my DNA, the soundtrack to my life,” wrote one, Michael Traboulsi.
“她是我DNA的一部分，是我生活的背景乐，”一个名为Michael Traboulsi的用户写道。
Ms. O’Riordan was born on Sept. 6, 1971, and grew up in the Ballybricken area of County Limerick, Ireland. In 1994, she married Don Burton, a former tour manager for Duran Duran; the couple divorced in 2014. She is survived by her three children, Taylor, Molly and Dakota, and her mother, Eileen O’Riordan.
奥莱尔登生于1971年9月6日，在爱尔兰利默里克郡的巴里布里肯地区长大。1994年，她和杜兰杜兰乐队(Duran Duran)的前巡演经纪人唐·伯顿(Don Burton)结婚。2014年，两人离婚。她身后留下了三个孩子，分别是泰勒(Taylor)、莫利(Molly)和达科塔(Dakota)，还有她的母亲艾琳·奥莱尔登(Eileen O’Riordan)。
Six years after the Cranberries’ split, the group reunited and began touring again. But last year, the band canceled dates on its European and North America tours due to Ms. O’Riordan’s ongoing back problems.
解散六年后，乐队成员重新聚集在一起，再次开始巡演。但去年，乐队因奥莱尔登持续存在的背部问题取消了欧洲和北美巡演。
“There have been some comments suggesting that Dolores could perform if she sat while singing. Unfortunately it is not as simple as that,” a statement on the group’s Facebook page said then.
当时，发布在乐队Facebook页面上的一份声明说，“一些评论说如果能坐着唱，多洛雷丝就可以表演。遗憾的是没有那么简单。”
The Cranberries released the acoustic album “Something Else” in 2017 and had plans to perform shows in Europe and North America. But the tours were cut short or canceled because the band said that singing put pressure on the parts of her spine that were giving her so much pain.
小红莓在2017年发表了原声专辑《其他》(Something Else)，并计划在欧洲和北美演出。但这些巡演被缩短或取消，因为乐队说演唱导致奥莱尔登的部分脊柱承受压力，让她疼痛难忍。