Xiaomi, the Chinese handset maker that has been nicknamed the “Apple of China,” doesn’t view itself as an Apple copycat. But it is an unabashed Apple admirer.
手机制造商小米被称为“中国的苹果”，却并不认为自己在抄袭苹果(Apple)。不过，它的确是个毫不掩饰的苹果崇拜者。
Hugo Barra, a Xiaomi vice president who was a Google executive, said in an on-stage interview on Tuesday at a tech conference in Laguna Beach, Calif., that he was a “huge Apple fan.” And he said that Xiaomi’s designers are inspired by great design, including Apple’s, but so are all designers.
周二，在加利福尼亚拉古纳海滩举行的一次科技大会上，曾担任谷歌高管的小米副总裁雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)在舞台上接受采访时说，他是“苹果的铁杆粉丝”。他还说，小米的设计师受到了伟大设计的启发，其中包括苹果的设计，但所有设计师都是如此。
Mr. Barra said the iPhone 6, which he called the “most beautiful smartphone,” is no exception. Its designers borrowed some ideas from past smartphones made by HTC, he said. He added that Apple’s iOS 8 took some ideas from the Android software system and made them even better.
巴拉称，iPhone 6也不例外。他把这款手机称作“最漂亮的智能手机”。他说，iPhone 6的设计师从HTC制造的旧款智能手机上汲取了一些灵感。他还表示，苹果的iOS 8从Android软件系统上获得了一些想法，并对这些想法进行了优化。
“Point me to a new product that had completely unique design language,” Mr. Barra said. “You’re not going to be able to find one.”
“请告诉我，哪一款新产品拥有完全不同的设计语言，”巴拉说。“你肯定找不到。”
Mr. Barra was responding to comments made by Jony Ive, Apple’s head of design, at a conference earlier this month. An audience member had asked Mr. Ive how he felt about companies that appear to be copying Apple, including Xiaomi.
巴拉是在回应苹果设计负责人乔纳森·艾夫(Jonathan Ive)本月早些时候在一次会议上发表的评论。一名观众曾问艾夫如何看待小米等似乎在抄袭苹果的公司。
Mr. Ive’s response was harsh: “I think it’s theft, and it’s lazy.”
艾夫的回答很尖刻：“我认为这就是抄袭，是偷懒。”
Critics have accused Xiaomi of blatantly copying Apple, from the design of Apple products to the way Apple introduces products at events. When introducing new products, Xiaomi’s chief executive Lei Jun even dresses in jeans and dark shirts, similar to the iconic outfit repeatedly worn by the late Steven P. Jobs.
批评人士指责小米对苹果进行了公然抄袭，从苹果产品的设计到苹果的新品发布会都是如此。每当推出新产品时，小米的首席执行官雷军甚至也会穿上牛仔裤和黑上衣，这与已经过世的史蒂芬·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)经常穿着的标志性服装很相似。
Still, Mr. Barra encouraged people to try Xiaomi’s products instead of leaping to the conclusion that the company is a copycat.
不过，巴拉还是鼓励人们尝试小米的产品，不要仓促得出结论，认为小米在抄袭。