PARIS — Celebrity spottings were somewhat scarce at the men’s wear shows here in Paris last week: Zayn Malik, a former One Direction boy bander at Valentino (along with the now-ubiquitous Joe Jonas), Courtney Love and Kris Jenner at Givenchy, Adam Driver and Dave Franco at Dior.
巴黎——不知为何，在上周的巴黎男装秀上，名人不是太多：单向乐队(One Direction)的前成员泽恩·马利克(Zayn Malik)和如今无处不在的乔·乔纳斯(Joe Jonas]一起)出现在华伦天奴(Valentino)的发布会上；柯妮·拉芙(Courtney Love)和克里斯·詹纳(Kris Jenner)出现在纪梵希(Givenchy)的发布会上；亚当·德赖弗(Adam Driver)和戴夫·弗兰科(Dave Franco)出现在迪奥(Dior)的发布会上。
Still, heads did turn for Amar’e Stoudemire, the towering 32-year-old Dallas Mavericks center-forward who was working as a fashion correspondent for Esquire magazine. Show after show, he sat in the front row, decked out in designer duds, doing backstage interviews with designers and — far more frequently — getting interviewed by fashion reporters.
不过，阿玛雷·斯塔德迈尔(Amar’e Stoudemire)的确广受瞩目。32岁的斯塔德迈尔是达拉斯小牛队的中锋，在发布会上担任《Esquire》杂志的时尚记者。他穿着设计师服装，坐在一场又一场时装秀的前排，光彩照人。还去后台采访设计师，不过更多的时候，是被时尚记者们采访。
Mr. Stoudemire certainly has his look down.
当然，斯塔德迈尔的确仪表非凡。
On Wednesday afternoon, he was at Raf Simons’s show in a decrepit warehouse on the outskirts of town wearing a Raf Simons sweater and a pair of well-fitted army-green cargo pants.
周三下午，他身穿拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)针织套衫和合身的军绿色工装裤出现在拉夫·西蒙斯的时装秀上。该时装秀在巴黎郊外一个破旧的仓库举行。
On Thursday morning, Mr. Stoudemire was at Rick Owens in a black Saint Laurent top hat, a gold chain necklace, a black Ovadia & Sons blazer, a gray Rick Owens T-shirt, gray Rick Owens shorts, a gold Rolex, and a black and gold Cartier ring about the size of a candy bar.
周四上午，斯塔德迈尔戴着圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)黑色大礼帽、金项链、劳力士(Rolex)金表和糖块大小的卡地亚(Cartier)黑金戒指，身穿Ovadia & Sons黑色上衣、瑞克·欧文斯(Rick Owens)灰色T恤和灰色短裤，出现在瑞克·欧文斯的时装秀上。
His wife, Alexis, sat behind him in a green Cushnie et Ochs sheath with a Dior purse around her neck.
他的妻子亚历克西丝(Alexis)坐在他后面，身穿Cushnie et Ochs绿色紧身衣，挎着迪奥手包。
Both are positively in love with fashion.
很明显，他们两个都爱上了时尚。
“Rick Owens is my favorite, Balmain, and Riccardo Tisci at Givenchy,” Mr. Stoudemire said, when asked of the designers he hews to. “There are other great brands out there from Lanvin to Raf Simons. You could go on and on.”
“瑞克·欧文斯是我最喜欢的设计师。还有巴尔曼(Balmain)和纪梵希的里卡多·提西(Riccardo Tisci)，”被问及他钟爱的设计师时，斯塔德迈尔说。“还有其他一些很棒的牌子，从朗万(Lanvin)到拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)。一下子说不完。”
Mrs. Stoudemire ran down her list: “Rick Owens is one of my favorites. Isabel Marant, Christian Dior.” She pointed at her small purse.
他的妻子接着说出自己最喜欢的设计师：“瑞克·欧文斯是我最喜欢的设计师之一。还有伊莎贝尔·马兰特(Isabel Marant)和克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)。”她一边说一边指着自己的小手包。
The first to begin dressing Mr. Stoudemire when he was with the New York Knicks, starting in 2010, was Calvin Klein.
2010年，斯塔德迈尔开始在纽约尼克斯队(New York Knicks)打球时，最先为他设计服装的是卡尔文·克莱恩(Calvin Klein)。
“They were able to articulate my style, and I was able to get a few free customized, tailor-made suits, which was great,” Mr. Stoudemire said.
“他们能明确表达我的风格，我能得到一些免费的定制西服，这很棒，”斯塔德迈尔说。
Later, Vogue did a feature on Mr. Stoudemire, pairing him with the writer Hamish Bowles, with whom he shot hoops. Mr. Stoudemire began attending the Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and he even joined the benefit committee. He released a collection of women’s clothes at Macy’s that were described in the notes for reporters as “courtside apparel for the fashion-forward female.”
后来，《Vogue》杂志发表了一篇关于斯塔德迈尔的特写，让他和作家哈米什·鲍尔斯(Hamish Bowles)搭档，一起拍摄投篮的照片。斯塔德迈尔开始参加大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)的时装学院慈善晚宴(Costume Institute Gala)，甚至还加入了它的慈善委员会。他在梅西百货公司(Macy’s)发布了一个女装系列，在给记者的介绍中他说这个系列“是为时尚先锋女性设计的球场边服装”。
Along with all this came lots and lots of swag, which Mr. Stoudemire was happy to receive, since it isn’t exactly easy for a 6-foot-10, 245-pound guy to find clothes. Even one with an American Express black card and an N.B.A. contract.
这些活动伴随着很多贵重礼物，斯塔德迈尔很乐意接受它们，因为对一个高6英尺10英寸（约为2.08米）、重245英镑（约合222斤）的男人来说，找到合适的衣服不是那么容易。尽管他拥有美国运通(American Express)黑卡和NBA合同，也不容易。
“I’m a slim frame, so I’m able to buy a few things,” he said, “but from a length standpoint, it begins to get a little difficult.”
“我比较瘦，所以能买到一些衣服，”他说，“但是从身高角度讲，就有点困难了。”
In a certain way, the fashion world’s synergistic relationship with Mr. Stoudemire is emblematic of a larger shift in the industry.
在某种意义上，时尚界与斯塔德迈尔的协作关系代表了行业的一项重大转变。
Ten to 15 years ago, the business wasn’t exactly a bastion of diversity. Aside from GQ, magazines at Condé Nast and Hearst thoroughly underrepresented black people on the covers of their magazines. Big-name designers seldom featured prominent black celebrities in campaigns.
10至15年前，时尚业不能算是多样化的堡垒。除了《GQ》，康泰纳仕集团(Condé Nast)和赫斯特出版集团(Hearst)旗下的杂志很少在封面上选用黑人。著名设计师很少在广告宣传中选用黑人明星。
But today, Rihanna is appearing in recent campaigns for Balmain and Dior. Victor Cruz, the New York Giants’ wide receiver, who describes himself as half black and half Hispanic, was announced this month as the face of Givenchy’s fall 2015 men’s campaign.
但是如今的情况大不相同。前不久，蕾哈娜(Rihanna)出现在巴尔曼和迪奥的广告中。本月，纪梵希宣布，纽约巨人队(New York Giants)的外接手维克托·克鲁兹(Victor Cruz)将担任该品牌2015年秋季男装广告的代言人。克鲁兹称自己有一半黑人血统，一半西班牙血统。
Black basketball players, like Mr. Stoudemire, are frequent front-row guests at fashion shows. (In fact, another N.B.A. star, Russell Westbrook, was at almost as many shows here in Paris as Mr. Stoudemire. He even showed up at Colette to debut a shoe line and an eyewear collaboration with the influential Paris boutique.)
斯塔德迈尔等黑人篮球明星是时装秀上的头排常客（实际上，另一位NBA明星拉塞尔·韦斯特布鲁克[Russell Westbrook]在巴黎出席的时装秀几乎和斯塔德迈尔一样多。他甚至还出现在科莱特精品店[Colette]，参加与这个著名精品店合作设计的一个鞋子系列和一款眼镜的首发活动）。
“Fashion is something you can express yourself in in any multicultural atmosphere,” Mr. Stoudemire said. “Anyone can be into fashion, whether they’re African-American or Asian descent, what have you. I think we all can play an integral part in fashion.”
“在任何一种多元文化环境中，你都能通过时尚表达自己，”斯塔德迈尔说，“任何人都能进入时尚业，不管是非裔、亚裔或别的种族。我认为我们都能成为时尚界必不可少的一部分。”
And Mr. Stoudemire said he was enjoying being a fashion correspondent.
斯塔德迈尔说他很喜欢担任时尚记者。
“I’m going to go interview Rick Owens after the show,” he said on Thursday. “I went to interview Raf yesterday.”
“时装秀结束后，我要去采访瑞克·欧文斯，”周四他说。“昨天我采访了拉夫。”
How did it go?
采访进行得怎么样？
“He was great,” Mr. Stoudemire said of Mr. Simons. He added that he also had interviewed Phillip Lim: “His inspiration comes from America. So that was great to hear.”
“他很棒，”提到西蒙斯时，斯塔德迈尔说。他补充说，他还采访了林能平(Phillip Lim)：“他的灵感来自美国。这让人高兴。”
In fact, because of his duties covering the collections, Mr. Stoudemire missed the N.B.A. draft last week. Although that may be just fine. The clothes there always leave something to be desired. “They’re horrible,” he said. “Nobody has any personal style.”
实际上，因为要报道时装秀，斯塔德迈尔错过了上周的NBA选秀。不过也许那没关系。那里的衣服总有改进的空间。“那些衣服很糟糕，”他说，“谁都没有个人风格。”
But time with Mr. Stoudemire had run out.
但是斯塔德迈尔的时间不多了。
“Ladies and gentlemen, can you please uncross your legs,” a voice over a loudspeaker boomed, indicating that the show was about to begin and that people were obstructing the photographers’ views.
“女士们、先生们，请不要跷二郎腿好吗？”扬声器里传来这样的声音，表明时装秀马上就要开始了，不要挡住摄影师的视线。
Mr. Stoudemire pulled out his iPhone and turned back to ask a friend behind him a question: “Do you know what Rick Owens’s Instagram is?”
斯塔德迈尔拿出iPhone，转身问后面的朋友：“你知道瑞克·欧文斯的Instagram账号吗？”
He had work to do.
他有功课要做。