Just last year, Xiaomi was a relatively obscure Chinese handset maker. But last quarter, Xiaomi was the top smartphone seller in the largest handset market in the world: China.
就在去年，小米还是一家相对不太知名的中国手机生产商。但是上个季度，在中国这个全球最大的手机市场，小米成了智能手机销量冠军。
A report published on Monday by Canalys, the technology research company, highlighted Xiaomi’s remarkable growth, surpassing giants like Samsung and Lenovo to become the top player in China. Because of its huge growth in China, Xiaomi became the fifth largest smartphone maker in the world.
科技调研公司Canalys本周一发布了一份报告，强调了小米引人瞩目的增长：它赶超了三星(Samsung)和联想等巨头，成为中国排名第一的手机生产商。由于在中国实现了巨大增长，小米成了全球第五大智能手机生产商。
Canalys said that over the second quarter, Xiaomi shipped 15 million smartphones in China, up from 4.4 million in the same period a year ago. Xiaomi beat Samsung, which sold 13.2 million smartphones in China last quarter, down from 15.5 million in the same period a year ago, according to the report.
Canalys表示，今年第二季度，小米智能手机在中国的出货量达1500万部，而去年同期为440万部。根据报告中的数据，小米击败了三星：上个季度，三星在中国销售了1320万部智能手机，而去年同期为1550万部。
Over all, Xiaomi grew 240 percent, compared with the second quarter last year, to take 14 percent of the Chinese smartphone market.
总体而言，小米较去年第二季度增长了240%，目前占中国智能手机市场14%的份额。
How did that happen so fast? Chris Jones, an analyst for Canalys, said that while most Chinese handset makers competed on price, Xiaomi took a different path to its branding, marketing and sales strategy.
它怎么会发展得如此快？Canalys的分析师克里斯·琼斯(Chris Jones)说，虽然大多数中国手机厂商都在拼价格，但小米在品牌推广、市场营销和销售策略上采取了与众不同的做法。
To lure customers, Xiaomi focuses on offering special software that customers cannot get with other Android devices. The company offers a customized version of Android, called Miui, which customers can help design by giving feedback online; the company releases a new version of the operating system every Friday to keep fans excited.
为了吸引顾客，小米把侧重点放在了提供特制软件上，而用户无法从其他Android设备上获得这些软件。公司推出了一个定制的Android版本，称为Miui。用户可以通过在线反馈来帮助改进MIUI的设计，而公司每周五会发布新的MIUI版本，以维持粉丝群的兴奋度。
Xiaomi sells its phones for nearly the same amount it costs to buy and assemble the materials. But it sells the phones for up to a year and a half, giving time for the components’ price to fall. To make money, Xiaomi focuses on selling apps, games and special Android themes and Internet services.
小米出售手机硬件的价格，相当于材料成本加组装费。但它销售手机的周期可长达一年半，这期间手机部件的价格会下降。为了赚钱，小米把侧重点放在销售应用、游戏，以及特别的Android主题和互联网服务上。
For marketing, Xiaomi runs festivals to show appreciation to so-called Mi fans. Its chief executive, Lei Jun, who has been nicknamed by Chinese media as the Steve Jobs of China, has helped generate a lot of attention for the company.
在市场营销方面，小米会举办各种庆祝活动，向“米粉”表示感激。小米首席执行官雷军被一些中国媒体称为“雷布斯”。他帮助公司吸引了大量的关注。
“They’ve really changed the look of the Chinese market,” Mr. Jones said. “These guys did something different.”
“他们已经真正改变了中国市场的面貌，”琼斯说。“这帮人独树一帜。”
Last year, Xiaomi also poached an important Google executive, Hugo Barra, which has been particularly helpful, Mr. Jones said.
去年，小米还挖来了谷歌的重量级高管雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)。琼斯认为，此举对小米的帮助特别大。
Mr. Barra, who was a vice president for Google’s Android division, has used his industry clout to help Xiaomi form new partnerships with carriers and expand into other markets, he said. The company this year announced plans to expand into 10 new markets, including Malaysia, the Philippines, India, Indonesia, Brazil and Turkey.
巴拉曾是谷歌的Android部门副总裁。琼斯说，他运用自己的行业影响力，帮助小米与多家运营商达成了新的合作伙伴关系，并将触角延伸到其他市场。小米公司今年宣布，计划将业务扩展至10个新市场，其中包括马来西亚、菲律宾、印度、印尼、巴西和土耳其。