In a country where products like iPhones are made but rarely invented, Lei Jun — entrepreneur, multimillionaire and professed Jobs acolyte — is positioning himself and his company as figurative heirs of Mr. Jobs. The Chinese media have nicknamed his company, Xiaomi, the “Apple of the East.”
很多像iPhone这样的产品是在中国生产的，但极少有哪一个是在中国发明的。在这里，雷军作为一个企业家、亿万富翁，直言不讳地表示自己崇拜乔布斯，现在他把自己和他的公司比作乔布斯的继承人。中国媒体给他的公司小米，取了一个“东方苹果”的绰号。
The title is a stretch, by almost any measure. But Mr. Lei nonetheless is carefully cultivating a Jobsian image here, right down to his jeans and dark shirts. He is also selling millions of mobile phones that look a lot like iPhones. Chinese consumers — and deep-pocketed investors overseas — seem to be believers.
这个称号无论从哪一方面看都有些牵强，不过雷军还是在精心塑造着乔布斯式的形象，一直到牛仔裤和深色T恤衫，他也在出售数百万台酷似iPhone的手机。中国消费者，以及资金雄厚的海外投资者，似乎都是他的信徒。
And yet Mr. Lei’s biggest believer may be himself. He bounds onto podiums to introduce new cellphones. He proclaims things that may, to many, sound outlandish. For instance:
然而雷军最大信徒，或许是他自己。他大步走上讲台，介绍新款手机。他还会宣称一些很多人听来会显得怪异的事情。例如：
“We’re making the mobile phone like the PC, and this is a totally new idea,” Mr. Lei, Xiaomi’s chief executive, said during an interview at the company’s spacious, high-rise headquarters here. “We’re doing things other companies haven’t done before.”
“我们是在像做PC一样做手机，这可是一个全新的想法，”小米公司的首席执行官(CEO)雷军，在该公司空间宽敞的总部大厦接受采访时说。“我们在做其他公司过去都没有做过的事。”
That might come as a surprise to Apple and Samsung Electronics, the twin giants of smartphones. But Xiaomi (pronounced SHAO-mee) did sell $2 billion in handsets in China last year. It is emerging as a force in China, the world’s largest mobile phone market, and it expects its revenue to double this year.
在苹果公司(Apple)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)这两家智能手机巨头听来，这种说法或许令人吃惊。但小米去年的确在中国售出了价值20亿美元的手机，在这个世界最大的手机市场，它正在崛起为一支重要的力量，该公司预期今年的利润还会翻一番。
Mr. Lei, for his part, hardly discourages comparisons to Apple and Mr. Jobs. And why would he? Founded by a group of Chinese engineers three years ago, his company sold seven million mobile phones last year by using designs that mimic the look and feel of the iPhone and using marketing that seems right out of Apple’s playbook.
雷军本人绝不介意被人比作苹果和乔布斯。为什么要介意呢？三年前一群中国工程师成立了这家公司，而去年雷军的公司售出了700万台手机。小米运用了效仿iPhone的外观和体验的设计，也似乎直接照搬了苹果的营销方式。
It’s no surprise that entrepreneurs aspire to create a Chinese Apple. Many talk about moving China beyond the dead end of assembling devices for other companies.
企业家立志打造中国的苹果这一点并不奇怪，许多人都在谈论让中国走出为其他公司组装设备的死胡同。
So far, however, true innovators have been scarce. At best, they have adapted others’ technology to the Chinese market.
然而迄今为止，真正的创新还少之又少，充其量只是对别人的技术进行改造，移植到中国市场。
Mr. Lei has attracted believers because no company’s annual revenue has reached the $1 billion mark in China faster than Xiaomi, not even Amazon, which took five years to get there. Xiaomi did it while earning a profit.
雷军吸引信徒的原因是，在中国没有哪一家公司能比小米更快地达到年收入10亿美元，连亚马逊(Amazon)都花了五年才达到这一步。小米不仅做到了这一点，而且还实现了盈利。
Its backers include Qiming Venture Partners, the venture capital arm of Qualcomm and Digital Sky Technologies, an investment firm run by Yuri Milner, an early backer of Facebook, Groupon and Zynga.
小米的投资者包括启明创投(Qiming Venture Partners)、高通(Qualcomm)的风险投资部门，以及尤里·米尔纳(Yuri Milner)经营的数码天空科技公司(Digital Sky Technologies)，后者也是Facebook、Groupon和Zynga的早期投资人。
Xiaomi, which is privately held, says an initial public offering is years away. But the company is worth $4 billion, according to its latest round of financing last June.
小米公司现在仍由私人持有，该公司表示，距离首次公开发行(IPO)仍有数年之久，不过按去年6月的最近一轮融资估算，该公司的价值已经达到40亿美元。
If that valuation holds up, it would make Xiaomi one of China’s most valuable technology companies, behind Alibaba, Baidu, Tencent and Netease.
如果这个估值是正确的，那么小米就会成为中国最有价值的科技企业之一，位列阿里巴巴、百度、腾讯和网易之后。
The company caters to young, college-educated people who want a smartphone but cannot quite afford one, people like Lu Da, a 26-year-old education consultant in Shanghai.
小米迎合了那些想要智能手机，但又不太买得起的受过大学教育的年轻人。比如像路达（音译），他今年26岁，是上海的一名教育咨询师。
“I chose Xiaomi because it’s good value for the money,” he said.
他说，“我选择小米是因为它性价比很高。”
Skeptics say the company produces low-price iPhone imitations with no significant software or hardware advantages. They also say the company faces stiff challenges from Apple and Samsung, which are in a position to offer low-price smartphones.
持怀疑态度者称，该公司生产的是廉价的iPhone模仿品，没有明显的软件或硬件优势。他们还说，小米面临着苹果和三星的巨大挑战，后两家公司已经准备好推出廉价的智能手机产品了。
The marketing power of bigger local handset makers like Lenovo, Huawei and Taiwan’s HTC, which together recently sold about 25 percent of all smartphones in China, cannot be discounted either.
规模更大的本土手机制造商，如联想(Lenovo)、华为，以及台湾的HTC所具有的市场力量亦不容小视。这些企业最近在中国智能手机市场的总份额达25%。
Whether the company succeeds, its rise has solidified Mr. Lei’s reputation as a start-up wizard. Part entrepreneur and part start-up investor, he spent more than a decade at the Chinese software company Kingsoft and took it public in 2007. (He remains chairman and holds a $300 million stake.)
无论公司是否成功，它的崛起都巩固了雷军初创企业魔法师的名声。他既是一名企业家，又是一名初创企业投资者。他在中国的金山软件公司(Kingsoft)供职十多年时间，让这家企业在2007年上市。他仍是该公司的董事长，持有3亿美元股份。
He also invested in a string of successful software and Internet companies, including YY, an online social platform that went public on the Nasdaq stock exchange in the United States last year and is now worth about $1.5 billion. One of Mr. Lei’s earliest successes came in 2004, when Amazon paid $75 million to acquire his e-commerce company Joyo.com.
他还投资了一系列成功的软件和互联网公司，包括YY语音。这是一个在线社交平台，去年在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市，目前市值约15亿美元。雷军最早期的成功之一是在2004年，当时亚马逊支付了7500万美元来收购他的电子商务公司卓越网(Joyo.com)。
“Lei Jun is a phenomenal entrepreneur,” said Kai-Fu Lee, the former Google executive who now runs Innovation Works, a Beijing-based firm that invests in Chinese start-ups. “He’s insightful about user needs and markets, and now he has this incredible desire to create a household brand in technology.”
李开复(Kai-Fu Lee)曾是谷歌公司(Google)高管，现在经营着创新工场(Innovation Works)，这家位于北京的公司致力于投资中国的创业公司。“雷军是一名非凡的企业家，”李开复说。“他对用户需求和市场很有洞察力，现在他表现出了一种不可思议的渴望，要创造出一个家喻户晓的科技品牌。”
Mr. Lei has revealed little about his personal life, but he has nearly five million followers on Sina Weibo, a sort of Chinese Twitter, and is treated like a celebrity in technology circles.
雷军对自己的个人生活并未透露太多，不过他在新浪微博（类似于中国的Twitter）上拥有近500万名粉丝，并被人们当做科技圈中的名人。
He grew up near Wuhan, a gritty industrial city in central China, and studied computer science at Wuhan University. It was during college, in 1987, he says, that he read a book about Mr. Jobs, and decided to emulate him.
他在中国中部的武汉附近长大，这是一座有着坚韧性格的工业城市，并在武汉大学学习计算机科学。他说，在1987年上大学期间，他读了一本关于乔布斯的书，于是决定要效仿乔布斯。
“I was greatly influenced by that book, and I wanted to establish a company that was first class,” Mr. Lei said. “So I made a plan to get through college fast.”
“我深受那本书的影响，希望建立一家一流的公司，”雷军说。“因此我制定了一个迅速从大学毕业的计划。”
After finishing his coursework in two years, he joined Kingsoft, a Chinese software company. A talented engineer with sharp marketing skills, he worked his way up into the executive ranks, and was named chief executive in 1998.
在用两年时间完成学业后，他加入了中国的金山软件公司。作为一名具有精明营销技巧，且有才华的工程师，他通过努力一步步晋升到高管级别，并在1998年被任命为CEO。
At Kingsoft, he also found time to set up Joyo.com and to become an angel investor in dozens of other companies.
在金山软件，他还抽时间建立了卓越网，并作为天使投资人投资了数十家其他企业。
“He has vision,” said Liu Ren, a longtime friend who runs an investment fund. “He sees trends earlier than others and is always ready to adjust. For instance, Joyo started as a downloading platform and at the beginning YY was just doing RSS subscription.”
“他很有眼光，”雷军的一个老朋友，经营一家投资基金的刘韧说。“他总是能比别人更早地看到趋势，并总是准备进行调整。例如，卓越网开始时只是一个下载平台，而YY开始时只是在做RSS订阅。”
With $41 million in initial financing, Mr. Lei teamed up with a former Microsoft and Google engineer, Bin Lin, and five other engineers to set up Xiaomi in a small office on the outskirts of Beijing.
在4100万美元的启动资金支持下，雷军与微软(Microsoft)和谷歌的前工程师林斌，以及其他5名工程师在北京郊区的一间小办公室里建立了小米。
Work began in 2010 on a software platform for the phone adapted from Google’s Android system. The company also sought out many of the same suppliers and contract manufacturers that worked with Apple, including Qualcomm, Broadcom and Foxconn.
2010年，该公司开始了研发一款基于谷歌Android系统的手机软件平台的工作。该公司还找到了许多与苹果合作的供应商和代工制造商，包括高通(Qualcomm)、博通(Broadcom)和富士康(Foxconn)。
In August 2011, Xiaomi introduced its first smartphone, the Mi-1, which sold out in two days. The Mi-2 was released last August, and sold out so quickly that some analysts claimed Xiaomi was creating artificial shortages to generate buzz through “scarcity marketing.”
在2011年8月，小米推出了首款智能手机小米1，两天时间就销售一空。小米2去年8月发布，很快就销售一空，以至于一些分析人士称，小米故意制造短缺，通过“饥饿营销”来产生轰动效应。
To lower costs, the company cut out middlemen and distributors, selling directly through its Web site. The marketing was not just innovative for China, the company said, but allowed Xiaomi to sell smartphones for just half the price of the iPhone or Samsung Galaxy phones.
为了降低成本，该公司跳过了中间人和分销商，通过其网站直接销售。该公司表示，其营销模式不仅对中国而言是创新，而且还让小米能以iPhone或三星Galaxy手机一半的价格出售智能手机。
Xiaomi also outsources designs and features online from its so-called Mi-Fans, and releases a new version of the operating system every Friday, to add new features and keep the Mi-Fans excited.
小米还把设计和功能在网上外包给所谓“米粉”，并在每周五发布一个新版本的操作系统，从而增加新功能，并且保持米粉们的兴奋度。
“For a start-up it’s quite impressive what they’ve achieved,” Sandy Shen, an analyst at the research firm Gartner, said. “But the question is: how are they going to grow their market share beyond the narrow segment they’ve targeted?”
“对于一家初创企业来说，他们所获得的成就相当令人瞩目，”高德纳(Gartner)分析师沈哲怡(Sandy Shen)说，“但问题是：怎样才能突破目前瞄准的狭窄客户群，扩大市场份额？”
Many technology analysts and investors in China say that the company’s valuation is a bubble and that it will be difficult for Xiaomi to maintain its growth.
中国的许多技术分析师和投资者都说，这家公司的估值是一个泡沫，而且小米很难维持其发展。
Mr. Lei insists his company could sell more than 15 million phones this year. Xiaomi — like Apple — is also looking at television.
雷军坚持称，他的公司今年可以销售超过1500万部手机。和苹果一样，小米也在关注电视。
Mr. Lei, listed by Forbes as one of China’s wealthiest entrepreneurs, worth $1.7 billion, has already helped create three multibillion-dollar start-ups in the last decade. Little wonder, then, that he comes across as confident, even a little cocky.
雷军被《福布斯》(Forbes)列为中国最富有的企业家之一，净值17亿美元，他已经在过去十年里帮助建立了3家价值数十亿美元的初创企业。因此，他给人留下自信甚至有点自大的印象也不奇怪。
“We’re not just some cheap Chinese company making a cheap phone,” he said. “We’re going to be a Fortune 500 company.”
“我们可不是那种制造廉价手机的廉价中国公司，”他说。“我们要成为一家财富500强企业。”