Shirley Temple Black, who as a dimpled, precocious and determined little girl in the 1930s sang and tap-danced her way to a height of Hollywood stardom and worldwide fame that no other child has reached, died on Monday night at her home in Woodside, Calif. She was 85.
本周一晚，秀兰·邓波儿·布莱克(Shirley Temple Black)在位于加利福尼亚州伍德赛德的家中去世，享年85岁。上世纪30年代，这个脸带酒窝、意志坚定的早熟小女孩曾凭借踢踏舞和歌声一路晋身为好莱坞(Hollywood)的顶尖明星，获得了别的孩子从未企及的世界名望。
Her publicist, Cheryl Kagan, confirmed her death.
她的公关人员谢里尔·凯根(Cheryl Kagan)确认了她的死讯。
Mrs. Black returned to the spotlight in the 1960s in the surprising new role of diplomat, but in the popular imagination she would always be America’s darling of the Depression years, when in 23 motion pictures her sparkling personality and sunny optimism lifted spirits and made her famous. From 1935 to 1939 she was the most popular movie star in America, with Clark Gable a distant second. She received more mail than Greta Garbo and was photographed more often than President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
布莱克曾在上世纪60年代重新成为焦点人物，当时担当的是一个令人惊讶的新角色，那就是外交官。不过，在大众想象之中，她永远都是大萧条(Depression)时代的美国甜心，那时候，她在23部电影中展现的闪亮个性和阳光般的乐观精神振奋了人们的精神，也成就了她的盛名。从1935年到1939年，她一直是美国最受追捧的电影明星，连克拉克·盖博(Clark Gable)都被远远地抛在了第二。她收到的邮件比葛丽泰·嘉宝(Clark Gable)还多，被拍照的频率也超过了时任总统富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)。
The little girl with 56 perfect blonde ringlets and an air of relentless determination was so assured that the usually unflappable Adolphe Menjou, her co-star in her first big hit, “Little Miss Marker,” described her as “an Ethel Barrymore at 6” and said she was “making a stooge out of me.”
这个小女孩拥有56个完美的金色发卷，浑身散发着坚韧不拔的气息，她是如此自信，以至于通常处变不惊的阿道夫·门吉欧(Adolphe Menjou)都形容她是“6岁的埃塞尔·巴里摩尔(Ethel Barrymore)”，还说她“正在让我成为配角”。门吉欧和邓波儿联袂出演了她的第一部热门力作《小小马克小姐》(Little Miss Marker)。
When she turned from a magical child into a teenager, audience interest slackened, and she retired from the screen at 22. But instead of retreating into nostalgia, she created a successful second career for herself.
她从一个魔力四射的孩子成长为十几岁少女的时候，观众们的兴趣下降了，而她22岁就退出了影坛。不过，她没有沉湎于往日的荣光，而是为自己成功地开创了第二职业。
After marrying Charles Alden Black in 1950, she became a prominent Republican fund-raiser. She was appointed a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969. She went on to win wide respect as the United States ambassador to Ghana from 1974 to 1976, was President Gerald R. Ford’s chief of protocol in 1976 and 1977, and became President George H. W. Bush’s ambassador to Czechoslovakia in 1989, serving there during the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe.
1950年，她和查尔斯·奥尔登·布莱克(Charles Alden Black)成婚，之后成了一名杰出的共和党筹款人。1969年，理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统任命她出任联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)代表。她在1974到1976年间担任美国驻加纳大使，继续赢得了广泛的尊重，又在76到77年间担任杰拉尔德·R·福特(Gerald R. Ford)总统的礼宾司司长，还在1989年成为了乔治·H·W·布什(George H. W. Bush)政府的美国驻捷克斯洛伐克共和国大使，她履职期间，见证了共产主义在东欧的衰落。
After winning an honorary Academy Award at the age of 6 and earning $3 million before puberty, Shirley Temple grew up to be a level-headed adult. When her cancerous left breast was removed in 1972, at a time when operations for cancer were shrouded in secrecy, she held a news conference in her hospital room to speak out about her mastectomy and to urge women discovering breast lumps not to “sit home and be afraid.” She is widely credited with helping to make it acceptable to talk about breast cancer. Shirley Jane Temple was born in Santa Monica, Calif., on April 23, 1928. From the beginning, she and her mother, Gertrude, were a team (“I was absolutely bathed in love,” she remembered); her movie career was their joint invention. Her success was due to both her own charm and her mother’s persistence.
秀兰·邓波儿6岁就赢得了奥斯卡特别金像奖(honorary Academy Award)，青春期之前就赚到了300万美元（约合1800万元人民币）。在此之后，她成长为一名头脑冷静的成年人。1972年，她切除了患癌的左乳，在那个人们对癌症手术遮遮掩掩的时代，她却在病房里举行了一场新闻发布会，坦承她接受了乳房切除术，并敦促发现乳房肿块的女性不要“满心恐惧地坐在家里”。人们广泛认为，她发挥了不小的作用，使得乳癌成为一个可以谈论的话题。秀兰·简·邓波儿(Shirley Jane Temple)于1928年4月23日出生在加州的圣莫尼卡。从一开始，她就和母亲格特鲁德(Gertrude)亲密无间（她曾经如是回忆，“我彻彻底底地沐浴在爱中”）；她的银幕生涯是她和母亲的共同成就。她的成功既源于她自身的魅力，也源于母亲的坚持。
In “Child Star,” her 1988 autobiography, Mrs. Black said her mother had made a “calculated decision” to turn her only daughter into a professional dancer. At a fee of 50 cents a week, Mrs. Temple enrolled 3-year-old Shirley in Mrs. Meglin’s Dance Studio.
在1988年出版的自传《童星》中，布莱克说，她的母亲作出了“深思熟虑的决定”，要把自己唯一的女儿变成一名职业舞者。邓波儿夫人帮3岁的秀兰报名参加了美格林(Meglin)夫人的舞蹈工作室，每周的费用是50美分。
Her career began in earnest in 1934, when she was picked to play James Dunn’s daughter in the Fox fantasy “Stand Up and Cheer,” one of many films made during the Depression in which music chases away unhappy reality. She was signed to a two-week contract at $150 a week and told to provide her own tap shoes.
1934年，她的职业生涯正式开始，当时，她被20世纪福克斯影业公司(Fox)的奇幻电影《起立欢呼》(Stand Up and Cheer)选中，在片中饰演詹姆斯·杜恩(James Dunn)的女儿，这是大萧条时代的许多电影中的一部，在这些影片中，音乐会把不如意的现实赶走。她签了两周的合同，报酬是每周150美元，制片方还通知她，她得自带踢踏舞鞋。
Within an hour of completing her song-and-dance number “Baby, Take a Bow,” she was formally placed under contract to Fox for a year at $150 a week. The studio had an option for seven more years and would pay Gertrude Temple an additional $25 each week to take care of her daughter.
完成《宝贝答谢》(Baby, Take a Bow)里的歌舞表演还不到一个小时，她就和福克斯签订了一年期的正式合同，报酬为每周150美元。该工作室拿到了续约七年的优先选择权，并且每周给格特鲁德·邓波儿额外支付25美元，让她照顾自己的女儿。
In its review of “Stand Up and Cheer” (1934), Variety called Shirley Temple a “sure-fire potential kidlet star.” She made eight movies in 1934 and moved from potential to full star in February, when Fox lent her to Paramount for “Little Miss Marker,” based on a Damon Runyon story.
在对1934年影片《起立欢呼》发表的影评中，《综艺》(Variety)杂志称秀兰·邓波儿是一名“潜力十足、铁定能红的童星”。她在1934年拍了八部影片，来年2月就从潜力新星摇身变成了巨星，当时，福克斯公司把她借给派拉蒙影业公司(Paramount)拍摄《小小马克小姐》，该片以达蒙·鲁尼恩(Damon Runyon)的故事为蓝本。
It is no surprise that Shirley Temple dolls were the best-selling dolls of the decade (and are valuable collectibles now). In many of her films she was a living doll, adored by entire groups of men: aviators in “Bright Eyes," a Yankee regiment in “The Little Colonel” (1935).
以秀兰·邓波儿为原型的洋娃娃是那10年里最畅销的洋娃娃（目前也是珍贵的收藏品），这一点也不奇怪。在她出演的许多影片中，她就是一个活生生的洋娃娃，被成群成群的男人崇拜，比如《亮眼睛》(Bright Eyes)里的飞行员和《小上校》(The Little Colonel)里的南联盟军团。
No Shirley Temple movie was complete without a song — most famously “On the Good Ship Lollipop” and “Animal Crackers in My Soup” — and a tap dance. Her most successful partnership was with the legendary African-American entertainer Bill (Bojangles) Robinson. She may have been the first white actress allowed to hold hands affectionately with a black man on screen, and her staircase dance with Mr. Robinson in “The Little Colonel,” the first of four movies they made together, retains its magic almost 80 years later.
歌曲和踢踏舞是秀兰·邓波儿电影的必备元素，最著名的歌曲则是《好船棒棒糖号》(On the Good Ship Lollipop)和《汤里的动物饼干》(Animal Crackers in My Soup)。她最成功的拍档是非洲裔美国艺人比尔·“博杰格”·罗宾逊(Bill “Bojangles”Robinson)。她也许是获准在银幕上深情握着黑人男性手掌的第一位白人女演员。她和罗宾逊在《小上校》里表演的那段楼梯舞蹈，在近80年后的今天依然魅力犹存。该片是二人合作的四部影片里的第一部。
After the failure of “The Blue Bird” (1940), a film version of the Maeterlinck fantasy that Fox expected to be the bonanza MGM's “Wizard of Oz” had been a year earlier, the studio dropped 12-year-old Black's contract. Even before the movie was released, her mother had decided it was time for Black, who had been educated in a schoolroom at Fox, to go to a real school.
1940年出品的《青鸟》(The Blue Bird)失利之后，福克斯公司放弃了和12岁的布莱克之间的合同。《青鸟》是根据梅特林克(Maeterlinck)的幻想故事改编的电影，福克斯希望它能像米高梅电影公司(MGM)一年前拍摄的《绿野仙踪》(Wizard of Oz)一样走运。甚至早在《青鸟》上映前，布莱克的母亲就决定，是时候让布莱克去上真正的学校了，此前，她一直在福克斯的一间教室里接受教育。 
She entered the private Westlake School for Girls in seventh grade, with little idea of how to cope. She had sat on 200 famous laps and found J. Edgar Hoover's the most comfortable. Amelia Earhart had shared chewing gum with her. She had conversed with Eleanor Roosevelt. The Brown Derby restaurant in Hollywood had created the Shirley Temple — a nonalcoholic drink of lemon-lime soda, grenadine and a maraschino cherry — in her honor. But her playmates had been few and carefully chosen.
她进入了私立的韦斯特莱克女子学校(Westlake School for Girls)读七年级，几乎不知道该如何应付学校生活。之前她曾坐在200位名人的膝上，并且发现J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)的腿最舒服。阿梅莉亚·埃尔哈特(Amelia Earhart)曾和她分享口香糖。她曾和埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)交谈。好莱坞的布朗德比饭店(Brown Derby)还调制出一款名为秀兰·邓波儿的饮料，向她致敬——这是一种不含酒精的饮料，混合了柠檬苏打、石榴糖浆和一枚浸酒樱桃。然而，她在学校里的玩伴很少，而且经过小心的挑选。
At Westlake, after months of being given the cold shoulder, she decided she might as well be herself. She eventually spent a happy five years there.
在韦斯特莱克女子学校，遭遇了几个月冷遇的邓波儿决定，不妨做真实的自己。最终，她在那里度过了五年的幸福时光。
What Fox had dropped, MGM picked up eight months later. But the little girl was now entering adolescence. On her first visit to MGM, Black wrote in her autobiography, the producer Arthur Freed unzipped his trousers and exposed himself to her. Being innocent of male anatomy, she responded by giggling, and he threw her out of his office.
八个月后，米高梅将福克斯放弃的邓波儿招至麾下。但那时，这个小姑娘即将进入青春期。布莱克在自己的自传中写道，第一次去米高梅时，制片人阿瑟·弗里德(Arthur Freed)拉开了自己的裤子拉链，面向邓波儿暴露身体。对男性身体一无所知的她咯咯地笑了起来，然后就被弗里德赶出了办公室。
She made “Kathleen” (1941) for MGM and “Miss Annie Rooney” (1942) for United Artists; played supporting roles for David O. Selznick in two 1944 films and made “Kiss and Tell” on loan to Columbia in 1945. But her golden hair had turned brown and, as the film historian David Thomson observed, she had become “an unremarkable teenager.” The public had lost interest.
她分别为米高梅和United Artists拍摄了《凯瑟琳》(Kathleen, 1941）和《安妮·鲁尼小姐》(Miss Annie Rooney, 1942），又在1944年的两部影片中为大卫·O·塞尔兹尼克(David O. Selznick)饰演配角，并在1945年被借给哥伦比亚电影公司(Columbia)，拍摄了《亲吻与诉说》(Kiss and Tell)。不过，她的金发已经变成了棕色，而且正如电影历史学家大卫·汤姆森(David Thomson)指出的那样，她已经变成了“一个普通的少年”。公众失去了兴趣。
By then she was a strong-willed, chain-smoking 17-year-old. Determined to be the first in her Westlake class to become engaged, she had accepted a ring from a 24-year-old Army Air Corps sergeant, John Agar Jr., a few days before her 17th birthday. They were married on Sept. 19, 1945.
那时，她已经是一个意志坚强、烟不离手的17岁少女了。她决意成为韦斯特莱克学校班级里第一个订婚的的人，于是在离17岁生日还有几天的时候收下了24岁的陆军航空队(Army Air Corps)中士小约翰·阿加尔(John Agar Jr.)的戒指。两人于1945年9月19日结婚。
Unable to handle being Mr. Shirley Temple, Mr. Agar began drinking excessively. While his wife was appearing in “The Bachelor and the Bobby Soxer” with Cary Grant and Myrna Loy and “That Hagen Girl” with Ronald Reagan, Mr. Agar began an acting career of his own. He went on to appear in several low-budget movies, in support of John Wayne in a few westerns and war films, and on television. But he failed to achieve anywhere near as much success as she had.
阿加尔无法应对身为秀兰·邓波尔先生的生活，于是开始大量饮酒。在妻子与加里·格兰特(Cary Grant)和玛娜·洛伊(Myrna Loy)合演《单身汉与时髦女郎》(The Bachelor and the Bobby Soxer)，并与罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)合演《哈根家的那个女孩》(That Hagen Girl)时，阿加尔也开始了自己的演艺生涯。他出演了几部低成本电影，在几部西部片和战争片饰演约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)的配角，还上了电视。然而，他从未取得与妻子相近的成就。
They were divorced in December 1949, a year after the birth of their daughter, Susan. Less than 60 days after her divorce, Miss Temple, 21, met and became engaged to Charles Alden Black, the 30-year-old assistant to the president of the Hawaiian Pineapple Company, who claimed he had never seen a Shirley Temple movie. They were betrothed after a 12-day courtship. Their marriage lasted almost 55 years, until his death in 2005.
1949年12月，女儿苏珊(Susan)出生一年之后，两个人离了婚。离婚还不到60天，21岁的邓波儿就遇到了夏威夷菠萝公司(Hawaiian Pineapple Company)30岁的总裁助理查尔斯·阿尔登·布莱克(Charles Alden Black)，还和他订了婚。这名总裁助理称自己之前从未看过秀兰·邓波尔的电影。两人订婚前只交往了12天。他们的婚姻持续了将近55年，直到查尔斯·阿尔登·布莱克2005年去世。
Mr. Black, who was dropped from the San Francisco Social Register for marrying an actress, told a reporter in 1988: “Over 38 years I have participated in her life 24 hours a day through thick and thin, traumatic situations, exultant situations, and I feel she has only one personality. She would be catastrophic for the psychiatric profession. You can wake her up in the middle of the night and she has the same personality everybody knows. What everybody has seen for 60 years is the bedrock.”
1988年，因为娶了一个女演员而被旧金山社交登记册(San Francisco Social Register)除名的布莱克告诉记者：“38年来，我参与了她生活中的分分秒秒，我们同甘共苦，共同经历痛苦和喜悦，并且觉得她的个性始终如一。她会是精神病学行业的灾难。即使你在深更半夜叫醒她，她表现出来的也是人所共知的那种个性。60年来，大家看到的都是她的本色。”
Mrs. Black had left the movies for good by Dec. 6, 1950, when she married Mr. Black. A son, Charles Alden Jr., was born in 1952; a daughter, Lori Alden, in 1954.
1950年12月6日嫁给布莱克时，邓波儿彻底告别了电影业。两人的儿子小查尔斯·阿尔登(Charles Alden Jr.)和女儿洛里·阿尔登(Lori Alden)分别于1952年和1954年出生。
By the early 1960s she was president of the Multiple Sclerosis Society and co-founder of the International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis Societies, raising funds to fight the disease that afflicted her brother, George. She was representing the federation in Prague on Aug. 21, 1968, when Soviet and Warsaw Pact tanks rolled in and brought to a premature end Alexander Dubcek’s effort to remodel the Communist system.
上世纪60年代初，她已经成为多发性硬化症协会(Multiple Sclerosis Society)的主席和国际多发性硬化症协会联盟(International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis Societies)的联合创始人，为抗击她哥哥乔治(George)感染的这种疾病募集资金。1968年8月21日，当苏联和华约(Warsaw Pact)的坦克开进布拉格，让亚历山大·杜布切克(Alexander Dubcek)改革共产主义制度的努力夭折时，她正在代表该联盟访问布拉格。
For many years the Black family lived in the San Francisco area, where she was active in civic and community affairs. She worked particularly hard for the development of the San Francisco International Film Festival, but she resigned from the festival’s executive committee in 1966 in protest against a decision to show the Swedish film “Night Games,” which she called “pornography for profit.”
布莱克一家在旧金山地区生活了很多年。在那里，邓波儿积极参与公民和社区事务。她格外努力地推动了旧金山国际电影节(San Francisco International Film Festival)的发展，但却在1966年辞去了在电影节执行委员会的职务，为的是抗议展演瑞典电影《夜间游戏》(Night Games)的决定。她说那部电影是“唯利是图的色情片”。
Mrs. Black had become interested in politics when she lived in Washington. In 1967 she ran for Congress to fill a seat left vacant by the death of the Republican J. Arthur Younger. She hoped to emulate the California political successes of George Murphy, her dancing partner in “Little Miss Broadway,” who had become a United States senator, and Ronald Reagan, her co-star in “That Hagen Girl,” who had become governor.
住在华盛顿时，布莱克夫人开始对政治感兴趣。她曾在1967年竞选国会议员，希望填补众议员J·阿瑟·扬格(J. Arthur Younger)逝世留下的空缺。她希望效仿《百老汇小姐》(Little Miss Broadway)中的舞伴乔治·墨菲(George Murphy)和《哈根家的那个女孩》中的搭档罗纳德·里根，在加州取得政治上的成功。墨菲当上了参议员，里根则成了加州州长。
A backer of the Vietnam War, she lost to a more moderate Republican, Pete McCloskey, in the suburban 11th Congressional District south of San Francisco. It probably did not help that the bands kept playing “On the Good Ship Lollipop” at her campaign stops.
在位于旧金山南郊的第11国会选区，支持越战的她输给了更温和的共和党人皮特·麦克洛斯基(Pete McCloskey)。在她的竞选活动现场，乐队连续演奏《好船棒棒糖号》，可能也没起到好作用。
But Mrs. Black pressed on with her decision to have a new career in public service. In 1969, President Nixon appointed her to the five-member United States delegation to the 24th session of the United Nations General Assembly. She acquitted herself well by all accounts, speaking out about the problems of the aged, the plight of refugees and, especially, environmental problems.
尽管如此，布莱克夫人还是决定继续在公共服务中开启新事业。1969年，尼克松总统任命她出任美国五人代表团成员之一，参加联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)的第24届大会。从各个方面来看，她都尽到了自己的职责。她在会上大声疾呼，谈到了老龄人口问题和难民的困境，尤其是环境问题。
When she was appointed ambassador to Ghana in 1974, some career diplomats were outraged, but State Department officials later conceded that her performance was outstanding.
当她于1974年被任命为驻加纳大使时，一些职业外交官很是愤怒，但后来，国务院官员也承认她的表现很出色。
Among her duties as the government’s chief of protocol was heading a one-week training program for new envoys. She flashed her wit in describing it: “We teach them how to get used to being called Ambassador and having Marines saluting. Then, on Day 3, we tell them what to do if they’re taken hostage.”
担任政府礼宾司司长期间，她的职责之一就是对新大使进行为期一周的培训。介绍这个培训项目时，她展现了自己的风趣：“我们教他们如何适应大使的头衔，坦然接受海军陆战队的敬礼。然后，在培训的第三天，我们会告诉他们，如果被劫为人质应该怎么办。”
When she arrived in Prague as ambassador — a post usually reserved for career diplomats — she discovered that there had been a Shirley Temple fan club there 50 years earlier. Officials brought “Shirleyka” old membership cards to autograph. Having been Shirley Temple was extremely helpful to Shirley Temple Black, she told reporters, “mainly because it provides name identification,” although she added that it had “little bearing on whether I succeed or fail thereafter.”
以大使——这个职位通常由职业外交官专享——身份抵达布拉格时，她发现那里50年前就有了一个秀兰·邓波尔粉丝俱乐部。官员们拿着“Shirleyka”的老旧会员卡来让她签名。她告诉记者，秀兰·邓波儿的身份给了秀兰·邓波儿·布莱克极大的帮助，“主要是因为它提供了身份信息”。不过她补充说，它“几乎没有影响我之后在那里的成败”。
Mrs. Black succeeded beyond almost everyone’s expectations, winning praise during her three years in Prague from, among others, Henry Kissinger, who called her “very intelligent, very tough-minded, very disciplined.” It was a fitting tribute to a woman who had left the screen at 22 saying she had “had enough of pretend.”
在布拉格任职的三年里，布莱克的成功超出了几乎所有人的预期，赢得了亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)等人的称赞。基辛格称她“很有智慧，意志很坚强，很自律”。对一个22岁便毅然离开银幕、说自己“过够了假扮生活”的女性来说，这是一份恰如其分的赞美。