TAIPEI — Fresh from poaching a top Google executive to lead its global expansion plans, the Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi on Thursday announced another jaw-dropper: a 3-D television with a 47-inch screen, capable of hooking up to Internet, all for less than $500.
台北——中国智能手机制造商小米刚刚挖来谷歌(Google)的一名高管领导其全球扩张计划，周四又发布了另一个令人震惊的消息，推出了47英寸3D电视。这款电视能够连接网络，售价不到500美元（约合3000元人民币）。
Xiaomi unveiled the set, called the MiTV, in Beijing, describing it as a “smart” TV that operates with the Android mobile operating system. The display panels are made by Samsung or LG, the South Korean companies that dominate the global television business.
小米在北京发布了这款名为MiTV的电视，称其为一款“智能”电视，使用的是Android移动操作系统。 电视显示屏由三星(Samsung)或LG制造，这两家韩国公司在全球电视业务中占据主导地位。
The introduction of the MiTV follows the news last week that Xiaomi had hired Hugo Barra, an executive in Google’s Android operation, to spearhead its growth in export markets. The move drew considerable attention because Xiaomi until now has focused on China, where its smartphones have overtaken Apple’s iPhone in market share.
推出MiTV之前，上周有新闻报道称小米已经聘用谷歌Android业务高管雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)，引领小米在出口市场的发展。此举引起广泛关注，因为小米到目前为止一直以中国市场为主。在中国 ，小米智能手机的市场份额已经超过苹果(Apple)的iPhone。
Xiaomi on Thursday also unveiled a new smartphone, the Mi3. It is packed with features, including a 5-inch screen, a five-megapixel camera and processors from Nvidia or Qualcomm. Though plans for international availability were not detailed, this is presumably the device with which the company intends to take beyond the Middle Kingdom.
周四，小米还发布了一款新的智能手机，小米3。它功能齐全，包括一个5英寸的屏幕、一个500万像素的照相机和来自Nvidia或高通(Qualcomm)的处理器。尽管小米没有详述小米3的海外销售计划，但这款手机想必就是该公司用以实现走出中国市场目标的利器。
A version of the phone with 16 gigabytes of storage will be sold for 1,999 yuan, or about $327, while a 64-gigabyte version costs 2,499 yuan. That is less than half the typical price of an Apple iPhone 5.
配备16G内存的小米3手机售价是1999元人民币，配备64G内存的版本售价为2499元人民币。这个定价还不到苹果(Apple)iPhone 5的典型价格的一半。
The Xiaomi TV also looks like a bargain, though this appears to be a made-for-China product, at least for now.
小米电视看上去也像是个性价比很高的商品，尽管这是一款看似为中国市场定制的产品，至少目前如此。