HONG KONG — Xiaomi, the smartphone start-up that showed the potential and the limits of a new generation of Chinese technology companies, is losing its most familiar global face.
香港——智能手机初创企业小米展现了新一代中国科技公司的潜力和局限性，现在它正失去其最广为人知的全球代言人。
On Monday, Hugo Barra, a Google veteran who ran Xiaomi’s global division, said he planned to resign and return to Silicon Valley. Mr. Barra became the global face of Xiaomi, a little-known phone maker as it became a well-known brand and a sign of China’s newfound tech prowess.
周一，谷歌前雇员、小米全球部门主管雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)表示要离职并回到硅谷。巴拉成为小米的全球性招牌期间，该公司从一个名不见经传的的手机制造商变成了一个知名品牌，也变成了中国新兴科技实力的一个标志。
But his departure comes as some of that promise looks to be in doubt. Xiaomi grew quickly in China by selling cheaper smartphones with premium features, initially only online. It has had mixed success outside China, however. At home, it faces rising competition from big, deep-pocketed rivals like Huawei Technologies and other scrappy upstarts like the Chinese brand OnePlus.
但是他离开的时候，小米看上去有些前景不妙。最初小米手机只在网上销售。通过销售这些具有高级功能，但价格便宜的手机，小米在中国迅速成长。然而，在中国以外的地区，小米的扩张有成功也有失败。在本土，它也面临着日益激烈的市场竞争，对手不仅有华为这种财力雄厚的大公司，也包括一加(OnePlus)这种生机勃勃的新兴品牌。
Two years ago, Xiaomi was valued around $45 billion. Today, the company, which is privately held, is widely considered to be worth far less.
两年前，小米估值约450亿美元。而如今，业界广泛认为这家私人持有的公司价值已经远远不及当年。
Bryan Ma, an analyst at IDC, said that Mr. Barra’s departure was a blow to the company and that it called into question the future of Xiaomi’s fledgling overseas business.
国际数据公司(IDC)的分析师布莱恩·马(Bryan Ma)说，巴拉的离开对小米是一个打击，让人们对小米羽翼未丰的海外业务的前景提出了质疑。
“The question is, Who will replace him? Will that person be as effective an ambassador?” he said. “They’re doing fine in India, but what happens for everything else? Where does this all sit in the grand plan they had several years ago to expand to a bunch of markets?”
“问题是，谁会替代他？这个人能起到大使的作用吗？“他说。“他们在印度的业绩不错，但是在其他市场呢？他们几年前制定了扩张到其他一些市场的宏伟计划，这对该计划有怎样的影响？”
Xiang Wang, a veteran of Qualcomm who has led Xiaomi’s supply chain and intellectual property rights teams, will take over Mr. Barra’s responsibilities and lead Xiaomi’s global business, Xiaomi said. Mr. Barra did not respond to a request for comment.
小米表示，曾在高通公司任职的小米供应链和知识产权团队主管王翔将接替巴拉，领导小米的全球业务。巴拉没有回复置评请求。
Xiaomi has long been targeted by critics who accuse it of copying rivals. Yet its earlier success presaged the rise of other Chinese start-ups, such as the drone maker DJI, and demonstrated the power of the country’s fast-growing e-commerce sector.
小米长期被人指责抄袭对手。然而，它在早期的成功不仅为其他中国初创企业的兴起揭开了序幕，比如无人机制造商大疆，而且也展示了该国快速增长的电商部门的实力。
Mr. Barra, the vice president responsible for Xiaomi’s global division, presided over international expansion. Unlike China’s other major internet companies, Xiaomi made an early decision to expand beyond China’s borders, targeting markets like India, Myanmar and Brazil.
负责小米全球部门的副总裁巴拉主持了该公司的国际扩张行动。与中国其他大牌互联网公司不同的是，小米早就决定扩张到中国境外，并把目光瞄向了印度、缅甸和巴西等市场。
Mr. Barra, a widely recognized name in the tech world, was often the public face of that expansion. Orchestrating product releases in new markets and acting as an ambassador, he often gave talks in local markets to build buzz.
巴拉作为科技界广为人知的名人，常常在这种扩张中作为公开的招牌。他在新市场中协调产品发布并担任大使，经常在当地市场发表演讲，为产品造势。
Xiaomi has done relatively well in India, which accounted for about 18 percent of the company’s total phone shipments in the third quarter of 2016, according to IDC.
根据IDC的数据，小米在印度市场的销售形势相对较好，占了其2016年第三季度手机总出货量的18%。
In other markets it has been less successful. For instance, after a high-profile release of its phones in Mr. Barra’s home country of Brazil in 2015, the company has not been able to establish a significant beachhead there.
而在其他市场，小米的扩张不太成功。例如2015年在巴西高调发布手机后，小米未能在当地真正立住脚。
Competition has intensified in China from Huawei, OnePlus, Lenovo Group Limited and other companies getting into the handset business. From the third quarter of 2015 to the third quarter of 2016, Xiaomi’s market share in China dropped to 8 percent from 16 percent, according to IDC.
而且华为、一加、联想，和其他进军手机业务的公司也加剧了国内的竞争。IDC的资料显示，从2015年第三季度到2016年第三季度，小米在中国的市场份额已经从从16%下降到了8%。