Will Android, a “little rice” and lot of cheap “China Droids” overwhelm Apple’s plans for China?
Android、“小米”和许多价格低廉的“中国版Android”能否淹没苹果(Apple)的中国计划？
Xiaomi (“little rice” in Chinese) has just released a new Android phone priced at 799 renminbi ($130). The phone, called “Red Rice,” has good specifications, and one Chinese commentator said that the pricing was so aggressive and that the phone could do so much damage to competitors and component suppliers that it really should be called “Blood Rice.”
小米刚刚发布了一款新的Android手机，定价是799元人民币。这款手机名为“红米”，它性能优异，一名中国评论员说该手机的定价极富冲击力，以至于它可能对竞争对手和零部件供应商造成巨大的损伤，因此，它实际上应该被命名为“血米”。
Apple reported disappointing results from China in its recent quarterly earnings report. The iPhone is no longer the most sought after phone in the country, and the company still does not have a relationship with China Mobile, the country’s largest mobile operator. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, recently visited Beijing and met again with the chief executive of China Mobile, but no deal was announced.
在最近一个季度的收益报告中，苹果通报了其在中国区令人失望的收益结果。iPhone不再是最受中国人追捧的手机，该公司依然未能与中国最大的手机运营商中国移动通信集团公司建立关系。苹果首席执行官蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)最近造访了北京，并再次会见了中移动董事长，不过二者没有宣布达成协议。
When the iPhone 4 was the hottest phone in the world, Apple might have had some leverage in negotiating a favorable deal with China Mobile. But that is no longer true. The top end Android phones have caught up, and until Apple upgrades the iPhone with a bigger screen and a new look, it seems unlikely that it can reignite the crazy desire its phones once aroused in China. The iTunes ecosystem “lock-in” effect is also weak in China, making it easier for consumers to switch phones.
在iPhone 4还是全球最热门的手机时，苹果也许还有一些砝码，能跟中移动签订一个于己有利的协议。然而，情况已经今非昔比。Android高端手机已经赶了上来，除非升级iPhone，给它换上更大的屏幕和新外观，否则苹果似乎不太可能重燃旗下手机曾在中国引发的疯狂购买欲。iTunes生态系统的“锁定”效果在中国也比较弱，这让消费者更易于更换手机。
Rumors abound that Apple is planning to release a cheaper version of the iPhone. China is flooded with cheap Android phones that continue to get better and cheaper, and Xiaomi’s Red Rice is the latest example, with better marketing. China Mobile has also just announced its own brand of smartphones, priced at 1299 renminbi ($212) and 499 renminbi ($81).
目前传言四起，都说苹果正计划发布一款更廉价的iPhone手机。中国到处都是廉价的Android手机，它们的质量在不断提高，价格却在不断降低，而且市场推广也做得越来越好，小米的红米手机就是最新的典范。中移动也刚刚宣布自己品牌的智能手机，定价为1299元人民币和499元人民币。
Google’s Android operating system is mostly de-Googled in China, so while its proliferation may not directly benefit Google’s bottom line, it is damaging the prospects for Apple in the world’s largest phone market.
在中国，谷歌(Google)的Android操作系统大体上被去谷歌化了，因此，虽然该系统的扩散也许不会给谷歌带来直接的利润效益，但却正在破坏苹果在全球最大手机市场的前景。
As this column noted last week, in the midst of the surge of downbeat views about China’s economic prospects, at least one sector, the Internet, has offered good returns to investors over several months. The surge in mobile usage has also led to huge interest in mobile game developers listed on the Chinese stock markets, and the share price of the top six of those companies have doubled or more so far this year.
正如本专栏上周所指出的，外界纷纷对中国经济前景采取了悲观看法，可是即便是在这样的背景下，至少有一个行业，即互联网行业，还是在过去几个月里给投资者提供了丰厚的回报。手机使用量的激增还使投资者对在中国股市上市的手机游戏开发商产生了浓厚的兴趣，截止今年此时，此类公司中排名前六的公司，其股价已经涨了一倍或更多。
The explosive growth in mobile and Internet usage is one of the factors driving the relative strength in nonmanufacturing activity. Some officials are saying that there is more consumption than the official data suggest. The Wall Street Journal recently quoted the People’s Bank of China’s deputy governor, Yi Gang, as saying, “The official data severely understates household consumption.”
手机和互联网使用量的急速增加是促使非制造业活动保持相对强势的因素之一。有些官员表示，实际消费量比官方数据显示的还要多。《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)近期引用中国人民银行副行长易纲的话说，“官方数据严重低估了家庭消费。”
There is still plenty of data to fuel bearish arguments that China is heading for a much harsher slowdown, but the government appears to have drawn the line at how big a drop it will allow while pursuing what it now almost daily says is the needed overhaul of various sectors and the economy overall. China’s Politburo met last week and, according to the official statement, the government plans to keep growth steady in the second half of this year, amid the “extremely complicated domestic and international conditions.”
此外，还有大量数据为中国经济增速放缓程度会更加严重的悲观论点提供了佐证。但中国政府看来已经划出了它所允许的下跌底线，同时又在追求它几乎天天挂在嘴边的事情，即对各个行业和总体经济环境进行必要的整改。上周，中共中央政治局举行了会晤，官方发表声明称，政府计划今年下半年在“国内外经济环境十分复杂”的情况下，保持经济平稳增长。
One way to stabilize growth is through the “ministimulus” discussed in last week’s column. Another may be what appears to be a “monetary ministimulus,” as described by The Financial News, a newspaper affiliated with the People’s Bank of China.
保持经济平稳增长的方式之一就是通过上周的专栏文章所讨论的“微刺激”。另一种方式或许就是中国人民银行下属的《金融时报》所说的“货币政策的‘微刺激’举措”。
The newspaper ruled out any move to cut the reserve requirement in the near term, but said the central bank’s resumption of injections signals its willingness to support the market. “The central bank is telling the market it will maintain the stability of money market rates, and that banks don’t need to deleverage too aggressively on concerns of a shortage of liquidity,” the newspaper said.
该报不认为在短期内有下调存款准备金率的可能性，但是却说央行再度开始注入流动性的举措表明了支持市场的意愿。报纸称央行“告诉市场，央行会努力维持货币市场利率的稳定，商业银行不应因为担忧流动性紧张而大规模收缩杠杆”。
“China’s Coming Muddle Through” would never sell as a book. Nor does it make for a good TV soundbite about what is going on in China. But it may be the most likely outcome for the economy.
“中国仍将摸索前进”(China’s Coming Muddle Through)绝对是一本卖不出去的书。也成不了一段能很好地介绍中国现状的电视片。但中国经济面临的局面很可能就是这样。
The Capital Economics research firm wrote an excellent note on Aug. 1 asking, “How Close Is China to a Crisis?” The report, publicly available as a PDF, is a cogent look at the state of economy from a firm that two years ago predicted sub-8 percent growth for China in 2013, well ahead of many other economists. The short answer to its question is “not too close.”
8月1日，调研公司凯投宏观(Capital Economics)写了一份出色的报告，报告提出一个问题，“中国离危机有多近？”这份报告的PDF版本已被公开，它对中国经济形势的看法很令人信服。两年前，凯投宏观就曾预测中国2013年的经济增长率会低于8%，比其他许多经济学家都早了很多。对于这个问题的简短回答是，“不会太近”。
The economy will not be pretty going forward, but in the 24 years that I have been in and out of China, I cannot think of a year where things were ever smooth. Muddle through has worked in the past, and there is a good chance it will work in the future, even if that position will not get me a book deal. 
中国经济的前景不会很理想，但是24年间我不断访问中国，没有哪一年是一切顺利的。摸索前进在过去有用，在将来也很可能会起作用——尽管持这样一种立场意味着没有哪家出版社会有兴趣找我出书。