WASHINGTON — Donald Trump Jr. told Senate investigators Thursday that he set up a June 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer because he was intrigued that she might have damaging information about Hillary Clinton, saying it was important to learn about Clinton’s “fitness” to be president.
华盛顿——小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)周四对参议院表示，他2016年6月安排与一名俄罗斯律师会面是因为他好奇对方可能有希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的黑料，称这对了解克林顿是否“适合”当总统很重要。
But nothing came of the Trump Tower meeting, he said, and he was adamant that he never colluded with the Russian government’s campaign to disrupt last year’s presidential election.
但他说在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)举行的那次会面中一无所获，并坚称自己从来没有和俄罗斯政府扰乱去年总统大选的运动合谋。
In a prepared statement during an interview with Senate Judiciary Committee investigators, the younger Trump said he was initially conflicted when he heard that the lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, might have damaging information about Clinton. Despite his interest, he said, he always intended to consult with his own lawyers about the propriety of using any information that Veselnitskaya, who has ties to the Kremlin, gave him at the meeting.
接受参议院司法委员会(Senate Judiciary Committee)调查人员的问讯期间，小特朗普在一份事先准备好的声明中说，得知名为娜塔莉娅·维塞尼茨卡雅(Natalia Veselnitskaya)的律师可能有克林顿的黑料时，他先是有些矛盾。他说，尽管感兴趣，但对于使用和克里姆林宫有联系的维塞尼茨卡雅在那次会面时提供给他的信息是否妥当，他一直想咨询自己的律师。
“To the extent they had information concerning the fitness, character or qualifications of a presidential candidate, I believed that I should at least hear them out,” he said. “Depending on what, if any, information they had, I could then consult with counsel to make an informed decision as to whether to give it further consideration.”
“鉴于他们有关于一位总统候选人的健康、性格或条件的信息，我认为我至少应该听听它们是什么，”他说。“然后，根据他们的信息，如果他们真的有的话，我再咨询律师，就是否进一步考虑它们做出明智的决定。”
The June 2016 meeting came about after the younger Trump received an email from a family associate saying that potentially damaging information was being provided as part of the Russian government’s support for his father. But in his statement Thursday, he described his decision to agree to the meeting as the byproduct of the chaotic campaign assembled by his father, rather than any attempt to collude with Russia.
2016年6月那场会面发生在小特朗普收到一位家族友人的电子邮件之后。那封邮件称，作为对其父的支持的一部分，俄罗斯政府想提供可能对克林顿不利的信息。但在周四的声明中，他称自己同意举行会面的决定，是他父亲组建的竞选团队一片混乱的副产品，而不是企图与俄罗斯共谋。
In his statement, Trump Jr. said he had some reservations about the June 2016 proposal from the meeting’s facilitator, Rob Goldstone, whom he described as a “colorful” music promoter he had come to know through the son of a Russian oligarch. Goldstone asked Trump Jr. to take a meeting that would include potentially damaging information about Clinton.
在声明中，小特朗普自称对那次会面的协调人罗伯·戈德斯通(Rob Goldstone)在2016年6月提出的提议持保留意见。戈德斯通让小特朗普举行一次会面，其中有着可能对克林顿不利的信息。小特朗普说戈德斯通是一个“有趣的”音乐倡导人，并称自己是通过俄罗斯一名寡头的儿子认识戈德斯通的。
In an email response to Goldstone, Trump Jr. wrote that if the promised information about Clinton was as advertised, “I love it." “As much as some have made of my using the phrase ‘I love it,’ it was simply a colloquial way of saying that I appreciated Rob’s gesture,” he said in his statement.
在回复戈德斯通的电子邮件中，小特朗普写道，如果许诺的有关克林顿的消息和宣传的一样，“我喜欢”。“尽管一些人拿我那句‘我喜欢’大做文章，但它不过是我对罗伯的姿态表示感谢的一种口条表达方式，”他在声明中说。