At three blocks between Broadway and Greenwich Street in TriBeCa, Park Place is a wisp of a road. But it has shown it can make big news.
在曼哈顿的翠贝卡(TriBeCa)街区，贯穿百老汇(Broadway)和格林威治街(Greenwich Street)之间三条街区的公园广场(Park Place)，本是条默默无闻的幽长小路；然而它注定会成为头条新闻，吸引众人的眼球。
Many New Yorkers first heard of the spot a few years ago, because of a clash that erupted over plans to build an Islamic center at Nos. 45 to 51, in a former coat store and a Con Ed substation.
很多纽约人第一次听说这个地方还是在几年前，此地的45号至51号将被规划、改造成伊斯兰教聚集地。计划一出，立即引起了民众情绪的强烈反弹。而在此前，这处地址是服装商店和爱迪生联合电气公司分公司的旧址。
Opponents were furious that the institution, called the Park51 Community Center, would be three blocks from the site where terrorists who were Muslim took down the World Trade Center. Supporters argued that the center’s dedication to tolerance and education would work to help heal the wounds inflicted by the attack, and perhaps undo harmful stereotypes about Islam.
反对者们群情激昂，他们认为，这个被称作“公园51号社区活动中心”(the Park51 Community Center)的项目，距离被伊斯兰教恐怖分子摧毁的世贸中心仅有三个街区的距离，这是他们难以接受的。而支持者们则辩称，中心建成后所承载的宽容和教育功能，不仅有助于治愈恐怖袭击所带来的伤痛，或许还能消除人们心中对伊斯兰教不利的刻板印象。
Then, when plans for the full center were put off, all the hubbub went quiet. The site has been used as a prayer space for the last two years, and the developer is considering turning it into condominiums. A Four Seasons hotel-condominium is being planned for a site nearby.
后来，随着这项计划被搁浅，所有争议声也都烟消云散了。在过去两年里，这个地方一直被人们当作祈祷之地使用，开发商近来考虑将此地改建成公寓；无独有偶，四季酒店(Four Seasons)也打算在附近建造一座公寓酒店。
And now a new 21-story condo, to be called Tribeca Royale, has been refocusing attention on the area. When completed in the fall of 2014, it is expected to be the first to endow Park Place with opulent finishes and envelope-pushing architecture.
现如今，依然在这片地区，一座被称作”皇家翠贝卡”(Tribeca Royale)的崭新21层大厦再次吸引了众人的目光。一旦于2014年秋季竣工，它将有望成为第一座让花园广场尽显华美、超乎寻常的独特建筑。
To rise at No. 19, between Broadway and Church Street and a block from the Park51 site, the building will contain 24 apartments. About half will take up an entire floor and run through the block, meaning their back walls will be near Murray Street. The full-floor versions have a bedroom and three full baths.
这座建筑位于百老汇和教堂大街(Church Street)之间的19号，距离所谓的“公园51号社区活动中心”仅一街区之遥，共包括24间公寓。其中有半数的户型将独自占据一整层楼面，贯穿了整个街区。这就意味着它们的后墙会临着莫雷大街(Murray Street)。这种全楼层的户型均为一间卧室和三个完整卫生间的格局。
A head-turning design from the architect Ismael Leyva, this tall, skinny and shiny building may win points for boldness on a block with many brick and brownstone low-rises. It could also be appreciated for making do with so little space.
这栋回头率极高的建筑，是由建筑师伊斯梅尔·莱瓦(Ismael Leyva)担纲设计的。整座建筑以高、瘦、亮为特色，大胆创新的风格使其在满是砖块和赤褐色砂石堆砌而成的低矮楼层街区里，格外引人注目。此外，该建筑对于狭小空间的充分利用，也受到了人们的广泛赞誉。
Tribeca Royale’s lot, which is squeezed between a camping supplier called Tent & Trails and an office advertising “holistic dentistry,” is tiny, just 25 feet across. And it may feel even tighter, as metal braces have been inserted between the walls of the two adjacent buildings, as if to pry them apart.
皇家翠贝卡的占地面积极小，它挤在露营用品供应商Tent & Trails和写字楼广告牌“整体牙科”(holistic dentistry)之间，跨度仅25英尺（约合7.62米）。而且，当金属支架被插入相邻两座建筑之间时，它的空间就显得更加逼仄了，就像要把它两侧的建筑撬开似的。
Mr. Leyva, who focuses almost exclusively on condos in New York, has worked with narrow spaces before. One of his buildings, Icon, a 122-unit condo at 785 Eighth Avenue in Hell’s Kitchen, has 43 stories shoehorned into a 28-foot-wide lot.
一直专注于纽约公寓大厦建筑的莱瓦，此前就有过解决此类空间狭小问题的经验。矗立在布鲁克林区第八大街道785号（《地狱厨房》[Hell’s Kitchen]的一处拍摄现场）、拥有122个单元的公寓大厦ICON就是由他担纲设计的。在28英尺（约合8.53米）宽的地方，他硬是塞进一座43层高的大楼。
The space available for Tribeca Royale “was very small,” Mr. Leyva said, “so we tried to make it very elegant.” Even though the apartments have a railroad-style layout, the generous use of glass and terraces at the ends ensures that they won’t seem gloomy, he explained.
皇家翠贝卡所能利用的空间的确“十分狭小”，莱瓦说，“所以我们要尽力让它看起来格外优雅。”虽说这些公寓的外观都设计成了铁道风格(railroad-style)，但玻璃和露台的大量运用确保了房间的采光，使其看起来不那么昏暗，他解释说。
Kitchen counters will be quartz, bathroom cabinets teak; windows will stretch from floor to ceiling. Terraces that will line both the front and back facades will be oval in shape, giving them the appearance of petals on a branch.
厨房里的操作台将用上石英材质，浴室橱柜则将选用柚木，窗户从地面一直延伸到屋顶。屋子前后的露台呈椭圆形，看起来就像是枝杈上的花瓣。
The basement will have a 1,500-square-foot fitness center, and part of the second floor a shared outdoor space.
大厦的地下室将建成一个占地1500英尺（约合457.2米）的健身中心，而二楼的部分空间则会被打造成公共户外休闲场所。
The building, whose foundation was being poured on a recent afternoon, is being developed by ABN Realty, whose projects in New York include the Chelsea Royale, a 20-unit condo on West 24th Street. Dr. Chun Ka Luk, a onetime medical researcher who went into real estate in the 1980s, heads the company.
整座建筑的地基已于近期开始动工，负责此次开发建造的ABN房地产公司(ABN Realty)曾在纽约市建造了皇家切尔西项目(the Chelsea Royale)。那是一栋位于西24街的建筑，内有20套独立公寓。这家开发公司的陆春凯博士(Dr. Chun Ka Luk)曾是一位药物研究者，在20世纪80年代进军了房地产业。
He said he was taking over the project from the developer Nancy Luk, his wife, who died in 2011 of a brain aneurysm. Yet Ms. Luk’s presence lives on. The “N” in ABN, the company created for this project, stands for Nancy, Dr. Luk explained, adding that the “A” is for Albert, a son, and the “B” for Bernice, a daughter. Also, the second-floor outdoor space in the new building will be named Nancy’s Garden.
他说，这个项目是他从身为开发商的妻子陆南希(Nancy Luk)那里接手过来的。虽然南希不幸于2011年因脑瘤过世，但她的影响并未消失。陆春凯解释说，ABN公司名字当中的“N”就代表南希，而“A”代表儿子艾伯特，“B”则代表女儿柏妮丝。此外，新建筑二楼的户外休闲场所还将被命名为“南希花园”(Nancy’s Garden)。
With development costs of $20 million and with its loans in place, the building awaits approval of its offering plan, Dr. Luk said; marketing is to begin in a few months, though no broker has yet been chosen.
随着2000万美元（约合人民币1.22亿元）开发成本和贷款的相继到位，只要它的开发提案获得批准，整座建筑即可动工，陆春凯说。虽然现在还没选定经纪公司，但这并不影响几个月后如期进行的市场推广活动。
Pricing is still up in the air, but Dr. Luk said units would most likely cost about $2,000 a square foot, or about $2.8 million for the 1,400-square-foot full-floor units. That compares favorably with about $3,500 a foot for flashy new condos nearby like 56 Leonard Street.
尽管眼下的房价一直居高不下，但陆春凯说这些房子很可能每平方英尺只会卖到2000美元（约合每平方米人民币131840.69元），或说总面积1400平方英尺（约合130.06平方米）的一整层只需要280万美元（约合人民币1714.72万元）。而附近的新建公寓——如伦纳德大街(Leonard Street)56号大楼，其单价约为每平方英尺3500美元（约合每平方米人民币230721.21元）。与之相比，陆春凯的价格简直划算多了。
“We are trying to be realistic; this is a neighborhood in transition,” he said about an area with several vacant storefronts.
“我们正试着现实一些，这处街区毕竟是个过渡地带，”他说到一片有几间空置店面的地区。
Indeed, the area’s many construction fences and sidewalk sheds attest to a makeover. This spring, Silverstein Properties announced that work would begin work in the fall on a Four Seasons hotel-condo at 30 Park Place, across from Tribeca Royale, on a long-stalled site where a foundation is in the ground. Financing is finally in place for the $930 million project, according to the developer, which is based two blocks away at Seven World Trade Center.
的确，整个街区随处可见的施工栅栏和搭建在人行道上的棚子足以证明，这里即将大为改观。今年春天，美国兆华斯坦地产公司(Silverstein Properties)宣布，四季酒店在公园广场30号的公寓项目也即将于秋季动工，就建在皇家翠贝卡对面、此前被搁浅的那个项目的所在地，地基已经深埋在地下。根据开发商的说法，目前这个9.3亿美元（约合人民币56.95亿元）的项目已融资到位，它与世贸中心7号大楼仅隔着两个街区(Seven World Trade Center)。
The building, designed by Robert A. M. Stern, will probably make its own statement. It will measure 926 feet, eclipsing the nearby 792-foot Woolworth Building, which is adding condos at its crown, as well as the 870-foot New York by Gehry, a gleaming rental at 8 Spruce Street.
（四季酒店公寓）这座由罗伯特·A·M·斯特恩(Robert A. M. Stern)设计的新建筑，很可能将发出自己强有力的声音。它那926英尺（约合282.2米）的高度，足以傲视附近那栋加上顶层公寓才792英尺（约合241.4米）的伍尔沃思大厦(Woolworth Building)，以及云杉街(Spruce Street)8号上金光闪闪、高度为870英尺（约合265米）的租赁式公寓楼——纽约盖瑞大厦(New York by Gehry)。
Though Tribeca Royale clocks in at just 292 feet, Dr. Luk isn’t worried about being overshadowed, by his neighbors, especially the Four Seasons project. “If anything,” he said, “it will make the neighborhood classier and nicer.” And, perhaps, cement a new kind of legacy.
尽管皇家翠贝卡的测量高度只有292英尺（约合89米），但陆春凯并不担心它的风头被近邻盖过去，尤其是四季酒店的项目。“要说（皇家翠贝卡）有什么独特之处的话”，他说，“它的出现只会让整个社区变得更加时髦、更加漂亮。”或许，假以时日，它还会成为一种新的建筑遗产。