The little black dress is an iconic French invention, right?
小黑裙是标志性的法国发明，不是吗？
Created nearly a century ago by Coco Chanel as emblematic of Gallic chic and worn by Edith Piaf as she sang about love and loss, the dress did make it to America, perhaps most notably as Audrey Hepburn’s costume in the 1961 movie “Breakfast at Tiffany’s.” But that dress was, of course, made by the Paris couturier Hubert de Givenchy.
小黑裙大约是一个世纪前可可·香奈儿(Coco Chanel)发明的，是法国时尚的象征，伊迪丝·琵雅芙(Edith Piaf)在吟唱爱与失去时，穿的就是这样的小黑裙。后来它来到美国，也许最出名的就是奥黛丽·赫本(Audrey Hepburn)在1961年的电影《蒂芙妮的早餐》(Breakfast at Tiffany’s)中穿的小黑裙。但是那条连衣裙当然是由巴黎女装设计师于贝尔·德·纪梵希(Hubert de Givenchy)制作的。
So it may come as a surprise in “Little Black Dress,” an intriguing exhibition in Paris at the Mona Bismarck American Center for Art & Culture (until Sept. 22) to encounter first a black lace dress worn by the American designer Marc Jacobs to the 2012 Metropolitan Museum gala by the Japanese designer Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons and a sleek dinner dress, worn by the artist Rachel Feinstein, made by Mr. Jacobs.
所以，在巴黎蒙纳俾斯麦美国艺术文化中心(Mona Bismarck American Center for Art & Culture)举办的有趣的展览“小黑裙”（Little Black Dress，展览持续到9月22日）上，首先看到美国设计师马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)参加2012年大都会博物馆庆典宴会时穿过的，由日本设计师川久保玲(Rei Kawakubo)设计的黑色蕾丝连衣裙，以及艺术家雷切尔·范斯坦(Rachel Feinstein)穿的雅可布设计的精致礼服，多少让人有些意外。
Created at the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD) in Georgia, the exhibition pits a framed Karl Lagerfeld example of the classic black Chanel dress, as worn by Anna Wintour, the editor-in-chief of American Vogue, against the feisty cutaway Latex dress by Norma Kamali, or even a body-revealing lace and jet-beading creation from Tom Ford.
这场展览由乔治亚州的萨凡纳艺术设计学院(Savannah College of Art and Design)主办。展览中，《Vogue》美国版主编安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)穿过的卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)设计的经典香奈儿黑色连衣裙，诺玛·卡玛利(Norma Kamali)设计的活泼的乳胶燕尾连衣裙，以及汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)设计的暴露的蕾丝珠饰连衣裙，竞相争艳。
The man behind the artistic organization of textures, shapes and nuances of shades, all shown against sanguine red walls, is André Leon Talley. Long known as a contributing editor at American Vogue and now an editor-at-large for the Russian version of Numéro magazine, Mr. Leon Talley used his connections with high society to enrich the collection that opened in in 2011 at the SCAD Museum of Art in Savannah.
这场展览的背景墙体是乐观活泼的红色，负责面料、裁剪以及颜色细微差别的艺术总监是安德烈·利昂·塔利(André Leon Talley)。他一直是《Vogue》美国版的特约编辑，最近又开始兼任《Numéro》杂志俄罗斯版的自由编辑。他利用自己在上流社会的人际关系网，令2011年在萨凡纳艺术设计学院艺术博物馆展出的藏品更加丰富。
And Mr. Leon Talley has no doubts about the power of the little black dress after years of attending haute couture shows and advising socialites like Anne Bass, a benefactor of the New York City Ballet, as well as famous names from Alicia Keys through Gwyneth Paltrow, Diana Ross, Serena and Venus Williams and Renée Zellweger.
利昂·塔利对小黑裙的魅力毫不置疑，这是基于他多年参加高级定制时装秀以及给社会名流担任着装顾问的经验。他曾给纽约市芭蕾舞团的赞助人之一安妮·巴斯(Anne Bass)以及其他一些名人担任着装顾问，比如艾丽西亚·凯斯(Alicia Keys)、格温妮丝·帕特洛(Gwyneth Paltrow)、黛安娜·罗斯(Diana Ross)、塞丽娜和维纳斯·威廉姆斯(Serena and Venus Williams)以及芮妮·齐薇格(Renée Zellweger)。
This collection is far more than an homage to past grandeur.
这场展览还不只是对过去的辉煌致意。
“In every moment my desire was to establish an invisible dialogue or narrative between dress, showcasing variety and how women thought of the little black dress,” Mr. Leon Talley said. He chose a Chanel coatdress from Gloria von Thurn und Taxis and decided to face off a Galliano slip dress and a black Fortuny column that he says, is “as modern today as it must have been when it was designed circa 1907.” That piece came as part of a donation to SCAD of the entire wardrobe of the socialite C.Z. Guest.
“我每时每刻都想在这些小黑裙之间建立一种看不见的对话或描述，展示小黑裙的多样性以及女人对它的看法，”利昂·塔利说。他选了格洛丽亚·冯·图恩温特塔克西斯(Gloria von Thurn und Taxis)穿过的一件香奈儿开襟连衣裙，决定和加利亚诺(Galliano)设计的一件吊带连衣裙以及福图尼(Fortuny)设计的黑色连衣裙放在一起对比。他说福图尼的那件连衣裙“直到现在还像1907年左右刚设计出来时那样摩登”。那件衣服是社会名流C·Z·盖斯特(C.Z. Guest)捐赠给萨凡纳艺术设计学院的全部服饰中的一件。
The lore of the little black dress is that it made its name in 1926, when an American Vogue illustration aligned Chanel’s creation with the any-color-as-long-as-it-is-black model-T Ford car.
据说，小黑裙是1926年《Vogue》美国版把香奈儿的设计与所有的黑色T型福特车并排放置之后才开始出名的。
Since the much-married social adventuress Mona Bismarck was the first woman in the world to head a “Best Dressed” list in 1933, it seems appropriate that the exhibition is in her former Paris home on the Avenue de New York. And that the mannequins grouped in back and front positions (the better to display a subtle plunge down the spine) emulate guests at a grand party.
因为有多次婚史的女社会冒险家蒙纳·俾斯麦是1933年世界上第一个名列“最佳着装奖”榜首的女性，所以这次展览在她位于纽约大道的巴黎故居举办似乎很合适。那些聚在一起的人体模型，有的面向观众，有的背对观众（背对观众能更好地展示沿脊柱而下的精妙开叉），模仿的是一次盛大聚会上的宾客们。
Mr. Leon Talley links this rearview focus to a moment at his high school senior prom, when the homecoming queen asked him, between dances, to powder her bared back, thus giving him a first frisson of the spine as an erotic zone.
利昂·塔利对后背的关注源于他高中毕业舞会上的一个瞬间——回校探访的舞会皇后在两支舞之间请他给她裸露的后背搽粉，让他第一次颤栗地发现脊柱原来可以是这样一个充满诱惑的部位。
Throughout the show there are subtle touches, as a lofty Madame Grès dress from 1977 is blown into movement by a tiny electric fan, with the back, once again, challenging the “monastic” look.
展览中有很多感人的微妙之处，比如格雷夫人(Madame Grès)1977年穿过的一件高贵的连衣裙被一个小电扇吹动，这件连衣裙的后背再次挑战“修道士”的评判眼光。
In the final room of the show, the models sit elegantly on couches in front of a gilded mirror, with just a single cascade of Oscar de la Renta’s red frills signing off with bravura the intensity of black.
在展览的最后一个房间里，人体模型们优雅地坐在长沙发上，后面是一面镀金的镜子，只有奥斯卡·德·拉伦塔(Oscar de la Renta)的一件瀑布般的红色多层褶边连衣裙大胆地打乱了黑色的强势地位。
Mr. Leon Talley said he imagined a ball in Venice with the ladies gossiping as they waited to be asked to dance. And the donors’ names alone transport the clothes to another world: a 1962 Chanel dress from Baronne Béatrice de Rothschild; or a lace Yves Saint Laurent dress donated by the longtime front-row fixture Deeda Blair.
利昂·塔利说他想象的是威尼斯的一场舞会，女士们一边等待被邀请跳舞，一边闲谈。光是捐赠人的名字就把这些衣服带到了另一个世界：贝阿特丽丝·德·罗斯柴尔德(Béatrice de Rothschild)男爵夫人1962年穿过的一件香奈儿连衣裙；或者长期坐在头排的迪达尔·布莱尔(Deeda Blair)捐赠的一件伊夫圣罗兰的蕾丝连衣裙。
But the show is not entirely given over to studied elegance or a world as charming and glamorous as it is definitively over.
但是这场展览也不是完全用于展示考究的优雅或者那个已经确定消失了的迷人的、魅惑的世界。
There are hyper-modern dresses, like the American designer Prabal Gurung’s plunge-front gown, Diane Von Furstenburg’s synthetic lamé wrap dress and a Neoprene zip-front design from the SCAD graduate Alexis Asplundh.
也有一些非常现代的连衣裙，比如美国设计师普拉巴·高隆(Prabal Gurung)的前胸开叉礼服、黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(Diane Von Furstenburg)设计的合成金银线裹裙，以及萨凡纳艺术设计学院毕业生亚历克西斯·阿斯普隆德(Alexis Asplundh)设计的一件前面有拉链的氯丁橡胶连衣裙。
“I think Americans take more freedom with it — with more energy put into young designers, there is a tilt toward America in the show,” says Molly Rowe, director of Creative Initiatives at SCAD.
“我觉得美国人对它的态度更自由，对年轻设计师投入更多精力，这场展览向美国倾斜，”萨凡纳艺术设计学院创意倡导会的主管莫利·罗(Molly Rowe)说。
Although one senses that Mr. Leon Talley’s heart is in Paris haute couture, there are various modern American gowns, including classic dresses from Rodarte.
虽然能感觉到利昂·塔利的心属于巴黎高级定制服装，但是也有各种美国现代礼服，包括罗达特(Rodarte)设计的经典连衣裙。
Azzedine Alaïa’s zippered short dress, metal chains swinging over a bifurcated dress from the Nicolas Ghesquière years at Balenciaga and Stella McCartney’s cutaway dress all offer fresh takes.
阿泽丁·阿拉伊阿(Azzedine Alaïa)的拉链短连衣裙、尼古拉斯·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)在巴黎世家(Balenciaga)任职期间设计的分成两截的连衣裙上摇晃的金属链子以及斯特拉·麦卡特尼(Stella McCartney)的燕尾连衣裙都让人耳目一新。
“The little black dress is something to rely on — to fill you with confidence and ease,” says Ms. McCartney in the text of the accompanying book, published by Rizzoli.
“小黑裙是一种可以依靠的东西，它让你充满自信、让你放松，”麦卡特尼在随附的书中写道。该书由里佐利(Rizzoli)出版社出版。
So is the little black dress the last haven for a conventional dresser, or an opportunity to add a jolt of imagination to a classic?
所以，到底小黑裙是传统服装师最后的避难所，还是给经典之作增加一点想象力的一个机会？
The answer in this exhibition is both. It is as though the classic pieces from Cristóbal Balenciaga or Yves Saint Laurent are still the center of a fashion world where imagination in fabric, cut and the way the dress is worn add that extra jolt.
这场展览给出的答案是两者都是。克里斯托巴尔·巴伦西亚加(Cristóbal Balenciaga)或伊夫·圣·罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)的经典款式似乎仍是时装界的中心，而对面料、裁剪和着装方式的想象力则增添着额外的震撼。
Miuccia Prada expresses the reality of timeless yet contemporary fashion, when she says in the book: “To me, designing a little black dress is trying to express in a simple, banal object, a great complexity about women, aesthetics, and current times.”
缪西娅·普拉达(Miuccia Prada)认为时装既是永恒的，又是暂时的，她在书中写道：“对我来说，设计一件小黑裙是努力用简单而平凡的东西表达女性、审美和当下的复杂性。”