In a series of videos on the live-streaming app Periscope, she said that her name was Océane, that she was 19 and that she worked in a retirement home. Seated on a couch, she smoked cigarettes, played with her cat, and showed off her tattoos: a rose on her left forearm, a small heart on her right thumb. She engaged with Periscope followers, who asked about her life and her hobbies.
在流媒体直播应用Periscope的一系列视频中，她说自己的名字叫奥塞安(Océane)，19岁，在养老院工作。她坐在沙发上，抽着烟，和自己的猫玩耍，还展示了身上的刺青：左前臂上是一朵玫瑰，右手拇指上是一枚小小的心形图案。Periscope上的粉丝询问她的生活状况和爱好，她与他们互动。
At 4:29 p.m. on Tuesday, while recording herself on Periscope, the woman threw herself under a train at the Égly station, about 25 miles south of Paris, on the C line of the regional train system known as the R.E.R.
本周二下午4时29分，在巴黎以南约25英里的埃格利车站，这名女子一边在Periscope上直播，一边跳到了区域列车系统(RER)C线的一列火车下面。
On Wednesday, French officials said they had opened an investigation into her death.
法国官员周三表示，他们已经开始着手调查这起死亡事件。
Éric Lallement, the local prosecutor, said the young woman, whom he did not identify, had sent a text message to a friend of her former boyfriend, saying the ex-boyfriend had abused and raped her. In the text message, “she declares she is ending her life because of the evil that he did to her,” Mr. Lallement said in a statement.
当地检察官埃里克·拉勒门特(Éric Lallement)没有提到这位年轻女子的名字，但是说她发了一条短信给前男友的一位朋友，称前男友曾虐待和强奸她。在短信中，“她宣称，由于他对她做出的邪恶行为，她要结束自己的生命，”拉勒门特在一份声明中说。
He added that investigators were examining the woman’s mobile phone and were working to obtain the original videos from Periscope. The investigators, he said, had talked to the woman’s relatives, and they had described her as being psychologically fragile and as having had a troubled relationship with the ex-boyfriend.
他还说，调查人员正在检查这名女子的手机，并正在努力获得Periscope的视频原件。他说，调查人员已经跟女子的亲戚联系过，他们说她心理脆弱，与前男友的关系不合。
The videos are no longer available on Periscope, which is owned by Twitter, but excerpts from the videos were widely circulated on YouTube, with the suicide blacked out.
在Twitter旗下的Periscope上，现在已经无法看到这些视频，但是其中一些片段在YouTube上广为流传，自杀部分是黑屏。
In the video excerpts, the woman said, “The video I am doing right now is not made to create buzz, but rather to make people react, to open minds, and that’s it.”
在视频片段中，这名女子说，“我正在拍摄的视频不是为了制造轰动效应，而是要让人们有所思，有所行，就是这样。”
When one Periscope user asked her if she was going to commit suicide, she answered, “No, I am not going to kill myself,” but added, “I have reached the point where nothing pleases me,” and, “Nothing can make me want to get up in the morning.”
当一名Periscope用户问她是不是打算自杀，她回答，“不是，我不打算杀死自己，”不过她接着说，“我已经到了什么都不能让我高兴起来的地步，”而且，“没什么事能让我在早上想从床上爬起来。”
People watching the video chimed in with remarks — including “We’re waiting,” “Always a pleasure to see you,” “Give us a hint” and “I think it’s fun” — that suggested that they did not appreciate the gravity of her distress.
正在观看视频的人插入了一些评论——其中包括“我们等着看呢”，“看到你总会开心”，“给我们个提示”，以及“我觉得这事挺有趣”——显示出他们当时并没有意识到她的痛苦严重到何种程度。
At one point in the excerpts, the screen goes dark, and there is no noise. About five minutes later, the voice of someone, evidently an emergency worker, can be heard saying, “I am under the train with the victim; I need to move the victim.” The train is visible in the seconds before the video cuts out.
在这些视频片段中，屏幕一度变黑，也没有任何杂音。五分钟后，明显像是一名急救人员的人的声音响起，“我在火车下面，与死者在一起；我需要挪动死者。”画面中出现了火车，几秒种后视频被切断。
The death appeared to be the latest of several recent episodes in which disturbing and violent acts have been transmitted via live-streaming technologies. Last month, two teenagers assaulted a drunken 24-year-old man in a nightclub district of Bordeaux, France. One of the two assailants recorded the attack on Periscope, and filmed himself bragging and laughing about it. Both teenagers were arrested.
在最近出现的令人不安的暴力行为通过直播技术传播的事件中，这是最新的一起。上个月，曾有两名青少年在法国波尔多的一个夜店聚集区袭击一名醉酒的24岁男子。其中一名袭击者在Periscope上直播了袭击过程，还拍下自己就此吹嘘和大笑的样子。之后两名青少年都被逮捕。
Also last month, the authorities in Ohio said an 18-year-old woman had witnessed a 17-year-old high school friend being raped and had not only failed to help, but had pointed her mobile phone at the friend and streamed a video of the assault on Periscope. The teenager, Marina Lonina, was charged with kidnapping, rape, sexual battery and pandering sexually oriented matter involving a minor — the same charges leveled at Raymond Gates, 29, the man accused in the attack.
也是在上个月，俄亥俄州当局表示，一名18岁的女孩眼见她17岁的高中生朋友遭遇强奸，不仅没有上前救助，还把自己的手机摄像头对准朋友，在Periscope直播性侵过程。这位名为马里纳·洛尼纳(Marina Lonina)的少女被控犯下绑架、强奸、性暴力以及传播涉及未成年人的与性相关材料的
“I have never seen a case such as this where you would actually live-stream a sexual assault,” Ron O’Brien, the prosecutor in Franklin County, Ohio, told journalists.
“我从没碰见过这样的案件，竟然会有人真的对性侵过程进行直播，”俄亥俄州富兰克林县的检察官罗恩·奥布莱恩(Ron O’Brien)在接受记者采访时讲道。
Thomas Husson, a Paris-based analyst at the technology research company Forrester Research, said it was inevitable that live-streaming tools would be used to record tragic and even brutal events.
技术研究公司弗雷斯特研究(Forrester Research)驻巴黎分析师汤玛斯·赫森(Thomas Husson)表示，直播工具不可避免会被用来记录悲惨、甚至是残忍的事件。
“It’s both the good and bad part of these technologies: They allow people to enter other people’s private lives,” he said in a phone interview.
“这些技术既有好的一面，也有不好的一面：它们可以让人们进入其他人的私生活，”他在接受电话采访时表示。
“It would be very difficult to prevent such events from happening,” he said of the suicide. “We now live in a dictatorship of real time.”
“要防止此类事件发生是非常困难的，”他在谈到这起自杀事件时表示。“如今我们生活在一个被实时技术俘获的时代。”
Mr. Husson added: “These technologies enable real-time streaming, which can have a lot of unintended consequences. Internet giants are starting to monitor how people use their technologies in real time, but it’s tricky. It’s almost impossible to control how people use social media.”
赫森还表示：“这些技术让实时播放成为可能，这会带来很多意想不到的后果。互联网巨头开始实时监控人们如何使用他们的技术，但这并不容易。要控制人们如何使用社交媒体几乎是不可能的。”
Regulators have been trying to get a hold on new social media tools, like Periscope and Snapchat, mostly out of concern about their use by extremist organizations like the Islamic State.
监管机构一直在试图对Periscope和Snapchat等新的社交媒体工具进行控制，他们主要是担心这些工具被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)等极端组织利用。
“These companies will inevitably have to comply with new rules,” Mr. Husson said. “But that’s a political question. At the end of the day, it’s about potential new regulation over how people can use these technologies.”
“将来这些公司不可避免地要遵守一些新的规定，”赫森说道。“但那属于政治层面的问题。说到底，它与有可能出现的针对人们如何使用技术的新规有关。”
Twitter encourages people to submit a form if they believe that a user is at risk of self-harm. Periscope’s community guidelines state: “To maintain a healthy platform, explicit graphic content is not allowed. Explicit graphic content includes, but is not limited to, depictions of child abuse, animal abuse or bodily harm. Periscope is not for content that is intended to incite violence, or includes a direct and specific threat of violence to others.”
Twitter鼓励人们在觉得一位用户有可能做出自残行为之时，提交一个表格，予以提示。Periscope的社区准则规定：“为保持平台的健康，禁止发布露骨的图像内容。露骨的图像内容包括但不限于描述虐待儿童、虐待动物或肉体伤害等内容。Periscope反对公布意在煽动暴力，或包含对他人的直接明确的暴力威胁的内容。”