FERGUSON, Mo. — President Obama on Thursday called for an end to the violence here, decrying actions by both the police and protesters. Hours later, the Missouri governor, Jay Nixon, ordered the state highway patrol to take over security from local law enforcement.
密苏里州弗格森——奥巴马总统在周四呼吁平息这里的暴力，并谴责了警察和抗议者的行为。几小时后，密苏里州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)下令让州高速公路巡警接手当地执法部门的安保工作。
Clashes between heavily armed police and furious protesters in Ferguson have come to define the aftermath of a police officer’s fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager. The moves came as federal and state officials scrambled to quell a growing crisis, and as alarm rose across the country over images of a mostly white police force aiming military-style weapons at protesters and using tear gas and rubber bullets in a predominantly African-American community.
一名警官在弗格森枪杀一名赤手空拳的少年后，事件演变成了全副武装的警察和愤怒的抗议者之间的冲突。在州长做出这个决定的同时，联邦和州政府正展开紧急行动，以遏制危机的进一步恶化。而事件相关的画面也在全美引起关注，在这些画面中，大多数为白人的警察部队，在一个以非裔美国人为主的社区，把军用风格的武器对准抗议者，并使用了催泪瓦斯和橡皮子弹。
Criticism of the police response, already heavy because officials have refused to name the officer involved in the shooting, intensified after two journalists were arrested Wednesday while recharging their phones and working on their articles at a local McDonald’s.
由于拒绝透露枪击案涉案警官的姓名，外界对警方的批评本就已经十分严厉，而周三在当地一家麦当劳餐厅，两名记者在给手机充电和撰写文章时被逮捕，这令批评声愈发尖锐起来。
The highway patrol official appointed by the governor to take over the response immediately signaled a change in approach. The official, Capt. Ronald S. Johnson, told reporters he had ordered troopers to remove their tear gas masks, and in the early evening he accompanied several groups of protesters through the city streets, clasping hands, listening to stories and marching alongside them.
受州长委派的高速公路巡警官员接管了此次事件的应对工作，他在第一时间发出信号，处置方式在改变。警监罗纳尔德·S·约翰逊(Ronald S. Johnson)对记者说，他已下令州警取下催泪瓦斯面具，并在傍晚和几个抗议群体一起走在城市的街道上，跟人握手，倾听他们的故事，和他们一起游行。
“We’re just starting today anew — we’re starting a new partnership today,” said Mr. Johnson, who is African-American and grew up in the area. “We’re going to move forward today, to put yesterday and the day before behind us.”
“我们今天重新开始——我们今天开始了一种新的合作，”约翰逊说，他是一名非裔美国人，就在这一带长大。“我们今天要向前走，把昨天及以前的日子抛在脑后。”
Mr. Nixon, appearing defensive at times as he briefed reporters in St. Louis Thursday afternoon, did not criticize the local police but said of Ferguson, “Lately, it’s looked a little bit more like a war zone, and that’s not acceptable.” He said he had met with residents and listened to their concerns, and said of Michael Brown, the 18-year-old killed by the police in disputed circumstances on Saturday, that “a young man, a man not much younger than my own sons, lost his life.”
周四下午在圣路易斯向记者介绍情况时，尼克松时常显得很谨慎，没有批评当地警方，但是他说弗格森“这些天看起来有点像个战场，这是不可接受的。”他说他已经和居民们见了面，倾听他们的担忧，并提到了迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)，也就是在周六的一个争议性场合下被警察打死的那名18岁少年，说“一个小伙子，一个比我儿子小不了几岁的小伙子，失去了自己的生命。”
Mr. Nixon, a Democrat, who was Missouri’s attorney general before being elected governor in 2008, did not describe any specific changes to police practices, uniforms or equipment, but said it was time for a “different tone” that balanced the need to prevent looting against the right of residents to assemble and demonstrate.
身为民主党人的尼克松在2008年被选为州长，此前是密苏里州检察总长，他并没有提及任何具体的警方手法、制服或装备的改变，但是说现在是时候发出一个“不一样的声音”，要在防止劫掠和确保居民集会与示威权利之间找到平衡。
“Ferguson will not be defined as a community that was torn apart by violence, but will be known as a community that pulled together to overcome it,” Mr. Nixon said.
“弗格森不会成为一个因暴力而分裂的社区，而是会成为一个齐心协力、战胜困难的社区，”尼克松说。
President Obama, speaking to reporters at a hastily arranged news conference on Martha’s Vineyard, where he is vacationing, decried attacks on both the police and protesters, and pleaded for “peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson.” He said he had spoken to Mr. Nixon before making his statement. He also confirmed that he had instructed the Justice Department and the F.B.I. to investigate the shooting death, “to help determine exactly what happened and to see that justice is done.”
正在玛莎葡萄园岛度假的奥巴马总统在一次仓促安排的记者招待会上讲话，谴责针对警察和抗议者的袭击，并吁求“弗格森街头恢复和平与宁静。”他说尼克森在宣布决定前和他通过话。他还承认已经指示司法部(Justice Department)和联邦调查局(FBI)对枪击致死案展开调查，“以明确究竟发生了什么事，确保正义得以伸张。”
Mr. Obama also criticized the detentions of reporters, saying, “Here in the United States of America, police should not be bullying or arresting journalists who are just trying to do their jobs and report to the American people on what they see on the ground.”
奥巴马还批评了对记者的拘押，称“在美利坚合众国，正在履行职责、将自己所见报告给美国人民的记者，不应该受到警察的恐吓或逮捕。”
But the president seemed to many to be less emotional or personal than he had been two years ago, when he called for “soul searching” by Americans after the fatal shooting of Trayvon Martin, a young black man in Florida. “You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon,” Mr. Obama said then.
但是很多人认为，总统看上去不像两年前那么动情和感同身受，当时名叫特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)的黑人男青年被射杀，奥巴马呼吁美国人进行“灵魂的反省”。“要是我有个儿子，他的样子就是特雷沃恩那样。”
Multiple national officials criticized the decision of the local police in Ferguson to use military-style garb and equipment to respond to the protests. “At a time when we must seek to rebuild trust between law enforcement and the local community, I am deeply concerned that the deployment of military equipment and vehicles sends a conflicting message,” Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said in a statement. Later on Thursday, Mr. Holder called Mr. Brown’s parents and promised a full, independent investigation into their son’s killing, according to a Justice Department official.
多名国家官员批评了弗格森当地警方的决定， 他们使用军用风格的制服和装备应对抗议活动。“如今我们必须在执法部门和当地社区之间重建信任，我十分担心部署军用装备和车辆会释放一种矛盾的信息，”司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)在一份声明中说。据司法部一名官员称，周四晚些时候，霍尔德致电布朗的父母，承诺将就他们的儿子被杀一案进行一次全面的独立调查。