Though Malala Yousafzai is 17, she does not use Facebook or even a mobile phone lest she lose focus on her studies. She spent her summer vacation flying to Nigeria to campaign for the release of girls kidnapped by the extremist Islamist group Boko Haram, but also worrying about her grades, which recently took a worrisome dip. She confronted President Obama about American drone policy in a meeting last year, but finds it difficult to befriend her fellow students in Birmingham, England.
马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)今年17岁，但她不上Facebook，就连手机也不用，以免自己在学业上分心。暑假期间，她乘机前往尼日利亚，为被极端伊斯兰组织“博科圣地”(Boko Haram)绑架的女孩获释而奔走，同时，她也为自己成绩近期出现的恼人下滑而担忧。去年在一个会议上，她直面奥巴马总统，批评美国的无人机政策，但她发现在英国伯明翰，很难和同学们交朋友。
“I want to have fun, but I don’t quite know how,” she wrote in the edition of her autobiography for young readers.
“我想开心地玩，但我不知道如何做到，”她在为年轻读者写的一版自传中说。
On Friday, Ms. Yousafzai became the youngest winner of the Nobel Peace Prize — grouped in the same pantheon as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Mother Teresa, and yet still a student at Edgbaston High School for Girls, where she was summoned out of her chemistry class to hear the news.
上周五，优萨福扎伊成为了诺贝尔和平奖的最年轻获奖者，得以与牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士和特蕾莎修女(Mother Teresa)位列同一个神殿之中；她是艾吉巴斯顿女子中学(Edgbaston High School for Girls)的学生，正在上化学课时，被叫出课堂，被告知了这个消息。
Ms. Yousafzai began campaigning for girls’ education at the age of 11, three years before she was shot by the Taliban. She was so young that some observers questioned how well equipped a child of that age could be to put her own safety on the line and commit to a life of activism. The prize she received on Friday validates what she has taken on, but also underscores the disproportionate expectations that trail her: Can she truly influence the culture of her home country of Pakistan, which she cannot even visit because of threats to her safety, and where many revile her as a tool of the West? Ms. Yousafzai may be an Anne Frank-like figure who defied terror, showed extraordinary courage and inspires hope, but how much can one teenager accomplish?
优萨福扎伊11岁时开始参加维护女童受教育权益的活动，三年前，她遭到塔利班枪击。她当时如此年少，一些观察家质疑，对于把自己的安全置之度外，投身于维权运动，那么小的孩子做好了多大的准备。本周五她获得的奖项，是对她的努力的认可，但同时也突显了她所承载的格外巨大的期望：她能对祖国巴基斯坦的文化产生真正影响吗？因为人身安全受到威胁，她甚至无法踏足那里，很多巴基斯坦人辱骂她是西方的工具。优萨福扎伊可能是安妮·弗兰克(Anne Frank)式的人物，她们无惧于恐怖行径，展现了非凡勇气，激发了人们的希望，但一个不到二十岁的人，能取得多大成就？
“Can she actually create systemic change at this young age? Can she create a movement? Because she doesn’t have that kind of infrastructure in Pakistan at the moment,” Vishaka Desai, a professor of international relations at Columbia, said in a telephone interview.
“她这么年轻，真的可以带来系统性的变化吗？她可以发起一个运动吗？在巴基斯坦，她目前可没有那种根基，”哥伦比亚大学国际关系教授丁文嘉(Vishaka Desai)在接受电话采访时说。
In one half of Ms. Yousafzai’s dual life, she is the center of an international advocacy operation for girls’ education that now involves a nonprofit organization, two best-selling books, and activities that stretch from Pakistan to Jordan to Kenya. She criticizes not just the Taliban, but also the culture of Pakistan, in which women are rarely granted the same rights and opportunities as men. She has become one of the world’s most prominent faces of moderate Islam, saying in a recent interview that she tried wearing a burqa when she was younger but gave it up: “I realized that it just took away my freedom, and that’s why I stopped wearing it.”
优萨福扎伊拥有双重生活，在其中一重里，她是一个国际女童教育维权组织的中心，现在该组织涉及一个非营利性机构，两本畅销书，以及从巴基斯坦延伸到约旦，再到肯尼亚的活动。她不仅批评塔利班，还批评巴基斯坦，因为该国女性很少获得与男子同等的权利和机会。她已成为全球最有名的伊斯兰温和派面孔之一，在最近的一次采访中，她说自己以前尝试过穿罩袍，但后来放弃了：“我发现，它只会让我觉得不自由，所以我不再穿它了。”
When she met with Mr. Obama last year, she critiqued American military action in her home region. “Instead of soldiers, send books. Instead of sending weapons, send pens,” as she later put it. (Asked how he responded, she gave a knowing look. “He’s a politician,” she said.)
去年，在与奥巴马会面的时候，她批判了美国在她故乡采取的军事行动。她希望“送去书籍，而不是士兵。送去笔，而不是武器，”她后来如是说。（当问及他如何作答时，她露出“你懂的”表情。“他是一个政客，”她说。）
In the other, lesser-known half of Ms. Yousafzai’s life, she lives in a neat brick house near the hospital in Birmingham where she convalesced after being shot by the Taliban in 2012. She has largely recovered, but in her memoir and a recent interview, she spoke of longing for home and straining to fit in to her new environs. She spends hours on Skype each week with a childhood friend in Pakistan, catching up on girls’ education efforts in the Swat Valley but also hometown gossip.
在优萨福扎伊的生活中，鲜为人知的一半是：她住在伯明翰医院附近一栋整洁的砖房里，自2012年被塔利班枪击后，她就住在那里养伤。现在她基​​本上已经痊愈，但在她的回忆录和最近的采访中，她谈到自己想家，正在竭力适应新环境。每周，她都会通过Skype与巴基斯坦的一个儿时朋友聊上数小时，了解斯瓦特山谷女孩受教育的状况，以及家乡的小道消息。
When she first moved to England, she found the clothing on other women so skimpy that she wondered if there was a national fabric shortage. She wears a standard British uniform to school each day — green sweater, striped shirt, tights — but adds a longer skirt and a headscarf for modesty. She still goes to therapy sessions to regain the use of her facial muscles, she wrote in her book, and tries not to dwell on the operations she may need in the future. She has grown to love cupcakes, but does not hide the fact that she and her family find England cold and isolating. “We are just a few feet away from the next house, but for all we know of our neighbor it might as well be a mile,” she wrote of her new life.
她刚搬到英国时，发现其他女性着装清凉，她想知道这里是否出现了全国性的服装面料短缺。每一天，她都穿着标准的英式制服上学——绿色毛衣、条纹衬衫、连裤袜——但穿了一条较长的裙子，戴着一条头巾，以示端庄。她在书中写道，她仍然在接受康复治疗，以恢复面部肌肉的功能，对于以后可能需要做的手术，她试图不要想太多。她爱上了杯糕，但也直言表示，她和家人觉得英格兰气候寒冷，人际疏远。“我们和邻居的房子相距只有几英尺，但我们对邻居的了解和一英里外的人差不多，”她在书中谈到她的新生活。
“It’s odd to be so well known but to be lonely at the same time,” she added.
“有这么多的人认识我，与之同时，我却感到很孤独，这真奇怪，”她写道。