ROTHERHAM, England — It started on the bumper cars in the children’s arcade of the local shopping mall. Lucy was 12, and a group of teenage boys, handsome and flirtatious, treated her and her friends to free rides and ice cream after school.
英格兰罗瑟勒姆——噩梦是从当地购物中心儿童游乐场里的碰碰车上开始的。一群帅气、轻浮的男孩，放学后请年仅12岁的露西(Lucy)和她的朋友们坐碰碰车，吃冰激凌。
Over time, older men were introduced to the girls, while the boys faded away. Soon they were getting rides in real cars, and were offered vodka and marijuana. One man in particular, a Pakistani twice her age and the leader of the group, flattered her and bought her drinks and even a mobile phone. Lucy liked him.
后来，这些十几岁的男孩向小女孩们介绍了一些比较年长的男子，之后就逐渐消失了。她们很快就坐上了真正的车，还尝到了伏特加和大麻。这个团伙的头目，一个年龄比露西大一倍的巴基斯坦男人，还给她买了饮料和手机。露西喜欢他。
The rapes started gradually, once a week, then every day: by the war memorial in Clifton Park, in an alley near the bus station, in countless taxis and, once, in an apartment where she was locked naked in a room and had to service half a dozen men lined up outside.
他们渐渐开始强奸露西。起初一周一次，然后是每天都有：在克里夫顿公园战争纪念碑附近，在公交站附近的小巷，在无数的出租车上，有一次她被锁在一所公寓里的房间里，赤身裸体，被迫为外面六个排队的男人服务。
She obliged. How could she not? They knew where she lived. “If you don’t come back, we will rape your mother and make you watch,” they would say.
她只能从命。她怎么可能不这么做？他们知道她的住处。他们说，“如果你不回来，我们就会强奸你的母亲，让你眼睁睁地看着。”
At night, she would come home and hide her soiled clothes at the back of her closet. When she finally found the courage to tell her mother, just shy of her 14th birthday, two police officers came to collect the clothes as evidence, half a dozen bags of them.
晚上她回家后，会将弄脏的衣服藏到衣橱后面。她最终在14岁生日前，鼓起勇气告诉了母亲，两名警察到家里收集衣服作为证据，他们拿走了六袋衣服。
But a few days later, they called to say the bags had been lost.
但几天之后，警察打电话称袋子丢了。
“All of them?” she remembers asking. A check was mailed, 140 pounds, or $232, for loss of property, and the family was discouraged from pressing charges. It was the girl’s word against that of the men. The case was closed.
她记得自己问道，“都丢了吗？”警察给她寄来了一张140英镑（约合1430元人民币）的支票，赔偿财产损失，并劝她的家人不要提出控告。女孩的话对那些男子不利，但案子不了了之。
Lucy’s account of her experience is emblematic of what investigators say happened during a 16-year reign of terror and impunity in this poor northern English town of 257,000, where at least 1,400 children, some as young as 11, were groomed for sexual exploitation while the authorities looked the other way. One girl told investigators that gang rape was part of growing up in her neighborhood.
露西讲述的经历具有代表性，调查人员称英国北部这个贫穷的小镇经历了16年的恐怖，相关人员逍遥法外，镇上至少有1400名儿童——最小的11岁——受到诱骗，遭到性侵害。但当局睁一只眼闭一只眼。一名女孩告诉调查人员，在她所在的社区，遭到轮奸是成长过程的一部分。
Between 1997 and 2013, despite numerous reports of sexual abuse, only one case, involving three teenage girls, was prosecuted, and five men were sent to jail, according to an official report into the sexual exploitation of children in Rotherham published last week.
上周发布的一份有关罗瑟勒姆儿童遭受性侵害的官方报告显示，在1997至2013年间，尽管有很多人报案称遭到性虐待，但只有一起涉及三名少女的案件的嫌疑人受到检方起诉，五名男子被送入监狱。
Even now, the official reaction has been dominated by partisan finger-pointing and politics. The leader of the Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council has resigned, and the police chief is under pressure to follow suit. But criminal investigations continue, and more than a dozen victims are suing the police and the Council for negligence.
即使到现在，官方的回应都是一些党派指责和政治举动。罗瑟勒姆都会自治市委员会(Rotherham Metropolitan Borough)的负责人已经辞职，警察局长也面临辞职压力。刑事调查仍在继续进行，十几名受害者起诉警方及该委员会渎职。
The scale and brutality of the abuse in Rotherham have shocked a country already shaken by a series of child abuse scandals involving celebrities, public officials, clerics and teachers at expensive private schools. The Rotherham report suggests that it continues unchecked among the most vulnerable in British society.
罗瑟勒姆性虐待案件的规模及残暴性震惊全国。这个国家已经因为一系列虐童丑闻而深感震惊，这些丑闻涉及明星、公职人员、牧师，以及昂贵的私立学校的老师。罗瑟勒姆的报告称，英国社会中最脆弱的群体仍在遭到侵害。
It has highlighted another uncomfortable dimension of the issue, that of race relations in Britain. The victims identified in the report were all white, while the perpetrators were mostly of Pakistani heritage, many of them working in nighttime industries like taxi driving and takeout restaurants. The same was true in recent prosecutions in Oxford, in southern England, and the northern towns of Oldham and Rochdale, where nine men of Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Afghan origin were given long prison sentences in 2012 for abusing up to 47 girls. Investigators in Scotland have reportedly uncovered a similar pattern of abuse.
报告突显了该问题中另一个令人不安的方面——英国的种族关系。报告中确认身份的受害者都是白人，而作案者大部分都有巴基斯坦血统，其中很多人从事的都是夜间工作，比如出租车、外卖餐馆。近年来在英格兰南部城市牛津、北部城镇奥尔德姆和罗奇代尔公诉的此类案件中，也出现了相同的现象。在罗奇代尔，九名祖籍分别是巴基斯坦、孟加拉国、阿富汗的男子，于2012年因为虐待47名女孩而被处以长期监禁。据称，苏格兰的调查人员也发现了类似的虐待模式。
Sexual abuse of children takes many forms, and the majority of convicted abusers in Britain are white. But as Nazir Afzal, the chief crown prosecutor in charge of sexual violence and himself of Pakistani heritage, put it, “There is no getting away from the fact that there are Pakistani gangs grooming vulnerable girls.”
儿童性侵害存在多种形式，英国被定罪的施暴者大部分是白人。但负责性暴力案件的首席皇家检察官纳齐尔·阿夫扎勒(Nazir Afzal)称，“有一些巴基斯坦团伙诱拐容易受骗的小女孩，这是无法逃避的事实。”他本人也有巴基斯坦血统。
The grooming tends to follow a similar pattern, according to Alexis Jay, a former chief inspector of social work who was commissioned by the Rotherham Council to carry out an independent investigation following a series of reports in The Times of London: a period of courting with young men in public places like town centers, bus stations or shopping malls; the gradual introduction of cigarettes, alcohol and sometimes harder drugs; a sexual relationship with one man, who becomes the “boyfriend” and later demands that the girl prove her love by having sex with his friends; then the threats, blackmail and violence that have deterred so many girls from coming forward.
诱骗过程往往符合相似的模式，曾担任社会工作总督察的亚历克西丝·杰伊(Alexis Jay)说。在伦敦《泰晤士报》(The Times of London)发表了一系列报道后，杰伊在罗瑟勒姆委员会的委托下展开了一项独立调查。她所说的模式是：一些年轻男子会与这些女孩交往一段时间，在城镇中心、公交车站和购物中心等公共场所出双入对；然后逐渐让她们接触香烟、酒精，有时还包括更烈的毒品；一名男子与女孩发生性关系，成为女孩的“男朋友”，随后要求女孩同自己的朋友上床，以证明对自己的爱；最后就是对女孩进行威胁、敲诈并施加暴力，正是因为这个原因，很多女孩才不敢说出真相。
But the report also outlined how those victims and parents who did ask for help were mostly let down by the police and social services, despite a great deal of detail known to them for more than a decade, including, in some cases, the names of possible offenders and their license plate numbers.
不过，报告还提到，那些的确寻求过帮助的受害者和她们的父母，对警方和社会服务机构大多十分失望，尽管10多年来，警方和这些机构对许多情况都一清二楚，对有些案件甚至还知道犯罪嫌疑人的名字和车牌号。
“Nobody can pretend they didn’t know,” Ms. Jay said in an interview.
“没人能够假装自己一无所知，”杰伊在接受采访时说。
Unimpeded, the abuse mushroomed. Over time, investigators found, it evolved from personal gratification to a business opportunity for the men.
由于没有遇到阻碍，此类性侵案件变得越发猖獗。调查人员发现，一段时间以后，对于这些男子来说，强奸女性不再只是为了发泄欲望，而是成了一门生意。
Increasingly, the girls were shared not just among groups of men locally, but sold, or bartered for drugs or guns. They were driven to cities like Sheffield, Manchester and London, where groups of men raped them, sometimes overnight.
越来越多的情况下，这些女孩不光会被当地的不同团伙轮流侵害，还会被贩卖，甚至用来交换毒品和枪支。她们被人开车送到谢菲尔德、曼彻斯特和伦敦等城市，被成群的男人强奸，有时候这些事都发生在一夜之间。
When parents reported their daughters missing, it could take 24 hours for the police to turn up, Ms. Jay said. Some parents, if they called in repeatedly, were fined for wasting police time.
杰伊说，一些父母向警方报告女儿失踪后，警察可能24小时后才会露面。而如果他们多打了几次电话，甚至可能会遭到罚款，理由是浪费了警方的时间。
Some officers and local officials told the investigation that they did not act for fear of being accused of racism. But Ms. Jay said that for years there was an undeniable culture of institutional sexism. Her investigation heard that police referred to victims as “tarts” and to the girls’ abuse as a “lifestyle choice.”
一些警察和当地官员告诉调查人员，他们是因为害怕被指责存在种族歧视，才没有采取行动。但杰伊说，多年以来，体制内存在的性别歧视一直都是不可否认的。她在调查中听说，警方把受害者称作“婊子”，把女孩受到的侵害称作“生活方式的选择”。
In the minutes of a meeting about a girl who had been raped by five men, a police detective refused to put her into the sexual abuse category, saying he knew she had been “100 percent consensual.” She was 12.
在一名女孩遭五名男子强奸的一起案件中，警方会议记录显示，一名警探拒绝把此案归为性侵害这一类别。他说，自己知道她是“百分之百自愿的”。那个女孩只有12岁。
“These girls were often treated with utter contempt,” Ms. Jay said.
杰伊说，“这些女孩常常会直接受到鄙视。”
Lucy, now 25 but too scared to give her last name because, she said, the men who brutalized her still live nearby, knows about contempt. During an interview at her home outside Rotherham, she recalled being questioned about her abuse by police officers who repeatedly referred to the main rapist as her “boyfriend.”
现年25岁的露西知道这种鄙视是怎样的感觉。因为侵害她的男子就住在附近，她不敢提供全名。在罗瑟勒姆郊外的家中接受采访时，露西回忆起了接受警方询问的经历。当时，警方多次用她的“男朋友”来指代主要的强奸者。
The first time she was raped, there were nine men, she said, one on top of her, another to pin her down and force himself into her mouth. Two others restrained a friend of hers, holding open her eyelids to make her watch. The rest of the men, all in their 20s, stood over her, cheering and jeering, and blinding her with the flash of their cameras.
她说，自己第一次遭到强奸时，有九个男人。一个人压在她身上，另一个人按着她，把生殖器塞进她嘴里。还有两个人按着她的一个朋友，扒开她的眼睑，逼她看着这一幕情景。剩下的男子站在她周围，不停地叫嚣和欢呼，用相机的闪光灯闪她的眼睛。
It was November 2002, and Lucy was 13.
那是在2002年11月，露西当时13岁。
When she went to bed that night, she found a text message from the man who had groomed her for months: “Did you get home all right?”
当天夜里，在上床睡觉之前，露西收到了那名诱骗她几个月的男子发来的短信：“平安到家了吗？”
She hesitated, then texted back: “Yes, I’m fine.”
她迟疑了一下，回复道：“是的，我很好。”
At that moment, she said, rape became normality. “I thought, ‘This must be my fault, I must have given them a signal,’ ” she said.
她说当时，被强奸似乎是正常的。“我想，‘这肯定是我的错，一定是我给了他们什么信号，’”她说。
Unlike other victims, Lucy came from a stable family. Her parents owned a convenience store and post office. They lived in a middle-class neighborhood. “I had been brought up in a nice world,” she said. “I thought rapists were people hiding in bushes, and pedophiles were people who drive white vans and park outside schools.”
与其他受害者不同，露西来自一个稳定的家庭。父母拥有一家便利店兼邮电所，他们全家住在一个中产阶级社区。“我成长期间，世界是很美好的，”她说。“我以为强奸犯都藏在灌木丛里，而恋童癖都开着白色面包车，在学校外面等着。”