Adam Fleming and Julia Sommer were surprised by how much they loved Brooklyn.
令亚当·弗莱明(Adam Fleming)和朱莉娅·桑梅尔(Julia Sommer)惊讶的是，他们是如此深深爱着布鲁克林(Brooklyn)。
The couple had lived in Morningside Heights in Manhattan when Ms. Sommer was working on her Ph.D. in neurobiology at Columbia University.
这对夫妻曾在曼哈顿(Manhatta)的晨边高地(Morningside Heights)居住过，当时松桑梅尔正在哥伦比亚大学攻读神经生物学的博士学位。
Back then, Brooklyn had “seemed so far away,” Mr. Fleming said. “Although it was physically close, it was mentally far.”
想当年，布鲁克林“似乎是遥不可及的”，弗莱明说，“尽管实际距离非常近，但心理上的距离却很远。”
But when they returned from Europe, where Ms. Sommer completed her studies, a friend suggested Brooklyn. So they rented a studio with a sleeping loft in a small Brooklyn Heights building.
但是，当俩人一起从欧洲回来，桑梅尔也在那边完成了学业后，一位朋友建议他们住到布鲁克林去。于是，他们在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)的一栋小楼中租了一套带跃层卧室的工作室式的单间公寓(studio)。
“We both had an issue with renting a larger apartment and paying significantly more rent for it,” said Ms. Sommer, who is now a staff scientist working for the autism research initiative at the Simons Foundation. “We always had the dream to be homeowners.” The rent, which started around $1,750 a month, rose to $1,850.
“我们对于租间大公寓、并为此支付大笔租金的事都有所顾忌，”桑梅尔说，她目前作为一名研究员，在为西蒙斯基金会(Simons Foundation)发起的孤独症研究项目工作。“我们一直都梦想着拥有自己的房子。”而他们的房租已经从一开始的大约每月1750美元（约合人民币10629元），涨到了现在的1850美元（约合人民币11236元）。
Brooklyn suited the pair. The people were nice, the restaurants terrific and the borough “full of authenticity,” said Mr. Fleming, a software engineer for Urban Compass, a real estate start-up. “If there is anything my generation values, it is authenticity. Brooklyn is dripping with it.”
布鲁克林很适合这对夫妻。这里的人和善可亲，这里的餐馆无与伦比，而且整个行政区“处处真实”，弗莱明说，他是一家房地产类创业公司Urban Compass的软件工程师。“如果有什么东西是我们这一代人所看重的，那就是真实性。这在布鲁克林区随处可见。”
The couple began the hunt for a house two years ago, just after their marriage. They decided against a co-op or condominium.
两年前，就在他们婚后不久，这对夫妻开始看房。他们一致决定，不要买合作公寓(co-op)或共管公寓(condominium)。
“I feel like a co-op is almost indistinguishable from renting,” said Mr. Fleming, who like his wife is in his early 30s. “There is a tremendous maintenance fee to pay, and people to answer to on the co-op board. It is not freedom to do things your own way.”
“我觉得，买合作公寓和租房住几乎没区别，”弗莱明说，他和妻子一样都刚过30岁。“要交一大笔物业费，还要应付合作公寓委员会的人，无法自由按照自己的方式做事。”
A condo was slightly better, but “I chafe at the idea of a homeowners’ association,” he said. “I feel like it’s taxation without representation.”
共管公寓稍微好一些，但“我对成立房东联合会的主意有点懊恼，”他说，“感觉就像被征了税，却没有选举代表的权力。”
A small multifamily building, on the other hand, “is your project, your passion,” Mr. Fleming said. “I don’t think you fall into ownership in New York City. You’ve got to seek it.”
而另一方面，一栋多户共住型的小型别墅，“就是你的期待和向往，”弗莱明说，“我觉得你不会在纽约市莫名其妙就当上了房东。你得努力寻找这样的机会才行。”
Seek it they did, online and off, spending weekends walking or bicycling through Bedford-Stuyvesant. On a map, they color-coded every block, so they would know to skip the noisy, busy ones and to pursue the leafy, quaint ones. Their budget started in the $600,000 range.
他们的确努力找过了，线上线下地搜索，周末在贝德福德-斯图文森(Bedford-Stuyvesant)一带散步或骑车。他们在一张地图上用颜色标记了每个街区，以便能特意避开人声鼎沸、熙熙攘攘的地方，只寻找绿树成荫、古朴雅致之处。他们一开始把预算定在60万美元（约合人民币364万元）上下。
They wanted a place near the A or C train, in “mediocre condition that we could work with,” Mr. Fleming said. It needed to be authentically brownstone Brooklyn, with high ceilings, original details and “features you cannot recreate later.”
他们想找到一处靠近地铁或轻轨的地方，处于“中等状况，我们可以改造，”弗莱明说。房子必须是真正的布鲁克林褐色砂石房，有高高的天花板、原有的装修细部及“你此后无法重塑的种种特征”。
A two-family rowhouse on Pacific Street in Crown Heights, which Mr. Fleming called “a grand old dame,” fit the bill. It was listed at $700,000. But the couple weren’t familiar with Crown Heights, and preferred Bed-Stuy. (That one later sold for $650,000.)
皇冠高地(Crown Heights)太平洋街(Pacific Street)上的一栋两家共用式联排别墅(rowhouse)被弗莱明称为“一位华贵的老夫人”，刚好符合要求。这栋房屋的售价为70万美元（约合人民币425万元）。但是，这对夫妻对皇冠高地的环境不熟悉，宁愿住在贝德福德-斯图文森一带。（那栋房屋后来以65万美元[约合人民币395万元]的价格出售了。）
The competition for such houses was stiff, and the couple realized they would have to spend more than they had thought. “With remarkable efficiency,” Mr. Fleming said, “property is being converted from older owners, often in dire financial straits, and sold at a steep premium to cash-only buyers,” many of them investors.
围绕这类房源的竞争都是刚性需求，所以这对夫妻意识到，他们要花的钱可能比自己设想的多。“他们的效率奇高，”弗莱明说，“通常由于耸人听闻的财务危机，房产从老房东那儿被转手，然后以超高的溢价卖给只付现金的买家，”其中多数是房产投资客。
Some brownstones were immediately returned to the market at a higher price, “sold with the mattress still warm,” Mr. Fleming said. Others were renovated and then either resold or rented out.
一些褐色砂石房屋立刻以更高的售价回到市场上，“床垫都还是温热的，就卖出去了，”弗莱明说。另一些房屋经过翻修，然后被重新销售或租出去。
They liked a three-family on Hancock Street in Bed-Stuy. The agent said another buyer was interested. “It’s really nerve-racking,” Ms. Sommer said, “because you never know if this other buyer really exists or they are just making it up.”
他们喜欢上了在贝德福德-斯图文森一带位于汉考克大街(Hancock Street)的一栋三家共用式住宅。房产中介说，还有一位买家也很有兴趣。“这真是伤脑筋，”桑梅尔说，“因为你完全不知道是真的另有一位买家，还是他们杜撰出来的。”
After weeks of back-and-forth, the couple offered the listing price, $700,000. But the appraised value was $550,000. That was a deal-breaker, because they could borrow against only the lesser amount.
经过数周的思来想去，这对夫妻按挂牌价报出了70万美元（约合人民币425万元）。但评估机构对这栋房子的估价只有55万美元（约合人民币334万元）。这就破坏了这桩交易，因为他们只能凭这个较低的评估价来贷款。
“It took so long, and you invest so much energy, and it just pops in a bubble within a week,” Ms. Sommer said. (That house later sold for $680,000.)
“时间耗得太久了，而且你还投入了那么多精力，然后不到一个礼拜，这件事就化为泡影，”桑梅尔说。（那栋房屋后来以68万美元[约合人民币413万元]的价格出售了。）
Investors were so aggressive, Mr. Fleming said, that “you see salespeople walking the streets, pressuring sellers who are property-rich and cash-poor.”
投资客都是那么野心勃勃，弗莱明说，以至于“你会看见销售人员走街串巷地对那些坐拥很多房产、却没什么现金的卖家施加压力。”
The couple bypassed places with structural problems. In one, “I was attacked by pigeons living on the top floor,” Mr. Fleming said. In others, you could “look up and see the sky.”
这对夫妻避开了一些结构有问题的房屋。有一次，“我被住在顶楼的鸽子攻击了，”弗莱明说。还有几次，你“一抬头就看见了天空。”
They went to see a two-family rowhouse on a beautiful block of MacDonough Street in the Stuyvesant Heights Historic District. The couple offered $880,000. But because of complications, Ms. Sommer said, pursuing the transaction seemed like “an incredibly lengthy and painful process without any guarantee for us of a positive outcome.”
他们来到斯图文森高地的历史区(Stuyvesant Heights Historic District)，去看一栋位于麦克唐纳街(MacDonough Street)的两家共用式联排别墅。这对夫妻报出了88万美元（约合人民币534万元）的价格。但鉴于这桩交易的复杂性，桑梅尔说，进行这笔交易似乎是“一个无比漫长而又痛苦的过程，而且我们也完全无法保证能得到什么积极的结果”。
As the hunt grew more difficult, they loosened their requirements for a postcard-perfect block. And so a tip from someone in the neighborhood led them to a three-family rowhouse with beautiful bay windows and high ceilings.  It was on a bus route in Crown Heights, a location they would have bypassed earlier, but near the desired A and C trains. The house had been used primarily for storage, though it was classified as a single-room-occupancy dwelling.
随着找房的形势变得越发严峻，他们不再要求能找到一栋像明信片上那么完美的房子了。于是，根据社区内一位邻居的消息，他们找到了一栋三家共用式联排别墅，那里有美丽的飘窗和高高的天花板。这栋房子位于皇冠高地(Crown Heights)的一条巴士路线旁，这是一个他们以前会避开的位置，但就在他们想要的地铁和轻轨附近。这栋房屋起初被用做库房，尽管它被归类为单间宿舍式寓所。
The couple bought it for $950,000, closing in midsummer.
这对夫妻以95万美元（约合人民币577万元）的价格买下了它，并在仲夏季节完成了房产交割。
They remain in the studio, awaiting a “certification of no harassment,” proving they did not evict any residents, which they expect in a few months. When they are finally able to move in, they will do so with their baby, who is due next month.
他们目前还住在那套单间公寓里，在等待一份证明他们不曾驱逐任何住户的“无骚扰认证”。几个月之后，他们就能得偿所愿了。等到他们最终可以搬进新家的时候，他们会带上自己的宝宝。再有一个月，孩子就要出生了。
Meanwhile, they have received more than a dozen solicitations from investors, including phone calls and notes at the door. “They are very aggressive in terms of buying people out and flipping the house,” Mr. Fleming said. “They are quite resourceful.”
与此同时，他们已经遭到十多次房产投资客的游说，包括电话和门上的留言条。“他们咄咄逼人地想要花钱把人清出去，再把房产转手卖掉，”弗莱明说，“这些人都财力雄厚。”