WASHINGTON — In an extraordinarily swift return to politicking after a tumultuous first month in office, the White House on Wednesday said President Trump will hold the first campaign rally of his four-week-old administration on Saturday.
华盛顿——在经历就职后动荡的第一个月后，白宫周三表示，特朗普总统将于周六为自己上台四周的政府举行第一次竞选集会，异常快速地转向了政治活动。
The rally, to be held in an airplane hangar in Melbourne, Fla., is an indication that Mr. Trump, who has sometimes felt isolated in the White House, is eager to get outside of Washington and relive the rapturous reception that greeted him during the presidential campaign. Mr. Trump exulted in large crowds assembled at cavernous venues throughout his 2016 bid, and spent the first days of his presidency quibbling over how many Americans attended his inauguration.
这场集会将在佛罗里达州墨尔本市的一个飞机库举行。它表明，在白宫时有与世隔绝之感的特朗普渴望离开华盛顿，重温总统竞选期间受到的热烈欢迎。在整个2016年竞选期间，特朗普在巨大场所的大量观众面前感到欢欣鼓舞，而就职后的前几天，他为多少美国人参加了他的就职典礼而争辩。
On Wednesday, during a joint news conference with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, Mr. Trump answered a question about whether his administration was flirting with xenophobia and racism in part by noting the support he received in the election.
周三，在与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)举行的联合新闻发布会上，面对一个关于他的政府是否在挑拨仇外主义和种族主义的问题，特朗普的回答有一部分提到他在竞选期间得到的支持。
“I just want to say that we are very honored by the victory that we had — 306 Electoral College votes,” Mr. Trump said. “There’s tremendous enthusiasm out there.”
“我只想说，我们为自己取得的胜利感到非常荣幸——306张选举人票，”特朗普说。“我们拥有热情的支持。”
Not long after, in a posting on Twitter, Mr. Trump invited his nearly 25 million followers to attend the Saturday evening event, which will take place just up the coast from his Mar-a-Lago retreat in Palm Beach where he plans to spend the weekend. It will be his third weekend in a row on Florida’s Gold Coast.
不久之后，特朗普在Twitter上发帖邀请近2500万关注者参加周六晚间的活动，它将在棕榈滩马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)附近的海边举办，他计划在那里度周末。那将是他连续第三次在佛罗里达州的黄金海岸度周末。
“We are going to put America back to work,” a message accompanying the posting said. “We are going to put people before government.”
“我们将让美国恢复活力，”那个帖子还说，“我们将让人民优先于政府。”
The White House would not provide any additional information about the rally. Officials referred questions to a member of Mr. Trump’s political organization, who also did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
关于这次集会，白宫没有提供更多信息。官员们表示，特朗普政治组织的一名成员将回答相关问题，但此人没有立即回应置评请求。
“It’s being run by the campaign,” Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said on Wednesday, without elaborating. He would not say why the president would be holding a campaign rally so soon after taking office.
“它正由竞选团队运作，”白宫新闻秘书肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)周三表示。他没有提及任何具体细节。他没有解释为什么总统会在就职后这么快举行竞选集会。
The rally will be only the second public appearance by Mr. Trump outside of Washington since he took office. On Friday, he is scheduled to visit a Boeing plant in North Charleston, S.C., for the unveiling of the aerospace manufacturer’s new Dreamliner aircraft.
这场集会将是特朗普就职以来第二次在华盛顿之外公开亮相。他计划周五在南卡罗来纳州北查尔斯顿参观波音公司(Boeing)的一个工厂，为该飞机制造公司的新款梦想客机(Dreamliner)揭幕。
Mr. Trump filed paperwork with the Federal Election Commission for his 2020 re-election campaign on Jan. 20, the day he was sworn in. That allowed him to continue to accept contributions — including proceeds from the sales of his popular red “Make America Great Again” hats — without running afoul of the law.
特朗普在1月20日就职当日就向联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)提交了2020年连任竞选的文件。这样一来他就可以继续合法接受捐款——包括很受欢迎的“让美国恢复伟大荣光”红帽子的销售收入。
Mr. Trump ended the 2016 campaign flush with funds, in part because of substantial sales of the hats. At the end of 2016, he had $7,611,702.92 cash on hand and no debt.
结束2016年竞选时，特朗普手头资金充裕，一个来源是帽子的巨大销量。2016年底，他手头有7611702.92美元现金，没有负债。
The rally comes at a precarious time for Mr. Trump, as his White House is reeling from personnel turmoil and has yet to score any legislative victories. On Tuesday, he accepted the resignation of his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who had become embroiled in allegations that he had improper contacts with Russian officials before Mr. Trump took office. That was followed on Wednesday by the abrupt withdrawal of Andrew F. Puzder, the president’s nominee to be secretary of labor, amid allegations that he had abused his ex-wife and employed an illegal immigrant.
这次集会发生在特朗普的一个不稳定时期，因为他的白宫正因人事动荡而晕头转向，尚未取得任何法律胜利。周二，他接受了国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的辞职，后者被指控在特朗普就职前与俄罗斯官员进行不当接触。周三，总统提名的劳工部长安德鲁·F·普兹代尔(Andrew F. Puzder)因被指控虐待前妻以及雇佣非法移民而突然退出。
Mr. Trump had vowed to move quickly to put his policy agenda in place once in the White House. But his effort to use executive power to crack down on immigration has faltered in the face of legal challenges, and his administration has yet to issue a proposal either for repealing the health care law he railed against during the campaign or enacting the tax overhaul he has promised.
特朗普曾发誓，一旦入主白宫就马上行动，实施自己的政策计划。但他利用行政权力打击移民的努力在法律挑战面前受挫。他的政府尚未发布议案，撤销他在竞选中强烈抨击的医改法案，或执行他曾承诺的税收改革。
Larry M. Noble, the general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center, a nonpartisan group, said he was not aware of any president having held a campaign rally this early in his tenure.
无党派组织竞选法律中心(Campaign Legal Center)的总顾问拉里·M·诺布尔(Larry M. Noble)表示，他没听说过哪位总统在上任之初就举办竞选集会。
“Usually, they are too busy trying to get their administration in place,” Mr. Noble said. “More importantly, normally the president wants to delay candidate status so that he can travel as president making speeches, announcing new policies and actions, promoting his agenda and attacking his opponents in Congress without having to use campaign funds.”
“通常，这个时候他们在忙着组建政府，”诺布尔说，“更重要的是，通常总统想要晚一点再进入候选人状态，以便他能以总统的身份巡回演讲，宣布新政策和行动，宣传自己的计划，不必动用竞选资金在国会打击对手。”
Barack Obama did not file his statement of candidacy for re-election until April 2011, more than two years after he took office, while George W. Bush waited until May of 2003 and Bill Clinton until April of 1995.
贝拉克·奥巴马直到就职两年多后的2011年4月才提交连任竞选声明；乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)等到了2003年5月；比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)等到了1995年4月。
Mr. Trump may be moving now, Mr. Noble said, to ensure he can address a friendly crowd devoid of protesters.
诺布尔称，特朗普现在行动也许是为了确保能向一群友好的、没有抗议的观众讲话。
“My guess is that he intends to control who is invited to the rally and press access by calling the rally a candidate event and paying for it out of campaign funds,” Mr. Noble said. “If it was an official White House event, he would have less control over it.”
“我猜他把这次集会称为候选人活动，用竞选资金支付费用，是为了控制受邀人士和媒体，”诺布尔说，“如果是白宫的官方活动，他的控制力就小了。”
Mr. Trump is likely to travel to the event on Air Force One and will have a sizable contingent of Secret Service and staff aides with him, as presidents always do when they travel. Campaign finance laws dictate that the cost of such a flight be shared between the campaign organizing the rally and the White House.
特朗普很可能会搭乘空军一号(Air Force One)去参加活动，会有大批特勤局人员和助手陪同，因为总统出行时总是这样。竞选财务法规定，此类旅行的费用由组织集会的竞选团队和白宫分摊。
It is not abnormal for a sitting president to hold a political rally in the months before an election, and Mr. Trump has said he plans to campaign actively for Republicans who support him and against Democrats who seek to stymie his agenda. But Mr. Trump’s return to the campaign trail on Saturday is unusually early. Even the midterm congressional elections for members of Congress are still 21 months away.
在任总统在选举前数月举行政治集会并不反常，特朗普曾说，他计划积极为支持他的共和党人竞选，打击试图阻挠他计划的民主党人。但特朗普周六就返回竞选轨道真是早得不同寻常。甚至连国会议员的中期选举也要在21个月之后才举行。