Days before I was to meet Battushig Myanganbayar at his home in Mongolia, he sent me an e-mail with a modest request: Would I bring him a pair of tiny XBee wireless antennas? Electronic parts are scarce in Mongolia (he used components from old elevators for some of his projects), and packages ordered online take weeks to show up.
在去蒙古的巴图诗蒙·延甘巴亚(Battushig Myanganbayar)家几天之前，他给我发了一封电邮，提出一个小要求：我能给他带一对微型XBee无线天线吗？在蒙古，电子元件很稀缺（他自己做的某些东西，零件来自一些旧电梯），如果从网上订购，则要花几周时间才能到货。
When I arrived, antennas in hand, at his apartment in the middle-class neighborhood of Khan Uul, in Ulan Bator, Battushig, 16, led me down a steep incline into the building’s underground garage to show me what they were for. Many children in the city play in their apartment buildings’ driveways, but this one seemed oriented in a particularly dangerous way. Battushig worried about his 10-year-old sister and her friends being hit by an exiting car. Standing in the concrete space, its aqua walls nicked, he pointed overhead to a white box containing a sensor from which he had run wires to a siren with a flashing red light outside in the building’s driveway. His Garage Siren gave his sister and the other children time to get out of the way when a car was coming.
16岁的巴图诗蒙居住在乌兰巴托汗乌拉中产阶级居民区的一栋公寓楼里，当我手拿天线，出现在他面前时，他领着我走下陡峭的坡道，进入这栋楼的地下车库，以便给我展示天线的用途。在这座城里，很多孩子都在自家公寓楼的车道上玩耍，但这里的格局似乎给人一种尤其危险的感觉。巴图诗蒙担心10岁的妹妹和她的朋友们被车库驶出的汽车撞到。站在这个水泥空间里，浅绿色的墙上是缕缕刻痕，他指着头顶上方一个白色的盒子，里面有一个传感器，他已经用电线把这个传感器接到公寓楼车道外一只可以闪烁红光的警笛上。当有汽车驶出时，这个“车库警笛”就可以提醒他妹妹和其他孩子，让他们有足够的时间离开车道。
Battushig, playing the role of the car, moved into the sensor’s path to show me how it worked, but it was clear he was not entirely satisfied with his design. “The use of the long wires is very inconvenient for my users,” he said, almost apologetically, clasping his hands together in emphasis. He realized that contractors would be reluctant to install the siren in other buildings if they had to deal with cumbersome wiring, so he was developing a wireless version. Thus, the antennas.
为了给我展示“车库警笛”的工作方式，巴图诗蒙扮作一辆汽车，进入传感器的感应范围，很明显，他对自己的设计并不是完全满意。“电线这么长，对用户来说很不方便，”他把双手握在一起强调说，声音里几乎带着歉意。巴图诗蒙意识到，如果承建商要对付这样繁琐的布线，他们就不愿意把它安装在其他建筑物里，所以他正在开发无线版的“车库警笛”。难怪他需要天线。
Battushig has the round cheeks of a young boy, but he is not your typical teenager. He hasn’t read Harry Potter (“What will I learn from that?”) and doesn’t like listening to music (when a friend saw him wearing headphones, he couldn’t believe it; it turned out Battushig was preparing for the SAT). His projects are what make him happy. “In electrical engineering, there is no limit,” he said. “It is like playing with toys.” He unveiled Garage Siren in August 2012, posting instructions and a demonstration video on YouTube. The project impressed officials at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology — where Battushig planned to apply for college — but at that point they were already aware of his abilities. Two months earlier, Battushig, then 15, became one of 340 students out of 150,000 to earn a perfect score in Circuits and Electronics, a sophomore-level class at M.I.T. and the first Massive Open Online Course, or MOOC — a college course filmed and broadcast free or nearly free to anyone with an Internet connection — offered by the university.
巴图诗蒙有着男孩常见的圆脸颊，但他不是你眼中那些典型的90后，他没有读过《哈利·波特》（“我能从中学到什么？”）不喜欢听音乐（当一个朋友看见他戴着耳机，觉得难以置信。其实那时巴图诗蒙在为SAT考试做准备。）他的项目就是他的兴趣爱好。“电气工程中有无限可能，”他说，“就像是玩玩具。”他在2012年8月推出了“车库警笛”项目，在网上贴出说明，还上传了一个演示视频到YouTube上。巴图诗蒙计划申请去麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)上大学，而这个项目给该校的官员留下了深刻印象，其实那个时候，他们已经了解巴图诗蒙的能力了。两个月之前，15万名学生中有340名在麻省理工大二课程《电路和电子》中获得满分，时年15岁的巴图诗蒙就是其中之一；《电路和电子》也是该校提供的第一门“大型开放式网络课程”，即MOOC(massive open online courses)。该项目将大学课程拍摄下来，放到互联网上，只要你能上网，就可以免费或者近乎免费地观看。
How does a student from a country in which a third of the population is nomadic, living in round white felt tents called gers on the vast steppe, ace an M.I.T. course even though nothing like this is typically taught in Mongolian schools? The answer has to do with Battushig’s extraordinary abilities, of course, but also with the ambitions of his high-school principal. Enkhmunkh Zurgaanjin, the principal of the Sant School, was the first Mongolian to graduate from M.I.T., in 2009, and he has tried since then to bring science and technology labs to his students. “My vision,” he told me, “is to have more skilled engineers to develop Mongolia. To do that, everything has to start from the beginning.” In the past decade, Mongolia, which had limited landlines, invested heavily in its information technology infrastructure and now has an extensive 3G network. Most homes in Ulan Bator have Internet connections, and almost everyone, including nomads, has at least one cellphone. Even on the steppe, with only sheep in sight, you can get a signal.
蒙古三分之一的人口是游牧者，生活在广袤的草原上，住在名为“蒙古包”的圆形白色毡帐篷里，在这样一个国家，在蒙古学校通常都不开这门课的情况下，一名学生是如何在麻省理工学院的课程中得到满分的呢？答案当然是巴图诗蒙的能力出众，不过这也和他高中校长的雄心壮志分不开。桑特学校(Sant School)的英蒙克·卓尔甘吉(Enkhmunkh Zurgaanjin)校长在2009年时，成为了第一位从麻省理工学院毕业的蒙古人，此后他一直试图让学生了解科学技术实验手段。他告诉我，“我的目标，就是有更多技术熟练的工程师来开发蒙古，而要做到这一点，一切都得从头开始。”过去10年，蒙古在信息技术基础设施上投入了巨资，之前该国的固定电话数量较少，现在它有了一个覆盖广泛的3G网络。乌兰巴托的大多数家庭都开通了互联网，包括游牧者在内的几乎所有人，都至少有一部手机。即使是在只有羊群出没的草原上，也有手机信号。
Zurgaanjin had students watch the Circuits and Electronics MOOC lectures at home, just like thousands around the world, but he wanted to supplement them with real-world labs. Tony Kim, a college friend working on his Ph.D. in electrical engineering at Stanford, agreed to visit Mongolia for 10 weeks and guide students through the labs using real equipment. Kim brought three suitcases of electronics supplies, immediately making his classroom one of the best-equipped labs in the entire country. Because the class was not approved by the ministry of education, students had to take it in addition to their regular courses. Battushig persuaded his parents to upgrade the Internet speed at their home from 1 megabit per second to 3 (the average in the United States is 8.6) to make it easier to watch the lectures.
卓尔甘吉让学生们到他家观看《电路与电子》的MOOC讲座，就像世界各地数以千计的人们一样，但他希望用真正的实验室来作为补充。托尼·金(Tony Kim)是他大学时的朋友，正在斯坦福大学攻读电气工程博士学位。金同意去蒙古待上10个星期，引导学生用真正的设备做实验。他带来了三个行李箱的电子设备，立刻使他的课堂成为整个蒙古装备最精良的实验室之一，因为这门课没有经过教育部的批准，学生必须在正规课程之外加学这门课。为了更方便地观看MOOC的讲座，巴图诗蒙说服父母，把家中的网速从每秒1兆升级到每秒3兆（美国的平均网速是每秒8.6兆）。
Battushig was one of 20 students, ranging in age from 13 to 17, to enroll in the class. About half dropped out. The course is difficult in any setting — M.I.T. sophomores often pull all-nighters — and the Mongolian students were taking it in a second language. Battushig, however, thrived. “I can’t compare it to a regular class,” he said. “I had never done that kind of thing before. It was really a watershed moment for me.” To help his classmates, he made videos in Mongolian that offered pointers and explanations of difficult concepts and posted them on YouTube. Kim, who had taught similar classes at M.I.T., told me, “If Battushig, at the age of 15, were a student at M.I.T., he would be one of the top students — if not the top.”
20名13岁到17的学生参加了这门课的学习，巴图诗蒙就是其中之一。大约一半的学生中途退出。从各种角度来说这门课都很困难——麻省理工学院的大二学生经常为它开通宵——而且教学语言还不是蒙古族学生的母语。但巴图诗蒙表现抢眼。“我不能把它跟正规课程相提并论，”他说，“我从来没有做过这样的事情。这对我来说真的是一个分水岭。”为了帮助同学们，他制作了蒙语视频来讲解难懂的概念，指出它们的关键点，并把这些视频发布在YouTube上。金曾在麻省理工教过类似的课程，他告诉我，“如果15岁的巴图诗蒙在麻省理工读书，他就算不是最优秀的学生，也会是最优秀的学生之一。”
In the past year and a half, more than 100 schools, including Harvard, Caltech and the University of Texas, have invested millions of dollars in MOOCs. Many in higher education believe that these courses can make a quality education more affordable and accessible to far more students and eventually provide additional revenue streams for the universities that offer them. Critics, though, argue that MOOCs threaten the economic survival of nonelite colleges and are an inadequate replacement for the teaching and support of live professors. Anant Agarwal, a professor of Circuits and Electronics and the president of edX, a MOOC platform started last year by M.I.T. and Harvard, said that seeing Kim and Zurgaanjin combine his online lectures with in-person teaching spurred edX to help organize 20 such “blended” classes. “It was extraordinarily creative,” he said. “It changed the way I think.”
在过去一年半的时间里，包括哈佛(Harvard)、加州理工(Caltech)和德克萨斯大学(University of Texas)在内的100多所院校，已经在MOOC讲座中投入了成百上千万美元。高等教育界的很多人士都相信，这些课程可以让比现在多得多的学生更容易负担和接受到优质教育，最终为提供MOOC讲座的大学带来额外收入。但是，批评者认为，MOOC从经济上对非精英院校的生存构成了威胁，但又不足以代替教师的真人教学和现实中的帮助。安南特·阿加瓦尔(Anant Agarwal)是《电路和电子》课程的一名教授，也是麻省理工和哈佛去年推出的MOOC平台edX的总裁，他说看到金和卓尔甘吉把他的网上讲座跟真人教学结合在一起之后，得到启发，随后edX帮助开设了20个这样的“混合”课堂。“此举创意非凡，改变了我的思考方式，”他说。
Battushig’s success also showed that schools could use MOOCs to find exceptional students all over the globe. After the course, Kim and Zurgaanjin suggested that Battushig apply to M.I.T., and he has just started his freshman year — one of 88 international students in a freshman class of 1,116. Stuart Schmill, the dean of admissions, said Battushig’s perfect score proved that he could handle the work. Schmill also said that although M.I.T. already seeks students from around the world, many come via special programs organized by charities or international schools. (Zurgaanjin attended the United World College in Wales before applying to M.I.T.) “The MOOCs may well offer the opportunity for us to get more students from remote areas who haven’t been in these magnet cultures,” Schmill said.
巴图诗蒙的成功也表明，学校可以利用MOOC在全球范围寻找极其优秀的学生。课程结束后，金和卓尔甘吉建议巴图诗蒙申请MIT。他目前刚刚开始自己的大一生活。在1116名大一新生中，巴图诗蒙是88名国际学生之一。负责招生工作的主任斯图尔特·施米尔(Stuart Schmill)说，巴图诗蒙的满分证明，他能应付学业。施米尔还说，尽管MIT已经在招收全世界的学生，但许多学生是通过慈善组织或国际学校的特别项目来MIT的。（申请MIT之前，卓尔甘吉就读于威尔士的联合世界书院[United World College]）“MOOC很可能让我们有机会招到更多来自偏远地区的学生，而他们从未体验过这些魅力十足的文化，”施米尔说。
Battushig, who is now 17, settled into his German-themed dorm last month, a single in Desmond House. He has begun classes, including introductory courses in electronics, solid-state chemistry and biology, and had his photo taken with the renowned physics professor Walter Lewin (which he posted on Facebook). He joined photography and tennis clubs — and, he said, discovered that “I’m really a great player at billiards.” He is heeding his mother’s warning not to overindulge on pizza (he has a self-imposed limit of two slices a week). Battushig may be embracing student life, but as his father told me months earlier when we sat down to a family lunch of Korean-style kimbap, rice-noodle salad and cooked sheep: “He is thinking, all the time, how to solve problems. He has so many ideas. He often says to me, ‘I want to make good things for humans.’ If he does good things for humans, he does a great thing for us.”
现已17岁的巴图诗蒙在上月住进了他那德国主题的宿舍，即德斯蒙德之家(Desmond House)的一间单人宿舍。他已经开始上课了，包括电子学方面的入门课程、固体化学和生物学。他还与著名的物理学教授瓦尔特·列文(Walter Lewin)合了影（他把照片放在了Facebook上）。此外，他参加了摄影和网球俱乐部，还说发现“我的台球打得还真挺好”。他接受了母亲不要过度迷恋披萨饼的警告（他自己规定一周只能吃两块）。巴图诗蒙可能刚开始学生生活，但正如几个月前，当我和他的一家人共进午餐，吃韩式紫菜包饭、米线沙拉和煮羊肉时，他父亲告诉我的那样：“他一直都在思考如何解决问题。他有太多的想法。他经常和我说，‘我想创造一些对人类有益的东西。’如果他真能创造出有益人类的东西，他就为我们做了件大好事。”