WASHINGTON — What a day for President Trump’s first face-to-face meeting with a top Russian official.
华盛顿——首次与一名俄罗斯高官面对面会晤的特朗普总统真会挑时候。
Only hours after dismissing James B. Comey as director of the F.B.I., amid an investigation into the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russian officials, the president met with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, at the White House. It is the only item on the president’s public schedule for Wednesday.
在联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)被解职仅仅若干小时后，在当局针对特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯官员的接触开展调查之际，总统在白宫会见了俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V.Lavrov)。这是总统周三的公开日程表上唯一一件事情。
Mr. Lavrov began his day at the State Department, meeting Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, and the subject of Mr. Comey came up, briefly, in what the State Department hoped would be a controlled encounter with the news media.
当天，拉夫罗夫先赶到国务院，会见国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)；与媒体碰面时——国务院原本希望这是一场受控的碰面——关于科米的问题短暂地浮出水面。
After Mr. Tillerson thanked Mr. Lavrov for coming to Washington, the two men began to leave the diplomatic reception room on the seventh floor of the State Department. When a reporter shouted a question about whether Mr. Comey’s dismissal “cast a shadow” on the meeting, Mr. Lavrov, known for a puckish sense of humor, shot back:
在蒂勒森对拉夫罗夫到访华盛顿表示感谢后，两人开始从位于国务院七楼的外交接待厅往外走。一名记者高声发问，科米被解职是否会让此次会晤“笼罩上一层阴影”。以恶作剧式的幽默感闻名的拉夫罗夫反击道：
“Was he fired? You’re kidding! You’re kidding!”
“他被解职了？你在开玩笑吧！你在开玩笑吧！”
He then turned and followed Mr. Tillerson into his office.
他随后转过身去，跟随蒂勒森走进其办公室。
The bare-bones description given by Mr. Tillerson’s spokesman suggested that on the official agenda are the new Russian plan for safe zones in Syria, the campaign against the Islamic State, weapons development in North Korea and the continued Russian activity in Ukraine. But the two men are planning no news conference, perhaps because the one they held in Moscow, one month ago, proved little more than how far apart the two countries were.
蒂勒森的发言人提供的简略信息显示，俄罗斯关于叙利亚安全区的新计划、打击伊斯兰国的行动、朝鲜的武器研制以及俄罗斯在乌克兰的持续活动等议题，都在官方日程之列。但两人并不打算召开新闻发布会，这或许是因为他们一个月前在莫斯科召开的发布会除了证明两国关系有多疏离以外几乎毫无用处。
At that news conference, they differed on whether Syria was responsible for a gas attack that killed civilians and led to the American airstrike on a Syrian military base. At the same event, Mr. Tillerson left no doubt that he believed the American intelligence reports that Russia had sought to interfere with the 2016 presidential election. Before and since, Mr. Trump has described that as “fake news,” and said the continued investigation was a waste of taxpayer money.
出席那场发布会时，他们在叙利亚是否对一场毒气袭击负有责任的问题上各执己见。那场导致平民丧生的袭击，促使美国空袭了叙利亚的一个军事基地。在同一场合，蒂勒森清楚地表明，对于美国情报机构关于俄罗斯曾寻求干扰2016年美国大选的报告，他是相信的。而特朗普一直称之为“假新闻”，说继续开展调查是浪费纳税人的钱。
Clearly the State Department wanted no chance of a repeat of those kinds of inquiries.
显然，国务院并不想给媒体就这类问题再度提问的机会。
It seems doubtful that the election hacking, or the sanctions President Barack Obama imposed on Russia in the last days of his administration, will be topics of conversation at the Oval Office meeting. That seems too fraught for the White House, at a time when federal investigators are still examining whether Mr. Trump’s former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, made any promises to reverse the sanctions in a telephone conversation in late December with the Russian ambassador to the United States, Sergey I. Kislyak.
针对大选的黑客行为或贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)临卸任时对俄罗斯实施的制裁等话题，似乎不大可能出现在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)内的会晤中。这样的话题对白宫来说似乎太过棘手，因为联邦调查人员目前仍在调查，特朗普的前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)去年9月末与俄罗斯驻美国大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)通电话时，是否曾承诺要撤销制裁。
But the issue will certainly hang over the meeting. Many outside analysts, and some administration officials, say that it is now nearly impossible for Mr. Trump to lift either the sanctions Mr. Obama put in place or the far more powerful sanctions imposed after the Russian seizure of Crimea. Mr. Tillerson said in Moscow that those sanctions would remain as long as Russia did not reverse its actions, and the new senior director for Russia on the National Security Council, Fiona Hill, has been among the most vociferous critics of Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president.
但此事肯定会让这场会晤蒙上阴影。很多外部分析人士以及一些政府官员称，现在特朗普显然既不能解除奥巴马卸任前推出的制裁措施，也不能解除俄罗斯在把克里米亚收入囊中后受到的严厉得多的制裁。蒂勒森在莫斯科曾表示，如果俄罗斯不改弦易辙，这些制裁就不会被解除；国家安全委员会(National Security Council)新任俄罗斯事务高级主管菲奥娜·希尔(Fiona Hill)，则是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)最激烈的批评者之一。
But Mr. Lavrov and Mr. Trump are clearly trying to organize a first meeting between the two presidents, very likely to come on the edges of a summit meeting this summer. And the United States will have to decide whether to embrace a Russian plan for safe zones in Syria, something that Mr. Trump endorsed in the campaign but that the Pentagon has largely rejected because it could lead to more American involvement on the ground in the civil war.
但拉夫罗夫和特朗普显然正试图安排两国总统的首次会晤——极有可能是在今年夏天一场峰会的边会上。此外，美国将不得不决定，是否接纳俄罗斯关于在叙利亚建安全区的计划——特朗普在竞选期间曾有类似主张，但五角大楼基本对该计划持拒斥态度，因为它可能导致美国进一步陷入叙利亚内战的泥潭。