At Jean-Georges, a three-star Michelin restaurant on the first floor of his namesake hotel in New York, Donald J. Trump took time out of his Tuesday schedule to share a four-course meal with Mitt Romney and Reince Priebus, his soon-to-be White House chief of staff.
米其林三星餐厅让-乔治(Jean-Georges)位于纽约同名酒店的一楼，本周二，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)抽时间和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)以及未来的白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)在那里吃了一顿四道菜的晚餐。
Rain was falling outside. Young garlic soup and frog legs were on the menu. In other words, it was the perfect occasion for a photo op.
外面下着雨，他们吃着青蒜汤和青蛙腿。换句话说，这是一个完美的拍照机会。
There were plenty of pictures taken of this meeting, but one stood out in particular. It cut Mr. Priebus out of the frame. It showed Mr. Trump leaning forward over his food — perhaps the soup, with an errant frog leg inching its way to the top of the bowl? — with a sly smile.
这次会面被拍下了很多照片，但有一张特别引人瞩目。照片里没有普利巴斯。特朗普面带狡猾的微笑，朝着他的食物微微前倾——也许是汤，一条任性的青蛙腿露了出来。
And then there was Mr. Romney.
旁边是罗姆尼。
The former Massachusetts governor, who has been mentioned as possible secretary of state in the Trump administration, was photographed as he turned, his chin leaning into the crook of his neck, and gazed with a furrowed brow into the camera. On social media, viewers — many of them journalists, authors, denizens of Hollywood and liberals for the most part — saw what they thought to be a pained expression.
罗姆尼是前马萨诸塞州州长，据说可能会成为特朗普政府的国务卿，照片中的他扭过身，下巴内缩，皱着眉凝视着相机。在社交媒体上，看到照片的人——很多是记者、作家、好莱坞人和自由派人士——觉得这是一种痛苦的表情。
Of course, there were more important things happening on Tuesday:
当然，周二还有更重要的事情在发生：
— Steven Mnuchin, a financier with connections to Wall Street and Hollywood, was reported to have been tapped for Treasury Secretary. Mr. Mnuchin got his start at Goldman Sachs, a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s ire on the campaign trail.
——在华尔街和好莱坞拥有人脉的金融人士史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)据说会被任命为财政部长。努钦出身于高盛(Goldman Sachs)，而特朗普在竞选活动中常常怒斥高盛。
— Carrier, a large air-conditioning company based in Indianapolis, said that it would keep about 1,000 jobs in the state after having prepared to move about 2,000 jobs to Mexico. The company is said to be receiving economic incentives from Indiana to stay.
——位于印第安纳波利斯的大型空调公司开利(Carrier)表示，本来准备将大约2000个工作岗位转移到墨西哥，现在决定在该州保留大约1000个工作岗位。据说该公司从印第安纳获得了留在那里的经济激励。
— Also, Mr. Trump set off a barrage of coverage after he said in an early morning tweet that people who burned the United States flag should perhaps be jailed or lose their citizenship.
——此外，特朗普清晨发Twitter消息说，烧毁美国国旗的人应该关牢房或失去公民身份，这引发了一大堆报道。
In this era, a lot can happen in one day.
在这个时代，一天之内可以发生很多事情。
We’ll never really know what caused this uncomfortable-looking glimpse, of course. For all we know, it was a bad scallop. Maybe Mr. Romney doesn’t enjoy frog legs. And again, the photo, by Drew Angerer, was one of several taken.
当然，我们永远不会知道究竟是什么原因导致了罗姆尼这种不舒服的表情。说不定是一个坏了的扇贝。也许罗姆尼不喜欢青蛙腿。而且，德鲁·安格尔(Drew Angerer)拍的这张照片也只是好几张中的一张。
But Mr. Romney’s statement to reporters after the meeting seemed to reinforce a conclusion that many drew about this frozen instant of time.
但是在这次见面后，罗姆尼对记者做的声明似乎支持了一个结论，很多人看了这张凝固那一刻的照片都得出了这个结论。
“He did something I tried to do and was unsuccessful in accomplishing: He won the general election,” Mr. Romney said after the meal. “He continues with a message of inclusion and bringing people together, and his vision is something which obviously connected with the American people in a very powerful way.”
“他做了一些我想做却没有成功的事情：他赢得了大选，”罗姆尼在饭后说。“他继续发出一个包容性的、团结性的讯息，他的愿景显然以一种非常有力的方式与美国人民息息相关。”
It was a departure from a statement made by Mr. Romney nine months ago, when he tried to draw support away from Mr. Trump in a speech, saying that the candidate was “playing the American public for suckers.” Mr. Romney targeted Mr. Trump on his vague economic policies, his bankruptcies, his admiration of Vladimir Putin, and his marital infidelity.
这和罗姆尼九个月前的一个声明大相径庭，当时他在一个演讲中试图打消人们支持特朗普的念头。他说，作为总统候选人，特朗普“把美国公众当傻瓜耍”。罗姆尼当时的攻击点是特朗普模糊的经济政策，他的破产经历，他对普京的钦佩，以及他对婚姻的不忠。
He also invited the public to watch how Mr. Trump responded to his speech.
他还建议公众观察特朗普如何回应他的演讲。
“Will he talk about our policy differences?” Mr. Romney asked. “Or will he attack me with every imaginable low-road insult? This may tell you what you need to know about his temperament, his stability and his suitability to be president.”
“他会谈我们的政策差异吗？”罗姆尼问道。“还是说他会用各种卑鄙的侮辱来攻击我？这可能会让你看到他的气质、他的稳定性和他是否适合当总统。”
Mr. Trump quickly returned fire during a campaign rally in Maine, where he called Mr. Romney “irrelevant” and a “failed candidate.” Mr. Trump’s supporters booed and cheered.
特朗普在缅因州举行的一次竞选集会上迅速做出反击，说罗姆尼“无足轻重”，是“失败的候选人”。特朗普的支持者发出了嘘声和欢呼声。
“He failed badly,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Romney. “That was a race, I have to say folks, that should have been won. That was a race that absolutely should have been won, and I don’t know what happened to him.”
“他败得很惨，”特朗普说罗姆尼。“我不得不说，那场竞争本来应该赢的。绝对应该赢。我不知道他发生了什么事。”
Mr. Trump also described how Mr. Romney had begged for his endorsement in that race. “I could have said, ‘Mitt, drop to your knees.’ He would’ve dropped to his knees.”
特朗普还描述了罗姆尼如何在那场大选中恳求他的认可。“我可以说‘米特，跪下来’，他就会跪下来。”
Whatever happens with Mr. Romney’s continuing public job interview, the Jean-Georges photo op was one of the stranger turns in the aftermath of the election. Already, articles listing all the critical things Mr. Romney and Mr. Trump have said about each other had become something of a genre. There had been calls for a public apology from Mr. Romney. And Mr. Trump’s inner circle was seemingly in open battle over the very idea of him joining the team.
不管罗姆尼的职位面试会怎么样，让-乔治餐厅拍摄的这张照片都是大选后的奇怪转变之一。列出罗姆尼和特朗普之间的各种互喷已经成为了一种体裁。有人呼吁罗姆尼公开道歉。而特朗普的小圈子对于是否让罗姆尼加入团队似乎也存在公开的矛盾。
It all brings to mind the internet trope, drawn from an old Nationwide Insurance ad: life comes at you fast.
这不免让人想起网上的一句俗话，它来自于全美互惠保险(Nationwide Insurance)以前的一则广告：这世界变化太快。
Try not to spill your soup.
汤别撒了。