FERGUSON, Mo. — Michael Brown, the unarmed black teenager who was killed by a police officer, sparking protests around the nation, was shot at least six times, including twice in the head, a preliminary private autopsy performed on Sunday found.
密苏里州弗格森——黑人少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的初步尸检认为，这个手无寸铁的男孩曾被警察开枪击中六枪，其中头部中两弹。布朗的死激起了全国抗议。
One of the bullets entered the top of Mr. Brown’s skull, suggesting his head was bent forward when it struck him and caused a fatal injury, according to Dr. Michael M. Baden, the former chief medical examiner for the City of New York, who flew to Missouri on Sunday at the family’s request to conduct the separate autopsy. It was likely the last of bullets to hit him, he said.
根据前纽约市法医迈克尔·贝登博士(Dr. Michael M. Baden)的调查，其中一颗子弹时从颅骨顶部打进的，说明他在中弹是头部前倾。这是致命的一枪。贝登应死者家属的请求，周日飞抵密苏里，进行了这次尸检。他说，打进头骨的子弹可能是击中布朗的最后一发。
Mr. Brown, 18, was also shot four times in the right arm, he said, adding that all the bullets were fired into his front.
贝登还说，18岁的布朗右臂还中了四枪，而且所有六枪都是正面中弹。
The bullets did not appear to have been shot from very close range because no gunpowder was present on his body. However, that determination could change if it turns out that there is gunshot residue on Mr. Brown’s clothing, to which Dr. Baden did not have access.
这些子弹似乎不是近距离发射的，因为尸体上没有火药的痕迹。但如果事实证明布朗的衣服上有火药残留，这个结论也可能被修改。而贝登未能接触到死者的衣服。
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Sunday that the Justice Department would conduct its own autopsy, in addition to the one performed by local officials and this private one because, a department spokesman said, of “the extraordinary circumstances involved in this case and at the request of the Brown family.”
司法部长小埃里克·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)周日说，除了当地政府的尸检和这次独立尸检，司法部也将进行自己的尸检，因为按照一位司法部发言人的话说，“本案情况特殊，这也是布朗家属的要求。”
The preliminary autopsy results are the first time that some of the critical information resulting in Mr. Brown’s death has been made public. Thousands of protesters demanding information and justice for what was widely viewed as a reckless shooting took to the streets here in rallies that ranged from peaceful to violent.
初步尸检结果的公布，是关于布朗死因的关键信息第一次向大众披露。数千名示威者要求信息披露和讨回公道，因为此事被普遍视为是一次草率的枪击事件，示威者聚集在街头，游行从和平示威变成了暴力骚乱。
Mr. Brown died Aug. 9 in a confrontation with a police officer here in this suburb of St. Louis. The police department has come under harsh criticism for refusing to clarify the circumstances of the shooting and for responding to protests with military-style operational gear.
布朗死于8月9日在圣路易斯郊区与一名警察的冲突对峙。当地警察局由于拒绝澄清枪击的当时的情况，并用军用装备应对示威者，因此受到了强烈批评。
“People have been asking: How many times was he shot? This information could have been released on Day 1,” Dr. Baden said in an interview after performing the autopsy. “They don’t do that, even as feelings built up among the citizenry that there was a cover-up. We are hoping to alleviate that.”
“人们一直在问：他中了几枪？这些信息本可以在事发第一天公布，”贝登在尸检结束后的一次采访中说。“他们不那么做，尽管市民们已经越来越觉得此事肯定有人在掩盖真相了。我们希望能缓解这一势头。”
Dr. Baden said that while Mr. Brown was shot at least six times, only three bullets were recovered from his body. But he has not yet seen the X-rays showing where the bullets were found, which would clarify the autopsy results. Nor has he had access to witness and police statements.
贝登说，尽管布朗至少被击中六枪，但只在他身体内找到了三枚子弹。但他目前还没有看过子弹被找到部位的X光片，X光能进一步澄清验尸结果。他也无法接触到目击者和警方记录。
Dr. Baden provided a diagram of the entry wounds, and noted that the six shots produced numerous wounds. Some of the bullets entered and exited several times, including one that left at least five different wounds.
贝登提供了中弹伤口的示意图，还提到六次枪击造成了很多伤口。部分子弹进入并穿出身体多次，其中一枚子弹造成了至少五个不同的伤口。