PRINCETON, N.J. — BANGLADESH is in fresh turmoil. On Sept. 17, its Supreme Court decided that Abdul Quader Mollah, a leading Islamist politician, should be hanged for war crimes committed during the country’s 1971 war of independence from Pakistan. When he was given a life sentence by a Bangladeshi war-crimes tribunal back in February, tens of thousands of Bangladeshis took to the streets demanding his execution. Since then, more than a hundred people have died in protests and counterprotests.
新泽西州普林斯顿——孟加拉国又陷入了新的混乱。9月17日，最高法院裁定，知名伊斯兰政界人士阿卜杜勒·卡迪尔·莫拉(Abdul Quader Mollah)在该国1971年脱离巴基斯坦的独立战争中犯有战争罪，应被处以绞刑。2月，当他被孟加拉国一家审理战争罪的法庭判处无期徒刑时，数万名孟加拉国人走上街头，要求处死他。自那之后已有一百多人在抗议和反击抗议的活动中丧生。
This may sound remote or irrelevant to Americans, but the unrest has much to do with the United States. Some of Bangladesh’s current problems stem from its traumatic birth in 1971 — when President Richard M. Nixon and Henry A. Kissinger, his national security adviser, vigorously supported the killers and tormentors of a generation of Bangladeshis.
美国人可能会觉得这听上去可能很遥远，或很不相干，但这次动荡和美国有很大关系。孟加拉国目前面临的部分问题源于其1971年成立时留下的创伤。当时，理查德·M·尼克松总统(Richard M. Nixon)和他任内的国务卿亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)对杀害和折磨了一代孟加拉人的那一方给予了大力支持。
From the partition of the Indian subcontinent in 1947, Pakistan was created as a unified Muslim nation with a bizarrely divided geography: dominant West Pakistan (now simply Pakistan) was separated from downtrodden East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) by a thousand miles of hostile India. Pakistanis joked that their bifurcated country was united by Islam and Pakistan International Airlines. This strange arrangement held until 1970, when Bengali nationalists in East Pakistan triumphed in nationwide elections. The ruling military government, based in West Pakistan, feared losing its grip.
因为1947年的印巴分治，巴基斯坦成立时虽是一个统一的穆斯林国家，但领土却被奇怪地分隔开了：敌对国家印度绵延一千英里（约合1600公里）的领土隔开了据统治地位的西巴基斯坦（也就是现在的巴基斯坦）和受压迫的东巴基斯坦（现在的孟加拉国）。巴基斯坦人开玩笑说，他们被一分为二的国家是用伊斯兰教法和巴基斯坦国际航空公司(Pakistan International Airlines)联系起来的。这种奇怪的安排一直持续到1970年，东巴基斯坦的孟加拉民族主义者在全国大选中获胜。总部位于西巴基斯坦的执政军政府担心失去对东巴基斯坦的控制。
So on March 25, 1971, the Pakistani Army launched a devastating crackdown on the rebellious Bengalis in the east. Midway through the bloodshed, both the C.I.A. and the State Department conservatively estimated that about 200,000 people had died (the Bangladeshi government figure is much higher, at three million). As many as 10 million Bengali refugees fled across the border into India, where they died in droves in wretched refugee camps.
因此，1971年3月25日，巴基斯坦陆军对东巴基斯坦反抗统治的孟加拉人发动了毁灭性的镇压。杀戮进行到一半时，中央情报局(CIA)和国务院(State Department)均保守估计，约20万人丧生（孟加拉国政府的数字则远高于此，为300万）。多达1000万孟加拉难民越过边境，逃往印度，成批难民死在了该国条件恶劣的难民营里。
As recently declassified documents and White House tapes show, Nixon and Kissinger stood stoutly behind Pakistan’s generals, supporting the murderous regime at many of the most crucial moments. This largely overlooked horror ranks among the darkest chapters in the entire cold war.
正如前不久解密的文件和白宫磁带所显示的那样，尼克松和基辛格坚定地站在了巴基斯坦军方将领的背后，在许多极其关键的时刻支持了那个凶残的政权。这段恐怖的历史基本上被忽略了，但它却是整个冷战期间最黑暗的时期之一。
Of course, no country, not even the United States, can prevent massacres everywhere in the world — but this was a close American ally, which prized its warm relationship with the United States and used American weapons and military supplies against its own people.
当然，没有哪个国家能阻止在世界各地发生的屠杀，美国也不例外——但这是美国的亲密盟友，这个国家珍视同美国的友好关系，用美国的武器和军事物资对付自己的人民。
Nixon and Kissinger barely tried to exert leverage over Pakistan’s military government. In the pivotal days before the crackdown began on March 25, they consciously decided not to warn the Pakistani generals against opening fire on their population. They did not press for respecting the election results, nor did they prod the military to cut a power-sharing deal with the Bengali leadership. They did not offer warnings or impose conditions that might have dissuaded the Pakistani junta from atrocities. Nor did they threaten the loss of American military or economic support after the slaughter began.
尼克松和基辛格几乎没有尝试向巴基斯坦军政府施加影响。镇压是3月25日开始的，在此前的关键几天里，他们有意决定不警告巴基斯坦军方领导人不要对自己的人民开火。他们没有向军方施压，要求他们尊重选举结果，也没有鼓励军方同孟加拉领导层达成权力共享协议。他们没有提出警告，也没有开出可能劝阻巴基斯坦军政府施暴的条件。杀戮开始后，他们没有威胁要停止美国的军事和经济支持。
Nixon and Kissinger were not just motivated by dispassionate realpolitik, weighing Pakistan’s help with the secret opening to China or India’s pro-Soviet leanings. The White House tapes capture their emotional rage, going far beyond Nixon’s habitual vulgarity. In the Oval Office, Nixon told Kissinger that the Indians needed “a mass famine.” Kissinger sneered at people who “bleed” for “the dying Bengalis.”
为了打开通往有亲苏倾向的中国或印度的道路，尼克松和基辛格需要巴基斯坦的帮助，但是无情的现实政治并非他们的唯一动机。白宫的磁带记录下了他们情绪愤怒的时刻，言语之粗俗远远超出了尼克松惯常的水平。在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)，尼克松告诉基辛格，印度人需要“一场大饥荒”。基辛格则对那些对“垂死的孟加拉人”表示“痛心”的人报以嘲笑。
They were unmoved by the suffering of Bengalis, despite detailed reporting about the killing from Archer K. Blood, the brave United States consul general in East Pakistan. Nor did Nixon and Kissinger waver when Kenneth B. Keating, a former Republican senator from New York then serving as the American ambassador to India, personally confronted them in the Oval Office about “a matter of genocide” that targeted the Hindu minority among the Bengalis.
尽管勇敢的美国驻东巴基斯坦总领事阿切尔·K·布拉德(Archer K. Blood)详细汇报了杀戮事件，但尼克松和基辛格对孟加拉人的遭遇无动于衷。时任美国驻印度大使、来自纽约州的前共和党参议员肯尼思·B·基廷(Kenneth B. Keating)亲自就以孟加拉人中的印度教徒为目标的“种族灭绝事件”去椭圆形办公室找他们时，他们也没有动摇。
After Mr. Blood’s consulate sent an extraordinary cable formally dissenting from American policy, decrying what it called genocide, Nixon and Kissinger ousted Mr. Blood from his post in East Pakistan. Kissinger privately scorned Mr. Blood as “this maniac”; Nixon called Mr. Keating “a traitor.”
在布拉德领导下的领事馆发了一封特别电报，正式对美国的政策提出异议，谴责了被认为是种族灭绝的屠杀事件，尼克松和基辛格解除了布拉德在东巴基斯坦的职务。基辛格私下里鄙视地称布拉德“这个疯子”；而尼克松则称基廷“卖国贼”。
India was secretly sponsoring a Bengali insurgency in East Pakistan, and the violence ended only after India and Pakistan went to war in December 1971, with the Indian Army swiftly securing an independent Bangladesh. Economic development and political progress were always going to be difficult there. But Bangladesh’s situation was made tougher by the devastation: lost lives, wrecked infrastructure and radicalized politics.
在东巴基斯坦，印度在暗中资助一场孟加拉人的暴动。暴力活动一直持续到印度和巴基斯坦1971年12月开战后才停止，印度陆军此后很快便建立起一个独立的孟加拉国。在那里，经济发展和政治进步一直很艰难。但这段毁灭性的经历让孟加拉国的情况变得更糟：人员伤亡、基础设施受损、政治变得激进。
Bangladesh, despite its recent economic growth, is a haunted country. Part of the tumult centers on the fate of defendants like Abdul Quader Mollah, who face judgment in a series of national war crimes trials for atrocities committed in 1971 by local collaborators with West Pakistan. These trials are popular, but the court has often failed to meet fair standards of due process. Its proceedings have ensnared members of the largest Islamist political party, Jamaat-e-Islami, which is aligned with the main political rival of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.
尽管最近经济出现了增长，但孟加拉国依然困难重重。骚乱跟阿卜杜勒·卡迪尔·莫拉这样的被告人的命运有一定关系，由于西巴基斯坦在1971年和当地通敌者合作犯下的暴行，这些人接连在国家战争罪审判中受审。这些审判很受欢迎，但法庭的诉讼程序经常达不到公正标准。它的诉讼已经困住了伊斯兰派第一大党伊斯兰大会党(Jamaat-e-Islami)的成员们。而伊斯兰大会党是与孟加拉国总理谢赫·哈西娜(Sheikh Hasina)的主要政治对手结盟的。
It will be up to Bangladeshis to fix their country’s rancorous politics, but their task was made harder from the outset by Nixon and Kissinger’s callousness. The legacy of 1971 still stains the reputation of the United States in India as well. If an apology from Kissinger is too much to expect, Americans ought at least to remember what he and Nixon did in those terrible days.
修复敌意弥漫的政治要靠孟加拉人，但尼克松和基辛格的麻木不仁让他们的任务更加艰难。1971年的遗留问题也影响着美国在印度的声誉。如果说让基辛格道歉是种奢望，那美国人至少也应该铭记他和尼克松在那段可怕的岁月里做了些什么。