NICE, France — A red ambulance, its lights flashing, sped down the road and jerked to a stop. The driver jumped out, asking, “Where are the wounded?”
法国尼斯——一辆闪着灯的红色救护车呼啸而过，猛然停了下来。司机跳下车问，“受伤的在哪？”
“We only have dead here,” replied two men, trying to comfort a young man who was weeping over the body of his mother and imploring Allah to accept her into heaven.
“我们这里只有死的，”两名女子一边回答，一边安慰着一名年轻男子。此刻他在母亲的遗体旁哭泣，恳求真主准她上天堂。
An eerie tableau of death and dying extended along a mile-long stretch of the graceful, crescent-shaped Promenade des Anglais on Thursday night, running from Nice’s airport to the oldest part of the coastal city.
周四晚上，死亡与垂死的恐怖场面，在盎格鲁街上蔓延一英里之长。这是一条优美的弧线形大道，连接了尼斯机场和这座海滨城市最古老的地区。
One moment, there was a great street celebration for France’s Bastille Day holiday — and the next, a truck came barreling through at high speed, leaving a trail of bodies, shock and despair.
此前，这条街上正在举行纪念法国巴士底日的盛大庆典——一辆卡车高速驶过，留下了遍地的尸体，人们陷入震惊与绝望。
The first fatal victim, crushed by the speeding truck on the sidewalk next to Lenval Beach, was a middle-aged Muslim woman. Two of her sons and other family members stood, weeping or frozen in stunned silence, around her body, which was covered in a pale blue tartan blanket.
第一个遇难者是一名中年女性穆斯林，她在勒瓦尔海滩边的人行道上被卡车撞死。她的遗体上盖着一张浅蓝色花格毯子，两个儿子和其他的家人围在一旁，有的在哭泣，有的被惊呆了，一声也不吭。
Nearby there was another victim, an unidentified man sprawled on the sidewalk next to the beach beneath a bloodied sheet.
附近还有一名身份不明的男性遇难者，尸体倒卧在海滩边的人行道上，盖着一张血迹斑斑的床单。
So numerous were the bodies that to protect their dignity, people had covered some of them with tablecloths snatched from the restaurants lining the Promenade des Anglais.
地上到处是尸体，为了死者的尊严，有人不得不到盎格鲁街边的餐馆拿来桌布盖在上面。
It was windy, with a slight, sporadic drizzle, and the celebration of just a few moments earlier was already a distant memory. Crowds had gathered to celebrate Bastille Day, France’s most popular holiday. The woman and the man had been there, with so many others, along the broad seafront promenade, as Nice’s annual fireworks display lit up the night sky.
今天有风，偶尔下一阵小雨，不久前的那场庆典，已经显得很遥远。人们当时聚集在一起欢庆巴士底日这个法国最受欢迎的节日。那两个躺在地上的人，曾经就和许多人一起站在宽敞的滨海大道上，看着夜空中一年一度的烟花表演。
They were all easy prey — or, in the parlance of an era when this kind of killing has become all too common, they were soft targets.
他们都是无力抵抗的猎物。而在这样的杀戮已经司空见惯的今天，或许该用一个术语——他们都是“软目标”。
The evening had been filled with bangs and flashes of light as fireworks displays rolled along France’s southern coast, drawing cheers from delighted families whose main worry for much of the day had been whether rain might force the cancelation of the celebration.
烟花在这处法国南部海岸边鸣响、绽放，引来人群的阵阵欢呼。人们携家带口来到这里，他们此前主要的担心是庆典会不会因下雨取消。
This was not a military base, or a guarded government building. It was simply a crowd celebrating in the street. Like the fans at the Bataclan, gunned down in Paris during a concert; or the newspaper staff of Charlie Hebdo; or the people blown up outside the airport in Turkey.
这里不是军事基地，也不是戒备森严的政府大楼。只不过是一群人在街上过节。就像在巴黎巴塔克兰音乐厅的乐迷，在看演出时被枪杀；或《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的报社员工；或那些在土耳其的机场外被炸死的人们。
This time, all it took was a murderous driver and a massive truck. Witnesses said the truck had entered the Promenade des Anglais from a side street near the Foundation Lenval children’s hospital, turned left and mounted the sidewalk opposite a row of balconied seaside villas and apartment buildings.
而这一次，造成这一切的只是一个凶残的司机和一辆巨大的卡车。目击者称卡车从勒瓦尔基金会(Foundation Lenval)儿童医院附近的一条小巷驶入盎格鲁街，左转上了人行道，路的对面是一排有阳台的海滨别墅和公寓楼。
The driver then drove deeper into the city, mowing down victim after victim as the truck plowed through increasingly dense crowds of revelers.
而后司机向市区方向行驶，冲入越来越密集的狂欢人群，撞倒一个又一个受害者。
Pierre Roux, whose apartment faces the sea, said he had first thought that the truck was simply out of control. But then he noticed that the lights were off and there was no honking.
住在马路对面的皮埃尔·胡(Pierre Roux)说，他一开始以为卡车就是失控了。但是后来他注意到，车没有亮灯，也没有鸣喇叭。
“Nobody in the way stood a chance,” he said.
“路上的人完全没机会逃生，”他说。
He had come out of his apartment early Friday to place a burning candle on the white sheet covering the body, which was unattended.
周五一大早，他从自己的公寓出来，到一具盖着白床单、无人照看的遗体边点了一根蜡烛。
As he spoke, heavily armed police officers sealed off a widening perimeter of the city.
在他接受采访时，荷枪实弹的警察正在扩大市区封锁范围。
Simon Cotteridge, who also lives along the promenade, said he had been watching the fireworks. Just after the display ended, he said, there was “a tremendous thud.”
同样住在盎格鲁街的西蒙·科特里奇(Simon Cotteridge)说，他当时在看烟花。表演刚刚结束，他就听到“一声巨大的闷响”。
He wondered if it had been some sort of coda to the fireworks show, or perhaps an accident. But then, he said, he saw a dozen bodies on the pavement — and a big crowd of people “running and screaming.”
他还以为那是烟花表演的尾声之类的东西，或者是出了什么事故。然而他说，他很快看到人行道上有十几具尸体，而且一大群人在“奔跑、尖叫”。
“It was horrific,” Mr. Cotteridge said.
“场面很恐怖，”科特里奇说。