NEW DELHI — Nepal’s dominant Communist party was routed, the country’s politics swung sharply to the right and India’s influence in Nepal is likely to soar after the first set of results from last week’s election were finalized on Monday.
新德里——在尼泊尔占主导地位的共产主义党派一败涂地，该国政坛急剧右倾，自上周选举的第一组结果于周一落定尘埃之后，印度在尼泊尔的影响力很可能会飙升。
The Nepali Congress, the country’s oldest political party and one that favors close ties with India, won 105 of the 240 directly elected seats. The Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) came in second with 91 seats. Despite their party’s name, the Marxist-Leninists are considered centrists in Nepal. The Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), the dominant Communist party, secured only 26 seats in the direct election, a small fraction of the total it earned in the 2008 elections.
尼泊尔大会党(Nepali Congress)赢得了240个区域直选席位中的105席，该党是尼泊尔最古老的政党，支持和印度保持密切的关系。尼泊尔共产党（联合马列党，Marxist-Leninists）以91席位列第二。该党虽然以马列为名，尼泊尔民众却认为它是中立派政党。主要的共产主义党派尼泊尔联合共产党（United Communist Party of Nepal，毛派）在区域直选中仅保住了26个席位，这只是它在2008年选举中所得席位的一个零头。
The majority of seats in the Constituent Assembly will be determined by proportional votes, and in those preliminary returns the Nepali Congress is again first followed by the Marxist-Leninists, according to the Election Commission of Nepal. Together, the two parties are likely to dominate the new Constituent Assembly.
制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)的大部分席位将由按比例分配的选票决定。据尼泊尔选举委员会(Election Commission of Nepal)统计，初步反馈的结果显示，尼泊尔大会党在这部分投票中再次领先，联合马列党紧随其后。两党很可能共同主导新的制宪会议。
Since a two-thirds majority in the Constituent Assembly is required for a constitution to be adopted, however, the Maoists may still play a critical though reduced role.
然而，由于宪法的通过需要制宪会议中三分之二的席位支持，毛派虽然失势，却依然有可能扮演一个关键的角色。
Since the scope of their loss became clear, the Maoists have said that the elections were riddled with fraud, charges that have been dismissed by independent election observers including former President Jimmy Carter. After a meeting of the group’s leaders on Monday, a Maoist spokesman said that the party would participate in the Constituent Assembly.
自选战失利的程度变得明晰以来，毛派已经提出，选举充斥着舞弊行为，包括美国前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)在内的独立选举观察员则对这种指责不屑一顾。在党内领导人于周一举行会议之后，一名毛派发言人说，该党会加入制宪会议。
“We have put together a couple of conditions to participate in the assembly and will join once they are met,” said Agni Sapkota, the spokesman.
名为阿格尼·萨普科塔(Agni Sapkota)的前述发言人说，“我们已经拟定了加入制宪会议的几个条件，一旦条件得到满足，我们就会加入。”
Those conditions include an investigation into election fraud and the forging of a consensus among political parties about how the most contentious issues facing the assembly will be resolved.
这些条件包括对选举舞弊展开调查，以及各政党就制宪会议解决当前最具争议的问题的方式达成共识。
Nepal’s election commission has ruled out a revote or recount. “We are not in a position to review the vote after all parties were provided chances to review the entire process,” said the chief election commissioner, Neel Kantha Uprety.
尼泊尔选举委员会已经排除了重新表决或重新计票的可能性。首席选举委员尼尔·肯塔·于普勒蒂(Neel Kantha Uprety)说，“鉴于所有政党都得到了监督整个流程的机会，我们没有理由复审投票。”
Lok Raj Baral, executive chairman of the Nepal Center for Contemporary Studies, said the Maoists’ dismal performance shocked everyone. But he predicted that the Maoists would participate in the Constituent Assembly’s constitution-writing process.
尼泊尔当代研究中心(Nepal Center for Contemporary Studies)执行主席洛克·拉杰·巴拉尔(Lok Raj Baral)说，毛派的糟糕表现令所有人震惊不已。但他预测，毛派会参与制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)的制宪进程。
“They have no other option,” Mr. Baral said.
“他们别无选择，”巴拉尔说。
The Maoists fought an insurgency against government troops from 1996 to 2006, joined a peace process and participated in elections in 2008 that they dominated. Many of their fighters joined the national army. Some Maoist leaders took sanctuary in India during the war, but India is unlikely to be as accommodating should the war restart.
1996至2006年间，毛派曾发动对抗政府军的暴乱，后来加入和平进程，并在2008年的选举当中赢得了第一大党的位置。毛派的许多士兵加入了国家军队。那次战争期间，一些毛派领导人曾在印度寻求庇护，但如果再次开战，印度不大可能像上次那么乐于助人。
Counting of the ballots in the proportional vote, in which voters picked a political party, and in which 122 parties are competing for 335 seats, is expected to be completed in two weeks. In another sign of the rightward turn in Nepal’s politics, the royalist Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal, a nonfactor in the previous assembly, is now in fourth place in the preliminary returns of the party balloting.
在决定各党派进入制宪会议的比例的选举中，122个政党争夺335个席位，选民们须从中选出一个政党。此轮选举的计票工作有望在两周内结束。尼泊尔政治右倾的另一个迹象是，保王派尼泊尔民族民主党(Rastriya Prajatantra Party Nepal)无份参与前一届制宪会议，这次却在政党投票的初步结果中名列第四。
More than 70 percent of Nepal’s eligible voters participated in the Nov. 19 vote despite an election boycott and transportation strike by a coalition of 33 parties, including hard-line Maoists.
由包括强硬毛派在内的33个政党组成的联盟曾发起抵制选举和交通行业罢工行动，尽管如此，仍有超过70%的有资格选民参加了11月19日举行的投票。
The new assembly is charged with writing the country’s constitution, a task the previous assembly was unable to complete after it became deadlocked over whether to adopt a parliamentary or presidential system of government, and whether ethnicity or geography should be used to divide the country into states.
新一届制宪会议担负着制定尼泊尔宪法的任务。前一届制宪会议未能完成这一任务，原因是各方在应该采用议会制政府还是总统制政府，以及在进行区域划分时应该以民族还是地理位置为依据的问题上陷入了僵局。