ABUJA, Nigeria — A second kidnapping of schoolgirls in Nigeria’s northeast by Islamist militants put new pressure on the country’s troubled government, which had been hoping to showcase its emergence as Africa’s largest economy this week but instead has been forced to confront its failure to contain a growing insurgency in its north.
尼日利亚阿布贾——伊斯兰主义激进分子又一次在尼日利亚东北部对女学生实施绑架，这为业已十分苦恼的尼日利亚政府带来了更多压力。这周，尼日利亚政府本来希望展示自己作为新崛起的非洲最大经济体的成就，结果却由于无法遏制北部叛乱，只能面对在这方面的失败。
Men suspected of being fighters from the radical group Boko Haram kidnapped 11 more girls in Nigeria’s northeast, local officials said Tuesday, an intensification of its campaign against female education and the Nigerian government since the abduction of hundreds of schoolgirls three weeks ago.
当地官员周二称，一群男子在尼日利亚东北部又绑架了11名女孩，而这群男子疑为极端组织博科圣地(Boko Haram)的武装分子。在三周前数百名女学生遭到绑架之后，此次事件意味着他们反对女性接受教育和反抗尼日利亚政府的运动的扩大。
The spectacle of red-shirted protesters in the streets of the capital, angry at the government for its tepid response to the crisis, put President Goodluck Jonathan under an uncomfortable spotlight as executives from across the world arrived in private jets to attend the Africa meeting of the World Economic Forum, the continent’s answer to Davos.
身穿红色T恤衫的抗议者出现在城市街头，表达着对政府不温不火的应对行动的不满。与此同时，世界各地的企业高管正乘坐着私人飞机抵达这座首都，参加世界经济论坛非洲峰会。这个会议也被称为“非洲达沃斯”，而街头抗议者引发的关注让总统古德勒克·乔纳森(Goodluck Jonathan)如坐针毡。
Authorities here — and particularly the military, itself implicated in numerous massacres of civilians — appear to be floundering in their response to a crisis that social media have transformed into a cause célèbre. The new kidnappings underlined the inability of the Nigerian government to protect civilians from the growing insurgency. Not a single girl has been rescued so far.
尼日利亚当局本身就涉嫌大量屠杀平民，尤其是军方。面对这场已成为社交媒体热议话题的危机，他们的应对似乎力不从心。新的绑架事件突显出，尼日利亚政府无力保护平民不受日益加剧的动荡局势的影响。目前还没有任何女孩被解救出来。
In a video message that surfaced on Monday apparently made by the leader of the Islamist group Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of hundreds of schoolgirls nearly three weeks ago, called them slaves and threatened to “sell them in the market, by Allah.”
周一，在似乎由博科圣地领导人制作的一则视频中，阿布巴卡尔·谢考(Abubakar Shekau)宣布对大约三周前的绑架事件负责。在视频中，他把这些女生称作奴隶，并威胁“以真主的名义，在市场上卖掉她们。”
“Western education should end,” Mr. Shekau said in the 57-minute video, speaking in Hausa and Arabic. “Girls, you should go and get married.” The Islamist leader also warned that he would “give their hands in marriage because they are our slaves. We would marry them out at the age of 9. We would marry them out at the age of 12.”
“西方教育应该结束了，”在长达57分钟的视频中，谢考用豪萨语和阿拉伯语说，“女孩们，你们应该离开学校去结婚。”这名伊斯兰主义领袖还警告，他将“把她们嫁出去，因为她们是我们的奴隶。不管是9岁还是12岁，我们都会把她们嫁出去。”
The video has sharpened the sense of urgency about finding the girls quickly, and has added to the deepening embarrassment of the Nigerian government, even as it tries to present a progressive new face at the forum.
这段视频的出现加剧了迅速找到这些女孩的紧迫感，而且，在尼日利亚政府努力在论坛上呈现出进步的新面貌的当口，这段视频也让其更加尴尬。
In a sign of deepening global concern, on Tuesday the United States offered to provide a team of experts, including military and law enforcement officers, along with hostage negotiators and psychologists, to assist the Nigerians in recovering the girls, an offer that the government here accepted. American officials said “military resources” would not be included, but President Obama weighed in, vowing to “do everything we can.”
周二，美国提出派出一个专家团队，包括军事与执法官员，以及人质谈判专家和心理学专家，以协助尼日利亚找到这些女孩。此举显示出外界对此事的担忧正在加深。尼日利亚政府接受了美国的提议。美国官员表示，协助不会包括“军事资源”，不过，奥巴马总统本人已经介入此事，并誓言将“竭尽所能”。
A viral social media campaign, using the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls, has brought new infamy to Boko Haram, which has been operating in Nigeria for more than a decade. The group’s goal, never clearly enunciated, is to radically undermine the secular Nigerian state.
以#BringBackOurGirls（找回女孩）为标签的社交媒体运动迅速扩大，为博科圣地招致了更多的谴责。博科圣地已在尼日利亚运作超过10年，组织的目标是大幅削弱尼日利亚的世俗政权，虽然这一目标从来没有得到清晰地表达。
But never in a five-year campaign of bombings, civilian massacres and assaults on state schools have the attacks so shaken the government. The heightening concerns have led to daily antigovernment protests, which continued Tuesday with a demonstration outside defense headquarters here. In a sign of the government’s nervousness, several of the protest leaders were briefly arrested Monday.
然而，长达五年的轰炸、平民屠杀和对公立学校的袭击，从未让尼日利亚政府受到如此剧烈的震动。越积越深的担忧导致了日复一日的反政府抗议活动。周二，阿布贾的国防部大楼外爆发了示威活动。周一，几名抗议领袖遭到了短时间的拘捕，这显示出了尼日利亚政府的紧张情绪。
In the latest kidnappings, more girls were taken from their homes late Sunday in the villages of Warabe and Wala, said Hamba Tada, an official in the area. Heavily armed militants descended from surrounding hills, stealing grain and livestock belonging to villagers, forcing the girls ages 12 to 15 into an 18-seater bus, and warning locals not to warn the authorities.
当地官员汉巴·塔达(Hamba Tada)称，在周日晚上发生的最新绑架事件中，又有女孩被从瓦拉比村和瓦拉村的家中掳走。荷枪实弹的激进分子从周围的山上冲下来，抢走了村民的粮食和牲畜，强行把年龄在12到15岁的女孩带上一辆有18个座位的巴士，并且警告当地人不许报警。
Another local official confirmed the new abductions, though the area’s top police official, Lawan Tanko denied they had taken place. “By our record it’s not true,” he said in an interview from Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State.
另一名当地官员证实了这桩新的绑架，不过，该地区的警长拉万·坦科(Lawan Tanko)仍然否认事件的发生。他在博尔诺州的首府迈杜古里接受采访时说，“根据我们的记录，这不是真的。”
In Abuja, limousines ferrying business-suited delegates to the World Economic Forum are flooding the capital and filling its luxury hotels, but public discussion and newspaper headlines here are dominated by little else but the kidnappings. 
阿布贾的街头出现了大量豪华轿车，车上坐着参加世界经济论坛的西装革履的代表，高端酒店也人满为患。不过，公众讨论和报章头条几乎全都是关于绑架事件的消息。
Unicef has reported that the second kidnappings involved at least eight girls who were seized in their homes in Borno to prevent them from attending school. It called the latest abduction “an outrage and a worsening nightmare for the girls themselves, and for the families of the more than 200 girls who have been stolen from their communities in the last several weeks.”
联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)称，第二批绑架至少涉及八名女孩，她们是从博尔诺州的家中被掠走的，目的是不让她们上学。该机构称，最新的绑架事件“令人愤怒，对于这些女孩本人，以及过去几周被从社区掳走的逾200名女童的家人来说，都是一场让人越发痛苦的噩梦。”
Manuel Fontaine, Unicef’s regional director for West and Central Africa, said in a telephone interview that the information was obtained from the agency’s contacts for the area, which has been rived for years by attacks from Boko Haram.
儿基会非洲西部和中部事务负责人曼努埃尔·方坦(Manuel Fontaine)在电话采访中说，相关信息是从该机构在当地的多名联系人那里获得的。这个地区多年以来一直受到博科圣地的袭扰。
In the past, Boko Haram has frequently targeted schools, which it sees as symbols of the secular government’s overreach. Male students have been slaughtered, while the female students have been let go after admonitions to return to their families, abandon their studies and get married. The latest kidnappings appear to represent a hardening of the militants’ line, though not a wholesale departure from it.
过去，博科圣地频繁地以学校为目标。该组织认为，学校是世俗政府触角过长的象征。男学生遭到屠杀，而女学生被训诫要回归家庭，放弃学业去结婚，然后被放走。最近的绑架事件似乎代表着，这群激进分子的路线正趋于强硬，尽管没有彻底偏离。
“This has been going on. It’s been a common practice. They come and attack a place and seize girls. They just have been doing this,” said Pogu Bitrus, a local official in the town where the schoolgirls were taken, Chibok.
在发生绑架事件的奇博克镇，当地官员波古·比特鲁斯(Pogu Bitrus)说，“这种状况一直在持续，是一种常见行径。他们总是对一个地方进行袭击，然后抢走女孩。他们一直都是这么做的。”