NEW DELHI — A powerful earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday near its capital, Katmandu, killing more than 2,000 people, flattening sections of the city’s historic center and trapping dozens of sightseers in a 200-foot watchtower that came crashing down into a pile of bricks.
新德里——周六，尼泊尔首都加德满都附近发生大地震，造成超过2000人死亡，这座城市历史悠久的中心城区部分被夷为平地，另有数十名观光者被困在了一个200英尺高（约合61米）的瞭望塔里，该塔在地震发生后崩塌，只剩下一堆瓦砾。
Officials in Nepal put the preliminary number of deaths at 2,200, nearly all of them in Katmandu and the surrounding valley, with more than 5,800 people injured. But the quake touched a vast swath of the subcontinent. It set off avalanches around Mount Everest, where several climbers were reported to have died. At least 34 deaths occurred in northern India. Buildings swayed in Tibet and Bangladesh.
最新确定的死亡人数超过2200人，几乎所有人都在加德满都和周围的山谷里，受伤人数约为5800人。但是，此次地震触动了这片次大陆的广阔地区，在珠穆朗玛峰周围引发了雪崩；据报道，已有数名珠峰登山者死亡。印度北部至少有34人死亡。西藏和孟加拉国的建筑物发生摇晃。
The earthquake, with an estimated magnitude of 7.8, struck shortly before noon, and residents of Katmandu ran into the streets and other open spaces as buildings fell, throwing up clouds of dust. Wide cracks opened on paved streets and in the walls of city buildings. Motorcycles tipped over on their sides and slid off the edge of a highway.
此次地震据估计有7.8级，发生在中午之前不久；建筑物坍塌扬起漫天尘土，加德满都居民纷纷跑到街道和其他开放空间。街道和建筑物的墙壁都裂开了宽宽的缝隙。摩托车翻倒在地，从一条高速公路的边缘滑落。
Though many have worried about the stability of the concrete high-rises that have been hastily erected in Katmandu, the most terrible damage on Saturday was to the oldest part of the city, which is studded with temples and palaces made of wood and unmortared brick.
尽管许多人都对加德满都匆忙建起的混凝土高层建筑的稳定性感到担心，但是周六受损最严重的是加德满都最古老的区域，这些地方分布着许多用木材和未用砂浆黏合的砖块建成的寺庙和宫殿。
Four of the area’s seven Unesco World Heritage sites were severely damaged in the earthquake: Bhaktapur Durbar Square, a temple complex built in the shape of a conch shell; Patan Durbar Square, which dates to the third century; Basantapur Durbar Square, which was the residence of Nepal’s royal family until the 19th century; and the Boudhanath Stupa, one of the oldest Buddhist monuments in the Himalayas.
在这些区域内有七个被联合国教科文组织列为世界文化遗产的景点，其中四个在地震中严重受损：外观酷似海螺的寺庙建筑巴德岗杜巴广场(Bhaktapur Durbar Square)、可以追溯到公元三世纪的帕坦杜巴广场(Patan Durbar Square)、直到19世纪仍是尼泊尔皇家宅邸的巴山塔布杜巴广场(Basantapur Durbar Square)，以及喜马拉雅山脉最古老的佛教古建筑之一博拿佛塔(Boudhanath Stupa)。
For many, the most breathtaking architectural loss was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, which was built in 1832 on the orders of the queen. The tower had recently reopened to the public, and visitors could ascend a narrow spiral staircase to a viewing platform around 200 feet above the city.
对于很多人来说，最令人震惊的建筑损失是九层的达拉哈拉塔(Dharahara Tower)。此塔于1832年受女王之命修建，最近重新对公众开放，游客可以从一个狭窄的螺旋楼梯攀登而上，抵达一个大约距离地面200英尺的观景平台。
The walls were brick, around one and a half feet thick, and when the earthquake struck they came crashing down.
该塔墙壁由砖块建成，厚度约为1.5英尺；地震发生时墙体崩塌。
The police on Saturday said they had pulled around 60 bodies from the rubble of the tower. Kashish Das Shrestha, a photographer and writer, spent much of the day in the old city, but said he still had trouble grasping that the tower was gone.
警方周六表示已经从比姆森塔的废墟中拖出了约60具遗体。摄影师兼作家卡希什·达斯·什雷斯塔(Kashish Das Shrestha)这些天大部分时间都待在老城，但他说，自己仍然无法接受这座塔已经倒塌的事实。
“I was here yesterday, I was here the day before yesterday and it was there,” he said. “Today it’s just gone. Last night, from my terrace, I was looking at the tower. And today I was at the tower — and there is no tower.”
“我昨天和前天都在这里，塔也在这里，”他说。“现在塔没了。昨天夜里，从我的露台还能看到这座塔。今天我来到这里——塔已经不在了。”
Saturday’s earthquake struck when schools were not in session, which may have reduced the death toll. But there was not yet a full picture of the damage to villages on the mountain ridges around Katmandu, where families live in houses made of mud and thatch.
周六的地震袭来时，学校正在上课，这可能避免了更大程度的伤亡。但目前尚未全面掌握加德满都周围山脊上村庄的损毁情况，而那里的居民都住在泥土和茅草搭建的房子里。
As night fell, aftershocks were still hitting, prompting waves of screaming. Many residents sat in the roads for much of the day, afraid to go back indoors, and many insisted that they would spend the night outside, despite the cold. Thousands camped out at the city’s parade ground. The city’s shops were running short of bottled water, stocks of dry food, and telephone charge cards.
随着夜幕的降临，余震仍不断发生，引发了一阵阵尖叫。许多民众大部分时间都坐在马路上，不敢回到室内，许多人不顾寒冷坚持在户外过夜。数千人在城市的阅兵场上露营。城市的商店里，瓶装水、方便食品和电话充值卡短缺。
Toward evening, hospitals were trying to accommodate a huge influx of patients, some of them with amputated limbs, and were running short of supplies like bandages and trauma kits, said Jamie McGoldrick, resident coordinator with the United Nations Development Program in Nepal. Water supplies, a problem under normal circumstances in this fast-growing city, will almost certainly run short in the coming days, he said. Search and rescue personnel will also face the challenge of reaching villages nearer the earthquake’s epicenter, where damage may be catastrophic.
联合国开发计划署在尼泊尔的驻地协调员杰米·麦戈德里克(Jamie McGoldrick)说，快到傍晚的时候，医院仍在努力接治大量涌入的患者，有些人的胳膊或腿被砸断，绷带和创伤工具包等物资短缺。他说，在这个快速发展的城市，自来水的供应在正常情况下都成问题，未来几天毫无疑问会短缺。搜救人员还面临着如何抵达震中附近村庄的挑战，那里的受损程度可能是灾难性的。
Secretary of State John Kerry said the American ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, had issued a disaster declaration that would allow $1 million in humanitarian assistance to be available immediately. A disaster response team and an urban search and rescue team from the United States Agency for International Development would also be deployed, he said in a statement,
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，美国驻尼泊尔大使彼得·W·伯德(Peter W. Bodde)已经发表了一份灾难声明，将立即提供100万美元（约合620万元人民币）的人道主义援助。他在一份声明中说，美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)也将派遣一支灾难应急团队和一支城市搜救队。