NEW DELHI — Struggling to cope with a crush of climbers and garbage on Mount Everest, Nepal is also considering a proposal that would require every foreign climber to hire a local guide to ascend the country’s highest peaks.
新德里——勉力应对涌上喜马拉雅山的登山者和垃圾的同时，尼泊尔也在考虑一项提议，该提议要求每名外国登山者在攀登该国最高的一些山峰时雇一名当地向导。
The intention is to increase local employment in an industry that is increasingly reliant on foreign guides, officials said on Thursday. The policy could also help avoid the kind of on-mountain disputes that led to a confrontation last year when three professional climbers from abroad told a group of Sherpas that they wanted to climb on their own.
尼泊尔官员周四表示，该提议的目的是改善当地人在这个越来越依赖外国向导的行业里的就业状况。这一政策还可以帮助避免山上的一类争端。去年，这类争端引发了一次冲突，因为来自外国的三名职业登山者告诉一群夏尔巴人，他们想自己登山。
Officials from Nepal plan to present the proposal at a meeting of Himalayan nations, including Pakistan, India and China, which is scheduled to be held in Katmandu, the capital of Nepal, next month. Nepal hopes to persuade its counterparts to adopt similar policies, which would require the employment of local guides by climbers ascending any mountain higher than 8,000 meters, or about 26,250 feet.
包括巴基斯坦、印度和中国在内的喜马拉雅周边国家计划于下月在尼泊尔首都加德满都举行会议，尼泊尔官员计划在这次会议上提出前述提议。尼泊尔希望说服其他与会国家采用类似政策，要求计划攀登8000米以上高峰的登山者雇用当地向导。
“We want to ensure the safety of climbers and generate job opportunities for local guides to boost our economy,” said Madhu Sudan Burlakoti, a joint secretary at Nepal’s tourism ministry.
尼泊尔旅游部联合大臣马杜·苏丹·布拉科蒂(Madhu Sudan Burlakoti)说，“我们想确保登山者的安全，同时为当地向导创造就业机会，借此促进本国经济。”
If adopted, the policy would go into effect for the 2015 climbing season, Mr. Burlakoti said.
布拉科蒂说，如果获得通过，该政策将会在2015年的登山季生效。
Nepal’s government announced on March 3 that it would require every climber returning from the summit of Mount Everest to bring back at least 18 pounds of garbage, the first concerted effort to eliminate the estimated 50 tons of trash that has been left on the mountain over the past six decades. The waste includes empty oxygen bottles, torn tents and discarded food containers.
今年3月3日，尼泊尔政府宣布，将要求每名珠穆朗玛峰登山者从山上带下至少18磅（约合8公斤）重的垃圾。过去六十年里，山上累积了估计达50吨的垃圾，这是当局为清除这些垃圾所展开的首次全面行动。山上的垃圾包括空的氧气罐、破烂的帐篷和人们丢弃的食品容器。
The government also announced that it would lower the fees for foreigners to climb Mount Everest to $10,000 from $25,000.
尼泊尔政府还宣布，将把外国人攀登珠峰的票价从目前的2.5万美元（约合15万元人民币）降到1万美元。
It is unclear whether the measures will improve the climbing experience. In recent years, lines of hundreds of climbers have snaked up Mount Everest, creating a dangerous situation in poor weather. On a single day in 2012, 234 climbers reached the peak, with some unable to stand on Mount Everest’s highest point because of the crush of people.
目前还不清楚，这些措施是否能改善攀登珠峰的体验。近些年，数百名登山者成群结队地绕上珠峰，天气恶劣的时候就会造成危险的局面。仅在2012年的某一天里，就有234名登山者登顶，由于过分拥挤，其中一些人甚至无法在珠峰最高点落脚。