NEW DELHI — In the face of an apparent electoral drubbing, the leader of Nepal’s largest Maoist party demanded a halt to the nation’s vote counting on Thursday because of what he called widespread vote fraud.
新德里——面对一场显而易见的选举惨败，周四，尼泊尔毛派第一大党的领导人要求停止本国大选的计票工作。他宣称，之所以要这样做，是因为普遍存在着选举舞弊行为。
“Serious national and international forces are behind this, and we demand a suspension to vote counting,” said the Maoist leader, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, the head of the United Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist).
“这背后隐藏着令人担忧的国内和国际势力，我们要求停止选举的计票工作，”毛派领袖、尼泊尔联合共产党(United Communist Party of Nepal)主席帕苏巴·卡麦尔·达哈尔(Pushpa Kamal Dahal)说。
Mr. Dahal said that election workers had smashed ballot boxes and accepted false ballots. He called for an independent investigation and warned that his party might rejoin hard-line Maoists and refuse to participate in the Constituent Assembly if his demands were not met.
达哈尔称，选举工作人员在票箱上动了手脚，接受虚假选票。他呼吁进行独立调查，并警告称：如果他的要求得不到满足，他领导的政党有可能重新加入毛派内部的强硬派阵营，还有可能拒绝加入制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)。
“We will not join” the assembly, he declared, as Maoist party members marched outside the party’s headquarters shouting, “We are ready to fight!”
他宣称“我们不会加入”制宪会议之时，其党员正在该党总部外游行，高呼，“我们做好了战斗的准备！”
In a Constituent Assembly with more than 600 members, Mr. Dahal’s party was leading in just 19 constituencies on Thursday, compared with 75 for the Nepali Congress, a right of center party, and 48 for the Unified Marxist-Leninists, according to preliminary results released by the Nepal’s Election Commission.
制宪会议总共有600多个席位。根据尼泊尔选举委员会(Nepal’s Election Commission)公布的初步结果，达哈尔领导的政党仅在19个选区中处于领先地位，相比之下，中右翼的尼泊尔大会党(Nepali Congress)在75个选区中领先，联合马列党(Unified Marxist-Leninists)则在48个选区中领先。
Mr. Dahal’s own attempt to win a Katmandu constituency appeared headed for defeat, as did that of Hisila Yami, a Maoist leader and the wife of a former prime minister. Mr. Dahal also was competing in another constituency, which he appeared likely to win.
达哈尔本人试图拿下加德满都的一个选区，但他的希望看来是要落空了；和他同病相怜的，还有另一位毛派领袖、前总理之妻西斯拉·雅米(Hisila Yami)。达哈尔还参与了另外一个选区的竞选，他在那里似乎有可能胜出。
But Maoist threats to end participation in this Himalayan country’s fledgling democracy could prove troublesome. A bloody 10-year insurgency ended in 2006, and the 2008 elections were considered a triumph in part because of Maoist inclusion.
但毛派扬言退出这个喜马拉雅王国刚刚起步的民主进程，这可能是件麻烦事。2006年，一场为期10年的血腥叛乱划上了句号。2008年的大选之所以被视为一场胜利，在一定程度上是因为毛派的参与。
Neel Kantha Uprety, Nepal’s chief election commissioner, promised to continue the vote count despite Maoist complaints. The first phase of counting is expected to be completed early next week, followed by a two-week process to determine each party’s proportional representation.
尽管毛派提出了异议，但尼泊尔选举委员会首席委员尼尔·根塔·于普勒蒂(Neel Kantha Uprety)承诺，计票将会继续。第一阶段的计票工作有望于下周早些时候完成。随后便会确定每个党派进入制宪会议的比例，这一程序将耗时两周。
“There is no alternative but to accept the people’s verdict,” Mr. Uprety said.
“我们别无选择，唯有接受人民的裁决，”于普勒蒂说。
Independent election observers largely dismissed the Maoists’ assertions of fraud and declared that the elections were well conducted.
大选的独立观察员基本驳回了毛派关于舞弊的论断，并表示，选举工作运行良好。
“I am very disappointed to hear of the U.C.P.N. (Maoist) rejection of the counting process and withdrawal of their party agents,” said former President Jimmy Carter, one of the observers. “I trust that they will respect the will of Nepali voters as expressed on Election Day.”
“听闻尼泊尔联合共产党抵制计票，还要让该党代表退出制宪进程，我非常失望，”观察员之一、美国前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)说。“我相信，他们会尊重尼泊尔选民在选举日表达的意愿。”
Experts had predicted some erosion in the Maoists’ dominant position in the assembly, following claims of corruption and mismanagement while in power. But few foresaw the rout that seems to have taken place. One crucial change may have been efforts by Nepal’s Election Commission to cut down on voter fraud by issuing identification cards with fingerprints and photographs.
专家们曾经预测，毛派在制宪会议里的主导地位将有所动摇，因其当政期间的腐败问题和管理不善招致了国民的不满。但几乎不曾有人预见到这场似乎已成事实的大溃败。一个至关重要的变化或许是，尼泊尔选举委员会通过发放带有指纹和照片的身份证，来打击选举舞弊的尝试。
The new identity demands pared the voter rolls to 12.2 million from 17.6 million and were intended to prevent the kind of obvious irregularities that led former Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai to win his constituency in 2008 with more votes than there were voters.
对身份认证的新要求，让选民名册上的人数从1760万减少降到了1220万。新规旨在避免2008年那种让前总理巴布拉姆·巴特拉伊(Baburam Bhattarai)在自己选区胜出的显而易见的违规行为：该选区的选票数竟然大于选民数。
Mr. Dahal said efforts to combat such irregularities may have cost his party the election.
达哈尔称，打击此类违规行为的一些举措，可能是他领导的政党在大选中失利的原因所在。
“We were aware of the changes in voter rolls, which defeated us,” he said.
“我们注意到了选民登记册上的变化，这些变化击败了我们，”他说。
More than 70 percent of Nepal’s eligible voters participated despite an election boycott and transportation strike by a coalition of 33 parties, including hard-line Maoists.
尽管包括毛派中的强硬派在内的33党联盟强烈抵制大选，并发起了运输业大罢工，但在尼泊尔还是有超过70％的符合资格的选民参加了选举。
The new assembly is charged with writing the country’s constitution, an effort the previous assembly was unable to complete after it became deadlocked over whether to adopt a parliamentary or presidential system of government, and whether ethnicity or geography should be used to divide the country into states.
新选出的制宪会议将负责制定尼泊尔的宪法。前一届制宪会议没能完成这项任务，因为在一些问题上陷入了僵局。比如应该选择议会制政府还是总统制政府；应该以地理特点还是种族因素为依据把尼泊尔划分成不同的联邦州。
It was hoped that the election would help fix Nepal’s political paralysis, which has afflicted its economy and forced many young Nepalese to emigrate.
尼泊尔的政治瘫痪已经对这个国家的经济造成了恶劣的影响，并迫使很多年轻的尼泊尔人移民海外。人们原本希望，此次大选可以帮助治愈这种瘫痪。