KATMANDU, Nepal — Nepal’s former first lady insisted that she was not a crook.
尼泊尔加德满都——尼泊尔的前第一夫人坚称，她不是坏人。
“If you read the newspapers, you’d think I was the most corrupt woman in Nepal,” said Hisila Yami, a Maoist leader and the wife of a former prime minister, Baburam Bhattarai.
“看报纸的话，你会觉得我是全尼泊尔最腐败的女人，”西斯拉·雅米(Hisila Yami)说。她是尼泊尔联合共产党（毛主义）领导人，也是前总理巴布拉姆·巴特拉伊(Baburam Bhattarai)的妻子。
Now that the Maoists have given up bank robbery, kidnapping and extortion, money is harder to come by, she acknowledged as she peeled off bills from a huge wad in her purse to give to campaign workers.
由于尼联共（毛）如今已放弃抢银行和绑架勒索的做法，她承认钱来得不那么容易了。说这话的时候，她从手包里拿出一大叠钞票分给竞选工作人员。
“People gave us money earlier out of fear, but they don’t do that now,” she said with a shrug. “We have to be appealing now. We have to be nice. We can’t afford to antagonize people now.”
“以前人们会因为害怕而给我们钱，现在不会了，”她耸了耸肩说。“现在我们得显得招人喜欢，得平易近人，不能再惹恼民众了。”
So Ms. Yami was squinting at shadows recently as she held campaign gatherings in living rooms darkened by routine power failures. She insisted to those gathered about her feet that all the stories of hidden wealth and secret efforts to undermine her husband when he was in office were just vicious rumors.
因此，雅米在起居室招集竞选集会，这里因为惯常的停电而陷入黑暗，她眯缝着眼睛看着地上的阴影。她对坐在周围的人群强调，关于她有隐秘财富，以及她在丈夫在位期间密谋破坏的种种说法，都不过是恶毒的谣言。
“People think I had a lot of money, cars and homes, but that is not true,” she said, exuding an energetic charisma that lit up the room like a flashlight. “When my husband was prime minister, I tried to help him. But people think I tried to overtake him.”
“有人认为我有很多钱、汽车和别墅，这都不是真的，”她说，举手投足间散发出一种活跃的魅力，仿佛点亮了整个房间。“我的丈夫当总理的时候，我努力协助他。人们却以为，我试图取代他。”
After decades of political upheaval and paralysis, Nepal is scheduled to hold national elections on Nov. 19. Yet, with more than a dozen political parties — including an important Maoist group — boycotting the vote, there is some doubt that they will occur, but top officials say the country has no choice.
经过数十年的政治动荡与瘫痪，尼泊尔定于11月19日举行全国选举。然而，包括一个重要毛泽东主义团体在内的十多个政党抵制此次选举，因此，尼泊尔存在着一种对选举能否进行的怀疑。不过，高层官员表示，尼泊尔别无选择。
A 10-year civil war between the Maoists and the government ended in 2006, but the resulting Constituent Assembly spent four years trying to write a constitution without success, leading to political paralysis. This month’s election is intended to create a second Constituent Assembly to finish the constitution.
毛主义政党与政府的10年内战于2006年结束，但协商成立的制宪会议(Constituent Assembly)花了四年时间也未能起草出宪法，导致国家陷入政治瘫痪。本月的选举就是为了召开第二届制宪会议，以完成宪法。
The election’s most intriguing subplot is among the Maoists, who divided last year over whether war is still an acceptable political strategy. The hard-line faction, widely referred to as Dashist because of a dash in its name (Communist Party of Nepal-Maoist), is boycotting the elections and has called for a 10-day strike beginning Nov. 11.
选举中最吸引人的陪衬情节发生在毛主义者之间。由于对武装斗争是否是一种可以接受的政治策略存在分歧，毛主义政党去年分裂。其中的强硬派由于在名字（尼泊尔共产党–毛主义[Communist Party of Nepal-Maoist]）中有短破折号而被众人称为“破折号党”(Dashist)。该党准备抵制选举，并呼吁从11月11日开始进行为期10天的罢工。
“Our intention is to prevent people from participating in the election,” said Pampha Bhusal, a Dashist politburo member.
“我们的用意是阻止人民参加选举，”破折号党的政治局委员帕姆帕·布萨尔(Pampha Bhusal)说。
Just how far Ms. Bhusal’s group will go to prevent voting is the season’s great mystery. Ms. Bhusal insisted that her party will not resort to violence again, but instead will seek to “convince” people not to vote.
至于布萨尔的团体打算在阻止投票的路上走多远，这已成为选举季的最大谜团。布萨尔坚称，她的党派不会再诉诸暴力，而是会尝试“说服”民众不要投票。
“Everybody’s one concern is security, which is unpredictable,” said Ila Sharma, a commissioner on Nepal’s Election Commission. One candidate has already been killed.
“大家的一个担心就是安全，而这实在难以预料，”尼泊尔选举委员会的委员伊拉·夏尔马(Ila Sharma)说。一名候选人已经遇害。
And then there is Ms. Yami’s party, the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), whose nickname is the Cashist party because of the vast sums of money, cars, houses and property its leaders are rumored to have stolen during the country’s 10-year insurgency. Like rich Communists elsewhere, Cashists have become deeply attached to capitalism. “Even in China, capitalism is thriving in its own way,” Ms. Yami said.
雅米所在的政党叫尼泊尔联合共产党（毛主义）(Unified Communist Party of Nepal[Maoist])，绰号是“现金党”(Cashist)。它得此名号是因为，据说其领导人在10年叛乱期间盗取了大量金钱、汽车、别墅等财产。与世界各地的富有共产党人一样，现金党人与资本主义纠缠不清。“就算是在中国，资本主义也在以其独特的方式茁壮成长，”雅米说。
While Nepal’s main parties disagree fiercely over many things, Ms. Yami said, the embrace of democracy is now widely shared. “Usually the hard-core Communists don’t go for things like bourgeois elections,” she said with a laugh. “We were just in the jungle four or five years ago, and now we’re sounding more democratic than the democrats.”
雅米说，尽管尼泊尔主要政党在许多问题上有很大分歧，但大家普遍支持民主。“通常，坚定的共产主义者不会支持像资产阶级选举这样的事情，”雅米笑着说道。“四五年前，我们还在丛林里。现在，我们听上去比民主派还民主。”
Neel Kantha Uprety, the country’s chief election commissioner, said that vote buying was widely accepted in Nepal, and that eliminating the practice would take time and education. “We do not have a culture of democracy,” Mr. Uprety said.
该国首席选举委员会委员尼尔·根塔·于普勒蒂(Neel Kantha Uprety)说，在尼泊尔花钱买选票是被普遍接受的，要想根除这种行为需要时间和教育的投入。“我们没有民主的文化，”于普勒蒂说。
The principal disagreements among the parties are whether to adopt the American, French or British governance models and how to split the country into states.
各个政党间主要的分歧是，尼泊尔应该采用美国、法国还是英国的治理模式，以及如何在国内划分出不同的州。
The Cashists want an executive presidency similar to that in the United States, although none would admit to copying the United States since, well, they are Maoists. The Marxist-Leninists want a French system with shared power between a president and prime minister, but they, too, denied any hint of foreign influence.
现金党想要采用类似于美国的总统制，尽管没人会承认这是在模仿美国，因为，毕竟，他们是毛主义者。而马克思-列宁主义者则希望采用法国的政权体制，总统和总理分权而治，但他们同样否认这是受到了任何外国影响。
“We don’t call it a French model,” said Pramesh Hamal, a leader of the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist). “But you can explain it yourself as near to the French model.”
“我们不叫它法国模式，”尼泊尔共产党（联合马列）的领导人普拉默什·哈马尔(Pramesh Hamal)说。“但你可以把它解释为很接近法国模式。”
Whether the parties will reconcile these divergent visions in the next Constituent Assembly after failing to do so in the last is anybody’s guess. In multiple interviews, Nepalis expressed a mixture of hope and despair about their future.
每个人都在猜想下次制宪会议时，各政党是否会就不同想法达成一致意见。在上次制宪会议，各党未能达成共识。在多个采访中，尼泊尔人对未来表达了不同看法，有人充满希望，有人则很绝望。
“It’s all a mess,” Sajan Shakya, 22, said as he sat with a friend near one of Nepal’s ancient Hindu temples.
“这里一片混乱，”22岁的萨扬·沙克亚(Sajan Shakya)说，当时他正和朋友坐在尼泊尔一座古老的印度教寺庙旁边。
But Gopal Tamkakar, a 58-year-old merchant, said he was optimistic. “Things will be calmer once they draft a constitution,” he said. “You have to have hope.”
但58岁的商人戈帕尔·塔姆卡卡尔(Gopal Tamkakar)却说自己很乐观。“一旦他们制定了一份宪法草案，形势就会变得更加稳定，”他说。“你必须要有希望。”
International aid organizations have poured into Nepal in recent months, hoping this election may finally serve as a national turning point. On any given day, the traffic circle in front of the Nepal Election Commission is clogged with giant S.U.V.s sporting the emblems of many national aid agencies — including China’s.
近几个月，国际援助组织开始涌进尼泊尔，期待这次选举或许最终将成为该国的转折点。每天，尼泊尔选举委员会前面的交通转盘都会挤满身形庞大的越野车，上面有着许多国家援助机构的标志——其中就包括中国机构。
Many of these organizations have helped resolve significant technical challenges. Quickly retrieving ballot boxes from the highest elevations in the world will be no small feat. And since half of Nepalis are illiterate, paper ballots have become poster-sized collections of symbols: rabbit, butterfly, flashlight and soccer ball, among more than 100 others.
许多这些机构帮助尼泊尔解决了棘手的技术问题。从世界海拔最高的地方迅速收回投票箱可是个不小的壮举。而且由于半数尼泊尔人都不识字，纸质选票变成了海报大小，上面有着一系列符号：兔子、蝴蝶、手电筒、足球，总共有100多种。
The Chinese have not provided technical assistance, “since their own experience with elections is limited,” Mr. Uprety said with only the barest smile. “But we are getting their best wishes along with their logistical support.”
中国人并没有提供技术支持，“因为他们自己的选举经验也很有限，”于普勒蒂似笑非笑地说道。“但他们通过提供后勤支持来祝我们好运。”