BAUCHI, Nigeria — The young man cried out as he was being whipped on the courtroom bench. The bailiff’s leather whip struck him 20 times, and when it was over, the man’s side and back were covered with bruises.
尼日利亚包奇——那名年轻男子在法庭长凳上遭受鞭刑时大声呼喊。法警的皮鞭抽打了他20下，这名男子的侧身和背部布满了累累伤痕。
Still, the large crowd outside was disappointed, the judge recalled: The penalty for gay sex under local Islamic law is death by stoning.
然而，法官回忆说，法庭外的群众仍不满意，因为根据当地的伊斯兰教法，同性恋应被石头砸死。
“He is supposed to be killed,” the judge, Nuhu Idris Mohammed, said, praising his own leniency on judgment day last month at the Shariah court here. The bailiff demonstrated the technique he used: whip at shoulder level, then forcefully down.
法官努胡·易德里斯·穆罕默德(Nuhu Idris Mohammed)上个月在包奇的伊斯兰教法庭进行审判时称赞了自己的宽大仁慈，称“他本应被杀死”。法警也展示了自己的技巧：从肩部开始抽，接着向下猛力鞭打。
The mood is unforgiving in this north Nigeria metropolis, where nine others accused of being gay by the Islamic police are behind the central prison’s high walls. Stones and bottles rained down on them outside the court two weeks ago, residents and officials said; some in the mob even wanted to set the courtroom ablaze, witnesses said.
在这个尼日利亚北部的大城市中，同性恋倾向是不可原谅的。另外九名被伊斯兰宗教警察指控为同性恋的人目前被关在中心监狱。当地居民及官员表示，两周前，法庭外的人向他们投掷石头和瓶子；目击者称，其中一些暴民甚至想放火烧了法庭。
Since Nigeria’s president, Goodluck Jonathan, signed a harsh law criminalizing homosexuality throughout the country last month, arrests of gay people have multiplied, advocates have been forced to go underground, some people fearful of the law have sought asylum overseas and news media demands for a crackdown have flourished.
自尼日利亚总统古德勒克·乔纳森(Goodluck Jonathan)上月签署并在全国推行一项严酷的法律，将同性恋当做罪犯对待以来，被捕的同性恋人数增加了数倍，支持者被迫转入地下，一些惧怕该法律的人已经出国寻求庇护，新闻媒体也纷纷要求进行打压。
Gay sex has been illegal in Nigeria since British colonial rule, but convictions were rare in the south and only occasional in the mostly Muslim north. The new law bans same-sex marriage and goes significantly further, prescribing 10 years in prison for those who “directly or indirectly” make a “public show” of same-sex relationships. It also punishes anyone who participates in gay clubs and organizations, or who simply supports them, leading to broad international criticism of the sweep of the law.
自英国殖民统治开始，同性性行为在尼日利亚就一直属于非法行为，但在南部地区，极少有人被定罪，在穆斯林占多数的北部地区，也只是偶尔出现被定罪的情况。新法律不仅禁止同性婚姻，而且还更进一步，要求将“直接或间接”地“公开展示”同性恋关系的人判处10年监禁。该法律还要求处罚参加同性恋俱乐部和社团的人，并惩处同性恋的支持者。国际社会因此对该项法律的广泛影响提出了批评。
“This draconian new law makes an already-bad situation much worse,” the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, said in a statement. “It purports to ban same-sex marriage ceremonies but in reality does much more,” she added. “Rarely have I seen a piece of legislation that in so few paragraphs directly violates so many basic, universal human rights.”
“这部严苛的新法律使原本已经非常糟糕的情况变得更糟，”联合国人权事务高级专员纳瓦·皮莱(Navi Pillay)发表声明称。“该法声称禁止举办同性婚礼，但实际上做得更多，”她补充说。“我很少见到哪部法律中，能在这么短的段落里，直接侵犯这么多项基本的、普世的人权。”
Homosexuality is illegal in 38 of 54 African countries, according to Amnesty International, and carries the death penalty in Mauritania, Sudan and Somalia, as well as Shariah-governed northern Nigeria. Recently Uganda’s president declined to sign a bill that carried a life sentence for gays, though he called them sick. In Senegal, where the press regularly “outs” gays, same-sex relations carry a penalty of five years.
据国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)透露，在54个非洲国家中，有38个国家将同性恋视作非法行为，在毛里塔尼亚、苏丹、索马里，以及根据伊斯兰教法治理的尼日利亚北部，同性恋会被判死刑。最近，乌干达总统拒绝签署一项对同性恋处以无期徒刑的法案，不过他称同性恋属于病态。在塞内加尔，媒体会定期“揭露”同性恋，同性恋会被处以五年监禁。
Rights advocates say they have recorded arrests in multiple Nigerian states, but the country’s north has experienced the toughest crackdown. Mr. Jonathan’s national ban has redoubled the zeal against gay people here and elsewhere, according to officials and residents in Bauchi, where Shariah law prevails and green-uniformed Hisbah, or Islamic police officers, search for what is considered immoral under Islam.
权利倡导人士表示，他们已经记录了尼日利亚多个州中同性恋被捕的情况，但该国北部地区受到的打压最为严重。据包奇的官员及居民透露，乔纳森发布的全国禁令加剧了这里及其他地区的反同情绪。在伊斯兰教法盛行的包奇，身穿绿色制服的伊斯兰教宗教警察(Hisbah)会去搜寻被伊斯兰教视为不道德的行为。
“It’s reawakened interest in communities to ‘sanitize,’ more or less, to talk about ‘moral sanitization,’ ” Dorothy Aken’Ova, executive director of Nigeria’s International Center for Reproductive Health and Sexual Rights, said of the law. “Where it was quiet before, it’s gotten people thinking, ‘Who is behaving in a manner that may be gay?’ It’s driven people into the closet.”
“这或多或少地重新唤起了各个社区对‘净化’的兴趣，人们开始谈论‘道德净化’，”尼日利亚生殖健康与性权利国际中心(International Center for Reproductive Health and Sexual Rights)执行主管多萝西·阿肯奥瓦(Dorothy Aken’Ova)在评价上述法律时说。“在过去没有人议论的地方，这项法律也促使人们开始琢磨，‘谁的行为看起来可能是同性恋呢？’它迫使人们藏到柜子里。”
Officials here in Bauchi say they want to root out, imprison and punish gays. Local lawyers are reluctant to represent them. Bail was refused to the gay people already jailed because it was “in the best interests of the accused,” said the chief prosecutor, Dawood Mohammed. In the streets, furious citizens say they are ready to take the law into their own hands to combat homosexuality.
包奇当地官员表示，他们想要彻底清除同性恋，把他们关起来，惩罚他们。当地律师不愿意为同性恋辩护。同性恋的保释请求被拒绝，用检察长达乌德·穆罕默德(Dawood Mohammed)的话说，因为这“符合被告的最大利益”。街头愤怒的民众则表示他们已准备好自己动手匡扶正义，向同性恋开战。
The prisoners’ only local support comes from two gay activists who slip into and out of the area, not daring to stay overnight. “They started crying when they saw us, begging us to take them out of this place,” said one of the activists, Tahir, 26, after returning from the prison, where he and his friend Bala, 29, had taken the men food. The two activists feared being prosecuted themselves, so they said they were relatives of the prisoners to try to avoid suspicion.
当地唯一支持这些被关押同性恋的人是两名同性恋权益活动人士，他们会悄悄进出这个区域，但不敢在这里过夜。“他们看到我们就会开始哭，恳求我们带他们离开这个地方，”其中一名活动人士、26岁的塔希尔(Tahir)从监狱回来后说。他和他的朋友、29岁的巴拉(Bala)给被关押的同性恋送去了食物。两名活动人士担心被起诉，便称自己是被关押者的亲属以避免引起怀疑。
Most of the prisoners have been abandoned by their families, Tahir said, declining to give his last name for fear of reprisals. They are mostly young men, he said — tailors, students, “just working youths.” One is a married school principal with eight children, four of them adopted.
塔希尔说，大多被关押者已被家人抛弃。由于担心受到报复，塔希尔没有说出自己姓氏。他们中大多数人都是年轻人，塔希尔说——其中有裁缝、学生，“就是一些工作的年轻人。”其中一人是一名学校校长，已经结婚，有八个孩子，其中四个是领养的。
The young man who was whipped has gone into hiding. Inside the prison, the guards mock the gay men, comparing them to “pregnant women,” Bala said.
被鞭打的年轻人已经躲了起来。巴拉说，在监狱内，守卫会嘲笑同性恋，把他们比作“怀孕的女人”。
At a downtown restaurant in Bauchi, under suspicious glances from other patrons, Bala said, “Let us leave this place.” Hurriedly concluding the interview, the two left for a town farther south and not under Shariah law. “We are not safe here,” Bala said.
在包奇市中心一家餐馆接受采访时，其他客人不时向两名活动人士投来怀疑的目光，“我们得离开这儿，”巴拉说。两人匆忙结束了采访，跑到一个不受伊斯兰教法管辖的南部偏远城镇。“我们在这儿不安全，”巴拉说。
Officials and activists here agree that the new law signed by President Jonathan has given added impetus to the country’s anti-gay sentiment, encouraging prosecutors and citizens alike to take action. The law “completely prohibited anything that is gay,” Mr. Mohammed said.
当地官员和活动人士都认为，乔纳森总统签署的新法律进一步加强了该国反同性恋情绪，推动检察官、公民等采取行动。这部法律“完全禁止任何同性恋行为”，穆罕默德说。
The Nigerian news media have been largely supportive of the law — “Are Gay People Similar to Animals?” was the headline on a recent op-ed article in a leading newspaper, The Guardian — and government officials have reacted angrily to criticism from the United States and Britain.
一直以来，尼日利亚媒体基本上支持该法律——主要报纸尼日利亚《卫报》(The Guardian)最近刊登了一篇评论文章，题目是《同性恋和动物类似吗？》(Are Gay People Similar to Animals?)——政府官员则对来自美国和英国的批评进行了愤怒回应。
The acting foreign affairs minister, Viola Onwuliri, recently praised the law as “democracy in action,” and suggested that Western critics were hypocrites to promote democracy and then complain about a law that the populace supports. In a Pew Research Center survey conducted last March, 98 percent of Nigerians said they do not believe society should accept homosexuality.
尼日利亚代理外交部长维奥拉·奥恩乌里日(Viola Onwuliri)近日称赞该法是“民主之举”，并表示西方批评者一边推动民主，一边又批评一个民众支持的法律，十分虚伪。去年3月，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的一项调查表明，98%的尼日利亚人称自己认为社会不应接受同性恋。
“Every culture has what they regard as sacrosanct or important to them, and I don’t believe what our president and lawmakers have done in that respect is contrary to our culture,” former President Olusegun Obasanjo said Thursday in an interview. In 2004, while he was president, he told African bishops that “homosexual practice” was “clearly unbiblical, unnatural and definitely un-African.”
“每个文化都有其认为神圣或重要的东西，我不认为我们的总统和议员在这一点上做出了违背我们文化的事，”尼日利亚前总统奥卢塞贡·奥巴桑乔(Olusegun Obasanjo)周四接受采访时表示。2004年，奥巴桑乔在位时，他对非洲主教表示，“同性恋行为”是“明显违反圣经、违反自然的，绝对不是非洲人能做出来的事”。
For gay Nigerians, the risks of coming out could not be higher. “In the north, you will be killed,” Tahir said. “You will bring total shame to your family.”
对于尼日利亚同性恋来说，出柜的风险非常高。“在北方，你会被杀死，”塔西尔说。“你会给你的整个家族带来巨大耻辱。”