KATHMANDU, Nepal — Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses here because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, officials with Western governments and aid organizations said on Sunday.
尼泊尔加德满都——西方国家政府和救援组织的官员周日称，地震灾民的救援物资正在这里的机场和仓库大量堆积，原因是尼泊尔政府部门的干预。后者坚持要求开展常规的海关检查和其他程序，即使是在目前的紧急状况下。
“The bottleneck was the fact that the bureaucratic procedures were just so heavy,” Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator, said in an interview. “So many layers of government and so many departments involved, so many different line ministries involved. We don’t need goods sitting in Kathmandu warehouses. We don’t need goods sitting at the airport. We need them up in the affected areas.”
“过于繁琐的官僚程序造成了目前的瓶颈，”联合国开发计划署在尼泊尔的驻地协调员杰米·麦戈德里克(Jamie McGoldrick)接受采访时说。“牵扯了太多层级的政府，太多部门，以及太多不同的机构。我们不想让物资堆在加德满都的仓库里，不想让物资放在机场里。我们需要这些物资出现在受灾地区。”
The United States ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and “he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.”
美国驻尼泊尔大使彼得·W·伯德(Peter W. Bodde)说，他已经与尼泊尔总理苏西尔·柯伊拉腊(Sushil Koirala)讨论了这一问题，“他向我保证所有的繁琐程序都会到此为止”。
Also Sunday, three survivors were pulled from rubble in the Sindhupalchok District, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area north of Kathmandu.
也是在周日，三名幸存者被从新图巴尔恰克(Sindhupalchok)的废墟中营救出来。这个县位于加德满都以北，以从事农业为主，此次地震中受灾尤其严重。
Officials of aid organizations and Western governments have been grumbling about the Nepalese government since the earthquake, with a magnitude of 7.8, struck the country on April 25, killing more than 7,000 people. Early complaints said the government had all but disappeared, a criticism that even top officials here acknowledge was fair.
自从7.8级地震侵袭这个国家以来，救援组织和西方政府的官员一直对尼泊尔政府有许多不满。地震导致逾7000人遇难。他们一开始的抱怨是，政府几乎无所作为。对于这一批评，就连该国的高级官员也表示赞同。
“Everyone was panicked, everything was closed, and we all tried to save our own lives,” Purna Bahadur Khadka, joint general secretary of the governing Nepali Congress, said in an interview at the prime minister’s official residence. “And some critics can say there was no proper coordination for the first two days.”
“每个人都很恐慌，所有地方都关了，我们都在试图救自己的命，”执政党尼泊尔大会党(Nepali Congress)的联合总书记布尔纳·巴哈杜尔·克德卡(Purna Bahadur Khadka)在总理官邸接受采访时说。“一些批评人士可以说，头两天的协作都不到位。”
But sometime over the past week, the government revived, Mr. Khadka said. And that is when, Western aid officials say, government officials began insisting that a list of rules must be followed, even for emergency relief supplies.
克德卡说，但是在过去一周的某个时间点，政府重新活跃了起来。西方救援官员称，就是从那个时候，政府官员开始坚持，必须遵循一系列规则，即使对紧急救援物资也应该如此。
Mr. Bodde said it was a problem that the United States intended to help fix, as a huge C-17 transport plane unloaded a UH-17 helicopter and, separately, four Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft flew into Nepal on Sunday to help carry supplies from Kathmandu to devastated rural areas.
伯德称，美国也在试图帮忙解决这个问题，一架巨型C–17运输机运来了一架UH–17直升机，另有四架“鱼鹰”(Osprey)倾转旋翼机于周日飞入尼泊尔，帮忙把物资从加德满都运往受灾严重的农村地区。
“That’s why we’re here today,” Mr. Bodde said as the C-17 rolled to a stop.
伯德在那架C–17运输机即将停止滑行时说，“这就是我们今天来这里的原因。”
But even that help had been delayed, according to Marine Lt. Col Edward Powers, the helicopter pilot.
但是，海军陆战队的直升机飞行员爱德华·鲍尔斯中校(Lt. Col Edward Powers)表示，就连这样的帮助都被拖延了。
“We’ve been sitting on a ramp in Okinawa for the last 72 hours,” waiting for permission to land at Kathmandu, Colonel Powers said at the airport.
鲍尔斯在机场表示，为了等待降落在加德满都的许可，“过去72小时，我们一直待在冲绳停机坪上。”
Minendra Rijal, the minister for information and communication and the government’s official spokesman, denied that the government had slowed any delivery of aid.
负责信息和通讯的部长、政府的官方发言人米南德拉·里贾尔(Minendra Rijal)否认政府延缓了任何援助物资的交付。
“The accusations are false,” Mr. Rijal said in a telephone interview. “It would be better if the U.N. involved itself more in its duties rather than engaging in criticizing the government.”
“这些指责根本子虚乌有，”里贾尔在电话采访中说。“联合国最好能承担更多责任，而不是忙着批评政府。”
Yet Mr. McGoldrick said that delays were occurring not only at the Kathmandu airport but at border crossings with India and even at district headquarters across the country, and Nepalese journalists have quoted customs officials at the Indian border crossings as affirming that relief supplies needed to “go through strict inspections.”
然而，麦戈德里克说，延误不仅发生在加德满都机场，也发生在尼泊尔与印度的边境通道，甚至还发生在全国各县的政府总部。据尼泊尔记者报道，印度边境通道的海关官员曾坚称，救援物资需要“经过严格检查”。
Mr. McGoldrick said that while the Nepalese government had loosened its requirements in the past day, time was essential.
麦戈德里克表示，尽管在过去一天里，尼泊尔政府放松了要求，但时间非常关键。
“Planting season is six weeks away, and if you miss that you’ll need to deliver food aid for another three months,” he said. “The monsoon is coming in eight weeks. So it’s very precarious.”
“距离播种的季节还有六个星期，如果错过了播种季，就需要再多提供三个月的粮食援助，”他说。“季风八个星期后就要来了。所以形势非常危险。”
District officials said in a series of interviews that food and tents had yet to reach some remote villages because of transportation problems, not bureaucracy.
地方官员在一系列采访中说，食品和帐篷还没有运抵一些偏远的村庄，这是因为一些运输问题，不是因为官僚主义。
“The food supply is O.K. in the villages surrounding district headquarters, but we have not yet been able to make any normal supply in remoter parts of the districts,” said Basudev Ghimire, the chief district officer of Dhading District.
“在县城周围的村庄，粮食供应还是不错的，但我们目前无法为更偏远的区域正常地提供物资，”达定县(Dhading)的负责官员巴苏德夫·吉米雷(Basudev Ghimire)说。
Anil Kumar Thakur, the chief district officer of Bhaktapur District, said bureaucratic requirements had prevented most distributions of cash under a plan to compensate families who suffered deaths.
巴德岗县的负责官员阿尼尔·库马尔·塔库尔(Anil Kumar Thakur)说，在一项为遇难者家属发放抚恤金的计划中，官方的规定也导致大部分现金无法发出。