KATHMANDU, Nepal — The Nepal government declared several damaged heritage sites open to the public on Monday, in a bid to recover tourism revenues in the region hit by an earthquake, but United Nations officials worried that the buildings were not entirely ready.
尼泊尔加德满都——周一，尼泊尔政府宣布向公众开放几处在地震中受损的古迹，力图恢复该地区的旅游业收入。但联合国官员担心，这些建筑物还没有完全做好重新开放的准备。
Nepal’s many temples and palaces had been a significant tourist draw for the impoverished country, and many were all but destroyed in the April 25 earthquake, which killed more than 8,700 people.
尼泊尔是个贫困国家，它的很多寺庙和宫殿一直对游客存在巨大的吸引力，但其中很多都在4月25日的地震中损毁。那场地震造成逾8700人罹难。
“World Heritage sites, the treasures of the Nepalese economy, should not remain closed forever,” said Nepal’s tourism secretary, Suresh Man Shrestha, who added that he was hoping to garner visitors for “earthquake disaster education tourism.”
“世界遗产景点是尼泊尔经济的宝库，不应该永远保持关闭，”尼泊尔旅游部长苏雷什·曼·什雷斯塔(Suresh Man Shrestha)说，他希望能吸引游客参加“地震灾害教育游”。
More than 700 monuments were damaged in the quake, and Mr. Shrestha said the costs of reconstruction would run into the tens of millions of dollars. The reopened monuments include the Durbar Square complexes in Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan, as well as Swayambhunath, a shrine on top of a hill at the northwestern edge of Kathmandu.
逾700处古迹在地震中受损，什雷斯塔说重建成本将达到数千万美元。重开的古迹包括加德满都、巴德岗、帕坦的杜巴广场，以及位于加德满都西北边缘一座山顶上的斯瓦扬布纳特寺。
“Now, Nepal is safe,” said Kripasur Sherpa, Nepal’s minister for culture, tourism and civil aviation, in televised comments at the reopening of the Durbar Square in Bhaktapur on Monday.
“现在尼泊尔很安全，”对于重开巴德岗杜巴广场，尼泊尔文化、旅游和民航部长克里帕苏·夏尔巴(Kripasur Sherpa)本周一在电视上发表评论时说。
Christian Manhart, the head of Unesco’s Nepal office in Kathmandu, said Monday that the organization had urged the government to delay the reopening of the sites, as he believed that two of them were still either unsafe or vulnerable to theft because the rubble from the earthquake was not yet cleared.
联合国教科文组织驻加德满都办事处负责人克里斯蒂安·曼哈特(Christian Manhart)周一表示，该组织敦促政府推迟重开时间，因为他认为其中两处不是仍不安全，就是因为地震废墟的瓦砾尚未清理，因而容易遭窃。
“At Kathmandu Durbar Square there is the huge palace museum — one very big building which is totally shaky,” he said. “The walls are disconnected from one another so this big wall can fall down at any moment.”
“加德满都杜巴广场上有巨大的王宫博物馆，这是一座庞大的建筑物，摇摇欲坠，非常危险，”他说。“墙壁之间都断开的，所以随时有可能倒下。”
The country’s Tourism Department said Monday that the government would instate safety measures, including providing helmets to visitors and security at the monuments, and that the museum building at Kathmandu’s Durbar Square would remain closed. However, Mr. Manhart said that even allowing visitors close to it could be dangerous.
尼泊尔旅游部门周一表示，政府将采取安全措施，包括向游客提供头盔，并在古迹处进行戒备，而且加德满都杜巴广场的这些博物馆建筑仍将继续关闭。但曼哈特说，即使让游客接近它也有危险。
Swayambhunath, the hilltop shrine, was both unsafe and vulnerable to looting because uncleared rubble remains, he said.
至于山顶的斯瓦扬布纳特寺，现在既不安全，也容易被人趁乱打劫，因为那里仍然有未清理的废墟瓦砾，他说。
Mr. Manhart said he had written the director general of Nepal’s Archaeology Department, Bhesh Narayan Dahal, two weeks ago to urge him to delay the reopening.
曼哈特说，两周前他已致函尼泊尔考古部门负责人佩希·纳拉扬·达哈尔(Bhesh Narayan Dahal)，敦促他推迟重新开放的时间。
“They say that there is some pressure to reopen those sites so they can request entrance fee, which is badly needed for the rehabilitation of the monuments,” Mr. Manhart said of the letter he received in response.
“他们说自己有压力，需要重新开放这些古迹，以便获得门票收入，因为修缮古迹迫切需要这些钱，”对于收到的回信，曼哈特说。