Hoping to clean a trash-strewn pathway to the world’s highest peak, Nepal’s tourism authority declared Monday that those climbing Mount Everest must return from the trip with an extra 18 pounds of garbage.
为了清除通往世界最高峰的一条道路上的大量垃圾，尼泊尔旅游当局周一宣布，攀登珠穆朗玛峰者必须捡回重18磅（约8公斤）的垃圾。
The rule is the government’s first concerted effort to eliminate an estimated 50 tons of trash that has been left on Mount Everest by climbers over the past six decades. The waste includes empty oxygen bottles, torn tents, discarded food containers and the bodies of climbers who died on the mountain.
过去60年，攀登者在珠峰留下了估计达50吨的垃圾，前述规定是尼泊尔政府为清除垃圾而采取的首个具体措施。这些垃圾包括空氧气瓶、破损的帐篷、废弃的食品容器和葬身珠峰的登山者遗体。
Nepal’s government hopes the new rule will result in the collection of nearly eight tons of waste this year alone.
尼泊尔政府希望，新规定实施之后，仅在今年就可以回收近8吨的垃圾。
Mountaineering associations and former climbers have become increasingly concerned about the growing refuse on Mount Everest that does not degrade because of the frigid temperature. In 2010, a special team of climbers carried more than two tons of trash down from elevations exceeding 24,000 feet. And last year, concerned climbers collectively carried down four tons of trash.
登山协会和前登山运动员都对珠峰垃圾日益增多的情况越来越担心。由于气候寒冷，这些垃圾根本不会降解。2010年，一支特殊的登山队从超过2.4万英尺（约合7.3千米）的高处捡回了两吨多的垃圾。去年，担心垃圾问题的登山者一共捡回了4吨垃圾。
But hundreds of climbers ascend Mount Everest annually. Most are led by guides and have little experience, so they discard trash along the way to save the energy they need to reach the summit or return to base camp alive. Their trash continues to increase, so much so that some climbers have termed Mount Everest the world’s highest garbage dump.
然而，每年都有数百名登山者攀登珠峰。大多数人跟随导游，没有什么经验，因此就一路丢弃垃圾，节省必需的体力，以便爬上顶峰，或是活着回到大本营。他们留下的垃圾不断增加，多得让一些登山者宣称，珠峰是世界上海拔最高的垃圾场。
“From now on, a climber is required to bring down eight kilograms of waste, and that excludes their own empty oxygen bottles and human dung,” said Madhusudhan Burlakoti, joint secretary of Nepal’s tourism ministry.
尼泊尔旅游部联合大臣马德胡苏德汗·布拉科蒂(Madhusudhan Burlakoti)说，“从现在起，按照要求，每一名登山者都必须捡回八公斤垃圾，这还不包括他们自己的空氧气瓶和排泄物。”
Climbers who fail to appear at base camp with the required additional garbage will face stiff penalties that could include a ban on future ascents, Mr. Burlakoti said.
布拉科蒂表示，没有按规定带着额外垃圾回到大本营的登山者将受到严厉处罚，这可能面临攀登禁令。
“We will not compromise on it,” Mr. Burlakoti said. “Defaulters will face serious legal action.”
“在这个问题上，我们不会妥协，”布拉科蒂说，“不遵守规定的人将面临严厉的法律制裁。”