The World Health Organization expressed worry on Wednesday about a second cluster of Ebola virus patients in Nigeria — in the center of its oil industry — because one of the three confirmed victims was a doctor who had treated patients and socialized after he became contagious.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)周三对尼日利亚出现第二起感染埃博拉病毒的聚集性病例表示担忧。这次的病例出现在该国石油产业的中心城市，而担忧的原因在于，三名确诊的病患之一是名医生，而他在具有传染性之后曾治疗病人并参加社交活动。
The doctor, in the southern city of Port Harcourt, died on Aug. 22, and his infection was confirmed five days later. On its website, the W.H.O. said that more than 200 people might be at risk.
这名医生身处南部城市哈科特港，于8月22日死亡，五天后被确诊是感染了埃博拉病毒。世卫组织在其网站上宣布，可能有200多人面临感染风险。
The W.H.O. said this second cluster had indirectly resulted from a quarantine lapse in the first cluster of Ebola cases that hit Lagos, the capital, in July, and was potentially far more serious. Tracing the spread of the disease in Port Harcourt, the statement said, revealed “multiple high-risk opportunities for transmission of the virus to others.”
世卫组织表示，间接导致这第二起聚集性病例的是尼日利亚首都拉各斯7月份出现第一起埃博拉聚集性病例时发生的一次隔离失误，而这一次的问题有可能要严重得多。声明表示，追踪哈科特港的疾病传播状况时发现，存在“多次将病毒传染给他人的高风险机会”。
Ebola has primarily afflicted three countries in West Africa — Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone — where hundreds of people have died in recent weeks in what W.H.O. officials have called the worst outbreak of the disease ever recorded. While the toll in Nigeria has been far more limited, officials are particularly worried about it because it is Africa’s most populous country.
埃博拉病毒目前主要在非洲西部的几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂肆虐，导致这三个国家最近数周里有成百上千人死亡。世卫组织官员称之为有历史记录以来最为严重的埃博拉疫情。尽管尼日利亚的死亡人数要少得多，但它让官员们颇为担忧，因为这里是非洲人口最稠密的国家。
The W.H.O. has been criticized by some other medical advocates for what they call its initial failure to mobilize adequately against Ebola when the outbreak surfaced in West Africa months ago.
世卫组织遭到了其他一些医疗倡导机构的批评。后者认为，几个月前非洲西部冒出埃博拉疫情爆发的苗头时，世卫组织最初未能恰当地进行动员，加以应对。
The Lagos cases were traced to a traveler from Liberia, and Nigerian officials thought they had basically contained the spread. But the health organization’s statement said one person in Lagos escaped a quarantine in early August and sought treatment from a doctor in Port Harcourt, nearly 400 miles away. That doctor became infected and developed symptoms after a few days, was hospitalized on Aug. 16 and died of Ebola less than a week later.
拉各斯的病例可以追溯到一名来自利比里亚的旅客身上。尼日利亚官员本来以为，他们已经基本控制住了疫情的蔓延。不过，世卫组织的声明称，拉各斯有一人在8月初逃脱了隔离，跑去近400英里（约合640公里）外的哈科特港寻求治疗。治疗此人的医生随即感染上了病毒，几天后出现症状，于8月16日入院治疗，不到一周后死于埃博拉。
Even as he developed symptoms, the statement said, the doctor “continued to treat patients at his private clinic, and operated on at least two.” Moreover, the statement said, before he was hospitalized the doctor “had numerous contacts with the community, as relatives and friends visited his home to celebrate the birth of a baby.”
声明中表示，即便是在出现症状后，这名医生仍“继续在他的私人诊所中治疗病患，还至少对两人实施了手术”。此外，文中称，在入院治疗之前，这名医生“已与社群进行了多次接触，因为亲友纷纷前往他的住所庆贺一名婴儿的诞生”。
It said visitors to his hospital room had included members of his church who performed a healing ritual that could have exposed them as well.
声明还说道，前往病房探望他的包括一些教友。这些人进行的祈祷治愈仪式也可能让他们受到病毒侵袭。
The other two confirmed cases in Port Harcourt are the dead doctor’s wife, who is also a doctor, and another patient at the same hospital. The W.H.O. statement said that epidemiologists were monitoring “more than 200 contacts” and that 60 were considered especially vulnerable.
哈科特港的另外两个确诊病例分别为，身亡医生的妻子——她同样是一名医生——以及同一所医院的另一名病人。世卫组织的声明表示，流行病学专家正在监控“逾200名接触者”，其中60人被认为风险尤其高。
It said the Ebola outbreak in Port Harcourt had “the potential to grow larger and spread faster than the one in Lagos.”
文中称，哈科特港的埃博拉疫情“有可能比拉各斯发展得范围更广、扩散得更快”。