DAKAR, Senegal — The violent campaign by the Boko Haram militant group against Nigerian civilians appeared to intensify late on Sunday with two deadly attacks in Jos, a city in central Nigeria, underscoring the challenge the country’s new president faces in trying to suppress the group.
塞内加尔达喀尔——周日晚间，激进组织博科哈拉姆（Boko Haram，旧译“博科圣地”）对尼日利亚平民开展的暴力活动似乎有所加剧，尼日利亚中部城市乔斯发生了两起流血袭击事件。这突显了尼日利亚新总统在努力压制该组织方面面临的挑战。
The attacks killed at least 44 people, and possibly many more. Gunmen and suicide bombers struck a popular restaurant and a mosque, shooting worshipers who had gathered for Quranic readings during Ramadan. The attacks brought the death toll from Boko Haram attacks in the last week to more than 200.
袭击造成至少44人死亡，真实数字还可能高得多。持枪歹徒和自杀式炸弹袭击者攻击了一家热门餐厅和一家清真寺，向斋月期间聚集在一起诵读《古兰经》的礼拜者开枪。这两起事件致使博科哈拉姆上周的袭击行动造成的死亡人数超过了200人。
The carnage in Jos was devastating. There was an explosion at the Yantaya mosque, and worshipers began to flee. Umar Farouk Musa, a spokesman for J.N.I., or Jama’atu Nasril Islam, the country’s main Muslim organization, said that after the blast, “people emerged from nowhere, five of them, holding sophisticated arms, shooting sporadically into the crowd.”
发生在乔斯的是一场毁灭性的屠杀。言塔亚清真寺(Yantaya)发生爆炸，礼拜者开始逃跑。该国最大的穆斯林组织伊斯兰支援会（Jama’atu Nasril Islam，简称JNI)发言人奥马尔·法鲁克·穆萨(Umar Farouk Musa)表示，爆炸发生后，“不知从哪儿冒出来的，有五个人，举着精密武器，不时向人群开枪。”
Mr. Musa said he witnessed the mosque attack. “We saw these people emerging from nowhere, covered with blankets,” he said in a telephone interview from Jos, referring to the gunmen. “Before we knew it, they disappeared into thin air. There were victims beyond what we could count.”
穆萨称，他目睹了清真寺遭袭的全过程。“我们看到一些裹着毯子的人不知从哪儿冒了出来，”他在乔斯接受电话采访时这样描述持枪歹徒。“在我们反应过来之前，他们就消失地无影无踪。受害者多得我们都没法统计。”
Mr. Musa said he had seen “more than 100 dead bodies,” though Nigerian media put the total death toll for the two attacks in Jos at half that figure.
穆萨表示，他看到“100多具尸体”，但尼日利亚媒体报道，乔斯发生的两起袭击事件共造成50多人死亡。
The other attack, at a nearby site opposite the university in Jos, happened a few minutes earlier, when a suicide bomber walked into a restaurant and detonated his charge. Mr. Musa and colleagues arrived on the scene shortly afterward and “counted 15 dead bodies,” he said.
另一起袭击事件就发生在离清真寺不远的乔斯大学对面，两起袭击想个仅有几分钟。一名自杀式炸弹袭击者走入一家餐厅，并引爆炸药。穆萨和同事很快到达现场。他表示，那里“发现了15具尸体”。
There have been deadly attacks in Nigeria almost daily over the last week, including several in villages in the north. Each has generally involved a bombing and indiscriminate shooting into crowds of civilians. A suicide bomber killed six people Sunday at a church in the northeast, and suicide bombers killed many civilians Friday in Maiduguri, the main city of the northeast.
过去一周，尼日利亚几乎每天都会爆发流血袭击，包括北部乡村地区的几起事件。基本上每起事件都会涉及爆炸，以及向平民肆意开火的行为。周日，一名自杀式袭击者在东北部的一家教堂引爆炸弹，造成六人死亡。周五，东北部主要城市迈杜古里发生自杀式爆炸事件，导致很多平民丧生。
The new Nigerian president, Muhammadu Buhari, is a former army general who has vowed to pursue a military campaign against Boko Haram more vigorously than his lackluster predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan. Mr. Buhari has already taken some measures, including moving the campaign’s nerve center to Borno State, where Boko Haram is strongest, and coordinating Nigeria’s efforts more closely with those of its neighbors Niger, Chad and Cameroon.
尼日利亚新总统穆罕默杜·布哈里(Muhammadu Buhari)曾是陆军将领。他发誓要对博科哈拉姆开展军事行动，力度会大于不痛不痒的前任总统古德勒克·乔纳森(Goodlu Jonathan)。布哈里已经采取了一些举措，比如将行动的神经中枢转移到博科哈拉姆势力最强的博尔诺州，并与邻国尼日尔、乍得和喀麦隆开展更为密切的合作。
Analysts say that Boko Haram is responding by stepping up its attacks against civilian targets. “It’s a fallout from the pressure the federal government is mounting against the Boko Haram in the northeast,” said Muhammad Lawal Ishaq, the legal adviser at the central mosque in Jos. “They want to create diversionary tactics by attacking other soft spots,” he said.
分析人士表示，作为回应，博科哈拉姆在加大对平民的攻击。“这是联邦政府对东北部的博科哈拉姆势力不断施压造成的结果，”乔斯大清真寺的法律顾问穆罕默德·拉瓦尔·伊沙克(Muhammad Lawal Ishaq)说。“他们希望通过袭击其他薄弱环节来形成牵制战术。”