MAIDUGURI, Nigeria — The fears have been mounting for weeks: that the girls have been sold, married off, spirited across international borders, and perhaps even killed. Their fate has become the focus of intense international concern, with Michelle Obama holding up a placard appealing for their safe return and governments across the globe pledging to help track them down.
尼日利亚迈杜古里——几周以来，人们的担忧不断加剧：这些女孩已经被卖掉，被迫成婚，被偷偷送出国境，甚或已经被杀。她们的命运引来了强烈的国际关注，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)举起了标语牌，呼吁让她们安全返回家乡，各国政府也纷纷誓称，要帮助寻找她们的下落。
On Monday came the first hint that many of them may still be alive: a video from Boko Haram, the radical Islamist group that claimed responsibility for kidnapping more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls last month, shows scores of girls, covered from head to toe, stone-faced, somewhere in the pervasive semidesert scrub that covers this arid region.
上个月，200多名尼日利亚女学生遭到绑架，伊斯兰主义极端组织博科圣地(Boko Haram)宣称对此事负责。周一出现了表明很多女学生仍然活着的首个迹象：博科圣地公布了一段视频，视频显示了数十名面无表情的女孩，从头到脚都裹着衣物，背景则是该干旱地区常见的半荒漠灌木丛。
After weeks of global concern over the girls’ plight, Boko Haram appears to have seized on the international attention and begun to use the girls as bargaining chips in its war with the Nigerian state.
这些女孩的遭遇引发了持续数周的全球关注，博科圣地组织似乎也借此争取到了国际关注，开始把这些女孩用作与尼日利亚政府的战争中的谈判筹码。
“These girls will not leave our hands until you release our brothers in your prison,” Boko Haram’s leader, Abubakar Shekau, warns in the video
博科圣地组织的头目阿布巴卡尔·谢考(Abubakar Shekau)在视频中警告称，“我们不会放走这些女孩，除非你们释放我们的兄弟。”
If genuine, the video would be the first public glimpse of the girls since they were seized on April 14 from the village of Chibok in Nigeria’s far northeast, a region in turmoil for years over an Islamist insurgency.
4月14日，该组织从尼日利亚东部的奇博克镇劫走了这些女孩。如果视频真实可靠，这将是公众自那时以来首次看到这些女孩。由于伊斯兰主义者的叛乱活动，奇博克镇多年来一直处于动乱之中。
In the message, Mr. Shekau seems almost surprised at the global shock over the mass abduction of schoolgirls, and tries to use it to his advantage.
从视频来看，谢考似乎对大规模绑架女学生事件所造成的全球震动感到惊讶，并打算加以利用。
“Just because we kidnapped these young girls, you are making noise?” Mr. Shekau says in the video. “You are making so much noise about Chibok, Chibok, Chibok.”
“仅仅因为我们绑架了这些年轻女孩，你们就大吵大闹？”谢考在视频中说。“你们念叨着奇博克、奇博克、奇博克，闹得太厉害了。”
In a previous video message just last week, Mr. Shekau had treated the girls more as an ideological prize than a negotiating tactic, calling them slaves and threatening to “sell them in the market.”
从上周公布的另一段视频来看，谢考更多是将这些女孩当作意识形态斗争中的战利品，而不是谈判策略。当时他称她们是奴隶，并威胁要“在市场上卖掉她们”。
He reiterated the group’s longstanding position that “Western education should end,” and warned that, “Girls, you should go and get married.”
他重申了该组织长期以来的立场，宣称“西式教育应该终止”，并且警告称，“姑娘们，你们应该离开学校去嫁人”。
But in the latest video, Boko Haram’s demands became more focused on its violent struggle with the Nigerian authorities, saying the girls would not be freed until the release of “our brethren that are held all over Nigeria,” Mr. Shekau said.
然而，在最新的视频中，博科圣地组织的要求更集中于该组织与尼日利亚当局的暴力斗争。谢考在视频中称，不会释放这些女孩，除非“关在尼日利亚各地的兄弟们”获得释放。
At one point, he chuckles, waves a stick at the camera, spits out the word “infidel” in Hausa, the dominant language of Nigeria’s north, and promises to “kidnap even Obama.”
视频当中，谢考一度咯咯轻笑，对着镜头挥舞一根木棍，用尼日利亚北部的主要语言豪萨语吐出了“异教徒”这个词，并发誓“连奥巴马也要绑架”。
The video offered a fleeting picture of the coerced new life these teenagers, until recently simply high school students who saw their parents every morning, have been thrust into.
视频当中有一串转瞬即逝的画面，显示了这些遭人绑架的少女在胁迫之下的新生活，直到最近，她们还只是每天早上都会见到父母的高中生而已。
The girls chant verses passively. Two hold up the black flag of the Islamists in the background. Three girls are questioned by an off-camera voice. One says she converted to Islam because “Jesus is not the son of God.” Another tells the interviewer in a rote monotone: “I will rebel against my parents. I am grateful to God. I have seen the correct path.”
女孩们在顺从地诵经。背景中有两人举着该伊斯兰主义组织的黑旗。有三名女孩接受了画外音的提问。一名女孩说，她已经皈依了伊斯兰教，因为“耶稣不是真神之子”。另一名女孩用死记硬背的腔调对提问者说：“我会反抗我的父母。我对真主感激不尽。我已看到正确的道路。”
The interviewer asks if she has been “manhandled,” and she answers, “no.” He asks what she has been eating, and the solemn answer is, rice.
提问者问她有没有受到“粗暴的对待”，她回答说，“没有。”提问者问她吃的是什么，她一本正经地回答说，米饭。
It is unclear whether the Nigerian government, widely criticized for its inability to rescue any of the kidnapped girls, is in negotiations with Boko Haram. A top northern official said over the weekend that the federal authorities in the capital, Abuja, had engaged the services of an “Australian intermediary” to negotiate with the group.
目前尚不清楚尼日利亚政府是否在和博科圣地进行谈判，该政府已因无力解救任何被绑架女孩而受到了广泛的指责。北部的一名高官在周末表示，首都阿布贾的联邦当局已经委派了一名“澳大利亚中间人”去和该组织进行谈判。
Adding credence to his assertion, the official noted days before the video was released that the group appeared to be seeking a “prisoner exchange.” A government spokesman on Sunday stopped short of an outright denial, saying merely that he was “not aware” of “formal” negotiations.
在前述视频公布几天之前，这名官员曾指出，该组织似乎想争取“交换俘虏”，这一说法为他的言辞增加了可信度。周日，一名政府发言人没有彻底否认该官员的说法，只是说自己“没听说”什么“正式”的谈判。
In this region, where few aspects of civilian life are fully insulated from the violence, schools had been closed for weeks before the mass kidnapping because of other Boko Haram attacks. But the girls had come back to the Chibok government school to take an exam, and were staying overnight. The Islamists overpowered what little police protection the town possessed, and seized more than 300 girls. About 50 were able to flee their captors. By some counts, close to 300 remain missing.
在这个地区，平民生活很少有什么方面完全不受暴力的影响。前述大规模绑架发生之前，由于博科圣地组织发动的其他袭击，该地区的学校已经关闭了数周。不过，女孩们还是回到奇博克的官办学校去参加考试，并在学校过夜。而伊斯兰主义者制服了镇上仅有的一点警力，劫走了300多名女孩。有大约50名女孩从绑架者手中逃了出来，但根据一些统计，仍有近300人下落不明。
Chibok is primarily a Christian village, and Mr. Shekau appeared to acknowledge that many of the girls seized were not Muslims. “The girls that have not accepted Islam, they are now gathered in numbers,” he said. “And we treat them well the way the prophet treated the infidels he seized.”
奇博克总体上是一个信仰基督教的村庄，而谢考似乎也承认，许多被抓的女孩并不是穆斯林。他说，“还没有皈依伊斯兰教的女孩现在大量地聚集在了一起。我们对待她们的方式一如先知穆罕默德对待异教徒俘虏的方式。”