The devastating earthquake in Nepal in April killed thousands of people and displaced hundreds of thousands more. And it reduced hundreds of historic monuments to rubble.
尼泊尔4月发生的毁灭性地震造成数千人死亡，另有数十万人流离失所。地震还致使数百处历史遗迹成为废墟。
Chinese researchers now say the earthquake was so strong that it also moved the world’s highest peak, Mount Everest.
中国的研究人员现在称，受那场强烈地震的影响，全世界最高的山峰珠穆朗玛峰发生了位移。
The summit, which marks the border between China and Nepal, moved three centimeters, or 1.2 inches, southwest in the earthquake, according to a survey by the National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geoinformation of China, the state news media reported.
官方新闻媒体报道称，中国国家测绘地理信息局勘测发现，在那场地震中，作为中国与尼泊尔边界的珠穆朗玛峰向西南方向移动了3厘米。
The mountain’s height — it rises 29,028 feet above sea level — did not change, according to the survey.
从勘测结果来看，其29028英尺（约合8848米）的海拔没有变化。
In the decade preceding the quake, the mountain had moved 15.7 inches northeast and gained 1.2 inches in height, the state news agency Xinhua said, citing the survey report. Mount Everest is the highest elevation created by the Indian tectonic plate’s collision with the Eurasian plate beneath the Himalayas.
国家通讯社新华社援引该测绘报告称，地震发生之前的10年中，珠峰向东北方向位移了40厘米，高度上升了3厘米。珠穆朗玛峰是印度板块与欧亚板块，在喜马拉雅山脉下方发生碰撞，挤压形成的最高峰。
The 7.8-magnitude earthquake on April 25 set off an avalanche, captured in witnesses’ videos, that buried a camp used by climbers on their way to Mount Everest’s peak. The avalanche killed 18 people at the camp, which was at 18,000 feet above sea level on the Nepalese side of the border.
4月25日发生的7.8级地震引发了雪崩，导致攀登珠穆朗峰的登山者使用的一处营地被埋。当时的情形被目击者拍摄的视频捕捉到了。雪崩导致营地里的18人死亡。该营地位于尼泊尔一侧，海拔18000英尺。
A South African climber, Sean Wisedale, described the falling mass of snow and ice as “terrifying” on his blog. “A massive ice slab sheared and thundered into Base Camp,” he wrote. “It lifted rocks and boulders ahead of it, slamming into hundreds of tents in the center of the camp and spilling over onto the Khumbu glacier on the other side.”
南非登山者肖恩·怀斯达勒(Sean Wisedale)在博客上形容，掉落的雪块和冰块很“可怕”。“一片巨大的冰块断裂，轰隆隆地砸到了大本营里，”他写道。“它掀起前面的岩石和巨砾，砸入大本营中心的数百顶帐篷，还溅落到了另一侧的昆布冰川。”
“We were hit by a hundred-meter-high plume of crystallized ice about a minute after the quake,” he wrote. “We all dived into our safest and most shielded tents. The horror was unimaginable as it went completely dark and we huddled around hoping not to be crushed alive.”
“地震发生大约一分钟后，我们被一团100米高的冰晶击中，”他写道。“大家都冲进最安全、防护最好的帐篷。四周变得一片漆黑，恐惧难以想象，我们围在一起，期望不要被活生生地压死。”