Zindzi Mandela’s earliest memory is sitting outside a Pretoria, South Africa, police station in 1962 while her mother, Winnie, delivered a favorite dish to her father, Nelson Mandela, being held inside.
珍德兹·曼德拉(Zindzi Mandela)最初的记忆始于1962年南非比勒陀利亚的警察局，她坐在外面，母亲温妮(Winnie)去给被拘禁在里面的父亲纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)送他喜欢吃的食物。
“I was 18 months old, but I can really remember that moment, sitting in the car, waiting for my mother to return. I must have sensed somehow that there had been some sort of trauma, and I was very scared. It was taking her so long.”
“我那时只有18个月大，但还清楚地记得那个时刻，我坐在轿车里，等着妈妈回来。我当时肯定是感觉到了某种创伤，我非常害怕。她去了太久。”
Ms. Mandela was recounting this memory while sipping a cranberry soda beneath the imposing columns of the Pierre Hotel’s elegant main bar in Manhattan more than half a century later. “I had no notions back when I was a girl in Soweto or a young woman involved in the struggle that I would one day go from that place to spending my life in rooms like this,” she said.
时隔半个世纪，曼德拉女士在曼哈顿皮埃尔酒店优雅的大酒吧里回忆这段往事，酒吧里有着宏伟的廊柱，她喝着蔓越莓苏打水。“无论小时候在索韦托，还是年轻时卷入斗争，我从来没想到自己能有一天会从那种地方离开，来到这样的房间生活。”
The long arc of a person’s life was on Ms. Mandela’s mind because, the previous evening, yet another film about her revered father, now 95 and bedridden from a lung infection that has him fighting for his life, had its premiere, this one at Alice Tully Hall. And the film — “Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom,” based on Mr. Mandela’s autobiography — tells the complicated and not always uplifting story of his life, from a childhood in a tiny rural village to his slow immersion in the struggle against apartheid, his leadership of the African National Congress, his 27 years in prison and his eventual resurrection and triumph.
曼德拉女士回忆起这样漫长的人生历程，是因为前一天晚上，一部关于她备受尊崇的父亲的新片在爱丽丝·杜丽大厅上映了。当时曼德拉95岁，因肺部感染卧床不起，正在为活下去而奋斗。这部影片名为《曼德拉：漫漫自由路》(Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom)，是根据他的自传改编，讲述了他那错综复杂、充满起落的人生，从小村庄度过的孩提时代到逐渐卷入反对种族隔离的斗争，领导非洲国民大会(African National Congress)，乃至27年的牢狱生涯，直至最终的重生与胜利。
Some of the most prominent movies about Mr. Mandela, like Clint Eastwood’s “Invictus,” have burrowed in on one episode in his life, much as Steven Spielberg did with the passage of the 13th Amendment in “Lincoln.” But that was not an option this time. “We were adapting his book,” the director, Justin Chadwick, said. “So we had to have the whole journey. We couldn’t cherry-pick.”
有些关于曼德拉的著名影片，如克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)的《成事在人》(Invictus)是从曼德拉人生经历的某段时期取材，有点像史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)在《林肯》(Lincoln)里那样，只拍了通过第13修正案的那段时期。但这次却不是如此。“我们改编了他的整本书，”导演贾斯汀·查德维克(Justin Chadwick)说，“我们得拍出整个过程，不能就捡好听的说。”
Those who lived through those years in South Africa, or even through just part of them, must inevitably watch the film while comparing its depiction with their own memories. For Zindzi Mandela, this is a highly personal and emotionally draining challenge that she is still wrestling with.
曾经走过那个时代的南非人，哪怕只经历了其中的一部分，看这部影片时也免不了拿它和自己的记忆相对比。对于珍德兹·曼德拉来说，那段历史非常个人化，而且极度耗费感情，她至今仍在努力与之斗争。
On a much smaller scale, I had been based in South Africa as a foreign correspondent for four years in the early ’90s, arriving three weeks after Mr. Mandela was released from prison and leaving the day after he was inaugurated president, pretty much the entire transition period to multiracial democracy. I saw Mr. Mandela many times over those years, at political events and social occasions, and interviewed him a few times. The genial grandfather with the halting speech pattern and the puckish sense of humor that he presented in public concealed, as we all knew, a spine of steel and an almost supernatural stubbornness that forced the world to come to him.
我在南非的经历则要短得多。20世纪90年代初，我曾在那里当过四年驻外记者，我抵达南非时，曼德拉刚刚获释三周，我离开的前一天，他宣誓就职总统，我正好经历了南非实现多种族民主的整个过渡阶段。那些年里，我曾多次在政治活动和社交场合见过曼德拉先生，也采访过他好几次。这位亲切和蔼的祖父说话不时停顿，还带有公开场合讲话时会刻意隐藏起来的恶作剧式幽默，以及众所周知的铮铮铁骨和近乎神奇的倔强，曾令整个世界都为之瞩目。
No film can be expected to capture the nuance and multiple dimensions of a man as politically canny and historically towering as Nelson Mandela, of course. To try to distill Lincoln onto the screen, Mr. Spielberg focused on a single episode in his life, allowing the president’s subtle gamesmanship and disarming folksiness the space to reveal itself. The filmmakers here had to capture a man who, unlike Lincoln, is still around and whose family and friends and allies know vividly.
纳尔逊·曼德拉是一位政治上精明狡黠、同时历史地位崇高的人，显然没有一部电影能捕捉他身上的各种细微差别与多重层面。为将林肯的故事提炼到银幕之上，斯皮尔伯格只集中拍摄了他人生的某一时期，让这位总统微妙的政治花招与令人放弃戒备的亲切感可以逐渐展现出来。而本片的导演所拍摄的人物却与林肯不同，他当时仍然在世，他的家人、朋友与盟友们都深深地了解他。
The task therefore was to cram a life, especially one as event-filled and consequential as Mr. Mandela’s, into a single film without turning it into a toothless exercise in hagiography. The solution Mr. Chadwick and his screenwriter, William Nicholson, came up with was to use the prism of his family, particularly his marriage to Winnie and his interaction with his children. Though there are still passages spelling out the complex chess game that Mr. Mandela played with P. W. Botha, F. W. de Klerk and other apartheid leaders, the core of the film involves his faltering relationships with his family.
导演的任务是要把曼德拉充满重大事件的一生塞进一部影片，同时又不令它成为没有实际意义的圣人传。查德维克和编剧威廉·尼克尔森(William Nicholson)想到的办法就是从曼德拉家人的角度出发，特别是他与温妮的婚姻，以及他与儿女们的互动。片中也有曼德拉与P·W·波塔(P.W. Bptha)、F·W·德克勒克(F. W. de Klerk)等种族隔离制度下的领导们进行政治博弈的段落，但核心还是关于他和家庭之间的动荡关系。
That Winnie, Zindzi and other Mandela children acted as official “historical advisers” became more of a benefit than a hindrance, Mr. Chadwick said, because they were just as keen as he was to have Mr. Mandela portrayed in the round, including his faults.
温妮、珍德兹和其他曼德拉的子女们担任影片的官方“历史顾问”，这对影片利大于弊。查德维克说，因为他们和他一样，热忱地希望把曼德拉全方位地呈现出来，也包括他的缺点错误。
“He is a human being,” Zindzi Mandela said. “An extraordinary one, but a human being.”
“他是人，”珍德兹·曼德拉说，“尽管他是个非凡的人，但毕竟是人。”
It is not exactly a warts-and-all story. Mr. Mandela emerges — as one might expect from a film based on his own version of events and overseen by members of his family — as a great and inspiring leader who saw more clearly and fought more resolutely than anyone else. But shadows and contradictions are allowed to creep in, from Mr. Mandela’s serial philandering as a young man to his disappearance into the anti-apartheid struggle that left his wife and children foundering in township poverty. Winnie is not spared either, emerging as an angry and estranged wife who embraces violent revenge when her husband speaks of reconciliation and peace.
该片并不是一成不变地照搬事实。它建立在曼德拉本人对事件的观点之上，在他的家人监督下拍摄完成，不难想见，片中的曼德拉被塑造为一位伟大而鼓舞人心的领袖，比任何人都有远见，比任何人都要坚决地斗争。但阴影与矛盾也被允许混入其中，比如他年轻时曾玩弄许多女性，后来又投身反种族隔离斗争，令妻子儿女沦落小镇，过着贫困生活。温妮也同样没有幸免，她被塑造为一个愤怒而疏远的妻子，当丈夫宣扬和解与和平时，她却热衷于暴力复仇。
“It allowed us to not be too sanctimonious about Mandela, which is often the case with biopics,” said Idris Elba, the British actor best known in America for his television roles in “The Wire” and “Luther,” who plays Mr. Mandela from young adulthood to his mid-70s.
“我们没有像很多传记片里那样，把曼德拉过分神圣化，”英国演员伊德里斯·艾尔巴(Idris Elba)说，他在美国以电视剧《火线》(The Wire)和《路德》(Luther)中的角色为人熟知，在本片中饰演从青年直至七十五六岁的曼德拉。
Ms. Mandela has gotten used to seeing actors portray her father on screen — like Sidney Poitier in the TV movie “Mandela and de Klerk” (1997) and Morgan Freeman in “Invictus” (2009) — and has even appeared as a character herself. But never before, she said, has a film tried to capture the arc of her distant and fractured relationship with her father, and the painful breakup of her parents’ marriage.
珍德兹·曼德拉已经习惯了看到演员在屏幕上饰演自己的父亲——比如1997年的电视电影《南非风云之曼德拉与德克勒克》(Mandela and de Klerk)中的西德尼·波蒂埃(Sidney Poitier)，以及2009年《成事在人》中的摩根·弗里曼(Morgan Freeman)——她甚至在那些影片中亲身饰演过角色。但她说，还从没有一部电影像这部影片一样，试图捕捉她与父亲之间疏离破碎的关系，以及父母那段婚姻是如何痛苦地破裂。
In public, in those days, Mr. Mandela was genial if a bit on the courtly and formal side but always ready to flirt with young women on the elevators at A.N.C. headquarters in downtown Johannesburg. But the sometimes glowering and despairing character who emerges now and then in Mr. Elba’s performance was always kept backstage, though his closest aides would sometimes describe blistering dress-downs.
当时，在公共场合，曼德拉是一个亲切和蔼的人，威严、谦和又庄重，不过也常常在约翰内斯堡非国大总部的电梯里和年轻女人调情。他不时也会愤怒与绝望，贴身助理们说他有时痛斥他人，不留情面，这些全都没有出现在艾尔巴的演绎之中。
“You should have been in his family to see that side of his personality,” Ms. Mandela said. “Oh, he could be quite angry. And you could always tell when he was angry. Whenever he started pacing his words, you knew that you were in trouble.”
“你得到他家里才能看到他性格的这一面，”曼德拉女士说。“他可能会非常愤怒。你能看出他什么时候生气了。每当他开始字斟句酌，你就知道自己有麻烦了。”
The part of the Mandela story that I knew best, the negotiations to persuade white South Africans to share power with the black majority, the bloodshed in the townships and the eventual, almost unbelievable transformation of the apartheid state into a colorblind democracy, is but one section of the film. For me, though, it was my window on the story.
在曼德拉的生平故事之中，我最了解的还要算他同南非白人进行谈判，说服他们与占大多数的黑人分享权力这一段，许多小镇爆发流血事件，但最终种族隔离制度还是难以置信地转变为不分种族肤色的民主制度，这段时期只是电影的一部分，不过对于我来说，算是我深入讨论这个故事的窗口。
So many of the important characters of that period — notably Joe Slovo and the South African Communist Party — are airbrushed out. Besides a “Comrade Mandela” sign at a rally, there is no indication of Mr. Mandela’s stubborn insistence on loyalty toward Mr. Slovo and the Communists, even after international leaders, in the wake of the collapse of the Soviet Union, pressed Mr. Mandela to assuage the fears of global business leaders by renouncing his longtime ally. Missing, too, are Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma, Mr. Mandela’s successors as president and key players in the negotiations.
这个时期的许多重要人物被抹去了，特别值得注意的是乔·斯洛沃(Joe Slovo)和南非共产党。除了一次集会上“曼德拉同志”的标语，片中没有任何迹象表明曼德拉曾固执地对斯洛沃与共产党保持忠诚，甚至当苏联解体后，国际上的领导者们迫使他为缓解世界经济领袖们的恐惧而放弃这个长期联盟时也是如此。此外继任曼德拉担任总统的塔博·姆贝基(Thabo Mbeki)和雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)也没有出现，他们都曾在谈判中担任重要角色。
The Zulu-based Inkatha party, with whom A.N.C. supporters battled in the townships during those years, is not mentioned, and it will be difficult for viewers to understand exactly who was fighting, and why, during the “civil war” in the townships in the early ’90s. Instead, the period is used to illustrate Mr. Mandela’s shift from his earlier embrace of violence to his post-prison insistence on reconciliation and peace, and how a split over that tactic was among the forces that broke up his marriage. Winnie’s own controversial activities during those years are touched upon as well, but not some of the grisly charges that were leveled against her.
祖鲁人的政党因卡塔党曾与非国大的支持者们在小镇中斗争多年，片中也同样没有提起他们，这样观众会很难理解90年代初期南非小镇的“内战”中，究竟是谁在作战，他们究竟是为什么而战。片中那段时期被用来描绘曼德拉是如何从早期接受暴力手段，过渡为出狱后极力坚持和解与和平，以及不同势力对这个策略的分歧是如何破坏了他的婚姻。片中也涉及那些年间温妮有争议的行为，但没有拍摄针对她的严重指控。
Of the younger leaders who emerged then, and who are now playing prominent roles in South Africa’s government, only one — Patrick Lekota, known as Terror, whose nickname came from his soccer-playing style — appears briefly. He was a leader of the United Democratic Front, among the more radical groups that felt the “old men” running the A.N.C. had lost their stomach for the struggle.
至于在那段时期崛起的年轻领袖，以及在当今南非政府中扮演重要角色的人物，片中只提到了帕特里克·勒科塔(Patrick Lekota)，他绰号“恐怖”，这个名号源自他踢足球的风格。片中他的戏份很少，时任联合民主阵线(United Democratic Front)的领袖，这是当时较为激进的组织之一，认为非国大的“老家伙”们已经丧失了斗争精神。
Mr. Chadwick, a British director from Manchester who counts the intense and realistic films of Ken Loach as an inspiration, plotted with his screenwriter to carve an emotional path through this thicket of incident and personalities. Mr. Chadwick was also determined, he said, to make the film as “immersive” as possible.
查德维克是一位来自曼彻斯特的英国导演，他以肯·洛奇(Ken Loach)紧凑激烈的现实主义影片为灵感来源，和编剧协作，在这片充斥着事件与人物的灌木丛中开拓出富于情感的小径。查德维克说，自己决心让影片尽可能成为“沉浸式”的。
“We wanted to feel like we were right in there, amongst it,” he said. “Everything had to be 360.”
“我们希望它给人当时就在现场的感受，”他说，“一切都必须是360度全方位的呈现。”
Recreating the townships of that era proved difficult. Soweto streets that were once gravel now are paved, houses once surrounded by chain-link fences are now bounded by concrete walls, and many have shiny new cars parked outside, unheard of in those days. The filmmakers had trouble laying their hands on the armored military vehicles or the ubiquitous yellow Internal Security vans that once terrorized the townships, as they were either destroyed or in museums. A run-down commercial strip in Kliptown, one of Soweto’s oldest neighborhoods, had to double for Sophiatown, the former black neighborhood in Johannesburg that was bulldozed by apartheid authorities in their zeal to separate the races. While some filming took place on Robben Island, where Mr. Mandela was held, today, the prison is a museum, so the filmmakers had to build a set showing the prison’s central courtyard and a row of cells as they would have appeared in those days.
重塑那个年代的小城镇是项艰巨的任务。索韦托的街道一度布满碎石，如今已被铺平，房子周围的铁丝网换成了水泥墙，很多房子外面还停着簇新的汽车，这在当年可是闻所未闻。摄制组还很难弄来当年在小镇上执行恐怖统治的装甲军车与国内安全部门无处不在的黄色面包车，它们不是已经销毁就是送进了博物馆。克里普镇一片破旧的商业区是索韦托最古老的街区之一，片中只能用它来代替索菲亚镇——一个约翰内斯堡的黑人区，奉行种族隔离的当局曾在那里狂热地强制推行种族隔离制度。有些场景是在罗宾岛发生的，当年曼德拉就被关押在那里，如今监狱已经变成了博物馆，设置者们只好建了一个背景，仿照当年的样子盖了监狱的中心庭院和几排牢房。
Mr. Elba was understandably nervous about depicting such a familiar figure, especially since he does not particularly resemble Mr. Mandela. He tried to do it by using Mr. Mandela’s distinctive speech patterns and the pained, shuffling walk of his later years.
要演绎这样一个家喻户晓的人物，艾尔巴的紧张心情可以理解，特别是他在外形上与曼德拉并不太相像。他试图通过模仿曼德拉独特的讲话方式和晚年痛苦的蹒跚步履来塑造这一角色。
“Normally, I’m highly critical of actors doing voice work,” Mr. Elba said. “Outside of a small handful of people who are especially gifted at it, like Daniel Day-Lewis, I don’t think it works. But we had already blindsided the audience by giving them a Mandela who was not a lookie-like, so I knew I had to do something.”
“我一般对自己配音的演员格外挑剔，”艾尔巴说，“除了少数几个格外有天赋的人，比如丹尼尔·戴-刘易斯(Daniel Day-Lewis)。我觉得这没什么用处。但是我们给观众带来一个外形完全不像的曼德拉，这已经够打击他们的了，所以我知道自己得做点什么别的。”
There were a few incidents during the filming that made him confident he was on target, Mr. Elba said.
艾尔巴说，拍摄过程中出现的一些小插曲，令他相信自己是对的。
In the first week of shooting, he had to give a historic speech that Mr. Mandela delivered on South African television, exhorting his followers to abandon violent struggle and embrace the peace process. (“We cannot win a war,” Mr. Mandela told them, “but we can win an election.”) An old sound technician came over afterward and told him that, by coincidence, he had miked Mr. Mandela for that speech.
第一周拍摄时，他就要拍一场曼德拉在南非电视台上所做的历史性讲演，劝告他的支持者们放弃暴力斗争，接受和平进程（“我们无法赢得战争，”他告诉他们，“但是我们能够赢得选举”）。一位年长的声音技工事后特意来告诉他，曼德拉做那次讲话时，正好是他做的调音。
“He told me it was uncanny, so I thought, ‘O.K., I’m on the right track,’ ” Mr. Elba said.
“他告诉我，我的表演不可思议，我想，‘好吧，我的路子走对了，’”艾尔巴说。
Zindzi Mandela has seen the film many times, she said, but so far only with a large audience. “I have had to watch the way I react,” she said as she prepared to head out into the Manhattan afternoon. “What I need to do is to see the film alone. Only then, I think, will I be able to allow myself to feel it completely.”
珍德兹·曼德拉说自己已经多次看过这部影片，但迄今都是和许多观众一起。“我得随时注意自己的反应，”那天下午，她准备去曼哈顿的时候说，“我需要独自一人观看这部电影。我想只有到那时我才能够全心全意地去感受它。”
She was quite bitter with her father for leaving the family and disappearing into the A.N.C. underground and then prison. And even after he was released, pressing duties kept him away from the family.
父亲离开家庭投身于非国大的秘密活动，后来又进了监狱那段，尤其令她感到辛酸。还有他被释放后，因为有太多工作急需处理，令他仍然无法亲近家庭。
“I used to joke that, at least when he was in prison, I was guaranteed two visits every month,” she said. She was also angry with him for coming out of prison with a message of reconciliation rather than the military triumph that she and her mother and many other township activists craved.
“我曾经开玩笑说，至少他在监狱那段日子里，我每月肯定还能见他两次，”她说。此外，他出狱后带来的是和解的信息，而不是她和母亲以及许多小城镇的激进分子们所渴望的军事胜利，这也令她感到愤怒。
“I just didn’t believe that people could change their minds overnight,” she said.
“我只是不相信人们能在一夜之间就改变心意，”她说。
Now, she said, she rarely talks about those difficult years with her own children or the many other Mandela grandchildren, worried that it might somehow betray her father’s policy of reconciliation. Mr. Mandela rests now in a hospital bed in his Johannesburg home, hooked up to a respirator and trying to get well enough to be allowed to travel down to Qunu, the small village in the Eastern Cape where he was raised. That, she said, is where he wants to die.
如今，她说自己已经很少和自己的孩子以及曼德拉的其他孙辈们谈起那些艰难的岁月，担心这样会背离父亲的和解政策。当时曼德拉卧病约翰内斯堡家中，戴着呼吸机，希望痊愈后能到库努村旅行，那是东开普省的一个小村庄，曼德拉就是在那里长大成人。她说，父亲希望自己能在那里与世长辞。
The long arc of Nelson Mandela’s life is drawing to a close, she knows.
那个时候她知道，纳尔逊·曼德拉漫长的人生轨迹即将走到尽头。
“Intellectually, I know he is dying,” Ms. Mandela said. “But emotionally, I am not ready.”
“理智上，我知道他就要死了，”曼德拉女士说，“但从感情上，我还没有做好准备。”