Consumers are downloading Apple’s latest mobile operating system in droves, despite some harsh criticism from designers, app developers and journalists who had tried early versions of the software.
尽管设计师、应用开发者和记者在试用过苹果(Apple)最新移动操作系统的早期版本后，曾提出过一些尖锐的批评，但现在消费者正在一窝蜂地下载这款系统。
Chitika, an online advertising network that pulls data through apps that serve its ads, estimated that 18 percent of all iOS devices downloaded the new software, iOS 7, within 24 hours of its release on Wednesday. Chitika based its estimate on a sampling of millions of ad impressions in North America. The adoption rate of iOS 7 appeared to surpass that of its predecessor, iOS 6, which was downloaded on 14.8 percent of iOS devices on its first day of release, according to Chitika.
Chitika是一家在线广告企业，可以从提供其广告的应用中收集数据。该公司估计，在iOS 7于周三发布后的24小时内，共有18%的iOS设备下载了这款新系统。Chitika的估计是对北美地区数百万次广告呈现进行抽样得出的。人们对iOS 7的采用率似乎超过了它的前一个版本iOS 6。据Chitika提供的数据，在iOS 6发布的第一天，共有14.8%的iOS设备进行了下载。
This is good news for Apple. It is beneficial for Apple, and any handset maker, to keep customers running the latest software. Older smartphones don’t run the new software system as well as the latest models, and some features won’t work at all. For example, iOS 7’s new camera filters work with newer iPhones, but not the older iPhone 4. Running the new operating system encourages people with old iPhones to buy a new model to take advantage of the new features.
这对苹果来说是个好消息。无论是对苹果，还是对其他任何手机制造商而言，让客户使用最新版软件都有好处。旧型号的手机并不能像最新型号的手机一样良好地运行这个新系统，还有些功能特性根本无法使用。例如，iOS 7的新相机滤镜可以用在较新型号的iPhone上，但是较老的iPhone 4就无法使用。新操作系统会促使还在用旧款iPhone的人去购买新的型号，以便使用那些新的特性。
If there’s one thing to learn from new versions of Apple’s mobile software, iOS, it might be that everyday people don’t care about what so-called tech influencers have to say. Many developers and designers scrutinized early versions of iOS 7 before its release, saying it was awkward to use and the design was not attractive.
如果说苹果移动软件iOS的新版本能够给我们一点启示，那就是，普通人根本不在乎所谓的科技产业左右者的意见。很多开发者和设计师都对iOS 7发布前的各个早期版本进行了仔细研究，这些人称新系统使用起来很别扭，而且设计也毫无吸引力。
Similarly, before iOS 6 was released last year, journalists and app developers criticized the operating system for its spotty maps app, which replaced Google’s mapping data with Apple’s own. Still, Apple in January said that 300 million iOS devices had upgraded to iOS 6 five months after its release. (Around that time, Apple had sold roughly 500 million iOS devices; it has now sold 700 million.)
同样地，去年在iOS 6发布之前，记者和应用开发者也批评该系统的地图应用存在瑕疵，因为苹果用自己的地图数据替代了谷歌(Google)的地图数据。尽管如此，苹果1月仍表示，在iOS 6发布5个月后，有3亿台iOS设备将操作系统升级到了这个版本。（当时，苹果共售出了大约5亿台iOS设备，目前有7亿台。）
The latest operating system has a far different design than earlier versions, but consumers appear to be reacting mostly positively to the change. Topsy, a company that does Twitter analytics, sampled seven million Twitter posts about iOS 7. About 1.2 million of the tweets were positive and 1.1 million were negative; the rest were neutral. Most of the negative tweets were from people complaining about having to wait to download the software update, Topsy said.
最新版的操作系统与过去的版本在设计上存在很大区别，但用户对这种变化的反应似乎大都是正面的。分析Twitter数据的公司Topsy对700万条关于iOS 7的Twitter讯息进行了研究，其中有大约120万条是正面讯息，另有110万条是负面讯息，其他的则表示中立。Topsy说，大多数负面Twitter讯息都来自那些抱怨下载更新需要等待的人。