China reacted to Congress’ deal avoiding a debt default for now with welcomes, warnings and mockery on Thursday. It took a retired official to emphasize the awkward fact that China has little choice but to stay shackled to the dollar — for now.
美国国会通过避免当前发生债务违约的法案后，中国方面周四作出的反应包括欢迎、警告和讽刺。只有一名退休官员强调这样一个尴尬事实，即目前而言中国别无选择，只能继续与美元捆绑在一起。
China’s leaders appeared to share their U.S. counterparts’ relief that Congress finally reached a budget deal that will avoid a potential default on the federal government’s debt obligations. A spokeswoman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Hua Chunying, said the government welcomed the agreement in Washington.
中国领导人似乎与美国领导人一样，对美国国会终于达成预算协议感到如释重负，该协议将使美国联邦政府避免债务违约。中国外交部女发言人华春莹说，中国政府对华盛顿达成这一协议表示欢迎。
“The United States is the world’s largest economy, and appropriately dealing with the issues in question suits the United States’ own interests, and also helps world economic stability and development,” Ms. Hua told a daily news conference in Beijing, according to the Web site of the China Daily newspaper.
根据《中国日报》网站的报道，华春莹在北京举行的例行记者会上说，“美国是世界最大的经济体，妥善处理有关问题符合美自身利益，有利于世界经济稳定和发展。”
But the jeering and warnings from China’s state news media is likely to continue.
但是中国官方媒体的嘲讽和警告很可能继续。
China is the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasury assets, and a default would have been an economic blow to the Chinese government and a political and diplomatic migraine, too: How to explain to its citizens why the government keeps so much of the country’s wealth in U.S. Treasury bonds and other dollar assets, especially when your own, state-run Xinhua news agency has mocked Washington’s incompetence and called for “de-Americanization”?
中国政府是美国国债的最大海外持有者，违约将给中国政府带来沉重的经济打击，还会带来政治和外交上的头疼问题：如何向中国人民解释政府为什么要把如此多的国家财富投入美国国债和其他美元资产，尤其是在官方的新华社嘲讽美国无能并呼吁要“去美国化”的时候？
The Xinhua commentator who wrote that already notorious call to rid the world of U.S. dominance was not heartened by the congressional deal.
呼吁世界剥夺美国主导地位的那篇如今已出名的新华社署名文章的作者，并没有对美国国会达成协议感到宽慰。
“Politicians in Washington have done nothing substantial but postponing once again the final bankruptcy of global confidence in the U.S. financial system,” the columnist, Liu Chang, wrote on Thursday.
专栏作家刘畅周四写道，“华盛顿的政客没有做一点实质性的工作，只是又一次推迟了全球对美国金融体系信心最终破产的时间。”
“If the U.S. government continues with its irresponsible dilatory approach over its debt disease, there will be a day when Uncle Sam busts his borrowing limit while the groaning U.S. economy drifting far beyond redemption,” said the not always perfectly fluent English-language commentary. “In fact, self-salvation lies within.”
这篇并不完全通顺的英文评论继续写道，“如果美国政府继续对债务问题采取拖拖拉拉、不负责任的政策，终有一天‘山姆大叔’将突破债务限制，苟延残喘的美国经济将滑入不可救药的的深渊。事实上，美国可以自救。”
But Cheng Siwei, a retired Chinese politician, explained that China’s choices are more limited and complex than such blaring headlines suggest.
但是退休的中国政界人士成思危解释说，相比那些刺耳的新闻标题给人的印象，中国的选择更加有限，情况也更加复杂。
“For now it’s still difficult to find a stable investment instrument that could replace U.S. debt,” Mr. Cheng told the China News Service on Wednesday, before the deal in Congress was reached.
在国会通过这项法案前夕，成思危在周三接受中新网采访时说，“暂时未能找到其它可以代替美债的保险投资工具。”
“China has no choice but to keep and not cut U.S. debt holdings,” the report said, summarizing Mr. Cheng’s remarks. “China has such large holdings of U.S. debt that if it cuts those holdings, then that in turn leads to another fall in their value. China needs the insurance of a stable investment instrument, and U.S. debt is still the better option, and for now there’s no other instrument to replace it.”
这篇报道总结成思危的言论称，“中国持有美债不能减持是不得已之举。中国持有大量美债，一旦减持，将令美债价格进一步下跌。而中国需要稳健保险的投资工具，美债仍是较好选择，暂时找不到其它工具代替。”
Mr. Cheng is a retired economist and official who once served as a deputy head of the national Parliament. But his arguments probably reflect the hard truths that have shaped the Chinese government’s relatively muted reaction to the spectacle of American politicians playing chicken with potential default.
成思危是一个退休的经济学家，曾担任全国人大常委会副委员长。但是他的说法可能反映了一个无情的真相，这也是为什么中国政府对美国政客面临潜在违约仍相互角力的行为反应相对低调。
China holds more foreign exchange reserves than any other country: about $3.66 trillion worth at the end of September, according to the country’s central bank. And by July, $1.3 trillion of those reserves were in U.S. Treasury securities, according to U.S. government statistics. Finding other investments that could accommodate that growing treasure chest is hard, and China’s own renminbi is still some way from acquiring the trappings of a widely used reserve currency that could displace the dollar.
中国拥有全球最大的外汇储备：中国央行数据显示，9月底中国持有的外汇储备为3.66万亿美元（约合22.32万亿元人民币）。根据美国政府数据，截止7月份，中国的1.3万亿美元外汇储备是美债。很难找到其他投资满足中国不断增长的外汇储备的需要，而人民币距离成为广泛使用的储备货币、足以取代美元的地位还相去甚远。
To reduce the dangerous dilemmas of holding so much U.S. debt, China will have to move faster to change its own economy, so that citizens spend more and domestic consumption assumes a bigger role in growth, said economists.
经济学家说，为减少持有如此多美国国债所面临的危险境况，中国要更快地推进国内经济改革，使国民增加支出，让国内消费为经济增长作出更大的贡献。
“There are some painful lessons to be learned,” one economic commentator, Yu Fenghui, told the Xinhua news agency. “Turn around the excessively large trade surplus and excessively fast growth in foreign currency reserves, and achieve a balanced trade account as quickly as possible.”
经济评论员余丰慧对新华社说，“痛定思痛。扭转贸易顺差过大，外储增长过快的局面，尽快实现贸易账户平衡。”