Q. I’m replacing the lights in my home before putting it on the market. Is it better to install LED fixtures, if it’s true that incandescent bulbs are being phased out?
问：我正在更换屋子里的灯具，打算换好之后就将房子卖掉。是不是装LED灯比较好一些？白炽灯泡是不是快要过时了？
A. From a sales perspective, high-efficiency LED lighting is a nice perk, said Ron Lense, an associate real estate broker at Douglas Elliman in Manhattan. But it may not significantly affect your selling price.
答：曼哈顿的房地产公司Douglas Elliman的经纪人罗恩·兰斯(Ron Lense)表示，从销售的角度讲，高效的LED灯具能给房子加分。但它对房子的售价可能影响并不大。
“Everybody loves going green,” he said. “They just don’t necessarily want to pay a lot of extra money for it.”
“人人都喜欢变得环保，”他说，“只不过他们不一定愿意为此多掏腰包。”
LED lighting is becoming increasingly popular, he said, and if you install it now, “you’ll be ahead of the curve.” Just be cautious about the fixtures you choose, “because this is emerging technology that is quickly changing.”
LED灯具正变得日益流行，他说，如果你现在装这种灯，“你就会领先于潮流。”只不过，在灯具的选购上要慎重些，“因为这是一种新兴的技术，新旧更迭发生得很快。”
If you buy fixtures with technology that is outdated by the time you sell your home, he said, “you’re spending money that might not come back.”
如果在出售房产时，你当初装上的灯具已经跟不上潮流，他说，“那你可能就得不偿失了。”
That’s one of the reasons that Doug Russell, a lighting designer who owns the Lighting Workshop in Brooklyn, usually recommends buying standard incandescent fixtures and adding LED bulbs as a retrofit.
正因如此，布鲁克林的照明公司Lighting Workshop的创始人、照明设计师道格·罗素(Doug Russell)一般会推荐客户购买标准的白炽灯灯具，并加装LED灯泡，作为一种改进。
“I feel better about putting today’s best LED technology into an incandescent downlight as a retrofit,” Mr. Russell said, “because I know that in three years it’s going to be obsolete and I can unscrew it and put in the latest technology. If I put in a downlight that’s an integrated LED, you’re stuck with it.”
“我觉得，利用当今最先进的LED技术对白炽筒灯进行改装，是个更好的选择，”罗素说，“因为我知道，再过三年，这项技术就会过时。到时候，我只要把LED灯泡卸下来，装上最新科技的灯具就好。如果我一开始就装的是集成LED筒灯，那就没法改装了。”
And incandescent bulbs aren’t being phased out entirely, he said. Under new legislation, “there are efficiency standards that lamps need to meet,” so some types of traditional incandescent bulbs are disappearing, he said. “But there will always be replacements for them.” The qualities of traditional 100-watt incandescent bulbs, for example, are being emulated by 72-watt halogen bulbs, which are more energy efficient.
更何况，白炽灯泡还没有完全被淘汰呢，罗素说。在新法规中，“电灯必须符合特定的能效标准，”因此有些型号的传统白炽灯泡正在被淘汰，他说，“但是总会有替代产品的。”比如说，从质量上讲，100瓦的白炽灯泡正在被72瓦的卤素灯泡赶超，后者的能效更高。
But when you are picking out LED bulbs, Mr. Russell has a recommendation: “There are a lot of really bad LED-retrofit household bulbs out there that will make your home look terrible, because the color’s awful.”
而若你正在选购LED灯泡，罗素也有个建议：“市面上有很多LED改装的家用灯泡并不好，它们会让你家里看起来很糟糕，因为颜色太难看了。”
Some of his preferred replacements are made by Philips, and the best ones tend to be a little more expensive, he said. But they “have great color, are really warm and flattering, and are dimmable.”
他说，他比较喜欢的一些替代产品是飞利浦公司(Philips)出产的，最好的灯具都会更贵些，他说。但是它们“颜色很漂亮，确实显得很温馨、很美观，而且是可以调明暗的”。
Which brings us to a potential complication of replacing an incandescent bulb with an LED model: you may not be able to control it with a standard dimmer, and you may have to replace your dimmer with one that is LED-compatible.
这也引出了一个问题，将白炽灯泡改成LED灯泡会带来潜在的麻烦：你可能没法用标准的调光器来控制它，因此不得不将原来的调光器换成与LED兼容的版本。
Mr. Russell said that there are a few exceptions to his advice about avoiding fixtures specifically designed for LEDs. Under-cabinet lighting is one.
罗素说，虽然他建议客户避免使用专门为LED设计的灯具，但也有一些例外的情况。吊柜下的柜灯就是一个例子。
“Under-cabinet lighting in kitchens is a great application for LEDs,” he said, “because you bring the light source close to the task and don’t increase heat loads” — welcome news to anyone who has halogens that get so hot they occasionally melt the contents of the cabinet above.
“厨房吊柜下的柜灯，是LED的一个重要的应用领域，”他说，“因为它能使光源接近工作台，又不会增加热负荷”——这对于一些装了卤素柜灯的消费者来说是个好消息。有些卤素柜灯会变得很热，时常把其上方吊柜里的食物融化掉。