ENCOURAGING homeownership has been considered a national goal at least since “Own Your Own Home Day” was introduced in 1920 by various business and civic groups as part of a National Thrift Week. The newly popular word “homeownership” represented a goal and a virtue for every good citizen — to get out of the tenements and into one’s own home. Homeownership was thought to encourage planning, discipline, permanency and community spirit.
鼓励国民拥有房产，长久以来已被视为一个国家目标，至少从“有房日”(Own Your Own Home Day)于1920年诞生以来便是如此。“有房日”由多个商业和国民团体发起，作为“全国勤俭周”(National Thrift Week)的组成部分。最近流行起来的热词“有房”(homeownership)，代表着每一名好公民所应具备的人生目标及美德——摆脱租赁房，住进自有宅。一般认为，拥有住房可以促使人们精打细算、节制自律、安居思定，同时培养社区精神。
In the aftermath of the subprime mortgage crisis, our national commitment to homeownership is sure to be questioned as we consider what to do about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the enterprises that are meant to increase the supply of money available for mortgages and are now under government conservatorship; the Federal Housing Administration, which directly subsidizes homeownership; and the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program, which was intended to lower interest rates. For both political and economic reasons, any or all of these encouragements for homeownership — not to mention the mortgage interest deduction — could be sharply curtailed.
置身次贷危机的余波中，当我们思考如何处置房利美(Fannie Mae)、房地美(Freddie Mac)、联邦房管局(Federal Housing Administration)和联储的量化宽松政策(quantitative easing program)时，国家对于拥有房产的承诺，肯定是值得质疑的。房利美和房地美原本的宗旨是增加按揭资金的供给，现在，这两家公司已被政府接管；联邦房管局则直接补贴买房者；而联储之所以出台量化宽松政策，本意是要降低利率。由于政治和经济的双重原因，上述所有刺激买房的机构或政策，都有可能被大幅削弱。至于减免按揭利率这项措施，那就更不用提了。
Which is why this is a good time to ask a basic question: In today’s world, is it wise for the government to subsidize homeownership?
因此，现在正是提出一个基本问题的好时机：今时今日，政府补贴买房是否明智呢？
In answering it, we have to look at the big picture by considering all the presumed advantages of owning a home, including the encouragement of thrift that animated the founders of “Own Your Own Home Day.”
要回答这个问题，我们必须纵览全局，综合考虑买房可能带来的所有好处，比如可以促使人们勤俭。当初“有房日”的发起者就是受到了这一理念的启发。
Consider Switzerland, which by several accounts has had one of the lowest rates of homeownership in the developed world. In 2010, only 36.8 percent of Swiss homes housed an owner-occupant; in the United States that same year, the rate was 66.5 percent. Yet Switzerland is doing just fine, with a gross domestic product that is 4 percent higher, per capita, than that of the United States, according to 2011 figures produced at the University of Pennsylvania.
我们来看看瑞士的情况。由于种种原因，瑞士的自有住房率在发达国家当中是最低的。2010年，只有36.8%的瑞士住房是由房主居住；而在同一时期的美国，这一比率高达66.5%。但是瑞士的经济也只是过得去而已，根据2011年宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)统计的数据，瑞士的人均国内生产总值只比美国高4%。
It’s not that the Swiss inherently prefer renting. A 1996 survey asked a sample of Swiss whether, if they could freely choose, they would rather be homeowners or renters. Eighty-three percent said homeowners.
这并不是因为瑞士人本来就喜欢租房。1996年的一项调查抽样走访了一些瑞士人，问他们如果可以自由选择，是愿意做有房族还是租客。83%的受访者选择的是做有房族。
CERTAINLY, many of us have a basic drive to create our own habitats. We enjoy personalizing our living spaces, inside and out. But there are also important practical advantages to renting to consider — especially when asking if government should support or discourage homeownership.
这是理所当然的。毕竟，建立自己的居所是我们很多人最基本的一项冲动。我们喜欢把居住空间里里外外打理出个人的独特风格。但另一方面，租房也有一些重大而实际的好处值得考虑——当我们思考政府是否应该鼓励买房时，就更应将这些因素考虑在内。
For example, renters are more mobile. That means they are more likely to accept jobs in another city, or even on the other side of a large metropolis. In addition, it’s hardly wise to put all of one’s life savings into a single, highly leveraged investment in a home — as millions of underwater borrowers today can attest.
比方说，租客搬起家来更容易。这也意味着他们更有可能接受另一个城市，或同一座大都市里另一方位的工作机会。此外，将毕生积蓄全部投入区区一处房产这项高杠杆的投资，也很难称得上明智之举。今天数以百万陷于水深火热中的借款人，就是活生生的例子。
So why the difference in American and Swiss homeownership rates? According to a 2010 study, “Why Do the Swiss Rent?” by Steven C. Bourassa at the University of Louisville and Martin Hoesli at the University of Geneva, tax policy provides much of the explanation. For example, owner-occupants in Switzerland pay income tax on what is known as the imputed rent they derive from living in their own homes — yes, they pay tax on the rent they could be charging themselves. This imputed rent is estimated by looking at market rents for similar properties.
那么，为什么美国和瑞士的自有住房率相差如此之大呢？2010年，路易斯维尔大学(University of Louisville)的史蒂文C·布拉萨(Steven C. Bourassa)和日内瓦大学(University of Geneva)的马丁·霍伊斯里(Martin Hoesli)对税收政策进行了一项研究，这项研究很能说明问题。具体说来，在瑞士，房主如果居住在自有房里，他们必须根据住在自己家所产生的估算租金(imputed tax)来缴纳所得税——没错，这就相当于把他们可向自己收取的房租作为一种收入来征收所得税。估算租金的数额，参考近似房产的不动产市场租金而定。
In the United States, taxation of imputed rent was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1934. (Britain tried such a tax but abandoned it in 1963.) And, given the likely resistance to any new tax, it is highly unlikely that the idea could re-emerge anytime soon, however sensible it might be. But we do have the option of cutting back on government incentives to own rather than rent.
而在美国，对估算租金收税的政策于1934年就被最高法院否决（这样的政策在英国也试行过，但在1963年被废除）。而且，考虑到征收任何形式的新税都有可能受到抵制，这样的政策不管多么明智，短期内也都不大可能被重新推出。但是我们还是有其它选择余地的，那就是削减政府推行的鼓励买房而非租房的政策力度。
Beyond tax policy, we need to look at landlord-tenant law. Mr. Bourassa and Mr. Hoesli contend that Switzerland’s law in this area is relatively attractive, compared with those of other countries. In the United States, it is administered by 50 separate states, so treatment of renters is confusing to national economic commentators. The law, of course, should offer congenial ways to resolve disputes between landlords and tenants. But it should also ensure that people’s various concerns about renting — about possible evictions and rent increases, for example, — are handled well.
除税收政策外，房屋租赁法(landlord-tenant law)也是我们需要斟酌的对象。布拉萨和霍伊斯里认为，瑞士在这方面的法律跟其它国家相比是很宽松的。而在美国，50个州在此政策上各行其是，所以在针对租客的举措上，国家的经济评论员们也十分困惑。房屋租赁法固然应当为房东与租客间的纠纷提供适宜的解决之道，但它也应为租客提供保障，使他们关注的退租风险、租金上涨等租房相关问题得以妥善处理。
There was a revolution in American landlord-tenant law in the 1960s and ’70s, focusing on the inequities facing minority groups. But since 1972, there has been no major update of the Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act issued by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. Perhaps there should be another revolution in this body of law, focused on making renting more rewarding to people of every background and income level.
美国的房屋租赁法在上个世纪六、七十年代有过一次改革，以解决少数民族面临的不平等问题。但是自1972年以来，统一各州法律全国代表大会（National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws，以下简称统一法律委员会）颁布的《统一住宅租赁法》(Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act)就再也没有大规模更新过。或许这部法律还应该再改革一次，使租房对于各个阶层、各个收入水平的民众来说都更具吸引力。
Last week, it was good to see that one agenda item for the commissioners, meeting in Boston, was to discuss proposals to revise the law to make the rental process work better.
可喜的是，上周（2013年7月7日当周——译注），统一法律委员会在波士顿开会的议程之一，就是讨论修改这部法律的提案，目的正是改善租赁流程。
We should also remember that a goal of “Own Your Own Home Day” was to emphasize thrift. And it is still true today that most people don’t save enough. In a 2011 paper, James M. Poterba of M.I.T., Steven F. Venti of Dartmouth and David A. Wise of Harvard showed that retirement saving in most American households was inadequate and that most households nearing retirement in 2008 had most of their wealth in home equity.
还有一点，我们不要忘记：当初设立“有房日”的初衷就是为了倡导勤俭。而且时至今日，大多数人在存钱这一问题上依然不够努力。麻省理工学院(MIT)的詹姆斯M·波特巴(James M. Poterba)、达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth)的史蒂文F·文蒂(Steven F. Venti)和哈佛大学(Harvard)的大卫·A·怀斯(David A. Wise)在2011年联合发表的一篇论文中表示，大多数美国家庭的退休存款都不充足；2008年，大多数有成员接近退休年龄的家庭，都把多数财富投进了房产。
Many people don’t save much unless a regular schedule of mortgage repayment, which builds home equity, enforces it. The 2011 paper argued that the home-equity portion of saving tends to be conserved until very late in life after retirement, thus providing insurance against the risk of living longer than expected.
很多人都不会主动存很多钱，除非有定期的按揭还款计划逼得他们不得不这样做。房屋资产就是在按揭还款中积累起来的。上文提到的2011年论文指出，在购房者退休步入暮年之前，其用于房屋资产积累的储蓄往往较为保守，以便建立自我保障，防范自身寿命超出预期的风险。
THUS, encouraging homeownership in the past encouraged better saving plans. And yet the Swiss, without such encouragement, manage to have a high household saving rate. Our national policy needs to take away much of the enormous subsidy to homeownership — but if and when it does so, it will have to find some other way to promote proper saving.
总之，过去鼓励拥有房产，其实就是在鼓励人们努力存钱。而瑞士虽然没有美国这样的刺激手段，但其家庭存款率依然很高。我们的国家政策需要大幅削减对买房的巨额补贴。但如果真的这么做，那时就必须寻找其它方式鼓励人们合理存钱。