If Shinzo Abe and Mario Draghi were being compensated by investment banks rather than taxpayers, they would both be looking forward to some pretty hefty year-end bonuses.
假使给安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)发薪水的不是纳税人，而是投资银行，那他们都有望拿到极其丰厚的年终奖。
Mr. Abe, the prime minister of Japan, and Mr. Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, were responsible for policies that helped deliver huge gains to stock market investors in 2013.
2013年，日本首相安倍晋三和欧洲央行行长德拉吉推出的政策帮助股市投资者获得了巨额利润。
How many hedge fund managers can boast 56.7 percent gains? That was how much Tokyo’s Nikkei average rose in 2013, thanks in large part to Mr. Abe’s aggressive stimulus policies intended to shake Japan out of its economic torpor. It was the Nikkei 225’s best performance in 40 years.
有多少对冲基金经理人能实现56.7%的盈利呢?这就是东京基准日经指数(Nikkei average)在2013年的涨幅，这种好转大部分应归功于安倍晋三实施的激进刺激政策，其目的是让日本摆脱经济停滞。前述涨幅是日经225指数(Nikkei 225)40年来最好的表现。
And who would have thought a year ago that the best-performing stock markets in Europe would include Greece, up 28.1 percent during the year, and Ireland, up 33.6 percent? Much of those gains, in countries that have been among Europe’s most troubled, can be attributed to Mr. Draghi’s success in convincing investors that the European Central Bank would not allow the euro zone to break apart — though improvement in the Irish economy and signs of stability in Greece also played a big role.
一年以前，谁能想到希腊和爱尔兰股市能在欧洲表现最好的股市中占据一席之地？前者的股市在去年上扬了28.1%，后者则上扬了33.6%。这两国都是欧洲经济形势最严峻的国家，其股市的大部分增长都应归功于德拉吉成功地说服了投资者，让他们相信欧洲央行不会允许欧元区分裂——当然，爱尔兰经济的改善和希腊局势的稳定迹象也同样居功至伟。
“This year has marked the end of the financial crisis,” said David Thébault, head of quantitative sales trading at Global Equities in Paris. “Now we’re beginning to see recovery in the real economy. The U.S. is growing and the European economy is stabilizing.”
位于巴黎的全球证券(Global Equities)定量销售交易主管戴维·泰博(David Thébault)说，“今年标志着金融危机的结束。现在我们开始看到，实体经济正在复苏。美国经济正在增长，欧洲经济也趋于稳定。”
Yet the unexpected swiftness of the rebounds in equity markets, which far outpace actual economic performance, has also created a palpable nervousness among investors. Gains that robust will be almost impossible to repeat in 2014, and could easily be reversed, analysts say.
然而，证券市场反弹得出人意料地迅速，远远超出了经济的实际表现，这也在投资者中引发了明显的不安。分析人士表示，如此强劲的增长几乎不可能在2014年重现，而且很容易发生逆转。
To many investors, the list of perils in the year ahead is long. It includes a resurgence of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and global repercussions from the withdrawal of monetary stimulus in the United States.
对许多投资者而言，接下来的这一年带来了诸多风险。其中包括欧洲主权债务危机死灰复燃，以及美国撤销货币刺激政策造成的全球后果。
Analysts are particularly concerned about the potential for disappointment in Japan if the government does not follow up with measures intended to make the economy perform better, such as allowing more competition in the energy business.
分析人士尤为担忧的是，如果日本政府不继续推出意在改善经济表现的举措，比如允许能源行业引入更多的竞争，日本的表现就可能令人失望。
“The verdict on Abenomics is still out,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist of the German bank Berenberg, said in a note to clients, referring to Mr. Abe’s economic policies. “Without serious reforms, Abenomics will be little more than another flash in the pan, a brief footnote in Japan’s long slide into fiscal oblivion.”
“安倍经济学(Abenomics)的最终效果还未见分晓，”德国贝伦贝格银行(Berenberg)首席经济学家霍尔格·施米尔丁(Holger Schmieding)说，安倍经济学指的是安倍晋三推出的经济政策。“如果没有重大改革，安倍经济学将只是又一场空欢喜，是日本滑入财政崩溃的悠长进程中的简短注脚。”
China provides a reminder of how a onetime star performer can disappoint. Though it is the world’s fastest-growing major economy, China can also lay claim to a more dubious superlative: home of the worst-performing stock market in Asia.
中国提供了一个实例，警示曾经的明星可以让人多么地失望。中国虽然是全球增长最快的主要经济体，但却同时创造了一项不那么光彩的纪录，成为全亚洲表现最糟糕的股市。
The benchmark Shanghai composite index ended 2013 on a low note, closing at 2,115.98 points, a decline of 6.8 percent from a year ago.
2013年，基准指数上证综指表现低迷，最终以2115.98点收盘，比去年下降6.8%。
In general, emerging markets lost some of the glamour they have enjoyed in recent years, when they often made stocks in developed countries look staid. The Shanghai stock market’s performance was slightly worse than the 6.7 percent annual decrease of the main share index in Thailand, where street protests have seized the nation’s capital for weeks. In Indonesia, the main index finished down 0.98 percent from a year earlier, as investors grew concerned about lofty stock valuations amid signs that growth was slowing.
总体说来，新兴市场失去了一些魅力，尽管最近几年，它们经常使发达国家的股市看起来毫无生气。上海股市的表现稍逊于泰国股市，后者的主要股指下降了6.7%。数周以来，街头抗议活动遏制了泰国的资本市场。印度尼西亚的主要股指比上一年下跌了0.98%，原因是有迹象表明经济增长正在放缓，投资者越来越担心较高的股票估值。
Other Asian markets, however, followed Japan higher in 2013.
不过，其他亚洲市场都和日本一样，在2013年出现了增长。
Chinese stocks slumped despite signs that the country’s policy makers have been acting to rejuvenate the country’s languid financial markets. On Tuesday, five companies in China announced that they had received approval to conduct public share offerings — the first batch of deals to be approved since regulators announced on Nov. 30 that they would resume share sales after a yearlong ban.
有迹象表明中国的决策者一直在采取行动，促使该国低迷的金融市场恢复活力，尽管如此，中国的股市仍然暴跌。周二，中国的五家公司宣布他们获准进行公开募股。自监管机构在11月30日宣布结束持续一年的禁令，恢复新股销售以来，这是首批获得批准的交易计划。
Next to Japan, Europe was the surprise gainer. But as in Japan, the gains threaten to evaporate if early signs of recovery prove ephemeral or if policy makers lose their will to make politically unpopular changes.
欧洲仅次于日本，成为了意外的增长之地。但就像在日本一样，如果事实证明经济复苏的早期迹象只是昙花一现，或者决策者失去了推行政治上不受欢迎的改革的决心，这些增长就可能会蒸发。
The Stoxx 600, a Pan-European equity benchmark, was trading on Tuesday at its high for the year, racking up a gain of 17.4 percent. The DAX in Germany ended the year up 25.5 percent, while France’s CAC 40 rose 18 percent despite many doubts about the competitiveness of the French economy. The FTSE 100 in London was ahead 14.4 percent.
周二，全欧基准指数Stoxx 600达到了一年来的最高水平，累计涨幅为17.4%。德国DAX指数的年涨幅达25.5%。虽然很多人质疑法国经济的竞争力，法国CAC 40指数的涨幅仍然达到了18%。英国FTSE 100指数则增长14.4%。
Many investors remain optimistic about prospects for euro zone indexes, in part because of increased exports of products like German cars or French luxury goods to the resurgent United States. Analysts surveyed by Reuters expect European shares to gain about 14 percent in 2014.
很多投资者依然对欧元区指数的前景保持乐观态度，部分是因为美国经济复苏，德国汽车及法国奢侈品等对美出口商品出现增加。接受路透社(Reuters)调查的分析人士预测，欧洲股市2014年将上涨14%左右。
Hugues Le Maire, managing director of Diamant Bleu Gestion, an asset manager in Paris, said that growth in gross domestic product across the developed world would replace central bank stimulus as the impetus for stock market gains in 2014. “It will be the G.D.P. growth year, the economic results year,” he said.
巴黎资产管理公司蓝钻石基金公司(Diamant Bleu Gestion)总经理于格·勒梅尔(Hugues Le Maire)表示，2014年，发达国家国内生产总值的增长将会代替央行的刺激举措，成为股市上扬的动力。他说，“明年将是国内生产总值增长之年，收获经济效益的一年。”
Mr. Le Maire expressed concern over signs of continued fragility in Europe. Lending to consumers and businesses, for example, continues to decline. Many economists are warning of the potential for deflation, a broad, sustained decline in prices that can destroy corporate profits and jobs.
勒梅尔对欧洲经济持续脆弱的迹象表示担心。例如，消费者及公司获得的贷款仍在减少。很多经济学家都提出了警告，称可能会出现通货紧缩和大范围的物价持续下滑，由此减少公司利润，影响就业。
Faced with resistance from Germany, the European Central Bank has been more restrained than counterparts in Japan and the United States in taking measures to head off such threats. As a result, Mr. Le Maire tempered his generally upbeat outlook with a warning: “Be very careful about any risks that could occur.”
与日本及美国的央行相比，面对德国阻力的欧洲央行(European Central Bank)在采取措施防范此类风险方面更为克制。有鉴于此，勒梅尔调整了总体上比较乐观的观点，警告称，“要格外小心，防范可能出现的任何风险。”