BEIJING — In its final hours before being butchered, a chicken deserves to be reasonably comfortable and relatively stress-free. This is the message from China’s first official recommendations to the poultry industry, recently issued by Shandong Province, on how to slaughter the animals.
北京——在被宰杀前的最后几个小时里，一只鸡应该获得相对舒适、轻松的对待。这是中国第一份针对肉鸡屠宰的行业规范传达出的信息。这份行业规范不久前由山东政府通过。
The guidelines, which are not mandatory, are motivated at least as much by commercial considerations as by concerns for animal welfare. Shandong is China’s leading producer of chickens, but traces of damage to the birds, like broken limbs or blood clots in the meat, have hurt exports.
官方提出的这些不具强制性的指导意见，其背后的商业考虑至少和动物福利的考虑同样多。山东是中国最大的鸡肉生产地，但鸡受伤的迹象，如骨头折断或肉中有淤血，影响了出口。
Still, animal welfare advocates are praising the standards.
但动物福利倡导人士依然对相关标准表示赞赏。
“Such specific guidelines,” said Jeff Zhou, China representative of Compassion in World Farming, a British organization that campaigns to end factory farming. “I’m very grateful that they did this in Shandong.”
“非常细化，”旨在终结工厂化饲养的英国组织“世界农场动物福利协会”(Compassion in World Farming)中国区代表周尊国(Jeff Zhou)说。“我很感谢山东做了这个标准。”
The guidelines, according to People’s Daily, list the steps leading to slaughter and detail for each the recommended procedures to ensure that the chicken’s death is as painless as possible.
据《人民日报》报道，山东的屠宰规范列出了宰杀前的步骤，并详细介绍每个步骤中推荐采取的处理方法，以确保鸡在被宰杀时尽可能没有痛苦。
For example, the guidelines advise against transporting a live chicken longer than three hours. A chicken should be held with both hands, not seized by a single leg or wing. Before being killed, the bird should be anesthetized by being gassed or having its head dipped into electrified water. The guidelines also recommend using a massaging pad to support the chicken’s breast as the birds are moved on an assembly line to be stunned.
比如，指导规范建议，运输活鸡的过程不超过三个小时；抓鸡时要用两只手，不能抓单只翅膀或腿部；宰杀前应利用气体，或是将其头部浸入通电的水中，使其失去知觉。指导方针还建议在通过流水线将其“致昏”时，使用抚摸板支撑鸡的胸部。
Humane slaughter alone does not remove all the cruelty that animals in intensive factory farming experience, Mr. Zhou said, but the guidelines address an important part of it. “It’s a step in the right direction,” he said.
周尊国表示，单是人道宰杀并不会消除工厂化集中饲养动物经历的所有虐待，但相关指导方针针对的是其中的一个重要部分。“肯定是一个进步，”他说。
The organization is working with its Chinese partners, including the International Cooperation Committee of Animal Welfare, a government-backed research institute, to push for more humane practices in China and has released similar recommendations for raising, shipping and slaughtering pigs, cattle and sheep.
该组织正在与中国机构合作，包括政府支持的研究机构动物福利国际合作委员会，推动在中国采取更人道的做法。同时，该组织也针对猪、牛、羊的饲养、运输和宰杀公布了类似的建议。
Although the Shandong guidelines are China’s first for the slaughter of chickens, procedures to reduce animal suffering as well as improve meat quality are being practiced elsewhere and for other farm animals. Major slaughterhouses in Beijing, for example, already stun chickens by dipping their heads into electrified water, according to The Beijing News.
尽管山东省的指导方针是中国首次针对鸡的宰杀出台指导规范，但其他地方已经采用了针对其他家禽的规章，以便减少动物的痛苦并改善肉质。比如，据《新京报》报道，北京主要的屠宰场采用了将鸡的头部浸入通电的水里致晕的方式。
The city of Zhengzhou, the provincial capital of Henan, requires slaughterhouses to allow pigs to rest at least 12 hours after being transported to the slaughterhouse before they are killed, according to a 2010 report in Dahe, a local newspaper. Violations carry a penalty of up to 50,000 renminbi, or about $7,500.
大河网2010年刊登的一篇报道称，河南省会郑州要求屠宰场在把猪运至屠宰场后，允许猪在被宰杀前休息至少12个小时。违反规定者最高可面临5万元人民币的罚款。
As more slaughterhouses adopt procedures for the humane handling of livestock, Chinese meat may find greater acceptance in high-end markets at home and abroad, said Sun Jingxin, a food science professor at Qingdao Agricultural University and the author of the Shandong guidelines.
青岛农业大学食品科学教授、这份屠宰规范的主持制定者孙京新表示，随着更多屠宰场采用人道的牲畜处理措施，中国的肉类产品可能会在国内外高端市场获得更多的认可。
With an eye to European consumers concerned about animal welfare, Mr. Sun said of preferred methods for stunning the chickens, “we adopted the high-voltage system used in the E.U., instead of the U.S.-style low-voltage treatment.”
针对关心动物福利的欧洲消费者，孙京新说到了首选的电致晕方式，“我们推荐高压电致昏，这是参考了欧洲的做法，而不是美国的低压处理。”
“The E.U. way is considered more humane, even though it may result in lower meat quality,” Mr. Sun said in an interview.
“欧盟的方式从福利角度来说更好，尽管鸡肉品质不如低压致昏，”孙京新在接受采访时说。
China is the world’s second-leading producer of broiler meat, after the United States, producing 13.4 million tons last year, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. But it ranked only fifth in exports, with 401,000 tons that year.
美国农业部的数据显示，中国仅位于美国之后，是世界第二大鸡肉生产国，去年生产鸡肉1340万吨。但同年，中国鸡肉出口量仅为40.1万吨，名列第五。