BEIJING — Four miners have emerged alive after 36 days trapped 720 feet underground in eastern China, after a huge, intensely reported rescue effort in this country that has been plagued by mine disasters.
北京——四名矿工在地下720英尺（约合220米）深处被困36天后，成功获救。在矿难频发的中国，山东省的这场救援行动受到了新闻媒体的密切关注。
Hundreds of rescuers who had drilled a shaft to the miners and kept them alive cheered and clapped Friday night as the first man winched to the surface weakly raised his arm. Several failed recovery attempts before this one had brought the trapped men to despair.
数以百计的救援人员给被困矿工打通了一条孔道，并让他们保持振作。周五晚上，当被吊起到地面的第一名男子虚弱地举起手臂时，他们鼓掌欢呼。在此次行动之前，多次救援行动都失败了，这让被困矿工陷入了绝望。
The third miner lifted to the surface yelled “Thank you” after he came up, Qilu Net, Shandong’s main state-run news website, reported on Saturday. The rescued men were rushed to a local hospital, accompanied by a crush of reporters and cameras but too weak to speak about their ordeal.
山东主要的官方新闻网站齐鲁网周六报道，第三名升井矿工被救出后高喊“感谢”。在挤作一团的记者和摄像机的跟随下，获救矿工被紧急送去了当地一家医院，但因为太过虚弱，他们无法讲述自己的遭遇。
The four men were among 29 miners caught when a cavernous gypsum mine in Pingyi County, Shandong Province, collapsed on Dec. 25. Eleven were rescued soon after, and one was found dead. The mine’s principal owner, Ma Congbo, committed suicide at the mine two days after it collapsed, drowning himself in a well, state-run media reported.
12月25日，山东省平邑县一座又大又深的石膏矿发生坍塌，包括这四名男子在内的29名矿工被困。不久后，便有11人获救，一人死亡。官方新闻媒体报道，坍塌事件发生两天后，该矿主要负责人马丛波在矿上跳井自杀。
Thirteen miners were still unaccounted for Saturday. The government has said that it will keep searching for them, although hopes that they remain alive appear to be faint.
周六当天，仍有13名矿工下落不明。政府称将继续搜救，不过他们还活着的希望似乎颇为渺茫。
“In all my 30 years doing this, this was the most trying and the most difficult rescue,” said Du Bingjian, a mine disaster expert who was brought in to help.
“在我从事这一行的30年里，这是最难熬、最困难的救援，”被请去协助救援的矿难专家杜兵建说。
The rescuers drilled a new shaft to retrieve miners deep below the surface, rather than clearing shafts already in place, following an innovative technique used to save 33 miners trapped in Chile in 2010 and nine in Pennsylvania in 2002, Chinese media reports said.
中国媒体报道，为了把被困矿工从地下深处救回地面，救援人员采取了一项创新手法，重新挖掘了一条孔道，而不是清理已有的矿井。2010年智利33名被困矿工获救和2002年宾夕法尼亚州九名矿工获救时，使用的便是这种手法。
But there were many setbacks before the triumph.
但要想获得胜利，还有很多困难。
At first, the rescuers were unsure whether anyone had survived underground after the mine tunnels tumbled down and flooded. But after five days of drilling exploratory holes, they established contact with the trapped men and created a small shaft to send down food, medicine and other supplies, and to keep in phone contact.
起初，救援人员不确定巷道塌方并被水淹后，地下是否还有幸存者。但在挖掘了五天探测孔道后，他们与被困矿工建立了联系，并挖了一口小井，以便往下送食物、药品和其他供给，同时保持电话联系。
The men huddled in an area of about 75 square feet, where they subsisted on milk, water and bread made from rice, sorghum and peanuts, meanwhile fearing that fresh collapses or flooding could kill them.
四人挤在一个大约75平方英尺（约合7平方米）大小的地方，靠牛奶、水和用大米、高粱和花生做的饼维持生命。被困期间，他们一直害怕新的塌方或是进水事件会要了他们的命。
“Shelter in a safe place,” a rescuer on the surface told them, according to China National Radio. “First drink your milk, keep healthy, and sooner or later we’ll be able to rescue you.”
据中央人民广播电台报道，地面上的一名救援人员对他们说，“你们躲到安全的地方，先喝奶，把身体保持好，我们早晚能救上你们来。”
But several attempts to drill a wider shaft to haul the men out failed, as drills failed or tumbling earth and flooding choked off the holes, which had to pass through difficult, crumbly sandstone and limestone. As days turned into weeks, the miners thought they would die entombed in the mine, said Mr. Du, the rescue expert.
为了把他们救出来，救援人员多次试图挖一口更宽的矿井，但都失败了，原因或是工具出故障，或是掉落下来的土或洪水把洞堵住。那些洞必须经过棘手、易碎的砂岩和石灰岩。救援专家杜兵建说，随着过去的时间从以天为单位变成以周为单位，这些矿工渐渐以为他们会被埋在矿下。
“They were all wondering whether up on the surface we’d give up on rescuing them,” he said, according to China National Radio. “When we called, they’d cry, and down in the mine you could hear the sound of howling and wailing.”
他在中央人民广播电台的节目中称，“他们总认为上面是不是对他们要放弃救援了，通话的时候他们哭了，井下有听到嚎啕大哭的声音。”
As a month of entrapment approached, the men told the rescuers: “Tell it to us straight, we know that there’s no hope of rescue.”
被困近一个月时，他们对救援人说：“你们就直说吧，我们也知道了，肯定是没有希望救了。”
But about a thousand police officers, government workers and other rescuers on the surface kept trying. They sent down video of their operation to reassure the men that they had not been forgotten. They also passed down playing cards.
但地面上的大约一千名警察、政府工作人员和其他救援人员一直在努力。他们把救援行动的视频送了下去，让被困人员放心，他们没有被遗忘。他们还向井下送去了扑克牌。
A week ago, engineers succeeded in drilling a shaft close to the miners. But an accumulation of mud and rocks still lay between the men and their potential rescue. The engineers sent down drills, picks and other tools, and asked the miners to help clear the passage. By Friday night, the engineers decided that the shaft was safe enough to attempt a rescue.
一周前，工程师成功地在被困矿工附近钻通了一条孔道。但堆积的泥浆仍横亘在被困人员和救援人员之间。工程师投送了气泵凿岩机、羊镐和其他工具，让被困矿工帮助清理通道。到周五晚上，工程师们断定新挖的孔道足够安全，可以尝试救人了。
The trapped men — Zhao Zhicheng, Li Qiusheng, Guang Qingji and Hua Mingxi — were lifted one by one to the surface in a harness, each greeted by a burst of camera flashes after more than 860 hours deprived of sunlight. To protect their eyes, they were blindfolded, and on Saturday they were recovering in the hospital, where doctors said they were in stable condition.
四名被困矿工——赵治诚、李秋生、管庆吉、华明喜——系上了消防救生吊带，被一个接一个地吊到了地面上。不见天日地度过了860多个小时后，每个人升井时都会成为摄像机追逐的焦点。为了保护眼睛，他们的眼睛都被蒙上了。周六当天，他们在医院休养，医生称他们情况稳定。
The four survivors are “mentally alert, and there is hope that they can leave hospital before the Spring Festival,” Xinhua reported, referring to the Lunar New Year holiday that starts on the eve of Feb. 7.
四名幸存者“神志清晰，有望于春节前出院，”新华社报道称。春节指的是2月7日晚开始的农历新年。