After shouldering loads up and down steep hills here for 35 years, Niu Dancheng knows the exact number of stairs to the Yangtze River docks where he often finds work as a porter. There are 128 to Dock 8 at Chaotianmen port, he said, which he had just descended with 90 pounds of roasted duck for a cruise ship.
牛丹成靠肩挑背扛的方式，沿着这里陡峭的山坡运送货物上山下山已有35年时间。他知道去长江沿岸的码头要走多少个台阶。他经常以搬运工的身份在那些码头揽活。他说，朝天门港口的八号码头有128个台阶。他刚刚从那些台阶上下来，为一艘游轮送了90磅（约合41公斤）的烤鸭。
Mr. Niu, 62, may belong to the last generation of itinerant porters, known as “bang-bang,” who have become a symbol of Chongqing, a city that clings to the towering hills where the Jialing River flows into the mighty Yangtze in southwest China.
62岁的牛丹成可能属于最后一代流动搬运工，又叫“棒棒”。他们已经成了重庆这座城市的象征。位于中国西南部的重庆依着高耸的山峦而建，嘉陵江在这里汇入磅礴的长江。
The streets here once teemed with a “bang-bang army,” as residents call the porters. Now they are disappearing.
这里的街头一度满是“棒棒军”的身影。“棒棒军”是当地居民对这些搬运工的称呼。现在，他们正在消失。
“The next generation will never carry one of these,” Mr. Niu said, tapping his sturdy bamboo shoulder pole or bangzi, whose name inspired the popular nickname for the porters. “Our work is vanishing.”
“下一代肯定不会扛了,”牛丹成一边说一边轻轻拍了拍他那根结实的竹扁担。这种扁担又叫棒子，这些搬运工流传甚广的绰号就来源于它们。“我们这个职业在消失。”
The decline of the porters is, in miniature, the story of social and population shifts reshaping China’s economy. The economy is slowing, but the flow of rural migrants seeking work in cities is also slowing, and those migrants are aging. Younger, better educated migrants often reject such poorly paid, harsh work, and modern transportation has cut demand for the backbreaking job of hauling loads up and down Chongqing’s hills.
这类搬运工的减少，正是社会和人口变迁重塑中国经济的缩影。中国经济正在放缓，而农民工进城务工的进程也在放缓。那些农民工正在老去。更年轻、受教育程度更高的农民工通常不愿干这种收入菲薄的辛苦活，现代运输也降低了重庆对上坡下坎送货这种艰苦工作的需求。
These changes have left the “bang-bang army” shrinking, aging and struggling economically.
这些变化致使“棒棒军”规模缩减、年龄老化、经济困顿。
“It’s tough being a bang-bang now,” said Hu Zuhua, 50, who has worked as a porter for a decade. “Sometimes you don’t even make enough to pay for meals. The couriers are taking all our business.”
“现在棒棒不好当，”50岁的胡祖华（音）说，他当了10年的搬运工。“有时候连饭钱都赚不够。快递员把我们的活全抢走了。”
He Changlin, a filmmaker who recorded the world of the porters in a documentary and book called “The Last Bang-bang,” estimated that their numbers have shrunk from as many as 300,000 in the 1990s to no more than 10,000 in urban Chongqing today. Most are in their 50s or older.
电影制作人何长林用一部名叫《最后的棒棒》的纪录片和一本同名书籍记录了这些搬运工的世界。他估计，他们的规模已经从90年代的多达30万人，减少到了现在重庆城区不超过1万人。其中大部分人的年龄都在50岁以上。
“This is a business that is destined to disappear and it won’t be long before it does,” Mr. He said. “It’s a business steadily being made obsolete by a combination of economic development and the laws of nature. As the Chinese economy rapidly develops and forms of transportation diversify, they no longer have a role to play.”
“棒棒肯定要消失，时间不会太久，”何长林说。“这行在社会的发展和自然相结合下，正在被逐渐淘汰。随着中国经济快速发展，他们不再有用武之地了。”
For decades, residents never had to go far to find porters, who for a dollar or two heaved food, clothes and other loads from door to door.
在数十年里，民众从来不用走多远，便能找到他们。这些搬运工会以一两美元的价钱搬运吃的、穿的和其他货物。
“There were so many bang-bang, they’d worry that we’d fall into the river and drown,” Mr. Niu said, drawing on a cigarette as he rested between jobs. “They don’t have to worry about that now.”
“以前这儿哪儿哪儿都是棒棒的，都担心棒棒多的能掉到江里去淹了，”牛丹成在工作间隙吸着烟说。“现在就没这担心了。”
Chongqing, a sprawling, industrial metropolis, grew from trade up and down the Yangtze River, and long relied on brute human strength to haul loads. But demand for the porters took off in the 1980s, when Deng Xiaoping’s market reforms gave urban Chinese residents more spending power and let farmers enter cities to find work, unleashing a wave of migrants desperate for jobs at a time when the working-age population was bulging.
作为一座面积广阔的工业化城市，重庆是以长江沿岸的贸易为基础发展起来的，长期依赖人力搬运货物。但在上世纪80年代，对这种搬运工的需求迅速增加。当时，邓小平发起的市场改革增加了中国城镇居民的消费能力，并允许农民进城找工作，在劳动年龄人口激增之际释放了一波渴望就业机会的农民工。
Villagers from the steep hill country around Chongqing found a living using their stamina to carry loads in the city, and the streets and docks teemed with men in faded blue coats and canvas shoes clutching poles and bundles of rope.
来自重庆各地大山里的村民，通过靠力气送货在这座城市谋生。过去，街边和码头满是穿着已腿色的蓝色外套和帆布鞋，紧握着扁担和绳子的男子。
Bang-bang porters popped up in many cities, but it was only in Chongqing and other nearby towns that they grew so numerous that they became part of the fabric of daily life. At their peak, they became a symbol of the city, celebrated as humble, salt-of-the-earth workers in songs and even in a popular television comedy-drama in 1997.
棒棒在很多城市都出现过，但人数多到使棒棒成为日常生活的一部分这种现象，只在重庆和附近其他城镇有。鼎盛时期，他们成了这座城市的象征，在众多歌曲，甚至还有1997年的一部颇受欢迎的电视喜剧中，被颂扬为谦逊、高尚的劳动者。
“You’re tremendous,” Premier Li Keqiang said when he met a group of porters in Chongqing in 2014. “Each penny is earned with sweat, a symbol of the hard-working Chinese people.”
“你们很了不起！”中国总理李克强2014年在重庆遇到一群搬运工时说。“每一分钱都是流汗挣来的，是中国人民勤劳的象征。”
But many porters said the sentimental images belied their hard lives. Even after decades working in the city, few felt it was their home, and middle-class residents often winced at the sight of the ragged men waiting for work.
但很多搬运工表示，那些深情的画面掩盖了他们生活的艰辛。即使在这座城市工作了几十年，很少有人觉得这里是他们的家。中产阶级市民看到正在等活的衣衫褴褛的搬运工时，常会皱眉头。
“They look down on us; only a few people show us respect,” said Tang Zhengqu, who has worked as a porter for 20 years. “If you ask for five yuan for a job, they’ll say one yuan, as if you’re a beggar, not a worker.” Five yuan is about 75 cents.
“他们都看不起我们，很少人真的尊重我们，”当了20年搬运工的唐正渠说。“一个活你要五元，老板们就说给你一元，就好像你跟乞丐似的，而不是做工的，靠力气吃饭。”五元人民币大约相当于75美分。
In recent years, Chongqing’s economy has steamed ahead while other parts of China have slowed. A complex of malls and apartments is rising on the hill where Mr. Niu works. Nearby, the iconic Liberation Square is crowded with shops for foreign luxury brands. Chongqing has become one of the fastest growing parts of the country; officially its gross domestic product grew by 11 percent last year, propelled by industries such as motor vehicle manufacturing and electronics.
近年来，尽管中国其他地区经济放缓，重庆的经济却加速发展。在牛丹成工作的那座小山上，一个含购物中心和公寓楼的建筑群拔地而起。附近，标志性的解放广场周围，开满了外国奢侈品牌的门店。重庆已经成了中国增长最快的地区之一。官方的数据显示，在机动车制造和电子等行业的推动下，重庆去年国内生产总值的增速达11%。
Even so, porters said business has fallen off. Many said they now made $300 to $450 a month, about half of what they could earn a few years ago. Many residents now have cars. Courier vans and bikes have also cut into the porters’ business, as have online shopping and neighborhood supermarkets close to residents’ homes.
即便如此，搬运工还是说生意已经下滑。很多人说他们现在一个月只能挣300到450美元，大约是几年前的一半。很多市民现在都有车了。快递公司的箱式货车和摩托车，以及网购和开在市民家附近的社区超市，也侵蚀了搬运工的生意。
“I couldn’t carry loads like that, not ever,” said Peng Xiaohua, a 35-year-old courier with an electric three-wheel scooter parked near the garment markets where porters gather. He said he quit his job as a cook because he saw more promise in e-commerce and its demand for fast couriers.
“我可扛不了这些货，怎么都扛不了，”35岁的快递员彭晓华说。他把一辆电动三轮车停在服装市场附近，那里是搬运工的聚集地。他说自己辞去了厨师的工作，因为他认为电子商务及其对快递的需求指向了更好的前途。
“Those old guys can only carry things up and down the hills,” he said “ Couriers are doing well, because we can deliver parcels anywhere.”
“那些岁数大的人只能扛着东西上下坡，”他说。“快递现在生意好，因为我们哪里都能送到。”
The porters often start work at dawn, when they gather at markets and docks hoping for jobs making deliveries. Much of their day involves waiting for customers to yell or phone for help. As shops close in the afternoon, the porters drift back to their hot, cramped dormitories and rooms, which they often share with dozens of other porters, saving money to send to their families in their home villages.
搬运工通常黎明时分便开始工作。他们会聚集在市场或码头，希望找到送货的活。一天中，他们很多时候都在等着顾客用直接喊人或是打电话的方式让他们去帮忙。下午随着商店关门，搬运工回到闷热、狭小的宿舍和房间。他们通常和其他几十名搬运工同住，把钱省下来寄给留在农村的家人。
“This is the job you take when there is no other,” said Tan Wancheng, a 51-year old porter waiting for work outside a garment market in Chaotianmen, a raucous shopping neighborhood near the city’s main docks.
“这种工作是没有其他工作时才会做的，”51岁的谭万成（音）说。他正在朝天门的一个服装市场外等活。朝天门是一个购物区，位于该市主要的码头附近，人声鼎沸。
He shares a dormitory with 20 or more other men, and often subsists on rice and pumpkin porridge, he said. “Now the youngsters go out to become security guards or couriers or construction workers, anything but a bang-bang,” he said. “I want to change jobs too, but I can’t.”
他说自己和其他20个或更多的人同住一间宿舍，经常只吃米饭和南瓜粥。“现在年轻人都出去当保安、快递员或建筑工人，就是没人当棒棒，”他说。“我也想换工作，但没那个能力。”
In boastful moments, Mr. Niu has said he would work until he was 70. Like many porters, he is about five feet tall with exceedingly brawny limbs. Even so, he appeared drained after hauling two loads to the dock, for which he had made the equivalent of $3.
吹牛时，牛丹成说自己要干到70岁。和很多搬运工一样，他大约五英尺（约合1.67米）高，四肢非常发达。即便如此，在给码头送了两趟货后，他似乎精疲力尽。他跑那两趟挣的钱，相当于三美元。
“It’s not enough, not even for the day’s meals,” he said. “If I can’t go on, I’ll go back to my village and live in an old-age home. I won’t miss this life.”
“现在挣的根本不够，每天饭钱都不够，”他说。“我要是干不动了，就回老家村子去，住家里的老房子里。我不会想念这种生活。”