LOS ANGELES — The 57th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday were a mixture of old songs, new faces and upsets, as Sam Smith, a 22-year-old British singer barely known to American audiences a year ago, won three of the top four prizes, and Beck became the dark-horse victor of album of the year.
洛杉矶——周日举行的第57届年度格莱美奖上混合了老歌、新面孔与搅局者，年仅22岁的英国歌手山姆·史密斯(Sam Smith)赢得了四项最重要大奖中的三项，仅仅在一年前，他在美国还罕有人知，而贝克(Beck)成为黑马，获得了年度专辑大奖。
Mr. Smith took best new artist as well as both record and song of the year for “Stay With Me,” a moody, lovelorn ballad that became a smash on pop radio stations.
史密斯获得了年度最佳艺人，他的《留在我身边》(Stay With Me)获得年度最佳制作与最佳歌曲，这是一首忧郁的失恋歌曲，在流行音乐电台大受欢迎。
“I want to thank the man who this record is about,” Mr. Smith said when accepting the prize for record of the year. “Thank you so much for breaking my heart, ’cause you got me four Grammys.”
“我想感谢这首歌里唱到的那个男人，”史密斯在接受年度最佳录音奖时说。“谢谢你伤了我的心，因为你我才获得了四项格莱美奖。”
Besides those awards, Mr. Smith also won best vocal album, for “In the Lonely Hour,” one of last year’s biggest hits. The record of the year prize is for the recording of a single song, while song of the year is for songwriters.
除了上述奖项，史密斯还因《在孤独的时刻》(In the Lonely Hour)获得最佳演唱专辑，这首歌是去年最流行的金曲之一。年度制作奖是奖给歌曲的，年度歌曲奖则是奖给词曲创作者的。
Beck’s win, for “Morning Phase,” was a classic Grammy surprise, as the awards’ voters chose a modest-selling but critically admired album in a rock context over bigger pop hits. Among its competitors were Mr. Smith’s “In the Lonely Hour”; Beyoncé’s self-titled, multimedia album; and Ed Sheeran’s “x,” a hit around the world on streaming services like Spotify. Held at the Staples Center here, the show was broadcast by CBS.
贝克的专辑《上午时段》(Morning Phase)获奖则是格莱美的经典意外，这个奖的投票者选择了这张销量一般，但受到评论界好评的摇滚背景专辑，没有选择大卖的流行专辑。角逐这个奖项的其他专辑还包括史密斯的《在孤独的时刻》、碧昂斯(Beyoncé)的同名多媒体专辑，以及艾德·希兰(Ed Sheeran)的《x》，这首歌通过Spotify等流媒体服务，在全球成为热门金曲。颁奖礼在斯台普斯球馆举行，由CBS台转播。
Speaking to reporters backstage, the country star Dwight Yoakam, who had performed on the show, defended Beck as a worthy recipient. “Beck is genuinely one of the great purveyors of the pure love of music,” Mr. Yoakam said.
乡村歌星德怀特·尤卡姆(Dwight Yoakam)在颁奖礼上献唱，他在后台接受采访时认为贝克理应获奖，“贝克真是音乐真爱的伟大提供者之一，”他说。
In addition to album of the year, “Morning Phase” took best rock album, beating releases by U2, Ryan Adams, Tom Petty and the Black Keys.
除去年度最佳专辑，《上午时段》还击败U2、瑞安·亚当斯(Ryan Adams)、汤姆·佩蒂(Tom Petty)与“黑键”(Black Keys)的专辑，获得年度最佳摇滚专辑奖。
Among the night’s other big winners, Pharrell Williams took home three prizes: “Happy” won best music video and, in a live version, best pop solo performance, while his “G I R L” won best urban contemporary album.
在当晚的诸多赢家之中，法雷尔·威廉姆斯(Pharrell Williams)获得三项大奖：《快乐》(Happy)获得最佳音乐录像奖、其现场版获得最佳流行个人表演奖，他的《G I R L》获得最佳当代城市专辑奖。
Beyoncé, who like Mr. Smith had been up for a total of six awards, also won three: best R&B performance and R&B song, for “Drunk in Love,” and best surround sound album, for “Beyoncé.”
碧昂斯和史密斯一样获得六项提名，最终赢得其中三项：最佳R&B表演奖，以及凭《醉在爱里》(Drunk in Love)获得的最佳R&B歌曲将，以及凭《碧昂斯》获得的最佳环绕声专辑奖。
Accepting the award for best R&B performance, Beyoncé thanked God and her husband, Jay Z, who appears on the track. But she made sure to thank her fans as well, with whom she keeps in constant contact through social media.
在接受最佳R&B表演奖时，碧昂斯感谢了上帝和她的丈夫Jay Z，他也在歌曲中献声。但她也感谢了自己的歌迷们，她在社交媒体上经常与他们互动。
“I’d like to say thank you to my Beyhive,” she said. “Thank you guys for riding so hard.”
“我想向我的歌迷‘Beyhive’们说谢谢，”她说，“谢谢你们那么支持我。”
That sentiment of treasuring the attention of fans and all the ways to reach them was echoed by a number of stars. Miranda Lambert, accepting the prize for best country album, for “Platinum,” thanked her record label and “all the people who get it to the fans.”
许多歌星也同样表达了这种感谢歌迷关注的情绪，以及想办法同歌迷打成一片的心情。因《白金》(Platinum)获得最佳乡村乐专辑的米兰达·兰伯特(Miranda Lambert)感谢了唱片厂牌与“所有让歌迷听到它的人们”。
Kendrick Lamar and Eminem split the four rap trophies. Mr. Lamar, a fast-rising young star who had walked away empty-handed last year, took best performance and song this year for “I.” Eminem won best rap album for “The Marshall Mathers LP 2” and shared best rap/sung collaboration with Rihanna, for “The Monster.”
坎德里克·拉马尔(Kendrick Lamar)与埃米纳姆(Eminem)评分了四项说唱奖。拉马尔是快速崛起的年轻个性，去年一无所获，今年他凭借《I》获得了最佳说唱表演奖和最佳说唱歌曲。艾米纳姆凭借《马歇尔·马瑟斯LP2》(The Marshall Mathers LP 2)获得了最佳说唱专辑奖，并凭《怪物》(The Monster)一曲，同蕾哈娜(Rihanna)分享最佳说唱/演唱合作奖。
No clear winner emerged in the country field, either. Besides Ms. Lambert’s prize for best album, Glen Campbell’s “I’m Not Gonna Miss You” took best song, Carrie Underwood’s “Something in the Water” won best solo performance and the Band Perry took home best duo or group performance for “Gentle on My Mind.”
在乡村乐奖项里也没有明显的大赢家，除了兰伯特获得最佳专辑外，格伦·坎贝尔(Glen Cambell)凭《我不会想念你》(I’m Not Gonna Miss You)获得最佳歌曲、凯莉·安德伍德(Carrie Underwood)的《水中之物》(Something in the Water)获得最佳个人表演奖，“佩里乐队”(the Band Perry)凭《心中的温柔》(Gentle on My Mind)获得最佳双人或乐队表演奖。
In the rock categories, Jack White took best performance for his album “Lazaretto,” and the comedy-rock duo Tenacious D beat out Anthrax, Motörhead, Mastodon and Slipknot for best metal performance. Paramore’s “Ain’t It Fun” won best rock song, and the singer St. Vincent’s self-titled release took best alternative album.
在摇滚类，杰克·怀特(Jack White)凭专辑《传染病院》(Lazaretto)获得最佳表演奖，喜剧摇滚二人组“顽强的D”(Tenacious D)击败“炭疽”(Anthrax)、“摩托党”(Motörhead)、“乳齿象”(Mastodon)和“活结”(Slipknot)，获得最佳金属乐表演奖。“帕拉摩尔”(Paramore)的《不有趣吗》(Ain’t It Fun)获得最佳摇滚歌曲将，歌手圣文森特(St. Vincent)的同名专辑获得最佳另类专辑奖。
Chocked with 23 performances over three and a half hours, the night was a mixture of old and new. It opened with AC/DC, the indomitable Australian arena-rock stars, who — now in their 50s and 60s — strutted and duckwalked across the stage to their new song “Rock or Bust” and its 1979 hit, “Highway to Hell.”
颁奖礼持续了三个半小时，有23组演出，既有老艺人也有新艺人。开场的是势不可挡的澳大利亚舞台摇滚巨星“AC/DC”，他们现在都已经五六十岁了，在舞台上高视阔步，演唱了新歌《摇滚或破坏》(Rock or Bust)，以及1979年的金曲《地狱之路》(Highway to Hell)。
Tony Bennett and Lady Gaga sang “Cheek to Cheek,” an 80-year-old song by Irving Berlin; their album by that title also won best traditional pop vocal album. Beyoncé sang the gospel hymn “Precious Lord, Take My Hand,” dressed in diaphanous white and surrounded by a company with outstretched hands.
托尼·本奈特(Tony Bennett)和Lady Gaga唱了《脸贴脸》(Cheek to Cheek)，这是一首有80年历史的老歌，由伊芙·柏林(Irving Berlin)原唱；两人的专辑也以这首歌为名，获得了最佳传统流行演唱专辑。碧昂斯身穿半透明的白衣，在挥手致意的伴唱团陪伴下，演唱了福音赞美歌曲《亲爱的主，拉住我的手》(Precious Lord, Take My Hand)。
Annie Lennox of Eurythmics joined Hozier, a 24-year-old Irish singer-songwriter, for his song “Take Me to Church” and then sang an intense version of Screamin’ Jay Hawkins’s 1957 song “I Put a Spell on You” that seemed to grip the stars in the front rows. After singing his song “Thinking Out Loud,” Mr. Sheeran, 23, joined the reunited Electric Light Orchestra for their 1970s number “Mr. Blue Sky.”
“舞韵合唱团”(Eurythmics)的安妮·蓝诺克斯(Annie Lenno)和24岁的爱尔兰唱作人霍奇尔(Hozier)合作了霍奇尔创作的《带我去教堂》(Take Me to Church)之后激情演唱了“尖叫”·杰伊·霍金斯(Screamin’ Jay Hawkins)1957年的歌曲《我对你下了咒语》(I Put a Spell on You)，这首歌似乎令前排的歌星们都听呆了。23岁的希兰唱完自己的《大声想出来》(Thinking Out Loud)后，和重组的“电光乐团”(Electric Light Orchestra)合唱了他们70年代的歌《蓝天先生》(Mr. Blue Sky)。
The night was also full of eye-catching performances of newer songs, in stark colors or elaborately colorful scenes.
当晚还有许多新歌的精彩表演，以及各种多姿多彩的景象。
Kanye West, dressed in a velvety red jumpsuit and a thin gold chain, was barely illuminated by a low spotlight as he sang “Only One,” his voice warped by electronics. Later, Katy Perry followed a testimonial by a survivor of domestic violence by performing her “By the Grace of God” dressed in a white gown and cape, as a shadow pantomime unfolded behind her.
肯耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)身穿红色丝绒连身衣，带着细细的金链，在昏暗的灯光下延长了《唯一》(Only One)，他的声音被电子乐包裹着。后来，身穿白色长袍和斗篷的凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)在一位家庭暴力受害者的发言之后，演唱了《凭着上帝的恩典》(By the Grace of God)，身后还有投影演出。
At the other end of the spectrum, Mr. Williams led an expansively staged version of “Happy” and Madonna, dressed in red and black matador-style lingerie, sang “Living for Love” as dozens of horn-masked dancers writhed around her like characters from the film “Eyes Wide Shut.”
另一方面，威廉姆斯带来了极具舞台表现力的《快乐》，身穿红黑色斗牛士风格紧身衣的麦当娜(Madonna)演唱了《为爱而生》(Living for Love)，几十个头戴牛角面具的伴舞在她身周扭动身体，就像影片《大开眼戒》(Eyes Wide Shut)里那样。
Among those who went home empty-handed were a cohort of fresh faces up for their first Grammys. Those included the pop singer and songwriter Meghan Trainor and Hozier, whose real name is Andrew Hozier-Byrne.
空手而归的艺人们当中，有不少是初次入围格莱美的新面孔，其中包括流行歌手与唱作人梅根·特莱诺(Meghan Trainor)和霍奇尔，他的真名是安德鲁·霍奇尔-伯恩(Andrew Hozier-Byrne)
All but 9 of the 83 prizes were handed out in a nontelevised ceremony at the nearby Nokia Theater here. For years, this segment, known unceremoniously as the “pretel,” was a rather drab exercise plagued by artist no-shows. In an attempt to jazz it up a bit — and get more artists to show up — the organizers rechristened it the Grammy Premiere. It had slick production values, but many artists still failed to appear.
在全部83个奖项中，有9个奖项是在另一个没有电视直播的颁奖礼上颁发的，地点在附近的诺基亚剧场。多年来，这个环节被非正式地称为“预奖”，是个很乏味的活动，参加的艺人都不演出。为了让它生动一点，吸引更多一人参加，组织者给它重新命名为“格莱美首秀”(Grammy Premiere)。它体现了制作的价值，但仍然有很多艺人没有出席。
“Frozen,” the smash Disney soundtrack, had been shut out of the major awards, but took two in the visual media field: best compilation soundtrack, for the album, and best song written for visual media, for its ubiquitous hit, “Let It Go.”
迪士尼的大热原声辑《冰雪奇缘》(Frozen)没有获得大奖，但在视觉媒体领域获得两个奖项：专辑获得了最佳原声辑编辑，唱遍大街小巷的金曲《随它去》(Let It Go)获得了视觉媒体最佳歌曲。
The jazz keyboardist Chick Corea won two Grammys, bringing his total career take to 22 — tying Mr. Corea, 73, with U2 and Stevie Wonder. Mr. Corea took best improvised jazz solo for “Fingerprints”; “Trilogy,” the album from which that track was taken, also won best jazz instrumental album.
爵士键盘手奇克·科瑞亚(Chick Corea)获得两项格莱美奖，现年73岁的他的事业生涯中一共获取了22个格莱美奖项，与U2乐队和史蒂夫·旺德(Stevie Wonder)打成平手。科瑞亚以《指纹》(Fiingerprints)获得最佳爵士即兴独奏奖；这支曲子所在的专辑《三部曲》(Trilogy)获得最佳爵士乐器乐专辑。
Rosanne Cash, the singer-songwriter whose father was Johnny Cash, won three prizes in the American roots field, her first Grammys since 1986. Her song “A Feather’s Not a Bird” took best performance and best song, and “The River & the Thread” took best Americana album.
约翰尼·卡什(Johnny Cash)之女，唱作人罗珊娜·卡什在美国根源音乐领域获得三个奖项，这是她自1986年获得格莱美奖之后首次再度获奖。她的歌曲《一支羽毛不等于一只鸟儿》(A Feather’s Not a Bird)获得最佳表演奖与最佳歌曲奖，《河流与线索》(The River & the Thread)获得最佳美国风格专辑奖。
“There are second acts in American life,” Ms. Cash told reporters backstage. “I just showed up for work for 35 years, and this is what happened.”
“美国风格迎来了第二幕，”卡什在后台接受采访时说，“35年来我一直为了工作而出席，今天终于获奖了。”
In the fourth Grammy of his career, Weird Al Yankovic won best comedy album for “Mandatory Fun,” which last year became Mr. Yankovic’s first No. 1 album after an innovative video promotion campaign. With a nod to his habit of asking permission for his parodies, he thanked “all the recording artists that were nice enough to let me screw around with their music.”
“怪异”艾尔·扬科维奇(Weird Al Yankovic)凭《强制趣味》(Mandatory Fun)获得自己的第四个格莱美奖，这张去年推出的专辑是扬科维奇的第一张专辑，之前推出了颇有新意的视频宣传攻势。他习惯在进行戏仿之前先征得许可，于是在领奖时，他感谢了“所有慷慨地允许我糟践他们的音乐的录音乐手们。”
This year, lifetime achievement awards went to the Bee Gees, George Harrison, the classical conductor and composer Pierre Boulez, the blues guitarist Buddy Guy and Flaco Jiménez.
今年，终身成就奖发给了“Bee Gees”、乔治·哈里森(George Harrison)、古典乐指挥和作曲家皮尔·布莱兹(Pierre Boulez)、布鲁斯吉他手巴迪·盖伊(Buddy Guy)和弗拉克·吉梅内斯(Flaco Jiménez)。
The awards are given for recordings released from Oct. 1, 2013, to Sept. 30, 2014, and voted on by thousands of members of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences.
这些奖项是颁给2013年10月1日至2014年9月30日之间发行的专辑，由国家录音艺术与科学学院的数千名成员投票产生。