A series of small explosions occurred outside a Communist Party building in the northern Chinese city of Taiyuan on Wednesday, killing at least one person and injuring eight others, the state media and government officials reported.
国家媒体和政府消息称，中国北方城市太原市的共产党机关大楼外周三接连发生了数起小型爆炸物爆炸，造成至少一人死亡，8人受伤。
A resident of a building facing the party offices told Xinhua, the official news agency, that seven blasts had sent pedestrians fleeing.
官方通讯社新华社援引这座办公楼对面一个住户的话说，先后听到七声爆炸，行人们纷纷跑开。
The explosions came as security has been heightened in China after a sport utility vehicle drove into pedestrians and then caught fire at the entrance to the Forbidden City in Beijing, killing five people, including three in the vehicle, and injuring 40. Chinese officials characterized the Oct. 28 attack as having been carried out by ethnic Uighur extremists from the Xinjiang region, in western China.
这次爆炸发生时，中国正在加强安全措施。此前一辆吉普车在北京的紫禁城入口附近撞向行人后起火，造成包括车内三人在内的5人死亡，40人受伤。中国官方将10月28日的袭击案件描绘为来自西部新疆地区的维吾尔族极端分子所为。
The building where Wednesday’s explosions occurred was an office building of the Shanxi Provincial Committee of the Communist Party, Xinhua said. Taiyuan, with a population of more than four million, is the provincial capital.
新华社说，周三爆炸发生的地点是在山西省省委办公大楼前。山西省省会城市是太原市，该市有400多万人口。
The police have yet to publicly identify any potential suspects. Shanxi’s Public Security Bureau said in a message posted online that it is conducting an “all-out investigation.”
警方尚未公开确定任何可能的嫌疑人。山西省公安厅在网上发布信息称其正在“全力侦破此案”。
Ball bearings were found at the scene of the explosion, leading to suspicions that a homemade bomb was used, Xinhua reported. The blasts struck around 7:40 a.m., the Shanxi Public Security Bureau said in a notice on its official microblog account.
新华社消息称，在爆炸现场发现了一些钢珠，由此推测爆炸可能用的是自制炸弹。山西省公安厅在其官方微博上发贴称，爆炸发生在早上7点40分左右。
Images of smoke and damaged cars filled Chinese microblogs in the hours after the explosion. The street in front of the party building, a main thoroughfare home to several government buildings, was shut down after the explosion, according to residents reached by phone.
爆炸发生后的几小时内，中国微博上可以看到不少现场照片，包括浓烟和被毁坏的汽车。通过电话联系到的居民称，省委大楼前的主要道路在爆炸发生后被封锁，该道路旁有好几座政府大楼。
Li Zhenzhen, who works in Taiyuan, said she passed by the scene after the explosion. The police had already closed off the area and were preventing passers-by from taking photographs, she said. “There were a lot of glass shards on the ground,” Ms. Li said. “There was blood on the ground.”
在太原工作的李真真（音译）说，她在爆炸后曾经过现场。警方已经封锁了该区域，并在阻止路人拍照。她说，“路上有很多玻璃碎片。地上还有血迹。”
The explosions struck just three days before the Chinese Communist Party’s current Central Committee was scheduled to hold its third plenum, an important meeting that is supposed to set China’s economic course over the next decade.
这次爆炸发生的时间，正好在中国共产党的本届中央委员会即将举行的三中全会召开的三天之前，人们期待这个重要会议将给中国经济未来十年指明道路。
China has seen at least one other bomb attack outside official buildings in recent years. In 2011, two people were killed and seven injured after three explosions around government offices in the city of Fuzhou in the eastern province of Jiangxi. The man suspected of being the perpetrator, who died in one of the blasts, was angered by the low compensation he had received for the demolition of his home for highway construction.
近年来，中国至少发生过另外一起政府大楼外的爆炸事件。2011年，江西省抚州市政府大楼附近发生了三起爆炸，造成2人死亡，7人受伤。肇事嫌疑人在爆炸中身亡，他制造爆炸是因为对拆迁的补偿过低感到愤怒，为了修建高速公路他家的房子被拆迁。