The police have arrested a suspect in Wednesday’s deadly bombing outside a Communist Party building in Taiyuan, an incident that heightened security fears, particularly in the wake of a daring attack the previous week at the entrance to the Forbidden City in Beijing.
本周三，太原市的山西省委大楼外发生了一起恶性爆炸案，加重了人们对安全的担心，尤其在前一周，北京故宫的入口处刚刚发生了一起大胆的袭击事件。目前，警方已将太原爆炸案的一名嫌犯抓获。
“The suspect, Feng Zhijun, was arrested in Taiyuan,” said a report Friday by the state-run Xinhua news agency. It described Mr. Feng as a 41-year-old resident of Xinghualing District in Taiyuan who previously served a 9-year prison sentence for robbery.
“犯罪嫌疑人丰志均在太原被抓捕归案，”中国国家媒体新华通讯社在周五的报道中称。根据该报道，丰志均今年41岁，是太原市杏花岭区人，曾因盗窃被判处有期徒刑９年。
“The police seized homemade explosive devices in his residence, and discovered large quantities of evidence of the crime,” the report said, adding, “Feng Zhijun confessed without reservation to the facts of the crime.”
“警方从其住处缴获了私自制造的爆炸装置，发现了大量犯罪证据，”报道称。“丰志均对犯罪事实供认不讳。”
In the attack, the bomber set off a series of small explosions outside the party offices, killing at least one person and injuring eight others, the state media and government officials reported. Ball bearings were found at the scene of the explosion, leading to suspicions that a homemade bomb had been used.
新华社和政府官员称，此次袭击中，嫌犯在省委办公楼外引爆了一系列小型爆炸物，导致至少1人死亡，另有8人受伤。有关部门在爆炸现场发现了钢珠，由此怀疑案犯使用的是自制炸弹。
The Taiyuan explosions came just days before party leaders are to gather in Beijing for a Communist Party conference that is supposed to set China’s economic course over the next decade. The meeting starts on Saturday.
太原爆炸事件的时间距离党领导人汇聚北京召开共产党会议只有几天，此次会议预计将设定中国未来十年的经济发展路线。会议将于周六开始。
At the time of the attack, security had already been heightened in China because of the Oct. 28 Beijing incident, in which a sport utility vehicle was driven into pedestrians and then caught fire at the entrance to the Forbidden City, killing five people, including three in the vehicle, and injuring 40. Chinese officials characterized that attack as having been carried out by ethnic Uighur extremists from the Xinjiang region, in western China.
此次爆炸事件发生之时，中国已经加强了安保措施，原因是10月28日北京发生了袭击事件，一辆运动型多功能车驶进人行道上的人群，后来在故宫入口处起火，致使包括车内三人在内的五人丧生，40人受伤。中国官员称这是由中国西部新疆地区的维吾尔族极端分子发起的袭击。