Rei Kawakubo is about to redefine shopping in New York City. Her latest collection for Comme des Garçons is strange, beautiful, singular and, for most of us, unwearable. Yet fashion’s most powerful provocateur is also one of its savviest commercial minds. While she is silent about her own creative process, Kawakubo is a keen nurturer of young talent, bringing unknown artists and designers into her fold. With the opening this month of Dover Street Market New York, the sleepy neighborhood of Kips Bay is poised to become the epicenter of the city’s fashion map.
川久保玲将重新定义纽约市的购物图景。她的Comme des Garçons最新系列古怪、美丽、独特，对大多数人来说，不适合穿着。但是作为时装界最强大的颠覆者，她也拥有精明的商业头脑。虽然她对自己的创作过程三缄其口，但是她热衷于培养新秀，把不出名的艺术家和设计师纳入自己门下。随着纽约多佛街市场本月开业，昏昏沉沉的基普湾即将成为该市时尚地图的中心。
Three pillars — fantastically decorated by three different artists — run vertically through six floors of a vast former school building in Manhattan’s Kips Bay neighborhood. Surrounded by curry and sari shops, it will be the unlikely new home of New York’s first Dover Street Market, the multibrand store from Comme des Garçons.
三根柱子经过三名艺术家的奇特装饰，竖直穿过曼哈顿基普湾一座学校旧址宽敞的6层楼。周围全是咖喱店和沙丽店，谁也没想到纽约的第一个多佛街市场(Dover Street Market)会开在这里。多佛街市场是川久保玲的多品牌店。
But this noble old building on Lexington Avenue has two other metaphoric pillars, and these are names that lie at the heart of the current fashion establishment. Miuccia Prada is building a permanent space on the top floor, while Louis Vuitton is creating a three-month pop-up store in the main entrance area.
但是莱辛顿大道上的这座宏伟旧建筑有另外两个精神上的支柱，那就是占据当今时装界中心位置的两个品牌。缪西娅·普拉达(Miuccia Prada)将在顶层开一个永久店铺，LV将在正门入口处开一个为期三个月的短期概念店。
“Prada have been amazing, and have created a special collection just for us, with their iconic shapes in new materials and classic prints from 20 years ago,” says Adrian Joffe, chief executive officer of Comme des Garçons International and the husband of Rei Kawakubo, who, for once, has broken her inscrutable silence.
“普拉达很不可思议，专门为我们设计了一个系列，把他们的标志图形用在新材料上，还有20年前的经典印花，”Comme des Garçons国际公司的首席执行官阿德里安·约弗(Adrian Joffe)说。他是川久保玲的丈夫，这一次他打破了她神秘的沉默。
The lauded Japanese designer, who recently turned 71, has a great deal to say about this new Manhattan project as well as about the design transformation of her existing flagship Comme des Garçons store in Chelsea.
这位备受赞誉的71岁日本设计师，对于曼哈顿新店以及切尔西Comme des Garçons旗舰店的设计转变，有很多话要说。
“For Dover Street Market New York, I wanted to keep the no-rule, beautiful chaos feeling of the first two Dover Street Markets,” the designer says in Japanese as Joffe translates. She is referring to the existing stores, one in London’s Mayfair section, which opened in 2004 on its namesake Dover Street, and another that opened in Tokyo’s Ginza district in 2012. (They also have a franchise in Beijing.)
“对纽约的多佛街市场，我想保持前两个多佛街市场无规则的、美丽的混乱感觉，”这位设计师用日语说。约弗担任翻译。川久保玲提到的前两家店一个位于伦敦梅菲尔区，开设于2004年，店名就取自它所在的多佛街；另一个位于东京银座，开设于2012年（北京还有个加盟店）。
“But in contrast to New York itself, I wanted to design it with extreme simplicity, unsophisticated, almost primitive and with naïve artlessness,” Kawakubo says.
“但是为了和纽约相对比，我想把它设计得非常简单，朴实无华，带点原始和天真，”川久保玲说。
The designer, who came onto the international fashion scene in the 1980s with distressed black clothes that served as a counterpoint to the era’s thrusting, androgynous outfits, has always led her own counterculture movement. It hasn’t been so much a political as a visual challenge to clothes based on cut, stitch and shape and definitions of current society. Kawakubo still thinks along those lines and avoids pigeonholing or developing one particular style in her stores as much as on the runway.
这位设计师在20世纪80年代登上国际时装舞台，带来的是阴郁的黑色服装，是对那个年代强大的中性服装的对抗。她总能引领自己的反文化运动。它不是政治运动，而是对基于剪裁、缝制和形状的服装以及对现代社会定义的视觉挑战。川久保玲仍沿着这个思路，不管是在店铺里还是在秀台上，她都不想囿于或只发展某种风格。
“In conceiving seven floors and the interior design of each space, I took no notice of the traditional need to separate by category, by sex, by lifestyle or by age,” the designer explains. “And by designing a transparent elevator that pierces all seven floors through the middle of the store, I have tried to make the whole shop as if it is one shop — one total experience.”
“在构思七层楼和每个空间的内部设计时，我完全不理会传统的按照种类、性别、生活方式或年龄分类的方法，”这位设计师解释说，“我设计了一个能在店铺中央穿透全部七层楼的透明电梯，尽量让整个店看起来像一个店，让顾客获得一个整体的体验。”
The sheer bravado of taking on this massive 18,000-square-foot building is breathtaking. It once housed the New York School of Applied Design for Women, which was for a time associated with Columbia University and helped young women to pursue careers in arts and crafts. On the worn boards and plain walls you can imagine the spirit of female endeavor. The pillared structure dates back to 1909 and is classified as a New York City landmark building. But none of that was likely to put off a designer who never compromises her aesthetic vision and continues to push the boundaries of what “fashion” is and whether that word even has to translate into wearable clothing.
包下这个1.8万平方英尺的宏大建筑本身就很大胆，令人惊叹。这里曾是纽约女子应用设计学校的所在地，过去隶属于哥伦比亚大学，帮助年轻女子追求艺术和手工艺方面的事业。在破旧的板子和简朴的墙上，你能想像出女性奋斗的精神。这个用柱子支撑的建筑建于1909年，是纽约的地标建筑。但这些都未曾令这位设计师却步，在审美理念上她从不妥协，仍在不断打破“时装”的定义，甚至不认为时装必须是可以穿着的衣服。
Her recent spring 2014 collection used elaborate workmanship to created curvilinear designs that seemed more like body architecture than clothing. Like her poetic 2012 “White Drama” collection and her 2005 “Broken Bride” collection, these designs appear to be outside commercial conventions. Yet the “hyper-imaginative” collection clothes are always on sale right alongside the more commercial Comme des Garçons lines, like Play and Black, that provide a sturdy base for the sales pyramid. The clothing that seems most unlikely to end up in customer closets — like the now infamous “lumps and bumps” collection of 1997 — is similar to any other modern art form designed to stir the mind and surprise the eye.
她最近的2014春季系列把精致的手工艺和创新的曲线设计结合起来，看起来更像是身体建筑，而不是衣服。就像她2012年诗意的“白色戏剧”系列和2005年的“破碎的新娘”系列一样，这些设计似乎在商业传统之外。但是这些“极具想像力”的衣服总是和更商业化的Comme des Garçons系列——比如Play and Black——放在一起销售，后者为川久保玲的销售金字塔奠定了坚实的基础。这些衣服很可能最终不会到达顾客的衣橱，就像如今声名狼藉的1997年的lumps and bumps系列一样，更接近其他现代艺术形式，设计的目的就是激发人们的思维，震惊人们的眼球。
Kawakubo’s conception of the new Dover Street Market store as “beautiful chaos” thus has a method to its apparent madness. The idea is of a magical coalition of fashion, art and commerce. While the store will feature all 15 Comme des Garçons brands (Homme Plus, Shirt, Junya Watanabe, to name a few), the list of other designers who will be showcased in their own individual spaces reads like a who’s who of inventive fashion today, and includes Prada, Saint Laurent, Azzedine Alaïa, Thom Browne, Rick Owens, Sacai and Undercover.
川久保玲想让新的多佛街市场具有“美丽的混乱”，这就能解释它明显的疯狂。它的理念是把时装、艺术和商业神奇地结合起来。该店将展示Comme des Garçons的全部15个品牌（比如Homme Plus，Shirt 和 Junya Watanabe等），其他设计师的服装将在各自的空间里展示，看起来就像当今时装创意大师名录，包括普拉达(Prada)、圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)、阿瑟丁·阿拉亚(Azzedine Alaïa)、桑姆·布郎尼(Thom Browne)、瑞克·欧文斯(Rick Owens)、Sacai和高桥盾UC(Undercover)。
The main floor is where Louis Vuitton is setting up its pop-up shop; and Rose Bakery, the cult French bakery that is also in the London and Tokyo stores, will be on the first floor and mezzanine. But just in case that might seem too “establishment,” Joffe has installed an “experimental” sound system from the Brooklyn-based musical artist Calx Vive, which will play from various sculptures throughout the building.
主楼层就是LV开设短期概念店的那一层。受热棒的法国玫瑰面包房(Rose Bakery)将设在一层和夹层，伦敦和东京的店里都设有这个面包房。为了避免看起来太“程式化”，约弗安装了一个布鲁克林音乐艺术家卡尔克斯·维韦(Calx Vive)设计的“实验性的”音响系统，将从大楼内的各个雕塑发出声音。
Always ready to support new talent, Joffe and Kawakubo have made space for burgeoning British talent like Simone Rocha and J. W. Anderson, and a fourth floor “incubation” area with small customized spaces for young designers like the Russian Gosha Rubchinskiy, known for his skate-inspired fashion, and Max Vanderwoude Gross, the 27-year-old behind the up-and-coming New York label Proper Gang. Other designers on the floor, which will be called the “Energy Showroom,” include Lou Dalton, Phoebe English, Craig Green, Lee Roach and Sibling.
约弗和川久保玲一直乐于支持新秀，他们为快速崛起的英国设计人才也留出了空间，比如西蒙妮·罗沙(Simone Rocha)和J·W·安德森(J. W. Anderson)。四层的“培育”区为年轻设计师们留出了个性化的小展厅，比如俄罗斯设计师戈沙·鲁布钦斯基(Gosha Rubchinskiy)，他以溜冰为灵感创作的系列让他小有名气；以及27岁的设计师马克斯·范德伍德·格罗斯(Max Vanderwoude Gross)，他是即将上市的纽约品牌Proper Gang的设计师。这一层被称作“活力展厅”，这里的设计师还有卢·道尔顿(Lou Dalton)、菲比·英格利希(Phoebe English)、克雷格·格林(Craig Green)、李·罗奇(Lee Roach)和兄弟姐妹(Sibling)。
“Dover Street Market’s core value is to share a space with people with vision, people who have something to say,” Joffe says.
“多佛街市场的核心价值是和有远见、有想法的人分享一个空间，”约弗说。
But what about this unconventional, out-of-left-field location, so uncool and far from any stylish shopping zone?
但是为什么选择这个非传统的、让人甚感意外的地点呢？这里一点都不酷，远离所有时髦的购物区。
Kawakubo has an exceptional sense of place. When Comme des Garçons opened in Tokyo’s Aoyama district in 1975, the neighborhood was far from bustling, but it eventually evolved into a fashion hot spot. Similarly, when she opened her first Comme des Garçons store in New York in 1983, she chose SoHo, which was mostly a place for artists, not the downtown epicenter of fashion. And since she moved the shop to Chelsea in 1999, that area has evolved into a district of high-end galleries.
川久保玲对地点有特殊的感知。1975年川久保玲店铺在东京青山区开业时，那里一点都不热闹，但它最终发展成了一个时尚的热门地段。同样地，1983年她在纽约开设第一家店时，她选择了SoHo区，那里是艺术家聚集的地方，不是市中心的时装中心。1999年她把那家店搬到了切尔西，那里最终发展成了一个高端画廊聚集的地方。
Now it’s all changing in Chelsea, as the famous aluminum tunnel weaving through a former automobile repair building is spun with gold. Make that GOLD! For in order to emphasize the spirit of Comme des Garçons and redefine it for the arrival of Dover Street Market, Kawakubo has gone on a gilt trip that starts with golden tree sculptures designed by the Japanese artist Kohei Nawa inside the store.
现在切尔西的一切都在变化，从以前一个汽车修理厂穿过的那条著名的铝合金隧道镀上了一层金色。让它变成金色！为了强调Comme des Garçons的精神，为了在多佛街市场开设之际重新定义该店，川久保玲开始了一场镀金之旅，首先是在店里树立了几个镀金的树雕，设计者是日本艺术家名和晃平。
“For the renovation of Chelsea, I wanted to create an even stronger, even more forward-looking, even more stimulating shop — to try to fulfill the hopes of our core Comme des Garçons customers,” explains the designer, who sees the actual Comme des Garçons stores as havens for “the fundamentalists,” as Joffe calls the hard-core fans, the people who might have started buying the label during the years when the Comme message was almost entirely black. But black is now, apparently, no longer the signature color.
“在给切尔西店装修时，我想创造一个更强大、更前瞻、更刺激的店铺，努力满足Comme des Garçons核心顾客的期望，”这位设计师解释说。她把Comme des Garçons的实体店看做是“基要派”的避难所。“基要派”是约弗对该品牌核心顾客的称呼。这些顾客可能从该品牌几乎全是黑色的那个年代就开始购买它的服装了。不过现在黑色显然不再是Comme des Garçons的标志性颜色。
“I imagined this time a magical world using my third color after black and red: gold,” the designer explains. “I know that when babies are given the choice of colors, they often choose gold.”
“金色是我在黑色和红色之后钟爱的第三种颜色，这一次我想用它来构建一个奇幻的世界，”这位设计师说，“我知道让婴儿选颜色的话，他们通常会选金色。”
“So in this spirit of gold being the most enjoyable color,” she continues, “I have transformed the existing space and architecture to create a new intimate and concentrated shop. And as well as Comme des Garçons, I have also chosen to add personally, for the first time, some other brands and accessories that I like. Everything here is 100 percent my eye.” The store will carry brands like the Pop Art-inspired British designers Meadham Kirchhoff and the New York-based leather designer Zana Bayne. The notion that a designer’s store expresses the creative personality behind it is a given. But constant change is not. At Comme des Garçons, the search for the new and the need to evolve is part of the brand’s DNA.
“所以秉承金色这种最欢快的颜色的精神，”她继续说道，“我把现有的空间和建筑改造成一个新的亲密而集中的店铺。除了Comme des Garçons，我还首次决定增加一些我个人偏爱的品牌和配饰店。这里的一切都是我挑选的。”将入驻这家店的其他设计师包括以流行艺术为灵感的英国设计师米德海姆·克希霍夫(Meadham Kirchhoff)和纽约皮革设计师扎娜·贝恩(Zana Bayne)。设计师的店铺能表达出它背后的创作个性——这是理所当然的。但不断变化却并非司空见惯。在Comme des Garçons，求新和发展是精髓。
Joffe says creative retail strategies embody the main pillar of Comme des Garçons’ sense of values: the never-ending search for something new.
约弗说，创意零售战略体现出Comme des Garçons的重要价值观：永远求新。
“We are always forward-looking, always evolving,” he says of the company’s pioneering spirit and its essential beliefs.
“我们一直在向前看，一直在发展，”谈起该公司的开拓精神和基本价值观时他说。
Kawakubo expressed the same idea but put it more profoundly.
川久保玲也表达了同样的观点，不过她说得更深刻。
“Without creation,” she says, “there can be no progress and man cannot evolve.”
“如果没有创新，”她说，“就没有进步，人类就不能进化。”