SHORT PUMP, Va. — Peter Chang was in the house.
弗吉尼亚州肖特庞普——张鹏亮(Peter Chang)就在这里。
“Did you see Chang up front?” one of my guests asked, taking a seat around a big glass lazy susan in the back of Peter Chang China Café in this suburb of Richmond. “By the register?”
“你看到张鹏亮在前面了吗？”我的一位客人问，他坐在了店面深处的一张玻璃转盘大桌旁边，“就在柜台旁边？”这里是张鹏亮在里士满郊区的中餐馆。
There he was, just hanging out in civilian clothes, the chef whose devotees will travel hundreds of miles on a rumor that he may be cooking in some far-off town. Mr. Chang’s unpredictable appearances in the kitchen are at least as famous as his Sichuan-style dry-fried eggplant. He used to have a habit of quitting any restaurant where his food had attracted a fanatical following or, worse, a good review.
张鹏亮站在那里，仅仅穿着日常便服；如果有传闻说这位大厨会到某个偏远小镇掌勺，他的粉丝会不远千里赶到那里。张鹏亮的神出鬼没至少跟他著名的川菜风格的干煎茄子一样出名。在过去，他的习惯是，不论在哪家餐馆，一旦他烹饪的美食吸引了狂热粉丝，或者更糟糕的是，获得了美食界好评，他就会离开那里。
This, of course, made his followers all the more fanatical. He hopscotched around Chinese restaurants in Virginia, turned up at several in Georgia and was briefly sighted in Virginia again before surfacing in Tennessee for a minute or two. He must be the only chef in America whose Wikipedia entry contains a section called “Disappearances and movement.”
这当然会让他的粉丝更加狂热。他在弗吉尼亚州各地的中餐馆跳来跳去，去过乔治亚州的几家餐馆，然后又短暂地出现在了弗吉尼亚州，此后去田纳西州工作了很短一阵子。在美国维基百科条目中，他肯定是唯一一个有“出没”章节的厨师。
The current, stable period of his career began when he struck up a business partnership with Gen Lee, a Chinese chef in semiretirement. Three years ago, they opened Peter Chang China Grill in Charlottesville, Va. An owner at last, Mr. Chang did not quit this time. Not that he stayed put, exactly. He and Mr. Lee quickly began colonizing the rest of the state, planting Peter Chang restaurants in Fredericksburg, Williamsburg, Virginia Beach and here. They hope to open one in Fairfax, outside Washington, later this year.
他的职业生涯目前处在比较稳定的阶段，这种情况开始于他跟一位处于半退休状态的中国厨师李詹（Gen Lee，音译）的合伙创业。三年前，他们在弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔开了一家“张鹏亮中国烧烤店”(Peter Chang China Grill)，终于，作为餐馆老板，张鹏亮这次没再一走了之。但这也并不是说他在原地不动。他和李詹迅速开始进行扩张，在弗雷德里克斯堡、威廉斯堡、弗吉尼亚海滩和这里开设分店。他们希望今年晚些时候再在华盛顿之外的费尔法克斯开家分店。
Now, instead of worrying that Mr. Chang’s menu will disappear overnight, his admirers play a different kind of shell game. On any given day he will probably be cooking in a Peter Chang restaurant, but which one?
现在，张鹏亮的粉丝无需再担心他的菜会在一夜之间从菜单上消失，他们要玩的是另一个猜谜游戏了。在任何一个特定的日子，张鹏亮都有可能在他的某家餐馆里下厨，但究竟是哪一家呢？
Before coming to Virginia with a plan to eat at three of his places in 24 hours, I asked one of my operatives in the state to gather intelligence from a source inside Chang headquarters. “The betting on Chef’s whereabouts — and he generally informs no one of where he intends to pop up — is Monday-Tuesday in Virginia Beach, Wednesday-Thursday in Richmond, and Friday-Saturday in Fredericksburg,” my informant wrote. “I’m assuming it’s subject to change on a whim.”
我可以24小时内先后去他的三家餐馆吃饭，在带着这个计划前往弗吉尼亚之前，我让我在该州的联络人从张鹏亮餐馆总部的一个内线那里打听消息。“这位厨师的日程——他通常不告诉任何人自己会去哪里——很可能是周一周二在弗吉尼亚海滩，周三周四在里士满，周五周六在弗雷德里克斯堡，”我的线人写道。“我觉得他也有可能一时兴起变更这个日程。”
In fact, when I got to Virginia Beach that Monday, I learned that Mr. Chang was in Fredericksburg. But the night before in Short Pump, where I hadn’t expected to spot him at all, he was lingering casually by the front door. At some point, he slipped into the kitchen.
事实上，当我那个周一到达维吉尼亚海滩时，得知张鹏亮在弗雷德里克斯堡。但前一天晚上在肖特庞普，他就在前门处悠闲地走动，我完全没料到会在肖特庞普看到他。后来他进了厨房。
Scallion pancakes led off. These were not the flaky pancakes I knew, though. They were air-filled puffs, as round and light as a beach ball. I tore off a patch, dipped them into a dish of warm curried broth, and wondered how the puffs still kept their shape. A minute later there were spring rolls, green leaves of cilantro showing through the wrappers, with an airy filling of flaky ginger-seasoned flounder. It sounds too simple to be as delicious as it was.
最先端上来的是葱油饼。但是它们不是我熟悉的那种片状煎饼，而是充满空气的泡芙，像沙滩球一样又圆又轻。我撕下一块，蘸在一碗温热的咖喱肉汤中，很好奇这种泡芙如何做到形状不变的。一分钟后，春卷端了上来，透过皮可以看到里面的香菜绿叶；春卷里还松松地填着酥脆的、用姜调味的比目鱼。这听起来简单，实际上却非常美味。
Then we were given a piece of woven cane, the kind used for chair seats, bent into a cone and pinned with a skewer. Inside were chunks of crisp, nearly greaseless fried flounder tossed with a small salad of cilantro sprigs, sweet onions, dried chiles and cumin. Cilantro, chiles and cumin appeared again with dry-fried eggplant, float-away sticks that made me think of eggplant marshmallow.
然后上桌的是一块编织的藤条，用来做椅子座位那种藤条，弯曲成锥状，用一根串肉扦固定。它里面是一些很脆的、几乎无油煎制的比目鱼块，拌着一小份沙拉，里面有胡荽叶小枝、甜洋葱、干辣椒和孜然。香菜、辣椒和孜然还出现在了干煸茄子这道菜里，那些仿佛可以漂浮起来的长方茄条让我想起茄子软糖。
There were Sichuan standards, too: spicy dan dan noodles with an expertly gauged sweet-sour ratio and a numbing blast of Sichuan peppercorns; outstandingly crisp and tender twice-cooked pork; beef with tofu-skin noodles lightly scored on one side to catch the searing chile oil; and, to tamp down the fires, cooling chunks of firm raw cucumber dressed with garlic.
这里也有标准川菜：味道十足的担担面的酸甜比非常精准，其花椒的麻味颇有冲击力；回锅肉脆嫩兼具；牛肉腐皮丝，一边轻轻地刻上花刀，以便吸收灼热的辣椒油；还有凉拌的蒜蓉黄瓜，用来解辣。
This was Chinese cooking with true finesse. The muscular Sichuan dishes were unusually well balanced, while the charm of some others was arrived at through subtle and delicate means.
这是非常精致的中国菜。口味浓重的川菜搭配极为平衡，其他一些菜品的魅力则是通过一些微妙而细腻的手段呈现出来的。
The United States has any number of very skilled Chinese cooks. It has far fewer who put their skills in the service of the imaginative leaps we expect from major chefs. By the end of my dinner in Short Pump, I had no doubts that Mr. Chang is one of them.
美国拥有许多技艺精湛的中国厨师，但是很少有人会对他们的手艺进行富有想象力的发挥，而这往往是我们对那些厨艺大师的期许。在肖特庞普的晚餐接近尾声时，我确定张鹏亮正是其中之一。
At one time, talent like Mr. Chang’s was not so rare in this country. After the federal Immigration Act of 1965, a number of them moved to New York, which was exposed for the first time to extraordinary Sichuanese and Hunanese cooking. In 1971, Raymond A. Sokolov wrote in The New York Times that “Chinese chefs have emerged as figures of the same importance as French chefs.”
曾经有一段时间，像张鹏亮这种有才华的人在这里并不少见。1965年，在联邦移民法案(Immigration Act)颁布后，有些厨师来到纽约，这座城市也首次尝到了美味的四川菜和湖南菜。1971年，雷蒙德·A·索科洛夫(Raymond A. Sokolov)在《纽约时报》上写道，“中国厨师成了与法国厨师同样重要的人物。”
The most famous of all was probably Tsung Ting Wang, the chef of Shun Lee Dynasty on Second Avenue in Midtown. Ed Schoenfeld, the operating partner of the two RedFarm restaurants in Manhattan, began his career in Chinese restaurants during that era. He recalls T. T. Wang as “world class, a Ferran Adrià. Just an incredibly great chef.”
他们当中最有名的或许要数位于中城第二大道Shun Lee Dynasty餐厅的主厨王春庭（Tsung Ting Wang，音译）了。曼哈顿两家RedFarm餐厅的运营合伙人艾德·舍恩菲尔德(Ed Schoenfeld)就从那个时期开始了他在中国餐厅的职业生涯。他说王春庭“堪称世界一流，是另一位费伦·阿德里亚(Ferran Adrià)。是一位了不起的伟大厨师”。
“I met a group of people like that,” Mr. Schoenfeld said. “When they died, I didn’t come across any others.” The profession of chef nearly vanished from mainland China, and with it the apprenticeship system through which highly trained chefs passed on what they knew.
“我见过一些那样的人，”舍恩菲尔德说。“他们死后，我再也没见过像他们那样的人。”厨师行当一度几乎从中国大陆消失，一同消失的还有其学徒体系——受过严格训练的厨师都是通过这个体系来传授技能的。
Peter Chang was born in 1963 in a poor village (“not even a village” Mr. Lee said) in Hubei Province, next door to Sichuan. By the time he was a teenager, China had begun to value its cooking traditions again, and he was sent to culinary school in Hubei. He worked in hotels and on cruise ships on the Yangtze River, where the woman he would later marry, Lisa Chang, was his supervisor. In 2000, after auditioning for the government, he was dispatched to Washington as chef of the Chinese Embassy.
1963年，张鹏亮出生于紧邻四川的湖北省的一个贫穷山村（李詹说这里“甚至称不上山村”）。当他还是个孩子的时候，中国又开始重视它的烹饪传统，后来他被送到了湖北的厨师学校。他在酒店和长江上的游轮里工作过，后来与他当时的上司丽莎·张（Lisa Chang，音译）结了婚。2000年，经过政府的筛选，他被派去华盛顿在中国大使馆担任主厨。
After two years, he left that job and began his suburban wanderings, as chronicled by Calvin Trillin in a 2010 New Yorker article. The restaurants where he alighted were as unlikely as the ones where he has now settled down, in his restless way. He has a special affinity for strip malls in cities that are not particularly known for the vibrancy of their Chinese restaurants. When he opens a new place, local newspapers tend to tell readers that it is not affiliated with P. F. Chang’s.
加尔文·特里林(Calvin Trillin)在2010年写给《纽约客》(The New Yorker)的一篇文章中说，两年后，张鹏亮离开大使馆，开始在郊区餐厅四处游走。他经常更换工作地点，他曾经工作过的餐厅与他现在安定下来的这些餐厅都同样出人意料。他与城市里的小型购物中心有着特殊缘分，这些地方不会因为中餐馆的活力而享有特殊名气。每当他开设新店，当地报纸总会告诉读者，这家店与华馆(P. F. Chang’s)餐厅没有任何关系。
Sean Brock, the chef of McCrady’s in Charleston, S.C., and the Husk restaurants in Charleston and Nashville, estimated that he had eaten about 15 meals in Mr. Chang’s restaurants, and said that each time, “I feel like I’m sitting in a roomful of people who don’t know how lucky they are. He’s got legions of fans, but you can tell that not everybody in the dining room knows where they’re sitting.”
西恩·布洛克(Sean Brock)在南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿的麦克科拉迪餐厅，以及纳什维尔和查尔斯顿的哈斯克餐厅担任大厨，他估计自己在张鹏亮的餐厅吃过大约15次饭。他说，每一次“我都觉得周围的一屋子人根本就不知道自己到底有多幸运。他有不少拥趸，但你看得出来，不是餐厅里的所有人都明白自己究竟坐在什么地方。”
Peter Chang’s servers, most of whom look like local college students, do not push too hard when they inform customers that the kitchen makes familiar dishes like General Tso’s chicken along with more adventurous, chile-laden items. Pointing to the list of cold Sichuan appetizers, one explained: “They tend to be a little more out of the box. I like a lot of them, but that’s just me. The other menu has some more Americanized dishes. It’s not as weird as the other stuff.”
张鹏亮的服务生大都看上去很像本地大学生，他们并不勉强顾客，只是告诉他们，除了左宗棠鸡之类熟悉的菜色，厨房也提供一些放辣椒的冒险菜肴。一位服务生指着川菜的开胃冷菜单解释说：“这些菜有点突破常规。我很喜欢它们，但只是我的个人喜好。另一份菜单上有更美国化的菜色。不像这份菜单这么怪。”
In Williamsburg, before I could eat pigs’ feet stir-fried with dried chiles and Sichuan peppercorns, I had to overcome my server’s gentle concern. As I had hoped, the feet were fantastic. The Sichuan hot-and-numbing effect put an electric charge in the sticky, crunchy bits of skin, but the spice never overpowered the deeply flavored pork. Tea-smoked duck stir-fried with sticks of ginger, another high point of that meal, was more restrained, but just as flavorful.
在威廉姆斯堡，不顾服务生温柔的提醒，我点了一份干辣椒和四川花椒炒猪蹄。不出我所料，这道菜美味至极。猪皮粘腻鲜脆，川菜的麻辣滋味如电流般刺激；但猪肉的浓郁口感始终没被调料的味道掩盖。和姜丝同炒的樟茶鸭是这一餐中另一个亮点，虽然比较简单，但是同样可口。
A couple of other dishes there did not have the same sharp focus. That was true in Virginia Beach, too, where I ate crispy pork belly that looked like the great bamboo shrimp I’d had in Short Pump but didn’t have nearly the same impact.
有几道菜并没有这样令人难忘的美味。弗吉尼亚海滩的那家店也是如此，我在那儿吃了酥脆猪肚，它看上去有点像我在肖特庞普店吃到的大竹节虾，但却远没有竹节虾好。
Other dishes, though, were remarkable. Cold cucumber with garlic and cilantro outraced the Short Pump version; noodle soup with brisket seemed to get better as the meal went on; and a kind of pan-fried ravioli called Golden Marble, filled with soft tofu seasoned with shrimp and cilantro, was a subtle knockout. Virginia Beach also had a dim sum menu devised by Mr. Chang’s wife. I would return just to find out whether it is all as delicious as the domed, pan-fried bun stuffed with lightly sweetened pork I tried.
不过，弗吉尼亚海滩店也有一些菜值得一提。比如蒜瓣与芫荽拍黄瓜这道菜就比肖特庞普店的好；牛腩面条汤好像愈喝愈美味；有一道用平底锅煎炸的意大利方饺，名叫“黄金大理石”，用嫩豆腐做馅，辅以虾肉和芫荽，口感细腻迷人。弗吉尼亚海滩店的点心菜单是张先生的妻子设计的。我点了一道煎炸叉烧包，这是拱形的发面包子，用略带甜味的猪肉做馅。就算为了尝尝别的点心是不是和它一样美味，我也肯定会当回头客的。
The fans who say that the best Peter Chang restaurant is the one where Mr. Chang is cooking may be on to something. The best of my three meals, start to finish, was the one in Short Pump. But the others still offered cooking of unusual power and subtlety, and introduced me to dishes I’ll remember for a long time. In fact, I could make a strong case that the best Peter Chang restaurant is the nearest one, as long as you order so many things that the server starts to act as if you might be insane. And then eat until you think you can’t hold any more.
拥趸们说，张鹏亮旗下最好的餐厅就是他亲自下厨的那一家，这或许不是空穴来风。在我吃过的这三顿饭里，从头到尾，最好的确实还要算肖特庞普店的那顿。但其他两家的菜肴也充满非凡的魅力与细腻的口感，让我领略了不少难以忘怀的菜色。其实我强烈认为，最好的张鹏亮餐厅就是离你家最近的那一家，你只要点上一大堆菜，直到侍者觉得你可能是疯了，然后就一直吃到再也吃不下为止吧。
For that, Mr. Brock has developed a strategy: “You run outside, you go to the parking lot, you run around, you go to the bathroom, you splash cold water on your face until you can eat again.” When that stops working, he said, he orders it all again, to take home.
对此，布洛克有个办法：“你可以跑出去，到停车场里跑圈，去厕所用凉水冲把脸，直到有胃口回来接着吃为止。”他说，等到这也不管用了，那就把刚才那些菜再点一遍，统统打包带回家。