SYDNEY, Australia — The Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, said on Thursday that satellite imagery had detected floating objects in the southern Indian Ocean that might be parts of the missing Malaysia Airlines jet that vanished on March 8. But he and an Australian rescue organizer both counseled caution about the sighting.
澳大利亚悉尼——澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)周四表示，通过卫星图像在南印度洋发现了一些漂浮物，这些物体可能是3月8日失踪的马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)客机的组成部分。但他和澳大利亚一名搜索行动的组织者都建议对这些发现持谨慎态度。
“The Australian Maritime Safety Authority has received information based on satellite information of objects possibly related to the search,” Mr. Abbott told Australia’s Parliament in Canberra, the national capital. “Following specialist analysis of this satellite imagery, two possible objects related to the search have been identified.”
“澳大利亚海事安全局获得了一些物体的卫星图像信息，这些物体可能与失踪客机有关。”阿博特在澳大利亚首都堪培拉对澳大利亚议会说。“在专家对卫星图像进行了分析之后，已经发现了两个可能与失踪客机有关的物体。”
Mr. Abbott said an Australian Air Force Orion surveillance plane would fly to the area off the coast of Western Australia and arrive later Thursday. Three more aircraft would follow, he said. Mr. Abbott said he had told Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, of the developments.
阿博特说，一架澳大利亚空军(Australian Air Force)猎户座(Orion)巡逻机将飞往这个位于澳大利亚西部海岸附近的地区，并于周四晚些时候抵达。他说，随后还会有三架飞机前往。阿博特说，他已经向马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)通报了这些情况。
Yet Mr. Abbott also cautioned that “we must keep in mind the task of locating these objects will be extremely difficult, and it may turn out that they are not related to the search” for Flight 370 and its 239 passengers and crew, whose routine flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing disappeared, sparking a search lasting nearly two weeks that has brought almost daily reports of apparent sightings that have later been discredited.
然而阿博特也提醒说，“我们必须谨记于心的是，找到这些物体的任务将极其艰难，结果有可能是这些物体与失踪飞机毫无关系。”失踪的370航班载有239名乘客和机组成员，在从吉隆坡飞往北京的途中消失，这引发了持续将近两周的搜索行动，在此期间，几乎每天都会有一些看似有价值的发现，但这些发现随后均被推翻。
John Young, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority’s emergency response division general manager, who is overseeing the ocean search off Australia, sought to calibrate any hopes that parts of the plane might have been found. One object, he said, appeared to be around 24 meters long, but he could not describe the shape of the object, nor whether it had markings on it that would identify it.
澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)应急响应部门负责人约翰·扬(John Young)是该国近海的搜索行动的负责人。对于那些希望已经找到失踪客机的人们，他的话试图让他们冷静下来。他说，其中一个物体似乎大约长24米，但他无法形容其形状，也无法说出上面是否有表明其身份的标记。
“On this occasion, the size and the fact there are a number located in the same area makes it worth looking at,” Mr. Young said at a news conference in Canberra, adding that other search resources would be sent to the site.
扬在堪培拉的新闻发布会上说，“在这种情况下，鉴于这个物体的大小，以及有多个物体位于同一区域的事实，这些物体就值得关注。”他还说，将会向该区域派遣更多搜索力量。
“This is a lead, it is probably the best lead we have right now,” he said, “They are credible sightings. The indications to me are of objects that are of reasonable size and awash with water.”
“这是一个线索，它可能是我们目前拥有的最有价值的线索，”他说，“它们是可靠的发现。在我看来，信息指向了一些尺寸很大，漂在水上的物体。”
He said that part of the south Indian Ocean is liable to contain some large debris, such as containers lost overboard from merchant vessels. An Australian Air Force plane has been asked to drop marker buoys near the objects, which searchers can keep in sight to track the pieces as currents move them. Four other aircraft and several ships were rerouted to the area, Mr. Young said.
他说，南印度洋的那个区域可能存在一些大型的垃圾，比如商船上滚下来的集装箱。澳大利亚空军的一艘飞机被要求在物体附近投掷浮标，这样一来，搜寻人员可以看到这些浮标，追踪这些跟随洋流移动的物体。扬说，另外四架飞机和几艘船只也改变了原来的航线，正在前往这一地区。
The area is four hours’ flying time from Perth for the RAAF Orion P-3, which allows the surveillance aircraft to spend two hours of search time at the site. The Royal Australian Navy ship Success was en route to the area but was some days away. “She is well equipped to recover any objects located and proven to be from MH370,” the maritime authority said in a statement.
从佩思乘坐澳大利亚皇家空军猎户座P-3飞机抵达该地区需要四个小时。这意味着，这种型号的巡逻机在该地区可以搜寻两个小时。澳大利亚皇家海军的船只“成功号(Success)”正在前往该地区的路上，但是还要几天才能抵达。该国海军在一份声明中说，“她已经装备齐全，将回收任何位置确定、并被证明来自马航370航班的物体。”
A merchant ship that responded to a call to examine the objects was expected to arrive in the area around 6 p.m. Sydney time, Mr. Young said.
扬说，一艘商船响应了调查这些物体的呼吁，预计将在悉尼时间傍晚六点左右抵达该区域。
An Australian official said the objects were about 2,500 kilometers, or 1,550 miles, southwest of Perth, the capital of Western Australia.
一名澳大利亚官员说，这些物体位于西澳大利亚州首府佩思西南方向大约2500公里，即1550英里的位置。