For Joan Childs, southeast Portland, Ore., is the model New Urbanist neighborhood: mixed-income and mixed-use, with small-scale streets. “I almost cried realizing I was ‘home,’ ” she said, recalling her first tour of the area after moving there.
对琼·蔡尔兹(Joan Childs)而言，俄勒冈州波特兰市(Portland, Ore.)的东南部地带，是标准的新都市主义住宅区：这里住着各个收入阶层的居民，混杂分布着多种功能的建筑，街道规模偏小。“我突然发现自己回到了‘家’，差点失声尖叫起来，”她回忆起自己搬来后第一次四处转悠的情景。
Ms. Childs, 65, the founder of the market research firm J.S.C. Consumer Insights, and her husband, Jerry Zaret, 71, an account executive at Grey Advertising, had been Manhattanites for more than three decades. Over those years, they shuttled back and forth to a series of vacation houses in Seaside, Fla., the New Urbanist town that was in keeping with their car-free lifestyle.
今年65岁的蔡尔兹是市场调研公司J.S.C. Consumer Insights的创始人，而她丈夫，今年71岁的杰里·萨雷特(Jerry Zaret)是Grey Advertising公司的客户经理，他们已经做了三十多年的曼哈顿人。在那些年，他们常常往返于曼哈顿与佛罗里达州滨海城(Seaside, Fla.)的一系列度假别墅之间。那是一座崇尚新都市主义的城市，正符合他们不开车的生活方式。
After retiring in 1997, they spent a decade in Park City, Utah, and Telluride, Colo., but “living in the snowy mountains and being car dependent just doesn’t make sense in your senior years,” Ms. Childs said.
他俩于1997年双双退休后，在科罗拉多州(Colo.)的公园城(Park City)、犹他市(Utah)和特柳赖德市(Telluride)相继待了十年，但是“人毕竟上了年纪，住在那些多雪的山区，出行又全靠开车，真的不太现实。”蔡尔兹说。
Attracted by the moderate climate and urban amenities, they moved to Portland in 2011, paying $1 million for a building that had been a corner grocery, a printing press and a mechanic’s shop. The intent was to construct an industrial loft on top inspired by the couple’s former apartment in TriBeCa. “We lived in New York in the heyday of loft conversions,” Ms. Childs said. “The rawer it was, the cooler you were.”
由于喜欢温和的气候与都市设施的便利，他俩于2011年搬到了波特兰市，并花100万美元（约合人民币621万元）买下了曾是街角杂货店兼文印店及汽车修理铺的一栋建筑。他们打算在其顶部建一处工业风格的跃层房屋，这个设计源自夫妇俩以前在翠贝卡(TriBeCa)社区住过的一套公寓。“我们在纽约生活的时候，正赶上跃层改建潮的鼎盛时期，”蔡尔兹说，“改得越原汁原味，就显得你越酷。”
Though the 8,000-square-foot one-story building had great bones, it also had what Ms. Childs called a “go-go ’60s-style” exterior. “It was orange and yellow, and it had palm trees outside, which didn’t seem terribly vernacular,” she said.
虽然这座占地面积8000平方英尺（约743平方米）的单层建筑有良好的结构框架，但也有蔡尔兹所说的“60年代摇摆舞风格”的外部设计。“外墙被涂成了橘红和黄色，屋外还有些棕榈树，看上去不是很有地方特色。”她说。
Admiring how Emerick Architects, a local studio, had rehabbed a nearby Ford Model T factory to fit within the area, where warehouses nudge up against hip restaurants and modest brick houses, the couple hired the firm to take a similar approach for their home.
这对夫妇很喜欢当地一家建筑工作室Emerick Architects的设计，该公司修缮了附近的一座福特T型车(Ford Model T)制造厂，使之与整个区域环境相融。在这片地方，仓库类的建筑比那些时尚餐厅和普通砖砌住宅略胜一筹。他们于是聘请了这家公司，为俩人的家也进行一次类似的改造。
The 2,400-square-foot second-story loft is lined with 13-foot-high windows, custom-made to replicate 1930s steel-framed factory windows — albeit in double-paned glass and wood. There are few interior walls; instead, a massive fireplace anchors the main space, where the couple lounge, cook and eat. A single slim bedroom and bathroom are tucked off to one side.
他们为这处面积2400平方英尺（约223平方米）的两层复式房屋订制了一排13英尺（约4米）高的双层玻璃木窗，来替换20世纪30年代的铁框厂房窗。这处跃层结构中几乎没有内墙；不过有一座超大的壁炉，坐落在主生活区，也就是夫妻俩起居、烹饪与进餐的地方。还有一间单独的狭长卧室及浴室，被安置在一侧。
“We added subtle historical cues, so it wouldn’t become a theme park,” Ms. Childs said, indicating a nine-foot-square steel fire door that closes off the main room and looks like sculpture as much as a divider. Track lighting imitates an old sprinkler system, punctuated with antique sprinkler heads and pressure gauges for decorative flair.
“我们还增添了一些历史痕迹，所以这里不会变成一座主题公园，”蔡尔兹说，她指的是一扇9平方英尺（约0.84平方米）的防火钢门。这道门将主房间隔绝开来，看起来既像一尊雕塑，又是一道屏障。这里的轨道式照明灯组被仿造成了一套自动喷淋消防系统；几个古老的喷头和压力表分布其间，更起到了以假乱真的作用。
Most of the furnishings are reclaimed, vintage or locally made. Rough-hewed coffee tables were built with wood farmhouse beams, their surfaces dotted with whorls and swirls. The couple unearthed other items at salvage shops, including a vintage urinal that they turned into their bathroom sink. “We bought it because of its beautiful rusted patina, but the painters tried to refinish it,” Mr. Zaret said.
家具大多是旧物利用、古董老货或当地制造的。那几张粗粗劈成的咖啡桌是用农舍的木屋梁做的，桌面上还留着些螺旋形和旋涡形的木纹，作为装饰。夫妻俩还从旧物再利用商店淘来了其他东西，包括一只旧式尿壶，他们将其改为了浴室里的水池。“我们买下这只壶，就是看中了它美丽的铜绿锈色，但那些粉刷匠还打算把它重新抛光。”萨雷特说。
Ms. Childs added, “Throughout the project, we had to keep telling the workers: ‘No, don’t make it so perfect. An old warehouse shouldn’t be perfect.’ ”
蔡尔兹又补充说，“在整个工程进行期间，我们必须不断叮嘱工人：‘不不，别把这儿弄得太完美了。一间旧库房不应该那么完美无瑕。’”
But it can be practical. A 2,000-square-foot solar array on the roof allows the couple to receive money back from the electrical company every month despite the luxury of radiant-heat floors. Ms. Childs keeps planters brimming with chives, lemon thyme and sage in the wraparound garden, which also manages rainwater runoff.
但房子还是可以很实用的。有了屋顶那排2000平方英尺（约186平方米）的太阳能板，尽管夫妻俩过着用辐射式地板供暖的奢侈生活，每月仍能从电力公司得到退费。蔡尔兹还在房屋四面环绕的花园里，种满了香葱、柠檬百里香和鼠尾草等植物。这座花园还发挥着导流雨水的作用。
Downstairs, an existing guest apartment was supplemented with a model-train room, bathroom, weight room and two-car garage, where they park their Mini. The other bay is used as an indoor dog run on rainy days.
楼下是一套可以随时入住的客用公寓，以及一间火车模型室、一间浴室、一间健身房和一间有两车位的车库，他们在里面停着自己那辆Mini汽车。另一片区域，则用作下雨天的室内遛狗场。