It has been more than two decades since the city faced a large-scale strike by the doormen’s union. But this could change when its contract expires on April 20.
纽约市自从上次面对门卫工会的大规模罢工后，已度过了二十多年风平浪静的日子。但在今年的4月20日，该工会合同到期的那一天，局势或将再度发生改变。
I remember well the citywide strike in 1991. I was in high school at the time and unaware of a contract dispute until I returned home from school one day to find a beefy security guard standing at our front door in place of Dean, the doorman who had greeted me with a high-five and a smile for as long as I could remember.
对于1991年的那次大罢工，我记得非常清楚。当时我还在读高中，并没有意识到什么合同纠纷，直到有一天我放学回家，发现站在我家公寓大门口的是位身材壮实的保安，而不是那个每次都会对我微笑、并和我击掌问候的门卫迪恩(Dean)了。
Doormen often play a strange role in the city’s psyche. They are a continual presence in the lives of those who live in buildings that employ them: buzzing up friends, standing in the snow to hail a cab, entertaining a cranky toddler with a lollipop. They know intimate details of your life, but typically, you know little of theirs.
门卫，在这座城市的精神面貌中，常常扮演一个奇怪的角色。在那些雇用他们的大楼里，他们是住户生活中一成不变的存在：为你“哔”地一声开门、让朋友们上楼，为你站在雪地里拦出租车，还会用一根棒棒糖与正在蹒跚学步的小淘气鬼逗着玩儿。他们对你生活中的一点一滴了如指掌，但你对他们却往往一无所知。
The doormen last negotiated their contract in 2010, when the city was still recovering from the recession and real estate values were soft. Now, however, the market is healthier and in some places even stronger than during the peak of the last real estate cycle. There is also a new mayor who came to office with strong union support.
门卫们上一次就合同条款进行谈判，是在2010年。当时，这座城市刚刚从经济衰退中恢复过来，房地产的市值还处于疲软状态。但如今，市场行情愈发稳健，有些地方的价格甚至超过了上个周期的高峰点。而且，一位大力支持工会组织的新市长已经就任。
In light of this new reality, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, which represents some 30,000 doormen, porters, superintendents and handymen in 3,300 buildings citywide, could argue for a significant wage increase. And like many negotiations, this one is expected to go down to the wire.
鉴于这种新情况，服务业雇员国际工会(Service Employees International Union)旗下的纽约本地工会组织、代表着纽约市3300栋大楼里约三万名门卫、搬运工、监督员与勤杂工的 Local 32BJ，可能会要求好好涨一次薪水。而正如许多次谈判一样，这次谈判也即将到达决胜关头。
“It is a much better market than in 2010,” said Héctor J. Figueroa, the president of 32BJ. “If they are prepared to recognize that these are different times, it should be a smooth process.”
“市场比2010年好了很多，”32BJ的主席艾克多·J·菲格罗亚(Héctor J. Figueroa)说，“如果他们已经意识到这种世易时移的情况，过程将会非常顺利。”
Howard Rothschild, president of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, said in a statement, “Negotiations with the union are going extremely well so far and we expect to reach an agreement that both parties can be proud of.” 
房地产业劳动关系咨询委员会(Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations)的主席霍华德·罗特席尔德(Howard Rothschild)也在一份致辞中说，“目前与工会的谈判进行得非常顺利，所以我们期待达成一项双方都能为之感到骄傲的协议。”
As the union participates in the negotiations, it is also focusing on expanding its reach. In particular, the union has pinpointed new buildings that have sprouted up along the High Line, as the popularity of the elevated park has pushed real estate values in the area to new highs. Several of the luxury condos there do not employ union doormen, a fact that Mr. Figueroa calls “an outlier in the marketplace.”
该工会在进行谈判的同时，也在集中精力扩展势力范围。他们特别锁定了高线公园(High Line)沿途涌现出来的一些新建楼宇，因为这座高架公园的人气已将该片区的地产价格推上新高。这里也有几栋豪华共管公寓楼，并没有聘请加入工会的门卫。菲格罗亚将此现象称为“市场中的个别情况”。
“The city rezoned the High Line neighborhood and gave a tremendous amount of incentives to develop that area,” he said, “and now some of the buildings have decided not to give back to the community with good paying jobs.”
“纽约市将高线公园社区重新分区，并补贴了一大笔钱来进行开发，”他说，“但是现在，有些公寓楼却不想以收入丰厚的工作岗位来回报社区。”
Several developers I spoke with said that hiring union employees raises a building’s expenses by as much as 40 percent, which can translate into much higher monthly common charges for apartment owners. Firing a union employee who is not working out can also be more arduous.
我交流过的几位开发商说，聘请工会成员会让公寓楼的开支增加40%之多，而这笔开支对那些公寓业主而言，会变成每个月要缴纳一笔更高的物业费。而且聘请一名不太实用的工会雇员，可能也会非常繁琐。
Nonunion buildings include 231 10th Avenue, 245 10th Avenue and 200 Eleventh Avenue, called the “sky garage” because it has private garages attached to each of its apartments. The high-rise on 11th Avenue was recently in the news as the home of L’Wren Scott, the clothing designer and girlfriend of Mick Jagger, who took her own life there. The building has many multimillion-dollar units, including a penthouse that is on the market for $23 million.
这里的几栋非工会大楼，包括第10大道231号、第10大道245号，以及有“空中停车场”之称的第11大道200号，因为那里每套公寓都带有私家车库。第11大道的这栋高层建筑最近上了新闻，因为这里是服装设计师兼米克·贾格(Mick Jagger)的女友劳伦·斯科特(L’Wren Scott)的家，她已在家中自杀身亡。这栋大楼还有许多身价数百万的公寓，包括一套市场售价2300万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元）的顶层豪华公寓。
Many nonunion buildings either hire a third-party vendor who employs the doormen and other staff, or, less frequently, hire nonunion workers directly. Nonunion building staff members typically earn wages similar to those of union employees, but often do not receive health benefits or a pension plan, said Dan Wurtzel, the president of FirstService Residential New York, a property management company.
有许多处于工会势力范围之外的大楼，或雇用某个第三方运营商来聘请门卫和其他员工，或退而求其次，直接雇用未加入工会的雇员。这些大楼里的雇员虽然能领到与有工会的雇员相似的薪水，却往往没有健康福利或养老保险，一家物业公司FirstService Residential New York的总裁丹·沃泽尔(Dan Wurtzel)说。
“There are plenty of buildings along the High Line with very large apartments, but not very large buildings, so to keep costs down they will not hire union workers,” Mr. Wurtzel said. While it is less expensive, there is typically more employee turnover at buildings that do not have union doormen, he added.
“高线公园沿线有许多带有大户型公寓的住宅楼，但它们本身并不是非常高大。所以，为了不断降低成本，他们不会去聘请来自工会的雇员，”沃泽尔说。虽然人力成本不再那么昂贵，但在未聘请有工会门卫的大楼里，员工的流动也往往更为频繁，他补充说。
The many new high-rise condominiums around the High Line that are nonunion buildings illustrate a larger shift afoot. Not only have new-construction luxury condominiums pushed prices ever higher here, they have also seized much of the cachet that was once the sole dominion of the city’s large co-op buildings.
在高线公园周围，许多属于非工会所辖建筑的新共管公寓大厦，演绎出一种日新月异的改变。那些新建的奢华共管公寓大楼，不仅已经把这里的地产价格推上前所未有的高度，而且还攫取了许多曾是纽约那些大型合作公寓楼所独有的标志。
In particular, new-construction condominiums are a marked contrast to the staid co-ops of Park and Fifth Avenues. These broad streets have served for the last century as historic corridors of status, their understated elegance and unionized doormen in gold-buttoned uniforms and white gloves serving as globally recognizable markers of success.
尤其，相对于公园大道(Park Avenue)与第五大道(Fifth Avenue)之间的那些老式合作公寓楼而言，那些新建的共管公寓楼，形成了一种鲜明对比。那两条宽阔的街道，在过去一百年来已经成为身份、地位的历史长廊；其中那些合作公寓楼不言而喻的优雅，与那些戴着白手套、穿着镶金纽扣制服并加入了工会的门卫们，已经成为全世界都能认出的成功标志。
But now, these images are considered passé in some circles. Consider Tom Wolfe’s “Bonfire of the Vanities.” Published just a few years before the last citywide doorman strike, his Master of the Universe slaved away at an investment bank and coveted a Classic Six on Park Avenue. These days, titans of business are more likely to be founders of billion-dollar tech start-ups and living in sprawling penthouses downtown.
但现在，这些形象在有些圈子里，已被当成了落伍。想想汤姆·乌尔夫(Tom Wolfe)刚好在纽约上一次门卫大罢工的前几年出版的那本《浮华的篝火》(Bonfire of the Vanities)吧，书中号称“宇宙之王”的主人公在一家投资银行埋头苦干，并觊觎着一套位于公园大道的“经典六居室”公寓（Classic Six，1940年前的纽约公寓楼里，那种带六个房间的经典公寓——译注）。而目前，更有可能成为商业巨头的，是那些价值数十亿美元的科技创业公司的创始人，住在散布于下城区的那些豪华顶层公寓里。
Co-ops on Park and Fifth Avenues had a median price of $2.04 million in 2013, or 8 percent less than the price in 2009, according to the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. Condos in SoHo and TriBeCa had a median price last year of $2.84 million, a nearly 16 percent jump over the same period. This turn of events has prompted Frederick Peters, the president of Warburg Realty, to call the co-op market “a value play.”
据房产评估机构Miller Samuel的数据，2013年，公园大道和第五大道上的合作公寓中间价为204万美元（约合人民币1276万元），比2009年的中间价下跌了8%。而去年，苏豪区(SoHo)和翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的共管公寓中间价为284万美元（约合人民币1777万元）。同样经过四年时间，价格却上涨了将近16%。这种形势变化，使得Warburg Realty地产公司的总裁弗雷德里克·彼得斯(Frederick Peters)将这里的合作公寓市场称作“一场价值游戏”。
Adam Gordon, the developer of a luxury boutique condominium at 560 West 24th Street, said “The days of being ‘clubbable,’ passing the gauntlet of uptown co-op boards, with their xenophobia and pretense, is over. New York City is the ultimate meritocracy. Condominium buildings offer that freedom; anyone who can write the check can buy the apartment.”
西24街560号的一栋精品豪华共管公寓楼的开发商亚当·戈登(Adam Gordon)说，“那种扮出‘善于交际’的姿态，以便能通过上城区一些排外又做作的合作公寓董事会考评的日子，已经一去不复返了。纽约市是座极其崇尚精英文化的城市，而这些共管公寓楼则提供了那样的自由。因为不管是谁，只要能开出支票，就能买下那里的公寓。”
Mr. Gordon has chosen not to hire union employees at his new condo project. “It’s about freedom of choice as much as it is about economics,” he said. “The unions, with their threats, strikes and rats, are for many, part of the dark New York past people wish to leave behind.”
戈登在他新的共管公寓项目中，也没有选择聘请来自工会的雇员。“这是一种选择上的自由，同样也是一种经济上的考虑，”他说，“那些只会示威、罢工和胡言乱语的工会组织，对许多人来说，是他们不愿再经历的纽约黑暗时代的一部分。”
But while some cling to this new ethos of condos, plenty of New Yorkers relish traditional co-op living. Indeed, last week a 16-room co-op at 960 Fifth Avenue that had belonged to Edgar Bronfman Sr., the former chairman of the Seagram Company and the former president of the World Jewish Congress, shattered records when it went into contract for a reported $70 million, $5 million over the asking price.
然而，尽管有人会忠实于这种新型共管公寓，还是有大量的纽约人乐于享受传统合作公寓的生活。的确如此，比如上周（指4月6日当周——译注），原属于施格兰公司(Seagram Company)前任主席兼世界犹太人大会(World Jewish Congress)会长、老埃德加·布朗夫曼(Edgar Bronfman Sr.)的一套位于第五大道960号、带16个房间的合作公寓，据报道以7000万美元（约合人民币4.4亿元）的价格签署了合同。这个价格，超出了要价500万美元（约合人民币3128.3万元），打破了房产交易记录。