SANIBEL, Fla.
佛罗里达州萨尼伯尔
AT an office party in 2005, one of my colleagues asked my then husband what I did on weekends. She knew me as someone with great intensity and energy. “Does she kayak, go rock climbing and then run a half marathon?” she joked. No, he answered simply, “she sleeps.” And that was true. When I wasn’t catching up on work, I spent my weekends recharging my batteries for the coming week. Work always came first, before my family, friends and marriage — which ended just a few years later.
在2005年的一次工作聚会中，我的一个同事问我当时的丈夫，我在周末都做些什么。她把我视为一个高度热情且精力充沛的人。“她是否去划皮划艇，去攀岩并随后跑上半程马拉松呢？”她半开玩笑地说。不，他简单地答道：“她睡觉。”而这确实不假。在周末时间，我不是在加班，就是在为自己的下一周充电。工作曾永远都排在我的家庭、朋友和婚姻之前，而我的婚姻在几年后就终结了。
In recent weeks I have been following with interest the escalating debate about work-life balance and the varying positions of Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg, Marissa Mayer of Yahoo and the academic Anne-Marie Slaughter, among others. Since I resigned my position as chief financial officer of Lehman Brothers in 2008, amid mounting chaos and a cloud of public humiliation only months before the company went bankrupt, I have had ample time to reflect on the decisions I made in balancing (or failing to balance) my job with the rest of my life. The fact that I call it “the rest of my life” gives you an indication where work stood in the pecking order.
在最近几周里，我一直饶有兴趣地关注一场不断升级的讨论，内容是关于工作和生活的平衡，以及Facebook的谢莉尔‧桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)、雅虎(Yahoo)的玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)和学者安妮-玛丽·斯劳特(Anne-Marie Slaughter)等人在这方面采纳的立场。我在2008年辞去了雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)首席财务官的职务，当时该公司正处于日益恶化的混乱局面与公开羞辱的阴云之中，并在几个月后破产。自那之后，我拥有了充足的时间，来反省在平衡（或未能平衡）我的工作和我剩余的生活时，我所做出的决定。我称之为“我剩余的生活”这个事实应该让你明白，工作对我而言曾经占据的地位。
I don’t have children, so it might seem that my story lacks relevance to the work-life balance debate. Like everyone, though, I did have relationships — a spouse, friends and family — and none of them got the best version of me. They got what was left over.
我没有孩子，因此我的故事可能似乎与平衡工作-生活的讨论并无多大关联。然而就像每个人一样，我也拥有各种关系，有配偶、朋友和家庭，而他们都没有遇到那个最好的我，他们看到的只是我的残余。
I didn’t start out with the goal of devoting all of myself to my job. It crept in over time. Each year that went by, slight modifications became the new normal. First I spent a half-hour on Sunday organizing my e-mail, to-do list and calendar to make Monday morning easier. Then I was working a few hours on Sunday, then all day. My boundaries slipped away until work was all that was left.
我其实也没有从一开始就计划把自己完全奉献于工作，我是逐渐变成那个样子的。在我所度过的每一年里，轻微的改变总会变成新的常态。首先，我会在周日花上半小时整理邮件、任务清单和日历，来让周一的早晨轻松些。随后我会在周日工作数小时，然后变成了全天。我的底线不断下移，直到工作占据了一切。
Inevitably, when I left my job, it devastated me. I couldn’t just rally and move on. I did not know how to value who I was versus what I did. What I did was who I was.
不可避免的是，当我离开自己的工作时，感觉万念俱灰。我无法轻松地恢复过来，继续前进。在对比我的为人和我的作为时，我不知道该如何评价。我的作为变成了我的全部。
I have spent several years now living a different version of my life, where I try to apply my energy to my new husband, Anthony, and the people whom I love and care about. But I can’t make up for lost time. Most important, although I now have stepchildren, I missed having a child of my own. I am 47 years old, and Anthony and I have been trying in vitro fertilization for several years. We are still hoping.
现在，我已经在一个不同版本的生活中经历了数年时间，在这里我试着把我的能量花在我的现任丈夫安东尼(Anthony)身上，还有其他那些我所关爱的人。但我无法弥补失去的时间。最重要的是，尽管我现在有了继子女，我却渴望自己能生一个孩子。我已经47岁了，我和安东尼已经花了好几年的时间尝试体外受精。我们现在仍抱着希望。
Sometimes young women tell me they admire what I’ve done. As they see it, I worked hard for 20 years and can now spend the next 20 focused on other things. But that is not balance. I do not wish that for anyone. Even at the best times in my career, I was never deluded into thinking I had achieved any sort of rational allocation between my life at work and my life outside.
有时，一些年轻女性告诉我，她们对我的成就感到钦佩。在她们看来，我花了20年时间努力工作，现在可以花接下来20年来关注其他事情。但这不是平衡，我不希望任何人像我一样。即便在我职业生涯中的最佳时刻，我也没有自欺欺人地认为，在我的生命中，我已经让工作和工作之外的生活达到了某种合理配置。
I have often wondered whether I would have been asked to be C.F.O. if I had not worked the way that I did. Until recently, I thought my singular focus on my career was the most powerful ingredient in my success. But I am beginning to realize that I sold myself short. I was talented, intelligent and energetic. It didn’t have to be so extreme. Besides, there were diminishing returns to that kind of labor.
我常常会进行思考，假如我没有像过去那么努力地工作，我是否还会成为首席财务官。直到近期，我还认为，我对于职业的专一关注，是我成功的最强要素。但我已经开始意识到，我其实是把自己贱卖了。我曾是个有天赋、聪明且充满活力的人。生活完全不需要那么极端。此外，我对工作的投入产生了效益递减效应。
I didn’t have to be on my BlackBerry from my first moment in the morning to my last moment at night. I didn’t have to eat the majority of my meals at my desk. I didn’t have to fly overnight to a meeting in Europe on my birthday. I now believe that I could have made it to a similar place with at least some better version of a personal life. Not without sacrifice — I don’t think I could have “had it all” — but with somewhat more harmony.
我其实并不需要从早晨起来的第一时刻，到晚上睡前的最后一秒，都一直关注着自己的黑莓手机(BlackBerry)。我并不需要大多数时候都在办公桌上吃饭。我并不需要在我生日那天乘坐红眼航班到欧洲去开会。我现在相信，即便我的个人生活变得更好一些，我还是应当能够得到一份类似的工作。这并不是说没有牺牲，我并不认为我可以“鱼与熊掌兼得”，但我的生活至少可以更加和谐一些。
I have also wondered where I would be today if Lehman Brothers hadn’t collapsed. In 2007, I did start to have my doubts about the way I was living my life. Or not really living it. But I felt locked in to my career. I had just been asked to be C.F.O. I had a responsibility. Without the crisis, I may never have been strong enough to step away. Perhaps I needed what felt at the time like some of the worst experiences in my life to come to a place where I could be grateful for the life I had. I had to learn to begin to appreciate what was left.
有时我还会思考，假如雷曼兄弟没有倒闭，今天的我将会是什么样子。2007年，我的确曾开始怀疑自己的生活方式，或者说怀疑自己其实没有真正的生活。但我感到自己被锁在了工作里。当时我刚刚成为首席财务官，这意味着我担负了一种责任。如果没有那次危机，我可能永远无法坚强地离开。或许我需要当时的那种感觉，那种我生命中最糟糕的经历，来让自己能够到达今天的状态，而对生活充满感激。我必须学会开始重视生活中所剩下的一切。
At the end of the day, that is the best guidance I can give. Whatever valuable advice I have about managing a career, I am only now learning how to manage a life.
总而言之，这些就是我所能给出的最佳建议了。不论我对于规划职业有什么宝贵建议，现在我才刚刚开始学习如何规划生活。