Hong Kong residents have a lot to contend with. Soaring real estate prices. High pollution levels. Political meddling from mainland China. And, in at least one pricey neighborhood famous for its racetrack, unexploded American ordnance from World War II.
让香港居民头疼的问题很多。不断飙升的房价、严重的污染、来自大陆的政治干预，以及对至少在以赛马场闻名的一处价格昂贵地段的人来说，还有二次世界大战期间美军留下的未爆的炸弹。
The discovery Thursday of a 2,000-pound bomb at a construction site in the Happy Valley neighborhood led to the evacuation of more than 2,000 people, including tourists staying at the Cosmopolitan hotel, and workers at the local headquarters of Xinhua, the state-run Chinese news agency. The site, where a new hotel is being built, is just a short distance from the Happy Valley racetrack, which draws tens of thousands of people to its Wednesday night races.
周四在跑马地附近一个建筑工地发现的一枚重达2000磅的炸弹，导致2000多人被迫疏散，包括住在丽都酒店(Cosmopolitan hotel)的游客，以及国家通讯社新华社亚太分社的工作人员。这是一个正在建造一座新酒店的工地，离跑马地马场不远，马场周三晚的赛马能吸引上万的观众。
According to the South China Morning Post, the bomb was one of the largest of its kind dropped by the United States on Hong Kong, and it forced authorities to clear everyone within a 200-yard radius as explosives experts carefully worked to dismantle the device.
根据《南华早报》消息，这枚炸弹是美军投到香港的同类炸弹中最重的一种，它迫使当局撤离了其半径约200米以内的所有人员，与此同时，炸药专家小心翼翼地将炸弹拆除。
Hong Kong was occupied by Japanese forces during World War II, with the Japanese attacking the British territory just hours after they bombed Pearl Harbor in December of 1941, plunging the United States into the war. Within a year, American sorties were staging air raids on strategic targets in Hong Kong, then the subject of a brutal occupation by Japan. Since the end of the war in 1945, unexploded bombs have occasionally been found in construction sites in the densely crowded territory.
二战期间日本曾占领香港，日本在1941年12月袭击珍珠港(Pearl Harbor)几小时之后也向香港这个英国殖民地发起袭击。珍珠港事件将美国卷入战争，不到一年后，美国开始对被日本强暴占领的香港的战略目标进行轰炸。自从1945年二战结束以来，偶尔会在这个人口密集城市中发现未爆的炸弹。
By 10 a.m. Friday, explosives experts had deactivated the bomb, and people who had been cleared from the hotel and nearby offices were allowed to return. Officials said the bomb had the explosive power of 1,000 pounds of TNT.
到周五上午10点，炸药专家已经拆除了这枚炸弹，从酒店和附近办公楼撤出的人们得以返回。官方称，这枚炸弹具有相当于1000磅TNT的爆破力。