HONG KONG —Cheng Chunmeng, the general manager of a manufacturer of colorful children’s chairs in east-central China, gave his workers a 30 percent raise last year to keep them from leaving. His labor costs are rising even faster in dollar terms, as the Chinese currency slowly climbs against the United States dollar.
香港——位于中国中东部地区的一家彩色儿童椅制造商的总经理程春萌去年给工人涨了30%的工资，以便留住他们。如果按美元算，他的劳动力成本上升还要快，因为人民币相对美元正在慢慢升值。
Yet Mr. Cheng, like many Chinese exporters, enjoys growing sales to the United States. “I saw a remarkable increase in orders from the United States starting in March, and getting better and better since then,” Mr. Cheng said. “I feel 2014 will be an even better year.”
但像很多中国出口商一样，程春萌的产品在美国非常畅销。“从3月开始，美国的订单大幅增加，后来情况就越来越好，”程春萌说。“我觉得2014年会更好。”
Export gains like Mr. Cheng’s suggest that despite years of predictions of trouble for China’s export juggernaut, it has not yet been derailed by fast-rising costs for blue-collar labor, by an appreciating Chinese currency or by foreign investment shifts toward other, lower-wage Asian countries.
尽管多年来一直存在中国出口业将面临困境的预测，但像程春萌这样的出口增长案例表明，快速上涨的蓝领劳动力成本、人民币升值，以及外国投资转向其他工资水平较低的亚洲国家等因素并没有影响出口的走向。
China announced on Friday morning its largest annual trade surplus in dollar terms since 2008, as the surplus widened another 12.8 percent compared to 2012, reaching $259.75 billion. China very narrowly surpassed the United States in 2012 as the world's biggest trading nation in combined exports and imports and appears to have widened its lead last year, although December data for the United States will not come out until next month.
周五上午，中国公布了自2008年以来以美元计的最大年度贸易顺差，相比2012年又拉大了12.8%，达到2597.5亿美元。2012年中国以微弱优势超过美国，成为世界最大的进出口贸易国。双方差距在去年似乎有所加大，不过美国要到下个月才会发布12月的数据。
China has kept its export machine running even while wages rise. Blue-collar pay has soared between fivefold and ninefold in dollar terms in the last decade, wrecking China’s reputation as a low-wage place for export-oriented manufacturing. Rocketing wages and benefits reflect an acute shortage of manufacturing labor, as a younger generation goes to college instead of heading for factories and as rural China has mostly run out of young adults to send to the cities.
即便工资不断增加，中国的出口业务依然持续发展。过去十年中，蓝领的工资按美元计飙升了五倍至九倍，中国出口导向型制造业工资水平低的名声因此遭到破坏。工资和福利的大幅增加反映出，随着年轻一代步入大学而不是工厂，中国农村地区已经基本上没有能够输送至城市的年轻人了，制造业出现严重的劳工短缺现象。
China’s exports, while growing more slowly than a few years ago, are still far from stalling despite the disappearance of its advantage in labor costs. Chinese exporters say they have been able to keep prices low and retain overseas customers because factories are becoming more productive. Much of the manufacturing has stayed in China because the highly developed supply chains leading to and from the factories remain among the best in the world.
尽管中国的出口跟几年前相比增长放缓，但失去劳工成本方面的优势远没有令它陷入停滞状态。中国出口商表示，工厂的生产力不断提高令他们能够保持低价，留住海外顾客。很多制造业务依然在中国完成，因为工厂上下游都高度完善的供应链依然属于世界最佳行列。
“We haven’t started thinking of moving to another country,” said Xiang Wenwei, the sales director of the China Mybaby Group, a 3,000-employee manufacturer of baby strollers in Ningbo that makes and assembles all of its major components. It relies on a dense web of suppliers near the factory for everything from raw materials to factory equipment maintenance.
中国妈咪宝集团销售总监项文尉说，“我们还没开始考虑转移到另一个国家。”这家位于宁波的婴儿车制造商拥有3000名员工，其主要组件都是由该工厂制作、组装完成。该公司依靠工厂周边密集的供应商获得从原材料到工厂设备保养的一切所需。
The trade gains for China are magnified because over the last several years many companies have shifted the production of components from high-wage Asian countries like Japan and South Korea to China itself. So China is producing more of the value in each product, and not just doing the final assembly of products produced elsewhere.
过去几年里很多公司将组件生产业务从日本和韩国等工资水平较高的亚洲国家转移到中国，扩大了中国的贸易增长。因此，中国从每一件产品中能产出更多的价值，不再只是对各地生产的产品进行最后的组装。
China has begun to account for more than half the American trade deficit in some months, including last November, partly because of rising production of shale gas and shale oil that has reduced America’s need to import energy. China was only a quarter to a third of the American deficit before the global financial crisis began in 2008. As the American economy continues to improve, economists predict that Americans will import even more from China.
在包括去年11月的某些月份中，中国开始在美国的贸易逆差中占到一半以上的份额，这跟页岩气及页岩油产量的增加促使美国对进口能源的需求有所下降有关。在2008年爆发全球金融危机之前，中国在美国贸易逆差中只占四分之一到三分之一的份额。随着美国经济继续好转，经济学家预测美国将从中国进口更多产品。
“The pickup in China’s trade surpluses could lead to rising trade tensions if they are perceived as holding back job growth in the U.S. and dampening the economic recovery,” said Eswar Prasad, a Brookings Institution economist specializing in China.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)研究中国问题的经济学家埃斯瓦尔·普拉萨德(Eswar Prasad)说， “如果人们认为中国贸易顺差的增加抑制了美国的就业增长，那这可能会致使贸易紧张关系加剧。”
The gradual recovery in demand in the United States and Europe is being partly absorbed by Chinese exporters instead of stimulating longer hours and further investment at factories closer to home. The unexpected strength in China’s export sector has weakened the West’s economic recovery and retarded job creation in the United States and Europe.
美国及欧洲地区逐步恢复的需求，有一部分正在被中国出口商吸纳，而不是促使距离美国及欧洲较近的工厂延长工作时间，获得更多投资。中国出口业出人意料的表现削弱了西方国家的经济复苏，阻碍了美国及欧洲创造就业的步伐。
Asked this week for their view on China’s trade surpluses, United States Treasury officials reiterated their opinion that the renminbi, China’s currency, remains significantly undervalued, which China denies, and said that rebalancing the Chinese economy remained incomplete.
当被问到对中国贸易顺差的看法时，美国财政部官员本周重申了他们的观点，即人民币的币值一直被大幅低估，而且中国经济的再平衡仍然尚未完成。
The composition of the American trade deficit with China is also shifting in ways that could affect employment in the United States, according to the latest American data, released on Tuesday. The American deficit is increasingly in goods classified by the United States Commerce Department as advanced technology products, notably consumer electronics, while starting to shrink in categories of lower value like shoes.
根据本周二美国公布的最新数据，对中国的贸易逆差构成也在转变，可能影响到美国的就业。美国的逆差越来越多地出现在被美国商务部划分为高科技产品的商品类别，尤其是消费电子产品，而鞋类等价值较低的类别则开始收窄。
Chinese leaders and some economists have contended for years that a decline in China’s export competitiveness is imminent, but their country has continued to post trade surpluses. They have used their predictions of slowing exports to justify resistance to pressure from Washington for faster appreciation of the renminbi against the dollar. The renminbi rose only 3.1 percent against the dollar last year, and weakened 1.2 percent against the euro.
中国领导人及部分经济学家多年来一直辩称，中国出口竞争力很快将开始下降，但该国持续出现贸易顺差。华盛顿在就加快人民币对美元的升值施加压力，而出口放缓的预测成了拒绝升值的理由。去年，人民币对美元升值仅3.1%，对欧元则贬值1.2%。
The question is how much longer China can remain the dominant exporter. Many economists still predict trouble ahead for Chinese exporters. “Even if there is an increase in the trade surplus, this is temporary,” said Diana Choyleva, a China specialist who is the head of macroeconomic research at Lombard Street Research in London.
问题是，中国还能在出口上强势多久？许多经济学家坚持预测，中国出口的前景不妙。“就算现在贸易顺差在增加，也是暂时的，”中国问题专家、伦敦朗伯德街研究公司(Lombard Street Research)的宏观经济研究总监黛安娜·乔伊列娃(Diana Choyleva)称。
She noted that when calculated in renminbi and adjusted for inflation, China’s exports actually fell in some months last summer, although they have strengthened considerably since last October. China’s trade surplus is also less than half as large as a share of national economic output compared with five years ago when the surplus was slightly larger in dollar terms. The Chinese economy has grown nearly 80 percent in nominal renminbi terms since then and doubled in dollar terms.
她指出，以人民币计算并排除通胀因素后，中国的出口实际上在去年夏天的某些月份里是下降了，尽管到10月份又得以显著加强。以美元计算的中国贸易顺差稍低于五年前，与国内经济总量的比值却仅为当时的一半不到。自那时起，以名义人民币计算，中国经济增长了近80%，以美元计算则实现了翻番。
Export figures for China were exaggerated by a few percentage points early last year as exporters overstated their shipments to circumvent Chinese controls on moving money into the country to speculate on further appreciation of the renminbi. But while some overstating of shipments may still take place, the strength in exports in recent months appears more genuine, particularly compared to an artificially high base of exports a year ago, said Louis Kuijs, a China economist in the Hong Kong office of the Royal Bank of Scotland.
去年初的中国出口数据被夸大了几个百分点，因为出口商虚报出货量以规避中国的管制——这些管制是要控制为了投机人民币进一步升值而进入中国的资金。不过，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)驻香港办公室的中国经济分析师高路易(Louis Kuijs)表示，尽管夸大出货量的情况仍有发生，但最近几个月的出口强势表现似乎更为真实，尤其是与一年前人为的出口高基准值相比。
“I have much more faith in the veracity of the numbers now,” he said.
“我现在对数据真实性的信心要大得多，”他说。
In separate interviews this week with nearly a dozen Chinese exporters, at Hong Kong trade fairs or by telephone, all said that their biggest problem lay in labor: finding enough blue-collar workers and paying for their soaring wages.
本周通过香港的展销会或电话分别采访的近12家中国出口商均表示，他们面临的最大问题是劳动力，也就是如何找到足够的蓝领工人，并负担得起他们正在飙升的工资。
Mr. Cheng said that a decade ago he paid about $75 a month for entry-level industrial workers and provided virtually no benefits. Now, he said, his 200-worker business, the Hangzhou Luyi Arts & Crafts Company, pays $570 a month plus $100 a month in government-mandated benefits.
程春萌说，10年前，他给初级工的月薪是75美元左右，几乎没有任何福利，而现在，他的杭州路屹工艺品公司约有200名工人，初级工月薪是570美元，外加政府规定的福利每月100美元。
That works out to compensation roughly three times as high as in Indonesia, four times as high as in Vietnam, five times as high as in Cambodia, and as much as 10 times as high as in Bangladesh. But all of those countries have other problems, such as overburdened, unreliable electricity grids, which force companies to install costly generators and buy expensive diesel instead.
这样的工资水平是印尼的三倍，越南的四倍，柬埔寨的五倍，孟加拉国的十倍。但是这些国家都存在其他问题，比如电网超负荷运行，很不可靠，企业不得不安装昂贵的发电机组，并购买昂贵的柴油来自己发电。
Like many companies in China, Hangzhou Luyi has responded to surging wages with increased investments in automation. “This machine takes the place of five workers,” Mr. Cheng said, sitting in a booth at a Hong Kong trade fair this week and pointing at a poster on his wall of a computer-controlled, die-cutting machine for producing chair components.
很多中国公司都像杭州路屹工艺品公司一样，为了应对急剧增高的工资水平，购买了更多的自动化设备。“这台机器可以当5个工人用。”在本周香港某展销会的一个展位里，程春萌指着墙上的一张海报说。海报上是一台计算机控制的模切机，用来生产座椅组件。
Similar investments at factories across China mean that fewer hours of labor typically go into each product. So labor costs per unit do not rise nearly as quickly as wages.
在中国各地的工厂中，类似的投资意味着生产每一个产品所需的劳动时间减少了。因此，单位劳动力成本的上升远比工资增长要慢。
Extremely heavy investment in new factories and new equipment, as the state-owned banking system continues to pump out credit at a remarkable pace, has also created considerable overcapacity. Exporters are unable to raise prices without losing overseas markets to nearby rivals. This prompts managers like Chen Yaping, executive director of the Zhejiang Daseng Stationery Company, a toymaker in Yiwu City, to focus increasingly on research and developing their own brands.
随着国有银行系统继续以惊人的速度发放贷款，在新工厂和新设备上投入巨大资金也造成了大量的产能过剩。出口商提高产品价格，海外市场势必会被附近的竞争对手抢走，这促使像陈亚平这样的管理者加大了研发自有品牌的力度。陈亚平是义乌市玩具制造商浙江大圣文化用品有限公司的执行董事。
Foreign investment in China has stagnated while surging in Southeast Asian rivals like Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam, setting off hand-wringing in Chinese media. But China still invests heavily in China. Domestic investment dwarfs foreign investment elsewhere in the region, leaving Chinese entrepreneurs and state-owned enterprises with more than enough cash to keep buying machinery.
外国投资规模在中国停滞不前，而在柬埔寨、印尼和越南等东南亚国家却急剧增长，这让中国媒体忧心忡忡。但中国仍然大量投资于国内。本国投资让该地区其他地方的外商投资相形见绌，也让中国企业家和国有企业有大量现金来继续购买机器设备。
A result of rising productivity and manufacturing overcapacity is that average prices for American imports from China have actually dropped 0.9 percent in the last year even as the renminbi has risen and Chinese wages have soared, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics in Washington. That decline in prices has kept the pressure on Western competitors — and kept Chinese exports buoyant.
生产率的提高和制造产能过剩的一个结果是：即便2013年人民币汇率上升，中国工资水平飙升，从美国劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)的数据看，美国从中国进口的产品平均价格实际上还下降了0.9%。这种价格的下降继续给西方竞争者带来压力，同时也保障了中国的出口畅旺。