Milk chocolate, dark chocolate — or not enough chocolate?
牛奶巧克力、黑巧克力——或者巧克力不够吃了？
You might still be gorging on Halloween Twix bars or Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups, but according to two of the world’s largest chocolate makers, Mars Inc. and the Switzerland-based Barry Callebaut, your candy bowl might be a lot more bare around 2020.
你可能还在贪吃万圣节的Twix巧克力或里斯花生酱杯(Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups)，但是世界上最大的两家巧克力制造商玛氏公司(Mars Inc.)和瑞士的百乐嘉利宝公司(Barry Callebaut)称，到2020年左右，你糖果碗里恐怕会没那么多可吃的。
“They cite a perfect storm of factors: Less cocoa is being produced as more and more people are devouring chocolate,” says Catherine Garcia at The Week.
“他们指出了导致这种可能性的很多因素：可可的产量在减少，爱吃巧克力的人却越来越多，”《周刊》(The Week)的凯瑟琳·加西亚(Catherine Garcia)说。
And you might already be paying more for your favorite chocolate bar, with Hershey’s the first maker to raise prices, according to Roberto A. Ferdman at The Washington Post.
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的罗伯托·A·费尔德曼(Roberto A. Ferdman)认为，随着好时公司(Hershey’s)第一个提价，你最喜欢的巧克力棒可能已经在涨价了。
“The predicted forecast of consumption from Asia, India, China, Nigeria, Vietnam South Africa — i.e., the hot growth spots — are rising at an alarming rate,” Angus Kennedy, the editor of Kennedy’s Confection magazine, a British authority on chocolate and the global confection industry, told Op-Talk. “Nigeria at 217 percent, for example.” 
“根据预计，亚洲、印度、中国、尼日利亚、越南和南非等主要增长地区的巧克力消费正在以惊人的速度增长，”英国巧克力和全球糖果业权威杂志《肯尼迪糖果》(Kennedy’s Confection)的编辑安格斯·肯尼迪(Angus Kennedy)对本报Op-Talk栏目说，“比如，尼日利亚的需求量增长了217%。”
Chocolate is also known for its healthful, in addition to its irresistible, qualities, such as aiding in memory, as Pam Belluck points out at The New York Times.
除了诱人的美味，巧克力也以对健康的益处闻名，比帕姆·贝拉克(Pam Belluck)在《纽约时报》上说，巧克力有助于提高记忆力。
But while they’re still scrumptious, Mr. Kennedy points out that some chocolate products are changing their shape and taste. Consumers are getting less chocolate for their dollar, he says: “I call for an industry standard 100 gram chocolate bar, like a liter of wine or pint of beer. We must have standards with minimum chocolate levels to protect the consumers around the globe.”
虽然巧克力依然十分美味，但是肯尼迪指出有些巧克力产品的形状和口味正在发生改变，消费者花同样的钱所获得的巧克力实际上减少了，“我呼吁建立每百克巧克力含量的行业标准，就像一升葡萄酒或一品脱啤酒的标准那样。我们应该建立最低巧克力含量标准，以保护全球消费者。”
He adds that we are buying “more packaging and less chocolate,” as well as nonchocolate ingredients in our chocolate such as nuts, almonds, raisins — not to mention lots of sugar. “My prediction is that they will develop more fake type chocolate products for the new markets.”
他补充说，我们所购买的“包装越来越大，巧克力越来越小”，以及更多非巧克力成分，比如坚果、杏仁和葡萄干——糖的含量很高就更不用说了，“我估计厂商将为新市场开发更多伪巧克力产品种类”。
Why is less cocoa being produced? Some observers suggest that climate change has something to do with it, especially in Africa, where the majority of cocoa is grown.
为什么可可的产量减少了？有些观察家说，气候改变与此有关，特别是可可的主产地非洲。
“Dry weather in West Africa (specifically in the Ivory Coast and Ghana, where more than 70 percent of the world’s cocoa is produced) has greatly decreased production in the region,” says Mr. Ferdman. “A nasty fungal disease known as frosty pod hasn’t helped either.”
“西非的干旱天气（特别是产量占全球70%以上的象牙海岸和加纳）导致那一地区的产量急剧减少，”费尔德曼说，“一种名为黑斑病(frosty pod)的可恶真菌病害也产生了不利影响。”
Dean Baker, at the Center for Economic and Policy Research blog, sees global warming as a probable culprit in reduced chocolate production. Perhaps, he says, rising prices are a “global warming tax on chocolate” and asks, “when we get people crying tears over the harm that will be done to people if carbon taxes or other restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions raise their energy prices, we have to ask where are their tears when people pay higher prices for chocolate or other foods due to the effects of global warming?”
博客——经济与政策研究中心(Center for Economic and Policy Research)的博主迪恩·贝克(Dean Baker)认为，全球变暖可能是巧克力产量减少的原因之一。他说，上涨的价格也许是“全球变暖对巧克力收的税”，他问道，“烟尘排放税或对温室气体排放的其他限制导致能源价格上涨，人们为此飙泪痛诉，那我们得问问，当人们为巧克力或其他受全球变暖影响的食品支付更高价格时，他们的眼泪在哪里？”
Others have mentioned Ebola as a possible culprit. But according to a statement from the International Cocoa Organization, Ebola has had no or little impact, pointing to the countries with the most severe outbreak: “It is noted that harvesting and shipping of cocoa in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone have been seriously curtailed. However, combined cocoa production in these three countries represents about 0.7 percent of global output and is likely to have a minor bearing on the global cocoa market.”
还有人说，埃博拉病毒可能也是一个原因。但是据国际可可组织的一项声明，埃博拉对可可产量几乎没有影响，它提到埃博拉病毒爆发最严重的几个国家，“我们发现，几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂的可可收割和运输受到严重影响。但是，这三个国家的可可总产量仅占全球产量的约0.7%，对全球可可市场的影响微乎其微”。
In the near-term, some observers are pointing out that reports of chocolate’s shortfall might be premature. According to the International Cocoa Organization, there is actually a surplus of 40,000 tons of cocoa in 2014.
有些观察家指出，从近期看，关于巧克力短缺的报道可能为时过早。国际可可组织称，2014年实际上还多出了四万吨可可豆。
So whether it’s today or 2020, when is a chocolate shortage a good thing? Symbolically, says Anne Steele at The Christian Science Monitor, the world’s insatiable appetite for chocolate “means more and more people can afford it. In a way, chocolate — as a luxury item — is an indicator of a growing world middle class.”
那么，不管是现在还是2020年，巧克力短缺在何时会是件好事？《基督教科学箴言报》(The Christian Science Monitor)的安妮·斯蒂尔(Anne Steele)说，世界各地对巧克力的贪婪需求“表明越来越多的人吃得起它了。从某种程度上讲，作为一种奢侈品，巧克力标志着世界各地的中产阶级在不断壮大”。
And much of that growth is in Asian countries, especially India and China. “The Chinese are buying more and more chocolate each year,” Mr. Ferdman writes at The Post. “Still, they only consume per capita about 5 percent of what the average Western European eats. There’s also the rising popularity of dark chocolate, which contains a good deal more cocoa by volume than traditional chocolate bars (the average chocolate bar contains about 10 percent, while dark chocolate often contains upward of 70 percent).”
巧克力消费的增长主要是来自亚洲国家，特别是印度和中国。“中国人的巧克力购买量逐年递增，”费尔德曼在《华盛顿邮报》上写道，“不过，中国的人均巧克力消费量只有西欧的约5%。黑巧克力越来越受欢迎，它的可可含量比传统巧克力棒高很多（普通巧克力棒的可可含量约为10%，而黑巧克力的可可含量通常可达70%）。”
Nevertheless, as Mr. Kennedy says, we are not going to run out of chocolate anytime soon: “The market will become more divided, more expensive chocolates will flourish as people believe it to be a bigger luxury and a splash out in cash.” 
不过，正如肯尼迪所说，我们不会很快没巧克力吃的，“市场将更加细分，将出现大量更昂贵的巧克力，因为人们把它看作奢侈品，认为买巧克力是一种挥霍。”