An iceberg ran aground over Easter weekend just off the small Newfoundland town of Ferryland, population 465, drawing knots of tourists eager to catch a glimpse.
在今年复活节的周末，一座冰山在只有465个居民的纽芬兰小镇费里兰附近搁浅，渴望一瞥它的风采的游客络绎不绝。
Some are locals or travelers who happened to be nearby, but many are a special Canadian breed, the iceberg chaser — people who flock to the coasts of Labrador and Newfoundland at this time of year hoping to see the huge frozen chunks of broken glacier that drift by on a stretch of sea known as Iceberg Alley.
有些是碰巧在附近的本地人或旅行者，但也有很多是加拿大的一个特殊群体：冰山追逐者。他们在每年的这个时候涌向拉布拉多和纽芬兰海岸，希望看到破裂冰川的巨大冰块漂过一段被称为冰山巷(Iceberg Alley)的狭窄海域。
The berg at Ferryland rises about 15 stories above the waterline — and that is only about 10 percent of its mass. Some of the submerged ice comes into view when the berg is seen from above.
费里兰的冰山水面以上的部分大概有15层楼高，那只是它的十分之一左右。从上方能看到部分被淹没的冰体。
“Most folks can’t wrap their heads around how big it is,” Barry Rogers, the owner of Iceberg Quest Ocean Tours, a Newfoundland tour operator, said in an interview on Thursday.
“大多数人无法想像它到底有多大，”纽芬兰旅行社Iceberg Quest Ocean Tours的所有者巴里·罗杰斯(Barry Rogers)周四在接受采访时表示。
Iceberg season starts in April, and there has been a bumper crop this year. More than 600 bergs have drifted into the North Atlantic shipping lanes so far, a count not usually reached until late May or early June, according to the International Ice Patrol of the United States Coast Guard in New London, Conn. The typical amount for April is closer to 80.
冰山季从每年的4月份开始，今年的冰山尤其多。据康涅狄格州新伦敦市的美国海岸警卫队(United States Coast Guard)国际冰情巡逻队(International Ice Patrol)称，到目前为止，已有600多个冰山漂入北大西洋航道，往年要到5月底或6月初才能累积这么多。4月份的总数通常是近80个。
Heavy winds have blown several icebergs close to shore — a boon for iceberg chasers, but a nuisance for the local fishing industry. The entrance to the harbor in St. John’s, the provincial capital, is “plugged solid,” Mr. Rogers said. “A lot of our fisher folks are just tied onto the wharf, waiting for the ice to move offshore.”
大风把几座冰山吹到了靠近海岸的地方，对冰山追逐者来说，这是福音，但给当地的渔业造成了困扰。罗杰斯称，省会圣约翰的海港入口“被堵死了”，“很多渔民只能困在码头，等待冰山漂离海岸”。
The stunning view that is causing traffic jams of onlookers on the coast road is actually a snapshot of the iceberg’s death throes, 15,000 years in the making. What began as snowflakes falling on Greenland during the last ice age has crept to the sea in a glacier and then broken off, probably sometime in the last three years, to float slowly out into Baffin Bay. Bumped and nudged by one another and by melting pack ice, the bergs eventually get caught up in the southbound Labrador Current and sail down Iceberg Alley.
壮观的景象导致岸边路上出现大量观众，引发交通堵塞，但这实际上是冰山死亡剧痛的缩影，属于一个持续了1.5万年的过程。上一个冰川期飘落在格陵兰岛上的雪花后来变成冰川，伸向大海，很可能在过去三年的某个时候，它分裂开，慢慢漂入巴芬湾。这些冰山和融化的浮冰相互碰撞推挤，最终被向南流的拉布拉多洋流捕获，沿着冰山巷航行。
Exposed to the warmer sun of spring and summer in lower latitudes, the bergs begin to shrink and to develop large crevices that channel floods of meltwater. If they come near shore, the bergs may bottom out on the ocean floor and come under immense pressure as the seawater stops supporting their weight. Falling tides are often the final straw, causing the grounded iceberg to break up suddenly into the waves.
这些冰山暴露在低纬度春季和夏季较为温暖的阳光下，开始缩小，出现巨大的裂缝，融化的雪水从裂缝中汹涌流出。如果靠近海岸，它们可能会落到海床上，承受巨大的压力，因为海水不再能支撑它们的重量。落潮通常是最后的一击，导致搁浅的冰山突然破裂，形成巨浪。
“They can tumble down in a New York second,” Mr. Rogers said. “Sometimes it’s as loud as a cannon shot.”
“它们可能在转瞬之间崩溃，”罗杰斯说，“有时像发射大炮一样轰然巨响。”