Sabine Lisicki, a 23-year-old German, got up from lying on the Centre Court grass and said, “I’m so happy.” Then she broke into tears.
23岁的德国选手萨比尼·利斯基(Sabine Lisicki)从中央球场的草地上爬起来说，“我太高兴了。”然后她流下了眼泪。
It might not have made much sense, but then again, hardly anything about the 2013 version of Wimbledon has. For a sport so dominated by a handful of players in recent years, it is as if everyone agreed it was time for others to take the spotlight.
本来这不算很合理，不过，2013年的温布尔登没什么是合理的。最近几年，网球运动被少数几名球员垄断，但现在，似乎每个人都认为，是时候让其他人站到聚光灯下了。
Rafael Nadal lost in the first round, Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova in the second, all to players ranked outside the top 100. On a single day last week, seven singles players retired or withdrew with injuries, three of them in the top 10. The beloved grass took a beating, attacked for being too slippery.
拉斐尔·纳达尔(Rafael Nadal)首轮出局，罗杰·费德勒(Roger Federer)和玛丽亚·莎拉波娃(Maria Sharapova)第二轮被淘汰，对手全是排名在100名开外的选手。上周的一天，有7名单打选手因伤退赛，其中3人是排名前10的选手。众人喜爱的草皮遭到了抨击，被指场地太滑。
Even Serena Williams was not safe. On Monday, it was Lisicki’s turn to make tennis fans say, “Who?” by eliminating Williams, who was fresh off dominating the French Open and had a 34-match winning streak.
就连塞雷娜·威廉姆斯(Serena Williams)也不安全。本周一，轮到利斯基让球迷们惊叹“这人是谁”了。她淘汰了威廉姆斯，后者刚刚赢得了法国网球公开赛(French Open)的桂冠，并在此前保有34场连胜纪录。
Nothing at this tournament, it seems, will unfold as expected. What’s next? Deep-fried Twinkies replacing strawberries and cream at the concession stands?
不过在本届赛事，似乎没什么是预料之中的。接下来是什么？小卖部里不卖奶油草莓（温网传统小食，将草莓蘸奶油食用——译注）了，换成油炸奶油夹心蛋糕？
“This is the most unusual major I’ve been a part of in the last 20 years,” said Mary Joe Fernandez, a television analyst and former American champion.
担任电视评论员的美国前冠军球员玛丽·乔·费尔南德斯(Mary Joe Fernandez)说，“这是过去20年里我经历过的最不寻常的主要赛事。”
She added: “It feels different this week for sure. Today on Manic Monday, with 16 men, 16 women going out there, not seeing a Sharapova or a Federer, it was strange. It was strange not to see them on the schedule. It was strange when you were watching the big courts, not to see them enter it.”
她还说，“本周肯定是感觉不同了。今天是‘超级星期一’(Manic Monday)，男女各有16名球员出赛，既没有莎拉波娃，也没有费德勒，挺奇怪的。看不到他们在赛程表上，奇怪。在大球场里看比赛，没见到他们入场，奇怪。”
Before the tournament began, Williams was an overwhelming favorite to win, and when No. 2 Victoria Azarenka and No. 3 Sharapova exited, Williams became even more heavily favored. But after she was beaten by the No. 23 seed Lisicki, 6-2, 1-6, 6-4, Williams said, “It’s not a shock.”
赛事开始之前，人们一边倒地看好威廉姆斯夺冠。2号种子维多利亚·阿扎伦卡(Victoria Azarenka)和3号种子莎拉波娃出局后，威廉姆斯更加被看好。但是，当23号种子选手利斯基以6-2、1-6和6-4击败她后，威廉姆斯说，“这不是冷门。”
She repeated, “She’s a great player,” over and over to reporters to convince them that her loss was, in fact, not shocking.
她反复向记者强调，“她是个很棒的球员”，为的是说服他们，自己的失利实际上不足为奇。
Maybe we should not be shocked any more by what is happening at Wimbledon. During its first week, the tournament had achieved some unusual milestones: fewest top-10 men and women in the third round (10); most retirements and withdrawals (13); most players over 30 in the fourth round (9); no American men in the third round for the first time since 1912.
也许，我们确实不应再为温网发生的事情感到震惊。赛事第一周就出现了一些不同寻常的里程碑：晋级第三轮的排名前10的男女选手加起来的人数最少（10人）、退赛的人数最多（13人）、晋级第四轮的30岁以上的选手人数最多（9人），以及自1912年以来首次没有美国男选手晋级第三轮。
More surprising than the numbers were the images. On media day, normally an uneventful cliché-fest, Sharapova aired out personal grievances with Williams. On the first match on the first day on Court No. 1, Azarenka’s left leg slid sideways, twisting her knee. She won that match, but she could not play her next. On Saturday, No. 8 Juan Martin del Potro’s left knee made a similarly ghastly bend. He won that match and advanced to the quarterfinals Monday, saying he was still not 100 percent.
比数字更令人惊讶的是画面。媒体日通常没什么事情发生，一切按部就班，但莎拉波娃因私人恩怨对威廉姆斯展开了炮轰。在一号球场的首个比赛日的首场比赛，阿扎伦卡左腿侧滑扭伤膝盖。她赢下了比赛，但不能继续进行下一轮比赛。上周六，8号种子胡安·马丁·德尔波特罗(Juan Martin del Potro)的左膝也有一次类似的糟糕扭曲。他赢下比赛并于本周一又晋级四分之一决赛，不过他表示，自己仍未100%康复。
Williams, a five-time champion here, was also made to look awkward and uncomfortable on grass by Lisicki’s go-for-broke shotmaking. On one break point for Lisicki in the pivotal third set, Williams even missed an overhead.
在利斯基孤注一掷的击球方式面前，五届温网冠军威廉姆斯在草场上显得笨拙而难受。在关键的第三盘，利斯基的一个破发点上，威廉姆斯竟然打丢了一个过顶球。
It was Lisicki who ended up lying on the grass in celebration after hitting a forehand winner on match point.
最后是利斯基躺在了草坪上庆祝。她用正手击出致胜球拿下赛点。
As an example of how quickly fortunes can change here, Lisicki is now the favorite to win, with 3-to-1 odds. Her odds were 150 to 1 before the tournament began.
利斯基现在是夺冠大热门，赔率为3赔1，赛事开始前的赔率则是150赔1，这证明了运势转换之快。
But at this tournament, being the favorite is probably the last thing a player wants.
不过在本届温网，成为大热门很可能是球员最不希望的事情。
“It doesn’t mean anything, especially here,” said Agnieszka Radwanska, now the highest-seeded woman remaining, at No. 4. “So many weird scores.”
目前还剩下的最高排位女球员是4号种子阿格尼西卡·拉德万斯卡(Agnieszka Radwanska)，她说，“这什么也不能代表，尤其是在这里。好多奇怪的比分。”
“What it does show is the depth in both men’s and women’s tennis,” said Tracy Austin, a former No. 1 player. “And what it does show is, ‘Wow, O.K., they are beatable, so maybe I can do it, as well.’ ”
前世界头号选手特莱西·奥斯丁(Tracy Austin)说，“这充分展示出男女网坛当下人才济济。而且这还展示出，‘哇，好吧，他们可以被击败，所以我也有可能做到这一点。’”
The British fans could not help being nervous when Andy Murray stepped on Centre Court right after Williams’s shocking loss. This Wimbledon’s aura seemed to be at work when Murray started grabbing his back in pain and Mikhail Youzhny was serving for the second set at 5-3.
威廉姆斯爆冷出局后，安迪·穆雷(Andy Murray)踏上中央球场的草地时，英国球迷不禁紧张万分。米哈伊尔·尤兹尼(Mikhail Youzhny)在第二盘5比3领先进入发球胜盘局，穆雷痛苦地抚摸背部，本届温布尔登的气场似乎又发挥作用了。
But Murray rallied in the set and won the match, 6-4, 7-6 (5), 6-1. After seeing what happened to Williams and many of his rivals, the second-seeded Murray is not taking anything for granted.
不过，穆雷在那一盘奋起直追，最终以6-4、7-6(5)和6-1赢下了比赛。目睹威廉姆斯和众多男选手的出局，2号种子穆雷丝毫不敢掉以轻心。
“When those sort of results can happen to a player as good as her, there’s absolutely no reason why it can’t happen to me,” he said. “That’s why I’m not getting ahead of myself, and no one else should.”
“如果像她这样出色的球员也可能有此结果，那就绝对没理由不可能发生在我的身上，”他说，“所以我没有操之过急，其他人也不应该着急。”
The gambling Web site Paddy Power listed the odds of Murray crying on court at some point in the tournament as 3 to 1. Whether they would be happy or sad tears was not specified.
赌博网站Paddy Power将穆雷在本届温网赛场上飙泪的赔率定为3赔1，不管是高兴的还是伤心的泪水。
There were plenty of happy tears Monday. With four rounds complete, many of the surviving players have achieved career bests. Six of 16 players remaining are in the Wimbledon quarterfinals for the first time.
周一的赛场上洒下了许多高兴的泪水。四轮过后，许多晋级选手都取得了职业生涯中的最好成绩。在剩下的16名男女选手中，有6人是首次跻身温网四分之一决赛。
Kirsten Flipkens, the 20th seed from Belgium, kissed the grass on Court 18 then sat in her chair shaking her head in disbelief and wiping away tears after reaching her first Grand Slam quarterfinal at 27.
来自比利时的20号种子克斯顿·菲利普肯斯(Kirsten Flipkens)亲吻了18号球场的草，随后坐在她的椅子上难以置信地摇着头并擦去眼泪，27岁的她是第一次跻身大满贯赛事八强。
Fernando Verdasco, a 29-year-old former top-10 player, celebrated his first Wimbledon quarterfinal in 11 chances by doing a dance inspired by the Spanish singer El Fary.
29岁的费尔南多·沃达斯科(Fernando Verdasco)曾是世界前10的选手，为了庆祝自己在11次尝试后首次打入温网四分之一决赛，他跳了一段受西班牙歌手埃尔·法里(El Fary)启发的舞蹈。
Lukasz Kubot, the 130th-ranked player from Poland, did a high-stepping dance on Court 14 after advancing to his first Grand Slam quarterfinal in the strangest fourth-round matchup of all, beating 111th-ranked Adrian Mannarino in five sets.
来自波兰的选手卢卡斯·库波特(Lukasz Kubot)在14号球场跳了一段康康舞，因为他首次打入了大满贯赛事的四分之一决赛。这是场最为奇怪的大满贯第四轮比赛，排名第130位的库波特在五盘大战中击败了排名第111位的艾德里安·马纳里诺(Adrian Mannarino)。
Because this is wacky Wimbledon, Kubot, 31, will face his countryman Jerzy Janowicz, 22, in the quarterfinals. Since 1939, only two Polish men had reached the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam event. Now a Polish man is guaranteed to be in a Grand Slam semifinal for the first time.
由于这是一届怪异的温布尔登，31岁的库波特将在四分之一决赛中面对他的同胞，22岁的耶兹·扬诺维茨(Jerzy Janowicz)。1939年以来，只有两名波兰男子球员曾在大满贯赛事中打入四分之一决赛。现在则一定会有一名波兰男子球员首次跻身大满贯赛事的半决赛。
“We are happy because what is going on right now,” Janowicz said. “I mean, it’s magical.”
“我们为现在发生的事情感到高兴，”扬诺维茨说，“我想说，这真神奇。”
That is one word for this Wimbledon.
本届温网，用一个词来形容，就是“神奇”。