In recent days, the search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jetliner has focused on blurry satellite images and other sightings of objects floating in the desolate reaches of the southern Indian Ocean.
近日，针对失踪马来西亚班机的搜寻工作一直以关于南印度洋偏远海域漂浮物的模糊卫星图像和其他观测发现为重心。
So far, none of the objects have been retrieved or identified. They could be aircraft wreckage, but even the officials leading the search for Flight 370 acknowledge that the objects could be something else. And that something else, people who study marine debris say, could be just about anything.
截至目前，人们尚未找到或识别出其中的任何物体。这些东西可能是飞机残骸，然而，就连领导370航班搜寻工作的官员也承认，它们可能是与飞机无关的其他东西。研究海洋垃圾的人说，所谓的“其他东西”可能是任何东西。
“Any search and rescue attempt will be hampered by untold quantities of debris,” said Charles Moore, a sailor who studies marine debris at the Algalita Marine Research Institute in Long Beach, Calif. Even with relatively high-resolution satellite imaging, he said, “you are going to be confounded by the detritus of civilization.”
“数量巨大的垃圾会对任何搜索和救援工作造成阻碍，”在加州长滩阿加利特海洋研究所(Algalita Marine Research Institute)研究海洋垃圾的海员查尔斯·穆尔(Charles Moore)说。他说，即使卫星图像拥有相对高的分辨率，“人造物体的碎片也会让你困惑。”
Nicholas Mallos, a marine debris specialist with the Ocean Conservancy, an advocacy group in Washington, said that among the larger items found in the world’s oceans are mattresses, docks, crates, containers and tangled masses of abandoned fishing nets, buoys and other gear. Even “ghost” fishing ships, 30 to 50 feet long, have washed up on coasts, he said.
华盛顿倡导组织海洋保护协会(Ocean Conservancy)研究海洋垃圾的专家尼古拉斯·马洛斯(Nicholas Mallos)说，世界各地海洋里发现的大体积垃圾包括床垫、船坞、板条箱、集装箱和纠缠在一起的废弃渔网、浮标及其他设备。他说，甚至连30到50英尺（约合9米到15米）长的“幽灵”渔船都会被冲上海岸。
“Truly anything you can think of has likely been found,” Mr. Mallos added.
马洛斯还说，“说实话，几乎能找到你所能想到的任何东西。”
While there are no firm data about marine debris, studies of shoreline cleanup projects and other activities suggest that four-fifths of what is floating in the ocean originates from land sources: litter and waste that is left on beaches or travels down rivers or through storm drains to the sea.
虽然没有关于海洋垃圾的确凿数据，对海岸清理工作和其他活动的研究却表明，漂浮在海面的东西有五分之四都来自陆地：遗弃在海滩上或者经由河流或雨水沟流入海里的垃圾和废弃物。
Experts agree that most debris is small and plastic — often bottles, bags and other common household or commercial items. Also floating around are “nurdles,” the tiny plastic pellets that are shipped, by the tens of millions of tons, to factories that make plastic goods. Over time, most small plastic objects break down into even smaller particles because of the effects of waves and sunlight.
专家们一致认为，大多数垃圾都是小件的塑料物品——通常是瓶子、袋子和其他的常见家庭用品或商用物品。海面上还漂浮着一种叫做“小球”(nurdles)的东西，也就是一种塑料小球，这种东西经常会被运往生产塑料制品的工厂，数量以千万吨计。随着时间流逝，在海浪和阳光的作用下，大多数的小件塑料制品都会分解成体积更小的微粒。
There is plenty of larger debris, too. Aside from commercial fishing operations, where lost gear is commonplace, cargo containers account for some of it. But estimates of the number of containers that are torn from their lashings in heavy seas vary widely. Some advocacy groups claim that 10,000 or more are lost overboard each year, but the World Shipping Council, after surveying its members, estimated that 700 was more accurate.
海上还有大量体积较大的垃圾。商务打捞作业中经常发生设备落水的情况，除此以外，货运集装箱也是这种垃圾的一个来源。但是，对于在波涛汹涌的海面上从船上掉下来的集装箱的数量，人们的估计存在很大差异。一些倡导组织称，每年有1万个以上的集装箱掉下船，不过，世界船运委员会(World Shipping Council)在对组织成员进行调查后估计，700是个更准确的数字。
Natural disasters that damage structures on land, including hurricanes, typhoons and tsunamis, also contribute large amounts of debris. The tsunami that hit northern Japan in 2011, for example, washed about five million tons of material into the ocean, according to estimates by the Japanese government.
飓风、台风和海啸等自然灾害会摧毁陆地上的建筑，由此制造大量垃圾。比如，据日本政府估计，2011年重创日本北部的那场海啸将大约500万吨东西冲到了海里。
Although about 70 percent of it is thought to have sunk immediately, much of the rest dispersed across the northern Pacific, according to the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, which has a program devoted to studying marine debris. Some large objects — boats, a trailer with a motorcycle inside, and several floating docks, including one that was 70 feet long — have reached the west coast of North America.
国家海洋和大气管理局(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)表示，大约70%的海啸垃圾据信即刻沉到了海底，剩余的许多东西却扩散到了整个北太平洋。一些大物件还抵达了北美的西海岸，其中包括一些船只、一座里面有一部摩托车的活动房屋，还有几个浮动船坞，其中一个长达70英尺。该管理局有一个专门研究海洋垃圾的项目。
Even debris from the 2004 tsunami that struck Indonesia, Sri Lanka and other Indian Ocean countries is still floating around, according to Mr. Moore. “A decade is nothing,” he said.
穆尔称，就连2004年袭击印尼、斯里兰卡等印度洋国家的那场海啸造成的垃圾也依然在到处漂浮。“十年了，一点变化都没有，”他说。
It is unclear, however, how much debris from either tsunami would have traveled from the Northern Hemisphere to the Southern.
然而，尚不清楚这两次海啸造成的垃圾中有多少从北半球漂到了南半球。
Nikolai Maximenko, a researcher at the University of Hawaii, said that the Equator generally acted as a wall. “What floats in the North Pacific stays in the North Pacific,” he said. “But there are some exceptions.”
夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)的研究人员尼古拉·马克斯门科(Nikolai Maximenko)称，赤道通常会发挥墙的作用。“北太平洋的漂浮物会一直停留在北太平洋，”他说，“但也有一些例外。”
Much of the marine debris, large and small, is concentrated in gyres, large oceanic regions with circulating currents. It was Mr. Moore’s encounter with one of these areas — now known informally as the Great Pacific Garbage Patch — while sailing from Hawaii to California in the 1990s that inspired him to start the Algalita institute.
不管是大是小，许多海洋垃圾都集中在环流区，环流区指的是有循环洋流的一些广阔海域。上世纪90年代，穆尔驾船从夏威夷前往加州，途中遇到了其中的一片海域，该海域现在有一个非正式的名称，太平洋大垃圾区(Great Pacific Garbage Patch)。正是这次遭遇促使穆尔成立了阿加利特研究所。
Gyres exist in all of the major oceans. Mr. Moore said that the part of the southern Indian Ocean where the search for the Malaysian airliner is taking place was on the eastern edge of that ocean’s debris-concentrating gyre.
所有大洋中都有环流区。穆尔表示，马航飞机搜寻工作所涉及的南印度洋海域位于南印度洋垃圾集中的环流区的东部边缘。
He said that the storm system that halted search operations on Tuesday could carry debris into, or out of, the gyre. “It could act as a highway, pushing the stuff in or out,” he said.
他说，周二导致搜寻工作暂停的风暴系统可能会将残骸送入或带离那个环流区。“风暴系统可以起到公路的作用，把那些东西推进去或推出来，”他说。