SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s state media on Thursday confirmed the removal of a hard-line general as its military chief, the latest sign of a military overhaul in which the country’s supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, has replaced nearly half of his country’s top officials in the past two years, according to South Korean officials.
韩国首尔——周四，朝鲜官方媒体确认一名强硬派将领已被撤除军队参谋长的职位，这是朝鲜全面整肃军方的最新迹象。据韩国官员透露，过去两年里，该国最高领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)已经撤换了几乎一半的高级官员。
The firing of Gen. Kim Kyok-sik and the rise of Gen. Ri Yong-gil to replace him as head of the general staff of the North’s Korean People’s Army was the latest in a series of high-profile reshuffles that Kim Jong-un has engineered to consolidate his grip on the North’s top elites.
金格植将军(Kim Kyok-sik)被撤职，李永吉将军(Ri Yong-gil)替代他担任朝鲜人民军(North Korean People's Army)总参谋长一职，这是金正恩高调推行的一系列改组的最新举措。金正恩进行改组的目的是巩固他对朝鲜高层精英的控制。
Since taking power upon the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011, Kim Jong-un has replaced 44 percent of North Korea’s 218 top military, party and government officials, the South’s Ministry of Unification said in a report. He engineered this and other reshuffles to retire or sideline the old generals from his father’s days and promote a new set of aides who will owe their loyalty directly to him. The reordering of top jobs has accelerated since July last year, when Vice Marshal Ri Yong-ho, one of the most powerful men under Mr. Kim’s father, was suddenly fired as chief of the general staff of the North Korean military. He was replaced by Vice Marshal Hyon Yong-chol. Mr. Hyon didn’t last long either as he was soon demoted and replaced by Gen. Kim Kyok-sik in May.
金正恩在父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)于2011年底去世后开始执政。韩国统一部(Unification Ministry)在一份报告中称，上台以来，金正恩已经将朝鲜的218名高层军队、党内及政府官员换掉了44%。 金正恩之所以采取此次及其他改组举措，目的是迫使其父亲时代的老将领退休或不再参与相关事务，提拔一些效忠于他的新助手。金正恩的高层洗牌从去年7月开始加速，当时，次帅李英浩(Ri Yong-ho)突然被解除朝鲜军队总参谋长的职务，在金正日统治时期，李英浩是最有权力的人之一。取代他的是次帅玄永哲(Hyon Yong-chol)。玄永哲任职时间也不长，很快就被降职，并在今年5月被金格植将军替代。
Gen. Kim, 74, had been one of the oldest aides of Kim Jong-il still holding a top job even after Kim Jong-un promoted younger generals. South Korean officials believed that General Kim commanded units responsible for sinking one of South Korea’s warships and shelling a South Korean border island in 2010, attacks that killed 50 South Koreans.
金正恩任用年轻将领之后，74岁的金格植成为了仍然保留高层职位的年纪最大的原金正日助手之一。韩国官员认为，金格植曾指挥部队击沉韩国的一艘战舰，并在2010年轰击了韩国的一个边境岛屿，这些袭击共导致50名韩国人死亡。
But his name disappeared from the North’s state media after the Central Military Commission of the ruling Workers’ Party met in August to discuss personnel matters.
然而，在执政党劳动党(Workers' Party)中央军事委员会(Central Military Commission)于今年8月会商人事问题之后，金格植的名字再也不曾出现在朝鲜官方媒体的报道之中。
Little is known about Ri Yong-gil, who is in charge of the field operations of the North Korean military as chief of its general staff. He gained the attention of outside analysts when North Korean media reported that he was one of the generals who advised Mr. Kim this spring when North Korea threatened the United States and South Korea with nuclear strikes.
外界对李永吉知之甚少，他以总参谋长的身份负责朝鲜军队的作战事务。朝鲜媒体曾报道称，今年春天朝鲜威胁对美国及韩国进行核打击时，李永吉是金正恩的顾问将领之一。因为这一报道，李永吉受到了外界分析人士的关注。
South Korean officials believed that General Ri was appointed military chief during the August meeting of the Central Military Commission.
韩国官员认为，李永吉是在朝鲜劳动党中央军事委员会8月会议期间被任命为朝鲜人民军总参谋长的。
But North Korean media mentioned his new title for the first time on Thursday in dispatches listing those who accompanied Mr. Kim while visiting a Pyongyang mausoleum where his father and his grandfather, the founding President Kim Il-sung, lie in state. Thursday was the 68th anniversary of the Workers’ Party.
但是，朝鲜媒体周四才首次提及他的新头衔。报道金正恩在平壤参拜其父金日成及其祖父、朝鲜开国领袖金正日遗体所在陵墓的时候，媒体列出了金正恩的随行人员，其中就包括李永吉。周四是劳动党建党68周年纪念日。
General Ri joins Gen. Jang Jong-nam, who became minister of the armed forces in May, and Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, the military’s top political officer, as Kim Jong-un’s top three military aides.
这样，李永吉就和5月就任朝鲜人民武装力量部部长的张正男(Jang Jong-nam)以及朝鲜人民军最高政治领袖崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)次帅一起，成为了金正恩的三大军方助手。
Among the three, Vice Marshal Choe, director of the General Political Department of the North Korean People’s Army, was considered the most powerful. He appeared with Mr. Kim in North Korean media more often than any other member of the North Korean elite. Mr. Choe, a former party secretary, had never served in the army and South Korean analysts see his sudden rise in the military ranks under Mr. Kim as a sign that Mr. Kim was letting the party reassert its influence over the military as he vowed to channel more national resources into the rebuilding of the economy.
这三个人当中，朝鲜人民军总政治局局长崔龙海被视为权力最大的一个。在朝鲜的精英领导层中，他随同金正恩在朝鲜媒体中露面的频率最高。曾任党委书记的崔龙海从未在军队服役，韩国分析人士认为，他在军界的突然崛起表明，金正恩一方面承诺将投入更多国家资源来重振经济，一方面也在巩固其政党对军队的影响力。
Meanwhile, North Korean media late Wednesday showed Mr. Kim inspecting a housing project together with his wife, Ri Sol-ju, who has been a focus of lurid gossip in the region in recent weeks.
与此同时，周三晚间，朝鲜媒体播放了金正恩和妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)一起视察一处住房工程的画面。最近几个星期，李雪主一直是该地区一些耸人听闻八卦的主角。
In August, the conservative daily Chosun Ilbo in South Korea reported that Mr. Kim ordered the executions of a dozen North Korean performers, including the singer Hyon Song-wol, who the paper said was Mr. Kim’s former girlfriend, for making videos of themselves performing sex acts and then selling the recordings.
8月，韩国保守派报纸《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)报道称，金正恩下令处决十几名朝鲜演员，原因是他们自拍性行为视频用于销售。这些演员当中包括据该报称是金正恩前女友的歌手玄松月(Hyon Song-wol)。
Then, last month, Japan’s daily Asahi Shimbun reported that Mr. Kim ordered the executions to prevent the spreading of rumors that his wife was also engaged in similar acts when she was a singer.
上个月，日本日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)报道称，金正恩之所以做出上述决定，为的是阻止相关传言，传言说他妻子当歌手时也参与过类似活动。
North Korea called the reports “an unpardonable hideous provocation hurting the dignity of the supreme leadership” and promised a “stern punishment.”
朝鲜称这些报道是“不可原谅的恶劣挑衅行为，损害了最高领导人的尊严”，并誓言要对其进行“严厉惩罚”。
Nam Jae-joon, director of South Korea’s National Intelligence Service, told lawmakers in Seoul that his agency was aware of the executions but had no information on Ms. Ri’s reported involvement.
韩国国家情报院院长南在俊(Nam Jae-joon)在首尔对国会议员表示，情报院知晓处决一事，但未掌握有关李雪主也参与过相关活动的情报。