JERUSALEM — Israelis and Palestinians are imprisoned in what seems increasingly like a hermetically sealed bubble. Over the years, inside this bubble, each side has evolved sophisticated justifications for every act it commits.
耶路撒冷——以色列人和巴勒斯坦人越来越像是被困在了一个与世隔绝的鱼缸里。这些年来，双方都在这个鱼缸里为自己的每个行为找到了不错的理由。
Israel can rightly claim that no country in the world would abstain from responding to incessant attacks like those of Hamas, or to the threat posed by the tunnels dug from the Gaza Strip into Israel. Hamas, conversely, justifies its attacks on Israel by arguing that the Palestinians are still under occupation and that residents of Gaza are withering away under the blockade enforced by Israel.
以色列大可以说，面对哈马斯(Hamas)那种不间断的袭击或从加沙地带(Gaza Strip)通往以色列的隧道所带来的威胁，世界上没有哪个国家会无动于衷。在另一边，哈马斯认为自己对以色列的袭击是正当的，因为巴勒斯坦仍被占领，而且因为以色列的封锁，加沙居民的生活变得越来越困苦。
Inside the bubble, who can fault Israelis for expecting their government to do everything it can to save children on the Nahal Oz kibbutz, or any of the other communities adjacent to the Gaza Strip, from a Hamas unit that might emerge from a hole in the ground? And what is the response to Gazans who say that the tunnels and rockets are their only remaining weapons against a powerful Israel? In this cruel and desperate bubble, both sides are right. They both obey the law of the bubble — the law of violence and war, revenge and hatred.
在这个鱼缸里，谁又能指责以色列人呢？他们只是希望政府竭尽所能，保护纳哈勒-奥兹基布兹或加沙地带附近其他社区的儿童，不受那些或许将从地洞中冒出来的哈马斯武装分子的威胁。而加沙人表示，隧道和火箭弹是他们用来对抗强大的以色列的仅有武器。我们又该如何回应他们？在这个残酷而令人绝望的鱼缸中，双方都是对的。他们都遵循了这个鱼缸的法则——暴力与战争、复仇与仇恨。
But the big question, as war rages on, is not about the horrors occurring every day inside the bubble, but rather it is this: How on earth can it be that we have been suffocating together inside this bubble for over a century? This question, for me, is the crux of the latest bloody cycle.
但是，目前战争愈演愈烈，一个更大的问题不是鱼缸内每天发生的恐怖事件，而是它：我们怎么能一起在这个鱼缸内困了一个多世纪？于我而言，这个问题才是最近一轮的流血冲突的关键所在。
Since I cannot ask Hamas, nor do I purport to understand its way of thinking, I ask the leaders of my own country, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his predecessors: How could you have wasted the years since the last conflict without initiating dialogue, without even making the slightest gesture toward dialogue with Hamas, without attempting to change our explosive reality? Why, for these past few years, has Israel avoided judicious negotiations with the moderate and more conversable sectors of the Palestinian people — an act that could also have served to pressure Hamas? Why have you ignored, for 12 years, the Arab League initiative that could have enlisted moderate Arab states with the power to impose, perhaps, a compromise on Hamas? In other words: Why is it that Israeli governments have been incapable, for decades, of thinking outside the bubble?
既然我无法询问哈马斯，也不能声称自己了解它的思维方式，那我就问一下自己国家的领导人总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)和他的前任：自从上次冲突结束后，你们怎么就没有开展对话，甚至没有做出最含蓄的要与哈马斯对话的表示，没有试图去改变我们充斥着火药味的现状？为什么过去几年，以色列一直不与比较温和且乐于沟通的巴勒斯坦人进行正式谈判？这样做其实是能对哈马斯形成压力的。为什么12年来，你们一直忽视阿拉伯联盟(Arab League)的提议？这项提议原本可以拉拢温和的阿拉伯国家，而它们又有能力迫使哈马斯做出让步。换而言之：为何数十年来，以色列政府都不能在鱼缸之外思考问题？
And yet the current round between Israel and Gaza is somehow different. Beyond the pugnacity of a few politicians fanning the flames of war, behind the great show of “unity” — in part authentic, mostly manipulative — something about this war is managing, I think, to direct many Israelis’ attention toward the mechanism that lies at the foundation of the vain and deadly repetitive “situation.” Many Israelis who have refused to acknowledge the state of affairs are now looking into the futile cycle of violence, revenge and counter-revenge, and they are seeing our reflection: a clear, unadorned image of Israel as a brilliantly creative, inventive, audacious state that for over a century has been circling the grindstone of a conflict that could have been resolved years ago.
然而，以色列与加沙目前的这轮冲突有些不同之处。越过几位为战火添薪加柴的政治人物好战的性格，在“团结一致”的大规模作秀背后——部分真实可信，大部分经过操纵——我认为，这场战争的某些特质成功地把许多以色列人的注意力转向了这种毫无意义且不断重复的“情况”的基础机制之上。许多曾拒绝承认现实的以色列人目前纷纷开始审视暴力、复仇与反复仇的无谓循环，而且他们也开始看到镜中的自己：一个清晰且未经修饰的以色列，这个极具创造力、发明力和无惧无畏的国家一个多世纪以来，一直在围绕冲突的磨石转圈，而这场冲突原本可以在多年前得到解决。
If we put aside for a moment the rationales we use to buttress ourselves against simple human compassion toward the multitude of Palestinians whose lives have been shattered in this war, perhaps we will be able to see them, too, as they trudge around the grindstone right beside us, in tandem, in endless blind circles, in numbing despair.
这场战争夺走了许许多多巴勒斯坦人的生命，如果我们能暂时把那些支持自己、反对简单地展示人类同情心的论点放到一边，或许我们就能看到，在我们身旁，拖着沉重步伐绕着磨石行走的他们也前赴后继，在永无止境的盲目绕圈，并且带着一种麻木的绝望之情。
I do not know what the Palestinians, including Gazans, really think at this moment. But I do have a sense that Israel is growing up. Sadly, painfully, gnashing its teeth, but nonetheless maturing — or, rather, being forced to. Despite the belligerent declarations of hotheaded politicians and pundits, beyond the violent onslaught of right-wing thugs against anyone whose opinion differs from theirs, the main artery of the Israeli public is gaining sobriety.
我不知道包括加沙人在内的巴勒斯坦人此刻的真正想法。但是我的确感觉到，以色列正在成长。它悲伤、痛苦，咬紧牙关，不过它也正在成熟起来，或者说是在被迫变成熟。虽然头脑发热的政客和评论人士发表了一些好战言论，而且右翼暴徒会去攻击所有持不同观点的人，但大部分以色列公众正在清醒起来。
The left is increasingly aware of the potent hatred against Israel — a hatred that arises not just from the occupation — and of the Islamic fundamentalist volcano that threatens the country. It also recognizes the fragility of any agreement that might be reached here. More people on the left understand now that the right wing’s fears are not mere paranoia, that they address a real and crucial threat.
左翼人士日益意识到人们对以色列的强烈敌意（它不仅源自占领行为），以及对以色列构成威胁的伊斯兰原教旨主义者的满腔怒火。他们还认识到了任何可能达成的协议的脆弱性。如今，越来越多的左翼人士意识到，右翼人士的恐惧并不虚妄，他们在应对一个真正的重大威胁。
I would hope that on the right, too, there is now greater recognition — even if it is accompanied by anger and frustration — of the limits of force; of the fact that even a powerful country like ours cannot simply act as it wishes; and that in the age we live in there are no unequivocal victories, only an illusory “image of victory” through which we can easily see the truth: that in war there are only losers. There is no military solution to the real anguish of the Palestinian people, and as long as the suffocation felt in Gaza is not alleviated, we in Israel will not be able to breathe freely either.
我希望，右翼也能更清晰地认识到——尽管这会伴随着愤怒与不安，军事力量的影响是有限的；即便像我们这样强大的国家也不能随心所欲；在我们生活的时代，没有绝对的胜利，只有一种虚幻的“胜利景象”，透过它，我们可以很容易地看到真相：在战争中，只有失败者。没有什么军事方案可以解决巴勒斯坦人民的真切苦痛，只要加沙地带人民的窒息感没有减缓，我们以色列人也无法自由呼吸。
Israelis have known this for decades, and for decades we have refused to truly comprehend it. But perhaps this time we understand a little better; perhaps we have caught a glimpse of the reality of our lives from a slightly different angle. It is a painful understanding, and a threatening one, certainly, but it is an understanding that could be the start of a shift. It might bring home for Israelis how critical and urgent peace with the Palestinians is, and how it can also be a basis for peace with the other Arab states. It may portray peace — such a disparaged concept here these days — as the best option, and the most secure one, available to Israel.
在过去数十年中，以色列人已经看到了这一点，而我们一直拒绝真正去理解它。但我们这次或许多理解了一些：或许我们从略微不同的角度瞥见我们的生活现实。这种理解令人痛苦，当然也具有威胁，但这可能会是转变的开始。它可能会让以色列人彻底明白，巴以和平进程的关键性和紧迫性，这种理解也可以成为以色列与其他阿拉伯国家保持和平关系的基础。根据这种理解，和平可能是以色列的最佳选择，以及最安全的选择，尽管如今在以色列，和平理念大遭贬低。
Will a similar comprehension emerge on the other side, in Hamas? I have no way of knowing. But the Palestinian majority, represented by Mahmoud Abbas, has already decided in favor of negotiation and against terrorism. Will the government of Israel, after this bloody war, after losing so many young and beloved people, continue to avoid at least trying this option? Will it continue to ignore Mr. Abbas as an essential component to any resolution? Will it keep dismissing the possibility that an agreement with West Bank Palestinians might gradually lead to an improved relationship with the 1.8 million residents of Gaza?
在另一边，哈马斯会有类似的领悟吗？我没法了解。但以马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)为代表的多数人已经决定支持谈判，反对恐怖主义。这场血腥战争致使那么多年轻人及心爱之人丧命，以色列政府会继续避免尝试这个选择吗？仍不把阿巴斯当做解决问题的关键人物吗？仍旧排除与以下可能性吗？——与西岸的巴勒斯坦人签订协议，这可能会使以色列逐步改善与加沙地带180万居民的关系。
Here in Israel, as soon as the war is over, we must begin the process of creating a new partnership, an internal alliance that will alter the array of narrow interest groups that controls us. An alliance of those who comprehend the fatal risk of continuing to circle the grindstone; those who understand that our borderlines no longer separate Jews from Arabs, but people who long to live in peace from those who feed, ideologically and emotionally, on continued violence.
在以色列，战争一结束，我们就必须开启建立新伙伴关系的进程，这种内部联盟将改变那些控制我们的狭隘的利益集团的组合。这个联盟的成员都明白，继续争斗的循环将带来致命危险，知道我们的边界线隔开的不再是犹太人与阿拉伯人，而是那些渴望和平相处的人，与那些在思想上与感情上都继续推动暴力的人。