The Israeli — Palestinian conflict has become a ritualistic obscenity. It offends the conscience of humankind. The Oslo accords are dead. The “peace process” initiated through them is a farce. It is time to rethink everything.
以色列——巴勒斯坦冲突已经成为一种老套的下流勾当。它冒犯人类的良知。奥斯陆协议已名存实亡。协议开启的“和平进程”已成为一场闹剧。是重新思考一切的时候了。
In Gaza, an open-air prison for 1.8 million people, more than 300 children are dead, killed in the almost month-long Israeli bombardment. Each of those children has a name, a family. Several were killed in the recent shelling of a United Nations school, an act that the United States called “disgraceful.” The many civilian casualties in Gaza cannot be waved away as the “human shields” of Hamas. They were not human shields; they were human beings. When the guns die down, Israel will begin a difficult accounting.
在加沙这个对180万人口来说是露天监狱的地方，300多个孩子已经死亡，死于近一个月之久的以色列轰炸。每个孩子都有自己的名字和家庭。有几个在最近一次炮击联合国学校时被炸死，美国称这次炮击为“可耻的”行径。加沙众多的平民伤亡不能简单解释为哈马斯的“人体盾牌”。他们不是人体盾牌；他们是人类的成员。当炮声停息后，以色列将开始一个艰难的计算。
But, yes, Hamas used these human beings, used them in the sense that the organization has no objective in the real world. Israel, which it says it is bent on annihilating, is not going away. Hamas manipulates and subjugates the Palestinians it governs in the name of a lost cause. To send rockets into Israel is to invite a certain response whose result, over time, is to reinforce a culture of paralyzing Palestinian victimhood. Hamas is criminal. It is criminal in its sacrifice of the Palestinian national cause to a fantasy, in its refusal to accept the Palestine Liberation Organization’s recognition of Israel’s right “to exist in peace and security,” in its determination to kill Jews, and in its willingness to see the blood of its people shed for nothing.
是的，哈马斯利用了这些人，这是从该组织在这个世界上没有任何真正目标的意义上来说。哈马斯称其目标是消灭以色列，但以色列不会消失。哈马斯以这个已经失败的事业之名，操纵和征服其管辖下的巴勒斯坦人。把火箭弹发射到以色列只会惹来一种毫无疑问的回应，其结果是，随着时间的推移，这加强了让巴勒斯坦人瘫痪的受害者文化。哈马斯是罪犯。把巴勒斯坦的民族事业牺牲在一种幻想上是犯罪，拒绝接受巴勒斯坦解放组织承认以色列有“在和平与安全中生存”的权利是犯罪，决意杀死犹太人是犯罪，愿意看到自己人民的鲜血白流也是犯罪。
A Jewish homeland was voted into existence by United Nations Resolution 181 of 1947 calling for the creation of two states in the Holy Land, one Jewish and one Arab. That homeland was defended through Arab-initiated wars aimed at reversing the world’s post-Holocaust mandate. Israel’s existence is irreversible. It is grounded in that U.N. decision, won on the battlefield, expressed in the forging of a vibrant society; and it represents the rightful resolution of the long Jewish saga of exclusion and persecution.
犹太家园是1947年通过的联合国第181号决议的结果，该决议呼吁在圣地(the Holy Land)成立两个国家，一个犹太国家和一个阿拉伯国家。阿拉伯人为了推翻大屠杀后这个世界的授权，发动了几次战争，犹太家园在这些战争中都坚不可摧。以色列的存在是不可逆转的。其根基是联合国的那项决定，其生存权是从战场上赢得的；以色列代表着犹太人受排斥和受迫害的漫长历史的合法终结。
Except that the resolution is incomplete. Israel’s denial of a Palestinian state, its 47-year occupation of the West Bank, its highly “capricious control regime” (in the words of the former Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad) over the lives of Palestinians, its expansion of settlements — all this creates an unacceptable “status quo” in which every lull is pregnant with violence. The occupation must end one day. Without two states Israel will lurch from one self-inflicted wound to the next, growing ever angrier with its neighbors and a restive world from which it feels alienated.
问题是联合国的决议没有全部成为现实。以色列拒绝让巴勒斯坦建国，占领约旦河西岸已达47年之久，以高度“变化无常的统治方式”（用巴勒斯坦前总理萨拉姆·法耶兹[Salam Fayyad]的话来说）控制巴勒斯坦人的生活，扩大犹太人定居点，所有这一切制造了一种不可接受的“现状”，现状下的每一次平静都孕育着暴力。占领必须有结束的一天。如果没有两个国家，以色列将从一个自我创伤踉跄地走向下一个，对邻国和这个不安宁世界的火气越来越大，觉得世界在疏远它。
With nearly 2,000 dead, including 64 Israeli soldiers, the victors of this latest Gaza mini-war are apparently Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Hamas. Support for Netanyahu is overwhelming. A vast majority of Israelis back his actions; many believe he has not gone far enough. Hamas, meanwhile, has hurt Israel; it has endured; it has exercised command-and-control under prolonged attack; it has embodied Palestinian resistance.
在最近这次加沙的小型战争中，有近2000人死亡，其中包括64名以色列士兵，胜利者显然是以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)，还有就是哈马斯。占压倒多数的以色列人支持内塔尼亚胡的行动；许多人认为他做得还不够。与此同时，哈马斯也给以色列造成了伤害；它坚持下来了；它在持久打击之下仍能行使指挥和控制；它体现了巴勒斯坦人的抵抗力。
But these are Pyrrhic victories. Deeper currents are at work. Surely even Netanyahu must take from this horrific episode the conviction that something must change. He has long pooh-poohed peace. He compared Yitzhak Rabin to Neville Chamberlain, and Israelis somehow forgave him. He came very late and very lamely to the idea of two states for two peoples, only to set impossible conditions for that goal, undermine moderate Palestinians, and waste U.S. mediators’ time.
但这些都是得不偿失的胜利。有更深层次的潮流在起作用。想来就连内塔尼亚胡也必须从这段可怕的事情中得出一个看法：有些东西必须改变。他早就对和平嗤之以鼻。他曾把扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)比作内维尔·张伯伦(Neville Chamberlain)，以色列人居然原谅了他。他很晚才接受了让两个人民成立两个国家的想法，而且很不情愿，于是他给这个目标设定了许多不可能的条件，给温和派巴勒斯坦人釜底抽薪，浪费美国调停者的时间。
He seized a few months ago on the formation of a Hamas-Fatah unity government to say “the pact with Hamas kills peace.” Now Netanyahu would like nothing more than for the Palestinian Authority, representing the Fatah faction, to take control of Gaza. In effect he would like the Palestinian unity he lambasted to work. He knows demilitarization of Gaza, the stated Israeli objective, can only be attained by remilitarizing it with an Israeli tank on every corner. Nobody wants that. Israel is already running the lives of enough Palestinians — or trying to.
他抓住了几个月前组建哈马斯-法塔赫联合政府的机会表示，“与哈马斯的协议杀死了和平。”现在内塔尼亚胡最想看到的，无非是让代表法塔赫派系的巴勒斯坦权力机构接管加沙地带的控制权。实际上，他希望那个被他骂得狗血淋头的巴勒斯坦联合政府能行使权力。让加沙非军事化是以色列宣称的目标，他知道只能通过用以色列坦克占领加沙的每一个角落的这种让其重新军事化的方式来实现这个目标。没有人希望这样。以色列已经在、或企图管太多巴勒斯坦人的生活。
As for Hamas, its victory is also illusory, adrenalin before the fall. It can offer its people nothing. The place to start now is with ending the divisions in the Palestinian movement that the unity government papered over — Gaza first, instead of West Bank first. A Palestinian national consensus is the prerequisite for anything, including the rebuilding and opening-up of Gaza.
至于哈马斯，其胜利也是虚幻的，是跌倒前的一时激动。这种胜利不能给巴勒斯坦人带来任何东西。现在要从结束巴勒斯坦运动中的分歧开始，这是联合政府准备做的事情，首先在加沙，而不是首先在约旦河西岸。巴勒斯坦民族共识是所有事情的前提，包括重建和开放加沙。