GAZA CITY — Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday reached a long-term cease-fire after seven weeks of fighting, according to officials on both sides, halting the longest, bloodiest battle either side has experienced in years — but without resolving many of the bigger issues underlying the conflict.
加沙城——据双方官员称，在战斗进行了七周后，以色列和加沙地带的巴勒斯坦武装分子于周二达成了一项长期停火协议，停止了这场战斗，但却未解决背后许多更大的问题。对双方中的任何一方而言，这都是其多年来经历的持续时间最长、伤亡最惨重的战斗。
“Israel has once again accepted an Egyptian proposal for a complete cease-fire,” a senior Israeli official said on the condition of anonymity. “This cease-fire is unlimited in time.”
“以色列再次接受了埃及全面停火的提议，”一名以色列高官在匿名条件下表示。“这次停火在时间上没有限制。”
Shouts of “God is great” rang out from mosque loudspeakers across Gaza City, as people fired gunshots into the air to celebrate.
伴随着人们的鸣枪庆祝，加沙城各地清真寺的喇叭里传出了“真主至大”的欢呼声。
“We declare the victory of the Palestinian resistance, the victory of Gaza,” Sami Abu Zuhri, a spokesman for the militant Hamas movement that dominates Gaza and led the Palestinian militants’ operation, announced at a news conference at Al Shifa Hospital in Gaza City. “We achieved some of our instantaneous demands out of this battle.”
“我们宣布，巴勒斯坦的抵抗取得了胜利，加沙取得了胜利，”武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)的发言人萨米·阿布·祖赫里(Sami Abu Zuhri)在加沙城希法医院(Al Shifa Hospital)的新闻发布会上说。“我们部分实现了这场战争的直接目标。”哈马斯控制着加沙，是巴勒斯坦武装分子行动的领导者。
The agreement came on the 50th day of a conflict that has killed more than 2,100 Palestinians, most of them civilians, and destroyed thousands of homes and other buildings across Gaza, displacing at least a third of its 1.7 million residents. On the Israeli side, 64 soldiers and five civilians were killed – the last one even as the cease-fire was being announced, as mortar rounds from Gaza struck near a swimming pool on a kibbutz just beyond its border.
协议是在冲突的第50天达成的。超过2100名巴勒斯坦人在这场冲突中死亡，其中大部分为平民，加沙各地数千处房屋和其他建筑被毁，170万居民至少有三分之一背井离乡。而在以色列一方，64名士兵和5名平民丧生，最后一名死者甚至是在双方正在宣布停火时遇难的。当时，来自加沙的迫击炮落在了以色列一处集体农庄的游泳池附近。农庄位于边境的不远处。
People familiar with the agreement said it would ease but not lift Israeli restrictions on travel and trade, largely reviving the terms of a 2012 cease-fire agreement that ended an eight-day air war. It also will allow construction materials and humanitarian aid to enter Gaza in large quantities for a major rebuilding effort, with a monitoring mechanism to ensure that concrete and cement would go only to civilian purposes.
了解停火协议的人士表示，协议将减轻——但不会取消——以色列对人员流动和贸易的限制，在很大程度上，这是恢复2012年一项停火协议的条款。那项协议结束了一场历时八天的空战。协议还将允许大量建筑材料和人道主义援助进入加沙，用于大规模重建工作，并建立一个监督机制，以确保混凝土和水泥仅用于民用目的。
“We’re not interested in allowing Hamas to rebuild its military machine,” the senior Israeli official said.
“我们可不想让哈马斯重建起它的军事机器，”前述以色列高官说。
Other issues — including Hamas’s demand for a Gaza seaport and airport, Israel’s demand for Gaza’s demilitarization, and the return of Israeli soldiers’ remains believed to be in Hamas’s hands — were to be addressed after a month if the truce holds, people familiar with the agreement said.
协议知情人士称，如果休战协议能够持续，其他问题——其中包括哈马斯要求在加沙修建一个港口和机场，以色列要求加沙解除武装，并释放据信仍在哈马斯手中的以色列士兵——将在一个月后进行讨论。
Drafts of a document outlining cease-fire terms had been passed back and forth throughout the day on Tuesday, even as Israeli airstrikes killed at least half a dozen people in Gaza and felled two high-rise buildings. More than 100 rockets from Gaza also rained down on Israel’s battered south, continuing even beyond the 7 p.m. deadline that some officials said marked the onset of the cease-fire. The mortar that killed the Israeli around 6:30 p.m. wounded six others, two of them seriously, according to a spokesman for the Israeli police. In Ashkelon, the Israeli city less than 10 miles from Gaza, a long-range rocket destroyed one home, damaged dozens of others and sent 20 injured people to the hospital, the most in a single strike this summer. The rocket smashed through the red-tile roof of the home where Yuval and Ofra Cohen had lived for 10 years with their children, now 14 and 17, according to the Israeli police and Ynet, an Israeli news site.
周二全天，罗列出停火协议条款的文件草案在来回传阅，尽管与此同时以色列的空袭至少导致加沙6人死亡，两栋高楼坍塌。加沙也有100多枚火箭弹落入以色列受损严重的南部地区，甚至在晚上7点的最后期限过后仍在继续——有些官员说这个时间标志着停火协议的开始。以色列警方的一名发言人称，在下午6：30左右炸死以色列人的迫击炮另外还炸伤了6人，其中两人受伤严重。在距离加沙不到10英里（约合16公里）的以色列城市亚实基伦，一枚远程炮弹炸毁了一座房屋，并导致其他数十座房屋受损，还有20人因此受伤，目前这些人已入院治疗——这是今年夏天在单次袭击中受伤人数最多的一次。以色列警方和新闻网站Ynet称，炮弹炸穿了尤瓦尔(Yuval)和奥芙拉·科恩(Ofra Cohen)与他们14岁和17岁孩子住了10年的房子的红瓦屋顶。
“We hadn’t managed to make it into the safe room when it fell in our bedroom,” Mr. Cohen said in an interview on Army Radio. “It caught us in the children’s room, all the shrapnel and the dust and all of the glass. I don’t know how we escaped without harm, it’s a miracle.”
“炮弹落入我们的卧室时，我们根本来不及进入安全屋，”科恩在以色列军方电台(Army Radio)的采访中说。“我们当时在孩子的房间里，弹片到处都是，尘土飞扬，玻璃碎了一地。我都不知道我们是怎么安全逃离的，真是个奇迹。”