JERUSALEM — Israel published bids on Sunday for the construction of more than 1,000 housing units in contested East Jerusalem and several large West Bank settlements. Hours later, the government announced the names of 26 Palestinian prisoners to be released this week as part of a deal for the resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks here on Wednesday.
耶路撒冷——周日，以色列发布了在有争议的东耶路撒冷和约旦河西岸几个大型定居点修建1000多套住房的施工招标。几个小时候后，政府公布了将于本周释放的26名巴勒斯坦囚犯的姓名，这是周三在耶路撒冷恢复巴以和平谈判的协议中的一部分。
It was a political balancing act that intensified the already charged atmosphere. The settlement move appeared intended to appease the right-wing members of the Israeli government before the release of the 26 prisoners, most of whom have served 20 years or more in prison for deadly attacks against Israelis.
这个平衡政治立场的举动，加剧了本已紧张的气氛。在定居点修建房屋的做法似乎是为了在释放那26名囚犯前安抚以色列政府中的右翼成员。因向以色列人发起致命袭击，这26名囚犯中的大部分人已在狱中服刑20年甚至更长时间。
While the planning and building of settlements have continued in the months preceding the talks, causing constant friction, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s new governing coalition had so far refrained from issuing construction bids since being formed in March. The publishing of bids is the final bureaucratic stage before new construction can begin.
尽管在谈判开始前的数月，定居点的规划和建设一直在持续，且引发了持续的摩擦，但以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)领导的新一届执政联盟自3月成立以来，一直没有发布建筑招标。发布建筑招标是新建设工程开始前的最后一道行政手续。
Uri Ariel, the housing minister from the pro-settlement Jewish Home Party, announced the contentious move while Mr. Netanyahu was recovering in a Jerusalem hospital after surgery for a hernia. The prime minister was discharged later on Sunday.
以色列住房部长乌里·阿里埃勒(Uri Ariel)来自支持建设定居点的犹太家园党(Jewish Home Party)。他宣布这项会引发争议的举措之时，内塔尼亚胡正因疝气手术在耶路撒冷的一家医院恢复。内塔尼亚胡已在周日晚些时候出院。
“No country in the world accepts dictates from other countries about where it is allowed to build and where not,” Mr. Ariel said in a statement, referring to international criticism of Israel’s continuing efforts to build up the settlements.
“世界上没有哪个国家会接受其他国家的命令，允许或不允许它在哪里兴修土木，”阿里埃勒在一份声明中说。他指的是国际社会对以色列持续建设定居点的指责。
Mark Regev, an Israeli government spokesman, said: “The construction decided upon today in Jerusalem and in the settlement blocs is in areas that will remain part of Israel in any possible future peace agreement. This in no way changes the final map of peace. It changes nothing.”
以色列政府的发言人马克∙雷格夫(Mark Regev)说：“不管将来可能签订什么和平协议，今天决定要在耶路撒冷和定居点动工的建筑所处的地区，都将是以色列的一部分。这一点绝不会改变最终的和平路线图。它不会改变什么。”
But it appeared that the talks scheduled for Wednesday would take place amid a storm of mutual recrimination.
但计划于周三举行的谈判似乎会在暴风雨般的相互指责中进行。
Muhammad Shtayyeh, a senior Palestinian negotiator, issued a statement on Sunday accusing Israel of deliberately trying to sabotage the talks and of using them “as a smoke screen for more settlement construction.”
周日，巴勒斯坦方面的高级谈判代表穆罕默德·什塔叶(Muhammad Shtayyeh)发表了一份声明，谴责以色列故意试图破坏谈判，并把谈判“作为在定居点兴修更多建筑的烟幕弹”。
Last week, Saeb Erekat, another senior Palestinian negotiator, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, who brokered the deal for resuming talks. The letter protested Israel’s preliminary approval for 800 new homes in the West Bank, many of them in small, isolated settlements likely to be removed as part of any final peace agreement.
上周，巴勒斯坦的另一名高级谈判代表赛义卜·埃雷卡特(Saeb Erekat)给美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)寄了一封信，克里促使巴以双方为恢复谈判达成了协议。埃雷卡特在信中抗议以色列初步批准在约旦河西岸新建800套新房屋，计划修建的这些房屋中，许多都位于偏僻的小定居点，不管最终签订什么和平协议，那些定居点都可能会被清除。
Although the settlement construction bids that the Israeli government issued Sunday were all for housing in areas that Israel intends to keep under any agreement with the Palestinians, the timing of the move prompted criticism in Israel, even from within the government.
尽管以色列政府周日发布的定居点住房施工招标所涉及的地区，无论与巴勒斯坦签订任何协议，以色列都打算保留，但这一举动的时机选择还是引发了以色列国内，乃至政府内部的指责。
The finance minister, Yair Lapid of the centrist Yesh Atid Party, said in a statement that using housing resources “to needlessly challenge the Americans and to poke sticks in the wheels of peace talks is not right and not helpful to the process.”
来自中间派政党未来党(Yesh Atid Party)的财政部长亚伊尔·拉皮德(Yair Lapid)在一份声明中说，用住房资源“来对美国人进行不必要的挑战、阻碍和谈进程是不正确的，而且对整个过程也没有帮助”。
Anti-settlement activists in Israel who monitor construction said that the bids for about half of the nearly 800 units to be built in East Jerusalem were not even new and had been previously published. But because they did not end in contracts, they were eligible to be reissued on Sunday.
监督建筑工程的以色列反定居活动人士说，将在东耶路撒冷建立的近800套房屋中，有将近一半的招标甚至都不是新的，此前都已经被发布过。但是由于并未最终签订合同，所以周日得以被重新发布。
Amram Mitzna, a legislator from the party of Tzipi Livni, the Israeli government’s chief negotiator with the Palestinians, described the settlement announcement as “delusional” and said the government was taking contradictory actions.
齐皮·利夫尼(Tzipi Livni)是以色列政府与巴勒斯坦谈判的首席谈判代表。来自利夫尼所属政党的议员阿姆拉姆·米茨纳(Amram Mitzna)称，定居工程的声明“不切实际”，还说政府正在采取相互矛盾的举措。
“It takes a step, a very difficult step, a very sensitive step, such as the release of murderers,” he told Israel Radio. “On the other hand, it tries to balance it, as it were, by building in the territories.”
“政府采取了一项措施，一项非常困难、极其敏感的措施，比如释放凶手，”他告诉以色列电台(Israel Radio)。“另一方面可以说，它又试图通过在那些地区建造房屋来寻找平衡。”