Secretary of State John Kerry has pulled off a major achievement in getting Israelis and Palestinians to say yes to the United States. Can he now get them to say yes to each other?
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)让以色列和巴勒斯坦都听了美国的话，在这一点上他取得了重大的成绩。但他能让双方取得共识吗？
I admire Kerry’s doggedness in getting Israelis and Palestinians back to the negotiating table for the first time in five years, in part by making clear that whoever said no to America’s urging that they resume talks would be called out publicly. I also like the fact that Kerry dared to fail. It is how you make history as a secretary of state. It can also be helpful to him going forward. Even a little success like this breeds more authority, and more authority can breed more success in other arenas.
我很钦佩克里有毅力让以色列和巴勒斯坦在五年时间里首次回到谈判桌前，尤其是阐明无论谁拒绝美国的敦促，都会受到公开批评。我也很欣赏克里敢于失败的精神，作为国务卿，只有这样才能创造历史。前进对于他本人来说也有帮助，即使是这样一个小小的成功，也为他带来了更大的权威，而更大的权威则会在其他领域产生更大的成功。
That said, the prospects for an Israeli-Palestinian deal remain slim. Indeed, if these negotiations were a play, it would be called: “When the Necessary Met the Impossible.”
尽管如此，以色列和巴勒斯坦之间达成妥协的前景仍然渺茫。实际上，如果这些谈判是一出戏的话，这出戏应该叫“当必要的遇上不可能的”。
So why should we even bother? I’ve always thought that the most important rule of journalism is: Never try to be smarter than the story. There is every reason to doubt that these talks will succeed, but when you look under the hood of this story you find there were some powerful forces propelling both sides to say yes to Kerry — and at least consider saying yes to each other, so it’s worth letting this play out a little.
那我们为什么还要大费周章？我一直认为新闻报道最重要的原则是：永远都不要努力显得比事件本身还聪明。我们完全有理由怀疑这些谈判是否会成功，但如果深入地观察这个事件，你就会发现有某些强大的力量驱使着双方答应克里的要求，并且至少考虑一下答应对方的要求，因此让这个事件再继续发展一段时间也是值得的。
Let’s start with a small item in Britain’s Independent newspaper on July 24, which began: “He once sang, ‘You Gotta Get Outta This Place,’ but now Eric Burdon is not even turning up at all having deciding to withdraw from a planned concert in Israel. ... The Animals frontman, whose hits include ‘House of the Rising Sun,’ and ‘San Franciscan Nights,’ had been due to perform alongside local Israeli bands in Binyamina. ... However, in a statement, Mr. Burdon’s management, said: ‘We’ve been receiving mounting pressure, including numerous threatening e-mails, daily. ...’ Burdon was just the latest of a rising number of artists and intellectuals who have started boycotting Israel over the occupation issue.”
我们先从英国《独立报》(Independent)在7月24日刊登的一篇短文说起。这篇文章开头说到：“他曾经唱过，‘你得离开这个地方’(You Gotta Get Outta This Place)，但现在埃里克·伯登(Eric Burdon)却连去都不去了，他决定从一场计划在以色列举行的演唱会中撤出……作为‘动物’(The Animals)乐队的主唱，他的走红单曲有《日升之家》(House of the Rising Sun)和《旧金山之夜》(San Franciscan Nights)。他原计划与以色列当地乐队在本雅明那同台献艺……然而，伯登的经纪人发表声明说：‘我们每天都会面临巨大的压力，包括许许多多的威胁电邮……’越来越多的艺术家和知识分子开始就占领问题抵制以色列，伯登只是其中最新的一个。”
Israel’s continued occupation of the West Bank is isolating the Jewish state more and more. Just before Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu agreed to these negotiations, the European Union announced new guidelines banning E.U. financing or cooperating with any Israeli institutions in territory seized during the 1967 war. This involves research grants, scholarships and cultural exchanges. The E.U. is considering requiring any products made in West Bank settlements to be labeled as such (some individual E.U. states already do) to make them easier to for Europeans to boycott. These are dangerous trends for Israel. The E.U. is one of Israel’s largest trading partners. And now add the fact that Palestine has been granted U.N. status as a “nonmember observer state,” so President Mahmoud Abbas is positioned to ask the International Criminal Court to investigate Israel’s settlement activities in the West Bank, which are widely viewed as contravening international law.
以色列对约旦河西岸的持续占领正在越来越多地孤立这个犹太国家。就在以色列总理比比·内塔尼亚胡(Bibi Netanyahu)同意举行会谈之前不久，欧洲联盟(European Union)刚刚宣布了新的原则，禁止欧盟在1967年战争中占领的土地上，为任何以色列机构提供资金或与之开展合作。其中包括研究拨款、奖学金和文化交流。欧盟正在考虑，要求在约旦河西岸定居点生产的商品上，如实标注产地，从而便于欧洲人进行抵制。个别欧盟成员国已经在这样做了。这些对以色列都是危险的趋势，欧盟是以色列最大的贸易伙伴之一。现在再加上巴勒斯坦已经被赋予了联合国“非会员观察员国”地位，巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)可以要求国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)调查以色列在约旦河西岸的定居活动，这些活动被广泛认为是违背国际法的。
Meanwhile, Abbas was looking at a situation where the turmoil in the Arab world was both sidelining the Palestinian issue and weakening his archrival Hamas, which had been supported by the Syrian regime and Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood. If Abbas — who foolishly did not take advantage of former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s offer of a two-state deal in 2008 — did not take advantage of this renewed U.S. effort, it is not clear when the next bus would come again for him, if at all.
与此同时，阿巴斯面对的局面是，阿拉伯世界的动荡既让巴勒斯坦问题边缘化，也削弱了他的劲敌哈马斯(Hamas)，后者得到了叙利亚政权和埃及穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的支持。阿巴斯在2008年时愚蠢地没有接受以色列前总理埃胡德·奥尔默特(Ehud Olmert)提出的两国妥协方案，如果阿巴斯再不抓住美国这次再度发力的机遇，即使他还有下一次机会，也不知道那要等到何年何月了。
If all of that explains why both sides felt these talks were necessary, what makes them feel impossible is the sheer accretion of obstacles. There are some 350,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank and at least 50,000 to 80,000 would have to be moved, even after land swaps. There are tens of thousands of Palestinian refugees living outside the West Bank and Gaza who will have to be persuaded that they can return to those two places but never again to their original homes in pre-1967 Israel. Hamas will try to use any Abbas concessions to undermine him, while rightists in Israel will go ballistic over any Israeli givebacks in Jerusalem, while Palestinians will denounce any leader who does not restore a Palestinian foothold there.
如果上述理由能解释为什么双方都感觉谈判是必要的，那么经年积累起的巨大障碍，则会让他们感觉不可能取得结果。在约旦河西岸有35万名犹太定居者，即使在土地置换后，也至少有5万至8万人必须搬迁。在约旦河西岸及加沙地带以外，有数以万计的巴勒斯坦难民，需要通过劝说让他们接受，他们能回到这两个地区，但再也不能回到1967年以色列境内的老家。哈马斯会抓住阿巴斯做出的任何让步诋毁他，而以色列右翼也会因以色列在耶路撒冷问题上的任何退让勃然大怒，同时巴勒斯坦人也会谴责任何一个不能在耶路撒冷为他们恢复一块立足之地的领导人。
And have no doubt: just trying to make peace will have consequences the minute both sides reveal their maps. One should never forget just how crazy some of Israel’s Jewish settlers are. They assassinated Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin when he tried to cede part of the West Bank for peace. Nor should one underestimate the capacity of Palestinian hard-liners to generate suicidal violence when left only with despair or a sense that their leadership is selling them out.
不要怀疑，单单是努力推动和平，只要双方一打开地图，就会产生后果。我们永远都不应忘记，以色列的某些犹太定居者有多么疯狂。以色列前总理伊扎克·拉宾(Yitzhak Rabin)为了实现和平，而尝试退还约旦河西岸一部分土地时，就被那些人刺杀了。我们也不能低估巴勒斯坦强硬派深陷绝望时，或感到领导人出卖自己时，实施自杀式暴力袭击的能力。
But doing nothing also promised disaster — permanent Israeli control of the West Bank — and I think the center in both communities has come to see that. I repeat: They did not come to the table by accident or just to please us. But saying yes to each other will require a new kind of leadership from Abbas and Netanyahu. They will have to help each other face down their respective internal opponents rather than use each other as an excuse for not doing so. How and whether they do that is the drama that you’re about to see play out. Pull up a chair.
然而如果无所作为，使以色列永久控制约旦河西岸，也一定会铸成灾难，我想两个群体中的核心都已经逐渐认识到了这一点。我重申：他们坐到谈判桌前，并不是意外，也不只是为了取悦我们。然而相互之间达成共识却需要阿巴斯和内塔尼亚胡展现一种新的领导力。他们必须要互相帮助，以面对各自内部的反对者，而不是拿对方作为借口，不去直面那些反对者。你即将看到的这场戏就是：他们会不会这样做，又到底会怎么做。拉把椅子过来，拭目以待吧。