JERUSALEM — Palestinian deaths from Israel’s aerial attacks in Gaza rose sharply on Thursday, while militants there fired more than 180 rockets into Israel, reaching new targets spread across a vast area of the country.
耶路撒冷——本周四，以色列空袭加沙造成的巴勒斯坦死亡人数大幅跃升，而武装分子向以色列发射逾180枚火箭弹，覆盖了该国一大片地区，并击中了新的目标。
The escalation appeared to increase the likelihood of a ground invasion and prompted the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, to call urgently for a return to calm and a cease-fire.
形势的升级似乎增加了地面入侵的可能性，也促使联合国秘书长潘基文紧急呼吁双方恢复平静，实现停火。
“Today, we face the risk of an all-out escalation in Israel and Gaza, with the threat of a ground offensive still palpable — and preventable only if Hamas stops rocket firing,” he told an emergency meeting of the Security Council. There were no signs that a cease-fire was imminent, and no signs that diplomats representing the antagonists were heeding Mr. Ban’s call for calm.
“今天，以色列和加沙地带面临着冲突全面升级的风险，有可能会出现地面进攻。只有哈马斯停止发射火箭弹，这种状况才可能避免，”他在安理会紧急会议上说。目前还没有迹象表明双方会很快停火，也没有迹象表明，敌对双方的外交官有意听从潘基文对和平的呼吁。
Ron Prosor, Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations, played an air-raid siren at the Council meeting to reflect what his country’s citizens hear every day. He called his Palestinian counterpart, Riyad Mansour, “a mouthpiece of Hamas.” Mr. Mansour blamed the underlying Israeli occupation, exhorting the Council to intervene and “salvage prospects for peace and security.”
以色列驻联合国大使罗恩·普罗索尔(Ron Prosor)在安理会的这个会议上播放了防空警报的声音，以显示以色列公民每天听到的声音。他称巴勒斯坦常驻联合国观察员里亚德·曼苏尔(Riyad Mansour)是“哈马斯的喉舌”。曼苏尔则指责以色列的占领是发生冲突的根本原因，并敦促安理会进行干预，“拯救和平与安全的前景”。
In a televised statement after a cabinet meeting, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said, “While the campaign has gone as planned, further stages yet await us,” describing what was to come as “tough” and “complex.”
以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在举行内阁会议后，发表电视讲话说，“虽然行动在按计划进行，前面还有更多的阶段等待着我们”，他还表示，未来将会出现的局面既“艰苦”又“复杂”。
“We have struck hard at Hamas and the terrorists, and as long as the campaign continues we will strike at them harder,” he said.
“我们已对哈马斯和恐怖分子予以了沉重打击，只要活动仍在继续，我们就会以更大的力度进行打击，”他说。
President Obama spoke with Mr. Netanyahu by phone on Thursday from Air Force One while returning to Washington from a fund-raising trip to Colorado and Texas. A White House statement said that Mr. Obama expressed concern about further escalation of violence and told the Israeli leader that the United States remained “prepared to facilitate a cessation of hostilities” between Israel and the Palestinians. Aides said Mr. Obama also expressed condolences about the murder of three Israeli teenagers and concern about the beating of a teenage American citizen.
本周四，奥巴马在空军一号上与内塔尼亚胡通了电话，当时他结束了科罗拉多州和德克萨斯州的筹款活动，正在返回华盛顿的途中。白宫发表声明说，奥巴马表达了对暴力行动进一步升级的关注，并告诉内塔尼亚胡，美国一直“准备好提供协助，以促进以色列和巴勒斯坦之间敌对行动的中止”。助手们说，奥巴马还表达了对三名以色列少年遭到谋杀和一名美国籍少年被殴打的慰问。
A spokesman for the Israeli military said that about 20,000 reservists had been called up and that preparations for a possible ground operation were being completed
以色列军方的一名发言人说，他们已经召集了大约2万名预备役人员，而且已经为有可能采取的地面行动做好了准备。
As the air campaign entered its third day, the Palestinian death toll rose to at least 78, a majority of them civilians, according to officials in Gaza. No Israelis have been reported killed.
随着空袭进入第三天，巴勒斯坦的死亡人数上升到至少78人，其中大部分为平民，加沙官员表示。目前还没有以色列人丧生的报道。
Airstrikes overnight on a house in Khan Younis and an open-air beach cafe killed at least 15 Palestinians, and one airstrike hit a car used by a local news agency bearing media signs, killing the driver, Hamed Shehab, 27, the officials said. The Israeli military said it had also hit at least eight operatives from Hamas and Islamic Jihad in what it described as several precision strikes. The military said all had been involved in either the manufacture or firing of rockets.
该官员说，以色列在夜里空袭了一所位于汗尤尼斯镇的房子，以及一个露天海滩咖啡馆，造成至少15名巴勒斯坦人遇难，另一次空袭击中了当地通讯社一辆带有媒体标志的车辆，导致27岁的司机哈米德·谢哈布(Hamed Shehab)丧命。以色列军方表示，针对哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织的至少八名成员，它实施了几次“精确打击”，而这些人均与火箭弹的制造或发射有关。
The Palestine chapter of Defense for Children International, an independent child-rights organization, said 14 children aged 15 and younger had been killed in the airstrikes on Tuesday and Wednesday, including four toddlers. The group issued a list with the names and ages of those killed, saying its Gaza-based field worker had verified each death.
独立的儿童权利组织“儿童保护国际”(Defense for Children International)巴勒斯坦分部称，在周二和周三的空袭中，有14名15岁及以下儿童丧生，其中包括4名幼儿。该组织发布了一份包含遇害者姓名和年龄的清单，并称其在加沙现场的工作人员已经逐个进行了核实。
Ghazi Hamad, a Hamas leader, said on Palestinian radio, “What we need is for the international community to pressure the occupation to halt its aggression, which is unjustified.” He was referring to Israel.
哈马斯的一名领导人加齐·哈马德(Ghazi Hamad)在巴勒斯坦电台上表示，“我们需要的是国际社会对占领方施压，让它停止不正当的侵略行径。”他说的占领方是指以色列。
The rocket fire into Israel reached Mitzpeh Ramon, a town deep in the Negev desert, and the Dead Sea area for the first time. More rockets were intercepted by the Iron Dome missile defense system or fell in open spaces in the Tel Aviv area of central Israel. Sirens wailed in Jerusalem in the early evening and two rockets were intercepted above the city; two more fell in open areas, one on the outskirts of the West Bank city of Ramallah.
发射到以色列的火箭弹首次落到了内盖夫沙漠深处的小镇弥特斯泼拉蒙以及死海地区。还有更多的火箭弹被“铁穹”防御系统拦截，或者落入以色列中部特拉维夫地区的开阔地带。傍晚时分，警报声在耶路撒冷呼啸，两枚火箭弹在这座城市上空被拦截，还有另外两枚落入了开阔地带，其中一处是约旦河西岸城市拉姆安拉的郊区。
Southern cities that have been the targets of rocket fire for years, like Ashdod and Beersheba, came under heavy rocket attack. The rockets caused extensive property damage but no serious injuries as Israelis ran for cover in shelters and fortified rooms with each siren.
多年以来，阿什杜德和贝尔谢巴等南方城市一直都是火箭弹攻击的目标，本次它们遭受重创。火箭弹袭击给这些城市带来了巨大的财产损失，但没有造成严重的人员伤亡情况，因为每次响起警报，以色列人就会跑到防空设施和加固的房屋中躲避。
Mr. Ban, while repeating his condemnation of indiscriminate rocket fire from Gaza into Israel, also warned Israel, saying “the excessive use of force and endangering of civilian lives are also intolerable.”
潘基文再次谴责了哈马斯从加沙向以色列肆意发射火箭弹的举动，同时也警告以色列说，“过度使用武力，给平民带来性命之忧，这也是无法容受的。”
“Once again,” he said, “Palestinian civilians are caught between Hamas’s irresponsibility and Israel’s tough response.”
“哈马斯的不负责任和以色列的强硬反应再一次令巴勒斯坦平民陷入险境，”他说。