For all of the intricacies of issues like the shape of future borders, security arrangements and the status of Jerusalem, the Middle East peace talks that resumed Monday night are dominated by two simple questions: If it took Secretary of State John Kerry countless phone calls and six trips to the Middle East just to get Israeli and Palestinian officials to the negotiating table, how will it be possible to achieve a comprehensive peace agreement? And what will happen if his herculean negotiating efforts fall short?
尽管诸如未来边境线的位置、安全措施的安排及耶路撒冷的地位等问题有着种种复杂之处，周一晚间恢复的中东和平对话却被两个简单问题所主宰：如果国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)需要打无数个电话，并且造访中东六次，才让以色列和巴勒斯坦官员坐到谈判桌前的话，那怎么会有可能达成全面的和平协议？如果这种促成谈判的巨大努力失败，又会怎样？
In a brief appearance at the State Department on Monday, Mr. Kerry said his goal was to pursue “reasonable compromises” of some of the Middle East’s most intractable issues.
周一，克里在国务院(State Department)短暂露面时表示，他的目标是对中东最棘手的一些问题寻求“合理的妥协”。
“I know the negotiations are going to be tough, but I also know that the consequences of not trying could be worse,” he said.
他说，“我知道谈判会很艰难，但我也知道，如果不试一试，后果可能更糟糕。”
In making the revival of the Middle East talks his top priority, Mr. Kerry is not only challenging the status quo in the region but also taking on the conventional wisdom in much of the American foreign policy establishment.
通过把恢复中东和谈当做自己最重要的工作，克里不仅挑战了该地区的现状，也挑战了美国外交政策系统中很多人的传统智慧。
The prevailing narrative among the pundits, including more than a few experienced Middle East hands, is that while the Israelis and Palestinians may have sent their negotiators to Washington to placate Mr. Kerry, neither side appears remotely prepared to make the hard calls needed to cement a lasting peace.
包括许多中东问题老手在内的专家的主流观点是，尽管以色列和巴勒斯坦可能派谈判人员到了华盛顿，以安抚克里，但双方都远远没有准备好为获取长久的和平而做出艰难抉择。
Some experts argue that it may even be risky to try.
一些专家辩称，可能试一试都很危险。
“The existence of talks can have a calming effect while they continue, and if they continue for several months can get us through the U.N. General Assembly without bitter Israeli-Palestinian confrontations,” said Elliott Abrams, who was a senior official on President George W. Bush’s National Security Council.
在乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)政府的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)中曾担任高级官员的埃利奥特·艾布拉姆斯(Elliott Abrams)说，“当和谈继续时，其存在本身就有一种令人平静的效果。如果和谈持续数月，就能使我们开完联合国大会(U.N. General Assembly)而不发生激烈的巴以冲突。”
“But I see no realistic possibility that a final status agreement can be reached now,” Mr. Abrams said. “I just hope there are two State Department teams: one to work on the talks, and the other to start planning for what to do when they fail. We should not only try to avoid a crash landing, but see if the talks can be used to advance Israeli-Palestinian economic and security cooperation.”
艾布拉姆斯说，“但是我看不到达成任何最终地位协议的实际可能性。我希望国务院有两个团队：一个致力于谈话，另外一个开始计划如果谈判失败了怎么办。我们不仅要试图防止出现紧急着陆现象，还要看和谈是否可被用于促进巴以经济安全合作。”
In recent weeks, Mr. Kerry and his aides have outlined several basic arguments for why his efforts might bear fruit. Perhaps the most important one, which Mr. Kerry advanced almost the moment he was picked for the State Department post, is that the United States does not have the luxury of staying on the sidelines.
最近几周，克里和他的助手给出了多个基本论点，以说明他们的努力为什么会带来成果。可能最重要的一个论点是，美国不具备隔岸观火的奢侈地位。几乎从克里被选择担任国务卿的那一刻起，他就开始宣扬这个观点。
With the Palestinians poised to take their claim for statehood to the International Criminal Court and United Nations bodies, American officials say the two sides were facing a downward spiral in which the Israelis would respond by cutting off financing to the Palestinian territories and European nations might curtail their investment in Israel, further isolating the Israelis.
巴勒斯坦人已经准备好，让国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)和联合国(United Nations)各机构处理自己宣示主权国家地位的问题，美国官员称，双方面对的情况在恶化，以色列可能以切断对巴勒斯坦人聚居区的资金作为回应，而欧洲各国可能停止对以色列投资，进一步孤立以色列。
Another argument Mr. Kerry has used is that diplomatic progress would foster as much as $4 billion in private sector investment in the Palestinian economy, a portion of which would take effect in the near term.
克里的另一个观点是，外交进展将促使私营部门投入高达40亿美元的资金到巴勒斯坦经济中，其中一部分将在短期内生效。
He has also reasoned that he can make headway by taking a new look at Israel’s security requirements and the arrangements to safeguard them. John R. Allen, the retired general who used to lead the Afghan campaign, has been working to define what those requirements would be in any West Bank territory that is handed back to the Palestinians.
他还推断说，通过以新眼光来看待以色列的安全需求以及保障这些需求所做的安排，他可以取得进展。领导过阿富汗战役的退役将军约翰·R·艾伦（John R. Allen）已经开始界定，在交还给巴勒斯坦人的任何西岸领土上，这些需求是什么。
Mr. Kerry extracted a commitment that the two sides would give the talks at least nine months, which provides some time to explore ideas without fears of a walkout.
克里让双方承诺，他们至少会开展九个月的会谈，这就提供了一些时间，让大家探讨各种想法，而不必担心有人半途离开。
One argument that Mr. Kerry and his team have been careful not to make publicly, but that Arab, Israeli and American officials have begun to speculate about, is that something less than a comprehensive settlement might be achievable.
有一个观点，克里和他的团队一直小心翼翼地避免公之于众，但是阿拉伯、以色列和美国的官员已经就此展开猜测，这个观点就是：双方或许可以达成一个非全面解决方案。
A guiding principle of final status talks so far — the Camp David summit meeting and Taba talks in 2000 and 2001, the Annapolis process from 2007 to 2008, and the brief round of discussions in 2010 between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority — has been that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed upon, that any deal reached must mean the end of the conflict and the end of claims by either side.
至今为止，最终地位谈判——2000年的戴维营首脑会议、2001年的塔巴会谈、2007年至2008年的安纳波利斯进程，以及2010年以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)和巴勒斯坦国总统马哈茂德·阿巴斯（Mahmoud Abbas）进行的一轮简要讨论——有一个指导原则 ，就是直到一切都商定之前，不会就任何单一问题达成协议，而达成任何协议就必须意味着冲突结束，以及双方不再提出要求。
Many experts now say this guiding principle ought to be changed, given the deep lack of trust between the two sides, the political constraints both are under and the substantive gaps in their positions.
许多专家说，现在，鉴于巴以严重缺乏互信、双方在政治上面临的限制，以及他们在立场上的实质性差距，这一指导原则应该有所改变。
“They have got to get rid of this mantra,” said Yossi Alpher, a strategic analyst who has been involved in the Israeli-Palestinian dialogue for years. “If nothing is agreed until everything is agreed,” he said, “they will agree on nothing.”
“他们必须摆脱这个陈腐理论。”参与巴以对话多年的战略分析师约西·阿尔菲(Yossi Alpher)说。“如果直到一切事情商定之前，任何问题都无法达成一致，”他说：“他们就不会在任何事情上取得一致。”
One area Mr. Kerry and his critics appear to agree on is that having made Middle East peacemaking his top priority, the secretary of state has raised the stakes so much that if this effort collapses, it will be a long time before anybody tries again.
克里和他的批评者似乎都赞成的一个观点，就是尽力实现中东和平是克里的首要任务，他在这方面投入了这么多，如果谈判告崩，那么今后的很长一段时间内，都不会再有任何人进行这方面的尝试。
“Many people will conclude that there is no chance for a two-state solution,” said Michael Herzog, an Israeli fellow of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “That could be very dangerous.” Mr. Herzog, a retired brigadier general who has participated in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process since 1993, said the fact that the sides were going into the negotiations without agreed-upon parameters indicated that it was going to be an “uphill struggle.”
“很多人都觉得，‘两国方案’没有任何成功机会。”华盛顿近东政策研究所的一名以色列研究员迈克尔·赫尔佐克(Michael Herzog)说，“那可能非常危险。”赫尔佐格是一名退役的准将，自1993年以来就开始参与巴以和平进程。他说，各方在进入会谈时，没有商定一致的界限，表明这将会是一场“艰苦的斗争”。
He added, “I, like many others, am skeptical, but I do believe it is very important that we try.”
他补充说，“跟许多人一样，我也对会谈持怀疑态度，但我相信，我们进行尝试本身就非常重要。”