JERUSALEM — As a 72-hour cease-fire mediated by Egypt took hold on Tuesday, Gazans emerged to view a shattered landscape with Hamas still in power, while Israel began to debate the politics, costs and accomplishments of the monthlong war.
耶路撒冷——随着埃及提出的72小时停火协议于周二开始生效，加沙民众看到了一片破碎的景象，哈马斯仍旧掌控该地区，以色列则开始就这场长达一个月的战争带来的政治问题、代价及成就展开讨论。
Israel announced the withdrawal of all its forces from the Gaza Strip and both sides said they would engage in talks on a lasting arrangement to keep the peace. But the negotiations, also to be mediated by Egypt, are bound to be tricky; and given the participants’ antagonisms and sharply different goals, the cease-fire could still collapse. Israeli officials emphasized that their army, navy and air force remain deployed near the coastal territory, primed to respond to any attacks from Gaza.
以色列宣布，以军全部从加沙地带撤离，双方表示将就签订维持和平的持久协议举行谈判，同样由埃及从中斡旋。但这些谈判势必非常棘手；鉴于谈判双方的敌对状态，以及截然不同的目标，停火协议可能会瓦解。以色列官员强调，他们的陆海空三军仍然部署在沿海地区附近，准备应对来自加沙的一切攻击。
Since the conflict began in earnest on July 8, Gaza officials say, more than 1,830 Palestinians have died, most of them civilians, with more of the dead likely to emerge as the rubble is cleared away. Israel says 64 of its soldiers and three civilians have been killed.
加沙官员表示，自7月8日爆发冲突以来，已有逾1830名巴勒斯坦人死亡，其中大多数为平民，随着碎石逐渐被清理，可能会发现越来越多的尸体。以色列称，64名以色列士兵及三名平民被杀害。
But people on both sides are already wondering if the death and destruction was worth what is essentially another standoff between Israel and Hamas, the militant Islamic group that governs Gaza, and its ally Islamic Jihad, with no clear victor or vanquished. The cease-fire proposal accepted late Monday night is essentially the same one that was rejected by Hamas three weeks ago, before the Israelis moved into Gaza with ground troops, and on its face it resolves little.
但双方都在考虑，这种死亡与毁灭是否值得以色列与哈马斯及其盟友伊斯兰圣战组织(Islamic Jihad)再一次陷入僵局，在僵局中，没有明确的胜利者和战败者。周一深夜达成的停火协议基本上与哈马斯三周之前拒绝的方案相同，哈马斯拒绝停火之后，以色列地面部队进入加沙，从表面上看，停火协议并没有解决多少问题。
In Gaza City, there was little sense of celebration that the fighting had stopped, although many of those interviewed said they thought this cease-fire was more likely to succeed than previous ones, which quickly collapsed amid new violence.
加沙城里没有庆祝战争结束的氛围，尽管很多接受采访的人表示，他们认为与之前的协议相比，该协议更有可能成功，随着新的暴力活动的出现，之前的协议迅速瓦解。
Gaza’s streets slowly filled with cars, donkey carts and trucks, many of them piled with the belongings of displaced families moving from one spot to another toting mattresses, kitchen supplies and bags of clothes.
加沙的街道上慢慢挤满了汽车、驴车和卡车，其中很多车辆上堆满了流离失所的家庭的物品，他们带着床垫、厨房用具及几袋衣服不停地转移。
Residents began to venture out more freely, going to shops and banks or just taking a walk. Fruit stands were full of pears and watermelons, though they had few customers. Men had returned to their familiar stations on plastic chairs outside electronics shops. A man sat in a barber’s chair, orange smock on his shoulders, getting a trim.
居民们开始敢于外出了，去商店和银行，或者只是出门走走。水果摊上摆满了梨和西瓜，但很少有顾客光顾。男人们像往常一样，坐在电子产品商店外的塑料椅上。一名肩上披着桔色罩衫的男子正在理发。
Many shops displayed merchandise they had hoped to sell for the holiday at the end of Ramadan but left locked in storerooms because of the conflict. Many gas stations were closed, and given the lack of electricity, traffic lights were out.
很多商店都摆出了他们原本希望在斋月结束后的节日里出售的商品，但冲突爆发后，这些商品只能放进库房。很多加油站都没有开门，由于电力短缺，交通灯都已熄灭。
Gaza faces a major challenge in reconstruction, with its infrastructure, always shaky, badly damaged. Electrical cables are down, the only power plant is out of action, the water and sewage systems are damaged and hospitals urgently need resupplying. There is also the less visible psychological impact of modern war among ordinary people, especially children.
加沙面临重大的重建挑战，这里的基础设施从来不太稳固，现在又遭到严重破坏。电缆掉到了地上，唯一的发电厂也停止运转，供水和排污系统受损，医院急需补给。现代战争还对普通人造成了不那么清晰可见的心理影响，特别是儿童。
About 260,000 of Gaza’s 1.8 million residents have been displaced by the fighting, according to the United Nations, and many thousands of them remain huddled in schools or living with friends and relatives, because the destruction wrought by the war left them with no homes to return to.
据联合国(United Nations)透露，加沙有180万名居民，其中大约有26万因战事流离失所，其中很多人依旧挤在学校居住，或者与朋友、亲属住在一起，因为战争摧毁了他们的住所，他们无家可归。
“I just came back to see my house,” said Jihad Harara, 65, sitting on a plastic chair in front of a damaged mosque in eastern Gaza City. Across the street stretched an expanse of collapsed apartment buildings that now lay in a mess of concrete and rebar. “Even if I can’t sleep there, I wanted to see it.”
65岁的吉哈德·哈拉拉(Jihad Harara)坐在加沙城东部一座受损清真寺前的塑料椅上说，“我回来看看我的房子。”街对面那一片倒塌的公寓大楼周围全是混凝土和钢筋。他说，“尽管不能在里面睡觉，我还是想看看房子。”
After remaining nearly invisible to most Gazans throughout the war, Hamas policemen emerged in some areas, patrolling in blue and white trucks and inspecting damaged neighborhoods.
战争期间，大多数加沙人几乎见不到哈马斯警察的踪影，如今，他们出现在一些区域，开着蓝色和白色的卡车巡逻，在受损的街区勘察。
New billboards had been put up recently in Gaza City, one of them showing a group of fighters and a tunnel with the words “The Tunnels of Glory” and “Passages to Arrive in Jerusalem.”
最近，加沙城竖起了新的广告牌，其中一块广告牌上展示了一群作战人员和一条地道，配有“荣耀地道”和“到达耶路撒冷的通道”等文字。
Hamas’s Al Aqsa radio station alternated between triumphant jihadi anthems and talk shows about how “the resistance” had vanquished the “Zionist enemy” with its rockets, forcing it to withdraw from Gaza.
哈马斯的阿克萨(Al-Aqsa)电台交替播放圣战凯歌和谈话节目，讲述“抵抗力量”如何利用火箭弹击败“犹太复国主义敌人”，迫使他们撤离加沙。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, the Israeli military spokesman, said Israel had finished destroying about 32 tunnels built by Hamas and leading into Israel, and that Israeli forces had killed about 900 militants, a figure that is bound to be challenged by Hamas. He said that Israel had destroyed more than 3,000 rockets belonging to Hamas and its Islamic Jihad and that those groups had launched more than 3,300 rockets toward Israel. Israel believes that they have 3,000 remaining rockets.
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)表示，以色列已经摧毁了大约23个由哈马斯建造的通往以色列的地道，空军击毙大约900名武装分子，哈马斯势必会对这个数字提出异议。他表示，以色列摧毁了哈马斯及伊斯兰圣战组织的3000多枚火箭弹，他们向以色列发射了3300多枚火箭弹。以色列认为，他们还剩3000枚火箭弹。
But Hamas and Islamic Jihad appeared ready now for the conflict to come to a halt, even though the cease-fire proposal is little changed from one they had rejected earlier and with no promise of Israeli concessions.
不过，哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织现在似乎做好了结束冲突的准备，虽然这次的停火计划与早些时候被他们否决了的那个版本几乎没有差别，同样看不到以色列方面有任何让步的承诺。
The cease-fire could break down over negotiations for a more durable arrangement, or it could be extended beyond the initial 72 hours. “It’s clear now that the interest of all parties is to have a cease-fire,” said Bassam Salhi, a Palestinian delegate in Cairo. “It’s going to be tough negotiations because Israel has demands, too. We don’t have any guarantees the siege will be removed.”
停火可能因为对更持久安排的讨论而破裂，也有可能被延长，超出最初约定的72小时。“目前毫无疑问的是，停火符合各方的利益，”巴勒斯坦驻开罗代表巴萨姆·萨尔希(Bassam Salhi)说。“谈判将无比艰难，因为以色列有自己的诉求。我们不能保证围困会解除。”
Israeli demands are for security, a durable end to attacks from Gaza and strong control over what comes in and out of Gaza, aided by the Egyptians, to prevent Hamas and Islamic Jihad from easily rearming or building new networks of tunnels with diverted or smuggled cement.
以色列的诉求是安全；永远不再受到加沙的袭击；在埃及的帮助下，对进出加沙的货品实施有力的控制，从而防止哈马斯和伊斯兰圣战组织轻易地重新获得武器，或通过挪用或走私的水泥建造新的地道网络。
Yossi Kuperwasser, director general of the Israeli Ministry of Strategic Affairs, said that in Cairo, Israel wants “to come out with arrangements that assure us that this cease-fire will be different from previous ones, that it lasts a long time and Hamas won’t rearm itself.” He added, “Fortunately, now we have an Egypt that seems willing to contribute to this outcome,” with a president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who opposes Hamas.
以色列战略事务部总司长约西·库柏瓦瑟尔(Yossi Kuperwasser)在开罗说，以色列想要“通过一些安排来让我们确信，这次的停火将和之前的几次存在区别，它将长期有效，而哈马斯也不会重新获得武器。”他接着说，“幸运的是，埃及现在似乎愿意为达成这个目标贡献力量。”埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)反对哈马斯。
Israel has not succeeded in destroying Hamas, which was said to be a goal of the campaign, nor in dislodging it from control over Gaza. Hamas is expected to call the monthlong conflict a victory. Hamas killed a comparatively large number of Israeli soldiers — 64 — compared with the last major conflict, in 2008-9, when 10 soldiers were killed, four of them by friendly fire. The fighters of Hamas were disciplined and showed good tactical skills; its commanders largely survived the war; its rockets reached nearly all of Israel, forcing thousands into shelters, and even shut down Israel’s international airport near Tel Aviv for two days.
以色列未能成功摧毁哈马斯——这据说是本次行动的目标，也未能夺走它对加沙的控制。预计哈马斯将在这场持续了一个多月的冲突中宣布获胜。哈马斯杀害了相对较多的以军士兵，64人，相比之下，2008到2009年的上一次大规模冲突中，10名士兵死亡，其中四人死于己方火力。哈马斯的武装分子纪律严明，展现出了良好的战术能力；基本上没有指挥官在冲突中死亡；其火箭弹射中了以色列的几乎每一个角落，迫使数以千计的人躲进避难所，特拉维夫附近的以色列国际机场甚至有两天被迫关闭。
Hamas has been hurt, but it has survived to fight another day, and it has earned respect among many Palestinians and other Arabs. That has infuriated some on the Israeli right, who blame the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, for lack of gumption. Uzi Landau, for example, the tourism minister from the party Yisrael Beiteinu, told Israel Radio, “The operation ended with no achievement that ensures quiet.”
哈马斯受到了打击，但仍然坚持战斗，赢得了许多巴勒斯坦人和另外的一些阿拉伯人的尊重。这也激怒了一些以色列右翼，他们指责以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)缺乏魄力。例如，来自“以色列我们的家园”政党的旅游部长乌齐·朗多(Uzi Landau)就告诉以色列电台(Israel Radio)，“这次行动结束了，却没能获得确保和平的成就。”
Yaakov Perry, the minister of science from the centrist Yesh Atid party but also a former head of Shin Bet, Israel’s internal security service, said the army’s achievements were significant. “But I think we have to measure the current confrontation and the current suffering by the yardstick of the political achievements that Israel has to be very, very determined about,” he said.
来自中间派政党未来党(Yesh Atid)的科技部长雅科夫·佩里(Yaakov Peri)是以色列国内情报机构辛贝特(Shin Bet)的前局长。他认为，以军取得了实质性成就。他说，“我认为，我们必须以政治成就为标尺，衡量目前的冲突和损失，以色列必须非常非常坚决地认清这一点。”
Israel has also suffered a significant blow to its international standing, with the United Nations and Western nations, including the United States, Britain, France and Germany, lamenting the human cost of the war and criticizing some of Israel’s attacks on or near United Nations schools that were harboring thousands of displaced civilians. Tensions between Israel and its closest ally, the United States, are obvious.
以色列的国际声誉也遭受了沉重的打击，联合国以及包括美国、英国、法国和德国在内的西方国家，都谴责了战争带来的生命代价，批评以色列对联合国学校及其周边发动的袭击，这些学校里住着大量无家可归的平民。以色列与其最亲近盟友美国之间的紧张关系已经显露无疑。
The war will also have domestic implications for both sides.
这场战争也会为以色列国内及加沙内部带来影响。
Shlomo Avineri, a political scientist at Hebrew University, said Mr. Netanyahu had behaved “much more reasonably than many people expected.” Still, he said, “that’s not good enough, because there doesn’t seem to be a real exit strategy.”
希伯来大学(Hebrew University)的政治学者阿维内里·什洛莫(Shlomo Avineri)说，内塔尼亚胡的表现“比许多人预期的更加理性。”他说，不过，“这还不够好，因为似乎并没有一个真正的退出战略。”