JERUSALEM — Israeli and Palestinian officials agreed late Monday to extend a five-day cease-fire for Gaza that expired at midnight for 24 hours, reflecting the difficulty of reaching more durable agreements after two weeks of Egyptian-brokered talks but also an apparent lack of appetite on either side to resume the conflict. Three rockets fired from Gaza struck southern Israel on Tuesday, breaking the cease-fire, drawing Israeli retaliation and prompting Israel to recall its delegation from already fraught Egyptian-brokered talks in Cairo for an agreement to end the latest conflict.
耶路撒冷——周一夜间，以色列和巴勒斯坦的官员达成共识，将加沙地带为期五天的停火再延长24小时。这次停火原定于当天午夜结束。此举反映出，在埃及促成的谈判持续了两周后，双方仍然难以达成更长久的协议，双方似乎也没有兴趣恢复这场冲突。周二，三枚从加沙发射的火箭弹在以色列南部爆炸，以色列随即发动了反击，并从开罗撤回了和谈代表。 
Azzam al-Ahmed, the head of the Palestinian delegation in Cairo, said in a statement, “The negotiations were supposed to end today, but the maneuvers of the Israeli delegation have prevented until now any progress.”
在开罗的巴勒斯坦首席谈判代表阿扎姆·艾哈迈德(Azzam al-Ahmed)在声明中称，“谈判本应于今天结束，但以色列代表团的花招一直在阻碍谈判取得任何进展。”
He added, “We hope that the next 24 hours will lead to an agreement or the circle of violence will continue.”
他接着说，“我们希望，接下来的24小时将会诞生一份协议，否则，暴力的循环仍将持续。”
The Israeli government issued a statement around midnight saying the cease-fire would be extended “at Egypt’s request” to allow for negotiations to continue. Israeli officials have refused to comment on the content or progress of the talks.
以色列政府也在午夜前后发表了一份声明，表示将“在埃及的请求之下”延长停火，以允许谈判继续进行。以色列官员拒绝对谈判的内容或进展发表评论。
The main demands of Hamas, the militant group that controls Gaza, are a complete lifting of the economic blockade on the Palestinian coastal enclave, allowing the free movement of people and goods in and out, the creation of a seaport, and the reconstruction of a long-defunct airport. Israel wants full demilitarization, a process that would strip Hamas, whose name is an Arabic acronym for the Islamic Resistance Movement, and other groups, of their weapons and prevent rearmament.
哈马斯(Hamas)是控制加沙的激进组织，得名于“伊斯兰抵抗运动”(Islamic Resistance Movement)的阿拉伯语首字母缩写。它的主要诉求是，彻底取消对这块巴勒斯坦沿海飞地的经济封锁，允许人员和物资自由出入、兴建海港，并对停用多年的机场进行重建。以色列则希望彻底让加沙实现非军事化，这意味着哈马斯等组织将解除所有武装，也不得重整军备。
The conflicting demands reflected the sides’ broader agendas. Hamas wants to be able to show its people a clear achievement after a month of fighting that left more than 1,900 Palestinians dead and caused widespread devastation. Israel, in contrast, does not want Hamas to be rewarded in any way after a war in which 64 soldiers and three civilians were killed and Gaza militants launched more than 3,300 rockets and mortar rounds against Israel.
这些相互冲突的诉求反映了双方更宏观的议程。哈马斯希望向民众证明，在长达一个月的冲突后，自己取得了一些明显的成绩。这场冲突导致逾1900名巴勒斯坦人死亡，并造成了大范围的破坏。相比之下，以色列却不想让哈马斯在这场战争后有任何收获。加沙武装分子在冲突中向以色列发动了超过3300轮火箭弹和迫击炮袭击，导致64名士兵及三名平民死亡。
Israeli and Palestinian analysts were skeptical that the maximal demands of either side would be met in the foreseeable future.
以色列和巴勒斯坦的分析人士均认为，在可预见的未来，双方的最大诉求都不会得到满足。
“Concessions come with a high political cost for both sides,” said Ghassan Khatib, vice president of Birzeit University in the West Bank and a former spokesman for the Palestinian Authority government, “but it is equally costly for either side to resume that level of fierce confrontation.”
“让步会为双方带来很高的政治成本，”巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)政府的前发言人、西岸比尔泽特大学(Birzeit University)的副校长加桑·哈提卜(Ghassan Khatib)说。“但如果恢复之前那种水平的激烈冲突，双方也会付出同样高昂的代价。”
Mr. Khatib cast doubt on the prospects of reaching more ambitious, longer-term agreements, saying, “The positions are not reconcilable.” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel “is not in a position to give concessions to Hamas that appear to give it political gains,” he said, “and it will be very embarrassing for Hamas to be part of agreements that don’t end the closure after all the sacrifice.”
哈提卜对未来达成更有价值的长期协议的前景表示怀疑。他说，“双方的立场是不可调和的。”以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)“身不由己，不能做出看上去会让哈马斯在政治上获益的让步，”他说。“另一边，在付出种种代价之后，如果达成的协议不能结束对加沙的封锁，哈马斯也会非常难堪。”
Shaul Shay, a former deputy head of Israel’s National Security Council, said the longer-term demands “need negotiation and, in my opinion, outside involvement.” He added, “They are not something to achieve in hours or days.”
曾任以色列国家安全委员会(National Security Council)副主席的沙乌尔·谢伊(Shaul Shay)表示，长期诉求“需要谈判，而且我认为，需要外部力量的介入。”他还表示，“这不是几小时或几天就能完成的事情。”
On the other hand, he said, “There are tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, in Gaza who need help, and their timetable is not in sync with that of long-term agreements. The humanitarian clock is ticking faster than the political-diplomatic one. Israel is aware of that.”
他说，另一方面，“在加沙地带，就算没有数十万人，也有数万人需要帮助，而他们的时间表与长期协议的节奏并不一致。与政治外交相比，人道主义的需求更具紧迫性。以色列也认识到了这一点。”
Robert Serry, the United Nations special coordinator for the Middle East peace process, told the Security Council on Monday that the destruction in Gaza was so severe that large-scale reconstruction, with the involvement of the Palestinian Authority and the private sector, was needed.
周一，联合国中东和平进程特别协调员罗伯特·塞里(Robert Serry)告诉安理会，加沙地带遭到严重破坏，需要巴勒斯坦民族权力机构和私营部门共同参与，进行大规模重建。
“The basic equation must consist of ending the blockade on Gaza, and addressing Israel’s legitimate security concerns,” he said, adding that the United Nations had a way to monitor that construction materials entering Gaza for United Nations projects be exclusively for civilian use, and was ready to explore how to expand that system. Israel has accused Hamas of diverting cement meant for civilian projects to build an extensive network of tunnels, including several running into Israeli territory that were used for attacks on soldiers during the recent conflict. 
他说，“必须在解除对加沙地带的封锁的同时，着手解决以色列正当的安全担忧。”他还表示，联合国有办法监督进入加沙地带的联合国民用工程的建筑材料，并已准备好探索如何扩展这一系统。以色列指责哈马斯挪用民用工程的水泥来建造广泛的地道网，其中几条通向以色列领土的地道被哈马斯用来在最近的冲突中袭击以军士兵。
“Right now, Gaza urgently needs houses, hospitals and schools — not rockets, tunnels and conflict,” Mr. Serry added.
塞里还表示，“目前，加沙急需房屋、医院和学校——不是火箭弹、地道和冲突。”
Hours before the announcement in Cairo of the 24-hour extension of the cease-fire, Mr. Netanyahu warned Hamas that Israel was “ready for any scenario.”
双方在开罗宣布将停火延长24小时之前的几个钟头里，内塔尼亚胡曾警告哈马斯，以色列已经“准备好应对各种局面”。
Illustrating the abiding security jitters in southern Israel, the authorities suspended train service to Sderot, the town nearest the Gaza border, on Monday until further notice because of the continued threat from antitank missiles.
周一，鉴于反坦克导弹的持续威胁，以色列当局暂停了通往距离加沙地带最近的城镇斯德洛特的火车，直到另行通知为止。这突显了以色列南部持久的安全隐忧。
In the West Bank, Israeli forces demolished the Hebron homes of two Palestinians suspected of being behind the kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June, and sealed the home of a third, also in Hebron. Only one of the suspects is in custody. Court documents stated that he orchestrated the attack and bought weapons for it with money from Hamas operatives.
在约旦河西岸，以色列部队在希伯伦摧毁了两名巴勒斯坦人的房屋，还封锁了另外一人的住所。头两人涉嫌在今年6月组织绑架并杀害了三名以色列少年。目前只有一名嫌疑人被扣押。法院文件显示，此人策划了袭击行动，并利用哈马斯特工提供的资金购买实施袭击的武器。
An Israeli clampdown in the West Bank during the search for the teenagers prompted increased rocket fire from Gaza and an escalation that led to the latest conflict. 
以色列在约旦河西岸搜寻三名少年期间开展了镇压行动，促使更多的火箭弹从加沙射来，局势不断升级，最终演变为最近这轮冲突。
The rockets landed in open ground near the cities of Beersheba and Netivot, causing no damage or injury, according to the Israeli military, which added in a statement that it was “targeting terror sites across the Gaza Strip” in response.
据以色列军方消息，周二从加沙发射的火箭弹落入了以色列南部城市贝尔谢巴(Beersheba)和内提沃特 (Netivot)附近的开阔地，没有造成人员伤亡。以军在声明中还提到，其正在锁定加沙地带的恐怖据点为打击目标，以示回击。
Israel has repeatedly said it would not negotiate under fire. As a five-day cease-fire expired at midnight on Monday, Israeli and Palestinian officials had announced a 24-hour extension to allow the negotiations to continue.
以色列方面已经多次重申不会在交战期间进行谈判。随着周一午夜五天停火协议的失效，以色列和巴勒斯坦官员已宣布24小时延长停火协议，以便和谈能够继续进行。