JERUSALEM — A new 72-hour cease-fire in the Gaza fighting, which Israeli and Palestinian negotiators had agreed to on Sunday, began at one minute after midnight Monday.
耶路撒冷——以色列与巴勒斯坦谈判人员周日商定，在加沙地带停止交火72小时。商定的停火从周一00:01开始生效。
The negotiators had accepted Egypt’s call for the three-day truce and for a resumption of Egyptian-mediated negotiations toward a more durable solution for Gaza.
谈判人员接受了埃及休战三天的呼吁，并同意重新开始由埃及斡旋的谈判，以求为加沙局势寻求一个更长久的解决方案。
The Israeli government said in a statement that it had accepted the Egyptian cease-fire request. On Sunday evening, Azzam al-Ahmed, the lead Palestinian negotiator in Cairo, said the delegation, which includes Hamas, had notified the Egyptians “that we agreed on the cease-fire based on the Egyptian statement.”
以色列政府在声明中表示已经接受埃及的停火请求。周日晚间，在开罗的巴勒斯坦首席谈判代表阿扎姆·艾哈迈德(Azzam al-Ahmed)表示，包括哈马斯(Hamas)在内的代表团已经通知埃及，“我们同意以埃及的声明为基础实行停火。”
The last cease-fire expired on Friday, and Hamas, the Islamic group that dominates Gaza, fired rockets into Israel, prompting Israel to resume its airstrikes.
上次的停火协议已于周五到期，控制加沙的伊斯兰团体哈马斯向以色列境内发射了火箭弹，促使以色列也继续发动空袭。
The Egyptian Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the new, temporary cease-fire was intended to facilitate the flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza and the repair of essential infrastructure, and to allow a window for the resumption of “indirect, immediate and continuous negotiations” for a “complete and permanent cease-fire.”
埃及外交部在一份声明中称，这项新的临时停火协议旨在为向加沙输送人道主义救援物资、修复关键的基础设施提供便利，为恢复“间接、迅速和持续的谈判”提供一个窗口，以期达成“全面而永久的停火”。
The Palestinian negotiators have remained in Cairo. An Israeli official said the Israeli delegation, which left Cairo on Friday morning, would return on Monday if the cease-fire held during the night. Contacts between Israel and Egypt have continued by telephone in the meantime.
巴勒斯坦谈判代表目前还在开罗。一名以色列官员说，以色列代表团已于周五早上离开开罗，如果停火能够在夜间持续，他们周一就会回到开罗。同时，以色列和埃及还在通过电话保持联系。
In the hours before midnight, Palestinian militants and the Israeli military continued to exchange blows, but on a much smaller scale than the fierce fighting of the past month, which claimed more than 1,900 Palestinian lives — a majority of them probably civilians — and killed 67, mostly soldiers, on the Israeli side.
在午夜之前的几小时，巴勒斯坦武装人员和以色列军方仍在交火，但规模比过去几个月的激烈战斗小了很多。冲突造成超过1900名巴勒斯坦人丧生——其中大多可能是平民——还导致67名以色列人死亡，其中大多是士兵。
The Israeli military said it struck more than 30 targets in Gaza on Sunday, including what it described as 11 “terror squads,” some of whom were preparing to fire rockets.
以色列军方称，周日他们袭击了加沙的30多个目标，其中包括它所说的11个“恐怖小组”，他们当中有些人正在准备发射火箭弹。
At least seven Palestinians were killed on Sunday, including four who were killed in two Israeli airstrikes in southern and northern Gaza Strip on Sunday evening. Three of those were killed in an airstrike aimed at a motorcycle in Khan Younis and one was killed in a strike that hit agricultural land near Jabaliya, according to the Health Ministry in Gaza.
周日，至少有7名巴勒斯坦人被杀，其中包括周日晚上，以色列在加沙地带南部和北部发动的两次空袭中丧生的4人。加沙卫生部(Health Ministry)称，其中3人是在汗尤尼斯一辆摩托车遭遇空袭时丧生的，另一人则死于贾巴利亚附近农田的一次袭击。
Nearly 30 rockets were fired at southern Israel on Sunday, the military added. Several were intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome antimissile defense system, and most fell in open ground, causing no injuries.
以色列军方还表示，周日有将近30枚火箭弹射向以色列南部。其中数枚被以色列的“铁穹”(Iron Dome)反导弹防御系统拦截，大多数则落入空旷地，没有造成人员伤亡。
Earlier on Sunday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had reiterated Israel’s position that it would “not negotiate under fire.”
周日早些时候，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)重申了以色列的立场，即绝不“在战火中进行谈判”。
In remarks broadcast at the start of Israel’s weekly cabinet meeting, which Mr. Netanyahu held at the military’s headquarters in Tel Aviv, he said the military operation was continuing. “At no stage did we declare its conclusion,” he said.
内塔尼亚胡在特拉维夫的军队总部举行了每周内阁会议。他在会议开始时播放的讲话说，军事行动仍在继续。“我们从未宣布行动结束，”他说。
“The operation will continue until its goal is met: the restoration of quiet for a long period,” he added.
“行动将继续，直到我们实现目标：恢复长期安宁，”他接着说。
Israel said its military campaign was intended to quell rocket fire from Gaza and destroy Hamas’s network of tunnels, several of which run under the border and have been used for attacks in Israeli territory. Israel has demanded internationally backed measures to prevent Hamas from rearming as part of any longer cease-fire. Hamas is demanding, among other things, a complete lifting of the blockade of Gaza and the free movement of people and goods through its border crossings with Israel and Egypt, along with the establishment of a seaport and an airport.
以色列称其军事行动旨在平息来自加沙的火箭弹袭击，并摧毁哈马斯的地道网络。哈马斯的几条地道从双方边境下方经过，被用来在以色列境内发动攻击。以色列要求在任何长期的停火协议中，都应该以受到国际社会支持的措施，防止哈马斯重新武装起来。哈马斯的诉求则包括，彻底解除对加沙的封锁，允许人员和商品在与以色列和埃及之间的边境口岸自由流动，以及建立一个海港和一座机场。
Members of the Palestinian delegation in Cairo expressed frustration earlier Sunday at what they said was an emphasis by the Egyptian mediators and the Israelis on winning a cease-fire at the expense of longer-terms solutions that would end Gaza’s isolation.
周日早些时候，在开罗的巴勒斯坦代表团成员表示失望，称埃及调停人员和以色列谈判代表强调的都是，即使无法取得能够结束加沙孤立状态的长期解决方案，也要实现停火。
Qais Abdel-Karim, of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, one of the factions attending the talks, said it would be a “farce” for the delegation to return with an armistice and little else, given the high civilian death toll and the devastation in Gaza.
解放巴勒斯坦民主阵线(Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine)是参与谈判的派别之一。来自该组织的卡伊斯·阿卜杜勒-卡里姆(Qais Abdel-Karim)表示，考虑到死伤平民人数众多，以及加沙遭到的破坏，代表团若只是带回休战协议，别无他物，便是“一场闹剧”。
“People have been suffering and tolerating all that with the hope that this will lead to the relaxation of lifting of the blockade,” he said.
“人们受苦受难，忍受了一切，是因为希望这将带来封锁的放松和解除，”他说。