Israeli and Palestinian negotiators will resume peace talks here Monday night, the State Department said in a statement Sunday afternoon. It will be the first time that the two have held direct talks since 2010.
美国国务院(State Department)周日下午发表声明称，以色列及巴勒斯坦的谈判代表将于周一晚间在华盛顿重启和平谈判。这将是双方自2010年以来的首次直接谈判。
Clearing the last obstacle to resuming peace talks, the Israeli Cabinet voted Sunday to approve the release of 104 Palestinian prisoners, an unpopular move with many Israelis.
周日，以色列内阁(Cabinet)投票支持释放104名巴勒斯坦囚犯，消除了重启和谈的最后障碍。然而，很多以色列人并不支持这一举措。
Secretary of State John Kerry then spoke with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to formally invite them to send their negotiating teams to Washington.
此后，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)与巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)及以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)通话，正式邀请他们派各自的谈判小组来到华盛顿。
“Both leaders have demonstrated a willingness to make difficult decisions that have been instrumental in getting to this point,” Kerry said in a statement. “We are grateful for their leadership.”
“两位领导人都显示了做出艰难决定的意愿，这一点对重启和谈至关重要，”克里在一份声明中表示。“我们非常感激他们的领袖风范。”
The goal of the negotiations will be to establish a Palestinian state alongside Israel with agreed-upon borders and security arrangements.
谈判目标是就边界划分及安全措施达成一致，以便在以色列旁边建立巴勒斯坦国。
Officials said that talks are initially expected to focus on procedural issues, like the location, schedule and format of negotiating sessions, before moving on to tackle the core issues of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
官员们表示，谈判重心最初会是地点、时间表、谈判会议的方式等程序性问题，之后再处理巴以冲突的核心问题。
The Israeli side will be represented by Israel's justice minister, Tzipi Livni, and Isaac Molho, Netanyahu's special envoy. On the Palestinian side will be Saeb Erekat, the chief negotiator, and Mohammed Shtayyeh, a close adviser to Abbas.
以色列方面将以司法部长齐皮·利夫尼(Tzipi Livni)及内塔尼亚胡的特使伊萨克·莫尔霍(Isaac Molho)为代表。而巴勒斯坦则将派出首席谈判代表赛义卜·埃雷卡特(Saeb Erekat)和阿巴斯的亲密顾问穆罕默德·什塔伊耶赫(Mohammed Shtayyeh)。
After 20 years of an on-again-off-again peace process, agreement on the thorniest issues, like the future of Jewish settlements in the West Bank and the status of Jerusalem, have eluded even the most seasoned negotiators.
20年来，巴以和谈一直断断续续，即便是经验最丰富的谈判代表，也未能就约旦河西岸犹太人定居点前途和耶路撒冷地位等最为棘手的问题达成协议。
Netanyahu worked over the weekend to convince Israelis that a resumption of the peace process was a vital Israeli interest and that a prisoner release was the least damaging concession he could make.
内塔尼亚胡于周末进行了一系列工作，以便说服以色列人，恢复和谈对于以色列的利益而言至关重要，他还表示，释放囚犯是他能做出的伤害性最小的让步。
After six hours of deliberations on Sunday, 13 ministers voted in favor of the release, seven opposed it and two abstained.
周日，经过六个小时的商议，共有13名部长投票赞成释放人质，七人反对，两人弃权。
“This moment is not easy for me. It is not easy for the ministers. It is not easy especially for the families, the bereaved families, whose heart I understand,” Netanyahu said in televised remarks at the meeting. “But there are moments in which tough decisions must be made for the good of the country, and this is one of those moments.”
“这个时刻对我来说并不容易，对于那些部长来说也不容易。对于那些家庭，那些失去亲人的家庭来说，尤为不易。我明白他们的心情，”内塔尼亚胡在会议上发表电视讲话说。“但是有些时候，为了国家的利益，我们必须做出一些艰难的决定，现在就是这样的一个时刻。”
Erekat described the decision in a statement as “an overdue step toward the implementation of the Sharm el-Sheik agreement of 1999.”
在声明中，埃雷卡特称这项决定是“向履行1999年沙姆沙伊赫协议迈出的迟来一步”。
He added, “We welcome this decision, 14 years later.” 
他还说，“我们对这个决定表示欢迎，尽管已经过了14年。”