GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — After weeks of escalating conflict in Gaza, both sides reported death tolls that made clear Sunday was the deadliest day so far in the war. The Palestinian Health Ministry reported that 87 Palestinians had died, and the Israeli military said 13 soldiers were dead.
加沙地带加沙城——周日，巴以双方通报的死亡人数，让这一天确切无疑地成为此次战事中迄今死伤最惨重的一天。此前双方之间的冲突已经持续了数周，并日趋激烈。据巴勒斯坦卫生部(Palestinian Health Ministry)报告，有87名巴勒斯坦人死亡，以色列军方则表示，以方有13名士兵死亡。
The fighting signaled that what had begun as a limited ground invasion by Israel on Thursday night had moved into a more extensive and costlier phase for both sides.
这场战斗表明，以色列于上周四开启的有限的地面入侵行动，已经进入另一个阶段，对双方而言这是一个范围更广、代价更大的阶段。
Most of the Palestinians were killed in an eastern neighborhood of Gaza City called Shejaiya, just outside the downtown of the densely populated city. For the Palestinians it was the deadliest episode since Israel began its offensive on July 8 with airstrikes it says were aimed at curbing rocket fire against its cities, then followed with the ground offensive it said would destroy tunnels into Israel. Since July 9, 417 people have been killed in Gaza, among them more than 100 children, and more than 3,000 have been injured.
大部分巴勒斯坦人是在加沙城东部一个名叫西杰亚(Shejaiya)的社区遇难的，这个街区就位于人口稠密的加沙城中心的边上。对巴勒斯坦人而言，这是以色列7月8日发动空袭攻势后死伤最惨重的一幕，以方称这一轮空袭旨在遏制巴方对以色列城市发动的火箭弹攻击，以方随后发动了地面攻势，称此举将摧毁通往以色列的地下通道。自7月9日以来，加沙地带已有417人遇难，其中包括100多名儿童，另有3000多人受伤。
Sunday’s death toll for the Israeli soldiers surpassed the number of soldiers killed in the past two Gaza offensives. In the 2008-9 war, 10 died, four of them from “friendly fire.” Late in the day, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas, announced it had captured an Israeli soldier, but that was not immediately confirmed by Israel.
周日死亡的以色列士兵人数，超过了过去以方两次袭击加沙地带时死亡的士兵人数。在2008年至2009年的战争中，有10名以色列士兵死亡，其中有4人死于“己方误伤”。当日晚些时候，哈马斯(Hamas)下属武装团体卡桑旅(Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades)宣布，他们俘虏了一名以色列士兵，不过以方并未马上确认此事。
President Obama told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday that he had “serious concern” about the growing number of casualties on both sides in Gaza. In his second phone call with the Israeli leader in three days, Mr. Obama also told Mr. Netanyahu that Secretary of State John Kerry will travel soon to Cairo to press for an immediate cease-fire, a White House statement said.
周日，奥巴马总统对以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)表示，他对巴以双方在加沙不断增长的伤亡人数“深感关切”。白宫的一则声明称，奥巴马还在三天之内与内塔尼亚胡进行的第二次通话中表示，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)即将于不久后赶赴开罗，敦促各方立即停火。
The statement also emphasized the need to protect civilians in both Gaza and Israel.
声明还强调说，需要保护加沙地带及以色列的平民。
In a sign of increasing international alarm, the United Nations Security Council scheduled an emergency session for Sunday night after a request from the Palestinians.
联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)应巴勒斯坦的请求，计划在周日晚间召开紧急会议。这一迹象表明，国际社会对巴以局势的担忧加剧了。
“This situation is intolerable,” President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority said in a televised speech from Doha, Qatar. He called the Israeli attacks “crimes against humanity.”
巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)在卡塔尔多哈发表的电视讲话中称，“这种局面是不可容忍的。”他说以色列的袭击犯下了“反人类罪”。
The Palestinians circulated a draft resolution that “condemns all violence and hostilities directed against civilians and all acts of terrorism.” But there was no indication the Council would act on the draft resolution Sunday or that it would take any action.
巴勒斯坦人向各方提交了一份决议草案，提议“对所有以平民为目标的暴力活动和战争行动，以及所有形式的恐怖主义行为进行谴责。”不过，没有迹象表明安理会周日会遵照草案采取行动，也没有迹象表明安理会将采取任何行动。
Beginning at dawn on Sunday in Shejaiya, men, women and children streamed out of the neighborhood, some barefoot, past bodies of people killed by shelling. Israeli shells crashed all around, rockets fired by militants soared overhead, and occasional small-arms fire whizzed past. Black smoke rose above the city. Asked where they were going, one woman said, “God knows.”
周日在西杰亚社区，刚刚天亮，当地居民部分男女老幼，就鱼贯走出了这个社区。他们走过死于炮击的人的尸体，有些人还赤着脚。以色列的炮弹遍地开花，而武装分子发射的火箭弹飞入高空，偶尔还会传来小型武器的子弹嗖嗖掠过的声音。城市上空升腾起了黑烟。当被问到他们要去哪里时，一名女性说，“天晓得。”
The Gaza Health Ministry reported that more than 300 people were injured in that neighborhood alone on Sunday.
加沙卫生部(Gaza Health Ministry)通报称，仅周日一天，西杰亚区就有300多人受伤。
The Palestinian government, which is led by Mr. Abbas and the Western-supported Palestinian Authority and by Hamas, the Islamist militant group that controls Gaza, in a statement described the killing of Palestinians in Shejaiya as “a heinous massacre” and a war crime.
巴勒斯坦政府在一则声明中称，以方杀害西杰亚区的巴勒斯坦人的行为是“一场残暴的屠杀”，是战争犯罪。领导巴勒斯坦政府的是受西方支持的巴勒斯坦权力机构及其主席阿巴斯，以及控制加沙地带的伊斯兰派武装组织哈马斯。
It was not immediately clear whether the growing death toll and increasing pressure on both sides would help or hinder international efforts to forge a cease-fire.
随着死亡人数不断增加，双方承受的压力也越来越大。但目前尚不清楚，这会帮助还是阻碍国际社会促成停火协议的努力。
Mr. Abbas was expected to meet on Sunday in Doha, Qatar, with the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, and Qatari officials to discuss an Egyptian proposal for ending the fighting, according to Palestinian officials. Khaled Meshal, the political leader of Hamas, is also based in Qatar.
据巴勒斯坦官员透露，阿巴斯将于周日在卡塔尔多哈与联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)及卡塔尔官员举行会晤，讨论埃及提出的结束斗争的提议。哈马斯的政治领导人哈立德·马沙尔(Khaled Meshal)也常驻卡塔尔。
Before the meeting, Mr. Ban condemned the bombardment of Shejaiya, calling it an “atrocious action.” He also demanded an immediate halt to the Israeli offensive as well as rocket fire from Gaza. “All sides need to be assured that international humanitarian law counts — and that there will be accountability and justice for crimes committed by any party,” he said.
会晤之前，潘基文对发生在西杰亚区的轰炸事件表示谴责，称这是“残暴行为”。他还要求以色列立即停止攻击，加沙方面停止发射火箭弹。他说，“各方需要确保国际人道主义法律发挥作用，任何一方犯下罪行，都要承担责任，受到制裁。”
The Israeli military said it had agreed to a request from the International Committee of the Red Cross for a two-hour humanitarian cease-fire on Sunday — from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. — to allow an emergency crew in to evacuate the dead and wounded from Shejaiya and to allow other residents to leave, but some fighting appeared to have resumed even before the first hour was up.
以色列军方表示，他们同意了红十字国际委员会(International Committee of the Red Cross)提出的停火两小时的要求，在周日下午1点30到3点30停火，允许急救人员将死者和伤者运离西杰亚，也让其他居民离开，但停火还不到一个小时，有些人就继续开始作战了。
Soon after 3.30 p.m., the Israeli military said it would hold its fire in Shejaiya for an additional hour, though it accused Hamas of continuing to shoot. A short while later, it said that acceding to a Red Cross request, it was extending the cease-fire until 5:30.
下午3点30之后不久，以色列军方表示，他们会将停火时间延长一小时，但以军指责哈马斯仍在继续进行攻击。不久之后，以军称他们同意红十字会的要求，将停火时间延长至5点30。
At 5 p.m., barrages of rockets were fired from Gaza toward the southern Israeli cities of Beersheba, Ashkelon and Netivot. Some were intercepted by Israel’s Iron Dome antimissile defense system, and others landed harmlessly in open ground.
下午5点的时候，加沙地带向以色列南部城市贝尔谢巴、亚实基伦、内提沃特发射了大量火箭弹。其中一些火箭弹遭到以色列“铁穹”(Iron Dome)反导弹防御系统的拦截，其他的则落入空阔地带，没有造成伤害。
Lt. Col. Peter Lerner, an Israeli military spokesman, said ground forces had moved on Shejaiya overnight after area residents had been warned to leave for the past three days.
以色列军方发言人彼得·勒纳中校(Lt. Col. Peter Lerner)表示，当地居民得到了过去三天中不要留在该地的警告，之后地面部队才连夜向西杰亚区进发。
“The mission,” he said, “is targeting Hamas’s terrorist infrastructure, including significant rocket-launching capabilities and an extensive tunnel network designed to aid infiltration into Israel for attacks on soldiers and civilians. Other tunnels, he said, lead to concealed rocket launchers or weapons stores.
他说，“任务的目标是哈马斯的恐怖主义基础设施，比如强大的火箭发射装置，以及广泛的地道网络。他们通过地道进入以色列，攻击士兵和平民。”他表示，其他地道则通往藏匿的火箭发射器或武器库。