ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — In an unusually critical statement, a senior Pakistani official said that Pakistan remained opposed to India’s inclusion in the Nuclear Suppliers Group and feared that the country’s growing nuclear cooperation with the United States could harm deterrence efforts in South Asia.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡—巴基斯坦高级官员在一份异常激烈的批评性声明中表示，巴基斯坦依然反对印度加入核供应国集团（Nuclear Suppliers Group，简称NSG），并且担心印度与美国日益加强的核合作可能会降低巴基斯坦在南亚地区的核威慑力度。
The statement by Sartaj Aziz, the Pakistani national security adviser, came after President Obama wound up his visit to India, during which the United States and India announced an array of trade and strategic agreements.
这份声明是由巴基斯坦国家安全顾问萨尔塔杰·阿齐兹(Sartaj Aziz)在美国总统奥巴马(Obama)结束了对印度的国事访问之后发布的。奥巴马访印期间，美印两国宣布达成了一系列贸易和战略协议。
Pakistan and India have had an antagonistic relationship since the end of British rule and their partition in 1947. In recent years, Pakistan has viewed growing United States-India cooperation with apprehension.
自从1947年英国结束对印度的统治、印巴分立之后，巴基斯坦和印度一直处于对立状态。在近些年，美印合作的日益加强让巴基斯坦忧心忡忡。
In addition to Mr. Aziz’s criticism, the Pakistani Army chief, Gen. Raheel Sharif, went to China on Sunday for a two-day visit with political and military leaders. The trip directly coincided with Mr. Obama’s visit in India, and Pakistani news organizations covered the parallel trips prominently — particularly statements by Chinese officials that “Pakistan’s concern is China’s concern.”
在阿齐兹发表批评性言论之外，巴基斯坦陆军参谋长拉希勒·谢里夫上将(Gen. Raheel Sharif)于周日开启了为期两天的中国之旅，会见了中国的政治和军事领导人。此行恰值奥巴马访印期间，巴基斯坦的新闻机构以显著的篇幅报道了这两场并行的国事访问——尤其是中国官员的说法：巴基斯坦的担忧也是中国的担忧。
“Pakistan is opposed to yet another country-specific exemption from N.S.G. rules to grant membership to India, as this would further compound the already fragile strategic stability environment in South Asia,” Mr. Aziz said Tuesday in the statement. The Nuclear Suppliers Group is a 48-nation body established 40 years ago to ensure that civilian trade in nuclear materials is not diverted for military purposes.
“巴基斯坦依然反对再次给出针对单个国家的NSG规则豁免，给予印度NSG成员国资格，因为这会让南亚地区脆弱的战略安全环境进一步恶化。”阿齐兹在周二的声明中表示。NSG是一个由48个国家组成的组织，在40年前成立，其作用是保证核材料的民间交易不会被用来达成军事目的。
In addition to opposing India’s membership in the group, Mr. Aziz also criticized American support for granting a seat to India on the United Nations Security Council.
除了反对印度加入NSG，阿齐兹还批评了美国支持印度在联合国安理会获得一席之地的做法。