ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — A political standoff on the streets of Pakistan’s capital escalated into a national crisis on Sunday after clashes between the police and protesters attempting to storm the prime minister’s house left three people dead and at least 500 wounded, raising the specter of a government collapse.
周一，巴基斯坦军队接管了国家电视台的治安。当天早上，约1000名示威者攻入电视台大楼，导致电视台暂时中断广播。手持棍棒的反政府示威者洗劫了巴基斯坦电视台，砸坏了停车场的汽车，切断了演播室的信号传输电缆。电视台负责人称，至少丢了20台摄影机。
The violence, in which the police fired rubber bullets and tear gas at protesters armed with sticks, provoked an intervention from the military, which has a long history of seizing power during times of chaos. On Sunday evening, the army chief held an emergency meeting with the military high command, moving it up by a day as the situation in the capital, Islamabad, deteriorated rapidly.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡——巴基斯坦首都街头的一场政治对峙在周日上升为国家危机，警察与企图冲击总理官邸的示威者发生冲突，导致三人死亡，至少500人受伤，政府崩溃可能性加剧。
In a statement afterward, the military stressed its commitment to democracy and urged rival politicians to resolve their differences “without wasting any time.” But it also stated that “further use of force will only aggravate the problem,” an assertion that put further pressure on Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by limiting his options to halt the chaos.
警察对手持棍棒的示威者使用了橡皮子弹和催泪瓦斯，暴力事件导致在混乱时期有夺权历史的军方出手干预。周日晚间，陆军总长和高层将领召开紧急会议，鉴于首都伊斯兰堡的情况恶化迅速，他们决定提前一天开会。
Thousands of protesters, led by the opposition politician Imran Khan and the cleric Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri, have been camped out on the streets of Islamabad for more than two weeks in a bid to force Mr. Sharif to resign.
此后发布的一份声明中，军方强调了它对民主的承诺，敦促冲突双方的政治人士化解分歧，“一秒钟也不要耽搁”。但同时也表示“进一步使用武力只会加重问题”，这样一来就减少了总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)遏制混乱的可行手段，从而加大了对他的压力。
Mr. Sharif, who came to power in a landslide election victory just 15 months ago, has said those demands are “unacceptable” and “unconstitutional.” But he has failed to find a negotiated end to the deadlock, which has paralyzed the capital and left his government badly weakened.
在反对派政治人士伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)和神职人员穆罕默德·塔希尔·卡德里(Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri)的率领下，数千示威者在伊斯兰堡街头安营扎寨已两周有余，他们希望通过这种方式逼迫谢里夫辞职。
In a sign of the seriousness of the standoff, Mr. Sharif requested on Thursday that the army chief, Gen. Raheel Sharif, help defuse the tensions, and the two men, who are not related, agreed to push for negotiations to resume. But those talks collapsed over the weekend, and the protesters tried to leverage their position by seizing control of symbolically important ground. On Saturday evening, Mr. Khan and Mr. Qadri ordered their protesters to push through police lines in the capital’s “red zone” — a high-security area that includes the Parliament, the Supreme Court and many diplomatic missions.
仅15个月前，谢里夫在选举中以一场压倒性的胜利登上总理宝座，他说那些要求是“不能接受”和“违宪”的。但是他没能通过谈判途径打破僵局，首都已经因此陷入瘫痪，他的政府被大幅削弱。
Mr. Khan has said he started the demonstrations to protest what he says was rigging in last year’s election. But the chaotic scenes in Islamabad over the weekend led to worries that he might derail Pakistan’s fragile democracy by creating the opportunity for a military intervention.
谢里夫在周四要求陆军参谋长拉希勒·谢里夫上将(Gen. Raheel Sharif)协助平息紧张局势，显示出这场僵局的严重程度，两人（并无亲缘关系）一致认为应该设法重启谈判。但是对话于上周末破裂，抗议人士试图通过控制一些具有重要象征意义的区域，作为谈判的资本。周六晚间，汗和卡德里命令示威者冲破警方封锁，进入首都的“红色地带”——即包括国会、最高法院和许多外交代表机构在内的一些高度警戒地区。
Those worries came even from his own ranks. In a news conference on Sunday, Javed Hashmi, the president of Mr. Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, lashed out at Mr. Khan’s decision to escalate the protest on Saturday night, and effectively announced that he was quitting the party. Mr. Hashmi said Mr. Khan had overruled the senior party leaders who opposed his decision, and suggested that Mr. Khan had been influenced by a “signal” from outside, an apparent reference to military intervention.
伊姆兰·汗说，他的示威行动是为了抗议去年的选举，他认为那场选举存在舞弊行为。但是伊斯兰堡上周末的混乱局面让人们担心，他这样做可能给军方干预提供了机会，从而破坏巴基斯坦本就脆弱的民主制度。
“Imran Khan will be responsible if martial law is imposed in the country,” Mr. Hashmi told reporters.
甚至他自己的阵营内都出现了这种担忧的声音。在周日的一场新闻发布会上，汗所在的巴基斯坦正义运动党(Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf)主席贾维德·海什米(Javed Hashmi)对汗决定在周六升级抗议活动的做法进行了猛烈抨击，并基本上宣布了自己退党的决定。海什米说汗否决了党内高层的反对意见，暗示汗的决定是出于外界“授意”，而他指的似乎是来自军方的干预。
Later on Sunday, Mr. Khan said in a speech that he was “upset” by Mr. Hashmi’s statements. “From today our paths are separate,” he said.
“如果国家开始实施戒严，伊姆兰·汗是要负责的，”海什米对记者说。
Prime Minister Sharif reached Islamabad from Lahore on Sunday for talks with cabinet ministers. A senior official in the government, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about its plans, said the government did not intend to arrest Mr. Khan or Mr. Qadri but was planning to “push them out of the red zone.”
周日晚些时候，汗在一次讲话中表示，海什米的声明令他感到“难过”。他说，“从今往后我们要各走各的路了。”
The military has seized power in Pakistan four times since 1958, usually at moments of upheaval in the political system. That history is particularly significant for Mr. Sharif, whose last stint in power ended in 1999 with a military coup led by Gen. Pervez Musharraf.
谢里夫总理在周日离开拉合尔前往伊斯兰堡与内阁会面。一名政府高级官员说，政府不打算逮捕汗或卡德里，但是正计划“把他们逐出红色地带”，这位官员因无权公开谈论该计划，要求在本文中匿名。
By Sunday evening, Constitution Avenue, the main road linking Parliament to other major government buildings in central Islamabad, resembled a war zone. The police fired sporadic volleys of tear gas at groups of protesters, who in turn attacked them with bricks pulled from the sidewalk. Demonstrators set fire to trees and to a shipping container that blocked a road leading to an office housing several key ministries.
自1958年以来，巴基斯坦军方曾四次篡权，一般都是在政治系统出现动荡的时候。谢里夫对这段历史是记忆犹新的，他上一次的总理任期，终止于1999年的一次由佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫上将(Pervez Musharraf)领导的军事政变。