Less than a week after Pakistan’s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, returned home from a trip to Washington, an American drone killed Hakimullah Mehsud, a man who had terrorized all Pakistan as the leader of the country’s most dangerous militant group, the Pakistani Taliban.
巴基斯坦总统纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)从华盛顿回国不到一周，一架美国无人机就击毙了哈基穆拉·马哈苏德(Hakimullah Mehsud)。作为巴基斯坦最危险的武装组织，塔利班巴基斯坦分支的首领，马哈苏德曾经威震该国。
With any other two countries, such a sequence of events might have been followed by an official nod to the cooperation involved — or at the very least, meaningful silence. But with the United States and Pakistan it’s always more complicated. Hours after the drone strike, Pakistan’s interior minister accused the United States of the “murder of peace efforts.” He later berated “enemies dressed as friends.”
如果是另外两个国家，这样两件事情接连发生之后，官方肯定会表示认可，承认两国之间存在合作——最起码也是意味深长的沉默。但在美国和巴基斯坦之间，事情总是要更复杂一些。无人机袭击发生几个小时之后，巴基斯坦内政部长指责美国“破坏了和平的努力”。之后，他更是痛斥“伪装成朋友的敌人”。
It’s an old script. Regardless of whatever cooperation is involved, both countries always find it more useful to paint the other as the villain. The Pakistani government, which in reality is playing a central role in the war on terror, gets to paint itself as the victim of a bullying superpower.
这不过是老的脚本。不管存在怎样的合作，这两个国家还是觉得，把对方描绘成恶棍要来的方便一些。现实中，巴基斯坦政府在反恐战争中扮演关键角色，却总是将自己描绘成被强权欺凌的受害者。
Meanwhile, American officials keep pointing to Pakistan’s “double game” for most of their failures in Afghanistan, while downplaying the fact that, without Pakistan, this war would have been impossible to wage in the first place.
与此同时，美国官员则把自己在阿富汗的失败，归因于巴基斯坦的“两面派”，却忽视了这样一个事实：如果没有巴基斯坦，这场战争在一开始就无法展开。
The real root of the dysfunction is not so much deceit between allies as the lies both governments have told their own people. Pakistani and American leaders have systematically and purposefully misled their own publics about the nature and details of their partnership. Each country has used the other as a strategic and convenient punching bag.
之所以会这样前后矛盾，究其真正原因，与其说这两个盟友之间相互欺骗，倒不如说是政府跟民众撒了谎。两国的伙伴关系，究竟是什么性质，个中有哪些细节，巴基斯坦和美国的领导人有意识地、系统地误导了两国公众。两个国家都把对方当做是战略上的拳击沙袋，打击起来很随意。
As an American born to Pakistani parents, fluent in the languages of both countries, I have spent the past 12 years regularly shuttling between the two countries and I’ve seen and heard the duplicitous official narratives steadily take root on each side.
我在美国出生，父母是巴基斯坦人，两种语言都运用纯熟。过去十二年里，我来往于这两个国家之间，我亲眼见过，亲耳听到过两国的官方套话，见证了这些两面三刀的套话如何变成了固定模式。
Just days after 9/11, Pervez Musharraf, the former military ruler of Pakistan, addressed his country in Urdu, telling them that America had asked Pakistan for cooperation in intelligence sharing, the use of Pakistani airspace and logistical support. Mr. Musharraf made it clear that he’d decided to cooperate.
9·11之后几天，巴基斯坦前军事统治者帕维兹·穆沙拉夫(Pervez Musharraf)就用乌尔都语向他的国家发表演讲，告诉民众，美国要求巴基斯坦在情报共享，使用巴基斯坦领空和后勤支持方面提供合作。穆沙拉夫明确表示，他已经决定予以配合。
But that’s where the openness ended. In 2005, for example, when the Pakistani government announced that a senior Al Qaeda operative had died in an accidental bomb-making explosion in Pakistan’s tribal areas, Hayatullah Khan, a Pakistani investigative journalist travelled to the scene of the blast and found fragments of an American Hellfire missile. Mr. Khan was kidnapped and soon turned up dead. Presenting evidence that America could operate in Pakistani airspace turned out to be deadly.
但是这种坦率就到此为止了。比方说，2005年，巴基斯坦政府宣布，一位基地组织的高级成员在巴基斯坦部族地区制造炸弹时意外爆炸身亡。一位名叫哈亚图拉·汗(Hayatullah Khan)的巴基斯坦调查记者亲赴爆炸现场，却发现了美国地狱火导弹的碎片。这名记者旋即遭到绑架，很快被人发现已经死亡。发现美国能够使用巴基斯坦领空，并提交证据，居然导致了他的死亡。
Seven years later, the American public still doesn’t know much about what their country does in Pakistan. For years, Washington didn’t even recognize the use of drones there. Only recently, after leaks from inside the Obama administration forced officials to begin speaking about the details of the program, have Americans been able to piece together a basic outline.
七年之后，对于美国究竟在巴基斯坦做了些什么，美国民众仍然所知甚少。有好几年的时间，华盛顿当局甚至都不承认在巴基斯坦使用过无人机。只是到了最近，直到奥巴马政府内部泄密之后，官员们才不得不开始谈论起整个项目的细节问题。美国民众也才能够拼凑出一个基本轮廓。
The same is true of supply lines into landlocked Afghanistan. Within months of the 2001 invasion, Mr. Musharraf signed a deal allowing the transport of American and NATO military equipment through Pakistan. But the agreement was kept secret from the Pakistani people until 2010. The American government was no more candid with its own people. Americans never truly appreciated, for example, that since President George W. Bush was denied permission to dock U.S. Navy vessels in Pakistani ports, America was forced to outsource nearly the entire American military supply chain into the hands of private contractors close to the Pakistani military.
为内陆的阿富汗提供支援保障方面，其实也是这样一个情况。2001年美国入侵阿富汗，几个月之内，穆沙拉夫就签署协议，允许美国和北约的军事设备借道巴基斯坦。但是这一协议直到2010年才向巴基斯坦人民公布。对美国人民，其政府也没有更坦率到哪里去。比方说，自从乔治·W·布什总统(President George W. Bush)没有获得让美国海军舰艇停靠在巴基斯坦港口的许可，美国不得不将整个美国军事补给几乎全部外包给私人承包商，后者与巴基斯坦军方关系密切。
The decision to hide and obscure such details was born of a desire to control the precarious narrative of the war at home. Insecure Pakistani leaders always feared that details of the cooperation would destabilize their already shaky regimes. Likewise, Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama likely thought that publicly acknowledging the compromises they’d made to win Pakistan’s support, might make them appear weak. Keeping their citizens in the dark, leaders in both nations seemed to think, would keep the cooperation simple.
之所以决定要隐藏和掩饰这些具体细节，出发点是想要控制国内关于战争摇摆不定的舆论。巴基斯坦的领导人缺乏安全感，总是害怕同美国合作的细节会危及他们岌岌可危的统治。类似的，布什总统和奥巴马总统很有可能认为，如果公开承认，为了赢得巴基斯坦的支持而做了妥协，会被人认为有些软弱。两国领导人似乎是在想，不让公民知情会使合作更加简单一些。
The result has been quite the opposite. The stark disconnect between reality and rhetoric now makes both governments’ pronouncements sound absurd. There have been more than 300 American drone strikes in a remote corner of Pakistan. And while Islamabad continues to denounce these strikes, Pakistani citizens see thousands of trucks carrying huge shipping containers on the highways every day, bringing supplies to the American military in Afghanistan. Likewise, Americans have learned that billions of dollars in aid is still flowing to Pakistan, despite the fact that Osama bin Laden was living a mile away from Pakistan’s main military academy for years.
但是结果却恰恰相反。现实与套话严重脱节，让两国政府的声明显得如此滑稽。在巴基斯坦一个遥远的角落里，就发生了超过300起无人机袭击。虽然伊斯兰堡当局持续谴责这些袭击行为，巴基斯坦民众还是每天都会在公路上看到数千辆卡车，将巨型集装箱中的补给运输给驻扎在阿富汗的美国部队。同样的，虽然奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)曾经的住所离巴基斯坦的主要军事学院只有一英里远，而且他一住就是几年，美国人却发现数十亿美元的援助仍然源源不断地流向巴基斯坦。
The resulting confusion is making Americans and Pakistanis hate each other. A Pew Research Center poll in July found that America is more disliked in Pakistan than anywhere else. A Gallup poll a few months earlier found that the countries most disliked by Americans are Pakistan, Iran and North Korea.
因此人们感到困惑，之后的结果是美国人和巴基斯坦人都憎恨对方。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)七月份的民意调查发现，在世界范围内，美国在巴基斯坦最受厌恶。而稍早几个月的一份盖洛普民意调查(Gallup poll)发现，美国人最讨厌的国家是巴基斯坦，伊朗和朝鲜。
The lies that were meant to hold Pakistan and America together in a time of war, are now imperiling the alliance they were meant to protect.
在战争时期，这些明明是想要把巴基斯坦和美国团结在一起的谎言，现在却危害到了本应受到保护的两国盟友关系。
The two countries have been geopolitical allies since Pakistan appeared on the map in 1947. In the interest of preserving this long-term relationship, which will remain vital to both countries long after the American troops withdraw from Afghanistan, the details of the agreements between Pakistan and America must be made public. In the end, Americans and Pakistanis want the same thing — the truth, for once, from their leaders.
自从1947年巴基斯坦建国至今，美国和巴基斯坦一直都是地缘政治上的盟友。就算美国从阿富汗撤军，长远看维持这种关系都十分重要。因此，巴基斯坦和美国之间的各种协议细节必须向外界公布。到头来，美国人和巴基斯坦人追求的都是一件事情——即两国领导人说一次真话。