ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — In the deadliest attack on the Pakistani capital in more than five years, a powerful explosion ripped through a crowded market in Islamabad on Wednesday, killing at least 22 people and suggesting that, after a long stretch of relative calm, the city was back in the firing line of the country’s militants.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡——本周三，伊斯兰堡一处拥挤的市场发生了强烈的爆炸，导致至少22人丧命。这是巴基斯坦首都五年多以来死伤最惨重的袭击事件，表明在经历了长时间的相对平静之后，这座城市再次成为了本国激进分子攻击的焦点。
The bomb, which the police said had been hidden in a crate of guava fruit and possibly triggered by remote control, went off in the early morning at a wholesale fruit market on the edge of the city. Television video showed the devastating aftermath — charred debris, shattered carts and bloodstained fruit — while witnesses spoke of seeing dismembered limbs and bodies flung high into the air. At least 100 people were reported to have been hurt.
警方称，爆炸于清晨发生在该市边缘的一处水果批发市场，炸弹被藏在一个番石榴果板条箱里，可能是遥控引爆的。电视视频显示了爆炸造成的灾难性后果——烧焦的瓦砾、碎裂的购物车和血染的水果——目击者则声称，他们看见受害者的肢体被炸飞到空中。据报道，至少有100人受伤。
It was the deadliest assault in the capital since the bombing of the Marriott Hotel that killed 54 people in September 2008, one of a barrage of attacks that year and the next in which Islamist militants waged their terror campaign directly on Islamabad. For many shocked residents, the market bombing on Wednesday recalled that time of siege. But the question of which group planted the bomb — and to what end — became mired in a fog of claims and counterclaims throughout the day.
2008年和2009年，伊斯兰教激进分子直接对伊斯兰堡发动了密集的恐怖袭击，其中之一是2008年9月的万豪酒店(Marriott Hotel)爆炸案，该事件导致54人遇害。周三的事件是自那以来伊斯兰堡遭受的死伤最惨重的袭击。对许多震惊的居民来说，周三的水果市场爆炸案让他们回忆起了那段不断遇袭的日子。不过，当日涌现的各种宣称为此负责的声明和反驳让人如堕云雾，无从判断究竟是哪个组织埋下了炸弹，目的又是什么。
Immediately after the attack, a spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban said that the group had nothing to do with it. He criticized the violence against civilians — the group’s stock in trade since its formal emergence in 2007 — and insisted that the Taliban were observing a cease-fire until Thursday in support of peace talks with the government.
袭击发生后，巴基斯坦塔利班组织(Taliban)的一名发言人立即表示，该组织与此事无关。他指责此次事件是针对平民的暴行，并且坚称，为了支持和政府之间的和平谈判，塔利班一直谨遵停火协议。袭击平民是塔利班自2007年正式现身以来的惯用伎俩。
“Attacks on public places and targeting innocent people is regrettable and un-Islamic,” the spokesman, Shahidullah Shahid, said in a statement released to the Pakistani news media.
塔利班发言人夏希杜拉·沙希德(Shahidullah Shahid)在对巴基斯坦新闻媒体发布的一则声明中表示，“袭击公共场所和无辜民众是令人遗憾的反伊斯兰教义行为。”
Instead, a man identifying himself as a spokesman for a little-known separatist group, the United Baluch Army, claimed responsibility for the bombing.
与之相反，一名自称“俾路支联合军”(United Baloch Army)发言人的男子宣称，该组织对此次爆炸事件负责。“俾路支联合军”是一个鲜为人知的分离主义组织。
The group was virtually unheard-of until Tuesday, when it also claimed responsibility for an attack on a train that killed 14 people and wounded 40 more as it passed through central Baluchistan Province. The spokesman, who gave his name as Mureed Baluch, made the claim for both bombings by telephone to several Pakistani journalists.
直到周二之前，这个组织几乎不为人知。该组织还曾在周二宣称对一起火车袭击事件负责，那次袭击导致14人丧命，40人受伤，遇袭火车当时正在穿越巴勒斯坦中部的俾路支省。自称名为穆里德·俾路支(Mureed Baluch)的前述发言人给几名巴基斯坦记者去电表示，该组织宣布对这两起爆炸事件负责。
But then the Interior Ministry took the unusual step of trying to discredit the group’s claim — all the while declining to say who it thought was responsible.
不过，巴基斯坦内政部随后做出了非比寻常的举动，试图质疑该组织的负责声明，与此同时，内政部始终拒绝透露，该部门认定的责任人是谁。
“It is not only surprising, but ridiculous that the United Baluch Army has claimed responsibility for the attack,” a ministry spokesman said in a text message to reporters. “According to government and intelligence agency investigations, the root of this incident can be found elsewhere.”
“俾路支联合军宣布对袭击负责，此举不仅出人意料，而且很荒谬，”内政部一名发言人在发给记者的短信中说，“根据政府和情报机构的调查，制造这次事件的是其他人。”
The statement concluded that “whoever is responsible” would be brought to justice.
内政部在该声明的结尾称，“不管凶手是谁”，都将被绳之以法。
Baluch separatists have been fighting for independence from Pakistan for about eight years, accusing the central government of ignoring their sprawling, poverty-stricken province. But the United Baluch Army is not among the main militant groups, which until now have generally limited their attacks to Baluchistan Province.
过去大概八年的时间里，俾路支分裂分子一直在为脱离巴基斯坦而斗争，他们谴责中央政府漠视他们那个地域广阔的贫困省份。不过，俾路支联合军并非主要的激进组织。在此之前，主要的激进组织普遍将袭击限定在俾路支省范围内。
The conflicting claims and emergence of shadowy groups come at a tense time in Pakistan, and come against a background of fluctuating relations among the civilian government, the Taliban and the military.
这些相互矛盾的声明和默默无闻的组织浮出水面之际，巴基斯坦正处于紧张时期，文职政府、塔利班和军方三方之间的动荡关系是这些事件的大背景。
The Taliban peace talks — Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s initiative to end years of militant bloodshed — have been undermined by a spate of Taliban-style suicide attacks over the past five weeks that have killed at least 63 people, including a senior judge. Most of the attacks were claimed by Ahrar-ul-Hind, an apparent Taliban splinter group that first claimed responsibility for an attack on March 3, a bombing at an Islamabad courthouse.
与塔利班的和平谈判——总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)为结束多年的武装流血冲突而做出的提议——遭到了过去五周里一连串塔利班风格自杀式袭击的破坏，这些袭击导致至少63人死亡，包括一名资深法官。似乎是塔利班内部异议派别的Ahrar-ul-Hind组织声称对大部分袭击负责。最开始，该组织宣布对3月3日的袭击负责，那是发生在伊斯兰堡一家法院的一起爆炸事件。
The attacks throughout the cease-fire have been alternately taken as either an attempt by the Pakistani Taliban to negotiate through force, or as evidence that the group, always a relatively loose confederation of militants, might be fracturing into violent internal divisions.
人们有时认为，停火期间发生的袭击是巴基斯坦塔利班以武力赢得谈判的尝试，有时又认为，这是该组织可能会产生暴力内讧的证据。塔利班是激进分子组成的联盟，一直都相对松散。