The killing of Qandeel Baloch, a social media star some called the Kim Kardashian of Pakistan, provoked an outcry on social media from Pakistani feminists and others who saw the 26-year-old as a symbol of women’s empowerment.
被一些人称为巴基斯坦版金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)的社交媒体明星坎迪尔·俾路支(Qandeel Baloch)遭到杀害的消息，在社交媒体上引发了巴基斯坦的女权主义者以及把这个26岁女人视为女权象征的一些人士的强烈抗议。
Ms. Baloch had attracted a huge following, and no shortage of controversy, on social media with provocative photos and videos. But on Friday night, she was drugged and strangled by her brother as she slept at her parents’ home in Muzaffarabad, a town on the outskirts of Multan in Punjab Province, the police said.
俾路支在社交媒体上发布挑逗性的照片和视频，赢得大量粉丝，也引来不少争议。警方称，周五晚上，她在旁遮普省木尔坦市郊区小镇穆扎法拉巴德父母家中睡觉时，被弟弟下药并勒死。
After he was arrested on Saturday, the brother, Waseem Ahmed Azeem, said he had killed her because of the “shameful” pictures she had posted to Facebook.
周六，她的弟弟瓦西姆·艾哈迈德·阿齐姆(Waseem Ahmed Azeem)在被捕后称，杀死姐姐是因为她在Facebook上发布“下流的”照片。
Rafia Zakaria, a columnist for the newspaper Dawn and the author of “The Upstairs Wife,” a book about the place of women in Pakistani culture, said that in a young and increasingly urban society, Ms. Baloch had represented a generation of women who were increasingly independent and who used technology to express themselves.
《黎明》报的专栏作家、写有讲述妇女在巴基斯坦文化中地位的《楼上的妻子》(The Upstairs Wife)一书的作者拉菲娅·扎卡里亚(Rafia Zakaria)说，在一个年轻的、日益城市化的社会里，俾路支代表着新一代更加独立、会运用科技手段表达自己的女性。
“This is a new weapon in the hands of Pakistani women,” she said in a phone interview on Monday.
“这是巴基斯坦女性手中的新武器，”周一她在接受电话采访时说。
Reem Wasay wrote of Ms. Baloch in Dawn: “She had questionable taste and she openly mocked our outrage, but she made a lot of us root for her because she was so unbelievable we almost thought she was invincible.”
里姆·维西(Reem Wasay)在《黎明》报上谈论俾路支时写道：“她的品味值得怀疑，她公开嘲笑我们的愤怒，不过她能让我们很多人支持她，因为她太不可思议了，我们几乎认为她是不可战胜的。”
As of Tuesday morning, more than 3,000 people had signed an online petition, posted by a feminist collective, that condemned Ms. Baloch’s death, called her “a rebel, an artist, and a gutsy feminist provocateur,” and mourned her, along with victims of domestic violence in the United States and elsewhere.
周二上午，一个女权主义团体在网上发布的请愿书获得3000多人签名支持，表达对俾路支之死的愤慨和哀悼，称她是“反抗者、艺术家、勇敢的女权主义挑战者”，同时也向美国等地的家暴受害者表示哀悼。
But while many people lauded Ms. Baloch, others celebrated her death on social media.
不过，虽然很多人称赞俾路支，也有人在社交媒体上庆祝她的死亡。
There are hundreds of “honor killings” in Pakistan each year, and the assailants often go free because a legal loophole in the country allows the authorities not to prosecute a murder case if the victim’s family forgives the killer.
巴基斯坦每年发生数百起“荣誉处决”，袭击者往往都能逃脱惩罚，因为该国法律有个漏洞：如果受害者的家人原谅凶手，当局可以不予起诉。
After a public outcry over Ms. Baloch’s death, however, officials announced on Monday that the Azeem family would be barred from pardoning her killer. Women’s rights advocates welcomed the move but said Pakistan should change the law to ban such pardons in all cases.
不过，在公众对俾路支之死表示强烈愤慨之后，巴基斯坦官员们周一宣布，将禁止阿齐姆的家人原谅凶手。女权倡导者欢迎这一举措，不过表示，巴基斯坦应该修改法律，在所有案件中禁止此类宽恕。
The authorities also said they were investigating a high-ranking cleric, Mufti Abdul Qavi, who had appeared with Ms. Baloch in selfies taken in a hotel room last month. The photos prompted Mr. Qavi’s removal from a religious committee that determines when Ramadan starts and ends based on the moon’s sighting.
当局还表示，他们正在调查高级神职人员穆夫提·阿卜杜勒·卡夫(Mufti Abdul Qavi)。上个月他和俾路支在酒店房间里的自拍照曝光。这些照片导致卡夫从一个宗教委员会撤职——该委员会根据月相决定斋月的起止时间。
In remarks to GeoTV, Ms. Baloch’s mother accused Mr. Qavi of provoking Mr. Azeem into killing her daughter. But Mr. Qavi said that he had met with her only to discuss the teachings of Islam and that it was ridiculous that he was included in the investigation after her brother’s public confession.
在接受GeoTV电视台采访时，俾路支的母亲指责卡夫挑唆阿齐姆杀害姐姐。不过卡夫称自己与俾路支见面只是为了讨论伊斯兰教义，还表示，在她弟弟公开认罪之后，他被扯入调查是十分荒谬的。
Born Fauzia Azeem into a poor family in a small town in Punjab Province, Ms. Baloch said she was forced into marriage at age 17. According to new reports, she had a child who lives with her former husband. Her first foray into the public eye was a disastrous audition on “Pakistan Idol.” She was escorted offstage by one of the hosts and ended the segment in tears.
俾路支原名福齐娅·阿齐姆(Fauzia Azeem)，出生在旁遮普省某小镇的一个贫穷家庭。她说自己被迫在17岁时结婚。据新闻报道称，她有个孩子与前夫住在一起。她第一次突然进入公众视野是在《巴基斯坦偶像》(Pakistan Idol)的一次极为糟糕的试镜中。她在一名主持人的陪同下下台，在眼泪中结束了人生的那个片段。
Her rejection from the mainstream entertainment industry spurred her to cultivate a following on social media with a mix of campy, sexy videos and messages about female empowerment. Speaking mostly in Urdu, she discussed topics like her crush on Imran Khan, the cricket star turned politician.
她遭到主流娱乐业拒绝，这激发她在社交媒体上通过矫揉造作、性感的视频和关于女性赋权的言论，培养了很多追随者。她大多数时候以乌尔都语发帖，谈论她对板球明星出身的政客伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)的爱慕等话题。
She called herself a “one-woman army,” often recording herself alone in her bedroom or sometimes pulling stunts like promising to striptease if Pakistan won a cricket match. After her death, her father said she had been supporting her family — including the brother who killed her.
她称自己是一支“由一个女人组成的军队”，经常记录自己独自在卧室的情形，有时也会哗众取宠，比如发誓称，如果巴基斯坦赢了某场板球赛，她会表演脱衣舞。在她去世后，她父亲说，这家人靠她养活，包括杀害她的那个弟弟。
“She’s so self-made,” said Ms. Zakaria. “She’s taking bits and pieces she’s seen in social media, in magazines. She’s very much like the internet phenomenon anywhere. And people found her entertaining and liked her.”
“她完全是靠自己奋斗，”扎卡里亚说，“她模仿自己在社交媒体和杂志上看到的零零碎碎的东西。她和其他地方出现的网络现象很相似。人们觉得她很有趣，喜欢她。”
“She was very titillating and the Pakistani men who found her titillating would not admit it,” she added. “And that’s the bluff that she was calling out: You think I’m so bad but you want me.”
“她极具挑逗性，心里这么想的巴基斯坦男人们嘴上不会承认，”她补充说道。“她豪爽地宣称：你们觉得我很坏，但你们想要我。”
That also made her a lightning rod for criticism in a conservative society.
这也让她成为一个保守社会的批评焦点。
“Everybody was talking about her,” said Malik Siraj Akbar, a Pakistani journalist now based in Washington, where he leads a think tank called the Balochistan Institute. He is Baloch, an ethnic minority in Pakistan. Ms. Baloch was, too, and that apparently inspired her stage name. But many Baloch people were upset because she was seen as bringing disrepute to the community, Mr. Akbar said by phone.
“大家都在谈论她，”在华盛顿工作的巴基斯坦记者马利克·西拉杰·阿克巴尔(Malik Siraj Akbar)说。他是一个名叫俾路支协会(the Balochistan Institute)的智囊团的领袖。他是巴基斯坦少数民族俾路支人。俾路支女士也是，她的艺名显然来源于此。不过，阿克巴尔在电话采访中说，很多俾路支人对她感到不满，认为她玷污了该民族的声誉。
“Men would condemn her, but I’m sure they were all secretly following her stuff on Instagram,” he added.
“男人们谴责她，但我确信他们都在悄悄查看她在Instagram上发布的内容，”他补充说。
Ms. Baloch did not talk about her family or personal life in public. She had no handlers and no notable show business gigs.
俾路支不公开谈论自己的家庭或个人生活。她没有经纪人，也没有做过什么值得注意的演艺工作。
Nighat Dad, the Lahore-based executive director of the Digital Rights Foundation and a member of the feminist collective that posted the petition celebrating Ms. Baloch, said that after writing on Twitter about the case, she had received an unprecedented backlash. “I have never heard this kind of hate,” she said in an interview.
拉合尔的数字权利基金会(Digital Rights Foundation)的执行总监妮格特·达德(Nighat Dad)是在网上发布称赞俾路支的请愿书的女权主义团体成员。她说自己在Twitter上发表关于此案的帖子之后，遭到前所未有的强烈反对。“我从未遇到过这么强烈的仇恨，”她在接受采访时说。
The petition rebuts the notion that Ms. Baloch was the country’s Kim Kardashian: “She was our Qandeel: a working-class woman, a Third World feminist, a disrupter and a firebrand who dared to do as she pleased, despite threats to her life.”
这份请愿书反驳俾路支是该国的金·卡戴珊的观点：“她是我们的坎迪尔：一个工薪阶层女性、一个第三世界的女权主义者、一个规则破坏者、一个敢于做自己喜欢的事的煽动者——尽管面临着生命威胁。”
After the scandal over the photos with Mr. Qavi, Ms. Baloch had revealed that she was receiving threats, and she appealed to Pakistan’s Interior Ministry for protection.
在与卡夫的自拍照丑闻曝光之后，俾路支透露，她收到死亡威胁，并请求巴基斯坦内政部(Interior Ministry)保护自己。
“They’ve silenced her in a very public way to function as a deterrent,” Ms. Zakaria said. “But when you consider the fact that there are millions of Qandeels out there sitting on their computers at night, in Karachi and Lahore and Multan, it’s only a matter of time before there’s going to be more and more of this.”
“他们以非常公开的方式让她保持沉默，作为一种威慑，”扎卡里亚说，“但是当你考虑到这个事实——在卡拉奇、拉合尔和木尔坦，有数百万坎迪尔晚上坐在电脑前——你就该知道，迟早会有越来越多的女人表达自己的心声。”