LONDON — In a surprise choice that bodes poorly for proposed peace talks, the Pakistani Taliban on Thursday appointed as their new leader the hard-line commander responsible for last year’s attack on Malala Yousafzai, the teenage Pakistani education activist.
伦敦——本周四，巴基斯坦塔利班(Taliban)做出了一个出人意料的选择，将一名强硬派指挥官任命为该组织的新头目，这一选择十分不利于提议举行的和平谈判。去年对巴基斯坦青少年教育活动人士马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)发动袭击的罪魁，就是这个人。
The Taliban’s governing council chose Mullah Fazlullah, the head of a militant faction in the northwestern Swat Valley, after six days of deliberations, Taliban officials told reporters. Mr. Fazlullah is best known for ordering public beatings, executions and beheadings, and delivering thunderous radio broadcasts — in which he denounced polio vaccinations, among other topics — that earned him the nickname “Mullah Radio” in some circles.
塔利班官员对记者说，经过六天的商议，塔利班的权力机构选中了毛拉法兹卢拉(Mullah Fazlullah)，他是巴基斯坦西北部斯瓦特山谷(Swat Valley)的一个武装派别的头目。法兹卢拉最知名的是下令实施公开的鞭打、处决和斩首，以及发表怒气冲天的广播讲话。在讲话中，他对包括接种小儿麻痹症疫苗在内的诸多话题大加谴责，这让他在某些圈子里得到了“毛拉电台”的绰号。
Celebratory gunfire erupted in North Waziristan, the tribal district that is Pakistan’s main militant hub, after Mr. Fazlullah’s accession was announced. But the news was likely to be received with less enthusiasm by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s government.
由法兹卢拉继任头目的消息宣布以后，北瓦济利斯坦响起了庆祝的枪声，这个部族地区是武装组织在巴基斯坦驻扎的主要区域。不过，由总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)领导的政府对这条消息应该不会多么激动。
Furious officials criticized the United States’ killing of the previous Taliban leader, Hakimullah Mehsud, in a drone strike last Friday, claiming that the Mr. Mehsud had been on the verge of starting peace talks with the government.
愤怒的巴基斯坦官员指责美国在上周五的无人机攻击中，击毙了塔利班上一任头目哈基穆拉·马哈苏德(Hakimullah Mehsud)，声称当时马哈苏德即将要和政府开展和平谈判。
But few believed those talks had much chance of success, and Mr. Fazlullah, who reneged on a previous peace deal in 2009, offers even dimmer hopes. On Thursday, his spokesman, Shahidullah Shahid, said there would be “no more talks as Mullah Fazlullah is already against negotiations.”
不过，没有几个人认为谈判有多少成功的机会，但选择法兹卢拉让希望甚至更加渺茫了，他曾撕毁于2009年达成的上一份和平协议。周四，他的发言人夏希杜拉·沙希德(Shahidullah Shahid)说，“法兹卢拉本来就反对谈判，所以不会再有什么谈判了。”
Instead, Mr. Shahid said, the Taliban were planning retaliatory attacks against the federal government in Punjab, Pakistan’s most populous province. Mr. Sharif “bargained and sold out Hakimullah to the Americans,” he said.
沙希德说，塔利班正计划对位于旁遮普省的中央政府发动报复性袭击，旁遮普是巴基斯坦人口最多的省。他说，谢里夫“一边谈判，一边把哈基穆拉出卖给了美国人”。
For the Pakistani military, Mr. Fazlullah is a cherished enemy. He escaped the army’s toughest anti-Taliban offensive of recent years in 2009 when, as thousands of soldiers swept through Swat, after the collapse of a peace deal, he fled across the border into Afghanistan.
对巴基斯坦军方而言，法兹卢拉是一个重点关注的敌人。2009年，他逃脱了军方在近些年里展开过的最严酷的反塔利班攻势。当时，数千名士兵在和平协议破裂后，全面扫荡了斯瓦特，他则穿过边境线，逃到了阿富汗。
Since then he is believed to have been hiding in Kunar and Nuristan Provinces in eastern Afghanistan, using the mountains as a base to stage attacks inside Pakistan, including the attack on Ms. Yousafzai, who was shot in the head by a Taliban gunman in October 2012.
据信，自那以后他一直藏身在阿富汗东部的库纳尔省和努里斯坦省，利用山区作为基地，在巴基斯坦境内发动袭击，其中包括对马拉拉的袭击。2012年10月，她被一名塔利班枪手击中了头部。
Mr. Fazlullah claimed a major military target in September when his fighters killed a two-star army general in Dir district, near the Afghan border, in September.
法兹卢拉今年9月击毙了一个重要的军事目标，他手下的武装分子在阿富汗边境附近的迪尔地区(Dir)杀死了一名陆军少将。
Mr. Fazlullah was not the favored candidate to succeed Mr. Mehsud because he did not hail from the Mehsud tribe, which has dominated the leadership of the Pakistani Taliban since the group was founded in 2007.
法兹卢拉并不是众人青睐的接替马哈苏德的人选，因为他并非来自马哈苏德的部族，自巴基斯坦塔利班于2007年成立以来，马哈苏德的部族就一直把持着该组织的领导权。
The ranks of the Mehsud leadership, however, have been thinned by the C.I.A. drone campaign. Strikes in North and South Waziristan killed both Hakimullah and his predecessor, Baitullah Mehsud, who died in 2009.
然而，马哈苏德一派的领导人物，已经被美国中央情报局(CIA)的无人机打击所削弱。对南北瓦济里斯坦的空袭，击毙了哈基穆拉和他的前任贝图拉·马哈苏德(Baitullah Mehsud)，后者死于2009年。
A former security official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Fazlullah had been chosen to avert a rift between rival Mehsud factions inside the Taliban.
一位要求匿名的前安全官员透露，之所以选中法兹卢拉，是为了避免塔利班内部，同属马哈苏德部族但相互竞争的派系产生分裂。
The Taliban also appointed Khalid Haqqani, a little known commander from a rural district near Peshawar, as the deputy commander, effectively signaling a shift in the Taliban leadership from the tribal belt to neighboring Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province.
塔利班还任命哈立德·哈卡尼(Khalid Haqqani)为二号头目，他是一个名不见经传的指挥官，来自白沙瓦附近的农村地区。这一点有力地表明，塔利班领导层的来源地，从部族地带转移到了临近的开伯尔-普什图省。
“This changes the entire equation,” said one senior government official in Peshawar.
白沙瓦的一名政府高官表示，“这一点改变了整个格局。”
Mr. Fazlullah, believed to be in his late 30s, offers the Taliban the opportunity of a possible new direction, led by a figure with a reputation for charisma, ruthlessness and publicity savviness.
据信现已年近四十的法兹卢拉，以富有个人魅力、冷酷无情和精于自我宣传而闻名，他可能给塔利班提供了一个调整方向的机遇。
From a poor family, Mr. Fazlullah started his adult life as the operator of a chair lift that spanned the river Swat. He rose to public prominence in 2007 by riding on a white horse into Swat, a picturesque area once popular with honeymooning couples.
法兹卢拉出身贫寒，他成年后的第一份工作是在斯瓦特河上，操作横跨这条河的缆车。2007年，他以骑着白马进入斯瓦特地区而进入公众的视野。斯瓦特是一个风景如画的地区，一度广受蜜月情侣的欢迎。
He set up a pirate radio station that broadcast jihadist propaganda across the valley, at one point urging women not to sleep with their husbands if they refused to join his jihad. Soon afterward, armed fighters displaced the civil government, instituting an authoritarian and often cruel rule that mandated public floggings, executions and the closing of girls’ schools.
他设置了一个非法广播站，在整个山谷里播放宣扬圣战的节目，他曾经敦促女人们，如果丈夫拒绝加入他的圣战组织，就不要和他们同床。在那之后不久，武装分子很快驱逐了文官政府，建立起了专制而且常常很残忍的统治，下令公开进行鞭打和处决，还关闭女生学校。
The provincial and federal governments struggled to respond to Mr. Fazlullah’s swagger, signing two peace deals with his father-in-law, Sufi Muhammad, in a bid to re-establish peace in the valley. But those compromises quickly foundered — there was public outrage across Pakistan over a video that showed Taliban fighters flogging a teenage girl in Swat — and by the summer of 2009, the army had moved in.
省政府和中央政府力图对抗法兹卢拉的嚣张气焰，他们和法兹卢拉的岳父苏菲·穆罕默德(Sufi Muhammad)签订了两份和平协议，目的是在山谷里重建和平。可是，妥协迅速破裂了。一段视频显示塔利班武装分子在斯瓦特地区鞭打一名十几岁的女孩，这引发了巴基斯坦全国的公愤。到2009年夏季时，军队又开进了该地区。
Since then, the Swat Taliban have been reduced to hit-and-run attacks, while the army has been accused by human rights groups of carrying out summary executions of people suspected of being militants.
自那之后，斯瓦特地区的塔利班开展的行动，就只剩下“打了就跑”的袭击。而与此同时，人权组织也指责军方，草率处决被怀疑是武装分子的普通人。