JAKARTA, Indonesia — Four foreign inmates have escaped from a high-security prison on the Indonesian resort island of Bali after digging a 50-foot tunnel under the prison’s walls, the authorities said on Monday.
印度尼西亚雅加达——官方于周一声称，印尼度假岛屿巴厘岛上一座戒备森严的监狱中有四名外国囚犯逃跑，他们在监狱的墙壁之下挖出了一条50英尺的隧道。
Prison guards and local police officers found the tunnel around 8 a.m. local time, leading to a road outside Kerobokan Prison, which houses more than 1,000 inmates, including a large number of foreigners convicted of crimes including murder and drug offenses.
科洛波坎监狱的看守和当地警察在当地时间上午8时左右发现了这条隧道，它通往监狱外的一条道路。这座监狱关押着一千多名囚犯，其中包括大量被判犯有谋杀罪和贩毒罪的外国人。
The prison, which is west of Denpasar, the island’s capital, is only a few miles from many of Bali’s internationally famous beaches and resorts.
这座监狱位于该岛首府登巴萨以西，距离巴厘岛许多享誉国际的海滩和度假胜地仅有数英里。
The police said that the entrance to the tunnel was only 20 by 30 inches. Initially, the authorities thought that as many as seven prisoners had escaped, but a count confirmed that it was only four.
警方说隧道的入口只有20乘30英寸。当局最初认为有多达七名囚犯逃跑，但最后确认只有四名。
“We immediately started a manhunt,” said Hengky Widjaja, a spokesman for the Bali Provincial Police. He said the four inmates escaped under cover of darkness late Sunday or early Monday.
“我们马上开始了搜捕，”巴厘省警方发言人亨基·维查亚(Hengky Widjaja)说。他说，四名囚犯于周日晚上或周一凌晨在黑夜掩护下逃跑。
The fugitives include Shaun Edward Davidson, a 33-year-old Australian from Perth who made headlines in his homeland when he was sentenced to a year in prison in September after being caught using someone else’s passport on the island.
逃犯中包括现年33岁、来自珀斯的澳大利亚人肖恩·爱德华·戴维森(Shaun Edward Davidson)，他因使用他人护照在该岛被捕，并于去年9月被判入狱一年，此事在澳大利亚还登上了新闻。
The other escaped inmates are Dimitar Nikolov Iliev, 43, of Bulgaria; Sayed Mohammed Said, 31, of India; and Tee Kok King, 50, of Malaysia, said Syarpani, a spokesman for the government agency that oversees prisons, who like many Indonesians goes by one name.
其他逃犯还包括43岁的保加利亚人迪米特尔·尼科洛夫·伊利耶夫(Dimitar Nikolov Iliev)，31岁的印度人赛耶德·穆罕默德·赛义德(Sayed Mohammed Said)，以及59岁的马来西亚人郑国经（Tee Kok King，音），主管监狱监督工作的政府机构发言人西亚帕尼(Syarpani)说（同许多印度尼西亚人一样，他的名字只有一个单词）。
Mr. Davidson had been set to be released within three months, according to local news reports, raising questions about why he opted to escape.
据当地新闻报道，戴维森的刑期只剩三个月，人们不禁猜测他为何选择逃跑。
According to The Sydney Morning Herald, in January 2016 Mr. Davidson was due in court in Perth on charges of possession of methamphetamine and cannabis, and two other offenses. When he didn’t attend, an arrest warrant was issued.
根据《悉尼先驱晨报》(The Sydney Morning Herald)报道，2016年1月，戴维森因涉嫌持有冰毒和大麻以及另外两起罪名，本应在珀斯出庭接受审判。但他没有出席，于是法庭对他发出了逮捕令。
Mr. Davidson fled the country, arriving at Bali’s international airport from Perth.
戴维森逃离澳大利亚，从珀斯来到巴厘岛的国际机场。
Mr. Davidson was arrested months later by the Indonesian authorities, who had been looking for him after having received tips that he overstayed his tourist visa and was using false documents, the newspaper reported.
该报纸报道，几个月后，戴维森被印尼当局逮捕，当局接到若干举报，发现他持旅游签证逾期停留，并使用虚假身份文件，此后一直在搜捕他。
The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in an email reply to questions that it had been “advised by Indonesian authorities of an alleged escape from Kerobokan Prison of several prisoners, including an Australian man,” but it declined to comment further.
澳大利亚外交与贸易部通过电子邮件回答了一些问题，邮件中说该部“接到印度尼西亚当局通知，称几名囚犯从科洛波坎监狱逃跑，其中包括一名澳大利亚男子，”但该部拒绝进一步置评。
Kerobokan has long had a grim reputation for overcrowding, corrupt guards and facilities below international standards.
科洛波坎监狱早有恶名，这里人满为患、守卫贪腐成风，监狱设施低于国际标准。
Among the prison’s most notable foreign inmates in recent years were members of the so-called Bali Nine group of Australians who were arrested in 2005 trying to smuggle 18.5 pounds of heroin out of the resort island. The group’s two ringleaders, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, were executed by firing squad in 2015.
近年来，监狱中最著名的外国囚犯是一个人称“巴厘九人组”(Bali Nine)的团伙中的澳大利亚人，他们在2005年因试图携带18.5磅海洛因离开该度假岛而被捕。该集团的两名头目陈子维(Andrew Chan)和缪兰·苏库马兰(Manuran Sukumaran)于2015年被枪决。
The prison was also home for nearly a decade to Schapelle Corby, an Australian former student beautician who was sentenced to 20 years in 2005 for smuggling nine pounds of marijuana into Bali. Now 39, she was granted parole in 2014, and last month allowed to leave the island and return home.
此外还有在这里服刑近十年的莎佩拉·科尔比(Schapelle Corby)，她曾是一名澳大利亚学生美容师，2005年因将9磅大麻走私到巴厘岛被判入狱20年，现年39岁的她在2014年获得假释，上个月被允许离开该岛回家。
Monday’s escape was another black eye for Indonesia’s penal system, which has experienced numerous prison escapes and riots over the years because of overcrowding and inadequate conditions, as well as a lack of guards and prison personnel. In May, hundreds of inmates broke out of an overcrowded prison on the island of Sumatra. In June, flooding caused a wall to collapse at a different prison on Sumatra, allowing dozens to escape.
周一的逃跑事件是对印度尼西亚刑罚制度的又一次沉重打击，由于人满为患、条件匮乏、警卫和监狱人员人手不足，几年来，印尼发生了多起越狱和监狱骚乱事件。5月份，数百名囚犯从苏门答腊岛上一座拥挤的监狱逃离。6月在苏门答腊，洪水冲垮了岛上另一所监狱的墙壁，造成数十人逃跑。