LONDON — The prison hangman loitered in a Lahore graveyard, depressed and nursing a glass of vodka, wondering when he would get back to work.
伦敦——监狱的绞刑执行者在拉合尔的一座墓地里闲荡着，他情绪低落，借着一瓶伏特加消愁，不知道自己什么时候能恢复工作。
Once he had plenty to keep him busy. Before the Pakistani government introduced a moratorium on capital punishment in 2008, the hangman, Sabir Masih, dispatched about 200 prisoners at the gallows over a period of three years.
以前他有足够多让他忙的事。在2008年巴基斯坦政府实施暂停死刑之前，这位名叫萨比尔·马西赫(Sabir Masih)的死刑执行者3年期间就在绞刑架上处决了约200名犯人。
But since then, he has been idle. Every day, he clocks into work at the Kot Lakhpat prison on the edge of Lahore. Every month, he collects his $120 salary. But mostly, he spends his time chatting with fellow Christians at the graveyard, where they furtively smoke and drink out of view of conservative Muslims, for whom alcohol is forbidden.
但打那以后，他就闲了下来。他每天都准时去位于拉合尔郊区的考特拉科帕特(Kot Lakhpat)监狱上班。每个月都领到120美元的工资。但通常，他把时间花在与基督教的朋友们在墓地里闲聊上，他们在那里可以躲开保守的穆斯林人的视线，偷偷地抽烟喝酒，对穆斯林来说，酒精是禁品。
The moratorium, which was introduced by President Asif Ali Zardari, had drained his sense of purpose, he said.
他说，总统阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里(Asif Ali Zardari)实施的这项暂停令已经让自己失去了使命感。
“My job requires courage,” said Mr. Masih, speaking among the gravestones, in a maudlin tone. “It is not for the weak-hearted, because one moment a person is alive, the next he is gone.”
“我的工作需要勇气，”马西赫在墓碑旁，用一种伤感的语调说道，“这可不适合胆小的人，因为一个大活人转眼之间就没了。”
But good news for Mr. Masih — and bad news for the estimated 8,000 prisoners awaiting execution in Pakistan — may be near.
不过，对马西赫来说，好消息或许很快就会到来，而对巴基斯坦约8000名等待执行死刑的犯人来说，这却是个糟糕的消息。
Since coming to power in June, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who favors capital punishment, announced a review of the moratorium. And with Mr. Zardari set to end his tenure as president on Sunday, executions could soon be reinstated.
6月份上台的总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)赞成死刑，上台不久他就宣布要重新考虑暂停死刑的禁令。周日（指9月8日，译注），扎尔达里结束了他的总统任期，死刑可能很快就会恢复。
“The moratorium was not legal,” said Sartaj Aziz, the adviser to the prime minister on national security and foreign affairs. “We are debating whether to continue the stay on execution.”
总理的国家安全和外交事务顾问萨尔塔杰·阿齐兹 (Sartaj Aziz)说，“暂停死刑令不合法。我们正在辩论是否要继续延缓死刑。”
Although the death penalty enjoys some popular support in Pakistan, the possibility that it will be reinstated has drawn sharp disapproval from an unlikely coalition of critics, including jihadist commanders and business leaders, albeit for entirely different reasons.
虽然巴基斯坦有不少人支持死刑，但恢复执行死刑的可能性却引起了一些人的激烈反对，这些批评者形成一个不太可能的联盟，他们中有圣战指挥官和商业领袖，尽管他们反对的理由各不相同。
Human rights activists and the International Commission of Jurists argued that the manifest flaws in Pakistan’s tattered judicial system meant that the innocent, as well as the guilty, could go to the gallows.
人权活动人士和国际法学家委员会(International Commission of Jurists)指出，巴基斯坦支离破碎的司法体系中存在的明显缺陷意味着，无辜的人也可能会像有罪者那样被送上绞刑架。
Mr. Zardari, who has used his powers to block nearly every hanging since 2008, let it be known in private that he would not relent while still in office, human rights campaigners said.
人权活动人士说，从2008年起，扎尔达里一直利用自己的权力阻止了几乎所有的绞刑，他私下更明确地表示，只要在任就不会做出让步。
Under pressure, Mr. Sharif agreed to extend the moratorium, but only until Mr. Zardari leaves office. And he faces a clamor from other Pakistanis who favor a resumption of executions, either for reasons of religious conviction, or out of sheer frustration at the broken judicial system.
面对压力，谢里夫同意延长暂停的命令，但只延到扎尔达里的任期为止。谢里夫也面对着来自其他巴基斯坦人的大声要求，这些人支持恢复执行死刑，他们中有些是因为宗教信念的缘故，有些则出于对支离破碎的司法体系的无奈。
“The death penalty is part of the Shariah and the Holy Koran,” said Shaukat Javed, a former police chief of Punjab Province, where most death row prisoners are held. “Sooner or later, we will have to start executing inmates.”
旁遮普省的一位前警长肖卡特·贾韦德(Shaukat Javed)说，“死刑是伊斯兰教法(Shariah)和《古兰经》的一部分。我们迟早将会对犯人执行死刑。”
Under Pakistani law, convicts sentenced to life imprisonment are often released after as little as 10 years. In some cases, the rich and influential can buy their way out of jail. And militants with the Taliban and other banned groups, who have killed thousands of civilians, are rarely convicted.
根据巴基斯坦法律，被判终身监禁的犯人通常会在服刑短短10年后就被释放。有些情况下，有钱有势的人还可以花钱免掉去监狱服刑。而打死了上千平民的塔利班和其他被禁止组织的武装分子们却很少被判有罪。
“We need to tighten the law before we can talk about abolishing the death penalty,” said Mr. Aziz, the government adviser. He added that the death penalty was still in use in India and the United States, two countries from which Pakistanis are often loath to accept lectures.
任政府顾问的阿齐兹说，“在谈论取消死刑之前，我们应该先严格执行法律。”他还补充说，死刑在印度和美国都依然存在，这两个国家的说教是巴基斯坦往往不愿意接受的。
Before the freeze on executions, Pakistan was one of the world’s most enthusiastic proponents of capital punishment. About 27 offenses, including blasphemy and computer crimes, are punishable by execution. The 8,000 Pakistanis on death row account for about one-third of the world total, according to Amnesty International (although the group does not have figures for China, which is thought to carry out the highest number of executions).
在暂停死刑之前，巴基斯坦是世界上最热心支持死刑的国家之一。约有27项罪名可以被判死刑，其中包括亵渎神灵和计算机犯罪。根据国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)的数据，巴基斯坦的8000名死囚犯约占世界上所有被判死刑者的三分之一，但国际特赦组织的数字不包括中国，人们认为中国执行死刑的人数居世界之首。
Government officials say they might permanently extend the moratorium on human rights and business grounds — although critics believe they are equally influenced by fear of the Taliban.
政府官员说，出于人权和商业的考虑，他们可能会永久地禁止死刑，但是批评人士认为对塔利班的恐惧同样也影响政府官员。
In a joint letter to Mr. Sharif and others on Aug. 16, Human Rights Watch and the International Commission of Jurists said that a resumption of executions would constitute “a major step back for human rights in the country.” Human rights groups have also been sharply critical about the quality of trial justice in Pakistan, and have raised concerns about the high number of teenagers on death row.
人权观察(Human Rights Watch)和国际法学家委员会在8月16日给谢里夫和其他人的联名信中称，恢复执行死刑将是“该国在人权上的一大退步。”人权组织也已对巴基斯坦的审判公正性提出尖锐批评，还对死囚牢中的青少年人数之多表示担忧。
In Islamabad on Aug. 27, Ana Gomes, the head of a European Union trade delegation, warned that new hangings would represent a “major setback” to Pakistan’s chance of obtaining lucrative trade tariffs: a matter that is subject to a vote in European Parliament in the coming weeks.
8月27日欧盟(European Union)贸易代表团团长阿纳·戈梅斯(Ana Gomes)在伊斯兰堡警告称，恢复绞刑对巴基斯坦希望得到有利可图的的贸易关税机会来说，会带来“重大挫折”，欧盟委员会在未来几周内将对关税问题进行表决。
For Mr. Zardari, the moratorium is personal and political. His father-in-law, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, a one-time prime minister and father of Benazir Bhutto, was executed under the military dictator Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq in 1979.
死刑禁令对扎尔达里来说既有关个人，也有关政治。他的岳父，也就是贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)的父亲，佐勒菲卡尔·阿里·布托(Zulfikar Ali Bhutto)在军事独裁者穆罕默德·齐亚·哈克将军(Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq)统治下，于1979年被处死。
In recent days, senior rights activists have reported rumors that the incoming president, Mamnoon Hussain, who is to be sworn in on Monday, would extend the freeze on executions.
近日来，资深权益活动人士报称听到谣言，说周一上任的总统马姆努恩·侯赛因(Mamnoon Hussain)将会延长停止执行死刑。
Mr. Masih, the Lahore hangman, hopes that the activists are wrong. Back at the Lahore graveyard, he said that if hangings do resume, he anticipated a busy time clearing the backlog. “I might have to hang three or four in a day,” he said.
拉合尔的绞刑执行者马西赫希望这些活动人士听错了。他在拉合尔的墓地里说，如果恢复执行绞刑，他预计会有一阵子要忙着清理积压的犯人。他说，“我可能一天要绞死三到四个人。”
Although his father and grandfather had been hangmen, he said he found the job difficult at first. But then he learned “not to think about it.”
他说，虽然他的父亲和祖父都是绞刑执行者，但他一开始时觉得这个活儿很难。不过他后来学会了“不去想它。”
Musing on his job, he explained his technique for guiding condemned men through their last moments.
他若有所思地谈着自己的工作，解释了自己引导死刑犯度过最后一段时间的技术。
“After he is placed on the trap door, I tell him that if he needs to pray, he should do it in his heart,” he said. “Then I go to the lever and pull it.”
他说，“犯人被放在活门上之后，我告诉他，如果你需要祈祷就在心里做吧。然后我走到拉杆旁将其拉下。”