KARACHI, Pakistan —The death toll reached 1,000 on Thursday in this southern port city as residents grappled with a devastating heat wave that has crippled life and overwhelmed the health care system.
巴基斯坦卡拉奇——星期四，高温让这个南部港口城市的死亡人数达到了1000人。当地居民在灾难性的热浪中挣扎，日常生活受到破坏，也让医疗体系不堪重负。
Searing temperatures, which have been as high as 113 degrees Fahrenheit, or 45 degrees Celsius, fell below 100 on Thursday, but a sense of panic and crisis persisted in the city, the country’s financial and commercial capital as well as the capital of Sindh Province.
灼热的气温此前一度攀升到113华氏度（45摄氏度），在星期四降至38摄氏度以下。但在这个国家的金融和商业中心、信德省(Sindh Province)首府城市之中，恐慌和危机感依然持续。
There has been a sharp increase in the sale of air-conditioners and room coolers, local traders said. Morgues have run short of space, and hospitals are filled to capacity as patients scramble to be treated for dehydration and heatstroke. The heat wave has sent more than 14,000 people into government and private hospitals here.
当地的商人说，空调和冷气机的销量直线上升。停尸房空间紧缺，医院中同样挤满了病人，人们争抢着治疗脱水和中暑的资源。热浪已经将超过1.4万人送入当地公立或私立的医院。
Anwar Kazmi, a spokesman for the Edhi Foundation, which runs a private ambulance service and the city’s main morgue, said the group had buried 40 unidentified bodies Thursday and would later bury another 40 later. The morgue, which has a capacity of 200, has been overrun since the heat wave began late last week, and the charity group said it was now looking into expanding the site.
德希基金会(Edhi foundation)管理着一个私人急救服务中心以及城市中一个大停尸房。基金会发言人安瓦尔·卡兹米(Anwar Kazmi)称，该组织在星期四已经掩埋了40具无名尸体，之后会再埋葬另外40具。该停尸房可容纳200具尸体，自从上周的热浪袭击后一直处于超额运转状态。该慈善组织称，他们正在计划扩大停尸房面积。
Mr. Kazmi said that quick burials had become unavoidable given the extreme heat and the condition of the bodies. “It has become necessary for us to start burying the bodies because of the bad state we are receiving them in,” he said.
卡兹米称，在当前的极端高温及尸体众多的情况下，快速埋葬已经不可避免。“我们必须要开始掩埋尸体，因为我们接收到这些尸体时，状况已经很糟糕了，”他说。
The foundation has buried at least 350 people since the heat wave started. While many of the bodies had been unclaimed, he said, workers were taking photographs before the burials in case relatives came forward.
自热浪袭击以来，基金会已经至少埋葬了350人。他说，许多尸体无人认领，工作人员会在埋葬之前为其照相，以便亲人前来辨认。
Mr. Kazmi said the Edhi Foundation was putting in place plans to expand the morgue’s capacity to 300. “This situation doesn’t arise often,” he said, “but it’s become necessary now for us to improve.”
卡兹米表示，艾德希基金会正在落实一个将停尸房容量增加至300人的计划。“这种情况虽然不常发生，”他说，“但这是我们现在必须要做的改进。”
Most of the dead, many of them drug addicts and the homeless, have come from the poor areas of the city.
死者中包括许多吸毒者和无家可归的人。他们之中的大多数来自城市中的贫民区。