KARACHI, Pakistan — Pakistani investigators on Tuesday raided the offices of Axact, a software firm in Karachi that has come under scrutiny for running a global diploma mill that has earned tens of millions of dollars through a network of fake online schools.
巴基斯坦卡拉奇——巴基斯坦调查人员于周二突击搜查了卡拉奇的软件公司Axact的办公驻地。该公司受到调查是因为它经营着一家全球化的文凭伪造作坊，并通过一系列虚假的在线学校获利数千万美元。
The Pakistani interior minister, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, ordered the investigation after a report by The New York Times described links between Axact and at least 370 websites, many of which purport to be online universities and high schools based in the United States.
《纽约时报》最近的一篇报道揭露了Axact与至少370家网站之间的关系，其中很多网站都自诩为位于美国的在线大学和高中。报道发出后，巴基斯坦内政部长乔杜里·尼萨尔·阿里·汗(Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan)下令开展调查。
On Tuesday, investigators from the corporate crimes unit of the Federal Investigation Agency visited Axact’s headquarters in Karachi, as well as smaller offices in Islamabad, the capital, and Rawalpindi, seizing computers and taking in at least 24 people for questioning, several Pakistani law enforcement officials said.
几名巴基斯坦执法官员表示，来自巴基斯坦联邦调查署(Federal Investigation Agency)法人犯罪科的调查人员周二前往了Axact位于卡拉奇的总部，以及位于首都伊斯兰堡和拉瓦尔品第的规模较小的办公室，没收了电脑并至将至少24人带走问话。
Axact has denied any wrongdoing and has accused The Times of colluding with rival news media companies to frustrate Bol, its new television network, which is scheduled to begin broadcasting this year.
Axact否认自己有任何不法行为，并指责时报和竞争的新闻媒体合谋，是为了阻挠其新成立的电视广播网Bol。该电视网计划于今年开播。
In a statement posted on its website on Monday, Axact said the Times report was “baseless, substandard, maligning, defamatory, and based on false accusations.” The company said it planned to take legal action against the newspaper.
周一，Axact在自己的网站上发表了一则声明，称时报的报道“毫无根据、不合规范、恶意中伤”，是“诽谤和诬告”。该公司称打算对时报采取法律措施。
As it has expanded its business since 1997, Axact has frequently used aggressive legal tactics to silence critics and to dissuade reporters from investigating its business practices. Now it is coming under intense media and political scrutiny in Pakistan.
从1997年开始扩大业务以来，Axact频频利用强硬的法律手段压制批评人士，吓阻调查其业务操作的记者。如今，该公司在巴基斯坦媒体和政界受到了密切关注。
In the upper house of Parliament on Tuesday, Aitzaz Ahsan, a senior leader with the opposition Pakistan Peoples Party, said the episode had brought Pakistan into disrepute, and called for an official investigation.
在议会上院，反对党巴基斯坦人民党(Pakistan Peoples Party)高层领导人艾察兹·阿赫桑(Aitzaz Ahsan)周二表示，此事让巴基斯坦蒙羞，并要求展开正式调查。
In its statement, the Interior Ministry said that investigators would determine whether Axact “is involved in any such illegal work which can tarnish the good image of the country in the world.”
内政部发表声明称，调查人员将查明Axact是否“参与了任何此类非法活动，致使国家在全世界的良好形象受到损害”。
The uproar has generated a barrage of comments on social media in Pakistan. Critics have mocked Axact’s network of online universities, which carry American-sounding names like Barkley and Columbiana. A smaller number of supporters and employees have vociferously defended the company.
此事闹得沸沸扬扬，在巴基斯坦的社交媒体上引发了铺天盖地的讨论。批评人士嘲笑Axact旗下的诸多在线大学，那些大学的名字听起来像在美国，如巴克利(Barkley)和哥伦比亚纳(Columbiana)。人数相对较少的支持者和员工则高声为该公司辩护。
Bloggers publicized the names of university and high school websites they said were also run by Axact, which went beyond a list published by The Times on Sunday.
博客作者称Axact还运营着其他一些大学和高中的网站，并公布了它们的名字。这些名字不在时报周日公布的名单之列。
Several former Axact employees contacted The Times, offering accounts of their experiences working at the company. By Tuesday morning, phone lines at some of the university websites run by Axact were not being answered.
Axact的几名前员工联系到时报，讲述了他们在该公司工作的经历。到周二上午，Axact经营的部分大学网站上列出的电话一直无人接听。
A video circulating on social media showed the company’s founder and chief executive, Shoaib Ahmed Shaikh, addressing cheering employees on Monday evening.
社交媒体上流传的一段视频显示，该公司的创始人及首席执行官沙耶布·艾哈迈徳·谢赫(Shoaib Ahmed Shaikh)周一傍晚向欢呼的员工发表了讲话。
In the video, Mr. Shaikh reiterated many of the points from Axact’s official response and accused a Times reporter of colluding with the rival Express Tribune group, which republishes The International New York Times in Pakistan.
在视频中，谢赫重申了Axact官方回应中的很多观点，并指责时报记者与该公司的竞争对手《论坛快报》(Express Tribune)传媒集团合谋。该集团是《国际纽约时报》(International New York Times)在巴基斯坦的发行方。
Kamran Ataullah, a deputy director at the Federal Investigation Agency in Karachi, said the investigation would not be limited to the contents of the Times article. “We’ve issued a letter to them, and we’re looking for details of their database, employees, what websites and equipment they’re using,” he said.
卡拉奇联邦调查署的一位副署长卡姆兰·阿塔乌拉(Kamran Ataullah)表示，调查不仅限于时报文章里的内容。“我们已向他们去信，我们会检查其数据库的细节、员工，以及他们目前使用的网站和设备，”他说。
The furor comes just as Axact is preparing to start Bol, which has built a large studio and hired away senior journalists from other news media groups. The station is expected to begin broadcasting after Ramadan, the Islamic holy month, which will end in mid-July.
在引起公愤之际，Axact正在准备Bol的开播。Bol已经建好了一个大演播厅，并从其他媒体集团挖走了一些高级记者。Bol预计将在7月中旬穆斯林斋月结束后开播。
Kamran Khan, the editor in chief of Bol, said in a Twitter message that the new station had been created to uphold the truth and was “not in the business of cover-ups regardless personal cost or consequences.”
Bol的总编辑的卡姆兰·汗(Kamran Khan)在Twitter上发言称，成立新台是为了捍卫真相，而且“不管会给个人带来什么代价和后果，都不会掩盖真相”。