ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — The death toll from a devastating earthquake in western Pakistan rose to 327 on Wednesday, as soldiers and rescue workers scrambled to reach victims in one of the country’s remotest areas.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡——巴基斯坦西部发生了一场毁灭性地震，周三，死亡人数已升至327人。地震发生在巴基斯坦偏远地区，士兵和救援人员都在紧张地搜寻受害者。
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who is in New York, ordered officials to expedite relief efforts for victims of the country’s deadliest earthquake since 2005, when about 70,000 people died in an earthquake that struck the northwestern mountains.
身在纽约的巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)命令官员加紧开展救援工作，营救这场自2005年来最严重地震的受害者。2005年，巴基斯坦的西北部山区发生地震，共导致约7万人死亡。
This week’s magnitude 7.7 earthquake struck Tuesday afternoon and was felt across the country, even causing a small island to rise from the Arabian Sea. But its force was greatest in a particularly impoverished part of Baluchistan Province.
这次地震发生在周二下午，震级为7.7级，导致全国出现震感，甚至还使一座小岛浮出了阿拉伯海。但是，受灾最重的还是俾路支省的一片尤为贫困的地区。
Violent tremors felled hundreds of mud-walled houses in six remote districts in southwestern Baluchistan, killing hundreds and injuring at least 446, according to the National Disaster Management Authority.
巴基斯坦国家灾难管理局(National Disaster Management Authority)称，强烈的地震摧毁了俾路支省西南部六个偏远地区的数百座泥墙房屋，共导致几百人丧生，至少446人受伤。
While official estimates put the death toll at 271, officials in the affected districts said that it had reached 327 and that it was expected to rise.
虽然官方预计的死亡人数为271人，但受灾地区官员表示，死亡人数已升至327人，估计还会继续增加。
The greatest damage occurred in Awaran, Baluchistan’s poorest district, which is near the deep-sea port of Gwadar, which Pakistan built with Chinese help over the past decade in the hope of stimulating regional trade.
受灾最严重的地区是阿瓦兰(Awaran)，俾路支省最贫穷的地区。阿瓦兰位于深海港口瓜达尔(Gwadar)附近，该港口是巴基斯坦于过去十年在中国的帮助下修建的，目的是带动该地区的商业贸易。
The army said it was airlifting troops by helicopter to Awaran to supplement at least 1,000 troops who had been sent by truck.
军方称，一批士兵正乘直升机前往阿瓦兰，以便支援乘卡车抵达该地的至少1000名士兵。
The head of the National Disaster Management Authority, Maj. Gen. Muhammad Saeed Aleem, said his priority was to provide shelter to the homeless and added that supplies of medicine, blankets and water were on the way.
国家灾难管理局局长穆罕默德·赛义德·阿利姆少将(Maj. Gen. Muhammad Saeed Aleem)称，当务之急是为无家可归者提供庇护。他还表示，药物、毯子和水正在被运往灾区。
But, he added, the remoteness of the area was impeding relief efforts.
但他补充说，由于该地区位置偏远，救援工作受到了阻碍。
“It was a big quake, and the damage is extensive,” he said.
他说，“这是一场大地震，破坏性非常大。”
Pakistan has not yet requested international assistance, General Aleem said, and hopes that it can deal with the crisis on its own.
阿利姆少将表示，巴基斯坦还没有请求国际支援，希望靠自己的能力处理危机。
Baluchistan is Pakistan’s largest but poorest province, troubled by many conflicts, including a nationalist insurgency that has lasted decades and a spate of suicide bombings this year by sectarian militant groups.
俾路支省是巴基斯坦最大但最穷的省份，面临许多冲突的困扰，比如持续数十年的民族主义暴乱，以及今年由宗派武装组织策划的一连串自杀式爆炸事件。
In addition, the province is prone to earthquakes and recently dealt with a crippling drought, and the provincial government is generally ill prepared to deal with natural calamities.
除此之外，该省是多震地区，最近还遭遇了严重的旱灾。总体说来，该省的政府并没有足以应对自然灾害的充分准备。
“We are seriously lacking medical facilities, and there is no space to treat injured people in the local hospitals,” Jan Muhammad Buledi, a provincial spokesman, was quoted as saying by local television networks.
当地电视台援引该省发言人贾恩·穆罕默德·布莱迪(Jan Muhammad Buledi)的话说，“我们急需医疗设施，本地医院已经没地方治疗受伤人员了。”
Baluchistan was also badly hit by devastating floods that swept Pakistan in 2010, inundating about one-fifth of the country and affecting about 20 million people. About 2,000 people died in that disaster.
2010年，俾路支省还在席卷巴基斯坦的灾难性洪水遭受重创，此次洪灾淹没了巴基斯坦大约五分之一的国土，大约2000万人受到影响。约有2000人在这场灾难中死亡。
The earthquake resulted in an unusual geographical occurrence in the Arabian Sea when the force of the tremors caused a small rocky island to rise from the seabed near the Port of Gwadar.
此次地震导致阿拉伯海发生了不同寻常的地貌变化，地震的威力致使一座岩石小岛从瓜达尔港附近的海床中冒了出来。
Ali Rashid Tabriz, the head of Pakistan’s National Institute of Oceanography, said in a telephone interview Wednesday afternoon that the surfacing of the island, which was visible from the coast, had been caused by an emission of methane gas on the seabed.
巴基斯坦国家海洋研究所所长阿里·拉希德·塔布里兹(Ali Rashid Tabriz)周三下午接受电话采访时表示，在海边就可以看到这座小岛的表面，这是由海床散发甲烷造成的。
“Such islands have appeared in the past in 1955, in 1999 and most recently in 2010,” said Mr. Tabriz, who is based in the port city of Karachi. “But they sink back, and this new island will also not stay there for long.”
“过去也出现过此类小岛，比如1955年和1999年，最近一次是在2010年，”在港口城市卡拉奇工作的塔布里兹说,“但那些岛屿都沉了回去，这个新岛也不会存在很长时间。”
He said experts were conducting a survey and collecting samples in the area.
他表示，专家正在该地区进行调查，采集样本。