ISLAMABAD — At least four people were killed in a missile strike on a compound suspected of housing members of al-Qaida in Pakistan's tribal belt Sunday, local officials said, a day after the Pakistani military said it had killed a senior leader of al-Qaida in the same region.
伊斯兰堡——当地官员称，周日，在巴基斯坦部落地带一处疑为基地组织(al-Qaida)成员所居住的院落遭到导弹袭击，至少四人死亡。就在一天前，巴基斯坦军方曾宣布，在同一区域杀死了基地组织的一名高级领导人。
Pakistani officials gave conflicting accounts about the attack in Datta Khel, a notorious hub of militant activity in North Waziristan tribal district. Some said that U.S. drones had fired missiles on the compound, while others denied any drone strike had taken place.
对于发生在达塔克尔(Datta Khel)的这起袭击事件，巴基斯坦官员给出了相互矛盾的说法。达塔克尔位于北瓦济里斯坦的部落地区，众所周知是武装分子的活动中心。有些人说，是美国的无人机向这个院落发射了导弹，还有一些人则否认发生了无人机袭击。
Local news reports said that Ustad Ahmad Farooq, a Pakistani commander with al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent, the recently formed branch of al-Qaida, died in the blast Sunday. Pakistani officials, however, could not confirm Farooq's death.
当地新闻媒体报道，在基地组织刚刚成立的印度次大陆分支中担任指挥官的巴基斯坦人乌斯塔德·艾哈迈德·法鲁克(Ustad Ahmad Farooq)在周日的袭击中身亡。不过，巴基斯坦官员无法证实这个说法。
It was the second major attack on al-Qaida operations in the tribal belt in two days. On Saturday, the Pakistani military said it had killed Adnan el-Shukrijumah — an al-Qaida leader accused of plotting to bomb the New York City subway system — in a commando raid on a remote mountain valley in neighboring South Waziristan.
这是两天以来部落地带的基地组织遭遇的第二次重大袭击。周六，巴基斯坦军方称，在对附近南瓦济里斯坦一处偏远山谷的突袭行动中，杀死了被指策划纽约市地铁爆炸案的基地组织领导人阿德南·舒凯里朱马(Adnan el-Shukrijumah)。
El-Shukrijumah, 39, was a naturalized U.S. citizen who was indicted in 2010 for his alleged role in several plots, including the foiled subway attack. The FBI described him as a senior figure in al-Qaida's external operations division, and had offered a $5 million reward for information leading to his capture.
舒凯里朱马现年39岁，已加入美国籍。2010年，他被控参与策划多起袭击阴谋，包括那起被挫败的地铁袭击行动。美国联邦调查局(FBI)称他是基地组织海外行动分支的高级成员，并悬赏500万美元（约合3075万元人民币）寻找捉拿他的线索。
Pakistani officials described Farooq, also known as Umer Farooq, as a rising star in al-Qaida's newest offshoot. Born in Karachi, he was responsible for audio and video messages intended to attract recruits for al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent, which was formed this year amid growing competition with the Islamic State militant group in Iraq and Syria.
巴基斯坦官员称，法鲁克又名乌默尔·法鲁克(Umer Farooq)，是基地组织最新分支中一颗冉冉升起的明星。他出生于卡拉奇，负责发布音频和视频讯息，为基地组织印度次大陆分支吸引新成员。面对来自伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)武装组织日益严峻的竞争，基地组织于今年成立了印度次大陆分支。
While several officials based in the tribal belt said that Farooq had been targeted by U.S. drones, a senior military official in Rawalpindi issued an unusually firm denial of drone involvement.
尽管几名驻在部落地带的官员称，法鲁克是美国无人机袭击的目标。但拉瓦尔品第的一名军方高官发表了一份异常坚定的声明，否认了无人机的参与。
“I stress that no drone strike has taken place inside Pakistan today,” he said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was discussing classified military activities.
“我强调，巴基斯坦境内今天没有无人机袭击发生，”他说。因为讨论的是机密军事活动，他要求匿名。
In the past, some officials have attributed explosions to drone strikes that later turned out to be the result of Pakistani airstrikes or other military operations.
过去，部分官员会将爆炸归结于无人机袭击，但随后，相关爆炸被证实是巴基斯坦开展的空袭，或其他军事行动造成的。
Analysts said it was also possible that Pakistani military officials were simply seeking to distance themselves from a U.S. operation.
分析人士称，巴基斯坦军方官员也可能只是希望与美方的行动保持距离。
The successive attacks on militant bases in Waziristan, however, appeared to be part of a broader shift in the dynamics of the turbulent border areas. Previously strained relations among Pakistan, Afghanistan and the United States have visibly warmed in recent months, with the impending U.S. drawdown of forces in Afghanistan and the efforts of Afghanistan's new president, Ashraf Ghani.
然而，连续攻击武装分子位于瓦济里斯坦的基地，似乎是动荡不安的边境地区局势发生的更大转变的一部分。之前，巴基斯坦、阿富汗和美国之间关系紧张，但最近几个月，随着美国即将削减在阿富汗的驻军，以及阿富汗新任总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)的努力，它们之间的关系明显回暖。