BALTIMORE — Armored vehicles lined this battered city’s main thoroughfares and thousands of law enforcement officers and National Guard troops poured in to maintain order here on Tuesday, while residents toting brooms and trash bags turned out in droves to help keep the peace and clear broken glass and debris from a night of rioting and arson.
巴尔的摩——周二，这座遭受重创的城市的主要道路上排列着装甲车，并且涌入了数以千计的执法人员和国民警卫队员来维持秩序。大批居民拿着扫帚和垃圾袋，帮忙维持秩序，并清扫一整夜的骚乱和纵火行为所留下的碎玻璃和垃圾。
As a citywide curfew went into effect at 10 p.m., hundreds of people remained in the streets of Northwest Baltimore as religious leaders urged crowds to go home. There were scattered reports of arrests; a group hurled rocks and bricks at the police. The mood seemed tense, and many people, upset over the curfew, did not want to go home.
晚上10点，整座城市的宵禁令开始生效。尽管宗教领袖敦促人们回家，但仍有数百人留在巴尔的摩西北面的街道上。零星传来有人被捕的消息，还有一群人向警方投掷了石头和砖块。气氛似乎十分紧张，很多对宵禁感到不快的人不愿回家。
The Baltimore police, 17 minutes after the curfew began, said on Twitter that demonstrators in the city’s northwest quadrant were “becoming aggressive and throwing items at police officers.”
宵禁开始17分钟后，巴尔的摩警方在Twitter上表示，城区西北部的示威者“变得越来越有攻击性，并且在向警察投掷物品。”
“Our officers are going to use common sense to enforce the curfew,” Capt. J. Eric Kowalczyk, the Baltimore police spokesman, said. “What this is about is preserving the public peace.”
“我们的警员会运用常识来执行宵禁令，”巴尔的摩警方发言人J·埃里克·科瓦茨上尉(J. Eric Kowalczyk)说。“这样做是为了维护公共场所的和平。”
Earlier Tuesday, demonstrators marched through the streets, chanting, “All night, all day, we’re gonna fight for Freddie Gray!” — a reference to the 25-year-old black man whose death, from a spinal cord injury sustained in police custody, set off the unrest. As the group made its way downtown, it was noisy but peaceful.
周二早些时候，示威者走上街头高喊，“日日夜夜，我们将为弗雷迪·格雷(Freddie Gray)呐喊！” 格雷是一名25岁的黑人，在被警方羁押期间因脊髓受损而死亡，由此引发此次骚乱。当这群人向市中心进发时，虽然比较嘈杂，但仍属平和。
On Tuesday night, nearly 1,000 people gathered at the Empowerment Temple A.M.E. Church, where about 500 religious leaders of different faiths called for healing. Members of the audience spoke about a litany of problems plaguing the city and called for better policing, policies to create jobs, and better schools.
周二晚间，有近千人聚集在赋权圣殿非裔卫理公会(Empowerment Temple A.M.E. Church)。来自不同信仰的500名宗教领袖聚集在那里，呼吁弥合创伤。在场的观众列举了很多困扰这座城市的问题，并希望优化治安管理，出台政策创造就业机会，改进教育质量。
Throughout the day, people of all ages and races — growing to a crowd of more than 500 people — converged at the intersection of Pennsylvania and West North Avenues in blighted West Baltimore, where a CVS drugstore had been looted and burned. As rifle-toting officers in riot gear blocked the street, a group of men formed a human chain, putting themselves between officers and some angry young people.
当天，各个年龄段和族裔的人聚集在宾夕法尼亚大道和西北大道的交叉口，并慢慢壮大为逾500人的队伍。这里位于在巴尔的摩较为破败的西面，一家CVS药店遭到了洗劫和焚烧。随着身穿防暴装备的持枪警察封锁街道，一群男性组成了人墙，将警察与愤怒的年轻人隔开。
At one point, the crowd sang “Amazing Grace.” But tensions did flare briefly, when someone in the crowd threw bottles at the line of police officers.
人们一度唱起了《奇异恩典》(Amazing Grace)。但当人群中有人向警察组成的防线投掷瓶瓶罐罐时，爆发了短暂的对抗。
“It’s sad, this don’t make no sense,” said Clarence Cobb, 48, one of many neighborhood residents who, describing themselves as brokenhearted, came out to survey the wreckage and clean up. “It comes to a point where you just got to take pride in your own neighborhood. This makes us look real bad as a city.”
“这令人伤心，完全没有任何道理，”克拉伦斯·科布(Clarence Cobb)说。“大家得为自己的社区感到骄傲。这却让我们的城市看起来非常糟糕。”有很多社区居民称自己感到十分痛心，于是出来查看破坏情况并进行清理工作，48岁的科布就是其中之一。
Debate erupted over whether Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake had waited too long to ask Gov. Larry Hogan to send in the National Guard — and whether the city police, who confessed to being outnumbered and outflanked a day earlier, were underprepared.
人们展开了激烈争论，话题包括市长史蒂芬妮·罗林斯-布雷克(Stephanie Rawlings-Blake)是否等待了太长时间才去请求州长拉里·霍根(Larry Hogan)派国民警卫队来维护秩序，以及市里的警务部门是否准备不足。警方在头一天承认，他们人手不够，处于下风。
The authorities said that 15 buildings and 144 cars had been set on fire during Monday night’s chaos, which began in Northwest Baltimore’s Mondawmin neighborhood and spread to other pockets of the city after morning funeral services for Mr. Gray, who was eulogized with soaring gospel music and impassioned calls for justice and peace. The police made 235 arrests. Nineteen police officers were injured, but by Tuesday, all had been treated and released.
当局表示，共有15栋建筑物和144辆汽车在周一夜间的骚乱中被人纵火。在周一上午为格雷举行的葬礼上，人们用高昂的福音音乐和对正义和平的强烈呼吁对他表示了颂扬。葬礼结束后，骚乱在巴尔的摩西北面的蒙多明社区爆发，后来蔓延到了市里的其他地方。警方逮捕了235人。共有19名警察受伤，不过到周二的时候，他们均已得到治疗并出院。
With schools closed and camouflage-clad National Guard members patrolling the streets, Baltimore struggled to find some sense of normalcy. The Baltimore Orioles, forced by the unrest to cancel games Monday and Tuesday against the Chicago White Sox, announced that the teams would play Wednesday at Camden Yards — but without fans, because the ballpark would be closed to the public.
学校停课，身着迷彩服的国民警卫队员在街头巡逻，巴尔的摩难以寻觅到正常的感觉。巴尔的摩金莺队(Baltimore Orioles)因为此次骚乱而被迫取消了周一和周二与芝加哥白袜队(Chicago White Sox)的比赛，宣布两队将于周三在康登棒球场举行比赛——但届时将没有观众在场，因为场地不会对公众开放。
In Washington, President Obama, making his first public remarks on the crisis here, denounced the rioters as “criminals and thugs” and said there was “no excuse” for the violence. He sought to distinguish it from the largely peaceful demonstrations that have unfolded since Mr. Gray died on April 19. Speaking in the Rose Garden, Mr. Obama said that he understood people “want answers,” and that the Justice Department was working with local law enforcement to find out what happened to Mr. Gray.
在华盛顿，奥巴马总统首次对巴尔的摩危机发表公开评论，谴责肇事者为“罪犯和暴徒”，并称这些暴力行为“没有任何借口”。他试图把这场骚乱与4月19日格雷身亡以来大致和平的示威活动区别开来。奥巴马是在白宫玫瑰园发表此番讲话的。他说自己理解人们“想要答案”的心情，并表示司法部正在与当地执法部门合作，以查明格雷身上究竟发生了什么。
But, he said, “when individuals get crowbars and start prying open doors to loot, they’re not protesting, they’re not making a statement — they’re stealing. When they burn down a building, they’re committing arson.”
但是他说，“当有人拿着撬棍，开始撬开大门去打劫时，就不是在抗议，不是在表达某种观点——而是在偷窃。当他们放火烧毁一栋建筑时，就犯下了纵火罪。”
The police had begun gearing up for the violence Monday afternoon after word spread across social media of a call for high school students to “purge” — an apparent reference to the 2013 action horror movie “The Purge,” whose plot revolves around one night a year when, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., crime is legal and police, fire and medical emergency services are unavailable.
周一下午，警察已经开始为应对暴力活动做准备，因为社交媒体上广泛传播的消息呼吁高中生去进行“清除”——指的是2013年的动作恐怖片《人类清除计划》(The Purge)。该片的剧情围绕一年一度的特殊夜晚展开，即在当天，从早晨7点到晚上7点，犯罪都是合法行为，而且没有任何警务、消防和医疗急救服务提供。
The police said Tuesday that what they expected to be a demonstration by high school students had quickly evolved; of the 235 arrests, they said, just 31 were juveniles. They also said that the number of young people had swelled because the area is a hub for eight schools, and students had emerged from buses.
警方周二表示，他们预计的高中生示威活动迅速发展壮大。他们说，被捕的235人中只有31人是未成年人。他们还称，青年的人数之所以出现增加，是因为这片区域是八所学校所在的中心，学生们纷纷乘公交车而来。
“When we deployed our officers yesterday, we were deploying for a high school event,” Captain Kowalczyk, the police spokesman, told reporters here. “I don’t think there’s anyone that would expect us to deploy with automatic weapons and armored vehicles for 13-, 14- and 15-year olds.”
“昨天，当我们部署警员的时候，我们针对的是高中生的活动，”警方发言人科瓦茨告诉这里的记者。“我认为没有任何人会期待我们去部署自动武器和装甲车来对付十三四五岁的人。”
Most Baltimore officials, including Mayor Rawlings-Blake, had convened at the New Shiloh Baptist Church for Mr. Gray’s funeral, which let out shortly before the violence began. The mayor, saying the city had reacted “very swiftly,” defended herself.
包括市长罗林斯-布雷克在内的大多数巴尔的摩官员来到新西罗浸礼会教堂参加格雷的葬礼。葬礼结束后不久，就发生了暴力活动。市长为自己进行了辩解，表示市里的反应“非常迅速”。
“There’s always going to be armchair quarterbacks,” she said Tuesday, adding that she faced a “very delicate balancing act” and had to be careful about “not escalating and increasing the problem” by creating a militarized atmosphere that could further inflame tensions. That was the case in Ferguson, Mo., after the fatal police shooting of Michael Brown in August.
她在周二说，“总有人喜欢指手画脚。”她还表示，自己面临“非常微妙的平衡”，需要小心谨慎，“不能”通过创造或将进一步引爆矛盾的军事化氛围来“加剧问题，使它升级”。去年8月，迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)被警方击毙后，密苏里州的弗格森就出现了这种情况。
In death, Mr. Gray has taken his place along with Mr. Brown as a national symbol of police mistreatment of black men. His death set off a string of largely peaceful protests, although a march downtown did lead to scattered violence on Saturday night. But it renewed long-simmering tensions between residents of this majority black city and a police force with a history of aggressive, sometimes brutal, behavior.
死去的格雷和布朗一样，已经在全国范围内成为受警方虐待的黑人男性的代表。他的死亡引发了一系列大体和平的抗议，不过周六晚间市区的游行的确导致了一些零星暴力活动。然而，这件事重新点燃了该市居民与警方之间酝酿已久的冲突。该市人口以黑人为主，而警方早就存在好斗行为，有时还颇为残暴。
Six Baltimore officers have been suspended without pay, and the police are investigating Mr. Gray’s death. Police Commissioner Anthony W. Batts has said the results of the inquiry will be presented on Friday to the city prosecutor, who will determine whether to bring charges.
巴尔的摩的六名警员被无薪停职，警方也正在对格雷死亡事件展开调查。警察局长安东尼·W·巴茨(Anthony W. Batts)表示，他们将于周五向市里的检方递交调查结果，而检方将会决定是否提出指控。
Even as 2,000 National Guard troops and police from multiple states came in to secure the streets, more protests were planned; college students calling themselves City Bloc said they would march to City Hall on Wednesday “to make young people’s voices heard over the many people characterizing the riots as the only way people are responding to the death of Freddie Gray.”
就在2000名国民警卫队员及多个州派出的警察前来维护街头秩序时，人们计划开展更多抗议活动。那些自称是“城市联盟”(City Bloc)的大学生表示，他们周三会游行至市政厅，“让年轻人的声音，盖过将暴乱定义为应对弗雷迪·格雷之死唯一途径的那帮为数不少的人的声音。”
Throughout Tuesday, state troopers in riot gear and National Guards members patrolled the Inner Harbor tourist district and around downtown Baltimore hotels.
周二全天，身穿防暴装备的州警和国民警卫队员在巴尔的摩内港旅游区及市中心酒店周围巡逻。
Three hundred law enforcement officers from states including Pennsylvania and New Jersey, as well as the District of Columbia, arrived by nightfall. Governor Hogan said he had been in touch with the state’s insurance commissioner and the Small Business Administration about financial assistance to business owners who incurred losses.
300名来自宾夕法尼亚和新泽西等州及哥伦比亚特区的执法人员于傍晚抵达。州长霍根表示，他与州里的保险事务委员及小企业管理局(Small Business Administration)一直保持着联系，商讨为遭受损失的商户提供经济援助的问题。
As the city seeks to rebuild, some in Baltimore say the problems here run much deeper than Mr. Gray’s death and the conduct of the police.
随着巴尔的摩寻求重建，一些当地人称，这里的问题不仅限于格雷之死和警方的行为，而是要严重得多。
Near the burned-out CVS, Robert Wilson, a college student who went to high school in Baltimore, said: “With the riots, we’re not trying to act like animals or thugs. We’re just angry at the surroundings, like this is all that is given to us, and we’re tired of this, like nobody wants to wake up and see broken-down buildings. They take away the community centers, they take away our fathers, and now we have traffic lights that don’t work, we have houses that are crumbling, falling down.”
在被烧毁的那家CVS商店附近，在巴尔的摩上过高中的大学生罗伯特·威尔逊(Robert Wilson)表示，“爆发了骚乱，不是说我们想要像禽兽或暴徒那样行事。我们只是对周围的环境感到愤怒，好像这就是赋予我们的一切，我们对这感到厌倦，似乎没人愿意清醒过来，看到周围这些破房子。他们关掉了社区中心，带走了我们的父亲，现在我们的红绿灯坏了，房子破了，随时会倒。