KARACHI, Pakistan — In a ferocious terrorist attack that stretched into Monday morning, gunmen infiltrated Pakistan’s largest international airport, waging an extended firefight against security forces in Karachi, damaging planes and shaking the country’s already fragile sense of security.
巴基斯坦卡拉奇——恐怖分子猛烈的袭击持续到了周一上午。枪手在卡拉奇潜入了巴基斯坦最大的国际机场，与安全部队展开了大规模交火，损坏了飞机，也动摇了这个国家原本就脆弱不堪的安全感。
Hospital officials said the gunmen had killed at least 10 people, including nine members of the security forces and one airport employee. Huge explosions and fireballs were reported at several points during the fighting, and local news outlets said at least two planes had caught fire.
医院官员称，枪手至少杀死了10人，其中包括九名安全部队成员和一名机场员工。据称，交火期间，数个地点发出了巨大的爆炸声并燃起火球。当地新闻机构称，至少两架飞机起火。
Karachi police officials said that at least four of the attackers had been killed, but the military reported that several others were still fighting, albeit contained in one area of the airport grounds away from the commercial passenger terminals. Flights continued to be canceled or diverted away from Karachi for hours.
卡拉奇警方表示，至少四名袭击者已被击毙，但军方称，还有几名袭击者仍在作战，不过他们已经被围困在机场地面上远离民航客运航站楼的一块区域。在几个小时的时间里，不断有航班被取消，或改变航向避开卡拉奇。
The attack began late Sunday night, when as many as 10 attackers made it past security checkpoints near the airport’s old terminal, mostly used for cargo or private flights for senior government officials and business leaders. Some news reports said the men wore identification saying they were members of the Airport Security Force.
袭击从周日深夜开始，当时，多达10名袭击者通过了机场旧航站楼附近的安全检查，在该航站楼停靠的主要是货机，或政府高管和商界领袖的专机。一些新闻报道称，袭击者佩戴了证件，显示自己是机场安保队的成员。
Hurling grenades and unleashing automatic weapons fire, the attackers at least initially moved toward the nearby web of runways as they fought, according to news and witness reports. Several planes were said to be damaged or aflame, though the companies they belonged to could not be confirmed.
根据新闻报道及目击者透露，袭击者投掷手榴弹，并用自动武器开火袭击，至少在袭击开始时，曾逼近附近的跑道。据称，几架飞机被毁坏或起火，但无法确认这些飞机属于哪些航空公司。
“The target appears to be to create panic and damage the fleet,” said one government official, who said that spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing attack.
一名政府官员表示，“他们的目的似乎是制造恐慌，损毁机群。”由于讨论的是正在进行的袭击，这名官员要求匿名。
A spokesman at Jinnah Hospital in Karachi, Dr. Seemi Jamali, said that in addition to the dead, at least 16 people had been seriously injured, and all the city’s hospitals were on alert.
卡拉奇金纳医院(Jinnah Hospital)的发言人泽米·贾迈利(Seemi Jamali)博士表示，除了多人死亡之外，至少还有16人受了重伤，该市所有的医院都已经做好准备。
It was unclear who was behind the attack, and there was no immediate claim of responsibility, though initial suspicion fell on the Pakistani Taliban or one of its splinter groups.
目前尚不清楚谁是幕后策划者，还没有人宣称对此次袭击事件负责，但人们初步怀疑，发动此次袭击的是巴基斯坦塔利班(Taliban)或该组织的某个分支。
A tentative peace process with the Taliban, begun by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s government in February, has disintegrated in recent weeks. The militant group has split into at least two opposed factions, in part over disagreements about whether to negotiate with the government. The Pakistani Army renewed a campaign of airstrikes against the militants in North Waziristan two weeks ago, and factions of the Taliban were believed to be behind a deadly attack on a high-security military complex near Rawalpindi last week.
今年2月，巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)领导的政府开始尝试与塔利班展开和谈，但是这项谈判最近几周开始破裂。这个激进团体已经分裂成了至少两个对立的派别，部分原因是，对于是否要与政府开展谈判存在分歧。两周前，巴基斯坦军方对北瓦济里斯坦(North Waziristan)的武装分子展开新一轮空袭。上周，拉瓦尔品第附近一处安保严密的军事建筑受到了致命袭击，据信这起袭击应该归咎于塔利班旗下的派系。
Karachi, Pakistan’s commercial hub and biggest city, has in recent years been increasingly contested by the Taliban and other militants. Many have moved in from the country’s northwestern tribal regions and have become embroiled in the chaotic and violent political turf battles that have wracked the city.
近年来，卡拉奇作为巴基斯坦的商业中心和最大城市，频频受到塔利班及其他武装组织的袭击。许多袭击者都是从巴基斯坦西北部的部落区域来到这里，参加争夺政治地盘的战斗。这些混乱而残暴的战斗使这座城市备受摧残。
In a demonstration of the far-flung security crises that beset Pakistan, at least 23 Shiites were reported killed in a coordinated suicide bombing in a remote part of Baluchistan Province on the border with Iran. The Associated Press quoted provincial officials as saying the attack had come as the victims were returning from a visit to Iran.
据报道，在俾路支省一个与伊朗接壤的偏远地区，至少有23名什叶派在一起有组织的自杀式爆炸袭击中身亡，这表明巴基斯坦正面临着广泛的安全危机。美联社(The Associated Press)援引该省官员的话说，袭击发生在受害者从伊朗回国的时候。
Although the Taliban have frequently been behind attacks on Shiites and other religious and ethnic minorities in Pakistan, such violence in Baluchistan has more often been waged by other sectarian militias like Lashkar-e-Janghvi. Human rights officials have accused Pakistan’s military of aiding or turning a blind eye toward those groups, as they are considered its allies in a long war against Baluch separatists.
虽然塔利班曾多次主使针对什叶派，以及巴基斯坦其他少数宗教派别和少数族群的袭击，但是俾路支省发生的这种暴力事件，通常由其他宗派武装组织，如“坚格维军”(Lashkar-e-Jhangvi)实施。从事人权工作的官员指责，巴基斯坦军方对这些组织提供了援助或视而不见，因为在抗击俾路支分离主义者的长期斗争中，这些组织被认为是军方的盟友。
The attack on the Karachi international airport was the most audacious militant strike in the city since the coordinated attack against the Mehran naval base there in May 2011. At least 10 members of the security forces were killed in the attack, which also destroyed two surveillance planes provided to Pakistan by the United States and deeply embarrassed the country’s military.
卡拉奇国际机场这次受到的袭击是自2011年5月，当地的迈赫兰海军基地(Mehran)遇袭以来，最严重的一次有组织的武装袭击。当时至少有10名安全部队人员在袭击中遇难，该次袭击还摧毁了美国提供给巴基斯坦的两架侦察机，使该国军方非常尴尬。
In December 2012, Taliban militants struck the airport in Peshawar, the main city in Pakistan’s northwest, killing seven people. That attack was suspected of being aimed at a military facility inside the airport’s boundaries.
2012年12月，塔利班武装人员曾对巴基斯坦西北部主要城市白沙瓦的机场发动袭击，共造成7人死亡。有人怀疑，那次攻击的目标是机场区域的一处军事设施。