LONDON — When he leaves his post on Friday, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, the inscrutable Pakistani Army chief and former spymaster, will end a nearly decade-long chapter as the focus of American fears and frustrations in Pakistan, the reluctant partner in a contentious and often ill-tempered strategic dance.
伦敦——当神秘莫测的巴基斯坦陆军总参谋长、情报组织的前首脑阿什法克·帕尔韦兹·卡亚尼上将(Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani)于周五离职时，一个长达近10年的时代将画上了句号。他是美国在巴基斯坦的忧虑感和挫败感的源头，在美巴两国间分歧不断、坎坷不平的战略交往中，他一直是不情愿的伙伴。
Suspicious American officials frequently accused him, and the 600,000-strong army he led, of double-dealing and bad faith: supporting the Afghan Taliban, allying with militant groups who bombed embassies and bases, and sheltering Osama bin Laden.
疑心重重的美国官员经常指责他，以及他所领导的60万大军两面三刀、不守信用：支持阿富汗塔利班，与轰炸使领馆和军事基地的激进组织为伍，庇护奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)。
Those accusations were made in private, usually, but exploded into the open in late 2011 when Adm. Mike Mullen, the American military chief who sought to befriend General Kayani over golf and dinners, issued an angry tirade to Congress about Pakistani duplicity.
这些指责通常是私下提出的，但2011年底在公开场合曝光。当时，参谋长联席会议主席、海军上将迈克尔·马伦(Adm. Michael Mullen)向国会发表了一通言辞激烈的长篇演说，谴责巴基斯坦的欺骗行为。马伦之前曾试图通过打高尔夫和共进晚餐来与卡亚尼拉近关系。
The taciturn General Kayani weathered those accusations with a sangfroid that left both allies and enemies guessing about what, or whom, he knew. But few doubted that he nursed grievances, too — about C.I.A. covert operations, the humiliating raid that killed Bin Laden, and perceived American arrogance and inconstancy.
面对这些指责，沉默寡言的卡亚尼不动声色，任凭盟友和敌人猜测他掌握了什么情况，又认识些什么人。不过，很少有人怀疑卡亚尼心中也怀有种种不满——中央情报局(CIA)的秘密行动、猎杀本拉登的羞辱性突袭行动，以及巴基斯坦人感受到的，美国的傲慢和反覆无常。
General Kayani, 61, steps down with those arguments still lingering. And reckoning with his legacy exposes a cold truth at the heart of the turbulent American-Pakistani relationship: that after years of diplomatic effort, and billions of dollars in aid, the countries’ aims and methods remain fundamentally opposed — particularly when it comes to the endgame next door in Afghanistan.
61岁的卡亚尼离职之际，这些争论仍然在继续。对他的政治遗产的清点，揭示了动荡的美巴关系核心中的一个冷酷事实：经过多年的外交努力，外加数十亿美元的援助，两国的目标及手法在根本上仍是对立的，特别是涉及如何在邻国阿富汗收拾残局的时候。
“We have almost no strategic convergences with Pakistan, at any level,” admitted a senior American defense official. “You’ll never change that, and it’s naïve to think we can do it with an appeal to the war on terror.”
“我们与巴基斯坦在战略上几乎毫无共通之处，无论在哪个层面上，”一名美国高级国防官员说道。“永远不可能改变这一点。如果认为我们能够通过反恐战争的诉求达成一致的话，那就太天真了。”
Seen through Pakistani eyes, however, General Kayani was a more understandable, even positive, force. Despite his personal antipathy for the country’s civilian leadership, he restrained army meddling in politics and showed greater tolerance for criticism. After the country’s first successful completion of a democratic election cycle, Pakistanis can dare to imagine that a long era of military coups might be over.
然而，在巴基斯坦人眼中，卡亚尼是一个比较容易理解，甚至是相当正面的人物。尽管他个人非常厌恶该国的文职领导层，但他遏制军队干政，并对批评表现得较为大度。在成功度过首个民主选举周期后，巴基斯坦人可以大胆想象，漫长的军事政变时代可能已经终结了。
Further, he was at least partly successful in refocusing the army’s monomaniacal attention on India, the old enemy, toward a new threat posed by the militants lurking in the country’s remote areas.
此外，在调整巴基斯坦军队的注意力方面，卡亚尼至少取得了部分成功。之前，该国军队过于关注于印度这一个老对手，现在则开始转向在国内偏远地区出没的激进分子带来的新威胁。
Still, in other respects, Pakistan’s bullying military class has remained unchanged, particularly in its dismal record on rights abuses. General Kayani’s soldiers and spies have prosecuted a dirty war against separatists in Baluchistan Province, cultivated contacts with sectarian militias, and intimidated and bloodied rights campaigners and journalists.
不过，在其他方面，巴基斯坦专横的军队阶层依然旧习不改，特别是在践踏人权方面的糟糕记录。卡亚尼手下的士兵和特工对俾路支斯坦省的分离主义者发动了不择手段的战争，与宗派民兵组织建立了联系，还恐吓并伤害维权人士和记者。
For all that, his authority was never seriously challenged. “He’s one of the most powerful generals Pakistan has ever had,” said Vali R. Nasr, the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
尽管如此，卡亚尼的权威从未遭受严峻挑战。约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)的院长瓦利·R·纳斯尔(Vali R. Nasr)表示，“他是巴基斯坦有史以来最具影响力的将领之一。”
The Taliban’s drive to destroy the security forces and central government shook the Pakistani military’s jihadist sympathies, through unprecedented violence: the beheading of soldiers, the assassination of senior generals, and even suicide bombings against the feared military spy agency, the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, or ISI.
塔利班摧毁安全部队及中央政府的攻势，致使巴基斯坦军队中对圣战分子的同情产生了动摇。塔利班开展了史无前例的暴力行动：将士兵斩首，刺杀高级将领，甚至还通过自杀式爆炸袭击令人胆寒的军方情报机关——巴基斯坦三军情报局(Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate)。
After a wave of attacks that included a militant assault that drove within a few hundred feet of his personal office in the army’s headquarters in Rawalpindi, General Kayani launched a successful military offensive in the Swat Valley in 2009. In driving out the wing of the Pakistani Taliban that ruled the area, he dusted off the army’s creaky, India-centric military doctrine, and infused a sense of modern counterinsurgency thinking.
距离卡亚尼本人在拉瓦尔品第陆军总部的办公室几百英尺以内的地方，发生了包括武装攻击在内的一系列袭击事件。之后，卡亚尼于2009年在斯瓦特山谷发起军事打击行动，并取得成功。通过驱逐统治该地区的巴基斯坦塔利班势力，卡亚尼摒弃了巴军方以印度为中心的老旧军事原则，并注入了一种现代的反叛乱思维方式。
And he publicly acknowledged the country’s Frankenstein problem: that jihadi groups which the army had once nurtured to fight Indian interests in Kashmir and elsewhere had become a menace to Pakistan’s stability.
他公开承认该国危及自身的问题：该国军队曾支持圣战组织，目的是打击印度在克什米尔及其他地方的利益，这些组织已经成为一个威胁巴基斯坦稳定性的因素。
“We as a nation must stand united against this threat,” he said in a widely acclaimed speech in August 2012.
他在2012年8月发表讲话称，“全国上下必须团结一致，应对这个威胁。”此次讲话受到广泛好评。
But the army only partly embraced this conversion, to the immense frustration of American officials, especially Admiral Mullen.
不过，巴基斯坦军方只是部分上接纳了这种转变，这让美国官员颇为苦恼，尤其是马伦上将。
With General Kayani, it came down to a confidence vote on the future of Afghanistan. He and his staff did not believe American assurances of a stable Afghanistan in which India, Pakistan’s main preoccupation, would be excluded, so he hedged his bets by refusing to turn the army’s guns on the Haqqanis, American and Pakistani officials said.
从卡亚尼的角度看来，一切都在于对阿富汗的未来是否抱有信心。美巴两国的官员称，他本人及身边的参谋都不相信，美国在保障阿富汗稳定的过程中不会牵扯印度这个巴基斯坦的心腹大患，因此他拒绝让旗下的部队对付哈卡尼网络(Haqqani)，从而给自己留一个后手。
“The problem with our Afghanistan strategy is that everything about it was anathema to Pakistan,” said Mr. Nasr, who previously served in the Obama administration. “You can’t have a partner who sees everything you do as a threat to his own interests.”
“我们阿富汗战略的问题在于，每一项都让巴基斯坦深恶痛绝，”曾供职于奥巴马政府的纳斯尔说。“你的伙伴把你做的每件事都当成对其自身利益的威胁，那可不行。”
Those contradictions unraveled most spectacularly in 2011, a year of serial crisis that plunged relations with Pakistan to their nadir: a C.I.A. contractor gunned down two men in Lahore, a Navy SEAL raid killed Bin Laden a few miles from the military’s headquarters just days after General Kayani had spoken there, and American aircraft mistakenly killed 24 Pakistani soldiers on the border.
种种矛盾在2011年爆发得最为彻底。当时的一系列危机让美巴两国的关系跌至谷底：中情局的一名承包商雇员在拉合尔枪杀了两名男性；海豹突击队(SEAL)的突袭击毙了本·拉登，事发地距巴基斯坦军方司令部仅几英里，而且卡亚尼本人几天前刚在那里发表过演说；美军战机在边境线附近误杀了24名巴军士兵。
General Kayani, under pressure from other generals, closed a C.I.A. drone base within Pakistan, froze military cooperation and temporarily closed NATO supply lines into Afghanistan. But through it all, American and Pakistani officials said, he kept the relationship going — even though it cost him politically within the angry Pakistani officer corps.
在其他将领的压力之下，卡亚尼关闭了巴基斯坦境内的一处中情局无人机基地、冻结了双方的军事合作，并且暂时封锁了通往阿富汗的北约补给线。不过，两国官员称，即便有这样的举动，他还是保证了双边关系的延续，尽管这让他在巴基斯坦军人的怒火中付出了政治代价。
Now, after an extended term as army chief, he is retiring at a time of institutional flux in Pakistan. President Asif Ali Zardari stepped down in September; the country’s mercurial chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, leaves next month.
现如今，经过延长的陆军总参谋长任期，他将在巴基斯坦人事密集变动的时期离职。阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里总统(Asif Ali Zardari)于今年9月下台；反复无常的首席大法官伊夫蒂哈尔·穆罕默德·乔杜里(Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry)也将于下月离任。
Whether his policy of militant restraint endures will depend partly on his successor — a choice that reflected a rare defeat for General Kayani, when Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif ignored his recommendation in favor of the new army chief, Lt. Gen. Raheel Sharif.
至于卡亚尼的军事克制政策能否延续下去，则将部分取决于他的继任者——新的陆军参谋长拉希勒·谢里夫中将(Lt. Gen. Raheel Sharif)。这一任命折射出了卡亚尼罕有的失利，因为总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)没有采纳他推荐的心仪人选。
But for all his impenetrable airs, one thing seems clear. Pakistan’s core strategic doctrine — distrust of India, and an accompanying insistence on exerting control through proxies in Afghanistan — is likely to remain unchanged. It predated General Kayani’s rise to power. And in the end, his legacy may be to be seen as the general who protected that doctrine, for better and worse, through the stormy years of American involvement in the region.
不过，虽说卡亚尼包裹在重重迷雾中，有一件事似乎很清晰。巴基斯坦的核心战略信条很可能保持不变，那就是不信任印度，而辅助手段则是坚持通过在阿富汗的势力间接地施加控制力。这种信条早在卡亚尼步步高升之前就已成型。到最后，在人们看来，他的政治遗产或许是守护了这一信条，无论如何，让它承受住了美国介入该地区的风风雨雨。
“He can say, ‘I survived the Americans,’ ” Mr. Nasr said.
“他可以说，‘我扛住了美国，’”纳斯尔表示。