HUSSAIN KHAN WALA, Pakistan — Pakistani officials have initiated an investigation into allegations that a gang of men sexually abused more than 200 children and sold videos of the abuse.
巴基斯坦侯赛因汗瓦剌——巴基斯坦官员对一些男子展开了调查。他们被控性侵200多名儿童，并且销售性侵视频。
The accusations have rocked the country, drawing the attention and condemnation of human rights activists and politicians in a case that involved subjects long considered taboo here.
这些指控震动了全国，也吸引了人权活动人士和政治人物的关注和谴责。该案件涉及的问题，长期以来在这里被视为禁忌。
At least 280 children under the age of 14 from three villages in eastern Punjab Province were said to have been subjected to sexual abuse by a gang of 15 men, who made videos to extort money from the children and their parents. Seven of the accused have been arrested, police officials said Sunday.
在巴基斯坦东部旁遮普省的三个村庄，据称有15名男子性侵了至少280名14岁以下儿童，他们还拍摄了视频，来向孩子及其父母勒索钱财。警方周日透露，该团伙中已有7人落网。
The accusations of abuse started trickling out last month as victims began to report it to the police, and last Tuesday, hundreds of residents staged a protest, accusing the police and local politicians of protecting the gang members and ignoring the accusations. Some of the protesters clashed with the police, and dozens of people were injured, including several police officers.
上个月，陆续有受害者向警方报案，性侵事件的规模开始逐渐显露。上周二，数百名的居民举行抗议，指责警方和当地政治人物包庇团伙成员，忽视这些指控。一些抗议者与警方发生冲突，导致数十人受伤，其中包括几名警员。
On Saturday, details of the abuse were carried by The Nation, a Lahore-based English-language newspaper, which reported that the gang members had drugged and intoxicated their victims, some as young as 6, and had recorded hundreds of videos. Some of the children stole jewelry and money from their parents to pay the men to stop them from making the videos public, according to the reports. The newspaper said many of the videos were sold to buyers and pornographic websites overseas.
周六，总部设在拉合尔的英文报纸《国家》(The Nation)披露了性侵事件的细节，报道称一些受害者年仅6岁，团伙成员给受害者下药麻醉他们，并录制了数百则视频。有报道称，一些孩子从父母那里偷来珠宝和钱交给团伙，以免他们公开视频。该报称，很多视频都被出售给了买家和海外色情网站。
The coverage prompted an outpouring of outrage on social media, especially on Twitter.
这篇报道在社交媒体上引发了愤怒，尤其是在Twitter上。
Pedophilia remains a taboo subject in Pakistani society. Human rights activists say that child abuse is rampant in the country and that homeless children, as many as 1.5 million according to some estimates, are particularly vulnerable.
在巴基斯坦社会，恋童癖仍然是一个禁忌话题。人权活动人士说，该国性侵儿童的情况很猖獗，无家可归的儿童特别容易受侵害。据一些人估计，巴基斯坦无家可归的儿童多达150万。
However, provincial officials in Punjab played down the scale of the abuse and said that only seven cases had been registered by the police so far and that they were in possession of only 30 videos.
然而，旁遮普省的官员淡化了性侵事件的规模，说警方迄今只立案七宗，只掌握了30则视频。
Most of the victims and gang members are from Hussain Khan Wala, a dusty farming village in the Kasur District of Punjab Province, near the border with India and about an hour’s drive from Lahore, the provincial capital.
受害者和团伙成员大多来自侯赛因汗瓦剌，这个尘土飞扬的农业村靠近印巴边境，属于旁遮普省的卡苏尔区，距离该省省会拉合尔大约一小时车程。
“This group was active since 2007 when they were school students,” Shahzad Sultan, a senior police official said in an interview on Sunday, referring to the suspects. He said most of the videos involved consensual sex between teenagers.
“这个团伙从2007年开始作案，当时他们还在学校读书，”周日，警队高层沙赫扎德·苏丹(Shahzad Sultan)在采访中谈到犯罪嫌疑人时说。他表示，大多数视频都是青少年之间两厢情愿的性行为。
Local police officials say the allegations became public only after a land dispute arose between two rival groups in the village. Mr. Sultan said that the videos of consensual sex were being used now as part of an effort by one party in the dispute to discredit or intimidate members of the other group with accusations of child abuse. “The videos are old,” he said.
当地警方的官员称，村里两个敌对团体之间出现土地纠纷后，相关指控才得以公开。苏丹称，现在纠纷中的一方用录下来的两厢情愿的性行为视频，来败坏对方成员的名声，或是用性侵儿童的指控来恐吓对方。“视频是以前拍摄的，”他说。
The man identified as the main suspect, Haseem Amir, said in an interview that his uncle had bought the land under dispute now and that members of another family who opposed the sale were now accusing him and his friends of child abuse.
被指认是主要嫌疑人的男子哈西姆·阿米尔(Haseem Amir)在接受采访时称，纠纷涉及的土地是自己的叔父买下来的。反对这笔交易的另一个家族的成员，现在指控他和朋友性侵儿童。
The seven suspects who were arrested are ages 16 to 25. Mr. Amir, 25, denied that he was involved in blackmail and extortion. “We made some mistakes while we were teenagers in school,” he said, alluding to the sex videos. “We used to record videos and share with one another just for fun.”
被捕的七名嫌疑人年龄在16至25岁之间。25岁的阿米尔否认自己参与了敲诈勒索。“我们十几岁时还在上学，犯过一些错误，”他暗指性视频。“我们过去会录制视频，彼此分享，但只是为了好玩。”
But Muhammad Ashraf, the father of one of the accusers, who filed a complaint to the police on Sunday, said his son, 20, was abused as a student five years ago, but did not tell the family at the time.
但其中一名原告的父亲穆罕默德·阿什拉夫(Muhammad Ashraf)称，他儿子今年20岁，但五年前还是个学生时，儿子遭到性侵，只是当时没有告诉家人。阿什拉夫已在周日向警方报案。
After video clips surfaced about two months ago, “we came to know about it,” Mr. Ashraf said.
阿什拉夫称，大约两个月前，视频片段浮出水面，“我们才知道”。
“My son was disturbed and sad,” Mr. Ashraf said. “He asked us to lodge the case. He used to steal money and some valuables, and says he used to give it to the blackmailers.”
“我儿子感到不安，很伤心，”阿什拉夫说。“他让我们正式起诉。他过去偷过钱和一些贵重物品，说都给了敲诈他的人。”
In one video, a boy is seen crying after he is sexually abused, and tries to cover his face with a hand to hide from the camera. In another video, a man orders a boy to smile as he films him while the boy is abused.
在其中一段视频中，一名男孩在被性侵后大哭，并试图用一只手遮住脸，以躲避镜头。在另一段视频中，一名男子在拍摄一个男孩遭受性侵的过程中，命令男孩要面带微笑。
A senior police official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of offending local sensibilities, said the case involved a “mixture of social deviants” and behaviors that reflected changes in Pakistani society. “Such acts of teenage homosexuality are becoming common practice,” the officer said.
警方的另一名高官表示，此案涉及的“社会偏常者”和行为，反映了巴基斯坦社会发生的变化。“青少年之间的这种同性性行为正在变得普遍，”这名官员透露。因为害怕伤害当地人的感情，他要求匿名。