A grand jury in Baltimore has indicted six police officers on homicide and assault charges in the death of Freddie Gray, who was fatally injured last month in police custody, the city’s chief prosecutor said Thursday.
巴尔的摩市首席检察官周四表示，针对弗雷迪·格雷(Freddie Gray)上个月遭警方拘押期间受到致命伤害一案，大陪审团已经以杀人罪和伤害罪起诉六名警察。
The charges announced by Marilyn J. Mosby, the state’s attorney for Baltimore City, do not differ greatly from those she initially filed against the officers. But getting a grand jury to agree and deliver an indictment is a milestone in a case that has generated national attention.
巴尔的摩市州派检察长玛丽莲·J·莫斯比(Marilyn J. Mosby)所公布的罪名，和她一开始对这些警察的指控没有太大差别。但在一个举国瞩目的案件中，让大陪审团同意起诉并付诸行动，仍然堪称里程碑式的进展。
The case of Mr. Gray, 25 — who was arrested and injured on April 12 and died a week later — was one in a string of recent encounters around the country in which young black men have died at the hands of the police, prompting protests, arguments about the role of race in law enforcement and claims that police practices are deeply flawed.
25岁的格雷4月12日遭到逮捕并受到伤害，一星期后死亡。最近，美国各地频频发生这类黑人青年男子死于警方之手的案件，引发了公众的抗议以及关于种族因素在警察执法过程中起到何种作用的讨论，有人认为警方的做法存在极大缺陷。
After Mr. Gray’s death, the Justice Department began a civil rights investigation into the Baltimore Police Department.
司法部(Justice Department)在格雷死亡后对巴尔的摩市警察局(Baltimore Police Department)展开了民权调查。
Rioting and looting broke out in Baltimore after Mr. Gray’s funeral. For several days, the city was under curfew and was patrolled by National Guard troops.
格雷的葬礼过后，巴尔的摩发生了骚乱，有人趁机抢劫。一连数日，这座城市都在实施宵禁，街头还有国民警卫队(National Guard)的士兵巡逻。
Ms. Mosby made no comment on the indictment, except to say that it was normal for a list of charges to evolve along with a criminal case. She declined to take questions.
莫斯比未就警察遭到起诉一事发表评论，只是说：在一起刑事案件的进程中，罪名发生变化是正常的。她拒绝回答问题。
Lawyers for the six officers, who are free on bail, have called the prosecution’s case weak, filed for dismissal of the charges and argued that Ms. Mosby has conflicts of interest and should be removed from the case.
六名警察已经交保获释，其律师认为检方陈述的理由站不住脚，已经提请撤销指控，他们还指出，莫斯比与该案有厉害关系，应该回避。
Mr. Gray was arrested after running from officers, who found a knife in his pocket that they said was illegal — Ms. Mosby later said it was not — and arrested him and called a police van to transport him. By the time the van delivered him to a police station, Mr. Gray had suffered catastrophic damage to his spine and was not breathing.
格雷之所以被捕，是因为警察在他口袋里发现了一把被他们定性为非法的刀具，但莫斯比后来说那并不是非法刀具。警察将试图逃跑的格雷抓获，并叫来了一辆押送警车。等到格雷被警车拉到警察局时，其脊柱已经遭到重创，呼吸也已停止。
Officials have said the injury probably occurred during that ride.
警察称，格雷可能是在乘坐警车期间受伤的。
In the indictment, as in the initial charges Ms. Mosby announced May 1, Officer Caesar R. Goodson Jr., who was driving the van, faces the most serious charge: second-degree “depraved heart” murder, which carries a penalty of up to 30 years in prison.
跟莫斯比最初在5月1日提出指控时一样，驾驶警车的警员小凯撒·R·古德森(Caesar R. Goodson Jr.)面对的起诉罪名最为严重：二级“极端轻率”谋杀罪，最高可判30年监禁。
Officer Goodson, Officer William G. Porter, Lt. Brian Rice and Sgt. Alicia White were indicted on a manslaughter charge, with a maximum 10-year sentence — also unchanged from the earlier charges.
警员古德森、警员威廉·G·波特(William G. Porter)、警督布莱恩·赖斯 (Brian Rice)以及警司艾丽西亚·怀特(Alicia White)的罪名都有过失杀人一项，最高可判10年监禁——这一点也跟一开始时一样。
All six officers, including Officer Edward M. Nero and Officer Garrett E. Miller, still face second-degree assault charges, also punishable by up to 10 years, though some counts have been dropped. All six were indicted on a charge of reckless endangerment, a crime that was not included in the earlier charges, and misconduct in office, as well.
尽管有些指控已经被撤销，但包括警员爱德华·M·奈罗(Edward M. Nero)和警员嘉利特·E·米勒(Garrett E. Miller)在内，六名警察均被控犯有伤害罪，该项罪名对应的最高刑期也是10年。另外，六名警察均被控危害他人安全和玩忽职守，危害他人安全罪是此次新添加的一项罪名。