PESHAWAR, Pakistan — A suicide attack on a historic Christian church in northwestern Pakistan killed at least 75 people on Sunday in one of the deadliest attacks on the Christian minority in Pakistan in years.
巴基斯坦白沙瓦——巴基斯坦西南部一座历史悠久的基督教教堂在周日遭到自杀性袭击，至少75人死亡，这是在巴基斯坦发生的针对基督教少数民族的袭击事件中，多年来最严重的一次。
The attack occurred as worshipers left the All Saints Church in the old quarter of the regional capital, Peshawar, after a service on Sunday morning. Up to 600 worshipers had attended the service and were leaving to receive free food being distributed on the lawn outside when two explosions ripped through the crowd.
这起袭击事件发生在该地区的首府白沙瓦老城中的一个圣公会教堂，当时周日上午的礼拜活动刚结束。有近600名信教者参加了礼拜活动，他们刚走出教堂，到外面的草地上领取免费发放的食物，就在此刻，人群中发生了两次爆炸。
Dozens of people were killed and more than 100 wounded, said Akhtar Ali Shah, the home secretary of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.
开伯尔-普赫图赫瓦省内政部负责人阿赫塔尔·阿里·沙阿(Akhtar Ali Shah)说，有几十人死亡，100多人受伤。
The death toll continued to rise as rescue workers sifted through the damaged church property, said Hamid Ullah, a rescue worker with Al Khidmat Foundation, a rescue service operated by the Jamaat-e-Islami political party. He said his team had recovered 75 bodies.
伊斯兰大会党(Jamaat-e-Islami)运行的救援组织阿尔海德马特基金会(Al Khidmat Foundation)的一名救援人员哈米德·乌拉(Hamid Ullah)说，随着救援人员在被炸毁的教堂里进行搜索，死亡人数仍在继续增加。他说他所在的救援队已经找到了75具尸体。
The dead included women, children and two Muslim police officers who had been posted outside the church. Witness reported scenes of mayhem as rescue workers ferried victims from the church, which witnesses said was scattered with body parts, shrapnel and bloodied clothing.
死者中有妇女、儿童还有两名在教堂外站岗的穆斯林警察。目击者称，现场一片混乱，救援人员把受害者运送出教堂，教堂里散落着人体部位、弹片和血迹斑斑的衣服。
On Sunday afternoon, the bodies of 45 victims were placed in coffins and moved to the nearby Saint John’s Church, the oldest church in the city.
周日下午，45名受害者的尸体被装进棺材，运到附近的圣约翰教堂，这是该城最古老的教堂。
The coffins were placed next to one another in the church playground as dozens of grieving relatives and mourners gathered around. The mood was somber and angry.
这些棺材被依次放在教堂的空地上，几十名悲痛的家属和哀悼者围在周围。人们的情绪沉重且愤怒。
A large contingent of police officers was deployed outside the church, and mourners were allowed to enter the compound after a thorough security check. Ambulances were allowed to enter the compound one by one as dead bodies were then placed in vehicles to take them to the morgue.
教堂外部署了很多警察，哀悼者在经过全面安检之后被允许进入教堂。救护车被允许一辆一辆地驶入，之后尸体被放在车上运往太平间。
The police said it was not clear whether the attack was the work of a lone attacker or of two suicide bombers. Muhammad Ilyas, a senior officer in Peshawar, said it was more likely that a lone suicide bomber had first thrown a hand grenade before detonating his explosives.
警方称还不清楚这次袭击是一个还是有两个携带炸弹的自杀者制造的。白沙瓦一名高级官员穆罕默德·伊利亚斯(Muhammad Ilyas)说，很可能是一个携带炸弹的自杀者，在引爆自己之前，先扔出了一枚手榴弹。
“As soon as the service finished and the food was being distributed, all of a sudden we heard one explosion, followed by another,” said Azim Ghori, a witness.
目击者阿齐姆·古里(Azim Ghori)说，“就在祈祷结束、分发食物的时候，我们突然听到一个爆炸声，之后又听到一个。”
It was the worst attack in years on the Christian minority in Pakistan, and coincides with a broader wave of attacks on religious minorities including Shiite Muslims this year.
这是针对巴基斯坦基督教少数民族的袭击事件中几年来最严重的一次，与今年发生的更大范围的针对宗教少数民族(包括什叶派穆斯林)的袭击风波不谋而合。
In March, a Muslim mob swarmed through a Christian neighborhood in the eastern city of Lahore, burning two churches and more than 100 houses. Christians also frequently find themselves accused of blasphemy under Pakistan’s strict blasphemy laws.
3月份，一群穆斯林暴徒涌进拉合尔城东一个基督教居民区，烧毁了两座教堂和100多座房屋。在巴基斯坦严厉的反对亵渎神灵法律之下，基督教徒也经常发现自己被指控犯有亵渎神灵罪。
The attacks are mostly orchestrated by Sunni extremist militant groups, although some have also been claimed by the Pakistani Taliban.
这些袭击大多数都是由逊尼派极端分子的武装组织策划，但巴基斯坦塔利班也声称对其中一些袭击负责。
The All Saints Church is one of the oldest in Peshawar and was built during the British colonial era. It is at Kohati Gate in the city’s old quarter, where numerous militant attacks have occurred in recent years, mostly targeting Muslims.
这座圣公会教堂是白沙瓦最古老的教堂之一，建于英国殖民时期。教堂位于该城市老区的科哈蒂门(Kohati Gate)，近年来这里发生过数次武装袭击，大多数是针对穆斯林的。
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has been trying to initiate peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban, aimed at ending a decade of violence. An all-parties political conference held earlier this month gave the government approval to start negotiations with the insurgents.
总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)一直试图开启同巴基斯塔塔利班的和平谈判，以终止持续了十年的暴力。本月初一次所有党派都参加了的政治会议授权政府开始与叛乱者举行谈判。
But that offer was publicly rejected by the Taliban, which later claimed responsibility for the killing of a senior army general in Upper Dir, near the Afghan border, last week.
但是，该提议却遭到塔利班的公开拒绝，随后塔利班称为上周在阿富汗边境附近上迪尔打死一名高级军队将领负责。
Immediately after Sunday’s bombing, questions were again raised about the government’s plans to hold peace talks.
周日的爆炸事件发生之后，人们马上再次开始质疑政府打算举行和平谈判的计划。
Mr. Sharif condemned the attack. “The terrorists have no religion and targeting innocent people is against the teachings of Islam and all religions,” he said in a statement.
谢里夫谴责了这次袭击。他在一项声明中说，“恐怖分子没有宗教信仰，袭击无辜者违反了伊斯兰教以及所有宗教的教义。”
The Pakistan Ulema Council, the largest clerical body, also condemned the blast, saying that the council was “standing with our Christian brothers in this tragedy.”
巴基斯坦最大的宗教组织巴基斯坦伊斯兰学者委员会(Pakistan Ulema Council)也谴责了这次袭击并表示，该委员会“在这场悲剧中与我们的基督教兄弟们站在一起。”
After the bombing, as people searched for their relatives on the church premises, opposition politicians criticized the provincial government, led by Imran Khan, for failing to send a senior minister to the scene.
爆炸发生后，人们在教堂废墟中寻找自己亲人的同时，反对派政治家指责该省政府没有派高级部长前往现场，省政府由伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)领导。
“People are dying every day,” said Mian Iftikhar Hussain, a former provincial minister, as he visited the church and tried to comfort grieving protesters. “The government seems to be absent. The chief minister and other ministers should visit the church.”
“每天都有人死去，”一名前省级部长米安·伊夫蒂哈尔·侯赛因(Mian Iftikhar Hussain)说。他来到这座教堂，试图安抚悲痛的抗议者。他说，“政府似乎没派人来。首席部长和其他部长们都应该到这里来看看。”