HONG KONG — About 145,000 people on the Indonesian island of Bali have left their homes around Mount Agung, a volcano that is showing signs it could erupt, officials said on Friday.
香港——印度尼西亚官员周五表示，巴厘岛阿贡火山(Mount Agung)因为出现爆发迹象，附近大约有14.5万人已经离开了家园。
The 9,944-foot volcano, the highest mountain on Bali, last erupted in the early 1960s, destroying villages and killing about 1,700 in mudflows and clouds of hot gases, lava fragments and ash.
这座海拔9944英尺（约3030米）的火山是巴厘岛最高的山，上一次爆发是在1960年代初，当时村庄遭到摧毁，泥石流和热气云、熔岩碎片和灰烬导致约1700人丧生。
The authorities have warned people as far as 12 kilometers, or 7.5 miles, from the volcano to leave the area and to seek shelter elsewhere.
当局已经警告距离该火山方圆12公里的住户，让他们离开该地区，前往其他地方寻求庇护。
Some of those who have fled in recent days are not in the evacuation zone, but they have left out of caution and uncertainty about what areas are at risk, the Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management said.
印度尼西亚国家灾害管理委员会(Indonesian National Board for Disaster Management)说，最近几天逃离的人中，有些不在撤离区内，但是他们不确定哪些地区有风险，逃离是为了以防万一。
Seismic monitors have recorded a sharp increase in underground activity near the volcano since mid-September, including a magnitude 4.3 earthquake on Tuesday. Satellites have also detected new steam emissions and thermal areas within the volcano’s crater, and steam clouds can be seen rising above the summit, the Indonesian Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation said.
9月中旬以来，地震监测仪记录到该火山附近的地下活动急剧增加，周二还发生了4.3级地震。印尼火山和地质灾害减灾中心(Indonesian Center for Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation)说，卫星也在其火山口内发现了新的蒸汽排放和热区，山顶上方可以看到蒸汽云。
Still, the center warned, the “exact date and time of future eruptions cannot be predicted.”
不过，该中心警告说，“无法预测未来爆发的确切日期和时间。”
The authorities have supplies for up to a month at 475 camps, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman for the national disaster agency, said on Twitter.
国家灾害管理委员会发言人苏托帕·蒲洼·卢格霍(Sutopo Purwo Nugroho)在Twitter上表示，当局可以为475个营地供应物资最多一个月。
Along with people, livestock is also at risk, including at least 30,000 cattle. About 10,000 have already been moved to safety, but another 20,000 still need to be evacuated, the authorities said on Thursday. Volunteers have also entered villages to gather dogs, cats and other animals that were left behind.
与人一样，牲畜也处于危险境地，其中包括至少3万头牛。当局周四表示，约有1万头牛已经转移到安全地带，另外还有2万头需要撤离。一些志愿者也进入村庄寻找被遗弃的狗、猫和其他动物。
Bali is heavily dependent on tourism, and local officials have sought to convince people that the volcano should not pose a threat to people who stay out of the danger zone. Mount Agung is about 35 miles northeast of Kuta, in southern Bali, the main tourist area.
巴厘岛非常依赖旅游业，当地官员试图让人们相信，该火山不会对危险区域之外的人构成威胁。阿贡火山位于巴厘岛南部的主要旅游区库塔的东北方向，距离约35英里（约56公里）。
“For our brothers and sisters from abroad, of course Bali is still safe,” Made Mangku Pastika, the island’s governor, said on Thursday.
巴厘省省长梅德·芒库·帕斯皮卡(Made Mangku Pastika)周四表示：“对于来自国外的兄弟姐妹，巴厘岛当然仍旧是安全的。