LONDON — Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani schoolgirl who was shot in the head by the Taliban for her advocacy of girls’ education, was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought on Thursday by the European Parliament.
伦敦——因倡导女童受教育权利而遭塔利班枪手击中头部的巴基斯坦女孩马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)周四被欧洲议会(European Parliament)授予萨哈罗夫人权奖(Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought)。
Ms. Yousafzai, 16, became a global symbol of bravery after she was attacked on her way home from school in the Swat Valley, in northwestern Pakistan, a year ago. She is seen as a contender for the Nobel Peace Prize, due to be announced Friday.
今年16岁的优萨福扎伊已经成为勇敢的国际象征，一年前她在巴基斯坦西北部斯瓦特山谷(Swat Valley)从学校回家途中遭遇袭击。她还是即将在周五揭晓的诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)候选人。
Ms. Yousafzai was chosen as the winner of the $65,000 Sakharov Prize by the heads of the political groupings in the 766-member European Parliament. She was a less contentious choice for the prize than another nominee on the short list, Edward J. Snowden, the American intelligence contractor whose revelations about American and British electronic surveillance have angered those governments.
优萨福扎伊被有766名成员的欧洲议会的政治团体领导评选为萨哈罗夫人权奖得主，奖金为6.5万美元（约合39.77万元人民币）。与入围名单上的另一名候选人爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)相比，选择她获奖不那么有争议。美国情报机构前合同工斯诺登泄露美国和英国电子监听的大量信息，让这两个国家的政府十分恼火。
“By awarding the Sakharov Prize to Malala Yousafzai, the European Parliament acknowledges the incredible strength of this young woman,” Martin Schulz, the president of the Parliament, said in a statement issued in Strasbourg, France. “Malala bravely stands for the right of all children to be granted a fair education. This right for girls is far too commonly neglected.”
欧洲议会议长马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schulz)在法国斯特拉斯堡发布的一份声明中说，“欧洲议会将萨哈罗夫人权奖颁给马拉拉·优萨福扎伊，以表彰这一年轻女子令人难以置信的力量。马拉拉勇敢地代表了所有孩子都应当公平得到的受教育权利。女童的这项权利经常被忽视。”
After she was shot in October 2012, Ms. Yousafzai was taken to Britain for emergency surgery. She lives with her family in Birmingham, England.
优萨福扎伊在2012年10月遇袭后，被送往英国接受紧急手术。目前她与家人一起居住在英国伯明翰。
She appeared before the United Nations in July, where she delivered an impassioned appeal for children’s right to an education, and has attracted considerable media attention this week, when she published a memoir, gave lengthy interviews to the BBC and ABC News, and was a guest on “The Daily Show.”
7月份，她在联合国大会发表讲话，深情地呼吁保障儿童的受教育权利，本周她吸引了媒体的高度关注，因为她发表了一份回忆录，接受BBC和ABC新闻部(ABC News)的深入采访，还做客《每日秀》(The Daily Show)。
At public appearances she is often seen alongside her father, Ziauddin, a school headmaster who played a central role in thrusting his daughter into the spotlight from an early age.
她经常和父亲齐亚丁(Ziauddin)一起出现在公众面前，她父亲是一名校长，他在女儿小时候就将她推向聚光灯下，在这方面起到了关键作用。
Though Ms. Yousafzai is being lauded in the West, she is a more controversial figure in Pakistan, where right-wing critics accuse her of pandering to Western culture and political agendas. Few Pakistanis believe it would be safe for her to return home right now, given threats against her life by Taliban militants who regret their failure to kill her.
虽然优萨福扎伊在西方受到称赞，但她在巴基斯坦更具争议，右翼批评人士指责她迎合西方文化和政治议程。鉴于塔利班武装分子后悔当初没能打死她，并继续威胁要杀死她，巴基斯坦几乎没有人认为她现在回国会安全。
The Sakharov Prize was established in 1988 in honor of the Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. Previous winners include Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general.
萨哈罗夫人权奖是在1988年为纪念前苏联异见人士安德烈·萨哈罗夫(Andrei Sakharov)而设立的。之前的获奖者有纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)和联合国前秘书长科菲·安南(Kofi Annan)。
Ms. Yousafzai also captured the imagination of the betting public. Paddy Power, an Irish bookmaker, listed her on Thursday as the second favorite to win the Nobel Peace Prize, behind Denis Mukwege, a Congolese gynecologist who has treated women who were gang-raped during the continuing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo. A British bookmaker, William Hill, listed her as the favorite, at odds of 4 to 6, leading a field of contenders that includes Mr. Snowden at 20 to 1, and Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, at 25 to 1.
优萨福扎伊还引起博彩者的各种猜测。爱尔兰赌注登记经纪人(Paddy Power)周四在诺贝尔和平奖候选人排名中将她排在第二位，仅次于刚果妇科医生丹尼斯·穆克维奇(Denis Mukwege)，他为那些在刚果民主共和国战乱期间遭到轮奸的妇女提供治疗。英国赌注登记经纪人威廉姆·希尔(William Hill)则将优萨福扎伊排在第一位，赔率为4比6，排在她后面的人包括斯诺登，赔率为20比1，以及朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)，赔率为25比1。
The award on Thursday came six days after Ms. Yousafzai was announced as the winner of the Anna Politkovskaya Award, named for the Russian journalist and critic of the Kremlin who worked to uncover abuses in Chechnya and was fatally shot in her apartment building in 2006. That prize is awarded by a group called Reach All Women in War to a woman who works to promote human rights.
在周四公布这一奖项6天前，优萨福扎伊被宣布赢得安娜波利特科夫卡亚奖(Anna Politkovskaya Award)，这一奖项是为了纪念俄罗斯记者、克里姆林宫批评者安娜·波利特科夫卡亚而设，她生前致力于曝光车臣发生的侵犯人权的行为，2006年在自己的公寓楼被枪杀。这一奖项由“接触所有战时妇女”(Reach All Women in War)组织向致力于倡导人权的女性颁发。