LAHORE, Pakistan — Suicide bombers attacked two Christian churches during Sunday services in the Pakistani city of Lahore, killing at least 15 people and wounding dozens in the latest attack on religious minorities in the country.
巴基斯坦拉合尔——两座基督教教堂在巴基斯坦拉合尔市的周日礼拜活动中遭到自杀式炸弹袭击，共导致至少15人死亡，数十人受伤。这是针对该国宗教少数派的最新一轮袭击。
The attacks occurred in quick succession outside Catholic and Protestant churches in Youhanabad, one of Pakistan's biggest Christian neighborhoods.
尤哈那巴德区(Youhanabad)是巴基斯坦最大的基督教社区之一，这里的天主教和新教教堂在短时间内相继遭到袭击。
A man rigged with explosives blew himself up outside the main gate of St. John's Catholic Church after being prevented from entering by a security guard, said Haider Ashraf, a senior police officer.
高级警官海德尔·阿什拉夫(Haider Ashraf)说，一名身携炸药的男子在试图进入圣约翰天主教堂(St. John’s Catholic Church)时被保安制止，随即在教堂大门外引爆。
A second blast went off minutes later in the compound of Christ Church, about half a mile away.
几分钟后，大约半英里以外的一个基督教堂也发生了爆炸。
In the aftermath of the attacks, an enraged crowd lynched two people suspected of being accomplices in the bombings, one of whom was wrenched from police custody. Local news outlets reported that the mob set their dead bodies on fire.
袭击发生后，被激怒的民众用私刑处决了涉嫌参与爆炸案的两人，其中一人已经被警方扣押，但仍被强行带走。据当地新闻媒体报道，人们放火烧了他们的尸体。
The crowd also prevented the police from entering the scene of the attacks, and angry protests spread across the city. Demonstrations were also reported in Karachi and other cities.
人们还阻止警方进入袭击现场，愤怒的抗议活动蔓延到了整座城市。卡拉奇和其他城市也发生了示威抗议。
Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, a splinter faction of the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack.
巴基斯坦塔利班的小分支“自由人党”(Jamaat-ul-Ahrar)宣布对此次袭击负责。
Local TV stations broadcast images of wailing and distraught relatives in hospital corridors. One woman wept hysterically as relatives tried to calm her.
从地方电视台播出的画面来看，亲属在医院的走廊里痛欲绝、焦虑不堪。一名女性在歇斯底里地哭喊，其他亲属则试图安抚她。
Pervez Masih, 45, who was in one of the churches, said the explosion went off just as the prayer service was concluding.
45岁的佩尔韦·马西赫(Pervez Masih)当时在教堂中，他表示爆炸是礼拜快结束时发生的。
“Afterward people were running here and there, trying to save their lives,” he said.
他说，“然后人们开始四处逃命。”
Religious minorities including Shiites, Christians and Ahmadi Muslims have been under violent attack for years in Pakistan. At least 85 people were killed in an attack on All Saints Church in Peshawar in September 2013.
多年来，巴基斯坦地区包括什叶派教徒、基督徒及阿哈默底亚派穆斯林在内的宗教少数派一直遭到暴力袭击。2013年9月，白沙瓦的圣公会教堂遭到袭击，导致至少85人死亡。
There have also been sporadic attacks on Christians in Punjab, the country's most populous province, often prompted by accusations of blasphemy against the Prophet Muhammad.
巴基斯坦人口最多的旁遮普省的基督徒也遭到几次攻击，这些攻击的起因通常是有人指责他们亵渎先知穆罕默德。
But Pakistan has been particularly on edge in recent months since a Taliban assault on a Peshawar school that killed at least 150 people, most of them children.
但数月前，塔利班对白沙瓦的一所学校发动攻击，导致至少150人死亡——其中大多数是孩子，此后巴基斯坦的局势一直格外紧张。
Nabila Ghazanfar, a spokeswoman for the Punjab police, said the deaths from the attack Sunday included 13 worshippers, two police officers deployed for security outside the churches and the two suspects beaten to death by the mob, in addition to the two bombers.
旁遮普省警方发言人纳比拉·嘉珊法尔(Nabila Ghazanfar)表示，除了两名引爆炸弹的人外，在周日袭击行动中死亡的还有13名参加礼拜的人，两名驻守在教堂外保障安全的警察，以及两名被民众打死的嫌犯。