A 9-month-old Pakistani boy will not be going to prison on attempted murder charges.
一名9个月大的巴基斯坦男婴将不会因谋杀未遂的指控而被送入监狱。
The baby, Musa Khan, became the focus of international attention in recent days when the local police took the unusual step of charging him along with four adults in connection with a violent protest in Lahore in February.
近日，这个名叫穆萨汗(Musa Khan)的婴儿成了国际社会关注的焦点，原因是当地警方做出了非常之举，指控他和其他四名成年人涉嫌参与今年2月在拉合尔举行的一次暴力抗议活动。
Critics say the charges reflected the tendency of the Pakistani police to lodge exaggerated complaints against poor families.
批评者称，此次指控反映了巴基斯坦警方有对贫穷家庭提出言过其实的指控的倾向。
On Saturday, though, the police withdrew the charges against Musa, the baby’s lawyer, Irfan Tarar, told The Associated Press.
不过，这名婴儿的律师伊尔凡·塔拉尔(Irfan Tarar)对美联社(Associated Press)表示，警方已于上周六取消了对穆萨汗的指控。
The case against the baby led to widespread ridicule being heaped against the Pakistani legal system, particularly after little Musa was photographed crying while being fingerprinted — and he then had to be comforted with a bottle of milk. His family subsequently moved him out of Lahore to Faisalabad, citing safety reasons.
此次起诉婴儿的案件导致巴基斯坦的司法体制广受嘲弄，尤其是在小穆萨汗被采集指纹时大哭不已的情形被拍成照片之后——之后家人不得不用一瓶奶来安抚他。他的家人随后以安全为由带他离开拉合尔，去了费萨尔巴德。
Musa, along with his father and grandfather, was accused of being part of a group of slum residents who threw stones at gas company workers as they tried to disconnect gas service from homes where the owners had not paid their bills.
穆萨汗和他的父亲及祖父被指控和一群贫民窟居民一道向燃气公司的工人投掷石块，当时，工人们试图切断没缴费的家庭的燃气供应。
The outcry over the charges led Shahbaz Sharif, the chief minister of Punjab Province and the brother of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, to order an inquiry into the matter.
此次指控引发的强烈反弹促使旁遮普省首席部长、巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的弟弟沙赫巴兹·谢里夫(Shahbaz Sharif)下令调查此事。
Musa’s lawyer, Mr. Tarar, had argued that children under 7 years old cannot be prosecuted under Pakistani law.
穆萨汗的律师塔拉尔为他辩护说，巴基斯坦法律规定检方不得指控7岁以下的儿童。
Musa had been free on bail pending Saturday’s hearing, during which the judge allowed for the dismissal of the case against him.
穆萨汗在周六的聆讯前即被保释，法官此后在庭上撤销了针对他的起诉。