Hong Kong has proved that it can attract the art world’s attention. Art Basel has propelled the city onto the international fair circuit, and the buzz each year is over which major Western gallery is opening here. (This year, it is the Pace Gallery, which is based in New York.)
香港——香港证明自己能够吸引艺术界的注意力。巴塞尔艺术展已经把这座城市推上了国际盛会的舞台，每年的喧闹过后，总有一个重要的西方画廊在这里开分部（今年是纽约的佩斯画廊[Pace Gallery]）。
But while there is plenty of cash sloshing around Hong Kong’s art market, there has been relatively little support for independent local artists and galleries until recent years. It is not uncommon to hear budding designers and artists talk wistfully of cities with deep, broad art scenes like New York and London.
虽然有大量资金流入香港的艺术市场，但是直到近几年才对当地的独立艺术家和画廊有所支持。经常听到初露头角的设计师和艺术家充满向往地谈论具有深厚、广泛艺术活动的城市，比如纽约和伦敦。
At this year’s Art Basel in Hong Kong, the beginnings of a homegrown art scene are increasingly evident. Most critics here agree that it will take time before the city has enough local talent to establish an identity. But from the Chai Wan Mei festival to hip bars, seekers of indigenous culture will not be disappointed.
在今年的香港巴塞尔艺术展上，本土艺术活动开始崭露头角。当地的大部分批评家不否认这座城市还需要一些时间才有足够多的本土人才以树立自己的个性。但是从柴湾尾的艺术节到时尚酒吧，追寻本土文化的人都不会失望。
Ryan McNamara, one of America’s hottest young performance artists, will be holding his first Asian event here on Friday night, the same weekend that the art world will be in town for Art Basel in Hong Kong.
美国热门年轻行为艺术家赖安·麦克纳马拉(Ryan McNamara)于周五晚上在此举办他的首个亚洲活动，就在这个周末，众多艺术界人士将来香港参加巴塞尔艺术展。
“Score,” Mr. McNamara’s first work since “Meem” was honored at Performa 13 in New York, will not be shown at the convention center where the fair is being held or at a conventional gallery or studio. Instead, Mr. McNamara will work with local and New York dancers in a parking garage in Chai Wan, an industrial area on the city’s eastern edge.
麦克纳马拉在《Meem》之后的第一个作品《Score》在纽约的“表演13”(Performa 13)展上大获好评。但该作品将不会出现在举办巴塞尔艺术展的会展中心或者传统的画廊或工作室。麦克纳马拉将和当地及纽约的舞蹈者在柴湾的一个停车场一起合作。柴湾是香港东端的一个工业区。
Chai Wan is where artists, photographers and designers have turned warehouses into studios and, although it is against zoning regulations, into loft homes as well.
艺术家、摄影师和设计师把柴湾的仓库变成工作室或者自住loft，虽然后者违背分区规划的规定。
Katie de Tilly, an organizer of the events in Chai Wan, said neighborhood was so undeveloped that the parking garage would be cleared out for Mr. McNamara.
卡蒂·德·蒂利(Katie de Tilly)是柴湾活动的一位组织者，她说周围很不发达，所以停车场将被清空，供麦克纳马拉使用。
“The trucks that are usually there can park out in the street — that area’s pretty dead at night anyway,” she said. “It will be grungy. It’ll be a dance party.”
 “通常停在那里的卡车可以停在外面的街上——反正这个地区到了晚上一片死寂，”她说，“它会有点脏乱。会变成一个舞会。”
The performance and dance party are part of the wider Chai Wan Mei festival taking place on Friday and Saturday, when visitors can tour open studios, fashion boutiques and photography workshops.
表演和舞会是周五和周六举办的柴湾尾艺术节的一部分，游客们可以参观营业的工作室、时装精品店和摄影工作室。
Chai Wan’s spaces allow for enormous works that cannot fit into small, pricey galleries downtown.
柴湾的展厅可以容纳那些不适合放在市中心昂贵的小画廊的大型作品。
Ms. de Tilly’s gallery, 10 Chancery Lane, which has a smaller space in the Hong Kong neighborhood of SoHo, will use its Chai Wan space to show “Spring Autumn,” large-scale replicas of obsolete historic currencies. The artists, a husband and wife team called Shao Yinong and Muchen, commissioned traditional artisans from the eastern Chinese city Suzhou to embroider the images on delicate silk backdrops.
德·蒂利的10号赞善里画廊(10 Chancery Lane)在香港SoHo区有个较小的展厅，它将用自己在柴湾的展厅来展示《春秋》——作废的古代货币的大型复制品。作者是一对艺术家夫妻，名叫邵逸农和慕辰。他们委托中国东部城市苏州的传统手工艺人在精致的丝绸上绣这些图案。
Another gallery, Platform China, is using its Chai Wan space for “How,” an installation by the Chinese artist Zhao Zhao, who is holding his first solo show in Hong Kong.
另一个名叫站台中国(Platform China)的画廊正在用自己的柴湾展厅展出中国艺术家赵赵的装置作品“如何”(How)。赵赵正在香港举办自己的首次个展。
Platform China and 10 Chancery Lane, the two driving forces behind the Chai Wan event, are also curating a series of Guerrilla Art Installations in an industrial building’s hallways and elevators. Miro China, Swiss music promoters with an Asian focus, will be bringing in DJ Huzi and the indie dance-rock band Da Bang, both from Beijing.
站台中国和10号赞善里画廊是柴湾活动的两股主要驱动力。它们还正在一个工厂厂房的走廊和电梯里策划一系列游击艺术装置作品。镜像中国(Miro China)是关注亚洲的瑞士音乐推广公司，它将带来北京的DJ Huzi和独立舞曲摇滚乐队Da Bang。
Yet the question remains whether local creators will find their place, too. While most of Chai Wan’s participants are from Hong Kong, the two main organizers — Ms. de Tilly and Claudia Albertini of Platform Asia — are American and Italian.
但问题是当地创作人士是否也能找到自己的位置。虽然柴湾的大部分参与者来自香港，但是两位主要组织者德·蒂利和站台中国的克劳迪娅·阿尔贝蒂尼(Claudia Albertini)分别是美国人和意大利人。
“It’s always been my dream to make Chai Wan into Chelsea or 798,” Ms. de Tilly said, referring to art districts in New York and Beijing.
“我一直梦想着把柴湾变成切尔西或者798，”德·蒂利说。她指的分别是纽约和北京的两个艺术区。
Peter Lau, who owns Asia One, the building where Mr. McNamara will appear, said, “Chai Wan is not Chelsea, not yet, but it may be someday.”
麦克纳马拉的表演所在的亚洲一号(Asia One)的业主彼得·刘(Peter Lau)说，“柴湾现在还不是切尔西，但将来可能是。”
Mr. Lau became one of Chai Wan’s early developers when he started a printing plant there 17 years ago. Three years ago, he opened the AO Vertical Art Space and the AO Photo Book Center.
彼得·刘17年前在这里开设了一个印刷厂，成为柴湾的早期开发者之一。三年前，他开设了亚洲一号垂直艺术空间(AO Vertical Art Space)和亚洲一号相册中心(AO Photo Book Center)。
“There was nothing here 10 years ago, except for some photo production,” he said. “It was only three to five years ago that more art spaces and studios started opening.”
“十年前这里什么也没有，只有一些摄影产品，”他说，“三五年前开始出现更多的艺术空间和工作室。”
“To an outside visitor from New York or London, this area would definitely still seem industrial,” Mr. Lau added. “It will probably have to double in size before you could call it a real, viable art scene with major, well-curated shows all year round.”
“对纽约或伦敦的外来游客来说，这个地区肯定看起来仍像工业区，”刘补充说，“它的面积可能需要增加一倍才称得上是真正的、有活力的、全年都有精心策划的大型展览的艺术区。”
As gritty as it is, Chai Wan Mei is not entirely outside of the corporate mainstream. Absolut, the vodka brand, is sponsoring the drinks, and Mr. McNamara’s show is sponsored by Yana Peel, the chief executive of Intelligence Squared, and her husband, Stephen.
尽管外表粗糙，柴湾尾不完全处于公司主流之外。绝对伏特加(Absolut)赞助了酒水，麦克纳马拉的表演得到了智慧平方(Intelligence Squared)的首席执行官雅娜·皮尔(Yana Peel)和丈夫斯蒂芬(Stephen)的赞助。
The Hong Kong art scene is literally being built from the ground up. Every year, it seems, construction workers rush to get projects done in time for May, when Hong Kong Art Month is held.
柴湾尾还得到了巴塞尔艺术展的支持，它鼓励来主展览所在的会展中心参观的游客去探索柴湾和SoHo的其他展览。
Old becomes new
旧的变成了新的
The city’s newest development is PMQ, a former Police Married Quarters that housed officers after World War II. The building, in SoHo, was neglected for more than a decade until it was revived by a group of local investors. They have converted PMQ’s old apartments into more than 100 small, affordable spaces to be used by design firms, galleries, artisans and boutiques.
这座城市最新的开发是元创方(PMQ)，“二战”后这里曾是已婚警察宿舍。这个SoHo区的大楼被遗忘了十多年，直到被一群当地投资者复活。他们把元创方的旧公寓改造成了100多个便宜的小空间，可以用作设计公司、画廊、手工艺店或精品时装店。
Anng Tan of Art Projects Gallery has just set up a new space in PMQ, showing works on paper, lithographs and giclée prints from younger Asian artists.
艺途画廊(Art Projects Gallery)的陈安妮(Anng Tan)刚在元创方开设了一个新画廊，展示年轻亚洲艺术家的纸质、印刷和喷绘作品。
“We’re very new,” she said. “Of course, we’d want to be in something like Art Basel some day. Who knows? Maybe people from the fair will find us here.”
“我们很新，”她说，“当然，我们希望将来有一天能参加巴塞尔艺术展这样的活动。谁知道呢？也许参观那个展览的人会找到我们这儿来。”
Derek and Stefanie Chan, a couple who originally worked in the garment manufacturing sector, are among PMQ’s new tenants. Mrs. Chan’s fashion line, Robynestricot, features sculptural works that she sews together from scraps and flaps of knit fabric.
德里克和斯蒂芬妮·陈(Derek and Stefanie Chan)夫妇本来在服装制造业工作，现在是元创方的新租户之一。陈女士的服装系列Robynestricot的特色是用织物碎片缝制成雕塑作品。
“This sort of work can only be done by hand,” she said. “Each piece is one-of-a-kind and can be tailored to the customer. It’s our form of couture.”
“这样的作品只能手工制作，”她说，“一样只有一个，可以按照客户的要求定制。它是我们的定制服装风格。”
With the paint barely dry, PMQ opened to the public in April with Night Market, an open-air event featuring D.J.s, chefs, artists and designers. It will be held every Friday, Saturday and Sunday night through June.
4月份，油漆刚干，元创方就对公众开放了，一起开幕还有露天活动“夜市”(Night Market)，参与者包括DJ、大厨、艺术家和设计师。这个活动每个周五至周日晚上举办，将持续到6月底。
PMQ is this season’s go-to space for parties. The biggest was scheduled for Hong Kong Gallery Night on May 13, when local art spaces planned to stay open late for the benefit of visitors in town for Art Basel.
元创方是这个季节举办派对的热门地点。最大的派对是在5月13日举办的香港画廊之夜，为了方便来香港参加巴塞尔艺术展的游客，本地艺术画廊将开放至深夜。
And because it would not be Hong Kong without bling, on the same day, PMQ was expected to unveil an installation made of 8,000 Swarovski crystals by Fredrikson Stallard, a London design team. In June, PMQ will house another installation of 1,600 papier-mâché pandas by the French artist Paulo Grangeon.
香港不能缺了珠宝，所以同一天元创方将揭幕伦敦设计团队弗雷德里克松·斯托拉德(Fredrikson Stallard)用8000块施华洛世奇水晶做成的装置作品。6月份，元创方将引入法国艺术家保罗·格兰根(Paulo Grangeon)的另一个装置作品——1600个用混凝纸浆做成的熊猫。
On May 15, an audio-visual work by the German artist Carsten Nicolai was set to light up all 118 floors of Hong Kong’s tallest skyscraper, the International Commerce Center. Until Saturday, Hong Kong residents can use a mobile app to interact with Mr. Nicolai’s light display, called “a (alpha) pulse.”
5月15日，德国艺术家卡斯滕·尼克莱(Carsten Nicolai)的视听作品将点亮香港最高的摩天大楼国际商业中心的所有118层楼。一直到周六，香港居民可以通过一个手机应用程序与尼克莱的光展示作品“阿尔法脉冲”(a [alpha] pulse)互动。
The I.C.C. overlooks the West Kowloon Cultural District, an enormous government project across the harbor from Hong Kong Island. The project is set to include the M+ museum and a world-class opera house.
国际商业中心俯瞰西九龙文化区，它是一个从香港岛横穿海湾的庞大的政府项目。该项目包括M+博物馆(M+ museum)和一个世界级的剧院。
But for all the promotion, the project is still an empty lot with a few temporary buildings and pop-up events. Like the art scene in general, it is in the process of being built.
但是虽然该项目进行了很多宣传，但它现在仍是一片空地，只有几个临时建筑和一些零碎的活动。和这里的整体艺术景观一样，它正在建设中。