A van driver deliberately zigzagged into a crowd enjoying a sunny afternoon on Barcelona’s main pedestrian mall Thursday, killing at least 13 people and leaving 80 lying bloodied on the pavement. 
周四，一辆厢式货车故意冲入巴塞罗那一条主要的商业步行街上享受下午阳光的人群，来回碾轧，造成至少13人遇难，80人血淋淋地躺在人行道上。
Hours later, the Catalan police said they foiled a second van attack, in the seaside town of Cambrils, 70 miles to the south, fatally shooting four people. A fifth died later of wounds, the police said. The suspects appeared to be wearing explosive belts, according to Spanish news reports. Six civilians and one police officer were injured during the episode, the Catalan emergency services said.
几小时后，加泰罗尼亚警方表示，他们在巴塞罗那以南70英里的海滨小镇坎布里尔斯(Cambrils)阻止了第二起厢式货车袭击事件，并击毙了4人。警方说，第5人随后伤重而亡。据西班牙新闻报道，嫌疑犯疑似穿着爆炸腰带。加泰罗尼亚急救服务人员称，6名平民和一名警察在此次事件中受伤。
It was the worst terrorist attack in Spain since 2004, and was at least the sixth time in the past few years that assailants using vehicles as deadly weapons have struck a European city.
这是自2004年以来，西班牙发生的最严重的恐怖袭击，也是过去几年来，至少第六起攻击者用汽车作为致命武器在欧洲城市发动的袭击。
The police cordoned off the Plaza de Cataluña and Las Ramblas in the heart of Barcelona, both tourist destinations, and began a chaotic pursuit for the people who carried out the attack.
警方封锁了巴塞罗那市中心的两个旅游目的地加泰罗尼亚(Plaza de Cataluña)广场和兰布拉大街(Las Ramblas)，开始忙于追捕袭击者。
Two people were later arrested, including a Moroccan man whose identification documents had been used to rent the van. But the Barcelona police said neither was believed to be the driver, who remained at large.
之后有两人被捕，其中包括一名摩洛哥男子，租用面包车使用的就是他的身份证件。但是巴塞罗那警方表示，这两人应该都不是司机，所以凶徒仍然在逃。
The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the assault, which shattered a peaceful summer afternoon in one of Europe’s most picturesque cities. President Donald Trump and other Western leaders quickly condemned the attack and pledged cooperation.
伊斯兰国声称对这起袭击负责；在这个风景最优美的欧洲城市之一，一个宁静的夏日下午就这样被碾碎。唐纳德·特朗普总统等西方领导人迅速发表声明谴责袭击事件，并承诺进行合作。
In a sign of the confusion that prevailed after the attack, local television reported one assailant, armed with a rifle, had run into a restaurant and was besieged by the police. The police said the entire incident was false.
袭击发生后，情况变得相当混乱，比如当地电视台报道说，有一名携带枪械的凶手跑进了一家餐厅，被警方围困。但警方否认了这个说法。
Witnesses described people screaming and running for their lives as the van driver wove back and forth just after 5:30 p.m., apparently trying to hit as many people as he could. Police officers swept through the area near Las Ramblas, a wide boulevard with a large pedestrian section, moving people out of the area.
目击者称，当时是下午5点半左右，厢式货车司机开着车左右来回，显然是想冲撞碾压尽可能多的人，人群尖叫着四散逃命。大批警察在兰布拉斯大街附近地区进行搜查，将人们带出；兰布拉斯是一条宽阔的大街，设有一个大型步行区。
Videos taken by witnesses posted online showed men, women and children lying motionless on the ground amid broken umbrellas and chairs, in the shade of trees, many bleeding profusely, while paramedics and friends knelt to comfort them as police sirens wailed.
一些目击者拍摄的视频发布在网上，显示男子、妇女和儿童一动不动地躺在残破的遮阳伞和椅子之间，躺在树荫下，很多人在大流血，护理人员和朋友们跪在旁边安抚他们，警笛声在呼啸。
Whitney Cohn, a mathematics teacher from Montebello, New York, was walking along the mall with her husband and two children, on the way back to her hotel after visiting a museum, when the van came careening through the crowd, throwing people aside like dolls as screams pierced the air. She grabbed her two daughters and started running. “It was flying,” Cohn said in an telephone interview from a nearby restaurant. “The van missed us by a sec.”
来自纽约蒙特贝洛(Montebello)的数学老师惠特尼·科恩(Whitney Cohn)与丈夫和两个孩子在参观完一座博物馆后回酒店的途中，经过这里时，正好遇到肇事汽车冲进人群，受害者像玩偶一般被冲到两边，尖叫声划破半空。她抓着两个女儿就开始逃命。“车速很快，”科恩在附近的一家餐厅接受电话采访时说，“车差一点就撞到了我们。”
Other witnesses described chaos as people dropped their belongings and fled as the van entered the mall and accelerated, hitting people indiscriminately, among them children, women and the elderly.
据其他目击者的描述：肇事汽车进入步行街，然后加速，不论儿童、妇女还是老人，见人就撞，大家丢掉手里的东西开始逃命。
People streamed away onto side streets, many of them weeping. “It was horrific,” said Sergi Alcazar, a 25-year-old photographer who arrived 10 minutes after the attack to find victims lying amid broken umbrellas, chairs and cafe tables.
人们逃散到小巷中，很多人都在流泪。“这太可怕了，”25岁的摄影师塞尔希·阿尔卡萨(Sergi Alcazar)在袭击发生10分钟后到达现场，看到受害者躺在破损的遮阳伞、椅子和咖啡桌之间。
Until Thursday, Spain had been spared from the recent wave of terrorist attacks in Europe — many involving vehicles plowing into crowds — claimed by extremists in France, Germany, Britain and elsewhere.
周四之前，西班牙一直没有遭受欧洲最近恐怖主义袭击事件浪潮的波及，在法国、德国、英国等地，之前有多起恐袭事件涉及极端主义分子开车闯入人群。
Keith Fleming, an American who lives just off Las Ramblas, told The Associated Press that he was watching television when he heard a noise, looked out over his balcony and “saw women and children just running and they looked terrified.”
住在兰布拉大街附近的美国人基思·弗莱明(Keith Fleming)告诉美联社，当时他正在看电视，听到喧哗声就走到阳台向下看，“妇女和孩子们正在奔逃，他们看上去吓坏了”。
Fleming said that the street was deserted, with the exception of police officers with guns drawn or in riot gear. “It’s just kind of a tense situation,” The AP reported him as saying. “Clearly people were scared.”
弗莱明说，街道上没有人了，只有带有枪支或防暴装备的警察。“看上去情势很紧张，”美联社引用他的话说。“显然人们很害怕”。
Facebook activated its safety-check feature for Barcelona, taxis were reportedly giving free rides to help people get out of the city center, and public transit was free in the areas where it was still operating.
Facebook启动了巴塞罗那安全签到功能，据说出租车免费搭乘人们离开市中心，而该地区仍在运营的公交系统也可以免费乘坐。
U.S. counterterrorism officials in Washington said they were in contact with the Spanish authorities to offer any assistance, but underscored that the investigation had just started.
华盛顿的美国反恐官员说，他们和西班牙当局取得了联系，表示可以提供各种援助，不过同时他们也强调，调查才刚刚开始。
Trump said on Twitter that the United States condemned the attack and would “do whatever is necessary to help, telling Spaniards to “Be tough & strong, we love you!”
特朗普在Twitter上表示，美国谴责这次袭击，而且会“提供任何必要的帮助”，并告诉西班牙人“要坚强，要顽强，我们爱你们！”
In a subsequent Twitter post, Trump seemed to blame Islamist militants for the attack, citing what is widely believed to be a fictitious account of a military event, and even though the Spanish government had not identified any individuals or groups who might have been behind the attack.
在随后的Twitter帖子中，特朗普似乎责怪伊斯兰主义武装分子发起了这次袭击，并援引了被普遍认为是虚构的一个军事事件，尽管西班牙政府当时尚没有确认这次袭击背后的个人或团体的身份。
Pro-Islamic State accounts on the Telegram messaging service shared news of the attack. One channel, called “Expansion of the Caliphate,” posted video of the scene of the violence alongside a message in Arabic. “Terror is filling the hearts of the Crusader in the Land of Andalusia,” it said.
在社交消息服务平台Telegram上，亲伊斯兰国的账户分享了这次袭击的消息。有一个名为“哈里发的扩张”的频道贴出了视频，并用阿拉伯语写道：“恐惧正在填满安达卢西亚土地上十字军的心脏。”
In the past year, the Islamic State has devoted resources to translating their channels and messages into Spanish.
在过去一年中，伊斯兰国家投入各种资源，将他们的宣传频道和信息翻译成西班牙文。
Although countries like France and Britain have repeatedly been named in Islamic State propaganda urging followers to plan and stage attacks, Spain has been less in the cross hairs.
伊斯兰国在宣传活动中呼吁追随者策划和开展攻击时常常提及法国和英国这样的国家，但西班牙很少被列为目标。
The country has, however, been a transit point for recruits of the militant group, both for those going to Syria and those returning. The Spanish police arrested nine people in April who they said may have been connected with deadly attacks in France and Spain.
然而，该国已经成为伊斯兰国招募新人的经停地点，往返叙利亚的人都会经过这里。4月份，西班牙警方逮捕了9人，说他们可能与法国和西班牙的致命袭击有关。
The attack appeared to follow the playbook of recent assaults in which attackers drove vehicles into crowded stretches of large European cities.
这次袭击似乎遵循了近期一些暴恐事件的模式：袭击者在欧洲大城市开车冲入人群。
“While it’s not clear whether the attackers corresponded with ISIS prior to the operation, it’s clear that the methods used in the attack is something ISIS encouraged and incited over and again,” said Laith Alkhouri, a director in New York of the business-risk intelligence company Flashpoint, which tracks militant threats and cyberthreats.
“虽然目前尚不清楚攻击者是否在行动之前与伊斯兰国有过接触，但是很明显，这次袭击中采用的方法是伊斯兰国反复鼓励和煽动的那种。”对武装威胁和网络威胁进行追踪的纽约商业风险情报公司Flashpoint的主管莱斯·阿霍里(Laith Alkhouri)说道。