TEHRAN — Three Sunni-led countries joined Saudi Arabia on Monday insevering or downgrading diplomatic ties with Iran, worsening a geopolitical conflict with sectarian dimensions in one of the world’s most volatile regions.
德黑兰——三个由伊斯兰教逊尼派主导的国家在周一加入沙特阿拉伯的行列，与伊朗或切断外交关系，或调降外交级别，使得这个全球局势最为诡谲的区域里，因宗教教派而生的地缘政治冲突更形恶化。
The diplomatic protests from the three countries — Bahrain, Sudan and the United Arab Emirates — came as Iran accused Saudi Arabia of using an attack on the Saudi Embassy in Tehran two days earlier as a pretext for diverting attention from its problems.
来自巴林、苏丹、阿联酋三国的外交抗议，起因是沙特阿拉伯位于德黑兰的大使馆在两天前遭到攻击，而伊朗控诉沙特以此攻击事件为借口，企图引开人们对沙特自身问题的注意。
Iranian protesters ransacked and set fire to the embassy on Saturday, along with the Saudi Consulate in Iran’s second-largest city, Mashhad, after the Saudis executed a Shiite cleric who had criticized the Sunni kingdom’s treatment of its Shiite minority. The Shiite cleric was among a group of 47 people who were executed.
沙特阿拉伯政府近来处决了47名死刑犯，其中包括一位什叶派神职人员，他生前曾批评逊尼派王国对待境内什叶派少数民族的政策。处决后，伊朗抗议民众于周六洗劫并放火焚烧了沙特大使馆，位于伊朗第二大城马什哈德的沙特领事馆也同样受到攻击。
The relations between Iran and Bahrain, a Shiite-majority island nation with a Sunni monarchy, were already poor, with Bahrain accusing Iran of meddling in its internal affairs by backing various Shiite opposition groups since the start of the Arab Spring, in 2011.
伊朗与巴林的外交关系原本就十分不和，后者是一个采行逊尼派君主政体、但人口以什叶派信徒占多数的岛国。巴林控诉伊朗自2011年“阿拉伯之春”发端以来，在巴林境内支持多个什叶派反政府团体，藉此干预巴林内政。
In October, after accusing Iran of shipping weapons to the island, Bahrain recalled its ambassador in Tehran and expelled the Iranian chargé d’affaires in its capital, Manama.
十月，巴林在指责伊朗向其境内输送武器后，召回了驻德黑兰大使，并将伊朗驻巴林首都麦纳玛的代办驱逐出境。
In a statement on Monday, Bahrain said the attack on the embassy and consulate in Iran occurred “without the slightest regard for values, the law or morality” and “confirms a determination to spread devastation and destruction, and provoke unrest and strife in the region by providing protection and support for terrorists and extremists and the smuggling of weapons and explosives for use by its affiliated terrorist cells.”
在周一发表的声明中，巴林表示，在伊朗发生的使馆与领事馆攻击事件，是“完全无视价值观、法律与道德”的表现，而且“证实了该国一心要扩大灾难和毁坏的规模，借由庇护与支持恐怖分子、极端分子，来引发临近地区的动乱不安，并偷运武器和爆炸物供其下属恐怖主义组织使用。”
Sudan on Monday expelled the Iranian ambassador in Khartoum, the capital, in protest at the attack on the embassy, the Iranian news agency Fars reported.
伊朗新闻通讯社法尔斯(Fars)报道，为了对伊朗的使馆攻击事件表达抗议，苏丹亦于周一将伊朗大使自该国首都喀土木驱逐出境。
The United Arab Emirates, which had already formally protested the embassy attack, on Monday downgraded its ties by recalling its ambassador to Tehran and ordering a reduction in the number of Iranian diplomats stationed in the Emirates.
阿联酋先前已正式公开抗议这次攻击事件，而他们在周一时又调降了与伊朗的外交级别，召回驻德黑兰大使，并下令减少派驻阿联酋的伊朗外交人员数目。
“This exceptional step has been taken in the light of Iran’s continuous interference in the internal affairs of Gulf and Arab states, which has reached unprecedented levels,” the emirates’ Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement.
阿联酋外交部在一份声明中表示：“我们采取这些额外的措施，是为了因应伊朗不断干预波斯湾区与阿拉伯联邦国家的内政事务，而这种干预已达到前所未有的程度。”
For its part, Iran, which has arrested dozens of protesters suspected of involvement in the assault on the embassy and consulate, said that Saudi Arabia was using the episode to distract attention from problems at home.
而在伊朗方面，政府逮捕了数十名涉嫌攻击各使领馆的抗议人士，并表示沙特阿拉伯是在利用这次事件引开大家对沙特国内问题的注意。
“Saudi Arabia, gripped by crises inside and outside its territories, follows the policy of increasing regional tensions,” a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hossein Jaberi-Ansari, said at a weekly news briefing on Monday, in remarks that were broadcast live by the state-run news channel Irinn.
“沙特阿拉伯在执行造成区域情势愈发紧张的政策之后，深陷国内外的诸多危机之中，”伊朗外交部发言人侯赛因·贾贝里-安萨里(Hossein Jaberi-Ansari)在周一举行的每周例行新闻通报会上表示，国有媒体IRINN对他的发言进行了现场转播。
Another official, the deputy foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian, accused Saudi Arabia of making “strategic blunders,” saying it had contributed to the rise of terrorism in the region and “conspired to bring oil prices down.”
另一位伊朗官员、副外交部长侯赛因·阿米尔·阿卜杜拉辛(Hossein Amir Abdollahian)则指责沙特阿拉伯正在犯下“策略上的愚蠢错误”，称沙特助长了该地区的恐怖主义行动，并且“密谋使油价下跌”。
Mr. Abdollahian told the semiofficial news agency Fars that the execution of the Shiite cleric, Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr, was the latest such blunder.
阿卜杜拉辛告诉半官方新闻社法尔斯，沙特处决了那位什叶派神职人员谢赫尼米尔·尼米尔(Sheikh Nimr al-Nimr)，就是这种愚蠢错误的最新一例。
The United Nations, the United States and the European Union have condemned the executions, which the Saudis carried out against people it said were guilty of terrorism-related charges.
联合国、美国和欧盟皆对此次处决表示谴责，沙特称被处决的人所犯罪行涉及恐怖主义。
The Iranian vice president, Eshaq Jahangiri, said that cutting ties with Tehran was Saudi Arabia’s “loss,” the semiofficial news agency Tasnim reported.
据半官方通讯社塔斯尼姆(Tasnim)报道，伊朗副总统埃斯哈格·贾汉吉里(Eshaq Jahangiri)说，和德黑兰断绝外交关系是沙特的“损失”。
“Iran is a great country in the region and should be treated with respect,” he said. “When Iran treats you with self-restraint, you must learn, and put experienced executives in charge,” Mr. Jahangiri was quoted as saying.
报道引用贾汉吉里的话称，“伊朗是本地区的一个伟大的国家，应该得到尊敬，”他说。“当伊朗采取克制的态度来对待你，你应该吸取教训，让有经验的官员主事。”
“Saudis are advised to stop acting in a disruptive, hasty, illogical and emotional manner as well as works, because they are the ones who will face losses in cutting ties with Iran,” Mr. Jahangiri reportedly added.
“我们建议沙特不要再采取一种胡闹的、草率的、乖戾的、情绪化的行为和处事方式，因为和伊朗断绝关系最终损失的是他们，”贾汉吉里在报道中说。
While condemning the move by Saudi Arabia, officials in Iran reiterated comments on Sunday from its supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, that the attacks were not productive.
尽管对沙特阿拉伯的举动表示了谴责，伊朗官员在周日重申了最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)的表态，称攻击使馆没有益处。
“We do not achieve anything by attacking embassies and setting them ablaze,” a hard-line prayer leader, Ahmad Khatami, told the Iranian Student News Agency on Monday. “We condemn the crimes of al-Saud, but we don’t consider attacking the Saudi Embassy or Consulate an appropriate act,” he said, referring to the House of Saud, Saudi Arabia’s ruling family.
“攻击使馆，放火焚烧，这些行为是达不到任何目的的，”态度强硬的教长阿赫马德·哈塔米(Ahmad Khatami)在周一对伊朗学生通讯社(Iranian Students' News Agency)说。“我们谴责阿勒沙特的罪行，但我们不认为攻击沙特大使馆或领事馆的行为是得当的。”此处阿勒沙特指的是统治沙特阿拉伯的沙特家族(House of Saud)。
Russia — a tactical ally of Iran, which, like Russia, supports the embattled government of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad — offered on Monday to mediate the escalating conflict.
俄罗斯作为伊朗的战略盟友——两国都是目前处境艰难的叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的支持者——在周一提出，愿意出面调停这场正在升级的冲突。
The state-run news agency RIA Novosti in Moscow quoted a diplomat as saying that Russia had developed good relations with both countries through the so-called Vienna group, which is working on a resolution of the Syria conflict, and that he hoped those ties could help resolve the Iran-Saudi Arabia dispute.
莫斯科的国有通讯社俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)引用一位外交官的话说，俄罗斯已经通过被称为“维也纳小组”的机制和两国建立起良好的关系。该小组致力于为叙利亚冲突寻找解决方案，这位外交官希望，这种良好关系能有助于解决伊朗和沙特的争端。