BAMIAN, Afghanistan — They were the picture-postcard view of a rural and mostly untouched Afghanistan: ancient, towering Buddhas that became a symbol of the Taliban’s religious fanaticism and intolerance.
阿富汗巴米扬——这些高耸的古代佛像是阿富汗最原始的、明信片般优美的乡村画卷中的一部分，它们已成为塔利班陷入宗教狂热和狭隘的一个象征。
Now, about 13 years after the Bamian Buddhas were blasted into rubble, the world faces a new quandary: whether to leave the gaping gashes in the cliff where the giant statues once stood, to rebuild the Buddhas from what pieces were left, or to make copies of them. And, as so often happens these days between Afghanistan and its mainly Western supporters, opinion is passionately split.
现在，就在巴米扬大佛(Bamian Buddhas)被炸成碎片约13年之后，世界面临一个新的窘境：是留着大佛曾一度屹立的山崖上那些日渐扩大的残迹不动，还是在残迹的基础上修复大佛或复制大佛。而且，阿富汗及其西方主要支持者在这个问题上的意见分化严重，近年来这种分歧时常出现。
The major donor countries that would have to finance any restoration say the site should be left as it is, at least for now. The Afghan government wants at least one of the statues rebuilt.
所有修复项目的主要捐助国表示，应该让遗迹维持现状，至少目前应该这么做。阿富汗政府则打算至少修复其中的一尊大佛。
At the heart of the conflict is a potent mix of political ideology, and an evolving theory of restoration policy usually relegated to heady debates among archaeologists. The Afghan government craves the symbolic victory over a still-threatening Taliban that rebuilding would allow it to claim. Many of those funding the restoration fear that rebuilding when so little of the original pieces remain would not be reconstruction at all, and more reproduction than a true accounting of history.
冲突的核心是一种威力极大的政治意识形态混合体，还有逐步发展变化的修复政策理论，这些理论通常是考古学家之间激烈争论的话题。阿富汗政府渴望能压过依然对他们构成威胁的塔利班，获得象征性的胜利，修复大佛将使他们获得这种胜利。许多资助重建工程的人担忧，大佛原来的残迹如此之少，以至于这种修复根本就不是重新复原大佛，而更倾向于是脱离史实的复制。
The debate has roiled Unesco and many of its donors, which years ago appointed an Expert Working Group that has been meeting annually for a decade on the fate of the site, and that so far has been able to agree only to preserve the niches where the statues stood and stabilize them against further damage. For the moment, the preservationists have the upper hand; the Bamian Buddhas and other ancient parts of the area have been declared a Unesco World Heritage site, and any modifications to the face of the Bamian cliff would, in practice, have to be approved by the working group.
在联合国教科文组织(Unesco)和阿富汗的许多捐助国当中，这种争论已陷入白热化状态，多年前，他们任命了一个专家工作组，过去10年，工作组每年都会举行会议，讨论大佛遗址的命运，迄今为止，他们只同意保护和加固大佛所处位置的佛窟，以防止佛窟遭到进一步破坏。目前，保护主义者占了上风；巴米扬大佛和该地区的其他古迹已被宣布列为联合国教科文组织世界遗产(World Heritage)的一处遗址，实际上，对巴米扬大佛脸部的任何改动都要得到前述专家小组的批准。
But their ruling has not gone unchallenged. Last year, German conservators doing stabilization work on the eastern niche quietly began building pillars to support the stone work and protect visitors from potential collapse.
不过，该小组的决定并非无人质疑。去年，在东部佛窟里加固洞窟的德国保护人员开始悄悄建造一根支柱，来支撑佛窟的石造部分，保护游客，避免洞窟发生坍塌。
The pillars, however, looked strikingly like giant feet — similar, in fact, to those that Indian conservators built to replace the missing originals in the 1970s. Michael Petzet, an archaeologist who is the president of the German branch of the International Council on Monuments and Sites, which has done much of the conservation work on contract for Unesco, makes no secret of his intent.
然而，这些支柱看上去惊人地像巨足——实际上，它和印度保护人员在上世纪70年代建造的大佛足部替代物相类似，大佛原来的脚已丢失。国际古迹遗址理事会(International Council on Monuments and Sites)德国分会会长、考古学家迈克尔·佩策特(Michael Petzet)毫不掩饰自己的意图，他受雇于联合国教科文组织，承接了大佛的大部分保护工作。
“These feet, it was only the idea for the safety of the whole structure,” Professor Petzet said, “and maybe in the future if the Afghan government wants to make a little bit more, they can build upon this.”
“这些巨足只是为保护整个洞窟的结构安全想出的创意，”佩策特教授说，“也许在未来，阿富汗政府想再更进一小步，那么他们可以在现有基础上扩建。”
When Unesco discovered what was happening, it immediately asked the Afghan government to order the work suspended, a decision seconded during heated debate in last December’s meeting of the Expert Working Group.
联合国教科文组织发现这一情况时，立即要求阿富汗政府下令暂时停工，在去年12月的专家小组会议展开的热议中，这个决定获得了支持。
“Our priority has been to stabilize iconic elements of the World Heritage site that are unstable,” said Brendan Cassar of Unesco. “To make a good restoration when you haven’t addressed steps 1 to 9 is misplaced.”
联合国教科文组织的布伦丹·卡萨尔(Brendan Cassar)说，“我们的当务之急是加固不稳固的世界遗产遗址的标志性部位。从一到九的步骤都还没有完成，就想着完好地修复遗址，这是不合适的。”
The western niche remains in danger of collapse, he said, with rocks and stones falling regularly, partly a legacy of the high explosives the Taliban set to destroy the monuments. Pledges from donors to fund even that basic work have fallen short by at least $700,000, Mr. Cassar said.
他说，西部的洞窟依然有倒塌的危险，洞里的岩石经常会脱落，这是塔利班埋下的破坏大佛的烈性炸药所引发的部分后遗症。卡萨尔说，即使是捐助人承诺用来资助基础保护工作的捐款，都尚有70万美元（约合420万元人民币）还未到位。
The monks sculpted cliffs hundreds of feet high, flattening their faces in order to build a network of monastic and ceremonial chambers within, with more than 1,000 of them in the area of the destroyed Buddhas. The larger standing Buddha was 174 feet high — the world’s tallest and taller than the Statue of Liberty. The smaller one still towered at 115 feet.
僧侣们在几百英尺高的山崖上雕刻佛像，它们把佛像的脸塑造成一个模样，从而在洞窟内建立一个集庙宇和仪式禅房为一体的网络，在被毁坏的大佛洞窟内，有1000座这样的佛像。较大的站佛有174英尺高（约合53米），这是全球最高的站佛，比自由女神像还高。较小的大佛也有115英尺高。
Connecting the caves and the niches where the Buddhas stood was a network of tunnels, staircases and passageways hollowed out of solid rock, much of which remains intact.
在大佛站立的佛窟内有一个由通道、楼梯和过道组成的网络，把洞窟联系起来，这个网络是从坚硬的岩石上开凿出来的，其中大部分依然完好无损。
The Taliban were not the first Muslim visitors to savage the monuments; Islam forbids any form of idols, and successive conquerors turned their artillery on the niches. By the 20th century the Buddhas were heavily damaged and both were missing their wooden faces, said to have once had jeweled eyes with huge lanterns burning behind them at night.
塔利班不是首批破坏大佛的穆斯林不速之客；伊斯兰教禁止任何形式的神像，后来的征服者把他们的大炮对准了佛窟。到20世纪，巴米扬大佛受损严重，两座大佛都失去了木头做的面部，据说他们嵌有宝石制做的眼睛，在夜间，眼睛后面还有点燃的巨大灯笼。
During the war against Soviet occupation, mujahedeen commanders obliterated a sitting Buddha in the cliff with heavy artillery and looted many of the caves. Domed ceilings in some caves were desecrated; the fighters built scaffolding that allowed them to leave their muddy footprints on the ceiling, a move highly offensive to Buddhists.
在抗击苏联入侵的战争中，圣战指挥官用重型火炮摧毁了山岩上的一尊坐佛，洗劫了许多洞窟。一些洞窟的穹顶式天花板遭到亵渎；战斗人员搭建了脚手架，这样他们就可以在天花板上留下泥泞的脚印，在佛教徒眼里这是极大的冒犯。
The Taliban, however, brought a more systematic destruction to the approximately 1,500-year-old statues, planting high explosives throughout the niches in 2001, reducing the remaining statues to rubble and leaving the niches and many passageways unstable.
不过，塔利班以更加系统化的方式，摧毁了这些将近有1500年历史的佛像，2001年，他们在佛窟中埋下了高烈性炸药，把残余的佛像炸成了碎片，许多佛窟和过道因此摇摇欲坠。
Professor Petzet maintains that his conservators have managed to preserve, identify and catalog as much as 30 percent of the surface of the smaller standing Buddha, enough, he says, to restore it persuasively.
佩策特教授坚持认为，他手下的保护人员设法保护和鉴别出了较小的站佛高达30%的表面部位，并进行了编目，他说，以这个比例足以令人信服地修复大佛。
But Unesco says other experts are not so sure of that figure, putting the amount of material recovered at about 10 percent.
不过，教科文组织表示，其他专家对这一数字没那么有把握，他们认为，寻回的遗迹数量大约在10%。
“The point is, a very small percentage of the surface remains,” Mr. Cassar said. “Some pieces are the size of a car and some a grain of sand.” In addition, the type of sandstone from which the Buddhas were carved is highly unstable.
卡萨尔说，“关键是，只有极小的表面部分被保存下来。有些部分和车一样大，有些部分像一粒沙那么小。”不仅如此，雕刻大佛的砂岩是一种高度不稳定的岩体。
“It’s a disaster that can never be put back together,” he said.
他说，“这是一场灾难，大佛绝不可能再被修复了。”
Abdul Ahad Abassi, head of monuments for the Afghan culture ministry, said the government formally requested that the smaller Buddha be rebuilt, and Unesco’s World Heritage Committee is studying the issue.
阿富汗文化部历史遗迹负责人阿布·阿哈德·阿巴西(Abdul Ahad Abassi)说，阿政府之前要求重建较小的大佛，联合国教科文组织世界遗产委员会(World Heritage Committee)正在研究这个问题。
“In 10 years, the Expert Working Group has come to no final decision,” said Muhammad Asir Mubaligh, the Bamian deputy governor. “I know they have achieved some small things, but 10 years? The main problem is there hasn’t been a donor country to say, ‘We will pay for it.’ ”
“10年了，专家工作小组依然没有做出最终决定。”巴米扬省副省长穆罕默德·阿西尔·穆巴莱(Muhammad Asir Mubaligh)说。“我知道他们已经取得了一些小成果，可是，这要花上10年吗？主要问题是没有一个捐助国肯说，‘我们来付钱’。”