RIO DE JANEIRO — At least two workers were killed on Wednesday when a construction crane collapsed at the stadium in São Paulo where Brazil plans to hold the opening game of next year’s World Cup, raising concerns over the country’s ability to finish an array of lavish arenas that have been plagued by delays and cost overruns.
里约热内卢——周三，至少两名工人死于一座圣保罗体育场的建筑吊车垮塌事故。巴西计划在这座体育场举行明年世界杯足球赛(World Cup)的揭幕战。这起事故却引发外界担心，巴西能否完成一系列受到工期延误和超支问题困扰的奢华场馆。
The crane crashed into the stadium, tearing a deep gash at one end of the structure.
吊车砸进了场内，在建筑的一端撕开了深深的口子。
The accident at the Arena Corinthians stadium, intended to seat 70,000 spectators when completed, highlights festering tensions in Brazil as the June 2014 beginning of the World Cup approaches.
事故发生在科林蒂安体育场(Arena Corinthians)，按照计划，完工后这里将能容纳7万人。事故突显出，随着2014年6月世界杯举办日期的临近，巴西国内的紧张气氛愈演愈烈。
When Brazil was chosen to host both the World Cup and the 2016 Olympics, the news was seen as confirmation of the country’s status as a developing world power. But spending on the stadiums has drawn the ire of street protesters and prosecutors questioning priorities in a nation where public schools and hospitals remain in lamentable conditions.
当巴西当选这届世界杯和2016年奥运会举办国的时候，这被视为对该国的发展中大国地位的一种肯定。可是，在体育场馆上的花销引发了街头抗议者与检察部门的怒火，他们质疑，应如何区分主次，毕竟在巴西这个国家，公立学校与医院仍状况堪忧。
Organizers of the World Cup, which will be held in 12 Brazilian cities at an estimated cost of more than $11 billion, are now grappling with questions over the safety of workers involved in their frenzied attempts to finish building the stadiums.
世界杯组织者计划在巴西的12座城市举办赛事，预计支出在110亿美元（约合670亿元人民币）以上。组织方急迫地想让场馆按时完工，如今又要努力应付工人安全的问题。
In addition to the accident in São Paulo, two workers died in separate episodes while working on stadiums in Brasília, the capital, and in the Amazonian city Manaus.
除了圣保罗的事故，在首都巴西利亚和亚马孙城市马瑙斯的体育场也分别发生过事故，共导致两名工人丧命。
“These fatal accidents are inadmissible,” said Antonio Bekeredjian, the leader of a construction workers’ union.
一个建筑工人工会的领导人安东尼奥·贝克尔吉安(Antonio Bekeredjian)说，“这些死伤事故令人无法接受。”
He said his union had asked the Labor Ministry to investigate the working conditions and causes of the accident in São Paulo. If the ministry accepts the request for an investigation, work on parts of the stadium could be halted for about 30 days, he added.
他表示，自己领导的工会已向劳工部提出申请，要求调查圣保罗体育场的工作环境及事故的原因。他还说，如果劳工部接受了调查申请，体育场的部分工程将暂停30天左右。
Witnesses said the toll could have been far higher had not many workers been at lunch when the crane fell. Emergency response officials sealed off access to about one-third of the construction site.
目击者称，要不是吊车倒塌的时候正值许多工人的午饭时间，死伤人数或许会高得多。应急官员封锁了大概三分之一的建筑工地。
Odebrecht, the Brazilian firm building the stadium, halted construction but said that work was expected to resume on Monday.
建造该体育场的巴西奥德布雷赫特集团(Odebrecht)暂停了施工，不过宣布预计将于下周一重新开工。
“Everything was being done according to procedure,” Frederico Barbosa, the construction site’s manager, told The Associated Press. “We will have to wait for the investigation to find out what caused the crane to collapse.”
“当时所有事情都是按照章程来的，”施工经理弗雷德里科·巴尔博萨(Frederico Barbosa)告诉美联社(The Associated Press)。“我们将不得不等待调查来找出吊车坍塌的原因。”
The São Paulo stadium project, which obtained more than $175 million in financing from Brazil’s national development bank, is intended to be used by Corinthians, one of the nation’s most powerful soccer clubs, in addition to being the site of six World Cup games.
这座圣保罗体育场的项目从巴西国家开发银行获得了超过1.75亿美元的资金。除了承办六场世界杯比赛，它还计划成为科林蒂安队的主场。这支球队是巴西最强大的足球俱乐部之一。
While it remained unclear on Wednesday whether the accident would delay completion of the stadium, the project was already at a more advanced stage than some of the other arenas that are under construction for the tournament.
至于事故是否会延误体育场的完工，这一点到周三的时候还不清楚。虽说如此，比起世界杯的其他一些在建场馆，这里的进度已经处于更快的阶段了。
“It was a project that was progressing well,” Fernando Haddad, São Paulo’s mayor, said in comments broadcast on local radio.
圣保罗市长费尔南多·哈达德(Fernando Haddad)在当地电台节目中发表评论称，“这个项目之前的进展挺顺利的。”
“We are distressed to learn of this case involving victims,” he added. “We’ll await the construction company’s findings.”
“我们为这起致人罹难的事件感到悲伤，”他还说。“我们将等待建筑公司的调查结果。”