AT the opening of the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, Dilma Rousseff, the president of my country, Brazil, delivered a scolding speech in response to reports that the National Security Agency has monitored electronic communications of Brazilian citizens, members of government and private corporations. Like a displeased school principal, Ms. Rousseff seemed to speak directly to President Obama, who was waiting in the wings to deliver his own speech.
在本周二联合国大会的开幕日上，我们巴西的总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)在演讲中对美国进行了斥责，因为有报道显示，美国国家安全局(NSA)对巴西公民、政府成员和私营公司员工的电子通讯进行了监听。罗塞夫看上去像一位生气的学校校长，似乎直接在跟美国总统奥巴马讲话。当时奥巴马正坐在边上，等着发表他自己的演讲。
She called the surveillance program “a breach of international law” and “a situation of grave violation of human rights and of civil liberties; of invasion and capture of confidential information concerning corporate activities; and especially of disrespect to national sovereignty.” She seemed personally offended when she demanded “explanations, apologies and guarantees that such procedures will never be repeated.” Last week, she called off a planned visit to the United States, after she learned that the N.S.A. had gained access to her own e-mails, telephone calls and text messages.
罗塞夫称这些监视活动“违反国际法”，“严重违反人权和公民自由权益；是对涉及企业活动的机密信息的入侵和盗取；尤其不尊重别国主权。”当她要求“解释、道歉，并保证将永远不会再有这样的活动”时，显得像是自己遭到了冒犯。而上周，当她得知NSA也监视了她的电子邮件、电话和短信后，她取消了原定访问美国的计划。
All in all, it was a nice example of what Brazilians call “Dilma Bolada,” or “Furious Dilma.” (A Rio de Janeiro publicist has even created a fake Twitter profile under that name, to make fun of our president’s famous short temper.)
总而言之，这就是巴西人所说的“愤怒的迪尔玛”(Dilma Bolada)的一个好例子（里约热内卢的一名公关人士甚至用这个名称创建一个假的Twitter账户，来取笑总统著名的急脾气）。
Her strong response was likely more a symbolic position than a political act with practical outcomes, and some interpreted it as nothing more than a way of boosting her popularity for the presidential election next year. But it was well received in Brazil, where for the last four months people have been closely following the news about the secret documents on the spying program leaked by Edward J. Snowden.
她作出的强烈反应可能主要是象征性的，而非一种希望获得实际成果的政治行为。也有人认为，她纯粹是想藉此提升自己的人气，为明年总统大选做铺垫。但是在巴西，人们在这件事上是支持她的，因为过去四个月中，大家一直密切关注着爱德华·斯诺登 (Edward J. Snowden)泄露NSA监控活动的新闻。
The Brazilian newspaper O Globo first reported on the surveillance of Brazilian citizens in July. The series of articles, based on documents provided by Mr. Snowden to Glenn Greenwald, an American journalist living in Rio, detailed how the agency had established a data collection center in Brasília, systematically tapped into the local telecommunication network and intercepted the e-mail and telephone records of millions of citizens. Inside its own country, the N.S.A. needs a warrant to wiretap citizens. But not abroad. According to one document, Brazil is included in a group of key countries being closely monitored by the N.S.A. under the rubric “Friends, Enemies, or Problems?”
今年7月，巴西《环球报》(O Globo)首次报道了NSA监视巴西公民的活动。这一系列文章以斯诺登提供给居住在里约热内卢的美国记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的文件为依据，讲述了NSA如何在巴西利亚建立了一个数据收集中心，有系统地侵入当地电信网络系统，截获了数百万巴西公民的电子邮件和电话记录。在美国本土，NSA需要搜查令才能对公民展开窃听，但在国外却不需要。一份文件显示，巴西和另外一些重要国家被划归到同一个类别，在“朋友、敌人，还是麻烦？”的标签下，遭到NSA的密切监视。
Like most Brazilians, I was annoyed to learn that the American government might have been gathering data from my computer and phone calls. But on the bright side, I am hoping that it has kept a backup of my files, since a few months ago I realized that I could no longer find an important video anywhere in my computer. (Mr. Obama, if you’re reading this, please send me the file “summer2012.wmv” as soon as you can.)
像大多数巴西人一样，我听到美国政府可能已经掌握了我的电脑和电话数据也很恼火。但好的一面是，我希望他们能一直保留我的文件备份，因为几个月前我才发现，我怎么也找不到电脑上的一段重要视频了（奥巴马先生，如果你正在读这篇文章，请尽快把文件“summer2012.wmv”发给我）。
The United States has suggested that its interception of data also aims to protect other nations against terrorism. But Ms. Rousseff had an answer for that, too: “Brazil, Mr. President, knows how to protect itself.”
美国表示，截取这些数据也是为了保护其他国家不遭受恐怖主义袭击。但罗塞夫对此做了回应，“总统先生，巴西知道如何保护自己。”
The country’s strategy on that matter does not limit itself to diplomatic grumpiness. Ms. Rousseff has also proposed establishing “a civilian multilateral framework for the governance and use of the Internet.” It would ensure “freedom of expression, security and respect for human rights” by protecting personal information online.
在重要问题上，巴西的战略并不仅限于在外交领域展示坏脾气。罗塞夫已经提出过，要建立“一个民用的多边框架，用于治理和利用互联网”。它将通过保护网上个人信息，来确保“表达自由，安全和对人权的尊重”。
But for now, we citizens have our own plan. It has become something of a joke among my friends in Brazil to, whenever you write a personal e-mail, include a few polite lines addressed to the agents of the N.S.A., wishing them a good day or a Happy Thanksgiving. Sometimes I’ll add a few extra explanations and footnotes about the contents of the message, summarizing it and clarifying some of the Portuguese words that could be difficult to translate.
但暂时来说，我们这些民众也有自己的计划。在巴西的朋友中，这已经成为了一个玩笑：每当你写一封私人电邮时，都可以添几句写给NSA特工看的客套话，祝愿他们度过美好的一天或感恩节快乐。有时我会为正文内容添加一些额外的解释和注脚，用来概括全文，并解释一些可能比较难翻译的葡萄牙语单词。
Other people have gone so far as to send nonsensical e-mails just to confuse N.S.A. agents. For example: first use some key words to attract their surveillance filters, like “chemical brothers,” “chocolate bombs” or “stop holding my heart hostage, my emotions are like a blasting of fundamentalist explosion” (one of my personal favorites, inspired by an online sentence-generator designed to confound the N.S.A.).
更有甚者，一些人发出荒谬不经的电邮，纯粹只是为了迷惑NSA特工。例如：先使用一些关键词来吸引NSA监控筛选器的注意，比如“化学兄弟”、“巧克力炸弹”或“不要再把我的心当作人质，我的感情就像是原教旨主义者引爆的炸弹。”（这是我个人最爱的句子之一，灵感来自于一个专门用来扰乱NSA视听的“在线句子生成器”）。
Then write indiscriminately to friends and acquaintances about serious stuff like: how Doc Brown stole plutonium from Libyan nationalists, or why poor Godzilla had to attack the City of New York. It is recommended to act as crazy as possible, in order to raise questions about your secret intentions.
接着，你再胡乱给朋友和熟人写一些重大信息，比如，“布朗博士是如何从利比亚民族主义者那里偷走了钚”，或者“为什么可怜的哥斯拉必须去攻击纽约市”。有人建议写得越疯狂越好，以便让NSA怀疑你有什么不可告人的企图。
I call this tactic “vaca louca.” (The term comes from mad cow disease, though it could also refer to a Brazilian song called “Levada louca” (“crazy rhythm”) by Ivete Sangalo, which most of us originally misheard as “A vaca louca” — but I’m digressing here.)
我把这称为“疯牛病”战术（vaca louca，这个词来自于疯牛病，不过它也可以指伊万特·桑格罗[Ivete Sangalo]唱过的一首巴西歌曲《疯狂节奏》[Levada louca]，大多数人最初都把歌名听错成了“A vaca louca”——我有点说离题了）。
All this is to say that I found the news earlier this month about the actions of a group of Brazilian hackers perfectly appropriate. In an attempt to protest the N.S.A.’s surveillance programs, they accidentally attacked NASA’s Web site.
总之我要说的就是，我本月早些时候看到了一则新闻，它使用这个词十分贴切。这则新闻是：一群巴西黑客为了抗议NSA的监控活动，不小心攻击了美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的网站。
It’s all part of our Mad Cow Retaliation Plan.
这绝对是我们的“疯牛报复计划”的一个组成部分。