OMAHA — The investor and philanthropist Warren Buffett unleashed a withering attack on Donald J. Trump on Monday for refusing to release his tax returns, asserting he had something to hide, and for misleading voters about his success as a businessman and ability to improve the American economy.
奥马哈——周一，投资家、慈善家沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)发起了猛烈攻击，称特朗普拒绝公布纳税申报说明他一定有要隐瞒的东西，还批评特朗普称自己有成功商人的经历和改善美国经济的能力，是在误导选民。
Mr. Buffett, known to investors as the Sage of Omaha, said a monkey throwing darts at the stock pages in 1995, when Mr. Trump first offered stock in his Atlantic City hotels, would have come out far ahead of anyone who listened to Mr. Trump’s “siren song” and invested in his company that lost money year over year.
在投资者中以“奥马哈圣人”闻名的巴菲特说，在特朗普首次发行其大西洋城酒店股票的1995年，靠对股票表扔飞镖选择投资的猴子，也会比那些听了特朗普的“蛊惑言辞”、投资了他的公司的人挣来多得多的钱，特朗普的公司年复一年地亏损。
The attack from perhaps the nation’s most revered investor undercut a core argument of Mr. Trump’s presidential candidacy: that his success as a businessman qualified him to run the country despite his lack of political experience.
巴菲特也许是全美最受尊敬的投资者，这个来自他的攻击，削弱了特朗普作为总统候选人的一个核心理由：那就是，尽管他缺乏治理国家的政治经验，他作为商人的成功让他有资格担任总统。
Mr. Buffett appeared at a rally with Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, in his hometown, Omaha. Taking on Mr. Trump, he pledged to personally transport 10 Nebraskans to the polls on Election Day on behalf of Mrs. Clinton and urged others to do the same.
在自己的家乡奥马哈，巴菲特与民主党候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)一起参加了一个集会。为了打败特朗普，巴菲特承诺，他将代表克林顿在大选日亲自开车把10名内布拉斯加选民送到投票站，并鼓励其他人也这样做。
His appearance made him the latest billionaire to come out strongly against Mr. Trump’s candidacy — after speeches by Michael R. Bloomberg at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia and by Mark Cuban over the weekend — as Mrs. Clinton enlists their support to question Mr. Trump’s business acumen.
他的出面，使其成为公开强烈反对特朗普总统侯选人身份的最新一位亿万富翁，在他之前，迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)在费城的民主党全国代表大会上发表过演讲，马克·库班(Mark Cuban)也在周末讲了类似的话，在质疑特朗普的商业头脑上，克林顿争取到了这些亿万富翁的支持。
Mrs. Clinton was campaigning in Nebraska — a traditionally Republican state — as she sought to seize on momentum from the Democratic convention last week. On Monday, a CBS News poll, the first major national telephone survey after her nomination, showed her enjoying a bump since Republicans nominated Mr. Trump. They were tied at 42 percent after the Republican National Convention, but she now leads him, 46 percent to 39 percent.
随着克林顿寻求抓住上周的民主党全国代表大会所带来的有利势头，她正在内布拉斯加州进行竞选活动，该州传统上支持共和党。周一，CBS新闻在她接受提名后进行了首次全国范围的电话民意调查，结果显示，自共和党提名特朗普以来，她的支持率出现了反弹。在共和党全国代表大会之后，他们两人享有同样42％的支持率，但现在，克林顿的支持率为46％，领先于特朗普的39％。
By campaigning in Nebraska, Mrs. Clinton was trying to pick up support in one of just two states that allocate electoral votes by congressional district.
通过内布拉斯加州的竞选活动，克林顿试图在该州赢得支持，内布拉斯加是全国仅有的按国会议员选区分配选举人票的两个州之一。
In 2008, Barack Obama won a single electoral vote in the state’s Second District against Senator John McCain, though he lost it in 2012 in his more closely fought re-election race against Mitt Romney.
2008年，在与参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)的较量中，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)赢得了内布拉斯加第二选区的唯一一张选举人票，但在2012年的总统连任竞选中与米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)角逐时，奥巴马失去了这张选举人票。
In his address introducing Mrs. Clinton to the crowd, Mr. Buffett pointed out what most in the audience at a high school gym knew: that their votes could be disproportionately influential because of the state’s peculiar Electoral College system.
在向人群介绍克林顿的讲话中，巴菲特指出，这个高中体育馆里的大多数听众都知道：因为该州特有的选举人制度，他们的选票可能具有不成比例的影响力。
“We live in a very special place,” Mr. Buffett said.
“我们生活在一个非常特别的地方，”巴菲特说。
Noting that Jonathan Karl of ABC News predicted on Sunday that the Electoral College could come down to a 269-to-269 tie, Mr. Buffett said, “I am looking at the people that can change that 269 to 270.”
他提到ABC新闻的乔纳森·卡尔(Jonathan Karl)周日的预测，卡尔称这次大选的选举人票可能会以269对269平分，巴菲特说，“我眼前的这些人能把那269票变为270票。”
Mr. Buffett harshly criticized Mr. Trump for claiming that he had made “sacrifices” by building buildings and working hard, an argument he made after Khizr Khan, the Muslim father of an Army captain killed in Iraq, said during a speech at the Democratic convention, that Mr. Trump had “sacrificed nothing” for the country.
巴菲特严厉批评特朗普称他盖大楼并努力工作，就是做出了“牺牲”，这是特朗普反驳在伊拉克阵亡的陆军上尉的穆斯林父亲希兹尔·汗(Khizr Khan)的说法，希兹尔·汗在民主党全国代表大会上讲话时说：特朗普没有为国家“牺牲过任何东西”。
Mr. Buffett said he, like Mr. Trump, had made a lot of money. “I have not sacrificed,” he told the rally.
巴菲特说，他和特朗普一样赚了很多钱。他告诉参加集会的人，“我还没有做出过牺牲。”
“How in the world can you stand up to a couple of parents who lost a son and talk about sacrificing because you were building a bunch of buildings?”
“你怎么可能站出来反对那对失去了儿子的夫妇，在他们面前谈论牺牲，只因为你盖过一堆楼？”
Mr. Buffett quoted a famous rejoinder to Senator Joseph McCarthy during his 1950s anti-Communist hearings: “Have you no sense of decency, sir?”
巴菲特引用了在20世纪50年代参议员约瑟夫·麦卡锡(Joseph McCarthy)召开的反共产主义听证会上，有人驳斥麦卡锡的一句名言：“先生，难道你没有一点廉耻之心吗？”
Mr. Trump was campaigning on Monday in Ohio and Pennsylvania, two swing states that Mrs. Clinton visited over the weekend and where Mr. Trump is pushing his anti-trade message hard.
周一，特朗普在俄亥俄州和宾夕法尼亚州进行竞选活动，大力宣扬自己反贸易的观点，克林顿周末也去过那两个摇摆州。
Although Mr. Romney won all but one of Nebraska’s 93 counties four years ago, the Clinton campaign sees opportunity this election cycle. The Second District sent a Democrat, Representative Brad Ashford, to Congress in 2014, and he was one of the rare members of his party to unseat an incumbent during a Republican wave.
尽管罗姆尼四年前赢得了内布拉斯加州93个县中92个的选票，但在本届大选中，克林顿的竞选团队在该州仍看到了机会。该州的第二选区在2014年的众议员选举中，把民主党人布拉德·阿什福德(Brad Ashford)送进了国会，在共和党占上风的时候，阿什福德是把在任者赶下台的罕见民主党党员之一。
Maine is the only other state to split its electoral votes. In a reverse image of Nebraska, Mr. Trump’s campaign hopes to pick up a vote in more conservative, rural northern Maine.
缅因州是另外一个将选举人票按选区分别计算的州。与内布拉斯加州正相反，特朗普的竞选班子希望能在缅因州北部比较保守的农业选区赢得一张选举人票。
The Clinton campaign hired a Nebraska state director about a month ago, when it also started spending precious resources on TV ads in the state.
克林顿的竞选班子在大约一个月前聘任了一位内布拉斯加州竞选主管，也从那时开始在该州的电视广告上投入了宝贵的资源。
“There’s serious dollars and I would say serious politicos who have been hired,” said Jane Kleeb, the incoming chairwoman of the Nebraska Democratic Party.
即将出任内布拉斯加州民主党委员会主席的简·克里博(Jane Kleeb)说，“那可是好大一笔钱，我也可以说，聘来的人也是了不起的政客。”
At the Philadelphia convention, Ms. Kleeb helped mollify and motivate delegates supporting Senator Bernie Sanders, who carried the Nebraska caucuses during the primary race.
在费城的党代会上，克里博帮助安抚和鼓励了支持参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的代表，桑德斯在初选中赢得了内布拉斯加州预选大会上的多数票。
More than 1,000 people snaked back and forth in a parking lot to hear Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Buffett. Among those awaiting the speakers was Jim Magill, a retired chief master sergeant in the Air Force. A Republican, he said he supported Mrs. Clinton and did not believe Mr. Trump’s promises to veterans.
为了聆听克林顿和巴菲特的发言，超过1000人在一个停车场里排起了长队。已经退役的空军总军士长吉姆·麦吉尔(Jim Magill)也在等待演讲者的人群中。身为共和党人的他自称支持克林顿，并不相信特朗普对退伍军人的承诺。
He was appalled, he said, about the Republican nominee’s criticism of the Khans.
他说，这位共和党总统提名人对汗夫妇的批评让他感到震惊。
“It was deplorable somebody would say anything like that about a veteran who died for his country to his parents,” Mr. Magill said. “He should have been slapped.”
“居然有人对一位为祖国献出生命的老兵的父母说这种话，真是可悲，”麦吉尔说。“应该给他一巴掌。”