SÃO PAULO, Brazil — By now, Brazil should probably have been grounded for life, without video games or dessert.
巴西圣保罗——此时此刻，巴西应该已经被终身禁足了吧，不能玩电子游戏，也不能吃甜点。
Last month, a vice president of the International Olympic Committee, John Coates, said that Rio de Janeiro’s preparations for the 2016 Summer Olympics were the worst he had ever seen.
上个月，国际奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)副主席约翰·科茨(John Coates)表示，里约热内卢的2016年夏季奥运会筹备工作是他见过的中最糟的。
Before that, Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA — the Federation of International Football Associations — claimed that Brazil was further behind in its preparations for this summer’s World Cup than any previous host nation, even though it had had seven full years to prepare. Then, in March, FIFA’s secretary general, Jérôme Valcke, declared we could risk being “the worst organizers” of the “worst event.” He had previously said that Brazil needed “a kick up the backside.”
在此之前，国际足联（Federation of International Football Associations，简称FIFA）主席赛普·布拉特(Sepp Blatter)也说，巴西为今夏世界杯开展的准备工作，跟以往任何一届世界杯的主办国相比，落后的差距已经拉大，尽管它有整整七年的筹备时间。然后，今年3月，国际足联的秘书长秘书长杰罗姆·瓦尔克(Jérôme Valcke)说巴西可能会成为“史上最糟糕赛事”的“最糟糕组织者”。他此前曾表示，“需要对巴西的屁股踢上一脚。”
Well, that was harsh. Brazilians, long treated as obedient children on the world stage, have always submitted to the superior wisdom of foreign authorities. Fifty years ago, after President João Goulart was deposed by a right-wing military coup, the American presence in our political scene was so conspicuous that a humorist announced a mock-campaign for the United States ambassador: “Enough of middlemen — Lincoln Gordon for president!”
话说得是够难听的了。巴西人长期被视为世界舞台上的乖孩子，一直追随外国权威的超群智慧。50年前，当巴西总统若奥·古拉特(João Goulart)在右翼军事政变中被废黜时，美国的存在感在我们的政治生活中如此夺目，以至于一位幽默作家宣布为美国驻巴西大使举办一个假冒的竞选活动：“不要中间人——直接让林肯·戈登(Lincoln Gordon)当总统！”
Later, in the ’80s and ’90s, we quietly complied with the austerity and debt restructuring programs imposed by the International Monetary Fund — even if they meant the undermining of our national sovereignty and the suffering of the poor. We didn’t even complain when Rihanna came here for a concert and supposedly asked for everything yellow to be removed from her dressing room.
后来，上世纪80年代和90年代，我们默不作声地遵守国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）强加的财政紧缩和债务重组方案——即使这意味着我们国家主权被削弱，穷人受苦受难。据说蕾哈娜(Rihanna)来这里开演唱会时，要求她的更衣室里不得有任何黄颜色的东西，就连这我们都没有抱怨过。
We’re famous for being an easygoing nation that happily gives away some of its oil field exploration rights to foreign companies. We’re friendly, acquiescent and cheerful. We like to please.
我们国家是出了名地随和，会高高兴兴地把一些油田开采权奉送给外国公司。我们友好、顺从、开朗。我们喜欢讨好别人。
But there’s a growing feeling that FIFA and the Olympic committee are taking the demanding parent act a bit too far.
但是我们越来越觉得，正在扮演苛刻父母角色的国际足联和奥委会有点太过分了。
We try to behave ourselves for Mommy FIFA, especially in front of visitors. When she wanted beer served inside the stadiums, we amended our laws to allow it. When she asked for tax exemptions for herself and for her service providers, we consented. When she required that we ask her permission to host traditional street festivities like São João’s during the event, we complied.
为了国际足联老妈，我们试图好好表现，特别是在来访者面前。老妈希望场馆里面能卖啤酒，我们就为此修订了自己的法律。老妈要求为她自己和她的服务提供商豁免税务，我们同意了。老妈要求我们只有在获得她的许可后，才能在世界杯期间举办传统的街头庆祝活动，比如圣若昂的那个，我们也服从了。
So far we’ve spent around $12 billion to please her, of which more than 85 percent comes from public funds, including tax exemptions. We’ve evicted citizens from their homes to build stadiums and related infrastructure, and created strict security zones around the venues. We’ve diligently repressed those who protested against the mega-event, firing tear gas on unarmed people and attempting to charge them as terrorists. We’ve tried to convince ourselves that this is going to be a huge economic opportunity, despite lots of evidence to the contrary. And yet FIFA is never satisfied.
到目前为止，我们已经花了大约120亿美元讨好她，其中逾85%来自公共资金，包括税收减免。我们把公民从自己的家园中驱逐出去，以便修建体育场馆和相关基础设施，并在场地周围建立了严密的安全区。我们一直努力压制那些抗议举办大型活动的人，还对手无寸铁的人民发射催泪弹，试图指控他们是恐怖分子。我们试图说服自己，这是一个巨大的经济机会，尽管很多证据显示并非如此。然而国际足联永远都不知足。
It’s no use complaining to the International Olympic Committee, since it’s playing the role of Daddy in this family drama. He also disapproves of everything we do: He complained about construction delays, criticized the pollution in Rio’s waterways and said we were even worse than Greece, before the 2004 Summer Olympics. “Your older sister had better grades,” we heard him say.
向国际奥委会投诉是没有用的，因为它在这部家庭大戏中扮演爸爸的角色。他也不满意我们做的一切：他抱怨施工延误，里约的水道存在污染，说我们比希腊在2004年举办夏季奥运会之前还糟糕。“你姐姐成绩比你好，”我们听见他说。
It’s as if they were both expecting a classical pianist and all they got was a punk rocker who knows only three-chord songs. Well, if they wanted punctuality, maybe they should have chosen the Germans or the Swiss to host their events. We Brazilians are slightly different.
这就好像他们希望我们是古典钢琴家，但我们却成了朋克乐手，一首歌就三个和弦那种。好吧，如果他们希望准时完工，也许他们应该选择德国或瑞士举办他们的活动。我们巴西人略有不同。
Last month, Mário Gobbi, the president of the Corinthians soccer team (which owns Itaquera Stadium, one of the World Cup venues), claimed that delays were part of the Brazilian way of life. “I don’t know of any renovation or construction project that went on schedule,” he said in an interview.
科林蒂安(Corinthians)足球俱乐部是圣保罗体育场（Iraquera Stadium，世界杯的比赛场地之一）的所有者。上个月，科林蒂安的主席马里奥·戈比(Mário Gobbi)说，拖延是巴西人生活方式的一部分。他在一次采访中说，“我还不知道哪个翻修或建筑工程是按时完工的。”
I’ll give one example: The subway system in Salvador, a city in Bahia state, on our northeast coast, has been under construction since 1997. The government has spent more than $450 million for four miles of tracks, which will be ready to operate on June 11, one day before the World Cup opening. (Two years ago, the Federal Court of Auditors found evidence that $180 million of the project’s money had been lost to overbilling and embezzlement, but the matter is still under investigation. Bahia’s Court of Justice has also indicted a number of businessmen for illicit association, formation of cartels and bid rigging.)
我举个例子：巴伊亚州萨尔瓦多市的地铁系统从1997年开始就一直在建设当中。为了四英里长的地铁轨道，政府已经花费了超过4.5亿美元。这段地铁将在世界杯开幕前一天的6月11日准备好投入运营。（两年前，联邦审计院[Federal Court of Auditors]发现，有证据显示，该项目共浪费和挪用了1.8亿美元的资金，但这件事仍在调查之中。巴伊亚的法院还起诉了几名商人，罪名是非法联手、组建垄断联盟，以及串通投标。）
Another: 22 years ago I worked on a petition to clean up the Tietê River, in São Paulo. Today, $1.6 billion and more than one million signatures later, it still stinks.
还有一个例子：22年前，我起草了一份关于清理圣保罗铁特河的请愿书。如今，签名已经收集了超过100万个，钱也花了16亿美元，铁特河仍然是臭烘烘的。
In Brazil it takes 13 bureaucratic procedures — required signatures and forms and the like — and 107.5 working days to open a business, according to a recent report from the World Bank. Construction permits take 400 days to get issued, and you need to wait 58 days more just to get electricity flowing.
根据世界银行最近的一份报告，在巴西开办一家企业需要经过13道官方手续——必需的签字、表格等等，并等待107.5个工作日。施工许可需要400天才能批下来，还要再等58天，工地才能通上电。
It once took a man in Bahia four years to schedule a common diagnostic test called a uroflowmetry at a public hospital.
在巴伊亚州，曾有一名男子花了四年时间才在公立医院约到一次常规尿流率检查。
So FIFA and the I.O.C. can scold all they like: We still won’t be finished until the last minute. And when it is finally done, there will be budget overruns and even a few workplace accidents. As Mr. Gobbi warned, nonsensically, when celebrating the end of construction on the Itaquera Stadium: “Among the dead and wounded, everybody survived.”
因此，国际足联和奥委会想怎么批评都可以：我们仍要等到最后一刻才会完工。最终完工时，预算会超标，甚至会发生几起安全事故。正如戈比在庆祝圣保罗体育场竣工时那句荒诞的告诫：“虽有死有伤，但大家都活下来了。”