BELO HORIZONTE, Brazil — The fireworks began at dawn. All around this city, loud pops and bangs rang out as men and women and children dressed in yellow set off flares and beeped car horns. It was supposed to be a magical day. The Brazilian national soccer team, playing at home, was one game away from a World Cup final.
巴西贝洛哈里桑塔——焰火从黎明时分开始绽放。身着黄色球衣的男女老少点亮烟花、按响汽车喇叭，整座城市四处轰鸣着流行音乐和重击声。这本应是非同寻常的一天。在主场比赛的巴西国家足球队只要再赢一场比赛，就能打入世界杯决赛。
No one could have guessed the tears would come before halftime. No one could have imagined there would be flags burning in the streets before dinner. Certainly no one could have envisioned that Brazilian fans, watching their team play in a semifinal, would ever consider leaving the stadium long before the end of the game.
没人料到，半场结束的哨声尚未响起，泪水就会来袭。没人预想，晚饭之前会有人在大街上燃烧国旗。当然，也没有人想到，正在观看本国球队踢半决赛的巴西球迷，竟然会考虑在远不到比赛结束的时候就离开球场。
It all happened. The 2014 World Cup, first plagued by questions about financing and protests and infrastructure and construction, then buoyed by scads of goals and dramatic finishes and a contagious spirit of exuberance and joy from the locals, will ultimately be remembered for this: the home team, on the precipice of glory, being throttled like an overmatched junior varsity squad that somehow stumbled into the wrong game.
这些都成了事实。2014年的世界杯，一开始深受资金、抗议、基础设施和工程建设等问题所困扰，而后却一飞冲天，涌现了大量的进球和戏剧化的结果，洋溢着当地人迸发的那种具有传染性的热情和欢乐精神。不过，2014年最终将被人铭记的是：东道主在离荣耀仅咫尺之遥的时候，竟被打得落花流水，就像莫名其妙地卷入一场错误比赛的青少年校园队伍在对付实力悬殊的对手。
The final score was Germany 7, Brazil 1. It felt like Germany 70, Brazil 1. By the end, the Germans were barely celebrating their goals, and the Brazilians, starting with their coach, Luiz Felipe Scolari, could manage little more than blank stares. In the stands, the Brazilian fans — the ones who stayed around, at least — passed the time by cycling through obscene chants about each player as well as the Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff.
最后德国打进7粒进球，巴西打进1粒。感觉就像是70比1。后来，德国人几乎已不再庆祝进球，而巴西人，只能像他们的教练路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari)一样，眼神迷茫。看台上的巴西球迷——至少那些还没有离开的人——消磨时间的方式是，用污言秽语轮番辱骂每名球员，以及巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)。
“It was the biggest embarrassment of all World Cups,” said one fan, Marcel Guimarães, 38, who came from Brasília. “7–1 in a semifinal playing at home — not even in a video game.”
“这是世界杯所有比赛中最令人难堪的一次，”来自巴西利亚的38岁球迷马塞尔·吉马良斯(Marcel Guimarães)说。“在主场的半决赛中打出1比7的结果——连电子游戏中都不会这样。”
Josiane Artis, 27, who was working as a paramedic in the stadium, said: “This was terrible. An embarrassment. It was painful. Painful.”
在赛场担任急救护理人员的27岁的若西亚尼·阿尔蒂斯(Josiane Artis)说：“太可怕了。太难堪了。太令人痛苦了。痛苦啊。”
The displeasure was hardly surprising. Sports are often a haven of hyperbole, but there was little risk of that here. Given the circumstances and the stakes, this result — a soccer massacre of the highest order — may well be remembered as the most surprising in World Cup history.
这种悲伤并不令人惊讶。体育比赛中不乏各种夸张说法，但是这一次，却几乎算不上夸大。鉴于当时的情况和利害关系，这个结果——足球比赛中最惨烈的屠杀之一——很可能将会作为世界杯历史中最令人震惊的一场比赛而被人铭记。
“What we saw here today was history,” said Luter Ludmer, 42, from Argentina.
“我们今天在这里见证了历史，”来自阿根廷的42岁的卢特尔·卢德梅尔(Luter Ludmer)说。
At the very minimum, it will go down as Brazil’s worst loss, the margin matching a 6-0 loss to Uruguay in 1920. It was also Brazil’s first loss in a competitive game at home since 1975, a stretch of more than 14,000 days, and will surely be remembered as even more embarrassing than the 1950 defeat in the World Cup — also against Uruguay — that denied the Brazilians a championship the last time they hosted the sport’s biggest tournament.
至少，它将成为巴西最惨痛的一次失败，比分差距与1920年以0比6输给乌拉圭时一样悬殊。这也是自1975年来，巴西首次在本土的竞争性比赛中吃败仗，打破了延续1万4000多天的主场不败纪录。它肯定会被人们铭记，甚至比巴西上一次举办世界杯时的失利更令人感到难堪。当时，巴西人同样输给了乌拉圭队，与1950年的冠军失之交臂。
The record will show that Brazil played this match without its top scorer, Neymar, who was injured in the quarterfinals, as well as without its top defender, the captain Thiago Silva, who was suspended. As important as both players were to Brazil, however, it is difficult to imagine either one having made much of a difference.
在这场将被载入史册的比赛中，巴西队的头号射手内马尔(Neymar)及顶级后卫队长蒂亚戈·席尔瓦(Thiago Silva)缺席。前者在四分之一决赛中受伤，后者则遭停赛。这两名球员均是巴西队的核心，但很难想象，其中任何一人能扭转战局。
The Germans were merciless, playing with grace and unity and a raw power that saw them rip open the Brazilian defense as if it were a can of soup. Thomas Müller opened the scoring in the 11th minute, blasting home a corner kick from just six yards out. Miroslav Klose followed about 12 minutes later, knocking in a rebound to record his 16th career World Cup goal and become the tournament’s all-time leading scorer.
德国人球风优雅、团结一致，气势汹汹，探囊取物般冷酷地撕裂了巴西的防线。托马斯·穆勒(Thomas Müller)在第11分钟首开纪录，在球门前六码（约合5.5米）处接角球攻破球门。大约12分钟后，米洛斯拉夫·克洛泽(Miroslav Klose)以反弹球破门，打进了他在世界杯比赛中的第16粒进球，成为赛事历史上总进球数最多的球员。
By then, the mood at the Estádio Mineirão had deflated, but the fans had no idea what was yet to come. In the next six minutes, Germany scored three more goals — a stretch roughly equivalent to a boxer landing three uppercuts in a row in the first round — which ended the match before a half-hour had even been played.
到这时候，米内罗体育场已然气氛压抑，但球迷们并不知道，等待他们的将会是什么。在接下来的六分钟里，德国队又攻入三球——大致上相当于拳击手在首轮对抗中即连续打出三记上勾拳——在开赛不到半个小时的时间里，就锁定了胜局。