BELO HORIZONTE, Brazil — Brazil’s national soccer team is the embodiment of the beautiful game, an 11-man samba performance that dazzles fans of any country and leaves its opponents both flummoxed and flat-footed.
巴西贝洛哈里桑塔——巴西国家足球队代表着“漂亮足球”的理念，带来的是11人参与的桑巴舞表演，让所有国家的球迷眼花缭乱，也让其对手感到困惑和手足无措。
Or is it?
事实果真如此吗？
The 2014 World Cup, which happens to be playing out on Brazil’s own stage, has dispelled one of sports’ most entrenched (if somewhat mythical) beliefs: that Brazilian soccer is a showcase of tempo and timbre designed, above all else, to enthrall and entertain.
2014年的世界杯恰巧在巴西本土举行，这次比赛消除了人们对这项运动最为虚无缥缈、却又根深蒂固的一个看法：巴西足球是速度与水平的展示，为的就是让人着迷和快乐。
In truth, Brazil plays a rather ugly version of soccer these days, unapologetically pursuing that which every other team in the world chases: wins.
事实上，这些日子里，巴西的足球踢得十分难看。它也在毫不歉疚地追求着世界其他球队所追求的东西：胜利。
It is working, too. While o jogo bonito may be dead, few here are mourning — least of all the fans who will pack the Estádio Mineirão on Tuesday when Brazil faces Germany in the semifinals, two victories away from its record sixth World Cup title.
这也挺有效的。“漂亮足球”(jogo bonito)或许已经不在，但这里没有几个人在表示哀悼——尤其是那些周二当巴西在半决赛中对阵德国时，将坐满米内罗体育场(Estádio Mineirão)的球迷。巴西只要再打赢两场比赛，就能获得它历史上的第六个世界杯冠军。
There is little beauty here. Brazil has recorded the most fouls of any team in the tournament. It has played rough and rugged, raw and resolute. It spills blood. It clogs the field. If you want to see dynamic Brazilian playmakers dancing gracefully around the Germans, you will be disappointed.
它的比赛并不漂亮。巴西在本届世界杯中犯规的次数比其他任何球队都多。它表现得粗暴而野蛮，生硬而决绝。它会让血染赛场，满场围追堵截。如果你想看到巴西队中充满活力的进攻组织球员围绕着德国人翩然起舞，你肯定会大失所望。
“Jogo bonito today is not in existence,” Bira Brasil Lima, a soccer commentator for TV Globo, said in an interview. “It is an old mentality. Every team that has come along recently has gotten farther and farther away from it.”
“如今，漂亮足球已不复存在，”环球电视台(TV Globo)的足球评论员比拉·布拉西尔·利马(Bira Brasil Lima)在采访中说。“这是一种老派思维。最近出现的每支队伍都离这个标准越来越远。”
Brazilians do not actually use the term jogo bonito, which became globally popular only in the late 1970s after Pelé included it as part of the title of his autobiography. Instead, they refer to futebol arte, or artistic football. Futebol arte is glamorous and flowing, a sort of athletic symphony that “makes Brazilians feel happy and proud because it reflects their national characteristics,” said Alex Bellos, an author who wrote “Futebol: The Brazilian Way of Life.”
巴西人其实不说“漂亮足球”。这个说法只在20世纪70年代晚期，当贝利(Pelé)把它作为自传标题的一部分时，才开始在世界上流行起来。巴西人喜欢说“艺术足球”(futebol arte)。艺术足球魅力四射、流畅而优雅，这种运动的交响乐“让巴西人感到高兴和自豪，因为它反映了巴西人的民族特性，”《足球：巴西的生活方式》(Futebol: The Brazilian Way of Life)的作者亚历克斯·贝洛(Alex Bellos)说。
The opposite of futebol arte, Bellos continued, is futebol força — or, roughly, power football. That is what this Brazilian team has demonstrated throughout the World Cup and especially in the knockout rounds, where it just managed a Round of 16 victory over Chile and followed that up with a contentious, ultimately brutal, quarterfinal win over Colombia.
贝洛还说，艺术足球的反面是futebol força，大概可以译为“力量足球”(power football)。本届世界杯中，这才是巴西队的一贯风格，尤其是在淘汰赛阶段。当时，它在一场16进8的比赛中险胜智利，之后又在四分之一决赛中以充满争议和极其残酷的方式击败哥伦比亚。
In the quarterfinal, both teams engaged in a game riddled by fouls (Brazil committed 31 of the 54) that was punctuated by a bad injury to Neymar, the Brazilian superstar, who sustained a fractured vertebra after being kneed in the back by a Colombian midfielder. On Monday, Thiago Silva, Brazil’s captain, called the foul that felled Neymar a “coward tackle,” but he and his teammates have hardly hesitated to play rough over the past few weeks.
在四分之一决赛中，两队都频繁犯规（共计54次，其中巴西犯规31次），巴西足球巨星内马尔(Neymar)的严重受伤引起了高度关注。比赛中，一名哥伦比亚中场球员用膝盖冲顶了内马尔的后背，导致内马尔腰椎骨裂。周一，巴西国家足球队队长蒂亚戈·席尔瓦(Thiago Silva)说此次犯规是对内马尔的一次“懦夫式抢断”，但是他和他的队友在过去几周的比赛中丝毫没有避讳粗暴行为。
Being physical with an opponent’s best skill player is de rigueur in soccer these days, and Brazil did the same against Colombia’s star, James Rodríguez. There is likely to be a similar approach against Germany’s plethora of playmakers; one could argue, in fact, that Germany — with creative midfielders like Thomas Müller, Bastian Schweinsteiger and Toni Kroos — plays the most flowing football of any team left in the tournament.
当下，对对方球队技术最好的球员展开强硬对抗的现象已变得司空见惯。巴西也对哥伦比亚球星詹姆斯·罗德里格斯(James Rodríguez)使用了同样的策略。而且他们很可能会对德国组织进攻的球员采取相似策略；其实有人可能会说，德国队——拥有托马斯·米勒(Thomas Müller)、巴斯蒂安·施魏因斯泰格(Bastian Schweinsteiger)和托尼·克罗斯(Toni Kroos)等富有创造性的中场球员——是世界杯剩下的几支球队中踢得最流畅的一支球队。
Neymar, meanwhile, is expected to miss the rest of the World Cup, leaving Brazil without its most flamboyant player. His absence will be considerable on the field — he is the team’s top scorer — but he also leaves behind a hole of a more abstract kind.
同时，内马尔可能会错过余下的世界杯赛事，巴西也由此失去了队中最为耀眼的球员。他的缺席将对比赛造成重大影响——他是巴西队的头号射手——但他同时也留下了一个更加抽象的空洞。
“Neymar is loved not just because he is good,” Bellos said, “but because he made Brazil fall back in love with the old kind of football. He was the one player who represented that kind of football that older Brazilians like to remember.”
“人们喜欢内马尔不仅是因为他球踢得好，”贝洛说，“而是因为他使巴西重新爱上了老式足球。他是唯一能代表年纪较大的巴西人所喜欢的那种足球的球员。”
This has been a trend for Brazilian fans, who have been forced during recent World Cups to find vestiges of futebol arte in a lone player or two. The last Brazilian teams to play futebol arte as an entire unit are generally thought to be the 1982 and 1986 World Cup teams, which featured legends like Sócrates and Zico.
过去这些年的一个趋势就是，在近几届世界杯比赛中，巴西球迷只能在一两名球员身上寻找“艺术足球”的痕迹。人们普遍认为，巴西最后两支呈现“艺术足球”的球队是1982年和1986年的世界杯球队，当中出现了苏格拉底(Sócrates)和济科(Zico)等传奇人物。
Beginning at the 1990 World Cup, when Brazil was coached by Sebastião Lazaroni, the team began to play with a more rugged style, Lima said. Even when Brazil won the World Cup in 1994, purists were unhappy with the team’s methods. The strongest critics pointed to the way Brazil clinched the trophy — in a penalty shootout over Italy, and only after an Italian player missed — as a fittingly unpleasant coda to a championship that lacked beauty.
利马说，从1990年的世界杯开始，巴西队就开始使用较为粗粝的方式，当时的巴西队教练是塞巴斯蒂奥·拉扎罗尼(Sebastião Lazaroni)。即使当巴西队于1994年获得世界杯冠军时，纯粹主义者也对球队的方式感到不满。其中最强烈的批评声称，巴西队获得奖杯的方式——在点球大战中打败意大利，而且是在一名意大利球员射偏之后——给夺取冠军的过程画上了一个恰如其分、令人不快的句点，一点也不漂亮。