RIO DE JANEIRO — Brazil’s prosecutor general said over the weekend that he was preparing to indict at least 11 executives from the country’s largest construction companies on charges including bribery and money laundering, in connection with a graft scandal shaking Brazil’s oil industry and the government of President Dilma Rousseff.
里约热内卢——巴西总检察长在周末期间表示，他正在准备以行贿和洗钱等罪名起诉该国大型建筑公司的至少11名高层管理人员。他们涉及的腐败丑闻撼动了巴西的石油产业，以及总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)领导的政府。
In pressing ahead with the case, Rodrigo Janot, the prosecutor general, is opening the way for a trial that would focus scrutiny on growing testimony about a web of illicit dealings between former executives at Petrobras, the state-controlled oil company, powerful contractors and political figures in Ms. Rousseff’s government.
总检察长罗德里戈·雅诺特(Rodrigo Janot)做出的推进此案的决定，为相关审判开辟了道路。案件将重点审核越积越多的有关一个非法交易网络的证词。这些交易涉及曾在巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)任职的高管、势力强大的承包商，以及罗塞夫政府的官员。
“We are following the money and we will reach all of these perpetrators,” Mr. Janot said Saturday night in an interview with the Globo television network.
雅诺特周六晚间接受环球电视台(Globo)采访时说，“我们正在追踪钱财的来源，一定会揪出所有罪犯。”
The scandal, which involves claims of bribes to obtain contracts with Petrobras, stunned Brazil’s business establishment in November, when police arrested the executives and transferred them to a jail in the southern city of Curitiba. If testimony already obtained in the case is proven true, the case would dwarf previous corruption scandals in Brazil.
传闻称，有人为了获得巴西国家石油公司的合同而进行贿赂。这桩丑闻在今年11月爆发，令巴西商界震惊不已。警方逮捕了涉事高管，并将他们转移到了南部城市库里蒂巴的一座看守所。如果获得的证词最终得到证实，该案将一举超越巴西之前的所有腐败丑闻。
In a country where business executives rarely spend time in jail, corporate leaders including José Adelmário Pinheiro Filho, the chief executive of the construction giant OAS, and Dalton dos Santos Avancini and João Ricardo Auler, top executives at Camargo Corrêa, a rival construction group, have awaited their fate in the Curitiba jail since the mid-November arrests.
在巴西，很少出现企业高管被监押的情形。这一次，包括建筑巨头OAS的首席执行官若泽·阿德尔马洛·皮涅罗·菲约(José Adelmário Pinheiro Filho)和竞争对手卡马戈·科雷亚公司(Camargo Corrêa)的高管达尔顿·多斯桑托斯·阿万西尼(Dalton dos Santos Avancini)及若昂·里卡多·奥勒(João Ricardo Auler)在内的多名商界高层于11月中旬被捕，目前在库里蒂巴的看守所里等待着命运的安排。
Disclosures at each step in the case are shaking Petrobras, Brazil’s largest corporation, while opening Ms. Rousseff, the president and a former energy minister and the company’s former board chairwoman, to claims of responsibility for, at the very least, lax oversight.
这起案件的每一步进展都给身为该国最大企业的巴西国家石油公司带来震动。总统罗塞夫曾任能源部长，也是公司的前董事长。她因此面临着承担责任的问题，至少是要为监管松懈负责。
Pedro Barusco, once an obscure, third-tier executive at Petrobras, has agreed to return about $100 million in bribes related to his time at the company, a disclosure that could rank him among the largest known bribery recipients in Brazil’s history. Separately, Augusto Mendonça, an executive at Toyo Setal, a shipbuilding company, testified last week that he paid more than $23 million in bribes directly to the governing Workers Party and to Petrobras executives in exchange for contracts to build oil tankers.
原本默默无名的三级管理人员佩德罗·巴鲁斯科(Pedro Barusco)已经同意归还他在该公司任职期间收受的大约1亿美元（约合6.2亿元人民币）的贿赂。这一事实可能会使他跻身巴西历史上受贿金额最多的人物之列。在另一起案件中，造船企业Toyo Setal的高级管理人员奥古斯托·门都萨(Augusto Mendonça)上周作证，自己直接给予了执政党劳工党(Workers Party)及巴西国家石油公司逾2300万美元的贿赂，以换取建造油轮的合同。
A new opinion survey released on Sunday by Datafolha, a prominent Brazilian polling company, showed that 68 percent of Brazilians hold Ms. Rousseff responsible for the bribery scandal. At the same time, Ms. Rousseff, who narrowly won re-election in October, has an approval rating of 42 percent, the survey showed. The poll, conducted in 2,896 interviews on Dec. 2 and 3, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points.
巴西知名民调公司Datafolha周日公布的新民意调查结果显示，68%的受访者认为，罗塞夫本人应该为受贿丑闻负责。与此同时，调查显示，在今年10月以微弱优势赢得连任的罗塞夫目前的支持率为42%。Datafolha的此次调查在12月2日及3日进行，受访者有2896名，抽样误差为正负两个百分点。
Mr. Janot, the prosecutor general, came under pressure over the weekend after a report in the magazine Isto É claimed he had offered the contractors a deal in which they would accept responsibility for some illicit activities while effectively shielding Ms. Rousseff’s government from coming under greater legal scrutiny over bribery claims.
总检察长雅诺特周末期间承受了一定的压力，因为Isto É杂志之前报道，他已经与承包商达成协议。对方同意为一些违法行为负责，从而实质上保护罗塞夫政府，使其免遭有关受贿罪名的进一步法律审查。