The protests were heating up on the streets of Brazil’s largest city last week, but the mayor was not in his office. He was not even in the city. He had left for Paris to try to land the 2020 World’s Fair — exactly the kind of expensive, international mega-event that demonstrators nationwide have scorned.
上周，巴西最大城市的街头抗议活动持续升温，但市长却不在他的办公室。他甚至都不在这个城市。他已经前往巴黎，力图赢得2020年世界博览会(World’s Fair)的主办权，而正是这种花费高昂的大型国际活动令巴西举国上下的示威者厌恶、愤怒。
A week later, the mayor, Fernando Haddad, 50, was holed up in his apartment as scores of protesters rallied outside and others smashed the windows of his office building, furious that he had refused to meet with them, much less yield to their demand to revoke a contentious bus fare increase.
一周后，该市市长，50岁的费尔南多·哈达德(Fernando Haddad)被困在了自己的住所内，大量抗议者聚集在屋外，另一些人则砸碎了他办公室的窗户。市长拒绝与他们见面，更不用说听从他们的要求，取消充满争议的公交车涨价计划了。抗议者因此怒不可遏。
How such a rising star in the leftist governing party, someone whose name is often mentioned as a future presidential contender, so badly misread the national mood reflects the disconnect between a growing segment of the population and a government that prides itself on popular policies aimed at lifting millions out of poverty.
哈达德是左翼执政党的一颗新星，人们通常会认为他未来有望角逐总统一职，而他竟然会如此严重地误解民众的情绪。巴西政府为帮助数以百万计的民众脱离贫困，推行了很多政策。这些很受欢迎的政策让政府沾沾自喜，然而却有比例越来越大的巴西国民感到了与政府的脱节。哈达德的误判正反映了双方的这种割裂。
After rising to prominence on the backs of huge protests to usher in democratic leadership, the governing Workers Party now finds itself perplexed by the revolt in its midst, watching with dismay as political corruption, bad public services and the government’s focus on lifting Brazil’s international stature through events like the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympics inspire outrage.
执政的劳工党(Workers Party)是从催生了民主领导层的大规模抗议活动中崛起的，但它如今却置身于一场蓄势待发的民变当中困惑不已。巴西政治腐败、公共服务糟糕，政府却在集中力量希望通过举办2014年世界杯(World Cup)和2016年奥运会(Olympics)等活动来提升巴西的国际地位，抗议民众目睹着这样的景象，深感不满。
On Wednesday, tens of thousands protested outside the newly built stadium where Brazil faced off against Mexico in the Confederations Cup, as the police tried to disperse them with tear gas, rubber bullets and pepper spray. In what would normally be a moment of unbridled national pride, demonstrators held up placards demanding schools and hospitals at the “FIFA standard,” challenging the money Brazil is spending on the World Cup instead of on health care or the poorly financed public schools.
周三，在新建的体育场内，巴西队正在联合会杯(Confederations Cup)的比赛上与墨西哥队交锋，场外数万人在举行抗议活动，警察试图用催泪瓦斯、橡胶子弹和胡椒喷雾驱散人群。这原本应该是一个民族自豪感爆发的时刻，但示威者却举着标语牌，要求学校和医院达到“国际足联(FIFA)标准”。他们这是在抗议政府花钱举办世界杯，却不在医疗卫生或资金严重不足的公立学校上投资。
Now the authorities across Brazil are bracing for a new round of protests on Thursday, with one newspaper reporting that demonstrations are expected in more than 80 cities throughout the country — from big urban centers like São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro to Manaus in the Amazon and Teresina in the northeast.
周四，巴西各地政府都迎来了新一轮的抗议活动，一家报纸报道称，全国可能有80多个城市将出现示威活动，从圣保罗、里约热内卢等大城市到亚马孙州的马瑙斯及东北部的特雷西纳。
“We want the act to be bigger today,” said Tadeu Lemos, 22, a student leader at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, part of an organizing group that drew up various points to continue protesting, including having a voice over expenditures for the World Cup and the Olympics.
里约热内卢联邦大学(Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)22岁的学生领袖塔德坞·莱莫斯(Tadeu Lemos)说，“我们想让今天的活动规模更大。”他是一个示威活动组织团体的成员，他们会列出继续抗议的各种理由，其中包括要求对世界杯及奥运会的支出拥有发言权。
Security forces in various cities are preparing for a large turnout. In the capital, Brasília, police said they would cordon off access to buildings like the Congress, a structure that protesters were able to scale one night this week and dance on the roof, providing a shock to political leaders. And in Rio de Janeiro, banks boarded up windows while the authorities placed metal barriers in front of the governor’s palace.
各个城市的警力都正在准备好应对大量的示威人群。在首都巴西利亚，警方称他们将封锁国会等建筑的入口。抗议者在本周某一天的晚上爬上了国会大楼，并在楼顶跳舞，这让政治领袖们大惊失色。在里约热内卢，银行用木板封住窗户，而当局则在州长的官邸前设置了金属路障。
With support for the protests escalating — a new poll by Datafolha found that 77 percent of São Paulo residents approved of them this week, compared with 55 percent the week before — Mayor Haddad and Geraldo Alckmin, the governor of São Paulo State, from an opposition party, bowed on Wednesday night, announcing that they would cancel the bus and subway fare increases after all. Other cities, including Rio de Janeiro, pledged to do the same.
Datafolha的新民调显示，本周有77%的圣保罗居民支持抗议活动，而上周的支持率只有55%。随着抗议活动得到越来越多的支持，哈达德市长和来自反对党的圣保罗州州长热拉尔多·阿尔克明(Geraldo Alckmin)在周三夜间做出让步，终于宣布他们将取消公交、地铁的涨价计划。包括里约热内卢在内的其他城市也做出了同样的承诺。
But while the fare increases might have been the spark that incited the protests, they unleashed a much broader wave of frustration against politicians from an array of parties that the government has openly acknowledged it did not see coming.
然而，尽管公交车涨价可能是引发抗议的导火索，它却从更大范围释放了各种群体对政客们的失望情绪。连政府都公开承认，它没有料想到其中一些群体会心怀不满。
“It would be a presumption to think that we understand what is happening,” Gilberto Carvalho, a top aide to President Dilma Rousseff, told senators on Tuesday. “We need to be aware of the complexity of what is occurring.”
“认为我们理解正在发生的一切，这将是一种傲慢，”迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)总统的高级助手吉尔贝托·卡瓦略(Gilberto Carvalho)周二对参议员们说。“我们需要意识到当前局面的复杂性。”
The swell of anger is a stunning change from the giddy celebrations that occurred in 2007, when Brazil was chosen by soccer’s governing body to host the World Cup. At the time, dozens of climbers scaled Rio de Janeiro’s Sugar Loaf Mountain, from which they hung an enormous jersey with the words “The 2014 World Cup Is Ours.”
2007年，国际足联选择让巴西主办世界杯(World Cup)时，巴西国内举行了令人眼花缭乱的各种庆祝活动，而如今高涨的怒火则与之截然相反。那时，几十名登山者爬上里约热内卢的甜面包山，从山上挂起一件巨大的球衣，上面写着“2014年世界杯是我们的”(The 2014 World Cup Is Ours)。
“We are a civilized nation, a nation that is going through an excellent phase, and we have got everything prepared to receive adequately the honor to organize an excellent World Cup,” Ricardo Teixeira, then the president of the Brazilian Football Confederation, said at the time.
“我们是一个文明的国家，正在经历一个精彩的阶段，我们已经一切准备就绪，以良好的状态接受殊荣，举办一届精彩世界杯，”时任巴西足球协会(Brazilian Football Confederation)主席的里卡多·特谢拉(Ricardo Teixeira)当时说。
Since then, the sentiment surrounding Brazil’s preparations for the World Cup, and much else overseen by the government, has shifted. Mr. Teixeira himself resigned last year, under a cloud of corruption allegations, and while the Brazilian government says it is spending about $12 billion on preparing for the World Cup, most of the stadiums are over budget, according to the government’s own audits court.
自那时起，围绕着巴西筹备世界杯，以及其他许多政府管理的事务，人们的态度已经发生了改变。特谢拉本人已于去年因为腐败指控而辞职，虽然巴西政府表示会投入120亿美元（约合736亿元人民币）筹备世界杯，然而，根据政府自身的审计院统计，多数场馆的建设都超出了预算。
The sheen that once clung to the Workers Party has also been tarnished by a vast vote-buying scheme called the mensalão, or big monthly allowance, in a nod to the regular payments some lawmakers received. The scandal resulted in the recent conviction of several high-ranking officials, including a party president and a chief of staff for Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who was a popular Brazilian president.
而劳工党身上一度笼罩的光辉也因一场被称为mensalão（即“大额月度津贴”）的丑闻而黯淡了下来。这桩大规模的买票丑闻中，某些议员会定期收到钱，这些钱的目的是收买他们的赞成。这一丑闻致使近期几名高级别官员被定罪，包括一位党主席和受欢迎的前总统路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)的办公厅主任。
“There’s been a democratic explosion on the streets,” said Marcos Nobre, a professor at the University of Campinas. “The Workers Party thinks it represents all of the progressive elements in the country, but they’ve been power now for a decade. They’ve done a lot, but they’re now the establishment.”
“街头出现了民主的大爆发，”坎皮纳斯州立大学(University of Campinas)教授马科斯·诺布雷(Marcos Nobre)说。“劳工党认为，它代表了这个国家的所有进步力量，但他们已掌权十年。他们做了很多事，但他们现在已成了统治集团。”
The economic growth that once propelled Brazil’s global ambitions has slowed considerably, and inflation, a scourge for decades until the mid-1990s, has re-emerged as a worry for many Brazilians.
经济增长一度鼓舞着巴西的勃勃野心，但现在增长已明显放缓，而到20世纪90年代中期以前曾困扰巴西几十年的通货膨胀，又再度开始让许多巴西人感到担忧。
But expectations among Brazilians remain high, thanks in large part to the government’s own success at diminishing inequality and raising living standards for millions over the last decade. The number of university students doubled from 2000 to 2011, according to Marcelo Ridenti, a prominent sociologist.
然而，巴西人对未来的期望依然很高。这在很大程度上要归功于政府过去十年里，成功地减少了不平等，并提高了数以百万计人口的生活水平。知名社会学家马塞洛·里登蒂(Marcelo Ridenti)指出，从2000年到2011年，大学生的人数翻了一番。
“This generates huge changes in society, including changes in expectations among young people,” he said. “They expect to get not only jobs, but good jobs.”
“这给社会带来了巨大的变化，包括年轻人的期望也发生了改变，”他说。“他们不仅希望有工作，还希望是好工作。”
By this week, it was clear how thoroughly officials had miscalculated. At one point on Tuesday night, protesters tried to break into the Municipal Theater, where operagoers were watching Stravinsky’s “Rake’s Progress.” The doors to the elegant theater remained shut and as the show went on, they spray-painted the outside of the recently renovated structure with the words “Set Fire to the Bourgeoisie.”
到本周，我们已可以清楚地看到，官员们的想法错得会有多彻底。周二晚上，示威者试图闯进市立剧院(Municipal Theater)，歌剧爱好者们正在那里观看斯特拉文斯基(Stravinsky)创作的《浪子的历程》(Rake’s Progress)。设计优雅的剧院里演出还在进行，大门紧闭着，示威者们在这座最近整修过的建筑的外墙上喷上了“烧死资产阶级”的字样。