SÃO PAULO — It was Dia dos Namorados here on Thursday, the Brazilian equivalent of Valentine’s Day. That meant there were chocolates and flowers and couples holding hands tucked in among a sea of yellow jerseys that stretched from the Itaquera neighborhood over to Jardins. From sunrise all the way until the shimmering moon peeked above the skyline, Brazilians showed their passion for each other, and for soccer, on the opening day of the World Cup.
圣保罗——周四是巴西的情人节。这意味着，从伊塔克拉社区到哈尔丁，在延绵不绝的黄色球衣的海洋里，少不了巧克力、鲜花和手牵手的情侣。在世界杯首日，从日出时分，到天际线上显露出朦胧月色，巴西人都在展示着对彼此和对足球的激情。
But love — in any form — is a complicated matter. While there were moments of heat and adoration, particularly when Neymar scored the first of his two goals with an inch-perfect shot that bounced in off the post, Brazil’s 3-1 victory over Croatia was hardly the perfect date. Inside and outside the Arena Corinthians, emotions were mixed even before a contentious referee’s decision in favor of the home team plunged the tournament deep into its first controversy.
不过，爱——无论以何种形式——都是个复杂的东西。虽然不乏激情迸发、真情流露的时刻，尤其是内马尔一脚劲射、足球击中立柱后飞入球门的时候（这是内马尔这场比赛两个进球的第一个），巴西3比1战胜克罗地亚的这场比赛并不是一个完美的约会。在圣保罗体育场内外，即使是在裁判做出支持巴西队的争议决定、进而让世界杯陷入第一场争议之前，人们的情绪都五味杂陈。
That controversy figures to linger, too. Niko Kovac, Croatia’s coach, fumed after the game and all but accused the referee, Yuichi Nishimura of Japan, of favoring the hosts when he awarded a penalty kick to Brazil that led to the decisive goal.
这场争议也没有立即结束。克罗地亚队教练尼科·科瓦奇(Niko Kovac)比赛后仍怒不可遏，他几乎是在指责日本裁判西村雄一(Yuichi Nishimura)偏向巴西队，因而吹罚了点球。这次点球帮助巴西队实现了决定性的进球。
Kovac was livid because replays indicated that Fred, the Brazilian forward, fell theatrically to the ground after very little contact from a Croatian defender. With all the attention that has been paid to how Brazil’s performance in the tournament will reverberate throughout the country, Kovac indicated that he felt referees may be influenced.
科瓦奇之所以气愤，是因为回放画面显示，巴西队前锋弗雷德(Fred)和克罗地亚队的一名后卫的接触很轻微，随后却戏剧性地倒在地上。科瓦奇表示，由于所有注意力都集中在巴西队的世界杯表现将在国内产生何种反响上，他觉得裁判可能受了影响。
“It has to do with playing here in Brazil,” Kovac said. “I think Brazil does not need any help from referees.”
“这与我们在巴西比赛有关，”科瓦奇说，“我认为巴西不需要裁判的任何帮助。”
He added that the decision was “ridiculous” and that, “if we continue in this vein, there will be 100 penalties in this World Cup.”
他接着说，这个决定很“可笑”，“如果我们在这条路上继续下去，这届世界杯会有100次点球。”
It was, in many ways, a fitting end to a strange day that began with the police using tear gas and rubber bullets on protesters near a downtown subway station, casting a pall that will almost certainly return as demonstrations over the Cup continue over the next month.
从许多方面来看，这个结局与这个奇怪的日子都十分相称。早上，警方用催泪瓦斯和橡皮子弹驱赶了市中心一地铁站附近的抗议者。未来一个月，随着世界杯引发的抗议活动的持续进行，这种气氛毫无疑问会卷土重来。
At the stadium, which cost $400 million and is one of several new buildings for the Cup, workers hurried to finish construction as recently as Wednesday, and there were several hiccups during the opener, including a few areas where chairs appeared to be missing (fans sat on the concrete) as well as a moment in the first half when a bank of floodlights temporarily went out. Even the pregame release of three doves, designed to be a gesture of peace, did not come off perfectly; one of the birds looked to immediately crash into the stands.
在这个造价4亿美元的体育场——这是专门为世界杯修建的几座新建筑之一，工人们匆匆忙忙地直到周三才完工。揭幕战期间出现了几个意外情况，比如，有几片区域的椅子不知道哪去了（球迷只能坐在水泥地上），上半场，一排泛光灯曾熄灭了一段时间。就连赛前放飞三只象征和平的鸽子的过程也不十分顺利；有一只鸽子放飞后很快撞上了看台。
All of that, though, may inspire less immediate angst than the home team’s inconsistent performance. Soccer is sacred here, and it is not so much pressure that fans put on the Brazilian players as it is an ultimatum: win or be ridiculed.
不过，这一切即刻引发的担忧可能都无法与巴西队不稳定的表现相提并论。在这里，足球是神圣的，球迷强加给巴西球员的与其说是压力，不如说是最后通牒：踢不赢就等着成为笑柄吧。
Luiz Felipe Scolari, the Brazilian coach, has not shied from the expectations of a title, but he has also said that he will not be bothered by the typical Brazilian requirement of winning with style. Grinding performances are anathema for Brazilian fans, but Scolari, knowing the stakes, has said he is only interested in results.
巴西队教练路易斯·菲利佩·斯科拉里(Luiz Felipe Scolari)并未在围绕着世界杯冠军奖杯的期待面前退却，但他也表示，不会因为巴西人要求球队酣畅淋漓地取胜而感到困扰。虽然曲折的过程对巴西球迷是一种折磨，但经过权衡的斯科拉里表示，他只在乎结果。
From that perspective, he was pleased with Thursday’s outcome. Brazil actually fell behind early when Marcelo turned the ball into his own net in the 11th minute after Ivica Olic sprinted down the left side and crossed a dangerous ball in front of the goal.
这样看来，他对周四的结果很满意。巴西实际上一开始曾经落后，因为在11分钟时，在伊维卡·奥利奇(Ivica Olic)左路带球，把球传中至门前的千钧一发之际，马塞洛把球踢进了自家球门。
Marcelo, who was retreating, basically ran the ball into his own net. Most in the crowd of 62,103 stood in stunned silence, then began booing and whistling angrily after witnessing Brazil’s first own goal in World Cup history.
当时正在后退的马塞洛基本上是把球带进了本队球门。在见证了巴西在世界杯上的第一个乌龙球之后，在场的62103名观众大部分都站在那里，在震惊中陷入一片寂静，随后开始愤怒地发出嘘声与口哨声。
“World Cups are different,” Scolari said. “Obviously, when it is a home game and the first goal is scored against us, I think the impact is much more difficult.”
“世界杯是不一样的，”斯科拉里说。“显然，在主场作战时，对方进了第一个球，我认为后面的比赛变得艰难许多。”
Nightmare visions of an embarrassing loss followed the own goal, but Neymar, the silky attacker who is the darling of the Brazilian fans, rescued the mood with a brilliant goal 18 minutes later. The 22-year-old Neymar, who is playing in his first World Cup, dribbled to the top of the penalty area and rolled a shot in off the post that sent the Brazilian bench into hysterics as fireworks exploded outside the stadium.
在这个乌龙球之后，尴尬输掉比赛的噩梦笼罩着巴西队，但深受巴西球迷喜爱的内马尔，凭借着自己的流畅进攻，18分钟后用一个漂亮的进球将这种情绪一扫而光。这是22岁的内马尔第一次参加世界杯。他带球到禁区前方，一脚将球射入，巴西的替补席顿时沸腾起来，与此同时，体育场外燃起了焰火。
“I am really very happy,” Neymar said. “I think even happier than I dreamed I could be.”
“我真的非常开心，”内马尔说，“比我梦想的还要开心。”
Despite the overwhelming reaction from the Brazilian fans, Croatia, who was without its top scorer since Mario Mandzukic was suspended after getting a red card late in qualifying, did not buckle. Instead, the Blazers steadied their midfield early in the second half and looked to be comfortable playing for a tie as they bottled up the Brazilians’ attempts to penetrate.
尽管巴西球迷山做出了呼海啸般的反应，克罗地亚并没有屈服。由于马里奥·曼祖基奇(Mario Mandzukic)因在预选赛中红牌停赛，克罗地亚队失去了它的得分王。在下半场开始时，穿着鲜艳球衣的克罗地亚队员稳住了中场，彻底封住了巴西队的渗透，一度似乎有能力与巴西队战成平局。