When Mario Götze settled a crossing pass with his chest and volleyed a goal that won the World Cup, German fans roared in ecstatic release. Those from Brazil were nearly as delirious, even if it was out of relief as much as celebration.
马里奥·格策(Mario Götze)胸部停住一记斜传球，旋即凌空抽射入网，帮助德国队赢得了世界杯。此时，德国球迷欣喜若狂地高呼庆祝。巴西人也几乎同样激动，尽管其中的原因一半是庆幸，一半是欢庆。
It might have seemed an odd sight, Brazilian fans celebrating another team inside their own cathedral of soccer, the Maracanã stadium. But after two demoralizing losses brought national embarrassment, solace finally came Sunday as Germany defeated Argentina, 1-0, to become the first European team to win a World Cup played in North or South America.
此情此景似乎颇为古怪：巴西球迷在自家的足球圣地马拉卡纳球场为别国球队欢呼。不过，两场举国难堪的丧气失利之后，周日的比赛终于带来了一丝慰籍。德国队以1比0力克阿根廷队，成为在南北美洲举办的世界杯赛中登顶的首支欧洲球队。
“Argentina winning would have been the worst thing I could think of,” said Jaime Costa, 30, a Brazil fan who works in publicity for a music company.
“阿根廷赢了的话，会是我能想到的最大的梦魇，”30岁的巴西球迷雅伊梅·科斯塔(Jaime Costa)说。他在音乐公司从事公关工作。
By the tens of thousands, Argentine fans had crossed into neighboring Brazil, many sleeping in tents and mobile homes and taunting their chief rivals by singing, “Brazil, tell me how it feels to have your daddy in the house.” Roughly, that translates as “How does it feel to be bossed around in your own backyard?” Brazil lost, 7-1, to Germany last Wednesday in the semifinal round — its worst defeat ever — and then appeared feeble again in a 3-0 loss to the Netherlands in Saturday’s third-place game. Meanwhile, Argentina had reached the final for the first time in 24 years, led by its star Lionel Messi, widely considered the best player in the world.
赛前，数以万计的阿根廷球迷穿越与巴西之间的边境线，许多人睡在帐篷和活动房屋里，唱着嘲笑最大对手的曲子，“巴西，给我们说说老爹在家的滋味如何啊？”言下之意是，“看别人在自家后院撒野的滋味如何？”上周三，巴西队在半决赛中以1比7不敌德国队，成了自身历史上最惨烈的失败。然后，在周六的季军战中，巴西队再次显得死气沉沉，以0比3输给了荷兰队。与此同时，阿根廷队却在当家球星利昂内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)的带领下24年来首次晋级决赛。梅西被广泛认为是世界上最优秀的足球运动员。
“We hate them, and we don’t even know why,” said Flávia Torezani, 31, a computer programmer from Brazil who cheered herself hoarse at Sunday’s outcome as Argentine fans and players faced the heartbreak of narrow defeat. “They’re our rivals. We don’t want them to win, ever. This was almost like Brazil winning today.”
“我们恨他们，说不出理由来的恨，”31岁的巴西计算机程序员弗拉维娅·托雷扎尼(Flávia Torezani)说。周日的赛果让阿根廷球迷和球员品尝了只差一步的心碎，她却连嗓子都喊哑了。“他们是我们的对手。我们不想他们赢，永远都不要。今天就像是巴西胜利了。”
Sunday’s final concluded a monthlong tournament that presented a jarring contrast between Brazil’s hosting of the tournament and its achievement on the field. The World Cup was well organized despite fears that it would be chaotic. The Brazilian people were hospitable. The soccer was largely attractive and attacking. Some have called this the best World Cup in recent memory.
周日的决赛给为期一个月的世界杯赛事划上了句号。巴西作为主办方的表现与其球队在场上的表现形成了鲜明的对照。世界杯赛事组织有序，没有出现外界担心的混乱局面。巴西民众热情好客。球赛大多场面好看，奉行攻势足球。有人称，这是人们记忆中近年来最精彩的一届世界杯。
Soccer became so absorbing that widespread protests — against perceived wasteful spending on the World Cup and the 2016 Rio Olympics — did not occur after undermining a warm-up tournament last year.
比赛扣人心弦，以致去年破坏了热身赛事的那种大范围抗议活动全都销声匿迹了。抗议者认为，巴西在本届世界杯和2016年里约奥运会的筹备上铺张浪费。
Yet Brazil’s hope of winning a sixth World Cup ended in humiliation with that semifinal loss to Germany. The country was stunned. It was as if some essential truth had been altered. Brazil not only could be beaten at home, it could be routed and demoralized.
然而，巴西在半决赛中遭德国羞辱，第六次赢取世界杯的希望就此破灭。举国震惊，仿佛真理被打破。巴西不仅可以主场失利，而且能被打得落花流水、溃不成军。
“It has left a terrible blemish, a deep scar,” said Aldo Rebelo, Brazil’s sports minister. “It was a disaster.”
“这留下了一个丑陋的污点，一道深深的伤疤，”巴西体育部长阿尔多·雷贝洛(Aldo Rebelo)说。“是场灾难。”
After the loss to Germany, Brazilians reacted with mordant humor: Another goal was found in the shaggy hair of the Brazilian defender David Luiz. Not even Volkswagen could produce Gols — a popular model it builds here — as quickly as the German national team could produce goals. Messi would not play Sunday because he got stomach problems from laughing so hard at Brazil’s defeat.
输给德国队后，巴西人冷嘲热讽：大卫·路易斯(David Luiz)浓密的秀发中又发现了一粒进球。大众(Volkswagen)造高尔汽车(Gols)的速度都赶不上德国国家队进球快。高尔是该公司在巴西市场上的热销车型（高尔与进球在葡萄牙语里谐音——译注）。梅西周日没法上场，因为笑巴西惨败笑得胃痛。
Before Saturday’s third-place match in Brasília, the capital, fans welcomed the national team with heartfelt cheers. But things fell apart rapidly, and the response was morose. Romário, the star of Brazil’s 1994 World Cup championship team and now a politician, suggested that most current players never be allowed to wear the national team jersey again.
周六在首都巴西利亚举办的三四名争夺战前，球迷们热情洋溢地迎接了巴西国家队。然而，形势直转而下，人们的反应也怨气深重。巴西夺得1994年世界杯冠军的功臣罗马里奥认为，这支队伍里的多数球员应永远不再披上国家队的战袍。罗马里奥如今已涉足政坛。
Thiago Silva, Brazil’s captain, issued an apology to the nation, saying: “It is a moment of great sadness. It is difficult to go home and say to your family, ‘Sorry, I didn’t manage.’ ”
队长蒂亚戈·席尔瓦(Thiago Silva)发表了面向全国民众的道歉信，“这是一个悲痛的时刻。实在难以回家面对亲人说，‘对不起，我没有做到。’”
Brazil’s performance as host, however, brought words of encouragement from Olympic officials about the staging of the Rio Games in two years, even if preparations will very likely be completed at the last minute, as they were for the World Cup.
不过，巴西作为主办国的表现，让奥委会官员对两年后里约奥运会的前景语出乐观，虽说筹备工作很可能要拖到最后一刻才完成，与本届世界杯一样。
“I think that the world has seen the organizational skills of Brazil in this World Cup,” Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee, told reporters. “Many were surprised, but you could see how well this went.”
“我想全世界都从本次世界杯见证了巴西的组织能力。”国际奥委会主席托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)对记者表示。“许多人都感到惊讶。不过，你能看得出，此次世界杯办得有多棒。”
Pedro Trengrouse, a professor of sports management, marketing and law at the Getúlio Vargas Foundation, a Brazilian institute of higher education, said the soccer defeats would not affect Brazil’s self-confidence. After all, it has won five World Cups, more than any nation. And its fourth-place finish here was its highest since it won the World Cup in 2002.
巴西高校盖图罗·瓦格斯基金会(Getúlio Vargas Foundation)的体育管理、市场营销与法学教授佩德罗·特伦格罗斯 (Pedro Trengrouse)说，足球场上的失利不会影响巴西的自信心。不管怎么说，巴西都曾赢得过五次世界杯，比其他任何国家都多。本次世界杯赛巴西名列第四，是自2002年巴西赢得世界杯后名次最靠前的一次。
“This will not diminish us as a nation,” Trengrouse said Sunday in an interview.
周日，特伦格罗斯在一次采访中说，“这是不会削弱我们这个国家的。”
More important than the disappointment, Trengrouse said, is that Brazil’s staging of the tournament is considered a triumph.
特伦格罗斯说，有一点比巴西队令人失望的比赛更重要，那就是大家都认为，巴西成功第举办了此次赛事 。
“It was a huge success for Brazil and its image overseas, and Brazilians are very proud of this,” Trengrouse said. “That outweighs the impact of the losses.”
特伦格罗斯说，“这对巴西及其在海外的形象而言是一次巨大的成功，巴西人为此感到无比的自豪。这种自豪盖过了比赛失利造成的影响。”
In another sense, Brazil’s failure signaled a democratizing of soccer at this World Cup. Costa Rica, for instance, reached the quarterfinals for the first time and came within a game — a loss to the Netherlands in a penalty shootout — of the semifinals.
在另一个方面，巴西队的失败标志着本次世界杯的民主化。例如，哥斯达黎加队首次进入四分之一决赛，要不是在点球大战中输给了荷兰队，该队差点就能进入半决赛。