RIO DE JANEIRO — One politician took to Twitter to circulate a map of Brazil with a barrier separating the relatively prosperous south from President Dilma Rousseff’s support in the poorer north — along the lines of the Berlin Wall.
里约热内卢——一名政界人士在Twitter上贴出了一张巴西地图，图中用一道屏障把较富裕的巴西南部和较贫穷的、支持总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)的北部分隔开，仿佛柏林墙那样。
During the bitter presidential race that led to her re-election on Sunday, Ms. Rousseff’s predecessor mocked the main challenger by calling him the “candidate of the bankers.”
经过激烈的总统选举，罗塞夫于上周日获得连任。在选举过程中，罗塞夫的前任嘲笑她的主要对手是“银行家的候选人”。
Even as Ms. Rousseff’s supporters celebrated her victory, the divisions gripping Brazil came into sharp relief Monday. Large banks and hedge funds expressed their distrust of the president with a sell-off, pushing down Brazil’s main stock index by 3.7 percent and clipping the currency by 2.7 percent.
即使是在罗塞夫的支持者们对她的再次当选进行庆祝之际，本周一，巴西人的分歧得到了鲜明体现。大型银行和对冲基金用抛售的方式表达了对总统的不信任，巴西主要股指跌幅达3.7%，货币汇率跌幅2.7%。
“We’re emerging from an election that has revealed a rift between economic classes,” said Murillo de Aragão, the president of Arko Advice, a political consulting firm in Brasília. “The level of tension is remarkably high, accentuating a loss of confidence in the president among big economic interests.”
“我们刚刚结束的大选，揭示了经济阶层之间的裂痕，”巴西利亚政治咨询公司Arko Advice的总裁的穆里略·阿拉冈(Murillo de Aragão)说。“情况极为紧张，表明各大经济利益体对总统丧失了信心。”
In the final vote tally, Ms. Rousseff took 51.64 percent, against 48.36 percent for her rival, Aécio Neves, a scion of a political family from the state of Minas Gerais. It was the smallest margin of victory in any presidential election since democracy was re-established in the 1980s after two decades of military rule.
最终投票结果显示，罗塞夫获得了51.64%的选票，而她的对手，米纳斯吉拉斯州政治家庭出身的阿埃西奥·内维斯(Aécio Neves)，获得了48.36%的选票。自从巴西结束二十年的军事统治，在20世纪80年代重建民主体制以来，这是​​历届总统选举中双方得票最接近的一次。
Ms. Rousseff, 66, a former Marxist guerrilla who rose to prominence as a top aide to Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, the president from 2003 to 2010, seemed to signal in her victory speech that changes were needed to calm a nation unnerved by the campaigning, which involved comparisons on both sides to Nazis and heated accusations of corruption. “In mature democracies, unity does not mean monolithic action,” Ms. Rousseff told supporters in Brasília on Sunday night. “I want to be a better president than I’ve been until now.”
罗塞夫现年66岁，曾是马克思主义游击队员，后来成为了路易斯·伊纳西奥·卢拉·达席尔瓦(Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva)的一位高级助手，从此平步青云；达席尔瓦曾在2003至2010年间担任巴西总统。在发表胜利演说时，罗塞夫似乎发送了这样的信号：竞选活动让巴西气氛紧张，需要做出改变来平息这种不安。在竞选活动中，双方都把对方和纳粹相提并论，对腐败现象也有激烈指控。“在成熟的民主国家，团结不等于行动划一，”周日晚上，罗塞夫在巴西利亚告诉支持者。“与过去一任相比，我想成为一个更好的总统。”
While some in Brazil’s middle and upper classes might wish otherwise, few changes are expected in the popular antipoverty programs that have shielded poorer Brazilians from an economic slowdown, with the unemployment rate remaining low even as the economy went into recession this year.
虽然巴西的一些中上层人士可能有其他想法，受人欢迎的扶贫项目预计基本上不会改变；它们旨在保护较为贫困的巴西人，避免经济增长放缓给他们带来损失；即使今年巴西经济陷入衰退，该国的失业率仍然较低。
But Ms. Rousseff has signaled other changes, including the appointment of a new finance minister. That could open the way for a shift away from policies that have created ire in Brazil’s business establishment, like price controls on fuel in a bid to keep inflation from accelerating.
不过，罗塞夫发出了在其他方面做出改变的信号，比如对一位新财政部长的任命。这可能会为一些政策的改变开辟道路，这些政策已经激起了巴西商界权贵的愤怒，比如限制燃油价格，以防止通货膨胀加速。
In addition to the class tension, the election also exposed geographic fissures, reflected by the strong showing of the centrist challenger Mr. Neves in São Paulo and states in southern Brazil, compared with Ms. Rousseff’s sweep of states in the north and northeast, where recipients of social welfare programs broadly backed the incumbent.
除了阶级之间的紧张关系之外，这次大选也暴露出了地理上的南北差异；在圣保罗和巴西南部，走中间路线的挑战者内维斯表现强劲，而在北部和东北部各州，罗塞夫获得了压倒性的多数票，因为在这些地方，社会福利计划的受助人普遍支持罗塞夫政府。
“Power was always in São Paulo in the south, but when the” governing party “started sending resources north to help us, many in the south simply didn’t accept it,” said Saron Zacarias, 51, a refrigeration technician from Fortaleza, in the northeast. “Now this division is clear again, like there are two parts to Brazil.”
“从前，权力总是被圣保罗和南部掌握着。当执政党开始把资源送到北部来帮助我们时，南部很多人觉得无法接受，”51岁的萨隆扎·卡里亚斯(Saron Zacarias)说，他是东北部城市福塔莱萨的一个制冷技术员。“现在这种割裂又再度明显起来，就好像巴西分为两个部分。”
Attempts to link Mr. Neves with the moneyed elite — Mr. da Silva also called him a “daddy’s boy” — may have resonated with some voters.
把内韦斯与有钱的精英人士划归一类的做法——卢拉说他是“大佬的男孩”——也许在一些选民中引起了共鸣。
But Ms. Rousseff “will now have to look beyond the class struggle rhetoric of her campaign and show whether she can regain the trust of the south and southeast,” Tony Volpon, an analyst at Nomura Securities, said in a research note.
但罗塞夫“现在必须超越她在竞选活动中使用的阶级斗争的言论，并且表现出她有能力重新获得南部和东南部公众的信任，”野村证券(Nomura Securities)分析师托尼·沃尔朋(Tony Volpon)在一份研究报告中写道。
While some in Brazil’s financial markets are fuming over the sluggish economy, others expressed optimism about Ms. Rousseff’s new term on Monday. Executives at two of Brazil’s largest banks, Itaú and Bradesco, issued statements lauding her for saying she was open to dialogue.
在巴西金融市场上，虽然一些人对经济不景气的状况非常不满，但对于罗塞夫本周一的一些新说法，也有些人表示乐观。她说自己愿意对话，对此，巴西两家大银行伊塔乌(Itaú) 和布拉德斯科银行(Bradesco)的高管发表声明，称赞了她。