BRASÍLIA — Brazilian legislators voted on Sunday night to approve impeachment of Dilma Rousseff, the nation’s first female president, whose tenure has been buffeted by a dizzying corruption scandal, a shrinking economy and spreading disillusionment.
巴西利亚——周日晚上，巴西国会议员投票通过了对总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)的弹劾。罗塞夫是巴西首位女性总统，在她任内，巴西曝出惊人的贪腐丑闻，经济下滑，幻灭丛生。
After three days of impassioned debate, the lower house of Congress, the Chamber of Deputies, voted to send the case against Ms. Rousseff to the Senate. Its 81 members will vote by a simple majority on whether to hold a trial on charges that the president illegally used money from state-owned banks to conceal a yawning budget deficit in an effort to bolster her re-election prospects. That vote is expected to take place next month.
在历时三天、群情激昂的辩论后，国会下院，即众议院投票将针对罗塞夫的议案提交至参议院。81名参议院议员将通过简单多数投票决定是否对罗塞夫进行审判，她被指控非法使用国有银行资金掩饰财政预算的漏洞，以谋求连任。参议院投票预计将在下个月进行。
Those pressing for impeachment had to win the support of two-thirds of the 513 deputies in the lower house; the decisive 342nd vote for impeachment happened at about 10:10 p.m. Eastern time. The final vote was 367 for impeachment, 137 against and 7 abstaining. Two deputies did not vote.
弹劾的迫切要求获得了下院513名议员中三分之二的支持，决定性的第342张赞成票在东部时间晚上10点10分被投出。最终的投票结果为367票赞成，137票反对，7票弃权。有两名议员未投票。
If the Senate accepts the case, Ms. Rousseff will step down temporarily while it deliberates her fate. Vice President Michel Temer, a constitutional law scholar and seasoned politician, will assume the presidency.
如果参议院受理该案，在对罗塞夫的命运进行商议期间，她将暂时下台。副总统米歇尔·特梅尔(Michel Temer)将担任总统职位，他是一位宪法法律学者和经验丰富的政治家。
Given the larger-than-expected margin of deputies voting for impeachment, some political analysts said the Senate was likely to remove Ms. Rousseff from office, a ruling that would require a two-thirds majority.
鉴于投票弹劾的代表人数超出了预期，有政治分析人士指出参议院很有可能将罗塞夫免职，这一决议需要获得三分之二赞成票才能通过。
“Politicians know how to read society pretty well, and they can sense that the people want her out,” said Paulo Sotero, the director of the Brazil Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.
“政客们非常懂得如何了解民情，他们可以感觉到人们想让她下台”，位于华盛顿的伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心巴西研究所主任保罗·索特罗(Paulo Sotero)说。