RIO DE JANEIRO — Eduardo de Jesus was on his doorstep in Complexo do Alemão, a vast maze here of cinder block homes, when his mother heard the loud blast of gunfire.
里约热内卢──在阿莱茂住宅区，一片满布着水泥空心砖住宅的巨大迷宫里，埃杜瓦尔多·德耶苏斯(Eduardo de Jesus)的母亲听到一声震耳的枪响。当时，埃杜瓦尔多正在自家的门阶上。
Seconds later, she saw Eduardo, 10, lying dead from a gunshot wound to the head, and she ran toward the police officer holding the gun.
几秒过后，她看见十岁的儿子躺在地上，头部中枪身亡，于是跑向手持枪械的警察。
“I grabbed him by the vest and yelled, ‘You killed my boy, you wretch,’ ” said his mother, Terezinha Maria de Jesus, 40.
“我抓着他的背心大喊；‘你杀了我儿子，你这畜生！’”40岁的母亲泰蕾齐妮亚·玛莉亚·德耶苏斯(Terezinha Maria de Jesus)说。
“He told me, ‘Just as I killed your son, I can kill you, too,’ as he pointed his rifle at my head,” she continued. “I told him: ‘Go ahead. You just killed part of me. Take the rest.’ ”
“他举起步枪指着我的头，对我说：‘我杀了你儿子，也可以杀了你。’”她说道。“我对他说：‘动手吧。你杀了我生命中的一部分。把剩下的也拿去。’”
The images of Eduardo’s lifeless body and the piercing screams of his neighbors denouncing the police, captured on cellphones and shared on social media around Brazil since the episode last month, offer a rare glimpse into the sense of despair in a society where killings by the police are so common that they dwarf the number in the United States.
埃杜瓦尔多的尸体与邻居指责警察的尖叫声，都被手机拍摄下，并自事件发生以来一个月，通过社交媒体传遍巴西。这起事件让人难得一窥当地社会的绝望：警察杀人的事件常见到让美国相形见绌。
At least 2,212 people were killed by the police in Brazil in 2013, according to the Brazilian Public Security Forum, an independent research group, and experts say the actual number is probably substantially higher because some states do not report killings by their police forces.
根据独立研究团体“巴西公共安全论坛”(Brazilian Public Security Forum)的统计，巴西在2013年至少有2212人被警察所杀。专家表示，由于有些州不公布警察杀人的资料，实际数字可能高出很多。
In the United States, which has well over 100 million more people than Brazil, the F.B.I. counted far fewer killings by the police: 461 in 2013, the latest year for which data is available. Other estimates put the yearly toll in the United States as high as 1,100, yet that is not quite even half as many police killings as in Brazil.
美国比巴西多上一亿人口，但联邦调查局(FBI)统计的警察杀人案件远远少于巴西：根据可取得的最新数据，在2013年仅有461人。有的数据来源估计美国每年的死亡数字约有1100人，但仍不到巴西的一半。
But while deaths at the hands of the police have set off fevered protests around the United States, igniting cities like Baltimore and Ferguson, Mo., they are often accepted grimly in Brazil as a normal fixture of policing in a country fed up with violent crime.
警察杀人事件在美国的巴尔的摩、密苏里州弗格森等城市点燃了抗议的怒火，但在巴西，人们往往漠然地接受它们的存在，认为这是在充满暴力犯罪的国家中维护治安的常态。
“Of course, the sense of outrage would be different if these victims were boys with blond hair and blue eyes who lived in rich areas, but they were not,” said Antônio Carlos Costa, a Presbyterian pastor who helps track cases of children under 14 who were killed by the police. “The children, adolescents and adults killed by the police in Brazil are victims of a massacre in which the casualty figures are higher than in some war zones.”
“当然，若是住在富人区的金发碧眼男孩受害，愤慨之情就会不一样，”长老教会牧师安东尼奥·卡尔洛斯·科斯塔(Antônio Carlos Costa)说。他在协助跟进警察杀害14岁以下儿童的案件。“巴西的警察杀儿童、青少年与成人，他们是一场大屠杀的受害者，在这场屠杀里丧命的人甚至要比某些战区还多。”
With killings by the police surging in Rio as the authorities clamp down in preparation for the Olympic Games next year, anger flares occasionally.
随着里约当局为准备明年的奥运而大举镇压，警察杀人的数字也暴增，有时会引发众怒。
After Eduardo’s death, the police broke up demonstrations by firing smoke bombs and rubber bullets in Complexo do Alemão, a patchwork of favelas, or relatively poor urban areas that largely emerged as squatter settlements. Protesters in another area of Rio favelas, Complexo de São Carlos, lit buses on fire this month after accusing a police unit of carrying out the killings of two men.
在埃杜瓦尔多死后，警方用烟雾弹与橡胶子弹镇压阿莱茂住宅区的示威。这是个杂乱无章的贫民窟，或者说市内相对贫穷的区域，其中大多是非法住宅。在里约另一处名为圣卡尔洛斯的贫民窟，人们指责一队警察杀死了两名男子，一些公共汽车被烧毁。
But in much of Brazil, proponents of harsh policing tactics are growing stronger.
但在巴西多数地方，支持严厉执法手段的声音越来越多。
Responding to widespread fears in a crime-weary country with more homicides than any other — 50,108 in 2012, according to the United Nations — conservative politicians with law enforcement backgrounds and tough talk on crime collected huge vote counts in recent state and federal elections, bolstering what is often called Brazil’s “bullet caucus” in Congress.
在这个犯罪猖獗、杀人案发率高居全球首位的国家（根据联合国的数据，2012年有50108人被杀），为了应对广布的恐惧，有执法背景、对犯罪强硬的保守派政治家，在最近的州级及联邦大选中获得大量选票，撑起巴西国会中通常被称作“子弹派”的派系。
Some bullet caucus members openly celebrate the number of people they killed while patrolling the streets. One rising political star, Paulo Telhada, boasted of killing more than 30 people as a police officer in São Paulo, saying in a recent interview he felt “no pity for thugs.”
有些子弹派成员公开赞扬警方巡逻时的杀人之多。其中一位名为保罗·特利亚达(Paulo Telhada)的政治明星，在圣保罗担任警察期间便杀死过30多人，他在最近的一次访谈中表示，他觉得“不需同情暴徒”。
“There are parts of the middle class that accept killings by the police as a legitimate practice,” said Ivan C. Marques, director of Instituto Sou da Paz, a group that tracks police issues.
“部分中产阶级将警察杀人视为正当执法，”从事警察问题跟踪调查的组织“我为和平协会”(Instituto Sou da Paz)会长伊万·C‧马尔克斯(Ivan C. Marques)说。
In the state of Rio alone, the police killed at least 563 people in 2014, a 35 percent increase from the year before, according to the state’s Institute of Public Security.
据里约州公共安全中心(Institute of Public Security)称，在2014年，光是这个州就有563人被警察杀死，较一年前的数字上升35%。
That is significantly more than the F.B.I. recorded for the entire United States, which has a population about 20 times as large as that of Rio State.
这个数字比美国联邦调查局的全国记录还要多上许多，而美国人口是里约州的20倍。
“Sometimes it takes the killing of a 10-year-old boy to jolt people into grasping the fact that this tragedy is unfolding on an epic scale,” said Ignacio Cano, a researcher on police issues. “Sadly, only when the victim is scandalously innocent does it touch a nerve.”
“有时必须等到像这样的十岁孩童受害了，人们才惊诧地发现这是多么惨绝人寰的悲剧，”研究警方执法问题的专家伊格纳西奥·卡诺(Ignacio Cano)表示。“可悲的是，唯有极端无辜的受害者，才能让人们有所触动。”
Many unsolved cases in which children are killed are simply called “stray bullet” episodes. Some cases have happened during antidrug operations in crowded areas, raising questions about the regular strategy of staging big, aggressive police incursions in residential districts.
许多受害对象为孩童的未破命案，都以“流弹误伤”草草了事。其中有些案件起因于警方在人口稠密处的缉毒行动，让民众不禁质疑，警方在住宅区发动大规模突袭的策略是否得当。
Researchers say the reasons for the large numbers of police killings are varied. To begin with, poorly trained and poorly paid police forces in crime-plagued slums are often imbued with a shoot-first instinct stemming from a mixture of fear, paranoia and a sense of impunity.
研究人员表示，遭警方射杀身亡的案件之所以如此频繁出现，其原因不一而足。最显而易见的推论是，贫民窟的那些缺乏训练、薪水微薄的警察，面对治安恶劣的环境，本能上往往选择先开枪，而这种本能来自恐惧、多疑，并认为警察开枪理所当然。
Some elite units, like the Police Special Operations Battalion in Rio, openly advertise, and even glorify, their lethality. The unit’s symbol is a skull and crossed pistols.
一些精英警察单位，例如里约的特种警察部队(Police Special Operations Battalion)，就公开宣扬他们的杀伤能力，甚至因此沾沾自喜。它的徽标是一颗骷颅头和两把交叉的手枪。
But analysts say such squads are merely the sharp end of larger policing systems in which criminals, or people perceived to be criminals, are considered undesirable elements who cannot be reformed.
但分析专家表示，整个治安系统普遍认为，罪犯和被认为是罪犯的人是无法改造，必遭社会唾弃，那些精英无非是系统中格外尖锐的一份子。
As drug gangs control many prisons in Brazil, arresting criminals and sending them to jail is viewed by some police officers as feeding the growth of crime, not reducing it.
在巴西，许多监狱都遭受贩毒帮派控制，因此某些警官认为，将罪犯送进监狱不但无助于减少犯罪，甚至还可能助长犯罪。
Many cases involving the police are registered as “resistance killings” or “deaths in police confrontation,” though rights groups say that the episodes often amount to summary executions.
许多牵涉警方的命案都记录为“拒捕伤亡”或“与警方冲突伤亡”，然而人权团体表示，这些案件往往是即刻处决。
“For police, it is just as easy, and understood to be more of a solution, to kill perceived criminals,” said Graham Denyer Willis, a lecturer at the University of Cambridge who studies Brazil’s police. With killings routinely accepted as an inevitable byproduct of reducing insecurity in some cities, the result is “unequivocally a form of social cleansing,” he said.
剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)讲师暨巴西警务系统专家葛兰姆·丹亚·威利斯(Graham Denyer Willis)认为，“对警方而言，直接射杀嫌疑犯是最好的解决办法，也简单得多。”为了改善某些城市的治安，民众受到波及也是无可避免的，其结果“显然是一种社会清洗”。
Sometimes, the authorities exalt the practice.
有时候，有关当局甚至对这种处理方式大表赞扬。
“I’ll give him a medal for each thug he sent to hell,” said André Puccinelli, the governor of the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, while commending an off-duty police officer who killed two armed men trying to rob a store.
南马托格罗索州州长安德烈·普契涅利(André Puccinelli)就一名休假警员枪杀两名武装抢劫分子的案件发表评论，说“他每送一个暴徒下地狱，我就颁给他一面奖牌”。
Here in Rio State, the authorities say the number of killings by the police dropped to 563 in 2014 from 1,330 in 2007, as they sent security forces into favelas in a so-called pacification campaign.
里约州当局表示，自从执行所谓的“绥靖计划”，向贫民窟派驻安保力量后，警方杀人的数量由2007年的1330人降为2014年的563人。
But security officials acknowledge the problem remains.
不过安保当局也承认，问题仍旧悬而未决。
“We need much more training to prepare the police for territories where we still have a lot of difficulty working,” said Col. Robson Rodrigues, a top official in Rio’s state police force. “Policing activities still need some correcting.”
“我们需要更多培训，让警察同仁有充分能力应付治安恶劣的地区，”里约州总警监罗布森·罗德里格斯(Col. Robson Rodrigues)表示。“警方的执法行动仍有必要进行修正。”
Rights groups question whether the authorities are trying to curb police killings. In one study, Michel Misse, a sociologist at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, examined 707 cases of killings by the police and found that prosecutors declined to press charges against officers in more than 99 percent of them.
人权团体质疑有关当局是否真的在遏止警方枪杀平民的行为，里约热内卢联邦大学(Federal University of Rio de Janeiro)社会学家米谢尔·米塞(Michel Misse)在研究中检验了707件警方致死案例，发现检察官在99%的案子中，都拒绝对警察提起诉讼。
In the case of Eduardo, the 10-year-old shot dead in April, a police spokeswoman said the killing was still being investigated.
以埃杜瓦尔多的案子来说，这位十岁男孩在4月被射杀，警方发言人表示，该案仍在侦查中。
Ms. de Jesus, Eduardo’s mother, says she asks herself if the police somehow thought her son could have been armed, though the killing took place in daylight and the small white cellphone in his hand hardly resembled a weapon.
埃杜瓦尔多的母亲德耶苏斯女士表示，她会问自己，警方是否不知怎么，认为儿子持有武器，虽然开枪时是白天，而他手中的白色手机也很难和武器混淆。
Ms. de Jesus said that she and her neighbors rushed to prevent the police from tampering with the scene, worried that they would plant a firearm near Eduardo’s body.
德耶苏斯女士表示，事发当时她和邻居急忙赶赴案发现场，以免警方把武器栽赃在埃杜瓦尔多身上。