The first Saturday in May is always a great day for Warren Buffett. That’s the day his conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway, holds its annual meeting in Omaha.
对沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)来说，每年5月的第一个周六总是一个开心的日子。这一天，他的企业集团伯克希尔-哈撒韦(Berkshire Hathaway)会在奥马哈举行一年一度的股东大会。
Thousands of shareholders descend on the city — there were more than 30,000 last year — where they eat ice cream at Dairy Queen (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s holdings), shop at Borsheims (the Omaha jewelry store Berkshire has long owned) and dine at Gorat’s and Piccolo’s (Buffett’s favorite restaurants). This year, according to his annual letter, the festivities will also include a newspaper-tossing contest, and a blindfolded chess player and an American table-tennis champion who will take on all comers.
成千上万的股东突然间出现在这座城市——去年有超过3万人——在那里，他们在冰雪皇后（Dairy Queen，由伯克希尔-哈撒韦控股的公司之一）吃冰激凌，在波仙珠宝店（Borsheims，伯克希尔在奥马哈长期拥有的珠宝店）买首饰，在戈瑞(Gorat's)和皮科洛(Piccolo's)餐馆用餐。根据他的致股东信，今年的特色还将包括一个扔报纸比赛，此外，一位下盲棋的国际象棋手和一位美国乒乓球冠军，还将接受所有与会者的挑战。
Mostly, though, investors come to hear Buffett and his longtime partner, Charlie Munger, answer questions, which they’ll do for six hours on Saturday. Some of the questions will be about Berkshire Hathaway. Others will give Buffett a chance to talk about the buy-and-hold stock strategy that has made him, at 83, the second-wealthiest American behind Bill Gates. Buffett has long called his annual meeting “Woodstock for capitalists.” But it’s really more like a revival meeting.
不过，投资者主要还是来聆听巴菲特和他的长期合作伙伴查理·芒格(Charlie Munger)回答问题的。周六，他们的答问时间将持续六个小时，有些问题会关于伯克希尔-哈撒韦。还有一些问题会让巴菲特有机会谈论“买入并持有”的股票投资策略，正是这一策略让现年83岁的巴菲特成为仅次于比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)的美国第二大富豪。长期以来，巴菲特一直把他的年度股东大会称作“资本家的伍德斯托克(Woodstock)音乐节”，但它实际上更像一个布道会。
I wonder, though, if anyone attending this year’s meeting is going to ask him about his decision to abstain from voting Berkshire Hathaway’s 400 million shares against Coca-Cola’s equity compensation plan, even though Buffett felt the plan was, in his own words, “excessive.”
不过，我想知道的是，今年的与会者是否有人会追问，他为什么弃权，而没有利用伯克希尔-哈撒韦在可口可乐公司(Coca-Cola)持有的4亿股，来投票反对可口可乐的股权薪酬计划，虽然用巴菲特自己的话来说，他认为这个计划“太过分了”。
I am returning to this subject because, on Monday, following widespread criticism of his decision, Buffett gave a remarkable interview to Fortune magazine’s Stephen Gandel, an interview that was strikingly different in tone from his remarks of last week. When he first acknowledged to Becky Quick of CNBC that he had declined to vote against the compensation plan, he seemed flustered and mildly embarrassed. His reason, he said, was that he loved Coke and its management and he didn’t want to do anything that might be viewed as disparaging them. Given Buffett’s previous statements about the importance of institutional investors speaking out against excessive executive compensation, I thought he had been both cowardly and hypocritical. So did a lot of other people.
我之所以重提这个话题，是因为周一，在巴菲特的决定引发了广泛批评后，他接受了《财富》(Fortune)杂志斯蒂芬·甘德尔(Stephen Gandel)的采访。在这次引人注目的采访中，他的语气与上周的一些言论截然不同。当他首次向CNBC的贝姬·奎克(Becky Quick)承认自己没有对薪酬计划投反对票时，他看起来紧张不安，有点尴尬。他说，他的理由是，他喜欢可口可乐公司及其管理团队，他不想做任何可能被认为是在贬低他们的事。巴菲特之前在谈论机构投资者的重要性时，曾强烈反对高管薪酬过高，考虑到这一点，我认为他既懦弱又虚伪。其他的很多人也是如此。
But having had a few days to lick his wounds, Buffett went on the offensive with Fortune. In abstaining, he told Gandel, he was taking a stand. “That’s a very loud voice coming from Berkshire,” he said. “It obviously means we don’t approve of the plan.” He added that the Coke board was simply acting the way all boards do: “The other guys are doing it so we will do the same thing. The idea of fundamentally re-examining the whole thing doesn’t occur to these companies.” Nor was Buffett willing to try to bring about such a re-examination, even though he was in the perfect position to do so in this case.
但利用几天时间抚平了伤口之后，巴菲特在接受《财富》采访时采取了攻势。他告诉甘德尔，他之所以弃权，的确是在表明立场。“这是伯克希尔发出的一个非常响亮的声音，”他说。“这显然意味着我们不同意这个计划。”他接着说，可口可乐董事会只不过是在像世界上所有董事会一样行事：“其他人这么做了，所以我们也要这么做。这些企业从来不会想到从根本上重新审视整件事。”然而，巴菲特也没有试图促成这样的一次重新审视，虽然在这件事上，他这么做再合适不过。
In fact, Buffett had it right when he spoke to Quick: He should be embarrassed. It’s actually worse than I had realized. My original assumption was that Buffett didn’t want to offend his fellow board members, especially those on the compensation committee, who had vouched for the equity plan. But Buffett left the board in 2006. (His son Howard joined the Coke board four years later.) As the company’s largest shareholder, he should have felt duty-bound to vote against the plan — or at least to let it be known beforehand how he was going to vote.
事实上，巴菲特在接受奎克采访时有句话说对了：他应该感到尴尬。事实上，比我意识到的还要严重。我最初以为，巴菲特不想冒犯其他董事，尤其是力挺股权计划的薪酬委员会成员。但巴菲特2006年就离开了董事会。（四年后，他的儿子霍华德[Howard]加入了可口可乐董事会。）作为该公司的最大股东，他应该感到，投票反对这个计划是义不容辞的，或者，至少应该事先让外界知道他会怎样投票。
Indeed, when I asked David Winters of Wintergreen Advisers, who had led the charge against the Coke equity plan, what he thought about Buffett’s latest statement, he told me that if Buffett had announced a month before the Coke annual meeting that he was going to abstain, it might well have been a factor. “If people had known that Buffett had agreed with us that the plan was excessive, the outcome of the vote might have been significantly different,” he said. As it was, 83 percent of the shares voted favored the plan, a number Coke has been trumpeting ever since the annual meeting.
针对可口可乐股权计划的谴责是冬青顾问公司(Wintergreen Advisers)的戴维·温特斯(David Winters)发起的。当我询问他对巴菲特的最新言论有什么看法时，他告诉我，如果巴菲特在可口可乐年会的一个月前就宣布他将弃权，可能就会成为影响投票结果的一个因素。他说，“如果人们知道巴菲特同意我们的看法，认为这个计划过分了，投票结果可能会有很大不同。”结果，83%的股票支持该计划，自从会议之后，可口可乐公司就一直在对外界大肆宣扬这个数字。
(Coke added in a statement: “The Coca-Cola Company Board respects Mr. Buffett’s philosophical stance on equity-based compensation. As our largest shareholder, Mr. Buffett is an avid supporter of the Company and its management team, and has been a wonderful counselor through the years.” In other words, no harm, no foul.)
（可口可乐在一份声明中补充说：“可口可乐公司的董事会尊重巴菲特对股权薪酬计划的原则立场。作为我们最大的股东，巴菲特先生是公司及管理团队的有力支持者，多年来一直是一名了不起的顾问。”换句话说，反正我们没受到什么损失，好极了。）
In his annual letter to shareholders this year, Buffett gives a lovely dissertation on buy-and-hold “value” investing. He explains to readers that they shouldn’t be distracted by the white noise of the market, and that while he and Munger may make stock-picking mistakes, they won’t be the kind of disasters “that occur, for example, when a long-rising market induces purchases that are based on anticipated price behavior and a desire to be where the action is.”
在今年的致股东信中，巴菲特对买入并持有的“价值”投资策略进行了精妙的阐述。他向股东们解释说，他们不应该被市场的白噪音所干扰，并表示，尽管他和芒格在选股时可能会犯错，这些错误也不会是灾难性的，比如，不会是“在长期上涨的行情中，基于对价格走势的预期，并受到从众欲望的驱使才做出的购买行为”造成的那种灾难。
When it comes to buying stocks, everybody should follow Warren Buffett’s example. But, on the subject of executive compensation, do what he says, not what he does.
在购买股票方面，所有人都应该把沃伦·巴菲特当做榜样。但是，在高管薪酬的问题上，要听从他的建议，但不要效仿他的做法。