Did the Paris climate accord save civilization? Maybe. That may not sound like a ringing endorsement, but it’s actually the best climate news we’ve had in a very long time. This agreement could still follow the path of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which seemed like a big deal but ended up being completely ineffectual. But there have been important changes in the world since then, which may finally have created the preconditions for action on global warming before it’s too late.
巴黎气候协议能拯救人类文明吗？有可能。这样的背书听起来也许不是很坚定，但在气候问题上，我们确实很久没有听到这么好的消息了。这份协议最终也许会和1997年的《京都议定书》一个下场，在当时看起来很不得了，结果完全没有用。然而，这个世界后来发生了很多变化，最终促成了对全球变暖采取行动的意向，但求一切不要发展到不可收拾的地步。
Until very recently there were two huge roadblocks in the way of any kind of global deal on climate: China’s soaring consumption of coal, and the implacable opposition of America’s Republican Party. The first seemed to mean that global greenhouse emissions would rise inexorably no matter what wealthy countries did, while the second meant that the biggest of those wealthy countries was unable to make credible promises, and hence unable to lead.
达成全球气候协议的道路上一直横亘着两大障碍：中国煤炭消耗的激增，和美国共和党的顽固反对。前者似乎意味着，无论富国怎么做，全球温室气体排放的增加都将是不可避免的，而后者则显示最大的那个富国无法做出可信的承诺，因此也就不能它来带头。
But there have been important changes on both fronts.
然而这两方面都出现了重要的变化。
On one side, there is a visible shift in Chinese attitudes — or at any rate, a shift that would be visible if the smog weren’t so thick. Seriously, China faces a huge air quality crisis, brought on largely by coal-burning, which makes it far more willing to wean itself from the worst form of fossil fuel consumption. And China’s economic growth — real income per capita has quadrupled since 1997 — also means that it has a rapidly growing middle class that demands a higher quality of life, including air that’s relatively safe to breathe.
一方面，中国的态度转变是清晰可见的——或者说，要不是雾霾那么重，应该是能看到的。玩笑放在一边，中国正面临一场严重的空气质量危机，很大程度上是燃煤造成的，这促使它愈发迫切地想戒除这种最糟糕的化石燃料消耗形式。自1997年至今，中国的人均国内生产总值已经涨了三倍，这样的发展也意味着会有一个迅速成长起来的中产阶级，他们需要获得更高品质的生活，包括可以相对安全地吸入的空气。
So China is playing a very different role now than it did in the past. One indicator: some of the usual suspects on the right have suddenly changed their line. They used to argue that U.S. emission limits would be useless, because China would just keep polluting; now they’re starting to argue that U.S. action isn’t necessary, because China will cut coal consumption whatever we do.
因此中国现在扮演的角色和以前是很不一样的。其中一个表现：一些右翼的老面孔突然改变口径了。他们以前说限制美国的排放没意义，因为中国会继续污染；现在他们开始说美国的行动没有必要，因为不管我们怎么做，中国都会削减煤炭消耗。
Which brings us to the U.S. Republican attitudes haven’t changed, except for the worse: the G.O.P. is spiraling ever deeper into a black hole of denial and anti-science conspiracy theorizing. The game-changing news is that this may not matter as much as we thought.
因此就要说说美国共和党的态度，他们非但没变，反而还更糟了：大共和党正继续堕入否认和反科学阴谋论的深渊。而改变局面的一个消息是，这态度造成的影响，没有我们想象那么大。
It’s true that America can’t take broad-based action on climate without new legislation, and that won’t happen as long as Republicans retain a lock on the House. But President Obama has moved to limit emissions from power plants — a big part of the solution we need — through executive action. And this move has already had the effect of restoring U.S. climate credibility abroad, letting Mr. Obama take a leading role in Paris.
是的，在没有新立法的情况下，美国不可能采取大规模的气候行动，而只要共和党继续把持着众议院，立法也就不可能。然而奥巴马总统已经开始通过行政命令限制发电站的排放——这在我们的解决方案里占很大一块。此举正挽回美国在气候问题上的国际信誉，让奥巴马在巴黎可以占据一个主导地位。
Still, what reason is there to believe that the accord will really change the world’s trajectory? Nations have agreed both to emission targets and to regular review of their success or failure in meeting those targets; but there are no penalties other than censure for countries that fail to deliver.
但是，有什么理由相信协议能真正改变世界的轨迹呢？各国已经同意了一个排放目标，并会对自己在实现目标过程中的成败进行定期评估；但是对没完成的国家也顶多是加以谴责，没什么惩罚措施。
And achieving those emission targets would definitely hurt some powerful special interests, since it would mean leaving most of the world’s remaining fossil fuels in the ground, never to be burned. So what will stop the fossil fuel industry from buying enough politicians to turn the accord into a dead letter?
而且，要实现这些排放目标，势必会损及一些强大的利益集团，因为这意味着全世界剩下的那些化石燃料大部分将留在地下，永不能燃烧。怎样才能阻止化石燃料行业去收买足够多的政客，把协议变成一纸空文呢？
The answer, I’d suggest, is that new technology has fundamentally changed the rules.
在我看来，办法就在彻底改变了规则的新技术上。
Many people still seem to believe that renewable energy is hippie-dippy stuff, not a serious part of our future. Either that, or they have bought into propaganda that portrays it as some kind of liberal boondoggle (Solyndra! Benghazi! Death panels!) The reality, however, is that costs of solar and wind power have fallen dramatically, to the point where they are close to competitive with fossil fuels even without special incentives — and progress on energy storage has made their prospects even better. Renewable energy has also become a big employer, much bigger these days than the coal industry.
很多人似乎至今都认为，可再生能源是痴人说梦，对我们的未来不会有太大影响。要么就是听信了洗脑宣传那一套，认为这又是自由派在瞎折腾（索林卓！班加西！死亡委员会！）然而，现实是太阳能和风能的成本都大幅下降了，已经到了无需任何特殊补贴就能跟化石燃料竞争的地步——能源存储技术的进步让它们的前景愈发光明。可再生能源还成了用人大户，现在的用工规模比煤炭产业要大得多。
This energy revolution has two big implications. The first is that the cost of sharp emission reductions will be much less than even optimists used to assume — dire warnings from the right used to be mostly nonsense, but now they’re complete nonsense. The second is that given a moderate boost — the kind that the Paris accord could provide — renewable energy could quickly give rise to new interest groups with a positive stake in saving the planet, offering an offset to the Kochs and suchlike.
这场能源革命会带来两样东西。一是大幅削减排放的成本会比此前的乐观估计还要低——右翼的那些惊悚的警告，以前听来大多是胡扯，现在就是彻头彻尾的胡扯了。另外，只要稍加助推——巴黎协议就可以做到——可再生能源就能迅速成就一个新的利益集团，拯救地球在这个集团眼里是有利可图的，他们会去制衡科克兄弟(Kochs)之流。
Of course, it could easily go all wrong. President Cruz or President Rubio might scuttle the whole deal, and by the time we get another chance to do something about climate it could be too late.
当然，这些随时有可能搞砸。克鲁兹(Cruz)总统或卢比奥(Rubio)总统会毁灭整个协议，等到下一次我们有机会去处理气候问题的时候，可能已经晚了。
But it doesn’t have to happen. I don’t think it’s naïve to suggest that what came out of Paris gives us real reason to hope in an area where hope has been all too scarce. Maybe we’re not doomed after all.
但这并非不可实现。在这样一个很少看得到希望的领域，巴黎大会的成果让我们有理由去期待，我不认为这想法很幼稚。说不定我们还有救呢。