PARIS — A gunman jumped out of a car, killed a police officer and wounded two others on the Champs-Élysées in central Paris Thursday night, French officials said.
巴黎——法国官员说，周四晚上，一名枪手从汽车上跳下，在巴黎市中心的香榭丽舍大道上射杀一名警察，射伤另外两人。
The gunman was shot dead by police as he tried to flee on foot, Pierre-Henry Brandet, a French Interior Ministry spokesman, told the BFMTV news channel.
法国内政部发言人皮埃尔-亨利·布莱德特(Pierre-Henry Brandet)告诉BFMTV新闻频道说，枪手试图徒步逃跑时被警方击毙。
President François Hollande, addressing the nation from the Élysée presidential palace, not far from where the shooting occurred, said that French authorities were “convinced” that the shooting pointed to a terrorist act.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在距离枪击案不远处的爱丽舍宫总统府发表讲话，说法国当局“确信”这起枪击事件属于恐怖主义活动。
And, late Friday, the Islamic State issued a statement claiming responsibility for the shooting.
周五晚些时候，伊斯兰国(IS)发表声明，称对这起枪击案负责。
Brandet said that shortly before 9 p.m. Paris time a car pulled up to a police vehicle that was parked on the famous boulevard.
布莱德特说，当地时间快到晚9点时，一辆汽车靠近停在这条著名大道上的一辆警车。
The man opened fire on the police vehicle with an automatic weapon, killing an officer. He then “tried to leave by running away while aiming at, and trying to target, other police officers,” Brandet said.
这名男子使用自动武器朝警车开火，杀死一名警官。然后“他试图离开，一边跑一边瞄准，试图向其他警察开枪”，布莱德特说。
“He managed to wound two others and was shot dead by the police forces,” Brandet added. It was not immediately known if anyone else was in the attacker’s car.
“枪手在被警方击毙之前，又射伤了另外两个人，”布莱德特说。现在还不知道袭击者的车里是否有其他人。
Brandet said that the exact sequence of events was still unclear, as was whether the assailant had acted alone. He denied reports that a second officer had died and said that the identity of the gunman had not been clearly established. The officers, he said, had been “deliberately targeted.”
布莱德特说，凶手是否单独行事，以及事件发生的确切顺序尚不清楚。他否认了还有一名警员遇难的报道，声称枪手的身份尚未查明。他说枪手是“特意针对”这些警官的。
Hollande said he would convene a national security meeting Friday morning and that a national tribute would be paid to the slain officer.
奥朗德说，他将于周五上午召开国家安全会议，被害警官将受到全国哀悼。
Hollande said that a passer-by had also been wounded in the shooting, but he did not say how badly or provide other details.
奥朗德说，一名路人在枪击事件中受了伤，但没有提到伤情严重程度和其他细节。
The Islamic State statement, on the group’s Amaq news agency, was published first in Arabic and later in French. Citing a “source,” it said that the attack was the work of someone named Abu Yousuf al-Belgiki, “who is one of the soldiers of the Caliphate.”
伊斯兰国通过其阿玛克新闻社(Amaq)发表声明，首先发布的是阿拉伯文，然后是法文版本。它援引“知情人士”的消息称，枪手名叫阿布·优素福·艾比利基(Abu Yousuf al-Belgiki)，“是一名哈里发战士”。
French media reported that officials had issued an arrest warrant for a suspect who had arrived by train from Belgium.
法国媒体报道说，警方发出了针对一名从比利时乘坐火车抵达法国的疑犯的逮捕令。