BERLIN — For months, hundreds of thousands of men, women and children have literally marched their way into Europe, fleeing war, poverty and hunger, arriving in such huge numbers that they set off uncommon displays of compassion — and outright acts of fear.
柏林——数月来，为了躲避战火、贫困和饥饿，成千上万的男人、女人、儿童步行走进欧洲。抵达欧洲的人数如此之多，以至于有些欧洲人表现出了异乎寻常的同情心，但也有人表现得惊慌失措。
Even before the Paris attacks Friday, some of the most welcoming Europeans were beginning to lose patience. Borders were closed, benefits cut, warnings issued in Arabic to stay away.
即使在周五巴黎发生的袭击之前，最欢迎难民的一些欧洲人就已经开始失去耐心。一些国家关闭边境，削减福利，还用阿拉伯语的告示警告不要靠近。
But Saturday, French officials revealed what could prove to be a turning point in the debate over migration: One of the attackers was carrying a Syrian passport, and perhaps more ominously, may have entered Europe along the migrant trail.
周六，法国官员披露的情况可能会成为这场移民辩论中的一个转折点。一名袭击者带着叙利亚护照，更糟糕的可能是，他可能是通过移民路线进入欧洲的。
Poland moved first to shut the door.
波兰最先采取行动关闭了国门。
“After Paris, we lost security guarantees,” said Konrad Szymanski, Poland's new minister for relations with other European nations. He added, “The tragic events in Paris showed weakness in Europe.”
“巴黎事件发生后，我们失去了安全保障，”波兰负责与其他欧洲国家关系的新任部长康拉德·齐曼斯基(Konrad Szymanski)说。“巴黎发生的悲剧性事件显示出了欧洲的弱点。”
Europe never knew how to deal with the migrants. Greece pushed them to Macedonia. Hungary put up a fence. Austria and Germany welcomed them, for a time. But there was no coordinated strategy for the 28 members of the European Union. The only agreement, after summit meetings and other talks, was a plan to distribute 160,000 refugees among all the member states. It was a fraction of the total migrant population, and the agreement was achieved only under intense pressure from Germany.
欧洲一直不知道该如何应对移民。希腊把他们赶到马其顿，匈牙利树起了围栏，奥地利和德国一度欢迎他们。但在由28个成员国组成的欧洲联盟，并没有协调的策略。经过各种峰会和其他场合的沟通，各方达成的唯一共识就是计划将16万名难民分配给所有的成员国。这只是全体移民中很小的一部分，而且共识也是在德国的巨大压力下才达成的。
Now, Poland is moving toward undoing that deal.
现在，波兰正采取行动，瓦解这一共识。
The incoming conservative government in Warsaw quickly criticized the plan, Szymanski wrote in wPolityce.pl, a right-wing journal. “In view of the tragic events in Paris, we do not see the political possibility of executing this policy. Poland must retain full control over its borders.”
华沙新上台的保守派政府很快就对方案提出了批评，齐曼斯基在右翼网站wPolityce.pl上写道，“目睹巴黎的惨剧，我们看不到执行这一政策的政治可能性。波兰必须对自己的边境保留完全控制。”
Under the relocation plan, Poland would receive only 9,000 of the migrants, but Szymanski said via email Saturday that Poland would agree to accept them only with “security guarantees,” including a full security check on “every person covered by international protection in Europe.”
按照迁移方案，波兰只需接收9000名移民，但齐曼斯基周六通过电子邮件表示，只有在有“安全保障”的情况下，波兰才会接收他们，这包括对“每一个在欧洲受到国际保护的人”进行全面的安全核查。
Poland's determination to scuttle the pact may spread, dooming it even as investigators in Paris are still trying to establish the identities and backgrounds of the assailants who killed more than 120 people Friday. It was too soon to say for certain whether the attackers had links to the refugees from the Syrian conflict, but investigators believe that militants have tried to hide among the masses legitimately seeking asylum.
波兰瓦解上述共识的决心可能很快就会蔓延开来，虽然巴黎的调查人员仍在努力认定袭击者的身份和背景。袭击者周五杀害了超过120人。现在为时尚早，无法断言袭击者是否与躲避叙利亚冲突的难民有联系，但调查人员相信，武装分子曾试图隐藏在合法寻求庇护的民众当中。
Although the practice appears rare, a French intelligence official said it would not be the first time that a militant had mingled in the stream of migrants arriving in Europe via Turkey and Greece. He said French security services had recently identified one in Calais.
尽管这样的做法似乎很少见，但一名法国情报官员透露，在通过土耳其和希腊抵达欧洲的移民人潮当中，混入武装分子的情况，此前就发生过。他表示，法国安全部门最近在加莱查出了一名。
A former senior intelligence official, who is still well-briefed, said: “This is becoming a strategy for them: to embed among the migrants.”
一位如今仍消息灵通的前高级情报官员表示，“这已经成了他们的一个策略，即混入移民当中。”
Indeed, the attacks emboldened some politicians who had already voiced fears about the security risks and financial costs of trying to accommodate hundreds of thousands of people seeking refuge in a region with its own economic troubles. Populist and conservative leaders around Europe on Saturday stepped up their calls to tighten or shut borders and to halt the flow of migrants, many of them from Syria, where the Islamic State looms large.
欧洲面临着自身的经济难题，如今要接纳成千上万寻求庇护者又会带来安全风险，这已经令一些政治人物表达了恐惧之情。而袭击事件让这部分政治人物更加大胆。周六，欧洲各国的民粹和保守派领导人物更加强烈地呼吁，加紧边境管控或关闭边境，从而遏制移民的流入。其中很多难民来自叙利亚，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在那里影响巨大。
Former communist countries in Central and Eastern Europe have insisted that their largely homogeneous, impoverished societies cannot cope with a large influx of outsiders — who usually prefer to head for wealthier, more multicultural countries like Germany, Austria or Sweden.
中欧和东欧的前共产主义国家坚持称，本国的社会大体是同质的，而且相当贫穷，无法应对大量外来人口的流入。而外来者常常也更倾向于前往较为富裕、文化更多元的国家，如德国、奥地利、瑞典。
On Saturday, conservative politicians from Slovakia and populist and nationalist leaders in Western Europe, like Marine Le Pen in France and Geert Wilders in the Netherlands, swiftly used denunciations of the Paris violence to bolster their calls for keeping migrants out and borders shut.
周六，斯洛伐克的保守派政治人物，以及西欧国家的民粹和民族主义领袖，如法国的马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)和荷兰的海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)，迅速地通过谴责巴黎的暴力袭击，来强化自己将移民拦在国门之外、确保边境关闭的呼吁。
Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, found herself increasingly isolated at home and around the Continent over her call for protecting refugees fleeing war, poverty and terrorism in the Middle East. In an unusually emotional appearance Saturday morning, she notably did not change her stance.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)发觉，无论在国内还是在欧洲大陆，自己都愈发受到孤立，原因是她呼吁保护那些为了躲避战争、贫困和恐怖主义而逃离中东的人。默克尔周六早间露面时，超乎寻常地情绪化，但值得注意的是她并没有改变立场。
“We know that our life of freedom is stronger than terror,” Merkel said. “Let us answer the terrorists by living our values with courage.”
“我知道我们自由的生活比恐怖主义更强大，”默克尔说。“让我们通过勇敢地践行我们的价值观，来回应恐怖分子。”
But even Merkel could not ignore the potential security threat, and so she, too, huddled Saturday with her top security officials. Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, who has been at odds with Merkel over curbing the refugee flow, announced tighter monitoring of rail and air links with France and appealed for unity in the face of “barbarous murderers.”
但即使是默克尔也无法忽视潜在的安全威胁，所以她周六与该国最高安全官员展开紧密磋商。德国内政部长托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)在限制难民流入的议题上与默克尔存在分歧。德梅齐埃宣布，将会对来往法国的铁路和航空线路进行更紧密的检查，并呼吁面对“野蛮的杀人犯”，要团结一致。
He said the police would be watching known sympathizers with not only extreme Islamist groups but also right-wing groups. Germany has recorded more than 500 attacks on shelters for migrants this year.
他表示，警方会对极端伊斯兰主义团体的同情者，以及右翼团体的同情者予以密切关注。今年，德国警方已经就500多起针对移民庇护所的袭击事件展开调查。