Officials had urged Parisians to stay home and out of the streets. Museums were closed, and so was the Eiffel Tower. Despite that, defiant crowds still gathered on Saturday evening in Place de la République, just as they had after this city was last attacked.
官员们力劝巴黎人待在家中，不要走上街头。博物馆和埃菲尔铁塔都已关闭。尽管如此，周六晚间，无所畏惧的民众仍然聚集在共和国广场，就像他们在巴黎上次遭到袭击后做的那样。
“I came here with my children to let them see that we should not be afraid,” said Raphaella Giraudi, who had tears in her eyes as she held the hands of her 11-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son.
“我带着孩子们来到这里，让他们明白我们不应该害怕，”眼含泪水的拉菲拉·吉劳迪(Raphaella Giraudi)牵着11岁女儿和5岁儿子的手说。
Throughout the evening, scores of people passed through the square, huddling around the monument at its center, with its looming statue of Marianne, the symbol of the French republic.
整个晚上，很多人穿过广场，挤在广场中心纪念碑周围，法兰西共和国的象征——玛丽安娜(Marianne)的雕像隐约可见。
They lit candles and left messages with condolences, quotes and poems. Children left behind drawings. At one point, someone brought a speaker and played John Lennon’s “Imagine.”
他们点起蜡烛，留言哀悼、奉上引言和诗歌。孩子们留下图画。一度有人带来扬声器播放约翰·列侬(John Lennon)的歌曲《想象》(Imagine)。
“There is a lot of dignity in this gathering,” said Yannick Mercier, a 49-year-old plumber. “This statue has become a symbol.”
“这场集会很庄重，”49岁的水管工雅尼克·莫瑟尔(Yannick Mercier)说“这座雕像已经成了一个象征。”
In January, after gunmen stormed the Paris offices of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, Parisians came to the square to publicly mourn. There was a silent march through the square and a yellow pencil emblazoned with the “Je Suis Charlie” was placed in the hand of a figurine at the base of the monument.
1月，枪手袭击讽刺报纸《查理周报》的巴黎办公室后，巴黎人来到广场举行公开悼念活动。当时进行了一场无声的游行，纪念碑底座的一个小雕像手上放了一支铅笔，上面有“我是查理”字样。
There was a pervasive sense of defiance among those here. They believed that the attacks were intended to curtail their way of life.
人群中许多人在表达某种蔑视。他们认为这些袭击是为了压抑他们的生活方式。
“The terrorists have lost,” said Maxime Lauret, 19, who came with two friends on Saturday, “because, as you see today, many people having a drink outside, in cafes.”
“恐怖分子输了，”19岁的马克西姆·劳雷(Maxime Lauret)说，他在周六和两个朋友一同前来，“因为你看，今天很多人还是在外面、在咖啡馆喝东西。”
For Mr. Mercier, it was a satisfying sight. “I am happy to see that people are not afraid,” he said.
此情此景让莫瑟尔感到欣慰。“看到大家没有被吓倒，我很高兴，”他说。