PARIS —The far-right party of Marine Le Pen was poised to make major gains in regional French elections on Sunday in the wake of terrorist attacks that traumatized the country last month.
巴黎——法国在上个月发生恐怖袭击、遭受创伤后，于周日迎来了地方选举，马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)领导的极右翼政党料将在选举中赢得更多选票。
When the polls closed after the first round of voting, projections indicated that her National Front party was winning outright in two of France’s 13 regions and leading in several others. Trailing were the right-leaning parties, including the Republicans led by former President Nicolas Sarkozy. Even farther behind were the Socialists, whose leader François Hollande is the president.
第一轮投票结束后，预测显示，她领导的国民阵线(National Front)在13个大区中的两个大区大胜，并且在其他几个大区处于领先地位。紧随其后的是右翼政党，其中包括前总统尼古拉·萨科奇(Nicolas Sarkozy)领导的共和党(Republicans)。再往后才是现总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)所属的社会党(Socialists)。
Appearing before her supporters, Ms. Le Pen called it a “magnificent” result, saying the National Front was “the only party that can reconquer the lost territories of the republic, of Calais, where we won 50 percent of the votes, or of the suburbs,” she said..”
勒庞在支持者面前露面时称，这是一个“绝好的”结果。她说，国民阵线是“唯一能够重新夺回共和国失去领土的政党，比如在我们赢得50%选票的加莱，再比如郊区。”
Ms. Le Pen was referring to the French city on the English Channel that is now home to more than 4,000 migrants hoping to reach Britain and to the “banlieues” as the suburbs of major French cities are known, many of which have sizable Muslim populations.
勒庞提到的加莱是位于英吉利海峡边的一个法国城市，那里现在有4000多名希望前往英国的移民。而她提到的“郊区”(banlieues)是指，许多法国大城市的郊区居住着相当多的穆斯林人口。
“It is the only party to defend an authentically French republic,” she added and to be dedicated to “the preservation of our way of life.”
她还表示，“这是唯一能够捍卫纯正的法兰西共和国的政党”，她将致力于“维护我们的生活方式”。
With 71 percent of the votes counted, the turnout nationwide was expected to be 51 percent, slightly higher than for the last regional elections in 2010.
目前已经统计了71%的票数，全国的总投票率预计会达到51%，略高于上一次也就是2010年举行的地方选举。
The second round of voting next Sunday will determine the final results. In the last several elections the National Front has done well in the first round but found it harder to sustain gains in the second, when other competing parties have united or withdrawn to keep the far-right from winning.
本周日举行的第二轮投票将决定最终结果。在过去几次选举中，国民阵线在第一轮表现很好，但很难在第二轮保住胜利成果，因为到那时候，其他竞争对手会联手或退出，以阻止这个极右翼政党获胜。
However, this time the high numbers for the National Front in a number of places suggests that the old political calculus may not hold, especially if the more traditional conservatives led by Mr. Sarkozy refuse to join with the Socialists to form a bloc against her. Mr. Sarkozy announced after his party’s second-place showing that he would not join with other parties in an effort to defeat the National Front.
然而，国民阵线这次在很多地方取得高票数的现象说明，那种旧的政治考量可能无法继续产生效果，特别是如果萨科齐所属的较为传统的保守党派拒绝与社会党联合起来对抗勒庞的话。萨科齐在其政党取得第二的成绩后宣布，他不会与其他政党联手击败国民阵线。
Ms. Le Pen and her party have thrived on an anti-immigration message that has veered on anti-Muslim, as well as a call for re-establishing European borders between countries. These notions had already found traction as France faced an influx of Muslim immigrants from war-torn areas of the world. But she gained even more momentum after the attacks in Paris on Nov. 13 in which 130 people were killed.
勒庞及其政党凭借其近乎于反穆斯林的反移民立场，以及恢复欧洲各国边界的诉求而不断发展壮大。世界上蒙受战争疮痍的地区有大量穆斯林移民涌入法国，促使这些观点获得了支持。但巴黎在11月13日遭到恐怖袭击，导致130人遇难后，勒庞的声势进一步壮大。
The regional election vote rather than being primarily about local issues as it has sometimes been in the past, was a “national vote for or against the government,” said Jean Yves Camus, an expert on the National Front and the far-right in Europe.
研究国民阵线和欧洲极右翼势力的专家让·伊夫·加缪(Jean Yves Camus)表示，与过去有时出现的情况不同，此次地方选举的主要考虑不在于地方问题，而是“有关支持还是反对政府的全国性投票”。
“But it’s also the case that the regional elections are unrolling in a very difficult, tense context and a very particular one,” he said.
他说，“但此次地方选举是在极为艰难、紧张的背景下开展的，是一场很特别的选举。”