PARIS — Past the racks of hair accessories on the ground floor of the Monoprix supermarket on the corner of the Rue Réaumur and the Boulevard de Sébastopol in the Second Arrondissement, there is a door marked staff only.
巴黎——巴黎第二区雷奥米尔街(Rue Réaumur)和塞瓦斯托波尔大道(Boulevard de Sébastopol)的街角有一家模诺皮超市(Monoprix)。穿过超市一层一排排的发饰货架后，有一扇门标注着“仅限员工”。
Slip through that passageway and turn left down a spiraling metal staircase into the basement. Past pallets of juice and soda bottles, down another flight of stairs, you will find a grim reminder of Paris’s history: a mass grave, with row upon row of medieval skeletons, 316 in total.
通过门后的走道向左转，再沿着金属旋转楼梯一路向下就来到了地下室。穿过瓶瓶罐罐的果汁和碳酸饮料，再向下走一截楼梯，一段可怖的巴黎历史就会呈现在你面前：一个集体墓穴，一排接一排中世纪的骸骨，共计316具。
Archaeologists believe the discovery, unearthed in January, is part of the cemetery of a medieval hospital called the Hôpital de la Trinité that used to stand nearby. The long-buried mass grave is a reminder that Paris, for all its surface grandeur, is still replete with undiscovered archaeological treasures, some grand, others much more grisly.
这个墓穴是在1月被发掘的。考古学家们认为，它属于中世纪时附近的一所医院的墓园，那所医院叫“三一医院”(Hôpital de la Trinité)。这个长久不见天日的集体墓穴提示人们，无论巴黎表面上何等气派，这里到处都是还未发掘的考古宝藏，有些壮丽宏伟，另一些则阴森恐怖。
For archaeologists, though, grisly can be good.
对于考古学家来说，阴森恐怖可能是好消息。
“Each dig is an event, but a cemetery is even better, because you have a real population at hand,” said Boris Bove, a historian and professor at the Université Paris 8 who recently co-wrote a book on the French capital in the Middle Ages. “Most of the time, you only stumble upon buildings.”
“每次发掘都是一个大事件，但如果是发掘坟墓，那就更好了，因为你能直接接触到曾经活生生的人，”历史学家、巴黎第八大学(Université Paris 8)教授鲍里斯·博夫(Boris Bove)说。“大部分时候只能偶然挖掘出建筑物。”他最近与人合著了一本有关中世纪法国首都的书。
The skeletons were excavated by a team from France’s National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research, or Inrap, led by Isabelle Abadie, an anthropologist and archaeologist.
将遗骸发掘出土的，是法国国家考古学保护研究所（National Institute for Preventive Archaeological Research，又简称Inrap）一个由人类学家和考古学家伊莎贝尔·阿巴迪(Isabelle Abadie)带领的团队。
“There are babies, there are young children, there are teenagers, there are adults, men, women, elderly people,” Ms. Abadie said on a recent afternoon at an Inrap warehouse in La Courneuve, a suburb on the northern outskirts of Paris, where the skeletal remains are now housed.
“墓穴中有婴儿、年幼的孩子、青少年，也有成年人，有男有女，也有老人，”最近一天的下午，阿巴迪在Inrap位于新庭(La Courneuve)的一座仓库中说。出土遗骸目前都被存放在这个位于巴黎北部边缘的郊区。
“This was a mortality crisis, that much is clear,” she added, gesturing toward stacks of crates that contained hundreds of numbered plastic bags, each of them full of bones tinted brown by the passing of centuries. Nearby, some of the remains had been carefully washed with water and toothbrushes and left to dry on metal trays.
“这是一次死亡危机，这点很清楚，”她一边这样补充，一边指着一摞一摞箱子。箱子里是几百个标了号的塑料袋，每个袋子里都满是骨头。过去几百年的时间已经让骨头变成了褐色。就在不远处，部分遗骸已经被仔细地用水和牙刷清洁过，放在金属托盘上晾干。
Ms. Abadie and her team spent two and a half months excavating the remains from eight different graves covering more than 1,000 square feet, sometimes up to five people deep. In the main pit, 175 bodies were neatly aligned head to toe. Those found in the other, smaller graves were jumbled together — a sign, perhaps, of the rush to bury the dead during a worsening epidemic.
阿巴迪和她的团队花了两个半月的时间、从八个不同的墓穴中发掘遗骸。这些墓穴占地超过1000平方英尺（约93平米），有时可达五人之深。在主墓穴里，175具遗体头脚相接整齐地排列着。从其他较小的墓穴中出土的遗骸，则随意地堆在一起——大概是瘟疫蔓延、匆匆埋葬尸体的迹象。
DNA testing and carbon dating could take months, so it is too early for Ms. Abadie to know for sure when or how the bodies came to be buried where they were. “It could be the plague, it could be a famine, it can be many things at this stage — but there are no traces of trauma, so these aren’t deaths linked to an act of violence or war,” she said.
DNA检测和碳元素年代测定法往往耗时数月，所以阿巴迪现在还无法断言这些遗体是什么时候、如何被埋葬在这里的。“有可能是因为鼠疫，有可能是饥荒，目前来看有多种可能——但遗骸上没有创伤痕迹，所以死因应该与暴力和战争无关，”她说。
Mr. Bove, the historian, said Paris was struck by the plague, like much of Europe, during the great epidemic of the late 1340s. “We can’t give an absolute number, but it wouldn’t have been unlikely that the city lost a third of its population,” he said.
历史学家博夫说，和欧洲大部分地区一样，在14世纪40年代末鼠疫大流行期间，巴黎也受到了鼠疫的侵袭。“具体的数字我们无法提供，但巴黎失去三分之一的人口也不是不可能的，”他说。
Pierre Vallat, deputy regional director for Inrap, said the Hôpital de la Trinité was built outside city limits in the early 13th century and had at different times served as a shelter for the poor and for pilgrims, a place of religious teaching that put on biblical plays, an infectious disease center and even a vocational school for children.
Inrap的区域副主管皮埃尔·瓦拉(Pierre Vallat)称，三一医院建于13世纪早期的城市边缘之外，并且在不同的时间里，分别充当过穷人和朝圣者的庇护所，为传达宗教教诲上演过圣经戏剧，充当过传染病中心，甚至还曾向孩子们教授职业技能。
Mr. Vallat and Ms. Abadie said the discovery was the first medieval hospital setting to be excavated in Paris. Being able to study the remains of those who lived in the capital, not in distant provinces, would yield precious information on decisions made by those in power and how they affected the population.
瓦拉和阿巴迪说，此次发现是巴黎第一个得到发掘的中世纪医院遗址。能够研究当年居住在首都，而不是遥远外省的人的遗骸，能够得到宝贵的信息，从而了解当权者如何做出决策，以及那些决策如何影响民众。
“The history of this hospital really bears witness to the whole history of France,” Mr. Vallat said. “This is a total history, not just the history of the rich and famous. This isn’t Versailles.”
“这家医院的历史真的见证着法国的全部历史，”瓦拉先生说。“这是一个全面的历史，不仅仅是富人和名流的历史。这里不是凡尔赛宫。”
The contents of many medieval cemeteries were transferred into the Paris catacombs in the late 18th century, though some of the remains at this burial site might have been overlooked when the hospital closed during the French Revolution and, in 1812, when it was finally dismantled and the site was covered up by new construction.
许多中世纪墓穴里的遗骸在18世纪晚期被转移到了巴黎地下墓穴，不过这个埋葬地的一些遗骸，在这所医院于法国大革命期间的1812年关闭时，可能被忽略掉了。那时医院最终被拆除，之后又被新的建筑所覆盖。
The French businessman Félix Potin opened one of Paris’s first modern retail stores at Rue Réaumur and Boulevard de Sébastopol in 1860. After the company was sold off in the 1990s, that location became the Monoprix, which is still adorned with decorated balconies and topped by a large gray dome today.
法国商人菲利克斯·波丹(Felix Potin)在1860年于塞瓦斯托波尔大道和雷奥米尔街的路口开设了巴黎最早的现代零售店之一。在1990年代公司被出售之后，那个位置成了模诺皮，时至今日仍有装潢考究的阳台和灰色的大穹顶。
Because Paris has been continuously occupied since the Middle Ages, few places can easily be excavated. Archaeological digs are rare and initiated only when construction workers accidentally stumble upon ruins or remains, or when Inrap comes on sites before work begins to pre-empt potential damage.
因为巴黎在中世纪之后不断有人迁来居住，没有哪个地方可以轻易地挖掘。考古挖掘很少开展，而且只有当建筑工人偶然发现废墟或遗骸，或者当Inrap在施工开始之前预防潜在危险时才会进行。
“From an archaeological standpoint, Paris is almost like unexploited terrain,” Mr. Bove said.
“从考古学的角度来讲，巴黎几乎是个未开发的地带。”博夫说。
In 2013, during construction of a new reception hall at Police Headquarters on the Île de la Cité, an Inrap team excavated several layers of history, including the foundations of a 17th-century Barnabite church. In 2006, construction of a research facility at the Pierre and Marie Curie University on the Left Bank led to the discovery of remnants of a road and of several houses from the Gallo-Roman era, which ended in the fifth century.
2013年，在对城岛(Ile de la Cité)上一座新建的警察总部接待大厅进行施工的过程中，Inrap的一个团队发掘了好几层历史的片段，其中包括17世纪一个圣保罗教士会教堂的地基。2006年，皮埃尔与玛丽居里大学(Pierre and Marie Curie University)位于塞纳河左岸的一所研究机构在施工过程中，发现了高卢罗马时期的一条街道和几座房屋的遗迹。高卢罗马时代结束于5世纪。
When management of the Monoprix supermarket decided to renovate the store’s basement, workers came across long-forgotten cellars, and, underneath them, the skeletons.
当模诺皮超市的管理层决定翻新店面的地下室时，工人们无意中发现了被人遗忘已久的地窖，以及地窖下面的骷髅。
Sometimes, digging things up is the only way to reveal what archives cannot. In the 1980s, when construction of a glass pyramid in the courtyard of the Louvre uncovered many older portions of the royal palace, it was the first time archaeologists were able to see the city’s 14th-century outer wall, built under the reign of Charles V.
有时候，只有把东西挖出来，才能揭示档案所不能揭示的事情。在80年代，修建卢浮宫广场的一座玻璃金字塔时，发现了王宫的许多旧有部分，那是考古学家第一次看到14世纪查理五世统治时期这座城市的外墙。
The real discoveries are still buried, and the French capital’s former inhabitants have left plenty to find, especially in its heart, where inhabitants piled historical layers on top of each other.
真正的发现还深埋地底，法国首都以前的居民留下了许多遗迹有待发掘，尤其是在城市的中心，居民们堆叠了一层又一层的历史。