All of us may be trying desperately (or at least occasionally) to eat enough wild Alaskan salmon, leafy greens and quinoa salads. But let’s be honest; if we’re making the effort to pack a bag and book a flight in search of flavor, it’s going to be for something decadent.
我们大家可能会努力（至少也是偶尔）去吃很多阿拉斯加三文鱼、绿叶蔬菜和藜麦沙拉。不过，咱们实话实说吧，如果我们不辞辛苦地整理行装、预订机票去寻找美食，那一定是去找不健康的食品。
The Galway International Oyster and Seafood Festival in Ireland and the Salon du Chocolat in Paris are two more obvious choices for edible extravagance. Having just celebrated its 60th anniversary, the oyster festival has grown from a banquet for 30 to one of Ireland’s most celebrated events, with music, shucking competitions and historical tours marking the beginning of the oyster harvest (Sept. 25 to 27).
爱尔兰的戈尔韦国际牡蛎海鲜美食节和巴黎的巧克力沙龙是享用侈美食的两个好选择。牡蛎节刚庆祝完60周年纪念，它从一个30人的宴会发展成爱尔兰最著名的活动之一，包括音乐、剥壳大赛以及标志着牡蛎收获季开始的历史游览（9月25日至27日）。
Salon du Chocolat hosts several events focused on the darling of indulgences, this year in Japan, Belgium, Russia and England; all amuse-bouches to the main course in Paris, a virtual fondue pot of international confectioners and pastry chefs mixing, tasting, building towers out of, and designing clothing with cacao (Oct. 28 to Nov. 1).
巧克力沙龙通常会举办好几场活动，全是围绕着这种人们用来宠爱自己的食品。今年的活动将在日本、比利时、俄罗斯和英格兰举办；巴黎将展示全套巧克力大餐，从小点心到主菜应有仅有。国际糖果商和糕点大厨们会在这些活动中搅拌、品尝巧克力，用可可建大楼、设计服装（10月28日至11月1日）。
But some of the world’s richest treats aren’t quite as refined. Take, for instance, the “doppelbock,” a doubly strong version of an already thick and malty beer first brewed by the Paulaner monks in Munich in the 17th century. Oddly, it was brewed during Lent, when fasting allowed only the consumption of liquids. The more potent the beer, the more nourishment they got, or so the story goes, and the local flock was happy to follow their example.
不过，世界上味道最浓郁的一些美食未必都这么精致。比如双倍浓郁的doppelbock柏龙啤酒。柏龙啤酒本就是口味厚重的麦芽啤酒，最初是17世纪慕尼黑修士们酿造的。奇怪的是，它是在大斋节(Lent)期间酿造的——大斋节期间禁食，只允许饮用液体。啤酒越浓郁，就越有营养，或者至少据说是这样的，所以当地人很乐意效仿修士们的榜样。
Today, the tradition is celebrated during Starkbierzeit, or “strong beer time,” the first of Germany’s spring beer festivals (Feb. 27 to March 15). It begins each year at the Nockherberg brewery’s Paulaner beer hall and garden, former home to those crafty friars, with the tapping of the first keg of Salvator, the original brew, just as strong. Look for other varieties, as well as oompah bands and other entertainment, at any of Munich’s abundant breweries.
如今，人们在浓啤酒节(Starkbierzeit)上庆祝这一传统，它是德国的第一个春季啤酒节（2月27日至3月15日）。每年，它在Nockherberg啤酒厂的柏龙啤酒屋和啤酒花园开始，当年那些手艺精湛的修士们就住在这里。啤酒节的第一个活动是拧开第一桶Salvator啤酒，也就是最初酿造的那种啤酒，它依然浓郁。你可以在慕尼黑的众多啤酒厂寻找其他口味和品牌的啤酒，以及各种娱乐节目。
The New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival may have mile-long trains of crawfish bread and stuffed-mirliton, but the gumbos and gravies of the South Louisiana Blackpot Festival & Cook-Offin Lafayette win crowds with personality. Each pot entered in the festival’s 10th anniversary cook-off this year (Oct. 23 to 24) represents centuries of Acadian and Cajun history, family recipes tweaked and tooled over the years to compete for modern palates.
新奥尔良爵士乐与遗产节上也许会有一英里长的小龙虾面包和填馅佛手瓜；拉斐特的南路易斯安那黑陶罐和烹饪大赛则以独特的秋葵汤和肉汁吸引游客。今年，这个美食节将迎来十周年纪念（10月23日至24日）。烹饪赛上的每个陶罐都代表着阿加底亚人和路易斯安那州法国后裔几百年的历史，这些家庭菜谱在漫长的岁月中不断演变，以迎合现代人的口味。
Crowds gather at competitors’ pots on Saturday evenings while the judges decide which wins the day in five categories: gravies, gumbos, cracklins (or “gratons”), jambalayas and desserts (yes, pies, cobblers and even cinnamon rolls cooked in cast iron).
周六晚上，观众聚集在参赛者的陶罐前，等待裁判们宣布当天的赢家，竞赛分为以下五个类别：肉汁、秋葵汤、猪油渣、什锦饭和甜品（是的，派和水果馅饼，甚至包括用铸铁锅做的肉桂卷）。
Americana plays throughout, from the region’s best zydeco to Appalachian bluegrass, topped off with an accordion contest and square dancing lessons. And in the campgrounds, where most out-of-towners settle in for the night, there’s more grilled boudin sausage and fried catfish to be shared, most likely along with a fiddled fais-do-do from a neighboring tent
美国传统贯穿活动全程，从该地区最著名的柴迪科舞到阿巴拉契亚蓝草音乐，还有手风琴大赛和方块舞课程。大部分外地人在露营地过夜，那里有烤猪血香肠和煎鲶鱼供大家分享，很可能从旁边帐篷里还会传来fais-do-do小提琴催眠曲。
Could there be a better promotion for a new music festival than the Great Wall of China? The Yin Yang Festival, which made its debut on the wall in Tianjin last fall, is to host a second edition in June (20 to 22). And while the music is a bit narrow in scope (the website touts it as “high quality noncommercial underground electronic dance music”), it can serve as a good jumping-off point for those who want to see more of Chinese culture.
要宣传一个新音乐节，还有什么比得过长城？去年秋天，阴阳音乐节在天津的长城上首次亮相，第二届将于今年6月（20至22日）举办。虽然该音乐节的乐曲范围有点窄（官网宣称它是“高品质的非商业地下电子舞曲”），但是对那些想更多了解中国文化的人来说，它是个很好的切入点。
Tickets include three days of access to the Great Wall, which knocks out a big portion of the to-do list, and the event coincides with one of China’s oldest cultural events, the 2,000-year-old Dragon Boat Festival. (Take the high-speed rail to Suzhou to watch races on Lake Jinji.)
购买门票后，你可以在长城上游玩三天，这是活动清单上的重头戏。该音乐节举办之际，正值中国最古老的节日之一——有2000年历史的端午节（你可以乘高铁到苏州观看金鸡湖上的龙舟赛）。