PARIS — In a signal of the French government’s concern about unauthorized drone flights in the capital, the Paris police detained three Al Jazeera journalists who were flying and filming a drone in a large park on the western edge of the city, according to a French prosecutor’s office.
巴黎——法国检察官办公室表示，巴黎警方拘押了三名在巴黎西郊边缘地带一座大型公园放飞和拍摄无人机的半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)记者。这显示法国政府对巴黎未经授权的无人机飞行情况感到担心。
The arrests came after a second straight night of unidentified flying objects being spotted over some of Paris’s most identifiable landmarks, Paris police officials said Wednesday, fanning the anxiety over the phenomenon that began to raise worries late last year.
巴黎警方周三表示，此前已连续两天在巴黎最著名的一些地标上空发现不明飞行物，人们对这种现象的担忧也由此增加。去年年底，这种现象开始引起担忧。
There was no apparent link between the arrests and the flights over central Paris on Monday and Tuesday nights, said Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre, the spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor. “One mustn’t conflate the two,” she said.
巴黎检方的女发言人阿涅丝·蒂博-勒居弗尔(Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre)称，三名记者被扣留一事与周一和周二晚上巴黎市中心上空的飞行物并无明显联系。她说，“不能把两件事混为一谈。”
One of the Al Jazeera journalists, Tristan Redman, worked previously at The International Herald Tribune, now known as the International New York Times.
其中一名半岛电视台记者特里斯坦·雷德曼(Tristan Redman)曾在《国际先驱论坛报》(The International Herald Tribune)工作，该报现已更名为《国际纽约时报》(International New York Times)。
Ms.Thibault-Lecuivre said that there were different hypotheses about why they were flying the drone, but “most notably that it was footage for a news piece.”
蒂博-勒居弗尔称，至于他们为何要放飞这架无人机，这里有几种猜测，但“最值得一提的是，它是一个新闻报道的素材”。
However, it is prohibited to fly drones over Paris without the authorization of the city’s prefect. Paris has been on a high security alert after terrorist attacks last month, including the assault on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, which left a total 20 people dead.
不过，在没有得到巴黎行政长官许可的情况下，是不能在巴黎飞行无人机的。自从上个月的恐怖袭击以来，巴黎一直处于高度安全戒备状态。上月，讽刺性报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)受到袭击，共导致20人死亡。
Ms. Thibault-Lecuivre said earlier in the day that it was drones from an unknown source that had been spotted overnight Monday and Tuesday near Les Invalides and Place de la Concorde, but that it was unclear how many drones had been involved and who was behind them. She did not say whether the overnight drone flights had been coordinated.
蒂博-勒居弗尔当天早些时候表示，周一和周二夜间，人们在荣军院(Les Invalides)和协和广场(Place de la Concorde)附近发现了来历不明的无人机，但尚不清楚有几架无人机牵涉其中，以及无人机的操纵者是谁。她也没有表示，连续两夜的无人机之间是否有关联。
The police said Tuesday that they were investigating “overflights by aircraft in a forbidden area” after the first sightings of nighttime, which circled the Eiffel Tower and the United States Embassy. The drone sightings raised security concerns a month after deadly terrorist attacks in the Paris area. The United States Embassy did not comment on the sightings. Last year, officials investigated another mysterious wave of drone flights over more than a dozen nuclear plants across France, raising concerns about security around the country’s primary energy sources.
警方周二表示，夜间首次发现无人机后，他们开始对“禁区中飞机器的飞行情况”进行调查——飞行器曾在埃菲尔铁塔和美国大使馆上空盘旋。一个月前，巴黎地区发生了致命的恐怖袭击，这些无人机则进一步引发了人们对安全的担忧。美国大使馆并未对这些发现置评。去年，官员对在法国各地十几座核电站上空飞行的另一拨神秘的无人机进行了调查，使人们开始担心法国主要能源来源的安全状况。
The authorities called those episodes an “organized provocation” aimed at “disrupting the surveillance chain and protection of these sites.”
官方称，这些事件是“有组织的挑衅行为”，其目的是“干扰这些地点的监控链和保护措施”。
The drones were described by police officials as small and civilian or commercial, rather than of a military type.
警方称，这些无人机体型较小，属于民用或商用，而非军用无人机。
The latest drone sightings in France took place several weeks after an off-duty employee for a United States government intelligence agency accidentally crashed a commercial drone on the grounds of the White House.
数周以前，美国政府情报机构的一名工作人员在休息期间，意外把一架商用无人机坠落在了白宫院内。