UPDATE: The Paris terrorist attacks were carried out with the help of three French brothers living in Belgium, the authorities said on Sunday, as they asked for the public’s assistance in finding one of them.
更新：官方周日透露，巴黎袭击事件是在比利时三名法籍兄弟的协助下完成的。官方呼吁公众帮助寻找其中的一个。
The French authorities said they were seeking Abdeslam Salah, 26, and described him as dangerous. The police warned the public: “Do not intervene on your own, under any circumstances.” Belgian officials said that his brother Ibrahim had died in the three-hour massacre and that another brother, Mohamed, had been detained Saturday in the Molenbeek area of Brussels.
法国当局说，他们在追捕一个叫阿布达斯兰·萨拉赫(Abdeslam Salah)的26岁青年，称他是危险人物。警方警告公众：“任何情况下，不要单独尝试干预。”比利时官方说，这个人的一个兄弟易卜拉欣在三个小时的屠杀中丧命，另一个周六在布鲁塞尔被捕。
The carefully coordinated attacks on Friday night, which killed at least 129 people and are believed to be the work of the Islamic State, increasingly appear to have involved extensive planning by a network of men with sophisticated weapons who plotted the attack from outside the country.
周五晚上的袭击经过了谨慎协调，造成至少129人死亡。据信出自伊斯兰国(Islamic State)之手的袭击，越来越像是经过了一群拥有精密武器的男子的大量谋划。这些人在法国境外暗中策划了此番袭击。
The French interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, after meeting in Paris with his Belgian counterpart, Jan Jambon, said the attackers had “prepared abroad and had mobilized a team of participants located on Belgian territory, and who may have benefited — the investigation will tell us more — from complicity in France.”
在巴黎会见比利时内政部长让·让邦(Jan Jambon)后，法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)表示，袭击者“在国外进行了准备工作，并组织了一队身在比利时境内的参与者，调查将进一步告诉我们，在法国，谁可能会从与其串谋中获益”。
French officials initially said eight attackers died Friday, but on Saturday night said that only seven were dead — six by detonating suicide bombs and one in a shootout with the police. On Sunday, intelligence officials said they were looking for an eighth man believed to have been involved in the attacks, and hours later, the police released Mr. Salah’s name and photo.
法国官员最初表示周五死了八名袭击者，但周六晚上又称只死了七名袭击者，其中六人是因为引爆了自杀式炸弹，另外一人则死于与警方的枪战。周日，情报官员称正在寻找据信参与了袭击的第八个人。几个小时后，警方公布了萨拉赫的名字和照片。
The Salah brothers lived in Molenbeek, an impoverished section of Brussels that is mostly populated by immigrants from the Arab world and that has been linked to violence. “We don’t have control of the situation in Molenbeek at present,” Mr. Jambon told VRT, a television channel.
萨拉赫兄弟生活在布鲁塞尔的莫伦贝克地区。那里颇为贫穷，住的主要是来自阿拉伯世界的移民。该地区被和暴力联系在了一起。“我们目前没有控制住莫伦贝克的形势，”让邦对VRT电视台说。
Amedy Coulibaly, who was involved in the deadly assault on a Jewish supermarket in January, is believed to have bought weapons in Molenbeek, as is Mehdi Nemmouche, a Frenchman who targeted the Jewish Museum of Belgium in 2014, killing four people. Ayoub El Khazzani, a Moroccan who was thwarted in his attempt to attack passengers on a high-speed train traveling to Paris from Amsterdam, is also thought to have lived there for a while.
参与了今年1月对一家犹太超市的致命袭击的艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)，以及2014年把比利时的犹太博物馆作为攻击目标，导致四人死亡的法国人麦赫迪·奈穆什(Mehdi Nemmouche)，据信都是在莫伦贝克买到武器的。企图在从巴黎到阿姆斯特丹的一列高铁上袭击乘客，但最终未能成功的摩洛哥人阿尤布·卡扎尼(Ayoub El Khazzani)也被认为在莫伦贝克生活了一段时间。
“I notice that each time there is a link with Molenbeek,” Prime Minister Charles Michel of Belgium said on Sunday. “This is a gigantic problem.”
“我注意到，每一次都和莫伦贝克有牵连，”比利时首相夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)周日说。“这是个很大的问题。”
PARIS — The investigation into the Paris terrorist attacks unfurled across Europe on Sunday as French authorities sought a possible eighth assailant who might have fled after the three terrifying hours on Friday night in which at least 129 people were killed.
巴黎——对巴黎恐怖袭击的调查周日扩大到欧洲，法国当局正在寻找第八名可能的袭击者，该人也许在上周五夜晚参与制造了导致至少129人死亡的可怕三小时袭击后逃走。
In the eastern Paris suburb of Montreuil, the authorities found three Kalashnikov rifles — the kind used in the attacks — in an abandoned black Seat Leon that was used as a getaway car for the shooters at restaurants in central Paris.
在巴黎东部的蒙特勒伊郊区，当局在一辆被弃的黑色西雅特Leon车内，发现了三只袭击者使用的那种卡拉什尼科夫步枪，该车是袭击巴黎市中心餐馆的射手逃跑用的车。
A French official who was briefed on the investigation but was not authorized to speak publicly said the authorities were looking for someone from the Paris region who might have participated in the attacks. The authorities had initially said there were eight attackers, but on Saturday night said that only seven attackers had died — six by blowing themselves up and one in a shootout with the police.
知道调查情况、但未被授权公开发表评论的一位法国官员说，当局正在寻找一名来自巴黎地区的人，该人可能参加了袭击。当局最初曾表示有八名袭击者，但在周六晚间说，只有七名袭击者已死亡，其中有六名是自爆身亡，另一名在与警方交火时被打死。
Investigators were hunting for more information on one attacker, Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, 29, a French citizen who had been living in Chartres, 60 miles southwest of Paris, and who died at the Bataclan concert hall on Friday night.
调查人员正在搜寻有关其中一名袭击者的信息，该人是29岁的法国公民伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·穆斯塔法伊(Ismaël Omar Mostefaï)，他曾住在巴黎西南60英里的沙特尔市，上周五晚死于巴塔克兰(Bataclan)音乐厅。
French officials were also coordinating closely with the authorities in Belgium, who made a series of arrests on Saturday. The Belgian authorities have detained seven men, one of whom one was linked to a rented Volkswagen Polo that the three terrorists who killed 89 people at the Bataclan concert hall had used. On Sunday the authorities said that two of the dead attackers had lived in the Brussels area.
法国官员也在与比利时当局密切协调，比利时当局已于周六进行了一系列的逮捕行动，拘留了七名男子，其中一人与一辆租来的大众Polo车有关，袭击巴塔克兰音乐厅、导致89人死亡的三名恐怖分子用的就是那辆车。当局在周日表示，两名现已身亡的袭击者曾一直住在布鲁塞尔地区。
As President Obama and other leaders of the Group of 20 nations gathered for a scheduled summit meeting in Antalya, Turkey, on the doorstep of the Syrian crisis, France’s president, François Hollande, stayed behind in Paris, his nation in mourning. A memorial Mass was scheduled for the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, and a state of emergency remained in place.
奥巴马总统和来自20国集团的其他领导人正聚集在土耳其的安塔利亚，举行原定的首脑会议，土耳其位于叙利亚危机的大门口。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)没有赴会，而是留在了巴黎。他的国家正处在哀悼之中，巴黎圣母院(Cathedral of Notre-Dame)将举行悼念弥撒，法国的紧急状态仍未解除。
Reports from Serbia on Sunday said the authorities there had identified the holder of a Syrian passport found near one of the attackers in Paris. Responding to requests from French officials, Greece and Serbia confirmed that the holder of the passport had passed through their countries last month along with tens of thousands of migrants fleeing Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.
周日来自塞尔维亚的报道称，当局已确定了在一名巴黎攻击者尸体附近找到的叙利亚护照的持有人的身份。在回答法国官员的询问时，希腊和塞尔维亚确认，该护照的持有者曾在上个月与数万名逃离叙利亚、伊拉克和阿富汗的难民一起，从他们的国家经过。
The Serbian newspaper Blic published a photograph of a passport page that identified its holder as Ahmad al-Mohammad, 25, a native of Idlib, Syria. Serbian officials said he had been registered at the town of Presevo, on the border with Macedonia, on Oct. 7 as part of the migrant flow. Greek officials have confirmed that the same man passed through the island of Leros on Oct. 3.
塞尔维亚报纸《BLIC》公布了一张护照页的照片，确认护照持有者为25岁的艾哈迈德·穆罕默德(Ahmad al-Mohammad)，他出生于叙利亚的伊德利卜。塞尔维亚官员说，该人于10月7日在塞尔维亚与马其顿接壤的普雷舍沃镇作为难民流的一部分进行了登记。希腊官员也已经证实，同一男子曾在10月3日从莱罗斯岛经过。
It was not clear, however, if the passport was authentic; there is an active black market for forged Syrian passports.
但目前尚不清楚该护照是否是真的。伪造叙利亚护照的黑市很活跃。
Fundamental questions remained: how the terrorists, who acted in three synchronized teams, managed to pull off the deadliest terrorist attack in Western Europe since 2004, and whether they receiveddirection from Islamic State leaders in Iraq and Syria, who until now had never taken responsibility for such a large-scale attack in the West.
最基本的问题仍然存在：这些以三个同步团队行动的恐怖分子，如何成功地制造了西欧自2004年以来最致命的恐怖袭击？他们是否得到来自伊拉克和叙利亚的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)领导人的指示？此前，伊斯兰国领导人从来没有对在西方制造的如此大规模袭击承担过责任。
But the carefully coordinated attacks now appear increasingly likely to have drawn from people from several nations and to have involved extensive planning as well as sophisticated weapons.
但是，这次精心协调的袭击，现在看来越来越有可能得到来自几个国家的人参与，并且涉及周密的计划和先进的武器。
Mr. Mostefaï was publicly identified in a Facebook post by the mayor of Chartres, Jean-Pierre Gorges. Mr. Mostefaï was one of three hostage-takers at the Bataclan, the concert hall where 89 people attending a rock performance died, and who was identified based on a print from his severed finger.
穆斯塔法伊是沙特尔市市长让 - 皮埃尔·戈尔格(Jean-Pierre Gorges)在Facebook上发帖公开确认的。穆斯塔法伊是在巴塔克兰音乐厅扣留人质的三人之一，在该音乐厅听摇滚演出的人中有89人死亡。穆斯塔法伊的身份是用其一只断指的指纹确定的。
Mr. Mostefaï was born in the town of Courcouronnes and grew up around Chartres, where he lived until 2012. According to the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, he was arrested in connection with a series of low-level crimes from 2004 to 2010 and had been under surveillance since 2010, having been listed in a French security services database of people who have fallen under the influence of extremist Islamist beliefs. Six of his relatives have been detained for questioning; on Sunday, other relatives told French television that he had been estranged from them after a falling-out. 
穆斯塔法伊出生于小镇库尔库罗纳(Courcouronnes)，在沙特尔市长大，并在那里一直住到2012年。据巴黎检察官弗朗索瓦·莫林斯(François Molins)说，穆斯塔法伊曾因2004至2010年间的一系列低级犯罪被逮捕，并自2010年以来一直处于监视之下，因为他上了法国安全机构数据库的一个名单，该名单上的都是受到极端伊斯兰信仰影响的人。他的六名亲戚已被拘留接受询问；周日，他的其他亲戚对法国电视台说，穆斯塔法伊和他们闹翻之后，一直疏远他们。
In his Facebook post, Mayor Gorges of Chartres expressed despair and frustration. “How many deaths will occur before our political leaders understand and take action?” he asked, describing the “emotion, incomprehension and anger” he felt at the deaths.
沙特尔市市长戈尔格在自己Facebook的帖子中表示绝望和懊丧。他问道，“还要死多少人才会让我们的政治领导人认识到问题的严重性，开始采取行动？”他还说，他对这些死亡感到“情绪激动、不解及愤怒”。
Mayor Gorges called for strong action, without asking questions first. “Our leaders don’t need to prove they are legitimate: we have elected them so they take responsibility of the executive power of the republic,” he wrote on Facebook. “Their duty is to act effectively, and ultimately we don’t need to know how.”
戈尔格呼吁采取强有力的行动，而不是先问问题。“我们的领导人不需要证明自己的合法性：我们选举他们是让他们承担共和国的行政权力职责，”他在Facebook上写道。“他们的职责就是要采取有效的行动，而我们最终并不需要知道他们如何作出决定。”
Mr. Mostefaï previously lived in a housing development just outside Chartres. “He lived here with his parents,” said a neighbor, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “It was a normal family, just like everybody else.””
穆斯塔法伊曾住在沙特尔市外的一个住宅开发区。“他和父母一起住在这里，”一位邻居说，该人不愿透露姓名。“他家挺正常的，像其家庭一样。”
Mr. Mostefaï was the middle of five children born to an Algerian father and a Portuguese mother, and he worked in a bakery. “He played with my children,” the neighbor said. “He never spoke about religion. He was normal. He had a joie de vivre. He laughed a lot.”
穆斯塔法伊的父亲是阿尔及利亚裔、母亲是葡萄牙裔，他在五个孩子中排行第三，曾在一家面包店工作。那位邻居说，“他曾和我的孩子一起玩耍。他从来都不谈宗教。他很正常。他喜欢生活的乐趣，常常大笑。”
But then Mr. Mostefaï changed. “It was in 2010, that’s when he started to become radicalized,” the neighbor said. “We don’t understand what happened.”
但是后来，穆斯塔法伊变了。“那是在2010年，他开始变得激进，”那位邻居说。“我们不知道发生了什么。”