PARIS — President Obama told world leaders who gathered northeast of Paris on Monday for a climate conference that the United States is at least partly to blame for the life-threatening damage that environmental change has wrought, and he urged world leaders to join him in fixing the problem.
巴黎——美国总统奥巴马周一向聚集在巴黎东北郊参加全球气候大会的各国领导人表示，美国对气候变化引起的危及生命的损害至少负有部分责任，他敦促各国领导人同他一起努力解决这个问题。
“I’ve come here personally, as the leader of the world’s largest economy and the second-largest emitter,” Mr. Obama said, “to say that the United States of America not only recognizes our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility to do something about it.”
奥巴马说，“作为世界最大经济体和第二大温室气体排放国的领导人，我本人来这里要说的是，美国不仅认识到我们在制造这个问题上所起的作用，而且我们欣然接受我们为解决这个问题需要承担的责任。”
In a speech interrupted by repeated beeps warning that he had exceeded his time limit, Mr. Obama said in Le Bourget that the climate conference represented an important turning point in world history because the leaders attending the meeting now recognize the urgency of the problem. “No nation — large or small, wealthy or poor — is immune,” he said.
奥巴马在布尔歇的演讲屡次被嘟嘟声打断，提示他已超时。在演讲中他表示，这个气候会议是世界史上的一个重要转折点，因为出席此次会议的领导人现已意识到气候问题的紧迫性。他说：“没有任何一个国家——无论是大国、还是小国，富国、还是穷国——能免受影响。”
The greatest threat to reaching a binding climate accord may be a loose coalition of developing nations, led by India, who argue that they should not be asked to limit their economic growth as a way of fixing a problem that was largely created by the others, and Mr. Obama conceded that point.
对达成具有约束力的气候协议的最大威胁可能是一个以印度为首的发展中国家松散联盟，这些国家认为，他们不应该为解决这个在很大程度上是其他国家造成的问题而被要求限制他们的经济增长，奥巴马承认了这一点。
“We know the truth that many nations have contributed little to climate change but will be the first to feel its most destructive effects,” he said.
他说，“许多国家对气候变化没有起多大的作用，但气候变化最具破坏力的影响将首先殃及它们，我们知道这个事实。”
He promised money to help the poorest nations transition to economies that depend less on burning fossil fuels, but he said a delay was not acceptable.
奥巴马承诺提供资金，以帮助最贫穷的国家过渡到对化石燃料不再那么依赖的经济体，但他表示，推迟行动是不可接受的。
“For I believe, in the words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., that there is such a thing as being too late,” Mr. Obama said. “And when it comes to climate change, that hour is almost upon us.”
“因为我相信，用马丁·路德·金的话来说，有为时过晚的事情，”奥巴马说。“就气候变化而言，这个时刻近在眼前。” 
Mr. Obama also repeated an argument, lampooned by some Republicans, that the climate conference was a fitting response to the terrorist attacks that cost the lives of 130 people in and around Paris on Nov. 13.
奥巴马还重提了一个说法，既气候大会是对11月13日在巴黎及附近地区发生的、造成130人死亡的恐怖袭击的恰当回应。一些共和党人嘲讽这种说法。
“What greater rejection of those who would tear down our world than marshaling our best efforts to save it,” he said.
奥巴马说，“对那些想要撕裂这个世界的人来说，我们为挽救世界而竭尽全力是对他们再大不过的反击。”
About 150 world leaders were expected to gather at the opening of the talks in a heavily guarded convention center as a show of encouragement and support for efforts to forge a historic agreement to jointly curb greenhouse-gas emissions, in an effort to stave off the worst effects of climate change.
预计有大约150个国家的领导人将在一个戒备森严的会议中心出席谈判的开幕，以表达对达成一个共同遏制温室气体排放的历史性协议的鼓励和支持，这是延缓气候变化所造成的最坏影响的努力。
Mr. Obama has staked much of his legacy on ensuring success here, spending much of the past year courting the leaders of China, India and other major emitters in hopes they would finally agree to slow their rapidly rising use of coal and other carbon-intensive fuels.
奥巴马冒着失去许多政治遗产的风险，要确保这次会议的成功。在过去一年中，他花了很多时间试图得到中国、印度及其他主要排放国领导人的支持，希望他们最终会同意降低自己国家迅速增长的煤炭及其他碳密集型燃料的使用。
President François Hollande of France greeted Mr. Obama just eight hours after the two paid a surprise late-night visit to the Bataclan, the concert hall where dozens of people were killed on Nov. 13, as part of a coordinated series of attacks in and around Paris.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德对奥巴马表示欢迎，八小时前，他俩出人意料地在深夜前往巴塔克兰。在11月13日巴黎发生的协同的袭击中，有几十人在这个音乐厅丧生。
At the brief visit last night, Mr. Obama, Mr. Hollande and Anne Hidalgo, the mayor of Paris, each laid a white rose before standing in silence in front of the building for several minutes.
在昨夜的短暂凭吊中，奥巴马、奥朗德，以及巴黎市长安妮·伊达尔戈(Anne Hidalgo)分别在该建筑物前摆放了一支白玫瑰，然后站立默哀片刻。 
They stopped at the site immediately after Mr. Obama landed at Orly Airport and was driven through the quiet and largely blocked-off streets of Paris.
他们在奥巴马抵达巴黎奥利机场之后马上前往此地，所乘坐的车辆从巴黎基本上封闭的安静街道上经过。
Mr. Obama, Mr. Hollande and their staffs have spent much of the last year making meticulous plans for the climate talks, but the attacks in Paris scrambled those plans. Now, the agenda for the two leaders has been expanded, with their coordinated war against the Islamic State taking much of their attention.
奥巴马、奥朗德，以及他们的工作人员，在过去一年里花了大量时间，为气候谈判制定详细的计划。但是，巴黎的袭击事件打乱了这些计划。现在，这两位国家领导人的议事日程已有所扩大，他们共同打击伊斯兰国的努力占了他们大部分的精力。 
Mr. Hollande arrived at the climate talks at 7:46 a.m. and was greeted by Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who was accompanied by Mr. Hollande’s former partner, the current minister of ecology, Ségolène Royal.
奥朗德于早上7点46分来到气候谈判会场，迎接他到来的是外交部长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)，陪同法比尤斯的是奥朗德的前伴侣、现任生态部长塞戈莱纳·罗亚尔(Ségolène Royal)。
Mr. Hollande then went inside only to emerge moments later to stand at the doorway and give a highly choreographed series of quick handshakes to the world leaders expected to attend the conclave here.
奥朗德进门后又很快走了出来，他站在门口，与前来参加巴黎会议的世界各国领导人进行了经过精心设计的一系列快速握手。
Shortly after his arrival, Mr. Obama got together with President Xi Jinping of China in a meeting of the leaders of the world’s two largest carbon-polluting countries.
奥巴马到后不久就会晤了中国国家主席习近平，中美两国是世界上最大的碳污染国。 
Citing climate change as “a huge challenge,” Mr. Xi said it was “very important for China and the United States to be firmly committed to the right direction of building a new model of major country relations,” including by “partnering with each other to help the climate conference deliver its expected targets.”
习近平称气候变化是“一个巨大的挑战”，他说，“中美两国牢牢把握构建新型大国关系的正确方向”极为重要，两国应“合力推动本届气候变化大会实现预期目标”。 
Sitting beside Mr. Xi at the end of a long table, Mr. Obama said in remarks made before a phalanx of reporters that the partnership between the two men on climate discussions had been an essential part of the lead-up to the global conference.
奥巴马与习近平一起坐在一个长桌的一端，他在记者队伍前发表讲话时说，他们两人在气候讨论上的伙伴关系，是这个全球会议召开前准备工作的重要组成部分。
“As the two largest economies in the world and the two largest carbon-emitters, we have both determined that it is our responsibility to take action,” Mr. Obama said, adding: “And so our leadership on this issue has been absolutely vital, and I appreciate President Xi’s consistent cooperation on this issue.”
“作为世界上两个最大的经济体和两个最大的碳排放国，我们已经共同决定，我们有责任采取行动，”奥巴马说，并表示：“因此，我们在这个问题上的领导能力至关重要。我非常感谢习主席在这个问题上始终如一的合作。”
Among the first leaders to arrive was Secretary General Ban Ki-moon of the United Nations, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha of Thailand and the Sultan Qaboos bin Said al-Said of Oman.
首批抵达的领导人包括联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)、泰国总理巴育·占奥差(Prayuth Chan-ocha)和阿曼苏丹卡布斯·本·赛义德·阿勒赛义德(Qaboos bin Said al-Said)。
Most of these leaders will depart Paris within days, leaving behind ministers who will negotiate an accord over the next two weeks that would for the first time commit almost every country to limiting its emissions.
大多数领导人都将在几天内离开巴黎，留下各国部长参与未来两周一项协议的谈判，以便第一次实现让几乎每一个国家都做出排放量限制的承诺
So far, at least 170 countries have put forth emissions plans.
迄今为止，至少已经有170个国家提交了排放计划。
Besides the officials from all over the world, the event is expected to get a lift from prominent business leaders and philanthropists. Some of them are using the talks to announce substantial donations to help the cause of reducing emissions, developing alternative energy sources, conservation, and aiding poor and low-lying countries expected to be most affected by climate change.
除了世界各地的官员之外，这次大会预计也将获得著名商界领袖和慈善家的支持。他们中一些人正在利用这次谈判的机会宣布捐赠大笔款项，来帮助减少排放、开发替代能源、保护资源，并为那些地势低洼、受气候变化影响最严重的贫困国家提供帮助。
The Breakthrough Energy Coalition, a group of business and philanthropy leaders led by the Microsoft founder Bill Gates who have a combined total of $350 billion in private wealth, have pledged to invest in moving clean-energy technologies from laboratories to the marketplace.
一些企业和慈善业领导者组成的突破能源联盟(Breakthrough Energy Coalition)承诺投入资金，推动清洁能源技术从实验室走向市场。该组织的领导者是比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)是微软公司创始人，个人财富总计达3500亿美元。
It is hoped that the pledge, along with one by 19 countries, including the United States, to double their investments in energy technologies to $20 billion by 2020 will help convince poor countries that they will be given significant help in transitioning to a new economic model that relies less on the use of carbon.
此外，美国等19个国家也承诺会加倍投资能源科技领域，到2020年达到200亿美元。希望这些承诺将有助于让贫困国家相信，在过渡到新经济模型、减少碳依赖的过程中，他们会获得大量帮助。
In one of many such expected announcements, the State Department pledged $248 million to help the world’s least-developed countries move toward a future that is less reliant on carbon, but there were already signs, however, that the world’s poor are not yet mollified.
预期会有大量这样的公告发布，其中之一是美国国务院(State Department)的承诺：提供2.48亿美元用于帮助世界上最不发达的国家迈向碳依赖程度较低的未来。但是已经有迹象显示，穷国的态度尚未软化。
Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India said on the opening day of the summit meeting that poor nations have the right to burn carbon to grow their economies.
印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)在峰会开幕日表示，贫困国家有权使用碳能源来发展经济。
“Justice demands that, with what little carbon we can still safely burn, developing countries are allowed to grow,” he wrote in a column published in The Financial Times. “The lifestyles of a few must not crowd out opportunities for the many still on the first steps of the development ladder.”
“我们仍然可以安全燃烧的碳不多，但发展中国家有增长的权利，这是正义的呼声，”他在《金融时报》(The Financial Times)发表的一篇专栏文章中写道。“很多人仍然处在发展阶梯第一步，绝不能因为少数人的生活方式而破坏他们的机会。”
Citing statistics showing that carbon pollution last year was equal to the year before while economic growth continued, Mr. Obama rejected arguments that cleaning up the world’s air would be too costly or lead to poorer lifestyles.
统计数字显示，去年的碳污染与前年持平，但经济增长仍在持续，奥巴马援引这些数据，反驳了清洁全球空气过于昂贵或会降低生活品质的说法。
“We have proved that strong economic growth and a safer environment no longer have to conflict with one another,” he said.
“我们已经证明，强劲的经济增长和更安全的环境不一定是冲突的，”他说。
Mr. Modi was elected last year on a platform of improving the country’s economic standing. India is in the midst of a coal rush, with plans to double the use of coal by 2019.
莫迪在去年当选总统，其纲领是改善印度的经济状况。该国目前处在煤炭使用的热潮期，计划到2019年增加一倍的煤炭使用量。
In October, Mr. Modi unveiled a climate plan highlighted by a rapid increase in the use of solar, hydropower and wind energy. India’s carbon emissions would continue to rise — tripling from 2005 levels by 2030 — but at a slower pace than usual.
今年10月份，莫迪推出了一个气候计划，亮点是太阳能、水能和风能利用的快速增长。印度的碳排放量将继续上升——到2030年达到2005年水平的三倍——但增速慢于往常。
In exchange, India was demanding free technology from other countries as well as significant financial aid. India has some incentives to cooperate with broader plans to curb emissions. Some studies suggest that more Indians could be displaced as a result of rising seas than those from any other country, cities in India are already among the world’s most polluted, and nearly a fifth of deaths in India are caused in part by air pollution.
作为交换，印度要求其他国家提供免费的技术以及大笔财政援助。有一些诱因可以促使印度参与合作，开展更广泛的排放遏制计划。一些研究表明，印度因海平面上升而迁徙的人口数量，将超过其他任何国家，而印度城市已经成为世界上污染最严重地方之一，该国近五分之一的死亡和空气污染有一定关系。
Republicans in Congress and those vying to become the next president have vowed to block or overturn much of Mr. Obama’s efforts here. The president is hoping that the international pact will have a life of its own that will outlive any future leader, although fervent opposition in the Senate means that any agreement here will not be a formal treaty, which would need approval from lawmakers.
国会的共和党人以及下一届总统之位的角逐者已经发誓，要阻止或推翻奥巴马在这方面的诸多努力。奥巴马希望这份国际协议拥有自己的生命，比将来任何一位领导者都更加长寿，但参议院发出的强烈反对声音，意味着在这里签订的任何协议都不会是正式条约，因为那需要获得国会议员的批准。