Last week, on the heels of Paris Men’s Fashion Week, the City of Light set the scene for the spring 2014 women’s couture shows. From the fashion to the haute joaillerie to off-the-runway hilarity, these are some of the season’s most memorable moments.
上周，紧随巴黎男装周，这座灯光之城为2014年春季高级定制女装发布会做好了准备。从时装、高级珠宝到秀台下的欢闹，以下是这一季最令人难忘的一些时刻。
1. SNEAKERS ON THE RUNWAY | The sporty chic footwear at Chanel and Dior gave couture a playful and thoroughly modern kick.
1. 秀台上的运动鞋：香奈尔(Chanel)和迪奥(Dior)具有运动感的时髦的鞋子给高级定制服装带来了一丝有趣的、非常现代的感觉。
2. SWEET APPEAL | Valentino lived up to its reputation for romance with this cape covered in stitched butterflies that quivered as the model walked.
2. 甜蜜的吸引：华伦天奴(Valentino)没有辜负浪漫的美誉，这件披风上绣满了蝴蝶，模特走动的时候，蝴蝶也跟着颤动。
3. CELEBRITY SIGHTINGS | At Le Meurice hotel, a perennial home-away-from-home for the fashion set, editors enjoyed a gratuitous Kanye/Kardashian sighting as the couple walked through the lobby.
3. 名人踪迹：在时装界人士一向喜爱的莫里斯酒店，编辑们无意中有幸见到了坎耶/卡戴珊(Kanye/Kardashian)，这对情侣当时正穿过酒店大堂。
4. FOODIE FARE | Discovering the tasting menu at Verjus, the low-key restaurant run by Americans in Paris, was a surprising and palate-pleasing experience. A bonus for those with a sweet tooth: two of the nine courses are desserts.
4. 美食：Verjus是美国人在巴黎开设的低调餐馆。品尝这里的大厨精选菜单是令人惊喜、愉悦味蕾的体验。爱吃甜食的人有福了：九道菜中有两道是甜品。
5. STRANGE CRAVINGS | A pregnant Elena Perminova pointed out her favorite Giambattista Valli pieces to her husband, Alexander Lebedev, as those came down the runway. There’s little doubt as to whether or not they’ll actually make it into her closet.
5. 奇怪的渴望：在詹巴迪斯塔·瓦利(Giambattista Valli)时装秀进行过程中，怀孕的埃琳娜·佩米诺娃(Elena Perminova)向丈夫亚历山大·列别捷夫(Alexander Lebedev)指出哪些服装是她最喜欢的。毫无疑问，这些衣服真的会到她的衣橱里。
6. ART AND FASHION COLLIDE | Giorgio Armani brought the party from New York to Paris with his “One Night Only” extravaganza after the show Tuesday night, treating guests to dinner and a first look at his retrospective installation at the Palais de Tokyo.
6. 艺术和时装的碰撞：在周二晚上的时装秀之后，乔治·阿玛尼(Giorgio Armani)把派对从纽约开到了巴黎，开始“仅此一夜”的狂欢，请客人们吃大餐并首次观看东京宫的回顾装置作品。
7. SEEING DOUBLE | At the end of Donatella Versace’s show, she shared a moment with Lady Gaga — her muse for the collection, who was seated front row. Side by side, with all that blonde hair and similarly kohl-lined eyes, they looked like twins.
7. 看见双胞胎：在多纳泰拉·范思哲(Donatella Versace)时装秀的尾声，她和Lady Gaga待在一起。Lady Gaga是这个系列的灵感来源，被安排坐在头排。她们肩并肩站在一起，都是金色长发、深色眼影，看起来像双胞胎。
8. DISCO DANCING | Bruno Frisoni, who was dashing in a Valentino checked suit with a cocktail in hand, showed his latest collection for Roger Vivier, inspired by a postwar Shanghai nightclub. The standout item: damask shoes with disco balls as heels.
8. 迪斯科舞：布鲁诺·弗里索尼(Bruno Frisoni)穿着华丽的华伦天奴格子西服，拿着一杯鸡尾酒，展示他为罗杰·维维亚(Roger Vivier)设计的最新系列，这个系列的灵感来源是“二战”后上海的夜总会。其中特别抢眼的是一双锦缎鞋子，它的鞋跟是迪斯科舞厅的闪光灯球。
9. PEARLY WHITES | For its new high jewelry collection, Chanel debuted strings of pearls that took years to assemble, allowing for a meticulous cultivation and matching of enough pearls for each piece.
9. 珍珠白：香奈尔新的高档珠宝系列首次推出了珍珠项链，这些项链花好几年时间才能做好，因为要小心翼翼地为每串项链培育足够多相互匹配的珍珠。
10. BACK IN ACTION | For Schiaparelli’s first runway show in 60 years, Marco Zanini captured the wit of the house and its namesake, while making the parade look totally of the moment.
10. 回归：在夏帕瑞丽(Schiaparelli)60年来的首次时装秀上，马可·萨尼尼(Marco Zanini)充分展现了这家公司和这个品牌的智慧，同时让走秀具有十足的现代感。