The French authorities, including antiterrorism squads, carried out an intense manhunt on Thursday for the two brothers suspected of staging the deadly terrorist attack on the office of the newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris a day earlier that left a dozen dead. Officials detained and questioned seven people overnight in connection with the assault.
包括反恐分队在内的法国当局周四进行了针对两名袭击嫌犯兄弟的紧张搜捕。两兄弟被怀疑于前一日发动了对巴黎《查理周报》报社的恐怖袭击，袭击致12人丧生。官员连夜拘留并问询了7名与袭击相关的人。
French news media reported that men resembling the suspects had robbed a gas station in the Aisne region, northeast of Paris, and forces swarmed the area searching for the car carrying the two men.
法国新闻媒体报道，与嫌疑犯长相相似的男子在巴黎东北部的埃纳地区抢劫了一座加油站，大批军队目前在该地搜寻载有这两名男子的汽车。
Even as the nation observed a moment of silence in remembrance of the victims of Wednesday’s assault, there were unnerving reports of a killing of a police officer in a southern suburb of Paris and accounts of attacks on mosques in other parts of France.
即使在全国为周三的袭击遇害者默哀的时刻，仍有令人不安的消息传来。一名警察在巴黎南部郊区被杀害，法国其他地区有袭击清真寺的报道。
Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France, in an interview on RTL radio on Thursday, said that the suspects were heavily armed and that the authorities’ main concern was preventing another attack. He issued a plea for witnesses to contact the police.
法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)周四在卢森堡广播电台(RTL radio)的访谈中说，嫌疑犯全副武装，政府主要关心的是防止其他袭击事件发生。他吁请目击者联系警方。
PARIS — The police organized an enormous manhunt across the Paris region on Wednesday for three suspects they said were involved in a brazen and methodical midday slaughter at a satirical newspaper that had lampooned Islam.
巴黎——周三午间，枪手闯入一家以嘲讽著称的报纸位于巴黎的办公室，肆无忌惮、有条不紊地开枪屠杀。该报此前曾讽刺伊斯兰教。案发后，警方在整个巴黎地区对三名嫌疑人展开了一场声势浩大的搜捕。
The terrorist attack by masked gunmen on the newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, left 12 people dead — including the top editor, prominent cartoonists and police officers — and was among the deadliest in postwar France. The killers escaped, traumatizing the city and sending shock waves through Europe and beyond.
此次蒙面枪手对《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的恐怖袭击造成12人死亡——死者包括该报主编、著名的漫画家，还有警官——这是战后法国发生的伤亡最惨重的袭击之一。凶手在作案后逃逸，令法国高度紧张，也震动了整个欧洲。
Officials said late Wednesday that the suspects had been identified and that two were brothers. They were identified as Said and Cherif Kouachi, 32 and 34, and Hamyd Mourad, 18. French news reports said the brothers, known to intelligence services, had been born in Paris, raising the prospect that homegrown Muslim extremists were responsible.
周三夜里，官员称已查明三名嫌疑人的身份，其中两人是兄弟。他们被确认的身份是：32岁的赛义德·库瓦奇(Said Kouachi)和34岁的谢里夫·库瓦奇(Cherif Kouachi)及18岁的哈米德·穆拉德(Hamyd Mourad)。法国媒体报道称，这对兄弟二人生于巴黎，先前已被情报部门知悉，这增大了袭击是由本土滋生的穆斯林极端分子发动的可能性。
Early Thursday, a spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor said that Mr. Mourad had walked into a police station in Charleville-Mézières, about 145 miles northeast of Paris, and surrendered.
周四早上，巴黎检察官的女发言人说，其中一名嫌疑人穆拉德走进了沙勒维尔-梅济耶尔的一个警察局，并且向警方自首。沙勒维尔-梅济耶尔位于巴黎东北方约145英里（约合233公里）处。
“He introduced himself and was put in custody,” said the spokeswoman, Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre.
这位名叫阿涅·蒂宝-勒居弗尔(Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre)的女发言人说，“他介绍了自己，随后被拘捕。”
The assault threatened to deepen the distrust of France’s large Muslim population, coming at a time when Islamic radicalism has become a central concern of security officials across Europe. Within the space of a few minutes, the assault also crystallized the culture clash between religious extremism and the West’s devotion to free expression. Spontaneous rallies expressing support for Charlie Hebdo sprung up later in the day in Paris, throughout Europe and in Union Square in New York.
袭击可能会加深对法国规模庞大的穆斯林群体的不信任。袭击发生之际，伊斯兰激进主义已经成了全欧洲安全官员的心头大患。案发之后的几分钟里，此次袭击更是将宗教极端主义和西方维护言论自由之间的文化冲突表露的一览无遗。与此同时，在巴黎、在纽约的联合广场，声援《查理周报》的集会活动在当日晚些时候迅速扩大。
Officials and witnesses said at least two gunmen carried out the attack with assault weapons and military-style precision. President François Hollande of France called it a display of extraordinary “barbarism” that was “without a doubt” an act of terrorism. He declared Thursday a national day of mourning.
官员们和目击者称，袭击使用的是自动武器，精准程度也处于罕见的军方级水平。法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)称袭击显示出了非同寻常的“野蛮”，“毫无疑问”是恐怖主义行为。他宣布周四为全国哀悼日。
He also raised the nationwide terror alert to its highest status, saying several terrorist attacks had been thwarted in recent weeks as security officials here and elsewhere in Europe have grown increasingly wary of the return of young citizens from Syria and Iraq, where they went to wage jihad.
奥朗德还将全国的恐怖预警提升到了最高水平，称最近几周，随着巴黎和欧洲其他地方的安全官员对各国去叙利亚和伊拉克进行圣战的年轻公民的归国越来越警惕，已有多起恐怖袭击被挫败。
The French authorities put some schools on lockdown for the day, and added security at houses of worship, news media offices and transportation centers, and conducted random searches on the Paris Metro.
法国政府当天封锁了部分学校，在宗教场所、新闻媒体机构和运输中心增派了安全力量，并在巴黎地铁上进行了随机搜查。
The Paris prosecutor, François Molins, said witnesses said the attackers had screamed “Allahu akbar!” or “God is great” during the attack, which the police characterized as a “slaughter.”
巴黎检察官弗朗索瓦·莫林斯(François Molins)称，目击者说凶手在袭击期间高喊“真主至大”。警方称袭击是一场“屠杀”。
Corinne Rey, a cartoonist known as Coco, who was at the newspaper office during the attack, told Le Monde that the attackers spoke fluent French and had said they were part of Al Qaeda.
笔名珂珂(Coco)的漫画家科琳娜·雷伊(Corinne Rey)袭击期间身在报社办公室，她告诉《世界报》(Le Monde)，凶手法语流利，说他们属于基地组织(Al Qaeda)。
An amateur video of the assailants’ subsequent gunfight with the police, showed the men shouting, “We have avenged the Prophet Muhammad. We have killed Charlie Hebdo!” The video, the source of which could not be verified, also showed the gunmen killing a police officer as he lay wounded on a nearby street.
一段由业余人士拍摄的视频记录了袭击者随后与警方的交火。视频中，那些男子高喊着，“我们替先知穆罕默德报了仇。我们摧毁了《查理周报》！”这段来源无法核实的视频还显示，枪手杀害了躺在附近街上的一名受伤警察。
The victims at Charlie Hebdo included some of the country’s most revered and iconoclastic cartoonists. The weekly’s editorial director,Stéphane Charbonnier, had already been received light police protection after earlier threats, the police and the prosecutor said. An officer assigned to guard the newspaper’s offices and its top editor was among the victims.
《查理周报》的遇难者包括法国的几位最受尊崇、最不屑权威的漫画家。警方和检方表示，由于早前受到威胁，该报的编辑部主任斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)已得到了警方的低级别保护。
As news of the attack spread, an outpouring of grief mixed with expressions of dismay and demonstrations of solidarity for free speech.
随着袭击消息的传开，民众既悲恸，又表现出了恐慌，同时也展现了对言论自由的支持。
By the evening, not far from the site of the attack in the east of Paris,an estimated 35,000 gathered at Place de La République — young and old, and various classes — some chanting, “Charlie! Charlie!” or holding signs reading, “I am Charlie” — the message posted on the newspaper’s website.
到了傍晚，大约3.5万名来自各阶层的男女老少聚集在巴黎东部距案发地不远的共和国广场(Place de La République)。部分人反复喊着“查理！查理！”的口号，或是拿着写有“我是查理”字样的标语——该报的网站上也写着这句话。
Spontaneous vigils of hundreds and thousands formed in other cities around France and elsewhere in Europe.
在法国和欧洲其他地方的城市，成百上千的人自发举行守夜活动。
Mr. Molin, the prosecutor, said that two men armed with AK-47 rifles and wearing black hoods, had forced their way into the weekly’s offices about 11:30 a.m., firing at people in the lobby, before making their way to the newsroom on the second floor, interrupting a news meeting and firing at the assembled journalists.
检察官莫林斯称，大约在当地时间早上11点30分，两名戴着黑色头套、手握AK-47步枪的男子闯入报社，向大厅里的人开枪，后又来到二楼的编辑部，打断了新闻会议，朝聚集在那里的记者开火。
The attackers then fled outside, where they clashed three times with the police, shooting one officer as he lay on the ground on a nearby street. They then fled in a black Citroen, and headed north on the right bank of Paris. During their escape, prosecutors said, they crashed into another car and injured its female driver, before robbing and abducting a bystander.
然后，袭击者逃到报社外面，与警方三次交火，并射杀了一名躺在附近街道上的受伤警察。之后，他们乘坐一辆黑色的雪铁龙(Citroen)汽车逃离现场，沿着巴黎右岸一直往北行驶。检方称，逃逸期间，他们撞上了另一辆车，导致该车女司机受伤，后来又抢劫并绑架了一名旁观者。
The police said the precision with which the assailants handled their weapons suggested that they had received military training. During the attack, which the police said lasted a matter of minutes, several journalists hid under their desks or went to hide on the roof, witnesses said.
警方称，袭击者操作武器的精准程度表明，他们受过军事训练。警方表示，袭击持续了数分钟。目击者称，袭击期间，几名记者躲在了桌子下面或是屋顶上。
Meziani Zina, 32, who works at the reception of an employment center across from the building, said she heard several loud shots ringing from the weekly’s headquarters.
32岁的梅齐亚妮·齐娜(Meziani Zina)在报社对面一栋大楼内的一家就业中心前台工作。她说听到了从《查理周报》总部传来的几声枪响，声音很大。
One journalist who was at the weekly during the attack and asked that her name not be used, texted a friend after the shooting: “I’m alive. There is death all around me. Yes, I am there. The jihadists spared me.”
袭击时在报社的一名记者，在事件发生后给朋友发短信说：“我还活着。身边都是死人。是的，我在现场。圣战分子饶了我一命。”这名记者要求不要透露其姓名。
Treasured by many, hated by some, and indiscriminate in its offensiveness, Charlie Hebdo has long reveled in provoking.
长期以来，《查理周报》一直在乐此不疲、不分敌我地挑衅。该报得到了很多人的喜爱，也遭到了一些人的憎恶。
In 2011, the office of the weekly was badly damaged by a firebombafter it published a spoof issue “guest edited” by the Prophet Muhammad to salute the victory of an Islamist party in Tunisian elections. It had announced plans to publish a special issue renamed “Charia Hebdo,” a play on the word in French for Shariah law.
2011年，这家杂志的办公室曾遭燃烧弹袭击，被严重损毁。此前，它出版了一期讽刺专刊来庆祝突尼斯大选中一个伊斯兰政党的胜利，并把先知穆罕默德列为了“客座编辑”。它还宣布计划出版一期名为《伊斯兰教法周刊》(Charia Hebdo)的特刊，利用法语中“伊斯兰教法”(Shariah)和“查理”的相似读音，玩了一个文字游戏。
Police said the dead included four celebrated cartoonists at the weekly, including its Mr. Charbonnier, known as Charb, Jean Cabut, Georges Wolinski and Bernard Verlhac.
警方称，遇难者中包括《查理周报》的四位知名漫画家：笔名沙博(Charb)的沙博尼耶先生；让·卡比(Jean Cabut)；乔治·沃林斯基(Georges Wolinski)；以及贝尔纳德·韦里亚克(Bernard Verlhac)。
Mr. Charbonnier stoked controversy and earned the ire of the Muslim community in 2006, when he republished satirical cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that had been published in a Danish newspaper, Jyllands-Posten. His last cartoon for Charlie Hebdo featured an armed man who appeared to be a Muslim fighter with a headline that read: “Still no attacks in France. Wait! We have until the end of January to give our best wishes.”
2006年，沙博尼耶决定在《查理周报》上转载丹麦报纸《日德兰邮报》(Jyllands-Posten)上讽刺先知穆罕默德的漫画，此举引发了争议，并激怒了穆斯林群体。沙博尼耶为《查理周报》创作的最后一幅漫画中，主角是一名全副武装的男子，似乎是一名穆斯林。漫画的标题是：“法国还没有袭击。等等！我们1月底之前都还可以许下美好愿望！”
The police said that an abandoned black Citroen with silvered wing-mirrors, used by the gunmen, was later discovered in the 19th arrondissement of Paris.
警方称，他们在巴黎19区发现了袭击者遗弃的、带有镀银后视镜的黑色雪铁龙(Citroen)汽车。
A senior United States counterterrorism official said on Wednesday that the American authorities were following the developments in Paris closely, but that they had not yet identified any individuals or groups who might be responsible for the attack.
美国一名高级反恐官员周三称，美国政府正密切关注巴黎事件的进展，但他们还没有发现任何可能对此次袭击负责的组织或个人。
Michael J. Morell, the former deputy director of the C.I.A. and now a consultant to CBS News, said it was unclear whether the attackers acted on their own or were directed by organized groups.
中情局(CIA)前副局长、CBS新闻频道(CBS News)顾问迈克尔·J·莫雷尔(Michael J. Morell)说，尚不清楚袭击者是独立行动，还是受到有组织团体的派遣。
“This is the worst terrorist attack in Europe since the attacks in London in July of 2005,” Mr. Morell said. “The motive here is absolutely clear: trying to shut down a media organization that lampooned the Prophet Muhammad. So, no doubt in my mind that this is terrorism.”
“这是2005年7月伦敦遭受袭击后，欧洲发生的最严重的恐怖袭击，”莫雷尔说。“它的动机非常明显：那就是想要关掉这家讽刺过先知穆罕默德的媒体机构。因此在我看来，这毫无疑问是恐怖主义。”
He added, “What we have to figure out here is the perpetrators and whether they were self-radicalized or whether they were individuals who fought in Syria and Iraq and came back, or whether they were actually directed by ISIS or Al Qaeda.”
他接着说，“我们必须弄清楚的是，袭击者是谁，他们采取极端行动是不是自发的，他们是否是在叙利亚和伊拉克作战之后回国的个人，是否受到了ISIS或基地组织的指派。”
Dalil Boubakeur, the rector of the Grand Mosque in Paris, one of France’s largest, expressed horror at the assault on Charlie Hebdo. “We are shocked and surprised that something like this could happen in the center of Paris. But where are we?” he was quoted as saying by Europe1, a radio broadcaster.
巴黎大清真寺教长达利勒·布巴克(Dalil Boubakeur)表达了对《查理周报》办公室遭袭的惊骇之情。“巴黎市中心竟然会发生这样的事，这让我们感到震惊和意外。但我们现在该怎么做？”欧洲第一电台(Europe 1)援引他的话报道。
“We strongly condemn these kinds of acts and we expect the authorities to take the most appropriate measures.” He added: “This is a deafening declaration of war. Times have changed, and we are now entering a new era of confrontation.”
“我们强烈谴责此类行径，我们期待当局采取最恰当的措施。”他接着说：“这是一次震耳欲聋的宣战。时代已改变，我们正在进入一个新的对抗时代。”
The attack comes as thousands of Europeans have gone to join jihadist groups in Iraq and Syria, further fueling concerns about Islamic radicalism and terrorism being imported. Those concerns have been particularly acute in France where fears have grown that militants are seeking to target French citizens in retaliation for the government’s support for the United States-led air campaign against jihadists with the Islamic State group in Syria and Iraq.
袭击发生的同时，数以千计的欧洲人已经加入伊拉克和叙利亚的圣战组织，这进一步加剧了人们对伊斯兰极端主义和恐怖主义正在进入欧洲的担忧。这种担忧在法国尤其强烈，这里的人们日益担心，武装分子正寻求把目标对准法国公民，作为对法国政府的报复，该政府支持了美国主导的针对叙利亚和伊拉克伊斯兰国圣战分子的空袭行动。
Last month, Prime Minister Manuel Valls ordered hundreds of additional military personnel onto the streets to beef up security after a series of attacks across France raised alarm about Islamic terror.
上个月，总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)要求在街上增派数百名军事人员，从而加强安保，此前，法国各地发生的一系列袭击引发了对伊斯兰恐怖主义的警惕。
In Dijon and Nantes, a total of 23 people were injured when men drove vehicles into crowds, with one of the drivers shouting an Islamic rallying cry. The authorities depicted both drivers as mentally unstable. The attacks came after violence attributed to lone-wolf attackers in London in 2013, in Canada in October and last month in Sydney, Australia.
在第戎和南特接连发生了汽车冲入人群的袭击事件，其中有一名司机高喊着伊斯兰的口号，袭击共导致23人受伤。政府称这两名司机精神不稳定。在此之前，2013年的伦敦袭击事件、去年10月的加拿大袭击事件，以及上个月发生在澳大利亚悉尼的袭击事件，都已被归咎于独狼式袭击。
In September, fighters in Algeria aligned with the Islamic State beheaded Hervé Gourdel, a 55-year-old mountaineering guide from Nice, and released a video documenting the brutal killing. Mr. Gourdel was kidnapped after the Islamic State called on its supporters to target Europeans to avenge the airstrikes in Iraq and Syria.
9月，效忠于伊斯兰国的阿尔及利亚武装分子将55岁的尼斯登山导游埃尔韦·古德尔(Hervé Gourdel)斩首，并发布了记录这次残忍杀戮的视频。古德尔被绑架之前，伊斯兰国曾呼吁支持者以欧洲人为目标，对伊拉克和叙利亚遭受的空袭实施报复。
President Obama issued a statement condemning the attack. “Time and again, the French people have stood up for the universal values that generations of our people have defended,” he said. “France, and the great city of Paris where this outrageous attack took place, offer the world a timeless example that will endure well beyond the hateful vision of these killers. We are in touch with French officials, and I have directed my administration to provide any assistance needed to help bring these terrorists to justice.”
奥巴马总统发布了一则声明来谴责这次的袭击事件。“法国人民一次又一次地支持我们世世代代捍卫的普世价值，”他说。“法国，以及发生这次暴行的伟大城市巴黎，给世界树立了一个永恒的典范，它的生命力远远超过了这些刽子手充满仇恨的认知。我们正在与法国官员接触，我也已经要求我的政府提供任何必要的援助，把这些恐怖分子绳之以法。”