WASHINGTON — One of the two brothers suspected of killing 12 people at a satirical newspaper in Paris traveled to Yemen in 2011 and received terrorist training from Al Qaeda’s affiliate there before returning to France, a senior American official said on Thursday.
华盛顿——美国的一名高层官员在周四表示，涉嫌在巴黎一家讽刺报纸杀害12人的两兄弟中，有一人曾于2011年前往也门，并在返回法国前接受了基地组织(Al Qaeda)也门分支的恐怖分子训练。
The suspect, Saïd Kouachi, 34, spent “a few months” training in small arms combat, marksmanship and other skills that appeared to be on display in videos of the military-style attack on Wednesday carried out by at least two gunmen on the offices of the Charlie Hebdo newspaper.
现年34岁的嫌疑人赛义德·库瓦奇(Said Kouachi)花了“几个月的时间”接受轻武器作战、射击等等技能的培训，这些技能在有关周三攻击事件的视频中有所展现。周三，《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)办公室遭到至少两名持枪人员的军事化攻击。
Mr. Kouachi’s training came at a time when many other young Muslim men in the West were inspired by Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born cleric who by 2011 had become a senior operational figure for the terrorist group, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
在库瓦奇接受训练的同时，西方国家的很多年轻穆斯林男子正受到生于美国的阿訇安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)的鼓舞。到2011年，奥拉基已经成为恐怖组织基地组织阿拉伯半岛分支的高级行动领导。
A United States intelligence official said on Thursday that both brothers were in the United States database of known or suspected terrorists, and were on an American no-fly list for years.
美国情报官员在周四表示，库瓦奇兄弟出现在美国的已知或有嫌疑的恐怖分子数据库中，多年前就被列入美国禁飞名单。
The Kouachi brothers have been under scrutiny for years by French and American officials. Saïd Kouachi’s younger brother, Chérif, first came to the attention of the French authorities as a possible terrorist a decade ago, when he was in his early 20s. He was detained in 2005 as he prepared to leave for Syria, the first leg of a trip he hoped would take him to Iraq.
多年来，法国和美国官员一直注意着库瓦奇兄弟。十年前，当赛义德·库瓦奇的弟弟谢里夫刚20岁出头时，他因为可能是恐怖分子而首次引起了法国当局的注意。2005年，在准备前往叙利亚时，谢里夫被拘留。去叙利亚只是第一步，他最终希望去的是伊拉克。
American intelligence and counterterrorism officials on Thursday were still trying to determine whether the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen had explicitly ordered the attack, although there was no indication so far that the brothers had received direct orders from the group or were part of a larger cell in France.
周四，美国情报和反恐官员依然试图确定，基地组织在也门的分支是否有明确下令发起这起攻击，不过迄今为止，尚没有迹象表明兄弟二人收到了该组织的直接命令，或是参加了法国某个规模更大的组织。