Inside an abandoned seven-floor, 70-room house near the Arc de Triomphe, more than 650 revelers in floor-length gowns, curly white wigs and feathered masks gathered on a Friday night in January.
在今年1月一个周五的夜晚，650多名狂欢者身穿及地长袍、头戴卷曲的白色假发、面戴羽毛面具，聚集在凯旋门附近一座有70个房间的7层废弃楼房里。
A nearly nude woman with a giant bouffant and flower-adorned underwear performed a sultry dance with pink wings, while a contortionist spouted French obscenities. At the bottom of a sweeping grand staircase, a four-piece band performed while couples waltzed.
一个几乎全裸的女人留着巨大的蓬松发型，穿着花朵装饰的内衣，戴着粉色翅膀，表演淫荡的舞蹈，旁边还有个人在用法语滔滔不绝地说着淫词艳语。在一个大幅弯曲的楼梯下面，一个四人乐队在演奏，情侣们在跳华尔兹舞。
For five years, a renegade group known as We Are the Oracle has been hosting such semi-secret parties in elusive sites throughout Paris, including the catacombs, empty railway tracks and abandoned chateaus. And not always legally.
5年来，一个名叫“我们是圣贤”(We Are the Oracle)的反抗传统的团体在巴黎各处神出鬼没地举办这种半秘密的派对，包括在地下墓地、废弃的铁道和城堡里，而且并不总是合法。
What began as a word-of-mouth soirée among the city’s elite influencers has evolved into seasonal theme parties that combine the mystique of “Eyes Wide Shut” with the energy of all-night raves and the theatrics of “Sleep No More.”
一开始，它只是巴黎具有影响力的精英们口头相传的晚会，后来发展成每季一次的主题派对，它把《大开眼界》(Eyes Wide Shut)的神秘与《无眠》(Sleep No More)整晚狂欢的活力和舞台效果结合在一起。
When the invitation for the masquerade ball was unveiled last October, through a video that promised an epic party called “Venise Sous Paris” (or “Venice Under Paris”), it created intense intrigue. “OK, get your plane ticket!” proclaimed Marina Smith of Nova Scotia, who shared the invitation on Facebook.
去年10月，这场化装舞会的邀请一公布，就引起人们强烈的兴趣。邀请是通过一个视频发布的，承诺将举办一场名为“巴黎地下的威尼斯”(Venise Sous Paris)的宏大派对。加拿大新斯科舍省的玛丽娜·史密斯(Marina Smith)在Facebook上分享这个邀请时欢呼道：“好的，去买机票吧！”
Over two weekends in January, 2,800 attendees from as far away as Australia and the United States paid 61.50 euros (around $70) to dress like Venetian noblesse, sip Champagne and dance like Casanova until 2 a.m.
在1月的两个周末，从世界各地（最远的来自澳大利亚和美国）赶来的2800名参与者每人支付61.50欧元（约合70美元），打扮成威尼斯贵族，喝着香槟，像卡萨诺瓦(Casanova)那样放荡地跳舞，直到凌晨2点。
The next event is called “The Soviet Factory,” and it is scheduled to take place April 29 and 30 at a location that will be revealed a day before the party. Some 2,000 guests are expected to adhere to a Communist-chic dress code.
下一场活动名叫“苏联工厂”(The Soviet Factory)，计划于4月29日至30日举行，地点会在派对前一天公布。预计会有约2000名宾客光临，身穿共产主义特色服装。
The parties were dreamed up by Foulques Jubert, 29, a former business student who spent a year attending 24 festivals in 13 countries (including Burning Man in Nevada and Tomorrowland in Belgium) to learn how to bring similar spectacles to Paris.
这些派对是29岁的富尔克·朱贝尔(Foulques Jubert)构思出来的。他大学时学的是商科，曾花费1年时间在13个国家参加了24个节庆活动（包括内华达州的火人节[Burning Man]和比利时明日世界[Tomorrowland]音乐节），来学习如何在巴黎呈现类似的盛会。
In 2011, he started a production agency, We Are the Oracle (a.k.a. WATO), choosing the name for the mystique it connotes. An early event took place in the catacombs of Paris, where Mr. Jubert and his team held a 40-person candlelit dinner party 100 feet below the Place d’Italie in the 13th Arrondissement.
2011年，他创立了一个制作机构，名叫“我们是圣贤”(WATO)，选这个名字是因为它所暗含的神秘感。最早的一次活动在巴黎的地下墓地举办。朱贝尔和他的团队在第13区意大利广场(Place d’Italie)地下100英尺举办了一个烛光晚宴派对，有40人参加。
“We had to walk for 30 minutes with chairs on our backs,” Mr. Jubert said. “It was really commando, and we weren’t discreet at all. It was stupid, but it was our first.” (Stupid, because the police came and everyone had to hide, which, of course, contributed to the party’s hype.)
“我必须背着椅子走30分钟，”朱贝尔说，“真的是搞突击，我们一点也不谨慎。它很蠢，但那是我们的第一次（愚蠢是因为警察来了，每个人都得藏起来，那当然也让派对更刺激）。”
Turns out, Parisians were looking for something beyond sipping Bordeaux on a terrace or waiting in line at the nightclub Silencio. “You’re diving into another world or another universe,” said Vincent de la Morandière, 40, a lawyer in Paris who has attended four of these events. “It’s a smart way to party. A pub or a disco is very boring, and so is going to a show where you stay in your seat.”
结果证明，巴黎人想要的不只是在露台上喝波尔多葡萄酒，或者在Silencio夜总会排队等候。“你跳入另一个世界或另一个宇宙，”40岁的文森特·德拉莫朗迪埃(Vincent de la Morandière)说。他是巴黎的一名律师，已经参加了4次这样的活动。“这是开派对的一个好办法。去酒吧或者去跳迪斯科都太无聊了；去看表演也是，你只能坐在自己的座位上。”
At We Are the Oracle parties, he added, “You are the show.”
他接着说，在“我们是圣贤”的派对上，“你就是表演者”。
The next party had a Cosa Nostra theme and took place at an abandoned farmhouse in the 11th Arrondissement. This time, town hall came knocking, but instead of shutting it down, town officials were eager to collaborate, offering Mr. Jubert after-hours access to city museums, swimming pools and other locations.
第二次派对的主题是“我们的事业”（Cosa Nostra，美国黑手党的一个秘密犯罪组织——译注），在第11区一个废弃的农场举行。这一次他们招来了市政府官员，不过他们没有把派对关掉，而是积极协助，给朱贝尔推荐了一些深夜可去的地方，比如城市博物馆和游泳池等。
Our goal “is to have an interesting offer in night life, not just restaurants and clubs, but atypical night life,” said Frédéric Hocquart, a special counselor for the Town Hall of Paris. “It will make Paris more attractive to Parisians, but also abroad. This is why we support WATO.”
巴黎市政厅的特别顾问弗雷德里克·奥卡尔(Frédéric Hocquart)说，我们的目标是“提供有趣的夜生活，不仅包括餐厅和俱乐部，还包括一些独特的活动。它会让巴黎更具吸引力，不只是对巴黎人，而且包括对外国人。所以我们支持WATO”。
Subsequent parties became less covert but evolved into larger affairs with dress codes, themes and entertainment. In 2014, Mr. Jubert turned the Espace Glisse skate park in the 18th Arrondissement into a desert oasis with 60 tons of sand. An orchestra played the theme from “Lawrence of Arabia” as 3,500 guests smoked hookahs, rode camels and received henna tattoos.
后来的派对不再那么隐秘，而是发展成具有着装要求、主题和娱乐的大型活动。2014年，朱贝尔用60吨沙子把第18区的Espace Glisse溜冰公园变成了沙漠绿洲。管弦乐队演奏着《阿拉伯的劳伦斯》(Lawrence of Arabia)的主题曲，3500名嘉宾吸着水烟袋，骑着骆驼，进行指甲花纹身。
As the parties’ reputation grew, so did the pressure to raise the level of extravagance. “Venise Sous Paris,” for example, took a year to plan and cost more than a million euros to produce.
随着派对名声渐长，提高奢华程度的压力也变大。比如，“巴黎地下的威尼斯”花了一年时间筹划，投资超过100万欧元。
That party was supposed to take place at the Richard Lenoir vaults, the water-filled tunnels under the Place de la Bastille between the fourth and 12th Arrondissements. But three weeks after it was announced last October, the city was struck by terrorism. The police thought that the canals were too dangerous, so Mr. Jubert looked for a new setting.
那个派对原计划在第4区和第12区之间的巴士底广场(Place de la Bastille)下面的查德·勒努瓦地窖(Richard Lenoir vaults)举行，那里布满水道。但是去年10月，活动公布3周后，巴黎遭到恐怖主义袭击。警察认为那些地道太危险，所以朱贝尔只好另寻地点。
“Canceling was an awful option,” Mr. Jubert said. “We needed a venue that was attractive, exclusive and never used. Somewhere we could maintain our theatrical plans.”
“取消活动是个糟糕的选择，”朱贝尔说，“我们需要一个有吸引力、独一无二、从未用过的场所，一个仍能执行我们戏剧性计划的地方。”
After an extended search, his group settled on a house that once belonged to Calouste Gulbenkian, a British businessman who died in 1955. While guests were no longer “under Paris,” the concept was still a Venetian masquerade.
在广泛调查之后，他的团队选定了曾属于卡卢斯特·古尔本基安(Calouste Gulbenkian)的一所房子。古尔本基安是一名英国商人，1955年去世。虽然客人们不是在“巴黎地下”，但主题仍是威尼斯化装舞会。
“I’d never been to Paris, and this seemed like the perfect excuse to come out for it,” said Phil Warren, 32, a research engineer who traveled from California and wore a black cape and mask with LED lights for that party. “I’ll pretty much do anything if it’s weird enough.”
“之前我从没去过巴黎，这像是去巴黎的完美理由，”32岁的菲尔·沃伦(Phil Warren)说。沃伦是一名研究工程师，他从加利福尼亚州飞来，穿着黑色披风，带着有LED灯的面具。“一件事只要够怪异，我就很可能会去做。”