PARIS — “Dames pipi,” as the ladies who clean public toilets here are known, have been a fixture of Parisian neighborhoods, alongside the proprietors of corner cafes, since the days when many buildings lacked indoor plumbing.
巴黎——“嘘嘘女士”(dames pipi) 是巴黎人对公厕清洁员的称呼。从那个许多建筑物还没有室内排污管线的年代开始，她们就是巴黎生活圈里不可或缺的一分子，就如同街角咖啡店的老板一般。
Such was their prominence that, as the French essayist Claude Lussac notes, one dame pipi became the subject of a brief character sketch in Marcel Proust’s sprawling novel “Remembrance of Things Past.” Mr. Lussac recalled Proust’s character as comporting herself in her toilet like “a marquise in her salon, opening the little stalls and speaking with the customers, who shared confidences with her.”
她们的声名如此卓著，根据法国散文家克劳德·吕萨克(Claude Lussac)所述，就连马塞尔·普鲁斯特(Marcel Proust)都曾在他长篇小说《追忆似水年华》中，简练地描写过一位“嘘嘘女士”。吕萨克回忆道，普鲁斯特笔下这个角色在她所负责的公厕里，一举一动“仿佛一位侯爵夫人在她的客厅里。她打开小隔间与上门的客人交谈，而客人们放心地与她分享秘密。”
But as the number of “chalets de nécessité,” as the public toilets were quaintly called, have dwindled, so, too, has the presence of the ladies, who now teeter on the verge of extinction.
然而，随着这些曾被称作“便屋”(chalets de nécessité)的公厕迅速减少，这些女士的身影可能也会消失。
Today, the dames pipi number barely a dozen, mostly older women who are first-generation immigrants from places like Guinea, Togo and Vietnam. And, unless they win a lawsuit to give them back their jobs, they will be a casualty of the city’s new effort to turn the remaining public bathrooms into moneymaking ventures.
现存的“嘘嘘女士”勉强有十几位，他们大多是上了年纪的女性，都是来自几内亚、多哥、越南等地的第一代移民。除非能打赢争取工作权的官司，不然她们将成为巴黎市政府一项改造的牺牲者。市政府试图将现存的公厕改成赚钱的场所。
“This is the end of the story, the end of an era,” said Mr. Lussac, who has done extensive research and written on the history of public bathrooms.
“这是一则故事的尾声，一个时代的结束，”吕萨克说。他曾经深入调查并撰文讲述巴黎公共厕所的历史。
This summer, the city government contracted with the French subsidiary of an upscale toilet company based in the Netherlands with the catchy name 2theloo. The latter operates spiffy, clean pay toilets at a number of places around Europe including Covent Garden in London. Its French subsidiary, named Sarivo, goes one step further and purports to offer “luxury toilets” that also sell items like toilet paper printed with images of the Eiffel Tower.
今年夏天，巴黎市政府和名号响亮的荷兰高档卫浴商“2theloo”位于法国的子公司签订了一份合同。2theloo在欧洲各地经营着光鲜又干净的付费厕所，其中包括在伦敦的科文特花园(Covent Garden)。该公司在法国的子公司Sarivo青出于蓝，宣称要提供“奢华的如厕空间”，在其中贩售印有艾菲尔铁塔图样的卫生纸等产品。
The ladies who once tended the free public toilets have not been given jobs in the revamped lavatories, but they argue that cleaning toilets is the same job whether done in fancy new surroundings or older, more decrepit ones. A decision by the French labor courts is expected on Tuesday.
然而，那些曾负责打理免费公厕的女士，在这些崭新的洗手间里并没有得到工作岗位，尽管她们指出，清扫厕所就是清扫厕所，不论是在新颖花俏还是陈旧不堪的厕所里，都没有什么差别。周二，法国劳工法庭会对此案作出裁决。
“The work was hard, but it was my job” said Pham Tai Doa, 65, who has worked as a dame pipi for 15 of the 25 years since she arrived in France from Vietnam. “I don’t want to have to ask for public handouts.”
“虽然很辛苦，但这是我的工作，”65岁的范彩朵(Pham Tai Doa)说。她在从越南来到法国后的25年里，当了15年的“嘘嘘女士”。她说：“我不想被迫去领公家的救济金。”
With her comrades, Ms. Doa now spends part of every day at a protest that more often resembles a wake, a few feet from the now-shuttered toilet she once cleaned at the foot of the Sacré-Coeur Basilica that sits atop the Montmartre neighborhood.
如今范彩朵与她的同伴，每天都要在她曾打扫过的公厕旁举行抗议，只是她们的抗议常常更像是守灵。那个如今已经关闭的公厕位于俯瞰蒙马特的圣心堂(Sacré-Coeur Basilica)脚下。
Several of the women are the sole supporters of their families. They have lived hand-to-mouth on their low pay and occasional tips, they said, and have little if any retirement savings.
这些“嘘嘘女士”有许多都是家里唯一的经济来源。她们表示，自己是靠微薄的收入与偶尔收到的小费勉强度日，几乎没有退休积蓄可言。
The Disneyfication of the city’s remaining public toilets represents a rather ignominious end to a long tradition of mostly free lavatories that just three decades ago numbered more than two dozen in Paris.
巴黎仅存的公厕走向消费化和娱乐化，仿佛迪士尼一样，这为这座城市提供免费如厕空间的悠久传统，画上了不光彩的句点。仅仅30年前，我们还可以在该市找到20多处这类公厕。
The mayor’s office has periodically asked users to pay, but in most eras there was no charge. However, seeing an opportunity not only to cut costs but also to make some money, the city signed its contract with Sarivo.
巴黎市政府虽曾不时要求如厕付费，但大部分时间还是免费开放的。然而为了把握机会，在减省开销之余小赚一笔，市府还是和Sarivo签了约。
According to Sarivo’s lawyer, Paul Coeffard, the ladies did not have the qualifications necessary to care for the upgraded public toilets.
据Sarivo的律师保罗·柯伊法德(Paul Coeffard)称，这些女士不具备维护这些升级后的公共厕所所需的资质。
While acknowledging that their employees must “clean after each visit,” Mr. Coeffard said, “The people who work for us are not cleaners.”
柯伊法德承认公司要求员工“每次如厕后都要清理”，但“为我们工作的人不是清洁工”。
They are rather “salespeople who must be up on the rules of French elegance and also the rules of elegance for foreign clients so that they feel welcome.”
他们其实是“销售人员，必须遵守法兰西的典雅礼仪，也遵守外国客户的典雅礼仪，让他们感到亲切”。
“These are people who must be able to exchange a few words of Arabic, for example, welcoming a sultan of Oman and a sultan of Saudi Arabia,” he explained.
“比如，这些人要能用阿拉伯语跟人交流几句，欢迎某位阿曼的苏丹，或者沙特阿拉伯的苏丹，”他解释道。
“They have to be able to sell very expensive products,” Mr. Coeffard continued, “so there’s also a commercial quality because they must be able to explain to the customers, to counsel them in their choices.”
“他们要有销售昂贵产品的能力，”柯伊法德接着说，“所以他们要具备一种商业品质，因为他们要能向顾客解释，帮助他们做选择。”
The dames pipi, however, say they believe they are being pushed out not because they lack the skill to greet the sultan of Oman, but because they are older women, unglamorous and belong to a union, several said.
而许多“嘘嘘女士”认为，她们之所以被赶走，不是因为缺乏接待阿曼的苏丹的技能，而是因为她们年纪大，不漂亮，而且有工会。
With the help of their union, Force Ouvrière, or Workers’ Force, they are suing for two months’ back pay — the time since they were notified they had been let go — and the reinstatement of their jobs.
在她们的工会“工人力量”(Force Ouvrière)的协助下，她们正在控告公司，要求补发两个月的工资——从得到解雇通知那一天算起——并恢复她们的工作。
The redone toilets — there are already at least three in operation — are more toilet boutiques than simply a place to quickly relieve oneself. The ones that have opened near the Louvre, which also sell toilet paper in neon orange and fuchsia colors, cost 1.50 euros, or about $1.70 for each use, which comes to almost $7 for a family of four.
改造后的厕所——至少有三座已经开始运营——更像是一种时尚如厕精品店，而不只是供人方便的场所。在卢浮宫附近的几座厕所还会出售荧光橙和紫红色厕纸，一次用量售价1.5欧元（约合10元人民币），一家四口上一次厕所要花掉6欧元。
Parisian public toilets extend back to the late 19th century, a time when disease and ghastly smells were rife because most buildings lacked even faintly adequate plumbing, according to a social history of French toilets by Roger-Henri Guerrand. A typical residence for Paris workers in that era might have had one toilet for 60 people, creating a stench that permeated every room in the building, according to Mr. Guerrand’s study.
巴黎公共厕所的历史可以追溯到19世纪末，罗歇-亨利·盖朗(Roger-Henri Guerrand)撰写的法国厕所社会文化史中提到，当时多数建筑缺乏最起码的管道系统，疾病和骇人的恶臭肆虐。盖朗的研究发现，在那个时代，一个巴黎工人阶层的典型住所会有60个人共用一间厕所，散发出的臭味弥漫到全楼的每一个房间。
In more recent decades, however, the number of free public toilets dwindled to the point that there were only a few left, in heavily touristed areas. Most neighborhoods today are served instead by the more prosaic, gray self-cleaning toilet booths (there are about 400 of them).
然而在最近几十年里，免费公共厕所的数量渐渐减少，现在只有在游客密集的地方才有几座。绝大多数居民区现在都已经改用无聊的灰色自动清洁厕所亭（有大约400座）。
However, the handful of toilet “chalets” that remained until this year, although indisputably in poor repair, recalled a more communal era in Paris. It was that sense of connection to place that at least some of the remaining dames pipi said they loved about their job.
然而还是有几座“便屋”留存至今，虽然明显缺乏维护保养，却能让人想起那个更具集体生活气息的巴黎。至少有几位“嘘嘘女士”曾表示，是那种交流互通的感觉让她们喜欢这份工作。
“There were the regulars, who were nice with us, who knew us,” said Gabrielle Adams, a Togolese cleaner who worked for 29 years in the Paris toilets and most recently was posted in Montmartre.
“有的是常客，对我们很友好，认识我们，”加布里耶尔·亚当斯(Gabrielle Adams)说。这位多哥裔清洁工已经在巴黎的厕所里工作了29年，最近被派到了蒙马特。
Tears came to her eyes as she recalled her years of work and how much she had loved her post at the Church of the Madeleine before those toilets were closed in 2011.
她含着泪回忆起这些年的工作，说她如何喜爱在玛德莲教堂那个点做事，那里的厕所已于2011年关闭。
“They were the most beautiful toilets of Paris and very old,” she said.
“那可是巴黎最漂亮的厕所，有些年头了，”她说。
“The mosaics, Art Deco, the windows, it was all so beautiful,” she recalled. “The tourists would come and they would not leave without photographing it.”
“马赛克、装饰风、窗户，都美极了，”她说。“游客走前都得拍几张照片。”