ARIS — A suspect linked to the Nov. 13 Paris attackers was found with surveillance footage of a high-ranking Belgian nuclear official, the Belgian authorities acknowledged on Thursday, raising fears that the Islamic State is trying to obtain radioactive material for a terrorist attack.
巴黎——比利时官方于周二承认，在一名与11月13日巴黎袭击有关的嫌疑人手中，警方发现了针对比利时一位高层核事务官员的监控录像。这让人们更加担心伊斯兰国(Islamic State)正在试图获取放射性物质，以用于恐怖袭击。
The existence of the footage, which the police in Belgium seized on Nov. 30, was confirmed by Thierry Werts, a spokesman for Belgium’s federal prosecutor, after being reported in the Belgian daily newspaper La Dernière Heure.
这份比利时警方于11月30日获取的影像资料已得到该国联邦检察官的发言人蒂里·沃茨(Thierry Werts)确认。此前比利时日报《最后一小时报》(La Dernière Heure)已对此进行了报道。
The news set off an immediate uproar among Belgian lawmakers, who charged that they and the country had been misled about the extent of the potential threats to the country’s nuclear facilities, as well as about the ambitions of the terrorist network linked to the Islamic State that used Belgium to plot the Paris attacks, which killed 130 people.
该新闻立刻在比利时的立法者当中掀起轩然大波，他们指责称，在国家核设施面临的潜在威胁和与伊斯兰国有关联的恐怖分子网络的野心上，该国民众和他们自己受到了误导。这些恐怖分子利用比利时谋划了巴黎袭击，并杀死130人。
The International Atomic Energy Agency also confirmed on Thursday a report by Reuters that radioactive material had gone missing since November in Iraq, where the Islamic State controls broad areas of territory, adding to fears that the group may be able to acquire material for an attack with newly disconcerting dimensions.
国际原子能机构(International Atomic Energy Agency)也于周二确认了一份路透社报告的真实性。该报告指出，一些放射性物质去年11月之后从伊拉克消失，而伊斯兰国在当地控制着大片领土。更让人恐慌的是，该组织也许能够为展开一次有着令人不安的新维度的袭击来获取这些物质。
The Belgian news media, citing sources close to the investigation, said that the surveillance footage had been retrieved from the home of Mohamed Bakkali, who was arrested after the attacks and is in detention on charges of terrorist activity and murder.
比利时的新闻媒体援引接近调查的消息人士称，该监控录像是从穆罕默德·巴卡里(Mohamed Bakkali)的家中搜得。穆罕默德·巴卡里在袭击后遭到逮捕和关押，目前面临恐怖主义活动和谋杀的指控。
Belgian officials have asserted privately that Mr. Bakkali may have been involved in planning several attacks, not only those in Paris. There are currently eight people in detention in Belgium and charged with involvement in the November attacks.
比利时官员曾在私下表示，巴卡里可能涉嫌谋划多起袭击，不只是巴黎的袭击。目前有八人被关押在比利时，并被指控与11月的袭击有关。
The purpose of the footage retrieved by the Belgian police was not clear. But experts and officials speculated that it could have been part of a plot to abduct the nuclear official, who was not identified but had access to secure areas of a nuclear research facility in Mol, and force him to turn over radioactive material, possibly for use in a dirty bomb.
比利时警方尚不清楚这份视频的目的。但是专家和官员猜测，这可能是绑架核事务官员计划的一部分。虽然该官员的身份并未被公开，但是他拥有进入位于摩尔的核研究设施安全区域的权限，恐怖组织可能逼迫他交出放射性物质，将其用于脏弹。
Sébastien Berg, a spokesman for Belgium’s Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, confirmed that the agency had been informed right away of the existence of the footage and said that employees had been told to increase their vigilance on the work floor. But he acknowledged that no additional guards had been hired or other measures taken to secure the perimeters of Belgium’s nuclear sites.
比利时联邦核管局(Federal Agency for Nuclear Control)的发言人塞巴斯蒂安·伯格(Sébastien Berg)证实，该局即刻获悉了该录像的情况，并表示当即便要求工作人员，提高对工作楼层的警惕。但是他承认并没有雇佣新的保安人员，也没有采取其他措施，来确保比利时核设施周边的安全。
“We took increased security measures at all four Belgian nuclear sites, based on the general raised security alert in the country and on concrete indications that showed that the terrorists involved in the Paris attacks had the intention to do something involving one of our four nuclear sites,” Mr. Berg said.
“基于比利时全国安全警戒度的提高，以及涉及巴黎袭击的恐怖分子企图利用比利时核设施的确凿证据，我们加强了全国四座核设施的安保措施，”伯格表示。
Those sites include two power plants and a private company that produces medical isotopes, in addition to the facility in Mol, where scientists conduct research and experiments on radioactive waste to try to find safer ways to store it and reduce damage to the environment, Mr. Berg said.
伯格说，这些核设施包括两座核电厂和一个制造医用同位素的私人企业，另外一个是位于摩尔的研究所，科学家在那里对核废料进行研究和试验，试图找到更安全的储存方法，减少对环境的破坏。
One experiment being carried out involves the stocking of nuclear waste in bunkers dozens of meters underground, he said, adding that the facility had large stocks of nuclear waste on hand.
其中一项正在进行的试验，涉及存放在地下几十米深处的掩体里的核废料。他还补充道，该研究所还储存着大量的核废料。
Members of Belgium’s Parliament expressed outrage in a regular session Thursday, saying that the interior minister, Jan Jambon, had told them in January that there was no specific threat to nuclear facilities.
比利时议员在周二的例行会议上表达了愤慨。他们称内政部长扬·延邦(Jan Jambon)曾在1月告诉他们，核设施不存在明确威胁。
“Your services possessed this videotape since Nov. 30, and the nuclear control agency was informed immediately,” said Jean-Marc Nollet, a Parliament member from Ecolo, Belgium’s green party. “So I don’t understand how you could have been in possession of this video since Nov. 30, but on Jan. 13, when I questioned you on this, you answered, ‘There is no specific threat to the nuclear facilities.’ ”
“你的部门在11月30日就得到了这份录像，而核管局也立刻接到了通知，”来自比利时环保政党生态党(Ecolo)的议员让-马克·诺莱(Jean-Marc Nollet)说。“那我就不明白了，既然你在11月30日就得到了录像，但是在1月13日，当我向你问起这件事时，你的回答是，‘核设施不存在明确威胁’。”
“I agree we shouldn’t give in to panic, but between giving in to panic and denying the magnitude of the risks, there is a big difference,” Mr. Nollet said.
“我同意我们不应该陷入恐慌，但是陷入恐慌与否认存在巨大的风险，完全是两码事，”诺莱说。
Mr. Jambon responded that after viewing the tapes, the ministry had determined that there was a threat “to the person in question, but not the nuclear facilities.”
延邦回应称，在看过录像后，内政部认为这对“该人构成了威胁，而不是对核设施”。
Extremist organizations have long expressed interest in obtaining radioactive material, and there is a market for stolen nuclear waste. News reports in October documented at least four attempts by Russian gangs to sell radioactive material in Moldova, which were thwarted by local officials in concert with the United States’ Federal Bureau of Investigation.
极端组织早就对取得放射性材料表现出了兴趣，而且被盗核废料的市场是存在的。去年10月的新闻报道显示，俄罗斯黑帮至少四次企图在摩尔多瓦(Moldova)出售放射性物质。在美国联邦调查局的配合下，当地警方挫败了他们的交易。
The International Atomic Energy Agency identified the material missing in Iraq as iridium-192, a highly radioactive isotope that is sometimes sought for use in dirty bombs.
国际原子能机构确认了在伊拉克失踪的物质是铱192，这是一种具有高度放射性的同位素，有时会用于制造脏弹。
Mr. Berg said that, if acquired, the material at the site in Mol could also be used to make a dirty bomb, which would spread radioactive material over the whole impact zone.
伯格说，摩尔核设施的放射性物质一旦被获取，也可以制成脏弹。脏弹会将放射性物质扩散到整个受影响的区域。
“If they find a way to spread such material among the population, they could do a lot of damage,” he said of the terrorist network. “Anything is possible. It is only up to them to come up with such evil ideas.”
“如果他们找到一种方法在人群中扩散放射性物质，就可能造成巨大破坏，”他在谈论恐怖组织时说。“一切都是可能的。只有他们才能想出这些邪恶的主意。”
However, experts who have studied radiological weapons believe that the physical risk from such attacks would be small, said Jim Walsh, a research associate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Security Studies Program.
不过，放射性武器专家认为，这种袭击对生理的伤害不大，吉姆·沃尔什(Jim Walsh)说。沃尔什是麻省理工学院安全研究项目的研究员。
“A dirty bomb is not a nuclear weapon,” Mr. Walsh said. “It is a conventional weapon with radiological material strapped to it. Most experts agree that if a dirty bomb goes off, people are much more likely to be killed by the TNT than by the radiological material.”
“脏弹并不是核武器，”沃尔什说。“那是绑着放射性物质的常规武器。大多数专家都认为，假如脏弹爆炸，更有可能导致人员死亡的是TNT，而不是放射性物质。”