PARIS — The Belgian man suspected of being the plotter of the Paris terrorist attacks was a target of Western airstrikes on the Islamic State stronghold of Raqqa, Syria, as recently as last month, according to a European security official.
巴黎——据欧洲安全官员说，被怀疑为巴黎恐怖袭击主谋的比利时男子，曾是西方空袭伊斯兰国在叙利亚的据点拉卡时的目标，时间就是最近的上个月。
The man, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, 27, a fighter for the Islamic State, is believed to have escaped to Syria after the authorities in January foiled another terrorist plot, which had targeted the eastern Belgian city of Verviers, the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss operational details.
这名男子是27岁的阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴奥德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)，他是一名伊斯兰国战士，据认他在今年1月当局挫败了一次恐怖阴谋之后逃到了叙利亚，那次被挫败的恐怖袭击针对的是比利时东部城市韦尔维耶，该官员说，这位官员要求不具名，因为是在讨论警方行动的细节。
The search for Abaaoud intensified as both French and Russian warplanes pounded Raqqa. Ten French fighter jets, taking off from bases in Jordan and the Persian Gulf, dropped 16 bombs around 1:30 a.m. Paris time on what the French Defense Ministry described as a command center and a training center, both belonging to the Islamic State. Hours later, the Russian military launched cruise missiles and long-range bombers at Raqqa, after Moscow announced that a terrorist bomb brought down a Russian charter jet over the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt on Oct. 31, killing all 224 on board. The Sinai branch of the Islamic State has taken responsibility for that attack.
警方加强追捕阿巴奥德的同时，法国和俄罗斯的战机对拉卡进行了轰炸。10架法国战斗机从约旦和波斯湾的基地起飞，于巴黎时间凌晨1点30分左右，将16枚炸弹投在了法国国防部描述为属于伊斯兰国的指挥中心和培训中心的地方。几小时后，俄罗斯军方向拉卡发射了巡航导弹，并派出远程轰炸机，莫斯科在那之前宣布，恐怖分子的炸弹导致了一架俄罗斯包机于10月31日在埃及的西奈半岛坠毁，机上的224人全部遇难。伊斯兰国的西奈半岛分支已表示对袭击飞机事件负责。
Across Europe, the search for suspects and clues in the Paris assaults continued.
在欧洲各地，追捕制造巴黎袭击的犯罪嫌疑人以及有关线索的工作仍在继续。
Federal prosecutors in Belgium on Tuesday charged two Belgian citizens — Hamza Attou, 21, a Brussels native; and Mohamed Amri, 27, who was born in Morocco — with participation in a terrorist activity or organization, in connection with Friday's attacks. They were among seven men arrested on Saturday; the other five have been released.
比利时联邦检察官周二起诉了两名比利时公民，他们是21岁的布鲁塞尔人哈姆扎·阿图(Hamza Attou)，以及在摩洛哥出生的、27岁的穆罕默德·阿姆里(Mohamed Amri)，罪名是参与和上周五的袭击有关的恐怖活动或组织。他们是上周六被捕的七人中的两名，其余五人已被释放。
Both men live in the Brussels district of Molenbeek, which was a base for Abaaoud and for two brothers: Ibrahim Abdeslam, who blew himself up inside a restaurant on Friday; and his brother Salah, now the target of a manhunt.
这两人都住在布鲁塞尔的莫伦贝克区。阿巴奥德和另外两个兄弟也把莫伦贝克区作为基地：哥哥易卜拉欣·阿布达斯兰(Ibrahim Abdeslam)已于上周五在一家餐馆引爆身上的炸药自尽，弟弟萨拉赫(Salah)目前仍是追捕的目标。
Salah Abdeslam was stopped at a traffic check in the French town of Cambrai on Saturday morning, as he headed toward the Belgian border, but was waved through after an identity check.
萨拉赫·阿布达斯兰在上周六通往比利时边境的路上，曾在法国小镇康布雷的一次交通检查中被警方停留，但在对他进行了身份检查后又被放行。
On Tuesday, the Austrian police disclosed that Salah Abdeslam was also stopped during a routine police check in northern Austria on Sept. 9 — four days after Germany and Austria opened their borders to refugees streaming in via Hungary. Abdeslam crossed into Austria from Germany in a car with two other men who have not been identified, an Interior Ministry spokesman said. Abdeslam told the police that he would be spending a few days on vacation in Austria, the spokesman said.
周二，奥地利警方透露，萨拉赫·阿布达斯兰也曾于9月9日在奥地利北部的一次例行检查中被警方停留，那是德国和奥地利对从匈牙利涌入的大批难民开放边界的四天后。阿布达斯兰与另外两名男子一起乘车从德国进入奥地利，那两名男子的身份尚未确定，一位内政部发言人说。这位发言人说，阿布达斯兰告诉警察，他将在奥地利度几天假。
On Tuesday, the European Union took the extraordinary step of invoking an article of the bloc's Lisbon Treaty that states: “If a member state is the victim of armed aggression on its territory, the other member states shall have towards it an obligation of aid and assistance by all the means in their power.”
周二，欧盟向启动欧盟里斯本条约中的一个条款迈出了非凡的一步，该条款是：“如果一个成员国在其领土上成为武装侵略的受害者，其他成员国有使用本国权力范围内的一切手段向受害国提供援助的义务。”
The practical effect of that move — which had been sought by President François Hollande of France — was not immediately clear, but the decision formally commits the 27 other members of the European Union to support France.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)已寻求启动该条款，启动的实际效果是什么目前尚不清楚，但启动的决定将让欧盟的其他27个成员正式承诺支持法国。
Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve told France Info radio that the police had conducted 128 raids in France overnight against terrorism suspects.
法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)对法兰西新闻(France Info)广播电台说，警方已在法国连夜进行了128次针对恐怖主义嫌疑人的突击搜查。
Seven of the attackers died, and authorities were looking for an eighth suspect.
巴黎袭击的制造者中有七人已死，当局正在寻找第八名嫌犯。
Cazeneuve also said that 115,000 police officers and troops had been deployed across the country “to ensure the protection of the French.”
卡泽纳夫还说，已在全国范围内部署了11.5万名警察和士兵，“以确保法国人的安全。”
The new details of the hunt for Abaaoud and the failure of the airstrikes to kill him are the latest evidence of how many of those suspected of having taken part in the Paris attacks were known to the authorities beforehand.
有关追捕阿巴奥德、以及用空袭杀他未果的新细节提供的最新证据表明，那些参与巴黎袭击的嫌疑人中，有不少人是当局事先就知道的。
France remained in a state of emergency on Tuesday, the third and final day of official mourning.
周二，法国仍处于紧急状态，这是三天官方哀悼的最后一天。
Secretary of State John Kerry, in a hastily arranged trip to Paris to show solidarity, said the United States and France had no choice but to wage war against the Islamic State, the apocalyptic militant group that purports to have restored a caliphate, or a global Muslim community under a single leader.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在一次为了表示声援而匆忙安排的巴黎之行期间说，美国和法国除了对伊斯兰国开战别无选择，伊斯兰国是在全球制造动乱的激进组织，号称恢复了哈里发，既一个人领导下的全球穆斯林社会。
“This is just raw terror to set up a caliphate,” Kerry said before separate meetings with Hollande and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius. “This is not a situation where we have a choice. We're not choosing to randomly go to war. We're trying to avoid it, trying to find a better path.”
克里在分别与奥朗德和法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)会面之前表示，“建立哈里发本身就是赤裸裸的恐怖。这不是我们可以作出选择的情况。我们不是在随意地选择打仗。我们在努力避免战争，在试图找到更好的途径。”
Kerry reiterated President Barack Obama's observation, a day earlier, that suicide bombings were impossible to completely prevent. “If somebody is willing to die — if you want to go die on any given day — unfortunately, you can take some people with you.” At least four Americans were wounded in the attacks on Paris, and one, Nohemi Gonzalez, died.
克里重申了奥巴马总统一天前的论述，即不可能完全阻止自杀式的爆炸袭击。克里说，“如果有人愿意去死，如果你想在任何一天死去，不幸的是，你可以拉上他人垫被。”至少有四名美国人在巴黎恐怖袭击中受伤，还有一位名叫诺赫米·冈萨雷斯(Nohemi Gonzalez)的美国人在袭击中身亡。
After meeting with Hollande, Kerry said he would be back in Paris shortly to attend a global climate change conference, scheduled for Nov. 30 to Dec. 11.
与奥朗德会面后，克里说，他不久将再次来到巴黎，参加定于11月30日至12月11日举行的全球气候变化大会。