PARIS — A life-size installation of a giant blue whale has been erected on the Left Bank of the Seine, intended as a reminder to negotiators at the international climate conference here that the fate of threatened species is also in their hands.
巴黎——一座实物的蓝鲸雕塑被树立在巴黎塞纳河左岸，以提醒那些巴黎国际气候变化会议的与会者们，濒危物种们的命运也掌握在他们的手中。
For the teams that built the 110-foot metal sculpture in the image of Bluebelle, as the great beast was named when caught a century ago, the message has also become a timely protest. On Dec. 1, as world leaders gathered here to address the climate conference, Japan’s whaling fleet set sail for its annual hunting season in the Antarctic.
对于树立起这座高达110英尺的金属蓝鲸雕塑的组织方来说，在这头大型动物被捕捉并命名的百年之后，这座雕像传递了一个及时的抗议信号。12月1日，正在世界各国领导人齐聚于此，共赏气候变化大计之时，日本的捕鲸船正准备前往南极进行年度捕鲸活动。
“People who care about whales have come to us saying, ‘Have you heard the terrible news from Japan?’ ” said Pierre Douay, a wildlife photographer and one of the organizers of the blue whale installation.
“关心鲸鱼的人们对我们说，‘你听说日本那边的可怕消息了吗？’”皮埃尔·杜埃（Pierre Douay）说道。他是一位野生动物摄影师，也是这座蓝鲸雕像的活动的组织者之一。
Japan is not the only country to ignore public pleas and international conventions by continuing the centuries-old practice of killing whales; Iceland and Norway are among others. But critics say Japan is the only nation that labels its commercial hunt as “research.” And this month, when a factory ship and three fast harpoon vessels left Japan on their way to the Antarctic, the Japanese ignored a ban on this activity issued by the International Court of Justice, the United Nations court in The Hague.
一个世纪的捕鲸历史当中，日本并不是唯一忽视公众抗议和国际会议的国家，冰岛和挪威两国也置身其中。但是批评者认为，日本是唯一给商业捕鲸贴上“科研”标签的国家。而本月，当一艘商业船只和三艘捕鲸快艇离开日本前往南极后，日本人忽视了联合国海牙国际法庭下达的捕鲸禁令。
Commercial whaling has been banned since 1986, but the International Whaling Commission made an exception for whale hunting for scientific research. However, in a case brought by Australia, the international court ruled in 2014 that, while Japan had killed thousands of whales since 1987 in the name of research, its program had produced little science and was therefore illegal under international law.
自1986年开始，商业捕鲸被明令禁止，但是国际捕鲸委员会允许进行科研捕鲸。然而，2014年国际法院就澳大利亚提交的案件进行裁决时认为，日本自1987年之后，以科研的名义捕杀了上千头鲸鱼，并无任何科研成果，因此，根据国际法判定其为非法活动。
To sidestep the court ruling, Japan has renamed the program and reduced its hunting targets by two-thirds. But on the eve of the Paris summit, it announced that to research the health of whales and their habitat, it plans to kill close to 4,000 minke whales in the Antarctic region over the next 12 years.
为了回避法庭判决，日本重新命名了该活动，并削减了三分之二的捕鲸数量。但是就在巴黎气候峰会前夕，日本宣布为了研究鲸鱼的健康状况和其栖息地，他们计划在未来12年内，在南极海域捕杀约4000头小须鲸。
Conservationists groups here, including Un Cadeau pour la Terre (A Gift to the Earth) and Biom, which built Bluebelle and an attendant exhibit near the Pont des Invalides along the Seine, have seized on Japan’s latest move as further proof that only concerted international pressure can overrule narrow national interests and avert the rapid decline of many species.
包括“馈赠地球”（Un Cadeau pour la Terre）以及“生物律动”（Biom）等负责在塞纳河荣军院桥附近修建蓝鲸雕像并组织展览的动物保护组织认为，日本最近的行动表明，只有施加一致的国际压力才能拖延个别国家的狭隘企图，避免大量濒危物种数量下降。
Paul Watson, for one, is not waiting for diplomacy to work. An American sea captain, he is a founder of Sea Shepherd, an international conservation group that sends ships to the icy waters of Antarctica to block and harass Japan’s whalers during each Southern Hemisphere summer.
保罗·沃特森（Paul Watson）就是其中的一位，他是一位美国船长，也是国际动物保护组织“海洋守护者协会”（Sea Shepherd）的创立者，在每年南半球夏季时，这一组织经常派遣船只前往南极海域堵截和扰乱日本捕鲸船的活动。
“All whales must be protected,” he said while visiting Bluebelle here. “They are the farmers of the ocean. They bring up iron, nitrogen and other nutrients to the surface. They are part of a system that is millions of years old, and we are in the midst of destroying it.”
“每一头鲸鱼都必须被保护起来，”在参观蓝鲸雕像时他说道，“它们是大海里的农夫，它们将铁、氮和其他营养物质带到海面，是这个上百万年生态系统的一部分，而我们正在破坏这个系统。”
Visitors from India, the United States and Germany mingled on the bank of the Seine this weekend, strolling under the white belly of the majestic beast and along its giant blue-gray back and sides. Mr. Douay said that Bluebelle, caught by British whalers off South Georgia in the South Atlantic in 1912, was one of the largest blue whales on record and possibly one of the largest animals ever known.
本周末，来自印度、美国和德国的参观者聚集在塞纳河畔，漫步于这头优雅庞然大物的白色肚皮和蓝灰色脊背之下。杜埃先生说，1912年英国捕鲸者在南太平洋南乔治亚海域捕获的蓝鲸是有记录以来体型最大、也许是目前所知最大的动物之一。
Paris is only the first stop in Bluebelle’s campaign on behalf of threatened species. There are plans for it to travel around France and abroad, possibly as far as New York.
巴黎只是这场濒危物种蓝鲸宣传活动的第一站。他们计划在法国和国外进行巡回展出，甚至最远计划前往纽约。
Jerome Pensu, one of the organizers, said visitors were upset not only about Japan’s whale killing, but also about the brutal way they are killed. People have seen films about whales, the world’s largest mammal, being dynamited and electrocuted, and thrashing in pain until they drown, he said.
此次活动的组织者之一杰罗米·佩苏（Jerome Pensu）说，参观者感到失望的不仅仅是日本的捕鲸活动，还有他们捕杀鲸鱼的残忍手段。他说，通过观看一些关于鲸鱼的影片，人们已经了解到这种世界上最大的哺乳动物正在炸药、电击、殴打当中饱受蹂躏，直到活活因窒息而死。
Japan insists that it has scrapped fin whales and humpbacks from its list and that the minke whales it plans to kill are abundant. “We are confident we have completed our scientific homework,” Joji Morishita, a Japanese official, told journalists in Tokyo on Monday.
日本坚称他们已经从捕鲸名单上删除了长须鲸和座头鲸的名字，而准备要捕杀的小须鲸则数量过多。一位名叫森下贞治的日本官员(音译)周一在东京告诉记者说，“我相信我们已经完成了科研活动。”
Japanese newspapers have reported that even though most people have lost interest in whale meat, the country wants to defend its tradition and not be seen as caving to foreign pressure. The government largely pays for the unprofitable business.
日本的报纸曾经报道，虽然多数人对鲸鱼肉已经失去了兴趣，但是该国想保护自己的传统，不想被认为屈服于外部压力。日本政府在这一无法盈利的活动上支出巨大。
On Oct. 6, Japan sought to protect itself from fresh international legal action by informing the International Court of Justice that it no longer recognized its jurisdiction in any dispute relating to “living resources of the sea.” In November, the government-backed Japanese whalers ignored a $1 million fine by an Australian federal court for whaling within the Australian Whale Sanctuary.
10月6日，日本为了避免最新的国际法律制裁，告知国际法庭今后不认可该法院对任何“海洋生物资源”相关争议的裁判权。11月，因在澳大利亚鲸鱼保护区内捕鲸，日本政府支持下的捕鲸者无视了澳大利亚法院一百万美元的罚款裁定。