PARIS — Amedy Coulibaly, one of the three gunmen responsible for the terrorist attacks in France last week, produced a video that appeared online on Sunday, two days after his death, showing him sitting below the flag of the Islamic State militant group and pledging allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the organization’s leader.
巴黎——周日，实施法国上周的恐怖袭击的三名持械歹徒之一艾米第·古里巴利(Amedy Coulibaly)制作的一则视频出现在了网上。他本人已于两天前死亡。视频显示，他坐在激进组织伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）的旗帜下方，并宣誓效忠于该组织的领导人阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)。
The video — which was posted on Twitter and was authenticated by a former lawyer of Mr. Coulibaly’s and a research group that tracks propaganda by militants — provides further evidence that the coordinated attacks last week were at a minimum inspired by organized terrorist groups.
这段视频——发布在Twitter上，并已经过古里巴利之前的一名律师和一家追踪激进分子宣传活动的研究组织鉴定属实——提供了进一步的证据，表明上周的协同袭击至少受到了有组织的恐怖团体的启发。
The extent of Mr. Coulibaly’s ties to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, remains unclear, as does the question of whether he received any training or support from the group as he was said to have plotted the assaults in and around Paris with Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, brothers who said they were acting on behalf of Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen.
目前尚不清楚古里巴利与伊斯兰国的关系深浅，也不清楚他是否曾在策划阶段接受伊斯兰国的任何训练或支持。据称，他与赛义德(Saïd)和谢里夫·库瓦奇(Chérif Kouachi)兄弟一起在巴黎及其周边地区策划了本轮袭击。两兄弟曾经表示，他们在代表基地组织(Al Qaeda)的也门分支行事。
The Islamic State split from Al Qaeda last year after years of ideological division, making the coordination between adherents of the rival groups the only known case in which their backers have cooperated to carry out such a high-profile assault.
去年，在多年的意识形态分歧下，伊斯兰国从基地组织分离出去。所以，这两个存在对抗的组织的各自追随者之间的此次合作，成为了它们联合展开如此高调的袭击的唯一已知案例。
The video, which is seven minutes and 16 seconds long, opens with scenes of the 32-year-old Mr. Coulibaly doing pull-ups and push-ups at a training ground, as well as shots of his assembled arsenal of automatic weapons. The screen goes black, and the title appears: “A Soldier of the Caliphate.”
这段视频长达7分钟16秒，开头是32岁的古里巴利在训练场上做引体向上和俯卧撑的场景，以及他搜集的各式自动武器的镜头。接下来屏幕变黑，出现标题：《哈里发国的战士》(A Soldier of the Caliphate)。
In a reference to the Islamic State leader, Mr. Baghdadi, Mr. Coulibaly adds, “I pledge allegiance to the caliph.”
他还提到了伊斯兰国的领导人巴格达迪，表示“我宣誓效忠于哈里发。”
The authorities say Mr. Coulibaly was responsible for the killing of a police officer in Montrouge, a Paris suburb, on Thursday and a siege of a kosher supermarket in Paris on Friday, where four hostages died. On Sunday, a prosecutor in France said shell casings used in the shooting of a jogger in a Paris suburb on Wednesday had been linked to the weapon that was said to have been used by Mr. Coulibaly at the supermarket. The jogger survived.
当局称，古里巴利周四在巴黎市郊的蒙鲁日杀害了一名警察，周五又袭击了巴黎的一家犹太洁食超市，造成四名人质死亡。周日，法国的一名检察官表示，巴黎市郊的一名慢跑者周三遭到枪击，而弹壳与据称古里巴利在犹太超市所使用的武器有关。这名慢跑者幸存了下来。
Among the questions facing intelligence and security services is whether Mr. Coulibaly is a new model of terrorist, one who identifies with a particular organized group and takes inspiration and general direction from it but is not trained, supplied or directly financed by it.
情报和安全部门所面临的一个问题是：古里巴利是否代表着一种新型恐怖分子？这种人自称属于某个特定组织，并接受该组织的启发和方向指导，但是并不受其训练，也不享受它的供给或直接资助。
Regarding his relationship to the Kouachi brothers — who massacred 12 people at the satirical French newspaper Charlie Hebdo — he states that they acted separately but with some coordination. His choice of words suggests that the assault on the publication, which had published caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, was conceived separately by the Kouachis and that he piggybacked onto their attack.
关于与库瓦奇兄弟的关系——后者在法国的讽刺刊物《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的办公室射杀了12人——古里巴利表示，他们单独行动，但是进行了一定程度的配合。他的措辞说明，针对该报的袭击行动由库瓦奇兄弟单独策划，但他借助了两兄弟的袭击开展了自己的行动。该报曾刊登针对先知穆罕默德的讽刺漫画。
“The brothers in our team divided themselves into two,” he said.
“我们团队的兄弟一分为二，”他说。
“We partly worked together, but we also worked separately,” he said, adding that he had helped one of the Kouachi brothers by providing several thousand euros “so that he could finish what he started and by the grace of God, we were able to synchronize ourselves.”
“我们在一定程度上开展合作，但我们也分开行动。”他还表示，自己曾帮助过库瓦奇兄弟中的一人，为其提供了数千欧元，“以便他能完成已经启动的计划，并在安拉的庇佑下，让我们能够步调一致。”
Officials in the United States and France said Saïd Kouachi, 34, traveled to Yemen in 2011 to train with Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, considered the terrorist group’s most dangerous arm. Mr. Kouachi, moreover, is known to have briefly shared a room with Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a member of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, who tried to blow up an airliner over Detroit in 2009 using explosives hidden in his underwear. Intelligence and security agencies are also investigating whether Chérif Kouachi also traveled to Yemen.
美国及法国的官员表示，34岁的赛义德·库瓦奇曾于2011年前往也门，接受阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)的培训。外界认为，阿拉伯半岛分支是该恐怖团体中最危险的分支。除此之外，目前知道，赛义德·库瓦奇曾在短期内与该分支的成员奥马尔·法鲁克·阿卜杜勒穆塔拉卜(Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab)共住一室。后者于2009年试图利用藏在内衣中的炸药炸毁即将抵达底特律的一个航班。情报及安全机构还在调查谢里夫·库瓦奇是否也去过也门。
​Hours before his death in a hail of gunfire on Friday, Chérif Kouachi, 32, told a French television reporter by telephone that he had been sent by Al Qaeda in Yemen and had been financed by the group’s best-known propagandist, Anwar al-Awlaki.
周五，32岁的谢里夫·库瓦奇在枪战中被击毙。在此之前的几个小时，他通过电话告诉一家法国电视台的记者，自己受基地组织也门分支的派遣，并由其最著名的教士安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)资助。
Neither the Islamic State nor the Qaeda group has issued an official statement claiming responsibility, although a member of the Qaeda group sent reporters a text message over the weekend, stating that it had chosen the targets in France and was responsible.
虽然一名基地组织成员在周末期间给多名记者发送短信，宣称该组织选择了在法国的攻击目标，并为此事负责，但伊斯兰国和基地组织均未发布正式的担责声明。
According to investigators, Mr. Coulibaly originally met Chérif Kouachi in jail in a decade ago, where both were acolytes of Djamel Beghal, a champion of jihad. They stayed in touch, and after all three were released, investigators said, they began plotting to get another person accused of being a terrorist out of jail.
调查人员透露，古里巴利十年前在监狱中与谢里夫·库瓦奇相识。两人当时都在狱中追随圣战支持者贾迈勒·贝加勒(Djamel Beghal)。调查人员表示，他们一直保持联系，在三人均获释之后，开始策划帮助另一名受到恐怖分子指控的人越狱。