Nicolas Ghesquière was appointed on Monday as the women’s design director for Louis Vuitton, taking over from Marc Jacobs, who left the fashion house last month.
尼古拉斯·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)周一（此处指11月4日）被任命为路易·威登的女装设计总监。其前任是马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)，他上个月离开该公司。
“I am so happy. It is an excitement. A feeling that what I lived before was preparing me to do this,” said Mr. Ghesquière, 42, who had been with Balenciaga for 15 years until his departure in 2012.
“我非常高兴。这真是让人兴奋。我感觉之前的人生就是为此做准备的，”今年42岁的盖斯奇埃尔在巴黎世家(Balenciaga)工作了15年，2012年离开。
The announcement was to be made late Monday.
这项任命是在周一晚些时候宣布的。
In a comment Monday, Michael Burke, Vuitton’s chairman and chief executive, said: “Crafting is the metaphor. We are talking about Nicolas crafting his destiny today, and we, on our side, are crafting the success of Louis Vuitton.”
周一，LV的主席、首席执行官迈克尔·伯克(Michael Burke)说，“今天的情况可以用‘苦心经营’来形容。尼古拉斯在苦心经营他的命运，我们这边呢，在苦心经营LV的成功。”
This major change in the most profitable company owned by LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton — Louis Vuitton is known as the group’s cash cow — is part of wider strategic shift in the luxury world, where designers who can target a 21st-century global audience are at a premium. During Mr. Ghesquière’s stint at Balenciaga, he worked for Kering, formally PPR, a rival to LVMH.
LV是路威酩轩(LVMH)集团旗下最赚钱的公司，是该集团众所周知的摇钱树。公司这项重大调整属于奢侈品界更大范围内战略转变的一部分。在如今的奢侈品界，能吸引21世纪全球顾客的设计师特别抢手。盖斯奇埃尔在巴黎世家的时候，是为路威酩轩集团的对手开云集团（Kering，前身为巴黎春天集团）服务。
Although designers seem to have morphed into commodities to be bought and sold in recent years, Mr. Ghesquière said that he felt a genuine affinity with the leather goods house.
虽然近些年设计师们似乎变成了被买卖的商品，但是盖斯奇埃尔说他感觉自己与这家皮制品公司有真正的共鸣。
“Louis Vuitton is a universe much more than a brand,” he said, “a community that everyone is a part of, with values of craftsmanship, of innovation and of traveling. A very complete universe.”
“LV不仅是个品牌，更像一个小宇宙，”他说，“它是一个人人可以参与的社区，注重工艺、创新和旅行。它是一个非常完整的小宇宙。”
The designer could not have known when he found a classic Monogram bag in a vintage store several years ago — his only Vuitton possession apart from a travel bag bought in Los Angeles and now a new scarf — that he would one day be at the creative helm of the 159-year-old house.
这位设计师几年前在一个古董店里找到了一个经典的、印有LV交织字母的包，那时他肯定没想到，有一天他会成为这家有159年历史的公司的创意总监。除了那个包，他拥有的LV产品只有在洛杉矶购买的一个旅行包和一条新围巾。
Mr. Ghesquière said he would be the artistic director of women’s wear, with accompanying control over all visuals and advertising campaigns. The men’s side will remain separate, with Kim Jones continuing as style director, the post he took on in 2011.
盖斯奇埃尔说他将担任女装艺术总监，同时负责相关的广告宣传。男装仍将保持独立，由2011年上任的金姆·琼斯(Kim Jones)继续担任设计总监。
Mr. Ghesquière’s first Louis Vuitton show will be the autumn 2014 collection, and he said that he would give no interviews during the intervening period “to keep a surprise for March.” That show will take place in a Paris landmark, the Cour Carrée du Louvre, where Mr. Jacobs’s Vuitton collections have been shown recently. His successor called the venue symbolic of what the fashion house stands for.
盖斯奇埃尔的第一场LV时装秀将是2014秋冬系列。他说在那之前，他不接受任何采访，“以便在三月份给大家带来惊喜”。那场时装秀将在巴黎的地标建筑卢浮宫中庭举行，前不久雅可布的LV系列就是在这里展示的。他的继任者称这个地方能象征这个时装公司。
Mr. Ghesquière had warm words for the departing designer, saying: “I have a lot of respect and admiration for Marc Jacobs. He made Louis Vuitton relevant in fashion and will always be known as the first designer of the brand. Among the many things he did there were the artist collaborations that have become some of the fundamentals of the brand. I am very proud to succeed him.”
盖斯奇埃尔对离职的前任设计师给予了热情的评价：“我十分尊重和仰慕马克·雅可布。他让LV在时装界举足轻重，作为该品牌的第一位设计师，他将永远被铭记。他做了很多事，其中一件就是营造了艺术家们协作的氛围，这已经成为这个品牌的基石之一。能成为他的继任者，我感到十分荣幸。”
But what about the Nicolas Ghesquière name above the door of a personal brand? Mr. Jacobs kept his own label under the auspices of his parent company. And when he left Louis Vuitton, Bernard Arnault, chairman and chief executive of LVMH, said that the designer had departed to concentrate on his own label.
但是他有没有想过创建以自己的名字命名的品牌呢？雅可布一直让自己的品牌处于母公司的保护之下。他离开LV时，路威酩轩集团的主席、首席执行官贝尔纳·阿尔诺(Bernard Arnault)说，这位设计师离开是为了专注于自己的品牌。
Mr. Ghesquière said he was not putting down the foundations of a personal brand.
盖斯奇埃尔说他没有放弃创立个人品牌的想法。
“This is something I always think about, since I started,” he said, “that one day maybe I will do my own name. But not now when I was asked to do something so fantastic. I am not saying ‘no.’ I would say ‘focus’ and ‘concentrate.”’
他说，“从一开始我就一直在想，也许有一天我会创立自己的品牌。但不是现在，因为现在我被请来做这么有趣的事情。我并不是完全放弃。我的意思是我应该‘专注’。”  
“To give my point of view,” the designer continued, “to be part of that history, I am absolutely dedicated to make a new proposition” at Louis Vuitton. “I am so excited. And I think I will be very busy. I have my playground for a few years now.”
这位设计师继续说道，“能够表达我的观点，能够成为这个公司历史的一部分，我绝对想专心致志”；能在LV“做出成绩来。我特别兴奋，我想我会很忙。未来几年我都有发挥才能的地方了”。
The last time Mr. Ghesquière spoke about his career was in May in the Parisian magazine System, when he complained about a lack of dynamism in his previous company, which then took legal action against him.
盖斯奇埃尔上次谈论自己的事业是今年5月份对巴黎杂志《System》抱怨自己的老东家缺乏活力，导致该公司对他提起了诉讼。
A former executive at LVMH, who did not wish to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue, said that Delphine Arnault, daughter of the group chairman and executive president at Louis Vuitton Malletier, had encouraged the company to choose Mr. Ghesquière and that she might not be averse to the idea of his founding, in the future, a fashion company under his own name.
路威酩轩集团的一位前任执行官说，该集团主席的女儿、LV的执行总裁戴尔芬·阿尔诺(Delphine Arnault)鼓励LV选择盖斯奇埃尔，而且她可能不会反对他未来成立自己的时装公司。鉴于这件事的敏感性，该执行官不想公布自己的姓名。
A relatively humble childhood in the small, medieval town of Loudun in France’s Loire region, where his father was a swimming coach and golf course manager, might seem an unlikely foundation for a life in fashion. But his genes did give him the look of d’Artagnan, as Dumas described his 17th-century musketeer. After watching how women dressed, drawing them and, as the designer said, “discovering life and style,” Mr. Ghesquière joined Jean Paul Gaultier in 1990, where he learned the “aesthetic of mixing.” He ultimately was hired by Balenciaga to create golf wear and mourning outfits for Japanese licenses.
盖斯奇埃尔在法国卢瓦尔区的老式小镇卢丹(Loudun)长大，童年比较贫寒，父亲是游泳教练兼高尔夫球场管理员。这样的童年似乎没有给他未来进军时装界奠定基础。但是基因却给了他达达尼昂(的容貌，就像大仲马笔下17世纪的火枪手。在观察女性着装，给她们画像，以及“发现生活和时尚”（这位设计师的原话）之后，盖斯奇埃尔在1990年加入了高缇耶(Jean Paul Gaultier)时装公司，在那里学习了“搭配美学”。他后来被巴黎世家聘去设计高尔夫服饰，以及为日本客户定制丧服。
The Balenciaga years were viewed through Mr. Ghesquière’s 1980s prism, bringing “Star Wars” and scuba diving prints to the noble, Spanish couture world of Cristóbal Balenciaga.
盖斯奇埃尔在巴黎世家的岁月体现在他服装中的20世纪80年代特色——他把《星球大战》(Star Wars)和水肺潜水的图案引入到了克里斯托巴尔·巴伦西亚加(Cristóbal Balenciaga)高贵的西班牙定制服装的世界里。
Those combinations were intriguing, imaginative and put the designer in a commanding position as a creative force. He also produced one of the first “It” bags: the Lariat, with multiple zippers, as seen on the arm of Kate Moss.
这些组合具有吸引力和想象力，使这位设计师成了创意团队的统帅。他还生产了首批经典包的其中一款：Lariat包，它有很多拉链，你可以在凯特·摩斯(Kate Moss)的手臂上看到。
Louis Vuitton’s new designer admitted that ready-to-wear clothing did not play the most important role in a brand led by luggage and leather goods.
LV的这位新总监承认，成衣在这个由行李箱和皮制品主导的品牌中扮演的并不是最重要的角色。
But he insisted that “fashion is not only about clothes, it is between art and culture. Values that Louis Vuitton represents.”
但是他坚称，“时装不只跟衣服有关，它处于艺术和文化之间。这些都是LV所代表的价值。”
So what is “luxury” in the era when Vuitton’s world of stately travel has morphed into instant pictures on Instagram and instant sales on e-commerce?
如今，LV豪华旅行的世界已经演变成Instagram上的即时照片和电子商务中的即时销售。那么，在这个时代，“奢侈”到底是什么意思呢？
Mr. Ghesquière’s definition of luxury is “the way things are done.”
盖斯奇埃尔对“奢侈”的定义是“做事情的方式”。
“My idea of what is luxury craftsmanship is savoir-faire, unique and secret ways of craftsmanship and ‘exigence,”’ said the designer, using a difficult-to-translate French word meaning a demanding excellence.
“我对奢侈的理解是机敏、独特、秘密的工艺方法以及‘exigence’，”这位设计师说。‘exigence’是个不好翻译的法语单词，大致意思是“要求极高，品质卓越”。
“And time is luxury. To have time to develop, to have great ideas, to make a collection at the right time. Time is an important element,” Mr. Ghesquière continued. “First, there is innovation. Then it becomes timeless.”
“时间就是奢侈。要有时间去开发，去想出好主意，去在恰当的时间推出一个系列。时间是个重要的因素，”盖斯奇埃尔继续说道，“首先，要有创新。然后才能经久不衰。”