A Chinese tailor, Zhang Chaolin, emigrated to France with his wife and two sons in 2006 in search of a better life. They settled in Aubervilliers, a working-class suburb of Paris, where a decade of striving finally put that life within reach.
法国奥贝维埃——为了寻求更好的生活，中国裁缝张朝林在2006年偕妻子与两个儿子移民法国。他们在巴黎郊区的工人阶级聚居区奥贝维埃市安顿下来。经过十年的奋斗之后，更好的生活终于近在咫尺。
His sons, now in their 20s, work and have their own families. Last year, the younger son had his first child, making Mr. Zhang a grandfather.
张家两个儿子如今都二十多岁了，已各自成立了自己的家庭；小儿子在去年生了第一个孩子，让张朝林当上了祖父。
But those dreams of stability came to an abrupt end this year under a pleasant August sun. A group of young men, barely old enough to drive, assaulted Mr. Zhang, who was 49, as he walked in Aubervilliers with two friends he had known since childhood.
然而，张朝林安居乐业的梦想，却在一个阳光宜人的八月天里破灭了。那天，49岁的张朝林和两个他儿时就认识的老友正走在奥贝维埃街头，一群刚够得上开车年龄的年轻人动手打了他。
Shouting racist slurs, the youths took a small bag from one of the men, and savagely beat them, leaving Mr. Zhang and his friends crumpled and bloodied on the sidewalk. The bag contained only candy and cigarettes. Mr. Zhang died five days later.
这群年轻人用种族主义的语言大声怒骂，从张朝林等人身上抢走了一个小包，还狠狠地揍了他们，任由张朝林及其朋友们血迹斑斑地倒在人行道上。被抢走的那个小包里只有糖果和香烟。张朝林在五天后死亡。
The death was the culmination of months, even years, of racial tensions in Paris and its suburbs that intensified this summer, fueled by long-held stereotypes of the Chinese as weak yet unusually successful residents of economically disadvantaged, immigrant-heavy suburbs. Often the tensions stem from rivalries between immigrant groups themselves.
这场命案把巴黎及其郊区的种族关系紧张问题推到了顶点，这个已经积累了好几个月、甚至几年的问题，在今年夏天进一步加剧，给问题火上浇油的原因包括，在这些以移民为主的贫困郊区，长期存在着一种偏见：既华人比较软弱，但比起其他移民族群来，却异常地成功。这种紧张关系通常源于不同移民族群之间的竞争。
While the death surprised few Franco-Asians, it did reveal a volatile racial landscape in France that is far more complex than the country’s French majority and large Muslim minority, whose struggle for integration has received the most attention.
虽然张朝林的死并未让大多数亚裔法国人吃惊，但这个案子确实揭示了法国极不稳定的种族问题，比法国多数人口与其较大的穆斯林少数民族之间的问题复杂得多，后者融入主流社会的难度已受到很多关注。
In eary September, 60,000 demonstators of Chinese and Asian origin marched in Paris to denounce violence and discrimination and to press the government for more vigorous action to ensure the safety of all French citizens, no matter their race. They waved French flags, wore T-shirts emblazoned with the tricolor, and sang La Marseillaise.
9月初， 6万名华裔及亚裔民众走上巴黎街头游行，谴责暴力与歧视行为，并向政府施压，让其采取更有力的措施来保障所有法国公民的安全，不论公民属于哪个民族。抗议民众挥舞着法国国旗、穿着印有红白蓝三色的体恤衫，还唱着法国国歌《马赛曲》。
Racial discrimination and violence, many in the community lament, is problem that has long defied remedy. Six years ago, people of Chinese origin similarly protested racial violence aimed at them in Paris’s Belleville neighborhood, in the 10th Arrondisement, an area with a large Chinese community.
许多亚裔法国人对长期得不到解决的种族歧视与暴力问题表示失望。 6年前，位于巴黎市10区的贝尔维尔一带就曾发生过多起针对亚裔的种族暴力袭击，当地的华裔民众也曾发起过类似抗议活动。贝尔维尔是许多华裔法国人的聚居地。
“In 2010 there were lots of thefts and beatings,” said Frédéric Zhou, Zhang’s former landlord, who recounted his own instances of verbal abuse and physical threats. “We protested and the authorities said they would try to stop these attacks. But in six years it’s gotten worse and now there’s a death.
“2010年，那里发生过很多偷窃和殴打事件，”张朝林以前的房东费德里克‧周(Frédéric Zhou)说。他也细数了自己遭受过的恶语攻击和肢体威胁。“我们抗议过了，当局也说过会设法制止这些攻击。但6年过去了，情况却变得更糟，现在还死了人了。”
“One death isn’t nothing,” he added. “We’re not dogs.”
“死了一个人，可不是小事，”周先生又说。“人不是狗。”
While conditions in Belleville did improve, violence against people ofAsian descent in some other areas appears to have increased. Mr. Zhang’s death followed a steady uptick of violence in Aubervilliers, residents say.
虽然贝尔维尔的情况确实有所改善，但针对华裔与亚裔的暴力案件似乎在其他地区有所增加。奥贝维埃市的居民表示，张朝林的死，是当地暴力事件越演越烈的后果。
Joelle Huy, the president of the owners’ cooperative of La Résidence du Parc, a majority Chinese housing complex in La Courneuve, a suburb adjacent to Aubervilliers, described an attack on the night of July 13.
花园屯业主委员会副主席乔艾儿‧胡(Joelle Huy)也讲述了一件7月13日晚间发生的攻击事件。花园屯 (La Résidence du Parc)是紧挨着奥贝维埃市的新庭市(La Courneuve)的一个以华裔为主的住宅小区。
“A group of about ten kids started shooting fireworks at our cars,” she recalled. Residents of the housing complex chased the youths away and called the police. “When the police arrived,” Ms. Huy said, “we told them that this couldn’t go on, and they told us it was nothing.”
“有一群孩子，大概有十来个，开始朝我们的汽车射烟火，”胡女士回忆道。小区住户把这些青少年赶走了，还打电话叫了警察。胡女士说，“警察来到后，我们对他们说，这种事情不能再继续下去了，但警察却说，这不算什么事儿。”
A few minutes after the police left, the youths emerged from the darkness with pistols. “They were firing in all directions,” Ms. Huy said, still clearly shocked. “Four people were wounded by bullets.”
警察离开后没几分钟，这群青少年从黑暗中再次出现，这次还带着手枪。“他们朝着各个方向乱开枪，”胡女士提及此事时显然心有余悸。“有4个人中弹受了伤。”
During the first seven months of 2016, the police recorded 105 violent thefts targeting Aubervilliers’s residents of Chinese origin, who number 3,000 in a town of more than 77,000 inhabitants. Thereported assaults were probably only a fraction of the actual total, because many in the community feel it is useless to go to the police.
奥贝维埃市居民超过7.7万，其中3千人是华裔。仅在2016年的头7个月里，警方就记录了105件针对该市华裔居民的暴力抢劫案。这些有记录的袭击案可能只占实际案子数量的一小部分，因为很多人觉得找警察也没用。
“To file a complaint, it takes three hours, the police say they don’t understand the Chinese people, or they say they’re not taking complaints,” said Ms. Huy, who blames government indifference as much as the perpetrators for the violence. “What’s the point? You try to file a complaint, you are rejected.”
“光是报案就需要3个小时，警察说他们无法跟华人沟通，或是说他们不受理报案。”胡女士说。他指责暴力问题的制造者，也谴责政府对这个问题漠不关心。“干嘛去报案呢？你上门想报案却碰了一鼻子灰。”
The attack at La Courneuve prompted such concern that Chinese in France wrote to the Interior Ministry warning that the situation was growing dire.
新庭市发生的袭击事件引起人们极大的担忧，促使在法华人致函法国内政部，警告政府情况正在变得越来越糟。
“In the letter, they said, ‘what will it take for the government to react?” recounted Tamara Lui, the president of the Chinese of France-French of China Association. “‘Does someone need to die?’”
“他们在信里写道：‘什么事情才能让政府采取行动呢？’”巴黎华人社团雅集社(Chiniese of France-French of China Association)的社长雷丹宇(Tamara Lui)忆道。“‘一定要死人不可吗？’”
A few weeks later, Mr. Zhang did.
几周后，张朝林死了。
The threat has grown so bad, and the lack of government response so enraging, that some members of the Chinese community have taken their security into their own hands.
事态变得如此凶险，政府的毫无反应令人如此愤怒难当，以至于华人社区里有些人开始自己采取保安行动。
“They organize groups that can accompany people when they leave their homes,” said Sun Lay Tan, a municipal councilor in Mitry-Mory, a suburb of Paris, and the author of a Change.org petition denouncing anti-Asian violence that garnered more than 15,000 signatures. “It’s going to continue because when they call the police, they don’t come.”
“他们组织了小队，在人们出门时陪伴他们。”巴黎东北郊的米堤─莫西市市政顾问林春来(Sun Lay Tan)说；林春来也是Change.org网站上发的请愿书作者，该请愿书谴责针对亚裔族群的暴力行为，已有逾1.5万人在上面签了名。“这种做法会持续下去，因为他们打电话叫警察时，警察不来。”
Sabrina Goldman, the vice president of the International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism, said the lack of response had engendered “a sense of fatalism” among Chinese. But she also noted that since Mr. Zhang’s death, the problem of anti-Asian violence had gained more recognition. “Racism against the Chinese and Asian communities has long been ignored, and now society is waking up to its existence,” she said.
莎宾娜‧戈德曼(Sabrina Goldman)是国际反种族歧视暨反犹太歧视联盟(International League Against Racism and Anti-Semitism)的副主席，她表示，政府的不闻不问加剧了华人社区中的“宿命感”。不过她也指出，自从张朝林死后，针对亚裔族群的暴力事件已受到更多的关注。“针对华裔与亚裔族群的歧视长期以被忽视，现在社会上开始意识到这个问题的存在，”戈德曼说。
In September, a court in Bobigny, another Paris suburb, sentenced three young men implicated in the violent mugging of a Chinese family, and for the first time, recognized the crime’s racially motivated character as an “aggravating circumstance.”
今年9月，位于巴黎郊区柏比尼市的一家法庭对三名年轻男子进行了有罪宣判。他们涉及一起针对一个华人家庭的暴力抢劫案，法庭还首次提到该案犯案动机中的种族因素，作出了“从重量刑”的判决。
The same month, former Prime Minister Alain Juppé, a candidate in the 2017 presidential election, visited Aubervilliers and urged Franco-Chinese associations to keep hope for the possibility of “harmony between communities.”
法国前总理暨2017年总统选举候选人阿兰‧朱佩(Alain Juppé)也在9月前往奥贝维埃，并呼吁民间法华团体对“不同社群和谐共处”的可能性保持希望。
Bernard Cazeneuve, the Minister of the Interior, has promised to send police reinforcements to Aubervilliers, and Meriem Derkaoui, the mayor of Aubervilliers, pledged to expand video surveillance.
法国内政部长伯纳德·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)已承诺向奥贝维埃加派警力，奥贝维埃市长玛丽安‧戴尔卡维(Meriem Derkaoui)则誓言要扩大监视摄像机的使用。
A few months before Mr. Zhang was killed, the Aubervilliers Police Department hired a part-time translator to assist with the filing of complaints on a biweekly basis in an effort to improve relations with residents of Chinese origin.
张朝林被杀害的数月前，奥贝维埃市警察局已开始雇用一名隔周到勤的兼职翻译员，以协助处理报案事宜。警方希望此举能够改善他们与华裔居民的关系。
Still, some, including the CGT Police Ile de France — the greater Paris region’s branch of the national police union — say more police officers cannot solve the problem.
然而，包括法国警察工会大巴黎地区分会(CGT Police Ile de France)在内的部分人士表示，加派警力并不能解决问题。
“We need a police force that is closer to the local population, one that can anticipate problems in the community,” Axel Ronde, the group’s general secretary, said. “We’ve abandoned this kind of work over the years, so it’s not going to change overnight.”
“我们需要与当地居民关系更密切的警力，他们能预见社区中的问题，”警察工会大巴黎地区分会秘书长阿克塞‧洪德(Axel Ronde)表示。“我们放弃这类工作已经好几年了，所以情况不会在一夜之间改变。”
Others say the solution lies in building better understanding between citizens themselves. “I think we need to create opportunities for mediation and intercommunity exchanges,” said Mr. Sun, the municipal councillor. “I don’t expect much from the state.”
其他人则表示，种族问题的解决有赖于在民间建立更深的了解。“我认为，我们需要创造让不同族群相互交流和调解的机会，”米堤─莫西市市政顾问林春来说。 “我对政府不抱太大期望。”