SAN FRANCISCO — Investors were already salivating over the initial stock offering of Alibaba Group, the giant Chinese e-commerce company. On Tuesday, they got a glimpse of Alibaba’s tremendous growth that is sure to whet their appetite even more.
旧金山——投资者本来就已经对中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴集团的首次公开募股(IPO)垂涎三尺，本周二透露的阿里巴巴的巨大增长数字，必定会进一步让他们胃口大开。
Alibaba made $1.4 billion in profit for its fourth quarter, more than double the amount it made during the same period a year earlier. Revenue jumped 66 percent, to nearly $3.1 billion.
阿里巴巴第四季度的利润达到14亿美元（约合87亿元人民币），较上年同期增长逾一倍。营收接近31亿美元，涨幅为66%。
The peek inside the private Chinese company came courtesy of Yahoo, which owns 24 percent of Alibaba and must disclose some of its financial data as part of its own quarterly reports. But Alibaba will soon provide much more information about its business, which dominates consumer online commerce in China in a way that Amazon and eBay could only dream of in the United States. It plans to file paperwork as early as next week for an initial public offering of stock on an American exchange.
披露阿里巴巴这些信息的是雅虎，它拥有这家中国私营企业24%的股权，因此必须在自己的季度财报中披露它的一些财务数据。不过，阿里巴巴很快就会提供远远更多的有关其业务的信息；该公司在中国消费者网上电子商务中占据的龙头地位，是亚马逊(Amazon)和eBay在美国难以企及的。阿里巴巴计划最早于下周向一家美国证交所提交IPO所需的书面材料。
The sale could be the largest I.P.O. in American history if the company’s valuation reaches $200 billion, which some of the most optimistic analysts are suggesting. The offering is not expected to occur for at least a couple of months after the filing.
如果依照一些非常乐观的分析师的看法，该公司的估值达到2000亿美元，那么这将有望成为美国历史上最大的一次IPO。IPO可能至少要等到材料提交几个月之后才开始。
For years, the only way to buy a piece of Alibaba’s growth story has been to buy Yahoo stock, which investors were snapping up on Tuesday. Yahoo’s shares rose to $36.50, up 6.7 percent, in after-hours trading after it released the Alibaba numbers along with its own results.
多年以来，人们从阿里巴巴的增长势头中分得一杯羹的唯一途径就是购买雅虎股票，本周二，投资者纷纷抢购雅虎股票。在发布了阿里巴巴的数据及自己的业绩后，雅虎股价在盘后交易中涨至36.50美元，涨幅达6.7%。
Yahoo, which was reporting its first-quarter results, said that revenue and profit growth were flat, a slight improvement from previous quarters. However, from the perspective of investors, those figures were basically a footnote to the Internet portal’s investments in Alibaba and Yahoo Japan.
在其第一季度财报中，雅虎表示，它的收入和利润增速平平，较前几个季度略有好转。但是从投资者的角度来看，相较于雅虎在阿里巴巴和雅虎日本(Yahoo Japan)的投资，这家互联网门户网站的这些业绩数字基本上无关紧要。
“You can be a relative optimist like me about the core business and attribute $7 or $8 to it,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst with Pivotal Research. “But you can make an argument that the entirety of the value is Alibaba.”
“如果你像我这样，对雅虎核心业务比较乐观，就会觉得股价中有7、8美元归功于它。”Pivotal Research的分析师布赖恩·威泽(Brian Wieser)说，“但是你也可以说，它的全部价值都在于阿里巴巴。”
Despite turnaround efforts by its chief executive, Marissa Mayer, who was appointed nearly two years ago, Yahoo has continued to report lackluster financial results for its main business, which is selling search and display advertising to brands eager to reach visitors to the company’s sports, news, mail and other content pages.
尽管约两年前上任的雅虎首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)开展了扭亏行动，但雅虎主营业务的财务业绩仍然乏善可陈。该公司的主营业务是为一些品牌提供展示广告和在线搜索服务，这些品牌希望吸引雅虎体育、新闻、邮箱和其他内容网页的访问者。
Ms. Mayer initially focused on creating new products and regaining lost user traffic, but largely ignored advertising, the company’s principal source of revenue.
梅耶尔上任之初关注推出新产品、重新吸引失去的用户流量，但却在很大程度上忽略了该公司的主要收入来源：广告业务。
She has vowed to make advertising a priority this year, however, and the company showed some modest progress on that front in the first quarter. Revenue from display advertising grew 2 percent from the year-ago quarter, halting a long downward slide. Search ad revenue grew 9 percent.
不过她保证今年要把广告作为优先要务，该公司第一季度也在这方面取得了小幅进展。展示广告营收较去年同期增长了2%，终结了长期以来的下滑。搜索广告营收同比增长9%。
But in the hottest areas of Internet advertising — mobile, video and in-stream ads — Yahoo’s efforts so far are still nascent. “They are not material to our overall results,” Ms. Mayer said.
但在互联网广告最热门的领域——移动、视频和流媒广告——雅虎至今都还处在起步阶段。“对于我们的整体业绩来说，它们贡献很小。”梅耶尔说。
Still, the stock has more than doubled since she was named to the job in July 2012, a rise that has been tempered only slightly in recent weeks as investors have widely pulled back from Internet stocks.
尽管如此，自从她2012年7月上任以来，雅虎股价已经翻了一倍多，最近几周投资者纷纷从网络股撤离，雅虎股价才略微走低。
Most analysts attribute those gains to Alibaba’s sizzling performance.
多数分析师把雅虎股价的上涨归功于阿里巴巴的惊人业绩。
Under terms of its investment agreement with the Chinese company, Yahoo must sell about 40 percent of its stake if Alibaba goes public.
根据雅虎与阿里巴巴的投资协议条款，如果阿里巴巴上市，雅虎必须出售其股份的约40%。
Depending on the valuation of Alibaba, which many analysts predict could range from $100 billion to $200 billion, Yahoo would reap at least $10 billion before taxes.
很多分析师预测，阿里巴巴的估值区间在1000亿到2000亿美元，那么雅虎至少可以在税前入账100亿美元。
Alibaba’s fourth-quarter results might push the valuation toward the higher end of the range.
阿里巴巴第四季度的业绩可能会把其估值推升到1000亿到2000亿美元区间的较高一端。
Some on Wall Street had worried that its enormous growth had begun to slow when it reported only a 51 percent gain in third-quarter revenue compared with figures in the period a year earlier. But Alibaba’s fourth-quarter earnings were helped by a few big shopping days, particularly Nov. 11 — known as Singles Day, China’s twist on Valentine’s Day and one of the busiest days for online shopping. Alibaba disclosed last year that its two main e-commerce platforms, Taobao and Tmall, sold roughly $5.75 billion worth of merchandise on Singles Day last year, an 80 percent gain from 2012.
华尔街有些人曾担心，阿里巴巴巨大的增长势头已经开始放缓，因为该公司去年第三季度营收较上年同期相比只增长了51%。但是几个大的购物节帮助推高了阿里巴巴第四季度的业绩，尤其是11月11日——称为“光棍节”，是中国人对情人节加以改动后的创作，也是网络购物最火爆的日子之一。阿里巴巴去年透露，它旗下的两大电子商务平台——淘宝和天猫——在2013年光棍节销售了大约57.5亿美元的商品，较2012年增长80%。
“These were pretty spectacular results, and they should assuage any fears around a slowdown,” said Ben Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Securities who says he expects Alibaba’s valuation to be at least $160 billion. “It’s a reminder of what kind of growth story this is.”
“这些数字相当惊人，应该可以化解人们对该公司增速放缓的任何担忧，”美国麦格理证券集团(Macquarie Securities)分析师本·沙克特(Ben Schachter)表示，他预计阿里巴巴的估值至少为1600亿美元。“它们显示了阿里巴巴的增长实力。”
That growth has offered Ms. Mayer some necessary cover for her turnaround project, which remains a work in progress.
这样的增长给梅耶尔的扭亏行动提供了一些必要的掩护。她的扭亏行动尚未取得成功。
For the first quarter, Yahoo reported net income of $312 million, or 29 cents a share, on revenue of $1.13 billion. In the same quarter a year ago, it reported net income of $390 million, or 35 cents a share, on $1.14 billion in revenue.
今年第一季度，​​雅虎净收入为3.12亿美元，合每股29美分，营收为11.3亿美元。去年第一季度，该公司净收入为3.9亿美元，合每股35美分，营收为11.4亿美元。
Excluding one-time items and expenses for stock compensation, the company reported a profit of 38 cents a share in the first quarter, the same as a year ago. That essentially matched analysts’ expectations for 37 cents a share in profits on revenue of $1.08 billion.
除去一次性项目和用于股票报酬的花费，该公司今年第一季度盈利合每股38美分，跟一年前相同。这跟分析师的预期基本上吻合。分析师预期它的利润为每股37美分，营收为10.8亿美元。
Eventually, though, Yahoo’s core business will matter to investors once again. To return the company to its former heights, Ms. Mayer has begun a series of initiatives to rebuild the company’s advertising business.
但是对于投资者来说，雅虎的核心业务终将再次变得重要。为了雅虎能重回昔日高点，梅耶尔已经开始采取一系列措施，来重新打造该公司的广告业务。
In January, the company revamped its technology and food sites, abandoning Yahoo’s traditional hodgepodge of text and links in favor of large, visually rich panels reminiscent of magazines. Ms. Mayer is expected to announce similar digital magazines in categories like travel, entertainment and beauty in the coming weeks.
今年1月，该公司对其科技和美食站点进行了改版，放弃了它历来使用的大小混杂的文本和链接风格，转而改用大的、视觉效果丰富的、具有杂志风格的版面。在未来几周内，梅耶尔可能会在旅游、娱乐和美容栏目推出类似的数字杂志。
Yahoo is also trying to become a bigger player in online video, developing new shows for its digital magazines and talking to Hollywood about original entertainment content.
雅虎还通过为数字杂志制作新节目，跟好莱坞商谈原创娱乐内容等方式，努力在网络视频业务中扩大地盘。
Advertisers welcome that spirit of experimentation, said Bob Rupczynski, vice president for media, data and customer relationship management at Kraft Foods Group.
广告客户欢迎雅虎的这种实验精神，卡夫食品集团(Kraft Foods Group)负责媒体、数据和客户关系管理的副总裁鲍勃·拉普津斯基(Bob Rupczynski)说。
In March, Kraft Singles cheese was the first brand to use Yahoo’s new motion ad format, in which the image in the ad appears to be moving. When Yahoo users went to their login page, they saw an image of a grilled-cheese sandwich with steam wafting from it.
今年3月，卡夫芝士片(Kraft Singles)率先使用雅虎新推出的动感广告(motion ad)形式，在这种广告中，图像看上去犹如在动。雅虎用户进入登录页面时，会看到一张烤奶酪三明治飘着蒸汽的图片。
Mr. Rupczynski said that the motion helped the ad stand out, and that Kraft intended to try other new Yahoo ad formats, such as sponsored articles on Yahoo Food. “We’re excited about the platforms we’re testing out with them,” he said.
拉普津斯基表示，这种动感形式使得广告脱颖而出，卡夫公司还打算尝试雅虎的其他新型广告形式，比如雅虎美食的赞助文章等。“我们正在尝试的这些雅虎平台令人感到兴奋，”他说。