Beginning in 2011, the market for technology initial public offerings exploded with a number of blockbuster offerings — but went quiet soon after Facebook’s $16 billion stock sale last year.
从2011年开始，若干重量级科技公司纷纷上市，首次公开募股(IPO)市场出现了井喷——但自从Facebook去年进行了一场筹资规模高达160亿美元的IPO以来，这个市场便陷入了沉寂。
Now investors and deal makers are hoping that Twitter’s coming stock sale will help the once-soaring technology sector take flight again.
投资者和交易撮合者们期待的是，即将到来的Twitter股票上市，可以帮助一度高歌猛进的科技板块重振雄风。
Analysts have estimated that Twitter, the social network, could be valued at more than $10 billion and raise hundreds of millions of dollars, making it the biggest technology I.P.O. since Facebook. That would be manna to a landscape that has been a bit barren lately, although some changes in the technology sector are likely to temper any broad expansion of new stock sales.
据分析人士估计，社交网络服务Twitter有可能获得超过100亿美元的估值，并募集到数亿美元资金，这一IPO在规模上将创下自Facebook去年上市以来的科技行业之最。对于景象有点荒芜的科技板块而言，这不啻为一场甘霖，不过该板块的某些变化可能会令新股上市的数量难以出现激增。
About 22 technology deals have priced in 2013, about 17 percent of all I.P.O.’s this year, according to data from Renaissance Capital. That is the lowest percentage of total initial stock sales since 2008, when the industry represented just 10 percent of all deals. By contrast, technology offerings made up 35 percent of new stock sales in 2011 and 30 percent last year.
根据复兴资本公司(Renaissance Capital)的数据，2013年到目前为止，共有22家科技企业挂牌上市，在本年度现有的IPO交易中占比17%。自从科技板块在整个IPO市场所占的份额于2008年创下10%的低点以来，这是占比最低的一次。相比之下，在2011年，科技企业上市数量占到了IPO总量的35%，2012年则达到30%。
The trend runs counter to an overall increase in the number of offerings: 132 I.P.O.’s priced this year, up 45 percent from a year ago. Renaissance Capital predicts at least 200 companies will go public by Dec. 31, making 2013 the busiest year for new stock sales since the financial crisis.
与这一趋势相悖的是，IPO数量整体出现提高：今年IPO总数已经达到132笔，比去年同期高出45%。复兴资本预测，截至12月31日，至少会有200家公司上市，从而让2013年成为金融危机以来新股发售最频繁的年份。
Some of that decline for technology deals occurred in the wake of Facebook’s botched offering, which was marred by technical errors that dented the overall market for I.P.O.’s for weeks. And turmoil in the markets this summer, including a drop of nearly 3 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index in June, were faulted for a few stock sales that fell short of expectations.
科技行业IPO数量的下滑，在某种程度上是由Facebook那场蹩脚的IPO引起的，它被技术失误搅得一团糟，让整个IPO市场遭遇了好几个星期的低潮。而今年夏天的市场动荡，包括标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor’s 500)在6月份下挫近3%，则被认为是一些新股上市后表现不如预期的原因所在。
Yet businesses can also afford to be more patient, biding their time before becoming public companies.
不过，一些企业也有条件更加耐心地静待上市时机。
“I wouldn’t characterize it as companies not needing to go public, but they don’t feel a rush to go public,” said Cully Davis, the head of technology initial public offerings at Credit Suisse.
“我不会说这些公司不需要上市，但它们的确不急于上市，”在瑞信(Credit Suisse)负责科技板块IPO业务的库里·戴维斯(Cully Davis)说。
The quieting of the technology space is tied in part to changes in the business landscape. One is the passage last year of the JOBS Act, which allows companies with less than $1 billion in revenue to begin the I.P.O. process in secret. That has helped mask the number of would-be debutantes exploring stock offerings.
科技板块之所以变得死气沉沉，部分是因为商业环境的改变。其中一个变化是：《提振美国创业公司法案》(JOBS Act)去年得以通过，它允许营收低于10亿美元的公司秘密启动IPO程序。这样一来，正着手公开发售股票的潜在上市公司在数量上就难以统计了。
Nearly every company that qualifies for the JOBS Act has taken advantage, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. Though it announced its offering plans in a 135-character posting last Thursday, Twitter has availed itself of the law to avoid actually disclosing any specific financial information for now.Another factor is that companies have been weighing their options more cautiously. Would-be I.P.O. candidates have other ways to raise money these days, including private stock sales that let shareholders divest themselves of their holdings.
普华永道(PricewaterhouseCoopers)称，几乎每家符合资格的公司都利用了《提振美国创业公司法案》的规定。尽管Twitter周四以一条长度为135个字符的消息，宣布了自己的IPO计划，但它却充分利用了这个法案，现在并未披露任何确切的财务信息。另外一个因素是，企业在权衡自己的选择时变得更加谨慎了。潜在的IPO申请者如今也可以通过其他渠道募集资金，其中就包括私下出售股份，采用这一方式时，股东可以减持自己的股份。
“Small companies, particularly in the technology area, are deciding that being an independent public company is not the profit-maximizing strategy,” said Jay R. Ritter, a professor of finance at the University of Florida in Gainesville who studies initial public offerings.
杰伊·R·里特尔(Jay R. Ritter)说，“小公司——尤其是科技领域的小公司得出的结论是，变成独立的上市公司并不是利益最大化的战略。”里特尔在位于盖恩斯维尔的佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)担任金融学教授，从事IPO研究。
For instance, SurveyMonkey raised $444 million late last year from an array of investment firms, in a move that let employees and early investors cash out. It also collected $350 million in new debt financing lined up by JPMorgan Chase.
以SurveyMonkey公司为例。去年，它从一系列投资公司手中募集到了4.44亿美元资金，并让员工和早期投资者套现离场。该公司还通过摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)为其安排的债务融资，另外筹措到了3.5亿美元资金。
For all the attractions of staying private, many technology companies still view an initial public offering as a milestone, serving as a branding event and an avenue for further growth.
虽然继续作为私有公司经营有很大的吸引力，但许多科技公司依然把IPO视为一个里程碑：它是一桩可以提升品牌形象的大事件，也是推动进一步增长的途径。
Wall Street expects offerings from a more companies across all areas of the industry. So far, many have hailed from a few sectors, including enterprise software, advertising technology and communications.
华尔街预期，会有更多来自科技行业各个领域的公司进行IPO。到目前为止，许多公司都来自企业软件、广告技术、通信等少数几个领域。
Consumer-focused businesses, which dominated headlines in 2011 and 2012, have made up a small but growing percentage.
关注于消费者的公司曾在2011年和2012年屡见报端。今年这些企业所占的比例虽然很小，但也正在增长。
Besides Twitter, companies that are on deck for a public offering in the next few months include Chegg, a start-up that rents textbooks to students; FireEye, a cybersecurity company; and Covisint, a cloud computing services provider.
除了Twitter，准备在未来几个月里上市的公司还包括：向学生出租课本的初创企业Chegg，网络安全公司FireEye，以及云计算服务提供商Covisint。
Analysts and deal makers say investors remain hungry for new offerings despite the occasional big misstep, like those of Groupon and Zynga, both still well below their debut prices.
分析人士和交易撮合者认为，投资者对新股上市充满渴望，尽管不时会有重大失误的案例，比如Groupon和 Zynga，这两家公司的股价目前仍然低于发行价。
The most successful companies, these people say, combine high growth rates with a clear map to profitability — an actual profit is optional, at least at first — and a defensible business plan.Tableau Software, a maker of business intelligence software, has more than doubled its stock price since going public in late May, closing on Friday at $72.70. And stock of Marketo, a cloud-based marketing company, has surged from an I.P.O. price of $13 a share to $34.42 as of Friday.
这些人士称，最成功的企业要将高增长率、清晰的盈利模式（实际盈利与否并不重要，至少初期如此），以及合理的商业计划集于一身。商业智能软件开发企业Tableau Software自5月下旬上市以来，股价已经涨了一倍多，周五收盘价为72.7美元。基于云计算的营销公司Marketo，IPO发行价为每股13美元，截至周五，其股价已经蹿升至34.42美元。
The model for successful offerings is LinkedIn, the social network whose 2011 market debut enjoyed a pop that others have long envied. LinkedIn excited investors with promises of strong profit and revenue growth and teased them by selling just 8 percent of its total shares, increasing demand.
LinkedIn是成功上市的典范，这家公司2011年上市时股价的涨势让其他公司羡慕不已。LinkedIn承诺，其利润和营收将出现强劲增长，这让投资者兴奋；此外，LinkedIn公开发售的股份仅占总股本的8%，因而吸引了投资者，提高了需求。
Since then, it has reported steadily climbing revenue, and has been rewarded with a valuation that has climbed to more than $32 billion from $4.3 billion.
从那时起，该公司的营收一直稳步增长，而其估值也从320亿美元上升到了430亿美元。
“There’s nothing like a successful business model,” Professor Ritter said.
里特尔教授说，“有个成功的商业模式就再好不过了。”