The next big thing is here, as Samsung Electronics likes to say in its ads. But fewer people appear to be buying it.
就像三星电子(Samsung Electronics)在自己的广告中说的那样，下一款神器来了。但买这款神器的人似乎变少了。
Samsung, which is based in South Korea, on Tuesday published a financial earnings preview that forecast a profit of about 7.2 trillion won, or $7.1 billion, for the three months that ended in June.
周二，总部位于韩国的三星公布了一份业绩预报，报告预测公司在6月结束的上一季度的利润为7.2万亿韩元（71亿美元），约合441亿元人民币。
While that is still a substantial chunk of money, the overall profit represents a decline of 24 percent from the same period a year ago. The profit forecast also missed analysts’ expectations of about 8 trillion won.
这依然是一大笔钱，但与去年同期相比，公司总利润下跌了24%。这一利润预测数字也低于分析人士预期的8万亿韩元。
Samsung, in a rare move, issued a lengthy statement explaining the disappointing forecast. It blamed a slowdown in growth of the overall smartphone market as well as increased competition in China and in some European markets.
三星罕见地发表了一份长篇声明，对令人失望的预测数据进行了解释。该公司将责任推向了智能手机市场增长整体放缓，以及中国和部分欧洲市场竞争加剧。
The company noted that smartphone sales were typically soft in the second quarter in China, the largest smartphone market in the world. But it also said its tablet sales were “sluggish” because people typically upgraded tablets more slowly than they did smartphones. It said that higher shipments of big-screen smartphones cannibalized demand for smaller tablets.
该公司指出，在全球最大的智能手机市场中国，二季度的智能手机销量非常疲软。但三星也表示，旗下平板电脑销量“疲软”是因为人们升级平板电脑的速度通常比升级智能手机的速度慢。该公司称，大屏智能手机的出货量增加，侵蚀了对较小的平板电脑的需求。
Samsung also attributed the disappointing profit to the Korean currency’s appreciation against the dollar, euro and other emerging-market currencies.
三星还将利润不如人意归咎于韩元对美元、欧元以及其他新兴市场货币的升值。
In order to bolster sales of smartphones over the quarter, Samsung said, it had to increase spending on marketing promotions, which also ate into its profit. For example, in one promotion offered by Verizon Wireless, consumers could buy a Galaxy S5 smartphone and get another phone free.
三星表示，为了刺激上一季度的智能手机销量，公司增加了在市场推广方面的开支，这也蚕食了公司的利润。比如，在威瑞森无线(Verizon Wireless)开展的一项促销活动中，消费者购买一部Galaxy S5智能手机便可免费再获得一部手机。
These issues are not unique to Samsung. Growth of the overall smartphone market has slowed over the last year, largely because many people who want a smartphone already have one. Smartphones with nice screens and high-quality cameras are commonplace, and people may be feeling less compelled to upgrade as frequently, analysts say.
这些问题并非三星特有。去年，智能手机市场的增长整体放缓，主要是因为许多想要一部智能手机的人都已经如愿以偿。分析人士称，拥有出色的屏幕和高质量摄像头的智能手机处处皆是，同时人们可能觉得不必频繁升级。