A question unimaginable in most major American cities is utterly commonplace in this one: If you suddenly found yourself gravely ill, injured or even shot, would you call 911?
在美国多数大城市里不能想象的一个问题，在这里却再平常不过：如果你突发重病、受伤乃至被枪击，会不会拨911？
Many people here say the answer is no. Some laugh at the odds of an ambulance appearing promptly, if ever. In Detroit, people map out alternative plans instead, enlisting a relative or a friend.
许多底特律人表示，他们的答案是不会。一些人对救护车迅速到来的可能性不以为然，毕竟能不能来都是问题。在底特律，人们另有打算，那就是找亲戚或朋友帮忙。
As officials negotiate urgently with creditors and unions in a last-ditch effort to spare Detroit from plunging into the largest municipal bankruptcy in the nation’s history, residents say the city has worse problems than its estimated $18 billion debt.
本地官员正与债权人和工会进行紧急谈判，为使底特律避免出现美国历史上最大的市政破产而尽最后的努力。不过本地居民称，这里还有比其约180亿美元（约合1100亿元人民币）的债务更严重的问题。
“The city is past being a city now; it’s gone,” said Kendrick Benguche, whose family lives on a block with a single streetlight, just down from a vacant firehouse that sits beside a burned-out home. The Detroit police’s average response time to calls for the highest-priority crimes this year was 58 minutes, officials now overseeing the city say. The department’s recent rate of solving cases was 8.7 percent, far lower, the officials acknowledge, than clearance rates in cities like Pittsburgh, Milwaukee and St. Louis.
“底特律已经不是座城市了，它已经消失了，”肯德里克·邦居什(Kendrick Benguche)说。他们一家所在的街区只有一盏路灯，不远处有一个空荡荡的消防站，隔壁就是一栋烧成废墟的房屋。目前管理底特律的官员称，接到最紧急的罪案报警电话后，底特律今年的平均出警时间是58分钟。警察部门近期的破案率为8.7%，官方承认，这一数据远低于匹兹堡、密尔沃基和圣路易斯等地的破案率。
“I guess I’ll be glad if someone else takes over and other people run this thing,” Mr. Benguche said. “The way I look at it, the city is already bankrupt.”
邦居什说，“我想，如果有什么其他人接手管理这里的话，我会挺高兴的。照我看来，底特律已经破产了。”
Kevyn D. Orr, the state-appointed emergency financial manager for Detroit, has said that the chances of filing for bankruptcy, a possibility that could be decided as early as this month, stand at 50-50. On Wednesday, Mr. Orr is expected to lead 40 representatives of Detroit’s creditors on a bus tour of the city and its blight to let the bleak images of empty lots and shuttered firehouses make the argument that creditors should accept pennies on the dollars owed.
受州政府指派负责底特律应急财务管理的凯文·D·奥尔(Kevyn D. Orr)表示，申请破产的几率为50%，而相关决定可能最早本月就会做出。本周三，奥尔计划带领40人的底特律债权人代表团乘坐大巴参观市区，以目睹其惨状，并让大片的空地和大门紧闭的消防站等萧条景象来劝说债权人，他们应当免除大部分的债务。
The prospect of a bankruptcy filing — a move that is extremely rare for cities and one that has never happened to an American city as populous as Detroit, with about 700,000 people — worries some residents. They say they fear that bankruptcy would add more stigma to a city that has contracted alarmingly in the decades since it was the nation’s fourth largest, starting in the 1920s, and that it might worsen already bare-bones services.
申请破产的前景让一些居民忧心忡忡。城市申请破产的情况极其罕见，像人口约70万的底特律这样的美国大城市更是从未采取此类行动。上世纪20时代后，底特律曾是美国第四大城市，但它在最近数十年里出现萎缩，让人心悸。居民们称，他们担心破产会进一步加深该市的耻辱，并让已经所剩无几的公共服务更加恶化。
The notion that assets like Coleman A. Young International Airport, Belle Isle Park and the collections of the Detroit Institute of Arts might be sold — either in a formal bankruptcy proceeding or in a huge city reorganization outside of the court system — has fueled outrage.
科尔曼·A·扬国际机场(Coleman A. Young International Airport)、贝尔岛公园(Belle Isle Park)和底特律艺术学院(Detroit Institute of Arts)的藏品可能被出售的想法激起了愤怒，不管是出于正式的破产程序，还是法律体系外的大型市政重组。
“Bankruptcy scares me,” said LaTanya Boyce, a nurse practitioner. She urges her patients to treat health concerns before they become acute because, she said, “if they find themselves calling 911, it’s probably too late.”
执业护士拉塔尼娅·博伊斯(LaTanya Boyce)说，“破产吓到了我。”她敦促病人在病重前处理健康问题，因为“如果他们发现自己要打911，很可能已经太迟了”。
But as with many here who have wrestled with the practical realities of living in this city, Ms. Boyce said she would not mind if some entity other than the city took over the management of Belle Isle, a park whose plan was conceived in the early 1880s by Frederick Law Olmsted. Ms. Boyce goes to the park for exercise, wearing a fanny pack that at times contains a gun — “Do you see any city police here?” — and bemoaning several locked restrooms that have portable toilets planted in front of them.
不过，由于许多底特律人都在为生活在这座城市所带来的现实问题感到头疼，博伊斯表示，她不介意市政府之外的其他实体接管贝尔岛公园。这座公园于19世纪80年代初由弗雷德里克·劳·奥姆斯特德(Frederick Law Olmsted)规划设计。博伊斯常去公园锻炼，随身的腰包里有时会带着一把枪，因为“你看到这里有警员吗？”她还抱怨，卫生间也关闭了，只有前方立着的几个移动厕所。
“I would love to see it leased to the state,” she said of the park. “They’d take better care.”
“我希望它被租给州政府，”她提到公园时这样说。“他们的管理会更好。”
Recently, Mr. Orr indicated that Detroit was getting out of the business of electricity distribution. An independent authority is already planning to take control of the city’s streetlights, 40 percent of which, Mr. Orr’s office said, were not working in recent months. Similar handoffs are being weighed for the water and sewer services, and possibly more.
最近，奥尔指出，底特律政府将会退出电力分配业务。一个独立机构已计划接手该市的路灯管理，奥尔办公室称，已有40%的路灯在最近几个月无法使用。该市正考虑对上下水服务或更多服务采用类似的处理方式。
While many who have been through municipal bankruptcies say such moves often mean more budget cuts to city services, Mr. Orr has called for spending about $1.25 billion over the next 10 years on improving city infrastructure and services, including the police. Last week, James Craig, Mr. Orr’s choice for police chief, arrived to face a city that had seen five chiefs in as many years and had the highest rate of violent crime in 2012 of any city with more than 200,000 residents, according to a report by Mr. Orr.
尽管有很多经历过市政破产的人士称，这些举措意味着用于市政服务的预算会进一步削减，但奥尔呼吁在未来10年支出约12.5亿美元来改善该市的基础设施和服务，包括警察局。上周，奥尔选中的警察局长詹姆斯·克雷格(James Craig)走马上任，他接手的城市五年换了五届警察局长，且根据奥尔的一份报告，该市在2012年的暴力犯罪率高于其他任何一座拥有20万以上人口的美国城市。
“Whatever the solution is — a negotiated plan or a bankruptcy proceeding — the end result is going to be better services,” Bill Nowling, Mr. Orr’s spokesman, said. “This is all about getting Detroit strong, viable and solvent.”
“不管解决方案是什么——是协商解决还是走破产程序——最终结果将是更好的服务，”奥尔的发言人比尔·诺林(Bill Nowling)说。“一切都是为了让底特律变得更强、更稳、更有偿债能力。”
Frank Ponder, 45, who works at a hospital here, said major changes in the city, even bankruptcy, now seem all but certain. “Everybody had all these ideas about saving Detroit, and nobody’s ideas actually worked,” he said. “At a certain point, you have to stop fooling yourself.”
在当地一家医院工作的45岁的弗兰克·庞德(Frank Ponder)说，现在看来，该市发生重大变化，甚至是破产，几乎已成定局。“每个人都有一套拯救底特律的想法，但没有任何想法真正有效，”他说。“到了一定时候，你不能再继续骗自己。”
The East Side house in which Mr. Ponder lives, once owned by his grandmother, is the only one on his block that appears to be occupied. He has been saving money for years in hopes of moving this fall to a suburb, Warren — and he expects to just walk away.
庞德现在住在东区的一座房子里，这座房子是他祖母传下来的，如今似乎是这一片街区唯一有人住的房子。庞德多年来一直在存钱，希望今年秋天能搬到郊区沃伦——他预计自己只能撇下房子走人。
“What can you do?” he said. “Sell it? On that block?”
“你能怎么办？”他说。“把房子卖了？那个街区的房子有人买吗？”
While corporations announced this year that they would donate money to the city in part to lease new emergency vehicles, there have been times in 2013, the authorities acknowledge, when only 10 to 14 of Detroit’s 36 ambulances have actually been in service. Some of the city’s emergency medical service vehicles have as many as 300,000 miles on them, so they tend to break down.
尽管有公司在今年宣称，他们会向市里捐款，一部分用来租用新的急救车，但官方承认，在2013年的某些时期，该市36辆救护车中只有10辆到14辆在用。该市的一些救护车已经跑了30万英里，因此这些车常常会因故障无法上路。
All this helps explain why Mr. Ponder said he, as so many here, would try to get himself to a hospital before seeking help from Detroit.
这些情况都有助于解释，为什么庞德和很多当地人一样，称他会靠自己去医院，而不是向政府求助。
“If you have a heart attack, you’re dead,” he said. “There is no such thing around here as ‘in case of emergency.’ ”
“如果你心肌梗塞，那你就死定了，”他说。“这里没有所谓的‘紧急情况’。”