MOSCOW — There is an election campaign in the city. It is not like most election campaigns: It lacks many typical election-campaign characteristics, and the winner is preordained. But it has already claimed its first casualties: hundreds of illegal immigrants, many from Vietnam, who are being rounded up all over the Russian capital and forced into a cluster of tents erected in the Golyanovo neighborhood on the city’s eastern edge.
莫斯科——这里正在进行的一场竞选，跟大多数竞选都不一样：它缺乏竞选活动的很多典型特征，获胜者已预先决定。但它的第一批受害人已经出现：数以百计的非法移民正在莫斯科各处遭到围捕，被迫住进了莫斯科东部边缘戈利亚诺沃居民区的一个帐篷区。这些非法移民中，有很多来自越南。
The last mayoral election in Moscow was held a decade ago. A year later, President Vladimir Putin canceled the elections of governors and the mayors of Moscow and St. Petersburg; this move was inexplicably billed as a counterterrorism measure. Last year, the government partially restored the system of regional elections as one of a handful of concessions to the protest movement.
莫斯科上一次举行市长选举是在十年前。一年后，俄罗斯总统普京取消了莫斯科和圣彼得堡的州长和市长选举；这一举动莫名其妙地被标榜为反恐措施。去年，政府面对抗议活动做出了不多的几个让步，其中之一就是恢复了地区选举制度。
The mayor of Moscow, Sergei Sobyanin, appointed to his post in 2010 by then-President Dmitri Medvedev, has decided to try gaming the system before it could threaten him by running while he is still popular. Instead of facing re-election in 2015, he resigned from the position in June, forcing an early election this September.
莫斯科市长谢尔盖·索比亚宁(Sergei Sobyanin)是2010年由当时的总统德米特里·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri Medvedev)任命的，他决定在当前的制度有一天威胁到他之前，好好利用它，趁自己仍然受到市民欢迎的时候参加竞选。所以，为了避免在2015年面对连任的挑战，他今年六月辞去了市长职位，迫使该市在九月提前举行选举。
Almost immediately, Putin appointed him acting mayor. Sobyanin will compete against several hand-picked candidates, and one real one: the anticorruption blogger Alexei Navalny, who is popular but is banned by law from becoming mayor because he is a convicted felon.
普京几乎立刻就任命他为莫斯科代理市长。将跟索比亚宁一争高下的，除了几名钦点候选人之外，还有一个真正的对手：反腐败博客作者阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei Navalny)。此人很受欢迎，但俄罗斯法律禁止他成为市长，因为他是一名已经被定罪的重罪犯。
It is an odd campaign. Precious few media outlets in Moscow aren’t controlled by the Kremlin, and most of those rent office space from the city at heavily discounted rates, so they prefer to avoid criticizing the authorities. In addition, Sobyanin has refused to take part in debates. He takes his cue from Putin, who has always been openly disdainful of honoring his opponents by sharing a stage with them.
这是一场奇怪的选举。在莫斯科，只有可贵的少数媒体未被克里姆林宫控制，但其中大部分在从该市租用办公室时，都享受了大幅的价格折扣，所以他们都倾向于避免批评当局。此外，索比亚宁已经拒绝参与辩论。这是借鉴了普京的做法：跟对手同台出场这种事情，一向遭到普金的公然鄙视，他不想这样抬举对手。
Still, if you look closely, you will see a few signs that a campaign is under way. There are some billboards. Navalny holds regular meetings with voters all over Moscow. Residential buildings in the city center are having their facades repainted: Mine had not seen a paint job in the 15 years I have lived there, and now its sole entrance is blocked by scaffolding.
不过，如果你仔细看，也会看到竞选正在进行的少许迹象。市里有一些竞选广告牌。纳瓦尔尼定期跟莫斯科各地的选民见面。位于市中心的住宅重新粉刷了外墙：我已经在那里的一栋建筑里住了15年，这是第一次看到它重新上漆，但现在建筑唯一的入口也被脚手架挡住了。
And there is the tent city. Both of the leading candidates have made blatantly nationalist statements, blaming immigrants for rising crime and virtually all of Moscow’s other problems, even though statistics do not bear this out. Navalny’s lapses into xenophobic rhetoric have alienated a small part of the opposition but have probably won him many more supporters. This may be one reason Sobyanin has sprung into action: For the last two weeks, Moscow police have been rounding up undocumented aliens who work in the city’s marketplaces and other menial jobs, starting with the Vietnamese.
当然还有帐篷城。两名领先的市长候选人都公然宣扬民族主义，把犯罪率上升和莫斯科几乎所有的其他问题都归咎到移民身上，只可惜统计数字不能证实这种说法。纳瓦尔尼发表的排外言论疏远了一小部分反对者，但可能也为他赢得了更多的支持者。这可能是索比亚宁采取行动的原因之一：过去两个星期里，莫斯科警方围捕了在集市里工作以及做其他粗活的无证外国人，首当其冲的就是越南人。
A temporary settlement that looks very much like a refugee camp, with huge tents filled with metal bunk-beds, has been speedily constructed. It is not clear exactly how many people are there, but the police have reported detaining as many as 1,500 immigrants in raids over the last couple of weeks. Human rights activists are reporting that the conditions in the camp are intolerable and that the state has provided no legal grounds for holding people there.
一个临时居住点迅速搭建起来，它看上去非常像难民营，有巨大的帐篷，里面摆满了金属质地的双层床。目前尚不清楚究竟有多少人住在那里，但过去几周里，警方已经在突袭行动中扣留了多达1500名移民。人权活动人士表示，这个营地的条件恶劣得不堪忍受，政府把人扣押在这里是没有法律依据的。
Moscow courts are already choking on the number of deportation cases suddenly coming in. Eventually, thousands of Vietnamese citizens, as well as anyone else the Moscow police choose to round up before the September election, will probably be deported. Until then, they will suffer heat, hunger and indignity in the tent city funded and tolerated by the residents of Moscow.
突然之间，莫斯科各法院突然接到大批驱逐出境的案件，让它们难以招架。数以千计的越南公民，以及莫斯科警方决定在九月竞选前围捕的其他人，最终可能会被驱逐出境。在那之前，他们将住在莫斯科居民资助和容忍的帐篷城里，忍受酷热、饥饿和屈辱。
One marvels at how a Russian bureaucrat can turn holding an election into an opportunity to make life in the city that much worse.
一名俄罗斯官僚竟然可以抓住竞选的机会，让人们在莫斯科的生活变得如此糟糕，这真是叹为观止。