PARIS — More than a decade before the international agency that monitors chemical weapons won the Nobel Peace Prize, John R. Bolton marched into the office of its boss to inform him that he would be fired.
巴黎——在禁止化学武器组织（Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons，简称OPCW）获得诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)十多年前，约翰·R·博尔顿(John R. Bolton)有一天大步走进该机构负责人的办公室，通知他将被解雇。
“He told me I had 24 hours to resign,” said José Bustani, who was director general of the agency, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons in The Hague. “And if I didn’t I would have to face the consequences.”
时任OPCW总干事的何塞·布斯塔尼(José Bustani)说，“他当时告诉我，我有24小时提出辞职。如果我不辞职，就要承担由此带来的后果。”
Mr. Bolton, then an under secretary of state and later the American ambassador to the United Nations, told Mr. Bustani that the Bush administration was unhappy with his management style.
当时担任美国副国务卿的博尔顿对布斯塔尼说，布什(Bush)政府对他的管理风格感到不满。博尔顿后来出任了美国驻联合国大使。
But Mr. Bustani, 68, who had been re-elected unanimously just 11 months earlier, refused, and weeks later, on April 22, 2002, he was ousted in a special session of the 145-nation chemical weapons watchdog.
然而，今年68岁的布斯塔尼当时拒绝辞职，就在11个月以前，他刚刚以全票再次当选为该机构的总干事。 而数周后的2002年4月22日，在这家拥有145个成员国的化学武器监督机构举行的一次特别会议上，他遭到了罢免。
The story behind his ouster has been the subject of interpretation and speculation for years, and Mr. Bustani, a Brazilian diplomat, has kept a low profile since then. But with the agency thrust into the spotlight with news of the Nobel Prize last week, Mr. Bustani agreed to discuss what he said was the real reason: the Bush administration’s fear that chemical weapons inspections in Iraq would conflict with Washington’s rationale for invading it. Several officials involved in the events, some speaking publicly about them for the first time, confirmed his account.
多年以来，他被免职这件事成了众说纷纭的话题，催生了各种猜测。身为巴西外交官的布斯塔尼自那之后一直很低调。然而，上周公布的诺贝尔奖把该机构猛然推到了聚光灯下，此时布斯塔尼也同意谈论他所认为的真实原因：布什政府担心，在伊拉克开展化学武器调查，会与美国入侵伊拉克的理由产生矛盾。几名涉及此事的官员证实了他的说法，其中一些人是首次公开讨论这些事件。
Mr. Bolton insists that Mr. Bustani was ousted for incompetence. In a telephone interview on Friday, he confirmed that he had confronted Mr. Bustani. “I told him if he left voluntarily we would give him a gracious and dignified exit,” he said.
博尔顿坚称，罢免布斯塔尼的原因是他不称职。在周五的电话采访中，他承认自己曾和布斯塔尼正面交锋。他说，“我对他说，如果他自愿离职，我们会让他体面风光地离开。”
As Mr. Bustani tells the story, the campaign against him began in late 2001, after Iraq and Libya had indicated that they wanted to join the Chemical Weapons Convention, the international treaty that the watchdog agency oversees. To join, countries have to provide a list of stockpiles and agree to the inspection and destruction of weapons, as Syria did last month after applying. Inspectors from the agency were making plans to visit Iraq in late January 2002, he said.
按照布斯塔尼所说，反对他的运作是从2001年末开始的。在那以前，伊拉克和利比亚表示，他们想要加入OPCW监督执行的《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)。为了加入公约，申请国必须提交化学武器库存清单，同意接受检查并销毁武器，上个月叙利亚提出申请后就是这么做的。布斯塔尼说，该机构的调查员当时正在制定计划，打算在2002年1月底访问伊拉克。
“We had a lot of discussions because we knew it would be difficult,” Mr. Bustani, who is now Brazil’s ambassador to France, said Friday in his embassy office in Paris. The plans, which he had conveyed to a number of countries, “caused an uproar in Washington,” he said. Soon, he was receiving warnings from American and other diplomats.
布斯塔尼现任巴西驻法国大使。周五，他在巴黎的大使馆里表示，“我们进行了大量讨论，因为我们知道，这件事会相当困难。”他说，他已向多个国家阐述过的那项计划，“在华盛顿引起了一场轩然大波”。他很快就接到了美国和其他国家外交官的警告。
“By the end of December 2001, it became evident that the Americans were serious about getting rid of me,” he said. “People were telling me, ‘They want your head.’ ”
他说，“到2001年12月底，形势变得明显起来，美国人真心想要除掉我。有人对我说，‘他们想要你的脑袋。’ ”
Mr. Bolton called on Mr. Bustani a second time. “I tried to persuade him not to put the organization through the vote,” Mr. Bolton said.
博尔顿第二次拜访了布斯塔尼。博尔顿说，“我试图劝说他，不要逼OPCW进行投票。”
But still Mr. Bustani refused, and his fate was sealed. The United States had marshaled its allies, and at an extraordinary session, Mr. Bustani was ousted by a vote of 48 to 7, with 43 abstentions. He was reportedly the first head of an international organization to be pushed out of office this way, and some diplomats said the pressure campaign had made them uneasy.
可是布斯塔尼再次拒绝了，他的命运就此决定。美国之前已经召集了它的盟友，在一次不同寻常的会议上，布斯塔尼经投票被罢免，投票结果为48票赞成、7票反对、43票弃权。据报道，他是第一位以这种方式被解除职务的国际组织负责人，一些外交官说，美方的施压让他们感到不安。
Mr. Bolton’s office had also circulated a document that accused Mr. Bustani of abrasive conduct and taking “ill-considered initiatives” without consulting with the United States and other member nations, diplomats said.
外交官们透露，博尔顿的办公室还分发过一份文件，指责布斯塔尼行事粗暴，在没有征询美国及其他成员国意见的情况下，采取了“考虑不周的行动”。
But Mr. Bustani and some senior officials, both in Brazil and the United States, say Washington acted because it believed that the organization under Mr. Bustani threatened to become an obstacle to the administration’s plans to invade Iraq. As justification, Washington was claiming that Saddam Hussein, the Iraqi leader, possessed chemical weapons, but Mr. Bustani said his own experts had told him that those weapons were destroyed in the 1990s, after the Persian Gulf war.
然而，布斯塔尼和巴西及美国的一些高级官员表示，华盛顿之所以采取行动，是因为它认为布斯塔尼领导下的该机构，可能会阻碍布什政府入侵伊拉克的计划。为了给入侵找到正当理由，华盛顿声称当时的伊拉克领导人萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有化学武器，但布斯塔尼表示，他手下的专家告诉过他，那些武器在海湾战争之后的20世纪90年代就已经销毁。
“Everybody knew there weren’t any,” he said. “An inspection would make it obvious there were no weapons to destroy. This would completely nullify the decision to invade.”
“谁都知道根本没有什么化学武器，”他说。“一次检查就能证明根本没有什么武器需要销毁。这将使入侵的决定完全失去依据。”
Mr. Bolton disputed that account. “He made that argument after we invaded,” he said. Twice during the interview, Mr. Bolton said, “The kind of person who believes that argument is the kind who puts tin foil on his ears to ward off cosmic waves.”
博尔顿不同意这种说法。他说，“他是在我们入侵以后才这么说的，”博尔顿在采访中两次说道，“相信这种说法的那些人也会在耳朵上塞上锡纸，以为就可以防御宇宙射线。”
But diplomats in The Hague said officials in Washington had circulated a document saying that the chemical weapons watchdog under Mr. Bustani was seeking an “inappropriate role in Iraq,” which was really a matter for the United Nations Security Council.
但海牙的外交官说，华盛顿的官员曾散发过一份文件，其中说到布斯塔尼领导下的这家化学武器监督组织正在“伊拉克问题上担当不恰当的角色”，而这实际上是联合国安理会(Security Council)的职权。
Avis Bohlen, a career diplomat who served as Mr. Bolton’s deputy before her retirement, said in a telephone interview from Washington on Saturday that others besides Mr. Bolton believed that Mr. Bustani had “stepped over some lines” in connection with Iraq and other matters. “The episode was very unpleasant for all concerned,” she said.
职业外交官阿维丝·波伦(Avis Bohlen)曾在退休前担任过博尔顿的副手。她周六在华盛顿接受了一次电话采访，她认为除了博尔顿，其他人也认为布斯塔尼在伊拉克和其他问题上“踩了一些线”。她说，“这件事对牵扯到的各方来说都是不愉快的。”
Speaking from São Paulo, Brazil, on Saturday, Celso Lafer, the former Brazilian foreign minister, said that in early 2002, he was asked to meet privately with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who a year earlier had praised Mr. Bustani’s leadership in a letter.
周六，巴西前外交部长塞尔索·拉费尔(Celso Lafer)在圣保罗接受电话采访时表示，在2002年初，他被要求与美国国务卿科林·L·鲍威尔(Colin L. Powell)私下会面，而鲍威尔曾在一年前的一封信中对布斯塔尼的领导能力大加赞赏。
Mr. Lafer said Mr. Powell told him, “ ‘I have people in the administration who don’t want Bustani to stay, and my role is to inform you of this.’ ”
拉费尔说，鲍威尔告诉他，“‘政府里有人不希望布斯塔尼留下，我的任务就是通知你这件事。’”
“It was a complicated process,” Mr. Lafer recalled, “with the United States and particularly John Bolton and Donald Rumsfeld wanting the head of Bustani.”
“过程非常复杂，”拉费尔回忆道，“美国，特别是约翰·博尔顿和唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)都想要布斯塔尼的脑袋。”
“My view,” he continued, “is that the neocons wanted the freedom to act without multilateral constraints and, with Bustani wanting to act with more independence, this would limit their freedom of action.”
“我的观点是，”他继续说道，“新保守主义者希望有行动的自由，不受制于多边机构限制；而布斯塔尼则希望自己的行动能够更独立，这样做就会限制前者的行动自由。”
On Friday, while fielding a flow of messages in his office, Mr. Bustani said he felt gratified about the Nobel Prize news and did not regret his days at the agency. “I had to start it from the beginning, create a code of conduct, a program of technical assistance,” he said. “We almost doubled the membership.”
周五，布斯塔尼在他的办公室里，一边回复源源不断的信息，一边表示，OPCW获得诺贝尔奖的消息令他十分欣慰，他并不后悔在该机构任职的岁月。“我当时要一切从头开始，制定行动准则、建立技术支持项目，”他说。“我们几乎让成员国数量翻了一番。”
He reflected on the contrast between Iraq and Syria. Inspectors from the agency are there now, cataloging the government’s stockpiles of chemical weapons as a step forward in Syria’s civil war, now in its third year.
他思考伊拉克与叙利亚之间的不同之处。OPCW的检查人员目前正在叙利亚登记政府的化学武器储备，这在已经持续了两年多的叙利亚内战中是一项进展。
“In 2002, the U.S. was determined to oppose Iraq joining the convention against the weapons, which it did not even have,” he said. “This time, joining the convention and having the inspectors present is part of the Syrian peace plan. It is such a fundamental shift.”
“2002年，美国坚决反对伊拉克加入《禁止化学武器公约》，而伊拉克那时甚至都没有化学武器，”他说。“这一次，加入公约并派遣调查人员是叙利亚走向和平的方案中的一部分。这是一个根本性的转变。”