LONDON — The Americans are coming, and the British literary world is not happy.
伦敦——美国人要来了，英国文学界可不大开心。
The Man Booker Prize, which had been open to English-language novels from Britain and the Commonwealth, has just gone global, producing anxiety about damage to cultural diversity and fears that the American cultural hyperpower that dominates movies and television will crush the small literary novel.
面向英国及英联邦国家英文小说的布克奖(Man Booker Prize)刚刚走向了世界，引发了这将给文化多样性带来损害的忧虑，以及对已在影视界占主导地位的美国文化强权将粉碎小小的文学小说的恐慌。
“It’s rather like a British company being taken over by some worldwide conglomerate,” said Melvyn Bragg, an author and television host in Britain.
英国作家兼电视主持人梅尔文·布拉格(Melvyn Bragg)说，“这很像是英国企业被某家国际大集团收购了。”
The Booker Prize for fiction, begun in 1969, was always something that Britain and its former territories could call their own, seen as a bulwark against the spread of the American novel, that globalized product of the world’s richest market.
布克小说奖始创于1969年，一直是英国及其前殖民地的自留地，被视为抵御美国小说扩张的堡垒，美国小说是世界上最富裕市场的全球化产品。
The award — with its publicity, its paycheck and its immediate impact on sales — has been an important boost to the careers of Canadians like Michael Ondaatje and Yann Martel, and Indians like Kiran Desai and Aravind Adiga. It has brought attention to novelists previously unknown and unpublished in the United States, and it has been an important encouragement to publishers of quality fiction.
布克奖带来的曝光度和奖金，加上对销量立竿见影的效果，对一些作家的职业来说是一个重要的推动，比如迈克尔·翁达杰(Michael Ondaatje)和扬·马特尔(Yann Martel)等加拿大作家，以及基兰·德赛 (Kiran Desai)和阿拉文德·阿迪加(Aravind Adiga)等印度作家。它让之前在美国默默无名、未曾发表过作品的小说家受到关注，也是对推出高质量虚构作品的出版社的巨大鼓舞。
This week, the chairman of the Booker Prize Foundation, Jonathan Taylor, said, “We are abandoning the constraints of geography and national boundaries” to become a truly international prize, as a result of consultations that began in 2011. The change could enhance the Booker’s “prestige and reputation through expansion, rather than by setting up a separate prize” for Americans, he said.
本周，布克奖基金会(Booker Prize Foundation)主席乔纳森·泰勒(Jonathan Taylor)宣布，“我们即将打破地理与国籍的限制”，让该奖成为一个真正的国际奖，这是始于2011年的磋商的结果。他还表示，布克奖的“威望与声誉”会因这一变化“通过扩大范围”而得到提升，而不是通过为美国作家“单独设立一个奖项”。
Next year, the prize will be open to any work originally written in English and published in Britain, not just works by citizens of Britain, the Commonwealth, Ireland and Zimbabwe, bringing immediate concerns that American novels will dominate, “simply through an economic superpower exerting its own literary tastes,” the British novelist Philip Hensher, who has been both a Booker finalist and a judge, said in an interview.
从明年起，布克奖将面向在英国出版的所有英文原创作品，而不再局限于英国、英联邦国家、爱尔兰和津巴布韦公民的作品，这立即引发了人们的担忧。英国小说家菲利普·亨舍(Philip Hensher)接受采访时说，“通过经济超级大国对文学品味施加的影响”，美国小说将在评奖上占主导地位。亨舍曾进入布克奖的最终入围名单，也担任过评委。
More troubling, he said, will be the loss of “new, interesting voices.” American novels are already culturally dominant, he said: “It’s hard to think of American novels that don’t make their way into the larger English world. But I can think of Canadian, Indian, African novels that struggle to find a broader readership.”
他还表示，更让人担心的是，将会失去“新鲜而有趣的声音”。他说，美国小说已经在文化上占据主导地位，“很难想出一些未能进入更广阔的英语世界的美国小说，但我能想出不少艰难地寻找更广泛读者群的加拿大、印度和非洲小说。”
Criticism of the prize has been a literary sport since its inception, with complaints about the winners, the judges and even the prize dinners. A. L. Kennedy, who was a judge in 1996, famously and ungrammatically said that the winner was determined by “who knows who, who’s sleeping with who, who’s selling drugs to who, who’s married to who, whose turn it is.”
自从布克奖创立以来，人们就一直把批评它当作文学界的娱乐活动，对获奖者、评奖人，乃至颁奖晚宴都有不少的抱怨。曾于1996年担任评委的A·L·肯尼迪(A. L. Kennedy)说过一段著名但不合英文语法的话，她说获奖者是靠“谁认识谁、谁睡谁、谁卖给谁毒品、谁和谁结婚，以及这次轮到谁”决定的。
Ms. Kennedy is in favor of the expansion of the Booker, however, noting that other, newer prizes open to any English-language novel published here, like the Folio Prize (£40,000, or about $64,000, which makes its first award next January) and the International Impac Dublin Literary Award (100,000 euros, or about $135,000, and also open to translations) have been “nipping at its heels.” The Man Booker award comes with a prize of £50,000, or about $80,000.
肯尼迪对布克奖扩大评奖范围表示支持，但她也指出，其他对在英国出版的所有英文小说都开放的更新奖项，比如福利奥文学奖(Folio Prize，奖金为4万英镑，约合39万元人民币，明年1月将首次颁发)和国际IMPAC都柏林文学奖(International Impac Dublin Literary Award，奖金为10万欧元，约合82万元人民币，该奖也对译著开放)，一直在“咬布克奖的后脚跟”。布克奖的奖金为5万英镑，约合49万元人民币。
The Booker has also become less literary, some argue, suggesting that since the Man Group, a multinational financial company, took it over in 2002, the renamed Man Booker Prize has become more middlebrow.
还有人说，布克奖的文学性不像原来那样强了，自从跨国金融公司英仕曼集团(Man Group)于2002年接管该奖以来，被重新命名的曼氏布克奖就变得趋于平庸。
Even this year, one of the six finalists, Jhumpa Lahiri’s “Lowland,” has been criticized as an American novel. Born in London, Ms. Lahiri moved to the United States at the age of 2 and generally writes about the experience of exiles living in the United States.
就在今年，有人批评作为六部最终入围作品之一的茱帕·拉希里(Jhumpa Lahiri)的《低地》(Lowland)，是一部美国小说。拉希里在伦敦出生，2岁时便移居美国，写作题材一般是在美国生活的背井离乡者的经历。
Part of the impact of the Booker comes from the publication of a “long list” of semifinalists and then a “shortlist” of six finalists, both of which bring attention to younger writers unlikely to win and to smaller publishers. The concern is that these lists will be dominated by American novelists, driving out others, diminishing the chances of a broader public’s discovering something daring, unfamiliar or new.
布克奖的影响力部分来自其公布的半决赛“长名单”和六部决赛作品的“短名单”。这两份名单都会让人们注意到不太可能获奖的较年轻的作家，以及较小的出版商。人们担心，这两份名单都将被美国小说主导，其他国家的小说则会被挤出去。这样一来，更大范围的公众会失去发现一些大胆、陌生或新奇作品的机会。
Since the judges are still required, at least in principle, to read every entry, publishers will now be allowed to nominate only one novel, rather than two, which means that smaller publishers will have fewer chances to get on a shortlist. Exceptions are made for publishers that have had a finalist in the last five years.
评委们仍必须读完每部参评作品，至少原则上是这样，因此出版商将只能提名一部而不是两部作品，这意味着较小的出版商入围短名单的机会更小了。在过去五年中曾有过进入决赛作品的出版商则有例外。
“It means the prize will be dominated by big publishing houses who maybe aren’t taking as many risks,” Anne Meadows, an editor at Granta Books, told the BBC. “Good novels will be overlooked.”
格兰塔出版公司(Granta Books)的编辑安妮·梅多斯(Anne Meadows)对BBC说，“这意味着，布克奖将会被大出版社主宰，而这些出版社可能不愿冒过多的风险。优秀小说会被忽视。”
In Australia, the news went over badly. Susan Wyndham, literary editor of The Sydney Morning Herald, noted that Australian authors have only won four times since 1969, with Peter Carey winning twice, but that many Australians have been finalists. “We should be proud of our literary voice,” she wrote in the newspaper. “But we remain a small voice.”
在澳大利亚，人们对这一消息的反应很不好。《悉尼先驱晨报》(The Sydney Morning Herald)的文学编辑苏珊·温德姆 (Susan Wyndham)指出，自1969年以来，澳籍作家只有四次获奖，其中彼得·凯里(Peter Carey)两获殊荣，但许多澳大利亚作家都进过最终入围名单。她在该报撰文写道，“我们应该为本国文学的声音感到自豪，但我们的声音仍很微弱。”
Americans “barely want to know about books — or music, movies, television, plays and other art forms — from outside their huge, self-sustaining culture,” Ms. Wyndham said. She noted, as Mr. Hensher did, that American awards are unlikely to reciprocate. There is no indication that coveted prizes for American writers and publishers — like the National Book Awards and the Pulitzers — have any intention of opening up to the larger world, let alone to Britain and the Commonwealth.
温德姆说，美国人“很少想了解来自他们文化之外的书籍，或音乐、影视、戏剧，以及其他艺术形式，他们有巨大的、自我维持的文化”。温德姆也像亨舍那样指出，美国的奖项不大可能采取相应的互惠做法。没有迹象表明，美国作家和出版社梦寐以求的奖项，比如国家图书奖(National Book Awards)和普利策奖(Pulitzers)，打算向更广阔的世界开放，更别说英国和英联邦国家了。
The novelist Linda Grant, who was a finalist in 2008, said that there are “two career-changing prizes, the Booker and the Pulitzer.” Now, she said, British and Commonwealth writers “will have more competition for a career-changing prize, whereas U.S. authors will have a new prize.”
进入2008年最终入围名单的小说家琳达·格兰特(Linda Grant)表示，有“两个能改变职业生涯的奖项，布克奖和普利策奖”。她说，现在，英国和英联邦国家的作家“在争夺其中一个能改变职业生涯的奖项时，将面临更多竞争，而美国作家则多了一个新奖项”。