CHARLOTTE MOSS, the interior designer, is so intrigued with entertaining that years ago she bought Jacqueline Kennedy’s handwritten notes about entertaining at the White House.
室内设计师夏洛特·莫斯(Charlotte Moss)对待客之道深感兴趣，乃至多年前，她就买下了杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)关于在白宫待客的几份手稿。
“Jackie made White House entertaining more relaxed,” Ms. Moss said over lunch recently at Sette Mezzo on the Upper East Side. “Rather than using stiff gladiolas, she used daisies and tulips and had them in everything from baskets to gilt bronze.”
“杰奎琳使白宫待客的氛围变得更轻松了，”莫斯最近在上东区的赛特梅佐酒店(Sette Mezzo)吃午餐时说，“她没有用僵硬的剑兰，而用了雏菊和郁金香，并把这些花装在了各种容器里，其中既有篮子，又有镀金的青铜器皿。”
Ms. Moss loves entertaining, particularly in the spring, which “invites you to experiment with a broader palette of colors,” she said. The season also lends itself to everything from casual buffets to parties held in the garden of the Manhattan townhouse she shares with her husband, Barry Friedberg, a banker.
莫斯喜欢招待客人，尤其是在春天。这个时节，“你可以用更丰富的色彩来做实验，”她说。这个季节也很适合她与身为银行家的丈夫巴里·弗里德伯格(Barry Friedberg)，在他俩一起生活的这栋曼哈顿联排别墅的花园中，举办从休闲自助餐到各种派对的一切活动。
No matter the event, Ms. Moss eschews matching dishes and serving pieces. “Life is short,” she said. “Can you imagine serving dinner on the same service every time you entertain? I would be bored stiff.”
但不管是什么活动，莫斯都尽量回避餐盘与餐具的固定搭配。“生命太短暂了，”她说，“你能想象自己每次招待客人都使用同样的餐具吗？我觉得那样无聊透顶。”
That means she is constantly in search of new china and decorative pieces for the table, and as spring approaches, she gravitates toward patterns with flowers and vegetables.
这就意味着，她一直在寻找新的瓷器和餐桌装饰品。而随着春天的临近，她就被带有鲜花和蔬菜图案的物品吸引了。
She also likes to create combinations of chargers and plates. At William-Wayne & Company on Lexington Avenue, she found a wicker charger and topped it with a dinner plate imprinted with a large leaf that looked like new majolica, and a smaller white leaf-shaped salad plate that complemented the dinner pattern.
她还喜欢尝试大小餐盘的各种组合。在莱克星顿大道(Lexington Avenue)的William-Wayne & Company商店里，她找到一个用柳条编织的大餐盘，然后在上面放了一只看上去像马约里加陶器(majolica)的、印有一大片树叶的小餐盘，再放上一个更小的树叶形白色色拉餐盘，与整套餐具的图案相得益彰。
Ms. Moss clearly has a weakness for wicker. At Treillage Ltd., several blocks north, she noticed casserole dishes set in wicker trays so that a cook could pull them out of the oven and put them straight on the table. “They are both pretty and practical,” she said.
莫斯对柳条制品难以抗拒。在向北几条街的Treillage Ltd.商店，她注意到一套放在柳条托盘里的烘焙餐盘。厨师可以把这种托盘从烤箱里拉出来，直接端上餐桌。“这些托盘既漂亮又实用。”她说。
Ms. Moss often has her tablecloths made from fabric she orders online, at Fabricut.com. “Tables come in so many sizes today that stores don’t have a large inventory” of tablecloths, she said. But at Bergdorf Goodman, she succumbed to a brushed linen tablecloth covered in a “lively” flower print that she said was “compatible with everything.”
莫斯还常常在Fabricut.com网站订购面料来做桌布。“如今的餐桌，规格大小品类繁多，以至于商店里没有那么大存量”的桌布，她说。但在Bergdorf Goodman商店，她倾心于一块拉绒亚麻面料的桌布，布面上还印了一朵“栩栩如生”的鲜花。她说，那朵花“搭配什么都合适”。
Finally, flowers on the table are a must. At Lexington Gardens, near 73rd Street, she found white porcelain tulipieres that she said would be perfect with tulips or roses. “A tulipiere makes you look like a flower-arranging genius,” she said. “If you just use the same flower in every vase, you get a lot of look without a lot of effort or the agony of arranging.”
最后，鲜花是餐桌上的必需品。在靠近73街的一家名为“莱克星顿花园”(Lexington Gardens)的商店里，她找到几只白色郁金香装饰瓶(tulipiere)。她说用来摆放郁金香或玫瑰花再好不过了。“一个郁金香装饰瓶会让你看起来像个插花天才，”她说，“如果你只是在每只瓶子里插上同一种花，也能不必费心费力就得到突出的效果。”
For a slightly dressier look, Ms. Moss suggested Venetian-glass bud vases. “I love one stem in each vase at each place setting, or putting them together in clusters,” she said of the vases, which come in an array of colors. “A lot of people are arrangement phobic. They would love to do it, but they are scared, and it takes skill to get it right. There is a reason to sticking to single-flower arranging.” 
若想看起来更讲究一些，莫斯建议使用威尼斯玻璃的单支花瓶。“我喜欢在每处餐位的每个花瓶里插一支花，或者把花集成一簇，”她谈论着这组彩色各异的花瓶，“许多人都有插花恐惧症。他们可能很喜欢摆放鲜花，却不敢动手，因为这件事需要有技巧才能做得好。所以，自始至终只放一支花也是有道理的。”