WEDNESDAY saw the publication, years overdue, of the official report into Britain’s conduct of the 2003 Iraq war. The inquiry, led by a former senior civil servant, John Chilcot, reviewed thousands of documents and interviewed more than 100 witnesses, and the final report runs to more than two million words.
本周三，调查英国在2003年伊拉克战争中行为的特别报告终于在推迟多年之后问世。这项调查由曾担任高层公务员的约翰·齐尔考特(John Chilcot)牵头进行，审阅了数千份文档并采访了上百名目击者，最终报告的篇幅超过了两百万单词。
Its findings are clear. The British government, led by Prime Minister Tony Blair, exaggerated the case for war and decided on military action when it had not exhausted the alternatives. (As a former British diplomat and specialist on Iraq at the United Nations, I was one of those who testified to precisely this at the Chilcot inquiry.) The government also failed to prepare for the invasion and mismanaged the occupation of Iraq.
文中得出的结论清晰无误。以首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)为首的英国政府夸大了开战的理由，并在尚未穷尽其他选择的情况下决定采取军事行动。（身为当年的英国外交官及联合国的伊拉克问题专家，我本人是向齐尔考特调查委员会做出这一证词的其中一人。）而且，政府没能为出兵做好准备，在占领伊拉克的事务上也处理不当。
For many, this comes as confirmation of what they already believed. It is striking, nonetheless, to see it delivered in the cool, measured language of a retired government official. Those who said that Mr. Blair and his government were “misled” by faulty intelligence on weapons of mass destruction before the war have lost their claim: Mr. Chilcot’s report says Mr. Blair presented the intelligence case with a certainty the data did not justify. As for the occupation, the 13 years of chaos and violence that Iraqis have endured since the invasion demonstrate beyond question the incompetence and irresponsibility of those who planned and organized it.
在许多人看来，这样的论断确认了他们本已认定的事情。尽管如此，看到一位退休政府官员以冷静的语言，字斟句酌地将之呈现出来，仍然让人印象深刻。那些过去声称，布莱尔及其政府在战前受到了有关大规模杀伤性武器错误情报“误导”的人，丧失了这么说的依据：齐尔考特的报告称，在数据并不能说明问题的情况下，布莱尔却展示出，在情报方面存在确凿理由。至于在占领伊拉克的事情上，伊拉克民众在出兵之后遭受的13年兵荒马乱与暴力行径毫无疑问地证明，负责策划和组织的那些人何其无能、何其不负责任。
British public inquiries like this have an ulterior purpose, which is to reassure the population that government can understand its mistakes and correct them. In Parliament, the prime minister, David Cameron, said gravely that the report would be studied and its recommendations followed. After a day or two of outrage, the news cycle will move on. But if such a debacle is not to occur again, a disaster of this magnitude requires deeper reflection and real consequences.
英国的这类公共调查有一个隐含的目的，那就是向民众保证，政府可以明白自身的错误并加以纠正。现任首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在议会里严肃地表示，会去研究这份报告，其中的建议也会得到遵从。一两天的怒火发泄过后，新闻热点会转向别处。不过，要想避免重蹈覆辙，这样规模的灾难应当带来更深刻的反思与真正的后果。
The Chilcot report does not in itself entail accountability. Criminal prosecutions appear unlikely, and outside of the courts, there is a poverty of options to hold the culpable to account. The day or two of public embarrassment that Mr. Blair and his collaborators now face is wholly insufficient — and what recourse could compensate for what has been inflicted both on the Iraqi people and on the soldiers who sacrificed their lives in this misbegotten venture? So many people have died in the conflict, at least a quarter-million since the invasion.
齐尔考特报告本身并不会导致问责。刑事指控看起来也不可能，而在法庭之外，实在又缺乏让当事人担责的手段。布莱尔及其同伙如今面临的一两天公开的难堪绝不足够——又有什么办法，可以补偿伊拉克民众和为这一拙劣行动牺牲了生命的那些军人所遭受的苦难？有无数人死于这场冲突，出兵之后至少达25万之众。
The ministers and officials who enabled Mr. Blair to perpetrate this catastrophe must also bear blame. Brave after the event, many testified before Mr. Chilcot that they knew the war was a mistake — yet they went along with it. But without them, it could not have happened. The “threat” of weapons of mass destruction was repeated by many diplomats and officials even when they, like me, were well aware that the scant intelligence we had could not substantiate the claim.
让布莱尔得以发动这场灾难的大臣和官员，也难辞其咎。许多人事后倒是勇敢地在齐尔考特面前作证，他们明知伊拉克战争是个错误——却还是加入了进去。然而，要不是有这些人，此事本可以避免。大规模杀伤性武器的“威胁”被人数众多的外交工作者和官员反复提及，就算他们与我一样心里很清楚，我们手头那点可怜的情报并不足以支撑那样的结论。
Some were dispatched to govern Iraq after the invasion, but with zero training or other preparation for the task. The war set off vicious sectarian violence — exactly as I had heard British officials warn explicitly on several occasions at British-American talks I attended before the invasion.
有些人在出兵之后被派去治理伊拉克，却丝毫没有受过承担这一任务所需的训练，或是做过其他什么准备。这场战争引爆了凶残的宗派暴力活动——出兵之前，我在英美协商的过程中几次听到有英国官员直白地做出这样的警告。
There are further, dire effects of the 2003 invasion the Chilcot report omits to mention. A thug named Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a marginal figure in Al Qaeda, was elevated in the jihadist hierarchy when Secretary of State Colin Powell, in his notorious prewar speech to the United Nations Security Council, falsely named him as a terrorist ally of Saddam Hussein. As a result, Mr. Zarqawi gained status as America’s declared enemy, an authority he exploited to become an extremist leader in the Sunni insurgency in Iraq.
齐尔考特报告忽略了2003年出兵伊拉克导致的其他一些严重后果。在向联合国安全理事会做的臭名昭著的战前演讲中，当时的美国国务卿科林·鲍威尔(Colin Powell)将基地组织的边缘人物阿布·穆萨卜·扎卡维(Abu Musab al-Zarqawi)错误地指控为萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的恐怖主义盟友。于是，扎卡维这个曾经的小混混获得了经美国认证的敌人的地位，而他又利用这样的权威成为了伊拉克境内逊尼派叛乱活动的极端主义领导人。
Breaking with Al Qaeda, he founded the group that became the Islamic State, which today occupies Iraq’s second-largest city, Mosul, and a vast stretch of territory across Iraq and Syria, and just this week killed more than 200 civilians in suicide bombings in Baghdad. The Islamic State has inspired mass killings from California to Paris to Istanbul. In Syria, Islamic State fighters have already used chemical weapons. If the group obtains other weapons of mass destruction, it will use them.
与基地组织分裂后，他成立了自己的队伍，继而发展成后来的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。今天，它占领了伊拉克的第二大城市摩苏尔，还掌握了横跨伊拉克与叙利亚境内的大片土地。就在本周，它在巴格达发起的自杀式炸弹袭击导致逾200名平民死亡。伊斯兰国还激发了从加州到巴黎再到伊斯坦布尔的大规模屠戮行为。在叙利亚，伊斯兰国的武装分子已经施放过化学武器。倘若获取了其他大规模杀伤性武器，它定会使用。
Thus the invasion that was justified by an imaginary threat in Iraq helped create a crisis of global insecurity that will endure for a generation, at least.
就这样，以伊拉克境内想象中的威胁为名的出兵行为，协助创造了一个至少会延续一代人的全球安全危机。
Warmongering is a more subtle process than you might think. I saw, up close, how decent people collaborated in selling an unnecessary war. They believed that government must affirm its claim to provide security for the people by exercising the state’s monopoly of force. As I once did, they shared a belief in government’s knowledge and expertise: Government knows best.
贩卖战争的过程要比大家以为的更微妙。我本人近距离观察了正派人士怎样合谋兜售了一场不必要的战争。他们相信政府必须兑现自己提出的为民众提供安全的说法，而方式是行使政权对武力的垄断。像我当初那样，他们都相信政府的智识与专业性：政府最明事理。
Except when it doesn’t. I’ve come to believe that governments’ failed attempts to impose order by force are themselves the source of disorder. Many Iraqis would doubtless agree.
但政府有不懂的时候。我逐渐认定，当政府试图以武力来建立秩序而未果时，它们本身就是混乱的源头。许多伊拉克人恐怕会同意这种说法。
The Chilcot report reveals much about government and its failure but largely ignores the greatest issue. The enormous suffering and losses of the Iraqi people are scarcely mentioned; there is no attempt to count the dead.
齐尔考特报告揭露了不少政府的真实面目及其失败之处，但大体忽略了最严重的问题。伊拉克民众遭受的巨大苦难与损失鲜被提及；文中也没有要清点死者人数的意图。
There is also no recommendation of making reparation to the Iraqi people, let alone an apology. For me, this should be the ultimate significance of a report like this: that it speaks for those whose lives were needlessly wasted. It is their fate, not those of us and our politicians, that should preoccupy us. Only then can we begin to grasp the magnitude of what was done in our name.
报告里亦未建议对伊拉克民众做出赔偿，更别谈道歉了。在我看来，这才应当是此类报告最有分量的地方：为那些无故浪费的生命发声。我们全心关注的，应该是他们的命运，而不是我们自己，或者本国政客。只有这样，大家才能开始明白，以我们的名义做出的行径究竟有多么大的影响。