In 2011, the writer Anne Hellman completed a gut renovation of a town house in the Cobble Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn, an experience that prompted her to write a book about the borough’s buildings and spaces. “I started thinking about other houses, and it quickly became 10 and more,” Hellman said. “There were so many stories. I started reaching out to architects. By fall I was contacting neighborhood associations in Brooklyn. It was a good two years.” In “Design Brooklyn: Renovation, Restoration, Innovation, Industry” (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, $40), she profiles new and historical public and private spaces from all the neighborhoods in Brooklyn.Above is a sneak peek at some of the spaces she included in the book, which hits shelves Oct. 22 and features more than 150 photographs by Michel Arnaud. It’s packed with engaging back stories of Brooklyn’s homes, shops, restaurants and public institutions like Fort Greene Park and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden Visitor Center in Prospect Heights. There are also interviews with some of Brooklyn’s finest, including Mike Diamond from the Beastie Boys, who restored a brownstone not far from Hellman’s place in Cobble Hill. Because 256 pages wasn’t enough to showcase all of the grand design material she found, she started a blog last December to give voice to the 15 or so stories that were left on the cutting room floor and provide a platform for new Brooklyn design tales.
2011年，作家安妮·赫尔曼(Anne Hellman)完成了对布鲁克林圆石山一栋宅邸的内部翻修。这次经历激发她写了一本关于这个区的建筑和内部空间的书。“我开始思考其他房子，很快就有了十多个可写的房子，”赫尔曼说，“有那么多故事可讲。我开始采访建筑师。到秋天的时候，我开始与布鲁克林的几个协会联系。那两年过得很愉快。”在《设计布鲁克林：整修，修复，创新，产业》（Design Brooklyn: Renovation, Restoration, Innovation, Industry，Stewart, Tabori & Chang出版社出版，40美元）一书中，她简要描述了布鲁克林各地新的、旧的、公共以及私人的建筑。上图中展示了她在书中提到的一些建筑。该书将于10月22日上架，其中包含米歇尔·阿尔诺(Michel Arnaud)拍摄的150多幅照片。书中还有很多有趣的幕后故事，是关于布鲁克林的很多家宅、店铺、餐馆以及公共机构，比如格林堡公园以及位于展望高地的布鲁克林植物园游客中心。书中还有一些和布鲁克林名人的采访，包括小兽孩(Beastie Boys)乐队的迈克·迪亚蒙(Mike Diamond)，他刚刚修复了离赫尔曼在圆石山住所不远的一幢豪宅。因为256页不足以展示她找到的所有精彩的设计素材，所以去年12月她开了一个博客，来讲述被删掉的约15个故事，为新的布鲁克林设计神话提供了一个平台。