Isn’t it delicious that after trafficking in racism, promoting sexism and using a lie about Barack Obama’s birthplace as a pivot into political relevance, Donald Trump could receive his final death blow from a black woman: the president’s wife?
贩卖种族主义、推销性别歧视、利用奥巴马出生地的谎言来捞取政治资本的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)，有可能从一位黑人妇女——总统夫人——那里遭受最后的致命一击，这难道不是妙得很吗？
And isn’t it interesting that after so many years of keeping a studied distance from the ugliness of the political arena, the first lady is throwing herself with such passion into this grotesque campaign?
多年来与丑恶的政治舞台刻意保持距离的第一夫人，如今却如此激情地投入这场荒诞不经的竞选活动，难道不有趣吗？
That says everything about the singular threat that Trump poses, and she’s emerging as the fiercest counter to it: Michelle Obama, octopus slayer. She’s effective because she has never gone looking for a fight — we know that about her. She acts when she has something to defend, and as she made clear in a stirring, searing speech late last week, that’s more than her husband’s legacy, which a Trump victory would decimate. It’s her dignity as a woman. It’s the dignity of all women.
对于特朗普展现出来的咄咄逼人的威胁，这已经说明了一切，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)——章鱼杀手，正在成为其最猛烈的抵抗者。她的举动很有效果，因为她以前从来没主动针对谁——我们了解她。只有当她需要保护什么东西的时候，才会有所行动，就像上周晚些时候，她在一个激动人心的热情演讲中所表明的那样：如果特朗普获胜，那么遭受重创的不仅仅有她丈夫的政治遗产，还有她作为一名女性的尊严，以及所有女性的尊严。
I don’t mean to overstate her impact: Trump was going down before she joined the chorus of condemnation. But her eloquence is sealing the deal. First at the Democratic convention in late July and then in New Hampshire on Thursday, she embodied the nation’s conscience and staked her claim as the most earnest guardian of our most important values.
我不想夸大她的影响：在她加入谴责声浪之前，特朗普就已经在走下坡路了。但她的口才是最后一击。首先是在7月下旬的民主党全国代表大会上，然后是上周四在新汉普州的大会上，她化身为这个国家的良知，作为我们最重要价值观的最认真守护者，表达了观点。
Hillary Clinton can’t play that part. She has made too many messy compromises and revealed too much rococo calculation. Those hacked John Podesta emails suggest that she doesn’t blink until a sprawling committee of Clinton whisperers has hashed out the wisdom of it.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)扮演不了这样的角色。她做过太多乱七八糟的妥协，展现过太多错综复杂的算计。被黑客曝光的约翰·波德斯塔(John Podesta)的电子邮件显示，在众多克林顿告密者爆出真料之前，她眼睛都不会眨一下，这就已经证明了她胜任不了这个角色。
Barack Obama can’t play that part, not at this exact moment, in his precise mood. On the stump in Ohio last week, he essentially asked voters not just to reject Trump but to punish the G.O.P., and his obvious, warranted glee over the party’s travails had a score-settling, told-you-so quality to it.
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)也扮演不了这个角色，在此刻，在目前的心情下，是不行的。上上周在俄亥俄州的竞选活动中，他基本上是在要求选民不仅要拒绝特朗普，还要惩罚共和党，他对于共和党陷入困境所表现出的显而易见、合情合理的愉悦，有一种报仇雪恨、早就告诉过你的感觉。
He excoriated Republicans for the “swamp of crazy that has been fed over and over and over and over again.” He told them that Trump is the nominee you get when your agenda is “based on lies, based on hoaxes.” He wasn’t merely safeguarding America’s future. He was reveling in his revenge.
他痛斥共和党人“反反复复地助长疯狂”。他告诉他们，如果你“以恶作剧和谎言为基础”安排议程，当然特朗普就会成为提名人。他不只是在维护美国的未来。他也陶醉于自己的复仇之中。
Michelle Obama probably also wants revenge for the worst of what her husband (and she) went through, but you don’t hear that in her words.
米歇尔·奥巴马可能也想要为丈夫（和自己）经历的一些极糟糕的事情复仇，但你不会在她的演讲中听到这种感觉。
That’s largely because she has the luxury of not being a politician. She isn’t and won’t be running for anything. She hasn’t been forced to weigh in on a bevy of issues, potentially alienating voters who disagree, or to exhaust her ammunition on a range of fronts. You want high approval ratings? Exit elected office, or never enter it in the first place.
这在相当大的程度上是因为她拥有并非政界人士的优势。她现在没有，以后也不会担任公职。她无需非要就一系列议题发表意见，因此就不会疏远意见不同的选民，她也无需在多条战线上耗尽自己的弹药。你想要获得很高的支持率吗？那就退出当选职位，或者一开始就不要担任这样的职位。
But in addition to that, she has honed a talent — rare in Washington — for rising above pettiness, and she and her speechwriters have aced a nuanced, soulful alternative to common reproach and garden-variety rancor. I think of the gorgeous passage in her convention speech about moving to Washington and watching her daughters wake up every morning in a white house built by black slaves. That observation admonished America for its sins but also brimmed with appreciation, complimenting and congratulating the country on its progress. It got at something that politics and politicians seldom do: the complicated, inarguable truth.
不过除此之外，她还磨炼出了克服偏狭的本领，这在华盛顿是非常难得的。她和演讲稿撰写人撇开常见的指责和各种怨恨，选择了另一种微妙、深情的方式。我想起了她在全国大会上发表演讲时，说到自己把家搬到华盛顿，每天早上在黑奴修建的白宫里看着两个女儿醒来的精彩段落。这样的观察既指出了美国的罪过，但也充满了感谢，那是对这个国家取得的进步所做出的赞美与祝贺。它说出了政治和政客很少道明的东西：复杂却不容置疑的事实。
Her speech last week was just as exceptional, because it was less a summons to the barricades than a cry from the heart, and she’d planned to make remarks along these lines even before she heard the recording of Trump’s 2005 conversation with Billy Bush.
她上周的演讲同样不同寻常，因为它更多的是发自内心的呐喊，而不是向障碍发出的命令。早在听到的那段特朗普2005年和比利·布什(Billy Bush)的聊天录音之前，她就打算发表这样的讲话。
Then that recording came out, intensifying her determination. “It hurts,” she said, referring to the sort of entitlement that Trump expresses, the kind of language that he uses and his obvious belief that women exist chiefly for his pleasure, which takes precedence over their autonomy. “It’s like that sick, sinking feeling you get when you’re walking down the street, minding your own business, and some guy yells out vulgar words about your body.”
后来，曝出的录音坚定了她的决心。“很伤人，”她指的是特朗普表示出的那种理所当然，他使用的那种语言，以及他显然认为女性的存在主要是为了让他高兴，这高于她们的意志自由。“就像你走在大街上，正在想着自己的事情，有人用下流话大声评价你身体时的那种恶心、颓丧的感觉。”
She added that women often “pretend like this doesn’t really bother us, maybe because we think that admitting how much it hurts makes us as women look weak.”
她接着表示，女性常常“假装这种事情不会真正让我们烦恼，这可能是因为我们觉得，承认它多么伤人会让我们作为女性给人脆弱的感觉”。
“Maybe we’re afraid to be that vulnerable,” she theorized, but she let her own vulnerability show, in a voice that trembled. It was her bridge to every American that she had any hope of reaching.
“可能我们害怕自己那么脆弱，”她从理论上进行推测，但透过颤抖的声音让自己的脆弱表现了出来。那是她希望能够打动每一个美国人的桥梁。
There has been incessant chatter during this election cycle about authenticity. There has been as much misunderstanding, especially among Trump’s boosters, about what it really means.
在这个选举周期中，有关真诚的讨论一直不绝于耳。对于它的真正含义存在大量误解，尤其是在特朗普的支持者中。
Insults aren’t badges of authenticity. They’re evidence of rudeness and frequently cruel. Profanity doesn’t render you authentic. It just proves that you’re a child.
侮辱不是真诚的象征。它们是粗鲁无礼的证据，并且常常颇为刻毒。不敬行为不会让你显得真诚。它只会证明你是个小孩子。
You know what struck me as authentic? The way that the first lady and George W. Bush leaned into each other and held hands at a funeral for police officers in Dallas back in July. Or the way that they embraced last month in Washington at the opening of the National Museum of African American History and Culture.
你知道在我眼里什么是真诚吗？是这位第一夫人和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)今年7月在达拉斯的一场警察葬礼上相互靠近手拉手。是他们上个月在华盛顿的国立非裔美国人历史与文化博物馆(National Museum of African American History and Culture)开幕式上的相互拥抱。
To look at those images is to understand Michelle Obama’s power. She isn’t tailoring her behavior to talking points. She isn’t filtering her emotions through any partisan agenda. She has arguably become the 2016 race’s moral authority, which is why Clinton, in the most recent debate, repeated her widely quoted assertion that “when they go low, we go high.” That’s hardly accurate about everyone in the Democratic Party, the Clinton campaign or the Obama administration, but it’s a fair enough description of how the first lady comports herself.
观察这些画面，是为了理解米歇尔·奥巴马的力量。她没有为了话题而刻意行事，也没有通过任何党派议程过滤自己的情感。她可以说已经成了2016年大选的道德权威，这正是克林顿为何在最近的辩论中重复了她那句被广泛引用的话：“当别人往道德的低处走时，我们要继续向高处前行。”这句话不一定适用于民主党、克林顿的竞选团队或奥巴马政府里的所有人，但在描述这位第一夫人如何自我宽慰时，它非常贴切。
What a contrast to other political surrogates. What an antidote to all the crazy spinning. Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, is playing some parlor game to see how far she can travel from reality, how creatively she can gin up distractions and how subtle an expression — by turns bemused and beatific — she can wear. My favorite Conway-ism was that certain members of Congress shouldn’t upbraid Trump because they are guilty themselves of forcing French kisses on unwilling women. Translation: Let he who is without tongue cast the first stone.
这与其他政治代理人形成了鲜明的对比，也是对所有疯狂旋转的有力抗衡。特朗普的竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)正在玩一个室内游戏，为的是看自己能脱离现实多远、能在多大程度上创造性地制造分散注意力的事情，以及能流露出多么微妙的表情——或困惑或快乐。我最喜欢的康维主义是，某些国会议员不应指责特朗普，因为他们自己也犯过强行和女性进行舌吻的错误。翻译过来就是：人非圣贤，孰能无过。
Can you believe that she once marketed herself as a strategist who could help Republicans collapse the gender gap? Trump trails Clinton by 15 points among women, according to an analysis of October polls that Nate Silver did last week. At this point in 2012, Mitt Romney trailed President Obama by eight. “It seems fair to say that, if Trump loses the election, it will be because women voted against him,” Silver wrote.
你能相信她一度推销自己作为一名策略师，能帮助共和党消除性别差距吗？据奈特·西尔韦(Nate Silver)上周对10月的多项民调进行的一项分析显示，在女性中特朗普的支持率落后克林顿15个点。在2012年的此时，米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)比奥巴马总统落后8个点。“似乎可以说，如果特朗普在选举中失败，那就是因为女性投票反对他，”西尔韦写道。
How perfect. Misogyny will play midwife to history. After being treated by Trump as if they’re disposable, women will dispose of him — at the urging of the first lady, in the service of the first female president. They will let him know that no matter how much money he has or how big a star he is, there are places where his tentacles can’t travel.
多么完美。对女性的歧视将帮助创造历史。在被特朗普认为利用完即可丢弃后，女性将在第一夫人的敦促下把他赶出局，为首位女总统服务。她们将让他知道，不管有多少钱，不管是多大的明星，总有他的触角伸不到的地方。
Not all the Tic Tacs in the world could sweeten that fate.
全世界的的嗒糖(Tic Tacs)都无法让这个命运变得甜蜜起来。