WASHINGTON — Ten hours before terrorists struck Brussels, Donald J. Trump was on television describing his strategy for confronting the Islamic State: He would pound it with airstrikes, but any ground action must be taken by the United States’ partners in the region. He did not mention, if he knew, that this was a pretty close approximation of President Obama’s approach.
华盛顿——布鲁塞尔恐怖袭击事件发生10小时之前，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)正在电视上谈论自己在对抗伊斯兰国方面的战略：他会发动空袭，轰炸伊斯兰国，但任何地面行动都必须由美国在那一地区的盟友进行。就算心里明白，他当时至少是没提——这和奥巴马总统的策略非常接近。
But then Mr. Trump went further, saying that the American contribution to NATO — whose headquarters is in Brussels, smack between the airport and the subway station bombed by the Islamic State on Tuesday — should be scaled back.
但接着特朗普就更进一步表示，美国应该减少对北约组织(NATO)事务的参与。该机构的总部位于布鲁塞尔，就在周二被伊斯兰国袭击的机场和地铁站之间。
It was a surprising signal to Europe at a moment when it is under attack, and a vivid reminder of the risks of running for president in an age of terrorism: What sounds reasonably cautious in the evening can ring weak or strategically incoherent by morning.
对于正在遭受袭击的欧洲而言，这是一个让人意外的信号，它清楚地提醒人们，在恐怖主义年代竞选总统会存在什么样的风险：前天晚上听起来还算谨慎的提议，第二天早上听起来可能就显得软弱，或在战略上显得不合理。
Most presidential candidates, with rare exceptions, are tempted to adopt far more hawkish stances on the campaign trail than presidents do in the Oval Office, where they must confront the realities of building coalitions, sorting through conflicting intelligence and pursuing comprehensive counterterrorism programs. But in the current atmosphere, a strike like the one on Tuesday in Brussels rekindles every debate about whether the United States should use diplomacy, isolation or military might.
除了很少数的例外，大多数总统候选人的立场，往往比正在椭圆形办公室里那位总统更强硬，因为后者必须面对真正的现实，要建立联盟，理清相互矛盾的情报信息，要展开全面的反恐行动。但在目前的气氛之下，周二在布鲁塞尔发生的这种袭击，会重新激起所有有关美国是否该使用外交、孤立手段，或动用军事力量的争论。
Indeed, within hours of seeing images of the carnage in Belgium, Mr. Trump renewed his calls for a ban on Muslims entering the United States and for legalized torture to extract information from an Islamic State operative captured last week in Brussels. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas went beyond his promise of “carpet-bombing” to demand that the United States “empower law enforcement to patrol and secure Muslim neighborhoods before they become radicalized.”
实际上，刚看到有关比利时惨剧的图像不到几小时，特朗普就再度发出了他此前的呼吁，即禁止穆斯林进入美国境内，以及修改法律，允许刑讯逼供，以便从上周在布鲁塞尔抓获的一名伊斯兰国特工人员那里获取情报信息。德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)也突破了自己之前所做的对伊斯兰国进行“地毯式轰炸”的承诺，开始要求美国“授权执法机构在穆斯林社区进行巡逻，在他们变成激进分子之前就做好防范工作。”
Even Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who objected to Mr. Cruz’s idea, called on Mr. Obama to abandon his trip to Cuba and Argentina, though it was not clear what more he could do from the White House than from the secure bubble in which he travels.
就连反对克鲁兹观点的俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)，也呼吁奥巴马总统取消访问古巴和阿根廷的计划，尽管他留在白宫，也不见得能比在访问途中的安全交通工具和住所中多做些什么。
Hillary Clinton, while positioned at the hawkish end of the Democratic race, sounded mild compared with the Republicans scrambling to say how they would interrogate Muslims or separate them from the rest of the population.
尽管希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在民主党候选人中属于强硬派，但与争相表示要审问穆斯林或将他们与美国其他人隔离开来的共和党人相比，她的话听起来就温和多了。
A former secretary of state portraying herself as the steadiest, most experienced candidate to lead the United States and the world, Mrs. Clinton is promising continuity with the Obama administration. So she argued for doing more of what it is already doing: standing “in solidarity with our European allies,” tightening the visa and passenger-list systems, and making sure, along the way, to remember that “torture is not effective.”
这名美国前国务卿将自己塑造成在领导美国和世界事务方面最沉稳、最有经验的候选人，她也的确很有希望接替奥巴马，组建下一届美国政府。因此她支持加强现在已经采取的措施：“与欧洲盟友团结一致”，加强签证审核和旅客名单系统审查，与此同时，一定记住“拷问是没有用的”。
Mrs. Clinton was headed next to Silicon Valley, however, and she dropped some of the hard language she has used before in siding with the F.B.I. in the debate about cracking encryption on smartphones, falling back to finding a “reasonable path forward” for gaining access for investigators to encrypted conversations and text messages.
不过在破解智能手机加密一事上，她放弃了一些支持联邦调查局(FBI)的强硬言论，接下来要前往硅谷的克林顿现在采取了更缓和的立场，称要为调查人员获取加密的通话和文本信息找到一个“合理的途径”。
Mrs. Clinton’s aides said she would give a speech Wednesday at Stanford University detailing her plans to defeat the Islamic State.
克林顿的助手表示，她将于周三在斯坦福大学发表讲话，详细讲述她在打击伊斯兰国方面的计划。
“We’ve got to defeat them online,” she said on Tuesday in Everett, Wash. “That is where they radicalize, and that’s where they propagandize.”
“我们必须在互联网上击败他们，”她周二在华盛顿州埃弗雷特市说道。“他们是在网上煽动人们走向激进，那是他们进行宣传鼓动的阵地。”
The responses reflect the different primary electorates the Republican and Democratic candidates face. Republican voters overwhelmingly support Mr. Trump’s idea for a ban on Muslim immigrants, exit polls have showed.
这些反应也证明了，共和党和民主党候选人面对着不同的选民主体。投票后的民意调查显示，共和党的绝大多数选民都支持特朗普的提议，即禁止穆斯林移民美国。
But opinion polls have shown that most Democrats do not, and they remain deeply admiring of Mr. Obama — whom Mrs. Clinton has been loath to show up by responding more swiftly to international events.
但多项民意调查显示，大多数民主党人并不支持这种提议，而且他们依然极为赞赏奥巴马——因此克林顿一直不愿意在国际事务上太快做出反应，从而让他难堪。
Like Mr. Trump, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said his piece on Monday, giving the first detailed foreign policy speech of his campaign.
和特朗普一样，佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)也在周一发表了他的观点，第一次在选战中详细谈论了他在外交政策方面的想法。
But it was also notable for its generalities: He said that “the United States has the opportunity, as the most powerful nation on earth, to play an extraordinary role” in attempting “to put together a coalition in the region to destroy ISIS.”
但这次发言依然颇具他那显著的概括特征：他表示，“作为世界上最强大的国家，美国有这样一个机会，在当地组建联盟摧毁伊斯兰国”的行动中，“扮演特别的角色”。
To Obama administration officials, this is not a new idea. They have been trying to accomplish exactly that, often with less success than they would like, for three years.
对于奥巴马政府的官员而言，这不是什么新观念。过去三年，他们一直在努力达成的，恰恰就是这个目标，只不过效果往往差强人意。
The instant responses to the attacks in Brussels highlighted the tightrope that all of the candidates find themselves walking when the subject turns to combating terrorism. The bitter lessons of the Iraq war loom over the 2016 election, as they loomed over the previous three, and none of the remaining candidates are calling for a ground force to take on the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq.
这些针对布鲁塞尔袭击事件做出的快速反应，突显出所有候选人在话题转向抗击伊斯兰国时，都不免陷入一个的困境。伊拉克战争的沉痛教训所留下的阴影，还像过去三年一样，笼罩在2016年的大选之上。在余下的这些候选人中，没有一位提议派地面部队到叙利亚或伊拉克，去对付伊斯兰国。
Some of the harshest messages and vaguest plans have come from Mr. Cruz. His carpet-bombing suggestion was immediately denounced because he appeared to be advocating a war crime; carpet-bombing is, by its nature, indiscriminate. So he now focuses on sealing the United States off from terrorist groups. Thus his call on Tuesday for patrols of Muslim neighborhoods, perhaps the ultimate step in ethnic profiling.
这方面最为刺耳的信息和最含糊其辞的计划出自克鲁兹。他的“地毯式轰炸”提议刚一出炉，就马上遭到谴责，原因是他似乎在鼓吹战争；而且地毯式轰炸本质上也的确是一种不加区分的盲目行动。所以，现在他把重点转向了建立封锁线，以避免恐怖组织渗入美国。因此他在周二呼吁派执法人员在穆斯林社区巡逻，这可能是走向种族定性的关键一步。
Mr. Trump’s willingness to share his opinions over decades in the public eye has left a paper trail of noticeable shifts in his positions: from speaking approvingly of intervention in Iraq early on, to opposing it, to his seemingly dueling impulses of aggressiveness and isolationism as the Republican front-runner.
因为喜欢在大庭广众之下发表自己的观点，特朗普在过去几十年的明显立场转变是有书面记录的：从早期赞成在伊拉克实施干预，到反对这种做法，再到作为势头领先的共和党候选人所表现出的看似要与之决斗的雄心，以及孤立主义立场。
After the terrorist attacks last year in Paris and San Bernardino, he set off a storm of outrage by calling for a ban on Muslims entering the United States, and he repeated that call on Tuesday in television interviews after the Brussels bombings.
去年，在巴黎和加州圣贝纳迪诺恐怖袭击事件发生后，他呼吁禁止穆斯林进入美国，引起轩然大波。周二布鲁塞尔爆炸袭击事件发生后，他在接受电视采访时再次发出这种倡议。
He often promises to “knock the hell out of ISIS,” and in a debate on March 10, he answered a hypothetical question about whether he would heed the advice of generals, if they recommended deploying 20,000 to 30,000 ground troops to Syria, by saying, “I would listen to the generals, but I’m hearing numbers of 20,000 to 30,000.”
他经常信誓旦旦地说，“要把伊斯兰国打得满地找牙”。在3月10日的一场辩论中，他回答了这样一个假设性的提问，即如果军方将领建议往叙利亚部署2到3万地面部队，他是否会听从。他回答说，“我会听取将领们的建议，不过这里说的可是2到3万人。”
But on Monday, Mr. Trump suggested that he would reject any call to use ground troops, and appeared to suggest that he thought that American engagement could be effective even if it were limited to airstrikes — a view not held at the Pentagon.
但本周一，特朗普又表示，他会拒绝任何动用地面部队的请求。他似乎还暗示，他觉得哪怕只限于空袭，美国也可以有效打击伊斯兰国——五角大楼可不这么想。
“I’d get people from that part of the world to put up the troops, and I’d certainly give them air power and air support and some military support,” Mr. Trump said on CNN. “But I would never, ever put up 20,000 or 30,000.”
“我会找当地人组建部队，我肯定会向他们提供空中打击的实力，给他们空中支持和一些军事支持，”特朗普在接受CNN采访时说。“但我永远、永远不会派2到3万人过去。”