The Bloomberg administration has been pushing through more than $12 billion worth of real estate projects in its waning days, trying to solidify the mayor’s claim to having transformed the face of New York City and lock in plans before Bill de Blasio takes over Jan. 1.
布隆伯格(Bloomberg)政府在权力交接前夕，一直在努力推进一系列耗资总计120亿美元（约合人民币729亿元）的房地产项目。一方面，这是为了为凸显市长的确如他所言，改变了纽约市的面貌；另一方面也为争取在比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)1月1日上台之前，将这些项目通过。
The gusher of projects recently approved or on track for approval in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s final days include an outlet mall and a giant observation wheel on Staten Island, totaling $580 million, and a relatively modest $16 million building in Manhattan with 55 experimental micro-apartments, as well as a $2 billion residential complex on the Brooklyn waterfront and the country’s largest indoor skating complex, to be built in the Bronx.
在市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)即将离任之际，近期被市政府批准或提上待批议事日程的项目众多，其中包括位于史泰登岛的品牌直销购物中心和巨型观景轮，总计耗资5.8亿美元（约合人民币35亿元）；位于曼哈顿的一栋耗资1600万美元（约合人民币9714万元）的建筑，相对于前者没那么气派，内含55套实验性的微公寓(micro-apartment)；位于布鲁克林海滨的一栋耗资20亿美元（约合人民币121亿元）的住宅综合体；位于布朗克斯区(Bronx)的一座即将动工的、将成为全国最大的室内滑雪场。
Mr. Bloomberg has sought to remake the city’s landscape for the 21st century, pushing for higher-density development and higher-quality design and opening up the city’s vast waterfront to new residential, recreational and commercial uses. Nearly 40 percent of the city has been rezoned during the mayor’s 12 years in office.
布隆伯格一直致力于重塑纽约市的景观，使之符合21世纪的新气象。他推进了高密度的开发、高质量的设计，充分开放了纽约市广袤的海滨地区，使之用于居住、娱乐和商业用途。他在任的12年里，纽约市有将近40%的土地得以重新规划。
The man spearheading the efforts, the deputy mayor Robert K. Steel, and other officials have made it clear to the City Council, as well as to the real estate and construction industries, that they are determined to finish public reviews for a number of “legacy projects” before Mr. Bloomberg leaves office.
副市长罗伯特·K·斯蒂尔(Roert K. Steel)等官员是大力贯彻这些举措的排头兵。他们已向市议会及地产界、建筑界人士发出一个明确的信号——他们决心在布隆伯格离任前完成一系列“遗产项目”的公开审批。
The projects, which will begin construction well after Mayor-elect de Blasio takes office in January, also bind the new mayor to the old mayor’s agenda, at least for a while. By Dec. 31, some projects, like a $1.2 billion Hudson Yards office tower and a $1.7 billion Hunter College and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center complex, will have reached the point that they cannot be stopped or modified.
这些项目会在新市长当选人白思豪1月掌权后开始动工，它们还会使新市长受到现任市长施政纲领的制约，这种情况至少会持续一段时间。到12月31日时，有些项目将进展到无法停止或变更的地步，比如耗资12亿美元（约合人民币73亿元）的哈德逊站场(Hudson Yards)写字楼，耗资17亿美元（约合人民币103亿元）的亨特学院(Hunter College)和纪念斯隆－凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)的建筑综合体。
Others, like a soccer stadium in the Bronx, a Coney Island amphitheater and a residential complex at the former Domino sugar factory in Brooklyn, could still be halted or changed. The Domino project has won widespread support, but Mr. de Blasio has expressed “serious concerns” about a proposed $350 million soccer stadium near Yankee Stadium because the Bloomberg administration planned to provide the soccer team’s wealthy owners with public resources, including tax exemptions.
而其它项目依然是可以被叫停或变更的，比如布朗克区的足球场、康尼岛(Coney Island)的圆形露天剧场、布鲁克林的一个原属于多米诺糖厂(Domino)的住宅区。多米诺项目赢得了广泛支持，但白思豪对洋基体育场(Yankee Stadium)附近新建耗资3.5亿美元（约合人民币21亿元）的足球场，表达了“严重关切”，因为布隆伯格政府计划为足球队的富豪老板提供公共资源，比如免税待遇。
The Bloomberg administration has also granted tax breaks worth tens of millions of dollars for the first phase of the $3 billion Willets Point project in Queens, for a proposed office tower on the West Side of Manhattan and for the outlet mall on Staten Island.
布隆伯格政府还给好几个项目减免了上千万美元的税费，其中包括皇后区耗资30亿美元（约合人民币182亿元）的Willets Point工业区一期项目、曼哈顿西城的一处正在营建的写字楼，以及史泰登岛的品牌直销购物中心。
“They made no secret about the fact that they’re working very hard to lock in a number of major projects for the future,” said Brad Lander, a councilman from Brooklyn. “De Blasio said everything will be reviewed. But some things can be reviewed and changed more than others.”
“他们毫不掩饰地传达出一个事实——他们正竭尽全力通过一系列面向未来的大型项目，”布鲁克林的议员布拉德·兰德(Brad Lander)说，“白思豪说，所有项目都将经过他的审核。但某些项目的审核和变更程度会比其它项目更大。”
For his part, Mr. de Blasio, who was the city’s public advocate before being elected mayor, opposed few projects during the Bloomberg era and embraced the notion of high-density development near transit centers. But he has made it clear that he will drive a harder bargain with developers to get the best deal for taxpayers. During his mayoral campaign, Mr. de Blasio also vowed “wholesale reform of our city’s tax incentive policies that give hundreds of millions of dollars to office towers on Park Avenue and unaccountable one-shot subsidies to companies who can do without them.”
白思豪在当选市长前是一名公共议政员。他很少反对布隆伯格时期提出的项目，支持在交通枢纽附近进行高密度开发的理念。不过他已明确表示，他将与开发商进行更加激烈的讨价还价，从而为纳税人争取最好的交易。竞选市长期间，白思豪还立誓要“批量改革本市的税收激励政策。现有政策为公园大道(Park Avenue)上的高层写字楼减免了数以亿计的税费，还不负责任地将一次性补助给予了无需补助的公司。”
Real estate developers and investors, who had a familiar ally in Mr. Bloomberg, will be watching for early signs of Mr. de Blasio’s agenda. A spokesman for Mr. de Blasio, Lis Smith, said he would “review every project with an eye toward maximizing affordable housing, good jobs and value for taxpayers.”
地产开发商和投资者将布隆伯格视为一位熟悉的盟友，而如今，他们将密切观察白思豪施政纲领的早期迹象。白思豪的发言人里斯·史密斯(Lis Smith)表示，白思豪会“审核每一个项目，审核的着眼点在于为纳税人最大限度地增加保障房、好工作和纳税价值。”
Only one so-called legacy project — the rezoning of 73 blocks surrounding Grand Central Terminal for taller towers — failed, when the Bloomberg administration could not win the Council’s support last month.
在所谓的“遗产项目”中，只有一个项目未获得通过，就是重新划分大中央车站(Grand Central Terminal)周围的73个街区，以便兴建更高的大厦。布隆伯格政府上个月未能就此取得市议会的支持。
Even though the Council approved the Willets Point proposal to build a retail mall and housing next to Citi Field in Queens, the project still has critics, and Mr. de Blasio could make it difficult for developments like Willets Point by slowing approval of construction permits or delaying the use of government funds.
尽管市议会批准了Willets Point项目，在皇后区花旗球场(Citi Field)边建设一座零售商场及住宅区，依然有人对此项目持批判态度。白思豪有可能给Willets Point这类开发工程设坎，放缓施工许可证的颁发，或延迟政府补助金的使用。
The Bloomberg administration has also pushed many small initiatives that critics contend should have been left for the next administration. The city recently solicited bids from private developers for a commercial complex within the Bedford Union Armory in Brooklyn, committed $51.5 million in public funds to the restoration of the Loew’s Kings Theater, which has been largely vacant for decades, and directed $50 million to a cultural center at Hudson Yards that has yet to be designed.
布隆伯格政府还推动了许多被批评人士认为本应留给下届政府的小项目。市政府近日面向私人开发商招标，拟在布鲁克林的贝德福德联盟兵工厂(Bedford Union Armory)内建造一片商业综合体；还承诺投入5150万美元（约合人民币3亿元）的公共基金，重建荒废多年的罗伊斯国王剧院(Loew's Kings Theatre)；并将注资5000万美元（约合人民币3亿元）在哈德逊站场修建一个尚待设计的文化中心。
Mr. Bloomberg has laid the groundwork for the transformation of New York by aggressively rezoning more than 12,000 blocks, almost 40 percent of the city, primarily for dense high-rise development. The Council recently approved the administration’s 124th and last rezoning, in Ozone Park, Queens.
布隆伯格为纽约市容的改变奠定了基础。他大刀阔斧地重塑了12000个街区——相当于纽约市40%的土地面积。其主要目的是大规模地建设高楼大厦。市议会近日批准了政府的第124个，也是最后一个重新规划项目，对象是皇后区的奥松公园(Ozone Park)。
Many projects are rooted in the early days of Mr. Bloomberg’s 12-year tenure and were steered by his first deputy mayor and chief development architect, Daniel L. Doctoroff. More than once, Mr. Bloomberg has said that Mr. Doctoroff, and by extension himself, had a “greater impact on this city, I think, than Robert Moses.”
许多项目都可以追溯到布隆伯格12年任期的早期阶段，统领全局的是他的第一任副市长、首席开发设计师丹尼尔·L·多克托罗夫(Daniel L. Doctoroff)。布隆伯格曾多次表示，多克托罗夫乃至他本人“对这座城市的影响比罗伯特·摩斯（Robert Moses，20世纪纽约及其市郊的建筑大师，被誉为近现代纽约的总规划师——译注）还要大，在我看来是这样。”
New York mayors have traditionally rushed through favored projects in the closing days of their administrations, and rarely has a new mayor upended his predecessor’s work.
纽约市长向来喜欢在即将离任之际大力推进自己喜欢的项目，而新任市长也很少推翻前任的工作。
Before leaving office in 2001, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani signed a secret deal to build new stadiums for the city’s two professional baseball teams, the Yankees and the Mets. Less than a month later, Mayor Bloomberg effectively scuttled the agreement, citing the city’s more pressing civic needs after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
前市长鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)在2001年离任前夕，签订了一笔秘密交易，拟为纽约市的两大职业棒球队——洋基队(Yankees)和大都会队(Mets)建设新场馆。不到一个月，新任市长布隆伯格有力地中止了这项协议，理由是，在世贸中心遭遇恐怖袭击后，纽约市有更迫切的公民需求。
But the Yankees and the Mets did get new stadiums, replete with city subsidies worth tens of millions of dollars.
不过洋基队和大都会队还是得到了新场馆，市政府还给予了数千万美元的丰厚补助。
Mr. Giuliani himself railed for years about Mayor David N. Dinkins’s last-minute deal to build a new stadium at the National Tennis Center in Queens. But he did nothing to stop the project, other than bar his senior officials from attending the U.S. Open there.
而朱利安尼本人多年来也一直对其前任戴维·N·丁勤时(David N. Dinkins)在最后一刻达成的交易——在皇后区的国家网球中心(National Tennis Center)修建一座新场馆——颇有微词，不过他没有采取任何举措来中止这个项目，只是禁止自己麾下的高官们出席在新场馆举办的美国公开赛(U.S. Open)。
“We haven’t tried anything wacky at the last minute,” Mr. Steel said. “We’ve worked hard to get a lot of things done. My focus, and the mayor’s focus, has been on jobs and housing. And lots of private money.”
“我们并未试图在换届之前做任何出格的事，”斯蒂尔说，“我们一直在努力促成很多事情。我的工作重心以及市长的工作重心始终是保障就业及住房，保障充足的私人资金。”
Besides, Mr. Steel added, “there’ll be lots of things that we began that the next mayor will reap. Projects we put in the oven will come out with the next administration, like Domino.”
除此之外，斯蒂尔还说，“我们做的很多事情将起到前人栽树、后人乘凉的作用。我们酝酿的项目会在下届政府掌权期间开花结果，比如多米诺这个项目。”
The City Planning Department has certified for public review a $1.5 billion plan by Two Trees Management to transform the former Domino Sugar mill on the East River into an 11-acre residential complex with office space, a park and 2,100 apartments, 660 for moderate- and middle-income tenants. There may be some additional bargaining over concessions from the developer before the Council votes on the project.
纽约城市规划局(City Planning Department)已为地产开发公司Two Trees Management的一个项目背书，该项目正待公开审核，耗资总计15亿美元（约合人民币91亿元），具体内容是将东河(East River)边的多米诺糖厂改建为一处占地11英亩（约合4.45公顷）的住宅综合体，带办公空间、一座公园及2100套公寓。其中的600套将面向中低收入的租户。在市议会对该项目投票之前，可能还会有进一步的讨价还价，以使开发商做出更多让步。
Mr. de Blasio, who has named only a few of his top officials, has yet to announce who will serve as his administration’s point person on economic development.
白思豪目前只提名了部分高官，还没有宣布谁会在他的政府当中担任执掌经济发展政策的要员。