Just before she found her dream fixer-upper in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, Antoinette Sneed left an open house in tears. Raised in an Italian-American family in Williamsburg, she had all but given up on finding an affordable place in Brooklyn.
就在安托瓦内特·斯奈德(Antoinette Sneed)在布鲁克林绿点区(Greenpoint)找到自己梦寐以求的待修缮住宅前，她有一次是从公开看房活动上哭着回来的。斯奈德夫人从小在威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)的一户意大利裔美国家庭长大，她差点放弃希望，觉得自己在布鲁克林找不到住得起的房子了。
“We went to one open house with 100 people there,” she said. “You had to wait in line to walk up the steps.”
“在一次公开售房日，我们跟100个人一起看了套房子，”她说，“你必须排队上楼。”
Ms. Sneed, a speech and language pathologist for a public elementary school in Bushwick, was convinced that she and her husband, Jason Sneed, would have to leave the borough entirely, but Mr. Sneed kept looking. One day he came across a listing on Craigslist for a two-family townhouse in Greenpoint, just 10 minutes from where Ms. Sneed’s parents lived in Williamsburg.
斯奈德夫人在布什维克(Bushwick)的一家公立小学做演讲与语言病理学者。她曾确信自己和丈夫杰森·斯奈德(Jason Sneed)必须彻底离开这个行政区，但是，斯奈德先生没有放弃。有一天，他在房地产网站Craigslist上偶然看到一个挂牌房源，位于绿点区，是一套两户式联排别墅，距斯奈德夫人父母在威廉斯堡的住处只有十分钟路程。
It was a 2,400-square-foot wood-frame townhouse with red vinyl siding on the facade, a style typical of this once-industrial waterfront community. The house, on North Henry Street, had a backyard, stained glass, pine floors and a beautiful staircase. It also had water damage, swan wallpaper and eight resident cats.
这套木构联排别墅面积达2400平方英尺（约合223平方米），立面采用了红色乙烯基侧板，其设计风格在这个曾是工业区的滨水社区非常典型。房子位于北亨利街(North Henry Street)上，带一座后院，装饰着彩色玻璃，铺设着松木地板，还配了漂亮的楼梯。不过房里也有水渍，贴着天鹅绒壁纸，还有八只宠物猫。
“The main floor felt like it had never been touched,” Ms. Sneed said. “Right away I could picture my dream house.”
“主楼层就像完全没有被人碰过一样，”斯奈德夫人说，“我马上就能勾画出自己梦想中的房子。”
The Sneeds made an offer the day after they saw it, in late 2011, and later bought the house for $761,000. Neither had any experience renovating a home, but they were unfazed. They changed the layout, but kept the rental apartment and many of the original details.
2011年末，斯奈德夫妇看了房子之后，当天就报了价。后来，他们以76.1万美元（约合人民币468万元）的价格买下了房子。两个人都没有装修经验，但他们并不担心。他们改变了布局，而保留了出租公寓和许多原有的细节。
The area, traditionally Polish, still retains that flavor. Polish is spoken by customers at traditional bakeries like Cafe Riviera, butchers and pharmacies on Manhattan Avenue, the main commercial strip. Although destination restaurants have arrived in recent years, newer residents still line up for kielbasa or pierogies at Lomzynianka and Karczma Polish Restaurant before a night out.
该地区是个传统的波兰社区，如今依然保留了波兰特色。在其主要商业街——曼哈顿大道(Manhattan Avenue)上，里维埃拉咖啡馆(Cafe Riviera)等传统面包房、肉铺和药房的顾客都说波兰语。尽管一些招牌餐厅已经入驻，但是新住户依然乐意在晚上出去玩之前，去Lomzynianka和Karczma Polish Restaurant餐厅排队享用波兰香肠(kielbasa)或波兰饺子(pierogies)。
The stylish bars and restaurants clustered around the Nassau Avenue subway station and near the rapidly developing waterfront, including the minimalist craft-beer hall Torst and the industrial-chic restaurant Glasserie, are a particular draw for younger residents and visitors.
拿骚大道(Nassau Avenue)地铁站的周围，飞速发展的滨水地区附近林立着时髦的酒吧，包括极简主义精酿啤酒酒吧Torst和别致的工业风餐厅Glasserie，它们尤其能吸引年轻的居民和游客。
“Everyone thinks Greenpoint is like a little European town — it has that vibe,” said Victor Wolski, a broker at Greenpoint Properties who grew up in the area. “There are a lot of people from overseas who buy in the neighborhood. German, French and Polish families are still buying in the neighborhood.”
“人人都觉得，绿点区就像一个欧洲小镇——它有那种风情，”绿点地产(Greenpiont Porperties)的经纪人、从小就在本地长大的维克多·沃尔斯基(Victor Wolski)说，“很多从海外来的人都在这个社区买房子。德国、法国和波兰家庭依然在这里买房。”
Greenpoint’s transit shortcomings — it is served by the G train, the only nonshuttle that does not enter Manhattan — no longer seem to deter new residents from moving here, although many still grumble about them. This summer, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority halted G train service between Brooklyn and Queens for about five weeks for repairs.
绿点区的交通条件有个不足之处，当地的地铁线路是G线，这是唯一一班不经曼哈顿的非摆渡车。尽管很多人依然对此颇有怨言，但这一劣势似乎已无法阻挡新住户的迁入了。今年夏天，大都会运输署(Metropolitan Transportation Authority)将G线从布鲁克林到皇后区的路段停运了五周左右，以便开展维修工作。
Earlier this year the crowdfunding platform Kickstarter moved into a brick building on Kent Street that once belonged to the Eberhard Faber Pencil Company. Several other large residential and mixed-use developments are planned for the waterfront. A major development, called Greenpoint Landing, will add 5,500 units of affordable and market-rate housing on 22 acres of waterfront over the next decade.
今年早些时候，众筹平台Kickstarter搬进了肯特街(Kent Street)的一栋砖砌建筑里。这栋建筑曾属于Eberhard Faber铅笔公司。还有好几个大型住宅及混合使用型开发项目，正在滨水地区规划。一个名为Greenpoint Landing的大型开发项目，在接下来的十年里将在22英亩（约合89030平方米）的滨水地段上拔地而起，将提供5500套平价和市价的住宅。
What You’ll Find
当地房源
The neighborhood, with a population of around 35,000 in the 2010 census, is bounded roughly by the East River, Newtown Creek, the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and McCarren Park, which it shares with Williamsburg.
根据2010年的人口普查，本社区内的人口有3.5万。其大致边界分别为东河、新城溪(Newtown Creek)、布鲁克林-皇后区高速公路(Brooklyn-Queens Expressway)和麦凯仑公园(McCarren Park)。麦凯仑公园为该社区与威廉斯堡的交界地。
Two- and three-family wood-frame townhouses, often with colorful vinyl facades, make up about 75 percent of housing stock, said Rich Awn, an agent at Miron Properties who lives in Greenpoint. There are a smattering of brick townhouses and brownstones, mostly in the historic district that runs roughly from Kent Street to Calyer Street, between Franklin Street and Manhattan Avenue. Greenpoint also has prewar tenement buildings, most originally configured into one-and-a-half-bedroom railroad apartments, but some have been renovated into two- or three-bedrooms, Mr. Wolski said.
里奇·奥恩(Rich Awn)是Miron Properties的经纪人，就住在绿点区。他说，本社区大约有75%的存量房是两户式或三户式的木构联排别墅。此外还有少量砖砌联排别墅和褐石建筑，它们大多位于历史街区内，其大致范围从肯特街一直延伸到卡尔耶尔街(Calyer Street)，夹在富兰克林街(Franklin Street)和曼哈顿大道之间。绿点区还有一些战前的公寓楼，其中多数房型原本是带有一间半卧室的列车式公寓（各房间就像火车车厢般连成一排，因此如果不通过一个房间就无法到达其它房间——译注），但是有些房子已被改造成了两居室或三居室，沃尔斯基说。
After the waterfront area rezoning in 2005, many luxury condos and rental buildings were built. Some disused factories were also turned into condos and rentals.
2005年，滨水地区被重新规划后，建起了许多奢华的共管公寓楼和出租型公寓楼。有些废弃的工厂厂房也被改建成了共管公寓和出租房。
The recession temporarily halted condo development in Greenpoint, but it has since rebounded. Last year, Mike Marotti, a 29-year-old information technology manager, and his fiancée, Jess Bergeron, moved into an 800-square-foot duplex one-bedroom condo with a backyard on Norman Avenue that Mr. Marotti’s father bought as an investment for about $661,000. “It had been built in 2008,” Mr. Marotti said. “They had a hard time selling, and then rented for a few years and then put it back on the market.”
经济衰退让绿点区的共管公寓开发暂时陷入了停滞，但后来，开发活动又复苏了。去年，29岁的信息技术经理麦克·玛洛迪(Mike Marotti)和未婚妻杰丝·伯杰龙(Jess Bergeron)搬进了诺曼大道(Norman Avenue)的一套带后院的一居室复式共管公寓，面积800平方英尺（约合74平方米）。这套房子是玛洛迪的父亲花66.1万美元（约合人民币407万元）买来作为投资的。“房子是2008年建的，”玛洛迪说，“他们卖不出去，把房子出租了几年，然后又重新投放到了市场上。”
What You’ll Pay
当地房价
Julia Segal, a broker at Miron Properties, said two- to three-family townhouses typically go from $1.3 million to $2 million, “depending on the condition,” up from around $750,000 to $850,000 in 2012. There are few single-families, she said, and they generally cost around $1 million. At the low end, buyers should be prepared to renovate, according to Mr. Wolski, of Greenpoint Properties.
茱莉亚·西格尔(Julia Segal)是Miron Properties的经纪人，她说，两户式到三户式的联排别墅一般要130到200万美元（约合人民币800到1230万元），具体价格“取决于房子的条件”，相比于2012年的75到85万美元（约合人民币461到523万元）有所上涨。她说，单户式的住宅很少，这种房型一般要100万美元（约合人民币615万元）。据绿点地产的沃尔斯基说，如果购买低端住宅，买家得做好装修的准备。
An analysis by aptsandlofts.com of 23 newly built one-bedroom condos sold this year showed an average price of about $632,000. New and prewar two-bedrooms, mostly over 1,000 square feet, have been selling at an average price of about $932,000, an analysis of 21 properties showed. “What a two-bedroom cost in 2009, is now what a one-bedroom costs,” Mr. Awn said. There are few co-op units.
aptsandlofts.com对今年卖出的23套新建的一居室共管公寓进行了分析。分析表明，其平均价格大约为63.2万美元（约合人民币389万元）。一项覆盖了21套房产的分析显示，新建和战前两居室住宅的平均售价为93.2万美元（约合人民币573万元），面积大多在1000平方英尺（约合92.9平方米）以上。“你花同样的钱，在2009年可以买到两居室，现在只能买到一居室了。”奥恩说。合作公寓很少。
One-bedrooms typically rent for around $1,700 to $2,200 a month in prewar buildings, Ms. Segal said, and $2,500 to $3,500 in luxury and new buildings. Prewar two-bedrooms go for around $2,700, she said; in newer buildings, the range is $3,800 to $4,400.
西格尔说，战前一居室的租金一般为每月1700至2200美元（约合人民币1至1.3万元）；豪华住宅和新房的租金一般为2500至3500美元（约合人民币1.5至2.2万元）。战前两居室的租金，价位约在2700美元（约合人民币1.7万元）；而在较新的楼房里，两居室的租金价位为3800到4400美元（约合人民币2.3到2.7万元）。