A DOZEN years ago I wrote a column not exactly endorsing Michael Bloomberg for mayor (columnists don’t endorse) but endorsing the idea of Michael Bloomberg. If a guy who built a wildly successful business wants to offer his services to the city, I argued, we shouldn’t let our prejudice against the rich stand in his way. Since then the idea, the C.E.O. as aspiring public steward, has suffered some setbacks (Mitt Romney, for one), but I feel pretty well vindicated by the mayor. As he would be the first to tell you, he will be a very hard act to follow.
12年前，我写了一篇专栏文章，倒不算是正式支持迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)竞选市长（专栏作者不能予以这样的支持），而是赞同迈克尔·布隆伯格当市长这一理念。我在文中主张，如果一名极其成功的商界人士希望为这座城市服务，那么我们就不应当让自己对富人的偏见成为绊脚石。自那以后，首席执行官成为有抱负的公共服务人士的理念遭受了一些挫折（比如在米特·罗姆尼[Mitt Romney]身上），不过，我觉得布隆伯格市长本人很好地证明了我的观点。正如他将迫不及待地告诉大家的那样，继任者将很难有所超越。
In coming weeks I intend to write occasionally about the race to replace Bloomberg — a field of a dozen candidates so uninspiring that a former congressman caught tweeting photos of himself with an erection to women he’d never met is near the lead in opinion polls. But let’s start by taking stock of the incumbent.
接下来几周，我准备在专栏中不时提及为取代布隆伯格而举行的市长竞选活动。参与这场比拼的十几名候选人都相当地乏善可陈，以至于在民调中几乎拔得头筹是一名前众议员，而此人曾通过Twitter向素未谋面的多名女性发出自己勃起的照片，而后遭到曝光。不过，我们还是首先对这位现任市长进行一次全面审视吧。
For better and occasionally for worse, the rarefied experience Bloomberg brought to the job defined his tenure. Most obviously that began with his billions, which allowed him to self-finance his campaigns and remain largely unbeholden to the city’s clamoring interest groups. Freed from the obligations of retail politics, he could staff his government with top talent rather than people holding political chits. With a few conspicuous exceptions, he hired people of passion and competence. He invited them to experiment, a rare thing in the risk-averse culture of government, but he held them accountable with obsessive attention to metrics. His City Hall, like his eponymous company, was built on the power of information. The great urban contraption that is New York City government has probably never been so well run.
无论好坏（偶尔是坏），布隆伯格带到市长之位的上流作派左右了他的任期。最明显的例子始于他的亿万家产，财富使他能够自掏腰包进行市长竞选，基本上不受纽约那些发出嘈杂声音的利益团体的控制。脱离了“投桃报李式政治”的约束，他可以在自己领导的政府中启用顶尖人才，而不必屈从于政治人情。除了几次明显的例外，他聘任的都是有激情、有能力的人选。他还鼓励这些人大胆尝试，而这在处处规避风险的政府文化中实属罕见；不过他也会偏执地采用计量分析来让这些人负起责任。他治下的市政府，与以他名字命名的彭博公司一样（公司的英文名为Bloomberg，但中文里为了区分人和公司将二者进行了不同的翻译——译注），建立在信息的力量之上。纽约市政府这个伟大的市政机构大概从未被管理得如此优秀。
He was not a model of inclusiveness. Whites are only a third of New York’s population, but nonwhites are scarce in Bloomberg’s bullpen. He has lived much of his life in a bubble of privilege, and he has an above-it-all demeanor that contributes to a sense, especially in minority and working-class precincts, that he lacks empathy. He can tell you, with a PowerPoint slide to back him up, that the aggressive police practice of stopping and frisking young men of color in tense neighborhoods has saved lives by keeping guns off the streets. He seems not to appreciate that systematic humiliation corrodes the trust between police and entire communities, and that there might be ways to take the edge off. Bloomberg can be stubborn and tone-deaf. He is easier to admire than to love.
在包容性方面，布隆伯格并不是个楷模。白人仅占纽约人口的三分之一，但他麾下的其他族裔屈指可数。生命中的大部分时间，他都生活在一个特权的金鱼缸里。他举手投足间会显露出一种居高临下的态度，这多少让人感觉，尤其是让少数族裔和工薪阶层感觉，他缺乏同情心。他会演示幻灯片做为佐证，告诉大家，在治安状况不良的社区，警方积极地拦截并搜查有色人种男青年能让街区里的枪支消失，从而拯救生命。他似乎不能理解，这种系统性的羞辱之举会损坏警方与整个社区之间的信任，他也不能理解，或许存在消除这种紧张状况的途径。布隆伯格有时会固执己见，对反对之声充耳不闻。他受人尊敬，却不易招人喜爱。
At least as important as his wealth and managerial acumen, Bloomberg brought to City Hall a largeness of ambition that makes the candidates for his job (and, frankly, many of his predecessors) loom small by comparison. It’s not just a matter of ego; Ed Koch and Rudy Giuliani had plenty of that. It’s a mind-set. Before he became associated with Wall Street, Bloomberg studied to be an engineer. Engineering is not just a set of skills. It is an approach to the world, a strategic sensibility different from a politician’s. It favors innovative solutions over incremental fixes, calculation over consensus.
至少与他的财富和管理才能同样重要的是，布隆伯格给市政府带来了一种远大的志向，这一点让他的潜在继任者（坦白说，还有许多前任）相形见绌。这倒不光是自尊心的问题，埃德·科赫(Ed Koch)和鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)就相当自负。这是种思维方式。与华尔街扯上关系之前，布隆伯格学的是工程学。工程学不仅是一套技能，而是一种看待世界的方式，一种迥异于政客的战略敏感性。比起循序渐进，它更崇尚创造性的解决方案，重计算而轻共识。
Bloomberg’s initiatives were not always well sold, but they were never small ball. No one since Robert Moses has so dramatically changed the face of the city. Recognizing that traditional manufacturing was not coming back, Bloomberg poured money into rejuvenating the decrepit waterfront. He restored and expanded parks and other public spaces — not just landmarks like Central Park and upscale novelties like the High Line. He persuaded the state to cede the city full control of Brooklyn Bridge Park and Governors Island, and played midwife to their rebirth. He rezoned not just plots but neighborhoods — a quarter of the city! — promoting growth in transit-rich areas, sustaining local character elsewhere, occasionally putting too much faith in developers but generally imposing order on chaos.
布隆伯格提出的计划并不总能赢得普遍赞同，但它们从来都不是小打小闹。自罗伯特·摩西(Robert Moses)以后，无人像他这样让纽约的面貌大变。认识到传统制造业不会回归，布隆伯格花重金改造衰败的滨水区。他复原并拓展了公园等公共空间，范围超出了中央公园这样的地标，以及高线公园这样的高端新奇去处。他说服州政府做出让步，让纽约市全面接管布鲁克林大桥公园和总督岛，并力促两地的重生。他重新划分了一些地区的土地用途，此举不光针对小块土地，而是囊括了整个街区，总区域占到全市面积的四分之一！并在交通便利的地区促进发展，在其他地区延续当地的特色。他偶尔会过于信任开发商，但大体上在混乱之上建立了秩序。
Critics complain that Bloomberg gilded Manhattan to the point where nobody but the affluent can afford it, that the service class was pushed to remote neighborhoods with laborious commutes. There is some truth in that. But as Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy at New York University who has been an informal adviser to the mayor, points out, “New York City needs wealthy people, because we tax them.” In turn, the people priced out of Manhattan (including young creative types) have brought new life — and new amenities — to parts of Brooklyn and Queens. Of eight million New Yorkers, Moss said, “1.6 million people live on Manhattan. The rest live elsewhere. And we’ve made elsewhere more attractive.”
批评人士抱怨，布隆伯格将曼哈顿打造得如此富丽堂皇，只有富人才住得起，而服务阶层（service class，包括公务员、白领和福利事业工作人员——译注）则被赶到偏远街区，每天要辛苦地通勤。这其中确有几分实情。纽约大学(New York University)城市政策教授米切尔·莫斯(Mitchell Moss)一直担任布隆伯格市长的非正式顾问，他指出，“纽约需要富人，因为我们会收他们的税。”作为结果，那些因高价而被迫迁出曼哈顿的人（包括年轻创意型人材）却为布鲁克林和皇后区的部分街区带来了新生（和新的便利设施）。莫斯说，在800万纽约人口中，“160万住在曼哈顿。其他人住在其他地区。而我们也让这些其他地区变得更有魅力了。”
Bloomberg recognized early that cities have overtaken national governments as engines of growth and innovation, and that New York competes for talent and investment not just with other American metropolises but with London and Singapore. He has made the city a world leader in sustainability with his devotion to green development and a campaign to get New Yorkers  (and as Matt Flegenheimer reported in Sunday’s Times, the rest of the world, too) out of their cars. His boldest assault on our asphyxiation by auto — a congestion pricing plan — failed in Albany. Instead, he raised the cost of parking, commandeered roadways for high-speed buses, expanded ferry service and made the city more bike-friendly. After last year’s superstorm, he commissioned an impressive blueprint for a more resilient city and has begun by rezoning vulnerable areas. “His response to Sandy at the human level was appalling,” said Joan Byron, an urban planner who is director of policy at the Pratt Center for Community Development. “But the infrastructure stuff is brilliant.”
布隆伯格早就认识到，城市已取代了联邦政府，成为推动发展和创新的动力，而纽约在争夺人才和投资方面，不仅要与其他美国大城市竞争，还要与伦敦、新加坡竞争。布隆伯格投身于绿色发展，并发起鼓励纽约人少开车的运动（且如马特·弗莱根海默[Matt Flegenheimer]在周日所报道的那样，他的相关项目遍布全球），由于他的付出，纽约已成为可持续发展的世界典范。他对我们一项名为“汽车窒息死”的拥堵定价计划提出了最大胆的抨击，但最后却没有得到纽约州政府的支持。他转而提高了停车费，征用一些车道作为高速公交车专用道，增加了渡船服务，并将这个城市变得更适合自行车出行。在去年的超级风暴之后，他批准了一项令人惊叹的规划，来增强纽约抵御自然灾害的能力，也开始针对抗灾能力较弱的地区重新划分土地用途。“他在处理飓风‘桑迪’(Sandy)时，从帮助民众的角度上来说很糟糕，”普瑞特社区开发中心(Pratt Center for Community Development)的政策主任、城市规划师琼·拜伦(Joan Byron)说。“但是在基础设施方面，他做得很出色。”
To bolster New York’s claim on the future, he has invested in our intellectual infrastructure, too. The planned Cornell applied sciences and engineering campus on Roosevelt Island should strengthen New York’s appeal to the tech industry. Shrewdly, he used that project to goad competing universities — Columbia and N.Y.U. — to raise their game.
为了增加纽约未来的竞争力，布隆伯格也对我们的知识性基础设施进行了投资。规划中的康奈尔大学(Cornell)罗斯福岛应用科学与工程分校应该能增强纽约对科技业的吸引力。他也精明地利用了这一项目来敦促康奈尔的竞争对手哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)和纽约大学，提高它们的水平。
Bloomberg’s father-knows-best approach has paid off with saved lives in the realm of public health. We take for granted now that our restaurants and bars and parks are smoke-free, but at one time Bloomberg was demonized as the Smoke Nazi who was going to put every saloon out of business.
布隆伯格“老爸最聪明”的手法已然见效，在公共健康领域，他挽救了许多人的生命。我们现在都很自然地认为，餐厅、酒吧和公园就应该是禁烟的。然而，我们一度将布隆伯格妖魔化，称他为禁烟纳粹，认为他会使每一间酒吧关门。
The city made it through a brutal recession thanks in large part to federal aid after 9/11 and Sandy, the bailout of the financial industries and a surging stock market. But any fair judge would say that Bloomberg played a significant part in the rebound. A believer in the wisdom of balancing revenue sources, he raised property taxes early on; when the recession shrank income-tax revenues, property taxes kept us afloat. He has bequeathed his successor a potential fiscal crisis in the surging cost of public-sector benefits, but he has also left a city better positioned to cope than, say, Los Angeles or Chicago.
纽约能够度过一场严酷的衰退，从很大程度上要感谢9·11和‘桑迪’飓风之后的联邦援助、对金融业的救援，以及飞涨的股市。但任何一位公正的裁判都会说，布隆伯格在经济复苏上做出了重要贡献。他相信平衡财政收入来源的重要性，一早就提高了物业税；当衰退减少了所得税收入以后，是物业税让我们得以维持现状。由于公共服务领域在福利投入上的增加，未来可能出现一场金融危机，他会将这个问题留给继任者，但是他也留下了一个相比洛杉矶、芝加哥等城市更有能力应对金融危机的城市。
“He was a very prudent custodian of the city’s finances,” said John Mollenkopf, director of the CUNY Center for Urban Research. “He didn’t just luck out.”
“他非常谨慎地管理着纽约的财政收入，” 纽约市立大学(CUNY)城市研究中心(Center for Urban Research)主任约翰·莫连克弗(John Mollenkopf)说，“他不是靠运气成功的。”
Bloomberg’s most consequential and controversial unfinished business is the public school system. He set the schools on a hopeful course: stabilizing the system under mayoral control, raising and enforcing standards, giving parents more options, among them charter schools that actually work. There is much more to do. Schools are the work of a generation, not an administration. Bloomberg’s great achievement was taking on the prevailing defeatist view that urban schools were unfixable.
布隆伯格尚未完成的最重要、最具争议的任务是公立学校系统的改革。他将公立学校带入了一个充满希望的进程：在市长的控制之下稳定了公立学校系统，抬高并执行相关标准，给予父母更多选择，其中包括运转良好的特许学校。这是一项远未完成的事业，改造学校需要一代人的努力，而不是一届政府。布隆伯格的伟大成就是，他敢于挑战那种普遍存在的认为城市学校不可救药的失败论。
The mayor’s third term, which began with a broken term-limits promise that many New Yorkers have not forgiven, was less successful than his first two, and it felt less successful than it actually was because the city has developed a bit of Bloomberg fatigue. By now, many New Yorkers are ready for a little more consensus, a little less lecturing, a little more attention to those at the bottom. But Bloomberg leaves behind a great 21st-century city, a dauntingly high bar for his successor and a pretty good argument for noblesse oblige.
布隆伯格的第三个市长任期打破了他曾承诺的任期限制，很多纽约人至今无法释怀，他的第三任期不如前两届成功。人们感觉他不太成功，实际情况却没那么糟，这是因为纽约人已对他有点儿厌倦。如今，许多纽约人已经准备好面对一个不同的未来：多一点共识、少一点说教、对社会底层更多一点关注。但是，布隆伯格留下了一个伟大的21世纪城市，一个对他的继任来说似乎高不可攀的标杆，以及一个很好的示例：位高则任重。