BRUSSELS — After a dramatic security sweep late Sunday marked by gunfire and the deployment of soldiers in the historic center of the Belgian capital, the authorities here announced early Monday that 16 people had been arrested in a joint police and military operation to try to head off what the country’s prime minister earlier described as a “serious and imminent” threat of a Paris-style terrorist assault.
布鲁塞尔——周日晚上，比利时首都进行了一次惹人注目的安全大突袭，军人部署到历史悠久的市中心地带，不时有枪声响起。布鲁塞尔当局本周一凌晨宣布，警察和军方的这次联合行动逮捕了16人。比利时首相之前表示，巴黎恐怖袭击式的威胁“严重而迫在眉睫”，而这次行动旨在消除这样的威胁。
Belgian security forces made 19 raids in the Brussels region on Sunday and three in the southern Belgian town of Charleroi, Eric Van der Sjipt, a magistrate and spokesman for the federal prosecutor’s office, said at a late-night news conference. Backed by heavily armed soldiers, the police also sealed off at least two areas of central Brussels, including streets around the city’s medieval central square, the Grand Place, a major tourist attraction.
比利时联邦检察部门的发言人、裁判官埃里克·范德吉普特(Eric Van der Sjipt)在深夜的新闻发布会上表示，比利时安全部队周日在布鲁塞尔地区进行了19次突击行动，在该国南部小镇沙勒罗瓦进行了三次。在全副武装的军人的支援下，警方还封锁了布鲁塞尔市中心的至少两个区域，其中包括该城大广场(Grand Place)周围的街道。这是布鲁塞尔中心的一座广场，始建于中世纪，为著名旅游景点。
But the main target of the clampdown, Salah Abdeslam, one of the gunmen in the Nov. 13 Paris attacks, was not among those arrested, Mr. Van der Sijpt said.
然而，范德吉普特表示，本次突击行动的主要目标萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)尚未被捕获。此人是11月13日巴黎袭击案的凶手之一。
The Belgian news media reported Sunday that Mr. Abdeslam, a resident of the Brussels borough of Molenbeek whose brother blew himself up in Paris, had been seen in the eastern city of Liege but had then again vanished. Mr. Van der Sijpt declined to take questions on that or other aspects of the Belgian investigation into the links between the Paris attacks and Belgium.
比利时新闻媒体周日报道，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆曾出现在东部城市列日，但之后再次消失。关于这一消息，以及比利时对巴黎袭击案和比利时之间关系的调查，范德吉普特拒绝回答任何问题。阿卜杜勒萨拉姆是布鲁塞尔莫伦贝克地区的居民，他的一个兄弟已在巴黎自爆身亡。
Sunday’s raids and show of force in the center of Brussels escalated what had been mostly low-key precautions there into a highly visible and often jittery military-style operation in a city usually associated with the somnolent activity of the European Union.
人们通常把布鲁塞尔与欧盟缓慢的节奏联系在一起，而周日的突击行动，以及在市中心的武力展示，把这里一向低调的预防措施升级成到了具有军事风格的行动，不仅非常显眼，而且常常带有紧张不安的气氛。
The operation, the biggest in the Belgian capital since the Paris attack, began shortly after a crisis government meeting and a decision to maintain for a second day the highest possible alert level in Brussels.
这是从巴黎袭击案以来，比利时首都开展的最大一次行动。行动开始之前不久，政府召开了危机会议，决定连续第二天在布鲁塞尔维持最高的警戒级别。
“We fear an attack similar to the one in Paris,” Prime Minister Charles Michel said Sunday at a news conference. “A number of individuals could launch an attack on several locations in Brussels simultaneously.” He spoke amid a growing mood of crisis as the authorities extended the hunt for Mr. Abdeslam, the only known survivor from three terrorist squads that attacked Paris, and for a widening number of suspects in Belgium linked to it.
“我们担心巴黎那样的袭击案会发生在这里，”比利时首相夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)周日在新闻发布会上说。“一伙人可能会同时在布鲁塞尔几个不同的地方发动袭击。”他发表此番言论的背景是，随着当局的追捕行动继续开展，危机情绪在日益高涨。巴黎袭击案三组恐怖分子中唯一已知的幸存者阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，以及人数不断扩大的与该案有关的比利时嫌疑人，都是当局追捕的对象。