Brussels Airport shut down after the terrorist attacks in the city this morning and will remain closed on Wednesday, according to a statement on the airport’s site.
布鲁塞尔机场在该市遭到恐怖袭击之后关闭。据该机场网站的一项声明称，周三机场仍将关闭。
Airlines are responding to the attacks and the closure by implementing change and refund policies for passengers with tickets arriving at or departing from Belgium’s capital city.
多家航空公司对恐怖袭击和机场关闭做出回应，对计划飞往比利时首都或从那里出发的乘客执行改签和退款政策。
Air France will allow passengers holding a ticket from or to Brussels for travel between March 22 and 31 to postpone their trip until March 31 for no extra cost in the same ticketed cabin; these changes must be made by March 27.
法国航空公司(Air France)将允许持有3月22日至31日布鲁塞尔出发或到达机票的乘客推迟旅行，最晚可以推迟到3月31日，同等机舱推迟不收取额外费用。改签必须在3月27日前完成。
Those who want to postpone their trip beyond March 31, wish to change their origin or destination or no longer want to travel at all are eligible for a nonrefundable voucher valid for one year on Air France, KLM or HOP, a subsidiary of Air France.
乘客若想把飞行日期改至3月31日之后，或想更改出发地或目的地，甚至想彻底取消行程的话，可以获得有效期为一年的不可退款代金券，用于购买法航、荷兰皇家航空公司(KLM)或法航下属的奥普航空公司(HOP)的机票。
KLM said that passengers holding a ticket from or to Brussels for travel between March 22 and 31 can postpone their trip until March 31 and must rebook by March 27 without paying a change fee. They can also change their destination and use the full value of their original tickets for new tickets on KLM, Air France and/or Delta Air Lines without paying a change fee. (Air France, KLM and Delta code share.)
荷兰皇家航空公司称，持有3月22日至31日从布鲁塞尔起飞或前往布鲁塞尔的机票的乘客可以把旅行最晚推迟到31日，必须在3月27日之前改签，不必支付改签费。这些乘客也可以更改目的地，用原机票的全款购买荷航、法航和（或）达美航空公司(Delta Air Lines)的新机票，不必支付改签费（法航、荷航和达美代码共享）。
In addition, they are entitled to a full refund if they are scheduled to travel to, from or through Brussels between March 22 and 31 if their flight was canceled by these airlines or delayed for more than three hours, and they did not travel.
另外，如果乘客预定在3月22日至31日之间飞往布鲁塞尔、从布鲁塞尔起飞或中转，可是航班被这几家航空公司取消或延误超过3小时，且最终未能飞行，那么可以获得全额退款。
If they bought their ticket on KLM.com, a KLM ticket office or through KLM telephone reservations, and the ticket number starts with 074, they can apply for a refund online. For tickets purchased from a travel agent, travelers should contact that agent directly.
如果机票是通过荷航网站KLM.com、售票处或预订电话购买的，且机票号以074开头，可在线申请退款。如果机票是通过旅行社购买的，就必须直接与旅行社联系。
Lufthansa had two flights from Frankfurt and Munich on the way to Brussels when the attacks happened; these were rerouted to Liège or Cologne. Customers who have a ticket for a flight to and from Brussels between March 22 and 28 are permitted one rebooking or cancellation free of charge; this policy is valid for all airlines that are part of the Lufthansa Group — Austrian Airlines, Lufthansa, Brussels Airlines, Swiss and Eurowings.
袭击发生时，德国汉莎航空公司(Lufthansa)有两个分别从法兰克福和慕尼黑出发的航班正在飞往布鲁塞尔途中。这两个航班改为在列日或科隆降落。持有3月22日至28日前往布鲁塞尔或从布鲁塞尔出发的机票的顾客可以免费改签一次或取消行程。这一政策适用于汉莎集团(Lufthansa Group)旗下所有航空公司，包括奥地利航空公司(Austrian Airlines)、汉莎航空公司、布鲁塞尔航空公司(Brussels Airlines)、瑞士航空公司(Swiss)和欧洲之翼航空公司(Eurowings)。
United Airlines had two arrivals scheduled from the United States to Brussels this morning. The first, Flight 950 from Washington Dulles, arrived at 7:01 a.m., and customers deplaned normally at the gate. The second, Flight 999 from Newark Liberty, was rerouted to a remote location, according to a spokesman, Charles Hobart. As of yet, the airline hasn’t announced any policies on refunds and changes.
今天上午，美国联合航空公司(United Airlines)有两个从美国飞往布鲁塞尔的航班。第一个是从华盛顿杜勒斯机场(Washington Dulles)起飞的950次航班，到达时间是上午7点01分，乘客正常下机。第二个是从纽瓦克自由国际机场(Newark Liberty)起飞的999次航班。该公司的发言人查尔斯·霍巴特(Charles Hobart)称，999次航班改飞至一个离布鲁塞尔较远的地方。到目前为止，该航空公司还没有宣布关于退款和改签的任何政策。
Delta Air Lines also had one landing in Brussels this morning — Flight DL80 from Atlanta; a second flight to the city from John F. Kennedy Airport in New York was diverted to Amsterdam. Also, Delta customers with tickets to, from or through Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris between March 22 and 31 are entitled to a refund if their flight is canceled or significantly delayed. Even if their flight isn’t canceled, they may make a one-time change to their ticket without a penalty, but changes must be made on or before March 27. The change fee will be waived for travel rescheduled after March 31, but a difference in fare may apply.
今天早上，达美航空也有一个航班抵达布鲁塞尔——从亚特兰大起飞的DL80航班。从纽约肯尼迪机场(John F. Kennedy Airport)飞往布鲁塞尔的第二个航班改飞至阿姆斯特丹。同样的，若已购买达美航空公司3月22日至31在布鲁塞尔起飞、中转或前往布鲁塞尔的机票，但航班被取消或严重延误，可申请退款。即便航班没有取消，也可免费改签一次，不过，改签必须在3月27日（含）之前完成。改签至3月31日之后飞行的乘客可免于支付改签费，但要支付票价差额。
Meanwhile, one airline isn’t being as accommodating to its customers in Brussels looking to leave: the British newspaper The Independent reported today that Ryanair told a group of 28 British passengers in Brussels who wanted to change their flights out of the city from Wednesday to this evening that the charge for the switch would be £214 (about $308) each, a total of almost £6,000. The group chose not to make the change, according to The Independent.
相比之下，还有一家航空公司没有这样照顾想从布鲁塞尔离开的顾客：今天，英国报纸《独立报》(The Independent)报道称，瑞安航空公司(Ryanair)对一群想把周三飞离这座城市的航班改到今晚的28名英国乘客说，改签费为214英磅（约合308美元），这些人的改签费总计约为6000英镑。《独立报》称，这些人最后决定不改签。
Regardless of airline policies, travel insurance may protect Brussels-bound travelers, said Stan Sandberg, a founder of the insurance comparison site TravelInsurance.com. Many travel insurance plans offer trip cancellation coverage for terrorist attacks that are recognized as such by the United States State Department, provided the coverage is purchased before the terrorist attack, he said; the typical cancellation coverage will apply to travelers who are scheduled to travel within seven to 30 days of the attack.
保险比较网站TravelInsurance.com的创始人斯坦·桑德伯格(Stan Sandberg)说，不管各家航空公司的政策是怎样的，旅行保险可以保护计划前往布鲁塞尔的游客。他说，很多旅行保险承保因（美国国务院[United States State Department]所认定的）恐怖袭击而取消的旅行，只要保险是在恐怖袭击发生前购买的。一般来说，原定于在恐怖袭击发生后7至30天旅行的旅行者都可获得理赔。
“Unfortunately, cancellation coverage can no longer be purchased to protect against travel to Brussels, but for travelers with an existing trip cancellation plan who are already in Brussels, trip interruption coverage might be available,” he said.
“不幸的是，现在已经不能购买保险以保护前往布鲁塞尔的旅行，但是，已到达布鲁塞尔、且计划取消旅行的旅行者，也许可以购买旅行中断险，”他说。