PARIS — The “man in the hat” who accompanied the two suicide bombers who detonated their explosives at Brussels Airport on March 22, and who was seen in a surveillance video walking away from the airport, has been identified as Mohamed Abrini, the Belgian prosecutor’s office said in a statement on Saturday.
巴黎——周六，比利时检察官办公室在一份声明中表示，3月22日布鲁塞尔机场爆炸事件中的“戴帽男子”已被确定为穆罕默德·阿布里尼(Mohamed Abrini)。该男子曾与引爆炸药的两名自杀式炸弹袭击者在一起，后被监控视频拍到步行离开机场。
Mr. Abrini is also suspected of providing logistical help for the men who carried out the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris. He was detained on Friday in Brussels after a nearly five-month manhunt and was charged on Saturday with participation in the activities of a terrorist group and terrorist murder.
阿布里尼还涉嫌为去年11月13日巴黎袭击的制造者提供后勤帮助。被追捕近五个月后，他于周五在布鲁塞尔被捕，并于周六被控参与恐怖组织活动和恐怖主义谋杀。
But on Saturday evening, the Belgian authorities announced a major breakthrough: Mr. Abrini confessed that he was the man in the hat and thus had also been directly involved in the attacks at Brussels Airport, which killed 15 people and the two bombers.
但周六傍晚，比利时当局宣布取得重大突破：阿布里尼承认自己便是那名戴帽子的男子，因此他直接参与了布鲁塞尔机场的袭击。那天的袭击导致两名袭击者和另外15人死亡。
“After being confronted with the results of the different expert examinations, he confessed his presence at the crime scene,” the prosecutor’s office said in its statement. “He explained having thrown away his vest in a garbage bin and having sold his hat afterwards.”
“看到不同专家调查的结果后，他承认自己在犯罪现场，”检察官办公室在声明中说。“他解释说自己后来把背心扔进了垃圾桶，把帽子卖了。”
If followed by further information, the new developments could help investigators identify any remaining members of the Islamic State’s network in Belgium and France.
若是再有进一步的信息，这些新进展可能有助于调查人员确认比利时和法国剩下的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)网络成员。
“It’s one of the most significant advances in the case,” said Claude Moniquet, a French former intelligence officer who works in Brussels. “Today we can say that all the important members of the Paris cell and Brussels cell are dead or in jail. Potentially it’s the end of this part of the story.”
“这是本案最重要的进展之一，”在布鲁塞尔工作的法国前情报人员克洛德·莫尼凯(Claude Moniquet)说。“现在我们可以确定，巴黎团伙和布鲁塞尔团伙的所有重要成员要么死亡，要么在押。这可能是这一部分故事的结束。”
But he cautioned that there still could be a few “minor figures” who had not yet been found.
但他警告说，可能还有一些“小人物”没找到。
The Belgian prosecutor’s office said three men in addition to Mr. Abrini had been detained and charged with participation in the activities of a terrorist network and terrorist murder.
比利时检察官办公室称，除阿布里尼外，还有另外三名男子被捕并被控参与恐怖组织活动和恐怖主义谋杀。
The prosecutor identified Osama K., who has also used the alias Naim al-Ahmed. He has been identified by Swedish terrorism experts and media outlets as Osama Krayem, and he lived in Sweden.
检察官指出其中一人是化名纳伊姆·艾哈迈德(Naim al-Ahmed)的乌萨马·K(Osama K.)。此人之前生活在瑞典，被瑞典研究恐怖主义问题的专家和媒体机构称作乌萨马·克拉伊姆(Osama Krayem)。
Osama K. was the second person involved in the attack on the Maelbeek subway station in Brussels on March 22, the prosecutor’s office said. Video footage at the station captured images of a man who accompanied Khalid el-Bakraoui, who detonated the bomb, killing himself and 17 others. Until Saturday, the second man had not been identified.
检察官办公室称，乌萨马·K是涉嫌3月22日布鲁塞尔马尔比克(Maelbeek)地铁站袭击案的第二人。地铁站的监控视频捕捉到了一名男子和引爆炸弹的哈立德·巴克拉维(Khalid el-Bakraoui)在一起的画面。那起爆炸导致巴克拉维和另外17人死亡。在周六之前，这第二名男子的身份一直未确定。
Video cameras at a Brussels mall also captured footage of the same man buying the bags used to hold the explosives.
布鲁塞尔一家购物中心的监控也捕捉到了这名男子购买用来装炸药的袋子的画面。
The third man charged is Hervé B. M., 25, a Rwandan citizen who was arrested with Osama K. and who is believed to have helped Mr. Abrini and Osama K.
第三名被告是25岁的卢旺达人埃尔·B·M(Hervé B. M.)。他是和乌萨马·K一同被捕的，据信为阿布里尼和乌萨马·K提供了帮助。
A fourth man who was arrested Friday, Bilal E. M., 27, was also charged with terrorist murder and participation in the activities of a terrorist group. Officials say he is suspected of aiding Mr. Abrini and Osama K.
第四个人是周五被捕的比拉勒·E·M(Bilal E. M.)。他也被控恐怖主义谋杀和参与恐怖组织活动。官方称他涉嫌协助阿布里尼和乌萨马·K。
Two other men who were detained with Mr. Abrini on Friday were released.
周五当天和阿布里尼一同被捕的另外两名男子已被释放。
Mr. Abrini’s capture is almost as important as that of Salah Abdeslam, the 10th man directly involved in the November Paris attacks and the only one who survived. Mr. Abdeslam was captured on March 18 in the Molenbeek district of Brussels, just a 10-minute walk from his mother’s house.
阿布里尼被捕几乎和萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)的被捕一样重要。后者是第十个直接参与去年11月巴黎袭击的男子，也是唯一活下来的参与者。3月18日，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆在布鲁塞尔莫伦贝克区离他母亲的住处步行10分钟路程的地方被捕。
Mr. Abdeslam and Mr. Abrini — friends who grew up together in Molenbeek — are both believed to have provided logistical support for the attacks in and around Paris, which killed 130 people.
阿卜杜勒萨拉姆和阿布里尼是一起在莫伦贝克长大的朋友。两人据信为巴黎市内及周边的袭击提供了后勤支持。巴黎的袭击造成130人死亡。
Mr. Abdeslam had been expected to take a direct role in the Paris attacks and had been equipped with a suicide vest that he decided not to detonate, he told investigators after his capture.
被捕后，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆告诉调查人员，策划者希望他直接参与巴黎袭击，并为他配备了自杀背心，但他决定不引爆背心。
Mr. Abrini’s story and the full scope of his role are not yet clear, but he appears to be one of the links between the Paris and Brussels attacks. He was seen in surveillance footage with some of the Paris attackers in November as they traveled from the Brussels area to Paris to organize logistics for the attacks and also on the trip transporting some of the attackers to Paris.
目前对阿布里尼的背景和身份尚未有全面了解，但他似乎是巴黎和布鲁塞尔袭击之间的联系之一。监控画面显示，去年11月，他和巴黎袭击的部分制造者一同从布鲁塞尔前往巴黎，为袭击做后勤准备，还曾与部分袭击者同行，将他们送到巴黎。
In addition, his DNA and fingerprints were found in a house in the Schaerbeek section of Brussels that was used to prepare at least some of the suicide vests for the Paris attacks.
此外，布鲁塞尔斯哈尔贝克区一处房屋里也发现了阿布里尼的DNA和指纹。巴黎袭击中所用的自杀背心中，至少部分是在这所房屋里制作的。
He was in the apartment on Rue Max Roos in the Schaerbeek district of Brussels where the explosives were made — investigators found his fingerprints and DNA there — and he left for the airport with Najim Laachraoui, who is believed to have been the person who made the explosives, and Ibrahim el-Bakraoui; both of those men were killed when they detonated their explosives at the airport. The three men are seen in airport surveillance video footage pushing their bags on carts through the departures hall.
他也去过布鲁塞尔斯哈尔贝克区马克斯鲁斯大街(Rue Max Roos)一处被用来制作炸药的公寓。调查人员在那里发现了他的指纹和DNA。他和据信制造了炸药的纳吉姆·拉沙劳伊(Najim Laachraoui)及易卜拉欣·巴克拉维(Ibrahim el-Bakraoui)一同前往机场。在机场，拉沙劳伊和巴克拉维在引爆炸药后丧命。机场的监控画面显示，他们三人用行李车推着几个包，走在候机大厅中。