Michael R. Bloomberg will reassume the leadership of his business empire only eight months after ending his final term as mayor of New York.
在他的最后一个纽约市长任期结束仅仅八个月后，迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)将再次统领他的商业帝国。
Late Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg told close confidants and senior executives of Bloomberg L.P., a financial data and media company, that Daniel L. Doctoroff, its chief executive and a longtime friend and lieutenant, would leave the company at the end of the year and that he would take over.
本周三晚些时候，布隆伯格告诉一些密友，金融数据和媒体公司彭博资讯(Bloomberg L.P.)的首席执行官丹尼尔·L·多克托罗夫(Daniel L. Doctoroff)今年年底将离开该公司，由他接手。多克托罗夫是布隆伯格的老朋友和副手。
For years, Mr. Bloomberg had insisted that he had no intention of returning full time to the company he founded.
多年来，布隆伯格一直坚称，他不打算回到自己创办的这家公司做全职工作。
When he left politics, Mr. Bloomberg was expected to devote most of his time to giving away his $32.8 billion fortune. Those philanthropic efforts — on issues like gun control, immigration and public health — were supposed to take up much of his time and he would “most likely spend a few hours a day working from his new desk on the fifth floor,” at Bloomberg’s offices, according to a memo Mr. Doctoroff sent employees in January.
离开政坛时，人们推测布隆伯格会把大部分时间放在慈善工作上，他拥有328亿美元的财富。这些慈善活动——涉及枪支管制、移民和公共健康等问题——应该会占用他的大量时间，多克托罗夫在今年1月给员工的一份备忘录中说，他“很可能每天只花少许时间”在彭博公司办公楼第五层他的新办公桌前。
But in recent months, Mr. Bloomberg — who still owns 88 percent of the company — has become an increasing presence at Bloomberg’s Lexington Avenue headquarters. Those “few hours” soon turned into six and seven hours a day with Mr. Bloomberg taking a hands-on role in meetings and strategy decisions. Mr. Doctoroff, a former deputy mayor of New York and private equity executive, told Mr. Bloomberg about two weeks ago that he planned to resign, frustrated with how the leadership dynamic had shifted. Mr. Bloomberg urged him to stay and remain chief executive, but Mr. Doctoroff demurred.
但最近几个月，布隆伯格-——他仍然拥有该公司88%的股份——越来越多地出现在彭博在莱克星顿大街的总部。“少许时间”很快变成了每天六、七个小时，布隆伯格在会议和战略决策中发挥了实际作用。多克托罗夫曾经担任过纽约副市长和私募股权公司高管，现在这种领导机制的变化令他感到失意，大约两周前，他告诉布隆伯格，自己打算辞职。布隆伯格劝他留下来，继续担任首席执行官，但多克托罗夫不乐意。
Mr. Doctoroff, who remains a friend of Mr. Bloomberg and will join the board of Mr. Bloomberg’s foundation, explained his decision to step down: “When Mike decided he wanted to spend some time at the company, and then spent more time, obviously things changed.” He added, “It isn’t the job I had for the past six years. It’s his — he wants to be involved. He doesn’t want to consult with me on everything. I get that.”
多克托罗夫仍然是布隆伯格的朋友，他将加入布隆伯格基金会的董事会。在解释自己为何决定离开时，他说：“迈克想花一些时间在公司上，结果他花的时间比计划的多，那么显然事情已经起了变化。”他还说，“这不是我过去六年待的岗位。这是他的——他想参与事情。他不想凡事和我先商量。我懂的。”
“This wasn’t the plan,” said Mr. Bloomberg, sitting next to Mr. Doctoroff on Wednesday at a coffee shop on the Upper East Side. “It was his idea. If it was up to me, he would have stayed.”
“计划不是这样，”布隆伯格本周三说，当时是在上东区一家咖啡馆里，他坐在多克托罗夫旁边。“这是他的主意。如果由我决定，他就会留下来了。”
Mr. Bloomberg said he fell in love again with the company that he founded in 1981. He said that after vacationing for a couple of weeks in January and working on his philanthropy, he realized that he felt most excited by his work at Bloomberg L.P.
布隆伯格说，他再次爱上了这家他在1981年创办的公司。他说，今年1月度了一两周的假，并做了一些慈善工作会后，他意识到，最令他兴奋的还是在彭博公司的工作。
While Mr. Bloomberg said he did not plan to take the title of chief — “I hate titles,” he said — he intended to run the company for the foreseeable future. Still, he allowed that it was possible that he could hire a new chief executive if he were to decide to turn his attention elsewhere.
虽然布隆伯格说，他不打算要首席执行官的头衔——“我讨厌头衔，”他说——他打算在可预见的未来里主持公司工作。不过他承认， 如果自己决定把注意力转向别处，可能也会聘请一位新的首席执行官。
He will take charge of a company that is significantly bigger and more powerful than the one he left more than a decade ago, but it also perhaps faces more challenges. Bloomberg L.P. is at something of a crossroads, developing new businesses in the hopes of making it more accessible to a broader consumer audience.
与他十多年前离开的时候相比，彭博公司现在的规模明显更大了，实力也更强了，但可能也面临着更多的挑战。彭博公司正处在某种十字路口上，它在开发新的业务，希望更广泛的消费受众能够更容易地获得它的服务。
Under Mr. Doctoroff, who joined Bloomberg L.P. just six months before the financial crisis flared in September 2008, the company’s revenue has jumped to more than $9 billion, from $5.4 billion. Subscriptions to Bloomberg’s signature financial-data terminals — which rent for about $20,000 a year — have grown to 321, 000, from 273,000, despite a shrinking financial sector. With many newsrooms dwindling, Bloomberg has added more than 500 reporters and editors during his tenure.
2008年9月，金融危机爆发仅仅半年前，多克托罗夫进入彭博公司，在他的管理下，公司的营收从54亿美元跃升至逾90亿美元。尽管金融业日益萎缩，但作为彭博公司的招牌业务，金融数据终端的订户数量已从27.3万增长到32.1万户；该终端的费用是每个订户每年约2万美元。很多新闻机构都在裁人，但彭博社在他任职期间，增加了500多名记者和编辑。
Still, the company’s growth has slowed, particularly abroad. And its news division endured criticism last year in the face of accusations that it withheld a report about government corruption in China to protect its business interests there. Separately, it came under fire after acknowledging that its reporters used the company’s terminals to extract subscribers’ private information.
尽管如此，该公司的增速也有所放缓，特别是在海外。去年其新闻部门遭到了批评，因为有人指责它拒不刊出一篇有关中国政府腐败的报道，以保护它在中国的商业利益。另外，在承认其记者利用公司的终端获取用户的私人信息之后，它也遭到了抨击。
Whatever fissures existed below the surface between the two men, both insisted that there was no fight over leadership. “The press always wants to write about a battle,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “There was not a battle.”
无论两人表面之下存在何种裂隙，双方都坚称，不存在领导权之争。“媒体总是想写斗争，”布隆伯格说。“这里没有斗争。”
With a wry smile and a laugh, Mr. Doctoroff said: “Mike is kind of like God at the company. He created the universe. He issued the Ten Commandments and then he disappeared. And then he came back. You have to understand that when God comes back, things are going to be different. When God reappeared, people defer.”
多克托罗夫先是微笑，然后笑出了声来：“在这家公司，迈克有点像是上帝。他创造了世界。他颁布“十诫”，然后他就消失了。然后他又回来。你必须明白，当上帝回来了，一切都将有所不同。当上帝再度出现时，人就会服从。”