At editorial meetings in Bloomberg L.P.’s headquarters this week, Michael R. Bloomberg gave clear signs that he would not be taking a hands-off approach as he returned to his old company.
上周，在彭博资讯公司(Bloomberg L.P.)总部的编辑会议上，迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)发出了清晰的信号，表明在返回自己的老公司后，他不打算采取撒手不管的策略。
Just two weeks removed from City Hall, and in his first days back at the media giant that he owns and that carries his name, Mr. Bloomberg surprised many employees by showing up at all of the 7:30 a.m. meetings where the day’s big journalistic decisions are made.
离开纽约市政厅才刚刚两周的布隆伯格，在回归由其所有、以其名字命名的巨型传媒企业的第一日，就准时出现在了当日早间7点30分的会议上，这让许多员工感到意外，那是公司制定当日重大报道决策的会议。
At the gatherings, in a glass-walled conference room, he spoke up to indicate what coverage interested him, like the traffic scandal involving Gov. Chris Christie in New Jersey and the romantic problems of the French president, François Hollande, and what did not, like the suspension of Alex Rodriguez from baseball, according to three people briefed on the meetings.
据三名了解会议内情的人士透露，在环绕着玻璃幕墙的会议室里，布隆伯格直白地表示了他对哪些报道感兴趣，对哪些不感兴趣，比如，让他感兴趣的有涉及新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)的交通丑闻和法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的风流韵事。对棒球手亚历克斯·罗德里奎兹(Alex Rodriguez)被停赛之类的事，他就不感兴趣。
This is not what employees at the company had expected upon Mr. Bloomberg’s return after three terms as the mayor of New York City. While in office, Mr. Bloomberg said publicly that he would never go back to running his old company. And only a few months ago, the company’s chief executive, Daniel L. Doctoroff, said in an interview that Mr. Bloomberg did not want “to get involved in the day-to-day at all.”
员工们没有料到，在连任三任纽约市市长之后回归公司的布隆伯格会这样做。在担任市长时，布隆伯格曾公开表示，他绝不会回去经营自己的老公司。就在几个月前，彭博资讯公司的首席执行官丹尼尔·L·多克托罗夫(Daniel L. Doctoroff)还在一次采访中说，布隆伯格不打算“插手公司的日常事务”。
Mr. Bloomberg’s dive back into the news side of the organization has not only caught employees by surprise, but it has also worried some that the division’s editorial independence could be called into question. Generally, the owners of news organizations try to avoid any appearance of influencing coverage, particularly when they have political affiliations.
布隆伯格重新插手彭博资讯社的新闻事务，这不仅出乎公司员工的意料，也让一些人对新闻部门的编辑独立性产生担忧。一般而言，新闻机构的所有者会设法避免出现任何影响报道的情况，当他们有政治倾向时尤其如此。
“There’s a discussion of the ethics of it,” said one current employee, who was at the editorial meetings and spoke on the condition of anonymity. “There’s this feeling that no one is there to say no to him.”
一名参与编辑会议的在职员工以匿名为条件表示，“大家有一些关于新闻伦理的讨论。现在有种没人能对他说不的感觉。”
Before entering City Hall, Mr. Bloomberg did not have a reputation for being overly involved in Bloomberg News. He sat on a floor with Bloomberg’s much more lucrative data terminal business, and was not known for attending editorial meetings.
在进入市政厅之前，布隆伯格并没有公开插手彭博新闻(Bloomberg News)业务的名声。他和彭博利润更丰厚的数据终端业务部门在同一层办公，没听说过他会参加编辑会议。
But Mr. Bloomberg has signaled that his interests have changed. Now he sits with the TV operation and media group on the fifth floor of the Bloomberg tower on Lexington Avenue and 59th Street, in the same cluster of desks as Justin B. Smith, the new chief executive of Bloomberg Media.  
然而，布隆伯格已经示意，他的兴趣变了。如今他在列克星敦大道和第59街路口的彭博大厦的五楼办公，和电视业务、媒体集团在一起，彭博媒体(Bloomberg Media)新任首席执行官贾斯汀·B·史密斯(Justin B. Smith)跟他在同一个办公区。
On Thursday, at a meeting with the staff of Bloomberg Businessweek magazine, Mr. Bloomberg spoke for 20 minutes about the publication and the news industry more broadly, according to people who attended. When asked if he would be interested in buying The New York Times, he joked that he was not, partly because he would not be able to influence the coverage, these people said. At the same meeting, though, he said that while he found that the magazine articles were sometimes too long, “I’m not going to tell you what to write.”
据与会人士透露，上周四在和《彭博商业周刊》(Bloomberg Businessweek magazine)的员工举行会议时，布隆伯格发表了20分钟的讲话，内容涉及出版业和新闻业，范围更加广泛。当被问道是否有兴趣收购《纽约时报》时，布隆伯格开玩笑说他没兴趣，部分原因是他无法影响该报的报道。不过同样是在这场会议中，他也说到尽管觉得《彭博商业周刊》的文章有点太长了，但“我不会指示你们该写些什么。”
A company spokesman, Ty Trippet, said, “After more than a decade away from his company, Mike Bloomberg enjoyed the opportunity to sit down with a wide variety of employees this week, including editors and reporters, to get a sense of the great innovations they work on every day.”
彭博资讯社发言人崔普特(Ty Trippet)说，“在离开公司十多年后，迈克尔·布隆伯格很高兴在本周有这个机会，包括编辑及记者在内的各部门员工座谈，真切地感受了他们的日常工作是多么地富有创意。”
Mr. Bloomberg’s return is likely to stoke conversations about how the company approaches its journalism. Kelly McBride, a journalism ethics expert at the Poynter Institute, said it would be very unusual for most media magnates to attend editorial meetings — and even more unusual for them to express opinions about coverage.
布隆伯格的回归很有可能会引发有关公司会如何做新闻的讨论。波因特学院(Poynter Institute)新闻伦理专家凯莉·麦克布赖德(Kelly McBride)说，对多数媒体巨头来说，参加编辑会议都是很不寻常的——更不寻常的是他们会对报道发表意见。
“The news meetings are places where the editorial vision is put into execution,” she said. “You want the editors to have confidence that they could protect the journalism without risking their jobs. You’d want the owner to be very circumspect and self-aware.”
“新闻会议是编辑理念得以执行的地方，”她说，“你想要编辑们有信心，他们能够在不需要担心丢工作的情况下，保护新闻工作的开展。你会希望老板出言谨慎，有自知之明。”
Even as Mr. Bloomberg was preparing to leave office, there was a lively debate both inside and outside Bloomberg L.P. about the proper role of the news operation.
早在布隆伯格准备离开市政厅时，彭博资讯公司内外就围绕新闻业务的恰当角色问题展开了热烈的讨论。
While Mr. Bloomberg created the news division in 1990, it was during his absence that the unit grew into a more serious journalistic outfit, with 2,400 editorial employees. Its ambitions were fueled by revenue from sales of the company’s $20,000-a-year data terminals.
布隆伯格在1990年就创立了新闻部门，但它是在他离开期间发展成为一家更为严肃的新闻机构的，共有2400名编辑人员。它在新闻领域发展的野心，靠的是每年收费2万美元（约合12万元人民币）的数据终端业务的销售收入。
Recently, though, terminal sales have slowed and there has been a reorganization of the newsroom, leading to the departure of some of the company’s most respected journalists.
但是近来，终端的销售开始放缓，编辑部也经过了重组，导致了公司一些最受尊敬的记者离职。
In the spring, the news organization was criticized after revelations that some reporters had used a function on the data terminals to monitor client activity. Then in November, several news organizations reported that top editors had killed an investigative article about a Chinese tycoon, saying they did not want to jeopardize Bloomberg’s ability to report in China. The company has said that the article was held only because it was not ready for publication.
2013年春天，有人发现一些记者利用了数据终端上的一个功能来监视客户的活动。事发后，彭博新闻社受到了批评。然后在11月，数家新闻机构报道，彭博新闻社的高级编辑腰斩了一篇有关一位中国大亨的调查性报道，表示他们不想因此断送了彭博在中国进行新闻报道的能力。彭博新闻社表示，编辑决定暂缓出版仅仅是因为文章还没准备好发表。
As mayor, Mr. Bloomberg generally stayed out of these sorts of issues. He maintained his majority ownership stake in the company, but was barred from participating in the daily operations.
在任职市长期间，布隆伯格基本上不干预这类问题。他一直是公司的主要控股股东，但是不能参与其日常运营。
In his final months in office, he did not convey any great interest in becoming involved in Bloomberg News or in the company more broadly.
在他任职市长的最后几个月里，他也没有对参与彭博新闻社或公司整体运作表示出强烈的兴趣。
In an interview with Forbes published in October, he spoke about his interest in working for political change in areas like gun control, immigration and climate control. “I’m not going back to Bloomberg L.P.” he said.
在福布斯(Forbes)10月份刊发的一篇专访中，他谈到了他有兴趣为了促成控枪、移民和气候控制等领域的政治变革而做出努力。“我不会回到彭博资讯公司，”他说。
On Monday, though, employees at the company received an email in which Mr. Doctoroff welcomed his old boss back.
然而，公司员工周一收到一封电子邮件，多克托罗夫在信中对他前上司的回归表示欢迎。
“When he’s in New York, Mike will most likely spend a few hours a day working from his new desk on the fifth floor,” the message said.
“迈克在纽约期间很有可能会每天在他五楼的新办公桌工作几个小时，”邮件说道。
On Wednesday, employees in the company’s Washington bureau learned that Mr. Bloomberg would be visiting the next day. Managers recommended that staff members clean up their desks so as not to catch the notice of the famously neat former mayor, according to employees.
周三，公司华盛顿分社的员工了解到，布隆伯格第二天将要到访。据员工们说，管理人员建议他们整理自己的桌面，不要引起那位素以整洁闻名的前市长的注意。
Mr. Bloomberg ended up postponing that trip and met instead with the entire Businessweek staff. He spoke about how much he loved the magazine, and how he wanted to see more things like it in the rest of the news organization.
布隆伯格最后推迟了那次行程，改为与《彭博商业周刊》全体员工见面。他表示他非常喜爱这本杂志，也非常希望彭博新闻社的其他部门能做出更多这样的内容。
The one public picture from his first week was posted on Twitter by the editor of Businessweek, Josh Tyrangiel, and showed Mr. Bloomberg, in a suit, making a point to Mr. Tyrangiel and Mr. Smith — looking very much at home.
布隆伯格第一周唯一一张公开的照片是由《彭博商业周刊》的总编辑乔希·泰兰吉尔(Josh Tyrangiel)贴在Twitter上的。照片中的布隆伯格身着西装，正在向泰兰吉尔和史密斯陈述他的观点——看起来非常自在。