Just before 5 p.m., wave after wave of smiling toddlers came bounding down the stairs, their grandparents from China breathlessly in tow.
快到下午5点时，一群群微笑的小朋友蹦蹦跳跳地下了楼，来自中国的祖父母气喘吁吁地跟在后面。
The parents soon arrived, weary from their jobs as postal carriers, police officers, restaurant owners and financial analysts. They whisked their children, fresh from lessons in math, Chinese and Spanish, into sport utility vehicles for the short trip home.
很快，孩子们的父母也到了。结束了邮政员、警察、餐馆老板和金融分析师一天的工作，父母显得有些疲惫。他们带着刚学习完数学、中文和西班牙语的孩子，钻进运动型多用途汽车，然后开车回家。
Such is the intergenerational tableau at IP Kids, a Montessori school that opened three years ago at the meeting point of Bensonhurst and Gravesend — long a hub of immigration in Brooklyn. Here, down the block from L&B Spumoni Gardens, the aging fixture of a once Italian neighborhood, and under the elevated train tracks, New York is transforming again.
这是一所名为IP Kids的“蒙特梭利学校”(Montessori school)前，三代人之间互动的场面。该校三年前开业，地处本森赫斯特和格雷夫森德的交汇处——布鲁克林长期以来的一个移民中心。这里一度是意大利居民区，在其典型店铺L&B Spumoni Gardens餐饮店的附近，高架铁轨的下方，纽约正在再次发生变化。
With Chinese immigrants now the second largest foreign-born group in the city and soon to overtake Dominicans for the top spot, they are reshaping neighborhoods far beyond their traditional enclaves.
中国移民现在已是纽约第二大“外国出生移民”群体，并将很快超越位居第一的多米尼加。中国移民正在改变纽约的居民区，影响范围远远超过了他们的传统聚居区。
Nowhere is the rapid growth of the city’s Chinese population more pronounced than in Brooklyn.
在纽约，没有哪个地方的华裔人口高速增长现象比布鲁克林更加明显。
As the sidewalks on Eighth Avenue overflow with new arrivals in Sunset Park, Brooklyn’s first Chinatown, and grocery stores proliferate along 86th Street in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn’s second Chinatown, immigrants have been pushing southeast toward the ocean. The newcomers have created satellite Chinatowns in neighborhoods that have long been enclaves for European immigrants: Bay Ridge, Borough Park, Coney Island, Dyker Heights, Gravesend, Homecrest and Marine Park.
日落公园是布鲁克林的第一个唐人街，第八大道的人行道上挤满了新来日落公园的人。本森赫斯特是布鲁克林第二个唐人街，这里第86街的杂货店数目激增，而移民也一直在向东南方向扩张，直到海边。湾岭、市镇公园，康尼岛、戴克高地、格雷夫森德、哈姆克雷斯特和海军公园都是欧洲移民长期聚居的居民区，而新来的中国移民在这些地方建立了小型唐人街。
“It’s almost like a snowball going on,” said Peter Kwong, a professor of immigration and Asian-American studies at Hunter College. “Once you get started in a certain direction, people tend to gain momentum, and they are moving farther along the subway line.”
“基本上就像是滚雪球，”亨特学院(Hunter College)研究移民和亚裔美国人的教授邝治中(Peter Kwong)说。“一旦你在某个方向起了个头，人们往往就会从那里开始蔓延，他们沿着地铁线越走越远。”
Bensonhurst has the largest number of Chinese-born residents of any neighborhood in the city, with 31,658, narrowly edging the populations in Flushing, Queens, and Sunset Park, according to a 2013 city report that offered the most recent data on immigrant New Yorkers.
纽约2013年一份市政报告提供的最新移民数据显示，本森赫斯特是中国出生的居民人数最多的社区，有31658人，比法拉盛、皇后区和日落公园的相关人口还略多一些。
New working-class immigrants, primarily Mandarin speakers from the province of Fujian, are flooding Sunset Park, Mr. Kwong said, while the residents of southeast Brooklyn tend to have come from generally more affluent areas of southeast China — primarily Guangdong province — or from Hong Kong.
新的工薪阶层移民涌向了日落公园，他们主要来自福建省，讲普通话，邝治中说，而布鲁克林东南部的居民往往来自中国东南部比较富裕的地区，主要是广东省，或者香港。
“This is the latest chapter in the evolution of our neighborhood that has deep immigrant roots,” said Mark Treyger, a city councilman from Brooklyn who was born in 1982 in Bensonhurst to parents who immigrated from the former Soviet Union.
“我们这个社区本来就有很深的移民渊源，这是其演化的最新篇章，”来自布鲁克林的市议员马克·特里戈(Mark Treyger)说。他1982年生于本森赫斯特，父母均为前苏联移民。
They come for the same reasons, Mr. Treyger said, as many other immigrants: more space, affordable housing, safety and good schools. But some came, they said, precisely to get away from their fellow Chinese as a way to ease integration.
特里戈说，这些人迁徙的原因和很多其他移民一样：更多空间、可以负担得起的房价、安全的社区，好学校。但是一些人说，他们迁徙是为了远离其他华裔，以便融入社会。
“For the kids and their education, we want less Chinese, so they can join society,” Hong Yeun Lee, 77, said in the basement of the Jay-Harama Senior Center on Ocean Avenue, where on a recent afternoon more than 200 older Cantonese-speaking immigrants played badminton and table tennis with abandon.
“为孩子和他们的教育着想，我们希望住的地方少一些华人，这样他们就可以融入社会。”77岁的李洪允（音）近日一个下午说。当时是在海洋大道的杰伊-哈拉马老人中心(Jay-Harama Senior Center)的地下室里，200多个老年移民正在热火朝天地打羽毛球和乒乓球，他们都讲粤语。
A recent tour of southeastern Brooklyn, from Bensonhurst to Coney Island, showcased the shifting landscape; the dense commercial streets gave way to two smaller strips of restaurants, nursery schools and tutoring storefronts, supermarkets, senior centers, bubble tea shops and pharmacies.
最近前往布鲁克林东南部时，从本森赫斯特到康尼岛，可到看到一些景象正在发生变化：密集的商业街中，出现了两条较小的店铺带：餐馆、幼儿园和课外辅导中心、超市、老年中心、珍珠奶茶店和药店。
Census figures show the remarkable changes taking place. Between 2000 and 2013, the foreign-born Chinese population in New York City jumped 35 percent to 353,000, from about 262,000. During the same period the foreign-born Chinese population in Brooklyn increased 49 percent to 128,000, from 86,000.
人口普查数据显示，一些引人瞩目的变化正在发生。2000年时，在外国出生的纽约华裔人口为26.2万人，到2013年达到35.3万人，增幅35%。同一时期，在外国出生的布鲁克林华裔人口从8.6万人增至12.8万人，增幅达49%。
Sam Tsang, 53, who considers himself the “mayor of Avenue U,” says he has lived in Homecrest since coming from China as a teenager. Now he imports Burmese rice, while his wife works for Councilman Chaim M. Deutsch, whose district includes Sheepshead Bay.
今年53岁的萨姆·曾(Sam Tsang)自诩为“U大道的市长”，他说自己十几岁时从中国来到这里，之后就一直在哈姆克雷斯特居住。现在他经营从缅甸进口大米的业务，他妻子的雇主是市议员哈伊姆·M·多伊奇(Chaim M. Deutsch)，其选区包括羊头湾。
Mr. Tsang greeted the 32-year-old owner of a new Chinese bakery like an old friend and the chef of a 10-year-old restaurant with barbecued ducks hanging in the window the same way. Both had come from Chinatown in Manhattan for similar reasons — less stress, less competition and lower rents.
曾先生像老朋友一样，和一家新开的中国面包店32岁的老板打招呼，也与一家开了10年，窗内挂着烤鸭的餐厅的厨师热情寒暄。面包店老板和餐厅厨师从曼哈顿的唐人街来到这里的原因类似：压力更少、竞争更小、房租更低。
“And fresh air!” said Tim Cheng, 59, the chef at the restaurant, 1818 Seafood.
“还有新鲜空气，”59岁的餐厅厨师蒂姆·郑(Tim Cheng)说。他为1818海鲜餐厅(1818 Seafood)工作。
Paul Mak, the founder of the Brooklyn Chinese-American Association, a social service agency, said newer Chinese enclaves were less likely to become crowded with restaurants and shops because families living in those neighborhoods tended to save more of their money “so that the next generation will be able to benefit.”
社会服务机构布禄仑华人协会(Brooklyn Chinese-American Association)的创始人保罗·麦(Paul Mak)表示，新出现的华人聚集地挤满餐馆和店铺的可能性要小一些，因为住在这些社区的家庭，倾向于多存些钱，“这样下一代才能受益”。
“They are in a situation where they only go out for dim sum once a week,” he said.
“他们通常一周只出去吃一次点心，”他说。
And in a familiar New York refrain, migration patterns have been driven by real estate. In the 1970s and 1980s, when Cantonese-speaking immigrants were arriving in Chinatown in Manhattan, housing was in such demand that although rents were as low as $200 a month, immigrants would pay a finder’s fee of as much as $5,000 to secure an apartment, Mr. Mak said.
在纽约，熟悉的情形再次上演，房地产推动着移民模式。麦先生称，上世纪七八十年代，当说广东话的移民来到曼哈顿的唐人街时，房屋需求巨大，以至于尽管当时的房租低至每月200美元（约合1200元人民币），移民仍会为了得到一个公寓而支付一笔高达5000美元的中介费。
As Chinatown became saturated, more established immigrants followed the route of the N train to Sunset Park, where apartments emptied when jobs on the Brooklyn waterfront disappeared. Small businesses opened along Eighth Avenue — in Chinese culture, eight is a lucky number indicating prosperity — and families moved to the surrounding streets.
随着唐人街逐渐饱和，更多已经定居的移民沿着地铁N线来到了日落公园(Sunset Park)，由于布鲁克林沿海地带的就业机会减少，那里的公寓空了出来。华人在第八大道(Eighth Avenue)两旁开设了一些小公司，家人也搬到了附近的街区。在中国文化中，八是一个代表财富的吉利数字。
By the end of the 1990s, Mr. Mak said, the neighborhood was so desirable that single-family houses were selling for $350,000. Many of the sellers took their windfall and moved farther southeast along the N and the D subway lines.
麦先生表示，到九十年代末时，该街区非常受欢迎，独户住宅的售价达到35万美元。很多卖家获得了大笔收益，并沿着地铁N线和D线搬向东南搬迁。
Raymond Chan, a real estate broker in Marine Park, moved to Sheepshead Bay two decades ago, buying a house for $150,000. Now he helps Chinese families move there from Sunset Park and Bensonhurst in search of larger plots of land. He said the prices of single-family homes in Sheepshead Bay and Marine Park ranged from $500,000 to over $1 million.
海洋公园(Marine Park)的房地产经纪人雷蒙德·陈(Raymond Chen)在20年前搬到了羊头湾，以15万美元的价格购买了一套房子。如今，他帮助住在日落公园和本森赫斯特地区的中国家庭搬到羊头湾，寻找更大的房子。他表示，羊头湾和海洋公园的独户住宅的售价从50万美元到逾100万美元不等。
While Bensonhurst’s main commercial strip has become dominated by Chinese merchants, Gravesend, Homecrest and Sheepshead Bay still have a diverse array of businesses, though the infusion of Asian stores is unmistakable.
虽然本森赫斯特的主要商业带已被中国商人主导，但是格雷夫森德、哈姆克雷斯特和羊头湾仍然拥有各种各样的企业。不过亚洲商店的涌入是毋庸置疑的。