Bloggers, commentators and the Twitterati quickly weighed in on the first Democratic debate, scoring the winners and losers. Hillary Rodham Clinton was the clear victor, according to the opinion shapers in the political world (even conservative commentators).
博客主、评论员与推特活跃用户对民主党总统后选人的首次辩论迅速发表意见，给赢家和输家打分。据这个政治世界中的观点塑造者（甚至包括保守派评论员在内），希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)是明显的胜者。
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont won some points for his integrity, while the others — Martin O’Malley, the former governor of Maryland; Jim Webb, the former senator from Virginia and secretary of the Navy; and Lincoln Chafee, the former Rhode Island governor and senator — were mostly viewed as having missed their chance.
佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在为人正直上得了些分儿，其他候选人是马里兰州前州长马丁·奥马利(Martin O’Malley)，弗吉尼亚州前参议员、曾任海军部长的吉姆·韦伯(Jim Webb)，以及罗德岛州前州长和前参议员林肯·查菲(Lincoln Chafee)，他们在很大程度上被人认为错过了机会。
Some suggested that another loser was the man still deciding on whether to run, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., as Mrs. Clinton appeared to be formidable. Others disagreed.
有人认为，由于克林顿看来势不可挡，另一名输家是尚未决定是否参加竞选的副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)。但也有人表示不同意这个观点。
“I’m still amazed the other four candidates made Hillary Clinton come off as the likable, reasonable, responsible Democrat.” — Erick Erickson, the conservative radio host
“那四名候选人让希拉里·克林顿在辩论中脱颖出一副受人喜爱、讲道理、负责任的民主党人形象，我对此仍惊讶不已。” —— 保守电台主持人埃里克·埃里克森(Erick Erickson)
“Hillary Clinton won. She won because she’s a strong debater. She won because Bernie Sanders is not. She won because the first Democratic presidential debate focused on liberal policies — and not her email scandal or character.” — Ron Fournier, The National Journal
“希拉里·克林顿赢了。她赢了，因为她是一位强有力的辩论者。她赢了，因为伯尼·桑德斯不是强有力的辩论者。她赢了，因为民主党总统候选人的首次辩论主要集中在自由派的政策上，而不是她的电子邮件丑闻或人品上。” —— 《国家期刊》(National Journal)的罗恩·福涅尔(Ron Fournier)
“One impression from Tuesday night’s Democratic debate: Vice President Joe Biden has no rationale to step into the race. If he’s been waiting until after this first prime-time test to see if Hillary Clinton collapsed, he must have seen for himself that she crushed it.” — Fred Kaplan, an author who writes about military issues and policy for Slate
“周二晚的民主党候选人辩论留给人一个印象：那就是副总统拜登没有涉足竞选的理由。如果他一直在等待第一次黄金时段检验后的机会，看看希拉里·克林顿是否崩溃，那他一定亲眼看到了希拉里摧毁这一机会。” —— Slate网站军事问题和政策评论员弗雷德·卡普兰(Fred Kaplan)
“Hillary was (astonishingly) much more likable and personable than everyone’s favorite crazy socialist uncle. She had few to no cringe-inducing moments. She deftly threw red meat to the base when presented with the opportunity without saying anything that would hurt her in the general.” — Leon H. Wolf, Red State, a conservative blog
“希拉里（令人十分惊讶地）展现出比人人都爱的疯狂社会主义大叔更可爱、更平易近人的形象。她几乎没有或完全没有发生令人尴尬的时刻。机会出现时，她能娴熟地激发大本营的热情，而不说任何影响自己总体形象的话。” —— 保守派博客《红州》(Red State)莱昂·H·沃尔夫(Leon H. Wolf)
“It was, without question, the climax of the debate. Hillary Clinton was defending herself against email allegations, when Bernie Sanders came to her rescue. In doing so, he not only demonstrated the decency that is the hallmark of his campaign but also proved that he’s no ordinary politician.” — Brian Hanley, The Huffington Post
“毫无疑问，这场辩论的高潮出现在希拉里·克林顿针对电子邮件指控为自己辩护的时刻，此时，伯尼·桑德斯站出来替她说话。他这样做不仅展示了他的正派，那是他竞选活动的标志，也证明了他是一位非凡的政治家。” —— 《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)布赖恩·汉利(Brian Hanley)
“Hillary Clinton won because all of her opponents are terrible.” — Ryan Lizza, The New Yorker
“希拉里赢了，因为她所有的对手表现都很糟。” —— 《纽约客》瑞安·利萨(Ryan Lizza)
“The former governor of Maryland needed a moment in this debate to break out of the 1 percent crowd. He didn’t get one. Oddly, O’Malley sounded the most like a politician of anyone on the stage even though he is the only one who has never spent any time in office in the nation’s Capitol.” — Chris Cillizza, The Washington Post
“马里兰州前州长在这次辩论中，需要得到一个能让他打破只有1%支持率的时刻。他没有得到这个时刻。奇怪的是，在站在台上的所有人当中，奥马利听起来最像一个政客，而在他们当中，他才是唯一的、从未当选过国会大厦两院的任何议员的人。” —— 《华盛顿邮报》克里斯·克里萨(Chris Cillizza)
“Intense and brooding. Had trouble getting in the mix or finding a resonant voice on issues, even in his foreign policy wheelhouse. Frequently expressed frustration about a lack of talk time, coming across as griping and grumpy.” — Mark Halperin, Bloomberg Politics, labeling Mr. Webb the debate’s biggest loser
“热切和幽怨兼有。没能在众人中有所表现，或对辩论的问题发出响亮的声音，甚至在他得心应手的外交政策上也如此。常对没有足够时间发言表示沮丧，给人以发牢骚和脾气暴躁的印象。” —— 《彭博政治》(Bloomberg Politics)的马克·霍尔珀林(Mark Halperin)称韦伯是辩论的最大输家
“Perhaps the biggest loser was the man who was not there — Vice President Joe Biden. While his draft committee ran a powerful ad showing the person and his values in Mr. Biden’s own voice, the fact is that Mrs. Clinton was just commanding tonight. Mr. Biden has to decide now and not kick the can down the road because of deadlines. I don’t see how he chooses to run now.” — John Zogby, a pollster, writing for Forbes
“也许最大的输家是那个没来参加辩论的人：副总统拜登。虽然促请拜登参选的委员会为他打出了强大的广告，用拜登自己的语言展示了他的人品和价值观，但事实是，克林顿今晚绝对占上风。拜登必须现在做出决定，而不是在最后期限前犹豫不决。我看不到他现在如何能选择参选。” —— 民意调查员约翰·佐格比(John Zogby)在《福布斯》上写道
“There is a very real opportunity for Joe Biden to enter the race after this first debate. Just like respondents in last night’s pre-debate focus group, people were deeply affected by Draft Biden’s emotional ad urging Biden to run. After watching the ad, 20 people indicated that it made them want Biden to run — just after seeing the ad.” — Chris Kofinis, whose company, Park Street Strategies, conducted a focus group of 39 undecided Iowa Democrats
“首次辩论之后有一个拜登参加竞选的非常现实的机会。正如昨晚辩论之前的焦点小组受访者那样，人们被敦促拜登参加竞选的令人动容的广告深深打动。看完广告后，有20人表示，广告让他们希望拜登参选，这仅仅是看了广告的结果。” —— 克里斯•考菲尼斯(Chris Kofinis)说，他的公司Park Street Strategies对爱荷华州的39名尚未做出选择的民主党人进行了焦点小组调查
“Cruel to say but true, Chafee’s ‘I’d just been appointed to my dad’s Senate seat, I was confused’ answer will join ranks of disastrous replies.” — James Fallows, The Atlantic
“这么说虽然残酷，但是真的，查菲的‘我刚刚被任命接替我爸爸的参议院席位，当时感到很困惑’的回答，将加入灾难性答案的行列。” —— 《大西洋月刊》詹姆斯·法洛斯(James Fallows)