WELLESLEY, Mass. — Hillary Clinton never named him, but she excoriated him.
马萨诸塞州韦尔斯利——希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)没有指名道姓，但她严厉谴责了他。
Speaking at the Wellesley College commencement on Friday, she alluded to Donald Trump, the man who defeated her for president, again and again. Clinton referred to an “assault on truth and reason,” lambasted Trump’s proposed budget, and drew parallels to Richard Nixon and his ultimate fate, resignation from office under a threat of impeachment.
在韦尔斯利学院(Wellesley College)周五举行的毕业典礼上，克林顿不止一次地间接提到唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)——那个击败她当上了总统的人。克林顿提到“对事实和理性的攻击”，狠批了特朗普的预算案，并拿理查德·尼克松(Daniel Nixon)及其最终的命运做类比，即在弹劾的威胁下辞职。
These days, she said, those in power are discarding reality in favor of inventing their own facts, which, she warned, could lead to the beginning of the end of a free society.
她说，这些日子，当权的人为编造自己的事实置现实于不顾，并警告，这可能会开启自由社会终结的开端。
“That is not hyperbole,” she said. “It is what authoritarian regimes throughout history have done” — attempting to control everything from budgets to thoughts.
“这并不夸张，”她说。“纵观历史，独裁政权都是这么做的” ——试图控制一切，不管是预算，还是人们的思想。”
The graduates at Wellesley, Clinton’s alma mater, cheered her thunderously and treated her like a returning hero, if not one who had conquered, at least one who in their eyes remained unbowed.
克林顿的母校韦尔斯利学院的毕业生像对待一个回归的英雄一般，为她发出雷鸣般的欢呼。在他们眼里，克林顿尽管没有取胜，至少也依然没有屈服。
But she was not finished laying out her critique of the current political culture.
但她没有就此结束对当前政治文化的批评。
“There is a full-fledged assault on truth and reason,” she declared. “People denying science, concocting elaborate hurtful conspiracy theories about child abuse rings operating out of pizza parlors, drumming up rampant fear about undocumented immigrants, Muslims, minorities, the poor, turning neighbor against neighbor and sowing division at a time when we desperately need unity.”
“出现了针对真实和理性的全面攻击，”她宣称。“人们否认科学，精心编造披萨店里存在虐待儿童团伙的有害阴谋论，煽动对无证件移民、穆斯林、少数族裔、穷人的普遍恐惧，让邻里对立，在我们迫切需要团结的时候制造分裂。”
Pausing, she added: “Some are even denying things we see with our own eyes, like the size of crowds.”
她停顿了一下，接着讲道：“有些人甚至否认我们亲眼看到的事实，比如人群的大小。
Pointing to the administration’s proposed budget, she called it “an attack of unimaginable cruelty on the most vulnerable among us.” She said it “grossly underfunds public education, mental health and even efforts to combat the opioid epidemic.”
她将矛头指向政府的预算案，称它“是对我们中最脆弱的人实施的残忍到无法想象的攻击”，说它“为公共教育、精神健康，乃至阿片类药物滥用提供的资金严重不足”。
If the particulars of her words seemed pointed, the core of her message to the graduates was broad: Get involved and persevere. Harness your anger, she advised them. Stand up for truth and reason — not just privately, but also in public. Even run for office, she said. It may not be for everyone, she conceded, “but it’s worth it.”
即便她言辞的细节指向十分明确，但她向毕业生们传达的信息的核心是广泛的：那就是参与和坚持。她建议他们控制自己的愤怒情绪。她表示，要为事实和理性挺身而出——不止在私人层面，也是在公共事务中——甚至鼓励他们竞选公职。它可能并不适合所有人，她坦诚道，“但这种努力是值得的。”
She also told them that it was fine to change their minds from time to time: “Take it from me — the former president of the Wellesley College Young Republicans.”
她还告诉他们，有时改变自己的想法是没有问题的：“相信我——一名前韦尔斯利学院青年共和党主席——的话。”
For Clinton, the stage was a familiar one. She began her political career here almost a half-century ago.
对克林顿而言，这是一个熟悉的舞台。在近半个世纪之前，她就是从这里开启了自己的政治生涯。
“I couldn’t think of any place I’d rather be this year than right here,” she began, opening her speech on a somewhat wistful note.
“今年，我想不到比这里更想来的地方，”她以一种略带思念的语调开始了自己的演讲。
“You may have heard that things didn’t exactly go the way I planned,” she said. “But you know what? I’m doing OK.”
“你们可能听说了事情的结果并非如我所愿，”她说。“但你们知道吗？我现在很好。”
It is hard to imagine a more fitting place than Wellesley for Clinton, 69, to reflect on her life’s trajectory. The college’s commencement has served as her platform twice before at major turning points in her life.
对于69岁的克林顿来说，很难想象还有什么地方比韦尔斯利学院更适合她反思自己的人生轨迹。这所大学的毕业典礼曾在她的人生两次发生重大的转折时，充当她发言的平台。
It was here in 1969 that a 21-year-old Hillary Rodham, the president of her class with a freshly minted degree in political science, was chosen by her classmates to be the first student to deliver a speech at commencement.
第一次是在1969年，21岁的希拉里·罗德姆(Hillary Rodham)刚刚拿到政治学学士学位，作为班长的她被同学们选中，成为在毕业典礼上发言的第一名学生。
And in 1992, during her husband’s first campaign for president — when she raised hackles for sounding more like a running mate with opinions and ambitions than an acquiescent wife — she spoke again at the Wellesley commencement.
1992年，在他丈夫第一次竞选总统期间，克林顿又一次在韦尔斯利学院毕业典礼上发表演讲。那段时间，她听起来更像一个有观点和野心的竞选搭档，而非一位顺从的妻子，因此激怒了一些人。
Before Clinton spoke on Friday, Tala Nashawati, this year’s student speaker, who is a daughter of Syrian immigrants, addressed the graduates. In homage to Clinton, she encouraged her classmates to “break every glass ceiling that still remains.”
周五，在克林顿发表演讲之前，今年的学生发言者、叙利亚移民的女儿塔拉·纳沙瓦提(Tala Nashawati)首先给毕业生们做了演讲。她向克林顿致敬，鼓励她的同学“打破依然存在的所有玻璃天花板”。