Andre Morales, a 36-year-old from Brooklyn, arrived before 3 a.m. Tuesday and planned to ask Hillary Rodham Clinton how it felt to work for President Obama after he had defeated her in the 2008 Democratic primary.
36岁的安德烈·莫拉莱斯(Andre Morales)来自布鲁克林。周二凌晨3点不到，他就到了，打算问问希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)，在2008年民主党党内初选中被奥巴马打败后在他手下工作的感觉如何。
Donna Gabriel, a 65-year-old retiree, said she wanted to be the first one in line on Monday afternoon. Jacquelyn Corsentino, 21, a college student, is writing her senior thesis on why Mrs. Clinton would make a good president. She took a train from New Jersey and, starting at 6 a.m., waited in line for more than five hours on an overcast morning outside the flagship Barnes & Noble in Union Square in Manhattan.
65岁的退休人员唐娜·加布里尔(Donna Gabriel)说，她本希望自己周一下午排在队伍的最前面。21岁的大学生杰奎琳·科尔森蒂诺(Jacquelyn Corsentino)正在写毕业论文，主题是克林顿为什么会成为一位好总统。她乘火车从新泽西赶来，从早上6点开始就在曼哈顿联合广场的巴诺书店(Barnes & Noble)旗舰店外排队等候。在这个阴沉的早上，她等了五个多小时。
Finally, after a carefully scripted rollout that included high-profile television interviews and planned leaks to the news media, Mrs. Clinton arrived just after 11 a.m. for her first book signing on a nationwide tour to promote her new memoir, “Hard Choices.” Wearing a hot-pink blazer and a splashy silver necklace, she waved and thanked the crowd of more than 1,000 people, many of whom had slept outside the store. They bought their $35 hardcover copies in advance at 30 percent off and snaked through the ropes set up on the fourth floor of the bookstore.
发布过程经过了精心策划，其中包括高调的电视访问，以及有计划地向新闻媒体提前透露部分内容。上午11点刚过，克林顿终于抵达现场，进行首场签名活动。为了推销自己的新回忆录《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)，她准备在全国范围内巡回签售。身穿艳粉色上衣、戴着一款闪闪发亮的银色项链的她向人群挥手致意，表示感谢。现场有1000多人，其中不少前一晚就睡在书店外。他们提前以7折价购买了这本定价35美元的精装书，沿着书店四楼拉起的绳子蜿蜒前行。
Mrs. Clinton told ABC News on Monday that she would not decide whether to run in the 2016 presidential race before the end of the year. But her book signing brought with it the trappings and logistics of a campaign event.
克林顿周一告诉ABC新闻频道(ABC News)，在今年年底之前，她不会决定是否参加2016年的总统竞选。但她的签名售书活动却带有竞选活动的标志和安排。
Now comes scrutiny as Mrs. Clinton’s rivals pore over her interviews to promote the book this week, analyzing sales data and crowd size as a proxy for a potential presidential campaign. (Simon & Schuster, the publisher of the memoir, said its initial printing of one million copies sold out last month after a book excerpt was published in Vogue.)
当克林顿的对手密切关注她本周为推广新书而接受的采访，把销售数据和人群规模当做潜在的总统竞选活动的象征进行分析时，外界的审视也将随之而来。（这部回忆录的出版商西蒙与舒斯特[Simon & Schuster]称，该书的节选被《Vogue》刊登后，首次印刷的100万本已于上月预先售罄。）
At the Manhattan event, hundreds of journalists, cameramen and photographers, speaking several languages, had waited outside since 7 a.m. for dozens of Secret Service agents to examine their gear. Cameramen set up on a riser complained that photographers were blocking their shots, and print reporters typed up every detail, including attendees shushing one another as Mrs. Clinton made her way to the front of the room.
在这场曼哈顿的活动上，从上午7点开始，说着好几门语言的数百名记者、电视摄像师和图片摄影师便在外面等着几十名特勤局(Secret Service)的特工检查他们的设备。电视摄像师在活动平台上放好了设备，抱怨图片摄影师挡住了他们的镜头，文字记者则记下了每一个细节，包括当克林顿往房间前面走时，在场的人相互用嘘声示意安静。
Reporters were allowed to remain in the room for 20 minutes of the two-hour book signing and were not allowed to ask Mrs. Clinton questions. A five-person assembly line of young aides handed Mrs. Clinton books to sign and guided customers onto the stage, where she sat at a wooden desk joined by Secret Service agents.
在长达两个小时的签名活动中，记者被允许在屋里待20分钟，但不能向克林顿提问。一条由年轻助手组成的五人流水线将要签名的书递给克林顿，并引导读者走上台。克林顿坐在台上的一张木书桌后面，身边是特勤局的几名特工。
It came as little surprise that Mrs. Clinton, a former senator from New York, chose this bookstore as her first stop on a publicity blitz, as it represents a bit of a home-court advantage. As of Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton’s book tour did not include stops in the crucial election battleground states of Iowa, New Hampshire and Ohio.
作为纽约州的前联邦参议员，克林顿选择这家书店作为其造势活动的首站不足为奇，因为它多少带有一些主场优势。截至周二，克林顿的新书巡回签售活动尚未安排在艾奥瓦、新罕布什尔和俄亥俄等关键的选举摇摆州进行。
The crowd on Tuesday included the young (Katrina Yoder pulled her 16-year-old daughter out of school to meet Mrs. Clinton; “I’m not going to remember the last Tuesday toward the end of my school year, but I’ll remember this,” her daughter, Noa, said) and the older (Mary Jo Pane, a 61-year-old jewelry designer, said she supported Mrs. Clinton for president in 2008 and supports her “20 times that now”). Many in line said they considered the packed signing as a preamble to a 2016 campaign.
周二的人群中有老有少（61岁的珠宝设计师玛丽·乔·帕内尔[Mary Jo Pane]说，2008年时她支持克林顿竞选总统，现在对她的支持“是那时的20倍”。为了见克林顿，卡特里娜·约德[Katrina Yoder]让16岁的女儿缺课；“我将来不会记起学年末的最后一个周二，但我会记得这个，”她的女儿诺亚[Noa]说）。队伍中的许多人表示，他们认为这场挤得水泄不通的签售活动是2016年竞选的前奏。
John Fashtak, a 64-year-old retiree from New Jersey, planned to ask Mrs. Clinton to sign his copy of “Hard Choices” simply as “Pres.”
64岁的退休人员约翰·法什塔克(John Fashtak)来自新泽西州。他打算让克林顿直接在他那本《艰难抉择》上签上“总统”二字。
(Guidelines handed out to attendees along with fluorescent wristbands prohibited Mrs. Clinton from personalizing books or signing memorabilia.)
（和荧光腕带一起分发给排队者的指南上写着，不允许要求克林顿在书上留下比较私人化的内容，或是给纪念品签名。）
“I don’t want her to shatter the glass ceiling this time. I want her to kick down the door,” said Mr. Fashtak’s wife, Diane, 71.
“我希望，她这次不是突破玻璃天花板，而是破门而入，”法什塔克的妻子、71岁的黛安(Diane)说。
Not everyone is enthusiastic about Mrs. Clinton’s book tour. Republicans have seized on her comments to ABC News about the attack on an American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, that left four Americans dead in 2012. Mrs. Clinton said she had given“very direct instructions” to security experts and had been correct to defer to their judgment.
并非所有人都对克林顿的新书巡回推介活动充满热情。共和党人对她向ABC新闻频道所作的评论抓住不放，其中谈到的是利比亚班加西的美国外交使团驻地遭受袭击一事。发生在2012年的那场袭击导致四名美国人死亡。克林顿说，她向安全专家下达了“非常直接的指示”，而自己听从他们的判断是正确的作法。
When the interviewer, Diane Sawyer, repeatedly asked Mrs. Clinton whether she should have done anything differently, she replied, “I certainly would give anything on earth if this had not happened.”
当主持人黛安·索耶(Diane Sawyer)反复追问克林顿是否本该采取不同的方式做点什么时，她回答，“如果能换取不发生这件事，我肯定什么都会做。”
Mrs. Clinton also faced criticism for saying that she and former President Bill Clinton “struggled to piece together the resources for mortgages for houses” after leaving the White House.
克林顿还因为说自己和前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在离开白宫后“艰难地为房贷拼凑资源”而遭致批评。
Republicans said the comment was evidence that Mrs. Clinton was out of touch with struggling Americans. The hashtag #HillaryIsSoPoor was trending on Twitter on Monday night.
共和党人称，此番评论证明克林顿脱离了正在苦苦挣扎的美国民众。周一晚间，主题标签#HillaryIsSoPoor（意为：希拉里这么穷）在Twitter上热传。
A Barnes & Noble spokeswoman said the crowd’s size was not particularly unusual. Mr. Clinton, the actor James Franco and Suzanne Collins, the author of “The Hunger Games” trilogy, received similar welcomes. The Jonas Brothers and Justin Bieber got bigger crowds.
巴诺书店的女发言人表示，此次活动的参与人数并不是特别突出。比尔·克林顿、演员詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)和《饥饿游戏》 (The Hunger Games)三部曲的作者苏珊·科林斯(Suzanne Collins)都受到了类似的欢迎。因乔纳斯兄弟(Jonas Brothers)和贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)而聚集起的人群规模则要更大。