UNITED NATIONS — Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday defended her exclusive use of a private email address during her time as secretary of state as a matter of “convenience,” saying that about 30,000 of her work-related emails would be made public, but that thousands more that she deemed personal had been deleted.
联合国——周二，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)为自己在担任国务卿期间只使用私人电子邮箱的做法进行了辩护，称这么做是为了“方便”。她说，大约3万封工作邮件将被公开，但还有更多她认为属于私人的邮件已经被删除。
“I thought using one device would be simpler; obviously, it hasn’t worked out that way,” she said in her first public comments since the issue emerged last week.
“我本以为使用一台设备会简单一些，显然并非如此，”她说。这是上周这一问题浮出水面以来，克林顿的首次公开表态。
She said that most of her emails were work-related, went to government employees and were captured on government servers. Mrs. Clinton said that the State Department would make public all of her work-related emails, but that her personal messages — about issues such as her daughter’s wedding and the death of her mother — would remain private.
她说，自己的多数邮件是与工作相关的，发送对象是政府的工作人员，而且已经被政府的服务器储存。克林顿说，国务院将公开她的所有工作邮件，但她的个人邮件——如关于女儿婚礼和母亲去世的邮件——不会被公开。
“I feel that I have taken unprecedented steps to provide these public emails; they will be in the public domain,” she said.
“我觉得，为了提供这些工作邮件，我已经采取了前所未有的行动，它们将成为公开信息，”她说。
Mrs. Clinton spoke for about 20 minutes during a news conference, delivering a statement on women’s issues and denouncing moves by Republican lawmakers to undermine efforts for a nuclear agreement with Iran, before turning to the controversy over her emails.
克林顿在新闻发布会上的发言持续了20分钟左右。她先是发表了一份关于女性议题的声明，接着谴责了共和党议员阻挠与伊朗达成核协议的做法，之后开始谈论自己的电子邮箱引发的争议。
Expressing a mix of regret and defensiveness over the matter, Mrs. Clinton emphasized that she broke no laws. “I fully complied with every rule,” she said, adding that no classified material had been sent on her email.
克林顿对于该问题同时表达了遗憾和辩解，她强调说，自己没有违反任何法律。她说，“我完全遵守了每一项规定。”她还表示，她的电子邮箱从没有发出过机密文件。
However, she remained steadfast that she would not turn over personal emails and said that those messages in fact had been deleted.
然而，她仍然坚定地表示，不会公布私人邮件内容，并表示这些邮件实际上已经删除。
“They were about personal and private matters that I believed were in the scope of my personal privacy and particularly that of other people,” she said. “They had nothing to do with work. I didn’t see a need to keep them.”
“这些邮件有关个人和私人的事务，我认为属于个人隐私范畴，特别是他人的个人隐私，”她说。“它们不涉及工作。我不认为有必要保留。”
The State Department said on Tuesday that it would publish online the full set of emails provided by Mrs. Clinton from her time as secretary of state.
国务院周二表示，将在网上公布克林顿提供的担任国务卿期间的全部电子邮件。
“We will review the entire 55,000-page set and release in one batch at the end of that review to ensure that standards are consistently applied throughout the entire 55,000 pages,” said Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman. “We said we expect the review to take several months; obviously that hasn’t changed.”
“我们将审阅全部的5.5万页内容，在审阅结束后一次性公布，确保5.5万页的内容都符合规定，”国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)说。“我们说过，预计审阅过程将需要几个月的时间，这一点显然没有变。”
A smaller set, about 300 emails that had been provided to the select House committee on Benghazi, will be released earlier to the public.
已经提供给众议院班加西事件委员会的约300封邮件，将率先向公众披露。
The State Department also said it would give any reasons for redactions, in accordance with Freedom of Information Act guidelines.
国务院还表示，根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)的指导方针，国务院有权对公开的邮件内容进行删节。
Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, the chairman of the Benghazi panel, said he was unsatisfied by Mrs. Clinton’s explanation, raising questions about the security of her private account and calling for access to her server.
南卡罗来纳州众议员、班加西事件委员会主席特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)表示，自己对克林顿的解释不满意，质疑其私人账户的安全，并要求访问她的服务器。
“Without access to Secretary Clinton’s personal server, there is no way for the State Department to know it has acquired all documents that should be made public,” he said. “Given State’s delay in disclosing the fact Secretary Clinton exclusively used personal email to conduct State business, there is no way to accept State’s or Secretary Clinton’s certification she has turned over all documents that rightfully belong to the American people.”
“不访问克林顿国务卿的私人服务器，国务院就没法知道自己是否获得了所有应被公开的文件，”他说。“考虑到国务院延迟公布克林顿国务卿只使用个人邮箱来处理政府事务这一事实，我们没有办法接受国务院或克林顿国务卿的保证，说她已经移交了所有理应属于美国人民的文件。”
After a week of criticism and questions about the email account, Mrs. Clinton fielded political questions from reporters, something she had not done since her 2008 presidential campaign.
在因私人电邮账户而受到一周的指责和质疑后，克林顿回答了记者的政治问题。自从2008年的大选后，她从未这么做过。
Mrs. Clinton’s time as secretary of state provided her a respite from the campaign press corps, which she felt had turned on her during the 2008 Democratic presidential primary.
在担任国务卿的那段时间，克林顿得以远离报道竞选的记者团。她觉得，在2008年的民主党初选期间，竞选记者团让她很恼火。
But as she shapes her 2016 campaign, Mrs. Clinton must wade back into politics, prompted not by her own careful timing but forced by a controversy over whether she intentionally used a private email account to skirt federal records requests for State Department correspondence.
但随着2016年竞选工作的推进，克林顿必须重回政治纷争当中，这么做不是出于她自己慎重的时机选择，而是为争议所迫。这场争议的核心是，她是不是有意使用私人电邮账户，用以规避将国务院通信留作联邦记录的要求。
In a Twitter message last week, Mrs. Clinton said she wanted the State Department to release about 50,000 pages of emails. “I want the public to see my email,” she wrote. “I asked State to release them. They said they will review them for release as soon as possible.”
上周，克林顿在Twitter上发帖称，她愿意让国务院公开大约5万页的电子邮件。“我愿意让公众看我的电子邮件，”她写道。“我要求国务院公开它们。他们说会尽快对其进行审阅，以便公开。”
But the brief response was not enough to squelch lingering questions about whether her lack of an official email address was intended to shield her correspondence from federal records requests by political opponents, journalists and academics.
但这一简短的回应，并不足以压制那些挥之不去的疑问：她没有政府电邮账户，是不是为了让她的通信避开政敌、记者和学者查看联邦记录的要求。
The news conference, which took place after she delivered a keynote address on women’s issues at the United Nations, comes during a busy week for Mrs. Clinton. She is participating in back-to-back events in New York that are intended to focus on her activism on women’s issues, which is expected to be a central theme of her 2016 campaign.
新闻发布会是她在联合国就女性事务发表了主旨演讲后举行的。对克林顿来说，这是忙碌的一周。她正在纽约参加一场接一场的活动，旨在关注她在女性事务上的行动主义，这预计是她2016年竞选的核心主题。