On Super Tuesday of the bitter 2008 Democratic primary campaign, a group of Barack Obama supporters riding the New York City subway noticed Audrey Gelman wearing a Hillary Rodham Clinton campaign button on her jacket.
2008年激烈的民主党总统竞选初选日，一群贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的支持者搭乘纽约市地铁时，发现奥德丽·格尔曼(Audrey Gelman)的外衣上佩戴着希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的竞选徽章。
They berated Ms. Gelman, then a junior staff worker on the Clinton campaign, for backing a candidate standing in the way of the first black president. At another point, the button invited mocking inquiries at a Lower East Side cafe as to whether Ms. Gelman was a Republican.
当时格尔曼是克林顿夫人竞选团队的初级职员。他们指责说，她支持希拉里就等于阻碍美国出现第一位黑人总统。还有一次，在下东区的一个咖啡馆，她佩戴的徽章引来嘲讽，有人质疑她是不是共和党人。
Now a 27-year-old public relations consultant with one foot in Democratic politics and the other in New York’s hipper-than-thou fashion, arts and music scene, Ms. Gelman is feeling more confident in her Clinton accessories this time around. “If you go to a party in Williamsburg or Bushwick now and wear a Hillary pin,” she said, “people are going to be like, ‘Right on.’ ”
如今，27岁的格尔曼是一名公关顾问，同时涉足民主党的政治活动以及纽约的时尚、艺术和音乐场合。这一次，她佩戴克林顿徽章四处走动时感觉更有信心。她说，“如今，你佩戴克林顿徽章去威廉斯堡或布什威克参加派对时，人们的反应是，‘好极了’。” 
“Cool Kids for Hillary.” You may be able to imagine it on a campaign button, but would any of them wear one? Whereas Mr. Obama’s 2008 candidacy organically prompted excitement on college campuses, the country’s skinny-jean citadels and celebrity hangouts, the candidate Clinton seems to be trying awfully hard to be down with the in crowd.
“支持希拉里的酷小孩。”你也许能够想象竞选徽章上出现这样的标语，但是酷小孩会佩戴这样的徽章吗？2008年奥巴马获得候选资格后，很自然地在大学校园里、修身牛仔裤盛行之地以及名人逗留之处掀起兴奋之情。而克林顿夫人似乎还在十分努力地接触普通百姓。
“Say you’ll Bey on Team #Hillary2016, too” read a May 15 tweet on Mrs. Clinton’s official account above an article in Marie Claire (where Ms. Gelman is a contributing editor) that was headlined “Beyoncé just publicly showed her support for Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.”
《Marie Claire》（格尔曼是该杂志的特约编辑）发表了一篇文章，标题是“碧昂斯公开表示支持希拉里·克林顿竞选总统”。5月15日，克林顿夫人的Twitter官方账户就这篇文章发帖说：“像碧昂斯一样，说出你也是#Hillary2016阵营的一员。”
Then there’s the Brooklyn Heights campaign headquarters. “Brooklyn U.S.A. How can you beat that?” Mrs. Clinton asks in a meet-the-neighbors web video — complete with a precious faux-handwriting font — that captures her greeting adoring Brooklynites. (Never mind that this is one of the borough’s more-staid neighborhoods.)
还有，克林顿夫人选择布鲁克林高地作为竞选总部。在与该地居民会面的网络视频中，克林顿夫人问道：“美国布鲁克林。谁与争锋？（这句话配以可爱的仿手写字幕）”这番话赢得了布鲁克林人对她的欢迎和崇敬（尽管布鲁克林高地是该地区最保守的社区之一）。
Ms. Gelman, who called the former secretary of state “a feminist icon and a cultural icon,” has sought to lift Mrs. Clinton’s cultural cred. On the day Mrs. Clinton announced her candidacy, Ms. Gelman said that approving Instagram messages poured in from the singer Ciara, the stars of the raunchy millennial comedy “Broad City” and her best friend and “Girls” creator Lena Dunham. (“My new tramp stamp,” Ms. Dunham wrote under the campaign logo.)
格尔曼努力提升克林顿夫人的文化地位，称这位前国务卿是“女权主义的象征，是文化偶像”。她说，克林顿夫人宣布参加竞选当天，Instagram上对她表示支持的消息大量涌现，支持者包括歌手席亚拉(Ciara)、喧闹的千禧一代喜剧《大城小妞》(Broad City)中的演员们，以及格尔曼的好友，《都市女孩》(Girls)的主创莉娜·杜汉姆（Lena Dunham，杜汉姆在克林顿夫人的竞选标志下写道，“我的后腰纹身新图案就是它”）。
There have also been endorsements from Katy Perry, 50 Cent and America Ferrera, the star of TV’s “Ugly Betty.” On Thursday evening, Mrs. Clinton replied “Back at you” to the singer Kelly Clarkson, who called herself a “fan of Hillary.”
支持克林顿夫人的名人还有凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)、50 Cent，以及电视剧《丑女贝蒂》(Ugly Betty)的主演亚美莉卡·费雷拉(America Ferrera)。歌手凯莉·克拉克森(Kelly Clarkson)称自己是“希拉里的粉丝”。周四晚上，克林顿夫人回复说：“我也是你的粉丝。”
But in campaign appearances, Mrs. Clinton has targeted voters on the opposite side of the cool-kid spectrum. On Monday, she stood before leatherbound classics and a ceramic life-size dog in the Mason City, Iowa, living room of Dean Genth and his husband, Gary Swenson.
但是在竞选活动中，克林顿夫人把目标锁定在跟酷小孩相对的投票人身上。周一，她站在艾奥瓦州梅森城的男同性恋爱侣迪恩·根特(Dean Genth)和加里·斯温森(Gary Swenson)的客厅里，身后是皮面装帧的经典书籍和实物大小的陶瓷狗。
“People really got to see a personable, down-to-earth, approachable Hillary Clinton that I think a lot of people don’t realize exists,” Mr. Swenson said after the event, adding that she was “really interested in what the heartland of America and what America in general is interested in.”
在与克林顿夫人会面后，斯温森说，“人们真得看看风度翩翩、脚踏实地、和蔼可亲的希拉里·克林顿，我觉得很多人不知道她实际是这样的。”他补充说，她“真的关心美国中部地区以及普通美国人关心的东西”。
The next day, Mrs. Clinton sat for a round-table discussion about small businesses inside a Cedar Falls, Iowa, bicycle shop. With the clean-cut owner of Goldie’s Ice Cream Shoppe on her right, Mrs. Clinton put on her super-folksy accent and stated, again, “I’m running for president because everyday Americans and their families need a champion.”
第二天，克林顿夫人在艾奥瓦州锡达福尔斯市的一个自行车店参加一个关于小企业的圆桌会谈。戈尔迪冰激凌店的漂亮老板坐在她的右侧。克林顿夫人用非常亲切的语调再次声明：“我竞选总统，是因为每一天，美国人和美国家庭都需要一个捍卫者。”
And yet, Mrs. Clinton would love for young trendsetters to champion her cause and to replicate Mr. Obama’s success at converting his cultural currency among young voters into hard votes.
不过，克林顿夫人会很希望年轻潮人支持她的事业，复制奥巴马的成功，把他在年轻投票者中的文化价值转化成实实在在的选票。
The campaign argues that she enjoys their widespread support, though Democratic Party operatives say that has more to do with the increasingly liberal positions she has taken than any excitement about her per se.
克林顿的竞选团队称，她很喜欢来自年轻人的广泛支持，不过，民主党工作人员称，这更多的是因为她越来越多地采取自由主义立场，与民众对她本人的兴奋无关。
“Obama was new,” the actor Steve Buscemi said on a recent afternoon as he took a break from filming a scene for a television show on Mott Street. He called Mrs. Clinton “formidable” and “amazing” but added, “She’s been around a long time, so we can’t expect her to have the same thing.”
前不久的一个下午，演员史蒂夫·布谢米(Steve Buscemi)在莫特街为一部电视剧拍摄一个场景。在休息间歇，他说，“当年的奥巴马很新鲜。”他说，克林顿夫人“令人敬畏”、“令人惊叹”，但他补充说，“她已经出现在公众面前多年，所以我们不能期望她拥有同样的新鲜感”。
Mrs. Clinton has made efforts to maintain contact with cultural signposts. In 2012, she posed with the singer Lia Ices at Roberta’s, the Bushwick pizzeria housed in a former garage that was all the rage. That same year, she tasted viral Internet fame and liked it.
克林顿夫人努力与文化标志人物保持联系。2012年，她和歌手利娅·艾斯(Lia Ices)在布什威克的披萨店罗伯塔(Roberta’s)合影。这家披萨店位于一个修车厂旧址，曾经风靡一时。同年，她尝到了互联网名声病毒式蔓延的滋味，很是喜欢。
Stacy Lambe and a friend were at Nellie’s Sports Bar, a popular Washington gay hangout, when they got the idea of writing humorous texts under a photograph of Mrs. Clinton wearing oversize sunglasses and reading her BlackBerry. The resulting Tumblr account, “Texts From Hillary,” turned into an Internet meme of a woman so ice-cold as to be cool. Mrs. Clinton embraced the image, making it her Twitter avatar.
斯塔西·兰姆(Stacy Lambe)和一个朋友在华盛顿著名的同性恋酒吧内莉体育酒吧(Nellie’s Sports Bar)产生了一个想法——在克林顿夫人戴着超大墨镜看黑莓手机短信的照片下面配上幽默的文字。由此产生了Tumblr账户“来自希拉里的短信”(Texts From Hillary)，它变成了一个冰冷时髦的女人的互联网米姆。克林顿夫人欣然接受这样的形象，把它用作自己的Twitter头像。
But Mr. Lambe, who now works at “Entertainment Tonight,” said the meme’s momentum and excitement over Mrs. Clinton has abated somewhat since the controversy over her personal email accounts.
如今，兰姆在《今晚娱乐》(Entertainment Tonight)工作。他说，自从希拉里使用私人邮箱发送工作邮件引发争议之后，这个米姆的势头和兴奋度有点减弱了。
Moreover, “there was this cool-kids factor with Obama,” he said, “and I definitely think Hillary didn’t have that.”
另外，他说，“奥巴马有那种酷孩子的感觉，希拉里显然没有那种感觉。”
There is little doubt that young voters, who are traditionally Democrats, will prefer Mrs. Clinton over the Republican nominee. And one of the most accomplished women in American political history certainly does not care much about the opinions of people whose defining characteristics are the style of their Warby Parker glasses or the origins of their pour-over coffee. But she does care a lot about becoming president.
年轻投票者一般都支持民主党。几乎可以肯定的是，他们对克林顿夫人的喜欢多于对共和党候选人。作为美国政治史上最有成就的女人之一，克林顿夫人当然不是很在乎那些以沃比·帕克(Warby Parker)墨镜款式或滴滤式咖啡原产地为个性的人的观点。但她的确很在乎当总统。
The question is then whether she can get young people excited about her candidacy. A temperature-taking in Washington Square Park was not promising.
那么接下来的问题是，她能否让年轻人为她竞选总统而感到兴奋。在华盛顿广场公园(Washington Square Park)进行的随机民意调查显示，她在这方面胜算不大。
“Honestly, I really haven’t seen anything,” said Mckennah Spagnola, 19, a New York University student studying psychology, when asked about her peer group’s response to Mrs. Clinton.
当被问及她的同龄人对克林顿夫人参选的反应时，19岁的纽约大学心理学专业学生麦肯娜·斯帕诺拉(Mckennah Spagnola)说，“坦白地说，我真没见到同学们有什么反应。”
A few feet away, the actress Anne Hathaway and her husband smiled as they watched toddlers interacting with dogs. She politely declined to comment (a former boyfriend of hers who once pledged $50 million to the Clinton Global Initiative pleaded guilty to fraud in 2008) and instead admired a circle of aspiring Broadway stars shouting voice exercises.
几英尺之外，女演员安妮·海瑟薇(Anne Hathaway)和丈夫微笑地观看蹒跚学步的婴儿和狗狗们嬉戏。她礼貌地拒绝评论，转过身去钦佩地观看一群满怀抱负的百老汇明星围成一圈练声（她的一位前男友曾给克林顿全球倡议组织[Clinton Global Initiative]捐赠了5000万美元，2008年承认犯诈骗罪）。
While the musical theater set had approving things to say about Mrs. Clinton, Mariah Ramirez, 18, who was in sixth grade in the months before the 2008 presidential election, said, “It’s not cool to support Hillary.” Ms. Ramirez said that while the prospect of a female president was exciting, she supports Senator Bernie Sanders because he has said he would not accept super PAC money.
虽然音乐界对克林顿夫人有些赞美之词，但是18岁的玛丽亚·拉米雷斯(Mariah Ramirez)说，“支持希拉里显得不够酷。”2008年总统大选前的几个月，她上六年级。拉米雷斯说，虽然美国可能会出现一位女总统这一点令人兴奋，但是她支持参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，因为他说自己不会接受超级政治行动委员会（简称“超级PAC”）的资助。
Apathy may be preferable to some of the ambiguous messages Mrs. Clinton has triggered on the streets around her Brooklyn headquarters, where black-and-white posters popped up in April depicting the former first lady over the words “Secretive” or “Ambitious.”
4月份，克林顿夫人布鲁克林竞选总部附近的街上冒出了一些黑白海报，那些海报用Secretive（高深莫测或鬼鬼祟祟）或Ambitious（雄心勃勃或野心勃勃）这样的词描绘这位前第一夫人。与这些模棱两可的评价相比，漠不关心似乎还好一些。
That’s a far cry from the Hope posters (and subsequent ubiquitous T-shirts) made by the graffiti artist Shepard Fairey, who said he is not going to be making another one for Mrs. Clinton.
这与涂鸦艺术家谢泼德·费尔雷(Shepard Fairey)制作的“希望”(Hope)海报（以及它衍生出的随处可见的T恤）大相径庭。费尔雷说他没打算为克林顿夫人也制作一份海报。
“I was interested in Obama in 2008 because his stated positions at the time made him seem like a subversive delivery vehicle for progressive principles I believe in,” Mr. Fairey wrote in an email. “Since then, I’ve realized that the corrupt nature of the system itself, with current campaign finance structure and the stranglehold corporations have on government, limits the kind of candidates that will make it into the system and narrows the spectrum of what’s available in our near non-Democracy.”
“2008年我对奥巴马感兴趣，是因为他的立场让我觉得他颠覆性地传达了进步原则，而这正是我相信的，”费尔雷在电子邮件中写道，“自那以后，我意识到，政治体系的腐败本质、当前的竞选资金结构以及公司对政府的钳制限制了会把进步原则带入政治体系的候选人，缩小了我们几乎毫不民主的政治体系所能推出的候选人的范围。”
Try putting that on a T-shirt.
试着把这些想法写到T恤上。
On a recent afternoon, in front of St. Ann’s, a private school across the street from the Clinton headquarters, Adrian Briscoe, 42, paused from chatting with the actress and Brooklyn Heights native Jennifer Connelly to discuss Mrs. Clinton’s decision to base her campaign nearby.
前不久的一个下午，在克林顿竞选总部对面的圣安妮私立学校(St. Ann’s)前，42岁的阿德里安·布里斯科(Adrian Briscoe)暂停与女演员詹妮弗·康奈利（Jennifer Connelly，她是布鲁克林高地本地人）交谈，谈起了克林顿夫人把竞选总部设立在这附近的决定。
“Do I seem excited?” he asked. He did not.
“我看起来兴奋吗？”他问道。他不兴奋。
Neither did Stewart Gerard and Jessica Mazza, who walked out of Glasserie, a trendy restaurant in Greenpoint that evening, to smoke a cigarette in front of a red retro pickup truck. Ms. Mazza, 25, an aspiring filmmaker and artist, said she wished Elizabeth Warren would get in the race.
斯图尔特·杰勒德(Stewart Gerard)和杰西卡·马扎(Jessica Mazza)也不兴奋。那天晚上，他们从绿点的时髦餐厅Glasserie出来，在一辆红色复古敞篷载货卡车前抽烟。25岁的马扎是一位有抱负的电影制作人兼艺术家。她说，她希望伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)参加竞选。
Mr. Gerard, 32, a production designer, insisted that while he was “down with Hillary,” he worried that young people wouldn’t come out to vote for her, as he had seen none of the enthusiasm Mr. Obama had generated in 2008. He added with a touch of nostalgia, “I wish I could vote for Obama for a third term.”
32岁的杰勒德是一位制片设计师。他坚称自己“支持希拉里”，但是他担心年轻人不会选她，因为他完全没有看到奥巴马2008年激发的那种热情。他有点怀旧地补充说，“我真希望能再次投票支持奥巴马连任。”