In the modern era, every major-party nominee who was not a sitting president has faced a primary fight. All except Al Gore, a sitting vice president, lost at least one state — and Mr. Gore came within four percentage points of losing the crucial early state of New Hampshire.
在现代美国，除非是在任总统，任何主要政党的提名人都需要经历一场党内初选战。除了阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)之外，每个提名人都至少在一个州上失利——戈尔那时是在任副总统，他以4个百分点的优势在重要的新罕布什尔州险胜过关。
Hillary Clinton, whose widely expected presidential bid was announced on Sunday, enters the fray with a better chance to win without a serious contest than any of her predecessors. Her strength heading into the primary has little precedent; if a primary candidate ever deserved the distinction of “inevitable,” it is Mrs. Clinton today. Yet nothing would be inevitable about her chances in the general election.
此前普遍预计会参选的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)周日宣布参加总统候选人提名角逐。也许与以前的任何角逐者相比，她面临重大竞争的可能性都更小一些。克林顿在初选中占据的优势地位几乎前所未有；如果有哪个初选角逐者可以称得上是“必然”会胜出，那就非如今的克林顿莫属。不过她在总统大选中的胜算并没有什么必然可言。
Mrs. Clinton starts in a far better position than she did eight years ago, when she was often described as the “inevitable” Democratic nominee but had clear weaknesses and lost to Senator Barack Obama. She holds approximately 60 percent support among Democratic voters in primary polls, dwarfing the 40 percent she held at this time in the last Democratic cycle. She appears just as strong in the early states, including Iowa, where she already trailed by this point eight years ago.
与八年前相比，克林顿这次的起局形势更好一些；当时她经常被称为“必然”的民主党提名人，但却存在明显的弱点，输给了奥巴马。在民主党选民中，她目前获得了大约60%的支持，上次在这个阶段，她的支持率只有40%。在最早进行初选的一些州，她也显得势头强劲，包括爱荷华州，八年前的这个时候，她在该州的支持率已然落后。
She has conclusively won the so-called invisible primary — the behind-the-scenes competition for elite support that often decides the nomination. Many of Mr. Obama’s earliest supporters from 2008, like Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri, have already endorsed her candidacy. Whatever reservations endure among Democratic elites do not appear to be broad or deep enough to create space for a viable challenger.
她已经在所谓的“隐形初选”中获得了决定性的胜利，也就是争取精英层支持的幕后竞争，这往往会决定提名的结果。2008年时奥巴马最早获得的很多支持者，比如密苏里州民主党参议员克莱尔·麦卡斯基尔(Claire McCaskill)，已经认可了克林顿的候选资格。民主党的精英层无论持有怎样的保留意见，在广度或深层上都不足以给一个有力的挑战者留出空间。
In part as a result, many of her strongest potential rivals — like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and the former Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick — have forsworn presidential bids. In 2008, Mrs. Clinton faced two top-tier challenges: John Edwards, the former Democratic vice-presidential nominee, and Mr. Obama, who was encouraged to run by much of the Democratic congressional leadership and matched Mrs. Clinton in fund-raising from the start.
克林顿很多强大的潜在对手——比如马萨诸塞州参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)和前马萨诸塞州州长德瓦尔·派崔克(Deval Patrick)——一定程度上就是因此放弃参加初选的。2008年时，克林顿要面对两个重磅挑战者：前民主党副总统候选人约翰·爱德华兹(John Edwards)和奥巴马。后者获得了国会很多民主党领导人的大力支持，在资金募集上从一开始就不输于克林顿。
Joe Biden, the vice president, has not ruled out a challenge to Mrs. Clinton. But despite the stature of the vice presidency, he holds a mere 12 percent of the vote in an average of recent primary polls — less than half of the 25 percent that Mr. Obama attracted in April 2007. His weakness is a telling indication of Mrs. Clinton’s strength, as well as his own limitations as a candidate. He failed to win more than 1 percent of the vote in two presidential bids.
副总统乔·拜登(Joe Biden)尚有可能挑战克林顿。但是，尽管他是副总统，但在最近主要民调中，他的平均支持率只有12%——这还不到2007年4月时奥巴马的25%的一半。他这种偏弱的势头，有力地展现了克林顿的优势，以及他自身作为候选人的局限性。在两度角逐总统候选人提名时，他获得的票数都没有超过1%。
Her likeliest opponents — like the former Maryland governor Martin O’Malley; the former Virginia senator Jim Webb; the Vermont senator Bernie Sanders; and the former Rhode Island governor Lincoln Chafee, a former Republican — lack the resources or stature necessary to contend for the nomination. None have made a dent in the polls.
最有可能与她竞争的人——比如前马里兰州州长马丁·奥马利(Martin O'Malley)；前弗吉尼亚州的吉姆·韦布(Jim Webb)；佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)；和前共和党人、前罗德岛州长林肯·查菲(Lincoln Chafee)——都缺乏必要的资源和地位来争夺提名。而他们在民调中的表现都欠佳。
Mrs. Clinton is not without vulnerabilities. She is not a natural politician in connecting with voters on the campaign trail, and some have grown tired of the Clintons and their controversies. Those concerns were exacerbated with the news that she used a personal email account and server while secretary of state, and one cannot rule out the possibility that this issue or others will ultimately represent a threat to her candidacy. Nonetheless, the uniform Democratic defense of Mrs. Clinton, including from her most eager opposition, as well as her resilient poll numbers suggest that the email affair does not yet pose a challenge to her primary campaign.
克林顿也不是没有弱点。她不是那种天生能在竞选过程中打动选民人心的政治家，有的人已经厌倦了克林顿夫妇和关于他们的争议。她使用个人而非国务卿电子邮件帐户和服务器的消息传出后，这种担忧进一步加剧。你不能排除这样的可能性：这个问题，或其他问题，最终将对她的候选资格构成威胁。不过，民主党上下一致力挺克林顿，就连最热衷于反对她的人也是如此，而且她的民调表现也仍然强劲，从这些方面来看，电子邮件事件对她的初选尚未构成威胁。
Some liberals also believe that Mrs. Clinton has too many ties to Wall Street, a potent charge at a time when Democrats are concerned by growing income inequality. But her weakness on income inequality is far less acute than her weakness on Iraq was in 2008, when the Democratic base was energized in opposition to a war that, as a senator, she voted to authorize. Even then, she earned 48 percent of pledged delegates against a candidate who was far more formidable than her potential opposition in 2016.
一些自由派也认为，民主党的一个关注点是不断拉大的收入不平等，而克林顿和华尔街之间存在太多联系，有可能因此遭到攻击。但她在收入不平等方面的弱点，远不如她2008年在伊拉克问题上的弱点：当民主党的选民反对战争时，克林顿作为参议员投了赞成票。即使在当时，她也赢得了48%的承诺代表的支持，而当时她的对手的实力，远远超过2016年有可能和她竞争的人。
Mrs. Clinton’s weaknesses may not be enough to derail her primary campaign, but it may help assure that she will not be a juggernaut in the general election. Her favorability ratings, which soared into the 60s while she was secretary of state, have already returned to the mid-40s. Those figures are far more reminiscent of recent polarizing presidential nominees who faced close elections, like Mr. Obama or Mitt Romney in 2012. General election polls, which often show Mrs. Clinton leading her likeliest Republican opponents by double-digit margins, are not informative this far from the election.
克林顿的薄弱点可能不足以破坏她的初选活动，但却有可能导致她无法在大选中获胜。在她担任国务卿时，人们对她的好感度飙升到60以上，现在已经回到了45左右。这些数字就更容易让人想起以前，毁誉两极的总统候选人面对势均力敌的选战的情景，比如2012年的奥巴马或米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)。在大选民调中，克林顿常常以两位数的优势领先于共和党对手，但这些民调目前无法说明问题。
Mrs. Clinton’s chances will depend in no small part on national political conditions. The general election is still 19 months away, and much can change, but today’s political environment is consistent with a close election that might tilt slightly toward the Republicans. The president’s approval rating — now in the mid-40s — and the steady pace of economic growth are consistent with a competitive election, but she is also running for a third consecutive Democratic term in the White House. There is some evidence that, all else being equal, it is modestly more difficult for the president’s party to hold the White House for more than two consecutive terms.
克林顿的机会将在相当大的程度上取决于美国的政治状况。大选离现在还有19个月，很多事情都有可能发生变化，但从目前的政治环境来看，这次大选有可能会出现势均力敌的状况，稍微偏向共和党一点。总统的支持率——目前在45左右——以及经济增长的稳健步伐，也表明这次大选不会出现一边倒的状况，但同时，她这是在寻求民主党连续第三次执掌白宫。一些证据表明，在其它所有条件相同的情况下，总统所在的政党要连续两次以上执掌白宫，略微更加困难一些。
If Mrs. Clinton does have an advantage in the general election, it is more likely to reflect the advantages of today’s Democratic coalition, not her strengths as a candidate. The ascent of a new generation of Democratic-leaning young and nonwhite voters may have broken the electoral deadlock of the late 1990s and early 2000s, giving the Democrats a modest advantage when these groups turn out in relatively high numbers, as they do in presidential elections.
如果说克林顿在大选中确实存在优势，那更有可能是民主党如今这个联盟的优势得到了体现，而不是她作为候选人的实力。新一代亲民主党的年轻人和非白人选民，可能已经打破了20世纪90年代末和21世纪初的选举僵局，给民主党带来了小幅优势，因为这些群体的投票率现在相对较高，在总统选举中会发挥更大作用。