NEW YORK — Hillary Clinton on Sunday abruptly left a ceremony in New York marking the 15th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and a video appeared to show her struggling to maintain her balance as a pair of Secret Service agents lifted her into a van. The incident, according to a statement from her physician, was related to pneumonia and dehydration.
纽约——周日，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)突然离开在纽约举行的一场纪念9·11袭击15周年的活动。一段视频显示，她似乎难以保持平衡，被两名特勤人员扶进了房车。她的医师发表声明称，出现这样的状况，与肺炎和脱水有关。
“Secretary Clinton has been experiencing a cough related to allergies. On Friday, during follow up evaluation of her prolonged cough, she was diagnosed with pneumonia,” said Dr. Lisa R. Bardack, who examined Clinton at her house in Chappaqua, New York, on Sunday. “She was put on antibiotics, and advised to rest and modify her schedule. While at this morning’s event, she became overheated and dehydrated. I have just examined her and she is now rehydrated and recovering nicely.”
“克林顿国务卿因过敏咳嗽了一段时间。周五，在对她持续难愈的咳嗽进行了进一步评估之后，确诊为肺炎，”莉萨·R·巴达克博士(Lisa R. Bardack)说。她于周日在克林顿位于纽约州查帕阔的家里给她做了检查。“她已经开始服用抗生素，也得到了休息和调整日程的建议。在今天上午的活动中，她出现了过热和脱水的症状。我刚刚给她检查了身体，现在已经补足水分，恢复得很好。”
Clinton was taken from the morning event at ground zero to the Manhattan apartment of her daughter, Chelsea. About 90 minutes after arriving there, Clinton emerged from the apartment.
克林顿被带离上午在世贸中心举行的纪念活动的现场，前往她女儿切尔西(Chelsea)在曼哈顿的公寓。抵达那里90分钟后，她从公寓里现身。
“I’m feeling great,” Clinton said. “It’s a beautiful day in New York.”
“我现在感觉很好，”克林顿说。“今天纽约天气很不错。”
Clinton left in her motorcade without the group of reporters that is designated to travel with her in public. A campaign spokesman, Nick Merrill, indicated that she returned to her Chappaqua residence after 1 p.m., but did not give an exact time.
之后，克林顿与她的车队离开，被指派与她一同出行的记者没有跟随。竞选团队发言人尼克·梅里尔(Nick Merrill)表示她在下午一点之后回到了自己位于查帕阔的住宅，但没有给出确切时间。
Merrill described the Democratic presidential nominee as feeling “overheated” during the commemoration ceremony.
据梅里尔描述，这位民主党总统提名人在纪念活动期间是感觉“过热”。
But a video of Clinton taken by an attendee appears to show her legs buckling as she struggles to steady herself and walk toward her waiting van. She requires assistance from two Secret Service agents, who held her on either side, to get off a curb and into the van. Close-up images revealed her feet were dragging as she was hoisted into the vehicle.
但出席活动的一个人拍下的视频似乎显示，克林顿的腿软了，难以保持平衡，无法走到等待她的房车里。她向两名特勤人员求助，他们一人扶着一边，将她带离路边，送进了房车。放大画面可以看到，在被架进车时，她的双脚是拖着的。
“She seemed fine,” said Rep. Peter T. King, R-N.Y., who recalled greeting and speaking briefly with the former secretary of state around 8:30 a.m.
“她当时看着好像没事，”来自纽约州的共和党联邦众议员彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)说。他回忆的是上午8点半左右自己与克林顿打招呼和短暂寒暄时的情景。
But about an hour later there was a minor commotion, King said. A number of New York’s current and former elected officials had been standing in silence as the names of the victims of the attacks were read. Suddenly, Clinton, herself a former New York senator, left her position.
金表示，不过大概一小时之后，现场出现了小小的骚动。一群纽约现任和前任民选官员正静静地站立着，倾听9·11袭击遇难者的名字被一一念诵。此时，本身曾任纽约州联邦参议员的克林顿突然离场。