WASHINGTON — A close confidant of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s, Sidney Blumenthal, has provided the House committee investigating the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, with dozens of pages of emails between him and Mrs. Clinton about Libya that were not included in the trove of emails that the State Department gave to the panel, according to people briefed on the matter.
华盛顿——据数位知情人士透露，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的心腹西德尼·布鲁门塔尔(Sidney Blumenthal)向负责调查2012年利比亚班加西袭击事件的众议院委员会提供了数十页电子邮件，涉及他和克林顿就利比亚局势的通信往来，国务院(State Department)交给该委员会的大量邮件没有将这些包括在内。
The emails are similar to others that were provided to the committee by the State Department in February, the people said. Those emails included information about Libya that Mr. Blumenthal was passing along. Mrs. Clinton often forwarded the memos to her deputies to seek their feedback.
这位知情人士称，这次上交的邮件，跟国务院在2月提供的邮件是类似的。其中包含一些布鲁门塔尔转交的有关利比亚的信息。克林顿经常将这些备忘录转发给自己的副手们，听取他们的意见。
The committee had issued a subpoena to Mr. Blumenthal for any emails he had exchanged with Mrs. Clinton.
此前，委员会曾给布鲁门塔尔发传票，要求他提供所有和克林顿之间的邮件往来资料。
It is not clear whether Mr. Blumenthal’s emails were among the 30,000 pages of emails from Mrs. Clinton’s personal account that she provided to the State Department last year. Senior State Department officials have repeatedly said that they had fully complied with the committee’s requests for the emails, while the committee’s chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, had harshly criticized the department for not providing documents to the panel.
目前还不清楚，克林顿去年向国务院提交的个人账号下的三万页电子邮件是否包含布鲁门塔尔此次提供的邮件。尽管国务院高级官员一再重申，他们已经完全按照委员会的要求提供了邮件，委员会主席、南卡罗来纳州共和党众议员特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)还是严厉指责国务院不给委员会提供文件。
Alec Gerlach, a spokesman for the State Department, said, “We provided the committee with a subset of documents that matched its request and will continue to work with them going forward.” Secretary of State John Kerry “has been clear that the State Department will be both transparent and thorough in its obligations to the public on this matter,” he added.
国务院发言人亚历克·格拉克(Alec Gerlach)表示，“我们已经提供了一部分与委员会要求相匹配的文件，接下来也会继续配合他们的工作。”国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)“已经明确表示国务院会尽到与此事有关的信息公开义务，做到既透明又彻底，”他还说。
An official for the committee declined to comment.
委员会的一位官员拒绝就此事置评。
Mrs. Clinton said that after she provided the 30,000 emails to the State Department, she deleted roughly the same number of emails from the account, which, she said, were personal and not related to her work as secretary of state.
克林顿表示，在向国务院提交了三万页邮件之后，她在自己的邮件账号下另外删除了大约同样数量的邮件，她表示这些都是私人邮件，与她当时的国务卿工作无关。
Mr. Blumenthal is scheduled to appear Tuesday before the committee for a deposition. Mr. Gowdy wants to question Mr. Blumenthal about where he was receiving his information about Libya and who was paying him to produce the memos.
本周二，布鲁门塔尔将去委员会做证。高迪想询问他，从哪里获取了与利比亚有关的信息，以及当时是谁付费让他撰写了那些备忘录。
At the time that Mr. Blumenthal was sending the memos to Mrs. Clinton, he was being paid by the Clinton Foundation. Among Mr. Blumenthal’s responsibilities was to help with research, “message guidance” and the planning of commemorative events, according to foundation officials.
布鲁门塔尔给克林顿发送备忘录时，给他付费的是克林顿基金会。该基金会官员表示，布鲁门塔尔的职责包括协助研究、“信息指导”和策划纪念活动。
At the same time, Mr. Blumenthal, a former aide to President Bill Clinton, was a paid consultant to Media Matters for America and American Bridge, organizations that conduct research and answer attacks against Mrs. Clinton.
曾任比尔·克林顿总统的前助理布鲁门塔尔当时还是美国媒体问题组织(Media Matters for America)和美国之桥(American Bridge)的受薪顾问，这两个机构都针对克林顿面临的攻击作出了相应的研究和回应。