For all of her famed competence, Hillary Clinton has also been, from the beginning, something of a stumbler. While she was still a prospective first lady, she famously insulted all those cookie-baking mothers of the world; there was a gap between her and everywoman, and she walked right into it with a misstep that colored her public persona going forward. She has stumbled in traps of her own making — those emails — and traps set by others.
以出众的能力闻名的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，同时也是个容易跌跌撞撞的人，从一开始就是这样。当年有望成为第一夫人时，她对全世界的贤妻良母发起了一次广为人知的攻击，彼时她和普通女性之间是有隔阂的，而那次失言让她一脚踏进这种隔阂里，为她今后的公众形象塑造定了调。她曾经跌入自己制造的陷阱——那些邮件——但也有别人的陷阱。
And yet, even after years of those missteps, Clinton has always somehow righted herself. She has withstood not just her own missteps but also the relentless attacks on her personally: on her cankles, her coldness, her hairstyles, her marital choices, her audacity, her arrogance, her calculatedness. This summer, a gift shop at Baltimore-Washington International Airport sold a novelty item called the “inflatable mini Hillary bop bag”; the box displays a large, presumably male fist in contact with the side of Clinton’s head and the words: “She falls down, but pops back up!” It is a hateful and misogynist object that can’t hide its grudging admiration, which is much of Hillary Clinton’s public perception in a nutshell.
然而，多年来频频失策的克林顿似乎总是能挽回局面。不但可以捱过自己的失策，还顶住了持续不断的人身攻击：针对她的粗脚踝，她的冰冷，她的发型，她的配偶选择，她的无畏，她的自大，她的算计。巴尔的摩-华盛顿国际机场的一家礼品店今夏推出了一种创意小玩具叫“充气迷你希拉里不倒翁”；盒子上有一只大拳头——应该是男性的——击打在克林顿的头部侧面，旁边写着一行字：“她倒下了，但又弹起来啦！”如此恶毒而厌女的一件物品，却又掩饰不住一种不情不愿的钦佩，堪称希拉里·克林顿的公众形象缩影。
That hard-won resiliency provides an unavoidable — even poignant — subtext of the widely viewed video that surfaced yesterday, showing Clinton stumbling as she tried to enter a waiting van following a sudden departure from a Sept. 11 memorial event. A young woman — it is touching that it is a young woman — is holding her under her left arm as they wait for her vehicle to pull up. Clinton sways backward before moving forward. She stumbles a little, wobbles from side to side, then stumbles again and again, each time moving a bit more erratically.
这种苦心经营的顽强面目，给日前疯转的一段视频提供了一些难以摆脱、甚至有些心酸的潜台词，刚刚突然离开一个9·11纪念活动会场的克林顿，在视频中步履蹒跚。等车的时候，一名年轻女性搀着她的左臂——由年轻女性搀扶这一点令人心生恻隐。在迈步前，克林顿的身体向后倒了一下。她晃了晃，左右摇摆着，然后一直磕磕绊绊，身体姿态越来越不正常。
The door of the van is just a few feet away. Inside that door is safety, privacy, a quick escape to her daughter’s home; no one will be the wiser if she can just get to the car. Surely she can make it that far. She is, for better or for worse, Iron Woman, who stumbles but never falls — until she does. She almost disappears from sight as she plunges, her weight supported by the security team around her. Her feet scrape the ground.
面包车离她只有几英尺。走进车里就有安全与私隐，很快就可以躲到自己的女儿家中，只要能径直上车，谁也不会知道这事。而她当然能挺下来。是好是坏且不说，她毕竟是“钢铁女侠”，会晃悠但绝不会倒下——然后她就倒了。她向前一个趔趄，几乎消失在画面中，身边的安保人员支撑着她的身体。她的脚在地上拖着。
It turned out to be pneumonia, which her team knew as early as Friday. It’s her lungs that were impaired, not her brain, as Tom Brokaw originally rushed to suggest on “Meet the Press”; she should see a neurologist, he said. But instead, it was a problem of breath, a kind of small suffocation.
事后得知是肺炎，而她的团队上周五就已经知道了。是她的肺有损伤，而非汤姆·布罗考(Tom Brokaw)说的那样，是脑有问题。他一开始在《会见媒体》(Meet the Press)上草率地建议她去看神经科。然而实际上是因为呼吸的问题，某种轻微的窒息。
It seems unlikely that Donald Trump has familiarized himself with Susan Sontag’s “Illness as Metaphor,” in which Sontag argued that illness is often perceived as a result of weak character traits. But for weeks, Trump seemed to be working off some kind of Sontag-inspired playbook. Clinton was not just lacking in the physical stamina required to fight ISIS, he said, “but the mental stamina”; his team often spoke of her as “frail.”
很难想象唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)读过苏珊·桑塔格(Susan Sontag)的《疾病的隐喻》(Illness as Metaphor)。桑塔格在书中指出，疾病时常被认为是软弱的性格特质造成的。然而过去几周里，特朗普的一举一动似乎都受到了桑塔格的启发。他说，克林顿不只是缺乏与ISIS作战所需的身体耐力，“还缺精神韧性”；他的团队经常形容她很“虚弱”。
In turning illness into a personality flaw, a dangerous side effect of femaleness, Trump most likely made it all the more difficult for Clinton to acknowledge straightaway whatever health issue was in fact troubling her, whenever it kicked in in earnest. We now know she had a diagnosis of pneumonia at least two days before she declared to the press outside her daughter’s apartment, using language that might have been drafted by the world’s lamest crisis manager, that she was “feeling great” and that it was “a beautiful day in New York.” To confirm that she was sick, when she had any other choice, might be to confirm all the other absurdist allegations from Trump’s team; was it also irrefutable evidence that she did not have “a presidential look”?
通过把疾病变成人格缺陷，某种身为女性特有的危险副作用，特朗普很可能导致克林顿更加无法坦率承认自己的健康问题，不管是什么困扰着她，不管什么时候突然爆发。在女儿的公寓外，她用着大概是世上最烂的危机公关者写下的言语，表示自己“感觉好极了”，还有今天“纽约天真不错”，现在我们知道她至少两天前已经诊断为肺炎。在并非万不得已的时候，证实自己的病情，也许就等于证实了特朗普团队的其他荒诞说法，比如这是否也将成为她没有“总统相”的铁证？
The Friday before the Sept. 11 event, Clinton made yet another misstep, saying that some portion of Trump’s supporters belonged in a “basket of deplorables.” And given her reputation, deserved or not, for secrecy and untrustworthiness, delaying revealing the truth was a risky strategy. Her fans tried to portray it as something else: Toughing it out by showing up at the event in the first place showed incredible stamina, admirable stamina, they argued. It was just like a woman to get on with her work despite feeling ill — it’s what women do.
参加9·11纪念活动前的那个周五，克林顿还有一次失误，她说特朗普的某些支持者是“遭人唾弃之辈”。考虑到她在保密和可信度方面的名声——不管是否属实——迟迟不道出真相是一种很冒险的策略。她的支持者试图从另一个角度去描绘此事，他们说，强忍病痛前去参加活动，本身就展现了惊人的韧性，令人钦佩的韧性。这就跟一个女人要抱病去上班一样——女人向来如此。
Sontag warned against conflating physical illness with any kind of mental state. “Theories that diseases are caused by mental states … are always an index of how much is not understood about the physical terrain of a disease,” she wrote.
桑塔格告诫我们，不要把身体的疾患和任何精神状态混为一谈。“心态导致疾病……此类理论，无一例外地透露出人们对于疾病的生理方面的理解何其贫乏，”她写道。
To make a metaphor of sickness is usually to imply judgment. In the narrative of this particular, strange election cycle, Clinton’s moment of evident illness will surely come to symbolize something. What that is, exactly, depends on how crudely, how truthfully, campaigners on both sides manipulate or manage a subject that is both intimately personal and yet significant for the public. The body politic will be watching closely, knowing that its health, even more than hers, is in need of good care.
提出一个疾患的隐喻，往往含有一种判断。具体到这一个特殊而怪异的选举周期，克林顿患病的证据无疑将成为一种象征。它究竟象征了什么，取决于竞选双方打算如何残酷地、如实地操纵或控制这一话题，它是关乎个人的，但同时也对公众极为重要。全体国民在密切关注，他们知道国家的健康比她的身体更迫切地需要得到妥善护理。