Hillary Rodham Clinton, a former secretary of state, has been most outspoken in recent years on foreign policy matters. But she has also taken positions on domestic and economic issues, like immigration and income inequality, that have been at the center of policy discussions since she left government. Here is a look at where she stands on some major issues.
近些年来，前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在外交政策问题上最直言不讳。但她也在国内及经济议题上表达过立场，比如移民及收入不平等问题，这些问题在她离开政府后成为了政策讨论的主题。下面来看看她在一些主要问题上的立场。
Mrs. Clinton has long advocated a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians. She declined to comment on the recent Israeli election, even as many Republicans came out in support of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. She calls herself “an emphatic, unwavering supporter of Israel’s safety and security.”
克林顿一直主张通过两国方案解决巴以问题。以色列最近举行了大选，就在很多共和党人都表态支持总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)的时候，克林顿拒绝置评。她称自己“明确而坚定地支持以色列的安全”。
Regarding the Islamic State, Mrs. Clinton has said the failure to help some of the more moderate rebels during the Syrian uprising led to a power vacuum that set the stage for the rise of Islamic militancy.
在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的问题上，克林顿曾表示，我们在叙利亚内乱期间没能帮助一些比较温和的反对派，这导致出现了权力真空，为伊斯兰激进分子的崛起创造了条件。
Like most leading Democrats, Mrs. Clinton has called for government action to fight climate change, saying, “The science of climate change is unforgiving, no matter what the deniers may say; sea levels are rising, ice caps are melting, storms, droughts and wildfires are wreaking havoc.” She has supported cap and trade, under which companies can trade carbon credits to reduce harmful emissions.
与大多数民主党领导人物一样，克林顿也呼吁政府采取行动来应对气候变化。她说，“气候变化的科学原理是无情的，不论否认者怎么说；海平面在上升，冰帽在消融，暴风雨、干旱和森林火灾也在肆虐。”她支持碳排放限额交易(cap and trade)。根据这项安排，企业能进行碳排放额度的交易，从而减少有害排放。
She supports President Obama’s decision to use his executive powers to reshape the nation’s immigration policy, saying it was needed “to begin fixing our broken immigration system and focus finite resources on deporting felons rather than families.”
她支持奥巴马总统利用行政权力来重塑美国移民政策的决定，称美国需要这种政策“来修复我们支离破碎的移民制度，把有限的资源集中用于驱逐罪犯而非家庭”。
Mrs. Clinton has yet to outline her economic strategy, but people close to her say she is expected to support raising the minimum wage, closing corporate tax loopholes, cutting taxes for the middle class and investing in infrastructure.
克林顿尚未阐述自己的经济政策，但与她关系密切的人表示，她将支持提高最低工资、填补企业税收漏洞、减轻中产阶级税负，并进行基础设施投资。