WHEN politicians have trouble spinning their own glories, that’s a problem.
如果一个政客编造不出自己的光辉事迹，那就出问题了。
So it was bizarre that Hillary Rodham Clinton, asked at a forum in April about her legacy at the State Department, had trouble articulating it. That feeds into a narrative — awaiting her memoir on Tuesday — that she may have been glamorous as secretary of state but didn’t actually accomplish much.
这就是为什么当希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在四月的一个论坛上被人问起领导国务院(State Department)有何政绩时，她的表述之吃力是让人感到诧异的。眼看她的回忆录将于周二出版，这件事进一步助长了一种说法，即她虽然是个光彩照人的国务卿，但其实没有什么成就。
In fact, that’s dead wrong, for Clinton achieved a great deal and left a hefty legacy — just not the traditional kind. She didn’t craft a coalition of allies, like James Baker, one of the most admired secretaries of state. She didn’t seal a landmark peace agreement, nor is there a recognizable “Hillary Clinton doctrine.”
这说法大错特错，事实上克林顿有很多的成就，政绩实为可观——只不过不是传统意义上的那种。她没有像詹姆斯·贝克(James Baker)——最受仰慕的国务卿之一——那样精心构建一个联盟。她没有促成一项划时代的和平协议，也没提出一个具有辨识度的“希拉里·克林顿主义”。
No, her legacy is different.
她的政绩是与众不同的。
For starters, Clinton recognized that our future will be more about Asia than Europe, and she pushed hard to rebalance our relations. She didn’t fully deliver on this “pivot” — generally she was more successful at shaping agendas than delivering on them — but the basic instinct to turn our ship of state to face our Pacific future was sound and overdue.
首先，克林顿认识到我们的未来更多地在亚洲而非欧洲，并奋力推行外交关系的“再平衡”。她没有完全实现这种“转向”——总的来说，她对议程的规划要优于实现——然而，将美国这艘船的航行转至我们的太平洋未来的方向，这样的直觉是可靠的，而且早该如此。
More fundamentally, Clinton vastly expanded the diplomatic agenda. Diplomats historically focused on “hard” issues, like trade or blowing up stuff, and so it may seem weird and “soft” to fret about women’s rights or economic development.
在更根本的层面上，克林顿大规模扩展了外交议程。以往的外交人士都会把注意力放在“硬”问题上，比如贸易，或者去炸掉什么东西，因此，如果在女性权益或者经济发展这种事情上忧心忡忡，就显得既古怪又“软”了。
Yet Clinton understood that impact and leverage in 21st-century diplomacy often come by addressing poverty, the environment, education and family planning.
然而克林顿明白，21世纪外交的影响力和本钱，往往是通过对贫困、环境、教育和家庭规划等问题的处理得来的。
It’s not that Clinton was a softie. She was often more hawkish than the White House, favoring the surge in Afghanistan (a mistake, I believe) and the arming of moderate Syrian rebel groups (a good call, but one vetoed by President Obama).
克林顿并不软。相比白宫，她往往更倾向于鹰派，主张增兵阿富汗（这一点，我认为是错了），向叙利亚温和派反叛组织提供武装（好建议，但被奥巴马总统否决）。
Yet she grew truly animated when discussing the new diplomatic agenda. A couple of times I moderated panels during the United Nations General Assembly in which she talked passionately — and bewilderingly, for some of the audience — about civil society, women leaders and agricultural investments.
在讨论新的外交议程时，她就显出了真正的活力。在我主持的几次联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)座谈会上，她曾经就公民社会、女性领袖和农业投资发表过充满激情的讲话，而这对有的观众来说是令人困惑的。
Pinstriped foreign and prime ministers looked on, happy to be considered important enough to be invited. They listened with increasingly furrowed brows, as if absorbing an alien language, as Clinton brightly spoke about topics such as “the business case for focusing on gender in agricultural development.”
外国商人和总理们在一旁聆听，他们对自己有资格受邀参加这种级别的活动感到高兴。随着讲话的进行，他们的眉头皱得越来越紧，仿佛在努力掌握一门外星语言，克林顿正在热情地谈着“在农业发展中关注性别问题的商业论证”。
Clinton was relentless about using the spotlight that accompanied her to highlight those who needed it more. At one global forum, she went out of her way to praise Muhammad Yunus, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning entrepreneur of microfinance, who was being persecuted by the Bangladesh prime minister. On trips, she found time to visit shelters for victims of human trafficking or aid groups doing groundbreaking work.
利用自身吸引到的聚光灯，克林顿不断地去突显那些更需要关注的人。在一个国际论坛上，她特意赞扬了诺贝尔和平奖得主、小额信贷倡导者穆罕默德·尤努斯(Muhammad Yunus)，当时他正受到孟加拉国总理的迫害。出行期间，她会抽时间去探访人口贩卖受害者的庇护所，或协助一些组织去完成突破性的工作。
She may hide it, but Clinton is a policy nerd. Ask about microfinance, and she’ll talk your ear off. Mention early childhood interventions, and she will gush about obscure details of a home visitation experiment in Elmira, N.Y., that dramatically improved child outcomes.
虽然隐藏得很好，但克林顿其实是个政策迷。你要问她小额信贷，她会跟你说个没完。跟她提一句儿童早期干预，她会滔滔不绝地讲述纽约州埃尔迈拉一个家访实验的种种复杂细节，该实验给孩子的成长带去极大助益。
The kidnapping of the Nigerian schoolgirls in April was the kind of issue Clinton was out front of. She understood that educating girls isn’t a frilly “soft” issue, but a way to transform a country to make it less hospitable to extremists. No one argued more presciently that women’s rights are security issues.
四月发生在尼日利亚的女学生绑架案，正是克林顿会凛然面对的那种问题。她知道向女孩提供教育并非旁枝末节的“软”问题，而是一种给国家带来转变的方式，让这个国家变得不那么容易滋生极端主义。在女性权益属于安全问题这一点上，她的论证最具预见性。
“Those who argue that her championing of outreach to women and girls and her elevation of development was not serious miss a central reality of international politics in this century,” notes Nicholas Burns, who was undersecretary of state in the George W. Bush presidency. “These issues are now mainstream globally.”
“她提倡关爱妇女与儿童，推崇发展，有人认为这些都不是正经事，这种想法忽视了本世纪国际政治的一个核心现实，”曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府任助理国务卿的尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(Nicholas Burns)说。“这些现在都是全球性的主流问题。”
“I disagree very strongly with those who charge that Hillary Clinton was not successful,” adds Burns, who is now at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. “A fair-minded view is that she was, in fact, highly effective.”
“对那些指责希拉里不成功的人，我是非常不赞同的，”现供职于哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院(Kennedy School of Government)的伯恩斯说。“公平地看，她实际上非常有效。”
Clinton was pioneering not only in the way she expanded the diplomatic agenda, but also in the tools she forged to promote it. She pushed government-to-people relations and people-to-people ties.
克林顿的开创性不仅体现在她对外交议程的拓展上，还有她为了推广这些议程而打造的手段。她促进了政府与人民、人民与人民的关系。
Some of this was pioneered in the George W. Bush administration, but Clinton greatly escalated public diplomacy with a rush into social media.
这其中有一部分是乔治·W·布什政府起得头，但是克林顿通过迅速进入社交媒体，大幅提高了公共外交水平。
“She was very clear about it: This is the 21st century, and we’re fools if we don’t use it,” recalls Michael McFaul, who became ambassador to Russia in this time. McFaul then had no idea what a tweet was, and there was strong resistance from senior diplomats. “I said the boss wants to do this,” McFaul recalls, and he ultimately became a champion tweeter.
“她想得很清楚：这是21世纪，不把这利用起来就是傻子了，”现为驻俄罗斯大使的迈克尔·麦克福尔(Michael McFaul)回忆道。麦克福尔当时根本不知道什么叫一条“推文”(tweet)，资深外交人士对此颇为抗拒。“我说是老板要求的，”麦克福尔回忆道，后来他成了一个顶尖的推特用户。
Today it’s routine to use social media in multiple languages to communicate American diplomatic messages to the world.
使用多种语言在社交媒体中进行沟通，将美国的外交讯息传达给全世界，如今已经是一个常规手段。