Hillary Clinton’s lead in the popular vote is growing. She is roughly 30,000 votes behind Donald Trump in the key swing states of Michigan and Wisconsin — a combined gap that is narrowing. Her impassioned supporters are now urging her to challenge the results in those two states and Pennsylvania, grasping at the last straws to reverse Trump’s decisive majority in the Electoral College.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在普选中的优势正在增加。而在关键的摇摆州密歇根州和威斯康辛州，她落后唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)大约3万票――一个微弱的整体差距。她的狂热支持者现在敦促她质疑这两个州和宾夕法尼亚州的结果，抓住最后一根稻草，扭转特朗普在选举团选举中的决定性多数。
In recent days, they have seized on a report by a respected computer scientist and other experts suggesting that Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the keys to Trump’s Electoral College victory, need to manually review paper ballots to assure the election was not hacked.
最近几天，他们抓住了一位受人尊敬的计算机科学家和其他专家的一份报告，该报告认为密歇根州、宾夕法尼亚州和威斯康星州，也就是特朗普在选举团选举中获胜的关键州，需要人工审查纸质选票，以确保选举结果没有被黑客影响。
“Were this year’s deviations from pre-election polls the results of a cyberattack?” J. Alex Halderman, a computer science professor at the University of Michigan who has studied the vulnerabilities of election systems at length, wrote on Medium on Wednesday as the calls based on his conclusions mounted. “Probably not.”
“今年选举结果同选举前民调之间的偏差是否系黑客袭击所致？”密歇根大学的计算机科学教授J·亚历克斯·哈德曼(J. Alex Halderman)曾详细研究过选举电脑系统的脆弱性，上述呼吁正是建立在他的结论基础上的，随着这些呼吁与日俱增，他于周三在Medium网站上撰文，“可能不会。”
More likely, he wrote, pre-election polls were “systematically wrong.” But the only way to resolve the lingering questions would be to examine “paper ballots and voting equipment in critical states,” he wrote.
他写道，更有可能的是，选举前的民调存在“系统性错误”。不过他也写道，要消除遗留的疑虑，唯一的方法是检查“关键州的纸质选票和投票设备”。
Tellingly, the pleas for recounts have gained no support from the Clinton campaign, which has concluded, along with outside experts, that it is highly unlikely the outcome would change even after an expensive and time-consuming review of ballots.
颇能说明问题的是，重新计票的请求没有得到克林顿阵营的支持，他们及外部专家都认为，即使经过昂贵和费时的选票审查，结果也不太可能改变。
But that has not quieted Clinton’s supporters, who see the inequity of her growing lead in the national popular vote, which is now more than 2 million votes, or 1.5 percent of all ballots cast, according to the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, which regularly updates its count as states continue to tally and to certify votes.
但是，这并没有令克林顿的支持者沉默下来，根据无党派网站库克政治报告(Cook Political Report)统计，她在普选中的优势不断增长，现在已经领先200多万票，占总投票数的1.5％，随着各州继续计算与核实票数，该网站还在定期更新它的统计结果。
Since there is currently no effort to review the paper ballots — which exist in Michigan and Wisconsin, but only in parts of Pennsylvania — conspiracy theories about the 2016 election may live on for years. After U.S. intelligence agencies accused Russia of trying to influence the election by stealing and publishing emails from the Democratic National Committee and a range of other institutions and prominent individuals, the United States went on high alert to determine if there was any attempt to sabotage the vote count. So far, no one in the Obama administration has indicated that there is any such evidence.
由于目前没有审查纸质选票――这种选票在密歇根州和威斯康星州使用，但在宾夕法尼亚州只有部分地区使用――关于2016年选举的阴谋论或许可以继续存活数年时间。美国情报机构指控俄罗斯通过窃取和公布民主党全国委员会以及其他机构、名人的电子邮件来影响选举，之后美国一直保持高度警戒，以确定是否有其他企图破坏投票计数的行为。到目前为止，奥巴马政府没人表示存在这样的证据。
In the three battleground states, Clinton is behind by 1.2 percent or less, and the final results have not yet been certified.
在这三个摇摆州，克林顿只落后1.2%或更少，最终的结果还没有得到认证。
Uniting around the social media hashtag #AuditTheVote, the campaign-after-the-campaign has picked up momentum among grass-roots activists still mourning Trump’s victory and who echo, paradoxically, his pre-election complaint that the vote was “rigged.”
这一竞选后的活动依靠#AuditTheVote（审计选票）这个社交媒体上的召集标签，获得了仍在为特朗普当选而悲伤的民间活动人士的支持；吊诡的是，他们和特朗普在选举前称选举被“操纵”的抱怨如出一辙。
“Based on the information of the intelligence community that Russia was actively trying to screw around with our election, I thought why not take the time and question this,” said Michelle Zuckerman-Parker, an engineer in Pittsburgh, who on Wednesday planned to petition her county election board for a recount of the Nov. 8 vote.
“根据情报机构的说法，俄罗斯努力在我们的选举中搞鬼，我想为什么不花时间来质疑这个问题呢，”匹兹堡工程师米歇尔·扎克曼-帕克(Michelle Zuckerman-Parker)说，她在周三计划向县选举委员会请愿，对11月8日的选举进行重新计票。
That view spread quickly on social media on Tuesday evening when New York magazine published an article about Halderman and others who had contacted the remnants of the Clinton campaign. It also generated pushback by experts who said that even though it was theoretically possible to hack voting machines, it would be enormously difficult — because it would have to be highly targeted in key precincts and conducted on a scale required to assure Trump’s victory.
周二晚上，这个观点在社交媒体上迅速传播开来，当时《纽约》(New York)杂志发表了一篇关于哈德曼以及其他与克林顿竞选活动剩余人员有过接触者的文章。这篇文章遭到了专家的反驳，他们说，即使理论上可以对投票的电脑进行黑客攻击，也会是非常困难的――因为攻击必须高度集中在关键的选区，并达到一定规模，以保证特朗普的胜利。