In summer 2013, Hillary Clinton had just left the State Department and returned to New York. She planned a quiet year, basking in sky-high approval ratings and enjoying a respite from the media spotlight as she laid the groundwork for a second presidential run.
2013年夏，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)刚刚离开国务院回到纽约。她打算度过安静的一年，在享受超高支持率的同时暂避媒体的关注，为第二次竞选总统做基础工作。
Then Carlos Danger happened.
然后“危险卡洛斯”(Carlos Danger)事件就发生了。
Anthony Weiner, the husband of Clinton’s closest aide, Huma Abedin, was running for mayor of New York City when news broke that he had continued to exchange lewd messages with women online after the practice cost him his congressional seat. This time, he used the embarrassing Spanish-inspired moniker.
克林顿最亲密的助理胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)的丈夫安东尼·韦纳(Anthony Weiner)曾因被曝出在网上持续与若干女性互发带有色情意味的信息而辞任众议员。后来在竞选纽约市长期间，他再次被发现有此类行为。这一次，他使用了这个尴尬的、带有西班牙色彩的化名。
The tawdry story line and Abedin’s closeness to Clinton made the events explode far beyond New York, dragging Clinton’s name into messy headlines about penis pictures, Weiner’s descriptions of his sexual appetites and his online paramour named Sydney Leathers.
艳俗的故事情节以及阿贝丁同克林顿的亲密关系令事件的影响力爆出纽约之外，把克林顿的名字也拖上了不堪入目的新闻标题，和阴茎照片、韦纳对自己性欲的描述，还有他那个网名“皮衣西德尼”(Sydney Leathers)的情人交缠在一起。
Now, with Clinton seemingly on the cusp of winning the White House, Weiner, who once described himself as “a perpetually horny middle-aged man,” has pulled her into another drama. Federal investigators looking into his sexual messaging with an underage girl stumbled upon thousands of emails potentially pertinent to the FBI inquiry into Clinton’s  private email server.
如今，就在克林顿似乎快要入主白宫之际，自称“人到中年，欲火焚身”的韦纳又把她拖进另一场大戏。联邦调查员在调查他与一个未成年女孩互发的性爱信息时，无意中发现了数千封邮件，可能同联邦调查局正在调查的克林顿私人邮件服务器事件有关。
The jolting development highlighted not only the intersecting lives of Clinton, Abedin and Weiner, but also the pattern that has characterized the Clintons’ relationships with the sometimes oddly behaving inhabitants of their insular world: Even amid accusations of sexual or financial impropriety, the Clintons’ first instinct is to hunker down and protect those in their orbit, sometimes leading to more ugly eruptions later and, eventually, to messy public breakups.
事态的惊人发展不仅清晰地表明克林顿与阿贝丁和韦纳的生活密不可分，也让人看到克林顿夫妇与自己内部圈子的相处模式，这个圈子里不时会出现一些行为异常的人。甚至在深陷不当性行为或不当财务问题指控期间，克林顿夫妇的第一反应仍然是低调行事，保护自己圈子里的人，这种做法有时会导致更加丑陋的大爆发，最终走向难看的当众决裂。
On Friday, several of Clinton’s friends and allies suggested she distance herself from Abedin, a painful prospect given that Clinton has described Abedin as a surrogate daughter and has relied on her more than anyone else during her nearly two-year pursuit of the White House.
周五，克林顿的几个朋友和盟友建议她疏远阿贝丁，要知道，克林顿之前曾经说过，阿贝丁就像她的女儿一样，在两年的总统竞选之路上，她对阿贝丁的依赖比对谁都多，因此这个前景显得非常痛苦。
The two women’s closeness has both intimidated those in the Clinton circle of status-conscious advisers and caused envy. Even as Clinton learned Friday that the FBI’s interest in her email server, which she thought had ended in July, had reignited, Abedin was by her side as she prepared to make a statement to the news media in Des Moines, Iowa.
两个女人的亲密程度甚至让克林顿圈子里那些注重地位的顾问们都感到害怕，也为阿贝丁招来了嫉妒。周五，本以为邮件问题已经在七月了结的克林顿得知，FBI有意再次对她的电子邮件服务器展开调查，而当她在艾奥瓦州的得梅因准备对媒体发表一份声明的时候，阿贝丁依然在她身边。
Pressed by a reporter there about the emails’ having been discovered during the investigation into Weiner’s sexting, Clinton dismissed the reports as “rumors.”
一位记者曾经逼问克林顿，对于调查韦纳的性爱信息期间发现了她的电子邮件一事怎么看，克林顿不屑一顾地说那些都是“谣言”。
Clinton has always been circumspect about Weiner and her feelings toward him. She has steadfastly supported Abedin, 40, as the younger woman stood by her husband, despite the public ridicule and career damage that resulted from his behavior. The Clintons have never publicly criticized Weiner.
说起韦纳，以及她对他的看法，克林顿一贯措辞谨慎。40岁的阿贝丁表示，尽管丈夫的行为令她遭受公众嘲笑，为她的事业带来损失，但她仍然支持丈夫，克林顿也一直坚定地支持她这样做。克林顿夫妇从未当众批评过韦纳。
It was only two months ago that Abedin announced that she was separating from her husband, after she learned that The New York Post planned to publish a story reporting that Weiner had sent a picture of his crotch to a woman online as he lay next to the couple’s 4-year-old son in bed. Clinton was vacationing in the Hamptons at the time and stayed away from the story.
两个月前，阿贝丁得知《纽约邮报》(The New York Post)打算发表一则报道，称韦纳在两人四岁的儿子就躺在身边的情况下，通过网络向一个女人发送自己裆部的照片，直到这时，她才宣布与丈夫分居。克林顿当时在汉普顿度假，没有卷入到这件事情中来。
Privately, aides to Clinton suggested Friday that Abedin would remain alongside Clinton for the final, breakneck stretch of the campaign. But some senior Democrats are now wondering whether, if Clinton is elected, she will be able to bring Abedin along with her for what was once widely expected to be a senior role in the White House.
周五，克林顿的助手们私下建议，阿贝丁可以在选举最后的危急阶段继续留在克林顿身边。但是现在有些资深民主党人怀疑，如果克林顿当选，会不会继续把阿贝丁带在身边，让她像曾经一度被广泛看好的那样，在白宫出任高级官员。
Clinton’s loyalty to Abedin (and vice versa) stems from the decades they have spent working closely together, beginning when Abedin was a 19-year-old intern to the first lady in the 1990s.
克林顿对阿贝丁的忠诚可以追溯到几十年前（反之亦然），1990年代，19岁的阿贝丁曾经在第一夫人身边担任实习生，两人曾一起亲密合作。
At the State Department, Abedin served as deputy chief of staff to Clinton. Emails released by the State Department captured the closeness of their relationship. A jet-lagged Clinton once emailed Abedin at 12:21 a.m. to take her up on an offer to come over to Clinton’s house for a chat. “Just knock on the door to the bedroom if it’s closed,” she wrote.
克林顿担任国务卿期间，阿贝丁成了她的副幕僚长。从国务院公布的电子邮件中可以看到两人有多么亲近。有一次，调整时差中的克林顿在夜里12：21给阿贝丁发邮件，让她到克林顿家里来聊天。“如果卧室的门关着，敲门进来就行了，”她写道。
Abedin’s loyalty and strong identification with both Clintons was conspicuous at the State Department. At a staff meeting in early 2009, she was going through a list of requests from “the president.” When others in the room looked at her in puzzlement, Abedin clarified: “Not President Obama. Our president: Bill Clinton.”
阿贝丁的忠诚以及对克林顿夫妇的强烈认同感在国务院里颇为引人瞩目。2009年初，在一次幕僚会议上，她念起一份来自“总统”的需求清单。屋子里的其他人大惑不解地望着她，阿贝丁解释说：“不是奥巴马总统，是我们的总统：比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。”
Abedin’s high profile and proximity to Clinton also brought her scrutiny. Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, has questioned Abedin’s arrangement to earn income privately while she worked for Clinton at the State Department. In addition to being on Clinton’s personal payroll, Abedin received money from the Clinton Foundation and Teneo, a consulting firm co-founded by Doug Band, a former senior aide to former President Bill Clinton. And some of Abedin’s emails on Clinton’s private server led to accusations that foundation donors had received special access to the State Department.
阿贝丁的极高知名度，以及她和希拉里·克林顿的亲近，也让她受到密切关注。司法委员会主席、来自艾奥瓦州的共和党参议员查克·格拉斯利(Chuck Grassley)曾经对阿贝丁提出质疑，称她在国务院为克林顿工作期间私下赚取收入。除了作为克林顿的工作人员领取薪金，阿贝丁还从克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)和一个名叫Teneo的顾问公司支取薪水，后者是由前总统比尔·克林顿的前任高级助理道格·班德(Doug Band)参与创建的。而阿贝丁在克林顿私人服务器上的一些邮件招来指责，称克林顿基金会的捐助者获取了通向国务院的特殊渠道。
Through it all, Clinton and her longtime adviser Philippe Reines have fiercely protected Abedin.
尽管发生了这一切，克林顿和她的长期顾问菲利普·莱因斯(Philippe Reines)一直拼命保护着阿贝丁。
Hillary Clinton played a part in introducing Abedin and Weiner, then a brash and outspoken Democratic congressman from New York. In August 2001, the young congressman asked Abedin, then an aide to Clinton in the Senate, if she would go out for a drink. Standing behind Clinton, Abedin waved her arms at her boss and shook her head “no.” “Of course all you young people should go out,” Clinton said.
韦纳是个自命不凡、口无遮拦的纽约州民主党众议员，他和阿贝丁能相遇也与希拉里·克林顿有关。 2001年8月，这位年轻的众议员邀请当时在参议院担任克林顿助手的阿贝丁出去喝一杯。当时阿贝丁站在克林顿身后，当着老板，她双臂一挥，摇头说：“不。”“你们年轻人当然可以一起出去玩玩，”克林顿说。
Weiner eventually won Abedin’s affections in January 2007, when he sat between Clinton and her rival, then-Sen. Barack Obama, at President George W. Bush’s State of the Union address. “I appreciate you looking out for my boss,” Abedin texted him. They went out for coffee and were married in July 2010; Bill Clinton performed the ceremony.
2007年1月，韦纳终于赢得了阿贝丁的芳心。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)做国情咨文演讲时，韦纳坐在克林顿与她的竞争对手，当时还是参议员的贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)中间。“感谢你照顾我的老板，”阿贝丁给他发短信。后来两人出去喝了咖啡。2010年7月，他们结婚了；比尔·克林顿出席了婚礼。
Abedin and Clinton’s personal lives have in some ways taken parallel tracks, with each woman choosing to forgive her husband’s humiliating transgressions.
阿贝丁和希拉里·克林顿的个人生活在很多方面都很相似，丈夫做出了耻辱的失检行为后，两个女人都选择了原谅。
Others close to Clinton have not been as understanding. On a campaign conference call the day Weiner admitted he had continued to engage in online liaisons, Reines berated him, yelling that he would “reach through the phone” and “rip out” his throat, adding an expletive.
克林顿身边的其他人就没有那么理解了。承认自己的网络风流事仍在继续后，韦纳在次日的竞选电话会议上被莱因斯痛骂，说要“顺着电话过去”，“撕开”韦纳的喉咙，然后骂了一句脏话。
And some advisers to the Clintons were exasperated this year to learn that Weiner and Abedin were bringing about another distraction: The couple had permitted a behind-the-scenes documentary about Weiner’s circuslike mayoral bid to be made, resurrecting the sexting stories once again.
一些顾问说，今年， 韦纳和阿贝丁又搞出一桩麻烦事，令克林顿夫妇非常生气：这两人授权准许了一个纪录片的拍摄，内容是韦纳这一次马戏团般混乱的市长竞选的幕后故事，此举令性爱短信丑闻再次浮出水面。
But deciding how to handle the current situation could be especially difficult. Cutting out employees who prove politically damaging may seem like Politics 101, but for the Clintons, it has never been easy, particularly when it comes to their oldest and most loyal aides. Abedin and Band both started as White House interns, spent their formative years working for the Clintons and ultimately brought unwelcome headlines to their bosses.
但是眼前的局势尤其难以应付。赶走已证明在政治上为自己带来损害的雇员，这看上去像是从政者应该学会的第一课，但是对于克林顿夫妇来说却从来都不简单，特别是关系到跟随他们时间最长、对他们最忠心的那些助手们。阿贝丁和班德都是从白宫实习生起步的，他们成长的岁月里一直都为克林顿夫妇工作，最终也为他们的雇主带来了尴尬的新闻。
Before the email news broke Friday, Clinton’s campaign was answering questions about Band’s private consulting firm, Teneo, and its ties to the Clinton Foundation. “I think voters, first of all, understand that Hillary Clinton is the candidate that’s on the ballot, not Doug Band,” her campaign manager, Robby Mook, told reporters Friday.
在周五的电子邮件新闻发生之前，克林顿的选举团队就班德的个人咨询公司Teneo以及它与克林顿基金会之间的关系回答质疑。“首先，我认为选民们都明白，参加竞选的候选人是希拉里·克林顿，而不是道格·班德，”克林顿的竞选经理罗比·莫克(Robby Mook)周五对记者们说。
It remained to be seen whether he would soon need to say the same of Abedin.
他会不会很快把同样的话用在阿贝丁身上，目前尚不分明。