VINEYARD HAVEN, Mass. — Hillary Rodham Clinton blew into this tiny island town like a fast-moving hurricane on Wednesday, creating a commotion at the Bunch of Grapes bookstore, where hundreds of admirers waited for hours in the rain for a glimpse of the woman who they hope will be the next president.
马萨诸塞州玛莎葡萄园岛——本周三，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)像快速移动的飓风一样刮到了这个岛屿小镇上，在“葡萄串串”(Bunch of Grapes)书店引起了一阵骚动；数百名崇拜者已经冒雨在那里等了几个小时，就为看看这个他们希望成为下任总统的女性。
“When I heard Hillary was going to be here, I literally started crying,” said Lily Richards, a 17-year-old high school senior from Greenfield, Mass., whose high school thesis paper argued for Mrs. Clinton’s election as president. “Oh my God, I have to go.”
“当我听说希拉里打算来这儿时，我真的哭了出来，”17岁的莉莉·理查兹(Lily Richards)说；她来自马萨诸塞州格林菲尔德，是一名高三学生，她的高中毕业论文主题就是支持克林顿竞选美国总统。“噢，我的上帝，我一定得去。”
Up island from the hubbub, President Obama is vacationing at a sprawling shingled home, still setting off friendly waves from locals when his motorcade glides by. But after six years, energy here and elsewhere appears to be shifting from Mr. Obama toward Mrs. Clinton, as the former secretary of state moves away from the president’s orbit toward her own political future, generating tensions that are spilling out in unusual ways.
在这场喧嚣的北面，奥巴马总统正在这座岛上一个木瓦结构的大型宅邸度假；他的车队经过时，仍然会引来当地人的友好招手。但在六年之后，这里以及其他地方的注意力正在从奥巴马转向克林顿；眼下这位前国务卿正与总统分道扬镳，奔向自己的政治前途，从而产生了一些紧张气氛，并以不同寻常的方式表现出来。
Mr. Obama is fast becoming the past, not the future, for donors, activists and Democratic strategists. Party leaders are increasingly turning toward Mrs. Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, as Democrats face difficult races this fall in states where the president is especially unpopular, and her aides are making plain that she has no intention of running for “Obama’s third term.”
对于捐助者、活动人士和民主党策略师来说，奥巴马正迅速成为过去，而不是未来。党派领导者正在越来越多地把目光投向希拉里和她的丈夫前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。今年秋天，在奥巴马总统特别不受欢迎的一些州，民主党正面临着一些艰难的比拼，而克林顿的助手们正在清楚地表明，她无意成为“奥巴马的第三个任期”。
The moment is an awkward one, and some moves by Mrs. Clinton are reopening wounds from the 2008 primary contest. Her blunt public criticism of the president’s foreign policy in The Atlantic this week touched off frustration among Mr. Obama’s advisers and supporters, especially her suggestion that under Mr. Obama, the United States lacked an “organizing principle” in its approach to international relations. “ ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ is not an organizing principle,” Mrs. Clinton said.
当下的情况有些尴尬，克林顿的一些做法让2008年预选时的一些伤口再度裂开。本周她在《大西洋》(The Atlantic)月刊上直言不讳地公开批评总统的外交政策，在奥巴马的顾问和支持者中引发了不满，尤其是她声称在奥巴马主政期间，美国在处理国际关系的时候缺乏“组织原则”。“‘不做傻事’不是一个组织原则，”克林顿说。
Christine Pelosi, a longtime Democratic activist and daughter of the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, said her phone and email “just exploded” after Mrs. Clinton’s remarks.
克里斯汀·佩洛西(Christine Pelosi)是众议院少数党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)的女儿，也是一位资深民主党活动家，她说克林顿发表这番言论后，她的电话和电子邮件就“炸锅了”。
“Now is not the time to second guess the commander in chief, particularly when you’re a former member of his cabinet and national security team,” Ms. Pelosi said.
“现在还不是扮演事后诸葛亮，批评三军统帅的时候，特别是你还曾经在他的内阁以及国家安全团队里待过，”佩洛西说。
The sharpest response to the interview came from David Axelrod, who helped Mr. Obama crush Mrs. Clinton in the primary six years ago in part by calling attention to her support for the Iraq war. “Just to clarify: ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ means stuff like occupying Iraq in the first place, which was a tragically bad decision,” Mr. Axelrod wrote on Twitter on Tuesday.
对于这个采访，最尖锐的回应来自戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)，在六年前的预选中，他曾通过把人们的注意力吸引到克林顿对伊拉克战争的支持上，帮助奥巴马彻底击败了她。“我只想澄清一件事：‘不做傻事’指的是最初占领伊拉克那样的事情，那就是一个可悲的错误，”阿克塞尔罗德本周二在Twitter上写道。
Mrs. Clinton then issued an unusual public statement, saying that she had called the president to reassure him that she had not intended to attack him, and that she looked forward to “hugging it out” with him at a party they both attended at Vernon E. Jordan Jr.’s Martha’s Vineyard home on Wednesday night.
克林顿随后发表了一份不同寻常的公开声明，说她打电话给奥巴马，向他保证，她无意攻击他，她希望与他在周三晚上“拥抱一下，化解此事”，两人当晚都会参加在玛莎葡萄园岛小弗农·E·乔丹(Vernon E. Jordan Jr.)宅邸里举办的派对。
When Mrs. Clinton arrived Wednesday to begin signing copies of her latest book, “Hard Choices,” on Wednesday, she paused to respond to reporters who called out questions about her relationship with Mr. Obama. She answered without missing a beat, saying: “We have disagreements, as any partners and friends — as we are — might very well have. But I’m proud that I served with him and for him.”
当克林顿周三抵达这座岛屿，开始签售她的新书《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)时，记者问起她与奥巴马的关系，她停了一下，回答说：“我们存在分歧，任何合作伙伴和朋友之间都很有可能存在分歧，我们也是如此。不过我很自豪自己曾经为他效力，与他共事。”
Then she turned her focus to her waiting fans, greeting them with a big smile, a “thanks for being here” or “hello, sir, how are you?” and a quick flick of the pen as she signed their books. Owners of the bookstore said they had sold more than 1,000 books in advance of the event.
然后，她把注意力集中在了等候的粉丝身上，满面笑容地和他们打招呼，嘴里说着“谢谢你能来”，或“哈喽，先生，你好吗？”这样话，同时轻快地挥笔，在他们的书上签名。书店老板表示，他们在签名会之前销售了1000多本《艰难抉择》。
“Awesome. I just talked to the 45th president!” said Cynthia Woolbright, 63, who pumped her fist in the air after the former first lady signed her copy.
“真棒。我刚刚和第45届总统讲过话了！”63岁的辛西娅·沃布赖特(Cynthia Woolbright)说，她挥了挥拳头，克林顿刚在她的书上签了名。
Some Obama administration officials complain privately that Mrs. Clinton is already making the president’s job more difficult. As Mr. Obama navigates multiple foreign crises abroad, they say, he finds few vocal supporters in the Democratic foreign policy establishment because would-be diplomats and advisers have their eye on jobs in a future Clinton administration and do not want to be seen as taking sides in a dispute between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton.
奥巴马政府的一些官员私下抱怨说，克林顿已经让奥巴马的工作变得越发难以开展。他们说，奥巴马正在处理多起境外危机，结果发现民主党外交政策圈子里没有几个人对他表示明确支持，因为那些想成为外交官和顾问的人，已经把目光集中在了未来的克林顿政府身上，不希望给人留下在奥巴马和克林顿的分歧中站队的印象。
Even before Mrs. Clinton’s critique of Mr. Obama, some of the president’s original loyalists were questioning the wisdom of her high-profile book tour, which has been likened to a trial run for a national campaign.
即便在克林顿批评奥巴马之前，奥巴马的嫡系拥护者中就有人质疑她高调售书活动的意图，说这就像是全国大选的一个试演。
“I don’t even understand why they’re doing this,” Mr. Axelrod said in an interview earlier this summer. “If I were her, I would be so sparing. With this, she makes herself a candidate and a target. Why she’d want to be out there so early is beyond me.”
“我真不明白他们为什么这样做，”阿克塞尔罗德今年夏天早些时候在一次采访中说。“如果我是她，我会非常低调。她这样做，俨然是个候选人的样子，也让自己成了一个靶子。为什么她这么早就出去造势，这点我无法理解。”
Officially, Mr. Obama’s aides dismiss the notion that there is strain between the president and Mrs. Clinton and insist that their staffs have worked hard to develop trust. And they say it is natural for Mrs. Clinton to stake out her own positions.
在正式场合，奥巴马的助手否认总统和克林顿关系紧张的说法，坚称双方的幕僚在努力营造互信。他们说，克林顿要表明自己的立场是很正常的事。
“It would be weird if she had no differences with us,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser, said shortly after “Hard Choices” was published. “She has every right to say where there are some differences, even as she’s made clear they agree on most issues.”
“和我们没有分歧那才怪了呢，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)在《艰难抉择》出版后不久说。“她完全有权说出有异议的地方，尽管她已经明确表示在大多数问题上双方是有共识的。”
Still, the role reversal between Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton is a striking reminder that nothing in politics is fixed. Mr. Obama eclipsed the Clintons in 2008 as the fresh, new face of the Democratic Party, portraying them as baby boomer relics. Now, Mr. Obama is in danger of becoming a lame duck, and his party has once again started thinking about tomorrow — with the Clintons in mind.
但奥巴马和克林顿的角色反转仍是一次有力的提醒，告诉我们政治中没有什么一成不变。2008年，作为民主党新鲜面孔的奥巴马令克林顿夫妇黯然无光，他把他们描绘成了婴儿潮一代的老古董。如今奥巴马可能要沦为跛脚鸭，他的政党再一次开始思考明天，而克林顿夫妇正是他们的思考对象。
Democratic strategists say the difference in standing will be especially striking this fall. The party is being overrun with candidates’ requests for the Clintons to campaign for them, while almost no candidate wishes to appear with Mr. Obama, who has become the focal point for much of the conservative anger this cycle.
民主党的策略师们说，这种差异在今秋会格外鲜明。党内候选人争相要求克林顿夫妇助选，同时几乎没有候选人希望和奥巴马站在一起，因为他已经是本选举周期内保守派怒火的主要目标。
Others suggested that Mrs. Clinton’s criticism of the president’s foreign policy could actually help some Democratic candidates in places where Mr. Obama is very unpopular. And her aides clearly believe it will help her. In interviews this week, three former aides to Mrs. Clinton reinforced a simple message: If she runs, it will not be in pursuit of a third Obama term.
还有一些人指出，克林顿对总统的外交政策的批评，可能在一些不太喜欢奥巴马的地方帮到民主党候选人。她的助手显然认为这将对她有所裨益。在本周的采访中，三名克林顿的前助手都在重复一条简单的信息：一旦参选，她可不是去争取奥巴马第三任期的。