The heavyset 60-year-old man who walked with a cane seemed an unlikely speaker at the glamorous launch party for a cosmetics company held in Santa Monica, Calif., in March.
这个身材敦实、靠拐杖走路的60岁男人，似乎不太可能是今年3月一家化妆品公司在加州圣莫尼卡举办的豪华开业派对上的演讲嘉宾。
But Tony Rodham appeared at ease among the special guests and well-heeled investors, offering them encouragement as well as an invitation.
然而，托尼·罗德姆(Tony Rodham)在特邀嘉宾和阔气的投资者当中显得很自在。他鼓励了这些人，也主动向他们发出邀约。
“If there’s anything I can ever do for any of you, let me know,” Mr. Rodham said. “I’ll be more than happy to do it.”
“如果有任何事情我可以为大家效劳的，只管告诉我，”罗德姆说，“我非常乐意帮忙。”
A promotional video of the party that the cosmetics company later released identified the speaker as “the youngest brother of former first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton,” a relationship that has been Mr. Rodham’s calling card since the days of the Clinton White House.
这家化妆品公司后来推出的一段派对宣传片指出，这位演讲嘉宾是“前第一夫人希拉里·罗姆·克林顿最小的弟弟”，这层关系自克林顿家族入住白宫以来一直是罗德姆的名片。
On and off for two decades, the affable Mr. Rodham has tried to use his connections with his sister and his brother-in-law, former President Bill Clinton, to further a business career that has seen more failures than successes. The connections to the Clintons have given Mr. Rodham, a self-described “facilitator,” a unique appeal and a range of opportunities, like addressing Chinese investor conferences and joining an advisory board of a company seeking permission to mine for gold in Haiti.
过去20年里，待人和气的罗德姆先生时不时地利用他与姐姐和姐夫前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的关系，来推进自己失败多过成功的商业生涯。与克林顿夫妇的关系让罗德姆拥有了独特的吸引力和大量机会，例如，他曾多次在中国的投资者会议上演讲，还加入了一个想要获准在海地开采金矿的公司的顾问委员会。而他称自己是一个“协调人”。
But his business dealings have often invited public scrutiny and uncomfortable questions for the Clintons as Mr. Rodham has cycled through a variety of ventures, leveraging his ties to them and sometimes directly seeking their help.
不过，他的一些商业活动经常为克林顿夫妇招致公众的审视目光，以及令人不快的质疑。或通过利用他与克林顿夫妇的关系，或直接寻求他们的帮助，罗德姆从事了各种各样的商业活动。
When Mr. Clinton worked as a co-chairman of Haiti’s earthquake recovery commission, Mr. Rodham and his partners sought a $22 million deal to rebuild homes in the country. In court proceedings three years ago in an unrelated lawsuit, Mr. Rodham explained how “a guy in Haiti” had “donated” 10,000 acres of land to him and described how he had leaned on Mr. Clinton to get the rebuilding project funded amid bureaucratic delays.
在克林顿担任海地灾后重建委员会的联合主席时，罗德姆和同伴寻求达成一笔规模为2200万美元的在海地进行房屋重建的交易。三年前，在另一起不相关的法院诉讼中，罗德姆解释称，“在海地有个人”曾经向他“捐赠”1万英亩（约合4050公顷）土地，还描述了在面对繁琐的政府程序造成的延误时，他是怎样敦促克林顿为重建项目拿到投资的。
“I deal through the Clinton Foundation. That gets me in touch with the Haitian officials,” Mr. Rodham said, according to a transcript of his testimony. “I hound my brother-in-law, because it’s his fund that we’re going to get our money from. And he can’t do it until the Haitian government does it.
“我是通过克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)操作的。这让我可以接触到海地的官员，”罗德姆在证言文字记录中表示。“我催着我姐夫，因为我们的钱就来自他的基金会。而海地政府的程序没走完，他也没办法。”
“And he keeps telling me, ‘Oh, it’s going to happen tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow.’ Well, tomorrow hasn’t come yet.”
“他总是对我说，‘明天就可以了，明天，明天，明天。’可是这个明天一直也没来。”
Mr. Rodham’s Haiti project never did happen. The Clinton Foundation said in a statement that it was not aware of Mr. Rodham’s Haiti project and had no involvement in it. Mr. Clinton’s office said he had not been involved in any of Mr. Rodham’s pursuits in Haiti.
罗德姆在海地的项目没有做成。克林顿基金会在一份声明中表示，基金会不知道罗德姆在海地的项目，也并未参与其中。比尔·克林顿办公室说，他没有参与罗德姆在海地的任何项目。
But Mr. Rodham was able to prevail on the former president for help in other ways.
不过，罗德姆还是能说服这位前总统以其他方式帮助自己。
When Mr. Rodham was short on cash in 2010, Mr. Clinton helped get him a job for $72,000 a year raising investments in GreenTech Automotive, an electric car company then owned by Terry McAuliffe, an old friend of Mr. Clinton’s and now the governor of Virginia.
2010年，罗德姆资金短缺，克林顿帮他在从事电动车业务的绿色科技汽车公司(GreenTech Automotive)找了一份工作，年薪7.2万美元，工作内容是募集投资。当时这家公司由特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)所有，他是克林顿的老朋友，目前是弗吉尼亚州州长。
“I was complaining to my brother-in-law I didn’t have any money. And he asked McAuliffe to give me a job,” Mr. Rodham said during the court proceedings, which were the result of a lawsuit over unpaid legal bills filed by his lawyer in a child support case.
“我当时跟姐夫抱怨没钱。然后他就让麦考利夫给了我一份工作，”罗德姆在法庭诉讼中说。当时，罗德姆的律师就一桩儿童抚养费用案的未付律师费起诉了他。
A brother down on his luck seeking help from more successful siblings is a familiar story, and presidents and their families have hardly been immune from that sometimes uncomfortable situation. In the case of the Clintons, Tony Rodham has not been the only source of embarrassment.
倒霉的手足向较为成功的兄弟姐妹寻求帮助的故事并不新鲜，总统和他的家人也无法幸免，需要时不时面临类似的窘境。对于克林顿夫妇来说，托尼·罗德姆不是唯一让他们陷入尴尬的亲人。
Mrs. Clinton’s other brother, Hugh Rodham, stumbled through an unsuccessful campaign for the Senate in Florida during Mr. Clinton’s first term. Roger Clinton, the former president’s brother, served a year in federal prison on a cocaine distribution charge. And all three were involved in lobbying Mr. Clinton for pardons for their associates as he left office, prompting a congressional inquiry.
克林顿夫人的另一个弟弟休·罗德姆(Hugh Rodham)曾在克林顿总统的第一个任期内竞选过代表佛罗里达州的联邦参议员，但期间问题迭出，最后未能成功。克林顿总统的弟弟罗杰·克林顿(Roger Clinton)曾因分销可卡因的罪名在联邦监狱中服刑一年。在克林顿卸任时，这三人都曾涉足替熟人游说寻求赦免的行为，导致国会对此事进行了调查。
“They’re all colorful,” Rahm Emanuel, a former Clinton aide who later became mayor of Chicago, said in an interview in 2001. “They’re all living large.”
“他们都是很有意思的人，”克林顿曾经的幕僚、后来成为芝加哥市长的拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)在2001年的一次采访中说。“都喜欢享受生活。”
As Mrs. Clinton began her campaign for the presidency, Hugh Rodham and Roger Clinton had faded from public view, but Tony Rodham has emerged as a controversial figure. A government investigation in March found that GreenTech — which sought green cards for its Chinese investors through an American government program — had received special treatment in the handling of its visa applications. The report described instances when Mr. McAuliffe and Mr. Rodham contacted an official from the Department of Homeland Security to complain about the pace of the visa process.
希拉里·克林顿开始总统竞选活动时，休·罗德姆和罗杰·克林顿已淡出公众视野，但托尼·罗德姆却逐渐成了争议性的人物。今年3月，政府的一项调查发现，绿色科技汽车公司通过一个美国政府项目为其中国投资者申请绿卡，在签证申请环节享受了特殊待遇。调查报告中列举了几个例子，表示麦考利夫和托尼·罗德姆曾联系国土安全部的一名官员，抱怨签证申请的速度。
Mr. Rodham’s unsuccessful pursuit of housing contracts in Haiti, which has not previously been disclosed, raised new questions.
罗德姆失败的海地房屋重建交易此前未被披露，如今激起了外界新的质疑。
As Mrs. Clinton campaigns, she speaks fondly of her brothers. At a stop in Iowa, she recalled them working together at her father’s drapery business. Her official campaign biography prominently mentions them.
在竞选活动上，克林顿夫人说起她的两个弟弟时，充满了手足之情。在爱荷华州参与活动时，她回忆起两人一起经营父亲的纺织品生意。她为竞选出版的官方自传中也对他们进行了着重描写。
“She loves her family more than anything,” said Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton. “Her brothers have always been there for her, and she will always be there for them. Each, though, have their own lives, their own jobs, their own ups and downs.”
“家人是她的挚爱，”希拉里·克林顿的发言人尼克·梅里尔(Nick Merrill)说。“她的两个弟弟一直都支持着她，她也一直在支持他们。不过，他们各有不同的生活和工作、在经历各自的起起伏伏。”
As the youngest of three children, Tony Rodham has lived in the shadow of his sister. He never finished college, and he worked at a variety of jobs — as a prison guard, private detective and at the Democratic National Committee — until after the Clintons were in the White House, when he became a consultant and deal broker. He was once married to Nicole Boxer, the daughter of Senator Barbara Boxer of California.
作为三个孩子中最年幼的一个，托尼·罗德姆一直生活在姐姐的影子中。他大学没有毕业，从事过各种工作——监狱看守、私人侦探，以及民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)的岗位。直到克林顿夫妇入主白宫，他才成了咨询师和中间人。他的前任妻子是加利福尼亚州联邦参议员芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)的女儿妮科尔·博克瑟(Nicole Boxer)。
He lives with his second wife, Megan, and two young children in a large house on a hill in Vienna, Va., a suburb of Washington. He declined to speak to a reporter who came to the door one afternoon in April, and he did not respond to other messages seeking comment for this story. But his wife said the family was excited about Mrs. Clinton’s campaign for president. “The kids love their Aunt Hillary,” she said. “We are supportive, and we are excited.”
他与现任妻子梅根(Megan)及两个年幼的孩子住在华盛顿郊区，那栋大房子位于弗吉尼亚州维也纳的一座山上。今年4月的一个下午，记者上门采访，遭到了他的拒绝。通过其他途径发送的多次置评请求也未能得到他的回应。但他的妻子表示，克林顿夫人参选总统让他们全家非常兴奋。“孩子们很喜欢他们的希拉里姑妈，”她说。“我们很支持，也很激动。”
Mr. Rodham described his dire financial situation during the court proceedings in 2012. As a result of a series of failed business deals — including some in oil and gas, water, housing, tutoring, and pharmaceuticals — he said he had not made a mortgage payment in 10 months and was fighting home foreclosure.
罗德姆在2012年的法庭诉讼中谈到了自己糟糕的财务状况。因为生意上一连串的失败——涉及的领域包括油气、水资源、住房、教学辅导和制药等——他表示自己已经连着10个月没法偿还抵押贷款，正尽量让房子别被银行没收。
The Clintons, he said, had been generous, even paying for his son’s schooling, but they were not going to give him more money. “Hillary and Bill are done,” he said. “I mean, look at what they’ve done for me. They’ve given me money all the time.”
他说，克林顿夫妇很慷慨，甚至给他的儿子支付学费，但是他们不会再给他更多的金钱资助。“希拉里和比尔不愿意再帮我了”，罗德姆说。“我的意思是，看看他们为我做过的事情。他们过去一直在给我钱。”
Mr. Clinton’s willingness to assist in getting him work with Mr. McAuliffe was helpful, Mr. Rodham said, but at $6,000 a month, it was not enough. “It’s kind of like the job he got me a long time ago when I worked in the prison,” he said.
罗德姆表示，虽然比尔·克林顿帮自己在麦考利夫的公司找到了一份工作，可是6000美元的月薪根本不够花。“这份工作和很久之前他帮我找的那份在监狱的工作差不多”，罗德姆说。
Even more important, according to Mr. Rodham, was what he said was going to be Mr. Clinton’s help on his Haiti rebuilding project. That project came about when Sheldon Drobny, an old friend, contacted Mr. Rodham about making a connection for a Chicago-area contractor, who wanted to become involved in building houses in Haiti.
更重要的是，按照罗德姆的说法，他希望在自己搞的海地重建项目上得到比尔·克林顿的帮助。这个重建项目是因为老朋友谢尔顿·德罗布尼(Sheldon Drobny)联系了罗德姆，想要为芝加哥地区的一个承包商牵线搭桥。这个承包商希望参与海地的房屋重建工作。
“We were trying to help. Period,” Mr. Drobny, the co-founder of Air America Radio, the former liberal talk network, said in a phone interview, calling the effort “humanitarian.”
德罗布尼联合创办了当年的美国广播电台(Air America Radio)，其中主打自由派谈话类节目。在接受电话访问时，他表示“我们是想帮忙，仅此而已”，并且称自己的努力属“人道”性质。
Mr. Drobny said he connected with Mr. Rodham because of what he believed were his ties to the Clinton Foundation, which was playing a central role in the rebuilding efforts. Ultimately, he said, nothing happened “because the Haiti government was not cooperative.”
德罗布尼的说法是，之所以会联系罗德姆，是因为自己认为他同克林顿基金会有关系。该基金会在海地重建活动中起着关键作用。不过，“因为海地政府不是很合作”，最后什么都没发生。
The Clinton Foundation said in its statement that aside from supporting a housing exposition in Haiti, it has not been directly involved with any housing projects. The foundation also said that Mr. Rodham’s project had not been among the more than 300 submitted for consideration at the expo.
克林顿基金会在其声明中表示，除了支持一场在海地举办的住宅展览会，它并没有直接参与到任何的住宅项目中。此外，基金会还指出，罗德姆的项目并不在提交给展会考虑的300多个项目之列。
Mr. Rodham projected that he could make $1 million on the Haiti deal if it had come to pass — enough money, he said in his court testimony, to take his family to Disney World and cover his debts, including his legal bills and his long overdue federal taxes.
罗德姆预测，如果海地的生意能做成的话，自己能从中赚取100万美元。他在法庭作证时表示，这笔钱将足够用来带家人到迪斯尼世界游玩，偿还包括法务费和拖欠良久的联邦税费在内的债务。
In the case of the legal bills, Mr. Rodham eventually settled with his former lawyer, Gwendolyn Jo M. Carlberg. Ms. Carlberg said in a phone interview that, despite her lawsuit, she did not have a negative view of Mr. Rodham. “I found a lot of good in Tony,” she said.
关于法务费的问题，罗德姆最终和他以前的律师格温德琳·乔·M·卡尔伯格(Gwendolyn Jo M Carlberg)达成了和解。卡尔伯格在电话访问中表示，虽然她和罗德姆之间有过诉讼纠纷，但是罗德姆给自己的印象并不差。“我在托尼身上发现了很多优点，”她说。
He is still sought after for deals and personal appearances.
在开拓商机和个人亮相的事情上，他仍然很受欢迎。