For the 19 months since Hillary Rodham Clinton departed as President Obama’s secretary of state, she and Mr. Obama, and their respective aides, have labored to preserve a veneer of unity over how they worked together and how they view the world.
19个月以前，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)卸任奥巴马政府国务卿一职。自那以后，她和奥巴马本人，以及各自的幕僚，均努力维持一种他们在世界观上和当年的工作中团结一致的表象。
On Sunday, that veneer shattered — the victim of Mrs. Clinton’s remarkably blunt interview with the Atlantic correspondent, Jeffrey Goldberg, in which she criticized not just Mr. Obama’s refusal to aid the rebels in Syria but his shorthand description of his entire foreign policy.
然而在刚刚过去的周日，这一表象不复存在：克林顿接受《大西洋》月刊(Atlantic)记者杰弗里·戈德堡(Jeffrey Goldberg)的采访，直抒胸臆，不仅批评奥巴马不愿援助叙利亚反对派，还直指责他对自己的整体外交政策进行的简洁概括。
“Great nations need organizing principles, and ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ is not an organizing principle,” Mrs. Clinton said, referring to the line that Mr. Obama has used with aides and reporters to describe his reluctance to inject the United States into messy foreign conflicts.
“伟大的国家需要组织原则，但‘不做傻事’并不是什么组织原则，”克林顿说。“不做傻事”是奥巴马在幕僚和记者面前用来描述自己不愿让美国干预棘手的外国冲突时的说辞。
Mrs. Clinton said she assumed the line was more a “political message” for a war-weary American public than his actual worldview — an interpretation that makes her words even more stinging, since “don’t do stupid stuff” was in fact the animating principle for the new foreign policy blueprint that Mr. Obama laid out at West Point in May.
克林顿表示，她认为，这句话与其说是奥巴马的真实世界观，倒不如说是传达给厌倦战争的美国民众的“政治信息”。这一表述让她的话显得更为刺耳，因为“不做傻事”的确就是对奥巴马今年5月在西点军校演讲时给出的外交政策新蓝图原则框架的生动描述。
That Mrs. Clinton is more hawkish than Mr. Obama is no surprise to anyone who watched a Democratic primary debate in 2008. Her policy differences with the president are well-documented: She favored supplying arms to moderate Syrian rebels, leaving behind a larger residual force in Iraq, and waiting longer before pulling American support for Egypt’s former President Hosni Mubarak during the historic protests in Cairo.
只要看过2008年的民主党初选辩论，就不会惊讶于克林顿比奥巴马更鹰派。她与总统的政策分歧有着详尽的记录：她倾向于给温和的叙利亚反对派提供武器、在伊拉克留下更大规模的驻军，以及在开罗的历史性抗议期间，等待更长的时间再放弃对埃及前总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的支持。
What has changed is her readiness to surface those differences and put them in the context of a different worldview. Even her memoir, “Hard Choices,” which she was promoting in her interview with Mr. Goldberg, soft-pedaled the gaps and painted a portrait of her and Mr. Obama in lock step in rebuilding America’s tattered image abroad.
真正改变的是克林顿的态度：她愿意让这些分歧浮出水面，并将其置于世界观差异的语境下。此次克林顿接受戈德堡采访，是为了推销她的回忆录《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)。但就连在这本书里，也对两人的差别进行了低调处理，描绘出一副并肩重建美国受损的海外声誉的和谐景象。
Now, though, Mrs. Clinton is suggesting that she and the president hold fundamentally different views of American power: his view cautious, inward-looking, suffused with a sense of limits; hers muscular, optimistic, unabashedly old-fashioned.
然而现在，克林顿暗示，她和奥巴马对美国力量的看法迥然不同：奥巴马的观点谨慎、关注国内，弥漫着一种受到限制的感觉；她的观点则强有力、乐观，毫不掩饰其老派色彩。
“You know, when you’re down on yourself, and when you are hunkering down and pulling back, you’re not going to make any better decisions than when you were aggressively, belligerently putting yourself forward,” Mrs. Clinton said to Mr. Goldberg. “One issue is that we don’t even tell our own story very well these days.”
“你知道，当你妄自菲薄、画地自限的时候，做出的决定不会比强势出击、斗志昂扬的时候更好，”克林顿告诉戈德堡。“我们如今连自己的故事都没法讲好了，这是个问题。”
Much of the interview’s resonance is in its timing, coming two days after Mr. Obama authorized airstrikes against Sunni militants in Iraq. Mrs. Clinton’s aides say this was a coincidence; the session was scheduled long before anyone knew about military action.
此次采访的两天前，奥巴马授权空袭伊拉克的逊尼派武装。其发表时机让访谈引发了不少共鸣。克林顿的幕僚宣称此事纯属巧合，远在任何人知晓军事行动内情之前就定下了采访时间。
Still, when Mrs. Clinton says “the failure to help build up a credible fighting force” against President Bashar al-Assad in Syria “left a big vacuum, which the jihadists have now filled,” it suggests Mr. Obama’s refusal to arm the rebels might end up being a singular misjudgment.
不过，克林顿表示，美国“未能协助打造一支”对抗叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的“可靠作战力量”，从而“留下了巨大的真空，让圣战分子如今得以填补。”言外之意，奥巴马拒绝武装反对派的决定或许会被证明是巨大的误判。
At the time of the Obama administration’s internal debate over that decision, several officials said, Mrs. Clinton’s advocacy was far less thunderous: the United States had tried every diplomatic channel with Syria, she said, and nothing else had worked, so why not try funneling weapons to the moderate rebels.
数名官员称，当初奥巴马政府对这一决定进行内部讨论的时候，克林顿的主张远没有这么理直气壮：她当时的说法是，美国穷尽了接触叙利亚的外交渠道，别的办法也都行不通，那么干嘛不试试给温和的反对派输送武器呢？
As Mrs. Clinton stakes out her own foreign policy positions in advance of a possible campaign for the White House, there are likely to be other cases where her statements do not seem entirely in sync with her record as secretary of state.
克林顿在可能竞选总统之前表明了自己的外交政策立场，但她的声明与担任国务卿时的立场看起来并不完全一致，而今后可能还会出现其他类似的情况。
At the end of her tenure, for example, Mrs. Clinton wrote a memo to Mr. Obama recommending that the United States lift its half-century-old trade embargo against Cuba. It was not a position that she seriously advocated while at the State Department, officials said.
例如，在任期结束时，克林顿为奥巴马写了一份备忘录，建议美国结束半个世纪以来对古巴的贸易禁运。官员们表示，克林顿担任国务卿时并没有极力主张这一立场。
Mrs. Clinton also dashed off an exit memo warning about President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, which White House aides said was redundant, since his behavior was already clear by then. At the beginning of the administration, she was an enthusiastic proponent of the administration’s attempt to reset relations with Russia.
克林顿还匆忙完成了一份离职备忘录，就俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)提出警告。白宫幕僚称，这份备忘录纯属多余，因为那时候，普京的行为已经非常明显。在奥巴马政府执政初期，她大力支持与俄罗斯重建关系的举措。
In the interview with The Atlantic, Mrs. Clinton said she had always been in the camp of those who believed that Iran had no right to enrich uranium. Yet in December 2010, she was one of the first American officials to acknowledge publicly, in an interview with the BBC, that Iran could emerge from nuclear negotiations with the right to enrich.
克林顿在接受《大西洋》月刊的采访时表示，她一直认为伊朗无权进行铀浓缩。但在2010年12月，她接受了BBC的采访，成为首批公开确认伊朗或许可以通过核谈判获得铀浓缩权的美国官员之一。
Mrs. Clinton is not the only former cabinet member to part company with Mr. Obama on foreign policy. Robert M. Gates, the former defense secretary, wrote a memoir laced with scathing criticism of the administration’s approach to Afghanistan and other crises.
克林顿并不是唯一与奥巴马在外交政策上存在分歧的前内阁成员。前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在回忆录中对奥巴马政府处理阿富汗等危机的手法提出猛烈批评。
In a New York Times article in April about Mrs. Clinton, Leon E. Panetta, the former defense secretary and C.I.A. director, said, “The president has made some tough decisions. But it’s been a mixed record, and the concern is, the president defining what America’s role in the world is in the 21st century hasn’t happened.”
在今年4月《纽约时报》一篇有关克林顿的文章中，前国防部长、中央情报局(CIA)局长利昂·E·帕内塔(Leon E. Panetta)称，“总统做出了一些艰难的决定。但他的记录好坏参半。问题是，确立美国在21世纪地位的总统尚未出现。”
But because of their long history and Mrs. Clinton’s political future, advisers to her and Mr. Obama have worked especially hard to head off any discord. Her staff gave parts of her memoir to Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, for vetting before publication.
不过，考虑到两人长久的关系，以及克林顿的政治前程，克林顿和奥巴马的团队均竭力消弭分歧。克林顿的幕僚将回忆录的部分内容交给了副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)，以便在发表前进行仔细检查。
And interlocking staffs has been a big factor in that effort. Jake Sullivan, Mrs. Clinton’s top policy adviser at the State Department, went to work as national security adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a post that allowed him to convey the White House’s sensitivities to her aides.
互派幕僚是这项努力中的一个重要因素。克林顿在国务院的首席政策顾问杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)后来成为副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的国家安全顾问。这一职位使他能够向克林顿的幕僚传达白宫的敏感情绪。
Mrs. Clinton hired Tommy Vietor, a longtime Obama aide who was the spokesman for the National Security Council, to help with the rollout of her book. Mrs. Clinton’s aides worried that some in the news media might use the book to try to drive a wedge between her and the president; Mr. Vietor’s job was to push back on that effort.
克林顿则聘请了奥巴马长期以来的幕僚、国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的前发言人汤米·菲托尔(Tommy Vietor)帮她出书。克林顿的团队担心，一些媒体可能会利用该书破坏克林顿与奥巴马的关系，而菲托尔的工作就是阻止这种情况的出现。