The rollout of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s new book, “Hard Choices,” as a prelude to a possible 2016 run for the White House, has had all the subtlety of a military operation ramping up to full speed: the leak of the Benghazi chapter to Politico late last month (presumably to get talk about that hot-button topic out of the way early), the cover story in the latest issue of People magazine, the wall-to-wall lineup of television interviews this week, a grueling cross-country book tour.
作为希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)可能参与2016年总统竞选的前奏，其新作《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)的发布过程如同一次精心策划、逐步推进的军事行动：上个月末，有关班加西事件的章节被“政治人”(Politico)提前泄露（大概是为了尽早结束关于这个热点问题的相关讨论）；接下来是登上最新一期《人物》杂志(People)的封面；本周，电视上将轮番播放相关的访谈；然后是全国范围的马不停蹄的新书推介活动。
The book itself, however, turns out to be a subtle, finely calibrated work that provides a portrait of the former secretary of state and former first lady as a heavy-duty policy wonk. Compared with her 2003 memoir, “Living History” — which tended to lapse into glib, stump-speechlike pronouncements and reactive efforts to blame assorted enemies for her and her husband’s travails — “Hard Choices” is a statesmanlike document intended to attest to Mrs. Clinton’s wide-ranging experience on national security and on foreign policy. There is little news in the book. And unlike former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates’s rawly candid memoir “Duty,” this volume is very much the work of someone who is keeping all her political options open — and who would like to be known not only for mastering the art of diplomacy, but also for having the policy chops to become chooser-in-chief.
这本书本身则是一本精心构思、微妙定位的作品，把这位前国务卿和前第一夫人，以举足轻重的政策专家的形象呈现了出来。与其2003年的回忆录《亲历历史》(Living History)——该书总是沦为政治演说似的巧舌如簧的声明，或是大力回击各种对手对她和丈夫的辛勤工作的指责——相比，《艰难抉择》就像一位政治家撰写的大作，意在证明她在国家安全和外交政策方面的广泛经验。书中几乎没有什么新信息。与前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)极为直白的回忆录《职责》(Duty)不同，从这本书来看，克林顿保留了所有政治选项的可能性——并且希望外界知道，自己不仅熟谙外交的艺术，更拥有成为“首席决策官”的政治韬略。
“Hard Choices,” like Mrs. Clinton’s tenure at the State Department, does not evince a grand, overarching foreign policy vision, as Henry A. Kissinger’s 1994 book “Diplomacy” did. Rather, Mrs. Clinton displays a pragmatic, case-by-case modus operandi. Some critics have argued that she played it safe as secretary of state, that she had no marquee achievements like a Middle East peace accord. And her new book (written with an assist from what she calls her “book team”) suggests that Mrs. Clinton’s main legacy lies in reorienting American foreign policy in a globalized, tech-savvy 21st century, and in helping restore the country’s image abroad in the wake of the Iraq war and the unilateralism of President George W. Bush’s administration.
如同克林顿在国务院的任期一样，《艰难抉择》并没有提出一个包罗万象的宏大外交政策愿景——这曾是亨利·A·基辛格(Henry A. Kissinger)在其1994年的著作《大外交》(Diplomacy)中的做法。相反，克林顿采用了一种罗列事实的务实手法。一些评论人士认为，她在国务卿任内颇为保守，没有像达成中东和平协议那样的丰功伟绩。而这本新书（写作过程中得到了被她称为“书籍团队”的协助）展示出，克林顿的主要政治遗产在于，在全球化、科技发达的21世纪，重新设定了美国外交政策的方向，以及在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的伊拉克战争和单边主义之后，帮助恢复了美国的海外形象。
One of the few things this book shares with “Living History” is its emphasis on Mrs. Clinton as someone capable of growth and change: an individual who says she learns from past mistakes like her 2002 vote to authorize military action in Iraq. (She “got it wrong,” she writes of that vote. “Plain and simple.”) “Hard Choices” seems meant to serve several purposes at once: to document Mrs. Clinton’s tenure as secretary of state; to put her dysfunctional 2008 presidential campaign in the rearview mirror; to supplant memories of her tumultuous days as first lady (Whitewater, Monica Lewinsky) with images of her negotiating with leaders on the world stage; and to lift her above the partisan mudslinging of Washington.
这本书和《亲历历史》的少数共同点包括，两者都强调克林顿是一个善于成长和改变的人：她在书中表示，自己从过去的错误中吸取了教训，比如2002年对授权在伊拉克采取军事行动的提案投赞成票的做法。（她“做错了”，写到那次投票时，她说。“简单明了。”）《艰难抉择》似乎意在同时达到几个目的：回顾克林顿作为国务卿的任期；反思2008年失败的总统竞选；覆盖她作为第一夫人那段混乱时期的记忆（“白水事件”、莱温斯基）；以及助其超脱华盛顿的党派对立、相互诋毁。
The only chapter in which Mrs. Clinton sounds defensive or defiant is the one on the 2012 attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi, Libya — the subject of continuing investigations by House Republicans, bent on asserting that President Obama and Mrs. Clinton covered up what they knew about the causes of the attack. “I will not be a part of a political slugfest on the backs of dead Americans,” she writes.
克林顿只在一个章节中呈现出自我辩护或不服气的意思。这一章讲到了2012年导致四名美国人在利比亚班加西死亡的那次袭击——众议院共和党人仍在对此进行调查，坚称奥巴马和克林顿隐瞒了他们了解的袭击缘由。她写道，“我不会参与拿死去的人做文章的政治斗争。”
Mrs. Clinton has always been a conscientious A-student, and “Hard Choices” is methodically organized by country (Russia, Iran, etc.), region (the Middle East, Asia, Latin America) and topic (the Arab Spring, climate change, human rights). Though she does not possess the genial explanatory gifts of her husband (showcased in his 2011 book about the economy, “Back to Work”), she provides the lay reader — and potential voter — with succinct and often shrewd appraisals of the complex web of political, economic and historical forces in play around the world, and the difficulties American leaders face in balancing strategic concerns with “core values.” The tone is calm and measured, with occasional humorous asides, like describing an offer by Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian leader, to take Bill Clinton along on a polar-bear tagging expedition.
克林顿一直都是一个勤奋的优等生，而《艰难抉择》的内容以国家（俄罗斯、伊朗等）、地区（中东、亚洲、拉丁美洲）和话题（阿拉伯之春、气候变化和人权）为主题，进行了清晰的安排。尽管她没有丈夫的那种娓娓道来的天赋（他在2011年出版的经济方面的著作《重返工作》[Back to Work]中多有展示），她还是为普通读者——以及潜在的支持者——简明扼要且不失巧妙地分析了世界舞台上错综复杂的政治、经济和历史因素，以及美国领导人在“核心价值”和战略关切之间寻求平衡时的各种困难。她的笔触平和而有节制，时不时穿插幽默之笔，比如叙述俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)邀请比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)参加追踪北极熊的考察活动。
More positive developments like the diplomatic and economic isolation of Iran are described in considerable detail, while more controversial subjects like drone warfare and the data collection programs of the National Security Agency get only cursory, talking-points treatment. Beltway readers will not learn much new here about matters like the Obama administration’s handling of the war in Afghanistan or its counterterrorism policies.
在书中，一些较为积极的事件得到了详尽的描述，比如针对伊朗的外交和经济孤立，而在无人机战争和国家安全局(National Security Agency)的数据搜集项目等更具争议性的话题上，则只是一笔带过。对于密切关注政界的读者而言，不会从书中得到多少关于奥巴马政府处理阿富汗战争或反恐政策等方面的新信息。
For readers who are less policy-oriented, there are personal tidbits strewn lightly throughout, like small chocolate Easter eggs. Mrs. Clinton tells us that she would fight jet lag by sometimes digging “the fingernails of one hand into the palm of the other”; that she kept the raid on Osama bin Laden’s hide-out secret from her husband (“They told me not to tell anyone, so I didn’t tell anyone”); that President Obama once called her aside before an international meeting for what she thought was a sensitive consultation, only to hear him whisper in her ear, “You’ve got something in your teeth.”
对那些对政策不怎么感兴趣的读者，书中也点缀了一些巧克力复活节彩蛋般的个人趣事。克林顿告诉读者，为了对付时差，她有时会用一只手的指甲去戳另一只手的手掌；她没有把美国突袭奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)秘密住所的计划告诉丈夫（“他们让我不要告诉任何人，所以我没有告诉任何人”）；在一次国际会议开始之前，奥巴马总统把她叫到一边，她以为要讨论什么敏感问题，结果奥巴马小声对她说，“你牙上有东西。”
Mrs. Clinton’s views are perceived as often more hawkish than Mr. Obama’s, and in these pages, she walks a delicate line between being his loyal lieutenant and articulating her own beliefs. She takes a hard line on Mr. Putin, writing that “hard men present hard choices” and “strength and resolve were the only language” that the Russian leader understood. Of her unsuccessful argument within the administration for arming and training moderate Syrian rebels, she writes: “No one likes to lose a debate, including me. But this was the President’s call and I respected his deliberations and decision.”
外界普遍认为，克林顿的观点往往比奥巴马更加强硬。在相关章节中，她在担任奥巴马的忠诚助手和阐述自己观点之间小心翼翼地保持着平衡。她对普京采取强硬路线，她写道，“难对付的人带来艰难的选择”，“力量和决心”是这名俄罗斯领导人唯一懂得的语言。关于她提出的为叙利亚温和反对派提供武器和训练的建议未被采纳一事，她写道：“没人愿意在辩论中失败，我也是。但这是总统的决定，我尊重他的考虑和决定。”
Addressing much-chronicled tensions between the State Department and White House advisers, Mrs. Clinton enumerates some of her differences with them in the book — including her counsel of caution to Mr. Obama in pressing President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to step aside in the face of mounting street protests in Cairo. She also writes that it was painful to see her old friend Richard Holbrooke, the veteran diplomat she had chosen to handle the Afghanistan-Pakistan portfolio, “marginalized and undercut” by younger White House aides who disliked his flamboyant, old-school style.
谈及国务院和白宫幕僚之间被广泛报道的紧张关系时，克林顿在书中列举了她和他们的一些分歧——包括在开罗街头抗议增多之后，奥巴马向埃及总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)施压要求其下台时，但她建议奥巴马保持谨慎。她还写道，看到老友理查德·霍尔布鲁克(Richard Holbrooke)被年轻的白宫幕僚边缘化和排挤时，她感到很痛心。克林顿曾经任命这位资深外交官负责阿富汗和巴基斯坦事务，而这些白宫幕僚不喜欢他张扬的、老式的风格。
Of her own plans — to run or not to run for president — Mrs. Clinton writes that she has not decided yet. It’s “another hard choice” coming up.
关于自己的打算——是否竞选总统——克林顿写道，她尚未做出决定。这是她将面对的“又一个艰难抉择”。