GOFFSTOWN, N.H. — As the third Democratic debate faded to a five-minute commercial break, Hillary Clinton had exactly one minute and 45 seconds to walk out of the gymnasium at St. Anselm College to the ladies’ restroom and one minute and 45 seconds to return to her place on stage.
新罕布什尔州戈夫斯敦——随着民主党第三轮辩论进入五分钟的广告时间，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)正好有1分45秒的时间走出圣安塞姆学院(St. Anselm College)的体育馆去一趟女洗手间，然后再花1分45秒的时间回到辩论台。
Not a lot of wiggle room.
没有多少回旋余地。
With the men’s room significantly closer to the debate stage, Mrs. Clinton’s male opponents, Bernie Sanders and Martin O’Malley, made it back quicker and, well, it takes women longer, as Mrs. Clinton pointed out after returning slightly late from a commercial break during the first Democratic debate in Las Vegas.
由于男洗手间离辩论台近得多，克林顿的男性对手伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)和马丁·奥马利(Martin O'Malley)回来得快一些，而女性需要更长时间，克林顿在拉斯维加斯参加民主党第一轮辩论时指出了这一点，当时她在广告时段中回来得稍晚一些。
But on Saturday, the ABC News hosts, tied to the schedule of live TV, proceeded with their questioning about the economy with an empty podium awaiting Mrs. Clinton. “Sorry,” she deadpanned when she finally took her place.
但在周六，受直播安排限制的ABC新闻频道(ABC News)主持人在克林顿尚未回到辩论台的情况下，继续提出与经济相关的问题。克林顿返回辩论台时，面无表情地说道，“抱歉。”
Aides said they had been concerned during the walk through before the debate that the ladies room was such a schlep. The campaign’s vice chairwoman, Huma Abedin, had timed the distance to and from the podium and expressed concerns to organizers, but the gymnasium setting meant there were no closer options. She relayed to Mrs. Clinton that she would have to be speedy, said several aides involved in debate planning.
助手们表示，他们在辩论开始前的排练期间就担心，女洗手间是个难题。该竞选团队的女副主席手胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)计算了从洗手间到辩论台所需的时间，并对组织者表达了这一担忧，但体育馆的位置意味着没有更近的选择了。几名参与辩论筹划的助手表示，阿贝丁转告克林顿，她必须快一点。
In the end, the moment became one of the most talked about of what seemed an otherwise low-impact debate. The momentarily empty podium prompted jokes that Mrs. Clinton, so focused on defeating the Republicans, had, perhaps, decided to watch the primary debate from a Manchester bar, with a row of glistening ladies’ rooms nearby.
最终，在这场貌似影响较小的辩论中，这一时刻成为热议话题之一。克林顿的暂时缺席引来人们开玩笑称，集中精力准备与共和党人展开辩论的克林顿或许决定坐在曼彻斯特的酒吧里观看初选辩论，那附近可是会有一排亮闪闪的女洗手间。