Despite a month of sharpened attacks, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has failed to significantly dent Hillary Rodham Clinton’s lead in the Democratic presidential race, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey released on Thursday.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)本周四公布的民调显示，来自佛蒙特州的联邦参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)尽管这一个月来发起了尖锐攻击，但却并未明显削弱希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在民主党总统候选人提名的角逐中所领先的优势。
Mrs. Clinton has support from 52 percent of Democratic primary voters, while Mr. Sanders has backing from 33 percent, the poll found. In an early October CBS News poll, she led Mr. Sanders 56 percent to 32 percent.
本次调查发现，克林顿在民主党初选选民中获得了52%的支持率，桑德斯为33%。而CBS新闻频道10月初进行民调时，克林顿的支持率为56%，桑德斯为32%。
Mr. Sanders, whose overarching challenge is to transform his left-wing, lesser-known candidacy into a formidable national campaign with broad appeal, will face his greatest test yet on Saturday night at the second Democratic debate, which will be televised nationally from Des Moines. Mrs. Clinton will take the stage after a run of positive developments since their Oct. 13 debate, including strong reviews of her performance there, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s decision not to enter the race, and a steely, well-received face-off with congressional Republicans investigating the 2012 attack on the United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya.
桑德斯面临的最大挑战是，作为一个欠缺知名度的左翼候选人，建立起具有广泛吸引力、声势浩大的全国性竞选行动。本周六晚，在艾奥瓦州得梅因举行第二场民主党辩论将进行全国电视直播，这将是对桑德斯的一个极大考验。10月13日举行上次辩论以来，克林顿已经取得了一连串积极进展：她在辩论中的表现获得了如潮好评，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)决定不参加竞选，此外国会共和党人在调查2012年美国驻利比亚班加西领事馆遇袭事件时，她毫不退缩地对峙，也赢得了赞赏。
Mr. Sanders, in turn, has been drawing more contrasts with Mrs. Clinton’s positions on trade, Social Security, the death penalty and marijuana legalization since the October debate, but his attacks have not been memorably effective.
反观桑德斯，自10月的辩论以来，他在贸易、社会保障、死刑和大麻合法化等议题上与克林顿唱了更多反调，但他的攻击并没有产生可观的效果。
A third Democratic candidate, former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland, will also take part in Saturday’s debate, but he is trailing far behind his rivals. He received 5 percent of the vote in the Times/CBS News poll.
民主党的第三位候选人、前马里兰州州长马丁·奥马利(Martin O’Malley)也将参加本周六的辩论，但他远远落后于两位对手。时报和CBS的本次民调显示，他的支持率只有5%。
Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Malley do appear to have room to grow if they can find a way, the poll found: Half of Democratic primary voters said it was still too early to say for sure who they would support. Sanders supporters stand out as especially engaged with the presidential race. Fifty-four percent of them said they were paying a lot of attention to the campaign, compared with 38 percent of Mrs. Clinton’s backers.
如果能找到办法，桑德斯和奥马利的民意支持率似乎的确有提升的空间，因为民调发现：一半的民主党初选选民称，现在肯定地说支持谁还为时尚早。因为特别关注这场总统大选，桑德斯的支持者颇为突出。他们中54%的人表示给予了选举很大的关注，相比之下克林顿的支持者中只有38%的人是这种情况。
But Mrs. Clinton enjoys a firmer base of voters than Mr. Sanders, according to the poll. Fifty-four percent of her supporters said their minds were completely made up, while 58 percent of Mr. Sanders’s supporters said they had not made a final decision.
但调查显示，克林顿的支持者比桑德斯的支持者更坚定。支持克林顿的人中，54%的人表示已经完全决定了，而桑德斯的支持者中，58%的人称还没做最终决定。
And 43 percent of Democrats said they would enthusiastically support Mrs. Clinton as their presidential nominee, compared to 35 percent for Mr. Sanders. Slim majorities of women, nonwhites and older voters said they would enthusiastically back Mrs. Clinton as the party’s choice, while just three in 10 male Democrats said they would feel that way about her as their standard-bearer in 2016.
43%的民主党人表示会热情地支持克林顿作为总统提名人选，相比之下只有35%的人这样支持桑德斯。女性、非白人和上了年纪的选民中，略超半数的受访者表示，将会热情支持克林顿作为民主党提名人，但民主党内仅有约30%的男性表示，将会热情支持她作为2016年大选的旗手。
A strong majority of Democratic primary voters say they are paying at least some attention to the presidential campaign; 26 percent of Democrats say they have not been paying much attention, compared with 11 percent of Republican primary voters.
绝大多数民主党初选选民表示，至少给予了此次总统大选部分关注。26%的民主党人称没太关注，而相比之下只有11%的共和党初选选民表示没怎么关注。
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Nov. 6 to 10 on cellphones and landlines with 418 Democratic primary voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus six percentage points. Additional findings from the full poll will be published on Thursday at 6:30 p.m.
这次全国范围内的电话民调是在11月6日至10日期间，通过手机和座机在418名民主党初选选民中进行的。抽样误差率为正负六个百分点。此次调查的更多结果将于周四晚上6点30分公布。