Hillary Rodham Clinton called for accelerating the American-led operation to defeat the Islamic State on Thursday, going well beyond what President Obama has proposed by urging a no-fly zone with coalition forces to protect Syrians, expanding the deployment of Special Operations troops to assist local ground forces, and significantly stepping up airstrikes.
本周四，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)呼吁加快推进美国领导的打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)行动。她敦促与联军部队共同建立一个禁飞区，以保护叙利亚人，并增派特种作战部队来协助当地的地面部队，大幅增加空袭行动，这些远远超出了奥巴马总统提出的方案。
“Our goal is not to deter or contain ISIS, but to defeat and destroy ISIS,” Mrs. Clinton said, using an acronym for the Islamic State, the group that has claimed responsibility for the coordinated terrorist attacks in Paris last Friday.
“我们的目标不是阻止或遏制ISIS，而是击败和摧毁ISIS，”克林顿说。ISIS是伊斯兰国的首字母缩写，该组织已经宣布对上周五的巴黎恐怖袭击事件负责。
Speaking in New York at the Council on Foreign Relations, Mrs. Clinton took sharp aim at the Republican presidential candidates who have called for the United States to stop accepting Syrian refugees. “We cannot allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and our humanitarian obligations,” she said.
共和党总统候选人呼吁美国停止接受叙利亚难民，克林顿在纽约对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)讲话时对这种说法进行了尖锐抨击。“我们不能因为恐怖分子的恐吓就放弃我们的价值观，放弃我们的人道主义义务，”她说。
At the same time, she declared that the aftermath of the attacks in the French capital was “no time to be scoring political points.”
同时她还申明，法国首都刚刚遭受了袭击，现在不是“捞政治加分的时候”。
Mrs. Clinton’s approach to the Islamic State after the Paris attacks remains an incremental increase over what the White House is now doing — just one that would be executed at a faster pace. The Pentagon has said, for example, that it will bolster the use of Special Forces if the initial effort to train and equip Kurdish fighters and improve the targeting of airstrikes is successful; Mrs. Clinton appeared ready to do that now.
在巴黎袭击事件后，克林顿针对伊斯兰国的计划，仍然是在白宫目前行动的基础上逐量增加——只不过会以更快的速度执行。比如五角大楼已经表示过，如果为库尔德战士提供训练和装备，以及提高空袭精准性的初步行动看到成效，就会增派特种部队；克林顿目前似乎已经准备好了采取这种步骤。
She called for more air power, but only in cooperation with Persian Gulf allies, and acknowledged, under questioning from Fareed Zakaria, the moderator of the event, that Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates had halted their air attacks on the Islamic State, instead focusing their efforts in Yemen. Mrs. Clinton argued that creating a no-fly zone, enforced by many countries, “will confront a lot of our partners on what they are willing to do.” And, she argued, it would bolster the diplomacy that her successor as secretary of state, John Kerry, is pursuing to try to bring about a cease-fire.
她呼吁增派空中力量，但是只与波斯湾盟友合作开展行动，当活动主持人法里德·扎卡里亚(Fareed Zakari)提到，沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国已经停止对伊斯兰国的空袭，而是把注意力聚焦在也门上时，克林顿承认这是事实。她说，划设一个多国认同的禁飞区“可以让很多合作伙伴自问一下到底愿意做什么”，而且，她认为，这也有助于她的继任者国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)通过外交手段尽量促成停火。
Mrs. Clinton did not directly criticize Mr. Obama’s approach, and said her plan amounted to “an intensification and acceleration of the strategy” the White House has put forth.
克林顿没有直接批评奥巴马的做法，她称自己的计划是白宫目前战略的“加快加强版”。
But in a remarkable break with the administration, Mrs. Clinton declared publicly what White House officials have privately said for months: that the fight in Syria is no longer about ousting President Bashar al-Assad. “We need people to turn against the common enemy of ISIS,” she said.
但克林顿公开表达了白宫官员数月来私下发表的观点：在叙利亚的战斗不再是为了推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)。她说，“我们需要人们转而反对共同的敌人伊斯兰国。”这是克林顿在明确背离政府的立场。
In saying so, Mrs. Clinton seemed to align her strategic approach more closely with those of Russia and Iran, who are backing the Assad government, though she criticized both nations in her speech Thursday.
从此番言论来看，克林顿似乎采取了与支持阿萨德政府的俄罗斯及伊朗更为一致的战略方法，尽管她在周四的讲话中对这两个国家提出批评。
Mrs. Clinton offered additional details on her idea for a no-fly zone, saying it should be limited to northern Syria, similar to Turkish proposals for a buffer zone to protect civilians. Several Republican presidential candidates have also called for a more expansive no-fly zone.
克林顿提供了更多有关其禁飞区计划的细节，称禁飞区应该仅限于叙利亚北部，与土耳其希望创建缓冲区保护平民的提议类似。几名共和党总统候选人也曾呼吁创建一个更加广阔的禁飞区。
She also pushed back forcefully against Republican calls to bar Syrian refugees or to allow only those who are Christians to resettle in the United States.
她还有力地回击了共和党人的要求——禁止接受叙利亚难民或只允许信仰基督教的难民在美国重新定居。