WASHINGTON — In December 2009, toward the end of her first year as secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton agreed to a joint interview with perhaps her best-known living predecessor, Henry Kissinger.
华盛顿——2009年12月，在希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)担任国务卿将满一年的时候，她同意与亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)一同接受采访。在她之前的历任国务卿中，基辛格或许是健在者中最著名的一位。
As she pondered the encounter, she began to worry that her distant relationship with President Obama, who beat her for their party’s presidential nomination, might contrast unfavorably with Mr. Kissinger’s close collaboration with President Richard M. Nixon.
对那次会面进行筹划时，她开始担心她与奥巴马总统相对疏远的关系，会与基辛格与理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统的密切合作形成颇为不利的对比。奥巴马在民主党初选中击败了她，赢得了提名。
“In thinking about the Kissinger interview, the only issue I think that might be raised is that I see POTUS at least once a week while K saw Nixon every day,” she wrote in an email to aides, using the acronym for the president of the United States. “Of course, if I were dealing w that POTUS I’d probably camp in his office to prevent him from doing something problematic,” she added cheekily before returning to the main point: “Do you see this as a problem?”
“在考虑与基辛格的访谈时，我能想到的唯一可能会被提起的问题就是，我每周至少见总统一次，而基辛格每天都会与尼克松见面，”她在写给助手的一封邮件中说。“当然，如果我是和那个总统打交道，恐怕我会一直守在他的办公室里，以防他做出有问题的举动，”她戏谑地说道。然后她又回到了主要问题：“你觉得这会是个问题吗？”
She evidently did, at least potentially, then went ahead with the interview. But her concern reflected the awkward marriage of former rivals at the start of the Obama presidency. The release this week of about 3,000 pages of emails from Mrs. Clinton’s first year at the State Department presents a rare glimpse into the daily life of a secretary of state — especially one whose tenure will be at the heart of a campaign to win the presidency, which eluded Mrs. Clinton seven years ago.
她明显觉得这是个问题——至少可能会造成问题——然而还是接受了采访。但她的顾虑也反映了奥巴马总统任期之初，两名竞争对手的尴尬结合。本周，克林顿在国务院任职第一年的大约3000页电子邮件公之于众。从这个罕见的窗口，我们可以了解一位国务卿的日常生活——尤其是她担任国务卿的任期，在赢得总统高位的竞选过程中会十分重要。七年前，克林顿曾与总统之位失之交臂。
Trying to find her place at the head of a cabinet run by the man who had vanquished her, Mrs. Clinton nursed concerns about whether she was in the right meetings and whether the president or his people were holding grudges against those who had supported her during their epic 2008 primary contest. She traded messages with political advisers who sent her sometimes scathing assessments of the president she now served, although she was careful not to respond in kind in writing.
在这个击败自己的人所掌控的内阁里，克林顿想在高层职位上施展拳脚。她总是担心自己是否参加了正确的会议，担心奥巴马或他的幕僚，会不会对那些曾在2008年初选中支持过她的人心怀芥蒂。她还与一些政治顾问有电邮交流，后者有时会在发给她的邮件中，对她目前正在效力的总统做出毫不客气的评价，不过她会注意不用类似的语言进行回复。
While Mrs. Clinton’s portfolio was foreign policy, a former adviser made sure that she knew when Mr. Obama reversed his campaign position to embrace a version of a health care overhaul that he had criticized when she advocated it. And like most politicians, Mrs. Clinton paid careful attention to her press clippings, even fretting over an article buried on Page A8 of a newspaper that mentioned her old campaign spending and pressing for a correction.
虽然克林顿主要负责外交政策，但是当奥巴马改变竞选时的反对立场，转而对克林顿支持过的一项医改方案稍加调整并给予支持时，一名前顾问也会确保她知情。而且与大多数政治人物一样，克林顿也非常重视媒体对自己的报道，她甚至会为深藏在报纸A8版上的一篇文章感到困扰——那篇文章提到了她过去的竞选开支——并要求对方更正。
“I can’t tell if anyone is listening to Obama at un,” Mark Penn, her former campaign strategist, wrote to her in September 2009, referring to the United Nations, “but the lack of clear Afghanistan policy is unwinding the coalition and threatens to cause a massive deer in headlights problem for administration if not resolved soon.”
“我不知道联合国是否有人在听奥巴马讲话，”2009年9月，克林顿的前竞选策略师马克·佩恩(Mark Penn)在写给她的邮件中说，“但是缺乏明确的阿富汗政策会破坏联盟，而且如果不尽快得到解决，就会给政府制造一个令人不知所措的问题。”
Mr. Penn suggested thoughts for a speech by Mrs. Clinton, which she forwarded to aides. “Overlook the source,” she wrote, knowing that Mr. Penn was not popular among other Clinton advisers, “but idea that I should do a topper on timely events and make case is probably right.”
佩恩曾经为克林顿的一次演讲提出建议，随后克林顿把这封邮件转给了助手。“请忽视发件人，”她写道，因为她知道佩恩在自己的其他幕僚当中不是很受欢迎，“但是认为我应该对时事进行总结，并加以阐述的看法或许是对的。”
Other than those related to the 2012 terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya, the messages released by the State Department on Tuesday night represented just the first tranche of more than 50,000 pages to be disclosed in the coming months, mainly covering 2009. Moreover, Mrs. Clinton deleted tens of thousands of other messages that she said were personal.
除了涉及2012年利比亚班加西恐怖袭击的那些邮件之外，国务院周二夜间公布的邮件，只是将在未来数月公布的逾5万页邮件中的第一批。这5万页邮件主要是2009年的内容。此外，克林顿还删除了数万封所谓的个人邮件。
So conclusions at this point would be incomplete. But the messages now publicly reveal an exceedingly cautious politician acutely aware that anything she wrote could someday be read by a wider audience. Most of Mrs. Clinton’s messages were clipped, usually no more than two or three sentences, dealing with schedules or setting up phone calls.
所以，此时下结论会有些片面。但是，目前的邮件向公众展示了一名极其谨慎的政治人物，她非常清楚，她写的任何东西有朝一日都可能会被更多人看到。克林顿的大多数邮件都比较简明扼要，通常不过两三句话，或是在处理日程，或是在安排电话交谈。
The banality of some of the emails is striking given her stature as one of the world’s most prominent figures. She asked an aide to get her an iced tea. She engaged in a protracted struggle to get her fax machine to work. She evidently did not have a printer because she forwarded numerous messages to aides with the note, “Pls print.”
作为世界最显赫的人物之一，一些邮件的平凡程度有些令人惊讶。她曾要求一名助手给她一杯冰茶。为了修好传真机，她做了长时间的斗争。她明显没有打印机，因为她向助手发送了大量写着“请打印”的邮件。
Hints of personality emerge. In a message with the subject line “Don’t laugh!!” she asked an aide to find out about the carpets in the room where she met with China’s leadership. In another, when an aide reported that a Florida senator had stopped blocking a State Department nomination, she jokingly asked what price had to be paid: “Does this mean you have to go to Cuba and arrest Castro or just shovel more $ into Little Havana?”
一些邮件还显露了她的个性。在一封标题为“不要笑！！”的邮件中，她让一名助手去询问她会见中国领导层的房间里地毯的情况。当一名助手向她报告，佛罗里达州一名参议员不再阻挠国务院的一项任命时，她开玩笑地询问这需要付出什么代价：“是不是说，你得到古巴去把卡斯特罗抓起来，还是要再向小哈瓦那社区投些钱？”
When another aide, P. J. Crowley, complimented a coat she had been photographed wearing during a trip to Afghanistan — “its favorability rating was 77 percent,” he said about an online poll it inspired — she replied: “Thx! I bought toe coat in Kabul in 03 and thought it should get a chance to go home for a visit!!”
另一位助手P·J·克劳利(P. J. Crowley)称赞了克林顿一次访问阿富汗时所穿的外套，当时有人给她拍了照片。克劳利提到了那件外套引发的网络民意测验，“它的支持率是77%。”克林顿回复道：“谢谢！那件外套是我03年在喀布尔买的，当时就想它应该有一个回家看看的机会！！”
The diplomat Richard C. Holbrooke, a longtime friend who has since died, provided fodder for others who knew of his aspirations for her job. After she fell and injured her elbow, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell sent her a message: “Hillary, Is it true that Holbrooke tripped you? Just kidding.”
克林顿长期的朋友、现已过世的外交官理查德·C·霍尔布鲁克(Richard C. Holbrooke)为那些知道他有心担任国务卿的人提供了开玩笑的素材。在希拉里跌倒，肘部受伤之后，前国务卿科林·L·鲍威尔(Colin L. Powell)给她发了一封邮件：“希拉里，你真的是被霍尔布鲁克绊倒的？开个玩笑。”
John D. Podesta, a White House chief of staff to President Bill Clinton who is now chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign, had the same thought. “No matter what anybody says, we refuse to believe that Holbrooke tripped you,” he wrote to her.
比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统的白宫幕僚长、克林顿总统竞选团队的主席约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)的想法也一样。他写信给她说，“不论别人说什么，我们都拒绝相信你是被霍尔布鲁克绊倒的。”
In a few instances, Mrs. Clinton asked aides what could be done to help, for instance, a 10-year-old Yemeni girl who felt oppressed, or a Turkish Kurd who was about to be sent back to a country where he had been tortured, or Christians under siege in Iraq. But for the most part, she seemed to deal with substantive questions by telephone and rarely showed her hand in writing.
有几次，克林顿还曾询问助手如何能为一些人提供帮助，例如一名觉得受到压迫的10岁也门女孩，一名将被送回曾拷打他的国家的土耳其库尔德人，还有一名在伊拉克受到围攻的基督徒。不过大部分时间，她似乎都在用电话处理实质性问题，很少写信表明立场。
But she also stayed in touch with outside political advisers like Mr. Penn and Sidney Blumenthal, who wanted a State Department job but was rejected by Mr. Obama’s White House. Mr. Blumenthal sent long memos trying to shape her image, suggesting themes for speeches and passing along messages from people like Gordon Brown, then the British prime minister.
此外，她还与佩恩和西德尼·布鲁门塔尔(Sidney Blumenthal)等外部政治顾问保持联系。后者曾希望能在国务院供职，但奥巴马团队不同意。布鲁门塔尔会给她发长篇备忘录，其内容包括对她形象的塑造、为演讲的主题提供建议，以及传达来自时任英国首相的戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)等人的讯息。
While aides have said Mr. Blumenthal’s input was not solicited, Mrs. Clinton seemed to welcome his advice and insights. At different points, each sent a message after 10 p.m. asking if the other was awake and available for a phone call. Mrs. Clinton also heard from Mr. Penn, who scorned Mr. Obama. Any consideration of downgrading the Taliban as a focus of American military efforts, Mr. Penn wrote her, “defies the imagination” and would make the administration “vulnerable to losing moderate support and seeming weak and indecisive.”
虽然助手表示，布鲁门塔尔的邮件是“主动发来”的，但克林顿似乎对他的建议和意见持欢迎态度。二人曾多次在晚上10点以后给对方写信，问对方是否还没睡着，能不能打个电话。克林顿还收到了来自佩恩的邮件，后者对奥巴马表示了嘲讽。佩恩写信给她称，任何对降低塔利班在美国军事行动中的重要性的考虑，“都是不可思议的”，将会使美国政府“面临失去温和派支持的危险，并且看起来脆弱而犹豫不决。”