WASHINGTON — Hillary Rodham Clinton exclusively used a personal email account to conduct government business as secretary of state, State Department officials said, and may have violated federal requirements that officials’ correspondence be retained as part of the agency’s record.
华盛顿——美国国务院官员透露，希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在担任国务卿时，只使用个人电子邮件账户来处理政府事务，这可能违反了要求政府官员之间的通信应作为机构档案加以保留的联邦规定。
Mrs. Clinton did not have a government email address during her four-year tenure at the State Department. Her aides took no actions to have her personal emails preserved on department servers at the time, as required by the Federal Records Act.
克林顿在担任国务卿的四年里没有政府电子邮件账户。她的助手当时也没有按照《联邦档案法》(Federal Records Act)的规定，设法将她的个人电子邮件保存在国务院的服务器上。
It was only two months ago, in response to a new State Department effort to comply with federal record-keeping practices, that Mrs. Clinton’s advisers reviewed tens of thousands of pages of her personal emails and decided which ones to turn over to the State Department. All told, 55,000 pages of emails were given to the department.Mrs. Clinton stepped down from the secretary’s post in early 2013.
直到两个月前，鉴于国务院履行联邦档案操作规范的新举措，克林顿的幕僚才查阅了她的数万页电子邮件，决定将哪些移交给国务院。提供给国务院的电子邮件共计5.5万页。克林顿卸任国务卿职务，是在2013年初。
Her expansive use of the private account was alarming to current and former National Archives and Records Administration officials and government watchdogs, who called it a serious breach.
大量使用私人账户的行为，令国家档案和记录管理局(National Archives and Records Administration)的现任、前任官员以及政府监督机构大为吃惊，称这种行为是严重违规。
“It is very difficult to conceive of a scenario — short of nuclear winter — where an agency would be justified in allowing its cabinet-level-head officer to solely use a private email communications channel for the conduct of government business,” said Jason R. Baron, a lawyer at Drinker Biddle and Reath who is a former director of litigation at the National Archives and Records Administration.
“很难想象这么做有什么理由，除非是‘核冬天’，一家政府机构怎么可能允许其内阁级别的领导人完全通过私人邮件信道处理政府事务，”律师贾森·R·巴伦(Jason R. Baron)表示。巴伦曾任国家档案和记录管理局诉讼主管，现供职于Drinker Biddle and Reath律师事务所。
A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, Nick Merrill, defended her use of the personal email account and said she has been complying with the “letter and spirit of the rules.”
克林顿的发言人尼克·梅里尔(Nick Merrill)对她使用个人电子邮件账户的行为做出了辩解，称她一直都遵守“规章的条文和精神”。
Under federal law, however, letters and emails written and received by federal officials, such as the secretary of state, are considered government records and are supposed to be retained so that congressional committees, historians and members of the news media can find them. There are exceptions to the law for certain classified and sensitive materials.
然而按照联邦法律，国务卿等联邦官员书写及收到的信件、电子邮件，被视为政府档案，应当保留下来，以供国会委员会、历史学者和新闻媒体查阅。法律中对于某些保密或敏感的材料也提供了例外。
Mrs. Clinton is not the first government official — or first secretary of state — to use a personal email account on which to conduct official business.
克林顿并不是第一个使用个人邮箱处理公务的政府官员，也不是第一个这样做的国务卿。
But her exclusive use of her private email, for all of her work, appears unusual, Mr. Baron said. The use of private email accounts is supposed to be limited to emergencies, experts said, such as when an agency’s computer server is not working.
但巴伦说，她在所有工作中都使用私人电邮，这种做法不同寻常。专家表示，按理应该只有在紧急情况下才会使用私人电邮账户，比如机构的计算机服务器无法正常工作的时候。
“I can recall no instance in my time at the National Archives when a high-ranking official at an executive branch agency solely used a personal email account for the transaction of government business,” said Mr. Baron, who worked at the agency from 2000 to 2013.
“我记得在国家档案馆工作时，从来没有遇到过行政部门机构高级官员只用个人邮箱处理政务的情况，”巴伦说，他从2000年至2013年在该机构任职。
Regulations from the National Archives and Records Administration at the time required any emails sent or received from personal accounts be preserved as part of the agency’s records.
美国国家档案与文件署局(National Archives and Records Administration)当时的规章要求，收发自个人账户的任何电邮，都要作为该机构的记录加以保存。
But Mrs. Clinton and her aides failed to do so.
不过，克林顿及其助手们并未这么做。
It is not clear how many emails were in Mrs. Clinton’s account, and the process her advisers used to determine which ones related to her work at the State Department before turning them over.
目前尚不清楚克林顿的私人邮箱里有多少邮件，也不清楚她的顾问在提交材料前，使用何种方法来判别哪些电邮涉及她在国务院工作。
“It’s a shame it didn’t take place automatically when she was secretary of state as it should have,” said Thomas S. Blanton, the director of the National Security Archive, a group based at George Washington University that advocates government transparency. “Someone in the State Department deserves credit for taking the initiative to ask for the records back. Most of the time it takes the threat of litigation and embarrassment.”
“她当国务卿时没有主动照章办事，这很遗憾，”国家安全档案馆(National Security Archive)馆长托马斯·S·布兰顿(Thomas S. Blanton)说，该组织设在乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)，主张提高政府透明度。“国务院里有人主动要求他们归还记录，这值得赞扬。大多数时候，这都需要使出威胁手段，说要提起诉讼，令他们难堪。”
Mr. Blanton said high-level officials should operate as President Obama does, emailing from a secure government account, with every record preserved for historical purposes.
布兰顿说，高级官员应该像奥巴马总统那样，从安全的政府帐户发送电邮，这样每封邮件都能保存下来，成为历史资料。
“Personal emails are not secure,” he said. “Senior officials should not be using them.”
“个人电邮不安全，”他说。“高级官员不应该使用它们。”
Penalties for not complying with federal record-keeping requirements are rare, because the National Archives has few enforcement abilities.
没有照章保存联邦记录的行为极少遭受处罚，因为国家档案馆几乎没有执法权力。
Mr. Merrill, the spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, declined to detail why she chose to conduct State Department business from her personal account.
克林顿的发言人梅里尔拒绝详细解释为什么克林顿决定用个人账户开展国务院政务活动。
Mr. Merrill said that because Mrs. Clinton was sending emails to other State Department officials at their government accounts she had “every expectation they would be retained.” Mr. Merrill declined to answer questions about any emails that Mrs. Clinton may have sent to foreign leaders, people in the private sector, or government officials outside the State Department.
梅里尔说，克林顿把邮件发送到国务院其他官员的政府账户中，她“完全相信这些邮件能够得以保存。”当被问及克林顿是否有可能向外国领导人、私营部门人士或国务院之外的政府官员发送过电邮时，梅里尔拒绝作答。
The revelation about the private email account echoes longstanding criticisms directed at both the former secretary and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, for a lack of transparency and inclination toward secrecy.
一直有人诟病克林顿及其丈夫、前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)行事缺乏透明度，风格倾向于隐秘。本次私人电邮账户的曝光呼应了这一说法。
And others who, like Mrs. Clinton, are eyeing a candidacy for the White House are stressing a very different approach. Jeb Bush, who is seeking the Republican nomination for president, released a trove of emails in December from his eight years as governor of Florida.
其他那些和克林顿一样有意参选总统的人，都强调自己在这方面与她截然不同。去年12月，寻求共和党总统候选人提名的杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)公开了自己担任佛罗里达州州长八年来的电邮记录。
It is not clear whether Mrs. Clinton’s private email account included encryption or other security measures, given the sensitivity of her diplomatic activity.
鉴于外交活动的敏感性，目前尚不清楚克林顿的私人电邮账户是否采用了加密等安全措施。
Mrs. Clinton’s successor, Secretary of State John Kerry, has used a government email account since taking over the role, and his correspondence is being preserved contemporaneously as part of State Department records, according to his aides.
克林顿的继任者、国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)的助手说，他自上任以来一直使用政府电邮账号，他的电邮同时也作为国务院记录进行了保存。
Before the current regulations went into effect, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who served from 2001 to 2005, used personal email to communicate with American officials and ambassadors and foreign leaders.
在这个规章生效时之前，2001至2005年的国务卿科林·L·鲍威尔(Colin L. Powell)在与美国官员、大使以及外国领导人联络时使用个人电邮。
Last October, the State Department, as part of the effort to improve its record keeping, asked all previous secretaries of state dating back to Madeleine K. Albright to provide it with any records, like emails, from their time in office for preservation.
去年10月，国务院为了改善其记录存档状况，要求自马德琳·K·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine K. Albright)以来的所有前国务卿提交在任期间的各种记录，用于存档；电邮也在其中。
“These steps include regularly archiving all of Secretary Kerry’s emails to ensure that we are capturing all federal records,” said a department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki.
“这些措施包括：定期归档国务卿克里的全部电邮，以确保我们获得了所有的联邦记录，”国务院发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)说。
The existence of Mrs. Clinton’s personal email account was discovered as a House committee investigating the attack on the American Consulate in Benghazi sought correspondence between Mrs. Clinton and her aides about the attack.
克林顿使用个人邮箱被发现，是因为众议院一个委员会在调查美国驻班加西领事馆遭袭案时，需要克林顿及其助手之间的相关电邮通信。
Two weeks ago, Mrs. Clinton provided the committee with about 300 emails — amounting to roughly 900 pages — about the Benghazi attacks that Mrs. Clinton’s aides had found among her personal emails.
两周前，克林顿向该委员会提交了关于班加西攻击案的约300封电邮，累积共提交了约900封。这些资料是克林顿的助手在其个人邮箱中找到的。