WASHINGTON — Few doubt that Hillary Rodham Clinton’s nomination for president would be good for women. But her candidacy would also probably block the paths for other women running for the White House, and, notably, for those who would like to be vice president.
华盛顿——希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)被提名为总统候选人有益于女性整体，这一点很少有人怀疑。但是，对于其他希望入主白宫的女性，特别是对于希望成为副总统的女性来说，希拉里的参选可能会成为一个障碍。
Never has there been so much rising female talent in the Democratic Party, with a record 20 women in the Senate, 16 of them Democrats. They include Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, the liberal fund-raising powerhouse and author of a new book, “A Fighting Chance”; Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, the former prosecutor with made-for-state-fair charms; the issue-grabber Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York; and others, like Gov. Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire. Any one of them would be a potential candidate for the bottom of a 2016 ticket, or possibly even have a shot at the top.
目前民主党崛起的女性人才前所未有地丰富；女参议员的数量达到了创纪录的20名，其中16名都属于民主党。她们中有马萨诸塞州参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)，她是自由派筹资能手，最近出了一本书《战斗的机会》(A Fighting Chance)；还有明尼苏达州参议员艾米·科罗布查尔(Amy Klobuchar)​​，她曾是一位检察官，极具魅力，是该州的一道风景线；以及纽约州参议员陆天娜(Kirsten E. Gillibrand)；其他人里还有新罕布什尔州州长玛吉·哈桑(Maggie Hassan)。她们中的任何一位都可能是2016年副总统候选人的潜在人选，甚至还有可能位列总统候选人名单。
Ms. Warren emphatically discouraged the idea that she was even considering a White House bid. “I’m not running for president,” she told ABC News on Tuesday.
沃伦强调自己甚至没有考虑过要角逐白宫。“我不会竞选总统，”本周二她告诉ABC新闻。
Yet even in an America that has elected a black president, unraveled same-sex marriage bans across several states and cottoned to a woman at the head of General Motors, having two women on a 2016 ticket may be a leap of electoral faith.
然而，即使美国已经选出了一位黑人总统，有好几个州解除了同性婚姻禁令，还逐渐接受了通用汽车(General Motors)的女掌门，但是让两个女性的名字同时出现在2016年的选票上，仍然可能是选举信念上的一个飞跃。
“It’s certainly possible to have two women,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. “I am not sure it’s wise. You want a ticket that represents men and women.”
“当然有可能出现两位女性，”加州民主党参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)说。“我说不准这是否明智。你希望有一张既能代表男性也能代表女性的选票。”
Yet there is an incipient counterargument among female politicians and campaign veterans that a two-woman ticket may be just the sort of medicine that Americans — who polls suggest have grown weary of status quo leadership — are craving.
然而，一些女性政界人士和宣传活动老手已经开始反驳说，拥有两名女性的选票可能正好是美国人渴望的一剂良药——民调显示，人们已经厌倦了现在的领导状态。
“I don’t think anyone should dismiss that idea,” said Bill Carrick, a Democratic campaign consultant in Los Angeles. “It’s just like with Clinton and Gore, when people said, ‘You can’t have two progressive Southern young candidates.’ You can’t until you do it. A great ticket that is powerful and historically important is awfully strong.”
“我认为大家不应该抛开这个想法，”洛杉矶的民主党竞选顾问比尔·卡里克(Bill Carrick)说。“就像当年的克林顿和戈尔，有人也说过，‘不能有两个来自南方的、持进步立场的年轻候选人。’你不去做就做不到。一张出色的、很有说服力的、具有重大历史意义的选票是强大有力的。”
Of course, Mrs. Clinton has not said she is running, and should she choose to, her nomination is no fait accompli. Yet the fact that many in the Democratic Party see an inevitability to her nomination should she run is causing some restlessness among a generation of women who otherwise might be obvious running-mate candidates in 2016.
当然，希拉里还没有表示她要参选总统，如果她想参选，她的提名也还未成定局。不过很多民主党人都认为，如果她想参选，她肯定就会获得提名。这种看法正在一些女性中引发不安，这些女性本来很有可能成为2016年总统候选人的竞选伙伴。
“If Hillary Clinton decides to run, she will bring many women with her,” said Ruth B. Mandel, the director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. “Her candidacy would be a historic moment in mobilizing women’s interest. But whether she would put another woman on the ticket, that’s a very different calculus. As women we tend to do our changes in increments.”
“如果希拉里决定参选，她会带动很多女性跟她一起崛起，”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)伊格尔顿政治学研究所(Eagleton Institute of Politics)主任露丝·B·曼德尔(Ruth B. Mandel)说。“她参选总统可能会成为调动女性兴趣的历史性事件。但她是否会把另一名女性带上选票，那就基本上是另外一回事了。作为女性，我们往往会以循序渐进的方式做出改变。”
While there is no precedent for two women running together for the highest office in the United States, women have made gains in groups.
虽然没有两名女性同时角逐美国最高职位的先例，但女性并肩作战也获得过成功。
In 1992, when two Senate seats became open in California, the political conventional wisdom concluded that the two Democrats running — Ms. Feinstein and Barbara Boxer — would not possibly win in the same cycle. They are both serving today and lead powerful Senate committees.
1992年时，加利福尼亚有两个参议员席位空缺，政界的传统智慧认为，竞选参议员的两位民主党人——范斯坦和芭芭拉·博克瑟(Barbara Boxer)——不可能在同一个任期获胜。现在她们都是参议员，领导着有实权的参议院委员会。
New Hampshire now has two female senators — Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, and Kelly Ayotte, a Republican — and its entire top elected slate in the state is made up of women.
新罕布什尔州现在有两名女参议员——民主党的珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)和共和党的凯利·阿约特(Kelly Ayotte)——该州当选者名单中靠前的都是女性。
And it is now common to see women at the upper reaches of power in Washington. “It was once hard to imagine a female secretary of state,” Ms. Mandel said. “Then we had three in a row.”
现在人们经常可以在华盛顿权力的上游看到女性的身影。“女人当上国务卿一度是很难想象的事情，”曼德尔说。“结果连着出现了三位女国务卿。”
A record nine women now lead Senate committees; the last four major pieces of legislation in the Senate — the budget, the omnibus spending measure, the farm bill and the flood insurance bill — were all written by women.
领导参议院委员会的女性数量达到创纪录的九位；参议院最新的四个主要立法项目——预算、综合开支措施，农业法案和洪水保险法案-——都是由女性草拟的。
A nomination for Mrs. Clinton could also pose a quandary for Republicans, who have struggled to win female support since Mr. Clinton’s election in 1992. There are strong contenders among Republican women, especially in governor’s seats in South Carolina and New Mexico.
希拉里获得提名也可能会给共和党带来混乱。自从克林顿赢得1992年的大选，共和党人一直无法赢得女性的支持。共和党女性中也有强有力的竞争者，特别是那些竞争南卡罗来纳州和新墨西哥州州长的共和党女性。
“I think the combination of Hillary and having a good bench of Republican women will make it very tempting,” said Beth Myers, a Republican consultant who helped Mr. Romney on his selection of a running mate in 2012.
“希拉里，以及几位出色的共和党女性候选人，我认为这两者结合将非常诱人，”共和党顾问贝丝·迈尔斯(Beth Myers)说，她2012年曾帮助罗姆尼(Romney)选择竞选伙伴。