Hillary and Bill Clinton have one home in Washington, D.C., another in Chappaqua, N.Y., and a whole wide world that opens its arms and wallets to them.
希拉里和比尔·克林顿(Hillary and Bill Clinton)夫妇在华盛顿特区有个家，在纽约州查帕阔还有一个，无数人会向他们张开双臂，对他们慷慨解囊。
But their permanent address is on the fault line where defiance meets self-destruction.
但他们的永久地址，位于藐视一切和自我毁灭之间的断层。
They know what the caricature of them is and they play right into it. They’re familiar with the rap against them and generously feed it. And they tune out their critics, at least the ones they’re not savaging.
他们知道自己被描绘成了如何不堪的形象，偏偏依照那形象去行事。他们清楚自己受到什么样的斥责，却大度地为斥责提供素材。他们对批评者视而不见，至少对那些没有遭到他们凶残攻击的人是这样。
Although they’ve long been derided for a surrender of principle when they’re on the hunt for donations, their foundation has raked in money in a manner that opens them up to fresh, predictable accusations of that.
他们在寻觅献金时毫无底线，这从来是他们被嘲笑的地方，但他们的基金会还是能大举敛财，数额大到让他们可以欣然面对更多意料之中的新指责。
Although they’ve long been cast as greedy — remember the china, flatware and furniture carted out of the White House? — they hit the speaking circuit in a way that only strengthened that impression. Audiences of Wall Street bankers, fees in the hundreds of thousands, extra coddling: They have demanded, received and inevitably been blasted for all of that.
他们一直给人一种贪婪的印象——还记得从白宫搬出的那一车车瓷器、餐具和家具吗？——他们的巡回演讲活动，进而加剧了这种印象。观众席里的华尔街银行家，数十万美元的收费，高规格的招待：他们要求了，得到了，最终免不了要因此被猛批。
And now, from Michael Schmidt’s story in The Times, we learn that Hillary’s response to her reputation for flouting rules and operating in secrecy was to put what could be construed as a cloak over her communications as secretary of state by using only a private email account.
希拉里的无视规则、行事隐秘是出了名的，而现在，我们通过迈克尔·施密特(Michael Schmidt)的时报报道得知，她对这个坏名声做出了这样的回应，在任国务卿期间，她只使用一个私人电子邮件账户进行通讯——这种做法可以被视为一种掩盖手段。
There’s pushback from her defenders over how rare this really was. There are explanations and information still to come.
为她辩解的人反击说，这种做法并不稀罕。接下来还会出现许多的解释和信息。
But this was reckless, given the questions that would surely be asked if it came to light, the likelihood that it would, and how she’d wind up looking.
然而，想想此事一旦曝光——被曝光的可能性极大，人们会问出怎样的问题，而她会落入多么狼狈的境地，就知道这样做是多么不计后果。
Does she have a political death wish?
她写好政治遗嘱了吗？
Until a month ago, one of the arguments I frequently heard in favor of her presumed candidacy for the presidency was that she’d been vetted like nobody’s ever been vetted, with no surprises left. All the skeletons had been tugged from the Clintons’ labyrinthine closets. All the mud had been dug up and flung.
一个月前，在支持她竞选总统的理由中，经常听到这么一条：她受到的严密审视是无人能及的，她已经没有什么出人意料的地方了。藏在克林顿家那迷宫般的柜子里的龌龊，已经悉数被翻出。黑历史人尽皆知。
But that assessment shortchanged the couple’s ability to make new messes. It ignored the “Groundhog Day” in which they star.
但这个判断低估了这对夫妇制造新龌龊的能力。他们忘了两人出演的《土拨鼠日》(Groundhog Day)。
Republicans are having a field day. The dominant figure at the Conservative Political Action Conference last week wasn’t Jeb Bush, Rand Paul or Scott Walker. It was Hillary Clinton, in absentia.
共和党人在狂欢庆祝。上周的保守派政治行动会议(Conservative Political Action Conference)上，主角不是杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)、兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)或斯科特·沃克(Scott Walker)。而是不在场的希拉里·克林顿。
Referring to the controversial sources of funds raised by the Clinton Foundation in recent years, Ted Cruz joked that she wasn’t present because the conference’s organizers “couldn’t find a foreign nation to foot the bill.”
特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)提到近年来克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)争议性的筹款来源，开玩笑说，她没来是因为大会主办方“找不到一个海外国家付钱给她。”
Reince Priebus added: “Hillary barely comes out in public these days. If there’s not a private luxury jet and a quarter-million-dollar speaking fee waiting for her, you can forget about it.”
雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)补了一句：“这阵子希拉里很少露面。你要是拿不出个私人豪华飞机和25万演讲费，就甭指望她出来。”
That gibe was over the top. But it touched on a worry that many Democrats have: Can Hillary, of all Democrats, persuasively style herself as a champion of the struggling middle class?
这些嘲弄很夸张。但它触及了许多民主党人担心的东西：这么多民主党人，偏要选希拉里来扮演苦海中的中产阶级的捍卫者，能有说服力吗？
It also demonstrates how much ammunition she’s needlessly giving a future Republican rival.
它还表明，她正在毫无必要地给未来的共和党对手输送大量弹药。
That is, if she runs and if she gets her party’s nomination. Democrats should look closely at the revelations of recent weeks and think hard about finding a primary opponent for her, one more fearsome than those who have stepped forward so far.
前提是她参选，并且能得到本党提名。民主党人应该密切留意近几周曝光的事情，努力给她寻找一个首要对手，这个人要比现在站出来的人更具威慑力。
Only then would she get the practice she may need in answering the latest charges against her. Only then would Democratic voters see how well she handles that. Only then would they be forced to reckon fully with her habit of clinging to her ways.
只有这样，她才能在应对最近这些指责的过程中得到锻炼。只有这样，共和党选民才能看到她处理此事的手腕。只有这样，他们才会被迫去充分认识她自行其是的一贯作派。
She and Bill have lived their entire political lives under fire, some of it deserved, some of it not. It’s as if they decided at a certain point that they’d never get a fair shake and should cut the corners that they could and behave as they wished. Their foes would storm the gates regardless.
她和比尔的整个政治生涯无时无刻不背负着骂名，其中有些是他们应得的，有些不是。仿佛在某个瞬间，他们认定自己永远得不到公平的对待，从此开始凡事靠自己，想怎么样就怎么样。反正无论怎么做仇家都会找上门。
But there are times when the Clintons are their own worst enemies.
但有时候，克林顿夫妇的头号敌人是他们自己。
Insistent that his persecutors would find sexual misdeeds even where none existed, Bill gave them a blue dress and Monica Lewinsky.
比尔坚称，迫害他的人会给他扣不当性行为的帽子，哪怕根本不存在这种事，结果他给了他们一条蓝裙子和莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)。
Aggrieved by the way her detractors saw her as haughtily above it all, Hillary decided on an approach to emails as secretary of state that has made her look haughtily above it all.
诋毁者说希拉里目空一切，这让她愤怒不已，因此决定用这种方式来处理她的国务卿邮件，让人觉得她目空一切。
Is that entitlement? Or hubris?
这算是骄矜？还是自大？
An inability to change? Or a refusal to?
无力改变？还是拒绝改变？
I approached someone who knows the Clintons well, asked how to make sense of this and got an answer that echoed observations about them from the past: “They’d rather seek forgiveness than permission.”
我联络了一个和克林顿家相熟的人，问此人该如何看待此事，得到的回答，和我以前对他们的观察是呼应的：“他们宁可寻求宽恕，而不是许可。”