WASHINGTON — Federal investigators have obtained a warrant to begin searching a large cache of emails belonging to a top aide to Hillary Clinton, federal law enforcement officials said Sunday, as prosecutors and F.B.I. agents scrambled to review as much of the information as possible before Election Day.
华盛顿——周日，联邦执法官员表示，联邦调查人员已经获得了搜查令，开始调查希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)一名高级助手的一大批电子邮件。检察官和联邦调查局(FBI)特工想赶在选举日之前核查尽可能多的信息。
It remains unclear, though, whether they can finish their work by then. “The process has begun,” a federal law enforcement official said.
但是目前尚不清楚，他们能否在那时完成这项工作。“工作已经开始进行了，”一名联邦执法官员表示。
Earlier this month, agents in an unrelated investigation of the disgraced congressman Anthony D. Weiner discovered emails belonging to his estranged wife, Huma Abedin, the aide to Mrs. Clinton. That prompted a renewed interest among F.B.I. agents who had investigated Mrs. Clinton for her use of a private email server as secretary state and had concluded their case without charges in July.
本月早些时候，特工在对丑闻缠身的众议员安东尼·D·韦纳(Anthony D. Weiner)进行无关联的调查时，发现了他已分居的妻子、克林顿的助手胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)的电子邮件，这引起了联邦调查局重新启动克林顿担任国务卿期间使用私人电邮服务器一案调查的兴趣。该调查在7月结束，当时没有提出任何指控。
A federal law enforcement official said agents had discovered hundreds of thousands of Ms. Abedin’s emails on her husband’s computer, but investigators expected to seize only a portion of the total. Agents will have probable cause to search only the messages related to the Clinton investigation.
一名联邦执法官员说，特工们在阿贝丁丈夫的电脑上发现了成千上万封她的电邮，但调查人员预计这只占总数的一部分。特工可能有理由只对那些与克林顿调查案相关的内容进行搜查。
Some of Ms. Abedin’s emails passed through Mrs. Clinton’s private server, officials said, which means there is a high likelihood that the F.B.I. has already read them.
阿贝丁的一些电邮是通过克林顿的私人服务器收发的，官员们说，这意味着很有可能FBI已经看过它们。
Since the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, revealed the existence of the emails in a letter to Congress on Friday, senior Justice Department and F.B.I. officials have been under tremendous pressure to review the messages quickly. Both Mrs. Clinton and her Republican rival, Donald J. Trump, have called for the F.B.I. to say publicly what it knows before Election Day.
自从联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)上周五在致国会的信中透露了这批电邮的存在之后，司法部和联邦调查局的高级官员就一直承受巨大压力，需要迅速评估这批邮件。克林顿和她的共和党对手唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)都呼吁联邦调查局在选举日之前公开细节。
Over the weekend, senior Justice Department officials said they would make all resources available to conduct the investigation as quickly as possible, saying Mr. Comey’s letter — just days before the election — gave the matter an unprecedented urgency.
上周末，司法部高级官员说，他们将提供所有资源，以促进调查的尽快进行，现在离选举只有数天时间，科米的信让这个问题具有了前所未有的紧迫性。
The Justice Department efforts were described by three federal law enforcement officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case.
三名联邦执法官员对司法部的努力进行了描述，由于没有获得讨论该案的授权，他们不愿具名。
Late Friday and early Saturday, law enforcement officials said there was no chance the email review could be completed before Election Day.
周五晚和周六早间，执法官员说，要在选举日之前完成这些电邮的评估是不可能的。