Last week, Hillary Clinton made news for an appearance at the Women in the World Summit, where she discussed the recent presidential election, her personal evolution and the state of the union. This week, she is making news for a different kind of appearance: as a shoe model on Katy Perry’s Instagram feed.
上星期，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在世界妇女大会(Women in the World Summit)上的亮相成了新闻，会上她讨论了前不久的总统选举、她的个人成长以及当前的形势。本周，她的新亮相又成了新闻：在凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)的Instagram上，她成了鞋模。
Ms. Perry, a singer/designer who introduced her shoe collection this year, posted a picture on Instagram of Mrs. Clinton wearing “The Hillary,” a suede pump — available in pink or seafoam green with a stacked 3.5-inch Lucite heel with moons and stars floating inside — that sells for $139. The former secretary of state was wearing a pink pair, and seemed pretty happy about it.
在Instagram上介绍自己今年的鞋履系列时，歌手兼设计师佩里贴出了一张克林顿脚穿“希拉里”(The Hillary)的照片，这是一款麂皮尖头高跟鞋，有粉红或海泡石绿可供选择，搭配3.5英寸高的透明树脂叠层鞋跟，里面漂浮着月亮和星星，售价为139美元。前国务卿穿着粉红款，似乎很喜欢它。
Mrs. Clinton and Ms. Perry have been mutual supporters for a while. The singer endorsed Mrs. Clinton for president, stumped for her during the latest campaign, and sang at the Democratic National Convention; Mrs. Clinton, after her election defeat, made a surprise appearance at the Unicef Snowflake Ball to present Ms. Perry with the Audrey Hepburn Humanitarian Award.
克林顿和佩里的相互支持已经有一段时间了。佩里支持克林顿竞选总统，在最近的大选中为她站台讲话，并在民主党全国大会上唱歌；克林顿在选举失败后，意外地出现在联合国儿童基金会雪花慈善晚会(Unicef Snowflake Ball)上，向佩里颁发了奥黛丽·赫本人道主义奖(Audrey Hepburn Humanitarian Award)。
This, however, is the first time the relationship has extended to the fashion sphere.
然而，这是两人的关系第一次延伸到时尚界。
It’s actually a fairly daring move, even for someone who is not running for office or in a position of official authority. After all, Mrs. Clinton knows that her every move in public is being watched and parsed for meaning. And she has a long history with clothing issues, good and bad. Which means that she knows that wearing the shoes is going to be seen as an endorsement, and she is wearing them for a reason.
这实际上是一个相当大胆的举动，即使是对于一个没有谋求公职或从事官方职务的人来说也是如此。毕竟，克林顿知道，她在公众场合的每一个举动都会被审视和分析出各种含义，而且长期以来，她在着装方面有不少话题，不管是好的还是坏的。这意味着她知道穿这双鞋子会被视为对它的认可，她穿这双鞋子是有理由的。
And that is?
什么理由呢？
The reaction tells part of the story.
人们的反应说明了部分问题。
As of Wednesday morning, Ms. Perry’s post had more than 309,000 likes, and there were only three pink pairs of The Hillary left in stock on katyperrycollections.com, and five green pairs, which is one way to test the waters of Mrs. Clinton’s continued appeal. Breitbart News, however, saw the moment as an expression of weakness, using the headline “Hillary Clinton Reduced to Modeling Shoes for Katy Perry.” (Breitbart has recently been going after the fashion world: A recent headline was “NY Fashion Industry Outsources Elite Jobs to H-1B Contract Workers,” and an article on Sunday attacked the Council of Fashion Designers of America, Michael Kors and Ralph Lauren for joining forces with the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg’s FWD.us to promote changes in immigration policy.
截至周三上午，佩里的帖子已经获得超过30.9万次点赞，katyperrycollections.com网站上，粉红色“希拉里”的库存只剩下三双，绿色款只剩下五双，这是测试克林顿还剩下多少吸引力的好办法。布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)觉得这是示弱的表现，使用了“希拉里·克林顿屈尊为凯蒂·佩里充当鞋模”这一表态（布莱巴特最近一直在追击时尚界：近期有一篇文章是“纽约时装业将顶尖工作外包给H-1B合同工”，周日的一篇文章袭击了美国时装设计师协会、迈克尔·科尔斯[Michael Kors]和拉夫·劳伦[Ralph Lauren]与Facebook创始人马克·扎克伯格[Mark Zuckerberg]的FWD.us合作，推动移民政策的变化。)
Perhaps more pointedly, a woman wrote on Twitter that “6 months ago Hillary Clinton thought she’d be the next President of USA. Now she’s advertising Katy Perry’s shoeline sale. I CANT BREATHE.” Beneath her post, some commenters compared the move to the actions of the current first family, whose members have created controversy because of the entanglements of their personal brands.
Twitter上一位女士的发言或许更加尖刻：“6个月前，希拉里·克林顿还认为她会是美国的下一任总统。现在她正在给凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)的鞋子打广告。我无法呼吸。”在她的推文下面，一些评论者将这一举动与目前第一家庭的行为进行比较，他们目前正由于个人品牌的纠葛而引起争议。
The comparison isn’t really correct. Mrs. Clinton is not benefiting financially from the Katy Perry relationship, though the very public choice of a somewhat wacky shoe is indubitably something of an image-changer: a declaration of independence from expectations and tradition, a visual statement that goes with her new haircut.
这个比较并不正确。克林顿并没有从凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)的关系中获取经济利益，虽然公然选择一双多少有些古怪的鞋子无疑代表了一种形象变化：一种摆脱他人期望与传统的宣言，一种视觉上的声明，她的新发型也有同样作用。
Mrs. Clinton, after all, has had a famously conflicted relationship with fashion, chafing against the idea that she would in any way be defined, or identified, by what she wore as first lady or as a Senate candidate, seeing it as gender prejudice; then relaxing into her own uniform; and then using fashion as a tool to increase her relatability, by making jokes about her pantsuits and hair. But a social media post in which Mrs. Clinton not only wears Ms. Perry’s shoes but also has her arms spread in a “ta-da” pose, suggests Mrs. Clinton may be entering yet another stage: one where she actually has fun with clothes.
毕竟，克林顿与时尚之间的冲突一度非常著名，作为第一夫人或参议员候选人时，她非常讨厌那种自己会被身上所穿的衣服来定义或识别的想法，认为那是一种性别偏见；后来她很放松地穿着自己的制服；再后来又用利用时装来增加自己的亲切感，拿自己的长裤套装和发型开玩笑。但是这一次，在一则社交媒体的帖子上，克林顿不仅穿着佩里的鞋子，而且还伸开胳膊，摆出一个“好看吧”的姿势，这表示克林顿可能会进入一个新阶段：她真的很享受穿衣打扮。
That’s not a bad thing. And now the resistance, which took its dressing cues from the candidate last fall, from pantsuit nation to the voters who went to the polls in suffragists’ white, has something to wear on its feet.
这不是什么坏事。去年秋天的抵抗者们曾经从希拉里的穿着中得到启发，从“裤装国”，到身穿妇女参政论者的白衣去投票的选民，现在他们又有新鞋可穿了。