Women, as Hillary Clinton showed this morning, know how to absorb pain. And Mrs. Clinton has had plenty of practice about how to stand before the cameras after public humiliation.
正如希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)今天上午所示，女性知道如何消化痛苦。克林顿有很多经验，知道如何在公开受辱之后站在摄像机前。
Clearly, she needed time to compose herself. She made no appearances overnight, instead calling Donald J. Trump to concede. But when she strode onstage in purple and gray, Bill Clinton behind her in a purple tie, her voice did not waver.
很显然，她需要时间来整理好情绪。整夜她都没有现身，只是打电话向唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)认输。但是当她在台上，穿着紫灰配色的衣服，戴着一条紫色的领带的比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)站在身后时，她的声音毫无惶然。
Women seldom have the luxury of giving in to pain. Many have children or grandchildren or aging parents to tend, whether they themselves are sick or in emotional turmoil.
很少有女性能享受到尽情沉浸于痛苦的奢侈。很多人有孩子、孙子，或年迈的父母需要照顾，无论她们自己是否生病，是否有情绪波动。
So Mrs. Clinton faced her despondent campaign staff and her despondent half of the country and tried to rally them. She spoke most directly to young people, and to women and girls. She had hoped to stand before them as a symbol of all that women could achieve. Now she had to demonstrate once again what women can endure.
因此，面对沮丧的竞选工作人员和一半沮丧的国民，克林顿试图安慰他们。她的讲话主要是针对年轻人、女人和女孩。她曾希望自己是作为一种象征站在女性面前，让她们看到自己可以达到怎样的成就。但现在她不得不再次证明女性的忍耐力。
“I’ve had successes and setbacks, sometimes really painful ones,” she told them.
“我有过成功和挫折，有时真的很痛苦，”她告诉他们。
It was hard not to recall her standing beside Bill Clinton after the whole world knew graphic and humiliating details about the affairs he had denied having.
这不免让人回想起她当年站在比尔·克林顿旁边，整个世界都知道他所否认的绯闻中有哪些露骨而耻辱的细节。
“To all the women and especially the young women who put their faith in me I want you to know that nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion,” she said, and here she had to clear her throat. “I know we still have not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling but some day somebody will, and hopefully sooner than we might think right now.”
“对于所有的女性，特别是那些对我抱有信心的年轻女性，我希望你知道，没有什么比成为你们的英雄更加自豪的事情了，”说到这里，她不得不清了一下嗓子。“我知道，我们现在还没有打破最高、最坚硬的玻璃天花板，但有一天有人会打破它，希望那一天出现得比我们现在想像的更早。”
It’s difficult to know right now all that stood in the way of shattering that ceiling. Was it a woman, or this woman? Was it Mrs. Clinton as symbol of the Washington establishment, as a consummate insider in a time of profound distrust of the elite?
现在还很难弄清，阻挡她打破天花板的因素都有些什么。是因为她身为女人，还是因为她本人？是因为在一个对精英存在深刻不信任感的时期，克林顿作为一个完美的局内人，代表了华盛顿建制势力吗？
We do know that voters disproportionately punish women who are seen as dishonest. We do know that it’s hard for strong, assertive and ambitious women to be seen as likable and competent at the same time.
我们知道，选民格外厌恶那些被视为不诚实的女性。我们知道，坚强、自信和雄心勃勃的女人很难被同时看作既讨喜、又能干。
Political scientists and cultural commentators will long debate what happened in this election, to this woman and to many women. The question is whether the image of Mrs. Clinton, composed and gracious in defeat, persevering through pain, will inspire women to try again?
对于这次选举中发生了什么，它对希拉里和许多女性意味着什么，政治学家和文化评论家将进行长期的争论。问题在于，克林顿面对失败沉稳而从容，她不屈不挠地挺过痛苦的形象，会激励女性再尝试一次吗？