RENO, Nev. — Hillary Clinton delivered a blistering denunciation Thursday of Donald J. Trump’s personal and political history with race, arguing in her most forceful terms yet that a nationalist conservative fringe had engulfed the Republican Party.
内华达州里诺——周四，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在种族方面的个人与政治表现发起猛烈的谴责，使用她了迄今为止最有力的措辞，称他是一名吞没了共和党的民族主义保守派边缘分子。
In a 31-minute address, building to a controlled simmer, Mrs. Clinton did everything but call Mr. Trump a racist outright — saying he had promoted “racist lie” after “racist lie,” pushed conspiracy theories with “racist undertones” and heartened racists across the country by submitting to an “emerging racist ideology known as the alt-right.”
在这场为时31分钟、循序渐进的演讲中，克林顿谈到了有关这一话题的一切，就差直接称特朗普是一名种族主义者——说他在宣传一个接一个的“种族主义谎言”，贩卖带“种族主义暗示”的阴谋理论，以及遵从一种“被称为另类右派的种族主义意识形态”，助长了全国各地的种族主义者的气焰。
“He is taking hate groups mainstream,” Mrs. Clinton told supporters at a community college here, “and helping a radical fringe take over the Republican Party.”
“他在把仇恨团体变成主流，”克林顿在一所社区大学里对她的支持者讲道，“还在帮助一股激进边缘势力掌控共和党。”
Mrs. Clinton said that while a racially charged and “paranoid fringe” had always existed in politics, “it’s never had the nominee of a major party stoking it, encouraging it and giving it a national megaphone, until now.”
克林顿表示，尽管政界一直存充满种族主义观念的“偏执边缘势力”，“但在此之前，这种势力从来没有得到一位重要政党的总统提名人的煽动和鼓励，在全国大肆宣传。”
Mrs. Clinton’s remarks coincide with a conspicuous shift in strategy from Mr. Trump, who has spoken with more compassion about people in the country illegally and expressed a desire to win African-American support. He has even suggested he might revisit his call to deport 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally, a pivot seen as an attempt to draw in moderate voters turned off by his views.
克林顿做出上述言论，碰巧是在特朗普的竞选策略出现明显转变的时候，他开始更具同情心地谈起非法来到这个国家的人，还表达了支持非裔美国人的愿望。他甚至表示可能会重新考虑之前提出的将1100万非法移民驱逐出境的呼吁。这种转变被认为是试图争取之前因他的观点弃他而去的温和派选民。
With Mr. Trump’s rise, Mrs. Clinton has often struck a have-you-no-sense-of-decency theme in her critiques — warning sternly and repeatedly that the arc of his candidacy transcended standard political attack. But her effort on Thursday was remarkable for its exhaustive accounting of Mr. Trump’s controversial racial history in business and in his presidential campaign.
对于特朗普的崛起，克林顿经常在她的评论中采用一种“你不知何为体面”的主题——反复而严厉地警告，他当选候选人的过程超越了标准的政治抨击。但她在周四的努力非比寻常，因为演讲全面地回顾了特朗普从商和参与总统竞选过程中富有争议的种族主义历史。
Mrs. Clinton detailed the Justice Department’s housing discrimination case against Mr. Trump during the 1970s, noting that the applications of black and Latino residents “would be marked with a ‘C’ — ‘C’ for colored.”
克林顿详细描述了司法部在上世纪70年代指控特朗普住房歧视的案件，指出黑人和拉丁裔居民的申请“会被打上‘C’的符号——‘C’代表有色人群。”
She said state regulators had fined a Trump casino for repeatedly removing black dealers from the floor and reminded the audience of Mr. Trump’s promotion of “birtherism,” questioning President Obama’s birthplace.
他表示，国家监管机构曾对特朗普经营的一座赌场处以罚款，原因是它一再将黑人发牌者调离一层大厅。她还提醒听众注意特朗普对“身世论”的推崇，以及他对奥巴马总统出生地的质疑。
She recalled his opening salvo in the Republican primary, calling Mexican immigrants rapists and criminals when he announced his candidacy, and his more recent suggestion that a judge with a Mexican heritage could not be impartial in hearing a case involving Trump University.
她回顾了特朗普在共和党初选中的开场演说——在宣布参加竞选时称墨西哥移民是强奸犯和罪犯——以及更近一些时候，暗示一名有墨西哥血统的法官不可能在审理一起有关特朗普大学(Trump University)的案件时保持公正。
“This is someone who retweets white supremacists online,” Mrs. Clinton said, citing a posting by someone with the user name “WhiteGenocideTM. “Trump took this fringe bigot with a few dozen followers and spread his message to 11 million people.”
“这是一个在网上转发白人至上主义者推文的人，”克林顿说，拿名为“白人种族灭绝TM”(WhiteGenocideTM)的用户的一篇帖子举例。“特朗普将这个只有几十名关注者的边缘偏执者的信息进行转发，传播给了1100万人。”
By the end, Mrs. Clinton was quoting headlines from the Breitbart News website, which is overseen by Mr. Trump’s new campaign chief, Stephen K. Bannon.
最后，克林顿援引了布莱巴特新闻(Breitbart News)网站的一些新闻标题。这个网站的负责人史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)最近成了特朗普竞选团队的新任首席顾问。
“I’m not making this up,” she warned, before digging into the site’s archives: “Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy”; “‘Would You Rather Your Child Had Feminism or Cancer?’”; “Hoist It High and Proud: The Confederate Flag Proclaims a Glorious Heritage.”
“这些不是我编出来的，”她提醒道，之后开始列举那些文章标题：《节育让女人会让女人丑陋而疯狂》(Birth Control Makes Women Unattractive and Crazy)；《你宁愿孩子成为女权主义者，还是得癌症？》(Would You Rather Your Child Had Feminism or Cancer?)；《自豪地高举起来：邦联旗帜是光荣的遗产》(Hoist It High and Proud: The Confederate Flag Proclaims a Glorious Heritage)。
The address came a week after Mr. Trump hired Mr. Bannon, who has eagerly described the site as “the platform for the alt-right” — a loosely defined and contested term often associated with white nationalist and anti-immigrant sentiment.
就在克林顿发表这次演讲一周前，特朗普聘用了班农，后者一直热切地将这个网站描述为“另类右翼的平台”。另类右翼是一个松散而有争议的定义，通常与白人民族主义和反移民情绪有关。
“The de facto merger between Breitbart and the Trump campaign represents a landmark achievement for the alt-right,” Mrs. Clinton said.
“事实上，布莱巴特新闻和特朗普竞选团队的合并，是另类右翼取得的一项标志性成就，”克林顿说。
At a rally in Manchester, N.H., on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Trump offered a pre-emptive response to Mrs. Clinton’s speech, portraying her attacks as directed not only at him, but also at his many supporters.
在周四下午于新罕布什尔州曼彻斯特举行的一场集会活动上，特朗普对克林顿的演讲做出警告性的回应，称她攻击的不只是他，还有他的许多支持者。
“She lies, and she smears, and she paints decent Americans — you — as racists,” he said, motioning toward the crowd gathered at a hotel. “She bullies voters who only want a better future and tries to intimidate them out of voting for a change.”
“她撒谎，抹黑，把正派的美国人——你们——描绘成种族主义者，”他一边说，一边指向聚集在酒店里的听众。“她恐吓只想要一个更好的未来的选民，试图让他们害怕，不敢投票支持改变。”
He offered a pointed response to Mrs. Clinton and those “pushing her to spread smears and her lies about decent people.”
对克林顿及那些“推动她四处抹黑正派人士，说有关他们的谎言”的人，他做出了尖锐的回应。
“I have three words,” he said. “I want you to remember these three words: Shame on you.”
“我有三个字奉送，”他说。“希望你们能记住：真无耻。”
Mrs. Clinton’s pitch seemed aimed largely at moderate Republicans and other voters who have watched Mr. Trump’s attempts in recent days to soften his image.
克林顿的目标听众似乎主要是温和派共和党员，以及其他注意到特朗普最近几天在努力软化自己形象的选民。
“Trump is trying to rebrand himself,” she said. “Don’t be fooled.”
“特朗普在试图重塑自己的形象，”她说。“不要上当。”
She detailed explicit rejections of racist behavior from prominent Republicans in the past, like Bob Dole, George W. Bush and Senator John McCain of Arizona. And she defended the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, and Senator Ted Cruz, who had been attacked by Mr. Trump’s campaign.
她详述了一些共和党人在过去对种族主义行为做出的明确抵制，比如鲍勃·多尔(Bob Dole)、乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)，以及亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)。她也为众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和参议员泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)进行了辩护，这两人都曾遭到特朗普竞选团队的攻击。
Jason Miller, a spokesman for Mr. Trump, said that with her attacks, Mrs. Clinton was merely trying to direct attention away from her own controversies.
特朗普的发言人贾森·米勒(Jason Miller)表示，克林顿对特朗普进行抨击，只是想转移人们对她自身的争议的注意。
“Hillary Clinton’s attempt to delete the single worst week of her political career isn’t going to work,” he said, citing uproars over her private email server and the Clinton Foundation.
“希拉里·克林顿试图抹掉她政治生涯里最糟糕的一周，这是不会得逞的，”他说。他指的是围绕克林顿的私人邮件服务器和克林顿基金会产生的争议。
Mr. Trump’s recent efforts to moderate his tone, which have come in front of predominantly white audiences, have more than occasionally offended minority voters. Mr. Trump has said African-Americans live in neighborhoods resembling “war zones,” struggle to get by on food stamps and constantly face down errant gunfire.
特朗普最近努力软化自己的论调，但这些当着主要为白人的听众说的话，对少数族裔选民来说却往往是一种冒犯。特朗普曾说非裔美国人生活在仿佛“战区”的社区里，要靠食物优惠券挣扎过活，还要时不时面对呼啸的子弹。
“What do you have to lose?” he has asked.
“你们有什么可损失的？”他问道。
On Thursday, Mrs. Clinton offered her response: “The answer is everything.”
周四，克林顿对此给予了回应：“答案是，所有的一切。”