The topic of Hillary Clinton’s health, about which her opponent, Donald J. Trump, and his supporters have raised questions for months, was thrust into the center of the campaign on Sunday, after the Democratic nominee abruptly left a Sept. 11 memorial ceremony feeling ill. Her aides, who said when she left that she was “overheated,” later provided a doctor’s note saying that she received a diagnosis of pneumonia days earlier and had become dehydrated.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)及其支持者们提出有关希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)健康的问题已经几个月了。周日，在这位民主党候选人因感觉不适，突然离开了9·11纪念仪式后，该话题被推到了竞选活动的中心。克林顿的助手在她离开时说她感到身体“过热”，后来，助手提供了一个医生证明说，她几天前被诊断患有肺炎，当时出现了脱水。
Mrs. Clinton canceled a trip to California late Sunday night, and it remains to be seen how long she will be off the campaign trail.
克林顿取消了周日晚去加州的行程，她的竞选活动将中断多长时间仍有待观察。
But Mrs. Clinton, 68, and Mr. Trump, 70, are likely to face calls for far more detailed medical records than they have provided. In Mr. Trump’s case, the extent of his release so far has been a widely mocked doctor’s note consisting of a few lines and praise for his “strength and stamina.” Mr. Trump is also set to appear on an episode of “The Dr. Oz Show” this week to discuss his health.
但是，现年68岁的克林顿和现年70岁的特朗普很可能都会面临让他们提供更为详细的医疗记录的呼声。就特朗普而言，他所披露的健康情况至今仅限于一份被广泛嘲笑的医生证明，上面只有称赞他“力气和精力”的几句话。特朗普也将出现在本周的一期《奥兹医生秀》(The Dr. Oz Show)上，讨论自己的健康问题。
Mrs. Clinton, who sustained a concussion in December 2012 after becoming dehydrated, fainting and hitting her head on a toilet, learned she had pneumonia on Friday, according to the note from her doctor. She attended a fund-raiser later that night and went ahead with plans to attend the ground zero ceremony on Sunday. But she left earlier than planned, and aides said she was overheated. After videos emerged on Twitter of Mrs. Clinton leaning against a post to stand upright and nearly collapsing as she entered her van, her aides released the doctor’s note.
克林顿曾在2012年12月遭受过一次脑震荡，当时她因为脱水昏倒，头碰到了厕所马桶上，上周五，根据她的医生证明，她得知自己患了肺炎。那天晚上，她出席了一个筹款活动，并按计划参加了周日在9·11袭击发生地举行的纪念仪式。但她提前离开了，她的助手说，她感到身体过热。在Twitter上出现了克林顿倚靠着一根柱子才能站直，并且在进入她的面包车之前几乎摔倒的视频后，她的助手公布了医生证明。
Many of Mrs. Clinton’s supporters said privately that they believed she would have been criticized whatever path she chose. If she had skipped the ceremony, she risked feeding conspiracies about her health that Mr. Trump has helped fan. But by attending, she risked getting sicker. Pneumonia, particularly in people older than 65, can be challenging to recuperate from, and Mrs. Clinton continued to campaign despite her illness over the course of several days.
克林顿的许多支持者在私下表示，他们觉得无论她选择怎样做，都会受到批评。如果她选择不参加纪念仪式，她会冒下助长有关自己健康的阴谋论的风险，而特朗普在为这种阴谋论煽风点火。但是，参加纪念活动，她却冒下了让病情加重的风险。患肺炎后恢复健康可能有一定的挑战，特别是对65岁以上的人来说。尽管克林顿生了病，但她在过去几天里一直在继续竞选。
But most of those supporters also acknowledged that by not revealing she had pneumonia immediately after the sick spell Sunday morning, she had fed the perception that her campaign was secretive.
但那些支持者中的大多数也承认，由于她在周日上午因病离开后，没有马上透露自己患了肺炎，已经助长了让人觉得她的竞选班子隐瞒了什么的看法。
That perception has helped bring down Mrs. Clinton’s numbers in polling when voters are asked whether they see her as “honest and trustworthy.” The numbers began to sag in 2015 when her use of a private email server while she was the secretary of state became public.
当选民在民意调查中被问及他们是否认为克林顿“诚实且值得信任”时，这种看法已经在让她得到的票数有所下降。自从2015年公开了她在担任国务卿期间使用私人电子邮件服务器的事情后，她的得票数就开始下降。
Mr. Trump proved unusually restrained, lasting several hours without posting something referring to Mrs. Clinton’s illness on Twitter. It remains to be seen whether he can hold to that level of discipline as the week begins. In addition to not releasing his medical records, Mr. Trump, citing an audit he claims he is in the middle of, has declined to release his tax returns, and he has sought to avoid a number of other levels of scrutiny, a source of frustration for the Clinton campaign.
特朗普这次表现得异常克制，好几个小时都没有在Twitter上发有关克林顿疾病的帖子。随着这一周的开始，他能否持续这种水平的自律还有待观察。除了没有公布自己的详细健康情况之外，特朗普也一直拒绝公开他的纳税申报表，理由是他声称自己的纳税表正在接受审计，他还设法避免了一些其他层面的审查，让克林顿的竞选班子感到无奈。