Hillary Rodham Clinton said Wednesday that she understood why people had questions about her decision to use only private email while she was secretary of state and that she took responsibility for that decision, a shift from her past remarks about an issue that has dogged her since shortly before she began her presidential campaign.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)周三表示，她理解人们对于她在担任国务卿期间只使用私人邮箱办公的质疑，也表示为会当初的决定负责。与她之前有关此事的言论相比，这一论调有所转向。该事件在她开启总统竞选活动之前不久浮出水面，之后一直困扰着她。
Her remarks, made during a campaign stop in Iowa, came as Mrs. Clinton has faced growing criticism for making light of her email use, which Democrats fear has become an albatross on her hopes of winning the White House. “What, like with a cloth or something?” she said to a Fox News reporter last week who had asked whether she had “wiped,” or erased, her email server before turning it over to the F.B.I. recently.
克林顿在艾奥瓦州进行竞选宣传时发表了以上言论。此时，她因为对邮箱问题轻描淡写而面临越来越多的批评，民主党人担心这件事会成为她入主白宫之路上挥之不去的阴影。上周，Fox新闻台记者向她提问，在最近向联邦调查局提交邮件服务器之前是否已经“抹去”了上面的一些东西，克林顿当时的回应是，“你指什么，就像拿一块布或者别的什么来擦？”
“I know people have raised questions about my email use as secretary of state, and I understand why,” Mrs. Clinton said Wednesday. “I get it. So here’s what I want the American people to know: My use of personal email was allowed by the State Department. It clearly wasn’t the best choice. I should’ve used two emails: one personal, one for work.”
“我知道大家对我在担任国务卿期间的邮箱使用方式有疑问，也能理解其中的理由，”克林顿周三说道。“我明白。以下是我想对美国民众说的话：我使用私人邮箱的决定当时得到了国务院的批准。它显然不是最好的选择。我当时应该使用两个邮箱：一个为私人邮箱，一个做办公邮箱。”
She added: “I take responsibility for that decision, and I want to be as transparent as possible, which is why I turned over 55,000 pages, why I’ve turned over my server, why I’ve agreed to — in fact, been asking to — and have finally gotten a date to testify before a congressional committee in October.”
她还说道，“我为当初的决定负责，而且我想尽可能地对外界公开，因此提交了5万5千页的邮件资料，上交了服务器，并且已经同意——实际上是我一直在请求——也终于确定了一个日期，在10月份出席国会委员会的听证会。”
“I’m confident that this process will prove that I never sent, nor received, any email that was marked classified,” she said.
“我相信，这套程序将会证明我从未发送或接收任何标注为机密的邮件，”她说。
The inspector general for the nation’s intelligence agencies found that four emails out of a random sample of 40 of the tens of thousands on her server contained information that was classified, although it wasn’t marked that way at the time.
克林顿上交的服务器上有数万封邮件，在从中随机抽取的40封邮件中，情报机构的监察长发现有4封包含机密信息，尽管它们在当时并没有标注为机密。
Mrs. Clinton’s team has pointed to the subjective nature of the classification rules used by different federal agencies. Nonetheless, the topic has been a drag on her ratings in some polls.
克林顿的团队指出，各家联邦情报机构采用的归类标准带有各自的主观性。但是，一些民意调查显示，这一话题在拉低她的支持率。
She added that she was “going to keep talking about what the American people talk to me about, what’s on their minds, and to lay out my plans for what I would do as president to make the economy work for everybody, to make college affordable, to get the cost of drugs down, to get equal pay for equal work for women, and the whole suite of issues that I think are really at the core of this presidential campaign.”
她还表示，“将会继续就美国民众对我谈起的话题、他们关心的问题进行讨论，并对外发布未来当选总统后我将实施的各项计划，包括让经济发展惠及所有人、让人们负担得起上大学的费用、降低药品价格、为女性争取同工同酬，以及一系列我认为真正称得上这次总统竞选核心的议题。”