PHILADELPHIA — Bill Clinton does not know his way around a china pattern.
费城——比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)不怎么了解瓷器图案。
He is unlikely, friends said, to dwell on the trimmings of the White House Christmas tree.
朋友们说他不太会在白宫圣诞树的装饰问题上花多少心思。
And if he is still smooth at small talk when he must be, happy to riff on sports and science until the last guest has left, the staid ceremonial duties of a presidential spouse do not hold much appeal.
如果说他还是在必须的时候可以很好地闲聊，乐于不厌其烦地讨论体育和科学话题，直到最后一位客人离场，那么总统配偶那种一成不变的礼仪性职责对他就没有太大的吸引力了。
With this in mind, old family hands have gravitated toward a typical Clintonian solution should the former president find himself as first gentleman in 2017: Perhaps the first daughter could help.
有鉴于此，倘若这位前总统在2017年成为美国首位第一先生，老式家族的惯性会让他们倾向于采用典型的克林顿式解决办法：或许第一女儿能帮上忙。
Just as she assumed a lead role in her father’s foundation and became a chief campaign surrogate for her mother, Chelsea Clinton is willing to step up should her parents need her if they return to the White House, according to the former first daughter’s friends.
前任第一女儿切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)的友人透露，如果父母重返白宫，需要她的帮助，她会挺身而出，正如她在父亲的基金会担任了领导角色，又成为了母亲竞选活动重要的代理人。
The third partner in the family business of being Clintons, Chelsea Clinton’s bond to her parents, so familiar to Americans from her adolescence in the 1990s, will be on display once more on Thursday. One week after Ivanka Trump served as her father’s chief character witness at the Republican gathering in Cleveland, Clinton will introduce her mother at the convention inside the Wells Fargo Center, making the case for Hillary Clinton’s compassion and steady hand.
作为第三位加入家族生意的成员，切尔西·克林顿与父母的关系在90年代她还是少女的时候就为美国人所熟知。周四，这样的组合再次上演。在伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)在克利夫兰举行的共和党大会上担任父亲的首席品德见证人一周后，切尔西·克林顿在富国银行中心(Wells Fargo Center)内举办的民主党大会上介绍母亲出场，力证希拉里·克林顿的同情心和沉稳的领导能力。
“I am deeply biased toward my mother,” Chelsea Clinton said this week, flashing a coy smile at a panel event with the actresses Lena Dunham and America Ferrera. “I make no pretense to the contrary.”
“我特别偏爱我的母亲，”在本周举行一场大会讨论活动上，切尔西·克林顿一边不好意思地笑着一边表示，在场的还有演员莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)和亚美莉卡·费雷拉(America Ferrera)。“我不会假装不是。”
Hillary Clinton’s historic nomination has already scrambled the established political family order, compelling Bill Clinton on Tuesday night to deliver his own take on a traditional first spouse speech — a former president reveling in humanizing, if airbrushed, portraiture of a partner and a parent.
希拉里·克林顿历史性地获得总统提名，已经打乱了这个老牌政治家庭的秩序。周二晚上，比尔·克林顿不得不进行传统第一配偶的演讲——这位前总统陶醉于以人性化——如果说可能有些美化的话——的笔触描绘希拉里作为伴侣和家长的表现。
Clinton advisers say that Chelsea Clinton’s influence and involvement in a prospective administration have not been given much thought. But they also say that she is likely to lend a hand around major events and holidays, at least by phone and email, and to help her father with some of the traditional duties of a president’s spouse.
克林顿的顾问表示，他们还没有仔细考虑切尔西·克林顿对未来政府施加的影响，或是以何种方式参与其中。不过他们也表示，她很可能在重大活动和节假日期间帮忙，至少会打电话和发邮件，以及帮父亲承担一些总统配偶需要承担的传统责任。
“She has a deep bond with them and she knows that she can be a lot of help to them if they return to the White House,” said Thomas F. (Mack) McLarty III, a close friend of the Clintons and a former chief of staff to Bill Clinton. “Chelsea is so substantive, and has two young children, that I don’t see her playing White House social secretary. But I do think she will chip in to help her father and mother with managing life in the White House.”
“她和他们感情很深，她知道如果父母重返白宫，她可以帮不少忙，”与克林顿一家关系密切、曾任比尔·克林顿幕僚长的托马斯·F·麦克拉蒂三世(Thomas F. McLarty III)说。“切尔西非常独立，还要养育两个年幼的孩子，我觉得她不会扮演白宫社交秘书的角色。但我想她会间或来白宫帮父母打理生活事务。”
Given that the spousal role often comes down to what the person makes of it, Bill Clinton has some freedom to rethink the job, and Hillary Clinton has signaled that she would want him to play a policy role. But the Clintons are also sensitive to not giving short shrift to the influence that first ladies have had, and advisers to the couple say that the three Clintons, as a family, will discuss ways to carry out that role.
考虑到配偶角色往往是由本人造就的，比尔·克林顿其实有一些重新考量该职位的余地。希拉里·克林顿释放出的信号表明，她希望他在政策方面发挥作用。不过，克林顿一家也足够审慎，不会将第一夫人们惯常施加的影响抛诸脑后。这对夫妇的顾问表示，克林顿一家将商讨出履行这一职责的办法。
But any suggestion that Chelsea Clinton might be relied upon to perform traditional first lady tasks has the potential to strike a nerve, prompting concerns about an overly gendered view of presidential family roles.
不过，任何有关他们也许会依赖切尔西·克林顿履行传统第一夫人职责的说法，都有可能触及痛处，引发对过度强调总统家庭角色性别差异的担忧。
And such a role might seem incongruent with her graduate degrees from Oxford and Columbia and her career in business consulting and nonprofit management. But friends of Chelsea Clinton say she would never be offended if her parents asked her for help. Her mother, after all, was a Yale Law School star and accomplished lawyer when she threw herself into the role of first lady in the 1990s.
这样的角色似乎与切尔西·克林顿的牛津与哥伦比亚学历、与她在企业咨询和非营利机构管理领域的职业发展并不匹配。不过，她的朋友表示，如果父母请她帮忙，她绝不会感到冒犯。毕竟，她母亲在90年代全身心投入第一夫人这一角色时，是耶鲁法学院的明星人物，是一位富有成就的律师。
On Tuesday night, perched in a box beside her husband since 2010, Marc Mezvinsky, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Chelsea Clinton choked up throughout her father’s speech. He recalled the evening of her birth, the time they watched a “Police Academy” marathon together, the day he dropped her off at college (Stanford) as Hillary Clinton spread liner paper across a drawer.
周二晚上，在父亲演讲期间，切尔西·克林顿一直在哽咽。她坐在包厢里，两旁分别是2010年成婚的丈夫马克·梅兹文斯基(Marc Mezvinsky)和参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)。比尔·克林顿回忆了女儿出生的那个夜晚，回忆他们一口气看完《警察学校》(Police Academy)，还有他开车送女儿上大学（斯坦福）、希拉里·克林顿往抽屉里铺纸的场景。
On Wednesday, the younger Clinton held forth on gay rights and voter outreach at a lunch for the Human Rights Campaign, earning two standing ovations and telling the crowd that she had been straining to suppress tears all week.
周三，在“人权运动”组织(Human Rights Campaign)举办的一场午宴上，切尔西·克林顿大谈同性恋权益和选民覆盖，期间赢得在场观众两次长时间的起立鼓掌。她还告诉听众，这一周她一直在强忍自己的泪水。
An attendee, John Klenert, said he had watched Chelsea Clinton grow up. He “felt sorry for her” in her youth, he said, marveling at her evolution now.
出席该活动的约翰·克勒纳特(John Klenert)表示，他是看着切尔西·克林顿长大的。他说，在她年轻的时候，自己“为她感到惋惜”，现在则为她的变化惊叹不已。
And he chafed, unprompted, at grumblings that Chelsea Clinton should assist her mother in social affairs.
对于切尔西·克林顿应该在社交事务上协助母亲的闲言碎语，他不由自主地感到恼火。
“It’s an insult,” he said. “If and when Hillary is in the White House, she can hire somebody.”
“那是一种侮辱，”他说。“如果希拉里届时入主白宫，她可以雇人。”