WASHINGTON — When the House select committee investigating the 2012 attacks on U.S. government outposts in Benghazi, Libya, was created, Democrats immediately criticized it as a partisan effort to damage the political fortunes of Hillary Rodham Clinton.
华盛顿——负责调查2012年美国在利比亚班加西的外交人员驻地被袭事件的众议院特别委员会刚成立时，就曾被民主党人士指责为意图打击希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)政治前途的党派行为。
But Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., the former federal prosecutor who is the committee's chairman, told Fox News at the time: “I have no friends to reward and no foes to punish. We're going to go wherever the facts take us.”
但该特别委员会主席、曾担任联邦检察官的南卡罗来纳州共和党众议员特雷·高迪(Trey Gowdy)当时接受福克斯新闻台采访时表示：“我没什么需要报恩的朋友，也没有要惩罚的敌人。我们只会跟随事实指引的方向，不管它指向哪里。”
Now, 17 months later — longer than the Watergate investigation lasted — interviews with current and former committee staff members, as well as internal committee documents reviewed by The New York Times, show the extent to which the focus of the committee's work has shifted from the circumstances surrounding the Benghazi attack to the politically charged issue of Clinton's use of a private email server while she was secretary of state.
如今，比水门事件调查时间还要长的17个月已经过去，《纽约时报》采访了特别委员会的几位现任和前任成员，并查阅了一些委员会内部文件，之后发现，该委员会的工作重心已经从了解与班加西袭击有关的情况，大幅偏离到克林顿在担任国务卿期间使用私人邮箱服务器这一极具政治色彩的事件。
A committee with a stated, initial goal of learning more about how four Americans, including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, were killed in Libya has created a political whirlwind in Washington, affecting not only Clinton's presidential campaign, but now also the race for House speaker. Clinton is scheduled to testify in front of the committee on Oct. 22.
该委员会最初有着十分明确的目标，即更多地了解包括J·克里斯托弗·史蒂文斯(J. Christopher Stevens)大使在内的四名美国人如何在利比亚遇害，如今它却在华盛顿制造了一股政治旋风，不仅影响克林顿的总统竞选，还波及众议院议长一职的竞逐。克林顿将在10月22日在该委员会作证。
The committee has conducted only one of a dozen interviews that Gowdy, in February, said he planned to hold with prominent intelligence, Defense Department and White House officials, and it has held none of the nine public hearings — with titles such as “Why Were We in Libya?” — that internal documents show have been proposed.
今年2月，高迪曾表示，他计划对重要情报机构、国防部和白宫的一些官员展开十几场约谈会，内部文件显示他们也曾提出，要举行“我们为什么去利比亚？”等九场公开听证会，结果约谈会只进行了一场，听证会则一场也没有。
At the same time, the committee has added at least 18 current and former State Department officials to its roster of witnesses, including three speechwriters and an information technology specialist who maintained Clinton's private email server.
与此同时，该委员会却将至少18名现任和前任国务院官员加入了它的证人名单，其中包括三名演讲稿撰写人和一名信息技术专家，后者曾负责维护克林顿的私人邮箱服务器。
Top Republican aides on the select committee dispute any suggestion that their inquiry, which has cost more than $4.5 million, has been partisan or ineffective or that it changed course. They say that although seven other congressional committees have examined the attacks, the select committee has been able to unearth new information on Benghazi because, unlike the other committees, it has a mandate to look across multiple agencies and see the “entire elephant,” as Dana Chipman, the select committee's chief counsel, put it.
该委员会中位置最高的几位共和党助手，否认这项已经耗费450万美元资金的质询行动是党派行为，也不认为这些行动无效，或偏离了方向。他们表示，尽管其他七个国会委员会也对这些袭击行动进行了调查，但特别委员会能发掘出有关班加西事件的新信息，因为它与其他委员会不同，用该委员会首席法律顾问达纳·奇普曼(Dana Chipman)的话说，它获得授权，可以向多个机构了解信息，能看到事情的“全貌”。
The committee's focus on Clinton's email, a Republican spokesman said, is a required part of the investigation into what happened in Libya. “Secretary Clinton's unusual email arrangement with herself has only made it more difficult for the committee to ensure the public record with respect to Libya and Benghazi is complete,” the spokesman, Jamal Ware, said in a statement Sunday.
一名共和党发言人表示，该委员会将注意力放在克林顿邮件问题上的做法，对了解当时在利比亚发生的事件，是必不可少的。“克林顿自己所做的不同寻常的邮件使用安排，却让委员会更加难以获得完整的有关利比亚和班加西的公开记录，”发言人贾迈勒·韦尔(Jamal Ware)周日在一份声明中表示。
Republican committee members and staff members said they had interviewed more than 40 people who were never deposed by congressional investigators for other committees — a tally disputed by Democrats.
该委员会的共和党成员和工作人员表示，他们已经询问了40名不曾被其他委员会的国会调查人员传唤作证的人士，民主党人对这个数字表示怀疑。
In an interview last week, Gowdy defended the committee's work on Benghazi and said that only two of the people interviewed by the committee were related to Clinton's email. He said that at one point in the spring he told Speaker John Boehner that he feared the task of investigating the email issue would distract from his committee's work. Now, as the committee prepares to question Clinton next week, what Gowdy feared as a distraction has led to accusations of bias from a former staff member.
上周接受采访时，高迪为该委员会就班加西事件所做的工作进行了辩护，他表示在委员会所传讯的人员中，只有两名与克林顿的邮件问题有关联。他还表示，今年春天他曾向约翰·博纳议长(Speaker John Boehner)表达自己的担忧，他担心调查邮件问题的任务会影响委员会的工作。而就在委员会准备于下周对克林顿进行质询之时，高迪之前担心会让委员会分心的事，却成为其前工作人员指责它有所偏向的理由。
Maj. Bradley F. Podliska, an Air Force Reserve officer who began working for the Republican staff of the committee in September 2014 but has since been terminated, said in an interview that the panel changed its focus this spring, shortly after staff members learned that Clinton had exclusively used a private email account as secretary of state, including during the Benghazi attacks. Podliska was dismissed by the committee in June, and he has said he plans to file a complaint in federal court about his termination.
空军预备役军官布拉德利·F·波德利斯卡少校(Maj. Bradley F. Podliska)从2014年9月开始为该委员会的共和党工作人员效力，后被解雇，他在接受采访时表示，该委员会在今年春天改变了其工作重点，当时距离委员会工作成员得知克林顿在担任国务卿期间——包括班加西袭击事件发生时——只使用私人邮箱账户一事没多久。波德利斯卡在今年6月被辞退，他表示计划就被辞退一事向联邦法院提交诉状。
Podliska described an odd encounter with one of his bosses in April.
波德利斯卡描述了今年4月他与一位上司之间进行的不太寻常的对话。
“Keep your head down,” Podliska said, recalling what Christopher Donesa, the committee's deputy staff director, had told him after praising his progress. Donesa paused for a moment, according to Podliska, then added, “This is taking a turn.”
“你要保持低调，”波德利斯卡说，他记得该委员会员工副主任克里斯托弗·多内萨(Christopher Donesa)当时对他取得的进步进行表扬之后这样讲道。据波德利斯卡说，多内萨停顿了一会，然后接着说，“现在情况有所变化。”
Podliska said the committee was becoming focused primarily on the State Department and in particular on Clinton.
波德利斯卡表示，委员会正将其注意力主要放在针对国务院，尤其是有关克林顿的调查上。
Republican staff members said Podliska had been dismissed by the committee in part because he had demonstrated “improper partiality and animus in his investigative work” toward Clinton and had mishandled classified material, which Podliska disputes.
该委员会中几名共和党工作人员表示，波德利斯卡之所以被解雇，部分原因是，在调查工作中，他对克林顿表现出“不恰当的偏颇与敌意”，而且他对机密材料的处理有误，对此波德利斯卡予以否认。
But for months, documents and interviews show, the work of the Benghazi committee has been affected by delays and dysfunction.
但几个月来《纽约时报》查阅的各种文件和进行的采访显示，班加西袭击事件特别委员会的工作的确已经因延误和工作混乱而受到影响。
The process of setting up an electronic system to manage more than 50,000 pages of documents the committee has assembled is still not complete, meaning staff members sometimes have to search through boxes to find critical pieces of paper — an almost comical task, staff members said.
创建电子系统来管理委员会搜集的5万多页文件的工作仍未完成，这意味着工作人员有时需要从盒子里翻找重要文件。他们表示，这可以算是一项十分滑稽的任务。
They have spent months sparring with Obama administration agencies trying to get documents, eating up time the committee had planned to use investigating the attacks.
他们花了几个月来与奥巴马政府的各大机构周旋，以便获取文件，而这占用了委员会计划用于调查袭击事件的时间。
With the slow progress, members have engaged in social activities like a wine club nicknamed “Wine Wednesdays,” drinking from glasses imprinted with the words “Glacial Pace,” a dig at Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and the committee's ranking member, Podliska said. Cummings used the term to question the speed of the committee's work.
波德利斯卡表示，由于进程缓慢，成员们纷纷参与社交活动，比如组建了一个绰号为“葡萄酒周三”(Wine Wednesdays)的饮酒俱乐部，端着印有“冰川移动般的步伐”字样的酒杯来喝。这个词是对来自马里兰州的民主党众议员、该委员会资深成员伊莱贾·卡明斯(Elijah Cummings)的挖苦。卡明斯曾用它来质疑委员会的工作速度。
At one point, several Republican staffers formed a gun-buying club and discussed in the committee's conference room the 9-millimeter Glock handguns they intended to purchase and what type of monograms they would inscribe on them, Podliska said.
波德利斯卡表示，几名共和党工作人员一度成立了一个购枪俱乐部，并在委员会的会议室里讨论他们打算购买的9毫米口径的格洛克手枪，以及他们会在枪上刻写哪种字母图案。
The documents do show that since the March revelations about Clinton's email server, the committee has continued to interview officials outside the State Department. Since then 10 intelligence officials — including CIA operatives who were on the ground in Benghazi — and four from the Defense Department have been interviewed.
资料的确显示，自3月克林顿电子邮件服务器事件曝光以来，该委员会一直在询问国务院以外的官员。此后，有10名情报官员——包括在班加西的CIA特工——及四名国防部官员接受了询问。
But an approximate tally produced by the Democratic minority staff shows that the committee has so far followed up with only a third of the potential witnesses from the intelligence community, none of the six from the White House and less than half from the Defense Department. Meanwhile, more than 70 percent of the potential witnesses from the State Department have been interviewed.
不过，少数党民主党的工作人员所做的大概统计显示，委员会到目前为止只跟进了来自情报机构的三分之一的潜在证人，六名白宫官员均没有继续受到询问，跟进的国防部官员不到一半。与此同时，来自国务院的70%的潜在证人接受了询问。
Late last month, preserving the investigation's credibility became more difficult when Rep. Kevin McCarthy, the House majority leader, inadvertently offered corroboration of Democrats' suspicions.
上个月底，维护调查可信度变得更加困难，因为众议院多数党领袖凯文·麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)无意间为民主党人的怀疑提供了验证。
“Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right?” he said on Fox News. “But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping.” McCarthy subsequently withdrew his candidacy for House speaker, citing in part the uproar over those comments.
“每个人都认为希拉里·克里顿是不可战胜的，对吧？”他在Fox新闻频道上表示。“但我们组成了班加西特别委员会，一个专责委员会。她现在的支持率如何？她的支持率在猛降。”麦卡锡后来放弃了众议院议长候选人资格，将此番言论引起的争议引为部分理由。
Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., a member of the Benghazi committee, effectively agreed with McCarthy's assessment. He has called for the committee to disband.
来自加州的民主党众议员、班加西委员会成员亚当·席夫(Adam Schiff)基本同意麦卡锡的评价。他呼吁委员会解散。
“Clearly, the committee's true interest was not in providing new answers or information about the Benghazi attacks, but in damaging Secretary Clinton,” Schiff said.
席夫表示，“很明显，委员会真正的兴趣不在于提供有关班加西袭击事件的新答案或信息，而是在于毁掉希拉里·克林顿。”
Republican staff members and Gowdy said they were confident they had made important progress in understanding what had happened in Benghazi.
民主党工作人员和高迪表示，他们相信自己在了解班加西真相方面取得了重要进展。
Tentative findings, they said, include new details that might undercut Defense Department assertions that nothing could have been done in time to save Stevens and the others. They added that those details would be made public at the end of the inquiry.
他们表示，初步发现包括一些新细节，而这些细节可能会削弱国防部的论断，即根本无法及时采取举措来救史蒂文斯和其他人。他们还称，这些细节将在调查结束后公之于众。