Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders clashed vividly over immigration reform and deportations during a contentious debate in Miami on Wednesday night. The two Democrats made aggressive appeals to Hispanic voters while also presenting themselves as the strongest candidate against Donald J. Trump, the Republican front-runner, in the general election.
周三晚上，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在迈阿密的一场辩论中围绕移民改革和驱逐议题上演了一场唇枪舌战。在极力争取西语裔选民的同时，同属民主党的两人都把自己塑造成最有实力在大选中与领先的共和党候选人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)对抗的人选。
Clinton, bruised by her surprise loss in the Michigan primary a day earlier, relentlessly attacked Sanders for opposing a 2007 bill that would have created a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants in the country illegally. Aiming her remarks at the large Hispanic audience watching on Univision, a Spanish-language sponsor of the debate, Clinton portrayed herself as a defender of immigrant parents and children and argued that Sanders was not a fighter on the issue.
克林顿因一天前在密歇根州的初选中意外失利而受挫，当晚猛烈攻击桑德斯反对2007年的一项议案。那项议案本会为成百上千万非法待在美国的移民取得公民身份开辟一条道路。克林顿的话都是说给通过Univision电视台观看辩论的大批西语裔观众听的。Univision是一个西班牙语平台，为此次辩论的赞助方。她把自己描述成移民父母和孩子的捍卫者，并宣称在这个问题上桑德斯并不是一名斗士。
She refused to let up when Sanders explained that he thought the guest worker provisions in the bill were “akin to slavery.” Clinton argued that she, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and Hispanic groups would never have supported such a bill. Her broadsides finally became too much for Sanders when she accused him of supporting “vigilantes known as Minutemen who were taking up outposts along the border to hunt down immigrants.”
当桑德斯解释自己认为议案中的客工条款“类似于奴隶制”时，克林顿依然不依不饶。她表示，果真如此的话，它绝不会得到自己、爱德华·M·肯尼迪参议员(Edward M. Kennedy)和西语裔团体的拥护。最后，当她指责桑德斯支持“又名‘一分钟人’(Minutemen)的联防队员沿着边境设置哨所，追捕移民”时，桑德斯实在按捺不住了。
“No, I do not support vigilantes — that is a horrific statement, an unfair statement to make,” Sanders said. “Madam Secretary, I will match my record against yours any day of the week.”
“不是的，我不支持联防队员。这个说法太过分了，很不公平，”桑德斯说。“国务卿女士，我任何时候都不怕把自己的记录拿出来跟你的比较。”
In their final debate before major primaries in Florida, Ohio and other states Tuesday, the two Democrats were a study in contrasts as they made stark appeals to the demographic groups that they have come to prize. Clinton stuck to her promise to “knock down barriers” in employment and housing and to champion criminal justice reform and Social Security, hoping these priorities would inspire Hispanics, African-Americans and senior citizens and deliver her landslide victories in Florida and North Carolina.
佛罗里达州、俄亥俄州和其他几个州将于下周二举行初选。周三晚上是这几场主要初选前的最后一次民主党辩论。在辩论中，两人向自己重视的群体示好的方式截然不同，形成了鲜明对比。克林顿重申要在就业和住房方面“消除障碍”，并支持刑事司法改革和社会福利保障，希望自己的这些首要议程能鼓舞西语裔、非裔和老年人，帮助她在佛罗里达州和北卡罗来纳州取得压倒性的胜利。
Sanders' rallying cries against the “rigged economy” and “establishment politics” were aimed at liberals, young people, working-class white voters and independents who could be decisive for him in Ohio, Illinois and Missouri, his top targets next week.
桑德斯则对“受操纵的经济”和“建制派把持的政治”发出了疾呼，意在争取自由派、年轻人、白人工薪阶层和独立派。在俄亥俄、伊利诺伊和密苏里，这些群体可能会对桑德斯起到决定性的作用。下周，这三个州将是他的首要目标。