Hillary Rodham Clinton acknowledged on Tuesday that her use of a private email server while she was secretary of state was a “mistake,” and apologized directly for it, uttering words that many of her allies have waited to hear from her in hopes that she can quell a controversy that has dogged her presidential candidacy for months.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)本周二承认，她在担任国务卿期间使用私人电子邮件服务器是一个“错误”，并直接为此进行了道歉。很多盟友在等待她说出这番话，希望此举能平息已经困扰了她的总统竞选活动好几个月的争论。
“That was a mistake. I’m sorry about that. I take responsibility,” Mrs. Clinton said in an interview with David Muir of ABC News broadcast Tuesday evening. “And I’m trying to be as transparent as I possibly can.”
“这是一个错误。我感到很抱歉。我负有责任，”本周二晚上，克林顿在接受ABC新闻频道的戴维·缪尔(David Muir)采访时说。“我会努力提供尽可能大的透明度。”
Asked by Mr. Muir about a recent poll in which respondents used words like “liar” and “untrustworthy” to describe her, Mrs. Clinton conceded that she still had work to do: “Obviously, David, I don’t like hearing that,” she said. “I am confident by the end of this campaign, people will know they can trust me, and that I will be on their side and I will fight for them and their families. But I do think I could have and should have done a better job answering questions earlier. I really didn’t, perhaps, appreciate the need to do that.”
缪尔问她，在最近的民意调查中，受访者使用像“骗子”和“不值得信任”这样的词汇来形容她，她对此有何想法。克林顿承认，她仍然有工作要做：“很显然，戴维，我不喜欢听到被人们那么说，”她说。“我相信，这次竞选活动结束时，大家会明白他们可以信任我，我会站在他们一边，我将为他们和他们的家人而战。但我确实认为，如果我更早一点回答这些问题会更好。可能我之前真的没有意识到有必要那么做。”
When asked if she had ever second-guessed her decision to make another run at the White House, Mrs. Clinton began to choke up, admitting that she had, at times, before invoking her late mother’s admonitions to “fight for what you believe in, no matter how hard it is.”
当缪尔问她，是否怀疑过自己再次角逐白宫的决定时，克林顿开始哽咽起来，承认确实有过，之后她说已故的母亲劝告她去“争取你相信的东西，无论多么艰难”。
“I think about her a lot. I miss her a lot. I wish she were here with me,” Mrs. Clinton said, tearing up. But, she added: “I don’t want to just fight for me. I mean, I could have a perfectly fine life not being president. I want to fight for all the people like my mother who need somebody in their corner. And they need a leader who cares about them again. So that’s what I’m going to try to do.”
“我常常想起她，很思念她。我希望她此际能在我身边，”克林顿含着泪说。但是，她接下来表示：“我不想只为自己而战。我的意思是，我不当总统也会过得非常好。我要像为我的母亲那样的人而战。他们需要有个人站在他们的立场上，他们需要一个领导者，能够重新予以他们关心。所以，这就是我要尝试去做的。”
Mrs. Clinton’s apology on ABC was the more striking for coming just a day after an interview with The Associated Press in which she maintained that she did not need to apologize for her private email account and server, saying, “What I did was allowed.”
就在一天之前，在接受美联社(The Associated Press)采访时，克林顿还坚称她认为自己没有必要为私人邮件帐户和服务器的事道歉。当时她说：“我做的事情是允许的。”因而一天之后她在ABC电视台上的道歉就显得更为惊人。
And in an interview with NBC News last Friday, Mrs. Clinton, asked if she was sorry, allowed only that she was “sorry that this has been confusing to people and has raised a lot of questions.”
上周五接受NBC新闻频道采访时，当被问及她是否感到后悔，克林顿仅仅表示自己“感到遗憾，因为这让很多人迷惑不解，还引发了大量问题”。
Privately, some of Mrs. Clinton’s allies have drawn comparisons between her resistance to using the word “mistake” over the email server and her similar reluctance to say she had erred in voting as a senator to support the invasion of Iraq. That vote dogged her in the 2008 presidential primary, but Mrs. Clinton resisted calling it a mistake, despite entreaties from many liberals and some of her own aides.
克林顿的一些盟友私下表示，她不愿在邮件服务器一事上说出“错误”二字，就像她当年不愿承认在担任参议员期间投票支持出兵伊拉克上犯了错一样。那拖累了她2008年的总统初选，但克林顿拒绝称其为错误，尽管很多自由派人士和她自己的部分幕僚恳求她那么做。
Only in her 2014 memoir, “Hard Choices,” did Mrs. Clinton say she had “got it wrong” on the Iraq invasion.
直到2014年在回忆录《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)中，克林顿才表示自己在出兵伊拉克一事上“犯了错”。
“In our political culture, saying you made a mistake is often taken as weakness when in fact it can be a sign of strength and growth for people and nations,” Mrs. Clinton wrote.
“在我们的政治文化中，承认自己犯了错往往被视为软弱，而实际上对于公众和国家来说，它可以是一种代表强大和成长的标志，”克林顿写道。
“I thought I had acted in good faith and made the best decision I could with the information I had. And I wasn’t alone in getting it wrong,” she wrote. “But I still got it wrong. Plain and simple.”
“我以为，当时我利用了手头上的所有信息，心怀善意，做出了最好的决定。而且犯错的也不只我一个人，“她写道。“但我还是犯了错。就这么简单。”
In recent weeks, some advisers had privately expressed hope that Mrs. Clinton would acknowledge a mistake on her email practices in similarly clear and blunt terms.
最近几周，一些顾问私下表示，希望克林顿可以用同样清晰直白的措辞，承认她在电邮事件上犯了错。
But others on her team, saying they were bound by the constraints of a complex situation, with several investigations under way, argued that Mrs. Clinton was limited in her ability to defend herself.
不过，她团队中的其他人表示克林顿为自己辩护的能力有限，称在多项调查正在进行的情况下，相关做法是受了复杂情况的限制。
For her part, Mrs. Clinton had long insisted that the controversy was a news media fixation that voters had not raised with her on the campaign trail. At a Democratic dinner in Iowa last month, she even made light of it, with a joke about the iPhone application “Snapchat,” whose pictures delete themselves. And a few days later, when a Fox News reporter asked if she had wiped her server of data, Mrs. Clinton quipped, “What, like with a cloth or something?”
长期以来，克林顿本人一直坚称只有新闻媒体沉迷于这场争议，而在竞选过程中，选民们并未和自己提及此事。上月，在艾奥瓦州的一次民主党晚宴上，克林顿甚至通过一个笑话对此事表现出了不甚在意的态度。那个笑话是关于能自动删除照片的iPhone应用Snapchat的。几天后，Fox新闻频道的一名记者问克林顿是否抹掉了服务器上的数据，她俏皮地回答，“什么，像抹布之类的吗？”
Mrs. Clinton, who has said that she broke no rules and is trying to be as transparent as possible, turned over some 55,000 pages of emails to the State Department, which is reviewing them to comply with freedom-of-information lawsuits. She has said she deleted the remaining 31,000, which she deemed not work-related.
克林顿声称自己并未违反任何规定，正在努力做到尽量透明。她将大约5.5万页电子邮件移交给了国务院。后者正在对其进行检查，以确定是否适用于信息自由诉讼。克林顿称已经删除了自认为和工作无关的剩下3.1万页邮件。
But the email controversy has stayed in the headlines, with fresh reports about whether Mrs. Clinton’s server contained classified information, the F.B.I.’s taking possession of the server to ensure its security, and the decision by the technician who maintained the server for Mrs. Clinton to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination. (She says no material she sent or received was marked classified at the time.)
然而，电邮争议仍占据了新闻头条，不断有新出炉的报道，内容包括对克林顿的服务器上是否有机密信息的质疑、联邦调查局(FBI)接手服务器以确保其安全，以及为克林顿维护服务器的那名技术人员决定援引宪法第五修正案赋予的不能自证其罪的权利。（克林顿说她发出和接收的材料中，没有当时被标记为机密的内容。）
In recent days, Mrs. Clinton’s aides have signaled that she planned to address the email controversy more openly, and with a tone of humility rather than defensiveness.
最近几天，克林顿的幕僚传达出的信号是，她打算以一种谦逊而非辩解的口吻，更加公开地处理电子邮件争议。
In an Aug. 26 news conference, she said she understood why people had questions about the email arrangement, which she said came about as a matter of convenience so she could carry only a single mobile device. She said she took “responsibility” for the decision to use the private server and said it would have been better to have used a private email only for personal matters and an official one for work.
在8月26日的新闻发布会上，她说自己理解人们为什么对有关电子邮件的安排有疑问。她自称那样的安排是为了方便，这样她就只用携带一台移动设备了。她说自己为使用私人服务器的决定“负责”，并表示只用私人邮箱处理私事、用正式邮箱处理公务的做法会更好。
Last week, Mrs. Clinton’s aides showed a video of that news conference to a New Hampshire focus group of independents and Democrats, according to a Democrat briefed on the focus group whose account was confirmed by a person in her campaign. Participants said they wanted to hear more from Mrs. Clinton about the issue.
上周，克林顿的幕僚展示了一段视频，内容是那次新闻发布会。这次展示面向的是新罕布什尔州一个由独立人士和民主党人组成的焦点小组。这个说法来自了解该焦点小组的一名民主党人，并得到了克林顿竞选团队里的一名成员的证实。参与者表示希望听到克林顿对此事有更多的解释。