Senator Bernie Sanders said on Tuesday that his presidential campaign would carry on despite losses in three states and the prospect of a stinging defeat in California, telling a raucous crowd of supporters that “we will continue to fight for every vote and every delegate.”
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)赢得加州初选。参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)周二表示，尽管在三个州的初选中失利，他的竞选活动将继续进行。桑德斯对支持者说，“我们将继续为每一票、每一个代表席位而战。”
Hillary Clinton claimed the Democratic presidential nomination on Tuesday night with a crushing victory in the New Jersey primary, and quickly appealed to supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont to unite with her against Donald J. Trump.
周二，克林顿在新泽西州初选中压倒性地获胜，宣布自己赢得民主党总统候选人提名。她随即呼吁佛蒙特州参议员桑德斯的支持者和自己团结起来，共同对付唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。
She took the stage with her hands clasped over her heart in gratitude, threw her arms open in joy and savored a long moment as a jubilant crowd waved American flags and chanted “Hillary.” “Tonight caps an amazing journey — a long, long journey,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We all owe so much to those who came before, and tonight belongs to all of you.”
上台讲话时，克林顿双手紧握在胸前以表达感激，然后在喜悦之中向欢腾的人群敞开双臂，享受着这样的时刻。人们挥舞着美国国旗，反复呼喊“希拉里”。“今晚，一段不可思议而又无比漫长的旅程告一段落了，”克林顿说。“我们都应对前人深表感谢，今夜属于你们所有人。”
She praised Mr. Sanders and his passionate supporters, saying that “vigorous debate” had been “very good for the Democratic Party and America.”
她赞扬了桑德斯，以及桑德斯富有激情的支持者，称“激烈的辩论”对“美国和民主党来说非常有益。”
Mr. Sanders made plans to lay off most of his campaign staff, yet he appeared reluctant to go quietly or quickly after months of political warfare against a Clinton machine that he holds in thinly veiled contempt. With six states voting Tuesday, Sanders was holding out hope for a huge upset in the California primary to justify staying in the race and lobbying Democratic officials to support him in a contested convention next month.
桑德斯计划解雇自己的大部分竞选工作人员，但在与克林顿机器——桑德斯并未过多地掩饰自己对前者的鄙夷——斗争数月之后，桑德斯似乎不愿静静离开，也不想很快消失。周二有六个州投票。桑德斯还抱着一线希望，期待自己在加州初选中出人意料地获得胜利，好让他有理由继续参与竞争，并劝说民主党官员支持他下个月在形势不明的民主党大会上进行角逐。
Mr. Sanders won the North Dakota caucuses on Tuesday; Montana, New Mexico and South Dakota also held Democratic contests. Republicans voted in several states, although Mr. Trump became the presumptive nominee in early May.
桑德斯在北达科他州预选会中获胜，蒙大拿、新墨西哥和南达科塔他也举行了初选。共和党同样在几个州进行了投票，不过特朗普在5月初就已经成为稳获提名的候选人。
As Clinton sought to turn her attention to the general election, Trump was busy reckoning with problems of his own making. His criticism of a federal judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel, for his Mexican heritage continued to inflict damage on his campaign, as the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, called Trump’s remarks racist and other Republicans piled on criticism. One Republican senator rescinded his endorsement.
在克林顿试图将注意力转向大选之时，特朗普则在忙着应对自己造成的一些问题。特朗普因联邦法官贡萨洛·P·库列尔(Gonzalo P. Curiel)的墨西哥血统而对他进行的指责，持续给自己的竞选带来伤害。众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)称特朗普的言论是种族歧视，其他一些共和党人也纷纷予以批评。一名共和党参议员撤销了对特朗普的正式支持。
Although Tuesday had promised to be a watershed moment in the race, it proved anticlimactic after AP reported Monday night that Clinton had secured enough delegates to clinch the party’s nomination.
尽管周二原本该是竞选的一个分水岭，但它并未掀起巨大的波澜。前一天晚上，美联社报道，克林顿获得了足够多的代表支持，已将民主党提名收入囊中。
Sanders advisers were on edge over the declaration that Clinton had locked up the nomination, worried that it would depress voter turnout in California. And Sanders told NBC on Tuesday evening that he was “upset” and “disappointed” that AP had made its call based on a survey of superdelegates.
桑德斯的顾问对克林顿锁定提名资格的报道颇为不安，担心这会抑制加州选民的投票率。周二傍晚，桑德斯向NBC记者表示，美联社基于对超级代表的意向调查就做出这样的判断，令他感到“不满”和“失望”。
Sanders, in the NBC interview, said that his aides were “on the phone right now” with superdelegates, including those supporting Clinton. His campaign also sent an email late Tuesday to supporters asking them to commit to vote for him in the final Democratic primary, in Washington, D.C., next Tuesday — an indication that Sanders was not calling it quits just yet.
在接受NBC采访时，桑德斯还表示，他的幕僚“现在”就在和超级代表们“打电话”，包括那些支持克林顿的人。周二深夜，他的竞选团队还给支持者们发了一封邮件，请求他们在下周二于华盛顿特区进行的最后一场民主党初选中坚定地给他投票——这表明桑德斯还不打算放弃。