November 2016 is still a long way off, but it’s hard to imagine that the presidential campaign will provide any bit of advertising as strangely entertaining and revealing as a video put online recently by Stand With Hillary, a new “super PAC.”
现在离2016年11月还有很长时间，但看完“支持希拉里”(Stand With Hillary)——这是一家新的“超级政治行动委员会”(super PAC)——最近在网上发布的一则视频，实在难以想象总统大选期间里还会出现比这个更奇特搞笑，信息量也更大的广告了。
Haven’t seen it? Oh you must. Right now. I give you leave from this column to go take a look, but hurry back. There’s a lot to talk about.
你还没看？哎呀，你可一定得看。现在就去，先放下这篇文章去看一下这个视频吧。不过看完后要赶快回来，因为里面有很多东西可聊。
It spotlights a man in a cowboy hat who croons in a country-and-western twang about how darned much he adores that there Hillary Clinton. “Hindsight’s always right,” he sings, a clear dig at Barack Obama, the candidate chosen over her in the Democratic primaries. There are images of construction work, a welder, a pickup truck, a tractor, a big red barn, cows. It’s the unveiling of Hard-Hat Hillary. Rodeo Hillary. Hillary, Patron Saint of the Prairie.
视频突出展示了一个戴着牛仔帽的男子，他以西部乡村风格唱着，自己对希拉里·克林顿喜欢到不得了。“事过之后总是看得清楚，”他唱道，明显是影射此前在民主党初选中击败希拉里成为总统候选人的奥巴马。视频里还出现了建筑工地、一个焊接工人、一辆皮卡、一架拖拉机、一个大大的红色谷仓，还有奶牛。视频揭开了希拉里的另一面：劳工希拉里，牛仔希拉里，大草原守护神希拉里。
But it positions her first and foremost as all woman. The references are incessant. The chorus goes like this: “Thinking about one great lady like the women in my life. She’s a mother, a daughter and through it all, she’s a loving wife.”
但视频首先把她定位为一名女性，相关提示不断出现。副歌是这么唱的：“想想一名伟大的女性，就像我生命中的那些女性一样。她是母亲，也是女儿，而且自始至终是位好妻子。”
A man with a sledgehammer shatters a panel of glass — twice. And the cowboy exhorts his brethren: “Put your boots on and let’s smash this ceiling.” Just in case there was any doubt about what that glass meant.
一名手握锤子的男子打碎了一块玻璃，这个镜头出现了两次。那个牛仔劝告同胞：“穿上靴子，让我们一起打碎这块天花板。”以防有人对那块玻璃的含义有任何疑惑。
The video wasn’t produced by Clinton or her aides. But the people who did put it together clearly followed the cues that they felt they were getting, and they read her intentions right. If she runs, she’ll do so with more focus on her gender and a greater emphasis on making history than she did in 2008.
制作这段视频的不是希拉里，也不是她的助手。但制做视频的人，显然遵从了他们感受到的提示，而且他们对希拉里意图的解读也是正确的。如果参加竞选，她会比2008年更注重自己的性别，更强调创造历史。
And that’ll be the smart move, because her gender is precisely what offsets certain of her weaknesses as a candidate. To double down on the double X may be her best way to mitigate several otherwise big vulnerabilities.
那将是明智之举，因为她的性别恰好能弥补她作为候选人的某些劣势。在自己身为女性这一点上押更多筹码，或许是她避开其他几项重大缺陷的最好办法。
Back in 2008, “Clinton seemed to develop a tortured approach toward her gender on the campaign trail, sometimes embracing it, sometimes dismissing it, sometimes appearing to overcompensate for it — but rarely appearing at ease with it,” wrote Anne Kornblut of The Washington Post in her 2009 book about that race, “Notes From the Cracked Ceiling.”
在2009年的《天花板上的裂痕》(Notes From the Cracked Ceiling)一书中，供职于《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的安妮·科恩布卢特(Anne Kornblut)写道，2008年时，“克林顿在竞选期间对待自己的性别的方式似乎有些挣扎，有时欣然接受，有时不予理会，有时似乎又矫枉过正，但鲜少能安然处之。”该书的主题便是那一年的大选。
She observed that some of Clinton’s key advisers felt that partly because of her gender, she had to routinely assert toughness and be America’s own Iron Lady. There were boxing gloves at her events, along with music from “Rocky.”
她观察到，克林顿的一些关键顾问认为，部分是因为她的性别，她必须时常表现出强硬，要成为美国自己的铁娘子。她的造势活动上出现过拳击手套和《洛奇》(Rocky)中的音乐。
Kornblut recalled the time when she was told by a proud Clinton adviser that it was “as though his boss were running with a penis.” And at one campaign event, a labor leader introduced her as “the candidate with ‘testicular fortitude,’ ” Kornblut wrote.
科恩布卢特回忆道，克林顿一名自豪的顾问曾告诉她，他的老板“竞选的时候像个‘带把儿’的”。科恩布卢特写道，在一次竞选活动上，一名劳工领袖介绍希拉里时称她是个“‘像纯爷们一样刚毅’的候选人”。
Clinton never gave a gender speech that rivaled Obama’s race speech.
克林顿从未就性别发表过能与奥巴马的种族演讲相匹敌的讲话。
Additionally, “When Obama won the Iowa caucuses, everybody wrote and talked about it as historic,” Kornblut told me last week. “But Jesse Jackson had won primaries. When Hillary Clinton won New Hampshire, it was historic. But the coverage was, ‘Hillary made a comeback. She’s the comeback kid, just like her husband was.’ ”
此外，“当奥巴马在艾奥瓦的党团会议中胜出时，所有人都撰文谈论这件事的历史意义。”科恩布卢特上周告诉我，“但杰西·杰克逊(Jesse Jackson)也赢得过初选。希拉里·克林顿在新罕布什尔州获胜一事也有历史意义。但相关的报道却是，‘希拉里东山再起。就像她丈夫曾经那样，她回归了。’”
Kornblut said that, belatedly, a few members of Clinton’s inner circle came to believe that her frequently gender-neutral approach wasn’t just “a big mistake of the campaign. That was the big strategic mistake.”
科恩布卢特说，克林顿核心圈子里的几名成员很晚才意识到，她频频采取的那种性别中立的方式不仅是“竞选过程中的一大失误，还是最重大的战略失误”。
But with an even longer résumé now, Clinton could emphasize her trailblazing womanhood for 2016 without the worry that many voters would misinterpret it as the main qualification that she’s claiming. And after four years as a secretary of state more hawkish than the president she served, she wouldn’t have to push the image of a dauntless world leader.
但经历更加丰富的克林顿，可以为了2016年的选举强调自己开拓性的女性身份，而不用担心很多选民会误以为这是她拿出的主要资本。因为在担任国务卿的四年里，她比总统还强硬，因此不必推广自己是一名无所畏惧的世界领导人的形象。
Americans’ economic anxieties will almost surely be at the center of the race, and with the right language, Clinton might have “the ability to talk as mom and grandmom about the need to make sure government is on the side of our families,” Chris Lehane, a Democratic strategist who recently addressed the group Ready for Hillary, told me.
美国人对经济的忧虑几乎毫无疑问将成为选战中的核心问题，凭借适当的语言技巧，克林顿或许“能以一位母亲和外婆的身份，来论证政府有必要与家庭站在一起”，民主党策略师克里斯·勒汉(Chris Lehane)对我说。他不久前曾对政治团体“万事俱备，希拉里”(Ready for Hillary)发表演讲。
“Being a woman translates into great politics,” he said.
“身为女人可以转化为很强的政治优势，”他说。
Clinton seemingly agrees. Over the last year she has weighed in strongly on issues like equal pay and child care. She has done women-themed events galore.
克林顿似乎也同意这一点。过去一年，她积极地参与男女同工同酬和关爱儿童等事业中。她还举办了大量以女性为主题的活动。
In a speech at Georgetown University last week, she said: “We know when women contribute in making and keeping peace, entire societies enjoy better outcomes. Women leaders, it has been found, are good at building coalitions across ethnic and sectarian lines and speaking up for other marginalized groups.”
上周在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)发表演讲时，克林顿说，“我们知道，当女性参与构建和维护和平时，整个社会都会享受到更好的成果。人们发现，女性领导人善于建立跨越族群和教派的联盟，善于为其他被边缘化的群体发声。”
IT’S possible that Clinton has noticed polls. In one by Gallup early this year, when Americans were asked what about a Clinton presidency would be most exciting, the answer given more than any other was that she would be the first woman in the job.
克林顿可能已经注意到了一些民调结果。盖洛普(Gallup)今年年初的一项调查中，当美国人被问到如果克林顿当选总统，哪一点最令人激动，半数以上的回答是，她将是美国的第一位女总统。
It’s her “unique selling proposition,” wrote Frank Newport, Gallup’s editor in chief, in an analysis of those results.
这是她“独有的竞选优势”，盖洛普的主编弗兰克·纽波特(Frank Newport)在对这些结果的分析中说。
And that proposition is potentially an inoculation.
这种观点可能会是一支预防针。
Yes, she’s been around forever and isn’t a fresh face. But she can’t be yesterday’s news when she’s tomorrow’s precedent.
是的，她从政已久，已经不再是一张新面孔了。但如果她能为明天开创先河，她就不会过时。
Yes, there’s a whiff of dynasty about her. But maybe she gets some of the “new car smell” that Obama said voters were looking for by promising a new altitude of female accomplishment.
是的，她出自一个势力稳固的政治家庭。但或许她可以通过承诺将女性的成就带到新高度，来营造奥巴马形容选民们一直在寻找的“新汽车的气息”。
Yes, a contest between her and Jeb Bush would be one of two surnames from the past. But only she can claim to represent an uncharted future, at least in one sense.
是的，她和杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)的竞争，会让人们再次看到两个来自过去的姓氏。但只有她才能声称代表一个未知的未来，至少在某一种意义上是这样。
Yes, detractors will say that she’s a third term of Obama: business as usual. Her supporters can answer that she’s history’s unfinished business.
是的，诋毁者会说，她的当选将是奥巴马的第三个任期：一切照旧。但她的支持者可以反驳说，她是历史尚未完成的章节。
Yes, she’s now wealthy and well-connected, and would be starting the race with titanic advantages. But if she’s willing to talk about her experience as a woman, she can talk about what it’s been like to make her way in a man’s world. She’s a leader of the pack who can make some underdog noises, an ultimate insider who can potentially connect with outsiders — thanks to gender.
是的，她现在要钱有钱，要人脉有人脉，从竞选开始就拥有巨大的优势。但如果她愿意谈谈作为女性的经历，那么可以讲一下进入男人的世界是怎样一种感觉。她既是一个领袖，又能为弱势群体发声；她是政界的圈内人，但又能与外界产生共鸣——这都要感谢她的性别。
Lehane called it “a sword and a shield.”
勒汉将其称为“剑盾合一”。