The three leading Democratic presidential candidates, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Bernie Sanders and Martin O’Malley, overlap significantly in their positions on key issues, each pushing a liberal agenda by different degrees.
三位主要的民主党总统候选人希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)、伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)和马丁·奥马利(Martin O’Malley)在关键议题上的立场显著重叠，他们基本上都是在推动自由派议程，只是程度各有不同。
On Income Inequality
关于收入不平等
While the Democratic candidates say that President Obama’s economic recovery brought the country out of recession, they say he has not done enough to make sure that growth is broadly shared.
这些民主党候选人说，尽管奥巴马总统推动的经济复苏让美国走出了经济衰退，但他没有采取足够的措施来确保增长的成果得到广泛分享。
All three candidates have called for increasing the minimum wage, though Mrs. Clinton has not gone as far as Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Malley in support of a $15-an-hour minimum. They also want to end the “carried interest” loophole and expand paid family leave and overtime rules.
所有三位候选人都呼吁提高最低工资标准，但克林顿没有像桑德斯和奥马利那样支持每小时15美元的最低工资。他们希望封堵“附带权益”漏洞，延长带薪探亲假、拓宽关于加班的规定。
Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Sanders support expanding Social Security benefits.
奥马利和桑德斯支持增加社会安全(Social Security)福利。
Mr. Sanders has called for wealthy people and corporations to pay more in taxes, while proposing to invest $1 trillion in infrastructure and eliminate tuition at public colleges and universities.
桑德斯呼吁对富人和企业加税，同时建议在基础设施上投资1万亿美元，取消公立高校的学费。
Mrs. Clinton has proposed less ambitious spending programs, including an education plan to offer a debt-free college education for students who work. She also announced a plan to encourage corporations to share profits with employees.
克林顿则提出了一个相对温和的支出规划，其中包括一项教育计划，为在职学生提供无需承担债务的高等教育。她还宣布了一项鼓励企业与员工分享利润的计划。
On Wall Street
关于华尔街
Although the Justice Department recently announced it would prioritize the prosecution of individuals involved in white-collar crime, the liberal base of the Democratic Party has criticized the administration for not being tough enough on Wall Street criminals.
尽管司法部近日宣布，将优先对参与白领犯罪的个人进行公诉，但民主党自由派选民批评，政府对华尔街犯罪的态度不够强硬。
All three candidates support a financial transaction tax to raise money and limit high-frequency trading.
所有三位候选人都支持用金融交易税来筹集资金，并对高频交易加以限制。
Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Sanders have argued for breaking up the nation’s largest banks and for restoring the Glass-Steagall Act, which had separated commercial and investment banking.
奥马利和桑德斯主张拆分国内最大的银行，并恢复实施《格拉斯-斯蒂格尔法》(Glass-Steagall Act)，该法要求将商业银行和投资银行业务分割开来。
Mrs. Clinton has argued for imposing a “risk fee” on the largest financial institutions, and although she would give regulators more authority to break apart big banks, she has stopped short of calling for the reinstatement of Glass-Steagall.
克林顿主张对大型金融机构征收“风险费”，虽然她主张向监管机构赋予更多权力来拆分大银行，但却没有要求恢复《格拉斯-斯蒂格尔法》。
On Gun Control
关于枪支管控
Efforts by Democrats to pass gun restrictions in the wake of a number of mass shootings have failed in a Republican-controlled Congress.
在一些大规模枪击案发生后，民主党试图对枪支加以限制，但这些规定未能在共和党控制的国会获得通过。
All three candidates support closing the so-called gun show loophole that allows people to purchase guns online or at gun shows from a private seller without a background check.
所有三位候选人都支持封堵“枪展漏洞”，这是指人们在网上或在枪展上，可以在不经过背景调查的情况下，从私人卖家那里购买枪支。
Mr. O’Malley advocates fingerprint-based licenses for gun purchases.
奥马利建议，购买枪支要使用基于指纹的许可证。
Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Sanders have called for a ban on assault weapons.
奥马利和桑德斯呼吁禁止攻击性武器。
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. O’Malley favor overturning a law that shields gun manufacturers and dealers from lawsuits.
希拉里和奥马利赞成推翻一项可以让枪支制造商和经销商免受诉讼的法律。
Mr. Sanders, who has had a mixed record on guns, voted for that shield law in Congress.
而桑德斯曾在国会投票支持过那项法律，他过去在控枪议题上的立场出现过反复。
On the Affordable Care Act
关于《合理医疗费用法案》
Democrats generally favor the 2010 health care law, but many are proposing changes.
民主党人普遍支持2010年的《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)，但很多人都提出了修改意见。
All three candidates have called for the repeal of a planned tax on high-cost employer-sponsored insurance, known as the Cadillac tax.
所有三位候选人都呼吁废除一个计划征收的税目，称为“凯迪拉克税”(Cadillac tax)，它针对的是由雇主出资购买的高费率保险。
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders have put forth proposals to reduce patients’ prescription drug costs.
克林顿和桑德斯都提出了为患者降低处方药花销的方案。
Pointing out the large number of people who remain uninsured or underinsured despite the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Sanders has called for a Medicare-for-all single-payer health care system.
桑德斯指出，尽管出台了《合理医疗费用法案》，但依然有很多人没有医疗保险或保障范围不足。他呼吁建立一个向所有人提供联邦医疗保险(Medicare)、由一方掏腰包的医保体系。
On Immigration
关于移民
Mr. Obama took executive action to shield up to five million unauthorized immigrants from deportation but has said that offering a path to citizenship is beyond his legal abilities.
为了让多达500万名非法移民不被驱逐出境，奥巴马采取了行政行动。但奥巴马也表示，提供入籍途径超出了他的法定权限。
All three candidates support a path to citizenship and have said they would go beyond the president’s actions, including shielding parents of young immigrants from deportation.
三位候选人都支持提供入籍途径，并表示将采取力度超过奥巴马的行动，包括让年轻移民的父母免于被驱逐出境。
Mr. O’Malley has pushed for expanding access to health care for undocumented immigrants.
奥马利要求，扩大无证件移民可以享受的医疗服务。
Mr. Sanders has been critical of guest worker programs, saying that allowing more temporary foreign workers drives down wages for American workers and hampers efforts to reduce unemployment.
桑德斯一直对客工计划持批评态度，称允许更多外国临时工入境，会压低美国就业者的工资，妨碍降低失业率的行动。
On Obama’s Signature Trade Deal
关于奥巴马标志性的贸易协定
Labor groups and many Democrats in Congress have criticized the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal.
劳工团体和很多民主党国会议员均对跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）持批评态度。
Both Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Sanders have been vocal in their opposition, saying that the agreement would be bad for American workers.
奥马利和桑德斯公开反对，称该协议会对美国工人不利。
Mrs. Clinton championed the pact when she was secretary of state. She had avoided taking a position on the completed agreement until recently, when she announced that she was against it.
克林顿担任国务卿时曾推动该协定。她一直不愿对这项已经达成的协定表态，直到前不久才宣布自己持反对立场。
On Climate Change
关于气候变化
Mr. Obama has taken significant steps to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but he has been criticized by environmental groups for approving new drilling in the Arctic Ocean. The administration has not yet decided whether to approve the Keystone XL pipeline.
奥巴马为减少温室气体排放采取了一些重要举措，但因批准北冰洋新的钻探活动，他也遭到了环保组织的指责。奥巴马政府尚未决定是否批准Keystone XL管道项目。
All three candidates oppose drilling in the Arctic and the proposed Keystone XL pipeline, though Mrs. Clinton did not come out against it publicly until September. They also support eliminating tax breaks for fossil fuel companies.
三名候选人都反对北冰洋的钻探活动和提议的Keystone XL输油管道方案，但克林顿直到9月才站出来公开反对。他们也支持取消化石燃料企业享受的税收减免。
Mrs. Clinton has laid out an ambitious climate change plan focused on generating renewable energy.
克林顿制定了一个雄心勃勃的气候变化方案，其重点是开发可再生能源。
Mr. O’Malley went even further, proposing that the country should be fully powered by clean energy by 2050.
奥马利则更进一步，提议到2050年时，美国应该完全使用清洁能源。
Mr. Sanders has proposed taxing carbon emissions.
桑德斯提议对碳排放征税。
On Foreign Policy
关于外交政策
Mr. Obama has avoided direct involvement in the conflicts in the Middle East, preferring to provide Syrian rebels and others fighting the Islamic State with weapons, training and other resources.
奥巴马避免直接卷入中东的冲突，宁可为叙利亚反对派和打击伊斯兰国的其他力量提供武器、训练和其他资源。
All three candidates supported the nuclear deal with Iran, though Mrs. Clinton expressed skepticism about Iran’s intentions.
三位候选人都支持与伊朗达成的核协议，不过克林顿对伊朗的意图表示怀疑。
Mr. O’Malley and Mr. Sanders align with Mr. Obama in opposing a no-fly zone over Syria, saying the policy could lead to an escalation in war.
奥马利和桑德斯与奥巴马一样，都反对在叙利亚上空设立禁飞区，称该政策可能会导致战事升级。
Hawkish on foreign policy and American intervention abroad, Mrs. Clinton has called for a no-fly zone over Syria and has advocated arming moderate Syrian rebels.
克林顿在外交政策和美国的海外干预问题上态度强硬，呼吁在叙利亚上空设立禁飞区，并支持武装叙利亚反对派中的温和派。
Mr. Sanders has said that war should be a “last resort,” and has called on Muslim nations to lead the fight against the Islamic State.
桑德斯称战争应该是“不得已的最后选项”，并呼吁穆斯林国家带头抗击伊斯兰国。