The former secretary of state and author of “Hard Choices” keeps copies of Republican memoirs like “Faith of My Fathers” and “Decision Points” on her shelves.
前国务卿、《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)的作者的书架上有共和党人的回忆录，比如《父辈的信仰》(Faith of My Fathers)和《抉择时刻》(Decision Points)。
What books are you reading right now?
你现在在读什么书？
I’ve got a pile of books stacked on my night stand that I’m reading — or hoping to get to soon. I’m usually working on more than one at a time. So right now it’s “The Goldfinch,” by Donna Tartt; “Mom & Me & Mom,” by Maya Angelou; and “Missing You,” by Harlan Coben.
我的床头柜上放了一堆我正在读的书——或者希望能很快开始读的书。我一般是同时读好几本。现在我读的是唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)的《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)、马娅·安杰卢(Maya Angelou)的《妈妈和我和妈妈》(Mom & Me & Mom)和哈伦·科本(Harlan Coben)的《想念你》(Missing You)。
What was the last truly great book you read?
你读的上一本真正的好书是什么？
I can’t stop thinking about “The Hare With Amber Eyes,” by Edmund de Waal; “The Signature of All Things,” by Elizabeth Gilbert; “Citizens of London,” by Lynne Olson; and “A Suitable Boy,” by Vikram Seth.
我总是在不断回想艾蒙德·德·瓦尔(Edmund de Waal)的《琥珀色眼睛的兔子》(The Hare With Amber Eyes)；伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特(Elizabeth Gilbert)的《万物的签名》(The Signature of All Things)；琳内·奥尔森(Lynne Olson)的《伦敦公民》(Citizens of London)；以及维克拉姆·塞斯(Vikram Seth)的《一个合适的男孩》(A Suitable Boy)。
Who are your favorite contemporary writers? Are there any writers whose books you automatically read when they come out?
你最喜欢的当代作家有哪些？有没有哪位作家的书一出版你就会读？
I will read anything by Laura Hillenbrand, Walter Isaacson, Barbara Kingsolver, John le Carré, John Grisham, Hilary Mantel, Toni Morrison, Anna Quindlen and Alice Walker. And I love series that follow particular characters over time and through their experiences, so I automatically read the latest installments from Alex Berenson, Linda Fairstein, Sue Grafton, Donna Leon, Katherine Hall Page, Louise Penny, Daniel Silva, Alexander McCall Smith, Charles Todd and Jacqueline Winspear.
下面这些作家不管出什么书我都会读：劳拉·希伦布兰德(Laura Hillenbrand)、沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)、芭芭拉·金索弗(Barbara Kingsolver)、约翰·勒·卡雷(John le Carré)、约翰·格里沙姆(John Grisham)、希拉里·曼特尔(Hilary Mantel)、托妮·莫里森(Toni Morrison)、安娜·昆德兰(Anna Quindlen)和爱丽丝·沃克(Alice Walker)。我很喜欢讲述某些人物长期经历的系列图书，所以我会自动阅读下面这些作家的最新著作：亚历克斯·贝伦森(Alex Berenson)、琳达·法尔斯坦恩(Linda Fairstein)、苏·格拉夫顿(Sue Grafton)、唐娜·利昂(Donna Leon)、凯瑟琳·霍尔·佩奇(Katherine Hall Page)、路易丝·彭尼(Louise Penny)、丹尼尔·西尔瓦(Daniel Silva)、亚历山大·麦考尔·史密斯(Alexander McCall Smith)、查尔斯·托德(Charles Todd)和杰奎琳·温斯皮尔(Jacqueline Winspear)。
What are your favorite novels? Your favorite short stories? Poems you hold especially dear?
你最喜欢的小说是什么？你最喜欢的短篇故事呢？你特别欣赏的诗歌呢？
“The Brothers Karamazov” made a lasting impression on me when I read it as a young woman; I intend to reread it this summer to see what I now think about it. My favorite short stories are by Alice Munro, especially her collections “Carried Away” and “Runaway.” That’s an easy choice for me compared with the many poets I’ve appreciated over time. Included in that list are E. E. Cummings, T. S. Eliot, Seamus Heaney, Pablo Neruda, Mary Oliver and W. B. Yeats.
我年轻时读过《卡拉马佐夫兄弟》(The Brothers Karamazov)，它给我留下了长久的印象，我打算今年夏天重读一遍，看看我现在对它的看法是什么。我最喜欢爱丽丝·门罗(Alice Munro)写的短篇故事，特别是她的文集《忘乎所以》(Carried Away)和《逃离》(Runaway)中的故事。要让我从多年来欣赏过的众多诗人中选我最喜欢的，就没有那么容易了。我喜欢的诗人包括E·E·卡明斯(E. E. Cummings)、T·S·艾略特(T. S. Eliot)、谢默斯·希尼(Seamus Heaney)、巴勃罗·聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)、玛丽·奥利弗(Mary Oliver)和W·B·叶慈(W. B. Yeats)。
What are your literary guilty pleasures? Do you have a favorite genre?
读什么书会带给你有罪恶感的快乐？你有最喜欢的题材吗？
Cooking, decorating, diet/self-help and gardening books are guilty pleasures and useful time fillers.
烹饪、装修、节食/自助和园艺书籍带给我罪恶的快乐，它们是填补零碎时间的有用图书。
And the best books about Washington, D.C.? Is there one book you’d recommend to someone planning to move to or work in the capital?
关于华盛顿特区的最好的书是什么？有没有哪本书你想推荐给计划搬到首都工作的人？
“Our Divided Political Heart,” by E. J. Dionne, shows how most everybody has some conservative and liberal impulses, but just as individuals have to reconcile them within ourselves, so does our political system if we expect to function productively. “After the Music Stopped,” Alan Blinder’s account of the financial crisis, is clear in its analysis and recommendations.
E·J·迪翁(E. J. Dionne)的《我们分裂的政治心》(Our Divided Political Heart)说明，大多数普通人都有一点保守和自由的冲动，但是就像我们每个人都得在内心深处调和二者一样，如果我们想让政治体系有效运转，也要调和这二者。艾伦·布林德尔(Alan Blinder)的《音乐停止之后》(After the Music Stopped)是对金融危机的描述，他的分析和建议非常清晰。
What do you like to read when you travel?
你旅行的时候喜欢读什么书？
When I traveled as secretary of state, I was deluged with thick briefing books full of information about the politics, economy and culture of each destination, so those took up most of my reading time. But when I could, I’d read a novel or travelogue about the places I was visiting, such as “The House at Sugar Beach,” by Helene Cooper, about her childhood in Liberia, and “Finding George Orwell in Burma,” by Emma Larkin.
我任国务卿旅行时，要读很多关于每个目的地的政治、经济和文化信息的厚厚的简报，所以它们占据了我的大部分阅读时间。但是在可能的时候，我会读关于我要前往的地方的小说或旅行见闻，比如海伦妮·库珀(Helene Cooper)讲述她在利比里亚的童年的《糖果海滩的家》(The House at Sugar Beach)以及艾玛·拉金(Emma Larkin)的《在缅甸寻找乔治·奥威尔》(Finding George Orwell in Burma)。
Is there one book you wish all students would read?
有没有哪本书你希望所有的学生都读一下？
“Pride and Prejudice,” by Jane Austen; “Out of Africa,” by Isak Dinesen; “Schindler’s List,” by Thomas Keneally.
简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的《傲慢与偏见》(Pride and Prejudice)；伊萨克·迪内森(Isak Dinesen)的《走出非洲》(Out of Africa)；托马斯·肯尼利(Thomas Keneally)的《辛德勒的名单》(Schindler’s List)。
What kind of reader were you as a child? What were your favorite childhood books? And the books you were most eager to pass along to your daughter?
你小时候是个什么样的读者？你童年最喜欢的书是什么？你最急切想传给女儿的书是什么？
Oh, I was always reading something, from “Winnie-the-Pooh” to Nancy Drew to “Little Women” to James Michener. And I started reading to Chelsea with “Goodnight Moon” and “The Runaway Bunny” and “Curious George” and all the favorites which led her to make her own reading choices.
哦，我小时候总是在读书，从《维尼熊》(Winnie-the-Pooh)、神探南茜(Nancy Drew)系列、《小妇人》(Little Women)，到詹姆斯·米切纳(James Michener)。我给切尔西(Chelsea)最先读的是《晚安，月亮》(Goodnight Moon)、《逃家小兔》(The Runaway Bunny)、《好奇的乔治》(Curious George)以及其他所有我很喜欢的书，这些书引导她自己做出阅读选择。
If you had to name one book that made you who you are today, what would it be?
如果你必须选一本对造就现在的你影响最大的书，你会选哪本？
At the risk of appearing predictable, the Bible was and remains the biggest influence on my thinking. I was raised reading it, memorizing passages from it and being guided by it. I still find it a source of wisdom, comfort and encouragement.
从过去到现在，《圣经》都是对我的思想影响最大的书，虽然我这么说可能显得很老套。我从小就在读它，熟记其中的片段，按它的指导行事。我现在仍然觉得它是智慧的源泉，能安慰我，鼓励我。
Which books might we be surprised to find on your shelves?
你书架上的哪些书可能让我们觉得意外？
You might be surprised to see memoirs by Republicans such as “Decision Points,” by President George W. Bush, and “Faith of My Fathers,” by Senator John McCain.
你们可能不会想到我的书架上有共和党人的回忆录，比如乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的《抉择时刻》和参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)的《父辈的信仰》。
What was the last book to make you laugh?
上一本让你大笑的书是什么？
Janet Evanovich’s series about Stephanie Plum’s adventures in Trenton always makes me laugh.
珍妮特·伊万诺维奇(Janet Evanovich)关于斯芬蒂尼·普拉姆(Stephanie Plum)在特伦顿历险的系列图书总能让我大笑。
You’re hosting a literary dinner party. Which three writers are invited?
如果你要举办一个文学宴会派对，你会邀请哪三位作家？
I’d choose to have one guest for a long dinner: William Shakespeare. I’m curious to see who would show up and what he really wrote.
我会选择只邀请一位客人，共进一顿漫长的晚餐：威廉·莎士比亚(William Shakespeare)。我很想知道谁会现身，他到底写了什么。
What books are you embarrassed not to have read yet?
有哪些书你还没读过，让你难为情？
I’m embarrassed to admit how many — so I won’t! But one example is Proust’s “In Search of Lost Time.” I’ve never made the time.
要承认有多少书我还没读过会让我很难为情，所以我不承认了！但是其中一本是普鲁斯特(Proust)的《追忆似水年华》(In Search of Lost Time)。我一直没挤出时间读它。