DES MOINES — Hillary Clinton was declared the winner of the Iowa caucuses on Tuesday after final vote counts showed her narrowly beating Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, according to The Associated Press and other news organizations.
得梅因——据美联社(Associated Press)等新闻机构报道，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)成为艾奥瓦州本周二预选会的赢家。最终计票结果显示，她险胜佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。
According to the final results announced by the Iowa Democratic Party, Mrs. Clinton was awarded 700.59 state delegate equivalents, the terminology used in Iowa to represent candidates’ share of the total caucus vote. Mr. Sanders was awarded 696.82 delegates, and former Gov. Martin O’Malley received 7.61 delegates. Iowa Democrats usually do not release raw vote counts from each of the state’s 1,681 caucus precincts.
从艾奥瓦州民主党公布的最终结果来看，克林顿相当于赢得了700.59个州级代表的支持。桑德斯获得了696.82个代表，前州长马丁·奥马利(Martin O’Malley)获得了7.61。艾奥瓦州民主党通常不公布该州1681个预选选区的原始投票数据。
Based on these results, Mrs. Clinton is set to receive 23 of Iowa’s delegates and Mr. Sanders will earn 21 delegates. There are 4,763 delegates to the Democratic National Convention, so it will require 2,382 delegates to win the nomination.
根据此结果，克林顿将赢得代表艾奥瓦州参加全国大会的23个代表，桑德斯获得21个代表。民主党全国大会共有4763个代表，所以需要有2382个才能获得提名。
The Iowa results — the closest in the history of the Iowa Democratic caucuses — were far tighter than Mrs. Clinton and her advisers had expected. But her team embraced the result as a significant win given her previous troubles in the state — she came in third place in the 2008 caucuses — and Mr. Sanders’s popularity with many liberals here. (In a poll last month, 43 percent of likely Iowa Democratic caucusgoers described themselves as socialists.) Still, the close margin privately frustrated Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton, according to advisers, because they had hoped that a strong win would give her much-needed political momentum in New Hampshire, where Mr. Sanders has a solid lead in opinion polls.
艾奥瓦州的投票结果远逊于希拉里及其顾问的预期——这是该州民主党预选历史上输赢差距最接近的一次。但鉴于她以前在这个州战绩不佳——在2008年预选中，她排在第三位——以及桑德斯在这里的很多自由派人士中人气较高（在上个月的民意调查中，艾奥瓦州民主党可能参加预选会的人中，有43%自称是社会主义者），她的团队把这样的结果视为重大胜利。尽管如此，克林顿和前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)私下里对这样的险胜感到失望，顾问说，克林顿夫妇曾希望强力胜出，并乘胜顺利拿下新罕布什尔州，因为民调显示桑德斯在那里的领先形势很牢固。
Mrs. Clinton quickly sought to capitalize on the skin-of-her-teeth victory, presenting herself as a winner during a rally in New Hampshire on Tuesday morning as she and Mr. Sanders intensified their competition to win the primary there.
在艾奥瓦州险胜之后，克林顿马上借势而动，本周二早上，在新罕布什尔州的一场集会中，她展示了自己的赢家风采。她和桑德斯在那里的竞争正在加剧。
“I can tell you, I’ve won and I’ve lost there — and it’s a lot better to win,” Mrs. Clinton said to cheers at Nashua Community College.
“我来告诉你，在那里我曾经赢过，也曾经输过——胜利的滋味好多了，”克林顿在纳舒厄社区学院(Nashua Community College)的欢呼声中说。
“This is an exciting week for a lot of reasons,” she added, promising a spirited “contest of ideas” between herself and Mr. Sanders over policies and actions that can “make a real difference in people’s lives.”
“这周令人兴奋的原因有很多，”她说，对于“可以给人们的生活带来真正改变”的政策与举措，自己和桑德斯将展开充满活力的“理念竞争”。
Mr. Sanders planned to hold rallies later Tuesday in Keene and Claremont, while Mrs. Clinton had events in Nashua and Hampton.
克林顿在纳舒厄和汉普顿举办活动之际，桑德斯计划晚些时候在基恩和克莱蒙特召开集会。
With Iowa accounting for only 1 percent of the delegates at stake in the Democratic nominating race, Mrs. Clinton is already far ahead of Mr. Sanders in the delegate count that matters most, given her support from several hundred superdelegates who count toward the nomination. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Clinton have expressed confidence to allies that she can afford to lose Iowa, as well as the next contest, the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9, because of her strength in big-state, delegate-rich primaries and in the South where the Clintons believe their support among African-Americans will be a political firewall.
对于民主党提名大战来说，艾奥瓦州的影响力只有1%，在最重要的代表名额上，克林顿已经遥遥领先于桑德斯，因为有几百名直接参与提名的超级代表支持她。克林顿夫妇已经自信地向盟友表示，即便她在艾奥瓦州以及2月9日新罕布什尔州初选中失利也没有关系，因为她在较大的州，代表名额较多的州，以及南方诸州都占优势。克林顿夫妇认为，他们从非裔美国人那里获得的支持，将会是一道政治上的保障。
Rather than release precinct-by-precinct vote totals for Democratic candidates, Iowa uses a formula to allocate “state delegate equivalents” to the candidates based on their shares of support in each caucus site, where voters group themselves into different clusters that represent their preferred candidate. Democratic caucusgoers do not cast ballots that can be easily recounted; instead, state party volunteers and other workers in each precinct report the delegate totals based on the size of the clusters on Monday night.
艾奥瓦州通常不公布民主党候选人在每个选区获得的总票数，而是依据他们在每场预选会中获得的支持份额，用一个公式来分配该州“代表当量”。投票者自己在预选会中组团，表示他们支持哪个侯选人。民主党预选会的参与者不进行那种很容易重新计数的投票，而是由该州每个选区的民主党志愿者和其他工作人员，根据周一晚上组团的规模大小，来计算代表总数。
State party officials said that 171,109 Iowa Democrats came out to caucus on Monday. Sanders campaign advisers believed they would win Iowa if the turnout was high, pointing to Barack Obama’s commanding win in the 2008 caucuses when about 240,000 people turned out. Neither the Sanders nor Clinton campaigns expected turnout to be anywhere near that level, but the Sanders advisers had hoped that it would be closer to 2008 than to 2004, when about 125,000 people showed up to caucus for Democratic candidates.
该州负责党务工作的官员称，艾奥瓦州有171109名民主党人参加了周一的预选。桑德斯的竞选顾问认为，如果投票率高，他们就能赢下艾奥瓦州。他们提到在2008年的预选中，24万人投票，结果贝拉克·奥巴马以绝对优势获胜。桑德斯和希拉里的竞选团队都没料到投票率是这个水平，但桑德斯的顾问本希望投票率更接近2008年，而不是2004年的水平。2004年时，只有大约12.5万人参加民主党预选。
Two Sanders advisers said on Tuesday morning that they were awaiting the final caucus results before considering a possible challenge to the delegate calculations. Mr. Sanders, on his flight from Iowa to New Hampshire late Monday night, said he would ask the Iowa Democratic Party to reveal the raw vote count underlying the delegate percentages.
桑德斯的两名顾问周二上午称，他们正在等最终的预选结果，然后才考虑可能会质疑代表人数的计算过程。周一深夜，正从艾奥瓦州飞往新罕布什尔州的桑德斯表示，他将要求艾奥瓦州民主党公布原始投票数据。原始数据是计算代表比例的基础。
Matt Paul, the director of Mrs. Clinton’s Iowa campaign, said there was nothing to contest.
克林顿在艾奥瓦州的竞选负责人马特·保罗(Matt Paul)表示，不存在争议。
“Hillary Clinton has won the Iowa caucus,” he said in a statement early Tuesday morning. “After thorough reporting — and analysis — of results, there is no uncertainty and Secretary Clinton has clearly won the most national and state delegates. Statistically, there is no outstanding information that could change the results and no way that Senator Sanders can overcome Secretary Clinton’s advantage.”
“希拉里·克林顿赢得了艾奥瓦州的预选，”他周二清晨发表声明说。“在对结果进行了全面的汇报和分析后，不存在不确定性因素，克林顿国务卿显然赢得了全国和该州的大部分代表。从统计角度来看，没有可以改变选举结果的明显信息，桑德斯议员也无法超过克林顿国务卿的优势。”
Mr. O’Malley announced on Monday night that he was suspending his campaign, given his poor results in Iowa, leaving the fight for the Democratic nomination to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders.
周一晚上，考虑到在艾奥瓦州的得票结果不如人意，奥马利宣布停止竞选，把民主党提名人选的战场留给了克林顿和桑德斯。
Mrs. Clinton, in an MSNBC interview on Tuesday afternoon, said she believed she would get a “boost out of Iowa” to help her compete in “Senator Sanders’s backyard” in New Hampshire. Calibrating expectations for her performance in the primary, she noted that New Hampshire voters had a history of supporting “neighbors” like Mr. Sanders and said she would fight as hard as she did in 2008 when she pulled off an upset win there against Mr. Obama.
周二下午接受MSNBC的采访时，克林顿称她相信“艾奥瓦州的鼓舞”，会帮助自己在“桑德斯议员的后院”新罕布什尔州与对方竞争。她调整了对自己在新罕布什尔州初选中能取得的成绩的预期，指出新罕布什尔州有支持像桑德斯这样的“邻居”的历史，并称自己会像2008年那样奋力拼搏。2008年时，她在该州意外打败奥巴马。