Americans named President Obama and Hillary Clinton as the most admired man and woman in the world, according to a Gallup poll released on Monday, with Donald Trump tying Pope Francis as the second most admired man.
盖洛普(Gallup)本周一公布的一项民调显示，奥巴马总统和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)被美国人评选为世界上最受尊敬的男性和女性。唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)和教皇方济各(Pope Francis)在最受尊敬的男性排行榜上并列第二。
The sitting president is typically selected in the annual poll as the most admired man, and Mr. Obama, who was named as the first or second choice 17 percent of the time, was atop the list for the eighth year in a row. Mrs. Clinton, who was named 13 percent of the time, has been the top woman in the poll in each of the last 14 years and 20 times over all.
在每年的民意调查中，现任总统通常都会被选为最受尊敬的男性，这是奥巴马连续第八年在男性排行榜中登顶，有17%的受访者将他排在第一或第二位。克林顿本次获得13%的票数，在过去14年里，她每次都在女性排行榜中位居第一，总共登顶次数达20次。
Malala Yousafzai, the 18-year-old Pakistani education activist, came in second behind Mrs. Clinton with 5 percent, followed by Oprah Winfrey and Michelle Obama, both with 4 percent. Carly Fiorina, Queen Elizabeth II and Angela Merkel followed, with each earning 2 percent.
排在克林顿之后的是18岁的巴基斯坦教育活动人士马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)，她以5%的票数占据了第二位。然后是奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)与米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)，各获得4%的票数。接下来是卡莉·菲奥里纳(Carly Fiorina)、英国女王伊丽莎白二世和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，各获得2%。
Among the men, Pope Francis and Mr. Trump each earned 5 percent, followed by Bernie Sanders with 3 percent and Bill Gates with 2 percent. Tied for seventh place were the Dalai Lama and George W. Bush.
在男性排行榜上，方济各和特朗普各获得5%的票数，然后是伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，得票3%；比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)，得票2%。并列第七位是达赖喇嘛(Dalai Lama)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)。
The poll tends to reflect names of people who have recently appeared in news headlines, said Frank M. Newport, editor in chief of the Gallup Poll. Rather than choose from a list of names, poll respondents offer whichever comes to mind.
盖洛普民调的总编辑弗兰克·M·纽波特(Frank M. Newport)说，这项调查反映的往往是近期出现在新闻标题中的名字。调查者不提供候选人名单，受访者可以选自己想到的任何人。
“It very much reflects who has been in the news, and who people can recall at a short period of time when an interviewer asks them,” Mr. Newport said.
“这很大程度上反映了新闻热点人物是哪些人，以及在听到调查者的询问后，受访者能在短时间内想起的人是哪些，”纽波特说。
Since Gallup began asking the open-ended question in 1948, Mrs. Clinton has been the top choice more than any other woman, followed by a former first lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, who was named the most admired woman 13 times. Dwight Eisenhower, the former president, was the top male choice 12 times, the only man to be named more than eight times.
自从盖洛普1948年开始采用开放式问题以来，克林顿比其他任何女性登顶的次数都多，紧随其后的是前第一夫人埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)，她有13次被评为最受尊敬的女性。前总统德怀特·艾森豪威尔(Dwight Eisenhower)有12次位居第一，是唯一登顶超过八次的男性。
The Rev. Billy Graham, 97, tied for ninth among men with 1 percent, continuing his run of appearing in the top 10 every year since 1963. His 59 appearances in the top 10 are by far the most among men, with Ronald Reagan behind him with 31 and Jimmy Carter with 28.
97岁的牧师比利·格雷厄姆(Billy Graham)获得1%的票数，在最受尊敬的男性排行榜上并列第九，维持了自1963年以来每年都能进入前十的势头。格雷厄姆曾59次跻身前十，次数远超其他人。其次是31次跻身前十的罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)，吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)以28次跻身前十的成绩排名第三。
Queen Elizabeth II leads women among top-10 finishes with 47, followed by Margaret Thatcher with 34 and Jacqueline Kennedy and Oprah Winfrey, both with 28.
英国女王伊丽莎白二世曾47次入选最受尊敬女性的前十名，以此拔得头筹，其次是34次跻身前十的玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)，杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)和奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)以28次的成绩并列第三。