With the nation on the verge of a presidential election between a trailblazing woman and an opponent accused of misogyny, Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump are digging in for a general election campaign in which he is likely to attack her, again and again, precisely because she is a woman.
随着一位身负开创意义的女性和她那被指厌弃女性的对手看来即将站上美国总统选举的对决台，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)都在为赢得大选胜利而奋力拼搏。在这场对决中，特朗普很可能会揪住克林顿的女性身份不放，一次次对她发起攻击。
Mr. Trump, the Republican favorite, has already proved willing to attack Mrs. Clinton in ways that many women find sexist and that her supporters consider out of bounds.
事实已经证明，在共和党人中领先的特朗普，不惜动用在很多女性看来带有性别歧视意味及被她的支持者认为过于出格的方式来攻击克林顿。
This week alone, he accused her of playing the “woman’s card” to get where she is, saying, “If Hillary Clinton were a man, I don’t think she’d get 5 percent of the vote.” He questioned her “strength” and “stamina,” and he mocked her for “shouting.” Also this year, he attacked Mrs. Clinton as the enabling political spouse of a former president who Mr. Trump said had abused women.
单是本周，他就曾指责克林顿走到今天靠的是打“女人牌”，宣称“如果希拉里·克林顿是个男人，我觉得她连5%的选票都拿不到。”他还质疑克林顿的“实力”和“耐力”，嘲笑她“大喊大叫”。此外，他今年还曾攻击克林顿是纵容有虐待女性前科的前总统的政治配偶。
Mrs. Clinton’s advisers say they are confident that such comments will galvanize Democrats — and infuriate nearly any woman who has ever had to work harder than a man. But they also recognize that Mr. Trump has proved adept at reading the electorate and at dominating news coverage — and that Mrs. Clinton must parry his attacks without overplaying her hand or further eroding her standing with male voters, whom she has struggled to win over in the Democratic primary.
克林顿的智囊表示，他们相信这样的评论是对民主党人的激励，并且会触怒几乎所有必须比男性更卖力工作的女性。但他们也承认，事实证明，特朗普善于解读选民心理，也善于占据媒体版面，而克林顿既要抵挡他的攻势，又不能把事情做过头或者让自己在男性选民中的支持率进一步下降——民主党初选过程中，她一直难以赢得这一群体的支持。
Mr. Trump’s advisers, meanwhile, say that the woman’s card attack serves to undermine Mrs. Clinton by sowing doubts about her qualifications — not just with men, but with white women, who have supported the Republican nominee in every election since 1996 and are vital to Mr. Trump’s chances in November.
特朗普的智囊则表示，攻击克林顿打女人牌，可以让男性选民乃至白人女性选民对克林顿的资质产生怀疑，进而削弱她的战斗力。从1996年开始，白人女性每逢大选都青睐共和党提名人，对特朗普能否在今年11月赢得胜利关系重大。
“He’s going to have to deconstruct Hillary Clinton if he’s going to run against her,” said Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime Trump confidant. “He can’t let her be the august secretary of state and former senator.”
“如果他接下来要和希拉里·克林顿对决，就必须将她彻底击垮，”特朗普长期以来的心腹小罗杰·J·斯通(Roger J. Stone Jr.)说。“他不能让她展现出位高权重的国务卿和前参议员的形象。”
Democrats say the strategy is an exercise in delusion, given Mr. Trump’s weakness among women: They are solidly in Mrs. Clinton’s corner against Mr. Trump so far in the polls. Fifty percent of white women said they would support her, to 39 percent for him, according to a CBS News poll in April.
民主党人称，鉴于特朗普不受女性选民的欢迎，这种策略根本就是异想天开：迄今为止的民调结果表明，女性选民坚定地站在克林顿而不是特朗普一边。CBS新闻频道(CBS News)在今年4月进行的民调显示，50%的白人女性表示会支持克林顿，特朗普的支持率则为39%。
“It seems like a real strategic misstep for him, considering he has unprecedented problems with women in his own party,” said Jess McIntosh, vice president of communications at Emily’s List, which works to elect Democrats who support abortion rights and is backing Mrs. Clinton.
“鉴于他与本党女性选民之间的关系前所未有地糟糕，对他而言这似乎是严重的战略失误，”埃米莉名单(Emily’s List)负责公关事宜的副主席杰丝·麦金托什(Jess McIntosh)说。埃米莉名单致力于为支持堕胎权的民主党候选人摇旗呐喊，目前是克林顿的后援团。
Some Republicans, similarly, cringed. “When people rally around her are when people bring things up about her husband’s infidelities and when it appears as though she’s being attacked by the boys’ club,” said Katie Packer, who runs an anti-Trump group and co-founded a consulting firm that helps Republicans communicate to women.
一些共和党人有着同样的顾虑。“当人们拿她丈夫的不忠说事儿的时候，当她看来正被男孩俱乐部围攻的时候，其实也是人们团结在她周围的时候，”一家反特朗普团体的负责人凯蒂·帕克(Katie Packer)说。帕克同时也是帮助共和党与女性选民沟通的一家咨询公司的联合创始人。
But even some Republican political operatives fiercely opposed to Mr. Trump say he is pursuing what could be a sound strategy by turning Mrs. Clinton’s chance to make history against her while deflecting scrutiny of his own weakness among female voters.
不过，就连一些强烈反对特朗普的共和党政治人士也说，他正在推行一个可能相当不错的策略：把克林顿创造历史的机会变成攻击她的武器，同时可以转移注意力，让人不那么关注他在女性选民中较低的支持率。
“By taking gender head-on, Trump refuses to cede women voters and so-called women’s issues to Hillary just because she is a woman,” said Kellyanne Conway, Republican a pollster who heads a “super PAC” supporting Senator Ted Cruz.
“通过在性别问题上的正面交锋，特朗普表明了一种姿态：他不会因为希拉里是女人，就把女性选民或者所谓的女性议题拱手相让，”共和党民意调查专家凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)说。康维领导着一个支持参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的“超级政治行动委员会”。
Since her victories on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton has met with advisers at her home in Chappaqua, N.Y., to discuss taking on Mr. Trump. A playbook is beginning to come together.
周二取得一系列胜利之后，克林顿在她位于纽约州查帕阔的家中会见了智囊团，讨论拿下特朗普的大计。相关方案正在成形。
On the debate stage, Mrs. Clinton will not respond in kind to personal attacks: No jokes about Mr. Trump’s hair or the size of his hands. When Mr. Trump’s comments dominate the news, her campaign plans to stick to its message, even if it means being momentarily eclipsed. And when Mr. Trump accuses Mrs. Clinton of playing the woman’s card, Mrs. Clinton will pivot to issues like equal pay for women, paid family and medical leave and raising the minimum wage.
面对人身攻击，辩论台上的克林顿不会以牙还牙，不会拿特朗普的头发或者他双手的尺寸开玩笑。当媒体争相报道特朗普的言论的时候，克林顿的竞选团队还是会坚持自己想要传达的讯息，即便这意味着与对方相比暂时失色。当特朗普指责克林顿打女人牌的时候，克林顿会快速把话题转向实现女性同工同酬、提供带薪家庭和医疗假期、提高最低工资标准等议题。
“This can’t be a tit for tat on comedic insults,” said Hilary Rosen, a Democratic strategist. But, she added, without the right pushback, Mr. Trump’s attacks “could have a corrosive impact, and that’s what the campaign is thinking hard about.”
“面对挪揄冒犯之辞，回应时不能针锋相对，”民主党策略师希拉里·罗森(Hilary Rosen)表示。但她还表示，如果不以恰当的方式给予驳斥，特朗普的攻击就“有可能造成负面影响，而克林顿的竞选团队正认真思考这个问题。”
Still, pushing back against Mr. Trump is unlikely to go unanswered. In January, after Mrs. Clinton accused him of being sexist, he warned that Bill Clinton’s sexual indiscretions would be fair game, accused Mrs. Clinton of impugning the reputations of women who accused her husband of sexual indiscretions, then boasted that Mrs. Clinton had been intimidated into dropping the subject.
不过，对特朗普的反击不大可能被置之不理。今年1月，在克林顿指责特朗普性别歧视之后，特朗普警告，讨论比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)私生活失检是公平的，他还谴责希拉里曾经质疑指控她丈夫性行为不当的那些女性的人品，然后洋洋得意地说，希拉里是被吓坏了才停止谈论这个话题。
In a sign of how closely Mrs. Clinton’s aides are watching Mr. Trump’s every step, after his advisers signaled last week that Mr. Trump would start behaving more “presidentially,” the Clinton campaign released an online ad, called “Extremist Makeover,” replaying some of his most controversial utterances about Muslims, immigrants and women. “When someone shows you who they are, believe them,” Mrs. Clinton said in the ad, quoting Maya Angelou.
希拉里的幕僚密切关注着特朗普的一举一动。举例来说，特朗普的智囊上周刚刚发出信号，他将会注意自己的言行举止，开始“有个总统的样子”，克林顿的竞选团队便发布了一支名为“极端主义者改头换面”(Extremist Makeover)的线上广告，历数特朗普此前发表的关于穆斯林、移民和女性的那些极具争议的言论。“当有人在你面前展现出自己的本性时，请相信他们，”克林顿在广告片结尾引用玛雅·安吉罗(Maya Angelou)的话说道。
But by Tuesday night, after Mr. Trump had appeared to shift course again, Clinton aides adjusted. In her victory speech in Philadelphia, Mrs. Clinton’s prepared remarks included a line meant to rev up women voters at Mr. Trump’s expense: “If fighting for women’s health care and paid family leave and equal pay is playing the ‘woman card,’ then deal me in,” she said.
然而，到了周二晚上，发现特朗普似乎再次转换风格之后，克林顿的幕僚也调整了策略。在费城发表胜选演讲时，克林顿事先准备好的发言稿里有一句话意在挑动女性选民的神经，让特朗普更加不受待见：“如果说为女性争取医疗福利和带薪家庭假期、力争实现同工同酬是打‘女人牌’，那么这桌牌我打定了，”她说。
On a private flight after Mrs. Clinton’s victory speech, her aides could hardly believe their luck when they learned that Mr. Trump, speaking about an hour later, had used the term woman’s card in his own victory speech.
克林顿发表胜选演后，其幕僚在私人飞机上听说，特朗普在克林顿演讲一个小时后也发表了胜选演讲，恰好用了“女人牌”这个说法。这些人简直不能相信己方竟有这样的好运。
A video that spliced Mr. Trump’s comments with Mrs. Clinton’s line was quickly sent out to her supporters without any further commentary.
他们在一段视频中把特朗普的言论和克林顿的那句话拼在一起，未做进一步评论，很快将视频转发给了克林顿的支持者。
Allies of both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump viewed the exchange on Tuesday night as an opening round in what will probably unfold in the months ahead. “I’m surprised they aren’t selling decks of cards yet,” said Tracy Sefl, a Democratic strategist who is supporting Mrs. Clinton. “They should just go nuts with it.”
克林顿和特朗普的盟友都把周二晚上的交锋视为很可能会在未来几个月里展开的一场大战的序幕。“我很惊讶他们居然还没开始推销扑克牌，”支持克林顿的民主党策略师特蕾西·塞夫(Tracy Sefl)说。“他们应该把牌卖疯了才对。”