The other night, a prominent Democrat I know made the craziest statement.
一天晚上，一位相识的民主党要人说了一段疯话。
“I don’t think Hillary’s going to run,” he proclaimed, silencing the room. He might as well have said that he’d just spotted Bigfoot pilfering rhubarb from the White House vegetable garden or that Arnold Schwarzenegger was in line to play Lear on Broadway. (“Cordelia, I’ll be baaaaack.”) He was humming some kind of loony tune.
“我认为希拉里不会参选，”此言一出，全场鸦雀无声。这就好比在说，他刚刚见到大脚怪(Bigfoot)在白宫菜园偷菜，或者阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)要去百老汇演《李尔王》。（“蔻蒂莉亚，我会回回回回回来的。”）他这是哼什么疯疯癫癫的小曲儿呢。
His evidence?
他有什么证据？
“She seems tired,” he said, and that’s when all of us cracked up. Oh, yeah, she seems positively exhausted. That explains the juggernaut of a book tour, the CNN town hall and all the other interviews, including the doozy with The Atlantic’s Jeffrey Goldberg, which I’ll turn to in a bit. If there was nap time in there, I missed it.
“她看上去累了，”他说。这话一出口，我们都笑了起来。是啊，她看起来绝对是疲惫的。难怪她的巡回售书和CNN市政厅问答等等采访那么气势如虹，包括跟《大西洋》月刊(The Atlantic)的杰弗里·戈德堡(Jeffrey Goldberg)那场奇妙的对话，我等会要说说这个。全过程有个打盹的时间吗？反正我没见到。
Without yet becoming president, she has ascended to some level of saturation exposure that’s above and beyond omnipresent. At this point she’s practically ambient. Her “inevitability” may boil down to the fact that no one can imagine a political ecosystem — nay, a habitable environment! — without her. When it comes to the Clintons, we apparently have two choices. Put them on Rushmore, or put them back in the White House.
还没成为总统，她的充分曝光就已经远远超出了“无所不在”的层次。此时此刻，她根本已经是一股气场。到最后，她将“不可避免地”成为政治生态体系——不对，是宜居环境！——中不可或缺的人物。对于克林顿这一家，我们显然只有两个选择：把他们放上拉什莫尔山，或者送他们回白宫。
And yet.
然而。
She is walking a tightrope, and the challenge and peril of it become clearer all the time. The question isn’t whether she’s running: Of course she is, and the only newsworthy announcement down the road would be that she’s getting out of the race. The question is whether she can belittle Barack Obama as much as she must in order to win, but not so much that it plays as an act of sheer betrayal.
她此刻是在走钢丝，挑战和危险一天天地清晰起来。问题不是她会不会参选：当然会，接下来唯一有新闻价值的消息将是她宣布放弃竞逐。问题在于，她能否把对贝拉克·奥巴马的贬低控制在合适的程度，一方面足以赢得选举，另一方面又不会显得是彻头彻尾的背叛？
She needs the voters who elected him, twice, and who maintain affection for him. She also needs the voters in the throes of buyer’s remorse. Many of them jilted her for their romance with him and now see it as a heady but heedless affair. Can she exploit that, but in a high-minded, diplomatic fashion?
她需要那些曾经两次选择他、至今仍喜欢他的选民。同时她也需要那些沉浸在“买家懊悔”中的选民。他们当中许多人出于对他的倾心抛弃了她，如今他们觉得那虽是一段令人心醉的情事，但实在是有些大意了。她能把这点利用起来，但方式上又保证够高尚、够得体吗？
Not on the evidence of her blunt and condescending remarks to Goldberg, which were published over the weekend.
从上周末发表的戈德堡访谈中她的坦率和高傲来看，似乎是不行。
With Obama’s approval ratings sinking lower, especially in the realm of foreign policy, she reiterated that he’d made the wrong call in not arming Syrian rebels. This time around she also suggested that the jihadists of ISIS wouldn’t be so potent if we’d gone a different route.
眼下奥巴马的支持率正滑向更低点，尤其是在外交政策领域，于是她再次强调，他做出了错误的决策，没有向叙利亚反对派提供武装。这次她又提出，要是我们采取了另一种策略，不至于让ISIS有那么大的本事。
But that wasn’t the surprise. Nor, really, were the words that she summoned — stronger than the president’s — to defend Israel’s military actions in Gaza.
但这并不是意外的地方。在为以色列的加沙军事行动进行辩护时的遣词造句——比总统的口气更强硬——也不算特别意外。
The clincher was this withering assessment of Obama’s approach to the world: “Great nations need organizing principles, and ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ is not an organizing principle.” A sagacious elder was rolling her eyes at a novice’s folly.
更具决定性的是，她在评估奥巴马的全球战略时使用的尖刻言辞：“伟大的国家需要有组织原则，‘不做傻事’并不算什么组织原则。”一位睿智的长者，在对毛头小子的傻念头表示不屑。
It wasn’t her only admonishment. “When you are hunkering down and pulling back, you’re not going to make any better decisions than when you were aggressively, belligerently putting yourself forward,” she said. “One issue is that we don’t even tell our own story very well these days.” That would presumably be the fault of the storyteller in chief.
这不是她唯一的劝诫。“当你妄自菲薄、画地自限的时候，做出的决定不会比强势出击、斗志昂扬的时候更好，”她说。“我们如今连自己的故事都无法说圆了，这是个问题。”这大概是我们的叙事统帅的错。
Her welling dissent leaves her exposed on several fronts. If decisions made while she was still the secretary of state were flawed, is she blameless? Sure, her job, like any appointee’s, was to implement the chief executive’s vision, to follow his lead. But it was also to lobby and leave an imprint. Is she conceding that she didn’t do that effectively enough?
这些喷涌而出的异议使她暴露出几个问题。如果她担任国务卿期间总统所做的决定存在问题，难道她就没有责任吗？当然，像任何受到委任的人一样，她的工作是实现总统的设想，听从他的领导。但进行游说并留下自己的印记，也属于她的工作范畴。她是在承认自己在这方面做得不够好吗？
Her dissent also subjects her to the charge that has long dogged her: Everything is calculation and calibration. Obama’s down, so she’s suddenly and gratuitously blunt, dismissing his doctrine as more of a ditty.
这种异议也致使她落入了一直困扰她的一项指责：每件事都经过了算计和权衡。奥巴马风头过了，因此她突然无端端地变得坦率起来，贬损他的信条不过是小儿科。
Clinton is in a bind, because the president is indeed ripe for second-guessing, and because she is and has to be her own person, with differences of opinion that are surely genuine.
克林顿处于两难的境地，因为确实到了对奥巴马提出事后批评的时候，也因为两人的意见分歧是真实存在的，她在坚持自我，也必须如此。
She must marvel at the strange turn of events. In the 2008 presidential campaign, she suffered for seeming too truculent in comparison with him, and he held her vote to authorize force in Iraq over her. Now she feels forced to make clear that she’s more truculent than he is, and his authorization of force in Iraq could have reverberations for his successor.
她一定感到很惊讶，世事如此变化无常。在2008年的总统竞选中，她看起来比他好斗，因而受到不利影响；她曾投票支持授权美军在伊拉克开展行动，因而受到他的钳制。如今，她却不得不表明，自己的确比他好斗，而他授权向伊拉克动武的决定可能给继任者带来诸多后果。