The victories were lopsided. The celebrations were effusive. The delegates were piling up by the hundreds.
胜利呈现出了一边倒的态势，庆祝的氛围热情洋溢。支持获胜者的代表人数增加了数百名。
But Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton’s resounding triumphs on Tuesday masked a profound, historic and unusual reality: Most Americans still don’t like him. Or her.
但唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)周二的大获全胜，掩盖了一个深层次的、历史性的、不同寻常的现实：大部分美国人还是不喜欢他们。
Both major parties must now confront the depth of skepticism, resistance and distaste for their front-runners, a sentiment that would profoundly shape a potential general election showdown between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton.
两大党现在都必须直面民众对这两名领先候选人的强烈质疑、抵触和反感。料将在特朗普与克林顿之间上演的大选对决，也会受到这种情绪的深刻影响。
Even as they watched the two candidates amass massive margins on Tuesday, historians and strategists struggled to recall a time when more than half of the country has held such stubbornly low opinions of the leading figures in the Democratic and Republican parties.
尽管周二当天眼看着两名候选人以巨大的优势获胜，但是全国超过半数的人对民主党和共和党的领先候选人长期保持如此低的评价，是历史专家和策略师们闻所未闻的。
“There is no analogous election in the modern era where the two top candidates for the nomination are as divisive and weak,” said Steve Schmidt, a top campaign adviser to George W. Bush in 2004 and John McCain in 2008. “There is no precedent for it.”
“两名领先的候选人这么有争议，胜算这么低，这在近现代的选举中没有过类似的情形，”曾在2004年乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)和2008年约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)竞选总统时担任高级竞选顾问的史蒂夫·施密特(Steve Schmidt)说。“这种情况史无前例。”
Mrs. Clinton’s commanding wins in the swing states of Ohio, North Carolina and Florida seemed to all but end the once robust challenge of Senator Bernie Sanders. And Mr. Trump’s dominance in Florida, North Carolina and Illinois knocked out Senator Marco Rubio and propelled Mr. Trumpeven closer to the Republican nomination.
克林顿在俄亥俄州、北卡罗来纳州和佛罗里达州这几个摇摆州的压倒性胜利，似乎完全终结了参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)一度有力的挑战。特朗普在佛罗里达州、北卡罗来纳州和伊利诺伊州的优势，淘汰了参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)，让自己离共和党的提名更进了一步。
This would be the moment, under normal circumstances, when the de facto nominees, emerging victorious from the intramural skirmishes of their party’s nominating contests, would invite an eager national electorate to take their measure. And in their victory speeches, both tried their best. Mrs. Clinton, speaking to supporters in West Palm Beach, Fla., asked for all Americans to “do their part” and “live up to their God-given potential” as she seeks to unite the country. Mr. Trump crowed that he would build a broad and winning coalition, saying, “All over the world they are talking about it.”
正常情况下，此时各党派料将拿到提名的候选人，就会从党内竞争中抽身，开始邀请全国各地急切的选民品评自己。在获胜演讲中，两人都尽了最大的努力。克林顿在佛罗里达州西棕榈滩对支持者发表讲话时寻求让全国团结起来，她请求全体美国人“尽一分力”，“不辜负上天赋予的潜力”。特朗普则卖力地表示，自己将建立一个广泛的、可以获胜的联盟，并称“全世界都在讨论这件事”。
But a fresh look is all but impossible.
但他们要想在选民中改头换面，恐怕难上加难。
The country has lived with Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton, in a remarkably intimate fashion, for decades, processing their controversies, achievements and setbacks, from impeachment to marital breakdowns, Senate victories to flashy skyscraper openings. Voters’ impressions of them, with few exceptions, are largely formed and fixed. According to Gallup, 53 percent of Americans have an unfavorable opinion of Mrs. Clinton and 63 percent have such a view of Mr. Trump.
数十年来，这个国家一直非常近距离地关注着特朗普和克林顿，了解他们的争议、成就和挫折，从弹劾到婚姻关系破裂，从参议院的胜利到艳俗的摩天大楼落成。选民对他们的印象基本上都已形成并固定了下来，鲜有例外。盖洛普(Gallup)的数据显示，53%的美国人对克林顿持负面评价，而对特朗普持负面评价的人则多达63%。
“You are talking about two universally known figures here,” said David Axelrod, the Democratic strategist and former White House adviser in the Obama White House. “The strong feeling that each generates is unusual.”
“这里涉及的是两个众所周知的人物，”民主党策略师、奥巴马政府前白宫顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说。“他们两个人都会激起强烈的感受。”
The negative perceptions will be difficult to overcome.
那些负面看法难以克服。
Fewer than half of Republican voters across five states on Tuesday said Mr. Trump was honest and trustworthy. Even in the states where he won, a majority of voters do not view him as truthful.
周二当天，在五个州里，不到一半的共和党选民认为特朗普诚实，值得信任。即便是在他获胜的那些州，多数选民也不认为他诚实。
And while majorities of Democratic voters viewed Mrs. Clinton as honest and trustworthy, she finished second to Mr. Sanders among those who said honesty mattered most in their decision.
尽管民主党多数选民认为克林顿诚实，值得信任，但在那些表示诚实是影响决策的最重要因素的选民中，克林顿的得票率排在第二位，不敌桑德斯。
That reality is forcing the Trump and Clinton campaigns to prepare for all-out warfare against each other, an improbably brutal dynamic for a pair of New Yorkers whose paths have crossed, repeatedly, for years — even on the way down the wedding aisle. (Mrs. Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, attended Mr. Trump’s third nuptials in 2005.)
这种现实迫使特朗普和克林顿的竞选团队准备开展全面战争，对于这两位纽约人来说，这是极其残酷的态势，他们多年来有过多次交集——就连婚礼上都是如此。（克林顿与丈夫前总统比尔·克林顿，在2005年参加了特朗普的第三次婚礼。）
They are crafting appeals that are as much arguments that their all-but-certain opponent would be disastrous for the nation as they are messages trumpeting their own virtues or character.
他们争相拉拢选民，一边辩称几乎可以确定的对手会给国家带来灾难，一边宣扬自己的优势或品质。
Aides to both predict that a Clinton-Trump contest would be an ugly and unrelenting slugfest, as she pounces on his business practices and personal integrity, portraying him as unscrupulous robber baron, and he lacerates her over ethical lapses and sudden riches, painting her as an untrustworthy abuser of power certain to be indicted in a federal investigation.
两人的助手估计，克林顿与特朗普之间的竞争将会是一场丑陋、无情的恶战。克林顿会抨击特朗普的商业行为和个人诚信问题，形容他是无耻的强盗资本家；特朗普则会批评她道德缺失，一夜暴富，称她滥用权力、不值得信赖，如果联邦开展调查，她肯定会被起诉。
There is, both sides concede, plenty of material to mine, stretching back to 1980s Arkansas (for her) and 1970s New York (for him).
双方都承认，两人都有很多料可以挖：克林顿的可以追溯到1980年代的阿肯色州，特朗普的则可以追溯到1970年代的纽约。
Voters are strikingly familiar with the candidates’ biographical vulnerabilities and political liabilities, interviews show, and they express disapproval in vivid, sweeping terms.
采访显示，选民们对于这两位候选人生平的弱点及政治软肋非常熟悉，他们用鲜明、概括的言辞表达了负面态度。
Kent Moore, 51, a Democrat from Charlotte, N.C., does not simply dislike Mrs. Clinton. He doubts her basic values.
北卡罗来纳州夏洛特的民主党选民——51岁的肯特·莫尔(Kent Moore)不仅仅是不喜欢克林顿。他还怀疑她的基本价值观。
“She has no moral center,” Mr. Moore said.
莫尔说，“她没有道德支柱。”
He can tick off her past sins: She favored free trade agreements that have killed American jobs, he said, and she supported the misbegotten 2003 war in Iraq.
他能够列举出克林顿过去的罪过。莫尔说，克林顿支持自由贸易协定，导致美国人失去了工作机会，她支持了2003年发动的卑劣的伊拉克战争。
How, he wondered, could she beat Mr. Trump with a record like that?
他怀疑，有这种记录的克林顿如何击败特朗普。
Even those who vote Mrs. Clinton harbor reservations. Renee White, 31, a Democrat in Youngstown, Ohio, is not entirely convinced that Mrs. Clinton, her choice in Tuesday’s primary, cares about people like her, she said.
就连那些投票支持克林顿的选民，也有保留意见。俄亥俄州扬斯敦的民主党选民，31岁的勒妮·怀特(Renee White)表示，她在周二的初选中选择了克林顿，但她并不完全相信，克林顿会在乎像她这样的人。
“A lot of people,” she said, “just don’t trust her at all.”
“很多人，”她说。“根本不信任她。”
The views of Mr. Trump from Republicans are almost equally uncharitable and unwavering.
共和党人对特朗普的看法几乎同样刻薄、坚定。
“Too crude and rude,” is how Nikki Heath, 59, a graphic artist from Columbus, Ohio, put it. She supports the state’s low-key, genial governor, John Kasich.
来自俄亥俄州哥伦布的平面艺术家，59岁的尼基·希思(Nikki Heath)认为，特朗普“太粗俗、粗鲁”。她支持该州低调、友好的州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)。
She has written off Mr. Trump and his antics as “an embarrassment.”
她认为特朗普不值一提，他的小丑姿态“很丢脸”。
The distaste is so strong that voters speak of a radical transformation (or personality transplant) required for them to even consider backing Mr. Trump.
这种厌恶感非常强烈，选民们称，就连考虑支持特朗普，都需要经历彻底的改变（或者人格移植）。
“He’s going to have to be completely different,” said Steve Rogers, an engineer.
工程师史蒂夫·罗格斯(Steve Rogers)表示，“他得完全变个人。”
Those dim assessments are not isolated, which is why the commanding tallies that Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton have collected is pushing both parties into uncharted waters. Should they clinch the nomination, it would represent the first time in at least a quarter century that majorities of Americans held negative views of the two front-runners at the same time.
这些负面评价并非个例，因此特朗普和克林顿的压倒性胜利，使两党都进入了未知水域。如果他们获得提名，这将是至少25年以来，首次出现大多数美国人对两名领跑者同时持消极看法的情况。
The highest unfavorability rating for any nominee or front-runner was 57 percent, for George H.W. Bush, in October 1992, as he emerged from a difficult first term in the White House. But his Democratic rival, Bill Clinton, was widely liked: Just 38 percent viewed him unfavorably, according to Gallup.
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在1992年10月的反对率达到57%，创下提名者或领跑者的最高反对率，当时他在白宫经历了困难的第一任期。但他的民主党对手比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)受到广泛欢迎：盖洛普调查显示，只有38%的人对他持负面态度。
The unpopularity of Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton is prompting Republicans and Democrats to contemplate unusual considerations at the ballot box.
特朗普和克林顿不受欢迎的情况，促使共和党人和民主党人对投票意向做出了不同寻常的思考。
Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who sought the Republican nomination president in 1980 and served as an Independent governor of Connecticut in the 1990s, said he held Mrs. Clinton in low regard. But he holds Mr. Trump in even greater contempt.
小洛厄尔·P·魏克尔(Lowell P. Weicker Jr.)曾在1980年角逐共和党总统候选人提名，1990年代在康涅狄格州以独立身份担任州长。他表示，他对克林顿评价不高。但他更鄙视特朗普。