Alexis Tsipras, leader of the left-wing Syriza coalition, is about to become prime minister of Greece. He will be the first European leader elected on an explicit promise to challenge the austerity policies that have prevailed since 2010. And there will, of course, be many people warning him to abandon that promise, to behave “responsibly.”
激进左翼联盟(Syriza)领导人亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)即将成为希腊总理。他将会成为财政紧缩在2010年成为主导政策以来，第一个靠明确承诺挑战该政策而当选的欧洲领导人。当然，还会有很多人警告他放弃这样的承诺，行动要“负责任”。
So how has that responsibility thing worked out so far?
那么“负责任”这回事儿到目前为止效果如何？
To understand the political earthquake in Greece, it helps to look at Greece’s May 2010 “standby arrangement” with the International Monetary Fund, under which the so-called troika — the I.M.F., the European Central Bank and the European Commission — extended loans to the country in return for a combination of austerity and reform. It’s a remarkable document, in the worst way. The troika, while pretending to be hardheaded and realistic, was peddling an economic fantasy. And the Greek people have been paying the price for those elite delusions.
要想理解希腊的政治地震，回顾一下希腊在2010年5月与国际货币基金组织(IMF)达成的“备用安排”(standby arrangement)不无裨益。根据这一安排，所谓的“三驾马车”，即IMF、欧洲央行(European Central Bank)和欧盟委员会(European Commission)，向希腊提供贷款，并要求希腊采取财政紧缩和改革相结合的举措。这份文件之所以值得关注，是因为它极其糟糕。尽管三驾马车装出了理智和实际的样子，但它事实上却在贩卖一种经济幻想。而希腊民众一直在为精英的妄想付出代价。
You see, the economic projections that accompanied the standby arrangement assumed that Greece could impose harsh austerity with little effect on growth and employment. Greece was already in recession when the deal was reached, but the projections assumed that this downturn would end soon — that there would be only a small contraction in 2011, and that by 2012 Greece would be recovering. Unemployment, the projections conceded, would rise substantially, from 9.4 percent in 2009 to almost 15 percent in 2012, but would then begin coming down fairly quickly.
你看，随备用安排提出的经济预期认为，希腊可以实行严苛的财政紧缩，而且对经济增长和就业不会产生什么冲击。协议达成时，希腊已经陷入了衰退，但经济预期却认为，经济下行很快就会结束，在2011年只会发生有限的经济收缩，到2012年希腊经济就会复苏。这种经济预期认为，失业率会大幅上升，从2009年的9.4%，提高到2012年的近15%，但很快就会下降。
What actually transpired was an economic and human nightmare. Far from ending in 2011, the Greek recession gathered momentum. Greece didn’t hit the bottom until 2014, and by that point it had experienced a full-fledged depression, with overall unemployment rising to 28 percent and youth unemployment rising to almost 60 percent. And the recovery now underway, such as it is, is barely visible, offering no prospect of returning to precrisis living standards for the foreseeable future.
然而实际发生的情形，却是一场经济和人道噩梦。希腊的衰退远未在2011年结束，反而还大幅加深。希腊的境遇到2014年才触及谷底，当时该国已经体验到了全面的萧条，整体失业率提高到了28%，青年失业率提高到了将近60%。而当下发生的复苏则徒有其名，几乎观察不到什么迹象，它也无法让希腊人在可预见的未来，看到生活水准回到危机之前的前景。
What went wrong? I fairly often encounter assertions to the effect that Greece didn’t carry through on its promises, that it failed to deliver the promised spending cuts. Nothing could be further from the truth. In reality, Greece imposed savage cuts in public services, wages of government workers and social benefits. Thanks to repeated further waves of austerity, public spending was cut much more than the original program envisaged, and it’s currently about 20 percent lower than it was in 2010.
是哪里出问题了？我经常遇到一些看法，称希腊没有兑现承诺，未能实行承诺的开支削减，所以才产生了这样的效果。但真相绝非如此。实际上，希腊大幅削减公共服务、政府雇员工资和社会福利。由于一波接一波的紧缩举措，公共开支的削减幅度超出了最初计划的预期，当前水平比2010年降低了20%。
Yet Greek debt troubles are if anything worse than before the program started. One reason is that the economic plunge has reduced revenues: The Greek government is collecting a substantially higher share of G.D.P. in taxes than it used to, but G.D.P. has fallen so quickly that the overall tax take is down. Furthermore, the plunge in G.D.P. has caused a key fiscal indicator, the ratio of debt to G.D.P., to keep rising even though debt growth has slowed and Greece received some modest debt relief in 2012.
然而希腊的债务问题与项目启动前相比，只有恶化没有改善。一个原因是经济受到重创也影响了政府收入：希腊政府征收的税款占GDP的比例，与过去相比明显提高了，然而由于GDP下降如此之快，税收收入总额却下降了。此外，GDP大幅缩水也导致了一个关键财政指标，即债务在GDP中的占比持续提高，尽管希腊的债务增长已经放缓，而且还在2012年取得了小额的债务减免。
Why were the original projections so wildly overoptimistic? As I said, because supposedly hardheaded officials were in reality engaged in fantasy economics. Both the European Commission and the European Central Bank decided to believe in the confidence fairy — that is, to claim that the direct job-destroying effects of spending cuts would be more than made up for by a surge in private-sector optimism. The I.M.F. was more cautious, but it nonetheless grossly underestimated the damage austerity would do.
为什么最初的预期乐观到了过头的地步？就像我说的，那些所谓理智的官员，实际上从事的是幻想经济学。欧盟委员会和欧洲央行决定相信这种诓人的童话——即宣称私营部门高涨的乐观情绪，可以大大弥补削减开支造成的摧毁就业的直接效果。IMF较为警惕，但它还是严重低估了财政紧缩可能造成的损害。
And here’s the thing: If the troika had been truly realistic, it would have acknowledged that it was demanding the impossible. Two years after the Greek program began, the I.M.F. looked for historical examples where Greek-type programs, attempts to pay down debt through austerity without major debt relief or inflation, had been successful. It didn’t find any.
重点在于：如果当初三驾马车真的务实，就应该承认自己的要求是不可能做到的。希腊的项目开始两年后，IMF在历史案例中极力寻找，试图找出希腊式方案最终取得成功的案例，即通过财政紧缩偿清债务，且没有依靠大规模债务减免和通胀的情况。但IMF什么都没找到。
So now that Mr. Tsipras has won, and won big, European officials would be well advised to skip the lectures calling on him to act responsibly and to go along with their program. The fact is they have no credibility; the program they imposed on Greece never made sense. It had no chance of working.
齐普拉斯现已获胜，而且是大胜。欧洲官员实在不应该呼吁他负责任地行动，而是应该顺应他的计划。事实是，他们没有公信力，他们强加给希腊的方案一开始就没有道理，根本没有奏效的可能。
If anything, the problem with Syriza’s plans may be that they’re not radical enough. Debt relief and an easing of austerity would reduce the economic pain, but it’s doubtful whether they are sufficient to produce a strong recovery. On the other hand, it’s not clear what more any Greek government can do unless it’s prepared to abandon the euro, and the Greek public isn’t ready for that.
如果说激进左翼联盟的方案有什么问题，那就是还不够激进。债务减免和放松紧缩政策可以缓解经济上的痛苦，但这些举措是否足以催生强劲的复苏还不确定。另一方面，人们并不清楚任何一个希腊政府还能再做些什么，除非它准备抛弃欧元，而希腊公众还没做好这种准备。