ATHENS — An unexpected new effort by Greece to compromise with its creditors on a bailout package prompted a cool response from most of the rest of Europe on Wednesday as efforts to find a way out of the financial crisis confronting Athens remained chaotic.
雅典——周三，为与债权人就一项援助计划达成妥协，希腊采取了令人意外的新举措，但欧洲其他大部分地区对此反应冷淡。希腊为摆脱自身所面临的金融危机而做的努力仍然没有头绪。
On another day of twists and turns, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras’s government said it would be willing to accept many of the terms of a bailout package that it had previously rejected, if they are part of a broader deal to address the country’s funding needs for the next two years.
经过又一天的迂回曲折，希腊总理亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)表示，希腊政府将愿意接受之前曾拒绝的一项援助计划中的许多条款，条件是双方在此之外达成涵盖面更广的协议，帮助解决希腊接下来两年的资金需求。
While reviving hopes for a deal to end Greece’s financial crisis, the seeming reversal by Mr. Tsipras underscored the confusion over his strategy and the status of the negotiations. The sudden turn of events raised questions about what offer was still on the table for Greece, whether Mr. Tsipras would go ahead with a referendum scheduled for Sunday and, if so, what deal Greeks would actually be voting on.
齐普拉斯这一表面上的逆转行动，尽管为再度达成结束希腊金融危机的协议带来希望，却让人们更加看不清他的策略和目前的谈判格局。形势的急转直下让人们产生一些疑问，比如目前的情况下希腊还能从谈判中得到什么；齐普拉斯是否还会在周日举行全民公投；如果进行公投，希腊人民到底就什么协议进行投票。
In a letter sent on Tuesday to the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other eurozone countries, Mr. Tsipras said Greece was “prepared to accept” a deal set out over the weekend by the creditors, with small modifications to some points of contention: pension cuts and tax increases. In the letter, released publicly on Wednesday, Mr. Tsipras linked Greece’s acceptance of the terms to a new package of aid that would need to be negotiated.
周二，齐普拉斯给欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)、国际货币基金组织(IMF)和其他欧元区国家发出一封信函，表示希腊“准备接受”债权人在上周末提出的一项协议，只在几个有争议的地方（削减养老金和增加税收）做些小改动。在这封周三被公开的信函中，齐普拉斯还表示，希腊能否接受这些条款，取决于双方能否商讨出新的援助计划。
Mr. Tsipras went on television Wednesday afternoon, telling Greeks that they should vote no on the referendum to improve his negotiating position.
周三下午，齐普拉斯在电视上发表讲话，呼吁希腊人民在全民公投中投反对票，以增加他在谈判中的筹码。
But European leaders fed up with Mr. Tsipras and in no mood for quick compromise, dashed any hopes of an immediate breakthrough.
但欧洲国家领导人受够了齐普拉斯，无心快速达成妥协，短时间内实现突破的希望也就此破灭。
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Dutch finance minister, said in a statement after a conference call of the Eurogroup of finance ministers that there would be no more discussion with Greece until after the referendum.
在欧元区国家财务部长组成的欧元集团(Eurogroup)的一个电话会议之后，荷兰财政部长耶霍恩·戴塞尔布卢姆(Jeroen Dijsselbloem)发表声明，他表示在希腊全民公投结束之前，欧盟不会再和希腊进行任何谈判。
“We see no grounds for further talks at this point,” he said.
“此时此刻，我们觉得没有进行进一步谈判的理由，”他说道。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who met Wednesday with Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy, repeated her position that there should be no negotiations until after Greece holds its referendum — a vote that many European leaders hoped would amount to a rebuke of Mr. Tsipras.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel )周三与意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)见面时，重申了她的立场，即希腊举行全民公投结束之前，不应再有任何谈判。很多欧洲国家领导人都期待，齐普拉斯会因这此公投而成众矢之的。
“The overarching goal has always been to create a union of stability in Europe, with responsibility and corresponding rewards,” the chancellor said.
“我们的首要目标一直是，在欧洲创造一个稳定的联盟，这个联盟要担负一定责任，也会有相应的回报，”默克尔说道。
At a news conference in Berlin, Mr. Renzi appeared even more impatient with Greece than his German host did, calling the decision to hold a referendum an “error.”
在柏林举行的一场新闻发布会上，伦齐对希腊表现得比东道主德国还不耐烦，直接称举行公投的决定是一个“错误”。
Whenever further talks resume, they are likely to be complex and contentious. An existing bailout agreement expired at midnight Tuesday, meaning that Greece and its creditors would have to start over in assembling a package of aid and budget cuts. Moreover, many European officials remain deeply skeptical about whether Mr. Tsipras’s leftist government would implement the more painful elements of any agreement.
不管谈判在何时重启，它都有可能会是非常复杂和有争议的。之前摆在桌面上的援助计划在周二午夜已经失效，意味着希腊及其债权人将不得不重新商议一份新的援助和预算削减计划。此外，不管将来达成什么协议，都少不了一些更痛苦的条款，而对于齐普拉斯的左翼政府将来是否会执行这些条款，很多欧洲官员都深表怀疑。
In his televised address to Greek voters, Mr. Tsipras said that despite European characterizations, the vote Sunday was simply about a deal on how to manage the country’s debt crisis and not a vote on whether to leave the euro as the country’s currency.
在对希腊选民发表的电视讲话中，齐普拉斯表示，尽管周日的公投带有欧洲属性，但它只是针对希腊如何应对自己的债务危机，并非要决定希腊是否退出欧元区。
“No does not mean a rift with Europe,” he said. “But a return to a Europe with principles.”
“它也不意味着希腊要与欧洲决裂，”他说道。“而是要回到一个有原则的欧洲。”
He also assured his country that he would continue to negotiate this week and after the referendum. And he thanked Greeks for staying calm in hard times. “This situation is short term and will not go on for long,” he said.
他还保证，在本周接下来的时间里，以及周日公投结束之后，他会继续争取谈判机会。他感谢希腊人民在这样的艰难时期依然保持冷静。他表示，“这种局面是暂时的，不会持续太久。”
The change of tone from Mr. Tsipras, who in recent days had vehemently opposed the terms sought by the creditors, came hours after Greece missed a debt payment to the I.M.F., leaving Greece effectively in default and raising the pressure on the country to find a solution to its rapidly escalating financial squeeze. With its banking system shut down and access to more aid cut off, Greece faced the prospect of further debt defaults and the possibility of being forced to abandon the euro as its currency.
之前几天齐普拉斯还言辞激烈地反对债权人提出的一些协议条款，他在希腊赔偿IMF债务的最后时间点过去几小时之后开始调转口风。错过最后时限，意味着希腊正式债务违约，也使它面临更大压力，要为快速加剧的财政困难尽快寻找出路。银行系统已经关闭，获得更多外部援助遇阻，希腊面临进一步的债务违约，而且有可能被迫退出欧元区。
The European Central Bank left the amount of emergency credit available to Greek banks at 89 billion euros after a regularly scheduled meeting that ended Wednesday, a central bank spokesman said.
在周三举行的一次常规会议结束之后，欧洲中央银行发言人表示，该机构可以为希腊的银行提供的紧急流动资金依然维持在890亿欧元（约合6110亿人民币）。
An increase in the level would have exposed the European Central Bank to even greater losses if the banks are unable to repay. A decrease would have created an even more serious cash crunch and possibly caused some banks to fail.
如果将这一资金额度调高，一旦希腊各个银行不能还款，欧洲中央银行将蒙受更大损失。而将额度调低，又会引发更严重的现金流动性问题，可能导致有些银行倒闭。
Further action by the European Central Bank may come after the referendum. If Greeks vote not to accept the conditions, the central bank might have no choice but to stop lending to Greek banks.
欧洲中央银行可能会在希腊公投之后采取进一步行动。如果投票结果是拒绝接受债权人的条件，那么欧洲中央银行将别无选择，只能停止向希腊银行贷款。
The situation left unclear what Greeks would be voting on Sunday. The referendum’s wording was to ask Greeks to vote yes or no on whether they supported the terms offered by creditors last week — an offer that in effect expired with the existing bailout package on Tuesday night, and that appears to have been supplanted in any case by the offer put forward by Mr. Tsipras.
至于希腊选民究竟要就什么进行投票，目前还不明确。官方的措辞是，要求选民就是否接受债权人上周提出的协议条款，投支持或反对票。而债权人之前提出的条件及其包含的援助计划已经在周二夜间失效，而它似乎已经被齐普拉斯的新提议所取代。
A recent poll found majority support for Mr. Tsipras’s call to vote no in the referendum, though that support shrank after the banks were closed and a cap of 60 euros per day was put on the amount that Greeks could withdraw from A.T.M.s.
最近的一项民意调查显示，齐普拉斯向选民发出的在公投中投反对票的呼吁，得到了多数人支持。不过，这一支持率后来有所下降，因为银行关闭，而且希腊人每天在ATM机上取款的最高额度被限制在60欧元。