LONDON — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said about Greece on Sunday that “the most important currency has been lost: that is trust and reliability.” But many Germans think the most important currency that has been lost is the deutsche mark, the symbol of rectitude and confidence that embodied West Germany’s ascent from the ashes of World War II.
伦敦——德国总理安格拉·默克尔周日说起希腊时称，“最重要的货币已经不存在了，那就是信任和可靠”。但很多德国人认为，失去的最重要的货币其实是德国马克。作为正直和信心的符号，它象征着西德从二战灰烬中的崛起。
That same sense of solidity is badly lacking in the European Union as it confronts the limits of its ambitions, and Monday morning’s painful deal on Greece seems unlikely to restore it.
面对雄心壮志受到的限制，欧盟也非常缺乏这种稳固感，而周一早上就希腊问题达成的令人痛苦的协议，似乎不太可能恢复这种感觉。
The latest effort to preserve Greek membership in the eurozone has only deepened the fissures within the European Union between north and south, between advanced economies and developing ones, between large countries and smaller ones, between lenders and debtors, and, just as important, between those 19 countries within the eurozone and the nine European Union nations outside it.
为保留希腊的欧元区成员身份而采取的最新行动，只是加深了欧盟内部北方和南方、先进经济体和发展中国家、大国和较小的国家、债主和债务人的裂痕，而欧元区的19个成员国和未加入欧元区的九个欧盟国家之间的分歧，也同样严重。
In the name of preserving the “European project” and European “solidarity,” the ultimatum put to Greece required something close to the surrender of the nation’s sovereignty. For all of Greece’s past sins, and for all of the gamesmanship and harsh talk of the governing Syriza party, this outcome arguably had elements of punishment as well as fiscal responsibility.
以维持“欧洲计划”和欧洲“团结”之名，最后通牒对希腊提出的要求近似于让其交出主权。鉴于希腊此前的错误，以及执政党激进左翼联盟(Syriza)的花招和粗鲁言辞，这个结果可以说兼有财政责任和惩罚的成分。
Whether this is good or bad for Greece, in the end, the Greeks will decide. But it averted an outcome that could have left Europe even more badly fractured. And it highlighted the willingness of some leaders to make a compelling case for unity over narrow national interest, especially President François Hollande of France, who played an important role in mediating between Germany and Greece.
不管这对希腊是有利还是有害，最后都将由希腊民众决定。但它避免了一个可能会让欧洲更加四分五裂的结果，并且突显出一些领导人愿意提出令人信服的理由支持统一，反对狭隘的国家利益，特别是在德国和希腊的调解中发挥了重要作用的法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)。
Unpopular and yet contemplating another run for the presidency in 2017, Mr. Hollande displayed leadership and distanced himself from Ms. Merkel and German demands, which many in Europe, especially in France, saw as selfishness and even vindictiveness.
不受欢迎但却打算在2017年谋求连任的奥朗德展现出了领导能力，他跟默克尔和德国的要求保持了距离。在欧洲，特别是法国，很多人视那些要求为自私，甚至是报复。
On Monday, Mr. Hollande said that “even if it was long, I think for Europe this was a good night and a good day.” That is true, given the alternatives.
周一当天，奥朗德称“尽管漫长，但我认为对欧洲而言，这是美好的一夜和一天。”从备选方案来看，的确如此。
But it will be even better if the European Union can now, after so many years, lift its head from its euro crisis and begin to concentrate on other critical issues: providing economic growth and jobs for its young people, a rational and unified policy on migration, a response to Russian ambitions in Ukraine and elsewhere, and a British vote on whether to leave the European Union.
但在这么多年后，如果欧盟现在能抬起头，将视线从欧元危机移开，开始把精力集中在其他关键问题上，也许会更美好，比如为年轻人提供经济增长和就业岗位、合理而统一的移民政策、对俄罗斯在乌克兰和其他地方的野心做出回应，以及英国就是否退出欧盟举行的投票。
A so-called Brexit — an exit by Britain, which is expected to overtake France as Europe’s second-largest economy and is one of Europe’s main military and diplomatic actors, with a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council — would be far more damaging to the European Union than the departure of small, difficult Greece.
人们口中的“英国退出”对欧盟的破坏，远比面积小、经济困难的希腊大。英国有望取代法国，成为欧洲的第二大经济体。身为联合国安理会常任理事国的英国，也是欧洲主要的军事和外交参与者之一。
Britain, which never joined the euro currency bloc, plans to hold a referendum by the end of 2017 on whether to remain a member of the European Union, and Prime Minister David Cameron is negotiating now to change Britain’s terms of membership. The mess over Greece has hardly helped the reputation of the European Union inside Britain, but it may also help Mr. Cameron secure a better deal.
从未加入欧元区的英国，计划在2017年年底之前就是否继续留在欧盟举行公投。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)目前正在为更改英国的成员国条款进行谈判。在英国国内，希腊问题引发的混乱对欧盟的名声没什么好处，但却可能有助于卡梅伦获得一份更好的协议。
And the challenge to the post-Cold War order in Europe posed by a newly revanchist Russia is a bigger threat to European ideals of peace and stability than Brussels seems to understand.
此外，新近显露出收复失地打算的俄罗斯，对冷战后的欧洲秩序构成的挑战，对欧洲的和平和稳定理念的威胁，欧盟似乎没有充分认识到。
Together with the migration crisis and Greece, these represent “the four horsemen” circling around Europe’s future, said Rem Korteweg of the Center for European Reform, a research institution based in London.
总部位于伦敦的研究机构欧洲改革中心(Center for European Reform)的雷姆·科特韦格(Rem Korteweg)说，它们和移民危机及希腊问题一起，将是未来围着欧洲转的“启示录四骑士”。
“The four horsemen threaten the E.U. precisely because they raise issues that can only be solved if governments prioritize a European solution over narrow national agendas,” he said. “If a European answer cannot be found, the horsemen will continue to promote chaos, instability and mutual recrimination” within the European Union.
“这四骑士之所以威胁到欧盟，恰恰是因为它们提出的问题，只有各国政府着眼欧洲，把狭隘的本国议题暂置一旁，才能得到解决，”他说。“如果找不到着眼于欧洲的答案，这些骑士就会继续”在欧盟内部“增加混乱、动荡和相互指责”。
As for Ms. Merkel, her reputation hangs in the balance, at home and in her role as Europe’s de facto leader. Having rejected a Greek exit from the eurozone three years ago in the name of European solidarity, she has again avoided that outcome. This time, she risked considerable cost to her political standing at home. But what would really damage her legacy is another expensive bailout for Greece that fails.
对默克尔来说，她的声望有赖于其国内和欧洲事实领导人这双重角色之间的平衡。三年前就以欧洲团结的名义拒绝希腊退出欧元区的默克尔，再次避免了这个结果。这一次，她是冒着在国内的政治地位会遭受很大损失的风险。但真正会有损她政绩的，是又一次耗费重资但以失败告终的希腊救援。
Greece was allowed into the eurozone for largely the same reasons, wishful politics, that put ancient Greece, the core of European culture, at the heart of a European ideal built on civilization and peace. The fact that today’s Greece bears little relationship to the country of Socrates or Pericles was simply ignored. And so was clear evidence, well-known at the time in Brussels, that the Greeks were regularly faking their budgetary figures to qualify for the euro.
希腊获许进入欧元区，和作为欧洲文化核心的古希腊，成为以文明与和平为基础的欧洲理念的核心，在很大程度上是出于同样的理由，一种表达意愿的政治。今天的希腊与苏格拉底或伯里克利时代的那个国家几乎没有关系这个事实，完全被忽略了。希腊为确保欧元资格频频伪造预算数据，这是有明确证据的，而且在布鲁塞尔人尽皆知，但也被忽略了。
The magical thinking involved was that the euro, somehow shorn of politics, would bring all these different economies into closer balance. The last decade has proved that to be illusory. And Monday’s deal — if it is ratified by an angry Greek Parliament, and by an unhappy German Parliament, and not derailed by smaller countries like Finland with coalition governments that depend on the support of euroskeptic parties — will avert the debacle of a country leaving the common currency for the first time. But by itself, it will do little to strengthen the future of the euro, and it might simply prolong the agony and deepen the divisions.
其中涉及的神奇思维是，欧元不知怎么就摆脱了政治的牵制，让所有这些不同的经济体更接近平衡。过去十年证明，那是错觉。如果得到愤怒的希腊议会和感到不快的德国议会的批准，并且不会因芬兰等由联合政府——它们需要对欧元持怀疑态度的政党的支持——执政的较小国家而破产，周一的协议将首次避免一个国家因为放弃欧元而崩溃。但协议本身几乎无助于巩固欧元的未来，而且可能还会延长痛苦，加深分歧。
For many in Europe, the euro’s economic benefits have been offset by the constraints it imposes. For the weaker economies in particular, it has become a sort of prison, limiting the ability of elected governments to use budgetary policy to smooth out the ups and downs of the economic cycle and eliminating their use of currency fluctuations to help manage national economies.
对很多欧洲人来说，欧元的经济效益已经被它产生的制约抵消了。特别是对更脆弱的经济体而言，它已经成了一种毒药，限制了当选政府用财政预算政策应对经济周期起伏的能力，使其无法利用汇率波动来帮助管理国民经济。
For Greece, the crisis five years ago was a chance to create a modern democratic capitalist state, which was one of the reasons to join the European Union in the first place. Many Greeks suffered, the debt mountain grew, and finally, as long predicted, the economic squeeze produced a political revolt — and just as Greece finally seemed to have turned an important corner and was running a primary surplus, in other words, financing its current budget and having something left over to pay its debts.
对于希腊而言，五年前的危机是一个机会，让它建立起现代化的民主资本主义国家，这也是它加入欧盟的首要原因之一。很多希腊人在债务累积如山的境况中煎熬，终于，就像一些人早就预测的那样，经济紧缩导致了政治反抗——而这正是希腊似乎最终看到了一些曙光，拥有了原始盈余的时候，换句话说，也就是能够负担起目前的预算，并留存一些资金来偿还债务的时候。