ATHENS — Alexis Tsipras, the leftist political maverick who swept to power on Sunday in Greece in a popular rebellion, formed a new coalition government on Monday with a right-wing fringe party that will charge immediately into the task of reversing wrenching austerity policies and negotiating with European leaders to reduce Greece’s debt burden.
雅典——独行其是的左派政客亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)周日被希腊公众的反叛情绪推上台后，于周一与一个右翼边缘政党组建了新的联合政府，新政府将立即担负起逆转令人痛苦的紧缩政策的任务，并将与欧洲领导人谈判减轻希腊债务负担的问题。
Panos Kammenos, the leader of the coalition partner, Independent Greeks, told reporters shortly after meeting with Mr. Tsipras on Monday morning that the two had formed a new government. The Independent Greeks, who won 4.7 percent of the national vote, have often taken a hard line against austerity and might push for tough terms in any debt talks.
参与联合政府的独立希腊人党(Independent Greeks)的党魁帕诺斯·卡梅诺斯(Panos Kammenos)周一与齐普拉斯会谈后不久对记者表示，两党已组建了新政府。独立希腊人党赢得了全国选票的4.7%，该党对紧缩政策常采取强硬的反对立场，可能在任何债务谈判中努力争取更苛刻的条款。
It was not immediately clear how the power would be shared, but Mr. Tsipras planned to go to the Greek presidential compound in the early afternoon to formally receive the mandate to form a government.
目前尚不清楚联合政府将如何共享权力，齐普拉斯预定将在午后前往希腊总统府，正式得到组建政府的授权。
“I want to announce that from this moment the country has a government,” Mr. Kammenos told reporters after about an hour of talks with Mr. Tsipras.
卡梅诺斯与齐普拉斯会谈了约一小时后对记者说，“我要宣布，从此时开始，国家有了一个政府。”
“The Independent Greeks give our vote of confidence to the prime minister, Alexis Tsipras,” he said.
“独立希腊人党把我们的信任票投给了历克西斯·齐普拉斯总理，”他说。
Mr. Kammenos added that Mr. Tsipras would visit President Karolos Papoulias later on Monday to be sworn in as prime minister and then announce the composition of the new Greek government “in which Independent Greeks will participate.”
卡梅诺斯补充说，齐普拉斯将在周一晚些时候前往卡罗洛斯·帕普利亚斯总统(President Karolos Papoulias)府邸，宣誓就职总理，然后将宣布希腊新政府的组成，其中将有“独立希腊人党参与”。
European finance ministers meeting in Brussels on Monday were expected to put the developments in Greece high on their agenda. Martin Schulz, the president of the European Parliament, told a German radio station on Monday morning that he had congratulated Mr. Tsipras immediately after the election but had told him that Greece should not expect significant financial concessions from creditors.
周一在布鲁塞尔召开的欧洲财长会议预计会把希腊的事态发展作为首要议事日程。欧洲议会会长马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schulz)周一上午对一家德国广播电台表示，他在选举结果出来之后马上向齐普拉斯表示了祝贺，但也告诉齐普拉斯，希腊不应指望从债权人那里得到明显的金融让步。
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain was more blunt. “The Greek election will increase economic uncertainty across Europe,” he said on Twitter.
英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)则更加直言不讳。他在Twitter上写道：“希腊大选结果将增加整个欧洲经济的不确定性。”
With nearly all the votes counted, Mr. Tsipras’s Syriza party had won 36.3 percent of votes and secured 149 seats in the Greek Parliament, short of the 151 that he needed to secure an outright majority.
几乎所有的选票都已计数完毕，齐普拉斯的激进左翼联盟(Syriza)赢得了36.3％的选票，在希腊议会中共获得了149个席位，略低于他获得绝对多数所需的151个席位。
New Democracy, led by the defeated incumbent prime minister, Antonis Samaras, took 27.8 percent of the votes. The neo-facist Golden Dawn party, whose popularity has increased amid economic hardship, won 6.3 percent of votes, coming in third.
现任总理安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)领导的新民主党(New Democracy)在选举中失利，赢得了27.8％的选票。在经济困难中日益受大众欢迎的新纳粹党金色黎明党(Golden Dawn party)赢得了6.3％的选票，名列第三。
Syriza has become the first anti-austerity party to take power in a eurozone country and to shatter the two-party establishment that has dominated Greek politics for four decades.
激进左翼联盟成为欧元区中第一个赢得政权的反紧缩政策的政党，也是首次打破了已经统治希腊政坛四十年的两党体制的政党。
Mr. Tsipras’s victory represented a rejection of the harsh economics of austerity. It also sent a warning to the rest of Europe, where continuing economic weakness has stirred a populist backlash, with more voters growing fed up with policies that have required sacrifices to meet the demands of creditors but have failed to deliver more jobs and prosperity.
齐普拉斯的胜利代表了对紧缩政策带来的恶劣经济的否决。这也对欧洲其他国家发出了警告，欧洲持续的经济疲软已经激发起民粹主义的强烈抵制，越来越多的选民对紧缩政策产生不满，这种政策让老百姓为满足债权人的要求做出牺牲，但并未给他们提供更多的就业与繁荣。
Now that he has formed a coalition, Mr. Tspiras must quickly determine which of his populist promises he can carry out quickly, setting up a likely showdown with Greece’s European partners. Mr. Tsipras has said he wants to negotiate directly with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and other European leaders to reduce Greece’s debt burden.
现在，齐普拉斯已经组建了联和政府，他必须尽快确定自己的民粹主义承诺中，哪些能够尽快得到实现，这将导致他可能与希腊的欧洲伙伴摊牌。齐普拉斯已经表示，他希望与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)及其他欧洲领导人就减轻希腊的债务负担进行直接谈判。
Some officials, however, have characterized Mr. Tsipras’s demands as unrealistic and rife with the potential to drive Greece toward default or even out of the eurozone, the group that shares the currency.
但是，有些官员称齐普拉斯的要求不切实际，充满了把希腊推向债务违约、甚至退出欧元区的可能性，欧元区是使用这个货币的国家的统称。
Officials in Germany reacted swiftly, warning Greeks against abandoning their course of overhauls.
德国官员迅速作出反应，警告希腊人不要放弃自己的改革进程。
“The Greeks have the right to elect whoever they want; we have the right to no longer finance Greek debt,” Hans-Peter Friedrich, a senior member of Ms. Merkel’s conservative bloc, told the daily newspaper Bild on Monday. “The Greeks must now pay the consequences and cannot saddle German taxpayers with them.”
默克尔的保守阵营的资深成员汉斯-皮特·费雷德里克(Hans-Peter Friedrich)周一对德国日报《图片报》(Bild)说，“希腊人有权选举任何他们想要的人当政；我们也有权不再为希腊债务融资。希腊人现在必须为此付出代价，不能让德国纳税人为他们埋单。”