European and Asian stock markets dropped on Monday but did not plunge, as investors reacted with muted dismay to the results of the Greek referendum and showed nervousness about steep declines in China’s stock market over the past three weeks.
由于投资者对希腊公投结果的较弱不满反应，加上对中国股市在过去三周的急剧下降有所担忧，欧洲和亚洲的股市周一出现下落，但并未暴跌。
The Euro Stoxx 50 index, which groups blue-chip shares from across the eurozone, was down 1.9 percent in afternoon trading, after falling more than 2 percent at the opening. In London, the benchmark FTSE 100 index had dipped by only 0.6 percent in the afternoon.
代表整个欧元区主要蓝筹股的欧元斯托克50指数在下午的交易中跌了1.9％，该指数开盘时的跌幅曾超过2％。在伦敦，作为基准的金融时报100指数午后下跌只有0.6％。
Less than an hour before the opening in New York, Standard & Poor’s 500 index futures were down 0.8 percent, suggesting that stocks would fall modestly at the start.
在纽约股市开盘前一小时，标准普尔500指数期货下跌了0.8％，这表明股市将以小幅下跌开始交易。
The euro slipped less than 1 percent to $1.1018.
欧元汇率下降了不到1%，欧元兑美元为1.1018。
In Asia on Monday, the Shanghai market jumped sharply in early trading as the Chinese government poured money into brokerage firms to help them and their customers buy shares. The market leapt 7.8 percent at the start, but it surrendered half of those gains in the first 10 minutes of trading and closed 2.4 percent higher. The smaller Shenzhen stock market also started strongly but fell 2.7 percent by the end of trading.
周一在亚洲，随着中国政府将资金注入经纪公司，帮助它们及其客户购买股票，上海股市的早盘大幅攀升。上证指数开盘时曾跃升7.8％，但在最初10分钟的交易中丢掉了涨幅的一半，最终以2.4％的涨幅收盘。较小的深圳股市开盘时的涨幅亦非常强烈，但最终以下降2.7％结束交易。
Trading in Standard & Poor’s 500 index futures indicated that stocks would fall slightly at the opening in New York.
标准普尔500指数期货交易表明，纽约股市将在开盘时小幅下跌。
Philippe Gijsels, head of research at BNP Paribas Fortis Global Markets in Brussels, said the relatively subdued reaction showed “the market has gotten used to the strange things that have been going on with Greece.”
位于布鲁塞尔的法国巴黎银行富通全球市场部研究主管菲利普·海赛尔斯(Philippe Gijsels)表示，相对较弱的反应表明，“市场对希腊持续出现的怪事已习以为常。”
He said it also reflected investors’ confidence that Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, would take whatever action was necessary to soothe tensions at a moment of crisis.
他说，这也反映了投资者对欧洲央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)的信心，相信他会采取任何必要行动，来缓解危机时刻的紧张气氛。
“That’s preventing markets from going down too much,” Mr. Gijsels added.
“这防止了市场的过多下跌，”海赛尔斯补充道。
That sentiment was reflected in the bond market’s muted response. Bonds in Italy, Portugal and Spain, seen as the most exposed to any potential contagion from the Greek crisis, all fell, with their yields, which move in the opposition direction of prices, spiking higher — indicating that those governments’ borrowing costs could rise.
这种情绪也反映在债券市场的较弱反应上。意大利、葡萄牙和西班牙被认为最容易受希腊危机潜在蔓延的影响，这三国的债券都出现了下跌，导致其收益率上扬（债券收益率与价格的走向相反），意味着这些国家政府的借贷成本可能会上升。
In contrast, yields on British, German and United States government bonds fell, as investors turned toward assets they considered safer.
与之相比，由于投资者把资金转向他们认为更安全的资产，英国、德国和美国的国债收益率下跌。
The major exception was in yields on Greek bonds, which have been little traded since the country’s financial markets were closed last week. The price of the Greek two-year crashed, to leave an astonishingly high yield of 48 percent — almost 15 percentage points higher than on Friday. That is in stark contrast to a yield of less than 1 percent for comparable German debt.
一个主要的例外是希腊债券的收益率，自从该国金融市场上周关闭以来，希腊债券的交易几乎停止。希腊两年期债券的价格崩溃，导致其收益率上升到惊人的48％，比上周五高出近15个百分点。这与收益率不到1％的德国同类债券形成鲜明对比。
The Greek bonds’ movement has little practical effect on the government’s borrowing costs, as the country has been shut out of the capital markets and has issued no new bonds lately. But their plummeting value further undermines the Greek banks, which are the biggest private holders of the country’s sovereign debt.
希腊债券市场的动向对其政府的借贷成本没有什么实际影响，因为该国已被排除出资本市场，最近没有发行过任何新债券。但债券价格的暴跌进一步削弱了希腊银行，希腊银行是该国国债的最大私人持有者。
And because the Greek banks use their government’s bonds as collateral against loans from the European Central Bank, the plunge could make it even more difficult for the central bank to agree to continue lending to the banks.
而且，由于希腊银行用其持有的政府债券作为从欧洲央行得到贷款的抵押物品，债券价格的急剧下跌可能会让欧洲央行同意向希腊银行继续提供贷款变得更难。
The European Central Bank was to discuss its response to the latest developments later on Monday.
欧洲央行将在周一晚些时候就如何应对最新进展进行讨论。
Addressing the possibility that the central bank might force Greece’s hand before European political leaders had been able to formulate their own response, the French finance minister, Michel Sapin, on Monday told Europe 1 radio that the European Central Bank “must not cut” its support for Greek banks.
考虑到央行可能会在欧洲政治领导人能做出自己的响应之前向希腊施加压力的可能性，法国财政部长米歇尔·萨潘(Michel Sapin)周一对欧洲第一电台表示，欧洲央行“不能切断”对希腊银行的支持。
Oil prices fell as much as 3.2 percent early Monday, as traders placed bets that recent events could lead to slower global economic activity and weaker demand. Brent crude, a benchmark, fell below $60 a barrel for the first time since mid-April.
由于交易者打赌最近的事态可能会让全球经济活动放慢、导致对石油的需求疲软，油价在周一早些时候下跌了3.2％。作为基准的布伦特原油一度跌破每桶60美元，这是自今年4月中旬以来的第一次。
Bond prices rallied in Australia, and gold and silver prices climbed, as investors sought safety in response to uncertainty about whether Greece would stop using the euro and about whether mainland China’s economy would slow after investors there lost $2.7 trillion in the stock market over the past three weeks.
澳大利亚市场的债券价格上涨，而且，由于对希腊是否会停止使用欧元的不确定性，以及中国股市在过去3周失去2.7万亿美元市值后，对中国大陆的经济是否会放缓的不确定性，投资者寻找安全投资，使黄金和白银的价格攀升。
The Nikkei 225-share index in Japan closed 2.1 percent lower, and the Kospi in South Korea dropped 2.5 percent. The stock market in Australia, where mining companies are heavily dependent on Chinese demand, finished down 1.1 percent.
日本的日经225股指数以2.1％的降幅收盘，韩国综合指数也下降了2.5％。在澳大利亚，矿业公司严重依赖中国的需求，该国的股市以下跌1.1％收盘。
Kymberly Martin, a currency strategist at the Bank of New Zealand, said that the Greek vote and China’s stock market decline both tended to have similar effects on currencies and stock markets.
新西兰银行的货币策略师金伯利·马丁(Kymberly Martin)表示，希腊公投和中国股市的下跌对货币和股票市场往往有类似的效果。
“It’s very difficult to disentangle what proportion is the eurozone and what proportion is China,” she said. “Probably both factors are affecting the market in the same direction.”
“很难区分开影响中欧元区的比例与中国的比例各为多少，”她说。“两种因素影响市场的方向大致相同。”
But other economists saw the events in Greece as more influential.
但也有经济学家认为，希腊发生的情况有更强的影响力。
“It’s more Greece, but those China concerns are also there,” said Richard Grace, a currency and fixed-income strategist at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
澳大利亚联邦银行的货币和固定收益策略师理查德·格雷斯(Richard Grace)表示，“更多的影响来自希腊，但也有对中国的担心。”
He also questioned whether the sharp gains for Australian bonds would endure, saying that those bonds often jump in value in response to overseas events that prompt investors to seek safety. But the jumps are often transitory, he noted, and recede after European and American markets begin trading.
他也对澳大利亚债券的大幅增长是否能持续表示怀疑，他说这些债券的价格经常在海外事件的影响下上涨，促使投资者寻求安全投资。但他指出，债券价格跳跃往往是短暂的，在欧洲和美国市场开始交易后会回落。
E. William Stone, the executive vice president and chief investment strategist at the PNC Asset Management Group in Philadelphia, said that most investors had been expecting a yes vote on the Greek referendum. Instead, with more than 90 percent of the vote tallied, more than 60 percent of the voters had chosen no.
美国费城的PNC资产管理集团执行副总裁兼首席投资策略师E·威廉·斯通(E. William Stone)表示，大多数投资者曾预期赞成票会在希腊公投中获胜。与此相反，在已经统计完毕的90％以上的选票中，超过60％的选民投了反对票。
“I won’t be surprised if we get some larger sell-offs” as the day progresses, he said.
斯通说，随着交易日的推移，“如果出现一些更大的抛售，我不会感到惊讶。”
Unlike Ms. Martin, he said that Greece would be the dominant influence on markets, particularly in Europe and the United States. While the Shanghai stock market has lost more than a quarter of its value since June 12, it is still up nearly 80 percent from a year ago.
与马丁女士不同，他说，希腊将对市场有主要影响，尤其是在欧洲和美国。虽然上海股市自6月12日以来，已经失去了逾25%的市值，但仍比一年前高出近80％。
“It almost seems like the Chinese authorities are overreacting,” he said.
“中国政府看来似乎有点反应过度，”他说。
On Monday, China’s state-run news media issued a volley of commentaries declaring faith in the government’s ability to restore confidence to the stock market.
周一，中国官方新闻媒体连篇累牍地发表评论，宣布对政府恢复股票市场信心的能力毫无疑问。
“After the storm, comes the rainbow,” said a commentary in People’s Daily. Investors were mistaken to worry about the level of debt behind the rise in stock prices, it said.
《人民日报》的一篇评论说，“风雨之后见彩虹。”评论说，投资者对股价上涨的背后是过高杠杆率的担心是不对的。
“What the broad numbers of investors need at this instant is confidence, not panic,” it said.
评论说，“对于广大投资者而言，此时需要的是信心而不是恐慌。”
In Hong Kong, where shares closed 3.2 percent lower, investors appeared to be paying considerably more attention to China than Greece.
香港股市以3.2％的降幅收盘，那里的投资者对中国的关注似乎比对希腊的关注大得多。