Following two days of intense debate, Greece’s Parliament narrowly approved a barrage of new austerity measures early Thursday, including a contentious plan for thousands of layoffs and wage cuts for civil service workers. The approval paved the way for the release of additional crucial financing from the country’s foreign creditors but raised questions about the stability of the fragile coalition that is to enforce the cuts.
两天的激烈辩论之后，希腊议会于周四早间勉强批准了一大批财政紧缩新措施，包括一项颇有争议的计划，内容是裁掉数千名公务员，并且削减公务员的工资。这些措施的批准为该国的外国贷款人发放更多至关重要的融资铺平了道路，同时也引发了对脆弱的执政联盟的稳定性的质疑，后者将负责削减计划的实施。
The omnibus bill bundling together an overhaul of the civil service and a new tax code, along with other budget cuts, was endorsed by 153 lawmakers in the 300-seat House in a roll-call vote shortly after midnight. Outside the Parliament building in central Athens, more than 5,000 Greeks protested the measures in a boisterous but peaceful demonstration, holding banners that read, “Let’s lay off the government” and “Traitors!”
这项综合法案捆绑了行政部门改革、新税法和其他一些预算削减计划，得到了希腊议会(House)300位议员中153位的支持，他们是在午夜后不久的一次唱名投票中作出上述表决的。在位于雅典市中心的议会大厦外，有5000多名希腊人以喧嚣但和平的示威方式抗议该法案，他们举着横幅，上面写着，“裁掉政府”和“叛徒！”
The changes that have stoked the most public anger, and which prompted labor unions to hold a general strike on Tuesday, are plans to put 25,000 civil servants, including teachers, municipal police officers and school janitors, into a “mobility plan” by the end of the year, docking their wages ahead of forced transfers or dismissals.
其中一些改革措施已经燃起民众最强烈的怒意，促使各工会在周二举行了一场大罢工。这些措施的内容是在今年年底之前，把包括教师、市政警察和学校警卫在内的2.5万名公务员纳入一个“机动计划”，并在强制转岗或解雇这些人之前扣留他们的工资。
By pushing the changes into law, the government secured the release of the first installment of almost $9 billion in rescue loans approved by euro-zone finance ministers last week. The aid is being meted out in tranches to keep the pressure on Greece to honor its commitments to its so-called troika of international lenders — the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank — which have extended the country two bailouts worth almost $315 billion since the spring of 2010.
通过将这些改革措施变成法律，希腊政府确保了贷款人将发放救援贷款中的第一笔资金。救援贷款总额接近90亿美元（约合552亿元人民币），已经在上周举行的欧元区财长会议上得到批准。援助资金将分批发放，以维持对希腊的压力，迫使其履行对名为“三驾马车”的国际贷款人的承诺，这三驾马车分别是国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)、欧盟委员会(European Commission)和欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)，自2010年春天以来，他们已经向希腊发放了两笔救援资金，总额接近3150亿美元。
But, in a volatile political climate, the government will be hard pressed to enforce the unpopular measures. Last month, a decision by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to shut down the state broadcaster, ERT, spurred the junior partner in his coalition to withdraw in protest, leaving Mr. Samaras’s two-party coalition with a wafer-thin majority in Parliament.
可是，在动荡的政治环境下，希腊政府要实施这些不受欢迎的措施实在是难上加难。上个月，希腊总理安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)决定关闭该国的国家电视台ERT，由此触怒了执政联盟里的次要合伙人，后者在抗议中撤出了联盟，致使萨马拉斯的两党联盟在议会内的优势变得十分微弱。
The austerity bill passed only after amendments were included to overcome objections by wavering coalition lawmakers and to appease the anger of the country’s 325 mayors over cutbacks to local authority. One change exempted workers with more than three children from the mobility plan.
紧缩法案在修正之后才获得通过，修正的目的是克服联盟内部那些犹豫不决的议员的反对，同时平息希腊325名市长对地方政府裁员的愤怒。其中一项修正规定，有三个以上孩子的工作人员可以不受机动计划的影响。
Defending the changes in Parliament, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras insisted that Greece was on track to economic recovery despite unemployment that has exceeded 27 percent and risen above 60 percent for those 25 and under. “I am fully aware of the difficulties faced by the Greek people during this major crisis, but our efforts are paying off,” he said.
在议会为这些变革进行辩护时，希腊财政部长亚尼斯·斯图纳拉斯(Yannis Stournaras)坚称，尽管失业率已超过27%，25岁及以下人群的失业率更是超过了60%，但希腊经济正在复苏。“我完全了解希腊人民在这次重大危机中面临的困难，但我们的努力正在得到回报，”他说。
He referred to a five-month trial concession that Athens wrested from its lenders, which the prime minister had announced earlier Wednesday, to cut a sales tax on restaurants to 13 percent from 23 percent starting next month, as part of a bid to bolster small businesses and the crucial tourism sector.
他指的是雅典从其贷款人那里争取到的五个月试验性让步，这是希腊总理周三早些时候宣布的。作为支持小企业和至关重要的旅游业的部分内容，从下月起，对餐馆征收的销售税将从23%降至13%。
Alexis Tsipras, the leader of the main leftist opposition party, Syriza, dismissed the reduction as a bone thrown to Greece by Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble of Germany, which has prodded Greece to enforce austerity measures.
希腊主要左翼政党激进联盟(Syriza)的领袖亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)认为，减税不过是德国财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)扔给希腊的一根骨头。朔伊布勒一直在敦促希腊实施财政紧缩措施。
Mr. Schäuble is scheduled to visit Athens on Thursday, and Greek authorities have banned protests from central Athens for 11 hours as part of severe measures being taken for the visit, which is expected to fuel public anger at the austerity measures.
按照计划，朔伊布勒将于周四访问雅典。希腊当局已经禁止人们在雅典市中心举行抗议，禁令期限为11小时，这是为朔伊布勒的到访而采取的严厉措施之一，预计会助长民众对紧缩措施的愤怒。