ATHENS — Germany maintained a hard line with Athens on Monday after Greek voters rejected Europe’s austerity policies in a referendum, intensifying pressure on Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to restart bailout talks and opening a rift with European countries that appeared more inclined now to consider softening the push for austerity.
雅典——周一，在希腊公投否决了欧洲的紧缩政策之后，德国对雅典的态度依然强硬，这加大了希腊总理亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)重启救助谈判的压力，也造成德国与某些欧洲国家之间的裂痕，后者目前似乎更倾向于考虑缓和紧缩政策的力度。
As Mr. Tsipras changed his finance minister Monday and laid plans to restart bailout negotiations with creditors, however, it appeared the jubilation that followed the no vote in Greece could fade quickly as signs of financial collapse become more evident.
周一，齐普拉斯更换了财政部长，制定了重启与债权人之间救助谈判的计划。但是，随着金融体系崩溃的迹象日趋明显，否决结果带来的喜庆氛围可能很快就会消退。
While the referendum may have lifted Mr. Tsipras’s popularity and bought some time to return to negotiations, Greek banks are almost out of cash and are expected to stay closed for at least several more days, analysts and people close to the situation in Greece said.
虽然公投可能提升了齐普拉斯的人气，并且争取了一些时间来恢复谈判，但分析师和密切关注希腊局势的人士表示，希腊银行的现金几乎已经耗尽，预计将继续关闭至少数日。
The government decided on Monday that a bank holiday scheduled to end Tuesday would now be extended through Wednesday, and a daily cap on A.T.M. withdrawals of 60 euros, about $66, in place since last week, could be tightened. An announcement was expected later in the day. Long lines formed again at cash machines in Athens on Monday as people continued to take out money in dribs and drabs.
希腊政府周一决定，原定周二结束的银行关闭期限，现在将延长到周三。上周起执行的ATM机每日每账户60欧元（约合410元人民币）的取款上限可能还会收紧。根据预期，晚些时候还会发出相关公告。周一，雅典的取款机前再次排起长队，人们小笔小笔地取出存款。
The European Central Bank decided Monday to maintain emergency loans to Greek banks at about 89 billion euros, a level that keeps them from failing but will not prevent them from running out of cash they can issue to depositors within a few days.
欧洲央行(European Central Bank)周一决定，继续向希腊银行提供总计约890亿欧元的紧急贷款，这可以避免希腊银行崩溃，但无法避免它们在数日之内耗尽能够供应给储户的现金。
Ominously, the central bank also said it would tighten requirements for collateral that Greek banks must post in return for loans. The decision means that, even if the European Central Bank decides to increase the lending limit, Greek banks might not have enough collateral needed to qualify for more emergency cash.
不利的是，欧洲央行还表示，将收紧希腊银行用来贷款的抵押品要求。这一决定意味着，即使欧洲央行决定提高贷款限额，希腊银行可能也没有足够的抵押品，来取得更多的现金救急。
The decision was a concession to hard liners on the central bank’s Governing Council, and a sign the central bank is worried about losses it would suffer if Greek banks fail.
该决定是对欧洲央行管理委员会(Governing Council)强硬派的一个让步，也显示了央行担心希腊银行破产会令自己蒙受重大损失。
If a deal for emergency financial aid or a reduction of the nation’s mountainous debt is not struck soon, Greece will probably default on international loans this month, and paying civil servants and pensioners will be increasingly problematic. Should Greece run out of euros in the absence of a deal, it could soon be forced to issue a parallel currency or i.o.u.s to pay its domestic bills, leading it out of the euro currency.
如果提供紧急金融救助，或减免该国深重债务的协议无法尽快达成，希腊可能会在本月对国际贷款违约，而公务员工资及退休金的发放也会越发艰难。如果希腊耗尽欧元，又没有达成协议，可能很快就不得不通过发行并行货币或者打白条的方式来支付其国内账单，导致其退出欧元区。
Mr. Tsipras on Monday took the first steps toward conciliation with Greece’s creditors. The combative finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, abruptly resigned at Mr. Tsipras’s behest, and was replaced by Euclid Tsakalotos, an Oxford-educated economist who took over from Mr. Varoufakis as Greece’s lead negotiator at the end of April.
周一当天，齐普拉斯迈出了与债权人和解的第一步。在齐普拉斯的要求下，好斗的财政部长亚尼斯·瓦鲁法基斯(Yanis Varoufakis)突然辞职，被出身牛津的经济学家欧几里德·察卡洛托斯(Euclid Tsakalotos)取而代之。4月末，察卡洛托斯接替瓦鲁法基斯，出任了希腊首席谈判代表。
After a six-hour meeting, the leaders of Greece’s five main political parties issued a statement saying they would seek discussions with creditors to secure sufficient funds for the nation’s financing needs. They also pledged to carry out “credible reforms,” tackle unemployment and broach the issue of making Greece’s large public debt more sustainable.
在举行了一场长达六小时的会议后，希腊五大政党发布了一则声明，称它们将寻求与债权人举行磋商，以便为该国的融资需求取得充足的资金。它们还承诺实行“可信的改革”、解决失业问题，并着手让希腊的巨额公共债务更具可持续性。
Still, Germany, the eurozone country to which Greece owes the most money and the one that has tended to take the hardest line in the debt talks, warned on Monday against hopes for a quick resolution. A spokesman for the Finance Ministry said Berlin saw no new basis for negotiations with Athens at this point.
然而，周一当天，德国警告，不要指望快速出台解决方案。德国作为欧元区国家，是希腊最大的债主，在债务谈判中态度往往最为强硬。德国财政部发言人称，柏林目前没有看到与雅典举行谈判的新基础。
The spokesman for Angela Merkel, Germany’s chancellor, said that while Greece was still in the eurozone, it was up to Athens to determine whether the country would stay.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔的发言人称，尽管希腊现在仍留在欧元区，但该国是否能留下来，取决于雅典方面。
The Greek government said Monday afternoon that Mr. Tsipras and Ms. Merkel had spoken by telephone and had agreed that he would present new debt proposals on Tuesday, when eurozone leaders are to meet in Brussels.
希腊政府周一下午表示，齐普拉斯和默克尔已通过电话，且双方同意齐普拉斯周二提交新的债务方案。欧元区领导人将于周二在布鲁塞尔会面。
At a news conference in Brussels on Monday, the European Commission’s vice president for euro affairs, Valdis Dombrovskis, said that the no vote in Greece would “dramatically weaken” the country’s negotiating stand with creditors and had made things “more complicated.”
周一，在布鲁塞尔的新闻发布会上，欧盟委员会(European Commission)负责欧元事务的副主席瓦尔迪斯·东布罗夫斯基斯(Valdis Dombrovskis)表示，希腊的否决会“严重削弱”该国与债权人之间谈判的基础，让形势变得“更为复杂”。
But now is the time to seek a way forward, he said, adding, “If all sides are working seriously, it’s possible to find a solution, even in this very complicated situation.”
但他说，现在是寻找前进道路的时候。并接着表示，“如果各方认真工作，即便是在这种非常复杂的形势下，也是有可能找到解决办法的。”
The French finance minister, Michel Sapin, said on French radio Monday that while Greece’s no vote “resolves nothing,” France could support debt relief for Greece should Mr. Tsipras come forward with a proposal containing “serious” terms for a new bailout package.
法国财长米歇尔·萨潘(Michel Sapin)周一在法国的电台上表示，尽管希腊的否决“什么都解决不了”，但如果齐普拉斯拿出的方案中，含有针对新救助计划的“严肃”条款，法国可能会支持减免希腊的债务。
Mr. Sapin’s remarks came ahead of a meeting set for Monday evening in Paris between President François Hollande of France and Ms. Merkel to discuss how to deal with Greece.
萨潘发表此番言论之前，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)和默克尔计划于周一傍晚在巴黎举行会晤，商讨如何应对希腊问题。
Mr. Tsipras may recognize that Greece has only days, if not hours, to wring some kind of deal from its creditors before full-scale economic collapse sets in. The country’s banks are on the verge of running out of euros, and Greeks could soon begin to suffer shortages of fuel and other imported goods.
齐普拉斯可能已经意识到，在全面经济崩溃上演前，希腊从债权人那里得到某种协议的时间，即使不是按小时算，也是按天算的。该国的银行处在欧元告罄的边缘，民众可能很快就会面临燃料及其他进口商品短缺的局面。
The Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers, with whom Greece broke off debt talks late last month, planned to meet in Brussels Monday afternoon to discuss an offer by Athens to resume discussions. Because the deadline for the country’s second bailout package has lapsed, any talks in the Eurogroup on Greek proposals would most likely focus on the terms for a third aid package for the country.
由欧元区国家财政部长组成的欧元集团(Eurogroup)计划周一下午在布鲁塞尔召开会议，讨论希腊提出的重启谈判的主张。上月末，希腊中断了与该机构的债务谈判。因为该国第二宗救助计划的最后期限已过，欧元集团就希腊提出的方案举行的任何谈判，都极有可能把重点放在面向该国的第三宗救助计划上。
The meeting between Mr. Hollande and Ms. Merkel on Monday evening could prove crucial because, while Germany has taken the hardest line against Greece, France has shown signs of being more conciliatory.
奥朗德与默克尔周一傍晚的会面可能至关重要，因为尽管德国对希腊的态度是最强硬的，但法国表现出了较为缓和的迹象。
The two leaders are scheduled to make a brief statement to the news media at 7:15 p.m. in Paris before a working dinner, after which they do not plan to make any further announcement, the French government said.
法国政府称，两位领导人定于晚上7点15分在巴黎向新闻媒体发布一项简短声明，然后共进工作餐。法国政府还表示双方不打算发表任何进一步的声明。
Mr. Varoufakis, who announced his resignation via a Twitter message, said in a statement on his website that he was stepping down because Greece’s creditors had made it clear that they did not want to negotiate any further with him.
瓦鲁法基斯是通过Twitter宣布辞职的。在其个人网站上的一则声明中，瓦鲁法基斯表示，自己下台是因为希腊债权人明确表示，它们不想再与他进行进一步的谈判了。
The French finance minister, Mr. Sapin, in his radio interview on Monday, criticized Mr. Varoufakis for the “terrorism” accusation against creditors.
周一接受电台采访时，法国财长萨潘批评了瓦鲁法基斯对债权人做出的“恐怖主义”谴责。
“That was wrong,” he said, speaking after Mr. Varoufakis announced his resignation. “This was a spirited man, who has faith. But he also made statements that were difficult to accept, especially in France, including using the term ‘terrorism.’”
“那是错误的，”他在瓦鲁法基斯宣布辞职后说。“他是一个很有活力的人，有自己的信条。但他也说了一些令人难以接受，特别是在法国令人难以接受的话，包括用‘恐怖主义’这个词。”
But Mr. Sapin indicated that the French government would draw a distinction between any resentment of Mr. Varoufakis’s negotiating tactics and the problems still facing Greece.
但萨潘表示，法国政府会区分对于瓦鲁法基斯的谈判策略的愤恨，和希腊仍面临的问题。
If Greece now comes back to the negotiating table with a solid plan to jump-start talks, France could be prepared to “ensure that in the early days, the early years, Greece’s debt is alleviated,” Mr. Sapin said.
萨潘称，如果希腊现在拿着一个可靠的方案回到谈判桌上，重启谈判，法国可能准备“确保在最初几天和最初几年，希腊的债务得到减免”。