In 1943, a Greek war veteran named Stamatis Moraitis came to the United States for treatment of a combat-mangled arm. He’d survived a gunshot wound, escaped to Turkey and eventually talked his way onto the Queen Elizabeth, then serving as a troopship, to cross the Atlantic. Moraitis settled in Port Jefferson, N.Y., an enclave of countrymen from his native island, Ikaria. He quickly landed a job doing manual labor. Later, he moved to Boynton Beach, Fla. Along the way, Moraitis married a Greek-American woman, had three children and bought a three-bedroom house and a 1951 Chevrolet.
1943年，希腊老兵斯塔马蒂斯·莫莱蒂斯(Stamatis Moraitis)来到美国，治疗他在战斗中受伤的手臂。他曾身负枪伤，但活了下来，逃到土耳其，最终凭着自己的好口才登上当时被用作运兵船的“伊丽莎白二世女王号”邮轮，横穿大西洋。莫莱蒂斯在纽约州的杰斐逊港定居下来，这里是伊卡利亚岛(Ikaria)——他的老家——人聚集的地方。他很快找到了一个体力活儿。后来，他搬到了佛罗里达州的博因顿海滩。其间，他娶了一位希腊裔美国女子，有了三个孩子，买了一套三居室的房子和一辆1951年的雪佛兰。
One day in 1976, Moraitis felt short of breath. Climbing stairs was a chore; he had to quit working midday. After X-rays, his doctor concluded that Moraitis had lung cancer. As he recalls, nine other doctors confirmed the diagnosis. They gave him nine months to live. He was in his mid-60s.
1976年的某天，莫莱蒂斯觉得气短，爬楼梯变得困难，每天到了中午就不得不收工。医生给他做了X光检查，说他得了肺癌。他回忆说，当时其他九位医生也支持这一诊断。他们认为他还能活九个月。当时他65岁左右。
Moraitis considered staying in America and seeking aggressive cancer treatment at a local hospital. That way, he could also be close to his adult children. But he decided instead to return to Ikaria, where he could be buried with his ancestors in a cemetery shaded by oak trees that overlooked the Aegean Sea. He figured a funeral in the United States would cost thousands, a traditional Ikarian one only $200, leaving more of his retirement savings for his wife, Elpiniki. Moraitis and Elpiniki moved in with his elderly parents, into a tiny, whitewashed house on two acres of stepped vineyards near Evdilos, on the north side of Ikaria. At first, he spent his days in bed, as his mother and wife tended to him. He reconnected with his faith. On Sunday mornings, he hobbled up the hill to a tiny Greek Orthodox chapel where his grandfather once served as a priest. When his childhood friends discovered that he had moved back, they started showing up every afternoon. They’d talk for hours, an activity that invariably involved a bottle or two of locally produced wine. I might as well die happy, he thought.
莫莱蒂斯考虑过留在美国，并在当地医院接受积极的癌症治疗。这样，他也可以离已经成年的子女们近一些。但是，他最终决定回到伊卡利亚岛。在那里，在俯瞰爱琴海的橡树下，他可以和祖先们一起长眠在墓地里。他算了算，在美国一场葬礼要花费几千美元，而在伊卡利亚，一场传统葬礼只需要200美元（约合1200元人民币），这样可以多留一些退休储蓄给妻子艾尔皮尼基(Elpiniki)。莫莱蒂斯和艾尔皮尼基搬去和年迈的双亲同住。他们住在伊卡利亚岛北部靠近艾芙迪洛斯(Evdilos)的一座白色小房子里，还有两英亩（约合12亩）的葡萄园梯田。最初，他缠绵病榻，由母亲和妻子照料。他也重拾信仰。在周日早上，他跛行爬上小山，去祖父曾经担任牧师的希腊东正教小教堂。他的儿时好友们发现他搬回来了，就每天下午来找他。一聊就是几个小时，还不可避免地喝上一两瓶当地产的葡萄酒。他想，我开心地死去也挺好的。
In the ensuing months, something strange happened. He says he started to feel stronger. One day, feeling ambitious, he planted some vegetables in the garden. He didn’t expect to live to harvest them, but he enjoyed being in the sunshine, breathing the ocean air. Elpiniki could enjoy the fresh vegetables after he was gone.
在接下来的几个月里，发生了一些怪事。他说他感觉自己恢复了一些气力。一天，他觉得很有干劲儿，就在园子里种了一些蔬菜。他没指望自己能活到收获的那一天，但是他喜欢在阳光下活动，呼吸带有海洋气息的空气。他过世后，艾尔皮尼基可以享用那些新鲜蔬菜。
Six months came and went. Moraitis didn’t die. Instead, he reaped his garden and, feeling emboldened, cleaned up the family vineyard as well. Easing himself into the island routine, he woke up when he felt like it, worked in the vineyards until midafternoon, made himself lunch and then took a long nap. In the evenings, he often walked to the local tavern, where he played dominoes past midnight. The years passed. His health continued to improve. He added a couple of rooms to his parents’ home so his children could visit. He built up the vineyard until it produced 400 gallons of wine a year. Today, three and a half decades later, he’s 97 years old — according to an official document he disputes; he says he’s 102 — and cancer-free. He never went through chemotherapy, took drugs or sought therapy of any sort. All he did was move home to Ikaria.
6个月过去了。莫莱蒂斯没有死。相反，他收割了园子里的蔬菜，而且信心大增，还拾掇了自家的葡萄园。他渐渐习惯了岛上的作息方式，每天睡到自然醒，在葡萄园忙活到下午，做顿午饭，然后睡个悠长的午觉。晚上，他常常步行到当地的酒馆里，打多米诺骨牌，一直玩到午夜后。几年过去了。他的身体状况持续改善。他在父母家里多盖了两间屋子，让子女可以来探亲。他扩建了葡萄园，直至其年产400加仑（约合1514升）葡萄酒。今天，35年过去了，他已经97岁了。这是官方文件上他的年龄，他对此表示异议；他说自己102岁，而且身上没有癌细胞。他从未接受过化疗，没吃过药，也没寻求过任何疗法。他只是搬回了故乡伊卡利亚岛。
I met Moraitis on Ikaria this past July during one of my visits to explore the extraordinary longevity of the island’s residents. For a decade, with support from the National Geographic Society, I’ve been organizing a study of the places where people live longest. The project grew out of studies by my partners, Dr. Gianni Pes of the University of Sassari in Italy and Dr. Michel Poulain, a Belgian demographer. In 2000, they identified a region of Sardinia’s Nuoro province as the place with the highest concentration of male centenarians in the world. As they zeroed in on a cluster of villages high in Nuoro’s mountains, they drew a boundary in blue ink on a map and began referring to the area inside as the “blue zone.” Starting in 2002, we identified three other populations around the world where people live measurably longer lives than everyone else. The world’s longest-lived women are found on the island of Okinawa. On Costa Rica’s Nicoya Peninsula, we discovered a population of 100,000 mestizos with a lower-than-normal rate of middle-age mortality. And in Loma Linda, Calif., we identified a population of Seventh-day Adventists in which most of the adherents’ life expectancy exceeded the American average by about a decade.
我曾几次赴伊卡利亚岛研究该岛居民不寻常的长寿现象。去年7月，我在那儿见到了莫莱蒂斯。10年来，在国家地理学会(National Geographic Society)的支持下，我组织了一项研究，研究世界各地那些居民最长寿的地方。这一项目是在我的合作伙伴的研究基础上开展的。他们是意大利萨萨里大学(University of Sassari)的詹尼·佩斯博士(Gianni Pes)和比利时人口学家迈克尔·普兰博士(Michel Poulain)。2000年，他们确定撒丁岛（Sardinia，意大利的一个地中海岛屿——译注）努奥罗省的一个地区是世界上百岁男性人口密度最高的地区。他们锁定努奥罗省群山高处的几个村落，用蓝色墨水在地图上画了一圈边界，开始把边界内的区域称为“蓝色地带”。从2002年开始，我们在全球确定了另外三个人口群，其寿命显著高于别处的人口。世界上最长寿的女性在冲绳岛。在哥斯达黎加的尼科亚半岛上，我们发现了有个地方有10万混血人口，他们的中年死亡率低于正常水平。在加利福尼亚州的洛玛连达，我们发现一个基督复临安息日教众(Seventh-day Adventists)群体，其中多数人的寿命比美国人的平均预期寿命约长十年。
In 2003, I started a consulting firm to see if it was possible to take what we were learning in the field and apply it to American communities. We also continued to do research and look for other pockets of longevity, and in 2008, following a lead from a Greek researcher, we began investigating Ikaria. Poulain’s plan there was to track down survivors born between 1900 and 1920 and determine when and where individuals died. The approach was complicated by the fact that people often moved around. That meant that not only were birth and death records required, but also information on immigration and emigration.
2003年，我创建了一个咨询公司，以研究我们在实地获得的知识可否适用于美国社区。我们也继续进行研究，寻找其他长寿地区。2008年，根据一名希腊研究人员提供的线索，我们开始研究伊卡利亚岛。普兰的计划是找到生于1900到1920年之间的人，然后确定他们于何时何地过世。由于人们经常搬迁，这一方法相当复杂，它意味着不仅需要出生和死亡记录，还需要迁入和迁出的信息。
The data collection had to be rigorous. Earlier claims about long-lived people in places like Ecuador’s Vilcabamba Valley, Pakistan’s Hunza Valley or the Caucasus Mountains of Georgia had all been debunked after researchers discovered that many residents didn’t actually know their ages. For villagers born without birth certificates, it was easy to lose track. One year they were 80; a few months later they were 82. Pretty soon they claimed to be 100. And when a town discovers that a reputation for centenarians draws tourists, who’s going to question it? Even in Ikaria, the truth has been sometimes difficult to nail down. Stories like the one about Moraitis’s miraculous recovery become instant folklore, told and retold and changed and misattributed. (Stories about Moraitis have appeared on Greek TV.) In fact, when I was doing research there in 2009, I met a different man who told me virtually the exact same story about himself.
数据收集必须十分严谨。早期那些宣称厄瓜多尔的比尔卡班爸谷、巴基斯坦的罕萨谷及格鲁吉亚的高加索山区等地人们长寿的说法，都已被推翻，因为研究者发现许多居民其实并不知道自己的年龄。对于出生时没有出生证的村民来说，很容易忘记年龄。今年他们80岁，几个月后他们就成了82岁。很快他们就说自己100岁了。再说，当一个小镇发现百岁老人之地的声誉可以招徕游客时，谁还会问那些没有用的问题呢？即便在伊卡利亚岛，有时也不易弄清真相。莫莱蒂斯奇迹般康复的事情很快成了当地的典故，口口相传，添油加醋，移花接木。（莫莱蒂斯的故事还上了希腊电视。）其实，2009年我在那儿做研究时，曾遇到另外一个人，他的故事跟莫莱蒂斯几乎一模一样。
The study would try to cut through the stories and establish the facts about Ikaria’s longevity. Before including subjects, Poulain cross-referenced birth records against baptism or military documentation. After gathering all the data, he and his colleagues at the University of Athens concluded that people on Ikaria were, in fact, reaching the age of 90 at two and a half times the rate Americans do. (Ikarian men in particular are nearly four times as likely as their American counterparts to reach 90, often in better health.) But more than that, they were also living about 8 to 10 years longer before succumbing to cancers and cardiovascular disease, and they suffered less depression and about a quarter the rate of dementia. Almost half of Americans 85 and older show signs of Alzheimer’s. (The Alzheimer’s Association estimates that dementia cost Americans some $200 billion in 2012.) On Ikaria, however, people have been managing to stay sharp to the end.
我们的研究将试图透过这些故事的迷雾，确定伊卡利亚岛长寿现象的事实。在确定研究对象之前，普兰将出生记录与受洗记录或兵役文件进行核对。采集所有数据后，他和雅典大学的同事们得出结论，事实是，伊卡利亚岛居民活到90岁的几率是美国人的2.5倍。（尤其是伊卡利亚岛男性活到90岁的几率是美国男性的4倍，而且常常更健康。）不仅如此，他们在患上癌症或心血管疾病后，存活期也比美国人长8到10年，而且患上抑郁症的也少，患上痴呆症的几率只是美国人的大约四分之一。美国85岁以上的老人几乎有一半有阿尔茨海默病（Alzheimer’s，老年痴呆症——译注）迹象。（据阿尔茨海默病学会[Alzheimer’s Association]估计，2012年，各种痴呆症使美国人付出大约2000亿美元的代价。）然而，在伊卡利亚岛，很多人在生前一直保持敏锐的头脑。
Ikaria, an island of 99 square miles and home to almost 10,000 Greek nationals, lies about 30 miles off the western coast of Turkey. Its jagged ridge of scrub-covered mountains rises steeply out of the Aegean Sea. Before the Christian era, the island was home to thick oak forests and productive vineyards. Its reputation as a health destination dates back 25 centuries, when Greeks traveled to the island to soak in the hot springs near Therma. In the 17th century, Joseph Georgirenes, the bishop of Ikaria, described its residents as proud people who slept on the ground. “The most commendable thing on this island,” he wrote, “is their air and water, both so healthful that people are very long-lived, it being an ordinary thing to see persons in it of 100 years of age.”
伊卡利亚岛面积为99平方英里，岛上有近1万名希腊人。该岛距离土耳其西海岸约有30英里。小岛四周是爱琴海边陡峭矗立的山峰，上面满是灌木。公元前，岛上就有茂密的橡树林和收成不错的葡萄园。其健康胜地的美名可追溯到25个世纪前，那时希腊人来到岛上，在塞尔玛附近泡温泉。17世纪，伊卡利亚大主教约瑟夫·乔治伊仁尼斯(Joseph Georgirenes)曾称，此地居民是席地而眠的简傲之人。他写道，“此岛最值得称道之处是，其空气和水质如此优良，使得居民长寿，百岁老人屡见不鲜。”
Seeking to learn more about the island’s reputation for long-lived residents, I called on Dr. Ilias Leriadis, one of Ikaria’s few physicians, in 2009. On an outdoor patio at his weekend house, he set a table with Kalamata olives, hummus, heavy Ikarian bread and wine. “People stay up late here,” Leriadis said. “We wake up late and always take naps. I don’t even open my office until 11 a.m. because no one comes before then.” He took a sip of his wine. “Have you noticed that no one wears a watch here? No clock is working correctly. When you invite someone to lunch, they might come at 10 a.m. or 6 p.m. We simply don’t care about the clock here.”
2009年，为了对该岛居民长寿的美誉有更多了解，我找到岛上仅有的几个医生之一伊利阿斯·雷里阿蒂斯(Ilias Leriadis)大夫。他在周末度假小屋的户外露台上摆了一张桌子，上面放着卡拉马塔橄榄、鹰嘴豆沙、厚重的伊卡利亚面包和葡萄酒。他说，“我们这儿的人睡得晚，起得也晚，每天都睡午觉。我的诊所上午11点才开门，因为开早了也没人来。”他啜饮了一口葡萄酒，继续说道，“你注意到没？这儿没有人戴手表。没一个钟走得准的。你请人吃午饭，他们可能上午10点来，也可能晚上6点来。在这儿，我们就是不在乎钟点儿。”
Pointing across the Aegean toward the neighboring island of Samos, he said: “Just 15 kilometers over there is a completely different world. There they are much more developed. There are high-rises and resorts and homes worth a million euros. In Samos, they care about money. Here, we don’t. For the many religious and cultural holidays, people pool their money and buy food and wine. If there is money left over, they give it to the poor. It’s not a ‘me’ place. It’s an ‘us’ place.”
他指着爱琴海对面的邻岛萨默斯岛(Samos)说，“那个地方离这儿只有15公里，却完全是另外一个世界。那儿更发达，有不少高楼大厦、度假胜地和价值上百万欧元的房子。在萨默斯，人们很在乎钱。在这儿，我们不在乎。在这里的许多宗教和文化节日上，人们集资买食物和酒。如果钱剩下了，就给穷人。这儿不是个看重‘我’的地方，而是看重‘我们’的地方。”
Ikaria’s unusual past may explain its communal inclinations. The strong winds that buffet the island — mentioned in the “Iliad” — and the lack of natural harbors kept it outside the main shipping lanes for most of its history. This forced Ikaria to be self-sufficient. Then in the late 1940s, after the Greek Civil War, the government exiled thousands of Communists and radicals to the island. Nearly 40 percent of adults, many of them disillusioned with the high unemployment rate and the dwindling trickle of resources from Athens, still vote for the local Communist Party. About 75 percent of the population on Ikaria is under 65. The youngest adults, many of whom come home after college, often live in their parents’ home. They typically have to cobble together a living through small jobs and family support.
伊卡利亚岛非同寻常的历史，或许可以解释其小国寡民的倾向。这个海岛经常遭遇《伊利亚特》（古希腊史诗——编注）中提到的大风吹袭，且无天然海港，这使其在历史上多数时候都与主要航道无缘，因而不得不自给自足。然后，20世纪40年代后期希腊内战结束后，政府向该岛流放了几千名共产党人和激进人士。如今，近40%的成年人仍然投票支持当地共产党，他们中的许多人对高失业率和来自雅典的资源越来越少感到幻灭。伊卡利亚岛75%的岛民不到65岁。最年轻的那批成年人常常住在父母家，他们中的许多人大学毕业后就回了家。他们一般通过打零工和依靠家庭支持来勉强维持生计。
Leriadis also talked about local “mountain tea,” made from dried herbs endemic to the island, which is enjoyed as an end-of-the-day cocktail. He mentioned wild marjoram, sage (flaskomilia), a type of mint tea (fliskouni), rosemary and a drink made from boiling dandelion leaves and adding a little lemon. “People here think they’re drinking a comforting beverage, but they all double as medicine,” Leriadis said. Honey, too, is treated as a panacea. “They have types of honey here you won’t see anyplace else in the world,” he said. “They use it for everything from treating wounds to curing hangovers, or for treating influenza. Old people here will start their day with a spoonful of honey. They take it like medicine.”
雷里阿蒂斯大夫也谈到了当地的“山茶”。这种茶由岛上漫山遍野的草本植物干燥后制成，人们在结束一天的忙碌后享用这种饮料。他提到了野生大麻、鼠尾草、一种薄荷茶、迷迭香和一种把蒲公英叶子煮沸后加一点柠檬制成的饮料。雷里阿蒂斯说，“这里的人们以为自己在喝安神饮料，但这些都具有药效。”蜂蜜也被当做万能药。他说，“这儿有一些你在其他任何地方都见不到的蜂蜜。从处理伤口到解宿醉，或者治疗流感，他们什么都用蜂蜜。这儿的老年人早上起来先吃一勺蜂蜜。他们把蜂蜜当药吃。”
Over the span of the next three days, I met some of Leriadis’s patients. In the area known as Raches, I met 20 people over 90 and one who claimed to be 104. I spoke to a 95-year-old man who still played the violin and a 98-year-old woman who ran a small hotel and played poker for money on the weekend.
在接下来的三天里，我见了雷里阿蒂斯的一些病人。在一个叫做拉齐斯的地方，我见到了20位90岁以上的老人，还有一个自称104岁的人。我同一名95岁的男性（他仍演奏小提琴）和一名98岁的女性（她开着一家小旅馆，周末打牌赌钱）进行了交谈。
On a trip the year before, I visited a slate-roofed house built into the slope at the top of a hill. I had come here after hearing of a couple who had been married for more than 75 years. Thanasis and Eirini Karimalis both came to the door, clapped their hands at the thrill of having a visitor and waved me in. They each stood maybe five feet tall. He wore a shapeless cotton shirt and a battered baseball cap, and she wore a housedress with her hair in a bun. Inside, there was a table, a medieval-looking fireplace heating a blackened pot, a nook of a closet that held one woolen suit coat, and fading black-and-white photographs of forebears on a soot-stained wall. The place was warm and cozy. “Sit down,” Eirini commanded. She hadn’t even asked my name or business but was already setting out teacups and a plate of cookies. Meanwhile, Thanasis scooted back and forth across the house with nervous energy, tidying up.
在前一年的一次走访期间，我参观了一座嵌入山顶斜坡、用石板盖顶的房子。我去那儿，是因为听说有对夫妇已经结婚75年多了。塔纳西斯(Thanasis)和艾里尼·卡里马里(Eirini Karimalis)都到门口迎接，因为有客人来而激动地鼓掌，并挥手让我进去。他俩都大概有5英尺高。他穿着一件走了形的棉布衬衫，戴着一顶旧棒球帽。她穿着一条家常裙子，头发盘成一个发髻。房间里有一张桌子。一个中世纪造型的壁炉正在加热一个发黑的锅。橱柜的一角挂着一件羊毛西服外套。烟熏的墙上挂着祖辈们的褪色黑白照片。他们家温暖又温馨。艾里尼说，“请坐。”她甚至没问我的姓名，也没问我为什么光顾，就摆上了茶具和一盘饼干。而塔纳西斯在房子里快步走来走去，紧张而精力充沛地收拾着。
The couple were born in a nearby village, they told me. They married in their early 20s and raised five children on Thanasis’s pay as a lumberjack. Like that of almost all of Ikaria’s traditional folk, their daily routine unfolded much the way Leriadis had described it: Wake naturally, work in the garden, have a late lunch, take a nap. At sunset, they either visited neighbors or neighbors visited them. Their diet was also typical: a breakfast of goat’s milk, wine, sage tea or coffee, honey and bread. Lunch was almost always beans (lentils, garbanzos), potatoes, greens (fennel, dandelion or a spinachlike green called horta) and whatever seasonal vegetables their garden produced; dinner was bread and goat’s milk. At Christmas and Easter, they would slaughter the family pig and enjoy small portions of larded pork for the next several months.
这对夫妇告诉我，他们出生在附近的一个村庄里。他们20岁出头就结了婚，靠塔纳西斯做伐木工人的薪水养育了5个孩子。就像几乎所有伊卡利亚传统居民一样，他们每天的作息方式跟雷里阿蒂斯所描述的差不多：睡到自然醒，在花园里劳动，很晚才吃午饭，然后睡个午觉。太阳落山时，他们要么去拜访邻居，要么邻居来拜访他们。他们的饮食也很典型：早餐是山羊奶、葡萄酒、鼠尾草茶或咖啡、蜂蜜和面包；午餐几乎总是豆子（小扁豆、鹰嘴豆）、土豆、绿色蔬菜（茴香、蒲公英、或者一种叫做horta的类似于菠菜的绿色蔬菜）以及自家菜园长出的任何时令蔬菜；晚餐是面包和山羊奶。圣诞节和复活节到来时，他们会屠宰家里的猪，在接下来的几个月慢慢享用小份加咸肉片烤制的猪肉。
During a tour of their property, Thanasis and Eirini introduced their pigs to me by name. Just after sunset, after we returned to their home to have some tea, another old couple walked in, carrying a glass amphora of homemade wine. The four nonagenarians cheek-kissed one another heartily and settled in around the table. They gossiped, drank wine and occasionally erupted into laughter.
在参观他们家时，塔纳西斯和艾里尼把家里养的猪一一介绍给我，告诉我每一头叫什么名字。日落后，我们回到他们家去喝茶，另外一对老夫妇走了进来，他们带着一个双耳玻璃瓶，里面装着家酿的葡萄酒。这四位90多岁的老人热情亲吻彼此的脸颊，然后围着桌子坐了下来。他们拉家常，喝葡萄酒，偶尔发出一阵笑声。
Dr. Ioanna Chinou, a professor at the University of Athens School of Pharmacy, is one of Europe’s top experts on the bioactive properties of herbs and natural products. When I consulted her about Ikarians’ longevity, she told me that many of the teas they consume are traditional Greek remedies. Wild mint fights gingivitis and gastrointestinal disorders; rosemary is used as a remedy for gout; artemisia is thought to improve blood circulation. She invited me to give her samples and later tested seven of the most commonly used herbs on Ikaria. As rich sources of polyphenols, they showed strong antioxidant properties, she reported. Most of these herbs also contained mild diuretics. Doctors often use diuretics to treat hypertension — perhaps by drinking tea nightly, Ikarians have gently lowered their blood pressure throughout their lives.
雅典大学药学院(University of Athens School of Pharmacy)教授约安娜·希努(Ioanna Chinou)博士是研究植物和天然产品生物活性的欧洲顶级专家之一。当我向她咨询伊卡利亚人的长寿现象时，她告诉我，他们喝的那些茶有很多是希腊传统药物。野薄荷治疗牙龈炎和肠胃紊乱；迷迭香被用于治疗痛风；艾草被认为可以促进血液循环。她让我给她一些样品，后来她检验了伊卡利亚岛上最常见的7种草本植物。她说，它们富含多酚类物质，具有强大的抗氧化特性。这些草本植物中多数还具有轻度利尿作用。医生常常用利尿剂治疗高血压——伊卡利亚居民通过每晚饮茶，可能缓缓地降低了血压。
Meanwhile, my colleagues Gianni Pes and Michel Poulain set out to track down the island’s 164 residents who were over 90 as of 1999, starting in the municipality of Raches. They found that 75 nonagenarians were still alive. Then, along with additional researchers, they fanned out across the island and asked 35 elderly subjects a battery of lifestyle questions to assess physical and cognitive functioning: How much do you sleep? Did you ever smoke? They asked them to get up and down from a chair five times and recorded how long it took them to walk 13 feet. To test mental agility, the researchers had subjects recall a series of items and reproduce geometric shapes.
同时，我的同事詹尼·佩斯(Gianni Pes)和迈克尔·普兰(Michel Poulain)着手追踪那些在1999年时超过90岁的164位伊卡利亚岛民——从拉齐斯地区开始。他们发现那些人中仍有75位在世。然后，他们和其他研究者一起，分头前往岛上各地，问了35名年迈研究对象一连串有关生活方式的问题，以评估他们的身体及认知功能：你睡多久？你抽过烟吗？他们要求研究对象连续5次从椅子上站起然后坐下，并且记录他们走13英尺需要多少时间。为了测试大脑灵活性，研究者让这些老人回忆一系列物件，并画出它们的形状。
Pes and Poulain were joined in the field by Dr. Antonia Trichopoulou of the University of Athens, an expert on the Mediterranean diet. She helped administer surveys, often sitting in village kitchens to ask subjects to reconstruct their childhood eating habits. She noted that the Ikarians’ diet, like that of others around the Mediterranean, was rich in olive oil and vegetables, low in dairy (except goat’s milk) and meat products, and also included moderate amounts of alcohol. It emphasized homegrown potatoes, beans (garbanzo, black-eyed peas and lentils), wild greens and locally produced goat milk and honey.
雅典大学的地中海饮食专家安东尼娅·特里朝普鲁(Antonia Trichopoulou)参加了佩斯和普兰的实地考察。她帮助管理调查活动，常常坐在乡间厨房里请研究对象回忆童年时代的饮食习惯。她注意到，伊卡利亚人的饮食，同地中海沿岸的其他居民一样，橄榄油和蔬菜的比重较大，乳制品（山羊奶除外）和肉制品的份量较低，还包括适量的酒类。他们吃的主要是自家种植的土豆、豆子（鹰嘴豆、黑眼豆和小扁豆）、野生绿菜和当地产的山羊奶和蜂蜜。
As I knew from my studies in other places with high numbers of very old people, every one of the Ikarians’ dietary tendencies had been linked to increased life spans: low intake of saturated fats from meat and dairy was associated with lower risk of heart disease; olive oil — especially unheated — reduced bad cholesterol and raised good cholesterol. Goat’s milk contained serotonin-boosting tryptophan and was easily digestible for older people. Some wild greens had 10 times as many antioxidants as red wine. Wine — in moderation — had been shown to be good for you if consumed as part of a Mediterranean diet, because it prompts the body to absorb more flavonoids, a type of antioxidant. And coffee, once said to stunt growth, was now associated with lower rates of diabetes, heart disease and, for some, Parkinson’s. Local sourdough bread might actually reduce a meal’s glycemic load. You could even argue that potatoes contributed heart-healthy potassium, vitamin B6 and fiber to the Ikarian diet. Another health factor at work might be the unprocessed nature of the food they consume: as Trichopoulou observed, because islanders eat greens from their gardens and fields, they consume fewer pesticides and more nutrients. She estimated that the Ikarian diet, compared with the standard American diet, might yield up to four additional years of life expectancy.
正像我所研究的其他汇聚长寿老人的地方一样，伊卡利亚人的每一种饮食习惯都早已被人与长寿联系起来：从肉类或乳制品摄入的饱和脂肪较少，就不容易得心脏病；橄榄油，特别是未加热的橄榄油，能够降低体内的坏胆固醇，提升好胆固醇。山羊奶含有增加血清素的色氨酸，老年人容易消化。一些野生绿菜中含有的抗氧化剂是红葡萄酒的10倍。作为地中海饮食的一部分，适量饮用葡萄酒已被证明是有益的，因为这会促使人体吸收更多的类黄酮，这又是一类抗氧化剂。人们曾经认为咖啡会抑制生长，现在则认为咖啡与较低的糖尿病和心脏病发病率有关。有些研究还认为咖啡能够降低帕金森病的发病率。当地的酸面包实际上可能降低一顿饭的生糖负荷。你甚至可以说，伊卡利亚饮食中的土豆贡献了有利心脏健康的钾、维生素B6及纤维。另一个相关的健康因素可能是，伊卡利亚人吃的食品都是未经加工的：正如特里朝普鲁观察到的，岛民食用自家菜园和田里的绿色蔬菜，农药少，营养成份高。她估计，与标准的美国饮食相比，伊卡利亚饮食可能延长预期寿命至多4年。
Of course, it may not be only what they’re eating; it may also be what they’re not eating. “Are they doing something positive, or is it the absence of something negative?” Gary Taubes asked when I described to him the Ikarians’ longevity and their diet. Taubes is a founder of the nonprofit Nutrition Science Initiative and the author of “Why We Get Fat” (and has written several articles for this magazine). “One explanation why they live so long is they eat a plant-based diet. Or it could be the absence of sugar and white flour. From what I know of the Greek diet, they eat very little refined sugar, and their breads have been traditionally made with stone-ground wheat.”
当然，伊卡利亚人长寿可能不仅跟他们吃什么有关系，还跟他们不吃什么有关。当我向加里·陶布斯(Gary Taubes)描述伊卡利亚人的长寿现象及其饮食习惯时，他问我，“是因为他们做了有益健康的事呢？还是因为他们不做一些有害健康的事情？”陶布斯是非营利组织——营养科学行动(Nutrition Science Initiative)的创始人，也是《我们为什么长胖》(Why We Get Fat)的作者（他也为《纽约时报》周末杂志写过多篇文章）。“他们如此长寿的解释之一是，他们以吃素为主。也可能是因为不含糖或白面。据我对希腊饮食的了解，他们很少食用精制糖，而且用石磨的面粉制作面包。”
Following the report by Pes and Poulain, Dr. Christina Chrysohoou, a cardiologist at the University of Athens School of Medicine, teamed up with half a dozen scientists to organize the Ikaria Study, which includes a survey of the diet of 673 Ikarians. She found that her subjects consumed about six times as many beans a day as Americans, ate fish twice a week and meat five times a month, drank on average two to three cups of coffee a day and took in about a quarter as much refined sugar — the elderly did not like soda. She also discovered they were consuming high levels of olive oil along with two to four glasses of wine a day.
继佩斯和普兰的报告之后，雅典大学医学院(University of Athens School of Medicine)心脏病专家克里斯汀娜·克里索胡(Christina Chrysohoou)医生同六名科学家组成一个团队，启动“伊卡利亚研究”(Ikaria Study)，包括对673名伊卡利亚岛居民进行饮食调查。她发现，她的研究对象每天食用豆子的量是美国人的六倍。他们每周吃两次鱼，每个月吃五次肉，每天平均喝两到三杯咖啡，精制糖的摄入量大约是美国人的四分之一（年长者尤其不喜欢喝软饮料）。她还发现，他们每天食用大量橄榄油，还喝两到四杯葡萄酒。
Chrysohoou also suspected that Ikarians’ sleep and sex habits might have something to do with their long life. She cited a 2008 paper by the University of Athens Medical School and the Harvard School of Public Health that studied more than 23,000 Greek adults. The researchers followed subjects for an average of six years, measuring their diets, physical activity and how much they napped. They found that occasional napping was associated with a 12 percent reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease, but that regular napping — at least three days weekly — was associated with a 37 percent reduction. She also pointed out a preliminary study of Ikarian men between 65 and 100 that included the fact that 80 percent of them claimed to have sex regularly, and a quarter of that self-reported group said they were doing so with “good duration” and “achievement.”
克里索胡还怀疑，伊卡利亚人的长寿可能跟他们的睡眠及性生活习惯有关。她引用了一篇雅典大学医学院及哈佛大学公共卫生学院(Harvard School of Public Health)在2008年发表的一篇论文。那项研究涵盖2.3万多名希腊成人。研究者平均追踪研究对象六年，测量他们的饮食、体力活动及午睡习惯。他们发现，偶尔午睡可将患冠心病的风险降低12%，而习惯性午睡（每周至少三天午睡）可将这一风险降低37%。她还指出，对65岁到100岁的伊卡利亚男性的一项初步调查显示，他们当中80%的人自称经常有性生活，有四分之一的人说，他们在性生活中“很持久”，并且“有成就感”。
During our time on Ikaria, my colleagues and I stayed at Thea Parikos’s guesthouse, the social hub of western Ikaria. Local women gathered in the dining room at midmorning to gossip over tea. Late at night, after the dinner rush, tables were pushed aside and the dining room became a dance floor, with people locking arms and kick-dancing to Greek music.
我们在伊卡利亚岛上时，住在西娅·帕里克斯(Thea Parikos)的小旅馆中，那儿是伊卡利亚岛西部的一个社交中心。上午，当地妇女聚集在那儿的餐厅里喝茶聊天。晚上，繁忙的晚餐时间过后，桌子被推到一旁，餐厅变成一个舞池。人们伴随着希腊音乐，手挽手跳踢踏舞。
Parikos cooked the way her ancestors had for centuries, giving us a chance to consume the diet we were studying. For breakfast, she served local yogurt and honey from the 90-year-old beekeeper next door. For dinner, she walked out into the fields and returned with handfuls of weedlike greens, combined them with pumpkin and baked them into savory pies. My favorite was a dish made with black-eyed peas, tomatoes, fennel tops and garlic and finished with olive oil that we dubbed Ikarian stew.
帕里克斯用祖先们延续几百年的传统方式烹饪，使我们有机会品尝自己正在研究的饮食。早餐供应当地酸奶和蜂蜜。蜂蜜来自隔壁90岁的养蜂人。晚餐前，帕里克斯出门走到田里，回来时手里抓着野草状的绿叶蔬菜，再加上南瓜，烤成美味的馅饼。我最喜欢的一道菜的原料是黑眼豆、西红柿、小茴香尖和大蒜，最后浇上橄榄油。我们称之为伊卡利亚炖菜。
Despite her consummately Ikarian air, Parikos was actually born in Detroit to an American father and an Ikarian mother. She had attended high school, worked as a real estate agent and married in the United States. After she and her husband had their first child, she felt a “genetic craving” for Ikaria. “I was not unhappy in America,” she said. “We had good friends, we went out to dinner on the weekends, I drove a Chevrolet. But I was always in a hurry.”
尽管帕里克斯完全是伊卡利亚人的做派，但其实她出生在底特律。她的父亲是美国人，母亲是伊卡利亚人。她在美国读高中、做房产经纪人并且结婚。她和丈夫有了第一个孩子后，她感觉到自己对伊卡利亚岛产生了“遗传性的向往”。她说：“我在美国不是不快乐。我们有好朋友，周末外出晚餐，我开一辆雪佛来。但我总是匆匆忙忙的。”
When she and her family moved to Ikaria and opened the guesthouse, everything changed. She stopped shopping for most groceries, instead planting a huge garden that provided most of their fruits and vegetables. She lost weight without trying to. I asked her if she thought her simple diet was going to make her family live longer. “Yes,” she said. “But we don’t think about it that way. It’s bigger than that.”
他们举家搬到伊卡利亚岛、开了这家小旅馆后，一切都变了。大部分食品都不用买，而是靠自己在一个大菜园里种植，由此得到大部分水果和蔬菜。她没减肥就自然瘦了。我问她，是否认为她的简单饮食可以让一家人长寿。她说，“是的，但是我们不这么看。这一切的意义并不只是长寿。”
Although unemployment is high — perhaps as high as 40 percent — most everyone has access to a family garden and livestock, Parikos told me. People who work might have several jobs. Someone involved in tourism, for example, might also be a painter or an electrician or have a store. “People are fine here because we are very self-sufficient,” she said. “We may not have money for luxuries, but we will have food on the table and still have fun with family and friends. We may not be in a hurry to get work done during the day, so we work into the night. At the end of the day, we don’t go home to sit on the couch.”
帕里克斯告诉我，尽管失业率很高，可能高达40%，但是几乎人人都有菜园和家畜。工作的人可能打好几份工。比如一些从事旅游业的人，可能也是漆匠、电工，或者开着一个店。她说，“这儿的人过得很好，因为我们自给自足。我们可能没钱买奢侈品。但是我们桌上有吃的，而且还能跟亲友们快乐地生活。我们可能不急着白天就把事情做完，所以我们会工作到晚上。一天结束时，我们不会回家去坐到沙发上。”
Parikos was nursing a mug of coffee. Sunlight sifted in through the window shades; the waves of the nearby Aegean could be barely heard over the din of breakfast. “Do you know there’s no word in Greek for privacy?” she declared. “When everyone knows everyone else’s business, you get a feeling of connection and security. The lack of privacy is actually good, because it puts a check on people who don’t want to be caught or who do something to embarrass their family. If your kids misbehave, your neighbor has no problem disciplining them. There is less crime, not because of good policing, but because of the risk of shaming the family. You asked me about food, and yes, we do eat better here than in America. But it’s more about how we eat. Even if it’s your lunch break from work, you relax and enjoy your meal. You enjoy the company of whoever you are with. Food here is always enjoyed in combination with conversation.”
帕里克斯正在煮一杯咖啡。阳光透过窗帘照进来。在早餐的喧哗声中，可隐隐听到不远处爱琴海的涛声。她说，“你知道吗？希腊语中没有隐私这个词。人们都知道彼此的事情，让人觉得又亲近又安全。其实，缺少隐私挺好的。这样就能管住那些不希望被抓住、或者不希望让家人丢脸的人。如果你的孩子不乖，邻居可以教训他们。这儿的犯罪率较低，不是因为治安好，而是因为做坏事有让家人丢脸的风险。你问我食物的问题，没错，我们在这儿确实比美国吃得好。但这在更大程度上是因为我们吃东西的方式。即使你是在工作时享受午餐休息时间，你也会很放松地享用食物。谁陪你吃饭，你都很开心。在这儿人们总是边享用美食边聊天。”
In the United States, when it comes to improving health, people tend to focus on exercise and what we put into our mouths — organic foods, omega-3’s, micronutrients. We spend nearly $30 billion a year on vitamins and supplements alone. Yet in Ikaria and the other places like it, diet only partly explained higher life expectancy. Exercise — at least the way we think of it, as willful, dutiful, physical activity — played a small role at best.
在美国，提到保健，人们总是专注于锻炼及饮食：有机食品、欧米伽3(omega-3)、微量营养素。我们每年掏出近300亿美元购买维生素和补充剂。然而，在伊卡利亚岛和与其类似的其它地方，饮食只是在一定程度上解释较高的预期寿命。锻炼（至少是我们所认为的那种锻炼，即有目的、完成任务式的体力活动）最多起到一点小作用。
Social structure might turn out to be more important. In Sardinia, a cultural attitude that celebrated the elderly kept them engaged in the community and in extended-family homes until they were in their 100s. Studies have linked early retirement among some workers in industrialized economies to reduced life expectancy. In Okinawa, there’s none of this artificial punctuation of life. Instead, the notion of ikigai — “the reason for which you wake up in the morning” — suffuses people’s entire adult lives. It gets centenarians out of bed and out of the easy chair to teach karate, or to guide the village spiritually, or to pass down traditions to children. The Nicoyans in Costa Rica use the term plan de vida to describe a lifelong sense of purpose. As Dr. Robert Butler, the first director of the National Institute on Aging, once told me, being able to define your life meaning adds to your life expectancy.
社会结构可能更重要。撒丁岛民在文化态度上尊重老人，这使老人直到100多岁还投入社区和大家庭的事务。一些研究表明，工业化经济体一些劳动者的提早退休与预期寿命下降之间存在关联。冲绳岛上没有人为的人生阶段划分。相反，ikigai（“你每天早上醒来的理由”）这个概念贯穿人们的整个成年。这个概念使百岁老人不是躺在床上或是安乐椅上，而是传授空手道，或者在精神层面指引村里人，或是把传统传给子孙后代。哥斯达黎加的尼科亚人使用“人生计划”(plan de vida)这个概念来形容一生都有目标感。正如国家衰老研究所(National Institute on Aging)的首任所长罗伯特·巴特勒(Robert Butler)曾经对我说的，能够确定你的人生意义，就会增加你的预期寿命。
The healthful plant-based diet that Seventh-day Adventists eat has been associated with an extra decade of life expectancy. It has also been linked to reduced rates of diabetes and heart disease. Adventists’ diet is inspired by the Bible — Genesis 1:29. (“And God said: ‘Behold, I have given you every herb yielding seed . . . and every tree, in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for food.’ ”) But again, the key insight might be more about social structure than about the diet itself. While for most people, diets eventually fail, the Adventists eat the way they do for decades. How? Adventists hang out with other Adventists. When you go to an Adventist picnic, there’s no steak grilling on the barbecue; it’s a vegetarian potluck. No one is drinking alcohol or smoking. As Nicholas Christakis, a physician and social scientist at Harvard, found when examining data from a long-term study of the residents of Framingham, Mass., health habits can be as contagious as a cold virus. By his calculation, a Framingham individual’s chances of becoming obese shot up by 57 percent if a friend became obese. Among the Adventists we looked at, it was mostly positive social contagions that were in circulation.
基督复临安息日会教徒以素食为主的健康饮食，被认为与额外10年的预期寿命存在关联，还被认为有助于降低糖尿病和心脏病的发病率。这些教徒的饮食受到《圣经》中创世纪1:29的启发。（神说：看哪，我将遍地上一切结种子的菜蔬，和一切树上所结有核的果子，全赐给你们作食物。）但同样，关键见解也许在更大程度上在于社会结构，而非饮食本身。多数人最终放弃旨在减肥的饮食，但这些教徒坚持了几十年。他们是怎么做到的？因为教徒会跟教徒一起玩。你去参加基督复临安息日会的野餐会时，烤架上不会有牛扒；这是一个素食聚餐活动。没人抽烟喝酒。正像哈佛(Harvard)的医生及社会科学家尼古拉斯·克里斯塔吉斯(Nicholas Christakis)研究一项针对马萨诸塞州弗明翰居民的长期研究的数据时所发现的，健康习惯像感冒病毒一样具有传染性。根据他的计算，一位弗明翰居民如果有位朋友肥胖了，他自己肥胖的可能性会上升57%。在我们研究的基督复临安息日会教徒当中，社交活动传播的大多是积极的习惯。
Ask the very old on Ikaria how they managed to live past 90, and they’ll usually talk about the clean air and the wine. Or, as one 101-year-old woman put it to me with a shrug, “We just forget to die.” The reality is they have no idea how they got to be so old. And neither do we. To answer that question would require carefully tracking the lifestyles of a study group and a control group for an entire human lifetime (and then some). We do know from reliable data that people on Ikaria are outliving those on surrounding islands (a control group, of sorts). Samos, for instance, is just eight miles away. People there with the same genetic background eat yogurt, drink wine, breathe the same air, fish from the same sea as their neighbors on Ikaria. But people on Samos tend to live no longer than average Greeks. This is what makes the Ikarian formula so tantalizing.
问问伊卡利亚的高寿岛民是怎么活到90岁以上的，他们通常会说是因为洁净的空气和葡萄酒。或者，正像某位101岁的老妇耸耸肩告诉我的，“我们只是忘记有死这么回事儿了。”现实是，他们不知道自己是怎么活到这把年纪的。我们也不知道。要回答这个问题，需要认真跟踪一组研究对象及一个对照组一生的生活习惯（可能还要研究更多内容）。我们的确从可靠的数据得知，伊卡利亚人比周围岛屿上的人（算是一个对照组）活得更久。例如，萨默斯岛距此仅有8英里。萨默斯岛居民和伊卡利亚人有相同的遗传背景。他们吃酸奶，喝葡萄酒，呼吸同样的空气，吃同一个大海里的鱼。但萨默斯人并不比希腊人整体的平均寿命长。正是这一点使伊卡利亚秘诀如此耐人寻味。
If you pay careful attention to the way Ikarians have lived their lives, it appears that a dozen subtly powerful, mutually enhancing and pervasive factors are at work. It’s easy to get enough rest if no one else wakes up early and the village goes dead during afternoon naptime. It helps that the cheapest, most accessible foods are also the most healthful — and that your ancestors have spent centuries developing ways to make them taste good. It’s hard to get through the day in Ikaria without walking up 20 hills. You’re not likely to ever feel the existential pain of not belonging or even the simple stress of arriving late. Your community makes sure you’ll always have something to eat, but peer pressure will get you to contribute something too. You’re going to grow a garden, because that’s what your parents did, and that’s what your neighbors are doing. You’re less likely to be a victim of crime because everyone at once is a busybody and feels as if he’s being watched. At day’s end, you’ll share a cup of the seasonal herbal tea with your neighbor because that’s what he’s serving. Several glasses of wine may follow the tea, but you’ll drink them in the company of good friends. On Sunday, you’ll attend church, and you’ll fast before Orthodox feast days. Even if you’re antisocial, you’ll never be entirely alone. Your neighbors will cajole you out of your house for the village festival to eat your portion of goat meat.
如果你仔细研究伊卡利亚人的生活方式。你会发现，似乎有许多微妙而又强大，相互促进、无所不在的因素在起作用。如果别人也不早起，如果整个村子在下午的午睡时间陷入死一般的静谧，你很容易得到充足的休息。同样有帮助的是，最便宜、最易得的食物也是最健康的——而你的祖先花费了几百年时间研究烹饪方法，让这些食物吃起来美味。在伊卡利亚岛生活，几乎每天都需要走20段上坡路。你不太可能感受到没有归属感之类的存在境界的痛苦，甚至不会感受到迟到之类的简单压力。你的社区保证你总是有吃的，但是同辈压力也会推动你作出自己的贡献。你会种植一个菜园，因为你的父母就是这么做的，邻居们也在这么做。你不太可能成为犯罪受害者，因为大家都爱管闲事，同时也觉得自己时时处于众目睽睽之下。一天结束的时候，你会和邻居在一起，喝一杯当季的草本植物茶，因为邻居就是拿这个待客的。喝完茶后，可能会喝几杯葡萄酒，但是你会跟好朋友们一起喝茶喝酒。周日，你会去教堂。你会在东正教节日前斋戒。即使你不喜欢社交，你也永远不会完全独处。邻居们会盛情邀请你离开家，去村里的节日盛会上吃你的那一份山羊肉。
Every one of these factors can be tied to longevity. That’s what the $70 billion diet industry and $20 billion health-club industry do in their efforts to persuade us that if we eat the right food or do the right workout, we’ll be healthier, lose weight and live longer. But these strategies rarely work. Not because they’re wrong-minded: it’s a good idea for people to do any of these healthful activities. The problem is, it’s difficult to change individual behaviors when community behaviors stay the same. In the United States, you can’t go to a movie, walk through the airport or buy cough medicine without being routed through a gantlet of candy bars, salty snacks and sugar-sweetened beverages. The processed-food industry spends more than $4 billion a year tempting us to eat. How do you combat that? Discipline is a good thing, but discipline is a muscle that fatigues. Sooner or later, most people cave in to relentless temptation.
这些因素可能都与长寿有关。产值700亿美元的减肥产业和200亿美元的健身俱乐部产业正是这样劝说我们的；按照它们的意思，如果我们吃正确的食物，做正确的锻炼，我们就会更健康，更苗条，更长寿。但是这些策略很少奏效。不是因为它们不对：人们做这些有益健康的事是好主意。问题在于，在群体习惯不变的情况下，要改变个人行为是很难的。在美国，你无论是去看电影，穿过机场，或者去买咳嗽药，都会面对一排排糖果、咸味零食及含糖饮料的诱惑。每年，加工食品行业花费逾40亿美元引诱我们吃东西。我们怎么抵挡得了呢？纪律是好的，但是纪律也会松弛。大部分人早晚会向无所不在的诱惑投降。
As our access to calories has increased, we’ve decreased the amount of physical activity in our lives. In 1970, about 40 percent of all children in the U.S. walked to school; now fewer than 12 percent do. Our grandparents, without exercising, burned up about five times as many calories a day in physical activity as we do. At the same time, access to food has exploded.
我们摄入卡路里的机会越来越多，活动却越来越少了。1970年，约40%的美国孩子步行上学；现在不到12%的孩子这么做。我们的祖父母不去健身房锻炼，但他们每天在日常活动中消耗的卡路里却是我们的大约5倍。同时，我们获得食物的机会已发生爆炸式增长。
Despite the island’s relative isolation, its tortuous roads and the fierce independence of its inhabitants, the American food culture, among other forces, is beginning to take root in Ikaria. Village markets are now selling potato chips and soda, which in my experience is replacing tea as the drink of choice among younger Ikarians. As the island’s ancient traditions give way before globalization, the gap between Ikarian life spans and those of the rest of the world seems to be gradually disappearing, as the next generations of old people become less likely to live quite so long.
尽管伊卡利亚岛相对与世隔绝，岛上道路曲折，且岛民具有极强的独立性，但美国饮食文化和其他一些力量一样，正开始在岛上生根发芽。现在，村里的市场出售薯条和软饮料。据我观察，软饮料正在取代茶，成为年轻岛民的首选饮料。随着岛上的古老传统在全球化面前让路，伊卡利亚岛和世界其他地方的寿命差距似乎在逐渐消失，老人们的下一代变得不太可能那么长寿。
The big aha for me, having studied populations of the long-lived for nearly a decade, is how the factors that encourage longevity reinforce one another over the long term. For people to adopt a healthful lifestyle, I have become convinced, they need to live in an ecosystem, so to speak, that makes it possible. As soon as you take culture, belonging, purpose or religion out of the picture, the foundation for long healthy lives collapses. The power of such an environment lies in the mutually reinforcing relationships among lots of small nudges and default choices. There’s no silver bullet to keep death and the diseases of old age at bay. If there’s anything close to a secret, it’s silver buckshot.
我研究长寿人群近十年，最让我惊叹的是这些长寿因素长期而言是如何相互促进的。我逐渐确信这一点：要养成健康的生活习惯，人们需要生活在使健康生活方式成为可能的某种“生态系统”中。一旦你剔除文化、归属感、目的或宗教因素，健康长寿的根基就坍塌了。这种环境的威力就在于，众多微小的推动力量及默认选择形成了相互增强的关系。不存在把死亡和老年疾病挡在门外的万能药。如果说有任何近似秘诀的东西，那就是存在某种有效的“组合拳”。
I called Moraitis a few weeks ago from my home in Minneapolis. Elpiniki died in the spring at age 85, and now he lives alone. He picked up the phone in the same whitewashed house that he’d moved into 35 years ago. It was late afternoon in Ikaria. He had worked in his vineyard that morning and just awakened from a nap. We chatted for a few minutes, but then he warned me that some of his neighbors were coming over for a drink in a few minutes and he’d have to go. I had one last question for him. How does he think he recovered from lung cancer?
几周前，我在明尼阿波利斯市的家里，给莫莱蒂斯打了个电话。85岁的艾尔皮尼基在春天去世了。现在莫莱蒂斯独自生活。他仍在他35年前入住的那座白色房子里接听电话。那是伊卡利亚岛的傍晚时分。他早上在葡萄园里打理了一番，刚刚午睡醒来。我们聊了几分钟，然后他说，他有几个邻居一会儿就要来喝酒，他得挂电话了。我问了他最后一个问题。你觉得你的肺癌是怎么好的？
“It just went away,” he said. “I actually went back to America about 25 years after moving here to see if the doctors could explain it to me.”
他说，“就自己消失了。其实，我搬来25年后，回过美国，想问问医生们怎么解释。”
I had heard this part of the story before. It had become a piece of the folklore of Ikaria, proof of its exceptional way of life. Still, I asked him, “What happened?”
我听过这段儿故事。这已经成了伊卡利亚岛民间故事的一部分，以证明他们的生活方式非同寻常。但我还是问他，“然后呢？”
“My doctors were all dead.”
“那几个医生都去世了。”