PARIS — Stocks slumped modestly on Monday at the opening on Wall Street, after markets in Asia and Europe were battered by worries that the Greek financial crisis would prove contagious and Chinese investors endured another topsy-turvy session.
巴黎——周一，华尔街股市开盘后股价有所下滑。在此之前，亚洲和欧洲市场担忧希腊债务危机会持续蔓延，中国的投资者也再次经历震荡。
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.67 percent, the Standard & Poor’s 500 index fell 0.65 percent, and the Nasdaq average fell 0.76 percent in early trading in New York.
在纽约的早盘交易中，道琼斯工业平均指数下降了0.67%，标准普尔500指数下降了0.65％，纳斯达克平均指数下降了0.76%。
Asian stock markets slumped on Monday as Greece’s financial difficulties triggered worry about possible broader harm to the global financial system. An interest rate cut by Beijing on Saturday failed to stem the fall in Chinese stock markets beyond the first hour of trading.
由于希腊财政困难引发对可能进一步危害全球金融体系的担忧，亚洲股市周一暴跌。北京周六作出的下调基准利率的决定并未能阻止中国股市在开盘一小时之后开始下跌。
The euro also dropped 1.5 cents against the dollar, to a value of $1.1017, as investors worried that Greece’s troubles would have a spillover effect and make European assets less attractive.
因投资者担心希腊的麻烦可能造成溢出效应，使得欧洲资产的吸引力降低，欧元对美元的汇率同时下跌了1.5美分，为1欧元兑1.1017美元。
Greece has been struggling for a solution to its debt troubles for years. But the speed with which its government called a national referendum and shut its banks appeared to have caught at least some investors off guard. “Most people’s consensus forecast was for them to muddle through with some kind of a deal, so it has taken people a little bit by surprise,” said Kymberly Martin, the senior market strategist at the Bank of New Zealand.
希腊已经被寻找解决债务问题的方案困扰多年。但政府决定举行全民公投和关闭其银行的速度之快让至少一部分投资者措手不及。“大部分人的普遍预测是通过某种协议蒙混过关，所以这让人感到有些惊讶，”新西兰银行(Bank of New Zealand)高级市场策略师金伯利·马丁(Kymberly Martin)称。
The Japanese stock market fell 2.4 percent in midafternoon trade; the Australian market dipped 2.2 percent; and the South Korean market was down 1.3 percent. The price of gold, an asset that tends to become more popular during times of financial or political instability, climbed $12 an ounce, to $1,185.20.
日本证券市场在下午的交易中下跌2.4%；澳大利亚股市下跌了2.2%；韩国股市也下跌了1.3%。在金融市场或政局不稳定时趋于更受欢迎的黄金价格每盎司上涨了12美元，达到了1185.2美元。
Concerns about Greece more than offset any lift from China’s interest rate cut on Saturday. China’s own stock markets were the worse performers by midday, with share prices tumbling 5.4 percent in Shanghai and 7 percent in Shenzhen, after plunging more than 7 percent on Friday.
对于希腊的担忧抵消了中国下调利率带来的利好。中国股市在上周五暴跌7%之后，周一上午上海股市下跌5.4%，深圳股市下跌7%，是午前所有市场中表现最差的。
The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong had not climbed nearly as fast as mainland markets over the past year and dropped more gently than the mainland did on Monday, falling 2.7 percent in morning trading.
香港恒生指数在去年并没有像内地股市一般快速攀升，周一的跌幅小于内地股市，在上午的交易中下跌了2.7%。
The People’s Bank of China, the country’s central bank, reduced one-year lending and deposit rates by a quarter percentage point, effective on Sunday and also reduced the reserves that some banks are required to hold, allowing them to lend more money.
自周日起，中国央行中国人民银行将一年期存贷款基准利率降低了0.25个百分点，并且降低了部分银行的存款准备金率，从而使这些银行有更多的资金用来放贷。
The central bank had previously refrained from acting so quickly after a market downturn, so its action over the weekend was interpreted as a clear sign that the government was reluctant to see the Chinese stock markets lose their gains after doubling in the past 12 months.
鉴于中国央行一直以来都未在市场下跌之后立即有所行动，周末的降息降准措施被外界解读为释放了明确的信号，即政府不愿意看到在过去12月里上涨翻番的中国股市转头下跌。
“It marks a slight departure from the previous P.B.O.C. moves, because this time it looks to be directly timed as support for the equity markets,” said Erwin Sanft, the head of China strategy in Hong Kong at Macquarie Capital Securities.
位于香港的麦格理资本证券公司(Macquarie Capital Securities）中国策略部负责人埃尔文·桑弗特(Erwin Sanft)说，“中国人民银行的举动和之前大相径庭，由于这一次的时机看上去更像是支撑股市。”
But while the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets surged at the opening on Monday, they soon reversed course on sustained selling. Heavy investments with borrowed money by individuals, many of them young and with scant experience in bear markets, have propelled the mainland markets to their current heights, and market strategists have been warning for months that if confidence in the markets cracked, the ensuing fall could be swift.
尽管周一沪深股市开盘上涨，但很快两市便开始下跌，出现持续抛盘。在过去一段时间，中国的散户投资者靠借贷大量下注推高了股市，他们中的很多人都是年轻且缺乏熊市经验的投资者。数月来市场策略师一直在发出警告，如果市场信心崩溃，接下来的下跌可能会非常迅速。
Rajiv Biswas, chief economist for Asia at IHS Global Insight, said that if Greece defaulted and left the euro, the effects on Europe’s economy and on exporters in Asia would depend on whether European leaders could prevent financial troubles from spreading to Spain, Portugal and possibly Italy. If the damage were not contained, economic output in Asia could drop 0.3 percent next year on lower exports to Europe, Mr. Biswas said.
环球通视(IHS Global Insight)首席亚洲经济学家拉吉夫·比斯瓦斯(Rajiv Biswas)称，如果希腊违约并退出欧元区，对于欧洲经济和亚洲出口商的影响将取决于欧洲的领导人们能否阻止财政问题扩散到西班牙、葡萄牙，甚或意大利。如果损害没有得到遏制，亚洲的经济产出将因为对欧盟出口的下滑而降低0.3%，比斯瓦斯说。