Thousands of Greeks walked off the job on Tuesday in a 24-hour general strike called by unions opposing a new round of austerity measures pledged by the government to the country’s foreign creditors, notably a much-delayed overhaul of the Civil Service involving thousands of layoffs and wage cuts which is to be voted on in Parliament on Wednesday.
数千希腊人周二加入罢工者行列，参加了工会号召的一场24小时的总罢工，工会反对政府向外国借贷者承诺的新一轮紧缩措施，其中包括引人注目的公务员体制改革，改革方案涉及到裁员数千人和削减工资，其出台已拖延已久，议会将在周三对这些措施进行投票表决。
The nationwide walkout, called by the country’s two main labor unions, which represent some 2.5 million workers, shut tax offices and other government services, reduced hospitals to emergency staff and disrupted travel. Trains remained in depots and international flights were to be suspended between noon and 4 p.m. as air traffic controllers joined the action. Public transport workers were running a reduced service to allow Greeks to join protest rallies planned for Athens and other major cities.
这次全国范围的罢工由代表着250万工人的两大主要希腊工会组织，罢工导致税务办公室和其他一些政府机构关门，医院只留下急诊人员，并影响到交通。火车未能开出车站，国际航班也因空中交通指挥人员加入罢工行列而在中午到下午4点之间暂时停航。公共交通工人只保留了有限的服务，让希腊人能参加计划在雅典和其他大城市举行的罢工。
The upheaval came ahead of a vote scheduled for Wednesday night in Parliament on legislation bundling together a new barrage of economic reforms — including a contentious streamlining of the Greek Civil Service. The bill must be passed if Athens is to secure the first installment of $10 billion in rescue loans approved last week by euro zone finance ministers.
这次罢工发生在议会定于周三晚对一项立法投票之前，该法律把一连串新的经济改革措施捆绑在一起，其中包括引起争议的精简公务员体系的方案。如果雅典方面要得到欧元区财长上周批准的第一期100亿美元的紧急救援资金，就必须通过这项立法。
Greece’s troika of foreign lenders — the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund — have pledged the country two bailouts worth a little more than $300 billion since the spring of 2010 but are dispensing the aid in tranches to keep the pressure on authorities to adhere to commitments to change.
希腊外国借贷者的三驾马车——欧洲委员会(European Commission)、欧洲央行(European Central Bank)、以及国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)——自2010年春天以来已经承诺要为该国提供略高于3千亿美元的两笔救援资金，但是要分期发放这些资金，以保持对希腊政府的压力，使其遵守改革的承诺。
The reforms that have most angered the unions are plans to put 25,000 civil servants, including teachers and municipal police officers, into a so-called mobility plan by the end of the year, docking their wages ahead of forced transfers or dismissals. Another 15,000 workers are to be laid off by the end of 2014.
最让工会愤怒的改革措施是政府计划在年底之前将包括教师和市政警察在内的25000名公务员纳入一个所谓的灵活性计划之中，开始克扣他们的工资，直到他们被迫转行或被辞退。到2014年底前，另有15000人将被按计划裁员。
Local government employees have been occupying city buildings this week to protest the changes which, the unions say, will aggravate a deepening recession and add to the ranks of the unemployed who already account for more than 27 percent of the population.
地方政府雇员已经在本周占领了雅典的多座建筑，抗议这些改革措施。工会称，这些措施将会使经济衰退进一步加剧，让更多人加入到失业的行列，失业者已占该国人口27%以上。
“We will resist all those whose wrongheaded and dead-end choices have led the Greek people into poverty and wretchedness,” said the main private sector labor union, Gsee, which called the action with the civil servants’ union, Adedy.
代表私营企业工人的主要工会Gsee称，“我们将反对所有这些执迷不悟、死路一条的选择，这些选择已经让希腊人民陷入贫穷和痛苦之中。”Gsee与代表公务员的工会Adedy共同发起了这次罢工。
A unilateral decision last month by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to shut the state broadcaster ERT, putting some 2,700 employees out of work, nearly brought down his shaky coalition after the junior partner quit in protest. The debacle illustrated the difficulties the administration would have in honoring pledges to creditors to slash a Civil Service that has been cosseted for decades.
上月，首相安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)单方面决定关停国家广播公司ERT，导致约2700名员工失业，一个原来支持他的小党因抗议而退出了执政联盟，差点让其不稳固的政府倒台。这个灾难说明政府在履行对借贷者承诺的裁减受宠几十年的公务员系统上面临的重重困难。
Despite the vehement opposition of unions and workers, Greece’s lenders, prodded by Germany, have pressed authorities to stay the course of reform. Public anger at austerity is expected to peak on Thursday when Germany’s finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, is to visit Athens.
尽管受到工会和工人的强烈反对，但该国的借贷者在德国的促使下给希腊政府施压，让其把改革进行到底。公众对紧缩措施的愤怒预计将在周四达到顶峰，届时德国财政部长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)将访问雅典。