TRADITIONAL ISLAND VILLA ON THE SOUTHEASTERN COAST
希腊东南沿海的一栋传统海岛别墅
$3.97 MILLION (2.9 MILLION EUROS) 
397万美元（290万欧元，约合人民币2465万元）
This house overlooks the beaches of Lia and Kalafati on the tranquil southeastern part of Mykonos. It was built in 1998 in the typical style of the Greek islands, with thick whitewashed walls, exposed wooden ceiling beams, organic architectural forms and an assortment of shaded terraces and nooks that encourage socializing and relaxing. Modern touches include  air-conditioning, under-floor heating and a built-in sound system.
这栋房屋坐落在希腊米科诺斯岛(Mykonos)宁静的东南部海岸，俯瞰着利亚(Lia)与卡拉法蒂(Kalafati)两片海滩。该房屋建于1998年，是希腊海岛建筑的典型风格，有那种粉刷得雪白的厚实墙壁、暴露在外的木质顶梁、有机的建筑形式和各种各样的遮阳露台，以及一些便于社交与休息的角落。屋内的一些现代化设施，包括空调、地暖和一套嵌入式音响系统。
The property, about 1.3 acres, has four separate living units offering a total of five bedrooms, said Nicolas Mugni, the owner of Demeures de Grèce, a real estate agency based in Athens that is listing the property. In addition to the main house, there is an attached guest apartment; a small, rustic cottage that predates the other structures; and a cottage adjacent to the pool.
这处占地约1.3英亩（约合5261平方米）的地产，内有四个各自独立的居住单元，共含五间卧室，据代销该房产的雅典房地产代理公司Demeures de Grèce的经营者尼古拉斯·穆格尼(Nicolas Mugni)说。除主楼之外，还有一套附属的客用公寓、一栋比其它房屋更早建成的乡村小木屋，以及游泳池附近的一栋小木屋。
The main villa is earthquake-resistant, Mr. Mugni said. To accomplish that goal, the foundation and walls are reinforced concrete and brick that have been finished with stucco.
别墅的主楼是防震结构，穆格尼说。为达到防震目标，其地基和墙壁的材料都是钢筋混凝土，和刷了灰泥的砖块。
On the first floor are a living room, a dining area with a fireplace, a kitchen with electric range and a study. An en-suite master bedroom has a terrace with views over the Aegean Sea. Another en-suite bedroom is on the second floor.
别墅的一楼有一间客厅、一处带壁炉的餐厅区、一间带电炉的厨房和一间书房。其中一个主卧套间带有一座可以俯瞰爱琴海(Aegean Sea)的露台。另一个卧室套间位于二楼。
The cottage, set in a grove of olive trees, is reached by a wooden walkway, and has one en-suite bedroom, as does the guest apartment. The cottage next to the heated pool has a double bed; a hammam, or steam room; and gym equipment.
而那栋木屋，建在一座橄榄树园当中，有一条木板路可达。这里和那套客用公寓一样，都有一个卧室套间。那座温水游泳池旁的木屋里有一张双人床、一间土耳其浴室，或称蒸汽房，还有健身设备。
The property is about five minutes’ drive to Lia, the nearest beach; amenities, including shopping and tavernas, are in the town of Ano Mera, which is 10 minutes by car. Mykonos airport, with flights to many European cities, is 20 minutes away. The town of Mykonos, with its night life and world-class restaurants, is about 25 minutes’ drive.
这处房产距离最近的利亚海滩大约5分钟车程；酒馆和商店等便利设施都在阿诺梅拉镇(Ano Mera)，开车大约10分钟可达。米科诺斯岛机场(Mykonos airport)在20分钟路程外，那里有一些航班能飞往多个欧洲城市。而米科诺斯镇则在大约25分钟车程之外，那里有夜生活场所和一些世界级的餐厅。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
The international jet-set appeal of Mykonos has helped the island escape some of Greece’s economic woes. Prices have fallen since 2008, real estate agents said, but sales never completely stopped, and a new wave of buyers from the Middle East has helped compensate for the loss of the Greek market.
米科诺斯岛休闲度假生活的国际吸引力，已助该岛逃过了希腊的数次经济危机。据一些房地产经纪人说，自2008年起房价已经回落，但房地产交易从未完全停止过；而且，新一波中东买家已帮忙弥补了希腊房地产市场的损失。
The most desirable parts of the island are along the west coast, close to the airport and Mykonos town. Beachfront villas there with spectacular views can sell for well over $5 million, said Roi Deldimou, the director of the Mykonos office of Beauchamp Estates. “Everybody specifies sea view, sunset view, proximity to town and beach access,” Ms. Deldimou said.  “But there are only a few properties like that.”
岛上最有吸引力的地段是西海岸一带，靠近机场和米科诺斯镇。那里一些带有壮丽景观的海滨别墅可以卖出远超500万美元（约合人民币3105万元）的价格，Beauchamp Estates公司驻米科诺斯办公室的主管罗伊·德尔蒂默(Roi Deldimou)说。“每个人都指定房子要带海景、可看日落、靠近米科诺斯镇，还能直通海滩，”德尔蒂默说，“但那样的房产只有几栋而已。”
Buyers can find smaller villas on the west coast with lesser views, or properties on the northern and southern coasts, for $2.5 million to about $5 million, agents said. Below that price range, the best properties tend to be part of a cluster of three or four villas that share a common outdoor space with a swimming pool.
买家可以在西海岸找到一些景致略欠、面积较小的别墅；也可以在北海岸和南海岸找到一些价格从250万美元（约合人民币1552万元）到大约500万美元（约合人民币3105万元）不等的房产，经纪人们说。若低于此价格区间，最好的房产一般是三、四栋别墅群当中的一部分。这些别墅共享了一个带有一座户外游泳池的空间。
Those prices might be as much as 40 percent lower than before the European recession started in 2008, agents said, but the drop appears to have been arrested in the last two years.
那样的价格，可能比2008年欧洲经济开始衰退前的价格低了40%，经纪人们说，但房价下跌的趋势在过去两年中似乎已经止住了。
“I don’t think we can say we’re in a rebound yet,” said Yannis Ploumis of Ploumis-Sotiropoulos  real estate in Athens, a Christie’s affiliate. “I think we are expecting a good year. Slowly the market is moving. It never stopped completely, because Mykonos is really an international destination.”
“我觉得，还不能说我们已经反弹了，”佳士得的一家附属公司、雅典房地产公司Ploumis-Sotiropoulos的扬尼斯·波洛米斯(Yannis Ploumis)说。“我想我们都在期待一个景气之年。地产市场正缓慢向前发展，从未完全停下来过，因为米科诺斯岛的确是个国际度假胜地。”
Ms. Deldimou sounded similarly optimistic. “Last year was the best year in the last five years at least. This year is promising,” she said. “That will start to affect the prices, lead them a little higher, but not something dramatic, I think.”
德尔蒂默的话听起来也差不多一样乐观。“至少去年是过去五年来情况最好的一年，今年则更有希望，”她说，“那样的预期将会影响到房价，使其略微上涨一些，但不会涨得太离谱，我想。”
And there are signs, albeit small ones, that international investors have more confidence in the Greek economy.  
而且有迹象表明，国际投资者对希腊经济更有信心了，尽管这些迹象仍比较微弱。
 “I think the government has proved to be resilient,” Mr. Ploumis said. “The fear that Greece would leave the euro zone has passed. Perhaps the real economy and people have not felt it yet, but it’s very much in the air.”
“我想，希腊政府已经证明了自身很有恢复力，”波洛米斯说，“对希腊将离开欧元区的担心已一去不返。或许，实体经纪与普通民众尚未感觉到，但一切正在发生。”
WHO BUYS ON MYKONOS
谁在米科诺斯岛买房
“In the past few years we have worked exclusively with the foreign market,” Mr. Ploumis said. European buyers tend to come from Britain, France, Germany and Italy, he said, with a sizable contingent of Americans, many with Greek ancestors.
“过去几年里，我们一直专注于开发海外市场，”波洛米斯说。欧洲买家一般来自英国、法国、德国和意大利，他说，还有一大批美国人，许多都是希腊后裔。
In recent years, agents said, Mykonos has become popular with buyers from the Middle East — in particular Egypt, Israel and Lebanon — who are looking for an escape from the region’s turmoil. “There is uncertainty in their countries,” Ms. Deldimou said. “For all these people, it is quite easy to be here. It’s more or less the same climate: the sea, the sun.”
一些经纪人说，近些年来，米科诺斯岛越来越受到中东买家的欢迎，尤其是埃及、以色列与黎巴嫩。他们都打算逃离那个地区的动荡环境。“他们的国家存在着不确定因素，”德尔蒂默说，“对所有这些人而言，待在这里相当轻松。气候也差不多是一样的：大海啊，阳光啊。”
She said buyers are looking both for a vacation home for themselves, and to take advantage of Mykonos’s strong rental market. “They always consider the income they are going to have from the property they are going to buy, which is really good.”
她说，买家们不仅在为自己寻找度假别墅，而且打算充分利用米科诺斯岛走势强劲的租赁市场。“他们一直都在权衡，自己会从即将购买的这处房产中获得多少收入。这笔收入的确不错。”
BUYING BASICS
基本购房条件
There are few restrictions on foreign buyers, agents said. Ms. Deldimou said buyers need to secure a Greek bank account and obtain a tax identification number, a process she described as “very simple.”
希腊对外国买家几乎没有什么限制，据一些经纪人说。德尔蒂默说，买家们需要确保有一个希腊银行账户，并取得一个纳税人识别号。她说这是个“非常简单”的程序。
All transactions are handled by a notary, who processes the paperwork and ensures that taxes are paid. While a lawyer is not necessary, agents strongly advised that buyers retain one.
所有交易都由一位公证人操作，负责处理文件，并确保税款如数缴纳。虽然律师不是必须要有，但经纪人们还是强烈建议买家聘请一位。
Prospective buyers should budget 5 percent to 7 percent over the selling price for taxes and fees, agents said. Costs include a transfer tax, which was lowered to 3 percent from 10 percent as of Jan. 1; notary and lawyer fees of about 1.5 percent each; and commission to a buyers’ agent — if one is being used — of about 2 percent.
经纪人说，有意购房者应在售价之外，再做5%至7%的税费预算。购买成本包括一项转让税，这项税款已经从1月1日起由10%降至了3%；公证人和律师费大约各占1.5%；而买家如果找了一名经纪人，支付给他的佣金大约为2%。