ATHENS — Greek voters — angry, tired and scared — went to the polls on Sunday to vote on a high stakes referendum, which could redefine the country’s place in Europe and shake the Continent’s financial stability.
雅典——希腊选民带着愤怒、疲惫、恐惧的情绪周日前往投票站，开始一个高风险的公投，其结果可能会重新定义希腊在欧洲的地位，动摇欧洲大陆的金融稳定。
The poll comes after a week in which voters were barraged with ads that warned that if they did not vote yes, they would soon be without medicine and gasoline.
公投之日到来前的一周里，选民们受到狂轰滥炸式的广告袭击，广告警告说，如果选民不投赞成票，他们不久就会缺少药品和汽油。
With Greek banks closed, the nightly news was filled with images of retirees lining up to get only a fraction of their monthly pensions.
由于希腊银行关门，退休人员不得不排队领取自己每月退休金中的一小部分，晚间新闻中充满了这种画面。
Yet it was hard for many Greeks to know exactly what they were voting on. The ballot actually asks them only to say yes or no to the terms of a deal with Greece’s creditors, which is no longer even on the table.
然而，许多希腊人很难搞清楚他们到底在投票决定什么。选票其实只要求选民对与希腊的债权人达成的协议条款选择“赞成”或“反对”，而这个协议已经不在议事日程之上。
Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece has told them that rejecting the deal will give him more power to negotiate and urged them to do so. But European and opposition leaders have tried to frame the vote as a yes or no to staying in the eurozone and avoiding economic collapse.
希腊总理亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)曾经告诉选民，拒绝协议将赋予他更大的权力去进行谈判，所以总理敦促选民们投反对票。但是，欧洲领导人以及希腊的反对派领导人试图把公投作为对留在欧元区、避免经济崩溃表示“赞成”或“反对”。
Mr. Tsipras voted late Sunday morning in his working class neighborhood in Athens. Afterward, he said the vote was a “celebration of democracy.”
齐普拉斯周日上午晚些时候在自己位于雅典的工薪阶层社区参加了投票。之后，他表示，这次公投是“民主的庆典”。
“Not only will we remain in Europe,” he said. “but we will live with dignity to prosper, to work as equals among equals.”
他说，“我们不仅要留在欧洲，我们还将有尊严地生活，用与欧洲其他平等国家平等的身份，一起繁荣，一起工作。”
On a sunny day, voters trickled into polling stations across Greece, often passing tourists in shorts and floppy hats.
在这个阳光明媚的日子，选民们陆续走进全国各地的投票站，一路上经常能看到穿着短裤、带着软沿帽的游客。
For some voters, the week of hardship — they could only withdraw 60 euros, or about $67, a day from A.T.M.’s and already some pharmacists were refusing to fill prescriptions — had only strengthened their sense that Greece needed to stand up for itself.
对于一些选民来说，一周的艰苦生活只加强了他们认为希腊需要维护自身利益的意识，这一周里，他们每天只能从自动取款机中取出60欧元（约合415元人民币）现金，有些药剂师已拒绝按照医生处方出售药品。
After five years in which unemployment skyrocketed and the country’s economy collapsed by 25 percent, many said that a no vote was at least a vote for hope, the possibility of a new deal, rather than following the mandates of creditors who had failed to set Greece on course to recovery.
经历了失业率暴涨、国内经济萎缩25％的五年之后，许多希腊人说，投“反对”票至少是为希望投票，这会带来谈判新协议的可能性，而不是沿袭债权人制定的旧方案，旧方案没能让希腊走上经济复苏的道路。
For others, the hardship only proved that Greece, like it or not, was in the hands of its creditors and could do little but take whatever terms were being offered. In many cases, they blamed Mr. Tsipras’s young government for having returned the country to recession when it had shown small signs of recovery just before the January elections.
对另一些选民来说，一周的困难只证明了希腊在债权人的掌握之下，不管人们喜欢与否，只能接受债权人提供的任何条款。在许多情况下，他们指责齐普拉斯的年轻政府让希腊重返经济衰退，而​​仅在今年一月份的选举之前，希腊已经表现出了微小的复苏迹象。
At a polling place near the archaeological museum in Athens turnout was low, poll workers said. And people coming out of the voting booths seemed split.
在离雅典考古博物馆不远的一个投票站，前来投票的人不多，投票站的工作人员说。然而，从投票站走出来的人们意见似乎很分裂。
“I voted with my heart and also my mind,” said Marie Triadafillou, who works in transportation logistics and voted yes. “I believe when you are in a union you cannot leave. We say in our country if the sheep leaves the flock it cannot live.”
玛丽·特里亚扎菲卢(Marie Triadafillou)说，“我用我的心、也用我的脑子投下了一票。我认为，一旦你加入联盟，你就不能离开。我们的国家有句俗话，羊一旦离开了羊群就不能生存。”这位女士从事运输物流工作，她投了赞成票。
But others felt that the referendum was not about staying in the eurozone but simply part of the long negotiations between Greece and its creditors, which broke off more than a week ago when a frustrated Mr. Tsipras left Brussels and called for the referendum.
但也有人觉得，公投与是否留在欧元区无关，仅仅是希腊与其债权人的漫长谈判的一部分，这个谈判已在一周多之前中断，当时，倍感沮丧的齐普拉斯离开布鲁塞尔的谈判桌，表示要进行全民公投。
Since then, European officials have refused to negotiate further and to extend a deadline for the last bailout program, triggering a decision by the European Central Bank to cap its emergency support to Greek banks. This forced the government to close the banks for fear of extended bank runs.
自那时起，欧洲官员拒绝了进一步的谈判，也拒绝了延长最近救助计划的有效期限，引发欧洲央行做出决定，为其向希腊银行提供的紧急支持设定了上限。这迫使希腊政府关闭银行，以免发生银行挤兑的扩展。
In Greece, the campaigning for the referendum had to stop on Friday by law. But European leaders seemed to continue their efforts over the weekend.
按照希腊法律，为公投进行的竞选活动必须在周五停止。但是，欧洲领导人似乎在周末仍在继续他们的努力。
Martin Schulz, the head of the European Parliament, who had offered at one point to come to Greece to campaign for a yes vote, said on Sunday that Greece would need to prepare to operate without the euro and with a parallel currency if there was a no vote on Sunday. While Greece would remain in the euro, “they will have to introduce another currency after the referendum because the euro is not available as a means of payment,” he said in an interview broadcast Sunday on Germany’s Deutschlandfunk radio. He added that he hoped the risk of such a change would induce Greeks to vote yes.
欧洲议会会长马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schulz)周日表示，如果公投的结果是“反对”，希腊将需要准备在不再使用欧元、而是一种并行货币的情况下继续运行，舒尔茨在上周的某个时刻曾提出，要去希腊为赞成票竞选。他在周日接受德意志放克音乐台(Deutschlandfunk Radio)的采访时说，虽然希腊会留在欧元区，但“他们在公投后将需要启用另一种货币，因为不能再用欧元作为支付手段。”他补充说，他希望货币变化的风险将促使希腊人投赞成票。
But some European officials seemed eager to calm the waters. The French economy minister, Emmanuel Macron, on Sunday called on Greece’s creditors to resume political discussions with Athens immediately following the referendum, no matter what the outcome, and warned against punishing Greece in the event of a no vote.
但有些欧洲官员似乎急于稳定人心。法国经济部长埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)周日呼吁希腊的债权人在公投之后马上与雅典恢复政治讨论，不管公投结果如何，并警告说，如果“反对”票获胜，不要惩罚希腊。