ATHENS — A large car bomb exploded outside Greece’s central bank Thursday morning, shaking buildings for blocks around but causing no injuries.
雅典——周四上午，一枚大型汽车炸弹在希腊中央银行外爆炸，震动了周边数个街区的建筑，但并未导致人员伤亡。
The blast came as the Greek government announced a triumphant return to international bond markets for the first time in a four-year economic crisis, in which the government accepted multibillion-euro bailouts from international creditors in exchange for austerity conditions that have left many Greeks struggling financially.
爆炸事件发生之际，正值希腊政府宣布，该国成功地重返国际债券市场。这是经济危机爆发四年以来，希腊首次做到这一点。危机中，希腊政府从国际债权人那里接受了数千亿欧元的援助，交换条件是该国采取紧缩政策，而这些举措使得许多希腊民众深陷财务困境。
Greece, which owes more than 240 billion euros, or about $333 billion, to its creditors, said it raised 3 billion euros Thursday in a five-year bond deal at a low interest rate that signaled renewed confidence in a country that was once on the brink of bankruptcy.
希腊亏欠债权人的金额逾2400亿欧元，约合2.07万亿元人民币。该国表示，周四通过五年期低息债券交易筹集了30亿欧元。这表明，外界重拾对这一曾经处于破产边缘的国家的信心。
After the blast, the Greek finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, appeared unperturbed, describing the country’s foray into bond markets as “a catalytic undertaking,” adding that Greece had made “the biggest fiscal adjustment ever recorded since World War II.”
爆炸事件后，希腊财政部长亚尼斯·斯图纳拉斯((Yannis Stournaras)似乎并不为之所动，将该国试水证券市场的动作形容为“具有催化作用的举措”，并称希腊进行了“二战以来史上规模最大的财政调整”。
A government spokesman, Simos Kedikoglou, condemned the bombing. “The evident target of the attackers is to change this image, and change the agenda,” Mr. Kedikoglou said on a morning television news program. “We will not allow the attackers to achieve their aim.”
政府发言人西莫斯·凯迪克奥卢(Simos Kedikoglou)对炸弹袭击予以了谴责。“袭击者的目标显然是动摇这种形象并改变相关议程，”他在早间电视新闻节目中表示。“我们绝不允许袭击者达到他们的目的。”
No one claimed responsibility, but two news outlets received warning calls shortly after 5 a.m. Some offices in the central bank were being used by representatives of Greece’s so-called troika of lenders, the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank.
无人宣布对此事负责，不过有两家新闻机构在刚过清晨5点的时候收到了警报。央行的部分办公室由派驻此地的“三驾马车”的代表使用，也就是向希腊放贷的国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)、欧盟委员会(European Commission)和欧洲央行(European Central Bank)。
The blast shattered windows, leaving intact only two wheels and the axle of the car. Militant groups in Greece have frequently set off bombs near symbolic targets or taken other steps to convey an antigovernment message.
爆炸导致附近的窗户碎裂，仅留下了两只车轮和车轴。希腊的激进组织常常在具有象征意义的目标附近引爆炸弹，或是采取其他一些措施来传达反政府讯息。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who more than any other leader in Europe is associated here with fiscal austerity, is scheduled to travel to Athens on Friday to meet with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and is expected to affirm that the Greek government is on the right economic path.
在希腊，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)被视为欧洲领导人中与财政紧缩的关系最为密切的人物。她定于周五前往雅典会见希腊总理安东尼斯·萨马拉斯(Antonis Samaras)，预计她届时将表示希腊政府正走在正确的经济道路上。
Security around Ms. Merkel’s visit is expected to be tight, with the center of Athens locked down and helicopters patrolling.
默克尔访问的安保工作预计将颇为严密，需要封锁雅典市中心并出动直升飞机巡逻。
On Wednesday, around 20,000 demonstrators gathered near the Parliament building to protest tax increases and spending cuts, and to decry the bond issue as irrelevant for most Greeks.
周三，约2万名示威者聚集在国会大楼附近，抗议增税减支之举，并谴责债券一事与多数希腊民众毫无瓜葛。
Mr. Samaras is trying to burnish Greece’s image at a time when international investors are starting to believe the long-running European debt crisis may be over. He has hailed the bond sale as a success story reflecting optimism that Greece and other euro zone countries have turned a corner.
当国际投资人开始认为长期欧洲债务危机或许已经终结之时，萨马拉斯正努力重塑希腊的形象。他称赞债券发行是一种成功，反映了希腊等欧元区国家已经扭转颓势的乐观情绪。
The bond offering also comes ahead of pivotal local elections in Greece in May that coincide with elections for the European Parliament in which Mr. Samaras’s New Democracy party faces a challenge from the leftist Syriza party and from the far-right Golden Dawn group, whose appeal has grown among Greeks weary of the austerity measures.
债券发行的时机，也恰好在五月的两大选举之前。一是关键的希腊地方选举，二是欧洲议会的选举。萨马拉斯所在的新民主党(New Democracy)面临左翼激进联盟(Syriza)和极右翼的金色黎明党(Golden Dawn)的挑战。在厌倦紧缩措施的希腊民众中，金色黎明党的吸引力有所增强。