A devotional anticipation is generated by the announcement of a new Haruki Murakami book. Readers wait for his work the way past generations lined up at record stores for new albums by the Beatles or Bob Dylan. There is a happily frenzied collective expectancy — the effect of cultural voice, the Murakami effect. Within seven days of its midnight release, “Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage” sold over one million copies in Japan. I envision readers queuing up at midnight outside Tokyo bookstores: the alienated, the athletic, the disenchanted and the buoyant. I can’t help wondering what effect the book had on them, and what they were hoping for: the surreal, intra-dimensional side of Murakami or his more minimalist, realist side?
村上春树发布新书的消息激起虔诚的期待。读者们等待他的作品，就像过去几代人在唱片店外排队，等待“披头士”(Beatles)或鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)的新专辑一样。这是一种欢快而狂热的集体期待，它是文学之声效应，也是“村上效应”。《没有色彩的多崎作和他的巡礼之年》于某个午夜在日本发行，七天就卖出了100多万本。我想像着那些午夜时分在东京的书店外排队买书的读者们，那些孤独的人、爱好运动的人、感到幻灭的人和活泼快乐的人。我忍不住去想，这本书对他们会有什么样的影响，而他们又在期待什么：是村上超现实、向内扩展的一面，抑或更具极简主义和现实主义的一面呢？
I had a vague premonition this book would be rooted in common human experience, less up my alley than the alien textures woven throughout “The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.” Yet I also sensed strange notes forming, coiling within a small wound that would not heal. Whichever aspect of himself Murakami drew from in order to create “Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage,” it lies somewhere among the stones of his mystical labors.
我隐约有种预感，觉得这本书或许是植根在人类的普遍经验之中，而不像《奇鸟行状录》里那样，贯穿着更合我胃口的诡异结构。然而我还是感觉到奇异的音符在一个无法痊愈的小小伤口之内成型、旋绕。不管村上为创作《没有色彩的多崎作和他的巡礼之年》拿出了自己的哪一面，它都存在于构筑其神秘劳动成果的石料中。
He sits at his desk and makes this story: a young man’s traumatic entrance into adulthood and the shadowy passages he must subsequently negotiate. His protagonist’s name, Tsukuru, means “to make,” a metaphor for the writer’s process. He is 36 years old and builds and refurbishes train stations, continuously observing how to improve them. He has the touching habit of sitting in them for hours, watching trains arrive and depart and the symphonic flow of people. His love of railway stations connects him with each stage of his life — from toys, to study, to action. It is the one bright spot in an existence he imagines is pallid.
他坐在桌前，开始写这个故事：一个年轻男子长大成人时的创伤经历，以及其后必须进行的充满阴影的旅程。主人公的名字“作”带有“制作”的意思，是对作家写作过程的隐喻。多崎作36岁，工作是建造和翻修火车站，他总在观察如何去改进它们。他有一种动人的习惯，就是接连几个小时坐在火车站里，望着火车来来去去，倾听人流的交响。对火车站的爱维系着他人生的各个阶段，它们从玩具变成了学习和行动。在他自认为平淡苍白的生活中，火车站是一个亮点。
In a sense, Tsukuru is colorless by default. As a young man he belonged to a rare and harmonious group of friends wherein all but he had a family name corresponding to a color: Miss White, Miss Black, Mr. Red, Mr. Blue. He privately mourned this, sometimes feeling like a fifth leaf in a four-leaf clover. Yet they were as necessary to one another as the five fingers of a hand. As a sophomore in college, without explanation, he is suddenly and irrevocably banished from the group, cut off and left to drop into a murky abyss. Belonging nowhere, he becomes nothing.
在某种意义上，多崎作天生就“没有色彩”。年轻时他有一群出类拔萃、关系融洽的朋友，除了他，其他人的姓氏中都带有颜色：白小姐、黑小姐、赤先生和青先生。私下里他也曾经为此深深遗憾，有时候觉得自己就像四叶苜蓿上的第五片叶子，不过五个朋友还是像五根手指一样密不可分。但在大学二年级时，他突然无可挽回地被这个团体驱逐了，没有任何解释就被摒弃，被抛入阴暗的深渊。他不再属于任何地方，他成了无关紧要的人。
Tsukuru Tazaki’s unfathomable anguish seems to contain every color of the rainbow. The colorless color of death. He pictures his heart stopping but does not take his life, as no method of suicide corresponds with his “pure and intense feelings” for death. He survives the terrible disaffection but carries profound invisible scars. Precise without, desperate within; plagued by graphic sexual dreams, aspects of astral projection, nameless guilt and confusion. A strange fellow even unto himself, tangled up and colorless.
多崎作深沉的痛苦似乎包涵了彩虹的每一种颜色，那是死亡的无彩之色。他觉得自己的心跳停止了，但是生命却没有停止，没有任何一种自杀方式能与他对死亡“纯粹而强烈的感觉”相称。经历过这次可怕的背叛，他活下来了，但心中满是看不见的深深伤痕。外表精确严密，内心绝望无助；受到栩栩如生的性梦侵扰，还有灵魂出窍的感觉，以及无名的负罪感和困惑。他在某些方面变成了一个陌生人，纠结而没有色彩。
Despite this torment he completes his education, becomes an engineer and builds and refines those railroad stations with an equal sense of romanticism and practical application. He leaves each more appealing, more efficient by his deft though subtle changes. Yet his self-regard is low; he does not seem to appreciate that his name and profession are beautifully in sync. Thankfully the universe sees him more clearly than he sees himself, as fate presents him with two guides on a wrenching yet revelatory journey.
虽然经历了这样的痛苦，他还是完成学业，成了一名工程师，带着同等的浪漫主义和实用思想去建造和翻修火车站。火车站经过他娴熟而微妙的改建，无不变得更美、效率更高。但他对自己的评价却很低，并不认为自己的名字和职业琴瑟和谐。幸好上天对他的看法更加清晰，命运为这段痛苦而又颇具启示的旅途送来了两个向导。
The first, Haida, also has a color — his name means “gray field.” He and Tsukuru swim laps together in a college pool. Swimming is precious to both men, just as it was a saving grace for Toru Okada in “The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.” Haida enriches Tsukuru’s life, infusing it with imagination and physical energy. He draws him into the realm of classical music, striking a deep chord when he plays a recording of Liszt’s “Years of Pilgrimage.” A familiar passage in the first movement leads Tsukuru back to emotional memories of his four colorful friends. He envisions the ethereal Shiro (Miss White) at her piano and her delicate interpretation of the same piece. Kindled by the melancholy strains of “Le Mal du Pays,” he revisits his pain without turning his thoughts immediately toward death.
首先是灰田，这个名字也有色彩，是“灰色的田野”的意思。他和多崎作一起在某个大学的泳池游泳。游泳对两人来说都很重要，和《奇鸟行状录》里的冈田亨一样，算得上是他们的一技之长。灰田丰富了多崎作的人生，为他的生活带来了想像力与身体的活力。他带领多崎走进古典音乐的王国，为多崎播放李斯特的《旅行岁月》，深深触动了多崎的心弦。第一乐章中一段熟悉的旋律瞬间唤醒了多崎对四个有色彩的朋友们充满感情的回忆。他回想着超凡脱俗的柚木（就是白小姐）在钢琴上娴熟地弹起这首曲子时的样子。在《乡愁》(Le Mal du Pays)忧郁的旋律触动之下，他回忆着自己的痛苦，却没有立即再次产生死亡的念头。
Haida recounts an extraordinary story about a dying pianist who sees the colors of auras surrounding every human. Tsukuru does not openly react. Instead, something hypersexual is awakened as he succumbs to the mysterious atmosphere of remembrance. In a “different sphere of reality,” one “imbued with all the qualities of a dream,” he has an intense sexual encounter with Miss White and Miss Black, somewhat orchestrated in this parallel dream state by Mr. Gray. Choked into awareness, he is finally able to connect with others and experience a physical release beyond swimming.
灰田给他讲了一个濒死钢琴家的精彩故事，此人能看到笼罩在每个人周身的颜色。多崎并没有直率地回应。相反，当他沉浸在神秘的回忆氛围中，过人的欲望在他体内觉醒了。在一个“具备一切梦的特质”的“另一个现实的相位”中，他和白小姐与黑小姐发生了激烈的性接触，与此同时和“灰先生”的平行梦中状态交相映衬。猛然觉察到之后，多崎终于能够与他人产生联系，并从游泳当中体验到身体的释放。
This friendship dissolves when Haida disappears — a further source of pain and self-evaluation for Tsukuru, who sadly wonders if he is “fated to always be alone,” nothing but an empty vessel for others to rest protectively within, then wordlessly fly away. Yet Haida serves an important purpose, filling Tsukuru’s postsuicidal days with companionship and shaking him out of his solitary torpor. He purposely leaves the three-record set of “Years of Pilgrimage” behind as a touchstone, a swirl of bittersweet memories connecting himself, Shiro and Tsukuru.
随着灰田的消失，这段友谊也消散了——这又导致了多崎进一步的痛苦与自我评估，他痛苦地想着，自己是不是“注定永远孤独”，对于其他人来说，自己可能什么都不是，只是一个空洞的容器，可以在内部暂时休憩，之后便一言不发地飞速离开。然而灰田的出现还有一个重要的作用，他让多崎脱离自杀想法之后的日子里有了陪伴，摆脱了孤独的麻木。他刻意把三唱片一套的《旅行岁月》作为纪念留了下来，这是一段甜蜜与苦涩交织的回忆，联系着他、柚木与多崎。
A second guide, Tsukuru’s girlfriend Sara, has no color in her name, but she is definitely color-coordinated. When she prods him about his early life, Tsukuru hesitantly relays the scarring story of the loss of his four friends. She senses he will not be whole until he confronts the submerged questions of his past, which seem to be coursing toward the future. As wounds develop a protective crust, the soul flows dangerously beneath them. Sara sometimes seems more therapist than love interest, but he is deeply drawn to her. He expresses love, she fondness. But her driving curiosity spurs him to action. It is not the acuteness of suffering but desire that propels him. With Sara’s assistance he systematically finds his friends, located as close as his boyhood home of Nagoya and as far afield as Finland. To tackle the unresolved takes tremendous courage. He boldly seeks out each finger of the once harmonious hand, inadvertently unveiling its terrible secret.
第二个向导是多崎的女朋友沙罗，她的名字里也没有颜色，但她无疑有调和色彩的能力。她探究他的早年生活，多崎犹豫地讲出了自己失去四个朋友的创伤。沙罗觉得他如果不去直面潜藏在过去的问题，就永远不会完整，那些过去就像是对未来的诅咒。创伤已经形成保护的痂壳，灵魂在其下危险地涌动。沙罗对他有时更像是治疗师，而不是恋人，但他深深受她吸引。他向她表达了爱意，她也很喜欢。但她强烈的好奇刺激着他采取行动。推动他的不是剧烈的痛苦，而是渴望。在沙罗的帮助下，他有条不紊地找到了他的朋友们，最近的就住在他们的童年家乡名古屋，最远的住在芬兰乡间。去揭开这桩未解之谜需要巨大的勇气。他勇敢地去寻觅这个曾经和谐的团体中的每一个人，不顾结果地去揭开可怕的秘密。
On a first reading, “Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage” seems kin to Murakami’s more minimalist novels “Sputnik Sweetheart” or “Norwegian Wood,” but it does not really fall into that category. Nor is it written with the energetic vibe of “Pinball, 1973” or in the multidimensional vein of his masterpiece, “The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.” Here and there realism is tinged with the parallel worlds of “1Q84,” particularly through dreams. The novel contains a fragility that can be found in “Kafka on the Shore,” with its infinite regard for music. Hardly a soul writes of the listening and playing of music with such insight and tenderness. We are given a soundtrack: Liszt’s “Le Mal du Pays,” from “Years of Pilgrimage.” A favored interpreter: Lazar Berman. A favored way to listen: vinyl on a turntable.
初读《没有色彩的多崎作和他的巡礼之年》会觉得它很像村上那些极简主义的小说，如《斯普特尼克恋人》和《挪威的森林》，但它其实并不属于那个种类。它也没有《1973年的弹子球》中那种活力气息，或是他的代表作《奇鸟行状录》中的多重脉络。在《1Q84》的平行世界里，现实主义色彩处处可见。而这部小说中则有着《海边的卡夫卡》也有的那种脆弱之感，并伴随着对音乐的大量描述。很少有人能够带着这样的洞察力和温柔去描写对音乐的聆听和演奏。我们得到了一段背景音乐：李斯特《旅行岁月》中的《乡愁》。最理想的演奏者是拉扎尔·贝尔曼(Lazar Berman)，最理想的聆听方式则是用黑胶唱机听。