Patti Smith, the rock poet and National Book Award winner for 2010’s “Just Kids,” will release a follow-up memoir, titled “M Train,” on Oct. 6, the publisher Knopf announced on Monday.
摇滚诗人帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)曾凭借《只是孩子》(Just Kids)获得2010年美国国家图书奖(National Book Award)。周一，诺夫出版公司(Knopf)宣布将于10月6日出版她的后续回忆录，名为《M列车》(M Train)。
While “Just Kids” centered on Ms. Smith’s formative years in New York City and her almost cosmic relationship with the artist Robert Mapplethorpe, “M Train” is “a coffee-saturated odyssey into the mind of a legendary artist, told through the prism of the cafes and haunts she has worked in around the world,” Knopf said in a statement.
《只是孩子》主要讲述史密斯在纽约市的成长以及她与艺术家罗伯特·梅普尔索普(Robert Mapplethorpe)的复杂关系。诺夫出版公司在声明中说，《M列车》则是“弥漫着咖啡香味的漫长历险之旅，通过她在世界各地工作过的咖啡馆和常去之地，讲述这位传奇艺术家漫长的心路历程”。
Ms. Smith called the new book “a roadmap to my life.” Her publisher said the memoir will take readers through 18 “stations” that proved influential in Ms. Smith’s work and personal development, “from Frida Kahlo’s Casa Azul in Mexico, to a meeting of an Arctic explorer’s society in Berlin; from the ramshackle seaside bungalow in New York’s Far Rockaway that Smith buys just before Hurricane Sandy hits, to the graves of Genet, Plath, Rimbaud and Mishima.”
史密斯称这本新书是“我的人生路标”。出版公司说，这本回忆录将带领读者走过18座“车站”，这些“车站”对史密斯的事业和个人发展具有重要意义，“从墨西哥弗里达·卡洛(Frida Kahlo)的蓝房子(Casa Azul)，到北极探险家协会在柏林的一次会议；从飓风桑迪袭击前，史密斯在纽约法罗卡韦买下的摇摇欲坠的海边小屋，再到热内(Genet)、普拉斯(Plath)、兰波(Rimbaud)和三岛由纪夫的墓地”。
“M Train” will also cover Ms. Smith’s marriage to the MC5 guitarist Fred Smith, who died in 1994 at the age of 44. Teasing the sequel in 2012, Ms. Smith told Billboard that the book is “in more of the ‘Just Kids’ vein and even in the similar time period, but shifts more to family, Fred, music.”
《M列车》也将讲述史密斯与MC5乐队吉他手弗雷德·史密斯(Fred Smith)的婚姻。1994年，44岁的弗雷德去世。2012年，史密斯在接受《公告牌》(Billboard)采访时开玩笑地谈起这部续集，说它“主要渗透在《只是孩子》的血脉里，它们讲述的几乎是同一时期的事，不过《M列车》更多是关于家庭、弗雷德和音乐”。
“I don’t have a big rock ’n’ roll lifestyle, a sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll story to tell,” she added. “I think I have maybe a better story.”
“我讲述的不是摇滚生活方式，不是性、毒品和摇滚故事，”她补充说，“我觉得我讲的故事也许更好。”