MILAN — Standing in the art-soaked splendor of a Milanese parlor as an array of A-list Italian business leaders listened intently, Howard D. Schultz, chairman and chief executive of Starbucks, recited a remarkable statistic on Friday: Each week, roughly 90 million people pass through a Starbucks somewhere on earth.
米兰——周五，在一间充满艺术气息的米兰会客厅中，星巴克(Starbucks)董事长兼首席执行官霍华德·D·舒尔茨(Howard D. Schultz)向正在凝神聆听的意大利商界领袖列举了一个惊人的数据：每个星期，大约有9000万人会经过地球上某个地方的星巴克。
Equally remarkable, given that Starbucks operates in 70 countries, is this: Not one of those people is in Italy, a country where coffee culture is central to daily life, and that represents something of a coffee holy grail to Schultz. Italy, land of the perfect espresso and the exquisitely frothy cappuccino, is a Starbucks-free nation.
考虑到星巴克在70个国家开展业务，同样引人注意的一点是：那些人中没有一个在意大利，尽管这个国家的咖啡文化是日常生活中极为重要的部分，在舒尔茨的心目中也有着咖啡圣杯的意义。意大利，一个出产完美浓缩咖啡和铺着绵密奶泡的卡布奇诺的地方，没有星巴克。
Or it was. Schultz swooped into Milan during Fashion Week to announce that Starbucks would open its first coffee shop in Italy early next year, in Milan. Given that Starbucks is opening 500 stores a year in China, the Milan venture might seem like a nice little ornament. But for Schultz, coming to Italy is personal. It is also delicate — and a bit of a risk.
或者说，曾经没有。舒尔茨在时装周期间赶到米兰，宣布星巴克将于明年年初在意大利米兰开设第一家咖啡店。考虑到星巴克在中国一年就开设了500家门店，在米兰的投资似乎只是一个不错的小点缀。但对于舒尔茨，来意大利是有个人感情因素。此外这也是件需要小心应对的事——存在一定风险。
“There are very few markets and stores that I'm as intimately involved in as this,” he said in an interview after the announcement. He added, “We're going to come here with great humility.”
“很少有市场和门店能像这家门店一样，让我亲身参与其中，”他在宣布消息后接受采访说。他还说，“我们怀着万分谦卑的心来到这里。”
Starbucks has always been careful in Europe, aware that the Continent's coffee aficionados have refined tastes and an abundance of good coffee shops — and might take offense at the idea that an American company is needed for a better espresso. Yet Starbucks has marched successfully into Britain, France and Germany, and it has even found success in Vienna, the Austrian capital, which gave birth to the coffeehouse.
星巴克在欧洲一直小心翼翼，他们明白，这个大陆的咖啡爱好者都有高雅的品味，而且有的是上好的咖啡馆——还有，要让一家美国公司来提供更好的意式咖啡，这想法本身可能就会惹怒他们。然而，星巴克已成功进军英国、法国和德国，甚至在奥地利首都维也纳——咖啡馆的诞生之地，也获得了成功。
Italy, though, is Italy.
但是，意大利是意大利。
“I think young people will try it out, for curiosity,” said Orlando Chiari, the 82-year-old owner of Camparino, a century-old coffee bar in central Milan, “but I doubt it will become a major player in Italy.”
“我觉得年轻人会出于好奇尝试一下，”位于米兰市中心的百年咖啡吧Camparino的82岁老板奥兰多·基亚里(Orlando Chiari)说道，“但我怀疑它能在意大利受到欢迎。”
Chiari, impeccable in a gray suit and light blue shirt, said that about 1,500 clients came to his bar every day, and that few were titillated by “new trends.” He decided against deliveries of the sports drink Red Bull because it simply would not sell at Camparino.
穿着一身无可挑剔的灰色套装和浅蓝色衬衫的基亚里说，每天大约1500位客人来他的咖啡吧，而很少有人会对“新潮流”感兴趣。他决定不提供运动饮料红牛(Red Bull)，因为在Camparino根本卖不出去。
“We worship coffee in Italy, while Americans drink coffee on the go in large cups,” he elaborated. “It's two extremely different cultures.”
“在意大利我们崇拜咖啡，而美国人拿着一个大杯子走着喝，”他详细解释道。“这是两种截然不同的文化。”
Schultz credits Italy's distinct coffee culture for inspiring him to create the Starbucks of today. In 1983, he visited Milan for a trade show and wandered into coffee bars in the city. Then, he was marketing director for Starbucks, a chain of four stores in Seattle that sold coffee for people to make at home. His visit to Milan's coffee bars convinced him that the coffee shop was an experience and culture that could work in the United States.
舒尔茨认为正是意大利独特的咖啡文化启发他造就了今天的星巴克。1983年，他去米兰参加一个贸易展，并走进了市内的一家咖啡馆。那时他是星巴克的营销总监，而星巴克是一家拥有四家门店的连锁企业，在西雅图出售供人们回家冲饮的咖啡。他对米兰咖啡吧的造访，使他确信咖啡馆是一种可以被美国接受的体验和文化。
Schultz has returned to Italy at least once a year since then, befriending business leaders while studying the local market. His lunchtime announcement ceremony, held in the refined, 19th-century setting of an elegant apartment, was an open embrace from Italy's business elite: Brunello Cucinelli, the fashion designer and cashmere specialist, mingled with Nerio Alessandri, founder and president of Technogym, a maker of fitness equipment. Cristina Nonino, chief executive of one of Italy's most famous producers of grappa, was there, as was Renzo Rosso, chairman of OTB Group, parent company of Diesel and other clothing brands.
从那以后，舒尔茨每年至少回一次意大利，结交商界领袖，同时研究本地市场。他在午餐时间举行的发布仪式，选在了一间优雅精致的19世纪风格公寓中举行，得到了意大利商界精英的欢迎：时装设计师和羊绒专家布鲁内洛·库奇内利(Brunello Cucinelli)与健身器材制造商泰诺健(Technogym)的创始人和总裁内里奥·亚历山德里(Nerio Alessandri)相谈甚欢。意大利最著名的格拉巴酒生产商之一的首席执行官克里斯蒂娜·诺尼诺(Cristina Nonino)也在那里，还有迪赛(Diesel)和其他服装品牌的母公司OTB集团董事长伦佐·罗索(Renzo Rosso)。
“Here, he was inspired,” said Leonardo Ferragamo, a director of the luxury Salvatore Ferragamo line, who met Schultz for the first time on Friday. “He understood the tradition of drinking coffee at the bar, which is unique to Italy.”
“在这里，他受到了启发，”奢侈品牌Salvatore Ferragamo董事莱昂纳多·菲拉格慕(Leonardo Ferragamo)说道，这是他第一次与舒尔茨会面。“他了解在咖啡吧喝咖啡的传统，这是意大利特有的。”
Word began to leak out in October that Starbucks was looking at Italy. The company will partner with Percassi, the Italian retail and real estate group, which will own and operate the stores as licensee. Schultz said the first store in Milan would open early next year, followed by others in the city before the company expands elsewhere in Italy. And as has happened in other countries, Starbucks will tailor itself to local coffee habits.
10月份有消息称，星巴克正在关注意大利市场。它将与意大利零售和房地产集团Percassi合作，后者以被授权人的身份拥有和经营门店。舒尔茨表示，米兰的第一家门店将在明年年初开业，随后将扩展到意大利的其他城市。和其他国家的情况一样，星巴克会调整自己的口味以适应当地的咖啡习惯。
Schultz said he was “involved in every detail of this opening,” underscoring the sentimental and strategic importance he assigns to Italy. Coming back to the place he considers the taproot of the Starbucks experience does bring risks, especially if the company falls flat with Italian customers. But success would bring rewards, especially symbolic, as Schultz returns to the country synonymous with great coffee.
舒尔茨说他“参与了开设这家门店方方面面的工作，”强调了意大利在他心目中的情感和战略重要性。回到他认为是星巴克体验发源地的地方，确实会带来风险，尤其是如果公司没有达到意大利顾客的要求。但是成功的回报也会很大，尤其是在象征意义上，因为舒尔茨回到了作为美味咖啡代名词的国家。
“He loves Italy more than many Italians,” said Gianmario Tondato Da Ruos, chief executive of Autogrill, the global food and beverage operator for travelers, which is a partner of Starbucks in the United States. “Really.”
“他比许多意大利人更喜欢意大利，”星巴克在美国的合作伙伴、全球旅游食品和饮料经营商Autogrill的首席执行官吉安马里奥·托纳多·达·鲁奥斯(Gianmario Tondato Da Ruos)说。“真的是这样。”