First, the bad news: Since Paris is one of the world’s most visited cities, seeing its best-known monuments and museums can require wading through masses of people and waiting in long lines. If you’re traveling with children, you will probably be exhausted before you even get inside.
首先，是坏消息：鉴于巴黎是世界上游客最多的城市之一，游览名气最大的历史遗址和博物馆需要穿过汹涌的人群并在漫长队列中无尽地等待。如果你带孩子旅游，很可能还没跨进景区大门就已筋疲力尽。
Now the good: The city is filled with lesser-known draws that are authentic, often queue-free and a pleasure to visit en famille. The secret to a successful family visit is to discover these sites at a leisurely pace, and to explore your neighborhood’s microcosm of parks, bakeries and cafes. In other words, forget the Paris you think you’re supposed to see, and you’ll get much more out of the Paris that’s actually there.
然后是好消息：巴黎到处都是名气不高但质量不错的景观，它们一般不需要排队，非常适合家庭出游的人。家庭之旅成功的秘密是，以一种休闲的节奏探索那些景点，以及探索你住所周边的小宇宙，包括公园、面包房和咖啡馆。换句话说，忘掉那个你计划中游览的巴黎，就会看到巴黎更丰富更真实的一面。
To do that, it helps to debunk some Parisian lore. First, the weather: “April in Paris” is just a song; the sun often doesn’t emerge until mid-June. Then there are the people: Paris is not a den of anti-Semitism or adultery; Parisians are generally monogamous and tolerant. (And also quite civil, so long as you preface every interaction with “Bonjour.”) And the biggest myth of all: that Paris is for lovers; it’s also for families — just ask the French, who now have one of Europe’s highest birthrates. The city is compact, safe and covered with playgrounds and kid-friendly places. Here are a few of them.
为了达成这个目标，首先要刺破几个流行的巴黎传说。第一，天气：《四月巴黎》(April in Paris)只是一首歌的名字，6月中旬之前太阳一般不会出来的。然后就是人民：巴黎并非到处都是反犹太主义者和色情狂，大部分巴黎人都是一夫一妻主义者，心态包容（同时也非常文明，只要你每次互动都以法语的“你好[Bonjour]”开头）。最大的迷思是——巴黎是情人的城市；其实巴黎也适合全家人一起游览。不信请直接询问法国人——目前法国拥有欧洲最高的出生率。整个城市紧凑、安全，到处都是游乐场和适合儿童的去处。以下就是其中的几个：
Lesson Plan
课程计划
Opt for smaller museums that you can tour in an hour or so, which is about as much as most little kids (and some grown-ups, myself included) can absorb. The Musée de la Chasse et de la Nature, the Museum of Hunting and Nature (60, rue des Archives, Third Arrondissement), mixes art and natural history, to great effect. There are displays of antique dog collars, a gorilla posed in front of still-life paintings, and a pair of lifelike stuffed lions who appear to have wandered into a drawing room. One way to lure children to the museum: mention the wooden drawers containing the dung of various animals.
选择规模较小、半小时就能逛完的博物馆，这也是大部分儿童（以及包括我在内的部分成年人）能够忍耐的专注时长。狩猎及大自然博物馆（Musée de la Chasse et de la Nature；60, rue des Archives，第九区）融合了艺术和自然史，效果很棒。展品有古典的狗项圈、在静物画前面摆pose的大猩猩，还有两只实物大小的玩具填充狮子正昂首阔步走进一间画室。吸引孩子进入博物馆的一个办法：告诉他们那些装满各种动物粪便的木头抽屉。
The Jardin des Plantes (Place Valhubert, Fifth Arrondissement) houses several separate, manageably sized attractions. Check out the live animals at La Ménagerie, an 18th-century zoo featuring a monkey house, reptile rooms and a Chinese panther. (It’s on the far right as you enter from Place Valhubert.) Then visit the striking collection of animal skeletons at the Grand Gallery of Evolution on the ground floor of the National Museum of Natural History. You can break up these longer explorations with dashes through the 17th-century gardens, rides on the merry-go-round and lunch.
植物园（Jardin des Plantes; Place Valhubert，第五区）里有好几个面积适中的景点。动物园(La Ménagerie)建于18世纪，内有许多活着的动物，园内有猿猴馆、爬行动物馆，还有一只中国黑豹（如果你从Place Valhubert大街的入口开始，动物馆在最右边）。接下来请到国立自然史博物馆(National Museum of Natural History)一楼的《进化大艺廊》(Grand Gallery of Evolution)探访大量令人震惊的动物骨骼。如果你觉得这些活动耗时较长，中间可以插入一些休闲项目，比如17世纪的花园、旋转木马以及午餐。
The Pompidou Center (19, rue Beaubourg, Fourth Arrondissement) has a hands-on children’s area called La Galerie des Enfants, with rotating exhibits designed by artists (one devoted to Frida Kahlo opens in mid-October). It’s free for kids; adults need a museum ticket. Add to that a brief tour of the main collections on Levels 4 and 5, a stunning view across Paris from Level 6, a jaunt through the terrific ground-floor gift shop, and lunch next door at one of the cafes opposite the fantastical Stravinsky Fountain, and you have yourself a très bonne journée.
蓬皮杜中心（Pompidou Center；19, rue Beaubourg, 第四区）有个儿童体验区叫做婴幼艺廊(La Galerie des Enfants)，里面有艺术家设计的各种巡回展览（一个献给弗里达·卡罗[Frida Kahlo]的展览将于10月中旬开幕）。儿童免费，成年人需买博物馆门票。看完这个展览以后，还可以去四层和五层欣赏主展览区的作品，六层可以俯瞰巴黎美妙风光，再到一楼的礼物商店看看漂亮的纪念品。隔壁有不少小餐馆，选择正对着充满梦幻感的斯特拉文斯基喷泉(Stravinsky Fountain)的那家餐馆吃顿午餐，就构成一次完美的旅行。
To show children that there was life before the Internet, take them to the Musée des Arts et Métiers, the museum of arts and trades (60, rue Réaumur, Third Arrondissement, arts-et-metiers.net). Its collections of antique movie cameras, televisions, cars, printing presses, construction materials and scientific instruments tell the story of the industrial revolution and the birth of mass communication.
为了让孩子们了解互联网出现之前的人类生活，就带他们到手工艺博物馆（Musée des Arts et Métiers； 60, rue Réaumur，第三区; arts-et-metiers.net）。这里收藏的摄影摄像机、电视机、汽车、印刷机、建筑材料和各种科学仪器讲述了工业革命的故事以及大众传播的诞生。 
Among the major monuments, Notre Dame Cathedral (notredamedeparis.fr), with its well-marked entrance and U-shaped tour, is both a speedy and awe-inspiring place for children. Make sure to take a breather at the shady little park in back. If it’s Sunday, follow the tweeting to the nearby Marché aux Fleurs et aux Oiseaux, the bird market on the Place Louis Lépine (open Sundays from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.). Obviously, when you arrive, you should tweet that you’re there.
在最著名的历史遗址中，巴黎圣母院(Notre Dame Cathedral; notredamedeparis.fr)有着识别率极高的入口和U型观光路线，耗时虽短，但仍会给孩子们留下深刻的印象。别忘了在后院小花园的树荫里休息一下。如果你们周日来访，请随着鸟鸣到达附近路易列宾广场（Place Louis Lépine；周日上午8点至下午7点）上的花鸟市场(Marché aux Fleurs et aux Oiseaux)。当然，你到达的时候，应该发条推特宣布你的行踪。
Snack Time
零食时间
Let your child’s love affair with Paris start with an authentic French breakfast. Any cafe will serve tartines, sliced baguettes with butter and jam. Kids can dip the bread in chocolat chaud (hot chocolate; a bit of chocolate in the morning is supposed to fortify children for the day) or spoon on some gooey oeuf à la coque, a soft-boiled egg served in the shell. (The egg holder, called a coquetier, makes a great souvenir.) Croissants and pain au chocolat are of course on offer too, though these tend to be occasional treats for French children.
让孩子对巴黎的爱恋从一顿正宗的法式早餐开始。所有餐馆都供应果酱面包片(tartine)，也即涂了黄油和果酱的切片法棍面包。孩子们可以将面包在巧克力热饮（chocolat chaud；上午吃点巧克力能为一天的活动储存精力）中蘸一下，或者用勺子挖食贝壳中煮得半熟的鸡蛋（盛鸡蛋的容器叫做coquetier，是种不错的旅游纪念品）。牛角面包和巧克力面包当然也是不错的选择，尽管这些东西法国孩子并不常吃。
Children are welcome in non-fancy restaurants, but they’re expected to more or less behave. (Try the French habit of not letting them snack except in the afternoon; hungry children are more motivated to sit and eat.)
非豪华餐馆也欢迎儿童入内，但他们仍然需要举止得体（尝试一下法国人的习惯，除了下午茶时间严谨孩子吃零食；饥饿的孩子一般有更强烈的动机在餐桌上举止得当）。
There are now some “kid-friendly” Parisian restaurants, a concept so new the French use the English expression. But in aesthetics-obsessed Paris, the restaurants are compatible with adult tastes, too. Les 400 Coups (12 bis, rue de la Villette, 19th Arrondissement, les400coups.eu/The-restaurant.html; closed through Aug. 21) has a play area for kids, and a weekend brunch made from fresh ingredients. It’s a good springboard to an outing in the nearby Parc des Buttes Chaumont.
目前巴黎有些“面向儿童(kid-friendly)”的饭店，这是一个非常新的概念，至今法语也是在借用英语来表达。但在迷恋艺术的巴黎，这些饭店也兼容成年人的品味。Les 400 Coups (12 bis, rue de la Villette, 第19区, les400coups.eu/The-restaurant.html; 8月21日之前不开业)有一个儿童游乐区，还有个新鲜食材做成的周末早午餐。这里是前往附近的博特修蒙公园(Parc des Buttes Chaumont)一个不错的跳板。
Le Comptoir Général (80, quai de Jemmapes, 10th Arrondissement, lecomptoirgeneral.com) is an Africa-themed bazaar and canteen for the bourgeois-bohemian families known as bobo’s, who live near the Canal St.-Martin. It’s open daily from 11 a.m. On weekends there are mini flea markets, curiosity cabinets and, most important, brunch.
Le Comptoir Général（80, quai de Jemmapes, 第10区；lecomptoirgeneral.com）是个非洲主题的集贸市场兼餐饮场所，适合住在圣马丁运河(Canal St.-Martin)附近、喜好自由BOBO族家庭。每天上午11点开市，周末有小型的跳蚤市场、古董物件以及最重要的——早午餐。
If you’ve had your fill of restaurant meals, Pink Flamingo Pizza (several locations, pinkflamingopizza.com) will deliver its exotic pizzas to your picnic blanket along the Canal St.-Martin or the Place des Vosges. You stop in, order, get the balloons, then bicycle delivery comes to find you. The Café Suédois inside the Swedish Institute (11, rue Payenne, Third Arrondissement) has freshly made sandwiches and desserts. You can eat in its spacious courtyard or walk to the grass near the playground at the nearby Parc Royale (Rue du Parc Royale, Third Arrondissement; until Sept. 1, the courtyard is closed and the Café Suédois is serving ice cream in the garden, whose entrance is on Rue Elzevir). For an afternoon snack, pick up handmade pastries from Du Pain et des Idées (34, rue Yves Toudic, 10th Arrondissement, dupainetdesidees.com). Its chausson à la pomme fraîche is actually nutritious: it contains half an apple.
如果你已经厌倦了饭店就餐，粉红火烈鸟批萨（Pink Flamingo Pizza; 有好几处分店；pinkflamingopizza.com）会将充满异国风情的批萨饼送到你的野餐毯上，送货范围是圣马丁运河沿线或孚日广场(Place des Vosges)周边。你在广场路过、订餐、领取气球，然后骑自行车的送餐员会自己找到你。瑞典学院（Swedish Institute; 11, rue Payenne, 第三区）内设的瑞典饭店(Café Suédois)有新鲜烹制的三明治和甜点。你可以在宽敞的院子里就餐，也可以走到附近的草地上，靠近皇家公园（Rue du Parc Royale, 第三区; 9月1日前处于关闭状态，瑞典饭店在花园中供应冰淇淋，饭店的入口在Rue Elzevir路）的游乐场。下午的点心，请到Du Pain et des Idées面包坊（34, rue Yves Toudic, 第十区, dupainetdesidees.com）选择几样手工糕饼。它家的新鲜苹果派营养丰富，里面足足用了半个苹果。
If you want jet-lagged little diners to eat dinner before 7 p.m., cafes are usually the only option. Near the Bastille, Café de l’Industrie (16, rue St.-Sabin, 11th Arrondissement) is a decent choice; its two locations are across the street from each other. And while you will no doubt want to eat lots of French food, it’s just as authentically Parisian to go ethnic. The Marché des Enfants Rouges (39, rue de Bretagne, Third Arrondissement), which claims to be Paris’s oldest market, has food stalls serving delicious Japanese, Lebanese and North African fare. The market is mobbed on weekends, but you’ll often have the run of the place around 6 p.m. on weekdays (it’s closed Mondays). On Sundays, when the city gets sleepy, head to the rowdy Rue des Rosiers in the Marais for falafel.
如果你想让正在倒时差的孩子们在晚上7点之前吃饭，小咖啡馆通常是唯一的选择。在巴士底狱附近，工业咖啡馆（Café de l’Industrie; 16, rue St.-Sabin, 第11区）是个不错的选择；它的两个分店分列在一条街的两侧。你肯定迫不及待地想要品尝许多法国美食；这家饭店有非常正宗的巴黎菜，是品尝本地特色的好去处。红孩子市场（Marché des Enfants Rouges; 39, rue de Bretagne，第三区）号称巴黎最古老的市场，里面的食品摊档供应美味的日本、黎巴嫩和北非食物。周末时市场非常拥挤，但在平时下午6点之前，你可以在市场内尽情徜徉（周一不营业）。每逢周日，整个城市都懒散昏睡的时候，请到热闹的马莱区(Marais)买中东色拉三明治。
One general tip: To economize at restaurants, order “une carafe d’eau” — a carafe of tap water, which is fine to drink, and free. And note that the tip is always included. If your server has been especially helpful or your children have been especially messy, add another 5 percent.
一个基本贴士：为了最大可能地使用饭店资源，请点一玻璃瓶自来水。这种水可以直接饮用，而且是免费的。另外请注意，饭菜显示的价格已经包括了小费。如果服务员对你帮助特别大，或者孩子给他们添了很多麻烦，可以考虑另付5%的小费。
Recess
休息
If your gang just needs to cool off, try the Piscine Joséphine Baker, a pool that sits on a barge in the Seine (Quai François Mauriac, near Metro stop Quai de la Gare, 13th Arrondissement). There’s a sun deck, a shallow children’s pool (called a pataugeoire), a lap pool for adults, a retractable roof for sunny days, and a generally festive atmosphere. Changing areas and lockers are available. Tickets are 5 euros per person, or about $6.50 at $1.30 to the euro, for the first two hours. Check opening hours carefully: paris.fr/pratique/piscines/piscine-josephine-baker/p6085.
如果你们需要休息，请到Piscine Joséphine Baker浮动游泳池（Quai François Mauriac, near Metro stop Quai de la Gare,第13区）它设在塞纳河的一艘游船上，上面有日光甲板、面积不大的儿童泳池（名叫pataugeoire）、适合成人的浅水池、晴朗天气可以打开的开合式屋顶以及欢乐祥和的空气。也有换衣区和储物柜。最开始的两小时，门票每人5欧元，根据欧元对美元1.30的汇率，相当于6.5美元。营业时间详见：paris.fr/pratique/piscines/piscine-josephine-baker/p6085.
The Tuileries Garden (Place de la Concorde, First Arrondissement) is one of the most kid-friendly spots in Paris, and also one of the most beautiful. While you delight in its symmetry and designer lounge chairs, your children will enjoy the in-ground trampolines, merry-go-round and enormous sculptural playground. Before leaving, walk to the park’s western edge to see the Luxor Obelisk, a 75-foot column (my kids call it the “giant crayon”) that once marked the entrance to the Luxor Temple in Egypt and now stands with an air of mysterious calm at the center of a swirling traffic circle.
杜乐丽花园（Tuileries Garden; Place de la Concorde,第五区）是巴黎最适合儿童游览的地方之一，也是最美丽的景观之一。你们欣赏花园的对称美和设计休闲椅的时候，孩子们可以享受地面蹦床、旋转木马和庞大的雕塑游乐场。离开之前，走到公园最西边去欣赏卢克索方尖碑(Luxor Obelisk)——一根75英尺高的柱子（我家孩子叫它“巨型蜡笔”）。它以前设在埃及卢克索神庙(Luxor Temple)入口，现今却带着一种神秘的镇静屹立于繁忙的交通转盘处。
Your children can mingle with the offspring of the French cognoscenti at the Luxembourg Gardens (Sixth Arrondissement, museeduluxembourg.fr/en/le-musee/jardin), a park that’s appealing to all ages. There’s an excellent enclosed pay-to-play area (with bathrooms), pony rides and toy sailboats in the central basin. The park’s storied puppet theater puts on shows, in French, daily at 4 p.m., and at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. on weekends.
在卢森堡花园（Luxembourg Gardens; 第六区； museeduluxembourg.fr/en/le-musee/jardin），你的孩子可以与法国鉴赏家的后代玩耍，不同年龄的人都能在这个花园找到乐趣。里面有个很棒的付费游乐区（自带卫生间），中央区域比其他区域的地面略低一点，里面可以骑玩具马，还有玩具帆船。公园的木偶剧场每天下午4点以及周末的上午11点和下午4点，有法语的现场演出。
CHEAT SHEET
实用信息
Where to Set Up Base
哪里下榻
Paris is compact and has excellent public transportation, so it’s best to stay in the center where you can easily walk, take the bus or go by Métro to most places (if you have a stroller, buses are best).
巴黎城市格局紧凑，公共交通发达，所以最好住在市中心，那样不管步行、乘坐公交车还是地铁，都能方便地到达大部分地点（如果你带有婴儿车的话，公共汽车是最佳选择）。
Renting an apartment is more of a hassle but generally cheaper and cozier than a hotel. Myboutiquehotel.com lets you choose hotels by neighborhood; I’m partial to the Marais, Opéra and St.-Germain-des-Prés: myboutiquehotel.com/en/boutique-hotels-paris.
租赁公寓虽然有些麻烦，但整体来说价格比酒店便宜，而且更加舒适。Myboutiquehotel.com网站让你可以按照社区来搜索酒店；我个人最喜欢马莱区、巴黎歌剧院和圣日耳曼德佩教堂(St.-Germain-des-Prés)一带：myboutiquehotel.com/en/boutique-hotels-paris.
How to Feed Picky Eaters
如何满足对吃喝很挑剔的人
Cafes serve basic sandwiches, plain omelets, chicken dishes or croque-monsieurs, essentially grilled cheese with ham. Increasingly, children’s menus are available in some cafes and restaurants, usually with hamburgers (sometimes called steak haché), fries and dessert. In a pinch, McDonald’s is never far away.
小咖啡馆供应最基本的三明治、普通煎蛋饼、鸡肉、法式火腿三明治(croque-monsieur)。但越来越多的小咖啡馆和饭店开始提供儿童菜单，一般都有汉堡包（有时候叫做牛排碎饼 [steak haché])、薯条和甜点。实在没办法到时候，就去随处可见的麦当劳。
Where to Go for a Pit Stop
哪里休息
There are small parks and squares throughout the city, many of which have shaded playgrounds ringed by benches. Most major monuments are ringed by green spaces, too. When morale really starts to ebb, remember these two words: ice cream (in French it’s just one word, glace).
城市里到处都是小公园和广场，许多都设有树荫之下由长椅围起来的游乐场。绝大多数景点周围也都有绿地。当你们精力不足时，记住一个单词：冰淇淋（这个单词的法语说法是glace）。
Where to Find a Potty
到哪里上厕所
The nearly 400 futuristic-looking silver kiosks plunked on Parisian sidewalks are actually free, self-cleaning public toilets, or Sanisettes (children shouldn’t go into these alone). Many parks have bathrooms, too; best to carry a pack of tissues for such occasions. Cafes have restrooms for customers, though saying “Bonjour” while clutching a desperate child will often suffice (otherwise buy an espresso at the bar for about $1.50). Department stores have restrooms, though a flashy new one on the mezzanine floor of Printemps now charges for the privilege, and tries to upsell you with designer toilet paper.
最近空降到巴黎街边的近400座未来主义风格的银色小亭子，其实都是自动清洁的免费公共厕所，它们的专名叫Sanisette（儿童不能独立入内）。许多公园都有卫生间，但旅行最少自带一盒卫生纸，以备不时之需。小餐馆的卫生间一般只供在那里就餐的顾客使用，但在走投无路的时候你揪着一个儿童对工作人员说句“Bonjour”，通常也能获得许可（实在不行，就在吧台花1.5美元买杯浓缩咖啡）。百货公司有卫生间，但巴黎春天百货设在跃层的华丽卫生间最近开始收费，并企图向你兜售设计版卫生纸。
Which Must-Sees to Miss
哪些热门景点可以忽略
You could spend half a day getting to the top of the Eiffel Tower, or you could just admire it from afar. Ditto with the Louvre, especially with small children. Instead, walk past the museum’s glass pyramids and into the Tuileries, where you can lounge on the grass and teach them French vocabulary words like flâneur (a wanderer and “passionate observer” of Paris).
你可以花费半天的时间爬到埃菲尔铁塔的顶端，或者只从远处进行瞻仰。卢浮宫也一样，尤其是与幼童一起旅行的时候。相反，请路过博物馆的玻璃金字塔而不入，直接去看杜伊勒里宫(Tuileries)。在那里，你们可以在草地上休息，顺便教孩子几个法语单词，比如flâneur（意思是巴黎漫游者兼充满激情的观察者）。