A room with a view, especially a park view, ranks high on the wish lists of many apartment hunters.
景观房，尤其是能看见公园景色的房子，对许多找房者来说都是心愿单上的首选。
But the buildings that ring Central Park and other popular stretches of green around town are often among the costliest in the city. An aerie over Central Park at the Time Warner Center, for instance, is currently listed at $68 million.
然而，中央公园(Central Park)等市区热门绿地附近的楼盘，也往往是市内最贵的。比如时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)有一套俯瞰中央公园的高层住宅，目前的挂牌价是6800万美元（约合人民币4.2亿元）。
A discount in a nature-nuzzling building, though, doesn’t have to mean getting stuck with a window on an air shaft. Indeed, genuine park views can be had for far less than eight-figure price tags.
只不过，要想在亲近自然的楼盘里得到一套便宜的房源，并不一定只能找到窗户开在通风井上的低层户型。是真的，实实在在的园景，以远低于八位数的价格也可以拥有。
In a recent search of online listings for apartments with park views in Manhattan and Brooklyn, more than a few could be found for around $1 million or less, quite affordable relative to their exorbitantly expensive neighbors. So a feature generally associated with the fanciest homes may actually be within reach of average buyers, even if that view may require a little neck-craning from a terrace — often described by brokers as a “partial view.”
最近在网上搜索曼哈顿和布鲁克林的园景公寓，可以找到不少价位在100万美元（约合人民币612万元）以内的房源。相对于价格高得离谱的周边房源，它们已经是非常廉价的了。也就是说，一般只和超高档住宅挂钩的观景条件，或许普通家庭也能负担得起；只不过在那样的观景房里，你或许得把脖子从露台上伸出去一点，才能看到美景——经纪人往往把这种情况称为“局部观景”。
All it takes is a little leg work to determine whether a listing really has the advertised amenity — and some persistence. And while searching for such a view, pushing boundaries to find buildings beyond the prime spots around a park and opting for apartments on lower floors can also produce good results.
而你所需要做的，就是跑跑腿，看看某个挂牌房源是不是真的有它所宣传的配套设施——而且还没被抢走。在寻找这类园景房的过程中，如果不局限于公园周边最好的地段，而是把搜寻范围扩大一点，再选择稍低一点的楼层，或许也能得到好的结果。
Park bargains can seem like even more of a deal when weighed against the average third-quarter sales price in Manhattan, which was $1.69 million, according to a report from Douglas Elliman, the real estate brokerage. And most of the apartments that sold in those months did not feature views of maple trees or meandering park paths.
如果同第三季度曼哈顿房源的平均售价作比较，那么价位较低的园景房甚至会显得更划算。根据房产经纪公司格拉斯·艾丽曼(Douglas Elliman)的一份报告，第三季度曼哈顿房源的平均售价是169万美元（约合人民币1034万元）。而那几个月里售出的多数公寓，并不是以枫树或蜿蜒曲折的公园小径景观为卖点的。
“You can get a piece of the park without breaking the bank,” said Jon Phillips, an agent with Brown Harris Stevens, who has a one-bedroom listing on Madison Square Park that is the least expensive park-view apartment for sale there, at $1.1 million.
“你不需要掏空积蓄，也可以坐拥一部分公园景观。”Brown Harris Stevens房地产公司的经纪人乔·菲利普斯(Jon Phillips)说。他手里有套一居室房源位于麦迪逊广场公园(Madison Square Park)，是那一带最便宜的待售园景公寓，挂牌价110万美元（约合人民币673万元）。
Nodding to that listing, which overlooks terra-cotta faces on the Flatiron Building, Mr. Phillips added, “you might even get a superior vantage point.”
菲利普斯点头示意了一下那套挂牌房源的位置，从那里可以俯瞰熨斗大厦(Flatiron Building)上的赤陶头像。菲利普斯还说，“说不定你还能得到一个挺不错的观景角度。”
McCarren Park
麦克凯伦公园(McCarren Park)
The area around this rambling 36-acre spread on the Williamsburg/Greenpoint line in Brooklyn has added many residential buildings in recent years — glassy, colorful high-rises that gleam amid vinyl-sided rowhouses — as its surrounding neighborhood has blossomed.
在布鲁克林的威廉斯堡/绿点区(Williamsburg/Greenpoint)一带，这片草木葱茏、占地36英亩（约合15公顷）的公园周围，近年来新建了许多住宅楼，周边小区都得以蓬勃发展。玻璃幕墙的彩色高层大厦，闪耀在饰有乙烯树脂壁板的联排住宅当中。
Most of the construction in this corner has been of rentals, but for-sale properties do exist. Seven were available in a recent search using StreetEasy.com, with each listing double-checked to make sure it actually had some kind of park “vu” and was not just located near a park.
这一带的多数建筑都是出租房，但也有待售的房产。最近一次用StreetEasy.com搜索的结果显示，这样的房源有七套。每套挂牌房源都经过了仔细检查，以确认其的确是有公园景观的住房，而不只是位于一座公园的附近。
The median list price for these was $979,000, which could buy a two-bedroom, one-bath unit in a Driggs Avenue condo building called Manhattan Park.
这几套房源的挂牌价中值为97.9万美元（约合人民币599万元），这个价位可以在德格斯大道(Driggs Avenue)上的一栋共管公寓楼——曼哈顿公园(Manhattan Park)内，买到一套两室一卫的公寓单元。
But the least expensive was a 460-square-foot studio in a blue-paneled condo at 415 Leonard Street built in 2008, with a washer and dryer, central air conditioning and a balcony, listed at $525,000, though a buyer had been found after just a few weeks of its going on the market.
但其中最便宜的，是一套460平方英尺（约合43平方米）的单间公寓(studio)，位于伦纳德街(Leonard Street)415号，其所在楼盘是一栋铺了蓝色壁板的共管公寓楼，建于2008年。公寓配备了洗碗及烘干机、中央空调和一座阳台，挂牌价52.5万美元（约合人民币321万元）。不过，这套房源才上市几周就找到了买主。
The next apartment on the list, though, is still well below the median, at $799,000: a one-bedroom, one-bath condo at 20 Bayard Street, whose 660 square feet includes built-in bookshelves, hanging light fixtures and custom-built sliding doors.
下一套公寓的价位依然远远低于中值，其挂牌价为79.9万美元（约合人民币489万元）。该房源为一室一卫的共管公寓，位于贝亚德街(Bayard Street)20号，面积660平方英尺（约合61平方米），屋内配备了嵌入式书架、吊挂灯具和定制的滑门。
“But I think the biggest selling point is the unobstructed views,” said Kevin Cargon, the agent with Nest Seekers International marketing the unit, as he pointed to nearly seven-foot windows. “In Brooklyn and Queens, it’s very rare not to look out on a brick wall or another building.”
“但我觉得，最大的卖点还是一览无遗的景观，”Nest Seekers International房地产公司负责该公寓营销的经纪人凯文·卡尔贡(Kevin Cargon)说，他指了指将近7英尺（约合2米）高的窗户。“在布鲁克林和皇后区(Queens)，你从屋里向外看，很少能像这样不被砖墙或其它建筑物挡住视线。”
Revealing a swirl of trees and fields, and in the distance, the spire of the Empire State Building, those views command a 20 percent premium compared with other units in the building that do not face the park, Mr. Cargon added.
卡尔贡还说，由于这里可以看到绵延的树木和绿地、乃至远处帝国大厦(Empire State Building)的尖塔，这些景观使这套房子与同一栋楼里其它背对公园的单元相比，产生了20%的溢价。
Noise, though, can be a concern around some parks. That was especially true when McCarren Park was hosting boisterous outdoor concerts at a swimming pool down the block, which has since reverted back to its intended function. This section of the park, lined with a red track, is popular throughout the day with those looking to crack a sweat. But the tall, bright lights that allow for jogging at night are turned off around 11 p.m., Mr. Cargon said.
不过，在有些公园周边，噪音可能会成为令人担忧的问题。当麦克凯伦公园在靠近街区的泳池边举办热闹的露天演唱会时，情况尤其如此。后来，泳池恢复了原本的用途（麦克凯伦公园的泳池于1984年关闭，后来一直废弃，2005年用于举办露天演唱会，2012年经修缮后恢复使用——译注）。公园的这片区域还铺设了一条塑胶跑道，成天人气火爆，聚集了许多汗流浃背的锻炼者。不过，据卡尔贡说，晚上为长跑爱好者照明的高杆亮灯在11点左右就会关闭。
To ensure that this unit, which is on the fourth floor of an 18-story building — the first floor with apartments — does not become too much of a fishbowl in the evening, the lower panels of the bedroom’s window are frosted, so people cannot easily see in. Apartments on higher floors that are farther away from the action on the street and in the park would be pricier, Mr. Cargon said, adding that every floor up at 20 Bayard is equal to an extra $30,000 in price.
整个楼盘共有18层，从四层往上都是公寓。而这个单元就位于第四层。为避免其室内情况在晚间过度暴露于他人的视线里，卧室窗口靠下的玻璃换成了毛玻璃，这样外面的人就不能轻易看到里面了。卡尔贡说，虽然较高楼层的公寓相对不容易受到街边和公园里噪声的干扰，但是价格也更高；在贝亚德街20号的楼内，每增加一个楼层，房价就会上涨3万美元（约合人民币18万元）。
Central Park
中央公园
A parkside location, as desirable as it might be, doesn’t always guarantee panoramas. Even some apartments in upscale co-ops like the Dakota, on Central Park West at West 72nd Street, have no views of park trees.
公园旁的地段虽然可能令人心驰神往，但并不保证一定可以观看到景致。就算是在达科塔大楼(Dakota)这类高档合作公寓楼里，有些公寓也不具备观赏公园树林的条件。达科塔大楼位于中央公园西路和西72街的交汇处。
And then there’s Park West Village, an austere red brick complex between West 97th and West 100th Streets that does offer park views, despite many of the homes in its four condo buildings being set back far from the park’s edge.
而在西97至100街间的一片朴实的红砖建筑群——公园西村(Park West Village)，却可以欣赏到园景，虽然在那四栋共管公寓楼里，也还有许多缩进的住宅离公园边缘很远。
Put up in the late 1950s and early 1960s as part of a slum-clearance project by the master planner Robert Moses, Park West benefits from its campuslike property on which parking lots function to keep sight lines open.
公园西村建于20世纪50年代末、60年代初，隶属于一个由大师级规划师罗伯特·摩西(Robert Moses)提出的、扫除贫民窟的项目。该楼盘得益于其形同校园的布局，在这里，停车场的作用是让视野保持开阔。
For those willing to venture to the complex at the park’s northwestern edge, an alcove studio at 392 Central Park West, with wood floors, three closets and about 600 square feet, was the park’s least expensive, at $650,000. It went into contract last week after less than a month on the market. A half-block from the park, the building, which is entered from West 100th Street, still offers a sea of treetops from many of its apartments.
如果有意尝试在中央公园西北角这片建筑群中买房，那么可考虑中央公园西392号的一套L形单间公寓。公寓内铺设了木地板，配备了三个衣橱，面积大约为600平方英尺（约合56平方米），是该楼盘里最便宜的房源，价格在65万美元（约合人民币398万元）。该房源上市不到一个月，就在上周成交了。其所在的公寓楼距离公园半个街区，大楼可从西100街进入，你在其中许多公寓里，依然可以欣赏到郁郁葱葱的树冠景观。
And the studio is no exception; while the bath and kitchen may be windowless, a large picture version makes up the northern wall, situated by the bed.
这套单间公寓也不例外。虽然可能浴室和厨房没有窗户，但北墙上的一扇大窗就在床边，可以看到如画的景观。
To put the price in perspective, the 85 apartments for sale recently on Central Park — one of the city’s most coveted addresses — had a median price of $4.4 million, which was for a two-bedroom co-op at the Sherry-Netherland, a residential hotel diagonally across from the Plaza Hotel.
下面列出一些数据，让大家对房价有个全局的概念。中央公园是纽约市最热门的地段之一。这里最近待售的85套公寓，房价中值为440万美元（约合人民币2692万元），这个价位可以在荷兰雪梨酒店(Sherry-Netherland)里购买一套两居室的合作公寓。该酒店位于广场酒店(the Plaza Hotel)的斜对面，是一座公寓式酒店。
Few, though, would confuse the bustling, architecturally varied blocks around that building with those around Park West Village, which is across the street from the Frederick Douglass Houses, a 17-building public housing project, and next to Columbus Square, a modern-day five-building luxury rental complex, where studios start at $3,215 a month.
不过很少有人会将那栋建筑周围的街区，和公园西村周边的街区相混淆。前者熙熙攘攘，建筑风格多样；而公园西村的对面，是一个包含17栋楼的公共住房项目——弗雷德里克·道格拉斯住宅(Frederick Douglass Houses)；而在旁边的哥伦布广场(Columbus Square)这个包含五栋楼的奢华出租公寓建筑群，单间公寓的租金起价是每月3215美元（约合人民币19671元）。
Still, said Antonia Watson, the Keller Williams Realty agent who listed the studio, “to be this close to the park at these prices is an amazing opportunity,” she said. “Everybody who comes to see it comments on that.”
尽管如此，为公园西村那套单间公寓发布挂牌信息的经纪人、Keller Williams Realty房地产公司的安东尼娅·沃森(Antonia Watson)说，“在离公园这么近的地方能买到这个价位的房子，可以说是个绝佳的机会，”她说，“每个来看房的人都是这么说的。”
Madison Square Park
麦迪逊广场公园(Madison Square Park)
A lack of listings around a park might be because there were never a lot of homes there to begin with, like at Madison Square, which for more than a century was largely a commercial area.
一座公园周边的挂牌房源寥寥，或许是因为那一带一开始就没什么住宅。麦迪逊广场就是这种情况。一个世纪以来，这里从很大程度上讲，一直是个商业区。
After all, it probably wasn’t a draw to live next to Madison Square Garden, which had two successive homes on East 26th Street built in the late 1800s. Later, insurance and toy-making districts sprung up. Then, until the 1990s, neighbors say, the park was somewhat threadbare and a hotbed for drug-dealing.
毕竟，住在麦迪逊广场公园旁边可能并不是什么吸引人的条件。在19世纪最初十年的后期，这里曾经先后建起两栋大楼，位于东26街。后来，保险业和玩具制造业街区蔚然兴起。接着，据当地居民说，到20世纪90年代时，这座公园已经变得有些满目疮痍，成了毒品交易的温床。
But fueled by investment from landlords and businesses, the park has glamorously revived in recent years, adding new lawns, sculptures and the first outpost of the trendy burger chain Shake Shack. Developers, naturally, followed, with office-to-condo conversions.
不过近年来，由于受到业主和企业投资的提振，这座公园的面貌大为改观，新增了草坪和雕塑，时尚汉堡连锁店Shake Shack还首次在这里开设了分店。开发商自然闻风而至，将写字楼改建成共管公寓。
Nine apartments were on the market there recently, at a median of $12 million. Some were tucked in historic edifices along the park’s northern edge, like the Whitman, at 21 East 26th Street, where the duplex penthouse was $22.3 million. On the other hand, One Madison at 23 East 22nd Street, a rare contemporary high-rise, was offering a duplex spanning its 55th and 56th floors for $37.5 million. And the media mogul Rupert Murdoch recently acquired the 6,850-square-foot triplex penthouse at the top of that sliver tower for $43 million.
最近，这一带有九套公寓待售，房价中值为1200万美元（约合人民币7342万元）。它们有的坐落在公园北界恢弘的历史建筑中，比如东26街21号惠特曼大厦(Whitman)里的复式顶层公寓，价格是2230万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元）。另一方面，在东22街23号的麦迪逊一号(One Madison)这栋气派的当代高层建筑内，55至56层的一套复式住宅，要价是3750万美元（约合人民币2.3亿元）。传媒大鳄鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)最近也以4300万美元（约合人民币2.6亿元）的价格，在那栋细长的大楼里买下了6850平方英尺（约合636平方米）的三层顶层公寓。
The least expensive? A one-bedroom condo at 5 East 22nd Street, in a 1980s doorman building called Madison Green. The eighth-floor unit was listed by Mr. Phillips of Brown Harris Stevens for $1.1 million.
这一带最便宜的房源呢？是位于东22街5号的一套一居室共管公寓，其所在楼盘名为麦迪逊绿地(Madison Green)，建于20世纪80年代，设有门卫。该房源位于八层，挂牌信息的发布者是Brown Harris Stevens的菲利普斯，挂牌价110万美元（约合人民币673万元）。
Madison Square cannot be savored from the angled living room; the unit is oriented west, toward the Flatiron Building. But a 60-square-foot terrace does allow a peek at the park to the north, and more.
这个单元朝西，面向熨斗大厦，从多边形客厅里无法欣赏到麦迪逊广场的景观。不过，从其60平方英尺（约合5.6平方米）的露台上倒是可以俯瞰北面的公园、乃至更多景观。
In recent years, the closing of lanes of Broadway, to turn them into places to sit and hang out, has effectively allowed the park to spill over into the street. Below the terrace, in a frenzy of activity, bikes whooshed, cars honked, and what sounded like a marching band added a beat.
近年来，百老汇的街道封路，转变成供人坐下来休息、游玩的场所。因此，麦迪逊广场公园实际就被延伸到了街面上。露台下的街道热闹非凡，车声响成一片，其中夹杂着某种乐声，像是行进乐队的演奏声，为车声增添了节奏。
Mr. Phillips, who in the early 1980s worked in the MetLife clock tower, which is being transformed into a hotel, says the signs of life are welcome: “Madison Square should have developed into something really big for 150 years.”
菲利普斯在20世纪80年代初曾在大都会人寿保险(MetLife)的钟楼工作，那里现在正被改建成酒店。他说，这种生活气息是人们喜闻乐见的：“麦迪逊广场早就应该发展成为超大规模、能存续150年的社区才对。”
Prospect Park
展望公园(Prospect Park)
“Everyone who has walked in has gone right to those windows,” said Tim Rettaliata, an agent with the Corcoran Group, about the living room at 92 Prospect Park West, a Beaux-Arts co-op in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
“所有来看房的人，一进门就直奔那些窗户去了。”柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的经纪人蒂姆·雷塔利亚塔(Tim Rettaliata)提到展望公园西路(Prospect Park West)92号的客厅时说。该楼盘位于布鲁克林的公园坡(Park Slope)，是一栋布杂艺术风格的合作公寓楼。
The appeal seems obvious. At four stories, the building is the right height for the apartment to feel nestled in the trees, and not perched so far up that the park might resemble a map.
它的魅力似乎显而易见。该楼盘共有四层，高度正好可以让公寓显得树木环抱；同时又不至于太高，以至于俯瞰公园感觉就像在看地图。
But if nature isn’t enough, the tree-line sash windows in this third-floor unit also neatly frame Litchfield Villa, a well-kept Italianate former mansion designed by Alexander Jackson Davis and located on a hill inside the walls of the park, which it predates. A playground is nearby.
但如果说，光有自然美景还不够，那么这个位于三层的单元还有一大看点：其树木掩映下的窗框，巧妙地框住了利奇菲尔德别墅(Litchfield Villa)的远景。那是一座保存完好的意式建筑，曾经是座豪宅，由亚历山大·杰克逊·戴维斯(Alexander Jackson Davis)设计，坐落在一座小山上，位于公园围墙之内。该建筑是先于公园的围墙修建起来的。附近还有个活动场。
The elegant one-bedroom unit offers molding, dark-stained floors and granite counters, as well as a dining room fashioned from a foyer, in a circa 1900 brick-and-limestone walk-up. Listed at $650,000, the unit received five offers after a mere week of being on the market, and by early this month, a contract had been signed. The listing was actually the second cheapest. The first, a studio with a sunken living room at 25 Plaza Street West, was $375,000, but views of the main expanse of Prospect Park are not front and center. Instead, the apartment directly takes in Grand Army Plaza, which despite being counted among the park’s 526 acres, is more a traffic circle than a place to picnic. However, Grand Army Plaza’s scattered greenery may be eye candy enough for those on the hunt for a deal.
这套优雅的一居室公寓，带有装饰线脚、染成深色的地板、花岗岩材质的柜台，以及一间由门厅改造成的餐厅。其所在楼盘大约建于1900年，由砖石和石灰石砌成，没有电梯。这个单元的挂牌价是65万美元（约合人民币398万元），才上市一周就收到了五份报价；这个月早些时候，买卖双方签订了合约。实际上，这套挂牌房源还不是最便宜的，最便宜的是一套带一间凹式客厅的单间公寓，位于广场街西路(Plaza Street West)25号，挂牌价37.5万美元（约合人民币229万元）。但是在这里，目之所及的广阔园景并非展望公园的正面和中心。相反，这套公寓却可将大军团广场(Grand Army Plaza)尽收眼底。大军团广场虽然算在展望公园526英亩（约合213公顷）的范围内，但更像是一个环形的交通枢纽，而非去野餐的地方。不过，大军团广场星星点点的绿色植物对于寻求购房交易的人来说，可能已经足够吸引眼球了。
Both of these listings stack up well. In total, there were 13 with views of Prospect Park, which has co-ops and condos on its northern and western flanks, but mostly rentals elsewhere. The median price, $975,000, was for a two-bedroom, two-bath postwar co-op at 10 Plaza Street East.
这两套房源都很抢手。总共有13套待售房源，可以看到展望公园的景观；展望公园的北侧和西侧也建有合作公寓和共管公寓，但是其它地方多是出租类房源，房价中值为97.5万美元（约合人民币597万元）。这个价位可以在广场街东路(Plaza Street East)10号，买到一套战前风格的两室两卫合作公寓。
And Mr. Rettaliata and a business partner, Jessica Buchman, could also lay claim to the priciest property: 9 Prospect Park West, a four-bedroom co-op whose corner berth, and bird-worthy elevation — on the 10th floor of a 15-story building — provides a lot to look at.
雷塔利亚塔和他的商业伙伴杰西卡·布克曼(Jessica Buchman)还推荐了最贵的房产：展望公园西路9号，一套四居室的合作公寓。它位于大楼转角，楼层也处于鸟瞰风景的高度——整栋楼一共15层，这套公寓在第10层，可以欣赏无限的风光。
“It’s pretty dramatic, because the buildings aren’t that high around it,” Mr. Rettaliata said. “You can appreciate how massive the park is.” Then again, that view is listed at $3.7 million.
“这里的景观很壮观，因为周围的楼房都不高，”雷塔利亚塔说，“你可以饱览广阔的公园景色。”不过话又说回来，这样的园景，挂牌价是370万美元（约合人民币2264万元）。
Morningside Park
晨边公园(Morningside Park)
Considering the many children on swings and climbing structures in public parks today, it can be hard to believe some parks were considered so dangerous for many years that people would walk blocks out of their way to avoid them.
如今的公园里，到处都是荡秋千和爬墙的孩子。在这种情况下，很难想象有些公园多年来一直被视为危险的地方，以至于人们宁愿多绕几个街区的路，也要避开它们。
And this 30-acre version, which runs from West 110th to West 123rd Street, and from Morningside Drive to Morningside Avenue, was one of the most crime-ridden, according to historical accounts from as early as the 1930s.
晨边公园占地30英亩（约合12公顷），地跨西110至123街、晨边快速路(Morningside Drive)到晨边大道(Morningside Avenue)的范围。根据最早可追溯到20世纪30年代的历史记载，这里是犯罪活动最猖獗的地方之一。
Battles of other sorts were waged here, too. Harlem residents fought nearby Columbia University over plans to build a new gym by a rocky hill in the 1960s, which got as far as an excavation before protests stopped it.
其他形式的斗争也在这里打响过。20世纪60年代，哈莱姆区(Harlem)的居民曾经抵制附近的哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)在一座多岩石的山上修建新体育馆的计划。这个已经破土动工的项目在抗议声浪中停工了。
But few noticeable traces of those bad old days remain today. Concerned neighbors rehabilitated the park, which has playful statues, grand staircases and a waterfall-fed pond, on the site of that defeated gym project.
不过，现在这里已经很少留有黑暗的往昔岁月痕迹了。热心的当地居民修缮了公园，在当年停建体育馆的地方修建了有趣的雕像、壮观的楼梯和一座带瀑布的池塘。
For-sale apartments are still scarce; there were just three on the market recently, at a median price of $2.3 million for a three-bedroom condo at One Morningside Park, a new development at 321 West 110th Street.
待售的公寓依然稀缺；最近市场上只有三套，中值为230万美元（约合人民币1407万元）。这个价位，可以在西110街321号的新开发项目——晨边公园一号(One Morningside Park)，买到一套三居室共管公寓。
The least expensive was a two-bedroom, two-bath unit at 371 West 117th Street, a 25-unit prewar condo conversion, priced at $839,000.
那里最便宜的是一套两室两卫单元，位于西117街371号，价格是83.9万美元（约合人民币513万元）。371号这处楼盘共包含25个单元，是一栋经改建的战前风格公寓楼。
In the unit, some windows face air shafts. The front ones, though, look out over Morningside Avenue toward the park’s edge, and while the windows are at ground level, car noise has been dramatically reduced by a recent redesign of the street, said Francesca Segreti, its Halstead Property listing agent. “It’s really quiet, like it is now,” she said on a recent afternoon, with every window open.
在这个单元里，有些窗户面对着通风井。不过，从正面的窗户可以越过晨边大道、看到公园的边缘。虽然窗户在一楼，但据哈尔斯特德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的经纪人弗朗西斯卡·赛格雷蒂(Francesca Segreti)说，由于最近街道进行了重新设计，汽车的噪音已有显著降低。赛格雷蒂是发布该房源挂牌信息的经纪人。“这里真的很安静，就像现在这样。”最近的一个下午，屋里所有窗户都打开时她说。