Are you happy?
你幸福吗？
It’s a question we might ask ourselves here and there when something great (or awful) happens to us. But think about it in a general sense: When was the last time you evaluated your overall happiness and satisfaction with life?
当我们遇上什么开心事（或伤心事）的时候，我们会时不时地问自己这个问题。但从大的方向想想：你上一次评估自己总体上对生活的快乐和满意程度，是什么时候？
There are so many factors to consider when answering that question that it can feel overwhelming or, even worse, become yet another stressor weighing on your happiness. But it’s a topic that’s ripe for introspection, so we’ve put together the official New York Times guide on how to be happy. In it you’ll find guidance ranging from tips for conquering negative thinking to assessing the effect of marriage on your happiness.
要回答这个问题，有太多的因素需要考虑，或许会让人感到喘不过气，或更糟糕——变成阻碍幸福的又一个压力源。但这是一个适合拿来反思的话题。因此，我们总结出了《纽约时报》官方幸福指南。在此，不论你是想得到如何克服消极想法的小建议，还是想评估婚姻对你的幸福有何影响，都能找到指导。
But today we’re going to focus on the four things you can do right now(ish) to improve your happiness. Because you deserve it, friends.
但我们今天的重点在你（大概）现在就能做的四件可以提高幸福感的事。因为，朋友们，你们受之无愧。
Conquer your negative thinking
攻克消极想法
Humans have evolved to focus on the negative. If we overlearn a bad situation, we’re more inclined to avoid those situations in the future or react more quickly, writes Tara Parker-Pope in our happiness guide.
人类在演化中形成了对负面的关注。如果我们对一个糟糕的情况进行了过度学习，那么以后会更倾向于避开这类情况，或是更快地作出反应，塔拉·帕克-波普(Tara Parker-Pope)在我们的幸福指南中这样写道。
But, as we all know, that isn’t always helpful in a modern world. When something bad happens, we tend to overanalyze and have trouble getting our mind off it.
但正如我们所知，在现代社会，这样做并不总是好的。当坏事发生时，我们往往过度分析，很难不去想它。
The trick to avoiding those spirals and rabbit holes of misery is to acknowledge and challenge our negative thoughts. Rather than try to bury them, we should own those thoughts and ask ourselves a few questions, like, “What is the evidence for this thought?” or “Am I basing this on facts or on feelings?” A little self-investigation can help us get over the thoughts that just won’t leave our heads otherwise.
要避开这些让人不断下落、痛苦难过的“兔子洞”，窍门在于去认识并挑战我们的消极思想。与其将其埋藏，我们更应掌控这些念头，问自己一些问题，比如，“这个想法的证据在哪？”或“我是凭事实说话，还是光凭感情？”一些自我审查可以帮助我们克服这些想法，否则它们也不会自己消散。
Forgive yourself
原谅自己
This one is really simple: Go easy on yourself. If you’re compassionate and supportive of other people, why shouldn’t you give yourself the same luxury?
这一点非常好办：对自己好一些。如果你能对他人怀有同理心，能给予他人支持，为什么不给自己同等的待遇呢？
This can be a difficult concept for those of us who tend to beat ourselves up over perceived failures, so our guide has an exercise you can use to practice. Write yourself a letter of compassion just as you would to a neighbor or friend who had experienced a hardship. The concept is the same, only the recipient is you.
这个概念，对我们这样喜欢在面对失败时对自己狠一些的人来说，或许有些难以理解。因此，我们的指南里有一个可以用来练习的活动。给自己写一封宽慰信吧，就像你会给一位经历困难的邻居或朋友写的那样。主旨是一样的，只不过收信人是你自己。
Money helps, but only to a point
钱，有用，但作用有限
An often-cited study from a few years ago boldly named the amount of money at which happiness peaks: $75,000 per year. Another recent (but less rigorous) examination put that number at $100 million. Still another study said lottery winners are no happier than the rest of us.
几年前一个常被引用的研究大胆地提出了能使幸福感到达巅峰的金额：75000美元/年。最近又有一项（没那么严格的）调查把这个数字推到了1亿美元。还有一项研究指出，中了大奖的人并不比普通人更幸福。
Mmm … what?
呃……什么？
The truth is, we’re plagued by the constant craving for the next thing. Tara calls this the “hedonic treadmill” in the happiness guide and, essentially, we’re stuck on it.
事实是，我们为心心念念的“下一个”东西所困。在幸福指南里，塔拉称其为“快乐跑步机”。可以说，我们正被困在这座跑步机之上。
A more helpful way to look at this idea is to find purpose and meaning at work. Rather than focusing on work as a means to earn money, try to find genuine satisfaction and purpose in the work you do. Studies have shown this is possible in every type of job.
去找到工作的目的和意义是一个比较有用的方法。与其只把工作看做挣钱的途径，不妨试着在工作中找到真正的满足和目标。研究表明，这一点在各个类型的工作中都可以做到。
Buy more time
买回更多的时间
If given the choice between buying material things and buying services that save you time, you might want to think about the timesavers.
如果让你在买更多物质上的东西和买能节省时间的服务之间选择，你或许可以考虑能节省时间的。
In two surveys cited in our guide to happiness, researchers found that people who spent money on conveniences like ordering takeout for dinner or getting a cab were happier than those who didn’t.
在幸福指南引用的两个调查中，研究人员发现，把钱花在便利服务上的人——比如晚餐会定外卖、会打车的人，比不这么做的人更幸福。
So what does that mean for you? If you can afford it, buy yourself some extra time. (Yes, this is permission to order a pizza for dinner tonight.)
那么，这对你来说意味着什么呢？如果负担得起，给自己买回更多的时间吧。（是的，意思就是你今晚可以点披萨吃了。）
What’s your key to happiness? Do you have any tricks for staying positive? I want to hear ’em!
你的幸福秘诀是什么？你有没有保持积极的小窍门？我都想知道！
Have a great week!
祝你一周愉快！
—Tim
提姆