Andrea Chermayeff planned to go back to work when the youngest of her four children enrolled in school last fall. With a Harvard M.B.A. and experience at a private equity firm, she had the credentials to return to Wall Street. The only problem was explaining a 15-year gap on her résumé.
当安德里亚·切尔马耶夫(Andrea Chermayeff)四个孩子中最小的一个在去年秋天入学后，她打算回归职场。作为哈佛大学(Harvard)的工商管理硕士(MBA)，有着私募股权公司工作经验的她完全有条件重返华尔街。唯一的问题是怎样解释她简历上长达15年的工作空档。
To help get started, Ms. Chermayeff attended a program at Harvard Business School for professional women looking to return to work after taking a career break. She picked up tips on how to prepare a résumé and handle interview questions about her absence. But the big break in her job search came while sitting next to another mother at her son’s baseball game near her home in Rowayton, Conn.
为了起步，切尔马耶夫参加了哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)针对职业中断后想要重返职场的职业女性而设计的项目。她学到了一些准备简历和回答面试中有关职业空白期问题的技巧。但直到在她家附近观看儿子棒球比赛，遇到邻座一位也来看儿子比赛的母亲时，她的求职进程才有了重大突破。切尔马耶夫一家住在康涅狄格州罗威顿。
“I told her that I was thinking about going back to work,” Ms. Chermayeff, 43, said. “We had never spoken about business before. She was a high-ranking executive at JPMorgan Chase and she told me about a new program at JPMorgan that she thought would suit my needs.”
“我告诉她，自己正考虑重回职场，”43岁的切尔马耶夫说。“以前我们从来没聊过工作。她是摩根大通银行(JPMorgan Chase)的高管，她觉得摩根大通的一个新项目正符合我的需要。”
Ms. Chermayeff applied and was selected from among 200 applicants for the first class of 10 women in JPMorgan’s work force re-entry program last September. After completing a 10-week internship, she landed a full-time job as a business manager for JPMorgan’s U.S. Private Bank.
于是切尔马耶夫申请了该项目，并在去年9月从200名申请者中脱颖而出，成为摩根大通首期重返职场项目的10名女性中的一员。在完成10周的实习后，她成为了摩根大通美国私人银行(JPMorgan’s U.S. Private Bank)的全职业务经理。
“I told my part-time babysitter, congratulations,” Ms. Chermayeff said. “You also now have a full-time job. “
“我对孩子的临时保姆说，恭喜你成为全职保姆，”切尔马耶夫说道。
Many women trying to return to work after a break have found it difficult to figure out how to navigate their way back in. JPMorgan’s effort is one of several small but growing programs started within the last year to help highly educated and accomplished women, like Ms. Chermayeff, return to jobs they left in finance and at law firms to care for children or aging parents.
许多中断工作后想要回归职场的女性都觉得找到重返之路并不容易。为了照顾小孩或年迈的父母，像切尔马耶夫女士这样受教育程度高的优秀女性一度放弃了在金融企业或律所的工作。为了帮助她们重回职场，相关机构去年推出了几个规模不大却在不断成长的项目。摩根大通的重返职场项目正是其中之一。
At least four big law firms, including Baker Botts and Sidley Austin, are offering one-year paid internships starting this summer, with an opportunity for full-time work.
从今年夏天开始，包括贝克博茨律师事务所(Baker Botts)和盛德国际律师事务所(Sidley Austin)在内的至少四大律所将提供一年期的带薪实习，实习生将有机会转为全职员工。
On Wall Street, Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse have also started similar efforts in recent months; Goldman Sachs in 2008 was the first bank to offer such a program. Now more than 120 graduates work in full-time positions at the bank.
在华尔街，摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)和瑞士信贷(Credit Suisse)也在近几个月开始了类似的尝试；2008年，高盛(Goldman Sachs)成为率先实施此类项目的银行。如今，超过120名实习生在高盛项目中结业，并在该银行获得全职工作。
The reason is simple, said Peg Sullivan, global head of talent management at Morgan Stanley: “We are always looking for great talent, top talent wherever we can find it.”
实施这一项目的原因很简单，摩根士丹利全球人才管理主管佩格·沙利文(Peg Sullivan)说：“我们一直在寻找出色人才、顶尖人才，无论他们来自哪里。”
At Morgan Stanley, 15 women selected from more than 500 applicants started last month in the firm’s first 12-week re-entry program in New York. Before receiving their work assignments, they attended an intensive orientation program.
上个月，摩根士丹利在500多名申请者中选出了15位女性参加公司在纽约为期12周的首届重返职场项目。在布置工作任务之前，公司安排她们参加了密集的入职培训。
“We were pretty flexible about how long people have been out,” Ms. Sullivan said. “They needed to be ready to come to work, ready to engage. And they are. They are ready to give it 100 percent.”
 “对于她们离开职场的时长，我们没有硬性规定，”沙利文女士说。“但她们应当为回归工作、投入职场做好准备。事实上，她们已经充分准备好，愿意百分百地投入。”
While companies are offering flexible schedules, backup child care and other accommodations, the demanding work schedules for people in the financial services industry and big law firms are daunting for even the most committed employees.
虽然一些公司提供了弹性工作时间、儿童看护后援以及其它安排，但金融服务行业和大型律所对员工工作时间的高要求让那些最忠诚的员工都感到畏惧。
A study of high-achieving women found that 31 percent voluntarily left the work force between 2004 and 2009, primarily for child care reasons, according to an analysis by the Center for Work-Life Policy, now known as the Center for Talent Innovation.
一项针对高成就女性的研究发现，在2004年-2009年，她们中有31%的人自愿离开了工作岗位。据当时的工作-生活政策中心（现名为人才创新中心[Center for Talent Innovation]）分析，她们离职的主要原因是为了照顾孩子。
After career breaks averaging two and a half years, 89 percent said they wanted to return, the study found. But only 40 percent managed to find what they regarded as a good full-time job in the sector of their choice.
研究发现，在事业平均中断2年半后，89%的人说她们希望回到工作岗位。但只有40%的人能够在她们首选的行业中找到合适的全职工作。
“There is no easy way to access the opportunities as a returnee,” said Sylvia Ann Hewlett, an author of the study and chairman and chief executive of the Center for Talent Innovation. “These are very bright women and the business of reskilling is quick and seamless.”
“回归职场的人并不容易得到好机会，”该研究报告作者兼人才创新中心主席兼首席执行官西尔维亚·安·休利特(Sylvia Ann Hewlett)说。“这些女士们非常聪明，而且她们的再培训快速高效。”
Recognizing the challenges of returning to work, even after short breaks, Carol Fishman Cohen and Vivian Steir Rabin, both graduates of Harvard Business School, wrote a book for women, “Back on the Career Track” (2007), and started a conference business, iRelaunch.com.
由于意识到即使在较短的间隔之后，重返职场也充满挑战，毕业于哈佛商学院的卡罗尔·菲什曼·科恩(Carol Fishman Cohen)和维维安·斯代尔·拉宾(Vivian Steir Rabin)为这样的女性写了一本书：《回归职业轨道》（Back on the Career Track，2007年出版），并创立了会议服务公司iRelaunch.com。
“You get really overwhelmed by all the issues about returning to work,” said Ms. Cohen, who left her job in finance to focus on raising four children during her 11 years out of the work force. “It is hard to separate the real ones that are emotional versus the actual conversations that you might have.”
“重返职场时你会遇到各种问题，真的会让人应接不暇，”为抚养4个孩子而离开金融业11年的科恩女士说。“很难将感性的一面与务实的交流分开。”
Of course, not all new parents or people in need of a leave to care for children or aging parents can afford a timeout. Most women in the workplace see little or no choice about returning to full-time work after their maternity leave ends, with so many families today relying on two incomes to get by. In 40 percent of households with children under the age of 18, married and single mothers are either the sole or primary source of income for the family, according to a 2013 Pew Research Center analysis.
当然，并非所有需要离职照顾小孩的新晋家长或照料年迈父母的人都能够放弃工作。在产假结束后，许多在职女性几乎没得选择，只能回到全职工作中去，因为如今许多家庭都要依靠两个人的收入才能维持。根据2013年皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的分析显示，在40%孩子未满18岁的单亲或双亲家庭里，母亲是家里的唯一或主要收入来源。
Betsy Myers, the founding director of the Center for Women and Business at Bentley University, said women filled about half of the middle-management ranks in many companies today. “Then there is a drop-off,” she said. “They go from 50 percent to 10 percent to 15 percent of women in their C-suite jobs.”
本特利大学妇女和商业中心(Center for Women and Business at Bentley University)的初创董事贝琪·迈尔斯(Betsy Myers)说，目前，女性占据了许多公司半数的中层管理职位。“然后越往上比例越小，”她说。“从中层的50%下降到高层的10%或15%。”
She said companies were recognizing they had to do more to retain women managers to get balanced leadership at the top. One of the most important ways, she said, is to show how much company leaders value employees considering a hiatus.
她说，许多公司承认，为了平衡高级领导层，留住女性管理者，他们需要做更多工作。她说，最重要的一个方法是，通过公司对员工工作暂时中断的态度显示公司领导对员工有多重视。
Ms. Myers, author of the book “Take The Lead,” also said that both men and women needed to be involved in figuring how to create a work force with gender balance. So do different generations, she said, given the rise of millennials in the workplace and their expectations of living a more balanced life.
《带头》(Take The Lead)一书的作者迈尔斯女士也说，对于怎样创建一个性别平衡的工作环境，男性和女性应当群策群力。她说，不同代际员工的平衡也要考虑，因为越来越多的千禧一代进入职场，而他们期望更加和谐的生活。
In a reflection of this, the women’s employee affinity network at the bank HSBC changed its name, she said. “They call it the Balance Affinity Network,” she said. “They want to invite men to the table and the different generations. They want to create a culture where it is not just, ‘How do we keep women?’ but ‘How do we harness the best talent in our company where people will want to stay?’ ”
她说，汇丰银行(HSBC)的女性员工亲和网络相应地改了名称。“他们改名叫平衡亲和网络，”她说。“她们希望邀请男性以及不同代际的同事参与进来，创建一种文化，这种文化不仅关注‘我们要怎样留住女性？’而且聚焦于‘我们怎样管理出色的人才，让他们愿意留在公司？’”
For experienced lawyers with a career gap, Caren Ulrich Stacy has created the OnRamp Fellowship. Four big law firms have joined the program and more than a dozen others have expressed interest recently, she said. Applications for the first group of fellows were due in early March.
卡伦·乌利齐·史黛西(Caren Ulrich Stacy)为有经验但事业间断的律师建立了弯道协会(OnRamp Fellowship)。她说，有四大律所加入了该项目，另外有超过12家律所最近表示有兴趣参与。第一批会员申请在今年3月初截止。
Ms. Stacy, who has hired thousands of lawyers as a recruitment expert over nearly two decades, said she found it difficult to find firms willing to hire experienced lawyers with career gaps.
作为一名有着近20年招聘经验的专家，史黛西聘用过数千名律师，但她说很少有事务所愿意聘用经验丰富却中断过事业的律师。
“These are women with very impressive backgrounds,” Ms. Stacy said. Under the program, the one-year fellowships pay $125,000. While the salary is lower than the typical $160,000 paid to associates just out of law school, the hope is that fellows will be offered permanent positions at the end of a year.
“这些人有着极其出色的背景，”史黛西女士说。该项目的会员一年可获得12.5万美元，虽然薪水比一般法学院刚毕业的助理16万美元的薪水少，但他们有望在年末获得永久性职位。
Several applicants were women who recently completed the New Directions for Attorneys program that Pace Law School started in 2007 to help people return to the legal profession. The program, which costs about $7,000, is offered twice a year, according to Amy Gewirtz-McGahan, the director.
一些申请者刚刚完成了佩斯法学院的律师新方向项目(New Directions for Attorneys Program that Pace Law School)，该项目始于2007年，旨在帮助人们重返法律领域。项目主任葛维兹·麦加恩(Gewirtz-McGahan)表示该项目每年有两期，费用约为7000美元。
Students spend two and a half months in the classroom, polishing their legal research, technology and writing skills. Then they get an internship, expand their network and eventually return to work.
学生们在教室里度过两个半月，在那里磨炼法律检索、技术运用和写作技能。接着安排他们实习，扩展他们的人脉网络并最终帮助他们回归职场。
“It was a tremendously successful experience for me,” said Erica Fitzgerald, 39, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., who enrolled in the program last September. A former assistant district attorney in the Bronx, she took off 12 years to raise two sons. She is now working at Littman Krooks, a law firm in nearby White Plains.
“这对我而言是一场非常成功的经历，”纽约马马罗内克39岁的埃里卡·菲茨杰拉德(Erica Fitzgerald)说，她在去年9月参加了该项目。她曾在布朗克斯区任职地区助理检察官，后来为了抚养两个儿子而离开工作12年。她目前就职于怀特普莱恩斯附近的利特曼-克鲁克斯(Littman Krooks)律师事务所。
But the program, while useful, has not helped Lisa Peterson, 52, of Larchmont, N.Y., land a full-time job, she said. She has been focusing her search on the nonprofit sector. “I am finding it very challenging to find paid employment,” said Ms. Peterson, a graduate of Brown University and New York University Law School who worked eight years at Paul Weiss before leaving after her second child was born in 1994.
纽约拉奇蒙特52岁的丽莎·彼得森(Lisa Peterson)说，这个项目虽然有用，但是却没能帮助她找到一份全职工作。她目前主要在非营利领域寻找工作。“我发现很难找到付薪工作，”毕业于布朗大学(Brown University)和纽约大学法学院(New York University Law School)的彼得森女士说，她曾在宝维斯律师事务所(Paul Weiss)工作8年，于1994年在第二个孩子出生后离职。
“I met with someone a month ago, and she read a list of questions. One was, ‘What is your five-year plan?’ Well, I want to do something. I want an encore career that has purpose and meaning.”
“上个月我碰到了一个人，她问了我一串问题。其中一个是‘你的五年计划是什么？’当然我想有所作为。我想重新拾起有使命感、有意义的事业。”
For Ms. Chermayeff, now at JPMorgan, the transition has gone smoothly at work and at home. “It is a new normal that we are trying to get to,” she said about her family. “They are at home. They are at school. I am at work. I have not disappeared. I took a job.”
对在摩根大通工作的切尔马耶夫女士而言，她的工作和家庭过渡十分顺利。“我们正努力把目前的状况常态化，”她谈及自己的家庭说。“他们要么在家，要么上学，我则是在上班。我并没有消失，只是有了一份工作。”
The experiences of the women following are similar.
下面这些女士的经历也类似。
Arlene Houston, 43
阿琳·休斯顿(Arlene Houston)，43岁
Manhattan
曼哈顿
Vice president, Goldman Sachs
高盛副总裁
In 2004, Arlene Houston was working in leveraged finance for a private equity firm in Manhattan when her father died, leaving her ill mother alone in Oklahoma City.
2004年，阿琳·休斯顿在曼哈顿的一家私募股权公司从事杠杆融资工作。那年，她父亲过世，留下患病的母亲独自在俄克拉荷马市生活。
“I was the only child, and I lived 1,500 miles away,” Ms. Houston said. “I was working 80 hours a week. It was not easy.”
“我是独生女，远在1500英里之外，”休斯顿女士说。“当时我每周要工作80个小时，很难两头兼顾。”
Ms. Houston, who came to New York in 1996 after earning an M.B.A. and law degree from Duke University, decided to take a year off to help get her mother’s health back on track. “Then I was going to go back into the industry or do something else,” she said. “That was the plan.”
休斯顿在拿到杜克大学(Duke University)的工商管理硕士和法律学位后，于1996年来到纽约。此时她决定离职一年，照料母亲，帮助她恢复健康。“然后我再回到这个行业或者做一些其它的事，”她说。“当时是这样打算的。”
After working as a freelance business consultant for more than three years, Ms. Houston was ready to return to Wall Street. In 2008, a friend had told her about a new re-entry program at Goldman Sachs starting in September for about a dozen people. She was accepted and after completing the 10-week program, she took a full-time position as a vice president.
在当了三年多的自由商业顾问后，体斯顿准备重返华尔街。2008年，一个朋友跟她说起了高盛一项新的重返职场项目，项目从9月开始，名额大约为12人。她成功进入了该项目，并且在完成10周的项目后，取得了副总裁的全职职位。
Now, Ms. Houston is a vice president in equity derivatives operations and says she has struck a good balance for her life. She has since moved her mother to Manhattan. “I still have the flexibility to maintain my mother’s care,” she said. “That’s important.”
现在，休斯顿女士是高盛股票衍生品业务部门的副总裁，她说她在生活上也取得了良好的平衡。她把母亲接到了曼哈顿。“我仍能够有余裕照顾母亲，”她说。“这非常重要。”
Virginia Ryan, 54 
弗吉尼亚·瑞恩(Virginia Ryan)，54岁
Manhattan
曼哈顿
Lawyer at Barnard College, Columbia University
巴纳德学院(Barnard College)、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)律师
Virginia Ryan continued to work part time at a law firm for about six months after her first child was born. She left in 1996. She had two more children. “I got very busy,” she said. “I was in the thick of it.”
在第一个孩子出生后，弗吉尼亚·瑞恩继续在律师事务所兼职了约6个月，最终于1996年离职。后来又生了两个孩子。“我变得非常忙，”她说。“简直要被淹没了。”
Then, a couple of years ago, she woke up one morning with a great sense of urgency. “I felt the clock ticking, and I felt that I had to get a job right now or I would never get one.“
几年前的一天，一觉醒来时，她突然感到了巨大的紧迫感。“我觉得时间在飞逝，我必须马上就找份工作，不然永远都没有机会了。”
Ms. Ryan spent a year trying to figure out what to do, with little success. “I was stuck. I was completely stuck.” She signed up for Pace Law School’s New Directions program, which helps experienced lawyers refresh their skills and find internships. She landed one at Barnard College, where she had received her B.A.
瑞恩花了一年时间想弄明白应该做什么，但没有多大收获。“我被困住了，完全没有进展。”她参加了佩斯法学院的新方向项目，该项目帮助有经验的律师更新技能、寻找实习机会。最终她在巴纳德学院得到了一份实习机会，当年就是在这里她获得了学士学位。
Now, Ms. Ryan is working there part time and also has a part-time job at Columbia University, not far from her Upper West Side home.
如今，瑞恩在巴纳德学院和离上西区的家不远的哥伦比亚大学分别有一份兼职工作。
“Dinner conversation is now, ‘What did you do at work?’ “ she said. “I think I see glimmers of pride. A little bit of amusement. It has been extremely gratifying to have that with my children.”
“现在我们家里的谈话内容是，‘你今天工作发生了什么’，”她说。“我在工作中找到了一丝自豪感和几分乐趣。和孩子们进行这样的谈话真的非常高兴。”
Hope Tully, 49 
奥佩·塔利(Hope Tully)，49岁
Katonah, N.Y.
纽约州卡托纳
Relationship manager for JPMorgan’s U.S. Funds
摩根大通美国基金(JPMorgan’s U.S. Funds)公关经理
Born and raised in the Philippines, Hope Tully was determined to earn an M.B.A. in the United States. She did, at Harvard, graduating in 1992. She then went to work on Citibank’s derivatives desk, spending seven years until she left in 1999 after her second child. “I was going to take two years off and then come back,” she said.
在菲律宾出生长大的奥佩·塔利下定决心要在美国拿到工商管理硕士学位。1992年，她从哈佛毕业，达成了目标。接着进入花旗银行(Citibank)衍生品部门工作，七年后的1999年，在第二个孩子出生后，她离开了工作岗位。“我本来打算隐退两年，然后回来继续工作，”她说。
But then she learned that one of her daughters has a rare disease. “With this sort of challenge thrown to our family, my husband and I decided to focus our energy on this area.”
但后来，她的一个女儿被诊断患有罕见病。“在家庭遭受到这样的挑战时，我和丈夫决定把全部精力花在这上面。”
Four months later, they organized an international medical conference on the disease, the first of several she would organize even as her husband’s job took the family to London.
四个月后，他们组织了第一次针对该疾病的国际医学会议。即使在全家因为丈夫工作调动而搬到伦敦后，她仍组织了好几次会议。
In 2011, the Tullys returned to New York. Two independent drug trials had been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. “The stars were kind of aligned. This was really the right time for me to go back to work,” she said.
2011年，塔利一家回到了纽约。美国食品和药物管理局(Food and Drug Administration)批准了针对该疾病的两项独立药物试验。“这算是时来运转吧。我当时看到了自己回归工作的好时机，”她说。
She learned about the JPMorgan program last year through the Harvard Business School alumni organization. She now works in the global strategy group.
她去年从哈佛商学院的校友组织那里得知了摩根大通的项目，目前供职于该行全球策略部。
“To be honest with you, I thought there would be more of an adjustment than there has been,” she said. “It is like learning how to ride a bike. Once you get back on it, you can ride it. And that is what I felt coming back.”
“老实说，我原以为比起过去，会有许多新东西要我适应，”她说。“不过就像骑车一样，一旦坐回到自行车上，你就会骑了。我的回归正是这样的感觉。”