In recent years, the discussion on international students in the United States has largely been about how to best recruit talented students from overseas.
近年来，与在美留学生有关的讨论主要集中在如何从海外招收最优秀的学生这一问题上。
That may be changing. Now that foreign students are on American campuses in large numbers, the conversation is shifting from recruitment strategies to questions about serving their needs.
这种状况可能正在改变。鉴于美国校园内的外国学生数量急剧增长，讨论的话题正在从招生战略转换到如何满足他们的需求上面。
National data on international-student retention and satisfaction is scarce. But two studies presented at last month’s annual meeting of the Association of International Education Administrators may shed some light on those issues.
关于留学生留校率及满意度的全国性数据非常稀少。但在上个月召开的国际教育管理者协会(Association of International Education Administrators)年会上，两项研究报告也许能揭示一些信息。
One study, by C.K. Kwai, director of international programs at the University of Maine at Orono, examined what factors contributed to the retention of foreign undergraduates in two Midwestern university systems. Mr. Kwai looked at several factors, including academic performance, integration into campus life and students’ schooling and experience before reaching the United States.
其中一项由缅因大学(University of Maine)国际项目部主任桂智辉（C.K. Kwai，音译）博士主持的研究，审视了哪些因素促使中西部大学系统的国际本科生继续留校学习。桂博士观察的因素包括学习成绩、校园生活融合度、来美前的学习经历等。
Just three of the factors that Mr. Kwai tested had a statistically significant and positive effect on student retention: grade-point average in the spring semester of the freshman year, the number of credit hours attempted (students who took heavier course loads, up to a point, were more likely to continue in their degree programs) and on-campus employment.
他测试后发现，仅有三个因素对国际学生留校率产生了具有统计学意义的正面影响：大一春季学期的平均绩点、还需要完成的学分时（课业负担重的学生往往更有可能继续深造）和校内打工情况。
That two of the factors were academic is significant, Mr. Kwai said, since it suggests that good early academic advising could improve international student success. As for why campus employment would matter, Mr. Kwai hypothesized that having a job could make a student feel more a part of the institution.
其中有两个因素是学术方面的，这一点非常重要，桂博士说，因为它表明，良好的早期学术指导可以提高国际学生顺利毕业的几率。至于校内打工这一因素，夸伊猜测说有一份工作或许会让学生对就读高校产生更浓厚的归属感。
Notably, however, Mr. Kwai’s results indicated that English-language skill was not a significant factor in foreign-student retention, at least as measured by performance on standardized English-proficiency examinations.
但值得注意的是，这一研究结果表明，英语技能并不是影响外国学生留校率的显著因素，这至少是依据标准化英语能力考试成绩观察而来的结果。
That finding seemed to contradict recent concerns that poor language skills, particularly among undergraduates from countries like China, were hampering students’ ability to succeed academically and culturally on American campuses.
这一发现似乎跟最近引发教育界关切的一种现象相矛盾。这种现象是，语言能力差正在妨碍美国校园的国际学生在学业和文化融入方面获得成功，尤其是那些来自中国等国家的本科生。
But after the session Mr. Kwai cautioned that educators ought not to read too much into the seeming lack of connection between performance on English-language exams and retention. He noted a complaint by both international administrators and classroom teachers that such exams were often a better measure of test-taking ability than English skill, especially in countries with traditions of strong test preparation.
但桂博士在会议结束后告诫说，教育工作者不应该过度解读英语能力考试成绩和留校率之间貌似缺少直接联系这一现象。他指出，国际教育管理者和教师都抱怨称，这类考试往往更擅于衡量一位学生的应试能力，而不是英语技能，这种现象在那些应试教育传统根深蒂固的国家尤为多见。
Nafsa: Association of International Educators, a nonprofit organization for international education professionals, is working with World Education Services, another nonprofit group that researches international student issues, to conduct a national study on the factors that contribute to foreign-student retention and success. The findings will be released this year.
国际教育工作者协会(Nafsa: Association of International Educators)，一家由国际教育领域专业人士组成的非营利性组织，正联合另一家致力于国际学生问题研究的非营利性组织世界教育服务(World Education Services)进行一项全美调查，以期发现影响国际学生留校率和顺利毕业的因素。研究结果将在今年发布。
Mr. Kwai’s co-presenter, David L. Di Maria, director of international programs and services at Kent State University, explored the attitudes toward foreign students of staff members in student-affairs offices at five Ohio public universities.
桂博士的研究搭档，肯特州立大学(Kent State University)国际项目和服务中心主任大卫·迪马里亚( David L. Di Maria)就五所俄亥俄州公立大学学生事务办公室人员对国际学生的态度进行了一番调研。
Staff members in offices like residence life, student counseling and career services often are asked to work closely with international students but do not have specific training to meet their needs. In fact, half of the respondents to Mr. Di Maria’s survey said they felt unprepared to work with this growing group of students and 90 percent said they wanted more training.
校方常要求学生住宿、辅导及就业服务办公室的工作人员与国际学生保持密切联系，但并没有提供过满足学生需求的相关训练。事实上，一半受访者都反映，他们感到自己并没有做好为日益增多的国际学生提供服务的准备，90%的受访者希望获得更多的培训。
As many as 64 percent said their offices were not doing anything specifically to accommodate the foreign student population.
多达64%的受访者表示，他们所在的办公室并没有特意做一些工作，以适应国际学生的需求。
The message, Mr. Di Maria said, is: “Yes, international students have unique needs, but we’re not prepared to provide unique services.”
迪马里亚说，这个调查结果蕴含的讯息是：“没错，国际学生是有独特的需求，但我们还没有做好提供独特服务的准备。”。
At Kent State, Mr. Di Maria has set up an international-students advisory committee to catch issues “before they snowball.” His office also is trying to provide better training for both faculty and staff members in working with international students.
在肯特州立大学，迪马利亚设立了一个国际学生咨询委员会，希望及时发现相关需求，避免“问题像雪球越滚越大”。他的办公室也正在尝试为教师和服务于国际学生的工作人员提供更好的培训。
As the foreign-student market begins to mature, the conversation among international educators is naturally shifting from recruitment strategies to retention, Mr. Di Maria said.
迪马利亚说，随着国际学生市场开始走向成熟，国际教育工作者的话题自然而然地从招生战略转移到如何提高留校率上面。
Ensuring that international students enjoy their time on American campuses and succeed academically is important to continuing recruitment, he noted, adding: “The best recruitment strategy is a good retention strategy.”
他指出，确保国际学生在美国校园过得开心，并学有所成，对于未来的招生工作意义重大。他补充说，“能够留住学生的策略，就是最好的招生策略。”