Let’s say your beliefs include the notion that hard work will bring good things to you, that the golden rule is a nice idea though it may occasionally have limits, and that it’s more or less every person for him or herself. Your overall guiding force is not altruism, but you’re not immoral; you’re a good citizen, and you don’t break any major laws. This could describe many of us; most, maybe.
我们假设你的信条包括：相信努力能得到回报；认为待人如己、己所不欲勿施于人的原则很棒，可是也有其局限性；而且每个人都或多或少地有自己的私心。总体上指导你行为的准则并不是利他主义，但你也不是不讲道德，你是个好公民，不会违反任何重大的法律。我们当中很多人都符合这种描述，或许大多数人都符合。
Now suppose you’re in the business of producing, marketing or selling tobacco or firearms — products known to sometimes kill others. You need not be a corporate executive or a criminal arms dealer; you might be a retailer of cigarettes, a person who sells them along with magazines, a marketer, a gun shop owner. In any case, your conscience is clear: you’re selling regulated legal products and, as long as you’re obeying the regulations, you’re doing nothing illegal. (“Wrong” is a judgment call.)
现在假设你从事的生意是生产、推广、销售烟草或枪支，我们都知道这种产品有时会把人弄死。你并不一定是这种公司的高管或者犯过罪的枪贩子，可能只是把香烟摆在杂志旁边零售的小贩，营销人员或者枪店老板。不管怎样，你良心上不会有愧疚：你是在销售受到政府监管的合法商品，而且只要你遵守规章，做的事情就并不违法。（至于“对错”，就是见仁见智的判断了。）
You sleep well, believing that the government would further regulate your product if it were necessary. And if regulations were to change, you’d change with them. But to act otherwise — to hold back your energy from production or sales just because of moral or social pressure — would be foolish, and put you at a competitive disadvantage.
你晚上不会夜不成寐，相信如果有必要的话，政府会进一步监管你的商品。而如果监管措施发生变动，你也会相应地作出改变。但是如果考虑太多，比如仅仅出于道德或社会的压力，就不再生产或销售这些商品，那就太傻了，而且还会在竞争上处于劣势。
For many years after knowing about the lethal nature of tobacco, our government did little or nothing to limit its consumption. That’s changed gradually in the last 50 years, and more dramatically since 1998, because of successful lawsuits and because the Food and Drug Administration often tries to pursue its mission. (For a variety of reasons not worth going into, firearms are more challenging to regulate. Let’s leave it at that for now.)
在了解到烟草会致人死亡后的很多年里，政府都没有采取过什么措施限制烟草的消费。这种姿态在过去50年里逐渐发生了转变，而自1998年以来则转变得更为激烈，原因是一些案件取得胜诉，及美国食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)也常常会努力履行自己的职责。（出于一系列没有必要详述的原因，枪支的监管更有挑战性。今天就先不谈了。）
O.K., so suppose we pass legislation that discourages you from producing or selling tobacco or firearms while at the same time actively encouraging you — supporting you — to change to producing apples or cotton or washing machines or screwdrivers; as long as you could see a way to increase profit, you’d probably look at the new opportunity. After all, it’s not as if you want to produce agents of death. You want to make the best living you can selling stuff that’s legal and that people want. Markets change, and flexibility is important, and the government can and does affect your business, even if it’s by inaction.
再假设我们通过了立法，打消你生产销售烟草或枪支的积极性，同时又积极地鼓励你，支持你改变业务范围，去种植苹果、棉花，或者生产洗衣机、螺丝刀；只要你有办法提高利润，应该就会考虑这些新机遇。毕竟，你的本意也并不是去生产会要人命的东西，你想要的是通过销售人们想买的合法商品，过上尽可能好的生活。市场会变，灵活性就很重要，政府有能力、而且也的确会影响你的生意，即使手段是无所作为。
Now let’s apply this same way of thinking to the major food categories — and for the purposes of this discussion there are only three — and what it’s like to be a farmer or producer, or a manufacturer, processor, distributor, retailer of this stuff. Again, you’re agnostic about what you sell, but you’re profit-conscious. And the government can and does affect your business; it can help your business (“you didn’t build it yourself”) or hurt it, as it should if your business is harming others.
现在把相同的思维模式套用到几大食品分类里，具体到本文的讨论，只谈其中的三大类。我们也会谈到农场主、生产商、制造商、加工商、分销商、零售商的处境。同样的，你不在乎自己卖什么，但是你关注盈利。而且政府有能力、也的确会影响你的生意，它能帮助你的生意（“并不是你凭一己之力建成的”）也能损害你的生意——如果你的生意会损害别人，政府就应该这么做。
Let’s call the first food group industrially produced animal products. Producing and selling as much as possible is the way to go here, since the penalties for damage your product does to human and animal health and to the environment (including climate) are virtually nonexistent. You can treat the animals as you like and damn the consequences, from salmonella contamination to antibiotic resistance to water contamination to, of course, cruelty. There are even incentives, in the form of subsidized prices for animal feed.
姑且把第一类食品称为“工业化动物制品”，这类产品惯常的做法是尽可能多地生产、销售，因为你的产品对人类和动物的健康、对环境（包括气候）造成的损害，几乎不会受到任何惩罚。你可以随心所欲地对待动物，管它什么后果，不用在乎沙门氏菌感染、抗生素耐药性、水污染，当然也不用在乎残忍。甚至还存在一些优惠措施鼓励你这样做，形式是受到价格补贴的动物饲料。
The next group is most easily labeled junk food; you might call it “hyperprocessed.” This comprises aisles and aisles of “edibles” sold in supermarkets and restaurants, and is often “food” that’s unrecognizable as such, ranging from soda and other sugar-sweetened beverages to things like chicken nuggets and Pringles and tens of thousands of other examples. These are mostly made from commodity crops, especially corn, soybeans and wheat. Federal subsidies abound in many forms here, from direct payments (in theory, these are ending, to be replaced by a bizarre form of crop insurance) to the ethanol mandate to virtually unregulated land use that permits toxic overapplication of fertilizers and other chemicals. There is also that same failure to recognize the public health and environmental costs of what is probably the least healthy diet a wealthy nation could devise. You could even say that the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, usually called food stamps) acts as a subsidy to junk food, since nothing limits using food stamps for food that promotes disease. It’s worth noting that for the past century the bulk of university research, much of it paid for with tax dollars, has gone into figuring out how to increase the yield of the crops and processes that turn out this junk that sickens.
下一类食品可以很容易地被定性为“垃圾食品”，你也可以形容它“加工过度”了。这一类食品包括超市里摆满一排排货架、餐馆里也有销售的“食用品”，它们通常是看不出是食品的“食品”，其中包括碳酸饮料和其他为了增甜而加了糖的饮料，还有炸鸡块、品客(Pringles)薯片，以及成千上万种别的东西。这些食品主要是由大规模种植的作物生产的，尤其是玉米、大豆和小麦。在这一领域，联邦政府提供了多种形式的大量补贴，从直接拨款（理论上这种补贴即将结束，会由一种古怪的农作物保险取代），到“乙醇政策”(ethanol mandate)，再到几乎不受监管的耕地使用，致使化肥和其他化学品的滥用到了有害的地步。还有一个问题是，我们同样没能认识到饮食习惯对公众健康和环境造成的损害，虽然我们的饮食习惯恐怕是一个富裕国家能设想出的最不健康的。甚至有理由说，俗称“食品券”的“营养补充援助计划”（Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program，简称SNAP）起到了为垃圾食品提供补贴的作用，因为用食品券购买可能诱发疾病的食品不会受到任何限制。值得一提的另一个问题是，在过去一个世纪里，各大学做出的大量研究（很多花的都是纳税人的钱），都是为了研究如何提高农作物的产量和生产流程的效率，以生产损害健康的垃圾食品。
Then, in the third group, there’s everything else, from fruits and vegetables — absurdly called “specialty crops” by the Department of Agriculture — to animals raised in sustainable and even humane ways. But here, disincentives abound: farmers may be encouraged to allow some land to go fallow, but not to be planted in specialty crops, and research money, subsidies, insurance, market promotion and access to credit are directed toward industrial food production, distribution and sales. These inefficiencies make most of this real food, which is health-promoting and closer to environmentally neutral, appear to be more expensive. (Only “appear,” though. If you account for the costs of environmental and public health damage, industrially produced junk food and animal products actually cost more.)
之后是第三类，其他所有食品都在此列，包括水果和蔬菜——被美国农业部(Department of Agriculture)荒唐地称作“特种作物”(specialty crops)——还包括以可持续乃至人性化的方式养殖的动物。然而在这个领域却存在着大量的不利因素：政府或许会鼓励农民休耕，但不会鼓励他们种植特种作物，而研究经费、政府补贴、保险、市场推广、信贷支持都会流向工业化的食品生产、批发和销售。这些效率低下的因素使得多数真正的食品都会显得更昂贵，而这些正是能促进健康，对环境的影响也更接近中性的食品。（好在只是“显得昂贵”。如果考虑破坏环境、损害公众健康的成本，工业化食品和动物产品实际上成本更高。）
In a neutral (“free”) market, there’d be more room for producers and processors of fruits and vegetables to make money by responding to increased demand for wholesome fruits and vegetables without competing with subsidized junk food. In a sane — let’s say properly regulated — market, there’d be incentives for agriculture that benefited both grower and consumer with products that were less damaging to the environment and public health. Food stamps, for example, would be restricted to use for nourishing food. Direct subsidies might be used to encourage new farmers who wanted to grow “specialty crops” rather than for farmers working thousands of acres of corn.
消费者对有益健康的水果和蔬菜的需求正在日益增强，在一个中立（即“自由”）的市场里，应当会出现更大的空间，让水果和蔬菜的生产商和加工商能通过满足这种需求赚到钱，而不需要与受到补贴的垃圾食品相竞争。在一个理智（或者说受到妥善监管）的市场，应当会有一些举措，鼓励那些能让种植者和消费者同时受益的农业生产模式，其农产品对环境和公众健康的损害也更小。例如，限制食品券仅用于购买有益健康的食品，或许也应该通过直接补贴来鼓励那些希望种植“特种作物”的新型农场主，而不是那些耕种数千英亩玉米的农场主。
One could imagine a government that encourages more life-giving (and less disease-causing) agriculture just as one can acknowledge that sanity prevails when government steeply taxes tobacco and encourages its farmers to move on to something else. (I’m not saying, by the way, that tobacco farmers have been treated fairly; much more could have been done — and still could be done — to help them transition to other profitable crops.)
就像人们承认政府对烟草课以重税，鼓励烟农改种其他作物时，是理智占了上风一样，人们也应该能想象，政府该鼓励开展更滋养人的农业活动，而不是致人患病的农业活动。（不过，我倒不是说烟农得到的待遇是公平的，时至今日都还可以采取很多措施，帮助他们改种其他利润更丰厚的作物。）
Of course this is disruptive; change the status quo, and someone is hurt. But the public health disaster created by our commodity-pushing agricultural policies is only getting worse, and calls for the same kind of action in industrial agriculture that we’ve seen in tobacco and, to a lesser extent, in guns. That kind of action will happen only when we have political representatives who care about food, health and the environment.
这当然会搅乱行业的现状，而改变现状就会有人利益受损。但是我们推动商品化的农业政策所造成的公共卫生灾难只会变得越来越严重，所以在工业化的农业生产领域，也需要采取对烟草行业采取的那种措施，在一定程度上对枪支也一样。要想采取这种举措，我们就必须要有关心食品、健康和环境的政治代表。
We can pressure corporations all we want, and what we’ll get, mostly, is healthier junk food. Really, though, as long as sugar is profitable and 100 percent unrestricted (and subsidized and protected!), marketers will try to get 2-year-olds hooked on soda and Gatorade.
即使我们向大企业极力施压，最终能得到的充其量也只是更健康的垃圾食品。而实际上，只要卖糖能赚钱，而且100%不受监管（不仅不受监管，还能得到补贴和保护！）营销人员就会努力让2岁大的孩子迷上碳酸饮料和佳得乐(Gatorade)。
But the job of government is not to encourage profitable businesses at the cost of public health; it’s to regulate them so that the public is served. Who is this country for, anyway?
但是政府的职责可不是以牺牲公众的健康为代价，鼓励企业牟利，而是监管企业，从而让它们服务公众。说到底，这个国家为谁服务呢？