Thrust back into a central role in resolving the Syrian conflict, the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council met on Tuesday to negotiate a draft resolution that would hold Syria to its pledge of identifying all chemical weapons under government control for destruction, but diplomats said major differences over a draft quickly emerged.
本周二，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)五大常任理事国重拾自己在解决叙利亚冲突上的中心角色，举行会晤协商决议草案，目的是迫使叙利亚遵守承诺，在本国政府的控制下甄别并销毁所有化学武器。然而，外交官们表示，各方在拟定草案时迅速出现了重大分歧。
The diplomats, who declined to be identified, said Russia, Syria’s most important ally, was resisting components of the draft, composed by the three Western permanent members — Britain, France and the United States — that discuss the threat of force to ensure Syrian compliance, whether to condemn the Syrian government for chemical weapons use, and whether suspected users should be referred to the International Criminal Court for war crimes prosecutions.
一些拒绝具名的外交官说，叙利亚最重要的盟友俄罗斯反对由三个西方常任理事国英国、法国和美国拟定的部分草案条款，这些条款涉及以武力威胁确保叙利亚履行草案的做法，涉及是否对叙利亚政府使用化学武器进行谴责，还涉及是否应该将疑似使用者交给国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)，接受战争罪指控。
The discussions are unlikely to produce a quick resolution, the diplomats said, and it is unclear when a draft will be ready for a vote.
前述外交官说，这些讨论不太可能迅速产生决议，目前也不清楚，草案什么时候能够准备到可以表决的程度。
Renewed momentum for Security Council action got a boost from a framework agreement reached on Saturday between the United States and Russia under which the council would review Syria’s compliance with the Chemical Weapons Convention, which the country officially agreed to join that same day.
美国和俄罗斯于上周六达成的框架协议给安理会再次展开行动提供了新的动力，根据框架协议，安理会将核查叙利亚对《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)的履行情况，叙利亚已于上周六正式同意加入该公约。
Under the framework agreement, the Syrians are expected to submit by Saturday a “comprehensive listing” of all their chemical weapons supplies and facilities as a first step, with the goal of identifying and destroying the munitions by the middle of 2014. The agreement also specified that the Security Council should review Syrian compliance with the rules of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the Hague-based group that administers the treaty.
根据框架协议，叙利亚首先应该采取的举措是在周六之前提交一份“全面的名单”，列明叙利亚所有的化学武器储备和设施。协议的目的是截至2014年中期，甄别并销毁叙利亚的所有化武。协议还特别指出，安理会应该审核叙利亚是否能够履行禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)的规定，该组织位于海牙，负责《禁止化学武器公约》的执行工作。
Representatives of the council’s permanent members met a day after a United Nations panel of weapons inspectors confirmed that a devastating chemical weapons attack had been carried out near Damascus, the Syrian capital, on Aug. 21. Their report, the first independent on-the-ground inquest into that attack, did not ascribe blame. But nonproliferation experts said the litany of specific evidence presented appeared to implicate the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
安理会常任理事国代表举行会晤之前的一天，联合国的化武调查员小组确认，今年8月21日，叙利亚首都大马士革附近确曾发生一起灾难性的化学武器攻击事件。调查小组的报告是第一份针对袭击深入现场调研的独立报告，并没有指明谁是罪魁祸首。不过，防扩散专家说，调查小组呈交的一长串具体证据似乎暗示，巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府与攻击有关。
The Syrian government has said insurgents carried out the attack, in which hundreds of civilians were killed by exposure to sarin, a chemical nerve agent. Russia has supported the Syrian government’s assertion, arguing that it is illogical that Syrian forces could have been responsible.
叙利亚政府曾表示，是反对派武装实施了此次攻击。数以百计的平民因在袭击中接触神经制剂沙林毒气而死。俄罗斯支持叙利亚政府的主张，声称叙利亚政府军应为此负责的说法不合逻辑。
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, who called the report a chilling document that described a war crime, declined at a United Nations news conference on Tuesday to ascribe responsibility for that attack, a position he has consistently held.
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)称这份报告令人心寒，描述的是一起战争罪罪行。在周二的联合国新闻发布会上，潘基文秉持他一贯的立场，拒绝指明袭击的责任人。
But Mr. Ban expressed hope that the Russia-United States agreement reached Saturday, negotiated by Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia and Secretary of State John Kerry, had set in motion a diplomatic process that would overcome the divisions that have deadlocked the Security Council over Syria since the conflict there began 30 months ago.
但潘基文表示，希望俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)和国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)于上周六达成的俄美协议能够启动一个外交程序，以便打破联合国安理会内部各执一词的僵局，僵局是围绕30个月前开始的叙利亚冲突产生的。
“What is encouraging is that the two foreign ministers agreed on a framework agreement, how to deal with all these chemical weapons,” Mr. Ban said. “I hope that spirit of very friendly negotiations, on the basis of good rapport, will help forge a unity among the Security Council.”
“令人鼓舞的是，两名外长就如何处理这些化学武器达成了一个框架协议，”潘基文说。“这是一次非常友好的协商，建立在和谐的基础之上，我希望这种精神将帮助安理会达成一致。”
He also expressed hope that any Security Council resolution on Syria “can really be an enforceable one.”
他还表示，希望安理会针对叙利亚问题拿出的任何决议“能真正具有切实可行的特质”。
The Russia-United States agreement specifies that if Syria fails to comply with its obligations under the chemical weapons treaty, the Security Council should impose measures under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, which allows for coercive steps, including the use of military force.
俄美协议明确规定，如果叙利亚未能履行其在化学武器公约之下的义务，安理会就应按照《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)第7章采取行动，该章节允许强制举措，包括动用军事力量。
But differing interpretations of that passage have emerged among the permanent members of the Security Council over the past few days.
但在过去几天里，安理会各常任理事国对于这段措辞产生了不同的解读。
Diplomats said Russia wanted Chapter 7 mentioned as one of the options available to the council at a future date — opening the possibility that a further resolution would be needed if Syrian noncompliance became an issue. Britain, France and the United States, on the other hand, want the resolution language to convey the threat of Chapter 7 action immediately, in keeping with their publicly stated position that Syria cannot delay or dodge its obligations.
外交官员称，俄罗斯希望把第7章列为安理会的未来选项之一，这带来了一种可能性，即如果叙利亚的不合作成为一个问题，安理会就需要拿出进一步的决议。另一方面，英国、法国和美国希望决议语言能直接传达第7章所描述的威胁，这样的主张符合它们的公开立场，即叙利亚不应拖延或逃避其义务。
France and the United States have also said they reserve the right to punish Syria militarily, a position criticized by Russia as illegal under the United Nations Charter.
法国和美国还表示，它们保留武力惩罚叙利亚的权利，俄罗斯批评了这一立场，称这在《联合国宪章》下属于非法。
The differing views were reflected earlier Tuesday in a Moscow meeting between Mr. Lavrov and France’s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius. News agencies quoted Mr. Lavrov as saying the agreement with the United States had made clear that if Syria is noncompliant, “then the Security Council will examine the situation.”
周二早间，上述分歧在拉夫罗夫与法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)的莫斯科会晤当中得到了体现。新闻机构援引拉夫罗夫的话称，与美国的协议已经明确规定，如果叙利亚拒不合作，“安理会将对此种局势进行评估。”
Mr. Lavrov also disputed the conclusions drawn by his Western colleagues from the chemical weapons report. While Mr. Fabius said at a news conference that the report “exposes the regime,” Mr. Lavrov said his government had “serious reason to suggest that this was a provocation” carried out by insurgents seeking Mr. Assad’s demise.
拉夫罗夫还反驳了其西方同僚通过化学武器报告得出的结论。法比尤斯在新闻发布会上称，报告“揭露了该政权的行为”，拉夫罗夫却说，他的政府有“可靠理由认为，这是一次挑衅”，实施挑衅的是希望推翻阿萨德的反对派武装。