A CHINESE millionaire tried to give $300 (and lunch) to homeless men and women in New York last week. This didn’t sit well with the nonprofit New York City Rescue Mission. The Rescue Mission offered to help with lunch, but wouldn’t cooperate in handing out cash. So midway through a meal of sesame-crusted tuna and filet of beef, some 200 homeless people discovered that they would not be getting money. Instead, the Rescue Mission would accept $90,000 on their behalf. You can imagine the anger and humiliation.
上周，一名来自中国的百万富翁试图给纽约无家可归的男男女女提供300美元的现金（和午餐）。但纽约市援助会(New York City Rescue Mission)并不支持该计划。援助会表示愿意帮助安排午餐，但不会配合他发放现金。结果，大约200名无家可归者在享用撒有芝麻的金枪鱼和菲力牛排时，发现他们不会获得现金。援助会将代表他们接受九万美元的善款。大家可以想象当时的那种愤怒及耻辱感。
The millionaire, a recycling tycoon named Chen Guangbiao, wanted to set an example of generosity in the world’s financial capital. To announce the $300 giveaway, he’d taken out a full-page advertisement in The New York Times.
回收业巨头陈光标希望在世界金融之都树立慷慨捐赠的榜样。陈光标在《纽约时报》刊登整版广告，宣布发放每人300美元（约合1870元人民币）的计划。
The executive director of Rescue Mission said he was worried that people might spend the handout on drugs or alcohol. This pessimism (and paternalism) is common and understandable. But evidence from other countries suggests we should be more optimistic.
援助会执行董事表示，他担心一些救济对象会用这些现金购买毒品或酒。这种悲观看法（及家长作风）非常普遍，也是可以理解的。但其他国家的情况说明，我们应该乐观一些。
Globally, cash is a major tool to fight extreme poverty. The United Nations is handing out ATM cards to Syrian refugees alongside sacks of grain. The evidence suggests these cash programs work. There have been randomized trials of cash grants to poor Mexican families, Kenyan villagers, Malawian schoolgirls and many others. The results show that sometimes people just eat better or live in better homes. Often, though, they start businesses and earn more.
从全球范围来看，现金是摆脱极端贫困的主要工具。除了粮食，联合国还给叙利亚难民发放ATM卡。事实说明，这些现金计划发挥了作用。有人做了随机试验，为贫困的墨西哥家庭、肯尼亚村民、马拉维女学生等很多人提供现金补助。结果显示，有时候，人们只是在饮食、住宿方面获得改善。不过，他们常常会开始做生意，赚更多的钱。
In Uganda, my colleagues and I worked with a nonprofit that offered $150 and five days of business planning to 900 of the poorest women in the world. After 18 months, the women had twice the incomes of a random control group.
在乌干达，我和同事与一个非营利组织合作，为世界上900名最贫困的女性提供150美元，以及为期五天的商业规划培训。18个月后，这些女性的收入比随机选择的对照组的收入多一倍。
The poor do not waste grants. Recently, two World Bank economists looked at 19 cash transfer studies in Latin America, Africa and Asia. Almost all showed alcohol and tobacco spending fell or stayed the same. Only two showed any significant increase, and even there the evidence was mixed.
穷人不会浪费补助金。最近，世界银行(World Bank)的两名经济学家查阅了拉丁美洲、非洲及亚洲的19项有关现金转移的研究。几乎所有研究都说明，烟酒支出有所下降，或保持不变。只有两项研究显示，有些人的烟酒支出出现一定程度的增加，但即便是在这些研究中，情况也是有好有坏。
You might worry handouts encourage idleness. But in most experiments, people worked more after they received grants.
你可能担心，这种捐赠会增加人们的惰性。但在大多数试验中，人们在获得赠款后，更加努力工作。
You might also worry that the poorest of New York are different. The average person in Uganda is impoverished; it’s easy to believe he would make good decisions with cash. But a homeless person in New York is not average. Substance abuse is pervasive. Maybe panhandlers here are different from the global poor.
你或许还会担心，纽约的穷人与众不同。在乌干达，普通民众都处于贫困之中；因此人们很容易相信，他会就如何使用现金做出正确决定。但纽约的无家可归者不是普通民众。药物滥用的情况非常普遍。这里的乞丐或许与世界其他地方的穷人有所不同。
I used to believe this. Now I’m not sure. A few years ago, I started working in Liberia’s urban slums. My colleagues and I sought out men who were homeless or made their living dealing drugs or stealing. Many abused alcohol and drugs. We tested different programs in a randomized trial of a thousand men. One thing we tried was giving out $200 in cash.
我曾经也这么想。但现在，我不再那么确定了。几年前，我开始在利比里亚城市贫民区工作。我和同事寻找那些无家可归或靠贩毒偷窃谋生的男人。很多人酗酒、吸毒。我们对1000名男子进行了随机试验，测试了不同的项目。我们的试验之一就是发放200美元现金。
Almost no men wasted it. In the months after they got the cash, most dressed, ate and lived better. Unlike the Ugandans, however, whose new businesses kept growing, the Liberian men were back where they started a year later. Two hundred dollars was not enough to turn them into businessmen. But it brought them a better life for a while, which is the fundamental goal of any welfare program. We also tested a counseling program to reduce crime and violence. It worked a little on its own, but had the largest impact when combined with cash.
几乎没人浪费这些钱。在获得现金后的几个月里，大多数人的衣、食、住都有所改善。与生意不断扩大的乌干达人不同，利比里亚人在一年后回到了起点。200美元不足以让他们成为商人。但这笔钱暂时帮他们改善了生活，这也正是所有福利项目的基本目标。我们还开展了一个疏导试验项目，以减少犯罪及暴力行为。项目单独运作时作用不大，但在与现金发放计划结合之后，它产生了相当大的影响。
I haven’t spent any time with the homeless in the United States. Maybe I’d see that the differences are profound. But I ask myself: If homeless people and drug users in Liberia don’t misuse cash, why would we expect the homeless in New York to waste it?
我还没有在美国与无家可归者相处过。或许我会看到很多显著的差异。但我问自己：既然利比里亚的无家可归者和吸毒者没有滥用现金，那我们为什么认为纽约的无家可归者会浪费这些钱呢？
In 2010, Jim Rankin, a reporter for The Toronto Star, asked himself the same question. So he handed out five $50 prepaid Visa and MasterCard gift cards to panhandlers. What did they buy? Mostly food. Some phone minutes and clothes. A couple bought liquor as well.
2010年，《多伦多星报》(The Toronto Star)的吉姆·兰金(Jim Rankin)问了他自己同样的问题。因此，他给乞丐发放了五张价值50美元的Visa及MasterCard预付卡。他们买了什么？大多是食物。打了一些电话，买了一些衣服。一对夫妇还买了酒。
Back to the millionaire and the mission. The Rescue Mission has every right to be cautious. Perhaps our first duty is to do no harm, but I say that’s our second duty. Our first is to be skeptical of stereotypes of those we purport to help.
回到这名百万富翁及纽约援助会的问题上。该援助会完全有权保持谨慎。或许我们的首要义务是不造成损害，但我觉得这是第二义务。我们首先应该对围绕着我们应该援助的对象的陈腐看法持怀疑态度。
These stereotypes have consequences: The Family Independence Initiative tried paying poor American families in return for setting and meeting goals. Its demonstration project showed promising results. But the No. 1 obstacle the organization said it faced? Mistrust by donors and other nonprofits who held hard to the view that poor people can’t make good decisions.
这些陈腐看法造成一些后果：家庭独立计划(The Family Independence Initiative)试图为美国贫困家庭提供资金，以此作为他们设定并完成目标的回报。它的示范项目带来了令人满意的结果。但该组织面临的第一大阻碍是什么呢？捐赠者及其他非营利机构的不信任，他们坚信，穷人无法做出正确的决定。
Here in New York, the Opportunity NYC Family Rewards program has experimented with cash transfers to poor families. It sent $8,700 over three years to thousands of families. A randomized evaluation showed that self-employment went up and hunger and extreme hardship went down, at least while the cash transfers lasted.
在纽约，纽约家庭优惠机会计划(Opportunity NYC Family Rewards)开展了针对贫困人口的现金转移试验。该组织在三年的时间里给数以千计的家庭发放了8700美元的现金。随机评价显示，自由职业者有所增加，饥饿和极端困苦的情况有所减少，至少在实施现金转移计划期间是这样的。
These programs didn’t target the hard-core homeless. Are they so different? I don’t know. Even if handing out cash works, it’s surely only part of a larger solution. But why not try?
这些项目没有将长期无处安身的人纳入计划。他们真的如此不同吗？我不知道。即便分发现金能够发挥作用，这无疑只是整个解决方案的一部分。但为何不尝试一下呢？