A “Sound of Music” medley. A cover of the Beatles’ “Across the Universe.” A martial-sounding version of the arena rock anthem “The Final Countdown.”
《音乐之声》的大联唱。披头士《穿越宇宙》(Across the Universe)的翻唱。还有一曲听起来很英勇的体育场摇滚团歌《最后的倒计时》(The Final Countdown)的翻版。
A concert in Pyongyang on Wednesday by Laibach, an industrial rock band from Slovenia, was billed as the first live performance by a Western pop act in North Korea. And it left the audience with an eclectic view of just what makes a rock show.
这些都是斯洛文尼亚的工业摇滚风格乐队“莱巴赫”(Laibach)周三在平壤的一场音乐会上表演的曲目，这是一场被标榜为西方流行乐在朝鲜的首次现场表演。它给观众留下了一个摇滚演出应该兼收并蓄的印象。
Laibach, which was formed in 1980 in what was then Yugoslavia, is known for embracing fascist imagery in its costumes and videos, but with a wink that signals parody. “We are fascists as much as Hitler was a painter,” members said in an early 1980s interview.
莱巴赫乐队成立于1980年，当时那里还是南斯拉夫，乐队闻名于世的一个原因是，其在服装上和视频中喜欢使用法西斯主义的意象，不过使用时带着点暗示滑稽模仿的会意。乐队成员在20世纪80年代初接受采访时说，“说我们是法西斯分子，就和说希特勒是一位画家差不多。”
The band played at the Ponghwa Art Theater to a capacity crowd of more than 1,000 people. Several dozen foreigners were in attendance, including some Laibach fans who had come to the North Korean capital specifically for the show.
乐队在烽火艺术剧场为1000多名观众做了表演，全场座无虚席。观众中还有几十名外国人，包括一些莱巴赫乐队的粉丝，他们专程来到朝鲜首都观看表演。
But to most, it was an entirely new experience. In video clips from the concert, the audience watches passively and applauds politely between songs.
但对大多数观众来说，这是一次全新的经历。在音乐会视频片段中看到，观众被动地坐在那里，对每首歌曲报以礼貌的掌声。
“There are all kinds of music,” the BBC quoted one attendee as saying afterward. “Now we know that there’s this kind of music, too.”
英国广播公司(BBC)援引一位观众在音乐会结束之后的话说，“有各种各样的音乐。现在我们知道，还有这样的音乐。”
Laibach’s concerts in Pyongyang — another is scheduled for Thursday — are part of North Korea’s celebrations to commemorate the end of World War II and Japanese colonial rule. The official news media gave the Wednesday show a nod of approval.
莱巴赫乐队在平壤的表演，是朝鲜为纪念第二次世界大战及日本殖民统治结束而举行的庆祝活动的一部分，乐队预定在周四还有一场演出。官方新闻媒体对周三的表演表示赞许。
“Performers showed well the artistic skill of the band through peculiar singing, rich voice and skilled rendition,” reported KCNA, North Korea’s state-run news service.
朝鲜国家通讯社朝中社的报道说，“乐队通过独特的唱腔、丰富的音色和熟练的演绎，表现出很好的艺术手法。”
Morten Traavik, a Norwegian director who organized the band’s performances, said that the false impressions surrounding Laibach made the group a good fit to play in the authoritarian state.
组织乐队演出的挪威导演莫滕·特拉维克(Morten Traavik)说，莱巴赫乐队给人的法西斯假象让其非常适合在这个威权主义国家表演。
“North Korea is portrayed in the West as the world’s most closed country, but in fact it is more open to the outside world than the prevailing media narrative suggests,” Mr. Traavik told the BBC.
特拉维克对BBC说，“朝鲜被西方描绘为世界上最封闭的国家，但实际上，它对外界的开放程度比媒体上流行的报道好得多。”
“Both the country and the band have been portrayed by some as fascist outcasts,” he said. “The truth is that both are misunderstood.”
“这个国家和这支乐队都被某些人作为法西斯主义的东西而摈弃，”他说。“事实是，这些都是误解。”
Mr. Traavik, who in 2012 uploaded a video of young North Korean accordion players performing A-ha’s “Take On Me” that became an Internet hit, described the Laibach tour as a first by a foreign band. (At least one other foreign ensemble has performed in North Korea, the New York Philharmonic, in 2008.)
2012年，特拉维克曾把朝鲜年轻手风琴手演奏A-HA乐队的“Take On Me”曲子的视频发到互联网上，引起了一时的轰动。他将莱巴赫乐队称为首支在朝鲜表演的外国乐队。 （至少还有一家外国乐团曾在朝鲜表演，那是2008年到访的纽约爱乐乐团。）
The Laibach performance drew attention from North Korea watchers, in part because of the group’s use of political imagery. In their Wednesday show, band members wore the Mao-style “people’s suit” favored by North Korean officials including Kim Jong-un, the country’s supreme leader.
莱巴赫乐队的表演引起了朝鲜观察家的注意，部分原因是乐队使用的政治意象。在他们周三的表演中，乐队成员穿了类似中山装的“人民服”，这是包括最高领导人金正恩在内的朝鲜官员喜欢穿的服装。
Foreign pop music is not entirely unknown in North Korea. Karaoke parlors in Pyongyang, especially those at hotels with foreign visitors, feature long lists of Western songs. A steady influx of Western and South Korean movies and music videos have also infiltrated North Korea, with CDs and computer memory sticks containing the prohibited materials available on the black market.
对朝鲜人来说，外国流行音乐并非完全陌生。平壤的卡拉OK里，尤其是那些向外国游客开放的酒店里的，都有长长的西方曲目可选。西方和韩国的电影和音乐视频也不断悄悄地涌入朝鲜，这里的黑市上能看到被禁影视和歌曲的CD和优盘。
Still, a performance by a Western rock band at a major concert hall in Pyongyang may have been a cultural shock for even those North Korean elites privileged enough to live in the showcase capital. Since taking power, Mr. Kim, who studied in Switzerland as a teenager, has tried to project the image of a fun-loving young leader open-minded enough to embrace some outside influence.
不过，西方摇滚乐队在平壤一个主要音乐厅的演出，对那些有足够特权能住在作为橱窗的首都的朝鲜精英们来说，也可能是一种文化冲击。金正恩十几岁时曾在瑞士学习，自从上台以来，他一直试图展示一种有情趣爱好的年轻领导人的形象，一种足以接受某些外界影响的豁达形象。
In 2012, he and his wife, who typically dresses in what look like Western designer suits, attended a domestic rock concert featuring young women in miniskirts, Mickey and Minnie Mouse characters and the theme song from the “Rocky” movies.
金正恩夫人经常穿着看起来像西方名牌的服装。2012年，他还和夫人一起观看了一场国内的摇滚音乐会，舞台上有身着迷你裙的年轻女性、扮演米老鼠及其女友米妮老鼠的演员，还表演了美国影片《洛奇》(Rocky)的主题歌。