SEOUL, South Korea — A 23-story apartment building that may have housed more than 90 families collapsed last week in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, a South Korean government official said Sunday after the North reported a “serious” accident at a construction site.
韩国首尔——韩国政府官员周日表示，朝鲜首都平壤一栋23层的公寓楼于上周坍塌，里面可能有90多家住户。朝鲜方面此前曾报道，某建筑工地发生了一起“严重”事故。
Earlier Sunday, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported that the accident occurred Tuesday in the Pyongchon district of Pyongyang, blaming “sloppy building” and “irresponsible supervision and control.” It said there were “human casualties” but did not give figures.
周日早些时候，朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)把周二发生在平壤平川区的这起事故归咎于“施工草率”和“监管不力”。报道称事故引发了“人员伤亡”，但没有给出具体数字。
An official at the Ministry of Unification in Seoul, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said Sunday that “a considerable number of people” might have died.
周日，首尔统一部(Ministry of Unification)的一名官员以匿名为条件表示，事故可能造成了“相当多的人”遇难。
The North Korean news agency said the government had organized a major rescue operation. It also reported that senior government and ruling Workers’ Party officials had apologized to bereaved families and district residents. In a rare admission of a government failure, Choe Pu-il, the minister of the people’s security, consoled the families, holding himself and his agency responsible for an “unpardonable crime,” according to the North Korean news media.
朝中社表示，政府已经组织了重大的救援行动。该社还报道称，政府高官和执政党劳动党的高官已经向遇难者家属和平川区居民致歉。据朝中社报道，人民保安部部长崔富日(Choe Pu-il)慰问了遇难者家属，称他和他执掌的部门应当为此次“不可原谅的罪行”负责，这种承认政府过失的举措相当罕见。
The South Korean official said that the building was under construction but that as many as 92 families were believed to be living there already. In the North, families often move into an apartment building before it is completed, the official said.
韩国官员表示，出事的公寓尚未完工，但据信已有多达92户家庭入住。这名官员说，在朝鲜，住户经常会在公寓楼竣工之前入住。
According to the North Korean news agency, the rescue operation ended Saturday. On Sunday, Rodong Sinmun, the main party newspaper, and other North Korean news media carried photographs showing senior officials bowing in apology — another rare gesture of public contrition for the North’s ruling elite — before what appeared to be a crowd of district residents gathered at a construction site.
根据朝中社的报道，救援行动已于周六结束。周日，劳动党主要报刊《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)和其他一些朝鲜新闻媒体刊载了高官鞠躬致歉的照片，致歉的对象似乎是聚集在某建筑工地的一群该区居民，这是朝鲜统治权贵公开作出悔悟姿态的又一罕例。
Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, “sat up all night, feeling painful after being told about the accident,” the North Korean report said, quoting Kim Su-gil, a senior party secretary in Pyongyang.
朝鲜援引平壤市劳动党第一书记金秀吉(Kim Su-gil)的话报道称，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)“听闻消息后彻夜未眠，深感悲痛”。
Since taking over as the country’s top leader after the death of his father in late 2011, Kim Jong-un has poured resources into revamping Pyongyang, the home to those most loyal to his government, setting off a building boom in the showpiece city. Other projects around the country include a ski resort and amusement parks.
2011年末，金正恩的父亲过世。金正恩随即接掌权力，成为朝鲜最高领导人，此后便投入大量资源翻新平壤，在这座样板城市掀起了建设热潮。对政府最忠心耿耿的人都住在平壤。分布于全国各地的其他建设项目还包括一个滑雪场和多个游乐场。
Although recent visitors to Pyongyang have testified to the city’s face-lift under Mr. Kim, outside analysts say the young leader has spent resources on projects that have yielded quick results, aimed largely at pleasing the country’s elites while much of the population has suffered chronic food shortages. Following the examples of his father and grandfather, Mr. Kim has pushed for the rapid completion of the construction projects, setting deadlines and exhorting soldiers and workers at the sites to finish their tasks ahead of time.
最近访问过平壤的一些人士称该市在金正恩的领导下换了新颜，但外部分析人士称，这名年轻领导人把资源花在了一些快速见效的项目上，很大程度是为了取悦朝鲜的权贵，与此同时，朝鲜的大量人口却面临着长期的食品短缺。以父亲和祖父为榜样的金正恩坚持要求相关建设项目迅速完工，亲自设定完工日期，并勉励现场的士兵和工人提前完成任务。
Although defectors from the North have reported frequent building accidents, it is rare for the government to report them. The South Korean news media speculated that the North’s swift reporting of the accident might indicate a high death toll. The last time North Korea acknowledged a major accident was in 2004 when an explosion at a train station in Ryongchon, near the border with China, killed or injured hundreds of people.
尽管脱北者报称朝鲜频频发生施工事故，但朝鲜政府很少通报相关事故。韩国新闻媒体推测，朝鲜迅速通报这起事故可能意味着遇难人员为数众多。朝鲜上次承认发生重大事故还是在2004年，当时，朝中边界附近龙川的一个火车站发生爆炸，死伤数百人。
Mr. Kim, whose father, Kim Jong-il, was considered more reclusive, has been casting himself as a hands-on leader who is more concerned about the people’s well-being. The North’s state-run news media often shows him meeting citizens and pointing out mistakes committed by the local government and party officials.
人们认为，金正恩不像父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)那么深居简出。他一直在把自己塑造成一个身体力行、更重视人民福祉的领导人。朝鲜的官方新闻媒体经常报道他会见民众及指出地方政府和党内官员所犯错误的活动。