Sally Hurd Smith, a veteran teacher, held up her brand-new tablet computer and shook it as she said, “I don’t want this thing to take over my classroom.” It was late June, a month before the first day of school. In a sixth-grade classroom in Greensboro, N.C., a dozen middle-school social-studies teachers were getting their second of three days of training on tablets that had been presented to them as a transformative educational tool. Every student and teacher in 18 of Guilford County’s 24 middle schools would receive one, 15,450 in all, to be used for class work, homework, educational games — just about everything, eventually.
从教多年的萨莉·赫德·史密斯(Sally Hurd Smith)拿起她的全新平板电脑，摇了摇说，“我可不想让这玩意儿接管我的课堂。”这是6月下旬，距新学期开学还有一个月。在北卡罗来纳州格林斯博罗一所学校的六年级教室里，十几位初中社会课教师正在接受平板电脑技能培训。这项为期三天，旨在让教师掌握这一变革性教育工具的培训活动已进行至第二天。在吉尔福德县的18所初中（该县共有24所初中），每位学生和老师，共计15450人，都将收到一部用来做课堂活动、家庭作业和教育游戏的平板电脑——最终，师生们将用它做一切事情。
There was, as educators say, a diverse range of learners in the room. Some were well on the way to mastering the tablet. Ben Porter, for instance, a third-year teacher who previously worked as an operations manager for a Cold Stone Creamery franchiser, was already adept at loading and sharing lesson materials and using the tablet’s classroom-management tools: quick polls, discussions, short-answer exercises, the function for randomly calling on a student and more. Other teachers, including a gray-bearded man who described himself as “technologically retarded,” had not progressed much further than turning it on.
用教育工作者的行话来说，这些学习者的水平参差不齐。有些老师几乎快要熟练掌握平板电脑。例如，本·波特(Ben Porter)能够娴熟地上传和共享课程资料，熟练运用平板电脑的课堂管理工具：快速调查、讨论、简答练习，以及随机呼叫一位学生的功能等等。今年是波特投身教育事业的第三个年头，他此前曾在一家酷圣石雪糕加盟店(Cold Stone Creamery)担任运营经理。其他老师差不多只会开机，一位胡子灰白的男学员说自己是“技术白痴”。
Smith, the most outspoken skeptic among the trainees, was not a Luddite — she uses her Web site to dispense assignments and readings to her students — but she worried about what might be lost in trying to funnel her teaching know-how through the tablet. “I just don’t like the idea of looking at a screen and not at the students,” she said.
作为学员中最直言不讳的质疑者，史密斯并不是一位反对技术进步的勒德(Luddite)分子——她用个人网站给学生布置作业，分发阅读材料。但让她忧心忡忡的是，在尝试着通过平板电脑传授知识的过程中，有一些东西或许会丧失。“我实在不喜欢注视着屏幕，而不是我的学生，”她说。
A couple of seats over from her, I was thinking the same thing. I teach college students, not middle schoolers, but I count on being able to read their faces and look them in the eye, and I would resist — O.K., freak out — if obliged to engage them through a screen in the classroom. And as a parent of middle schoolers, I would strenuously oppose any plan by their school to add so much screen time to my children’s days. The tablets, paid for in part by a $30 million grant from the federal Department of Education’s Race to the Top program, were created and sold by a company called Amplify, a New York-based division of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation, and they struck me as exemplifying several dubious American habits now ascendant: the overvaluing of technology and the undervaluing of people; the displacement of face-to-face interaction by virtual connection; the recasting of citizenship and inner life as a commodified data profile; the tendency to turn to the market to address social problems.
与她相隔几个座椅的我，也在思考相同的事情。我教的是大学生，不是中学生，但我也希望自己能够阅读他们的表情，直视他们的眼睛。倘若我必须得在课堂上通过屏幕与他们互动，我肯定会抗拒，甚至会发狂的。作为中学生的家长，我也极力反对学校为了给孩子们的学习生活增添大量“屏幕时间”而推行的任何计划。这些平板电脑的部分购置经费源自教育部“力争上游”计划(Race to the Top)的拨款，它们是由一家总部位于纽约、名为Amplify的公司开发并销售的，该公司隶属于鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的新闻集团(News Corporation)。在我看来，走进课堂的平板电脑充分体现了几个非常值得怀疑的美式习惯正在逐渐抬头：过于看重技术，低估人的价值；用虚拟连接替代面对面的互动交流；把公民身份和内心生活重铸为一份商品化的数据文件；倾向于使用市场手段解决社会问题。
Still, I came to Guilford County, I hoped, motivated by curiosity and discovery rather than kneejerk repudiation. I try to be on guard against misrecognizing complex change as simple decline, and I acknowledge that my tendency to dismiss the tech industry’s marketing might blind me to the Amplify tablet’s genuine potential as a teaching tool — and to major new developments reshaping not just the nature of schooling but also the world in which my kids are growing up.
不过，我希望，驱使我来到吉尔福德县的，是一颗渴望发现的好奇心，而不是下意识的抗拒心理。我不断地提醒自己，不要把复杂的变化想当然地简化为一种退步。我承认自己通常不太重视科技行业的营销手段，这种倾向或许会蒙蔽我的心灵，致使我无法看到Amplify平板电脑作为教学工具的真实潜力，也无法洞悉一些新趋势——这些趋势正在重塑的，不仅仅是教育的性质，还包括这个正在影响孩子们成长历程的世界。
The first time I met with Joel Klein, the chief executive of Amplify and an executive vice president of News Corporation, he checked his e-mail on his phone a lot, even as we talked about the concern that technology isolates rather than connects people. I pointed this out, and he, in turn, expressed wonder that I don’t even allow the use of laptops in my classroom.
我第一次见到Amplify公司首席执行官、新闻集团执行副总裁乔尔·克莱因(Joel Klein)的时候，他不停地查阅手机上的电子邮件，甚至当我们谈论技术正在离间、而不是连接人们这一问题时，他也没有停下来。我指出了这一点，而他反过来说，他也搞不懂为什么我甚至不允许学生在我的课堂上使用笔记本电脑。
We were discussing his frequently stated view that education is “ripe for disruption.” Entrepreneurs sound boldly unconventional when they talk about disrupting an industry, but they also sound as if they’re willing to break something in order to fix it — or just to profit from it. Klein, who was chancellor of New York City’s public schools from 2002 to 2011, begins from the premise that our schools are already broken.
他曾频繁提出教育“即将迎来颠覆性变革”的观点，我们就此进行了探讨。当企业家谈论如何颠覆一个行业的时候，他们听起来极具胆略，不落陈套，但给人的另一种感觉似乎是，企业家之所以愿意打破某种东西，恰恰是为了修补它，或者只是为了从中渔利。曾经在2002至2011年担任过纽约市公立学校学区总监的克莱因首先提出一项假定：美国的学校体系已经破裂了。
“K-12 isn’t working,” he said, “and we have to change the way we do it.” Citing global assessments that rank the United States well behind the leading countries in reading and math, he said: “Between 1970 and 2010 we doubled the amount of money we spent on education and the number of adults in the schools, but the results are just not there. Any system that poured in as much money as we did and made as little progress has a real problem. We keep trying to fix it by doing the same thing, only a little different and better. This is about a lot different and better.”
“从幼儿园到12年级(K-12)的学校教育目前运转不灵，”他说。“我们必须改变我们的教育方式。”他援引了几份显示美国学生的阅读和数学能力远远落后于领先国家的全球评估报告后，指出：“从1970年到2010年，我们的教育开支增加了一倍，学校教职员工的人数亦翻了一番，但殷殷期盼的成果并未出现。任何一个像我们这样倾注了如此多资金却鲜有进步的体系，肯定是有问题的。为了修复这种局面，我们一直在做同样的事情，但仅仅出现了些许变化，稍有改善。而我们正在讨论的，是一个亟需大变化、大改观的体系。”
He was talking about the curriculum and games being developed by Amplify, as well as its custom-built, open-platform Android tablet. Klein thinks the moment favors his enterprise. The new common-core standards, adopted so far by 45 states, define educational goals for schools — and present commercial opportunities for companies like Amplify. The initial price of a tablet has dropped to $199, including support and training, making it feasible for school systems to buy large numbers of them. And generational turnover in the teaching profession will help, too, as what Klein calls “digitally sophisticated millennials” replace retiring boomers.
除了Amplify公司量身定制，基于采用Android系统开放平台的平板电脑之外，他还详细介绍了该公司正在开发的课程和游戏。克莱因认为，目前的形势对他的企业非常有利。迄今为止已被45个州采用的共同核心新课标明确了学校的教育目标，同时也为诸如Amplify这样的公司提供了商机。一部平板电脑，包含技术支持和培训在内的起步价已降至199美元，这为学校系统大批量购买电子设备创造了条件。此外，教师队伍的世代更替——克莱恩所称的“精于技术的千禧世代”正在接替步入退休年龄的婴儿潮一代——也有助于平板电脑的推广。
When I asked Klein, who routinely characterizes current debates about education as “ideological, not evidence-based,” what evidence supports spending tax dollars on educational technology, he boiled it down to three things. First and most important was the power of “customizing.” Plenty of research does indeed show that an individual student will learn more if you can tailor the curriculum to match her learning style, pace and interests; the tablet, he said, will help teachers do that. Second, educators have not taken full advantage of students’ enthusiasm for the gadgetry that constitutes “an important part of their experience.” Lastly, teachers feel overwhelmed; they “need tools,” Klein said, to meet ever-increasing demands to show that their students are making progress.
克莱因时常把当下的教育大讨论描述为一场“基于意识形态而非证据”的纷争。我就此提出一个问题：哪些证据支持政府花费巨额纳税人资金购买教育技术？他回答称，这些证据可归结为三个方面。第一个，也是最重要的证据是“定制”的力量。大量的研究确实表明，如果你能够为一位学生量身定制与其学习风格、步骤和兴趣相匹配的课程，他或她将学到更多知识，而平板电脑将帮助老师做到这一点。其次，小型电子设备已成为孩子们“人生体验的重要组成部分”，而教育工作者还没有充分利用学生对此的热情。最后，教师有不堪重负之感，他们“需要工具”，以满足日益增长的要求——大家都想看到学生们正在取得进步那一幕。
Amplify has tested preliminary versions of its tablets and curriculum in a dozen small pilot programs, but Guilford County is its first paying customer. By next fall the company intends to have its products in middle schools across the country, with high schools and perhaps elementary schools to follow. Competition for this market is growing more intense. Major competitors — like Apple’s iPad — are scrambling to get in on the sales bonanza created by what educators call “1:1 technology programs,” those that provide a device to every student and teacher. And so potential customers — 99,000 K-12 schools spend $17 billion annually on instructional materials and technology — will be looking closely at Guilford County, a district with a modest budget and a mix of urban, suburban and rural sections that makes it a plausible proxy for school systems nationwide. They will want to see teachers’ enthusiasm for the tablets, as well as increased “time on task” and other signs of students’ greater engagement. Most important, of course, they’ll be looking for higher test scores in two or three years.
Amplify公司已经在十几个小试点项目中测试了其平板电脑和课程的初始版本，但吉尔福德县是第一个付费客户。该公司计划在明年秋天推动产品走进全美各地的初中校园，随后将进军高中，甚至小学课堂。这一市场的竞争程度日益加剧。以苹果公司(Apple)的iPad为代表的主要竞争对手正在争先恐后地涌入，唯恐错过这样一个由教育工作者所称的“1:1技术方案”（为每位学生和老师提供一部设备）造就的商业金矿。所以，潜在客户——9.9万所K-12学校每年花费170亿美元购置教学材料和技术设备——正在密切关注吉尔福德县。适度的预算额度，由城市、郊区和农村混合而成的辖区，使得这个县成为全美学校系统的一个可信代表。他们希望看到教师使用平板电脑的热情，显著增加的“任务型学习时间”，以及显示学生更积极地参与课堂活动的其他迹象。当然，更重要的是，他们希望看到，在两三年后，学生们将取得更高的考试分数。
When Klein says things like, “If you just stick a kid in front of a screen for eight hours and hope it works, it’s not going to work,” he means that the success of his tablet depends above all on how teachers exploit it. They might begin by transferring to it what they already do now — existing lessons, homework, tests — but it can only make the hoped-for difference in how and what students learn if teachers come up with new ways to use it. “If it’s not transformative,” Klein told me, “it’s not worth it.”
克莱因声称，“如果你只是让一个小孩在屏幕前坚持学习八个小时，那是行不通的，根本无法实现你的期望。”诸如此类的表述意味着，他的平板电脑能否成功，首先取决于教师运用这种设备的方式。在最初阶段，教师可能会把一些他们现在已经做的事情——现有的课程、作业和测试——转移至平板电脑，但唯有当教师构想出全新的应用方式时，平板电脑才能促使学生的学习方式和内容产生人们期望的改变。“如果平板电脑无法带来变革，它就不值得拥有，”克莱因这样说道。
Robin Britt, the Personalized Learning Environment Facilitator (PLEF) leading the all-day training session I sat in on, acknowledged the anxiety in the room but encouraged the trainees to focus on the possibilities. Britt made an ideal recruit for the corps of PLEFs, tech-savvy educators hired by the school district to help teachers adjust to the tablet. A native of Greensboro who previously taught at local middle and Montessori schools, he holds an M.B.A. and a J.D. from the University of North Carolina and also started a company that designs software for teachers. Youthful, dynamic, earnest, Britt radiated sympathy and confidence as he explained how technology could help transform not only their classrooms but also their profession.
我全程旁听了这一天的培训课程。课程主讲者、个性化学习环境引导者(PLEF)罗宾·布里特(Robin Britt)感受到了弥漫在教室里的焦虑情绪，但他鼓励学员们把注意力集中在种种可能性上面。布里特的资历足以使他成为一位理想的PLEF——学区聘请这些精通技术的教育工作者帮助老师适应平板电脑。他是一位土生土长的格林斯博罗人，曾经在当地中学和蒙特梭利学校(Montessori)教过书。拥有北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)工商管理硕士和法学博士学位的布里特还创办了一家教学软件公司。这位充满活力、满腔热忱的年轻人，饱含同情但不乏信心地解释称，技术不仅能够帮助老师改造他们的课堂，还将促使其职业产生革命性变化。
His “before” picture was the typical 19th-century classroom, the original template for our schools. He likened it to industrial shop floors designed for mass production: “People sitting in rows, all doing the same thing at the same time, not really connected to each other.” He contrasted that with a postindustrial workplace where temporary groupings of co-workers collaborate on tasks requiring intellectual, not physical capabilities. “We need a schoolhouse that prepares students to do that kind of work,” he said.
他给出的“应用前”图像，是典型的19世纪教室，也就是当下课堂的原型。他将其比做专为大批量生产设计的工业车间：“大家分排而坐，所有人都在同一时间做同一件事情，彼此并没有真正地连接在一起。”他指出，与其形成鲜明对比的是后工业化工作环境。在这种环境中，同事们需要临时分组，合作完成一些需要智慧而不是体能的任务。“我们需要一个为学生从事这类工作打好基础的校舍，”他说。
The key, he said, is personalized learning — breaking free of the mass-production model, tailoring the curriculum to the student and redesigning it around proven competence rather than accrued face time, so that each student can go at his own pace. “Now your job is not to dispense knowledge,” Britt told the trainees. “It’s to facilitate learning. No longer is the teacher the bottleneck between students and knowledge. Rather, the teacher architects the environment — in the classroom, on the tablet, online, everywhere.”
他说，课堂教育的关键在于个性化学习——摆脱大规模生产模式，为学生量身定制课程，围绕已证实的能力，而不是累计的面对面时间重新设计课程，从而使每位学生都能按照自己的步骤学习。布里特对学员说：“现在，你的工作不是传授知识，而是引导学习。教师不再是学生和知识之间的瓶颈。恰恰相反，教师是学习环境的创设者——在课堂上，在平板电脑上，在网上，在任何地方。”
In the “after” classroom Britt envisioned, some students might be working together on an assignment appropriate to their shared level of competence. Others would be ranging ahead on their own, catching up, exploring a special interest. A small group might be gathered around the teacher, who, having instantly scanned the responses to a short-answer exercise just given to the whole class on the tablet, decides to spend some extra time with those students still hazy about the lesson. Britt repeatedly made a fluid gathering-and-pushing gesture with both hands, as if demonstrating a basketball chest pass, as he said: “Then you move that group out, they’re off practicing to reinforce what you just taught them, and you pull together another group, or you go to an individual, then you flow them out to the next task. Gather and flow.”
根据布里特的设想，在“应用平板电脑之后”的课堂上，一些学生也许将一起学习适合其共有能力水平的功课。其他人将按照各自的步骤或先行一步，或急起直追，或探求某种特殊的兴趣。一小群学生或许会聚集在老师周围——在浏览了刚刚在平板电脑上发给全班学生的简答题的各种答案之后，老师可以当即决定多花些时间指导那些没有吃透课程的学生。布里特多次用双手做出流畅的聚拢和推送手势，好像是在展示篮球的胸前传球技术。“随后，你从那个小组撤出，让他们自行练习，巩固你刚刚传授的知识。接下来，你召集另一个小组，或者指导某一位学生，然后放手让他们从事下一个任务。聚集，然后放手。”
The Amplify tablet helps make personalization possible. It provides immediate feedback to the student and to the teacher, who can then make timely decisions about working with individuals and groups. Entire units of curriculum can be loaded on the tablet in advance or sent out as an instant update, accommodating students working at drastically different paces. An expanded set of tools for research, discussion, practice and demonstration of mastery allow students to come at their studies from various angles and let the teacher move into the role of a mentor who “meets each student where she is.” The teacher’s tablet also has an app blocker and monitoring functions that can see and control what’s happening on student tablets, and a one-touch classroom-control feature to lock their screens, replacing whatever was on them with an eye symbol and the phrase “Eyes on Teacher.”
Amplify平板电脑使个性化学习成为可能。它为学生和老师提供即时反馈，这样老师就能快速判定应该指导哪些学生和小组。整套课程可以提前上传至平板电脑，或者以实时更新的形式发送给学生，从而使学生以截然不同的步骤学习。一套用于研究、讨论、实践和展示掌握程度的扩展工具包，允许学生从不同的角度钻研功课，同时让老师扮演导师的角色，“出现在每位学生需要她的地方。”老师的平板电脑还有一个拦截应用、能够看到和控制学生平板电脑动向的监控功能，以及一键式课堂控制功能——这种功能可锁定学生屏幕，用眼睛符号和提示语“请看老师”覆盖学生屏幕上的所有内容。
Sally Hurd Smith appeared to be coming around. “It’s like I design the flow chart,” she said, “and the kids follow their own path through it.” She worried, though, that their greater technological sophistication would allow them to game the system.
萨莉·赫德·史密斯好像接受了这种新教法。“这就有点像我自己设计好了流程图，”她说，“学生们接着按他们自己的路线完成。”不过她还是有点疑虑，担心学生的技术水平玩得比老师更在行，因此能愚弄整个系统。
“Then have them teach you,” Ben Porter, the former operations manager, told her. “On the flow chart, put an assignment like ‘Create a lesson for me.’ ” Smith said, “I can do that.”
“那就让他们来教你啊，”做过运营经理的本·波特对她说。“在流程图上设置一个任务，比方说叫‘为我开一节课’，”史密斯说。“我看这样能行。”
It wasn’t just that Britt had made a persuasive case. Smith accepted that there was no avoiding the tablet or what it represents. During a lunch break, she told me: “As an older teacher, when all this stuff started coming out, I fought it. You know: ‘This is the new fad, and in two years there’s another.’ ” Good teachers, she felt, already get the “data” that matter just by paying attention to their students, and they reach children with all kinds of learning styles. But the more Smith learned about the tablet and the kind of teaching it made possible, the more she thought that this time was different. “And I realized that if I don’t get with this, it’s going to leave me behind,” she said.
史密斯承认，平板电脑及其代表的教学理念是不可避免的大势所在，这不仅仅是因为布里特此前的一番阐述极具说服力。在午休期间，她告诉我： “作为一名老教师，当所有这些东西开始冒出来的时候，我总是下意识地抗拒。你知道：‘这是一股新潮流，两年后没准会流行另一个新玩意儿。’”她觉得，好教师仅仅通过关注学生，就已经获得了重要的“数据”，然后针对学习风格迥异的学生因材施教。但史密斯对平板电脑，以及应用这种设备有可能实现的教学方式了解得越多，她就越发认为，这一次不同于往昔。“我意识到，如果我掌握不了这种设备，我就会落伍，”她说。
When I asked Arne Duncan, the U. S. secretary of education, about the increasing amounts of money being spent by school systems on educational technology, he said: “We spend precious taxpayer money now on textbooks, buses, milk, all kinds of things. The real question is, ‘How do you spend more effectively?’ ” Electronic readers could make textbooks better and cheaper, he said. “As a country we spend $7 billion to $8 billion a year on textbooks. My simple question is, ‘Why?’ ” Referring to the six-year textbook-adoption cycle some states still use, Duncan said, “That’s a Neanderthal system.”
当我询问美国教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)对学校系统用越来越多的资金购置教育技术这一现象的看法时，他说道：“我们现在动用宝贵的纳税人资金购买教科书、校车、牛奶等五花八门的东西。真正的问题是，‘怎样花钱才更有效？’”电子阅读器可以改善教科书的质量，并降低成本，他说。“美国每年花在教科书上的资金共计70亿到80亿美元。一个简单的问题是，‘为什么要花这么多钱？’”在提到一些州依然采用的六年更换教科书周期时，邓肯表示：“这是一套穴居时代才有的制度安排。”
He continued: “To keep doing the same thing we’ve been doing for the past hundred years — everybody working on the same thing at the same time, not based on competency. . . .” He sighed and let the thought trail off, then added his standard reminder that we must equip our students to compete with counterparts in India and China. He did acknowledge, though, that the fear of falling behind puts added pressure on school systems to do something, anything, which then makes them more vulnerable to rushed decisions and to peddlers of magic bullets. “There are a lot of hucksters out there,” he said.
“我们现在依然在做过去100年来一直在做的事情——每个人在同一时间做同一件事情，不是基于其能力……”他叹了口气，让情绪渐渐缓和下来，接着老生常谈提醒道，我们必须让美国学生具备与印度和中国学生相抗衡的能力。但他的确承认，唯恐落后的心理给学校系统增添了额外压力，迫使他们不得不采取某种措施。在这种情况下，他们更容易做出仓促的决定，并且极易受到兜售灵丹妙药的商贩的蛊惑。“想分一杯羹的小商贩太多了，”他说。
Duncan, whose longtime allies include Joel Klein, Bill Gates and other apostles of disruption, has a record of supporting reforms that increase the role of market forces — choice, competition, the profit motive — in education. He wants private enterprises vying to make money by providing innovative educational products and services, and sees his role as “taking to scale the best practices” that emerge from this contest.
邓肯的长期盟友包括乔尔·克莱因、比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)和渴望颠覆美国教育现状的其他使徒。长期以来，他一直支持各类旨在增强市场力量作用——自由选择、竞争和利润动机——的教育改革。他希望私人企业竞相提供创新性教育产品和服务，并由此赚到真金白银。在邓肯看来，他的角色就是“传播从这种竞争中涌现出的最佳教育实践”。
There are reasons to be skeptical about the invisible hand’s mystic touch. Educational technology opens new avenues for marketers to reach students in a school setting, and links between screen time and childhood obesity raise public health concerns. Despite all the research showing that the educational benefits of new technology depend on good teaching, it can be easier to find money for cool new gadgets than for teachers. The Los Angeles school district, for instance, cut costs in recent years by laying off thousands of teachers yet is now using bonds to finance the spending of $500 million on iPads. And privacy issues can arise because school systems lack the experience to negotiate data agreements that anticipate all the ways technology companies could put student information to use.
有理由质疑无形之手的魔力。教育技术为营销人员开辟了一条进入校园、触及学生的新渠道；“屏幕时间”和儿童肥胖之间的联系成为了一个备受关注的公共卫生问题。尽管所有的研究均显示，新技术能否起效与老师的好坏有莫大关系，但相较于聘请老师，政府似乎更容易找到购置超酷新玩意的资金。例如，最近几年为削减成本而解雇了数千名老师的洛杉矶学区，却花了5亿美元债券资金购买iPad。此外，教育技术进入校园还可能引发隐私问题，因为公立学校系统往往缺乏洽谈数据协定的经验，无法预估科技公司有可能利用学生信息的所有方式。
“When you’re talking about Rupert Murdoch and his empire,” says Josh Golin, the associate director at the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, “there are a number of ways that data could be valuable to his companies beyond instruction.” Klein, who has grown used to addressing privacy concerns, says flatly, “The data belongs to the district.” The agreement with Guilford County, he notes, requires Amplify to secure the district’s permission if it wants to use any of that data — in anonymized form — to improve its products. “The more you rely on big data to improve the human experience, the more risk there is,” Klein says. “But we shouldn’t be able to freelance with the data. I’m not Amazon. The only reason I need to know about you is the school district needs me to know these kids are struggling with X and these others with Y.”
儿童权益维护团体“无商业化童年运动”(Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood)副总监乔希·戈林(Josh Golin)声称：“对于鲁珀特·默多克和他的帝国来说，这些数据可能具有多方面的价值，并不仅仅局限于他们的教育业务。”惯于应对隐私问题的克莱因直截了当地表示：“这些数据归学区所有。”他指出，根据Amplify公司与吉尔福德县达成的协议，如果该公司想利用这些匿名数据改进其产品，它必须首先获得学区的许可。“你越依赖大数据来改善人类的体验，你就将面临越多的风险，”克莱因表示。“但我们不能自由使用这些数据，我们不是亚马逊(Amazon)。我需要了解这些孩子的唯一理由是，学区需要我知道哪些孩子搞不清楚这个问题，哪些学生理解不了那个问题。”
Apart from privacy issues, Golin says, it’s still not clear that cutting-edge educational technology justifies its cost with results. Companies with vested interests are pitching themselves as the solution to the country’s educational problems, he says, “but we don’t have research proving it’s true.”
除了隐私问题外，戈林表示，目前尚不清楚的是，尖端教育技术是否产生了足以证明其成本合理性的结果。拥有既得利益的公司自诩为美国教育问题的终结者，“但我们还没有看到证实这一论断的研究成果，”他说。
I ran that criticism by Greg Anrig, vice president of policy and programs at the Century Foundation and the author of “Beyond the Education Wars: Evidence That Collaboration Builds Effective Schools.” The research on successful schools and good teaching, he said, highlights the importance of relationships among the people in a school: administrators and teachers and students. “None of these studies identify technology as decisive.” Where technology makes a difference, it tends to do so in places with a strong organization dedicated to improving teaching and where students closely engage with teachers and one another. “A device that enhances such interactions is good,” Anrig said. “But kids focused on the device, isolated, cuts into that.”
世纪基金会(Century Foundation)政策和项目事务副总裁、《超越教育战争：协作构建有效能学校的证据》(Beyond the Education Wars: Evidence That Collaboration Builds Effective Schools)一书作者格雷格·安里格(Greg Anrig)提出过类似的批评。他说，针对成功学校和好教学方式的研究彰显出学校人际关系，即行政人员、教师和学生之间关系的重要性。“所有这些研究都没有确认技术的决定性作用。”技术发挥威力的情况往往出现在强大的组织中，这些机构往往致力于改善教学，而且学生与其他师生接触密切。“有助于加强这种互动的设备，就是好设备，”安里格说。“但如果孩子们仅仅专注于设备，互相不理不睬，这种互动性就将大大减弱。”
With that caveat, Anrig was enthusiastic about the personalization made possible by technology like Amplify’s tablet. That qualified enthusiasm is shared by Jonathan Supovitz, director of the University of Pennsylvania’s Consortium for Policy Research in Education, who stresses that “individualizing instruction does lead to better outcomes — if teachers can manage the environment to make that happen.” Among other things, teachers will need better tools for processing and interpreting all the additional information they have to handle. “They used to have too little data from students,” Supovitz says, “and now they’re going to get too much, and they need to be ready.”
尽管安里格发出了这样的告诫，因Amplify平板电脑等技术而成为可能的个性化学习依然让他产生了兴趣。与之相似，宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)教育政策研究联盟(Consortium for Policy Research in Education)主任乔纳森·苏博维奇(Jonathan Supovitz)也给予了这种设备有保留的支持。他强调指出，“因材施教确实带来了更好的结果——如果教师能够管理环境，从而促使这一幕发生的话。”教师们基于各种原因，需要使用更好的工具，其中一个原因是要处理和解释自己不得不应对的所有额外信息。“他们过去从学生身上获得的数据太少了。现在，他们将获得海量数据，需要做好准备，”苏博维奇说。
Justin Leites, Amplify’s vice president in charge of games, works in the company’s Brooklyn offices, in a converted paper-goods factory with open-plan spaces and high ceilings — a model of the postindustrial workplace. Its 652 employees tend toward youth, body art and fixed-gear bikes, which are stored during the day in hanging racks. When I visited Leites in July, the whiteboards lining the walls of his office were covered with lists and diagrams in black, brown, green and purple marker. Directly behind his desk chair, framed by converging arrows in all four colors, was written “DATA,” and below, “That’s what I want!”
Amplify公司负责游戏业务的副总裁贾斯汀·莱特斯(Justin Leites)在该公司布鲁克林办事处工作。这间办事处由一家纸制品工厂改造而成，开放式空间和高高的天花板的室内格局，堪称后工业化工作场所的典范。652名员工多为年轻人，在白天，人体艺术品和固定齿轮自行车被存储在挂架上。我在7月份拜访莱特斯的时候，其办公室墙壁的白板上布满了用黑色、棕色、绿色和紫色记号笔写下的清单和图表。在他的办公椅正后方，写着一个由所有这四种颜色描绘的箭头汇聚而成的单词“数据”，下面还有一行字：“这就是我想要的东西！”
Amplify’s variety of reading, math and science games, like its curriculum, are calibrated to the national standards, but the games are meant to feel like free play, not more schooling. The objective is to recapture for educationally worthwhile purposes some of the seven-plus hours per day the average middle schooler spends gazing at a screen outside of school. The logic of games lines up well with personalized learning. Sophisticated commercial games already set the standard in responsiveness to what a player does, and the convention of arranging a game world as a series of increasingly difficult challenges fits the sequencing of curriculum. When you conquer the fractions level, you move up to the algebra level.
像它的课程一样，Amplify公司开发的各种阅读、数学和科学游戏以国家标准为指针，但它们更像是自由游戏，而不是延伸的学校教育。其目标是，从中学生每天放学后花在凝视屏幕上的七个多小时中夺回一些时间，用来实现一些教育成果。这些游戏的逻辑与个性化学习一脉相承。复杂的商业游戏已经就如何对玩家行为作出反应设定了标准；基于一系列难度越来越高的挑战设置一个游戏世界的惯例，也非常契合课程的难度序列。在征服分数这个级别之后，你就会上升至代数层级。
Amplify’s games are still at the pilot stage, but a year from now the company will be offering them for sale to schools, and they will contribute to the feedback students and teachers get from their devices. In the near future, Leites said, the flow of data will expand enormously as the costs of better tablet cameras, faster connections and other features come down. Soon, games that know what a student has read (the tablet’s library will contain 1,000 books) will be able to strategically sprinkle a particular word in his path based on how many times the research says you need to see a new word in order to learn it. In a few years, according to Leites, advances like “gaze tracking” and measurement of pupil dilation “will revolutionize” the gauging of cognitive response by making it possible to determine exactly what students are reacting to on the screen.
Amplify游戏仍然处于试点阶段，但从现在起一年内，该公司将面向学校销售这些游戏，它们将有助于学生和老师从其设备中获得反馈信息。莱特斯表示，在不久的将来，随着更好的平板电脑摄像头、更快的连接和其他功能的成本不断下降，数据流将急剧膨胀。用不了多久，掌握一位学生阅读记录（这种平板电脑的图书馆将收录1000本书）的游戏，将能够基于研究成果——你需要看一个新词多少次才能掌握它——战略性地在其阅读路径上散置某一特定词汇。莱特斯声称，在几年后，诸如“视线跟踪”和测量瞳孔扩张这类技术进步，将有可能确定学生对屏幕内容的反应，从而促使认知反应的计量发生“革命性变化”。
This growing stream of information, which can be analyzed down to individual keystrokes, yields a picture that will eventually progress in complexity from, say, a list of words a student looks up to a profile of metacognitive skills — like the ability to concentrate — and in time to a full-blown portrait of a developing mind. In theory, each student will generate the intellectual equivalent of a fantastically detailed medical chart.
这种日益增长的信息流（研究人员甚至能够详细分析学生的每次击键行为）产生了一幅最终将变得愈来愈复杂的图景——从一位学生查阅的单词列表，到扼要描述元认知技能（比如聚精会神的能力），再到全面描绘一个不断发展的心智。在理论上，每位学生将产生一个极其详细，相当于病历卡的智力档案。
My antipathy to this kind of faith in big data tended to abate whenever I visited Amplify’s Brooklyn building, which is full of smart, well-intentioned people doing interesting things. That was especially the case when I spoke with Leites, a former doctoral student in philosophy at Yale, staff member in Clinton’s White House and speechwriter for Madeleine Albright and Strobe Talbott.
我向来厌恶这种大数据崇拜，但每当我参观Amplify公司位于布鲁克林的办公楼，看到一群充满智慧和善意的年轻人正在做有趣的事情，特别是当我跟莱特斯交谈的时候，这种厌恶感就趋于减弱。作为前耶鲁大学(Yale)哲学博士生，莱特斯在克林顿政府担任过白宫工作人员，还曾经是马德琳·奥尔布赖特(Madeleine Albright)和斯特普·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)的演讲稿撰写人。
One afternoon, we watched a half-dozen students from nearby schools eat chips and test games on Amplify tablets. The raptly tender way they touched, pinched and stroked the screens awoke in me an urge to yank the gadgets and junk food out of their hands and lead them to a library or a good climbing tree. Leites and I had been talking about the achievement gap, much of which can be traced to what happens out of school — the difference between haves and have-nots in access to private lessons, academically enriching summer experiences and the like. Glancing over at the white, black and brown girls and boys fused to their screens, Leites said: “Think of school as a not very good game. You pretty much know at the beginning which kids are going to come out on top at the end, and they do. But this” — the educational games, the 24/7 access to the tablet’s many resources, the whole premise of technology-enabled personalization — “is among other things a way to make that game more meaningful and rewarding for more people.”
一天下午，我们观看来自附近学校的六、七个学生一边吃炸薯条，一边在Amplify平板电脑上测试游戏。一看到他们触摸、捏拧和敲击屏幕时那种全神贯注，小心翼翼的模样，我就恨不得从他们手中夺走这些电子设备和垃圾食品，引领他们去一家图书馆，或者一颗适宜攀爬的树木。莱特斯和我当时正在谈论学生的成绩差距问题，其中相当一部分原因可追溯至学生们的校外经历——在参加辅导课，富于学术意味的暑期活动等诸多方面，来自富裕和贫穷家庭的孩子存在明显差异。瞥了一眼这些与各自的屏幕融为一体，皮肤呈白色、黑色和棕色的男孩和女孩，莱特斯说：“众所周知，上学并不是一场非常公平的竞赛。你几乎从一开始就知道，哪些孩子的成绩最终将名列前茅，结果往往果真如此。但这个东西”——教育游戏，随时随地在平板电脑上获取许多资源，由技术支持的个性化学习的整个前提——“除了其他用途外，还能够让这场竞赛对更多人变得更有意义，更有收获。”
For data to work its magic, a student has to generate the necessary information by doing everything on the tablet. That seems like an awful lot of screen time to me, but suspecting that the surge of horror I feel at that prospect may be both irrational and out of step with the times, I checked with some experts.
要让数据发挥其魔力，一位学生必须在平板电脑上做一切事情，以生成必需的信息。于我而言，这看上去需要大量令人惊悚的屏幕时间，但我怀疑，我对这种前景产生的恐惧感或许是不够理性的，而且有可能与时代脱节，于是我咨询了一些专家的看法。
It turns out that there isn’t yet much solid research on the effects of screen time on schoolchildren, but that will soon change. Larry Rosen, a research psychologist at California State University, Dominguez Hills, and an expert on education and technology, told me: “It’s starting to gear up because it’s being clamored for by the educators. They’re saying, ‘Now that we’re doing this, what does this do to our kids?’ ”
事实证明，就屏幕时间对学生的影响而言，目前并不存在大量坚实的研究成果，但这种状况很快就将发生变化。加州州立大学多明格斯山分校(California State University, Dominguez Hills)研究心理学家，教育和技术专家拉里·罗森(Larry Rosen)告诉我：“这类研究正在开始加速，因为教育工作者正在大声呼吁。他们纷纷询问一个问题，‘我们正在做的事情将对孩子产生什么影响？’”
Rosen’s own studies of attention and multitasking show that pre-teenagers and young adults focus for no more than five minutes before becoming distracted. “There’s also a concern,” he said, “that technology tends to overstimulate your brain,” disturbing sleep cycles and preventing the mind from going into what psychologists call the Default Mode Network — the highly creative state you enter when daydreaming or between waking and sleep. And overstimulation can just plain hurt. Erika Gutscher, who teaches science at a year-round school in East Cary, N.C., that has been piloting the Amplify tablet since March, reports that she and her students love the tablets but get headaches if they use them too much.
罗森自己针对注意力和多重任务处理的研究显示，9至12岁的孩子和年轻人不超过5分钟就会走神。他说：“还有一个问题是，技术往往会过度刺激你的大脑，”扰乱睡眠周期，阻止头脑进入心理学家所称的默认模式网络(Default Mode Network)——当你空想或者处于清醒和睡眠之间的时候，你就会进入这种极富创意的状态。过度刺激只会造成伤害。自今年3月份以来，东卡罗莱纳州东卡里市一所全年制学校的科学老师埃里卡·古契(Erika Gutscher)一直在试用Amplify平板电脑。她报告称，她和学生都非常喜欢应用平板电脑，但如果过多使用，他们就感到头痛不已。
Then there are concerns about the effect of screen time on how children learn to be members of a human community. Jay Giedd, a neuroscientist at the National Institute of Mental Health who specializes in the study of adolescents, describes the tablet’s ability to provide instant feedback as “particularly brain-friendly” — but, he says, “a lot of our brain activity is devoted to social interaction with other people, and an enormous amount of the change in the adolescent brain is about socialization. What if we’re inadvertently interfering with development in ways that will show up in 20 years in ways we didn’t expect?”
此外，人们还担心过多的屏幕时间或将妨碍孩子学会如何成为人类社会的一员。美国国家心理健康研究院(National Institute of Mental Health)专门研究青少年神经系统的科学家杰伊·吉德(Jay Giedd)认为，平板电脑提供即时反馈的能力“特别容易被大脑接受”，但他随即声称：“许多大脑活动专门用于人际社交，青少年大脑的大量变化都与社交活动有关。假如我们无意中以某些未曾想到的方式干涉了将在20年后显现后果的大脑发展方式，那将会怎样呢？”
Sherry Turkle, an M.I.T. professor and a prominent Cassandra who writes about the unanticipated consequences of our immersion in electronic technology, described some aspects of tablets in the classroom to me as “the dystopian presented as the utopian.” She said, “We become smitten with the idea that there will be technological solutions to these knotty problems with education, but it happens over and over again that we stop talking to kids.” That’s the root of what she calls “the crisis in the ability to talk.” High-school teachers are already complaining, she said, that their students “are fixed on programs that give the right answer, and they’re losing the notion of talking and listening to each other, skills that middle school is supposed to teach.”
作为一位杰出的预言家，麻省理工学院(MIT)教授雪莉·特克(Sherry Turkle)时常撰文评述过度沉浸于电子技术带来的令人意想不到的后果。她对我说，课堂上的平板电脑在某些方面类似于“以乌托邦形式呈现的反乌托邦”。她说：“我们开始沉迷于一种想法，即我们将采用技术手段终结这些棘手的教育问题，但再三出现的情形是，我们不再跟孩子们交谈了。”这就是她所称的“说话能力危机”的根源。她说，一些高中教师已经开始抱怨，他们的学生“紧盯着给出正确答案的方案，他们正在丧失相互沟通和倾听的概念，而这些理应是中学应该传授的技能。”
I told her stories from Amplify’s pilot programs about previously marginal, quiet students blossoming: the boy in Georgia whose tablet-troubleshooting skills made him popular; the tall girl in Connecticut who blew away her classmates with an essay about what it’s like to be 5-foot-11 in middle school. The tablet also includes features like discussion groups that let students engage one another directly. “There’s a reason they call them ‘discussion groups’ and not ‘conversations,’ ” Turkle said. “You learn how to broadcast, which is not the same thing as what you and I are doing now. Posting strong opinions isn’t a conversation.”
我给她讲述了一些来自Amplify试点项目的故事，一些此前处于班级边缘位置，不太爱说话的学生正在展露天分，茁壮成长。比如，擅长排除平板电脑故障的技能，使得乔治亚州一位男孩成了班里的宠儿；在康涅狄格州，一名高个子女生撰写了一篇让同学赞叹不已的作文，这篇文章叙述了她作为一位身高5英尺11英寸（合1.80米）的初中生的切身感受。此外，平板电脑还可以包括各种功能，比如创建讨论小组，鼓励学生互相直接接触。“他们将其称为‘讨论小组’，而不是‘对话’，这是有道理的，”特克教授说。“孩子们学的是如何播送，这跟你我现在正在做的事情不是一码事。发布强有力的观点，这不是对话。”
Responding to her criticisms, Joel Klein said, “This is an important issue, and she’s obviously an important mind at work.” When I confessed to my own reaction to students staring at screens, he said, “I understand that; I have some of that same emotional response.” His near-affectless delivery made it hard to tell whether he was dismissing, simply acknowledging or genuinely sympathizing with these points of view. He did go on to say that he wouldn’t put fourth graders in a MOOC — a massive open online course — and that he would exercise great restraint in introducing technology into a kindergarten classroom.
针对她的这些批评，乔尔·克莱因回应称：“这是一个重要问题，她的这种观点显然很重要。”我向他坦露了我自己对学生一直盯着屏幕那种景象的反应，“我明白，我也有一些类似的情绪反应，”他说。这种几近冷酷的说辞让我很难判断，他究竟是不予理会，简短承认，抑或真正同情这些观点。不过克莱因的确进一步表示，他不会让四年级学生上大型开放式网络课程(MOOC)，而且在给幼儿园课堂引进技术时，他一定会非常克制。
But he wasn’t conceding much ground. “The world is living in this tech-driven experience,” he said. “Maybe we all should be concerned about it, but think about how empowering it’s been, and the notion that a device is going to make us less good at producing citizens runs counter to how democratizing this technology is.”
但他并未做太大让步。“整个世界正在经历这样一种由技术驱动的体验，”他说。“这种状况或许应该引起我们每个人的关切，但我们需要意识到，技术正在驱动日新月异的改变，那种认为一种设备将使得我们不那么善于生产公民的观点，显然有悖于这种技术正在催生的民主化效应。”
In a room down the hall from Robin Britt’s social-studies teachers, a group of English teachers appeared to have fallen into a post-lunch professional-development coma, brought on by too many videos and too much jargon. Across the hall, math teachers were methodically proceeding with minimal discussion through the checklist of tablet skills. Only Britt’s group, led by a virtuoso, was wrestling with the big questions that resonated in the details of the tablet training. As he told them more than once, “It’s the teacher, not the technology.”
在罗宾·布里特的社会课老师所在教室另一侧，房间里的一组英语老师拜太多的视频和术语所赐，似乎陷入了午餐后半昏迷状态。在走廊对面，数学老师正在有条不紊地学习平板电脑的技能清单，不过甚少有人发起讨论。只有布里特指导的这组老师，在这样一位大师的引领下，正在努力解决一些大家都有共鸣的与平板电脑培训细节相关的大问题。他不止一次地对这些老师说：“关键在于老师，而不是技术。”
Asked how to handle students goofing off on the tablet in class, Britt reviewed the mechanics of the app blocker. “But,” he added, “that’s a case where maybe you want to use proximity instead.” Proximity? A couple of the trainees started scanning their tablets’ apps in the hope of finding that feature. Maybe it controlled a miniature drone. But Britt moved up the row of desks to stand right next to the questioner and said to everyone: “You already know how to do this. You keep going with the lesson but you move closer, you show him you can see what he’s doing.” While talking, he gave the questioner a look I remember well from middle school, the one that says, Both you and I will be much happier if you stop doing that before I have to interrupt the lesson to make the choice for you. “You don’t need a technological solution for everything,” Britt said. “All that stuff you already know about teaching still works, and you need it more than ever.”
当被问及如何应对上课期间在平板电脑上偷懒耍滑的学生时，布里特再次阐述了拦截应用的作用。“但是，”他补充说，“在这种情形下，你或许会转而选择靠近。”靠近？几位学员开始浏览其平板电脑的应用程序，希望找到这项功能。也许这项应用控制着一架微型无人机。但布里特向前移动，穿过一排桌椅，径直站在提问者旁边，对大家说：“你已经知道如何做到这一点。在继续授课的同时，你走近某位无所事事的学生，向他表明，你能够看到他正在做的事情。”说这番话时，他看了那位提问者一眼，那种眼神让我想起了我的中学老师——其寓意是，如果你在我被迫暂停授课并替你做出选择之前，端正一下学习态度，你和我都将愉快得多。“并不是每件事情都需要一个技术解决方案，”布里特说。“你已经掌握的所有教学技能依然有效，而且你现在比以往任何时候都更加需要这些技能。”
To get the most out of educational technology, teachers must combine those traditional classroom skills with new ones. And their repertoires will have to expand as the tablet’s powers grow. This fall, mastery might mean giving a quick quiz, then breaking up the students on the fly into groups based on their answers and sending each group a different exercise from the teacher’s tablet. In not too many years, it might mean using sophisticated pattern-recognizing algorithms to analyze data from homework, games, leisure reading, social media and biometric indicators to determine that one student should be guided to an interactive simulation of coral-reef ecology, another to an essay exercise built around a customized set of coral-reef-related vocabulary words and concepts, and others to something else.
为了最大程度地利用教育技术，老师必须把传统的课堂教学技巧与新技能结合在一起。随着平板电脑的功能不断增长，他们的“常备剧目”将不得不扩充。今年秋天，掌握平板电脑或许意味着进行一次快速测试，然后基于学生的答案，将他们分为若干个小组，并从老师的平板电脑上为各组发送不同的练习。过不了几年，熟练掌握可能意味着使用复杂的模式识别算法来分析源自家庭作业、游戏、休闲阅读、社交媒体和生物计量指标的数据，以确定哪一位学生应该去观察以交互式模拟形式呈现的珊瑚礁生态学，哪一位学生应该围绕一组与珊瑚礁相关的自定义词汇和概念撰写一篇作文，哪些学生应该做别的事情。
Throughout the training day, Britt addressed the deep worry, voiced by Sally Hurd Smith and others, that technology can undercut the connection to the student that makes teaching feel rewarding and worthwhile. “Once you develop familiarity with this kind of teaching and your students catch on to the routines, you find you can actually give each student a lot more of yourself,” Britt said. “Instead of talking at a group where one-third are bored and one-third are lost, I can have everybody working at their level, and I have time to give the love to you and then you and you.” He pointed around the room at individuals, dispensing the force of his conviction in concentrated bursts.
在培训那天，布里特从始至终都在努力打消萨莉·赫德·史密斯和其他学员的深切忧虑：技术有可能削弱老师和学生之间的联系——正是这种联系，让老师觉得教学活动是有益的，值得做的。“一旦你逐渐熟悉了这种教学方式，你的学生跟上了日常教学活动，你就将发现，你其实可以给予每位学生更大的关注，”布里特说。“我们不再面对一群三分之一感到厌倦，三分之一迷惑不解的学生，我可以让每个人按照各自的能力层次学习，我有时间把这份关爱给你，你和你。”他指着几个坐在教室不同方位的学员，似乎是在分配他集中爆发的信念力量。
Someone asked Britt, who had used laptops and Kindles in his classroom for years, how long it took him to develop those teaching routines. “Three years to really get it,” he said. In a month, the trainees would begin the real work of adjusting to the new ways, day by day in the classroom. Another PLEF, Wenalyn Bell, told her group, “It’s like building a plane while it’s flying.”
多年来，布里特一直在课堂上使用笔记本电脑和Kindle阅读器，有人问他，开发这些日常教学环节花费了他多长时间。“真正掌握花了三年时间，”他说。一个月后，学员们将开始真正在课堂上应用这些全新的教学方式，日复一日地慢慢适应。另一位PLEF维娜琳·贝尔(Wenalyn Bell)对她的学员说，“这就好像是在建造一架正在航行的飞机。”
At my second interview with Joel Klein, during which he barely looked at his smartphone at all, I asked if he felt technology was essential to improving American education or if we might be better off committing our resources otherwise. “We’ve spent so much on things that haven’t worked,” he said, making a list that included underused computers as well as obsolete textbooks, useless layers of bureaucracy and smaller class sizes. “We should have spent that money on preparing higher-quality teachers.” So there was at least one other way to do it a lot different and better.
我第二次采访乔尔·克莱因时，他几乎没有看他的智能手机。我问克莱因他是否觉得技术对于改善美国教育至关重要，采用其他方式使用这些资源是否将取得更好的效果。他回答道：“我们已经把太多资金花在了一些根本不起作用的事情上，”并列举了一系列例证，包括过时的教科书、百无一用的官僚层级、小班授课，以及未充分利用的计算机。“我们本应该用这笔钱培养具备更高资质的老师。”因此，至少还有一种方式可以显著改善课堂教育。
“Take Finland,” Klein continued, citing everyone’s favorite example of a country that puts its money on excellent teachers, not technology, and routinely finishes at the top in international assessments. “There’s a high barrier for entry into the teaching profession,” the kind that lets in the Robin Britts and keeps out weaker aspirants. Teachers there are also well paid, held in high esteem and trusted to get results without being forced to teach to the test. But America’s educational system is a lot bigger, messier, less centralized and more focused on market-based solutions than Finland’s. Also, our greater income inequality and thinner social safety net make for much wider variation in student performance, and a toxic political climate has encouraged our traditional low regard for teachers to flower into outright contempt.
“就以芬兰为例，”克莱因进一步指出，作为众人喜欢的教育典范，芬兰把钱花在优秀老师，而不是技术身上，并长期位居国际教育评估报告的榜首位置。“教师这个职业的进入壁垒非常高，”布里特们能够跨过这道门槛，而资质较弱的有志者则会被拒之门外。在芬兰，教师的薪酬也非常丰厚，他们备受尊重和信任，不会被迫进行应试教育。但相较于芬兰，美国的教育体系要大得多，更加混杂，不那么集权化，并且更侧重于以市场为基础的解决方案。此外，巨大的收入差距和稀薄的社会保障体系，导致美国学生的表现呈现更广泛的差异。在一种有毒的政治气候的怂恿下，传统上对教师的轻视已经恶化为彻头彻尾的蔑视。
Still, if everyone agrees that good teachers make all the difference, wouldn’t it make more sense to devote our resources to strengthening the teaching profession with better recruitment, training, support and pay? It seems misguided to try to improve the process of learning by putting an expensive tool in the hands of teachers we otherwise treat like the poor relations of the high-tech whiz kids who design the tool.
不过，如果大家都认为好老师关系重大，把宝贵的资源用在教师身上，比如招聘更好的教师，加大培训和支持力度，并提高教师待遇，采取这些旨在加强教师职业的措施不是更有意义吗？现在，我们正在把一件昂贵的工具放在老师手中（在其他方面，我们似乎把他们看做设计这种工具的高科技神童的穷亲戚），以这种方式改善学习过程似乎是误入歧途。
Are our overwhelmed, besieged, haphazardly recruited, variably trained, underpaid, not-so-elite teachers, in fact, the potential weak link in Amplify’s bid to disrupt American schooling? Klein said that we have 3.5 million elementary- and middle-school teachers. “We have to put the work of the most brilliant people in their hands,” he said. “If we don’t empower them, it won’t work.” Behind the talking points and buzz words, what I heard him saying was Yes.
事实上，在Amplify公司旨在颠覆美国学校教育的宏伟计划中，这些不堪重负、遭到围攻、随意招募而来、未受过严格培训、待遇低下、算不上出类拔萃的老师们，是不是一个潜在的薄弱环节呢？克莱因表示，美国共有350万名中小学教师，“我们必须把出自最杰出人才之手的技术产品放在他们手中，”他说。“如果我们不赋予老师权力的话，它是不是就不会产生效果？”我问道。在一连串谈话要点和套话的背后，我听到他回答说——是的。