If you’re expecting all the whispery delicacy of a haiku at New York Sushi Ko on the Lower East Side, you may be a tad taken aback when John Daley grabs the blowtorch.
如果你期待在下东区的纽约寿司屋(New York Sushi Ko)感受到像俳句诗文那样宁静精致的氛围，当你看到约翰·戴利(John Daley)拿起喷灯枪时，可能会大吃一惊。
A lot of sushi chefs have a blowtorch. They generally use it to give the surface of a piece of fish a fast, scorched-and-liquefied sheen of extra flavor. But Mr. Daley, who has the words rice and fish tattooed on his knuckles, does something else. First he places some tuna into a wire strainer. Then he ignites the flame and keeps it relentlessly fixed on the fish until it has almost melted away.
很多做寿司的厨师都有喷灯枪。厨师通常会用它快速地使鱼肉表面变得焦脆多汁，出现油光，味道更浓。但是把米和鱼这两个字纹在手指关节处的戴利还有其他的做法。他先把金枪鱼放进金属网筛，然后点火对准鱼炙烧，直到鱼肉几乎要烧化。
Piscine fat drips into a plate beneath the strainer and becomes a rich, clear-as-water sauce for a bulbous mound of rice and minced tuna. And the chewy nub of fish left at the bottom of the strainer? He drops that on top like an oceanic bacon bit. “Tuna chicharrón,” he likes to say.
鱼油漏到网筛下面的盘子里，变成了一种口感醇厚、清澈如水的酱料，用来搭配放上碎金枪鱼肉的饭团。网筛里残留的有嚼劲的鱼肉又该怎么办呢？他把它放在饭团的最上面，就像是鱼肉培根。他喜欢称之为“金枪鱼油渣”。
“I told my master I was doing that and he said, ‘No, you can’t do that,’ ” the chef, 34, said from behind the counter on a recent evening. Mr. Daley, who has a cinematic ear for dialogue, wryly reminded his master that New York Sushi Ko is his restaurant, so he can do what he wants.
“我把这种做法告诉了我的老师，他说，‘不行，你不能那么做，’”最近一天晚上，34岁的大厨戴利在吧台后说道。耳朵很尖的戴利揶揄地提醒他的老师，纽约寿司屋是他自己的餐厅，所以他想怎么做就怎么做。
It’s the sort of response that you might hear all over New York City. At various spots downtown, including Sushi Nakazawa and Sushi Dojo, fish-and-rice specialists in their 20s and 30s have been slipping out of the apprenticeship phase and making their mark. Their presentation may be more traditional than Mr. Daley’s, but they share a desire to run sushi bars that seem more like Tokyo hangouts than Buddhist temples. Rigidity and austerity are out. Change and conviviality are in.
你或许在纽约市的各个地方都能听到这种回答。在中泽寿司(Sushi Nakazawa)和道场寿司(Sushi Dojo)等很多市中心的餐厅，那些二三十岁的寿司厨师已经悄悄结束了学徒期，开始崭露头角。他们制作的料理的外观或许比戴利更传统，但是他们都有一个共同的愿望，那就是把寿司屋变得更像是东京年轻人常去的休闲场所，而不是佛堂。拒绝刻板与拘谨，欢迎变革与轻松的氛围。
For the last 10 years or so, any serious discussion of sushi artistry in Manhattan has been dominated by a handful of established and expensive favorites at the top echelon, including Masa in the Time Warner Center, Sushi Yasuda on the East Side, Kurumazushi in Midtown and 15 East near Union Square, where the man whom Mr. Daley refers to as his master, Masato Shimizu, holds court. You will find partisans who love the complex flavors that elevate each bite at Sushi Seki and Ichimura at Brushstroke, and those who stay true to the old-guard citadel of Hatsuhana, and those who cherish the intimacy of spots like Jewel Bako and Ushiwakamaru.
在过去约10年时间里，任何对曼哈顿寿司工艺的严肃讨论，都是由几家最顶级的历史悠久且价格昂贵的餐厅所把持，其中包括时代华纳中心的雅(Masa)、东区的安田寿司(Sushi Yasuda)、中城的车寿司(Kurumazushi)和联合广场的东15街(15 East)等人们最喜爱的餐厅。被戴利称为师傅的清水正人（Masato Shimizu，音译）就在东15街掌勺。你会发现，有人喜欢关寿司(Sushi Seki)和笔触餐厅之市村(Ichimura at Brushstroke)那种丰富的口感，每一口的味道都更浓郁，而有人则钟爱忠于传统的初花(Hatsuhana)，还有人则看重Jewel Bako和Ushiwakamaru的那种亲密氛围。
Over the last few months, though, it has become clear that there’s a new crew to consider. Most prominent among the young guns is Daisuke Nakazawa, who so far has been best known to an American audience as that guy in the documentary “Jiro Dreams of Sushi” whose tortured quest to learn how to make perfect tamagoyaki, the delicately sweet omelet that arrives toward the end of a meal at Sukiyabashi Jiro in Tokyo, pushed him to the brink of tears.
然而过去几个月里，这个领域明显出现了一支新军。这批血气方刚的年轻人中最有名的是中泽大佑（Daisuke Nakazawa，音译），他最为美国观众熟知的就是纪录片《寿司之神》(Jiro Dreams of Sushi)里那个历尽艰险，学习如何制作完美玉子烧的人，其中的艰辛让他几近落泪。在东京的数寄屋桥次郎(Sukiyabashi Jiro)，这种精致的甜煎蛋卷总是餐食的最后一道菜。
Mr. Nakazawa, a 35-year-old father of four, spent 11 years studying the art of sushi as an apprentice to Jiro Ono, the octogenarian master whom some regard as the greatest sushi craftsman alive. Mr. Nakazawa’s personal style is looser than his master’s, but his adherence to tradition runs deep. After more than a decade of training with Mr. Ono, Mr. Nakazawa was told he was now considered a shokunin: a craftsman skilled enough to hang out his own sushi shingle someday. “Jiro said it was the time,” he said through an interpreter, on a recent afternoon downtown. “But I was not ready.”
35岁的中泽有四个孩子，他花11年时间在小野二郎(Jiro Ono)门下学习寿司制作工艺。有人认为，八十多岁的小野二郎是在世的最伟大的寿司工艺大师。中泽的个人风格虽不像师傅那样严谨，但他对传统的坚持仍根深蒂固。师从小野二郎10多年后，中泽被告知他已经是一名职人了，即某天能挂出自己的寿司招牌的技巧娴熟的名匠。“小野说火候到了，”近期的一天下午，他在市中心通过翻译说。“但那时我还没有准备好。”
Deeply unsettled by the earthquake and tsunami that savaged Japan in 2011, Mr. Nakazawa moved his family to Seattle and got a job at Shiro’s, a sushi mainstay on the Pacific Coast. That’s where the New York restaurateur Alessandro Borgognone tracked him down in 2012. Mr. Borgognone and his wife watched “Jiro Dreams of Sushi” one night; mesmerized, the restaurateur, who is associated with Patricia’s in the Bronx, became determined to import one of the key players from Sukiyabashi Jiro to New York City. Knowing he would never be able to entice either Mr. Ono or his son, he decided to zero in on the sweet-omelet dude.
2011年，日本受到了地震和海啸的严重打击，深感不安的中泽带着家人一起搬到了西雅图，在Shiro’s找到了一份工作，这是一家美国西岸的著名寿司屋。2012年，纽约的餐厅老板亚历山德罗·博尔戈尼奥内(Alessandro Borgognone)就是在这里找到他的。博尔戈尼奥内的知名度源自布朗克斯的Patricia’s餐厅。一天晚上，在和妻子一共观看了《寿司之神》之后，着了迷的博尔戈尼奥内决定请数寄屋桥次郎的一位关键人物到纽约来。他知道自己绝不可能成功说动小野或他儿子，他决定把目标锁定在制作玉子烧的那个家伙身上。
Mr. Borgognone found Mr. Nakazawa on Facebook. He wrote a letter to the shokunin, using Google Translator to convert the words to Japanese, and sent it into the blue. Eventually the Facebook message led to an exchange, then to Mr. Nakazawa’s first trip to New York and then to dreams of opening a world-class sushi mecca in the West Village.
博尔戈尼奥内在Facebook上找到了中泽，给他写了一封信，用谷歌翻译(Google Translator)把信翻译成了日语便发了出去，也不确定能否收到回复。最终，Facebook上的留言促使双方开始了交流，随后中泽首次来到纽约，然后还催生了在西村创办一个世界级寿司圣地的梦想。
The way the chef sees it, the success of Sushi Nakazawa depends on his being a stickler about every element of the preparation: the provenance of the seaweed, the temperature of the sea urchin, the type of rice.
在这位大厨眼中，中泽寿司的成功在于，他非常注重准备过程的每个要素：紫菜的产地、海胆的温度和米饭的种类。
But in spite of his fastidiousness, Mr. Nakazawa is no scold. Visitors to his sushi bar are met with a smile and a talk-show host’s knack for one-liners. In casual conversation, he’ll even admit to having an appetite for populist variations on his craft. “Oh, I like spicy tuna rolls!” he said the other day. “To eat. Never to make.” Capitalizing on his approachability is part of the restaurant’s mission. Dinner at Sukiyabashi Jiro in Tokyo can resemble an expensive version of speed-dating: You sit down at the counter, bites are placed in front of you in rapid succession and your long-awaited encounter with the world’s most exquisite sushi comes to a close in about the same amount of time you would spend with a burrito at Chipotle.
然而，中泽虽然追求细节的完美，却也并非不苟言笑。他总会以微笑和脱口秀主持人那种一句话式的幽默迎接他寿司屋的客人。在闲聊时，他甚至会承认爱吃那种广受欢迎的新式寿司。“哦，我喜欢辣金枪鱼卷！”他有一天说道。“只是吃。我永远不会去做。”他的这种热情随意也是这家餐厅的招牌之一。在东京的数寄屋桥次郎用餐就好像是体验一次昂贵的快速约会：你在吧台后坐下，小份的食物在你的面前迅速一一排开，你等待已久的与世界上最精美寿司的约会，用时却和你在墨西哥烧烤快餐店Chipotel吃一份玉米卷饼的时间差不多。
That probably wouldn’t fly with New Yorkers who are paying upward of $150 a person in exchange for a transcendent night. “You’ve got to bring him to a New York state of mind,” Mr. Borgognone said. “It can’t be a 20-minute experience. People don’t want to feel like they’re getting robbed.”
对纽约人而言，这可能行不通，他们支付每人150美元（约合900元人民币）的价格是为了享受一个非比寻常的夜晚。“你必须让他适应纽约的思维方式，”博尔戈尼奥内说。“这不能就是20分钟的一顿饭。人们可不想觉得自己被打劫了。”
If Sushi Nakazawa comes across as a friendlier-than-expected temple, Sushi Dojo in the East Village cultivates the spirit of an impromptu cocktail party. Born in France and raised in Florida, David Bouhadana doesn’t have a background that you would normally expect from a sushi chef. “I’m a French-Moroccan Sephardic Jew,” he said. About a decade ago, he showed up to work as a waiter at a sushi restaurant in Florida when the owner suddenly pointed to him and told him to start prepping meals.
如果说中泽寿司给人的感觉是一个非常热情的寺庙，那么东村的道场寿司则营造出了一种即兴鸡尾酒会的氛围。戴维·博哈纳(David Bouhadana)出生于法国，成长于佛罗里达，他和人们常见的寿司厨师的经历完全不同。“我是一个法国—摩洛哥混血的塞法迪犹太人，”他说。大约十年前，他开始在佛罗里达的一家寿司餐厅当服务员，突然有一天餐厅的老板挑他出来，让他开始准备餐食。
“I did a terrible job that night,” Mr. Bouhadana said. He scattered rice everywhere and deep-fried the shrimp without batter. The owner gave him $20 and firmly instructed him never to return. Mr. Bouhadana came back anyway (he was becoming obsessed) and wound up training for about 10 years with masters in Japan, Los Angeles and New York. He is 27.
“那天晚上我表现得非常糟糕，”博哈纳说。他把米撒得到处都是，还忘了在炸虾时裹上面糊。餐厅老板给了他20美元，明确告诉他别再回来。博哈纳还是回去了（而且深深地迷上了这一行），结果花了约10年时间在日本、洛杉矶和纽约跟不同的师傅学艺。他如今27岁。
Maybe as a pre-emptive strike against anyone who would question his youth, Mr. Bouhadana chose dojo, the Japanese word that often signifies a place of study, as the name of the restaurant that he runs as part of a trio with fellow chefs Hiromi Suzuki and Makoto Yoshizawa. But after school is more like the operative philosophy.
也许是为了不让人们有机会质疑他的年龄，博哈纳主动出击，为他的餐厅选了dojo（道场）一名，在日语中，道场代表学习的场所。博哈纳和另外两名厨师铃木博美（Hiromi Suzuki，音译）、义泽允（Makoto Yoshizawa，音译）一起合作经营这家餐厅。但这里的经营理念更像是不要去循规蹈矩。
Sushi Dojo is the sort of place where the customary glass of beer that a diner buys for the chef can evolve into a frosty carafe of sake from another customer a few seats away. Stoic silence is not Mr. Bouhadana’s style; his banter with customers is as quick as his knife work. “I guess everyone’s just tired of the grumpy old chef,” Mr. Bouhadana said. He added: “I always say, ‘Serious sushi, but not serious people.’ ”
在道场寿司，当一位客人出于惯例给厨师买了一杯啤酒之后，往往不远处的另一位客人就会买下一瓶冰镇的清酒。冷淡、沉默并不是博哈纳的风格；他与客人打趣时的反应就像他的刀那么快。“我猜大家都厌烦了那种坏脾气的老厨师，”博哈纳说。他补充说道：“我总是说，‘对待寿司要严肃，对人不用。’”
In some ways, the ones who seem the least traditional in the sushi world could be seen as the most traditional of all. “The sushi bar as we know it didn’t really exist before the 1950s,” said Sasha Issenberg, the author of a 2007 book “The Sushi Economy.” In spite of all the “pageantry” and “hushed introspection” that we associate with it now, he said, “Sushi was a fast food in Japan in the 19th century before it was a fancy sit-down food.”
从某些方面来说，那些在寿司界最反传统的人，在有些人眼中反而是最传统的。“我们印象中的这种寿司屋在20世纪50年代之前并不存在，”2007年出版的《寿司经济》(The Sushi Economy)的作者萨沙·伊森伯格(Sasha Issenberg)说。他说，尽管我们如今总是将寿司与“富丽堂皇”、“安静内审”这样的字眼联系起来，“在19世纪，寿司就是一种日本快餐，后来才演变成一种高档的正餐。”
At New York Sushi Ko, where the man with the “Night of the Hunter”-ish ink can be found blowtorching tuna and tenderizing octopus to a booming soundtrack of reggae and hip-hop, Mr. Daley insists that his rock ’n’ roll insouciance shouldn’t be interpreted as a lack of discipline. “Sushi to me is the zenith,” he said. “It’s pristine. It’s the one punch, one kill. It’s the karate of foods.”
在纽约寿司屋，你会看到，伴随着震天响的雷鬼和嘻哈音乐，厨师拿着《猎人之夜》(Night of the Hunter)里的那类喷灯枪在烤金枪鱼和章鱼。戴利坚称，带着摇滚风格的随意表象不应被理解为不守规矩。“寿司对我来说是至高无上的，”他说。“是纯粹的。是必杀技。是食物中的空手道。”
He considers himself bound to classic Japanese methods. “I’m just messing with their form,” he said. “Their presentation. I’m not messing with their flavors. There’s no truffle oil here.”
他认为自己谨遵日本的传统之道。“我只是在玩不同的形式，”他说，“它们的卖相。我不会改变它们的味道。我的厨房里没有松露油。”
That said, his nickname at 15 East was Punk, and there are probably good reasons for that. It’s clear that when it comes to some of the fussiness that has begun to characterize the contemporary sushi bar, Mr. Daley doesn’t mind firing up the blowtorch.
虽然如此，在东15街，人们称戴利为朋克(Punk)，也许这不无道理。毫无疑问，说到如今开始主宰寿司屋的那种挑剔风格，戴利不介意点燃喷灯枪。
“We’ve been seeing things the same way for 200 years,” he said. “I’m getting bored with it. It’s 2013, man. It’s New York. It’s the Lower East Side.”
“200年了，我们老用同样的方式看事情，”他说，“我实在是越来越烦这个。现在可是2013年了，老兄。这儿是纽约，这儿是下东城。”