FOR years now, we’ve heard the gripes by and about millennials, the offspring of the Great Recession, caught between childhood and adulthood. Their plight seems so very 21st century: the unstable careers, the confusion of technologies, the delayed romance, parenthood and maturity.
多年来我们总是能听到来自和针对千禧世代、以及有关这一代人的抱怨。千禧世代出生于经济大衰退时期，目前正处于儿童和成人之间的状态。他们的痛苦似乎非常具有21世纪的特色：事业的不稳定，科技的迷惘，迟迟不来的爱情、生儿育女和成熟。
Many of the same concerns and challenges faced the children of the industrial revolution, as the booms and busts of America’s wild 19th century tore apart the accepted order.
而工业革命时期出生的人，随着19世纪美国的大起大落将既有秩序打破，也面临着许多同样的担忧和挑战。
Each New Year’s, young men and women filled their diaries with worries that seem very familiar today: They found living with their parents “humiliating indeed” and felt “qualified for nothing.” Others moaned: “I am twenty-five and not in love yet.” Gathering over beer or cigars, they complained about how far they were from marriage, how often they switched jobs.
每到新年，年轻的男女们在日记中写满了烦心事，这些担忧放在今天似乎并不陌生：他们发现，和父母住在一起“实在很没面子”，他们感觉自己“什么都做不好”。还有一些人则哀叹：“我都25岁了，还没谈过恋爱呢。”他们聚在一起，伴着啤酒和雪茄，抱怨自己离婚姻那么遥远，工作换得如此频繁。
The idea that millennials are uniquely “stuck” is nonsense. Young Victorians grasped for maturity as well, embarrassed by the distance between their lives and society’s expectations.
把“停滞不前”说成是千禧世代所独有实在毫无道理。维多利亚时期的年轻人也渴望成熟，也为自己的人生和社会期望之间的差距感到羞愧。
These Americans were born into an earthquake. During the 1800s America’s population exploded from 5 million to 75 million. By 1900 nearly as many people lived in New York City as had lived in the entire country during the Revolution. The nation went from a rural backwater to an industrial behemoth — producing more than Britain, Germany and France combined — but every decade the economy crashed. America saw the kind of wild change we see today in China, and in a new society with little to stabilize it.
这些美国人一出生就赶上了大动荡。在19世纪，美国人口从500万激增到了7500万。到1900年，纽约市的人口已经和独立战争时期整个美国的人口一样多。美国从一个死气沉沉的农业社会，变成了工业化的庞然大物——生产总值超过了英国、德国和法国的总和——但是每十年经济会崩溃一次。当时在美国呈现的疯狂景象，我们今天在中国以及一个缺乏稳定能力的新社会里可以看到。
For rootless 20-somethings, each national shock felt intimate, rattling their love lives and careers. Many young adults could not accept that their personal struggles were just ripples of a large-scale social dislocation. So each New Year’s, they blamed themselves. In a Jan. 1, 1859, entry in her journal, 19-year-old Mollie Sanford, stuck on a Nebraska homestead in the middle of a recession, castigated herself for not being “any better than I was one year ago.”
对于20多岁、漂泊无依的人来说，国家的每一次巨变都会带来切身的感受，搅动着自己的爱情和事业。许多年轻人不认为自己的个人挣扎只是一个大范围的社会紊乱所泛起的涟漪。因此，每到新年，他们都反省自己。1859年1月1日，19岁的莫莉·桑福德(Mollie Sanford)在经济衰退中被困在内布拉斯加的一块宅地上，她在日记里责怪自己，“和一年前相比一点进步也没有。”
Romance worried them above all. Today some fret about the changing institution of marriage, but we are used to such adjustments; 19th-century Americans were blindsided when the average age of marriage rose precipitously, to 26 — a level America didn’t return to until 1990. In a world where life expectancy hovered below age 50, delaying marriage until 26 was revolutionary.
他们最担忧的还是爱情。如今有一些人对婚姻制度的不断变化的感到担忧，但是我们已经习惯了这种调整；而在19世纪，当平均结婚年龄一下子涨到了26岁，美国人一下子懵了——美国的平均结婚年龄直到1990年才重新回到这个水平。在平均寿命不到50岁的世界，结婚年龄推迟到26岁所带来的改变是革命性的。
Cities brimmed with bachelors and unmarried ladies in their mid-20s, once a rare sight. In their New Year’s reflections, men and women noted that their parents had had children by their age. One typical Union Army soldier wrote home wondering, “Do you think I will be married before I am thirty?”
城市里到处是25岁左右的单身男女，这种情况几乎史无前例。在新年日记里的反思中，他们说，父母到了自己这个年纪都已经有孩子了。一个典型的联邦军士兵在家书中问道，“你们觉得我30岁之前能结婚吗？”
This social change brought personal turmoil, especially for young women. Marriage meant love and family, but in a society that discouraged ladies from working, young women were dependent on their husbands. Remaining single meant economic and legal instability, and the perception of childishness. When the mother of one diarist, Emily Gillespie, scolded the Midwestern farm girl by saying, “you are twenty years old and not married yet,” it hardly mattered that Emily was in line with her generation.
这种社会变化让人们的个人生活也变得混乱，对年轻女性来说尤其如此。婚姻意味着爱情和家庭，但是在一个不鼓励女性工作的社会，年轻女性要依赖丈夫生存。保持单身意味着经济和法律状态的不稳定，还会被别人认为太过孩子气。日记作者艾米丽·吉莱斯皮(Emily Gillespie)的母亲责骂这名中西部农场女孩说，“你都20岁了，还不结婚，”这不是艾米丽一个人的问题，同代人都是这样，不过这已经不重要了。
While some looked for love, others looked for jobs. Before the modern era, young people found work within family networks, laboring at home or on a farm, pausing for “elevenses” (a late-morning whiskey break) or an afternoon nap. The industrial economy changed that.
一些人在寻找爱情，另外一些人则在寻找工作。在进入现代之前，年轻人是在其家庭网络内找工作的，他们在家或是在农场劳动，上午11点左右会停下工作享用茶点，下午还可以打个盹。工业经济改变了这一切。
The good news was that there were more jobs; the bad news was that they were isolating and temporary. Work now meant small factories or lumber camps or railroad crews of strangers. They were monitored like machines, with pressure to increase productivity replacing the slower pace of preindustrial labor.
好消息是，工作机会多了；坏消息是，这些工作让人彼此孤立，而且是暂时性的。如今，工作意味着小工厂或者伐木场或者陌生的铁路部门的工友。他们像机器一样被监控着，承受着提高生产效率的压力，这种生产效率取代了前工业时代劳动的慢节奏。
For young people this meant chronic instability. A young man might brag about his new job one week and find himself begging for money from his father the next. Frustrated youths worried that their jobs did not reflect their age or ability: One brilliant young speaker complained about working in a cramped Philadelphia boot factory, nailing soles when he should have been climbing a soapbox.
对年轻人来说，这意味着长期的不稳定。一名年轻男子这一周还在炫耀着自己的新工作，下一周可能就要向父亲要生活费了。受挫的年轻人因为工作与自己的年龄或能力不匹配而忧心忡忡：一名优秀的年轻演讲师抱怨自己在一家破烂的费城靴子厂工作，在本来应该站在街头演讲台上的，现在却在钉鞋底。
While 19th-century young adults faced many of the anxieties that trouble 23-year-olds today, they found novel solutions. The first was to move. Young men and women were notoriously transient, heading out on “wander years” when life at home seemed stalled. In one Wisconsin county, 90 percent of those present in 1870 were gone by 1880. Most set out with no plan, few connections and a small carpetbag of personal possessions.
尽管19世纪的年轻人面临着许多今天困扰着23岁人的焦虑，他们却有着新的解决办法。第一种办法就是搬家。年轻的男男女女们以漂泊不定闻名，纷纷在“流浪期”离开似乎已经陷入停滞的家庭生活。在威斯康辛的一个县，1870年生活在这里的人中，到1880年已经有90%搬走。大多数人出发时没有计划，没有人脉，只有一个装着个人物品的小旅行包。
Another solution was to find like-minded young adults, to share, as one later put it in his memoir, their “baffling discouragements and buoyant hopes.” Nineteenth-century young people were compulsive joiners. Political movements, literary societies, religious organizations, dancing clubs and even gangs proliferated. The men and women who joined cared about the stated cause, but also craved the community these groups created. They realized that while instability was inevitable, isolation was voluntary.
另一个解决办法，是找到志趣相投的其他年轻人，就如同一个人后来在回忆录中写道的，分享他们“令人困惑的挫折和蓬勃的希望”。19世纪的年轻人不由自主地想要加入群体。政治运动、文学社、宗教组织，舞蹈俱乐部，连黑帮团伙都人丁兴旺。加入这些组织的男女们在乎其组织的目标，同时渴望的是这些组织创造的集体。他们意识到，尽管不稳定的状态难以避免，是否孤独却是可以选择的。
Today’s young adults are constantly rebuked for not following the life cycle popular in 1960. But a quick look at earlier eras shows just how unusual mid-20th-century young people were. A society in which people married out of high school and held the same job for 50 years is the historical outlier. Some of that era’s achievements were enviable, but they were not the norm.
今天的年轻人经常因为没有遵循1960年多数人的生活轨迹而受到指责。但是只需看看更早的时代，就可以看出20世纪中叶的年轻人是多么不同寻常。高中毕业就结婚、一份工作干50年的社会，在历史上是一个异常值。那个时代有过令人艳羡的成就，但这些成就并不是常态。
The anxieties that 19th-century young people poured into their New Year’s diary entries are more common. Americans considered young adulthood the most dangerous part of life, and struggled to find a path to maturity. Those who did best tended to accept change, not to berate themselves for breaking with tradition. Young adults might do the same today. Stop worrying about how they appear from the skewed perspective of the mid-20th century and find a new home, a new stability and a new community in the new year.
更为普遍的，是19世纪的年轻人在新年日记中大量提到的焦虑。美国人认为刚刚步入成年的时候是人生中最危险的一个阶段，为了找到一条通向成熟的路而历尽艰辛。做得最好的一群人往往接受了变化，而不是因为违背了传统而责怪自己。今天的年轻人也可以这么做。不要以20世纪中叶的扭曲视角担心这些年轻人的状态，在新的一年，找到一个新的家，一种新的稳定状态和一个新的群落。