SOUSSE, Tunisia — Dressed in black shorts and a T-shirt, the young man walked purposefully along the beach but looked much like a tourist — until he unwrapped an assault rifle and opened fire, first into the sand and then in an arc at sunbathers.
突尼斯苏斯—那个身穿黑色短裤和T恤的小伙子沿着海滩有目的地走着，看起来与游客没多大差别，直到他把包装中的冲锋枪拿出来，开了火，先是向沙滩，然后提高角度向着享受日光浴的人们。
“He seemed like he did not know how to handle the weapon, because it is heavy,” said one witness, Hassen, 30, who declined to give his full name. “He seemed not to be experienced.”
“他看起来好像不知道如何使用那个武器，因为枪很沉，”一位30岁的目击者说，他自称叫哈桑(Hassen)，但不愿给出自己的全名。“他似乎没有经验。”
Yet the gunman was silent and businesslike, Hassen and other witnesses said on Saturday. As the tourists fled and saw friends falling, he pursued the sunbathers from the beach to the pool and eventually to the administration offices on the second floor of the Imperial Marhaba Hotel here, killing 39 people and wounding 38 others in all on Friday.
这位枪手一言不发、却效率很高，哈桑和其他目击者上周六说。随着游客四散奔逃，看着朋友在眼前倒下，枪手从海滩到游泳池追击着日浴者们，一直追到这里的马哈巴帝国酒店(Imperial Marhaba Hotel)二层的行政办公室，他上周五总共打死了39人，打伤了38人。
Later identified by the authorities as a 23-year-old Tunisian student, Seifeddine Rezgui, the gunman was eventually shot and killed by a policeman, but not before carrying out Tunisia’s worst terrorist attack in living memory.
枪手最终被一名警察开枪打死，当局后来查明了他的身份，他是23岁的突尼斯学生赛费迪奈·雷兹古伊(Seifeddine Rezgui)，他制造了在突尼斯人们记忆中最严重的一起恐怖袭击事件。
The only words he uttered were to tell Tunisians to get away. It was tourists, he made clear, he wanted to kill. Fifteen of them were British, a spokesman for the British Embassy in Tunis said, a number that is expected to rise as more bodies are identified. About the same number of Britons were injured, he said.
他说的唯一一句话是让突尼斯人躲开。他明确表示，游客是他要杀的人。英国驻突尼斯大使馆的一位发言人说，死者中有15名英国人，随着更多的遗体得到确认，这个数字预计还会上升。他说，约有同样数字的英国人受了伤。
“Something was not right,” said Christine Callaghan, a middle-aged woman from Norfolk, England, describing the moment she first heard the gunshots as she lay with her husband by the pool. “It was very long and very loud,” she said, from her hospital bed on Saturday. “My husband screamed out: ‘Quick, run!’ ”
“我感觉有点不对头，”来自英国诺福克的中年女子克里斯蒂娜·卡拉汉(Christine Callaghan)说，她第一次听到枪声时，正和丈夫一起在游泳池边躺着。“持续的时间很长，声音也很大，”她上周六躺在医院的病床上说。“我的丈夫大喊：‘快，快跑！’”
The tourists fled in their bathing suits into the hotel through the dining room, piling up mattresses in a corridor for protection, and barricading themselves into a banquet hall as they heard gunfire and explosions.
游客们穿着游泳衣穿过饭厅逃进酒店，把床垫堆到走廊里作为保护，他们用障碍物把自己隔离在一个宴会厅里，同时听到了枪声和爆炸声。
In the rush Mrs. Callaghan lost sight of her husband. “He thought I was in front of him, but I was behind,” she said.
在混乱中，卡拉汉太太找不到丈夫了。“他以为我在他的前面，但是，我在后面，”她说。
As the tourists barricaded the doors, Mrs. Callaghan was locked out, trapped in the corridor as the gunman approached. “I was shot in the femur and fell down. Another lady was shot four times and her leg was across my tummy,” she said tearfully.
随着游客把门堵上，卡拉汉太太被拦在了外边，她被困在楼道里，而枪手正在逼近。“我的股骨被射中，我倒了下来。另一位女士中了四枪，她的腿压在了我的肚子上，“她含着泪说。
“She was shot in the stomach. Her husband, Joe — his shirt was completely splattered with blood — was talking to her to keep her awake,” she recounted.
卡拉汉太太回忆说，“她的腹部中了枪。她的丈夫乔(Joe)满衬衫都是血，不停地和她说话，让她保持清醒。”
The two women lay there for 45 minutes, as Joe desperately called for help, until finally hotel staff crept along the corridor and began carrying people out.
这两名女子在那里躺了45分钟，乔拼命地大声呼救，直到酒店的工作人员最终从走廊里爬过来，开始把人往外抬。
Mrs. Callaghan and many of the hotel guests never saw the lone gunman but just heard the shooting. But a group of Tunisians who run paragliding tours on the beach in front of the hotel saw the gunman and even tried to remonstrate with him. The witness Hassen was among them.
卡拉汉太太和酒店的许多客人根本就没有看到那个单干的枪手，只听到了枪声。但一群突尼斯人看见了枪手，他们甚至试图劝谏他，这群突尼斯人当时在酒店前的沙滩上兜售滑翔旅游体验。见证者哈桑是其中之一。
Mr. Rezgui was originally from Gaafour in Siliana, with no known police record, Tunisian officials said.
突尼斯官员表示，雷兹古伊的老家是锡勒亚奈的加阿富尔，他没有已知的犯罪记录。
The gunman made it plain that the foreigners were his target. Hospital employees in Sousse said seven Tunisians were among the 38 injured, though the gunman made an effort to spare some.
枪手明确地说，外国人是他的目标。苏斯的医院员工说，受伤的38人中有7名突尼斯人，虽然枪手曾试图避免伤及某些人。
Imen Kashish, a Tunisian mother of three, lay in the city hospital, her face drawn in pain from shrapnel wounds. Her sister, Ines Kashish, who was at her bedside, recounted events that Imen had described.
三个孩子的母亲、突尼斯人伊曼·卡希什(Imen Kashish)躺在市医院里，她被弹片击伤，脸上充满痛苦的表情。她的妹妹伊内斯·卡希什(Ines Kashish)呆在她的床边，讲述了伊曼描述的事件。
Imen Kashish had tried to flee to the roof with hotel guests and workers, her sister said. Then someone said the roof would also be dangerous. As she stood in the corridor wondering where to go, she felt a burning pain as a grenade exploded, peppering her legs and back with shrapnel.“When she fell to the ground, he put a gun to her face,” her sister recounted, standing outside her hospital ward. “She said to him: ‘For God’s sake,’ and he did not shoot. He went on and shot two tourists further on.”
伊内斯说，伊曼·卡希什曾试图和酒店的客人和工作人员一起逃到屋顶。但有人说，屋顶也很危险。正当她站在走廊里，不知道该往哪去时，她感到一阵火辣辣的疼痛，一枚手榴弹在她身后爆炸，弹片雨点般地落在她的腿上和背部。伊内斯在病房外回忆道，“姐姐倒在地上，他用枪对着姐姐的脸。姐姐对他说：‘看在上帝的份上’，他没有开枪。他走了过去，把子弹射向前面的两名游客。”
After some 30 minutes the gunman went back to the beach and made a phone call. That was when some of the Tunisians approached him.
约30分钟后，枪手又回到海滩，打了一个电话。也就是在那时，一些突尼斯人向他走来。