MINEO, Sicily — When the Italian Coast Guard first got a call Saturday night from a fishing boat alerting it to large vessel carrying migrants in the Mediterranean between the Libyan coast and Italian island of Lampedusa, it radioed the nearest commercial ship, a Portuguese freighter called the King Jacob, to go help.
西西里米内奥——当意大利海岸警卫队周六夜里第一次接到一艘渔船的呼叫，称地中海上一艘载有移民的大船在利比亚海岸和意大利兰佩杜萨岛之间遇险时，它通过无线电请求距离最近的商船——葡萄牙货船雅各布国王号(King Jacob)——前往施援。
What happened when the King Jacob, nearly 500 feet long, approached the multitiered migrant vessel early on Sunday morning is not precisely clear. But an account provided Tuesday by prosecutors in Sicily, based on interviews with survivors, said the captain of the migrant ship, seeing the approaching King Jacob, made “wrong maneuvers” and collided with it. The migrants then crowded to one side of their boat after the collision, causing it to capsize.
目前仍不清楚，当接近500英尺长的雅各布国王号周日早上靠近了这艘多层移民船时，究竟发生了什么。不过，西西里的检方周二根据幸存者的描述称，移民船的船长看到了正在靠近的雅各布国王号，进行了“错误的操作”，并与之相撞。撞船后，移民都挤到了船的一侧，导致船体倾覆。
Investigators are just beginning to debrief the few survivors of the wreck: 28 men out of the estimated 850 people who packed onto the migrant vessel. But they have arrested its captain, identified on Tuesday by prosecutors as Mohammed Ali Malek, 27, a Tunisian, on suspicion of multiple homicide.
调查人员目前刚刚开始盘问这起事故为数不多的幸存者：约850人登上了这艘拥挤的移民船，只有28名男子生还。不过，船长已经因涉嫌杀人遭到逮捕。检方周二证实，船长名叫穆罕默德·阿里·马雷克(Mohammed Ali Malek)，27岁，是突尼斯人。
Mr. Malek and another crew member, Mahmud Bikhit, 25, a Syrian, are likely to be charged with engaging in illegal migration. The two men were detained while on the rescue boat that took more than two dozen survivors to the Sicilian port city of Catania on Monday night.
马雷克和另一名船员——25岁的叙利亚人马哈茂德·比克希特(Mahmud Bikhit)——可能被指控参与非法移民。周一夜里，一艘救援船把20多名幸存者运送到了西西里港口城市卡塔尼亚，两人就是在这艘船上遭到了扣押。
The crew of the King Jacob, prosecutors said, was blameless in the collision.
检方称，雅各布国王号的船员在撞船事故中不承担责任。
The survivors of the capsizing were taken to a detention center in Mineo, a town southwest of Catania. The center, a sprawling former residential base for American naval personnel, now houses migrants mostly from sub-Saharan Africa, some of whom were playing soccer on a dirt field on Tuesday. The Italian authorities declined to make them available for interviews with journalists.
幸存者被带到了卡塔尼亚西南部米内奥镇的一个拘留中心。这里曾是一座庞大的美国海军人员驻地，如今住在这里的是来自沙哈拉以南非洲的移民，周二，有些人正在泥地上踢足球。意大利当局拒绝让他们接受记者采访。
Survivors told Flavio Di Giacomo, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration, that the ship departed from a beach in Libya. More than 1,000 people gathered to board the ship, some of whom had been hiding for days or weeks in filthy “connection houses” operated by smugglers. On the beach, the smugglers first lined up the men and ordered them on the boat. Many were forced into the boat’s hull and then told to sit on one another’s laps to make more space.
幸存者对国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)的发言人弗拉维奥·迪·贾科莫(Flavio Di Giacomo)表示，船是从利比亚的一片海滩起航的。聚了1000多人等着上船，其中一些人已经在肮脏的“群居屋”里藏了数天甚至数周。那些“群居屋”是蛇头开办的。在海滩上，蛇头先让人们排成队，然后命令他们上船。很多人被迫进入船体，后又被要求坐在别人的腿上，以便腾出更大的空间。
“They told me, ‘They were putting us inside like fish,’ ” Mr. Di Giacomo said.
“他们告诉我，‘他们把我们像鱼一样往里塞，’”迪·贾科莫说。
One of the smugglers took a head count as each man boarded the vessel, and several survivors said roughly 800 people were stuffed onto the boat. But very few women or children were included. They had been told to board after the men, and by then the boat was full.
人们一个一个登船时，有一个蛇头在数人数，并且多名幸存者称，大概800人被塞到了那艘船上。但这个数字几乎不包括妇女和孩子。她们被要求在男人之后登船。那时候，船上已经挤满了人。
Nearly all the men were from African countries, including Mali, Gambia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Ivory Coast, Eritrea and Somalia, as well as some from Bangladesh. A Bangladeshi survivor, airlifted on Sunday from the wreckage site to Sicily, gave prosecutors the first account of the episode.
几乎所有人都来自非洲国家，包括马里、甘比亚、塞内加尔、塞拉利昂、科特迪瓦、厄立特里亚和索马里，还有一些来自孟加拉国。周日，一名来自孟加拉国的幸存者被用飞机从船只失事地送到西西里，并最早向检方描述了事件经过。
Mr. Di Giacomo said that several survivors described the boats’ colliding but that their accounts differed on what exactly happened. And many told him that they had been working as migrant laborers in Libya until the turmoil there had become untenable. “They told me, ‘Libya, oh my God,’ ” Mr. Di Giacomo recalled.
迪·贾科莫称，多位幸存者描述了两船相撞的情形，但在究竟发生了什么事情上，他们的说法存在分歧。很多人对他说，他们一直在叙利亚务工，直到那里的动乱变得让他们难以立足。“他们对我说，‘利比亚，哦天哪，’” 迪·贾科莫回忆说。
Mr. Di Giacomo said that while “the testimonies are not very clear, they are convergent.”
迪·贾科莫称，尽管“证词不是非常清楚，但仍趋于一致”。
Pietro Sirrato, owner of an Italian boat fishing in the area for red shrimp, said his crew recovered four bodies but rescue efforts were difficult.
一艘在该海域捕捞红虾的意大利渔船的老板彼得罗·西拉托(Pietro Sirrato)称，他的员工打捞到了四具遗体，但救援工作颇为困难。
“At first they thought they might recover some bodies that were floating in the area, but the currents there are too strong,” said Mr. Sirrato, who was not aboard the vessel but spoke to its captain. “We are talking about a stretch of open sea.”
“起初他们以为或许能打捞起漂浮在该海域的一些遗体，但那里的浪非常大，”当时不在船上，但与船长通过话的西拉托说。“那可是一大片开阔的海域。”
The tragedy has put a new focus on human trafficking through North Africa to Europe, and especially the growing role of Libya as a staging point for refugees desperate to flee war, poverty and persecution in Africa and the Middle East.
这场悲剧让经北非前往欧洲的偷渡成为新的焦点，特别是利比亚所起的越来越重要的作用。对极度渴望逃离非洲及中东的战火、贫穷和迫害的难民来说，利比亚是一个集结地。
The episode was the deadliest in a series of migrant boat sinkings in the Mediterranean. The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said in a statement on Tuesday that the ship was carrying 850 people, and that only 28 were known to have survived.
这是地中海发生的一系列移民船沉没事件中，死亡人数最多的一起。联合国难民署(United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)在周二的一则声明中表示，船上载有850人，据知仅28人幸存。
The episode has highlighted a growing humanitarian crisis, and the European Council president, Donald Tusk, has called for a European summit meeting to be held on Thursday to address the issue. Rising numbers of refugees have been trying to reach Europe as the weather improves, often traveling in rickety boats operated by ruthless smugglers. Many never make it.
这起事件突显出了一场愈演愈烈的人道主义危机。欧洲理事会(European Council)主席唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)要求在周四召开欧洲峰会，以应对该问题。随着天气的好转，试图前往欧洲的难民人数日渐增加，他们通常会乘坐摇摇晃晃的船只。这些船只是由无情的蛇头运营的。但很多人永远都抵达不了目的地。
Since the weekend’s tragedy, the European Union has been scrambling to prevent an escalating humanitarian crisis. But analysts say its options are circumscribed, in part because the 28-member bloc lacks a coherent and common migration policy, which remains largely under the competence of national governments.
自从上周末的悲剧发生以来，欧盟一直在匆忙地遏制一场不断升级的人道主义危机。但分析人士说，它的选项有限，这一定程度上是因为这个28国机构缺乏一致和共同的移民政策，该政策仍然基本上由各国政府决定。
On Thursday, European leaders are expected to discuss proposals to double the size of search-and-rescue operations in the Mediterranean, increase the budget for Frontex and ratchet up the fight against smugglers.
周四，欧洲各国领导人预计将讨论在地中海增加一倍的救援力量，增加欧盟边境管理局(Frontex)的预算，以及加强打击偷渡者的计划。
The European Union is also seeking to unify its migration policies, including fingerprinting and recording all migrants and streamlining the application process for asylum.
欧盟还打算统一移民政策，包括对所有移民进行指纹和档案录入，以及提高避难申请程序的效率。
The European proposals are a “good beginning but we clearly need to work much more on protection components,” Volker Turk, the United Nations refugee agency’s assistant high commissioner for protection, told reporters in Geneva.
联合国难民署国际保护事务主管沃尔克尔·图尔克(Volker Turk)在日内瓦对记者说，欧洲的这些提案是一个“很好的开始，但我们显然需要在保护方面采取更多行动” 。
More than 1,300 people have drowned trying to get across the Mediterranean to Europe in April alone, said Adrian Edwards, a spokesman for the United Nations refugee agency. Their deaths bring the number of reported deaths to more than 1,776 this year, roughly half the number of deaths for the whole of 2014.
联合国难民署的发言人阿德里安·爱德华兹(Adrian Edwards)说，单是今年4月就有超过1300人在经由地中海抵达欧洲的途中溺亡。这让今年迄今得到汇报的死亡人数超过了1776人，差不多是2014年全年的一半。
The European Union plan pays a lot of attention to law enforcement measures, raising concerns among United Nations humanitarian agencies that European countries are still approaching the problem as a border protection issue rather than as a humanitarian crisis created by people fleeing conflict and economic migrants seeking a better life in Europe.
欧盟的方案对执法措施予以了极大的关注，这引发了联合国人权机构的担忧，即欧洲国家仍在把这件事视作边境保护问题，而没有意识到，这是一场由逃离冲突的人们和经济移民制造的人道主义危机，他们是想在欧洲过上更好的生活。