PARIS — Stéphane Charbonnier was perched, as was his habit every Wednesday morning, at a U-shaped wooden table on the second floor of his light-filled Parisian offices at the French satirical newspaper he headed, Charlie Hebdo, an array of papers spread before him.
巴黎——在他主编的法国讽刺报纸《查理周报》巴黎报社二楼的明亮办公室里，斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)坐在U形木会议桌的主持人位置上，就像每个周三上午那样，一大堆报纸在他的眼前摊开。
It was around 11:30, and about a dozen journalists, including the paper’s top cartoonists, had joined him for their regular weekly meeting to pore over the articles that would appear in the next issue. Their day had already been productive: Less than two hours earlier, the editors published a tweet of their latest provocative cartoon, a sketch of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the Islamic State, wishing his audience a Happy New Year, and “above all, good health!”
那是11点30分左右，大约有12名记者，其中包括报纸的主要漫画家们在和他一起开会，仔细挑选报纸下一期要刊登的内容。他们的这个工作日已颇有成效：不到两个小时前，编辑们刚就他们最新的挑衅漫画发了一个twitter帖子，画的是伊斯兰国(Islamic State)领导人阿布·贝克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)，他在向读者祝贺新年：“首先，祝大家身体健康！”
Unbeknown to them, a scene of terror was unfolding at their doorstep — one that would grip the world’s attention and set off new fears across Europe about a rising clash of civilizations, between radical Islamists and the West.
他们不知道，恐怖场景正在他们的家门口展现，这个恐怖事件吸引了全世界的关注，在整个欧洲引发了对激进的伊斯兰与西方之间的文明冲突上升的新担忧。
Corinne Rey, a cartoonist who goes by the pen name Coco, had just picked up her young daughter from school and was tapping in a security code to enter the building when two men in black commando garb, armed with AK-47 automatic machine guns, grabbed her and brutally forced her to open the door.
笔名为“可可”(Coco)的漫画家科琳娜·雷伊(Corinne Rey)刚从学校接回年幼的女儿，正在大楼门口按进入办公楼的密码，两名手持AK-47突击步枪、身穿黑色突击队服的男子抓住了她，残暴地强迫她打开大门。
“They wanted to get in and go up,” she later told the French magazine L’Humanité.
她后来对法国杂志《人道报》(L' Humanité)说，“他们要进去，要上楼。”
Pushed inside, Ms. Rey said she took refuge under a desk as the men entered the lobby and went to the welcome desk, where a security guard who had worked on the premises for 15 years, Frédéric Boisseau, was sitting.
雷伊说，她被推进去后，躲到了一个桌子底下，那两个男子进入大堂，走向接待桌，在楼里工作了15年的保安弗雷德里克·布瓦梭(Frédéric Boisseau)正坐在桌旁。
According to a witness quoted in the French news media, the killers opened fire, killing Mr. Boisseau and spraying the lobby with so much gunfire that some people thought a scaffold was falling.
法国媒体援引一名目击者的话说，行凶者开枪打死了布瓦梭，并向大堂猛烈射击，枪声之大使一些人以为脚手架倒了。
Moments later, according to witnesses, the men raced up the stairs, their machine guns at the ready, and headed to the editorial room.
据目击者称，片刻后，这两个男子跑上楼梯，他们的机枪准备就绪，径直冲向编辑室。
“Where is Charb? Where is Charb?” they shouted, using a widely known nickname for Mr. Charbonnier. Spotting their target, a trim, bespectacled man, the men aimed and fired.
他们大喊道：“沙博在哪儿？沙博在哪儿？”用的是沙博尼耶广为人知的昵称。看到目标后：一位身材优雅、戴着眼镜的男子，他们对他开了枪。
Then, witnesses said, they executed the newspaper’s chief cartoonists where they sat, frozen, before massacring nearly everyone else in the room in a hail of fire.
目击者说，随后，他们把枪转向呆坐在那里的报社主要漫画家们，把他们打死，然后用冰雹似的火力屠杀屋里几乎所有的人。
“It lasted about five minutes,” said Ms. Rey, shaken and afraid. “They spoke perfect French and claimed to be from Al Qaeda.”
“总共持续了大约五分钟，”深感震惊和害怕雷伊说。“他们讲流利的法语，自称来自基地组织。”
Sigolène Vinson, a freelancer who had decided to come in that morning to take part in the meeting, thought she would be killed when one of the men approached her.
当一个男子向自己走过来时，西戈莱恩·樊松(Sigolène Vinson)以为自己也会被打死，她是一位自由撰稿人，那天上午决定来参加会议。