STONEHAM, Mass. — When two bombs transformed last year's Boston Marathon into a war zone, the Norden family absorbed a double dose of grief. J.P., 34, and his brother Paul, 32, both strapping construction workers in their prime who were there to cheer on a friend, each lost a leg in the carnage.
马萨诸塞州斯托纳姆——当两枚炸弹令去年的波士顿马拉松赛成为战场时，诺登(Norden)一家承受的悲痛要格外多一些。34岁的J·P和他的弟弟、32岁的保罗(Paul)，两位正值盛年、身形魁梧的建筑工人，到现场给一位朋友加油，结果各自失去了一条腿。
Since then, they have slowly, achingly, been rebuilding their lives. After lengthy hospital stays and more than 50 surgeries between them, they are walking on prosthetic legs. They talk of starting a roofing business together. Both have moved out of their mother's house in this working class suburb just north of Boston and are living with their girlfriends. Paul is engaged.
自那以后，他们一直在缓慢地、痛苦地重建他们的生活。在医院住了很长时间，并一共接受了超过50场手术后，两人现在都可以用义肢行走了。他们在考虑合伙做屋顶维修生意。他们曾经住在波士顿以北一个劳动阶层聚居的郊区的母亲家里，现在都已经搬出来和他们的女友住。保罗已经订婚。
The Nordens do not want to dwell on what happened at the marathon or be defined by it. But the approach of the first anniversary is pulling them in. The occasion has assumed enormous symbolic significance as the survivors and Boston itself are determined to show their defiance and resilience. The formal observance will stretch out for almost a week starting April 15, the date of last year's bombings — which killed three people, wounded at least 260 and robbed 16 of various limbs — and continuing through April 21, the date of this year's marathon.
诺登家的人不想对马拉松赛那件事念念不忘，也不想让它成为自己的标签。但是第一个周年纪念日的临近把他们重新拽了进去。幸存者和波士顿市都一心想展现他们对暴行的藐视和自己的坚韧不拔，因此这场活动将会承载重大的象征意义。正式的纪念仪式从4月15日开始，也就是去年爆炸案发生那一天——爆炸导致三人丧生，至少260人受伤，16人进行了部位不一的截肢——将会持续将近一周，一直到4月21日本届马拉松开赛。
Like many others, the Nordens have been overwhelmed by the attention the anniversary is drawing. Tributes, panel discussions, concerts, fundraisers and television specials crowd the public calendar. And because the Nordens are promoting a book about their experience, the demands on their time have intensified. For them, the anniversary is a hump to get over. For now, the brothers have no time to go to the gym. They have postponed needed surgeries. Paul and his fiancée, Jacqui Webb, who was also injured in the blast, have delayed planning their wedding.
和许多人一样，周年纪念引来的注目也令诺登兄弟有些招架不住。追思会、嘉宾讨论、音乐会、筹款活动和电视特别报道，把他们的公开活动日程排得满满当当。诺登兄弟正在宣传一本讲述他们那段经历的书，时间因此变得非常紧张。对他们来说，周年纪念是一个需要挺过去的坎。现在两人已经没有时间去健身房。他们推迟了需要做的手术。保罗和未婚妻杰姬·韦伯(Jacqui Webb)已经推迟了对婚礼的规划。韦伯也在爆炸中受了伤。
Liz Norden, 51, a single mother of five, said that with her boys, as she calls them, on the mend, she has begun to grieve.
现年51岁的莉兹·诺登(Liz Norden)是一个单亲妈妈，有五个孩子，她说看着她的小子们——她这么称呼自己的儿子——正在康复，她才开始对那段经历感到悲伤。
“Now is the time where everything comes into play — my emotions, their emotions, the anniversary, the media,” she said. “It builds up. I cry now at the drop of a hat.”
“现在这时候什么都凑上来了——我的情绪、他们的情绪、周年纪念、媒体，”她说。“一点点攒起来。我现在稍微有点事就会哭起来。”
They are all drawn inexorably back to those horrifying moments on that spring day last year when, as Liz put it, their lives changed “in the blink of an eye.”
他们都不可避免地要回首去年春天那些可怕的瞬间，用莉兹的话说，他们的人生在当时“一眨眼间”就变了。
The first explosion, a block from where they were standing, confused J.P., Paul and Webb. As other spectators, screaming, began to flee, they tried to do the same. Paul and J.P. started to hoist Webb over metal barricades and into the street.
第一次爆炸离J·P、保罗和韦伯所在的位置有一个街区，当时他们都很茫然。看到其他的观众尖叫着开始逃离，他们也打算跑。保罗和J·P把韦伯抬起来放到金属路障的另一边，开始往街上跑。
Twelve seconds later a second bomb exploded outside the Forum restaurant, just a few feet from the Nordens and from 8-year-old Martin Richard, one of those killed in the blast.
12秒之后，第二枚炸弹在论坛餐厅外爆炸，离诺登兄弟和8岁的马丁·理查德(Martin Richard)只有几英尺远，后者正是在爆炸中丧生的三人之一。
J.P. lay on the sidewalk.
J·P躺在了人行道上。
“I tried to get up on this leg first,” he said the other day, gesturing to his right leg. “I couldn't. And I looked down and it was gone and I couldn't get up. My pants were on fire. My shirt was on fire.”
“一开始我想用这条腿站起来，”他有一次指着他的右腿说。“不行。我低头一看，腿已经没了，我站不起来。我的裤子着火了，衬衫也着火了。”
He rolled over to smother the flames and was quickly surrounded by medics and bystanders who whipped off their shirts and belts to apply as tourniquets to both his legs. He was soaked in blood. By the time he arrived at the hospital, he was barely alive.
他翻身想把火扑灭，医务人员和路人很快上来，脱下他们的衣服和皮带给他的两条腿当绑带。他浑身是血。被送至医院时已经奄奄一息。
Paul was just a few feet from J.P., sitting up but dazed. He stared at his right leg, which was off on its own, lying in the street with other detritus from the blast.
保罗在离J·P几英尺的地方不知所措地坐着。他盯着自己的右腿，它已经离开他的身体，横在街上，旁边满是爆炸后的碎片。
“My mind wanted me to reach for it, but my body wouldn't let me,” he recalled.
“我的意识告诉我要过去捡它，但我的身体做不到，”他回忆说。
The blast propelled Webb into the street, where she landed on her hands and knees. Her hands were burning so hot that her rings began to melt, and her right leg was gouged with shrapnel.
爆炸的冲击波把韦伯掀到了街上，手和膝盖着地。她的手受到高温烧灼，烫得连戒指都开始熔化，她的右腿则插满碎片。
The brothers were taken to different hospitals — J.P. to Brigham and Women's and Paul to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Both later recuperated at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital. J.P.'s girlfriend, Kelly Castine, stayed with him all 45 nights that he was hospitalized; Jonathan Norden, 28, the youngest of the brothers, stayed with Paul all 31 nights of his hospitalization.
两兄弟被分别送到了两家医院——J·P到布莱根妇女医院(Brigham and Women’s)，保罗到以色列堂-女执事医疗中心(Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center)。两人后来都转到斯波尔丁康复医院(Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital)进行恢复治疗。J·P的女朋友凯莉·卡斯汀(Kelly Castine)在他住院的45个夜晚一直在一旁陪伴；诺登一家的小儿子、28岁的乔纳森·诺登(Jonathan Norden)则在医院陪伴保罗度过了31个夜晚。
The One Fund Boston, the main fundraising effort for marathon bombing victims, distributed more than $61 million last summer to 230 people. The Norden brothers each received $1.2 million, and Webb received $600,000.
在去年夏天，为马拉松爆炸案受害人募捐的主要机构波士顿一基金(One Fund Boston)向230人发放了超过6100万美元善款。诺登兄弟各得到120万美元，韦伯得到60万美元。
Given their lifetime expenses for medical bills and prosthetics, the brothers are saving that money.
考虑到医疗账单和义肢带来的开销将伴其一生，两兄弟决定把这笔钱存下来。
“I would be scared to use it or blow it,” J.P. said. “I don't know what my life will bring, I don't know how work will be, I don't know what type of job I'll be capable of working.”
“我不敢使用或者挥霍它，”J·P说。“我不知道生活接下来会是怎么样，我不知道工作会怎么样，我不知道我能做什么样的工作。”
It is odd having to dedicate their so-called windfalls to something they would rather not have and are still getting used to. This is especially true for J.P. Although his amputation was below the knee and considered less traumatic than his brother's, he was more gravely injured overall and took much longer to get back on his feet. Paul started walking on his new leg on June 23; J.P. could not do so until the beginning of March.
要把这笔所谓的意外之财归因于他们本身就不想要、至今还无法适应的事情上，这是种古怪的感觉。对J·P尤其如此。他是在膝盖以下截肢的，被认为腿部伤势比弟弟轻，但他总体的伤势比弟弟重很多，恢复的时间也长得多。保罗是去年6月23日开始用新腿行走的；J·P直到三月初才做到。
“My proudest day was watching him just walk right by me,” J.P. said of his brother, who is 16 months younger. “But at the same time, it was like, damn, that sucks, I can't get up and walk next to him.”
“ 看到他从我身边走过，那是我最骄傲的日子，”J·P说起比自己小16个月的弟弟时如此表示。“但同时，又会想到，我不能站起来跟他一起走，可真差劲。”
J.P. is anticipating the day when a leg transplant would be possible. His doctor said the procedure might be available to him within a decade. But he cautioned that by then, J.P. might be so accustomed to his prosthesis he would not want someone else's leg or to go through the trauma of a transplant.
J·P希望，有朝一日腿部移植能够成为可能。他的医生说，也许10年内能够在他身上实现这种手术。不过，他也谨慎地说，到那时候，J·P或许已经非常习惯用假肢了，不想要别人的腿，或是不想经历移植的痛苦。
J.P. looked down at his prosthesis.
J·P朝下看了看自己的假肢。
“If you asked me now, I'd probably take someone else's leg,” he said. “But if you ask me in 10 years, I probably won't.”
“如果现在问我，我很可能会要别人的腿，”他说。“不过10年后再来问的话，我大概不会。”
Liz moved into a handicap-accessible house a few months after the marathon. But when Paul and J.P. first got out of the hospital, they went to her former house in nearby Wakefield. Its bedrooms were upstairs, giving Liz an endless workout.
马拉松过后几个月，莉兹搬进了一栋无障碍房屋。然而，当保罗和J·P刚出院的时候，他们回到了莉兹之前在附近的韦克菲尔德的房子。卧室位于楼上，让她忙个没完。
“I was like, `Ma, could you bring up my bag of pills?”' said J.P. “`Ma, can you do this? Can you do that?' Or I'd ring a bell or text her. `Ma, I'm in bed and can't get up again. Can you bring up my water?' And she would do it.”
“我会说，‘妈，能不能把我那袋药拿过来？’”J·P说。“‘妈，能不能做这个，干那个？’我还会摇铃或者给她发短信。‘妈，我在床上，又起不来了。能不能拿杯水来？’她就会照做。”
“I did it your whole life!” his mother interjected, good-naturedly. “Nothing has changed.”
“你这一辈子我都是这么干的！”他的母亲善意地插嘴。“一点也没变。”
Joking aside, she said she would do anything for her boys.
就算不是玩笑，莉兹也说自己会为儿子们干任何事情。
“But to me it's sad because they're adults,” she said. “There were times when you'd have to help Paul put his leg on. He's 32. He doesn't want his mother doing that.”
“不过我觉得，这挺伤感的，因为他们都成年了，”她说。“有时候我必须帮保罗把腿装上。他32岁了，不想要妈妈来做这种事。”
But Paul could hardly find the words to describe all that his mother had done.
保罗几乎难以用语言来表达母亲为他做的一切。
“She's meant the world to me my whole life,” he said. “I suffer from a lot of anxiety stuff, and she's just always there for me.”
“我这一辈子，她就是我的整个世界，”他说。“我常常为焦虑情绪所折磨，而她一直不离不弃。”
Liz won the “Unstoppable Mom” contest on ABC's “Live With Kelly and Michael” last month. One of her daughters, Caitlin, submitted an essay, and Liz won a trophy and $100,000. She plans to start a nonprofit to help her sons and others who lose legs.
上个月，莉兹赢得了ABC电视台《凯莉麦克面对面》节目的“无敌妈妈”竞赛。她的女儿凯特琳(Caitlin)寄去参赛文章，让莉兹赢得了一座奖杯和10万美元的奖金。她计划设立一个非营利组织，帮助儿子们，以及同样失去了腿的人。
But that, too, has been put on hold until after the anniversary.
不过，这件事也得等到周年活动以后。