In a letter left on Inauguration Day for President Trump that was both congratulatory and cautionary, Barack Obama urged the incoming president to guard democratic institutions and traditions, and “sustain the international order.”
特朗普总统就职典礼当天，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)在一封信中向他表示祝贺与告诫，敦促新总统保卫民主制度与传统，并“维护国际秩序”。
“This is a unique office, without a clear blueprint for success, so I don’t know that any advice from me will be particularly helpful,” Mr. Obama wrote in the letter, which CNN published on Sunday. “Still, let me offer a few reflections from the past 8 years.”
“这是一个独一无二的职位，没有一份明确的成功蓝图，所以我不知道什么样的建议会特别有帮助，”CNN于周日公布了奥巴马的这封信。“不过，我可以提供我对过去8年的一点反思。”
CNN reported the letter was written in longhand on White House stationery and left in the top drawer of the Resolute Desk in the Oval Office. The letter highlighted the concerns of a departing president who acknowledged the enormous responsibility of the job domestically and on the world stage.
据CNN报道，这封信是以白宫抬头的信纸书写的，被留在椭圆形办公室坚毅桌(Resolute Desk)的顶层抽屉里。该信强调了离任总统的关切，他承认这份工作要在国内与世界舞台上承担巨大的责任。
Mr. Obama wrote Mr. Trump, a billionaire who had family wealth and made fortunes in real estate, that “we’ve both been blessed, in different ways, with great good fortune,” adding, “Not everyone is so lucky.”
特朗普是一位出身豪门并靠房地产赚取大量财富的亿万富豪，奥巴马在信中对他说，“我们都以不同的方式得到上天的眷顾，”他补充说，“并不是每个人都有这样的幸运。”
It is important to “build more ladders of success for every child and family that’s willing to work hard,” he wrote. He emphasized that “our wealth and safety” depend on maintaining “the international order that’s expanded steadily since the end of the Cold War.”
他写道：“为每一个愿意勤奋工作的孩子和家庭建立更多通往成功的阶梯，”是很重要的。他强调，“我们的财富与安全”取决于维持“冷战结束以来稳步发展的国际秩序。”
He also made a case for preserving “instruments of democracy” regardless of what the “push and pull of daily politics” may bring.
他还解释了为什么不管“政治中司空见惯的相互掣肘”可能带来什么，也要维护“民主的途径”。
Mr. Trump has shown the letter to White House visitors, and one of them shared a copy with CNN, the network reported. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday.
据CNN报道，特朗普向白宫访客出示了这封信，其中一位访客与CNN分享了一份副本。周日，白宫没有立即回应置评请求。
It is a tradition for presidents who are leaving office to write letters to their successors offering advice and well wishes.
传统上，总统离职时会给继任者写信，提供建议，并表达良好的祝愿。
When George W. Bush left the Oval Office, he wrote to Mr. Obama: “There will be trying moments. The critics will rage. Your ‘friends’ will disappoint you. But, you will have an Almighty God to comfort you, a family who loves you, and a country that is pulling for you, including me.”
当乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)离开椭圆形办公室时，他写信给奥巴马说：“会有一些令人难以忍受的时刻。评论家会发怒。你的‘朋友’会让你失望。但是，全能的上帝会安慰你，家人会爱你，这个国家会支持你，包括我在内。”
Mr. Obama advised Mr. Trump to spend time with friends and family, and wrote, “Michelle and I wish you and Melania the very best as you embark on this great adventure, and know that we stand ready to help in any ways which we can.”
奥巴马建议特朗普多陪伴朋友与家人，并写道：“在你开始这次伟大的冒险之时，我和米歇尔向你和梅拉尼亚致以最美好的祝愿，我们会以任何方式尽可能地帮助你们。”
He wished Mr. Trump “Good luck and Godspeed,” and signed it “BO.”
他祝特朗普“好运，诸事顺利”，并署名“BO”。
Mr. Trump has spent much of his presidency trying to undo the Obama administration’s policies and regulations, leading The Washington Post to keep a tally of the uprooting. Even so, Mr. Trump has spoken warmly of the letter, telling ABC News in January that it was “beautiful” and “complex.”
特朗普在任期间花了大量时间努力撤销奥巴马政府的政策和法规，以致于《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)开始持续统计他所废除的各项规定。即使如此，特朗普也曾热情地谈起这封信，一月份，他在接受ABC新闻采访时说，这封信是“美丽”而“复杂”的。
“In fact, I called him and thanked him for the thought that was put into this letter,” Mr. Trump said.
“事实上，我打电话给他，感谢他在这封信中表示的想法，”特朗普说。
Here is the letter in its entirety, as reported by CNN:
以下是CNN报道的信件全文：
Dear Mr. President -
亲爱的总统先生：
Congratulations on a remarkable run. Millions have placed their hopes in you, and all of us, regardless of party, should hope for expanded prosperity and security during your tenure.
向您此次非凡的竞选表示祝贺。成千上百万人对你寄予厚望，无论哪个党派，我们大家都希望美国的繁荣与安全在你的任期内得到扩大。
This is a unique office, without a clear blueprint for success, so I don’t know that any advice from me will be particularly helpful. Still, let me offer a few reflections from the past 8 years.
这是一个独一无二的职位，没有一份明确的成功蓝图，所以我不知道什么样的建议会特别有帮助。不过，我可以提供我对过去8年的一点反思。
First, we’ve both been blessed, in different ways, with great good fortune. Not everyone is so lucky. It’s up to us to do everything we can (to) build more ladders of success for every child and family that’s willing to work hard.
首先，我们都以不同的方式得到上天的眷顾。并不是每个人都有这样的幸运。因此我们有责任竭尽所能，为每一个愿意勤奋工作的孩子和家庭建立更多通往成功的阶梯。
Second, American leadership in this world really is indispensable. It’s up to us, through action and example, to sustain the international order that’s expanded steadily since the end of the Cold War, and upon which our own wealth and safety depend.
其次，美国对这个世界的领导的确是不可或缺的。因此我们有责任通过行动和榜样维护冷战结束以来稳步发展的国际秩序，我们自身的财富与安全亦有赖于此。
Third, we are just temporary occupants of this office. That makes us guardians of those democratic institutions and traditions — like rule of law, separation of powers, equal protection and civil liberties — that our forebears fought and bled for. Regardless of the push and pull of daily politics, it’s up to us to leave those instruments of our democracy at least as strong as we found them.
第三，我们只是这个办公室的临时占有者。这令我们得以守护我们的祖先为之浴血奋斗的民主制度与传统——诸如法治、权力分立、平等保护与公民自由。不管政治中司空见惯的相互掣肘，我们都有责任让这些民主的途径至少同最初之时一样强大。
And finally, take time, in the rush of events and responsibilities, for friends and family. They’ll get you through the inevitable rough patches.
最后，在各种繁忙的活动与责任当中，要多陪伴朋友与家人。他们会帮你度过不可避免的艰难时期。
Michelle and I wish you and Melania the very best as you embark on this great adventure, and know that we stand ready to help in any ways which we can.
在你开始这次伟大的冒险之时，我和米歇尔向你和梅拉尼亚致以最美好的祝愿，我们会以任何方式尽可能地帮助你们。
Good luck and Godspeed,
祝好运，诸事顺利，
BO
BO