Nearly two decades ago, a landmark study found that by age 3, the children of wealthier professionals have heard words millions more times than those of less educated parents, giving them a distinct advantage in school and suggesting the need for increased investment in prekindergarten programs.
将近20年前，一项重大研究发现，较富裕的专业人士的子女在3岁时听到的单词量，比教育程度低的父母的子女要多上数千万个。因为这一差异，前者进入学校之后会有明显的优势。因此，研究人员建议要加大对于幼儿园前培训项目的投资。
Now a follow-up study has found a language gap as early as 18 months, heightening the policy debate.
而一项跟进的研究发现，幼儿在18个月大的时候，就已经出现了语言能力差异。相关的政策辩论会因这一发现而到达一个新的高度。
The new research by Anne Fernald, a psychologist at Stanford University, which was published in Developmental Science this year, showed that at 18 months children from wealthier homes could identify pictures of simple words they knew — “dog” or “ball” — much faster than children from low-income families. By age 2, the study found, affluent children had learned 30 percent more words in the intervening months than the children from low-income homes.
安娜•费尔南德(Anne Fernald)是斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的心理学家。她进行的这项新研究发表在今年的《发展科学》杂志(Developmental Science)上。研究显示，来自较富裕家庭的18个月大的婴儿，已经能够很快找到他们认识的简单单词对应的图片，例如「狗」或者「球」。他们的识别过程比来自低收入家庭的儿童要快得多。研究还发现，到两岁时，较富有家庭的儿童在过去六个月掌握的单词量，比来自低收入家庭的儿童要大30%。
The new findings, although based on a small sample, reinforced the earlier research showing that because professional parents speak so much more to their children, the children hear 30 million more words by age 3 than children from low-income households, early literacy experts, preschool directors and pediatricians said. In the new study, the children of affluent households came from communities where the median income was $69,000; the low-income children came from communities with a median income of $23,900.
幼儿识字专家、学前机构负责人及小儿科医师表示，虽然这项新研究的采样规模小，但是印证了前人研究，即职业为专业人士的父母对其子女说的话更多；到幼儿3岁时，前者比来自低收入家庭的儿童要多听到超过3000万个单词。在这项新研究中，来自富裕家庭的子女居住在收入中位数为69000美元的小区；而低收入家庭的儿童的小区收入中位数为23900美元。
Since oral language and vocabulary are so connected to reading comprehension, the most disadvantaged children face increased challenges once they enter school and start learning to read.
口语和词汇跟阅读理解能力息息相关。在进入学校开始学习阅读之后，在这方面处于最劣势的儿童将会遇到越来越大的困难。
“That gap just gets bigger and bigger,” said Kris Perry, executive director of the First Five Years Fund, an advocate of early education for low-income children. “That gap is very real and very hard to undo.”
克里斯•佩里(Kris Perry)是最初五年基金(First Five Years Fund)的执行董事，他说，「这方面的差距会变得越来越大。这个差距是实际存在的，而且很难弥合。」佩里一直倡导对低收入家庭儿童进行早期教育。
In the latest data available from the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University, 28 percent of all 4-year-olds in the United States were enrolled in state-financed preschool in the 2010-11 school year, and just 4 percent of 3-year-olds.
根据从罗格斯大学国立早教研究院(the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University)获得的最新数据，2010至2011学年，全美28%的四岁儿童参加了国家出资的学前班，而三岁儿童的入学率仅有4%。
The National Governors Association, in a report this month calling on states to ensure that all children can read proficiently by third grade, urges lawmakers to increase access to high-quality child care and prekindergarten classes and to invest in programs for children from birth through age 5. In New York, the Democratic mayoral candidate Bill de Blasio has said he would tax high-income earners to pay for universal prekindergarten in the city.
全美州长协会(National Governors Association)在本月公布的一份报告中呼吁，全美各州应当确保所有儿童在三年级时就能够熟练地阅读。该报告还敦促立法者提高优质托儿服务和幼儿园前课程的覆盖面，并加大投资，把重点放在对象为5岁前幼儿的项目上。在纽约，民主党市长候选人白思豪(Bill de Blasio)就表示，他将会对高收入人士征税，以资助全市范围的无差别幼儿园前教育。
“A lot of states are saying, ‘Let’s get to the early care providers and get more of them having kids come into kindergarten ready,’ ” said Richard Laine, director of education for the National Governors Association. That way, he said, “we’re not waiting until third grade and saying, ‘Oh my gosh, we have so many kids overwhelming our remediation system.’ ”
全国州长协会的教育主管理乍得•雷恩(Richard Laine)表示，「全美很多州都在表示，『我们去找早教服务供货商，让越来越多的机构提供服务，帮助小孩子们做好准备去上幼儿园。』」他说，通过采用这种方式，「我们就不用等到小孩子三年级了，才说，『我的天啊，我们怎么有那么多小孩子要接受教育矫正系统的帮助。』」
Currently, 17 states and the District of Columbia have policies requiring that third graders be held back if they do not meet state reading proficiency standards, according to the Education Commission of the States.
根据国家教育委员会(Education Commission of the States)的说法，现阶段，全美17个州和哥伦比亚特区已经出台政策，要求那些没有达到国家阅读能力标准的三年级小学生留级。
Now, with the advent of the Common Core, a set of rigorous reading and math standards for students in kindergarten through 12th grade that has been adopted by 45 states and the District of Columbia, educators say the pressure to prepare young children is growing more intense.
共同核心(Common Core)是为从幼儿园到12年级的学生制定的一整套严格的阅读和数学标准，这一标准已经被全美45个州和哥伦比亚特区所采纳。随着它的到来，教育界表示，帮助幼儿做好准备的压力越来越大。
Literacy experts have previously documented a connection between a child’s early vocabulary and later success in reading comprehension. In a study tracking children from age 3 through middle school, David Dickinson, now a professor of education at Vanderbilt University, and Catherine Snow, an education professor at Harvard University, found that a child’s score on a vocabulary test in kindergarten could predict reading comprehension scores in later grades.
之前，识字专家曾经记录过幼儿早期词汇量和日后阅读理解能力的关系。戴维•迪金森(David Dickinson)现在是范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)的教育学教授，其合作者凯瑟琳•斯诺(Catherine Snow)是哈佛大学(Harvard University)教育学教授。在一项追踪儿童从三岁到中学期间变化的研究中，他们发现幼儿在幼儿园的词汇测验成绩，能够预测实验对象在高年级的阅读理解分数的高低。
Mr. Dickinson said he feared that some preschool teachers or parents might extract the message about the importance of vocabulary and pervert it. “The worst thing that could come out of all this interest in vocabulary,” he said, “is flash cards with pictures making kids memorize a thousand words.”
迪金森说，他担忧一些学前老师和家长可能会对词汇重要性的信息片面解读，甚至滥用。他说，「痴迷于词汇量，最糟糕的结果是就是用带有图片的单词卡，让小孩子们死记硬背1000个单词。」
Instead, literacy experts emphasize the importance of natural conversations with children, asking questions while reading books, and helping children identify words during playtime.
恰恰相反，识字专家强调说，真正重要的是成人跟幼儿之间的自然沟通，以及在一起看书时向幼儿提问题，还有在游戏时帮助幼儿识字。
Middle class and more-affluent parents have long known that describing fruit at the supermarket or pointing out the shape of a stop sign are all part of a young child’s literacy education.
中产阶级和较富有的父母一直都明白，在超市描述水果，以及指出交通指示牌的形状，都是幼儿识字教育的一部分。
But even in low-income families, parents who speak to their children more frequently can enhance vocabulary. In separate research, Ms. Fernald, working with Adriana Weisleder, a graduate student in psychology, recorded all the words that 29 children from low-income households heard over a day.
但是，就算来自低收入家庭，只要父母更加经常地与子女说话，就能够提高子女的词汇量。在另一项研究中，费尔南德和心理学研究生阿德里亚纳•维斯勒德(Adriana Weisleder)一道，记录了来自低收入家庭的29名儿童一天之内能够听到的单词数目。
The researchers differentiated between words overheard from television and adult conversations and those directed at the children. They found that some of the children, who were 19 months at the time, heard as few as 670 “child-directed” words in one day, compared with others in the group who heard as many as 12,000.
这两位研究人员发现，幼儿从电视上和成人对话间听到的单词，不同于直接对幼儿所说的单词。他们发现，一些试验时19个月大的幼儿，一天听到的「直接对他们说的」单词仅有670个，而同组另一些幼儿能够听到的词汇高达1.2万个。
Those who had heard more words were able to understand words more quickly and had larger vocabularies by age 2.
到2岁的时候，那些听到更多单词的儿童能够更快地理解单词，词汇量也更大。
“Even in families that are low income and perhaps don’t have a lot of education, there are some parents that are very engaged verbally with their kids,” said Ms. Weisleder. “And those kids are doing better in language development.”
维斯勒德说，「就算家庭收入较低，家长也没有受过很多教育，但是总有一些家长一直在跟自己的小孩说话。这些小孩在语言能力的发展上表现得更加出色。」