SAN FRANCISCO — For more than a decade, Google’s search advertising business has seemed almost magical in its ability to mint money. But the magic is beginning to wear off as people spend more time on mobile devices, where the company makes less money on ads.
旧金山——过去十多年来，谷歌(Google)搜索广告业务似乎有着几近魔术般的生财能力。但是如今这种魔力开始慢慢减弱，因为人们开始更多地使用移动设备，而谷歌在这上面的广告就没那么能赚钱了。
Shareholders sent the stock up 8 percent in after-hours trading on Thursday, after Google’s better-than-expected third-quarter financial report. Still, the results revealed the company’s deep challenges: as its desktop search and advertising businesses mature, along with overall business in the United States, its growth rate is slowing and the amount of money it makes from each ad it sells is falling.
在谷歌拿出了好过预期的第三季度财报后，股东们在周四的盘后交易中将股票推高了8%。然而这份财报依旧暴露了公司面临的深层次挑战：随着桌面搜索、广告业务以及在美国的整体业务趋于成熟，公司的增长速度在放慢，单位广告销售盈利在下降。
The problem is that mobile ads cost half to two-thirds as much as desktop ads, yet they lead to purchases just a quarter to a third of the frequency that desktop ads do. That’s because advertisers have not yet figured out the best format for mobile ads, tracking the effectiveness of such ads is harder and buying things on small screens is more cumbersome for consumers.
问题在于移动广告的费用为桌面广告的一半到三分之二，虽然它们最终促成购买的几率仅为桌面广告的四分之一到三分之一。那是因为广告商还没找到移动广告的最佳形式，这类广告的效率跟踪相对比较难，在小屏幕设备上购买对消费者来说也更麻烦。
Google executives, on a call with analysts, acknowledged those challenges by emphasizing that they were embracing phones and other mobile devices, as well as nonadvertising businesses like hardware and business services.
在一次和分析师的电话会议上，谷歌高层表示对这个挑战是了解的，他们强调公司正在向手机和其他移动设备迈进，此外还在开发硬件和商务服务等非广告类业务。
“For years, everyone talked about the multiscreen world. Now it’s arrived, and on a scale few imagined,” said Larry Page, Google’s chief executive. Most consumers have more than one device, he said, and devices for people’s homes and bodies, like glasses and watches, will proliferate. The mention of watches was particularly intriguing because while Google has explored building a watch, it has not publicly announced one.
“多年来大家一直在谈多屏幕的世界。现在已成事实，而且是少有人预料到的程度，”谷歌首席执行官拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)说。他说多数消费者拥有不止一台设备，而家居使用以及眼镜、手表等佩戴使用的设备会出现激增。对手表的提及格外引人瞩目，谷歌在考虑制造一款手表，但还从未公开宣布过这个消息。
People activate 1.5 million Android devices a day and Google introduced its first Motorola phone, the Moto X. It has been encouraging advertisers to transition to mobile, like requiring them to buy mobile ads when they buy desktop ones, known as enhanced campaigns, and introducing new tools like one to track consumers across devices and tell marketers whether a consumer makes a purchase on a computer after researching an item on a phone.
每天有150万台Android设备被激活，而谷歌也推出了自己的首台摩托罗拉(Motorola)手机——Moto X。公司在鼓励广告商转向移动平台，比如所谓的“增强推广活动”，要求它们在购买桌面广告的同时也买移动版广告，同时推出了一些新工具，比如可以在各设备上跟踪消费者，然后告诉推广者，该消费者是否在手机上搜索某物品后，到电脑上进行了购买。
Mr. Page also addressed long-term research projects, like Calico, the new health start-up financed by Google to investigate aging and its causes. “It’s hard to spend meaningful amounts of money, relative to Google’s scale, on things that are speculative,” Mr. Page said. “You should probably be asking me to make more significant investments.”
佩奇还提到了一些长期研究项目，比如由谷歌提供资金支持的医疗创业公司Calico，打算调查人的衰老及其成因。“要将和谷歌的规模相称的、数量可观的一笔钱投在投机性的东西上是很困难的，”佩奇说。“你们也许应该要求我做出更多长远的投资。”
A closer look at Google’s revenue growth showed that it was largely driven by growth in some parts of Europe, Brazil and Japan, and by selling apps on Google Play, which returns little profit to the company.
仔细看谷歌的营收增长，可以发现主要的增长动力在欧洲的部分地区以及巴西和日本，还有Google Play上的应用销售，而这部分给公司带来的利润微乎其微。
“Over all, Google’s doing exactly what it should be doing, investing in emerging markets and in mobile technologies,” said Jordan Rohan, an Internet analyst at Stifel Nicolaus. “While we’re not seeing any profits related to that today, it’s inflating the revenue number and will someday lead to a more profitable business.”
“总的来说，谷歌在做的事，正是它应该做的，投资新兴市场和移动技术，”施蒂费尔·尼古劳斯公司(Stifel Nicolaus)的互联网分析师乔丹·罗恩(Jordan Rohan)说。“目前我们还没看到任何跟这些相关的盈利，但它们在推高营收，有朝一日会带来更多可盈利的业务。”
Yet in Google’s core business — the sale of ads — the price that advertisers pay each time someone clicks on an ad decreased for the eighth quarter in a row. It fell 8 percent from the same period last year, largely because mobile ads cost less than desktop ones.
然而在谷歌的核心业务，也就是广告销售上，广告商为每次广告被点击所支付的费用已经连续八个季度下降。相比去年同期下降了8%，主要是因为移动广告的费用比桌面少。
Google is still the leader in online advertising, earning 41 percent of all digital ad revenue and 53 percent of mobile ad revenue, according to eMarketer. Yet the advertising business is changing under its feet.
据eMarketer的数据，谷歌在网络广告上依然领先，拿走了所有数码广告收入的41%和移动广告收入的53%。然而广告业务正在它眼皮子底下发生转变。
People are spending vastly more time on mobile devices. Clicks on Google on computers last quarter were flat, while clicks on tablets increased 63 percent and clicks on phones more than doubled, according to the Search Agency, a digital marketing firm. At the same time, computer ads are becoming more personalized and increasingly automated.
人们使用移动设备的时间大大增加了。据数码营销公司Search Agency的数据，上季度谷歌在电脑上得到的广告点击数量是不升不降的，而平板电脑上的点击量增加了63%，手机上增加了一倍以上。与此同时，电脑广告正在变得更加个人化和自动化。
As the ad landscape changes, Google has been introducing new tools for advertisers. Last week, it announced a change that would allow it to show people’s social networking activity, like photos and comments, in ads across the Web. It is trying to capture TV ad dollars, including with two new products — Chromecast, a device for watching Web video on TVs, and Google Fiber, the ultra-high-speed Internet and TV connection now available in Kansas City, Kan.
随着广告业的形势转变，谷歌开始向广告商提供新工具。上周公司宣布了一项改动，让它可以将人们的照片、评论等社交网络活动显示在网络广告上。它在努力争取电视广告业务，包括推出了两款新产品——用于在电视上看网络视频的Chromecast，以及超高速互联网和电视接入服务Google Fiber，后者目前仅在堪萨斯州堪萨斯城可以用上。
Google’s ad innovations have prompted criticism from privacy advocates and some consumers. In recent weeks, Google faced an uproar over its plan to use personal information in ads and lawsuits over personalized ads in Gmail.
谷歌的广告创新已经引来隐私倡导者和一些消费者的批评。近几周，谷歌在广告中使用个人信息的计划掀起了轩然大波，而在Gmail中的个人化广告也惹来了官司。