HIROSHIMA, Japan — To the surprise of many who witnessed its incineration by an atomic bomb 70 years ago on Thursday, this city, like Japan itself, rebounded vigorously after World War II.
日本广岛——周四是广岛原子弹爆炸70周年纪念日，让目睹了广岛被原子弹焚毁的许多人感到惊讶的是，这座城市像整个日本一样，在第二次世界大战后，充满活力地复兴了。
The population, nearly halved by the new and terrifying American weapon nicknamed Little Boy, now exceeds 1.1 million, nearly three times what it was during the war. Mazda makes its sporty cars here. The company’s founding family owns the city’s baseball team, the Carp, which plays at Mazda Zoom-Zoom Stadium.
广岛的人口曾经因为那个新的、代号为“小男孩”(Little Boy)的可怕美国武器差不多减少了一半，但现在已经超过110万，几乎是其战争期间人口的三倍。马自达在这里制造其运动型多功能汽车。创建马自达公司的家族拥有该市的“广岛东洋鲤鱼”棒球队，球队常在马自达Zoom-Zoom体育场赛球。
Except for the bombed-out memorial dome at its center, on most days, Hiroshima looks and feels like any other Japanese metropolis.
除了城市中心保留的被炸毁的纪念圆顶之外，在大多数日子里，广岛看上去感觉与日本任何其他大城市都差不多。
But each year on Aug. 6, it again becomes a city of mourning. And one full of reminders — some delivered politely, some pointedly — of the most extreme dangers of modern warfare.
但在每年的8月6日，广岛会再一次成为一座哀悼的城市，也是一座充满警示的城市，这些警示的表达有的颇为客气、而有的则很尖锐。这些是对现代战争最极端的危险的警示。
This year, political leaders, aging survivors and ordinary citizens gathered at 8:15 a.m. on Thursday to mark the moment when the city unwillingly ushered the world into the nuclear age. The bomb that fell then, together with another dropped on Nagasaki three days later, killed more than 200,000 people, most of them civilians.
今年，政治领导人、老年幸存者，以及普通市民在周四上午8点15分聚集在此，纪念广岛无奈地将世界带入核时代的那个时刻。在那个时刻投下来的原子弹、连同三天后投在长崎的另一枚原子弹，总共炸死了20多万人，其中大多数是平民。
At a ceremony near the onetime industrial exhibition hall that has been preserved as a skeletal monument to the attack, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe renewed a longstanding Japanese pledge to seek worldwide elimination of nuclear weapons. The mayor of Hiroshima, Kazumi Matsui, accused “selfish” nuclear powers, including the United States, of standing in the way of that goal.
一座曾是工业展览馆的建筑残骸一直作为纪念物保留着，在距其不远的地方举行的一个仪式上，安倍晋三首相重申了日本寻求在全球消毁核武器的长期承诺。广岛市长松井和美指责包括美国在内的“自私”有核国家阻碍这一目标的实现。
Mr. Abe and other dignitaries placed wreaths in front of the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park’s eternal flame, with its placard that reads: “Rest in peace. We will not make the same mistake again.” A minute of silence was punctuated by the ringing of a temple gong.
安倍晋三等政要在广岛和平公园的长明灯前献了花环，公园的纪念碑上刻着：“让人们的灵魂在这里和平地安息吧！我们再不要重复错误！”一分钟的默哀以寺庙的锣声结束。
The memorial was witnessed by the United States ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, who was only the second American envoy to attend such a commemoration. Her predecessor, John V. Roos, first did so five years ago, on the 65th anniversary of the bombing, in a shift that was seen as symbolic of the Obama administration’s commitment to advancing the cause of nuclear disarmament.
美国驻日本大使卡罗琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)参加了纪念仪式，在她之前，只有一位美国大使参加过这类纪念活动。她的前任约翰·V·鲁斯(John V. Roos)，在五年前的广岛原子弹爆炸65周年时，首次参加了纪念活动，那被视为奥巴马政府致力于推动核裁军事业的象征性的转变。
But a visit to Hiroshima by President Obama himself, which many in Japan hoped would follow, never came — much less an apology by the United States for dropping the bomb. Longing for an apology has persisted here even as Japan struggles to come to terms with atrocities committed by its own forces during the war.
那之后，许多日本人曾期待奥巴马总统本人会亲临广岛，但这一直没有发生，美国也从未对投原子弹道过歉。这里的人们一直没有打消让美国道歉的渴望，尽管日本难以接受自己的军队在战争期间犯下了暴行。
The anniversary came at an awkward time for Mr. Abe, who is pursuing unpopular policies on two issues linked closely in the public’s mind with the bombings: national defense and nuclear energy. Small groups of demonstrators gathered at the edge of the ceremony grounds to protest moves by his government to pare back postwar restrictions on the military and restart nuclear power plants idled after meltdowns at a plant in Fukushima in 2011.
今年纪念到来的时间对安倍晋三来说颇为尴尬，他正在国防与核能这两个问题上推出不受欢迎的政策，而这两个问题在公众心目中与投放原子弹紧密相关。小部分示威者聚集在仪式场地边缘，抗议安倍政府想逐步减少战后对日本军队限制的打算，也抗议政府重新开启自2011年福岛事故后一直停运的核电站的计划。
Kohei Oiwa, an 83-year-old bomb survivor, sat silently through Mr. Abe’s remarks at the ceremony but criticized him bluntly afterward. He condemned legislation now before Parliament that would allow Japanese forces to fight overseas, in limited situations, for the first time since the war. And he criticized as hypocritical the government’s repeated pledges to help rid the world of nuclear weapons. Japan, he noted, accepts the protection of the United States, its former enemy turned close ally, including the deterrent provided by the American nuclear arsenal.
83岁的广岛原子弹爆炸幸存者大岩康平（Kohei Oiwa，音译）在安倍晋三讲话时静静地坐在那里，但在讲话结束后，对其作了直截了当的批评。大岩康平谴责了日本国会目前正讨论的立法，立法将允许日本军队在有限的情况下去海外作战，这将是战后的首次。他还批评政府对帮助世界消除核武器的多次承诺是虚伪的。他指出，日本接受昔日的敌人、如今的亲密盟友美国的保护，包括美国核武器库所提供的威慑性保护。
“Abe’s peace is a phony peace,” Mr. Oiwa said as he waited in line to lay his own bouquet of flowers in front of the eternal flame.
“安倍晋三的和平是虚假的和平，”大岩先生在排队等待把自己的一束花放到长明灯前时说。
Such sentiments are widely shared by bomb survivors. After the ceremony, the leaders of seven groups representing survivors delivered a letter to Mr. Abe demanding that he withdraw the proposed legislation on military deployments. Yet while there are still close to 200,000 officially recognized survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Their average age is over 80, and their numbers are quickly dwindling.
这种情绪在原子弹爆炸的幸存者中相当普遍。仪式结束后，七个代表幸存者的组织的领导人向安倍晋三递交了一封信，要求他撤回有关军事部署的立法提议。然而，虽然得到官方承认的广岛和长崎原子弹爆炸的幸存者仍有近20万名之多，但他们的平均年龄已经在80岁以上，他们的人数正在迅速减少。
The mayor, Mr. Matsui, also took clear if indirect aim at Mr. Abe. In his official “peace declaration,” he criticized a desire often expressed by the prime minister and other conservatives to change the war-renouncing Constitution imposed by the victorious United States. Three generations after the conflict, they argue, Japan should be less constrained by its consequences.
长岛市长松井和美也对安倍晋三作了明确的、尽管是间接的批评。在松井和美的官方“和平宣言”中，他批评了首相及其他保守派人士经常表达的修宪愿望，战胜国美国强加于日本的战后宪法宣布放弃战争。支持修宪的人辩称，战争结束后已经过了三代人的时间，日本应该能减少其所受的战争后果的制约了。
Mr. Matsui, however, said, “It is demanded that the path to true peace indicated by the pacifism of the Japanese Constitution be spread to the world.”
松井和美说，但是，“更高的要求是，把日本宪法的和平主义所表达的通向真正和平的道路传播到世界各地。”
Most of Hiroshima’s residents are less overtly political. Kazue Ichikawa, 77, who came to the ceremony with her daughter and granddaughter, said she was in the yard of a Buddhist temple that served as a wartime primary school when the bomb exploded. It was just far enough away that she and her classmates were spared.
广岛的大多数居民对政治没有明显的兴趣。77岁的市川一恵（Kazue Ichikawa，音译）带着女儿和外孙女参加了仪式，她说，原子弹爆炸时，她正在战时被用作小学的一个佛教寺庙的院子里。寺庙离爆炸中心足够远，所以她和她的同学幸免于难。
“The force knocked me over a gravestone,” she said.
“爆炸的力量把我推倒在一个墓石上，”她说。