Warning: this post contains spoilers about Sunday’s episode of “Mad Men.”
警告：本文包含周日一集《广告狂人》(Mad Men)的剧透。
Many “Mad Men” cast members have departed over  six and a half seasons of that AMC drama, but no one has done it quite like Robert Morse.
AMC台剧集《广告狂人》播出六季半之后，很多演员都离开了，但没有人像罗伯特·默斯(Robert Morse)这样离开。
In Sunday’s installment, Bertram Cooper, the veteran advertising executive played by Mr. Morse, watches the Apollo 11 moon landing on television and dies soon after – only to reappear in a fantasy witnessed by Don Draper (Jon Hamm), in which Cooper sings and dances along to “The Best Things in Life Are Free,” a vintage show tune from the 1927 musical “Good News.”
在周日的一集里，默斯饰演的资深广告经理伯特伦·库珀(Bertram Cooper)看着电视上的阿波罗11号登月，不久便与世长辞，但又在唐·德雷珀（Don Draper，乔恩·哈姆[Jon Hamm]饰演）的幻想中出现，伴随着1927年的音乐剧《好消息》(Good News)中的老歌《生命中最好的事都是免费的》(The Best Things in Life Are Free)载歌载舞。
The surprise musical number recalls Mr. Morse’s other identity as a song-and-dance man, and a star of the stage and film musical “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.” (He won a Tony Award in 1962 for playing that show’s endearing schemer, J. Pierrepont Finch, in its original Broadway production.)
这段惊人的歌舞表演让人想起默斯还有歌舞演员这个身份，曾经主演过舞台剧和音乐电影《我们不用很麻烦很累就可以很成功》(How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying)。1962年，他因为在这个剧最早的百老汇版本中出演讨人喜欢、有心计的J·皮莱庞特·芬奇(J. Pierrepont Finch)获得托尼奖。
But Mr. Morse’s extended skill set was one that Matthew Weiner, the “Mad Men” creator, was reluctant to utilize until the actor’s final appearance.
但《广告狂人》的主创马修·韦纳(Matthew Weiner)却不情愿利用默斯的这些才能，直到他最后一次在剧中出现。
“It was really tough in the first few seasons of the show to not bring it up,” said Mr. Weiner, who wrote Sunday’s episode, “Waterloo,” with Carly Wray. “Bobby has so many gifts, and he played a character who is politically very far from the person that he is.”
“在这部剧集的最初几季中，不把它亮出来真的很难，”韦纳说，周日的这一集《滑铁卢》是他与卡利·雷(Carly Wray)合写的。“鲍比有很多才能，他饰演的角色在政治上和他本人差距非常大。”
“But we did a fund-raiser once where I saw Bobby sing again,” Mr. Weiner continued, “and I saw that he still had it — that boyish charm and everything. I realized that there was an opportunity, in his death, to bring him back in Don’s mind, as a slightly different character.”
“但在我们搞的一场募捐上，鲍比又唱歌了，”韦纳说，“我看到他仍然拥有这种男孩子气的魅力等等诸如此类的一切。我发现还有机会，在他死后，让他回到唐的心中，成为一个有点不一样的形象。”
As for “The Best Things in Life Are Free,” Mr. Weiner said, “It is a very simple song with a very simple message: Life is bigger than business.”
至于《生命中最好的事都是免费的》，韦纳说，“这是一首简单的歌，传达一个简单的信息：生活比生意重要。”
In an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Morse, 83, spoke about his success on — and departure from — “Mad Men.” These are edited excerpts from that conversation.
在周二的访谈中，83岁的默斯先生说起了他在《广告狂人》中取得的成功与离开该剧的情况。对话节选经过编辑。
Q. Was it bittersweet for you to leave “Mad Men,” or are you glad to have had such a memorable exit?
问：离开《广告狂人》是不是一种苦乐参半的感觉，或者你为这种难忘的离开方式感到高兴？
A. I had no idea what I was in for. My phone has been ringing off the hook. And they’re not really hooked anymore. I’ve got an inbox that has been overflowing and Facebook has been going crazy. All I can say is, what a send-off! Exit left, and don’t stop at the door. [laughs] The opportunity to shine in the spotlight that Matt Weiner gave me — it was an absolute love letter. Christmas and New Year’s, all rolled into one.
答：我也没料到会有这样的反响。我的电话一直响个不停。我的收件箱已经满了，Facebook主页像疯了一样。我能说的是：多隆重的送行啊！从左边退场，别在门口停下（大笑）。马特·韦纳给了我受人关注的机会，简直就像情书。再加圣诞与新年贺卡，全都加在一起。
Q. But how do you keep that momentum going if you’re not on the show?
问：离开该剧以后，你怎么把势头保持下去呢？
A. I called Matt this morning and I said, how about “Mad Men: The Musical?” [Laughs] Can’t you see it? Bert keeps reappearing, singing and dancing, and sharing his words of wisdom with the team. “Brotherhood of Man” for Roger. “Sit Down, You’re Rockin’ the Boat” for Pete. “Don’t Rain on My Parade” for Joan. “Look to the Rainbow” for Peggy.
答：今天上午我给马特打电话说，拍个《广告狂人：音乐剧》怎么样？（大笑）你觉得呢？让伯特时不时出现以下，唱歌、跳舞，对团队说点充满智慧的话。给罗杰唱《兄弟情》(Brotherhood of Man)，给皮特唱《坐下，你这是在捣乱》(Sit Down, You’re Rockin’ the Boat)，给琼唱《别在我的队列下雨》(Don’t Rain on My Parade)，给佩吉唱《看那彩虹》(Look to the Rainbow)。
Q. Was it a challenge for you to have spent all this time on a show about a 1960s workplace without ever acknowledging your alter ego of J. Pierrepont Finch?
问：对你来说，一直在这样一部反映20世纪60年代职场的戏里工作，不触及你J·皮莱庞特·芬奇这一面的人格，是不是一种挑战呢？
A. I was quite elated when Matt called me, and said we’d love you to do this show. He did mention to me at that time that he really remembered me from Broadway and “How to Succeed.” I said I’d be happy to be Bertram Cooper, chairman of the board, and sit behind a desk. It looked like the road company of “How to Succeed.” I remember going down the aisle the first few weeks and singing “A Secretary Is Not a Toy.” And all the girls looked at me — they were very young and most of them didn’t know what the hell I was saying. It was a different age and there’s a few of us left.
答：马特给我打电话，说我们很想让你来演这部剧的时候，我很兴奋。他当时的确对我说，他记得我在百老汇和《我们不用很麻烦很累就可以很成功》中的表现。我说我很高兴出演伯特伦·库珀这个董事会主席，坐在桌子后面。感觉好像是《我们不用很麻烦很累就可以很成功》里的巡回剧团。我记得最初几周，我在走廊里边走边唱《秘书不是玩具》(A Secretary Is Not a Toy)。姑娘们都看着我，她们都很年轻，大多数人都不知道我到底在说什么。那是完全不同的时代，还剩我们几个老家伙。
Q. So how did you learn that your time as Bert was coming to an end?
问：你是怎样得知你作为伯特的生涯走到了尽头？
A. A few weeks ago, Matt said, “Bobby, I’m sorry to tell you but you do pass away.” And I went, “I understand. It’s better to go that way than when you wrote for ‘The Sopranos.’” But he said, “I have an idea that you come back at the end of the show and you see Jon Hamm, and you sing to him.” It served to emphasize the episode’s message, so I was very happy about it. I didn’t want to be, Robert Morse is going to sing a song. I wanted to be Bert Cooper and to keep it very simple.
答：几星期前，马特说：“鲍比，我很遗憾地告诉你，你得死了。”我说：“我理解，这比你写《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)时强。”但他说：“我有个主意，到剧末你可以回来见乔恩·哈姆，还对他唱歌。”这可以强调这一集要传达的信息，所以我很乐意这样做。我不想弄成：罗伯特·默斯要唱歌了。我想让伯特·库珀唱歌，把它弄得非常简单。
Q. How was that musical sequence prepared?
问：这段音乐是怎么准备的？
A. I had a wonderful choreographer, Mary Ann Kellogg, and we worked on it for three or four days, five days, in secrecy. No one was to know, not even my wife or family; no one knew what was going to happen. Nobody knew beforehand. We sang the song three or four times with a 30-piece orchestra, Matt was there. I rehearsed with the dancers and a few days later, Matt came in to see what we had done and said, “It’s going to work.” Then we filmed it in about six or seven hours. I breathed easily and took it easily, as Matt wanted. No great histrionics. Weeks later, I would say to Matt, “I haven’t seen it — is it O.K.?” I was very insecure. “Bobby, I’ve shown it to all the writers and it’s going to be wonderful. Don’t worry about it.”
答：我有个很棒的编舞，玛丽·安·克罗格(Mary Ann Kellogg)，我们为它秘密合作了三四天，五天。没人知道，就连我妻子和家人也不知道；没人知道到时会发生什么。没人提前看过。我们在一个30人管弦乐队伴奏下唱了三四次，马特也在。几天后我又和舞者们排练，马特过来看我们干得怎么样，他说：“会很棒的。”然后我们又花了六七个小时拍摄。像马特希望的那样，我很松弛，很放松。没怎么装模作样。几星期后，我对马特说，“我还没看到样片呢，还可以吗？”我非常不安。他说：“鲍比，我给所有编剧都看过了，会很棒的，别担心。”
Q. And Jon Hamm is watching you as you perform it?
问：你表演的时候乔恩·哈姆也在看吗？
A. Oh, yes. He was there for me when we filmed the scene. He would be very, very helpful. To see his expression as he watched me, it was wonderful.
答：啊，对。拍那场戏的时候他也在那儿支持我。他非常非常有帮助。看着他看我的表情感觉非常好。
Q. And you’re about to do “In Your Arms,” a new musical work, for Powerhouse Theater at Vassar College — will you be in your full song-and-dance mode?
问：你就要去出演瓦萨大学发电站剧场的新音乐剧《在你怀中》(In Your Arms)了，到时你会载歌载舞吗？
A. You probably know more about it than I do. I don’t think it’s that kind of thing. It’s a couple of people on the beach — elderly people — and that’s all I know about it. But I’m going there with an open heart and open arms. I don’t know if I can do 10 shows a week, but going back to Vassar to do this, that’s where I started with “Tru” [for which Mr. Morse won a second Tony Award]. And who knew where we were going, or if it would be all right? And look what happened.
答：你知道的可能比我还多。我想可能不是那样。那是几个老人在海滩上——我只知道这些。我会带着开放的心态和怀抱到剧组去。我不知道自己能不能一星期演十场，但我要回到瓦萨去表演了，我当初就是在那里开始演《特鲁》(Tru)的（该剧为默斯赢得了第二个托尼奖）。谁知道我们能走多远，谁知道会不会成功呢，看看会怎么样吧。
Q. Is the choreography from “How to Succeed” still locked in your muscle memory? Is it irresistible to break into “I Believe in You” every time you look at yourself in a mirror?
问：你还牢牢记着《我们不用很麻烦很累就可以很成功》的舞步吗？你会不会每次照着镜子，忍不住就跳起《我相信你》(I Believe in You)来？
A. I’ve been often asked to do it, little places here and there. I will say that what’s locked in my memory is Bob Fosse teaching me the dance steps when we were in rehearsal. I wasn’t that fast, and he said, “Go into the other room please, Bobby, with my assistant, and learn it, and then come back in three days, and I will be ready for you, because I’ll have rehearsed all the dancers who will know it before this sentence I’m speaking is over.” That’s how fast dancers are. So I went to see the assistant and learned much of the movement from her. And the assistant’s name was Gwen Verdon. I went: “Gulp.”
答：人们总是让我这么做，在各种小地方。我确实牢牢记住了鲍勃·弗斯在排练时教给我的舞步。我学得不快，他说：“和我的助理到另一个房间去学，鲍比，三天之内回来，我会等你的，因为我得帮所有舞蹈者排练，他们不等我把这句话说完就能明白。”学得快的舞者就是这样。所以我去找助理，从她那儿学了很多舞步。那个助理的名字叫格温·弗登（Gwen Verdon，著名演员、舞蹈艺人，曾获托尼奖——译注）。我说：“不会吧！”