So many babies poured into a government-run “baby hatch” in the southern city of Guangzhou after it opened in January that the overwhelmed institution has had to stop taking in any more.
在中国南部广州市，一个由政府运营的“婴儿安全岛”自今年1月份开设以来接收了大量弃婴，由于不堪重负，该机构不得不暂时关闭。
Between the opening on Jan. 28 of what is known in Chinese as a “baby safety island,” at the city’s social welfare institute, and its closing on Sunday, 262 babies had been left, anonymously, by parents who felt they could not care for them. At more than five babies a day, that was too much for the institution to cope with, Xu Jiu, its director, told Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
这个“婴儿安全岛”是由广州社会福利院开设的。从1月28日设立，到上周日被关闭，共有262名婴儿被父母匿名遗弃在这里。这些父母觉得自己无力抚养它们。广州社会福利院院长徐久上周日告诉国有媒体新华社，平均每天要接收五个以上的婴儿，数量之大让该机构应付不过来。
The baby avalanche at the Guangzhou hatch, which officials say will open again one day, suggests an enormous need for social services for people with severely ill or disabled children. Almost all the babies left in the hatch have physical problems that would require expensive medical treatment, according to officials quoted by the state media. What started as a progressive social experiment aimed at saving lives proved too popular.
官员们说，广州的婴儿安全岛会重开。大量涌入的弃婴意味着，患有严重疾病或残疾的儿童的父母对社会服务有巨大的需求。新华社援引的一些官员的话报道说，几乎所有弃婴都患有生理疾病，需要昂贵的治疗费用。原本旨在挽救一些生命的进步社会试点项目，结果却遇到了超出预期的庞大需求。
The Chinese Civil Affairs Ministry supports setting up hatches around the country, state news outlets have said. The hatches have a long history in the West that is closely tied to the Roman Catholic Church, which offered parents a place to leave their newborn babies to be raised by the church or in orphanages.
一些国有媒体报道说，中国民政部支持在全国各地设立婴儿安全岛。婴儿安全岛的做法在西方有很长的历史，与罗马天主教会密切相关，该教会曾为父母提供遗弃婴儿的地方，而弃婴则由教会或孤儿院抚养。
Their use became popular again in Europe when a hatch opened in Hamburg in 2000, and there are now scores in Germany and across Central and Eastern Europe. Supporters say the hatches save lives by offering desperate parents an alternative to infanticide or abandoning a child in dangerous conditions.
2000年，汉堡开设了一处婴儿安全岛，随后，这种做法在欧洲又流行了起来。目前在德国以及整个欧洲中东部，已经有了几十个婴儿安全岛。支持者说，这些安全岛挽救了婴儿的生命，为绝望的父母提供了一种选择，从而可以避免他们把婴儿杀掉，或遗弃在危险的环境中。
But they are controversial, with some arguing that they deprive a child of the right to know its biological parents. The United Nations has expressed concern at the anonymity of the procedure. Currently, Germany is formulating a law to offer mothers “confidential birth” in a hospital, where they can leave their baby, and register their identity, to be disclosed to the child at the age of 16.
但这种做法也饱受争议，一些人认为，这剥夺了儿童知道自己生身父母是谁的权利。联合国曾表达过对这种做法允许人们匿名遗弃婴儿的担忧。目前，德国正在制定一部法律，在医院为产妇提供“保密生产”的服务，她们可以把孩子留在这家医院，登记自己的身份，被遗弃的孩子在16岁的时候可以获得这些信息。
China’s first baby hatch was set up in June 2011 in Shijiazhuang, the capital of Hebei Province. Since then, two dozen more have been opened in 10 provinces or major cities, with others planned in 18 other sites around the country, according to Xinhua and Global Times, a newspaper. Typically the hatches are padded, with a small door to the outside and another into the institution, to allow the easy deposit and retrieval of infants.
根据新华社和《环球时报》的报道，中国的第一个婴儿安全岛是2011年6月在河北省会石家庄设立的。此后，在中国的10个省份和主要城市又开设了20几个婴儿安全岛，目前正计划在中国另外18个地方开展这一项目。一般来说，这些婴儿安全岛内都装有软垫，有一个小门通向外面，还有一个口通向机构内部，这是为了方便留下和取走婴儿。
“Although we cannot change the abandonment of babies, we can change the results after they are dumped,” Han Jinhong, the head of the Shijiazhuang social welfare institute, told Global Times.
石家庄社会福利院院长韩金红告诉《环球时报》，“我们改变不了遗弃这一行为，但可以改变遗弃的结果。”
In the past, only about a third of abandoned babies in Shijiahuang survived, said Mr. Han, but the death rate has fallen sharply since the hatch opened.
韩金红说，过去，只有大约三分之一的弃婴能够活下来，自从设置了婴儿安全岛之后，死亡率已经大大降低。
Nor was it encouraging more people to abandon their babies, he said. The social welfare institute received a total of 188 children in 2009 and 2010. Since June 2011, when the hatch opened, it has taken in 181 children, he said.
他说，这种做法并没有促使更多人遗弃他们的婴儿。这家社会福利院2009年和2010年共接收了188名儿童。他说，2011年6月设置婴儿安全岛以来，已经接收了181个孩子。