GUANGZHOU, China — Slack-jawed and perspiring, Chen Weizhou gazed at a pair of life-size female dolls clad, just barely, in lingerie and lace stockings. Above these silicone vixens, an instructional video graphically depicted just how realistic they felt once undressed.
广州——那对真人大小的人偶几乎完全赤裸，身上只有内衣和蕾丝袜略作遮盖，陈伟周（音译）看得瞠目结舌、额头冒汗。在这些硅胶制作的靓女上方的屏幕上，正在播放一段介绍视频，生动地描述着宽衣解带后，这些人偶的触感有多么真实。
A 46-year-old tour bus driver, Mr. Chen had come earlier this month to the Guangzhou National Sex Culture Festival “for fun,” which was not how he described intimacy with his wife, who did not attend. “When you’re young sex is so mysterious, but once you’re married it gets really bland,” he said, barely taking his eyes off the screen.
这位46岁的旅游巴士司机本月早些时候来这里参观全国（广州）性文化节是因为“好玩”，可是陈伟周并不会这么形容与他妻子的亲密关系。他的妻子没和他一起来。他说，“年轻的时候性很神秘，可是结婚之后，就会变得特别平淡。”他说这话时，眼睛几乎没有离开屏幕。
With an official theme of “healthy sex, happy families,” the 11th annual exposition sought to remedy the plight of Chinese men like Mr. Chen — and their wives, if they are married.
一年一度的展会已经举办到了第11届，这次的官方主题是“健康的性，幸福的家”。今年的性文化节希望以此慰藉像陈伟周这样的中国男人，还有他们的妻子（如果他们结婚了的话）。
The overwhelming presence of men at the festival mirrored a demographic imbalance in China, where decades of the one-child rule and a cultural preference for sons combined with illegal sex-selective abortions have distorted the country’s gender ratio to 118 newborn boys for every 100 girls in 2012, rather than the normal 103 boys. In Guangdong Province, home to a migrant worker population of 30 million — China’s largest — the scarcity of women leaves bachelors with limited options.
现场男性的比例占压倒性多数，这也映射出了中国人口结构的失衡。已经实行几十年的计划生育政策，以及喜欢男孩的文化倾向，再加上非法的选择胎儿性别的堕胎行为，扭曲了中国的性别比例。2012年的新生儿中，男女比例为118:100，超过了103:100的正常水平。广东省有3000万外来务工者，是中国数量最多的，而由于缺少女性，单身汉们并没有多少选择。
Filling an exhibition center here in the capital of Guangdong in southern China, the festival was a three-day mating ritual between capitalism and hedonism, all diligently observed by that most prudish of chaperones: the Chinese government. Erotic possibilities abounded, including a transgender fashion show, sliced deer antler marketed as an aphrodisiac, naughty nurse costumes and some flesh-colored objects disconcertingly called “Captain Stabbing.”
在广州的一座会展中心举办的这次性文化节，受到了中国政府这个最为古板的监护人的密切关注。它是资本主义与享乐主义的媾合仪式，充斥着各种勾起情欲的可能性，如变性时装秀、被宣传具有催情作用的切片鹿茸、挑逗性的护士服，还有一些名字让人难堪的肉色器具——叫做“戳戳上校”(Captain Stabbing)。
Three decades after China began shedding its priggish Mao-era mores, sex is now a big business here. Across the country, pink-lit “hair salons” staffed by provocatively garbed women compete with massage parlors and late-night paid companions who slip their business cards under hotel room doors. Those looking to enhance their encounters can shop at countless “adult health product” stores and on the Internet.
在中国开始摆脱毛泽东时代严苛的道德观30年后的今天，性在这里已经成了一个巨大的产业。在中国各地，亮着粉红色灯光的“发廊”里，坐着衣着撩人的女子；按摩店招揽客人上门；收费陪客人过夜的小卡片则会塞进酒店房间的门缝。那些希望改善欢会时感受的人们，可以在数不胜数的“成人保健品”商店里和互联网上买到自己想要的东西。
Most of the inventory is made in China. According to state news media, more than 1,000 Chinese companies manufacture around 70 percent of the world’s sex toys, generating $2 billion a year as of 2010.
出售的多数货品都是中国制造的。官方媒体报道，1000多家的中国企业制造了全世界70%的性玩具。截至2010年，年收入高达20亿美元（约合121亿元人民币）。
The bounty of carnal titillation must contend with the firm hand of the Communist Party, which bans pornography and punishes those guilty of “group licentiousness” in the name of protecting traditional Chinese values. But the party’s moral authority has frayed of late because of the publicized antics of its friskier members. In June, a government official was sentenced to 13 years in prison for corruption after a video surfaced showing him in bed with an 18-year-old woman. His fall came three months after photos depicting a coterie of six naked people, including a party official and his wife, exploded on the Internet.
通过撩动欲火来赚钱的产业，需要和党强硬的控制过招，后者禁止色情作品，并且会以维护中国传统价值观的名义惩治犯有“聚众淫乱”罪行的人。但是近些年来，党的道德权威已经不复当初，因为一些心思活络的党员做出的荒唐举动被公之于众。今年6月，一名政府官员因腐败被判处13年徒刑，此前，他与一名18岁女子同床的视频流入公众视野。在他被判刑的三个月前，六名赤裸男女的一些照片在互联网上广泛传播，其中有一名党内官员和他的妻子。
In an attempt to give the sex festival a veneer of respectability, government-run medical organizations sponsored booths in a side room, which were, unsurprisingly, desolate. The main draw was lust.
为了给性文化节打上值得尊敬的旗号，政府经营的医疗机构在侧面的一个展厅也摆设了展位，不出意外的是，那里无人问津。最吸引人的还是情欲。
Thousands of visitors, nearly all middle-aged men wielding cameras, poured through the aisles in search of any visible flesh. “Guys have been taking my picture all day,” said a bikini-clad model, Liang Lin, 23, who was hugging her bare midriff defensively as a throng of men jostled desperately to get a better shot.
成千上万名参观者，几乎全部都是拿着相机的中年男人，挤过展厅的走道捕捉着任何一片裸露的肌肤。“那些男人们一整天都在拍我的照片，”23岁的模特梁琳（音译）身穿比基尼，心存戒备地把手放在小腹上，而此时一群男人则急迫地推推搡搡，想要找个更好的角度拍照。
Not far away, a male crowd waited for a diminutive Japanese pornography star named Rei Mizuna to appear. When she finally emerged from a dressing room to hand out racy autographed photos, her frenzied fans surged forward with such zeal they shattered a glass display case.
不远处，一群男人在等着娇小的日本色情片女星水菜丽(Rei Mizuna)出场。她终于从更衣室走出来，向人群分发火辣的签名照片时，疯狂的粉丝们万分热情地挤了上来，以至于打碎了一个玻璃展柜。
Those unrequited desires have helped spawn a booming domestic toy industry. “A stuffed man doesn’t know what it’s like to be hungry,” explained a salesman at one booth filled with inflatable dolls. Just then, an older gentleman approached and tried to bargain over an $8 figure with black tresses and a vacant stare.
这些难以满足的欲求，在中国国内催生了一个蓬勃发展的产业。一个站在摆满充气娃娃的展位后的推销员说，“饱汉不知饿汉饥。”就在这时，一个年长的男士走了过来，为一个头发乌黑、眼神空洞，价值8美元的充气娃娃讨价还价。
Across the floor, the Chinese chain Buccone sold higher-end companionship. These $6,400 rubber dolls warm up “just like a real person,” said an employee, Nie Tai, 23, and could be customized. “Some men come with photos of their late wives.”
在大厅对面，中国连锁品牌“枕边游戏”(Buccone)则在销售更高端的慰藉。这些售价达6400美元的橡胶娃娃“能像真人一样”温暖起来，23岁的员工聂泰（音译）说。而且还能为客户定制。“一些男士会拿已故太太的照片过来。”
Huang Yulong, who works for a lingerie company called Toylace, was unfazed by the festival’s libidinous fervor. “Chinese men have a fetish for tearing off a woman’s clothes, so they’re not looking for romance,” said Ms. Huang, standing beside a mannequin wearing a fishnet body stocking that seemed to have run out of thread around the inner thigh. At least, not with their spouses, she added. “Customers say they’re buying for their wives, but we know it’s for their mistresses.”
桃色蕾丝内衣公司的员工黄玉珑（音译）对文化节上热烈的情色氛围见怪不怪。她的旁边放着一尊人体模型，展示网眼紧身连体衣，大腿内侧附近似乎还少了几针。“中国男人痴迷于扒了女人的衣服，他们可不是要找什么浪漫，”黄女士说，至少，不是为了他们的配偶。“客户都说是给老婆买的，其实我们知道都给情人的。”
In a country where it is still taboo to discuss sex publicly, creative packaging hinted at a multitude of personal tastes and private anxieties. Among the condom brands were Freud, packed in pink boxes, and Tiger Teeth, which lay beside a colorful assortment of prophylactics wrapped to resemble lollipops.
在这个公开谈论性仍是一种禁忌的国家，创意包装暗示了种种个人喜好和私下的焦虑。有一种安全套品牌是“弗洛伊德”，装在粉色的盒子里；还有一种名为“虎牙”，旁边摆着包得像是棒棒糖的五颜六色的套套。
Perhaps because the domestic sex toy industry started with a focus on exports, many items boasted of a foreign mystique, like the hand-held Great Rome 5 and King Kong.
也许是因为中国的性玩具产业起步时面向出口，许多品名都炫耀着异域风情，比如手持的“罗马帝国5”和“金刚”。
English mistranslations were particularly problematic among male sexual enhancement products, many of which suggested unintended consequences, like Black Widow. One vendor failed to impress a potential customer when he vowed that the Casanova pills worked best. “The effects last a week,” he said.
男性性功能增强产品的英语误译问题尤为突出，其中不少会让人联想到意外的后果，比如“黑寡妇”。一个卖家信誓旦旦地表示自家的“卡萨诺瓦”药丸功效最好，却没能打动一名潜在客户。“药效持续一周，”他说。
To attract potential buyers, some companies got creative, hosting pole dancing shows and other activities. Li Jianglin, 42, a shoe factory manager, won a contest in which participants raced to inflate condoms, huffing and puffing until the first one popped. “Go, go, go!” screamed the female organizer.
为了吸引潜在买家，一些商家发挥创意，举办钢管秀等活动。42岁的鞋厂经理李江林（音译）赢得了吹安全套比赛的胜利。选手们使劲地吹，看谁能率先吹爆。“加油！加油！加油！”组织活动的女士喊道。
Mr. Li won a cash prize worth 16 cents, strawberry-flavored condoms and a pink, battery-operated device with “overwhelm by joy” emblazoned on the box. He eyed the contraption, turning it this way and that. “The condoms are useful, but I don’t know what this thing is,” he said. “Really.”
李先生赢得了1元人民币、几个草莓味保险套，以及包装上印着“飘飘欲仙”字样的粉色电池驱动装置。他盯着这个新奇玩意，在手中翻来倒去。“安全套有用，可我不知道这个是干什么用的，”他说，“真不知道。”
Not all visitors appeared to be so clueless. Ignoring the festival crowds, a 66-year-old retired real-estate consultant fondled an anatomically correct gadget, which her husband promptly purchased for $8. “When men get older, that part doesn’t function very well and I have needs,” said the woman, who for obvious reasons would identify herself only as Ms. Huang.
并不是每个参观者都显得这么没头绪。一名66岁的退休房地产顾问没有顾得上文化节上的人群，抚摸着一件仿真用具。她的丈夫迅速花50元买下。“男人老了，那东西就不怎么管用了，我又有需要，”这名女士说。她只愿透露自己姓黄，原因一目了然。
She marveled at how times had changed since they married in 1975. “Back then, under Mao, you couldn’t talk about sex,” she said. Asked how they learned, Ms. Huang smiled knowingly. “Instinct,” she said.
她对两人1975年结婚以来的世事变迁颇为感慨。“那时候，毛主席还在，不能谈性，”她说。当被问到他们如何获得性知识的时候，黄女士心照不宣地笑了。“本能，”她说。