A week before China’s mega-military parade commemorating the 70th anniversary of victory in World War II, smog levels in Beijing appear to have fallen to their lowest levels in at least three years, the Chinese news media reported on Wednesday.
中国新闻媒体周三报道，在离中国纪念二战胜利的大阅兵还剩一周之时，北京的雾霾水平似乎降到了至少三年来的最低水平。
The average level of harmful fine particulate matter, called PM2.5, was 19.5 micrograms per cubic meter in the five days before Wednesday, The Beijing Evening News reported, citing the city’s Environmental Protection Bureau. This was the lowest PM2.5 reading for a five-day period in the city’s records, the newspaper said.
《北京晚报》援引北京市环保局的消息报道称，在周三之前的连续五天时间里，被称作PM2.5的有害微小颗粒物的平均含量为每立方米19.5微克。该报称，这是北京市有监测记录以来的最低值。
That compares with an average level of 95 in Beijing in December and January, according to a monitor at the United States Embassy. The Environmental Protection Bureau first released PM2.5 levels on its website in January 2012.
相比之下，美国大使馆的一台监测设备的读数显示，去年12月和今年1月，北京的PM2.5平均值是每立方米95微克。2012年1月，北京市环保局首次在其网站上公布PM2.5的情况。
Beijing has been pulling out all the stops to ensure that the parade next week will not be clouded in the city’s usually smoggy air.
北京通常都雾霾弥漫，为了确保下周的阅兵不受影响，北京可谓不遗余力。
The military parade, the first one that the People’s Republic has staged to celebrate the end of World War II, aims to showcase the “spirit of Chinese modern society,” according to an editorial in the state-run Global Times.
这是中国首次用阅兵的方式来纪念二战结束。官方媒体《环球时报》发表的一篇社评称，阅兵意在展示“中国现代社会精神面貌”。
In this effort, work at more than 10,000 factories and 9,000 construction sites in neighboring provinces has been suspended or scaled down, Zhang Gong, a deputy mayor of Beijing, told Xinhua, the state news agency, last week.
北京市副市长张工上周对官方通讯社新华社表示，为了阅兵，周边省市1万多家工厂和9000多个工地停工或减产。
The city has also temporarily restricted the use of private vehicles. City administrators said this week that they were ready to take further measures to ensure a smog-free parade if pollution showed any sign of worsening.
北京市还暂时限制了私家车的使用。市级行政机构本周表示，准备一旦出现污染加剧的迹象，便采取进一步的措施，以确保阅兵不受雾霾影响。
The measures are reminiscent of earlier industry shutdowns for international events. When the Beijing authorities closed factories before a summit meeting of Asia-Pacific leaders in November 2014, residents described the color of unusually clear skies as “Apec blue.”
这些措施让人想起了为举行国际活动而勒令工厂关闭的先例。在2014年11月的亚太领导人峰会召开前，当局曾下令工厂暂时关闭。民众把当时异常干净的天空颜色称作“Apec蓝”。
This year, Beijing pledged to guarantee “Olympic blue” skies in its bid to host the 2022 Winter Olympics. Unsurprisingly, some people have described the city’s current skies as “military parade blue.”
今年，北京在申办2022年的冬奥会时，承诺确保天空达到“奥运蓝”。因此，一些人将目前的天空称作“阅兵蓝”也不足为奇。