BEIJING — Jared Kushner has said that he has stepped away from the day-to-day business of his family’s real estate company while he serves as a senior adviser to his father-in-law, President Trump.
北京——贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)曾表示，在自己为岳父特朗普总统担任高级顾问期间，他已脱离了家族房地产公司的日常业务。
But Mr. Kushner’s relatives are working feverishly to solicit overseas money for projects in the United States, and they are highlighting their ties to Mr. Kushner as they court investors.
但是，库什纳的亲戚们正在为美国的项目筹集海外资金而努力工作，为试图赢得投资者，他们正在强调自己与库什纳的关系。
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Kushner’s sister Nicole Meyer made a pitch to attract $150 million in financing for a Jersey City housing development, known as One Journal Square, to more than 100 Chinese investors gathered at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Beijing.
上周六下午，为吸引1.5亿美元的资金，库什纳的妹妹尼科尔·迈耶(Nicole Meyer)进行了一场推销，向聚集在北京丽思卡尔顿酒店的100多名中国投资者介绍了一个名为“One Journal Square”的泽西市住房开发项目。
The money would be provided through a much-criticized government program known as EB-5 that awards foreign investors a path to citizenship in exchange for investments of at least $500,000 in American development projects.
人们可以通过一个名为EB-5的政府项目来进行投资，这个备受批评的政府项目奖励投资至少50万美元的外国投资者，为他们提供途径、获得公民资格。
Speaking in a ballroom, Ms. Meyer said the project “means a lot to me and my entire family.” She mentioned her brother’s service as chief executive of Kushner Companies, the family business from which he resigned in January, saying he had left to serve in the Trump administration.
在酒店的宴会厅里讲话时，迈耶说该住房开发项目“对我和我的整个家庭来说意义重大”。她提到哥哥是家族企业库什纳集团(Kushner Companies)的首席执行官。库什纳已于今年1月辞去该职，称辞职是为了为特朗普政府服务。
The project was advertised to Chinese investors as the latest offering from the “star Kushner real estate family.” The project, which includes two towers, 1,476 luxury apartments and even a medical center for pets, was promoted as “Kushner 1.” Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2018.
开发项目针对中国投资者的广告说，它是“明星地产家族Kushner集团”推出的全新项目。被宣传为“Kushner 1新泽西中央大厦”的项目包括两座塔楼、1476套豪华公寓，甚至还有一个宠物医疗中心。项目计划于2018年初开工。
Risa Heller, a spokeswoman for Kushner Companies, declined to comment.
库什纳集团发言人里莎·海勒(Risa Heller)拒绝发表评论。
Mr. Kushner, who is married to Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka, has become a central voice on China, serving as a conduit between Beijing and Washington.
库什纳是特朗普的女儿伊万卡(Ivanka)的丈夫，他已经成为与中国打交道的一个核心声音，是北京与华盛顿之间交流的渠道。
As a businessman, he courted Chinese firms, most notably Anbang Insurance Group. In March, Kushner Companies said it had ended talks with Anbang for an investment in its headquarters at 666 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. The potential deal raised eyebrows because of its favorable terms for the Kushners, who are seeking help with the troubled property.
作为一名商人，他曾试图获得中国企业的投资，其中最有名的是安邦保险集团。今年3月，库什纳集团表示，已经结束了与安邦进行的对公司位于曼哈顿第五大道666号总部进行投资的谈判。这项可能的交易曾引起人们的质疑，因为交易的条件对正在为该地产寻求帮助的库什纳家族相当有利。
Even as Mr. Kushner seeks to keep a distance from the family business in his new role, his persistent ties to the company have come under scrutiny.
就在库什纳在自己的新位置上寻求与家族公司保持距离的同时，他与公司牵扯不断的关系也受到更多的关注。
He remains the beneficiary of a series of trusts that own his stakes in Kushner Companies properties and other investments, worth as much as $600 million, and probably more. Since his move into politics, he has divested his stakes in dozens of other entities used to hold the investments, although he has held on to the vast majority.
他仍是一系列信托公司的受益人，这些公司代管他拥有的库什纳集团的财产和其他投资，资产估值高达6亿美元，可能更高。自从他进入政坛后，他已经剥离了自己在几十家用来进行投资的其他公司的股份，虽然他仍保持着相当多公司的股权。
Mr. Kushner’s government ethics disclosure form shows he was a manager or president at six entities associated with the Jersey City project until January. He divested his stake in one of them, K One Journal Square LLC, in January. It is unclear what happened with the other entities.
按政府道德规则要求披露的表格显示，今年1月前，库什纳曾担任与泽西市项目有关的六家公司的经理或总裁。今年1月，他卖掉了他在其中一家公司K One Journal Square LLC的股份。目前还不清楚其余几家公司的情况。
“Mr. Kushner divested his interests in the One Journal Square project by selling them to a family trust that he is not a beneficiary of, a mechanism suggested by the Office of Government Ethics,” said Blake Roberts, an attorney at WilmerHale advising Mr. Kushner on ethics issues. “As previously stated, he will recuse from particular matters concerning the EB-5 visa program.”
“库什纳先生将自己在One Journal Square项目中的利益出售给了一个家庭信托，他不是该信托的受益人，这是政府道德规则办公室建议的机制，”布莱克·罗伯茨(Blake Roberts)说，他是威凯平和而德(WilmerHale)律师事务所的律师，在道德问题上为库什纳提供建议。“像以前说过的那样，他将回避涉及EB-5签证项目的具体事宜。”
His relatives’ embrace of the EB-5 program may also pose complications for Mr. Kushner. The program has been labeled “U.S. citizenship for sale,” and it has come under scrutiny after a series of fraud and abuse scandals. Watchdogs have noted the program’s lax safeguards against illicit sources of money.
库什纳的亲戚对EB-5项目的热衷也可能让事情变得更复杂。有人称该签证项目“出售美国公民权”，在一连串的欺诈和滥用丑闻之后，项目已受到严格审查。监察者指出，该项目没有足够措施来保证投资者的钱不是通过非法手段获得的。
Government ethics experts have criticized Mr. Kushner for retaining an interest in the business, given his broad White House portfolio, which could affect his financial position. The company has declined to make public a complete list of its partners and lenders.
考虑到库什纳在白宫负责的事务范围广泛，政府道德问题专家已经批评他继续保留商业利益的做法，因为他的位置可能会影响他的财务状况。库什纳集团拒绝公开其合作伙伴和贷方的完整名单。
Noah Bookbinder, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a liberal nonprofit group, said the sales pitch by Kushner Companies in China was “highly problematic” and could be interpreted as selling access to Mr. Kushner. He called on Mr. Kushner to recuse himself from any decisions related to the EB-5 program.
诺亚·布克班德尔(Noah Bookbinder)是“公民支持向华盛顿问责和追究伦理”(Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington)这个自由派非营利组织的执行会长，他表示，库什纳集团在中国进行推销的做法“非常有问题”，有可能被误解为销售接触库什纳的机会。他呼吁库什纳回避参与任何与EB-5项目有关的决定。
Lawmakers are considering major changes to the program, through which investors, mostly from mainland China, receive about 10,000 visas each year. Some critics have urged the government to abolish it entirely. A slide displayed at the event on Saturday identified Mr. Trump as a “key decision maker” on the fate of the EB-5 program.
立法者正在考虑对EB-5项目进行重大修改，投资者每年可通过这个项目获得约1万份签证，大多数投资者来自中国大陆。一些批评者呼吁政府彻底取消这个项目。周六活动中展示的一个幻灯片称，特朗普是EB-5项目命运的“关键决策人”。
The program provides a cheap source of financing to developers, since investors are generally not looking for high returns, only a green card. Mr. Kushner raised about $50 million from Chinese investors for a different project in Jersey City, a Trump-branded luxury apartment tower that opened in November.
该签证项目为开发商提供了一个便宜的融资渠道，因为投资者一般不会寻求高回报，投资只是为了绿卡。库什纳曾从中国投资者那里为泽西市的另一个项目筹集到约5000万美元的资金，该项目是去年11月开业的以特朗普品牌冠名的豪华公寓楼。
Kushner Companies has declined to identify the investors it found through the program.
库什纳集团拒绝透露公司通过这个签证项目吸引到的投资者的姓名。
On Saturday, Ms. Meyer talked about how family values had shaped Kushner Companies. She spoke of her grandparents, who survived the Holocaust, and about her father, Charles Kushner, who founded the company in 1985. He later spent time in prison for illegal campaign donations, tax evasion and witness tampering.
周六，迈耶谈到了家庭价值观是如何塑造了库什纳集团。她提到自己的祖父母，他们是大屠杀的幸存者，还提到父亲查尔斯·库什纳(Charles Kushner)，他于1985年创建了公司，后来因为非法的竞选捐款、逃税和干扰证人而被判监禁。
“As children we would spend our Sundays visiting properties with my father and staying up late through the night, by his side, when closing an acquisition,” Ms. Meyer said. “Our father taught us about respect for our partners, hard work, dedication and most importantly, perseverance.”
“我们还是孩子的时候，每个周日都与父亲一起去察看房地产，并在完成收购时一直陪伴在他身边，直到深夜，”迈耶说。“父亲教导我们，要尊重我们的合伙人，努力工作、奉献，最重要的是坚持不懈。”
As Ms. Meyer spoke, journalists for The New York Times and The Washington Post were removed from the ballroom and told by organizers it was a “private event,” even though it had been publicly advertised. It was hosted by Qiaowai, a Chinese immigration agency that helps Chinese families move abroad. Ms. Meyer is scheduled to appear in other Chinese cities in the coming days.
就在迈耶讲话的时候，《纽约时报》和《华盛顿邮报》的记者被带出了宴会厅，组织者告诉记者，这是一个“私人活动”，虽然活动发布了公开的广告。活动由帮助中国家庭移居外国的中国移民机构“侨外”主办。迈耶按计划还将在未来几天在中国其他城市露面。
Ms. Meyer was asked after the event whether she was concerned about possible conflicts of interest facing her brother, but she did not respond. A man accompanying her, growing angry, shouted, “Please leave us alone!”
活动结束后，迈耶被问及她是否担心哥哥面临的可能的利益冲突，但她没有回答。一名陪伴她的男子变得很生气，他大喊道，“请不要打搅我们！”