WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, said Monday that he had been unaware that a June 2016 meeting he attended at Trump Tower was set up in the hope that a Russian lawyer would provide the Trump campaign with damaging information about Hillary Clinton.
华盛顿——特朗普总统的女婿贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)在周一表示，自己并不知道2016年6月在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)参加的一次会议的目的是希望一名俄罗斯律师向特朗普的竞选团队提供有关希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的不利信息。
In prepared remarks to congressional investigators released by Kushner’s representatives, Kushner said he arrived at the meeting late and had been so uninterested in the discussion that he emailed his assistant to ask for her help escaping.
在库什纳的代表公布的，对国会调查员事先准备的发言中，库什纳说他到达会议现场的时间晚了，他对会议的讨论完全不感兴趣，所以发邮件给助手，让她帮助自己离开会场。
Kushner, who is to give his statement to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Monday, said he went to the meeting at the request of the president’s eldest son, Donald J. Trump Jr. Kushner said he did not read an email forwarded by the younger Trump saying that the Russian government was providing dirt about Clinton as part of its effort to help the Trump campaign.
库什纳将于周一向参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)做陈述。库什纳说，他是在特朗普的长子小唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump Jr)的要求下参加该会议的。库什纳称自己没有看到小唐纳德·J·特朗普转发的一封电子邮件。该邮件称，俄罗斯政府将提供有关克林顿的黑料，这是其帮助特朗普竞选阵营行动的一部分。
In his prepared remarks, Kushner gave his first public explanation of his contacts with Russian government officials and other Kremlin-connected people over the past year. He acknowledged that after the November election, he sought a direct line of communication to the Russian president, Vladimir Putin. He characterized that action as a routine part of his job in establishing foreign contacts for Trump’s transition team.
在准备好的发言中，库什纳首次公开解释了过去一年里，自己与俄罗斯政府官员和其他与克里姆林宫有关人士的联系。他承认在11月的选举结束后，他曾寻求与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)建立直接通信联系。他将这一行动描述成自己为特朗普的过渡团队建立对外联系工作的常规内容。
In the remarks, Kushner flatly denied any collusion: “I had no improper contacts. I did not collude, nor know of anyone else in the campaign who colluded, with any foreign government.”
在发言中，库什纳断然否认存在任何共谋：“我没进行过不当联系。我没有共谋，也不知道竞选团队中其他任何人与任何外国政府共谋。”
The contacts with Russians by Kushner and by other senior members of the Trump campaign have taken on special significance. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Putin authorized a campaign of hacking and propaganda to try to tip the 2016 presidential election in Trump’s favor. The Justice Department and Congress are investigating whether anyone around Trump helped that effort, and whether the president has tried to impede the investigation.
库什纳和特朗普竞选团队的其他高级成员与俄罗斯的联系具有特殊的意义。美国情报机构断定，普京授权进行了一场黑客入侵和宣传运动，试图让2016年大选偏向有利于特朗普的方向。美国司法部和国会正在调查特朗普身边是否有人为这一行动提供了帮助，以及特朗普总统本人是否试图妨碍调查。
Kushner’s closed-door appearance before Senate Intelligence Committee investigators on Monday is the start of an important period in the inquiry, one that will keep the focus on Russia despite Trump’s repeated efforts to move past the controversy. Kushner is also scheduled to speak to the House Intelligence Committee on Tuesday.
周一，库什纳将以非公开的形式出现在参议院情报委员会调查人员的面前。这是调查中的一个重要阶段的开始。尽管特朗普多次试图越过这一争议，但调查将继续把重点放在俄罗斯上。库什纳还计划于周二接受众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)的质询。