ALQOSH, Iraq — Seizing on the momentum of focused American airstrikes in recent days, Kurdish forces moved to retake the strategic Mosul Dam on Sunday night, in their most significant challenge yet to the Sunni militants’ advance in northern Iraq.
伊拉克艾勒高什——借助美国最近几天集中开展空袭的势头，库尔德武装于周日晚间采取行动，以努力夺回具有战略意义的摩苏尔大坝。逊尼派武装分子在伊拉克北部一路推进，而本次行动是库尔德人迄今为止对其最大的挑战。
The American assaults hit 10 armed vehicles, seven Humvees, two armored personnel carriers and one checkpoint belonging to fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the United States Central Command said Sunday.
美军中央司令部(United States Central Command)周日表示，美国的空袭行动击中了10辆装甲车、七辆悍马、两辆装甲运兵车，以及一个由“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）武装人员控制的检查点。
In the past two days, United States forces have conducted 30 airstrikes across Iraq, officials said, with many of them focused around the dam, which militants captured after routing the Kurdish forces 10 days ago. A statement from the National Security Council in Washington on Sunday said that the bombings were ordered by President Obama to help the Iraqi forces “retake and establish control over the Mosul Dam.”
官员们表示，美军过去两天在伊拉克各地展开了30次空袭，其中很多行动集中在摩苏尔大坝附近。武装分子10天前击溃库尔德部队，控制了大坝。周日，华盛顿的国家安全委员会(National Security Council)发表声明称，奥巴马总统下令进行轰炸，以协助伊拉克部队“夺回并掌控摩苏尔坝”。
Mr. Obama, the statement added, also officially informed Congress that he had authorized the American airstrikes in Iraq, consistent with the War Powers Resolution.
声明还称，奥巴马正式通知国会，他已批准美军在伊拉克开展空袭。这一做法遵照了《战争权力决议案》(War Powers Resolution)的规定。
As of late Sunday, Kurdish government officials said fighting around the dam complex, Iraq’s largest, was continuing, despite early reports that the site had been retaken.
截至周日夜里，库尔德政府官员表示，大坝建筑周边的斗争仍在继续，尽管之前有报道称，这座伊拉克规模最大的水坝已被夺回。
“We do not control the entire dam yet,” said Fuad Hussein, a spokesman for Massoud Barzani, the Iraqi Kurdish president, in a televised statement.
伊拉克库尔德地区主席马苏德·巴尔扎尼(Masoud Barzani)的发言人福阿德·侯赛因(Fuad Hussein)表示，“我们还没有控制整座大坝。”
The air campaign has seemed to check the militants’ move against the semiautonomous Kurdish region, an offensive that sent tens of thousands of refugees fleeing and at one point threatened the Kurdish capital, Erbil.
美军的空袭似乎阻止了武装分子向半自治的库尔德地区推进。武装分子的进攻导致数以万计的难民逃亡，还一度威胁到库尔德斯坦首府埃尔比勒。
By hammering the militants with warplanes and drones, the Americans have severely curtailed the freedom of movement enjoyed by the ISIS fighters.
通过动用战机和无人机强力打击武装分子，美国已经极大地遏制了ISIS武装享有的行动自由。
It remains to be seen how the Kurdish forces, known as the pesh merga, may fare if the air support is halted, despite Mr. Obama’s suggestion that it could last for months. Having lost significant ground during the ISIS fighters’ sudden advance this month, Kurdish forces have shown that they may not be able to go it alone. The forces pushing into the Mosul Dam area are believed to include the Iraqi Special Forces, making the operation a hybrid of American, Kurdish and Iraqi commands.
尽管奥巴马表示，空中支援或许会持续数月，但目前尚不清楚，一旦没有了美国的支援，库尔德部队“敢死军”(pesh merga)的表现又将如何。在ISIS武装分子本月突然推进期间，库尔德部队失去了大片阵地。这说明他们可能无法单独应战。据称，打入摩苏尔大坝的军队包括伊拉克特种部队(Iraqi Special Forces)，因此这是一场美国、库尔德及伊拉克军事力量共同开展的行动。
Kurdish officials acknowledge that the airstrikes have been vital to recent success in halting the militants’ onslaught. For their part, pesh merga officials have complained bitterly about inferior arms compared with those used by the militants, who have claimed powerful American munitions abandoned on the battlefield by the Iraqi military.
库尔德官员承认，空袭是最近成功阻止武装分子进攻的关键。敢死军的官员本身就曾大肆抱怨，自己的武器装备不如武装分子的好。武装分子得到了伊拉克政府军遗弃在战场上的强大的美制武器。
“The aircrafts have handicapped the ISIS forces — they cannot move easily,” said Hariam Agha, a local commander of the Kurdish forces in Dohuk. “They killed a lot of their fighters.”
“这些飞机严重打击了ISIS武装——使他们无法轻易移动，”库尔德军队在杜胡克省的地方指挥官海拉姆·阿伽(Hariam Agha)说。“它们打死了ISIS的许多武装人员。”
Since Saturday, 13 militants have been killed in airstrikes and 46 have been wounded, medical officials in the area said.
该地区的医疗官员表示，自周六以来，已有13名武装分子在空袭中丧生，另有46人受伤。
According to Kurdish officials, ISIS fighters now appear to be falling back on several fronts, as pesh merga forces approach both the dam and the city of Mosul, which is the capital of Nineveh Province. In their wake, they have left mines to slow the progress of Kurdish and Iraqi government forces following in their tracks. The Kurdish advance appeared to have been halted on Sunday afternoon, as local fighters and officials said they were awaiting sapper teams to clear the way to the dam.
库尔德官员称，随着敢死军逼近摩苏尔坝和尼尼微省首府摩苏尔市，ISIS武装分子似乎正在几个战线上撤退。他们在后退的途中埋下了地雷，以拖延库尔德军队和伊拉克政府军追踪他们的进度。周日下午，库尔德军队似乎暂时停下了前进的脚步。当地官兵称，他们正在等待扫雷兵来疏通前往大坝的通道。
Still, in Alqosh, at the military base where the operations to retake the dam originated, there was a decidedly optimistic attitude among the government fighters. Several offered to speak to reporters visiting the area, but only if they were not identified because they were not authorized to comment publicly. The soldiers boasted that the ISIS militants were retreating and spoke of an imminent victory at the dam as military vehicles passed in and out of the checkpoint area.
尽管如此，在艾勒高什的军事基地——也就是夺回摩苏尔坝行动开始的地方——政府军中明显带着乐观情绪。有几名士兵主动与来到这里的记者交谈，但由于没有权利公开发表言论，他们要求不具名。士兵们夸耀，ISIS武装分子正在撤退，并提到说，夺回大坝的胜利就在眼前。在此期间，军方的车辆在检查点的区域进进出出。
Officials also spoke confidently about the re-energized pesh merga forces.
官员们对重整旗鼓的敢死军也充满信心。
“There is some fighting in different places in the area, but the pesh merga has moved easily forward,” said Duraid Hikmat Tobia, a minority affairs adviser to the governor of Nineveh Province. “The problem is the mines — they cannot move quickly because they are afraid to hit them.”
“在这个地区的不同地方都发生了冲突，但敢死军所向披靡，”尼尼微省省长的少数派事务顾问杜拉伊德·希克马特·托比亚(Duraid Hikmat Tobia)说。“问题在于地雷——因为害怕踩到地雷，他们没法快速行进。”