BEIRUT — Kurdish militias regained full control of the northern Syrian town of Kobani on Monday, driving Islamic State militants out with the help of U.S.-led airstrikes, Kurdish activists on the scene said.
贝鲁特——当地的库尔德活动人士称，周一，库尔德民兵组织彻底夺回了叙利亚北部城镇科巴尼的控制权，在美国主导的空袭的帮助下赶走了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子。
The bitter three-month battle for the border town took on outsize symbolic significance as it unfolded within sight of the Turkish border. It became the most visible arena in the U.S.-led coalition's fight against the Islamic State, and the militant group's retreat dented the aura of invincibility it has sought to cultivate.
为争夺这座边境城镇而展开的三个月的艰苦战役具有很大的象征意义，因为战斗就发生在土耳其边境附近。它已经成为以美国为首的联盟打击伊斯兰国的战斗中最引人瞩目的战场。伊斯兰国的撤退则影响了这个军事组织一心想要塑造的不可战胜的光辉形象。
But even as the Kurds celebrated, some activists said clearing the town was no great victory, given that it took nearly 700 airstrikes to do it — about two-thirds of all the coalition's strikes in Syria so far — and that Kobani was a relatively minor border city with a prewar population of 45,000.
不过，在库尔德人庆祝胜利的同时，一些活动人士说，夺回该城并不是什么了不起的胜利，因为为此已经实施了近700次空袭，差不多相当于联盟迄今为止对叙利亚袭击数量的三分之二，此外，科巴尼是一个相对次要的边境城市，战争前只有4.5万人口。
Improved coordination between Kurdish ground forces and the U.S.-led air campaign made it possible to eliminate the Islamic State's foothold in the city, the activists said. But the battle illustrated something else as well, they said: the extremists' ability and willingness to hold on for months in the face of punishing aerial attacks, even in territory with limited military importance.
这些活动人士说，库尔德地面部队和美国主导的空袭行动加强了协调，使铲除伊斯兰国在该城市的立足点成为可能。但这场战争还证明了一件事，他们说：那就是极端分子面对惩罚性的空袭时坚持数月的能力和意愿，虽然这块地区的军事意义十分有限。
“This can't be counted as an achievement,” Mustafa Ebdi, a Kurdish activist in the nearby Turkish town of Suruc, said in a telephone interview Monday, even as the sounds of celebratory Kurdish songs and chants could be heard in the background. He noted that the Islamic State “is the one who decided to retreat.”
“这不能算作一项成就，”库尔德活动人士穆斯塔法·埃博迪(Mustafa Ebdi)周一在电话采访中说，他身在附近的土耳其城镇苏鲁奇，电话背景中可以听到库尔德人庆祝胜利的歌声和欢呼声。他指出，伊斯兰国“主动做出了撤退的决定”。
Islamic State fighters swept across the agricultural lands around Kobani over the summer, but their advance attracted little outside attention until they threatened Kobani itself, around the time the U.S.-led coalition began hitting targets in Syria.
去年夏天，伊斯兰国的武装分子横扫科巴尼周围的农村地区，但这些进展几乎没有引起外界的关注，直到威胁到了科巴尼本身，当时差不多就是以美国为首的联盟开始打击叙利亚境内目标的时候。
The group, also known as ISIS, steadily redeployed fighters to Kobani from other parts of Syria, apparently hoping to show it could win a pitched battle despite Western air power.
这个也被称为ISIS的组织不断从叙利亚其他地区向科巴尼部署武装人员，似乎是希望表明这一点：尽管西方空中实力强大，它仍然可以在这场激战中取胜。