The United States and Iran on Monday signaled increased willingness to work together to arrest the expanding Sunni insurgency in Iraq, with Secretary of State John Kerry openly suggesting such a collaboration would be constructive and another American official saying the subject could come up at talks this week on the Iranian nuclear dispute.
周一，在阻止伊拉克日渐扩大的逊尼派叛乱上，美国和伊朗表达了更为强烈的合作意愿。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)公开表示，此类合作将具有建设性的意义。另一名美国官员则透露，在本周举行的伊朗核争端谈判中，可能会讨论这个议题。
Cooperation between the United States and Iran to contain the Iraqi crisis would represent the first time the two countries — estranged adversaries for more than three decades — have jointly undertaken a common security purpose since they shared military intelligence to counter the Taliban in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks 13 years ago.
美国和伊朗之间若能在遏制伊拉克危机上合作，将代表着两国多年来首次为实现共同的安全目标而联手。过去30余年间，两国一直是相互疏远的敌人，但在13年前的9·11袭击事件后，双方曾共享对抗阿富汗塔利班的军事情报。
Mr. Kerry, in an interview with Yahoo News, called the advance by insurgents under the banner of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria over the past week an “existential threat” to Iraq and suggested American airstrikes were one possible answer. Asked if the United States would cooperate with Iran to thwart ISIS, Mr. Kerry said, “I wouldn’t rule out anything that would be constructive.”
克里在接受雅虎新闻(Yahoo News)的采访时称，打着伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）旗号的叛乱分子在过去一周里步步逼近，对伊拉克构成了“事关存亡的威胁”。他表示，美国的空中打击是一种可能的解决之道。当被问到美国是否会和伊朗合作挫败ISIS时，克里说，“我不排除任何具有建设性的提议。”
A senior Obama administration official said that Deputy Secretary of State William J. Burns may talk to the Iranians about Iraq at the nuclear talks, which are to reconvene on Wednesday in Vienna. “There may be discussion of that on the margins,” the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the evolving situation.
奥巴马政府的一名高级官员表示， 副国务卿威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)可能会在周三于维也纳恢复举行的核谈判中和伊朗讨论伊拉克问题。由于谈论的是不断演变的局势，这名官员要求不具名。“双方可能会在谈判之余讨论这个问题。”
A State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, later sought to more precisely define the nature of any cooperation, asserting it would be entirely political. “We believe the focus should be on encouraging Iraq’s leaders to govern in a non-sectarian way, and our discussion wouldn’t be about cooperating or coordinating on military goals,” she told reporters at a daily briefing. In Iran, a strong backer of the Shiite government in Iraq, top officials also signaled readiness to collaborate with the United States on containing a crisis in a neighbor that the Iranian government has partly blamed on the legacy of the American military’s eight-year war that ousted Saddam Hussein. President Hassan Rouhani of Iran has said he would welcome efforts by “all countries in combating terrorism.”
对于双方可能的任何合作，美国国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)随后力图更加确切地界定其本质，断言它将会完全归于政治范畴。在每日例行的新闻发布会上，她对记者说，“我们认为，重点应该是鼓励伊拉克领导人以非宗派的方式治理国家，而我们的讨论不会涉及军事目标上的合作或协作。”在伊朗，高官们也发出信号，准备好与美国合作遏制邻国的危机。伊朗是伊拉克什叶派政府的强大后援。伊朗政府认为，此次危机应部分归咎于美军把萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)赶下台的八年战争所遗留的影响。伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)已表示，欢迎“各国为打击恐怖主义”做出努力。
On Sunday, a key aide to Mr. Rouhani, Hamid Aboutalebi, wrote in a series of messages on his Persian Twitter account that only Iran and the United States are in a position to solve the Iraq crisis.
周日，鲁哈尼的得力干将哈米德·阿布塔莱比(Hamid Aboutalebi)在其Twitter账户上用波斯语发了一系列帖子，其中写道，只有伊朗和美国具备解决伊拉克危机的能力。
The conciliatory tone was noteworthy given that Mr. Aboutalebi, President Rouhani’s choice to be Iran’s new United Nations ambassador, was rejected by the United States earlier this year because of his indirect role as a translator for the militants who seized the American Embassy in Tehran in 1979, setting off the break in Iranian-American ties that has shaped the relationship ever since.
这种愿意和解的口吻值得关注，因为今年早些时候，作为鲁哈尼指派的新任伊朗驻联合国大使人选，阿布塔莱比被美国拒签，理由是他1979年曾为占领美国驻德黑兰大使馆的激进分子担任翻译，间接参与了那起事件。此事导致两国断交，至今仍影响着双方的关系。
In the United States, the signs of American-Iranian cooperation on the Iraq crisis set off new rounds of recrimination over whether such a move was in Washington’s interest or a strategic mistake.
在美国，美国可能会与伊朗在伊拉克危机上展开合作的迹象引发了新一轮的相互指责。争论的议题是，这种举动到底是符合美国的利益，还是一个战略失误？
Trita Parsi, the president of the National Iranian American Council, a group that has promoted diplomacy with Iran and a peaceful resolution to the nuclear dispute, welcomed such cooperation.
伊朗裔美国人全国理事会(National Iranian American Council)会长特里塔·帕尔西(Trita Parsi)对此类合作表示欢迎。该团体一直推动与伊朗开展外交，和平解决核争端。
“The fact that Iran has signaled openness to U.S. strikes in Iraq shows that, contrary to conventional wisdom in Washington, Iran is either not seeking hegemony in the region and/or is incapable of materializing such a desire,” Mr. Parsi said in an email. “The scaremongering about Iran’s intents and capabilities are put in check by these recent events.”
“伊朗对美国在伊拉克开展打击行动持开放态度的事实表明，与华盛顿的传统看法相反，伊朗要么是并不希望在该地区谋取霸权，要么就是无力实现这种愿望，或者两方面皆有，”帕尔西通过电子邮件接受采访称。“最近这些事件会澄清有关伊朗的意图和能力的恶意传言。”
Vocal American critics of Iran’s government, on the other hand, castigated the Obama administration for even considering a collaboration with Iran on the Iraq crisis, calling it a blunder that Iran would seek to exploit for its own ends in the nuclear talks. Iran is negotiating with world powers, including the United States, which want guarantees that the Iranian nuclear program is peaceful. A temporary accord in that dispute is set to expire on July 20.
另一方面，大力批判伊朗政府的美国人谴责奥巴马政府居然考虑与伊朗就伊拉克危机展开合作。他们称，这是一个愚蠢的错误，会被伊朗利用在核谈判中达到自己的目的。伊朗正在与美国等世界大国进行谈判，而美国希望从中得到伊朗核计划是用于和平用途的保证。有关这一争端的临时协议将于7月20日到期。
“Iran helped turn both Syria and Iraq into a jihadist inferno, which threatens American security, and now is positioning itself as the firewall against the very violence it created,” said Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington-based group that has advocated strong sanctions against Iran over the nuclear issue. “The White House keeps granting Iran strategic openings that Tehran is converting into greater levels of negotiating leverage and nuclear intransigence.”
“在伊朗的助推下，叙利亚和伊拉克变成了威胁美国安全的圣战主义地狱，现在伊朗又摆出一副防火墙的姿态，而抵御的正是自己制造的暴力活动，”总部位于华盛顿的保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)总干事马克·杜博维茨(Mark Dubowitz)说。该团体倡导在核问题上对伊朗实施严厉制裁。“白宫一直在向德黑兰提供战略机会，而伊朗则将其转化成了更高水平的谈判筹码，以及在核问题上更强硬的立场。”