THERE’S an old Italian saying, “A tavola non si invecchia,” which means: At the table, you don’t grow old. All of us, of whatever age, need to socialize in public places to feel connected and alive.
意大利人有句老话，“A tavola non si invecchia”，意思是：桌前坐，不会老。我们所有人，无论年纪大小，都需要在公共空间参与社交活动，以获得一种有来往和活着的感觉。
That sense of shared conviviality was notably absent recently when police officers removed loiterers, many of them elderly Korean-Americans, from a McDonald’s restaurant in Queens. The slew of comments that followed a report of the dispute were unsympathetic to those who whiled away their hours there.
当警察开始驱赶皇后区一家麦当劳餐厅内闲坐着的人时，那种联谊分享的感觉显然已经荡然无存，那些人中相当一部分是韩裔美国老年人。这一纠纷的报道引来的评论，对那些在餐厅里消磨时光的人，是缺乏同情心的。
One New York Times reader commented, “It is only in the inner city that McDonald’s and Starbucks are the gathering places for the unwashed, elderly, incompetent and infirm. I suppose this is the price for being a city dweller. These people ruin everything!” Others offered proposals to “solve” the problem by making the seating uncomfortable or removing it altogether, suing the elderly customers or playing blaring rap music to drive them away.
一名《纽约时报》读者评论道，“只有老城区的麦当劳和星巴克才会成为这些外表不洁的、老迈无能、孱弱的人聚集的地方。我猜这大概是住在城里的代价吧。什么都被这帮人毁了！”还有的提出了问题的“解决”方案，比如把座椅弄的不舒服些，或者干脆都去掉，把那些老年顾客告上法庭，或者大声播放说唱音乐把他们赶跑。
Older patrons may test the limits of public dawdling, but this phenomenon — call it loitering or community building — is essential for the survival of many people 65 and older. According to the last census, seniors constitute 12 percent of New York City’s population. Many of them are single, sometimes far from family, and have lived in their localities for decades, their entire lives even. For the past four years, I have studied how neighborhood public places help older Manhattan residents avoid isolation and develop social ties that offer support, ranging from a sympathetic ear to a small emergency loan.
这些年长的顾客也许挑战了公共空间滞留的底限，但这种现象——不管你是称之为闲坐还是社区建设——对许多65岁以上老人的生存是必不可少的。从上一次人口普查的数据看，纽约市人口中老年人占12%。他们当中很多是单身，有的距离家人很遥远，在那一带生活了几十年，有的甚至一辈子住在那里。过去四年里，我研究了街区公共场所对老年曼哈顿居民的生活起到了怎样的帮助：让他们免受孤苦，发展出能给他们带来支持的社交关系。这种支持，有时候是富于同情心的倾听，有时候是紧急时刻的一笔小额借贷。
Like the teenagers who linger over sticky tabletops at Burger King and McDonald’s, these older people have reached a time when their lives do not revolve around work and family. In the absence of those, these public places can anchor routines and provide a sense of structure and belonging.
和那些流连在黏糊糊的汉堡王和麦当劳餐桌前的青少年一样，老年人的生活也已经到了不再围绕着工作和家庭运转的时候。没有了那些，公共场所就成了日常生活的中心，提供了一种组织和归属感。
A Manhattan bakery I observed had served as a de facto senior center for decades. The owner allowed customers to linger; many stopped in more than once a day. The bakery hummed with conversation: It felt more like a social club than a business, with a cup of coffee being the modest price of admission.
我观察了曼哈顿一家烘焙店，几十年来那里实际上就是一座老年人中心。店主允许顾客滞留；很多人一天要在那里驻足多次。店内人声嘈杂，感觉不像一家店，倒更像一个社交俱乐部，买下一杯咖啡相当于缴纳了一点点入场费。
Yet the elderly are often now hindered by the loss of neighborhood places that have closed because of gentrification and rising retail rents. When that West Side bakery was shuttered, its patrons were forced to regroup in other neighborhood locales, including a nearby McDonald’s.
而如今老年人时常会受制于街坊场所的流失，一些地方因为城市改造和铺租上涨而关闭。那家西区的烘焙店关门后，主顾们被迫在其他街坊场所重新集聚，包括附近的麦当劳。
For retirees on fixed incomes who may have difficulty walking more than a few blocks, McDonald’s restaurants remain among the most democratic, freely accessible spaces. Much of the appeal lies in the fact that, as an elderly patron said to me, “you can sit all day and nobody bothers you.” At the branch I observed, the tolerance for older New Yorkers also extended to the homeless, people who appeared mentally unstable and teenagers who congregated after school — even when they occasionally flung ice cubes at one another.
这些退休老人拿着固定的收入，又因为行走不便，只能在几个街区内活动，在他们看来，麦当劳餐厅依然是最平等、出入最自如的空间之一。一位年长的顾客对我说，麦当劳的吸引力在于，“你在那里坐上一天也没人来烦你。”我观察的那家麦当劳不但容忍年迈的纽约人，连无家可归者、看上去精神不太稳定的人和放学后聚会的青少年也一视同仁——尽管后者有时候会相互扔冰块。
An afternoon at McDonald’s opens up a world of people-watching opportunities. One elderly regular I observed sat an entire day and greeted a changing cast of passers-by, acquaintances and friends — a welcome alternative to sitting alone in her apartment with worsening dementia.
在麦当劳待一个下午，你将有机会领略到众生百态。我观察到一位年长的常客坐了一整天，和路过的各色人物打招呼，他们都是熟人和朋友，比起独自一人在公寓里坐等失智症恶化，这是个比较受欢迎的选择。
Ray Oldenburg, a professor emeritus of sociology at the University of West Florida, calls these gathering spots “third places,” in contrast to the institutions of work and family that organize “first” and “second” places. He sees bookstores, cafes and fast food joints as necessary yet endangered meeting points that foster community, often among diverse people. The Yale sociologist Elijah Anderson likens public settings such as Reading Terminal Market in Philadelphia to a “cosmopolitan canopy,” where people act with civility and converse with others to whom they might never otherwise speak.
西佛罗里达大学(University of West Florida)荣休教授雷·奥登伯格(Ray Oldenburg)称这些聚会点为“第三场所”，和用于工作和家庭的“第一”和“第二”场所形成对应。在他看来，书店、咖啡馆和快餐店是培育社区所必需但却日渐减少的聚会地点，这类社区的构成往往比较多样化。耶鲁大学(Yale)社会学家伊莱亚·安德森(Elijah Anderson)将费城瑞丁车站市场(Reading Terminal Market)这样的公共环境比作“都市天棚”，人们在这里寒暄客套，和一些素昧平生的人交谈。
The care-taking performed by such places extends to all kinds of groups. A professor of sociology at Princeton, Mitchell Duneier, has found a Chicago cafeteria that supports older working-class African-American men in this way. I have interviewed people who tell me they don’t like senior centers because “they’re depressing”; in these cafes, they can form emotional attachments with a wider mix of people.
这类场所的维系作用触及到了各类人群。普林斯顿大学(Princeton)社会学教授米切尔·邓尼耶(Mitchell Duneier)发现芝加哥一家餐厅就在以这种方式支持劳动阶层的老年非裔美国人。受访者告诉我，他们不喜欢老年人中心，因为“它们都很丧气”；在这些餐厅里，他们可以和更多不一样的人建立起情感联系。
Centers offer vital services, but McDonald’s offers an alternative that doesn’t segregate people from intergenerational contact. “I hate old people,” one 89-year-old man told me.
老年人中心的服务是必不可少的，但麦当劳是另一个选择，一个不会把人按照年龄辈分区隔开的选择。“我讨厌老年人，”一位89岁的人这样告诉我。
We should praise companies that allow loitering and devise public-private partnerships that benefit both older adults and business owners: I can imagine tax breaks for franchises that serve a high proportion of older adults and discounts to encourage patronage at off-peak hours. And we could replicate the “Café Plus” model of the Chicago nonprofit group Mather LifeWays in 30 American cities. These attractive coffee shops not only offer older customers who dislike traditional senior centers a 75-cent bottomless cup of coffee, but also welcome customers of all ages.
我们应该赞扬那些允许闲坐的公司，设计出公私合作的形式，让老年人和店家都能获益：我能想到的是给老年人顾客较多的特许经营企业减税，利用价格优惠来鼓励顾客在非高峰期前来。我们可以复制芝加哥非营利组织Mather LifeWays在全美30座城市中使用的“Café Plus”模式。这些迷人的咖啡馆向不喜欢传统老年人中心的老年顾客供应75美分（约合人民币4.5元）的无限续杯咖啡，同时也欢迎其他任何年龄段的顾客。
The Queens dispute has been settled, for now, by a compromise that allows the elderly Korean-American customers to linger, provided they vacate during the lunchtime rush. Battles over public space are as old as the city itself, but we have an opportunity to reimagine overlooked resources like McDonald’s as new generations of older people find themselves needing places to hang out.
经过双方的让步，皇后区的纠纷已经暂时得到解决，只要那些韩裔美国老年顾客在午餐高峰期能腾出位置，就可以继续待在那里。公共空间的争夺自有城市以来就从未停息，但现在是时候对麦当劳这类被忽视的资源进行重新构想了，日后会有新一代的老年人需要找一个地方呆着。