The polar vortex’s return this week was a nuisance to most New Yorkers, but it provided optimal conditions for appreciating the Fall/Winter 2014 wares on offer at the men’s clothing and lifestyle trade shows MAN, Capsule and Project. Among the heritage and camping-supply items that usually abound at these events, a few new lines stood out. Below are the 10 best pieces — some basic, some inclement-weather specific, but all refreshingly new.
本周极地漩涡的再次来袭令大部分纽约人感到不快，但是它为人们欣赏“MAN，Capsule和Project”男装和生活方式交易会上的2014秋冬男装提供了最佳条件。这种交易会上通常充满了传统和野营装备，其中有几个新系列脱颖而出。下面是其中的十佳单品，有些是基础款，有些是专门应对恶劣天气的，全都非常新颖。
Petrou/Man’s first Fall/Winter collection for its new spinoff label, Audience, experiments with textured color blocking and patchwork designs created with different fabrics, like acid-washed cotton and imitation shearling. This patchwork cardigan is a standout from the set.
Petrou/Man为它的新子品牌Audience第一次推出秋冬系列，尝试用不同的面料——比如酸洗棉布和人造羊毛——做出有质感的色块和补丁。这件补丁羊毛衫是这个系列中最出色的一件。
For those still in search of the perfect T-shirt, there is the New York-based designer Daniel DuGoff’s brand-new line, DDUGOFF. His nascent line offers “unbasic basics” such as this boxy-cut T-shirt made from quality shirting fabric.
还在寻找完美T恤的人可以看看纽约设计师丹尼尔·杜戈夫(Daniel DuGoff)的新系列DDUGOFF。这个新生系列推出了一些“非基础的基础款”，比如这件用高品质衬衫平布做的宽松T恤。
The Todd Snyder + Champion collection has been around for a couple of seasons now. But this season, the New York-based designer behind the label tapped the outerwear company Crescent Down Works to create this puffer jacket with a sweatshirt shell and nylon lining to round out the looks. Behold the triple collaboration!
Todd Snyder + Champion系列已经存在几季了。但是这一季，该品牌的纽约设计师和外套制作公司Crescent Down Works合作制作了这件蓬松的上衣，它有着运动衫的外形和尼龙衬里。把它看做是三个品牌的组合吧！
On rainy and snowy days, these Dr. Martens-inspired waterproof Rainman shoes from Japan blend in better with everyday life than a pair of chunky rain boots would.
在雨雪天，这些来自日本的以马丁靴(Dr. Martens)为灵感设计的Rainman防水鞋比笨重的雨靴更容易融入日常生活。
Since 2012, the designers Aurélien Arbet and Jérémie Egry of Études have created men’s clothing that feels both Brooklyn-esque and French (which is not surprising since they’re based out of studios in Paris and the Brooklyn neighborhood of Greenpoint). This bold, cerulean cable-knit is easy to wear, and works year-round.
从2012年起，Études的设计师奥雷利安·阿贝(Aurélien Arbet)和热雷米·埃格里(Jérémie Egry)开始制作既有布鲁克林风格又有法国韵味的男装（这不奇怪，因为他们出身于巴黎和布鲁克林绿点社区的工作室）。这件厚实的天蓝色麻花毛衣便于穿着，而且一年四季都能穿。
Our Legacy consistently offers strong collections of pieces that any man would want to own. Though most people turn to the Swedish brand for its outerwear, it’s really the denim that gets better every season, as evidenced in this pair of artfully distressed black jeans with subtly frayed waistband and hems.
Our Legacy不断推出任何男人都想拥有的强悍系列。虽然大部分人喜欢这个瑞典品牌是因为它的外套，但是每一季变得更好的是它的牛仔裤，比如这条巧妙做旧的黑色牛仔裤，它的腰带和裤边巧妙地微微磨旧。
After Monday’s blizzard-slammed commute, Woolpower‘s thermal shirts were a sight for sore eyes. Made in Sweden, they utilize merino wool to trap heat and wick away perspiration. With a smooth inner side that reduces scratchiness, the all-natural shirts rival any high-tech winter gear.
经历周一暴风雪肆虐的通勤之后，Woolpower的保暖衬衫大受欢迎。这些衬衫是在瑞典制作的，用美利奴羊毛留住热量，排出湿气。这些纯天然衬衫里面很光滑，能减少瘙痒感，所以胜过任何高科技的冬季装备。
With styles named after dog breeds, Buddy recognizes that sneakers, like dogs, are a man’s best friend. This was the first New York show for the Japanese brand, which offers minimally designed shoes that function as everyday staples.
Buddy用狗的品种给每种风格命名，可能是因为它认识到，运动鞋和狗一样，是男人最好的朋友。这是这个日本品牌首次在纽约展示，它推出了用作日常必需品的简约设计的鞋子。
Neubaº is a young British brand focused on hand-woven men’s wear. The founder, Aldo Kahane, works with textile designers and weavers from around the world to create shirts that showcase a range of intricate patterns and textures, like this plaid shirt made from variegated weaves.
Neubaº是个年轻的英国品牌，专做手工缝制的男装。它的创始人奥尔多·卡亨(Aldo Kahane)和世界各地的纺织品设计师和编织工一起制作展示各种复杂的图案和质地的衬衫，比如这件杂色格子衬衫。
As with most backpack aficionados, my predilection predates its recent resurgence in the fashion industry. So in the case of this Hærfest bag that resembles the classic Jansport packs we’ve all used since early school days — but is made with the highest-quality leather and canvas — it’s hard not to get excited.
和大多数背包迷一样，我的偏爱早于它最近在服装业的复兴。这款Hærfest背包有点像我们上小学时都用过的Jansport背包，不过它是用高档皮革和帆布做成的，很难不令人兴奋。