WASHINGTON — On Dec. 15, Prince Turki al-Faisal, the former Saudi intelligence chief, drew a harsh portrait of American weakness, unreliability and poor judgment in the Middle East. His speech was likely cheered as vigorously in Jerusalem as it was in Riyadh and Abu Dhabi. Although neither side will say so publicly, these Middle Eastern rivals seem to agree more with each other than with Washington these days.
华盛顿——12月15日，前沙特情报局长图尔基·费萨尔亲王(Prince Turki al-Faisal)发表言辞激烈的讲话，指出了美国在中东地区的软弱、不可靠，以及差劲的判断力。就像在利雅得和阿布扎比一样，他的言论在耶路撒冷可能也受到了大力欢迎。虽然双方都不会公开表达这种观点，但如今这些中东对手之间的共同点，似乎比他们同美国的更多。
Israel and the Gulf states share a deep suspicion about the interim nuclear deal with Iran. Both tend to believe that the United States has lost influence in the Middle East and abandoned its willingness to use force. As a result they increasingly doubt America’s commitment to their security. While Israel and the Gulf states may be equally unhappy with American policy, they should not expect to impact the next phase of negotiations with Iran just by bemoaning President Obama. Unless Israel and its Gulf neighbors start talking — and more importantly — working together, they will continue to miss an opportunity to offer a viable alternative.
以色列和海湾国家都对与伊朗达成的临时核协议深表怀疑。这些国家倾向于认为美国已经丧失了在中东地区的影响力，并放弃了使用武力的意愿。因此，它们对美国的安全承诺越来越怀疑。以色列和海湾国家对美国的政策也许有着同等的不满，但它们不应该指望仅仅通过抱怨奥巴马总统来影响伊朗谈判的下一阶段。如果以色列和海湾国家不开始对话——更重要的是——开始携手合作，它们将会继续错过提出其他可行性举措的机会。
The Obama administration has tried to match this criticism by reaffirming its commitment to the security of its allies (this was a consistent focus during my four years working on the president’s national security staff). On Dec. 7, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel itemized American’s long-term defense commitments in the Gulf at the Manama Dialogue, a regional security forum attended by many Gulf leaders. The same day in Washington, at the Brookings Institution’s Saban Forum, Mr. Obama reasserted that security cooperation between the United States and Israel “has never been stronger.” These statements reflect a five-year record of close military collaboration. So why aren’t Israel and the Gulf states convinced?
奥巴马政府曾试图就这种批评给予回应，重申了美国保证其盟友安全的承诺（在我作为总统的国家安全幕僚的四年中，这一直是一个工作重点）。12月7日，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)参加麦纳麦对话会(Manama Dialogue)时逐条列举了美国长期以来在海湾地区的防御承诺，很多海湾国家领导人出席了这一地区安全论坛。同一天，奥巴马在华盛顿参加布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)组织的萨班论坛(Saban Forum)时，再次表示美国与以色列的安全合作“比以往任何时候都强大”。这些声明体现了美以两国五年来密切的军事合作。那以色列和海湾国家为什么没有被说服呢？
For Israel, no level of security assistance seems capable of overcoming its anxiety that the United States will ultimately accept a nuclear Iran rather than initiate a military strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities if the diplomatic process falls apart or Iran develops the capability and know-how to produce nuclear weapons in short order.
对于以色列来说，无论安全协助达到多高的层面，似乎都不足以消除他们的焦虑，他们担心如果外交程序宣告失败或伊朗在短期内掌握了制造核武器的能力和技能，美国最终会接受一个拥有核武器的伊朗，而不是对伊朗的核设施发起军事打击。
Mr. Obama has acknowledged that Israel should not be expected to contract out its security. And yet he is hoping Mr. Netanyahu will do just that by forgoing a military strike and trusting America to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon through sanctions-backed diplomacy and force, if necessary.
奥巴马曾承认，以色列不应该指望依靠其他国家解决自己的安全问题。但他现在要内塔尼亚胡放弃军事打击计划，相信美国能通过倚仗制裁政策的外交和武力来阻止伊朗拥有核武器，等于就是让以色列把安全问题交给别人。
The Gulf states have long feared being sold out by America to their Persian rivals, especially since the president first proposed engagement with Iran in 2009. The interim nuclear agreement with Iran has only inflamed those anxieties. They worry the West will accept a long-term deal that only addresses Iran’s nuclear program but ignores Iran’s ability to sponsor terrorism and sow sectarian violence from Lebanon and Syria to Bahrain, Iraq and Yemen — threats the Gulf states view as existential.
海湾国家一直担心被美国出卖给他们的波斯对手，特别是在美国总统于2009年首次提议与伊朗进行接触之后。与伊朗达成的临时核协议结果引发了焦虑情绪。他们担心西方国家会接受一个长期协议，这种协议解决了伊朗的核计划问题，却忽略了伊朗支持恐怖主义、在各个地方——从黎巴嫩、叙利亚到巴林、伊拉克和也门——播下宗派暴力种子的能力，海湾国家认为这种威胁是事关存亡的。
In the eyes of both Israel and the Gulf states, the United States is a country thousands of miles away, where the people are weary of war, legislators are cutting defense budgets and leaders regularly expound a shift toward Asia. But Iran and its proxies are on their doorstep. American military deployments, exercises and sales cannot overcome this fundamental imbalance of proximity and vulnerability.
在以色列和波斯湾国家眼中，美国是一个远在数千里之外的国家，那里的民众厌倦战争，议员们正在削减国防预算，领袖们经常把转向亚洲的战略挂在嘴边。而伊朗及其盟友却位于自家的家门口。面对这种危险近在咫尺和无从防备的根本性失衡，靠美国的军事部署、演习和军售是难以克服的。
They also seem to realize that America’s regional partners have few options available now that Mr. Obama has called his play and the broader international community supports the diplomatic track with Iran.
以色列和波斯湾国家似乎还意识到，既然奥巴马心意已决，国际社会又普遍支持对伊朗采取外交手段，那么，美国在该区域的伙伴已经没有多少选择了。
Would Israel really risk international isolation through a dangerous military strike at the moment the West seems ready to embrace Iran? Would the Gulf states really start buying Chinese military hardware and relying on the Russian Navy to protect their ports?
在西方似乎准备好接纳伊朗之际，以色列会不会顶着被国际社会孤立的风险，发动一场危险的军事打击？波斯湾国家会不会真的开始购买中国的军事装备，依赖俄罗斯海军来保护他们的港口？
There is another way out of this impasse for leaders in Jerusalem, Riyadh and Abu Dhabi: start working together to lay an alternative foundation for security in the Middle East. As unnatural as it may seem, they should sit down together and develop a series of actions that they will undertake jointly, take the proposal to Washington and offer it in exchange for firmer commitments from the United States.
对于耶路撒冷、利雅得和阿布扎比的领导人来说，还有另一条路能摆脱僵局，那就是携起手来，为中东地区的安全建立起另一个安全基础。他们应该坐下来一起制定一系列联合实施的行动，然后把提案带到华盛顿，以换取美方更加坚定的承诺，虽然这种方式看起来有些别扭。
For example, the Gulf states could advance Israeli-Palestinian negotiations by spelling out a process for normalizing relations with Israel, publicly embracing the outcome of Secretary of State John Kerry’s peace diplomacy, and committing to underwrite a compensation package for Palestinian refugees who forego their “right of return” to Israel.
举例来说，波斯湾国家可以推动以色列和巴勒斯坦的谈判，方式是明确阐明他们和以色列之间实现关系正常化的进程，公开接纳美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)的和平外交成果，对于放弃“回归权”的巴勒斯坦难民承诺提供一个补偿方案。
They could undertake joint actions to isolate Hezbollah and Hamas and shore up the moderate Palestinian Authority and Lebanese government; mutual commitments to insulate Jordan from the spillover from Syria’s civil war; and coordinated outreach to potential violators of anti-Iran sanctions. A joint proposal along these lines made to the White House could pave the way toward a regional security framework that benefits Washington’s traditional partners more than their Iranian rivals.
波斯湾国家可以采取联合行动，孤立真主党(Hezbollah)和哈马斯(Hamas)，支持立场温和的巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)和黎巴嫩政府；共同承诺让约旦免受叙利亚内战的波及；联手遏制可能出现的违背反伊朗制裁的情况。将一份以以上几点为基础的联合提议递交白宫，能够为构建地区安全框架铺平道路，美方的传统伙伴从框架中得到的益处，要大于与他们为敌、和伊朗同一阵线的对手们的得益。
This will not be easy, and it would require a degree of cooperation and trust among actors programmed to do the opposite. Any dealings with Israel would be denied by the Gulf states until they had something to show their publics for it, such as an agreement on Palestinian statehood. But if Israel and the Gulf states truly fear the outcome of a “bad” deal with Iran, working together may be the only alternative they have left to shape its terms. Otherwise, they will have to sit tight and hope the Iran negotiations break down on their own — an outcome largely beyond their control.
这并非易事，它需要一贯采取相反行动的各国之间有一定程度的合作和互信。海湾国家必须得有一些好处，好向本国人民交代，否则与以色列的任何协议它们都会否决。不过，如果以色列和波斯湾国家真的对美伊“坏”协议引发的后果感到担忧，携手合作也许是他们影响协议条款唯一的选择。否则，他们将不得不静待事态发展，寄希望于对伊谈判能够自行破裂——这样的结果，在很大程度上将超出他们的控制。