For years, the Obama administration prodded, cajoled and beseeched China to make commitments to limit the use of fossil fuels to try to slow the global effects of climate change.
多年来，为了试图减缓气候变化对全球的影响，奥巴马政府督促、劝诱并恳求中国做出限制使用化石燃料的承诺。
President Obama and other American officials saw the pledges from both Beijing and Washington as crucial: China is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, followed by the United States.
奥巴马及其他美国官员认为，北京和华盛顿的承诺很关键：中国是温室气体的最大排放国，其次是美国。
In the coming years, the opposite dynamic is poised to play out. President Trump’s signing of an executive order on Tuesday aimed at undoing many of the Obama administration’s climate change policies flips the roles of the two powers.
未来几年里将出现与过去截然相反的动态。特朗普总统周二签署了一项行政命令，目的是要撤销奥巴马政府在气候变化方面的许多政策，这就调换了中美两国的作用。
Now, it is far likelier that the world will see China pushing the United States to meet its commitments and try to live up to the letter and spirit of the 2015 Paris Agreement, even if Mr. Trump has signaled he has no intention of doing so.
现在，这个世界更可能看到的是，中国会推动美国履行其承诺，尽力在文字和精神上履行2015年达成的《巴黎协议》，尽管特朗普表示并无意这样做。
“They’ve set the direction they intend to go in the next five years,” Barbara Finamore, a senior lawyer and Asia director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York, said of China. “It’s clear they intend to double down on bringing down their reliance on coal and increasing their use of renewable energy.”
“他们已经确定了他们未来五年的行动方向，”芭芭拉·菲娜慕(Barbara Finamore)提到中国时说，她是一位资深律师，在位于纽约的自然资源保护委员会(Natural Resources Defense Council)担任亚洲项目主任。“很明显，他们打算加倍努力减少对煤炭的依赖，加倍努力增加对可再生能源的使用。”
“China wants to take over the role of the U.S. as a climate leader, and they’ve baked it into their five-year plans,” she added, referring to the economic development blueprints drawn up by the Chinese government.
“中国想取代美国成为应对气候变化的领袖，他们已将之写入了他们的五年计划，”菲娜慕补充说，“五年计划”指的是中国政府制定的经济发展蓝图。
Even before the presidential campaign last year, Mr. Trump had made statements consistent with climate change denial. He has also threatened to formally withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. Since Mr. Trump’s election in November, senior Chinese officials and leaders have been taking the high ground on the issue by urging all countries, including the United States, to abide by their climate commitments.
即使在去年的总统竞选活动之前，特朗普就曾发表过与气候变化否认者一致的言论。他还威胁要让美国正式撤出《巴黎协议》。自从特朗普去年11月当选总统以来，中国的高级官员和领导人一直在这个问题上拿出一种高姿态，敦促包括美国在内的所有国家遵守其气候承诺。
The biggest rhetorical turning point came in January, when Xi Jinping, China’s president, said at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that the Paris Agreement was “hard won” and should remain in force.
中国态度的最大转折点发生在今年1月，当时，中国国家主席习近平在瑞士达沃斯的世界经济论坛上说，《巴黎协议》“来之不易”，其有效性应该保持下去。
“All signatories should stick to it instead of walking away from it, as this is a responsibility we must assume for future generations,” he said.
习近平说，所有缔约国“应该共同坚守，不能轻言放弃。这是我们对子孙后代必须担负的责任”。
Other Chinese officials at Davos repeated that message, including the energy minister, Nur Bekri, and top executives of state-owned enterprises.
包括能源局局长努尔·白克力和国有企业高层管理者在内，出席达沃斯会议的其他中国官员也复述了这个信息。
In an interview before the recent climate conference in Marrakesh, Chai Qimin, a climate change researcher and policy adviser, said that policies adopted at a recent Communist Party meeting showed that China “has attached ever greater importance to ecological civilization and green development.”
在最近的马拉喀什气候变化大会召开之前的一次采访中，气候变化研究员兼政策顾问柴麒敏说，共产党在不久前的一个会议上采纳的政策表明，中国“更加重视生态文明和绿色发展”。
“Everyone is taking this more and more seriously,” he added.
“所有的人都在越来越认真地对待这个问题”，他补充说。
Chinese participation is critical for global efforts on climate change. With its economic growth and rampant infrastructure construction, China consumes as much coal as the rest of the world combined. The burning of coal, which is at the core of the power, steel and cement industries in the country, generates enormous amounts of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas. So environmental advocates and officials around the world constantly say China must break its coal addiction.
中国的参与，对应对气候变化的全球努力来说至关重要。由于中国的经济增长、以及上马了大批基础设施建设项目，中国的煤炭消耗量已相当于世界其他地区消耗量的总合。煤炭的燃烧支撑着国内的电力、钢铁和水泥行业，也产生了大量的制造温室效应的主要气体二氧化碳。因此，世界各地的环保倡导者和官员一再说，中国必须打破自己对煤炭的依赖。
But unlike in the United States, Chinese leaders and senior officials have consistently said that climate change is a serious problem and acknowledged that changing the energy mix to move away from fossil-fuel sources is important.
但与美国不同的是，中国领导人和高级官员一致认为，气候变化是一个严重的问题，他们承认，改变能源结构、减少化石燃料的使用十分重要。
And because of its air pollution crisis, China announced policies in 2013 to limit the use of coal in the country’s three largest population centers. More recently, scientists have said that there is a dangerous cycle at work: Weather patterns from climate change are exacerbating the smog.
而且，由于受空气污染危机的困扰，中国已于2013年宣布了限制在国内三大人口中心使用煤炭的政策。科学家们最近表示，可能有一种危险的恶性循环：气候变化带来的天气模式正在导致雾霾的加剧。
“China is cutting back on coal because of its lethal costs to human health as well as its high carbon emissions, and plans to transition to the energy sources of tomorrow, rather than yesterday,” said Isabel Hilton, founder of Chinadialogue, a prominent website that reports on environmental issues and policy. “President Trump seems intent on reviving a 19th-century energy source rather than pursuing the promise of the 21st century.”
对中国环境问题和政策进行报道的网站“中外对话”(Chinadialogue)的创始人伊莎贝尔·希尔顿(Isabel Hilton)说，“中国正在减少煤炭的使用，因为煤炭给人类健康带来致命的代价，也产生很高的碳排放，中国打算转向未来的能源，而不是昔日的能源。特朗普总统似乎想重振一种19世纪的能源，而不是追求21世纪的曙光。”
Mr. Trump’s pro-coal talk, and the unlikelihood that his administration will pressure China to cut back on fossil fuels, might mean that pro-coal interests in China, including among state-owned energy companies, will try harder to push back against officials putting limits on coal.
特朗普的亲煤言论，以及他的政府不大可能会向中国施压、让其减少化石燃料使用的前景，也许意味着，包括国有能源公司在内，中国亲煤炭利益集团将会更加努力地抵制官员对煤炭的限制。
But in recent years, coal consumption in China has declined slightly, surprising many analysts and researchers. China’s economic slowdown — from decades of double-digit annual growth to 6.7 percent last year — has been a major factor. Analysts say there appeared to be an increase in coal use during part of 2016 because of economic stimulus policies, but preliminary statistics released in February indicate that overall coal consumption declined last year compared with 2015.
但近年来，中国的煤炭消耗量已略有下降，这令许多分析人士和研究人员惊讶。中国经济增长放缓是一个主要的因素，去年，中国的经济增长率从过去几十年的两位数降低到了6.7%。分析人士说，由于经济刺激政策的出台，煤炭的使用在2016年的部分时间似乎有所增加，但2月份公布的初步统计数字显示，去年的煤炭消耗量与2015年相比仍有所下降。
Given such numbers, researchers say China may reach a carbon emissions peak in 2025 — five years ahead of its stated goal of 2030.
考虑到这些数字，研究人员表示，中国可能在2025年达到二氧化碳排放峰值，比中国宣布的2030年的目标提早五年。
China has also made pledges on the percentage of total energy that will be generated by non-fossil-fuel sources, which include hydropower, nuclear power, wind and solar. Mr. Xi has said that by 2030, 20 percent of China’s energy will come from such sources. Chinese officials are now grappling with the complex problem of getting energy generated by wind and solar sources onto the grid and properly used.
中国也在包括水电、核电、风能和太阳能等非化石燃料在能源结构中所占的比例作出了承诺。习近平说，到2030年，中国的总能耗中将有20%来自非化石燃料。中国官员目前正在努力解决让来自风能和太阳能的电力并入电网、让其得到正确使用的复杂问题。
“Trump’s rejection of regulatory action on climate change creates a vacuum in global climate leadership that China can now seize,” said Alex L. Wang, a law professor and China environmental expert at the University of California, Los Angeles. “In recent years, a variety of factors — crisis levels of pollution, economic opportunities from green development and concerns about the domestic risks of rising temperatures — have pushed China to action on climate change. Trump’s actions don’t affect these underlying drivers.”
“特朗普拒绝在气候变化方面采取监管行动，这就在全球应对气候问题的领导力上造成了真空，中国现在可以抓住这个机会，”加州大学洛杉矶分校法律教授和中国环境问题专家王立德(Alex L. Wang)说。“近年来，各种因素——污染达到了危机水平、绿色发展带来的经济机遇，以及对温度上升所带来的国内风险的担忧——推动了中国在气候变化方面的行动。特朗普的所作所为不会影响这些根本的动力。”
In addition, China has said that it will put in place by the end of this year a national market for greenhouse gas quotas, commonly known as a cap-and-trade program. It has experimented with seven such regional markets, and there have been problems with them, but the government is determined to set up a national program to put a price on carbon and impose a cost on companies that generate large amounts of carbon dioxide, Chinese policy advisers say.
此外，中国还表示，今年年底前将建成一个被称为“排放限额与交易”系统的温室气体配额全国市场。中国已在七个这类区域性市场中进行试验，尽管遇到一些问题，但政府建立一个全国碳排放交易系统的决心未变，这将让产生大量二氧化碳的公司付出代价，中国的政策顾问说。
China appears to be overperforming on other targets besides its carbon emissions peak date. It had stated that by 2020, 58 percent of its energy would come from coal consumption. Official statistics indicate China might meet that target early. Chinese officials now say they expect to get the number down to 60 percent this year.
除了提早让碳排放达到峰值外，中国似乎也在超前实现其他目标。中国曾表示，将在2020年让其能源消耗的58%来自煤炭。官方统计数据显示，中国可能提前达到这一目标。中国官员现在说，他们预计今年的煤炭消耗会降到总能耗的60%。
A report released in January by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, based in Ohio, said China was the world leader in domestic investment in renewable energy and associated low-emissions-energy sectors, with $103 billion invested in 2015. And China is going global with that strategy — last year, it invested $32 billion in large overseas deals involving renewable energy.
总部设在俄亥俄州的美国能源经济与金融分析研究所在1月份发布的一份报告中指出，中国在可再生能源和相关的低排放能源领域的国内投资处于世界领先地位，2015年的投资达到了1030亿美元。中国的这个战略正在向全球扩展，去年，中国达成的涉及可再生能源的大型海外项目的总投资为320亿美元。
“There are clear differences between the Chinese approach and the Trump administration on climate change,” Ms. Hilton said. “While Trump’s administration seems to believe that action on climate change is a waste of money and threatens jobs in the U.S., China sees investment in climate-related action as essential to secure a safe and prosperous future for Chinese citizens, as well as a strategic opportunity to develop and supply the technologies of the future.”
“在气候变化方面，中国的做法与特朗普政府的有明显的差别，”希尔顿说。“特朗普政府似乎认为，应对气候变化的行动是浪费金钱、给美国的就业带来威胁，而中国则把应对气候变化行动方面的投资，认为对确保中国公民有一个安全和繁荣的未来至关重要，也把这些行动看作是开发和提供未来技术的机会。”