Government officials, drug companies and medical experts, faced with outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant “superbugs,” are pushing to speed up the approval of new antibiotics, a move that is raising safety concerns among some critics.
面对耐抗生素的“超级细菌”的爆发，政府官员、制药公司及医学专家在推动加速批准新抗生素的措施，但此举在一些批评人士中引发安全担忧。
The need for new antibiotics is so urgent, supporters of an overhaul say, that lengthy studies involving hundreds or thousands of patients should be waived in favor of directly testing such drugs in very sick patients. Influential lawmakers have said they are prepared to support legislation that allows for faster testing.
支持全面整改审批的人表示，对新抗生素的需求十分迫切，以至于应该放弃审批前进行涉及上百或上千名对象的漫长研究的要求，靠给病情极为严重的患者用药来直接测试。有影响力的立法者曾表示，他们准备支持允许快速测试药物的立法。
The Health and Human Services Department last month announced an agreement under which it will pay $40 million to a major drug maker, GlaxoSmithKline, to help it develop medications to combat antibiotic resistance and biological agents that terrorists might use. Under the plan, the federal government could give the drug company as much as $200 million over the next five years.
美国卫生和公众服务部(Department of Health and Human Services)上个月宣布了一项协议，将支付给主要制药商葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)4000万美元（约合2.45亿元人民币），帮助该公司研发对付抗生素耐药性及恐怖分子可能使用的生物制剂的药物。根据该计划，联邦政府可能会在接下来的五年中给该制药公司提供多达2亿美元的资金。
“We are facing a huge crisis worldwide not having an antibiotics pipeline,” said Dr. Janet Woodcock, director of the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research at the Food and Drug Administration. “It is bad now, and the infectious disease docs are frantic. But what is worse is the thought of where we will be five to 10 years from now.”
美国食品药品监督管理局(Food and Drug Administration)药物评估与研究中心(Center for Drug Evaluation and Research)主任珍妮特·伍德科克(Janet Woodcock)说，“世界各地都面临抗生素产品线短缺的巨大危机。现在的情况很糟，治疗传染病的医生已经手忙脚乱。但一想到未来五到十年我们将面临的情况，那就更糟了。”
Annually, tens of thousands of Americans die from infections, largely acquired in hospitals, that are resistant to antibiotics, experts say.
据专家称，每年有数以万计的美国人死于对抗生素有耐药性的传染病，他们大多在医院被感染。
Doctors, faced with dwindling options and little time to decide, are often left with agonizing choices over how to save a patient’s life. For example, some doctors, in extreme cases, are again using Colistin, an older antibiotic that was largely abandoned years ago because of the damage it can cause the liver.
医生面临着选择越来越少、没有充足时间做决定等问题，他们常常被如何拯救病人生命的痛苦选择所困扰。例如，在极端情况下，一些医生再次使用多粘菌素E(Colistin)，这是一种老的抗生素类药，因为它会损害肝脏，多年前就基本上被放弃了。
“A drug like Colistin would not be developed today because it is too toxic,” said Dr. Helen W. Boucher, an infectious disease expert at Tufts University in Boston.
波士顿塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)传染病学专家海伦·W·鲍彻(Helen W. Boucher)说，“现在不会研发像多粘菌素E那样的药物，因为它的毒性太大了。”
Under a plan proposed by a professional medical group, the Infectious Disease Society of America, new antibiotics approved through quicker testing would carry a special label specifying that their use be limited to very sick patients.
根据专业医学组织美国传染病协会(Infectious Disease Society of America)提出的计划，经过快速测试获得批准的新抗生素将会贴上特殊标签，说明此类药物仅限病情极为严重的患者使用。
But critics of the plan argue that merely putting a restrictive label on a medicine is not enough, and that limited tests might not be adequate to determine a drug’s safety and effectiveness. They say they worry that the new medications, without the more comprehensive testing, could then be used on healthier patients who do not necessarily need them.
但是，该计划的批评者表示，仅仅给药物贴上限制标签是不够的，而且有限的测试或许不足以确定某种药物的安全性和有效性。他们说，他们担心缺乏更全面测试的新药可能会被用在病得不那么重的患者身上，而这类患者不一定需要那种药。
“There is really no way of knowing how these drugs are going to perform,” said Dr. John H. Powers, a former F.D.A. antibiotics reviewer who is now an associate professor at George Washington University in Washington.
前FDA抗生素评审专家、目前在乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)担任副教授的约翰·H·鲍尔斯(John H. Powers)说，“还无法了解这类药物的效果究竟会怎样。”
The overuse of antibiotics in people and animals, often for conditions for which the drugs are ineffective or not needed, is seen as a driving force in the development of resistant bacteria. As these organisms have evolved and developed resistance, the development of new drugs has not kept pace.
抗生素在人类和动物身上的滥用被认为是产生耐药性细菌的主要原因，滥用是指在没针对性或者根本没有必要的情况下使用抗生素。随着细菌发生变化，产生耐药力，新药的研发没能跟上去。
Pharmaceutical companies have frequently chosen to put their resources into developing drugs with bigger payoffs than antibiotics. Also, the F.D.A., after a scandal several years ago involving an antibiotic called Ketek, which the agency approved on the basis of fraudulent data and was subsequently linked to severe liver damage, has been cautious in approving new drugs, infectious disease experts say.
制药公司通常会选择把资源用来研制能比抗生素带来更大回报的药物。此外，传染病专家说，FDA在几年前的丑闻之后，在批准新药方面变得更谨慎了。这起丑闻与一种叫Ketek的抗生素有关，基于虚假数据FDA批准了这个抗生素，后来该药导致一些患者的肝脏受到严重损伤。
“It has been progressively more difficult to usher a new anti-infective to market,” said Dr. Vance G. Fowler Jr., an infectious disease expert at Duke University.
杜克大学(Duke University)的传染病专家小万斯·G·福勒(Vance G. Fowler Jr.)说，“如今，把新的抗感染药引入市场变得更难了。”
Efforts to develop new antibiotics are not limited to the United States. In Europe, several big producers including GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca recently became part of a joint government and industry initiative to develop antibiotics that kill resistant strains of bacteria. As part of the project, companies are pooling their resources and research data.
研制新抗生素的工作并不局限在美国。包括葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)和阿斯利康(AstraZeneca)在内的几家欧洲大型制药公司，最近都加入了政府和制药行业联合发起的研发项目，旨在研制能杀死耐药菌株的新抗生素。作为该项目的一个部分，各公司在共享资源和研究数据。
Along with the recent grant to GlaxoSmithKline, federal officials have also been giving grants to drug makers worth tens of millions of dollars to help them underwrite the costs of developing new antibiotics.
除了最近给葛兰素史克的拨款以外，联邦官员还给药品制造商拨了数千万美元，帮助他们承担研发新抗生素所需的成本。
In addition, Congress passed legislation last year that gives producers five more years of market exclusivity for effective drugs. The measure also directed the F.D.A. to review and approve new antibiotics more quickly, though it did not give specifics.
此外，国会去年也通过了相关法规，允许制药商将有效药物的市场专卖权延长五年。这项规定还要求FDA能够更快地审核与批准新抗生素，但没有详细阐明如何操作。
In April, two senators, Michael F. Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, and Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, said they saw legislation as a way to circumvent the time it takes for the Food and Drug Administration to change its testing procedures. A letter they sent to the F.D.A. highlighted the plan championed by the Infectious Disease Society of America.
4月，科罗拉多州民主党参议员迈克尔·F·贝内特(Michael F. Bennet)和犹他州共和党参议员奥林·哈奇(Orrin Hatch)说，他们认为需要用立法来避免美国食品与药品管理局改变审批药物程序所需的长时间。他们在发给FDA的一封信中强调了该计划受到了美国传染病学会的支持。
Under the plan, a new antibiotic, after testing in a small group of healthy patients to show that it is capable of killing regular bacteria, would be tested next, not in a larger group of healthy patients, but in those infected with drug-resistant strains of bacteria.
根据该计划，一种新型抗生素在一小组健康者中进行了测试，显示出它能够杀死通常的细菌后，下一步的测试将不在一个更大的健康者群体中进行，而是直接用于那些感染了耐药性菌株的患者。
Dr. Woodcock of the F.D.A. likened the speedier testing to the one used for orphan drugs, medications used to treat rare conditions. Unlike an orphan drug, however, an antibiotic might eventually be used in millions of people, an issue that even experts supporting faster testing acknowledge can produce complications.
FDA的伍德科克指出，这种较快速的测试与对罕见病药物进行的测试类似。然而与罕见病药物不同，抗生素可能最终会用于数以百万计的患者，即便是支持较快速测试的专家也承认，这会让问题变得更复杂。
For one thing, testing a drug in patients infected with resistant bugs may not yield strong conclusions about the medication, because it can be hard to determine whether a patient’s death or recovery is related to the drug, Dr. Fowler of Duke said. But he added that he believed if such studies were rigorously done they could provide answers.
首先，在感染了耐药性细菌的患者身上测试一种药，也许无法得出有关这种药物的强有力的结论，因为很难确定患者的死亡或康复是否与这种药物有关，杜克大学的福勒说。但他补充说，他认为如果研究是用严谨的方式进行的，那么它们能够提供答案。
“It is not perfect, but it can provide a body of evidence in an environment in which we have little or few options,” he said.
他说，“这并不完美，但能够提供一些证据，目前我们面临的局面是没有或几乎没有办法。”
Another concern is what will happen, after a new antibiotic wins special approval for limited use, to prevent the next generation of antibiotics from being overused.
另一个担忧是，在一种新抗生素赢得了有限使用的特殊批准之后，如何防止新一代抗生素被过度使用。