Until mid-June, there was one ray of hope in Detroit’s gathering storm: For all the city’s problems, its pension fund was in pretty good shape. If the city went under, its thousands of retired clerks, police officers, bus drivers and other workers would still be safe.
在6月中旬之前，风雨欲来的底特律仍存有一丝希望：这座城市虽然已千疮百孔，但养老金体系仍运转良好。即便城市破产，其数以万计的退休职员、警察、公交车司机以及其他劳动者仍然是安全的。
Then came bad news. Seemingly out of nowhere, a $3.5 billion hole appeared in Detroit’s pension system, courtesy of calculations by a firm hired by the city’s emergency manager.
然后坏消息就来了。根据该市紧急状态管理人所雇公司的计算，底特律养老金体系中毫无征兆地出现了一个高达35亿美元（约合214亿元人民币）的资金缺口。
Retirees were shaken. Pension trustees said it must be a trick. The holders of some of Detroit’s bonds realized in shock that if the city filed for bankruptcy — as it finally did on Thursday — their claims would have even more competition for whatever small pot of money is available.
退休人员慌了神。养老金受托人说这肯定是个骗局。一些底特律债券持有人惊讶地意识到，如果该市申请破产——周四它终于这么做了——他们甚至将面临更多竞争者，来争夺已经所剩无几的金钱。
But Detroit’s pension revelation is nothing new to many people who run pension plans for a living, the math-and-statistics whizzes known as actuaries. For several years, little noticed in the rest of the world, their staid profession has been fighting over how to calculate the value, in today’s dollars, of pensions that will be paid in the future.
然而，对于很多以经营养老金计划为生的人——那些人被称为“精算师”的数学和统计行家，底特律养老金体系中暴露的问题并不新鲜。外界很少有人注意到，这个一丝不苟的职业一直在为如何以现在的美元计算在未来支付的养老金价值。
It may sound arcane, but the stakes for the country run into the trillions of dollars. Depending on which side ultimately wins the argument, every state, city, county and school district may find out that, like Detroit, it has promised more to its retirees than it ever intended or disclosed. That does not mean all those places will declare bankruptcy, but many have more than likely promised their workers more than they can reasonably expect to deliver.
听起来或许有些晦涩，但它对美国来说却意味着数万亿美元的差别。每个州、市、县都有可能发现自己陷入了和底特律一样的处境，向退休人员承诺了过多养老金，超过了其曾计划或公布的数目。这取决于哪方将最终赢得这场争论。这并不意味着所有这些地方都将宣布破产，但是，很多地方很可能向其劳动者做出了它们无法履行的承诺。
The problem has nothing to do with the usual padding and pay-to-play scandals that can plague pension funds. Rather, it is the possibility that a fundamental error has for decades been ingrained into actuarial standards of practice so that certain calculations are always done incorrectly. Over time, this mistake, if that is what it is, has worked its way into generally accepted accounting principles, been overlooked by outside auditors and even affected state and municipal credit ratings, although the ratings firms have lately been trying to correct for it.
这个问题和通常困扰养老金基金的假帐以及“买票入场”丑闻不同。这里实际上存在这样一种可能：数十年来，一个根本性错误已在精算标准中生根，从而导致一些计算永远是错的。时间久了，该错误——如果真是这样的错误——悄悄进入被广泛接受的会计准则，被外部审计员忽视，甚至影响到州和市的信用评级，尽管信用评级公司最近一直在努力做出相应的校正。
Since the 1990s, the error has been making pensions look cheaper than they truly are, so if a city really has gone beyond its means, no one can see it.
自20世纪90年代以来，由于存在该错误，养老金表面上一直低于实际成本，因此，如果一个城市真的入不敷出，没有人能够发现。
“When the taxpayers find out, they’re going to be absolutely furious,” said Jeremy Gold, an actuary and economist who for years has called on his profession to correct what he calls “the biases embedded in present actuarial principles.” In 2000, well before the current flurry of pension-related municipal bankruptcies, he wrote his doctoral dissertation on how and why conventional pension calculations run afoul of modern economic principles.
“如果纳税人发现真实情况，他们肯定会发怒，”精算师、经济学家杰里米·戈尔德(Jeremy Gold)说。多年来他一直在呼吁精算界纠正他所称的“深嵌于现存精算规则中的误差”。早在目前与养老金有关的市政府破产潮爆发前，杰里米就于2000年在其博士论文中阐述了传统养老金计算方法如何以及为何违反了现代经济原则。
Mr. Gold made his prediction about taxpayer fury in an interview a number of years ago in which he also explained why he had chosen his topic. He said he hoped to help put a stop to the errors he saw his colleagues making before pension problems that were already starting to brew then boiled over and a furious public heaped blame, scorn and legal liability on the profession.
戈尔德几年前就在一次采访中做出了这番预言，他还解释了自己为何要选择这个话题。他说在养老金问题事发前，他就曾希望把同行们正在犯的错误纠正过来，而如今这个问题已经发酵，并最终爆发出来，促使愤怒的公众对他所从事的这一行大加指责和嘲弄，并要追究其法律责任。
When a lender calculates the value of a mortgage, or a trader sets the price of a bond, each looks at the payments scheduled in the future and translates them into today’s dollars, using a commonplace calculation called discounting. By extension, it might seem that an actuary calculating a city’s pension obligations would look at the scheduled future payments to retirees and discount them to today’s dollars.
当一个借贷者计算按揭价值，或者一个交易者为一支债券定价时，他们都要评估根据约定要在未来进行的支付，然后按照一个被称为贴现的常用计算方法，将其按照目前美元价格进行转化。引申到养老金的情况可能就是这样的情景：一名计算一座城市养老金债务的保险精算师，会评估要在特定时间支付给退休人员的养老金，并将其按目前美元进行贴现。
But that is not what happens. To calculate a city’s pension liabilities, an actuary instead projects all the contributions the city will probably have to make to the pension fund over time. Many assumptions go into this projection, including an assumption that returns on the investments made by the pension fund will cover most of the plan’s costs. The greater the average annual investment returns, the less the city will presumably have to contribute. Pension plan trustees set the rate of return, usually between 7 percent and 8 percent.
但是，现实情况并非如此。要计算一所城市的养老金负担，精算师会预测该城市在长时间内要向养老金计划中投入的资金数量。该计划中包含很多假定，其中有一条就是养老基金的投资所得足够负担该养老计划的大部分成本。照理说，平均年投资收益率越大，该城市需要投入的资金就越少。养老金计划受托人通常把收益率设定在7%到8%之间。
In addition, actuaries “smooth” the numbers, to keep big swings in the financial markets from making the pension contributions gyrate year to year. These methods, actuarial watchdogs say, build a strong bias into the numbers. Not only can they make unsustainable pension plans look fine, they say, but they distort the all-important instructions actuaries give their clients every year on how much money to set aside to pay all benefits in the future.
另外，保险精算师会“修整”数字，确保金融市场内的大幅波动不会推动养老金投入资金逐年螺旋上升。保险精算监管者称，这些方法给数字注入了极大的偏见。监管者表示，它们不仅使不可持续的养老金计划看上去没有问题，而且每年客户要决定需投入多少钱用于支付未来的福利时，来自精算师的重要指导意见也是被这些方法扭曲过的。
If the critics are right about that, it means even the cities that diligently follow their actuaries’ instructions, contributing the required amounts each year, are falling behind, and they don’t even know it.
如果批评者说的是对的，那就意味着即便是勤勉遵循其保险精算师意见，每年按要求投入一定资金的城市，也在渐渐入不敷出，而且它们甚至不知道这一点。
These critics advocate discounting pension liabilities based on a low-risk rate of return, akin to one for a very safe bond.
这些批评人士认为，进行养老金负债贴现的时候应当依据一种低风险回报率，其水平应接近于非常安全的债券。
In the years since his doctoral research, Mr. Gold and like-minded actuaries and economists have been presenting their ideas in professional forums and in scholarly papers crammed with equations and letters of the Greek alphabet. They have won converts, but so far no changes in the actuarial standards. Their theoretical arguments tend to fly over the head of the typical taxpayer.
早在为博士论文作研究的年代，戈尔德就已经与志同道合的精算师和经济学家一起，在专业论坛和充斥着方程式与希腊字母的学术论文中宣扬他们的观点。他们赢得了一些追随者，但直到现在精算准则也没有任何变化。普通纳税人往往不拿他们的理论观点当回事。
Year after year there has been consistent resistance from the trustees of public pensions, the actuarial firms that advise them and the unions that represent public workers. The unions suspect hidden agendas, like cutting their benefits. The actuaries say they comply fully with all actuarial standards of practice and pronouncements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board. When state and local governments go looking for a new pension actuary, they sometimes post ads saying that candidates who favor new ways of calculating liabilities need not apply.
时间一年年地过去，公共养老金受托管理人、担任顾问的精算事务所和代表公共部门雇员的工会都一直对此持抗拒态度。工会怀疑这里有什么阴谋，比如要削减他们的福利。精算师们则表示，他们完全遵循了所有的精算行为标准，以及政府会计准则委员会(Governmental Accounting Standards Board)颁布的各项条例。当州政府和地方政府寻找新的养老金精算师时，它们张贴的广告上有时会写上，喜欢用新方法核算负债的候选人不必费心申请这个职位。
Much of the theoretical argument for retaining current methods is based on the belief that states and cities, unlike companies, cannot go out of business. That means public pension systems have an infinite investment horizon and can pull out of down markets if given enough time.
主张保留当前核算方法的理论主张大部分都基于对一个信念：州及市镇不同于企业，不会倒闭。这意味着，公共养老体系的投资期是无限的，而且只要时间足够长，就总能从下行的市场中脱身。
As Detroit has shown, that time can run out.
底特律已经告诉我们，时间也是有用完的时候的。