DETROIT — In a ruling that could reverberate far beyond Detroit, a federal judge held on Tuesday that this battered city could formally enter bankruptcy and asserted that Detroit’s obligation to pay pensions in full was not inviolable.
底特律——周二，一名联邦法官裁定，这座饱受打击的城市可以正式进入破产程序，并宣称，底特律支付全额退休金的义务并非不可违反。这一裁决的长期影响可能会远及底特律以外。
The judge, Steven W. Rhodes, dealt a major blow to the widely held belief that state laws make public pensions untouchable, and his ruling is likely to resonate in Chicago, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and many other American cities where the rising cost of pensions has been crowding out spending for public schools, police departments and other services.
人们普遍认为州法律保障公共养老金不可侵犯，但法官史蒂文·W·罗兹(Steven W. Rhodes)则大大动摇了这一信念。他的判决很可能会在芝加哥、洛杉矶、费城及美国的许多其它城市引发连锁反应，在这些城市，高涨的养老金投入一直在挤压公立学校、警察局和其他服务的支出。
The judge made it clear that public employee pensions were not protected in a federal Chapter 9 bankruptcy, even though the Michigan Constitution expressly protects them. “Pension benefits are a contractual right and are not entitled to any heightened protection in a municipal bankruptcy,” he said.
这名法官明确表示，公务员的退休金不受联邦破产法第九章(Chapter 9)保护，尽管密歇根州宪法(Michigan Constitution)明文规定对它们予以保护。他说，“养老金福利是一项契约权利，在市政破产案中，它无权受到任何特殊的保护。”
James E. Spiotto, a lawyer with the firm Chapman & Cutler in Chicago who specializes in municipal bankruptcy and was not involved in the case, said: “No bankruptcy court had ruled that before. It will be instructive.”
专门处理市政破产案的芝加哥查普曼和库特勒(Chapman & Cutler)律师事务所律师詹姆斯·E·斯皮奥托(James E. Spiotto)说，“没有一家破产法院做出过这样的判决。这个判决将具有指导意义。”他没有参与底特律的案子。
For people in Detroit, the birthplace of the Motown sound and of the American auto industry, Judge Rhodes’s decision that the city qualified for bankruptcy amounted to one more miserable, if expected, assessment of its woeful circumstances. The city has lost hundreds of thousands of residents, the judge said, only a third of its ambulances function, and its Police Department closes less than 9 percent of cases.
底特律是摩城唱片公司(Motown)和美国汽车工业的发源地，对这里的居民来说，法官罗兹做出底特律符合破产要求的判决，就等于对这座城市的糟糕处境做出又一个负面评判，虽说这种评判早在意料之中。罗兹法官说，这座城市已经流失了数十万居民，只有三分之一的救护车在运行，警察局的结案率还不到9%。
“This once proud and prosperous city can’t pay its debts,” said the judge, who sits in United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. “It’s insolvent. It’s eligible for bankruptcy. But it also has an opportunity for a fresh start.”
“这个一度骄傲而繁华的城市无力还债。”这名主掌美国联邦破产法院密歇根州东区事务的法官说。“它无力偿债，符合破产条件。不过，它还是有一个重新开始的机会。”
Appeals were expected to be filed quickly. At least one union filed a notice of appeal on Tuesday, and other unions and pension fund representatives said they were considering contesting the outcome as well. But the ruling also allows Kevyn D. Orr, an emergency manager assigned in March by the state to oversee Detroit’s finances, to proceed swiftly with a formal plan for starting over — a proposal to pay off only a portion of its $18 billion in debts and to restore essential services, like streetlights, to tolerable levels.
预计有人将很快提出上诉。至少有一家工会在周二发出了上诉通知书，其他工会和养老基金代表表示，他们正在考虑对判决结果提出质疑。不过，此次裁决还允许紧急状态管理人凯文·D·奥尔(Kevyn D. Orr)能够加快推进一项重整底特律的正式计划，密歇根州于今年3月指定他监管底特律的财务状况。根据计划，底特律将偿付180亿美元（约1100亿元人民币）债务中的部分债务，重新把街灯等基本服务恢复到可以容忍的水平。
Mr. Orr said he intended to file the formal blueprint, known as a “plan of adjustment,” by the first week of 2014. That plan could include efforts to spin off city departments to outside entities, to sell city assets and to reinvest in failing city services. Mr. Orr has said his goal is to bring Detroit, the nation’s largest city ever to find itself in bankruptcy, out of the court process by next fall.
奥尔说，他打算在2014年第一个星期以前提交被称为“调整计划”的正式规划。这项计划可能包括的措施有：把市政部门剥离，交由外部实体管理；变卖市政财产；并对陷入困境的市政服务项目进行再投资。奥尔已经表示，他的目标是，到明年秋天让底特律结束法院程序，底特律是迄今为止美国出现的最大的破产城市。
“We have some heavy work ahead of us,” Mr. Orr said on Tuesday.
奥尔周二说，“我们面临着一些繁重的工作。”
Around Detroit, leaders sounded somber but mildly hopeful tones. Mayor-elect Mike Duggan said that Tuesday was a day no one wanted to see, but that the city now needed to move forward. And Dave Bing, the departing mayor, whose tenure in office has been consumed by the financial distress, said it was inevitable that Detroit would ultimately be found insolvent. “We are now starting from square one,” he said.
在底特律各处，领导们的语气严峻，不过也略带希望。候任市长迈克·杜根(Mike Duggan)说，周二是谁也不想看到的一天，但是这座城市此刻需要向前走。即将离任的市长戴夫·宾(Dave Bing)说，底特律落入破产的境地在所难免。“现在，我们正从头开始。”宾在任时，一直受到财务窘境的困扰。
Municipal workers and retirees said they were shaken by the developments, and unsure what to expect. Any cut to pensions, many said, would be crushing.
市政员工和退休人员表示，此事的发展让他们倍受打击，不知道接下来还会出现什么问题。许多人说，任何削减养老金的行为都将造成破坏性的后果。
“The impact of this is going to be catastrophic on families like mine on fixed income,” said Brendan Milewski, 34, a Detroit firefighter who was seriously injured in an arson in 2010 and said he received a pension of $2,800 a month from the city. “Retirees are going to be put out of house and home. They’re not going to be able to afford a car, food or medicine.”
34岁的底特律消防员布伦丹·米莱夫斯基(Brendan Milewski)说，“判决产生的影响，对像我这样依靠固定收入的家庭来说是具有灾难性的。”米莱夫斯基在2010年处理一次纵火案时受了重伤，他说，他每月能从市政府拿到2800美元的养老金。“退休人员会被赶出家门，赶出养老院的门。他们会连一辆车、连食品或医疗费都负担不起。”
Bruce Babiarz, a spokesman for the Detroit Police and Fire Retirement System, was blunt in his assessment. “This is one of the strongest protected pension obligations in the country here in Michigan,” he said. “If this ruling is upheld, this is the canary in a coal mine for protected pension benefits across the country. They’re gone.”
底特律警察和消防员退休系统(Detroit Police and Fire Retirement System)发言人布鲁斯·巴比亚尔兹(Bruce Babiarz)在评判时直截了当。他说，“密歇根州对养老金给付义务的保护在全国来说可谓领先。如果此次裁决获得支持，它对全国各地受保护的养老金福利来说，将是一个危险的预兆。这些福利会不复存在。”
In perhaps the most contested portion of the case, the judge made it clear that federal bankruptcy law trumps the state law when it comes to protections for public employees’ pensions, making the pensions of 23,000 retirees fair game for the city to include in its plan of adjustment. But while the judge said pensions could not be treated differently from other unsecured debt, he said the court would be careful before approving any cuts in monthly payments to retirees.
在谈到公务员养老金的保护问题时，法官明确表示，联邦破产法高于州法律，从而使底特律2.3万名退休人员也成为调整计划的一个目标，这也许是本案最具争议的部分。然而，虽然法官说，不能将养老金和其他无担保债务区别对待，但他还是表示，在批准任何削减退休人员月收入的计划时，法院都会小心谨慎。
Experts said the decision seemed unlikely to prompt a rush of bankruptcy filings by cities, but was likely to give cities more leverage over pensions in negotiations before bankruptcies. Detroit has included $3.5 billion in unfunded pension liabilities in its larger mound of debt, and city lawyers say it can simply no longer afford its pension plan.
一些专家说，此次裁决似乎不太可能让各市争相提出破产申请，不过，它可能会让各市在破产前的协商中，在养老金问题上掌握更大优势。底特律堆积如山的债务里，已经包括了35亿美元的养老金缺口，市政律师说，市政府可以直截了当地不再负担本市的养老金计划。
For his part, Mr. Orr said he had a difficult reality to present to retirees. “There’s not enough money to address the situation no matter what we do,” he said. “That is clear.” At another point, he said of the pension question, “We’re trying to be very thoughtful, measured and humane about what we have to do.”
从他的角度而言，奥尔说，他要向退休人员展示一个艰难的现实。“不管我们怎么做，都没有足够的资金化解困局。”他说，“这一点是明白无误的。”他在说到老金问题时又提到，“对于将要采取的措施，我们正努力做到更周到、全面和人性化。”