DETROIT — In a trial set to open in the federal courthouse here on Tuesday, nothing short of this city’s future is at stake.
底特律——联邦法院将于周二进行的一场庭审，足以决定底特律的未来。
If Judge Steven W. Rhodes approves a blueprint drawn up by Detroit officials to eliminate more than $7 billion of its estimated $18 billion in debts and to invest about $1.5 billion into the city’s now dismal services, it will mark the beginning of the end of the nation’s largest-ever municipal bankruptcy. The outcome will set this troubled city’s new course for the coming decades, perhaps longer.
如果法官史蒂文·W·罗兹(Steven W. Rhodes)批准了底特律官员制定的计划——将大约180亿美元（约合1100亿元人民币）的债务减少逾70亿美元，为这个城市惨淡的公共机构投资大约15亿美元——这将标志着，美国史上规模最大的城市破产案进入解决的过程。审理结果将为这个陷入困境的城市规划未来数十年甚至更久的新方向。
In deciding whether the city’s plan is equitable, feasible and in the best interest of creditors, Judge Rhodes will send significant messages beyond Detroit about the rarely tested powers and limits of municipal bankruptcy, at a time when many cities are struggling with underfunded pensions, neglected infrastructure and declining industries.
通过裁定该市的计划是否公平、可行，是否符合债权人的最大利益，罗兹法官将会就市政府破产这一很少加以实践的权力及其限制，向底特律之外的其他地方，传达一些重要的信息。此时此刻，很多城市都面临养老金亏空、基础设施陈旧，以及产业衰退的问题。
Municipal bankruptcy, known as Chapter 9, was designed to give creditors, and even judges, less power than Chapter 11 corporate bankruptcy does, but the law has never before been tested on this scale. Leaders of other cities will be watching closely, turnaround experts said, as the judge decides whether a city may shelter municipal retirees even as it imposes harsher losses on financial creditors; whether it can use bankruptcy to repudiate some capital-markets debts entirely; and whether a city in bankruptcy may avoid selling off valuable assets to raise money for its creditors, as Detroit hopes to do with its art collection.
与破产法第十一章针对公司破产的规定相比，市政破产规定，也就是破产法第九章的内容，向债权人和法官赋予的权力较少，但该法此前从未经历过如此大的考验。资产重组专家表示，其他城市的领导层会密切关注，因为法官将裁定：城市能否在使金融债权人蒙受更大损失的同时，扶助市政退休人员；能否通过破产拒绝偿付一些资本市场的债务；破产的城市为了筹集资金偿债，是否必须要出售宝贵资产——底特律就希望留住收藏的艺术品。
For months, as the city’s lawyers struck deals during mediation with retirees and other creditors, Detroit’s passage through bankruptcy has gained momentum, raising the possibility that after seeking bankruptcy protection just one year ago, it might emerge with relative ease and remarkable speed, by fall. Yet, as Judge Rhodes prepares to hear what is expected to be more than a month of testimony on the city’s blueprint, serious impediments and numerous unknowns remain.
数月来，该市的代表律师与退休人员及其他债权人通过协商调节，达成了妥协，于是底特律走出破产的步伐有了更强的动力，取得乐观发展的可能性也增强了：申请破产保护才过了一年，底特律有望在今年秋天就能相对轻松、颇为高效地运转。罗兹法官接下来将听取有关该市计划的证词，这一过程估计要花费一个多月，但此时仍然存在一些严重的障碍和无数未知情况。
In voting that is part of the bankruptcy process, majorities of six classes of the city’s creditors cast ballots in favor of the city’s plan in recent months, but five other voting classes rejected it. Some opponents, including the bond insurers Syncora and Financial Guaranty, have vehemently fought the plan, saying it improperly favors some creditors over others, and uses a questionable transaction to put the riches of the art collection beyond the creditors’ reach.
在破产程序中的投票表决环节，该市六个组别的债权人中，多数人最近几个月投票支持了该计划，但另有五个投票组别反对该计划。包括债券保险公司Syncora和Financial Guaranty在内的债权人，强烈反对该计划，称该计划不当地偏袒一些债权人，还通过可疑的交易使债权人无法获得该市拥有的艺术品。
Beyond those problems, Judge Rhodes must grapple with larger, essential questions about Detroit’s fate: Even if the city’s debt-cutting answers Detroit’s immediate financial crisis, will it go far enough to prevent the city from sliding back into the same miserable circumstances of overwhelming debt, annual operating deficits and the threat of default and another bankruptcy in the years ahead? And will new spending to improve firefighting, police protection and archaic computer technology, and to remove tens of thousands of dilapidated buildings, be enough to restore city services and stop decades of departure and decline?
除了上述问题，罗兹法官还必须面对有关底特律命运的更大的重要疑问：即使底特律减少债务的措施解决了眼下的财政危机，它能否防止底特律在未来几年里，再次滑向同样的悲惨境遇——包括无力偿付的债务、年度运营赤字，甚至违约和再度破产？新的支出又能否改善消防、警力保障和落后的电脑技术，拆除上万座废圮的建筑；是否足以恢复市政服务，结束几十年来居民外迁和城市衰落的趋势？
“This is a unique situation when you think about it,” said Craig A. Barbarosh, a bankruptcy lawyer with the firm Katten Muchin Rosenman who is based in Costa Mesa, Calif., and represents some creditors. “It’s not like a company, where the judge can say, ‘O.K., I’m going to liquidate the city.’ ”
“如果你仔细想想，这其实是个不同寻常的局面，”卡登·穆沁·罗森曼律师事务所(Katten Muchin Rosenman)破产律师克雷格·A·巴巴罗什(Craig A. Barbarosh)说。“它不像是一家公司，法官不能说，‘好吧，我要清算这个城市。’”巴巴罗什在加利福尼亚州科斯塔梅萨工作，是本案中一些债权人的代理律师。
Under the plan the city hopes Judge Rhodes will confirm, Detroit’s more than 100,000 creditors would get a wide range of returns on their claims. Investors who bought $1.4 billion of certificates the city issued in 2005, to raise money for its pension system, could come away nearly empty-handed, since Detroit now calls the borrowing a sham transaction that should be voided entirely. By contrast, investors who bought a type of general obligation bond that was backed by a special, dedicated tax are slated to recover 74 cents on the dollar.
在市政府希望罗兹法官批准的方案中，底特律市超过10万名债权人在要求偿债时，获得的补偿会相差悬殊。底特律2005年为了给养老系统筹集资金发行了14亿美元的债券，这部分投资者可能血本无归，原因是底特律政府现在把那次借贷称作应该彻底避免的虚假交易。相比之下，购买了一种一般责任债券的投资者，一美元的投资可以收回74美分，因为该债券由一种特殊的专门税费担保。
Creditors slated to get little or no money from the grand bargain hope to persuade Judge Rhodes that it cannot be approved, arguing that it discriminates unfairly and is not in the best interests of creditors.
从这个大方案中拿到的补偿很少，甚至分文未得的债权人，希望说服罗兹法官不要予以批准，理由是方案存在不公正的歧视，不符合债权人的最佳利益。
During the trial, city lawyers will attempt to present evidence and witnesses, including Mayor Mike Duggan and Kevyn D. Orr, the emergency manager who has overseen this city for more than a year, to back up the need for their plan. A consultant hired by Judge Rhodes, Martha E. M. Kopacz, is to be questioned on her finding that Detroit’s plan of debt adjustment is feasible.
在庭审过程中，市政府的律师们将尝试提交证据、传唤证人，包括市长麦克·杜根(Mike Duggan)和紧急状态管理人凯文·D·奥尔(Kevyn D. Orr)，以证明他们方案的必要性。罗兹法官聘请的顾问玛莎·E·M·科帕茨(Martha E. M. Kopacz)将接受质询，阐述她对底特律债务调整方案可行性的看法。