DETROIT
底特律
Tom Kartsotis, the wealthy co-founder of Fossil, has no connection to the Motor City. He lives in Dallas, where he now oversees a handful of ventures he’s invested in. In early 2011, he decided to build a small watch factory that would sell high-quality watches that were priced, as he puts it, “at the entry point of luxury.”
汤姆·卡特索蒂斯(Tom Kartsotis)是Fossil的联合创始人，很富有，与这座“汽车城”(Motor City)并无关联。他居住在达拉斯，目前在那里监督着他投资的几家公司。2011年年初，他决定创办一家小型表厂，出售高品质手表，用他的话说，这些表的价格定位是“入门级奢侈品”。
He also wanted to make these watches in America. “So many big companies have sourcing infrastructures whose knee-jerk reaction is to head to China,” he said. He couldn’t compete with China at the low end of the market — nobody can. But he felt that the kind of watches he had in mind — priced between $450 and $600 at the low end, with a distinctive but classic design — could be made competitively in the United States. So he decided to put his new factory here in Detroit, a city once renowned for its manufacturing prowess that, in recent times, has needed all the help it can get.
他还希望在美国制造这些手表。“很多大公司的外包系统有一个下意识反应，就是去中国，”他说。在低端手表市场，他无法与中国竞争——没人能行。但他觉得，他想推出的那种手表——最低售价在450美元（约合人民币2800元）到600美元之间，设计独树一帜，但却很经典——可以在美国制造，并且仍然具有竞争力。于是他决定把这家新工厂开在底特律。这座城市曾以制造能力闻名于世，但在近些年，它陷入了极大的困境。
That original idea turned into a company called Shinola. It has eight retail outlets and employs around 375 people, most of them in Detroit. Although those stylized watches are its biggest sellers — the company expects to sell between 150,000 and 180,000 this year — it also designs and makes bicycles, leather goods and other well-crafted, high-end products. Not only are those products built in Detroit, but Shinola also tries to buy the parts it needs from other American companies. Its leather, for instance, comes from the Horween Leather Company, a Chicago tannery more than a century old. Its bicycle frames are shipped from a company run by a fourth-generation Schwinn.
从这个初步想法出发，他成立了一家名为Shinola的公司。该公司拥有八个零售网点，约375名员工，其中大部分都在底特律。虽然Shinola最畅销的就是这些颇为时尚的手表——该公司预计，今年的销售量在15万至18万只之间——它也设计和制造自行车、皮具等精心制作的高端产品。Shinola不仅在底特律制造这些产品，还试图从其他美国公司那里采购它所需要的材料部件。比如它的皮革就来自已经有百年历史的芝加哥皮革公司Horween。它的自行车车架则来自第四代施文(Schwinn)传人经营的一家公司。
Although it was a philanthropic impulse that moved Kartsotis to set up shop in Detroit, it has turned out to be a very good business decision. The space Shinola needed to build its factory was cheap. There was also plenty of talent — engineers, for sure, but also former auto assembly-line workers, people eager to work who Shinola could train to be watchmakers. When I visited the watch factory recently, I saw rows of employees bent over their desks, focusing intently as they placed tiny, intricate parts inside the unassembled watches.
卡特索蒂斯到底特律进行生产虽然是出于善心，但事实证明，这是一个很好的商业决定。 Shinola用来建厂的地产的价格很便宜。而且这里也有大量人才，不管是工程师，还是那些曾在自动流水线上工作的工人，Shinola可以把这些渴望工作的人们培训成制表师。最近我参观这家表厂时，看到一排排雇员埋头在自己的桌子前，专心致志地把微小、复杂的零件安装在尚未完工的手表里。
Indeed, to spend any time in Detroit these days is to be amazed at the extent to which it is humming with entrepreneurial activity. Dan Gilbert, the founder and chairman of Quicken Loans — which he relocated to Detroit — has bought more than 70 buildings and is converting some of them into office space for small businesses. There are other buildings with common work spaces and tools like 3-D printers than can be shared. The city’s government and, especially, its foundations are focused on helping people who want to start a new business. I spoke with a woman named Julie James, who, with her four sisters, manufactures a brand of juices they call Drought. It employs 32 people. Another company, The Floyd Leg, makes handsome, colorful legs for furniture; its work force is seven people. New companies like these are starting every day.
事实上，如今只要在底特律待上一会儿，就会惊讶于这里创业活动的蓬勃程度。丹·吉尔伯特(Dan Gilbert)是Quicken Loans的创始人兼董事长，他将这家公司迁到了底特律，迄今已购买了70多座建筑物，并把其中一些改造成办公空间，供小企业使用。还有其他一些建筑物提供共享的工作空间和工具，比如3D打印机等。这座城市的政府，特别是它的基金会，把侧重点放在帮助人们创业上。我采访了一位名叫朱莉·詹姆斯的女性(Julie James)的女性，她和四个姐妹创立了一个果汁品牌，名为Drought，一共雇佣了32人。另一家叫Floyd Leg的公司生产样式漂亮、色彩缤纷的家具腿，共有七个雇员。这样的新公司每一天都在涌现出来。
Kartsotis told me that “creating a few hundred jobs isn’t going to move the needle.” He’s right about that, of course. But, collectively, all these small companies do seem to be helping to bring Detroit back. Young people are moving in to the downtown and midtown areas. The unemployment rate is dropping. Once-abandoned buildings are being reoccupied. There are retail stores and restaurants that didn’t exist even a few years ago. Something very good is happening here, and it’s largely the result of private-sector activity. Kartsotis isn’t the only entrepreneur whose desire to come to the aid of a once-great city has turned out to be a smart business move.
卡特索蒂斯告诉我，“创造几百个工作机会不会改变总体形势。”当然他说得没错。但是，所有这些小公司的努力合在一起，似乎真的在帮助底特律经济复苏。年轻人搬到了市区中心和附近。失业率有所下降。一度废弃的建筑物被重新启用。这几年还有一些新的零售店和餐馆冒出来。这里正在发生一些非常好的事情，从很大程度上说，这是私营部门活动的结果。怀着帮助这个曾经辉煌的城市的愿望，做出了事后来看很精明的商业举措，像这样的企业家并不止卡特索蒂斯一个。
If it seems clear that companies like Shinola are the way forward for Detroit, it is not so clear whether they are also the way forward for American manufacturing more generally. “I’m proud of what this company stands for,” Jacques Panis, Shinola’s president, told me. When I asked him just what that is, he replied: “High-quality manufacturing jobs for America.”
情形似乎很清楚，Shinola这样的公司是底特律前进的方向，但不那么清楚的是，这是否也是美国制造业整体上的前进方向。“我为这家公司所代表的东西感到自豪，” Shinola总裁雅克·潘尼斯(Jacques Panis)告诉我。我问他Shinola代表的是什么，他回答：“美国制造业中的优质就业机会。”
Shinola’s products are well-designed and made. They are selling briskly. But they are not cheap, and they’ll never be mass produced. I’ve written before about how even big manufacturers like Caterpillar and General Electric employ far fewer workers than they used to thanks to automation. Shinola offers a different twist on that idea. It’s not automation that is restricting the number of workers but rather the niche appeal of its products. I’m not sure its example is particularly replicable.
Shinola的产品设计、制作俱佳，销量很好，但价格并不便宜，永远不会大批量生产。我以前曾写过，由于采用自动化设备，即使是像卡特彼勒(Caterpillar)和通用电气(General Electric)这样的大型制造商，都大大减少了工人人数。对此，Shinola提供了一条不同的思路：限制工人数量的不是自动化，而是相关产品的小众吸引力。我不知道Shinola的例子是不是特别具有可复制性。
As for Shinola, Kartsotis is readying its next product: Shinola-style headphones that can compete with high-end models like those from Beats. He told me that he has just completed a round of financing and hopes to take the company public one day.
至于Shinola，卡特索蒂斯正在为下一款产品做准备：Shinola式耳机，可以与Beats等厂商的高端耳机竞争。他告诉我，他刚刚完成了一轮融资，希望该公司有一天能够上市。
Which will be good for him — and Detroit.
那不仅对他是件好事，对底特律也一样。