WHEN readers hear about “modern slavery” in America or abroad, they may roll their eyes and assume that’s an exaggeration. Slavery? Really? Modern slavery? 
听人说起美国或国外的“现代奴隶制”，读者可能会翻白眼，认为那是夸大其词。奴隶制？真的？现代奴隶制？
If you’re one of the doubters, then listen to Poonam Thapa, a teenage girl I met here in Nepal, where she is putting her life back together after being sold to a brothel.
如果你也是有怀疑的人，那就听听卜纳姆·塔帕(Poonam Thapa)的故事。她是我在尼泊尔遇到的一个十来岁女孩，之前被卖到妓院，如今正努力恢复生活。
And if you think, as Amnesty International suggested recently, that the solution is to decriminalize the commercial sex trade around the world, then pay special heed.
如果你也像国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)最近表示的那样，认为这种问题的解决方案是让商业性交易在全世界合法化，那你可要特别注意了。
Poonam was poor and uneducated when a woman offered an escape in the form of a well-paying job. “You can have a better life,” Poonam remembers the woman saying. “And if you make good money, you will be respected by your father. You can help your family.”
卜纳姆过去很穷，也没受过教育，当时有个女人给她提供了一份收入不错的工作，让她可以逃离原有的生活。“你可以过上更好的生活，”卜纳姆记得那个女人说。“而且，如果你赚很多钱，你的父亲会尊重你。你还能帮助自己的家人。”
So Poonam, then age 12, ran off with the woman. When Poonam was eventually deposited in a brothel in Mumbai, India, she was puzzled. “I didn’t even know what a brothel was,” she recalls.
所以12岁的卜纳姆就跟着这个女人跑了。当最终被安置到位于印度孟买的一家妓院时，她很困惑。“我甚至不知道妓院是什么，”她回忆道。
The brothel owner, a woman, dolled her up in a skimpy dress, equipped her with falsies, and gave her heels. Then the owner sold Poonam’s virginity to an older man.
妓院的老鸨把她打扮得花枝招展——身着暴露的裙子，胸部塞上乳垫，脚上穿着高跟鞋，然后把她的初夜卖给了一个老男人。
“The man raped me,” Poonam says. “I didn’t know what he was doing. But I was bleeding and hurting and crying.”
“那个男人强奸了我，”卜纳姆说。“我不知道他在干什么。但我在流血，很疼，我哭了。”
The brothel owner sternly told Poonam to buck up — she had paid $1,700 for Poonam and needed to recover her investment. So Poonam was locked inside the brothel, forced to have sex with 20 to 25 men a day, and more on Sundays and holidays. There were no days off, no trips outside the brothel, and, of course, no pay.
老鸨严厉地告诉卜纳姆要打起精神——她花了1700美元买下卜纳姆，需要收回这笔投资。所以卜纳姆被关在妓院里，每天被迫与20至25个男人发生关系，周日和假期的时候，人数还会更多。她没有休息日，没有外出的机会，当然也没有报酬。
One day Poonam was hurting and refused a customer. She says the brothel-owner beat her and burned her with cigarettes; she showed me the scars.
有一天，卜纳姆因为疼痛而拒绝接客。她说妓院老板因此打了她，还用香烟头烧她；她给我看了她的伤疤。
Poonam thus became one of 20.9 million people worldwide — a quarter of them children — subjected to forced labor, according to the U.N.’s International Labor Organization. In the United States, tens of thousands of children are trafficked into the sex trade each year.
卜纳姆成为全球强制劳工中的一员。据联合国的国际劳工组织统计，全球共有2090万名强制劳工，其中有四分之一是儿童。在美国，每年有数以万计的儿童被卖入性交易行业。
Men visiting Poonam’s brothel paid $2.50 for sex and were sometimes oblivious to the brutality, flattering themselves that the girls liked their work. They see girls who often smile; no one is holding a gun to their heads.
在卜纳姆所在的妓院，男性顾客每次支付2.5美金，有时候他们对虐待行为视而不见，自欺欺人地说这些女孩喜欢自己的工作。他们看到的是，女孩们经常微笑，也没人拿着枪对着她们的脑袋。
Poonam responded with what so many others have said: The smiles are on the outside, even as girls are crying inside.
对此，卜纳姆的回应和很多其他人曾经说过的一样：那些微笑是表面的，尽管她们心里在哭泣。
“We were told to smile, because a smile is money and will pull in customers,” Poonam said. The girls were also ordered to say that they were over 18 and working voluntarily.
“我们被告知要微笑，因为笑了才有钱赚，才能吸引客户，”卜纳姆说。这些女孩还被命令要告诉别人自己已经超过18岁，并且是自愿在这里工作。
Then one day police raided the brothel. Warned by the brothel owner that the police would torture her if they found she was a child or trafficked, Poonam claimed that she was 23 and working voluntarily, but the police could see that she was a child and took her to a shelter.
有一天警察对妓院进行了突击搜查。妓院老板警告她，如果警察发现她是儿童，或发现她是被卖来的，就会对她进行拷问。卜纳姆称自己23岁，是自愿在这里工作，但警察可以看出来她是个孩子，把她带到了一个庇护所。
Indian authorities returned Poonam to the care of Maiti Nepal, a leading anti-trafficking organization. Now Poonam is studying to be a social worker in hopes of helping other trafficked girls. A new study suggests that post-traumatic stress disorder is frequent among those who have been trafficked.
印度当局将卜纳姆送回了尼泊尔，交给极具影响力的反人口贩卖组织“尼泊尔母亲之家”(Maiti Nepal)照顾。现在卜纳姆正在学习如何做一名社工，她希望自己能帮助其他被贩卖的女孩。一项新研究显示，那些曾经被贩卖过的人有很多都患上了创伤后精神失调。
Anuradha Koirala, founder of Maiti Nepal, notes that there has been a bit of progress against sex trafficking of Nepali girls. A crucial step, whether in Nepal or the United States, is ending the impunity for pimps and traffickers, and Koirala says that Maiti Nepal has helped prosecute 800 people for involvement in trafficking. In America as well, we need to prosecute traffickers rather than their victims.
“尼泊尔母亲之家”创始人阿努拉达·柯伊拉腊(Anuradha Koirala)指出，制止尼泊尔女孩被卖作妓女的努力已经取得了一点进展。不管是在尼泊尔还是美国，要解决这一问题至关重要的一点是，让皮条客和人贩子不能逃脱惩罚。柯伊拉腊表示，尼泊尔母亲之家已经帮助起诉了800个人贩子。在美国也是一样，我们需要起诉人贩子，而不是受害者。
Plenty of well-meaning people back Amnesty International’s proposal for full decriminalization of the sex trade, including of pimps and brothels, and it’s certainly true that some women (and men) work in the sex trade voluntarily. Yet in practice, approaches similar to Amnesty’s have ended up simply empowering pimps. And while under these proposals human trafficking would remain illegal, the police would no longer have a reason to raid brothels to search for girls like Poonam. Both Poonam and Koirala think that full decriminalization is a catastrophic idea; if it were in place, Poonam might still be enslaved.
很多人出于好意对国际特赦组织的建议予以支持，该组织建议性交易全面合法化，包括皮条客和妓院。没错，肯定有一些从事性交易的女性（和男性）是自愿的。但在实践中，与国际特赦组织的建议类似的措施，结果只是让皮条客更嚣张。而且在这些建议之下，人口走私依然是非法的，警方将没有理由对妓院进行突然袭击，以便搜寻和卜纳姆有一样遭遇的女孩。卜纳姆和柯伊拉腊都认为，全面合法化将是一个灾难性的建议；如果当时已实施，卜纳姆可能现在还在被奴役。
“There is no protection to the powerless,” Koirala said of full decriminalization. “All the benefits go to the perpetrators and exploiters.”
“这种建议对那些无能为力的人没有任何保护，”柯伊拉腊在谈到合法化时讲到。“所有的好处都让作恶者和剥削者占了。”
The blunt truth is that no strategy works all that well against trafficking. But maybe the most successful has been Sweden’s, cracking down on traffickers and customers while providing social services and exit ramps for women in the sex trade.
对付人口贩卖没什么好策略。可能最成功的是瑞典采取的严厉打击人口贩子和嫖客，同时给从事性工作的女性提供社会服务和摆脱这个行业的跳板。
I’m in South Asia on my annual win-a-trip journey, taking a student — this year it’s Austin Meyer of Stanford University — with me to report on neglected social issues. That’s what human trafficking is, an ugly form of exploitation that at its worst amounts to modern slavery. In the 21st century, isn’t it finally time to abolish slavery forever?
我正在南亚进行每年一次的“与纪思道同行”活动，我带着一名学生——今年是斯坦福大学的奥斯汀·迈耶(Austin Meyer)——和我一起报道被忽视的社会议题。这就是人口拐卖，一种丑恶的剥削方式，在最糟糕的情况下，它无异于现代奴隶制。在21世纪的今天，我们难道不应该彻底废除这种东西吗？