WASHINGTON — Like April for accountants or December for flying reindeer, September in recent years has become an especially challenging month for presidents and congressional leaders.
华盛顿——对总统和国会领导人来说，近些年的9月，已经和会计师的4月、飞天驯鹿的12月一样，成为了颇具挑战性的一个月。
But even by modern standards, President Obama faces a daunting list of tasks after returning to Washington on Sunday from a relatively quiet two-week vacation on Martha’s Vineyard — with legislative deadlines and visits from world leaders already penciled into his September schedule.
然而，在玛莎葡萄园岛度过两周相对平静的假期后，周日回到华盛顿的奥巴马总统需要面对的一系列工作事项，即使以现代的标准都是令人生畏的——立法提案的最后期限，以及各国领导人的访问，已经早早写入他的9月日程表。
On the domestic front, Congress will have to pass funding legislation by the end of September to avoid shutting down the government for the second time in two years. With only 15 legislative days on the Senate calendar for the month, a brewing fight over whether to end federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and a raft of senators running for president, it could be difficult to pass even a short-term funding measure despite vows by senior Republican legislators that they will not support a shutdown.
国内事务方面，国会需要在9月底之前通过拨款法案，避免政府在两年内第二次停摆。尽管共和党一众资深议员信誓旦旦地表示他们不会支持政府停摆，但这个月参议院只有15个立法日，是否切断计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)联邦资金来源的问题即将引发一场撕斗，再加上不少参议员正在竞选总统，即使一个短期拨款措施都会很难通过。
And there are other pieces of must- and should-pass legislation, including extending authority for highway and infrastructure spending, reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank and dealing with various expiring tax provisions. Cybersecurity legislation and a movement to scale back tough federal criminal sentencing laws will also require time and attention.
还有一些法案是必须也应该通过的，比如高速公路和基础设施开支权限的延期，进出口银行(Export-Import Bank)的再授权，还有多项税务条款到期的问题需要处理。网络安全的立法，舒解过分严厉的联邦罪案量刑法，这些都需要时间和关注。
“Republicans in Congress have their work cut out for them,” said Jennifer Friedman, deputy White House press secretary.
“国会的共和党人们面前摆着一大堆艰巨任务，”副白宫新闻发言人珍妮佛·弗里德曼(Jennifer Friedman)说。
Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said that work would be a lot easier if Mr. Obama and congressional Democrats were not so obstructionist.
肯塔基参议员、多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)的发言人唐·斯图尔特(Don Stewart)说，要不是奥巴马和国会民主党人处处碍手碍脚，这些工作会轻松很多。
“We have a lot to do, but we have plans to do it,” Mr. Stewart said. “The president, on the other hand, will have a very difficult September because he’s trying to do things despite bipartisan opposition against him, such as on the Iran deal.”
“我们有很多事要做，但我们是有计划的，”斯图尔特说。“总统的9月就会比较困难了，因为他会不顾两党的反对去做一些事，比如伊朗协议。”
Indeed, one of the most anticipated legislative battles of the year will be over whether Congress can override an expected presidential veto and reject the Iran nuclear deal negotiated by the United States and five other countries.
这的确是今年最受瞩目的立法对战之一，它将决定国会能否推翻预料中的总统否决，拒绝由美国及其他五国共同协商得出的伊朗核协议。
The deadline for the first vote is Sept. 14, and if both the House and Senate reject the deal with anything close to veto-proof majorities, the Iran drama could consume much of September and even the first week of October.
第一次表决的最后期限是9月14日，如果参众两院都能以不畏总统否决的多数票否决该协议，伊朗这桩事将消耗9月的相当一部分时间，甚至要蔓延到10月的第一周。
While Mr. Obama has aggressively defended the Iran deal, and has gone on the offensive to woo lawmakers, he will face myriad distractions during the month.
奥巴马一直在强势维护伊朗协议，并主动去争取议员的支持，但这个月有很多事会分散他的精力。
He will have to put on a tuxedo and a wary smile for a rare state dinner and summit meeting with President Xi Jinping of China.
他还要穿上礼服，带着谨慎的笑容，去参加一场难得的国宴，和中国的习近平主席举行峰会。
Pope Francis will arrive in Washington on Sept. 22 and visit the White House the next day, according to his schedule. The pope will deliver a speech before Congress on Sept. 24, and there is likely to be intense interest from the White House on how he chooses to address that body, which is filled with climate change skeptics.
根据日程安排，教宗方济各将于9月22日抵达华盛顿，并于次日造访白宫。9月24日教宗会在国会讲话，在这个充斥着气候变化质疑者的地方，他的讲话内容对白宫会有莫大的影响。
Mr. Obama has made the battle against climate change a signature issue in his second term, one that he intends to highlight when he gives speeches in Las Vegas on Monday and in New Orleans on Thursday, and during a visit to Alaska in the first few days of September. The pope is likely to touch upon the moral dimension of climate change and economic inequality.
奥巴马已经把围绕气候变化展开的争斗当做自己的第二任期首要问题，他计划周一在拉斯维加斯、周四在新奥尔良、以及9月初访问阿拉斯加时，发表演讲强调这一议题。教宗的讲话可能会从道德层面触及气候变化和经济不平等问题。
Given the agreement between Mr. Obama and the pope on such signature issues, the pope’s visit with the president may pass uneventfully for the White House. Far more delicate decisions will be needed on how to handle the conclave of world leaders who are expected to arrive in New York at the end of September to attend the United Nations General Assembly.
鉴于奥巴马和教宗在这些标志性问题上的共识，教宗的到访对白宫来说不会掀起什么波澜。倒是9月底的联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)期间，各国领导人前来纽约参加的闭门会议，处理起来要棘手的多。
Will Mr. Obama meet again with President Raúl Castro of Cuba after the opening of diplomatic relations between the two countries? Will he meet President Hassan Rouhani of Iran or President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, whose foreign minister said last week that Mr. Putin would “consider constructively” any request from Mr. Obama for a meeting? Presidential aides said those decisions had yet to be made.
在和古巴恢复外交关系后，奥巴马是否会再次会见该国总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)？要不要会见伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)或俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)？上周俄罗斯外长说普京会“建设性地考虑”奥巴马的会面邀请。总统助手则说还没有做出决定。
Michael E. O’Hanlon, a foreign-policy analyst at the Brookings Institution, said that even without the budget and other issues in Congress, the visit by Mr. Xi, the Iran vote and the decisions and meetings surrounding the United Nations meeting made for a challenging month.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)外交政策分析师迈克尔·E·奥汉隆(Michael E. O'Hanlon)说，就算没有在国会的预算和其他问题，仅仅是习近平访美、伊朗协议表决以及有关联合国大会的决策和会面，就已经让这个月充满挑战。
“The bottom line is that it will be a heck of a September, rivaled in recent years perhaps only by last September, when we had Ebola and ISIL’s rise to contend with, along with the war in Ukraine and a few other matters,” he said.
“基本上这个9月是非常难的，近年来只有去年的9月可以相提并论，当时我们要面对埃博拉病毒，要应对ISIL势力的抬头，还有乌克兰的战事等等诸多问题，”他说。