SHANGHAI — For the Chinese Super League club Shanghai Shenhua, a new season has brought fresh optimism.
上海——对于中国足协超级联赛俱乐部上海申花来说，新赛季带来了新希望。
After several years of turmoil during which the team was stripped of its 2003 C.S.L. title in a match-fixing investigation and the foreign stars Didier Drogba and Nicolas Anelka departed midway through their contracts amid a shareholder dispute, Shenhua is rediscovering success, with three wins to start the season. The players have an obvious chemistry, too — even if they cannot always understand one another.
这支球队过去几年一直风波不断：2003年的中超联赛冠军头衔在足坛反赌扫黑行动中被剥夺，原因是虚假比赛。球队的明星外援迪迪埃·德罗巴(Didier Drogba)和尼古拉·阿内尔卡(Nicolas Anelka)又因与股东发生分歧在合同期内中途转会。在经历了几年的混乱期之后，申花如今又尝到了成功的滋味，赛季一开始就获得了三连胜。球员们也明显有了默契——即使他们并不总是能明白对方的意思。
At a recent practice in Shanghai’s sprawling suburbs, Shenhua’s latest marquee signing, the Australian national team player Tim Cahill, bantered with the captain Giovanni Moreno of Colombia and several Chinese teammates in a mix of English, Chinese and Spanish. The team’s interpreters were kept busy as the goalkeepers’ coach, Juan Mesquida Garcia, barked rapid-fire instructions in Spanish, and the new manager, Francis Gillot, gave interviews to the news media in French.
最近，在上海宽敞的郊区场地进行训练时，申花最新签约的明星外援、澳大利亚籍球员蒂姆·卡希尔(Tim Cahill)正在与来自哥伦比亚的队长吉奥瓦尼·莫雷诺(Giovanni Moreno)以及几个中国队友，交替用英语、汉语和西班牙语谈笑风生。守门员教练胡安·梅斯基达·加西亚(Juan Mesquida Garcia)用西班牙语连珠炮似的进行着指导，新教练弗朗西斯·吉洛特(Francis Gillot)正在用法语接受媒体采访，球队的翻译们在他们旁边忙碌地工作。
Shenhua is emblematic of the new and improved Chinese Super League: It is increasingly globalized, brimming with newfound professionalism and flush with cash, thanks to its deep-pocketed owner, Greenland Group, one of China’s largest real estate developers. The product on the field is becoming more watchable, too.
申花是中超联赛崭新面貌的缩影：越来越全球化，展现出新的专业性，资金充足。最后一点要归功于它财大气粗的所有者、中国最大的地产开发商之一绿地集团。中超联赛的比赛也越来越具观赏性。
“People aren’t familiar with the Chinese league — they judge it without knowing anything about it,” said Gillot, a former manager of Bordeaux. “But when they watch the matches, they realize they are good quality.
“人们对中超联赛并不熟悉——他们对它一无所知，却妄加评论，”曾担任过波尔多教练的吉洛特说。“不过，他们看到中超联赛的比赛时，就会意识到比赛的质量很不错。”
“I see Chinese players who are at a very, very high level, and they could play today in the French Ligue 1,” he said, referring to France’s elite division.
“我看到一些水平非常非常高的中国球员，他们完全可以参加法国足球甲级联赛的比赛，”他说。
What a difference a few years makes. Chinese soccer used to be difficult for fans to enjoy — the C.S.L. was mired in corruption scandals and uninspired play, prompting Chinese state television to stop broadcasting games, sponsors to pull out and attendance to flag.
发生如此大的变化只用了短短几年。中国足球曾经让球迷们头疼不已——中超一度陷入腐败丑闻的泥潭，球赛质量也十分平庸，导致中国的官方电视台停播了中超比赛，赞助商纷纷撤资，球场上的观众人数日益减少。
The league’s mismanagement had an effect with the national team as well. China suffered a number of humiliating defeats, including a 5-1 loss in 2013 to a Thai team composed mainly of junior players that prompted spectators to riot outside the stadium, shouting, “Disband the national team!”
中超联赛的管理不善也对中国国家队产生了影响。中国队遭遇了几次令人难堪的惨败，包括2013年曾以1比5负于一支主要由年轻运动员组成的泰国球队。比赛结束后，观众在体育馆外围追堵截，高喊：“解散国家队！”
Just when it seemed Chinese soccer could not sink any lower, the government decided it had seen enough. A corruption crackdown shook up the C.S.L., resulting in the arrests of dozens of top-level officials, national players and referees on match-fixing charges.
就在中国足球看起来已经似乎不可救药之际，中国政府采取了行动。一场打击腐败的行动震动了中国超级联赛，数十名相关高层官员、国家队员和裁判员因为假球遭到逮捕。
And the suddenly, with credibility at least partly restored, sponsors and investment returned in a big way, along with the sport’s disillusioned fans.
由于信誉至少在一定程度上得到了恢复，赞助商和投资纷纷回归，失望的球迷也回到了球场。
Guangzhou’s club experienced perhaps the biggest turnaround: Relegated to China’s second division in 2010 as punishment after allegations of match fixing, the team was bought by a big-spending real estate group, Evergrande, and it signed Italy’s World Cup-winning coach, Marcello Lippi, and the high-priced foreign players like Argentine Dario Conca. Three years later, it became the first Chinese team to win the Asian Champions League trophy.
广州的俱乐部或许经历了最大的转变：2010年，由于被指踢假球，这支球队受到了降级的惩罚，后被一掷千金的房地产集团恒大收购。它还签下了赢得过世界杯冠军的意大利教练马尔切洛·里皮(Marcello Lippi)，以及阿根廷的达里奥·孔卡(Dario Conca)等价格不菲的外国球员。三年后，广州恒大成了第一支赢得亚洲冠军联赛的中国球队。
Last year, the team got another boost when the Chinese online sales behemoth Alibaba purchased a 50 percent stake for $192 million. It also announced it would set up soccer academies for young Chinese players in Spain and the Netherlands.
去年，这支球队再次获得助力：中国网络销售巨头阿里巴巴以12亿元人民币的价格收购了它50%的股权。该公司还宣布将在西班牙和荷兰为年轻的中国足球运动员设立足球学院。
Now every team in the league wants to replicate the Evergrande model. According to FIFA, during the recent winter transfer window, Chinese Super League clubs spent a record $85.5 million on foreign players — the third-highest total in the world and more than five times what they spent in 2013.
如今，每一支中超球队都想复制恒大模式。国际足球联合会(FIFA)称，在最近的冬季转会窗口，中超俱乐部聘请外援的花费达到了8550万美元（5.3亿元人民币），创下历史新高——在全世界排名第三，是2013年花费的五倍还多。
Evergrande was again the biggest spender, paying a C.S.L.-record $16.2 million for the Brazilian Ricardo Goulart, but other clubs also made flashy deals, most notably Shanghai SIPG, which signed Conca for a reported $10.8 million per year and hired the former England manager Sven-Goran Eriksson as coach.
恒大再一次成了最阔气的买主，它以1620万美元的价格签下了巴西的里卡多·高拉特(Ricardo Goulart)，创下了中超俱乐部的最高纪录，其他俱乐部也达成了引发轰动的交易，最引人注目的要数上海上港集团足球俱乐部，据称它以每年1080万美元的价格签下了孔卡，并聘请了前英格兰队教练斯文-戈兰·埃里克森(Sven-Goran Eriksson)担任教练。
Conca’s salary has not been confirmed by his club, but if it is accurate, it would be similar to the salaries received by Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.
这家俱乐部没有证实孔卡的工资，但如果这个数字属实，将与克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多(Cristiano Ronaldo)和利昂内尔·梅西(Lionel Messi)的工资水平不相上下。
“Suddenly, everyone buys top foreigners,” said Mads Davidsen, a Danish assistant coach at Shanghai SIPG who has been in China since 2013. “When I came here, the foreigners on C.S.L. teams didn’t have that good a level. Now it’s extremely difficult to come here as a foreigner. You have to have a high level. All of this has helped lift the league.”
“突然之间，人人都在购买顶级外国球员，”上海上港队的丹麦籍助理教练麦斯·大卫森(Mads Davidsen)说。大卫森2013年以来一直在中国发展。“我刚来中国的时候，中超球队的外援水平不是很好。如今，想要成为外援极其困难。必须有相当高的水准。这一切都提升了中超联赛的水平。”
The league’s top three scorers this season are Brazilians, with Paulo Henrique of Shanghai Shenhua leading the league with four goals in four games. None of the top eight scorers are Chinese.
中超联赛本赛季进球最多的三名运动员都是巴西籍，其中，上海申花的保罗·恩里克(Paulo Henrique)在四场比赛中进球四粒，排名第一。进球最多的八名球员中无一是中国人。
Teams are paying attention to physical training, analytics and scouting — things that were formerly afterthoughts, Davidsen said. And the pace of play is much faster.
大卫森说，一些球队目前正专注于体能训练、分析数据和物色球员，而在以往，这些一般都不是需要重点考虑的东西。比赛的节奏也比从前快了许多。
“One of problems was the tempo — the Chinese players played too slow,” Davidsen said. “They got a shock how fast the game is when they played at the international level.”
“比赛节奏曾经是一个问题——中国球员踢得太慢了，”大卫森说。“当他们参加国际比赛时，都会对比赛节奏之快感到震惊。”
After a surprise run to the quarterfinals of the Asian Cup in January, China looked strong in draws with Tunisia and Haiti last month as it prepared for the Asian qualifiers for the 2018 World Cup, starting in June. China has qualified for the World Cup only once, in 2002, and failed to score a goal in three losses.
在今年1月意外地进入亚洲杯四分之一决赛后，中国在上个月与突尼斯和海地的比赛中打成了平手，看起来十分强大，与此同时，它正在为6月开始的2018世界杯亚洲预选赛做准备。中国唯一一次杀入世界杯决赛圈是在2002年，后来输掉三场比赛，赛场上颗粒无收。