Just a few minutes’ drive from the polo fields, the fieldstone walls guarding 10-acre estates and the Greenwich Country Day School, from which the elder George Bush graduated in 1937, is far denser terrain, where the homes are smaller and closer together and part of a public housing complex that seems escaped from New York City.
康涅狄格州格林威治——从这座马球场、围着10英亩土地的粗石墙以及格林威治郊区走读学校（Greenwich Country Day School，老布什于1937年毕业于这所私立学校）再驱车几分钟，人们会发现地形突然显著密集起来。这些面积小、间距窄的房子属于一个公共住房项目的一部分，看上去像是从纽约城里搬过来的。
This, too, is Greenwich, and the two public elementary schools in this part of town look, demographically, nothing like most schools in the whiter, wealthier areas. At both, minority students make up at least two-thirds of the enrollment, including some students who are the children of housekeepers, landscapers and construction workers who keep up the lavish homes in the backcountry.
这儿也是格林威治，而这边的两所公立小学，从人口统计学上说，看上去和大多数有钱人、白种人聚居地的学校完全不同。这两所学校的少数族裔学生至少占总学生数的三分之二，包括一些在偏远地区帮助维护大房子的管家、庭院设计师和建筑工人们的孩子。
And that is putting the town on a collision course with the State of Connecticut.
这使得小镇和康涅狄格州之间产生了冲突。
Segregation within school districts is not unique to Greenwich — one need look no farther than New York City to find mostly white schools a few blocks from mostly black schools. But Connecticut is one of a few states that forbid districts from letting any of their schools deviate too much in racial makeup from any of their other schools.
学区内的种族分离现象并不是只有格林威治才有——不用往远了找，只要看看纽约市，就能发现以白人为主的学校和以黑人为主的学校之间往往只间隔几个街区。但康涅狄格州是少数几个不一样的州之一，它禁止所管辖区域的任何一所学校在学生的种族组成上和其他学校之间有过大的偏差。
The Greenwich district, where minority students constitute one-third of the overall public school population, is trying to come up with solutions. But as previous attempts to correct the imbalance have failed to keep up with population shifts, the district’s leaders and many parents are challenging the notion that the law, which was passed in 1969, is even relevant today.
在格林威治区，少数族裔学生占所有公立学校学生数量的比例达三分之一，使得那里的人们努力寻找解决方法，但之前为克服这一失衡所做的努力都没能跟上人口结构的变化。学区领导人和许多家长都认为，这个在1969年通过的禁令在如今已不现实了。
“In 2013, that is a very different conversation than in the civil rights era,” the superintendent, William S. McKersie, said. “We are getting high-quality outcomes. The challenge with the state is, ‘Are you applying an old understanding of how to get educational opportunity that could undermine what we are trying to do here?’ ”
“现在是2013年，和民权运动的时代相比，情况已经很不相同了，”学区长威廉·麦克西(William S. McKersie)说。“我们如今的教育成果质量已经很高了。州里现在面临的挑战应该是，‘你对怎样获得教育机会的理解是否还停留在过去？那种旧观念会破坏我们现在的努力。’”
Based on a number of measures, including high school students’ performance on SAT and Advanced Placement exams, Greenwich in recent years has ranked near the top among Connecticut districts in its economic class, said Kimberly D. Eves, a district spokeswoman. She said, “We are among the top performing districts in the state, over all.”
该区发言人金柏莉·伊夫斯(Kimberly D. Eves)说，根据一系列指标来衡量，包括高中生在学术评估测试(SAT)和大学预修课(Advanced Placement)考试的表现，近年来格林威治的经济课程在康涅狄格州几乎排在首位。她说：“整体表现上，我们在整个州所有学区中名列前茅。”
The district’s student body breaks down as 69 percent white, 16.9 percent Hispanic, 8 percent Asian, 2.9 percent black and 2.8 percent multiracial.
该区的全体学生中，白人占69%，拉丁裔人占16.9%，亚裔占8%，黑人和多民族人则分别占2.9%和2.8%。
State law says that no school’s nonwhite enrollment can deviate from the districtwide average for schools with the same grade levels by more than 25 percentage points. In addition to New Lebanon and Hamilton Avenue Elementary, the two schools on the western edge of town with too few white students, two schools on the far eastern and northern sides of town are flirting with imbalance of an opposite kind: having too few minority children.
康涅狄克州的法律规定，与全区所有学校同年级的非白种学生所占的平均比例相比，所有学校的偏差都不能超过25%。除了新黎巴嫩小学(New Lebanon Elementary)和汉密尔顿大道小学(Hamilton Avenue Elementary)（这两所学校在镇的最西边，白人学生很少），镇最东北角的两所学校也面临着失衡的危险，不过它们的情况相反：少数族裔学生太少。
Greenwich education officials are weighing several proposals for state review, including starting additional magnet schools and doing some modest redistricting, with busing for those options. This week, district officials updated state education officials on their plans.
格林威治教育官员正在制定几个提案以供康涅狄格州审核，包括多开设优质磁石学校（由政府提供经费支持的公立学校，学校开设各类选修课程以适应学生的成长和发展——译注）以及进行适度的学区重新划分，所有提案都建议为学生提供校车接送服务。本周，该学区官员向州官员介绍了这些计划的最新内容。
In a statement, Stefan Pryor, the state education commissioner, defended the law as a way to improve the quality of education for all students in Greenwich.
在一项声明中，该州教育局长斯蒂芬·普雷尔(Stefan Pryor)为种族多样性法律辩护，称其是改善格林威治所有学生受教育质量的方法。
“Greenwich has grappled with this issue for years,” Mr. Pryor said, “undertaking, for example, efforts regarding magnet schools and facility upgrades, with limited effect to date.” Noting that Greenwich “continues to have a significant achievement gap,” he said it was important that the district make greater progress.
“格林威治抓这个问题已经好几年了，”普雷尔先生说，“做了不少努力，比如开设磁石学校和设施升级，但至今收效甚微。”同时他表示格林威治“教育成果分化仍然严重”，应该努力取得更大的进步。
Greenwich officials say they have made gains, even if not enough.
格林威治官员说，即使成效不显著，但他们的确已经取得了一些成果。
The gap between whites and blacks on meeting state goals in reading dropped to 27.4 percentage points in the 2011-12 academic year, from 32 points five years earlier, said John Curtin, the district’s special projects manager. For whites and Hispanics, the gap fell to 21.7 percentage points, from nearly 30 points in the same period, he said. (Asians make up only a tiny percentage of the students at the two schools.)
区特别项目主管约翰·科廷(John Curtin)说，就达到州目标分数而言，白人和黑人学生的阅读能力差距从前几年的32个百分点降低到了2011-2012学年的27.4个百分点。同期，白人和拉丁裔人的差距则从30个百分点缩小至21.7个百分点。（亚洲学生在这两所学校所占的比例非常小。）
Dr. McKersie, the superintendent, said, “We are not satisfied with the quality of education we are providing, particularly to our low-income Latino and African-American students, and our other low-income students.”
学区长麦克西博士说：“我们对我们提供的教育质量并不满意，特别是对来自低收入拉丁裔和非洲裔家庭以及其他低收入家庭的学生。”
But in making their case that improving education might not be as simple as rebalancing the schools’ racial makeup, Greenwich officials point to another, smaller gap. In New Lebanon and Hamilton Avenue Elementary, black and Hispanic students are passing state tests at only a slightly lower rate than in the other schools — in math, the difference is six percentage points.
但为了证明改善教育可能不像重新调整学校的种族组成一样容易，格林威治的官员指向另一个较小的差异。在新黎巴嫩小学和汉密尔顿大道小学，黑人和拉丁裔学生在州测试的通过率仅仅略低于其他学校——数学考试的差距为6个百分点。
They also say they spend $2,000 to $4,000 more per student in those schools, in addition to any federal aid given to schools with high-needs populations. This is evidence, they say, that the district has tried to address head-on the core concerns behind the state law — that segregated schools do not provide for their lowest performing students.
他们还称，除了所有联邦补贴外，辖区还给那些需要补贴学生数量多的学校提供每人2000至4000美元的资助。他们说，这表明该地区正努力迎头解决州法律背后的核心问题，即围绕种族分离学校可能不给成绩差的学生提供资助的担忧。
“We have evolved educationally in recognizing that we must provide high-quality instruction based on individual student needs, regardless of where the school is in the district,” Dr. McKersie said. “I am not convinced that forcing students to move from their neighborhood elementary school is the best strategy for improving academic outcomes, especially in a district where students attend integrated schools from 6th through 12th grade.”
“在教育上，我们逐渐认识到，无论这个学校在辖区的哪个位置，我们都必须根据每个学生的独特需求，提供高质量的教导，”麦克西博士说。“我相信强迫学生从他们附近的小学转到别处去并不是改善学业的最好策略，尤其是在有综合性学校的区域，学生要从6年级一直读到12年级。”
The imbalance was created by a steady increase in black and Hispanic residents on the western side of town, which created another vexing problem for the district: Several schools are now in danger of becoming overcrowded.
这种失衡是由于镇西边黑人和拉丁裔居民数量的稳步增长，从而也给这一学区带来了另一个头疼的问题：一些学校面临着过度饱和的危险。
Kelly Donnelly, a spokeswoman for the Connecticut Board of Education, said the state preferred local officials to solve the racial imbalance issue. If it found a remedial plan was insufficient, she said, the state could order the district to redraft it, and if it was still lacking, the matter could end up in court.
康涅狄格教育委员会(Connecticut Board of Education)发言人凯莉·唐纳利(Kelly Donnelly)说，州里希望让当地官员去解决当地的种族失衡问题。如果发现矫正措施作用不大，州里可以命令该区重新修订措施，如果仍不见效果，得通过法律途径解决，她说。
Amid the civil rights movement of the 1960s, a number of states developed policies or enacted laws on racial integration in the schools, including California, Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania, said Gary Orfield, a professor of education and law at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is a director of the university’s Civil Rights Project.
加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)教育和法律学教授兼该大学民权项目(Civil Rights Project)主任加里·奥菲尔德(Gary Orfield)说，19世纪60年代，在民权运动背景下，一些州就学校种族一体化制定政策或颁布法律，这些州包括加利福尼亚、康涅狄格，伊利诺斯、马萨诸塞、明尼苏达、新泽西和宾夕法尼亚。
Since then, he said, many of the desegregation policies have been “repealed or interpreted away, or died of little use.”
他说，从那时起，许多废止种族分离的政策慢慢被“撤销或淡化，或者因为没用而消亡了”。
In Boston, it was a federal civil rights lawsuit, not a state law, that led to busing, and the resulting widespread protests and white flight from the public school system.
在波士顿，是一起联邦民权诉讼案而不是州法引起了公车事件，导致大范围的抗议以及白种人从公共学校系统的大逃离。
Susie Ponce, whose parents are from Colombia, moved to western Greenwich from Queens in 2007. She thinks Hamilton Avenue Elementary, which her two children attend, could have more white children, she said, but it has an array of nationalities.
父母来自哥伦比亚的苏西·宠塞(Susie Ponce)，在2007年从皇后区搬到了格林威治西边。她说，她以为她两个孩子上的汉密尔顿大道小学里白人孩子会多一些，可是那里有大量不同国籍的人。
“If I had a choice, I would keep my kids where they are right now,” said Ms. Ponce, who until recently was the school’s parent coordinator. “Because not only are they getting a great education, they are getting the social-emotional intelligence that I grew up with, just being exposed to other children from different cultures.”
“如果我可以选择，我会让孩子们去附近的学校上学，”最近成为学校家长协调员的宠塞说。“不仅是因为他们能得到很好的教育，而且他们也能获得这样的社会和情感认知：我是和来自不同文化的其他孩子们一起长大的。”
Still, Jennifer Roberto, 15, said that had Hamilton Avenue Elementary been more integrated when she went there, her high school experience might not now include a lunchroom demarcated in unofficial zones: light-skinned faces here, dark ones over there.
不过，15岁的詹尼弗·罗伯托(Jennifer Roberto)说，如果汉密尔顿大道小学在她去的时候能更融合一些，她现在的高中经历可能不会包括，学校午餐厅被非正式地划分成不同的区域，白人们在这边，黑人们在那边。
“If they change the groups at kindergarten and everything, if they start mixing it, it will be more diverse later,” Jennifer said. “Cliques wouldn’t even form.”
“如果他们能在幼儿园和其他所有方面都改变分组，如果他们开始融合不同种族，以后将会变得更多样性，”詹尼弗说。“根本不会形成派系了”。
Adriana Ospina, the lone Hispanic member of the Greenwich Board of Education, said, “You hear some of the kids being referred to as ‘the ghetto kids,’ and that is horrendous.”
格林威治教育委员会里唯一的西班牙裔成员阿德里亚娜·奥斯皮纳(Adriana Ospina)说：“当你听到有人称一些孩子们为‘贫民窟小孩’时，这太恐怖了。”
But even parents and local officials who think Greenwich needs to try harder to integrate its schools are wary of forcing students to travel across town.
但即使是认为格林威治需要更努力融合这些学校的家长和当地官员也不敢轻易强迫学生们到镇的另一边去上学。
Ms. Ospina said she was hoping that voluntary measures, like increased used of magnet schools, could solve the problem. She said it was not fair to tell a parent of an elementary school student on the eastern side of town that her child “no longer has the right, or privilege, to a neighborhood school.”
奥斯皮纳女士说，她希望那些自发的措施，比如增开磁石学校，能解决这个问题。她说，让镇东小学生的家长去跟她孩子说“你没权利、没特权去上附近的学校了”，这不公平。
That is the stated view of virtually all parents, almost all of them from schools in the northern and eastern parts of town, who have spoken at the district’s public meetings on the issue.
这基本上是在区里公共会议上就这一问题发言的所有家长所陈述的观点，他们所有人几乎都来自镇北镇东。
Lori Fields, whose daughter just completed kindergarten at Parkway Elementary, a school in the backcountry, in far-northern Greenwich (with a 17 percent minority enrollment this spring), said the school was a large reason she bought her home eight years ago, when she was moving from California.
洛莉·费尔兹(Lori Fields)的女儿刚在帕克威小学(Parkway Elementary)读完幼儿园（今年春季招收的学生有17%来自少数种族），学校很偏，在格林威治北边很远的地方。她说8年前她从加利福尼亚搬到这儿来买房安家的主要原因是这所学校。
At a June 14 hearing she said, “I don’t support any option that would force children out of their neighborhood schools.”
在7月14日的听证会上她说：“我不赞成任何强迫孩子们离开自己附近学校的做法。”
At the hearing, Benjamin D. Bianco, a lawyer and father of a student at North Street Elementary School (29 percent minority enrollment), in the center of town, said he saw the state’s racial balance mandate as open to challenge as violating the equal protection clause of the Constitution, an idea the district has also said it is considering.
律师本杰明·比安科(Benjamin D. Bianco)的孩子就读于镇中心的北街小学（North Street Elementary School，29%的学生来自少数种族）。在听证会上，他说他认为康涅狄格州的种族平衡令是可挑战的，它违反了美国宪法的平等保护条款，区里也表示在考虑这一想法。
“We all bought our homes based on what school our kids were going to go to,” Mr. Bianco said. “If you talk to any Realtor, I’m sure in this town, but probably in any town across America, when they give you the listing for homes you have price, square footage, school district. I mean, it’s not a complicated concept.”
比安科说：“如果你跟任何一个房屋经纪谈，当他给你列房屋的价格、面积和学区时，我们买房子都是基于孩子要去什么学校而决定的。我肯定在这个镇上是这样，而且很可能在全美国的所有镇上都是如此。我的意思是，这个问题并不复杂。”