SEOUL, South Korea — As president of South Korea, Park Geun-hye never appeared in public until stylists had arranged her hair in the trademark updo of her mother, a popular first lady who was killed by an assassin in 1974.
韩国首尔——作为韩国总统，朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)出现在公众场合之前，总是会让造型师把她的头发盘在脑后，那是她母亲的标志发型。她母亲是一位受人爱戴的第一夫人，在1974年遇刺身亡。
On Friday, Ms. Park was required to remove the hairpins she uses to maintain that style before entering the jail where she now resides. Inmates at the Seoul Detention Center cannot have metal hairpins, because they could use them to hurt themselves, officials said.
周五，朴槿惠在进入她现在待的监狱之前，被要求取下她用来保持这种发型的发夹。官员说，首尔羁押中心(Seoul Detention Center)的囚犯不允许使用金属发夹，以防用其自残。
“When she wakes up in the morning and realizes that she can’t do her hair anymore, she will be faced with the stark new reality,” Lee Yong-ju, a former prosecutor who is now an opposition lawmaker, said in a radio interview on Thursday.
“她早晨醒来，意识到再也不能做头发时，她会面对严峻的新的现实。”反对派议员、前检察官李永柱（Lee Yong-Ju，音译）周四接受广播电台的采访时说。
Ms. Park, who was jailed before dawn Friday on charges stemming from the corruption scandal that ended her presidency three weeks ago, now lives alone in a cell, eating $1.30 meals, washing her own tray and sleeping on a foldable mattress on the floor. It is a stark comedown for someone who spent more years living at the Blue House, South Korea’s sprawling presidential palace, than anyone else — first as daughter of the long-ruling dictator Park Chung-hee, and later for four years as president herself.
由于腐败丑闻，朴槿惠于周五黎明前收监，这起丑闻已经在三周前结束了她的总统生涯。现在她住在单人牢房里，吃每餐1.3美元的伙食，自己洗托盘，睡在地板上的折叠床垫上。对朴槿惠来说，这个落差非常巨大，她在占地广阔的韩国总统府青瓦台生活的时间，比任何人都要长——先是作为长期执政的独裁者朴正熙的女儿，后来又作为总统在那里住了四年。
If convicted of the charges on which she was arrested Friday, including bribery, Ms. Park would face between 10 years and life in prison.
周五，朴槿惠因包括贿赂在内的指控被捕，如果罪名成立，她将面临十年甚至终身监禁。
Because of her father, many South Koreans long derided Ms. Park as a princess. She was known to be fastidious; when she once visited the port city of Incheon as president, officials had to install a new toilet specifically for her, according to a former mayor of the city.
因为其父的缘故，一直以来，很多韩国人嘲笑朴槿惠是个公主。她的挑剔出了名，据港口城市仁川的市长说，她之前作为总统访问那里时，官员们不得不为她专门安装一个新马桶。
Many South Koreans stayed up late to watch the live coverage of prosecutors escorting Ms. Park to the detention center in Uiwang, south of Seoul. She was the most prominent inmate to arrive at the center since at least 1995, when Roh Tae-woo, a former military dictator, was detained there.
有很多韩国人熬夜观看检察官护送朴槿去羁押中心的直播，该中心位于首尔以南的义王市(Uiwang)。她是1995年后被关在那里最著名的囚犯，之前，韩国前军事独裁者卢泰愚(Roh Tae-woo)曾关押在那里。
Hundreds of her supporters chanted “Park Geun-hye, our president!” as her motorcade pulled in. But others celebrated her arrival. “It’s time to pay dearly for what you have done!” one woman shouted as Ms. Park’s car passed through the steel gate.
她的车队抵达时，数以百计的支持者反复喊着“朴槿惠，我们的总统”。但另外一些人则庆祝她的到来。“报应的时候到了”，一个女人在朴槿惠的车穿过钢门的时候喊道。
At the gate, Ms. Park’s government-provided bodyguards, the only official privilege she still enjoyed, turned around. Since her formal removal from office on March 10 by the Constitutional Court, she had lost most of the other perks provided to an ex-president, like an office, a personal staff and a pension. The court unanimously upheld the National Assembly’s vote in December to impeach her, on charges that included abusing her power to help a longtime confidante, Choi Soon-sil, extort tens of millions of dollars from businesses.
在门口，朴槿惠的保镖转过身，那是她唯一仍可享受的官方特权。自从宪法法院3月10日正式弹劾她之后，朴槿惠已经失去了身为前总统的大部分待遇，比如一间办公室、一名侍从和养老金。法庭一致支持国民议会在12月份的弹劾投票，她的罪名包括滥用权力帮助长期密友崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)向企业勒索数以千万计的美元。
Once inside the detention center, ringed by a high wall interspersed with watchtowers, Ms. Park changed into a pea-green jumpsuit required for all inmates and was assigned an inmate number, according to jail officials who briefed reporters on procedures at the center. Her photograph was taken, she underwent a quick medical checkup, and she was taken to a solitary cell, of a kind used to hold prominent politicians and business tycoons, to ensure their safety. Most inmates are held in 129-square-foot cells, with six inmates to each cell.
带有瞭望台的高墙环绕着这个羁押中心，监狱官员向记者介绍了该中心的收监流程：朴槿惠进入这里后，就要换上所有囚犯都得穿的豌豆绿连身衣，并被分派一个囚犯号码。中心先给她拍照，然后快速做一个体检，之后将她被带到一个单人牢房，关押知名政客和商业大亨通常关在这样的牢房里，以保证他们的安全。大多数囚犯住的是129平方英尺（约合12平方米）的牢房，每间牢房住六名囚犯。
Detention center officials would not reveal the size of Ms. Park’s cell but said the usual solitary cell was 71 square feet. They added that Mr. Roh, the former president, had been allowed a larger cell, of 118 square feet, and his own shower. Most inmates are allowed to use communal bathing facilities twice a week.
羁押中心的官员不愿透露朴槿惠所住牢房的大小，但表示通常的单人牢房是71平方英尺（约合7平方米）。他们还说，前总统卢泰愚获许住在一个更大的牢房里，有118平方英尺（约合11平方米），自带淋浴设备。大多数囚犯允许每周使用公共洗浴设施两次。
Each cell has a TV set, a sink, a small cupboard and a reading desk that doubles as a dinner table, officials said. The TVs only show programs authorized by the Justice Ministry.
官员说，每间牢房都有一台电视机、一个盥洗池、一个小橱柜和一个阅读桌，同时兼作餐桌。电视机只播放司法部批准的节目。
There are roll calls at 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Forty-five minutes of outdoor exercise are allowed per day. Because no time limit is imposed on attorney visits, inmates wealthy enough to be unconcerned with lawyers’ fees will often take advantage of the rule to spend several hours a day in a visiting area with their attorneys, rather than alone in their cells. Ms. Park is expected to meet frequently with her lawyers to prepare for her trial.
每天上午6点和晚上8点要点名。每天有45分钟的户外运动时间。律师来访没有时间限制，有钱的囚犯往往会利用这个规则，一天中有几个小时的时间和律师待在访问区，而不是单独待在自己的牢房里。朴槿惠估计会经常在这里与律师会面，为审判作准备。
On Friday, Ms. Park would have been served bread, ketchup, cheese, soup, salad and soybean milk for breakfast, according to the jail menu for the day. Lunch was to be a bone-marrow and vegetable stew with rice, bean sprouts, kimchi and seaweed.
根据监狱周五的菜单，朴槿惠当天早餐可以吃到面包、番茄酱、奶酪、汤、沙拉和豆浆。午餐是骨头蔬菜汤配米饭、豆芽、泡菜和海带。
Each meal costs $1.30, though a limited supply of private snacks can be purchased from a jail cafeteria. The government pays for inmates’ regular meals.
每餐费用为1.30美元，但监狱食堂也提供少量的私人小吃供购买。政府为囚犯的正常三餐买单。
Ms. Park will have access to none of the stylists, personal chefs, plastic surgeons, skin-care specialists or physical therapists who used to regularly visit her at the Blue House, prosecutors said.
朴槿惠住在青瓦台时，经常有造型师、私厨、整形外科医生、护肤专家或理疗师上门服务，检察官说，她在这里无法获得这些服务。
Ms. Park knows a number of inmates at the center, including her former chief of staff and several other senior aides who have been indicted in connection with the scandal that brought her down. Also there are Ms. Choi, the friend of Ms. Park who is at the center of the scandal, and Lee Jae-yong, the de facto head of Samsung, South Korea’s largest and most powerful conglomerate, who is charged with giving $38 million in bribes to Ms. Choi and Ms. Park.
朴槿惠认识该中心的一些囚犯，包括她的前幕僚长和其他几名高级助手，他们因涉嫌令其下马的丑闻而遭起诉。朴槿惠的朋友崔顺实也关在这个中心。这里还关着韩国最大、最有实力的企业——三星公司事实上的负责人李在镕，他被指控花了3800万美元贿赂崔顺实和朴槿惠。
But prison officials said it was unlikely Ms. Park would interact with any of her former associates in jail. Male and female inmates are segregated, and inmates involved in related legal cases are kept separate.
但监狱官员表示，朴槿惠不太可能在监狱中与前任助手有任何互动。在这里，男女囚犯被隔开，卷入相关司法案件的囚犯也要隔开。
Jeong Jun-gil, a spokesman for Ms. Park’s conservative Liberty Korea Party, expressed hope Friday that she would be the country’s last former president to be jailed, even if she was not the first.
朴槿惠所在的保守的自由韩国党发言人郑俊吉（Jeong Jun-gil，音）周五表示，他希望朴槿惠是这个国家最后一名被监禁的前总统，尽管她并不是第一个。
“It’s really sad,” Mr. Jeong said. “We hope that the painful history of former presidents being arrested will not be repeated again in this country.”
“这真让人难过，”郑俊吉说。“我们希望前总统被逮捕的痛苦历史不会再在这个国家重演。”