MIAMI — A hazardous new synthetic drug originating in China is being blamed for 18 recent deaths in a single South Florida county, as police grapple with an inexpensive narcotic that causes exaggerated strength and dangerous paranoid hallucinations.
迈阿密——随着警察与让人产生有过大力气以及危险的多疑幻觉的廉价麻醉药展开斗争，一种原产于中国的危险新合成毒品被指责是最近造成佛罗里达州南部仅一个县18人死亡的罪魁祸首。
On Thursday, the Fort Lauderdale police killed a man, reportedly high on the man-made street drug, alpha-PVP, known more commonly as flakka, who had held a woman hostage with a knife to her throat.
周四，劳德代尔堡警察打死一名男子，据报道，该人在这种从街头买来的人造毒品A-PVP、俗称夫拉卡(flakka)的影响下，把刀架在一位妇女的喉咙上，把她扣为人质。
The shooting of Javoris Washington, 29, was the latest in a series of volatile episodes that the police in South Florida have faced with highly aggressive drug users. Law enforcement agencies have had difficulty tamping down a surge in synthetic drugs, which were banned after becoming popular in clubs five years ago only to re-emerge deadlier than ever under new formulations. As soon as legislation catches up with the latest craze, manufacturers design a new drug to take its place, federal and local law enforcement agencies say.
29岁的扎沃瑞斯·华盛顿(Javoris Washington)被击毙，是佛罗里达州南部警方在面对极具攻击性的吸毒者时发生的一系列恶性事件中的最新一起。执法机构在控制合成毒品激增的问题上措手不及，五年前这种合成毒品曾在俱乐部流行，之后被禁，现在毒品以新的配方重新出现，而且比过去的更致命。联邦和地方执法机构说，立法者刚禁了风行一时的毒品，制造者就设计出了更新的毒品来代替之。
In Broward County, which includes Fort Lauderdale and is considered ground zero for the new drug, there have been 18 flakka-related fatalities since September, the chief medical examiner there said.
包括劳德代尔堡在内的布劳沃德县被认为是这种新毒品的起点，县首席法医说，自从去年九月以来，当地已经发生了18起与夫拉卡有关的死亡事件。
“I have never seen such a rash of cases, all associated with the same substance,” said James N. Hall, an epidemiologist at Nova Southeastern University who has studied the Florida drug market for decades. “It’s probably the worst I have seen since the peak of crack cocaine. Rather than a drug, it’s really a poison.”
“我从未见过这样多的死亡接连发生，它们都与同一种物质有关，”诺瓦东南大学流行病学家詹姆斯·N·霍尔(James N. Hall)说，他研究佛罗里达州的毒品市场已有数十年了。“这可能是自从廉价可卡因盛行以来，我所见到的最糟糕的情况。这不是毒品，这是一种真正的毒药。”
Flakka, which got its name from a Spanish colloquial term for a pretty, enticing woman, is a synthetic cathinone that mimics the khat plant grown in Africa. It is made from alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, what Mr. Hall describes as “second-generation bath salts,” a reference to previous formulations of the amphetaminelike stimulant.
夫拉卡得名于西班牙文口语中描述漂亮诱人女性的单词，它是一种模仿产于非洲的植物阿拉伯茶的人工合成卡西酮。它的成分是2-(吡咯烷-1-基)苯基-1-戊酮(alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone)，霍尔将其描述为“第二代浴盐”，意思是，它是类苯丙胺兴奋剂先前配方的新版本。
Also known as gravel, flakka made a sudden and explosive entrance into South Florida’s illicit drug market about six months ago, particularly in poor neighborhoods, where drug users including homeless people were lured by the low price, $5 a dose.
夫拉卡又称“砾石”，大约在半年前突然大量涌入佛罗里达州南部的非法毒品市场，尤其是在贫困的社区，那里的吸毒者包括无家可归的人，他们被这种毒品每剂5美元的低价所吸引。
Police departments around the state, and especially those near Fort Lauderdale, have been called to a growing number of situations involving people high on the drug who were convinced that packs of dogs or people were chasing them.
全州的警察部门，特别是那些靠近劳德代尔堡的，都在处理越来越多的吸毒事件，所涉及的吸毒者深信他们被一群狗或人追逐着。
In February, a 50-year-old homeless man tried to kick in the glass door at the Fort Lauderdale Police Department because he believed people were chasing him. In Melbourne this month, a 17-year-old girl ran down the street naked and covered in blood, screaming that she was Satan.
今年二月，一名50岁的无家可归男子试图将劳德代尔堡警察局的玻璃门踢开，因为他认为人们在追逐他。本月在佛罗里达的墨尔本，一名17岁的女孩全身赤裸、满身带血地跑上街头，尖叫她是撒旦。
In Broward County, a man ran down a street wearing only sneakers, saying a pack of German shepherds was hunting him. Another person became impaled on a fence.
在布劳沃德县，一名男子只穿着运动鞋跑上街头，声称一群德国牧羊犬在追他。另一名吸毒者被尖尖的围栏刺穿。
“Police departments are always calling us for backup, because they try not to apprehend somebody on synthetic drugs by themselves,” said Mia Ro, a spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Administration’s Miami division.
“警察部门一直在给我们打电话要求增援，因为他们不想自己单独去逮捕那些服用了合成毒品的人，”美国缉毒局迈阿密分局的女发言人米娅·罗(Mia Ro)说。
At first, the products known as bath salts were available in gas stations. When specific chemical substances were banned in Europe and the United States, chemists tweaked the formula, and flakka emerged.
最初，被称为浴盐的产品在加油站就能买到。某些化学物质在欧洲和美国被禁止之后，化学家调整了分子式，造出了夫拉卡。
Five major synthetic cathinones were banned federally and by most states in 2010. Flakka is illegal in the United States, and law enforcement authorities are working with officials in China for it to be outlawed there as well.
联邦政府和大多数州在2010年禁止了五大类合成卡西酮。夫拉卡在美国是非法的，执法部门正与中国官员进行工作，让中国也禁止这种化合物。
“Our supposition is that the original concept was to design it so it would be technically not illegal,” Mr. Hall said. “It appears they are now looking to also design the molecule to be even more potent and more addictive. Addiction is good for sales.”
“我们的假设是，最初的想法是通过改变分子设计，让它在技术上不违法，”霍尔说。“看来，他们目前在寻找让分子具有更强效力、更容易上瘾的设计。上瘾就卖得好。”
But the law has not stopped its flow, Mr. Hall said.
但是，霍尔说，法律没能停止毒品的流通。
Broward County’s chief medical examiner, Dr. Craig Mallak, said the drug manufacturers added a ketone, an oxygen atom that affects more receptors in the brain.
布劳沃德县首席法医克雷格·马拉克(Craig Mallak)博士说，毒品制造者添加了一个酮体，既一个影响大脑中更多受体的氧原子。
The drug works by blocking the reuptake function of transmitting neurons, allowing a storm of dopamine and serotonin to flood the brain, Dr. Mallak said.
马拉克说，该毒品通过阻断传递神经元的再吸收功能，让多巴胺和血清素的大量释放充斥大脑。
Flakka comes in the form of crystals of different colors that dissolve in the mouth, and the drug is also smoked and can be used for “vaping” in e-cigarette-like devices. The body temperature of users who take too much can rise above 105 degrees, resulting in excited delirium. Users can feel so hot that they may strip off their clothes. Some have suffered kidney failure and cognitive impairment.
夫拉卡以不同颜色的晶体形式存在，能溶于口中，这种毒品也可当烟吸，可用类似电子香烟的设备“挥发吸入”。过量使用这种毒品的人，体温可超过40.5摄氏度，导致兴奋的神志失常。吸毒者可能感到如此之热，以至于他们也许会脱光自己的衣服。有些人遭受了肾功能衰竭和认知功能障碍的损伤。