Doctors, social agencies and community groups that have long been frustrated by the inability to alleviate environmental conditions that contribute to ailments like heart disease and obesity are promoting the idea that a shift in land-use planning and design can stanch some of the harmful influences.
一直以来，医生、社会机构和社区团体因无力改善诱发心脏病和肥胖症等疾病的环境因素而备感挫败，而今他们正在宣传一种理念：改变土地使用规划和设计可以消除部分有害影响。
The concept is being put to one of its earliest and biggest tests in the La Alma/Lincoln Park neighborhood near downtown Denver. That’s where the city’s housing authority used a relatively new decision-making tool known as a health impact assessment to draft a redevelopment plan that encourages physical activity and environmental sustainability.
丹佛市中心附近的拉阿尔玛/林肯公园(La Alma/Lincoln Park)小区是最早试行该理念的社区之一，规模也最大。在那里，市住房管理部门采用一种相对较新、被称为健康影响评估的决策工具来拟订再开发计划，计划的目标是促进居民参加体育活动，同时确保环境可持续性。
To that end, the redevelopment of buildings in the 17-acre project, known as Mariposa, will incorporate ecologically advanced construction materials and practices, and a combination of geothermal and solar power will generate up to 60 percent of the development’s energy.
再次开发的建筑项目占地17英亩、名为马里波萨(Mariposa)，为实现这一目标，开发者将采用先进的生态建筑材料和工艺，并融入地热和太阳能——两者会为该小区提供高达60%的能源供应。
Residents will also find naturally lighted and centrally located staircases enticing them away from the elevators, as well as neighborhood gardens to encourage a better diet.
居民还将会在小区中心位置看到采光良好的楼梯，这可以诱导他们远离电梯，而小区里的菜园也会促使他们追求更好的饮食习惯。
“As we talked to residents, we began to learn from their perspective that having new housing would be great, but that it alone wouldn’t improve their quality of life or create a path to success or sustainability for them,” said Ismael Guerrero, executive director of the Denver Housing Authority. “So we came at this from the point of view of, How are we going to transform this neighborhood into a healthy, vibrant community?”
“在与居民交流时，我们开始了解到他们的想法：拥有新房子当然很棒，但光给他们房子并不能提升生活质量，也不可能开创一条成功或可持续的路径，”丹佛住房管理局(Denver Housing Authority)执行主任伊斯梅尔·格雷罗(Ismael Guerrero)说，“所以，我们的出发点是，如何才能将这里改造成一个健康、充满活力的社区？”
Advocates of health impact assessments hope that Mariposa will convince more developers to use the tool, which examines environmental, economic and social influences on health.
健康影响评估的支持者希望马里波萨项目将来能够说服更多开发商使用该工具，来检测环境、经济和社会因素对健康的影响。
While communities and other organization have conducted these types of assessments in road construction, energy developments and other projects, the studies are also ideally suited to guide transit-oriented developments, infrastructure improvements and urban redevelopment in low-income neighborhoods.
社区和其他组织在道路建设、能源开发和其他项目中已经开展了该类型的评估，评估也非常适于用来指导低收入社区以公交为导向的开发、基础设施提升和城市改建。
Health impact assessments have been a mainstay in Europe and other countries for several years, but proponents say they did not appear in the United States until 1999. Now some 200 of these assessments have been completed or are under way here, up from 50 four years ago, said Dr. Aaron Wernham, project director for the Health Impact Project, a collaboration of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and Pew Charitable Trusts that helps finance health impact assessments.
早在多年前，健康影响评估就已成为欧洲和其他国家的主流评估工具，但倡议人士说，美国直至1999年才引入了这种评估工具。健康影响项目(Health Impact Project)是由罗伯特·伍德·约翰逊基金会(Robert Wood Johnson Foundation)和皮尤慈善信托基金(Pew Charitable Trusts)共同发起的一个协作项目，旨在为健康影响评估提供资助，项目负责人亚伦·韦恩哈姆(Aaron Wernham)表示，目前美国已制定的或正在制定的类似评估工具有约200种，而4年前仅有50种。
“People in the public health world and in the business and development world are waking up to the need to get at health care problems and bring down health care costs,” he said. “So we see a fair amount of uptake in certain sectors — the health impact assessment is out there and growing.”
“公共卫生界和商业及房地产开发领域的人士已经认识到解决医疗保健问题和降低医疗保健成本的必要性，”他说，“所以，我们在一些特定领域看到了大量采用健康影响评估的情况，而这也导致了这类工具的增加。”
A typical assessment comprises six steps that primarily identify a project’s potential health impacts and ways to mitigate them. Community interaction is crucial to the process. In 2009, Mariposa’s assessment by Mithun, an architectural firm, and other organizations, included more than 140 community meetings, held 12 steering committee meetings, and received more than 550 comments.
典型的评估包含六个步骤，主要是明确一个项目潜在的健康影响和减缓这些影响的方式。在这个过程中，社区互动至关重要。2009年，米森(Mithun)建筑设计公司和其他组织对马里波萨项目进行评估，期间开了超过140次的社区会议、12次指导委员会会议，收到了超过550份反馈意见。
Erin Christensen, an associate principal at Mithun, points to a nine-year-old affordable housing project in Seattle that already can show a link between design and health. The community suffered from a high rate of asthma, and working with the Seattle Housing Authority and others, Mithun called on medical research to create about 60 “Breathe Easy Homes.” The homes feature hard floors instead of carpeting, high efficiency air filters and low-allergen landscaping, among other elements aimed at reducing asthma triggers.
米森公司的项目运营经理埃琳·克里斯滕森(Erin Christensen)指出，九年前西雅图的一个保障性住房项目就已经证明了设计与健康之间的联系。这个小区居民的哮喘发病率非常高，米森公司通过西雅图住房管理局(Seattle Housing Authority)和其他机构合作，查找医学文献，搭建了约60套“轻松呼吸居所”(Breathe Easy Homes)。这些住房采用了一系列旨在减少哮喘诱发因素的设计元素，包括用硬木地板取代地毯，安装高效空气过滤器，采用低过敏原绿化材料。
A study in 2010 performed by the University of Washington School of Public Health found that the Breathe Easy residents had reduced emergency room and urgent care visits by 67 percent and that symptom-free days had increased by 61 percent.
华盛顿大学公共卫生学院(University of Washington School of Public Health)在2010年进行的一项研究表明，“轻松呼吸居所”的住户看急诊和需要紧急护理的次数降低了67%，无症状日则增加了61%。
“As designers, that was the first time that we had really seen a direct relationship shown between the built environment and the health of residents,” Ms. Christensen said.
“作为设计者，这是我们第一次真正看到建筑环境和居民健康之间所展现出来的直接联系，”克里斯滕森女士说。
Working on Mariposa gave Mithun the opportunity to take a more “comprehensive and holistic” approach by integrating a health impact assessment into the design process for the first time, she added.
克里斯滕森补充说，马里波萨项目为米森公司提供了一个机会，得以采用一种“更全面和更综合的”方法，首次将健康影响评估融入到设计程序中。
Among other issues, Mariposa’s assessment found that more than 55 percent of the neighborhood’s predominantly Latino residents were overweight, about 75 percent had high blood pressure or were borderline, and nearly 40 percent had a condition that prevented them from working.
马里波萨项目的评估发现了诸多问题，其中一点是：在小区人口占多数的拉丁裔居民中，超过55%的人超重，大约75%的人有高血压或临界高血压，近40%的人因为身体情况无法工作。
Mr. Guerrero said the plan for Mariposa is largely geared toward attracting private investment to the neighborhood, which is one of the city’s oldest, nestled near a light rail station, a higher education campus and the popular Art District on Santa Fe.
格雷罗说，马里波萨项目计划以吸引私人投资为主。这是丹佛市最老的小区之一，紧挨着轻轨站、大学校园和广受欢迎的圣达菲艺术区。
To accomplish that, the authority is replacing 250 affordable housing units with 800 mixed-income rental and for-sale units slated for completion in 2018. It has constructed 100 units of senior housing, and this year it plans to complete another 190 units that will be a mix of affordable, work force and market-rate rental apartments, and town homes.
为实现这一目标，当局已经开始动工，准备用800套混合收入阶层租售住房取代先前的250套保障性住房，计划于2018年竣工。它已经建造了100套老年人住房，今年还计划建成另外190套各类型房屋，包括保障性住房、廉住房、基于市场价的租赁房和联排别墅等。
The average income in the neighborhood is around $11,000 a year, Mr. Guerrero said, and he hopes that the project will attract people earning $30,000 to $100,000 annually.
格雷罗说，小区居民的平均年收入约为1.1万美元，他希望这个项目能够吸引年收入为3万-10万美元的人前来入住。
To date, the notion that living and economic conditions can influence health has mostly dominated public project and policy decisions. Private developers are probably not very familiar with health impact assessments, said Patrick L. Phillips, the chief executive of the Urban Land Institute. But that’s about to change, he predicted. The institute is about six months away from introducing a major initiative focusing on ways to improve health through the built environment. “What has struck us is how quickly these assessments have emerged as a public concern sufficient to be incorporated within the traditional land-use decision-making regulatory framework,” Mr. Phillips said.
到目前为止，“生活和经济环境会影响健康”的理念主要体现在公共项目和政策决策上。城市土地学会(Urban Land Institute)的执行长帕特里克·L·菲利普斯(Patrick L. Phillips)说，私人开发商可能不是很熟悉健康影响评估。但他预言这种情况会改变。大概六个月后，该学会将推出一项重要倡议，所关注的正是通过建筑环境提升健康的方式。“让我们感到吃惊的是，在如此短暂的时间里，响应公众顾虑而出现的健康影响评估就融入到了传统的土地使用决策监管框架中，”菲利普斯说。
Still, a push to widen the use of health impact assessments in real estate developments could run into obstacles.
不过，健康影响评估在房地产开发中的进一步推广可能会遇到障碍。
Right now assessments are largely voluntary, though some federal and state lawmakers have made efforts to mandate them, said Jonathan Heller, co-founder of Human Impact Partners, an Oakland, Calif., company that conducts health impact assessments and trains others to perform them.
健康影响合作(Human Impact Partners)公司的联合创始人乔纳森·海勒(Jonathan Heller)说，虽然有些联邦议员和州议员在努力推动相关事宜，但目前的评估主要还是自愿性质的。这家公司位于加州奥克兰市，主营业务是实施健康影响评估及从业人员培训。
Mr. Heller and other assessment advocates anticipate that private developers will see the tool simply as a cost-adding measure or a way for community activists to stall or stop proposed projects.
海勒和其他评估支持人士预计，私人开发商会以为健康评估工具纯粹会导致成本增加，或者觉得它是社区活动人士用来妨碍或阻止开发项目进行的手段。
But Douglas R. Bigley, the chief executive of Urban Housing Communities, a developer based in Santa Ana, Calif, has embraced the assessments. In addition to building affordable housing, the commercial developer also tries to provide services that a neighborhood lacks. He said that the collaborative nature of health impact assessments can reveal information that would alter building and design plans. If an assessment showed that residents lack access to health care, for example, Urban Housing might create a community room designed to accommodate occasional visits from mobile clinics.
不过，房地产开发商城市住房社区(Urban Housing Communities)公司执行长道格拉斯·R·比格利(Douglas R. Bigley)对这类评估持欢迎态度。除建造保障性住房外，这家位于加州圣安娜市的商业地产商还为社区提供其所匮乏的服务。他说，健康影响评估本质上需要各方协作，这将有助于披露信息，改变建筑和设计方案。比如说，评估显示居民缺乏医疗保健渠道，那么公司可能就会建造一个社区医疗室，专为流动诊所临时来访时使用。
“We use the health impact assessments to reach out to the community to figure out what the surroundings really look like,” Mr. Bigley said. “The more issues we’re aware of, the more we can do to sculpt a development to meet the needs of the neighborhood.”
“我们利用健康影响评估与社区建立联系，进而了解周边环境的真实情况，”比格利说，“我们发现的问题越多，开发的项目就越能满足社区的要求。”