Rezo Gabriadze’s puppet theater stands in the heart of Tbilisi’s Old Town, which is very old indeed. Around the corner are the sulfur baths, where, according to legend, Georgian King Vakhtang I decided to build the city in the fifth century. Up the street is the great Sioni Cathedral from the seventh century.
伦佐·加布里亚泽(Rezo Gabriadze)的木偶剧院，坐落于第比利斯（Tbilisi，格鲁吉亚首都——译注）旧城区的中心地带，无疑是一座历史悠久的建筑。转角处有几家硫磺矿浴场，根据古老的传说，那正是15世纪的格鲁吉亚国王瓦赫坦格一世(Vakhtang I)决定建造都城的地方。街道北面，耸立着西奥尼大教堂(Sioni Cathedral)，是一处始建于17世纪的建筑。
Gabriadze himself is a Georgian national treasure. I saw his marionette version of the Battle of Stalingrad when I first came to Tbilisi 10 years ago and fell in love with the city. I was ushered into a dank, run-down basement, where I watched, enthralled, as Gabriadze’s tiny puppet tanks advanced to the rousing strains of Shostakovich. It was unforgettable.
加布里亚泽本人是格鲁吉亚的国宝级人物。十年前我第一次来到第比利斯时，观看了他的提线木偶版《斯大林格勒战役》(Battle of Stalingrad)，看完之后，立刻喜欢上了这座城市。当时我被剧场接待员领进一间潮湿而破败的地下室，目瞪口呆地看着加布里亚泽的道具坦克伴随着肖斯塔科维奇（Shostakovich，苏联作曲家——译注）创作的热血沸腾的旋律向前冲锋。那着实是一次难忘的经历。
The theater was a dump, but then, so was the rest of the city. The old buildings were missing many of the elegant narrow bricks first introduced there by the Byzantines. The covered balconies with their delicate latticework, a gift of the Ottomans, were listing and rotting. There was litter everywhere. An apartment’s garbage disposal was often its front window.
那座剧院形同一处垃圾场。不过那时候，第比利斯的其他地方也一样。古老建筑的表面有许多雅致的窄砖已经剥落，那还是拜占庭人首先引进的工艺。而配有精巧格状装饰的封闭式阳台，那是奥斯曼人的天才手艺，也正风雨飘摇，行将腐蚀。放眼望去到处都是垃圾。一间公寓处理垃圾的办法，往往就是扔出前窗而已。
None of this made the city any less romantic or delightful. Houses still clung to the cliffs above the Kura river as they did centuries ago, looking as though they might suddenly lose their grip. A faint smell of sulfur hung over the shallow domes of the old baths, where Pushkin once ogled Georgian women bathing. From high up on the cliff, the stones of the ruined Narikala fortress gazed over the town from the fourth century, and the eighth, and the 13th, and the 17th.
所有这些，都丝毫没有减损这座城市的吸引力和浪漫风情。一座座房屋依然像几个世纪前那样，紧贴着库拉河(Kura river)畔的崖壁，仿佛随时都会突然坠落一般。一股淡淡的硫磺味笼罩在古老浴场低矮的圆顶上空。普希金(Pushkin)曾在这些浴场里与泡澡的格鲁吉亚姑娘眉来眼去。纳里卡拉要塞(Narikala fortress)高高耸立于崖顶，俯瞰着第比利斯这座始建于4世纪，又先后在8世纪、13世纪和17世纪浴火重生的城市。
History has played rough with Tbilisi for a very long time. Persians, Byzantines, Ottomans, Russians and Soviets have all had their way with her. Each has left a little of its best self there. The result is a city that Boris Pasternak called a chimera — a fanciful beast with a Western head and an Eastern body. Tbilisi has gotten even more fanciful recently. Italian architects have been busy with glass and steel, adding the sleek vernacular of modern capitalism to the city’s Babel of building styles.
在历史上，第比利斯经历了很长时间的风雨。波斯人、拜占庭人、奥斯曼人、俄罗斯人和苏联人曾先后来此进犯。每一个入侵的外族，都曾在这里留下一点荣光。由此造成的结果是，这座城市变成了苏联作家鲍里斯·帕斯捷尔纳克(Boris Pasternak)所说的“凯米拉”（Chimera在希腊语里的意思是“山羊”，羊身、狮头、蛇尾，会喷火——译注）。它就像一头奇特的野兽，拥有西方特征的头部，东方特征的身体。近年来，第比利斯的面貌甚至变得更奇特了。意大利建筑师一直忙着建造玻璃与钢铁材质的建筑，将现代资本主义特有的流线型风格添加到第比利斯混杂喧闹的建筑风格中去。
The new buildings are striking, and some are beautiful. Do they belong here among the ruins of dead empires? It turns out that question is as much political as aesthetic. Georgia’s new buildings have become pawns in a power struggle over its place in the world. Does it belong in the cosmopolitan sphere of the European architects who built them? Or should it remain somewhere lost in time, “a city as if not of this world,” as Pasternak puts it?
这些新式建筑尤为显眼，其中有些也很美观。它们是否属于这片到处都是往日帝国遗迹的土地呢？事实表明，这既是政治问题，也是美学问题。格鲁吉亚的新式建筑已成为这个国家力争在世界上立足的牺牲品。它是属于来自欧洲的设计师所带来的国际化气场；还是应该在时代潮流中渐渐被人遗忘？帕斯捷尔纳克所说的“不属于这个世界的城市”是否会一语成谶？
It is impossible not to be struck by how much the city has changed since I had last seen it, maybe four years ago. Gabriadze has a renovated theater, which opened in 2010. He designed it with the same cockeyed whimsy he puts into the puppets he makes. A crooked clock tower, encrusted with Gabriadze’s handmade tiles, sprouts a pomegranate tree from its roof. A gold-winged angel strikes the hours.
我离开第比利斯大概有四年了。与上次相比，这座城市发生了翻天覆地的改变，我几乎无法不为之震惊。加布里亚泽修缮了他的剧院，并于2010年重新开放。他把剧院设计得和自己亲手制作的木偶一样光怪陆离。他造了一座歪歪扭扭的钟楼，在上面贴上自己亲手制作的砖瓦；楼顶上还有一棵石榴树正在抽芽；整点撞钟的人偶是一个金翼天使。
The changes go well beyond the theater. The whole surrounding neighborhood, what the history books used to call Old Tiflis, looks freshly minted. The houses wear bright new paint, and their sagging balconies have somehow pulled themselves up straight. The streets are clean, or at least much cleaner, and there are scores of new cafes and restaurants.
面貌一新的远不止这座剧院。周边整个社区，也就是历史书上曾称之为“老第比利斯”的区域，如今也呈现出崭新的气象。一座座房子新刷了亮漆，原本摇摇欲坠的阳台得到加固。街道变干净了，至少比以前干净了许多。街边新开了大量的咖啡馆和餐厅。
This was the first time I’d had a chance to see the Peace Bridge over the Kura river — it opened in 2010. The Italian architect Michele De Lucchi gave the bridge a wavy glass roof lit by more than 1,200 LEDs for maximum twinkle.
这是我第一次有机会亲眼见到库拉河上的和平桥(Peace Bridge)——它是2010年开放的。意大利设计师米歇尔·德·卢基(Michele De Lucchi)给大桥设计了一个波浪形的玻璃遮阳棚，1200盏LED灯在上面交相辉映，给人以强烈的视觉冲击。
Just down from Freedom Square at the city’s heart stands a boxy block of glass shaded by huge droopy white petals on tubular stems. It’s the new Tbilisi Public Service Hall by two other Italians, Massimiliano and Doriana Fuksas, and if it seems overscaled, it’s meant to. Inside the cavernous hall, Georgians are getting married, buying new houses, paying their taxes and conducting all manner of official business with an absence of humiliation and indignity that is quite fresh here. The grandiose architecture is meant to amplify the virtues of Georgia’s kinder, gentler bureaucracy. “I’m done in five minutes, which is almost a shame because it’s so pleasant here I don’t want to leave,” one of my Georgian friends tells me.
就在自由广场(Freedom Square)以南、第比利斯的中心地带，耸立着一座四四方方的玻璃建筑。其屋顶是一片片硕大的洁白“花瓣”，它们款款垂落，由树形支柱支撑。这座玻璃建筑就是新建的第比利斯公共服务大厅(Tbilisi Public Service Hall)，出自意大利建筑设计师马西米利亚诺·福克萨斯(Massimiliano Fuksas)和多利安娜·福克萨斯(Doriana Fuksas)之手。如果你觉得它看起来规模过大，那其实是设计师有意而为之。大厅空荡荡的，格鲁吉亚民众可以在此办理结婚、买房、交税手续和各类公务，而不会受到任何羞辱和轻慢的对待，这对当地民众还是一件挺新鲜的事。“我只花了五分钟就办好了手续，我自己都觉得有点可惜，因为待在这里太舒服了，我都不想走，”我的一位格鲁吉亚朋友告诉我。
Do not expect rousing applause for any of this, however. For all their charm, Georgians can be maddeningly querulous. Tbilisi’s face-lift has gotten many of them particularly riled up. The complaints come in a variety of voices, some shrill and some shriller. The preservationists accuse the government of handing out inducements to private developers, who favored slapdash commercialism over historical authenticity in restoring Old Tbilisi. The local artist Gio Sumbadze calls it “facadism.”
不过，不要以为民众就会对此感恩戴德。格鲁吉亚人虽然魅力十足，但也极爱发牢骚。第比利斯的“整容手术”让很多人大为震怒。各种各样的抱怨接踵而至，批评的声音一个比一个尖锐。历史建筑保护主义者指责政府给予私人开发商政策鼓励，而开发商更喜欢建造草草而就的商业主义建筑，而非原原本本地重现老第比利斯风貌。当地艺术家吉奥·山姆巴德兹(Gio Sumbadze)称之为“浮华主义”。
Sumbadze does have a point. There is indeed a Ye Olde quality to some of the jazzed-up facades. But in fairness, the government needed to make some concessions to induce private developers; it could never have afforded to restore Old Tbilisi on its own. Meanwhile, the Soviets had crammed four or five families into houses built for one, and the wear and tear was dismantling the area from the inside.
山姆巴德兹的确有自己的见解。有些修缮过的门面的确具有古朴的乡村风情。不过公平地说，政府需要作出一些妥协，以鼓励私人开发商参与进来；毕竟，单凭政府的力量是无法重建老第比利斯的。而与此同时，由于在前苏联政府统治期间，原本的独户住宅里挤进了四五户人家，日常耗损正从内部瓦解这片区域。
I take a walk around the historic district with Maia Mania, a professor at Tbilisi’s State Academy of Art and one of the new Old Tbilisi’s fiercest adversaries. “Look at that!” she says, pointing a withering finger at one old building. “They took out the old bricks there and used brick cladding! And they attached a balcony there — what for?” Finally we come upon a lovely open courtyard, a characteristic feature of traditional Georgian houses. Mania finds it quite harmonious, except for “those three red things. I wish they weren’t there.” They are two women in red sweaters and a red car. “I am ill with what they have done in Old Tbilisi,” she says, looking genuinely ill. “If they had done a real restoration on 10 houses, I would be silent.”
我和迈厄·马尼亚(Maia Mania)在这片历史街区逛了逛。马尼亚是第比利斯国家美术学院(Tbilisi State Academy of Art)的教授，也是老第比利斯“整容手术”最激烈的反对者。“你看那儿！”说着，她用枯瘦的手指示意我去看一座古老的建筑，“他们把原来的砖头拆掉，换上了砖面嵌板！还装了个阳台——何必呢？”最后，我们经过一座风景宜人的开阔庭院，这是传统格鲁吉亚住房的典型特征。马尼亚觉得这一切很和谐，美中不足的是“那三个红色的家伙，真希望她们不在那儿。”她所指的是两名穿红毛衣的女子和一辆红色汽车。“看到她们在老第比利斯做的事情，我就恶心得想吐。”她说，脸上真的浮现出想吐的神情。“如果她们真的实实在在重建十所房子，那我就什么也不说了。”
More than a few Tbilisians find the new buildings incongruous and jarring, and sometimes just plain bad. The Peace Bridge, a source of much raillery, is nicknamed the Always Ultra Bridge for its resemblance to a feminine napkin. “I think the new buildings would be marvelous, but maybe someplace far away, like in the suburbs,” says Nino Sukhishvili, who, along with her brother, runs the Georgian National Ballet founded by her grandparents.
不少第比利斯人认为，新的建筑与周围的环境格格不入，有些建筑根本就没法看。他们经常拿和平桥打趣，戏称它为“总是超量的桥”(Always Ultra Bridge)，因为它看起来像一片卫生巾。“我认为，新式建筑是会很气派，但最好离这里远远的，比如建在郊区。”尼诺·苏希什维利(Nino Sukhishvili)表示。苏希什维利和她的兄弟一起经营着祖父母创立的格鲁吉亚国家芭蕾舞团(Georgian National Ballet)。
No local animus quite matches that of Bidzina Ivanishvili, the quirky billionaire who entered public life expressly to topple former President Mikheil Saakashvili, the man behind Tbilisi’s architectural revival. Ivanishvili, now Georgia’s prime minister, has made no secret of his disdain for Tbilisi’s new buildings, sucking them into a wider Kulturkampf over Georgia’s identity. He has called them a waste and an eyesore.
要说对新式建筑敌意最深的人，恐怕要属毕齐纳·伊万尼什维利(Bidzina Ivanishvili)了。这名一夜暴富的亿万富豪在登上政治舞台之初，就对格鲁吉亚的前总统米哈伊尔·萨卡什维利(Bidzina Ivanishvili)表示了公开反对，后者正是第比利斯建筑复兴的幕后推手。伊万尼什维利如今已担任格鲁吉亚总理之职，他毫不掩饰自己对第比利斯城内新式建筑的鄙夷，将它们上纲上线到事关格鲁吉亚身份认同的文化争端中去，还将它们称为“废物”和“眼中钉”。
Saakashvili was swept into power by the Rose Revolution in 2003. He was young and dashing, and so were the good-looking men and women who joined his government. They enjoyed overwhelming popularity and good will. Like Russia’s Peter the Great, Saakashvili set out to usher in a golden age of Western-leaning modernity, using Italian architects to fashion the iconography.
萨卡什维利在2003年的“玫瑰革命”(Rose Revolution)中上台，年轻而充满锐气。加盟萨卡什维利政府的那些帅气的男职员和美貌的女职员也是如此。他们有压倒性的人气和善意。像俄国的彼得大帝(Peter the Great)一样，萨卡什维利决定向西方学习，将格鲁吉亚带向现代化的黄金时代。于是，他任用意大利建筑师，意图使首都的面貌新潮起来。
The goal was a worthy one for a country mired in post-Soviet poverty and corruption. The problem was that Saakashvili pursued it more like a czar than an elected president. Dissent was ignored or overridden, sometimes brutally, and the Rose Revolution withered under his harsh care. By October 2012, Georgia had finally had enough, and booted out Saakashvili’s United National Movement at the polls. (His own term as president ended in October 2013.)
对于一个在后苏联时代深陷贫困与腐败泥沼的国家来说，这样的目标是有意义的。问题是，萨卡什维利的做派更像一个独裁者，而非民选的总统。反对意见要么被忽视，要么被推翻，有时采取的方式还很残忍。结果，“玫瑰革命”在他粗暴的统治下凋零了。2012年10月，格鲁吉亚人终于忍无可忍，在选举中将萨卡什维利领导的统一民族运动党(United National Movement)赶下了台（萨卡什维利本人的总统任期也在2013年10月结束）。
Ivanishvili has been the opposite of gracious in victory. He often seems driven more by an implacable hatred of Saakashvili and all his works than by any particular vision of his own. He has brought various charges against more than 100 United National Movement politicians, and even put some of them behind bars while they awaited trial. And he has effectively stamped out any architectural renaissance in Tbilisi, old and new.
而在选举中获胜的伊万尼什维利，也从不是什么友善的角色。他做事的动机与其说是出于自己的意志，还不如说是出于对萨卡什维利及其所有政绩的无比仇视。他以各种各样的罪名控告了一百多名统一民族运动党的政客，有些人甚至还在候审期间就被他关进了监狱。他还强力扑灭了第比利斯建筑复兴进程中的一切项目，新式建筑和历史建筑概莫能外。
On the riverbank across from the Old Town, bulldozers sit idle on the site of a controversial music theater and exhibition hall, also designed by the Fuksases. It was to be housed in a pair of massive pipes that now lie there like two Ozymandian legs of steel. Most people I spoke to never liked them anyway, and they do look ungainly and strange where they are.
在老城区的河对岸，一台推土机正停在一处工地上，这里要建的是一座音乐剧院和展览馆。这项工程备受争议，设计师依然是福克萨斯夫妇。本来，建筑的两端要分别设一根巨大的管子。而如今这两根管子就撂在地上，像奥西曼提斯(Ozymandian)的两条钢腿（此处典故出自雪莱的诗。奥西曼提斯即公元前十三世纪的埃及王雷米西斯二世——译注）。我采访的大多数人都不喜欢它们，而且它们放在那里确实显得丑陋怪异。
But that’s not the point, or at least it wasn’t Ivanishvili’s point when the theater’s Georgian developer was detained last November on suspicion of receiving illegal funds. Shortly after, Tbilisi’s mayor, Gigi Ugulava, released a statement: “The Prime Minister sees the building of the theater as the muzzle of a cannon directed at his residence and is threatening to destroy it. There is no point arguing about tastes, but I am getting the impression that people are being detained for their taste in Georgia now.”
但这不是重点。至少，伊万尼什维利也不是出于这个原因，在去年11月以涉嫌非法集资为由拘留了剧院的格鲁吉亚开发商。这件事发生后不久，第比利斯市长吉吉·乌古拉瓦(Gigi Ugulava)就发表了一份声明称：“总理将这栋剧院看成一座掩体，他认为里面藏着一尊瞄准他寓所的加农炮，因而威胁要将其拆毁。争论品味问题是没有意义的，但这件事给我的印象是，格鲁吉亚民众正因自己的品味问题遭到拘留。”
I meet Ugulava in his office in one of Tbilisi’s new high-rises. At 38, he is one of Saakashvili’s eager young Rose Revolutionaries. He tells me: “When Ivanishvili says he wants to destroy the theater or the Peace Bridge, it has nothing to do with architecture; it has to do with his wish to get rid of everything from Saakashvili’s era. Besides, look at Ivanishvili’s own home. It was the first big modern glass building in Tbilisi.”
我在市长办公室见到了乌古拉瓦。他的办公室位于第比利斯一座新建的大厦中。乌古拉瓦现年38岁，是萨卡什维利手下一位年轻而充满干劲的“玫瑰革命派”。他告诉我：“当伊万尼什维利说他想拆毁剧院或和平桥时，其实这跟建筑本身毫无关系；他只是想把萨卡什维利时期的所有痕迹都抹去罢了。况且，你看看伊万尼什维利自己的家，那才是第比利斯最早兴建的大型现代玻璃建筑。”
You can’t miss it if you look up on the hill above Tbilisi: a $50 million futuristic thingy that looks like it’s waiting for George Jetson to land on its helipad. Ivanishvili, often described as a recluse, likes to work up there instead of in his offices in Tbilisi. The complex also houses his private zoo, not to mention artwork by Hirst and Koons down through Lucian Freud, Lichtenstein and Henry Moore (Actually, the paintings in Tbilisi are copies; Ivanishvili keeps the originals in London.) At $6 billion, Ivanishvili’s fortune, made in Russia during the rough-and-tumble days of privatization, comes to around half of Georgia’s G.D.P.
伊万尼什维利的宅邸，就坐落于第比利斯城边的高山上，只要仰望这座山峰，就不可能注意不到它的存在。那是一栋耗资5000万美元（约合人民币3亿元）的未来主义建筑，上面设有直升机停机坪，仿佛正等着乔治·杰森（George Jetson，动画片《杰森一家》的主角，斯贝斯利太空飞轮公司的电脑工程师——译注）降落一样。伊万尼什维利常被人称为隐居者。他喜欢在家工作，而不是去第比利斯市内的办公室，其豪华宅邸内还囊括了一处私人动物园，而他收藏的那些艺术品就更不用提了。他喜欢的艺术家包括新生代的达米恩·赫斯特（Damien Hirst，新一代英国艺术家的代表人物之一——译注）和杰夫·昆斯（Jeff Koons，美国艺术家，其作品往往由极其单调的东西堆砌而成，比如镜面加工过的气球兽——译注）；以及老一辈的卢西安·弗洛伊德（Lucian Freud，英国艺术家，著名心理学家西格蒙德·弗洛伊德之孙——译注）、利希滕斯坦（Lichtenstein，美国画家、雕塑家和图形艺术家——译注）、亨利·摩尔（Henry Moore，英国雕塑家，以大型铸铜雕塑和大理石雕塑而闻名——译注）（事实上，他在第比利斯的宅邸里收藏的画作都是复制品；真品都存放在了伦敦。）伊万尼什维利在俄罗斯那动荡的私有化时期大发横财，目前身家为60亿美元（约合人民币366亿元），几乎达到了格鲁吉亚国民生产总值(GDP)的一半。
Georgians know better than most people that power comes and goes. They’ve had a lot of practice recycling imperial debris. Rustaveli Avenue, Tbilisi’s main artery, is lined with the elephant skeletons of Russian and Soviet dominion. Temur Ugulava is currently transforming one of them, a gargantuan Soviet printing house from the 1970s, into two luxury hotels. He will keep all the old printing machinery, which churned out copies of Pravda in another lifetime. “Temur prefers to buy Soviet buildings,” says Natalia Kancheli, who is working with Ugulava on the project. The two of them recently converted an old Soviet hotel near Mount Kazbegi in the Caucasus mountains. “Cost was no object to the Soviets. These buildings will withstand a 9.0 earthquake.”
权力来得快，去得也快。这一点格鲁吉亚人比大多数人心里更清楚。他们已经见惯了帝国的兴衰。第比利斯的主干道鲁斯塔韦利大道(Rustaveli Avenue)两旁，鳞次栉比地排列着俄罗斯和苏联统治时期留下的庞大建筑的骨架。泰穆尔·乌古拉瓦(Temur Ugulava)正在改建其中一座建筑，那是20世纪70年代苏联统治时期建造的大印刷厂。他想将其改造成两家奢华酒店。以前这里是印刷《真理报》(Pravda)的地方，乌古拉瓦打算将所有旧机器保留下来，作为纪念。“泰穆尔喜欢买苏联时期的建筑，”娜塔莉娅·坎切利(Natalia Kancheli)说。她是乌古拉瓦在这一项目上的合作者，两人最近在高加索山脉的卡兹别吉山(Mount Kazbegi)附近改建了一座老式苏联酒店，“对于苏联人来说，成本根本不在话下。那些建筑能经受9.0级地震的考验。”
Ultimately, however, there’s a lot more at stake here than architecture. Farther down Rustaveli Avenue is the old parliament building, near where I meet Giga Bokeria, another ministerial survivor from the Rose Revolution. The parliament is a Soviet classic from 1938, with a colonnade of elongated arches rising up four soul-crushing stories. It’s no longer used. Saakashvili moved parliament to a utopian complex he had constructed in Kutaisi, three hours away, by the Spanish architect Alberto Domingo. The new parliament is a big glass egg that looks intended to support human life on an inhospitable planet.
不过，最终将经受考验的，远不止是建筑。沿着鲁斯塔韦利大道向南走，就能到达议会大厦的旧址。我在这附近见到了吉加·博克里亚(Giga Bokeria)，他是另一名从“玫瑰革命”时期幸存下来的部长级高官。老议会大厦始建于1938年，是苏联时期的古典主义建筑，设有柱廊和细长的拱门。关于这栋大厦，还有四个令人心碎的故事。目前它已被废弃不用。萨卡什维利将议会迁到了新址，位于三小时车程以外的库塔伊西（Kutaisi，格鲁吉亚中西部城市——译注），是一处乌托邦式的建筑群，由西班牙建筑师阿尔贝托·多明戈(Alberto Domingo)设计。新议会大厦的外形像一只玻璃巨蛋，其设计思路给人的感觉，就好像要在一个不适宜生存的星球上延续人类的生活。
Which, in a sense, it is. “All these new buildings were part of a package. We were trying to change the mentality of the whole apparatus,” Bokeria says. “In post-Soviet times, the government had an orgasm just finding ways to insult you. That’s what we were trying to leave behind. The core of the debate was always, What kind of country should Georgia be?”
从某种程度上讲，这么说也没错。“所有这些新式建筑都是一整套体系的一部分。我们力图改变整个国家机器给人的感觉，”博克里亚表示，“在后苏联时代，政府一直在变着法子恶心人。这是我们极力避免的。争辩的焦点总会归结于，格鲁吉亚应该成为什么样的国家？”
Lately, that debate has grown sharper teeth. Last May, gay rights demonstrators were badly beaten during a rally that had been condemned beforehand by the Georgian Orthodox Church. Ivanishvili denounced the violence, but the antimodern sentiment isn’t just aimed at buildings anymore. “That was the most shameful day in our history,” Bokeria says. “They’re trying to make us un-Georgian.”
最近，这样的争辩已经走向了白热化。去年5月，为同性恋争取权利的示威者在一次集会中遭到痛打，集会在开始之前就遭到了格鲁吉亚东正教教会的谴责。伊万尼什维利谴责了这起暴力事件，但反现代的情绪已不再局限于建筑这个方面了。“那是格鲁吉亚历史上最耻辱的一段时期，”博克里亚说，“他们正试图使我们‘去格鲁吉亚化’。”
“I believe there’s a tipping point for everything,” Kancheli says. “Saakashvili finally reached it, and now he’s gone. I think Ivanishvili’s government will ultimately reach a point on the other extreme, and then they’ll be gone too. Hopefully, one day Georgians will learn how to live in the middle.” Whichever way Georgia swings, a building somewhere in Tbilisi will commemorate it.
“我认为凡事都有一个引爆点，”坎切利说，“萨卡什维利最终触及了这个引爆点，现在，他倒台了。我认为伊万尼什维利政府会走向另一个极端，他们也会倒台。但愿终有一天，格鲁吉亚人能够学会如何在两者之间找到平衡。”无论格鲁吉亚走向何处，都会有一座划时代的建筑耸立在第比利斯的某处，作为纪念。