While working on the design of a synagogue for a nonprofit organization, Stephen Cassell, a partner in Architecture Research Office, the New York firm, was approached by a board member.
纽约公司“建筑设计研究办工室”（Architecture Research Office，ARO）的合伙人斯蒂芬·卡塞尔(Stephen Cassell) 在为某个非盈利组织设计犹太教堂时，一名董事会的成员向他走了过来。
“The board member said, ‘I have a strange question: Would you be interested in designing a really modern chicken coop?’ ” Mr. Cassell said. “How could we say no to that?”
“这位董事会成员说，‘我有个不情之请：你有兴趣来设计一座非常现代化的鸡舍吗？’”卡塞尔说，“我们怎么能拒绝呢？”
He didn’t. And after reading books from the 1960s and ’70s on building what Mr. Cassell called “hippie how-to chicken coops,” the architect and his colleagues at ARO, including Ethan Feuer, a designer, set about building an aesthetically compelling coop.
他当然没有。在翻阅了一些20世纪60年代至70年代、被卡塞尔称为“嬉皮士鸡舍入门”的书籍后，这位建筑师和他在ARO的同事们，包括设计师伊桑·福伊尔(Ethan Feuer)，开始动手建造一座美轮美奂的鸡舍。
“Part of it was just trying to understand how this would work,” Mr. Cassell said. “The little thing is 60 square feet. How do you approach it from a design standpoint?”
“我们的一部分目的也是想了解一下，这东西该怎么做，”卡塞尔说，“这么小的建筑，面积才60平方英尺（约5.6平方米）。你该怎样从建筑设计的角度来完成这件作品呢？”
Their coop features radiant floor heating, a metal roof with folded shingle edges that create patterns of shade and discrete easy-access doors to collect the eggs and empty the manure. Completed last summer, the six-foot-high coop now sits in the Hamptons (where else?) behind the client’s farmhouse — although you could argue that Mr. Cassell’s real clients were the chickens. The architect spoke by phone about taking high-design down to the farm. (This interview has been edited and condensed.)
他们的鸡舍装有辐射式地暖，铺着带有叠瓦屋檐、可以投下各种图案阴影的金属屋顶，还安装了若干各自独立、开关方便的小门，以便收集鸡蛋和清空粪便。自去年夏天建好后，这座六英尺高（约1.8米）的鸡舍就屹立在了汉普顿（还能是哪儿？），这位客户的农场后面——虽然你可能会争辩说，卡塞尔真正的客户其实是那些鸡。这位设计师通过电话接受采访，谈起了将高端设计运用于农场的心得（这篇采访经过编辑删减）。
Q. Did you know anything about chicken coops before starting this? Ever been in one?
问：开始这次设计之前，你对鸡舍是否有所了解？以前设计过鸡舍吗？
A. I’m from Brooklyn. So, no. Well, I have an old family friend, a friend of my parents. He was a photographer who had all these varieties of chickens. I remember seeing his chicken coop years ago.
答：我来自布鲁克林，所以没有。不过，我有一位世交，也就是我父母的朋友。他是个摄影师，曾经拍过各个品种的鸡。我记得几年前曾见过他的鸡舍。
But for all of our projects, we do a fair amount of research. What’s going to work? What are the parameters? How do you design this in a way that’s not just an aesthetic function?
但我们对所有项目都会做大量的研究。考虑怎么做才会行之有效，参数应该是多少，怎样做才能让你的设计不仅仅是美观而已。
It has to be functional, in other words.
问：换句话说，必须实用。
Yes. Form follows fowl.
答：是的。设计，以家禽为本。
What did you learn about existing coop design?
问：你从现有的鸡舍设计中学到了什么？
Some chicken coop designs are faux rustic farm buildings. That’s not very interesting. Chicken coops also tend to be piecemeal. There’s a big ugly latch or door to clean the coop out, another door to get in to harvest the eggs. We wanted to do something with a clear singular form that’s interesting and can work really well. It’s the same questions we ask when we’re designing a house.
答：有些鸡舍的外观模仿了乡村农场里的建筑。那样的设计不是很有趣。许多鸡舍也往往设计得很零乱，通常有一个又大又丑的插销或大门供人们清洁整栋鸡舍，又有另一扇门供他们进去收集鸡蛋。而我们想用清晰而单一的形式来做点有趣又真正有用的东西。我们在设计一栋房屋的时候，问的也是同样的问题。
So when your clients are chickens, what kind of needs do you have to satisfy?
问：那如果你们的客户是一群鸡，你们必须满足它们怎样的需求呢？
A lot of it is common sense, but wouldn’t have been intuitive for me. Things like making sure the chickens are safe from predators in a fenced-in area. Making sure there isn’t too much exposed concrete so they don’t hurt themselves.
答：多数都在常识范畴，但对我而言并不是凭直觉即知的事。比如要确保这些鸡待在封闭空间里，远离那些捕食者。还要确保没有太多暴露在外的混凝土，以免它们伤了自己。
We designed three different versions. For one of them, we asked, “What if Marcel Breuer designed a Brutalist chicken coop?” It was poured-form concrete, very sculptural. It seemed interesting in a ridiculous way. But in the end, we decided to go in a different direction.
我们设计了三个不同的版本。针对其中一款设计，我们问自己，“如果让马歇·布劳耶（Marcel Breuer，在世界上首创钢管家具的产品设计师——译注）来设计一座野兽派的鸡舍，他会怎么做呢？”我们为这个方案选择了浇筑式混凝土结构，很有雕塑感，看起来有一种荒诞的趣味性。但是，最终我们还是决定朝另一个方向设计。
Why did you choose metal shingles and radiant floor heating?
问：你们为何选择了金属屋瓦与辐射式地暖？
They’re aluminum roofing material cut into a shingle shape. It seemed like a way to clad it so it wouldn’t automatically fall into the rustic category.
答：这些是切割成瓦片形状的铝制屋顶材料，看上去就像某种形式的金属包边，这样它就不会落入乡村建筑的窠臼。
This may be the only chicken coop that has radiant floor heating. Usually they’re lit, or warmed, by a light bulb. That’s what happens when you have a good contractor who does high-end Hamptons homes. When the contractor brought up radiant floor heating, I thought, ‘That’s ridiculous.’ But then I thought, ‘That’s a really good idea.’ If the heating fails, you’d have a bunch of dead chickens in winter.
这可能是唯一一栋带辐射式地暖的鸡舍。普通鸡舍都采用灯泡照明或供暖，但是当你聘请了一位专门承建高端汉普顿住宅的优秀建筑承包商后，就会发生这样的事。当这位承包商提到辐射式地暖时，我想“这太离谱了”；但转念又一想，“真是个好主意”。如果没有供暖，到冬天时，你得到的会是一堆死鸡。
Are these chickens living in a palatial home?
问：这些鸡是住在宫殿式的房屋里吗？
Do you mean is it a McMansion coop? No, the dimensions are very similar to typical coops. They may be pampered in style, but not square footage.
答：你是说，这是一栋麦氏豪宅型(McMansion)的大鸡舍吗？不，这座鸡舍的容积与普通鸡舍非常相似。它们也许住得很时尚，但建筑面积没那么大。
What was the budget for this project?
问：该项目的预算怎么样？
We didn’t have a lot of comparables. How do you even charge for a chicken coop? We decided to do it pro bono. We said: “Let’s just enjoy it. We’re going to have a great time, learn a lot.”
答：我们没有太多可供比较的项目。你该如何为一座鸡舍收费呢？所以，我们决定无偿提供设计。我们说：“让我们来尽情设计吧。我们肯定会做得很开心，学到很多东西。”
I think the client liked the idea of saying, “Just because it’s a chicken coop, it doesn’t mean you can’t be creative.” It is silly, but at the same time, why not make something interesting?
我想，这位客户肯定觉得这个想法不错，所以他说，“别以为这只是座鸡舍，你们就不能施展创意了。”感觉傻傻的，但与此同时，为何不做点有趣的东西出来呢？