As leading architects race to put their visual signatures on every nook and cranny of the world, one critic wonders whether globalization is really such a good thing.
眼看着顶尖建筑师们正争先恐后地在全世界的每一个角落留下自己的视觉印记，有评论人士担心，全球化是否真的那么美好。
Once upon a time, the great architecture of the world was strictly local. Travelers seeking the wonders of London, Paris and Florence saw buildings designed by Londoners, Parisians and Florentines. Or at least the English, the French and the Italians. Though architects were not necessarily tied to one city — Raphael was born in Urbino but built in Florence and Rome — most stayed close to home. Take Bernini’s attempt to spread his wings: Louis XIV invited the artist and architect to finish the east front of the Louvre but eventually turned the work over to a Frenchman, finding Bernini’s facade to be too Italian. And so it was, and so was he.
曾几何时，世界上的伟大建筑都具有很强的地方特色。如果游客想要领略伦敦、巴黎、佛罗伦萨的胜景，那么他们所看到的建筑就都是伦敦、巴黎、佛罗伦萨当地人的作品；要不然，至少也是本国人的手笔。尽管建筑师不一定会在一个城市终老——拉斐尔出生于乌尔比诺(Urbino)，但他的作品留在了佛罗伦萨和罗马——但多数人都会待在离家较近的地方。贝尼尼(Bernini)曾试图到外面闯荡，看看他的结果吧：路易十四曾邀请这位艺术家兼建筑师去完成卢浮宫东侧正面的修建，结果最终还是把这项任务交给了一名法国人，因为他发现，贝尼尼的方案太意式了。事实的确如此，这也是贝尼尼一贯的风格。
Today, European architects regularly work in the United States, Americans work in Europe and everybody works in Asia. This globalization of architecture would seem like a good thing for us, and it’s obviously good for (many) architects. If you are a city hoping to ping the world’s cultural radar, an institution looking to attract donors, or a condominium developer trying to lure deep-pocketed tenants, your architect better have a recognizable name.
如今，欧洲建筑师经常在美国做设计；美国建筑师也经常去欧洲工作；亚洲则是人人都去。这种建筑业的全球化现象，对我们来说似乎是件好事，对（很多）建筑师来说也显然是个好消息。如果一座城市想要成为文化名城，一个机构想要吸引捐助，或者一个共管公寓的开发商想要招徕富有的房客，那么，他们聘请的建筑师最好是个有名望的人。
Architecture, however, is a social art, rather than a personal one, a reflection of a society and its values rather than a medium of individual expression. So it’s a problem when the prevailing trend is one of franchises, particularly those of the globe-trotters: Renzo, Rem, Zaha and Frank. It’s exciting to bring high-powered architects in from outside. It flatters a city’s sense of self-importance, and fosters the perception of a place as a creative hotbed. But in the long run it’s wiser to nurture local talent; instead of starchitects, locatects. 
然而，建筑是一种社会艺术而非个人艺术，它是对一个社会及其价值观念的反映，而不是个人的表达媒介。因此，当特许经营连锁店似的现象成为建筑业的大势所趋——尤其是当伦佐(Renzo)、雷姆(Rem)、扎哈(Zaha)和弗兰克(Frank)这些满世界跑的建筑师成为行业主流时——就会产生问题。能从外面请到能力高超的建筑师，是件令人激动的事。它能满足一座城市的虚荣心，使人们将这里视为创造力的沃土。但是，从长远的角度看，培养本地人才才是更明智的选择；与其任用明星建筑师，不如任用专注于本地需求、采用本土建材和人工的建筑师。
At minimum, imported talents just passing through town — however talented they may be — don’t intimately know the place they are working in. Sometimes it’s as simple as not understanding the climate. When New York-based Philip Johnson and John Burgee designed the IDS Center in Minneapolis, they included a glass-roofed atrium, which has on occasion been cordoned off during the winter because of leaks and glass breakage as fragments of ice fall from the adjacent tower. Gehry’s Stata Center at M.I.T. experienced similar problems.
退一步说，外来的建筑师只是过客，不管他们多有才华，终究不熟悉他们工作的地方。有时候，问题就出在不了解当地气候这种小细节上。纽约建筑师菲利普·约翰逊(Philip Johnson)和约翰·伯奇(John Burgee)在明尼阿波利斯市(Minneapolis)设计IDS中心(IDS Center)时，他们的方案包括一座带有玻璃屋顶的天井。现在，每到冬天，这座天井时不时就会被人用警戒线围起来，因为旁边的大楼上会有冰块落下来，造成屋顶漏水或者玻璃破裂。盖里(Gehry)在麻省理工学院设计的史塔特中心(Stata Center)也有类似的问题。
More to the point, a true sense of place is an abstract and rather elusive concept. Cities have their own patterns of building, influenced by the pace of life, the quality of light, historic traditions or simply the materials available. Buildings that acknowledge these patterns reinforce the sense of a particular place — they belong. Sparkly, effervescent Venetian Gothic belongs to La Serenissima, just as severe stone Georgian belongs to Edinburgh. And when we are in these cities, they make us feel that we belong, too. To invert Gertrude Stein, there is a there there.
更重要的是，真正的地方归属感是一个抽象而较为晦涩的概念。每个城市都有自己的建筑模式，影响这种模式的，是当地的生活节奏、采光质量、历史传统，或者单纯只是可用的建材。符合这些模式的建筑能够强化地方归属感——它们属于这里。风格奔放、充满生机的威尼斯哥特式建筑属于威尼斯城邦(La Serenissima)，正如粗犷的乔治风格砖石建筑属于爱丁堡(Edinburgh)。而且，当我们身处这些城市的时候，这些建筑也能让我们产生归属感。如果把格特鲁德·斯泰因（Gertrude Stein，美国作家——译注）的那句名言反过来说，就是那里有“魂”。
A local architect senses the there instinctively, not just intellectually. To me, Robert A. M. Stern’s 15 Central Park West seems more at home in Manhattan than Norman Foster’s nearby Hearst Tower. It’s not that the British Foster came up with a bad design, but the building, which comes to a halt at the 46th floor, has a sculptural quality that is alien to the New York skyline. Stern, a native New Yorker and a longtime student of its architecture, knows that the best Gotham City skyscrapers have tops. On his home ground, Foster exhibits a surer touch. The “Gherkin,” at 30 St. Mary Axe, is as sculptural as the Hearst Tower, but it is located in London, a city that is still predominantly low, so the unusual shape is more visible and makes an interesting contribution to the emerging skyline, its gray skin complementing the Portland stone of the surrounding older buildings.
本地建筑师对一座城市的“魂”具有本能的感知，而不仅仅是知性的理解。对我来说，罗伯特·A·M·斯特恩(Robert A. M. Stern)的中央公园西15号，比诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)在附近设计的赫斯特大厦(Hearst Tower)更适合曼哈顿。并不是说英国人福斯特设计得很差，而是因为他的那座建筑到46层就戛然而止了，其形态特点与纽约天际线的景观格格不入。而斯特恩是纽约本地人，对纽约建筑研究了很长时间，他知道高谭市（Gotham City，纽约市的别称——译注）最好的摩天大厦都有设计精美的屋顶。福斯特在自己的家乡展现出了更敏锐的艺术感知力。被人称为“小黄瓜”(Gherkin) 的圣玛莉艾克斯30号大楼(30 St. Mary Axe)，和赫斯特大厦一样形态优美，但是它位于伦敦。那里的多数建筑依然比较低矮，因此“小黄瓜”的独特形态更加显眼，对伦敦正在成型的天际线景观形成了一种有趣的贡献。其表面的灰色色调与周围老建筑的波特兰石（Portland stone一种白中发黄的石灰石，用于建筑——译注）相得益彰。
Building in a place where you don’t live, it’s easy to experiment, even to be outlandish. How else to explain all those weird high-rises plopped down in Dubai? On the other hand, an architect building in his hometown is aware that he, his neighbors, his colleagues and his friends will have to live with the result. Moshe Safdie has built interesting buildings around the world, but in his native Israel, his commissions have a special quality. It may be the way that he uses Jerusalem limestone, or how he takes advantage of the bright Mediterranean sunshine, or the understanding of street life that he brings to his drafting table, but in the rambling courtyards and arcades of Hebrew Union College, or the austerely beautiful Holocaust History Museum at Yad Vashem, his architecture — always adventurous — is also resolutely rooted in place.
如果建房的地方不是自己所住之处，建筑师就很容易会随便试验，甚至追求怪异的效果。要不然怎么解释迪拜突然冒出来的那些风格怪异的高楼大厦呢？另一方面，假如建筑师是在自己的家乡建房，那么他就会意识到，自己的邻居、同事、朋友将不得不承受糟糕设计带来的后果。莫瑟·萨夫迪(Moshe Safdie)在世界各地都留下了有意思的作品，但在自己的家乡以色列，他的作品有一种特殊的品质。这可能是因为他采用了耶路撒冷石灰石，利用了地中海的明媚阳光，或者把他对街区生活的理解运用到了制图桌上。不过，无论是希伯来协和学院(Hebrew Union College)供人闲庭信步的庭院拱廊，还是庄严壮美的大屠杀历史博物馆（Holocaust History Museum，希伯来语：Yad Vashem），他的建筑虽然一向风格大胆，但也深深根植于当地的风土人情。