Teddy Lin’s teachers were worried.
泰迪·林(Teddy Lin)让老师们很担心。
For the first few weeks of preschool, Teddy, a 3-year-old Chinese immigrant, cried nearly every day. While his classmates recited stories in English about dogs and elephants, he talked in Mandarin. Some days, he sat quietly and refused to play.
在进托幼园的前几个星期里，今年3岁、从中国移民来美国的泰迪几乎天天都要大哭。当同学们用英语复述关于小狗和大象的故事时，他说的是普通话。有些日子，他一个人安静地坐着，不愿意玩。
His teachers responded with a radical plan. They began learning Mandarin, tutored his parents in reading, and paired Teddy with older classmates to teach him about topics like woodland animals. Within a few months, Teddy was performing on a par with his peers.
他的老师们用一个激进的办法来应对。他们开始学习普通话，辅导泰迪的父母阅读，还找来年纪稍长的同学跟泰迪配对，教他各种主题会话，比如森林里有什么样的动物。不出几个月，泰迪已经跟同龄人表现无异了。
Officials across the country, including Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, are looking to efforts like those in New Jersey as they seek to broaden access to free, full-day prekindergarten. President Obama embraced the policy last year, and politicians in several states, including Maryland, Texas and Washington, are considering ambitious expansions.
美国各地官员，包括纽约市市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)在希望进一步扩大免费全天托幼园规模时，都在参考类似新泽西州这样的努力。奥巴马总统去年表示拥护这一政策，包括马里兰、得克萨斯和华盛顿在内几个州的政治家正在野心勃勃地考虑扩大幼儿园学龄前教育规模。
Though experts differ on the long-term benefits of preschool, the programs in 31 low-income districts in New Jersey are widely acknowledged for strong results. But they are also more expensive and intensive than what many officials — including Mr. de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York — have proposed.
尽管专家们对幼儿园学龄前教育的长远益处看法不一，但新泽西州31个低收入地区的学前项目取得了很好的收效，得到广泛认同。但这个项目远比很多官员——包括白思豪市长和纽约州长安德鲁·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)——所提议的要更加昂贵和密集。
In New Jersey, students attend prekindergarten for two years, not one. Class sizes are limited to 15. Teachers generally have more training than in New York. And it took more than a decade to perfect the model: The districts faced a host of challenges, including persuading families to enroll and rolling out a robust curriculum.
在新泽西州，孩子们要上两年托幼园，而不是通常的一年。班级人数上限是15人。相比纽约的托幼园老师，新泽西的老师们通常接受了更多训练。而且该州花费了10多年时间才将这种模式得以完善：各个学区都面临一系列阻力，包括要动员家长们让子女来上课，并且设计出更健全的课程。
A top priority of Mr. de Blasio is persuading state lawmakers and the governor to pass a tax on high-income city residents to pay for universal prekindergarten, and on Monday he is expected to present his case in Albany. But New Jersey’s example suggests that even if he is successful, he will face perhaps a greater challenge: making prekindergarten programs worth the money.
白思豪市长的当务之急是游说州议员和州长，通过向该市高收入居民征税来支付普遍学龄前教育经费，周一他将在奥尔巴尼提出该动议。但新泽西的例子表明，就算他的征税提案能够获得成功，也将可能面对一个更大的挑战：让幼儿园学龄前教育项目的经费花得物有所值。
“We have to get this right,” said Geoffrey Canada, the leader of the Harlem Children’s Zone, which operates prekindergarten and charter schools. “We do not need another lousy service for poor kids that we feel good about but that doesn’t actually accomplish anything.”
“我们千万得把这件事做对了，”杰奥弗里·卡纳达(Geoffrey Canada)说。他是哈勒姆儿童地带(Harlem Children’s Zone)的主管，这家机构管理着几所托幼园和特许学校。“我们需要的不是又一个针对穷孩子的烂服务，也许我们自己觉得这种服务想法不错，但实质上难以取得任何效果。”
During his campaign for mayor, Mr. de Blasio presented his prekindergarten plan as a way of reducing inequality in the city. He pointed to persistent disparities between poor children and their more affluent counterparts, noting research that shows language gaps emerge in children as early as 18 months.
在竞选市长期间，白思豪曾提出他的幼儿园学前教育计划是一种可以缩小该市不平等的办法。他指出在贫困儿童和家境较富有的同龄人之间存着难以消弭的差距，并拿出研究证明，在年龄低至18个月的幼儿身上就已经出现了语言差异。
Scholars have long debated the best way to address those inequities. Studies of two landmark programs, the Perry Preschool Project in Michigan and the Abecedarian Project in North Carolina, suggested the answer might rest in early childhood education. Students who participated in the programs showed some academic improvement and were more likely to avoid negative outcomes later on, such as arrest and teenage pregnancy.
长期以来，学者们一直在探讨解决这类不平等的最佳方式。对两项里程碑式项目——分别是密歇根佩里幼儿园学前项目和北卡罗来纳启蒙项目——进行的研究表明，答案或许就在于早期儿童教育。加入了上述项目的学生们表现出了一些学业进展，而且在多年后更有可能避免出现负面后果，比如被捕或未成年怀孕。
But some education experts have cast doubt on the relevance of those studies, given that they involved small groups of students and took place several decades ago. And they have warned that prekindergarten is not a panacea, noting a 2010 study that showed some of the benefits of the federal Head Start program had faded by the end of first grade.
但是，也有些教育专家对这些研究的相关性提出质疑，指出研究仅涉及小群体学生，而且项目都成立于几十年前。他们还警告说，幼儿园学龄前教育并非灵丹妙药，并指出2010年的一项研究显示，由联邦政府牵头的“启智计划”(Head Start program)带来的部分益处，在孩子们读完小学一年级后就已经消失殆尽。
“We know a lot less about what works in early childhood programs than the prevailing policy narrative would suggest,” said Grover J. Whitehurst, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former federal education official. He suggested that rather than offering prekindergarten to all 4-year-olds, New York should focus its efforts on low-income children, who have been shown in studies to make larger gains than their counterparts.
“对于儿童早期教育的作用，我们所了解的远比现在俯拾皆是的政策宣传要少得多，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)研究员、前联邦教育官员格洛沃·怀特赫斯特(Grover J. Whitehurst)说。他建议与其向所有4周岁儿童提供学前教育，纽约市应当将把核心放在低收入家庭儿童身上，多项研究表明这部分孩子相比同龄人，能从早期教育中得到更大的收获。
Such a program might not be politically palatable in New York, where preschool classes in middle-class neighborhoods often have long waiting lists.
在想要进位于中产阶级社区的托幼园往往得早早报名轮候的纽约市，针对低收入儿童的项目或许从政治上看不那么讨喜。
Mr. de Blasio has rejected the idea of limiting enrollment to poor students. “It is for everyone,” he said last year. “Doesn’t matter if you’re wealthy, doesn’t matter if you’re poor, doesn’t matter what color you are, what neighborhood you live in.”
白思豪市长已经排除了将名额仅对贫困生开放的主张。“项目会一视同仁，”去年他这样说，“不管你是贫穷还是富有，不管你是什么肤色，也不管你住在哪个社区。”
New Jersey began offering universal prekindergarten in 31 of its poorest school districts, including Union City, after a court ruling in 1998 demanded more funding for early education. Union City serves about 1,900 prekindergarten students, many of them the children of Latin American immigrants.
1998年，在一项要求对早期教育投入更多资金的法院裁决宣布后，新泽西州开始对31个收入最低的校区提供普遍幼儿园学龄前教育，当中包括了联合城，该市当时有1900名左右学龄前儿童，其中很多是拉美移民子女。
One recent day, Teddy and his classmates matched objects — footballs, sleighs, flowers — with the names of the seasons.
最近有一天，泰迪和同学们将物品——足球、雪橇、花朵——跟四季的名称连线。
“At this age, they are sponges,” said Lucas Abreu, a physical education teacher. “People might think this is glorified day care, but it’s the opposite. They learn to be students. They come out of their shells.”
“在这个年纪，他们就跟海绵一样，”体育老师卢卡斯·艾布罗(Lucas Abreu)说，“大家也许会以为，这无非是高档托儿所，但恰恰相反。他们要在这里学习成为学生，他们将破壳而出。”
A number of the New Jersey districts had difficulty recruiting students at first and resorted to creative marketing. They lined trays at McDonald’s with fliers, hit the Sunday speaking circuit at churches, and hung bilingual banners emphasizing that the program was free.
起初有几个新泽西的学区招不到学生，因此采取了有创意的推广手段。他们在麦当劳餐厅的餐盘上放上了宣传单张，周日去教堂做演讲，高挂双语横幅强调项目完全免费。
“There was a cultural shift,” said Stanley M. Sanger, the Union City schools superintendent. Education officials here estimate that they now enroll virtually all of the city’s 3- and 4-year-olds in preschool programs for six hours each day. Some students participate in a summer program as well.
“这是一种文化变迁，”联合城学区主管斯坦利·桑格(Stanley M. Sanger)说。当地教育部门官员预计，现在该市所有3岁和4岁儿童均已加入了每天六小时的幼儿园学龄前教育项目，还有些孩子另外参加了夏季班。
New York City has long provided preschool opportunities to children — it educates about 58,000 4-year-olds, most of them black and Hispanic. About two-thirds of those children attend part-day programs, which last two and a half hours each day, compared with six hours and 20 minutes for full-day programs. Mr. de Blasio’s plan calls for expanding access to full-day prekindergarten to 48,000 more in the next five years.
多年来纽约市一直向儿童提供幼儿园学龄前教育机会——现在目前有5.8万名4周岁儿童在读，大部分为非洲和西班牙裔。其中三分之二儿童参加的是每天两个半小时的半天班，而其余儿童参加每天6小时20分钟的全天班。白思豪市长则计划在五年后，能将接受全天幼儿园学龄前教育的儿童人数再增加4.8万人。
The number of low-income families in the city who choose to enroll their children in prekindergarten is still disproportionately low. About 52 percent of prekindergarten students qualified last year for free or reduced lunch programs, city data shows; across the city, 75 percent of students qualify.
在纽约，愿意将孩子进去托幼园的低收入家庭仍然极少。该市数据显示，去年在托幼园学生中，约有52%符合全免或部分减免午餐费资格；而在全市范围中，有75%的学生满足资格。
New Jersey’s experience with prekindergarten offers some evidence that two-year prekindergarten programs may be more valuable to disadvantaged students than one-year programs, as Mr. de Blasio has proposed.
新泽西州在幼儿园学龄前教育方面的经验提供了一些证据，证明两年的托幼园课程相比一年，对于弱势学生来说或许更有价值，而这也正是白思豪的论点。
A Rutgers University study last year of prekindergarten programs in high-poverty New Jersey districts showed that students who participated in prekindergarten as 3- and 4-year-olds outperformed those who enrolled for only one year. Under Mr. de Blasio’s plan, 3-year-olds would not be eligible. The mayor’s advisers noted that several school districts, including Boston’s, had shown promising results with only one year of preschool.
去年罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)有关新泽西高度贫困地区学前项目的研究表明，在3岁或4岁读托幼园的孩子，其表现要优于仅读了一年托幼园的小孩。不过白思豪的计划排除了3岁的儿童，市长的顾问们指出，在部分学区，包括波士顿市，仅仅一年的托幼园课程就已经带来了显著成效。
New Jersey preschool teachers tend to have more training than those in New York. New Jersey requires all preschool teachers to have certification in early childhood education. In New York, teachers employed directly by the Education Department must hold similar credentials. But about two-thirds of all preschool programs in the city are run by community groups, where teachers need to show only an intention to become certified within five years; as a result, they are paid around $24,000 less than their counterparts in New Jersey.
相比纽约的托幼园老师，新泽西的老师往往接受了更多训练。新泽西要求所有托幼园老师持有早期教育证书。而在纽约，由教育局直接聘用的老师须拥有类似资质，但该市的各种学前班中，有约2/3是由社区团体运营，在这里，教师仅需要表明自己有在五年内获得证书的意愿即可；也正因为此，他们比新泽西的同类老师收入要少2.4万美元。
Mr. de Blasio has yet to offer specifics about teacher salaries or credentials. His proposal, based on revenue from the tax he is seeking, sets aside about $10,000 per student per year. In New Jersey, the cost is about $13,000.
白思豪目前并未涉及教师薪水或资质这类细节。他的计划建立在他正在寻求的税收来源基础上，在每个学生每学年上约可拨款1万美元。而在新泽西，花费约为1.3万美元。
Mr. Cuomo’s plan, which would use state funding but no new tax, appears to allot far less money for the city, though the governor recently signaled he would be willing to pay whatever costs Mr. de Blasio’s program accrues.
库默州长的计划则是使用纽约州的资金，而非实施新的税收政策，这样一来给纽约市拨放的资金看来更加少，不过州长近期暗示原意为白思豪市长项目的各项花费买单。
Wiley Norvell, a spokesman for the mayor, said that the quality of his prekindergarten programs would be “above and beyond what currently exists in New York City.”
市长发言人威利·诺维尔(Wiley Norvell)说，这项学前教育项目的质量将“远高于纽约市的现有水准”。
“Quality and universality we see as equally important, and we are aggressively pursuing both,” he said.
“在我们看来，质量与普及是同样重要的，而我们正在积极谋求这两项的共同发展，”他说。
One of Mr. de Blasio’s most immediate challenges will be to find space to house new prekindergarten programs. Many schools are already strapped for classroom space, and some have reduced such programs in recent years to make room for an influx of kindergarten students.
白思豪眼下的当务之急是要为新的托幼园寻找校舍。一些学校的班级场地已经捉襟见肘，而另一些在近年来缩减了托幼园班级规模，好容纳更多的幼儿园学生。
In Union City, space is less of a concern. In 2007, the school district opened a $13 million, 38,000-square-foot early childhood center, complete with a health center, kitchen and playground.
在联合城，校舍问题没那么严峻。2007年，该校区一个造价1300万美元、面积达3.8万平方英尺的早期儿童中心开放，这里还配有健康中心、后厨和操场。
Mr. de Blasio’s plan sets aside $50 million each year to rent space; some possible sites include day-care centers, housing developments and libraries. Another option may be charter schools, which are lobbying for a change in state law so that they can offer prekindergarten classes. Mr. de Blasio has been critical of charter schools but recently suggested a willingness to work with them.
白思豪计划每年投入5000万美元用于租用场地；可能的托幼园场所包括一些日托中心、住宅项目和图书馆。另外一个选择可能是特许学校，校方正游说改变州法律，好让它们提供托幼园课程。白思豪一直对特许学校持批评态度，但近期表示愿意与其合作。
Gail B. Nayowith, a member of a six-person task force appointed by Mr. de Blasio to carry out his prekindergarten plan, said that while the mayor wanted to ensure positive academic outcomes, that was not the only goal. With more children enrolled in prekindergarten, she said, parents would be able to work more hours during the day.
盖尔·B·诺约韦斯(Gail B. Nayowith)是由白思豪任命的六人幼儿园学前项目小组成员，她说尽管市长确实希望项目能为学生们带来积极的课业成果，但这并非唯一的目标。随着更多孩子进入托幼园，家长们将能够在白天工作更长时间。
“It’s not just the implication for the 4-year-old, it’s also what it means for the family,” Ms. Nayowith said in an interview. “If we want people to live, work and raise their children in New York, we have to be able to meet their needs.”
“它不仅涉及4岁的孩子，也会对家庭带来影响，”诺约韦斯女士在采访中说，“如果我们希望大家能在纽约生活、工作并生儿育女，就需要有能力满足他们的需求。”
She was confident the city could hire enough teachers and find space to open thousands of seats by September. “It may not be pretty,” she said, “but the doors will be open.”
她相信到今年9月前，纽约将可以聘请到充足的老师，并找到容纳几千名学生的校舍。“校园也许不是特别漂亮，”她说，“但它的大门将会敞开。”