When I view the Moon, there are times when I feel like I’m on a time machine. I am back to a cherished point in the past — now nearly 45 years ago — when Neil Armstrong and I stood on that bleak, but magnificent lunar landscape called the Sea of Tranquility.
当我抬头望月时，有时觉得自己仿佛置身于时间机器之中。我回到了过去的一个宝贵时刻，那一刻距今快要45年了。那时，尼尔·阿姆斯特朗(Neil Armstrong)和我站在月球上的一片荒凉却壮观的土地上，那里叫做静海(Sea of Tranquility)。
While we were farther away from Earth than humans had ever been, the fact is that we weren’t alone. An estimated 600 million people back on Earth, at that time the largest television audience in history, watched us plant our footprints on the Moon.
当时我们是离地球最远的人类，但事实上我们并不是自己在战斗。估计当时地球上有6亿观众在看着我们在月球上留下足迹。那是当时史上最大的电视观众群体。
Fast forward to today. Now I see the Moon in a far different light — not as a destination but more a point of departure, one that places humankind on a trajectory to homestead Mars and become a two-planet species.
时间快进到今天。如今，我对月亮的看法变了，不再将其视为一个目的地，而是一个出发点，人类从月球上出发，到达火星，变成一个可以穿梭于两个行星之间的物种。
It is time to lay the groundwork for effective global human exploration of space.
是时候为全球人类有效探索空间打下根基了。
NASA’s Apollo program adopted a get-there-in-a-hurry, straightforward space race strategy that left the former Soviet Union in the lunar dust. Doing so meant don’t waste time developing reusability. Let’s close that chapter in the space exploration history books.
美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的阿波罗登月计划(Apollo)使用的是迅速到达的、直截了当的空间策略，把前苏联甩在月球上的尘土之后。这么做意味着不要浪费时间考虑可重复利用性。现在让我们翻过空间探索史上的这一页。
I am calling for a unified international effort to explore and utilize the Moon, a partnership that involves commercial enterprise and other nations building upon Apollo. Let me emphasize: A second “race to the Moon” is a dead end. America should chart a course of being the leader of this international activity to develop the Moon. The United States can help other nations do things that they want to do, a fruitful avenue for U.S. foreign policy and diplomacy.
我呼吁全世界一起努力探索并利用月球，这种合作涉及在阿波罗计划基础上发展的商业行为及其他国家的项目。我想强调：第二次“登月竞赛”是一个死胡同。美国应该作为这一全球开发月球行动的领导者制定路线。美国可以帮助其他国家做它们想做的事情。这对美国外交来说，是一个有成果的舞台。
A step in the right direction is creating an International Lunar Development Corporation, customized to draw upon the legacy of lessons learned from such endeavors as the International Geophysical Year (whose purpose was to get scientists all over the world to focus on the physics and atmosphere of the Earth), the International Space Station program, as well as model organizations such as Intelsat and the European Space Agency. Space collaboration should be the new norm, including the tapping of talented Chinese, Indian and other space experts from around the globe.
朝着正确方向迈进一步的做法是，缔造一个国际月球发展合作组织(International Lunar Development Corporation)，旨在从国际地理物理年（International Geophysical Year，该活动目的在于是让全球科学家专注于地球的物理及大气问题）与国际空间站项目(International Space Station)等活动，以及国际通信卫星组织(Intelsat)和欧洲航天局(European Space Agency)等模范组织的经验宝库中汲取养分。空间合作将成为新的规范，包括利用中国、印度及全球其他国家空间专家的才华。
In my view, U.S. resources are better spent on moving toward establishing a human presence on Mars. I envision a comprehensive plan that would lead to permanent human settlement on Mars in the next 25 years. To get under way, the International Space Station can serve as a test bed for long-duration life support and for technologies that can safely, reliably and routinely transport crews to the distant shores of Mars. I’ve championed the creation of spacecraft to be placed on continuous loops between Mars and Earth, thereby putting in place a pathway to sustainability that forever links the two planets.
在我看来，美国最好能够朝着让人类在火星上活动的方向投入资源。我设想的是一个全面的计划，能让火星在今后25年内出现人类的永久性定居点。为了开始这一计划，国际空间站可以作为一个实验平台，测试长期生命支持功能，以及那些可以安全地、可靠地、经常地把人运送到遥远的火星的技术。我支持打造一个不断往返在火星和地球之间的航天器，这样就能建立一个具备可持续性的路线，可以永远地连接两个行星。
Going to Mars means staying on Mars — a mission by which we are building up a confidence level to become a two-planet species. At Mars, we’ve been given a wonderful set of moons — one of which, perhaps Phobos, can act as an offshore world from which crews can robotically preposition hardware and establish radiation shielding on the Martian surface to begin sustaining increasing numbers of people. To succeed at Mars, you cannot stop with a one-shot foray to the surface.
登上火星意味着在火星上驻留——通过这种行动，我们在获得一种变成双星球物种的自信心。我们可以利用火星众多不错的卫星。例如，其中的火卫一(Phobos)可以作为一个离岸地点，从那里，太空船船员可以用机器人提前设置装备，并在火星表面建立辐射保护罩，为增加的居民人口进行准备。要想在火星取得成功，不能只是登上火星一次就结束。
My passion for space exploration is guided by two principles: a continuously expanding human presence in space, and retention of U.S. leadership in space. To move forward, what’s required is what I term as a Unified Space Vision for America that is predicated on exploration, science, development, commerce and security. To reach beyond low Earth orbit requires a suite of missions that are the foundation for such a Unified Space Vision. Putting in place and staying on track with this unified approach must begin now.
我对于空间探索的热情基于两个原则：持续扩大人类的空间活动，以及保持美国在空间的领导地位。为了实现这两大目标，需要在探索、科学、开发、商业及安全领域实现我所说的美国空间统一愿景(Unified Space Vision for America)。要走出近地轨道，就需要开展一系列行动，来为这种空间统一前景打下基础。我们现在就必须据此开展行动，并持之以恒。
I call for an international effort to further explore and utilize the Moon. It would be a partnership that involves commercial enterprise and other nations building upon the Apollo legacy. But the real calling is Mars.
我呼吁各国联手，进一步探索和利用月球。这将是一个合作关系，涉及在阿波罗计划基础上发展的商业行为及其他国家的项目。但真正的任务是有关火星的。
By implementing a step-by-step vision — just as the United States did with the single-seat Mercury capsule, followed by the two-person Gemini spacecraft that made Apollo possible — humankind can push outward to the distant dunes of Mars.
通过实现一个循序渐进的设想，人类可以可以不断扩张，进而踏足火星的沙丘。美国的单座水星太空舱，以及随后使得阿波罗计划得以实现的两人双子星太空船就遵循的就是这样一种步骤。
Our Earth isn’t the only world for us anymore. It’s time to seek out new frontiers.
地球已经不再是我们唯一的世界，到了寻找新的拓荒地的时候了。