BEIJING — Could the solution to China’s urban gridlock be a flying bus?
北京——解决中国城市交通拥堵问题的，会不会是一种空中巴士？
A model for a giant, elevated bus was presented over the weekend at the Beijing International High-Tech Expo, though it was not the first time that what has been called a “straddling bus” had been proposed. The bus first made an appearance at the Beijing expo in 2010, but doubts about the project led to the cancellation of a trial run.
在周末的北京国际科技产业博览会上，出现了一辆巨型高架巴士的模型，但这并不是被称作“巴铁”的这种车首次被提出。它的第一次亮相是在2010年的北京博览会上，但对该项目的质疑导致一次试运行被取消。
Six years later, Song Youzhou, the designer of the bus, says that prototypes are being constructed. In an interview this week, he said that five Chinese cities — Nanyang, Qinhuangdao, Shenyang, Tianjin and Zhoukou — have signed contracts with his Batie Technology Development Company for pilot projects that will involve the construction of hundreds of miles of tracks starting this year.
六年后，巴铁的设计师宋有洲称，样车正在制造过程中。本周接受采访时，他表示已有五个城市——南阳、秦皇岛、沈阳、天津和周口——同他所在的巴铁科技发展有限公司签订了试验项目合同，将从今年开始修建数百英里长的轨道。
The cost of each bus will run about 30 million renminbi, or about $4.5 million, which Mr. Song put at one-sixteenth the price of a subway train. Buses were already under construction in Changzhou, Jiangsu Province, he said.
每辆巴铁的成本约为3000万人民币，宋有洲称这是一辆地铁列车价格的十六分之一。他说，江苏常州已经在制造巴铁了。
The elevated bus attracted international attention when the design was first unveiled in 2010 and was chosen by Time Magazine as one of the 50 best inventions that year. But it also attracted skepticism that the proposal could deliver on its promises.
2010年首次亮相时，这种高架巴士便引起了国际社会的关注，并被《时代》杂志(Time)选入当年的全球50佳发明。但也有人质疑它能否兑现其承诺。
The bus, powered in part by solar energy, would run on tracks, carrying up to 1,200 passengers in raised compartments that can glide over the traffic below. Critics at the time it was first unveiled questioned whether the hovering bus could interact safely with other vehicles. They also argued that the tracks would require relatively straight roads not found in many older urban areas, and that the overhead boarding stations that the bus needed would take up too much space.
动力部分来自太阳能的巴铁会在轨道上运行，上层最多可容纳1200名乘客，不影响车流从下层通过。首次亮相时对其持批评态度的人怀疑，高高在上的巴铁能否安全地与其他车辆互动。他们还称它的运行轨道要求道路相对较直，但很多老城区根本没有这样的道路，并且它需要有升高的站台，会占用太多空间。
Mr. Song responded in the Chinese news media that he had arranged to have Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Institute of Automotive Engineering to assess the feasibility of his design.
宋有洲曾对中国新闻媒体表示，他已安排让上海交通大学汽车研究院对设计的可行性进行评估。
However, the institute’s director, Yin Chengliang, denied in an interview with the newspaper Southern Weekend that he had any involvement with Mr. Song. The institute’s vice director and two professors said in the same report that they had conducted a design analysis, but that it was a personal initiative. Based on their assessment, the professors said, the design was “basically feasible” but “not perfect.”
然而，该研究院院长殷承良在接受《南方周末》的采访时否认自己和宋有洲有任何接洽。该研究院的副院长和两名教授在同一篇报道中表示他们对设计进行了分析，但属于个人行为。根据评估，教授们认为设计“基本可行”，但评估报告“并不是很完善”。
Shortly thereafter, a planned pilot project in the western Beijing district of Mengtougou was canceled. The director of the district’s science and technology commission told Southern Weekend, “News of the bus was overblown and attracted the displeasure of some people, which is probably why it was killed.”
不久后，北京西部门头沟区原定的试点项目被取消。该区科委主任张文波对《南方周末》表示，“现在立体快巴被炒得太火了，引起了一些人的不快，有可能它就被枪毙了。”
Since 2010, Mr. Song said in the interview this week, Lanzhou University, Tongji University and Xi’an Jiaotong University have all approved the bus design after conducting separate audits.
宋有洲本周接受采访时称，自2010年以来，兰州大学、同济大学和西安交通大学均在进行了独立审计后批准了该车的设计。
He dismissed his critics, calling them “so-called entrepreneurs and companies with their own interests.”
他对批评他的人不屑一顾，称他们是“有着自己的利益的所谓企业家和公司”。
In February, local governments approached Mr. Song with renewed interest in the bus as an environmentally efficient way to ease congestion, officials said. According to a 2015 study conducted by TomTom, a Dutch navigation company, nearly one-third of the world’s 50 most congested cities in the world were Chinese.
官员称，今年二月，地方政府重新燃起对立体快巴的兴趣，认为它节能环保，能有效缓解拥堵，于是找到宋有洲。荷兰导航公司TomTom在2015年进行的一项研究显示，全世界交通拥堵最严重的50个城市中，近三分之一在中国。
“In 2010, the bus was only a dream, but now it is in a mature stage,” said Wang Peng, director of the Shenyang chamber of commerce. After meeting with Mr. Song and assessing the safety of the bus technology, the Shenyang city government signed an agreement this month to build about 12 miles of elevated bus tracks for testing, Mr. Wang said.
“2010年，巴铁还只是一个梦想，但现在，它已经发展到了成熟阶段，”沈阳沈北新区招商局长王鹏说。他表示，在与宋有洲见了面，并对车辆技术的安全性进行了评估后，沈阳市政府本月签订了一项协议，将修建大约12英里长的巴铁高架轨道，用于试验。
“The elevated bus merges existing, mature technology found in railroads, subways and buses,” Mr. Wang said. “The only question is now how it will interact with other traffic once implemented.”
“巴铁融合了铁路、地铁和公交现有的成熟技术，”王鹏说。“现在唯一的问题是，一旦运行起来，它将如何与其他交通配合。”
To prevent traffic accidents, Mr. Song said guardrails would be constructed between the bus tracks and the car lanes that pass through the elevated bus. The rails would be able to absorb at least 70 percent of a collision’s impact to reduce damage to the bus and other vehicles. Lanes for the elevated bus would be limited to passenger vehicles no higher than 7.2 feet, and the buses are designed to meet zoning and bridge height regulations in each city.
为了防止发生交通事故，宋有洲称会在巴铁轨道和下层车道之间建立护栏。护栏将能吸收碰撞造成的至少70%撞击，以减少对巴铁和其他车辆的损害。巴铁下层的车道仅限不高于7.2英尺（约合2.2米）的乘用车通行，并且它的设计要符合各个城市的规划和桥梁高度规定。
Mr. Song said the buses were fully capable of turning corners, though the cars underneath must wait until the buses have passed before turning themselves.
宋有洲称巴铁完全能够转弯，不过下面的小汽车必须要等高铁通过弯道以后，才能转弯。
“People didn’t understand the technology before,” he said. “But now that the government supports entrepreneurship and innovation, our earlier critics haven’t said anything.”
“人们以前不懂这种技术，”他说。“但现在政府支持创业和创新，早前批评我们的人啥话都不说了。”