HAVANA — As an inside joke about all the cookies they scorched on the road to establishing a successful bakery, Antonio and Sandra Camacho Rodríguez named their Havana sweets shop the Burner Brothers.
哈瓦那——安东尼和桑德拉·卡马乔·罗德里格斯(Antonio and Sandra Camacho Rodríguez)把他们的哈瓦那甜食店命名为“火炉兄弟”(Burner Brothers)，这个名字隐含着一个只有他们才懂的笑话——在拥有一家成功的面包店之前，他们烤焦了无数的曲奇。
To them, it was a metaphor for the relentless trial and error it took for two inexperienced and untrained chefs — she is a doctor, and her brother was a salesman — to start a business in a communist country that was taking its first steps in private enterprise.
对他们来说，它象征着两个既没有相关经验又没有受过专业培训的厨师——她是一名医生，她弟弟是一名推销员——为了在一个刚刚允许开办私营企业的社会主义国家开启创业之旅，所付出的不懈努力和所犯的各种错误。
As tens of thousands of Cuban millennials give up on Cuba and head north, the Camachos are part of an expanding class of entrepreneurs who are opting to remain, betting on Cuba’s future despite serious challenges.
当成千上万千禧一代的古巴人放弃自己的祖国、选择北上的时候，一个日益扩大的创业者群体选择留守，他们相信古巴尽管面临严峻的挑战，但它的未来一定会更好。卡马乔姐弟俩就是这个群体中的一员。
“There’s an extremely powerful emerging market right now in Cuba,” said Mr. Camacho, 26, standing in their tiny shop, where cookies are 10 cents each, in Havana’s Vedado neighborhood. “To me, it’s easier to become part of an emerging market than to try to make it in some other country, where the market was created years ago.”
“古巴现在是一个极具影响力的新兴市场，”说这话的时候，26岁的卡马乔正站在他和姐姐位于哈瓦那维达度区的小店里，他们的曲奇每个售价10美分。“对我而言，成为一个新兴市场的参与者，要比去其他国家开店，在已经成形多年的市场里打拼来得容易。”
As President Obama met with President Raúl Castro of Cuba on Monday, a surprising statistic loomed over the two leaders: More than twice as many Cubans went to live in the United States last year than in 1959, when Mr. Castro’s brother Fidel came to power and unleashed a wave of migration that altered South Florida forever.
美国总统奥巴马和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)在周日的会面，被一个出人意料的统计数据笼罩着：去年前往美国定居的古巴人比卡斯特罗的兄长菲德尔(Fidel)上台的1959年多了一倍还不止——那一年发生了一波永远改变南佛罗里达州的移民潮。
While Mr. Obama attended a conference Monday afternoon with American business leaders and new entrepreneurs who are breathing life into a dying economy here, Cuba is bleeding doctors, small-business owners, construction workers and waitresses. Even with the country’s new restaurateurs and innkeepers, more beauticians have put down their clippers and more farmers have left their crops behind.
当奥巴马在周一下午出席一个会议，会见美国商业领袖以及为古巴垂死的经济注入活力的新生代企业家时，古巴的医生、小企业主、建筑工人和女服务生正在流失。尽管新涌现出了一些餐馆老板和旅店老板，但更多美容师放下了剪刀，更多农民把他们的庄稼抛在了身后。
“I think some people suffer from a lack of vision,” Mr. Camacho said. “Many people also live in a precarious situation, in humble surroundings or even extreme poverty.”
“我觉得有些人吃了眼界狭窄的亏，”卡马乔说。“还有很多人颠沛流离，或者生活在简陋的环境中，甚至处于赤贫状态。”
Recent migration patterns cast doubt on how much faith Cubans have in private-sector reforms. Last week, after Costa Rica cleared out dozens of shelters filled with Cuban migrants, sending them on the United States, 1,000 more showed up at its border with Panama.
近来的移民迹象让人不禁怀疑，古巴人到底对私营部门改革抱有多大信心。上周，哥斯达黎加清理了数十个挤满古巴移民的收容所，把他们送往美国。随后，又有一千多人出现在了哥斯达黎加和巴拿马边境。
“If you take a census of Cuba now, I’m not sure what would be left,” said Jenny Heredia Ocaña, 33, a former hospital administrator who recently closed her beauty salon in Havana and left for the United States.
“如果你现在对古巴做一次普查，我不确定会是什么结果，”33岁的珍妮·埃雷迪亚·奥卡尼亚(Jenny Heredia Ocaña)说。奥卡尼亚最近关闭了她在哈瓦那的美容院，动身前往美国。她以前曾是一名医院管理人员。
On her way she was marooned for months in Costa Rica, shuffling between migrant shelters where she encountered thousands of fellow Cubans.
抵达美国前，她困在哥斯达黎加长达数月之久，穿梭在不同的移民收容所之间，遇到了数千名古巴同胞。
Federal figures show that at least 63,000 Cubans moved to the United States last year, the bulk of them crossing the southwestern border on foot. More than 250,000 Cubans have been granted residency during the Obama administration alone — enough to populate a city almost the size of Orlando, Fla.
美国联邦机构的数据显示，去年至少有6.3万古巴人移居美国，他们中的大多数都是步行穿过东南方边境的。仅奥巴马执政期间，就有超过25万古巴人取得了居留权——几乎相当于佛罗里达州奥兰多市的人口规模。
In 2014, 122,000 Cubans were on the waiting list to join their families, one of the longest lists for American visas in the world.
2014年，12.2万古巴人在等待与家人团聚，这是世界上最长的美国签证等候名单之一。
“If the Cuban economy continues to falter, many Cubans will vote with their feet,” said Richard E. Feinberg, the author of “Open for Business,” a book about Cuba’s new economy.
“如果古巴经济继续衰退，很多古巴人会用脚投票，离开古巴，”《开门营业》(Open for Business)的作者理查德·E·范伯格(Richard E. Feinberg)说，这是一本有关古巴新经济的著作。
Yet even as tens of thousands of Cubans have given up on their homeland, millions have opted to stay.
不过，尽管有数万古巴人已放弃故土，还是有数以百万计的人选择了留下。
“Maybe 50,000 or 75,000 people left — that still means 11.2 million are still there,” said Mr. Feinberg, whose book includes a chapter on millennials who have opted to remain in Cuba.
“可能有5万或7.5万人离开，这意味着有1120万人还留在古巴，”范伯格说，他的书中有一章专门讲述了选择留在古巴的千禧一代。
Under new rules that allow private enterprise, the Cuban government had issued about 496,000 small business licenses by the end of last year. Nearly one-third of those business owners are young people.
截止去年年底，在允许建立私人企业的新规之下，古巴共计发放了49.6万个小型企业营业执照。其中有将近三分之一的企业主是年轻人。
“When people started to travel and could do so without being forced to stay abroad, it changed life here — the way people lived, the way they dressed,” said Emisleidy Maza Ramos, 27, who holds a number of jobs, including at her boyfriend’s food delivery business. “There’s a difference in the air.”
“当人们开始旅行，而且不用担心因为旅行而被迫流落海外时，这里的生活就发生了变化——人们生活的方式，穿着的方式，”27岁的埃米斯雷迪·马萨·拉莫斯(Emisleidy Maza Ramos)说，她同时身兼多职，其中包括在男朋友创办的送餐公司工作。“这里的气氛不一样了。”
Igor Thondike, who worked as a glassmaker in Cuba and recently moved to Tampa, Fla., said many new business owners back home could not get materials. Shoemakers, he said, could not find leather and “lost their investments.”
以前在古巴做玻璃工匠的伊戈尔·桑代克(Igor Thondike)，最近搬到了佛罗里达州坦帕市，他则表示，古巴的许多新企业主拿不到做生意的原材料。他说，有制鞋商因买不到皮革进行生产，而“损失了自己之前的投资”。
Ihosvany Oscar Artiles Ferrer, 44, a veterinarian who worked in Camagüey but recently moved to Queens, said the lack of wholesalers to buy supplies from made it difficult to eke out a profit.
44岁的兽医伊霍什瓦尼·奥斯卡·阿蒂莱斯·费雷尔(Ihosvany Oscar Artiles Ferrer)之前在巴西的卡马圭工作，最近移居到了纽约市的皇后区。他表示，因为古巴缺少批发商，企业主无从购买原料，很难赚到什么钱。
“The private business is like a handkerchief the government puts over everything to be able to say to the United Nations that in Cuba people own small businesses,” Mr. Artiles said.
“私人企业就像是个手帕，政府把它盖在所有东西上，然后就对联合国说，古巴人民可以做自己的小生意，”阿蒂莱斯说。
“In the beginning, almost all of us were revolutionaries,” he added. “But now, we quit all that because we don’t believe in Fidel, in the revolution, in socialism or anything.”
“一开始，我们所有人几乎都是革命派，”他记者说。“但现在，我们放弃了那一切，因为我们不相信菲德尔，不相信革命、社会主义或别的一切。”
The Obama administration clearly hopes that as the Castro government moves toward economic reform and Washington permits more commerce and travel, more Cubans will stay put, slowing the steady stream of exits that has contributed to a broader migration crisis.
奥巴马政府显然希望，随着卡斯特罗政府走向经济改革，华盛顿能进一步对它开放商业和旅游机会，这样就会有更多古巴人留在本国，由此减缓该国人口外流的速度，以避免美国遭遇更大范围的移民危机。
But Cuba also benefits from those who leave. Many businesses on the island begin with the remittances émigrés send back from the United States. The Camachos said that it took about $25,000 to start a business like their cookie company, and that they were fortunate to count on American citizens in their immediate family.
但古巴也从离开的人身上获得了好处。岛上的许多生意是因为有移居美国的古巴人寄回汇款，才得以开启。卡马乔姐弟表示，要开一家他们这种曲奇店，需要大约2.5万美元的启动资金，他们幸运地仰仗在美国的直系亲属筹得了这笔钱。
Benjamin J. Rhodes, the White House’s point man on Cuba, said last week that “greater economic activity in the island is going to be good for the Cuban people.”
白宫的古巴事务负责人本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)上周表示，“在岛上开展更多经济活动，将会有益于古巴人民。”
“It’s going to be a source of empowerment for them,” said Mr. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser. “It’s going to improve their livelihoods.”
“这会成为增强他们信心和能力的一个源泉，”任总统副国家安全顾问罗兹说道。“可以提高他们的生活水平。”
But Cuba’s foreign minister, Bruno Rodríguez, scoffed at the empowerment reference and blamed Washington for the exodus. Many Cubans have said they have rushed to leave because they fear that after normalizing relations, Mr. Obama will do away with migratory policies that give Cubans special status in the United States.
但古巴外交部长布鲁诺·罗德里格斯(Bruno Rodríguez)对这种赋权予古巴人民的言论嗤之以鼻，并将大批古巴人的离开归咎于华盛顿。很多古巴人曾经表示，他们之所以争相离开古巴，是因为担心两国关系正常化之后，奥巴马会废除给予古巴人在美特殊身份的移民政策。