MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — The little spacecraft that could may still have some life left in it.
加利福尼亚州山景市——也许，这架小型航天器还有一些寿命。
Hearts were broken around the lonely cosmos in the spring when a critical wheel on NASA’s Kepler spacecraft got stuck, leaving its telescope unable to point precisely enough to continue prospecting for Earthlike planets in a starry patch of the Milky Way. But Kepler’s managers say they have a plan that could keep it hunting for these exoplanets for three or four more years.
今年春季，这个孤独的宇宙伤心欲绝，因为美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的开普勒(Kepler)航天器的一个关键轮子被卡住，致使它的望远镜无法足够精确地定向，继续在银河系的星空中寻找类地行星。但开普勒项目的负责人表示，他们制定了一个计划，能使开普勒在三到四年的时间里继续搜寻外部行星。
“K2: The story begins,” Steve Howell, Kepler’s deputy project scientist, told a recent gathering of astronomers here at NASA’s Ames Research Center, borrowing the name of the world’s second-highest mountain to herald the proposed mission.
日前，开普勒项目次席科学家史蒂夫·豪厄尔(Steve Howell)告诉聚集在NASA艾姆斯研究中心(Ames Research Center)的一些天文学家，“K2（乔戈里峰，也称K2——译注）：故事开始了。”他借用了世界第二高峰的名字，宣告提议任务的开启。
In its four years of monitoring the brightness of each of 160,000 stars in one patch of sky, Kepler identified 3,500 possible exoplanets by seeing stars dim when planets crossed in front of them. It also enabled the first rough estimate of the abundance of habitable planets in the Milky Way: about one in five sunlike stars have potentially habitable Earth-size planets, meaning billions of chances for the existence of E.T. Not to mention how it revolutionized the understanding of the internal structures of the stars themselves through the practice of “astroseisemology.”
在四年的时间里，开普勒对一片天空中16万颗恒星的亮度进行监测，由此确认了3500个潜在的外部行星，因为行星掠过这些恒星的时候，恒星的亮度会减弱。此外，开普勒帮助相关人员首次粗略估计了银河系宜居行星的数量：大约五分之一的类日恒星可能有地球大小的宜居行星，这意味着外星人存在的可能性非常大。更不必说，开普勒还通过应用“星震学”彻底改变了人们对恒星内部结构的了解。
But the little spacecraft was only beginning to zero in on planets with orbits analogous to our own, Earth-size worlds that take a year to orbit suns similar to our own, candidates for Earth 2.0, in the vernacular. K2 would no longer train Kepler on only one set of stars. Instead, it would skip around the sky, monitoring the stars in one spot continuously for up to 80 days.
但这个小型航天器只是刚开始对准那些轨道及大小与地球相似的行星，这些行星围绕与类日恒星运行一圈需要一年的时间，说白了就是第二个地球的候选行星。K2计划不会再让开普勒固定瞄准一组恒星，而会让它在天空中移动，在最多80天的时间里持续观察某个区域的恒星。
Over such an interval, Kepler could not detect any planets with orbital periods more than a few weeks. But it could detect planets with habitable orbits around the smaller, dimmer stars known as red dwarfs. For such stars, the temperate orbital regions, or Goldilocks zones — where the surface temperatures on a planet are mild enough for liquid water — are closer and thus have shorter orbital periods.
在这样的时间段里，开普勒无法探测到轨道周期超过几周的行星。但它能够探测到位于较小、较暗的恒星，也就是红矮星周围的宜居带上的行星。此类恒星周边的温和轨道区域——亦即适居带(Goldilocks zone)，带内行星的地表温度适中，允许液态水存在——距离恒星较近，因此拥有较短的轨道周期。
“There are niches where we can deliver small planets,” said Dr. Howell, noting that K2 would cover five to 10 times as much of the sky as the original Kepler survey and could discover hundreds of planets around the red dwarfs.
豪厄尔博士表示，“有那么一些小块区域，我们可能会在那里发现小行星。”他指出，K2的观测范围是开普勒最初勘测计划的五到十倍大，有可能在红矮星附近找到数百个行星。
Kepler was launched in March 2009 after a decades-long battle by its originator and prime scientist, William Borucki of NASA’s Ames Research Center, to show that planets could be detected this way.
经过数十年的努力，NASA艾姆斯研究中心开普勒项目创始人兼首席科学家威廉·博鲁茨基(William Borucki)证明可以通过此种方式探测行星，在此之后，开普勒于2009年3月发射升空。
Its original field of view, 160,000 stars on the border of the constellations Cygnus and Lyra in the thick of the Milky Way, was chosen to a provide as large a sample as possible of sunlike stars for a cosmic census of exoplanets. To do this, Kepler had to be able to point precisely and stably enough to keep all these stars on the same pixels of its camera for four years.
开普勒的最初视场之所以设定为银河系深处天鹅座和天琴座交界处的16万颗恒星，为的是给有关外部行星的宇宙普查提供尽可能多的类日恒星实例。为此，开普勒需要准确且稳定地定向，以便在四年的时间里以同样的精度观测将这些恒星。
The loss of a second reaction wheel — Kepler was launched with four — left the spacecraft prone to rolling about its telescope’s line of sight, especially when its solar panels, which wrap halfway around the telescope like a cape, are unevenly illuminated by sunlight.
坏掉两个反应轮之后（开普勒原有四个），这台航天器的望远镜就容易瞄不准目标，特别是在像披肩一样包了望远镜半圈的太阳能电池板受热不均的时候。
That, unfortunately, is the case when Kepler points at Cygnus. Light exerts pressure, which is why comets have tails. “The sun, unfortunately, continues to shine,” said Charles Sobeck, deputy project manager of Kepler, and the uneven solar illumination makes the spacecraft roll and unable to keep stars on the right pixels. Through all of this, the telescope and detector remained unscathed, making it a valuable astronomical resource already in space. In response to a call for ideas about how to make use of Kepler, astronomers submitted 42 white papers.
不幸的是，开普勒指向天鹅座时就发生了这种情况。光会产生压力，这便是彗星拖尾的原因。“不幸的是，太阳仍在发光，”开普勒的副项目经理查尔斯·索贝克(Charles Sobeck)说。不均匀的光照度会让它发生旋转，无法使恒星观测结果保持在正确的精度。虽然发生了种种情况，但望远镜和探测器仍然正常，所以它仍然是一个有价值的天文资源。为了响应征询开普勒利用方法的呼吁，天文学家们提交了42份白皮书。
The solution was a neat bit of rocket science. Tests have shown sunlight can be used to stabilize Kepler. The key is to keep it pointed in directions that leave its solar panels evenly illuminated. “When it’s stable, it’s really stable,” Mr. Sobeck said.As a result, Kepler’s planet hunting will now be limited to fields of stars that lie along a circle known as the ecliptic — the path traversed by the sun through the zodiac.
最终的解决方案巧妙地利用了航天器科学。测试表明，阳光可以被用来稳定开普勒，关键是让它一直指着能使太阳能电池板均匀受热的方向。“稳定下来之后，它就会一直稳定，”索贝克说。所以，原用于追踪行星的开普勒目前只能用于观测黄道沿线的恒星周边区域。黄道就是太阳穿过黄道带的路径。
Mr. Sobeck said giving up the original field of view was a big hurdle. “After four years that was emotionally difficult.”
索贝克说，放弃最初的视场曾是一个很大的障碍。“它已经存在了四年，放弃让人在情感上无法接受。”
The reward will be variety, as well as a new lease on life. Part of the sun’s path goes right across the center of the galaxy, in the constellation Sagittarius, and other parts, away from the Milky Way, cross outside galaxies, where Kepler could record the rise and fall of supernova explosions that have proved critical to understanding cosmic history. Other fields of opportunity include stormy regions strewn with clouds of gas and dust where new stars and presumably new planets are being born, so Kepler, if the plan goes through, will be able to study stars and planets in a variety of environments.
回报将是多种多样的，而且还会延长它的使用寿命。太阳的部分路径刚好在射手座穿过星系中心，远离银河系的部分路径则穿过外部星系，开普勒可以在此记录超新星爆炸的全部过程。事实证明，这对理解宇宙历史至关重要。其他可能带来发现的地方包括一些布满气云和尘云的不宁静区域，这些地方正在出现新的恒星，可想而知还有新的行星；所以，如果计划顺利完成，开普勒就能在各种不同的环境中研究恒星和行星。
For now, however, K2 is only a proposal, still being tested. The idea has to pass muster with NASA’s astrophysics division and then survive a review at NASA, in a sort of bake-off with other needy projects.
然而，K2目前只是个处于测试阶段的提议。这个想法必须通过NASA天体物理学部门的检测，还得通过NASA的审核，与其他紧迫项目展开竞争。
The final decision on Kepler’s fate will come next spring. Regardless of the answer, the Kepler team will go on. The scientists have three more years of work to analyze the data that has already been obtained, including the whole last year of the spacecraft’s observations, which Mr. Borucki characterized in a news conference as “the most valuable data we have.”
有关部门将于明年春季对开普勒的命运作出最终决定。不管答案如何，开普勒团队都将继续工作。这些科学家还有三年的工作时间来分析已经获得的数据，其中包括开普勒去年一整年的观测结果，博鲁茨基在一次新闻发布会中称之为“我们手中最有价值的数据。”
Mr. Sobeck is hopeful for more. “Nobody wants to turn off a spacecraft in orbit,” he said.
对于开普勒，索贝克有更多的期望。他说，“没人愿意关掉在轨道中运行的航天器。”