TOKYO — Since August, when the Chinese mobile phone maker Xiaomi lured away a top Google executive, Hugo Barra, to oversee its international expansion plans, two big questions remained: When and where would Xiaomi turn its attention?
东京——今年8月，中国手机制造商小米成功挖走了谷歌(Google)高管雨果·巴拉(Hugo Barra)，让他来负责小米公司的国际扩张计划。当时涌现的两个大问题至今未有答案：小米将从何时开始转移其注意力？又将把注意力转向何处？
Over the weekend, the company provided some clues.
上周末，小米透露了一些线索。
At a media event in Taiwan, Xiaomi executives, including Mr. Barra, said the company planned to set up shop in Southeast Asia early next year. When pressed for details, the company’s press office said Singapore and Malaysia would be the first markets in the region to get Xiaomi phones.
巴拉等小米高管在台湾的一次新闻发布会上说，公司计划于明年初在东南亚设立零售店。人们追问细节之时，小米的新闻办公室表示，新加坡和马来西亚将成为该地区第一批发售小米手机的市场。
So far, Xiaomi’s only major forays outside mainland China have been into Taiwan and Hong Kong. There, the company has stirred up considerable interest. On Monday in Taiwan, a “flash sale” on the Internet of 10,000 of the company’s Hongmi phones sold out in less than 10 minutes, the company said.
目前，小米在中国大陆之外进军的主要市场只有台湾和香港，并在这两个地方赢得了相当大的关注。小米公司表示，周一在台湾进行网络“限时抢购”时，该公司的1万台红米手机不到10分钟就被抢购一空。
Xiaomi has generated considerable attention because of the company’s marketing savvy, with some analysts comparing the hype that surrounds the brand and its founder, Lei Jun, to the excitement that accompanies anything related to Apple and its former chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, in the United States.
由于公司营销到位，小米引来了很大的关注；有些分析师还把小米品牌及其创始人雷军的大出风头与美国苹果公司(Apple)及苹果前首席执行官史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)所引起的兴奋之情相提并论。
Yet Xiaomi’s phones are considerably cheaper. The Hongmi, for example, is priced at 3,999 Taiwan dollars, or about $135. For cost-conscious consumers in mainland China, the difference is especially stark — Apple iPhones list at $750 or more.
但是，小米手机比苹果便宜得多。例如，一部红米手机的定价仅为3999台币（799元人民币），也即135美元左右。对于中国大陆那些在意价格的消费者而言，这个差别尤其明显——苹果iPhone的价格在750美元以上。
For these and other reasons, Xiaomi has quickly built a following. Still, its market share in recent quarters in China has hovered at around 5 percent — substantially below the leader, Samsung Electronics, but rivaling Apple. Xiaomi executives have said the company is on track to sell 19 million phones this year and plans to have twice as many sales next year.
由于前述及其他一些原因，小米很快就赢得了一批拥趸。然而，它最近几个季度在中国所占市场份额仍然徘徊在5%左右——比市场份额最大的三星电子(Samsung Electronics)低很多，但却与苹果不相上下。小米高管表示，公司今年将售出1900万台手机，明年还计划把销量增加一倍。
Xiaomi has benefited from the chaos of the Chinese mobile business. The company has sought to bring some order, integrating its hardware with an attractive content and software offering. Xiaomi’s phones use the Android operating system, developed by Google, but Google’s mobile application store, Google Play, is not officially available in China. That leaves plenty of room for alternative app stores and other content providers.
小米受益于中国移动业务的混乱。小米公司试图对其进行些许整顿，在自己的硬件中融入了颇具吸引力的内容和软件服务。小米手机用的是谷歌(Google)开发的Android操作系统，但在中国，Android系统用户无法通过官方渠道使用谷歌的移动应用商店Google Play。这为其他应用商店和内容提供商留下了大量空间。
Yet analysts wonder whether Xiaomi can be equally successful abroad. For starters, competition will be fierce. In addition to giants like Samsung, other Chinese smartphone makers like Lenovo and Huawei have big plans for markets like Southeast Asia.
然而，一些分析人士怀疑小米无法在国外取得同样的成功。对新来者而言，竞争将很激烈。除了三星之类的巨头以外，中国的其他智能手机生产商，比如联想和华为，也对东南亚这样的市场有着宏大的计划。
Mobile app stores like Google Play and Apple’s App Store are more established outside China, making one of Xiaomi’s big selling points less attractive unless it comes up with must-have content.
在中国之外的地方，诸如Google Play和App Store这样的移动应用商店都更成熟，这导致小米的一个主要卖点变得不那么有吸引力，除非它添上必不可少的内容。
“It may not be easy for Xiaomi to replicate its success in China,” said Melissa Chau, an analyst at IDC.
“对小米来说，要复制在国内取得的成功可能并非易事，”国际数据公司(IDC)的分析师梅丽莎·曹(Melissa Chau)说。
Xiaomi has also been willing to sell phones at low prices in order to get people to buy its content. This effectively amounts to subsidizing phone sales — something Chinese network operators are reluctant to do. Elsewhere, subsidies are more prevalent.
小米愿意低价出售手机，目的之一也是让人们购买自己的内容。这实际上相当于补贴手机销售，中国网络运营商不愿这么做，其他地方的补贴销售却比较普遍。
But Xiaomi executives in Taiwan signaled that they would remain flexible, adapting their business model as needed.
不过，小米高管已在台湾释放信号，他们将保持灵活性，并在必要时调整业务模式。
“In some countries, carriers act like they do in Taiwan,” Mr. Barra said at a news conference, according to the website Tech in Asia. “They’re in the business of selling phones and offering subsidies. In other countries they’re not. So our strategy will vary a little bit from country to country.”
据亚洲科技(Tech in Asia)网站称，巴拉在新闻发布会上说，“在有些国家，运营商的策略和台湾的一样。他们在卖手机时会提供补贴。而在其他一些国家，运营商不这么做。因此，我们的策略会根据国家的不同而稍有不同。”