NASA’s planet-hunting Kepler spacecraft has been shut down by the failure of one of the reaction wheels that keep it pointed, the space agency announced Wednesday.
美国国家航空航天局(NASA)周三宣布，因为用于固定位置的一个反作用轮出现故障，探测行星的开普勒(Kepler)望远镜已经关机。
“I wouldn’t call Kepler down and out yet,” said John Grunsfeld, a former astronaut and Hubble repairman who is NASA’s associate administrator for space science, at a news conference.
“目前我还不会说，开普勒退役了，”前宇航员约翰·格伦斯菲尔德(John Grunsfeld)在新闻发布会上说。他曾是哈勃(Hubble)望远镜的维修员，现在是NASA负责空间科学的副局长。
But he and others said that if engineers could not restore the wheel or find some other way to keep the spacecraft’s telescope precisely pointed, the failure could end one of the most romantic and successful of NASA’s missions: the search for Earth-like planets in habitable orbits around other stars. Just last month, astronomers reported that Kepler had found two planets, only slightly larger than Earth, orbiting a star 1,200 light-years from here in the Goldilocks zone, where liquid water is possible.
但他以及其他一些人表示，如果工程师无法修复那个反作用轮，或是找到其他办法来精确固定航天器望远镜的位置，这个故障就可能让NASA最浪漫、最成功的任务之一画上句句号。开普勒的使命是在其他恒星周围的可居住轨道上寻找和地球类似的行星。就在上月，天文学家还报告称开普勒发现了两颗行星，这两颗行星略大于地球，绕着一颗距地球1200光年的适居带(Goldilocks zone)恒星运行。适居带是指液态水可能存在的区域。
More potentially habitable planets, even smaller and more Earth-like, lurk in the pipeline, astronomers say, but have not yet been confirmed. “We believe there are planets there that we haven’t found yet,” said William Borucki of NASA’s Ames Research Center, the founder and leader of the Kepler effort.
天文学家称，宇宙中还隐藏着更多可能适合居住的行星，它们的体积更小，更像地球，但还没有得到证实。“我们相信，还有一些我们尚未发现的行星，”NASA艾姆斯研究中心(Ames Research Center)开普勒项目创始人兼负责人威廉·博鲁茨基(William Borucki)说。
As word leaked about the possible loss of Kepler, the mood in the astronomical community was grim. “It was one of those things that was a gift to humanity,” said one astronomer, who spoke on condition of anonymity before NASA made the news public. “We’re all going to lose, for sure.”
可能失去开普勒望远镜的消息传开之后，天文学界一片愁云惨雾。“它是赠给全人类的礼物之一，”一名要求在NASA公布消息之前匿名的天文学家说。“肯定的，我们所有人都会觉得失落。”
Kepler, launched in March 2009, orbits the sun at roughly the same distance as Earth. Its mission is to determine the fraction of stars in the galaxy that harbor Earth-like planets by carrying out a survey of some 150,000 stars in the constellations of Cygnus and Lyra, looking for the dips in starlight caused by planets passing, or transiting, in front of their suns. The spacecraft has identified 130 planets and 2,740 other candidates. About 230 are the size of Earth, and 820 others are only twice as big as Earth and are probably rocky worlds similar to our own, Mr. Borucki said.
2009年3月发射升空的开普勒望远镜环绕太阳运行，它和太阳之间的距离大致与地球同太阳之间的距离相同。它的任务是对天鹅座(Cygnus)和天琴座(Lyra)的大约15万颗恒星展开调查，寻找行星掠过所环绕恒星时导致的星光衰减，以便探明拥有类地行星的恒星在银河系中所占比例。博鲁茨基表示，开普勒望远镜已经确认了130颗行星和2740个可能符合条件的天体，其中大约230个大小和地球相同，另外820颗仅为地球的两倍大，而且很可能是与我们所在的地球类似的岩石星球。
Kepler’s mission has cost $600 million so far. It was designed to operate for four years, but last year it was extended three more years, until 2016.
迄今为止，开普勒项目已耗资6亿美元（约合37亿元人民币）。它原本计划运行四年，但又在去年延长了三年，至2016年结束。
Since the Earth transits the Sun only once a year, two more years would give astronomers a chance to see more transits of the planets they are looking for, ones with orbits similar to our own. Without the extra time, the data will be noisy, astronomers say, so the answer will be a little more uncertain than it might have been. Geoffrey Marcy, a Kepler astronomer at the University of California, Berkeley, said that without more data coming from Kepler, he thought astronomers would be “right on the edge” of answering the question of how common other Earths are, but with less statistical certainty than originally desired.
一年之中，地球凌日的现象只出现一次，这样一来，多两年的时间会让天文学家有机会看到更多他们正在寻找的行星掠过所环绕恒星的时刻，那些行星的轨道和我们地球的轨道类似。天文学家表示，如果失去了原有的额外时间，数据将是噪声数据，答案也会比原来模糊一些。参与开普勒项目的加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)天文学家杰弗里·马西(Geoffrey Marcy)表示，他认为，如果不能从开普勒望远镜得到更多数据，天文学家也能“大致”回答和地球类似的行星有多普遍这个问题，但统计学上的确定性却比不上最初希望的那么高。
In January, engineers noticed that one of the reaction wheels that keep the spacecraft pointed was experiencing too much friction. They shut down the spacecraft for a couple of weeks to give it a rest, in the hope that the wheel’s lubricant would spread out and solve the problem. But when they turned it back on, the friction was still there. Until now, the problem had not interfered with observations, but on Tuesday, the spacecraft went into a so-called safe mode, and the engineers determined that the reaction wheel had stopped.
1月份，工程师注意到保持该望远镜定向的一个反作用轮磨损严重。他们将飞行器关停了几周，让它得到休息，希望该反作用轮的润滑剂能散开，修复这一问题。但是，当他们重新启动飞行器时，磨损依然存在。到现在为止，这一问题还没有影响到观察，但飞行器在周二进入了所谓的安全模式，工程师由此断定，反作用轮停止了工作。
Kepler was launched with four reaction wheels, but one failed last year after showing signs of erratic friction. Three wheels are required to keep Kepler properly and precisely aimed, and now there are only two. The lack of three working wheels probably robs it of the ability to point precisely enough to detect Earth-size planets.
开普勒升空时有四个反作用轮，去年却有一个在出现不正常磨损迹象之后停止工作。开普勒需要有三个轮子才能保持准确定位，现在只剩下两个。正常工作的轮子如果不到三个，很可能会让它无法足够准确地定位，探测像地球一样大小的行星。
Project managers hope to remedy the situation by rocking the wheel back and forth, or perhaps resurrecting the wheel that failed last year, an effort that will probably take several months, according to Kepler’s deputy project manager, Charles Sobeck of the Ames Research Center. It would take that long as well to figure out what else the telescope, which is itself in fine condition, can be used for if it can no longer hunt planets.
开普勒项目第二负责人、来自艾姆斯研究中心的查尔斯·索贝克(Charles Sobeck )认为，项目负责人希望能通过前后摇动轮子来修复这种情况，或者是修复去年停止工作的那个轮子，这可能需要几个月时间。如果这个主体完好的太空望远镜不能再搜寻行星，要为它想出其他用途也需要花同样长的时间。
Mr. Borucki said that the Kepler project had been a long journey — and a phenomenal success — and that he was not ready to pronounce it over. When Kepler was conceived, he said, nobody knew if any other stars had planets; now we know that almost every star in the galaxy has a planet and that the nearest exoplanet might be only 10 light-years away. “I’m delighted and surprised with what we have done,” he said.
博鲁茨基称，开普勒项目是个长期过程，也是一个巨大的成功，他还没有做好宣布它结束的准备。他说，开普勒还在设想阶段时，谁也不知道其他恒星是否也有行星；现在我们知道，银河系几乎每一颗恒星都有一个行星，而且最近的太阳系外行星离我们可能只有10光年。他说，“对于我们已经取得的成果，我感到惊喜。”
For Mr. Grunsfeld, who played mechanic to the Hubble telescope during several lengthy spacewalks, the Kepler malfunction looked particularly frustrating. “Unfortunately, it’s not in a place where I can go and fix it,” he said.
格伦斯菲尔德曾通过几次长时间的太空行走对哈勃望远镜进行维修，对他来说，开普勒的故障显得特别令人沮丧。他说，“不幸的是，我不能去它所在的地方进行维修。”