CAIRO — Five small bombs exploded around Egypt’s capital within two hours on Wednesday, injuring six people in the first such attacks since the election of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi this month.
开罗——周三，首都开罗不同地点两小时内发生了五起规模较小的爆炸事件，致使六人受伤。这是阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)本月当选总统以来首次发生此类袭击事件。
Mr. Sisi, the former general who led the military ouster of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood last summer, had campaigned as the only one who could restore stability after a wave of protests and violence against the government in reaction to the takeover. Wednesday’s explosions, which punctured a period of relative calm before and after the election, were a reminder that the job is not done.
塞西曾是军方将领，去年夏天领导军队罢黜了出自穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的前总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。塞西在竞选过程中宣传自己是唯一能在埃及恢复稳定的人物，此前埃及发生了一连串反政府的示威活动和暴力事件，抗议军方接管政权。周三的爆炸事件打破了竞选前后一段时间里的相对平静，也显示出赛西尚未完成任务。
No one was killed, and Egyptian officials described all five bombs as primitive. Four were detonated in metro stations in different neighborhoods in the northeast district of Cairo. The fifth exploded under a car in a square in the neighborhood of Heliopolis, outside a courthouse where 23 demonstrators who were arrested recently during a march calling for the right to hold street protests were headed to trial.
爆炸中无人死亡。埃及官员形容，五颗炸弹都很原始，其中四颗是在开罗东北部不同社区的地铁站中引爆的。第五颗炸弹藏于车下，是在赫利奥波利斯(Heliopolis)社区的一座广场上引爆的。爆炸地点在一所法庭外。最近有示威者游行，呼吁民众有权举行街头抗议，23名示威者在游行中被捕，他们将在这所法庭受审。
The explosion in the square damaged several vehicles. But traffic on the metro lines soon returned to normal. Television coverage showed police dogs in the area, presumably sniffing for more bombs.
广场上发生的这起爆炸损坏了多辆汽车，不过地铁线路的运转很快就恢复正常。电视新闻中播放了警犬在附近区域嗅探的画面，应该是在寻找更多的炸弹。
The timing of the explosions suggested that they were coordinated, but no one claimed responsibility.
爆炸发生的时间表明事先经过了策划，不过还没有人宣称对事件负责。
The Interior Ministry immediately sought to blame the violence on the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group that backed Mr. Morsi and is still calling for his reinstatement. The new military-backed government has declared the Brotherhood a terrorist organization and outlawed it. On Wednesday, the Interior Ministry released pictures depicting what it called “the interruption of an attempt by the terrorist Muslim Brotherhood organization to smuggle equipment that is used in acts of violence.”
埃及内政部(Interior Ministry)立即把暴行的责任指向了穆斯林兄弟会。穆兄会支持穆尔西，至今仍在要求让穆尔西官复原职。军方支持的新政府宣称穆兄会为恐怖组织，并已颁布法令予以取缔。周三，内政部公布了一些照片。内政部形容，照片的内容显示了“穆兄会恐怖组织试图走私用于暴力行动的装备，但遭到阻拦”的情形。
Since the takeover last summer, the police have detained more than 16,000 people for protesting or otherwise opposing the new government. On Sunday, a Cairo court sentenced three journalists to at least seven years in prison on charges of “abetting and joining a terrorist organization,” which is understood to mean the Muslim Brotherhood.
自去年夏天军方接管政权以来，警方已经因举行示威或以其他方式反对新政府，关押了超过1.6万人。周日，开罗一家法院判处三名记者至少七年监禁，罪名是“怂恿和加入恐怖组织”，措辞暗指穆兄会。
In a speech on Tuesday, President Sisi promised that the security and stability of Egypt was the responsibility of the Army and the police, “not just in Egypt, but in the whole region.”
在周二的一场演讲中，埃及总统塞西承诺，维护埃及的安全和稳定是军队和警方的责任，“不仅是在埃及，在整个地区都是如此。”