FERGUSON, Mo. — The white police officer a grand jury declined to indict last week in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager has resigned from the this city’s Police Department, his lawyer said on Saturday night.
密苏里州弗格森——大陪审团上周拒绝对一位白人警官就枪杀一名没有武器的黑人少年做出起诉，该警官的律师周六晚说，此人已从镇警察局辞职。
The officer, Darren Wilson, who had worked in this department since 2011, submitted a resignation letter, said Neil J. Bruntrager, the lawyer. In the letter, first published in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Mr. Wilson said: “It was my hope to continue in police work, but the safety of other police officers and the community are of paramount importance to me. It is my hope that my resignation will allow the community to heal.”
律师尼尔·J·布兰特瑞吉尔(Neil J. Bruntrager)说，警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)自2011起一直在警察局工作，他已递交了辞呈。该信由《圣路易斯邮报》首先公布，威尔逊在信中说：“我曾希望能继续从事警察工作，但其他警员以及社区的安全对我来说具有至高无上的重要性。希望我的辞职将让社会愈合。”
For months, some here had called for Mr. Wilson, 28, to step down or be fired following the killing of Michael Brown and the unrest that followed, in August and then again last Monday, after the grand jury decision was announced.
几个月来，当地有些人一直要求28岁的威尔逊辞职或被除名，这种呼声始于迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)在八月被枪杀、引发骚乱之后，在大陪审团的决定于上周一宣布后，呼声再起。
Adolphus Pruitt, of the N.A.A.C.P.’s St. Louis chapter, said the resignation “not only fulfills one of the demands of the protesters, but also provides for one of the steps necessary for the wholesale reconstructions of law enforcement in Ferguson.”
美国全国有色人种协进会(NAACP)圣路易斯分会的阿道弗斯·普瑞特(Adolphus Pruitt)表示，辞职“不仅满足了示威者的要求，而且为大规模重组弗格森执法机构提供了所需的必要步骤之一。”
Yet on Saturday night, as protesters gathered near the police station here, as they have on most nights since Mr. Brown’s death, many seemed unsatisfied with the news, which they said was inevitable. “We want an indictment and we’re still going to stand for that,” said Alicia Street, 29, who lives in nearby Florissant.
然而在周六晚，随着抗议者像他们在布朗死后的大多数晚上所做的那样，在这里的警察局附近聚集，很多人似乎对这条消息并不满意，他们表示那是不可避免的。“我们要一份起诉书，我们仍坚持这一点，”29岁的艾丽西亚·斯惴特(Alicia Street)说，她住在附近的弗洛里森特。
Late on Saturday night, there were reports of shots fired near the police station, sending the authorities speeding along South Florissant Road. A short time later, officers appeared to be searching for bullet casings in front of City Hall, as National Guard soldiers, their rifles visible, protected the building.
周六夜间晚些时候，有报道称警察局附近听到枪声，这让当局派警车快速进入弗洛里森特南路。不久后，警察看来正在市政厅前搜寻弹壳，同时，国民警卫队士兵在保护这座大楼，他们携带的步枪明显可见。
It was not clear whether the reported gunfire was related to Saturday’s protests. 
目前尚不清楚枪声的报道是否与周六的抗议活动有关。
Earlier in the day, about 100 marchers led by the N.A.A.C.P. set off from the street where Mr. Brown was killed on a weeklong walk to Missouri’s Capitol, 120 miles from this fractured city. They invoked the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s 1965 march in Selma, Ala., the Freedom Rides and other civil rights-era pilgrimages for justice.
当天早些时候，NAACP领导的大约100名示威者，从布朗被枪杀的那条街道出发，向密苏里州议会所在地开始了为期一周的徒步游行，议会大厦距这座破碎的城市有120英里(约合190公里)。他们的做法让人想起了牧师马丁·路德·金博士1965年领导的向阿拉巴马州塞尔玛的徒步游行、自由乘车运动(Freedom Rides)，以及公民权利时代的其他为正义而战的行动。
The group sang as it made its way up West Florissant Avenue, past the burned-out husks of an auto-parts store, a beauty parlor and other businesses destroyed in the chaos after the grand jury’s decision. A trumpeter played “We Shall Overcome.”
游行的队伍在弗洛里森特西大街一路走、一路唱，沿途经过了被烧毁的一家汽车配件店和一家美容院，以及在大陪审团决定宣布后的混乱中被捣毁的其他商店。一名小号手演奏了“我们一定会胜利”的曲子。
“It’s going to communicate that black lives are important, that police officers are here to protect us,” said Mary Ratliff, the N.A.A.C.P.’s Missouri president, who walked near the head of the line. “We are here to say we’ll no longer stand for this.”
全国有色人种协进会密苏里州分会会长玛丽·拉特利夫(Mary Ratliff)走在游行队伍的前列，她说，“这是为了向人们传递信息：黑人的性命是重要的，警察是该保护我们的，我们是来说，我们将不再容忍这种事的发生。”
On Saturday, for the first time since the unrest, West Florissant was left open to traffic and pedestrians in the evening, as National Guard soldiers and police officers stood watch. The decision to leave the street open after dusk was made with little fanfare.
自从骚乱发生以来，弗洛里森特西大街在周六晚间首次向车辆和行人开放，国民警卫队士兵和警察在街道两边执勤。黄昏后开放街道的决定是悄然做出的。
During the march, police cruisers crept along with the crowd, and organizers exhorted the line to keep a tight formation. The marchers paused to speak with a woman standing along the side of the road whose antiques store had been destroyed in the looting and arsons. When the marchers raised their arms into the warm November afternoon and shouted, “Hands up, don’t shoot!” two little girls watching from their front yard did the same, before ducking into their garage.
游行过程中，警察的巡逻车随着人群缓缓而行，组织者告诫人们保持紧密的队形。有的游行者停下来与站在路边一个古玩店女店主说话，她的商店遭抢劫、被人放火烧毁。当游行者在11月的这个温暖下午举起了双臂大喊，“举起手来，不要开枪！”时，两个小女孩在自己的前院里也学着人们的样子做，然后她们躲进自家的车库。
“It’s not a color thing,” said Carlos Carter, 41, who was taking a week off from his job as a barber to make the trip to the capital, Jefferson City. “We want to see everybody’s kids grow up and thrive, give everybody their chance.”
“这不只是事关肤色，”41岁的卡洛斯·卡特(Carlos Carter)说，他是一位理发师，为了参加向州府杰斐逊城游行的活动请了一周假。“我们想看到所有人的孩子长大成人、茁壮成长，让所有的人得到自己的机会。”
The march was part of demonstrations here and across the nation touching on police tactics, race and poverty that are stretching toward a second week since the grand jury’s decision.
这次游行是当地和全国各地的示威活动的一部分，针对的是警察执法方式、种族问题，以及贫困问题，示威活动已进入了大陪审团宣布决定后的第二周。
More than 100 protesters marched through a shopping plaza in the affluent St. Louis suburb of Brentwood, lying on the ground in a “die-in” to represent Mr. Brown’s shooting. As they marched along the sidewalk, they were shadowed by dozens of police officers.
有一百多名示威者在富裕的圣路易斯郊区布伦特伍德的一个购物广场抗议，他们躺在地上以“静死”来表示布朗的被枪杀。当他们沿着人行道行进时，有数十名警察跟在他们的后边。
At the memorial to Mr. Brown near the Canfield Green apartments in Ferguson, dozens of motorcyclists swirled through the streets in a show of solidarity. Outside the St. Louis County Courthouse in Clayton, where the grand jury had met, more than 100 protesters circled in silence.
在弗格森坎菲尔德绿地公寓附近的布朗纪念碑周围，几十个摩托车手在街上骑摩托绕圈，以示团结。在位于克莱顿的圣路易斯县法院外，100多名抗议者在沉默中绕圈行走，大陪审团曾在这里开会。