FERGUSON, Mo. — Relative calm returned to the St. Louis region on Tuesday night, but the situation remained tense and uncertain as people angry over a grand jury decision not to indict a white police officer for killing an unarmed black teenager entered into renewed skirmishes with the police.
密苏里州弗格森——虽然圣路易斯市的这个地区在周二夜晚恢复了相对的平静，但紧张和不确定的局势仍在继续，人们对一个大陪审团未就一名手无寸铁的黑人少年被杀而起诉一个白人警官的决定怒火未消，与警方再度发生小规模冲突。
As the Missouri National Guard bolstered its presence and the police became more assertive with protesters and provocateurs on the streets, law enforcement officials effectively squashed much of the chaos from a night earlier. On Monday, dozens of fires burned, gunshots rang out and businesses were looted.
随着更多密苏里州国民警卫队的到来，以及警方更坚决地处理街头的示威和挑衅，执法人员基本上平息了前一天晚上的动乱。周一夜里，这里燃起了几十场大火、枪声阵阵、商店遭抢劫。
Still, a few flare-ups occurred on the second night, including the shattering of the Ferguson City Hall’s windows and the flipping and wrecking of a police vehicle parked outside. The authorities said they had made 45 arrests overnight, including seven for felonies. They used tear gas once — to stop the ruckus in front of City Hall. Only a few gunshots were fired, the police said, and two fires were reported: one at a Walgreens and the other a car set ablaze near the memorial in Ferguson for Michael Brown, the teenager who was shot.
然而，周二夜里仍发生了一些暴力事件，包括弗格森市政厅的玻璃被打碎，市政厅外面停着的一辆警车被推翻捣毁。当局表示，他们在夜间逮捕了45人，其中7人是因为较重的罪行。警方只使用了一次催泪瓦斯，那是为了平息市政厅前的骚动。警方表示，只听到少数的枪声，只有两起火灾的报告，一起是在一家沃尔格林(Walgreens)店，另一起是在弗格森纪念被枪杀少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的纪念碑附近，有一辆汽车被纵火焚烧。
“I think, generally, it was a much better night,” the St. Louis County police chief, Jon Belmar, said. Then, referring to the previous night’s unrest, he added, “That was a scale that, fortunately, is seldom seen here in this country.”
“我认为，总的来说，这一夜相当不错，”圣路易斯县警察局长乔恩·贝尔马尔(Jon Belmar)说。然后，他提到前一天夜里的骚乱时补充说，“幸运的是，那种规模在这里、在这个国家很少见。”
But testy exchanges throughout the night on Tuesday suggest that the area might not yet be in the clear in the coming Thanksgiving holiday, which could bring more people to the region.
但是，周二整夜的愤怒冲突意味着，该地区在感恩节假期里的未来也许并不明确，节日可能会让更多的人前来该地区。
The area has faced much unrest since August, when Mr. Brown was shot and killed by Officer Darren Wilson. For many, the case laid bare myriad issues of racial inequality that linger in the region and in the country. And when the St. Louis County prosecutor announced on Monday that a grand jury did not indict Officer Wilson, many saw it as yet another injustice for blacks.
这个地区自8月以来经历了许多动荡，布朗是在8月初被警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)枪杀的。对许多人来说，这个案子把该地区、乃至全国仍存在的众多种族不平等的问题暴露无遗。当圣路易斯县检察官周一宣布，大陪审团决定不起诉威尔逊时，许多人将其看作是对黑人的又一次不公正。
The Ferguson Police Department, on a quaint commercial strip here, has become the central place to express that dissatisfaction.
位于一条古老商业街的弗格森警察局，已成为人们表达这种不满的中心地点。
For much of Tuesday night, law enforcement officials and protesters played a game of cat and mouse.
周二夜里的大部分时间，执法人员和示威者在玩着猫捉老鼠的游戏。
Protesters would edge into the street, only to be pushed back by officers in riot gear. The officers would eventually retreat, and the protesters would retake the street. Occasionally, a protester would pelt the officers with a firecracker or a plastic bottle, which would stir up the crowd and send people running for fear that the police would unleash tear gas in retaliation.
抗议者会慢慢进入街头，然后他们马上会被携带防暴设备的警察逼退。警察最终会退回原地，而抗议者则会再次进入街头。有时，某个抗议者会把爆竹或塑料瓶投向警察，这会让人群骚动，往远处跑，他们怕警察会释放催泪瓦斯作为报复。
A big change in front of the police station on Tuesday night was the presence of members of the National Guard, who lined up in riot gear to protect the building. They mostly hung back. But a team of troops also helped apprehend a few protesters and ended up wrestling some to the ground. Convoys of National Guard Humvees were seen driving around town.
周二晚上的一大变化是，警察局门前出现了国民警卫队队员，他们带着防暴设备来保护建筑物。大多数时候，他们只是站在后线。但是，一个小队也协助警方逮捕了几名示威者，包括把个别人摔倒在地。镇子里可以看到正在巡逻的国民警卫队悍马车队。
“In many ways, while it’s perhaps alarming to some folks, I think at the same time it’s probably comforting to some, because it allows us to gain that measure of control,” Chief Belmar said.
“这可能从许多方面来看，让一些人感到不安，但我觉得，这同时也可能让一些人感到安慰，因为国民警卫队的出现让我们能得到某种程度的控制，”警察局长贝尔马尔说。
But around 9:45 p.m., the situation at the police station grew volatile when a group of the protesters urged everyone to start marching north to see what was going on with a helicopter flying overhead.
但在晚上9点45分左右，警察局前的情况出现坏转，一群抗议者呼吁大家向北游行，去看一个上边有直升机盘旋的地方发生了什么事情。
They headed toward City Hall, chanting familiar refrains calling for justice. When they got there, several revelers rushed a police cruiser and smashed the windows with bricks. They then rocked it until it flipped over, and bystanders cheered.
他们向市政厅走去，喊着人们熟悉的呼吁正义的口号。当他们到了那里后，几个情绪激动的人冲向一辆警车，用砖头砸碎了车窗。然后，他们用力摇车，直到把车翻了个各，旁观者欢呼雀跃。
They eventually flipped it back over and tried to set it on fire. Small flames flared up, but the car was not engulfed.
他们后来把车翻了回来，并试图把其点燃。车身冒出了一些小火苗，但没有起大火。
Many police cruisers and armored vehicles quickly showed up. A short time later, the first and only tear gas canisters of the night were fired, sending people running, choking and coughing, with eyes burning and watering.
许多警察的巡逻车和装甲车很快到来。不久后，警方发射了当晚的第一次、也是唯一的一次催泪弹，被呛得喘不过气来的人开始向远处跑，他们咳嗽着，眼睛有烧感、被刺激得直流眼泪。
A firebomb, a Mason jar filled with a flammable liquid and topped with a cotton cloth as a wick, was found outside City Hall. Later, a group of young men shattered the windows of an auto repair shop and set off what appeared to be a firework inside.
警察在市政厅外发现了一个燃烧弹，还有一个装满易燃液体的玻璃瓶子，瓶子上盖着用作引火的棉布。后来，一群年轻人打破了一家汽车修理店的窗户，在店里点燃了似乎是烟花的东西。
Across town, the stretch of West Florissant Avenue that held the main protests over the summer was closed after several buildings were burned there on Monday night. Some buildings were still smoking, and it remained a crime scene, Chief Belmar said.
镇子另一边的弗洛里森特西大街的一段路是今年夏天抗议活动的主要场所，周一晚那里有许多建筑物被烧毁，那段路现处于封闭中。路边的一些建筑物仍在冒烟，此路段目前保留为一个犯罪现场，警察局长贝尔马尔说。
Throughout the night, rows of police officers and National Guard troops fanned out to lock down the avenue as tightly as the boarded-up stores along the street. Members of the Guard stood on street corners, cradling rifles.
整个夜间，警察和国民警卫队的队伍把这段路紧密封锁起来，沿街的店铺也都上了封板。国民警卫队队员手持步枪、站在街角。
From time to time, small groups of peaceful demonstrators strode across an intersection to confront law enforcement officials, shouting, “No justice, no peace!” They were turned back and dissipated after the police ordered them to get out of the street.
一小群和平示威者时不时地大步走到一个路口上，与执法人员对峙，他们高呼着，“没有正义，就没有和平！”在警察命令他们离开街道后，他们转身退去。
The tamer response came as Gov. Jay Nixon, who has been highly criticized for his handling of the unrest in Ferguson, called in additional National Guard troops.
这种颇为温顺的反应出现在杰伊·尼克松州长(Gov. Jay Nixon)调动了更多的国民警卫队之后，人们一直批评州长对弗格森动荡的处理。