FERGUSON, Mo. — The two police officers who were shot here early Thursday were victims of “an ambush,” the St. Louis County police chief said, hours after gunfire rang out in front of the police station, throwing into panic what had been a largely peaceful protest.
密苏里州弗格森——圣路易斯县警察局长称，周四早上在这里遭到枪击的两名警察，是“一次伏击”的受害者。几个小时前，警察局前响起的枪声，让一次基本平静的抗议活动陷入了混乱。
Demonstrators and police officers alike hit the ground when the shots echoed through the crisp air shortly after midnight, striking the two officers. Many people ran for cover, and police officers clad in riot gear dragged their wounded comrades to safety. Other officers crouched behind cars and walls, drawing their handguns or rifles as they rapidly swiveled their heads every which way to survey their surroundings.
午夜过后不久，当子弹呼啸着穿过凛冽的空气并击中了两名警察时，示威者和警察都迅速趴在地上。许多人奔跑着寻找掩护，身着防暴装备的警察把受伤的同事拖到了安全的地点。还有一些警察蹲在车辆和墙体后面，掏出手枪或步枪，头不停地朝各个方向扭动，观察着周围的情况。
The injured officers were released from the hospital Thursday morning.
周四上午，受伤的警察获准出院。
“We're lucky by God's grace we didn't lose two officers last night,” Chief Jon Belmar of the St. Louis County Police Department said at a midmorning news conference. It was clear that the police were the targets, he said, adding, “This is really an ambush, is what it is.”
“我们很幸运，得到了上帝的恩典，昨晚没有失去那两位警员，”圣路易斯县警察局长乔恩·贝尔马尔(Jon Belmar)在上午10点左右的新闻发布会上说。他说，显然，警察是目标。他接着说，“这的确是一次伏击，确实是这样。”
Echoing Belmar's comments, Attorney General Eric Holder called the shootings “heinous and cowardly attacks.”
司法部长埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder)呼应了贝尔马尔的观点，称枪击事件是“令人发指的、怯懦的袭击活动”。
“This was not someone trying to bring healing to Ferguson,” Holder said. “This was a damn punk, a punk, who was trying to sow discord.”
“这不是一个想让弗格森治愈伤痛的人，”霍尔德说，“这是一个试图制造不和的可恶的混蛋，混蛋。”
President Barack Obama weighed in on Twitter, writing: “Violence against police is unacceptable. Our prayers are with the officers in MO. Path to justice is one all of us must travel together.”
奥巴马总统在Twitter上发表了言论。他写道，“针对警察的暴力是不可接受的。我们为密苏里州的警察祈祷。通向正义的道路上，我们必须携手同行。”
Later in the morning, in an action that officials said was part of the investigation into the shooting, police SWAT units surrounded a house a few blocks from the shooting scene, and officers climbed onto the roof and broke through a vent there to gain access.
上午晚些时候，特种武器与战术部队（Special Weapons And Tactics，简称SWAT）包围了距离枪击现场几个街区远的一所房屋，警方爬上了房顶，打破一个通风口进入室内。官员称，这是枪击事件调查过程的一部分。
“People have been taken in for questioning,” said a police spokesman, Sgt. Brian Schellman. “No arrests at this point.”
“有一些人被带来讯问，”警方发言人布莱恩·谢尔曼(Brian Schellman)中士说。“目前没有逮捕任何人。”
Belmar said people had a right to protest peacefully, but also said “there is an unfortunate association with that gathering” and the shooting. “I feel confident that for whatever reason they were observers, whatever you want to call it, with the group of individuals that were down there protesting,” he said. “This is no reflection, again, on any of those guys; they can't help it.”
贝尔马尔说，人们有和平抗议的权利，但他也表示，“这次集会”与枪击事件存在着“可怕的联系”。“我敢肯定，在抗议的人群中间，肯定有些人在旁观，”他说。“我重申一下，这并不是指责这些人，他们也没有办法。”
Witnesses among the demonstrators denied any link to the shootings, saying that they believed the shots originated from the top of a hill about 220 yards directly across from the station. Belmar did not specify a location but estimated the distance at 125 yards.
示威者中的目击者否认和枪击事件有任何关联，称他们认为子弹是从警察局正对面大约220码（约合200米）外的一座小山的山顶射来的。贝尔马尔没有说明枪击来自哪个位置，但估计距离警察局125码。
“There's just no way anybody I know did that,” said Bob Hudgins, a protester who is running for City Council. “This was completely out of the blue, and they were not attached or embedded” with the demonstration.
“不可能是任何一个我认识的人干的，”正在参加市议会竞选的抗议者鲍勃·赫金斯(Bob Hudgins)说。“这件事完全是突发性的，他们不属于，也没有混进”示威活动当中。
“Nobody's happy about this today,” he said.
“谁都不会对今天的情况感到开心，”他说。
The shooting threatened to ratchet up tensions and undo efforts to change the way the police here do business and to heal the anger and frustration that have boiled over since Aug. 9, when a white police officer, Darren Wilson, fatally shot an unarmed, 18-year-old black man, Michael Brown.
此次枪击事件可能会加剧当地的紧张，并破坏缓和局面的努力。自去年8月9日白人警察达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)开枪打死手无寸铁的18岁黑人男子迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)之后，民众十分愤怒和不满。之后采取的一些举动意在改变当地警方的执法方式，并缓和民众的情绪。
The Brown family, in a statement from its lawyer, denounced “the actions of stand-alone agitators” who tried to derail the protests. “We reject any kind of violence directed toward members of law enforcement,” the statement said. “It cannot and will not be tolerated.”
在通过代理律师发表的声明中，布朗一家对试图破坏抗议的“煽动者独自实施的行径”表达了谴责。“我们不接受针对执法人员的任何暴力，”声明说。“它不能也不会被容忍。”
The city of Ferguson said in a statement that it was “diligently working to make systematic changes necessary to instill confidence,” but added, “we cannot continue to move forward under threats of violence and destruction.”
弗格森市在一份声明中表示，该市正在“积极努力，做出必要的制度性变革，从而树立信心”，但接下来又说，“我们无法在暴力和破坏的威胁下继续前行。”
In his comments, Holder said that Ferguson officials had made some progress in addressing the city's problems but that significant work remained. He announced an program intended to help reduce racial bias and improve relations between police and the residents, part of an initiative started in the aftermath of the Brown shooting.
霍尔德在评论中称，弗格森的官员在处理该市的问题上取得了一些进展，但仍有大量工作要做。他公布了一项意在帮助减少种族歧视，并改善警民关系的项目，这是布朗枪击事件后启动的一项行动的一部分。
The pilot programs will be in Birmingham, Alabama; Fort Worth, Texas; Gary, Indiana; Minneapolis; Pittsburgh and Stockton, California.
试点项目将在阿拉巴马州的伯明翰、德克萨斯州的沃思堡、印第安纳州的加里、明尼阿波利斯、匹兹堡、加利福尼亚州的斯托克顿开展。
The house that police raided is the home of Iresha Turner, 22, and her 6-year-old son, according to Turner's grandmother, Iris Turner, 59. She said her granddaughter and a male friend had been taken in for questioning by the police, but she insisted that Iresha Turner would not have had anything to do with the shooting.
警方突击搜查的那处房屋里，住着22岁的伊雷莎·特纳(Iresha Turner)和她6岁的儿子，她59岁的祖母艾丽斯·特纳(Iris Turner)透露。她说她孙女和一名男性朋友已被警方带走问话，但她坚持认为伊雷莎·特纳不会和枪击事件有任何关系。