FERGUSON, Mo. — The city manager of Ferguson, whom a Department of Justice report blamed as one of the officials responsible for much of the questionable conduct by the police and the courts there, has agreed to resign.
密苏里州弗格森——弗格森的城市经理同意辞职。此前，联邦司法部的一份报告指责称，此人是要为当地执法与司法系统的许多问题行为负责的官员之一。
The announcement came during a City Council meeting here on Tuesday, about a week after the scathing Justice Department report.
这项声明来自于弗格森市议会周二召开的一次会议。会议开始的一周前，司法部发布了那份措辞严厉的报告。
The manager, John Shaw, 39, had held the post since 2007. As Ferguson’s chief executive, he is the city’s most powerful official.
城市经理约翰·肖(John Shaw)现年39岁，自2007年上任以来一直占据这一职位。作为弗格森的行政长官，他是市里权力最大的官员。
The resignation was announced about 30 minutes into the Council meeting, with members voting 7 to 0 to approve a “mutual separation agreement” with Mr. Shaw.
市议会的会议开始大约30分钟后，七名成员一边倒地投票批准了与约翰·肖之间的“相互分离协议”。他辞职的决定随即得到公布。
As people in the packed Council chamber began to understand what was happening, a buzz shot through the room as onlookers mumbled and a few let out muted cheers.
挤满市议会大厅的人群明白过来之后，室内一阵喧嚣，旁观者交头接耳，还有几个人发出了压低的欢呼声。
“We appreciate John’s service and commitment to the City of Ferguson for the past eight years,” Mayor James Knowles III said in a written statement. “The City Council and John Shaw feel that this is the appropriate time to move forward as we begin our search for a new city manager.”
“我们感激约翰在过去八年里对弗格森市的服务和投入，”市长詹姆斯·诺尔斯三世(James Knowles III)在书面声明中表示。“市议会和约翰·肖感到，现在是向前看的合适时机，我们将开始寻找一名新的城市经理。”
Mr. Shaw did not attend the meeting, but city officials distributed a page-long letter from him.
肖本人并未出席此次会议，不过市政官员分发了一份他写的一页纸的信件。
He wrote that he had worked with the Department of Justice.
文中表示，他一直在与司法部合作。
“And while I certainly respect the work that the D.O.J. recently performed in their investigation and report on the City of Ferguson, I must state clearly that my office has never instructed the Police Department to target African-Americans, nor falsify charges to administer fines, nor heap abuses on the backs of the poor,” he wrote.
“对于司法部近期对弗格森市展开的调查及所做的报告，我无疑是尊重的，然而我必须明确声明，我的办公室从未指示警察部门针对非裔，或是通过伪造指控来收取罚款，或是大力压榨贫困人士，”他写道。
Until the Justice Department report was released, Mr. Shaw had remained largely in the background, while the city’s police chief and mayor became the public faces of turmoil in Ferguson.
司法部的报告公布之前，肖大体上不为公众关注，是弗格森的警长和市长成为了这场骚乱中的代表人物。
But the report highlighted Mr. Shaw as responsible for overseeing the city’s operations as it engaged in racially biased and unconstitutional policing practices.
不过，报告中突显了肖的责任：弗格森从事带有种族歧视色彩的违宪执法行为时，他是负责管理该市运行的官员。
On Monday, the Missouri Supreme Court took what it called the “extraordinary action” of assigning all of Ferguson’s Municipal Court cases to a state appellate judge. Meanwhile, the current municipal judge, Ronald J. Brockmeyer, whom the report accused of ticket-fixing and instituting unconstitutional fees, resigned.
周一，密苏里州最高法院将弗格森市法院的所有案件移交给一名州级上诉法官，并称此举为“非常行动”。与此同时，弗格森的现任市级法官罗纳德·布罗克迈尔(Ronald J. Brockmeyer)宣布辞职。司法部的报告指责他走后门销掉罚单，以及巧立名目进行违宪的罚款。
While Mayor Knowles has stood as the public face of the city through much of the turmoil, other city officials — including Mr. Shaw, the finance director and the police chief — bore much of the blame for the city’s wrongdoings, the Justice Department said.
虽然市长诺尔斯在骚乱过程中的许多时间里充当了市政府代言人，但根据司法部的说法，包括肖、财长和警长在内的其他一些官员要为该市许多不当行为承担责任。
The Justice Department report accused city officials of running the Municipal Court system as a moneymaking venture and having a racially biased police force that regularly violated people’s constitutional rights.
司法部的报告指责弗格森官员将市法院系统当成印钞机，并组建了一支带有种族歧视色彩的警察队伍，任由其时常侵犯民众的宪法权利。
The detailed report confirmed many of the grievances aired last year by blacks in protests after the deadly police shooting of Michael Brown, an unarmed 18-year-old black. Though the Justice Department separately concluded that the officer, Darren Wilson, who is white, violated no federal laws in that shooting, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said investigations revealed the root of the anger that brought people into the streets.
这份详细的报告证实了去年黑人进行抗议活动时表达的诸多不满。这些抗议针对的是手无寸铁的18岁黑人少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)遭警察枪击毙命案。尽管司法部另有结论，白人警员达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)在这起枪击事件中并未违反联邦法规，不过，司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)宣称，相关调查揭示了驱使人们走上街头的怒火的根源所在。
Many residents and political leaders said they hoped that the Justice Department’s affirmation of their grievances would lead to change. And some of that appears to be happening.
许多居民和政界领导人表示，希望司法部对他们疾苦的认同能带来改变。其中一些方面似乎正在发生改变。
Ferguson police officers routinely harassed and abused people, jailing or using Tasers on them without just cause, the report said.
报告中写道，弗格森的警察经常骚扰虐待民众，在没有正当理由的情况下抓人或是动用电击设备。
“City and police leadership pressure officers to write citations, independent of any public safety need, and rely on citation productivity to fund the city budget,” the report said.
“市政府和警察部门领导层要求警员开传票，即便并不涉及任何公共安全诉求。他们还倚仗传票带来的收益来为市政预算提供资金，”报告中写道。
In an email from March 2010, the year Chief Thomas Jackson took his post, the city’s finance director wrote to the chief that “unless ticket writing ramps up significantly before the end of the year, it will be hard to significantly raise collections next year.”
2010年上任的警长托马斯·杰克逊(Thomas Jackson)于当年3月收到了弗格森的财长写的一封邮件。其中表示，“除非年底前快马加鞭地开罚单，明年将很难大幅增收。”
“What are your thoughts,” he added, according to the report.
根据这份报告，他接下来写道，“你觉得呢。”
The chief responded that fines would increase once more officers were hired and that he was considering a different shift schedule that would put more officers on the street and increase traffic enforcement.
杰克逊的回答是，一旦再多聘用些警员，罚款就会增多，而他正在考虑调整班次，让更多警员走上街头，加强交通执法力度。
The next year, when Chief Jackson reported to Mr. Shaw that court revenue for February 2011 was more than $179,000, the highest monthly total in four years, Mr. Shaw responded in an email, “Wonderful!” the Justice Department report said.
第二年，杰克逊向肖汇报，2011年2月份的法院收入逾17.9万美元（当时约合110万元人民币），是四年来的最高月收入。司法部报告中写道，肖在邮件中回复，“太棒了！”
As part of his job, Mr. Shaw recommended department heads — including Chief Jackson and Mr. Brockmeyer — to their jobs, and the City Council voted to approve them.
肖的工作职责之一是推荐部门长官人选，其中包括警长杰克逊和法官布罗克迈尔。市议会随后投票批准了这些人选。