在过去几个月所有关于弗格森的讨论中，有一个特征就是与民权运动时代的类比显得何其单薄。人们想方设法把弗格森与塞尔玛游行(Selma)和吉姆·克劳法(Jim Crow)联系起来，但是有些地方对不上。
That’s, in part, because we’ve moved from simplicity to ambiguity. The civil rights struggle was about as clear a conflict between right and wrong as we get in national life. The debate about Ferguson elicited complex reactions among most sensible people.
一定程度上，那是因为我们已经从简单转向了含混。在我们的国民生活中，民权斗争是再分明不过的对错之争。而关于弗格森的争论，在最明智的人当中引发的反应也是一言难尽的。
This complexity was best expressed in the short essay that Benjamin Watson, a New Orleans Saints tight end, posted on Facebook, which went viral. Watson listed 12 different emotions the Ferguson mess aroused, including:
新奥尔良圣徒队(New Orleans Saints)近端锋本杰明·沃特森(Benjamin Watson)在Facebook上发表了一篇被人疯转的短文，文中透彻地表达了这种复杂性。沃特森列举了弗格森之乱引起的12种不同的情绪，包括：
“I’m ANGRY because stories of injustice that have been passed down for generations seem to be continuing before our very eyes. ... I’m OFFENDED because of the insulting comments I’ve seen. ... I’m INTROSPECTIVE because sometimes I want to take ‘our’ side without looking at the facts in situations like these.”
“我愤怒，因为那些代代相传的冤案故事，好像现在就在我们眼前继续发生着……我觉得被冒犯了，因为我看到了一些侮辱人的评论……我在反省，因为有时候我会去站在‘我们’这一边，而不去看这类情境下的事实如何。”
But the other reason that the civil-rights era comparisons were inapt is because the nature of racism has changed. There has been a migration away from prejudice based on genetics to prejudice based on class.
然而，还有一个原因导致和民运时代的类比是不恰当的，那就是种族主义的本质已经变了。它已经从基于基因的偏见，转向了基于阶级的偏见。
Let me explain with a historical detour. In 18th- and 19th-century Britain, there was a division between “respectable” society and those who lived in slums that were sometimes known as rookeries (because the neighborhoods reminded people of rock faces where thieving crows lived in little nooks and crannies).
要解释这一点，我需要先说一说历史。在18、19世纪的英国存在“体面”社会和贫民窟的区别，后者有时也称为“乌鸦窝”（因为贫民住宅区让人联想起那些偷东西的乌鸦所生活的犄角旮旯）。
The people who lived in these slums were often described as more like animals than human beings. For example, in an 1889 essay in The Palace Journal, Arthur Morrison described, “Dark, silent, uneasy shadows passing and crossing — human vermin in this reeking sink, like goblin exhalations from all that is noxious around. Women with sunken, black-rimmed eyes, whose pallid faces appear and vanish by the light of an occasional gas lamp, and look so like ill-covered skulls that we start at their stare.”
生活在这些贫民窟里的人，在言语中往往被当作动物而非人类。比如在1889年《宫廷期刊》(The Palace Journal)上的一篇文章中，阿瑟·莫里森(Arthur Morrison)有这样一段描写：“黑暗、无声、不安的影子纵横交错——人寄居在这个散发恶臭的污秽之地，就像每一个充满毒害的角落都有妖精在呼吸。女人凹陷的眼睛带着黑眼圈，苍白的脸在偶尔点亮的煤气灯下时隐时现，那模样太像没遮盖好的骷髅，以至于她们一望过来，就能把我们吓到。”
“Proper” people of that era had both a disgust and fascination for those who lived in these untouchable realms. They went slumming into the poor neighborhoods, a sort of poverty tourism that is the equivalent of today’s reality TV or the brawlers that appear on “The Jerry Springer Show.”
在那个时代，“体面人”对贱民世界的生活既厌恶又好奇。他们会去穷人聚居区过贫苦生活，这种贫穷之旅仿佛是如今的真人秀，或《杰瑞·斯布林格秀》(The Jerry Springer Show)里的厮打。
Today we once again have a sharp social divide between people who live in the “respectable” meritocracy and those who live beyond it. In one world almost everybody you meet has at least been to college, and people have very little contact with features that are sometimes a part of the other world: prison, meth, payday loans, a flowering of nonmarriage family forms. In one world, people assume they can control their destinies. In the other, some people embrace the now common motto: “It don’t make no difference.”
时至今日，我们再一次面临尖锐的社会割裂，一方是“体面”的精英阶层，一方是与精英阶层无缘的人。在一个世界里，你身边的每一个人都至少上过大学，大家极少接触到另一个世界的特征：监狱、冰毒、发薪日贷款、婚外家庭形式盛行。在这个世界里，人们认为自己可以左右自己的命运。在那个世界里，有的人奉行一个如今很普遍的座右铭：“怎么做都是一样的结果。”
Widening class distances produce class prejudice, classism. This is a prejudice based on visceral attitudes about competence. People in the “respectable” class have meritocratic virtues: executive function, grit, a capacity for delayed gratification. The view about those in the untouchable world is that they are short on these things. They are disorganized. They are violent and scary. This belief has some grains of truth because of childhood trauma, the stress of poverty and other things. But this view metastasizes into a vicious, intellectually lazy stereotype. Before long, animalistic imagery is used to describe these human beings.
阶级差距的拉大会造成阶级偏见，阶级歧视。这种偏见是基于一种对能力的本能态度产生的。“体面”阶级的人有着精英的美德：管控功能、坚毅、耐得住性子。而对那些身在贱民世界的人的看法是，他们缺少这些特质。他们没有规划。他们暴戾、可怕。鉴于童年创伤、贫困压力等等因素，这样的看法有一些属实的地方。然而它经过扩散转移，变成了一种恶毒的、不假思索的刻板印象。过不了多久，把这些人当动物来描述的情况就会出现。
This class prejudice is applied to both the white and black poor, whose demographic traits are converging. But classism combines with latent and historic racism to create a particularly malicious brew. People are now assigned a whole range of supposedly underclass traits based on a single glimpse at skin color.
这种阶级偏见适用于所有穷人，无论白人还是黑人，他们的人群特征是重合的。但是阶级歧视与潜在的、历史悠久的种族主义结合起来，会酝酿出一种格外恶毒的东西。如今人们只需看一眼肤色，就能得出一整套普遍认为的底层人特征。
During the civil-rights era there was always a debate about what was a civil-rights issue and what was an economic or social issue. Now that distinction has been obliterated. Every civil-rights issue is also an economic and social issue. Classism intertwines with racism.
民权运动时代始终在辩论什么是民权问题，什么是经济或社会问题。现在，这道界线已经被抹去。所有的民权问题，同时也是经济和社会问题。阶级歧视和种族歧视是纠缠在一起的。
It’s often said after events like Ferguson that we need a national conversation on race. That’s a bit true. We all need to improve our capacity for sympathetic understanding, our capacity to imaginatively place ourselves in the minds of other people with experiences different from our own. Conversation can help, though I suspect novels, works of art and books like Claude Brown’s “Manchild in the Promised Land” work better.
在弗格森这样的事件发生后，总是会有人说，我们需要就种族展开一场全民对话。这不无道理。我们都需要提高我们感同身受的能力，让我们能更好地设身处地，去想象那些与我们境遇不同的人是如何生活的。对话是有用的，但我觉得小说、艺术品，或者像克劳德·布朗(Claude Brown)的《乐土上的男孩》(Manchild in the Promised Land)这样的书，或许更有用。