The response to the killing of the unarmed teenager Michael Brown — whom his family called the “gentle giant” — by the Ferguson, Mo., police officer Darren Wilson — who was described by his police chief as “a gentle, quiet man” and “a gentleman” — has been anything but genteel.
在密苏里州弗格森，手无寸铁的青年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)遭当地警察达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)枪杀。家人把布朗称作“温和的巨人”，而警局局长也形容威尔逊是“一个温和安静的人”，是一个“绅士”。但这起事件引发的反应绝对算不上温和文雅。
There have been passionate but peaceful protests to be sure, but there has also been some violence and looting. Police forces in the town responded with an outlandish military-like presence more befitting Baghdad than suburban Missouri.
人们肯定进行了充满情绪但和平的抗议，但同时也出现了一些暴力事件和趁乱打劫的举动。作为回应，该镇的警队部署了军事化的行动，这种怪诞的反应更适合巴格达，而不是密苏里州的一个郊区城镇。
There were armored vehicles, flash grenades and a seemingly endless supply of tear gas — much of it Pentagon trickle-down. There were even officers perched atop vehicles, in camouflage and body armor, pointing weapons in the direction of peaceful protesters.
那里出现了装甲车、闪光弹和似乎源源不断的催泪瓦斯——其中很大一部分是从五角大楼流出的。在装甲车顶，甚至还有身着迷彩服和防弹衣的警员，他们把武器对准了和平的示威者。
Let me be clear here: Pointing a gun at an innocent person is an act of violence and provocation.
让我说得明确一些：用枪指着一个无辜的人，是一种暴力和挑衅的举动。
Americans were aghast at the images, and condemnation was swift and bipartisan. The governor put the state’s Highway Patrol in charge of security. Tensions seemed to subside, for a day.
美国人被这些画面惊得目瞪口呆，无论支持哪个党派，都迅速表达了谴责。该州州长指示由公路巡警(Highway Patrol)负责安全事宜。紧张局势似乎得到缓解，这种状况只维持了一天。
But then on Friday, when releasing the name of the officer who did the shooting, the police chief also released details and images of a robbery purporting to show Brown stealing cigars from a local convenience store and pushing a store employee in the process.
但到了上周五，在透露开枪警官的姓名时，警察局长还公布了一起抢劫案的细节和画面，并声称这些画面显示布朗在当地一家便利店偷雪茄，还在这个过程中推搡了店员。
The implication seemed to be that Wilson was looking for the person who committed the convenience store crime when he encountered Brown. But, later in the day, the chief said Wilson didn’t know Brown was a robbery suspect when they encountered each other.
这似乎是在暗示，威尔逊是在寻找便利店罪案嫌疑人的时候遇到了布朗。但是当天晚些时候，警察局长又说，两人遭遇时，威尔逊并不知道布朗是那桩抢劫案的犯罪嫌疑人。
Something seemed off. The police chief’s decision to release the details of the robbery and the images — without releasing an image of Wilson — struck many as perfidious. In a strongly worded statement, Brown’s family and attorneys accused the chief of attempting to assassinate the character of the dead teen.
事情似乎有点怪。警察局长公布了抢劫案的细节和相关图像，却没有公布威尔逊的照片，这让许多人觉得警方心怀鬼胎。在一份措辞严厉的声明中，布朗的家人和律师指责警察局长试图污蔑死去年轻人的品行。
Some also deemed it an attempt at distraction from the central issue: An officer shot an unarmed teenager who witnesses claim had raised his hands in surrender when at least some of the shots were fired, which the family and its attorneys called “a brutal assassination of his person in broad daylight.”
一些人还认为，这一做法是为了转移对核心问题的注意力：一名警察枪杀了一个手无寸铁的青年。有目击者称，布朗受到的枪击，至少有一些是他在举手投降后射出的。家人和律师称，这是“在光天化日下残忍杀人”。
The Justice Department is even investigating whether Brown’s civil rights were violated. This would include the excessive use of force. As the department makes clear, this “does not require that any racial, religious, or other discriminatory motive existed.”
司法部甚至开始调查布朗的公民权利是否受到了侵犯，其中可能包括过度使用武力。就像司法部明确指出的，过度使用武力的指控“不需要存在任何种族、宗教或其他歧视性动机”。
It’s impossible to truly know the chief’s motives for his decision to release the robbery information at the same time as the officer’s name, but the effect was clear: That night, a fragile peace was shattered. There was more looting, although peaceful protesters struggled heroically to block the violent ones.
外界不可能真正知道，警察局长在公布警察姓名时，同时公布那起抢劫案的信息是出于何种动机，但后果很明显：当天夜里，脆弱的和平被打破了。尽管和平的抗议者勇敢地阻拦那些暴力的抗议者，但还是出现了更多趁乱打劫的举动。
On Saturday, the governor issued a midnight curfew for the town. A small band of protesters defied it and some were arrested.
周六，州长宣布该镇从午夜开始实施宵禁。一小群抗议者违抗禁令，其中一些被捕。
The community is struggling to find its way back to normalcy, but it would behoove us to dig a bit deeper into the underlying frustrations that cause a place like Ferguson to erupt in the first place and explore the untenable nature of our normal.
这个社区正在艰难地寻找恢复正常的途径。但首先，我们必须更深入地分析深层的挫折感，探究我们的“正常”本质上为何无法维系。正是这种挫折感，导致了像弗格森这样的地方爆发了骚乱。
Yes, there are the disturbingly repetitive and eerily similar circumstances of many cases of unarmed black people being killed by police officers. This reinforces black people’s beliefs — supportable by actual data — that blacks are treated less fairly by the police.
是的，的确有警察杀害手无寸铁的黑人的事件，这些事件反复出现，令人担忧，并且情节相似得令人害怕。这强化了黑人所持的观点，即警察对待黑人不那么公平，这种也观点了得到了实际数据的支持。
But I submit that this is bigger than that. The frustration we see in Ferguson is about not only the present act of perceived injustice but also the calcifying system of inequity — economic, educational, judicial — drawn largely along racial lines.
但我要说的是，事情不仅如此。我们在弗格森看到的不满，不仅涉及目前人们由于感受到不公而采取的行动，还涉及日益固化的不公平的制度——经济的、教育的、司法的。这种制度基本上沿着种族界限形成的。
In 1951, Langston Hughes began his poem “Harlem” with a question: “What happens to a dream deferred?” Today, I must ask: What happens when one desists from dreaming, when the very exercise feels futile?
1951年，兰斯顿·休斯(Langston Hughes)在诗作《哈林区》(Harlem)的开篇提出了一个问题：“梦被拖延后会怎样？”今天，我必须问：当人不再梦想，当人觉得怀有梦想是徒劳的，又会怎样？
The discussion about issues in the black community too often revolves around a false choice: systemic racial bias or poor personal choices. In fact, these factors are interwoven like the fingers of clasped hands. People make choices within the context of their circumstances and those circumstances are affected — sometimes severely — by bias.
黑人社区的问题所引发的讨论，常常会绕着一个虚假的选择兜圈子：问题是制度性的种族歧视，还是糟糕的个人选择？实际上，这两种因素相互交织，就如同双手合拢后交叉在一起的手指一样。人们以各自的境遇为背景做出选择，而那些境遇又会受到歧视的影响。有时，这种影响很严重。
These biases do material damage as well as help breed a sense of disenfranchisement and despair, which in turn can have a depressive effect on aspiration and motivation. This all feeds back on itself.
这些歧视会造成实质性的损失，也会导致人们产生一种权利被剥夺和绝望的感觉，而这种感觉反过来又会对抱负、对积极性造成消极影响。这都是相互影响的。