BEIJING – The slumping art auction market received a boost Tuesday when a painting by the 20th-century Chinese artist Zhang Daqian sold for a record $34.7 million including buyer’s premium at the first part of Sotheby’s Fine Chinese Paintings sale in Hong Kong.
北京——周二，低迷的艺术品拍卖市场创下佳绩，在香港苏富比(Sotheby’s)中国书画拍卖会的第一部分中，20世纪中国画家张大千的一幅作品以创纪录的3470万美元（含佣金）成交。
The painting, a 1982 hanging scroll titled “Peach Blossom Spring,” sold for more than four times its high estimate of $8.3 million (not including buyer’s premium), setting a world auction record for the artist, who was already one of China’s highest-grossing artists at auction.
此画名为《桃源图》，是作于1982年的一幅立轴，成交价比估价830万美元（不含佣金）高出三倍以上，再创张大千个人作品拍卖的新纪录。张大千本来就已经是拍卖会上作品成交价总额最高的中国艺术家。
The floor was packed when the hammer finally came down in the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center after an intense 50-minute session that saw more than 100 bids come in from the floor and via telephone.
香港会展中心的拍卖厅座无虚席，激烈的竞价过程持续了50分钟才最终落槌，其间收到了100多个现场和电话竞价。
The splashed ink and color painting ultimately went to Liu Yiqian and Wang Wei, founders of the Long Museum in Shanghai and the mainland Chinese power collector couple behind last November’s blockbuster purchase of a painting by the early-20th-century artist Amedeo Modigliani.
这幅泼墨泼彩作品最终被上海龙美术馆创始人刘益谦和王薇购得。去年11月，这对中国大陆知名收藏家夫妇以天价购得20世纪早期画家阿梅代奥·莫迪利亚尼(Amedeo Modigliani)的一幅画作。
In the past two years Mr. Liu and Ms. Wang have shown a penchant for setting auction records. Mr. Liu bought the Modigliani painting for $170.4 million with fees, the second-highest price ever paid for an artwork at auction.
过去两年里，刘益谦和王薇表现出了对刷新拍卖纪录的嗜好。刘益谦以1.704亿美元（含佣金）价格购得莫迪利亚尼的那幅画作，成为艺术品拍卖史上的第二高价。
Mr. Liu, a former taxi driver turned billionaire, also set the record for a Chinese artwork sold at international auction when he paid $45 million for a Ming dynasty silk thangka at a Christie’s auction in 2014, breaking the record he set only months earlier when he bought a tiny porcelain “chicken cup” for $36.3 million at a Sotheby’s sale in Hong Kong.
这位出租车司机出身的亿万富翁，也为国际拍卖会上的中国艺术拍品刷新过记录：在2014年佳士得(Christie’s)的一个拍卖会上，他以4500万美元的价格拍得一幅明代刺绣唐卡，打破他本人几个月前才创下的记录，当时他在苏富比以3630万美元买下一个小小的明代“鸡缸杯”。
“Peach Blossom Spring” is considered to be one of the most important late-career works by Mr. Zhang, who died in 1983. In purchasing the work Mr. Liu will be bringing the landscape painting back to Asia from the Mactaggart Art Collection of the University of Alberta Museums.
张大千于1983年去世，《桃源图》被认为是其晚期最重要的作品之一。购得这幅山水画后，刘益谦将把它从阿尔伯塔博物馆大学(University of Alberta Museums)的麦克塔格特艺术收藏(Mactaggart Art Collections)带回亚洲。
“Nothing beats a painting by Zhang Daqian!” Mr. Liu said in a post on his WeChat social media account, adding that it was the first time he had hung up the phone during the bidding, only to call back because he liked the painting so much.
“大千问世，谁与争锋！”刘益谦在他的微信帐号上说。他还说这是自己第一次在拍卖过程中挂断电话，但是又重新打了回去，因为他太喜欢这幅画了。
The reports of strong sales at auctions and at Art Basel Hong Kong last month come amid concerns about the impact of the economic slowdown and a continuing anti-corruption campaign in China on art buying. Total sales in the Chinese market dropped 23 percent to $11.8 billion in 2015, according to the annual art market report published by the European Fine Art Foundation in March.
拍卖会上的销售形势颇为强劲，上月举办的香港巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel)中也是如此，而这段时间，人们正在担心中国经济放缓以及持续的反腐败运动对艺术品销售的影响。欧洲艺术基金会(European Fine Art Foundation)今年3月公布的年度艺术市场报告显示，2015年中国市场的总销售额下挫23%，至118亿美元。
Earlier this week a work by Mr. Zhang was the top lot at another Sotheby’s sale, when a 1946 hanging scroll by the artist called “Leisure Stroll Through Mountains” sold for $2.2 million to a private Asian collector.
本周早些时候，在苏富比的另一场拍卖中，一位私人收藏家以220万美元的价格购得另一幅张大千作品_作于1946年的《溪山游屐图》立轴，成为那场拍卖的最高成交价。
World auction records were also reached for several artists at Sotheby’s Modern and Contemporary Asian Art sale, including Wang Huaiqing’s “Feet 2” which fetched $7 million and was the top lot of that evening sale. Sotheby’s spring auctions in Hong Kong continue through Wednesday.
在苏富比现代及当代亚洲艺术拍卖中，几名艺术家的作品也创下全球拍卖佳绩，其中包括王怀庆的《足-2》拍得700万美元，是当晚的最高价。香港苏富比春季拍卖会将持续至本周三。