Now that the frenzy of Frieze weekend has passed, art lovers may be feeling the impulse to ditch the crowds, flee the city and light out for the territory. Fortunately, New York’s outlying regions offer abundant reasons to make the reverse cultural commute, and this spring, Storm King Art Center announces two new ones: the just-opened exhibition “Zhang Huan: Evoking Tradition” and a newly commissioned installation by the sculptor Virginia Overton.
上周末弗里兹展(Frieze)的狂热已经退去，艺术爱好者们可能很想逃离拥挤的人群，远离都市，去做点小小探险。幸运的是，纽约的外围地区为艺术爱好者们前往那里提供了充分的理由。今年春天，斯托姆·金艺术中心(Storm King Art Center)宣布了两个新项目：刚开幕的“张洹：唤起传统”(Zhang Huan: Evoking Tradition)展和雕塑家弗吉尼亚·奥弗顿(Virginia Overton)新创作的一个委托装置作品。
Part of the allure of Storm King has always been the land itself: Though it was originally founded in 1960 as a museum within a house tucked away in the Hudson Valley and surrounded by a rose garden and formal hedges, exponentially larger pieces were eventually acquired, additional acres were amassed and the focus shifted outdoors as the space evolved into one of the world’s most renowned sculpture parks. Permanent works by artists such as Richard Serra and Mark di Suvero have long beckoned visitors; a day spent exploring the sculptures installed on the park’s 500 acres passes astonishingly quickly here, and some of the newest art on view links back to the history of the rolling hills and fields.
斯托姆·金艺术中心的吸引力之一永远在于它所处的那片土地：虽然最初它只是1960年在哈德逊谷一栋房子里成立的博物馆，被玫瑰花园和整齐的树篱包围，但是后来又购进了很多更大的房子，占据了更大的面积，重点转移到了户外，那里也演变成了世界上最著名的雕塑公园之一。理查德·塞拉(Richard Serra)和马克·迪·苏维洛(Mark di Suvero)等艺术家的永久陈列作品长久以来吸引着游客。在这个500英亩的公园里看一天雕塑，你会觉得时间过得飞快，有些最新展出的艺术作品与这里起伏的小山和田野的历史有关。
Indoors, the Chinese-born artist Zhang Huan has sculpted heads from a palette of 49 varieties of ashes, ranging in color from gray and white to bright pink (these are not funerary ashes, by the way, but ritual ashes, collected from incense burned in Buddhist temples). Huan is a practicing Buddhist, and his work is deeply spiritual, drawing upon prayer and remembrance as much as it trades on yearning and wishes (outdoors, “Peace No. 2,” a bronze bell from which a replica of his own body dangles as the ringer, is inscribed with the hopes and dreams of villagers). It’s also a bit cheeky: in a nearby sculpture, a foot births a head (“maybe if a head sprouted from a foot, it would be smarter,” Huan said through a translator). Another piece incorporates an antique wooden gate from rural China, through which farmers once passed on their way to work in the villages.
在室内，中国出生的艺术家张洹用49种灰烬雕刻出了很多脑袋，这些灰烬的颜色包括灰色、白色和亮粉色等（顺便提一句，这些灰烬不是骨灰，而是从佛教寺庙里收集来的香灰）。张洹信奉佛教，他的作品具有深刻的灵性，来源于祷文和回忆以及渴望和希望（在室外，他的《和平，2号作品》是一个铜制大钟，他自己身体的复制品作为摇绳从钟的中间悬挂下来，钟上刻有村民们的希望和梦想）。他的作品还有点调皮：附近他的另一个雕塑是一只脚生出了一个头（“也许说成从脚上长出一个头更合适，”张洹通过翻译说）。还有一件作品是从中国农村找来的一个古老的木门，农民们曾经穿过这个门去村里干活。
Storm King is, after all, farmland — part of the dairy farm once run by its co-founder Ralph E. Ogden now makes up the sculpture-speckled South Fields. Works at the center by Andy Goldsworthy and Maya Lin have referenced this heritage, and it also appealed to the sculptor Virginia Overton, who works in Brooklyn but has family farming roots in her native Tennessee. After receiving the second of Storm King’s “Outlooks” commissions to produce a site-specific work, she made multiple visits to the center during every season, roaming its woods and hills. She kept returning to a particular spot, however, attracted by its visibility and the fact that the field itself altered in color and height as the grass turned green, grew tall, was cut down, baled and hauled away for haying. “It felt like it could have a conversation with the pieces around it,” she says. The work she eventually created — a brass tube some 400 feet long and four feet high — functions, as she describes it, as “a drawing across the field.” It follows the contours of the land, and as the native grasses grow, it will hover just above them. And not only does it engage with its distant neighbor sculptures, it is a conversation transmitter itself: the hollow pipe actually carries the sound of visitors’ voices.
斯托姆·金毕竟是个农场，它的联合创始人拉尔夫·R·奥格登(Ralph E. Ogden)曾经经营的牧场的一部分构成了散布着雕塑的南场(South Fields)。位于中央的安迪·高兹沃斯(Andy Goldsworthy)和林璎的作品参考了这段历史。这段历史也引起了雕塑家弗吉尼亚·奥弗顿的兴趣，她在布鲁克林工作，但是来自田纳西州的一个农民家庭。在接受斯托姆·金艺术中心的委托，第二次为《展望》(Outlook)系列创作一个地点特定的作品之后，她多次在各个季节参观该中心，在树林和小山上漫步。但是，她总会回到同一个地点，被这里的广阔视野所吸引，而且随着青草变绿、长高、被割掉、打捆、搬走、堆成草垛，这片田野本身的颜色和高度也在变化。“感觉它可以与周围的东西交谈，”她说。她最后创作出来的作品——约400英尺长、四英尺高的黄铜管——是“一幅穿过田野的画”。它追随这片土地的轮廓，随着青草长高，它将刚刚高出那些草。它不仅与远处的其他雕塑有关联，而且它本身也是个传话筒：空管子真的可以传递游客的声音。