北京——近日，中国政府命令各网站移除四部受欢迎的美国电视剧。命令涉及的一家公司的首席执行官并未过多强调政府此举对行业的影响，虽然有新闻报道称中国国家电视台计划播出遭到移除的一部情景喜剧。周一，搜狐首席执行官张朝阳说，他认为此举是一个“孤立事件”，并不代表行业趋势或者对美剧态度的转变。
Sohu has become a popular platform for viewing domestic and foreign TV series in recent years. Like other video streaming websites in China, it has increased its lineup of licensed shows from abroad, but Sohu has put a particular emphasis on American series compared with its competitors, broadcasting “The Big Bang Theory” and “The Good Wife.”
近年来，搜狐已经成了一个广受欢迎的国产和外国电视剧观看平台。与中国其他视频流网站一样，搜狐也增加了从国外引进的有授权视频数量，但与竞争对手相比，搜狐尤其关注美剧，在其网站上播出了《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)和《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)。
Last Friday, the Chinese authorities ordered video websites nationwide to remove those shows, as well as “NCIS” and “The Practice,” according to employees of the sites, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the news media.
各网站员工表示，上周五，中国官方命令全国视频网站移除前述两部电视剧，以及《海军罪案调查处》(NCIS)和《律师本色》(The Practice)。这些员工无权接受媒体采访，因此只愿意匿名发言。
Mr. Zhang, whose comments came during a conference call to discuss his company’s first-quarter earnings, acknowledged that the order to stop broadcasting “Big Bang” would affect the website, because the series “is our exclusive broadcast right, and the advertising sales are also not bad.”
在讨论公司第一季度收益的电话会议上，张朝阳对此事进行了评论。他承认，停止播出《生活大爆炸》的命令将对网站造成影响，因为我们对这部剧“享有独家播放权，广告也卖得不错”。
Asked by reporters what he thought was the reason for the government order, Mr. Zhang replied that he did not know and had no further comment.
记者问张朝阳，他认为政府为何要发布这项命令，张朝阳回答说他不知道，无法进一步置评。
But he said American shows were still less popular than domestic shows, and so any absences would not “greatly impact” Sohu’s advertising returns. Suspicions of a more commercial motivation behind the ban arose on Monday, with news that the state broadcaster, China Central Television, or CCTV, planned to broadcast “The Big Bang Theory.” According to an April 11 notice on its website, the Beijing-based production company CBM said that CCTV planned to broadcast the show and had asked the company to provide subtitles.
但他表示，美剧仍不如国产剧受欢迎，所以即便不播出一些美剧，也不会对搜狐的广告收益造成“重大影响”。周一，人们开始怀疑这一禁令背后隐藏着更具商业性的动机，因为有消息称，官方的中央电视台计划播出《生活大爆炸》。4月11日，总部位于北京的制作公司CBM4月11日在自己的网站上发布了一则通知，该通知称央视计划播出《生活大爆炸》，并已请该公司制作字幕。
A CBM representative, who was not authorized to speak to news media, said the company received the project from CCTV at the beginning of this year. CBM is responsible for subtitles and not for editing the show in any way, the representative said.
CBM的一名代表说，公司今年年初就接到了央视的这个项目。这名代表说，CBM负责制作字幕，但不负责对该剧进行编辑。这名代表没有获得向新闻媒体透露信息的授权。
An employee at another video website said that the authorities ordered the four shows removed because of “content issues,” but said that they did not describe them. In similar orders in the past, the authorities usually informed websites what aspect of the content was deemed inappropriate.
另一家视频网站的一名员工称，官方下令停播那四部剧是因为“内容问题”。不过，这名员工说，官方没有具体说是哪些问题。在过去的类似命令中，官方通常会告知网站，哪方面的内容被认为不合适。
The person said the order was not related to planned regulations aimed at tightening control of foreign TV shows online in China.
这名员工称，这一命令与计划中旨在加紧控制中国网络上的外国电视剧的监管措施无关。
“In my memory, they have never banned the whole show before,” the person said. “Also, it is the first time they banned four shows at the same time.”
“在我记忆中，他们以前从未禁播整部剧集，”这名员工说，”而且，这也是他们第一次同时禁播四部剧。”
Many Internet users expressed surprise that a lighthearted comedy like “Big Bang” could be targeted by government censors, even as shows with far more political plots, like “House of Cards,” another Sohu exclusive, remained online.
许多互联网用户表示惊讶，因为像《生活大爆炸》这样的轻松喜剧居然被政府审查机构列为了目标，与此同时，《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)等政治阴谋成分多得多的剧集却依然可以在线观看。《纸牌屋》是搜狐的另一部独播剧。
Despite the order, “I believe that American dramas still have great potential in China,” said Mr. Zhang, Sohu’s chief. “So I think we will maintain our American drama strategy.”
搜狐首席执行官张朝阳说，尽管有这一禁令，但“我相信，美剧在中国依然有巨大的潜力，因此我觉得，我们将坚持美剧战略”。