The General Motors Building in Midtown Manhattan, already the most valuable office tower in the United States, is worth even more after two prominent foreign families bought a large piece of it last week.
位于曼哈顿中城的通用汽车大楼(General Motors Building)本来就是美国最值钱的办公楼，在两个声名赫赫的外国家族于上周购买了这栋楼的一大部分股权之后，这栋楼变得更值钱了。
The family of Zhang Xin, the chief executive of a large development company in Beijing, and the Safra family of Brazil, long involved in international banking, teamed up to buy a 40 percent stake in the building, said Darcy A. Stacom, a vice chairman of CBRE Group, a real-estate services firm.
房地产服务公司世邦魏理仕集团(CBRE Group)副主席达西·A·斯塔肯(Darcy A. Stacom)说，北京某大型房地产公司首席执行官张欣的家族，以及长久涉足国际银行业务的巴西萨夫拉(Safra)家族，联手购买了该大楼40%的股权。
The deal, which was first reported by The Wall Street Journal, places a new value of about $3.4 billion on the building, up about 20 percent from when the sellers bought their stake five years ago, Ms. Stacom said. In 2008, Boston Properties bought 60 percent of the building from the Macklowe family and brought in a group of investors that included Goldman Sachs and Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds as passive partners.
斯塔肯说，此次交易由《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)率先披露之后，大楼的价值增加了约34亿美元（约合208亿元人民币），比卖家五年前购买大楼股权时高了20%左右。2008年，波士顿房地产公司(Boston Properties)从麦克罗威家族(Macklowe)手中购买了该大楼60%的股份，并把包括高盛投资公司(Goldman Sachs)和中东主权基金在内的一些投资者变成了被动合伙人。
The new owners of the minority stakes are expected to remain passive investors, Ms. Stacom said. She said they appreciated the combination of the building’s status as a premier trophy property and the way Boston Properties had been managing it.
斯塔肯说，40%少数股份的新持有者预计依然会是被动投资人。她说，他们欣赏大楼作为突出地标性建筑的地位，也欣赏波士顿房地产公司管理大楼的方式。
“It has always been pursued,” said Ms. Stacom, who brokered the sale with her partner, William Shanahan. “People understand its inherent value.”
和合伙人威廉·沙纳汉(William Shanahan)一起代理本次销售的斯塔肯说，“这种地产项目总是受人追捧。人们明白它的内在价值。”
The 50-story, white marble building, which was completed in 1968, stands on Fifth Avenue, across from the Plaza Hotel, at the southeast corner of Central Park. The sweeping views of the park from its higher floors have attracted major law firms and hedge funds as tenants and commanded some of the highest commercial rents in the city.
这栋50层高的白色大理石建筑于1968年完工，矗立在第五大道上，位于中央公园(Central Park)东南角，对面就是广场饭店(Plaza Hotel)。大楼高层可以将公园景色尽收眼底，这一点吸引了一些重要的律师事务所和对冲基金公司成为大楼的租户，并让大楼跻身纽约市办公租金最高的楼宇行列。
At street level, the building houses the F. A. O. Schwarz toy store. In the center of its plaza is a glass cube that serves as the entrance to the flagship Apple store.
这栋建筑的临街一层驻有FAO施瓦茨(F. A. O. Schwarz)玩具店。楼内广场的中心有一个玻璃立方体，那是苹果(Apple)旗舰店的入口。
The new owners replace two investment funds that each owned one-fifth of the building, according to an executive who had been briefed on the transaction but was not cleared to speak about it.
据一位知晓交易内情、但未获准公开谈论此事的高管透露，新股东取代了两个投资基金，这两个基金分别持有大楼五分之一的股份。
Zhang Xin is the chief executive of Soho China Ltd., which has built many office buildings in Beijing and Shanghai. The other buyer is an investment arm of the family of Edmond J. Safra, the founder of Republic National Bank of New York who died in 1999 in a fire in Monaco that was determined to have been arson.
张欣是Soho中国有限公司的首席执行官，该公司已在北京和上海建造了许多办公楼。另一位买家是埃德蒙·J·萨夫拉(Edmond J. Safra)家族旗下的投资业务部门，埃德蒙·J·萨夫拉是利宝银行(Republic National Bank of New York)的创始人，于1999年在摩纳哥的一场大火中丧生，那次火灾的原因被认定为人为纵火。