Hordes of young female fans gripping camera phones were camped out in the lobby of the Park Hyatt in Beijing on Thursday afternoon, hoping to catch a glimpse of Lu Han, formerly of the South Korean boy band EXO, who was appearing there with a clutch of other stars to discuss their participation in the renowned director Zhang Yimou’s latest film, a fantasy adventure epic called “The Great Wall.”
众星云集北京柏悦酒店，谈论他们在著名导演张艺谋的奇幻冒险史诗新片《长城》中的角色。韩国男子团体EXO前团员鹿晗的出席，让大批女性粉丝在周四下午驻扎在酒店大厅，盼望能一睹其风采。
“It’s a little overwhelming when someone like Lu Han shows up,” Matt Damon, whom some might have characterized as the foremost star in the bunch, told a news conference. Mr. Damon, who said the film was the biggest movie he had ever been involved in, chuckled as he spoke about his experience working for the first time with a cast of predominantly Asian actors.
“鹿晗这样的人的出现，让人些招架不住。”被一些人视为全场最大牌影星的马特‧达蒙(Matt Damon)在发布会上说。这是达蒙第一次与这么多亚洲演员一起合作，在谈起这段经历时他莞尔而笑，并表示这是他参与过的规模最大的电影之一。
“I think the first night before we started shooting there were something like 400 flower arrangements. It took up the entire hallway,” he said.
“开机前那个晚上，我估计有400束花吧。把过道都占满了，”他说。
“I thought they were for me!” quipped Andy Lau, the veteran Hong Kong actor, much to the amusement of the audience.
“我以为那是送给我的！”香港老牌演员刘德华打趣道，观众席响起一片笑声。
Produced by the American company Legendary Entertainment in partnership with Universal Pictures, China Film Company and Le Vision Pictures, the $150 million “Great Wall,” due to be released globally in November 2016, is one of China’s biggest productions to date. Perhaps more significant, it is the largest-ever Hollywood-China co-production, a designation that will exempt it from China’s strict import quota on foreign films and entitle its foreign production partners to a larger share of the box-office revenue.
由美国传奇娱乐(Legendary Entertainment)、环球影业、中国电影集团与乐视影业合作，斥资一亿五千万美元的《长城》预计于2016年11月在全球上映，是中国有史以来最大手笔的电影制作之一。更重要的是，这是好莱坞与中国进行的最大规模的合作，且不受中国引进外国影片的严格配额所限。外国制作合作方在票房收入上也会获得更高的提成。
Hollywood studios have long seen co-productions as a way to grab a piece of China’s booming film market, now second only to the United States. But over the past decade, United States-China co-productions have met with only varying degrees of success, as they have struggled to balance Chinese cultural elements and international box-office appeal.
为了中国这个仅次于美国的第二大电影市场，好莱坞长久以来将合拍电影视为进入这蓬勃发展市场的方法。但过去十年来，中美合拍的电影虽然努力在中国文化元素与迎合国际票房间取得平衡，结果却有喜有忧。
For many studios, the challenge has been to integrate Chinese elements into films without appearing too obvious. Marvel Studio’s 2013 “Iron Man 3,” for example, angered Chinese officials and audiences when it was revealed that two versions of the film had been released, one for Chinese audiences that included Chinese actors and locations, and one with those scenes cut for international audiences.
对许多制片厂而言，他们的挑战在于如何将中国元素巧妙而不刻意地整合进电影。以漫威影业在2013年上映的《钢铁侠3》为例，由于中国与国际上映的版本不同，让中国官方与观众都大为震怒。中国版本的电影虽有中国演员与场景，但这些片段在国际版本中被悉数删去。
With “The Great Wall,” however, the challenge was flipped. Rather than adding Chinese elements, the filmmakers had to determine how to make a Chinese film with a Chinese subject, set in mainland China hundreds of years ago, appealing to global moviegoers.
然而在《长城》一片中，这个挑战则翻转了过来。制片方要决定的不是如何加入中国元素，而是如何让这部以中国为主题、场景设在数百年前中国的中国电影，吸引全世界的电影观众。
“This is the first time something like this is being attempted by a director like me who doesn’t speak English,” said Mr. Zhang. “If this film succeeds, it’s going to open a whole new space for U.S.-China co-productions, and it might inspire other forms of collaboration.”
“让一个不懂英语的中国导演来做，可说是破天荒的事情，”张艺谋说。“如果能成功，会让中美两国电影有更多的合作，也许还能启发新的合作形式。”
This is the first film primarily in English by Mr. Zhang, the director of “Hero” as well as art-house favorites like “Raise the Red Lantern” and “Red Sorghum.”
这是张艺谋首部以英文为主的电影。这位《英雄》的导演还拍过《大红灯笼高高挂》与《红高粱》等备受好评的艺术电影。
“The biggest challenge is to make sure that everyone understands the film, not only Chinese audiences but young people around the world,” Mr. Zhang added. “I asked many experts, what would foreigners think about this line and what about that line? How would Westerners see this?”
“最大的挑战在于要让所有人看懂，不光是中国人，还有全世界的年轻人。”张艺谋又说。“我问过很多专家，外国人会怎么看这句话，怎么看那句话？西方人会怎么看？”   
After several years of preparation, the project, which is being shot in mainland China, finally began filming in March and is scheduled to wrap in August.
在为时数年的筹备后，影片终于在三月于中国开拍，并预计于八月杀青。
While details of the plot remain under wraps, the filmmakers have disclosed that the story centers on an army of elite warriors who must transform the Great Wall into a weapon “in order to combat wave after wave of otherworldly creatures hellbent on devouring humanity.”
关于剧本的细节尚未公开，但制片方透露，故事将围绕一支精英部队展开，“为了对抗一心想毁灭人类的一批又一批怪兽”，这些战士必须把长城变成武器。
Mr. Damon stars as William Garin, a mercenary who comes from Europe to China with his sidekick Pero Tovar (played by Pedro Pascal, of HBO’s “Game of Thrones”).
达蒙将饰演雇佣兵威廉·加林，与跟班佩罗·托瓦（由HBO剧集《权力的游戏》演员佩德罗·帕斯卡尔[Pedro Pascal]饰演）一同从欧洲来到中国。
Willem Defoe, of “Platoon” and “The Grand Budapest Hotel,” plays Ballard, a “shadowy outsider.” Jing Tian, the film’s lead actress, is Lin Mae, the leader of the all-female aerial warriors of the Crane Corps. To increase the film’s appeal to younger audiences, the cast also includes young male heartthrobs like Chen Xuedong of “Tiny Times” and Wang Junkai of the boy band TFBoys, as well as Lu Han.
曾出演《野战排》(Platoon)和《布达佩斯大饭店》(The Grand Budapest Hotel)的威廉·达福(Willem Dafoe)将扮演“神秘局外人”巴拉德。电影的女主演林梅将由景甜饰演。这个角色是一支完全由女兵组成的飞锁部队“鹤军”的领导者。为了增加电影对年纪较轻的观众的吸引力，演员阵容中还包括《小时代》里的万人迷陈学冬、少男组合TFBoys中的王俊凯，以及鹿晗。
The film was conceived more than four years ago by Legendary Entertainment’s Thomas Tull, the producer behind such films as “The Dark Knight,” the “Hangover” trilogy and “300.”
传奇娱乐的托马斯·图尔(Thomas Tull)四年多前就产生了拍这部电影的想法。图尔是《黑暗骑士》(The Dark Knight)、《宿醉》(Hangover)三部曲和《斯巴达三百勇士》(300)等影片的制片人。
“Even though this film is about monsters attacking the Great Wall, the most attractive part of this film to me was its incorporation of Chinese culture,” said Mr. Zhang. “It’s hard to believe this story was developed by a Westerner.”
“虽然是一个长城打怪兽的故事，但也可以承载中国文化在里面，”张艺谋说。“很难想象是西方人开发的。”