The crowd of several hundred standing in the cold on an East Village street on Thursday night, mostly young and mostly Asian, could have been waiting for the latest K-pop band or a new Cronut. But what had them excited was the prospect of watching two men with a combined age of 121 talking about movies.
周四晚上，几百个人站在东村街上的寒风里——大部分是年轻人，大部分是亚洲人。他们本可能是在等待韩国流行乐团或者一款新的牛角甜甜圈。但是让他们兴奋的却是两个年龄加起来有121岁的男人将在这里谈论电影。
In a hastily arranged onstage conversation at Cooper Union, the pre-eminent filmmakers Ang Lee, 59, who won the best director Oscar last year for “Life of Pi,” and Zhang Yimou, 62, whose credits include “Ju Dou,” “Hero” and the Beijing Olympics opening ceremony, talked in Chinese for an hour and a half about “Chinese film and China’s confidence.”
在库珀联合大学(Cooper Union)匆忙安排的舞台对话中，杰出的电影导演李安和张艺谋用中文谈了一个半小时，关于“中国的电影和中国的信心”。59岁的李安去年凭借《少年派的奇幻漂流》(Life of Pi)获得了奥斯卡最佳导演奖；62岁的张艺谋的杰出作品包括《菊豆》、《英雄》和北京奥林匹克运动会开幕式。
Mr. Lee, looking like a suburban dad in dark blazer and khakis, and the ever-cool Mr. Zhang, in a black T-shirt and fashion-forward leather-patched jacket, took turns praising each other’s work and making ambivalent pronouncements about the present and future of the Chinese film industry. (Simultaneous English translation was provided through earphones.)
李安看起来像土气的大叔，穿着深色上衣和卡其裤；一直很酷的张艺谋穿着黑色T恤和前卫的皮革补丁夹克。他们轮流称赞彼此的作品，并对中国电影业的现状和未来发表了一些自相矛盾的见解（戴上耳机能够听到同声传译）。
Predicting that within five years the world’s filmmakers and distributors will all be “leaning forward to the Chinese market,” Mr. Zhang cautioned that the Chinese industry needed to place less emphasis on profits and “popcorn movies” and noted a lack of current Chinese films that were “full of imagination,” as well as good novels and stories to use as sources.
张艺谋预测，五年后，世界上的电影制作人和发行商都将“向中国市场倾斜”，同时他告诫中国电影业不要太看重票房和“爆米花电影”，指出中国现在缺乏“充满想象力”的电影以及根据优秀的小说和故事拍摄的电影。
“It’s easy to say we have good movies, but difficult to do it,” he said.
“好电影说起来容易，做起来不易，”他说。
Mr. Lee worried that mainland Chinese film, after a long fallow period, was growing too quickly with too great a focus on box office blockbusters. “Give the Chinese market some time,” he said. If it were allowed to naturally grow, he added, China could set an example for an American film industry that itself is “not very healthy.”
李安担心中国大陆的电影业在漫长的休息期后发展得太快，太关注票房大片。“多给中国市场一些时间吧，”他说。他补充说，如果能让中国电影业自然发展，它将给“并不健康的”美国电影业树立一个榜样。
The event was sponsored by the Tisch School of the Arts and LeTV, the online video site that owns Le Vision Pictures, a producer of Mr. Zhang’s latest film, “Coming Home,” set during the Cultural Revolution and starring Gong Li.
本次活动由提斯克艺术学院(Tisch School of the Arts)和网络视频网站乐视TV赞助。乐视TV下属的乐视影业是张艺谋的最新影片《归来》的制片方。《归来》以文化大革命为背景，由巩俐主演。
Asked by the moderator, the Tisch professor Christine Choy, about their next projects, both directors said as little as possible. But Mr. Zhang allowed that he was discussing a Hollywood project — “I think it’s a large project,” he said — which would be his first film in English, a language he doesn’t speak. There have been reports that he is in negotiations to direct an adaptation of a Robert Ludlum novel.
本次活动的主持人、提克斯艺术学院的教授崔明慧问起两位导演的下一部电影，他们都讳而不言。不过张艺谋透露，他正在讨论一个好莱坞项目——他说“我想它是个大制作”——那将是他的首部英语电影，而他不会说英语。有报道说，他正在协商导演一部根据罗伯特·拉德拉姆(Robert Ludlum)的小说。
Mr. Lee spoke about a movie related to “boxing and belief,” a project that was first reported last fall, but said he still needed to raise money and, in the wake of the visually spectacular “Life of Pi,” develop even newer camera technologies to tell the story the way he wanted.
李安提到一部跟“拳击和信仰”相关的电影，有关这个项目的报道始于去年秋天。但是他说他还需要筹集资金，追随《少年派的奇幻漂流》非凡的视觉效果，开发更新的摄影技术，以他想要的方式讲述故事。
When he was given the chance to pose a question to Mr. Lee, Mr. Zhang mentioned his colleague’s singular success working in both the Asian and American markets and asked, rather intently, “How do you make the world understand you?”
当张艺谋有机会向李安提问时，张艺谋提到了他的这位同行在亚洲和美国市场同时取得的不寻常的成功，他非常认真地问道：“你是怎么让这个世界懂你的？”