“Coming Home,” a new film by Zhang Yimou about the ravages wrought on a family by decades of political violence in China and how they (kind of) overcome them, stars Gong Li, his legendary muse. It made Steven Spielberg cry, the Chinese news media reported. Ang Lee, the Academy Award-winning director of “Life of Pi,” was “very moved” by it too, he said on Chinese television.
张艺谋的新片《归来》讲得是中国数十年的政治动荡给一个家庭带来的苦难，以及他们如何（在某种程度上）去克服困难的故事，影片由他的传奇女星巩俐担任主演。据中国新闻媒体报道，影片令史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)落泪。因《少年派的奇幻漂流》获得奥斯卡奖的李安也在接受中国电视采访时说，影片让他“很感动”。
Yet this emotionally powerful, richly nuanced, politically violent and historically contemplative movie, which opens May 16 in mainland China, June 12 in Hong Kong and in December in the United States, could have been called “Being Together,” said Zhang Zhao, the movie’s producer and the chief executive of Le Vision Pictures. (The film is also screening in some pre-release Mother’s Day events.)
该片将于5月16日在中国大陆上映，并将在6月12日和12月分别与香港和美国的观众见面。影片制片人、乐视影业首席执行官张昭说，这部情感强烈、细节丰富，充满政治动荡与历史沉思的电影，原本打算取名为《团聚》。（影片还会在一些母亲节活动中进行公映前的展映。）
That’s what Mr. Zhang, the director, was trying to say, Mr. Zhang said in an interview. The two men are not related. “This is really a love story. That’s the most powerful thing.” Despite the ending — spoiler alert!  — which shows personal loyalty triumphing and suggests an acceptance of the blows of fate, “it’s not a political metaphor,” he said. No one is telling Chinese to passively accept their fate. Rather, it suggests a survival strategy — love. “How are we going to overcome history?” Mr. Zhang asked. “We need to be together.”
张昭在一次采访中说，那正是导演张艺谋试图用影片去讲述的。“这其实是一个爱情故事。那是最强大的东西了。”尽管结尾——小心剧透！——展示了个人忠诚的胜利，并显露出对命运打击的接受，但他说，“这不是一个政治隐喻。”这绝对不是在说，要中国人被动地接受自己的命运，而是提出一种生存策略——爱。“我们要怎样才能克服历史的苦难？”张昭问道。“我们需要在一起。”
“Nobody can get away from whatever you inherit from your own history, from your parents and grandparents. So how do you treat history? How can you, the nation, the people, how you can survive history?” The answer is “family love,” he said.
张昭说：“没人能摆脱从自身经历、父母和祖父母那继承来的东西。那么你该如何对待历史？你、整个国家、全体人民如何在历史中幸存？”答案是“亲情”。
With that, “you can survive through whatever material poverty or political disasters or natural disasters, you can survive everything. That’s what the director is trying to say.”
有了亲情，“不论在什么样的物质贫困、政治灾难和自然灾害中，你都能挺过来，你能战胜一切。这是导演想表达的”。
There’s a lot to survive in “Coming Home,” which is based on a novel by Yan Geling, “The Criminal Lu Yanshi.”
在这部根据严歌苓小说《陆犯焉识》改编的电影中，有许多需要去战胜的东西。
While the action opens during the 10-year Cultural Revolution, its main male character, Lu Yanshi, played by Chen Daoming, is a political “rightist” who is already in jail. In total, he spends 20 years there. When he finally comes home his wife, Feng Wanyu, played by Ms. Gong, has crumpled under the weight of multiple tragedies that affect not only her husband but her daughter and herself, and she is in a state of traumatized forgetfulness. Her husband stands by her.
故事开始于文化大革命期间，陈道明饰演的男主角陆焉识是个被判入狱的“右派”。他在狱中共度过了20年。最终回家时，他的妻子、巩俐饰演的冯婉喻在丈夫、女人和她自己的多重悲剧重压下崩溃了，处于创伤性健忘的状态。而她的丈夫对她不离不弃。
At a private screening in Beijing, many viewers sat for a long time after the end, dabbing their reddened eyes, especially elderly ones, and it’s one of the film’s extraordinary strengths that it deals with the process of aging so sensitively — a major challenge for China, where the population is graying fast.
在北京的一场点映中，许多观众在电影结束后久久没有起身，擦拭着发红的眼睛，特别是年长者。影片非常细腻地处理了变老的过程，这正是其特别突出的一个亮点———在人口快速老龄化的中国，衰老是一大挑战。
For Ms. Gong, playing Feng Wanyu, a character who moves between memory and forgetfulness, “is tough, the most tough thing to do,” Zhang Zhao said.
张昭说，对巩俐而言，扮演在记忆和健忘之间徘徊的冯婉喻这个角色“是无比艰难的一件事”。
“It’s about her own history,” he said. And Ms. Gong, long known as a great beauty as well as talent, plays an elderly woman.
他说：“这与她自己的经历有关。”多年来一直以美貌与才能兼备而著称的巩俐，此次扮演的是一名老年女性。
Ms. Gong is from China but left to live overseas, then returned. “And of course she is in that age,” he said of the 48-year-old actress, “so she has got a lot of experience about what is love, what is family.”
巩俐出生于中国，后来曾出国定居，之后又回国。张昭在谈及这位48岁的女演员时说：“她自己也处于那个年纪，因此她对什么是爱、什么是生活有很多体验。”
“Gong Li said to me, Yimou’s films are becoming deeper and deeper, so for her as an actress it’s harder and harder to give a good performance. She was saying that if she can get this accomplished, she can call herself a good actress,” Mr. Zhang said.
张昭说：“巩俐对我说，艺谋的电影越来越有深度，因此对她来说，作为一名演员也越来越难演好。她说过，如果她能胜任这个角色，她就能自称为一名好演员了。”
The producers are hoping to connect especially to younger people, who they feel do not really understand what their parents went through. And the film suggests, painfully but accurately, that in a person’s life, the trauma is never over. It can only be managed, through loving loyalty.
影片的制片人们希望电影能特别打动年轻人，因为他们认为年轻人不能真正理解父母一代所经历的苦难。这部电影令人痛苦却又准确地表明，在人的一生中，心灵的创伤永远不会消失，只能通过爱的忠诚去设法抚平。
But the film represents something else, Mr. Zhang said — a “coming together” of the director and his long-term muse, who were once romantically linked and whose deep collaboration began with “Red Sorghum,” the 1987 film based on a novel by Mo Yan, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2012. The film shot them both to international fame.
但张昭说，电影还呈现了另外一层含义———导演和他长期以来的搭档的“团聚”。两人曾坠入爱河，双方的深度合作始于1987年根据莫言小说改编拍摄的电影《红高粱》，这部电影让两人在国际上一举成名。莫言则在2012年获得了诺贝尔文学奖。
“A lot of this film is very much about Gong Li and Yimou,” said Zhang Zhao, referring to Zhang Yimou, “coming back together as actress and film director. They are such a legendary couple of the Chinese screen. It’s a great thing.” They collaborated in 2006 in “Curse of the Golden Flower,” but that was a “commercial film,” Mr. Zhang said.
张昭说：“《归来》在相当程度上是关于巩俐和张艺谋的，他们作为演员和导演再次携手。在中国电影界，他们是非常传奇的一对搭档。”张昭说，两人在2006年合作拍摄了《满城尽带黄金甲》，但那是一部“商业电影”。
“Coming Home” examines history and society itself.
《归来》探究的是历史和社会本身。
“In a developing country like China, of course we Chinese people are constantly fighting against all kinds of disasters. Natural disasters, man-made disasters, you know, all kinds of disasters,” Mr. Zhang said. “But we, the Chinese people, are going to keep fighting.”
“在这样一个发展中国家，中国人当然会不停地要抗击各种灾难———自然灾害、人为灾难，什么都有，”张昭说，“但是我们中国人从未停止过抗争。”
“Our material lives are much much better compared to 20 or 30 or 40 years ago, but what this film is trying to say is” that family love is essential to surviving “whatever material poverty or political disasters or natural disasters may befall.
“与20年前、30年前或40年前相比，我们的物质生活有很大程度的提高，但电影试图表明的是，不论发生什么灾难，物质贫困、政治灾难还是自然灾害，”亲情对于生存都至关重要。
“You can survive everything, that’s what the director is trying to say,” he said.
“一切都是能挺过来的，这是导演想说的东西，”他说。
The film will screen at the Cannes Film Festival, which opens next Wednesday, but is not in competition.
《归来》将在下周三开幕的戛纳电影节上放映，但未进入竞赛单元。