After months of silence on the issue, acclaimed Chinese film director Zhang Yimou has admitted to having two sons and a daughter with his current wife, in contravention of China’s family planning rules.
在沉默了数月之后，备受赞誉的中国电影导演张艺谋承认，他与现任妻子育有两子一女，违反了中国的计划生育规定。
According to an open letter published Sunday night on his office’s official microblog, Mr. Zhang and his wife, the actress Chen Ting, are ready to cooperate fully with local family planning authorities and accept any fine that might be imposed.It was the first time that Mr. Zhang, who is known for directing films such as “Red Sorghum,” as well as the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, has publicly responded to allegations that first surfaced online in May that he had fathered seven children with four different women. The statement Sunday, signed “Yimou’s Office,” also offered “sincere apologies for the negative social impact” brought about by the controversy.
张艺谋工作室的官方微博周日晚间发布公开信称，张艺谋和她的妻子、女演员陈婷愿意全力配合当地计生部门的工作，并接受相应罚款。张艺谋因执导过《红高粱》等影片以及2008年北京奥运会开幕式而蜚声中外。今年5月份网络上出现关于他与四名不同女性育有七名子女的传闻之后，这是张艺谋首次对相关指责做出回应。周日公开信的落款是“艺谋工作室”。信中还表示，“由此造成的不良影响，在此向公众致以诚挚的歉意。”
Interest in the story was reignited last month when officials in Ms. Chen’s hometown of Wuxi, in Jiangsu Province, told Xinhua, the official news agency, that repeated attempts to reach Mr. Zhang in connection with an investigation into the allegations had been futile. The Xinhua report prompted widespread mockery, with one Nanjing-based newspaper even running a large missing persons ad for the director on its front page.
上个月，陈婷老家江苏无锡的官员告诉新华社，在对上述传闻的调查中，该机构反复联系张艺谋未果。新华社的报道引发了公众的大肆嘲讽。南京的一家报纸甚至在头版用很大篇幅刊出了寻找张艺谋的寻人启事。
The statement Sunday came several days after an agent for the director and his wife arrived in Wuxi to “answer accusations that the couple has violated China’s one-child policy,” according to Xinhua.
据新华社报道，在周日发表公开信的几天前，张艺谋和他妻子已委托代理人去无锡“接受有关夫妇二人违反中国独生子女政策的调查”。
The statement, the authenticity of which was confirmed by associates of Mr. Zhang, denied that the director had fathered several children out of wedlock with other women. It also blamed unidentified individuals with “ulterior motives” for spreading false information and violating the privacy of the director and his family. “We are currently collecting the relevant evidence and reserve the right to take legal action,” the statement said.
张艺谋的几个朋友已经证实了这封公开信的真实性。公开信否认张艺谋和其他女性有非婚生子女。公开信还指责一些“别有用心”的个人散布虚假信息，侵犯张艺谋及其家人的隐私。公开信说，“我们正在收集和整理相关证据，将保留追究其法律责任的权利。”
It is unclear how much Mr. Zhang could be fined. The director has a daughter from his first marriage, and provincial family planning regulations in Jiangsu would typically allow only one additional child for his new marriage. That would mean he has had two children more than permitted, which usually triggers a penalty of five to eight times the average disposable income in the region, for a total of about $48,000 in Wuxi.
目前还不清楚张艺谋会被处以多少罚款。张艺谋与前妻育有一女，根据江苏省的计生规定，在第二次婚姻中只能再生一个孩子。这意味着他有两名子女超生，这通常会引发数额为该地区人均可支配收入五到八倍的罚款，在无锡，这个数字约为人民币29万元。
But regulations in Jiangsu also call for an additional fine on those who earn more than double the average local income. That fine is based on the difference between the couple’s actual income and the local average. For Mr. Zhang — almost certainly one of China’s most well-paid directors — that could add up. Local authorities in Wuxi have already called on Mr. Zhang to disclose his full income. The official People’s Daily newspaper previously estimated the fine could total up to $26.2 million.
不过，江苏的监管机构还要求对收入是当地平均收入两倍以上的超生者征收额外的罚款。具体数额取决于夫妻的实际收入和当地的平均收入之差。对于张艺谋——几乎毫无疑问是中国薪酬最高的导演之一来说，这可能不是个小数。无锡当地部门已经要求张艺谋披露全部收入。中国官方媒体《人民日报》之前估计，罚款总数可能达到约人民币1.6亿元。