China’s most internationally known film director, Zhang Yimou, and his wife are likely to be $1.24 million poorer after a government office on Thursday ordered the couple to pay a fine for violating family planning limits by having three children.
国际上最知名的中国导演张艺谋及其妻子可能会变穷点儿：一家政府办公室周四宣布判处他们749万元人民币的罚款，因为他们违反了计划生育的限制，生了三个孩子。
A district family planning bureau in Wuxi, a lakeside city in eastern China where Mr. Zhang’s wife, Chen Ting, officially resides, announced the 7.49 million-renminbi fine for “seriously” violating the rules, the China News Service, a state-run agency, reported. The penalty followed months of Chinese media speculation about how many children Mr. Zhang had fathered, why he had apparently escaped the rules that limit most urban couples to one child, and why officials in Wuxi had found it impossible to track down one of the country’s most recognizable faces.
据国家媒体中国新闻网报道，无锡的一个计划生育局宣布，张艺谋夫妇违反计划生育法“情节严重”、被罚款约749万元，无锡是张艺谋妻子陈婷的户口所在地。这份处罚是在中国媒体热议了数月来之后宣布的，人们一直在质疑张艺谋到底有几个孩子，为什么他公然违反限制大多数城市夫妇只生一个孩子的规定，为什么无锡的官员称无法找到这个在中国最容易被认出的人之一。
The officials went to Beijing to try to find the couple and wrote to them more than 10 times, the China News Service said, citing an unnamed family planning official in the city.
中新网援引无锡市一位未具名的计生局官员的话说，计生局官员曾去北京寻找这对夫妻，还曾给他们发过10多封信函。
“There was never any effective response, and this created some difficulty for investigating and collecting evidence,” the China News Service report said. “When the couple had the three children, they had not carried out marriage registration procedures and did not obtain birth permit documents from the population and family planning authorities.”
“始终没得到有效回应，这给调查取证工作带来了一定难度，”中新网的报道称，“在生育三个子女时，两人未办理结婚登记手续，且均未取得人口计生部门批准生育的证件。”
Mr. Zhang and Ms. Chen can appeal the fine. Attempts to contact them through a representative of Mr. Zhang drew no response.
张艺谋和陈婷可以对罚款进行上诉。记者试图通过张艺谋的一位代理联系他们，但没有得到回应。
In November, the Communist Party leadership endorsed proposals to relax family size restrictions slightly, so that more urban couples can have two children. (The changes would not affect this case.) But Mr. Zhang, famed for his ornate dramas, became the focus of a public uproar on the Internet over why quite a few wealthy and well-connected Chinese people had already been able to evade those restrictions and have had more than one child.
去年11月，中国共产党领导人通过了一项提案，将略微放松对家庭人数的限制，允许更多的城市夫妇可以生育两个孩子。（这些变化不影响此案。）然而，以执导色彩华丽的戏剧片著名的张艺谋成了互联网上公众舆论的焦点，网民们质疑，为什么中国的一些富人和有关系的人已经能逃避这些限制，生更多的孩子。
Mr. Zhang and Ms. Chen are unlikely to face serious hardship paying the fine, but poor rural residents can struggle to meet penalties for having more than two children — the number usually tolerated in the countryside. Two dozen Chinese provinces, regions and provincial-level cities have disclosed that they took in a total of 20 billion renminbi, or about $3.3 billion, last year in “social support” fines for family planning violations. Other provincial-level governments have refused to reveal how much they took.
掏出这笔罚款可能不会让张艺谋和陈婷陷入困境，但贫穷的农村居民往往为生了两个以上的孩子需要支付罚款而挣扎，在农村生两个孩子通常没有问题。中国有二十几个省、自治区和直辖市曾公布，他们去年对违反计划生育的家庭总共征收了200亿人民币的“社会抚养费”。其余的省级政府拒绝公布他们征收的数额。
Mr. Zhang has acknowledged having a daughter from his first marriage. Provincial family planning regulations would usually allow only one more child for his new marriage with Ms. Chen. He had two sons and a daughter with Ms. Chen before they married in 2011, the China News Service said.
张艺谋承认与前妻育有一女。省计划生育规定通常会允许在他和陈婷的二次婚姻中能再生一个孩子。中新网的报道称，张艺谋在2011年与陈婷登记结婚之前，他们已经有两个儿子和一个女儿。
Mr. Zhang, 62, began his career directing films in the 1980s, and was later embraced by the Communist Party government as a symbol of homegrown — and loyal — cultural success. He directed the spectacular opening and closing ceremonies for the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.
张艺谋现年62岁，他的电影导演生涯始于20世纪80年代，他后来作为本土的—以及忠心耿耿的—文化成功的象征，得到中国共产党的推崇。他执导了2008年北京奥运会开幕式和闭幕式的盛大仪式。
Mr. Zhang and his wife at first avoided publicly commenting on the controversy. But after officials announced the couple had violated the rules, the couple expressed contrition, including in interviews with state-run media. In late December, Mr. Zhang told the official news agency, Xinhua, that he had fathered more than one child to follow family expectations of creating male heirs to carry on the ancestral line.
张艺谋及其妻子最初曾回避公开对此争议发表评论。但在政府部门宣布他们违反了规定后，他们表示了歉意，包括在接受国家媒体采访中。12月底，张艺谋在接受国家通讯社新华社的采访时称，根据生个男孩传宗接代的家庭期待，他多生了孩子。
“Now when I think about it, it really was a huge mistake,” said Mr. Zhang, who does not have a reputation for humility. “The brand I’d created for myself with so much painful effort through my work was destroyed in one blow.”
不以谦逊著称的张艺谋说，“我必须承认错误并承担一切后果。其实辛辛苦苦用作品在社会上为自己建立了这种信誉和建立了影响是很艰难的。超生这件事情，对我造成极大的损害和损伤。”
Despite their apologies, Mr. Zhang and Ms. Chen disputed the officials’ estimates of their past income, which were used to calculate the size of the fine, a propaganda office in Wuxi said in December. But the family planning bureau of Binhu District in Wuxi apparently rejected their claims and brought down the fine, which must be paid in 30 days unless the couple appeals.
尽管他们道了歉，但张艺谋和陈婷还是对其过去收入的官方估计有争议，罚款额度的计算基于他们过去的收入。但是，无锡滨湖区计生局看来驳回了他们的说法，向他们发出这个罚单，如果不提出上诉的话，他们必须在30天以内上交罚款。 