President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia celebrated his 64th birthday on Friday with an outsize gift from his country’s Parliament: a bouquet of 450 roses, one from each member of the State Duma, or lower house of Parliament.
周五，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)用一份来自该国议会的特大号礼物庆祝了自己的64岁生日：由450支玫瑰组成的一大束鲜花。它们来自俄罗斯国家杜马，也就是议会下院的议员，每人一支。
Russian men frequently receive large bouquets of flowers on their birthday, and Mr. Putin has used the occasion to generate positive publicity and burnish a cult of personality.
俄罗斯男性常会在生日时收到大束鲜花。普京借这个机会进行了正面的宣传，加强个人崇拜。
“Let’s send him a basket in gratitude for his incessant labor,” said Valentina V. Tereshkova, a lawmaker who made history in 1963 as the first woman in space.
“咱们送他一个花篮，以感谢他坚持不懈的工作吧，”因在1963年成为首个进入太空的女性而创造历史的议员瓦莲京娜·V·捷列什科娃(Valentina V. Tereshkova)说。
Russians presumed that the bouquet sent to Mr. Putin might actually contain 449 or 451 roses, because an even number of flowers is traditionally reserved for funerals.
俄罗斯人推测送给普京的那束花可能实际上有449朵或451朵，因为双数的花朵数传统上用于葬礼。
Last year Mr. Putin celebrated his birthday by playing hockey in Sochi with Russian stars of the National Hockey League, Defense Minister Sergei K. Shoigu and a several billionaires.
去年，普京庆祝生日的方式是和北美冰球联盟(National Hockey League)的俄罗斯球星，以及国防部长谢尔盖·K·绍伊古(Sergei K. Shoigu)和几名亿万富翁在索契打冰球。
The president’s team won, naturally, and he scored seven goals.
当然，总统所在的队伍赢了，他进了七个球。
Mr. Putin’s press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the Russian leader would not participate in public events on his birthday this year and would instead celebrate with family and close friends.
普京的发言人德米特里·S.·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)表示，这位俄罗斯领导人今年不会在生日当天参加公开活动，而是会与家人和密友一起庆祝。
Despite the modest festivities, congratulations poured in from across Russia. Patriarch Kirill I of the Russian Orthodox Church praised Mr. Putin for devoting his “life to the service of Russia,” and said his “name is connected with a number of events that have already entered the annals of national and world history.”
尽管庆祝活动有限，但祝福从俄罗斯全国各地涌来。俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)大牧首基里尔一世(Patriarch Kirill I)称赞普京“一生致力于服务俄罗斯”，并表示他的“名字和诸多已被载入国家和世界史册的事件相连”。
Birthdays are frequently used by leaders of former Soviet states to create pageants of national unity. Some more authoritarian leaders have even declared their birthdays national holidays.
前苏联国家的领导人常常利用生日来制造国家团结统一的场面。一些更专制的领导人甚至将自己的生日定为国家法定假日。
Ramzan A. Kadyrov, the leader of Chechnya who won 98 percent of the vote in last month’s presidential election, was inaugurated for a third term on Wednesday, a day picked to coincide with his 40th birthday.
在上月的总统选举中得票率高达98%的车臣领导人拉姆赞·A·卡德罗夫(Ramzan A. Kadyrov)选在周三就职，开始第三届任期。当天是他的40岁生日。
“Today is the birthday of the strongest and most outstanding politician of modern times — the President of Russia Vladimir Putin,” Mr. Kadyrov said via social media on Friday.
“今天是现代历史上最强大、最杰出的政治家——俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京的生日，”卡德罗夫周五通过社交媒体表示。
In 2013, Jennifer Lopez sang at the 56th birthday party of Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, president of Turkmenistan. After being criticized by human rights activists, Ms. Lopez issued an apology. Her publicist said she would not have accepted the invitation if she had known about Turkmenistan’s record of abuse.
2013年，詹妮弗·洛佩茲(Jennifer Lopez)在土库曼斯坦总统库尔班古力·别尔德穆哈梅多夫(Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov)的56岁生日宴会上献声。遭到人权活动人士的指责后，洛佩茲发布了道歉声明。她的宣传人员称，如果知道土库曼斯坦侵犯人权的前科，洛佩茲就不会接受邀请了。
Mr. Berdymukhammedov’s predecessor, Saparmurat Niyazov, who once erected a gold statue in his likeness, commemorated his birthday each year on Flag Day.
别尔德穆哈梅多夫的前任萨帕尔穆拉特·尼亚佐夫(Saparmurat Niyazov)曾竖了一尊和自己相像的金色雕像。他会在每年的国旗日(Flag Day)庆祝自己的生日。
Citizens, however, knew which celebration was the true state holiday.
然而，民众知道哪一个是真正的国家节日。