ROME — An earthquake, believed to be the strongest to hit Italy since 1980, struck the center of the country on Sunday, four days after two back-to-back quakes severely damaged buildings and leaving thousands homeless in the area. The temblor on Sunday also caused fresh damage to the towns destroyed by a quake that killed nearly 300 people in August.
罗马——周日，意大利中部发生了据信是自1980年以来该国最强烈的一次地震，而在那四天前已经连续发生了两次导致建筑物毁损严重、成千上万民众无家可归的地震。周日的地震还给一些在8月份的地震中遭到破坏的城镇带来了新的灾情，那次地震有近300人遇难。
The quake, which had a magnitude of 6.5, according to Italy’s national geophysical and volcanology institute, struck at 7:41 a.m. with its epicenter near Norcia. It was felt as far away as Bolzano, in northern Italy, Rome, and Puglia in the south, according to Italian news reports.
意大利国家地球物理和火山研究所表示，这次地震为6.5级，发生在早上7时41分，震中位于诺尔恰(Norcia)附近。据意大利新闻机构报道，罗马、北部城市博尔扎诺(Bolzano)和南部城市普利亚(Puglia)均有震感。
Most of the towns in the area had already been evacuated after the recent seismic activity, so there were no immediate reports of deaths.
由于该地区大多数城镇的居民在最近的地震活动之后已经疏散，所以没有马上出现死亡报告。
Fabrizio Curcio, the head of Italy’s civil protection department, said that four hours after the quake, there had been about 20 people injured but none killed. “It was an important earthquake,” he said noting that helicopters were being used to transport people to hospitals because some roads had been closed off.
意大利民防部门负责人法布里奇奥·库尔乔(Fabrizio Curcio)说，地震发生4个小时后的数据是大约20人受伤，但无人死亡。“这是一次重大地震，”他指出，因为一些道路已经被封闭，他们派出了直升机运送伤员到医院。
Search-and-rescue teams had been activated and were converging on the area, Curcio added, and mayors were verifying the conditions of residents in smaller hamlets.
库尔乔说，他们已经组织了多支搜索和救援小组前往该地区救灾，各市市长正在核实小村庄居民的状况。
“We can’t assist people while they are still in the earthquake zone,” said Curcio, explaining why residents of the stricken cities were being deployed to hotels on the coast and other areas. “This was a 6.5, we haven’t had an earthquake of this magnitude since 1980, so there are a series of controls we have to carry out,” he said, adding that people would be assisted better outside the earthquake areas.
库尔乔解释了为什么受灾城镇的居民被安排到了海岸和其他地区的酒店里，“如果人们依然留在震区，我们就无法帮助他们。”他说，“这是一场6.5级的地震，从1980年起我们就没有发生过这样大的地震了，所以需要采取一系列必须的控制措施。”他又补充，到了震区之外，灾民将会获得更好的帮助。
Electrical power was out for many thousands of residences, many roads were blocked by fallen masses or crevices, and several sections of the Salaria, the most important highway in the area, were not accessible, Curcio said.
库尔乔表示，数以千计的住宅受到停电影响，倒塌物和裂缝导致很多道路停用，该地区最重要的高速公路萨拉里亚有几个路段无法通行。
At a news conference, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi vowed to rebuild damaged areas.
在新闻发布会上，意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)誓言要重建灾区。
The Italian government allocated 40 million euros, about $44 million, to the stricken zones after Wednesday’s quakes, and on Sunday he said more would be set aside to deal with the fresh damage.
上周三的地震发生之后，意大利政府已拨款4000万欧元给受灾地区，伦齐周日表示将划拨更多的资金，用于应对新的损失。