President Vladimir V. Putin exerted new control over Russia’s state news media on Monday, dissolving by decree one of Russia’s official news agencies, RIA Novosti, along with its international radio broadcaster as he continues a drive to strengthen the Kremlin’s influence at home and abroad.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)周一加大了对俄罗斯国有媒体的控制，下令撤销了俄罗斯的一家官方通讯社俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)和它旗下的国际广播电台。与此同时，普京仍在努力扩大克里姆林宫(Kremlin)在国内外的影响力。
The decision shutters a decades old state-run news agency widely viewed as offering professional and semi-independent coverage, while putting a reconstituted news service in the hands of a Kremlin loyalist. Since returning for a third time as president last year, Mr. Putin has taken several steps that critics have denounced as a strangulation of political rights and open debate, concentrating power in an ever tighter circle of allies.
普京的决定是关闭这家有几十年历史、被普遍认为提供了专业和半独立新闻报道的国有新闻通讯社，并将重组后的新闻机构交由克里姆林宫的亲信掌管。自从普京去年第三次担任总统以来，他采取的一些行动受到了批评人士的谴责，后者认为，这些行动扼杀了政治权利和公开辩论，并把权力集中在了一个范围更小的精英圈子里。
The decree comes at a time when Russia has become increasingly assertive on the world stage, most recently in the tug of war with the European Union over political and economic relations with Ukraine, a country with deep historical and cultural links that Mr. Putin and others here believe bind it to Russia, not the West.
普京签署上述命令之际，俄罗斯在世界舞台上的姿态也越发强硬，俄罗斯与欧盟最近在与乌克兰政治和经济关系上的拉锯战就是一个例子。普京以及俄罗斯的一些其他人认为，乌克兰的历史和文化渊源把该国与俄罗斯紧密联系在一起，而不是与西方国家。
The Kremlin’s intense lobbying and strong-arming of Ukraine’s embattled president, Viktor F. Yanukovich, has been a principal grievance of the hundreds of thousands who have poured into the streets in the last two weeks. The reorganization of Russia’s state news media came only two days after a meeting between the two leaders — and unconfirmed rumors that they had reached a secret deal to forge a strategic partnership — served to intensify the protests.
俄罗斯政府对处境艰难的乌克兰总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovich)发起的紧密游说和胁迫，是过去两周涌上街头的数十万乌克兰抗议者的最大不满。就在这家俄罗斯官方媒体被迫重组的两天前，这两位领导人刚刚举行了会晤——而且，未经证实的传闻称，他们达成了一项建立战略伙伴关系的秘密协议——这令抗议活动进一步加剧。
Mr. Putin’s presidential chief of staff, Sergei B. Ivanov, said the decision to close the news service was part of an effort to reduce costs and make the state news media more efficient. But RIA Novosti’s report on its own demise said the changes “appear to point toward a tightening of state control in the already heavily regulated media sector.” Its executive editor, Svetlana Mironyuk, the first woman to lead the agency, appeared before her stunned colleagues and apologized for failing to preserve what she called the best news organization ever built by state money, according to a video recording of the meeting.
普京的总统办公厅主任谢尔盖·B·伊万诺夫(Sergei B. Ivanov)说，之所以关闭俄新社部分是为了降低成本，提高官方新闻机构的效率。但是俄新社自身关于其被撤销的报道说，这些变动“似乎表明，政府对业已受到严厉监管的媒体行业加紧了控制”。一段会议视频显示，面对震惊不已的同事们，俄新社执行主编、也是领导该社的首位女性斯维特兰娜·米罗纽科(Svetlana Mironyuk)为没能保住俄新社而道歉。她把俄新社称作用国家的钱建立的最好的新闻机构。
The two agencies will be absorbed into a new state media organization known as Rossiya Sevodnya, or Russia Today. In a separate decree, Mr. Putin appointed Dmitry K. Kiselyov as executive director of the organization. Mr. Kiselyov, a television executive and host, is an avowed pro-Kremlin figure who has provoked controversy with starkly homophobic remarks and virulent commentary suggesting foreign conspiracies are threatening Russia.
两家机构将合并成一家新的国有媒体机构——“今日俄罗斯”(Rossiya Sevodnya)。普京还下令，任命德米特里·K·基谢廖夫(Dmitry K. Kiselyov)为该机构总经理。基谢廖夫是一名电视行业高管和主持人，也是公开支持克里姆林宫著名人物，他不加掩饰地恐同言论，以及暗示外国阴谋正对俄罗斯构成威胁的极端评论曾经引发争议。
The decrees caught the agencies’ employees, its executives, and even some government officials by surprise. Mr. Putin made the changes without prior notice or public debate, as is often the case here. His decree said that the new agency would focus on providing news about Russia to an international audience; the agency’s directors will be directly appointed by the president’s office.
普京的这些命令让这两家机构的员工、高管，甚至一些政府官员感到震惊。普京没有提前通知或者经过公开讨论就做出了这些决定，这在俄罗斯并不鲜见。他在总统令中说，新的机构将专注于面向国际受众报道俄罗斯；该机构的高管将直接由总统办公厅任命。
The reasons behind the timing were unclear and, to many, puzzling. RIA Novosti is one of the official sponsors of the Winter Olympics to be held in the Russian resort of Sochi in February, and its employees have been deeply involved in organizing preparations for news coverage there. There have been some calls for boycotting the Games, citing Russian policies, including a new law prohibiting advocacy of nontraditional sexual relationships, that have prompted harsh criticism from rights organizations.
这项决定的时机选择令许多人感到困惑，其原因目前尚不清楚。俄新社是明年2月将在俄罗斯度假胜地索契举行的冬奥会的官方赞助商之一，其工作人员一直在深度参与赛事新闻报道的预备组织工作。目前已经有一些人呼吁抵制这次比赛，他们的理由是，俄罗斯的一些政策引发了人权组织的尖锐批评，其中包括一部禁止宣扬非传统性关系的新法律。
“Russia has its own independent politics and strongly defends its national interests,” Mr. Ivanov, a close ally of Mr. Putin’s, said in remarks to reporters, according to RIA Novosti. “It’s difficult to explain this to the world, but we can do this and we must do this.”
据俄新社报道，普京的亲密盟友伊万诺夫在对记者发表讲话时说，“俄罗斯有独立的政治体制，将有力地捍卫国家利益。很难向世界解释这么做的原因，但是我们能够这么做，也必须这么做。”
He suggested that Russia had had some difficulties in successfully explaining its views abroad. “We must tell the truth, make it accessible to the most people possible and use modern language and the best available technologies in doing so,” he added.
他暗示，俄罗斯在向海外阐述自己的观点时遇到了一些困难。他补充说，“我们必须报道真相，让尽可能多的人了解到真相，并且使用现代的语言和现有的最先进技术来做到这一点。”
RIA Novosti’s roots extend to World War II, when it was founded as the Soviet Information Bureau two days after the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. According to the agency, it has correspondents in 45 countries and provides reports in Russian and 13 other languages.
俄新社的历史可以追溯到第二次世界大战时，它是在纳粹入侵苏联两天后成立的，当时叫做苏联新闻社(Soviet Information Bureau)。俄新社称，该机构目前在45个国家派驻了记者，用俄语及另外13种语言进行报道。
It was renamed after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, and while it continued to serve as an official news agency, its reporting has earned greater respect for its balance and diversity of viewpoints.
苏联在1991年解体后，这家机构更名，尽管仍然是一家官方通讯社，但它凭借平衡和视角多元的报道赢得了更多尊重。
That troubled at least some here. Maxim L. Shevchenko, a prominent television personality, called the reorganization “a sensible step” in a post on Twitter. “The nest of anti-Russian media forces has been destroyed,” he wrote.
不过，该机构的报道至少在俄罗斯国内，还是引发了一些人的不满。电视名人马克西姆·L·舍甫琴科(Maxim L. Shevchenko)在Twitter上说，这次重组是“明智的举动”。他写道，“反俄罗斯媒体力量的老巢被彻底摧毁了。”
That an official news agency could be considered hostile to its own government reflected some deep divisions within Russia’s political elite. The new agency’s name, Rossiya Sevodnya, is the original name of the Kremlin’s international television network, now re-branded simply as RT and known for its jaundiced view of the United States and other Western countries. The decree, which takes effect immediately, did not link the two organizations.
一家官方通讯社竟然被认为对本国政府存有敌意，这反映出，俄罗斯政治精英内部存在一些深层次的分歧。新机构的名称“今日俄罗斯”是俄罗斯官方的国际电视台的原名。那家电视台已经更名为RT，以其对美国和其他西方国家的偏颇立场而著称。普京的总统令在签署之时立即生效，总统令并没有把两家机构联系在一起。
Aleksei A. Navalny, the anti-corruption blogger and opposition leader, lamented the demise of a “strong Soviet brand” in his own posting on Twitter and said “Russia Today,” as a brand, was “something repulsive.”
反腐败博客作者、反对派领导人物阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)在Twitter账户上对一个“强大的苏联品牌”的消亡表达了惋惜。他说，“今日俄罗斯”这个品牌“让人厌恶”。
Andrei Miroshnichenko, an independent media critic here, said RIA Novosti and the other state news agency, Itar-Tass, had in effect competed for resources and influence. He said RIA Novosti had become the most respected news agency in the former Soviet Union, one he associated closely with the presidency of Dmitri A. Medvedev, who has served as prime minister since Mr. Putin returned to the presidency last year. In that way, dismantling the news service is another step by Mr. Putin to erase any legacy of Mr. Medvedev’s presidency, and his “modernization initiative.”
俄罗斯独立媒体批评人士安德烈·米罗什尼琴科(Andrei Miroshnichenko)说，实际上俄新社与另一家国有通讯社俄通社-塔斯社(Itar-Tass)在竞争资源和影响力上存在竞争。他说，俄新社在前苏联时代成为了最受尊重的新闻社，他还认为俄新社与德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)的总统任期有紧密的关系。自从普京去年重新担任总统之后，梅德韦杰夫一直担任总理。这样来看，解散这家新闻机构是普京清除梅德韦杰夫作为总统，及其“现代化纲领”的遗产的又一步行动。
The new agency, Mr. Miroshnichenko said, would now revert to its mission before the dawn of “the post-Soviet era” as an arm of “foreign propaganda,” while Itar-Tass would focus on domestic news.
米罗什尼琴科说，这家新闻社又会回到过去，承担起“后苏联时代”前夕，作为“对外宣传”机构的使命，而俄塔社将专注于国内新闻。