A massive snowstorm that blanketed the East Coast moved out to sea on Sunday, leaving 28 people dead, near-record snowfall in some major cities and heavy flooding along the coast. Residents emerged with snowplows and shovels, and tens of thousands of stranded travelers were scrambling to get to their destinations or find alternate arrangements.
周日，笼罩在东海岸的大型暴风雪转移到了海上。已经有28人在这场暴风雪中丧生，一些大城市降雪量接近历史纪录，沿海发生严重洪灾。居民纷纷带着扫雪机和铲雪锹出门。数以万计的滞留旅客抓紧时间赶往目的地，或者另作安排。
The morning arrived on the Eastern Seaboard with low temperatures and clear skies, as states and cities assessed the storm’s impact and outlined cleanup efforts that could last well into the week.
周日上午的东海岸气温较低，天空晴朗，各州和市开始评估这场风暴的影响，安排清理工作。清理可能会持续好几天。
In New York City, where the storm left more than 30 inches of snow in some parts, grappling with its sheer volume was the next order of business.
在纽约市，某些地区的降雪量超过30英寸，眼下的大事就是处理大量的积雪。
Alternate-side parking rules were suspended through Friday, and Mayor Bill de Blasio urged residents to stay off the streets and leave cars parked to help speed snow removal efforts. Schools will be open on Monday, he said, and sanitation crews were pressed to get roads prepared for school buses to begin their early morning routes. Mr. de Blasio said he hoped higher temperatures expected this week would also help clear the snow.
上周五，纽约市暂停执行街道换侧停车规定，纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)呼吁市民不要上街，不要开车，以加快除雪工作的进度。学校将在周一开放，他说，环卫人员已受命准备好道路，以便校车可以在清晨开行。本周预计会出现升温，白思豪说他希望这将有助于清理积雪。
Snow stopped falling around 10 p.m. on Saturday, leaving a total of 26.8 inches in Central Park, according to the National Weather Service, the second-highest amount recorded since 1869.
降雪在周六晚上10点左右停止，中央公园降雪量达26.8英寸，国家气象局的记录显示，这是自1869年以来的第二高降雪量。
The city’s snowfall was still less than that of parts of Maryland and West Virginia, where in some parts 40 inches had fallen. The storm which caused more than 10 states on the Eastern Seaboard to declare states of emergency, killed 28 on Saturday, according to The Associated Press. Several of the people, including a 94-year-old man in Smithtown on Long Island, appeared to have died while clearing snow, according to news reports.
马里兰州和西弗吉尼亚州局部地区的降雪量比纽约市更高，一些地区达40英寸。东海岸十多个州因这场暴风雪宣布进入紧急状态，据美联社(The Associated Press)报道，上周六有28人丧生。报道称，有几个人，其中包括一名住在长岛史密斯镇的94岁男子，似乎是在清理积雪的过程中身亡的。
As the Washington region transitioned from blizzard mode to cleanup mode, residential neighborhoods in the northwest part of the city and Maryland suburbs were buried under two feet of snow, and many streets had not yet been plowed. Two major highways in Maryland — Interstates 70 and 270 — that were closed overnight by Gov. Larry Hogan reopened early Sunday.
随着华盛顿地区暴风雪暂停，转入清扫阶段，该城市西北部和马里兰州各郊区的住宅区被埋在两英尺深的积雪之下，很多街道还没有清除积雪。之前被州长拉里·霍根(Larry Hogan)连夜下令关闭的马里兰州两条主要高速公路——70和270号州际公路——于周日早上重新开放。
The ocean poured into shore towns in southern New Jersey: In Sea Isle City, floodwaters laden with chunks of ice surged down the streets, and in Wildwood the frigid, brackish water submerged cars halfway up to their windows. In Belmar, the wind drove a sailboat out of its marina and tangled its mast in overhead wires, knocking out power.
海水涌入新泽西州南部的沿海城镇：掺杂大量冰块的洪水在海岛城街道上涌动，怀尔德伍德路面上的车辆被泡在冰冷微咸的海水里，水面达到车窗位置。在贝尔马，大风把帆船吹出了船坞，桅杆和上方的电线绞缠在一起，导致断电。
The disruptions extended to the presidential campaign trail, forcing New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, who is seeking the Republican nomination, to forfeit time in New Hampshire to tend to his state. He turned the setback into a selling point for his candidacy in an appearance Sunday morning on CNN, where he pointed to his management of the heavy snowfall as proof of his readiness for the White House.
这些破坏还影响到了总统大选，迫使正谋求共和党提名的新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)放弃在新罕布什尔的竞选活动，回到新泽西州处理灾情。周日早上出现在CNN节目上时，他把这一挫折变成自己竞选的一个卖点，指出他对暴雪的应对表明他做好了入主白宫的准备。