SKILLMAN, N.J. — The only hint that something is different inside millions of bottles of Johnson’s Baby Shampoo arriving on store shelves are two words: “Improved Formula.”
新泽西州斯基尔曼——即将出现在货架上的数百万瓶强生婴儿洗发露(Baby Shampoo)将有所改变，而唯一的线索是瓶身上的四个字：“升级配方”。
The shampoo has the same amber hue, the same sudsy lather and — perhaps most important — the same familiar smell that, for generations of Americans, still conjures memories of childhood bath time.
这种洗发露还是原来的琥珀色、会打出原来那种泡沫，而且或许最为重要的是，仍带有好几代美国人熟悉的那种唤起儿时沐浴回忆的熟悉味道。
What’s different about the shampoo, and 100 other baby products sold by Johnson & Johnson, isn’t so much about what’s been added; it’s what’s missing. The products no longer contain two potentially harmful chemicals, formaldehyde and 1,4-dioxane, that have come under increasing scrutiny by consumers and environmental groups.
这款洗发露，以及强生公司(Johnson & Johnson)销售的百种其他婴儿产品之所以有所不同，并非是因为添加了什么东西；而是因为少了些什么。它们不再含有可能有害的两种化学物质：甲醛与1,4-二噁烷，即越来越多地受到消费者与环保团体审视的两种物质。
In response to consumer pressure two years ago, the company pledged to remove both chemicals from its baby products by the end of 2013, and this month, it said that it had met that goal. The reformulated products are making their way to store shelves around the world and will replace existing products over the next several months.
两年前，为了回应消费者施加的压力，强生承诺在2013年底之前从其婴儿产品中去除这两种化学物质。本月，公司宣布目标已达成。经过配方改良的产品正在世界各地上架，并将在接下来的几个月里取代原有产品。
The move is the first step in a companywide effort to remove an array of increasingly unpopular chemicals from its personal care products, and is the biggest yet by a major consumer products manufacturer.
强生公司在采取整体行动，从其个人护理产品中去除一系列越来越不受欢迎的化学物质，此举是其中的第一步，也是大型消费产品生产商中迄今采取的最大规模的此类行动。
Johnson & Johnson has also promised to remove such chemicals, and others, from all of its consumer products by 2015, including popular brands like Neutrogena and Clean & Clear.
强生还承诺，2015年年底以前，从所有的消费产品中移除包括此类化合物在内的多种化学物质，范围涉及露得清(Neutrogena)和可伶可俐(Clean & Clear)等颇受欢迎的品牌。
In doing so, the company is navigating a precarious path, investing tens of millions of dollars to remove the chemicals while at the same time insisting that they are safe.
这样做，强生无异于在走钢丝，一方面投入数千万美元来去除某些化学物质，另一方面又坚称它们是安全的。
The company is responding, executives said, to a fundamental shift in consumer behavior, as an increasingly informed public demands that companies be more responsive to their concerns, especially when it comes to the ingredients in their products.
强生高管表示，公司是在响应消费者行为的根本性变化。越来越多掌握相关知识的公众要求，各大企业对他们的担心予以更积极的回应，尤其是涉及到产品成分问题的时候。
When Johnson & Johnson acquired Aveeno, the natural skin care company, in 1999, it polled customers about their interest in the brand’s ingredients. The answer demonstrated little consumer concern about the details — customers wanted the company to keep it simple. “They’re telling us the opposite now,” said Cathy Salerno, the vice president of research and development for the company’s consumer products division in North America.
1999年，强生收购天然护肤品公司Aveeno的时候，在消费者当中进行了品牌成分的兴趣调查。结果显示，消费者对成分的细节并不太关心，只是希望成分越简单越好。“现在，他们跟我们说的刚好相反，”公司北美市场消费产品部的研发副总裁凯茜·萨莱诺(Cathy Salerno)说。
Other manufacturers are also responding to these concerns. This fall, Walmart announced that it would eventually require suppliers to reduce or eliminate 10 chemicals from cleaning and personal care products.
其他一些生产商也对此类担忧予以了回应。去年秋季，沃尔玛(Walmart)宣布，公司将最终要求供应商从清洁与个人护理产品中减少或消除10种化学物质。
Target has said it would monitor suppliers’ use of potentially harmful chemicals, then give incentives to companies that use safer chemicals. Procter & Gamble has promised to eliminate phthalates and triclosan, whose safety has also been questioned, by the end of this year.
塔吉特(Target)表示，将监控供应商使用可能有害的化学物质的情况，并奖励采用较为安全的化学物质的那些企业。宝洁(Procter & Gamble)则承诺，在今年底以前，去除安全性存疑的邻苯二甲酸酯类物质和三氯生。
Environmental groups disagree with the safety claims that Johnson & Johnson makes about the chemicals it is removing, and say they wish the company would be more forthright about the hazards. Nevertheless, they praised the company for keeping its commitment.
对于强生宣称的这些正在去除的物质实为安全的说辞，一些环保团体持有不同意见，并表示希望强生对其中的危害性更为坦诚。尽管如此，它们还是赞扬了强生信守承诺。
“A lot of companies say they’re going to do something, but in this case Johnson & Johnson actually did what they were going to do,” said Janet Nudelman, director of program and policy at the Breast Cancer Fund and the co-founder of the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, which pushed Johnson & Johnson on the chemicals.
“很多公司只是口头上说要采取行动，不过强生实际上做到了承诺的事情，”乳癌基金会(Breast Cancer Fund)的项目与政策主管珍妮特·努德尔曼(Janet Nudelman)说。她还联合他人创建了安全化妆品运动联盟(Campaign for Safe Cosmetics)，正是这家组织之前敦促强生对这些化学物质采取行动。
Even before their removal, customers would not have found formaldehyde or 1,4-dioxane listed on bottles because they aren’t technically ingredients.
即使是去除之前，消费者也不会在瓶身上找到甲醛和1,4-二噁烷的名字，因为严格来说，它们并非配方成分。
Formaldehyde, which has been identified by government scientists as a carcinogen, is released over time by preservatives, like quaternium-15. And 1,4-dioxane, which has been linked to cancer in animal studies, is created during a process used to make other ingredients mild — important for a company that has sold billions of bottles of baby shampoo on its “No More Tears” claim.
受美国政府委托的科学家已将甲醛明确列为致癌物质，而1,4-二噁烷在动物实验中也被发现与癌症有关。甲醛的产生是因为，随着时间的推移，季铵盐-15等防腐剂会释放出这种物质。1,4-二噁烷则是在改善其他物质温和性的加工过程中产生的副产物。对于一家销售了数十亿瓶标榜“无泪配方”的婴儿洗发露的企业而言，温和性至关重要。
Johnson & Johnson has removed the preservatives that release formaldehyde, and said it has reduced the levels of 1,4-dioxane to very limited trace amounts, from one to four parts per million.
强生弃用了会释放出甲醛的防腐剂，并表示已将1,4-二噁烷的水平降至极其有限的痕量，即1到4ppm之间。
Johnson & Johnson executives are quick to note that formaldehyde occurs naturally in many products — a person’s exposure to formaldehyde in an apple, they claim, is greater than it is in 15 bottles of baby shampoo. And 1,4-dioxane is found in their products at levels low enough to be safe.
强生高管还很快指出，甲醛会出现在许多天然产品中。他们宣称，一个苹果给人带来的暴露值，大于15瓶的婴儿洗发露。而且，强生产品中1,4-二噁烷的浓度低于安全限值。
An outside analysis by the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics published in 2009 found that the levels of 1,4-dioxane in many of the company’s baby products were already at the target levels. But Heather White, executive director of the Environmental Working Group, a part of the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics, said there was not enough information to know the long-term effects of these chemicals, and there was mounting evidence that cumulative exposure can be dangerous.
然而，安全化妆品运动联盟(Campaign for Safe Cosmetics )2009年公布的外部分析报告显示，在强生的许多婴儿产品中，1,4-二噁烷浓度已达目标水平。不过，隶属于该联盟的环境工作小组(Environmental Working Group)的执行主管希瑟·怀特(Heather White)称，虽然没有足够的信息来判断这些化学物质的长期效应，但越来越多的证据表明，累积暴露是危险的。
“Will a kid get cancer because there’s formaldehyde in their shampoo?” Ms. White asked. “We don’t know the answer to that. But why is there a carcinogen in their shampoo? When in doubt, take it out.”
“小孩会不会因为洗发水里的甲醛得癌症？”怀特问道。“我们不知道答案。可是，为什么他们的洗发水里要有致癌物？有疑问的时候，就应该去掉。”
Taking it out, however, has not been simple. In remaking its baby products, Johnson & Johnson’s scientists had a delicate task before them: how to remove the chemicals in question without compromising some of the company’s most iconic brands.
不过，去除并非易事。为了重新打造旗下的婴儿产品，强生的科学家们面临棘手的任务：如何既能去掉存疑的化学物质，又能让公司某些最具代表性的品牌毫发无损？
“There was a lot of angst about it,” recalled Ms. Salerno, who was one of the executives who oversaw the team of close to 200 people who worked for two years on the project. “Our people in the marketing department were adamant that they wanted the exact same product.”
“围绕这有不少的焦躁情绪，”萨莱诺回忆道。近200人的团队在该项目上工作了两年时间，而萨莱诺是负责的高管之一。“营销部的同事坚持要求，产品要一模一样。”
But as the scientists set to work, they discovered that replacing the problem ingredients often led to a chain reaction of unintended consequences. One new preservative led to a snow-globe effect, with particles settling at the bottom of the bottle. But the fix for that turned the shampoo from a golden honey color to a dull brown. Another change turned the consistency to water.
然而，甫一开始工作，科学家们就发现，替代问题成分往往会带来一连串的意外后果。有一种新的防腐剂会导致像雪景球那样，瓶底产生颗粒物沉淀。但是，解决了这个问题之后，蜂蜜般金黄的洗发露会变成暗沉的褐色。另一项改变则会将其粘稠的质地变得像水一样。
The team’s next step is removing another type of preservative, parabens, from their baby products, and removing those and additional chemicals from their adult products.
团队的下一步工作是从婴儿产品中去除名为对羟基苯甲酸酯的另一类防腐剂，然后是去除成人产品中的这类防腐剂，以及其他一些化学物质。
Ms. Salerno and others say they sometimes get frustrated at critics who promote the idea that natural ingredients are inherently better. “I like to remind people that poison ivy is natural,” Ms. Salerno said.
萨莱诺等人称，他们有时候会对那些宣称天然成分必定更好理念的那些批评人士感到恼火。“我想提醒人们，毒藤就是天然的，”她说。
But she said that the concerns of their customers, especially those related to health and safety, could not be ignored. “This lands right at the heart and soul of what Johnson & Johnson is about, so we really had to take this very seriously,” she said.
不过，萨莱诺也表示，他们客户的担忧不容忽视，尤其是与健康和安全有关的那些担忧。“这正是强生的精髓所在，所以我们的确是需要非常严肃地对待这个问题，”她说。
“I tell people, in 28 years with this company, this is by far the most challenging project I’ve ever worked on,” Ms. Salerno said. “But it’s a real point of pride.”
“我告诉别人，在公司待了28年，这是迄今为止我经手的最具挑战性的项目，”萨莱诺说。“不过，它真的事关荣誉问题。”