BEIJING — An unusually fierce tornado ravaged an eastern Chinese city on Thursday, killing at least 98 people and injuring 800 others, catapulting cars, ginkgo trees and cellphone towers through the air, and reducing homes to piles of debris, the authorities said.
北京——本周四，一场异常猛烈的龙卷风肆虐中国东部的一座城市，当局称导致至少98人死亡，800人受伤，车辆、银杏树和手机信号塔被风卷走，一些住宅变为废墟。
The storm in Yancheng, a city of 7.1 million overlooking the Yellow Sea, featured wind gusts exceeding 80 miles an hour by some accounts.
发生灾害的盐城市座落在黄海边，有710万人口，一些人说，这次龙卷风的时速超过了80英里。
“The skies turned dark and we thought the summer torrential rain was about to begin,” said a resident of Yancheng, according to a live-blog published by Sina, a web portal. “We ran to our house. Suddenly, the roof was blown apart, bricks were falling and the house collapsed.”
“天黑了，以为要下暴雨，立刻躲回家中，”门户网站新浪网在文字直播中援引盐城居民的话说。“在窗户上看到前面房屋瓦片都被掀了起来……轰隆一声房子塌了”
Televisions flashed with scenes of horror: hospitals overwhelmed with casualties, residents combing through piles of rubble for their belongings, and dust-covered arms and legs jutting from the ground.
电视上播出的画面令人心惊：医院里挤满了伤者，居民从废墟里爬出来，尘土覆盖的手臂和腿伸出地面。
President Xi Jinping called for an “all-out rescue effort,” according to CCTV, the state broadcaster, and the authorities said that hundreds of rescuers had been sent to Yancheng to sort through the wreckage. Nearly half of the injured were in serious condition, the Chinese Ministry of Civil Affairs said late Thursday.
据官方媒体中央电视台报道，习近平主席要求“全面开展救援工作”，当局表示已经派遣数以百计的救援人员前往盐城，在废墟中展开搜救行动。民政部周四晚表示，将近一半的伤者情况严重。
The tornado, which began around 2:30 p.m. and was accompanied by hailstorms, destroyed thousands of homes and stores, as well as several manufacturing plants and rice mills, according to news reports. Yancheng is known as a center of textile production and farming in Jiangsu Province.
新闻报道称，龙卷风是下午2:30左右开始的，伴有冰雹，数以千计的房屋和商店被毁损，一些制造厂和大米加工厂也遭到破坏。盐城是江苏省的一个纺织品生产和农业中心。
A man who gave his last name as Zhang told China News Service that he had been driving along a street when he noticed that trees were falling in a “strange way.” He pulled over, and soon the winds lifted his car and threw it into a river.
一名自称姓张的男子告诉中国新闻社，他正在路上行驶时，发现大树“异样倒伏”。他停了车，很快，风就把他的车卷到了一条河里。
Tornadoes are relatively common in Jiangsu Province, in China’s southeast, with more than 1,000 recorded over the past six decades, according to Chinese news reports. Southern China has faced several bouts of extreme weather recently, with floods killing more than 20 people this week.
江苏省位于中国东南部，龙卷风在那里比较常见，中国的新闻报道称，据记载，在过去六十年里，那里发生了1000多次龙卷风。近期中国南方出现了多次极端天气，本周已经有20余人在洪灾中丧生。