SEOUL, South Korea — A man claiming to be a naturalized American citizen held in North Korea since October confessed to committing crimes against the country and pleaded for mercy on Friday, news agencies reported from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
韩国首尔——新闻机构从朝鲜首都平壤发回报道称，一名声称是归化美国公民的人自去年10月被朝鲜扣押，他在周五承认犯下了反对朝鲜的罪行，并恳求宽恕。
The man, Kim Dong-chul, appeared at a government-arranged news conference and apologized for trying to steal military secrets in collusion with South Koreans, the Kyodo News agency of Japan reported. Xinhua, the Chinese news agency, carried a similar report.
日本共同社(Kyodo News)报道称，这个名为金东哲(Kim Dong-chul)的男子参加了政府安排的新闻发布会，并为与韩国人串通试图盗取军事机密的行为道歉。中国新闻机构新华社也发布了类似的报道。
Mr. Kim, in a blue suit, kept his head bowed and his hands folded in front of him as uniformed North Korean officials escorted him to the news conference, according to photos carried by Kyodo on its website.
共同社在网站公布的照片显示，身着制服的朝鲜官员将金东哲带进新闻发布会时，身穿蓝色西装的金东哲一直低着头，两手交叉放在身前。
Mr. Kim’s detainment was disclosed when the North Korean government arranged for CNN to interview him in Pyongyang in January.
今年1月，朝鲜政府安排CNN在平壤采访金东哲时，他被扣押一事才得以公开。
In that interview, Mr. Kim said he was a 62-year-old naturalized American citizen from Fairfax, Va., and used to run a trading and hotel services company in Rason, a special economic zone that North Korea operates near its borders with China and Russia.
当时金东哲接受采访时表示，他是一名62岁的归化美国公民，来自弗吉尼亚州费尔法克斯，过去在罗先经营一家贸易和酒店服务公司，罗先是朝鲜在与中国及俄罗斯的边境地区开设的经济特区。
Mr. Kim said he had begun spying on behalf of “South Korean conservative elements” in 2013, by bribing North Korean residents to collect data about the North’s military and its nuclear program. He said he was arrested in October while he was meeting one of his local sources, a former North Korean soldier.
金东哲表示，他从2013年开始代表“韩国保守势力”从事间谍活动，方式是收买民众，让对方收集有关朝鲜军方及其核计划的信息。他说自己是10月被捕的，当时他正在和当地的一个线人接头，对方曾是一名朝鲜军人。
The United States State Department has declined to comment on the case, saying speaking publicly about detained Americans can complicate its efforts to secure their freedom.
美国国务院(State Department)拒绝就此事置评，称公开谈论美国人被扣押事件会加大营救他们的难度。
Last week, North Korea’s Supreme Court sentenced an American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, to 15 years of hard labor. He was convicted of trying to steal a political banner from his hotel in Pyongyang.
上周，朝鲜最高法院判处美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)15年劳教。罪名是试图在其下榻的平壤酒店内偷走政治宣传标语。
Over the years, North Korea has detained several Americans on accusations of illegal entry or spying and other “antistate” crimes. It has often permitted them to speak to outside news media in interviews or at news conferences in Pyongyang.
这些年来，朝鲜以非法入境或从事间谍活动及其他“反国家”罪名扣押了几名美国人。朝鲜通常允许他们在平壤接受采访或参加新闻发布会，向外部新闻媒体发声。
They invariably confessed to committing crimes and apologized, asking North Korea for leniency and urging their governments to facilitate their release. But some told reporters after their release that officials had coerced them into making such statements.
他们一律承认犯下罪行并道歉，请求获得朝鲜的宽恕，请求美国政府帮助他们获释。但一些人在获释后告诉律师，朝鲜官员强迫他们做出此类声明。
Relations between North Korea and the United States are particularly delicate. The North conducted a nuclear test on Jan. 6 and launched a long-range rocket last month, prompting Washington and its allies to seek tougher United Nations sanctions on Pyongyang.
朝鲜与美国的关系尤其微妙。朝鲜在1月6日进行了核试验，并在上个月发射了一枚远程火箭，促使华盛顿及其盟友在联合国谋求加大对平壤的制裁力度。