READERS often ask: Why do I travel to places like Sudan or Myanmar when we Americans have so many challenges at home to worry about?
读者经常问：当我们美国人国内还有这么多挑战要操心时，我为什么去想苏丹或缅甸那样的地方？
As Janessa put it on my Facebook page: “Shouldn’t we take care of the issues within our own borders BEFORE we try and fix everyone else’s?”
就像简萨(Janessa)在我Facebook页面上的留言说的那样：“我们不该先管好自己国内的事情，然后再尝试解决其他人的问题吗？”
It’s a fair question, and it comes up often now. We’re weary with the world, and so many humanitarian problems seem insoluble. We’re ready to turn inward.
这是个好问题，而且这个问题现在经常出现。我们对这个世界感到厌烦，这么多人道主义问题似乎都无法解决。我们已经准备好把目光转向国内。
Yet perhaps an encounter last month in Myanmar on my annual “win-a-trip” journey, with a college student in tow, can help answer the question.
然而，上个月我带领一名大学生在缅甸进行每年一度的“与纪思道同行”之旅时偶遇的一个人，或许能帮忙回答这个问题。
The winner of my contest this year was Nicole Sganga, a 20-year-old Notre Dame student. One day, we hiked into the remote village of Yae Thay, far from any road, and we met a woman named Sajan, also 20.
今年的比赛获奖者是20岁的圣母大学(Notre Dame University)学生妮科尔·斯甘加(Nicole Sganga)。一天，我们徒步走进了偏远的亚伊代村。在那个远离任何公路的村子里，我们遇到了一个名叫萨扬(Sajan)的女子。她也20岁。
We stopped and chatted, meeting her children and talking about her aspirations. Nicole and Sajan are both bright, hard-working and fun-loving, and they got along well. But their lives could not be more different — a reflection of the lottery of birth.
我们停下来和她聊天，见到了她的孩子，讨论起了她的愿望。妮科尔和萨扬都开朗、勤奋、爱玩，两人相处得很好。但她们的生活却有着天壤之别——这是出生决定论的一个反映。
While Nicole grew up in a middle-class family on Long Island, N.Y., thriving in school, Sajan dropped out at age 10 when her father died. “I couldn’t afford to go to school after that,” she explained.
妮科尔在纽约长岛的一个中产阶级家庭长大，在学校茁壮成长，而萨扬则在10岁那年父亲去世后辍学。“那以后我上不起学了，”她解释说。
Sajan, a model of resourcefulness, resilience and tenacity, became a cook to fishermen and married at 13, traded for a bride price of one cow. She has two daughters whom she aims to send to high school, but she wants sons because, she explained, “a boy is better than a girl.”
作为机智、适应力和顽强意志的典范，萨扬成了给渔夫做饭的厨师，并在13岁时出嫁，彩礼是一头母牛。她现在有两个女儿，她的目标是送她们上高中，但她还想要儿子。她解释说，因为“男孩比女孩好”。
She has never seen a dentist. She wears lipstick but has no television, no radio and even no electricity. She has never ridden in a car, and she doesn’t have a bicycle to get around. Her wardrobe consists of two sarongs and four tops, but no shoes or sandals; she goes barefoot.
她从未看过牙医。她涂了口红，但家里没有电视、收音机，甚至连电都没有。她从没坐过汽车，也没有自行车可以骑着四处转转。她的全部衣服只有两件纱笼裙和四件上衣，没有一般的鞋或凉鞋。她光脚走路。
Sajan says she can leave the home only with her husband’s permission. She loves her husband but declined to say whether he beats her. She added reflectively that a husband should beat his wife if she disobeys him.
萨扬说她只能在丈夫许可的情况下离开家。她爱自己的丈夫，但不愿说他是否打她。她若有所思地接着说如果妻子不听丈夫的话，丈夫就该打妻子。
Nicole told Sajan bluntly that she didn’t intend to marry until at least the age of 30. We wondered if Sajan would disdain such a lifestyle, but she immediately said: “I’d like to trade with you.”
妮科尔坦率地告诉萨扬，至少在30岁之前，她不打算结婚。我们好奇萨扬会不会鄙视这种生活方式，但她却马上说：“我愿意和你换。”
She also estimated that a highly educated young woman like Nicole would get a huge bride price — at least five cows. That was perhaps a sign of the premium villagers place on educated girls.
她还估计像妮科尔这样受教育程度高的年轻女子会获得一大笔彩礼——至少五头母牛。那或许表示村民对受过教育的女孩子的看重。
(In another village, a man offered 100 cows for Nicole if she married his son. Nicole gently explained that she was not for sale.)
（在另一个村子，一名男子表示，如果妮科尔愿意嫁给他儿子，他愿意给100头母牛。妮科尔温和地解释说自己不是用来出售的。）
Sajan and other villagers draw their drinking water from open ponds and mud puddles, because there is no well available. The result is sickness, parasites and death, especially among children.
萨扬和其他村民从露天的池塘和泥潭里取饮用水，因为没有水井可以用。这样做的结果是疾病、寄生虫和死亡，儿童当中尤其严重。
No one in the village uses contraception, and it’s not clear how many are even aware that it exists.
村里没人采取避孕措施，甚至有多少人知道避孕措施的存在也不得而知。
It was eerie to watch Nicole and Sajan talk to each other: Two young women, born at almost the same time, both with talent and dreams, both seizing opportunities, yet only one in a context in which her abilities can come fully into play. It was a reminder of a basic truth of life: Talent is universal, but opportunity is not.
看着妮科尔和萨扬交谈让人觉得诡异：这两名年轻女性几乎同时出生的，两人都有才能和梦想，她们都在努力把握机会，可是只有一个人所处的环境能让其充分实现自己的梦想。它让我想起了生活的一个基本真理：才华哪里都有，而机会却未必如是。
That’s one reason I encourage young people to travel outside their comfort zones: From afar, it’s often easier to see our own privilege — and responsibilities.
这是我鼓励年轻人到他们的安乐窝外闯荡的一个原因，在远方，我们往往更容易见识自己的幸运——和责任。
There has been a much-needed focus this year on inequality in the United States, with even Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, saying that inequality is destabilizing America. But, of course, the greatest deprivation is in Asia and Africa, and it’s still far cheaper to create opportunity in poor countries than in rich ones.
今年的焦点是美国国内的不平等现象，这种关注是极有必要的，就连高盛(Goldman Sachs)首席执行官劳尔德·贝兰克梵(Lloyd Blankfein)都说不平等现象正在破坏美国的稳定。不过，最严重的贫困现象当然还是在亚洲和非洲，而在贫穷国家创造机会的成本依然比在富裕国家便宜得多。
Vaccines save lives. Iodizing salt raises I.Q.’s and reduces mental disability. Wells, bed nets and deworming improve health. Family planning would help the 215 million women worldwide who yearn for a way to avoid getting pregnant. Education allows people to transform their own lives. These are all bargains.
疫苗能挽救生命。加碘盐能提高智商，减少精神缺陷。水井、蚊帐和驱虫药能改善人们的健康。计划生育能给全球2.15亿渴望能以某种方式避孕的女性提供帮助。教育能让人改变自己的人生。这些都花不了几个钱。
In some quarters in America, it’s considered glamorous to volunteer in Tanzania, but not to mentor a child on the wrong side of the tracks. That’s myopic. But I think it’s also shortsighted to insist that we solve all of our own problems before beginning to address those abroad.
在美国的一些地区，人们对到坦桑尼亚当志愿者心生向往，可是却对辅导误入歧途的儿童缺乏兴趣。这真是目光短浅。不过我认为，坚持先解决国内的所有问题，再应对海外的问题也是短视的表现。
Compassion shouldn’t depend, one way or the other, on the color of one’s skin — or passport. We can, albeit unsteadily and uncertainly, try simultaneously to chip away at problems both here and abroad — spreading opportunity so that the Sajans of the world are as empowered as the Nicoles.
不管怎样，对他人的同情都不应取决于一个人的肤色——或护照。我们可以试试同步解决国内外的问题，播撒机会，让全球的萨扬们获得和妮科尔同样的权利，虽说这个过程会有失平稳，充满变数。