You might not know me, but I’m famous. Don’t feel bad. Until recently, I didn’t know I was famous either, and most days, even now, it’s hard to tell.
你可能不认识我，但是我很有名。你无需内疚。我也是直到最近才知道自己很有名的，而且即使到了现在，大多数日子也很难说清我到底算不算有名。
In 2010 I published a novel, “The Serialist.” It did fine for a debut, which is to say well enough to warrant a second, but my daily life didn’t change much: I wrote, I ran, I hung out with my friends. Then a Japanese translation came out, and things got strange. My book won a major Japanese literary contest, which was nice. Then it won another. Then another. Apparently this was extraordinary: No one had ever won all three before. I received copies of articles, which were totally incomprehensible to me except for the picture of my face and a big No. 1. I tried Google Translate, which rendered it all into tantalizing gibberish. My book was not even called “The Serialist” in Japan: The character is a pulp writer, so they used the title “Niryuu Shousetsuka,” which translates back into English as “Second-Rate Novelist.” That was me!
我在2010年出版了一本小说，名叫《连载作家》(The Serialist)。作为第一部出版的作品，反响还算不错，也就是说反响足够好，可以接着写第二部。但是我的日常生活没有太多改变，我写作、跑步和朋友们碰面。然后日文译本出版，奇怪的事情就开始发生了：我的书赢得了一项日本文学大奖，挺不错的。之后又赢得了另一个奖项，然后又得了第三个奖。这显然非同一般，没有谁曾经同时拿过这三个奖项。我收到了很多文章的复印件，当然我除了自己的照片和大大的“No. 1”之外什么看不懂。我试着用谷歌(Google)翻译，可是翻译出的结果都是绞尽脑汁也读不懂的胡言乱语。我的书在日本甚至都不叫《连载作家》，主角是一个写低俗小说的写手，所以他们用了《二流小说家》的标题。“二流小说家”，这不就是我自己嘛！
The odd, or oddest, part, was that I had always been a fan of Japanese culture, its films, books and art, though I had never studied it, and it played no role in my books. It was like having a distant teenage crush on someone who suddenly wrote and said, “I like you, too.”
古怪的部分，或者说最古怪的部分是，我一直喜好日本文化，日本的电影、书籍、艺术，不过我从来没有研究过，日本文化在我的书里也没有扮演过什么角色。这种感觉像是少年时有一个异地的暗恋对象，对方突然写信过来说“我也喜欢你”。
The culmination of this peculiar adventure, which I had observed only from afar, occurred when Toei Studio made “Niryuu Shousetsuka: Serialist,” a film based on my book. That is to say, a Japanese movie set in Tokyo, with Japanese actors speaking Japanese, rather than my version, which features non-Japanese people and takes place mostly in Queens.
我一直在从远处观察这段奇异的冒险——冒险历程巅峰是东映(Toei Studio)以我的书为基础，拍摄了《二流小说家》的电影。也就是说，是一部背景设定在东京，请日本演员用日语表演的日本电影，而不是我本来的版本，角色都不是日本人，场景主要在纽约皇后区。
They made the movie very fast, in about six months, and invited me to the premiere in June 2013. My Japanese publishers had contrived to release my new book, “Mystery Girl,” at the same time. The novel wouldn’t even be published in English until July. Maybe it had something to do with the international date line, the way emails from East Asia seem to come from tomorrow, but my Japanese life was clearly way ahead of my American life. So I went.
电影拍得很快，用了大概六个月，他们还邀请我参加2013年6月举办的首映礼。我在日本的出版商，居然还做到了同步推出我的新书《神秘女郎》(Mystery Girl)，这部小说的英文版都要到7月才能出版。这大概和国际日期变更线有关吧，来自东亚的电子邮件总像是明天发出的。不过我在日本的生活显然比在美国的生活领先很多，所以我就去了。
At the airport, I was met by my editor and a TV crew, which, I assure you, had never happened before. I was put up in a hotel where James Bond might have stayed, with a remote-controlled tub that filled automatically and a giant button that opened the drapes — futuristic, but a ’60s kind of future. As requested, I put on a black suit and a tie (mind you, I can barely tie a tie, because in my real life I have no need for one) and went to the premiere, where each member of the cast, including the woman who sang the theme song, bowed and thanked me.
在机场，我的编辑和一个摄制组前来迎接，我向你保证，这种事过去从来没有发生过。我被送到了一家酒店，这大概是詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)会住的那种酒店，遥控的浴缸可以自动注水，有一个巨大的按钮用来打开窗帘，未来感很强，不过是60年代设想的那种未来。我遵命穿上了黑色西装，系上了领带（请注意，我几乎不会打领带，因为在我的现实生活中完全不需要领带），前去参加首映礼。当时所有演员，包括唱主题歌的女歌手，都朝我鞠躬向我致谢。
In a daze, I was paraded before the press, blinded by flashbulbs and tracked by TV cameras. But because I couldn’t understand the directions, I often talked to the wrong camera, stared into space or even leaned on the scenery — until my intrepid and glamorous young translator told the reporters to wave if they wanted David-san to look at their cameras, like a baby at a birthday party. I watched the film with her whispering in my ear: “He is the detective.” It was as if I had fallen asleep and had a weird dream about my own book. At the end, when the lights came up and I stood to leave, she tapped my shoulder and pointed. The audience was clapping wildly. For me. I took a few deep bows and fled.
我不知所措地跟着一队人走到了媒体面前，闪光灯无比刺眼，电视台的摄像机也一直跟拍。可是因为我听不懂指示，所以在说话时常常会看错镜头，盯着某处发呆，还会靠在布景上，直到我英勇无畏、风采夺目的年轻翻译告诉记者们，要是想让“戴维桑”看他们的镜头，就挥挥手，就像生日聚会上人们对婴儿那样。我一边看电影，她一边在我耳边低声解说“他是侦探”，感觉仿佛是我睡着了，做了一场跟我的书有关的怪梦。最后，灯光亮起时我站起身来准备离开，她拍了拍我的肩膀指了指。观众正在疯狂地鼓掌，为我鼓掌。我几次深深地鞠躬，接着逃离了现场。
For a week, I did interviews, met critics and fans, visited bookshops. Readers admired my views on literature and my deep understanding of women — things few readers (or women) think here. I traveled everywhere with an entourage, signing books aided by two assistants, one who held the book for me, another who blotted my signature with tissue. People toasted me and applauded my ability to eat with chopsticks or sign my name really big on a poster.
一周时间里，我接受采访、与评论家和粉丝见面、拜访书店。读者们很欣赏我对文学的看法，也很欣赏我对女性的深入了解，在美国极少会有读者（或女性）产生这样的想法。我无论走到哪里，都会有一群人簇拥，在两名助理的协助下在书上签名，一个帮我拿着书，另一个用纸巾擦干我签名上的墨迹。会有人给我敬酒，赞赏我会用筷子吃饭，也赞赏我能在海报上用很大的字签名。
Then I came home to my daily routine. I live alone in book-filled rooms smaller than my Tokyo hotel suite. My bathtub doesn’t fill itself. I sit and write all day in silence. Then I go running or out with friends, who barely ever applaud. Don’t get me wrong, it’s fine, but once in a while, as I eat a burrito and watch an old samurai film, I wonder how that other, more glamorous writer, David-san, the Second-Rate Novelist, is doing over there, where it’s already tomorrow.
接着我回到了家，回到了每天重复的日程。我独居在堆满了书，比东京酒店套间小的房间里，浴缸不能自动注水。我一整天都坐着静静写作，之后出去跑步或者和朋友们碰面，他们几乎从来都不会鼓掌。别误会，这样其实挺好的。只是当我在吃卷饼时、看关于日本武士的老电影时，偶尔也会幻想，另一个更加光彩照人的作家——“二流小说家”戴维桑，在那边过得怎么样，那边已经是明天了。