When Kimberly Jones picked up her son, Keaton, from school in the Knoxville, Tennessee, area last week, he asked her to record a video of him in the car.
当金伯莉·琼斯(Kimberly Jones)在上周从田纳西州诺克斯维尔地区的学校接回儿子基顿(Keaton)时，他请她帮忙在车内拍摄了一段视频。
Keaton was going home early — not for the first time, Kimberly Jones said — because he was afraid to have lunch at school. Classmates, he told his mother, had poured milk on him and stuffed ham in his clothes.
基顿是提前回的家——金伯莉·琼斯说，这不是第一次了——因为他不敢在学校吃午餐。他告诉妈妈，同学们往他的身上倒过牛奶，还往他的衣服里塞过火腿。
“They make fun of my nose,” he said in the video, which Jones posted on Facebook on Friday with a plea for parents to talk to their children about bullying. “They call me ugly. They say I have no friends.”
“他们取笑我的鼻子，”他在视频中说道，琼斯在周五时把这个视频发在了Facebook上，还请求父母们与孩子们谈谈霸凌问题。“他们说我丑。他们说我没有朋友。”
“Why do they bully? What’s the point of it? Why do you find joy in taking innocent people and finding a way to be mean to them?” he asked, sobbing. He added: “People that are different don’t need to be criticized about it. It’s not their fault.”
“他们为什么霸凌别人？这有什么意义呢？为什么你们会觉得，欺负无辜的人，想尽办法刻薄地对他们，会是件乐事呢？”他抽泣着问道。他还说：“人们不应该因为与别人不同就受到批评。这不是他们的错。”
By Sunday evening, the video had been viewed 20 million times on Facebook alone, bringing attention to the stubborn problem of childhood bullying — and a flood of support for Keaton.
截至周日晚上，这个视频仅在Facebook上就已有了超过2000万次的浏览量，使儿童霸凌这个顽疾受到了关注——也使基顿获得了潮涌般的支持。
Much ink has been spilled about bullying in the internet age, but Keaton’s video underscored that the old-fashioned variety — the cafeteria taunts, the physical violence — is still very much alive.
在互联网时代，已经有太多关于霸凌的讨论，但基顿的视频的重点在于，老一套的花样——食堂里的奚落嘲笑、身体暴力——依然十分常见。
Thousands of people, including many celebrities, wrote on social media that they, too, had been bullied and urged Keaton to stay strong.
包括许多明星在内的成千上万人在社交媒体上写道，他们也曾遭遇过霸凌，并给基顿打气。
Jarrett Guarantano, a quarterback at the University of Tennessee, posted a photo of himself with Keaton, whom he called his “new best bud.” Kelsea Ballerini, a country singer and Knoxville native, declared that the next time she was in town, she would “walk into that lunchroom with you and watch the bullies say they are sorry to you.” “Stranger Things” actress Millie Bobby Brown, who is 13, tweeted, “I wanna be your friend.”
田纳西大学(University of Tennessee)橄榄球四分卫队员贾里特·盖兰塔诺(Jarrett Guarantano)发了一张自己与基顿的合影，并把基顿称作他“新死党”。在诺克斯维尔出生的乡村歌手凯尔西·芭莱莉妮(Kelsea Ballerini)宣布在她下一次回到家乡的时候会“和你一起走进午餐厅，看着那些恶霸给你道歉”。《怪奇物语》(Stranger Things)中的13岁女演员米莉·波比·布朗(Millie Bobby Brown)发推称，“我想做你的朋友。”
Delanie Walker, a tight end for the Tennessee Titans, offered Keaton and his family tickets to the team’s New Year’s Eve game against the Jacksonville Jaguars. In a short video, he read a poem attributed to Buddha and told Keaton, “You can be whoever you want to be.”
田纳西泰坦队(Tennessee Titans)的近端锋德兰尼·沃克(Delanie Walker)愿意给基顿和他的家人送出球队在新年夜对战杰克逊维尔美洲虎队(Jacksonville Jaguars)的比赛门票。在一个短视频中，他念了一首据称为佛陀所作的诗，并告诉基顿，“你可以活成你自己希望的样子。”
Actor LeVar Burton assured Keaton he was “not alone.” Chris Evans, who plays Captain America, offered tickets to the Los Angeles premiere of next year’s “Avengers” movie.
演员莱瓦尔·伯顿(LeVar Burton)向基顿保证，他“并不孤单。”《美国队长》的扮演者克里斯·伊文斯(Chris Evans)愿意送出明年的“复仇者联盟”电影在洛杉矶的首映礼入场券。
Keaton even got a message from Luke Skywalker.
基顿甚至还收到了天行者卢克(Luke Skywalker)的消息。
“They’re just jealous because you’re so smart & handsome,” Mark Hamill, who plays Skywalker in the “Star Wars” movies, tweeted.
“他们只是嫉妒你那么聪明又那么帅气，”《星球大战》中天行者卢克的扮演者马克·哈米尔(Mark Hamill)发推说。
Jones did not respond to a Facebook message Sunday requesting an interview with Keaton. She had posted Saturday that she could not keep up with the thousands of messages pouring in.
琼斯并未回应周日时要求采访基顿的Facebook消息。她周六时发帖称，自己无法应对蜂拥而至的成千上万条消息。
“At the end of the day, this isn’t new for us, & we still have to truck on thru the day to day,” she wrote, adding, “I’m humbled by the voice my boy has been given, but he’s still just a little boy, & he’s a little boy who desperately wants acceptance.”
“到头来，这对我们都并不新鲜，我们也还得一天天继续我们的生活，”她写道，并且“我很感激大家如此倾听我儿子的声音，但他终究只是个小男孩，他还是一个迫切希望得到认可的小男孩。”
Public attention to bullying tends to come in waves, surging around cases like Keaton’s before falling off again. In some well-publicized cases in recent years, bullying has been so vicious that victims have killed themselves.
公众对霸凌事件的关注往往都是一阵一阵的，类似基顿这样的事件会使关注度骤增继而平息。在近些年曝光度较高的事件中，一些霸凌事件的恶毒程度甚至导致了受害者自杀。
Multiple studies, including a 2008 review by researchers at Yale and another published in JAMA Pediatrics in 2014, have found a connection between bullying and suicide.
多项研究发现在霸凌和自杀之间存在关联，其中包括2008年由耶鲁大学研究人员开展的研究，以及2014年发表在《美国医学会期刊：儿科学》(JAMA Pediatrics)上的一项研究。
In his video, through his tears, Keaton told viewers: “If you are made fun of, just don’t let it bother you. Stay strong, I guess.”
在视频中，基顿流着泪告诉观众：“如果你被人嘲笑，不要因此而受到影响。要坚强，我觉得。”
“It’ll probably get better one day,” he said, sounding unconvinced.
“或许将来某天会好一些吧，”他说，但听起来不是很肯定。