“I’ve always been slightly short with people who say, ‘You haven’t written anything again,’ as if all the nonfiction I’ve written is not writing,” Arundhati Roy said.
“我一直都有点烦那些说‘你已经不再写作了’的人，好像我那些非虚构作品就不是写作一样，”阿兰达蒂·洛伊(Arundhati Roy)说。
It was July, and we were sitting in Roy’s living room, the windows closed against the heat of the Delhi summer. Delhi might be roiled over a slowing economy, rising crimes against women and the coming elections, but in Jor Bagh, an upscale residential area across from the 16th-century tombs of the Lodi Gardens, things were quiet. Roy’s dog, Filthy, a stray, slept on the floor, her belly rising and falling rhythmically. The melancholy cry of a bird pierced the air. “That’s a hornbill,” Roy said, looking reflective.
时值7月，我们坐在洛伊的起居室里，紧闭的窗扉把德里夏日的炎热阻挡在外。这里是上流住宅区约·巴格，坐落在16世纪墓葬群“罗迪花园”对面；近日来德里或许被缓慢发展的经济、对妇女犯罪的上升与即将到来的选举弄得颇不安宁，但这里却是风平浪静。洛伊收养的流浪狗菲尔茜睡在地上，肚皮有节奏地上下起伏。一阵忧伤的鸟鸣从空中传来，“那是犀鸟，”洛伊若有所思地说。
Roy, perhaps best known for “The God of Small Things,” her novel about relationships that cross lines of caste, class and religion, one of which leads to murder while another culminates in incest, had only recently turned again to fiction. It was another novel, but she was keeping the subject secret for now. She was still trying to shake herself free of her nearly two-decade-long role as an activist and public intellectual and spoke, with some reluctance, of one “last commitment.” It was more daring than her attacks on India’s occupation of Kashmir, the American wars in Iraq and Afghanistan or crony capitalism. This time, she had taken on Mahatma Gandhi.
洛伊或许是因为她的《微物之神》(The God of Small Things)而广为人知的，这部小说描写了跨越种姓、阶级与信仰的两段感情，一段导致了谋杀，另一段在乱伦中达到顶峰，直至近日，她才重返虚构写作。那是一部小说，但她至今仍对小说主题秘而不宣。此外，她还在努力摆脱自己二十年来行动主义者和公共知识分子的形象，并且要略带勉强地摆脱一项“最后的任务”。这举动比她抨击印度占领克什米尔、美国对伊拉克和阿富汗发起的战争，乃至裙带资本主义等等还要大胆。这一次，她的目标直指圣雄甘地。
She’d been asked by a small Indian press, Navayana, to write an introduction to a new edition of “The Annihilation of Caste.” Written in 1936 by B. R. Ambedkar, the progressive leader who drafted the Indian Constitution and converted to Buddhism, the essay is perhaps the most famous modern-day attack on India’s caste system. It includes a rebuke of Gandhi, who wanted to abolish untouchability but not caste. Ambedkar saw the entire caste system as morally wrong and undemocratic. Reading Ambedkar’s and Gandhi’s arguments with each other, Roy became increasingly dismayed with what she saw as Gandhi’s regressive position. Her small introductory essay grew larger in her mind, “almost a little book in itself.” It would not pull its punches when it came to Gandhi and therefore would likely prove controversial. Even Ambedkar ran into difficulties. His views were considered so provocative that he was forced to self-publish. The more she spoke of it, the more mired in complications this last commitment of hers seemed.
一个名叫《新工具》(Navayana)的印度小媒体要她为新版《种姓的灭绝》(The Annihilation of Caste)写一篇介绍文章。《种姓的灭绝》是进步领袖B·R·安贝德卡(B. R. Ambedkar)1936年的著作，他曾起草印度宪法并皈依佛教。这篇文章或许是当代对印度种姓制度最著名的一篇檄文，其中指责甘地只想废除贱民阶层，不想废除种姓制度。安贝德卡认为整个种姓制度在道德上是错误的，是不民主的。读过安贝德卡和甘地的往来争论，洛伊对甘地的倒退立场深感失望。这篇为《种姓的灭绝》所写的短小介绍开始在她头脑中扩展，“几乎成了一本小书。”其中涉及甘地的部分，她也不打算手下留情，这样便很容易引发争议。就连安贝德卡也遇到了许多困难。他的观点被认为是挑衅的，因此只能自费出版。洛伊愈说这个话题，似乎就在这个“最后任务”的复杂困境中陷得愈深。
Roy led me into the next room, where books and journals were scattered around the kitchen table that serves as her desk. The collected writings of Ambedkar and Gandhi, voluminous and in combat with each other, sat in towering stacks, bookmarks tucked between the pages. The notebook in which Roy had been jotting down her thoughts in small, precise handwriting lay open on the table, a fragile intermediary in a nearly century-old debate between giants.
洛伊带我来到隔壁房间，书籍和杂志散乱地摊在她用来当书桌的一张餐桌上。大量安贝德卡和甘地的论战文集堆积如山，书页间还夹着书签。摊开的笔记本上，可以看到洛伊用工整的小字写着零散想法，在两个巨人持续将近一个世纪之久的斗争中间充当微妙的中间人。
“I got into trouble in the past for my nonfiction,” Roy said, “and I swore, ‘I’m never going to write anything with a footnote again.’ ” It’s a promise she has so far been unable to keep. “I’ve been gathering the thoughts for months, struggling with the questions, shocked by what I’ve been reading,” she said, when I asked if she had begun the essay. “I know that when it comes out, a lot is going to happen. But it’s something I need to do.”
“过去我因为自己的非虚构写作陷入了麻烦，”洛伊说，“我曾对自己发誓‘今后再也不写任何带脚注的东西了’。”迄今为止，她并没有兑现这个誓言。“我花了几个月的时间收集想法，和各种问题搏斗，被我读到的东西所震惊，”当我问她是否已经开始动手写这篇文章时，她说，“我知道，文章一旦发表，就会发生很多事。但这是我需要去做的事。”
In her late 30s, Roy was perhaps India’s most famous writer. The publication of “The God of Small Things” in 1997 coincided with the 50th anniversary of India’s independence. It was the beginning of an aggressively nationalist, consumerist phase, and Roy was seen as representative of Brand India. The novel, her first, appeared on the New York Times best-seller list and won the Booker Prize. It went on to sell more than six million copies. British tabloids published bewildering profiles (“A 500,000-pound book from the pickle-factory outcast”), while magazines photographed her — all cascading waves of hair and high cheekbones — against the pristine waterways and lush foliage of Kerala, where the novel was set and which was just beginning to take off as a tourist destination.
洛伊在年近不惑之时成了印度最著名的作家。《微物之神》于1997年出版，同年亦是印度独立50周年。那是声势浩大的民族主义和消费主义阶段之初期，洛伊被视为印度品牌的代表。那部小说是她的处女座，登上《纽约时报》畅销书排行榜，并赢得布克奖，卖出了600多万册。英国小报发表令人困惑的特写，诸如《泡菜厂弃儿写出价值50万英镑的书》；在杂志为她拍下的照片上，她留着浓密的波浪卷发，有着高耸的颧骨，背景是印度喀拉拉邦天然纯净的河流与繁茂的绿叶。当时喀拉拉邦刚刚开始成为旅游者的目的地，洛伊小说中的故事就发生在那里。
Roy’s tenure as a national icon came to an abrupt end when, a year later, the Hindu right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party (B.J.P.) government carried out a series of nuclear tests. These were widely applauded by Indians who identified with Hindu nationalism, many of them members of the rising middle class. In an essay titled, “The End of Imagination,” Roy accused supporters of the tests of reveling in displays of military power — embracing the jingoism that had brought the B.J.P. to power for only the second time since independence — instead of addressing the abysmal conditions in which a majority of Indians lived. Published simultaneously in the English-language magazines Outlook and Frontline, the essay marked her beginning as an overtly political writer.
洛伊的国民偶像生涯在一年后戛然而止。当时印度右翼政党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)政府进行了一系列核试验，这在认同印度教国家主义的印度人当中引发了广泛赞许，其中很多人都属于正在崛起的中产阶级。洛伊发表了一篇文章，题为《想像的终结》(The End of Imagination)，她谴责核试验的支持者们沉迷于炫耀武力——正是对沙文主义的信奉令印度人民党在印度独立之后第二次掌握权力——但这些支持者们却对大多数印度人所生存的苦难环境漠不关心。这篇文章还同时刊登在《展望》(Outlook)和《前线》(Frontline)两本英语杂志上，标志着她公开成为一个政治作家。
Roy’s political turn angered many in her upper-caste, urban, English-speaking audience, even as it attracted another. Most of her new fans had never heard of her novel; they often spoke languages other than English and felt marginalized because of their religion, caste or ethnicity, left behind by India’s economic rise. They devoured the essays Roy began writing, which were distributed in unauthorized translations, and flocked to rallies to hear her speak. “There was all this resentment, quite understandable, about ‘The God of Small Things,’ that here was this person writing in English winning all this money,” Roy said. “So when ‘The End of Imagination’ came out, there was a reversal, an anger among the English-speaking people, but also an embrace from everyone else.”
洛伊的政治转变令许多和她同属上层种姓、说英语的印度城市读者大为震怒，但也有许多人喜欢她的转变。她的新拥趸之中，大多数人根本没有听说过她的小说；他们也不说英语，在这个国家因为信仰、种姓或种族被边缘化，被印度的经济增长大潮所抛弃。他们如饥似渴地读着洛伊的文章，它们通过未经授权的翻译得以传播；洛伊有演讲时，他们就成群结队地去听。“对《微物之神》的普遍愤恨是可以理解的——有这么一个人，用英语写作，还赚了那么多钱，”洛伊说，“所以当《想像的终结》出来的时候，情况逆转了，愤恨开始在说英语的人群中滋生，但这篇文章却被其他人所接受。”
The vehemence of the response surprised her. “There is nothing in ‘The God of Small Things’ that is at odds with what I went on to write politically over 15 years,” Roy said. “It’s instinctive territory.” It is true that her novel also explored questions of social justice. But without the armature of character and plot, her essays seemed didactic — or just plain wrong — to her detractors, easy stabs at an India full of energy and purpose. Even those who sympathized with her views were often suspicious of her celebrity, regarding her as a dilettante. But for Roy, remaining on the sidelines was never an option. “If I had not said anything about the nuclear tests, it would have been as if I was celebrating it,” Roy said. “I was on the covers of all these magazines all the time. Not saying anything became as political as saying something.”
这些剧烈的反响令她惊讶。“《微物之神》和我这15年来的政治写作并没有任何矛盾之处，”洛伊说，“这是我本能的领域。”的确，她的小说中也探索了社会公正问题。但是对于她的批评者们来说，没有了角色与情节的支撑，她的文章似乎有些迂腐，或者说，根本就是错的，只是对充满活力与意志的印度的廉价攻击。就连那些同情她观点的人也经常质疑她的名人身份，觉得她在政治写作领域只是玩票。但洛伊从没考虑过只把政治写作当成副业。“如果当时我不就核试验说点什么，那就好像我在为它唱赞歌一样，”洛伊说，“那时候我经常出现在各种杂志的封面上。对此一言不发也会产生一种政治效果。”
Roy turned next to a series of mega-dams to be built on the Narmada River. Villagers likely to be displaced by the project had been staging protests, even as India’s Supreme Court allowed construction to go forward. Roy traveled through the region, joining in the protests and writing essays criticizing the court’s decision. In 2001, a group of men accused her and other activists of attacking them at a rally outside the Supreme Court. Roy petitioned for the charges to be dismissed. The court agreed but was so offended by the language of her petition (she accused the court of attempting to “muzzle dissent, to harass and intimidate those who disagree with it”) that it held her in contempt. “Showing the magnanimity of law by keeping in mind that the respondent is a woman,” the judgment read, “and hoping that better sense and wisdom shall dawn upon the respondent in the future to serve the cause of art and literature,” Roy was to be sentenced to “simple imprisonment for one day” and a fine of 2,000 rupees.
其后，洛伊的目光转向了纳尔马达河上修建的一系列大型水坝。许多因这项工程要被迁走的村民展开抗议，就连印度最高法院批准水坝建设继续进行后也没有放弃。洛伊赶到那个地区参加抗议活动，写下若干文章批评法庭的判决。2001年，一群男人控告洛伊和其他激进分子在最高法院外面围攻他们。洛伊向法庭申诉，要求驳回控告。法庭同意了，但被她的申诉中所用的言辞所激怒——她指责法庭试图“扼制异见，骚扰和恐吓意见不同的人”——于是判处她蔑视法庭。“为示法律的宽宏大量，同时考虑到被告是女人，”法官读道，“希望被告在将来获得更多理智与智慧，为艺术与文学事业服务，”洛伊被判处“入狱一天”以及缴纳2000美元罚款。
The 2002 BBC documentary “Dam/Age” captures some of the drama around Roy’s imprisonment at the fortresslike Tihar Jail. When she emerged the next day, her transformation from Indian icon to harsh national critic was complete. Her hair, which she had shorn into a severe cut, evoked, uneasily, both ostracized woman and feisty feminist. The English-language Indian media mocked Roy for criticizing the dams, which they saw as further evidence of India’s rise. Attacks followed each of her subsequent works: her anguished denunciations of the massacre of Muslims in Gujarat in 2002, the plans for bauxite mining in Orissa (now Odisha) by a London-based corporation called Vedanta Resources, the paramilitary operations in central India against indigenous tribal populations and ultraleft guerrillas known as Naxalites; and India’s military presence in Kashmir, where more than a half million troops hold in check a majority Muslim population that wants to secede from India.
BBC电视台2002年的纪录片《水库/时代》(Dam/Age)中拍下了洛伊在城堡般的提沙监狱服刑前后发生的戏剧情景。第二天她出狱后便彻底脱胎换骨，从印度偶像变成了严厉的国家批判者。她把自己的头发修剪成极为朴素的样式，令人不安地联想到一个被放逐的女人，乃至好斗的女权主义者。一家印度英文媒体嘲笑洛伊对大坝的批评，他们认为大坝是印度崛起的证据。其后她所有的作品都受到攻击，她的谴责对象包括2002年古拉吉特邦对穆斯林的屠杀、一家名叫“吠檀多资源”的伦敦公司在奥里萨邦（如今的奥迪萨邦）开采铝土矿的计划、印度中部对土著人及纳萨尔派极左武装游击队采取的准军事行动，以及印度在克什米尔的军事行动，当时有50多万名军人进驻克什米尔，制止那里占多数的穆斯林人口谋求脱离印度的行动。
Kashmir, over which India has fought three of its four wars against Pakistan, would become one of Roy’s defining issues. In 2010, after a series of massive protests during which teenage boys faced off against soldiers, Roy publicly remarked that “Kashmir was never an integral part of India.” In suggesting that the state of India was a mere construct, a product of partition like Pakistan, she had crossed a line. Most progressives in India haven’t gone that far. Roy soon found herself the center of a nationwide storm. A stone-throwing mob, trailed by television vans, showed up at her front door. The conservative TV channel Times Now ran slow-motion clips of her visiting Kashmir in which she looked as if she were sashaying down a catwalk, refusing to answer a reporter’s questions. Back in Delhi, Times Now convened a panel moderated by its immensely popular host, Arnab Goswami, to discuss — squeezed between headlines and a news crawl in which “anger” and “Arundhati” were the most common words — whether Roy should be arrested for sedition. When the sole Kashmiri Muslim panelist, Hameeda Nayeem, pointed out that Roy had said nothing not already believed by a majority of Kashmiris, she was cut off by Goswami. Cases were filed against Roy in courts in Bangalore and Chandigarh, accusing her of being “antinational,” “anti-human” and supposedly writing in one of her essays that “Kashmir should get freedom from naked, starving Indians.”
印度迄今共经历过四次战争，其中有三次是同巴基斯坦争夺克什米尔，它成了洛伊的关键论题之一。2010年发生了一系列大规模抗议活动，其中有几个十几岁男孩与军人对峙的情景，洛伊公开称：“克什米尔从来就不是印度不可分割的一部分。”她说，印度这个国家只是一个概念，和巴基斯坦一样，只是印巴分离的产物，这番话越线了。印度的大多数改革分子也没有走得这样远。洛伊很快发现自己成了一场全国性风暴的中心。乌合之众向她抛石头、电视台的报道车跟在她身后，出现在她门前。保守派电视台“Times Now”用慢动作播放她访问克什米尔的短片，片中她迈着舞步般的步伐走过一条小道，拒绝回答记者的提问。镜头回到德里，“Times Now”召集了一群人，由电视台颇受欢迎的主持人阿纳布·格斯瓦米(Arnab Goswami)主持，讨论是否应该以煽动罪逮捕洛伊，节目中除了新闻标题和新闻，“愤怒”和“阿兰达蒂”是最常出现的两个字眼。讨论组中唯一的一个克什米尔穆斯林哈米达·纳伊姆(Hameeda Nayeem)指出，洛伊所说的一切都是大多数克什米尔人普遍相信的东西，这时她的话被格斯瓦米打断了。在班加罗尔和昌迪加尔都有人对洛伊发起诉讼，控告她“反国家”、“反人类”，人们普遍认为她有一篇文章里写道：“克什米尔应当从食不果腹，衣不蔽体的印度人手中取得自由。”
The apartment where I met Roy in July occupies the topmost floor of a three-story house and has all the trappings of an upper-class home — a sprawl of surrounding lawn, a high fence and a small elevator. There are few signs of her dissenter status: the stickers on her door (“We have to be very careful these days because . . .”); the books in the living room (Howard Zinn, Noam Chomsky, Eduardo Galeano); and, particularly unusual in the Indian context, the absence of servants (Roy lives entirely alone). Perhaps what is most telling is how Roy ended up in this house, which she used to ride past every day on her way to work, on a bicycle rented for a rupee.
7月份我到洛伊家中采访她，她的公寓占了一栋三层楼的整个顶层，这座楼拥有一切上流阶层住宅的附属设施——四周环绕着草坪、有高高的围栏，还有一个小电梯。屋中能表明异见者身份的迹象寥寥无几，她门上的贴纸写着“最近这些日子我们必须非常谨慎，因为……”起居室里有霍华德·津恩(Howard Zinn)、诺姆·乔姆斯基(Noam Chomsky)、爱德华多·加利亚诺(Eduardo Galeano)的作品，这些书在印度都不常见，家里没有佣人，她完全一个人生活。或许最有说服力的是洛伊如何决定住进这栋房子，以前她每天都要骑着用一个卢比租来的自行车路过这里去上班。
Roy was born Suzanna Arundhati Roy in 1959 in Shillong, a small hill town in the northeastern fringes of India. Her mother, Mary, was from a close-knit community of Syrian Christians in Kerala. Her father, Rajib, was a Bengali Hindu from Calcutta, a manager of a tea plantation near Shillong and an alcoholic. The marriage didn’t last long, and when Roy was 2, she and her brother, Lalith, a year and a half older, returned to Kerala with their mother. Unwelcome at the family home, they moved into a cottage owned by Roy’s maternal grandfather in Ooty, in the neighboring state of Tamil Nadu.
洛伊原名苏珊娜·阿兰达蒂·洛伊(Suzanna Arundhati Roy)，1959年出生于印度东北边境的山地小镇西隆。她的母亲玛丽来自喀拉拉邦一个团结紧密的叙利亚裔基督徒社区。她的父亲拉吉布是来自加尔各答的孟加拉印度教徒，在西隆附近一个茶园当经理，酗酒。这段婚姻并没有维持很长时间，洛伊两岁的时候，她和一岁半的弟弟拉里斯同母亲回到喀拉拉居住。他们不受母亲娘家的欢迎，搬到了泰米尔纳德邦的奥提，毗邻喀拉拉邦，住在洛伊外祖父的一栋乡间小屋里。
“Then there are a lot of horrible stories,” Roy said and began to laugh. “My mother was very ill, a severe asthmatic. We thought she was dying. She would send us into town with a basket, and the shopkeepers would put food in the basket, mostly just rice with green chilies.” The family remained there until Roy was 5, defying attempts by her grandmother and uncle to turn them out of the house (inheritance laws among Syrian Christians heavily favored sons). Eventually, Roy’s mother moved back to Kerala and started a school on the premises of the local Rotary Club.
“后来发生了很多可怕的事，”洛伊说着笑起来，“我妈妈病得很重，非常严重的哮喘。我们觉得她要死了。她会让我们带着一个篮子到镇上去，商店店主们会在篮子里放上食物，大都是大米和青椒。”直到洛伊五岁，全家人都住在那儿，外祖母和舅舅一直逼他们搬出房子（在叙利亚基督徒中，继承法严重偏向儿子），他们拒不服从。最后，洛伊的母亲搬回喀拉拉，借当地扶轮社的场地开办了一所学校。
As the child of a single mother, Roy was ill at ease in the conservative Syrian Christian community. She felt more at home among the so-called lower castes or Dalits, who were kept at a distance by both Christians and upper-caste Hindus.
作为单亲母亲的孩子，洛伊和传统叙利亚基督社区相处并不融洽，而是和那些低等种姓的人或达利特人相处更好。基督徒和高等种姓的印度教徒通常对这些人避而远之。
“Much of the way I think is by default,” she said. “Nobody paid enough attention to me to indoctrinate me.” By the time she was sent to Lawrence, a boarding school founded by a British Army officer (motto: “Never Give In”), it was perhaps too late for indoctrination. Roy, who was 10, says the only thing she remembers about Lawrence was becoming obsessed with running. Her brother, who heads a seafood-export business in Kerala, recalls her time there differently. “When she was in middle school, she was quite popular among the senior boys,” he told me, laughing. “She was also a prefect and a tremendous debater.”
“我的许多想法都是自然而然产生的，”她说，“没有人注意我，要费心给我灌输什么东西。”后来她被送进劳伦斯学校，那是一所由英国军官创立的寄宿学校，校训是“永不屈服”。到那时再进行灌输教育或许已经太晚了。洛伊当时十岁，她说自己关于劳伦斯唯一的记忆就是，自己在那时迷上了跑步。她的弟弟目前在喀拉拉邦经营一家水产出口公司，他对姐姐那个时期的回忆有所不同。“上中学时，她在高年级男孩中很受欢迎，”他笑着告诉我。“她还是个非常优秀的辩手。”
Roy concedes that boarding school had its uses. “It made it easier to light out when I did,” she said. The child of what was considered a disreputable marriage and an even more disgraceful divorce, Roy was expected to have suitably modest ambitions. Her future prospects were summed up by the first college she was placed in; it was run by nuns and offered secretarial training. At 16, Roy instead moved to Delhi to study at the School of Planning and Architecture.
洛伊承认那座寄宿学校也有好处。“它让我逃走的时候更轻松了些，”她说。她父母的婚姻被认为是不体面的，之后的离婚更是耻辱，因此周围的人们期望洛伊有比较谦逊适中的抱负。从她就读的第一所大学可以看出她的前景——那是一所由修女经办的学校，提供秘书培训。但是，16岁那年，洛伊搬到德里，进入建筑与规划学校学习。
Roy chose architecture because it would allow her to start earning money in her second year, but also out of idealism. In Kerala, she met the British-born Indian architect Laurie Baker, known for his sustainable, low-cost buildings, and was taken with the idea of doing similar work. But she soon realized she wouldn’t learn about such things at school. “They just wanted you to be like a contractor,” Roy said, still indignant. She was grappling, she said, with questions to which her professors didn’t seem to have answers: “What is your sense of aesthetic? Whom are you designing for? Even if you’re designing a home, what is the relationship between men and women assumed in that? It just became bigger and bigger. How are cities organized? Who are laws for? Who is considered a citizen? This coalesced into something very political for me by the end of it.”
洛伊选择建筑，是因为这能让她在入学第二年就开始赚钱，但也是出于理想主义。在喀拉拉，她结识了在英国出生的印度建筑师劳里·贝克(Laurie Baker)，他以设计成本低廉、结实耐用的建筑著称，于是她也想做类似的工作。但她很快发现，自己在学校里学不到这样的东西。“他们只想让你当个承包商，”洛伊努力思考的问题是教授们无法解答的，“你的审美标准是什么？你为谁而设计？就算是室内设计，那么住在里面的男人和女人们有着什么样的关系？城市变得愈来愈大，应当如何规划？法律为谁服务？什么样的人才可被称为公民？到最后，这一切对于我而言变成了非常政治的东西。”
For her final project, Roy refused to design a building and instead wrote a thesis, “Postcolonial Urban Development in Delhi.” “I said: ‘Now I want to tell you what I’ve learned here. I don’t want you to tell me what I’ve learned here.’ ” Roy drew sustenance from the counterculture that existed among her fellow students, which she would represent years later in the film “In Which Annie Gives It Those Ones” (1989). She wrote, designed and appeared in it — an elfin figure with a giant Afro playing the character of Radha, who gives up architecture to become a writer but drowns before completing her first novel.
做毕业设计的时候，洛伊拒绝设计一栋建筑，而是写了一篇论文：《后殖民时期德里的城市发展》(Postcolonial Urban Development in Delhi)。“我说：‘现在我要告诉你们我在这儿学了什么。我不想让你们来告诉我我在这儿学了什么。’”洛伊从身边的同学们当中汲取反主流文化的营养，几年后用在了电影《安尼为此而付出》(In Which Annie Gives It Those Ones, 1989)中。剧本是洛伊写的，还参与了影片设计，并在片中亮相，饰演一个精灵般的角色，头顶巨大的非洲式卷发，名叫拉达，放弃建筑行业从事写作，但是没写完第一部小说就淹死了。
By this time, Roy had broken off contact with her family. Without money to stay in the student hostel, she moved into a nearby slum with her boyfriend, Gerard da Cunha. (They pretended to be married in deference to the slum’s conservative mores.) “It’s one thing to be a young person who decides to slum it,” Roy said. “For me, it wasn’t like that. There was nobody. There was no cuteness about it. That was my university, that period when you think from the point of view of absolute vulnerability. And that hasn’t left me.”
当时洛伊和家庭断绝了关系。没有钱住在学生公寓，便和男友格兰特·达·卡纳(Gerard da Cunha)搬进了附近的贫民区。为了顺应贫民区保守的风俗，他们假装已经结婚。“当一个想体验贫民区生活的年轻人是一回事，”洛伊说，“对于我来说又是另一回事。那里什么人物也没有，没有任何矫揉造作的东西，那里是我的大学，那段时期你会从绝对弱者的角度看问题。这些影响至今还留在我身上。”
After graduation, she briefly lived with Da Cunha, in Goa, where he was from, but they broke up, and she returned to Delhi. She got a job at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, and met Pradip Krishen, an independent filmmaker who offered Roy the female lead in “Massey Sahib” (1985), a film set in colonial India in which Roy played a goatherd. Roy and Krishen, who later married, collaborated on subsequent projects, including “Bargad,” a 26-part television series on India’s independence movement that was never completed, as well as two feature films, “Annie” and “Electric Moon” (1992).
毕业后，她和达·卡纳在他的故乡果阿短暂同居了一段时期，两人分手后她回到德里。她在城市事务国家研究所(National Institute of Urban Affaires)呆了一段，认识了独立电影人普拉迪普·克里什纳(Pradip Krishen)，他邀请洛伊在电影《梅塞·撒伊卜》(Massey Sahib, 1985)中担任女主角，影片发生在殖民统治期间的印度，洛伊饰演一个牧羊女。洛伊后来嫁给了克里什纳，两人其后合作创作了一系列项目，包括26集系列剧《巴尔加德》(Bargad)，反映印度独立运动，但一直也没有拍完。此外还有两部电影长篇，《安尼》(Annie)和《电子月亮》(Electric Moon, 1992)。
Krishen’s background could not have been more different from Roy’s. A Balliol scholar and former history professor, Krishen, a widower, lived with his parents and two children in a sprawling house in the posh Chanakyapuri neighborhood. When Roy joined him, they moved to a separate apartment upstairs. Roy immersed herself in Delhi’s independent-filmmaking world. The movies’ progressive themes appealed to her, but it was a world dominated by the scions of elite families, and it soon came to seem out of touch and insular to her. She spent more and more time teaching aerobics, to earn her own money, and hanging out with artists she met in school.
克里什纳的背景与洛伊截然不同，他是来自贝列尔学院的学者，前历史教授，鳏夫，与父母和两个孩子住在时尚的卡纳克亚普利一座大宅里。洛伊搬进来后，他们住进了楼上一个独立住宅。洛伊和德里的独立电影界打成一片。那些前卫的电影题材深深吸引着她，但那是一个由精英家庭的后代主宰的圈子，她很快就觉得自己格格不入。她用愈来愈多的时间教授有氧操，为自己赚钱，和在学校里认识的艺术家们呆在一起。
She had already begun work on her novel when “The Bandit Queen,” a film, based on the life of the female bandit Phoolan Devi, was released. Devi was a low-caste woman who became a famous gang leader and endured gang rape and imprisonment. Roy was incensed by the way the film portrayed her as a victim whose life was defined by rape instead of rebellion. “When I saw the film, I was infuriated, partly because I had grown up in Kerala, being taken to these Malayalam films, where in every film — every film — a woman got raped,” Roy said. “For many years, I believed that all women got raped. Then I read in the papers how Phoolan Devi said it was like being raped again. I read the book the film was based on and realized that these guys had added their own rapes. . . . I thought, You’ve changed India’s most famous bandit into history’s most famous rape victim.” Roy’s essay on the film, “The Great Indian Rape Trick,” published in the now-defunct Sunday magazine, eviscerated the makers of “Bandit Queen,” pointing out that they never even bothered to meet Phoolan Devi or to invite her to a screening.
当她开始写自己的小说时，正赶上电影《土匪女皇》(Bandit Queen)上映，它是根据女土匪普兰·黛薇(Phoolan Devi)的生平故事改编的。黛薇出身低等种姓，后来成为著名匪帮头领，经历了匪帮的强暴，后来被捕入狱。片中把她塑造成一个牺牲品，决定了她人生的是被强暴的经历，而不是反叛精神，洛伊对此感到愤怒。“看着部电影时我非常生气，部分是因为我是在喀拉拉邦长大的，看多了这种马拉雅拉姆语电影，每部电影——每部电影里都有女人被强暴，”洛伊说，“很多年来，我相信所有女人都会被强暴。后来我看到报纸上普兰·黛薇说看了电影，感觉像是又被强暴了一遍。我看了电影改编依据的原著，发现拍电影的那些人自己添加了强暴戏。我想，你们把印度历史上最著名的土匪改编成了历史上最著名的强暴受害者。”洛伊对该片的影评《伟大的印度强暴骗局》(The Great Indian Rape Trick)刊登在如今已不存在的《星期日》杂志上，痛斥《土匪女皇》的拍摄者，指出他们根本就懒得和普兰·黛薇本人会面，也没有邀请她参加放映式。
The piece alienated many of the people Roy worked with. Krishen, who gives the impression of a flinty loyalty toward Roy even though the couple split up, says it was seen as a betrayal in the tightknit film circles of Delhi. For Roy, it was a lesson in how the media worked. “I watched very carefully what happened to Phoolan Devi,” she said. “I saw how the media can just excavate you and leave a shell behind. And I was lucky to learn from that. So when my turn came, the barricades were up.”
这篇文章令洛伊的许多共事者逐渐疏离了她。克里什纳和洛伊分手后，还对她保持着坚定的忠诚，他说这篇文章看上去像是对德里团结紧密的电影圈的一种背叛。洛伊则从这件事中学到了媒体的运作方式。“我密切关注着普兰·黛薇身上发生的事，”她说，“我看到媒体是怎样挖掘你，把你掏干，然后就丢在脑后。我幸运地从这件事中学到了这一点。所以等轮到我的时候，就提前做好了防备。”