Last week the International Monetary Fund, whose normal role is that of stern disciplinarian to spendthrift governments, gave the United States some unusual advice. “Lighten up,” urged the fund. “Enjoy life! Seize the day!”
国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund, 简称IMF）的常规角色是严厉地要求一些挥霍无度的政府遵守纪律。但上周它却给美国提出了一些反常的建议。IMF敦促美国，“放轻松！享受生活，活在当下！”
O.K., fund officials didn’t use quite those words, but they came close, with an article in IMF Survey magazine titled “Ease Off Spending Cuts to Boost U.S. Recovery.” In its more formal statement, the fund argued that the sequester and other forms of fiscal contraction will cut this year’s U.S. growth rate by almost half, undermining what might otherwise have been a fairly vigorous recovery. And these spending cuts are both unwise and unnecessary.
当然，这和IMF官员的原话不太一样，不过意思差不多。《基金组织概览》(IMF Survey)杂志上发表了一篇题为“缓和支出削减，提升美国经济增长”的文章。在更为正式的声明中，IMF提出，自动减赤(sequester)及其他形式的财政收缩，会使美国今年的经济增长率降低至少一半，这就会破坏本来可能相当有力的复苏。而且这些开支削减既不明智，也没有必要。
Unfortunately, the fund apparently couldn’t bring itself to break completely with the austerity talk that is regarded as a badge of seriousness in the policy world. Even while urging us to run bigger deficits for the time being, Christine Lagarde, the fund’s head, called on us to “hurry up with putting in place a medium-term road map to restore long-run fiscal sustainability.”
不幸的是，IMF显然不能让自己完全摆脱财政紧缩的话语套路，因为这种套路已被视为政策领域里表现严肃性的象征。尽管敦促美国当下应该背负更多赤字，但IMF总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)也呼吁美国“要加快中期路线图的制定，以恢复长期财政可持续性”。
So here’s my question: Why, exactly, do we need to hurry up? Is it urgent that we agree now on how we’ll deal with fiscal issues of the 2020s, the 2030s and beyond?
我的问题是，我们到底为什么需要加快呢？需要紧迫到现在就对如何处理本世纪20年代、30年代甚至更久以后的财政问题达成共识吗？
No, it isn’t. And in practice, focusing on “long-run fiscal sustainability” — which usually ends up being mainly about “entitlement reform,” a k a cuts to Social Security and other programs — isn’t a way of being responsible. On the contrary, it’s an excuse, a way to avoid dealing with the severe economic problems we face right now.
不，不需要。而且在实际操作中，关注于“长期财政可持续性”往往会以所谓的“福利改革”而告终，也就是说削减社会安全福利(Social Security)和其他福利计划，这可不是一个负责任的方法。相反的，这只是一个借口，一种回避应对当下面临的严峻经济问题的方式。
What’s the problem with focusing on the long run? Part of the answer — although arguably the least important part — is that the distant future is highly uncertain (surprise!) and that long-run fiscal projections should be seen mainly as an especially boring genre of science fiction. In particular, projections of huge future deficits are to a large extent based on the assumption that health care costs will continue to rise substantially faster than national income — yet the growth in health costs has slowed dramatically in the last few years, and the long-run picture is already looking much less dire than it did not long ago.
关注长期会有什么问题呢？部分原因，而且可以说是最不重要的部分原因在于，遥远的未来存在极大的不确定性（惊讶吗？），因而长期的财政预测主要应当被视为一种十分让人厌烦的科幻小说题材。尤其是对未来巨额财政赤字的预测，在很大程度上是基于这样一种假设：医疗费用的增长会比国民收入增长快很多。然而在过去几年中，医疗成本的增长已经显著降低了，而且长期来看，现在与不久以前的预测相比，情况已经远没有那么严峻。
Now, uncertainty by itself isn’t always a reason for inaction. In the case of climate change, for example, uncertainty about the impact of greenhouse gases on global temperatures actually strengthens the case for action, to head off the risk of catastrophe.
当然，不确定性本身并不总是能当作无所作为的理由。例如，气候变化就是一个例子，温室气体对全球温度的影响存在不确定性，但这实际上提供了更有力的理由，采取行动进而避免发生灾难的风险。
But fiscal policy isn’t like climate policy, even though some people have tried to make the analogy (even as right-wingers who claim to be deeply concerned about long-term debt remain strangely indifferent to long-term environmental concerns). Delaying action on climate means releasing billions of tons of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere while we debate the issue; delaying action on entitlement reform has no comparable cost.
虽然某些人试图作出这样的类比，但是财政政策并不像气候政策。（尽管那些自称深深关注长期债务问题的右翼人士，对长期的环境问题却怪异地保持着冷漠。）在气候问题上磨磨蹭蹭不采取行动，意味着在我们辩论问题的同时，会有数十亿吨温室气体排放进大气层。然而对福利改革磨磨蹭蹭不采取行动，并不会产生相同的后果。
In fact, the whole argument for early action on long-run fiscal issues is surprisingly weak and slippery. As I like to point out, the conventional wisdom on these things seems to be that to avert the danger of future benefit cuts, we must act now to cut future benefits. And no, that isn’t much of a caricature.
实际上，对长期财政问题及早采取行动的整个论证过程，都令人吃惊地脆弱无力、站不住脚。我很乐于指出，通常的看法好像是，要避免未来削减福利开支的危险，我们必须现在采取行动，削减未来的福利。我可没有歪曲夸大。
Still, while a “grand bargain” that links reduced austerity now to longer-run fiscal changes may not be necessary, does seeking such a bargain do any harm? Yes, it does. For the fact is we aren’t going to get that kind of deal — the country just isn’t ready, politically. As a result, time and energy spent pursuing such a deal are time and energy wasted, which would have been better spent trying to help the unemployed.
不过，尽管将现在减缓紧缩与更长期的财政变动相联系的“大妥协”可能并无必要，但是寻求这样的妥协会产生损害吗？是的，会产生损害。因为实际上我们无法达成这样的妥协，这个国家在政治上还没有做好准备。因此，花在追求这种妥协上的时间和精力，都会白白浪费掉。这些时间和精力还不如花在努力帮助失业人群上。
Put it this way: Republicans in Congress have voted 37 times to repeal health care reform, President Obama’s signature policy achievement. Do you really expect those same Republicans to reach a deal with the president over the nation’s fiscal future, which is closely linked to the future of federal health programs? Even if such a deal were somehow reached, do you really believe that the G.O.P. would honor that deal if and when it regained the White House?
换种方式表述：国会共和党人为了废除医疗改革，已经举行了37次投票，这可是奥巴马总统的标志性政绩。你真的以为同一批共和党人会与奥巴马总统就美国财政的未来达成妥协吗？财政的未来可是与联邦医疗福利计划的未来紧密联系在一起的。即使以某种方式达成了这样的妥协，你真的相信一旦共和党重新入主白宫，届时他们会尊重这样的妥协吗？
When will we be ready for a long-run fiscal deal? My answer is, once voters have spoken decisively in favor of one or the other of the rival visions driving our current political polarization. Maybe President Hillary Clinton, fresh off her upset victory in the 2018 midterms, will be able to broker a long-run budget compromise with chastened Republicans; or maybe demoralized Democrats will sign on to President Paul Ryan’s plan to privatize Medicare. Either way, the time for big decisions about the long run is not yet.
我们什么时候才能做好准备达成长期的财政妥协？我的答案是，针对造成当前政界两极分化的不同愿景，选民以决定性的优势选择这一种或那一种之时。或许希拉里·克林顿总统(Hillary Clinton)，在2018年中期选举中出人意料地获胜之后，能够马上与受到打击的共和党人达成一项长期的预算妥协；又或许，垂头丧气的民主党人会接受保罗·瑞安总统(Paul Ryan)私有化联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的方案。无论如何，现在还不是对长期财政前景作出重大决策的时候。
And because that time is not yet, influential people need to stop using the future as an excuse for inaction. The clear and present danger is mass unemployment, and we should deal with it, now.
而且由于时间还没到，有影响力的人物们不应该再拿未来当作无所作为的借口了。当下存在的清晰危险是大规模失业，我们需要现在就应对这个问题。