After nearly four hours of scanning thousands of artworks displayed by the Armory Show’s international roster of 205 exhibitors, I had an epiphany. A hypothesis about the nature of art making in the industrialized world took shape in my exhausted, overstimulated brain. I call it the “cut-and-paste” theory, which has to do not with actual scissors, paper and glue but with the actions people perform on Windows-equipped computers.
在花了近四个小时浏览了军械库展览的205个国际展商的上万件作品之后，我顿悟了。我受到过度刺激的疲惫的大脑形成了一个关于在工业化社会进行艺术创作的本质的假设。我称之为“剪切+粘贴”理论，它与现实的剪刀、纸和胶水无关，但是与人们在装有Windows系统的电脑上的行为有关。
The idea was triggered by thinking about the differences between the two parts of the show: the “Modern” on Pier 92, where 59 dealers display “historically significant Modern art,” and on Pier 94, the considerably more expansive “Contemporary,” where 146 dealers are showing all kinds of shiny, newfangled products.
这个想法是在我比较这场展览的两个部分的差别时产生的：在92号码头的“现代”展上，59位交易商们展示的是“在历史上具有重要意义的现代艺术品”；在94号更宽泛的“当代”展上，146位交易商展示的是各种闪亮、新奇的作品。
The Modern section is loaded with old favorites. Meredith Ward Fine Art has a selection of small works by American Modernists, including choice pieces by Arthur Dove, Elie Nadelman and Alfred Jensen. Mazzoleni Galleria d’Arte presents works by Italian avant-gardists like Lucio Fontana, Alighiero Boetti and Michelangelo Pistoletto. Allan Stone Projects offers an excellent solo show of paintings and drawings by the Pop-realist Wayne Thiebaud, including an electric, full-length portrait of a woman in a striped blouse and bell-bottom trousers from 1973-4.
现代展充满了人们的旧爱。梅雷迪斯·沃德美术馆(Meredith Ward Fine Art)挑选了美国现代主义艺术家的一些小作品，包括亚瑟·达夫(Arthur Dove)、埃利·纳德尔曼(Elie Nadelman)和阿尔弗雷德·延森(Alfred Jensen)的精选作品。马佐莱尼艺术馆(Mazzoleni Galleria d’Arte)展示的是意大利先锋派的作品，比如卢西奥·冯塔纳(Lucio Fontana)、阿里杰罗·波提(Alighiero Boetti)和米开朗基罗·皮斯特莱托(Michelangelo Pistoletto)。阿兰·斯通工作室(Allan Stone Projects)推出了一个精彩的个展，展出的是波普现实主义画家韦恩·第伯(Wayne Thiebaud)的油画和素描，包括他1973年至1974年创作的一副令人震惊的女人全身画像，画中的女子穿着条纹上衣和灯笼裤。
Here and there, single works stand out. Andrew Edlin Gallery has a big, powerful painted relief by the self-taught artist Thornton Dial, featuring a fierce eagle with a bouquet of fake flowers in its talons. At Carl Hammer Gallery, Roger Brown’s darkly comical painting of a horse hovering over a woman on her back under a sky of puffy clouds commemorates the apocryphal demise of Catherine the Great. At Ricco/Maresca, there’s a large, mysterious drawing of empty courtyards and trains going through tunnels by another self-taught master, Martín Ramírez.
随处都有单件作品脱颖而出。在安德鲁·埃德琳画廊(Andrew Edlin Gallery)，我们能看到自学成才的艺术家桑顿·戴尔(Thornton Dial)创作的一个巨大、威武的浮雕——一只抓着一束假花的凶猛的老鹰。在卡尔·哈默画廊(Carl Hammer Gallery)，我们能看到罗杰·布朗(Roger Brown)的一幅黑色幽默油画——一匹马盘旋在一个背对着我们的女人上方，天空中有大团云朵。这幅画是为了纪念人们杜撰的凯瑟琳大帝死亡的场景。里科/马雷斯卡(Ricco/Maresca)画廊有个巨大、神秘的素描，画的是空院子和穿过隧道的火车，作者是另一个自学成才的大师马丁·拉米雷(Martín Ramírez)。
Styles may vary in the Modern section, but an idea of what making art involves is shared by most: It should be the expression of one person’s singular vision.
现代展的风格各不相同，但是对艺术创作本质的看法大体是一致的：艺术应该是一个人独特视角的表达。
In the Contemporary section, the typical artist is something else: a canny juggler of ready-made signifiers. Everywhere you look, you see artists mixing and matching generic styles, images and devices in the forms of photographs, paintings, high-tech simulations and myriad nontraditional materials, sometimes using all these at once. Almost always, they do so to cerebrally sophisticated ends, as often as not in order to riff on art itself.
当代展上典型的艺术家则是另一个样子：一个使用现成的标志物的精明的骗子。不管你往哪儿看，你都能看到把各种风格、图像和工具混搭起来的艺术家，表现形式包括摄影、油画和高科技模拟（有时把这些形式全都用上），使用的非传统材料也是五花八门。但是他们这么做几乎总是为了显示大脑的复杂程度，而不是为了搞艺术。
An unusually appealing example of this type of work, at James Cohan Gallery, is an assemblage by Michelle Grabner, one of the Whitney Biennial’s three curators this year. The basic structure is an eight-foot-wide disc made by patching together flattened pieces cut from shiny metal garbage cans. Hanging by a cable from the ceiling, it turns freely this way and that. Attached to the disc are small paintings of gingham patterns and of radiating lines. Also affixed are an oblong, round-ended slab of natural wood and a framed photograph of the artist’s own backyard, in which a blurry rainbow arcs over unkempt grass in the foreground.
这类作品其中一个特别吸引人的例子是詹姆斯·科汉画廊(James Cohan Gallery)的一件组装作品，作者是今年惠特尼双年展的三位策展人之一——米歇尔·格拉布纳(Michelle Grabner)。这个作品的基本结构是一个八英尺宽的光盘，它是用从闪亮的金属垃圾桶上切下来的压平的碎块拼凑起来的。一根缆绳把它从天花板上垂下来，所以它可以随意旋转。光盘上装着一些小幅油画，画着条纹棉布或放射性线条。另外还装着一个长方形的两端为弧形的天然木板和一个镶框照片，照片上是这位艺术家的后院，前景是蓬乱的草坪，天上挂着模糊的彩虹。
For all the impressive physicality of Ms. Grabner’s piece, it’s the puzzling interplay of disparate signs that matters most. The garbage cans, the gingham patterns, the natural wood plank and the backyard photograph variously evoke suburban nostalgia. Ms. Grabner is not pining for a lost way of life, however. Rather, she presents a mind-teasing, rebus-like constellation of sociologically suggestive icons for viewers to sort out and make sense of for themselves.
格拉布纳的作品尽管具有让人印象深刻的物质性，但是最关键的还是各不相干的符号之间令人迷惑的相互作用。垃圾桶、条纹棉布图案、天然木板和后院的照片从不同层面引发了人们对郊区生活的怀念。不过，格拉布纳不是在怀念一种失去的生活方式。她展示了一组戏弄思维的、画谜似的、具有社会暗示意义的图标，让观众自己阐释它的意思。
At the heart of this is a process of executive decision making. It’s what you do on a computer when, by pointing and clicking and cutting and pasting, you move images out of different windows and bring them into relationships with one another in one window. My theory proposes that Microsoft Windows — in combination with the World Wide Web — has been the single greatest influence on artistic creativity of the past two decades.
它的核心是决策过程。就像你在用电脑时点击、剪切、粘贴一样，你把图像从不同的窗口移出来，放到一个窗口里，让它们发生联系。我的理论是在过去20年里唯一对艺术创造产生重大影响的就是微软的Windows系统——与万维网相结合。
If I’m right, this would account for the strange feeling of no context that prevails in contemporary art. A special section of the Contemporary wing is devoted to up-and-coming Chinese galleries. With the possible exception of a big, beautiful, expressionistic painting on paper of giant caterpillars on broad leaves by Chen Haiyan at Ink Studio, there’s hardly anything in these booths that couldn’t be mistaken for the work of a young Brooklynite. The world of today’s artist is a virtual world; it’s everywhere and nowhere.
如果我是正确的，那就能解释当代艺术普遍缺乏背景的奇怪感觉。当代展的一个特殊部分留给了很有前途的中国画廊。可能除了墨斋画廊的陈海燕那巨大、美丽的表现主义纸质油画——阔叶上的巨大的毛毛虫——这些展位上几乎没有任何东西不会被人误认为是一位年轻的布鲁克林艺术家的作品。当今艺术家的世界是个虚拟世界——它无处不在，却又哪儿都不在。
In this context of no context, some things stand out. At Moniquemeloche, a Chicago gallery, there’s a series of photographs in muted color by Carrie Schneider, each of which pictures a young woman sitting in a comfortable chair or reclining on a sofa in her home and reading a visibly much-used book. These vaguely religious images of quiet absorption are a blessed relief from the fair’s prevailing spirit of overeager, attention-seeking novelty.
在这种缺乏背景的大背景下，有些作品脱颖而出。芝加哥画廊Moniquemeloche展示了卡莉·施奈德(Carrie Schneider)拍摄的一系列色彩柔和的照片，每张照片上都是一个年轻女子坐在家里舒适的椅子上或者斜倚在沙发上读一本显然读了很多遍的书。这些安静的、全神贯注的、稍微有点像宗教画的图像在这场展览过于急切、寻求关注、追求新奇的大环境下显得难能可贵。