My father died earlier this year. It was sudden, and in what some of our friends described as every wife’s worst fear, my mom came home from work to discover him collapsed on the kitchen floor, lifeless.
我爸爸今年年初去世了。事发突然，而且按我们一些朋友所说，这几乎是每个妻子最为惊恐的一件事：我妈妈下班回到家，发现他倒在厨房地上，已经气息全无。
When I first heard the news, I felt betrayed, because I had always envisioned my dad getting sick in a hospital, perhaps from complications of pneumonia or heart failure. The hospital was a place where I could use my medical knowledge to intervene, to try to save him. That opportunity was gone. Then again, my first reaction really didn’t make sense because the death of a parent doesn’t make sense. Regardless of your relationship with them, your parents represent truth, and a part of my truth had just died.
当我最初听到这个消息时，感觉被人背叛了，因为我一直在预想着有朝一日，爸爸会病倒在医院里，也许他是出现了肺炎并发症或者心脏衰竭。在医院这种地方，我可以运用到自己的医学知识伸以援手，去尽量挽救他的生命。这样的机会消失了。可是，我的第一反应确实也讲不通，因为父母的死就是讲不通的。不管你们之间的关系如何，你的父母代表的是事实，而属于我的事实的一部分，刚刚去世了。
Before I had time to fully digest this new reality myself, I had to tell my children. As a leukemia doctor, I have a lot of difficult conversations. Sometimes I have to tell people that they have leukemia, or that their leukemia has come back. Sometimes I get to tell people that they’re cured – and those are really good days. And other times I have to break the news that we’ve run out of options to treat a particularly terrible variety of leukemia.
在我还未有余裕充分消化这个新的真相时，我就得把消息告诉孩子们。作为白血病专科医生，我曾经经历过很多艰难的对话。有时候我得告诉对方患上了白血病、或者白血病复发的消息。有时我要告诉对方，他们已经临床治愈了——这对我而言就是真正的好日子。还有些时候，我得将这样的消息和盘脱出：在治疗某种特别棘手的白血病方面，我们已经毫无对策了。
But this was the worst conversation I have ever initiated. Despite my years of bedside practice, and communication skills training be damned, I was wholly unprepared to sit on my son’s bed, look my children in the eyes and tell them their Poppy had died. I broke down after spitting out, “Guys, I have some bad news.”
但这仍然是我至今进行的最痛苦的谈话。尽管我有多年临床经验，还受过那么多沟通技能培训，可是，对于坐在儿子床边，直视孩子们的眼睛，告诉他们爷爷去世的消息，我仍然丝毫没有准备。我对他们脱口而出：“孩子们，我要说个坏消息。”
I should have known better – this was not the first time I realized how hard it could be to swim in my family’s waters while wearing my white coat.
我本应该知道的——这不是我第一次察觉到，穿着医生的白大褂在家人的这汪池水中游泳，是件多么困难的事情。
My dad, a former journalist, had a variety of medical problems, and would enlist my help in navigating his conditions and his physician’s recommendations, as I am the only doctor in our family. I quickly learned the distinction, though, between his asking for advice, and his actually following it.
我爸爸以前是记者，身体有不少毛病，由于我是整个家族里唯一的医生，所以在掌握病情、权衡医生建议方面，他得依靠我的帮助。不过我很快就发现了，在寻求建议和依从建议方面，还存在着一条清晰的界限。
“I’ve decided to let the doctor remove my gallbladder,” he told me toward the end of last year. “I talked to some friends, who say it’s really no big deal.” For weeks before this announcement, he and I had been discussing his medical options, during which I tried to gently dissuade him from undergoing the surgery.
“我决定让医生切除我的胆囊了，”在去年将近年底时他告诉我：“我跟几个朋友聊了聊，他们都说这手术是小意思。”在此之前，有好几个星期，我一直在跟他分析医疗决策，想要温和地说服他放弃做手术。
“O.K.” I said slowly, once I got over my surprise. “When are you having it done?”
“好吧，”在按捺住惊讶之情后，我缓缓说：“你准备什么时候做手术？”
“December 24th. I’ll stay overnight and be discharged on Christmas,” he answered. He was pleased that he could have the operation in 2012, so it wouldn’t count toward his insurance deductible for the next calendar year.
“12月24日。留院一晚上，圣诞节我就能出院了，”他告诉我。他很高兴能在2012年年内做手术，这样就不用纳入次年的医保免赔额额度内了。
“I’m not sure I’m comfortable with your having the surgery and being monitored over a holiday,” I responded, probably a little too quickly. “Hospitals often have skeletal staffing then, so if something goes wrong, your doctor may not be on call to handle it. Maybe you should wait.”
“你要在节日期间动手术跟术后恢复，这让我觉得有点担心，”我的回答恐怕过于仓促了一点。“在那种时候，医院的人手通常特别不足，假如出了事，你的医生恐怕都不能及时去处理。也许你应该再等一等。”
He had the surgery on Dec. 24, and made it through the operation just fine.
他还是在12月24日做了手术，而且手术进行得很顺利。
Thinking through our back-and-forth, I suppose he had as much difficulty as I did separating my role as a son from my role as a doctor. To my father, there probably wasn’t much difference between the kid who used to try to convince him to take me and my brother for frozen custard after a day at the pool and the man trying to talk him out of gallbladder surgery.
回想起我们反反复复的争论，我想，和我一样，我爸爸也很难将我作儿子的角色跟作医生的角色全然分开吧。在我爸爸眼中，那个曾经玩了一天水，然后苦苦哀求他带着自己和哥哥去吃奶油冻的孩子，和那个想要劝他不要动胆囊切除术的男人，恐怕并没有多少分别。
On my end, I was certainly taught that I should be a doctor only to my patients. This is a safeguard, to help ensure I remained objective and made good medical decisions on their behalf. Emotions, particularly those that steep over years, can act like vapors that cloud our judgment, despite our best intentions. But when your father asks for your help, it’s hard to say no.
从我这方面来看，我得到的一个教训是只应该对病人扮演医生的角色。这是一道安全屏障，可以用来确保我保持客观中立，为他们做出良好的医疗决策。感情，尤其是经历多年培育的感情，有时像是一道水雾遮蔽我们的决断力，就算我们本意并非如此。但是，如果是你的父亲寻求你的帮助，你实在很难说不。
We weren’t alone in this confusion over my role. At my father’s funeral, and at Shiva thereafter, a couple of people came up to me to express their sympathy. “Well, you did what you could” they said. The implication being, his health wasn’t the best, and even a good doctor can only help so much.
关于我的角色，产生困扰的还并非我们一家人。在我父亲的葬礼以及后面的头七中，几次有人主动向我表达他们的同情。“好啦，你已经尽力了，”他们说。言下之意是，他的身体一向不太好，医术再高明，也没有回天之力。
Years earlier, people had made the same comment to me at the funeral of my uncle, a retired professor who died of leukemia. Because of my specialty, his death had hit close to home. And while I did steer my uncle to the care of my colleagues and tried to help educate him about his cancer, I did not treat him.
几年前，在我叔叔的葬礼上，也有人说过类似的话。我叔叔是个退休教授，死于白血病。这正是我的专业，所以他的死对我们一家人的打击尤其沉重。尽管我确实是请同事来照顾叔叔，并且跟他讲解过他的病情，可是，我并不是他的主治医生。