YANGON, Myanmar — During his visit to Myanmar last week, President Obama sounded a word of caution, saying the process of reform was “by no means complete or irreversible.” His tone was decidedly less enthusiastic than during his previous visit, in 2012. Back then, the recent inauguration of the pseudo-civilian government of President Thein Sein seemed to signal the advent of liberalization after almost half a century of military rule. Many political dissidents were then released from jail or house arrest, notably the democracy icon Daw Aung San Suu Kyi.
缅甸仰光——上周访问缅甸时，奥巴马提醒说，改革的进程“绝非全面，绝非不可逆转”。与2012年访问缅甸时相比，他这次的语气显然缺乏热情。当时，总统登盛(Thein Sein)的伪文官政府刚就职不久，他们似乎传达出这样一种信号：在经历了近半个世纪的军事统治之后，缅甸将迎来自由开放。很多被监禁或软禁的异见者获得了释放，著名的民主斗士昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)就是其中之一。
But now progress has stalled on almost all major issues: power sharing with the opposition, peace talks with armed ethnic groups, Buddhist-Muslim relations, minority rights, media freedom. Progress has stalled because the military is tightening its grip once again.
但如今，在几乎所有重大问题上，进展都已停滞。这些问题包括与反对派分享权力、与族裔武装团体开展和平会谈、改善佛教徒和穆斯林的关系、让少数派享有权利，保证媒体的自由。进展停滞是因为军方再一次收紧了管控。
The Tatmadaw, as the armed forces are called, has grown increasingly assertive in recent months, even as the country prepares for a historic general election next year, the first since the military junta’s formal dissolution in 2011. Not only is the Tatmadaw increasingly exercising the expansive prerogatives it gave itself in the 2008 Constitution; it is trying to extend its powers further.
缅甸的武装部队被称为缅甸国防军(Tatmadaw)。虽然该国在准备迎接明年的历史性大选，这也是2011年军政府正式解散以来的首次大选，但近几个月来，军方却变得越来越强硬。缅甸国防军不仅越来越多地行使其特权——它在2008年版的宪法中规定自己享有许多特权——而且还试图进一步扩张权力。
The recent killing of the freelance journalist Par Gyi, a former bodyguard of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, is just one glaring example. Mr. Par Gyi was allegedly shot while in army custody in early October. At first the army tried to hide his death, only to claim three weeks after it occurred that he was shot by soldiers while trying to escape. After the authorities exhumed Mr. Par Gyi, images of his mutilated body circulated on Facebook and outraged the general public, confirming suspicions that he had been tortured.
昂山素季前保镖、自由撰稿人巴吉(Par Gyi)最近遭到杀害，就是一个明显的例子。据称，10月上旬时，巴吉在被军队羁押期间中弹身亡。起初，军方试图掩盖巴吉死亡的消息，直到三周之后，才声称他在试图逃跑时遭士兵枪杀。巴吉残缺的遗体被当局掘出，其照片在 Facebook上转发，证实了他曾遭受折磨的怀疑，令民众大为愤慨。
But the episode seems only to have revived the military’s siege mentality. The army is unlikely to allow any civilian court to look into the case; it will rather prosecute its own commanders if necessary to protect the institution’s credibility overall. And under the 2008 Constitution, “in the adjudication of military justice,” the decision of the commander in chief is final.
但这起事件似乎只是让军方又一次觉得自己四面受敌。军方不可能让任何文职法庭来调查这桩案件；如果确有必要保护军方的整体公信力，他们宁愿起诉自己的指挥官。2008年版宪法规定，“在军事司法审判中”，最高统帅的决定就是最终决定。
Submitting to civilian oversight would be risky. A recent report by Harvard Law School names three senior generals in connection with crimes against humanity and war crimes suffered by ethnic Karen between 2005 and 2008. Transitional justice is a threat to the army’s unity, and in the past would have been just the kind of threat to justify a coup. The issue today isn’t so much whether the military would consider a takeover — times have changed — but rather how far it will go to protect its narrow interests in the face of public opposition, just a year before a general election.
接受文职人员监督可能会有风险。哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)最近发布的一份报告指出，缅甸国防军的三名高级将领，在2005至2008年间克伦人遭受种族迫害期间，涉嫌犯有危害人类罪和战争罪。过渡时期的公正判决会对军队的团结形成威胁，在过去，这种威胁足以引起一场政变。但时代不同了，如今的问题不是军方是否考虑接管政府，而是就在大选的前一年，军方为了保护自己的狭隘利益，会不顾公众反对，做出多少倒行逆施的事情。
Another gauge of its resolve is constitutional reform. Throughout 2013, a special committee appointed by Parliament solicited views from the public about whether, and how, the 2008 Constitution might be improved. In a separate petition, the main opposition party gathered five million signatures from people asking for a relaxation of the amendment clause. Modifying major provisions of the Constitution, including the amendment clause itself, requires a 75 percent majority in Parliament — which gives the military veto power since by law it holds 25 percent of parliamentary seats — and then a majority of votes in a national referendum. This exceedingly high threshold blocks any fundamental constitutional reform, including of the provision prohibiting Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s candidacy for the presidency and of clauses governing taxation and the appointment of provincial authorities in ethnic areas.
另一个显示其决心的方面是宪法改革。2013年，对于是否以及如何改进2008年版宪法的问题，议会任命了一个特别委员会，来征求社会各界人士的意见。主要的反对党派人士收集了500万个签名，提交了一份单独的请愿书，要求放宽修正案条款。要修改宪法的主要规定，包括修正案条款本身，需要先在议会获得75%的多数票——这让军方掌握了否决权，因为法律规定军方拥有25%的议会席位——然后在全民公决中获得多数票。有了这个极高的门槛，人们难以对宪法进行任何重大修改，包括宪法中禁止昂山素季获得总统候选资格的规定，以及关于税制和任命民族聚居区省级领导人的方式的条款。
Yet during debates in Parliament last week, the military’s representatives declared that the amendment clause should be maintained. The Tatmadaw may never have considered allowing Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to run for president. For a time, however, it did seem to want to increase the autonomy of ethnic regions, if only to curry support among ethnic political parties and armed groups. Its recent inflexibility is a notable change, and a sign of its growing insecurity.
而在议会上周的辩论中，军方代表宣称修正案条款应予保留。缅甸国防军可能永远不会考虑让昂山素季参加总统竞选。但是，有一段时间，它似乎确实想增加民族聚居区的自治权，其目的可能只是为了换取各族裔政党和武装团体的支持。军方最近缺乏灵活性的做法，是一个明显的变化，显示了其日益加深的不安全感。
This is especially ominous because the military’s hardening risks causing friction with the Thein Sein government: Last December, the ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party, an offshoot of the old military junta, had granted its conditional approval for amending the Constitution’s amendment clause.
这是非常不好的预兆，因为军方的强硬可能引起与登盛政府的摩擦：去年12月，身为前军政府的一个分支，执政党联邦巩固与发展党(Union Solidarity and Development Party)，有条件地同意了对宪法修正案条款进行修订。
In the initial phase of liberalization, the military tended to follow Mr. Thein Sein’s reform initiatives. The generals rarely defied the political agenda of the president, himself a career army bureaucrat, except to defend their economic and tactical interests. But according to several senior aides to Mr. Thein Sein, relations between the president and the commander in chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, are increasingly out of sync. Several sources close to both men told me that General Min Aung Hlaing’s tougher tactics of late were reminiscent of the style of Senior Gen. Than Shwe, Myanmar’s military leader from 1992 to 2011, suggesting that General Than Shwe may still be pulling the strings behind the scenes.
在自由化的初始阶段，军方倾向于遵循登盛的改革倡议。除了维护经济和战略利益外，相关将领很少违抗总统的政治议程。登盛总统自己也是一名职业军人出身的官僚。但登盛的几名高级助手表示，总统和大将敏昂莱(U Min Aung Hlaing)之间的关系越来越不和谐。和两人均关系密切的几名人士告诉我，敏昂莱最近采取了更强硬的策略，令人回想起了丹瑞大将(Than Shwe)的行事风格，这表明，丹瑞大将可能依然在幕后操纵局势。丹瑞在1992年至2011年期间是缅甸的军政府领导人。
Lately, the military leadership has called for expanding the role of the National Defense and Security Council, a military-dominated 11-member body that holds wide-ranging powers, including the right to take over from the civilian government in a state of emergency. During the parliamentary debates last week, military representatives argued that the N.D.S.C. should be able to dissolve Parliament if one-third of the seats become vacant.
近来，军方领导人呼吁扩大国防和安全委员会(National Defense and Security Council)的职能。由军方占据主导地位的该机构有11名成员，握有广泛的权力，其中包括在进入紧急状态后接管文官政府。在上周的议会辩论期间，军方代表称，国防和安全委员会应有权在议会三分之一的席位空缺时解散议会。