PALO ALTO, Calif. — It is minutes to midnight. A sultry full moon hangs over Stanford’s Memorial Church, bathing the campus’s red roofs and adobe-toned walls.
加州帕洛阿尔托——距午夜十二点只差几分钟了。一轮撩人的圆月挂在斯坦福纪念教堂(Stanford’s Memorial Church)上空，朦胧的月光洒向校园里的红色屋顶和土砖色墙壁。
In the Quad, thousands of students mill around, some bobbing drunkenly, some giggling nervously, most of them wearing clothes.
在方院里，数千名学生转来转去，有些人喝醉了跳着舞，一些人紧张地傻笑，大多数人都穿着衣服。
Finally, a male senior saunters over to a group of the youngest-looking women and asks: “Hey! You freshmen? Can I kiss you?”
终于，一名大四男生走到了看起来最年轻的一群女孩子中间，问：“嘿，你们是新生吧？我可以吻你们吗？”
As the Stanford Band plays and a giant screen shows famous movie clutches, the bravest women step forward and receive the traditional welcome to one of the nation’s most prestigious universities: a big wet upperclassman smack.
斯坦福乐队演奏着音乐，一个巨大的屏幕放映着著名电影的片段，最勇敢的女孩子们走上前，接受美国最负盛名的大学之一的传统欢迎仪式：来自学长的热吻。
Days later, another tradition arrives: flu and mononucleosis, the “kissing disease,” sweep the dorms.
几天后，另一个传统来了：流感和单核细胞增多症，即所谓“接吻病”，席卷各个宿舍。
Full Moon on the Quad — normally celebrated beneath the academic year’s first full moon but this year held on Oct. 22 because of a conflict with Homecoming Week — is an event unique in American education: an orgy of interclass kissing reluctantly but officially sanctioned by the university.
方院里的月圆之夜——通常在每学年开始后的第一个满月之日庆祝，但是今年因那天和假期冲突而安排在10月22日，这是美国校园中独有的一项活动：跨年级的接吻狂欢。校方虽然不情愿，但还是正式批准了这项活动。
It is a domestic example of a new field in public health, “mass-gathering medicine.” The best-known example is Saudi Arabia’s multimillion-dollar efforts to keep the annual pilgrimage to Mecca as epidemic-free as possible.
这是新的公共健康领域“大型人群聚集医学”(mass-gathering medicine)在美国的一个例子。最知名的例子是沙特阿拉伯政府斥资数百万美元的行动，目的是让年度麦加朝圣活动尽可能不爆发传染病。
For Stanford, the struggle is: Since officials can’t outlaw it (yes, they have tried), how can they make it safer?
对于斯坦福大学来说，挑战是：既然校方无法禁止（没错，他们试过了），怎样能使它更安全？
The first step, said Dr. Ira M. Friedman, director of the Vaden Student Health Center, is to make consent paramount. “We try to create an environment in which they don’t feel they must participate in the exchange of oral secretions,” he said.
瓦登学生健康中心(Vaden Student Health Center)的主任艾拉·M·弗里德曼(Ira M. Friedman)医生说，第一步是强调自愿这个原则。他说，“我们试图营造一个环境，让学生们不会觉得自己必须参与这种交换口腔分泌物的行为。”
His center also offers shots against what it can fight: flu and meningococcal meningitis, a rare but sometimes dangerous infection known as “freshman meningitis.”
他的中心还提供预防流感和流行性脑膜炎的疫苗注射，流行性脑膜炎是一种不常见但有时很危险的感染，有“新生脑膜炎”之称。
To make it safer, the evening is overseen by student sobriety monitors and decorated with hand-drawn signs — of the ilk that usually say “Beat Cal” — but bearing slogans like “Consent is Sexy.”
为了提高安全性，当晚的活动受到学生戒酒督察员的监督，还挂起了手绘的标语——通常这种标语写的是“打败加州大学”等等，但针对这个活动改成了“自愿才性感”之类的口号。
But the most crucial role is played by the “peer health educators” who live in each dorm.
但是最重要的角色由每个宿舍的“同龄健康教育者”扮演。
They meet with freshmen before, and ask any with cold symptoms to feel free to watch, but not to kiss anyone.
他们会在活动前与新生见面，告诉任何有感冒症状的人可以旁观，但是不要吻任何人。
And they teach safe kissing.
他们还教学生们如何安全接吻。
“We tell them, ‘Don’t floss beforehand, don’t brush, don’t do anything that could create microabrasions in your gums for germs to get in,” said Michelle Lee Mederos, a former educator who graduated in 2011. “And we have tables where we offer mints and little Dixie cups of mouthwash.”
2011年毕业的前教育者米歇尔·李·梅德罗斯(Michelle Lee Mederos)说，“我告诉他们，之前不要用牙线，不要刷牙，不要做任何可能让牙床出现小磨损的事情，否则细菌就可能乘虚而入。我们还摆放了桌子，提供薄荷糖和小杯的漱口水。”
Mouthwash is the main line of defense. This year there were two tables dotted with paper cups, along with condoms and other sexual health supplies.
漱口水是主要的防线。今年的活动摆了两个桌子，上面放着纸杯，还有安全套和其他性健康用品。
The educators also have square latex dental dams to offer, “but they’re generally made fun of,” said Ms. Mederos, who used them in dorm demonstrations of how to safely perform oral sex on a woman. “In two years of ordering supplies, I had to order them only once — for those demonstrations.”
教育者们还提供方形的口腔保护膜，“但是它们基本上只是成为嘲笑的对象，”梅德罗斯说。她在宿舍里用这些乳胶制成的保护膜演示如何安全地对一名女性实施口交。“两年里，我只订购了一次乳胶膜——就是为了做这些演示。”
Although the conventional wisdom is that mononucleosis spikes after the event, the health center has never compiled that data, Dr. Friedman said.
弗里德曼医生说，尽管普遍认为在活动之后单核细胞增多症的发病率会激增，但健康中心从未好好统计过这一数据。
“It’s also flu season,” he said. “But we do think the event is a potentiator.”
他说，“每年这个时候也恰好是流感季，但是我们确实认为这个活动起到了推波助澜的作用。”
The event’s origins are lost in the fog of history; legend holds that it began in the late 1800s with senior men presenting freshman women with roses.
该活动的起源已经消失在历史的迷雾中；相传它起始于19世纪末，从大四男生给大一女生送玫瑰开始。
Later, it waxed and waned, reputedly practiced sometimes by some fraternities. Many graduates over age 40 have never heard of it.
后来，这项活动起起伏伏，据称某些兄弟会有时举行该活动。许多40岁以上的毕业生从来没有听说过这种活动。
In 1988, several student officers made it formal.
1988年，几名学生领袖将其列为一项正式的活动。
“It was folklore,” said Julie Lythcott-Haims, one of those officers. “We took it off the shelf and dusted it off. We had roses, a string quartet, maybe some champagne. A couple of hundred students showed up.”
其中一名学生领袖朱莉·利思科特-海姆斯(Julie Lythcott-Haims)说，“那是民间传说。我们把这个被遗弃的活动重新办了起来。我们有玫瑰，弦乐四重奏，也许还有一些香槟。大约200名学生前来参加。”
When she returned a decade later as an administrator (she eventually became the beloved “Freshman Dean Julie”), it had “become a thing,” she said. “Thousands were showing up. It was crazy, it was wild. There were concerns about alcohol and safety.”
她说，10年后，当她回到学校担任行政人员时（最终她成为受到爱戴的“新生主任朱莉”），她说，这已经“成为了一件大事。有数千人参与。很疯狂，很野。有人担忧酗酒和安全问题。”
Starting in 2002, deans debated outlawing it, rejected that as futile and decided to impose order instead.
从2002年开始，系主任们就禁止这项活动展开辩论，最终认为禁止也没用，于是决定实行一些秩序。
Now the Quad is barricaded. Campus police check student IDs. Paramedics stand by. A concert is held so nonkissers have something to do.
现在，方院设置了路障。校园警察检查学生的证件。医务人员在现场待命。活动中还举行音乐会，这样不愿接吻的人也有事可做。
It has been canceled only once: in 2009, the “pandemic swine flu” year.
这项活动只被取消过一次：2009年，“猪流感”爆发的那年。
After East Coast schools, which open earlier, reported outbreaks, “we decided we couldn’t live with the risk,” Dr. Friedman said. “So we made a very unpopular decision.”
在开学较早的东海岸学校报告疫情爆发的情况之后，弗里德曼医生说，“我们认为我们不能冒这个险。所以我们做了一个非常不受欢迎的决定。”
Dr. Friedman conceded that the ban “didn’t work 100 percent, but I think it made some difference.”
弗里德曼医生承认，禁令“没有百分之百奏效，但是我认为产生了一些效果”。
Lots of students got flu, “but we weren’t as high as national or even regional rates,” he said.
他说，许多学生得了流感，“但是发病率低于全国甚至地区水平。”
Since 2002, new traditions have emerged, leaving yesterday’s roses looking wilted.
从2002年起，新的传统出现了，让昔日的玫瑰显得枯萎。
One co-op’s contingent attends wearing just body paint. There is a “same-sex kissing” area.
一伙职业教育班的学生身上啥也没穿，只有体绘。活动中还开辟了一块“同性接吻”区。
And many kissers wear “bingo boards” naming 25 types of kissees they seek: one from each freshman dorm, for example, a rower or a fencer, a redhead, a pothead, a pair of twins, someone over 6-foot-5, someone who got 2,400 on the SAT, and so on. Bingo is five in a row, blackout bingo is the whole board.
许多接吻者带着“宾果板”，上面写着他们想要的25种亲吻：例如，每个新生宿舍一个、一个桨手或击剑手、一个红头发的、一个吸大麻的、一对双胞胎、一个身高高于6英尺5英寸的人、一个SAT得了2400分的人，等等。一行五个，全都完成了就可以把整个板子涂黑。
The middle square is always the Tree — the Stanford marching band’s mascot. By unwritten rule, the Tree kisses all comers, of all sexes. Its escorts, the Tree Protection Service, keep count.
中间的方格通常是“树”（Tree）——斯坦福军乐队的吉祥物。根据不成文的规定，“树”亲吻所有人，无论性别。它的随从，树保护服务(Tree Protection Service)负责统计。
“Never kiss the Tree,” warned Amanda Ach, who graduated in 2012. “He’s like Patient Zero.”
2012年毕业的阿曼达·阿赫(Amanda Ach)警告说，“千万别跟树接吻。他就像是‘零号病患’。”
Clearly, few take that advice. Everyone acknowledges that the Tree holds the record, though no one is sure what it is.
显然，没有多少人采纳这个建议。人人都承认“树”保持着某种纪录，但是没有人肯定这纪录是多少。
Last year’s Tree, Nicoletta von Heidegger, told The Stanford Daily before the 2012 Full Moon that she had heard it was more than 1,000, set by a previous female Tree in 2002.
去年的树是尼科莱塔·冯·海德格(Nicoletta von Heidegger)，她在2012年的满月活动之前告诉《斯坦福日报》(The Standford Daily)，她听说纪录是超过1000，是2002年扮演“树”的一个女孩创造的。
She was taking vitamins and “excited but a little nervous,” she said then, because she was both “very competitive” but “quite a germaphobe.”
她在服用维生素，“兴奋但是有点紧张”，她当时说，因为她一方面“非常想挑战纪录”，但另一方面又对细菌非常恐惧。
When last seen at the event, this year’s Tree, Calvin Studebaker, was standing under the arch as it broke up, shouting, “I only need 10 more to break the record!”
卡尔文·斯图贝克(Calvin Studebaker)扮演了今年的“树”，他在活动将要结束时站在拱门下面大喊：“再来10个我就能打破纪录了！”
Charlotte Martin, his mouthwash bearer, swore that he was germ-free.
给他拿漱口水的夏洛特·马丁(Charlotte Martin)发誓说他很干净。
“He doesn’t have mono!” she insisted. “He gets a shot of Listerine every three kisses!”
“他没有接吻病！”她说，“每吻三个人他就会用李施德林(Listerine)漱口！”
He kissed 566, he said three days later.
三天之后，他说自己吻了566个人。
“I’m pretty sure that’s the male Tree record,” he said. “How am I? I feel great.”
“我敢肯定，这是男士‘树’的纪录，”他说，“我感觉怎样？感觉好极了。”
Caroline Doyle, a freshman, said later: “My friend and I decided to go for 100, and we reached it. We split it down the middle.”
一年级的卡罗琳·多伊尔(Caroline Doyle)后来说：“我和朋友决定一共吻100个，我们做到了，各吻了50个。”
The next morning, she had a “little bit of a sore throat” and went to the health center.
第二天早上，她感觉“喉咙有点痛”，于是去了健康中心。
All her tests were negative, she said, “but, yes, they told me there’s an incubation period.”
她做的所有测试均为阴性，她说，“但是他们说存在潜伏期。”
Francisca Gilmore did get flu in 2009, she wrote in an e-mail, but returned anyway in 2010, 2011 and 2012, sometimes keeping tally on her forearm with a Sharpie. She got strep throat twice.
弗朗西丝·吉尔摩(Francisca Gilmore)在一封电子邮件中说，她在2009年患上了流感，但还是参加了2010、2011和2012年的活动，有时她会用一支记号笔在自己的前臂上记录数字。她曾两次患上链球菌性咽炎。
“The repercussions were brutal, and I wish I had done better on the Econ 1A final I took later,” she admitted. “But I think in the long run, getting to tell people I've kissed over 50-plus people in a night is worth it.”
“后果很惨，我后来的经济学1A课程期末考试考得不理想，”她承认，“但我认为，从长远来看，告诉别人我曾在一个晚上吻过50多个人是值得的。”