BRIAN BANKS was one of America’s best high school football players when, in 2002, at age 16, he was accused of rape.
2002年被指强奸时，16岁的布莱恩·班克斯(Brian Banks)是当时全美最好的高中美式橄榄球选手。
The accuser, Wanetta Gibson, said that Banks had forced her into a stairway at their high school in California and raped her.
提出指控的是瓦内塔·吉布森(Wanetta Gibson)，她说班克斯把她强行带到两人就读的加州中学的一个楼梯处，而后强奸了她。
Expelled from school and then later convicted of rape, Banks served more than five years in prison. He became not a professional football star but a registered sex offender.
班克斯被学校开除，并被判强奸罪成立，在监狱里服刑五年多。他没有成为职业足球明星，而是成了一个有案底的性罪犯。
Then, in 2011, Gibson recanted. There was no rape (apparently she made the accusation to prevent her mom from learning that she had been sexually active). Banks was eventually exonerated and his conviction overturned, and, at 28, he played briefly for the Atlanta Falcons. But, after a decade away from football, it was too late to catch up.
然而在2011年，吉布森收回了证词。不存在强奸（原来她给出这项指控的原因是不想让妈妈知道她有性行为）。班克斯最终被宣告无罪，撤销定罪，并以28岁的年龄在亚特兰大猎鹰队打了短暂一段时间。然而离开橄榄球10年，已经很难再跟上。
That kind of nightmare is what many Americans have in mind when they fear an aggressive clampdown on sexual violence. It’s a legitimate fear.
这正是许多美国人心中的噩梦，他们担心针对性暴力的打击过分苛刻。这是个合理的担忧。
Jon Krakauer tells the story of Brian Banks in his terrific new book, “Missoula,” as a cautionary reminder. Yet, in his book about acquaintance rapes in a college town, he also makes clear that what is far more common is another kind of injustice: perpetrators of rape who get away with it again and again.
在精彩纷呈的新书《米苏拉》(Missoula)中，强·克拉考尔(Jon Krakauer)用布莱恩·班克斯的故事来警醒世人。然而通过对某大学城的熟人强奸事件的描述，他还明确了另一种更加常见的不公正：强奸案的实施者一次又一次地逃脱惩罚。
One careful study found that false allegations make up between 2 percent and 10 percent of rape cases. Yet victims (mostly women and girls, but also men and boys) are routinely tarnished or blamed; Human Rights Watch reported this month that nearly two-thirds of members of the military who report sexual assaults face reprisals. Given the risks, the great majority of rape cases are never reported to the authorities.
一项细致的研究发现，强奸案中错误指控占2%到10%。然而受害人（多数时候是女人和女孩，但也有男人和男孩）经常被玷污名誉或指责；人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)本月的报告称，在军中报告了性侵犯行为的人，将近三分之二会遭到报复。鉴于这样的风险，绝大多数强奸案没有报告给当局。
The result is impunity. And that fosters more rape.
其结果是作恶者不受惩罚。这就引致更多的强奸罪行。
Scholars have found that many sexual assaults are carried out by a small number of men who strike repeatedly — often without realizing that they are rapists.
学者们发现，许多性侵案件都是一小批惯犯所为——他们常常意识不到自己是强奸犯。
The way this research is conducted is astonishing: Men were simply surveyed and asked whether they had ever had sex with someone who didn’t want to. Remarkably, men repeatedly said, yes, they had.
这项研究的方法令人不可思议：一些男性接受调查，回答自己是否与不愿意的人发生过性关系。惊人的是，男子常常会回答，是的，他们有过。
One of the most chilling sections of Krakauer’s book quotes a fraternity brother, “Frank,” describing his technique to a researcher, David Lisak:
克拉考尔的书中，最令人不寒而栗的一段内容来自学校兄弟会会友“弗兰克”(Frank)，他向研究人员大卫·利萨克(David Lisak)描述了自己的方法：
“We’d be on the lookout for the good-looking girls, especially the freshmen, the really young ones. They were the easiest. ... Then we’d get them drinking right away. ... They’d be guzzling it, you know, because they were freshmen, kind of nervous.”
“我们会寻找漂亮的女孩，尤其是大一新生，年龄小的那些。她们最容易……然后我们会立刻带她们去喝酒……她们会喝个不停，你知道的，因为她们是大一新生，有点紧张。”
“Frank” recounted how he targeted one young woman, plied her with alcohol-spiked punch, and then led her to a bed. “At some point, she started saying things like ... ‘I don’t want to do this right away,’ or something like that. I just kept working on her clothes ... and she started squirming. But that actually helped, because her blouse came off easier. ... She tried to push me off, so I pushed her back down. ... I mean, she was so plastered that she probably didn’t know what was going on, anyway. I don’t know, maybe that’s why she started pushing on me. But, you know, I just kept leaning on her, pulling off her clothes.”
“弗兰克”回忆了自己锁定一名年轻女性，用酒精浓度超高的潘趣酒灌她，然后把她带到床上的经过。“她一度开始说这样的话，‘我不想现在就做这件事’，或者类似的意思。我还是不停地脱她的衣服……然后她就开始扭动起来。但这其实对我有利，因为她的衬衫就更容易脱下来了……她试图把我推开，于是我就再把她推倒。……我是说，她醉得太厉害了，可能根本不知道是怎么回事。我不知道，或许正是因为这个原因她才会推我。但是，你知道，我还是继续向她靠近，脱掉她的衣服。”
“Frank” said he kept his arm across her chest, by the base of her neck, to reduce her squirming as he had sex with her. When he was finished, he dressed and returned to the party.
“弗兰克”说，他把一只胳膊搭在她的脖子上，按着她的胸部，不让她扭动身体，与她发生了性关系。完事之后，他穿好衣服，回到了派对。
And the woman? “She left.”
那个女的呢？“她离开了。”
There are no easy solutions, but one way to fight the epidemic is legal: Prosecute aggressively, while recognizing that sexual encounters are often complex, ambiguous, fueled by alcohol, and prone to he-said-she-said uncertainties.
没有容易的解决办法，但遏制这种行为的盛行的一种手段是通过法律：积极地起诉，同时认识到，性接触通常是复杂、模棱两可的，是被酒精驱使的，容易出现双方各执一词的模糊状况。
Another way to fight back is cultural: Blunt conversations among men and women alike about consent, alcohol, and the need for friends to step up with what’s called “bystander intervention.” That means that just as you don’t let a friend drive drunk, you don’t let a friend take advantage of someone — or let a plastered friend get steered to a predator’s bed.
另一种抗击这种行为的办法是文化上的：男性和女性都应该直言不讳地谈一谈怎么算赞同、喝酒的时候有哪些规矩，以及作为朋友站出来进行“旁观者干预”的必要性。这意味着就像你不会让朋友酒后开车一样，你也不会让朋友占其他人的便宜——或者让一个喝醉了的朋友被带到强奸犯的床上。
ONE of the fundamental challenges is that the word rape conjures a mental image of a stranger jumping out of bushes. Sure, that happens. But most sexual assault happens among acquaintances. We flinch at the truth that most rapists are less likely to point a gun than to proffer a plastic cup of booze, that they charm and kiss before they menace. That’s why men must be a part of these discussions, for it’s a failing of all society that men like Frank are unaware that they are rapists.
最根本的挑战之一是，强奸一词会让人脑海中浮现出一个从灌木丛里跳出来的陌生人的形象。当然了，确实有这种情况。不过，多数性侵发生在熟人之间。我们面对这一事实退缩了：那就是多数强奸犯不会拿着枪口指着你，而是会递给你一杯酒，在胁迫之前他们会哄你高兴和亲吻你。这就是为什么男性必须参与这些讨论，因为弗兰克这样的男性意识不到自己是强奸犯，这是整个社会的失败。