IT is a vulgar truth universally acknowledged that the creators of “Sex and the City” on HBO, Darren Star and Michael Patrick King, ratcheted up the raunch of the original Candace Bushnell column about single women in Manhattan.
世人皆知，在HBO剧集《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)中，主创达伦·斯塔(Darren Star)和迈克尔·帕特里克·金(Michael Patrick King)把坎迪斯·布什内尔(Candace Bushnell)原本关于曼哈顿单身女性的专栏段子进一步低俗化了。
It is also a vulgar truth universally acknowledged that Judd Apatow, the lord of male nerd revels like “Knocked Up” and “Superbad,” ratcheted up the raunch of the original “Bridesmaids” script by Kristen Wiig and Annie Mumolo. He pitched the nervous screenwriters on the idea of the now famous fart-and-poop scene where the women are hit with an epic blast of food-poisoning while trying on gowns at a fancy shop.
世人也皆知，在电影《伴娘》(Bridesmaids)中，《一夜大肚》(Knocked Up)和《太坏了》(Superbad)等“烂仔帮”电影的大师贾德·阿帕陶(Judd Apatow)也把克里斯汀·韦格(Kristen Wiig)和安妮·玛莫罗(Annie Mumolo)的剧本进一步粗俗化了。他向两位情绪紧张的编剧提出一个想法：女人们在一家高档商店试礼服的时候，严重食物中毒的后果爆发了。随之而来的屎尿屁场景现在已经变得很出名。
But, more and more, women are bringing the raunch to the screen on their own. Hollywood is still all about the dumb testosterone tentpoles and parched when it comes to women filmmakers. Yet there is a small but significant trend of women writing, directing and producing more sexually explicit movies and TV shows.
不过，女性自己也越来越多地把低俗桥段搬上银幕。在好莱坞，主打内容仍然是男性视角的无脑大片，女性影人的作品依然匮乏。但是仍然有一个小而显著的趋势，表明女性正在撰写、执导和制作性元素更加露骨的影视节目。
“People are starting to realize that they can make money letting women be honest and forthright about their sexuality,” said Dana Calvo, a TV writer and producer currently developing a drama at Amazon called “The Good Girls Revolt.” “It’s just as crass and simple as that.”
“人们开始意识到，让女人诚实坦率地表达自己的性态度，可以帮他们赚到钱，”电视编剧兼制片人达纳·卡尔沃(Dana Calvo)说，“就是这么简单粗暴。”她目前正在为亚马逊制作剧情类节目《乖女孩的反叛》(The Good Girls Revolt)。
The Sundance Film Festival in January, dubbed “Sexy Sundance” by the press, was awash in graphic scenes from the female perspective.
今年1月的圣丹斯电影节(Sundance Film Festival)被记者们称为“性感圣丹斯”，参展作品中充斥着女性视角的露骨场景。
In “The Bronze,” Melissa Rauch — the “Big Bang Theory” actress who co-wrote, produced and starred in the comedy — plays a former gymnast who has sex by herself while watching a film of her own medal-winning uneven bars routine and sex with a fellow gymnastics coach featuring comically exaggerated swings, twists and upside-down splits.
喜剧《铜牌》(The Bronze)由《生活大爆炸》(Big Bang Theory)女星梅丽莎·劳奇(Melissa Rauch)联合编剧、制作并主演。在一个场景中，她扮演的前体操运动员，一边看自己赢得奖牌的高低杠表演视频一边自慰。在另一个场景中，她与一个体操教练同行发生性关系时，做出了滑稽夸张的摆动、旋转和倒立劈叉动作。
In “Sleeping With Other People,” written and directed by Leslye Headland, who also wrote the ribald “Bachelorette,” Jason Sudeikis instructs Alison Brie on the art of pleasuring herself, using an empty green tea bottle as a stand-in for lady parts.
《与他人同眠》(Sleeping With Other People)由低俗片《未婚女子》(Bachelorette)的编剧莱斯利·海德兰(Leslye Headland)自编自导。在片中，杰森·苏戴奇斯(Jason Sudeikis)指导爱丽森·布里(Alison Brie)如何让自己愉悦，他演示时用一个空的绿茶瓶子代表女性器官。
And, in the dark indie “I Smile Back,” written by Amy Koppelman and Paige Dylan, Sarah Silverman plays a sex-and-drug-and-vodka drenched suburban mother who masturbates with her daughter’s teddy bear as she lies on the floor next to the sleeping child.
题材阴暗的独立电影《我回以微笑》(I Smile Back)由艾米·科普曼(Amy Koppelman)和佩奇·迪伦(Paige Dylan)编剧，莎拉·西尔弗曼(Sarah Silverman)扮演一名沉迷于性、毒品和伏特加的郊区女性。剧中一个场景是她躺在地板上，用孩子的玩具熊自慰，身边就是熟睡的女儿。
There was also a panel at Sundance in which Mindy Kaling, creator and star of “The Mindy Project” on Fox, and Lena Dunham, creator and star of “Girls” on HBO, discussed being on the sexual and comic edge and running into what Dunham called “the hashtag Too Far thing.”
在圣丹斯电影节上，福克斯《敏迪烦事多》(The Mindy Project)的主创和主演敏迪·卡灵(Mindy Kaling)，还与HBO《都市女孩》(Girls)的主创和主演莉娜·邓纳姆(Lena Dunham)进行了小组讨论。她们交流了站在性和喜剧的交叉点的体验，以及撞上了邓纳姆所说的“#TooFar（#太过火了）这玩意儿”的感受。
Both women had much discussed episodes recently depicting sexual practices that, on Fox anyhow, had to be dealt with obliquely. “We couldn’t even get too close to mentioning it,” Kaling said, noting that she is in “more than constant interaction” with the Fox lawyer.
这两名女性就最近播出的一些描写性行为的桥段展开了大量讨论，那些场面在福克斯台可是要很隐晦地处理的。卡灵说，“谈话稍微涉及那方面一点都是不行的。”她还表示，自己与福克斯的律师进行了“大量沟通”。
On Comedy Central’s lusty “Broad City,” Ilana and Abbi took it even further. When Abbi hooks up with her attractive neighbor, he asks her to wear a male prosthesis and then gets upset when she inadvertently warps it in the dishwasher and replaces it with a cheaper model.
喜剧中心(Comedy Central)剧集《大城小妞》(Broad City)的情节相当闹腾，该剧中伊兰娜(Ilana)和艾比(Abbi)甚至走得更远。艾比勾搭上了她迷人的邻居，他让她戴上了男性器官假体，但她却无意间把它放入洗碗机里弄变了形，于是用一个比较便宜的型号来顶替。这让他感到很恼火。
In Kaling’s episode, called “It Slipped,” she chastises her boyfriend for trying something in bed, crying out “Danny, that doesn’t go there!” and later telling him, “My office only has one entrance.”
卡灵的电视剧有一集名为“滑动”(It Slipped)，其中她责骂在床上尝试花样的男友，先是大喊“丹尼，方向不对！”后来又告诉他，“我的办公室只有一个入口。”
The moderator asked Kaling what would be on her show if it were on cable.
主持人问卡灵，如果在有线电视上播出，她的剧里会有什么。
“Oh, man! I’m like a pervert,” Kaling replied with a smirk, “so, I think, for me, if I was on cable or some other platform, it would not be good for me right now.”
“天哪！我就像个变态，”卡灵得意地笑着说，“所以，我觉得对我来说，如果要出现在有线电视或其他平台上，现在还不是时候，不适合我。”
Whitney Cummings, the stand-up comedienne who joined with Michael Patrick King to create CBS’s bawdy hit, “2 Broke Girls,” told me that “dirty words coming out of pretty mouths seems to be riveting people, even though the characters on ‘Sex And The City’ were covering this territory 10 years ago.”
和迈克尔·帕特里克·金(Michael Patrick King)共同创作了露骨的热播剧《破产姐妹》(2 Broke Girls)的单口喜剧女演员惠特尼·卡明斯(Whitney Cummings)对我表示，“从长得好看的人嘴里说出来的脏话似乎很吸引人，尽管《欲望都市》里的角色10年前就步入了这一领域。”
She said, “When a guy writes a scene where a woman does a deviant sex act on camera, it’s objectifying. But when a woman writes it, it’s feminism. When girls write it for themselves, it’s extra taboo because it’s like, ‘Women have all these ideas, too! We thought men were making them do all this dirty stuff!’ It becomes raunchy all of a sudden when women like it. It’s in the zeitgeist because there’s a bunch of female writers and creators now, and, by a bunch, I mean, like, four.
她说，“如果在一场男人写的戏里，女人在镜头前有异常的性行为，那叫物化女性。但如果创作者是女的，就是女权主义了。如果女孩子们是为自己创作的，就是变本加厉的犯忌，因为那就像是在说‘女的也有这些想法！我们本以为是男性让她们做出这些不堪的事情的！’如果女性喜欢，它突然就变得淫荡了。这符合时代精神，因为现在有一群女性编剧和创作人员了，这个‘一群’是说，有四个呢。
“I don’t see things getting raunchier because I don’t think women having sex is raunchy. I think it’s healthy and normal. If a guy does it on TV, he’s a cool bro, a heartthrob. If a woman does it, she’s raunchy.”
“我不认为性因此变得更加下流，因为我不认为女性做爱是下流的。我认为那是健康的，正常的。如果男性在电视上表演做爱，他是个酷哥儿们，是风流公子。如果女人那么做，就成了下流了。”
Other women writers and directors agreed.
其他女性编剧和导演也同意。
“It’s not even that raunchy. It’s just something we haven’t seen until recently because, for forever, women’s sexuality was looked at from the male’s point of view, even if it was supposedly a woman’s story,” said Frankie Shaw, who wrote, directs and stars in “SMILF,” which won the Short Film Jury Award for U.S. Fiction at Sundance and is being turned into a TV series. “It feels like a shift, like we’re taking it into our own hands. I am allowed to say sex isn’t over until I have an orgasm.”
“根本没有那么下流。只是因为我们最近才看到，因为女性的性永远都是被从男性的视角来看待的，尽管按说这本应是女性自己的事，”弗朗姬·肖(Frankie Shaw)说。“感觉像是发生了转变，就像我们掌握了主动权。我现在可以说，性爱得等我有了高潮才算结束。” 肖是《微笑》(SMILE)的编剧和导演，并在片中担任主演。该片在圣丹斯电影节上赢得加了美国小说短片评委会奖。
Her film is about a single mother who tries to rekindle a connection with an old boyfriend. He’s excited until he realizes that she’s proposing to have sex in the same bed as her sleeping toddler.
她的电影讲述了一个单亲妈妈尝试与前男友再续前缘的故事。一开始他很兴奋，但接着他意识到，他们做爱的那张床上，还睡着她的那个刚学走路的孩子。
“While men react with shock and awe when their screen shows a woman giving herself a quick intimate wipe down prior to a date or when a woman with cellulite bares all, we know it’s not raunch. It’s not groundbreaking,” Shaw says. “It’s just our life — dirty, imperfect and real.”
“尽管当屏幕上的那个女人在约会前迅速地将隐私部位擦洗干净，或是一个女人袒露满是脂肪的肉体时，男的会表现出震惊和畏怯，但我们知道，这并不下流。这并非破天荒的事情，”肖说。“这就是我们的生活——肮脏、不完美、真实。”
Maggie Carey, the writer and director of the risque 2013 Aubrey Plaza teenage comedy, “The To Do List,” and a former improv comedienne who is married to the comedian Bill Hader, agreed. “I was not comfortable with the term ‘raunchy’ because it felt derogatory,” she said. “I prefer to call it frank.”
奥布瑞·普拉扎(Aubrey Plaza)在2013年参演的露骨青少年喜剧《性愿清单》(The To Do List)的编剧兼导演、嫁给了喜剧演员比尔·哈德尔(Bill Hader)的前即兴创作喜剧演员玛吉·凯莉(Maggie Carey)也这么认为。“我对‘下流’这个说法觉得不舒服，因为感觉像是在贬低，“她说。“我倾向于叫它坦率。”
The heroines in these stories are blunt about what turns them on and off.
这些故事里的女主人公对什么能让她们兴奋，什么会让她们兴致尽失都颇为坦率。
“Afternoon Delight” is a 2013 movie starring Kathryn Hahn and written and directed by Jill Soloway (the creator of Jeffrey Tambor’s “Transparent” on Amazon) about an affluent, bored Los Angeles woman who causes mayhem when she gives a homeless stripper/hooker a room. When Hahn and other mothers get together over red wine, one says she has masturbated for two decades to the Jodie Foster rape scene in “The Accused” and Hahn recalls a strange guy coming into her college dorm room and having sex with her, noting: “This is not a rape story. That’s what sex in college is. Nobody asks in college.”
《午后乐事》(Afternoon Delight)是2013年的一部影片，由凯瑟琳·哈恩(Kathryn Hahn)主演，吉尔· 索洛维(Jill Soloway)（杰弗里·坦伯尔[Jeffrey Tambor]参演的亚马逊剧集《透明家庭》[Transparent]的创作人员）担纲编剧和导演。该片讲述的是洛杉矶一个富裕、无聊的女人在给一个无家可归的脱衣舞女/妓女提供了一个房间后引发混乱的故事。当哈恩(Hahn)和其他母亲聚在一起喝红酒时，其中一人说自己20年来一直看着朱迪·福斯特(Jodie Foster)在《爆劫梨花》(The Accused)一片中被强奸的场景自慰，回想起大学时一个陌生男子来到宿舍并和自己发生了关系的哈恩提出：“这并不是一个关于强奸的故事。这就是大学里的性。大学里没人过问。”
In “Obvious Child,” which premiered at Sundance last year and improbably turned the topic of abortion into romantic comedy, Jenny Slate plays an aspiring stand-up comic who mocks her boyfriend’s hammering sex.
去年在圣丹斯上首映的《明摆着的孩子》(Obvious Child)出人意料地将堕胎这样的题材拍成了浪漫喜剧，珍妮·斯雷特(Jenny Slate)在片中饰演的人物立志成为单口喜剧演员，拿她的男朋友的床上表现开涮。
Apatow, who has collaborated with young comediennes like Dunham and Amy Schumer, is gratified that, by garnering $288 million at the box office, “Bridesmaids” created a market for “women telling stories where they’re 100 percent honest about their experience.”
阿帕陶和杜汉姆、艾米·舒默(Amy Schumer)等年轻喜剧人合作过，对收获2.88亿美元票房的《伴娘》十分满意，认为它开拓了一个“女性讲故事的市场，她们可以在其中绝对坦诚地说出自己的感受。”
Apatow is the producer and director of Schumer’s first movie, which will premiere as a work in progress at South by Southwest this month. “Trainwreck,” which Schumer wrote and stars in, is about a sexually promiscuous young woman who finds love with a sports doctor, played by Hader.
阿帕陶是舒默首部电影的制片人和导演，片子本月将在“西南偏南”(South by Southwest)大会上以未完成作品的形式首映。由舒默任编剧和主演的《火车出轨》(Trainwreck)讲了一个淫乱的年轻女人和一个运动专科医生相爱的故事，医生由哈德尔饰演。
“They’re comfortable showing the mistakes they make and sometimes those mistakes are in the sexual arena — ‘Here’s my terrible one-night stand,’ ” Apatow says. “But sexuality is just part of it. The most titillating part is making the choice not to censor themselves on the emotional honesty.
“她们不介意曝露自己所犯的错误，其中有些错误发生在性爱领域——‘跟你说一个我的一夜情糗事，’”阿帕陶说。“但性并非全部。最吸引人的地方在于，她们出于情感上的坦诚，选择不去删改自己。