Lacob has fantasized about owning a team since he was 9, when he walked into a Boys Club in New Bedford, Mass., his hometown, and saw his first parquet basketball floor. He graduated from the University of California, Irvine, as the first in his family to attend college and earned additional degrees at U.C.L.A. and Stanford. By then, his life’s blueprint was just about complete. He would use the first half to get rich, then devote the rest to acquiring and running a team. “The first day that I met Joe, in 1998, he told me that he wanted to buy the Warriors,” says Warren Thaler, a former Cleveland Cavaliers director who serves with Lacob on the board of Align Technology.
拥有一支球队是莱科布九岁时就幻想过的事，当时他在故乡马萨诸塞州新贝德福德走进一家男孩俱乐部，人生第一次看到拼花的篮球地板。他是家族的第一个大学生，从加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)毕业后，他在加州大学洛杉矶分校(UCLA)和斯坦福又拿了几个学位。在那时，他基本上已经完成了自己的人生蓝图。他将用前半生赚钱，然后买一支球队，用余生去打理它。“1998年我跟乔认识的第一天，他就跟我说想买下勇士队，”前克里夫兰骑士队总监、和莱科布同为艾利科技(Align Technology)董事的沃伦·塔勒(Warren Thaler)说道。
Once he had his investors in place, Lacob treated the Warriors like another of his fledgling companies in need of adept management. In 2011, he hired Bob Myers as an assistant general manager. He promoted him to general manager a year later. Myers, now 41, lettered in basketball at U.C.L.A. as a walk-on, studied law at Loyola Marymount in Los Angeles, then started a career as an agent, representing athletes. “The reason I’m sitting here now is because of that V.C. model,” he told me. “I had no track record. I had no past experience. If you only believed in past performance, you’re talking to someone else. I mean, I wouldn’t have hired me.” Last season, Myers was named the N.B.A.’s Executive of the Year.
投资人就位后，莱科布立刻就把勇士队当成了一个急需得到妥善管理的企业来看待，跟他投资的众多公司没有区别。2011年，他聘用鲍勃·麦尔斯为助理总经理。一年后又提拔他作了总经理。现年41岁的麦尔斯曾作为编外球员进入UCLA校队，在洛杉矶洛约拉马利蒙特大学(Loyola Marymount)学了法律，后来开始了一段运动员经纪人生涯。“我能坐在这里就是因为风险投资模式，”他对我说。“我没有相关经历。我没有经验。如果你只看过去的工作表现，那就不会找我了。就是说，我都不会雇我。”上个赛季，麦尔斯当选NBA年度最佳经理。
At Kleiner Perkins, Lacob was often forced to change entire management teams and restructure companies before he could make them profitable. He wasn’t daunted by the challenge of turning around the Warriors. “You make highly contentious decisions in venture capital all the time,” says Trae Vassallo, a former Kleiner Perkins partner who worked with Lacob. “But not everybody sees them.”
在凯鹏华盈，莱科布经常要被迫换掉整个管理团队，对公司进行重组，然后才能实现盈利。在勇士队的经营中，他不需要被扭亏为盈这样的挑战纠缠。“在做创投的时候，你总是要做一些非常有争议性的决定，”曾与莱科布共事的前凯鹏华盈合伙人特拉伊·瓦萨罗(Trae Vassallo)说道。“但是不见得所有人都能看到。”
In March 2012, Lacob took the microphone during a game at halftime to honor Chris Mullin, who played for Golden State from 1985 to 1997. From the moment he began speaking, Lacob was booed. It had nothing to do with Mullin. The previous week, the Warriors sent Monta Ellis, the team’s most popular player, to the Milwaukee Bucks in exchange for Andrew Bogut. With time, that would take its place among the most effective trades in basketball history. The Warriors did more than acquire Bogut, a seven-footer who had missed half the season with a broken ankle. Trading Ellis allowed Curry, the point guard, to look for his own shots instead of mainly facilitating Ellis’s. In truth, Lacob hadn’t wanted to trade Ellis. His basketball advisers, including West, persuaded him. “They made their case, especially Jerry,” Lacob says, “and I accepted it. They were right.”
2012年3月，莱科布在一场比赛的中场时间拿起了话筒，向1985到1997年间在勇士队效力的克里斯·穆林(Chris Mullin)致敬。从他开始说话那一刻起，观众开始嘘他。这跟穆林没有关系。之前的一周，勇士队把球队最具人气的球星蒙塔·埃利斯(Monta Ellis)送到了密尔沃基雄鹿，换来安德鲁·博古特(Andrew Bogut)。这笔交易在日后将成为篮球史上最有效的一个案例。勇士队不只是得到了博古特，一个因脚踝骨折缺阵半个赛季的七尺中锋。送走埃利斯让控球后卫库里可以去寻找投篮机会，而不是以辅佐埃利斯为主。事实上莱科布并不想交易埃利斯。是包括韦斯特在内的篮球顾问说服了他。“他们摆出了理由，尤其是杰里，”莱科布说。“我接受了。他们是对的。”
Lacob understood that the Warriors, who had a losing record, needed to be dismantled before they could be rebuilt. He often had to implement a similar strategy with struggling companies. But the fans had been hearing about long-range plans for decades and had little confidence in them. And now they no longer had Ellis. The booing continued for so long that the former Warrior Rick Barry had to beseech the crowd to allow the ceremony to continue. By then, Lacob was shaking. The humiliation was so public, so raw, that Lacob’s friends were moved to send messages of support. Many mention it now, four years later, as a rite of passage.
莱科布明白，勇士队这样一个屡战屡败的球队，需要先拆散然后再重建。他经常要对处境艰难的公司采取类似的策略。但是球迷们听人说这些长远规划已经有几十年了，他们对此缺乏信心。如今他们没了埃利斯。嘘声持续了很久，最后前勇士队球员里克·巴里(Rick Barry)不得不恳求大家让致敬仪式继续下去。此刻莱科布已经不知所措。莱科布从未遭遇如此公开而残酷的羞辱，他的朋友纷纷发短信表示对他的支持。四年后的今天，很多人说那一刻是他的一场成年礼。
That fall, the team had to decide whether to extend Curry’s contract. The guard had shown flashes of exceptional talent, but he kept injuring his ankles. The previous season, which was shortened by a labor dispute, he missed 40 of 66 games. “We had to make a decision in the margins, in the gray area,” Myers says. “He was hurt at the time — he’d just sprained his ankle again.” Lacob listened to both sides. Then he asked if anyone could recall an N.B.A. player whose career had ended because of ankle injuries. “Nobody could think of any,” Myers says. “And that kind of made the decision for us.”
那年秋天，球队要决定是否续签库里。这名后卫时不时会闪现出惊人的天赋，但是又不断伤到自己的脚踝。在之前因劳资纠纷而缩短的赛季中，66场比赛他错过了40场。“我们必须在边缘的、灰色的地带做出抉择，”麦尔斯说。“他当时有伤——刚刚又扭伤了脚踝。”莱科布倾听了正反两方的声音。而后他问大家，他们记忆里有没有哪个NBA球员是因脚踝伤而结束职业生涯的。“谁都想不起来有这种情况，”麦尔斯说。“这一点算是帮我们下了决心。”
What they did by offering Curry a four-year, $44 million extension, Lacob explained, was rely not on the future stability of Curry’s anatomy so much as the composition of his psyche: his determination to push through nagging discomfort to make himself great. “Now, if we were wrong, we’d just committed $44 million to a player who can’t play basketball,” Myers says. “So the risk was there.” Not only has Curry developed into the sport’s best player, but his paltry — in terms of N.B.A. superstardom — $11 million annual compensation gives the Warriors ample salary-cap room to surround him with other talent.
他们给了库里一份四年、4400万美元的续约合同，莱科布说此举并非指望将来库里的身体状况能稳定下来，他们更多的是看中他的心态：他一心要战胜那些纠缠着他的不适，让自己变得强大。“是这样，如果我们错了，我们就在一个不能打篮球的人身上压了4400万美元，”麦尔斯说道，“所以风险在那摆着。”如今库里成长为这项运动的最佳球员，而且每年1100万美元的微薄薪水——相对NBA超级球星的价码——让勇士队有了充裕的工资帽空间，可以为他配备其他的优秀球员。
In 2011, Lacob and Guber chose Mark Jackson, the former St. John’s and Knicks point guard, to be their team’s head coach. Jackson was an unusual hire; he played for seven N.B.A. teams and worked as a commentator, but he had never coached. In his second and third seasons, he led the Warriors to the playoffs. “We were at the zero-yard line when Mark showed up here,” Myers says. “And he got us to the playoffs, and we won a round and became respectable.” So when Lacob fired him in 2014, after a 51-31 season, and replaced him with Steve Kerr, the basketball world was shocked. But Lacob had decided that a different type of leadership was needed for the Warriors to make the leap from a playoff team to a championship team. Such noodling with success, replacing a leader with a limited strategic vision with another who is comfortable aiming higher, rarely happens in sports. But in venture capital it happens all the time.
2011年，莱科布和古柏选择前圣若望大学和尼克斯队控卫马克·杰克逊(Mark Jackson)担任球队主教练。这是个不寻常的决定；杰克逊先后为七支NBA球队效力，还做过比赛评论员，但是从来没当过教练。在他执教的第二和第三个赛季，他把勇士队带入季后赛。“马克来的时候，我们正站在零码线上，”麦尔斯说。“他把我们带到季后赛，我们赢了一轮，赢得了尊重。”因此当莱科布在2014年炒掉他，改用史蒂夫·科尔(Steve Kerr)的时候，篮球界一片哗然，当时球队刚打出单赛季51胜31负的成绩。但是莱科布认为，要实现从季后赛球队到总冠军球队的飞跃，需要换一种领导方式。撤下一个战略视野狭窄的领导者，换上一个敢于着眼更高目标的人，像这样拿成功冒险的案例，在体育界极少出现。然而在风投业这是家常便饭。
Lacob had known Kerr since the late ’90s. They had been part of a group that traveled to Scotland on golfing trips. Kerr won N.B.A. titles as a player, first with Jordan and the Bulls and later with the Spurs. He ran the Suns’ front office as their general manager. He had commentated on N.B.A. broadcasts. What he hadn’t done, as the man in charge or even as an assistant, was coach a basketball team. But Lacob had an intuition that Kerr would do better in the organization’s structure — in which department heads are expected to weigh in on matters outside their jurisdiction — than the more regimented Jackson.
莱科布在上世纪90年代末就认识科尔。两人参加过一个去苏格兰的高尔夫旅行团。科尔作为球员拿到了NBA总冠军，先是在乔丹的公牛队，而后是马刺队。他在太阳队做过总经理。他做过NBA赛事转播评论。然而他没有执教过任何一支篮球队，连助理教练都没做过。但这个球会的组织结构决定了各部门主管可以就他们职权范围之外的事情发表看法，相比更刻板的杰克逊，莱科布直觉科尔在这样的体制中会有更好的表现。
Kerr’s willingness to at least consider suggestions from almost any source may have saved the Warriors during last year’s championship series. They were behind Cleveland, 2-1, when Nick U’Ren — Kerr’s assistant, whose responsibilities include constructing the musical playlists used during practices and splicing highlight reels — happened to be watching a tape of the 2014 playoffs. Noticing how San Antonio defended LeBron James, he suggested that the Warriors replace Bogut in the lineup with Andre Iguodala, who is half a foot shorter but athletic enough to at least force James to work to get good shots. Kerr took the suggestion, and the Warriors didn’t lose another game. Kerr publicly gave U’Ren the credit.
科尔对各方面的建议来者不拒，起码会纳入他的考量，这一点可能挽救了去年总决赛中的勇士队。当时他们2比1落后于克里夫兰，科尔的助手尼克·乌伦(Nick U’Ren)——他负责的事情包括编选训练时播放的音乐，剪辑比赛录像精华——正好看到2014年季后赛的一盘录像带。他注意到圣安东尼奥防守勒布朗·詹姆斯的办法，于是建议勇士把先发阵容中的博古特换成安德烈·伊戈达拉(Andre Iguodala)，他的身高要矮一英尺，但是可以凭借身体素质对抗詹姆斯，至少让他不能轻松得分。科尔接受了这个建议，勇士队接下来取得全胜。科尔公开明确了乌伦的功劳。
“I’ve played for nine different organizations,” Shaun Livingston, a Warriors guard, told me, “and I’ve never seen anything like that. This wasn’t even an assistant coach; it was a video coordinator. And Steve Kerr listened to him, and he did it. All the bridges are open here. There’s an open forum of ideas. A good idea really can come from anywhere. And that kind of thinking has to start at the top.”
“我给九个球队打过球，”勇士队后卫肖恩·利文斯顿(Shaun Livingston)对我说，“从来没见过这样的。他连助理教练都不是；是个录像编辑。史蒂夫·科尔会听他的意见，而且这么做了。这里条条路都是通的。这是一个开放的意见论坛。好点子真的是可以来自任何地方的。这样的思维，必须得是从上层开始做起。”
But you know what’s a really good idea? Letting Curry shoot the ball 16 times from beyond the three-point line, as the Warriors did during a February game against Oklahoma City. The Warriors take more three-point shots than any other team, and they make a lot more of them — 20 percent more than the closest-ranking team, the Houston Rockets. In a sense, they’ve turned the standard way to run a basketball offense inside-out by looking to end a possession not with a layup but with an open jumper from back near midcourt. It’s a revolutionary strategy, but one that seems likely to work only if you have Curry to take the shot. And like so much else about Curry, that obscures the impact of Lacob and Guber’s innovations. Maybe they would have transformed the franchise without Curry, but it’s impossible to know.
但是什么叫好点子？让库里一场比赛在三分线外投篮16次。在二月对阵奥克拉荷马的一场比赛中，勇士队就是这么做的。这支球队投三分的次数比任何球队都多——比最接近的休斯顿火箭多出20%。从某种意义上，他们把发动篮球进攻的标准方式彻底反了过来，他们的目标不是寻求上篮机会，而是设法用半场附近的空挡跳投来结束一次控球。这是一种革命性的策略，但是似乎只有当投篮的人是库里时才可行。围绕库里的很多问题都是这样，这让人们看不到莱科布和古柏的创新发挥了多大作用。也许他们可以在没有库里的情况下让球会脱胎换骨，但现在那只能是纸上空谈了。
Oklahoma City was the Warriors’ sixth stop in nine days on a winter road trip that had strained the limits of continental travel, from Portland to Los Angeles to Miami, and a loss to one of the league’s best teams would hardly have been a disgrace. Curry wouldn’t let it happen. He made 12 of those three-pointers, scoring 47 points in all. And with four seconds left in overtime and the game tied at 118, he brought the ball past the half-court line and stopped to set himself just beyond the R in the Thunder logo that straddles midcourt. Then he swished a jump shot. The Warriors, who led for a total of 29 seconds out of 53 minutes of play, had won again.
奥克拉荷马城是勇士队为期九天的客场之旅的第六站，此行从波特兰出发，以洛杉矶为终点，将横跨大陆的旅途劳顿推向了极致，这个时候输给全联盟最好的球队之一，并不是什么不光彩的事。然而库里不能接受失败。那16投，他投中了12个，总共拿下47分。在加时赛剩下四秒的时候，比赛打到118分平局，他运球过了中线，在球场中央的“Thunder”标志的“R”字附近停了下来。接着他突然把球投了出去。全场53分钟只有29秒处于领先的勇士队，再一次取得胜利。
Even after winning the league’s M.V.P. award last season, Curry has improved in virtually every trackable metric. He is averaging more than 30 points a game while making 51 percent of his shots, including a preposterous 46 percent of three-pointers. Still, there’s no way to do statistical justice to those stretches on the court, sometimes a minute or two and sometimes an entire quarter, when Curry appears to have entered a freeze frame, running around while everyone else remains still.
尽管上赛季已经获得联盟最有价值球员称号，库里在几乎所有可跟踪记录的指标上仍然在提高。他的单场平均得分在30分以上，命中率51%，三分球命中率达到不可理喻的46%。然而任何数据统计都无法呈现球场上的那些瞬间，有时是一两分钟，有时是整整一节，库里就像是闯入了一个定格画面，全场的人都不动了，只有他跑来跑去。
I saw it happen in Oakland this season. The Warriors were behind Phoenix in the second quarter. Curry hit a casually spectacular fadeaway from the foul line that ended with him sitting on the court. Then he brought the ball downcourt at speed and abruptly flipped it to another player, who was unguarded, without looking his way, creating an easy jumper. Finally, with the crowd at full roar, Curry launched the ball from several steps beyond the three-point line, and its parabola toward the basket seemed to last forever. It was impossible to watch the ball and Curry at the same time, but out of the corner of my eye I saw Curry turn and begin to run back downcourt, his arms spread wide, before his shot had even reached the top of its trajectory. For me, the moment seemed to crystallize the entire Warriors season.
本赛季我在奥克兰就见到了这样的瞬间。勇士在第二节落后于菲尼克斯。在罚球线完成了一个精彩的后仰投篮后，库里摔坐在地上。接着他又持球高速推进到前场，突然看也不看就把球拨给另一个无人防守的队友，创造了一个轻松的投篮机会。最后，在观众的纵情欢呼中，库里在离三分线几步远的地方出手，篮球画出一道无比漫长的抛物线。想同时看着球和库里是很困难的，但我用余光看到，库里已经张开双臂转身往回跑，球在那一刻甚至还没飞到弧线最高点。对我来说，那一刻凝结了勇士队的整个赛季。
Lacob presents winning as an inevitable result of the way the team has been constructed. I couldn’t argue with one of the best records in N.B.A. history. Yet I also couldn’t shake the idea that the story could easily have gone a different direction. Since the start of the 2013-14 season, the Warriors have won 76 percent of their games. Playing without Curry, they’re 3-6. And if he were sidelined for the playoffs tomorrow, it seems unlikely that the Warriors would be favored to win the championship. As with Jordan and the Bulls, a strong case can be made that Curry, not the ownership group, provides the point of difference. “They did what every really good organization should do with their star,” the Bucks’ Lasry said. “They nurtured him. But they got lucky in that Steph became far and away the best player in the league.”
照着莱科布的说法，用这样的方式构建一支球队，赢球是必然的结果。面对NBA历史上的最佳战绩之一，我无从反驳。然而同时我也总是在想，这故事的情节完全有可能往另一个方向发展。从2013–14赛季到现在，勇士队赢了76%的比赛。在没有库里的情况下，他们3胜6负。如果明天他不能参加季后赛了，勇士队似乎不大可能赢得总冠军。就像乔丹之于公牛，有充分依据说明，差异点在库里，不在所有人团队。“他们用一个好球会该有的方式对待他们的球星，”雄鹿队的拉斯里说。“他们培育了他。但是史蒂夫能成为在联盟中一枝独秀的最佳球员，是他们的福气。”
Still, Curry’s mere presence wouldn’t have created the means to overhaul a franchise. It takes an extraordinary player to do it — but that isn’t all it takes. LeBron James still hasn’t won a championship for the Cavaliers; playing together, the perennial All-Stars Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook haven’t won in Oklahoma City. The decision to keep Curry, coupled with the good fortune that he remained healthy and grew into a transcendent player, gave Lacob and Guber’s structural innovations the chance to have their desired effect. But as Lacob sees it, Curry’s dominance on the court, though essential, is inextricable from everything else he’s done with the franchise over the last few years, from knocking down the office walls to the Ellis trade. “It’s not just Steph Curry,” he told me once. “It’s architecting a team, a style of play, the way they all play together. It’s all extremely thought through.”
然而，单纯有库里的存在并不能给一个球会带去变革。这样的变革需要有一名非凡的球员——但这只是其中一个因素。勒布朗·詹姆斯还没有给骑士队拿到一个总冠军；凯文·杜兰特(Kevin Durant)和拉塞尔·威斯布鲁克(Russell Westbrook)这两位全明星阵容的常客联手，也没有给奥克拉荷马城带来胜利。库里能保持身体没有伤病，并成长为一名卓越的球员，这样的好运气和留住库里的决策结合在一起，让莱科布和古柏的组织结构创新有了发挥效力的机会。但在莱科布看来，库里在球场上的统治地位固然必不可少，但和他在过去几年里的球会运作也是密不可分的，无论是推倒办公室的墙，还是交易埃利斯。“不仅仅是史蒂夫·库里，”他曾对我说。“这关乎一个团队的建设，一种打球风格，以及他们之间的配合。这些都是有过充分考量的。”
This confluence of good planning and luck reminded me of a conversation I had with Lacob over a glass of wine one evening at the Bridge Club. He confided that he figures he’s one of the 10 best blackjack players in the world. “I shouldn’t say this,” he added, “but I’ve won over $1 million at one sitting nine times.” As in gambling, there are no certain outcomes in sports, which is exactly what makes them worth watching. Whether you’re playing pickup basketball on a Tuesday morning or hoping to turn a substandard N.B.A. franchise into a champion, all you can do is try to increase your chances of getting the outcome you desire. It was easy to see that Lacob had a knack for doing just that. For everything he did, he had worked out a system.
良好的规划与运气的结合，让我想起某晚在桥俱乐部和莱科布喝红酒时的一段对话。他告诉我，他认为自己玩21点的水平在世界上可以排到前十。“我不应该跟你说这个，”他接着说，“在一个赌局里赢下一百万美元以上的经历，我有过九次。”和赌博一样的是，体育的结果是无从预知的，而这正是它们好看的地方。不管是在周二早上打业余比赛，还是希望把一个不合格的NBA球会变成冠军，你能做的只是增加得到你想要的结果的几率。可以很明显看出，莱科布在这方面是有自己的一套的。他为他所做的一切摸索出了一个体系。
As an undergraduate at Irvine, Lacob took a calculus class from Edward Thorp, whose 1962 book, “Beat the Dealer,” proved that a blackjack player could gain a slight edge on the house by counting cards. Thorp was banned by casinos, so he taught his students the system, backed them on trips to Las Vegas and shared in the rewards. Lacob was one of those students. When he goes to a casino now, his blackjack sessions aren’t certainties, but Lacob has far better odds of succeeding at them than anyone else at the table. His purchase of the Warriors, I realized, was the same way. He counted the cards and played the odds. And he won.
在加州大学欧文分校读本科的时候，莱科布选了爱德华·索普(Edward Thorp)的微积分课，此人在1962年出版的著作《击败庄家》(Beat the Dealer)中证明，一个21点玩家可以通过算牌给赢面带来小幅提升。索普是被赌场拉黑的人物，因此他把这个体系教给学生，出钱让他们去拉斯维加斯，大家分享最后的所得。莱科布就是其中一名学生。如今要去赌场，他在21点赌局上不能保证赢钱，但获胜几率一定会远高于同桌的其他人。我意识到，他买下勇士队也是这样。他算了牌，并根据概率行事。最终他赢了。