AMERICANS and Europeans stand out from the rest of the world for our sense of ourselves as individuals. We like to think of ourselves as unique, autonomous, self-motivated, self-made. As the anthropologist Clifford Geertz observed, this is a peculiar idea.
美国人和欧洲人因为我们的个人意识而显得与世界其他地方不同。我们喜欢将我们自己看作独特、自主、善于自我激励、自力更生的人。就像人类学家克利福德·格尔茨(Clifford Geertz)观察到的那样，这是一种独特的理念。
People in the rest of the world are more likely to understand themselves as interwoven with other people — as interdependent, not independent. In such social worlds, your goal is to fit in and adjust yourself to others, not to stand out. People imagine themselves as part of a larger whole — threads in a web, not lone horsemen on the frontier. In America, we say that the squeaky wheel gets the grease. In Japan, people say that the nail that stands up gets hammered down.
世界上其他地方的人们，更倾向于将自己理解成与其他人相互联系、相互依赖的人，而非相互独立。在这种社会世界中，人们的目标是融入，调整自己，适应别人，而不是出位。人们将自己想象成更大整体的一部分——网中的线，而不是边陲地带的孤独骑士。在美国，我们会说“吱吱响的轮子才上油”。而在日本，人们会说“锤敲露头钉”。
These are broad brush strokes, but the research demonstrating the differences is remarkably robust and it shows that they have far-reaching consequences. The social psychologist Richard E. Nisbett and his colleagues found that these different orientations toward independence and interdependence affected cognitive processing. For example, Americans are more likely to ignore the context, and Asians to attend to it. Show an image of a large fish swimming among other fish and seaweed fronds, and the Americans will remember the single central fish first. That’s what sticks in their minds. Japanese viewers will begin their recall with the background. They’ll also remember more about the seaweed and other objects in the scene.
这些都是笼统的说法，但一些研究很有说服力地展示了差异，这些研究还表明，这样的差异具有深远的影响。社会心理学家理查德·E·尼斯比特(Richard E. Nisbett)和同事发现，对独立及相互依赖的不同取向，对认知过程产生了影响。例如，美国人可能会忽略语境，而亚洲人则可能非常注意语境。看到一条在鱼群及海藻中游来游去的大鱼的图片，美国人首先会记住中间的那条大鱼。这种印象牢牢印在他们脑中。而日本人在回忆时，会从背景开始。他们对于海藻及这个场景中的其他物体，也有更多的记忆。
Another social psychologist, Hazel Rose Markus, asked people arriving at San Francisco International Airport to fill out a survey and offered them a handful of pens to use, for example four orange and one green; those of European descent more often chose the one pen that stood out, while the Asians chose the one more like the others.
另一名社会心理学家黑兹尔·罗斯·马库斯(Hazel Rose Markus)请到达旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)的乘客填写调查表，并为他们提供了一些笔，比如四支橙色的和一支绿色的；欧洲裔人士通常选择那支与众不同的笔，而亚裔则会选择与其他笔更相像的。
Dr. Markus and her colleagues found that these differences could affect health. Negative affect — feeling bad about yourself — has big, persistent consequences for your body if you are a Westerner. Those effects are less powerful if you are Japanese, possibly because the Japanese are more likely to attribute the feelings to their larger situation and not to blame themselves.
马库斯博士和她的同事发现，这些差异会影响健康。对于西方人来说，消极情绪——自我感觉不好——会对身体产生巨大而持久的影响。对于日本人来说，这种影响会小一些，这可能是因为日本人会将这种感觉归因于大环境，而不是责备自己。
There’s some truth to the modernization hypothesis — that as social worlds become wealthier, they also become more individualistic — but it does not explain the persistent interdependent style of Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong.
现代化假说——社会世界在变得越来越富裕的同时，也会变得更加个人主义——有一定的道理，但这无法解释日本、韩国及香港仍在持续的相互依赖的模式。
In May, the journal Science published a study, led by a young University of Virginia psychologist, Thomas Talhelm, that ascribed these different orientations to the social worlds created by wheat farming and rice farming. Rice is a finicky crop. Because rice paddies need standing water, they require complex irrigation systems that have to be built and drained each year. One farmer’s water use affects his neighbor’s yield. A community of rice farmers needs to work together in tightly integrated ways.
今年5月，《科学》(Science)杂志发表了一篇论文，这项由弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)年轻的心理学家托马斯·托尔赫姆(Thomas Talhelm)指导的研究认为，这种不同取向源于他们所在的社会世界——种植小麦或种植水稻。水稻是一种挑剔的农作物。因为稻田里需要保持有水，所以需要复杂的灌溉系统，每年都需要修筑和疏浚。一个农民的用水会影响到邻近稻田的产量。一个社区的稻农需要以高度整合的方式进行合作。
Not wheat farmers. Wheat needs only rainfall, not irrigation. To plant and harvest it takes half as much work as rice does, and substantially less coordination and cooperation. And historically, Europeans have been wheat farmers and Asians have grown rice.
麦农则不必如此。小麦只需要降雨，不需要灌溉。种植和收获小麦只需要水稻一半的工作量，所需要的协调与合作也要少很多。从历史上来看，欧洲人一直是麦农，亚洲人种的则是水稻。
The authors of the study in Science argue that over thousands of years, rice- and wheat-growing societies developed distinctive cultures: “You do not need to farm rice yourself to inherit rice culture.”
《科学》杂志上文章的作者主张，数千年来，种植水稻和小麦的社会分别发展出了独特的文化：“即使并未亲自种植水稻，才可以继承水稻文化。”
Their test case was China, where the Yangtze River divides northern wheat growers from southern rice growers. The researchers gave Han Chinese from these different regions a series of tasks. They asked, for example, which two of these three belonged together: a bus, a train and train tracks? More analytical, context-insensitive thinkers (the wheat growers) paired the bus and train, because they belong to the same abstract category. More holistic, context-sensitive thinkers (the rice growers) paired the train and train tracks, because they work together.
他们的测试案例是中国。长江把中国分成了北方的小麦种植区和南方的水稻种植区。研究人员为来自这两个不同地区的汉族人安排了一系列任务。例如，他们会问，以下三者中哪两个属于一类：公共汽车、火车和铁轨。更善于分析、对语境比较不敏感的人（小麦种植者）选择了公共汽车和火车，因为它们属于同一个抽象类别。而更有全局观念的、对语境比较敏感的人（水稻种植者）却选择了火车和铁轨，因为这两种东西是配合运行的。
Asked to draw their social networks, wheat-region subjects drew themselves larger than they drew their friends; subjects from rice-growing regions drew their friends larger than themselves. Asked to describe how they’d behave if a friend caused them to lose money in a business, subjects from the rice region punished their friends less than subjects from the wheat region did. Those in the wheat provinces held more patents; those in the rice provinces had a lower rate of divorce.
当被要求描绘各自的社交网络时，来自小麦种植区的人把他们自己画得比朋友大；而来自水稻种植区的人，则把朋友画得比自己大。当被问到如果朋友让自己在生意中赔了钱，他们会怎么办时，来自水稻种植区的研究对象对朋友采取的惩罚，要轻于小麦种植区的人对朋友采取的惩罚。小麦种植区的人拥有更多专利，来自水稻种植省份的人离婚率则较低。
I write this from Silicon Valley, where there is little rice. The local wisdom is that all you need is a garage, a good idea and energy, and you can found a company that will change the world. The bold visions presented by entrepreneurs are breathtaking in their optimism, but they hold little space for elders, for longstanding institutions, and for the deep roots of community and interconnection.
我这篇文章是在硅谷写的，这里水稻不多。当地的观点是，你只需要一个车库、一个好的想法和精力，就能创立一家改变世界的公司。这些创业者提出的大胆愿景都十分乐观，因而令人震惊，但这些愿景并没有给长者、惯有的习俗，以及社区的深远渊源和相互联结保留多少空间。