Trump realized that golf was his entree if he wanted to pal around with Bill Clinton, whom he considered a kindred spirit in some ways — a great man who attracted jealous haters. “Bill is kind of Trump with a dictionary,” one author who has written about New York real estate says. Trump had been obsequious in trying to lure Ronald and Nancy Reagan to his business empire, and tried just as hard with the Clintons. He happened to have his own country club with a golf course in Westchester, which he bought out of foreclosure in the late 1990s. He closed the club in 1999 to redevelop it from top to bottom and reopened it as Trump National Golf Club in 2002. It was six miles from the Clintons’ house, and Trump could play with him, ingratiating himself further by hanging photos of Bill on the wall. As of June, Bill still had a locker at Trump’s golf club.
特朗普意识到，如果他想跟比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)交朋友，高尔夫是一块敲门砖。他认为克林顿在某些方面跟自己很相似，都是遭人嫉恨的了不起的人。“比尔算是有词汇量的特朗普，”一位曾写过纽约地产相关文章的撰稿人说。特朗普曾讨好拉拢罗纳德和南希·里根(Ronald and Nancy Reagan)加入自己的商业帝国，在拉拢克林顿夫妇方面，他也同样努力。他碰巧在韦斯特切斯特有自己的乡村俱乐部，里面有个高尔夫球场，那是他在90年代末买的一处止赎物业。1999年，他关闭该俱乐部进行彻底整修，2002年重新开放，改为特朗普全国高尔夫俱乐部(Trump National Golf Club)。它距克林顿家六英里远，特朗普可以跟他一起打球，为了进一步讨好他，还在墙上挂上他的照片。直到今年6月，比尔依然在特朗普的高尔夫俱乐部有自己的储物柜。
Trump once told me that he rebuilt the club, in part, because he knew Bill Clinton would need a place to play. As Don Van Natta Jr., an ESPN senior writer, wrote in his book about presidents and golf, “First Off the Tee,” Trump enjoyed playing with the ex-president. “He’s got a lot of golf talent, but he really likes those mulligans,” Trump told Van Natta. “If he misses a shot, he wants to take another crack at it. It’s like life.”
特朗普曾对我说，他重建那个俱乐部的部分原因是，他知道比尔·克林顿会需要一个打球的地方。就像ESPN资深撰稿人小唐·范纳塔(Don Van Natta Jr.)在关于总统和高尔夫的书《第一杆》(First Off the Tee)中写的，特朗普喜欢与这位前总统打球。“他打高尔夫很有天分，不过他真的喜欢加击，”特朗普对范纳塔说，“一次没打好，他会想再来一次。这就像生活。”
Trump greased the wheels of his relationship with the ex-president and the senator, giving the Clinton Foundation a $100,000 gift from his own foundation. According to “Trump Revealed,” by Michael Kranish and Marc Fisher, Trump donated to Hillary’s Senate war chest six times between 2002 and 2009, for a total of $4,700, and between 1999 and 2012, he switched his registration among the Republican, Democratic and Independence parties seven times.
特朗普用钱拉近与这对前总统和参议员夫妇的关系，从自己的基金会拨款10万美元，作为礼物送给克林顿基金会。据迈克尔·克拉尼什(Michael Kranish)和马克·费希尔(Marc Fisher)的《真实的特朗普》(Trump Revealed)一书称，从2002年至2009年，特朗普六次为希拉里竞选参议员捐款，总计4700美元。从1999年至2012年，他辗转于共和党、民主党和独立党派之间，七次改换门庭。
The friendship, on both sides, was a transaction. Not personal, as they say in the “The Godfather” — just business. Trump’s life in New York was all about promoting the brand and making money for the family business. It was the same for the Clintons. A former Clinton White House official puts it more bluntly: “This was a classic Clinton go-where-the-money-is move.”
这段友谊对双方来说都是交易。就像《教父》(The Godfather)中说的，不是针对个人，只是生意。特朗普在纽约的生活就是推广自己的品牌，为家族公司赚钱。对克林顿夫妇来说，也是如此。曾在克林顿政府任职的一名官员说得更直白：“这是克林顿跟着钱走的典型做法。”
“They all played the same game in the same town with the same thing in mind,” says Bernard Kerik, the former New York City police commissioner, who was invited to Trump’s third wedding and served prison time for tax fraud and other felony charges. “Better your relationships and build the business. It’s all about money and getting ahead and hedging your bets and playing the angles.”
“他们都在同一个城市，抱着同样的想法，玩着同样的游戏，”伯纳德·克里克(Bernard Kerik)说。这位因税务欺诈和其他重罪入狱的前纽约市警察局长曾受邀参加特朗普的第三次婚礼。“搞好关系，做好生意。都是为了钱，为了出人头地，两头下注，搞阴谋诡计。”
Trump wasn’t on the dinner-party circuit. He lived in a narrow alternate universe called Trumpworld, and his favorite way to spend the evening was ordering a steak or cheeseburger (well done) from Fresco by Scotto, eating quickly and watching a sporting event on TV. “Trumpworld is a world he weaves for his own needs and desires, depending on what they are and when they are,” says Louise Sunshine, a former Trump Organization vice president, noting that Clintonworld is much broader and more global.
特朗普不喜欢参加晚宴活动。他生活在一个名叫特朗普世界(Trumpworld)的狭小平行宇宙里，他最喜欢的晚间活动是，点一份Fresco by Scotto餐厅的牛排或奶酪汉堡（十成熟），匆匆吃完，观看电视上的体育比赛。“特朗普世界是他为满足自己的需要和欲望构建的，随他的喜好变化，”特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的前副总裁路易丝·森夏恩(Louise Sunshine)说。她指出，“克林顿世界”要更宽阔、更国际化。
Though the Clintons might show up at some events and galas and friends’ birthday parties, they were never really around enough to become part of the society dinner-party circuit, either. When I asked Trump last summer to describe his relationship with the Clintons, he was neutral: “As a businessman, you have to get along with all politicians,” he said. “I wouldn’t say it was a close relationship.”
虽然克林顿夫妇也会出席一些活动、庆典和朋友的生日派对，但他们从来都不够活跃，也不属于社交晚宴群体。今年夏天，我让特朗普描述一下他与克林顿夫妇的关系，他不动声色地说：“作为生意人，我必须和所有的政治人士搞好关系，”他说，“我不认为我们的关系很亲密。”
Hillary presents the trip to Trump’s wedding as a lark. “The dates worked,” a friend says. But some of her aides expressed surprise that she was going to such a gaudy affair; they believed Hillary rearranged her schedule because she thought Trump was a more important donor than he was.
希拉里称，出席特朗普的婚礼只是为了玩乐。“约会奏效了，”一位朋友说。不过，希拉里的一些助手对她打算参加这样一场俗气的活动表示惊讶。他们认为，希拉里调整了自己的日程去参加婚礼，是因为她高估了特朗普作为捐款人的重要程度。
The senator and former president beamed in pictures, mingling with the starry crowd, which included Heidi Klum, Barbara Walters, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sean Combs, Usher, Steve Wynn, Derek Jeter, Don King, Simon Cowell, Gayle King, Matt Lauer and Katie Couric, who got in trouble for her enterprising move of bringing a purse-cam. Paul Anka, Billy Joel, Elton John and Tony Bennett all performed.
参议员和前总统夫妇在照片中笑容满面，和明星云集的来宾融为一体，其中有海蒂·克鲁姆(Heidi Klum)、芭芭拉·沃尔特斯(Barbara Walters)、阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)、肖恩·库姆斯(Sean Combs)、亚瑟小子(Usher)、史蒂夫·韦恩(Steve Wynn)、德瑞克·基特(Derek Jeter)、唐·金(Don King)、西蒙·考埃尔(Simon Cowell)、盖尔·金(Gayle King)、马特·劳尔(Matt Lauer)，以及凯蒂·库里克(Katie Couric)——最后这位因携带隐形摄像机的妄举而陷入麻烦。保罗·安卡(Paul Anka)、比利·乔尔(Billy Joel)、艾尔顿·约翰(Elton John)以及托尼·贝内特(Tony Bennett)都在婚礼上进行了表演。
André Leon Talley attended with Anna Wintour because the bride was going to be featured on the cover of Vogue, where he was then American editor at large. He had flown to Paris to shop with Melania for the dress — she chose a John Galliano for Dior strapless gown worth $230,000 and a Vera Wang cocktail dress to change into later — and he was “on duty” at the wedding and the reception paying attention to the “birthday cake of a dress” when Melania “was walking around or dancing.” He calls Melania “the most silky, well moisturized, meticulously groomed woman” he has ever known, adding that “dehydrated skin is so unattractive.”
安德烈·莱昂·塔利(André Leon Talley)和安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)一起出席了婚礼，因为新娘即将登上《Vogue》的封面，而塔利当时是该杂志的美国特约编辑。他曾陪梅拉尼娅飞到巴黎买婚纱——她选了约翰·加利亚诺(John Galliano)为迪奥(Dior)设计的一件售价23万美元的无肩带婚纱和一件供她在随后的鸡尾酒会上穿的Vera Wang鸡尾酒裙——在婚礼和招待宴上，他要“负责”在梅拉尼娅四处走动或跳舞时，留意那件“生日蛋糕般的裙子”。他说梅拉尼娅是他见过的“最柔软光滑、最水润饱满、打扮得最精致的女人”，还说“缺水的皮肤很不好看”。
Trump was a reality-show star now, starting his third hit season of “The Apprentice” on NBC. Just as his taste in his apartment at Trump Tower was “like Louis XIV dropped acid,” as Timothy O’Brien, author of “TrumpNation,” describes it, so was his third wedding straight-up Versailles. “This was a man building a ballroom for his trophy wife,” Talley said. “It was Baroque, the way he loves it. The marble was flown in from Italy, and the ceiling was like a palace, all gold, painted by artisans flown in from France. He had a full-on live symphony orchestra.”
特朗普当时是真人秀明星，NBC开始热播他参与的《学徒》(The Apprentice)第三季。就像《特朗普国》(TrumpNation)的作者蒂姆·奥布莱恩(Tim O'Brien)描述的那样，他的特朗普大厦公寓的品味就像“嗑了药的路易十四(Louis XIV)”，他的第三次婚礼也完全是凡尔赛宫风格的。“这个男人为自己的花瓶妻子建了一个舞厅，”塔利说，“采用的是他最喜欢的巴洛克风格。大理石是从意大利空运来的，天花板就像宫殿，金碧辉煌，是从法国飞来的工匠刷的。他还请了一个完整的交响乐团进行现场演奏。”
David Patrick Columbia, the society editor, asserts that the Clintons were another accouterment: “Donald liked the fact that the Clintons were there because it was just another affirmation of who he had become in his life, a successful person. That’s what matters to him.”
网站编辑戴维·帕特里克·哥伦比亚(David Patrick Columbia)认为，克林顿夫妇是他的另一件装饰品：“唐纳德很高兴克林顿夫妇能出席他的婚礼，因为那也是在证明，他是一名成功人士。对他来说，重要的是这一点。”