Underneath the stands in Oracle Arena, off a corridor that connects the Warriors’ clubhouse to the court, is a modest-size room where Cohan, when he was owner, entertained family and friends. After taking control, Lacob renamed it the Bridge Club and opened it to the team’s minority shareholders and their guests. They congregate there before each game, filling plates with carved roast beef and elaborate canapés. There is an open bar and, for those who prefer fine wine, unencumbered access to it from automated, climate-controlled dispensers.
在甲骨文体育馆看台的下方，勇士队会所和球场之间的一条通道边，有一个不大的房间，是科恩掌管球队时款待家人和朋友的地方。莱科布接手后把那里改成了桥俱乐部(Bridge Club)，开放给球队少数股东和他们的宾客使用。每场比赛开始前，他们在那里聚会，享用烤牛肉片和精致的开胃小菜。里面有一座免费酒吧，配备了控温控湿的自动分酒机，让嗜酒之徒可以开怀畅饮。
One evening this season, Lacob arrived late after fighting traffic from Menlo Park. He asked politely for a turkey burger, then found a seat at a high-top table. Between bites, he greeted a steady flow of friends and colleagues, most of whom are big names in Silicon Valley. John Walecka of Redpoint Ventures — whose current investments include companies called Moogsoft, Quantifind, Datameer and Qihoo 360 Technology — walked past. So did Mark Stevens, who was a partner at Sequoia Capital when the firm helped finance Google, PayPal and LinkedIn.
本赛季的一个傍晚，从门洛帕克出发的莱科布因为堵车来晚了。他礼貌地要了一个火鸡汉堡，然后找了一张高脚桌坐下。他一边咬着汉堡，一边时不时跟上前的朋友和同事打招呼，里面多数是硅谷响当当的人物。红点投资公司(Redpoint Ventures)的约翰·瓦尔勒卡(John Walecka)从身边经过，此人目前投资的公司包括Moogsoft、Quantifind、Datameer和奇虎360.还有马克·史蒂文斯(Mark Stevens)，红杉资本(Sequoia Capital)的合伙人，他的公司参与了Google、贝宝(PayPal)和领英(LinkedIn)的投资。
The Bridge Club has become one of the best venues for venture-capital networking in the Bay Area. It’s a perk for the minority owners, but it serves a purpose for Lacob. Before and after each game, he’s accessible to any investors who want his ear. “It’s the atmosphere of knowing you have a voice — knowing you’re part of this,” he explained. “One thing I didn’t like when I owned part of the Celtics — was I really heard? I don’t know. I wanted to make sure that when I did this, everybody got heard.”
桥俱乐部成了湾区最好的创投人脉汇聚地。它是给少数股东的一个甜头，但莱科布也有自己的考虑。每场比赛前后，他可以听取任何一位投资人的意见。“这个环境会让你意识到，你是有发言权的——你是这里的一份子，”他解释说。“在当凯尔特人队的股东的时候，有件事情让我不爽——有人在听我说吗？我不知道。当时我就想，如果我来做这件事，我希望能听到每一个人的声音。”
The N.B.A. demands that each franchise confer one owner, regardless of stake size, with nearly dictatorial power. Lacob wields his softly, just as he typically sits in the back of corporate board meetings without saying much, absorbing information, then guiding the discussion toward a decision. “I’m a professional listener,” he told me. “There’s a lot of smart people in the world, you know. I’m not the smartest. I’m just an integrator. The N.B.A. isn’t like the outside world. I can do whatever I want. But you don’t treat people that way.”
NBA要求每个球会推举一位所有人，赋予他近乎独裁的权力，而此人占股多少无关紧要。莱科布对这种权力的使用是很柔和的，这跟他平常在公司董事会里的举止一样，一声不吭地坐在后面，吸取着信息，然后把讨论引向一个决策。“我是一个职业倾听者，”他对我说。“要知道这世上有很多聪明人。我不是最聪明的。我只是负责撮合的人。NBA是另一个世界。我是可以为所欲为的。但是那样对待他人是不对的。”
Even teams in small markets cost hundreds of millions of dollars these days. Unless you’re Steve Ballmer, the former Microsoft chief who spent $2 billion on the Los Angeles Clippers without the help of outside investors, most potential owners don’t have the wherewithal, or the gumption, to finance a purchase themselves. But rather than money without strings attached — investors who would have little involvement beyond writing checks — Lacob and Guber purposefully sought out entrepreneurs and businessmen with attributes and access that complemented their own. “Everyone he’s partnered with has a strategic reason to be there,” says Dennis Mannion, C.E.O. of the Detroit Pistons, who has held executive positions with teams in all four major American sports leagues. “You have this phenomenal bullpen of talent.”
如今市场最小的球会都价值几亿美元。除非你是前微软首席执行官史蒂夫·鲍尔默(Steve Ballmer)，可以花20亿美元买下洛杉矶快船，不需要外部投资人的帮助，绝大多数有意向的买家，在财力或者决心上都不足以做到自筹资金收购球队。然而莱科布和古柏并没有去要无附加条件的钱——也就是投资人只管开支票，极少参与具体事务——他们专门去物色了在属性和资源上跟他们形成互补的企业家和商人。“他找的每一个合伙人都是有战略理由的，”底特律活塞队首席执行官丹尼斯·曼尼恩(Dennis Mannion)说，他在许多球队担任高管，囊括了全美四大职业体育联盟。“这样一来你就有了十分惊人的一个人才库。”
So after the shareholder Dennis Wong, the managing director of SPI Holdings, advised Lacob on the real estate purchase for the new arena, Walecka helped with the financing. When I spoke with Swinmurn, he reeled off rapid-fire opinions on the design of the Warriors’ branded attire, the type of food sold at the concession stands and other disparate topics. Occasionally, minority partners can even influence what happens on the court. John Burbank of Passport Capital, who uses a deep knowledge of mathematics in his own investments, contributes detailed memos applying complex metrics to potential acquisitions. “I don’t know if any of it has 180ed us on a player,” Bob Myers, the Warriors’ general manager, told me, “but it has certainly moved us in a direction, one way or another. And he’s done it enough that it’s just the course of things now. It’s part of the process.”
所以在球队股东、SPI控股公司总经理丹尼斯·黄(Dennis Wong)就新球馆的物业收购向莱科布提了建议后，瓦尔勒卡参与了融资。在和斯威姆的交谈中，他滔滔不绝地谈论着勇士队品牌服装的设计，在球馆特许经营商铺里该卖什么类型的食物，以及其他东拉西扯的话题。少数股东的影响力有时甚至能触及到球场。护照资本(Passport Capital)的约翰·博尔班克(John Burbank)将高深的数学知识用在里自己的投资中，他的贡献是就有签约意向的球员进行复杂的计算，给出详尽的备忘录。“印象里我们从未因此对某个球员的看法产生一百八十度的转变，”勇士队总经理鲍勃·麦尔斯(Bob Myers)对我说，“但是它肯定会以某种方式给我们指出一个方向。他在这方面做了很多，以至于现在这就是一个固定步骤了。整个流程的一部分。”
Small-percentage shareholders have always existed in sports, but they’ve typically been local doctors or car dealers who’ve thrown in maybe a few hundred thousand dollars. They get a trip to spring training or a playoff game, a handshake at the Christmas party, a nice profit when they sell their shares, and not much else. “Nothing is more limited than being a limited partner of George Steinbrenner’s” is a quip that is most frequently attributed to the former Yankees investor John McMullen.
小股东在体育界一直是存在的，但是通常都是本地的医生或汽车销售商，可能也就是投了几十万美元。他们将得到一次春训探班的机会，或是一场季后赛，圣诞节聚会上握一次手，出售股份时可以不错的获利，除此之外也就没什么了。有句通常被认为出自前洋基队(Yankees)投资人约翰·麦克穆伦(John McMullen)之口的俏皮话说，“世上没有比乔治·史坦布瑞纳(George Steinbrenner)的有限合伙人更有限的东西了。”
But sports isn’t a small industry anymore. Playing the games and charging people to see them now constitutes only a fraction of the business. Franchises run gourmet restaurants and concert venues these days, and entire streets of retail outlets. They service fans in distant cities through audio and video streaming and proprietary content. Those owners who want to personally dictate everything “down to the color of the underwear,” as Stevens puts it, can find themselves at a competitive disadvantage. “It’s very hard when someone has had great success in another business — the fish-delivery business, the box-cutting business,” Guber says. “And then you come into this because ‘I want to buy a sports team, and I know how to run a business.’ That just isn’t a formula for great success in today’s world.”
但体育已经不再是小产业。举办比赛并让人付钱来观看，已经只是这个产业的一小部分。如今的球会要经营高档餐厅和音乐演出场所，有整条街的零售店。它们向住在远方城市的球迷提供视音频流媒体和专有内容。这些想控制“具体到内衣颜色”的一切细节的所有人，会在竞争上处于劣势。“一个人做别的生意——比如送鱼的、做纸箱的——做成功了，”古柏说。“然后你来做这个，因为‘我想买一支球队，我知道怎么经营一个企业’，这是很困难的。在如今这个世界想获得成功，靠这样的方式是行不通的。”
Lacob’s experience in venture capital, building a diverse portfolio of businesses, prepared him well for the peculiarities of owning a franchise, which perhaps explained why spending time in the Warriors’ front office often felt like hanging out at a software company. Soon after buying the team, Lacob supervised the removal of the walls inside its headquarters, which sit atop a parking garage in downtown Oakland. The various departments now share the same open-plan room; when I visited, I kept expecting to see a kegerator or some hoverboards. “You walk through there now, and it’s young, and there’s excitement,” said Gib Arnold, a former University of Hawaii head coach, who spent several days observing the franchise last year. “It’s Google in the N.B.A.”
莱科布在风险投资和形成多元化投资组合上的经验，给他经营球会这样一个特殊的产业做好了准备，恐怕这也是为什么身在勇士队的管理部门办公室里，经常会以为这是在一家软件公司。在买下球队后不久，位于奥克兰市中心一座停车场顶层的球队总部在莱科布授意下拆掉了办公室内的墙。各部门现在共享同一个开放式空间；登门拜访期间，我总是觉得会见到扎啤机或者悬浮滑板之类的东西。“现在走在里面会觉得年轻，有活力，”前夏威夷大学校队主教练杰布·阿诺德(Gib Arnold)说，去年他花了几天时间考察这个球会。“它是NBA的谷歌。”
In sports, unlike other businesses, companies have two bottom lines. Their owners want to win, of course, but they also want to make money, and the two are linked more loosely than you might think. You can make a lot of money with a bad team, as the N.F.L.’s Washington Redskins have done since 1999, when they were bought by Daniel Snyder. He has been a terrible owner, winning just 43 percent of his games, burning through seven head coaches, never reaching the Super Bowl and stubbornly refusing to change the team’s polarizing name. Yet if you judge him by the standards of any other business, he has been exemplary. The Redskins are the third-highest-grossing team in the N.F.L.; Snyder’s $800 million investment has more than tripled. If the team had public stockholders, they would be giving him a party.
和其他产业不同的是，体育企业会有两个头等大事。它们的老板想要赢球，这是自然，但同时他们也想要赚钱，两者之间的关联，并不像你想的那么紧密。你可以用一支烂队赚到很多钱，NFL的华盛顿红皮队自1999年被丹尼尔·斯奈德(Daniel Snyder)买下至今，一直是这么做的。斯奈德是个可怕的老板，球队胜率只有43%，消耗了七任主教练，从未打入超级碗，顽固拒绝改变引起剧烈争议的球队名。然而，如果你以其他行业的标准来看，他可以说是个楷模。红皮队的收入在NFL排第三；斯奈德的八亿美元投资已经翻了两番以上。如果球队有公众持股人，他们应该给他开个大趴才对。
Competitive success is more elusive. Teams that win a sequence of titles, or even come close, need superior talent. That’s especially true in basketball, where an extraordinary player — a Bill Russell, a Magic Johnson or a Michael Jordan — is one of only 10 on the court at any time. Put two or more together, uniting Kareem Abdul-Jabbar with Johnson or Jordan with Scottie Pippen, and you can create what in sports is hyperbolically called a dynasty.
竞赛上的成功就比较难把握了。球队要想赢下一连串冠军，甚或只是接近这个目标，都需要顶尖的人才。这在篮球中尤其，一个非凡的球员——一个比尔·拉塞尔(Bill Russell)，一个魔术师约翰逊，一个迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)——放到球场上也只是10人中的一个人，任何时候都是如此。把两个或更多这样的人放到一起，让卡里姆·阿卜杜勒-贾巴尔和约翰逊、乔丹和斯科蒂·皮蓬(Scottie Pippen)联手，然后你就可以创造出被体育界夸张地称为“王朝”的东西。
How much this ever has to do with the owner of the team is questionable. The Chicago Bulls amassed six N.B.A. titles with Jordan. But Jerry Reinsdorf, who bought the franchise in 1985, hasn’t won since the last of those titles, in 1998. (He also has owned baseball’s Chicago White Sox since 1981. The White Sox won the World Series in 2005 but otherwise have performed unmemorably.) Whatever magic Reinsdorf used to create the Bulls dynasty in the 1990s presumably remains at his disposal, yet the team has cracked .500 in just seven of the 17 seasons since Jordan departed. The determining factor there seems easy to identify.
这一切跟一个球队老板有多大关系，还是值得商榷的。芝加哥公牛队在乔丹时代拿到六个NBA总冠军。但是1985年买下球会的杰瑞·莱因斯多夫(Jerry Reinsdorf)，自1998年的最后一个冠军后就再也没拿到冠军（他还从1981年开始拥有棒球联盟的芝加哥白袜队。白袜在2005年获得“世界大赛”奖杯，但此后一直寂寂无闻）。照理说，当初用来缔造1990年代公牛王朝的魔力，现在应该还在莱因斯多夫手中才对，然而球队在乔丹离队后的17个赛季里只有七个赛季胜率过半。不难看出谁是真正的决定性因素。
This isn’t to say that owners have no impact. They choose how to spend their money — and how much of it to spend. They determine the goals of a franchise and how it will go about attaining them. But their attempts to directly influence the sports side of their operations have usually ended badly. “These people have been wildly successful in all their endeavors,” says Jerry West, the N.B.A. Hall of Famer who spent 20 years as the general manager of the Los Angeles Lakers. “But being involved in a sports team is so much different than anything they’ve done in their lives.”
倒不是说球队老板无关紧要。他们会决定如何花他们的前——以及花多少。他们决定一个球会的目标，以及如何实现这个目标。然而当他们在球队的运营中企图直接影响体育这一面的时候，结果往往不会好。“这些人在他们自己的事业里非常的成功，”NBA名人堂人物、曾任洛杉矶湖人队总经理20年的杰里·韦斯特(Jerry West)说。“但是参与一支体育运动队的事务，跟他们在以前做的所有事都不一样。”
In Los Angeles, West worked for Jerry Buss, arguably the most successful owner in modern sports history. Buss presided over a franchise that reached the N.B.A. finals 16 times in his 33 seasons. He also invented or perfected club seating, luxury boxes and the glitzy showmanship that now seems an integral part of sporting events. “Jerry Buss was an innovator who thought basketball should have the cachet of a Broadway show,” West told me. “The fun! The excitement! But what made that possible? It was winning the way we won. Magic Johnson played the game with a joy that everyone could see. And he played with maybe the greatest player ever in Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. And he had James Worthy. We had seven players you could put on an All-Star team. And Jerry Buss had nothing to do with that.”
韦斯特在洛杉矶的老板杰里·巴斯(Jerry Buss)，堪称现代体育史上最成功的所有人。巴斯掌管球会33个赛季，16次打入NBA总决赛。他还发明或完善了会所席位、豪华包厢和让人眼花缭乱的作秀，如今这些已经是体育赛事的一个固有组成部分。“杰里·巴斯是一个革新家，他认为篮球应该有百老汇演出的排场，”韦斯特对我说。“好玩！刺激！但是要怎样实现？要用我们的方式赢球。魔术师约翰逊打球时的快乐是有目共睹的。他跟巅峰时期的卡里姆·阿卜杜勒-贾巴尔打球。他还有詹姆斯·沃西(James Worthy)。我们有七个可以进入全明星阵容的球员。这些跟杰里·巴斯毫无关系。”
As West describes it, Buss regularly needed to be talked out of personnel moves that would have destroyed his team. “You don’t know some of the things that he wanted to do,” West said. He described one potential trade that Buss agreed to make: Worthy, the future Hall of Famer, to Dallas for Mark Aguirre and Roy Tarpley, who each had a reputation for being easily distracted. West found that idea so objectionable that he vowed to quit if Buss didn’t renege. “I went home to my wife and said, ‘I’m probably going to lose my job, but I can’t have this happen,’ ” he says. In the end, West says, he was able to persuade Buss.
如韦斯特所述，他们隔三差五就要劝说巴斯放弃一些会毁掉球队的人员变动计划。“他有些想法你根本不知道，”韦斯特说。他提到其中一个获得巴斯首肯的球员交易意向是：用沃西，未来将入选名人堂的球员，换取达拉斯的马克·阿吉雷(Mark Aguirre)和罗伊·塔普雷(Roy Tarpley)，两人都有容易分心的名声。韦斯特实在无法接受这个主意，以至于发誓如果巴斯不反悔，他就辞职。“我回到家，跟我妻子说，‘我可能要丢掉这份差事了，但我实在看不下去，’”他说。到最后，韦斯特说他成功说服了巴斯。
When Lacob and Guber bought the Warriors, they hired West as a senior adviser. They hoped his reputation as a basketball genius could stave off criticism of any controversial personnel moves they might make — “the cover of darkness,” as Guber termed it. “Peter said, ‘We’re taking over this team, it’s a disaster, it’s going to be ugly, all these things will go wrong, we’re not going to win for a while,’ ” Lacob recalls. “If we make a mistake, ‘Well, Jerry West thought it was a good idea.’ ” But West was also promised a deeper role, one without decision-making power but with plenty of input. “Bringing in Jerry West is not just a V.C. move but a typical Kleiner move,” says Vanguard Ventures’ McConnell. “They always put Nobel laureates on their advisory boards. In basketball, that’s West.”
莱科布和古柏买下勇士队后聘韦斯特为高级顾问。他们希望用他这个篮球天才的名头吓退批评者，让他们可以进行有争议的球员交易——用古柏的话说，这是“阴暗的掩护”。“彼得说，‘我们要接过这支球队，这将是一场灾难，会很难看，什么都不顺，要过很长一段时间才能开始赢球，’”莱科布回忆道。“一旦我们犯了错，‘呃，杰里·韦斯特认为这是个好主意。’”但他们还向韦斯特承诺了一个更深度的角色，没有决策权，但是会提出很多建议。“请杰里·韦斯特来不只是一个风投手段，还是一个典型的凯鹏华盈手段，”先锋创投的麦康奈尔说。“他们经常找诺贝尔奖得主作顾问。在篮球界，韦斯特就是这样的人物。”
West is known for his spirited, and occasionally profane, defense of his strongly held opinions. But Lacob doesn’t mind the shouting. His professional experience involved investing hundreds of millions of dollars in nascent businesses, some of them in categories that didn’t yet exist, then relying on the judgment of the executives he hired to guide them to profitability. He doesn’t just appreciate conviction; he relies on it.
在捍卫自己的强硬观点时，韦斯特的言辞激烈是很出名的，偶尔还有污言秽语。但莱科布不介意这些吼叫。他从事的工作需要在新兴产业上投入上亿美元，其中有些产业甚至都无从归类，而后他们要依靠自己雇来的那些管理人员，让他们的判断力引导公司实现盈利。他不只是欣赏坚定的信念；他是在依赖它。
Since joining the Warriors, West has disagreed strongly with Lacob on several personnel moves. Each time, Lacob has deferred. “Not everything you’ll do as an owner will work,” West says. “Some things that you’ll do, or might want to do, will not work. So you have to have the right people in place who can tell you that, not people who will crumble as soon as you express your opinion. That’s the first part. And then you have to be willing to listen to them.” With all the innovations that the ownership group has put into place, West seems to be saying, if Lacob’s skin had been a little thinner or his need to assert his authority a little greater, the Warriors might still be struggling.
自加入勇士队以来，韦斯特在许多人员变动上跟莱科布有严重分歧。莱科布每一次都屈服。“你作为老板所做的事情，不见得每件都是对的，”韦斯特说。“有些你要做或想做的事情，是不行的。所以你必须找到合适的人来告诉你这些，而不是那种一听到你表达意见就垮掉的人。这是第一步。然后你得有倾听他们的意愿。”鉴于球会在这一任所有人治下有如此多的创新，韦斯特似乎是在表明，如果莱科布的脸皮稍微薄一点，或者想要更多地彰显自己的权威，那勇士队可能至今仍没有起色。