What do a pizza box, a polar bear and you have in common?
披萨盒、北极熊和你，有什么共同点？
All carry a kind of industrial toxicant called poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances, or PFASs, that do two things: They make life convenient, and they also appear to increase the risk of cancer.
你们都携带着一种有毒的工业化学品，叫做全氟烷基和多氟烷基化合物(PFASs)。它可以做两件事：既能让生活变得更便捷，似乎也能增加癌症风险。
The scientists I interviewed say that they try to avoid these chemicals in their daily lives, but they’re pretty much unavoidable and now are found in animals all over the planet (including polar bears in Greenland and probably you and me). PFASs are used to make nonstick frying pans, waterproof clothing, stain-resistant fabrics, fast-food wrappers, microwave popcorn bags, firefighting foam and thousands of other products. Many are unlabeled, so even chemists sometimes feel helpless.
我采访过的科学家表示，他们会在日常生活中尽量避开这类化学物质，但几乎无处可逃。它们已经存在于地球各个地方的动物体内（包括格陵兰的北极熊，或许还有你我）。PFASs目前被用来生产不粘锅、防水服、抗污织物、快餐包装、微波爆米花袋、消防泡沫，以及成千上万的其他商品。许多东西都没有注明这种成分，因此就连化学家有时也会感到无助。
This should be a moment when government steps up to protect citizens. But from tobacco to lead paint to chemicals, industry has used donations, obfuscation and lobbying to defer regulation until the human casualties are too vast to be hidden.
这本应是政府站出来保护民众的时刻。不过，从烟草到含铅涂料再到化学品，工业领域一直在利用捐款、混淆视听和游说等手段来拖延监管，直到人体受到的伤害大到无法掩盖。
PFASs are “a poster child” for what’s wrong with chemical regulation in America, says John Peterson Myers, chief scientist of Environmental Health Sciences, a research and publishing group in Virginia. PFASs are just about indestructible, so, for eons to come, they will poison our blood, our household dust, our water and the breast milk our babies drink.
环境健康科学组织(Environmental Health Sciences)的首席科学家约翰·彼得森·迈尔斯(John Peterson Myers)认为，PFASs如今已成为美国化学品监管弊病的“一个招牌”。该组织位于弗吉尼亚，从事科研和出版工作。PFASs的目的就是为了让物品变得不可破坏，因此，在未来漫长的岁月里，它们会污染我们的血液、家里的灰尘、水资源，以及孩子喝的母乳。
Warnings of health risks from PFASs go back half a century and are growing more ominous. In May, more than 200 scientists released a Madrid Statement warning of PFAS’s severe health risks. It was published in Environmental Health Perspectives, a peer-reviewed journal backed by the National Institutes of Health.
有关PFASs健康风险的警告最早出现在半个世纪前，而这样的声音正变得越来越急迫。今年5月，逾200位科学家发布了《马德里宣言》(Madrid Statement)，警告PFASs带来的严重的健康风险。这份声明发表在《环境健康展望》(Environmental Health Perspectives)上。这是一份得到国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)支持的同行评议期刊。
The scientists cited research linking PFASs to testicular and kidney cancer, hypothyroidism, ulcerative colitis and other problems.
这群科学家援引的研究证明，PFASs与睾丸癌、肾癌、甲状腺功能减退、溃疡性结肠炎等问题有关。
Arlene Blum is a chemist whose warnings about carcinogens have proved prophetic. In recent years, she has waged an increasingly successful campaign against modern flame-retardant chemicals because of evidence that they also cause cancer, but she told me that PFASs “are even a bigger problem than flame retardants.”
化学家阿琳·布卢姆(Arlene Blum)关于致癌物质的一些警告在被一一证实。过去几年，她发起了一场反对现代防火化学材料的运动，因为有证据表明这些材料还能致癌。这场运动正在产生越来越明显的效果。但她告诉我，PFASs“比防火材料的问题更严重”。
The chemical industry acknowledges that older, “long-chain” PFASs are a problem but says that it is replacing them with “short-chain” versions that should be fine. It’s true that there is less evidence against the short-chains, but that’s perhaps because they have been studied less.
化工行业承认早期合成的“长链”PFASs确实存在问题，但又宣称，正在用“短链”版本取而代之，而后者应该没问题。的确，对短链PFASs的不利证据要少一些，不过，这或许是因为对它们进行的研究也更少。
Americans expect that chemicals used in consumer products have been tested for safety. Not so. The vast majority of the 80,000 chemicals available for sale in the United States have never been tested for effects on our health.
美国人以为，用于消费品中的化学物质经过了安全检测。事实并非如此。在美国，有8万种化学制品可供销售，其中绝大多数从没经过对人体健康影响的测试。
Any testing is being done on all of us. We’re the guinea pigs.
如果说有什么测试的话，那就是在我们所有人身上完成的。我们自身就是小白鼠。
Congress may finally pass new legislation regulating toxic chemicals, but it’s so weak a bill that the chemical industry has embraced it. The Senate version is better than nothing, but, astonishingly, it provides for assessing high-priority chemicals at a rate of about only five a year, and it’s not clear that the House will go that far.
国会可能会终于通过一项监管有毒化学品的新立法，但这项提案力度很小，就连化工行业都接受了它。参议院考虑的版本聊胜于无，但令人吃惊的是，其中规定的对重要化学品进行评估的速度仅为每年五个左右。目前尚不清楚众议院的版本能否达到这种程度。
Yes, of countless toxicants suspected of increasing the risk of cancer, obesity, epigenetic damage and reproductive problems, the United States would commit to testing five each year. And that would actually be progress.
是的，对于无数可能增加癌症、肥胖症、表观遗传损害及生殖疾病的风险的有毒物质，美国会承诺每年检测五项。而且，这实际上是一种进步。
For safety reasons, Europe and Canada already restrict hundreds of chemicals routinely used in the United States. Perhaps the danger of tainted brands and lost sales abroad — not the risk to Americans — will motivate American companies to adopt overseas limits.
出于安全原因，欧洲和加拿大已经对美国通常使用的数百种化学品加以限制。或许，品牌名声被毁、海外销售受损的危险——而不是给美国人造成的风险——会促使美国公司采用海外的限制标准。
Scientists are already taking precautions and weighing trade-offs in their personal lives. R. Thomas Zoeller, a biology professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, says he now avoids buying nonstick pans. Rainer Lohmann, an oceanographer at the University of Rhode Island, told me that he is replacing carpets in his house with wood floors in part to reduce PFASs.
科学家已经在遵照警惕性原则，在个人生活中进行权衡。马萨诸塞大学安默斯特分校(University of Massachusetts, Amherst)的生物学教授R·托马斯·策勒(R Thomas Zoeller)表示，他现在会避免购买不粘锅。罗德岛大学(University of Rhode Island)的海洋学家雷内·洛曼(Rainer Lohmann)告诉我，他准备将家中的地毯换成木地板，其中一个原因就是为了减少PFASs。
Simona Balan, a senior scientist at the Green Science Policy Institute, avoids microwave popcorn and stain-resistant furniture.
绿色科学政策研究所(Green Science Policy Institute)的资深科学家西蒙娜·巴兰(Simona Balan)不吃微波爆米花，不用抗污家具。
Dr. Blum says she avoids buying certain nonstick products and waterproof products, but reluctantly uses a glide wax for backcountry skis that contains PFASs. “Every time I spray it on, I realize the chemicals will be in my body for a very long time and on the planet for geologic time, perhaps longer than mankind,” Dr. Blum said. “But I do enjoy a good glide when I ski.”
布卢姆博士表示，她不会购买某些不粘产品和防水产品，但会勉强使用包含PFASs的野外滑雪滑行蜡。“每次喷上这种蜡，我都会意识到这些化学品会在我的体内留存很长时间，在地球上留存一个地质时代，或许比人类存活的时间还要长，”布卢姆说。“但我滑雪时确实很享受顺畅滑行带来的乐趣。”
Some brands, including Levi’s, Benetton and Victoria’s Secret, are pledging to avoid PFASs. Evaluations of the safety of products are available free at the GoodGuide and Skin Deep websites.
李维斯(Levi's)、贝纳通(Benetton)和维多利亚的秘密(Victoria’s Secret)等品牌承诺避免使用PFASs。GoodGuide与Skin Deep网站免费提供关于产品安全的评估。