Perhaps the collision of Donald Trump and the Clintons on the biggest stage of all was inevitable. But was it orchestrated? At the restaurant in Trump Tower last summer, I asked the mogul about the “Manchurian Candidate” buzz, about that phone call he got from Bill Clinton in May 2015, when the businessman and reality star was making up his mind whether to run. The Washington Post quoted four Trump allies and one Clinton associate as saying that Clinton encouraged Trump’s efforts to play a larger role in the Republican Party.
也许唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)和克林顿夫妇(Clinton)在最大舞台上的冲突是不可避免的。但它是预谋好的吗？今年夏天，在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的餐厅里，我向这位大亨问起“傀儡候选人”的传闻。据说，2015年5月，这位商人、真人秀明星在考虑是否参与总统大选时，接到了比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的电话。据《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)援引特朗普的四位盟友和克林顿的一位伙伴的话说，克林顿鼓励特朗普在共和党中发挥更大作用。
Roger Stone, author of “The Clintons’ War on Women” and a longtime confidant of Trump’s, claims that Bill urged Trump to get in the race and told him he thought he could get the nomination. “That’s why the people with the tinfoil hats are convinced the whole thing is a setup,” Stone says. “Bill can’t help himself from giving advice. He loves the game. He’s the great kibitzer.” Stone said Trump also asked Bill three years ago if anyone could be elected president as an independent, and Bill told him no.
《克林顿夫妇对女性的战争》(The Clintons' War on Women)的作者、特朗普的多年密友罗杰·斯通(Roger Stone)称，比尔力劝特朗普参选，说他认为特朗普能够获得提名。“所以喜欢阴谋论的人认为整件事是预谋好的，”斯通说，“比尔忍不住想给别人出主意。他很喜欢搞这种把戏。他特别爱管闲事。”斯通说，三年前，特朗普还问过比尔，独立党派候选人是否有可能当选总统，比尔说不可能。
I tried to get to the bottom of this murky story that day at Trump Tower, but when you’re dealing with Bill and Donald and truth, it’s an elusive goal.
那天，在特朗普大厦，我想把这件事搞个水落石出，但是，要搞清比尔和唐纳德之间的真相，真的不容易。
“Did Bill tell you that you should run?” I asked.
“比尔有没有对你说过，你应该去参选？”我问道。
“He didn’t say one way or the other,” Trump replied, over a plate of meatballs.
“他没有明确表态，”特朗普一边吃着一盘肉丸一边说。
To make the whole conspiracy wackier, when I began fact-checking this story, the Trump Tower version flipped, with Trumpsters saying that the phone call entailed Bill trying to talk Donald out of running because the former president knew that Trump could beat Hillary.
让整个阴谋变得更为怪异的是，当我为本报道做事实核查时，特朗普大厦的版本出现逆转。特朗普的支持者称，比尔打那个电话是想说服唐纳德不要参选，因为这位前总统知道，特朗普会把希拉里打败。
This new version was met with eye-rolling and mockery from Clintonistas. “Bill Clinton is not Frank Underwood,” a former top aide says. “I guarantee you he did not call Trump with an uber-plan, where he was five moves down the chessboard. He has a theory: You’ve got to give a lot to get a lot. But he doesn’t meddle like that, telling people to get in and get out. Trump shouldn’t flatter himself that Bill gave a damn one way or the other. Trump was just another guy on the call list.”
这种新版本遭到克林顿支持者的白眼和嘲笑。“比尔·克林顿不是弗兰克·安德伍德(Frank Underwood)，”一位前高级助理说。“我向你保证，他不是带着一个绝妙计划，提前想好了五步棋，再给特朗普打电话的。他坚信的逻辑是：你只有付出很多，才能得到很多。但他不会去鼓动别人参选和退选，他不会那样去干涉别人。特朗普不应该自我吹嘘，说什么比尔让他这样或那样。特朗普只是比尔的诸多致电对象之一。”
No matter how Trump got into the race, the way he has conducted it has made Bill burn. Trump escalated his attacks after the Billy Bush hot mike incident, dragging Bill’s accusers back onto the stage. No one else would have gone there or said, as Trump did, that Hillary had “one of the great women-abusers of all time sitting in her house, waiting for her to come home for dinner.” As a Clinton ally ruefully notes, “The last 15 years, everyone had forgotten about that, and now it’s back.” Trump also eagerly pounced to lash the Clintons to an astonishing new twist in the F.B.I. email investigation, involving Anthony Weiner, the estranged husband of Hillary’s closest aide, Huma Abedin, and his sexts to a 15-year-old North Carolina girl.
不管特朗普是如何参选的，他的竞选方式让比尔大为恼火。在比利·布什(Billy Bush)录音事件后，特朗普扩大了攻击范围，把比尔的批评者也拉回舞台。没有人会像特朗普那样，说希拉里“家里就有一个最会欺负女人的人，等着她回家做晚饭”。就像克林顿的一位盟友哀叹的：“在过去15年里，所有人都忘了那件事，现在又被翻出来了。”特朗普还急不可耐地扑上去，把克林顿夫妇与联邦调查局(FBI)邮件调查令人震惊的新转折绑在一起——它涉及希拉里最亲密的助理胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)分居的丈夫安东尼·韦纳(Anthony Weiner)，以及他给北卡罗来纳州一名15岁女孩发的性爱短信。
New York elites have gone from flabbergasted that Trump got this far to debating how the Trump family and one of Trump’s top strategists, Jared Kushner, Ivanka’s husband and the publisher of The New York Observer, will be received if they have to slink back into town. Some people say the attitude toward the Trump children will be more lenient; others think that the Trump brand is irrevocably damaged and that the whole family will be pariahs.
纽约的精英人士最初为特朗普竟说出这种话感到目瞪口呆，后来开始讨论，如果特朗普的家人以及他的一位高级战略师、伊万卡(Ivanka)的丈夫、《纽约观察家》(The New York Observer)的出版人贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)不得不偷偷溜回来，大家会怎么对待他们。有人说，人们对特朗普孩子的态度会更宽厚；也有人认为，特朗普这个品牌已遭到不可逆转的损害，他的整个家族将遭到摒弃。
“Will the word ‘Trump’ be used almost in profanity for some time to come among average New Yorkers?” asks Hank Sheinkopf, a veteran Democratic political consultant. “Likely so.”
“在未来一段时间里，在普通纽约人中，‘特朗普’这个词是否几乎会被用于骂人？”民主党资深政治顾问汉克·申克普夫(Hank Sheinkopf)问道。“很有可能。”
It may be beginning to dawn on Trump that he has thrown acid on his brand. He left the campaign trail during the final push to promote his new Washington hotel. The hotel is clearly struggling, cutting its expensive room rates and losing the famed chef José Andrés after Andrés decided Trump was “a racist, a divider.” I went to check it out recently, and it had a deserted feel. There was one African-American family posing under the Trump sign — giving a thumbs-down — and a strip of yellow crime tape across the front after vandals wrote “Black Lives Matter” on it.
特朗普也许慢慢开始明白，他损害了自己的品牌。在竞选的最后关头，他不去做巡回宣传，而是去推广自己在华盛顿新建的酒店。该酒店显然处境艰难，高昂的房价跌了下来，还失去著名大厨何塞·安德烈(José Andrés)，后者认为特朗普是一个“种族主义者和分裂者”。前不久我去看了那个酒店，它有一种被遗弃的感觉。有一个非裔美国家庭在特朗普的标志下摆出拇指朝下的姿势拍照，有人在正面墙上写了“黑人的命也是命”(Black Lives Matter)之后，酒店拉出了一条黄色警戒线。
“I can tell you, in my crowd, they would rather not do anything associated with Trump,” says one advertising and marketing big shot. “People are nauseated by what he’s doing.”
“我可以告诉你，我周围的朋友都不想跟特朗普扯上一丝一毫的关系，”一位广告和市场营销界的大佬说。“人们对他做的事感到厌恶。”
Cindy Adams, the New York Post columnist, disagrees: “He’ll go back to being the most famous face on this planet. No, his brand won’t be hurt. Trump will be Trump. Everybody will still want to meet him.”
《纽约邮报》(New York Post)的专栏作家辛迪·亚当斯(Cindy Adams)不赞成这种观点：“他还会成为这个世界上最著名的人物。不，他的品牌不会受到损害。特朗普将还是特朗普。大家依然都想见到他。”
Trump has said he hopes that Chelsea and Ivanka — who shared the problems of coming of age when their fathers were enmeshed in very public affairs — can remain friends. But on the Clinton side, people privately play down the friendship, saying that Ivanka, as with her father and the Clintons, was the one pushing the alliance. “There’s no Ivanka-Chelsea relationship,” the foundation executive says. “There was an Ivanka P.R. moment. It was a transaction. They both got what they wanted.”
特朗普曾说，他希望切尔西(Chelsea)和伊万卡依然能做朋友——她们曾面临同样的问题，在快成年时，父亲陷入非常公开的婚外情。但是，克林顿阵营的人私下里淡化这段友谊。他们称，是伊万卡一头热，就像她父亲曾努力结交克林顿夫妇那样。“伊万卡和切尔西之间没什么关系，”那位基金会高管称。“伊万卡的公关手法。那是一场交易。她们都得到了自己想要的。”
Some say it will be hardest for Kushner, an Orthodox Jew who got in deep with helping Trump as anti-Semitic sentiment swirled around the candidate. Joe Conason, author of “Man of the World” and a former employee of Kushner’s at The Observer, says: “People will remember this. Maybe you could get away with this in parts of Florida. But in New York City, this doesn’t fly.”
有人说，也许处境最艰难的是库什纳。他是一名正统派犹太教徒，他在这名候选人因为反犹言论而受到困扰时，帮他解围，从而深陷其中。《通达世事的男人》(Man of the World)的作者、库什纳《纽约观察家》的前雇员乔·康纳森(Joe Conason)称：“人们永远会记得。也许，在佛罗里达州的一些地方，你不会受到惩罚。但是在纽约市，这不会消失得一干二净。”
One friend of Trump’s from the real estate world is worried that Trump does not understand how the groups he has derogated and demeaned will wreak revenge on him. “He’s alienated women,” the friend says. “He’s alienated wealthy people. He’s alienated people from the Middle East. He’s alienated people from Latin America. These are all fertile ground where people could buy condos from him.”
特朗普地产界的一位朋友担心，他不明白自己贬损、侮辱的那些群体会报复他。“他排斥女性，”这位朋友说，“他排斥富人。排斥来自中东的人。排斥拉丁美洲来的人。这些人中有很多人本来很可能买他的公寓。”
At the annual Al Smith dinner last month at the Waldorf Astoria, a white-tie charity fête put on by the Catholic Archdiocese of New York that brings together high society and media and features humorous speeches by politicians, Trump was greeted warmly enough after he was introduced by Al Smith IV. “A kid from Queens with a big heart and a big mouth is without question a New York institution,” Smith said.
上个月，在华尔道夫-阿斯特里亚酒店(Waldorf-Astoria)举办的一年一度阿尔·史密斯(Al Smith)晚宴上——它是纽约大主教区举办的非常正式的慈善晚宴，汇聚了上流人士和媒体，政治人士发表幽默的演讲——阿尔·史密斯四世(Al Smith IV)介绍他上台后，他受到热烈欢迎。“一个雄心勃勃、口无遮拦的皇后区小孩无庸置疑是纽约社会的一部分，”史密斯这样介绍他。
But when Trump began to make harsher cracks about Hillary toward the end, out of sync with the tone of the event, he was repeatedly booed — spurned by the same Manhattan elites whose approval he had spent so long seeking. Afterward, he fled quickly with Melania without talking to anyone. As Trump returned to the seclusion of his Fifth Avenue Xanadu, he was playing a scene of megalomania and mortification straight out of one of his favorite movies, “Citizen Kane,” about the fall of a brash New York mogul who flew high, gave politics a shot and then had a steep fall after a sex imbroglio. “ ‘Citizen Kane’ was really about the accumulation,” Trump once said. “At the end of accumulation, you see what happens, and it is not necessarily all positive.” Hillary, meanwhile, was spotted nearly 20 minutes after he left, still laughing and mingling with the crowd.
但是，他在讲话末尾开始对希拉里进行更犀利的抨击时，发生了与活动气氛极不相称的事——观众多次发出嘘声，他被自己长久以来渴望得到他们赞赏的曼哈顿精英所摒弃。之后，他没有跟任何人说话，带着梅拉尼娅迅速离场，退隐到自己位于第五大道的上都里。这简直是重现了他最喜欢的影片《公民凯恩》(Citizen Kane)中关于自大和受辱的一幕。该片讲述的是一位自以为是、野心勃勃的纽约大亨败落的故事，他想在政治上一试身手，却因性纠葛而一落千丈。“《公民凯恩》其实讲的是积累，”特朗普曾说，“积累到最后，你会发现，你得到的不全是正面的东西。”在他离开近20分钟后，你能看到，希拉里仍在人群中大笑，和大家融合在一起。