PHILADELPHIA — The perfect crime is far easier to pull off when nobody is watching.
费城——在无人关注的情况下，实施无懈可击的犯罪要容易得多。
So on a night nearly 43 years ago, while Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier bludgeoned each other over 15 rounds in a televised title bout viewed by millions around the world, burglars took a lock pick and a crowbar and broke into a Federal Bureau of Investigation office in a suburb of Philadelphia, making off with nearly every document inside.
因此，在43年前的一天夜里，当全世界的无数观众都在电视上观看穆罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)和乔·弗雷泽(Joe Frazier)进行15个回合的冠军争夺战时，几名盗窃者利用一个撬锁工具和一根撬棍进入了美国联邦调查局（Federal Bureau of Investigation，简称：FBI）在费城郊区的一个办公室，偷走了那里的几乎所有文件。
They were never caught, and the stolen documents that they mailed anonymously to newspaper reporters were the first trickle of what would become a flood of revelations about extensive spying and dirty-tricks operations by the F.B.I. against dissident groups.
这些盗窃者一直没有落网，而他们匿名寄给报社记者的被盗文件，则成为后来针对FBI的潮水般的曝光报道中的第一股细流。这些曝光针对的是FBI对异见组织开展的大规模间谍活动和肮脏伎俩。
The burglary in Media, Pa., on March 8, 1971, is a historical echo today, as disclosures by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden have cast another unflattering light on government spying and opened a national debate about the proper limits of government surveillance. The burglars had, until now, maintained a vow of silence about their roles in the operation. They were content in knowing that their actions had dealt the first significant blow to an institution that had amassed enormous power and prestige during J. Edgar Hoover’s lengthy tenure as director.
如今，随着前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光的大量文件再次为政府间谍行为蒙上阴影，并且触发了全国对政府监控行为设置适当限制的讨论，1971年3月8日发生在宾夕法尼亚州米迪亚的这桩盗窃案仿佛发出了历史的回声。直到现在，这些盗窃者一直遵守着他们的诺言：对自己在行动中扮演的角色保持沉默。对他们来说，知道自己的行动对FBI造成了从未有过的严重打击，这就够了。在J·埃德加·胡佛(J. Edgar Hoover)担任局长的漫长任期中，FBI曾经积聚了巨大的权力和声望。
“When you talked to people outside the movement about what the F.B.I. was doing, nobody wanted to believe it,” said one of the burglars, Keith Forsyth, who is finally going public about his involvement. “There was only one way to convince people that it was true, and that was to get it in their handwriting.”
基思·福赛思(Keith Forsyth)是其中的一名盗窃者，他说，“如果你对这个运动以外的人说FBI干了什么，没有人会相信你说的话。”他最近公开了自己参与这项行动的事实。“要让人们相信这是真的，只有一个办法，那就是把FBI亲手写的东西给他们看。”
Mr. Forsyth, now 63, and other members of the group can no longer be prosecuted for what happened that night, and they agreed to be interviewed before the release this week of a book written by one of the first journalists to receive the stolen documents. The author, Betty Medsger, a former reporter for The Washington Post, spent years sifting through the F.B.I.’s voluminous case file on the episode and persuaded five of the eight men and women who participated in the break-in to end their silence.
现年63岁的福赛思和这个团队的其他成员目前已经无法因为当晚发生的事被起诉，他们还同意在本周由第一批收到这些被盗窃文件的一名记者撰写的一本书出版之前接受采访。这本书的作者贝蒂·梅兹格(Betty Medsger)曾经是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的记者，她花了多年时间研究关于这起事件的大量FBI案件卷宗，并说服这八个人中的五人打破沉默。
Unlike Mr. Snowden, who downloaded hundreds of thousands of digital N.S.A. files onto computer hard drives, the Media burglars did their work the 20th-century way: they cased the F.B.I. office for months, wore gloves as they packed the papers into suitcases, and loaded the suitcases into getaway cars. When the operation was over, they dispersed. Some remained committed to antiwar causes, while others, like John and Bonnie Raines, decided that the risky burglary would be their final act of protest against the Vietnam War and other government actions before they moved on with their lives.
与斯诺登不同，只需将数十万份NSA数字文件下载至电脑硬盘中即可，这些“米迪亚”盗窃者采用了20世纪的盗窃方式：他们对FBI办公室进行了几个月的探查，戴着手套将文件放入行李箱，并将行李箱装入逃跑用的汽车中。行动结束后，他们便分道扬镳。一些人仍然致力于反战事业，而约翰与邦尼·雷恩斯夫妇(John and Bonnie Raines)等人则决定，这次冒险的盗窃行动将会是他们针对越战及其他政府举措的最后一次反抗行动，接下来，他们将继续自己的生活。
“We didn’t need attention, because we had done what needed to be done,” said Mr. Raines, 80, who had, with his wife, arranged for family members to raise the couple’s three children if they were sent to prison. “The ’60s were over. We didn’t have to hold on to what we did back then.”
“我们不需要关注，因为我们做了需要做的事情，”80岁的约翰·雷恩斯说。“60年代已经过去了。我们不需要继续做我们当年做的事情了。”当时，雷恩斯夫妇已经做好安排，如果他们被关进监狱，其他家庭成员将抚养夫妇二人的三个孩子。
A Meticulous Plan
一个周密的计划
The burglary was the idea of William C. Davidon, a professor of physics at Haverford College and a fixture of antiwar protests in Philadelphia, a city that by the early 1970s had become a white-hot center of the peace movement. Mr. Davidon was frustrated that years of organized demonstrations seemed to have had little impact.
盗窃行动是哈弗福德学院(Haverford College)物理教授威廉·C·达维顿(William C. Davidon)的主意。在20世纪70年代早期，费城已经成为举行和平运动的中心，而达维顿是这里反战抗议活动的常客。多年来的有组织示威活动似乎没有什么影响，这让他很是沮丧。
In the summer of 1970, months after President Richard M. Nixon announced the United States’ invasion of Cambodia, Mr. Davidon began assembling a team from a group of activists whose commitment and discretion he had come to trust.
1970年夏季，也就是理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统宣布美国入侵柬埔寨数月后，达维顿开始在一群活动人士中间组队，他选择的是他觉得有决心且行事谨慎的人。
The group — originally nine, before one member dropped out — concluded that it would be too risky to try to break into the F.B.I. office in downtown Philadelphia, where security was tight. They soon settled on the bureau’s satellite office in Media, in an apartment building across the street from the county courthouse.
该组织——起初有九人，后来有一名成员退出——认为设法闯入FBI位于费城市区的办公室太冒险，那里的安保措施非常严密。他们很快选定了FBI位于米迪亚的卫星办公室，在和县法院隔一条街的一栋公寓内。
The burglary itself went off largely without a hitch, except for when Mr. Forsyth, the designated lock-picker, had to break into a different entrance than planned when he discovered that the F.B.I. had installed a lock on the main door that he could not pick. He used a crowbar to break the second lock, a deadbolt above the doorknob.
那次盗窃基本没出什么差错，只是指定撬锁人福赛思发现FBI在大门上装了一把他无法打开的锁，所以不得不改变原计划，从一个不同的入口进入。他用撬棍打开了第二把锁，是安装在门把手上方的一个门栓。
After packing the documents into suitcases, the burglars piled into getaway cars and rendezvoused at a farmhouse to sort through what they had stolen. To their relief, they soon discovered that the bulk of it was hard evidence of the F.B.I.’s spying on political groups. Identifying themselves as the Citizens’ Commission to Investigate the F.B.I., the burglars sent select documents to several newspaper reporters. Two weeks after the burglary, Ms. Medsger wrote the first article based on the files, after the Nixon administration tried unsuccessfully to get The Post to return the documents.
把文件装进箱子里以后，盗窃者纷纷坐上为逃跑准备的汽车，在一个农舍集合，整理偷来的材料。让他们欣慰的是，他们马上发现大部分材料都是FBI对政治团体进行间谍活动的铁证。盗窃者自称是调查FBI公民委员会(Citizens’ Commission to Investigate the F.B.I.)成员，把经过筛选的文件交给了几家报纸的记者。盗窃案发生两周后，梅兹格以这些文件为基础写出了第一篇文章。此前，尼克松政府曾要求《邮报》把相关文件还回来，但并未成功。
But the document that would have the biggest impact on reining in the F.B.I.’s domestic spying activities was an internal routing slip, dated 1968, bearing a mysterious word: Cointelpro.
但是，将对限制FBI在国内的间谍活动产生最大影响的文件是一个内部传送单，上面标注的日期是1968年，上面有个神秘的词：Cointelpro。
Neither the Media burglars nor the reporters who received the documents understood the meaning of the term, and it was not until several years later, when the NBC News reporter Carl Stern obtained more files from the F.B.I. under the Freedom of Information Act, that the contours of Cointelpro — shorthand for Counterintelligence Program — were revealed.
米迪亚盗窃者和得到这些文件的记者都不理解这个词的含义，直到几年之后，当NBC新闻记者卡尔·斯特恩(Carl Stern)根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)从FBI那里获得更多文件后 ，Cointelpro的梗概才为人所知。Cointelpro是反间谍计划(Counterintelligence Program)的缩写。
Since 1956, the F.B.I. had carried out an expansive campaign to spy on civil rights leaders, political organizers and suspected Communists, and had tried to sow distrust among protest groups. Among the grim litany of revelations was a blackmail letter F.B.I. agents had sent anonymously to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., threatening to expose his extramarital affairs if he did not commit suicide.
自1956年以来，FBI发动了一场大规模的行动，对民权领袖、政治组织者和可能是共产主义者的人进行监视，而且还试图在抗议组织中挑拨离间。这些残酷的爆料显示，FBI特工曾匿名致信小马丁·路德·金牧师(Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.)，威胁说如果他不自杀的话，就要把他的婚外情公之于众。
“It wasn’t just spying on Americans,” said Loch K. Johnson, a professor of public and international affairs at the University of Georgia who was an aide to Senator Frank Church, Democrat of Idaho. “The intent of Cointelpro was to destroy lives and ruin reputations.”
“这可不光是监控美国民众，”曾为爱达荷州民主党参议员弗兰克·丘奇(Frank Church)担任幕僚的乔治亚大学(University of Georgia)公共与国际事务教授洛赫·K·约翰逊(Loch K. Johnson)说。“Cointelpro的目的是毁掉别人的生活，破坏他们的名誉。”
Senator Church’s investigation in the mid-1970s revealed still more about the extent of decades of F.B.I. abuses, and led to greater congressional oversight of the F.B.I. and other American intelligence agencies. The Church Committee’s final report about the domestic surveillance was blunt. “Too many people have been spied upon by too many government agencies, and too much information has been collected,” it read.
上世纪70年代中期，丘奇参议员牵头的调查，进一步揭示了FBI数十年中滥用职权的广度，最终导致国会加强了对FBI等美国情报机构的监督。丘奇委员会关于国内监控状况的最终报告直言不讳。“太多人被太多政府机构监控，搜集的信息也太多了，”文中写道。
Mr. Davidon died late last year from complications of Parkinson’s disease. He had planned to speak publicly about his role in the break-in, but three of the burglars have chosen to remain anonymous.
达维顿去年年底死于帕金森病导致的并发症。他生前计划公开自己在入室案中的角色，不过有三名入室盗窃者选择了保持匿名。
Among those who have come forward — Mr. Forsyth, the Raineses and a man named Bob Williamson — there is some wariness of how their decision will be viewed.
坦白的人中包括福赛思、雷恩斯夫妇和一个名为鲍勃·威廉森(Bob Williamson)的男子。他们有些忧虑，不知外界会如何看待他们的举动。
The passage of years has worn some of the edges off the once radical political views of John and Bonnie Raines. But they said they felt a kinship toward Mr. Snowden, whose revelations about N.S.A. spying they see as a bookend to their own disclosures so long ago.
时间的流逝磨平了约翰和邦尼·雷恩斯一些曾经很激进的政治观点。不过，他们表示感觉与斯诺登有种亲近感。二人认为，他对NSA监控的揭发是对自己多年前的揭露行为的支持。
They know some people will criticize them for having taken part in something that, if they had been caught and convicted, might have separated them from their children for years. But they insist they would never have joined the team of burglars had they not been convinced they would get away with it.
他们明白，有些人会批评他们参与此事。要知道，如果被抓获并定罪，或许会与孩子们分离多年。然而，他们坚称，假如不是确信能全身而退，他们是不会加入盗窃团的。
“It looks like we’re terribly reckless people,” Mr. Raines said. “But there was absolutely no one in Washington — senators, congressmen, even the president — who dared hold J. Edgar Hoover to accountability.”
“表面看来我们胆大包天，”约翰·雷恩斯说。“其实，华盛顿当时绝对没有任何一个人敢向J·埃德加·胡佛追究责任，包括参议员、众议员，乃至总统本人。”
“It became pretty obvious to us,” he said, “that if we don’t do it, nobody will.”
“在我们看来很明显的是，”他说，“如果我们不行动，就没别人了。”