I recently had to sit my friend down for a modern-day digital intervention. It wasn’t that he was using his phone at dinner, or that he was hitting “reply all” on e-mail threads, or leaving unnecessary voice mail messages. No, this was much worse.
最近，我不得不让我的朋友坐下来谈谈，进行一次现代数字干预。这并不是因为他晚餐时使用手机，或是在电子邮件线程中点击了“回复全部”，或是留下了不必要的语言邮件。不，这一次的情形糟糕得多。
A few weeks ago my friend, Michael Galpert, who is 30-year-old and is founder of SuperCalendar, a personal assistant Web site, lives in New York City and was visiting the West Coast for work. I set him up on a date with a friend who lives in Los Angeles. The first date went well and the two decided to see each other again.
几周前，我这位住在纽约的朋友——私人助理网站“超级日历”(SuperCalendar)的创始人、30岁的迈克尔·加尔佩特(Michael Galpert)——因为工作原因来到了西海岸。我介绍他和住在洛杉矶的一个朋友约会。首次约会进行顺利，二人决定再次见面。
When Michael returned to New York, he and his new romantic interest started text messaging, and, as you often do if you are of a certain tech-savvy set, were communicating via emoji. As my colleague Jenna Wortham explained this year, emoji are the cartoonlike and more elaborate cousins of emoticons — those combinations of colons, parentheses and other punctuation that can convey expressions like a smile or a wink. ;-)
迈克尔回到纽约之后，他和他的新浪漫对象开始互通短信，就像某些技术通组合经常会做的一样，他们通过颜文字(emoji)联络。正如我同事詹娜·沃瑟姆(Jenna Wortham)今年解释的一样，颜文字类似于卡通，是做得比较精致的表情符号——由冒号、括号和其他标点符号构成的组合，可以用来传递微笑或眨眼之类的表情。;-)
The woman Michael was courting would type sweet nothings to him using emoji icons — a lady dancing, high heels or a martini with an olive — and this is where things went awry. Michael would respond with the “thumbs up” emoji, a hand that looks as if it belongs to an inflated cartoon character. When she would text “I’m excited to see you,” followed by a pink heart, Michael would respond with a thumbs up.
迈克尔正在追的这位女士会使用颜文字——一名跳舞的女士、高跟鞋或者一杯加了橄榄的马提尼——来向他倾吐甜言蜜语，问题就出在这个地方。迈克尔会回复一个“竖大拇指”的颜文字，那是一只手，看上去属于某个充气卡通人物。如果她输入“我急着想见你”，后面跟着一颗粉色的心，迈克尔就会回复一个大拇指。
The woman confided to me and a friend that she believed that based on his use of emoji, Michael was clearly not interested in her and just wanted to be friends. “It’s like he’s saying ‘Hey, dude’ or ‘Sure, bro’ when he sends me that emoji,” she told me. “It’s not cute.”
这位女士私下对我和一个朋友说，从迈克尔使用的颜文字来看，她认为迈克尔显然对她不感兴趣，只是想交个朋友。“他给我发送那样一个颜文字，简直就像在说，‘嘿，哥们儿’或‘好的，兄弟’，”她告诉我。“这不可爱。”
That’s when I had to intervene.
这就是我不得不进行干预的原因。
Sure, it might sound a bit odd that a new, long-distance relationship could fizzle because a tiny icon was misused, yet these types of messaging miscommunications happen often (though perhaps not quite as comically). The emoji icons can be baffling to the American adults who, whether they realize it or not, are taking their social cues from Japanese teenagers.
当然，听上去或许有点儿奇怪，一段相隔遥远的新关系居然可能会因为一个小图标的滥用而搞砸，然而，这一类信息误解经常都会发生（只不过或许不像这么有喜剧性）。颜文字会让一些美国成年人感到困惑，因为他们这是在接收来自日本青少年的社交讯号，不论他们是否认识到了这一点。
But American adults are not the first grown-ups with a tin ear for emoji.
不过，美国成年人并不是第一批看不懂颜文字的成年人。
“In Japan, there was a similar, interesting moment when you started to see older folks and men start using these kind of cute aspects — these emoji — that originally came from middle-school girl, mobile-phone culture,” said Mimi Ito, a cultural anthropologist at the University of California, Irvine, who studies how young people use digital media in Asia and the United States. “Now, as emoji are seeing more adoption in the U.S., you’re seeing a form of communication being used that was clearly developed and marketed to a different demographic.”
“日本有过一个类似的有趣时刻，你看到年纪较大的人和男人开始使用这些可爱的表情——颜文字——而这些东西最初来自中学女孩的手机文化，”加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的文化人类学家伊藤瑞子(Mimi Ito)说。她研究亚洲和美国的年轻人如何使用数字媒体。“现在，随着美国越来越多地接受颜文字，你将会看到一种交流方式投入使用，尽管这种方式显然是针对另一个人群开发并推广的。”
Emoji date back to 1995, when people used pagers instead of smartphones and NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s biggest cellular phone operator, added a small heart icon to its pagers. The heart spread rapidly among Japanese teenagers because it allowed them to express an emotion that was almost impossible to portray in small snippets of text.
颜文字最早可以追溯到1995年，当时人们用的还是呼机，而不是手机。那时候，日本最大的移动电话运营商NTT都科摩(NTT DoCoMo)在它的呼机里加了一个小小的心型符号。这颗心在日本青少年当中迅速流行开来，因为它能让这个群体表达一种情绪，这种情绪是小段的文字几乎无法刻画的。
While emoji made their way to America a few years later, not many people used them until 2011, when Apple included the symbols in iOS 5, the company’s mobile operating system. But Apple was not trying to woo American customers when it introduced the colorful pictorial icons. It was going after Japanese teenagers, said Fred Benenson, a data engineer at Kickstarter and the author of “Emoji Dick,” a recreation of Herman Melville’s classic novel, “Moby Dick,” told entirely in emoji.
几年之后，当颜文字跨越万里抵达美国时，使用它们的人并不多。这种情况直到2011年才有所改变，那一年，苹果(Apple)在该公司的移动操作系统iOS 5中加入了符号功能。不过，苹果推出这些丰富多彩的形象化符号，并不是为了取悦美国顾客。Kickstarter的数据工程师和《颜文字迪克》（Emoji Dick)的作者弗莱德·本南森(Fred Benenson)说，苹果是在博取日本青少年的青睐，《颜文字迪克》是对赫尔曼·梅尔维尔(Herman Melville)的经典小说《白鲸》（Moby Dick，又名《莫比·迪克》）的再创造，通篇用颜文字讲述。
Mr. Benenson said that once Apple added emoji to iOS — they required a separate downloadable app but are now available in a manually activated keyboard — it was apparent that they could be used to tell a much longer story. But, he warned, sometimes emoji can be lost in translation.
本南森说，苹果把颜文字加入iOS系统之后（它们曾需要一个单独下载的应用，现在则可以在手动激活键盘上使用），显而易见的事情是，人们可以用它们来讲述一个长得多的故事。但是他警告说，颜文字有时可能会被误读。
“There are these blind spots with emoji, as a lot of choices for the icons bias towards Japanese culture,” he said.
“颜文字有一些盲点，因为大量的这类图标都偏向于日本文化，”他说。
There are plenty of emoji for Japanese food like sushi, ramen noodles and mochi balls on a skewer. There are also lots of animals, including a dog, cat, mouse, bunny, frog and two camels. Unfortunately, emoji for slices of Americana like tacos and hot dogs are hard to find.
目前有很多日本食物的颜文字，例如寿司、拉面和签子上的糯米丸子。还有许多动物，包括狗、猫、老鼠、兔子、青蛙和两只骆驼。不幸的是，诸如炸玉米片和热狗之类的美国食品的颜文字很难找到。
American companies like Facebook have recently taken to emoji. But Facebook has been learning that the billion-plus people who communicate across its social network not only speak many different languages but also use emoji differently. Greg Marra, a Facebook product manager, recently traveled to India and Japan to better understand the differences.
Facebook之类的美国公司最近也喜欢上了颜文字。不过，Facebook一直都有所认识，通过社交网络交流的十几亿人不仅在说许多种不同的语言，还在以不同的方式使用颜文字。Facebook产品经理格雷格·马拉(Greg Marra)最近去了印度和日本，目的就是更好地理解这类差异。
“We discovered that in the Asian culture, the expression on an emoji face isn’t necessarily what conveys emotion. It’s the context of where that face is located,” Mr. Marra said.
“我们发现，在亚洲文化中，颜文字符号的表情并不一定体现着对应的情绪。要看这个颜文字符号所在的环境，”马拉说。
In Asian cultures, an emoji face in dark clouds would show that someone is sad and having a bad day. A face on a beach with the sun glaring means they are happy. In the United States, the emotion on the face tells the story, not the surroundings. Also, “stars for eyes could mean something completely different in Asia than using dots for eyes,” he said.
在亚洲文化中，乌云里的颜文字将表明某人很悲伤，这一天过得很糟糕。阳光海滩上的颜文字表示他们觉得快乐。而在美国，讲述内容的是脸上的表情，而不是环境。此外，“在亚洲，跟用圆点代表眼睛相比，用星星代表眼睛或许意味着完全不同的东西，”他说。
Eventually, though, Americans will catch on.
不过，美国人最终会明白的。
“Usually we see about a 10-year lag from when a new communication is adopted and when it becomes a norm,” Ms. Ito said. “We’re somewhere in the middle of that curve right now as an American-specific emoji culture forms in the U.S.”
“通常，一种新的通讯获得采用并成为一种标准，需要大约10年的时间，”伊藤说。“目前，我们正处于美国版颜文字文化成型过程当中的某一点上。”
As for Michael, things didn’t work out with the woman he was inadvertently insulting. But he said he learned a lesson along the way. “I’m no longer using the thumbs-up emoji,” he said recently. “I’ve switched it out for the star emoji.”
至于迈克尔，他与他无意中伤害过的那位女士的关系并没有好转。不过他说，他从中学到了一个教训。“我不再使用竖大拇指的颜文字，”不久前，他说。“我改用星星颜文字了。”