WASHINGTON — This was not the inauguration Hillary Clinton thought she would be attending. Some Democrats, still bitter about her election night defeat, grumbled privately that she should have skipped Donald J. Trump’s swearing-in, as 60 House Democrats did on Friday. But a groundswell of supporters praised her fortitude.
华盛顿——这不是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)想象中自己会去参加的就职典礼。一些民主党人至今仍对她在大选夜的失败耿耿于怀，私下里抱怨说，她本应不出席唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的宣誓就职仪式，就像60名民主党众议员周五所做的那样。但大批支持者对她的坚韧表示了赞赏。
There she was, in the bookend of a political career that spanned from first lady to senator to secretary of state, watching as her former Republican opponent was inaugurated as the 45th president.
她还是来了。当过第一夫人也当过国务卿的她，站在政治生涯的结尾处，看着从前的共和党对手就任第45任总统。
Mrs. Clinton was not required to accompany former President Bill Clinton and other former presidents and dignitaries to the ceremony. But after taking a deep breath backstage, she strode on stage with a practiced smile, wearing a Ralph Lauren coat and pants, all in white, a tribute to the suffragists that she had similarly made at times during her presidential campaign.
克林顿本不需要与比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)以及其他前总统和贵宾一起参加典礼。但在后台深吸一口气后，她大步走上台，脸上挂着机械的微笑，身上则穿着全白的拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)上衣和长裤——这是在向女性参政论者致敬，竞选总统期间她也做过同样的事情。
She greeted allies and adversaries, embraced former first ladies, got a thumbs up from former President George W. Bush, and exchanged a warm hello with her old boss, President Barack Obama, all while appearing impervious to the scattered chants of “Lock her up!” coming from the crowd.
她和盟友及对手打了招呼，拥抱了前第一夫人。前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)朝她竖起大拇指。她还和自己的前老板贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)暖暖地互道了哈罗，看似完全不为人群中零星爆发的“把她关进监狱”的呼喊所动。
Mrs. Clinton’s resolve to attend the event drew admiration from some who know her. “It speaks to the depth of her character, her patriotism and her broader faith that often got lost in the campaign and was so often undernoticed,” said Christine C. Quinn, a former New York City Council speaker and mayoral candidate in town for the Women’s March on Saturday.
克林顿决意参加此次活动，让某些了解他的人颇为钦佩。“这体现了她性格深处的东西，体现了她的爱国精神以及她更宽泛的信仰，而这方面的东西在竞选过程中常常没被体现出来，而且总是没有得到足够的重视，”纽约市前议长、前市长候选人柯奎英(Christine C. Quinn)说。柯奎英来到这里是为了参加周六的女性大游行。
On Friday morning, Mrs. Clinton wrote on Twitter: “I’m here today to honor our democracy & its enduring values. I will never stop believing in our country & its values.”
周五早上，克林顿在Twitter上写道：“我今天来到这里，以示对我们的民主及其历久弥坚的价值观的尊重。我永远都不会对我们的国家及其价值观失去信心。”
Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton did not shake hands at the swearing-in, but after the inauguration, the Clintons attended a luncheon in the Capitol, where the new president said he was “very, very honored” that the former first couple was there and asked them to stand for a round of applause. The Clintons, who sat at a well-positioned table with Mr. Trump’s daughter Tiffany, and others close to the new president, rose from their seats with tight grins.
特朗普和克林顿在就职典礼上并未握手，但典礼结束后，克林顿夫妇参加了一场在国会山举办的午餐会。其间，新总统表示前第一夫妇的光临让他“深感荣幸”，还请两人站起来接受一连串的掌声。克林顿夫妇从座位上起身时勉强露出了的笑容，他们那张桌子的位置很好，同桌的有特朗普的女儿蒂凡尼(Tiffany)以及其他一些与新总统关系密切的人。
“There’s nothing more I can say because I have a lot of respect for those two people, so thank you all for being here,” Mr. Trump said.
“我简直说不出别的来了，因为我对这两位非常尊敬，感谢你们的出席，”特朗普说道。
Aside from the occasional appearance at a Broadway show or walk in the woods around her home in Chappaqua, N.Y., Mrs. Clinton has kept a low profile since her election loss in November. As her husband and daughter, Chelsea Clinton, dive into their efforts at the Clinton Foundation, Mrs. Clinton has given no signal about what she will do next. “She’s just not there yet,” said a friend who talked to her recently.
自从11月败选后，除了偶尔现身百老汇看演出或在纽约查帕瓜居所附近的林中散步外，克林顿一直颇为低调。在丈夫和女儿切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)全面投身克林顿基金会(Clinton Foundation)的工作时，克林顿没有表现出自己接下来会做什么的迹象。“她还没缓过劲来，”最近和她聊过的一个朋友说。
Asked how she’s doing, Mrs. Clinton has told friends that she is “surviving,” said several people who have spoken with her but would describe the content of the private conversations only on the condition of anonymity.
据多名和她交谈过，但只愿意在匿名的条件下介绍私人交谈内容的人士称，被问到情况怎么样时，克林顿告诉朋友，她正在努力“活下去”。
Mrs. Clinton has pointed to the decision by the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, to release a letter related to her private email server days before the election and to the Russian government’s cyberattacks on Democratic targets as the reasons for her defeat.
克林顿把自己的失败归咎于联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在选举前公开一封和她的私人电子邮件服务器有关的信件的决定，以及俄罗斯政府对民主党目标发起的网络攻击。
In December, at an event in Manhattan to thank her top donors, Mrs. Clinton said the hacking attacks carried out by Russia were intended “to undermine our democracy” and were ordered by President Vladimir V. Putin “because he has a personal beef against me.”
12月，在曼哈顿的一场感谢主要捐赠者的活动上，克林顿说，俄罗斯发起的黑客攻击意在“破坏我们的民主”，并且是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)下令的，“因为他个人对我不满”。
Just as her candidacy divided many women, Mrs. Clinton’s attendance at the inauguration prompted mixed reactions.
就像克林顿的候选人身份在很多女性中引发分歧一样，外界对她出席就职典礼的做法反应不一。
To some, her presence was a reminder of the missteps of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign in a race that many Democrats considered hers to lose. Half a dozen elected officials who campaigned aggressively for Mrs. Clinton declined to comment when asked about her attendance on Friday.
在一些人看来，她的出现让人想起了克林顿竞选团队的失误。很多民主党人认为，正是她的失误导致竞选失败。被问及她周五出席总统就职典礼一事时，六名曾为她大力拉票的民选官员拒绝发表评论。
On Thursday, the Woman’s March on Washington, expected to draw roughly 200,000 women, put out a list of over two dozen honorees, including Shirley Chisholm, Gloria Steinem and Malala Yousafzai. One name not included: Hillary Clinton.
周四，预计会吸引大约20万名女性参加的“女性向华盛顿进军”(Women's March on Washington)活动公布了一份获奖名单，获奖者有二十多人，包括雪莉·奇瑟姆(Shirley Chisholm)、格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)和马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)。但希拉里·克林顿的名字不在其中。
“Even for women who were die-hard supporters, they want to know when she’s gonna decide not to attend the inauguration of a man who disrespected her and millions of women across the country,” said a post on social media by Linda Sarsour, an activist and a co-chairwoman of the Women’s March who supported Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in the Democratic primary.
“即便是对那些曾坚定地支持她的女性来说，她们也想知道她会在什么时候作出决定，不去参加一个曾对她和全国数以百万计的女性不敬的男人的就职仪式，”在民主党初选中支持佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)的活动人士、“女性向华盛顿进军”联合主席琳达·萨尔索(Linda Sarsour)在社交媒体上发帖说。
The decision not to honor Mrs. Clinton, who is not expected to attend the march, spurred a backlash. Supporters noted that the event’s official rallying cry, “women’s rights are human rights,” originated with Mrs. Clinton’s 1995 speech at the United Nations Fourth World Congress in Beijing.
克林顿预计不会参加游行。不给她颁奖的决定引发了强烈的反对。支持者指出，该活动的官方战斗口号“妇女的权利就是人权”就出自克林顿1995年在北京的联合国第四次世界妇女大会(United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women)上的演讲。
Other major moments in Mrs. Clinton’s career were marked not by her own forceful declarations, but rather by her ability to withstand painful public humiliations and defeats.
成就克林顿在事业上的其他重要时刻的，不是她自己发表的强力宣言，而是她能够承受令人痛苦的公开羞辱和失败。
“Everyone would have understood if she stayed home,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior campaign aide to Mrs. Clinton. “But that’s not how she’s built.”
“如果她待在家里，大家都会理解，”克林顿的一名前高级竞选助手说。“但那不是她的风格。”