On a recent night at an elegant Beaux-Arts ballroom in San Francisco’s financial district, Laurene Powell Jobs received a computer with an unusually rich history. Around 1980, Ms. Powell Jobs’s husband, Steven P. Jobs, donated the computer to a nonprofit organization, the Seva Foundation, to help the group manage data from its efforts to restore sight in the developing world.
不久前的一个晚上，在旧金山金融区一间“美术学院”风格的高雅舞厅里，劳琳·鲍威尔·乔布斯(Laurene Powell Jobs)收到了一台有着不凡历史的电脑。1980年前后，鲍威尔·乔布斯女士的丈夫史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)把这台电脑捐给了非营利性组织塞瓦基金会(Seva Foundation)，帮助该组织管理从发展中世界的视力恢复行动中获得的数据。
The nonprofit was now giving the computer — an Apple II that spent the last 33 years in Katmandu, Nepal, most of it packed away in a hospital basement there — back to Ms. Powell Jobs and her children from her marriage to Mr. Jobs.
如今，这家非营利性组织把这台电脑返还给乔布斯夫人和她与乔布斯婚后生育的子女。这是一台Apple II电脑。在过去33年里，这台电脑一直在尼泊尔加德满都，它的大部分组件存放在那里一家医院的地下室里。
The Apple II would be little more than an artifact in the history of a nonprofit if it was not also a rare symbol of the charity of Mr. Jobs, a man celebrated for his vision and leadership in the technology industry but who was routinely criticized before his death for his lack of giving. Some other billionaire technology innovators have given away huge chunks of their wealth — most notably Mr. Jobs’s longtime rival, Bill Gates. But Mr. Jobs shied away from philanthropy, at least of the public variety. Although his wife has long been an active benefactor of various causes, Mr. Jobs was portrayed as somewhat disdainful of philanthropic endeavors by his authorized biographer, Walter Isaacson.
如果不是成了乔布斯从事慈善的罕有见证，这台Apple II电脑不过是一家非营利性组织历史的一件遗物而已。乔布斯在科技行业的远见和领袖风范广受赞扬，但他生前也常常因为不怎么捐赠而饱受批判。科技行业其他一些腰缠万贯的创新人士已经捐出了大量个人财富，其中最有名便是乔布斯的宿敌比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)。但乔布斯避开了慈善机构，至少是公开的慈善机构。尽管长期以来，乔布斯的妻子一直是各种活动的积极捐助者，但根据乔布斯的授权传记作者沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)的描述，他有些瞧不起慈善机构。
That perception of Mr. Jobs has troubled Larry Brilliant, a longtime friend of Mr. and Ms. Jobs who, as a young physician, co-founded Seva in 1978. “I do want to counter the meme that he was disinterested in philanthropy and things for the greater good,” said Dr. Brilliant. “It wasn’t true.”
乔布斯的这种看法让夫妇俩的挚友拉里·布里连特(Larry Brilliant)很头疼。1978年，还是一名年轻医生的布里连特与人合作成立了塞瓦基金会。“传闻说他对慈善和能造福更多人的事情不感兴趣，对此我的确是想驳斥的，”布里连特说，“不是这么回事儿。”
Dr. Brilliant has a close-up view of the intersection between technology and philanthropy. He is the president of the Skoll Global Threats Fund, a nonprofit created by Jeff Skoll, a co-founder of eBay. Before that, Dr. Brilliant ran Google.org, the philanthropic arm of the search giant.
布里连特对科技与慈善之间的交集有着真切地观察。他目前是非营利性组织斯科尔应对全球威胁基金会(Skoll Global Threats Fund)的主席，这个基金会是eBay的联合创始人杰夫·斯科尔(Jeff Skoll)创建的。在此之前，布里连特负责运营搜索巨头谷歌的慈善网站Google.org。
He also had a unique perspective on Mr. Jobs, first meeting him in India in the early 1970s when an enlightenment-seeking Mr. Jobs showed up with bare feet and a shaved head at the Himalayan ashram where Dr. Brilliant was living. Dr. Brilliant went on to oversee a smallpox eradication program in India for the World Health Organization. Mr. Jobs came back to the United States and started Apple.
而他观察乔布斯的视角也是与别人不同的。上世纪70年代早期，他在印度第一次见到乔布斯。当时，正在寻找灵感的乔布斯剃了光头，光着脚出现在喜马拉雅山脚下一处静修的地方，布里连特也住在那里。后来，布里连特继续在印度为世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)管理一个根除天花的项目。乔布斯则回到美国，创立了苹果(Apple)公司。
Mr. Jobs got back in touch with Dr. Brilliant in the late 1970s, after reading a magazine article about his smallpox efforts in India. By then, Mr. Jobs was on his way to becoming a millionaire through Apple, and he wrote a $5,000 check to Dr. Brilliant so that he could create the organization that became Seva, which planned to make cataract surgery widely available to the poor.
70年代末，在看了一篇介绍布里连特在印度为根除天花所做的努力的文章后，乔布斯又和布里连特取得了联系。凭借苹果公司的成功，那时的乔布斯正走在成为百万富翁的路上。他给布里连特开了一张5000美元的支票，让布里连特创办塞瓦基金会的前身。塞瓦基金会的目标是让广大穷人也能获得做白内障手术的机会。
While the amount from Mr. Jobs was small, that first spurt of money was meaningful for the organization, Dr. Brilliant said, and had a galvanizing effect on other donors, helping it to quickly raise a total of $20,000 in a few weeks. “Seva wouldn’t exist without that grant,” he said.
布里连特说，尽管乔布斯提供的那笔钱金额不大，但这第一笔钱对该组织意义重大，而且还带动了其他捐赠者，帮助那个组织用几周的之间便迅速筹得2万美元。“如果没有那笔钱，就不会有塞瓦，”他说。
A letter from Mr. Jobs to one of Dr. Brilliant’s Seva co-founders around that time bears the letterhead of Apple Computer with one of its earliest corporate addresses on Bandley Drive in Cupertino, Calif. “I wholeheartedly accept your invitation to become a ‘member’ of SEVA,” reads the letter, signed by “Steven Jobs,” with the first letter of both names in lowercase. “Please let me know of any other specific opportunities where I can be of service.”
乔布斯在那前后给塞瓦基金会的一名联合创始人写过一封信，信头是苹果电脑(Apple Computer)，公司地址是加州库比提诺班德利大道，那是苹果公司早期的地址之一。“我全心全意接受您的邀请，成为塞瓦的‘一员’”，这封署名为史蒂文·乔布斯的信上写道，“如果有其他我能帮上忙的具体机会，请告诉我。”信的署名的首字母都是小写。
He gave the organization the computer around 1980, to help Seva enter and analyze survey data from its eye surgeries in Nepal. Mr. Jobs threw in a copy of an early spreadsheet program, VisiCalc, and an external hard drive that he boasted was the largest of its kind.
1980年前后，为了帮塞瓦输入和分析在尼泊尔做的眼科手术的调查数据，乔布斯把这台电脑送给了塞瓦。乔布斯还随同赠送了一份早期的电子表格应用程序VisiCalc和一个外置硬盘。乔布斯夸口称那个硬盘是同类产品中存储空间最大的。
“You’ll never be able to use all the memory,” Dr. Brilliant recalled Mr. Jobs telling him. “It’s five megabytes!’”
布里连特回忆说，乔布斯告诉他，“这内存你永远都用不完的。有五兆呢！”
The computer also played an accidental role in the evolution of online communities. When a helicopter ferrying several ophthalmologists went down in a remote area of Nepal because of an engine failure, Dr. Brilliant used the Apple II to set up an electronic chat using a primitive modem to help figure out how to salvage the helicopter. Participants around the world, including the maker of the helicopter, Seva colleagues in Michigan and World Health Organization offices, were linked together through their keyboards.
这台电脑还偶然地在在线社区的进化中发挥了作用。曾经有几名眼科医生乘坐的一架直升机由于引擎故障，停在了尼泊尔的一个偏远地区，布里连特用一个原始的调制解调器，通过这台计算机创建了一次网络对话，以找到解救直升机的办法。来自世界不同地区的参与者通过键盘进行交流，包括这架直升机的制造商、在密歇根的塞瓦基金会同事以及世界卫生组织的多个部门。
Dr. Brilliant credits that “computer conference call” as one of the inspirations behind the Well, an early online community that he co-founded. The Well was a progenitor of AOL, Facebook and other forms of social networking.
布里连特说，那次计算机电话会议是催生Well的灵感之一。Well是他参与创办的早期在线社区，也是AOL、Facebook以及其他形式的社交网络的鼻祖。
Ms. Powell Jobs accepted the computer with her son, Reed, at a ceremony commemorating the organization’s 35th anniversary. Seva says it has helped restore sight to 3.5 million people in Bangladesh, Cambodia, Nepal, Tibet, India and other countries since it was founded.
乔布斯夫人与她的儿子里德(Reed)在纪念塞瓦基金会成立35周年的仪式上接受了这台电脑。塞瓦基金会说，自从成立以来，该组织已经帮助孟加拉国、柬埔寨、尼泊尔、西藏、印度等地区的350万人恢复了视力。
“Steve was always very clear about his role in the genesis of Seva and it was his privilege to help support the heroic on-the-ground work of the doctors and health professionals involved in this courageous effort,” Ms. Powell Jobs said in a statement. “It’s amazing Seva found the Apple II donated by Steve and our family is thrilled to have it returned.”
鲍威尔·乔布斯女士在一份声明中写道，“史蒂夫一直非常清楚他在塞瓦基金会诞生过程中的角色，能够支持参与这项勇敢行动的医生和卫生领域专家们以及他们亲临现场的英雄壮举，是史蒂夫的荣幸。“塞瓦找到了史蒂夫捐助的Apple II，这令人惊讶，它能回来，我们全家都很激动”。
Based on his conversations with Mr. Jobs over the years, Dr. Brilliant said he was confident that Mr. Jobs, had he lived longer, would have eventually turned his attention to philanthropy. In the two years since his death, Ms. Powell Jobs, with a net worth estimated at more than $11 billion by Forbes magazine, has become more visible with her own philanthropic activities, supporting prominent causes like immigration reform, education and gun control.
根据这些年来与乔布斯的交流，布里连特说，他相信如果乔布斯还活着的话，有一天一定会把注意力转向慈善事业。在乔布斯去世两年后，鲍威尔·乔布斯女士因为她参与的多项慈善活动获得了更多关注，比如她对移民改革、教育和枪支管理等事业的支持。根据《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志的估计，鲍威尔·乔布斯女士的资产净值在110亿美元以上。
Mr. Brilliant said Mr. Jobs didn’t give away his wealth sooner because Apple was an all-consuming passion for him.
布里连特说，乔布斯先生没有更早捐出他的财富是因为他把全部热情都给了苹果。
“I only know how to do one thing well,” Mr. Brilliant said Mr. Jobs told him. “I think I can help the world by doing this one thing.” 
布里连特说，乔布斯告诉他，“我只能做好一件事。我觉得我可以通过做好这件事来帮助这个世界。”