MEXICO CITY — For five years, Alan P. Gross, an American aid worker, sat in a Cuba prison growing so despondent that he openly considered suicide.
墨西哥城——​​美国援助工作者艾伦·P·格罗斯(Alan P. Gross) 在古巴蹲了五年监狱，那期间他曾十分沮丧，一度公开表示想自杀。
Now Mr. Gross is contemplating a return visit to Cuba, and helping a new political action committee raise money to support elected officials and candidates promoting freer trade and travel to the island.
现在，格罗斯正在考虑再次前往古巴，他还帮助一个新的政治行动委员会筹集资金，以支持当选官员和候选人促进与古巴的更自由的贸易和旅行。
He will appear at a fund-raiser on May 4 in Miami at the home of his lawyer, Scott Gilbert, in support of New Cuba PAC, whose leaders said they hoped to capitalize on the détente between the United States and Cuba to push for broader access to the island for Americans.
他将于5月4日在出席他的律师斯科特·吉尔伯特(Scott Gilbert)在迈阿密家中的集资会，以支持新的政治行动委员会，该行动委员会的领导人说，他们希望利用美国与古巴之间出现的缓和，让这个岛国变得对美国人更开放。
Mr. Gross will lead an “off the record discussion on modernizing U.S.-Cuba policy” at the fund-raiser, which suggests contributions of $1,000 to $5,000.
在这次募捐会上，格罗斯将主持一个“就美国古巴政策现代化问题的闭门讨论”，出席讨论的建议捐款从1000美元到5000美元不等。
Mr. Gross declined an interview, but he has emerged on Twitter as a loquacious commentator on United States-Cuban affairs. In February, he testified in Congress in support of restoring diplomatic relations and easing trade and travel restrictions as a step toward increasing the flow of information to Cuba.
虽然格罗斯婉言拒绝了记者采访，但他已在Twitter上充当美国与古巴事务的健谈评论员。二月份，他曾在国会作证支持与古巴恢复外交关系，缓解贸易和旅行限制，以此作为增加信息向古巴流动的一个步骤。
Mr. Gilbert said Mr. Gross had “transcended the imprisonment he suffered for five years” and had promised since his release to “do what he could to promote a more constructive relationship” between the countries.
吉尔伯特说，格罗斯已经“将他遭受的五年监禁之苦至于身后”，而且自从他获释以来，一直表示“要尽自己的可能，来促进（两国之间）更加建设性的关系”。
Ultimately he would like to return to Cuba, Mr. Gilbert said, “in a different capacity” than the trip that led to his jailing, if it would help promote relations — and, of course, if Cuba would be as forgiving as he has been.
吉尔伯特说，如果有利于促进这种关系，当然，如果古巴也和格罗斯一样不计前嫌，格罗斯最终希望能“以不同的身份”，既不同于上次去时导致他被监禁的身份，重返古巴。
Mr. Gross’s case was central to the move by President Obama and President Raúl Castro to seek normalized relations, more than 50 years after both countries withdrew their ambassadors and closed embassies in the Cold War.
格罗斯的案子在奥巴马总统和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)寻求关系正常化的努力中起了中心作用，自从美国和古巴在冷战期间撤回了各自的大使、关闭了大使馆后，两国关系不好已经50多年了。
He was detained in December 2009 while delivering prohibited communications equipment to Cuba’s small Jewish community as part of a United States Agency for International Development program to spread Internet access in the country. Cuba charged him with crimes against the state and refused to let him go even as his health deteriorated and advocates pleaded for his release.
格罗斯是在2009年12月被古巴拘留的，当时他正在把被禁的通信设备运到古巴的一个犹太小社区，作为美国国际开发署在古巴国内扩大互联网接入计划的一部分。古巴指控他犯了危害国家罪，拒绝释放他，甚至不顾他的健康状况恶化、以及倡导者发出的释放他的请求。 
American and Cuban government negotiators eventually agreed on his return to the United States, an exchange of other prisoners who had been held on espionage charges and to work toward restoring full diplomatic relations and reopening embassies. At the same time Mr. Obama took his broadest steps to loosen trade and travel restrictions and soften the five-decade-long trade embargo mandated by Congress.
美国和古巴的谈判者最终就他返回美国的问题达成协议，用他交换了因间谍指控而被美国监禁的古巴囚犯，并开始向全面恢复外交关系、重开大使馆的方向迈进。与此同时，奥巴马为放松贸易和旅行限制，以及减弱美国国会法定要求的长达五十年之久的贸易禁运，采取了最广泛的措施。
The new PAC aims to carry those moves further and is part of a coordinated campaign, along with a new advocacy group, Engage Cuba, made up of Republican and Democratic political operatives.
新的政治行动委员会旨在进一步推动这些努力，它和一个由共和党和民主党的政工人员组成的新倡导团体“接触古巴”(Engage Cuba)一起，是一个协调行动的一部分。
They hope to seize on what they see as momentum against the embargo and to work toward its weakening and ultimate lifting.
他们希望能够抓住在他们看来是反对贸易禁运的势头，以进一步弱化禁运，并最终停止禁运。
“We think that there’s a legitimate path to get Congress to do something constructive on Cuba and this PAC will be a key part of that effort,” said Luis Miranda, a political strategist who is serving as a consultant for the PAC.
“我们认为有一个合法的途径，能让国会在古巴问题上做一些建设性的事情，这个行动委员会将是那个努力的重要组成部分，”路易斯·米兰达(Luis Miranda)说，他是为该政治行动委员会当顾问的政治谋士。
He declined to say how much money the PAC plans to raise at the event or in the near future, but said it would have bipartisan contributors and serve as a counterweight to another PAC that for several years has campaigned to maintain the embargo.
他拒绝透露该行动委员会在这次活动中、或在不久的将来计划募集多少钱，但表示行动委员会将会得到来自两党的捐款，并将成为令一个政治行动委员会的抗衡，那个委员会多年来一直在提倡维持禁运。
That group, U.S.-Cuba Democracy PAC, has raised $4 million since its inception in 2004, though its peak performance was $802,000 collected in the two-year reporting cycle ending in 2008.
那个委员会的名称是美国-古巴民主政治行动委员会(U.S.-Cuba Democracy PAC)，自2004年成立以来，已筹集到400万美元的捐款，但其表现最好的时期是截至于2008年的两年报告周期内筹到的80.2万美元。
It spent $1 million, mostly on Republican officials. It raised $560,000 in the period ending in December 2014, including a last-minute surge of $55,000 after Mr. Obama’s announcement.
那个委员会已经花掉100万美元，主要是花在共和党官员身上。它在截至于2014年12月的报告期内筹集到56万美元的捐款，其中包括奥巴马宣布新政策之后的最后时刻猛增的5.5万美元。 
Mauricio Claver-Carone, director of the PAC, shrugged off the new competitor, predicting it would join a few others in recent years that made similar promises but fizzled.
委员会主任毛克拉弗·克拉维尔-卡容内(Mauricio Claver-Carone)对新的竞争对手不以为然，并预计新对手将会像几年来一些其他团体一样，在做出类似承诺后，以失败告终。
“Anti-sanctions activists have started many PACs throughout the last few years,” he said, noting that none rose above $90,000 in donations. “All of their fund-raising numbers have been dismal.”
“反对制裁的活动人士在过去几年里已经成立了许多政治行动委员会，”他说，并指出，没有一家越过了9万美元捐款的门槛。“他们所有的筹款数额都令人沮丧。”
But James A. Williams, an organizer of both the new PAC and the advocacy group Engage Cuba, said the climate had clearly changed in recent months, with Mr. Obama and Mr. Castro holding unprecedented talks, American companies anxious to get in and do business with Cuba, visits by Americans soaring and polls in both countries showing strong opposition to the embargo.
但是，新行动委员会和倡导组织“接触古巴”的组织者詹姆斯·A·威廉姆斯(James A. Williams)说，最近几个月的情况已有明显的改变，奥巴马和卡斯特罗举行了前所未有的会谈，美国公司急于进入古巴开展业务，美国前去访问的人数飙升，两国的民意调查都显示了对禁运的强有力的反对。