GENESEO, N.Y. — The plane has no fixed seats, no flight attendants, no in-flight movie and no bathroom. It is not heated, insulated or pressurized. And on its last tour over France, somebody tried to shoot it down.
纽约州杰纳苏——这架飞机没有固定座位，没有空乘人员，没有机载电影，也没有洗手间。飞机没有接受过加热、隔热或是增压处理。而且上一次飞临法国上空时，有人试图将其击落。
But on Thursday, a septuagenarian war horse known as the Whiskey 7 will take off from a grass airstrip in central New York to attempt its most ambitious post-armistice mission: a trans-Atlantic crossing to pay tribute to the young Americans who went to war in Europe and those who never came home.
但在本周四，这架寿命超过70年、被称作“威士忌7号”(Whiskey 7)的战机将从纽约州中部一片草地上的简易跑道起飞，尝试完成休战后它所执行的最宏伟的任务：飞越大西洋，向那些当年去欧洲参战的美国年轻人，以及那些永远未能归来的人致敬。
The plane — a twin-engine, propeller-driven C-47 military transport — will cross the famously frigid North Atlantic for the 70th anniversary of the storming of Normandy during World War II, when the Whiskey 7 was a lead plane in a Britain-based group that dropped paratroopers over coastal France. This time around, its crew will navigate a 3,600-mile-long — and presumably flak-free — route, making refueling stops in Maine, Labrador, Greenland, Iceland and Scotland before buzzing the skies over Omaha Beach in early June.
这是一架双引擎的C-47螺旋桨军用运输机。它将飞越出了名寒冷的北大西洋，参加纪念二战诺曼底登陆70周年的活动。当时，这架“威士忌7号”是一个基地位于英国的机群的长机，它们将伞兵空投到了法国沿海地区。这一次，其机组成员将要飞行的航线长达3600英里（约合5800公里），想必不会遇袭。在6月初飞抵奥马哈海滩上空前，飞机会在缅因州、拉布拉多、格陵兰岛、冰岛和苏格兰停留加油。
Or so they hope. The five-person, all-volunteer aircrew is packing life rafts, survival suits and other safety gear in the event of emergency. “There will be five of us onboard,” said Mike Lindsay, the crew chief, “and five parachutes.”
或者说，他们希望如此。由五名志愿者组成的机组成员都准备了救生筏、救生衣和其他一些安全装置，以防出现突发情况。“机上就我们五个人，”机务长迈克·林赛(Mike Lindsay)说，“和五顶降落伞。”
The farthest the Whiskey 7 has flown recently is to Wisconsin for an air show. But Mr. Lindsay and his fellow airmen say they are confident, even if the men they intend to honor are a little less so.
“威士忌7号”近期飞得最远的一次是前往威斯康星州参加飞行表演。但林赛及其飞行同伴表示他们信心十足，虽然一些当年老兵将信将疑。
“I think it’s kind of nuts,” said Richard Ladd, 89, a local Veterans of Foreign Wars member who jumped out of a similar C-47 on D-Day as part of the 101st Airborne. “They’ve got more guts than we have.”
“我觉得有点疯狂，”当地89岁的老兵理查德·拉德(Richard Ladd)说。“他们比我们更有胆量。”诺曼底登陆当天，在第101空降师(101st Airborne)服役的拉德跳出了一架类似的C-47。他现在是海外战争退伍军人协会(Veterans of Foreign Wars)的成员。
Organizers of the trip scoff at that notion, saying that the flight is a fitting tribute to the veterans who braved the skies over Europe in far more dire and deadly circumstances and who — like the C-47 itself — are fading fast.
此次飞行的组织者对这一说法不以为然，称这次飞行是对那些老兵的恰当致敬。他们曾在远比现在艰难危险的环境中在欧洲上空英勇作战，现在正在快速地老去——好比这架C-47飞机本身。
“Used to be everybody in town had been in the war; veterans were dime a dozen,” said Austin Wadsworth, the president of the National Warplane Museum in Geneseo, which is sponsoring the trip. “And now we start looking and saying, ‘They’re going to be gone.’ ”
“过去，所有人都上过战场；退伍军人随处可见，” 赞助此次飞行的杰纳苏国家战机博物馆(National Warplane Museum)馆长奥斯汀·沃兹沃思(Austin Wadsworth)说。“现在，我们开始发现，‘他们就要离我们而去了。’”
The commemorations in Normandy are expected to bring a rush of tourists, Allied and Axis alumni, invasion re-enactors, and various presidents and prime ministers, including President Obama and Vladimir V. Putin.
诺曼底的纪念活动预计会吸引大批游客、同盟国和轴心国的老兵、再现登陆的人士，以及包括美国总统奥巴马和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在内的多位政要。
The Whiskey 7 crew — including Mr. Lindsay and four pilots, among them two experienced aviators from US Airways — is taking off three weeks before the June 6 anniversary, with the plane scheduled to participate in a commemorative jump by an American parachute team over original D-Day drop zones.
“威士忌7号”的机组成员是林赛和四名飞行员，其中两人是来自全美航空(US Airways)的经验丰富的飞行员，他们将在离6月6日的周年纪念日还有三周时起飞。按计划，这架飞机将飞临当年的那片空投区域，参加美国的一支跳伞队进行的纪念性跳伞活动。
It will be slow going: The Whiskey 7 will travel at about 140 miles per hour, roughly a quarter of the cruising speed of the average contemporary commercial flight. And while the plane will spend most of its time below the 10,000-foot level, at which oxygen is necessary, the air temperature inside the fuselage will probably linger around zero. (For higher altitudes the crew will carry supplemental tanks of oxygen.)
速度会很慢：“威士忌7号”将以大约140英里（约合225千米）的时速飞行，大概是当代商务飞机平均巡航速度的四分之一。虽然飞机大多数时间将在1万英尺（约合3千米）以下的高度飞行，但机舱内的气温仍可能会在零度左右。在1万英尺的高度，氧气成了必需品。（如果飞得更高，机组成员将需要携带额外的氧气罐。）
“That’s why I’m kind of looking forward to stopping in Scotland,” said Mr. Lindsay, who said he planned to pack a thermal sleeping bag, heavily layer his clothes, and celebrate when the plane reached Europe. “I want to get a good bottle of single malt.”
“这就是为什么我有些希望能停在苏格兰，”林赛说。他说他打算带上一条保温睡袋，多穿几层衣服，并在飞机抵达欧洲时进行庆祝。“我想喝一瓶上好的单一麦芽威士忌。”
Built in 1943, the Whiskey 7 in Geneseo took off from Cottesmore, England, early on the morning of June 6, 1944.
杰纳苏的这架“威士忌7号”建造于1943年，1944年6月6日清晨，它从英格兰科茨莫尔起飞。
A young paratrooper named Leslie Palmer Cruise Jr. was among those aboard. Now 89, Mr. Cruise remembers cacophonous noise, flak exploding, pitch-dark skies and a mad scramble to jump. “You never saw guys move so fast,” Mr. Cruise said in a telephone interview from his home in Horsham, Pa. “In camp, they’d be dragging anchor.”
一名叫做小莱斯利·帕尔默·克鲁斯(Leslie Palmer Cruise Jr.)的年轻伞兵是登机人员之一。现年89岁的克鲁斯还记得刺耳的噪音、炮弹爆炸的声响、漆黑的天空和跳伞时近乎疯狂的争分夺秒。“你从未见过人们行动如此之快，”克鲁斯在他位于宾夕法尼亚霍舍姆的家中接受电话采访时说。“在军营里，他们肯定都是慢吞吞的。”
Gary Mitchell, a member of the National Warplane Museum and a pilot and World War II buff, had the idea for the new Normandy flight while visiting France two years ago.
国家战机博物馆工作人员、飞行员和二战爱好者加里·米切尔(Gary Mitchell)是两年前去法国时产生重新进行诺曼底飞行这个想法的。
“He was like, ‘We should fly over there and take part in these ceremonies,’ ” said Mr. Mitchell’s daughter Erin Vitale, a professor from nearby Piffard, N.Y. “That’s the one thing about pilots: It doesn’t occur to them that it’s crazy.”
“他当时说，‘我们应该飞去那里，参加这些仪式，’”米切尔的女儿埃琳·维塔莱(Erin Vitale)说。她是纽约皮法德(Piffard)附近的一名教授。“飞行员就是这样：他们想不到这挺疯狂的。”
Mr. Mitchell died in September, but the plans continued. Today, the plane has been outfitted much as it would have been in 1944, right down to its “invasion stripes,” the black-and-white markings used to identify the invading Allied aircraft. It does have some more modern equipment, including donated GPS and landing systems, as well as an electronic locator beacon in case the plane needs to make a water landing. A portable toilet will be available, though privacy may be at a minimum.
9月，米切尔逝世，但他的计划仍在继续。如今，这架飞机已经像1944年那样全副装备，甚至连它的“进攻条纹”也不例外。“进攻条纹”是用来识别发动进攻的盟国飞机的黑白记号。它确实拥有一些更先进的装备，包括有人捐赠的全球定位系统(GPS)和着陆辅助设备，以及为了应对飞机需要水上降落而准备的电子信号浮标。飞机还将配置厕所，虽然隐私可能无法得到很好的保护。
Like paratroopers of yore, passengers on the Normandy trip will sit on seats attached to each side of the fuselage, facing one another. The jump door, however, will not be open (or, the crewmen hope, used during the crossing).
与过去的伞兵一样，此次诺曼底之行的乘客将坐在与机身两侧相连的座位上，面对着彼此。但是，跳伞用的门将不会被打开。（或者说，机组成员希望不要在飞越大西洋时用到它。）
News of the trip spread quickly among veterans in the area, many of whom use the warplane museum and the local Veterans of Foreign Wars chapter to recapture the comradeship they felt during the war.
关于此次飞行的消息迅速在该地区的老兵之中传开，他们中有很多人都会通过战机博物馆和海外战争退伍军人协会在当地的分支机构来重温他们在战争期间感受到的战友情谊。