The sensational, spidery plot of the most gripping game of thrones in modern history is best captured by two images. The first is from Donald J. Trump’s extravagant third wedding at his Mar-a-Lago estate in 2005: The junior senator from New York, glowing in gold silk and pearls, smiles up at the mogul in white tie with genuine delight as he says something that cracks up Hillary, Bill and Trump’s bejeweled bride, Melania. Donald and Hillary look “just like teenagers in love” in the flashbulb moment, as David Patrick Columbia, the editor of the website New York Social Diary, notes dryly. The second, more sinister image is from the St. Louis presidential debate last month: A Tang-colored Trump looms behind Hillary like a horror-movie fiend as she makes a point, while three of Trump’s guests in the front row, women who accused Bill of sexual assault, give her the stink eye and Chelsea and Bill sit nearby looking grim. What a difference a decade makes: from a Babylonian celebration, with Hillary and Bill cozying up to Donald, to a seething face-off, with Donald summoning ghosts from Bill’s scandalous past and threatening to throw Hillary in the clink if he’s elected.
这两张照片完美刻画了现代历史上最扣人心弦的权力游戏令人兴奋、错综复杂的情节。第一张照片摄于2005年唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)第三次结婚时在马阿拉歌庄园举行的豪华婚礼上：作为一名来自纽约州资历尚浅的参议员，希拉里穿着金色的丝质服装，佩戴着珍珠首饰，显得光彩照人；特朗普说了什么引得希拉里、比尔(Bill)和珠光宝气的新娘梅拉尼娅(Melania)开怀大笑，希拉里满脸笑容地抬头看着这位戴着白色蝴蝶结的大亨，显得真心高兴。正如网站“纽约社交日记”(New York Social Diary)的编辑戴维·帕特里克·哥伦比亚(David Patrick Columbia)冷冷指出的那样，唐纳德和希拉里看上去“简直就像”镁光灯下“坠入爱河的一对小年轻”。第二张照片摄于上月圣路易斯的总统辩论现场，画面中的情景凶险得多：在希拉里阐述一个观点时，肤色呈“果珍”色的特朗普就站在她的身后，如同恐怖片里的恶魔，他邀请的三名嘉宾——指控比尔性侵的女子——坐在前排，厌恶地看着希拉里，坐在旁边的切尔西(Chelsea)和比尔一脸严肃。十年让一切都大变样：从巴比伦式的奢华庆典上希拉里和比尔讨好唐纳德，变成了双方激烈的对峙，唐纳德召唤比尔阴魂不散的丑闻过往，并威胁如果自己当选便会将希拉里投入大牢。
We are in the final days of the first presidential contest between two New Yorkers in 72 years, since Thomas Dewey ran against Franklin D. Roosevelt: The 42-year-old Republican governor of New York used a Trump-style attack on the 62-year-old Democratic president, calling him “a tired old man.” On election night, the party and the wake will both be held in Manhattan. Hillary will hold hers at the Javits Convention Center, with its literal glass ceiling and, as The Times’s campaign reporter Maggie Haberman noted, an air of trolling: Back in the late 1970s, Trump wanted to build the center and slap the Trump name on it, but the city refused.
我们距离72年来首个在两名纽约人之间展开的总统对决只剩最后几天了。上一次还是托马斯·杜威(Thomas Dewey)和富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)之间的较量：42岁的共和党人、纽约州州长对62岁的民主党总统使用了特朗普式的攻击，称他是“一个疲惫的老头子”。在选举之夜，曼哈顿将同时举办庆功派对和守灵活动。希拉里将在贾维茨会议中心(Javits Convention Center)举行自己的活动。那里有真正的玻璃天花板和时报报道竞选新闻的记者玛吉·哈伯曼(Maggie Haberman)所谓的挑衅气氛：在70年代末，特朗普曾想自己来修建该中心并将特朗普这个名字留在上面，但遭到纽约的拒绝。
In this historically dreadful and mesmerizing election, which could lead to the death of the Republican Party and the ideological makeover of the Democratic Party, the New York aspect has been largely overshadowed. Only Lin-Manuel Miranda made a point of highlighting it, on “Saturday Night Live,” urging people to take their minds off the crazy election by coming to “Hamilton”: “It’s about two famous New York politicians locked in a dirty, ugly, mudslinging political campaign. Escapism!”
这是一场在历史上都堪称令人震惊和欲罢不能的选举，它可能会导致共和党死亡，并促使民主党在意识形态上的转变。在这场选举中，两名候选人都来自纽约这一点基本上被忽略了。只有林-马努艾尔·米兰达(Lin-Manuel Miranda)在《周六夜现场》 (Saturday Night Live)上强调了这一点，呼吁人们忘记这场疯狂的选举，去看《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)：“就是纽约的两个著名政客在进行一场肮脏、丑陋、互相诋毁的政治竞选。让人逃避现实的消遣方式！”
In the “single compact arena” of New York, E.B. White wrote, a gladiator and a promoter can come together in a city vibrating with great undertakings. “These two names, for the last two or three decades, represent what has been incredible and vulgar about this country at the same time,” says the Manhattan ad man and television personality Donny Deutsch. “We can trace our downfalls or upticks as a society through them.” The story of how Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton rose and reinvented themselves and embraced and brawled is the story of New York itself. It is a tale of power, influence, class, society and ambition that might have intrigued Edith Wharton, whose family once owned a grand home down the block from what is now Trump Tower.
E·B·怀特(E.B. White )曾写道，在纽约这个“单一、紧凑的竞技场上”，一名角斗士和一名推广人可以在这个充满活力、承担伟大使命的城市里走到一起。“在过去二三十年里，这两个名字同时代表着这个国家的不可思议和俗不可耐，”曼哈顿广告大亨、电视名人唐尼·多伊奇(Donny Deutsch)说，“我们可以从他们身上追溯这个社会的堕落和兴旺。”唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)如何向上攀登、重塑自己、拥抱和争吵的故事就是纽约本身的故事。它是一个关于权力、影响力、阶层、社会和野心的故事，它是有可能引起伊迪丝·沃顿(Edith Wharton)的兴趣的，其家族就曾在离如今的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)不远的地方拥有一个华丽的宅邸。
The Clintons started their move to New York from Washington in 2000, so Hillary could pursue her bid for the United States Senate and fly on her own after the Monica Lewinsky scandal. She had never lived in New York, but carpetbagging was no sin to cosmopolitan New Yorkers, who embraced Bobby Kennedy when he decamped from Massachusetts and suburban Washington in 1964, so she looked North to Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s Senate seat.
克林顿一家从2000年开始从华盛顿搬到纽约，以便希拉里竞选参议员，在莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)丑闻后独自发展。她此前从未在纽约居住过，但是国际化的纽约人并不讨厌来这里谋求利益的外地人——1964年，博比·肯尼迪(Bobby Kennedy)从马萨诸塞州和华盛顿市郊搬到这里时，纽约人热情地接纳了他。所以，希拉里把目光投向了北面的丹尼尔·帕特里克·莫伊尼汉(Daniel Patrick Moynihan)的参议员席位。
When they arrived, the Clintons found a lot of raw nerve endings among the moneyed elite, who were bitterly divided following Bush v. Gore. Although wealthy Democrats and Republicans in New York have largely united around Hillary this time, business executives were more suspicious of Gore than they were of the Clintons. In those days, Democrats were complaining that the election had been stolen from them, and Republicans were whinging that it had almost been stolen from them.
克林顿一家到纽约后触动了很多富有精英的敏感神经，他们正因追随布什(Bush)或戈尔(Gore)而痛苦地处于分裂之中。不过，这一次纽约富有的民主党人和共和党人大都团结在希拉里周围，商界高管对戈尔的怀疑要大于对克林顿夫妇的疑虑。当时，民主党人抱怨大选被对方窃取，共和党人也在抱怨大选差点被从自己手中偷走。
Hillary knew she should not be seen as a Manhattan insider, so just as Bobby chose Long Island as his base, she chose Westchester. She recast herself as a Yankees-loving New Yorker in the city and a Chicago-born daughter of the Great Lakes when she campaigned upstate. New York — and being a senator in the horrific aftermath of 9/11 — would change Hillary. “It toughened her up,” says Senator Charles Schumer of New York. “She’s harder-nosed about things. Life did that, but New York did, too.”
希拉里知道自己不应该被视为曼哈顿的圈内人，所以就像博比选择长岛(Long Island)作为自己的根据地一样，希拉里选择了韦斯特切斯特(Westchester)。在城里，她把自己重新塑造成一个热爱洋基队(Yankees)的纽约人，在纽约州北部拉选票时，她则是把自己塑造成芝加哥出生的大湖区女儿。纽约——以及在9·11事件的可怕余波中担任参议员——会改变希拉里。“那让她变得更坚强，”纽约州参议员查尔斯·舒默(Charles Schumer)说，“她对很多事情更精明。是生活改变了她，不过纽约也改变了她。”
Bill also needed a reinvention. After the impeachment and the Marc Rich pardon, he was in bad odor. He had to abandon plans to rent lavish offices for their foundation in Carnegie Hall Tower for almost $800,000 a year after critics pounced. He moved instead into offices in Harlem for $210,000 a year. The mulligan-loving ex-president was snubbed by four of the prestigious Westchester County golf clubs he reportedly tried to join. As Trump marveled to me at the time: “Now Clinton can’t get into golf clubs in Westchester. A former president begging to get in a golf club. It’s unthinkable.” Bill started an elaborate campaign to improve his image, making speeches at colleges and enlisting former cabinet members and other surrogates to talk up his legacy. Once Bill moved up in public estimation, he moved downtown with the foundation.
当时比尔也需要重塑自己的形象。在弹劾案和对马克·里奇(Marc Rich)的赦免后，他的名声不佳。在遭到强烈批评后，他不得不放弃以近80万美元的年租金在卡内基音乐厅大厦(Carnegie Hall Tower)为他们的基金会租用豪华办公室的计划。他转而搬进了年租金为21万美元的哈莱姆区办公室。据报道，这位喜欢在非正式高尔夫比赛中加击的前总统曾想加入四个著名的韦斯特切斯特乡村高尔夫俱乐部，却均遭到拒绝。就像当时特朗普曾对我感叹的：“现在，克林顿连韦斯特切斯特的高尔夫俱乐部都进不去。一位前总统央求着要加入一个高尔夫俱乐部。这简直不可思议。”为了改善自己的形象，比尔开始进行煞费苦心的宣传，在大学里做演讲，招募前内阁成员及其他代理人吹捧他的功绩。比尔在公众心中的形象有所改善后，他马上随基金会搬到了市中心。
With Hillary’s Senate bid underway, the Clintons held out their tin cup. They had been fund-raising in the city nonstop since 1990, but the asks intensified as they started their foundation in 2001 and rubbed shoulders with all the new wealth on Wall Street, which was driven by hedge funds and technology funds. With book deals and lucrative speeches and Bill’s role as an adviser to Ronald Burkle’s private-equity firm, Yucaipa, the Clintons worked their way out of the debt accrued by legal bills from a cascade of federal investigations to earn an estimated $230 million in the next 15 years.
希拉里竞选参议员时，夫妇俩开始筹款。他们从1990年起就开始不停地在该市筹款，但是，2001年他们开设自己的基金会后，筹款的力度加大了，会与华尔街上所有的新富交游往来。对冲基金和科技基金推动了这些新富的出现。通过出书、回报丰厚的演讲以及比尔在罗纳德·伯克尔(Ronald Burkle)的私募股权公司Yucaipa担任顾问赚的钱，克林顿夫妇偿还了在一系列联邦调查中欠的律师账单，在之后的15年里赚了约2.3亿美元。
As the Clintons fashioned a new life in New York, Trump was transforming himself as well — from a risk-taking developer facing bankruptcy to a low-risk licenser of his name for other people’s projects, from a brazen builder to a gilded reality-TV star on “The Apprentice.” He had come out of Queens, a pushy New York kid with family money but no social tools to climb the society ladder. “Even stuck out on Avenue Z, his head was always in Manhattan,” says Wayne Barrett, author of the biography “Trump: The Greatest Show on Earth.” Gwenda Blair, author of “The Trumps,” says Trump, resplendent in the ’70s in his three-piece burgundy suit with matching shoes and matching limo, recalled “this strapping lad from the provinces who comes to the city, like a figure out of Balzac’s ‘Lost Illusions.’ ”
克林顿夫妇在纽约开始新生活时，特朗普也在改变自己——从敢于冒风险的开发商转变为把自己的品牌许可授予他人项目的低风险转让人，从肆无忌惮的建筑商转变为真人秀节目《学徒》(The Apprentice)中一身贵气的明星。他来自皇后区，曾是一个冲劲十足的粗鲁纽约小孩，家里有钱，但没有通往上层社会的阶梯。“尽管在Z大道(Avenue Z)上崭露头角，但他日思夜想的永远是曼哈顿，”传记《特朗普：世上最大的表演》(Trump: The Greatest Show on Earth)的作者布莱尔韦恩·巴瑞特(Wayne Barrett)说。《特朗普一家》(The Trumps)的作者格温达·布莱尔(Gwenda Blair)说，70年代身穿酒红色三件套西服的珠光宝气的特朗普，再加上颜色搭配的鞋子和豪华轿车，让人想起了“从乡下来到城市的魁梧小伙儿，就像一个从巴尔扎克的《幻灭》(Lost Illusions)中走出来的人物。”
The New York society scene was set by the Rockefellers and the Astors with a tradition of civility, philanthropy and the arts at its heart. Even those who make money the rough way — especially them — adopt this genteel facade. Michael Bloomberg is the quintessential emblem of this model and Donald Trump is the quintessential raspberry to it. One top New York foundation official who requested anonymity — many people will only speak anonymously about the Trumps and the Clintons, because both clans are known to be vindictive — notes that “in the community of plutocrats and superachievers who come to New York, Donald Trump is seen as persona non grata. He’s not a civic leader.” New York, this person says, is a place where private-equity C.E.O.s like Henry Kravis and Stephen Schwarzman see themselves making commitments to the public good. Their status doesn’t come only from being in charge of powerful corporations. “It also comes from some attachment to a hospital or university or cultural center. Trump was never part of that ecosystem.” When the tightfisted Trump hosts a charity event for veterans or a charity golf tournament, it is dismissed as something to polish the Trump brand. Trump has turned off many people in the worlds of real estate, banking and law with his strong-arming, fee-shaving or stiffing, bankruptcies and litigiousness. “Most real estate guys won’t go near him,” a leading New York financial executive says. “You lie down with dogs, you get up with fleas.”
洛克菲勒(Rockefeller)家族和阿斯特(Astor)家族用礼仪、慈善及艺术塑造了纽约上流社会圈子，就连那些利用比较粗野的手段赚钱的人，或者说尤其是他们，也继承了这种文雅的面貌与作风。迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael Bloomberg)是这种模式的典型代表，而唐纳德·特朗普则是其尖刻反面的代表。 某个纽约顶尖基金会的一名高层在匿名的情况下表示，在来到纽约的富豪和超级成功人士群体中，唐纳德·特朗普是个不受欢迎的人，他不算是个民间领袖。很多人在提到特朗普和克林顿两家时都要求匿名，因为这两拨人都以喜欢报复而闻名。此人表示，纽约这个地方在亨利·克拉维斯(Henry Kravis)和斯蒂芬·施瓦兹曼(Stephen Schwarzman)等私募基金首席执行官眼中，是一个为社会公共利益献身的地方。他们的地位并不仅仅来自对有影响力的大公司的掌管，也来自于与医院、大学，及文化中心的联系。而特朗普从来都不在这个生态系统中。当吝啬的特朗普为退伍军人举办慈善活动，或是开办慈善高尔夫锦标赛，人们都认为那是为了推广特朗普这个品牌。因为特朗普的吝啬、以强凌弱、讨价还价、多次破产，及对诉讼的喜好，他疏远了地产、银行和法律界的很多人。“大部分地产商人不愿接近他，”纽约的一位重要的金融高管说。“你和狗躺到一块，就会沾上虱子。”
Trump thumps his chest about money, acting as if he’s Bloomberg-wealthy, while the Clintons pretend they have less than they do. Trump wants to belong, to get more legitimacy by elbowing his way into the power crowd, while the Clintons passed that threshold of belonging after two terms in the White House. A top media mogul dismisses all three as outsiders: “No one here thinks of the Clintons as New Yorkers, and Donald is a bridge-and-tunnel person. He’s always been a poseur in New York.”
特朗普吹嘘自己有钱，表现得好像他和布隆伯格一样富有，而克林顿夫妇则假装自己没多少钱。特朗普想获得归属感，想通过削尖脑袋挤进权贵群体来获得更多认可。而克林顿夫妇在白宫度过两界任期之后，已经超然地处于那道门槛之上。一位媒体大亨称他们三个都是圈外人，“在这里，没人认为克林顿一家是纽约人，而特朗普只是一个郊区来的家伙，一直在纽约这里装腔作势。”