For many, no drink is more synonymous with good health than green tea, the ancient Chinese beverage known for its soothing aroma and abundance of antioxidants. By some estimates, Americans drink nearly 10 billion servings of green tea each year.
对于很多人来说，没有哪种饮料比绿茶更能称得上是健康的代名词了，这种古老的中国饮料以怡人的芳香和充足的抗氧化剂著称。一些人预计，美国人每年要喝近100亿份绿茶。
But a new report by an independent laboratory shows that green tea can vary widely from one cup to the next. Some bottled varieties appear to be little more than sugar water, containing little of the antioxidants that have given the beverage its good name. And some green tea leaves, particularly those from China, are contaminated with lead, though the metal does not appear to leach out during the brewing process.
但来自一家独立实验室的新报告显示，这杯绿茶跟那一杯，也许相去甚远。一些瓶装绿茶饮料无非就是糖水，几乎完全不含为它赢得美名的抗氧化剂。而一些绿茶茶叶，尤其是从中国进口的茶叶，则含有铅，不过在冲泡后，铅看来不会渗到茶汤里去。
The report was published this week by ConsumerLab.com, an independent site that tests health products of all kinds. The company, which had previously tested a variety of green tea supplements typically found in health food stores, took a close look at brewed and bottled green tea products, a segment that has grown rapidly since the 1990s.
这项报告本周由ConsumerLab.com发表，这是一家检测各类健康产品的独立网站。该公司曾测试过一系列通常可从健康食品店购得的绿茶营养补剂，现在则将注意力转向冲泡和瓶装绿茶饮料上，这个商品门类自20世纪90年代以来，取得了迅速增长。
It found that green tea brewed from loose tea leaves was perhaps the best and most potent source of antioxidants like epigallocatechin gallate, or EGCG, though plain and simple tea bags made by Lipton and Bigelow were the most cost-efficient source. Green tea’s popularity has been fueled in part by a barrage of research linking EGCG to benefits like weight loss to cancer prevention, but the evidence comes largely from test tube studies, research on animals and large population studies, none of it very rigorous, and researchers could not rule out the contribution of other healthy behaviors that tend to cluster together.
研究发现，用散装茶叶冲泡的绿茶也许是抗氧化剂最优质也是最高效的来源，这种抗氧化剂就比如表没食子儿茶素没食子酸酯（epigallocatechin gallate，即EGCG），不过由立顿(Lipton)和百杰乐(Bigelow)生产的普普通通的袋泡茶，则是最划算的来源。绿茶之所以流行，一部分原因是涌现出了大量EGCG可帮助减肥、预防癌症的研究，但这些证据大多来自实验室研究、动物实验或大型人群研究，这些研究都不是十分严格，研究人员也没有排除其他对健康有益的行为。
Green tea is one of the most popular varieties of tea in the United States, second only to black tea, which is made from the leaves of the same plant. EGCG belongs to a group of antioxidant compounds called catechins that are also found in fruits, vegetables, wine and cocoa.
在美国，绿茶是仅次于红茶的最流行的茶叶品种，两者的原材料是同一种茶树的叶子。EGCG隶属于一种叫儿茶素的抗氧化剂，在水果、蔬菜、红酒和可可豆中也同样存在。
The new research was carried out in several phases. In one, researchers tested four brands of green tea beverages sold in stores. One variety, Diet Snapple Green Tea, contained almost no EGCG. Another bottled brand, Honest Tea’s Green Tea With Honey, claimed to carry 190 milligrams of catechins, but the report found that it contained only about 60 percent of that figure. The drink also contained 70 milligrams of caffeine, about two-thirds the amount in a regular cup of coffee, as well as 18 grams of sugar, about half the amount found in a can of Sprite.
该项新研究分几个步骤实施。在第一阶段，研究人员对四个市售品牌瓶装绿茶饮料进行检测。一种是思乐宝低卡绿茶(Diet Snapple Green Tea)，它几乎完全不含EGCG。另一种瓶装饮料是诚实茶(Honest Tea)出品的蜂蜜绿茶，这个牌子声称含有190毫克儿茶素，但研究表明，它所含有的儿茶素仅为上述数字的60%。这种饮料还含有70毫克咖啡因，达到了一杯普通咖啡所含咖啡因的三分之二；另外有18克糖，是一听雪碧(Sprite)含糖量的一半。
Another phase of the study looked at green tea in its more natural forms – loose tea leaves sold by Teavana and tea bags sold by companies like Bigelow and Lipton. A single serving of Teavana’s Gyokuro green tea, about one teaspoonful, was chock-full of antioxidants, yielding about 250 milligrams of catechins, a third of which were EGCG. It also contained 86 milligrams of caffeine, slightly less than a regular cup of coffee.
研究第二阶段是测试自然形态的绿茶——Teavana公司销售的绿茶茶叶和诸如百杰乐和立顿公司出品的袋泡茶。Teavana的日式玉露茶(Gyokuro)含有大量抗氧化剂，一份大概一茶匙的茶叶含有约250毫克儿茶素，其中三分之一为EGCG。它还含86毫克咖啡因，只比一杯普通咖啡含量略低。
A single bag of the green tea sold by Lipton and Bigelow contained somewhat smaller amounts of antioxidants than Teavana’s green tea and generally minimal amounts of caffeine. But Teavana’s recommended serving size was large, and the tea was also far more expensive, resulting in a higher cost per serving. The report calculated that the cost to obtain 200 milligrams of EGCG ranged from 27 cents to 60 cents with the tea bags, and $2.18 with the Teavana loose tea leaves.
立顿和百杰乐的绿茶茶包含有的抗氧化剂较之Teavana的绿茶要少些，咖啡因微乎其微，但Teavana建议的冲泡量很大，而且它家的茶叶要贵的多，这就导致每份茶的价格更加昂贵。研究计算发现，摄取200毫克EGCG，如果是喝袋泡茶，费用从27美分到60美分不等，而喝Teavana的茶叶，价格则是2.18美元。
But the most surprising phase of the study was an analysis of the lead content in the green tea leaves. The leaves in the Lipton and Bigelow tea bags contained 1.25 to 2.5 micrograms of lead per serving. The leaves from Teavana, however, did not contain measurable amounts.
不过，这项试验最惊人的阶段，是对绿茶茶叶中的铅含量进行检测。立顿和百杰乐的每个茶包里含有的铅为1.25到2.5微克。而Teavana的绿茶茶叶中所含有的铅则少到无法测量。
“Lead can occur in many botanical products because it is taken up from the ground,” said Dr. Tod Cooperman, president of ConsumerLab.com. “The green tea plant is known to absorb lead at a higher rate than other plants from the environment, and lead also can build up on the surface of the leaves.”
“在多种植物产品中均可发现铅，因为它采自土壤，”ConsumerLab.com的总裁托德·库珀曼(Tod Cooperman)博士说，“现在已知相比其他植物，绿茶茶树可从环境中吸收更高份量的铅，此外铅还可积聚在茶叶的叶片表面上。”
Dr. Cooperman said the tea leaves containing lead probably originated in China, where studies have found that industrial pollution causes the leaves in some regions to gather substantial amounts of lead. The Teavana leaves came from Japan, where that is less of a problem, he said. The decaffeination process also helps remove lead.
库珀曼博士说，含铅的茶叶可能原产自中国，已有多项研究发现，工业污染导致中国部分地区出产的茶叶积蓄了大量铅。而Teavana公司的茶叶是由日本进口，污染问题相对不严重。此外，脱咖啡因的工序也有助于除铅。