MY favorite story in Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee’s fascinating new book, “The Second Machine Age,” is when the Dutch chess grandmaster Jan Hein Donner was asked how he’d prepare for a chess match against a computer, like I.B.M.’s Deep Blue. Donner replied: “I would bring a hammer.”
在埃里克·布林约尔松(Erik Brynjolfsson)和安德鲁·麦卡菲(Andrew McAfee)引人入胜的新书《第二次机器时代》(The Second Machine Age)中，我最喜欢的故事是，当有人问荷兰的国际象棋特级大师扬·海恩·多纳尔(Jan Hein Donner)，和电脑——比如后来的IBM“深蓝”(Deep Blue)——下棋前会做什么准备时，他回答：“我会带上一把铁锤。”
Donner isn’t alone in fantasizing that he’d like to smash some recent advances in software and automation — think self-driving cars, robotic factories and artificially intelligent reservationists — which are not only replacing blue-collar jobs at a faster rate, but now also white-collar skills, even grandmasters!
砸碎某些最先进的软件和自动化装置，有过这种想象的人不只多纳尔一个。想想无人驾驶汽车、机器人工厂和人工智能预订员吧，它们不仅在以更快的速度取代蓝领工人，而且如今也在取代白领职员，乃至特级大师！
Something very, very big happened over the last decade. It is being felt in every job, factory and school. My own shorthand is that the world went from “connected to hyperconnected” and, as a result, average is over, because employers now have so much easier, cheaper access to above-average software, automation and cheap genius from abroad. Brynjolfsson and McAfee, both at M.I.T., offer a more detailed explanation: We are at the start of  the Second Machine Age.
过去10年里，发生了某种非常非常重大的事情。各行各业、每所工厂和学校对此都有体会。我自己的简单总结就是：世界从“联接走向了超联接”，结果，水平一般就行不通了，因为雇主现在可以轻易地找到性能出色得多、价格也低廉得多的软件和自动化设备，以及薪资低廉的海外人才。来自麻省理工学院(MIT)的布林约尔松和麦卡菲对此做了更为详细的解释：我们正处在第二次机器时代的开端。
The First Machine Age, they argue, was the Industrial Revolution that was born along with the steam engine in the late 1700s. This period was “all about power systems to augment human muscle,” explained McAfee in an interview, “and each successive invention in that age delivered more and more power. But they all required humans to make decisions about them.” Therefore, the inventions of this era actually made human control and labor “more valuable and important.” Labor and machines were complementary.
他们认为，第一次机器时代是18世纪末伴随着蒸汽机诞生的工业革命。这一时期集中在“用动力系统来增强人体肌肉”上，迈克菲在接受采访时解释，“当时，每个成功的发明都带来了更多的动力。但是，它们都需要人来做出相关的决定。”因此，那个时代的发明实际上是让人类的控制和劳动变得“更有价值且更加重要”。人类劳动和机器之间是一种互补关系。
In the Second Machine Age, though, argues Brynjolfsson, “we are beginning to automate a lot more cognitive tasks, a lot more of the control systems that determine what to use that power for. In many cases today artificially intelligent machines can make better decisions than humans.” So humans and software-driven machines may increasingly be substitutes, not complements. What’s making this possible, the authors argue, are three huge technological advances that just reached their tipping points, advances they describe as “exponential, digital and combinatorial.”
不过，在第二次机器时代，布林约尔松表示，“我们开始对大量认知任务和控制系统进行自动化。利用动力来做什么事情，就是由这些控制系统确定的。现今在很多情况下，人工智能机器都能做出优于人类的决定。”所以，人类和软件驱动的机器可能日益形成替代关系，而非互补关系。两位作者认为，让这一切成为可能的是三大技术进步。它们刚刚抵达各自的临界点，分别被称为“指数进步、数字进步和组合进步”。
To illustrate “exponential” they retell the story of the king who was so impressed with the man who invented chess that he offered him any reward. The inventor suggested rice to feed his family. He asked the king to simply place a grain of rice on the first square of a chessboard and then have each subsequent square receive twice as many grains as the previous. The emperor agreed until he realized that 63 instances of doubling yields a fantastically big number, even starting with one grain — like 18 quintillion grains of rice, once you finish the second half of the chess board.
在解释“指数进步”时，他们引用了国王和国际象棋发明者的故事：国王非常欣赏这个发明家，提出要奖赏他任何东西。发明者表示，需要大米来养活家人，国王只需要在棋盘的第一个方格里放一粒米，然后在接下来每个方格放的米粒数都是前一个方格的两倍即可。国王同意了，但后来他发现，即使最开始只有一粒米，翻63番后数量也会庞大无比——当放满后一半棋盘时，米粒数将达百万的三次幂再乘以18倍。
The authors compare this second half of the chessboard to Moore’s Law about the relentless doubling of digital computing power about every two years. Unlike the steam engine, which was physical and doubled in performance every 70 years, computers “get better, faster than anything else, ever,” says Brynjolfsson. Now that we’re in the second half of the digital chessboard, you see cars that drive themselves in traffic, Jeopardy-champion supercomputers, flexible factory robots and pocket smartphones that are the equivalent of a supercomputer of just a generation ago.
两位作者把“后一半棋盘”与摩尔定律(Moore’s Law)相提并论。后者是指，数字计算能力大约每两年就提升一倍。布林约尔松称，蒸汽机是实体的，其性能每70年翻一番，而电脑“进步的速度和性能超越了其他任何东西”。既然我们现在处在数字棋盘的后半程，你可以看到在车流中行进的无人驾驶汽车，赢得电视问答比赛冠军的超级计算机，灵活的工业机器人，以及小巧玲珑、性能却不输于上一代超级计算机的智能手机。
Now add the spread of the Internet to both people and things — soon everyone on the planet will have a smartphone, and every cash register, airplane engine, student iPad and thermostat will be broadcasting digital data via the Internet. All this data means we can instantly discover and analyze patterns, instantly replicate what is working on a global scale and instantly improve what isn’t working — whether it is eye surgery techniques, teaching fractions or how best to operate a G.E. engine at 30,000 feet. Suddenly, the speed and slope of improvement, they argue, gets very fast and steep.
现在，再加上互联网和物联网的蔓延——很快，地球上每个人都会拥有智能手机，而且每一部收银机、飞机发动机、学生用的iPad，以及温控仪都会通过互联网发布电子数据了。所有这些数据的出现，意味着我们可以即时发现并分析规律，在全球范围内马上复制效果良好的东西，即刻改进效果不佳的事务——无论是眼科手术技巧、数学教学方法，还是如何最好地在三万英尺高空操作通用电气(GE)出品的发动机。两位作者表示，突然之间，技术革新的速度变得非常之快，改进曲线变得十分陡峭。
Combinatorial advances mean you can take Google Maps and combine them with a smartphone app like Waze, through which drivers automatically transmit traffic conditions on their routes by just carrying their phone in their car, and meld both into a GPS system that not only tells you what the best route is to your destination but what the best route now is because it also sees all the traffic everywhere. Instantly, you’re the smartest driver in town.
“组合进步”，则意味着你可以把谷歌地图(Google Maps)和Waze这样的智能手机应用结合起来，集成到一个GPS系统之中。驾驶者只需把手机放在车内，就可以通过Waze自动传送路途上的交通状况，而这个GPS系统不仅会告诉你前往目的地的最佳路径，而且还能告诉你眼下的最佳路径是哪一条，因为它通晓各处的交通路况。你一下子就变成了全城最聪明的司机。
Put all these advances together, say the authors, and you can see that our generation will have more power to improve (or destroy) the world than any before, relying on fewer people and more technology. But it also means that we need to rethink deeply our social contracts, because labor is so important to a person’s identity and dignity and to societal stability. They suggest that we consider lowering taxes on human labor to make it cheaper relative to digital labor, that we reinvent education so more people can “race with machines” not against them, that we do much more to foster the entrepreneurship that invents new industries and jobs, and even consider guaranteeing every American a basic income. We’ve got a lot of rethinking to do, they argue, because we’re not only in a recession-induced employment slump. We’re in a technological hurricane reshaping the workplace — and it just keeps doubling.
两位作者说，把所有这些进步合在一起，你就可以看到：与之前任何时代相比，我们这一代人将拥有更大的能量来改善（或破坏）这个世界，而且这一过程将更少地依靠人，更多地倚仗技术。但是，这也意味着我们需要深刻反思社会契约，因为对于一个人的身份和尊严，以及对社会的稳定来说，劳动都是至关重要的。他们建议，我们可以考虑降低人的劳动税，使其相对于数字劳动力的成本更低；重塑教育机制，让更多的人可以“与机器合作”，而不是跟它们竞争；采取更多的措施来促进人们创业，从而催生新的产业，创造新的岗位；甚至我们还可以考虑给所有美国民众发放基本收入。作者认为，我们需要进行诸多反思，因为我们不仅处在经济衰退引发的就业低迷中，而且还处在重塑职场的技术飓风之中——而它的力量只会不断翻番。