Reporters seeking interviews in parts of the former Soviet Union quickly get used to the brushoff. But, in a combined 10 years of living and working in the region after the 1991, I have never seen anyone respond to my request with the sheer terror displayed by Ryu Song-cho, a convicted North Korean spy now nearing the end of an eight-year jail term for espionage in the central Ukrainian town of Zhytomyr.
在苏联部分地区请求采访的记者很快就习惯了被拒绝。1991年后，我在该地区断断续续一共生活和工作了十年，但我从未见过哪个人像刘松哲（Ryu Song-cho，音）那样，对我的采访请求表现出巨大的恐惧。他是一名朝鲜间谍，因间谍罪被判在乌克兰中部城市日托米尔服刑八年，目前刑期即将结束。
He did not just say no or demand a faxed request with detailed questions (the customary way in these parts of telling a journalist to get lost). After being led into a bare, concrete-wall reception room by prison guards earlier this month, he took one look at me and Brendan Hoffman, a Times photographer, and ran away screaming. The guards let him go, explaining that Mr. Ryu and a second jailed North Korean spy were terrified of what would happen to them if and when they return to North Korea if they were to speak with an American news organization.
他没有拒绝采访，或者要求传真详细的采访问题（这是该地区拒绝记者的常见方式）。本月初，他被狱警领进一个光秃秃的混凝土墙接待室，看了我和时报摄影师布伦丹·霍夫曼(Brendan Hoffman)一眼，就尖叫着跑开了。狱警没有拦他，称刘松哲和另一名被监禁的朝鲜间谍十分恐惧，担心如果自己接受美国新闻机构采访，将来返回朝鲜会遭受可怕的后果。
North Korea and its bumptious leader, Kim Jong-un, can, despite the fearsome missiles and nuclear weapons, sometimes seem almost comical when viewed from a distance, but the blind fear of Mr. Ryu was anything but funny. I felt ashamed for intruding and adding to his misery.
尽管朝鲜拥有可怕的导弹和核武器，但从远处审视朝鲜及其狂妄的领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)时，有时你会觉得有几分可笑，但是，刘松哲毫无理智的恐惧一点都不好笑。我为自己打扰他、增加他的痛苦而感到愧疚。
Mr. Ryu and his fellow spy, Ri Tae-gil, were first arrested in Ukraine back in 2011 for trying to steal missile secrets while posing as members of a North Korean trade mission. Ukraine’s domestic intelligence agency, known as S.B.U., says it announced their arrest at the time — I have found no record of this — but that nobody paid any attention until this year, when North Korea shocked the world by launching a missile capable of hitting the continental United States.
 刘松哲和他的间谍搭档李泰吉（Ri Tae-gil，音）是2011年被捕的，当时他们假扮成一个朝鲜贸易代表团的成员，试图窃取导弹机密文件。乌克兰情报机构乌克兰国家安全局(SBU)声称，当时他们就宣布了逮捕的消息——我没有找到任何相关记录——但是直到今年朝鲜发射了一枚足以打击美国本土的导弹，震惊了全世界之后，才有人关注此案。
More shocking for Ukraine, however, was a July report in The Times that North Korea may have accelerated its previously problem-plagued missile program by stealing missile technology from a Soviet-era rocket factory in eastern Ukraine. Ukrainian officials dismissed the report as Russian disinformation and, in an effort to prove that North Korea could never have obtained secret technology in Ukraine, alerted journalists to the presence of the two North Korean spies in Zhytomyr.
不过，更让乌克兰震惊的是，时报今年7月的一篇报道称，朝鲜或许已经通过从乌克兰东部一个苏联时代火箭工厂窃取的导弹技术，加快了本国此前问题多多的导弹计划的进程。乌克兰官员斥该报道为俄罗斯人放出的假消息；为了证明朝鲜决不可能在乌克兰获得秘密技术，他们提醒记者注意，有两个朝鲜间谍被关在日托米尔。
CNN first reported on their imprisonment in early September, and Mr. Hill and I made our own trip to Zhytomyr to see them a few days later with help from Oleksandr Turchynov, the head of Ukraine’s security and defense council. That Ukraine has two North Korean spies in jail, Mr. Turchynov told me, showed that his country took a firm stand against missile and nuclear proliferation and would never have allowed secret technology to leak to Pyongyang.
9月初，CNN率先报道了两人被关押一事；几天后，我和希尔在乌克兰国家安全和国防委员会负责人奥列克桑德尔·图奇诺夫(Oleksandr Turchynov)帮助下自行前往日托米尔。图奇诺夫告诉我，乌克兰关押着两个朝鲜间谍这一事实表明，乌克兰坚决反对导弹和核扩散，绝不会允许秘密技术流往平壤。
The clearly terrified prisoners, however, had no interest in playing along with Ukraine’s efforts to clear its name. Neither expressed any complaints about their confinement, but, apparently haunted by what awaits them back in North Korea, both resembled hunted animals.
不过，两名显然充满恐惧的犯人，并没有兴趣参与乌克兰为本国正名的行动。两人都未对自己被关押表示出任何不满，但显然深深困扰于回到朝鲜后等待着他们的命运，看上去就像是待宰的猎物。
Unlike Mr. Ryu, the first of the jailed pair with whom I tried to speak, Mr. Ri — a second, older spy — did not run away when presented with a journalist. But he declined to say anything of substance about missiles, mumbling in Russian to answer questions, and then quickly demanding that guards take him back to his cell.
不同于刘松哲，也就是我试图与之交谈的第一名犯人，更为年长的第二名间谍李泰吉见到记者时没有撒腿就跑。但用俄语咕哝着回答问题的他，拒绝谈及与导弹有关的任何实质性内容，随后迅速要求警卫带他回自己的牢房。
His cellmates, in contrast, were delighted to have a visitor to break the tedium of jail life. They talked about how Mr. Ryu was scared for his safety and that of his family back in North Korea, and how he spent hours silently watching cable television, particularly reports about North Korean missiles. Four of the eight men in the cell are convicted murderers, and they all seemed to think that having a North Korean spy in their midst added a touch of glamour to their grim confinement.
相较之下，他的室友们倒是很高兴能有一个访客来打破监狱生活的沉闷。他们谈起李泰吉如何担心自己的安全，如何长时间地静静观看有线电视节目，尤其是与朝鲜的导弹有关的报道。那间牢房里的八个男人当中有四个是被定罪的谋杀犯；他们似乎全都认为，跟一个朝鲜间谍共处一室，给严酷的牢狱时光增添了一丝光彩。
Anatoli Gabitov, the deputy warden, also voiced pride in having Mr. Ri among his inmates, praising him as a model prisoner who never complained about the food and, unlike everyone else, never protested that he was innocent and should be released and sent home. “I don’t think he is in a hurry to go home to North Korea,” he said.
副狱长阿纳托利·加比托夫(Anatoli Gabitov)也表示，看管的犯人之中有李泰吉这么一号人物，令他颇为骄傲。他称赞李泰吉是模范犯人，从不抱怨食物，而且和其他人不同，他从不声称自己是无辜的，应该被释放并送回国。“我不认为他急于回朝鲜，”他说。