The horrifying rash of massacres during this violent summer suggests that public, widely covered rampage killings have led to a kind of contagion, prompting a small number of people with strong personal grievances and scant political ideology to mine previous attacks for both methods and potential targets to express their lethal anger and despair.
在这个弥漫着暴戾之气的夏天，一次又一次骇人听闻的屠杀表明，广为报道、尽人皆知的滥杀无辜已经成为一种传染病，一小撮有着强烈个人不满与偏狭政治理念的人受到先例煽动，便去钻研其中的做案手法及潜在目标，并将之挪来用以抒发自己致命的愤怒与绝望。
The Iranian-German who killed nine people at a Munich mall was reportedly obsessed with mass killings, particularly the attack by a Norwegian that killed 77 people in 2011. The Tunisian who killed 84 people at a Bastille Day celebration in Nice, France, also researched previous attacks, including the mass killing in Orlando, Fla. The Orlando gunman had reportedly researched the San Bernardino, Calif., attack.
在慕尼黑的一座购物中心杀害了9个人的伊朗裔德籍凶手，据说对大规模屠杀十分着迷，特别是2011年挪威那起导致77人丧生的袭击。在尼斯法国国庆节活动中造成84人丧生的突尼斯籍凶手，也在作案前研究过之前的袭击事件，包括美国佛罗里达州的奥兰多同志俱乐部枪击案。据传犯下奥兰多案的枪手也曾研究过加州圣贝纳迪枪击案。
Some of the attacks are ideological, some are not and some fall into a gray area. But the highly publicized attacks in a nightclub and restaurants in Paris, at airports in Brussels and Istanbul, and in public spaces in Mumbai may be providing troubled people already contemplating violence a spur to act, experts said, in the same way that many school shootings and other violent rampages follow close on the heels of similar incidents in the news.
有些袭击案是出于意识形态，有些则不然，另一些案件的犯案动机难以认定。不过专家表示，一些受到广泛报道的案件，比如在巴黎的夜总会与餐厅发生的袭击案，还有布鲁塞尔机场、伊斯坦布尔机场以及孟买公共场所的爆炸案，可能会刺激那些已考虑行凶、心绪不宁的人采取行动，正如许多校园枪击案、暴力攻击案都是紧接在新闻报道类似事件之后发生的一样。
“Those of us in this field, it’s the first thing we think about when we read accounts of these recent mass murders: The detailed coverage of terrorist attacks may be giving people who are vulnerable or thinking along these line ideas about what to do and how to do it,” said Madelyn Gould, a professor of epidemiology and psychiatry at Columbia.
纽约哥伦比亚大学的流行病学与精神科教授玛德琳‧古尔德(Madelyn Gould)表示：“我们这一行的人读到最近这些大屠杀报道的时候，想到第一件事情就是：对恐怖袭击案做巨细靡遗的报道，可能会让心理脆弱、有类似念头的人知道他们能做些什么、该如何付诸实施。”
The historical evidence that terrorist attacks become blueprints for random massacres is slim, Dr. Gould and others said. No one knows precisely what factors prompt people to commit such extreme acts, when the primary motivation is radical ideology. In rare cases where perpetrators survive, even they often do not have a clear sense of what moved them from despair and anger to large-scale murder.
古尔德博士与其他专家表示，要说恐怖袭击案会成为随机屠杀事件的榜样，史实证据还不足。虽然这些人会犯案主要是出于激进的意识形态，但没人知道究竟是什么因素促使人们采取如此极端的举动。在少数有凶手存活的案件中，就连凶手自己都不太明白，是什么将他们的绝望与愤怒化为大规模屠杀。
“In interviews, they come across as what we call pseudo-terrorists,” said J. Kevin Cameron, the director of the Canadian Center for Threat Assessment and Trauma Response, who has consulted on school shootings and other mass killing for almost 20 years. “They’re people with some ax to grind who are fluid — that is, they’re truly at their core struggling with suicide and homicide, and they swing between the two. Today the person is more suicidal; a week later he’s more homicidal.”
“他们在访谈中表现，用我们的话说就是‘伪恐怖分子’，”加拿大威胁评估及创伤反应中心(Center for Threat Assessment and Trauma Response)主任J‧ 凯文‧卡梅伦(J. Kevin Cameron)表示。他研究校园枪击案与其他大规模屠杀案已有近20年时间。“他们是心事重、捉摸不定的人。也就是说，他们确实在与自杀或谋杀的念头苦苦挣扎，在两者间徘徊不定。今天他比较想自杀，过了一周又想去杀人。”
But there is reason to suspect that contagion is a factor, from previous research on violence. Researchers have long known that highly publicized suicides can precede “clusters” of suicides in the weeks or months afterward, in people already thinking about suicide. The likelihood of such contagion depends on the prominence of the coverage, the detail in the reports about methods, the richness of the portrayals of people affected. In similar fashion, terrorist attacks and mass killings have been exhaustively covered, Dr. Gould said.
不过从之前关于暴力的研究来看，要说凶案的恶劣影响是促使人犯案的因素也不无道理。研究人员长久以来一直知道，在高度曝光的自杀案发生的数周或数月后，不少已经有自杀念头的人会将想法付诸实行。这种影响是否会起作用，取决于报道有多引人注目、是否详述了自杀手法，以及自杀者个人是否得到详尽的描写。古尔德博士表示，恐怖袭击与大规模屠杀向来是被巨细靡遗地报道。
The vast majority of people who take their lives kill only themselves, leaving no evidence that they wanted to kill others. But experts suspect that murder-suicides are subject to contagion effects from high-profile cases, though the numbers are too small to establish that statistically. Only about 1 to 2 percent of murder-suicides target random people outside immediate family or friends, said Matthew Nock, a psychologist at Harvard.
自杀的人绝大部分只想结束自己的生命，看不出有想要杀其他人的迹象。不过专家怀疑，虽然目前的案件量少到不足以做统计验证，不过杀人后自杀者仍可能受到高曝光案件的感染效应影响。哈佛大学心理学家马修‧诺克(Matthew Nock)表示，只有1%到2%的谋杀-自杀案是对近亲好友以外的人随机下手。
“These events seem more homicide related, with suicide as part of the process, including suicide by police,” Dr. Nock said. “But you can see, with a confluence of factors, including readily available high-capacity firearms, continuous media reporting of mass killings and terror attacks, that there’s certainly fuel for contagion.”
“这类案件似乎更偏向谋杀，自杀只是犯案过程的一部分，包括利用警察来自杀，”诺克博士表示。“不过你可以看得出来，有许多因素在共同作用，增强凶案的传染性，像是随手可得的高容量武器，还有媒体对大规模屠杀与恐怖袭击的持续报道。”
One study in Germany of rampage killers — those who murder as many people as they can, without apparent motive — found that these events do not occur randomly over time. Most such attacks, between 1993 and 2000, followed a similar event by weeks. A 2015 study of school shootings in the United States had a similar finding: Attacks tended to follow similar ones within about two weeks.
德国对滥杀狂（无明确动机，但犯案时会尽其所能杀更多的人）的一项研究发现，这些案件发生的时序并非无迹可寻。大部分在1993与2000年间发生的这类攻击事件，都是在某个相似案件的几周后发生的。2015年一份关于美国校园枪击案的研究也有类似发现：攻击事件常在另一些类似事件之后约两周内发生。
Many school killers have researched the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School in Colorado, including the young man who slaughtered children and teachers at an elementary school in Sandy Hook, Conn. — an attack that, in turn, informed still another school gunman, at an Oregon community college.
许多校园杀手都研究过1999年科罗拉多州科伦拜中学的屠杀案，包括在康涅狄格州桑迪‧胡克(Sandy Hook)的一所小学屠杀师生的那个年轻人，而这桩案子又为另一名凶手带来灵感，他在俄勒冈州一所社区大学犯下枪击案。
In the weeks following a mass shooting in Canada this year, “we got three to four threats a day to duplicate that crime for more than two weeks afterward,” Dr. Cameron said. “If you’re a suicidal individual who never seriously thought of killing someone else, these mass attacks, whether terrorism or school shootings, or something like Nice, they give you ideas on site selection, on human target selection — and how to go out with a bang.”
今年，加拿大在一起大规模枪击案之后的数周内，“有超过两周的时间，我们每天都会收到三四次类似案件的威胁，”卡梅伦博士说。“如果你是有自杀倾向但从没认真想过要杀人的人，那么这些大型攻击案，不论是恐袭、校园枪击或尼斯那样的事件，都会给你带来灵感，比如如何选取作案地点与攻击目标──还有如何开那第一枪。”
Terrorist attacks, besides providing how-to ideas, may also provide political cover to angry, mentally unstable people drawn to violence — an ideological cause to justify acts of vengeance or grievance, some experts said.
有些专家也表示，恐怖袭击案除了教其他人如何上手，也可能给满腔怒火、情绪不稳又受暴力行径吸引的人提供政治掩护── 给他们出于报复或怨恨的举动加诸意识形态的正当性。
Brian Jenkins, a terrorism specialist at the RAND Corporation, referred to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, in an email about the perpetrators of recent attacks in Orlando, Nice and Germany: “ISIS’s ideology may resonate with their own anger and promises them applause and recognition. The ideology becomes a vehicle for individual discontents.”
布赖恩‧詹金斯(Brian Jenkins)是美国兰德公司(RAND Corporation)研究恐怖主义的专家，他在一封电邮中与我们讨论近来在奥兰多、尼斯、德国发生的袭击案凶手，在提到伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS）的时候表示：“ISIS的意识形态可能会与他们的愤怒产生共鸣，又向他们保证这么做能获得掌声与认可。这种意识形态就成了表达个人不满的媒介。”