I was about to give an hourlong talk to hundreds of people when one of the organizers of the event asked, "Do you get nervous when you give speeches?" My response: Who, me? No. Of course not.
一次，我正准备向几百名观众发表长达一小时的演讲，活动方的一位组织者问我：“演讲时你会紧张吗？”我回答说：谁，你是说我吗？不会啊，当然不会。
But this was a half-truth. I am a bit of a worrier, and one thing that makes me anxious is getting ready for these events: fretting over whether I've prepared the right talk, packed the right clothes or forgotten anything important, like my glasses.
不过，这种说法是半真半假。我是个挺容易着急上火的人，而在让我焦虑的众多事情中，为活动做准备就算是其中一桩：我会为各种事情心烦，比如自己是否准备了恰当的演讲稿，是否穿对了衣服，抑或有没有落下什么重要的东西，像是我的眼镜。
Anxiety is a fact of life. I've yet to meet anyone, no matter how upbeat, who has escaped anxious moments, days, even weeks. Recently I succumbed when, rushed for time just before a Thanksgiving trip, I was told the tires on my car were too worn to be driven on safely and had to be replaced.
焦虑乃人生常态。我还没遇到哪个人——不管他有多么乐观向上——已经逃离了焦虑的时刻，更不消谈几天甚至几周了。最近我就遭遇了一次焦虑大发作，就在我赶着出门度感恩节假期时，邻居对我说我的车胎磨损严重，已经影响到了驾驶安全，必须更换。
"But I have no time to do this now," I whined.
“可我现在没空换胎啊，”我发牢骚道。
"Do you have time for an accident?" my car-savvy neighbor asked.
“那你有空制造场车祸吗？”我那位很懂车的邻居问。
So, with a pounding pulse and no idea how I'd make up the lost time, I went off to get new tires. I left the car at the shop and managed to calm down during the walk home, which helped me get back to the work I needed to finish before the trip.
于是，带着一颗扑腾的心脏，以及满脑子如何把失去的时间弥补回来的问号，我飞奔出去换车胎。我将车留在修车行，在步行回家的路上设法让自己镇定下来，就这样，我将出门度假前该做完的工作及时赶完了。
It seems like such a small thing now. But everyday stresses add up, according to Tamar E. Chansky, a psychologist in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., who treats people with anxiety disorders.
现在回头看，这貌似只是一件无足轻重的小事了。但在宾夕法尼亚州普利茅斯米廷的心理学家塔马尔·E·钱斯基(Tamar E. Chansky)看来，每天遭遇的压力会日积月累。这位医生专门治疗患焦虑症的病人。
You'll be much better able to deal with a serious, unexpected challenge if you lower your daily stress levels, she said. When worry is a constant, "it takes less to tip the scales to make you feel agitated or plagued by physical symptoms, even in minor situations," she wrote in her very practical book, "Freeing Yourself From Anxiety."
钱斯基说，如果你能降低自己的日常压力水平，在处理突出其来的严峻考验时，就可以更加应对自如。在她那本非常实用的著作《从焦虑中解脱》(Freeing Yourself From Anxiety)中，她写到，当烦忧成为家常便饭时，“哪怕是在无足轻重的场合中，一点点轻微的压力也会让你焦虑不安，或者受到各种身体症状的折磨。”
When Calamities Are Real
当灾难触手可及
Of course, there are often good reasons for anxiety. Certainly, people who lost their homes and life's treasures - and sometimes loved ones - in Hurricane Sandy can hardly be faulted for worrying about their futures.
当然，人们心烦意乱往往是事出有因的。如果有人在“飓风桑迪”中痛失家园或者心爱的物品——有时，则是心爱的人——为前途忧心，恐怕也无可指摘。
But for some people, anxiety is a way of life, chronic and life-crippling, constantly leaving them awash in fears that prevent them from making moves that could enrich their lives.
但对一些人来说，焦虑成了他们的生活方式，它在持续地啮咬着他们的生命，令他们不断被恐惧冲刷，无法往前迈一步，做能令自己的生活更加充实的事情。
In an interview, Dr. Chansky said that when real calamities occur, "you will be in much better shape to cope with them if you don't entertain extraneous catastrophes."
在采访中，钱斯基医生说，当真实的灾难发生时，“如果你不去考虑那些外在的灾祸，处理问题时会更加自如。”
By "extraneous," she means the many stresses that pile up in the course of daily living that don't really deserve so much of our emotional capital - the worrying and fretting we spend on things that won't change or simply don't matter much.
所谓“外在”的灾祸，指的是在我们日常生活中堆积起来的压力，这些压力本来并不需要我们投入如此巨大的心力——为了那些根本不可能改变或者不值一提的事情，我们畏首畏尾，瞻前顾后。
"If you worry about everything, it will get in the way of what you really need to address," she explained. "The best decisions are not made when your mind is spinning out of control, racing ahead with predictions about how things are never going to get any better. Precious energy is wasted when you're always thinking about the worst-case scenarios."
她解释说：“如果什么事情你都要担心，等到你面对真正需要关注的事情时，就会被迎头拦住。在你的思绪如脱缰野马，料想事情一定会坏在自己手上时，你就根本做不出最佳的决定。如果你总是担心最坏的可能性，那么宝贵的精力就被白白浪费了。”
When faced with serious challenges, it helps to narrow them down to specific things you can do now. To my mind, Dr. Chansky's most valuable suggestion for emerging from paralyzing anxiety when faced with a monumental task is to "stay in the present - it doesn't help to be in the future.
在面对难题时，如果你着手将它细化成一个个现在就能做的事情，会好办很多。在我看来，面对艰巨的任务如何能从令人麻木的焦虑中走出来，钱斯基医生给出的一个最有用的建议是：要“活在当下——想象未来一点用也没有。”
"Take some small step today, and value each step you take. You never know which step will make a difference. This is much better than not trying to do anything."
“今天先往前走几小步，并且要珍惜你走的每一步。你并不知道究竟是哪一步起到了关键的作用。这总比什么都不做要好多了。”
Dr. Chansky told me, "If you're worrying about your work all the time, you won't get your work done." She suggested instead that people "compartmentalize." Those prone to worry should set aside a little time each day simply to fret, she said - and then put aside anxieties and spend the rest of the time getting things done. This advice could not have come at a better time for me, as I faced holiday chores, two trips in December, and five columns to write before leaving mid-month. Rather than focusing on what seemed like an impossible challenge, I took on one task at a time. Somehow it all got done.
钱斯基博士对我说：“假如你总是担心自己的工作，那工作就不可能完成了。”与其这样，不如进行“切割”。她说，那些容易发愁的人应当每天拿出一点时间，专心发自己的愁——然后就要把焦虑摆在一边，用剩下的时间专心做事。对我来说，她的这个建议时机刚刚好，因为现在我正在面对假期的种种混乱，12月份我要出两次门，在月中外出前要写出五篇专栏。与其担心这个恐怖的挑战，我还不如每次完成一个任务。不知怎的，我就把这些事情统统办妥了。
Possible Thinking
可能的思路
Many worriers think the solution is positive thinking. Dr. Chansky recommends something else: think "possible."
很多爱操心的人认为，解决之道是想法要积极乐观。而钱斯基医生推荐了另一种思路：思考“可能”的方案。
"When we are stuck with negative thinking, we feel out of options, so to exit out of that we need to be reminded of all the options we do have," she writes in her book.
“当我们陷入消极思维中时，会觉得毫无他法，所以我们需要提醒自己，面前仍有各种选择，”在书中钱斯基这样写道。
If this is not something you can do easily on your own, consult others for suggestions. During my morning walk with friends, we often discuss problems, and inevitably someone comes up with a practical solution. But even if none of their suggestions work, at least they narrow down possible courses of action and make the problem seem less forbidding. "If other people are not caught in the spin that you're in, they may have ideas for you that you wouldn't think of," Dr. Chansky said. "We often do this about small things, but when something big is going on, we hesitate to ask for advice. Yet that's when we need it most."
如果你没法靠自己轻易完成某件事，可以寻求别人的建议。在我清晨和朋友们一起健走时，我们常常讨论各种问题，最终总会有人提出可行的解决办法。而且就算朋友的建议不起作用，起码它能让你少走弯路，也会让问题看起来没那么令人生畏。钱斯基医生说：“假如旁人没有被卷进你身入的漩涡，他们也许能想到你不可能想到的主意。在碰到小事情时我们常常这么去做，但在发生重大的问题时，我们却犹豫不决，不知是否该问别人的建议，而这恰恰是我们最需要外界建议的时候。”
Dr. Chansky calls this "a community cleanup effort," and it can bring more than advice. During an especially challenging time, like dealing with a spouse's serious illness or loss of one's home, friends and family members can help with practical matters like shopping for groceries, providing meals, cleaning out the refrigerator or paying bills.
钱斯基医生称此为“社群善后工作”，而它能做的还不仅仅是提供建议。在身处艰难时期，比如伴侣患重病或失去家园时，亲友可以帮忙做些实用的事情，比如买日用品、做饭、清理冰箱或者支付账单。
"People want to help others in need - it's how the world goes around," she said. Witness the many thousands of volunteers, including students from other states on their Thanksgiving break, who prepared food and delivered clothing and equipment to the victims of Hurricane Sandy. Even the smallest favor can help buffer stress and enable people to focus productively on what they can do to improve their situation.
“大家乐于帮助有需要的人——这就是这个社会运转的方式，”她说。桑迪飓风过后，我看到成千上万的志愿者，包括很多正在休感恩节假、从别的州赶来的学生，为灾民准备食物，运送衣物。哪怕是点滴帮助也会缓减他人承受的压力，帮助对方更有效地专注做改变个人处境的事。
Another of Dr. Chansky's invaluable tips is to "let go of the rope." When feeling pressured to figure out how to fix things now, "walk away for a few minutes, but promise to come back." As with a computer that suddenly misbehaves, Dr. Chansky suggests that you "unplug and refresh," perhaps by "taking a breathing break," inhaling and exhaling calmly and intentionally.
钱斯基医生提出的另一个宝贵的建议是“松开绳子”。当你不知该如何解决问题时，“走开几分钟，不过要向自己承诺一会儿就回来。”钱斯基建议我们或许可以出去“透一口气”，平静、刻意地深呼吸，这样就能像一个突然运转不良的电脑一样，“关掉后再重新启动”。
"The more you practice calm breathing, the more it will be there for you when you need it," she wrote.
“你练习平静呼吸的次数越多，当你需要时也就越容易调动起让人镇定的能力，”她写道。
She also suggests taking a break to do something physical: "Movement shifts the moment." Take a walk or bike ride, call a friend, look through a photo album, or do some small cleaning task like clearing off your night table.
她还建议我们可以做些体力活动来透口气：运动能转移注意力。你可以散个步或骑骑车，给朋友打电话，看看影集，或者做些像是清理床头柜这样的家务活。
When you have a clear head and are feeling less overwhelmed, you'll be better able to figure out the next step.
等你感觉思路清晰了，不再不知所措，你将能更好地想清下一步的动作。