One of the special pleasures of movies and plays based on great novels is the way they lead us back to their literary roots. Playing the images and emotions from stage or screen against the ones in our head while reading the original creates a doubled experience.
观看由优秀小说改编的电影和戏剧，会给人带来一种与众不同的乐趣。它们把我们带回到这些作品的文学源头。在我们观赏电影屏幕和舞台上的表演的时候，头脑里会同时重现阅读小说时留下的图像和情感，这种对比会带给我们一种双重的享受。
Make that a triple in the case of “The Color Purple” by Alice Walker. Ms. Walker, 71, won the Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award for her novel in 1983. Two years later, the book — about the abuse and spiritual triumph of a black woman in the sharecropping American South — was adapted into a film by Steven Spielberg and featured the screen acting debuts of Whoopi Goldberg and Oprah Winfrey.
对于现年71岁的爱丽丝·沃克(Alice Walker)来说，她的《紫色》(The Color Purple)给我们带来的更是三重的享受了。沃克的这本小说描写了美国南部佃农时期的一个黑人妇女所遭受的种种虐待和她战胜生活的心路历程，在1983年获得普利策奖和国家图书奖。两年后，史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)将它改编成了电影。乌比·戈德堡(Whoopi Goldberg)和奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)都在这部影片中首次亮相。
Twenty years later, the novel became a Tony Award-winning musical, which is now enjoying a Broadway revival and rapturous reviews. Ben Brantley, the chief drama critic for The New York Times, called it “miraculous” and “a glory to behold.”
二十年以后，这部小说又被改编为音乐剧，并荣获一项托尼奖(Tony Award)。它目前正在百老汇重演，反响强烈。纽约时报的首席戏剧评论家本·布兰特利(Ben Brantley)称它为“不可思议”、是“一场壮丽的奇景”。
The acclaimed Irish writer Colm Toibin (pronounced COL-um toe-BEAN), 60, is enjoying a parallel success with his novel “Brooklyn,” about a naïve Irish girl who immigrates to the United States in the 1950s. The film adaptation was released in November to stellar reviews for its moving subtlety. Last week, it received three Academy Award nominations, including one for best picture, and has returned Mr. Toibin’s 2009 novel to the best-seller lists.
著名爱尔兰作家科尔姆·托宾(Colm Toibin)年届60，他的小说《布鲁克林》(Brooklyn)目前也正享受着同样的成功。这本小说讲述了上世纪50年代一个天真无邪的爱尔兰女孩移民到美国的故事。在它的基础上改编的电影在十一月发行，以其动人的微妙笔触赢得了出色的影评。上周，这部电影获得了包括最佳影片在内的三项奥斯卡奖提名。这部写于2009年的小说因此重新登上畅销书排行榜。
The writers met for lunch recently at Chez Panisse, the legendary farm-to-table restaurant run by the chef Alice Waters in Berkeley, Calif., not far from where they each wrote much of their books. Over polentina soup and fried sole (for Ms. Walker) and butter lettuce salad and tagliatelle with mushroom ragù (for Mr. Toibin), followed by a moist almond cake with Chantilly cream for dessert, the pair discussed the afterlives of their novels, giving voices to characters who haven’t historically enjoyed them, and their personal quests to find a home in the world.
这两个作家在潘尼斯之家(Chez Panisse)共进午餐。潘尼斯之家是加州伯克利著名的“农场到餐桌”(farm to table)餐馆（近年来时兴的一种健康理念餐馆，所有食材都是从附近的农场直接运到餐厅，以保证食物新鲜美味——译注）由厨师爱丽丝·瓦特斯(Alice Waters)经营。餐馆所在地距离他们二人早期小说创作之地均为不远。沃克点了一份玉米羹和炸板鱼，托宾则点了奶油生菜沙拉和蘑菇意面，之后他们以湿润的椰子奶油杏仁饼作为餐后甜点。在就餐过程中，他们谈起了小说出版后的种种往事，讨论了如何赋予那些过去不敢开口的人们一个声音，也谈到了他们自己在这个世界上寻找家园的探索之旅。
Philip Galanes: So were you thrilled when Hollywood came calling?
菲利普·加兰：好莱坞找上门来的时候，你有没有觉得很兴奋？
Alice Walker: Not at all! I put them off. I finally had some balance in my life.
沃克：一点儿也没有！我对他们避之不及。好不容易才有了一点自己的生活。
PG: And a best seller on your hands.
菲利普·加兰：更别说你手里还有一部畅销书。
AW: I’d just said to my partner and daughter, “I’m all yours.” Then Steven [Spielberg] and Quincy [Jones] came to see me. I saw how patiently Steven had read the book and how it moved him. We all hope that we write for the world, not just that little corner that’s like us. But for someone like Steven — so unlike me and everyone in the story — to feel what I was offering, that was unusual. And Quincy understood the culture immediately. He said, “Celie is the blues.” Perfect! I felt safe in their hands.
沃克：我刚刚才对我的丈夫和女儿说：“我可以全心全意和你们在一起了。”紧接着史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格和昆西·琼斯(Quincy Jones)就找上门来了。我留意到史蒂文非常耐心地读完了我的书，而且真心被它打动了。每个作家都会希望自己写的书能被全世界人喜爱，而不是局限在和自己一样的一个小圈子里。可是，像史蒂文这样的人——他和我自己或者我小说中的人物毫无共性——这么一个人竟然会对我的作品有所感悟，这的确很不一般。昆西更是对小说的文化背景了然于心。他说：“西丽（Celie，《紫色》的女主人公）就像是一首蓝调之歌。”这简直太完美了。由他们来将我的小说改编成电影，我感觉十分安心。
Colm Toibin: I was at a book fair in New York, which can be oddly social. I was chatting with a dealer friend from London, and he introduced me to this woman from New Zealand who had come specifically to meet me. But she didn’t know I was me until I had walked away. So she chased after me and said, “My name is Finola Dwyer.” You know that moment when you look at someone and think, “I like you”?
托宾：对我来说这事发生在纽约一个书展上。书展也是很有意思的一种社交场所。当时我在和一个伦敦来的书商朋友聊天，他把一位女士介绍给我。这位女士专程从新西兰过来见我，但当时却不知道我就是她要找的人。我走开后她才得知，于是在我身后追着喊：“我的名字是分诺拉·德维尔(Finola Dwyer)。”你有没有过这种感觉，在你看着一个人的一瞬间你会想：“我喜欢这个人”？
AW: I sure do.
沃克：有，我绝对知道这种感觉。
CT: She’d made [the film] “An Education” with Carey Mulligan, which I liked very much. Nick Hornby wrote the screenplay. So I asked, “If I do this, would Nick write the screenplay?” I hadn’t thought of it before that minute, but I knew if Nick wrote it, it would work.
托宾：她制作的那部由凯瑞·穆里根(Carey Mulligan)主演的《成长教育》(An Education)是我很喜欢的一个片子。它是由尼克·宏比(Nick Hornby)执笔改编的。我当时问她：“如果我同意把这本书改成电影，能否由尼克来执笔？”其实在那之前我从未想过这事，可是我知道如果是尼克改编的话，应该没问题。
PG: You didn’t want to write it yourself?
菲利普·加兰：你没有想过自己执笔吗？
CT: Not at all. But I knew I wanted a novelist to write it.
托宾：从来都没有。不过我知道我想要个小说家来做这件事情。
AW: They asked me to write the screenplay for the movie. And I wrote one from my bed. I had a terrible case of Lyme disease. But I knew I wasn’t well enough to work on it and go down to L.A. and raise my child and make a living, so they got someone else, who was always at my door: “What does this mean? What does that mean?” But it was O.K. because it had to be.
沃克：我那部电影他们开始是找我写剧本来着。当时我患了很严重的莱姆病。我在病床上完成了一个初稿，但是我的身体状况不允许我很好的完成这项工作，更别提要到洛杉矶来一边抚养孩子一边工作了。所以他们又找了一个人，他总是不断地问我各种问题：“这是什么意思？那又是什么意思？”不过没关系，这是唯一可行的办法。
CT: And I soon realized that nobody wanted me around. Nick was doing it. He didn’t ask any questions, never even got in touch. And I thought that was perfectly reasonable.
托宾：我不一样。我很快就发现他们根本不需要我。尼克全权包揽了一切。他一个问题也没有问过我，从未和我有过任何联系。我觉得这也挺好。
PG: You didn’t feel protective?
菲利普·加兰：你不觉得不能让他们乱改你的作品吗？
CT: It was the only way it could work. He took the central spine of the novel — the romantic story and the immigration, the two things that really matter — and left other things off to the side. But he wasn’t trying to tell a new story. He was faithful to the book within the constraints of film.
托宾：这是当时唯一可行的途径。尼克保留了小说的重点——移民和爱情故事，这是两个最重要的事情。其他的细节他没有特别在意，但他也没有试图重写一个完全不同的故事。他是在电影的局限内尽力忠实于小说原作。
PG: And both movies turned out so well. But let’s turn to the bizarre reception for “The Color Purple” film. Amid strong reviews and box office came furious attacks — full hours on “Phil Donahue” and editorials and talk shows — about how the story of this one black woman was a broadsided attack on black men. Why, then, did you agree to the Broadway adaptation?
菲利普·加兰：而结果是这两部电影都取得了巨大的成功。让我们再谈谈《紫色》所收到的不一般的公众反应吧。虽然影评如潮，票房飙飞，这部电影同时也受到了强烈的攻击——各种电视谈话节目，包括整整一小时的“菲尔·多纳休”(Phil Donahue)，以及报刊社论，都长篇累牍地攻击这部电影以一个黑人妇女的故事为幌子，对黑人男性进行攻击。那么，在这种情况下，你为什么还会同意再把这部小说搬上百老汇？
AW: I am remarkably stubborn. And I believe in the truth. So, once I got through the Lyme disease period, I thought adding music to the story might be good. When people are fiercely opposed to things politically, music can help reach them, soften them. This story is one that we need, as a kind of medicine. We are a sick culture, and I believe that art can help.
沃克：我是一个非常固执的人，对事实真相坚信不疑。从莱姆病中恢复以后，我开始想，如果能给这个故事配上一些音乐应该是个好主意。有时一件事情出于政治的原因会遇到强烈的反对，而音乐能够起到软化和触动人的心灵的作用。我们的社会需要这么一个故事。它就像是一剂苦口的良药。我相信艺术能够帮助治愈我们这个病态的社会文化。
PG: But the story is also personal. You are the eighth child of a sharecropper — not so different from your heroine.
菲利普·加兰：这个故事里也有很多你个人的影子。你是佃农家里的第八个孩子——和小说里的女主人公没有多大差别。
AW: Absolutely. I came through a very difficult life for a reason. I had seven brothers and sisters, and not one of them became the person they should have been — because of poverty, because of racism, because of poor diet and drugs, because of the war. The boys went off to the Army.
沃克：一点没错。我的一生和她不同，这不是无缘无故的。我有七个哥哥姐姐。因为贫穷、种族歧视、不健康的饮食和毒品、还有战争，他们没有一个得到了他们所应得的生活。男孩子全都当了兵。
PG: I remember my shock at first reading “Purple.” I thought, “My God, sharecropping was just slavery, Part 2.”
菲利普·加兰：我还记得我最初读《紫色》这本书时的震惊。我当时想：“天啊，佃农制度简直就是第二个奴隶制嘛。”
AW: It was slavery where you could work for many white men, instead of one, and no health benefits. At least in slavery, the owners tried to keep you healthy enough to work. But with sharecroppers, they didn’t even bother. And the thing to remember is that all history is current. The last time I was in Africa, I saw a plantation overseer getting on a small plane with a bullwhip, on his way to someplace growing cotton. All these things are continuing somewhere. There is no rest.
沃克：它就是奴隶制。只不过你不属于一个白人主人，而是得为好几个白人干活。而且还没有健康福利。在奴隶制里，你的主人会尽量让你保持身体健康，这样你就能继续为他干活。可是在佃农制下，没人会在乎你的身体。要记住，所有历史上的这些事情现在还正在上演。上次我去非洲，看到一个种植园主手执皮鞭登上飞机，正准备飞到哪个棉花生产地去。这些事情仍然在世界上的某些角落持续着，并没有销声匿迹。
CT: When I was writing “Brooklyn,” Ireland had become very prosperous. And people were arriving there, but Ireland wasn’t ready for it. Now the history is so clear that we Irish went to many countries and made ourselves at home. You’d think that when the Poles or Nigerians or Chinese arrived in Ireland, the Irish would be open with welcome. But it wasn’t true.
托宾：我写《布鲁克林》这本书的时候，爱尔兰已经变得十分繁荣。很多人开始到这个国家来，可是爱尔兰人却尚未准备好。其实过去历史上爱尔兰人走遍了许多国家，把它们当做了自己的家园。照理说当波兰人、尼日利亚人或者中国人到爱尔兰来的时候，我们应该张开臂膀欢迎才是。可是我们却没有这样做。
PG: Both of you are pretty dedicated nomads.
菲利普·加兰：你们两个可以都算是四海为家的人。
AW: I am a devout wanderer.
沃克：我是个虔诚的流浪者。
PG: And so are the heroines in your novels, searching for a safe home in the world. Alice’s Celie is raped and beaten down by men in positions of trust, and Colm’s Eilis is torn by homesickness, always longing for the place she isn’t. Is that search universal?
菲利普·加兰：你们书中的主角也是一样，一直在这个世界上寻找一个平安的家园。爱丽丝的西丽被她所应该信任的人强暴和虐待，科尔姆的艾丽丝则一直被思乡之情所折磨，渴望着那个她所无法企及的故乡。这种不断的寻找是不是一种共通的情感呢？
AW: Definitely. I sometimes think it’s having grown up as the daughter of sharecroppers. That pattern of having to move from one shack to another — after the family has been exploited for its labor. It’s in the rhythm of my being. Now, I have places here and places there. I go from one to the other. I want to feel that the planet is my home, but I know there are parts of the planet where I’m really not wanted, as Colm was saying.
沃克：的确。我曾想，也许这和我作为一个佃农女儿长大的经历有关。不停的迁移是佃农家庭的一个模式，在他们所可以付出的劳动被剥夺殆尽之后，他们就不得不搬到下一个地方去。这种不断移动的节奏已经写在了我的生命中。我从一个地方搬到另一个地方，在不同的地方停留。我希望我能说地球就是我的家。可是我知道，地球上并非所有的地方都会欢迎我的到来，就像科尔姆说的那样。
CT: I had to be careful not to preach about that in the book, just tell the story. But I hope that when you see the young Lithuanian girl at the cash register in the supermarket looking really sad one day, you know it’s for good reason: She’s missing home. I hoped the book might contribute to that public debate.
托宾：我刻意不在小说中宣扬这件事情，而只是讲述一个故事。但是我希望，如果你有一天在超市看到收款台那个立陶宛女孩看上去不太快活的话，你知道这是有原因的：她在思念她的家乡。我希望至少这本书会让世人明白这一点。
PG: How much of your own lives contributed to these coming-of-age novels? Colm, you grew up in a rural village in Ireland, like your heroine. Your mother was also a widow.
菲利普·加兰：这两本书描写的都是孩子成长为人的故事。你们自己的生活对这些故事有什么样的影响呢？科尔姆，和你的小说主人公一样，你也是在爱尔兰一个乡下的村庄里长大。而你的母亲也是一个寡妇。
CT: My father died when I was 12. The town had about 6,000 people. And over several months, a lot of them came to our house. They came every night. There was no telephone, so you never knew who was coming. Just a knock on the door. My job was to answer it and lead the people into the house. They would sit and have tea, and I’d watch like a hawk. They’d say how sorry they were at the beginning and the end, but the middle was something else — ordinary stories about things that happened in town, you know?
托宾：我12岁的时候父亲就去世了。我长大的那个小镇上有6000人。父亲去世的头几个月里，我家里来了很多人。每天晚上都有人来。那时候还没有电话，所以你也不知道谁会来，但是你会听到有人敲门。我的任务就是去开门，把他们领进屋来。他们会坐一会儿，喝喝茶，而我则像一头小鹰一样在一边看着。在刚到和快走的时候，他们会表示他们的哀悼，但是在中间他们却会谈些别的事——村里发生的大大小小的事情。你明白吗？
AW: I can see it perfectly.
沃克：我完全明白。
CT: One night, a woman came and talked on and on about her daughter having gone to Brooklyn. I can see her to this day: her scarves and her hat. Brooklyn, Brooklyn, Brooklyn. And after she left, somebody said that a man in Brooklyn had fallen so in love with the daughter — “mad about her,” as my mother would have said — that he wouldn’t let her come back to Ireland unless she married him first. That’s all I knew. I had the story for 40 years. And I wrote it after a semester teaching in Austin, Tex., where I’d never felt as far away from home in my life. And when I went home, I really felt it. I thought, “I know what home is.” I found a way to tell the story because those feelings were so urgent.
托宾：有一天晚上，到我家来的人里有一个女人一直在谈她的女儿，说她去了布鲁克林。我直到今天还能看到她的样子：她戴的头巾和帽子。她就这样没完没了的说，布鲁克林、布鲁克林、布鲁克林。她走了以后，有人告诉我们，一个布鲁克林的男人爱上了那个女儿——用我妈妈的话说：“被她迷住了”——他说除非她和他结婚，否则他就不放她回爱尔兰。这就是我所知道的一切。这个故事埋在我的心底整整40年。我终于提笔写下这个故事的时候，正在德克萨斯奥斯汀教书，刚刚结束了一个学期的教学，心里觉得从未有过的离家如此之遥。那时我回到家里，忽然深切地感受到了那种思乡之情。我想：“我知道家是一种什么样的感觉。”正因为那种感觉如此的深重而迫切，才促使我写下了这个故事。
AW: In my case, it was the terrible things I’d heard about my grandfathers, both of them, when I was 8 or 9 years old. They’d been so mean when they were young. They were fine by the time I knew them, decades later. It was an enormous puzzle: What happens to people?
沃克：对我来说，促使我写下这部小说的契机是我八九岁时听到的关于我祖父和外祖父的一些可怕的事情。他们年轻的时候非常可怕。几十年以后，当我认识他们的时候，他们都是很好的人。对我来说那是个巨大的谜团：人怎么会变得那么多呢？
PG: And it goes straight to the Phil Donahue craziness about your male characters, no?
菲利普·加兰：这正和菲尔·多纳休对你书中男性人物的批评有密切的联系，不是吗？
AW: Of course. Now I know about the hardships that my father, my grandfather, all of the black men went through. The women too, of course, but I was fascinated by the men. They were totally oppressed by the culture. Lynchings were frequent. I used to wonder why my father always had this look when he went off to town that said, I might not be back. He had to behave in this servile way. And if the white people were drunk, they would abuse him anyway.
沃克：当然。现在我了解了我的父亲、祖父，以及所有男性黑人所不得不经历的艰辛的经历。当然女性也是一样，但是那些男性黑人的经历更吸引我。他们深受社会文化的重重压迫，私刑更是屡见不鲜。我曾经不明白，为什么我爸爸进城的时候总是带着一种“我也许会回不来了”的表情。他必须俯首低头，然而如果白人主人喝醉了的话，他还是会被他们虐待。
PG: And that was their model for treating women?
菲利普·加兰：所以他们就学会了这样对待他们的女人吗？
AW: Enslavement culture was their only model for 300 years. They would be looking at the behavior of brutal white overseers. Did you realize that they used to behead people in our country? They put heads on spikes and lined the rivers to keep enslaved people in complete terror. But it was only later that I knew this. My parents hadn’t permitted me to understand it as a child; they never talked about it.
沃克：奴役文化是300年来他们所可以参照的唯一样本。他们所看到的都是那些残酷的白人监工们的行为。你可知道，过去在咱们国家里，他们曾经会把人的脑袋直接砍下来？他们会把人头插在柱子上，沿河摆成一排，用来震慑他们所奴役的人。我到后来才知道这些事情。小的时候我的父母不想让我了解这些，他们从不谈论这些事情。
CT: Both of our country’s histories are filled with silence.
托宾：我们两国过去的历史里都充满了这样的无声静寂。
PG: And so are your novels. Colm’s line: “The one thing the Lacy women could not do is say out loud what they were thinking.” And Alice’s: “Don’t you never tell nobody but God. It would kill your Mammy.”
菲利普·加兰：你们的小说里也充满了这种例子。科尔姆的书里有这样一句话：“如果说有一件事莱西女人们不会做的，那就是把她们心中所想大声说出来。”爱丽丝的书中也有：“除了上帝，对谁也不要说。不然你妈妈会死的。”
CT: As a novelist, this is really interesting. Because what a novel can do is show the distance between what’s being said and what’s being felt. Then the reader starts to see: “Oh, my God, they’re not talking about it, but I know what they’re thinking.” It’s very hard to do in a play or film. But in a novel, you can literally show the two things beside each other. And the drama is the distance between what’s to be spoken of and what’s not to be mentioned again.
托宾：对于一个小说家来说这是一件很有意思的事。小说可以让人看到人所说和所想之间的距离。读者能够开始明白：“啊，老天爷，虽然他们没有说出来，可是我知道他们是怎么想的。”这在电影或者戏剧里就难得多了。小说允许你把所说和所想都清清楚楚地摆在读者面前，让读者看到什么能说，什么不能说，这之间的鸿沟便充满了戏剧性。
PG: When your father was ill, your mother left you, as a little boy, with relatives for a long stretch. Did you ever talk about that with her, or would that be one of the moments you’re talking about?
菲利普·加兰：你父亲病重的时候你还很小，你母亲把你寄放在亲戚家很长时间。你后来和妈妈谈过这事吗？还是这也属于你刚刚说到的不能说的范围？
CT: I never did. Does this happen to you when you’re working, Alice? You think you’re making something up, and suddenly, you realize: Oh no, here it comes again: the abandonment. It’s coming up all over again.
托宾：我从来没和她谈过这事。爱丽丝，你工作的时候有过这种感觉吗？你正在虚构一个细节，忽然你觉得，啊，那种被抛弃的感觉席卷而来，好像你又重新经历了一遍被抛弃时的情感。
AW: All the time. I’ve decided to work with it until I don’t need it anymore. No repression, no regret. Here it is. What can I make of it this time?
沃克：太经常了。我的决定是直面它，直到自己可以放开。不再压抑自己，不再悔恨过去。事情已经发生了。我能从这个经历中获得什么呢？
PG: Like the story of your grandfather, shooting at your grandmother with a rifle. …
菲利普·加兰：就像你祖父用枪朝你祖母射击的那个故事…
AW: And only missing because he was dead drunk. They told that as a funny story. Can you believe it? I’m sure that’s why my brother shot me in the eye when I was 8.
沃克：因为他当时喝得太醉了，所以才没打中她。他们后来把那件事当成个笑话讲，你能相信吗？我敢肯定，哥哥在我8岁时用枪打到我的眼睛，一定是受此事影响。
PG: How old was he?
菲利普·加兰：那时他多大？
AW: Ten. Poor thing. But everything that happens to us teaches us, if we are open to it. And eventually life will open you. What I learned from that moment in refusing to tell on him. …
沃克：10岁。可怜的哥哥。但是，如果我们敞开自己心灵的大门，我们可以从所有发生在自己身上的事学到很多东西。这样，渐渐地，生活的大门就会向我们打开。我那时没有打哥哥的小报告，在那个时刻我就学到了很多东西。
PG: What?!
菲利普·加兰：等一下，你说什么？
AW: No, no, no. I was loyal. He would have been beaten by my parents if I’d told. So, my other brother and I conferred and came up with another story. And what I learned from that moment has served me so much better than what happened to my brother. I don’t think he ever cared, and his life was like that. He died, later, of cocaine and anger and frustration. He never apologized, so I’ve had to work with it forever. But I try not to cling to the things that are devastating.
沃克：你不明白。这是一种兄妹之间的忠诚。如果我把他用枪射我的事情告诉父母，那他一定会被他们揍残了。所以，我和另一个哥哥商量，编了一个故事。我从那件事情里学到了很多，对我日后的生活大有益处。我的哥哥则不然，我想他从来都没把这事当回事，他的整个人生就是这样度过的。后来他死了，死于可卡因，死的时候充满了对生活的愤怒和挫败感。他从来也没有为这件事情向我道过歉，我自始至终必须自己面对它。但是，我努力不让自己执着于那些令人痛苦的事情。
PG: What do you cling to instead?
菲利普·加兰：那么你执着于什么呢？
AW: There was a tree growing out beyond the porch. I was lying in bed. And as I gradually lost sight in that eye, the last thing I saw was that tree. And I love trees.
沃克：在我家院子外面有一棵大树。当时我躺在床上，那只被打中的眼睛视力逐渐丧失。我最后看到的就是那棵树。我很爱树木。
CT: How beautiful is that?
托宾：这是多么美好的一幅画面呀。