Breast cancer is not always pink.
乳腺癌并不总是粉色的。
That is the message of a provocative new photography series featuring the faces, and scars, of men with breast cancer. The photos, by the New York-based fashion photographer David Jay, are part of his continuing Scar Project, a series of mostly black-and-white portraits that capture the devastation of breast cancer.
最近出现了一组非常引人注目的摄影作品，拍摄的是乳腺癌男性患者的面孔和手术伤疤，以上这句话便是这组图片想要传递的信息。图片由纽约时尚摄影师大卫·杰伊(David Jay)拍摄，是他仍在继续进行的“伤痕项目”的一部分，这个系列以黑白肖像照为主，捕捉乳腺癌给人们带来的伤害。
The vast majority of the photos in that project are of young women, shown topless with scars where their breasts used to be. The pictures, which are both shocking and beautiful, are featured in a traveling exhibition that will be on display next month in Toronto.
这个项目的绝大部分照片拍摄的是年轻女性，表现的是在脱掉上衣后她们的伤疤，而在伤疤原有的位置本应是她们的乳房。这组作品既令人震惊又十分美丽，下月将在多伦多进行巡展。
But most visitors to the Scar Project find the photos on the Internet, where they have been viewed by millions of people. One of those people is Oliver Bogler, a cancer biologist in Houston who found out that he had breast cancer 18 months ago after noticing a lump in his chest.
不过大部分接触到“伤痕项目”的人，是通过网络找到了这些图片，目前已有数百万人观赏。其中一位观众是奥利佛·伯格勒(Oliver Bogler)，这位住在休斯敦的癌症生物学家发现胸部出现了一个肿块，18个月前确诊患乳腺癌。
As in a woman’s breast, the duct cells in a man’s breast can undergo cancerous changes fueled by hormones that influence the growth of cells. It is not clear why some men get breast cancer while most do not, but risk factors include a family history of breast cancer, inherited gene mutations, radiation exposure, extended occupational exposure to certain chemicals or intense heat, obesity, liver disease, alcoholism, and other cancer treatments.
跟女性的乳房一样，男性乳房中的乳腺导管细胞同样会因影响细胞生长的荷尔蒙诱发而出现癌变。现在尚不清楚为什么一些男性得了乳腺癌，而绝大多数没有得，不过男性得乳腺癌的风险因素包括家庭乳腺癌史、遗传性基因突变、辐射暴露、职业中大量接触特定化学制品或酷热、肥胖、肝病、酗酒，或者曾接受其他癌症治疗。
All of these factors can influence the level of hormones in a man’s body and potentially spur breast cancer. That said, many men who develop breast cancer do not have any of these risk factors.
上述各种因素都可以影响男性体内的荷尔蒙水平，并存在激发乳腺癌的可能。不过也有很多得了乳腺癌的男性事实上并不存在这类风险因素。
Fewer than 1 percent of breast cancers are diagnosed in men, but that is little comfort to the 2,400 men a year who learn they have the disease. For Dr. Bogler, 47, the diagnosis was particularly shocking because his wife had learned five years earlier that she had breast cancer.
在所有乳腺癌的确诊病例中，不到1%的患者为男性，可是对于每年确诊患此病的2400位男性来说，这个比例没法安慰到他们。对于47岁的伯格勒博士来说，诊断尤其令他震惊，因为他的妻子也曾在5年前确诊患乳腺癌。
“I struggled with the huge coincidence,” Dr. Bogler said. “We were both diagnosed when we were 46. It seemed a bit unlikely. I couldn’t imagine having this conversation with her, either: ‘Honey, I think I have what you have.’ ”
“这个巨大的巧合让我实在吃不消，”伯格勒说：“我们同样是在46岁这年确诊得了癌症，看起来简直不像真的。我也没法想象自己要跟她这样说：‘亲爱的，我得了你曾得过的病。’”
Like many cancer patients, Dr. Bogler found himself spending time online in hopes of learning more about his disease. He stumbled across the Scar Project and asked Mr. Jay if he would consider including men in the series. As a result, the Male Scar Project was created.
和很多癌症病人一样，伯格勒在网上泡了很久，希望能找到有关他的病更多的信息。他无意中发现了“伤痕项目”，便去问杰伊，他是否可以考虑在这个系列中拍摄男性病人的照片。于是杰伊开创了“男性伤痕项目”。
The photo of Dr. Bogler shows him next to a radiation machine, his chest covered with marker lines used to guide the radiation beam.
伯格勒的照片拍的是他站在放疗仪器旁边，他的胸部用记号笔画了线，用来引导放疗束。
The photos of men with breast cancer are admittedly less jarring than those of women. One reason may be that it is less surprising to see a shirtless man, and the absence of his breast and nipple is not as immediately noticeable. But the portraits of the men are still haunting and show, in a more subtle way, the spiritual ravages of cancer.
不可否认的是，患乳腺癌的男性照片没有女性的那么令人震惊。其中一个原因可能在于看到不着上装的男人，大家不会感到十分意外，也不会立马注意到他被切除的乳房和乳头。但这组男性肖像仍然让人难以忘怀，它以一种更为微妙的方式表明了癌症造成的精神摧残。
The photos are also similar in that they capture both the vulnerability and the strength of breast cancer patients, regardless of their sex.
无论性别，照片的相似之处还在于它们都捕捉到了乳腺癌病人的脆弱与力量。
One of the subjects, William Becker, of Bridgeport, Conn., said he had wanted to be photographed to raise awareness among men who may be ignoring a lump, not realizing it could be breast cancer.
其中一位拍摄对象是家住康涅狄格州布里奇波特的威廉·贝克(William Becker)，他说他希望通过拍摄照片，让男人们意识到他们有可能会忽略了身上的肿块，误以为男人不可能患乳腺癌。
“I was dealing with a lot of health issues that could have been avoided had I done something sooner about the lump that I had found on my chest,” Mr. Becker said. “No man should be going through what I was enduring.”
“如果我早点对自己在胸部发现的这个肿块采取措施，就不会要被迫处理那么多后续治疗问题了，”贝克说：“没有哪个人应当经历我的遭遇。”
Mr. Becker said he felt the photo captured his experience better than words could.
贝克还说，照片在捕捉他的个人体验时，远甚于文字。
“The photo is very striking,” he said. “It gives you a sense of fear, in that there is this man with a scar on his chest and burn marks surrounding it from the radiation treatment — a kind of ‘don’t let this happen to you’ image.”
“照片十分惊人，”他说：“它让人体会到一种恐惧感，照片上这个胸口有伤痛，旁边围着一圈放疗留下的烧痕的男人，他的形象会让你觉得，‘这种事情万万不能让我碰到。’”
Dr. Bogler worked with Mr. Jay to include men in the Scar Project because he felt that more awareness was needed about the male experience with the disease. He also believes that more research into male breast cancer could help unlock new knowledge about the disease for both men and women.
伯格勒博士与杰伊合作，邀请男性参与“伤痕项目”，是因为他觉得人们有必要提高对男性乳腺癌病人遭遇的意识。他也认为，对男性乳腺癌投入更多研究，将使男女两性患者对该病取得更多了解。
Dr. Bogler added that while ovarian, uterine, prostate and testicular cancers are inherently gender-specific, breast cancer is no more gender-specific than lung or colon cancer.
伯格勒还补充说，虽然卵巢癌、子宫癌、前列腺癌和睾丸癌在遗传上限定于单一性别，但乳腺癌跟肺癌或结肠癌一样，都并非局限于一个性别。