There are award-winning presidential photographs — though not lately — and sometimes there are award-winning photographs taken by presidents.
有些关于总统的照片获了奖——虽然近期没有——有时总统拍摄的照片也能获奖。
President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who was handy with a camera, liked to turn the tables on the press pack, shooting the shooters as they shot him. In 1955, the White House News Photographers Association even honored him at its annual black-tie dinner, presenting him with an “Executive Class” trophy for his image of them in action, weapons loaded and pointed. It is an image of hunters in their natural habitat, pursuing their prey. His acceptance speech, if he made one, went unrecorded in The Times.
擅长把玩相机的德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔总统(Dwight D. Eisenhower)喜欢与媒体调换角色，在摄影师给他拍照的同时，也把镜头对准他们。1955年，白宫新闻摄影师协会(White House News Photographers Association)甚至还在其年度正式晚宴中对他进行了嘉奖。因为艾森豪威尔给摄影师们拍的摆好机器、瞄准目标的工作照片，协会给他颁发了“行政类别”奖。照片中的摄影师们就像身处其天然领地、正在追捕猎物的猎人。《纽约时报》没有关于艾森豪威尔获奖感言的记录——假如他发表过感言的话。
The association’s dinner this year falls on May 10.
协会今年的晚宴于5月10日举行。
President Eisenhower earned the right to want to get even with the press photographers. In an interview for the Library of Congress, the New York Times presidential photographer George Tames, who also won an honor that night, recalled a trick the press corps learned to play on Ike to get him to make faces.
艾森豪威尔有理由产生报复那些媒体摄影师的想法。在为国会图书馆(Library of Congress)所做的采访中，《纽约时报》的总统摄影师乔治·塔梅斯(George Tames)——他那晚也获得了一个奖项——回忆了媒体用来让艾克（Ike，艾森豪威尔的绰号——译注）做出各种表情的小窍门。
“We used to laugh at Eisenhower for not being able to hear in one ear very well,” Tames, who died in 1994, recalled. “We caught on early and we used to get some of those great expressions on his face by asking him to do something. I’d say, ‘Mr. President would you do ba de ba do ba do?’ And he’d say ‘Hah?’ Then he’d cock his head and open his eyes and just tilt.”That year, Eisenhower presented Tames with an award for his shot of the president getting out of a Jeep. Tames, in turn, took a picture of Ike’s winning photograph — perhaps an act of photographic jujitsu, restoring control of the camera to the press corps.
“我们曾经笑话艾森豪威尔有只耳朵的听力不太好，”已于1994年过世的塔梅斯生前回忆道。“我们很早就掌握了这个办法，经常要求他做一些事情来获得有趣的表情。我会说，‘总统先生，你能吧嗒吧嗒吧嗒吗？’他会问‘什么？’然后昂起头，睁大双眼，头侧向一边。”那一年，艾森豪威尔亲自给塔梅斯颁了奖，获奖作品是一张他跳下吉普车的照片。然后，塔梅斯又给艾克的获奖作品拍了张照片——这或许是一种摄影战术，使相机的控制权重新回到了媒体手中。
It was not the last time the photographers honored a sitting president. In 1971, when Tames was president of the association, he arranged for Richard M. Nixon to photograph the surviving group of the association’s original members and created a “President’s Class” award category for him.
这并不是协会最后一次褒奖在任总统。1971年，塔梅斯是协会主席，他当时安排理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)给协会仍然健在的创始成员拍照，并因此给他创立了一个“总统类别“奖。
Nixon took the picture but skipped the annual dinner, despite promises to attend. He never got his plaque, his gold-plated news photographer’s pass or the engraved, 18-karat gold Tiffany cuff links that Tames had made for the occasion. As Tames told the Library of Congress: “I figure if that bugger wants them, he can come to my house and get them. I’ll present them to him right here in my living room, but I’m not going to deliver them to him!”
尼克松拍了照片，但却未能遵照承诺参加年度晚宴。他没有去领奖牌、镀金的新闻摄影师证书，以及塔梅斯专为这一时刻定制的18K黄金雕花蒂芙尼(Tiffany)袖扣。塔梅斯告诉国会图书馆：“我想，如果那家伙想得到这些东西，他可以来我家拿。我会在客厅里把东西交给他，但我是不会专给他送过去的！”
Eisenhower, presumably, was more appreciative. He chose two of Tames’s photographs for official portraits, while a third appeared on a six-cent Eisenhower stamp. And he let the mob photograph him at his farm in Gettysburg, Pa., the day he took his award-winning shot.
大概，艾森豪威尔更为赏识这一切。他选择了塔梅斯拍摄的两张照片作为官方肖像，还有一张则出现在了6美分的艾森豪威尔邮票上。在他拍摄那张获奖图片的当天，他让这帮摄影师进入他在宾夕法尼亚州葛底斯堡的农场拍照。
They captured him taking pictures, of course.
当然，他们捕捉到了艾森豪威尔拍摄照片的瞬间。