He threw away tax documents, got a ticket for trying to pass an ambulance and bought stock in companies that were obviously in trouble. Once a good cook, he burned every pot in the house. He became withdrawn and silent, and no longer spoke to his wife over dinner. That same failure to communicate got him fired from his job at a consulting firm.
他将报税文件随手扔走，因为试图超一辆救护车而吃了罚单，还购买显然出了问题的公司的股票。他过去做饭很拿手，而现在他把家里的每一口锅都烧坏了。他变得孤僻、沉默，吃饭时不再跟妻子说话。同样是因为沟通出了问题，他被工作的咨询公司解雇了。
By 2006, Michael French — a smart, good-natured, hardworking man — had become someone his wife, Ruth, felt she hardly knew. Infuriated, she considered divorce.
到了2006年，迈克尔·弗兰奇(Michael French)，一个原本聪明、和善、勤奋的男人，活脱脱变成了他妻子鲁丝(Ruth)眼中的陌生人。她恼羞成怒，想到要离婚。
But in 2007, she found out what was wrong.
但在2007年，她发现了症结所在。
“I cried,” Mrs. French said. “I can’t tell you how much I cried, and how much I apologized to him for every perceived wrong or misunderstanding.”
“我痛哭流涕，”弗兰奇女士说，“我都没法告诉你我哭了多少回，有多少次我为自己的错误和误解向他道歉。”
Mr. French, now 71, has frontotemporal dementia — a little-known, poorly understood and frequently misdiagnosed group of brain diseases that eat away at personality and language. Although it was first recognized more than 100 years ago, there is still no cure or treatment, and patients survive an average of only eight years after the diagnosis.
现年71岁的迈克尔·弗兰奇患上的是额颞叶痴呆(frontotemporal dementia)——一种人们知之甚少、尚未充分掌握、而且常常被误诊的脑病，它会蚕食一个人的性格与语言。尽管人们在100多年前就首次发现了这种疾病，但对之仍然无法治愈，也没有治疗方案，病人在确诊后平均只有8年的生存期。
But recently, researchers have been making important discoveries about the biochemical and genetic defects that cause some forms of the disease. And for the first time, they have identified drugs that may be able to treat one of those defects, the buildup of abnormal proteins in the brain. Tests in people, the first ever such drug trials in this disease, could begin as soon as early next year at the University of California, San Francisco.
不过近来，研究者在造成这种疾病的生化与基因缺陷方面取得了重大发现。他们也首次找到了可能治疗其中一种缺陷，即脑部异常蛋白质积聚的药物。针对额颞叶痴呆的首次人类药物试验，最快有可能于明年年初在加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)展开。
“There’s really been an explosion related to the biology,” said Dr. Bruce L. Miller, a professor of neurology and psychiatry there. “I think at least some subtypes of frontotemporal dementia will be the first neurodegenerative diseases we find a cure for.”
该校的神经学和精神病学教授布鲁斯·L·米勒(Bruce L. Miller)说：“关于该病与生物学方面的联系，最近的研究确实出现了突破。我认为在神经退行性疾病中，至少额颞叶痴呆的某些亚型将最先找到治疗方法。”
This disease is different from Alzheimer’s, the most common form of dementia. But it is perhaps even more devastating, because it strikes younger people, progresses faster and, unlike Alzheimer’s, does not attack memory at first but begins with silence, apathy or bizarre personality changes. It is thought to afflict at least 50,000 to 60,000 people in the United States.
这种疾病跟阿尔茨海默症(Alzheimer’s)不一样，后者是痴呆症最普遍的表现形式。但额颞叶痴呆有可能更具毁灭性，因为它会影响到较年轻的人，病情进展更快，而且跟阿尔茨海默症不同的是，它首先并不攻击人们的记忆力，而是让人变得缄默、冷淡，或者性格发现奇怪的变化。人们相信在美国，至少有5万到6万人遭受这种疾病的影响。
The scientific findings in frontotemporal dementia may also reshape thinking about the fundamental flaws involved in Alzheimer’s disease.
关于额颞叶痴呆的科学发现，也许还将重塑人们关于阿尔茨海默症相关的基础性缺陷的认识。
“I think the way dementia is going in general now is to realize there are many different subtypes,” Dr. Miller said, adding that what is now labeled Alzheimer’s disease may actually turn out to include hundreds of different illnesses.
“我认为痴呆症的总体研究方向，是认识到这种病存在许多不同的亚型，”米勒博士说。他还补充说，那些笼统地贴上阿尔茨海默症的标签的疾病，可能实质上包括了数百种不同的疾病。
Dementia is a formidable adversary, and the history of efforts to treat Alzheimer’s has to temper any excitement about potential medicines for frontotemporal disease. The drugs for Alzheimer’s have been a disappointment, with just temporary effects on symptoms at best.
痴呆症是个令人胆寒的敌人，审视一下治疗阿尔茨海默症的历史，恐怕便会浇熄人们对额颞叶痴呆症可能的药物的兴奋劲儿。治疗阿尔茨海默症的药物至今令人失望，这些药物充其量只能暂时减缓症状。
But even if treatments or cures for frontotemporal dementia do emerge, they will almost certainly come too late for people with advanced cases, like Mr. French or Richard Rainwater, a billionaire investor who learned in 2009 that he had progressive supranuclear palsy, which some consider a form of frontotemporal dementia. Mr. Rainwater and his family have donated more than $20 million to a research consortium, but given that he has a rapidly progressive form, any advances from the consortium may be more likely to help others than to save him.
而且，就算额颞叶痴呆的疗法或药物浮出水面，对于那些疾病已经进入进展期的病人来说，恐怕也已经是为时已晚。比如弗兰奇或理查德·瑞恩沃特(Richard Rainwater)，后者是位投资家，身家达上亿美元，2009年他得知自己患上了进行性核上性麻痹(progressive supranuclear palsy)，一些人认为这种病也是额颞叶痴呆症的一种形式。瑞恩沃特及其家人向一家研究团体捐献了2000多万美元资金，但由于他的病进展非常迅速，即使这家研究团体取得了任何研究进展，恐怕也挽救不了他，而更大的可能是帮助到其他患者。
Looking for Answers
寻找答案
Looking back, Mrs. French, who is 66 and lives in Manhattan, recalled episodes of odd behavior over the years and realized that her husband’s mind had probably begun to slip while he was in his 50s, at least a decade before the disease was diagnosed. He had always changed jobs a lot. At the time she took it as a sign of a stubborn personality, not of illness — and it is still not clear which it was. He always wanted to do things his own way, and that did not sit well with some bosses.
弗兰奇夫人现年66岁，住在曼哈顿，现在回想起这些年来丈夫的种种古怪行径，她意识到早在丈夫确诊十年前，也就是他50多岁时，可能大脑就已经开始出现问题了。他不断换工作。而当时她没把这种举动当成是病症——现在也不清楚是否的确如此，而是以为这无非是丈夫脾气太固执了而已。他总是想要用自己的方式做事情，而他的一些上司并不接受这种做法。
“I thought it was just Michael being Michael,” she said.
“我以为这只是因为迈克尔个性太张扬了，”她说。
A friend described Mr. French as being unable to read the tea leaves, oblivious of corporate politics. At one point Mrs. French even bought him a self-help book. But he never changed.
弗兰奇的一位朋友形容说，他这人看不懂潜台词，完全无视办公室政治。有一阵子弗兰奇夫人甚至为他买了本自助励志书，但他还是依然故我。
And he always found another job, better than the one before. But things went downhill in 2006.
而且他总能找到下家，而且工作越跳越好。但在2006年，情况急转直下。
“His immediate boss was so frustrated by him that she called up, and we were at the dinner table, and I could hear her screaming,” Mrs. French said.
“他的顶头上司被他弄得郁闷极了，当时我们正在吃晚饭，她就打了个电话过来，我都能听到电话里她在大喊，”弗兰奇夫人说。
He was fired, and this time he did not find another job. At 66, he retired.
他被解雇了，而这一次，他没能再找到新工作。66岁这年，他退休了。
Soon after, because he had trouble speaking, he consulted a neurologist. When they got the diagnosis, Mrs. French asked the doctor, “How do we treat it?”
没过多久，因为语言表达出现了问题，他去看了一位神经科医生。在夫妇俩听到诊断结果时，弗兰奇夫人问医生：“我们该怎样治疗呢？”
“It’s brain atrophy,” he replied.
“他的大脑萎缩了，”这是医生的回答。
Her thoughts of divorce evaporated. Instead, she told her husband: “Whatever happens, we will go through this together. I will be there.”
想要离婚的念头顿时不翼而飞。她这样告诉丈夫：“不管发生什么事情，我们都会一起扛过去。我会一直陪着你。”
From then on, the silence at the dinner table no longer troubled her. It did not seem personal anymore. He was not refusing to talk; he simply could not. Her anger melted into sadness.
打那儿以后，餐桌上的沉默再也不会让她感到烦闷。这看起来不再是他俩个人的问题。他并不是拒绝跟她讲话，只是说不了罢了。她的愤怒烟消云散，取而代之的是悲哀。
But sometimes she still blew her top. Once, she came home and found him at the stove, seemingly unaware that his oven mitt was smoldering.
但有时候，她仍然会控制不住自己。有一次回到家，她发现他坐在炉子边，好像丝毫没有发现烤箱手套已经被引燃了。
“I actually hit him a couple times out of frustration,” she said. What made her lose control, she said, was a toxic mix of frustration and fear — fear of what was happening to him, and fear that she would not know what to do, how to help. No amount of information from his doctors could put her at ease.
“出于挫败感，我确实打过他两次，”她说。她解释说，是沮丧夹杂着恐惧令她失去了自制力，她惊惧的是他正面对什么样的遭遇，惊惧的是她并不知道自己该做什么，该怎样去帮助她的丈夫。医生传递给她的任何信息，她都觉得很难消化。
“They can tell you everything that’s ever happened to anyone, but they can’t tell you what’s going to happen to you,” she said.
“他们可以告诉你所有发生在任何人身上的症状，但他们说不出接下来还会发生什么，”她说。
The last five years have been wrenching and often lonely. Michael was the love of her life. When she married him, her sister asked, “How does it feel to hit the jackpot?” In more than 30 years of marriage, she never heard him say an unkind word about anyone. He was an engineer, lectured at conventions, did volunteer work, belonged to a history book club, ran marathons. Now he can no longer speak, read, write or walk.
过去这五年极其艰难，她常常感觉很孤独。丈夫麦克尔是她一生挚爱。在她嫁给她时，她姐姐说，“我们怎么觉得你像是中了大彩？”在30多年的婚姻生活中，她从没听他说过任何人的不是。他曾做过工程师，在大会上发表过演讲，做过义工，参加历史书读书俱乐部，跑过马拉松。而今，他不会说话，不会读写，也不会走路。
If there is comfort anywhere for Mrs. French, it is in knowing one thing: she has kept her promise to be there.
假如弗兰奇夫人尚能在哪里找到慰藉的话，那就是她笃信一件事情：自己坚守了诺言，一直陪着他。
The Science
大脑科学
Frontotemporal dementia, also called frontotemporal degeneration or Pick’s disease, refers to a group of diseases that destroy nerve centers in the frontal and temporal lobes — the home of decision-making, emotion, judgment, behavior and language. Some forms of the disease also cause movement disorders.
额颞叶痴呆，又称额颞叶变性或皮克氏病，是一组疾病的总称，指的是大脑额叶和颞叶——这个区域与决策、情况、判断、行为及语言有关——遭到损害。这种病的一些亚型，还可导致动作失调。
Most cases occur sporadically, in people with no family history of the illness — like Michael French — but a small percentage are inherited.
大部分病例都属偶发，出现在没有家族史的人身上，迈克尔·弗兰奇就是如此，但也有一小部分具有遗传性。
Patients generally receive from one to four misdiagnoses, and it may take years to finally get the right answer. Mistaken diagnoses can include Alzheimer’s disease, stroke, midlife crisis or psychiatric illnesses like depression, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress or anxiety. Many relatives of patients say doctors dismiss their reports of personality change. But it is real.
病人通常都会经历一至四次误诊，可能会花费数年时间才能找到正确的答案。误诊的可能性包括了阿尔茨海默症、脑卒中、中年危机或者像抑郁、双相情感障碍、创伤后应激障碍、焦虑这类精神疾病。很多病人家属说，医生忽视了他们汇报的性格改变症状。但这种症状真真切切的存在着。
“They totally break down in their ability to connect with other people and care about them,” Dr. Miller said.
“他们完全丧失了与他人沟通、关心别人的能力，”米勒医生说。
There are eight subtypes of frontotemporal degeneration, sorted by the symptoms they cause. Some affect behavior. Others, grouped under the heading primary progressive aphasia, affect language. Still others affect movement, leading to disorders that resemble Parkinson’s or Lou Gehrig’s disease (also called amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or A.L.S.).
按照引起的症状不同，额颞叶变性可分为八种亚型。一些亚型会影响行为。还有一些统称为原发性进行性失语症，影响语言能力。另有一些影响动作，会导致症状类似帕金森氏症或葛雷克氏症（又称肌萎缩侧索石化症或简称ALS）的各种失调症。
But patients may match more than one category, and the subtype may change as the disease progresses.
不过病人的症状可能符合不止一种亚型，而且随着疾病进展，亚型也有可能改变。
“I see a lot who don’t present like the textbook,” said Dr. Edward Huey, an assistant professor of psychiatry and neurology at Columbia University Medical Center.
“我看到了很多病人，病情并不像教科书描述的那样，”哥伦比亚大学医疗中心(Columbia University Medical Center)精神病学和神经学助理教授爱德华·胡伊(Edward Huey)这样说。
In most patients, MRI and other scans reveal shrinkage in the frontal and temporal lobes, sometimes to a shocking degree.
通过核磁共振扫描(MRI)和其他扫描，可以发现大部分病人的大脑额叶和颞叶出现萎缩，有时缩小到了令人震惊的程度。
“If I showed you more extreme cases, you could read it from across the room,” Dr. Huey said.
“假如我让你看更为极端的病例，你站在房间那一头看片子，都能看到大脑缩小的那部分，”胡伊医生说。
He said researchers were using imaging to find out if specific symptoms could be mapped to atrophy in certain spots.
他说，研究者正在运用成像技术，确认根据特定的症状是否可以发现脑内相应的区域出现萎缩。
“The frontal lobes are sort of the last frontier in the brain,” Dr. Huey said, adding that the losses these patients suffer are helping researchers understand more about what the frontal lobes do. As the brain atrophy progresses, Dr. Huey said, patients “have pieces of psychiatric syndromes, but not the whole syndrome.” For instance, they have compulsions, but not the usual accompaniment, obsessions. So they may wash their hands over and over again, but not in a worried or anxious way. Some lose their inhibitions and moral judgment. Shoplifting is not uncommon. Many have the apathy and social disconnection that usually go with depression, but they do not feel depressed.
“额叶可以算做是大脑的最后一道防线，”胡伊医生说。他补充说，这些病人的遭遇有助于帮助研究者进一步理解额叶的作用。他说，随着脑萎缩的进展，病人“会出现精神病综合症的碎片式的症状，但不是所有综合症症状。”比方说，他们会有强迫行为，但不伴随着通常会有的病态迷恋。所以他们有可能会反复洗手，但并不此担心或焦虑。一些人丧失了控制力和道德判断。商店行窃行为司空见惯。许多人出现了通常抑郁症会有的冷淡和与社会脱节症状，但他们本人并不觉得抑郁。
“They’re not down, but they just don’t enjoy things as much as they used to,” Dr. Huey said. “There appears to be a dysfunction in the reward circuit, where activities that were rewarding and pleasurable no longer seem to be. These patients lose themselves.”
“他们并不消沉，只不过不像往常那样享受生活了。他们的报偿回路（reward circuit，位于中脑腹侧被盖区，与人的愉悦感有关）看来出现了障碍，往常让人备感满足愉悦的行动，现在不再如此了。病人迷失了自我。”
Many seem to go on endless eating binges and gain weight. It is not clear why — whether they are actually hungry or whether the eating is just another compulsion. Some people with the illness shower repeatedly or check the mail 100 times a day. One possible reason, Dr. Huey said, is that “the part of the brain that tells you, ‘No, that task is done,’ is gone.” Some patients collect things — by the hundreds. A few have had bursts of creativity in music or painting, possibly because other brain regions come to the fore as the frontal lobes wither.
很多人貌似开始毫无节制地暴食，体重因此增长。现在并不清楚这背后的原因——是因为他们真的饿了，抑或饮食也是一种强迫的表现。一些病人不停地洗澡，或者每天查100遍邮件。胡伊医生说，一个可能的原因在于“提醒你‘不行，这件任务已经完成了’的那部分大脑功能已经不复存在。”一些人收集数以百计的物件。一些人突然在音乐或绘画上拥有了创造力，这可能是因为在大脑额叶萎缩时，大脑的其他区域取而代之。
A Way of Life Cut Short
生命骤减
Long before her husband became ill, Mrs. French had a successful career in sales and marketing for textile companies and ultimately became a vice president at Liberty of London. But she gave it up in 1991 to do something she loved: teaching English as a second language to adults. She was doing that work when his condition was diagnosed.
在丈夫患病很久之前，弗兰奇夫人从事纺织品销售和推广，职业道路非常成功，最后当上了Liberty of London百货公司的副总裁。不过在1991年她放弃了这份工作，转而做她真正热爱的事情：教授母语并非英语的成年人学这门语言。在丈夫确诊时，她仍在继续工作。
One day, in a moment of inspiration, she asked her students if they knew the traditional wedding vows in English. She began to recite them. At “for better, for worse,” she choked up. Struggling to keep her composure, she quickly finished and moved on to another subject.
一天，她灵光乍现，问学生们知不知道如果用英语来说传统的结婚誓言。她背诵起来，背到“无论顺境或是逆境”时，她哽咽了。她努力保持镇定，赶紧背完，然后转移了话题。
After teaching, she would walk home through Central Park, and in the early days of his illness Mr. French would often meet her halfway. She would see him heading toward her, smiling and strikingly handsome. “When I look at Michael, that’s what I see, that’s who he will always be to me.”
在上完课后，她会穿过中央公园走回家。在患病初期，丈夫常常去半道上迎接她。在她眼中，他一路走来，面带笑容，英俊非凡。“我眼中的迈克尔永远是这幅样子，在我心目中，他也将永远如此。”
In 2007, Mrs. French joined a support group for caregivers of people with frontotemporal dementia. Jill Goldman, a genetic counselor at Columbia University Medical Center, said she started the group because patients’ relatives felt that they did not fit in at Alzheimer’s groups; their loved ones were younger and often had bizarre behaviors that were nothing like Alzheimer’s.
2007年，弗兰奇夫人加入了一个由额颞叶痴呆患者的护理者组成的互助小组。哥伦比亚大学医疗中心的遗传学顾问吉尔·戈德曼(Jill Goldman)说，她之所以创立了这个小组，是因为病人家属觉得自己跟阿尔茨海默症的互助小组情况并不一样；他们深爱的家人要更为年轻，而且往往会做出异常举动，这跟阿尔茨海默症完全不同。
“One of the things that goes first is insight,” Ms. Goldman said. “ ‘There’s nothing wrong with me. Why can’t I do what I want to do?’ ”
戈德曼说：“他们最先失去的是洞察力。他们会想，‘我一点错都没有啊，为什么我不能为所欲为？’”
Members of the group tell of loved ones who hug strangers, who fly into terrifying rages and hit family members and health aides, or who pass their days in silence cutting up newspapers or watching television. Patients are easily taken in by financial scams that can cost families thousands of dollars. Often, apathy sets in, and people once devoted to their families lose interest in everyone, even their own children.
互助小组的成员们诉说亲人的种种行为，他们会拥抱陌生人，会突然暴怒，殴打家人和陪护，或者整天缄默不语，一个劲儿地剪着报纸或看着电视。病人很容易遇到经济诈骗的陷阱，往往一下子让家人损失成千上万美元。他们常常变得冷漠疏离，那些一度非常顾家的人会对包括子女在内的所有人失去兴趣。
“My son and I look out the window and see my wife out there, stepping on leaves, and we start to cry,” one member said.
“我和儿子望向窗外，看到我的妻子站在外面，一个劲儿地踏着落叶，我们俩哭了起来，”一位成员这样说。
Some have struggled with uncertain diagnoses because patients have symptoms of both Alzheimer’s and frontotemporal disease. One wife described trips to multiple doctors and inconclusive reports on PET scans and spinal taps. Should she have taken her husband to the Mayo Clinic? She agonized over the idea that he might have some illness other than frontotemporal dementia or Alzheimer’s, something treatable, and that there might be some way to rescue him, to bring him back.
一些人则因为无法确诊而不安，因为病人的各种症状既符合阿尔茨海默症，也符合额颞叶痴呆。一位妻子描述说他们曾多次去医院，而PET扫描和脊椎穿刺的检查结果依然不确切。她是否本应带丈夫去梅奥医学中心(Mayo Clinic)看病？她感觉痛苦之极，想到丈夫可能患的并不是额颞叶痴呆或阿尔茨海默症，有可能他患的是什么可以治疗的疾病，或许仍然有办法能挽救他，能让她的丈夫恢复原样。
Another said her husband, a judge who had always been mild-mannered and modest, turned boastful and began talking to strangers in the street, making jokes at the wrong time and falling for scams.
另一个成员说，她的丈夫是位法官，过去向来为人为善，态度谦逊，可现在却变得大话连篇，在街上跟路人搭讪，在错误的时机乱说笑话，还不断上别人的当。
“He salutes every flag, closes every gate, kisses every hand,” she said.
“他向每面旗帜敬礼，将每扇大门关上，亲吻每个人的手，”她说。
Riding the bus in Manhattan, he will loudly announce, “I haven’t killed anybody lately.” Not infrequently it gets him a seat. He can turn violent and has struck a health aide with his cane.
在曼哈顿乘坐公交车时，他会大声念叨，“我最近没杀过人。”这常常能让别人腾出座位让给他。他会突然变成凶神恶煞，曾拿着拐棍揍他的陪护。
“He’s just mean and nasty,” his wife said. “He was such a wonderful man. He’s not a person anymore.”
“他变得很粗鲁，很讨厌，”他的妻子说，“他原本是个大好人。可现在他的人性泯灭了。”
Ms. Goldman provides stacks of business-size cards that spouses can hand out to strangers in awkward situations.
戈德曼制作了很多名片大小的卡片，遇到尴尬的时刻，配偶们能将卡面递给陌生人。
“My husband has a terminal brain disease called frontotemporal dementia,” the cards read. “Thank you for your understanding.”
卡片上这么写道：“我的丈夫得了一种叫额颞叶痴呆的终末期脑病。感谢您的理解。”
Many find that friends and family pull away. Nearly all grapple with whether and when to take away car keys, give drugs to blunt aggression, hire a health aide or put the patient in a nursing home. One group member said, “The doctor told me, ‘You’re taking good care of him, he’ll live a long time,’ and I said, ‘Why is that a good thing?’ ”
很多人发现亲友开始退避三舍。几乎所有人都要面对种种问题的纠缠，比如是否以及何时没收伴侣的车钥匙，在出现攻击性行为时灌药，请一位陪护，或者送病人去疗养院。一位小组成员说：“医生告诉我，‘你把他照顾得很好，他可以活很长时间，’而我回答说，‘这怎么能算一件好事呢？’”
Patients are hard to care for at home, and those who are young, strong and aggressive are sometimes kicked out of nursing homes because they are seen as posing a physical threat. But employers do not necessarily sympathize with relatives called out of work in the middle of the day because a patient has punched or shoved someone at the nursing home.
很难在家中妥善照顾好病人，那些年轻、强壮而又有攻击性的病人有时会被送进疗养院，因为家人担心他们会造成威胁。但当病人殴打或者推搡了疗养院里的工作人员，对于得在上班期间急急忙忙离岗去处理乱子的人来说，他们的老板可没必要给予同情心。
“My boss says, ‘You just have to deal with this better,’ ” one group member said.
“我老板说，‘你得把这个问题处理得更好些，’”一位成员说。
Another group member, a professor of psychotherapy and mental health counseling, said she quit her job at the height of her career to take care of her partner and after a few years became suicidal.
另一位小组成员是个心理学教授、精神健康顾问，她说她在自己事业如日中天时被迫辞掉了工作，全心全意照顾伴侣，这样做了好几年后，她本人出现了自杀倾向。
“Being a caregiver in this disease is a grieving process,” she said, “while the person is still alive.”
“照顾得了这种病人的人，尽管对方仍然活在世上，你仍然会感觉非常悲痛，”她说。
Easing the Burden
减轻负累
Ruth and Michael French managed on their own until May 2009, when he fell down a flight of stairs in their apartment building while she was at work. He fractured his skull and came home in a wheelchair, so weak and frail that she hired an aide to help take care of him.
弗兰奇夫妇一直在勉力依靠自己的力量，直到2009年5月，当时她在工作，他从公寓的楼梯上摔了下去，导致颅骨骨折，出院回家时仍需坐轮椅，因为丈夫身体太孱弱了，她只能请了个陪护来帮忙照顾。
Mrs. French is fine-boned and thin, and as her husband grew weaker, the physical demands on her became daunting. Streets she had thought flat revealed themselves to be hills once she found herself trying to push a 140-pound man in a wheelchair. Potholes yawned like chasms. One night at home, after helping him clean his teeth, she turned to put the toothbrush away, and in that moment he fell into the bathtub. She was barely able to pull him up.
弗兰奇夫人骨骼纤细、身材清瘦，当丈夫身体一点点变得虚弱时，她需要面对的体力需求变得越来越让人却步。当她拼命想要用轮椅推着一个体重140磅的男人前行时，原本看似平坦的街道变得有如一座座小山丘。马路上的小缝张大口，好似一道道峡谷。有一天晚上在家时，她帮他刷好了牙，转身将牙刷搁好，就在转瞬间他一头栽进了浴缸里，她连将他拉进来的力气都快没有了。
“I said, ‘Michael, now we’re at the point where we’re both at risk,’ ” she recalled.
“当时我说，‘迈克尔，眼下我们俩都危险了，’”她回忆说。
She injured her wrist, developed a stomach ulcer and lost so much weight that people worried about her. Mr. French became incontinent, and she would sometimes wake up in a pool of his urine. The health aide hurt her back lifting him.
她扭伤了手腕，得了胃溃疡，整个人迅速消瘦，大家都开始为她担心。而此时她的丈夫开始出现大小便失禁，有时她猛地惊醒，发现自己躺在他的一滩尿液中。就连陪护在抬他时，也把背弄伤了。
“I heard myself say one day, ‘I would never want anybody to do for me what I’m doing for Michael,’ ” Mrs. French said.
“有天我自言自语说，‘无论如何，我都希望永远不要有人为我做我现在正为迈克尔做的事情，’”弗兰奇夫人说。
She had hoped to keep him at home until the end but knew it might not be possible. “This thing is going to kill both of us, and I don’t know who’s going first,” she told him.
她原本希望能让他一直留在家里，直到终老的那一天，但她知道这恐怕是不可能了。“这个病会把我们两人都害死的，而且我不知道谁会走在前面，”她这样对他说。
In one way, she had an easier time than many other caregivers. Her husband never turned hostile. He retained a sweetness, and an acceptance of his illness that she found inspiring.
在某种程度上，她的日子比许多其他看护者要轻松些。她的丈夫从来没有做出过粗鲁的举动。他始终举止温柔，并且坦然接受了自己的病情，这让她感到了几许鼓舞。
At one point, worried about finances, she considered laying off the aide and taking care of Michael alone. When members of her support group worried that the stress would kill her, she told them, “That might not be so bad.”
有一阵子，因为担心经济压力，她考虑要辞掉护工，一人照顾迈克尔。互助小组的伙伴们担心压力会害她送命，她告诉他们：“也许那也不是坏事。”
At Ms. Goldman’s urging, she saw a psychotherapist. He recommended medications to calm her. She filled the prescription but threw the pills away.
在戈德曼的敦促下，她去看了个心理治疗师，对方推荐她服用可以镇定情绪的药物。她买了药，但最后还是把这些药都扔了。
“I kind of feel that having gone through the anxiety and the worry is what let me get to the other side,” Mrs. French said.
“我多少有这种感觉，好像经历了焦虑和担忧，我就能到达彼岸，”弗兰奇夫人说。
While Mr. French was still well enough, they had discussed the possibility of a nursing home. So when the time came, it was not really a surprise.
在弗兰奇状态尚可时，夫妻俩就讨论过进疗养院的可能。所以当这个时刻到来时，他们并不感觉突兀。
“He knew it was something I didn’t want to do, because every time we spoke about it I would cry,” Mrs. French said. “When I told him that I had made arrangements, he said — and this is a man who can’t speak, so he had to muster every bit of energy he could — he said, ‘You did the best you could.’ ”
“他知道我不想这么做，因为每次一提这个话茬我就会哭，”弗兰奇夫人说：“当我告诉他，我已经安排好了时，他说——他实际上已经不能说话了，所以得调动全身的所有力量——他说，‘你已经做到最好了。’”
In April last year, Mrs. French placed her husband in a nursing home in Manhattan. Along with her sadness came feelings of relief and freedom. Soon after he was settled, she went out to dinner with friends for the first time in two years.
去年四月，弗兰奇夫人将丈夫送进了曼哈顿的一家疗养院。除了难过，她也感到解脱和自由。在丈夫安定下来不久，她和朋友们一起出去吃了个晚餐，这是两年里她第一次得闲出去吃饭。
“At times, I ache for him to be back in the apartment,” she said. “But I ache for him to be back as him.”
“有时，我非常渴望他能回家。但我渴望的是当他回来时，他还是过去的那个他，”她说。
She said that long after he ceased speaking, he continues to understand what she says.
她说，在他失语很久后，他仍然能听懂她说的是什么。
“I remember asking his neurologist, ‘Will he know me?’ ” Mrs. French said. “And he said, ‘Oh, he’ll always know you. He might not be able to express it in a way that will be familiar to you or that you’ll like, but he’ll always know you.’ ”
“我记得曾问过他的神经科医生，‘他还能认出我来吗？’他说，‘噢，他永远都能认出你。他或许没办法用你熟悉或者喜欢的方法来表达这一点，但他永远都能认出你。’”弗兰奇夫人说。
She wondered what longings might drive her husband’s dreams:
她有时会猜想，在丈夫的梦境中会流动着怎样的渴望：
“I asked him, ‘Do you talk in your dreams?’ and he said, ‘Yes.’ And I asked him, ‘Do you dream about me?’ And he said, ‘Yes.’ ”
“我问他，‘在梦里你会说话吗？’他说，‘会。’我又问，‘你会梦到我吗？’他又回答，‘会。’”
She has had time to think about mortality, his and her own.
她想到过死亡，他的离去，以及她自己的离去。
“Death to me has always been a wake-up call to live,” she said. “This is the endgame. Sometimes I get upset because I don’t think I have enough money, and sometimes I get upset because I think I do. You don’t necessarily want to live too long, but neither do you want to die.”
“死亡对我来说，永远是继续活下去的一记警钟，”她说。“我们已走到终点。有时我觉得郁闷，是因为我觉得自己的钱不够多；有时我觉得郁闷，是因为觉得自己的钱已经足够。你不想在这世上活太久，但你也不想死。”
On most days, she spends several hours at the nursing home with her husband. She shaves him and sometimes climbs into bed with him to hold him and to nap together.
大部分时候，每天她都会去疗养院陪丈夫好几个小时。她给他剃干净胡子，有时也会上床搂住他，两人相拥着一起打个盹。
“Where do you carry my heart?” she asks him, referring to a poem they love by E. E. Cummings.
“你将我的心带到了哪里？”她问他。她指的是两人都喜欢的一首E·E·卡明斯(E. E. Cummings)的诗。
He smiles and pats his chest.
他微笑着，拍了拍自己的胸膛。
i carry your heart with me(i carry it in
我将你的心带在身上，用我的心将它妥善包藏
my heart)i am never without it(anywhere
天长日久也不会遗忘
i go you go,my dear;and whatever is done
无论我前往何方，都有你伴我身旁
by only me is your doing,my darling)
即便我单独成事，那也是出由于爱人，你的力量
i fear no fate(for you are my fate,my sweet)i want
面对命运我从不恐慌，你就是我命运的方向
no world(for beautiful you are my world,my true)
世间万物于我皆如浮云，你在我眼中就是天地四方