The fact that we’ve spent six years at the so-called zero lower bound is amazing and depressing. What’s even more amazing and depressing, if you ask me, is how slow our economic discourse has been to catch up with the new reality. Everything changes when the economy is at rock bottom — or, to use the term of art, in a liquidity trap (don’t ask). But for the longest time, nobody with the power to shape policy would believe it.
我们过去六年一直处在所谓的“零利率下限”，这真是神奇又压抑。更神奇、更压抑的事情，依我看就是我们的经济话语追赶新现实的速度有多慢。如果经济形势跌落到谷底——用专业词汇说就是，陷入“流动性陷阱”（就别问是什么意思了）——所有的事情就都变了。然而长期以来，没有哪个有权力制定政策的人愿意相信。
What do I mean by saying that everything changes? As I wrote way back when, in a rock-bottom economy “the usual rules of economic policy no longer apply: virtue becomes vice, caution is risky and prudence is folly.” Government spending doesn’t compete with private investment — it actually promotes business spending. Central bankers, who normally cultivate an image as stern inflation-fighters, need to do the exact opposite, convincing markets and investors that they will push inflation up. “Structural reform,” which usually means making it easier to cut wages, is more likely to destroy jobs than create them.
我说所有事情都变了，是什么意思呢？就像我很久之前写过的，经济形势处于谷底时，“经济政策的惯常规则就不再适用：好事会变成坏事，警惕会招致风险，谨慎就是发疯。”政府开支并不会与私营部门的投资竞争，实际上反而会促进商业开支。中央银行官员通常会给自己塑造一种坚定抑制通胀的形象，但此时他们要做的恰恰相反，应该说服市场和投资者，他们会推高通胀。“结构性改革”通常意味着让削减工资变得更容易，此时这样做更可能会摧毁就业，而不是创造就业。
This may all sound wild and radical, but it isn’t. In fact, it’s what mainstream economic analysis says will happen once interest rates hit zero. And it’s also what history tells us. If you paid attention to the lessons of post-bubble Japan, or for that matter the U.S. economy in the 1930s, you were more or less ready for the looking-glass world of economic policy we’ve lived in since 2008.
这些听起来都有点疯狂有点激进，但其实不然。实际上，这正是主流经济学分析所阐述的，利率跌至零时会发生的情形。它也得到了历史经验的印证。如果留意日本在泡沫破灭后的教训，或者1930年代的美国经济，你就能或多或少地接受自从2008年以来，我们所处的这种颠倒的经济政策环境。
But as I said, nobody would believe it. By and large, policy makers and Very Serious People in general went with gut feelings rather than careful economic analysis. Yes, they sometimes found credentialed economists to back their positions, but they used these economists the way a drunkard uses a lamppost: for support, not for illumination. And what the guts of these serious people have told them, year after year, is to fear — and do — exactly the wrong things.
然而就像我说过的，没有人愿意相信。总体而言，政策制定者和许多一本正经的人，行动的依据都是直观感受，而不是认真的经济分析。是的，他们有时候会找些有资历的经济学家支持自己的立场，然而他们用经济学家的方式，就像是醉鬼用路灯的方式：只是想得到支撑，不是想照亮方向。而这些一本正经的人靠自己的直观感受，恰恰一直在年复一年地恐惧不该恐惧的事情，做不该做的事情。
Thus we were told again and again that budget deficits were our most pressing economic problem, that interest rates would soar any day now unless we imposed harsh fiscal austerity. I could have told you that this was foolish, and in fact I did, and sure enough, the predicted interest rate spike never happened — but demands that we cut government spending now, now, now have cost millions of jobs and deeply damaged our infrastructure.
所以他们一再告诫，财政赤字是最紧迫的经济问题，除非实行严厉的财政纪律，否则利率随时都可能飞涨。我本来可以告诉你，这种说法很蠢，实际上我也的确说过。可以肯定地说，预言的利率飙升从来没有发生，然而现在、立刻、马上就要削减政府开支的呼声，却让我们失去了数以百万计的就业岗位，并且深深破坏了我们的经济基础。
We were also told repeatedly that printing money — not what the Fed was actually doing, but never mind — would lead to “currency debasement and inflation.” The Fed, to its credit, stood up to this pressure, but other central banks didn’t. The European Central Bank, in particular, raised rates in 2011 to head off a nonexistent inflationary threat. It eventually reversed course but has never gotten things back on track. At this point European inflation is far below the official target of 2 percent, and the Continent is flirting with outright deflation.
他们也一再告诫，印钱——虽然话是这么说，但美联储(Fed)并不是真的在印刷钞票——会导致“货币贬值和通胀”。值得称赞的是，美联储顶住了这种压力，然而其他国家的中央银行却没有。具体而言，欧洲央行在2011年为了抗击并不存在的通胀威胁而提高了利率，欧洲央行最终扭转了政策，但也没能把经济形势拉回正轨。目前，欧洲的通胀水平远低于2%的官方目标，整个大洲都濒临通货紧缩的边缘。
But are these bad calls just water under the bridge? Isn’t the era of rock-bottom economics just about over? Don’t count on it.
这些错误的决定是不是已经成为过去？低谷时期的经济学原则是不是即将过去？那可未必。
It’s true that with the U.S. unemployment rate dropping, most analysts expect the Fed to raise interest rates sometime next year. But inflation is low, wages are weak, and the Fed seems to realize that raising rates too soon would be disastrous. Meanwhile, Europe looks further than ever from economic liftoff, while Japan is still struggling to escape from deflation.
的确，随着美国失业率的下降，许多分析人士预期美联储会在明年的某个时间点提高利率。然而现在通胀水平、工资水平都较低，美联储似乎意识到，过早提升利率可能会带来灾难性的后果。与此同时，欧洲距离经济起飞似乎无比遥远，而日本仍在挣扎着试图摆脱通缩。