As Kathleen Emmets was undergoing cancer treatment in New York over the past few years, her weight began to drop. Even though she was often nauseous and paralyzed by chemotherapy-induced neuropathy, she joked that thinness was the “bonus of cancer,” and found herself looking in the mirror and admiring her deep and hollow collarbone.
过去几年，凯瑟琳·艾美茨(Kathleen Emmets)一直在纽约接受癌症治疗，她的体重开始下降。尽管常常感到恶心，化疗引起神经病变还会导致身体麻痹，她仍开玩笑说苗条是“癌症的好处”，她会对着镜子欣赏自己深陷的锁骨。
Ms. Emmets, now 39, filled her closet with extra-small size clothes. At night she pressed her fingers against her protruding bones, saying to herself, “I’m finally skinny.”
39岁的艾美茨在衣柜里放满了特小号的衣服。到了夜晚，她会用手指摁着自己突出的骨头，对自己说，“我终于瘦了。”
But it was only when her cancer treatment changed that it became clear that the body-image issues she had been grappling with since her early 20s — when she would eat next to nothing and walk for six hours a day to deal with stress — had begun to resurface. When the new treatment didn’t make her sick, her appetite returned, and she began to gain weight. But instead of celebrating this sign of improving health, Ms. Emmets says she missed her size 2 jeans and was appalled by her round belly and full breasts. Her husband watched with concern as her body appeared stronger but she began imposing her own food restrictions and started shrinking again.
但是在癌症治疗方案改变之后，她渐渐意识到：从20出头时就在努力克服的体型问题再次浮现，那时候为了应对压力她几乎什么都不吃，还要每天走6个小时。当新的治疗方法不再让她恶心时，她的食欲也回来了，体重开始增加。然而身体好转的迹象并没有让艾美茨欣喜，反而让她怀念起她的2码牛仔裤，对自己鼓起的肚子和丰满的胸部感到厌恶。她的丈夫忧心忡忡地看着她身体日渐强壮起来，却开始采取节食措施，让身体再度瘦下去。
“During your cancer treatment, you have no control over your body — you give up your body to your doctor,” said Ms. Emmets, who wrote about her experiences on the website The Manifest-Station. “You are willing to do it because you want to live. Food restriction is the one thing that you can do to have some sense of control when everything is chaotic.”
“在癌症治疗期间，你对你的身体毫无控制——你把你的身体交给了医生，”艾美茨说，她把自己的经历写到了一个叫The Manifest-Station的网站上。“你愿意这么做是因为你想活下去。当所有事情都陷入混乱时，节食是让你感到自己还能控制的一件事。”
While it isn’t known how often cancer triggers or reawakens an eating disorder, doctors and nutrition experts who work with cancer patients share anecdotal reports of patients who emerge from a difficult round of cancer treatment and weight loss only to begin struggling with a serious eating disorder that threatens their postcancer health.
尽管尚不清楚癌症在多大程度上可以引发或者再次唤醒饮食紊乱，与癌症患者接触的医生和营养专家分享了一些零星案例，有些患者挺过了一轮痛苦的癌症治疗以及体重的下降后，竟要开始与威胁健康的严重饮食紊乱作斗争。
After Ms. Emmets wrote about her experiences online, she heard from dozens of women who had experienced body issues during cancer treatment. One anonymous commenter wrote that after successful treatment for advanced cervical cancer, she could think only about her weight. “I have beat cancer, but all I care about is losing that weight and keeping it off,” she wrote.
艾美茨在网上写出了她的经历后，收到了几十位在癌症治疗过程中经历了体型问题的女性的回复。一位匿名的评论者留言说，在成功地治疗了晚期宫颈癌后，她现在满脑子是体重问题。“我已经战胜了癌症，但我唯一在乎的是减重并且不反弹，”她写道。
A reader on another site, who gave her name as Doreen, said cancer treatment had created opportunities to hide her disordered eating.
一位自称多琳(Doreen)的读者在另一个网站上说，癌症治疗让她有机会去隐藏饮食紊乱的问题。
“You are sharing my secret that I’ve carried around for over 15 years,” Doreen wrote. “I, too, used my cancer treatment as an excuse to practice my eating disorder. No one questioned why I wasn’t eating, why I was throwing up, why I was experiencing rapid weight loss.”
“你正在分享我的秘密，我已经保守这个秘密超过15年了，”多林说。“我也用我的癌症治疗作为继续饮食紊乱行为的借口。没人质疑过我为什么不吃东西，为什么呕吐，为什么我的体重迅速减轻。”
Eating disorders are so powerful, wrote Doreen, that even in the midst of cancer, she was compelled to “deprive my body of any nutrients at a time when it needed them the most.”
多琳说她的饮食紊乱十分严重，以至于身患癌症的她还被迫“在身体最需要营养时候让它不能获取任何营养。”
While eating disorders related to cancer appear to be uncommon, doctors say more study is needed to determine just how often they occur. A 2011 article in The International Journal of Family Medicine reported on a 15-year-old girl who had begun showing symptoms of anorexia nervosa soon after beginning her treatment for advanced osteosarcoma. The article authors emphasized that they had found only three other case studies on the problem, and urged more attention to the issue. In the case of the 15-year-old, a family-based intervention helped her overcome her eating disorder.
与癌症相关的进食障碍似乎并不常见，医生们认为需要做更多研究来查明病发几率。《国际家庭医学》杂志(The International Journal of Family Medicine)在2011年的一篇文章提到一个15岁的女孩，在开始治疗晚期骨肉瘤没多久就显现出了神经性厌食症的症状。作者强调他们另外只找到三个病例，并呼吁加强对它的关注。在这个15岁姑娘的案例中，最终家庭干预帮助她克服了进食障碍。
“There needs to be more research in these areas so that people are aware of patients’ histories when it comes to their prior problems with eating, and finding ways to help them,” said Dr. Aminah Jatoi, an oncologist who has incorporated nutrition in her 16 years of work treating cancer patients at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
“这些领域需要有更多的研究，这样人们会在病人出现上述进食问题时知道病人过往情况，来帮助他们，”肿瘤医生阿米娜·贾多伊(Aminah Jatoi)说，她过去16年在明尼苏达州罗切斯特市的梅奥诊所(Mayo Clinic)中结合营养学治疗癌症病人。
Dr. Michael Strober, director of the eating disorders program at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that while it was unlikely that someone would develop anorexia after age 20, the eating disorder that Ms. Emmets had experienced in her 20s was accentuated by her illness. “Anything that affects body image, weight loss or weight gain, can return the illness to its prior level of intensity,” Dr. Strober said.
迈克尔·斯特罗布(Michael Strober)医生是加州大学洛杉矶分校大卫·格芬医学院(David Geffen School of Medicine)进食障碍项目主任，他说在20岁后患上神经性厌食症比较罕见，艾美茨的疾病导致20多岁时的进食障碍加重了。“任何影响体型的因素，不管是减重或是增重，都会使这个问题严重程度恢复到之前的水平，”斯特罗布医生说。
The nutritional therapist Robyn Goldberg, who spent five years as an inpatient clinical dietitian at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles before opening a private practice in Beverly Hills, recalled two clients who both struggled with eating disorders and cancer. “I was working on optimizing nutrition when they were sick,” Ms. Goldberg said. “Once they were better, I was working with them on gaining weight, and they didn’t want to gain weight.”
在比弗利山开设私人诊所之前，营养师罗宾·戈德伯格(Robyn Goldberg)在洛杉矶的希德斯-西奈医疗中心(Cedars-Sinai Medical Center)当了五年的住院病人营养师，她回忆了两名同时患有进食障碍和癌症的病人。“他们生病时我努力优化他们的营养，”戈德伯格说。“他们好些了之后我就开始帮助他们增重，但他们不愿意增重。”
Rachel Wong, an oncology dietitian, works mostly with head and neck cancer patients on getting comfortable with eating solid foods after their treatment, but she has worked with a few young female cancer patients suffering from eating disorders and cancer at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital. “Often I am made aware of the eating disorder by the oncologist,” Ms. Wong said, “Oftentimes individuals with eating disorders may not want to talk about it.”
瑞切尔·王(Rachel Wong)是一名肿瘤营养学家，她的工作主要是帮助头颈部癌症病人在治疗后适应固态食物。她在医疗之星乔治敦大学医院(MedStar Georgetown University Hospital)工作时遇到过几位患有进食障碍的年轻女性癌症病人。“通常是肿瘤医生告诉我她们的进食障碍，”王女士说，“患有进食障碍的人不愿意提到这件事。”
Ms. Emmets, who sought therapy to deal with her cancer and eating disorder, said her oncologist never asked about her long history with body issues. While she doesn’t blame her doctor, she says doctors should be aware of potential eating disorder issues when patients lose or gain weight.
寻求癌症和进食障碍治疗的艾美茨说，她的肿瘤医生从未问过她长期以来在体型方面遇到的问题。她没有责备她的医生，但是她说，在患者体重减轻或者增加时，医生应该要知道潜在的进食障碍问题。
“It’s a real thing, and I’m not an anomaly,” she said. “I think that it needs not to be such a taboo topic.”
“这是真实存在的，我也不是异类，”她说。“我觉得这不该成为禁忌话题。”