If Gabriel García Márquez’s “Love in the Time of Cholera” turned the romance novel into literature, and Mario Vargas Llosa, with “Conversation in the Cathedral,” applied French 1950s nouveau roman techniques to the political thriller, the Cuban writer Leonardo Padura, known for detective thrillers, has made his entrance to the Latin American Modernist canon by writing a Russian novel.
如果说，加布里埃尔·加西亚·马尔克斯(Gabriel García Márquez)的《霍乱时期的爱情》(Love in the Time of Cholera)将浪漫小说变成了文学，而马里奥·巴尔加斯·略萨(Mario Vargas Llosa)通过《酒吧长谈》(Conversation in the Cathedral)将1950年代的法国新浪漫主义技法引入了政治惊悚小说，那么以惊险侦探小说著称的古巴作家莱昂纳多·帕杜拉(Leonardo Padura)则通过一部苏俄题材的小说步入了拉丁美洲现代主义文学经典的殿堂。
“The Man Who Loved Dogs,” published in Spanish in 2009 and now appearing in an English translation by Anna Kushner, tells the story of the exile of Leon Trotsky, founder of the Red Army and the Soviet people’s commissar for foreign affairs, who was assassinated in Mexico on Aug. 20, 1940. Its Russian quality comes not only from its length — almost 600 pages — and the fact that it returns constantly to Moscow, but also from its Tolstoyan passion for historical trifles and Dostoyevskyan pleasure in examining the moral life of its characters.
《爱狗的男人》(The Man Who Loved Dogs)于2009年以西班牙语发表，现在有了安娜·库什纳(Anna Kushner)的英译版。它讲述了苏联红军的奠基人、外交人民委员列夫·托洛茨基(Leon Trotsky)被流放并于1940年8月20日在墨西哥被暗杀的故事。这部小说的俄罗斯元素不光在于它将近600页的长度和时常插入对莫斯科的描写，更在于它对历史细节展现出同托尔斯泰式的热情，对书中人物道德生活的探讨则颇有陀思妥耶夫斯基之风。
In the summer of 1940, someone identified as a Belgian named Jacques Mornard infiltrated Trotsky’s inner circle and, during a visit to his house in Mexico City, sank an ice pick into Trotsky’s head. Despite having just had a hole punched in his skull and half of his brain perforated, Trotsky — a survivor of Siberia — knocked down, subdued and disarmed his assassin. And then he collapsed.
1940年夏天，一位自称比利时人雅克·莫纳(Jacques Mornard)的男子混入了托洛茨基的核心社交圈，在某次来到他位于墨西哥城的家中拜访时，用一把冰凿刺入了托洛茨基的头颅。托洛茨基曾被流放西伯利亚而幸存，尽管头上被刺了个洞，半个大脑被刺穿，他仍旧打倒并制服了刺客，然后才倒地身亡。
Mornard spent the next 20 years in a Mexican prison. In the 1950s, the Mexican police discovered his real identity: His name was Ramón Mercader. He was Spanish, and he’d been trained by the K.G.B.
莫纳此后在墨西哥监狱服刑20年。直到1950年代，墨西哥警察才发现他的真实身份：他真名是拉蒙·麦卡德尔(Ramón Mercader)，西班牙人，克格勃训练出来的特务。
Mercader’s story is worthy of the wildest espionage thrillers. He was transferred to Moscow from Barcelona during the Spanish Civil War. Once there, he was transformed into an ideal Belgian. He was sent to Paris so he might seduce Trotsky’s confidante, the New Yorker Sylvia Ageloff. Then he was shipped off to New York, with a Canadian identity, and, from there, he established a phantom company in Mexico City, where he finally accomplished his task.
麦卡德尔的经历完胜最惊险的间谍惊悚小说。他在西班牙内战期间被从巴塞罗那调到莫斯科，在那里改头换面成为一个标准的比利时人。他被派到巴黎勾引托洛茨基的心腹、纽约女子西尔维娅·阿格洛夫(Sylvia Ageloff)，然后又以伪造的加拿大身份来到纽约，在那里远程建立了一个位于墨西哥城的影子公司，最终来到墨西哥城完成任务。
After serving his 20-year sentence, Mercader returned to a hero’s welcome in the Soviet Union. There he married the Mexican Stalinist who had been his link with the K.G.B. during his imprisonment, and he lived until his early 70s in a luxurious building overlooking Gorky Park. He spent his last years in Cuba, where he died in 1978.
服完20年刑期后，麦卡德尔以英雄身份回到苏联，受到热烈欢迎。后来，他与自己服刑期间的克格勃联络人、一位笃信斯大林主义的墨西哥女子结婚，在一间俯视高尔基公园的豪华住宅一直生活到70多岁。他的晚年在古巴度过，1978年在那里去世。
“The Man Who Loved Dogs” recounts Mercader’s life in counterpoint to the cat-and-mouse game that Stalin played with Trotsky from the moment Trotsky was expelled from the Communist Party in 1927 until his murder. And it was a cruel game: Even as his agents closed in for the dramatic ice pick checkmate, Stalin permitted himself the luxury of keeping Trotsky alive long enough to learn about the murders of most of his children and many other relatives.
《爱狗的男人》以麦卡德尔的人生经历为主线，对应从1927年托洛茨基遭苏共开除起，一直到他被暗杀的13年中，斯大林对托洛茨基展开的殊死追杀。这是一场残酷的游戏：就在他的特务已经接近托洛茨基，即将执行刺杀之际，斯大林仍等到托洛茨基得知自己的多数子女和诸多亲属都被杀害之后，才命令下手。
In addition to the parallel stories of Mercader and Trotsky, “The Man Who Loved Dogs” has a third voice, a Cuban one. Iván Cárdenas is a frustrated writer whose life explodes when, in 1976, walking on the beach, he meets an exiled Spaniard who may be Ramón Mercader. Through him, Iván, once kept in the dark by the Cuban government’s policy of “programmed ignorance” for its citizens, learns about 20th-century history, reads Orwell and Trotsky and becomes aware of the horrors of the Stalinist era.
在麦卡德尔和托洛茨基两条平行的线索之外，《爱狗的男人》还有第三个声音：不得志的古巴作家伊万·卡迪纳斯(Iván Cárdenas)，他的生活在1976年发生剧变：那年，他在海滩上散步时遇到一位可能是拉蒙·麦卡德尔的西班牙流亡者。长期受古巴政府洗脑教育而对世界和历史知之甚少的伊万，从此开始了解20世纪的历史，阅读奥威尔和托洛茨基等人的作品，并了解了斯大林时代的暴政。
Mr. Padura’s novel tells this triple story without ever abandoning the general conventions of fiction. More concerned with the emotional life of its characters than with their historical roles, the novel still imparts a sense of reality, thanks to its deft handling of an astonishing quantity of information about Trotsky and Mercader’s lives. This doesn’t impair the book but it does make it a serious reading project: There is an almost courtroom rhythm to Mr. Padura’s storytelling, as if an urgent need to offer evidence had overwhelmed his ability simply to present the macabre dance between the victim and his assassin.
帕杜拉的小说以三条线索叙事，但又未打破小说体裁的基本规范。尽管他对人物的情感世界关注程度超过了他们的历史角色，但小说巧妙处理了数量惊人的有关托洛茨基和麦卡德尔生平的史实，令全书具有强烈的真实感。这一特征并未损害小说，但令它读起来颇为严肃：帕杜拉的叙事具有类似法庭审判的紧张节奏，似乎因为举证的迫切需求而让他无法简单讲述刺客与刺杀对象之间的“死亡舞蹈”。
The three alternating stories resonate with one another, acquiring deeper meaning as they paint the complete fresco of a political paradigm’s downfall. Mr. Padura suggests that his three main characters, though playing very different roles, end up victims of the machinations of a system that discards them when they stop being useful. All three love dogs, and all three have endured claustrophobic restriction verging on imprisonment. Each concludes that his loyalty to Marxist ideas has transformed him into a ghost. And each, in his unhappiness, confesses and incriminates himself.
三条互相穿插的叙事线索相得益彰，共同完成了一位政治巨人的悲惨结局的全景图，并因此而获得更深的内涵。帕杜拉在书中暗示，他的三位主人公尽管扮演了截然不同的角色，最终都无法避免被体制操控、一旦利用价值被榨干即被抛弃的受害者命运。三个人都喜欢狗，三个人又都蒙受了牢狱之苦、或者与监狱不相上下的体制禁锢；他们最终都意识到，对马克思主义的忠贞信仰令他们生不如死；他们又都在内心煎熬中袒露心胸，并谴责自身。
“Orwell’s futurist and imaginative fable ‘1984’ ended up turning into a starkly realistic novel,” Iván Cárdenas says. “And there we were, without knowing anything ... Or is it that we didn’t want to know?” Trotsky accepts that “when blinded by the glitter of politics,” he was “incapable of understanding the difference between circumstantial and permanent” to the point of ignoring “the most human values.” As for his part, Mercader says, “I was a cynic,” he says, “a puppet, a wretch.”
“奥威尔颇具想象力的未来主义寓言《1984》最终变成了严峻的现实主义小说，”伊万·卡迪纳斯说，“而我们却一无所知…或者是我们根本就不想知道？”托洛茨基承认，“当被政治的光芒闪花了双眼时，”他“无法理解间接与永恒的区别”，以至于忽视了“最基本的人性价值”。而麦卡德尔对自己角色的判断则是“我是一个厌世者，”他说，“一个傀儡，一个倒霉蛋。”
In the context of a plot that revisits the grim mockery of Stalin’s show trials, these acts of compulsive self-incrimination are not only loaded with significance but are also — given that Mr. Padura is a Cuban author writing in Cuba — charged with an additional layer of meaning.
小说的情节不时触及斯大林发起的阴暗而虚伪的“莫斯科公审”；在这样的背景下，这些强迫症般的自我控罪行为显得颇具深意。而作者帕杜拉仍旧身处古巴，更赋予上述描写新一层涵义。
Fidel Castro’s most scandalous show trial was not mounted against a political figure but against a writer: Heberto Padilla. In 1971, after 38 days of detention, Mr. Padilla was forced to “confess” at the Cuban writers’ union to the charges of “subversive activities.” He had published a book of poems faintly critical of the regime.
在菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)发起的最臭名昭著的政治审判中，受审的并非任何政治人物，而是一位作家：赫伯托·帕迪亚(Herberto Padilla)。1971年，帕迪亚在被监禁38天之后，被迫在古巴作家联盟承认了从事“颠覆行为”的指控。此前，他不过出版了一本对当局略有微词的诗集而已。
I don’t know if all this self-incrimination is part of the novel because Mr. Padura wants to make the point that in Cuba, writing is an activity fraught with fear, or because it is the involuntary reflex of someone who has awaited the day of his own political trial. In any case, it stands as a clear register of the author’s circumstance: Cuba may be the last place in the Americas where being a writer means living in terror.
我不清楚，通过对这些自我控罪行为的描写，作者帕杜拉是否试图说明写作在古巴是一件充满了恐惧的事，或是他想到自己未来也可能遭到政治审判而做出的下意识的反应。无论如何，这是对作者本人情形的清晰写照：在整个美洲，古巴是最后一个作家会整日生活在恐惧中的国家。
Ms. Kushner’s rendering of the novel in English brilliantly demonstrates her loyalty to the author’s voice. She nudges the English to give it a Cuban tone, respectful of the brutal efficiency of Mr. Padura’s Spanish, while never sacrificing the lyrical flourishes with which he occasionally bedazzles his readers.
库什纳女士的英译本充分表现了她对原著风格的充实。她对英文加以修饰，令其具有古巴风味，既尊重了作者帕杜拉的西班牙语原文犀利简洁的风格，又从未牺牲偶尔出现的辞藻华彩的片段。