SAN FRANCISCO — Google, which dominates much of life on the Internet, has been trying to expand beyond computers and telephones to living rooms, cars and bodies. It made its way a bit further into people’s homes on Monday when it agreed to pay $3.2 billion in cash for Nest Labs, which makes Internet-connected devices like thermostats and smoke alarms.
旧金山——谷歌(Google)掌控着互联网的诸多领域，一直以来，该公司试图把业务从电脑和电话扩展到起居室、汽车和人体。周一，它同意以32亿美元（约合193亿元人民币）的现金收购制造恒温控制器和烟雾警报器等联网设备的Nest Labs，由此朝着进入人们的住宅又迈进了一步。
Nest, which was started in 2010 by Tony Fadell and Matt Rogers, members of the teams that built the iPhone and iPod at Apple, will continue to operate independently under its own brand and expand its portfolio of connected versions of what it calls “unloved but important devices in the home.” Mr. Fadell, Nest’s chief executive, will report to Larry Page, co-founder and chief executive of Google.
2010年，Nest由苹果公司(Apple)iPhone和iPod开发团队的成员托尼·法德尔(Tony Fadell)和马特·罗杰斯(Matt Rogers)创立。该公司将继续使用自己的品牌，独立运营，并更多地开发它所谓的“家中不受喜欢但却颇为重要的设备”的联网版本。Nest的首席执行官法德尔将向谷歌联合创始人及首席执行官拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)汇报工作。
Internet companies are vying to be the gateway through which people live every aspect of their lives — whether searching, socializing, reading, shopping, exercising or sleeping. Their businesses, particularly advertising, are built on watching the way people behave online. For Google, gaining visibility into people’s habits beyond computers and phones — whether watching television using Chromecast, taking a walk wearing Google Glass or managing their homes using Nest products — will provide a fuller picture of users.
目前，互联网公司正在争相成为人们生活的各个方面的主导——不论是搜索、社交、阅读、购物、锻炼还是睡眠。它们的业务，尤其是广告，都建立在通过网络来观察人们的行为之上。对于谷歌而言，用电脑和电话以外的手段了解人们的习惯——不论是用Chromecast观看电视、戴着谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)走路，还是用Nest的产品管理住宅——会让他们对用户拥有更全面的了解。
“Google likes to know everything they can about us, so I suppose devices that are monitoring what’s going on in our homes is another excellent way for them to gather that information,” said Danny Sullivan, a longtime Google analyst and a founding editor of Search Engine Land. “The more they’re tied into our everyday life, the more they feel they can deliver products we’ll like and ads.”
“谷歌希望竭尽所能地全面了解我们，所以我认为，这些能够对我们家里的情况进行监测的设备，是他们搜集信息的另一种好办法，”搜索引擎天地(Search Engine Land)创始编辑、长年研究谷歌的丹尼·沙利文(Danny Sullivan)说。“他们与我们日常生活的联系越密切，就越会觉得自己能提供我们将会喜欢的产品和广告。”
Nest’s products track not just a home’s temperature and the presence of smoke but also when people wake up, leave and return home. By incorporating hardware and software and using sensors and algorithms to learn behavior, they program themselves and can be controlled remotely with a smartphone.
Nest的产品不仅可以记录室内的气温和烟雾的存在，而且还可以记录人们醒来、离开和回到家中的时间。通过软硬件的结合，并利用传感器和算法进行行为学习，它们可以自行设定程序，而且还可以用智能手机来遥控它们。
Mr. Fadell said in an interview that he was aware of concerns among customers about Google having so much data about people, and that Google agreed that Nest’s privacy policy — which says that Nest will use customer information only to improve its products and services — would remain unchanged. “That was a major concern or question we had, and they have done an amazing job of convincing us that our privacy policies are going to be well-respected in their organization,” he said.
法德尔在采访中表示，他知道顾客对谷歌拥有人们如此多的数据感到担心，但是谷歌同意不改变Nest的隐私政策，即Nest只会用客户的信息来改进其产品和服务。他说，“这曾是我们担心的一个重要方面或者说是问题，但他们非常有力地说服我们，他们的机构将极大地尊重我们的隐私政策。”
Still, Mr. Sullivan said, “History has shown that privacy policies do change.” He added, “They won’t hand over Nest data to Google, and Google mines it for whatever they want, but there could be incentives or reasons why it might make sense to tie it to a Google account.”
然而，沙利文说，“过去的事实证明，隐私政策确实会发生变化。”他还说，“他们不会把Nest的数据交给谷歌，任由谷歌在其中挖掘他们想要的任何信息，但可能出现一些理由和好处，让用户将其设备与谷歌账号相绑定。”
It is easy to see how Google products could be integrated into Nest. For instance, Nest users who log in to Google could theoretically someday see their home’s temperature or an alert about the presence of smoke in Google Now or in gmail, and information about a person’s home life could be used to target ads.
不难看出谷歌的产品会如何被融入Nest。比如，从理论上来说，有一天，登陆谷歌的Nest用户能通过Google Now或Gmail查看家里的温度，或是收到家里有烟雾出现的警报。而有关个人家庭生活的信息则可以用来确定广告。
Google and Nest declined to comment on future plans because the deal has not yet closed.
谷歌和Nest拒绝就未来的计划发表评论，因为交易尚未完成。
Creating the so-called connected home through products like Nest’s is a major goal for the technology industry, even if it has not yet made its way into the mainstream. Apple, Philips, Bose, Dropcam and Lively, among others, make Internet-connected devices to dim lights, close garage doors, listen to music or keep an eye on family members or pets with sensors or live video. Still, just 1 or 2 percent of people have common connected devices, and while a third say they are interested in connecting their homes, almost half say they are not, according to Forrester, a technology research firm.
尽管还没成为主流，但通过Nest等公司的类似产品打造所谓的互联家居是科技业的重要目标。苹果(Apple)、飞利浦(Philips)、Bose、Dropcam和Lively等公司制造了与互联网连接的设备，以实现调暗灯光、关车库门、听音乐或通过传感器或视频直播照看家人或宠物的目标。然而，据科技研究公司弗雷斯特(Forrester)称，拥有共同互联的设备的人只有1%到2%，而且，尽管三分之一的人称对把住宅和网络连接起来很感兴趣，但也有几乎一半人表示不感兴趣。
“I think we’re at the beginning of the industry hype cycle but not at the beginning of mainstream consumer adoption,” said Frank E. Gillett, a Forrester analyst.
“我觉得我们现在正处在行业炒作周期的初始阶段，而不是主流消费开始采纳的阶段，”弗雷斯特的分析师弗兰克·E·吉莱特(Frank E. Gillett)说。
Nest, which had raised $180 million from investors, including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Shasta Ventures and Google Ventures, was seeking late last year to raise an additional round of financing at a valuation over $2 billion, according to two people briefed on the fund-raising. Unlike many of Silicon Valley’s most popular companies that make software that costs very little to build, Nest is capital-intensive because it builds hardware.
Nest此前已从包括凯鹏华盈(Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers)、夏斯塔风投(Shasta Ventures)、谷歌风投(Google Ventures)在内的投资者那里筹集到了1.8亿美元。但据两位熟悉融资内情的人称，去年年底，估值超过20亿美元的Nest希望再进行一轮融资。硅谷许多颇受欢迎的公司都是从事成本低廉的软件生产的，Nest则不同，它是一家资本密集型企业，因为它要生产硬件。
Though it was not looking to be acquired, these people said, Google approached the company with an acquisition offer and the resources to expand more quickly than it could on its own.
这些人说，Nest没打算被收购，但谷歌找上门来提出收购意向，并带去了资源。有了这些资源，公司的扩张速度会比自己单打独斗快。
“What this is really about is accelerating a decade-old vision,” Mr. Fadell said. Despite the Nest founders’ long history and shared values with Apple, a main Google rival, it was not a serious contender to acquire the company, the people said. “This is not an us versus them kind of thing,” Mr. Fadell said.
“此举的真正意义是加速实现已制定了十年的愿景，”法德尔说。这些人说，尽管Nest的创始人和谷歌的劲敌苹果有很深的渊源和相同的价值观，但苹果并没有真正参与到收购争夺中来。“这里面不存在什么敌我的关系，”法德尔说。
Google has talked about connecting home devices, known as the Internet of Things, for several years, but has made little traction. Still it has been expanding beyond its search engine roots into hardware, including through its $13 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility and its development of devices like Google Glass, the Internet-connected eyewear, and Chromecast, for Internet-connected television. It also recently acquired companies that make robots and gesture-recognition technology.
关于把家里的设备连接起来，即物联网，谷歌已经讨论了好几年了，但没有得到太多认同。该公司依然还在努力从搜索引擎的传统向硬件领域扩张，比如出资130亿美元收购摩托罗拉移动(Motorola Mobility)，以及开发像联网眼镜设备谷歌眼镜和联网电视Chromecast这样的产品。谷歌前不久还收购了多家制造机器人和研究手势识别技术的公司。
Though Google once differentiated itself from Apple by giving software to hardware developers, like Android for mobile phones, instead of making the hardware itself, the Nest acquisition is part of a shift away from that strategy. “The way you’re going to change the home is not just through software and services, you’re going to have to change the fundamental products people interact with, and they understand that,” Mr. Fadell said. “They’re moving the entire company that way.”
谷歌曾经是一个向硬件开发商提供软件的公司，比如移动电话使用的Android系统，而不是自己生产硬件。这也是谷歌有别于苹果的地方。但收购Nest属于偏离这种战略的一次行动。“改变家居环境不仅要通过软件和设备来实现，还必须改变和人打交道的基础产品，他们清楚这一点，”法德尔说，“他们正在带领整个公司往这个方向发展。”