LAST weekend in Fair Harbor, N.Y., on Fire Island, a few dozen children gathered on the boardwalk for the local tradition of selling lemonade, baked goods and painted seashells to passers-by at sunset. Among the children was Julia Colen, a 12-year-old vacationer from New Jersey, who in addition to hawking cupcakes and drinks was presiding over a stand overflowing with brightly colored bracelets. Julia and a friend had made the jewelry out of tiny rubber bands, using a crafts kit called Rainbow Loom.
上周末，在纽约州火岛的费尔湾(Fair Harbor)，几十个孩子傍晚聚集在木板人行道上，向行人兜售柠檬汽水、烘焙食品和涂了油彩的贝壳，这是当地的传统。来自新泽西州的度假者、12岁的朱莉娅·科伦(Julia Colen)也是其中的一员，除了大声叫卖纸杯蛋糕和饮料外，她还掌管着一家小摊，上面摆满色彩亮丽的手环。朱莉和一位朋友用一种名为“彩虹织机”(Rainbow Loom)的手工套件和小小的橡皮筋制作了这些首饰。
“We had a lot, at least 100,” Julia estimated of their inventory, which they priced at $1 to $2 apiece. Sales were impressive that night — “we made like $68,” she said.
朱莉娅估计了一下她们的存货，“我们有许多货，至少有100条。”每条腕带的售价是1到2美元（约合12.2元人民币）。那一晚的销售业绩不错——“我们赚了大约68美元，”她说。
Julia is among hundreds of thousands of youngsters — and parents — in the United States who are using Rainbow Loom. The kit consists of two plastic template boards, a hook, 24 plastic clips and 600 multicolored mini rubber bands. From it, 24 bracelets can be woven into patterns similar to those traditionally used in lanyards and friendship bracelets, but more complex and colorful.
美国有数以十万计的年轻人和父母在使用彩虹织机，朱莉娅正是其中之一。这个套件包括两个塑料模板，一枚钩针、24个塑料别针和600条颜色各异的迷你橡皮筋。用这一套东西可以编织24个手环，图案与友谊手环所用的传统图案类似，不过更加复杂，色彩也更丰富。
Rainbow Loom is the invention of Cheong Choon Ng , a Malaysian immigrant of Chinese descent with a graduate degree in mechanical engineering. He came up with the idea in 2010 and began selling the kit while employed as a crash-test engineer for Nissan.
彩虹织机是吴昌俊（Cheong Choon Ng，音译）的发明，他是一名华裔马来西亚移民，有机械工程学本科学位。他在2010年萌发了制作彩虹织机的想法，并开始销售这种套件，当时他是日产汽车公司(Nissan)的碰撞测试工程师。
In the past year, Rainbow Loom’s popularity has soared, spurring hundreds of YouTube fan videos and scores of so-called kidpreneurs like Julia. Now Mr. Ng is overseeing a rapidly growing company that he started from his living room in Novi, Mich.
过去一年里，彩虹织机的人气一路飙升，在YouTube上催生了数百个粉丝视频和大量像朱莉娅这样的所谓的儿童创业者。现在，吴昌俊正在管理一家迅速壮大的公司，他在位于密歇根州诺维的自家起居室里创建了这家公司。
Rainbow Loom began as Mr. Ng’s attempt to impress his two daughters, Teresa, now 15, and Michelle, now 12. One afternoon, the girls were making bracelets out of small rubber bands, and when Mr. Ng tried to join in, he found that his fingers were too big. He went to work creating a wooden board with push pins, which helped improve his dexterity but was too bulky to win his daughters’ approval.
一开始发明彩虹织机时，吴昌俊是为了打动他的女儿，她们是现年15岁的特蕾莎(Teresa)和12岁的米歇尔(Michelle)。某个下午，女孩们在用小小的橡皮筋制作手环，当时，吴昌俊想加入到她们当中，却发现他的手指太大了。他设法制作了一个带图钉的木板，这个工具帮助他提高了灵巧性，不过，它太笨重了，没法赢得女儿们的认可。
Mr. Ng persisted, adding rows of pins. “I was putting pins on two and three and four rows, crisscrossing the rubber bands and making big bracelets,” he said. Finally, the girls were hooked, and they began to use the board to make gifts for friends and neighbors.
吴昌俊没有放弃，他往工具里加入了一排排的图钉。他说，“我装了两排、三排到四排的图钉，把橡皮筋在上面绕来绕去，制作成大号的腕带。”最终，女儿们被吸引住了，她们开始使用木板，为朋友和邻居制作腕带。
IT was Teresa who later suggested that her dad try to manufacture and sell the loom. His engineering background, which includes product design, quality control and manufacturing experience, provided a solid foundation for the project, and his brother, Cheong Yeow Ng, an engineer and inventor living in Wichita, Kan., encouraged him to sell the product online.
是特蕾莎后来建议她的父亲设法制造并销售织机的。他有着融产品设计、质量控制和生产经验于一体的工程学背景，这给该项目提供了坚实的基础，而且他的哥哥、居住在堪萨斯州威奇托的工程师兼发明家吴昌耀（Cheong Yeow Ng，音译），也鼓励他在网上销售这种产品。
As with many new ventures, the first challenge was financial. “All we had saved to invest was $10,000,” Mr. Ng said.
和许多新尝试一样，项目面临的第一个挑战是资金。吴昌俊说，“我们能投入的全部存款只有1万美元。”
When he found that his budget was too small for American manufacturers, he began vetting some in China. He sank $5,000 into the molding for the template and the other $5,000 into the kit’s parts.
他得出结论，他的预算对美国工厂来说太少。于是，他开始考虑中国的工厂。他投入了5000美元，用于制作模板模具，又投入另外的5000美元，用于制作套件的部件。
A shipment of 2,000 pounds of rubber bands arrived at the family’s home in the summer of 2011. Mr. Ng assembled kits after arriving home from the office at night; his wife, Tyng Fen Chan, worked on them during the day.
2011年夏天，重达2000磅的橡皮筋被运抵他的家。吴昌俊下班回家后在夜里组装套件；他的妻子陈亭芬（Tyng Fen Chan，音译）则在白天做。
They had limited success selling Rainbow Loom online, and their early attempts at placing it in major toy stores fell flat. Part of the problem was that people didn’t know what to make of the newfangled toy. To educate potential customers, Mr. Ng and his daughters posted instructional videos on YouTube, and he bought Google ads to help spread the word.
彩虹织机的网上销售不算太成功，起初他们试图把织机放在大型玩具店销售，也不了了之。部分原因在于，人们不知道如何使用这种新奇的玩具。为了培养潜在的顾客，吴昌俊和他的女儿在YouTube上张贴了指导视频，他还购买了Google(谷歌)广告做宣传。
In the summer of 2012, Mr. Ng’s luck changed. The owner of a Learning Express Toys store, a chain of 130 franchises, placed an order for 24 looms, and, two days later, she called to reorder. Soon, other Learning Express Toys stores were clamoring for Rainbow Looms. The key to selling the kits, it turned out, was educating buyers about how to use them. Specialty toy and craft stores were just the place for loom demonstrations and classes.
2012年夏天，吴昌俊转运了。一家 “学习快车玩具” (Learning Express Toys)专卖店的老板订了24台彩虹织机，而且两天后，她又打电话再次订了货。这个专卖连锁店有130家店铺。不久，其他的“学习快车玩具”店铺也开始进货彩虹织机。原来，销售这个产品的关键在于培训买家如何使用它，专门的玩具和工艺品商店正是适合展示织机产品和培训买家的地方。 
For Gary and Molly Fitzpatrick, who own two Learning Express Toys stores in Ohio and one in Michigan, the Rainbow Loom has been a boon for their franchises. “It’s a substantial portion of our business right now,” Mr. Fitzpatrick said. The kit is listed as one of the top toys of the summer of 2013 on the chain’s Web site.
加里和莫莉·菲茨帕特里克(Gary and Molly Fitzpatrick)在俄亥俄州有两家、密歇根州有一家“学习快车玩具”专卖店，彩虹织机已经成为了这些店铺的福音。菲茨帕特里克说：“它占了我们销售额的很大一部分。”在这个连锁店的网站上，彩虹织机被列为2013年夏天最受欢迎的玩具之一。 
The Ngs initially called on friends and neighbors to help assemble the product, but now that work is done in China. Mr. Ng, who left his job at Nissan last fall, manages a staff of 12 and rents a 7,500-square-foot warehouse near his home to handle distribution. In all, 600 retailers carry Rainbow Loom, and just over one million units have been sold at a retail price of $15 to $17 each.
吴昌俊最初请朋友和邻居帮忙组装产品，不过现在，这部分工作已经转移到了中国。吴昌俊去年秋天从日产公司辞职，现在他手下有12个人，他还在家附近租了一个7500平方英尺（约697平方米）的仓库来处理分销工作。目前总共有600家零售商销售彩虹织机，并且已经以15美元至17美元的零售价销售了逾一百万套。 
The Rainbow Loom has thrived at summer camps, many of which prohibit electronics. And beyond selling bracelets instead of lemonade, children have been busily posting how-to videos online. One YouTube user named Ashley has uploaded four such videos; the most popular, in which she explains how to make what she calls “a starburst bracelet,” has attracted around 450,000 views since Aug. 1. The official Rainbow Loom videos have garnered a total of 4.6 million views.
彩虹织机在夏令营里很受欢迎，很多夏令营都禁止使用电子产品。孩子们不仅用卖手环来代替卖柠檬水，而且还忙着在YouTube上张贴“教学”视频。一个名为阿什利(Ashley)的用户已经上传了四个这样的视频；其中人气最高的一个视频，是她解释如何制作她所说的“星暴手环”，自8月1日以来已经吸引了约45万人次的观看量。官方的彩虹织机视频已经获得了总共460万人次的观看量。 
But like any new product in a competitive market, the Rainbow Loom faces challenges, including the tendency of children’s toys to fade in popularity. To keep his brand relevant, Mr. Ng is focusing on innovation.
但是，和竞争激烈的市场中的任何新产品一样，彩虹织机也面临着挑战，其中包括儿童玩具流行度下降的趋势。为了让自己的品牌在市场上长盛不衰，吴昌俊把注意力集中在了创新上。 
“I am working on new tools to make more exciting rubber bands and more bracelet patterns,” he said. “I’m also expanding into designing accessories.”
“我正在研发新的工具，制作出更加让人兴奋的橡皮筋手环和手环图样，”他说，“我还在向配饰设计领域进军。” 
Rainbow Loom has drawn comparisons to Silly Bandz, the springy rubber bands that were ubiquitous on children’s wrists several years ago. That company’s founder has branched out into watches and other types of jewelry and has formed partnerships with brands like Angry Birds and Barbie for themed bracelets.
一些人已经在把彩虹织机跟几年前在孩子中风靡一时的傻瓜皮筋(Silly Bandz)橡皮筋相提并论。傻瓜皮筋公司的创始人已经把业务扩展到手表和其他类型的珠宝上，并跟“愤怒的小鸟”(Angry Birds)和“芭比”(Barbie)等品牌形成了合作伙伴关系，生产相关主题的手环。 
IF Rainbow Loom attracts imitators, the key to keeping them at bay is having “a secret sauce” that no one else can replicate, according to Bill Aulet, managing director of the Martin Trust Center for M.I.T. Entrepreneurship and a senior lecturer at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. Rainbow Loom’s community of enthusiasts could be just that sauce.
比尔·奥莱特(Bill Aulet)说，一旦彩虹织机引来模仿者，阻止它们的关键就在于彩虹织机要拥有没有人可以复制的“秘密武器”。他是马丁·特拉斯特麻省理工创业中心下的(Martin Trust Center for M.I.T. Entrepreneurship)的总经理，也是麻省理工学院斯隆管理学院(M.I.T. Sloan School of Management)的高级讲师。彩虹织机的秘密武器，可能就是热情高涨的爱好者群体。 
“If there’s a whole ecosystem around this product, and it becomes very profitable, then someone would very likely come in and buy it,” Mr. Aulet said of Mr. Ng’s company.
“如果围绕这个产品形成完全的生态系统，而且盈利状况很好，那么很可能会有人想来收购它，”奥莱谈到吴昌俊的公司时说。 
Aside from that possibility, Mr. Aulet said he believes that outside help will be required to expand the business.
除了这种可能性之外，奥莱还说，他认为该公司拓展业务需要外界的帮助。 
“He’ll need muscle of some sort,” Mr. Aulet said. “He’ll need a stronger team, more money, more expertise, partnerships. The complexity goes up exponentially as he starts to go national. It’s a whole new game.”
“他需要某种形式的帮助，”奥莱说。“他需要强大的团队，更多的资金，更多的专业知识，以及合伙人。随着他的业务在全国范围内拓展，经营的复杂性也将呈几何级数增加。这是一个全新的游戏。”