Ben Affleck caught some flak earlier this year when, in the course of his Oscar-night thank-yous, in front of a billion of his closest friends, he referred to his marriage to Jennifer Garner as “work.” Matrimony, at least among the famous, is not supposed to be that way. It is either a magical storybook dream, breathlessly chronicled in supermarket magazines, or else, in those same pages a few years later, a train wreck of betrayal and heartbreak. Hollywood marriage, like so much else in modern celebrity culture, is both aspirational and cautionary.
今年年初本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)遭到了一些抨击，因为他在奥斯卡颁奖礼上致感谢辞的时候，当着10亿最亲密的朋友，称他与詹妮弗·加纳(Jennifer Garner)的婚姻是“工作”。婚姻，至少名人的婚姻，不应该是这样的。名人的婚姻要么美妙得像故事书中的美梦，被超市杂志不停报道；要么几年之后因背叛而触礁，让人心碎，而且还是出现在那些杂志上面。好莱坞的婚姻像现代名人文化的其他方面一样，既令人振奋，也让人警醒。
Mr. Affleck was scolded for being ungallant, but he was guilty, at worst, of a humblebrag. His remarks seem to have been a hurried, earnest attempt to show that he and Ms. Garner (who have been married for eight years and have three children together) are just like everybody else. The phrase “marriage is work” rolled easily off his tongue partly because it represents the conventional wisdom of the moment. The idea that lifetime love equals long-term labor pops up in rehearsal-dinner and anniversary-party toasts, and in parental advice and pastoral counseling sessions. It is one of those kernels of common sense that always seems to go without saying, but that also somehow requires constant reiteration.
人们指责阿弗莱克这样说很冷酷，但是他的罪过最多也就是“谦虚为虚，自夸为实”。他这样说似乎是急于表明他和加纳（结婚8年，有3个孩子）和其他人一样。“婚姻是工作”这句话轻松地从他嘴里说出来，其中一个原因是它代表了当前的传统智慧。一生的爱等同于长期的工作这种观念出现在婚礼排演晚餐和结婚周年纪念派对的祝词中，出现在父母建议和教牧辅导中。它是一种常识，是不言自明的，但是不知为何它也需要被不断提起。
You hear it said so often that you may never stop to wonder what it means. It’s not as if our attitudes about work are any simpler than our notions of marriage. Work can be thankless or productive, a sacrifice or a reason to get out of bed in the morning, the cornerstone of a worthwhile life or a crucible of exploitation. Which of those is marriage supposed to be?
这句话你听得太多了，你可能从来不会停下来想想它到底是什么意思。我们对工作的态度似乎并不比我们对婚姻的观念更简单。工作可能是吃力不讨好，也可能富有成效；可能是一种牺牲，也可能是你早上起床的动力；可能是有意义的人生的基石，也可能是残酷的剥削。那婚姻应该是上述的哪种情况呢？
To say that marriage is work is to insist, above all, that it is not static. Far from a condition of smiling serenity or unvarying habit, wedlock, in the modern imagination, is supposed to be dynamic, active and interesting. In old movies and TV shows, marriage, when it was not upheld as a romantic ideal, was usually portrayed either as a state of dull stability or endless drudgery. That it turned out to be work was presented as a “realistic” or mocking rebuke to the expectation of bliss.
说婚姻是工作首先是坚决认为它不是静态的。婚姻绝不是微笑的宁静或者一成不变的习惯，在现代人的幻想中，它应该是动态的、活跃的、有趣的。在老电影和电视剧中，婚姻有时会被描绘成浪漫的完美状态，不过通常是被描绘成一种无趣的静止状态或者是无休无止的苦差事。把它比喻成工作代表了对幸福期待的“现实的”或者嘲弄的谴责。
But in film and television, work and wedded bliss are now synonymous: the harder marriage is, the more romantic it seems.
但是在电影和电视中，工作和婚姻幸福如今是同义词：辛苦的婚姻似乎更浪漫。
We know, and for the most part accept, that many people, including gay people, will marry more than once or not at all. The institution of marriage survives as a choice — as a range of choices — rather than a single norm. Some effort — of assembly, maintenance and completion — is required, and the effort is what justifies the choice.
我们知道，总的来说也承认，很多人，包括同性恋者，会多次结婚或者根本不结婚。婚姻制度不再是单一的规范，而只是多种选择中的一个。有些努力是必需的——就像工作那样，需要“组装、维修和完善”——这些努力证明这个选择是对的。
And yet at the same time, marriage remains a romantic projection, a utopian realm in which all our contending unruly drives find simultaneous and permanent fulfillment in a world of transience. Sex, security, prosperity, the conquest of loneliness and a nifty reproductive end-run around mortality: all of this is promised in the advertising copy, if not precisely guaranteed in the fine print of the contract.
与此同时，婚姻仍是一个浪漫的规划，一个空想的国度，在这个空想的国度里，我们所有相互争斗的任性的冲动能够在无常的世界中同时永远实现。性爱、安全感、成功、克服孤独以及为了回避死亡而巧妙地繁衍后代：所有这些都只在广告文案中得以许诺，但在正式的合同中却不能完全保证。
Wedded bliss is a nice idea, but it does not usually produce a satisfying narrative. In “I Do and I Don’t,” her new study of Hollywood’s ambivalent relationship to marriage from the silent era to the present, the film historian Jeanine Basinger observes that “marriage has no story arc.”
婚姻幸福是个美好的构思，但是它通常不能变成令人满意的故事。电影史专家雅尼娜·贝辛杰(Jeanine Basinger)的新书《我愿意，我不愿意》(I Do and I Don’t)研究的是自默片时代至今好莱坞与婚姻之间矛盾的关系，她发现“婚姻没有故事情节”。
A marriage plot, which is to say a comedy, is a story with a wedding at the end. The exchange of vows provides a satisfying and efficient exit from an intricate story. After the chaos of misbehavior, misunderstanding and missed connection, order is restored, the curtain falls, and love’s essential labor is done. But if the story starts in the middle, sometime after the honeymoon, at the breakfast table or the parent-teacher conference, where then does it conclude? There are only two logical possibilities, both of them sad.
婚姻故事——如果这个故事是喜剧的话——就是一个以结婚收场的故事。交换誓言给一个复杂的故事提供了一个令人满意的、有效的出口。在经历了行为不当、误解和错失等混乱之后，一切恢复正常，大幕落下，爱情最关健的工作完成了。但是如果故事从中间开始，从蜜月之后的某个时间开始，在早餐桌边或者家长会上开始，那它该如何结尾呢？只有两种可能的结尾，这两种结尾都很悲哀。
Michael Haneke’s “Amour,” a prizewinner at Cannes and at the Oscars last year, is one of the few recent movies about the end of a long, happy marriage, in other words a chronicle of illness, death and bereavement happening to Georges and Ann, a lovely, loving pair of classical musicians. Its devastating honesty scared some people away, and many of those who saw it emerged with the dazed, righteous glow of having gone through an ordeal in the service of art. The marriage in that film, like the film itself, was a masterwork, as formally precise and harmonious as the Schubert on the soundtrack.
迈克尔·哈内克(Michael Haneke)的《爱》(Amour)是今年戛纳电影节和去年奥斯卡的获奖影片。它是最近为数不多的几部关于漫长、幸福婚姻结束的电影中的其中一部，换句话说，它纪录了发生在可爱的、相亲相爱的古典音乐家乔治斯(Georges)和安(Ann)身上的疾病、死亡和丧亲的事情。这部电影令人震惊的诚实吓跑了一些人，很多看过这部电影的人产生了一种经受艺术煎熬的茫然而又正当的喜悦。其中的婚姻，像这部电影本身一样，是杰作，像电影配乐中舒伯特的乐曲一样精准而和谐。
Very few films attempt — much less achieve — that kind of tragic perfection. And most married couples, it might be added, do not live in spacious Parisian apartments whose every floorboard creaks with refinement and decorum.
极少有电影尝试表现那种伤感的完美，最终能成功将其表现出来的更是少之又少。还有一点就是，大多数夫妇居住的地方远不像电影中宽敞的巴黎公寓那么优美，那个公寓的每块地板发出的吱嘎声都那么优雅、美妙。
Richard Linklater’s new film “Before Midnight” probably comes closer to the messy delights and petty frustrations of modern monogamy. Though the central couple, Celine and Jesse, live in Paris and are vacationing in Greece with their young children, their cosmopolitanism registers less than their talky, twitchy, push-and-pull ordinariness. And though the film’s title foreshadows an end, its plot is almost all middle.
理查德·林克莱特(Richard Linklater)的新电影《爱在午夜降临前》(Before Midnight)很可能比较接近现代一夫一妻制生活中混乱的快乐和琐碎的挫折。虽然剧中的主人公塞琳娜(Celine)和杰西(Jesse)住在巴黎，和孩子们在希腊度假，他们身上展现出来的不是世界主义，而更多的是喋喋不休的、焦躁不安的、拉拉扯扯的平淡。虽然片名预示着结束，但是影片却几乎都在讲述中间发生的故事。
Celine and Jesse, first encountered in their 20s in 1995’s “Before Sunrise” and reunited nine years later in “Before Sunset,” are now in middle age. Their relationship (not technically a marriage) has survived its sweet, abandoned beginning and its surprising reprise, and acquired an air of permanence.
塞琳娜和杰西初次相遇是在1995年的《爱在黎明破晓前》(Before Sunrise)中，那时他们20多岁；9年之后他们在《日落之前》(Before Sunset)中再次重逢；现在他们人到中年。他们的关系（他们并没有结婚）经历了甜蜜但被放弃的开始，令人惊喜的重逢，现在有了一种永恒的感觉。
And yet the end of the movie is an existential and emotional cliffhanger. As the day turns to night, Celine and Jesse’s bantering and bickering blossoms into a full-blown fight, a crisis that makes them (and the viewer) wonder if they can recover, and maybe also whether they should.
但是这部电影却有一个存在主义的、令人激动的、吊人胃口的结局。当夜幕降临，塞琳娜和杰西善意的取笑和吵闹演变成了彻底的争吵，这种危机让他们（以及观众）怀疑他们还能不能和好，甚至在想他们到底应不应该再和好。
Celine worries that her job at an environmental nonprofit in Paris is threatened by Jesse’s desire to move to Chicago to be closer to his son from a previous marriage. Behind this practical concern lie stark and frequently unspoken resentments and divisions. Celine is acutely aware that, even in sophisticated 21st-century partnerships like theirs, sexist habits and assumptions persist. The most vivid illustration of this comes not in any conversation she and Jesse have, but in an extended sequence during which she and the other women in the film prepare a meal in the kitchen while Jesse and the men sit out on the terrace, smoking and talking philosophy.
杰西想搬到芝加哥，离他跟前妻生的儿子更近，但是塞琳娜担心这会使她丢掉在巴黎非盈利环保组织的工作。在这个现实的顾虑背后，还存在着明显的、通常没有明说的怨恨和分歧。塞琳娜清醒地意识到，即使在他们这样复杂的21世纪的伴侣关系中，男性至上的习惯和观念依然存在。最能体现这一点的，不是她和杰西的哪段对话，而是其中一个长镜头：她和其他女人们在厨房准备食物，而杰西和其他男人们坐在阳台上，抽烟，谈论哲学。
When the specter of infidelity arises later, in the midst of the fight that starts out about something else, it is connected to Jesse’s professional life: Celine suspects him of cheating while on a book tour. Her specific anger about that episode is connected to other feelings of competitiveness and resentment that are no less intense for being hard to articulate.
塞琳娜和杰西因为别的事情开始争吵，在争吵的过程中，塞琳娜出现了杰西对她不忠的幻觉，这与杰西的职业有关：塞琳娜怀疑他在一次宣传新书的途中背叛了她。她对此感到特别愤怒，跟竞争和怨恨等其他感觉有关，这些感觉也很强烈，很难描述。
The flirtation that began 18 years before on a train to Vienna and resumed in Paris — a prickly and contentious meeting of minds and hearts — has hardened into a power struggle. And the negotiation of power is what gives substance to modern marriage stories, whether comic or dramatic.
18年前在去维也纳的火车上开始，而后在巴黎延续的调情是思想和心灵的对撞——其间不乏尖锐的争论——如今已经演变成了更强硬的力量角逐。力量博弈给现代婚姻故事带来了实质性内容，不管是喜剧故事还是戏剧故事。
“We’re just like Ricky and Lucy,” Michael Douglas’s Liberace says to Matt Damon’s Scott Thorson in “Behind the Candelabra,” Steven Soderbergh’s recent HBO film about their long love affair. Lee (as Liberace is known to his friends) is making fun of an argument the two lovers are having about sex, which Scott immediately understands to be about power. “How come I’m the Lucy?” he wants to know, and the answer is succinct and irrefutable. Liberace is the “bandleader,” the breadwinner, the man of the house. The husband, and therefore “the Ricky.”
在《烛台背后》(Behind the Candelabra)中，迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)饰演的李伯拉斯(Liberace)对马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)饰演的斯科特·索尔森(Scott Thorson)说，“我们就像里基(Ricky)和露西(Lucy)。”这部HBO最近出品的电影是史蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)导演的，讲述的是上述两人漫长的爱情故事。这两个恋人为性争吵时，李（李伯拉斯的朋友这样称呼他）开了这个玩笑，斯科特很快明白这跟地位有关。“为什么我是露西？”他问道。答案很简单，而且不可辩驳。李伯拉斯是“乐队领头人”，是挣钱养家的人，是家里的男人。他是丈夫，自然就是里基。
In effect Lee is saying to Scott, his much younger lover (and officially his employee), that the two of them are just like a married couple. He is eye-rollingly appalled by the notion, but of course that is exactly what they are. “Behind the Candelabra” shows that while the legal recognition and social acceptance of gay marriage may be a new (and as yet incomplete) phenomenon, the thing itself, in all but name, has been around for a long time.
实际上，李想跟斯科特——比他年轻很多的情人（名义上是他的雇员）——说的是他们两个就像一对结了婚的夫妇。他对这个想法感到震惊，虽然他们当然就是这种关系。《烛台背后》说明尽管同性恋婚姻最近才被法律认可、被社会接受（不过还不是完全被认可和接受），但是这件事本身已经存在很长时间了，只不过名义上不是这样。
And the film makes an understated but nonetheless urgent political case that the invisibility of its central relationship — in particular Lee’s refusal or inability to step out of what looks in retrospect like the most transparent closet in history — shaped its dysfunctional course and unhappy end. A ring and a license might not have curbed Lee’s domineering tendencies, but at least once it all fell apart, Scott would have been entitled to public sympathy and a share of community property.
这部电影虽然没有明说，但是却提出了一个紧急的政治警示：对他们关系本质的无视——特别是李拒绝或者没有能力公开宣布自己的同性恋身份（回头想想，这恐怕是历史上最透明的柜子了）——让他们的感情走上了歧路，并最终破裂。戒指和结婚证也许不能约束李的强势，但是一旦关系破裂，斯科特至少还能获得公众的同情，能分享共同财产。
Their invocation of a famous sitcom couple, in a movie that cunningly blends earnest domestic drama with more than one variety of camp, is freighted with meanings that ripple across more than half a century of American cultural life. To the television audience of the 1950s Ricky and Lucy Ricardo, the celebrated bandleader and his scatterbrained hausfrau, personified an ideal, and also a caricature, of heterosexual domesticity.
这部电影巧妙地把热闹的家庭戏剧与各种坎普(camp)结合了起来。片中提到情景喜剧中的这对著名夫妇承载着很多深意。这些深意半个多世纪以来一直在动摇美国文化。对20世纪50年代《里基和露西·里卡多》的观众来说，这位著名的乐队领头人和他浮躁的主妇展现了一种完美而又讽刺的异性恋家庭生活。
Along with the Cleavers, the Nelsons and the Kramdens, the Ricardos developed a genre — the household sitcom — that has proved astonishingly durable and adaptable in spite of decades of social upheaval and demographic change. Even “Modern Family,” which more than any other network series has embraced the pluralism of contemporary domesticity, is basically Ricky and Lucy in triplicate. In each of the three households in the Dunphy-Pritchett constellation, there is a sole breadwinner and a stay-at-home spouse. Occasional attempts to break out of this mold, or expressions of discomfort with the arrangement, provide fuel for some of the show’s funniest jokes, like Cameron’s mixed feelings about his status as the designated “mom.”
里卡多夫妇和克利弗夫妇(Cleavers)、纳尔逊夫妇(Nelsons)以及克拉姆登夫妇(Kramdens)发展出了一种体裁——家庭情景喜剧。尽管这几十年社会动荡，人口特征也发生了变化，这种体裁却表现出了惊人的生命力和适应力。《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)比任何其他电视剧都更接受当代家庭生活的多元化特点，但是从根本上讲它也是里基和露西式的故事，只不过是一式三份的。在邓菲-普里切特(Dunphy-Pritchett)大家族的三个家庭中，每家都有唯一的一个挣钱养家的人和一个待在家里的配偶。想打破这种模式的几次尝试或者对这种模式不满的一些表现，成了本剧最有趣的笑料，比如卡梅隆(Cameron)对自己被指派为“妈妈”这一点表现出了复杂的情绪。
Though there is friction and exasperation in these marriages, it would not quite be accurate to describe them as “work,” and this is partly because the question of work — who does what, for what reason and with what reward — has been settled in advance. But elsewhere, the question of work is often the cause of dramatic complication. Two-career couples fuel the action on shows like “The Good Wife” and, of course, “Friday Night Lights,” a series that, for its most devoted fans, will never end because Eric and Tami Taylor will never part.
虽然这些婚姻中有摩擦和恼怒，但是把它们形容为“工作”也不太准确，其中一个原因是工作的问题——任务分配、原因以及回报——已经提前确定了。但是在其他电视剧中，工作问题经常是戏剧化纠纷的导火索。在《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)和《胜利之光》(Friday Night Lights)中，双方都工作的夫妇是推动情节发展的动力。对《胜利之光》的大部分热心观众来说，这部电视剧永远都不会结束，因为艾利克和塔米·泰勒(Eric and Tami Taylor)永远都不会分开。
Tami and Eric were never complacent, never predictable, and for those reasons, real in a way that very few small-screen couples have been. Jim Halpert and Pam Beesly seemed that way before their marriage: their long, bumpy courtship was one of the things that gave the first seasons of the American version of “The Office” a sweetness that its British model pointedly lacked, and their wedding during Season 6 was the emotional and comic apex of the show.
塔米和艾利克永远都不满足，永远都不可预估，因此电视剧中的其他夫妇极少像他们那么真实。吉姆·哈尔佩特(Jim Halpert)和帕姆·比斯利(Pam Beesly)在婚前似乎也是那样的：他们漫长、坎坷的恋爱过程是让《办公室》(The Office)美国版的前几季充满甜蜜感的其中一个原因，而这是英国版明显缺乏的。他们在第6季上的婚礼是该剧在情绪和喜剧效果上的高潮。
And then everything fell apart. As they settled down into a happy domestic routine, with two cute children, adjoining desks and the cozy saltbox that was Jim’s childhood home, “The Office” began to slip. It grew sillier and more hectic, its characters more stridently eccentric. And Jim and Pam, the super-relatable nice folks in a suite full of clowns, turned out to be kind of awful.
然后一切都失常了。当他们开始幸福的家庭生活，生了两个可爱的孩子，拥有相邻的办公桌和舒适的盐盒式公寓（那是吉姆小时候的家）之后，《办公室》开始走下坡路。它变得更愚蠢、更喧闹，里面的人物变得更古怪。吉姆和帕姆这对非常默契的好夫妻生活在充满小丑的环境里，感觉有点糟糕。
Their contentment radiated outward as smug entitlement, as they expected their co-workers to fawn over them they way they did over each other. Some of this was intentional, as the writers cleverly exploited the tendency of other people’s private happiness to look to the rest of us like annoying complacency.
他们的满足在别人看来是自鸣得意，因为他们期望同事们也能奉承自己，就像他们彼此奉承那样。有些剧情是故意这样设计的，因为编剧们聪明地利用了这种倾向：某些人私生活的幸福在其他人看来像是恼人的自鸣得意。
But in its final run of episodes, the show was saved by the possibility that their bliss would be destroyed by Jim’s second job with a start-up company in Philadelphia. The possibility that their happiness could be shattered by diverging desires — his restless desire to achieve something beyond the walls of Dunder Mifflin, her need for help and support at home — made them real and sympathetic again. And if the solution was a bit too neat (as it might have been for Eric and Tami after she got her big professional break in Philadelphia) it nonetheless felt right, and romantic.
但是在最后几季，该剧又有了转机，因为他们的幸福可能会被吉姆的第二份工作毁掉——他想去费城的一家刚起步的公司工作。他们的幸福可能会毁于不同的需求——他一直希望能在敦德·米福林(Dunder Mifflin)公司之外的地方寻求发展，而她则需要家里有人帮助和支持她——这让他们又变得真实而令人同情。如果这个问题能够很好地解决（就像艾利克和塔米那样，假设塔米在费城的工作获得了巨大成功，他们的问题也能解决），那也会让人感觉很好、很浪漫。
In other words, it worked.
也就是说，那行得通。