Peter Liang, the former New York City police officer convicted last month in the fatal shooting of Akai Gurley, met on Thursday with Mr. Gurley’s domestic partner, lawyers said.
律师称，上个月被判杀害阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)罪名成立的前纽约市警察彼得·梁周四与格利的家庭伴侣碰面。
At the meeting, which lasted about five minutes, Mr. Liang told Mr. Gurley’s partner, Kimberly Ballinger, that he was sorry, his lawyer said.
彼得·梁的律师称，会面大概持续了5分钟，彼得·梁向格利的伴侣金伯利·巴林杰(Kimberly Ballinger)表达了自己的歉意。
The meeting came a day after the Brooklyn district attorney’s office recommended that Mr. Liang, 28, who was convicted of second-degree manslaughter, receive no prison time when he is sentenced next month. The apology was an attempt by Mr. Liang to defuse the anger and discord directed at him after Mr. Gurley’s death.
此次会面前一天，布鲁克林地区检察官发表声明，建议下月量刑时，无需判处28岁的彼得·梁入狱服刑，他在此前的庭审中被判二级过失杀人罪名成立。彼得·梁的道歉，则是试图平息格利的死亡所引发的针对梁的愤怒和各种分歧。
“He said he was very sorry, that he knows how difficult it is to lose a loved one and that this” — the shooting — “was the last thing he could have ever imagined happening,” one of Mr. Liang’s lawyers, Paul Shechtman, said.
“他说他感到非常抱歉，他知道失去心爱之人是如何的艰难，而枪击的发生是他从未想到的。”彼得·梁的一名律师保罗·谢克特曼(Paul Shechtman)说。
Ms. Ballinger in turn told Mr. Liang how the shooting had changed her life and that of her daughter with Mr. Gurley, Akaila, who is 3.
金伯利·巴林杰则告诉彼得·梁，枪击一事是如何改变了她和3岁女儿的生活。
“Ms. Ballinger responded by letting him know that because of his actions that night, she now has a 3-year-old who doesn’t have a father,” Ms. Ballinger’s lawyer, Scott Rynecki, said. “She no longer has a partner, and her life has been turned upside down. And she let him know that Akai was a good, innocent man and a good father.”
“巴林杰告诉彼得·梁，就是因为他那晚的行为，她今年3岁的女儿失去了父亲，”巴林杰的律师斯考特·赖恩基(Scott Rynecki)说。“她也永远失去了伴侣，她的生活因此发生了天翻地覆的变化。同时，她也让他知道，格利是善良无辜的，他是一位好父亲。”
Other members of Mr. Gurley’s family — his aunt, Hertencia Petersen; mother, Sylvia Palmer; and stepfather, Kenneth Palmer — reacted with outrage to the decision on Wednesday by the district attorney, Ken Thompson, to recommend five years’ probation rather than prison time in sentencing.
格利其他的家庭成员，其中包括他的姨妈赫腾西亚·彼得森(Hertencia Petersen)，母亲西尔维亚·帕尔默(Sylvia Palmer)，继父肯尼斯·帕尔默(Kenneth Palmer)，对地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)于周三发布的声明表示愤怒。该检察官建议判处彼得·梁缓刑五年而非监禁。
But Ms. Ballinger, after roughly a month of entreaties by Mr. Liang’s legal team for a meeting with her, agreed to sit down with the former officer in order to tell him directly the grief he had caused, Mr. Rynecki said.
在彼得·梁的律师团队恳求同巴林杰见面的大概一个月之后，巴林杰终于同意坐下来同前警员对话，为了直接告诉彼得·梁他造成了怎样的悲痛，赖恩基说。
A sticking point was finding a neutral meeting place; in the end they chose a conference room at the district attorney’s office, where only Ms. Ballinger, Mr. Liang and their lawyers gathered. Mr. Rynecki said Mr. Liang did not try to explain his actions on the night of the shooting in a Brooklyn housing project stairwell, in November 2014.
关键在于找到一个中立的会面地点，最后，他们选择了地区检察官办公室中的一个会议室。只有巴林杰、彼得·梁和他们彼此的律师于此碰面。赖恩基说，彼得·梁并没有努力解释2014年11月他在布鲁克林安居工程项目楼梯间的开枪行为。
Mr. Shechtman said the two parted after a handshake.
谢克特曼说，双方在握手后离开。
Mr. Rynecki said he and Ms. Ballinger remained focused on compelling the Police Department to correct training problems that came to light at trial.
赖恩基说，他和巴林杰仍然会专注于迫使警察局去纠正在审判过程中所暴露出的训练问题。