Every public thing that happens to Asian-Americans — whether the unexpected ascent of a Harvard-educated basketball star, the premiere of a network family sitcom or the conviction of a 28-year-old rookie cop who shot and killed an unarmed black man in the stairwell of a housing project — doubles as a referendum on the state of the people. This sounds unfair, but it happens because Asian-Americans are so rarely in the national conversation, especially within the sludgy arena of identity politics. As a rule, we seldom engage in the sort of political advocacy and discourse that might explain, or even defend, our odd, singular and tenuous status as Americans. This is how it has always been for immigrant populations who believe, rightly or wrongly, that they are on a quick march toward whiteness.
每当有公共事件发生在亚裔美国人身上——无论是出身哈佛的篮球明星一夜蹿红，某电视网的一部家庭情景喜剧的首播，还是当差不久的28岁警察在一座公屋的楼梯井里射杀一名未携带武器的黑人——都会兼有一种就族群状况进行公决的性质。听起来不太公平，但那是因为亚裔美国人实在太少出现在全国讨论中，尤其是在身份政治这个一地稀泥的领域。这是一个规矩：我们很少诉诸那种政治维权和论述手段，去试图解释甚至捍卫我们作为美国人所处的古怪、独特和微弱的境地。那些——正确或错误地——相信自己正在快步走向白人化的移民群体一向如此。
On Saturday, Feb. 20, Asian-Americans briefly broke that silence: They were among the thousands across the country who gathered to protest the manslaughter conviction of the former N.Y.P.D. officer Peter Liang in the killing of Akai Gurley, a 28-year-old black man. Last November, just five days before a grand jury in St. Louis decided to not indict Officer Darren Wilson in the killing of Michael Brown, Liang and his partner were on patrol in the Louis Pink Houses in East New York, Brooklyn. Liang, who had his gun drawn, opened a door to a stairwell. The gun was discharged; a bullet ricocheted off a wall and struck Gurley. Rather than administer medical treatment to Gurley, Liang and his partner argued over who would call their supervisor.
2月20日星期六，亚裔美国人短暂地打破了沉默：全美各地有成千上万的人们聚集到一起，抗议对彼得·梁(Peter Liang)的误杀定罪，这名前纽约市警官杀死了28岁的黑人阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)。去年11月，就在圣路易斯一个大陪审团决定不起诉枪杀迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)五天前，梁和搭档在布鲁克林区东纽约的路易粉红楼(Louis Pink Houses)巡逻。已经拔出枪的梁打开一扇通往楼梯井的门。枪击发了；一发子弹击中墙壁反弹，打中了格利。当时，梁和搭档没有对格利采取抢救措施，而是争论该由谁来给他们的上司打电话。
On Feb. 11 this year, Liang became the first N.Y.P.D. officer convicted in a line-of-duty shooting in over a decade. Many Asian-Americans felt that Liang had been offered up as a sacrificial lamb to appease the ongoing protests against police violence that started two summers ago in Ferguson, Mo. The pro-Liang protests, in turn, sparked small counterprotests by black activists, who argued that justice had been served and that a killer cop was a killer cop, period. A discomforting paradox lay beneath the whole confrontation, one that cut straight across the accepted modern vision of Asians and their adjacency to whiteness: If Liang (and, by extension, all Asian-Americans) enjoyed the protections of whiteness, then how do you explain his conviction?
今年2月11日，梁成为十年来第一名因当值期间的枪击行为被判决有罪的纽约市警察局警官。许多亚裔美国人觉得梁成了替罪羊，被用来缓和一场从两个夏天前的密苏里州弗格森开始、一直持续至今的抗议警察暴力活动。支持梁的抗议活动反过来又引发黑人活动人士的小规模抗议，后者认为正义已得伸张，警察杀人就是警察杀人。这场冲突的背后隐藏着一个令人不安的悖论，与公认的亚裔现代形象以及他们与白人的近似性相抵触：如果梁（乃至所有亚裔美国人）享受着白人的保护，那如何解释他的定罪？
The Liang protests mark the most pivotal moment in the Asian-American community since the Rodney King riots, when dozens of Korean-American businesses were burned to the ground. The episode is often said to have been precipitated by the horrific killing of Latasha Harlins, a 15-year-old black girl who was shot in the back of the head by Soon Ja Du, a Korean store owner, after a confrontation over a bottle of orange juice. In reality, the tensions between Asian store owners and the black neighborhoods they served had been simmering for years; they began well before Rodney King became a household name, and they continue today.
梁的抗议活动是自罗德尼·金(Rodney King)案骚乱以来亚裔美国人群体的最关键时刻，当时数十家韩裔美国人的商铺被烧毁。事件激化的原因常被归于15岁的黑人女孩拉塔莎·哈林斯(Latasha Harlins)被杀害一事，她和韩裔店主斗顺子(Soon Ja Du)就一瓶橙汁发生纠纷，而后被斗顺子从身后开枪击中头部。但事实上，亚裔店主与其所处的黑人社区之间的紧张关系由来已久；早在罗德尼·金成为一个家喻户晓的名字之前就是如此，一直到今天也没有变。
This long history has erased any possible nuance Saturday’s protests might have brought to our understanding of what happened to Liang. Which is tragic, because there is much ugly, essential nuance to be examined. There are many within the Asian-American community, for example, who believe that Liang deserved to be convicted of manslaughter, but who also wonder why it was the Asian cop, among many other equally deserving officers, who took the fall. Others point to the deaths of Rafael Ramon and Wenjian Liu, two police officers — one Hispanic, the other Asian — who were murdered as they sat in their car in December 2014, at the height of protests against police violence in New York. In the days that followed, as policemen from around the country flew to the city to attend the funerals, I recall talking to Asian friends about the anxiety we felt over Liu’s funeral, and whether the outpouring of support and grief would measure up to what it might have been if he were white. These are selfish, neurotic thoughts, but they are the burden of feeling one’s citizenship may be conditional, and the price of decades of collective silence. When thousands of mourners showed up to Liu’s funeral and gave their condolences to his widow, our fears were put to rest, at least for a little while.
周六的抗议活动本来也许可以帮我们对梁的遭遇产生一个更细腻的认知，但多年对峙的历史抹杀了这种可能性。这是很悲哀的，因为有很多丑陋而又根本的微妙细节有待检视。比如亚裔美国群体中有许多人认为，梁被判误杀是罪有应得，但同时也在想，那么多同样罪有应得的警察，为什么偏偏是亚裔受惩罚。还有人拿出了拉斐尔·拉莫斯(Rafael Ramos)和刘文健（音）的事，两名警察一名是西班牙裔，一名是亚裔——两人于2014年12月在自己的车中被杀，当时抗议警察暴力的活动正在纽约进行得如火如荼。接下来几天，来自全国各地的警察来到纽约参加葬礼，我记得当时我和亚裔朋友谈到对刘文健的葬礼感到紧张，不知道能不能得到跟白人一样的支持和哀悼。这些都是自私而神经质的想法，但是，一个意识到自己的国民身份可能有附加条件的人，就会背上这样的负担，这也是几十年集体沉默的代价。成千上万的人来到刘文健的葬礼上致哀，向遗孀表达慰唁，这让我们的恐惧平息了下来，至少暂时是这样的。
All these anxieties, born out of these small but crucial referendums on our place in America, have been reignited by Liang’s conviction. Even if you believe, as I do, that Liang should be in jail, the inevitable follow-up question — why only Liang? — suggests that the unjust protections routinely afforded to white officers should be extended either to everyone or to nobody at all. To ignore this suggestion is intellectually dishonest.
这些就我们在美国的境遇进行的规模不大但重要的表决，引发了许多焦虑，彼得·梁被定罪一事再次激发这种情绪。即便你跟我一样，都认为彼得·梁应该入狱服刑，接下来也有一个不可避免的问题——为什么只有他一个，人们认为白人警察一向受到的不公正的保护，这种保护要么惠及每一个人，要么就全部都不享受。无视这一提法是智识上的不诚实。
But to engage with it is to ignore the overwhelming context of the case: yet another unarmed black man killed by yet another police officer. The cleanest response — one I’ve seen throughout social media, where clean, vaguely lobotomized responses often reign supreme — is to simply say that some justice is better than none. But how can any sincere confrontation of racial inequity in policing and the criminal-justice system ignore the inconvenient singularity of Liang’s conviction?
但要面对这一提议，就要忽略该案件的一个无法忽略的背景：又是一名手无寸铁的黑人，又是被一名警察杀害。最不偏不倚的回应是，有一些公平总比一点都没有好——这是我在社交媒体上看到的，这种公正的、有些不食人间烟火的回应，在社交媒体上通常占据优势。但如果是真心要对抗警务和刑事司法体系中的种族不平等，如何能够忽略只有一个彼得·梁被定罪这一棘手的问题？
Each of these thoughts represents an uneasy, probing investigation into the complicated, often-complicit relationship between Asian-Americans and the nation’s racial hierarchies. I do not claim to know the right answer to any of these questions. I do not know how to explain why I knew Liang would be found guilty well before the verdict was announced. I cannot adequately describe the conflict in feeling like a race traitor for applauding Liang’s conviction while also feeling like a race traitor for questioning it. I know the lifeblood of my conditional whiteness as an educated, upwardly mobile Asian-American lies somewhere in those conflicts. And because it’s historically been in the best interests of people like me to never discuss these things, even in private, I lack the vocabulary to discuss it.
这每一种想法，都是在对亚裔和美国种族统治阶层之间复杂且时有冲突的关系进行惶恐而急切的调查。我并没有说我知道这些问题的正确答案。在判决宣布前，我就知道彼得·梁会被定罪，我不知道怎么解释这一点。支持彼得·梁被定罪让我觉得自己是个种族叛徒，同时质疑这一决定也让我觉得自己是种族叛徒，我无法充分描述这种矛盾。我知道作为一名受过教育且向上流动的亚裔，我这种有条件地白人化的驱动力源自这些矛盾。由于从历史角度看，我这种人最好永远不要讨论这些事情，即便是私底下，我缺乏进行论述的词汇。
This cultural aphasia comes from decades of political silence. Asian-Americans, for the most part, have been absent from modern social-justice movements, partly by their own choosing. Last year, while reporting an article for the magazine on the anti-police-violence activism of DeRay Mckesson and Johnetta Elzie, I attended Black Lives Matter protests across the country. In each city, I grew angrier and angrier at the lack of Asian faces among the marchers. I had long lost faith in storybook solidarity, but I had never expected to see the divide between blacks and Asian-Americans laid out so starkly.
这种文化失语源自数十年来的政治沉默。亚裔基本上没有参与现代社会正义运动，这在一定程度上是他们自己的选择。去年，我为《纽约时报》杂志撰写有关德雷·麦克森(DeRay McKesson)和约内塔·埃尔齐(Johnetta Elzie)的反对警察暴力活动的文章时，参加了“黑人命也是命”(Black Lives Matter)的全国性抗议活动。每一个城市的抗议者中都缺少亚洲面孔，这让我越来越愤怒。故事书里的天下一心我早已不信，但我从未想到黑人与亚裔之间的分歧会如此突出。
The dissonance between those two stories — the pan-cultural dream and the reality — is what deforms the stated intentions, however good or bad, of the Peter Liang protests. On Saturday, some protesters carried signs bearing the Rev. Martin Luther King’s Jr.’s image and a quote: “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.”
正是这两个故事——泛文化梦想与现实——的不协调，导致彼得·梁抗议活动声称的动机——不管是好是坏——出现了扭曲。周六，一些抗议者举着印有小马丁·路德·金牧师(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)肖像和名言的标牌，上面写到“一个地方的不公正会威胁到其他所有地方的公正”。
This is the stunted language of a people who do not yet know how to talk about injustice. The protesters who took to the streets on Saturday are trying, in their way, to create a new political language for Asian-Americans, but this language comes without any edifying history — no amount of nuance or qualification or appeal to Martin Luther King will change the fact that the first massive, nationwide Asian-American protest in years was held in defense of a police officer who shot and killed an innocent black man.
这就是还不知道如何谈论公正的人所使用的稚嫩语言。周六参加街头抗议的人，在用自己的方式努力为亚裔创造新的政治语言，但这种语言并不随附任何有教化意义的历史——对马丁·路德·金诉诸再多的微调、限定或寄托，也无法改变这一个事实：多年来的首次全国性亚裔抗议活动，是为了捍卫一名射杀无辜黑人的警察。