Finding that a juror had not lied to get himself impaneled at the trial, a judge denied a motion on Thursday to overturn the conviction of Peter Liang, the former New York City police officer found guilty in February of fatally shooting Akai Gurley in a housing project stairwell.
周四，法官当庭判定彼得·梁(Peter Liang)案的一名陪审员并非通过说谎进入陪审团，进而拒绝了要求撤销对彼得·梁的定罪的动议。因为在一栋公屋的楼梯间开枪致阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)死亡，前警员彼得·梁于今年2月被判有罪。
The ruling from the bench by Justice Danny K. Chun drew to a close a bizarre interlude that threatened to upend the prominent police misconduct case on the eve of Mr. Liang’s sentencing, now scheduled for Tuesday.
该案主审法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)在彼得·梁即将接受量刑前夕做出的这一裁决，为一个有可能让这桩引人瞩目的警察渎职案出现反转的诡异插曲画上了句号。量刑结果将于下周二宣布。
After a two-day hearing during which the juror, Michael Vargas, was questioned about his antipolice beliefs and whether he had hidden his father’s criminal past in order to be placed on Mr. Liang’s jury, Justice Chun decided that Mr. Vargas had not acted improperly by offering confusing statements about his father and that, at any rate, none of what he said had affected the guilty verdict.
在为期两天的聆讯过程中，陪审员迈克尔·巴尔加斯(Michael Vargas)就其持有的反警察观念，以及是否为了进入该案陪审团而隐瞒其父的刑事案底接受了质询。田法官在聆讯结束后判定，巴尔加斯没有不当行为，未就他父亲的情况提供引人误解的陈述；此外，不管怎样，他的陈述对有罪判决的出炉并无影响。
After the ruling, the Brooklyn district attorney’s office issued a brief statement saying that it agreed with Justice Chun’s decision. Paul Shechtman, Mr. Liang’s lawyer, declined to comment.
田法官作出上述裁定后，他所在的布鲁克林地区检察官办公室发了一份简短的声明，称其赞同田法官的决定。彼得·梁的律师保罗·谢克特曼(Paul Shechtman)拒绝置评。
In a typical criminal trial, the role of jurors like Mr. Vargas, a 62-year-old retired carpenter, is to stand in judgment of defendants. But at a hearing in this case, which from the start has been anything but typical, Mr. Vargas was himself a kind of defendant.
现年62岁的巴尔加斯是一名退休木匠。在寻常的刑事审讯过程中，他这样的陪审员会对被告做出审判。但彼得·梁(Peter Liang)案从一开始就非同寻常，在该案的一场聆讯中，巴尔加斯本人似乎反倒成了被告。
For several hours on Wednesday and Thursday in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, he was grilled by Mr. Shechtman at what amounted to a miniature post-trial trial. This minitrial itself was caused by a newspaper article.
本周三和周四，在位于布鲁克林的纽约州最高法院（为纽约州初审法院——译注）进行的一场庭审中——相当于庭审后的微型庭审——巴尔加斯遭到谢克特曼的穷追猛打。这场微型庭审本身源自报纸上的一篇新闻报道。
Last month, the district attorney, Ken Thompson, recommended that Mr. Liang, a rookie officer, should face probation, not time in prison, for his conviction on manslaughter and official misconduct charges. After that decision, The Daily News published an article quoting Mr. Vargas as saying that the punishment — or lack of it — was “a slap on the wrist” and that his father, Norberto Vargas Sr., had once served seven years in prison for an accidental shooting, a crime oddly similar to Mr. Liang’s.
上个月，地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)建议，应对犯下过失杀人罪和渎职罪的菜鸟警员彼得·梁处以缓刑，而非将其投入监牢。此后，纽约《每日新闻》(The Daily News)在一篇文章中援引巴尔加斯的话称：这种惩罚——也许算不上惩罚——是“挠痒痒”，他父亲诺韦尔托·巴尔加斯(Norberto Vargas)曾经因为意外枪击事件服刑七年——其罪行与彼得·梁极为相似。
Those quotes did not neatly fit with the fact that during jury selection Mr. Vargas told Justice Chun that none of his close relatives had ever been accused of a crime. Adding to the confusion, Mr. Vargas that same day told a different judge who was interviewing him as a juror that a member of his family had indeed once been arrested — which is to say, his father.
这些引语与他在陪审员遴选过程中告诉田法官的话并不完全相符——他说他的近亲都没有受到过刑事指控。更让人困惑的是，就在同一天，他作为另一桩案子的陪审员候选人接受另一位法官“面试”时告知对方，他的一位家人——也是就他父亲——曾经遭到过逮捕。
In a manner that even Justice Chun called “rambling,” Mr. Vargas explained his shifting statements at the hearing by suggesting that he had answered the questions literally: someone in his “family” had been arrested, but no “close relatives” had suffered the same fate. Despite their biological closeness, he went on, he had never been emotionally close to his father, having been raised in a series of church-run orphanages and boys’ homes.
聆讯过程中，巴尔加斯以一种田法官都称之为“不着边际”的方式，解释了其说辞中的不一致之处，他说自己是按照字面意思来回答问题的：他的一位“家人”遭到过逮捕，但他的“近亲”都没有过同样的经历。尽管和父亲之间有着亲近的血缘关系，他继续说道，但他们父子俩在情感上一直都不亲近，他是在一系列孤儿院和男童院中长大的。
It was both remarkable and in keeping with the twisting, turning trial that for two days, there remained the possibility that one of the biggest police shooting cases in recent city history could have been thrown out because of the definition of the word “close.”
在两天时间里，一直存在这样一种可能性：纽约近些年的历史上影响最大的警察枪击案之一，会因为对“近”字的不同解读而被法庭驳回。这真是非比寻常，同时又符合这桩迂回曲折的案件的调性。
Though Justice Chun formally precluded that from happening, Mr. Shechtman did not help his own case by drifting away from the central issue — whether Mr. Vargas had in fact lied his way onto the panel as a so-called stealth juror — into a sustained attack on several antipolice messages that the juror had posted onto Facebook. On Thursday, after the ninth or 10th example of these posts, Justice Chun lost his patience.
不过田法官正式排除了这种可能性；谢克特曼于是掠过中心议题——巴尔加斯是否通撒谎进入陪审团，成为所谓的隐形陪审员——不断拿巴尔加斯发在Facebook上的几个带有反警察倾向的帖子说事，但这并没有让情况变得对他有利。周四，在他列举了9个或10个这样的帖子之后，田警官失去了耐心。
“Mr. Shechtman,” he said with obvious irritation, “is it on the basis of the juror’s Facebook posts that you want this court to set aside the verdict? That’s all you have? Move on!”
“谢克特曼先生，”他明显有些恼怒地说道，“仅仅基于这位陪审员发在Facebook上的几个帖子，你就想让本庭撤销有罪判决？这就是你的全部理由？进行下一个环节吧！”
So Mr. Shechtman did, ceding the floor to Joseph Alexis, an assistant district attorney, who defended Mr. Vargas by noting that he had also posted on Facebook several photographs in support of the police. As for Mr. Vargas’s nuanced descriptions of his father’s criminal history, those were not lies, Mr. Alexis said, but statements that showed “the complex emotions and complexities of this case.”
于是谢克特曼退回座位，让为巴尔加斯辩护的助理地区检察官约瑟夫·亚历克西斯(Joseph Alexis)接手。后者则表示他曾在Facebook上了发了若干张支持警方的照片，并据此为巴尔加斯展开辩护。亚历克西斯说，巴尔加斯就他父亲的刑事案底给出的具有微妙差异的说辞并非谎言，其陈述不过表明了“情感的复杂性以及这桩案件的复杂性”。