In a Brooklyn courtroom packed with the relatives of his victim, Peter Liang, the former New York City police officer who fatally shot Akai Gurley while on patrol in a housing project stairwell, was sentenced on Tuesday to five years of probation, escaping a prison term in the divisive police misconduct case.
前纽约市警官彼得·梁(Peter Liang)在一个公屋建筑的楼梯间巡逻时，开枪打死了阿凯·格利(Akai Gurley)，本周二，在布鲁克林一个坐满了被害人亲属的法庭里，梁因这起警察不当处置案被判处五年缓刑，无需入狱服刑。
The sentencing in State Supreme Court put to rest a politically contentious case that highlighted concerns over police accountability. It began in November 2014 when Mr. Gurley was hit by a ricocheting bullet in a dark stairwell of the Louis H. Pink Houses in the East New York neighborhood, joining a list of other unarmed black men who had been killed by the police around the country.
州最高法院的宣判意味着这起引发政治争议的案件尘埃落定，本案突显了对警方问责的担忧。2014年11月，在东纽约居民区路易斯·H·平克公屋(Louis H. Pink Houses)一个黑暗的楼梯间里，格利被子弹击中，成为又一名死于警方之手的未持械黑人男子。
Though Mr. Liang, a rookie officer, had faced up to 15 years in prison for his conviction in February on manslaughter and official misconduct charges, Justice Danny K. Chun reduced the charge to criminally negligent homicide moments before the sentencing. The decision not to imprison Mr. Liang followed the recommendation of Ken Thompson, the Brooklyn district attorney. Mr. Thompson announced in March that he would not ask for prison time in part because no evidence existed that Mr. Liang had meant to kill or injure Mr. Gurley.
彼得·梁是一名新警员。虽然在今年2月，他因为故意杀人罪和渎职罪名成立，面临着长达15年的监禁，但法官丹尼·K·田(Danny K. Chun)在宣判前将指控降为刑事过失致死。不对梁进行监禁的决定，是布鲁克林地区检察官肯·汤普森(Ken Thompson)建议的。汤普森今年3月宣布，他不会要求监禁梁，部分原因是没有证据证明梁存心杀死或伤害格利。
Mr. Liang was also sentenced to 800 hours of community service.
梁还被判处800小时的社区服务。
Leaving courtroom Mr. Gurley’s aunt Herntencia Peteresen called out in the hallway: “There is no justice! Akai Gurley’s life didn’t matter!”
离开法庭的时候，格利的阿姨赫恩谭希亚·彼特森(Herntencia Peteresen)在走廊里大喊：“没有公道！阿凯·格利的生命不重要！”
At the three-week trial this winter, the jury heard how Mr. Liang and his partner, Officer Shaun Landau, were on patrol in the Pink Houses on Nov. 20, 2014, when, at one point, Mr. Liang opened a door into an unlighted stairwell and his gun went off. The bullet glanced off a wall and struck Mr. Gurley, 28, who was walking down the stairs with his girlfriend, in his heart.
今年冬天进行了为期三周的审判，梁和他的搭档肖恩·兰道(Shaun Landau)向陪审团讲述了事情经过。2014年11月20日，他们在平克公屋巡逻，然后梁打开了一扇门，进入黑暗的楼梯间，接着他的枪响了起来。子弹经过墙壁反弹，打中了28岁的格利的心脏，当时他正和女朋友一起下楼。
Though the case was quickly caught up in the furor over the death of Eric Garner, who had died just months earlier while being arrested on Staten Island, the Gurley shooting never neatly fit the narrative of other high-profile police killings.
就在几个月前，发生了埃里克·加尔那(Eric Garner)在斯塔顿岛被逮捕时死亡的事件，尚未平息的怒火迅速蔓延到了这个案件上，但是和其他引人瞩目的警察杀人事件相比，格利枪杀案存在较大差异。