Many people join the political left driven by a concern for the poor. But, over the past several years, the Democratic Party has talked much more about the middle class than the poor. Meanwhile, progressive political movements like Occupy Wall Street directed their fervor at the top 1 percent. Progressive movies and books have focused their attention on conspiracy and oligarchy at the top, not “Grapes of Wrath” or “How the Other Half Lives” stories at the bottom.
很多人采取左翼的政治立场是因为关怀穷人。但在过去几年里，民主党谈论中产阶级，比谈到穷人的时候要多得多。与此同时，像“占领华尔街”(Occupy Wall Street)这样的进步政治运动则将运动的热情指向了收入水平处于顶层的1%。进步的电影和书籍也将注意力投向了顶层人的阴谋和寡头统治，而不像《愤怒的葡萄》(Grapes of Wrath)或《另一半人怎样生活》(How the Other Half Lives)那样的故事，去反映底层生活。
This is natural. The modern left is led by smart professionals — academics, activists, people in the news media, the arts and so on — who tend to live in and around coastal cities.
这很自然。现代的左派是由聪明的专业人士领导的——学术界、活动人士、媒体人、艺术家，等等——他们往往生活在沿海城市及其周边。
If you are a young professional in a major city, you experience inequality firsthand. But the inequality you experience most acutely is not inequality down, toward the poor; it’s inequality up, toward the rich.
如果你是一名生活在大城市里的年轻专业人士，你能亲身体验到不平等。然而你最强烈地感受到的不平等并不是向下的、面对穷人的，而是向上的、面对富人的。
You go to fund-raisers or school functions and there are always hedge fund managers and private equity people around. You get more attention than them at parties, but your whole apartment could fit in their dining room. You struggle with tuition, but their kids go off on ski weekends. You wait in line at the post office, but they have staff to do it for them.
你参加筹款会或学校典礼时，身边总会出现对冲基金经理或者做私募投资的人。你能在派对上得到更多关注，但你的整个公寓只相当于他们家的餐厅那么大。你只能勉强交上学费，可是他们的孩子周末能去滑雪。你要在邮局排队，可是他们可以派人替自己排队。
You see firsthand the explosion of wealth at the tippy-top. It really doesn’t help that you have to spend your days kissing up to the oligarchs and their foundations to finance your research, exhibition or favorite cause.
你能亲眼见到位于塔尖的人收入暴增。让人更加难受的是，你必须要一天又一天地巴结那些富豪和他们的基金会，才能为你的研究、展览或钟爱的事业筹到钱。
The situation is ripe for the sort of class conflict the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu used to describe: pitting those who are rich in cultural capital against those who are rich in financial capital.
法国社会学家皮埃尔·布迪厄(Pierre Bourdieu)曾形容过的那种阶级冲突方兴未艾：让那些富有文化资本的人，对抗那些富有金融资本的人。
And into this fray wanders Thomas Piketty. His book “Capital in the Twenty-First Century” argues that the real driver of inequality is not primarily differences in human capital. It’s differences in financial capital. Inequality is not driven by young hip professionals who arm their kids with every advantage and get them into competitive colleges; it’s driven by hedge fund oligarchs. Well, of course, this book is going to set off a fervor that some have likened to Beatlemania.
现在托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)加入了这团混战。他的著作《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)提出，不平等的首要因素并不是人力资本的差异，而是金融资本的差异。年轻时尚的专业人士为孩子们提供各种便利，让他们进入有竞争力的大学，并不会加剧不平等。造成不平等的是对冲基金大鳄。当然，这本书一定会掀起一股堪比当年披头士乐队的热潮。
The book is very good and interesting, but it has pretty obvious weaknesses. Though economists are really not good at predicting the future, Piketty makes a series of educated guesses about the next century.
这本书很棒也很有趣，但也有相当明显的缺憾。尽管经济学家十分不善于预测未来，但是皮克提还是对未来的一个世纪做出了多个理由充分的猜测。
Piketty predicts that growth will be low for a century, though there seems to be a lot of innovation around. He predicts that the return on capital will be high, though there could be diminishing returns as the supply increases. He predicts that family fortunes will concentrate, though big ones in the past have tended to dissipate and families like the Gateses give a lot away. Human beings are generally treated in aggregate terms, without much discussion of individual choice.
皮克提预言，未来一个世纪的经济增长会保持在低位，尽管似乎有望出现很多创新。他预测，资本回报会很高，但随着供应的增多，回报率会下降。他预测，家庭财富将会更集中，虽然过去拥有大量财富的家族会散财，像盖茨(Gates)这样的家庭会捐出很多财产。书中谈论人时，通常都会被当做集合，并没有对个人选择有多少讨论。
But those self-acknowledged weaknesses are overlooked. And his policy agenda is perfectly suited to his market audience. The problem with those who stress financial capital inequality over human capital inequality is that up until now they have described a big problem but they have no big proposal to address it. Now they do: a global wealth tax. Piketty proposes that all the governments in the world, or at least the big ones, get together, find all the major wealth in the world and then tax capital progressively.
但作者自己承认的这些缺憾却没有受到重视，而他的政策主张也完全符合目标读者群的口味。那些强调金融资本的不平等，而不是人力资本的不平等的人的问题在于，到目前为止他们描述了一个巨大的问题，但并没有提出解决它的方法。现在他们有了想法：在全球征收财富税。皮克提提出，全世界所有国家的政府，或者至少大国的政府，要联合起来，查清全世界所有的巨额财富，并以累进税制对资本征税。
Piketty wouldn’t raise taxes on income, which thriving professionals have a lot of; he would tax investment capital, which they don’t have enough of. Think of what would happen to the Manhattan or Bay Area real estate markets if the financiers had to sell their stray apartments in order to get liquid assets to pay the tax bill. Think of how much more affordable fine art would be. Think of how much more equal the upper class would be.
皮克提不愿提高所得税，虽然生活蒸蒸日上的专业人士有很多收入；他希望对投资资本征税，而专业人士可没有足够的投资资本。设想一下，如果那些金融从业者要卖掉几所闲置的公寓才能弄到流动资产去缴税，纽约曼哈顿或旧金山湾区的房地产市场会发生什么。设想一下，美术作品的价格会降低多少。设想一下，上层阶级会平等多少。
Politically, the global wealth tax is utopian, as even Piketty understands. If the left takes it up, they are marching onto a bridge to nowhere. But, in the current mania, it is being embraced.
就连皮克提也明白，全球财富税在政治上只是乌托邦一般的想象。即使左翼信以为真，他们到头来也无法如愿以偿。但在当前的热潮下，这种设想却被接受了。
This is a moment when progressives have found their worldview and their agenda. This move opens up a huge opportunity for the rest of us in the center and on the right. First, acknowledge that the concentration of wealth is a concern with a beefed up inheritance tax.
这是一个让进步人士发现自己的世界观和议程的时刻。这一举动为我们中间派，以及政治立场偏右的人，提供了一个重要的机遇。首先要承认，财富的集中是一个需要关注的问题，即使遗产税的征收力度得到加强。