An anachronism in an Upper Fifth Avenue neighborhood dominated by the Metropolitan Museum of Art and limestone co-ops with prewar pedigrees, 1045 Fifth Avenue, the apartment building the developer Manny E. Duell considered his masterpiece, is a bronze glass column crowned by a duplex penthouse with two levels of panoramic 40-foot vistas across Central Park’s reservoir. From the start, the one-of-a-kind penthouse was reserved and customized for Mr. Duell, who died in 1977 just a decade after moving in, as a present to his wife, Irene, who lived and entertained there until her own death last summer at age 92.
上第五大道（Upper Fifth Avenue，第五大道的一部分，又称为“百万富豪区”[Millionaire's Row]——译注）社区坐落着引人注目的大都会博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)，充斥着战前风格的石灰石合作公寓。在这个社区，第五大道1045号显得与周围的建筑格格不入。它是一栋青铜色玻璃公寓楼，开发商曼尼·E·迪尔(Manny E. Duell)将其视为自己的杰作。楼顶有一套复式住宅，坐拥40英尺（约合12米）的中央公园(Central Park)水库全景。从一开始，这套独一无二的顶层住宅就是为曼尼预定和定制的，曼尼入住仅10年，就在1977年逝世了。这套房子是他送给妻子艾琳(Irene)的礼物，艾琳一直在那里生活、待客，直到去年夏天过世，享年92岁。
Now the 10-room aerie on the 14th and 15th floors, a glamorous 1960s time capsule with a dash of Hollywood in its décor and more than 800 square feet of wraparound balconies reached through glass sliders, is poised to enter the market for the first time ever. The asking price is $15.5 million, the monthly maintenance fees are $12,935, and unlike many of the co-ops on Fifth and Park Avenues, this one permits pieds-à-terre and 50 percent financing.
这套高层住宅位于14-15楼，带有10个房间。如今，它好比一个20世纪60年代的时间胶囊，独具魅力，其装潢带有些许好莱坞风格。穿过玻璃滑门即可进入超过800平方英尺（约合74平方米）的环绕式阳台。这套房子将首次挂牌上市。要价1550万美元（约合人民币9624万元），每月物业费为12935美元（约合人民币80311元）。不同于第五大道和公园大道(Park Avenue)的许多合作公寓，这套房源允许作为临时住所，可贷款50%。
Completed in 1967, the building, near 86th Street, was designed by the architectural firm Horace Ginsbern and Associates and originally had 25 apartments, each with a floor-to-ceiling window wall of glass in the living room facing the avenue; because of expansions and combinations, it now contains 12 residences, with floor-through apartments or duplexes on all but two floors. But the configuration of the penthouse, which has a maid’s room and bath off the kitchen and, reachable from the upper level by a narrow spiral staircase, a romantic garret/bedroom/study with a 16-by-6-foot east-facing terrace, is essentially unchanged.
第五大道1045号完工于1967年，靠近第86街，由建筑公司Horace Ginsbern & Associates设计，原本有25套公寓，每套公寓的客厅带有一面临街的落地窗；经过扩建和组合，楼内现在包含12套住宅。除了两个楼层以外，其余所有楼层的公寓或复式住宅都占据了整层楼。不过顶层住宅的布置基本上原封未动。它的厨房挨着一间佣人房和浴室。通过二楼一条狭窄的螺旋楼梯，可进入一间浪漫的阁楼/卧室/书房。此房间带有一座朝东的露台，露台面积16×6英尺（约合4.9×1.8米）。
“Growing up, I mostly lived in buildings my father owned,” Thea Duell, Manny and Irene’s daughter, wrote in an email. (She used the garret in the penthouse as an escapist bedroom in her teens.) “Later on he decided to build a building where he could create his penthouse on Fifth Avenue. The project was a labor of love in which he was actively involved.”
“我从小到大几乎一直住在父亲开发的楼房里，”曼尼和艾琳的女儿西娅·迪尔(Thea Duell)在电子邮件中写道（十几岁的时候，她把顶层住宅的那间阁楼当成了卧室和避风港），“后来，他决定建设一栋楼房，以便在第五大道修建自己的顶层住宅。这个项目是他甘愿投入的工作，他很积极地参与其中。”
Irene Duell “loved waking up in the bedroom with the magnificent view of the reservoir,” her daughter said, adding, “The apartment was arranged around my mother’s needs: It was the palace built for her.”
艾琳·迪尔“喜欢在这间坐拥水库壮丽景色的卧室中醒来”，她的女儿说着，又补充道，“这套公寓是围绕我母亲的需求布置出来的：它是专门为她建造的宫殿。”
The main floor of the penthouse has a private elevator landing; inside, there are white marble floors in the foyer as well as in the elegant formal dining room with north and east exposures, and in the two-tier gallery, which is lit by an antique crystal chandelier. The gallery has a floating staircase of white marble, glass and bronze connecting the living/entertainment level to the upstairs bedrooms. There are a powder room and a full bath at opposite ends of the foyer. The powder room has travertine floors, a stone vanity and a north window with views of the park and the George Washington Bridge. The other bath is a glamorous mélange of black marble and faux finishes, with fixtures that resemble faceted gold nuggets and a shower hidden behind a golden wall.
这套顶层住宅的主楼层配备了一个私人电梯平台；在屋内，门厅、正式餐厅和双层挑高的画廊铺设着白色大理石地板。正式餐厅装潢雅致，设有朝北和朝东的窗户。画廊采用一盏古董水晶吊灯照明，设有一座由白色大理石、玻璃和黄铜修建而成的浮动式楼梯，楼梯连接着起居/待客层与楼上的卧室。大厅的两端有一间盥洗室和一间全浴室。盥洗室铺设着石灰华地板，设有一座石制洗手台和一扇朝北的窗户，从窗口处可欣赏公园和乔治·华盛顿大桥(George Washington Bridge)的景观。另一间浴室独具特色地混搭着黑色大理石和人造饰面，配备着形似多面体金块的家具，淋浴间隐藏在一面金色的墙壁背后。
The 28-by-15-foot living room and 14-by-33-foot library/den have parquet floors and share 40 feet of park frontage as well as a 40-by-6-foot balcony. There is a marble bar in the corner of the den/library, which has built-in bookcases and a wall of custom cabinetry with a striated faux finish. The 17-by-9-foot kitchen, which could use a face-lift, faces east and has a tile floor.
28×15英尺（约合8.5×4.6米）的客厅和14×33英尺（约合4.3×10米）的书房/私室铺设着镶木地板，它们有40英尺（约合12米）的部分面朝公园，并且挨着一座40×6英尺（约合12×1.8米）的阳台。书房/私室的一隅设有一座大理石吧台，配备了嵌入式书柜和一面墙的定制橱柜，橱柜采用条纹人造饰面。17×9英尺（约合5.2×2.7米）的厨房可翻新，方向朝东，铺设着瓷砖地板。
Upstairs, the master bedroom and its sitting room enjoy western and northern park vistas through 10-foot floor-to-ceiling windows above the avenue and a 40-foot balcony that continues around the building’s northwest corner. The master bathroom has a double marble vanity, a marigold-hued sunken soaking tub, and access to a narrow back balcony that offers three exposures and wraps around two guest bedrooms. The 16-by-17-foot guest bedroom has south and east exposures, an en-suite bath with a shower, and access to the balcony. The other bedroom has north windows that provide park views and is adjacent to an unusual bathroom where the elevated tub beneath an east-facing window is trimmed in Mexican tile.
在楼上，主卧及其起居室通过俯瞰大道的10英尺（约合3米）落地窗和40英尺（约合12米）的阳台坐拥西向和北向的公园景观，此处的阳台一直延伸到了大楼的西北角。主浴室配备了一座大理石洗手台（带有两个洗手池）、一个万寿菊色泽的凹式热水浴缸，可进入一座狭窄的后阳台，阳台三面开阔，环绕着两间客卧。16×17英尺（约合4.9×5.2米）的客卧设有朝南和朝东的窗户和一间带淋浴的配套浴室，可进入阳台。另一间卧室设有朝北的窗户，可观赏园景，旁边是一间不寻常的浴室，在浴室里，一扇朝东的窗户下设有一个升降浴缸，浴缸贴有墨西哥面砖。
The apartment is being sold by Thea Duell and her brother Benjamin Duell; Deanna Raida, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman, is the listing agent. “It’s a true gem,” Ms. Raida said, “and the fact that this is the first time this penthouse has been available for sale is incredibly rare.”
这套公寓的卖家是西娅·迪尔和她的哥哥本杰明·迪尔(Benjamin Duell)；其挂牌经纪人是道格拉斯·艾丽曼(Douglas Elliman)的迪安娜·莱达(Deanna Raida)。“这是一个名副其实的瑰宝，”莱达说，“这套顶层住宅还是第一次待售，这种情况罕见至极。”