WASHINGTON — Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who provided journalists a trove of classified documents, retained a well-known Washington defense lawyer last summer in hopes of reaching a plea deal with federal prosecutors that would allow him to return to the United States and spare him significant prison time.
华盛顿——曾为多名记者提供大量机密文件的前美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)去年夏天聘请了华盛顿的一位著名辩护律师，希望与联邦检察官达成一份认罪协议，该协议将允许他回到美国，并大大缩短其刑期。
The lawyer, according to people familiar with the investigation, is Plato Cacheris, who has represented defendants in some of the highest-profile cases involving Espionage Act charges, including the convicted spies Aldrich Ames and Robert Hanssen and the convicted leaker Lawrence Franklin.
据知情者说，该律师名叫普拉托·卡切里斯(Plato Cacheris)，曾经在一些受到广泛关注的案件中担任辩护律师，其中的当事人都被指控违反了《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)，其中包括间谍罪名成立的奥尔德里奇·艾姆斯(Aldrich Ames)和罗伯特·汉森(Robert Hanssen)，以及因泄密而被定罪的劳伦斯·富兰克林(Lawrence Franklin)。
But nearly a year after Mr. Cacheris became involved, no agreement appears imminent, and government officials said the negotiations remained at an early stage.
但在卡切里斯参与斯诺登案将近一年之后，双方似乎不会很快达成任何协议，政府官员说，谈判仍处在早期阶段。
The officials and others who discussed the case and Mr. Cacheris’s involvement in it spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the sensitivity of the talks.
由于谈判的敏感性，这些官员和另外一些参与相关讨论的人只在匿名的条件下发表评论。
Mr. Snowden, who now lives in Moscow, where he received temporary asylum, was charged last year with multiple violations of the Espionage Act. He faces up to 30 years in prison, and prosecutors could easily add more counts.
斯诺登目前居于莫斯科，并在那里获得了临时庇护。他去年被指控违反了多项《反间谍法》罪名。他目前面临着最多30年的监禁，而且检方很容易就可以增加更多的指控项。
In a phone call, Mr. Cacheris said only: “It’s not something that I want to discuss, so I have no comment.”
通过电话，卡切里斯只是表示：“我不想谈论此事，所以无可奉告。”
Mr. Snowden’s revelations about the breadth and intrusiveness of the N.S.A.’s surveillance prompted the first major reconsideration of the government’s surveillance powers since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. President Obama has said he wants to stop the N.S.A.’s collection of every American’s phone records, a program that was the subject of the first news article based on Mr. Snowden’s documents. But Mr. Obama and other administration officials have said Mr. Snowden should return to the United States to face prosecution.
斯诺登揭露了NSA监控项目的广泛性以及对美国公民的侵扰，这促使美国政府在2001年“9·11”恐怖袭击之后，首次对政府的监控权力进行认真反思。奥巴马总统已经表示，他想要终结NSA搜集所有美国人通话记录的项目——该项目是与斯诺登泄密有关的第一篇新闻报道的主题。不过，奥巴马和其他政府官员已经表示，斯诺登应当回到美国，接受指控。
Mr. Snowden has said that he wants to live somewhere other than Russia, but that American diplomatic pressure is preventing him from traveling or obtaining asylum elsewhere. Still, as long as he can live indefinitely under asylum in Russia, he appears unlikely to strike a deal that would require a lengthy prison sentence.
斯诺登说，他想搬到俄罗斯以外的其他地方，但是美国的外交压力不允许他这么做，也让他无法在其他国家避难。不过，只要他能无限期地在俄罗斯避难，他似乎不太可能去达成一项使自己遭受长期监禁的协议。
“Snowden is interested in returning home,” said Ben Wizner, an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer who also represents Mr. Snowden. “He is and always has been on America’s side. He would cooperate in extraordinary ways in the right circumstances. But he does not believe that the ‘felon’ label is the right word for someone whose act of conscience has revitalized democratic oversight of the intelligence community and is leading to historic reforms.”
斯诺登的另一名代理律师、美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)的律师本·维茨纳(Ben Wizner)说，“斯诺登有意回国。他一直都站在美国这边。在适当的条件下，他会以超乎寻常的方式合作。但他认为，如果一个人的良心之举恢复了对情报领域的民主监督，并且正在引发历史性的改革，‘重罪犯’的标签就不是形容这个人的正确词汇。
Prosecutors have signaled no interest in giving Mr. Snowden credit for the surveillance debate he started.
检方表示，不会将斯诺登引发的监控讨论归功于他。
“He is accused of leaking classified information, and there is no question his actions have inflicted serious harms on our national security,” said Marc Raimondi, a Justice Department spokesman. He said Mr. Snowden was not a whistle-blower.
“他被指控泄露了机密信息，毫无疑问，他的行为给我们的国家安全带来了严重的危害，”司法部发言人马克·雷蒙迪(Marc Raimondi)说。他说，斯诺登根本就不是一个检举告密者。
Any deal could depend on what information Mr. Snowden could give in return.
斯诺登能达成怎样的认罪协议，将取决于他可以给出哪些信息。
In December, Richard Ledgett, who was then the National Security Agency official leading the response to the leaks and has since become the agency’s deputy director, floated the idea of a deal in which Mr. Snowden would receive leniency in exchange for returning documents in his possession that he had not disclosed.
去年12月，NSA官员理查德·莱吉特(Richard Ledgett)提出了达成一份认罪协议的建议，即斯诺登可以用他所拥有的没有披露的文件来换取宽大处理。莱吉特当时负责处理泄密事件，并在此后成为了NSA副局长。
“I would need assurances that the remainder of the data could be secured, and my bar for those assurances would be very high,” he said. “It would be more than just an assertion on his part.”
他说，“我将需要一些保证，确保其余的文件是安全的，我对这些保证的要求非常高。不能只是他自己空口承诺。”
It is not clear whether Mr. Ledgett was suggesting an outcome in which Mr. Snowden persuaded journalists to destroy or return the documents, or whether the government believed Mr. Snowden had kept back documents to use as leverage.
目前还不清楚莱吉特是否在暗示这样一种结果，即斯诺登说服记者销毁或归还这些文件，也不清楚政府是否认为斯诺登扣留了一些文件，以将其作为谈判的筹码。
Mr. Snowden has repeatedly said he did not bring any documents to Russia. He recently told Vanity Fair that there was no “doomsday cache” in his possession, saying, “Who would set up a system that incentivizes others to kill them?”
斯诺登多次表示，他没有把任何文件带到俄罗斯。他最近告诉《名利场》(Vanity Fair)杂志，在他手中没有什么“末日资料库”，他说，“谁会去创建一个促使别人杀死自己的系统？”
Even if he has no documents to return, Mr. Snowden could also help the N.S.A. by providing an accounting of what he took. Despite government claims that Mr. Snowden may have taken 1.7 million documents, Mr. Snowden also told Vanity Fair that figure is “a scare number based on an intentionally crude metric: everything that I ever digitally interacted with in my career.”
即使他没有需要归还的文件，斯诺登还可以说出他拿走了哪些文件，这对NSA也有帮助。尽管政府声称，斯诺登可能带走了170万份文件，斯诺登告诉《名利场》，这个数字是“吓唬人的，来自一个故意弄得很粗略的数据：我在工作中曾经接触到的一切电子信息。”
Mr. Ledgett confirmed to Vanity Fair that the N.S.A. did not know what he had taken.
莱吉特向《名利场》证实，NSA不知道他带走了什么。
Some leaks cases have ended with charges less than a felony, and Mr. Wizner’s remarks suggest that Mr. Snowden wants something similar. Thomas Drake, a former N.S.A. executive accused of leaking about waste and mismanagement to The Baltimore Sun, was charged under the Espionage Act with mishandling classified documents. He settled his case in 2011 for a misdemeanor guilty plea and served no prison time.
以往的一些泄密事件最后并未带来重罪指控，而维茨纳的话表明，斯诺登也想要类似的结果。前NSA管理人员托马斯·德雷克(Tomas Drake)被指向《巴尔的摩太阳报》(The Baltimore Sun)泄露了与NSA浪费行为及管理不善有关的信息，根据《反间谍法》，他被指控处理机密文件不当。他的案子2011年以一份认罪协议了结，他被判犯有轻罪，没有被判处监禁。
Several other leak cases under the Obama administration have resulted in deals for roughly two or three years in prison. At the far end of the spectrum, Chelsea Manning, formerly known as Pfc. Bradley Manning, who leaked documents to WikiLeaks, was sentenced by a military court last year to 35 years in prison.
奥巴马任期内的另外几桩泄密案的泄密者在达成认罪协议后，则被判处了大约两到三年监禁。比较极端的例子是，由于把文件泄露给了维基解密，曾经被叫做一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Pfc. Bradley Manning)的切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)去年被军事法庭判处35年监禁。
Daniel Richman, a former federal prosecutor and a Columbia University law professor, said the first step toward a deal is hiring someone like Mr. Cacheris — “a lawyer whom the government can trust and has familiarity with.”
前联邦检察官、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)法学教授丹尼尔·里奇曼(Daniel Richman)说，达成协议的第一步，就是聘请像卡切里斯这样的人——“政府能够信任，而且熟悉的一位律师”。