BEIJING — For 10 days, Monica R. Kelly and her American law firm’s aviation lawyers have stalked the dim hallways of the Lido Hotel here to make their pitches to relatives of passengers aboard missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
北京——过去10天，莫妮卡·R·凯莉(Monica R. Kelly)及其美国律师事务所的航空律师同事们一直在北京丽都饭店昏暗的走廊里走来走去，向马航370次失踪客机的乘客家属推销自己的事务所。
They tell the families that a court in the United States could potentially award millions of dollars per passenger in a lawsuit against the Boeing Company, which built the missing jet, a Boeing 777-200. In a hotel suite, Ms. Kelly uses a model of a Boeing 777 to show families how the plane might have malfunctioned.
他们对乘客家属说，美国的法院也许会在针对波音公司(Boeing Company)的诉讼中判给每名乘客数百万美元的赔偿，波音公司是失联的波音777-200客机的制造商。在酒店的一个套房里，凯莉用一个波音777客机的模型向家属们展示这种飞机可能是如何出故障的。
“It’s not an issue of whether families will be compensated,” Ms. Kelly said recently while munching on French fries with her 12-year-old son at a restaurant across the street from the Lido. “It’s a question of how much and when.”
不久前，在丽都饭店街对面的一家餐厅里，凯莉一边和12岁的女儿一起吃炸薯条，一边说，“问题不是家属能不能获得赔偿，而是他们能获得多少赔偿，何时能拿到赔偿。”
But Ms. Kelly admitted that Flight 370 was a uniquely difficult case. “We’ve done more than 43 plane crashes,” she said, “and there’s never been a situation like this one, ever.”
不过，凯莉承认，370次客机赔偿案的难度绝无仅有。她说，“我们处理过超过43件坠机案，但却从未遇到像370次客机这样的情况。”
Complicating the prospects for a legal case against Malaysia Airlines, Boeing or other parties is the mystery surrounding the plane’s disappearance after it left Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, en route to Beijing on March 8. No one can say with certainty that the plane has crashed, even though the Malaysian government has said satellite data shows that the flight “ended” in the southern Indian Ocean. International search efforts have yielded no debris.
这架客机于3月8日消失在从马来西亚首都吉隆坡飞往北京的途中，围绕飞机失联的疑云让针对马来西亚航空公司、波音或其他涉事方的法律诉讼的前景趋于复杂。没有人能断言飞机已经坠毁，虽然马来西亚政府已表示，卫星数据显示班机“终结”于南印度洋。国际搜救行动迄未寻获任何残骸。
Still, the rush is on to secure compensation for families of the flight’s 227 passengers, about two-thirds of whom are Chinese. Insurance companies here have already made payments to some relatives. On top of that, the families can expect to receive compensation from Malaysia Airlines because of guarantees in an international treaty. They can also opt to sue the airline for more damages, or to sue Boeing or a component manufacturer. Any lawsuit could take years to conclude.
尽管如此，各方还是在匆忙展开行动，以确保机上227名乘客的家属能获得赔偿，大约三分之二的乘客是中国人。北京的保险公司已经开始向一些乘客的家属支付赔偿。此外，家属们有望根据某国际条约的担保获得马航的赔偿。他们还可以选择起诉马航以获得更多赔偿金，或者选择起诉波音或零件生产商。任何法律诉讼都有可能历时数年才能结案。
Ms. Kelly’s firm, Ribbeck Law, made two filings in a court in Chicago, where it is based, to try to force Boeing to divulge more information, but both were dismissed.
凯莉的里贝克律师事务所(Ribbeck Law)向芝加哥的一所法院提交了两份申请，试图迫使波音披露更多信息，两份申请却都遭到了驳回。芝加哥是该事务所总部所在地。
Ribbeck Law has sent six employees to Beijing and six to Kuala Lumpur, where families of passengers have gathered in hotels. Rival firms have also been contacting families.
里贝克律师事务所已向北京和吉隆坡分别派遣了六名雇员，乘客家属都聚集在这两地的酒店里。与之竞争的事务所也在联系乘客家属。
“The next step is getting insurance payments, not lawsuits,” said James Healy-Pratt, a partner and head of the aviation department at Stewarts Law, based in London.
总部位于伦敦的斯图尔茨律师事务所(Stewarts Law)合伙人兼航空部负责人詹姆斯·希利-普拉特(James Healy-Pratt)说，“下一步是获得保险赔偿，而不是提起诉讼。”
Some Chinese families are reluctant to immediately pursue lawsuits or take the payment that airlines generally award in the event of a plane crash, as mandated by international law in the Montreal Convention. Many refuse to accept the fact that the passengers are dead and insist that the Malaysian government is orchestrating an elaborate cover-up.
一些中国家庭不愿意立即提出诉讼，也不愿立即领取航空公司在空难事件中按惯例发放的赔偿，该赔偿是国际法规定必须发放的，依据是《蒙特利尔公约》(Montreal Convention)。许多人拒绝接受机上乘客已经身亡的现实，并认定马来西亚政府在煞费苦心地掩盖真相。
Wang Le, whose mother was on Flight 370, said that he was starting to cope with her death, but that “it’s not the time for compensation yet.”
王乐（音）的母亲就在370次班机上，他说，自己刚刚开始接受母亲离世的现实，不过，“现在还不是谈论赔偿的时候。”
“Talking about lawsuits or whatever — we still don’t know where the plane is,” he said.
他说，“谈什么法律诉讼之类的事情——飞机还不知道在哪儿呢。”
Some of the Flight 370 families are accepting insurance payments as a first step. The China Life Insurance Company, the biggest such company in China, said on its website that it had 32 clients on the flight and that it had paid out $670,400 to cover seven of them as of March 25. It said the total payment for all the clients would be nearly $1.5 million. At least five other Chinese insurance companies have also made payments.
作为第一个步骤，一些370次航班乘客家属正在接受保险赔偿。中国规模最大的人寿保险公司中国人寿保险公司在其网站上透露，该公司有32名客户乘坐370次班机，截至3月25日，公司已为其中七名客户赔付了67.04万美元(约合415.93万元人民币)。该公司表示，机上所有客户的赔付总额将接近150万美元。除了中国人寿之外，至少还有五家中国保险公司已经开始理赔。
Since Malaysia is bound by the Montreal Convention, the families are also entitled to a minimum compensation from Malaysia Airlines, up to $174,000 per passenger. The airline or its insurer might try to persuade a family to agree not to sue in exchange for a payment. But lawyers discourage families from signing such waivers. (Crew members are usually not covered by the treaty, but their families can get workers’ compensation and file lawsuits.)
由于马来西亚是《蒙特利尔公约》缔约国，每名乘客的家属还有权从马航获得一笔基本赔偿金，最高可达17.4万美元。马航或其保险商可能会设法劝说乘客家属放弃起诉，借此换取一笔赔偿。律师们则劝家属不要签署此类弃权书。（机组成员通常不受该公约的保护，但他们的家属可以获得工伤赔偿，也可以提起诉讼。）
The payouts are made by a consortium of companies that are known as reinsurers. In this case, the lead company is Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty, part of Allianz of Germany. The company said it and other reinsurers had already begun making claims payments.
支付赔偿金的是一个由再保险商组成的公司财团。在本案中，牵头的公司是安联全球企业及特殊风险有限公司（Allianz Global Corporate and Specialty，简称AG），AG隶属于金融服务企业集团德国安联保险公司(Allianz of Germany)。AG表示，该公司和其他再保险商已经开始着手理赔。
Two years after another aviation mystery, the crash of an Air France Airbus in the Atlantic in 2009, a French judge determined that the airline’s mandatory payout under the Montreal Convention would be 126,000 euros per passenger, about $180,000.
2009年，法国航空公司(Air France)一架空客(Airbus)飞机在大西洋坠毁，在那起航空业神秘事件发生两年之后，一名法国法官判定，依据《蒙特利尔公约》，法航必须为每名乘客支付12.6万欧元（约合108万元人民币）的强制性赔偿金。
Air France says it has since reached confidential settlements with most of the families of passengers aboard that flight. Families agreeing to the settlements cannot seek any further compensation, even if the continuing French criminal investigation leads to a trial and damages are awarded by a judge.
法航表示，该公司后来与大多数乘客家属达成了保密的和解协议。即便法国持续进行的刑事调查导致法院开庭审判，且法官判决法航支付损害赔偿，同意和解的家属也不能寻求和解金额之外的赔偿。
Airbus has not made any payouts and would face such damages only if it is found liable in a trial.
空客公司尚未作出任何赔偿，只有在相关审判判定该公司负有责任的情况下，它才会面临此类损害赔偿。
The amounts awarded in lawsuits related to Flight 370 could vary by the jurisdiction of filing. American courts offer plaintiffs a better chance of winning multimillion-dollar settlements, several aviation lawyers said. Those courts assign greater economic value to individual lives than do courts in other countries, and they regularly impose punitive damages on companies. Jurisdictions for lawsuits are dictated by the Montreal Convention.
370航班诉讼带来的赔偿数额可能会因诉讼管辖地点而异。几名航空业律师表示，美国法院能为原告提供更好的机会，帮助他们赢得数百万美元的赔偿金。与其他国家的法院相比，美国法院赋予个体生命更多经济价值，通常会判定公司支付惩罚性赔偿。诉讼管辖权是由《蒙特利尔公约》规定的。
The most a Chinese court has awarded plaintiffs in a fatal plane crash case is about $140,000 per passenger, for an accident involving Henan Airlines in 2010. Zhang Qihuan, a lawyer who has been talking to relatives of those on Flight 370, said a court probably would not award more than that in any accident, to avoid setting a precedent. But he said families could settle for a much higher amount out of court if they agreed to keep quiet.
在有关2010年海南航空事故的案件中，中国法院判定每名乘客可获得大约14万美元（按当时汇率计算约为96万元人民币）的赔偿金，这是中国法院在致命性飞机失事案件中判给原告的最高赔偿数额。一直在与370航班乘客家属商讨的律师张起淮表示，为了避免开创先例，法院为任何事故判定的赔偿金都不太可能超过上述数额。但他表示，家属们如果同意保持沉默，就可以达成庭外和解，获得高得多的赔偿金。
Some lawyers say it is too early to begin discussing lawsuits because there is insufficient evidence to establish why the plane disappeared. Forensic analysis of the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder — the black boxes — or debris from the plane might help sustain a case. Malaysian officials have not accused anyone of wrongdoing.
一些律师表示，现在开始讨论诉讼还为时过早，因为尚未取得关于飞机失联原因的充分证据。对飞行数据记录器和驾驶舱语音记录器——即黑匣子——或飞机碎片的鉴证分析可能会有助于打赢官司。马来西亚官员尚未指控任何人存在不法行为。
Robert A. Clifford, an aviation accident lawyer based in Chicago, said he had been contacted by a lawyer in Texas claiming to speak for a Flight 370 family. But he emphasized that no one should rush into litigation. “You don’t have to knee-jerk it, go out, file something,” he said. “This is a process, not an event, and this race is not always won by the swift.”
芝加哥的航空事故律师罗伯特·A·克利福德(Robert A. Clifford)表示，曾有一名自称代表某370航班乘客家庭的德克萨斯律师与他联系。但他强调，大家不应该草率起诉。“你用不着条件反射式地跑出去提起诉讼，”他说。“这是一个过程，不是一个事件，动作快并不总是会赢得比赛。”
Malaysian officials and Malaysia Airlines are girding themselves for legal and financial fallout from the plane’s disappearance.
马来西亚官员和马航正在进行准备，以便应对飞机失联事件带来的法律及经济后果。