WASHINGTON — A member of President Donald Trump’s legal team said Sunday that the president was not under investigation by the special counsel looking into Russia’s election-year meddling, contradicting Trump’s assertion in a Friday morning tweet that he is a subject of the widening inquiry.
华盛顿——周日，唐纳德·特朗普法律团队的一名成员表示，负责调查俄罗斯干预选举案的特别检察官并没有在调查总统，这和特朗普上周五一早的推文相矛盾，当时他自称是这个广泛调查的目标对象。
The denial Sunday by Jay Sekulow, one of several personal lawyers Trump has hired to represent him in the Russia case, is the latest of many examples in which the president’s aides and lawyers have scrambled to avert a public-relations mess created by Trump’s tweets, off-script remarks or leaked private conversations.
周日对此予以否认的是杰伊·塞库洛(Jay Sekulow)，他是特朗普为通俄案所聘请的几个律师之一。特朗普的助手和律师最近付出了不少努力来处理因为他的推文、脱稿讲话以及泄露的私人对话所引发的公关麻烦，此事是最新的一个例子。
Advisers have been forced to perform postpresidential cleanup in the wake of Trump’s tweet claiming he had been wiretapped by the Obama administration, his Oval Office comments to Russian diplomats about the former FBI director, his private musings about the possibility of firing the Russia special counsel, his suggestion that there might be recordings of White House conversations, and his comments about a “military” deportation operation.
特朗普曾在推特上说自己遭到了奥巴马政府的窃听；他在椭圆形办公室和俄罗斯外交官谈到了前FBI局长；对于解聘通俄案特别检察官的私下想法；他还暗示白宫可能会录下谈话内容；并对“军事”驱逐行动发表评论——在这些事情发生后，顾问们不得不为其善后。
In Sekulow’s case, his appearance on multiple Sunday morning talk shows took on the added urgency of trying to protect his client from admitting that he is in legal jeopardy during a criminal investigation, one that appears to be increasingly focused on whether Trump took steps to interfere with the normal progress of the federal inquiry.
拿塞库洛来说，他在多个周日早上的谈话节目中的出现，突显了一种强烈的紧迫性：保护客户，不让特朗普承认在一个刑事调查中遭遇了法律威胁，该调查的重点日益集中在特朗普是否采取了行动，干预联邦调查的正常进展上。
Rod J. Rosenstein, deputy attorney general, last month named Robert B. Mueller, a former FBI director, as a special counsel to lead the investigation into the extent of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election, and whether any of Trump’s associates colluded in that effort.
副总检察长罗德·J·罗森斯坦(Rod J Rosenstein)上个月任命前FBI局长罗伯特·S·穆勒(Robert S. Mueller)为特别检察官，负责调查俄罗斯对2016年总统选举的干预有多深，以及特朗普的班底是否有成员参与此事。
In addition, two congressional committees have issued subpoenas for testimony and documents as part of their wide-ranging, bipartisan investigations. All three inquiries are reportedly examining whether Trump, as president, sought to impede the progress of the inquiries.
而且，国会还有两个委员会也在进行广泛的两党调查，他们发出了要求证人作证和提供文件的传票。据报道，这三个调查都涉及特朗普是否在当上总统后阻碍调查进展。
Sekulow repeatedly and forcefully denied that Sunday, saying on CBS’ “Face the Nation” program that “the president has not been and is not under investigation,” and insisting that the administration had received no information from the special counsel’s office to think otherwise.
塞库洛本周日再三极力否认了此事，在CBS电视台的节目《面对国家》(Face the Nation)上，他说“总统之前没有遭到调查，现在也没有”，并坚称政府并没有收到特别检查官办公室不是这么想的消息。
On Friday, Trump wrote the opposite on Twitter, saying: “I am being investigated for firing the FBI Director by the man who told me to fire the FBI Director! Witch Hunt.”
上周五，特朗普在推特上写道：“那个让我炒掉FBI局长的人，现在正在调查我，因为我炒掉了FBI局长！这是政治迫害。”