On a recent wintry afternoon, a team of eight was putting the final touches on a pair of monumental birds that had just been hung in the majestic nave of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Morningside Heights. As these phoenixes hovered some 20 feet above, their tiny, twinkling lights illuminated an array of unexpected materials: feathers fashioned from impeccably layered shovels; crowns made of weathered hard hats; heads created from jackhammers; and birds’ bodies sculpted from other salvaged construction debris, including pliers, saws, screwdrivers, plastic accordion tubing and drills.
不久前的一个冬日下午，一个八人小组为两尊鸟儿纪念雕塑完成了最后的修饰工作，它们被悬挂在晨边高地圣约翰主教座堂(Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine)宏伟的正厅之中。这两只凤凰在距离地面20英尺（约合6米）的上空盘旋，闪烁的小灯泡照亮雕塑各种奇异的质材：用层次完美的铲子制成的羽毛；用防风帽制成的羽冠；鸟儿的头部是用电钻做的；身体是用其他废弃的建筑残骸制成，包括钳子、锯、螺丝刀、塑料软管和钻头。
In the middle of it all was Xu Bing, the internationally acclaimed Chinese artist, dressed in a black T-shirt and jeans, with a black-and-white scarf wrapped fashionably around his neck and his signature round glasses perched on his nose. When asked about the birds’ placement, one in front of the other inside the massive Gothic-style church, he impishly replied through Jesse Robert Coffino, director of his New York studio, who was acting as interpreter, “The girl is closer to God.”
国际知名的中国艺术家徐冰站在两只鸟儿中间，身穿黑色T恤和牛仔裤，颈上时髦地系着黑白两色方巾，鼻梁上架着他招牌的圆眼镜。为他担任翻译的是杰西·罗伯特·科菲诺(Jesse Robert Coffino)，也是他在纽约工作室的主任。在这座宏伟的哥特式大教堂里，两只鸟儿一前一后摆放，有人问他具体哪只放前面哪只放后面，他通过翻译调皮地回答：“女孩离上帝近一点。”
Both Feng, the male, and Huang, the female, faced the decoratively carved bronze doors, as if poised to take flight in the middle of the night. “If they faced toward the church,” referring to the altar, Mr. Xu explained, “it would have seemed too religious.”
公鸟叫凤，雌鸟叫凰，它们都面向有精美雕刻的青铜门，仿佛要在深夜振翅飞去。“如果它们面向教堂，”——徐口中的“教堂”是指圣坛，“那就显得太宗教化了。”
Throughout China’s history, every dynasty has had its form of phoenixes. Representing luck, unity, power and prosperity, these mythological birds have, for the most part, been benevolent, gentle creatures. But this pair, fashioned from the materials of commercial development, reflect the grimmer and grittier face of China today.
纵观整个中国历史，每个王朝都有自己的凤凰形象。这种神秘的鸟儿象征着吉祥、统一、力量与繁荣，通常是一种高尚祥和的动物。但这一对用商业建设材料制成的鸟儿则反映出当今中国无情与冷酷的一面。
“They bear countless scars,” Mr. Xu explained, having “lived through great hardship, but still have self-respect. In general, the phoenix expresses unrealized hopes and dreams.”
“它们伤痕累累，”徐冰解释，“经历困苦，却依然保持着自尊。总的来说，凤凰象征着未曾实现的希望与梦想。”
A 59-year-old Conceptual artist who works in a variety of mediums — calligraphy, ink painting and installations — and who received a so-called genius grant from the MacArthur Foundation in 1999, Mr. Xu has seen firsthand China’s many transformations. During the Cultural Revolution, his father, a professor of history at Peking University, was banished from his position, and Mr. Xu was sent to the countryside. Some 13 years later, he moved to the United States, eventually settling in New York.
概念艺术家徐冰现年59岁，以书法、水墨画和装置艺术等多种媒介进行创作，1999年，曾获得麦克阿瑟基金会“天才奖”。徐冰亲眼见证了中国的诸多变化。他的父亲是北京大学的一位历史教授，“文革”期间被撤职，徐冰也被送到乡下。大约13年后，他去了美国，最终在纽约定居。
In 2008 he returned to China, after having been offered the prestigious job of vice president of the state-run Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing, China’s top art school.
2008年，他得到一份受人尊敬的工作——北京国立的中央美术学院副校长一职，这是中国的顶尖艺术院校，于是他回到中国。
He still keeps a toe in New York, a city he said he considers a home after living in the East Village for six years, and the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn for 12. On a recent weeklong trip here to oversee the installation of the phoenixes, which he described as “the king of birds,” Mr. Xu spoke about them.
徐冰曾在东村住过六年，在布鲁克林的威廉姆斯伯格区住过12年，因此他说他把纽约当成自己的家，至今仍与它保持联系。最近他刚刚在纽约逗留了一星期，监督那对凤凰的安装情况，与记者谈起它们时，他称其为“众鸟之王”。
The project started in 2008, when he was asked to create a sculpture for a glass atrium at the base of a new building designed by the architect Cesar Pelli for the World Financial Center in Beijing’s central business district.
这个项目始于2008年，当时他被邀请为北京环球金融中心新大厦一层的玻璃中庭制作一尊雕塑，该建筑位于北京商业区中心，是由建筑师西萨·佩里(Cesar Pelli)设计的。
“When I first visited the building site, I had a sense of shock,” Mr. Xu recalled in an interview at a coffee shop near St. John the Divine. “It was impossible to imagine that with all the modern technology today, the building was constructed with such low-tech methods.”
“第一次看到建筑工地时，我感觉非常震撼，”徐冰在圣约翰教堂附近的一家咖啡店里接受访谈时回忆，“如今的技术这么发达，那栋建筑却用那么低水平的技术来修建，简直难以想像。”
The poor working conditions for the migrant laborers who were building such luxury towers, he said, “made my skin quiver.” Mr. Xu had such a violent reaction to what he saw that he decided to make the phoenixes rise, as it were, out of debris and workers’ tools that he salvaged from the construction site.
外来务工人员修建豪华的高楼大厦，工作环境却是那么可怜，徐冰说，“这让我不寒而栗。”他对此的反应十分激烈，于是他决定从那处工地搜集建筑残片和工人们使用的工具，用来创作凤凰展翅起飞的雕塑。
That was just a few months before the financial crisis of 2008. It was also when there was a government ban on all trucking and construction to ensure cleaner air during the Beijing Olympics. The building’s developers, afraid that the birds carried a message about waste, asked Mr. Xu if they could be gussied up, perhaps with a crystalline exterior.
几个月后就爆发了2008年金融危机。与此同时，为保证北京奥运会期间空气更加清洁，政府下令禁止一切卡车货运和建筑施工。这栋建筑的开发商担心建这对鸟儿让人误以为是废物，问徐冰能不能把它们装饰一下，比如加个水晶外框。
He declined, and, in the end, the developers rejected his birds. But Mr. Xu was determined to forge ahead. He had them constructed at a factory on the outskirts of Beijing, where they were to have taken take four months to complete. Instead, the process took two years, with Mr. Xu working from drawings, models and computer-generated diagrams. While they may appear to have the naïve quality of Chinese folk art, every inch — from beak to tail feather — was carefully considered.
徐冰拒绝了，于是开发商最终也拒绝了这对鸟儿。但徐冰决心继续完成它们。他在北京郊区的一个工厂里继续制作，预计用四个月时间完成。最终整个工作花费了两年，徐冰包办了绘画、制作模型和电脑制图等工作。它们的外观有着中国民间工艺的拙朴特点，但是从鸟喙到尾羽，每一分每一寸都经过悉心考量。
Their appearance in New York is not their first public outing. They were on view twice in Asia, in front of the Today Art Museum in Beijing and at the Shanghai World Expo in 2010.
在纽约的展出并不是它们的首次公开亮相，之前曾在亚洲展出过两次，分别是在北京的今日美术馆和上海的2010年世界博览会。
Judith Goldman, a writer and independent curator, saw the phoenixes at the factory in Beijing and decided they should be shown in the United States. “Xu Bing’s junkyard creatures resonate with many meanings, and I thought no place would be more fitting than the cathedral’s great nave,” she said, and she contacted the cathedral.
作家兼独立策展人朱迪丝·戈德曼(Judith Goldman)曾在北京的工厂里见过这对凤凰，决定把它们带到美国来展出。“徐冰的这件废物制作的作品有着多重含义，我觉得圣约翰主教座堂的正厅是最合适的地点，”于是她开始和教堂方面联系。
The Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, the dean of St. John the Divine, said that throughout its history, the church has used art, performances and talks to “create a discourse.” He called Mr. Xu “a global citizen who sees from this debris the human condition.”
圣约翰主教座堂的教长詹姆斯·A·科沃斯基博士(Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski)说，这座教堂在历史上曾多次用于艺术与表演，乃至“引发讨论的谈话”。他说徐冰是“从这堆残片中洞见人类状况的世界公民”。
“This beautiful, even sacred installation has transformational powers,” Dean Kowlaski went on. “This is not just a critique about laborers in China, it is about a subject that affects us all. It’s about fair pay and human wages for all people.”
“这个美丽的装置作品甚至是神圣的，拥有转变的力量，”科沃斯基教长说。“它不仅是对中国劳工状况的批评，也是一个感动我们所有人的题材。它关乎所有人都应享有公平薪酬和有人情味的工资。”
Before coming to New York, the birds made a stop at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in North Adams, where they were on view in a converted factory building for nearly a year, starting in 2012.
来到纽约之前，这对鸟儿曾在北亚当斯的马萨诸塞当代艺术馆逗留。自2012年初，它们被陈列在由工厂改建的展厅里，为时将近一年。
When they were at that museum, “what I found so interesting was that it almost seemed as though they were returning to their ancestral home,” Mr. Xu said, explaining that North Adams had been a 19th-century industrial center that fell victim to economic hardship.
当它们刚刚抵达艺术馆时，“有趣的是，它们好像回到老祖宗家里了，”徐冰解释说，北亚当斯是19世纪的工业中心，在经济困难时期衰落下去。
The phoenixes arrived in New York late last month on nine flatbed trucks. Together weighing over 12 tons and measuring 90 and 100 feet long, they required over 30 hoists and 140 feet of trussing to raise them so that they appear to be soaring through the cathedral. They will be on view for about a year.
上月月底，九辆平板卡车载着这对凤凰来到纽约。它们重达12吨，分别长达90英尺和100英尺（约合27.4米和30.4米），动用了30多台起重机和140英尺（约合42.6米）的捆扎带，把它们升到高处，使它们显得仿佛在教堂内飞翔。展出时间约一年。
“The birds have different meanings in different places,” Mr. Xu said. “This cathedral is monumental and very lofty, and the phoenixes now have a sacred quality.”
“这对鸟儿在不同的地方有着不同的涵义，”徐冰说，“这座教堂是纪念性的，非常巍峨庄严，所以这对凤凰在现在有了神圣的性质。”