Is there a Chinese word for chutzpah? If there is, the Shanghai artist Xu Zhen, often called the Maurizio Cattelan of China, fits the bill. Combining the roles of artist, curator and chief executive of his own corporation, MadeIn, he has forged a career of pushing buttons, consistently riling audiences with shocking installations though rarely provoking the Chinese government. He is considered the leader of a younger generation of Chinese artists who have disengaged from the Mao-driven paintings of the 1990s in favor of more conceptual projects. Xu Zhen (pronounced shoo-jen) is also the commissioned artist for the sprawling 2014 Armory Show, which opens on Thursday on Piers 92 and 94 in Manhattan with a focus on China.
汉语中有没有chutzpah（胆识）这个词？如果有，那它恰好可以用来形容上海艺术家徐震。他经常被称为中国的毛里齐奥·卡特兰(Maurizio Cattelan)。他是艺术家、策展人，还是自己的公司——没顶(MadeIn)公司——的首席执行官，他开创了一个激发别人情绪的事业，不断用令人震惊的装置作品激怒观众，不过很少激怒中国政府。他被认为是中国年轻一代艺术家的领军人，他们摆脱了20世纪90年代以毛为主的绘画，青睐更概念化的作品。徐震是庞大的2014年军械库艺术展的参展艺术家。该展览周四在曼哈顿的92号和94号码头开幕，重点关注中国。
Sitting recently in a Beijing coffeehouse in the 798 art district, the heart of a growing cultural sector, Mr. Xu, 37, laughed about this latest success while resisting easy categorization of himself as an artist. “Right now the term ‘global artist’ sounds insulting, but ‘Chinese artist’ sounds more insulting,” he said through a translator. “I am an artist from China in the environment of globalization, less interested in classifications of East or West.”
前不久，37岁的徐震坐在北京798艺术区——它位于一个发展中的文化区的核心位置——的一间咖啡馆里，他对最近的成功付之一笑，同时拒绝将自己简单地定义为艺术家。“现在‘全球艺术家’这个词听起来像骂人，但是‘中国艺术家’听起来更像骂人，”他通过一个翻译说，“我是全球化环境中的一个来自中国的艺术家，对东西方的分类不那么感兴趣。”
Across the street from the coffeehouse, the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art was hosting the three-month retrospective “Xu Zhen: A Production of MadeIn,” through April 20.
咖啡馆对面的尤伦斯当代艺术中心正在举办三个月的回顾展“徐震：没顶公司出品”，展览将持续到4月20日。
“There’s a certain gutsiness to Xu Zhen’s work,” said Thomas J. Berghuis, the new curator of Chinese contemporary art at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, who attended the show’s opening at the Ullens Center. The survey ranges from early examples like the artist’s first video, “Shouting” (1998), which depicts shocked crowds reacting to the off-camera screams of the artist, to “Movement Field” (2013), a garden with monuments and paths dedicated to well-known protest marches.
“徐震的作品有某种爆发力，”古根海姆博物馆(Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)的中国当代艺术新策展人托马斯·J·伯格休斯(Thomas J. Berghuis)说。他参加了尤伦斯中心的那场展览的开幕式。展览不仅包括徐震早期的一些作品，比如这位艺术家的第一个视频作品《呐喊》(1998)，也有2013年的新作《运动场》。前者记录了震惊的人群对镜头外的徐震尖叫的声音做出的反应；后者是一个花园，里面有纪念碑和道路，是向著名的抗议游行致意。
Mr. Berghuis was particularly intrigued by a full-scale supermarket from 2007 at the center of the retrospective. The packages on the shelves were all empty, evoking Warhol’s Brillo boxes, but they could be purchased at a register near the exit at typical grocery store prices. There is also “Physique of Consciousness” from 2011, with vitrines documenting the prayer positions of world religions. “This is work not meant just to be seen — it is meant to be felt as well,” Mr. Berghuis said.
伯格休斯对回顾展中央的一个全尺寸的超市特别感兴趣。这是徐震2007年的作品，货架上的包装盒都是空的，让人想起了沃霍尔(Warhol)的布里洛盒子，不过在出口附近的收银台能够以杂货店的正常价格买到这些商品。还有2011年的《意识形状》，玻璃橱窗里陈列着世界上各种宗教的祈祷姿势。“这个作品不仅意在让人们看见，也意在让人们感受到，”伯格休斯说。
The Armory Show will showcase Mr. Xu’s installation “Action of Consciousness” (2011), a 10-foot enclosed cube in which 50 giant objects are tossed high in the air by two hidden performers. The items range from a soft sculpture model of Tiananmen Square to a bust of van Gogh, and viewers outside will have only a second or two to observe them. “I think this artwork will be perfect against the backdrop of the Armory Show because at a fair people move very quickly to browse and only look at the art for a second,” Mr. Xu said, suggesting how the work is as much a critique as a celebration.
军械库艺术展将展示徐震的装置作品《意识行动》(2011)，它是一个10英尺的密闭立方体，两位隐藏起来的表演者把50个大物品抛到空中。那些物品各式各样，从柔软的天安门广场雕塑模型到梵高的半身像。外面的观众看到它们的时间只有一两秒钟。“我觉得这个艺术作品将非常契合军械库艺术展的背景，因为在展览上，人们走得很快，每件作品只看一秒钟，”徐震说。他暗示出这件作品是一种赞美，也是一种批评。
He won’t be there to gauge audience reaction, however; he has refused to fly since experiencing severe turbulence on a flight to Berlin in 2005. Staff members from MadeIn will attend in his stead while Mr. Xu follows the coverage on the Internet, his preferred way of tracking international art activity.
不过他不会去那里评判观众的反应，从2005年在去柏林的飞机上经历严重颠簸之后他拒绝再乘飞机。没顶公司的员工将替他出席，徐震将追踪网上的报道，他更喜欢用这种方式追踪国际艺术活动。
Mr. Xu founded MadeIn in 2009 as a wry reply to criticism of some major Chinese artists for relying on studio assistants to make their work rather than doing it themselves. In a variation on Warhol’s Factory, he turned such criticism on its head by playfully setting up his studio as a company and appointing himself chief executive. He described himself as a brand of MadeIn, like Marc by Marc Jacobs. In keeping with the confusion that such marketing inspires, MadeIn will also have a dealer’s booth at the Armory Show, presenting work by another young Chinese artist, Liu Pingyuan.
徐震2009年成立没顶公司。当时人们批评一些主要的中国艺术家自己不动手，全依靠工作室的助手完成作品，徐震成立公司是对此的讽刺回应。这个公司就像沃霍尔工厂的一个变体，他彻底颠覆了那些批评，顽皮地把自己的工作室设立成公司，任命自己为首席执行官。他说自己是没顶公司的一个品牌，就像马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)的马克品牌。为了与这样的营销带来的困惑保持一致，没顶公司将在军械库艺术展上设立一个交易商摊位，展示另一位中国年轻艺术家陆平原的作品。
Part of Mr. Xu’s role in the 2014 Armory Show will be establishing a signature look, said Philip Tinari, director of the Ullens Center and the show’s guest curator. “The Armory commission becomes much more fun when put in the hands of an artist who questions what it is to be an artist,” he said. “MadeIn embraced the idea of doing essentially a work for hire” — coming up with the image for the catalogs, T-shirts, the advertising — “and Xu Zhen embraced the commission as an extension of that project.”
尤伦斯中心的主管、2014年军械库展的特邀策展人田霏宇(Philip Tinari)说，徐震在2014年军械库展上的角色将是树立一个标志性的形象。“军械库的委约状落在一个质疑做艺术家的意义的艺术家手中把事情变得有趣了很多，”他说，“没顶公司乐意从事委约工作”——为展览目录、T恤和广告设计形象——“徐震把这个委约作品看做是那个作品的延伸。”
Each year the fair, founded in 1994, selects a different country for a Focus section; Mr. Tinari was responsible for selecting 16 Chinese galleries. More than half of them have never exhibited at a fair outside Asia, said Noah Horowitz, the event’s director, noting that the language barrier and the logistics of bringing the work to New York are formidable.
军械库艺术展始于1994年，每年选一个不同的国家作为重点单元。田霏宇负责挑选16家中国画廊。该活动的主管诺亚·霍罗威茨(Noah Horowitz)说，它们中间有一半多从未在亚洲以外的展览会上展出过，语言障碍以及把作品带到纽约的后勤准备让人畏惧。
The choice of China capitalizes on the growing interest of Chinese collectors in Western art and the galloping growth of the market for Chinese art, even with that sector’s surplus of fakes and auction scandals. Without mentioning the Frieze Art Fair, an annual contemporary art event in London that introduced a New York counterpart in 2012 and is viewed as a rival, Mr. Horowitz said he hoped that Focus: China would demonstrate that the Armory Show remains vital.
选择中国是利用中国收藏家对西方艺术越来越强烈的兴趣以及中国艺术品市场的蓬勃发展，虽然这个领域充斥着赝品和拍卖丑闻。霍罗威茨没有提到伦敦一年一度的当代艺术活动——弗里兹艺术展览会(Frieze Art Fair)。该展览2012年在纽约推出了一个类似的展览，被视为军械库展览的对手。霍罗威茨说他希望“关注：中国”(Focus: China)展能表明军械库艺术展仍是最重要的。
“It’s a smart move to reach out to China, where collectors are really beginning to embrace Western art after initially supporting so fabulously well their own indigenous artists,” said Kenny Schachter, a London writer, curator and dealer who has often been critical of the Armory Show. “Frieze is perceived as doing better and getting better participants,” he said, “so the Armory is definitely trying to catch up.”
“与中国联系是明智的决定，那里的收藏者们在最初惊人地支持本土艺术家之后真的开始接受西方艺术了，”肯尼·沙赫特(Kenny Schachter)说。他是伦敦的一位作家、策展人和商人，经常对军械库艺术展表示不满。“人们都认为弗里兹艺术展做得更好，吸引到了更优秀的参展商，”他说，“所以军械库肯定要努力赶上。”