LUANG PRABANG, Laos — President Obama has always liked to move to the languid rhythms of Southeast Asia. On Wednesday, he interrupted a hectic tour of China and Laos to reconnect with his inner Southeast Asian in this beguiling city of Buddhist temples and French colonial villas.
老挝琅勃拉邦——美国总统奥巴马一直想按照东南亚的闲散节奏活动。周三，在这座遍布着寺庙和法国殖民别墅的迷人城市里，他从日程紧凑的中国和老挝之行中抽出时间，重温内心深处的东南亚记忆。
Strolling shoeless under the sloped roofs of a Buddhist monastery, Wat Xieng Thong; shopping for paper lanterns on a side street in the middle of town; drinking from a coconut with a straw while peering at the boats on the Mekong River, Mr. Obama savored a tropical afternoon that he said reminded him of his early childhood in Indonesia.
他光脚在香通寺倾斜的屋顶下散步，在市中心的一条小巷子里买纸灯笼，一边观察湄公河上的船，一边用吸管喝着椰子里的椰汁。奥巴马说，在这座热带城市度过的这个下午，让他想起了在印度尼西亚的幼年时光。
“It’s very familiar to me,” Mr. Obama said at a town-hall-style meeting of young people at a university here.
“对我来说非常熟悉，”奥巴马在这里的一所大学里说。他在这里和年轻人举行了一场市政厅会议式的会面。
For all the nostalgia, there was a geopolitical rationale for the president’s pilgrimage to this former capital. He has made engagement with Southeast Asia a top priority of his foreign policy. And Mr. Obama used his session with the group, the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative, to promote one of the pillars of that policy, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 12-nation trade deal that includes several Southeast Asian countries but not China.
除了怀旧外，奥巴马到访这座曾是都城的城市，也有地缘政治上的原因。他把和东南亚交往作为自己外交政策的头号任务，并利用与“东南亚青年领袖行动计划”(Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative)的这次会议，来宣传该政策的其中一个支柱，即“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans Pacific Partnership)。该贸易协议包括多个东南亚国家，但中国不在其中。
A young Vietnamese man asked Mr. Obama about the failure of Congress to ratify the trade pact, and whether the prospects for the agreement would be better or worse under a new president. Qualms about the future of the agreement are widespread in Southeast Asia, where Brunei, Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam are all signatories to it.
一名越南青年向奥巴马问及美国国会不批准该协议的情况，以及新总统上台后，协议的前景会更美好还是更糟糕。东南亚普遍对该协议的未来感到不安。在这里，文莱、马来西亚、新加坡和越南都签署了这项协议。
“I believe it will be ratified because it’s the right thing to do,” Mr. Obama said, offering the audience a brief tutorial in Washington politics. “We’re in a political season now, and it’s always difficult to get things done,” he said. “Congress isn’t doing much right now; they’re all going home and talking to constituents, trying to get re-elected. After the election, people can refocus attention on why this is so important.”
“我相信协议会被批准，因为应该这么做，”奥巴马说，并向听众简单介绍了华盛顿的政治形势。“我们现在正处在一个政治季，这个时候向来难以完成什么事情，”他说。“国会现在没有太大的动作，他们都要回家，向选民发表讲话，争取能够连任。选举结束后，人们才能重新把注意力放在这件事为何如此重要上。”
Mr. Obama said the trade agreement was important because it would level the playing field and prevent certain countries from turning inward. Still, he acknowledged that free trade had come under political pressure in the last year, in part because the benefits of these deals are seen by some to flow to the owners of companies rather than workers.
奥巴马表示，该贸易协议之所以重要是因为它将创造一个公平的竞争环境，防止某些国家走向封闭。但他承认，过去一年里这项自由贸易协议受到了政治压力，这在一定程度上是因为一些人认为，这些协议的好处流向了公司的所有者，而不是员工。
Though Mr. Obama was 8,500 miles from Washington, he could not quite let go of election-year politics. At one point, he noted that many societies, particularly in the Arab world, fracture along tribal lines, and that the great virtue of the United States was its openness to people from all races, creeds and nationalities. “Not everybody in America agrees with me on this, by the way,” Mr. Obama said, apparently teeing up an unfavorable reference to the Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump. After a pregnant pause, the president smiled and said, “I’ll leave it at that.”
尽管身处距离华盛顿8500英里以外的地方，奥巴马也无法完全置身于大选年政治之外。他一度指出许多社会——尤其是阿拉伯世界——严守宗派界限，造成分裂，而美国最大的优点就是开放，向全世界各种族、信仰和民族敞开大门。“顺便说一句，不是所有美国人都像我这么想，”奥巴马说，显然是在暗批共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。在经过一个意味深长的停顿之后，这位总统微笑着说，“这个我就不多谈了。”
Mr. Obama expressed no misgivings about putting so much emphasis on Southeast Asia. “If we weren’t here, interacting and learning from you, and understanding the culture of the region, we’ll be left behind,” he said. “We’ll miss an opportunity.”
对于将这么多重心放在东南亚地区，奥巴马没有表现出丝毫的疑虑。“如果我们不来这里，与你们互动，向你们学习，理解这一地区的文化，我们就会被落下，”他说。“我们会错过一个机会。”
Mr. Obama has begun talking about what he will do after his presidency. One project is to continue his involvement with the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative, and he said his presidential center would work with the group. His wife, Michelle, plans to travel more abroad to work on global health issues, he said.
奥巴马已经开始谈论他在总统任期结束后的打算。其中一个是继续推进他在东亚年轻领袖倡议行动方面的工作。他表示，奥巴马总统中心将与该组织展开合作。他还提到，他的妻子米歇尔会进行更多海外旅行，从事全球健康方面的工作。
The president flew to Laos to attend a pair of regional conferences: the Association of Southeast Asian Nations meeting and the East Asia Summit meeting. He has a near-perfect attendance record at these meetings; George W. Bush and his secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, were regularly no-shows. The Obama administration’s cultivation of ties with Southeast Asia sets it apart from previous administrations, which have tended to place China at the fulcrum of their Asia policies.
奥巴马是来老挝参加两个地区性会议的：东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）峰会和东亚峰会(East Asia Summit)。在这类会议上，他有着近乎完美的参会记录；乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)及其国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)则是一贯缺席。奥巴马政府着力培养与东南亚的关系，使其有别于此前的各界政府，后者倾向于将中国作为美国亚洲政策的支柱。
While much of the president’s trip was devoted to the future, he spent time in Laos confronting America’s wartime past: a secret bombing campaign from 1964 to 1973 that left 80 million cluster bombs buried in rice paddies and forests, where farmers and children step on them and are killed or maimed (the State Department recently issued a warning for people playing the game Pokémon Go to watch out for land mines).
尽管奥巴马的出访大多是面向未来，但在老挝他却花时间直面了美国的战争历史：1964至1973年间进行的秘密轰炸行动，在老挝的稻田和森林里留下8000万枚集束炸弹，有农民和儿童踩上炸弹被炸死或致残（美国国务院最近发出警告，表示玩精灵宝可梦Go游戏的玩家要小心地雷）。
In Vientiane, the capital, Mr. Obama toured an American-funded center that searches for explosives in the countryside and that provides prosthetic legs and rehabilitation services to victims of ones that have gone off. “For the people of Laos, the war did not end when the bombs stopped falling,” Mr. Obama said, a display of prosthetic legs behind him. “They were spread across farmlands, jungles, villages, rivers. So for the last four decades, Laotians have continued to live under the shadow of war.”
在老挝首都万象，奥巴马参观了一个由美国资助的中心。该中心搜寻埋藏在乡间的地雷，为爆炸的地雷所伤的受害者安装假肢和提供康复治疗。“对老挝人民而言，炸弹不再从天而降的时候，这场战争并没有结束，”奥巴马说道，他的身后展示着一些假肢。“它们分布在各地的田间、丛林、村庄与河边。在过去的四十年里，老挝人持续生活在战争的阴影下。”
At a gala dinner in Vientiane for the summit meeting of the Association of Southeast Nations, Mr. Obama exchanged brief pleasantries with President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, two days after Mr. Duterte’s profane outburst against Mr. Obama led him to cancel what was to be their first meeting.
在万象举行的一次东盟峰会晚宴上，奥巴马与菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)进行了短暂地寒暄。两天前，杜特地用脏话咒骂奥巴马，导致后者取消了原本该是两人首次会面的计划。
A White House official did not say what the two men discussed, except to suggest that it was not substantive.
白宫官员没有透露两人交谈了些什么，只表示没有什么实质性内容。