In the Sahara, the African spurred tortoise lives for about a century. Thanks to modern technology, one named Franky has a shot at immortality.
在撒哈拉，苏卡达象龟能活大约一个世纪。得益于现代技术，一个名叫弗兰基的苏卡达象龟有可能长生不老。
“He gets about 10,000 viewers a month,” said Donnie Cook, the owner of Lou’s Pet Shop in Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., where Franky, an easygoing 17-year-old, spends his days transmitting over the Internet a nonstop tortoise-eye view of the world. “We get people from at least 30 states, plus Italy, France.” A family in California has even sent the store $50 to keep Franky in lettuce.
“每个月都会有大约1万名访客来看他，”密歇根州格罗斯波因特伍兹卢的宠物商店(Lou’s Pet Shop)店主唐尼·库克(Donnie Cook)说。弗兰基今年17岁，性格随和的他就住在卢的宠物商店里，平常他会在网上传播一个不间断拍摄地“龟眼看世界”的视频。“我们的访问者来自至少30个州，还有意大利和法国。”来自加利福尼亚州的一家人甚至给宠物店寄来50美元（约合300元人民币），确保弗兰基有足够的生菜。
Why should the National Security Agency have all the fun?
美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）凭什么独享所有的乐趣呢？
Franky’s fame illustrates the increasing surveillance of nearly everything by private citizens. Thanks to advances in miniaturization and cheap digital storage, tiny cameras are moving onto houses, people and nature. Everything is being filmed — from nannies and sleeping babies to vandalism-plagued parking lots to fireplaces awaiting Santa Claus.
弗兰基的出名正表明，普通人正越来越多地对几乎所有东西进行监控。微型化技术的进步以及便宜的数字存储让微型摄像头开始出现在住宅里、人身上以及自然中。一切东西都在被拍摄——从保姆到睡觉的婴儿，再到经常遭故意破坏的停车场和等待圣诞老人经过的壁炉。
YouTube gets notice for loading about 100 hours of video a minute. Dropcam, the maker of the camera atop Franky’s shell, uploads more than 1,000 hours of video a minute. That’s up about 500 percent over last year. Another 1,500 hours or more every minute is not recorded, but is presumably being watched live, according to Dropcam.
YouTube因为一分钟上传约100个小时的视频而受到关注。而制造弗兰基龟壳上摄像头的Dropcam，一分钟会上传超过1000小时的视频，这是去年的5倍。另外每分钟还有1500小时或更长时间的视频没被记录下来，不过应该是在被现场直播。
While the public is increasingly uncomfortable with the idea of government cameras and Internet snoops recording their daily behavior, there does not appear to be much introspection about routinely monitoring people, pets or handymen.
尽管大众对于政府使用相机和互联网监控记录他们的日常行为越来越反感，但对人、宠物或杂工的日常监控却似乎没有得到很多反思。
“It’s seductive to say that larger entities will do this, so we should, too, but something happens when everyone focuses this hard on their own passions,” said Evan Selinger, an associate professor of the philosophy of technology at the Rochester Institute of Technology. “Should the contractor like being seen all the time? What happens to the family unit? Sometimes the key to overcoming resentment is being able to forget things.”
“我们可以很轻易的说，大点的机构都会这么做，所以我们也应该这么做，但如果每个人都这么全神贯注地专注于自己热爱的事情，是会出问题的，”罗彻斯特理工学院(Rochester Institute of Technology)技术哲学副教授埃文·泽林格(Evan Selinger)说。“应该时刻监控承包商吗？在单个家庭里呢？有的时候，走出怨恨的关键在于能忘记一些事情。”
People have had cameras aimed at things like garage doors and ocean views for years. But cameras that transmit images over the Internet have become significantly smaller and cheaper in recent years and easier to set up — a natural formula for widespread consumer adoption.
多年来，人们都在车库门口放置摄像头，或者是用摄像头记录海景。但近些年，将图像传到网上的摄像头显著地变小了，并且越来越便宜，也更容易安置——这些因素自然而然地推动消费者广泛使用这些设备。
The number of homes in the United States with private security cameras increased by about five million last year, to 15 million homes, according to Parks Associates, a research company. A similar increase is expected this year, said Tom Kerber, Parks’s director of research.
研究公司帕克斯咨询(Parks Associate)称，过去一年，美国安装私人安保摄像头的住宅增加了近5百万个，达到1500万个。该公司的研究主管汤姆·克贝尔(Tom Kerber)说，预计今年将出现差不多的增幅。
People have found uses for the cameras in “monitoring their pets, the nanny or their kids, so much more besides security,” he said. New features like facial recognition should increase the popularity, he said.
人们找到了摄像头在安保之外的很多其他用途：“监控自己的宠物，监控保姆或自己的孩子，”克贝尔说。面部识别等新功能应该会让摄像头更受欢迎，他说。
On Christmas Eve, Dropcam activations were three times the normal rate, presumably to record presents being opened.
在平安夜，Dropcam的使用率是平常的三倍；应该是用它来记录打开礼物的时刻。
Dropcam’s high-definition video cameras sell for $149 and $199, and they can be monitored on most computing devices. The company has many competitors, like Axis Communications of Sweden, Pelco in the United States and several manufacturers in China. GoPro makes a popular, small camera often worn in sports like skiing. But Dropcam, just four years old, is the largest that stores video online and, like some of its competitors, also offers video storage and editing.
Dropcam的高分辨率摄像头的售价分别为149美元和199美元，并且它们可以通过大多数计算机设备进行监控。Dropcam有众多的竞争对手，像瑞士的安讯士(Axis Communications)、美国的派尔高(Pelco)以及中国的一些制造商。GoPro生产一款很受欢迎的小型摄像头，通常在进行滑雪等运动时佩戴。但刚成立四年的Dropcam，是拥有线上视频存储功能，以及和竞争者一样，提供视频存储和编辑服务的最大生产商。
Ambarella, which makes video chips for both Dropcam and GoPro, recently said it was working with Google on cameras for field workers to stream their activities back to headquarters.
为Dropcam和GoPro提供视频芯片的Ambarella近日表示，它正和谷歌合作，开发实地工作者使用的摄像头，用来将他们的活动发回总部。
“Anybody who deals with the general public will be wearing a camera,” said Chris Day, Ambarella’s vice president for marketing and business development. In the 15 months since its initial public offering, Ambarella’s stock has risen 470 percent, partly on anticipation of bigger sales.
“任何和大众打交道的人都会戴上摄像头，”Ambarella负责市场营销和业务开发的副总裁克里斯·达伊(Chris Day)说。自公司首次公开募股以来的15个月内，Ambarella的股价已上涨了470％，部分是由于对产品更高销量的预期。
Most of what comes from a private security camera like Dropcam are unrelenting shots of empty rooms and driveways, stuff that makes YouTube’s birthday parties, bloopers and instructional flossing videos seem irresistibly scintillating.
像Dropcam这样的私人安保摄像头拍下的大多是没完没了的空房间和车道的图像，这些东西让Youtube上的生日聚会、电视花絮以及牙线使用指导视频看上去具有无可阻挡的魅力。
But the sheer amount of private material means an enormous amount of meaningful behavior, from the whimsical to the criminal, is being stored as never before, and then edited and broadcast. People have recorded local vandals in action, raccoons in the garbage and in one case a dog turning on a stove and setting a house on fire.
但单纯的私人视频内容的巨大数量意味着，有相当数量的有意义行为——从怪诞行为到犯罪行为——都被以前所未有的方式存储下来，然后被编辑、播放。人们记录下当地正在发生的破坏公共财产的行为，车库里的浣熊，还有一个视频中，一只狗打开炉子，烧着了房子。
“We happen to be there when the crazy stuff happens,” said Greg Duffy, Dropcam’s co-founder and chief executive.
Dropcam的创始人、首席执行官格雷格·杜菲(Greg Duffy)说，“这些疯狂的事情发生时，我们恰好都在场。”
More important to him, though, he said, is what billions of hours of video means for citizen empowerment.
但他说，对他来说更重要的是，数十亿小时的视频对于公民赋权的意义。
“There are two ways to go — the government can have cameras everywhere, or people can have cameras, and there is distributed control,” said Mr. Duffy, 27. “It’s a world where you never have to be away from the things you care about.” Dropcam’s first investor was Mitch Kapor, who also co-founded the Electronic Frontier Foundation, an Internet civil liberties group.
“有两种情况 - 政府的摄像头无处不在，或者公众也可以有摄像头，这就分散了控制权，”27岁的达菲说。“在现在的世界里，你永远不必远离你所关心的事情。”Dropcam的第一个投资者米奇·考波尔(Mitch Kapor)，也是网络公民自由团体电子前哨基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)的联合创始人。
The cameras also talk. From her smartphone, Elizabeth Hamren, Dropcam’s vice president for marketing, watched her two children playing in the living room with their nanny when she saw something she didn’t like. “Jonathan, get off the train table!” she said into her phone. As the boy dismounted, she explained that she could also hear them, but tended to keep the sound off while at work.
摄像头还会说话。Dropcam的营销副总裁伊丽莎白·哈姆雷(Elizabeth Hamren)通过智能手机，看着她的两个孩子和保姆在客厅玩耍，她看到了不喜欢的事情。“乔纳森，从火车桌上下来！”她对着手机说道。乔纳森下来后，哈姆雷解释道，她也能听到他们，只不过上班时通常会关静音。
Police forces have for some years increased the number of cameras they wear and keep on the dashboards of patrol cars, leading to a YouTube subgenre of videos of traffic stops and shootings. Citizens have responded with videos of their own, at least since the beating of Rodney King in 1991.
好几年来，警察一直都在增加佩戴式摄像头以及放在巡逻车仪表板上的行车记录仪的数量，YouTube上因此出现了一类专门关于警察截停以及枪击案的视频。大众也通过自己拍摄的视频进行回应，至少是自从1991年罗德尼·金(Rodney King)被殴打一案发生以来。
Plummeting costs and ease of use have increased the activity, however. In Russia, dashboard cameras are a common tool to record police misbehavior. Last year’s meteor explosion over Chelyabinsk was immediately uploaded and shared around the world.
摄像头成本的骤降以及使用的方便性让越来越多人开始使用摄像头。在俄国，放在仪表板上的摄像头成为记录警察违规行为的常见工具。去年，流星在车里雅宾斯克上空爆炸后，立刻有人将视频上传到网上，在全世界传播开来。
But some of these cameras capture more personal moments. Seth Cummings, an entertainment marketer with a home in Lake Arrowhead, Calif., was showing his children pictures of their living room decorated for Christmas when his 5-year-old pointed out that this year they would be able to record Santa on the security video.
不过一些摄像头捕捉到了更私密的时刻。家住加利福尼亚州阿罗黑德湖的娱乐业营销员塞斯·卡明斯(Seth Cummings)正在给孩子们看他们为圣诞节而装扮的客厅的照片，这时他5岁的儿子说，今年应该能在监控视频中看到圣诞老人。
Mr. Cummings said Santa was caught about midnight.
卡明斯说，圣诞老人在午夜时分被逮了个正着。