SEATTLE — With its purchase of Nokia’s phone business, Microsoft is taking inspiration from Apple’s way of making products, bringing hardware and software under a single roof where they can be more elegantly woven together.
西雅图——微软(Microsoft)对诺基亚(Nokia)手机业务的收购，是在从苹果(Apple)制造产品的方式中汲取灵感，将硬件和软件集中到同一个屋檐下，从而把软硬件更优雅地编织在一起。
But Microsoft already bears a striking resemblance to Apple — the Apple of two decades ago, not the trailblazer of the mobile era. The $7.2 billion Nokia deal is unlikely to change that and catapult Microsoft up the ranks in the smartphone market.
其实，微软身上已经有了一些与苹果极为相似的地方，不过是20年前的苹果，而不是现在这个移动时代的先驱者。以72亿美元（约合441亿元人民币）的价格收购诺基亚，大概无法改变这一点，也无法大幅提升微软在智能手机市场上的排名。
That is because Microsoft, with its Windows phone operating system, is stuck in third place in that market, where all the oxygen has been drained by more established players.
这是因为微软及其Windows Phone操作系统，已经被困在了这一市场的第三位，而所有的氧气都已经被地位更为稳固的竞争者吸走了。
Apple and Google have won the hearts and minds of developers, who design the apps that lure consumers to their devices, while Samsung is the dominant maker of mobile phones, most of which run Google’s Android operating system. Even though Microsoft’s and Nokia’s products have won praise for their quality, they have arrived late.
苹果和谷歌(Google)已经赢得了开发者的心，而这些开发人员设计的应用又吸引消费者使用前者的设备。三星是移动电话产业的主导厂商，其大多数手机运行谷歌的Android操作系统。尽管微软和诺基亚的产品因其质量而赢得了赞誉，但它们来晚了。
“What matters is not the phone per se but a dynamic app and services ecosystem,” said Brad Silverberg, a former senior Microsoft executive who is now a venture capitalist in the Seattle area.
微软前高管布拉德·西尔弗伯格(Brad Silverberg)说，“重要的不是手机本身，而是活跃的应用和服务生态系统。”他现在是西雅图地区的一名风险投资人。
Microsoft’s predicament is a flashback to the situation Apple found itself in during the early 1990s. At that time, Apple arguably had a superior computer product, the Macintosh, but it languished as PCs running Microsoft’s Windows operating system engulfed most of the market. One of the biggest problems for Apple then was that Microsoft had succeeded in gaining the allegiance of software developers, who produced a bounty of applications.
微软当前的困境，重现了20世纪90年代初期苹果遇到的状况。当时，苹果可以说拥有更优秀的电脑产品麦金塔(Macintosh)，但却因为运行微软Windows操作系统的个人电脑(PC)吞噬了大部分市场而走向没落。当时苹果面临的最大问题之一是，微软成功地获得了软件开发者的支持，后者推出了丰富的应用程序。
“They’re stuck in the same vicious cycle that Apple was in 20 years ago,” said Benedict Evans, an analyst with Enders Analysis, a research firm, and a former strategist in the wireless industry.
恩德斯分析公司(Enders Analysis)分析师贝内迪克特·埃文斯(Benedict Evans)说，“他们陷入了苹果在20年前遇到的恶性循环。”埃文斯曾作为策略师为无线通讯企业效力。
The challenges for the marriage of Nokia and Microsoft go far beyond support from developers. Microsoft is in the midst of the biggest organizational changes in its 38-year history. In mid-July, Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, unveiled a plan to restructure the company’s often clashing fiefs into business groups intended to cooperate more.
诺基亚和微软的联姻所面临的挑战远不仅是赢得开发者的支持。微软正在经历其38年历史中规模最大的组织结构变动。7月中旬，微软首席执行官史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)宣布了一项计划，要将公司内经常冲突的部门重组为业务集团，从而改善内部合作。
While the new organization seemed to set up Mr. Ballmer as the maestro in charge of keeping the various groups in harmony, he stunned the tech industry late last month by announcing his plans to retire from Microsoft within 12 months. Mr. Ballmer said he was leaving earlier than planned because he felt the company needed a leader prepared to stay longer. That fueled speculation that Mr. Ballmer had been encouraged to leave by Microsoft’s board.
尽管新的组织结构似乎把鲍尔默安排成了保证各业务集团发出和谐悦耳声调的指挥家，但他上个月却宣布会在12个月内从微软退休，令科技产业十分震惊。鲍尔默说，他比原计划提前离开，是因为他认为公司需要一个准备待更长时间的领导者。这让人们揣测，是微软董事会鼓励鲍尔默离开的。
Blending a major acquisition into a company is challenging enough in times of calm. Doing so with the unexpected management change at Microsoft could make it even harder, tech industry executives and analysts said.
即便是在稳定时期，让大举收购的业务部门融合进公司也相当有挑战性。科技产业高管和分析师表示，在微软出乎意料地发生管理层变动时，进行整合会更加困难。
“The issue I wonder about is the amount of complexity Microsoft is taking on its business by absorbing Nokia at the same time it is reorganizing at the same time Windows 8 is faltering,” said Michael Mace, a former executive at Palm and Apple who now runs an app development company in Silicon Valley, Zekira. “It’s scary from that standpoint.”
“我考虑的问题是，微软当前正在进行重组，同时Windows 8也遭遇了挫折，此时吸收诺基亚会对微软的业务带来很大的复杂性，”前Palm和苹果高管迈克尔·梅斯(Michael Mace)说。“从那个角度看，局面很恐怖。”梅斯现在在硅谷经营着一家名为Zekira的应用开发公司。
While Mr. Ballmer plans to leave Microsoft after a successor is found, he was very much involved in cutting the Nokia deal. Over the last several months, Mr. Ballmer and his deputies met in places like Redmond, Wash., London and Helsinki with counterparts in the talks, led by Risto Siilasmaa, Nokia’s chairman. The style of Mr. Ballmer, an exuberant leader with a booming voice, was a stark contrast to the reserved, gentlemanly manner of Mr. Siilasmaa, according to a person present during many of the meetings.
鲍尔默打算在找到继任者后离开微软，他在与诺基亚达成协议的过程中扮演了重要角色。在过去几个月，鲍尔默及其副手们在华盛顿州雷德蒙德、英国伦敦和芬兰赫尔辛基等地，与由董事长里斯托·席拉斯玛(Risto Siilasmaa)带领的诺基亚谈判人员举行了会晤。一名在多次会议中在场的人士透露，鲍尔默作为一名声音洪亮、热情洋溢的领导者，与拘谨克制、彬彬有礼的席拉斯玛风格迥异。
Microsoft is under enormous pressure to reinvent itself for a world where mobile devices are the animating force in technology, rather than personal computers. Sales of PCs are suffering the most prolonged decline in their history. Two powerful pistons of Microsoft’s business — Windows and the Office suite of applications — are tied to closely to the health of the PC market.
现在移动设备才是让世界激动人心的力量，而不是个人电脑，此时微软面临着巨大的压力，亟需重新塑造自己。个人电脑销量正在经受有史以来持续时间最长的下滑，而微软业务的两大驱动力，Windows和Office软件包与PC市场的健康关联又过于紧密。
The deal for Nokia, which was reached late Monday, plunges Microsoft deeper into hardware than ever before. It is a business with enormous complexities — managing sprawling overseas supply chains, for one — that are not as prevalent in the software business. While it has had success in hardware through its Xbox video game console, Microsoft has also badly stubbed its toe in this area. It recently took a $900 million charge stemming from slow-moving sales of Surface, a tablet computer it created to compete with the iPad.
收购诺基亚的交易是在周一晚些时候达成的，这让微软涉足硬件领域的程度前所未有地加深了。硬件业务十分复杂，首先就需要管理规模庞大的海外供应链，而这种情况在软件业务中却并不多见。尽管曾在硬件领域取得过一些成功，如Xbox游戏机，但微软也在这个领域遭遇了惨重的挫折。最近由于平板电脑Surface销量不佳，微软记录了9亿美元的损失。这款平板电脑是微软为了与iPad竞争而推出的。
Unlike some companies like BlackBerry that have missed technology shifts, Microsoft still has vast financial resources that could give it a lot of room to develop a mobile strategy that produces results. Because of the huge profits it makes from its flagship software business, “Microsoft has choices most companies don’t,” said Bill Whyman, an analyst at ISI Group.
不像某些错失科技产业转变的公司，如黑莓(BlackBerry)，微软仍然有雄厚的财力，因而也有很大的空间制定一个行之有效的移动战略。因为能从其主打的软件业务中取得巨额利润，ISI集团(ISI Group)分析师比尔·威曼(Bill Whyman)说，“微软拥有多数公司并不具备的选择空间。”
Nokia remains the second-biggest maker of cellphones in the world, when inexpensive feature phones are considered as part of the calculation. The company has footholds in large emerging markets like India that could eventually move to smartphones.
如果计入廉价的功能机，诺基亚仍然是世界第二大手机生产商。诺基亚在印度等大型新兴市场有着稳固的地位，这种地位最终可能会过渡到智能手机上。
Microsoft and Nokia became partners over two years ago, when Nokia agreed to standardize its smartphones on Microsoft’s mobile operating system. In an interview on Monday night, Mr. Ballmer said he believed that Microsoft and Nokia had “done incredibly well in the last couple of years” in the mobile market and that the Windows Phone operating system had emerged as a “clear No. 3” in smartphones.
微软和诺基亚在两年前成为合作伙伴，当时诺基亚同意以微软的手机操作系统对自己的智能手机实现标准化。在周一晚间的一次采访中，鲍尔默表示，他认为微软和诺基亚过去两年里，在移动市场上“成绩相当好”，而且Windows Phone操作系统在智能手机市场上，也已经“明确地位列第三”。
But that is far from No. 1 in this arena. Microsoft’s software ran on 3.7 percent of the smartphones shipped during the second quarter, compared with 13.2 percent for Apple and 79.3 percent for Android, according to IDC.
不过这跟赛场上的第一名相去甚远。IDC数据显示，在二季度出货的智能手机中，运行微软操作系统的占3.7%，与之相对比，苹果有13.2%，Android则有79.3%。
Microsoft has argued that the selection of apps available for its phones is improving all the time. There are still big developers that have not produced software for Windows Phone, like Facebook’s Instagram, but far fewer than there used to be. The company says there are more than 170,000 Windows Phone apps.
微软表示，其手机上可供选择的应用总量一直在增加。但仍有一些大牌开发商尚未针对Windows Phone开发软件，如Facebook旗下的Instagram，但这批开发者的数量比过去少了很多。微软表示，Windows Phone应用已经超过17万款。
One unsettling possibility for Microsoft in mobile is what has occurred in the Internet search market, where the company’s Bing search engine lags far behind the market leader, Google. Microsoft has conducted exhaustive research showing that Bing search results are equivalent or better than those of Google. But the affinity for the Google brand is strong for most people.
不过在移动市场上，微软仍然面临着一种发生在互联网搜索市场的令人不安的可能性。在搜索市场上，微软的必应(Bing)搜索引擎与市场领导者谷歌相比，落后甚远。该公司做了详尽的研究来证明，必应搜索的结果与谷歌搜索相当，甚至比谷歌更好，然而多数人还是喜爱谷歌品牌。
The question is whether a similar perception dooms Microsoft’s mobile phones to the margins of the industry.
问题是，消费者类似的感受，会不会让微软的手机受困于行业边缘？
“They’re making something arguably very well designed, but it doesn’t matter,” Mr. Evans, the analyst, said. “I think they’re late.”
“可以说他们生产的东西设计非常好，但这也没什么用，”分析师埃文斯表示。“我觉得他们来晚了。”