Anticlimax (noun) 1. An event or conclusion that is far less important, powerful or striking than expected. 2. The release of Microsoft Office for the iPhone.
反高潮（名词）：1. 指在重要性、力度和震撼力上远远低于预期的事件或结局。2. 指的是微软(Microsoft)发布iPhone版微软Office软件。
Office for iPhone is big news, but not because the software is earthshaking. No, it’s a big deal primarily because of the politics of the situation — the optics, as public relations people say.
iPhone版Office软件是个大新闻，不过，这不是因为该软件的颠覆性。不是这么回事，它这么要紧，主要是目前的形势使然——用公关人士的话说，是形象问题。
Here is Microsoft — the once-mighty software global overlord, years into its repeated failures to produce a successful smartphone — creating an app that lets you edit Word, Excel and PowerPoint files on the gadget that defeated it, the iPhone. It’s as if somewhere along the line, Microsoft executives started wearing “If you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em” T-shirts.
微软的形象是这样的，这个曾经实力强大的全球软件业霸主，历经多年想生产一款成功的智能手机，却屡屡失败，它制造了一款应用软件，能让你在一个击败了它的小装置上编辑Word、Excel和PowerPoint文件，这个小装置就是iPhone。这就像是不知从何时开始，微软的高管们穿起了印有“不能击败他们，就加入他们”字样的T恤衫。
Microsoft, of course, doesn’t see it that way. The company reports tiny but measurable upticks in sales of its own Windows Phone (which actually is a terrific phone). So why, then, did Microsoft create Office Mobile for the iPhone?
当然，微软不这么看这件事。据该公司通报，其旗下Windows Phone（这实际上是一部不错的手机）的销售出现了微弱却显而易见的上扬。所以，为什么微软还要为iPhone打造移动办公软件Office Mobile呢？
Here’s a hint: You can’t buy the Office Mobile app outright. It’s free with your paid subscription to Microsoft’s Office 365 plan, which costs $100 a year. It’s a service that lets you download Word, Excel and PowerPoint to up to five Mac or Windows computers.
提示一下：Office Mobile不是直接可以买的。对于每年支付100美元订购了微软Office 365计划的用户来说，该应用是免费的。通过该服务，你可以把Word、Excel和PowerPoint下载到最多五台配有Mac系统或Windows系统的电脑上。
Since Office 365 arrived, Microsoft has been busily trying to sweeten the offer. Office 365 membership gets you one hour of free phone calls a month using Skype. It also gives you 20 extra gigabytes of storage on the SkyDrive, an online hard drive for backing up or transferring documents. (Nonsubscribers get 7 gigabytes free.)
自Office 365面世以来，微软一直忙着设法让该软件变得更诱人。Office 365的会员资格让你每月可以免费使用Skype和电话通话一小时。会员资格还使你在SkyDrive上享有20GB的额外存储空间，SkyDrive是一种网络硬盘，用于备份或传递文件。（非付费用户只有7GB免费空间。）
And now it gets you this app for iPhone (iPhone 4 and later) and iPod Touch (5 or later). That’s why its impressively clunky full name is Office Mobile for Office 365 Subscribers. (Office Mobile is already available on Windows Phones, and doesn’t require any subscription.)
现在，会员资格给你提供了iPhone版（可用于iPhone 4 以及之后的版本）以及iPod Touch版（5或之后的版本）的移动办公应用。这也是为什么它会叫“Office 365付费用户移动办公软件”(Office Mobile for Office 365 Subscribers)这么一个拗口得令人难忘的名字。
You can run the app on up to five iPhones. If you ever stop paying for your Office 365 membership, the app stops working. Your documents are safe in that case, however. They’re both on your phone (until you delete the app) and on your free SkyDrive.
你可以最多在五部iPhone上运行该应用。如果你在任何时候停付你的Office 365会员费，该应用都将停止工作。不过，在那种情况下，你的文件是安全的。它们既存储在你的手机里（直到你删除了该应用为止），也存储在你免费的SkyDrive空间里。
To use the app, you enter your Office 365 name and password. Once you’ve signed in, you see a list of all the Word, Excel and PowerPoint files that you’ve stashed on your SkyDrive. When you select a document’s name, it rapidly downloads to your phone, and you can work on it without an Internet connection. Next time you’re online, the changes get sent back to the SkyDrive original. You can also use Office Mobile to edit documents that people sent to you as attachments in the iPhone’s Mail app.
使用该应用时，你要输入你的Office 365用户名和密码。一旦登录，你就会看到一份列表，上面列有你在SkyDrive存储的Word、Excel和PowerPoint文件的名称。当你选择了一个文件名，它会迅速下载至你的手机，你可以在没有互联网连接的情况下编辑该文件。当你下一次上线时，这些变动会被传回SkyDrive存储的原件中。你还可以使用移动办公软件，在iPhone的邮件应用中编辑他人以附件形式发送给你的文件。
But once you tap a document to open it, you quickly discover that this app isn’t anything like the full Microsoft Office — it’s more like the Microsoft Vestibule. It’s extremely stripped down. It offers only the features Microsoft thinks you’ll realistically use on a bus or in the doctor’s office with nothing but your phone in hand.
不过，一旦你点击一个文件打开它，你很快就会发现，该应用和完整版的微软Office软件毫无相似之处，而是更像微软“门厅”(Microsoft Vestibule)。该软件极其简约。它只提供微软认为你在一辆公交车、或者医生的办公室里能够切实使用的功能，前提是你什么都没带，只有一部手机在手里。
The miniature Word module, for example, offers comments, outline view, bold/italic/underline/strikethrough styles, font and background colors and highlighting. You type, cut, copy and paste using variations on the iPhone’s standard finger gestures. And when you open a Word document, it jumps to the spot where you were last reading on your computer. Slick.
举例来说，这个迷你版的Word模块提供批阅、大纲视图、粗体/斜体/下划线/删除线模式、字体和背景颜色以及高亮模式操作。你可以变着法利用iPhone标准的手指操控动作，实现输入、剪切、复制和粘贴功能。当你打开一个Word文档时，它会跳到你在电脑上最后阅读的那个节点。很巧妙。
Notably absent: style sheets (normal, heading 1 and so on). Spelling checker. An undo command. The ability to change the font or insert a graphic. You can make the type bigger or smaller, but you can’t specify a size by number. Layout-intensive documents — lots of boxes, embedded graphics and so on — sometimes don’t come through to the phone fully intact.
明显的欠缺：样式表（“正文”、“标题1”等等格式）。拼写检查功能。撤销命令。改变字体或插入图片。你可以把字体变大或变小，但是不能设定一个字号值。版式复杂的文档——有许多的文本框、嵌入图片等等——有时候无法完好无损地显示在手机上。
The Excel module is by far the most fully featured app. It displays most elements of a spreadsheet, including charts and graphics. You can scroll around with your finger, zoom in or out with two fingers, lock a row or a column so it doesn’t scroll, rotate the phone for a wider view, edit comments, flip into outline view, edit formulas, create graphs, change numbers, sort, find, filter and format text and numbers. If the sheet has multiple pages, you can switch among using bottom edge tabs, exactly as on a computer. There’s an undo command. (Why here, and not in Word?)
Excel模块是目前看来功能最完整的应用。它可以显示多数电子表格的元素，包括图表和图形。你可以用手指拖滚，双指缩放，锁定某一行或列不滚动，旋转手机获得宽屏视图，编辑评语，翻转到提纲视图，编辑公式，制作图形，改变数字、排序、查找，及过滤文字和数字，并设定它们的格式。如果表格有多页，你可以用底部的标签栏切换，跟电脑上一样。这里有一个撤销命令按钮。（为什么这里有，Word没有？）
Then there’s the PowerPoint module, which is only a shadow of an echo of a memory of the real thing. You can’t even create PowerPoint documents in Office Mobile; you can only open existing ones. Even then, you can’t add new slides or duplicate existing ones.
然后就是PowerPoint模块了，这东西跟真的PowerPoint就是名字像而已。在Office Mobile里甚至都不能创建PowerPoint文档；只能打开已有的东西。就算打开了，你也不能加新的幻灯片，或者复制已有的。
You can move slides, hide them, edit the text on them, edit your speaker notes or run the slide show for practice. (Your notes are visible when you hold the phone upright. When you turn it sideways, the notes disappear and the slide fills the screen.)
你可以移动、隐藏幻灯片，编辑上面的文本，编辑你的讲者笔记或播放幻灯片用于演练。（你的笔记在竖着拿手机时能看到。横着拿笔记就消失了，幻灯片充满整个屏幕。）
Notably absent: everything else. Microsoft seems to believe that nobody will do much creative work on a slide show on the tiny phone screen and that the only work that’s practical there is fine-tuning and rehearsing your talk.
明显的欠缺：其他所有一切。微软似乎认为没人会在小小的手机屏幕上进行创造性的幻灯片制作，唯一用它要做的就是一些微调，还有演讲排练。
Office Mobile is a nice perk for Office 365 subscribers. It’s simply and fluidly designed. And it’s a cinch to learn. You’d never guess that it’s the distant relative of a software suite that’s about as svelte and lovely as Jabba the Hutt. But as an iPhone version of Microsoft Office, it’s almost ridiculously limited.
Office Mobile是Office 365付费用户的一个不错的福利。它的设计简单、流畅。学习起来很容易。很难想象一个“苗条可人”如“赫特人贾巴”(Jabba the Hutt)的软件套件会有这么个远房亲戚。但是作为微软Office的iPhone版，它的局限性简直到了荒唐的地步。
Surprisingly enough, the Internet is teeming with Office apps for the iPhone — made by non-Microsoft companies. Better ones, more complete ones, no-subscription-required ones.
令人颇为意外的是，互联网上到处都是用于iPhone的Office应用——由微软以外的公司开发。更好，更完整，不需要付费注册。
For example, Apple’s own Pages, Numbers and Keynote apps ($10 each) can edit Office documents, as can the free Google Drive app (text and spreadsheet documents only).
比如苹果(Apple)自己的Pages、Numbers和Keynote应用（售价皆为10美元）可以编辑Office文档，还可以用免费的Google Drive应用（只支持文本文档和电子表格）。
Finally, you can always use the online versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint — no charge — courtesy of the Office Web Apps. They’re a little awkward to use on a tiny phone screen, but at least they’re free.
再不济还可以用Office网络应用提供的在线版Word、Excel和PowerPoint，而且这都是免费的。在手机小屏幕上用有些别扭，但至少不花钱。
And you don’t need any extra software to open and read, but not edit, Office documents. The iPhone can do that all by its little self.
如果不编辑，只是打开和阅读Office文档是不需要任何额外的软件的。小小一台iPhone本身就可以做到。
In the end, then, Office Mobile for iPhone is very little, very late. Its non-Microsoft competitors are already far more useful. Unless you want to sign up for Office 365 anyway, the other apps are a much better value, too.
那么，总而言之，iPhone版Office Mobile是一个很小的东西，来的也太晚。它的非微软竞争对手已经比它好用太多。除非你一定要用Office 365，其他应用比它划算多了。
That’s right, anticlimax fans, the wait is over. The question is, Why were we waiting?
没错，反高潮的粉丝们，这场等待结束了。问题是，我们当初为什么要等待呢？