SEATTLE — At a time when many people in business believe the number of products at Microsoft should be getting smaller, it is about to become a lot bigger.
西雅图——业界人士都认为微软(Microsoft)应当减少产品数量，它反而要大幅增加数量了。
Microsoft’s $7.2 billion acquisition of Nokia’s handset and services operations, when the deal closes early next year, will increase the company’s head count by 30 percent and add a big, new hardware unit to a dizzying variety of businesses — an unusual situation in an industry where focus is often prized more than breadth.
微软斥资72亿美元收购诺基亚(Nokia)的手机和服务部门。待明年初交易完成后，公司的员工总数会增加30%，令人眼花缭乱的业务中会新增一个规模庞大的硬件部门，在崇尚专注，而非广度的行业里，这样的情况很不寻常。
It’s a concern to everyone from academics to Microsoft alumni. A list of missed opportunities and disappointing investments at the company in the past decade in areas like smartphones, tablets and Internet search have led to the belief that a more focused, nimble collection of mini-Microsofts could respond more effectively to the never-ending flow of disruptive technologies nibbling at its foundations.
从学术界到微软员工对此均表示担忧。公司在过去10年间错失了一系列机会，并在许多领域进行了多项令人失望的投资，如智能手机、平板电脑和互联网搜索，这让人们认为，组建几家更专注、更灵活的“迷你微软”才能够更有效地应对颠覆性技术浪潮对微软根基不断的蚕食。
“It is very hard to be a broad-based tech conglomerate,” said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
“做一个覆盖面广的大型科技集团很难，”哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)的教授戴维·约菲(David Yoffie)说道。
Thirteen years ago, Microsoft’s competitors and a federal judge demanded that Microsoft be split up because of its market power. But trying to do too much rather than wielding too much power is the issue now.
13年前，竞争者们和一位联邦法官因微软的市场势力，要求对其进行拆分。但现在的问题是它想要做的事太多，而不是左右市场的势力太强。
Microsoft already has a video game console, the No. 2 Internet search engine, a major Web portal, an enormous corporate software business, an operating system for personal computers, clouding computing services and applications software. The company is a mash-up of the businesses in which competitors like Google, Yahoo, Oracle, Apple and Nintendo specialize, putting an enormous burden on the company’s chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, who has announced plans to retire within the next 12 months.
微软已经拥有一个游戏机部门、排名第二的互联网搜索引擎、一个大型门户网站、一个巨大的企业软件部门、一款个人电脑操作系统、还有云计算服务，以及诸多应用软件。公司混杂的各种业务正是谷歌(Google)、雅虎(Yahoo)、甲骨文(Oracle)、苹果(Apple)和任天堂(Nintendo)等竞争者所专精的，这也成为公司首席执行官史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)的沉重包袱。他已宣布计划在未来一年内退休。
Microsoft’s complexity will make its search for a replacement for Mr. Ballmer more challenging, since the job will require a person with an uncommon array of skills, including fluency in corporate and consumer markets, hardware, software and Internet services. Mr. Ballmer recently announced a sweeping reorganization of the company intended to improve its agility, though its huge portfolio of products will remain intact.
微软的复杂性使得为鲍尔默寻找继任者极具挑战性。这个工作要求任职者有诸多非凡技能，包括谙熟企业和消费者市场，以及硬件、软件和互联网服务。鲍尔默近期宣布对公司进行大规模重组，以提高公司的敏捷度，但该公司巨大的产品组合却纹丝未动。
“It makes it harder to manage, which is a challenge for Microsoft no matter who the successor is,” said Mr. Yoffie. Long before Mr. Ballmer announced his retirement, he and Bill Gates, the Microsoft chairman and co-founder, had both quietly acknowledged that identifying a new leader for Microsoft would be hard. A person who spoke to Mr. Gates several years ago on the subject of succession recalls the Microsoft chairman saying he would support replacing Mr. Ballmer if he could think of someone who could do a better job.
“这就让管理更加困难。无论谁继任，这都是微软的大问题，”约菲教授表示。早在鲍尔默宣布退休之前，他和微软董事长及联合创始人比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)都曾私下承认，很难为微软找到新的领导人。几年前和盖茨谈论过继任者问题的一位人士记得盖茨说，如果能找到更加出色的人选，他支持把鲍尔默替换下来。
Similarly, another person said Mr. Ballmer himself said a few years ago he would step aside if a better chief executive could be found. These people spoke on the condition that they not be named because the conversations were private.
类似的，另一知情人士透露，鲍尔默自己几年前也表示如果能找到更好的CEO人选，他愿意让贤。由于以上都涉及私人谈话内容，该人要求在本文中不透露姓名。
Larry Cohen, a spokesman for Mr. Gates, did not respond to a request for comment. Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft, also declined to comment.
盖茨的发言人拉里·科恩(Larry Cohen)没有回应发表评论的请求。微软发言人弗兰克·肖(Frank Shaw)也拒绝评论。
In 2000, when Microsoft’s business was simpler than it is now, Thomas Penfield Jackson, a federal judge, ruled that because of violations of antitrust law, Microsoft should be split into two companies — one focused on Windows and the other on applications. An appeals court later threw out the breakup order after deciding Judge Jackson had tainted the legal proceedings by making comments to the press about the case.
2000年，在微软的业务比现在更单一的时候，联邦法官托马斯·彭菲尔德·杰克逊(Thomas Penfield Jackson)裁定微软违反了反垄断法，应一分为二——一家公司专门从事Windows业务，另一家专门经营应用软件业务。后来杰克逊法官因在媒体上对案件发表评论被认定玷污了法律程序，上诉法院后来驳回了分割微软的判决。
Pundits, business professors and alumni of Microsoft have spent years pondering whether, in hindsight, such a breakup might have given the resulting “Baby Bills” the agility to compete better. Several of Microsoft’s businesses would be substantial stand-alone companies, with Windows accounting for $19.2 billion in revenue for the fiscal year ending in June, and its business division, dominated by its Office applications, at $24.7 billion. A third business, servers and tools, had revenue of $20.3 billion in the period — compared with the $27.5 billion in software revenue at Oracle in its latest financial year ending in May.
专家、商学院教授和微软的员工们几年来一直在思考，事后看来，如果当年进行了分割，也许敏捷的“小比尔们”能更好地参与竞争。微软的几项业务也会发展成有实力的独立公司。在截止于今年6月的财年里，Windows业务收入192亿美元，以Office软件为主的商用软件部门收入247亿美元。第三项业务，服务器和工具软件同期收入203亿美元——相比之下，在截至5月的最近一个财年里，甲骨文公司的软件收入为275亿美元。
Investors have clamored for Microsoft to get rid of its money-losing or less profitable businesses, seeing them as a drag on the stock price. Richard Sherlund, a longtime Microsoft analyst at Nomura Securities, believes the Xbox video game business and Bing search engine are good candidates for spinoffs.
投资者们早就吵着让微软放弃赔钱或不怎么赚钱的业务，认为这拉低了股价。野村证券(Nomura Securities)长期关注微软的分析师理查德·舍伦德(Richard Sherlund)认为，Xbox游戏业务和必应(Bing)搜索引擎就属于适合拆分出去的对象。
Mr. Sherlund has speculated that Microsoft could give Facebook, with which Microsoft has an existing partnership, control of Bing, in exchange for a share of revenue from the additional traffic it would drive to Facebook’s site. Mr. Sherlund estimates that Microsoft has accumulated losses of more than $17 billion in the search and online business.
舍伦德构想，微软可以让目前与它有合作关系的Facebook来掌管必应，为Facebook网站带来更多访问量，以此换取利润分成。据他估计，微软在搜索和在线业务方面累计的损失已超过170亿美元。
Still, while it has sold off or spun out smaller businesses in the past — the travel site Expedia originated at the company in the late ’90s — Microsoft has shown no interest in jettisoning major products.
然而，尽管过去微软出售或剥离过一些规模较小的业务——比如90年代后期开发的旅游网站Expedia——但它对放弃主要产品不感兴趣。
In its defense, Microsoft notes that its long line of products yields many synergies. Xbox uses a variation of the Windows operating system, while Bing provides search services that are tightly integrated with Windows, Xbox and the Windows Phone mobile operating system.
微软辩解说，旗下的大量产品能产生协同效应。Xbox使用Windows操作系统的一个变体，而必应提供的搜索服务与Windows、Xbox和Windows Phone移动操作系统紧密整合在一起。
Further, it could be argued that Microsoft’s competitors are recognizing that, like Microsoft, they need to develop products in areas once considered outside their expertise. Google bought Motorola Mobility to help it get into the hardware business. Apple has been on a start-up acquisition binge to improve its online mapping service. And Amazon, once entirely focused on consumers, has become an important supplier of cloud services to businesses.
微软还可进一步表示，它的竞争者也认识到，要和微软一样，去开发曾被视为自身专业优长领域之外的产品。谷歌收购了摩托罗拉移动(Motorola Mobility)，以便涉足硬件业务。苹果为了改进其在线地图服务大举收购创业企业。还有亚马逊(Amazon)，曾经只把注意力放在消费者上，现在它也是企业云服务的一个重要供应商。
Even with those changes, Mr. Yoffie of Harvard said Microsoft’s big rivals are still more focused than it is. “I think the fundamental question for the next C.E.O. of Microsoft,” he said, “is, what is his vision of Microsoft?”
即便有了这些变化，哈佛的约菲表示，与微软相比，与它竞争的这些大公司仍然更为专注。“我认为微软下一任CEO要面对的最根本问题是，”他说，“他对微软有怎样的愿景？”