SEATTLE — Last week, Microsoft’s chief executive hinted in a long company memo that big organizational changes were coming soon. That time has arrived.
西雅图——上周，微软(Microsoft)的首席执行官在一篇长长的企业备忘录中表示，公司即将迎来重大结构调整。这个时刻如今已经到来。
On Thursday, Microsoft is planning to announce layoffs that will substantially exceed the largest layoffs in the company’s history, according to several people briefed on the decision who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. Previously, the largest layoffs were in 2009, when 5,800 or so people were affected.
周四，几名知情人士在不具名的前提下透露，微软正计划宣布裁员，而且规模将大大超过公司历史上人数最多的一次裁员。此前，微软规模最大的裁员发生在2009年，当时约有5800人受到了影响。
Employees at the company’s campus in Redmond, Wash., are already bracing for the news. Human resources managers have begun reserving conference rooms for most of Thursday, most likely a sign that they will be used to meet with laid-off employees, a person with knowledge of the plans said. Employees will have an opportunity to question Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, about the cuts on Friday at a regular town hall meeting that was scheduled before the exact timing of the layoffs was known.
在微软位于华盛顿州雷德蒙德的总部，雇员们已经在为这则消息做准备了。一名知情人士透露，人力资源经理已经开始预订周四大部分时间的会议室。这很可能表明，它们将用来会见裁减的员工。微软员工将有机会在周五的例行直接见面会上就裁员问题向首席执行官萨蒂亚·纳德拉(Satya Nadella)提问。此次会议安排在日程表上的时候，确切裁员时间尚不得而知。
Frank Shaw, a company spokesman, declined to comment.
公司发言人弗兰克·肖(Frank Shaw)拒绝对此置评。
Large layoffs are a rarity at Microsoft. Its layoffs in 2009 came during the economic recession that followed the bursting of the housing bubble. Since then, Microsoft has had a few more rounds of staff reductions, but the number of employees let go were typically in the dozens or hundreds.
微软很少进行大规模裁员。2009年的那次发生在房地产泡沫破裂后的经济衰退期。那以后，微软还进行过数次裁员，但每次裁减的人数通常只有几十到数百人。
With 125,000 employees, even letting go thousands more than the 5,800 people it laid off in 2009 would represent a small portion of its work force. Bloomberg News earlier reported that Microsoft’s layoffs could be announced as early as this week.
微软共有12.5万名员工，即便此次裁员人数比2009年的5800人还多几千，也只是公司劳动力大军的一小部分。早些时候，彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)报道，微软最早将于本周宣布裁员信息。
Many current and former employees say Microsoft has grown too large and complex to compete effectively against other, more nimble companies.
许多微软现在或此前的员工表示，公司的规模已经变得太大，结构则太过复杂，根本无法有效地与其他更灵活的公司进行竞争。