If the tech business were fair, you would be considering the Nokia Icon for your next smartphone.
如果说科技行业是公平的，你可能会考虑让诺基亚Icon(Nokia Icon)成为你的下一个智能手机。
The Icon, which goes on sale this week for $199 with a two-year Verizon contract, has a lot to like: a graceful design, a brilliant display, a remarkable camera and an innovative set of microphones to make better-sounding home videos. The Icon runs Microsoft’s Windows Phone operating system, which has a cleaner and more coherent user interface than Google’s Android, and a more flexible and more informative home screen than Apple’s iOS.
本周，Icon的威瑞森(Verizon)两年期合约机以199美元开售。它有许多让人喜欢的特点：优雅的设计、华丽的显示屏、出众的相机，以及为改善自制视频声音品质而设计的一套创新性的麦克风。Icon使用的是微软(Microsoft)的Windows Phone操作系统，它的用户界面比谷歌(Google)的Android操作系统更干净、更统一，而它的主屏幕则比苹果(Apple)的iOS操作系统更灵活、信息量更大。
But the tech business isn’t fair.
然而，科技行业是不公平的。
While the Icon is nice, you should not make it your next phone if you expect to be able to do everything with your phone that you can do on Android or iOS. Like any Windows Phone, the Icon is a fundamentally hobbled device, all but locked out of the teeming ecosystem of new apps and smartphone-powered gadgets that are expanding tech’s frontiers.
虽然Icon不错，但是如果你想做到可以在Android或iOS操作系统上完成的所有事情，你就不应该选它作为你的下一款手机。和所有Windows Phone一样，Icon存在根本问题，它几乎无法进入那个热闹的生态系统，那里面有新应用，还有正在拓展科技边界的智能手机驱动设备。
While this disadvantage might not be apparent in your day-to-day use of the Icon — you’ll have no problem making calls and sending texts — the phone’s shortcomings will haunt you whenever you want to try the next great thing.
尽管这些不利因素或许在你日常使用Icon时可能不太明显——打电话和发短信没有任何问题——但每当你试图尝试下一代的酷炫产品时，这部手机的缺点就会产生影响。
If you want to use your phone to play the latest games, to experiment with new social-networking apps, to try the newest ways to pay for merchandise or to control the newest smartphone-connected devices (say, a smart thermostat), Windows Phone isn’t for you, at least not now. If you do choose a Windows Phone, go into it with your eyes open to the fact that you are most likely volunteering for a second-class digital existence.
如果你想用手机玩最新的游戏、体验新的社交网络应用、用最新的方式来为货物付款，或者控制与智能手机连在一起的最新设备（例如智能温控仪），那么Windows Phone绝对不适合，至少目前是这样。如果你还是选择了一款Windows Phone，那你就要睁大眼睛看清这个现实：你很可能是在主动要求过上二流的数字生活。
The Nokia Icon illustrates the tragedy of Windows Phone — and, in a larger sense, the tragedy of Microsoft and Nokia, two companies of once-legendary prowess that have struggled to find a foothold in the market for smartphones and tablets.
诺基亚Icon体现了Windows Phone的悲剧——从更广阔的层面来看，是微软和诺基亚的悲剧。这两家曾具有传奇色彩的巨头，正艰难地在智能手机和平板电脑市场上寻找立足点。
Two years ago, the two entered into a strategic partnership, and last year, Microsoft announced a plan to acquire Nokia’s mobile phone division.
两年前，这两家公司开始进行战略合作，去年，微软宣布计划收购诺基亚的移动电话业务。
Judged by their products alone, the partnership has been a staggering success. The Icon is just the latest in a series of fantastic Nokia Windows Phones, which have combined deep technical innovations (like the 41-megapixel camera in Nokia’s Lumia 1020) with a striking design sensibility. Nokia is making just about the best phones on the market today. Its lineup beats Samsung, HTC, and Motorola, and it is nearly on par with Apple.
单独从它们的产品来看，此次合作节节胜利。Icon不过是一系列出色的诺基亚Windows Phones中最新的一款。它们在科技方面有诸多重大的技术创新（比如给诺基亚Lumia 1020配置4100万像素摄像头），设计意识十分出色。可以说，诺基亚正在制造目前市场上最好的手机。它的系列产品超越了三星(Samsung)、HTC和摩托罗拉(Motorola)，几乎可以与苹果(Apple)媲美。
The tragedy is that the technology industry is not a meritocracy. Making great products is often not sufficient for success, and sometimes it’s not even required. In tech, marketing, branding, partnerships and timing can be as important as how well your product works.
悲剧的是，科技行业并不是一个根据能力来决定谁是统治者的行业。制造优秀的产品并不一定意味着能获得成功，有时甚至还不是必要的。在科技领域，营销、品牌化、合作和时机或许都与你的产品表现同等重要。
What’s more, how a company’s product works is largely dependent on the company’s position in the market. Microsoft and Nokia’s consumer businesses are governed by the vicious rules of network effects — the economic idea that products get better as more people use them. The more people who use a particular operating system, the more likely an app developer is to build for that system. And the more apps that are developed, the more the operating system appeals to consumers. The cycle builds on itself.
此外，一家企业产品的表现在很大程度上取决于公司在市场中的地位。微软和诺基亚的消费者业务受制于网络效应的恶性规则，也就是用户越多产品就会越来越好的经济学理念。使用某一种操作系统的人越多，应用开放商就越可能会为这个系统设计应用。开发出来的应用程序越多，这种操作系统对用户的吸引力就越大。这种循环会自行运转下去。
Microsoft loyalists will argue that I’m exaggerating the downsides of choosing a Windows Phone. In the last few years, Microsoft has aggressively courted developers — including sometimes offering payments — and the store is now growing quickly, with about 500 apps added every day. And Windows Phone has managed to attract many of the world’s most popular mobile apps. There are apps for Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Netflix, Vine and Pandora.
微软的忠实拥护者会说，我夸大了选择Windows Phone的缺点。过去几年，微软一直处心积虑地讨好开发人员——有时候还主动提供报酬——目前它的应用商店正在快速发展，每天都会增加大约500款应用。而且，Windows Phone还成功吸引了世界上许多最流行的移动应用程序。Facebook、Instagram、Twitter、Netflix、Vine和Pandora的应用一应俱全。
I sympathize with the position, too, that apps are overrated — that right out of the box, modern smartphones perform most functions that most people need, and lots of people can get by just fine without filling up their phones with extras.
对于应用受到了过度追捧的说法，我也颇为认同——开箱即用的当代智能手机就能满足多数人的多数功能需求，不用锦上添花，多数人也能过得不错。
And Microsoft’s market position is on the upswing. According to ABI Research, which tracks global mobile phone sales, shipments of Windows Phone devices in the last quarter of 2013 were up 104 percent over the last quarter of 2012, a higher growth rate than all other mobile operating systems. Yes, Windows Phone’s market share is still tiny — ABI says that only 4 percent of the smartphones shipped for the holidays ran Windows, compared with 18 percent for Apple and 77 percent for Android. But at least Windows Phone isn’t a dying platform like BlackBerry. It’s more accurate to call Windows Phone a long-shot platform, a system that could still catch a lucky break and take off, as sometimes happens in that unpredictable business.
况且，微软的市场地位呈上升势头。根据追踪全球手机销量的ABI Research公司的统计，2013年第四季度的Windows Phone设备出货量同比上涨了104%，增长率在所有移动操作系统中高居第一。当然了，Windows Phone的市场份额仍很微小。ABI称，节日季的智能手机出货量中，仅4%采用Windows系统，相比之下，18%装的是苹果的系统，77%是Android。不过，至少Windows Phone不是黑莓(BlackBerry)那样的即将入土的平台。更为准确的说法是，Windows Phone是个从长计议的平台，还是有可能行大运发达起来。在这个风云变幻的行业里，类似的事情时有发生。
But that’s small comfort to any potential customer. Even if you don’t crave every new app, you’re bound to run into situations where your phone’s limitations will stand in the way.
可是，这不大会安抚潜在的消费者。就算你并不渴求每款新应用，也必然会碰到手机的局限性成为拦路虎的时候。
Google, for instance, doesn’t make any apps for Windows Phone. You can still use some of Google’s services on the device, including Gmail, but you’ll be shut out of Google’s most innovative features, like the predictive personal assistant Google Now (which is available on both Android and iOS). Yes, this is Google’s fault, not Microsoft’s, but it’s still a headache. Like I said — this business isn’t fair.
比方说，谷歌公司没有为Windows Phone开发任何的应用。你还是可以在Windows Phone的设备上使用包括Gmail在内的部分谷歌服务，但你会被谷歌最具创新性的那些功能拒之门外，比如能够做出预测的个人助理Google Now（在Android和iOS上均可运用）。是的，错在谷歌，不怪微软，但还是让人头疼啊。正如我前面说过的，这个行业就是不公平。
Other Google services, including YouTube, are available through so-called unofficial apps created by programmers who aren’t associated with Google. The Windows Phone Store is clogged with these unofficial apps, and many aren’t quite up to snuff. The YouTube app — created by Microsoft — is barely worthy of the name. It simply opens up the video site in your Windows web browser; I found it mostly worked, though slower and without much of the design polish of the official YouTube apps found on iOS and Android. Other unsanctioned apps are disastrous. The unofficial app for the house-sharing service Airbnb — the only Airbnb app I could find — is in French.
谷歌的其他一些服务，比如YouTube，可以通过与谷歌无关的程序开发者推出的所谓非官方应用来获取。Windows Phone商店里塞满了各种非官方应用，不过好多都不尽如人意。YouTube的一款应用是微软开发的，相当糊弄人，只是在Windows网页浏览器里打开这家视频网站。我发现，它大体过得去，尽管速度较慢，也不具备什么iOS和Android官方应用中的精美设计。其他一些未经官方认可的应用简直一团糟。比如客房服务Airbnb，我只找到一个版本的的非官方应用，还是法语的。
This month, Charles Arthur, of the British newspaper The Guardian, published a persuasive column calling on Microsoft to throw out Windows Phone and instead create a custom — or forked — version of Android, much like Amazon has done for its Kindle Fire tablets. Microsoft’s forked Android might carry the look and feel of the current Windows Phone, but it would be optimized for Bing, Outlook, OneDrive and other Microsoft services, rather than Google’s. Because it would share Android’s guts, current Android developers might need to adjust only a few lines of code to let their apps run on Microsoft’s Android — almost instantly solving Microsoft’s app shortage. (Microsoft declined to comment on that possibility.)
英国《卫报》(The Guardian)的查尔斯·阿瑟(Charles Arthur)本月发表了一篇颇具说服力的专栏文章，呼吁微软抛弃Windows Phone，转而打造一个定制——或者说派生——版本的Android，类似亚马逊(Amazon)在Kindle Fire平板上的做法。微软的Android派生版可以带有目前的Windows Phone的外形和风格，针对Bing、Outlook和OneDrive等微软服务进行优化，而不是为谷歌的服务做优化。由于它将分享谷歌的内部架构，现有的Android开发者或许只需要改几行代码就能让应用也适用于微软的Android——几乎是立竿见影地解决了微软的应用规模问题。（微软对这种可能性拒绝置评。）
I was skeptical of the Android plan until I began using the Icon and bumped up against the phone’s shortcomings again and again — ugh, there’s no app for the ride-sharing service Uber, and, ugh, there are no plans for a Windows Phone version of the addictive trivia game QuizUp.
我本来对微软用Android的计划心存疑虑，不过，使用了Icon却反复碰到缺点之后，我的怀疑消失了。没有拼车服务Uber的应用；让人欲罢不能的小游戏QuizUp没有开发Windows Phone版本的计划。
Ben Thompson, who runs the insightful tech blog Stratechery and who also supports the plan to fork Android, argues that until Microsoft has a more robust app store, none of its other smartphone ideas are going to matter. “The problem for Microsoft and Nokia is that innovations like a great camera just aren’t enough to overcome the holes in their app store — you can’t get past the app store to even consider things like the great camera,” he said.
颇有见地的技术博客Stratechery作者本·汤普森(Ben Thompson)也支持Android派生的想法，并且认为，除非微软有了更繁荣的应用商店，其他的智能手机点子都将无足轻重。“微软和诺基亚的问题在于，超棒摄像头之类的创新并不足以克服应用商店的漏洞——你没法跳过应用商店来考虑什么超棒摄像头之类的事情，”他说。
That’s the feeling I got while using the Icon: Here’s another fantastic Nokia device that has been hamstrung by Windows Phone.
我用着Icon的时候就有同感：这是被Windows Phone拖后腿的又一款出色的诺基亚设备。