For decades, Microsoft has subsisted on the milk of its two cash cows: Windows and Office. The company’s occasional ventures into hardware generally haven’t ended well: *cough* Zune, Kin Phone, Spot Watch *cough*.
数十年来，微软(Microsoft)一直在靠它的两棵摇钱树生存：Windows操作系统和Office办公软件。该公司偶尔进军硬件领域的冒险通常都没什么好结果，比如，咳咳，媒体播放器Zune、Kin手机、Spot手表（spot是smart personal objects technology的缩写，意为智能个人设备技术——译注），咳咳。
But the new Surface Pro tablet, which goes on sale Saturday, seemed to have more going for it than any Microsoft hardware since the Xbox.
但是将于周六面市的新Surface Pro平板电脑，似乎比Xbox以后的任何微软硬件设备都更有希望。
Everybody knows what a tablet is, right? It’s a black touch-screen slab, like an iPad or an Android tablet. It doesn’t run real Windows or Mac software — it runs much simpler apps. It’s not a real computer.
每个人都知道平板电脑是什么，对吧？它是一个黑色的触摸屏平板状物体，就像iPad和Android平板电脑一样。它并不运行真正的Windows或Mac软件，只运行简单许多的应用程序。它并非真正的电脑。
But with the Surface Pro ($900 for the 64-gigabyte model, $1,000 for a 128-gig machine), Microsoft asks: Why not?
但是轮到Surface Pro（64G机型售价900美元[约合5608元人民币]，128G机型售价1000美元），微软问道：为什么不呢？
The Surface Pro looks like a tablet. It can work like a tablet. You can hold it in one hand and draw on it with the other. It even comes with a plastic stylus that works beautifully.
Surface Pro的外观很像平板电脑。它也能像平板电脑那样使用。你可以用一只手拿着它，用另一只手在上面写写画画。它还附有一支灵巧的塑料尖笔。
But inside, the Pro is a full-blown Windows PC, with the same Intel chip that powers many high-end laptops, and even two fans to keep it cool (they’re silent). As a result, the Pro can run any of the four million Windows programs, like iTunes, Photoshop, Quicken, and, of course, Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
但是从内部来看，Surface Pro确实一台配置齐全的Windows电脑，配有为很多高端笔记本电脑提供驱动的英特尔(Inter)芯片，还装有两台风扇来提供散热（声音很小）。所以，Surface Pro可以运行适用于Windows的所有400万个程序，比如iTunes、Photoshop、Quicken，当然还有Word文档、Excel电子表格和PowerPoint幻灯片。
The Surface Pro is beautiful. It’s clad in matte-black metal, beveled at the edges like a Stealth helicopter. Its connectors immediately suggest its post-iPad capabilities, like a memory-card slot for expanded storage. The screen is bright and beautiful, with 1080p high-definition resolution (1,080 by 1,820) — but when you connect the tablet to a TV or desktop monitor, it can send out an even bigger, sharper picture (2,550 by 1,440). There’s one USB 3.0 jack in the tablet, and a second ingeniously built into the power cord, so you can charge your phone as you work. Or you can connect anything you’d connect to a PC: external drives, flash drives, keyboard, mouse, speakers, cameras and so on.
Surface Pro外表美观。它外面包裹着哑光黑色金属，边缘向内倾斜，就像隐形直升机一样。它的接口清楚地表明了它超越iPad的功能，这些接口包括用于扩展容量的储存卡槽。它的屏幕鲜亮而美观，拥有1080p的高清分辨率(1080×1820)——但是如果你把它连接到电视机或台式监视器上，它就能输出更大、更清晰的图像(2550×1440)。这台平板电脑上配有一个USB 3.0的接口，另一个则被巧妙地装在了电源适配器上，所以你就能在工作的同时给手机充电了。或者，你也可以把任何可以连接到电脑上的东西连接到它上面，比如外置光驱、闪存盘、键盘、鼠标、音箱、摄像头等等。
Are you getting it? This is a PC, not an iPad.
你明白了吗？这是一台电脑，不是iPad。
As though to hammer home that point, Microsoft has endowed the Surface Pro with two unusual extras that complete the transformation from tablet to PC in about two seconds.
似乎为了强调这一点，微软为Surface Pro设置了两个不同寻常的额外功能，它能在大约两秒内，完成从平板电脑到普通电脑的转变。
First, this tablet has a kickstand. It’s a thin metal flap that disappears completely when closed, but holds the tablet at a nice angle when you’re working or watching a movie.
首先，这台平板电脑有个支架。这个薄薄的金属板合上的时候是隐形的，能在你工作或是看电影的时候，把平板电脑支撑在一个非常舒适的角度。
Second, you can buy Microsoft’s now-famous keyboard cover. There are two models, actually. One is about as thick as a piece of cardboard. You can type on it — slowly — but you’re tapping drawings of keys, not actual keys. It’s called the Touch Cover ($100 with Surface purchase).
另外，你还可以购买现在已经非常有名的微软键盘罩。现在实际上有两款。一种几乎与硬纸板一样厚。你可以在上面打字——速度很慢——但你敲打的是键位的图像，而不是真正的键。它叫做触控键盘罩（Touch Cover，购买Surface后另花100美元购买）。
The other keyboard, the Type Cover ($130) is thicker — a quarter-inch — but its keys really travel, and it has a trackpad. You can really type on this thing.
另一种键盘是稍厚的实体键盘罩（Type Cover，售价130美元），厚度约为0.25寸（约6.35毫米），但是它的键真实可动，而且还配有一个触控板。你可以真正用它打字。
Either keyboard attaches to the tablet with a powerful magnetic click. For tablet use, you can flip either keyboard around to the back; it disables itself so you don’t type gibberish by accident.
伴随磁铁贴合的响声，上述两种键盘就可以被连接到平板电脑上了。如果你想把它当作平板电脑使用，就可以把键盘翻到屏幕背后；它会自动失去输入功能，这样你就不会不小心输入一些乱七八糟的东西。
Now, when I wrote a first-look post on my blog last month, I was surprised by the reader reactions. Over and over, they posted the same argument:
上个月，我在博客中写了一篇第一印象测评文章，我对读者的反应感到吃惊。其实，他们是在反复发表一些同样的看法：
“For that money, I could buy a very nice lightweight laptop with a dedicated keyboard and much more storage. Why should I buy Surface Pro when I can have more for less?”
“用这笔钱，我能买一台非常好的轻型笔记本电脑，它将有专用的键盘和更大的储存量。既然我可以花更少的钱买到更多东西，我为什么要买Surface Pro呢？”
Why? Because the Surface Pro does things most laptops can’t do. Like it weighs two pounds, with touch screen. Or work in portrait orientation, like a clipboard. Or remain comfortable in one hand as you make medical rounds, take inventory or sketch a portrait. Or stay in a bag through airport security (the TSA says tablets are O.K. to stay in).
为什么？因为Surface Pro能做到大多数笔记本电脑无法做到的事。比如，它的重量为两磅（约0.9千克），还是触摸屏的。它可以竖着工作，就像带纸夹的笔记板。你在巡视病房、盘点存货或是作画的时候，都可以舒适地用一只手拿着它。而且，你还能把它装在包里通过机场安检（美国运输安全管理局［TSA］说平板电脑不必取出）。
So it’s true: for this much money, you could buy a very nice laptop. You could also buy a five-day cruise, a Gucci handbag or 250 gallons of milk. They just happen to be different beasts.
毫无疑问，用这么多钱，你可以购买一台非常不错的笔记本电脑。你还可以把这笔钱用来进行邮轮五日游、购买一只古驰(Gucci)手袋或是250加仑（约1138升）牛奶。只不过，它们都是完全不同的东西。
All right then: the Surface Pro is fast, flexible and astonishingly compact for what it does; that much is unassailable. But in practice, there are some disappointments and confusions.
好吧，Surface Pro运行速度快、灵活而且就其性能而言，它的简洁程度令人吃惊；这些都不容置疑。然而实际上，它还是存在一些令人失望和困惑的地方。
CONFUSION 1 The Surface Pro runs Windows 8, which is two operating systems in one. You get a tablet operating system, whose Home (Start) screen is filled with colorful tiles that represent apps and real-time information. (Since Microsoft refuses to give this environment a name, let’s go with TileWorld.)
困惑1，Surface Pro搭载Windows 8系统，该系统融合了两套操作系统。其中之一是平板操作系统，它的主页(Start)上堆满五颜六色的应用和实时信息的磁贴。（由于微软没有给这种操作环境命名，我们就称之为磁贴世界[TileWorld]吧。）
TileWorld has been jarringly stapled to the regular Windows desktop underneath it. You wind up with two Web browsers, two control panels, two Mail programs, two completely different looks.
磁贴世界一直会很不和谐地出现在普通Windows系统的桌面下方。结果你就有两个网页浏览器、两个控制面板、两个邮件程序、两种完全不同的风格。
CONFUSION 2 There are two Surface tablets. One came out a few months ago. It’s called the Surface (not Pro), it costs $500, it weighs 1.5 pounds and it’s 0.4 inches thick. It runs only TileWorld apps, which is not very compelling. If you’re going to buy a tablet that doesn’t run real software, why not just get an iPad and enjoy its library of 300,000 apps?
困惑2， Surface平板电脑有两款。一款是几个月前上市的Surface（不是Pro）。它的售价为500美元，重1.5磅，厚0.4英寸。这款平板上面只运行磁贴世界的应用，并不怎么吸引人。如果你要买一个不能运行真正软件的平板电脑，那为什么不买个iPad去享受苹果多达30万个的应用呢？
The Surface Pro is thicker and heavier (just over half an inch thick, and 2 pounds). But — glory be — it runs both TileWorld apps and all those traditional Windows programs, which makes it fantastically versatile.
相比之下，Surface Pro更厚，也更重（厚度超过半英寸、重达两磅）。但是它伟大之处在于，可以运行磁贴世界的程序以及所有常规的Windows程序，这让它变得非常灵巧实用。
Unfortunately, the confusion isn’t the only dent in this Surface. The speakers aren’t especially strong. The screen and keyboard are both slightly smaller than what you’d get on a real laptop. Attaching the power cord is a flummoxing operation.
不幸的是，这些困惑并不是这款Surface仅有的缺点。它的音箱功效不是特别强大。屏幕和键盘都比真正的笔记本略小。连接电源线的操作简直令人头痛。
You should also realize that of the base model’s 64 gigabytes of storage, only 23 are available for your use. A full 65 percent of your storage is eaten up by Windows itself. Ouch.
你应该知道，基本款的64G内存中只有23G可用。Windows系统自己就占用了整个内存的65%！哎呦。
The real heartbreaker, though, is the battery. Microsoft says the Pro will get about half the battery life of the non-Pro Surface, which would mean about 4.5 hours. I say, you’ll get 4.5 if you’re lucky; I barely got 3.5 hours from a charge.
但最让人伤心的却是电池。微软称，Surface Pro的电池续航时间只是Surface的一半，也就是约4.5小时。我想说的是，如果你能用上4.5小时，就算幸运了；我充一次电只能撑过3.5个小时。
Guess that’s why there aren’t many other two-pound, half-inch-thick laptops with Intel i5 processors.
我猜这也许就是为什么没有很多拥有Intel i5处理器，两磅重、半英寸厚的笔记本电脑的原因吧。
So in the end, the Surface Pro isn’t for everyone, it isn’t all it seemed at first, and it isn’t all it could be.
所以最归根结底，Surface Pro并不适合每个人，它完全不是一开始看上去的那样，也并未发挥所有潜力。
Even so, there’s a lot to admire in Microsoft’s accomplishment. The Surface Pro is an important idea, almost a new category, and it will be the right machine for a lot of people. You can use this thing on a restaurant table without looking obnoxious (much). You can hold it in one hand to read a Kindle book while you’re standing in line.
尽管如此，微软的成绩还是有很多值得称赞之处。Surface Pro是个重要的理念，它几乎是一种全新类别的产品，也将会是适合很多人的设备。你可以在餐馆的餐桌上使用它，而不会让人觉得讨厌（起码不会那么令人讨厌）。你可以在排队的时候用一只手拿着它阅读Kindle版的书籍。