PARIS — A German jetliner en route from Barcelona to Düsseldorf, Germany, plunged from the sky on Tuesday and slammed into the French Alps, killing all 150 people on board.
巴黎—— 一架从西班牙巴塞罗那飞往德国杜塞尔多夫的德国客机，周二在法国阿尔卑斯山区坠毁，机上150人全部遇难。
Helicopters and rescue personnel swarmed into the remote, rugged area in southeastern France after the crash but found no signs of life. Prime Minister Manuel Valls said none of the 144 passengers and six crew members survived.
坠机事件发生后，大批直升机和救援人员涌入法国东南部这片地形复杂的偏远区域，但没有发现生命迹象。法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)表示，机上的144名乘客和6名机组人员无一生还。
The authorities and executives of the airline, the budget carrier Germanwings, a subsidiary of Lufthansa, had no immediate explanation for the cause of the crash, which occurred just before 11 a.m. At a news conference Tuesday evening, Heike Birlenbach, the vice president of Lufthansa, said “at this stage, we consider this to be an accident,” adding that everything else was speculation.
这架飞机属于廉价航空公司德国之翼(Germanwings)，其母公司为汉莎航空(Lufthansa)。当局和德国之翼的高管尚无法立即给出这起坠机事件的解释。事情发生的时间为中午将近11点。在周二晚间的新闻发布会上，汉莎航空的副总裁海克·比尔伦巴赫(Heike Birlenbach)称，“在目前的阶段，我们认为这是一起意外事故，”他还说，其他的一切都还只是推测。
As night fell in the area, officials said they had recovered one of the jetliner’s black boxes: the cockpit voice recorder, which captures up to two hours of the pilots’ conversations as well as other cockpit noises, including any alarms that would have sounded as the plane descended. A few hours later, they called off the search for the evening.
在该地区夜幕降临的时候，官方表示，已经找到了这架飞机的其中一个黑匣子：驾驶仓内的语音记录仪。它会记录最长两个小时的飞行员对话，以及驾驶舱内的其他声音，包括飞机下降过程中可能响起的任何警报。几个小时后，他们结束了当晚的搜索行动。
The plane, an Airbus A320 that carried young people, vacationers and others, crashed after an eight-minute descent from 38,000 feet, the managing director of Germanwings, Thomas Winkelmann, said at a news conference.
这架空客A320飞机上的旅客包括一些年轻人和度假者。德国之翼的执行董事托马斯·温克尔曼(Thomas Winkelmann)在新闻发布会上透露，飞机从3.8万英尺（约合1.1万米）的高空开始下降，八分钟之后坠毁。
When French air traffic controllers lost contact with the plane at about 10:53 a.m., it was flying at just 6,000 feet, Mr. Winkelmann said, and it crashed shortly afterward. The terrain in that area rises to an elevation of more than 6,000 feet.
温克尔曼说，法国空管在上午10点53分左右与飞机失去联系，它当时的飞行高度仅为6000英尺，此后很快坠毁。事发地区的最高海拔在6000英尺以上。
As emergency crews combed the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department of southeastern France, Mr. Valls announced a judicial investigation into the crash. Many questions remained, including whether the pilots were in control of the aircraft during the descent and what would have caused a plane with an experienced pilot and solid safety record to crash in largely clear and cloudless weather.
紧急救援人员在法国东南部的上普罗旺斯阿尔卑斯省仔细搜寻的同时，瓦尔斯宣布对坠机事件进行司法调查。关于这起事件存在诸多疑问，包括在飞机下降过程中飞行员是否在控制飞机，以及何种原因会导致一架由经验丰富的飞行员操控、拥有稳定安全记录的飞机在基本上晴朗无云的天气里坠毁。
The passengers included Germans, Spaniards and Turks, and among them was a class of 16 German high school students and two teachers who were returning from a study program near Barcelona. Some of their parents gathered at the airport in Düsseldorf, frantically waiting for news but preparing for the worst.
乘客中有德国人、西班牙人和土耳其人，其中包括16名德国高中生和两名教师。这个班级刚刚在巴塞罗那附近结束了一个学习课程。一些学生家长聚集在杜塞多尔夫机场，焦急地等待着消息，但也在准备迎接最坏的可能性。
“This is the darkest day in the history of our city,” said Bodo Klimpel, the mayor of Haltern am See, a small city in northwestern Germany, where the 10th-grade students went to school. “The city is deeply shocked. A feeling of shock can be felt everywhere. It is about the worst thing imaginable.”
“这是我们市历史上最黑暗的一天，”德国西北部小城哈尔滕的市长博多·克林培尔(Bodo Klimpel)说。机上这些10年级学生的学校就在当地。“整座城市受到了深深的震动。到处都可以感受到人们的震惊之情。这是我们能想到的最可怕的事。”
As he spoke, people began arriving outside the Joseph König high school in the city, bearing flowers and candles.
在他发表讲话的同时，人们带着鲜花和蜡烛，陆续来到城里的约瑟夫·柯尼希高中(Joseph König)的门外。
According to Germanwings, at least 67 Germans were among the passengers, which included two infants. The airline was working to inform the affected families before releasing further information about those on board.
德国之翼表示，乘客中至少有67名德国公民，包括两名婴儿。在公布有关机上人员的更多信息之前，航空公司在全力进行通知遇难者家属的工作。
But Barcelona’s Liceu opera house said late Tuesday that two of the singers who had been performing in Wagner’s “Siegfried” were on board: the baritone Oleg Bryjak and the contralto Maria Radner. Ms. Radner was traveling with her husband and baby, according to Joan Corbera, spokesman of Barcelona’s Liceu. The two singers had spent about a month in Barcelona rehearsing and then performing.
巴塞罗那的利塞乌歌剧院(Liceu)周二晚间称，两名参演了瓦格纳的《齐格弗里德》(Siegfried)的演员在这架飞机上。他们分别是男中音奥列格·巴莱亚克(Oleg Bryjak)和女低音玛利亚·拉德纳(Maria Radner)。利塞乌的发言人胡安娜·科尔韦拉(Joan Corbera)透露，与拉德纳一同出行的还有她的丈夫及襁褓中的孩子。这两名歌唱家此前花了一个月左右的时间在巴塞罗那彩排和演出。
Two employees of Delphi, an American automotive company, and at least one employee of Bayer, a German chemical company, were also among the passengers, according to Spanish media reports.
据西班牙媒体报道，机上还有美国汽车公司德尔福(Delphi)的两名员工，以及德国化工公司拜耳(Bayer)的至少一名雇员。
At El Prat Airport outside of Barcelona, dozens of relatives were kept in a waiting area, attended to by psychologists and protected by the police.
在巴塞罗那郊外的埃尔普拉特机场，数十名家属被安置在了一个等候区。他们得到了心理专家的照顾，以及警方的保护。
The aircraft took off from Barcelona at 10:01 a.m. No distress call was received from the plane, and the pilots lost radio contact with their control center, according to the aviation authority in France.
这架客机是上午10点零1分从巴塞罗那起飞的。法国的航空部门称，没有收到飞机发出的求救信号，飞行员即失去了与控制中心的无线电联系。
Evelyne Bayle, who lives in Le Vernet, France, said she heard the engines, but the sounds did not suggest that the plane had gone into free fall. “I was in my veranda and I heard the plane flying down, the engines were making a lot of noise,” she said. “The noise that we were hearing was really progressive.”
法国勒韦尔内的居民埃弗利娜 ·贝尔(Evelyne Bayle)表示，她听到了引擎的声音，但听起来并不像是飞机在做自由落体运动。“我当时在自家阳台，听到了飞机向下飞的声音，引擎发出了很大的噪音，”她说。“我们听到的噪音的确是越来越大。”
The leaders of France, Spain and Germany made public addresses to offer comfort and reassurances that the crash would be thoroughly investigated. The National Assembly in France observed a minute of silence.
法国、西班牙和德国的领导人均公开发表了演讲，在安抚民众的同时，保证将对此次坠机事件进行彻底调查。法国的国民议会为遇难者默哀了一分钟。
President François Hollande of France, standing with King Felipe VI of Spain, who was in Paris for a state visit, warned that access to the crash site would be very difficult. The Interior Ministry in France said that more than 400 police officers and rescue personnel had been sent to the area. Mr. Hollande said that many of the people on board were German and that none were believed to be French.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)与正在巴黎进行国事访问的西班牙国王费利佩六世(King Felipe VI)并肩而立，提醒大家进入坠机现场的道路十分艰难。法国内政部称，已向该地区派去了400多名警察和救援人员。奥朗德表示，机上有很多德国人，但据信没有法国人。
“We must feel grief, because this is a tragedy that happened on our soil,” Mr. Hollande said.
“我们定会感到悲痛，因为这是发生我们国土上的悲剧，”奥朗德说 。
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who was flown over the crash scene on Tuesday, said the site was “a picture of horror.”
周二乘机视察坠机现场的德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)称，那里是“一片凄惨的景象”。
Wreckage was located by a French military helicopter near the town of Prads-Haute-Bléone, according to Eric Héraud, a spokesman in Paris for the aviation authority, the Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile.
据法国民航局(Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile)发言人埃里克·黑拉德(Eric Héraud)在巴黎介绍，法国军方的一架直升机飞机在布莱奥讷河畔普拉(Prads-Haute-Bléone)这座小镇附近找到了飞机残骸。 
A French official with direct knowledge of the investigation said the search was continuing for the second black box, the flight data recorder, which tracks roughly 1,300 statistics, including the plane’s position, speed, altitude and direction.
一名直接知晓调查情况的法国官员称，对第二个黑匣子——飞行数据记录仪——的搜寻工作仍在继续。该记录仪会追踪大约1300项数据，包括飞机的位置、速度、高度和方向。
Aviation safety experts said a descent of eight minutes from cruising altitude was slower than the three to four minutes that would normally be expected in the case of a sudden midair upset such as an aerodynamic stall, suggesting that the pilots may have been trying to maintain control of the plane as it lost altitude.
航空安全专家称，飞机在空中突然出现意外，如失去动力的情况下，通常会在三到四分钟时间里从巡航高度上坠落到地表，但相比之下，失事飞机坠落得要慢一些，用了八分钟，表明在其失去高度的过程中，飞行员可能一直在尝试保持对飞机的控制。
"While investigators still need to verify the data are correct, eight minutes is definitely longer compared with the experience we have had in past cases,” said Olivier Ferrante, a former crash investigator for the French Bureau of Investigations and Analyses who is now an adviser on aviation safety for the European Commission in Brussels.
“尽管调查人员仍需核实数据是否准确，但八分钟明显比我们在以往案例中遇到的情况要长，”曾在法国调查与分析局(French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)担任坠机调查员的奥利维·费兰特(Olivier Ferrante)说。他目前在布鲁塞尔的欧盟委员会担任航空安全顾问。
In the case of the 2009 crash of an Air France flight over the Atlantic Ocean, the plane, an Airbus A330, took just three and a half minutes to fall from 38,000 feet to the surface of the ocean, Mr. Ferrante noted.
费兰特指出，在2009年法国航空(Air France)一架客机在大西洋上空坠毁的事件中，那架空客A330从3.8万英尺的高空坠落至海面仅用了三分半钟。
The crash zone of the Germanwings accident was significantly higher, meaning that the plane would have had an even shorter vertical distance to travel before impact.
德国之翼这起事故的坠机区域海拔要高出不少。这意味着，在触地前，飞机的垂直下落距离本应该更短。
With regard to the images of the debris field, Mr. Ferrante said the small size of the pieces suggested the plane hit the ground at a very high speed. He cautioned that it was too early to speculate about the cause of the crash.
谈到残骸散布区域的图片时，费兰特表示，碎片较小表明飞机撞击地面时速度非常快。不过他告诫，推测坠机原因还为时尚早。
Frédéric Atger, a spokesman for Météo France, which monitors weather across the country, said that the conditions had been “particularly calm” in the area. “The visibility was good, and there were little clouds at low altitudes,” he said.
监测全国天气状况的法国气象局(Météo France)发言人弗雷德里克·阿特热(Frédéric Atger)表示，事发时该地区的天气情况一直“特别平静”。“能见度良好，低空几乎无云，”他说。
Bruno Lambert, a mountain guide who lives in Chanolles, a hamlet in the Prads-Haute-Bléone municipality, said the area of the crash was sparsely populated with steep mountain terrain.
生活在布莱奥讷河畔普拉下辖的小村庄沙诺勒(Chanolles)的登山导游布鲁诺·朗贝尔(Bruno Lambert)说，坠机地区人口稀疏，分布着陡峭的山岭。
The type of aircraft that crashed, an Airbus A320 single-aisle jet, is a workhorse of many airline fleets, with more than 5,600 in service around the world. The aircraft’s safety record has been very good, but not spotless. Since entering into service in 1988, A320 aircraft have been involved in 12 fatal accidents, according to Ascend, a London-based aviation consulting firm.
失事飞机是一架空客A320单通道喷气式飞机。该机型是很多航空公司机群的中坚力量，世界范围内在使用中的超过5600架。它的安全记录一直非常出色，但也并非毫无瑕疵。跟据总部位于伦敦的航空咨询公司航升(Ascend)提供的数据，自1988年投入使用以来，有12起造成人员伤亡的事故涉及A320。
In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed her deep sympathy for the families of the victims, saying that the crash was a “terrible shock.”
在德国，总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)表达了对遇难者家属的深切同情，将这起坠机事件称为一记“沉重的打击”。
“I feel terribly sorry, because so many people died in this disaster,” she said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with these people.” Ms. Merkel said she would fly to southern France on Wednesday to meet with the authorities there.
“我感到非常遗憾，因为有这么多人在这场灾难中丧生，”她说。“我们对他们寄予哀思。”默克尔表示自己将于周三飞赴法国南部，与那里的负责部门会面。
Germanwings, based in Cologne, was founded in 2002 and acquired by Lufthansa in 2009. It has since grown to become Lufthansa’s main operator for domestic and short-distance European flights from cities other than the main hubs of Munich and Frankfurt. It has a fleet of around 81 planes, of which about two-thirds are Airbus A320s and A319s.
总部位于克隆的德国之翼成立于2002年，并于2009年被汉莎航空收购。自那时起，德国之翼已经发展成了汉莎航空旗下负责从除慕尼黑和法兰克福这两个主要枢纽之外的城市起降的国内航班及短程欧洲航班的主要承运方。该公司的机群由大约81架飞机组成，其中大约三分之二是空客的A320和A319。
At the Düsseldorf airport Tuesday afternoon, a small crowd of people stood around a television set at a cafe in the departure area and watched Germanwings officials give a news conference about the crash. The viewers’ expressions were somber and they talked quietly among themselves.
周二下午，在杜塞尔多夫机场出发区的一家咖啡馆里，一小群人站在电视机周围，观看德国之翼的官员在新闻发布会上介绍这起坠机事件的情况。这些观众表情沮丧，相互低声讨论着。
Among them were Patrick Huber, 25, and Helena Henkel, 26, who wore backpacks and said they were on their way to Barcelona for an 11-day vacation on the Spanish coast. “On Germanwings,” Mr. Huber said, with a nervous laugh. But he said they would fly anyway. “Still,” Ms. Henkel added, “I’ll be happy when we land.”
他们当中，有25岁的帕特里克·胡贝尔(Patrick Huber)和26岁的海伦娜·亨克尔(Helena Henkel)。他们是背包客，正在去巴塞罗那的路上，准备在西班牙的海边度过11天的假期。“是德国之翼的航班，”胡贝尔紧张地笑着说。但他表示，不管怎样他们还是要坐飞机。“然而，”亨克尔接过话头，“落地时我会很开心的。”