BERLIN — After an avalanche of criticism at home and abroad, the German government announced late Monday it will establish a task force to investigate, “as quickly and as transparently as possible,” the provenance of a cache of more than 1,400 artworks that are suspected of being traded or looted during the Nazis’ reign and that are now in the hands of authorities in Bavaria.
柏林——在国内外遭受大量批评之后，德国政府周一晚些时候宣布将成立一个专案组，“尽可能迅速和透明”地调查巴伐利亚当局现在掌握的逾1400件画作，人们怀疑这批画作在纳粹统治期间易手或遭受劫掠。
In a statement, the government said it planned immediately to post 25 works on the website www.lostart.de, the government-funded database for works missing since World War II. Others will be posted as their provenances are documented, it said.
德国政府在一份声明中表示，它计划立即在数据库网站www.lostart.de上发布25件作品的信息。这个网站由政府出资建立，专门记录自二战以来失踪的艺术品。其他作品也将在登记来源之后发布在该网站上。
According to prosecutors in the Bavarian city of Augsburg, who have so far been solely responsible for dealing with the works, some 380 are believed to have been legally taken from museums by the Nazis under the “degenerate art” law of 1938. The ownership histories of another 590 works must be examined to determine whether they were acquired from Jewish owners under duress.
迄今为止，这些作品一直由巴伐利亚州奥格斯堡市的检察官全权负责处理。他们表示，约有380件作品应该是依据1938年的“堕落艺术”法，被纳粹从博物馆合法取走的。另外590件作品的经手记录必须加以核查，以确定它们是否是从犹太所有者那里巧取豪夺的。
The task force will consist of at least six provenance experts, as well as representatives from various ministries, the statement said.
专案组将至少包含6名来源鉴定专家，以及来自各政府部门的代表，该声明说。
The German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, had earlier expressed concern that reluctance to publicize the contents of this art find could damage the international “trust that we have built over many decades” after World War II.
德国外长吉多·韦斯特韦勒(Guido Westerwelle)早前曾对此事表示了关注，他说，如果不愿意公开这批画作的内容，可能会有损“我们自二战之后几十年来逐渐获得的国际信任”。
The statement did not offer information about when and how looted paintings might actually be returned to former owners.
该声明没有提及，何时以及如何将劫掠的画作物归原主。
That is precisely what people like David Toren want to know.
而这正是大卫·托伦(David Toren)等人想了解的。
Mr. Toren last remembers seeing Max Liebermann’s “Riders on the Beach,” already known to be among this 1,400-work hoard, on the wall of his great-uncle’s villa in Breslau, then part of Germany. Mr. Toren was 13 and the war that would soon engulf the continent was less than a year away.
已知的信息显示，这1400多件画作中有一幅马克斯·利伯曼(Max Liebermann)的《沙滩上的骑马者》(Two Riders on a Beach)，托伦记得最后一次看到它是在叔公位于布雷斯劳的别墅的墙上，当时布雷斯劳属于德国领土。托伦那时13岁，之后不到一年，那场席卷欧洲大陆的战争就爆发了。
Mr. Toren’s lawyers recognized the work when it was made public last week along with a handful of others from the $1.4 billion stash, which Bavarian officials confiscated from the Munich home of Cornelius Gurlitt in February 2012 as part of a tax investigation. Mr. Gurlitt’s father, Hildebrand Gurlitt, was one of four art dealers authorized by the Nazis to trade in art during the war.
2012年2月，巴伐利亚官员在进行税务调查时，从廓尼琉斯·古尔利特(Cornelius Gurlitt)在慕尼黑的家中没收了一批藏匿品，上周，当这批价值14亿美元的藏匿品被公之于众时，托伦的律师认出了《沙滩上的骑马者》。古尔利特的父亲希尔德布兰特·古尔利特(Hildebrand Gurlitt)是二战期间获得纳粹授权可以交易画作的四名艺术交易商之一。
Mr. Toren, 88, won’t be able to see the actual painting. He is blind. But he said that he is determined to recover the picture and other works that once belonged to his family. “I am going to make it my business to get those paintings back,” Mr. Toren said, referring to “Riders” and others he and his lawyers believe might be part of the trove.
现年88岁的托伦无法再亲眼看到这幅画了。他已经双目失明。但是他说，他决心索回这幅画和曾经属于他家族的其他藏画。托伦说：“我会把索回这些画当作自己的使命，”他指的是《沙滩上的骑马者》以及他和律师认为的这批宝藏中可能属于他家族的其他作品。
Mr. Toren, who lives in New York, said he has a letter, dated December 1939, three months after World War II started, showing that government authorities in Breslau had inventoried the art collection — including “Riders on the Beach” — and other valuables like porcelain, pottery, rugs and furniture owned by David Friedmann, his great-uncle, a Jewish industrialist there. The letter mentions a number of Impressionist paintings, including works by Rousseau, Camille Pisarro and Liebermann, and noted that Mr. Friedmann had been warned not to dispose of any of the art.
托伦目前住在纽约，他说自己有一封日期署为1939年12月的信，称在二战爆发三个月时，布雷斯劳政府当局已经列出了一份属于他叔公、犹太实业家大卫·弗里德曼(David Friedmann)的物品清单，其中有《沙滩上的骑马者》等藏画，还有瓷器、陶器、地毯和家具等其他贵重物品。这封信中不仅提及了大量印象派画作，比如卢梭(Rousseau)、卡米尔·毕沙罗(Camille Pisarro)和利伯曼的作品，而且指出，当局警告弗里德曼不要处置任何画作。
Jörg Rosbach, Mr. Toren’s lawyer in Germany, said he was stunned last Tuesday to see on television the painting he had long sought on behalf of his client. He said he had twice tried to contact state prosecutors in the Bavarian town of Augsburg who have responsibility for the case and had also tried to reach the archive in Magdeburg, in eastern Germany, that contains the government catalogs of stolen or missing art seized under the Nazis, but received no response.
托伦在德国的律师约尔格·罗斯巴赫(Jörg Rosbach)说，上周二，当他在电视上看到自己受客户委托长期寻找的画作时，他惊呆了。他表示，他曾两度试图联系巴伐利亚州奥格斯堡市负责这个案件的检查官，还试图联系德国东部马格德堡的档案部门，因为那里有纳粹统治期间被盗或丢失画作的官方目录，但一直没有收到任何回音。
Mr. Toren said his great-uncle died peacefully at the age of 86 before the war swept through Breslau — now part of Poland and called Wroclaw — but said that his great-uncle’s daughter, Lotte, committed suicide after being detained by the Nazis. Mr. Friedmann had owned four estates totaling 10,000 acres, Mr. Toren said, in addition to the Breslau villa. Mr. Toren said he himself escaped to Sweden as part of a kindertransport, a rescue mission for children, before the war started. He made his way to Israel after the war and is now a retired lawyer living in Manhattan. His older brother, who has dementia, lives in London, he said.
托伦说，他的叔公在86岁时安详去世，当时战争尚未席卷布雷斯劳——它现在属于波兰，名为弗罗茨瓦夫——但他说，他叔公的女儿洛蒂(Lotte)在被纳粹关押后自杀了。托伦说，除了布雷斯劳别墅之外，弗里德曼还拥有总计1万英亩的四处地产，托伦本人则在儿童救援项目kindertransport的帮助下，于战争爆发前逃亡到了瑞典。战争结束后，他辗转去了以色列，现在是一名退休律师，住在曼哈顿。他的哥哥患有老年痴呆症，目前住在伦敦，他说。
Mr. Toren’s situation is similar to that of other survivors and heirs who had their family’s possessions confiscated or stolen by the Third Reich or its agents and who are now wondering what to do next. “I don’t know where to put the claim,” Mr. Toren said.
托伦的情况，跟家族财产被第三帝国或其代理人没收或者盗取的战争幸存者以及财产继承人大同小异，他们现在想知道的是下一步该怎么做。“我不知道该向哪儿递交申请，来索还这些财产，”托伦说。