HAMBURG, Germany — Europe is living through a new wave of anti-Semitism. The president of Germany’s Central Council of Jews calls it the worst the Continent has seen since World War II. He may well be right. Attacks on synagogues are an almost weekly occurrence, and openly anti-Semitic chants are commonplace on well-attended marches from London to Rome. And yet it is here, in Germany, where the rise in anti-Semitism is most historically painful.
德国汉堡——欧洲正在经历一波新的反犹浪潮。德国犹太人中央委员会(Central Council of Jews)的主席称，这是二战以来欧洲大陆上最严重的一波反犹浪潮。事实可能正是这样。对犹太教堂的攻击几乎每周都在发生，而且从伦敦到罗马，很多人参加的游行中公开高喊反犹口号，已经成为一种常态。然而在德国，这波反犹太浪潮的兴起有着最令人痛心的历史渊源。
On Sunday, thousands of people marched through Berlin in response, and heard both Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Joachim Gauck denounce the resurgence in anti-Jewish hatred.
上周日，数千人在柏林游行，抗议反犹言行。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和总统约阿希姆·高克(Joachim Gauck)也发表讲话，对反犹仇恨的死灰复燃表达了谴责。
We’ve seen this before, of course. But there’s an important difference this time. The new anti-Semitism does not originate solely with the typical white-supremacist neo-Nazi; instead, the ugly truth that many in Europe don’t want to confront is that much of the anti-Jewish animus originates with European people of Muslim background.
当然，我们过去就见到过这样的事情。但这次的情况非常不同。这一波新的反犹浪潮，不仅仅来自典型的、信奉白人至上主义的新纳粹；有大量反犹敌意，来自有穆斯林背景的欧洲人，这是很多欧洲人都不愿面对的一个丑陋真相。
Until recently, Germany has been unwilling to discuss this trend. Germans have always seen Muslim anti-Semitism as a less problematic version of the “original” version, and therefore a distraction from the well-known problem of anti-Jewish sentiment within a majority of society.
不久前，德国甚至不愿意谈论这一趋势。德国人一直认为，穆斯林的反犹主义与“原本”的反犹主义相比，问题并没有那么严重，会转移公众对主流社会中反犹情绪的注意力，而后者是一个广为人知的问题。
And yet the German police have noted a disturbing rise in the number of people of Arabic and Turkish descent arrested on suspicion of anti-Semitic acts in recent years, especially over the last several months. After noticing an alarming uptick in anti-Semitic sentiment among immigrant students, the German government is considering a special fund for Holocaust education.
然而，德国警方已经注意到一个令人不安的趋势：近年来，因涉嫌反犹举动而被逮捕的阿拉伯裔和土耳其裔德国人有所增加，在过去数月中，这种情况尤为严重。德国政府发现，移民学生中反犹情绪高涨，态势令人担忧，因此正在考虑拨出专项资金，用于犹太人大屠杀方面的教育。
Of course, anti-Semitism didn’t originate with Europe’s Muslims, nor are they its only proponents today. The traditional anti-Semitism of Europe’s far right persists. So, too, does that of the far left, as a negative byproduct of sympathy for the Palestinian liberation struggle. There’s also an anti-Semitism of the center, a subcategory of the sort of casual anti-Americanism and anticapitalism that many otherwise moderate Europeans espouse.
当然，欧洲的穆斯林既不是反犹太主义的始作俑者，也不是当前唯一的支持者。欧洲极右势力一向反犹，现在仍然如此。而由于同情巴勒斯坦解放斗争，极左势力也附带地产生了反犹立场。其他很多中间派欧洲人持有温和的反美、反资本主义心态，他们中的一部分形成了另外一支反犹力量。
But the rise of Muslim anti-Semitism is responsible for the recent change in the tone of hate in Germany. Until recently, the country’s anti-Semitism has been largely coded and anonymous. Messages might be spray-painted on walls at night; during the day, though, it would be rare to hear someone shout, as protesters did in Berlin in July, “Jews to the gas!” Another popular slogan at this and other rallies was “Jew, coward pig, come out and fight alone!” — shouted just yards from Berlin’s main Holocaust memorial. And this is the difference today: An anti-Semitism that is not only passionate, but also unaware of, or indifferent to, Germany’s special history.
但穆斯林反犹主义的兴起，才是德国的仇恨情绪近期出现变化的原因。直到不久前，德国的反犹言行基本上还是间接的、匿名的。晚上，可能会有人把反犹言论喷涂在墙壁上；但在白天，极少听到有人会大声说出来，但是今年7月，抗议者们在柏林高喊“把犹太人送进毒气室！”这类集会上还有另一个常见口号：“胆小的犹太猪，出来单挑！”——游行者就在与柏林的大屠杀纪念馆相距咫尺的地方高喊这些口号。这就是如今的不同之处：反犹言行不仅充满激情，而且也忽视了，或者是无视了德国特殊的历史。
Talking to Muslim friends, I can’t help but believe that the audacity of today’s anti-Semitism is in part a result of the exploitation of a “victim status,” an underdog sentiment that too many European Muslims have embraced enthusiastically. This is not just the sort of social-science explanation we often hear for hatred, as racism from people who are themselves the victims of racism and discrimination.
在和穆斯林朋友交谈时，我不由得相信，如今毫不避忌的反犹言行，部分上是对“受害者地位”加以利用的结果，那是欧洲很多穆斯林积极接受的一种失败者情绪。这不仅仅是我们经常听到的那种社会科学解释：一些人自身是种族主义和歧视的受害者，他们也针对别人表现出了仇恨和种族主义。
Yes, there is discrimination against and exclusion of Muslims in Europe, and many of them certainly have reason to be frustrated. But this sentiment is more complex, born not only from how someone feels about himself and his neighbors, but about himself and his country. It is twofold: Germany’s history is not my history. And: I’ll never fully belong to your nation anyway, so why should I take on its burdens as you do?
不错，欧洲的穆斯林遭到了一些歧视和排斥，很多人感到失落也情有可原。但是，这种情绪更复杂，它不仅源自个人对于自己和邻居的感觉，也源自他对自己和国家之间的感觉。这具有双重的意义：德国的历史并不是我的历史。以及：反正我永远不会完全属于你们国家，我为什么要背上和你一样的负担？
One friend, whose parents are from Turkey, told me that when she learned about the Holocaust at her German school, she wondered what all that had to do with her biography. As someone born in 1973, though with blond hair, I could ask the same question.
一个父母来自土耳其的朋友告诉我，当她在德语学校听到大屠杀的历史时，她有些困惑，这一切和她的个人经历有什么关系。我出生于1973年，虽然有金色头发，但也可以提出同样的问题。
The point is, it’s not about personal involvement; it is not in our blood, but it is in our history, in the timeline of a place that migrants have become part of. For Germans, accepting responsibility for the Holocaust has to mean feeling ultimately and more than any other nations’ citizens responsible for keeping the memory of its horrors alive — simply because those crimes were ordered from our soil.
问题的关键是，它无关个人的参与；它不在我们的血液中，但它在我们的历史中，它就在这个地方的时间脉络里，而移民已经成了这个地方的一部分。于德国人而言，对大屠杀承担起责任，必然意味着在内心深处感到：与其他任何国家的公民相比，自己对大屠杀恐怖记忆的传承都负有更大责任——因为铸成这些罪行的命令，是在我们的国土上发布的。
Nothing more, but also nothing less has to be expected from every citizen of this country, no matter where her or his parents are from.
德国公民受到的期待不过如此，或者说至少如此，无论你父母来自哪里。