BERLIN — The German government on Thursday demanded the removal of the top American spy in the country, the strongest evidence yet that mounting revelations about widespread American intelligence operations in Germany have gravely damaged relations between once close allies.
柏林——本周四，德国政府要求美国驻德国情报机构的最高负责人离境。这是迄今为止最确凿的迹象，表明遭频频曝光的美国在德国境内展开广泛情报活动一事，已严重伤害到这对昔日的亲密盟友之间的关系。
The decision by Chancellor Angela Merkel to publicly announce the expulsion of the Central Intelligence Agency’s Berlin station chief was seen as a highly symbolic expression of the deep anger and hurt that German officials have felt since the exposure of the American espionage operations.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)决定公开宣布，驱逐美国中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA)驻柏林站的站长。外界把这个决定视为一种高度象征性的表态，显示了德国官员自美国间谍活动曝光后感受到的极度愤怒和深层伤害。
It is likely to force another reassessment inside the C.I.A. and other spy agencies about whether provocative espionage operations in friendly nations are worth the risk to broader foreign policy goals. One such assessment was conducted last summer, when President Obama ordered a halt to the tapping of Ms. Merkel’s phone after it came to light because of former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden.
此举可能会迫使CIA等情报机构再次调整内部评估，以判断是否值得冒着宏观外交政策目标的风险在友邦进行挑衅性的间谍活动。去年9月，美国情报机构曾实施过此类评估，当时，国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光了美方在窃听默克尔的手机，奥巴马随后下令停止了这一行为。
Current and former American officials said that the Berlin station chief, who works undercover, has been in the position for about a year. It was his predecessor in the job, the officials said, who oversaw the recruitment of the German intelligence officer arrested last week who has reportedly told his interrogators he was spying for the C.I.A., touching off a storm of criticism of the United States. German investigators are also looking at a second case of an official inside the Defense Ministry who may have been working for the Americans.
现任和前任美国官员表示，隐瞒身份活动的CIA驻柏林站的站长在目前的职位上干了大约一年时间，是他的前任负责招募了上周被拘捕的一名德国情报人员。据报道，此人对审讯人员说，他在为CIA刺探情报。此事的曝光导致美国受到了暴风雨般的指责。德国调查人员还在查看第二起案件，据称该国国防部的一名官员可能一直在为美国人工作。
The expulsion of a C.I.A. station chief — the ranking American intelligence officer in a foreign country — was a staple of the Cold War, but it is a move almost never made by allies. “It’s one thing to kick lower level officers out, it’s another thing to kick the chief of station out,” said one former C.I.A. officer with extensive experience working on European operations.
CIA的站长是美国在境外国家职位最高的情报官员。驱逐站长是冷战时期的惯用招数，可是几乎从来没有被盟国动用过。“把较低级别的官员驱逐出去是一回事，把站长驱逐出去可就是另一回事了。”有大量欧洲行动经验的一名CIA前情报员说道。
The closest precedent may be an episode in 1995, when the C.I.A. station chief in Paris, his deputy and two other agency officers were expelled for trying to pay French officials for intelligence on France’s negotiating position in trade talks. But Thursday’s move is potentially more significant, since the intelligence cooperation between the United States and German has historically been far closer than that with the French.
最接近的先例也许是1995年的一起事件。当时，CIA驻巴黎站站长、副站长和其他两名情报人员因为试图贿赂法国官员套取该国在贸易谈判中的立场而遭到驱逐。然而，本周四的行动可能带有更重大的意义，因为美德之间的情报合作历史上一直比美法之间更为密切。
The former official said that the move could be just the first sign that the Germans intend to escalate the monitoring of C.I.A. operatives in the country — possibly increasing surveillance activities like phone tapping and tailing American spies in cars. It is extremely unlikely that Germany would ever become as hostile a location for American spies as Russia — where the term “Moscow Rules” was coined to indicate the strict procedures used by undercover officers to meet sources and elude surveillance. Still, it could fall into a middle category of countries — Turkey, India and France among them — that are allies but are considered difficult operating environments for American spies.
前述情报员认为，此举也许只是德国人意图加强对CIA驻德情报人员的监控的首个迹象——也许他们会增加对美国间谍的监控，比如窃听电话，开车跟踪。极不可能的是，德国会变成像俄罗斯那样，对美国间谍采取非常敌对的态度。俄罗斯是诞生“莫斯科规则”(Moscow Rules)的地方。这个词代表着秘密行动人员在与线人会面、躲避监视时需要遵循的严格程序。不过，德国可能会降至土耳其、印度及法国等中等难度国家的行列。它们都是美国的盟友，但美国间谍难以在其境内开展行动。
Despite the apparent effort to keep relations on an even keel, the development marked a low point in relations with a critical ally just as Mr. Obama needed stronger cooperation on issues from dealing with Iran’s nuclear program to bringing stability to Ukraine to forging a broad trans-Atlantic trade agreement.
尽管明显想要保持稳固的关系，但目前的情况标志着美国与德国这个重要盟友的关系陷入低谷，而此时此刻，奥巴马需要在应对伊朗核计划、恢复乌克兰稳定，以及达成广泛的跨大西洋贸易协定等各种议题上加强与盟友的合作。
As Ms. Merkel put it on Thursday, the two countries have better things to do than “waste energy spying” on each other.
就像默克尔在周四说的那样，与“浪费精力监控”彼此相比，德美两国有更重要的事情要做。
Ms. Merkel’s comments seemed similar to what Mr. Obama said early last summer, after the first of the Snowden revelations. “I’m the end user of this kind of intelligence,” Obama said. “If I want to know what Chancellor Merkel is thinking, I will call Chancellor Merkel,” he said, suggesting it was not necessary to spy on close friends.
默克尔的评论听上去与奥巴马在去年夏初的论调相似。当时，斯诺登披露了第一批信息。“我是这类情报的终端用户，”奥巴马表示，“如果我想知道默克尔总理的想法，我会给默克尔总理打电话。”他以此暗示，美国没必要对亲密的朋友进行监控。
But in the year since, the evidence of American spying operations in Germany has grown so steadily that it called into question whether the intelligence agencies listened to the president that day, or whether the White House had failed to do a complete review of the spying operations against those allies.
但在接下来的一年里，有层出不穷的证据证明，美国在德国开展了间谍活动。这引发了不少质疑：情报机构那时候是否听从了总统当时的命令？白宫是不是没能全面审核针对盟友的间谍活动？
German officials have made it clear that their anger ran deeper than during the recent episodes. There is great frustration in Berlin that the Obama administration has not provided more information about a range of American surveillance activities in Germany — including the tapping of Ms. Merkel’s cellphone.
德国官员明确表示，他们的愤怒不仅源于当前的事件。德国感到非常失望，奥巴马政府没有提供有关美国在德国的一系列监控活动的更多信息，比如监听默克尔手机的行动。
German government spokesman Steffen Seibert said on Thursday that the decision to expel the C.I.A. station chief “was made against the backdrop of the ongoing investigations” into American spying activities “as well as the questions pending for months about the activities of the U.S. intelligence services in Germany.”
周四，德国政府发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)表示，德国决定驱逐CIA站长的“背景是正在”对美国间谍活动“进行调查”，以及“有关美国情报机构在德活动的问题几个月来悬而未决”。