香港——跨国律师事务所德同(Dentons)在周二宣布将与中国大成律师事务所合并，组成世界上律师数量最多的律所。
The new firm, to be branded Dacheng Dentons, will have more than 6,500 lawyers in more than 50 countries, overtaking Baker & McKenzie, with nearly 4,300 lawyers, as the world’s biggest.
被命名为大成德同的新律所将在全球50多个国家拥有逾6500名律师，取代目前世界最大律所贝克·麦坚时(Baker & McKenzie)的地位，后者拥有将近4300名律师。
The merger comes amid a global wave of consolidation in the legal industry. At the same time, China’s growing economic heft and the increasing number of deals being made overseas by its companies have created huge demand for legal services, both at home and abroad.
在两大律所达成合并协议之际，律师行业正掀起全球合并的浪潮。与此同时，中国的经济势力不断增强，中国公司的海外交易日益增加，产生了对国内外法律服务的巨大需求。
“It’s no longer Beijing and Shanghai that form the core of the economic engine — it’s dozens of cities across China that have experienced dramatic growth,” Elliott Portnoy, chief executive of Dentons and of the newly combined firm, said in an interview.
德同及新律所首席执行官埃利奥特·波特努瓦(Elliott Portnoy)接受采访时表示，“经济引擎的核心不再只是北京和上海，中国的数十个城市发展迅猛。”
Foreign law firms and lawyers are forbidden from practicing domestically in China and can give advice on overseas law only. In matters of Chinese law, they must retain local Chinese firms, for example to work on regulatory permissions for a corporate takeover in China or to represent a foreign client in a domestic court case.
外国律所及律师被禁止在中国国内开展业务，只能提供有关外国法律的建议，比如处理收购中国公司的监管许可问题，或为外国委托人代理中国国内的诉讼案件。
As a result, most foreign law firms keep only a small number of foreign lawyers in China and open offices in only the biggest cities. Dentons, for instance, has about 45 lawyers across Asia, out of its total of 2,600 lawyers globally, with more in the United States than in any other country. Dacheng has more than 4,000 lawyers, almost all of them in China.
因此，大多数外国律所在中国只有几名外国律师，而且只在大城市开设办事处。例如，德同在亚洲共有大约45名律师，而它在全球有2600名律师，其中美国的律师数量多于其他国家。大成拥有逾4000名律师，几乎所有律师都在中国。
Because of these restrictions on foreign firms, profitability can be a challenge in China.
外国律所受到限制，在中国盈利会是一个挑战。
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, a firm founded in New York with offices around the world, said this month that it was effectively pulling out of Asia. The firm decided to close down its unprofitable offices in Hong Kong and Shanghai after failing to win sufficient local business from the big Wall Street banks it works with in other markets, The American Lawyer magazine reported.
总部设在纽约的法朗克律师事务所(Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson)在世界各地都设有办事处，该律所在本月表示，他们实际上正在撤出亚洲市场。《美国律师》(American Lawyer)杂志报道称，该律所已经决定关闭无利可图的香港和上海办事处，因为虽然与多家华尔街大银行在其他市场都有合作，他们还是无法通过这些银行，在香港和上海获得足够多的业务。
Dentons is betting that the scale of its newly combined operations and the penetration into China of Dacheng, which has more than 40 offices across the mainland, will help it win new work from foreign companies doing business in China, and especially from fast-growing Chinese companies seeking to expand overseas.
德同确信，合并后的经营规模，以及大成在中国的广泛分布——它在大陆各地拥有40多个办事处——应该能帮助它从在中国做生意的外国企业获得新业务，寻求海外扩张的那些快速成长的中国公司就更是这样。
“The personal relationships they have with the C.E.O.s of private companies and big, state-owned enterprises is obviously something that creates a tremendous opportunity for us, with all that work that is now coming out into the West,” said Joe Andrew, the chairman of Dentons.
德同董事会主席乔·安德鲁(Joe Andrew)说，“他们与私营企业，以及大型国有企业首席执行官的私人关系，以及目前走出中国、进入西方的所有业务，明显会为我们创造大量机会。”
Recently released figures illustrate this trend. Foreign direct investment in China slowed last year, rising 1.7 percent, to $119.6 billion, from 2013, according to data released this month by the Ministry of Commerce. By contrast, outward investment from China surged 14.1 percent, to $102.9 billion.
最近公布的数据说明了这一趋势。根据商务部本月公布的数据，去年，中国的外来直接投资增速放缓，与2013年相比上涨了1.7％，达到1196亿美元（约合7467亿元人民币）。相比之下，中国的对外投资激增14.1％，达到1029亿美元。