BERLIN — If memory needs places, Berlin was the place this weekend to remember the horror of the Berlin Wall, and the joy of unexpected liberation that accompanied its fall 25 years ago Sunday.
柏林——如果说记忆需要场所来寄托，那么要回忆柏林墙挺立时的恐怖，以及25年前它倒塌时意外降临的自由带来的欣喜，最好的地点就是周末期间的柏林。
With her customary decorum, Chancellor Angela Merkel led her country in celebrations flavored with the only-in-Germany mix of triumph and tragedy.
德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)带着惯常的沉稳风格，带领全国举行了庆祝活动。活动中突显了德国独有的、交织着胜利与悲怆的复杂情感。
In a 20-minute speech at a new memorial to the tragedies wrought by the wall, Ms. Merkel noted the special meaning of Nov. 9 in German history. It was on that day, in 1918, that Kaiser Wilhelm II abdicated, “after four terrible years” of World War I. In 1923, it was the date of Hitler’s failed march on the Munich Festhalle. In 1938, she said, it was when the Nazis set fire to synagogues, plundered Jewish homes and businesses and detained and killed thousands of Jews — “the start of the killing of millions” in the catastrophe of the Holocaust.
在一个新落成的柏林墙的纪念场所，默克尔发表了20分钟的演讲。她提到了11月9日在德国历史上的特殊意义。默克尔说，都是在这一天，1918年，在第一次世界大战延续了“可怕的四年”之后，德皇威廉二世(Kaiser Wilhelm II)退位。1923年，希特勒在慕尼黑发动的政变失败。1938年，纳粹纵火焚烧了犹太教堂、洗劫了犹太家庭和商户，拘捕并杀害了数千名犹太人——成为了“令成百上千万犹太人遇害”的大屠杀的开始。
Only in 1989, after Europeans across the Soviet bloc were rising up against Communism, did Nov. 9 become a date of joy with the wall falling. Now, Ms. Merkel and many other speakers this weekend noted, it is up to Germans to nurture the memory, preserve democracy and intervene to prevent injustice.
只有在1989年，当苏联控制下的东欧集团的民众奋起反抗共产主义之后，由于柏林墙的倒塌，11月9日才成为一个欢乐的日子。如今，默克尔和周末期间的其他许多演讲者指出，德国人需要珍视这段记忆、守护民主，主动去阻止非正义的发生。
Thousands of words were spoken as hundreds of thousands of visitors converged on Berlin and captured millions of moments in the digital universe that did not exist a quarter-century ago. Where words and images were insufficient, the genius of Bach and Beethoven was summoned to express feelings.
数十万游客聚集在柏林，用25年前不存在的数码设备捕捉了几百万个瞬间，用千言万语来倾诉心声。当语言和影像苍白无力时，人们借由巴赫和贝多芬的伟大作品来抒发情感。
Dorothea Ebert, a violinist who spent time in an East German jail after an unsuccessful attempt to flee to the West in 1983, performed for the chancellor and about 100 guests at the opening of the memorial, playing Bach’s Allemande from the Partita in D minor for solo violin. Hours later, the conductor Daniel Barenboim lead the Staatskapelle Berlin and the Staatsoper choir in Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy” at the Brandenburg Gate.
小提琴演奏家多罗西娅·埃伯特(Dorothea Ebert)1983年逃往西德的尝试失败后，在东德的监狱里待过一段时间。在柏林墙纪念地的开幕式上，埃伯特为默克尔和约100位来宾演奏了巴赫的帕蒂塔组曲中的D小调阿列曼德舞曲。几个小时后，在勃兰登堡门，指挥家丹尼尔·巴伦博伊姆(Daniel Barenboim)带领柏林国家管弦乐团和国家歌剧院合唱团演奏了贝多芬的《欢乐颂》(Ode to Joy)。
Earlier in the day, the Hungarian conductor Ivan Fischer presided over an event at the magnificent Konzerthaus at which musicians from any Berlin orchestras or choirs were invited to the concert hall to join in an unrehearsed rendering of the final scene of the second act of Beethoven’s opera “Fidelio.”
当天早些时候，匈牙利指挥家伊万·费希尔(Ivan Fischer)在气势宏伟的柏林音乐厅主持了一项活动，邀请柏林所有交响乐团和合唱团的音乐家来到这里，共同即兴演绎贝多芬的歌剧《费德里奥》(Fidelio)第二幕的最后一场。
“There was no rehearsal for that night 25 years ago,” Mr. Fischer said. “So not today either.”
“25年前的那个夜晚没有彩排，”费希尔说，“今天也没有。”
The Konzerthaus event, one of many citywide celebrations, drew a number of foreign dignitaries, including Lech Walesa, the founder of Poland’s Solidarity trade union; Miklos Nemeth, prime minister of Hungary when it opened the first hole in the Iron Curtain, allowing East Germans who were visiting Hungary to cross into Austria months before the wall fell; and the former Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev, whose glasnost and perestroika policies paved the way for the successful popular uprisings across the Soviet bloc in 1989.
柏林音乐厅的活动是整座城市的诸多庆祝活动之一。它吸引了一些外国显要，包括波兰团结工会创始人莱赫·瓦文萨(Lech Walesa)；匈牙利前总理内梅特·米克洛什(Miklos Nemeth)——他担任总理期间，匈牙利带头打破了铁幕，在柏林墙倒塌的几个月前，就允许来到匈牙利的东德人穿过边境进入奥地利；以及前苏联领导人米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)——他的“开放”和“重组”政策为1989年苏联势力范围内各国成功的民众起义扫清了障碍。
Mr. Walesa and Mr. Nemeth were warmly welcomed by the 1,000 or so guests; Mr. Gorbachev received a standing ovation. The president of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz, a German, used the occasion to warn of the danger of rising nationalism in Europe, and of the need to create hope for the post-1989 generation of European youth, many of them are facing a hopeless quest for work.
瓦文萨和内梅特受到了约1000名来宾的热烈欢迎；戈尔巴乔夫接受了起立鼓掌的待遇。欧洲议会(European Parliament)议长、德国人马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schultz)则利用这一时刻警告人们，欧洲有民族主义抬头的危险，它必须为1989年之后出生的这一代欧洲年轻人创造希望。年轻一代当中，有许多人绝望地找不到工作。
But it was, above all, a German event.
但是，这毕竟是一场德国的活动。
Ms. Merkel focused on Bernauer Strasse, the site in north Berlin where the wall literally ran through houses and people jumped to freedom from their windows as the wall went up on Aug. 13, 1961. It is now the site of an open-air memorial and museum that Berlin’s mayor, Klaus Wowereit, said would attract more than a million visitors this year.
默克尔把重点放在了柏努尔街上。此地位于柏林北部，当年柏林墙就是从这里穿过了众多房屋；1961年8月13日柏林墙建成之时，人们也是在这里纷纷从窗口跳出，奔向自由。现在，它成为了一座露天的纪念与博物馆。柏林市长克劳斯·沃维莱特(Klaus Wowereit)表示，今年此地将吸引逾100万名游客。
After laying a yellow-and-red rose in memory of the 138 people killed trying to cross the wall — hundreds more died at the border that divided Germany itself — Ms. Merkel attended a brief religious service at which Berlin’s Lutheran bishop, Markus Dröge, extolled the “great and fragile gift of freedom.”
默克尔献上了一朵红黄两色的玫瑰，纪念因为试图翻越柏林墙而遇害的138人——还有数以百计的民众死在东西德边境。之后，她参加了一个简短的宗教仪式。柏林的新教路德宗主教马库斯·德勒格(Markus Dröge)在仪式上颂扬了“自由这个伟大而脆弱的恩赐”。
Christian Klopf, a local Berliner who helped start the drive for a memorial at the site, said that he passed it every day on a once-impossible journey from East to West. “And every day it is a great feeling,” he said.
克里斯蒂安·克洛普弗(Christian Klopf)是一名柏林本地人，曾经参与提议在柏努尔街设立纪念设施。他说自己每天都要穿过这里，而以前从东德到西德根本是一段不可能实现的路程。他说，“现在每天的感觉都非常棒。”
Renate Fischer, another local resident, recalled how activists like herself at first just wanted to reform East Germany. “But then the impossible happened, and today it is routine,” she said.
当地居民雷娜特·菲舍尔(Renate Fischer)还记得，像她这样的活动人士最初只想改革东德。“但是后来，不可思议的事情发生了，而现在已经成了家常便饭，”她说。
Many of the East Germans who led the small but vocal dissident movement were prominent in this weekend’s celebrations. On Friday, Wolf Biermann, a singer who was stripped of his East German citizenship by the Communists in 1976, caused a stir when he used an appearance in the German Parliament to attack the Left Party, which consists partly of former Communists. When reminded that he had no right to make a speech, Mr. Biermann retorted that he was not going to be silenced now.
在周末的庆祝活动中，许多曾领导规模虽小但却颇具声势的异见运动的东德人备受瞩目。周五，1976年被共产党剥夺东德公民身份的歌手沃尔夫·比尔曼(Wolf Biermann)引起了一阵骚动。他利用当天在德国议会露面的机会攻击了左翼党(Left Party)——该党的部分成员以前是共产党员。当有人提醒他无权发表演讲时，比尔曼反驳道，现在无人能让他保持沉默。