BERLIN — The leader of an anti-immigrant movement that has attracted tens of thousands of supporters and upended political debate in Germany stepped down on Wednesday after he was found to have posted an online image of himself as Adolf Hitler, after weeks of denying any Nazi sympathies.
柏林——周三，一场吸引了数以万计的支持者，并在德国掀起了一场政治讨论的反移民运动的领导人宣布下台，原因是他被发现在网上发布过一张扮成阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)的照片。此前几周，他一直否认同情纳粹。
In the photograph, the leader, Lutz Bachmann, has his dark hair combed straight and severely parted above his right temple and wears a toothbrush mustache, closely resembling Hitler. The image was found on Mr. Bachmann’s Facebook page and appeared on the front page of the mass-circulation newspaper Bild on Wednesday. It soon went viral on social media sites.
在那张照片里，名为卢茨·巴赫曼(Lutz Bachmann)的这位领导人把自己的黑发梳直，从右侧的太阳穴处分开并拨到左边，还蓄上了牙刷似的胡子，非常像希特勒。这张照片是在巴赫曼的Facebook页面上找到的。周三，它出现在了发行量巨大的《图片报》(Bild)头版，并很快在社交媒体上疯传。
The issue is a sensitive one in Germany because of its history, and Chancellor Angela Merkel and other high-ranking officials have repeatedly denounced the anti-immigrant movement, widely known by its German acronym Pegida, which stands for Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West.
因为历史原因，这个问题在德国颇为敏感，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和其他高层官员已多次谴责这一反移民运动。该运动广为人知的名称是其德语缩写Pegida，全称是“爱国欧洲人反对西方伊斯兰化”(Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamization of the West)。
The controversy broke out even as the movement called on supporters to turn out on Wednesday in large numbers at an anti-immigration rally in the eastern city of Leipzig. The group, which has largely been confined to Dresden in eastern Germany, has grown a few offshoots, which are increasingly countered by larger marches throughout Germany in support of immigration.
争论爆发时，该运动正在号召大量支持者前往东部城市莱比锡，参加那里的一场反移民集会。主要在德国东部的德累斯顿活动的这个组织，又新增了几个分支。但这些分支受到了越来越多的反对，德国各地都举行了规模更大的支持移民的游行。
Mr. Bachmann, 41, told Bild that he was stepping down from the movement’s leadership. Earlier in the day, he declined to comment on the image when reached by telephone. Nor would he address another exchange on social media in which he is quoted as having referred to immigrants as “scumbags,” “stupid cows” and “trash.”
41岁的巴赫曼对《图片报》表示，他将退出该组织的领导层。当天早些时候接到采访电话时，他拒绝就那张照片发表评论，也不愿回应社交媒体上流传的另一段对话。有人称他在那段对话中，把移民称作“人渣”、“蠢驴”和“垃圾”。
Dresden prosecutors said they were investigating whether there were sufficient grounds to bring charges against Mr. Bachmann. German law forbids the display of Nazi symbols and punishes incitement and hate speech.
德累斯顿检方表示，他们正在调查是否有足够的依据控告巴赫曼。德国法律禁止展示纳粹标志，并规定应对煽动和仇恨言论给予惩罚。
“Hitler photos, racist slogans, now we see what is really behind Pegida’s middle-class facade,” Sigmar Gabriel, Ms. Merkel’s deputy chancellor, told Bild, deriding the group for posing as defenders of the people while harboring Nazi sentiments.
“扮成希特勒的照片，还有种族主义口号，我们现在看到了Pegida在中产阶级的表象背后，有怎样的真实面目，”默克尔手下的副总理西格玛尔·加布里尔(Sigmar Gabriel)对《图片报》说，并嘲笑该组织在伪装成人民卫士的同时，还心怀纳粹情绪。
“Anyone involved in politics who dresses up as Hitler is either pretty much an idiot, or a Nazi,” Mr. Gabriel said.
“任何涉足政治的人，如果打扮成希特勒，要么是大白痴，要么就是纳粹，”加布里尔说。
On Wednesday, Mr. Bachmann’s profile picture on Facebook had been changed to an image of Charlie Chaplin as the Great Dictator, from the 1940 film that parodied Hitler, with the comment, “He can do satire ... not Lutz!”
周三，巴赫曼的Facebook头像已经换成了查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)在1940年恶搞希特勒的影片《大独裁者》(Great Dictator)中的剧照，还加上了一句评语，“他能讽刺，卢茨不能！”
Mr. Bachmann told Bild that he had posted the Hitler photo to coincide with the release of an audio version of a satirical book by Timur Vermes, a German writer, called “Er Ist Wieder Da,” or “Look Who’s Back,” in which Hitler returns to Berlin in 2011. “One has to be able to sometimes make fun of oneself,” he told the paper.
巴赫曼对《图片报》表示，他发布那张扮成希特勒的照片，是因为当时德国作家蒂穆尔·韦尔梅斯(Timur Vermes)的讽刺作品《希特勒回来了》(Er Ist Wieder Da)推出了有声版。该书讲述了希特勒2011年回到柏林的故事。“人有时候得能自嘲，”他对该报说。
The surprising strength of the Pegida movement has dominated German political debate since late December, when the group attracted more than 10,000 people to its weekly marches through Dresden.
去年12月底，Pegida运动吸引了1万多人参加贯穿德累斯顿的每周游行。自那以来，该组织令人惊讶的影响力一直主导着德国的政治讨论。
The authorities in Leipzig said some 35,000 people filled the city streets Wednesday night, with those marching for tolerance outnumbering Pegida’s supporters. Pegida’s primary goals are limiting the influx of immigrants, protecting the country’s Judeo-Christian heritage and rejecting so-called hate preachers of any kind. Followers also rail about foreigners’ living off German taxpayers.
莱比锡当局称，周三晚上该市街头大约有3.5万人，其中呼吁宽容的游行者比Pegida的支持者多。Pegida的主要目标是限制移民进入德国、保护该国的犹太教和基督教传统，以及反对一切所谓的仇恨鼓吹者。该运动的追随者也强烈抗议外国人靠德国纳税人的钱生活。
Chancellor Merkel and her government have repeatedly warned Germans against following Pegida, questioning the motives underlying its anti-immigrant message.
默克尔及其领导的政府已多次告诫德国人不要追随Pegida，并质疑其反移民讯息背后的潜在动机。
Pegida’s leaders have largely avoided talking to the news media, and advise their followers to do the same, contributing to an air of mystery about the organization’s origins.
Pegida的领袖大多回避向新闻媒体发声，并建议其追随者也这么做。这使得该组织的源头产生了一层神秘色彩。
Mr. Bachmann was one of the more visible members of the leadership. Last fall, as the marches began, the local newspaper Sächsische Zeitung reported that Mr. Bachmann had a criminal record: convictions for 16 burglaries, driving drunk or without a license and dealing in cocaine. The newspaper also reported that he had worked as a publicist for nightclubs at one point.
巴赫曼是Pegida的领导层中曝光率较高的一个。去年秋天，在游行开始之际，当地的《萨克森报》(Sächsische Zeitung)报道称，巴赫曼有过犯罪记录：罪名包括16宗盗窃，另外还有酒驾或无照驾驶，以及贩卖可卡因。该报还报道，他曾经为一些夜总会做过公关人员。
Interviewed last month before one of the Monday evening marches in Dresden, Mr. Bachmann was asked about his criminal past and whether it accorded with his concerns that immigrants were bringing crime to Germany. Addressing the marchers, he said, “I, too, have a previous life,” adding, “If it is better for our cause, I am ready to step out of the unwanted spotlight.”
上个月，在德累斯顿周一晚上的一场例行游行之前，巴赫曼在接受采访时被问及上述的犯罪记录，以及这是否与他担心移民把犯罪活动带到德国的观点相冲突。他对游行人群说，“我也有过去的人生，”他接着说，“如果对我们的事业有帮助的话，我愿意放弃这些我本不想得到的关注。”
Pegida has sought to play down allegations of links to the far right, insisting that it is a grass-roots movement of concerned citizens.
Pegida寻求淡化与极右翼存在关联的指控，坚持称这是忧虑的公民发起的一场草根运动。
It has also sought to play down the reports that Mr. Bachmann has a criminal record, with Katrin Oertel, another leader, saying on national public television that everyone deserves a second chance.
它还寻求淡化巴赫曼有犯罪记录的报道。另一名领导人物凯特琳·厄特尔(Katrin Oertel)在全国公共电视台上说，人人都应该有重新开始的机会。