PARIS — As officials struggled Wednesday to explain why a jet with 150 people on board crashed in relatively clear skies, an investigator said evidence from a cockpit voice recorder indicated one pilot left the cockpit before the plane’s descent and was unable to get back in.
巴黎——周三，官员们仍在艰难地解释为何一架载有150人的飞机会在相对晴朗的天气里坠毁，一名调查人员称，驾驶舱内的一部语音记录仪显示，一名飞行员在飞机坠落前离开了驾驶舱，并且一直未能回到舱内。
A senior military official involved in the investigation described “very smooth, very cool” conversation between the pilots during the early part of the flight from Barcelona to Düsseldorf. Then the audio indicated that one of the pilots left the cockpit and could not re-enter.
一名参与调查的军方高级官员称，在从巴塞罗那到杜塞尔多夫的这段行程的早期，飞行员之间的对话“非常流畅，非常冷静”。然而后来的音频显示，其中一名飞行员离开了驾驶舱，一直没有回来。
“The guy outside is knocking lightly on the door and there is no answer,” the investigator said. “And then he hits the door stronger and no answer. There is never an answer.”
“外面的人轻轻地敲了门，但没人应答，”这名调查人员说。“然后，他又用更大的力气敲门，还是没人回应。一直没人回应。”
He said, “You can hear he is trying to smash the door down.”
他说，“你可以听出，他当时试图把门撞开。”
While the audio seemed to give some insight into the circumstances leading up to the crash, it also left many questions unanswered.
这段音频似乎反映出了坠机前的部分情形，但仍然有许多待解的疑问。
"We don’t know yet the reason why one of the guys went out,” said the official, who requested anonymity because the investigation is continuing. "But what is sure is that at the very end of the flight, the other pilot is alone and does not open the door."
“我们仍然不知道其中一名飞行员出驾驶舱的原因，”一名官员说。由于调查仍在进行当中，他要求不具名。“但可以肯定的是，在飞行终结的时刻，另一名飞行员是独自一人在驾驶舱内，而且没有去开舱门。”
The data from the voice recorder seems only to deepen the mystery surrounding the crash. The plane’s descent from 38,000 feet over about 10 minutes was alarming but still gradual enough to indicate that the twin-engine Airbus A320 had not been damaged catastrophically . At no point during the descent was there any communication from the cockpit to air traffic controllers or any other signal of an emergency.
语音记录仪中的数据似乎反而加深了围绕这起空难的谜团。飞机在约10分钟的时间里从3.8万英尺（约合1.1万米）的空中降至地面。这听起来虽然令人担忧，但过程仍然是相当渐进的，显示出这架双引擎的空客A320客机当时并没有严重损毁。然而，在整个下降过程中，驾驶舱与空管人员之间没有任何通讯，也并未发出任何其他的紧急信号。
When the plane plowed into craggy mountains northeast of Nice, it was traveling with enough speed that it was all but pulverized, killing the 144 passengers and crew of six and leaving behind almost no apparent clues about what caused the crash.
当飞机栽进尼斯东北部的陡峭山区时，它下落的速度足以把机身摔得几近粉碎，导致144名乘客和六名机组人员悉数遇难。至于坠机的原因，则几乎没有留下任何明显的线索。
The French aviation authorities have made public very little, officially, about the nature of the information that has been recovered from the audio recording, and it was not clear whether it was partial or complete. France’s Bureau of Investigations and Analyses confirmed only that human voices and other cockpit sounds had been detected and would be subjected to detailed analysis.
法国航空管理部门三缄其口，没有通过正式渠道透露多少从语音记录仪中获得的这些信息的性质。目前也尚不清楚这仅为部分信息，还是全部信息。法国调查与分析局(French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)只是证实，检测到了人员的说话声和机舱内的其他杂音，将对这些声音进行更细致的分析。
Asked about the new evidence revealed in the cockpit recordings, Martine del Bono, a bureau spokeswoman, declined to comment. 
在被问到驾驶舱的录音披露出的这项新证据时，该机构的发言人马蒂娜·德尔博诺(Martine del Bono)拒绝置评。
"Our teams continue to work on analyzing the CVR,” she said, referring to the cockpit voice recorder. "As soon as we have accurate information we intend to hold a press conference.”
“我们的团队仍在尽力分析CVR上的信息，”她说。CVR即驾驶舱语音记录仪。“一旦我们得到了准确的信息，我们将举行新闻发布会。”
At the crash site, a senior official working on the investigation said, workers found the casing of the plane’s other black box, the flight data recorder, but the memory card containing data on the plane’s altitude, speed, location and condition was not inside, apparently having been thrown loose or destroyed by the impact.
在坠机现场，一名参与调查工作的高级官员称，工作人员发现了飞机另一个黑匣子——飞行数据记录仪——的外壳，但含有数据的内存卡没在里面，似乎被甩了出去，或是飞机撞地时遭到毁坏。卡里的数据包括飞行高度、速度、位置和飞机状况。
The flight’s trajectory ahead of the crash also left many unanswered questions.
这架飞机坠毁前的轨迹也留下了许多未解的谜团。
Rémi Jouty, the director of the French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis, said at a news conference that the plane took off at around 10 a.m. local time from Barcelona and that the last message sent from the pilot to air traffic controllers had been at 10:30 a.m., which indicated that the plane was proceeding on course.
法国调查与分析局局长雷米·茹蒂(Rémi Jouty)在新闻发布会上表示，当地时间上午10点左右，飞机从巴塞罗那起飞，而飞行员发送给空管人员的最后一条消息是在上午10点30分，其内容显示飞机在既定航线上行进。
But minutes later, the plane inexplicably began to descend, Mr. Jouty said. At 10:40 and 47 seconds, the plane reported its last radar position, at an altitude of 6,175 feet. “The radar could follow the plane until the point of impact,” he said.
茹蒂称，然而几分钟后，飞机不明原因地开始下降。上午10点40分47秒，飞机最后一次报告了雷达位置，当时的飞行高度为6175英尺。“在飞机触地之前，雷达都可以追踪到它的位置，”他说。
It often takes months or even years to determine the causes of plane crashes, but a little more than a year after the disappearance of a Malaysian airlines jetliner that has never been found, the loss of the Germanwings flight from Barcelona to Düsseldorf is shaping up to be particularly perplexing to investigators.
确定飞机失事的原因通常需要几个月乃至几年。在马来西亚航空公司的一架客机失踪一年多之后，从巴塞罗那飞往杜塞尔多夫的这架德国之翼的飞机似乎也将让调查人员大伤脑筋。
One of the main questions outstanding is why the pilots did not communicate with air traffic controllers as the plane began its unusual descent, suggesting that either the pilots or the plane’s automated systems may have been trying to maintain control of the aircraft as it lost altitude.
一个突出的问题是，当飞机开始非正常下降时，飞行员为何没有与空管人员沟通。这意味着，在飞机失去高度的过程中，飞行员或飞机的自动系统可能一直试图保持对飞机的操控。
Among the theories that have been put forward by air safety analysts not involved in the investigation is the possibility that the pilots could have been incapacitated by a sudden event such as a fire or a drop in cabin pressure.
一些未参与调查的航空安全分析人士提出了多种理论，其中一种称，飞行员可能因为某种突发事件而失去了行为能力，比如失火或机舱失压。
A senior French official involved in the investigation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the lack of communication from the pilots during the plane’s descent was disturbing, and that the possibility that their silence was deliberate could not be ruled out.
一名参与调查的法国高级官员在不具名的前提下表示，飞行员在客机下降过程中没有发出通讯信息，这令人不安，而且不能排除他们故意保持沉默的可能性。
“I don’t like it,” said the French official, who cautioned that his initial analysis was based on the very limited information currently available. “To me, it seems very weird: this very long descent at normal speed without any communications, though the weather was absolutely clear.”
“这很不妙，”这名法国官员说。他提醒人们，自己的初步分析基于的是目前所能得到的非常有限的信息。“在我看来，这太诡异了：飞机以正常速度下降了相当长的时间，在这一过程中却没有任何通讯，而当时的天气是绝对晴朗的。”
This official said that the lack of communication suggested that the pilots might have been incapacitated as a result of an onboard failure such as a loss of cabin pressure, which could have deprived the crew members of oxygen.
这名官员表示，没有通讯表明飞行员可能丧失了行动能力，原因则是机舱失压等机上故障。机舱失压可导致机组成员缺氧。
While all pilots are equipped with emergency oxygen masks, the pilots would first have to be aware that a depressurization had occurred, the official said.
该官员称，尽管所有飞行员都配备了紧急氧气面罩，但他们必须首先意识到出现了失压。
“If for any reason they don’t detect the problem in time, they would black out,” the official said.
“如果不管出于什么原因而没及时发现问题，他们就会失去知觉，”他说。
“So far, we don’t have any evidence that points clearly to a technical explanation,” the official said. “So we have to consider the possibility of deliberate human responsibility.”
“迄今为止，我们还没有任何证据明确指向技术上的解释，”这名官员说。“因此我们也不得不考虑故意的人为因素的可能。”
Mr. Jouty said it was far too early in the investigation to speculate about possible causes.
茹蒂表示，在目前的调查阶段，推测可能的原因还为时过早。
“At this moment I have no beginning of a scenario,” Mr. Jouty said. However, he said there was not yet any evidence available that would support either a theory of a depressurization or of a midair explosion
“现在这个时候，我还没有开始设想可能的情况，” 茹蒂说。但他表示，尚未发现支持失压理论或空中爆炸理论的任何证据。
Speaking on the French radio station RTL, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said on Wednesday morning that terrorism was not a likely “hypothesis at the moment,” but that no theories had been definitively excluded. Mr. Cazeneuve said the size of the area over which debris was scattered suggested that the aircraft had not exploded in the air but rather had disintegrated on impact.
周三上午，法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)在接受法国广播电台RTL的采访时表示，“目前看来”恐怖主义不是可能的“假设”，但也尚未完全排除任何理论。卡泽纳夫称，碎片散落区域的面积表明，飞机未在空中爆炸，而是在触地时解体。
Lufthansa, the parent company of Germanwings, has characterized the crash as an accident. The airline has not disclosed the identities of the pilots, except to say that the captain was a 10-year veteran with more than 6,000 hours of flying time in A320s.
德国之翼的母公司汉莎航空将此次坠机定性为意外事件。公司尚未公布飞行员的身份，仅表示机长是一名有10年驾龄的资深飞行员，驾驶A320系列的时间超过6000小时。
The French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis, which is leading the technical inquiry into the crash, sent seven investigators to the crash site on Tuesday. They have been joined by their counterparts from Germany, as well as by technical advisers from Airbus and CFM International, the manufacturer of the plane’s engines.
周二当天，牵头对坠机事件进行技术调查的法国调查与分析局派了七名调查人员前往坠机现场。来自德国的官方调查人员，以及来自空客和飞机发动机生产商CFM国际(CFM International)的技术顾问也已加入了他们的队伍。