DÜSSELDORF, Germany — Andreas Lubitz, who was flying the Germanwings jetliner that slammed into a mountain in the French Alps on Tuesday, sought treatment for vision problems that may have jeopardized his ability to continue working as a pilot, two officials with knowledge of the investigation said Saturday.
德国杜塞尔多夫——安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)周二驾驶着德国之翼(Germanwings)的客机在法国撞向了阿尔卑斯山脉的一座高山。两名了解调查情况的官员周六透露，卢比茨曾因视力问题寻求治疗，这可能损害了他继续担任飞行员的能力。
The revelation of the possible trouble with his eyes added a new element to the emerging portrait of the 27-year-old German pilot, who the authorities say was also being treated for psychological issues and had hidden aspects of his medical condition from his employer. The police found antidepressants during a search of his apartment here Thursday, an official said Saturday.
他的眼睛可能存在问题的消息，使人们对这名27岁的德国飞行员有了新的了解，关于他的情况正逐步展现在公众视野当中。官方表示，卢比茨同时也在接受心理治疗，并向雇主隐瞒了自己的健康状况。一名官员周六表示，警方周四在对他位于这里的公寓进行搜查时，发现了抗抑郁药物。
It is not clear how severe his eye problems were or how they might have been related to his psychological condition. One person with knowledge of the investigation said the authorities had not ruled out the possibility that the vision problem could have been psychosomatic.
目前仍不清楚他眼睛的问题有多严重，也不知道这些问题与他的精神状况可能有怎样的联系。调查过程的一名知情者称，官方尚未排除他的视力问题是由精神疾病引发的可能性。
Lubitz, the co-pilot, was alone in the cockpit of the Airbus A320 jetliner on the flight from Barcelona to Düsseldorf, ignoring demands from the captain to be let back in, when the plane crashed. The French prosecutor in the case, drawing from cockpit voice recordings and other data about the flight, has said that Lubitz deliberately guided the plane, with another 149 people on board, into the mountains.
飞机坠毁时，这架从巴塞罗那飞往杜塞尔多夫的空中客车(Airbus) A320班机的驾驶舱里，只有副驾驶卢比茨一人，他没有理会机长重新进入驾驶舱的要求。负责此案的法国检察官根据驾驶舱录音和航班的其他数据推断，卢比茨当时是故意驾驶这架飞机撞向了山峰。除他之外，机上还载有149人。
Since then investigators in Germany and France, airline regulators, political leaders and the families of the victims have sought answers about what might have led Lubitz to do what he did.
从那时起，德国和法国的调查人员、民航监管部门、政治领导人，以及受害者家属都在寻找答案，试图弄清楚卢比茨为何要这么做。
The information available so far about a possible motive remains sketchy. Investigators and journalists continue to search for clues from every period and corner of his life, including his relationship with a longtime girlfriend and a report in a German newspaper on Saturday that another woman with whom he had a relationship had described him as unstable.
关于可能动机的现有信息都并不详细。调查人员和记者仍然在他生命中的每段时期和每个角落寻找蛛丝马迹，其中包括他与一名曾长期交往的女友之间的关系。此外，一家德国报纸周六报道，另一名曾与他交往的女性表示，他的精神状态不稳定。
Many questions remain unanswered, if not unanswerable, including whether his decisions in the cockpit Tuesday morning were impulsive or planned.
许多疑问仍有待解答——即使不是完全无法回答——包括他周二上午在驾驶舱里所做的决定，究竟是临时起意，还是早有预谋。
Police officers searching Lubitz's apartment here in Düsseldorf on Thursday found notes from various doctors testifying that he was too ill to work, including on the day of the crash. Prosecutors refused to comment on the illness specified in the notes. One had been torn up and thrown in the wastebasket, supporting investigators' suspicion that he was hiding his medical problems from the airline.
周四，警方搜查了卢比茨位于杜塞尔多夫的公寓，在其中发现了多名医生开具的证明，称他的病情过于严重不能工作。坠机发生当日正处于应病休的时间当中。检察机关拒绝就医生诊断上指出的病情发表评论。其中一张证明还被撕毁，扔进了垃圾篓里，这印证了调查人员的推测——他在对航空公司隐瞒病情。
It appears that, as was the case with his psychiatric problems, Mr. Lubitz did not tell the airline about his vision concerns.
与精神问题一样，卢比茨也没有告知航空公司，自己视力方面存在的问题。
Although he was flying for a commercial airline, Mr. Lubitz was a co-pilot and not working the kind of long-haul routes he aspired to.
虽然卢比茨为民用航空公司工作，但他是副驾驶，而且没有像自己期望的那样，执飞长距离航线。
When Klaus Radke, president of the club where Mr. Lubitz learned to fly gliders, the Luftsportclub Westerwald, first met Andreas Lubitz, he was a typical 14-year-old in the throes of puberty who was unusual only in his wide-eyed fascination with flying, Mr. Radke said. Last fall, when Mr. Lubitz came back to the club to put in some flight hours he needed to keep his glider’s license current, Mr. Radke was impressed at the fit, by all appearances self-assured and professional pilot that Mr. Lubitz had become.
卢比茨曾在韦斯特瓦尔德飞行俱乐部(Luftsportclub Westerwald)学习驾驶滑翔机，该俱乐部老板克劳斯·拉德克(Klaus Radke)表示，他第一次见到安德烈亚斯·卢比茨时，卢比茨还是一个正在经历青春期躁动的14岁男孩，但他与众不同的地方在于他对飞行的痴迷。去年秋天，卢比茨为了不让滑翔机驾驶执照失效，回到该俱乐部增加飞行时间。那时卢比茨让拉德克印象深刻，他外表健康，而且看起来已经成为一名非常自信且专业的飞行员。
“When I saw him as an adult compared to a youth, I thought, ‘He really amounted to something,’ ” Mr. Radke said Saturday under a sunny sky as wind swept the grassy landing strip used by the glider club. “He was confident, helpful. I thought, ‘Man, he’s someone who made it.’ ”
“当我看到他从一个少年长大成人，我想，‘他真的是有所作为，’”拉德克周六说。“他很自信，热心。我觉得，‘他确实成功了。’”拉德克站在晴朗的天空下，说这番话时微风吹过了滑翔机俱乐部长满青草的着陆带。
Mr. Radke, who said the club had received emailed death threats for helping Mr. Lubitz begin his flying career, picked up no sign last year that anything with Mr. Lubitz was amiss.
拉德克表示，有人通过电子邮件向飞行俱乐部死亡威胁，谴责他们帮助卢比茨开始了自己的飞行生涯。拉德克表示，他去年没有发现显示卢比茨存在问题的任何迹象。
“I’m not a doctor,” Mr. Radke said. “For me he was normal.”
“我不是医生，”拉德克说。“但在我看来，他是正常人。”
The parent company of Germanwings, Lufthansa, said this week that Mr. Lubitz had interrupted his pilot training at one point for several months for reasons it did not disclose.
德国之翼的母公司汉莎航空(Lufthansa)在本周表示，卢比茨曾一度中断过飞行员训练，中断时间长达几个月，但该公司没有透露原因。