BERLIN — A railway dispatcher apparently caused the deadly collision of two trains in the German state of Bavaria on Feb. 9 because he was playing a game on his cellphone until just before the accident, according to state prosecutors.
柏林——据州检察官称，德国巴伐利亚州2月9日发生的两列火车相撞并造成人员伤亡的事故，似乎是一名铁路调度员造成的，因为直到事故快发生时，他一直在手机上玩游戏。
Eleven people died, and 80 were injured, some seriously, in the crash, which occurred on a single-track stretch of railway near Bad Aibling in Bavaria, about 35 miles southeast of Munich. A week later, the state prosecutor Wolfgang Giese said that the dispatcher, identified only as a 39-year-old man, had violated work rules and had most likely caused the crash.
事故发生在巴伐利亚州巴特艾布灵(Bad Aibling)附近的一段单轨铁路上。巴特艾布灵位于慕尼黑东南约35英里（约合56公里）处。事故造成11人死亡，80人受伤，部分人员伤势严重。事故发生一周后，该州检察官沃尔夫冈·吉泽(Wolfgang Giese)称这名调度员违反工作规定，极有可能是造成撞车事故的原因。吉泽仅透露该调度员是一名39岁的男子。
On Tuesday, Mr. Giese issued a warrant for the dispatcher’s arrest. He is expected to be charged with involuntary manslaughter, as well as violating work rules.
周二，吉泽签发了对这名调度员的逮捕令。他预计会被控过失杀人和违反工作规定。
“The latest investigation shows that, in violation of the railway work rules, the accused switched on his mobile phone during his shift on the morning of the accident, started an online computer game and played actively for an extended period of time until shortly before the collision,” Mr. Giese said in a statement.
“最新调查表明，发生事故的那天上午，被告违反工作规定，在当班期间打开手机，开始玩一款在线电脑游戏，并投入地玩了相当长一段时间，直到撞车事故发生前不久才停下来，”吉泽在一份声明中表示。
“On the basis of the timing, one must assume that the attention of the accused was diverted from regulating the traffic” on the railway, the statement added. “Because of this distraction, the accused made some false assumptions about where the trains might cross, gave the wrong signals to the trains and entered a false combination for an emergency call to the trains, so that the drivers never heard those signals.”
“从时间上来看，我们必须假设被告的注意力被从控制铁路交通上转移了，”声明接着说。“因为分心，被告对列车可能会在哪里相遇做出了错误的估计，向列车发出了错误的信号，并输入了错误的列车紧急呼叫密码，导致司机根本未听到那些信号。”
The dispatcher admitted to having played a game, but he told a court in Rosenheim on Tuesday that his attention had not been diverted, the statement said.
声明称涉事调度员承认玩过游戏，但周二在罗森海姆的法庭上表示自己的注意力并未被分散。
Björn Pfeifer, a spokesman for the state prosecutor in Traunstein, said that officials would not make any further statement on Wednesday.
州检察官的发言人比约恩·法伊费尔(Björn Pfeifer)在特劳恩施泰因表示，官方不会在周三当天发表进一步的声明。
The trains and the track involved in the February crash were fitted with an automatic brake system that was introduced in Germany after 10 people died in a similar rail accident in 2011.
2月那起事故中的列车和轨道安装了自动制动系统。该系统是德国在2011年一起类似的铁路事故造成10人死亡后引入的。