RIO DE JANEIRO — The Olympics are as much about what warms the heart or initiates debate as who wins the medals. But what warms the heart or initiates debate can be a matter of perspective in a sprawling event that brings together more than 200 nations and territories.
里约热内卢——在奥运会上备受关注的，除了赢得奖牌的运动员，还有温暖人心亦或引发争论的事情。但在一场把200多个国家和地区汇聚起来的盛大活动中，事情会温暖人心还是会引发争论，可能与看待问题的角度有关。
There was little division on Tuesday in the Olympic Stadium, when two runners — Abbey D’Agostino of the United States and Nikki Hamblin of New Zealand — offered a helping hand to each other after a collision in the 5,000 meters and then urged each other on to the finish.
周二的奥林匹克体育场内，当两位赛跑选手——美国的阿贝·达戈斯蒂诺 (Abbey D’Agostino)和新西兰的尼基·汉布林(Nikki Hamblin)——在5000米项目中相撞，却相互扶持、相互敦促着跑向终点的时候，人们的看法基本没有分歧。
“I mean, that girl is the Olympic spirit right there,” Hamblin said afterward, speaking to reporters about D’Agostino.
“我是说，那个女孩是奥林匹克精神的化身，”事后对记者谈及达戈斯蒂诺时，汉布林这样说道。
But on Sunday in the women’s marathon, when the German twins and training partners Anna and Lisa Hahner decided — spontaneously, they insist — to join hands as they crossed the finish line deep in the pack and far from the medals, they quickly drew sharp criticism.
但在周日的女子马拉松比赛中，当既是双胞胎又是训练伙伴的德国选手安娜·哈纳和丽莎·哈纳(Anna and Lisa Hahner) 决定——她们坚称是自然而然地决定——在众多落后选手当中携手跨过终点，且成绩远远不足以拿到奖牌的时候，她们很快就招致了尖锐的批评。
German track and field officials accused them of publicity seeking and treating the Olympic marathon “like a fun run.”
德国田径官员指责两人炒作，以“跑着玩儿”的态度对待奥运会的马拉松项目。
This is not just a German point of view, of course, but it does reflect the range of expectations as athletes navigate the cultural norms that relate to competition and sportsmanship.
当然了，这不仅仅是德国人看待问题的角度，它还反映出，当运动员面对关乎竞争和体育精神的文化规范时，人们的预期是多种多样的。
The Egyptian judoka Islam El Shehaby, who refused to shake the hand of his Israeli opponent Or Sasson, was following his nation’s standards — one that Olympic officials expressly reject. He was ejected from the Games.
埃及柔道选手伊斯拉姆·苏哈比(Islam El Shehaby)拒绝跟来自以色列的对手奥尔·沙森(Or Sasson)握手，是在遵循其祖国的行事标准——而奥林匹克官员显然并不认可这种标准。他被逐出了本届奥运会。
There was no outcry, only amusement, when David Katoatau, an exuberant weight lifter from Kirabati, danced offstage on Monday with the goal of heightening awareness of the threat posed by climate change to his tiny nation in the central Pacific Ocean.
周一，当基里巴斯那位兴高采烈的举重选手戴维·卡托亚陶(David Katoatau)在赛场上跳起舞来，想让外界更加关注气候变化对这个位于太平洋中央的小国造成的威胁时，人们并未一片哗然，只是觉得有趣。
The Hahner twins had no political agenda when they joined hands to end their race, but their move, to their surprise, was still polarizing.
双胞胎哈纳姐妹牵手越过终点之举，并没有任何政治意图，但外界对其举动的看法却呈两极分化之势，这让她们非常吃惊。
“Victory and medals are not the only goal,” Thomas Kurschilgen, sports director of the German Athletics Federation, said in an email on Tuesday. “Still, every athlete in the Olympic competitions should be motivated to demonstrate his or her best performance and aim for the best possible result.”
“胜利和奖牌并非唯一的目标，”德国田径联合会运动主管托马斯·库尔席尔根(Thomas Kurschilgen)周二在邮件中表示。“不过，奥运赛场上的每名运动员都应该积极地拿出最好表现，并以尽其所能获得佳绩为目标。”
That approach, according to Kurschilgen, is what divides elite sport from mass-participation sport and what he thinks the Hahners failed to grasp.
库尔席尔根认为，这种态度让精英体育有别于大众参与式体育，但在他看来，哈纳姐妹并未领会这一点。
“Their main aim was to generate media attention,” he said. “That is what we criticize.”
“她们的主要目标是吸引媒体的注意，”他说。“我们批评的正是这一点。”
The twins, who placed 81st and 82nd in the marathon, do not see it that way. Contacted on Monday, they initially declined to speak, but Anna Hahner later sent an email in which she said they had not planned on finishing hand-in-hand and had done their best individually.
在马拉松比赛中分获第81名和82名的这对双胞胎姐妹并不这么看。记者周一联系采访时，她们起初拒绝置评，但安娜·哈纳随后发来了一封邮件。她在信中表示，她们并非计划好了要手牵手越过终点，而且都在赛场上尽了最大努力。
“In all the marathons we ran together before, there was a point in the race we had to split up,” Anna said. “This was also the case in the Olympic marathon.”
“在一同参加过的所有马拉松比赛中，我们在某个时刻总是不得不分开，”安娜说。“这次在奥运赛场上也是如此。”
Anna said she started faster, and then Lisa’s group caught up with her at around the 17-kilometer mark, at which point Anna said they ran about 3 kilometers together.
安娜说，她起初跑得更快一些，但在17公里标示牌附近，丽莎那拨人赶了上来，从那时起她们俩一起跑了大约3公里。
“But then I realized I couldn’t run this pace, and I had to let them go,” Anna said. “Lisa was always not far from me. After 40 kilometers, there was a turning point, and I knew, ‘OK Anna, 2 kilometers to go to close the gap to Lisa.’ I invested all I had and 300 meters before the finish line, I was next to Lisa. It was a magical moment that we could finish this marathon together. We did not think about what we were doing.”
“但接着我就意识到自己没法以这种速度跑下去，我必须让她们先走，”安娜说。“丽莎一直没有离我太远。跑了4万米之后，折返点出现了，我心想，‘好的，安娜，还有2000米可以用来赶上丽莎。’我拼尽了全力，在距离终点线还有300米的地方，跑到了丽莎身后。一起冲过终点线，是非常神奇的一刻。我们当时并没有考虑自己在做什么。”
But Anna said the symbolism was not lost on either twin. “We trained the last four years to participate in this marathon,” she said. “Neither the time nor the position was what made us happy but to know that we did the best that was possible that day.”
不过安娜也表示，这场比赛对她们并非没有象征意义。“为了参加这场马拉松，我们训练了四年，”她说。“但让我们开心的不是跑完全程的用时和名次，而是知道我们尽最大努力实现了那天所能取得的最好成绩。”
And yet the sisters were well short of their best marathon performances. Anna’s personal best in the marathon is 2 hours 26 minutes 44 seconds. Lisa’s is 2:28.39. In Rio, Anna finished in 2:45.32, and Lisa in 2:45.33 despite coming early to the Olympic city to acclimatize.
不过，这对姐妹远远没有达到她们此前的最佳水平。安娜在马拉松赛事上的个人最好成绩是2小时26分44秒。丽莎是2小时28分39秒。在里约奥运会上，安娜以2小时45分32秒的时间跑完全程，丽莎跑了2小时45分33秒，尽管她们很早就来到了举办奥运的这座城市适应比赛环境。
Clearly, the large time gap between their previous performances and their Olympic performances made Kurschilgen and others only more convinced that they were not seeing the twins’ best effort.
显然，她们此前的表现和这次奥运会成绩的巨大差距只会让库尔席尔根等人更加确信，他们看到的不是这对双胞胎姐妹的最佳表现。
There is a school of thought at the Olympics and elsewhere that it can be better for an athlete’s profile and even their bottom line to lose memorably — however unintentionally — than to win routinely. D’Agostino and Hamblin would not have become global talking points on Tuesday if they had simply collided and soldiered on without interacting.
在奥运会和其他领域有这么一种思想：相比于常规地赢得胜利，让人印象深刻地失败——不管有多么地无心——可能对一个运动员的形象、乃至获得的最终评价更加有利。如果达戈斯蒂诺和汉布林只是撞到一起然后各自坚持跑完全程，而不是相互扶持，她们不会在周二成为全球讨论的热点。
Nor would the British runner Derek Redmond have become part of an “Olympic moment” if he had simply won his 400 semifinal at the 1992 Olympics instead of tearing his hamstring and insisting on continuing the race. His father came onto the track to assist him as he hobbled to the finish with the Barcelona crowd cheering him on. Even though Redmond was disqualified for receiving outside aid, the image and the memory were and remain powerful.
倘若英国赛跑选手德里克·雷蒙德(Derek Redmond)在1992年奥运会的400米半决赛中直接胜出，而非在脚筋撕裂的情况下坚持完成比赛，他也不会成为“奥运时刻”的一部分。他的父亲来到赛场上，协助他一瘸一拐地走到了终点，巴塞罗那现场的观众一路为他欢呼加油。尽管雷蒙德最终因接受场外援助被取消了比赛资格，但他树立起的形象和给人们留下的记忆在当时影响很大，至今依然如此。
It is the unexpected and uncalculated gesture that so often moves the masses most, no matter what the culture.
这种出人意料、未经事先筹划的举动往往才是最让大众感动的，不管是在什么样的文化背景下。