MISSOULA, Mont. — Teenagers call it garage hopping. The goal was to sneak into an open garage, steal some beer or other items and slip away into the night. It was dumb and clearly illegal. It was not supposed to be deadly.
蒙大拿州米苏拉——潜入一个没有上锁的车库，偷一些啤酒或其他物品，然后悄悄溜走，消失在夜色中，这种行为被青少年称为“车库之旅”。它不仅愚蠢，显然还是非法的，但却不该有人为之丧命。
Around midnight on April 27, a 17-year-old exchange student from Germany named Diren Dede left the host home where he played Xbox and drained cans of Sprite to set off with a friend through his dark hillside neighborhood. They passed a home whose garage door hung partially open. Using a cellphone for light, Mr. Dede headed in.
4月27日午夜前后，一名来自德国的17岁交换生迪伦·迪德(Diren Dede)在玩过Xbox游戏、灌下几听雪碧之后，离开了房东家，和一个朋友一起，穿过山坡上黑灯瞎火的居民区。经过一家住户时，他们看到车库的门半掩着，于是迪德用一部手机照明，钻了进去。
Inside the house, motion sensors alerted Markus Kaarma, 29, to an intruder’s presence. Two recent burglaries had put Mr. Kaarma and his young family on edge, his lawyer said, and he grabbed a shotgun from the dining room and rushed outside. He aimed into the garage and, according to court documents, fired four blasts into the dark. Mr. Dede’s body crumpled to the floor.
在这家住户的屋内，运动传感器惊动了29岁的马库斯·卡尔玛(Markus Kaarma)，他知道有人闯入了自己家。卡尔玛的律师说，这家人最近已经遭遇了两起入室盗窃，令卡尔玛和他年轻的家庭感到非常紧张。他从饭厅抓起一把散弹枪，冲到了屋外。法庭文件显示，他瞄准车库方向，向黑暗中开了四枪。迪德的身体瘫倒在地上。
While Mr. Kaarma has been charged with deliberate homicide, Mr. Dede’s death has set off an outcry an ocean away in Germany, exposing the cultural gulf between a European nation that tightly restricts firearms and a gun-loving Western state. In his defense, Mr. Kaarma is expected to turn to laws enacted in Montana five years ago that allow residents more legal protections in using lethal force to defend their homes.
虽然卡尔玛已经遭到故意杀人罪的指控，迪德之死却在德国引起一片哗然，这暴露了一个严格控枪的欧洲国家和一个爱好枪支的美国西部州之间存在的文化鸿沟。卡尔玛可能会在辩护中援引蒙大拿五年前颁布的一些法律，它们为使用致命武力保卫家园的居民提供了更多的法律保护。
German consular officials have called for justice. In an interview with a German news agency, Mr. Dede’s father criticized what he called an American cowboy culture as contributing to his son’s death. In Mr. Dede’s hometown, Hamburg, hundreds of his stunned relatives, friends and soccer teammates attended memorials, holding photos of Mr. Dede and unfurling a banner that read, “Our brother is dying while America is looking on.”
德国领事官员已经发出了伸张正义的呼吁。迪德的父亲在接受一家德国通讯社采访时，批评了他所说的“美国牛仔文化”，称儿子的死与此有关。在迪德的故乡汉堡，数百名处于震惊中的亲朋和足球队友参加了他的追悼会。他们举着迪德的照片，打出一幅标语，上面写着：“我们的兄弟濒临死地，而美国只是袖手旁观。”
In Montana, which has one of the country’s highest rates of gun ownership, the killing has renewed criticism of the state’s “castle doctrine” laws, which allow residents wider latitude to use force to defend their homes.
蒙大拿是全美枪支拥有率最高的州之一，这起杀人案已经招致了人们对该州“堡垒主义”法律的新一轮批评，根据这些法律，居民可以更加自由地使用武力来保卫自己的家园。
Nearly every state has a law on the books giving residents the legal right to defend their homes, but Montana is among several that have gone further. With backing from the National Rifle Association and the support of the state’s Democratic governor, Montana passed a stronger law in 2009 that placed the burden on prosecutors to rebut claims of self-defense.
几乎每个州都有成文法律，赋予居民保卫家园的合法权利，但有几个州走得更远一些，蒙大拿就是其中之一。在美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)和该州民主党州长的支持下，蒙大拿州2009年通过了一条更强硬的法律，让检察官反驳被告自卫变得更加困难。
Under the old laws, residents were justified in using force only if an assailant tried to enter their home in a “violent, riotous or tumultuous manner.” The new law eliminates that language and makes it clear that residents can use force if they reasonably believe it is necessary to prevent an assault on themselves or someone else in the home.
根据旧的法律，只有当攻击者试图“以暴力、骚乱或混乱的方式”进入自己的家园时，居民使用武力才是合理的。新的法律删除了这些词句，并且清楚地表明，居民只要有理由相信，防止自己或自己家中的人遭受攻击是必要之举，就可以使用武力。
These laws are expected to play a crucial role in the criminal case that has been filed against Mr. Kaarma, who is out on bond and is to be arraigned Monday. His lawyer, Paul Ryan, says Mr. Kaarma feared for his family’s safety and panicked that night.
这些法律可能会在卡尔玛遭受指控的刑事案件中发挥至关重要的作用。卡尔玛现在保释在外，下周一即将被传讯。他的律师保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)说，卡尔玛当晚很担心家人的安全，情绪颇为惊慌。
“He doesn’t know who’s there, what they’ve got, anything,” Mr. Ryan said. “He just didn’t know what was going on. Then he started to shoot.”
“他不知道谁在那里，他们手里有什么，什么都不知道，”瑞安说，“他完全不知道发生了什么事情。然后他开了枪。”
The shooting has also focused political attention on the castle laws. State Representative Ellie Boldman Hill, a Democrat from Missoula, has proposed repealing the recent changes, saying that the rules have fostered a shoot-first culture in Montana.
这起枪击案还引起了政界对“堡垒法”的关注。艾丽·博德曼·希尔(Ellie Boldman Hill)是来自米苏拉的民主党州众议员，她提出废除最近对法律进行的修改，称其已经在蒙大拿州培养了“先开枪再说”的文化。
“I’m a liberal legislator from Montana, and I have a handgun in my closet,” she said. “We are proud of our gun-owning tradition, but enough is enough. It’s like a license to kill. People are walking around exercising vigilante justice.”
“我是一名来自蒙大拿州的自由派立法者，我的衣柜里就有一把手枪，”她说，“我们为自己的持枪传统感到自豪，但是凡事要适可而止。这就像是杀人执照。人们正在私自执法。”
Steve Daines, a Republican congressman running for the United States Senate, recently told a veteran’s group he supported the laws as they stand, a view echoed by gun enthusiasts. His opponent, Senator John Walsh, a Democrat, supports them as well.
联邦众议员史蒂夫·戴恩斯(Steve Daines)正在竞选该州的联邦参议员席位。他最近告诉一个老兵团体，自己支持这些法规保持不变，附和了枪支爱好者的观点。他的对手、来自民主党的现任参议员约翰·沃尔什(John Walsh)也持支持态度。
Gary Marbut, president of the Montana Shooting Sports Association, said, “I think it’s working just fine.”
蒙大拿射击运动协会(Montana Shooting Sports Association)会长加里·马布特(Gary Marbut)说，“我认为目前这样挺好。”
In times of emergency in Montana, Mr. Marbut said, the police are often an hour’s drive away. “Self-defense is a natural right. It is part of the nature of being a free person that your life has value and you can protect that life. It’s just not going to work to change Montana to a Chicago-style culture.”
马布特称，在蒙大拿，出现紧急情况时，警察往往在一个小时车程之外。“自卫是天赋人权。自由个体的生命拥有价值，而且你可以保护自己的生命，这属于一种天性。把蒙大拿变成芝加哥式的文化是不会奏效的。”
But here in Missoula, a liberal college town ringed by snow-capped peaks, Mr. Dede’s classmates and neighbors as well as other residents have expressed sympathy for him and tried to distance their community from the bloody events of that night. Scores of people attended a vigil for Mr. Dede, and ribbons bearing the red, gold and black of the German flag hang around nearly every mailbox post in his neighborhood, a winding subdivision where deer leap through backyards and children play driveway basketball at dusk.
不过，在雪山环绕的自由派大学城米苏拉，迪德的同学、邻居和其他一些居民表达了对他的同情，并且努力将自己的社区与当晚的流血事件区分开来。数十人参加了迪德的烛光夜悼，在他生前所在社区，几乎每个邮箱上都系着有德国国旗红黄黑三色的彩带。这是一个蜿蜒崎岖的住宅小区，鹿会跳过人们的后院，黄昏时分孩子们在家门口打篮球。
“This is not us,” said Randy Smith, one of Mr. Dede’s host parents. “It’s not our neighborhood, it’s not our country. It’s not Montana.”
“我们不是这样的，”迪德寄宿家庭的父亲兰迪·史密斯(Randy Smith)说，“我们的社区、我们的国家、我们蒙大拿不是这样的。”
The police are investigating whether Mr. Kaarma was under the influence of marijuana or other substances at the time of the shooting. Investigators found a glass jar of marijuana in his kitchen pantry, according to a search-warrant application filed in the case. A neighbor also told the police that Mr. Kaarma smoked marijuana in the garage, and that marijuana and marijuana pipes had been stolen in one of the earlier burglaries.
警方正在调查，卡尔玛开枪的时候，是否处在大麻或其他毒品的影响下。根据本案提起的搜查令申请，调查人员在他的厨房储藏室中发现了一罐大麻。一个邻居也告诉警察，卡尔玛曾在车库里吸食大麻，而且在之前的一次入室行窃案中，大麻和大麻烟斗曾经被盗。
Investigators have tested Mr. Kaarma’s blood for drugs, but the results have not been released. Mr. Ryan said that Mr. Kaarma had also been tested for alcohol use after the shooting, and that those results were negative.  
调查人员对卡尔玛进行了血液毒品测试，不过尚未公布结果。瑞安表示，枪击事件后，卡尔玛还进行了酒精测试，结果呈阴性。