BERLIN — With time running ever shorter for an accord to ease Greece's debt crisis and reported cash crunch, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Monday sought at least to take the sting out of venomous exchanges between Athens and Berlin in recent weeks.
柏林——鉴于用来达成一项缓解希腊债务危机及潜在现金短缺问题的协议的时间越来越少，希腊总理亚历克西斯·齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)和德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)在周一试图至少在言语上缓解最近几周雅典和柏林之间的恶意。
It was unclear whether Merkel, who prepared to receive Tsipras with military honors at her gleaming, modern Chancellery, would reach any understanding with him on the pressing question of Greek debt. Four weeks after undertaking to do so, Athens has yet to present a list of detailed overhauls that it would implement to get the next tranche of credit from its three main creditors — the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which is acting on behalf of the 18 other members of the eurozone.
默克尔准备在她那光鲜而现代的总理官邸用阅兵仪式接待齐普拉斯。但尚不清楚的是，她是否会在希腊债务这个紧迫的问题上与齐普拉斯达成谅解。在做出保证四周后，雅典仍未拿出一份详细的改革清单。希腊需要实施相关改革，才能从其三大债主——国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)、欧洲中央银行(European Central Bank)和代表欧元区另外18个成员国的欧盟委员会(European Commission)——那里获得下一笔贷款。
Tsipras wrote to Merkel on March 15 highlighting Greece's looming cash crunch, the Greek government spokesman, Gavriil Sakellaridis, told Greek television on Monday. He said the letter had also been sent to other European leaders, including President François Hollande of France and Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission.
希腊政府发言人加夫里尔·萨克拉里迪斯(Gavriil Sakellaridis)在周一对希腊电视台表示，齐普拉斯于3月15日致函默克尔，强调希腊即将面临的现金短缺问题。他表示，这封信也寄给了其他一些欧洲领导人，包括法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(Francois Hollande)和欧盟委员会主席让-克洛德·容克 (Jean-Claude Juncker)。
The letter, first reported by The Financial Times, prompted a three-hour, late-night meeting last week in Brussels between Tsipras and the German, French and European leaders, Sakellaridis said. Tsipras “was listened to” in Brussels, he said, adding that Athens was not joking when it said it would soon face a stark choice between paying state salaries and pensions, or paying creditors.
《金融时报》(The Financial Times)最先报道了这封函件。萨克拉里迪斯透露，此信促使齐普拉斯和德国、法国以及欧盟领导人上周在布鲁塞尔举行了一次长达三小时的深夜会谈。他称与会者在布鲁塞尔“听取了”齐普拉斯的意见，并表示，希腊说自己很快将会面临是发放公务员薪资和养老金，还是还债的严峻选择时，并不是在开玩笑。
“It's not a threat, it's reality,” Sakellaridis said.
“这并非威胁，而是事实，”萨克拉里迪斯说。
In Berlin, officials would confirm only that a letter from Tsipras had been received “in recent days.” Merkel said last week that she would not be able to reach a final agreement with Tsipras because that role belonged to the eurozone and the creditors. “No one should expect solutions” from Monday's talks, her spokesman, Steffen Seibert, reiterated Monday.
在柏林，官员们只愿证实“最近几天”收到了一封来自齐普拉斯的信件。默克尔上周表示，她无法与齐普拉斯达成最终协议，因为那项工作属于欧元区和债主。她的发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)周一重申，“谁都不应指望”周一的会谈能得出“解决方案”。
Verbal hostilities have mounted in recent weeks, with particular bitterness lacing the remarks of each country's finance ministers. Last week, a controversy swirled over whether the Greek minister, Yanis Varoufakis, had made a provocative one-fingered gesture at Germany at a conference in Croatia two years ago.
近几周，双方的口水仗逐步升级，两国财长的言论格外尖刻。上周，两年前的一起事件又掀起了争议：在克罗地亚的一次会议上，希腊财长亚尼斯·瓦鲁法基斯(Yanis Varoufakis)疑似对德国做出了竖中指的挑衅动作。
More gravely, the question of whether Germany should pay more reparations to Greece for Nazi war crimes and forced loans has flared, with some leading figures on the German left ready to consider such payments. The government in Berlin, a coalition of center-right and center-left, says the matter is closed.
更严肃的是，冒出了德国是否应该为纳粹的战争罪行及强迫贷款而向希腊支付更多赔款的问题。德国左翼的一些头面人物愿意考虑这类赔偿，而由中右翼和中左翼组成的联合政府则表示，这件事已有定论。
The magazine Der Spiegel summed it all up with a cover this week superimposing a picture of Merkel on an old photograph of Nazi commanders at the Parthenon in Athens under the headline, “The German Übermacht.” In an accompanying article, it argued that fellow Europeans increasingly see Germany, which is Europe's biggest economy, and its leaders as dominant. “Yet they are rather a weak than a strong hegemon,” Der Spiegel said of the Germans.
本周，德国杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)用一个封面对事情进行了概括。封面上，在《德国说了算》(The German Übermacht)的标题下，默克尔的身影被叠映在一群纳粹指挥官在雅典帕特农神庙拍摄的老照片上。杂志在配发的一篇文章中称，欧洲其他地方的人日渐认为，欧洲最大的经济体德国及其领导人占据着主导地位。“但他们是一个软弱而非强大的霸主，”《明镜》周刊这样评价德国人。
After the weeks of mounting acrimony, the foreign ministers of Greece and Germany set a friendlier tone Sunday night, sitting down for a three-hour dinner described by the German Foreign Ministry spokesman, Martin Schäfer, as “very pleasant, very intensive.”
在经历了尖刻言论有增无减的数周后，希腊和德国两国外长在周日晚上定下了较为友好的基调，坐下来举行了一次长达三小时的晚餐会。德国外交部发言人马丁·谢弗(Martin Schäfer)表示，此次会面“非常愉快、非常高效。”
The ministers, who studied at the same university in Giessen in western Germany, spoke German throughout, as did several of the other officials present, Schäfer said. Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier stressed afterward that, “We cannot allow the strong foundation of German-Greek relations to be hollowed out by undoubtedly big and difficult questions that we in Europe must solve.”
两位外长均曾在德国西部吉森的同一所大学就读。谢弗表示，二人从始至终以德语交流，在场的其他几名官员也是。德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)后来强调，“我们不能允许德希两国关系的坚实基础被问题掏空。那无疑是些艰巨的问题，而我们欧洲必须加以解决。”
In a blow to hard-pressed Greek banks, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, said on Monday that Greece had not yet met conditions that would allow its debt to again be used to secure central bank loans.
欧洲央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)周一称，希腊尚未满足再次利用债务获得央行贷款的条件。这对重压之下的希腊银行是又一次的打击。
In February, the European Central Bank stopped allowing Greek banks to use their holdings of Greek government debt as collateral for cheap loans. The central bank cited statements by Greek officials suggesting they would no longer honor bailout conditions.
今年2月，欧洲央行不再允许希腊银行利用所持有的希腊政府债券作为获得低息贷款的担保。欧洲央行援引希腊官员的说法称，它们不再符合获得救援的条件。
Instead, Greek banks have been forced to draw on a separate line of credit that carries a higher interest rate.
于是，希腊的银行被迫动用另一个利率更高的信用额度。
The European Central Bank will start accepting Greek debt again “as soon as the conditions for successful conclusion of the program under existing arrangements are there,” Draghi said during an appearance before a committee of the European Parliament in Brussels.
德拉吉在布鲁塞尔面对欧洲议会的一个委员会发表演讲时称，“一旦满足了成功结算现有计划的条件，”欧洲央行将再次开始接受希腊的债券。