BERLIN — With record numbers of migrants pouring across the Hungarian border and rushing west, Germany, the country that had been the most welcoming in Europe, suddenly ordered temporary border restrictions on Sunday that cut off rail travel from Austria and instituted spot checks on cars.
柏林——随着人数创纪录的难民跨越匈牙利边界，大举向西前进，最欢迎难民的欧洲国家德国周日突然下令，暂时对边境进行管制，切断了来自奥地利的铁路运输，并对入境汽车进行抽查。
It took the action just one day before European ministers were scheduled to meet in Brussels to discuss a plan to disperse tens of thousands of refugees across Europe, with many governments, particularly in Eastern Europe, bristling at being forced to accept more migrants than they wish to take.
德国采取这个行动的第二天，就是欧洲各国的部长们计划在布鲁塞尔举行会议的日子。他们将讨论一项计划，将目前的数万难民分散到欧洲各国。很多国家的政府，特别是东欧国家，对于被迫接收更多难民感到不满。
The crisis is the latest, and perhaps thorniest, test of Europe’s willingness to work together to solve big problems amid rising populist, nationalist and Euro-skeptic movements across the continent.
民粹主义、民族主义和欧洲怀疑论在欧洲大陆不断加剧之际，欧洲是否愿意携手合作解决重大问题？此时的难民危机是最新的一场考验，也许是最棘手的一场考验。
The move by the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel was seen as a strong sign — if not an outright message — to other European Union members that Germany was growing weary of shouldering so much of the burden for Europe’s largest humanitarian crisis in decades without more help and cooperation from other nations.
由总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)领导的政府采取的这一举动，被看作是向其他欧盟成员国传达的一个强烈信号——甚至可以说是明确的表态——德国肩负着几十年来欧洲最大的人道主义危机的负担，却没有得到其他国家更多的帮助与合作，对此德国已经感到厌倦。
For others, though, the concern was that if even the richest and most powerful nation in the 28-member union was showing signs of hitting its limit, how would Europe be able to find a path through this seemingly ceaseless refugee emergency?
但是对于其他国家来说，值得担心的问题是，如果连欧盟28国中最富有和最强大的国家，都显示出了达到极限的迹象，那么欧洲怎么能为这场看来无休止的难民危机找到出路呢？ When word of the new restrictions made the rounds at the main station in Salzburg, Austria, the last major stop on the rail journey to Germany, hundreds of migrants were taken off the blocked trains and to a garage nearby, the German Press Agency said.
奥地利萨尔茨堡是前往德国的列车旅程中最后一个大型车站，限制边界的新消息在那里传开，数以百计的难民被带下了受到阻拦的列车，前往附近的一个车库，德意志新闻社(German Press Agency)报道。
A simple sign was posted on the station’s information boards: “No railway service by order of German authorities due to the German migrant crisis.”
车站的告示牌上张贴着一个简单的告示：“由于德国发生难民危机，德国当局下令停止铁路服务”。
Interior Minister Thomas de Mazière said that it was “desperately necessary” for Germany to limit the number of people coming into the country and “reinstate an orderly entry process” after two weeks that left the country straining to accommodate the new arrivals.
德国内政部长托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)说，德国限制进入该国的人数是“极有必要”，两周以来，该国一直承受着接纳新来者的压力，现在需要“恢复有序的入境流程”。
Although one of the proudest European achievements of recent decades was passport-free travel between most member nations, the rules allow the reinstatement of border restrictions in cases of crisis and national security, he said.
欧盟大多数成员国之间无需护照就可以自由通行，这是欧洲人近几十年来最值得骄傲的成就之一。但相关规则也允许在发生危机时，以及在国家安全遭受威胁的情况下，恢复对边境的管制，他说。
“This measure is also a signal to Europe” that more needs to be done, and quickly, Mr. de Mazière said. “Introducing temporary border controls will not solve the whole problem,” he said.
“这个措施也向欧洲发出的一个信号，”大家需要做更多的工作，而且需要赶紧做，德梅齐埃说。“临时边境管制并不能解决全部问题，”他说。
Also on Sunday, Ms. Merkel spoke with Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European Commission, who proposed a plan last week to relocate 160,000 migrants who are bottling up in the main front-line nations of Greece, Italy and Hungary.
同样在周日，默克尔与欧盟委员会主席让-克洛德·容克(Jean-Claude Juncker)进行了交谈。容克上周提出了一个计划，希望重新安置16万名滞留在希腊、意大利和匈牙利这些主要边境国家的难民。
The proposal, to be discussed Monday in Brussels by the bloc’s home affairs ministers, includes 40,000 migrants covered under an earlier plan that collapsed when several member nations refused to accept mandatory quotas of refugees, as well as 120,000 more.
欧盟各国内政部长订于周一在布鲁塞尔讨论的提议，涉及之前计划接收的4万名移民和另外12万名难民，当时几个成员国拒绝按强制配额接收难民，导致计划破裂。 Leaders of several countries, including Poland and the Czech Republic, have said they still object to any mandatory quotas, but may be willing to accept more new arrivals as long as it is voluntary.
波兰、捷克等几个国家的领导人表示，他们仍然反对任何强制配额，但如果实施自愿接收的政策，或许会接收更多新抵达的难民。
In announcing Germany’s new border restrictions, Mr. de Mazière also called for the creation of what he called “waiting zones” along the union’s external borders where migrants could be registered and wait until they were granted refugee status and assigned to a country.
德梅齐埃宣布德国采取新的边境管制举措时，还呼吁在欧盟外围的边境地带建立“等候区”，让移民在那里注册、等候，直到他们获得难民身份，并被分配到某个国家。
Hungary’s government, which has taken a particularly hard line during the crisis, reacted warmly to Germany’s announcement on Sunday.
在此次危机中态度极其强硬的匈牙利政府，对德国在周日宣布的计划给予了热情回应。
“Hungary understands Germany’s decision, and Hungary is standing by Germany,” Peter Szijjarto, the country’s foreign minister, said at a news conference.
匈牙利外长西雅尔多·彼得(Peter Szijjarto)在新闻发布会上表示，“匈牙利理解德国的决定，并支持德国。”
He said Hungary welcomed Berlin’s decision, which he described as defending German and European values, adding that Hungary made a new proposal of its own on Sunday: calling for a Continent-wide effort to defend the borders of Greece, the first stop on the migrant path.
他表示，匈牙利对柏林的决定表示欢迎，他称该决定捍卫了德国和欧洲的价值观，并表示匈牙利在周日提出了新提议：呼吁全欧洲共同努力保卫希腊边界，那里是移民路径上的第一站。
The migrants who eventually make their way to Hungary usually begin their journey into Europe with a short, but often perilous, sea crossing from Turkey to one of the nearer Greek islands.
最终进入匈牙利的移民，通常通过距离短但很危险的跨海之旅，从土耳其前往最近的一座属于希腊的岛屿，然后进入欧洲。
If European leaders could close off that flow, Hungarian officials said Sunday, the numbers moving through the Balkans into Central Europe would dwindle to a trickle. Advocates for refugees say that those determined to reach Europe will only find other paths.
匈牙利官员在周日表示，如果欧洲领导人能够封锁这一入口，从巴尔干半岛进入中欧的移民人数会大幅减少。难民权益倡导者表示，那些决定来到欧洲的难民肯定会寻找其他途径。
Just how dangerous that sea crossing can be was evident again Sunday when the Greek Coast Guard recovered the bodies of 34 migrants, including 15 children, after their boat capsized in the Aegean Sea. An additional 68 were rescued, and 30 others managed to swim to the nearby island of Farmakonisi.
跨海之旅的危险性周日再次突显出来。移民乘坐的船只在爱琴海沉没后，希腊海岸警卫队找到了34具难民尸体，其中包括15名儿童。还有68人被救，另有30人最终游到了附近的法尔马科尼西岛。
The land portion of the journey offers dangers, too. The Austrian authorities said they saved 42 people on Sunday from a refrigerated truck near the German border, and arrested two smugglers. Just last month, 71 people were found dead in the back of such a truck near the Austrian-Hungarian border.
陆地上的旅程也充满了危险。奥地利当局表示，他们周日从德国边界附近的一辆冷藏车中救出了42名难民，并逮捕了两名蛇头。就在上个月，官方在匈牙利与奥地利边境附近的一辆卡车后部发现了71具尸体。
Germany has said it expects 800,000 migrants by year’s end, but has indicated up to now that it can handle the newcomers, and even welcomed their addition to its aging work force.
德国曾表示，预期在年底前接收80万移民，但该国还表示，目前能够应付新来的移民，甚至还欢迎他们进入德国日渐老龄化的劳动力队伍。
But the numbers arriving have continued to grow, and Germany’s humanitarian network is wobbling under the strain.
但到达德国的难民人数不断增加，德国的人道主义网络在重压之下摇摇欲坠。
On Saturday, around 12,000 migrants arrived in Munich, with 4,000 more by Sunday afternoon. More beds are needed, Munich officials said.
周六，大约1.2万名移民抵达慕尼黑，截至周日下午，又有4000多人抵达。慕尼黑的官员表示，他们需要更多床位。
And more migrants are on the way. Before Germany closed off rail traffic from Austria, Austrian officials said 500 migrants were arriving every hour at the main border crossing between Hungary and Austria, with 7,000 crossing that day before 3 p.m.
还有更多移民正在路上。在德国切断与奥地利的铁路运输之前，奥地利官员表示，每小时有500名移民抵达匈牙利与奥地利之间主要的过境通道，截至当天下午3点，跨越边境的难民达到了7000名。
Abdelkahar Sherzad, a 28-year-old from Afghanistan, heard about Germany’s new restrictions only after waiting four days for a train out of Budapest’s Keleti station.
28岁的阿卜杜卡哈尔·谢尔扎德(Abdelkahar Sherzad)来自阿富汗。他在布达佩斯东站外等了四天后，就听说德国将要实施新的限制举措。