BERLIN — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany faced the greatest crisis of her career Monday after negotiations to form a new government collapsed, shaking a country that is Europe’s political and economic anchor.
柏林——周一，新一届政府组阁谈判失败后，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)面临其政治生涯中的最大危机，作为欧洲政治、经济之锚的德国出现动摇。
The breakdown abruptly raised the prospect of new elections in Germany. It came less than three months after the last elections seemed to assure that Merkel, an icon of Western democracy and values, would remain Germany’s leader for a fourth term.
谈判的失败陡然增加了德国重新举行大选的可能。在不到三个月前的上一次大选中，被视为西方民主和价值标杆的默克尔似乎稳坐“四连任”总理之位。
The chancellor said she remained hopeful about forming a majority government. But if forced to choose, Merkel said, she would prefer to go through new elections rather than try to lead a minority government.
默克尔表示，她仍然认为组建多数派政府是有希望的。但如果一定要选，默克尔表示，相对于组建少数派政府，她宁愿重新举行大选。
“I don’t want to say never, but I am very skeptical, and believe that new elections would be the better way forward,” the chancellor told the public broadcaster ARD.
“我不会说绝不，但我表示怀疑。我相信，重新大选会是一个更好的选择，”默克尔总理对德国电视一台ARD说。
At a time when the European Union is facing pressing problems, the possibility of political instability in a normally reliable Germany sent tremors through the continent.
在欧盟正面临紧迫问题的时刻，向来稳定的德国出现政治变数，给欧洲大陆带来了震荡。
The collapse of talks reflected the deep reluctance of Merkel’s conservative bloc and prospective coalition partners — the ecologist-minded Greens and pro-business Free Democrats — to compromise over key positions. The Free Democrats quit the talks late Sunday, citing what they called an atmosphere of insincerity and mistrust.
谈判的失败反映了默克尔领导的保守阵营与可能的盟友——关注生态问题的绿党(Greens)和亲商的自由民主党(Free Democrats)在关键立场上有深刻分歧，未能达成妥协。自由民主党于上周日晚间退出谈判，并指出，他们认为谈话氛围无诚意、无信任。
“There is no coalition of the willing to form a government,” said Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff, director of the Berlin office of the German Marshall Fund. “We’re facing a protracted period of political immobility.”
“没有一个想组建政府的联盟，”德国马歇尔基金会(German Marshall Fund)柏林分会主管托马斯·克莱内-布洛克霍夫(Thomas Kleine-Brockhoff)说。“我们正面临着长期的政治僵局。”
Calling new elections is not a straightforward procedure in Germany. Written with the unstable governments of the 1920s and 1930s and collapse of the Weimar Republic in mind, the German Constitution includes several procedural hurdles that would ensure a prolonged and difficult process.
在德国，想要重新大选并非易事。有20、30年代政府动荡和魏玛共和国倾覆的前车之鉴，德国宪法引入了多项程序障碍，以确保该过程持久且困难。
Merkel met in private Monday with President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who as head of state is charged with trying to break the deadlock in coalition talks. He could appoint a chancellor to lead a minority government or, failing that, set in motion the process for new elections.
周一，默克尔私下会见了德国总统弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)，作为总统，他有责任在联盟谈判中打破僵局。他可以指任新总理领导一个少数派政府，也可以不组建少数派政府，而是进入推动新一轮大选的程序。
Financial markets reacted calmly to the turmoil in Berlin, calculating that the German economy could power through the uncertainty. After opening lower, the DAX index of major stocks closed the day higher. The euro fell slightly.
出于对德国经济抵御不确定性的信心，柏林的混乱没有给金融市场造成多少冲击。虽然当日股市低开，但主要股指德国DAX指数收高，欧元有小幅回落。