SEYNES-LES-ALPES, France —  As they confront the grim task of recovering 150 bodies and the pulverized wreckage of the German jetliner that plunged into a mountainside near this village on Tuesday, rescue workers are facing daunting challenges and scenes unsettling even to trained emergency personnel.
法国阿尔卑斯山小镇塞讷——随着搜寻工作的开始，救援人员们面临着严峻的挑战，他们要找回150具遗体，还要收回周二坠落在这个小镇附近山腰上的德国客机的粉碎残骸，一些场景就连对训练有素的人来说也非常令人不安。
The crash site is inaccessible by road or even foot, making helicopter flights the only way in. Most of the area is covered by extremely steep hillside, making landing difficult and forcing emergency personnel and investigators to be lowered carefully to the ground. So steep is the landscape that workers are concerned about aircraft parts and human remains sliding down the mountain.
飞机失事的地点没有道路，步行也很难到达，只有直升机能进去。残骸所覆盖的大片面积位于极其陡峭的山坡上，飞机无法降落，救援和调查人员需要从直升机上被小心翼翼地放落到地面。山坡如此之陡峭，以至于工作人员担心飞机部件和人体遗骸会从山破上滑下来。
Xavier Roy, the coordinator for emergency personnel, said after flying over the site that he was surprised by the absence of big pieces of wreckage, an engine or a large piece of the fuselage, typically visible after a crash.
负责协调应急人员的泽维尔·罗伊(Xavier Roy)说，他从失事地点上空飞过时，令他惊讶的是，没有看到大块的飞机残骸、发动机，或大块机身，这些东西通常在失事后可见。
“Here, we are not seeing anything except bits and pieces,” Mr. Roy said. “The largest piece we have seen so far is the equivalent of a car door.”
“在这里，我们除了零碎的东西，什么都没看到，”罗伊说。“我们迄今所看到的最大一块差不多有汽车门那么大。”
He said that the initial rescue workers who reached the scene on Tuesday had scoured the area looking for movement or sounds from any potential survivors, but that they had not heard or seen anything to suggest that anyone might have lived through the crash.
他说，周二最早到达现场的救援人员在该地区对任何来自可能生还者的活动迹象或声音进行了彻底的寻找，但他们没有听到或看到任何东西能让他们认为，有人活过了飞机的坠毁。
On Wednesday, as early morning fog gave way to a cold, gray overcast, helicopters roared in and out of the staging area toward the crash site, where emergency personnel were placing flags to mark the locations of the victims.
周三，随着清晨的大雾被寒冷、灰色的多云天空所取代，直升机轰鸣着在集结地与出事地点之间飞来飞去，救援人员正在出事地点放置小旗，以标志遇难者的位置。
Investigators were also combing through the wreckage in the hopes of finding the second of the two so-called black boxes, the flight data recorder. The recorder should contain a wealth of information about the flight and the condition of the Airbus A320 during its final, eight-minute descent from its cruising altitude of 38,000 feet en route to Düsseldorf, Germany, from Barcelona, Spain, on Tuesday morning.
调查人员也在残骸中仔细寻找所谓黑匣子中的第二个，也就是飞行数据记录器。飞行记录器中应该有大量关于飞行和飞机状况的数据，包括这架A320型空中客车从其38000英尺(约合12千米)的巡航高度坠落的最后八分钟，当时飞机正在从西班牙巴塞罗那飞往德国杜塞尔多夫的途中。
Seynes-les-Alpes, a village of 1,400 inhabitants in a valley a three-hour drive northwest of Nice, found itself overrun. Emergency personnel, journalists and security services are all on hand for the scheduled visit later on Wednesday of President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain.
阿尔卑斯小镇塞讷有1400名居民，位于尼斯西北部的一个山谷里，距尼斯有三个小时的车程，镇子里已人满为患。紧急救援人员、记者以及保安服务人员都来到这里，等待着法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)、德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)，以及西班牙首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)周三晚些时候的到来。
The authorities were also making plans to help families of some of the victims travel to the village. With hotel rooms in the region scarce, some residents have offered to take in the victims’ families, said the mayor, Francis Hermitte. “But we don’t know the needs of these families, it will depend on when they get the bodies,” he said.
当局也在计划帮助一些遇难者的家属前来这里。镇长弗朗西斯·埃尔米特(Francis Hermitte)说，由于当地酒店客房稀缺，一些居民已表示愿意让遇难者家属住在家里。“但我们不清楚这些家属需要什么，这将取决于他们什么时候能得到遗体，”他说。
The village set up a temporary chapel in a school gymnasium.
小镇已在学校体育馆建了一个临时教堂。