NEW YORK — Mystery solved? A pair of artists in Berlin said they were the ones who pulled off the stunt of the summer, hoisting two big all-white flags atop the Brooklyn Bridge last month, swapping them for the usual red, white and blue.
纽约——谜底已经解开？柏林的两位艺术家说，夏天的那场表演是他们所为。上个月，他们换下布鲁克林大桥(Brooklyn Bridge)顶端，红白蓝三色的星条旗，而是挂起两面巨大的全白旗帜。
When the flags appeared, rumors flapped: It was a prank or a grave security breach.
这两面旗子出现后，流言纷纷传来：这是个恶作剧，或者是严重的安保疏漏。
But the artists, Mischa Leinkauf and Matthias Wermke, say the flags — with hand-stitched stars and stripes, all white — had nothing to do with terrorism. In a series of phone interviews, they explained that they only wanted to celebrate “the beauty of public space” and the great American bridge whose German-born engineer, John Roebling, died in 1869 on July 22, the day the white flags appeared.
但是，艺术家米沙·莱因考夫(Mischa Leinkauf)和马蒂亚斯·韦姆克(Matthias Wermke)说，这两面旗帜——上面是手工缝制的星星和横条，全部是白色——与恐怖主义无关。他们在一系列电话采访中解释道，他们只想向“公共空间的美丽”和这座伟大的美国桥梁致敬。这座大桥的设计师约翰·罗布林(John Roebling)生于德国，于1869年7月22日逝世，这两面白色旗帜就出现在7月22日。
The artists decided recently to explain themselves, and provided slightly cryptic pictures and videos of the flags, seemingly shot at night from atop the bridge. They point to other such projects they’ve done in far-flung places that haven’t made waves, and they claimed to be somewhat taken aback by the reception here.
最近，这两名艺术家决定亲口解释，并提供了旗子的一些照片和视频。这些照片和视频稍微有些模糊，似乎是夜里在桥顶上拍摄的。他们谈到了在一些偏僻的地方实行过的类似活动，并表示有点被这里的反应吓到了，因为以前的活动并未引起轩然大波。
Among other things, the incident, as they describe it, suggests an abiding cultural gap, even in this era of globalization.
正如他们所说的，这件事表明了很多问题，其中包括：即便是在当今这个全球化的时代，文化鸿沟依然持久存在。
“This was not an anti-American statement,” Mr. Wermke insisted.
“这不是反美声明，”韦姆克坚称。
Mr. Leinkauf added: “From our Berlin background, we were a little surprised that it got the reaction it did. We really didn’t intend to embarrass the police.”
莱因考夫接着说：“我们是柏林来的，事情引发的反应让我们有些惊讶。我们真的无意让警方难堪。”
Speaking by telephone from Germany, the artists cited Gordon Matta-Clark, who famously climbed the Clocktower Building in Lower Manhattan in 1974, among other American artists whose uncommissioned actions in and around the streets of New York inspired them.
从德国接受电话采访时，这两名艺术家说到了因1974年攀爬曼哈顿下城(Lower Manhattan)的钟楼大厦(Clocktower Building)而出名的戈登·马塔-克拉克(Gordon Matta-Clark)，以及其他一些美国艺术家。那些艺术家在纽约街头及附近的即兴行为，给他们提供了灵感。
“We saw the bridge, which was designed by a German, trained in Berlin, who came to America because it was the place to fulfill his dreams, as the most beautiful expression of a great public space,” Mr. Leinkauf said. “That beauty was what we were trying to capture.”
“那座桥的设计者是德国人，在柏林接受教育，后来去了美国，因为那里是实现他梦想的地方。我们认为，那座桥是对一个伟大的公共空间最美的诠释，”莱因考夫说。“而那种美正是我们一直努力想要体现的。”
They volunteered that the flag project transpired roughly between 3 and 5 a.m. on July 22. They said they carried the white flags in backpacks up the climbing cables that workers and the police use to reach the towers, and did not see security cameras. They would not say whether other people were involved.
他们主动交待说，换旗行动发生在7月22日凌晨3点到5点之间。他们说，他们把白旗放在背包里，通过供工人和警察使用的攀登缆绳爬到了塔上，没看到有安保摄像头。他们拒绝说出是否还有其他人参与。
They had made the flags themselves, they said, spending more than a week hand-sewing them with two kinds of white fabric, alternating the fabrics to make stripes, cutting out holes for the stars from one fabric and filling them in with the other. At about 10 by 19 feet, the white flags approximated the size of the American flags on the bridge.
两人说，旗子是他们花了一周多时间，用两种白布亲手缝制的，他们交替使用两种布料，做出了条纹的效果，在一种布料上掏出星星形状的窟窿，再用另一种布料补上。白旗的尺寸大约是19英尺长（约5.8米）10英尺宽，和桥上挂的美国国旗尺寸相仿。
The artists stressed that when they removed those flags, they ceremonially folded them, “following the United States flag code,” Mr. Leinkauf said. The flags will be returned, he promised. As with their other projects, he stressed, the plan was always to come forward. “We always face the consequences,” he said. “This is part of the work, to have an open discussion. We just needed a little time to decide how to respond to the reaction.” They are now considering legal advice.
两位艺术家强调说，他们取下国旗后，举行了一个折叠国旗的小小仪式，“遵守了美国的国旗法规”，莱因考夫说。他承诺会把旗子还回去。莱因考夫强调说，就像其他项目一样，他们本来就打算站出来承认一切。“我们都会承担后果，”他说。“这是作品的一部分：引发一场公开的讨论。我们只是需要一点时间，来决定如何对公众的反响进行回应。”他们目前正考虑进行法律咨询。
Their website suggests that for roughly a decade, Mr. Leinkauf, 37, and Mr. Wermke, 35, have focused on the often illegal margins of public spaces. “Places people pass through or pass by, but don’t usually notice, like tunnels and bridges or the tops of buildings,” Mr. Leinkauf elaborated.
莱因考夫现年37岁，韦姆克35岁，他们的网站显示，二人在约10年时间里一直在关注公共空间的边缘地带，而这些地方常常是禁区。“人们从这些地方穿过或经过，但通常不会留意，比如隧道、桥梁或建筑物顶部，”莱因考夫解释说。
Their projects (made public through films and exhibitions, mostly after completing the relevant escapades) are intended to draw attention to these sites and to the ambiguities and fragilities of public space. “Our work looks dangerous, but it’s not about that,” Mr. Leinkauf added. “We plan carefully and reduce risk to an absolute minimum.”
他们的活动（在他们完成冒险行为后，多数活动会通过视频和展览进行公开）旨在引起人们对这些地点，以及公共空间的种种模糊性和脆弱性的关注。“我们的活动看起来很危险，但那不是我们的目的，”莱因考夫接着说。“我们会进行非常周密的规划，把风险降到绝对最低。”
The two have photographs showing that they have scaled buildings and bridges from Tokyo to Vienna, and even attached balloons to the cables on the Brooklyn Bridge in 2007, which went unremarked at the time. That’s when they say they cooked up the flag idea.
两人的一些照片显示，从东京到维也纳，他们曾爬上许多城市的建筑物和大桥，2007年，他们甚至把几个气球系在了布鲁克林大桥的电缆上，这件事当时并没有引起关注。他们说，就是在那时，他们萌生了这个挂旗的想法。