PASSAU, Germany — As Germany struggles with a surge of migrants and has at least temporarily clamped down on new arrivals, Nematullah Jasor may serve as a symbol of the way forward.
德国，帕绍（PASSAU）-就在德国应对汹涌而至的难民潮，收紧入境人数的时候，内马图拉·贾西尔的故事或许可对前方之路有所启迪作用。
One afternoon last week, Mr. Jasor, 22, walked with a light step around the cavernous factory floor of ZF Friedrichshafen, a large German industrial company that recently hired him as an apprentice in this small town on the border with Austria that has become a major landing point for migrants.
上周的某日下午，22岁的贾西尔迈着轻快的脚步环视了ZF Friedrichshafen的厂房。这家坐落于德奥边境小镇帕绍的大型工业公司最近雇佣了这位难民小伙子作学徒。目前，大批难民涌向帕绍。
Just a few years earlier, Mr. Jasor faced threats on his life back home in Afghanistan, where Taliban insurgents had threatened to kill him if he did not join the group and stop his computer science studies at the local university.
几年前，贾西尔在家乡阿富汗受到塔利班的威胁，塔利班扬言如果他不中断当地大学的计算机科学学业加入该组织就杀掉他。
After learning German quickly and proving to be a skilled employee, Mr. Jasor is on track for a permanent job once he completes his apprenticeship in making machine and auto parts. More than any other European country now contending with an influx of migrants and refugees, Germany — with Europe’s biggest economy, an aging population and more than a half-million jobs currently unfilled — sees the migration wave as not only a challenge but an opportunity.
贾西尔短期内学了德文，又有一技之长，一旦结束机械和汽车零备件学徒期， 就可获得一份固定工作。作为欧洲最大的经济体，德国对移民和难民潮的认知有别于其他主张接收他们的欧盟国家，认为危机中蕴藏着机会。这与德国社会老龄化及超过50万工作席位空缺有关。
“Germany will benefit from people like Nematullah,” said Roland Biebl, Mr. Jasor’s supervisor. “It’s in everyone’s interest to integrate them.”
贾西尔的领班罗兰·毕博表示“德国受益于像尼内马图拉这样的人，让他们融入德国社会对谁都好。”
Although Germany has temporarily placed tight controls on the border across the country’s south to stem the tide of people seeking asylum, the government is intent on assimilating those it lets in. With at least 800,000 migrants expected this year alone, Chancellor Angela Merkel and the nation’s biggest businesses have been mounting a vocal campaign to get migrants into jobs as a way of quickly integrating them into German society. Rather than risk letting the migrants become wards of the state, the idea is to help as many as possible start contributing to the economy.
尽管德国临时对其南部边境进行管控，缓解大批避难者的涌入，但政府打算消化那些已到人士。预计今年一年至少有80万的难民涌入，总理默克尔和主要大企业积极呼吁让难民就业，以此快速融入德国社会。与其说只收容他们日后成为负担，不如尽可能帮助更多的人有机会开始效力于德国。
Advocates of fast-tracking employment say that Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has enough jobs to accommodate the flood of new arrivals — and in fact is facing the threat of a labor shortage and a growing bill for pensions and health care, as more and more of the country’s aging population reaches retirement. Refugees like Mr. Jasor, as well as many asylum-seekers who have arrived from Syria, are educated and bring employable skills that could help alleviate the labor squeeze.
主张允许快速就业的人士认为，德国有足够的职位来招纳这些难民。更确切地说，德国是老龄化的国家，越来越多的人到了退休年龄，劳动力市场人工短缺，养老和医疗保险开销不断膨胀。叙利亚难民中不乏有像贾西尔这样教育程度高和有技能的人士，他们可以帮助解决人工短缺的问题。
Last week, big employers including Deutsche Post and the automaker Daimler called for an overhaul of German labor laws to let asylum-seekers get to work quickly. Ms. Merkel, who met with industry leaders, announced that Germany would accelerate the asylum process and make it easier for those allowed to stay to enter the work force. An additional 2 billion euros, or nearly $2.3 billion, will be spent to help people learn German, which is essential for any job.
上周，德国邮政（Deutsche Post）和戴姆勒（Daimler）倡议修改劳工法，让难民尽快就业。默克尔在会晤工会领袖后也表示会加快难民的申请程序，并简化手续，帮助得到难民身份的人士进入劳动力市场。另将拨出20亿欧元， 即大约23亿美元的款项用来帮助人们学习德语，方便找工作。
On Monday, Germany’s four main employers’ associations said they supported the government’s decision to temporarily slow the flow of migrants to avoid burdening the asylum system. But in a joint statement, the organizations, which represent hundreds of thousands of companies, renewed the call to give approved migrants faster access to the labor market and to language and skills training.
周一，德国的4大雇主协会宣布支持政府临时放缓接收难民，给庇护体系喘息机会。不过，在联合声明中，这些代表成千上万德国企业的组织再次呼吁尽快给那些已获难民身份的人就业和学习语言及技能的机会。
“That is the best way for permanent integration,” the organizations said in the statement.
这些组织还说，“这是最好的永久整合办法。”
Some Germans fear that the influx could threaten their own jobs and drive wages down. Recently, Marine Le Pen, the head of the far-right National Front party in France, accused Ms. Merkel of encouraging immigration to “recruit slaves.” But political proponents and many businesses see an opportunity to welcome a wave of motivated, mostly younger people into the German labor force.
有些德国人担心大批涌入的人会抢了自己的饭碗，也会拉低工薪。最近，法国极右派政党民族阵线领导人玛琳·雷朋（Marine Le Pen）指责默克尔鼓励移民只为方便“雇用奴隶”。但很多政客及企业认为对德国可谓好时机，那么多有动力的年轻人会给劳动力市场注入新鲜血液。
“There is something to be said about thinking of refugees not just as victims but as potential contributors to societies and economies in the future,” said Elizabeth Collett, a policy fellow at the Migration Policy Institute Europe, based in Brussels.
总部于布鲁塞尔的欧洲移民政策研究所的政策研究人士伊利莎白·科雷表示，不要只想难民是牺牲品，其实他们更是社会经济未来的潜在贡献者。
Despite a five-year economic crisis in Europe, unemployment in this country of 82 million is at a 30-year low of 4.6 percent. Nearly 597,000 jobs are open in health and hospice care, engineering, carpentry, fast food — the list goes on.
虽然欧洲经历了5年的经济危机，可是拥有8千2百万人口的德国，失业率仅4.6%， 是30年来的最低。近59万7千个职位有待招聘，这些工作分散在各个不同领域：医疗安养业，工程业，手工业，快餐业， 行业名单还很长。
Analysts said Germans and other European nationals were not filling those jobs because they did not have the right experience or education or, in the case of low-skilled work, because they did not want the jobs.
分析人士指出德国和其他欧洲国家之所以有那么多职位空缺，原因是缺乏有正确经验和教育的寻业人员。对那些低技能的职位又没有人愿意做。
The labor shortage has persisted even after tens of thousands of young people from Greece, Spain and other crisis-hit eurozone economies have flocked to Germany in recent years to find employment.
近年来，数以万计的年轻希腊人，西班牙人不堪忍受本国的经济危机，纷纷到德国寻求一席之地。可这并没有缓解德国的劳动力短缺状况。
“We don’t see evidence that refugees will be stealing jobs,” said Alexander Wilhelm, a labor market expert at the Confederation of German Employers’ Associations. “We have record-high underemployment and record-high job openings. So for the moment, the labor market is capable of giving new opportunities.”
德国雇主协会联盟的劳动力市场专家亚历山大·威黑姆分析说，“没有证据显示难民在抢我们的工作。 我们有高纪录的不充分就业和高纪录的工作职位，劳动力市场有能力提供新机会”。
Ms. Merkel and many German companies say change is possible. They point to the reunification of East and West Germany and Germany’s previous absorption of European migrants during difficult economic circumstances.
默克尔及德国的大公司表示改变是有可能的。他们指出两德统一，德经济状况不好时接纳了欧洲移民都是最好的例子。
That has not always worked seamlessly.
当然，过去的一切并非都进展得很顺利。
In the 1960s, “guest worker” programs bringing Turks and others to fill factory labor shortages stoked friction and gave rise to ethnic enclaves.
1960年代，“外籍工人”计划吸引了大量土耳其和其他国家的劳工，虽有效缓解了劳动力缺乏的状况， 但也激起了矛盾， 同时少数族裔人数剧增。
And not everyone has the requisite skills.
并非每个人都有所需的技能。
Of the migrants who settled in Germany from 1985 to 2013, for example, 73 percent of men and 48 percent of women wound up working, compared with 83 percent of men and 73 percent of women in the total German labor force, according to the Cologne Institute of Economic Research.
科隆经济研究院相关数字显示，1985到2013年间，73%的男性移民和48%的女性移民有职业，对于本土德国人这一比例为83%和73%。
Migrants coming in now from the Middle East may take longer to learn German or adapt to European culture, making the transition more difficult, the institute added. Others may be suffering trauma from war and their harrowing odyssey to Europe.
科隆经济研究院也指出，来自中东的移民有可能需要较长一段时间来学习德文或适应欧洲文化，因此整合的过程会较为困难。更有些饱受战争创伤的人无法脱离阴影，通往欧洲的生死之旅也致使他们噩梦不断。
Whether the push to employ asylum-seekers proves more than a token gesture remains to be seen. So far, few German companies have hired more than a handful of migrants.
加快庇护者得到工作的脚步是否真的不只是象征性姿态，这还有待观察。目前为止，只有少数的德国公司雇用了少量的难民。
Daimler’s chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, told German news outlets last week that the migrants coming now were the kind of workers the country needed. But his company had taken just four migrants into vocational jobs, a spokesman said, in a work force of nearly 169,000.
戴姆勒首席执行官迪特·蔡泽（Dieter Zetsche）上周告诉德国媒体说，目前的难民正是本国所需的工人。但戴姆勒一位发言人表示，戴姆勒有员工近16万9千人，只有4位难民得到了职业工作。
Other companies are doing a bit more. Two hours northwest of Passau, the German industrial giant Siemens started a pilot project in the spring, taking 10 migrants from Syria and elsewhere as interns at its Erlangen operation, which has 33,000 employees. This autumn, it plans to expand the program to nine sites around the country.
其他公司做得稍好些。今春，德国的工业巨子西门子开启了一项试点项目，采用了10位来自叙利亚及其他地区的移民，安置他们在基地埃朗根（Erlangen）实习， 那里有西门子的3万3千名员工。埃朗根位于帕绍西北部，车程2小时。
At ZF, which has 49,000 workers in Germany and is the largest employer in Passau, Mr. Jasor is the only refugee to be hired. There are no immediate plans to seek others, since the company, a powerhouse in gears and transmissions, has plenty of skilled applicants, said Gernot Hein, a spokesman.
ZF在德国有4万9千名员工，是帕绍地区最大的企业， 贾西尔是那里惟一的被雇难民。ZF发言人格诺特·海因透露公司目前没有马上招聘其他难民的计划，作为生产齿轮和传输装置的知名企业，该公司不乏有技能的应聘者。
But that could change, he said, especially with Ms. Merkel leading the charge. “We see it as a freedom project,” Mr. Hein said. “We must include refugees in the labor force and not just leave them on the street.”
不过，海因补充说，情况也可能会改变，特别是如果默克尔总理强力推行该计划。“我们视此为一项自由（运动）计划，我们不该拒绝雇用难民，要他们露宿街头。”
That view has made Mr. Jasor fall in love with Germany. After fleeing Afghanistan in 2011, he took a perilous route through Iran and then Turkey, where he worked odd jobs to save money and studied German using a Turkish textbook. Later, a smuggler helped get him through Eastern Europe to the border of Germany.
正是这样的看法使得贾西尔深深爱上了德意志。在2011逃离家园阿富汗的过程中，他冒着生命危险，取道伊朗，土耳其， 最后是一个人蛇组织帮助他穿越东欧到达德国边境。逃亡途中，他打零工赚钱并自学德语。
“I’ve been through so many countries, and Germany has the best people,” said Mr. Jasor, a sunny, soft-spoken man who teared up as he thought of the parents he had left behind in Afghanistan. “No one has made me feel like an outsider.”
贾西尔， 这个充满阳光，语调轻柔的年轻人说，“我途经了这么多国家， 深感德国人最好，在这个国度里我不感到自己是外人。”想到自己在阿富汗的父母，他不禁潸然泪下。
Mr. Jasor, who is Muslim, prays regularly, but his German colleagues do not seem to mind, he said. Out of curiosity, he went to Mass one Sunday at a local church, and he has returned several times since to learn more about Christianity and to make friends.
作为穆斯林，贾西尔定期祷告。他说他的德国同事并不介意。处于好奇，他参观了一个当地教堂的主日弥撒。日后，他数次返回那里，希望更多地了解天主教，也希望交到更多朋友。
After his shift at ZF ended one recent afternoon, Mr. Jasor made his way to the migrant home where he lives on the outskirts of Passau. As an apprentice, he now earns 945 euros a month before taxes, and he pays 208 euros a month to rent a small room, instead of having the government continue to subsidize it for him.
最近的一个下午，贾西尔下班后去了帕绍郊外的移民之家，在那里安顿了下来。 学徒的工作带给他每月945欧元的毛收入，他拿出208欧元缴纳房租，房间虽小，可是他不要政府继续补贴他了。
On the floor of his room, a thin blue mattress lay next to a black carpet adorned with a red rose. A rickety desk held German language books, which Mr. Jasor studies at night. The verdant, rolling hills flanking the Danube rise into view through his small window.
小房间的地板上有一张薄薄的蓝色床垫，旁边摆放着的黑色地毯布满了红色玫瑰。简陋的书桌摇摇欲坠，上面却有多本德语书籍，供贾西尔夜间学习德语。窗外碧绿起伏的小山环绕着静静流淌的多瑙河。
Outside, a cacophony of voices filled the air; 95 migrants from Afghanistan, Syria, Nigeria and other countries crowded the other rooms, and rows of strollers and laundry racks lined the hallway. On this day, community volunteers took the migrants for a cruise on the Danube to see the sights, and now they had gathered on the ground floor to discuss the trip in German.
突然，室外一阵刺耳的声音弥漫在空气中，95名来自阿富汗，叙利亚，尼日利亚和其他国家的难民聚集在其他房间。 走廊上婴儿车，换洗衣物架随处可见。这一天，社区的志工组织难民搭船游览多瑙河，大家正在底楼用德文探讨行程。
Mr. Jasor was one of the few who had a job and could not take the tour. But that was fine with him.
贾西尔是为数不多有工作的人，因此无法参与。 不过，他认为这很ok。
“I want to work,” he said. “That is my dream. I will save money to get my own apartment and have a family.”
“我想工作”，他说，“这是我的梦想，我要赚钱买房子，组成家庭。”
He gazed out the window toward the warm, setting sun.
他凝视着窗外暖暖的夕阳。
“This is my future,” Mr. Jasor said. “My future is Germany.”
坚定地说“这是我的未来，我的未来在德国。”