WUERZBURG, Germany — The Islamic State claimed responsibility Tuesday for a rampage by a 17-year-old Afghan migrant who attacked passengers on a regional train in southern Germany with an ax, and then seriously injured a woman who was walking her dog, before he was killed by police.
德国维尔茨堡——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)周二宣布对一名17岁的阿富汗移民的暴行负责。这名青年持一把斧头在德国南部的一列地区火车上袭击乘客，然后又重伤一名在遛狗的女子，最后被警方击毙。
The train attack, around 9 p.m. Monday near Wuerzburg in Bavaria, wounded four visitors from Hong Kong, two of them critically. The woman walking her dog was hospitalized with serious injuries.
列车袭击发生在周一晚上9点左右，地点在巴伐利亚州维尔茨堡附近。袭击造成四名香港游客受伤，其中两人伤情危重。遛狗的那名女子因重伤入院治疗。
The attack intensified fears in Germany that the huge influx of migrants and refugees could pose a security threat.
此次袭击加剧了德国国内的恐慌情绪。民众担心，大量涌入的移民和难民可能会构成安全威胁。
“The brutality and unrestrained readiness to use violence that is reflected by this act has shocked me deeply,” said Horst Seehofer, the governor of the southern state of Bavaria and an ally but occasional critic of Chancellor Angela Merkel, at a Cabinet meeting. Justice Minister Heiko Maas called on Germans "to fight radicalism, regardless of where it comes from.”
“此举反映出的残忍以及肆无忌惮的暴力，令我深感震惊，”德国南部巴伐利亚州的州长霍斯特·泽霍费尔(Horst Seehofer)在一次内阁会议上说。他是德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的盟友，但偶尔也会对其持批评态度。德国司法部长海科·马斯(Heiko Maas)呼吁德国民众“与激进主义战斗，不管它来自哪里”。
On Tuesday afternoon, the Islamic State released a video with Arabic subtitles of a young man, who appeared to be the one who carried out the attack, reciting a jihadi manifesto.
周二下午，伊斯兰国公布了一段配有阿拉伯语字幕的视频。视频中，一名年轻男子背诵了一段圣战宣言，看上去就是那起袭击的歹徒。
In the video, the young man said in Pashto, one of the major languages of Afghanistan, “I will do a martyrdom operation in Germany today,” and pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. He said that Islamic State fighters had settled in “infidel” countries and vowed: “God willing, you will be targeted in your villages, in your cities, in your airports, in your streets. The Islamic caliphate is strong enough to target you everywhere, even in your parliament.” He also urged Muslims to “wake up and support the caliphate,” and to pledge allegiance to the Islamic State’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
在视频中，这名年轻男子用阿富汗主要的语言之一普什图语说，“我今天会在德国执行一次殉难行动，”并宣誓效忠于伊斯兰国。他说伊斯兰国战士已在“异教徒”国家安顿下来，并发誓：“有朝一日，你们会在自己的村庄、城市、机场和街道上成为目标。伊斯兰哈里发强大到足以在各个地方，包括在你们的议会里，对你们发起攻击。”他还呼吁穆斯林“醒过来，支持哈里发”，并承诺效忠于伊斯兰国领导人阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)。
Erik Ohlenschlager, the chief prosecutor in Bamberg, said at a news conference in Wuerzburg that authorities were examining the video to determine if the young man in the video was the teenager who carried out the attack.
班伯格的首席检察官埃里克·奥伦施拉格尔(Erik Ohlenschlager)在维尔茨堡的新闻发布会上表示，当局正在检查视频，以确定视频中的年轻男子是否就是制造此次袭击的青年。
Hours earlier, in a bulletin issued in Arabic and English via its Amaq News Agency, the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the ax attack. It called the Afghan teenager an “Islamic State soldier,” using language similar to its claim of responsibility for the Bastille Day attack in Nice, France, that killed 84 people on Thursday.
几个小时前，在通过自己的通讯社“阿玛克新闻社”(Amaq News Agency)发布的一则阿拉伯语和英语简讯中，伊斯兰国宣布对袭击负责。伊斯兰国称那名阿富汗青年是一名“伊斯兰国战士”，它在宣布对周四巴士底日发生在法国尼斯的那场袭击负责时，使用了类似的语言。尼斯的袭击造成84人死亡。
The statement added that he had acted in response to the Islamic State’s call to target members of the U.S.-led coalition that is fighting the group in Iraq and Syria.
声明还表示，那名男子是响应伊斯兰国的号召而采取行动的。伊斯兰国呼吁将目标对准参加美国领导的联盟的国家。这个联盟正在伊拉克和叙利亚打击伊斯兰国。
German authorities said that investigators had found a hand-drawn flag of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, in the room of the Afghan teenager, along with notes in Pashto indicating that he might have been self-radicalized.
德国当局称，调查人员在那名阿富汗青年的房间里找到了一面手绘的伊斯兰国（又称ISIS）旗帜，以及一些用普什图语做的笔记。它们表明，他可能是自行走向激进化的。
Approximately 1.5 million migrants have applied for asylum in Germany in the past 18 months, but the enthusiastic welcome they initially received has given way to one of increasing concern as the euphoria of generosity is overshadowed by the difficult reality of integration.
过去18个月里有大约150万移民在德国申请庇护，但随着慷慨待人的喜悦被融合这个现实难题的阴影所笼罩，他们最初受到的热烈欢迎也被日渐加剧的忧虑所取代。
Although the flow has slowed, Merkel has been under increasing pressure, especially after North African migrants were linked to hundreds of sexual assaults in Cologne on New Year’s Eve.
尽管移民和难民涌入的速度放缓，但默克尔面临的压力却在加大，特别是元旦前夕科隆发生的数百起性侵事件被认为和北非移民有关后。
According to the Bavarian State Criminal Police, the teenager entered Germany on June 30, 2015, without his parents and was registered in Passau. He received a temporary residence permit.
据巴伐利亚州刑事警察局(Bavarian State Criminal Police)介绍，2015年6月30日进入德国并在帕绍登记时，这名青年未与父母同行。他获得了临时居住证。
Four of the victims were visiting from Hong Kong: a father, 62, and mother, 58, their 26-year-old daughter, and her boyfriend, 30. The older couple’s 17-year-old son was unhurt.
受害者中，有四人是来自香港的游客：62岁的父亲、58岁的母亲、26岁的女儿和她30岁的男友。这对年长夫妇的17岁儿子逃过一劫。
Hong Kong’s chief executive, Leung Chun-ying, condemned the attack and sent officials to Germany to provide assistance to the family.
香港行政长官梁振英(Leung Chun-ying)对袭击表示谴责，并派官员前往德国，为那一家人提供帮助。
“The two men are more heavily injured, particularly in their heads and torsos,” Kenneth Tong, a senior immigration officer, said before leaving Hong Kong for Frankfurt with three colleagues and four relatives of the family. “It remains to be determined whether we’d transfer them to Hong Kong.”
“两名男性伤者伤势更严重，尤其头部和腹部的伤，”高级移民官员汤敬轩(Kenneth Tong)在和三名同事及四名受害者亲属离开香港前往法兰克福前说。“还没决定是否将他们送回香港。”
The mother and daughter are in stable condition, he said.
他说，母亲和女儿伤情稳定。