BERLIN — A German nurse serving a life sentence for murdering two of his patients is believed to have killed at least 86 others entrusted to his care, officials said Monday, in what they described as an imagination-defying series of crimes.
柏林——周一，德国的官员们表示，据信一名因杀害自己的两名患者而被判终身监禁的德国护士至少谋杀了另外86名由他看护的患者。官员们称，这是一系列极其不可思议的犯罪行为。
The nurse, identified as Niels Högel, was sentenced to life in prison in February 2015, after he confessed and a court in the northern town of Oldenburg found him guilty of administering overdoses of heart medication to some patients in an intensive care ward in Delmenhorst. He was convicted of two counts of murder, two counts of attempted murder and causing bodily harm to patients and is serving his sentence.
2015年2月，德国北部城市奥尔登堡的一家法院认定这位名叫尼尔斯·赫格尔(Niels Högel)的护士在代尔门霍斯特的重症监护病房给某些病人过量注射心脏药物，宣判他有罪，赫格尔认罪后，被判终身监禁。他被认定犯下两起谋杀，两起谋杀未遂，并导致多名病人身体受到伤害，目前正在服刑中。
During his trial, the former nurse had also confessed to intentionally inducing cardiac crises in 90 of his patients, 30 of whom he said had died. That prompted officials to launch an investigation into the deaths of some 130 of Mr. Högel’s former patients. The results were presented on Monday in Oldenburg.
在审判中，这名前护士还承认故意诱发90名病人出现心脏危象，他说其中30人死亡。官员们因此对赫格尔的约130名前病人的死亡展开调查。周一，调查结果在奥尔登堡公布。
At least 84 of the convicted killer’s former patients were found to have died after suffering from injections of five different forms of medication, Johan Kühme, the chief of police in Oldenburg told reporters.
奥尔登堡的警察局长约翰·屈梅(Johan Kühme)对记者们说，这位已被判刑的谋杀犯的至少84名前病人被发现在被注射五种不同的药物之后死亡。
The authorities are waiting for the results of another 41 toxicology reports, the results of which could drive the number of confirmed deaths even higher, he said.
屈梅称，当局在等待另外41份毒理学报告的结果，因赫格尔过量给药而致死的人数很可能会升高。
“The realization of what we were able to learn is horrifying,” Mr. Kühme told reporters. “It defies any scope of the imagination.”
“当我们意识到我们发现了什么之后感到非常恐怖，”屈梅对记者们说。“它超乎任何人的想像。”
Mr. Högel, now 40, told the court at the time that he had enjoyed trying to revive the patients. But his efforts did not always succeed, leaving some to become his victims.
现年40岁的赫格尔当时在法庭上说，他很喜欢尝试抢救病人苏醒过来的感觉。但他的努力并不总是成功，导致有些人成了受害者。
The special commission, launched in October 2014, after Mr. Högel’s confession, combed through evidence that included more than 500 patient files. It based its conclusions in part on toxicology tests on the remains of 134 possible victims, who were exhumed to see if they contained traces of the chemicals the nurse had confessed to using.
2014年10月，在赫格尔交代案情后，该案设立了一个特别调查委员会。该委员会对证据进行了梳理，这包括500多份患者病历。它的结论部分基于对134位潜在受害者的遗体进行的毒理学检测，这些遗体被挖出来，以检测是否包含这名护士承认使用的化学品的残留物。
It found that Mr. Högel had first administered lethal injections to patients at a hospital in Oldenburg, where he worked from 1999 to 2001.
调查发现，赫格尔最初是在奥尔登堡的一家医院对病人进行致命注射，他从1999年至2001年在那里工作。
The investigation also found that although the high number of patients dying under Mr. Högel’s care was noticed by other staff members in Oldenburg, no action was taken to understand why.
调查还发现，虽然赫格尔看护的病人的高死亡率曾引起奥尔登堡其他医护人员的注意，但无人采取行动搞清原因。
As suspicions began to swirl around the nurse, he was later transferred from a ward to a position in an anesthesiology unit, according to the public broadcaster NDR.
据公共广电公司NDR称，随着人们对这名护士的质疑越来越多，后来他被从病房调到了麻醉科。
There, a doctor who worked with him at the time told Mr. Högel that his services were no longer wanted, because he was always forcing himself into the spotlight when trying to revive a patient, the broadcaster reported.
在那里，当时与赫格尔一起工作的一名医生对他说，不再需要他的服务，因为在尝试抢救病人时，他总是强行挤到聚光灯下。
Nevertheless, after the nurse quit his job in Oldenburg, he was issued a recommendation that bore no indication of any concerns about his ability to carry out his duties, the broadcaster said.
不过，在他辞去奥尔登堡的护士工作后，他获得了一封推荐信，信中完全没有提到对他履行自己职责的能力的任何质疑。
In December 2002, Mr. Högel then took up a new job as a nurse at the hospital in Delmenhorst.
2002年12月，赫格尔在代尔门霍斯特的医院找到了一份当护士的新工作。
In 2005, a senior physician at the Delmenhorst hospital, acting on concerns about the nurse, looked at the death records and medicines administered by Mr. Högel and came to the conclusion that he may have killed as many as 100 people. He alerted authorities.
2005年，代尔门霍斯特医院的一名高级内科医生对这名护士产生怀疑，查看了死亡记录以及赫格尔发放的药物，从而得出结论，他可能杀死了多达100名患者。他把相关情况报告给了当局。
Mr. Högel later confessed to killing two patients at the clinic, which led to his conviction by the court in Oldenberg. But the conclusions of the investigation announced on Monday make clear those deaths were just the tip of the iceberg. The authorities are continuing to look into how he was able to kill so many people for so long without being stopped by hospital administrators.
赫格尔后来承认在该医院杀死了两名患者，奥尔登堡法院因此对他定罪。不过，周一公布的调查结果表明，这些死亡案例只是冰山一角。当局在继续调查他怎么能在这么长的时间里杀死如此多的人，而没有被医院管理者制止。
In October 2016, prosecutors brought charges against six employees of the hospital in Delmenhorst, on suspicion of negligent manslaughter, for failing to take action despite their suspicion regarding the nurse’s actions.
2016年10月，检察院对代尔门霍斯特医院的六名员工提出起诉，指控他们玩忽职守，过失杀人，尽管他们对这位护士的行为有所怀疑，却没有采取行动。
A related investigation into hospital personnel in Oldenburg is continuing, but no one has been charged.
对奥尔登堡医院的工作人员的相关调查正在继续，不过尚没有人遭到起诉。
Directors and senior medical staff in Oldenburg are similarly suspected of failing to take action and issuing a reference that made no mentions of concerns about his behavior during his tenure at their clinic.
奥尔登堡的主管和高级医护人员同样被怀疑没有采取行动，而且签发了一份推荐信，在信中完全没有提到对赫格尔在该医院任职期间的行为的任何担忧。