SONNEBERG, Germany — At first glance, this town in central Germany, with rows of large houses built when it was a thriving center of toy manufacturing, looks tidy and prosperous. But Heiko Voigt, the deputy mayor here, can point out dozens of vacant homes that he doubts will ever be sold.
德国松讷贝格——乍看起来，在作为繁荣的玩具制造业中心时建起的一排排大房子，令这座德国中部的小镇显得整洁而繁荣。但这里的副镇长海科·福格特(Heiko Voigt)却能指出数十间空置的房屋，他怀疑这些房屋永远都卖不出去。
The reality is that the German population is shrinking and towns like this one are working hard to hide the emptiness. Mr. Voigt has already supervised the demolition of 60 houses and 12 apartment blocs, strategically injecting grassy patches into once-dense complexes.
实际情况是，德国人口正在萎缩，像这样一个小镇正在努力掩盖其空旷程度。福格特已经监督拆除了60座房屋和12座公寓楼，把一块块草地战略性地填入曾经密集的住宅区。
“We are trying to keep the town looking good,” he said.
“我们努力让小镇看上去还过得去，”他说。
There is perhaps nowhere better than the German countryside to see the dawning impact of Europe’s plunge in fertility rates over the decades, a problem that has frightening implications for the economy and the psyche of the Continent. In some areas, there are now abundant overgrown yards, boarded-up windows and concerns about sewage systems too empty to work properly. The work force is rapidly graying, and assembly lines are being redesigned to minimize bending and lifting.
或许没有什么地方比德国农村能更好地展示出数十年来欧洲生育率的骤降造成的显著后果，这一问题对于这片大陆的经济和心理有着可怕的影响。一些地区有着太多杂草丛生的前院、用木板封着的窗户，以及对污水系统太空而无法正常运转的担忧。劳动力在快速老龄化，生产装配线正在重新设计以尽可能减少弯腰和抬举的动作。
In its most recent census, Germany discovered it had lost 1.5 million inhabitants. By 2060, experts say, the country could shrink by an additional 19 percent, to about 66 million.
在最近的人口普查中，德国发现自己的居民减少了150万。专家称，到2060年，该国可能会再萎缩19%的人口，只剩约6600万。
Demographers say a similar future awaits other European countries, and the issue grows more pressing every day as Europe’s seemingly endless economic troubles accelerate the decline. But bogged down with failed banks and dwindling budgets, few are in any position to do anything about it.
人口学家称，欧洲其他国家也面临着类似的未来，这一问题每天都变得愈加紧迫，因为欧洲那看上去没有尽头的经济危机加速了人口的减少。然而这些国家都深陷在银行破产和预算紧缩之中，基本上对这个问题无能为力。
Germany, however, an island of prosperity, is spending heavily to find ways out of the doom-and-gloom predictions, and it would seem ideally placed to show the Continent the way. So far, though, even while spending $265 billion a year on family subsidies, Germany has proved only how hard it can be. That is in part because the solution lies in remaking values, customs and attitudes in a country that has a troubled history with accepting immigrants and where working women with children are still tagged with the label “raven mothers,” implying neglectfulness.
不过，作为一座繁荣的经济孤岛，德国正斥巨资来寻找摆脱这一沮丧未来的方法，它似乎最有可能为欧洲大陆指条明路。然而到目前为止，尽管在家庭补贴上每年花费2650亿美元（约合16218亿元人民币），德国也只是证明了这个问题有多么难缠。这部分是因为解决方案关乎重塑这个国家的价值观、习俗和态度，该国在接纳移民上有一段不堪回首的历史，有孩子的职业女性仍被贴上“乌鸦妈妈”的标签，意思是她们忽视了孩子。
If Germany is to avoid a major labor shortage, experts say, it will have to find ways to keep older workers in their jobs, after decades of pushing them toward early retirement, and it will have to attract immigrants and make them feel welcome enough to make a life here. It will also need to get more women into the work force while at the same time encouraging them to have more children, a difficult change for a country that has long glorified stay-at-home mothers.
专家称，如果德国想要避免劳动力大量短缺，它就必须想办法让老员工留在工作岗位上，而该国在过去几十年里一直是在推动员工提前退休的，另外它必须吸引移民，并让他们对这里的生活感到满意，从而扎下根。它还必须在推动更多妇女加入劳动力大军的同时，鼓励她们多生孩子，对于这个长期赞美全职妈妈的国家来说，这一改变相当困难。
Some experts worry that Germany has already waited too long to tackle the issue. But others say that is too pessimistic. In any case, in Germany the issue is front and center now.
一些专家担心，德国现在处理这个问题已经有些晚了。但也有人称这种说法太过悲观。不论如何，现在这一问题在德国都是重中之重。
Large families began to go out of fashion in the former West Germany in the 1970s, when the country prospered and the fertility rate began dropping to about 1.4 children per woman and then pretty much stayed there, far below the rate of 2.1 children that keeps a population stable. Other countries followed, but not all. There is a band of fertility in Europe, stretching from France to Britain and the Scandinavian countries, helped along by immigrants and social services that support working women.
在20世纪70年代的前西德，大家庭开始不再时兴，当时该国发展兴旺，生育率开始下降到约每名妇女1.4个孩子，随后几乎一直维持在这一水平，远比维持人口稳定所需的2.1个孩子的生育率要低。其他欧洲国家也紧随其后，但并不是全都如此。借助移民和支持女性工作的社会服务，从法国、英国一直延伸到斯堪的纳维亚的许多欧洲国家都出现了生育率的增长。
Raising fertility levels in Germany has not proved easy. Critics say the country has accomplished very little in throwing money at families in a system of benefits and tax breaks that includes allowances for children and stay-at-home mothers, and a tax break for married couples.
在德国，提高生育水平却着实不易。批评人士称，该国在家庭上砸钱却没获得什么成效，其福利和税收优惠系统为儿童和居家妈妈提供津贴，并为已婚夫妇提供减税。
Demographers say that a far better investment would be to support women juggling motherhood and careers by expanding day care and after-school programs. They say recent data show that growth in fertility is more likely to come from them.
人口学家说，在育儿和事业方面多支持女性，对日托和课外项目进行拓展，这些地方的投入才是更好的选择。他们说近期的数据表明，这些举措更可能提高生育率。
“If you look closely at the numbers, what you see is the higher the gender equality, the higher the birthrate,” said Reiner Klingholz of the Berlin Institute for Population and Development.
“仔细看数据就能发现，男女越平等，生育率就越高，”柏林人口和发展研究所(Berlin Institute for Population and Development)的雷纳·科林霍尔兹(Reiner Klingholz)说。
But undoing years of subsidies for traditional households is difficult. “Touching those is political suicide,” said Michaela Kreyenfeld of the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research in Rostock, Germany.
但是要取消多年的传统家庭补贴并非易事。“去碰这些问题是政治自杀，”德国罗斯托克的马克斯·普朗克人口研究所(Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research)的米夏埃拉·凯恩菲尔德(Michaela Kreyenfeld)说。
In the meantime, mothers trying to work here face obstacles that discourage large families. Though Germany recently enacted a law guaranteeing day care for all children over 12 months, compared with 3 years and older before — experts say there is still a shortage of affordable facilities. Further, many schools let out at noon and there are few after-school programs.
与此同时，希望在该国工作的母亲会遇到对大家庭不友好的政策阻拦。尽管德国近年实施了一项法律，让所有12个月以上的孩子都能得到日托保障，相比之前的3岁及3岁以上有所扩大——但专家称费用低廉的日托设施还是很紧缺。此外很多学校中午就放学了，课外活动项目很少。
Melanie Vogel, 39, of Bonn, found that trying to blend work and motherhood was so lonely, dispiriting and expensive that she decided to have one child. None of her friends worked full time, her mother-in-law made clear she disapproved and so did clients in the job fair company she runs with her husband.
39岁的梅兰妮·佛格尔(Melanie Vogel)来自波恩，她发现要兼顾工作和育儿是件非常孤单、沮丧和昂贵的事情，因此决定只要一个孩子。她的朋友没有一个在做全职工作，她的婆母明确表示了不满，她的公司客户也一样。她和丈夫合伙开了一个办招聘会的公司。
“Before my son was born, I was Melanie, a working businesswoman,” Mrs. Vogel said. “But after my son was born, to a lot of people, I was just a mother.”
“我儿子出生前，我是梅兰妮，一个经商的职业女性，”佛格尔说。“但是儿子出生后，在很多人看来我就只是个母亲了。”
Many working mothers find themselves quickly pushed into poorly paid “mini” jobs — perhaps 17 hours a week for about $600 a month. More than four million working women in Germany, about a quarter of the female work force, hold such jobs.
很多有孩子的职业女性发现她们很快被排挤到一些薪资很低的“迷你”职位上——大概一周工作17个小时，月薪600美元。德国有超过400万职业女性，其中约有四分之一的女性员工在做这样的工作。
Another way to adjust to the population decline is to get older workers to postpone retirement. The German government is raising the retirement age incrementally to 67 from 65, and companies have moved fast to adapt. The share of people ages 55 to 64 in the work force had risen to 61.5 percent in 2012, from 38.9 percent in 2002.
应对人口下降的另一个办法是将老龄工作者的退休延后。德国政府正在逐步将退休年龄从65岁提高到67岁，企业已经迅速做出调整。员工中年龄在55到64岁之间的占比已经从2002年的38.9%上升到2012年的61.5%。
Volkswagen has redesigned its assembly line to ease the bending and overhead work that put excessive strain on workers’ bodies. About three years ago, they began using reclining swivel seats that provide back support even for hard-to-reach spots in the automobiles they are building, and the installation of heavy parts like wheels and front ends is now often fully automated.
大众(Volkswagen)重新设计了装配线，减少了需要弯腰和抬头的地方，避免给工人身体带来过多劳损。大约在三年前，他们开始使用向后倾斜的旋转座椅，这样在制造汽车的过程中，即便遇到一些不容易够到的地方也可以有背部支撑，另外像车轮和车体前部这样的重型零件现在一般是全自动装配的。
With high unemployment rates across most of Southern and Eastern Europe, Germany is in a good position to increase its labor pool by plucking the best and the brightest from its neighbors, and it has begun to do so.
眼下欧洲南部和东部的失业率居高不下，正是德国提升人力储备，抢夺邻国最好、最聪明的工人的时候，它已经开始这么做了。
Yet, with hundreds of thousands of skilled jobs unfilled, some executives believe Germany should change its immigration laws and accept foreign credentials to compete for workers with other aging countries.
然而考虑到还有数十万个技术性职位空缺，一些企业高管认为德国应该修改移民法，承认外国资格证书，以此来和其他老龄化国家争夺工人。
Germany’s experience with integrating foreign workers in the past, particularly the country’s large Turkish minority, has proved difficult, and many government officials and business leaders are examining Germany’s culture, eager to do what it takes to be hospitable.
至于外国工人的融入，德国以往的经历证明是有难度的，对该国的一大少数民族群体土耳其人尤其是如此，许多政府官员和企业领导人在审视德国文化，有意做出改变，让这里变得更好客。
But whether they will succeed is unclear. A recent study found that more than half the Greeks and Spaniards who came to Germany left within a year. Many new arrivals are young, highly qualified and see a global market for their skills. And many, given the opportunity, will probably go home, experts say. Immigration in general has become more temporary, and moving across borders in Europe is especially easy.
但是能否取得成功就不得而知了。近期一项研究发现，来到德国的希腊和西班牙人有超过一半会在一年内离开。新来的很多是年轻人，有着很好地学历，他们认为自己的技能在全球都有市场。专家说很多人如果有机会可能会回家。移民行为总体上变得更临时，而跨越欧洲各国的边境尤其方便。
“I think the answer is that we need to look outside Europe,” Dr. Klingholz said.
“我认为答案就是我们需要把眼光放到欧洲以外的地方，”科林霍尔兹说。