BERLIN — The publisher Axel Springer’s role in Germany’s postwar history — from building its high-rise headquarters close to the Berlin Wall to antagonize the Communist authorities on the other side to denouncing the student movement in 1968 — has earned it respect and disdain in equal turns.
柏林——出版公司阿克塞尔斯普林格(Axel Springer)在德国战后扮演的历史角色——从它在柏林墙附近为其总部修建高楼大厦，到跟柏林墙另一边的共产党政权对抗较量，再到谴责1968年的学生运动——让它收获尊敬的同时，也没少被人鄙视。
What has never been disputed since the company’s namesake, Axel Springer, founded the company in 1946 with a daily newspaper and a program guide, is the publisher’s role as a bastion of print media in Germany, and more recently, Europe.
从未有过争议的，是该公司同名创始人阿克塞尔·斯普林格1946年靠一份日报和一份节目指南起家以来，公司在德国（以及之后在欧洲）纸媒出版业中的地位：行业的有力捍卫者。
So when the publisher announced on July 25 that it was selling off two regional newspapers and several magazines to focus on digital products, the news was met with howls of outrage and accusations of betrayal from German commentators and reporters.
所以，这家出版商在7月25日宣布出售旗下的两份区域性报纸和一些杂志，以便专注于数码产品的消息，引起了德国评论家和记者们的公愤，他们纷纷指责该公司的背叛行为。
“The company is in the process of transforming itself from one of Europe’s most renowned publishers to a conglomerate concentrated on digital media,” the German Journalists’ Association said in a statement.
德国记者协会(German Journalists’ Association)在一份声明中表示，“该公司正在把自己从欧洲最负盛名的出版商之一变成了一个专注于数字媒体的企业集团。”
“Journalism? Not with us,” the left-leaning daily Taz, a longstanding rival of the more conservative Springer publications, wrote in a headline about the sale.
长久以来，左倾的《日报》(Taz)一直是比较保守的斯普林格出版物的劲敌，它在报道这个事件时用的标题是：《新闻业？不关我们的事》。
The print media in Germany have been largely immune to the upheavals that have racked the newspaper industry in much of the world, retaining more than 45.5 million readers, or slightly more than half of the population in 2012, according to the Frankfurt-based group Media Analysis.
在全球很多地方，各种剧变给报业带来了沉重的打击，但在德国，纸媒在很大程度上没有遭受影响。总部设在法兰克福的媒体分析集团(Media Analysis)的资料显示：2012年，德国报纸的读者人数超过4550万，略多于德国一半的人口。
So that a leading publisher could divest itself of several of its most traditional printed publications in the name of an electronic future was as shocking for many here as the Graham family’s decision to sell The Washington Post to Jeffrey P. Bezos, founder of Amazon.com, the online retail behemoth.
因此，出版业中的一家领军公司，在“数字未来”的名义下，放弃了旗下最传统的几份纸质出版物，这让很多人感到震惊，其程度不亚于格雷厄姆(Graham)家族决定把《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)卖给互联网零售巨头亚马逊(Amazon.com)的创始人杰夫·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)。
Springer said its decision to sell the regional newspapers Hamburger Abendblatt and Berliner Morgenpost, the popular Hörzu TV program guide and several women’s magazines was very different from the Grahams’ decision to sell The Washington Post.
斯普林格公司表示，自己出售地方报纸《汉堡晚报》(Hamburger Abendblatt)和《柏林晨邮报》(Berliner Morgenpost)、广受欢迎的电视指南杂志《聆听》(Hörzu)，以及几本女性杂志，跟格雷厄姆出售《华盛顿邮报》大不一样。
“We sold moneymaking publications to a traditional publisher,” said Tobias Fröhlich, a spokesman for Axel Springer. “For us, it was a question of where we saw the potential for growth."
“我们把正在盈利的出版物出售给传统出版商。”阿克塞尔·斯普林格的发言人托比亚斯·弗罗利克(Tobias Fröhlich)说。“对公司来说，这是一个‘我们认为增长潜力在哪里’的问题。”
The sale of the Springer publications to the Funke MedienGruppe, previously the WAZ Gruppe, for about 920 million euros, or $1.2 billion, still requires approval from Germany’s antitrust authorities.
施普林格把这些出版物出售给了冯克媒体集团（Funke MedienGruppe，其前身为WAZ集团），价格在9.2亿欧元左右（约合74.5亿元人民币）。目前，这桩交易仍然有待德国反垄断部门的批准。
For Springer, the growth lies in digital media. The company operates several online portals, including the real estate site ImmoNet.de, the StepStone online employment market and a shopping site.
对于施普林格来说，增长的潜力蕴藏在数字媒体中。该公司目前经营着几个门户网站，包括房地产网站ImmoNet.de，StepStone招聘网站，以及一个购物网站。
Springer insisted that journalism would remain at the heart of its business. The sale, the company said, would allow its two main publications, Bild and Die Welt, to grow, partly by expanding its presence online through multimedia and digital storytelling. Together, those publications made 514 million euros in profit for the company in 2012 and accounted for about 15 percent of total sales.
斯普林格坚称，新闻工作仍将是公司业务的中心。该公司表示，这桩交易会帮助它的两大出版物《图片报》(Bild)和《世界报》(Die Welt)增长；增长的方式之一是利用多媒体和数字式的故事讲诉方法，在互联网上进行扩张。2012年，这些出版物共为该公司创造了5.14亿欧元的利润，其销售额占该公司销售总额的15%左右。
The company’s actions increasingly reflect the shifting focus on the digital world.
该公司当下的举措进一步反映了焦点正在向数字世界转移。
Last year, Bild sent its editor in chief, Kai Diekmann, to Silicon Valley to make contacts with the heads of major digital media firms. He even exchanged his tie and slicked-backed hair for a much more tech-friendly look, complete with hoodie and a beard.
去年，《图片报》的主编凯·狄克曼(Kai Diekmann)前往硅谷，跟大牌数字媒体公司的负责人进行接触。他甚至放弃了领带和一丝不苟的发型，换上了更具高科技行业风格的装扮，套上帽衫，留起胡须。
The company announced its plans in May to build a Media Campus near its Berlin headquarters to house its digital subsidiaries and to attract and train young reporters in digital media.
该公司5月宣布了一个计划，在其柏林总部附近建立一个媒体园区(Media Campus)，以容纳公司旗下的数字机构，吸引和培养年轻的数字媒体记者。
Last week, several Springer publications allowed Google to display parts of articles on its news search pages, despite a new copyright law that took effect Aug. 1.
施普林格旗下的几份出版物上周开始允许谷歌在其新闻搜索页显示它们文章的部分段落，没有遵循8月1日生效的一部新版权法。
But the bankruptcies of the news service DAPD and the daily Frankfurter Rundschau last year, as well as the closure of The Financial Times Deutschland, has raised concerns among the German news media.
但去年德国国际通讯社(DAPD)和日报《法兰克福评论报》（Frankfurter Rundschau)的破产，以及《德国金融时报》(Financial Times Deutschland)的关张，已经加深了德国新闻媒体业的担忧。
“They are worried about their own future,” The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote about journalists in an article that explained the hopes that had been pinned on Axel Springer’s chief executive. “With Springer’s split from its newspapers and print magazines, an illusion has also burst: the illusion that Mathias Döpfner and his company could show the industry the way in how to bring old newspapers and print magazines successfully into the digital era.”
“记者们担心自己的前途。”《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung)在一篇文章中解释说，记者们对阿克塞尔·斯普林格的首席执行官寄予了希望。“斯普林格出售了报纸和纸质杂志，一个幻想也随之破灭。这个幻想就是：该公司及其首席执行官玛蒂亚斯·德普夫纳(Mathias Döpfner)可以向报业展示，如何把老派的报纸和杂志成功地带进数字时代。”
On Tuesday, while German publications were more muted in their lamentation over the sale of The Washington Post, Die Welt lauded the move. In an editorial published online, it compared Mr. Bezos to the leaders from the Industrial Revolution.
本周二，虽然很多德国出版物在哀悼《华盛顿邮报》的出售时比较沉默，《世界报》却不乏溢美之词。它在网站上发表了社论，将贝佐斯和工业革命的领导者们相提并论。
“Today customers want to be participants, they want to have control and make decisions for themselves,” Die Welt wrote. “Now, Bezos is beginning to review structures in the news business that date from the 19th century. The decision is not premature.”
“顾客们如今希望参与制作过程，拥有控制权，能够自己做决定。”《世界报》写道。“现在，贝佐斯开始重新审视19世纪以来的新闻业务结构。这不是一个草率的决定。”