BERLIN — A German publisher of right-wing books has begun selling a reprint of Adolf Hitler’s “Mein Kampf,” originally issued in 1943 by the Nazi party’s central publishing house, a move that risks violating Germany’s law against the distribution of Nazi propaganda.
柏林——德国一家右翼书籍出版商，已经开始销售再版的阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)的《我的奋斗》(Mein Kampf)，该书最初由纳粹党的中央出版社在1943年出版。此举有可能触犯了德国关于不得销售纳粹宣传品的法律规定。
A copyright on “Mein Kampf” that was held by the Bavarian government expired on Dec. 31, and an annotated scholarly edition was published this year with government permission.
由巴伐利亚州政府持有的《我的奋斗》版权于去年12月31日到期。今年，该书的学术注释版在政府的许可下出版发行。
Now, state prosecutors in the German city of Leipzig, where the publisher, Der Schelm, is based, are investigating whether they can press charges . Last week, prosecutors in Bamberg opened a separate investigation after a bookseller, who was not identified, advertised Der Schelm’s edition.
前述出版商名叫淘气出版社(Der Schelm)，其所在地莱比锡市的州检察官正展开调查，看是否可以对其提起指控。上周，班伯格的检察官针对一个推介淘气版《我的奋斗》的书商启动了单独的调查。该书商的姓名未被公开。
Although Hitler’s two-volume treatise, written from 1924 to 1927 and laying out his ideas on race and violence, is widely available on the internet, the annotated version is the only one that is legal in Germany. The 3,500 comments accompanying the text provide context for the work, and they are aimed, in part, at trying to prevent a new generation from taking up Nazi ideologies.
希特勒的这一专著分上下两卷，写于1924年至1927年，详细论述了希特勒关于种族和暴力的观点。尽管该书在网络上流传甚广，但在德国，新上市的注释版是唯一合法的版本。与正文一同出现的3500条注释交代了这本书的背景，在某种程度上旨在竭力防止新世代的年轻人接受纳粹的意识形态。
“Promoting an edition without annotations is considered a criminal offense,” Christopher Rosenbusch, a spokesman for prosecutors in Bamberg, said on Wednesday.
“推销无注释版本被认为是犯罪行为，”班伯格的检察官发言人克里斯托弗·罗森布施(Christopher Rosenbusch)说。
The Der Schelm edition is advertised as “unchanged and without comment, for critical assessment.” The house, which also offers a reprinted edition of the German translation of Henry Ford’s “International Jew,” encourages its readers to “have the courage to make your own judgment.”
淘气版《我的奋斗》的宣传语是“无修改无注释，谨供批判性评价之用”。该出版社还再版了亨利·福特(Henry Ford)的德译本《国际犹太人》(International Jew)，并鼓励读者“鼓起勇气做出自己的判断”。
The move comes as a new far-right political party, Alternative for Germany, has risen in popularity, in part, by appealing to fears linked to the arrival last year of a million migrants and by questioning many of the liberal policies and premises that have dominated public discourse in postwar Germany.
淘气出版社此举的背景是，一个新成立的极右派政党——德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany)——已经通过迎合去年到来的100万移民所引发的恐惧心理，以及质疑主导德国战后公共话语的许多自由主义政策和假设，而受到了广泛欢迎。