BERLIN — German experts will help destroy chemical weapons removed from Syria under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the government said Thursday.
柏林——德国政府周四宣布，在联合国及禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)的支持下，该国专家将协助销毁从叙利亚移除的化学武器。
The German Defense Ministry runs a facility near the northern town of Munster where gases produced in the destruction of mustard gas from chemical weapons will be neutralized, the government said in a statement, likening the initial material to industrial waste.
政府发表声明称，德国国防部在北部城镇明斯特附近拥有一处设施，销毁化学武器中的芥子气的过程中所产生的气体将在那里进行无害化处理。声明中还将这种销毁过程的最初产物类比为工业废弃物。
Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, tacitly acknowledging that the plan to destroy the weapons on German soil may prompt criticism from the opposition Green party and Germany’s strong environmental movement, stressed that the decision was made in part to maintain international credibility in addressing Syria’s civil war, particularly as foreign powers prepare for talks in Geneva this month to try to end the conflict.
在德国领土上销毁这些武器的计划可能会招致反对党绿党，以及该国强大的环保团体的反对。对于这一点，外交部长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)予以了默认。他强调，之所以做出此项决定，一部分是为了维护在处理叙利亚内战问题上的国际公信力，尤其是考虑到外部大国正在为本月召开的日内瓦会议做准备。本次会议旨在终结叙利亚冲突。
“Nobody who takes international responsibility seriously can say no here,” he said.
“在这种情况下，任何严肃对待国际责任的人士都不能予以回绝，”他说。
Germany “has secure technology and long experience in destroying the remaining materials in chemical weapons,” Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement.
国防部长乌尔苏拉·冯德莱恩(Ursula von der Leyen)则发表声明称，“在销毁化学武器残余物质方面”，德国“拥有安全的技术与长期的经验”。
The identification and removal of the weapons by United Nations inspectors followed a September agreement that averted a threatened military strike by the United States on Syria in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack that killed hundreds of civilians in Syria in August.
去年8月，叙利亚的一次化武袭击导致数百名平民身亡，为此，美国扬言要发动针对该国的军事攻击。各方于9月达成协议，从而解除了采取报复行动的威胁。随后，联合国监察团对叙利亚的化学武器进行了清点与移除。
The German news agency DPA, citing unidentified sources, said the initial dismantling of the weapons from Syria — in which mustard gas is split into more harmless parts — would take place on an American vessel in the Mediterranean. Hundreds of tons of a chemical DPA identified as hydrolysate will then be shipped in containers to Germany and taken by rail or truck to the Munster facility, it said.
德国新闻机构德新社(DPA)援引未具名的来源报道，叙利亚化武的最初消解——将芥子气裂解为更为无害的物质——将在地中海的一艘美国舰只上完成。德新社将此类物质称为“水解产物”。文中称，数百吨这种物质随后将通过集装箱海运至德国，最后通过铁路或公路抵达位于明斯特的设施。