He was 27 years old, loved to fly and apparently set off no alarms or showed signs that he was troubled – or worse.
他今年27岁，热爱飞行，似乎没有值得人们警觉的地方，也没有表现出自己了陷入烦恼——或是更糟糕的情况。
The co-pilot of Germanwings Flight 9525, which crashed into the Alps en route from Barcelona to Düsseldorf on Tuesday, has been identified as Andreas Lubitz, a German who grew up in the Rhineland town of Montabaur.
周二在阿尔卑斯山区坠毁的德国之翼9525航班的这名副驾驶，确认是安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)。他是德国人，在蒙塔鲍尔的莱茵兰长大。这架飞机当时正在从巴塞罗那飞往杜塞尔多夫的途中。
On Thursday, a French prosecutor said Mr. Lubitz had deliberately set out to “destroy the aircraft” by putting it on a descent path and ignoring the increasingly frantic knocks on a locked cockpit door by the pilot, who had stepped out for a few minutes, leaving Mr. Lubitz at the controls alone.
周四，一名法国检察官透露，卢比茨让飞机处于下降状态，对机长在驾驶舱外越来越疯狂的砸门举动置之不理，是故意要“摧毁这架飞机”。当时，机长离开了驾驶舱有几分钟时间，卢比茨独自操控。
Officials at Germanwings and its parent company, Lufthansa, provided a bare-bones description of Mr. Lubitz — and said his motivation, if he had committed such a horrendous act, remained a mystery to them, as well.
德国之翼及其母公司汉莎航空(Lufthansa)的官员提供了卢比茨的基本信息，并表示，如果他真的从事了如此可怕的行为，他的动机对他们来说也是一个谜。
“We have no indication what could have led the co-pilot to commit this terrible act,” said Carsten Spohr, head of Lufthansa, at a news conference near the Germanwings headquarters in Cologne, just hours after the prosecutor described the last minutes of the flight. “Such an isolated act can never be completely ruled out. The best system in the world can’t stop it.”
“我们没有发现征兆，是什么可能导致这名副驾驶犯下如此可怕的行径，”汉莎航空的负责人卡斯滕·施波尔(Carsten Spohr)在德国之翼科隆总部附近举行的新闻发布会上说。就在几个小时前，法国检察官这样描述坠机前的最后几分钟：“这种独自行动的可能性永远存在。世界上最好的制度也无法避免这种情况的发生。”
Officials said Mr. Lubitz was accepted into the pilot training program in 2008, and did his training in Bremen, Germany, and in Phoenix. Martin Riecken, a Lufthansa spokesman, said, “Every Lufthansa pilot does part of their training in Phoenix, simply because the weather there is so good and conditions are good for flying.”
官方表示，卢比茨2008年被飞行员培训项目录取，先后在德国的不来梅和美国的菲尼克斯接受了训练。汉莎航空的发言人马丁·里肯(Martin Riecken)称，“每一名汉莎的飞行员都会在菲尼克斯进行一部分训练。这是因为那里的天气太好了，很适合飞行。”
The flight-school program usually lasts from a year and a half to two years, and includes a few months in Phoenix doing real flying in small training aircraft as well as simulator and classroom work, he said. But Mr. Lubitz interrupted his training at one point, for an unknown reason, Mr. Spohr said. If the cause was medical, he said, he would not know because of German rules on privacy for medical records.
他说，这个飞行学习项目通常持续一年半到两年，其中有几个月是在菲尼克斯用小型训练机实飞、在模拟器上操控，并接受课堂培训。不过，施波尔称，卢比茨曾一度中断训练，原因不详。他说，如果是医学方面的原因，他也无法获知，因为德国对医疗记录隐私进行了规定。
Mr. Lubitz eventually completed his training and passed all medical and flying tests, joining Germanwings as a pilot in 2013. He worked as an airline steward for 11 months after he completed his training and was waiting for a pilot’s slot, Mr. Spohr said, adding that this was not unusual.
卢比茨最终完成了培训，通过了所有的医学和飞行测试，2013年成为了德国之翼的飞行员。施波尔说，在结束培训后，他当了11个月的空乘人员，等待飞行员的职位出现空缺。他还指出，这种情况并不少见。
At the time of the crash, the co-pilot had 630 hours of flying experience, according to Mr. Riecken. “He was 100 percent flightworthy without any limitations,” Mr. Spohr said.
里肯表示，在坠机事件发生时，这名副驾驶已经拥有630小时的飞行经验。“他完全能胜任飞行，不存在任何限制，”施波尔说。
Brice Robin, the Marseilles prosecutor who accused Mr. Lubitz of having acted deliberately, said there was no indication that the destruction of the airliner was a terrorist attack. He said Mr. Lubitz had not been known to law enforcement officials. Later, the German interior minister, Thomas de Maizière, said a check of records had found no terrorism links for anyone on board the plane.
马赛的检察官布莱斯·罗班(Brice Robin)指责卢比茨的行为是有意为之，但表示没有迹象显示飞机坠毁是一次恐怖袭击。他说，卢比茨从未引起过执法官员的注意。此后，德国内政部长托马斯·德梅齐埃(Thomas de Maizière)称，查阅记录后没有发现机上任何人员与恐怖主义有关。
Mr. Lubitz was a member of a flying club near Montabaur, which posted a short death notice for “Andreas” on its website. It said that he had joined as a 14-year-old and that he had long dreamed of being a pilot
卢比茨是蒙塔鲍尔附近的一家飞行俱乐部的会员。该俱乐部在网站上发布了一则“安德烈亚斯”的简短讣告。文中称，他14岁加入俱乐部，长期以来一直梦想成为飞行员。
On Thursday, members of the club told The Associated Press that he had appeared to be enthusiastic about flying. “He was happy he had the job with Germanwings and he was doing well,” a club member, Peter Ruecker, told The e A.P. “He was very happy. He gave off a good feeling.”
周四的时候，俱乐部的几名成员告诉美联社(The Associated Press)，他一直表现出对飞行充满热情。“他很高兴能在德国之翼工作，表现也相当出色，”俱乐部会员彼得·吕克尔(Peter Ruecker)说。“他非常开心，给人的印象很好。”
“Andreas became a member of the club as a youth to fulfill his dream of flying,” the LSC Westerwald club said on its website.
“为了实现飞行的梦想，安德烈亚斯少年时期就加入了俱乐部，”这家名为LSC Westerwald的俱乐部在其网站上表示。