German officials are furious at America, and not just because of the business about Angela Merkel’s cellphone. What has them enraged now is one (long) paragraph in a U.S. Treasury report on foreign economic and currency policies. In that paragraph Treasury argues that Germany’s huge surplus on current account — a broad measure of the trade balance — is harmful, creating “a deflationary bias for the euro area, as well as for the world economy.”
德国官员对美国大发雷霆，不仅是因为默克尔的手机被监控的事情。眼下让他们怒火中烧的是，美国财政部有关外国经济与货币政策的报告中出现的一个（长长的）段落。在这段文字中，美国财政部提出，德国庞大的经常账户顺差——可大致评估贸易均衡的指标——是有害的，给“欧元区以及世界经济创造了通货紧缩的倾向”。
The Germans angrily pronounced this argument “incomprehensible.” “There are no imbalances in Germany which require a correction of our growth-friendly economic and fiscal policy,” declared a spokesman for the nation’s finance ministry.
德国人愤怒地指出，这种说法“莫名其妙”。“德国不存在什么失衡，因此也无需对促增长的经济和财政政策进行调整，”德国财政部发言人表示。
But Treasury was right, and the German reaction was disturbing. For one thing, it was an indicator of the continuing refusal of policy makers in Germany, in Europe more broadly and for that matter around the world to face up to the nature of our economic problems. For another, it demonstrated Germany’s unfortunate tendency to respond to any criticism of its economic policies with cries of victimization.
可是，美国财政部的表述是准确的，而德国的反应则令人不安。一方面，它意味着德国乃至欧洲的决策者依然不愿直面经济问题的本质。就这件事而论，全世界的决策者都是如此。另一方面，这种反应也表明，很不幸，当德国的经济政策遭到任何批评的时候，该国的回应往往是高呼不公。
First, the facts. Remember the China syndrome, in which Asia’s largest economy kept running enormous trade surpluses thanks to an undervalued currency? Well, China is still running surpluses, but they have declined. Meanwhile, Germany has taken China’s place: last year Germany, not China, ran the world’s biggest current account surplus. And measured as a share of G.D.P., Germany’s surplus was more than twice as large as China’s.
先来看一些事实。还记得“中国综合征”吧？由于币值低估，这一亚洲最大的经济体一直拥有巨大的贸易顺差。是的，中国的贸易顺差依然存在，但的确已经出现了下降。与此同时，德国则取代了中国的位置：去年，世界上经常账户顺差规模最大的国家不是中国，而是德国。而且，以顺差占GDP的比重来衡量，德国是中国的两倍多。
Now, it’s true that Germany has been running big surpluses for almost a decade. At first, however, these surpluses were matched by large deficits in southern Europe, financed by large inflows of German capital. Europe as a whole continued to have roughly balanced trade.
迄今为止，德国已经在差不多10年时间里连续保持了大规模顺差。不过，德国的顺差起初是与南欧国家的大规模赤字相对应的。大笔德国资本流入这些国家，因而欧洲整体而言尚能基本保持贸易平衡。
Then came the crisis, and flows of capital to Europe’s periphery collapsed. The debtor nations were forced — in part at Germany’s insistence — into harsh austerity, which eliminated their trade deficits. But something went wrong. The narrowing of trade imbalances should have been symmetric, with Germany’s surpluses shrinking along with the debtors’ deficits. Instead, however, Germany failed to make any adjustment at all; deficits in Spain, Greece, and elsewhere shrank, but Germany’s surplus didn’t.
后来，经济危机爆发，流向欧洲外围地区的资本出现断档。债务国被迫——部分是在德国的坚持下——实施严厉的紧缩政策，让它们的贸易赤字得以削减。但有件事不大对头。贸易失衡的削弱应当是对称的，即德国的顺差和债务国的逆差应该一同收窄。可是，德国根本未能做出任何调整；西班牙和希腊等国的逆差全都下降了，而德国的顺差并未滑落。
This was a very bad thing for Europe, because Germany’s failure to adjust magnified the cost of austerity. Take Spain, the biggest deficit country before the crisis. It was inevitable that Spain would face lean years as it learned to live within its means. It was not, however, inevitable that Spanish unemployment would be almost 27 percent, and youth unemployment almost 57 percent. And Germany’s immovability was an important contributor to Spain’s pain.
这对欧洲来讲是件极为糟糕的事情，原因在于，德国的按兵不动放大了紧缩政策的代价。以西班牙这个危机爆发前逆差规模最大的国家为例。它得直面惨淡的光景，学会量入为出，这是不可避免的。但是，西班牙的整体失业率接近27%，青年失业率接近57%，这却并非无可避免。德国的不作为是西班牙遭受苦难的一大原因。
It has also been a bad thing for the rest of the world. It’s simply arithmetic: Since southern Europe has been forced to end its deficits while Germany hasn’t reduced its surplus, Europe as a whole is running large trade surpluses, helping to keep the world economy depressed.
这对世界其他地区也是件坏事。来做一道简单的算术题：由于南欧国家被迫削减逆差，而德国又并没有降低顺差，欧洲整体上在累积巨额贸易顺差，从而让世界经济难以走出萧条的阴影。
German officials, as we’ve seen, respond to all of this with angry declarations that German policy has been impeccable. Sorry, but this (a) doesn’t matter and (b) isn’t true.
正如我们已经看到的那样，德国官员对这一切的回应是愤怒地发表声明，宣称德国的政策一直无懈可击。抱歉，但首先，这无关紧要，其次，这与事实不符。
Why it doesn’t matter: Five years after the fall of Lehman, the world economy is still depressed, suffering from a persistent shortage of demand. In this environment, a country that runs a trade surplus is, to use the old phrase, beggaring its neighbors. It’s diverting spending away from their goods and services to its own, and thereby taking away jobs. It doesn’t matter whether it’s doing this maliciously or with the best of intentions, it’s doing it all the same.
无关紧要是因为：雷曼(Lehman)倒台五年后，受困于需求的长期不足，世界经济仍然处于萧条之中。在这种环境下，一个国家有贸易顺差，用老话来说，就是在以邻为壑。它使得对邻国产品和服务的消费减少，花在它身上的开支增加，从而抢走邻国的饭碗。至于这样做是出于恶意还是好心，根本无所谓，反正结果都一样。
Furthermore, as it happens, Germany isn’t blameless. It shares a currency with its neighbors, greatly benefiting German exporters, who get to price their goods in a weak euro instead of what would surely have been a soaring Deutsche mark. Yet Germany has failed to deliver on its side of the bargain: To avoid a European depression, it needed to spend more as its neighbors were forced to spend less, and it hasn’t done that.
此外，事实证明，德国并非无可指摘。德国与邻国使用同一种货币，这让该国出口商受益匪浅。若非如此，他们的产品无疑会以坚挺的德国马克而非疲软的欧元标价。然而，德国一直没能遵守己方的承诺：为了避免欧洲陷入萧条，在邻国被迫削减开支的同时，它得扩大消费，但它并没有这样做。
German officials won’t, of course, accept any of this. They consider their country a shining role model, to be emulated by all, and the awkward fact that we can’t all run gigantic trade surpluses simply doesn’t register.
当然，德国官员一概不会承认。他们认为自己的国家是一个光辉的榜样，值得所有人效仿。至于庞大的贸易顺差不可能存在于所有国家之中这一尴尬的现实，根本没被放在心上。
And the thing is, it’s not just the Germans. Germany’s trade surplus is damaging for the same reason cutting food stamps and unemployment benefits in America destroys jobs — and Republican politicians are about as receptive as German officials to anyone who tries to point out their error. In the sixth year of a global economic crisis whose essence is that there isn’t enough spending, many policy makers still don’t get it. And it looks as if they never will.
问题在于，不只德国人如此。与德国的贸易顺差会产生破坏作用类似，在美国，削减食品券和失业救济等福利，同样也会毁掉本土就业机会。共和党政客们打算像德国官员那样闭目塞听，不去理会任何试图指出错误的人。全球经济危机已经进入第六个年头，许多决策者到现在还没弄清，这场危机的本质在于消费不足。看起来，他们是永远也弄不清了。