BERLIN — With mystery enveloping a German intelligence service employee accused of spying — reportedly for the United States — German officials and commentators on Sunday angrily demanded a response from Washington, warning that an already troubled relationship was at risk of deteriorating to a new low.
柏林——据报道，一名德国情报机构雇员被控充当美国的间谍。重重迷雾之下，德国官员和评论界人士周日愤怒地要求华盛顿作出回应。他们警告，两国备受困扰的关系存在恶化至新低谷的风险。
The demands for a statement from the United States were nevertheless couched in cautious terms, suggesting that the scandal, which exploded on Friday when Germany’s federal prosecutor reported the arrest of the 31-year-old employee of the Federal Intelligence Service, might not be as bad as initially feared. The chairman of a parliamentary inquiry into American intelligence activities told German radio that it seemed there was no breach of security surrounding his committee’s work, as some news reports had suggested.
尽管如此，德国要求美国澄清真相的措辞却甚为谨慎，表明上周五曝光的这起丑闻或许不像众人一开始担忧的那样严重。周五，德国联邦检察机构通报，逮捕了德国联邦情报局(Federal Intelligence Service)的一名31岁的雇员。负责调查美国在德情报活动的德国议会委员会的主席对本国电台表示，与一些报道宣称的情况不同，委员会的业务安全看来并未遭到破坏。
Still, the anger was palpable. President Joachim Gauck, whose role is largely ceremonial but who increasingly speaks out on daily matters, told German television that if it turned out that the United States had been spying on Germany, “then that is really a gamble with friendship, with a close alliance.”
不过，德国人的愤怒依然相当明显。总统约阿希姆·高克(Joachim Gauck)对本国电视台表示，如果事实证明美国一直在刺探德国的情报，“那可真是把友谊和亲密的盟友关系当儿戏了。”高克主要承担礼仪性的职责，不过他在越来越多地针对日常事务发声。
“Then we really have to say, ‘Enough,'  ” Mr. Gauck added.
“那我们真的不得不说，‘够了，’” 高克还表示。
Chancellor Angela Merkel, on a trip to China, kept silent on the matter, although reporters traveling with her cited unidentified people in her circle as saying she was “surprised” and “disappointed” at the suggestion that an American intelligence agency had recruited a German agent. Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, traveling in Mongolia, was quoted in the German news media as saying that “if the reports are true, then we are not talking about something minor.”
正在中国访问的德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)对此事保持沉默。不过，陪同出行的记者援引她圈子中不具名人士的话称，对于有迹象显示美国情报机构招募德国特工的情况，她感到“惊讶”和“失望”。德国新闻媒体引用正在蒙古访问的外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)的话称，“倘若报道属实，那我们谈论的可不是一件小事。”
The United States “should fully explain the matter as soon as possible,” Mr. Steinmeier added.
施泰因迈尔还说，美国“应尽快澄清此事。”
Perhaps the most striking sign of the strained relationship was Germany’s decision to summon the American ambassador, John B. Emerson, to the Foreign Ministry on the Fourth of July, just before the American Embassy’s holiday party for hundreds of guests. The newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported that the ambassador had smiled and greeted guests, but that the tension was noticeable: “It was as it has so often been recently when official America meets official Germany. The facade was perfect, but behind it there was little accord.”
7月4日，就在美国驻德国大使馆为数百名宾客举办独立日宴会的前一刻，德国外交部召见了美国大使约翰·B·艾默生(John B. Emerson)。这一决定也许是突显两国关系紧张的最明显的迹象。新闻杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)报道，大使微笑着向宾客致意，可是紧张的气氛仍有显现，“美德近期的正式会面常常如此，这次也一样。表面看，双方毫无嫌隙，背地里却几乎完全不合拍。
An American whom Germans did hear from during the weekend was Hillary Rodham Clinton, in Berlin to promote the German-language edition of her recent book, “Hard Choices,” about her years as secretary of state. While carefully skirting judgment on the new espionage scandal, she emphasized at a Saturday reception at the ambassador’s residence that the relationship between the United States and Germany was valued, and should not be “sidelined, downgraded or destroyed.”
德国人倒是在周末期间听到了希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)的看法。她来到柏林推广新书——《艰难抉择》(Hard Choices)的德语版。这本书讲述了她担任国务卿期间的故事。虽然谨慎地避免对这桩新的间谍丑闻发表评论，但她周六在大使官邸参加招待会时强调，美德关系非常重要，不应该“被忽略、降级或破坏”。
At an appearance on Sunday, she said, “Let’s find out what the facts are,” noting that relations “should not be put at risk.”
周日出席活动时，克林顿表示，“我们先要查清事实，”并指出，两国关系“不应该受到威胁”。
Over decades of friendship since 1945, sharp language like that of recent months has been rare in German-American dealings. Those ties have been strained since last summer, when documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor, suggested that the N.S.A. had monitored the electronic data of millions of Germans. The German government then appeared to receive assurances from Washington that nothing illegal had occurred. But the subsequent revelation that Ms. Merkel’s own cellphone had been monitored stirred new anger in a nation that remembers the role played by a snooping state under the Nazis and the Communists.
在1945年后的数十年中，两国保持了友好关系，而最近几个月出现的严厉措辞颇为罕见。去年夏天，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的文件显示，NSA对成百上千万德国人的电子数据进行监控。此后，两国关系一直处于紧张状态。表面看来，华盛顿后来向德国政府保证，没有出现违法行为。不过，随后曝出了默克尔的手机遭到监听的消息，在德国激起了新的愤怒。对于纳粹及共产党统治下政府的窥探行为，德国人仍然记忆深刻。
The German government tried reaching a “no spy” accord with Washington, but the Obama administration rejected the idea. Months of attempts to restore relations have yielded the beginnings of a dialogue about how to deal with electronic data, cybersecurity and privacy.
德国政府试图与华盛顿达成“无间谍”协议，但这一提议遭到了奥巴马政府的拒绝。经过几个月的修复关系的努力，两国终于开始就如何处理电子数据、网络安全及隐私问题进行对话。