FRANKFURT — Whenever Germany thrived, so did the rest of Europe. But that long-held belief is being questioned by its neighbors, which see evidence that the country is taking off without them.
法兰克福——每当德国蓬勃发展时，欧洲其他国家也会兴旺发达。这是人们长期持有的观念。但德国的友邦目前对此产生了怀疑，它们发现德国有抛下它们独自起飞的迹象。
Despite Berlin’s hefty financial support of the euro zone’s more beleaguered members in the last few years, the economic crisis has corroded commercial ties between Germany and the rest of Europe. Countries like Italy and Spain no longer have the purchasing power they once did, and they trade less with Germany because of it.
经济危机已经损害了德国和欧洲其他国家之间的商业关系，尽管在过去数年间，柏林方面大力资助过欧元区那些境况较为糟糕的成员国。意大利、西班牙之类的国家购买力已不复从前，因此，它们与德国之间的贸易量也不像以往那样大了。
Greece, the most distressed country in Europe, is now little more than a German rounding error. German exports to Greece plunged 40 percent from 2008, while Germany imported 9 percent less from Greece. Last year, Greece ranked 44th among German trading partners, just behind Vietnam.
希腊作为欧洲衰退程度最严重的国家，对德国而言已经变得微不足道。从2008年至今，德国对希腊的出口总额猛跌了40%，进口总额则下降了9%。去年，希腊在德国的贸易伙伴中位列第44，排在越南后面。
No wonder German companies, cheered on by the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel, have turned their attention to faster-growing places like Asia or the United States.
难怪在安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)总理执掌的德国政府激励下，该国的公司会转而关注那些经济增长更快的地方，比如亚洲或者美国。
“Right now it’s a decoupling story rather than a helping-hand story,” said Carsten Brzeski, a senior economist at the Dutch bank ING.
“如今的故事说的是劳燕分飞而非雪中送炭。”荷兰国际集团(ING)高级经济师卡斯滕·布尔泽斯基(Carsten Brzeski)表示。
It is not simply an economic issue, but a geopolitical one.
这不仅仅是一个经济问题，而且还是一个地缘政治问题。
Ms. Merkel is running for re-election this month in a campaign in which one of the few debating points is how many more financial handouts Germany will give to its weaker neighbors. She has made a conscious effort of building closer ties with bigger and faster-growing markets like China. If the Merkel government succeeds in making Germany a bigger global player through trade and investment policy, it not only insulates Germany from European structural woes but also ensures that it remains a global economic force in its own right.
默克尔本月正在竞选连任，而德国还将为经济状况较差的邻国提供多少资金援助，则是竞选活动中为数不多的争论焦点之一。为了推动德国与规模更大、成长速度更快的市场——比如中国——建立更紧密的联系，她已经有意识地做出了努力。如果默克尔政府真能通过采取某些贸易和投资政策把德国变成一个“全球玩家”，那它不仅可以让德国不受欧洲结构性难题的影响，而且可以确保德国依然是一支自成一格的全球性经济力量。
For the rest of the euro zone and the larger European Union, however, unity depends on the sustained energy and commitment of Germany, the wealthiest and most powerful member. The more that Germany sees its long-term interests lying outside Europe, the less certain the future of the entire European project.
然而，对欧元区其他国家以及欧盟整体而言，欧洲一体化的推进还需要仰仗德国这个最富有、最强大的成员国，仰仗它不竭的活力和持久的承诺。德国越是认为其长期利益存在于欧洲之外，欧洲一体化方案的前景就越是渺茫。
“Germany is less willing to play ball,” said Stefano Micossi, director general of Assonime, an Italian business group and research organization. Rather than pulling together, he said, European leaders have been “falling back to mutual mistrust and national solutions.”
“德国不太愿意合作，”意大利商业团体和研究机构“股份公司协会”(Assonime)总裁斯蒂法诺·米科西(Stefano Micossi)表示。米科西说，欧洲领导人并未通力合作，反而“倒退回了互不信任的局面，只从本国角度想问题”。
The euro zone’s economic future remains heavily dependent on Germany, the biggest market for products like shoes from Italy or Ford minivans made in Spain. German companies like Linde, a large supplier of gases for use in industry and health care, are major employers in Southern Europe.
欧元区的经济前景在很大程度是以德国为依托的，该国是意大利产皮鞋、西班牙产福特面包车等产品的最大市场。诸如大型工业和医疗气体供应商林德(Linde)这样的德国公司是南欧的主要雇主。
But Linde’s big growth this year was in the United States, where sales rose 58 percent in the third quarter, to $2.6 billion, thanks to the purchase of Lincare, a company that supplies oxygen to patients in their homes.
但让林德公司今年的营业额大增的，却是美国市场。得益于收购了林凯尔(Lincare)——一家把氧气供应到患者家中的美国公司，今年第三季度，林德在美国的销售额增长58%，达到了26亿美元。
The United States has also become a hot market for German companies like Voith, a maker of industrial equipment, which said last month that it expected to profit from a new law intended to encourage construction of hydroelectric power plants. Voith issued a statement calling the new law “terrific news” — no surprise considering that the company is one of the world’s largest suppliers of hydropower equipment.
对其他一些德国公司而言，美国也成了热门市场——比如工业设备制造商福伊特(Voith)，该公司上个月称其将会从一项旨在鼓励建设水力发电厂的新法规中受益。福伊特发了一份声明，把这项新法规的出炉称为“好消息”——考虑到这家公司是世界上最大的水电设备供应商，这么想也就不足为奇了。
In addition, China has become the most important market for Volkswagen, which sold 1.5 million cars there in the first six months of this year, more than in Western Europe. Volkswagen is also putting renewed emphasis on North America. In 2011, it opened a factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., that contributed to a 10 percent increase in American sales through June from a year earlier.
此外，中国已经成为大众(Volkswagen)最重要的市场，今年前6个月，该公司在中国卖出了150万辆汽车，比在整个欧洲卖出的还多。大众还重新开始重视北美地区。它于2011年在田纳西州的查塔努加(Chattanooga)开了一家工厂，有赖于此，公司在美国的销售额到6月相比去年同期有10%的增长。
“It’s kind of natural that Germany has to look for new trading partners,” said Wolfgang Lechthaler, a senior researcher at the Kiel Institute for the World Economy in Kiel, Germany. Even if trade with the rest of Europe recovers, “many business relations are also long-term relations,” he said. “It might not go back to the same level as before.”
“德国必须寻找新的贸易伙伴，在某种程度上，这是自然而然的事情，”德国基尔世界经济研究所(Kiel Institute for the World Economy)的高级研究员沃尔夫冈·莱希特尔(Wolfgang Lechthaler)说。即便与欧洲其他国家的贸易出现复苏，“许多业务关系也会长期存在下去，”他说。“但可能无法再回到以前的水平了。”
German annualized growth of 2.9 percent in the second quarter of this year lifted the average for the euro zone as a whole and, at least on paper, ended a regional recession that began in 2011.
今年第二季度，德国经济的年化增长率为2.9%，不仅拉高了整个欧元区的平均增长率，还至少在数据上结束了始于2011年的地区性经济衰退。
But a closer look at the numbers shows a big gulf between growing, northern-tier countries like Germany, Austria or Finland and southern countries like Spain, Italy and Greece, which continue to contract, albeit at a more moderate pace than before. The divide makes for tricky navigation by the European Central Bank, which will hold its monthly monetary policy meeting on Thursday, as it tries to promote growth in the ailing countries while heading off inflation in the healthier ones.
但仔细看看这些数字就会发现，经济日益增长的北方国家——如德国、奥地利、芬兰，与经济还在继续萎缩、只不过萎缩速度不像以前那样快的南方国家——如西班牙、意大利、希腊，两者之间存在着巨大的鸿沟。这一划分有助于欧洲央行进行错综复杂的决策。该机构正设法在不景气的国家里推动经济增长，同时在较为繁荣的国家里遏制通货膨胀。它将于周三召开货币政策月度例会。
“Average data for the euro area disguises some divergence,” Jörg Asmussen, a member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, acknowledged in an interview in Berlin last week. “You have some countries with robust growth. On the other hand, you have countries that are deep in recession.”
“欧元区的平均数字掩盖了一些差异，”欧洲央行执行董事会成员约尔格·阿斯姆森(Jörg Asmussen)上周在柏林接受采访时承认。“一方面，有些国家增长强劲，另一方面，有些国家却深陷在衰退之中。”
Despite the strains on European unity, the shared currency as well as a relatively homogeneous legal system could eventually work in favor of the most stricken countries. And even with the growth of trade with China and the United States, Germany’s largest trading partner is still France, with which it did 169 billion euros ($223 billion) in import-export business last year.
尽管欧洲一体化经受着严峻的考验，但共同货币以及相对单一的法律体系，最终应该可以帮助到受冲击最严重的国家。此外，尽管德国同中国以及美国的贸易往来有所增长，但它最大的贸易伙伴依然是法国。去年，德国对法国的进出口贸易总额高达1690亿欧元（2330亿美元）。
“Europe plays a completely different role than China,” said Karl-Heinz Paqué, a professor of economics at the University of Magdeburg in Germany. “It’s not only trade links, it’s also deep integration.”
“欧洲所扮演的角色跟中国是截然不同的。”德国马格德堡大学(University of Magdeburg)经济学教授卡尔-海因茨·帕其(Karl-Heinz Paqué)表示。“它不仅仅是贸易上的联系，还是深度的整合。”