PARIS — Andreas Lubitz, the co-pilot suspected of deliberately flying a German airliner into the French Alps, appears to have rehearsed preparations for the plane’s fatal dive during an earlier flight on the day of the crash, the French authorities said in a preliminary report published on Wednesday.
巴黎——法国当局在周三发布的一份初步调查报告中称，涉嫌故意驾驶一架德国之翼(Germanwings)客机撞向法国阿尔卑斯山的副驾驶安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)，似乎在空难当天早些时候的一次飞行中，对这次航班毁灭性的俯冲进行了演练。
The initial findings by the Bureau of Investigations and Analyses show that the co-pilot repeatedly set the Germanwings plane’s altitude to 100 feet during its outbound flight to Barcelona, Spain, from Düsseldorf, Germany, on March 24.
法国调查与分析局(French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)的初步调查结果显示，3月24日，在离开德国杜塞尔多夫前往西班牙巴塞罗那的航程中，他多次把德国之翼这架飞机的高度设定在100英尺（约合30米）。
The maneuvers, which were captured by the plane’s flight data recorder, took place while the captain had left the cockpit temporarily.
这些操作被飞机的飞行数据记录仪记录了下来，它们都发生在机长暂时离开驾驶舱的时候。
“To us, it is clear that this was some kind of rehearsal,” Rémi Jouty, the bureau’s director, said in a telephone interview. “We see the same actions being taken in the same circumstances, at a moment when the co-pilot was alone in the cockpit.”
“我们认为，这显然这是某种演练，”局长雷米·茹蒂(Rémi Jouty)接受电话采访时说。“我们看到他在同样的情形下做出了相同的举动，都是在这名副驾驶单独待在驾驶舱的时候。”
The new information provides further evidence that the 27-year-old co-pilot crashed the Airbus A320 intentionally after locking the captain out of the cockpit, killing himself and 149 others, on its return leg to Düsseldorf.
这个新的信息进一步表明，在返回杜塞尔多夫的航程中，这名27岁的副驾驶在把机长锁在驾驶舱外，之后故意撞毁了这架空客A320飞机，导致自己和另外149人丧生。
An initial analysis of a cockpit audio recording retrieved from one of the plane’s so-called black boxes just days after the crash led a French prosecutor to declare that Mr. Lubitz had acted deliberately.
飞机失事几天后，经过对黑匣子中取得的一段驾驶舱音频记录进行初步分析，一名法国检察官宣布，卢比茨的行为是故意的。
Investigations by the German police later revealed that Mr. Lubitz had a history of severe depression dating from at least 2009, and that he had scoured the Internet for methods of committing suicide in the days before his final flight.
后来，德国警方的调查显示，卢比茨患有有严重的抑郁症，病史至少可追溯至2009年，并且在执飞最后一趟航班之前，他就在互联网上搜索过自杀的方法。
The French report indicates that Mr. Lubitz’s trial run was so fleeting that it went undetected by air traffic controllers, who had already given instructions for a moderate descent to 35,000 feet from 37,000 feet. The flight’s captain, Patrick Sondenheimer, also apparently did not notice the maneuvers, which occurred about 20 minutes into the flight and while he was out of the cockpit for roughly five minutes.
法国的报告显示，卢比茨的演练非常短暂，以至于空管人员都没发现。空管人员之前曾指示飞机从37000英尺（约合11300米）的高度，小幅下降至35000英尺。该航班的机长帕特里克·桑德恩海默(Patrick Sondenheimer)似乎也没注意到那些动作。它们发生在航班起飞约20分钟后，当时他离开了驾驶舱大约5分钟。
The report says the co-pilot selected a target altitude of 100 feet by turning a dial knob on the control panel several times while the plane was already in its gentle descent. To activate the selection and send the plane plummeting, he would have had to pull the knob. The maneuvers lasted from a few seconds to up to three minutes during the captain’s absence.
报告称，在飞机已开始缓慢下降时，副驾驶多次通过转动控制面板上的一个调节旋钮，选定100英尺的目标高度。要激活选择的高度并让飞机骤然下降，他还得拔起那个旋钮。在机长不在期间，这些动作的持续时间从几秒钟，到最长的三分钟不等。
French investigators did not try to explain Mr. Lubitz’s actions, but they were unambiguous about his role in the crash.
法国的调查人员并未试图解释卢比茨的行为，但对他在这起坠机事件中所扮演的角色，他们态度明确。
“We cannot presume what was going on in his mind,” Mr. Jouty said. “But based on all the information that we have gathered so far, we can affirm, categorically, that this crash was the result of an intentional act, a series of steps that, taken together, all point in the same direction.”
“我们没法推测当时他脑子里在想什么，”茹蒂说。“但根据迄今为止收集到的所有信息，我们绝对可以肯定，这次坠机是蓄意行为导致的结果，综合来看，一系列举动都指向了同一个方向。”
The report notes similarities between his control inputs on the two flights and, in its analysis of the second, ill-fated flight, supports the French prosecutor’s initial conclusions. The co-pilot “intentionally modified the autopilot instructions to order the airplane to descend until it collided with the terrain,” according to the report.
报告指出了他在两趟航班上的控制输入之间存在的相似之处，并在对第二趟，也就是失事航班进行分析时，支持了法国检方的初步结论。该报告称，副驾驶“故意修改了自动驾驶仪的指令，以命令飞机一直下降，直到与地面相撞”。
“He did not open the cockpit door during the descent, despite requests for access made via the keypad, the cabin interphone and knocks on the door,” it said.
“在下降过程中，他未打开驾驶舱的门，尽管外界通过键盘、舱内对讲机和敲门表达了进入的请求，”报告说。
Barbara Schädler, a Lufthansa spokeswoman, declined to comment on the French report. A spokeswoman for Germany’s aviation regulator did not immediately respond to telephone calls or emails requesting comment.
汉莎航空(Lufthansa)的发言人芭芭拉·谢德勒(Barbara Schädler)拒绝对法国的报告发表评论。德国航空监管机构的发言人没有立即答复请其置评的电话和电子邮件。
In the wake of the crash, Germany established a task force of aviation, medical and government experts to study the circumstances that led to the fatal descent and how it might have been averted.
坠机事件发生后，德国成立了一支由航空、医疗和政府专家组成的工作组，对导致毁灭性俯冲的情况，以及可能采取何种规避措施进行研究。
Last month, two working groups met to discuss possible changes to cockpit door security systems and to review the standards for monitoring pilots’ mental health. The group expects to publish its initial findings before the summer.
上个月，两个小组讨论了改进驾驶舱门安全系统的可能性，并重新审视了监控飞行员精神健康状况的标准。工作组预计将于今夏之前发布初步的研究结果。
The European Commission in Brussels is also expected in the coming days to announce the formation of a high-level working group that will propose rules intended to prevent similar disasters. Although Mr. Lubitz is the highest-profile example of pilot suicide, his was not an isolated case. Over the past two decades, a series of fatal airline crashes have been attributed to deliberate actions by the pilot.
布鲁塞尔的欧盟委员会(European Commission)预计未来几天也将宣布成立一个高级别工作组，它将提出一些旨在防范此类灾难再次发生的规定。尽管卢比茨是最引人关注的飞行员自杀案例，但他并不是孤例。过去20年，有一系列空难可以归咎于飞行员的蓄意举动。