BERLIN — A FEW weeks ago, Germany’s left-leaning Social Democratic Party threw a lavish campaign event for more than 200,000 people next to the Brandenburg Gate in the middle of Berlin. There were bratwurst, balloons and songs, but the party never quite took off.
柏林——几周前，德国左翼政党社会民主党(Social Democratic Party)在柏林市中心的勃兰登堡门旁大张旗鼓地举办了一场有20万人参加的竞选造势活动。现场漂浮着气球，民众吃着香肠、歌声不绝于耳，可是这场派对的气氛却不怎么活跃。
Perhaps that’s because in this Sunday’s national election, the Social Democratic Party, Germany’s oldest and proudest, is likely to endure yet another crushing defeat, just as it did in 2009, when it was voted out of government with a meager 23 percent of the vote.
这或许是因为在周日的全国选举中，社民党作为德国最老牌、最骄傲的政党，可能会像2009年一样，遭遇另一次惨败。当时社民党只赢得了区区23%的选票，从而不得不下台。
When you ask leading members of the Social Democrats to explain why on earth they are losing so much ground at a time when global capitalism has been getting such bad press, they have an easy answer. It is Chancellor Angela Merkel’s fault. The right-of-center chancellor, they feel, constantly outflanks them on the left: minimum wages, gender quotas in the workplace, same-sex marriage — they name it, she hastens to adopt it.
如果你让社民党高层解释，在当今这个全球资本主义广受批评的时代，怎么还能输得这么厉害？他们会给出一个简单答案，那就是都怪安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)。德国总理默克尔属于中右翼，但社民党却感觉，她常常会从左翼包抄社民党。无论是最低工资、工作场所的性别配额，还是同性婚姻等议题，只要社民党一提到，默克尔就会赶紧采纳。
She even ordered the shutdown of the country’s nuclear power plants, a signature goal of the Social Democrats’ ally the Green Party, after the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan.
在2011年日本福岛核灾难后，默克尔甚至还下令关闭德国的核电站，而这正是社民党的盟友绿党(Green Party)的一项主要目标。
But blaming Ms. Merkel is too easy. There is a longer story to tell.
可是指责默克尔太容易了，而这其中的原因则要复杂得多。
The Social Democratic Party, which is celebrating its 150th birthday this year, was once the world’s largest and most influential workers’ party, the global standard-bearer for the modern European welfare state. By the end of the 20th century, though, it was often more about nostalgia for past accomplishments than the present and future of its constituents.
德国社民党今年就要庆祝150岁生日了，它曾经是世界最大、最有影响力的工人政党，也曾在现代欧洲福利国家体制领域引领全球风潮。不过在20世纪末，社民党更多是在怀恋过去的成就，而不是考虑选民的现在和未来。
But by the early part of the last decade the Social Democrats, under the leadership of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, were once again ahead of the game. The party saw itself as a force for modernization; it romanticized the future, not the past. The welfare state had to be adjusted, if it was to survive at all — and had to fit an aging country with more migrants, fewer natural resources and fewer children.
但是在上一个10年的早期，社民党在格哈特·施罗德总理(Gerhard Schröder)的领导下，再一次拔得头筹。该党将自己视为现代化的力量，浪漫地描绘未来，而不是过去。要想让福利国家制度继续存在下去，就必须对它做出调整，而且还要让一个日益老龄化的国家适应移民增加、自然资源减少，以及生育率降低的局面。
Our current “Wirtschaftswunder,” or “business miracle” of economic success amid a Europe-wide recession, is largely a result of painful labor reforms put in place by Mr. Schröder and the Social Democrats beginning in 2003.
在整个欧洲陷入衰退时，德国经济当前取得的成功，或者说“经济奇迹”(Wirtschaftswunder)，很大程度上是施罗德和社民党从2003年开始实施的痛苦的劳动力市场改革所产生的结果。
The reforms paid off for the country as a whole, but they were hard on the poor. Unions lambasted Mr. Schröder, and thousands marched in the streets against him. The reforms cost his party a third of its members, many of whom fled to a new party, the Left, which draws much of its strength from those disappointed with post-Communist life in the former East Germany.
这场改革对整个国家产生了回报，但却令穷人十分痛苦。工会对施罗德大加抨击，数千人上街游行反对施罗德。改革使该党失去了三分之一的党员，他们当中许多人投奔了左派党(The Left)这个新政党，该政党的大部分力量汲取自前东德地区对共产主义终结后的生活感到失望的人们。
That membership exodus cost the Social Democrats control of the government in 2005, after which they were forced into a so-called grand coalition with Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats. In response, the Social Democrats distanced themselves from Mr. Schröder and his reforms, apologizing profusely for their greatest achievement.
党员大流失导致社民党在2005年丧失了对政府的控制，在那以后，他们被迫与默克尔的基督教民主联盟(Christian Democratic Union)组成了所谓的大联合政府。作为回应，社民党与施罗德及他推行的改革拉开了距离，并对该党取得的最大成就一再道歉。
So while Ms. Merkel may co-opt some left-wing issues as her own, on the biggest issue of all, it is the Social Democrats who have ceded the political payoff of Mr. Schröder’s reforms — low unemployment and a stable social security system — to the right.
所以，尽管默克尔可能将一些左翼议题据为己有，但在最重大的议题上，社民党人却将施罗德改革的政治收益——低失业率、稳定的社会保障体系——拱手让给了右翼。
The Christian Democrats would never dream of picking a fight with the unions, or facing demonstrators in the streets. Ms. Merkel recently admitted as much: “We would not be where we are today without the courageous steps taken by my predecessor, Chancellor Schröder.”
与工会对抗是基民盟想都不敢想的，它更不敢面对街头的示威。默克尔最近也同样承认：“如果没有我的前任施罗德总理采取的勇敢举措，我们就取得不了今天的成绩。”
All is not lost for the Social Democrats, however. For months Peer Steinbrück, the sharp-tongued, witty candidate of the party, stumbled from one gaffe to the next. He came across as arrogant, technocratic and uncaring, and as a centrist uncomfortable with taking up the left’s banner. At the lowest point of his campaign, he found himself reduced to tears during a public appearance with his wife after she expressed her support for him.
然而社民党也并不是满盘皆输。数月来，言辞尖刻、风趣的社民党候选人佩尔·施泰因布吕克(Peer Steinbrück)一次又一次失言。他被人们看做是一个傲慢、冷漠的技术官僚，一个并不情愿举起左翼大旗的中间派。在竞选中最低潮的时刻，他的妻子在与他公开亮相时，向他表示了支持，这让他潸然泪下。
But he has begun to turn things around. In a recent TV debate, Mr. Steinbrück managed to come across as decisive and politically brave by questioning Ms. Merkel’s one weakness: her unwillingness to take a stand, to run a political risk. Suddenly, Mr. Steinbrück’s technocratic arrogance looks like a strength.
而他也开始扭转局面。在最近的一次电视辩论中，施泰因布吕克表现出了决断力和政治勇气。他向默克尔的一个弱点提出了质疑，说她不愿意明确立场，也不愿意承担政治风险。突然间，施泰因布吕克身上的技术官僚式傲慢，似乎成了一种优势。
With Election Day approaching, Social Democrats have long given up on the idea of winning outright. What they dread now is doing just well enough to be forced again into a coalition with the invincible Ms. Merkel. Yet that is increasingly the most likely outcome. It’s also what an overwhelming majority of Germans want.
选举日已经临近，而社民党长期以来已经放弃了直接取胜的念头。他们现在担忧的是，得票数刚刚够多，被迫再次与不可战胜的默克尔组成联合政府。然而这却越来越多地成了最有可能出现的结果，这也是占压倒性多数的德国民众希望的结果。
Many Social Democrats fear being stifled as the junior partners to a powerful chancellor. But there is no shame in being part of a grand coalition. If the party can own up to its success, it can use its coalition role to build on that record.
许多社民党人担忧，充当强势总理手下较为弱势的伙伴，社民党会受到压制。不过，作为大联合政府中的一份子，他们没有必要感到羞耻。如果社民党能够直面自己的成功，就能利用其在联合政府中的角色，再接再厉。
It might not lead to victory right away, but one day, it could. Contrary to what many seem to think, Angela Merkel will not be around forever.
这样做可能并不能立即取得成功，但有朝一日总会成功。与许多人的想法恰恰相反，安格拉·默克尔并不会永远当权。