BERLIN — Even in the nightmarish immediate aftermath of the plane crash in the French Alps on Tuesday, Carsten Spohr, the former pilot who runs Germany’s Lufthansa airline, was sure of one thing: the co-pilot, Andreas Lubitz, 27, was “100 percent” fit to fly.
柏林——一直到在上周二法国阿尔卑斯山区的那场噩梦般空难发生不久的之后，曾经当过飞行员的汉莎航空(Lufthansa)首席执行官卡斯滕·施波尔(Carsten Spohr)一直对一件事确信无疑：27岁的副驾驶安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)，“百分之百”达到飞行条件。
Mr. Lubitz, after all, had been through the widely respected Lufthansa training system — “one of the best in the world,” Mr. Spohr said — and had met all other requirements to fly commercial aircraft.
毕竟卢比茨出自广受推崇的德国汉莎航空公司的培训体系——“全球顶尖的培训体系之一”，施波尔说——并且符合驾驶商用飞机的其他所有要求。
In the decades since it emerged from the ruins of Nazism, this country — which reunited in 1990 and in recent years has dominated Europe as its economic powerhouse — has come to define itself as orderly, rule-driven and well-engineered. It is an identity that is both an antidote to its past and a blueprint for economic success. From Mercedes-Benz cars — “the best,” says a current ad campaign — to its countless tidy towns, Germany purrs excellence.
从纳粹主义的废墟中重建的这数十年来——1990年东西两德合并，并在近年来成为主导欧洲的经济强国——德国已经树立了一个有序的、以规则为导向的、工艺精湛的形象。这种形象，既是过往历史的一剂解药，也是经济成就的蓝图。从奔驰轿车——在最新广告中宣称自己是“最好的”——到其境内数不胜数的整洁城镇，德国以优秀卓越而闻名于世。
Now Mr. Lubitz — born and raised in one of those pretty towns — has upended that well-ordered world and challenged other assumptions built into German life. As Mr. Spohr noted, the co-pilot’s terrifying deed was a singular, perhaps unstoppable disaster. Yet somehow the system failed.
卢比茨也在那种漂亮的城镇里出生长大，但现在他颠覆了这个秩序井然的世界，并对德国生活中的其他假设构成了挑战。施波尔表示，这名副驾驶令人恐怖的行为是一种怪异的、或许无法阻止的灾难。然而，系统不知何故失灵了。
Any nation would be jolted. But this one raised questions distinct to Germany. In a society that prizes process, did the system lack the ability to spot warning signs that could have stopped Mr. Lubitz before he flew a jetliner into a mountainside, killing himself and 149 others? What, if any, responsibility should German society bear? And 70 years after the end of World War II, should Germans insist that protecting privacy trumps open debate that may help avoid the worst of human behavior?
在这种情况下，任何国家都会举国震惊，但这次空难向德国提出了一些特别的问题。在一个奖励按部就班的社会中，系统是否缺乏发现危险信号的能力？而这些信号本来可以事先阻止卢比茨将一架喷气式飞机撞向山坡，造成自己和其他149人死亡。如果德国社会应该承担责任，那么又是什么样的责任呢？二战结束了70年，德国还应该坚持把保护隐私放在首位，把可能有助于避免人类最恶劣行为的公开辩论放在第二位吗？
The official response to the crash affirmed Germany’s decades-old trust in defining itself as one member of a European community. In January, Chancellor Angela Merkel leaned on the shoulder of President François Hollande of France, showing solidarity after the terrorist attacks in Paris. In this case, Ms. Merkel stood near the crash site with Mr. Hollande and the prime minister of Spain in a tableau of unity and shared grief.
德国将自身定义为欧洲社会的一份子，而官方对这起坠机事件的反应再次证明了德国对这个立场长达数十年的信任。今年1月巴黎恐怖袭击事件后，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)倚在法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的肩头，展现了团结一致的态度。本次在坠机现场的附近，默克尔与奥朗德和西班牙首相并肩而立，构成了一幅患难与共的动人画面。
But affected Germans showed a clear preference for sorting out the questions posed by events in their own way.
然而，遭遇灾祸的德国人表现出了一种明显的倾向：以自己的方式来处理事件引发的问题。
Writing from Montabaur, the Rhineland town of some 15,000 where Mr. Lubitz was born and raised, a journalist for the online edition of the respected weekly Die Zeit, Karsten Polke-Majewski, described the hostility of residents to prying questions and pondered the discomforts of self-examination.
卢比茨在莱茵兰地区的蒙塔鲍尔出生和长大，镇上约有1.5万人。著名刊物《时代》周报(Die Zeit)的网络版记者卡斯滕·波尔克-马耶夫斯基(Karsten Polke-Majewski)在这里发出报道，描述了居民们对打探消息的敌意，并对自我审视引起的这种不适感进行了思考。
“Already during the journey in, the doubts grew: What can the hometown say about someone who yanks 149 people to their deaths? What can friends, neighbors or fellow club members really know about the life of a 27-year-old man who already lived in Bremen, in America and Düsseldorf?” Mr. Polke-Majewski wrote, referring to Mr. Lubitz’s time in pilot training and his more recent residence near big Ruhrland airports. “What would one’s own teachers have said about this reporter eight years after high school graduation?
“在前往这里的途中，我就越来越感到疑惑：当一个人把149条生命推向死亡，这个人的家乡能够说些什么呢？对于一个已经前往不来梅、美国和杜塞尔多夫生活的27岁男子，他在这里的朋友、邻居或俱乐部同伴，对于他的生活真正了解多少呢？”波尔克-马耶夫斯基写到。他提及的是卢比茨接受飞行员培训的地方，以及之后在大鲁尔区的机场附近的住地。“一个记者高中毕业八年之后，当时的老师又能说点他的什么事情呢？”
“And yet,” he added, “is the warning that has been issued so loudly about how this is all just speculation not simply a way to avoid the bitter truth, because one does not want to pose any more questions?”
“可是，”他写道，“当一个人不希望提出更多的问题时，如此大声地发布警告称一切都只是猜测，这难道不是一种用来避免痛苦真相的手段而已吗？”
Privacy is treasured here even more than in most societies in Europe, where people often lack what is seen as the American — or Anglo-Saxon, to use a popular term — instinct to rush to the microphone to share grief or joy.
与大多数欧洲国家相比，隐私权在这里受到的重视还要更强烈。在欧洲，人们往往缺乏他们眼中美国人——使用一个流行词来说就是盎格鲁-撒克逊人——拥有的那种本能，即冲到话筒前和大家分享悲伤或喜悦。
Germans’ determination to guard their privacy is a legacy of Nazi and Communist rule, when the state snooped on citizens. The strength of German feeling emerged clearly in 2013, when the former contractor Edward J. Snowden revealed the sweep of United States intelligence monitoring millions of Germans and other Europeans.
德国人坚决捍卫自己的隐私，因为在纳粹和共产党统治时期，国家曾对公民进行窥探。这种情绪的力度在2013年清楚地体现出来。当时，前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光了美国情报机构广泛监听德国和其他欧洲国家大批民众的行为。
Mr. Snowden, considered a traitor by some people in the United States, became a hero to many Germans, whose vigorous debate about surveillance and data protection bolsters the resistance of some to allow digital technology freer creative rein.
一些美国人认为斯诺登是叛徒，但在很多德国人看来，他是英雄。德国在监控和数据保护方面的激烈辩论令一些计划遭受了较大阻力。在这些计划下，数字技术本将得以更自由地发挥创意。
Privacy extends to dealings with the news media, and applies, as it emerged this past week, beyond death. When Mr. Spohr was asked to explain the gap of many months in Mr. Lubitz’s training, he cited the confidentiality of medical records — although the co-pilot was dead. Not even the head of Lufthansa has access, he said.
在与新闻媒体打交道时，德国人也很注重隐私保护，而且过去一周的情况表明，亡者的隐私亦不例外。当有人要求施波尔解释，卢比茨为何在飞行训练中间休息了多个月时，他给出的解释是医疗记录是保密的——尽管这位副驾驶已经丧生。他说，即便是汉莎航空的负责人，也无法调阅医疗记录。
As The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung noted in a long report on Mr. Lubitz’s mental state this weekend, the young man described by hometown acquaintances as “quite normal” was actually anything but.
《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung)在刚刚过去的周末长篇报道了卢比茨的精神状态。文中指出，他家乡的熟人表示此人“相当正常”，但实际上根本不是这样。
“No one believed that the enemy could sit in their own cockpit,” the newspaper observed. “The psychological entry tests which Lufthansa says are passed by only one in four applicants seemed too incorruptible for that.”
“没有人相信敌人可能就坐在自己航班的驾驶舱里，”该报称。“大家觉得，录取飞行员时的心理测试堪称万无一失。汉莎航空说，只有四分之一的申请者能通过这项测试。”
Mass media attention first descended last week on the town of Haltern am See, north of Düsseldorf, which lost 16 10th-graders and two teachers who were returning from an exchange program in Spain when the Barcelona-Düsseldorf flight crashed.
上周，大众媒体的关注点开始落在了杜塞尔多夫以北的哈尔滕。该镇失去了16名10年级学生和两名教师。参加完一个在西班牙的交流项目后，他们坐上了那趟从巴塞罗那飞往杜塞尔多夫的坠毁的航班。
As often happens in Germany, teenagers cited their right not to talk to the media, or gave only their first names. A Facebook page written by mourning students at the Joseph-Koenig high school warned against giving up too much.
在德国，青少年经常行使权利，不与媒体交流，或者不透露姓氏。约瑟夫·柯尼希高中(Joseph-Koenig)的学生在一个Facebook页面上哀悼遇难者，上面警告大家不要提供太多信息。
“The reporters at the school are asking the names of the victims, please don’t give them any information, otherwise the families will have even more to contend with!” read one entry. Another said: “Can’t understand how reporters use the suffering of other people!”
“记者在学校里追问遇难者的名字，请不要向他们提供任何信息，否则遇难者家人还得应付更多事情！”一条留言写道。另一条则说：“真不明白记者怎么能利用别人的痛苦！”
The battle between preserving privacy and providing information — even as news organizations competed for readers and viewers — reached almost absurd levels after the French prosecutor named Mr. Lubitz around lunchtime on Thursday.
当法国检察官于上周四午餐时分点出了卢比茨的姓名之后，保护隐私和提供信息之间的争斗达到了近乎荒唐的地步——即便是在新闻机构争夺读者和观众的关头。