It had to have been one of the happiest experiences of their lives, people said.
人们说，那无疑是他们一生中最开心的经历之一。
Sixteen German students had spent a week in a small town outside Barcelona, immersed in Spanish language and culture, as part of an annual exchange program. Their stay over, they and their two teachers were on their way back to this small town near Düsseldorf.
16名德国学生在巴塞罗那郊区的一个小镇上度过了一周，沉浸在西班牙的语言和文化中。这是他们的年度交换项目的一部分。项目结束后，他们同两名老师一起踏上了返回邻近杜塞尔多夫的这个小镇的归途。
Many of their families were already at the airport waiting for their arrival when the unfathomable happened: The plane went down over the rugged terrain of the French Alps in Southern France.
许多家人已经在机场等候他们的归来时，不测发生了：在飞越法国南部阿尔卑斯山脉的崎岖地带时，飞机坠落了。
A few hours later, the French authorities were declaring everyone on board dead, though in the dark and cold the search was called off before the bodies were recovered.
几小时后，法国当局宣布，机上无人生还，且虽然尚未找到遇难者遗体，但因为黑暗和寒冷，搜寻工作取消了。
“It was a Spanish language exchange program and they were flying home after having what was probably the most wonderful time of their lives,” said Sylvia Loehrmann, the education minister for the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. “It’s so tragic, so sad.”
“那是一个西班牙语交换项目，他们在乘飞机回家之前度过的，可能是他们一生中最美好的时光，”北莱茵-威斯特法伦州的教育部长西尔维娅·勒尔曼(Sylvia Loehrmann)说。“太悲惨了，太令人伤心了。”
The students, 10th graders from the Joseph-König-Gymnasium here, were about 15 years old. On Tuesday morning they departed the small, Catalan town of Llinars del Vallès on the 6 o’clock train, bound for the airport in nearby Barcelona.
这些学生是这里的约瑟夫·柯尼希高中(Joseph-König-Gymnasium)的10年级学生，都在15岁左右。周二一早，他们乘坐6点的火车离开加泰罗尼亚小镇纳利纳斯-德尔巴列斯，前往邻近的巴塞罗那的机场。
During their stay, the German students had not only spent time around Llinars del Vallès but also made several trips to Barcelona, which is about a half-hour away by train.
在西班牙期间，这些德国学生不仅去了这个小镇的周边，还多次前往巴塞罗那，从镇上坐火车去那里只需要大约半小时。
Pere Grivé, a town official, said in a telephone interview that he had seen the students. “I live near the train station, so I saw them quite a few times on their way probably to some cultural sites around Barcelona,” he said. “Everybody here is in complete shock.”
该镇的官员佩雷·格里韦(Pere Grivé)在接受电话采访时称他看到过那些学生。“我就住在火车站附近，所以我看到过他们好几次，他们当时可能是在去巴塞罗那周边的一些文化场所的路上，”他说。“这里所有人都非常震惊。”
“These are tragic moments, especially for the families that are awaiting some sort of confirmation about their children, and of course also for the families that welcomed these children here,” he said.
“这是悲痛的时刻，特别是那些正等着对自己孩子情况得到某种证实的家人，当然对本地招待过这些孩子的家庭来说也一样，”他说。
In Haltern am See, a community of 38,000 in the flat countryside of western Germany, many people knew or were related to the families of the victims. During this time of year, tens of thousands of students just like them, all over the world, board planes for a week or two of foreign culture.
哈尔滕是德国西部的一个乡村地区，地势平坦，有3.8万居民。在这里，很多人认识遇难者家的家人，或和他们是亲戚。在一年里的这个时候，全世界有数万名学生像遇难学生一样登上飞机，用一两周的时间去体验异国文化。
Some students at the Joseph-König school said they had found out about the tragedy only after classes were canceled and they were sent home from school in the early afternoon.
约瑟夫·柯尼希高中的一些学生说，学校在下午一两点钟的时候停课，让学生放学回家，他们这才听说了这起事故。
Students gathered later outside the low-slung concrete-and-glass building to place flowers and red and white candles on the steps of the school and on a concrete table tennis table near the entrance.
此后，学生们聚集在学校这栋水泥和玻璃建造的低矮建筑外，在台阶以及门口旁的一个水泥乒乓球台上放置了鲜花和红白色的蜡烛。
“We’re very sad,” said a 15-year-old named Nadia, a ninth grader at the school who wanted to give only her first name. She stood with a classmate, Christopher, also 15. They said they did not know the victims well, but knew their faces, as they know almost all the faces in the school, which has only a few hundred students.
“我们非常难过，”15岁的九年级学生纳迪娅(Nadia)说。她不愿透露自己的姓氏。站在纳迪娅旁边的是她的同学克里斯托弗(Christopher)。他们说，自己不是很熟悉这些遇难的学生，但是知道他们长什么样，就像知道学校里其他人一样。这所高中只有几百名学生。
“This is the darkest day in the history of our city,” Bodo Klimpel, the mayor of Haltern am See, told reporters, his voice choking in the struggle to hold back tears. “A feeling of shock can be felt everywhere. It is about the worst thing imaginable.”
“这是我们城市历史上最黑暗的一天，”市长博多·克林培尔(Bodo Klimpel)强忍泪水哽咽地说。“这座城市受到了深深的震动。到处都可以感受到人们的震惊之情。这是可想象到的最可怕的事。”
The Joseph-König school planned to open on Wednesday morning, Mr. Klimpel said, but instead of regular classes, students and teachers would gather in the auditorium to begin working through their grief together.
克林培尔说，该校打算周三重新开门，但不会正常上课，师生们将在礼堂集合，共同应对他们的悲伤。
That work had already begun Tuesday evening, when people packed the cavernous St. Sixtus Roman Catholic Church in the center of town, listening in silence as organ music played mournfully as people lined up to accept communion. Outside, a teenage girl sobbed uncontrollably, comforted by two adults, who held her hands as they gently led her away.
这项工作在周二晚间就已经开始了，人们聚集在城镇中央宽敞的西斯笃罗马天主教堂(St. Sixtus Roman Catholic Church)里，静静地聆听风琴演奏的悲伤音乐，排队领取圣餐。在教堂外，一个十几岁的女孩忍不住抽泣起来，两名成年人安慰了她，牵着她的手，轻轻地带她离开了那里。
The church had opened its doors in the early afternoon, with social workers and psychologists providing extra assistance.
这座教堂在午后就开门了，社工和心理学家在现场提供协助。
Luca Bobb, a seventh grader who is 13, said that his cousin had planned to go on the trip but decided against it at the last minute. “I have friends who knew them,” he said.
13岁的七年级学生卢卡·鲍勃(Luca Bobb)说，他的一个表亲本来打算参加这趟旅行，但在最后时刻决定不去了。“我的一些朋友认识他们，”他说。
His mother, Ivonne Bobb, said she heard about the crash from customers at the hair salon she manages in town. Her husband, a bus driver, had often driven the two teachers who were on the plane, she said.
他的母亲伊沃内·鲍勃(Ivonne Bobb)说，她从自己在城里开的美发沙龙的顾客那里听说了空难的消息。她说，自己的丈夫是一名巴士司机，这两名老师经常搭乘丈夫的车。