DELHI, India — When midnight approaches in Old Delhi and a thick, freezing fog settles over the city, the quilt-wallah Farukh Khan sits on his corner, watching the market for his services come to life.
印度德里——临近午夜的旧德里，城市笼罩在一团浓稠、冰冷的雾中，做被子生意的法鲁克·汗(Farukh Khan)坐在自己的摊位里等待开张。
They shuffle up one by one, men desperate for sleep. The bicycle rickshaw pullers, peeling one of his 20-rupee, or 30-cent, quilts off a pile, fold their bodies into strange angles on the four-foot seats of their vehicles. The day laborers curl their bodies on the frigid sidewalk, sometimes spooned against other men for warmth.
他们一个个拖着步子走上前来，都是些困倦不堪的男人。他的那些20卢比（约合人民币2元）一张的被子堆在一起，三轮车夫们过来揭下一张，把身体弯成一个别扭的角度，躺在四英尺高的车座上。一些打零工的蜷缩在阴冷的人行道上，有时候要几个男人挤在一起取暖。
Those who cannot afford to pay Mr. Khan build fires, out of plastic if necessary, and crouch over them, waiting for the night to be over.
那些拿不出被子钱的就得自己生火，有时候连塑料都烧，他们蹲在火边，盼着夜晚快点过去。
Does any city have a more stratified sleep economy than wintertime Delhi? The filmmaker Shaunak Sen, who spent two years researching the city’s sleep vendors for a documentary, “Cities of Sleep,” discovered a sprawling gray market that has taken shape around the city’s vast unmet need for shelter. In some places, it breeds what he calls a “sleep mafia, who controls who sleeps where, for how long, and what quality of sleep.”
还有哪座城市像冬日里的德里，有如此阶层分明的夜宿经济？电影人沙乌纳克·森(Shaunak Sen)用两年时间拍摄了纪录片《睡城》(Cities of Sleep)，研究这里做夜宿生意的摊贩，他发现，由于收容住所的极度紧缺，这座城市出现了一个庞大的灰色市场。某些地方已经滋生他所说的“夜宿黑帮，他们决定谁睡在哪，睡多久，睡眠质量如何。”
The story of privatized sleep follows a familiar pattern in this city: After decades of uncontrolled growth, the city government’s inability to provide services like health care, water, transport and security has given rise to thriving private industries, efficient enough to fulfill the needs of those who can pay.
睡眠的私有化跟这座城市的一个规律是相符的：经过几十年不加管控的增长，市政府无力提供医疗、水、交通和安全等服务，从而成就私营产业的崛起，它们的效率够高，能够满足那些出得起钱的人的需求。
But shelter, given Delhi’s extremes of heat and cold, is often a matter of survival. The police report collecting more than 3,000 unidentifiable bodies from the streets every year, typically men whose health broke down after years living outdoors. Winter presents especially brutal choices to homeless laborers, who have no place to protect blankets from thieves in the daytime hours. Some try to hide them in the tops of trees.
然而，由于德里酷热和严寒的极端天气，上无片瓦的境况是可以致命的。据警方的报告，每年在街头发现的无名尸在3000具以上，这些一般都是连年露宿街头致健康崩溃的男性。无家可归的劳工在冬天要面临残酷的选择，他们在白天工作时没有地方妥善放置自己的毯子，会被偷走。有的会设法藏到树上去。
The moral quandary of making this into a business is at the center of Mr. Sen’s film, which had its premiere at a Mumbai film festival in November. One of his subjects, Ranjit, takes a protective attitude toward his regular “sleepers,” as he calls them, allowing them to drift off to sleep watching Bollywood films for 10 rupees a night. Another, a hard-nosed businessman called Jamaal, increases his price to 50 rupees, from 30, when the temperature drops.
把这事变成一桩生意的道德窘境，是森的影片关注的焦点，该片已于去年十一月在孟买一个电影节上首映。他的其中一个拍摄对象兰吉特(Ranjit)，对自己的熟客是呵护有加的，他管这些人叫他的“睡客”，他们可以看着宝莱坞电影睡去，一晚上收费10卢比。还有一个精明冷血的商人叫贾马尔(Jamaal)，会在降温时把价格从30卢比涨到50卢比。
In one scene, when a man pleads, “Sir, I am a poor man, I’ll die,” Jamaal chuckles and replies: “You’re not allowed to die. Even that will cost 1,250 rupees.”
片中有这样一段，一个人哀求说，“先生，我是个穷人，我会没命的，”贾马尔微微一笑，答道：“你没资格死。死也要花1250卢比呢。”
“Look, sleep is the most demanding master there is; no one can stop it when it has chosen to arrive,” Jamaal says in the film. “We were the first to recognize the sheer economic might of sleep.”
“你看，这地方最不通人情的主子，就是睡觉了；困劲上来，谁也挡不住，”贾马尔在片中说。“我们最早意识到睡觉是个巨大的经济力量。”
Like many of this city’s businesses, sleep vendors are both highly organized and officially nonexistent. In Mr. Khan’s neighborhood, four quilt vendors have divided the sidewalks and public spaces into quadrants, and when night falls, their customers arrange themselves into colonies of lumpy forms. Some have returned to the same spot every night for years.
和这座城市的许多生意一样，夜宿贩子也有严密的组织，但在明面上它们并不存在。在汗所在的街区，四个被子摊贩把人行道和公共空间分成四份，夜幕降临后，他们的顾客在凹凸不平的宿地自行安排位置。有的人多年来每晚都会去同一个地方睡觉。
A drunken man, his hair matted, stumbled up to Mr. Khan and begged. “Brother, please,” he pleaded, and Mr. Khan uttered a curse under his breath, then grabbed a quilt and thrust it at him.
一个头发打着结的醉汉摇摇晃晃走向汗，乞求他。“兄弟，求你了，”他说，汗低声咒骂了一句，抓起一张被子扔向他。
“If I don’t give him the blanket, he will freeze to death,” he said.
“你要不给他个盖的，他会冻死，”他说。
Earlier in the week, this had happened, just a block away from Mr. Khan’s spot. The morning street sweeper had tried to rouse a sleeping man from the sidewalk, but he pulled back the blanket and saw that the man’s feet were stiff.
这样的事，本周早些时候就发生了，就在离汗的摊位一个街区开外。早晨扫街的工人想把一个正在人行道上睡觉的人叫起来，他把那人的毯子扯开，发现他的双脚已经僵硬。
The man, who was around 35, had been stumbling around drunkenly the night before. No one knew who he was; a police officer asked some other men to go through his pockets, in hopes of finding identification, but they were empty. He covered the body with a sheet, and it lay on the sidewalk until the mortuary workers came, at sunset.
死者35岁左右，之前一天的晚上曾醉醺醺地在这一带走动。没人认识他；一个警察让别人去翻找他的口袋，希望能找到身份证明，但里面什么也没有。他用一张床单盖上尸体，一直就这样放在人行道上，直到傍晚殓房工人才来。
A cluster of “pavement dweller” deaths prompted India’s Supreme Court to rule in 2010 that the country’s large cities must provide shelter for 0.1 percent of the population. This winter, Delhi expanded its shelter system to accommodate more than 18,000, but vacancy rates are high and the number of homeless is vast — likely more than 100,000, said Ashwin Parulkar, who researches homelessness at the Delhi’s Center for Policy Research.
一系列“人行道居民”死亡事件促使印度最高法院在2010年做出裁决，要求各大城市为无家可归者提供住处，数量要达到人口的0.1%。今年冬天，德里对其收容系统进行扩容，可接纳超过1.8万人，但空置率很高，而无家可归者的数量巨大。在德里政策研究中心(Center for Policy Research)从事无家可归者研究的阿什文·帕鲁尔卡(Ashwin Parulkar)说，这个数字可能超过了10万人。
The sleep vendors, Mr. Parulkar said, thrive where the government has failed.
帕鲁尔卡说，是政府失能给夜宿摊贩带去商机。
“They are exploiting them,” he said. “There is a slew of public policies for these people that are supposed to bypass this kind of exploitation.”
“他们在利用这一点，”他说。“针对这些人设计了很多公共政策，本应该避免这样的借机牟利。”
Mr. Khan, who has been here for eight years, says he extends credit for regular customers to a limit of 100, or occasionally 200, rupees. (Several shivering men, who had spent through the night around a smoldering fire nearby, snorted in disbelief upon hearing this.) He considers boundaries between vendors so sacred that he will not step across them. He makes regular payments to the police and street sweepers so they do not disturb his sleepers, and maintains close relations with the local pickpockets so that he can tell them whom not to rob.
在这里已经经营了八年的汗说，他会给熟客一个100卢比的赊欠额度，有时候可以达到200卢比。（几个瑟瑟发抖的男人对这说法表示怀疑，他们刚刚围着一个闷燃的火堆过了一夜。）摊贩之间的边界在他眼里是神圣的东西，他一脚都不会踩过去。为了让自己的睡客免受打扰，他会定期付费给警察和扫街工人，跟当地的扒手搞好关系，这样就可以告诉他们不要去抢某些人。