Laura Ward, 41, had always attributed her excess pounds to the drugs she takes for major depression. So Ms. Ward, who is 5-foot-6 and once weighed 220 pounds, didn’t try to slim down or avoid dietary pitfalls like fried chicken.
劳拉·沃德(Laura Ward)今年41岁，身高5英尺6英寸（约1.71米），体重一度达220磅（约99.8千克）。她一直认为自己之所以会超重，完全是服用了抗抑郁症药物的缘故。因此，她既没有试图减肥，也没有想过需要避免饮食误区，如食用炸鸡等。
But in a clinical trial, Ms. Ward managed to lose more than 30 pounds doing low-impact aerobics three times a week. During the 18-month experiment, she was introduced to cauliflower and post-workout soreness for the first time. She and the other participants attended counseling sessions where they practiced refusing junk food and choosing smaller portions. She drank two liters of Diet Dr Pepper daily instead of eight.
然而，在一项临床试验中，沃德女士通过每周进行三次低强度有氧操成功地将体重减轻了30磅（约13.6千克）以上。在为期18个月的实验期间，她第一次开始食用花椰菜，并体会到了运动后肌肉酸痛的感觉。她和其他参与者参加了咨询辅导课程，并在那里学会了拒绝垃圾食品，以及在选餐时选择小份的食物。现在，她每天只喝两升健怡胡椒博士(Diet Dr Pepper)饮料，而不是像过去那样狂饮八升。
Eventually, Ms. Ward, who lives in Baltimore, realized her waistline wasn’t simply a drug side effect. “If it was only the medications, I would have never lost all that weight,” she said.
居住在巴尔的摩的沃德女士终于认识到，她的腰围问题并不单单是药物的副作用造成。“如果只是因为药物，我就永远不可能甩掉那些多余的体重，”她说。
People with serious mental illnesses, like schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or major depression, are at least 50 percent more likely to be overweight or obese than the general population. They die earlier, too, with the primary cause heart disease.
严重心理疾病，如精神分裂症、躁郁症（双相情感障碍）或重度抑郁症的患者发生超重或肥胖的可能性比一般人群高50%。他们的寿命也比一般人群要短，心脏病为其首要死亡原因。
Yet diet and exercise usually take a back seat to the treatment of their illnesses. The drugs used, like antidepressants and antipsychotics, can increase appetite and weight.
但是，与病情治疗相比，健康饮食和锻炼通常只能屈居次要地位。这些患者使用的药物，如抗抑郁药物和抗精神病药物，都可增加食欲和体重。
“Treatment contributes to the problem of obesity,” said Dr. Thomas R. Insel, the director of the National Institute of Mental Health. “Not every drug does, but that has made the problem of obesity greater in the last decade.”
“治疗可引起肥胖问题，”美国国家心理健康研究院(National Institute of Mental Health)主任托马斯·R·因泽尔(Thomas R. Insel)博士说：“虽然并非每一种药物都会产生这种副作用，但在过去的10年中，这已经使肥胖问题日益加剧。”
It has been a difficult issue for mental health experts. A 2012 review of health promotion programs for those with serious mental illness by Dartmouth researchers concluded that of 24 well-designed studies, most achieved statistically significant weight loss, but very few achieved “clinically significant weight loss.”
对于心理健康专家来说，这一直是个棘手的问题。2012年，达特茅斯大学(Dartmouth)的研究人员曾对这些严重心理疾病患者的健康促进项目进行过综述，并总结道：在24项精心设计的研究中，大部分都实现了统计学意义上的显著减重，但很少有研究实现“临床显著减重”。
But now a trial published online in The New England Journal of Medicine in March has provided the most comprehensive evidence yet that people with serious mental illness can lose weight, despite the challenges. Nearly 300 people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, schizoaffective disorder or major depression — including Ms. Ward — were assigned to either a control group given basic nutrition and exercise information or one whose members exercised together and attended weight-management sessions.
但是，3月份在《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)在线版发表的一项试验提供了迄今以来最全面的证据，表明尽管减肥对于严重心理疾病患者是一项严峻的挑战，但并非无法实现。研究人员将包括沃德女士在内的近300名精神分裂症、躁郁症、情感分裂型精神障碍或重度抑郁症患者进行了分组：对照组接受最基本的营养和运动信息，而干预组的成员则一起进行锻炼，并参加体重管理辅导课程。
The mean difference between the groups at 18 months was a modest seven pounds, but studies have shown that it is enough to reduce cardiovascular risks, the researchers noted. Nearly 38 percent of participants in the intervention group lost 5 percent or more of their initial weight, compared with only 22.7 percent of members of the control group. The difference between the groups could have been bigger, as the control group benefited from one aspect of the intervention: healthier dietary choices offered at the 10 psychiatric programs where the study took place, like baked fish instead of fried.
在18个月时，两组的平均体重差异并不大，只有7磅（约3.2千克）。但研究人员指出，研究表明该差异已足以降低心血管疾病风险。在干预组中，有将近38%的参与者的减重量达到其初始体重的5%或以上，相比之下，在对照组中该比例只有22.7%。若非对照组实际上也受益于其中一项干预，即在研究所涉及的精神健康促进项目中，有10项提供了较为健康的饮食选择，如以烤鱼替代油炸鱼类等，这两组间的差异还可能更大。
“This population can make a change,” said Dr. Gail L. Daumit, the study’s lead author and an internist at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. “There’s been a lot of stigma that they can’t do it.”
“这个人群完全有能力做出改变，”该研究的主要作者，约翰斯·霍普金斯大学医学院的内科医师盖尔·L·多米特(Gail L. Daumit)博士说，“称他们对此无能为力的说法泛滥成灾，但这些只是误导。”
Most other trials had “a narrowly defined population that excluded people with lots of co-morbidities,” said Dr. Caroline Richardson, at Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor Healthcare System in Michigan. But this study “applies to a lot of people.”
大多数其他试验“对该人群采取了狭义定义，排除了患有多种合并症的患者，”密歇根退伍军人事务部安娜堡医疗系统(Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor Healthcare System)的卡罗琳·理查森(Caroline Richardson)博士说，但这项研究“适用于很多人”。
The study suggests that weight loss may take a different trajectory for those with mental illness. Weight loss in the intervention group didn’t “peak early” and then rebound a bit, as sometimes happens in programs targeted to people without mental illness, Dr. Daumit said. Instead, it “progressed over the course of the trial.”
该研究表明，这些心理疾病患者的减重轨迹可能与一般人群不尽相同。在针对无心理疾病者的项目中，减重过程有时“在早期就可达到峰值”，然后出现略微的反弹。但在该研究的干预组中并非如此，多米特博士说，相反，减重在“整个试验过程中渐进地实现”。
Since the study, Ms. Ward said she had regained at least 15 pounds. Still, every other day she walks for 20 minutes.
沃德女士称，在研究结束之后，她至少又增重了15磅（约6.8千克）。尽管如此，她仍然每隔一天就进行20分钟步行。
Dr. Stephen J. Bartels, a professor of psychiatry at Dartmouth and co-author of the 2012 review, said the more effective interventions for people with mental illness combined education and structured activity, focusing on both exercise and diet.
达特茅斯大学的精神病学教授，上述2012年综述的共同作者史蒂芬·J·巴特尔斯(Stephen J. Bartels)博士认为，对心理疾病患者而言，结合了教育和有计划的活动，锻炼和饮食两方面并重的干预更为有效。
Classes and exercise programs seem to work better when they are available where mental health services are provided. And these programs should probably run six months or longer, he said.
当提供心理健康服务的机构同时也提供体重管理课程和锻炼项目时，它们的效果可能更好。巴特尔斯博士进一步指出，同时这些项目的持续时间至少应达到6个月。
Losing weight is challenging for anyone, let alone people with problems with executive function and memory. In Dr. Daumit’s trial, researchers gave cards to carry in wallets and purses that emphasized messages like avoiding sugary drinks.
减肥对任何人来说都具有挑战性，更不用说那些存在执行功能和记忆问题的患者。在多米特博士的试验中，研究人员向参与者们发放了可夹在皮夹和钱包中的提醒卡，以便随时向他们强调健康相关信息，如避免饮用含糖饮料等。
One of the few widely tried health-promotion programs for people with mental illnesses is InShape, available at 10 sites in New Hampshire and 9 programs in 5 other states. One of its tenets is to have patients set their own goals, with the help of a health “mentor” who also sometimes accompanies them to the gym to get them past any feelings of discomfort.
在针对心理疾病患者的健康促进项目中，InShape是为数不多的曾获得广泛试用的项目之一，在美国新罕布什尔州的10个地点和其他州的5个地点均可参与。它的原则之一是让健康“督导”帮助患者设定自身的目标，并在必要时陪伴患者去健身房锻炼，以克服任何不适感。
In a randomized controlled yearlong intervention using InShape, to be published in Psychiatric Services next month, almost half of the 133 participants had either clinically significant weight loss (5 percent or more of body weight) or clinically significant improvements on a six-minute walk, said Dr. Bartels, the lead author.
在下个月的《精神病学服务》杂志(Psychiatric Services)上将刊登一项使用InShape进行的持续一年的随机对照干预。该研究的主要作者巴特尔斯博士指出，在133名参与者中，有近一半实现了临床显著减重（体重至少减轻5%）或在六分钟步行测试中取得了临床显著改善。
“Many of them come to feel helpless about how they will avoid gaining weight,” Ken Jue, who started InShape at Monadnock Family Services in Keene, N.H., in 2003. “We try to encourage people and say, ‘You do have some control in this.’ ”
“刚开始，参与者大多都感到无助，不知该如何避免体重增加，”2003年在美国新罕布什尔州基恩市的莫纳德诺克家庭服务(Monadnock Family Services)中创始了InShape的研寿(Ken Jue)说，“我们则努力鼓励他们：‘嗨，在这场较量中，你也掌握着一定的控制权。’”