As part of Key, our mini-magazine on real estate and design, we asked seven designers to tell us about the most comfortable things they own. 
Key是《纽约时报》有关房地产和设计领域的一份微杂志。在本期当中，七名设计师与我们分享了他们认为最令人舒适的家具。
KELLY WEARSTLER (interior designer and former host of the television show “Top Design”): Terrazza sofa by Ubald Klug for de Sede
凯利·威尔斯特勒（Kelly Wearstler，室内设计师，曾主持过电视节目《室内设计大师赛》[Top Design]）：Terrazza沙发，由乌巴尔德·克卢格(Ubald Klug)为瑞士家具品牌de Sede设计
“There’s a playful aspect to these pieces. You can position them at will and crawl all over them. The craftsmanship is impeccable, the leather is sumptuously soft and the design proves comfort can be sexy. If I have a spare moment, I love to recline here with a stack of magazines.”
“这些家具挺好玩的。你可以随心所欲地把它们放置在任何地方，还可以在上面爬上爬下。它们的制造工艺无懈可击，皮革面料考究、柔软。这种设计证明，舒适与性感是可以并存的。如果我有空闲时间的话，我愿意躺在里面，旁边放上一堆杂志。”
MARC THORPE (product designer for companies like Casamania and Quinze & Milan): Zero chaise longue by Nolen Niu
马克·索普（Marc Thorpe，产品设计师，效力于Casamania、Quinze & Milan等家具制造商）：Zero躺椅(Zero Chaise Longue)，由Nolen Niu设计
“The Zero chaise is like a piece of art in our home, but it’s also probably one of our most-used pieces of furniture. The kids can sit on it and comfortably take a nap. I personally enjoy reading emails or watching movies while lounging on the chaise as much as I enjoy looking at it.”
“Zero躺椅就像我们家里的一件艺术品，不过它或许也是我们最常用的家具之一。孩子们平时喜欢坐在上面，舒舒服服地打个盹。我个人喜欢躺在上面查邮件、看电影，也喜欢静静地欣赏它。”
JASON MILLER (furniture designer and founder of Brooklyn lighting brand Roll & Hill): Pollock Executive Chair by Charles Pollock for Knoll
杰森·米勒（Jason Miller，家具设计师、布鲁克林灯具品牌Roll & Hill的创始人）波洛克大班椅(Pollock Executive Chair)，由查尔斯·波洛克(Charles Pollock)为Knoll家具公司设计
“At my desk, I use a Charles Pollock desk chair in brown leather. Thanks to the overstuffed aesthetic of the time (1963), it has more padding on the seat and back than most contemporary chairs. Also, the tilt mechanism is balanced really well, so it’s comfortable both while upright and while leaning back.”
“我在桌边放了一张查尔斯·波洛克设计的棕色皮革桌椅。软垫加厚是那个时代（1963年）的设计美学，所以这张椅子和靠背的软垫比现在大多数椅子都要厚。而且，它向后倾斜的平衡性真的很好，所以不管我是正坐还是向后靠，都很舒服。”
JOHANNA GRAWUNDER (designer for companies like Flos, Glas Italia and Boffi): Tivoli PAL radio
乔安娜·格拉文德尔（Johanna Grawunder，设计师，效力于Flos、Glas Italia、Boffi等家具品牌）：Tivoli PAL收音机
“I drag this little radio around with me all day long, from studio, to kitchen, to bathroom and back to studio. I love to listen to the radio. The little patter of news/talk radio is often my background music when I don’t want music. It is a pet.”
“我整天都和这台小收音机形影不离，我把它从工作室带到厨房，带到浴室，又带回工作室。我喜欢听收音机。在我不想听音乐的时候，收音机里播放的新闻/脱口秀往往就是我的背景音乐。它是我的宠物。”
GEORGE YABU (co-founder of the hotel-and-retail-design firm Yabu Pushelberg): Karuselli Chair by Yrjo Kukkapuro for Artek
乔治·雅布（George Yabu，酒店与零售设计公司雅布-普歇尔伯格[Yabu Pushelberg]的联合创始人）：卡路塞利椅(Karuselli Chair)，由约里奥·库卡波罗(Yrjo Kukkapuro)为阿尔泰克(Artek)家具公司设计
“This chair is one of the most comfortable chairs I’ve ever sat in. It’s made up of an interesting hard fiberglass shell that’s covered with leather and only a thin foam pad. To look at it, you’d think that you wouldn’t really want to spend much time in there, but when you sit in it, you never want to get out.”
“这张椅子是我坐过的最舒适的椅子之一。外壳别出心裁地采用了玻璃纤维材质，表面覆盖皮革，而且只有薄薄的一层泡沫垫。看它的外表，你可能会不乐意坐太久，但是一旦坐上去你就不想站起来了。”
JOE DOUCET (designer for companies like B.M.W., Target and Gucci): Mark Table by Marc Thorpe for Moroso
乔·杜塞（Joe Doucet，设计师，效力于宝马、塔吉特百货[Target]、古驰[Gucci]等公司）：马克桌(Mark Table)，由马克·索普(Marc Thorpe)为意大利家具品牌莫罗索(Moroso)设计
“Marc Thorpe gave me an early prototype of this side table as a housewarming gift for my country house. I found it so beautiful and useful that I bought the production version for my city apartment. It nestles into my sofa and provides the perfect surface for my laptop during my daily hour of evening work.”
“我搬进乡间别墅时，马克·索普给我一张早期的马克桌样品，作为乔迁礼物。我发现它既美观又实用，所以又为自己在城里的公寓买了一张量产版的马克桌。我把它放在沙发边，平常晚上工作时，正好可以在上面放笔记本。”
KELLY BEHUN (interior and furniture designer): Lampada Poltrona by Luigi Caccia Dominioni
凯利·贝胡恩（Kelly Behun，室内设计师、家具设计师）：Lampada Poltrona沙发灯，由路易吉·卡恰·多米尼奥尼(Luigi Caccia Dominioni)设计
“I adore this reading lamp. It’s so versatile and has a lovely soft glow. Also, it’s on a weighted leather strap and can be moved around to wherever you are. For me it feels like someone is nestled just over my shoulder, holding a candle for me to read by.”
“我喜欢这盏台灯。它转动起来太灵活了，光线也很柔和温馨。而且，这盏灯安装在一根挂有坠物的皮带上，可以随手移动。对我来说，使用这盏灯时，感觉就像有人站在我身后，拿着蜡烛，帮我照亮书页。”