Over the last several decades, it has become accepted wisdom that consuming saturated fat, the type found in meat and butter, is bad for you. Starting in the 1960s, studies showed convincingly that saturated fat raises cholesterol levels and that these elevated levels, especially of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or LDL (the so-called bad cholesterol), increase heart disease. Studies also showed that consuming polyunsaturated fats — safflower, corn and soybean oils — reduced people’s levels of overall cholesterol and LDL and should be encouraged.
近几十年来，有件事已经获得大家的普遍共识：食用常见于肉类和黄油中的饱和脂肪，对人体健康有害。从20世纪60年代开始，就有研究言之凿凿地表明，饱和脂肪会升高胆固醇水平，尤其是低密度脂蛋白或称LDL（也就是所谓“坏胆固醇”），从而增加心脏病的发病。研究同样表明，食用多不饱和脂肪——红花油、玉米油和大豆油——能降低总胆固醇和LDL水平，值得鼓励。
But new studies may be upending those assumptions. Researchers with the National Institutes of Health and other organizations recently resurrected the results of a long-overlooked Australian study conducted from 1966 to 1973, in which one group of men with heart disease increased omega-6-rich polyunsaturated fat intake to 15 percent of calories, while reducing saturated fat intake to less than 10 percent. Another group of men with heart disease continued their normal diets.
但是新的研究也许能推翻这种假设。美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)等组织的研究人员最近重新审视了1966到1973年间进行的一项被长期忽视的澳大利亚研究。研究中一组心脏病患者饮食中15%的热量来自富含Ω-6多不饱和脂肪的食物，而饱和脂肪减少到10%以下。另一组心脏病患者则继续照常饮食。
The men were followed for an average of 39 months, and those on the polyunsaturated-rich diet lowered their cholesterol levels by an average of 13 percent. But they also were more likely to die, and in particular to die of a heart attack, than those who stuck with their usual diet, which consisted of about 15 percent saturated fat.
平均随访时间为39个月，吃富含多不饱和脂肪饮食的患者，胆固醇水平平均降低了13%。但是与保持日常饮食、食物中包括了约15%饱和脂肪的那组相比，他们的死亡风险更大，因心肌梗死而病故的风险尤其显著。
This study — the results of which weren’t fully analyzed when it was conducted in the early days of enthusiasm for polyunsaturated oils — adds to a small but unsettling body of data suggesting that consuming polyunsaturated oils, even though they reliably lower cholesterol, may nevertheless increase your risk of heart disease.
这一研究结果在当时并未得到充分分析，因为那会儿正好是对多不饱和脂肪油类研究热情高涨的早期时代——现在却为一组小型而令人不安的数据增加了分量：食用多不饱和（脂肪）油类，虽然它们毫无疑问能降低胆固醇，但也许仍会增加你的心脏病风险。
In broader terms, the new analysis muddies the already murky issue of just how diet affects heart-disease risk and health in general. Polyunsaturated oils, while decreasing cholesterol, may simultaneously promote inflammation throughout the body, says Philip C. Calder, a professor of nutritional immunology at the University of Southampton, in England, who wrote an editorial accompanying the new analysis. This inflammation may initiate heart disease and “outweigh any possible good effect” of the oils.
更宽泛地来说，新的分析使得原本已不甚明朗的饮食如何影响心脏病风险和整体健康的问题雪上加霜。菲利普·C·卡尔德(Philip C. Calder)是英国南安普敦大学(University of Southampton)的营养免疫学教授，为新分析写了一篇编者按，他说多不饱和脂肪油类在降低胆固醇的同时，可能也促进了体内的炎性反应，这种炎性反应可能启动心脏病，并抵销油脂“任何可能的健康效应”。
More fundamentally, we don’t fully understand how high cholesterol levels contribute to heart disease. Some would argue, Calder wrote in an e-mail, that “the link between cholesterol and heart disease is not actually as strong as we think.” That possibility, while startling, lends credence to other studies showing that assiduously sticking to a diet rich in fish oils, another heart-healthful fat, doesn’t necessarily protect people from heart attacks or strokes; and that those who carry extra pounds, even to the point of being slightly obese, may live longer than people who weigh less.
更基本的是，我们尚未完全了解高胆固醇水平在心脏病中究竟扮演了一个怎样的角色。卡尔德在电子邮件中说到，有些人也许会认为“胆固醇和心脏病之间的关系实际上没有我们以为的那么紧密”。这种可能性虽然令人吃惊，但也印证了另外一些研究，这些研究表明严格坚持富含鱼油——另一种有益心脏的脂肪——的饮食，并未有效保护人们免受心肌梗死或中风的风险；而稍微超重的人，甚至达到轻度肥胖的程度，也可能比那些瘦子活得长。
None of this is to say that there are no links between diet and heart disease or longevity. We know that synthetic trans fats seem particularly risky. And that the interplay between what you eat and your particular genetics may be primary. But the truth is, at this point, we don’t truly understand how it all works. Calder said the new analysis might prompt some people to recommend lowering the use of vegetable oils, substituting animal fats instead, but that he wasn’t ready to come to that conclusion.
以上种种并不是要说明饮食和心脏病或长寿之间毫无关系。我们知道人工合成的反式脂肪似乎特别危险。而你的饮食与你特定基因之间的关系至关重要。但事实上，目前来说，我们并不真正知道它是如何起效的。卡尔德说新的分析可能促进人们建议减少植物油的使用，用动物油取而代之，但他目前还不确定是否应得出这个结论。