TAGAJO, Japan — Shusaku Tani is employed at the Sony plant here, but he doesn’t really work.
日本多贺城——谷修作（Shusaku Tani，音译）受雇于索尼(Sony)位于这里的工厂，但实际上他却无事可做。
For more than two years, he has come to a small room, taken a seat and then passed the time reading newspapers, browsing the Web and poring over engineering textbooks from his college days. He files a report on his activities at the end of each day.
在长达两年多的时间里，他每天去工厂里的一间小屋，坐下来，然后看报、上网、阅读大学时的工程学课本来打发时间。每天结束的时候，他都要提交一份关于自己活动的报告。
Sony, Mr. Tani’s employer of 32 years, consigned him to this room because they can’t get rid of him. Sony had eliminated his position at the Sony Sendai Technology Center, which in better times produced magnetic tapes for videos and cassettes. But Mr. Tani, 51, refused to take an early retirement offer from Sony in late 2010 — his prerogative under Japanese labor law.
雇佣了谷修作32年的索尼打发他坐进这间小屋是因为他们没法解雇他。索尼已经取消了他在索尼仙台技术中心(Sony Sendai Technology Center)的岗位，在形势较好的时候，该中心生产用于制作录像带和录音带的磁带。但51岁的谷修作拒绝了索尼在2010年年底提出的提前退休的安排。根据日本劳动法的规定，他有权这么做。
So there he sits in what is called the “chasing-out room.” He spends his days there, with about 40 other holdouts.
因此，他才坐在所谓的“驱逐屋”里。和他一起在那里枯坐终日的还有另外约40个拒不离开的人。
“I won’t leave,” Mr. Tani said. “Companies aren’t supposed to act this way. It’s inhumane.”
“我不会离开的，”谷修作说，“公司不应该这么做，这太不人道了。”
The standoff between workers and management at the Sendai factory underscores an intensifying battle over hiring and firing practices in Japan, where lifetime employment has long been the norm and where large-scale layoffs remain a social taboo, at least at Japan’s largest corporations.
仙台索尼工厂员工和管理层之间的僵局反映出日本涉及雇佣和解聘操作的冲突日益激烈，在日本，终身雇佣长期以来是一种常态，大规模裁员依然是一种社会禁忌，起码在日本最大的一些公司里还是这样。
Sony wants to change that, and so does Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. As Japan’s economic recovery slows, reducing the restraints on companies has become even more important to Mr. Abe’s economic plans. He wants to loosen rigid rules on job terminations for full-time staff.
但索尼和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)都希望改变这一点。随着日本经济复苏的放缓，对安倍晋三的经济计划来说，减少企业面临的限制变得更重要了。他希望放松公司解雇全职员工时面临的严格规定。
Economists say bringing flexibility to the labor market in Japan would help struggling companies streamline bloated work forces to better compete in the global economy. Fewer restrictions on layoffs could make it easier for Sony to leave loss-ridden traditional businesses and concentrate resources on more innovative, promising ones.
经济学家表示，为日本的劳动力市场带来灵活性，有助于困境中的公司简化臃肿的员工团队，以便更好地参与全球化经济的竞争。减少裁员限制会让索尼更容易从亏本蚀利的传统业务中脱身，将资源集中在更具有创新性、前景更好的业务上。
“I have a single wish for Japan’s electronics sector, and that’s labor reform,” said Atul Goyal, a technology analyst at Jefferies & Company.
“对于日本的电子业，我只有一个希望，那就是劳动力改革，”杰富瑞投资银行(Jefferies & Company)科技行业分析师阿图尔·戈亚尔(Atul Goyal)说。
Sony said it was not doing anything wrong in placing employees in what it calls Career Design Rooms. Employees are given counseling to find new jobs in the Sony group, or at another company, it said. Sony also said that it offered workers early retirement packages that are generous by American standards: in 2010, it promised severance payments equivalent to as much as 54 months of pay. But the real point of the rooms is to make employees feel forgotten and worthless — and eventually so bored and shamed that they just quit, critics say.
索尼称，让员工待在所谓的职业规划室(Career Design Room)没有任何不当。索尼称员工会得到咨询和建议，以便在索尼集团内部或是其他公司找到新工作。索尼还表示公司为员工提供了提前退休计划，若按美国的标准来看，这些补助很是慷慨：2010年，索尼承诺的遣散费相当于54个月的工资。但批评人士说，那些小屋的真正意图是让员工觉得自己被遗忘了、没有价值了，到最后实在太无聊和太羞愧，只好辞职。
Labor practices in Japan contrast sharply with those in the United States, where companies are quick to lay off workers when demand slows or a product becomes obsolete. It is cruel to the worker, but it usually gives the overall economy agility. Some economists attribute the lack of a dynamic economy in Western Europe to labor laws similar to Japan’s that restrict layoffs.
日本的用工操作同美国的形成了鲜明对比，在美国，如果需求降低，或产品变得过时，公司会很快裁员。这对员工来说很残忍，但通常却让整体经济更具灵活性。一些经济学家将西欧经济缺乏活力归咎于劳动法，那些法律和日本限制裁员的劳动法类似。
Sony, a sprawling company with more than 146,000 employees, is under pressure. It has been outmaneuvered by more nimble competitors and its executives are trying to remake the company. Fixing Sony is especially critical after it snubbed the American activist investor Daniel S. Loeb’s push to spin off part of Sony’s entertainment business. Its shares have fallen almost 10 percent since Sony rejected his proposal earlier this month.
规模庞大的索尼有员工14.6万多人，它面临着巨大压力。更灵活的竞争对手一直在赶超它，其公司高管也正试图对公司进行改革。在索尼回绝了美国积极型投资者丹尼尔·S·勒布(Daniel S. Loeb)剥离部分娱乐业务的请求后，重整索尼变得尤为关键。自本月早些时候拒绝了勒布的提议后，索尼的股价已经下跌了近10%。
Critics of labor changes say something more important is at stake. They warn that making it easier to cut jobs would destroy Japan’s social fabric for the sake of corporate profits, causing mass unemployment and worsening income disparities. For a country that has long prided itself on stability and relatively equitable incomes, such a change would be unacceptable.
批评用工改革的人说，这可能会影响到更重要的东西。他们警告称，让裁员变得更容易，只会让企业获利而摧毁日本的社会结构，导致大规模失业，拉大收入差距。对一个长期以稳定和收入相对公平为荣的国家而言，这样的改变难以接受。
“That’s not the kind of country Japan should aim to be,” said Takaaki Matsuda, who leads the Sendai chapter of Sony’s union.
“那不应该是日本努力要成为的国家，”索尼工会仙台技术中心分会的负责人松田贵明（Takaaki Matsuda，音译）说。
It would be a radical change. A combination of lifetime employment, seniority-based pay and intense worker loyalty to the company was credited for Japan’s postwar economic miracle, as stability and growth went hand in hand. But when the Japanese economy stumbled in the early 1990s, companies found that Japan’s rigid labor practices made downsizing impractical. Instead, unneeded workers were left with little to do besides gaze out of the window, giving rise to the term “madogiwa zoku” or the “window seat tribe.”
这将是一个根本性的变化。人们曾认为，正是在稳定与增长并行的前提下，终身雇佣、以工作年限为基础的收入，还有员工强烈的忠诚造就了日本战后的经济奇迹。但是20世纪90年代初，当日本经济出现下滑时，企业普遍发现，日本严苛的用工制度使裁员基本不可行。这导致，对公司不再有用的员工整天无所事事，只有发呆看着窗外，这造就了“窗边族”(madogiwa zoku)一词。
Proponents of employment change point out that stiff protections for workers have prompted companies to make major cuts in hiring, shrinking opportunities for scores of younger Japanese. Sony hired 160 fresh college graduates this fiscal year, compared with about 1,000 in 1991.
支持用工制度改革的人指出，僵化的员工保护使得公司必须大幅减少新人的雇佣，这又令日本年轻一代失去了很多机会。本财年，索尼共雇佣了160名新毕业的大学生，较1991年的约1000人大幅减少。
Companies have also adjusted by using a secondary class of temporary or part-time workers they can more easily let go. “In reality, hidden inequalities already exist in Japan,” said Fumio Ohtake an economist at Osaka University.
公司也采取了一些调整措施，雇佣签署次等合同的临时或兼职员工，因为辞退这些人会更容易一些。“事实上，在日本，不公平现象已经悄然存在了，”大阪大学(Osaka University)经济学家大竹文雄(Fumio Ohtake)说。
Still, some fear that Mr. Abe’s changes are not so much pro-market as just pro-business. A weaker yen has brought exporters like Sony windfall profits, yet no substantial increases in salary have followed, and many manufacturers continue to shift production overseas.
但一些人还是担心，安倍晋三的改革与其说是对市场有利，不如说是对企业有利。日元的贬值为索尼等出口商带来了意外的利润，但却并没有因此大幅抬高员工工资，许多生产商仍继续将生产转移到海外。
The delicacy of labor changes has forced Mr. Abe to tread gingerly. He took the issue off the agenda when he focused on parliamentary elections in July. After a big win for his party, it is back. But a new plan under discussion would ease firing rules only in Japan’s three biggest cities.
用工制度改革的敏感性使安倍晋三行事格外小心。7月，当他集中精力进行议会选举时，就绝口不提此事。当他所在的政党大获全胜之后，又重将此事列入议事日程。但是目前正在讨论的一个新计划将只会放松日本三个最大城市的解聘制度。
While details to the government plans are still being determined, Mr. Tani’s managers at Sony are already upping the ante. Starting this month, the company has ordered him to work 12-hour shifts on an assembly line at a Sony plant in Toyosato, more than an hour’s drive away. He says he will comply.
政府计划的具体细节仍有待决定，但谷修作在索尼的经理已升级了他们的行动。从这个月开始，公司要求他开始在丰乡町索尼工厂的装配线上翻班，一个班12小时，那里距他家需开车一个小时。他说，会服从安排。
For Miwako Sato, who joined Sony right out of high school in 1974, the changes are a betrayal of an accepted social contract in Japan. She put in 12-hour shifts at the Sendai factory, working with huge rolls of magnetic film, and watched Sony grow into a global electronics powerhouse.
佐藤美和子（Miwako Sato，音译）1974年高中一毕业就加入了索尼，对她来说，这样的改变违背了日本现有的社会契约。她过去在仙台工厂做12小时的倒班工作，面对着巨大的磁带卷不停劳作，她看着索尼成长为一个全球性的巨型电子产品生产商。
But technology moved on, and Sony was increasingly usurped by nimbler rivals. In 2003, the factory offered the first of many early retirement programs.
但是科技更新换代，更加灵活的竞争对手不断赶超索尼。2003年，索尼推出了第一批提前退休计划。
Two years ago, a destructive tsunami swept through the factory, sending workers scrambling to the roof. The damage prompted Sony to move its battery and optical devices operations, and the company later sold its chemical products business, eliminating more jobs at the plant.
两年前，一次毁灭性的海啸扫荡了索尼这座工厂，工人们纷纷爬上屋顶。灾难造成的破坏迫使索尼转移了电池和光学设备的生产线，公司后来也出售了它的化学产品业务，随之减少了更多的岗位。
In February, just two years shy of Mrs. Sato’s retirement, a manager had blunt news: “Your job no longer exists.” She refused to quit, and was dispatched to the chase-out room. There she completed an online degree in nursing the elderly. But she didn’t quit. Since last month, she has been assigned to do data entry.
2月，距佐藤美和子退休只剩两年时间，一位经理带来了一个突然的消息：“你的岗位没有了。”她拒绝辞职，因此被派去坐在那间“驱逐屋”里。在那里，她完成了看护老年人的在线课程学习。但是她没有辞职。从上个月开始，她被分配做数据输入。
Sony’s labor union estimates that the plant’s work force is half the size it was three years ago.
索尼的工会估计，这座生产基地的员工人数是三年前的一半。
Mrs. Sato said that in the factory’s heyday, workers called Sony the Sony Maru, or the Sony Ship. “Everybody was on board, our fates tied together,” she said. “Not anymore.”
佐藤美和子表示，在这间工厂的全盛时期，工人们称索尼为索尼丸(Sony Maru)，即索尼船。“每个人都在船上，我们的命运紧紧相连，”她说，“但一切已经变了。”