FRANKFURT — Few countries have invested more heavily in Russia than Germany has, rushing in to exploit new trade opportunities that opened up after the Cold War ended. More than 6,000 German companies set up operations there, and Russia became a major customer for German cars, pharmaceuticals and machinery.
法兰克福——德国在俄罗斯的投资之巨，很少有哪个国家能匹敌，资金在冷战结束后纷纷涌入，以期抓住新生的贸易机会。在俄罗斯有业务的德国公司在6000家以上，那里已经成为德国汽车、医药和机械产业的主要客户。
But now the rush is going in reverse. The announcement last week by the German chemical giant BASF that it had canceled a planned deal with Gazprom, the Russian energy giant, involving natural gas extraction and distribution, was the latest example of how German companies are delaying projects and investment.
但如今潮流发生了反转。德国化工巨头巴斯夫公司(BASF)上周宣布，取消原计划和俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)签订的天然气开采和分销协议，这是德国公司纷纷推迟项目和投资的最新一例。
Opel, the car-making unit of G.M. based in Germany, has laid off workers at its plant in St. Petersburg; Volkswagen shut down an auto plant in Kaluga intermittently because of poor demand; and Fresenius, a health care company, canceled a joint venture with Russian partners.
通用汽车(G.M.)旗下的德国汽车制造公司欧宝(Opel)对圣彼得堡工厂进行了裁员；大众(Volkswagen)由于需求不足，间歇性地关停在卡卢加的一座工厂；医疗保健公司弗雷泽纽斯(Fresenius)取消了和俄罗斯合作伙伴的一个合资项目。
More than a third of German companies with operations in Russia are likely to cancel investment projects, though only a small number of German companies have abandoned Russia completely, according to a survey this month by the German-Russian Chamber of Commerce.
据德俄商会(German-Russian Chamber of Commerce)本月进行的调查，在俄运营的德国公司有超过三分之一可能要取消投资项目，不过只有一小部分德国公司彻底放弃了俄罗斯。
The conflict in Ukraine has rattled Germany’s leaders as perhaps no others outside Russia. It is not just business that has been put on hold: Countless forums for partnership like major political gatherings have been trimmed back or put on ice. Although Germany’s politicians continue to lead diplomatic attempts to ease the Ukraine crisis, trust in Moscow has evaporated. Everyone knows that it will take a long time to repair a rift that has revived fears of a new division of Europe — roughly, pitting Russia against the European Union — and markedly reduced commerce once considered a reliable source of growth.
在俄罗斯以外的国家中，德国的领导人可能是对乌克兰冲突最感忧虑的。受阻的不只是商业：包括大型政治聚会在内的无数合作论坛已经削减规模或暂时搁置。德国政治人士仍然在采取外交举措以缓解乌克兰危机，但对俄罗斯的信任已经消磨殆尽。这条裂痕令人担心欧洲会再度陷入分裂，大致上是俄罗斯与欧盟进行对抗。所有人都知道需要用很长时间才能弥合裂痕，而它已经明显减少了曾一度被认为会带来稳定增长的商业活动。
The impact on Russia is broader, because it is much more dependent on German goods and investment than vice versa. Russia is hobbled by economic sanctions for its intervention in Ukraine, the devalued ruble and a severe drop in the price of oil, its main export. Russia is expected to suffer a steep recession next year, while Germany is forecast to grow 1 percent.
俄罗斯在其中受到的影响更大，因为它对德国商品和投资的依赖，远远超过德国对俄国的依赖。由于干预乌克兰而受到的经济制裁，卢布贬值及其主要出口产品石油的价格暴跌，都令俄罗斯举步维艰。俄罗斯在明年可能会陷入严重的衰退，而德国的前景预测是1%的增长。
But Russia’s problems have helped slow Germany’s momentum. Exports to Russia fell 22 percent through October compared with the same period a year earlier. Ten percent of all German companies export to Russia, and the lost sales are another setback at a time when Germany is struggling to improve economic growth.
但俄罗斯的问题拖慢了德国的步伐。对俄罗斯的出口截至十月底相比去年同期下降了22%。德国公司中有10%会向俄罗斯出口产品，在德国正艰难地提高经济增长之际，这些销售损失构成了制约。
The uncertainty hanging over Germany’s strong business ties with Russia, which are more than double the value of Russian trade with the United States, is in marked contrast to the optimism and relative stability of recent years. And it has been reflected in increasingly acrimonious exchanges in Germany’s political, diplomatic and intellectual elite over how to shape relations with Moscow.
两国建立了强有力的商业纽带，其价值是俄罗斯与美国贸易的两倍，目前，这条纽带面临的不确定性，和近年的乐观情绪与相对稳定形成强烈对比。德国政治、外交和知识界精英对如何处理与莫斯科的关系展开了越来越激烈的争论。
Last weekend, the two most prominent Social Democrats in Chancellor Angela Merkel’s grand coalition government of center right and center left — the party leader, Sigmar Gabriel, and the foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier — voiced concern that sanctions might hobble the stricken Russian economy, and they opposed tightening them.
上周末，总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)所在的中右和中左大联合政府中的社会民主党(Social Democrats)两位显要人物——党魁西格玛尔·加布里尔(Sigmar Gabriel)和外交部长施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)表示，制裁会制约陷入困境的俄罗斯经济，对此他们感到担忧，并反对进一步加强制裁。
Ms. Merkel, clearly frustrated with the behavior of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, has so far taken a harder line. But the potential for conflict within Ms. Merkel’s government complicates her efforts to use Germany’s close ties with Russia as leverage to fashion a solution to the crisis in Ukraine.
默克尔显然对俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的所作所为深感烦扰，迄今为止保持了强硬的姿态。她在用和俄罗斯的紧密关系作筹码，努力为乌克兰危机寻找一个解决方案，但政府内部潜在的冲突令她的行动变得复杂起来。
Business groups, normally strong backers of Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats, have agreed with the Social Democrats on Russia and warned against using economic means to put pressure on Mr. Putin.
商业团体通常是默克尔所在的基督教民主联盟(Christian Democrats)的坚强后盾，但这次在俄罗斯问题上却站在了社民党一边。它们对动用经济手段来向普京施压发出了警告。
“Sanctions are not the proper means to resolve this political crisis,” Eckhard Cordes, a former Daimler executive who is chairman of the Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations, which represents companies doing business in the former Soviet bloc, said in an email. “The West cannot have an interest in destabilizing the Russian economy or Russian politics.”
“制裁不是解决这场政治危机的恰当途径，”曾为戴姆勒(Daimler)高管的东欧经济关系委员会(Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations)主席艾克哈德·科德斯(Eckhard Cordes)通过邮件接受采访时写道。该委员会代表在前苏联势力圈国家做生意的企业的利益。“让俄罗斯经济或政治陷入动荡决不符合西方的利益。”
But sanctions are hardly the only factor destabilizing the Russian economy. Well before Russia annexed Crimea, German businesses had become disenchanted with what they saw as increased hostility to foreign investors.
然而，制裁绝非令俄罗斯经济陷入动荡的唯一因素。早在俄罗斯吞并克里米亚之前，德国企业就不那么眷恋它了，因为在它们看来，俄罗斯对外国投资者的敌意已然加深。
Everyone “is moving in very low gear,” said a businessman who has had dealings with Russia for the past decade. Like many people operating in Russia, he did not want to be quoted by name for fear of upsetting already delicate ties.
与俄罗斯打了十年交道的一名商人表示，每个人“都动弹地非常缓慢”。与许多在俄有业务的人士一样，由于担心会破坏本已脆弱的关系，此人要求不具名。
“The Germans want to be there,” the man said. But “they’re afraid of what the volatile Russian market is going to do.”
“德国人肯定是想待在那里的，”他说。但“他们担心动荡的俄罗斯市场会产生什么后果。”
The number of German companies abandoning Russia remains small, about 3 percent of the total, according to the German-Russian Chamber of Commerce. Most companies hope that the Ukraine crisis will blow over, and they will be able to return to business as usual.
根据德俄商会的统计，放弃俄罗斯市场的德国公司仍很少，约为总数的3%。多数企业希望乌克兰危机会烟消云散，这样它们就能重回过去的轨道。
A few companies continue to invest. Schaeffler, a German maker of ball bearings and other components used by the auto industry, opened a factory in October, its first in Russia, in Ulyanovsk, about 550 miles east of Moscow.
也有少数企业在继续投资。今年10月，制造滚动轴承等机动车部件的德国公司舍弗勒(Schaeffler)在俄罗斯的第一家工厂开始生产。这家工厂位于莫斯科以东约550英里（约合890公里）的乌里扬诺夫斯克。
But 41 percent of German companies in Russia have slowed investment there, according to the survey of 200 firms by the chamber of commerce, while 36 percent said they would cancel projects unless conditions improved. And 28 percent said they planned to dismiss Russian workers.
不过，商会对200家公司进行的一项调查显示，41%的在俄德国企业减缓了投资步伐；36%表示将取消一些项目，除非环境得以改善。28%的企业声称计划遣散俄罗斯员工。
The economic fallout has had political repercussions in Germany, where memories linger of the carnage that the Nazis and Soviets inflicted on each other during World War II. Fear of renewed tension or even conflict is palpable, and understanding for Mr. Putin is greater than in the United States.
经济上的后果已在德国激起了政治涟漪。在这里，二战期间纳粹与苏联在彼此身上施加的暴行留下了挥之不去的记忆。人们可以感知到对两国关系重新紧张起来乃至发生冲突的担忧之情，而且他们对普京的谅解程度也超过了美国人。
Political tensions are likely to intensify as sanctions against Russia come up for renewal in March, a year after Moscow annexed Crimea.
针对俄罗斯的制裁措施定于莫斯科吞并克里米亚的一周年之际更新。随着明年3月这一日期的临近，政治上的紧张态势很可能进一步加剧。
“Anyone who believes that forcing Russia economically to its knees will lead to more security in Europe is wrong,” Mr. Steinmeier, the foreign minister, told the weekly newsmagazine Der Spiegel. Having Russia’s economy in chaos “cannot be in our interest,” he added.
“如果有人相信，在经济上迫使俄罗斯屈服会让欧洲变得更安全，那么他就是错误的，”外交部长施泰因迈尔告诉《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)。令俄罗斯经济陷入混乱“决不符合我们的利益，”他还表示。
Mr. Gabriel, the leader of the Social Democrats, said pointedly that calls for intensifying sanctions were wrong.
社民党党魁加布里尔刻意强调，要求加大制裁的呼声并不正确。
Gerhard Schröder, Ms. Merkel’s predecessor as chancellor and an avowed friend of Mr. Putin, was among 60 prominent signatories of an appeal entitled, “Again War in Europe?/Not in Our Name.”
在默克尔之前担任德国总理的格哈特·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)公开宣称自己是普京的朋友。在题为《欧洲又要开战？不要以我们之名》(Again War in Europe?/Not in Our Name)的请愿书上，有60位要人联署，施罗德就赫然在列。