Imagine this: Your dinner guests are seated around the table, waiting for you to parade out the main course. You triumphantly carry it in on a platter. Oohs and ahs ensue.
想象一下这个场面：你的晚宴客人们围坐在桌边，等你隆重地端出主菜。你得意地把它放在大浅盘中端出来。随之而来的是客人们“噢”“啊”的赞叹声。
What did you picture on that platter? A bronzed turkey, perhaps? A hulking roast? Lobster à l’Américaine? It probably wasn’t vegetables, which have long been entrenched in side-dish territory. But the wow factor isn’t restricted to animal flesh. I’d argue that elevating vegetables to star status is a better display of your culinary chops — and a more unconventional and surprising one — than showcasing a piece of meat.
你想象中那个盘子里是什么?一只古铜色的火鸡？一大块烤肉？北美龙虾？你大概不会想到蔬菜，因为很久以来，蔬菜已经被列入配菜范畴。但是不只有肉菜才能收到“哇”的赞叹声。我认为，把蔬菜提升到明星地位比展示一块肉更能显示你的烹饪才能，因为它不循常规，更令人惊喜。
The recipes here are vegetarian and nearly vegan. (I love carrots with olive oil, but butter makes them otherworldly.) They don’t rely on either animal products or heavy carbs as belly-filling crutches, but instead allow the vegetables themselves to become centerpieces. There’s squash stuffed with more squash that has been enriched by dried porcinis; a whole head of cauliflower boiled and then roasted until gloriously browned; and the aforementioned carrots, slow-roasted until soft and deeply caramelized. (These are an adaptation of the “forgotten carrots” served by Neil Borthwick at Merchants Tavern in London; they actually do require a little bit of attention.)
这里提到的菜谱都是素食——几乎是严格素食（我喜欢用橄榄油烤胡萝卜，但是黄油让它们超凡脱俗）。它们既不依靠动物制品，也不依靠富含碳水化合物的东西来增添饱腹感，而是以蔬菜为主。南瓜里填充着用牛肝菌添味的小南瓜块；花菜头煮熟，烤成金黄；上面提到的胡萝卜慢烤，直至变软、变焦（伦敦商人酒馆[Merchants Tavern]的尼尔·博思威克[Neil Borthwick]供应一种改良版的“被遗忘的胡萝卜”，的确值得关注）。
And yes, they can be main courses. The squash is quite substantial, with plenty of extra stuffing to serve on the side. The cauliflower and carrots could just as easily accompany larger dishes, but their supple textures and rich sauces — romesco and brown-butter vinaigrette, respectively — help them register as meaty and filling. This isn’t to say that they don’t need side dishes, but that they’re beautiful and complex enough to command center stage. If that makes you nervous, you can always serve a little bit of meat on the side.
是的，它们可以是主菜。南瓜内容很充实，大量多余的馅料可以当配菜上桌。花菜和胡萝卜可以和更大的菜搭配，但是它们柔软的质地和丰富的酱汁——分别是杏仁辣椒酱和黑黄油醋酱——让它们具有肉感，足以饱腹。这不是说它们不需要配菜，但是它们够漂亮、够复杂，可以占据中心舞台。如果那让你感到紧张，你总可以上点肉菜当配菜。
Recipe 1:
食谱一：
Slow-Roasted Carrots With Brown-Butter Vinaigrette
慢烤胡萝卜搭配黑黄油醋酱
TOTAL TIME: About 1 1/4 hours
总计用时：约1小时15分钟
INGREDIENTS
配料：
2 pounds large carrots
2磅大胡萝卜
3 tablespoons olive oil
3汤匙橄榄油
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, plus 3 extra tablespoons for roasting the carrots
8汤匙（1条）不加盐的黄油；另备3汤匙供烤胡萝卜用
2 cardamom pods
2个小豆蔻夹
2 star anise
2个大茴香
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
盐和现磨的黑胡椒
3 tablespoons sherry vinegar
3汤匙雪利酒醋
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1茶匙第戎芥末酱
3 tablespoons chervil leaves or chopped fresh parsley
3汤匙细芹叶或者切碎的鲜欧芹
PREPARATION
制作方法：
1. Heat the oven to 325. Scrub the carrots, and peel them if you like (it really doesn’t matter). Set a roasting pan over two burners on medium heat; put the olive oil in the pan. When the oil is hot, add the carrots and cook, turning as they brown, until lightly caramelized all over, 10 to 15 minutes.
1. 把烤箱加热至325华氏度。把胡萝卜洗干净，愿意的话可以去皮（真的无所谓）。把一个烤盘放到两个火眼上，用中火加热，在盘里放入橄榄油。油热后加入胡萝卜烘烤，变黄后翻转，直至通身微微变焦，约需10至15分钟。
2. Add 3 tablespoons butter, spices, salt and pepper. Transfer the roasting pan to the oven, and cook, shaking the pan once or twice, until the carrots are crinkly on the outside and you can pierce them easily with the tip of a sharp knife, 45 to 60 minutes.
2. 加入3汤匙黄油、香料、盐和胡椒。把烤盘移到烤箱中烤，晃动烤盘一至两次，直至胡萝卜表皮起皱，你能用锋利的刀尖轻易刺穿，约需45至60分钟。
3. Meanwhile, put 1 stick butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally until the butter foam subsides and the butter turns nut brown, about 5 minutes. Turn off the heat.
3. 与此同时，把一块黄油放入一个小炖锅中，用中火加热。偶尔搅拌，直至黄油沫消退，黄油变成深棕色，约需5分钟。关火。
4. Put brown butter, vinegar, Dijon, salt and pepper in a blender. Blend until a creamy emulsion forms, about 30 seconds; taste, and adjust the seasoning. Put the carrots on a platter, drizzle the vinaigrette over the top and garnish with the chervil or parsley, and serve.
4. 把黑黄油、醋、第戎芥末酱、盐和胡椒混合到一起，搅拌成奶油状的乳剂，约需30秒。尝味，调味。把胡萝卜放到大浅盘上，在上面撒点油醋酱，用细芹叶或欧芹装饰，上桌。
YIELD
份量：
4 servings.
四人份。
Recipe 2:
食谱二：
Stuffed Butternut Squash
填馅冬南瓜
TOTAL TIME: About 1 1/2 hours
总计用时：约1.5个小时
INGREDIENTS
配料：
2 medium butternut squashes
两个中等大小的冬南瓜
Olive oil
橄榄油
Salt and pepper
盐和胡椒
1/2 cup dried porcini or other mushrooms
1/2杯干牛肝菌或其他蘑菇
1 medium onion, chopped
1个中等大小的洋葱，切碎
1/2 cup red wine
1/2杯红酒
1 cup vegetable stock or water
1杯蔬菜汤或水
10 fresh sage leaves, chopped
10根新鲜的鼠尾草叶，切碎
Zest of 1 lemon
1个柠檬的皮屑
PREPARATION
制作方法：
1. Heat the oven to 400. Peel and trim the squash; separate the necks from the bases. Scoop out the seeds from the bases, and reserve. Roughly dice the necks into pieces no bigger than ½ inch.
1. 把烤箱加热到400华氏度。把南瓜去皮、削净；把瓜颈和瓜身分开。把南瓜籽挖出来，不要扔掉，待用。把瓜颈切成不超过1/2英寸的方块。
2. Rub the hollowed out bases inside and out with olive oil; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Stand them up on a rimmed baking sheet, and roast, flipping once, until they are browned all over and you can easily pierce the flesh with the tip of a sharp knife, about 1 hour.
2. 把挖空的瓜身的内外抹上橄榄油；撒上盐和胡椒。把它们竖放在带边的烤盘上，大约烤1个小时，中间翻一次，直至通身变黄，用锋利的刀尖可以轻松刺穿。
3. Meanwhile, soak the porcinis in 1 cup hot water until soft; remove, and chop them, reserving the liquid. Put 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. When the oil is hot, add the onion and cook, stirring occasionally until it begins to soften — about 5 minutes. Add the chopped squash and porcinis, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally until the squash is nicely browned, 8 to 12 minutes.
3. 同时，把牛肝菌放到一杯热水中，直至变软；捞出来切碎，液体待用。在大平底煎锅中放入3汤匙橄榄油，用中到大火加热。油热后，加入洋葱，偶尔翻炒，直至变软，约需5分钟。加入切碎的南瓜和牛肝菌，撒上盐和胡椒。偶尔翻炒，直至南瓜均匀变黄，约需8至12分钟。
4. Add the red wine, stirring to scrape up any browned bits from the bottom, and let it bubble away until it almost disappears. Add the porcini soaking liquid (leave any sediment behind) and the stock. Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Cover partly and cook, adding more liquid if the pan gets too dry, until the squash is very tender, 10 to 15 minutes; taste, and adjust seasoning.
4. 加入红酒，搅拌，刮掉锅底焦黄的小块，让它沸腾，直至红酒煮干。加入浸泡牛肝菌的液体（不要把渣倒进去）和蔬菜汤。沸腾后关至小火。半盖盖子煮，如果太干了就再加点液体，直至南瓜非常柔软，约需10至15分钟；尝尝味道，适当调味。
5. Put 1 tablespoon olive oil in a separate small skillet. When the oil is hot, add the squash seeds and cook, stirring occasionally until golden brown and crisp, 4 to 6 minutes. Turn off the heat, add the chopped sage, lemon zest and a sprinkle of salt and pepper, and toss.
5. 在另一个小平底锅中加入1汤匙橄榄油。油热后，加入南瓜籽，偶尔翻炒，直至金黄松脆，约需4至6分钟。关火，加入切碎的鼠尾草和柠檬皮屑，撒点盐，搅拌。
6. When the squash bases are done, spoon the chopped squash mixture into the cavities (save the leftover stuffing, or serve it on the side). Sprinkle the squash seeds over the top, and serve.
6. 瓜身烤好之后，把切碎的南瓜混合物舀入瓜腔中（保存没用完的填馅，或者当做配菜上桌）。把南瓜籽撒在上面，上桌。
YIELD
份量：
4 servings.
四人份。