• What happened?
• 发生了什么？
Two explosions, at least one caused by a suicide bomber, in the departure hall at Brussels Airport killed some 10 people just before 8 a.m. local time on Tuesday, or 3 a.m. Eastern time.
当地时间周二上午接近8点，布鲁塞尔机场候机大厅发生两起爆炸，造成大约10人死亡。至少其中一起是自杀式炸弹袭击。
About an hour later, an explosion at the Maelbeek subway station in central Brussels, not far from the European Union’s core institutions, killed about 20 people.
大约一小时后，布鲁塞尔市中心距离欧盟核心机构不远的马尔比克(Maelbeek)地铁站发生爆炸，造成约20人死亡。
More than 230 others were wounded.
另有230多人受伤。
• Was the Islamic State behind it?
• 幕后主使是伊斯兰国吗？
Eight hours after the explosions, a news agency affiliated with the Islamic State issued a bulletin claiming responsibility, calling Belgium “a country participating in the coalition against the Islamic State.”
爆炸事件发生八小时后，一家隶属于伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的新闻机构发布了一份公告，声称对事件负责，并称比利时是“对抗伊斯兰国的联盟成员国”。
Officials noted the timing of the attacks on Tuesday, just days after the arrest of the main surviving suspect in the assaults in and around Paris last year that killed 130 people.
官员们注意到了袭击发生在周二的时间安排。此时距巴黎袭击幸存的主要嫌疑人被捕仅过去了几天。去年夏天，巴黎市内及周边地区发生的袭击造成130人死亡。
“We were fearing terrorist attacks, and that has now happened,” said the prime minister of Belgium, Charles Michel.
“我们以前是担心恐怖袭击，现在它发生了，”比利时总理夏尔·米歇尔(Charles Michel)说。
The suspect arrested on Friday, Salah Abdeslam, is believed to be the sole survivor of the 10 men who were directly involved in the Paris attacks on Nov. 13.
上周五被捕的嫌疑人萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)，据信是直接参与去年11月13日巴黎袭击的10个人中，唯一活下来的。
• Where is the investigation heading?
• 调查进展如何？
The Belgian authorities released a photo of three men seen at the airport who they said were suspects and sought the public’s help in identifying one of them. The two others were “probably” suicide bombers, the police said.
比利时当局公布了三名男子出现在机场的照片，称其是嫌疑人并希望民众协助确定其中一人的身份。警方称，另外两人“可能”是自杀式炸弹袭击者。
In addition, an explosive device, “chemical products” and an Islamic State flag were found in police raids in the Schaebeek district of Brussels.
此外，警方在搜查布鲁塞尔斯哈尔贝克区时发现了一个爆炸装置、一些“化学产品”和一面伊斯兰国旗帜。
• Why Brussels?
• 为什么选择布鲁塞尔？
In addition to being the seat of European Union government and the capital of Belgium, Brussels has become a focus of counterterrorism investigations, notably since the Paris attacks.
除了是欧盟总部所在地和比利时首都外，布鲁塞尔已经成了反恐调查的焦点，尤其是巴黎袭击过后。
Officials have also been concentrating on a particular Brussels neighborhood in an investigation of an Islamic State recruitment network.
在调查伊斯兰国的人员招募网络时，官方的注意力主要集中在布鲁塞尔的一个社区。
Brussels has a high proportion of citizens who travel to Iraq, insular Muslim communities believed to have helped shield jihadists, and security services that have had problems with their counterterrorism operations.
布鲁塞尔曾前往伊拉克的民众比例颇高。与外部隔绝的穆斯林社区据信为掩护圣战分子提供了帮助。此外，布鲁塞尔安全机构的反恐行动存在问题。
• What is Brussels like now?
• 布鲁塞尔现在形势如何？
The city, with a population of about one million, has been largely shut down. The Belgian prime minister asked residents to “avoid all movement” as the authorities braced for the possibility of additional violence.
人口约100万的布鲁塞尔已基本关闭。比利时总理表示，当局正准备应对可能会再次出现的暴力活动，要求民众“避免一切活动”。
Flights to and from Brussels Airport, the city’s main international hub, are suspended through Wednesday.
到周三之前，该市主要国际航空枢纽布鲁塞尔机场的全部出发和到达航班都已取消。
All subway lines on the Brussels network were closed, but some services resumed Tuesday afternoon, local news agencies reported.
布鲁塞尔地铁全部关停，但当地新闻机构报道，部分服务周二下午恢复。
The Eurostar trains that connect Brussels to London and the Thalys trains that link the city to other European capitals were shut down. Eurostar said it expected to return to full service on Wednesday.
连接布鲁塞尔和伦敦的“欧洲之星”(Eurostar)列车，以及连接布鲁塞尔与其他欧洲国家首都的“大力士”(Thalys)高速列车停止运行。“欧洲之星”称预计会在周三全面恢复服务。
The European Union complex is locked down. Only employees with badges can approach the building.
欧盟总部大楼全面封锁。只有持徽章的员工才能接近该区域。
Belgium called for three days of national mourning.
比利时宣布举国哀悼三天。
• The reaction elsewhere?
• 其他地方有何反应？
London, New York and Paris are among the major cities bolstering security around their transit hubs and elsewhere.
伦敦、纽约、巴黎等主要城市加强了交通枢纽周边及其他方的安保措施。
President Obama, in Havana, offered American assistance to Belgium and said the United States would do “whatever is necessary” to bring the attackers to justice.
在哈瓦那访问的奥巴马总统表示，美国愿为比利时提供援助，称美国会“采取一切必要的行动”，将袭击者绳之以法。
Condolences are coming in from around the world. The Eiffel Tower in Paris, the World Trade Center in New York and other monuments were to be lit with the colors of Belgium’s flag.
全世界都对比利时致以慰问，巴黎的埃菲尔铁塔、纽约的世界贸易中心和其他一些建筑都亮起了比利时国旗的颜色。
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain called an emergency meeting of his ministers. The German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said the attacks “aim at the heart of Europe.”
英国总统戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)召开内阁紧急会议。德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)称袭击“的目标是欧洲的心脏”。
“We are at war,” the French prime minister, Manuel Valls, said.
“我们正处于战争之中，”法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)说。