Conventional wisdom holds that mass moviegoing is the pastime of another era. The cultural heat emanates from television now. Hollywood churns out only banal sequels and forgettable action films. Netflix is the new multiplex.
大众看电影是另一个时代的消遣，这是当下的世俗认知。现在的文化热潮已经转移到了电视。好莱坞只能制造平庸的影片续集和反响不大的动作片。Netflix是新时代的多映厅影院。
Well, the movies just struck back.
不过，电影开始反击了。
In an astounding display of cultural and commercial domination on a global scale — one with little precedent in the 100-year history of Hollywood — the Walt Disney Company’s “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” earned roughly $517 million in ticket sales worldwide, smashing multiple box office records, even after accounting for inflation.
华特·迪士尼公司(The Walt Disney Company)的《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Star Wars: The Force Awakens)在全世界获得了大约5.17亿美元的票房，即便是在考虑了通货膨胀的因素以后，也打破了多项票房纪录。这惊人地展现了该片在全球范围内的文化和商业主导地位，在好莱坞100年的历史中鲜有先例。
It was the largest opening weekend in North America, with $238 million in ticket sales. To put that figure into perspective, consider that “Avatar,” which analysts consider to be the highest-grossing film in history, with $3.1 billion in global ticket sales, took in $85 million over its first three days in domestic release; the previous record-holder for a December opening was “The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,” with $87.5 million.
该片上映周末的票房为2.38亿美元，是北美第一。为正确理解这个数字，我们以《阿凡达》(Avatar)为参照。该片的全球票房是31亿美元，被分析人士视为史上票房最高的影片。但在国内上映前三天里，该片的票房也仅为8500万美元。之前，12月上映影片的纪录保持者是《霍比特人：意外之旅》(The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey)，成绩为8750万美元。
For Hollywood, “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” which cost roughly $350 million to make and market, represents the way movie executives — after years of watching television steal its thunder and suffering the decline of the DVD business — plan to battle back: Death Star-size movies that can capture the public’s imagination in ways reminiscent of the earliest years of blockbusterdom, before the hyperfragmentation of pop culture.
对好莱坞而言，多年来它的风头被电视抢走，而DVD业务也在下滑，制作和宣传成本约为3.5亿美元的《星球大战：原力觉醒》，代表了影业高管计划回击的方式：用如死星般宏伟的电影捕捉公众的想象，让人回想起当初那个大片频出的时期，也就是流行文化尚未高度细分的年代。
Consumers are just beginning to see this nostalgia-driven strategy — “Jurassic World,” which took in $208 million over its first three days in June, in some ways was the start — but studios have been engaging in a behind-the-scenes race for some time.
这项以怀旧为动力的战略，消费者看到的才只是一个开头。6月上映并在前三天拿下2.08亿美元票房的《侏罗纪世界》(Jurassic World)，在某些方面来说是这项战略的开始，但电影公司的幕后竞争已经有些时日了。
Disney has four more “Star Wars” movies on the way, along with “Frozen 2,” a two-part “Avengers: Infinity War” and a reboot of the Indiana Jones series. Fox has three “Avatar” films and “X-Men: Apocalypse.” Universal has another “Jurassic World” and is putting all of its classic monsters (Dracula, the Mummy, Frankenstein) into one megamovie. Warner Bros., deciding that Batman and Superman were too weak on their own, will roll out “Batman vs. Superman” in March and it has a Godzilla vs. King Kong movie, too.
除另外四部正在准备中的《星球大战》系列影片外，迪士尼还计划推出《冰雪奇缘2》(Frozen 2)和分上下部的《复仇者联盟3：无限战争》(Avengers: Infinity War)，并打算重启“印尼安纳·琼斯”(Indiana Jones)系列影片。福克斯(Fox)准备了《阿凡达》三部曲和《X战警：天启》(X-Men: Apocalypse)。环球影业即将推出最新一部《侏罗纪世界》，并且正在把所有经典怪物角色（德古拉、木乃伊和弗兰肯斯坦）放到一部大片中。华纳兄弟(Warner Bros.)则认为，蝙蝠侠和超人各自为战的力量是不够的。该公司将于3月推出《蝙蝠侠大战超人》(Batman v Superman)。《哥斯拉大战金刚》(Godzill vs. King Kong)也在准备中。
Hollywood has repeatedly missed the mark with mindless remakes and sequels, but “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” which cost an estimated $350 million to make and market, also represents an effort to improve the quality of mass-audience films. Lucasfilm, the Disney unit that controls the “Star Wars” franchise, hired an experienced director, J. J. Abrams, who veered sharply back toward old-fashioned filmmaking, relying less on computer-generated imagery and more on constructed sets.
好莱坞常常推出一些盲目的翻拍作品和续集，让人感到失望，但《星球大战：原力觉醒》代表了提高大众电影质量的努力。它的制作和营销成本估计在3.5亿美元左右。迪士尼旗下的卢卡斯电影公司是“星战”版权的拥有者，它聘请经验丰富的J·J·艾布拉姆斯(J. J. Abrams)执导该片。艾布拉姆斯大步回归到老式的电影制作方式上，减少了对计算机生成图像的依赖，较多地使用了构造场景。
Reviews for “The Force Awakens” were 95 percent positive, according to the Rotten Tomatoes website, which aggregates critical response. “The Force Awakens,” the seventh “Star Wars” movie, focuses on a young woman, Rey, as she becomes entwined with efforts — led by General Leia, no longer a princess — to locate a vanished Luke Skywalker and generally save the galaxy from evil combatants called the First Order.
在影评网站烂番茄(Rotten Tomatoes)上，《原力觉醒》的好评率为95%。它是星战系列的第七集，主要讲述一个名为雷伊(Rey)的年轻女子如何参与到莱娅(Leia)将军——不再是莱娅公主——领导的行动中，一起寻找失踪的天行者卢克，并从邪恶反派阵营第一教团(First Order)手中拯救了银河系的故事。
“The studios finally seem to be remembering, after years of over-reliance on visual effects, that moviegoers like a story,” Jeanine Basinger, a film studies professor at Wesleyan University and the author of books including “The Star Machine,” said on Sunday. “It can be a story we are familiar with. It can be a serialized story. But give us, please, we’re begging you, a story of some kind.”
“经过多年对视觉效果的过度依赖，电影公司似乎终于想起，观众们想看一个故事，”卫斯理大学的电影研究教授、《星机》(The Star Machine)等书的作者珍妮·贝辛格(Jeanine Basinger)周日说。“它可以是一个大家都很熟悉的故事。也可以是一个系列故事。但是请给我们看一个故事，一个某种形式的故事，拜托了。”
“The Force Awakens” arrives at a time when Hollywood has finally started to better understand how to use social media to turn consumer interest into a frenzy. The film also benefited from improved technology in theatrical distribution; the rise of digital projection and advance online presales allowed theater owners to quickly add extra screenings to meet opening-weekend demand.
到《原力觉醒》登场的这个时候，好莱坞也终于开始更好地理解如何利用社交媒体把消费者的兴趣转化为一种狂热。该片也受益于影院发行技术的改进：由于数字投影技术和网上预售做法的兴起，影院管理者可以快速增加额外的场次，以满足观众观看周末首映的需要。
“Theaters in some cases took what we originally planned and expanded it in real time to three or four times the capacity,” said Dave Hollis, Disney’s executive vice president for distribution.
“有的影院接受了我们原来的排期计划，并根据情况即时扩大了两三倍，”迪士尼负责发行的执行副总裁戴夫·霍利斯(Dave Hollis)说。
The box office and critical results represent a personal triumph for Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney, who engineeredthe $4 billion purchase of Lucasfilm in 2012, faced down skeptics on Wall Street who believed the price was too high and essentially ghost-produced the film. (He watched dailies, oversaw elements of the marketing and flew to Harrison Ford’s side when the actor injured himself on the set.)
票房和好评代表着迪士尼首席执行官罗伯特·艾格(Robert A. Iger)个人的胜利。2012年，艾格不顾华尔街一些人的反对，策划了出资40亿美元收购卢卡斯电影公司的行动。那些持怀疑态度的人认为收购价格过高。艾格还是这部影片实际上的代理制片人。（他查看每天的样片，监督宣传细节。哈里森·福特在片场受伤时，他还飞去慰问。）
Mr. Iger declined a request for an interview on Sunday.
艾格周日拒绝了采访请求。
Executives at rival studios spent the weekend marveling at the way Disney managed the film’s release, in particular praising the entertainment company’s use of its vast empire — theme parks, television networks, an online video studio, consumer products, video games, cruise ships — to promote the movie. “Not one misstep,” the marketing chief at a rival studio said begrudgingly, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of a reluctance to publicly praise a competitor.
整个周末，作为其竞争对手的电影公司的高管们对迪士尼发行影片的方式惊叹不已。他们尤其称赞这个娱乐公司用自己旗下的庞大帝国——主题公园、电视网络、一家在线视频工作室、消费品、电子游戏和邮轮——来宣传电影的做法。“一个错误都没有，”一家竞争对手的营销负责人不情愿地说。因为不愿公开赞扬竞争对手，此人要求匿名。
Disney also pulled off one of the hardest tricks in event film marketing, which was timing the surge of advance hoopla to crest just as “The Force Awakens” arrived in theaters.
迪士尼还实现了大片营销最难的一点——让提前预热的高潮，和《原力觉醒》在影院上线的时间重合。
The studio may also have fixed a gender imbalance in “Star Wars,” which has traditionally been much more of a male property. “The characters created for this film, in particular the female character at the center, Rey, made this franchise feel modern and much more appealing to women,” said Greg Foster, the chief executive of Imax Entertainment.
迪士尼可能还解决了《星球大战》中的性别比例失衡问题。该片传统上更多的是一部男性的影片。“为这部电影创造的角色，特别是处于核心地位的女性角色雷伊(Rey)，让影片感觉比较现代，对女性的吸引力也大大增加，”IMAX娱乐(Imax Entertainment)首席执行官格雷格·福斯特(Greg Foster)说。
On Sunday, Disney said that 47 percent of the gross receipts for “The Force Awakens” came from 3-D screenings, tickets that sell for a $3 to $5 premium. About 58 percent of the audience was male. About 63 percent of the audience was 26 or older.
周日，迪士尼表示《原力觉醒》47%的收入来自3D放映。3D票价要高出3到5美元。男性观众约占58%。大约63%的观众不小于26岁。
The movie managed the staggering ticket sales even in the face of worries about terrorism (theaters were evacuated in New Jersey and California over the weekend in what turned out to be false alarms).
即便是在民众担心恐怖主义之际（周末，新泽西州和加利福尼亚州电影院的观众被疏散，但后来证明是虚惊一场），该片仍然取得了令人震惊的票房。
But the otherworldly success of “The Force Awakens” may not be enough for Disney to allay investor concerns about a slowing ESPN, the cable sports network that for years has delivered about 45 percent of Disney’s annual operating profits. Disney’s stock price declined 4 percent on Friday — even as reports of record-breaking box office returns poured in — after a downgrade to “sell” by a widely followed analyst, citing concerns about ESPN’s ability to sustain itself as some consumers forgo cable subscriptions. Disney is also facing worries about theme park security.
但对迪士尼来说，《原力觉醒》难以置信的成功可能还不足以缓解投资者对有限体育频道ESPN业务放缓的担忧。在迪士尼的年营业利润中，ESPN多年占据大约45%的份额。周五当天，尽管有关票房收入创纪录的报道大量涌现，迪士尼的股价仍下跌4%。在那之前，一名广受关注的分析师将该公司的股票评级下调至“卖出”。这名分析师给出的理由是，在一些消费者弃用付费有线电视服务之际，ESPN维持下去的能力堪忧。迪士尼也面临着人们对主题公园的安全的担忧。
But dealing with those worries would have to wait for another day. For Disney, it was celebration time on Sunday.
但这些担忧要改天再去面对。对迪士尼来说，周日是庆祝的时候。
“We’re setting records in real time,” a jubilant-sounding Mr. Hollis said. Asked if Disney’s distribution and publicity teams were ready to collapse after the hard push, Mr. Hollis noted that the film had not yet opened in China, where release is set for Jan. 9.
“我们正在即时刷新纪录，”语气里充满兴奋的霍利斯说。被问及迪士尼的发行和宣传团队在经过这场庞大的营销活动后是否会累垮时，霍利斯指出，影片还未在中国上映。该片在中国的上映时间定在1月9日。
“Collapsing is what February is for,” he said.
“要垮也得到2月垮，”他说。