I was watching Jane Fonda in the new Netflix show “Grace and Frankie,” in which she plays a woman who has just been dumped by her husband, and I was amazed to see Jane, who is 77, with the universally dreaded Inner Upper Arm Wiggle Waggle.
我在看Netflix的新剧《同妻俱乐部》(Grace and Frankie)，简·方达(Jane Fonda)在剧中饰演一个刚被丈夫抛弃的女人。我惊讶地看到77岁的简居然也有许多人都有的可怕的上臂内侧赘肉。
You know what that is, even if you’re not old enough to have it. The flesh of the inner upper arm hangs slack from the bone, as if it’s given up hope. If an inner upper arm could talk, it would say: “Oh, why bother? No one is ever going to give me work/take me to bed/ask my opinion of PBS’s ‘Wolf Hall’ versus Broadway’s.”
你知道那是什么样子，即使你还没老到有那样的赘肉。上臂内侧的肉松垮垮地从骨头上垂下来，它好像已经绝望了。如果上臂内侧能说话，它会说：“哦，何必在意呢？反正也没人会给我工作、跟我上床或者问我PBS台和百老汇的《狼厅》(Wolf Hall)哪个更好。”
Fitness trainers will tell you that arm lifts with light weights can prevent wiggle waggle. But if that were true, would Jane Fonda have it?
健身教练会对你说，举轻哑铃能预防上臂抖动的赘肉。但是如果那是真的，简·方达怎么会有赘肉呢？
This is hard-body Jane, the woman who, back in the ’80s, produced the best-selling workout videos. When she was 72, she made two more, though they included things like exercises for arthritic hands (and wore a leotard that covered her arms).
我说的可是身体强健的简啊。20世纪80年代，她的健身视频是最畅销的。72岁时，她又出了两部视频，虽然其中包括缓解手部关节炎的练（而且她穿着遮住手臂的紧身连衣裤）。
Five years later, Jane not only bares her upper arms, she pokes the flesh so that it shakes like Jell-O. This is a move women do only to torture themselves in department store dressing rooms when trying on sleeveless dresses, or alone in front of their bedroom mirrors. It’s a kind of negative self-affirmation: Who could ever love me with this? 
五年后，简不仅裸露自己的上臂，还戳了戳那块赘肉，让它像果冻一样晃动。女人们在商场试衣间试穿无袖连衣裙时或者独自在卧室镜子前时才会做这个折磨人的动作。它像是一种自我否定：我这个样子，谁会爱我呢？
Jane was doing it on TV. I wanted to leap off the couch and scream, “Give that woman an Emmy now!”
而简是在电视上做了这个动作。我想从沙发上跳起来尖叫：“现在就给那个女人发个艾美奖吧！”
Excuse me, I have an email question from a reader: Couldn’t Jane’s slack arm flesh, which in its most extreme form has been called “bat wings” or “chicken wings,” been a prosthesis? 
对不起，有读者写信表示质疑：简松弛的臂部赘肉（最松弛的那种被称为“蝙蝠翼”或“鸡翅”）难道不可能是假体吗？
Theoretically, yes. But the jiggling flesh of the upper inner arm has historically been considered so horrifying that the special-effects people decided years ago never to make it. Reels of intestines spilling out of the bodies of the walking dead? Love it! Slimy newborn alien leaping out of an astronaut’s chest? Brilliant! That hanging flesh you see on older men and women? That’s repulsive.
理论上讲，这是有可能的。但是，上臂内侧抖动的赘肉一向被认为非常可怕，特效人员早就已经决定绝不制作这种假体。从行尸走肉身上溅出一圈圈肠子？大爱！刚出生的黏糊糊的外星人从宇航员胸腔里跳出来？太棒了！老男人和老女人下垂的赘肉？呃，好恶心。
Where was I?
我说到哪儿了？
Oh, yeah: this frankly-embracing-our-aging-bodies thing that I’ve been seeing on TV. You can’t actually call it a tender embrace; it’s more like the pro wrestler Bad News Barrett slamming you with his bull hammer elbow.哦，对：我在说在电视上看到“坦然拥抱你衰老的身体”这件事。实际上，这不能称之为“温柔的拥抱”，更像职业摔跤手“坏消息巴雷特”(Bad News Barrett)著名的战锤肘击。
But at least this stuff is being acknowledged. Like in that recent “Inside Amy Schumer” sketch in which Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Tina Fey and Patricia Arquette are celebrating Julia’s last day as cinematic sex object.
但是至少这件事正在被承认。例如，在《艾米·舒默的内心世界》(Inside Amy Schumer)最近的一个片段里，朱丽叶·路易斯-德赖弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)、蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)和帕特丽夏·阿凯特(Patricia Arquette)在纪念朱丽叶作为银屏性感尤物最后的日子。
The skit plays off Hollywood’s obsession with youth. It ends with Tina saying she has to go home to wax her beard. I was stunned.
那个片段充分展现了好莱坞对年轻的痴迷。最后，蒂娜说她得回家给胡子脱蜡。这让我感到震惊。
I am 67, although most days I can easily pass for 66 and 10 months, and about a year ago, I spotted a single coarse hair on my chin. It appeared overnight, as if one of those cinematic prosthetic makers had sneaked into my room and glued it on. A few weeks later, I noticed soft peach fuzz all over my chin.
我67岁了，不过大部分日子里，我能轻松地谎称自己66岁10个月。大约一年前，我在下巴上发现一根粗毛。它像是一夜之间长出来的，就像是哪个电影假体制作者偷偷溜进我房间给粘上去的。几周之后，我发现下巴上满是柔软的绒毛。
I come out of the spill-it-all Woodstock generation, but this was too ghastly to confide to anyone. When I spotted a manicure and waxing salon at an out-of-the-way upstate mall, I had what I thought was an original idea: getting my chin waxed.
我是什么都敢说的伍德斯托克(Woodstock)一代，但是这太可怕了，我不敢跟任何人讲。我在市郊一个偏僻的商场发现一个美甲脱蜡沙龙，于是产生了一个自以为首创的想法：给我的下巴脱蜡。
I honestly thought I was the first person to come up with this. When I took the cosmetologist aside and asked how much such a procedure might cost, she pointed to the price list on the wall: “Chin wax, $8.” I was amazed: So I am not alone on Hair Chin Island?
我真的以为我是第一个有这种想法的人。我把美容师拉到一边，询问这种脱蜡大概要花多少钱，她指着墙上的价目表说：“下巴脱蜡，8美元。”我惊呆了：就是说我不是唯一一个下巴长毛的女人？
True, the hair chin stuff and Inner Upper Arm Wiggle Waggle are being played for laughs on-screen, but I can remember when “yogurt” was a laugh word on TV. There may soon be a day when sagging arm flesh is considered hot. Maybe Helen Mirren has something to contribute here. She wore a sleeve past her elbow at the Met Gala, which is promising.
的确，电视中下巴上的毛和上臂内侧的赘肉都是用来惹人发笑的，但我还记得“酸奶”在电视上曾是个笑料。也许不久之后，臂部下垂的赘肉会被认为是性感的。海伦·米伦(Helen Mirren)也许对此会有所贡献。在大都会艺术博物馆慈善晚宴(Met Gala)上，她穿着一件袖子长过肘部的礼服，看起来挺美的。
Oh, sorry, now I’ve got a question from my friend Sybil: Why don’t they have Spanx for arms?
哦，对不起，现在我的朋友西比尔(Sybil)提出一个问题：为什么他们没给胳膊做个类似Spanx塑身裤那样的塑身衣呢？
Surprise — it turns out they do. There’s a product called Sleevey Magic, a tight long-sleeve undershirt, available in white or black, that appears from the video to work like sausage casing. I’ve also seen this sort of packaging used on precooked polenta, if that’s an image you prefer.
你肯定没想到，还真有这种塑身衣，名叫Sleevey Magic。它是一件有着紧紧的长袖子的内衣，有黑白两种颜色，从视频上看，像是给香肠套上肠衣。有的玉米糊熟食包装差不多也是这个样子——如果你更喜欢这种画面的话。
You have Sleevey Magic on top and Spanx on the bottom, and when some buff widower takes you in his arms at his niece’s wedding, he thinks he’s with a retired Olympian. Then he gets you naked in his hotel bed, and you spread out like pancake batter.
你上半身穿着Sleevey Magic塑身衣，下半身穿着Spanx塑身裤。当一位健康的鳏夫在他侄女的婚礼上把你揽入怀中时，他会以为自己和一个退休奥运会选手在一起。然后，在他酒店的床上把你脱光后，他会发现你像煎饼糊一样摊开了。
But here is the secret: Once they have you in the sack, men do not care. Especially the old guys, who are pretty jiggly themselves. They cannot believe their good luck. In their 11th hour, the universe has served up ice cream.
不过秘密在于：一旦上了床，男人就不在乎那么多了。特别是老男人，他们自己的肉也很松弛。他们简直不敢相信自己的好运气：老了老了，上天还给他准备了这样的美味。
It’s women who make themselves nuts worrying about these things. The old guys are thinking, “Oh, yeah, jiggle it for me, baby!”
只有女人们大惊小怪地担心这些事情。老男人们想的是：“哦，耶，给我抖一下，宝贝！”
And now that we have that settled, it is time for me to hold my hand high, braving my own less-than-solid under armitage, and wave goodbye. I am ending “Misinformed” as a regular column, though I hope to pop back now and then.
既然这个问题解决了，我该把手高高举起，勇敢地面对自己不太结实的上臂，挥手告别。我不再定期写“我被误导”(I Was Misinformed)专栏了，不过我希望偶尔还能发几篇。
It is almost summer, I have a sports car that is old but sweet, and a full tank. The metaphoric road beckons. See you out there.
夏天快到了，我有一辆有点旧但挺可爱的跑车，刚加了满满一箱油。想像中的远方道路正在召唤我。我们在那儿见吧。