What does it take to be a good parent? We know some of the tricks for teaching kids to become high achievers. For example, research suggests that when parents praise effort rather than ability, children develop a stronger work ethic and become more motivated.
怎样才能成为好父母？我们知道一些教育孩子取得很大成就的窍门。例如，有研究显示，父母夸奖孩子的努力，而不是能力，孩子就会产生更强的努力精神，变得更有上进心。
Yet although some parents live vicariously through their children’s accomplishments, success is not the No. 1 priority for most parents. We’re much more concerned about our children becoming kind, compassionate and helpful. Surveys reveal that in the United States, parents from European, Asian, Hispanic and African ethnic groups all place far greater importance on caring than achievement. These patterns hold around the world: When people in 50 countries were asked to report their guiding principles in life, the value that mattered most was not achievement, but caring.
尽管一些父母十分重视孩子的成就，但成功并不是多数家长的首要目标。远比这个让我们更关心的是，让孩子变得友善、有同情心、乐于助人。调查显示，在美国的欧裔、亚裔、西语裔、非裔族群的家长，都认为关爱他人比取得成就重要得多。这种情况在全世界都成立，研究人员向50个国家的人询问人生的指导原则，发现他们最在乎的价值并不是成就，而是关爱。
Despite the significance that it holds in our lives, teaching children to care about others is no simple task. In an Israeli study of nearly 600 families, parents who valued kindness and compassion frequently failed to raise children who shared those values.
尽管这一点在我们的生活中十分重要，但是教育孩子去关爱他人可并不简单。以色列开展的一项研究涵盖了600个家庭，研究发现重视友善、同情的父母，常常并不能教育出也认同这些价值观的孩子。
Are some children simply good-natured — or not? For the past decade, I’ve been studying the surprising success of people who frequently help others without any strings attached. As the father of two daughters and a son, I’ve become increasingly curious about how these generous tendencies develop.
是不是有些孩子本性就好，而另一些则不好？过去十年，我一直在研究那些经常无条件帮助他人的人为什么能做到这一点。作为有两个女儿和一个儿子的父亲，我越来越好奇这些慷慨的倾向是如何发展起来的。
Genetic twin studies suggest that anywhere from a quarter to more than half of our propensity to be giving and caring is inherited. That leaves a lot of room for nurture, and the evidence on how parents raise kind and compassionate children flies in the face of what many of even the most well-intentioned parents do in praising good behavior, responding to bad behavior, and communicating their values.
对双胞胎开展的遗传学研究显示，我们表现出的慷慨、关爱他人的倾向中，有四分之一到超过一半是由遗传决定的。这个比例为后天的培养留下了相当大的空间。一些家长养育出了友好、有同情心的孩子，而从他们的培养方式中取得的证据，却与很多极为善意的父母的做法截然相反，虽然后者会夸奖好的行为，对坏的行为做出反应，而且也会传达自己的价值观。
By age 2, children experience some moral emotions — feelings triggered by right and wrong. To reinforce caring as the right behavior, research indicates, praise is more effective than rewards. Rewards run the risk of leading children to be kind only when a carrot is offered, whereas praise communicates that sharing is intrinsically worthwhile for its own sake. But what kind of praise should we give when our children show early signs of generosity?
在两岁时，孩子们就体验到了某些道德情绪，也就是由对与错激发的情感。研究显示，要将关爱他人作为一种正确的行为进行强化，赞扬比奖励更为有效。奖励可能会诱导孩子，只在能拿到好处的时候对人友善，而赞扬却能传达出，与别人分享的行为本质上就是有价值的。不过，如果孩子表现出了慷慨的早期迹象，我们应该给予怎样的赞扬呢？
Many parents believe it’s important to compliment the behavior, not the child — that way, the child learns to repeat the behavior. Indeed, I know one couple who are careful to say, “That was such a helpful thing to do,” instead of, “You’re a helpful person.”
许多父母相信，应当赞扬的是行为，而不是孩子本人。这样一来，孩子们就能学会重复这种行为。的确，我认识的一对夫妇就很小心，会说“你做的这件事太有帮助了”，而不会说“你真是个乐于助人的人”。
But is that the right approach? In a clever experiment, the researchers Joan E. Grusec and Erica Redler set out to investigate what happens when we commend generous behavior versus generous character. After 7- and 8-year-olds won marbles and donated some to poor children, the experimenter remarked, “Gee, you shared quite a bit.”
但这是正确的手段吗？在一项巧妙的试验中，研究人员琼·E·格鲁塞克(Joan E. Grusec)和艾丽卡·雷德勒(Erica Redler)研究了称赞慷慨行为和称赞慷慨品格，分别会产生怎样的影响。一群七八岁的小孩儿赢得了弹子球，把其中一些捐给贫穷的小孩后，研究人员会评价，“哇，你分享了很多。”
The researchers randomly assigned the children to receive different types of praise. For some of the children, they praised the action: “It was good that you gave some of your marbles to those poor children. Yes, that was a nice and helpful thing to do.” For others, they praised the character behind the action: “I guess you’re the kind of person who likes to help others whenever you can. Yes, you are a very nice and helpful person.”
之后研究人员随机地向孩子给予不同类型的表扬。对于其中一些，他们表扬了行动：“你把一些自己的弹子球给了穷孩子，这样做真好。是的，这是一件善良、帮助人的事。”对于另一些，他们则表扬了行为背后的品格：“我觉得你是那种只要能做到，就会帮助别人的人。是的，你是一个很善良、乐于助人的人。”
A couple of weeks later, when faced with more opportunities to give and share, the children were much more generous after their character had been praised than after their actions had been. Praising their character helped them internalize it as part of their identities. The children learned who they were from observing their own actions: I am a helpful person. This dovetails with new research led by the psychologist Christopher J. Bryan, who finds that for moral behaviors, nouns work better than verbs. To get 3- to 6-year-olds to help with a task, rather than inviting them “to help,” it was 22 to 29 percent more effective to encourage them to “be a helper.” Cheating was cut in half when instead of, “Please don’t cheat,” participants were told, “Please don’t be a cheater.” When our actions become a reflection of our character, we lean more heavily toward the moral and generous choices. Over time it can become part of us.
两个星期后，再有给予和分享的机会时，那些品格受到称赞的孩子，要比行为受到称赞的孩子慷慨得多。称赞孩子的品格，能够帮助孩子们把慷慨内化为自身认同的一部分，孩子们通过观察自己的行为了解到自己是一个怎样的人：我是一个乐于助人的人。这一结论与心理学家克里斯托弗·J·布莱恩(Christopher J. Bryan)主持的研究所得出的结论相吻合，布莱恩的研究发现，对于道德行为，名词的效果好过动词。要想让三岁至六岁孩子在一项任务中提供帮助，让他们“当帮手”的效果，比让他们“来帮忙”的效果好22%至29%。而告知参试者“不要成为作弊者”，与叮嘱“不要作弊”相比，能将作弊的情况减少一半。当我们的行为成为个人品格的反映时，我们就会更倾向于做出道德的、慷慨的选择。长此以往，它就会成为我们的一部分。
Praise appears to be particularly influential in the critical periods when children develop a stronger sense of identity. When the researchers Joan E. Grusec and Erica Redler praised the character of 5-year-olds, any benefits that may have emerged didn’t have a lasting impact: They may have been too young to internalize moral character as part of a stable sense of self. And by the time children turned 10, the differences between praising character and praising actions vanished: Both were effective. Tying generosity to character appears to matter most around age 8, when children may be starting to crystallize notions of identity.
在儿童产生更强个人意识的关键时期，赞扬似乎尤其具有影响力。研究人员琼·E·格鲁塞克和艾丽卡·雷德勒赞扬五岁大的儿童的品格时，任何可能的正面影响，都没有产生持续的效果：他们可能还太小，无法将道德品格内化为稳定的自我意识的一部分。而孩子到十岁时，称赞品格和称赞行为的差别就消失了：两者都有效果。将慷慨与品格捆绑在一起，似乎对八岁左右的儿童最为有效，儿童对自身身份的认识可能就是在这时开始成型的。
Praise in response to good behavior may be half the battle, but our responses to bad behavior have consequences, too. When children cause harm, they typically feel one of two moral emotions: shame or guilt. Despite the common belief that these emotions are interchangeable, research led by the psychologist June Price Tangney reveals that they have very different causes and consequences.
对好行为做出赞扬的反应，或许解决了一半的问题，但是对坏行为的反应也会产生重要的后果。孩子们造成破坏时，他们通常会感受到两种道德情感中的一种：羞耻感或负罪感。尽管人们通常认为这两种情感是可以相互替换的同义词，但心理学家茱恩·普莱斯·唐尼(June Price Tangney)牵头开展的研究发现，这两种情感的原因和后果有极大的区别。
Shame is the feeling that I am a bad person, whereas guilt is the feeling that I have done a bad thing. Shame is a negative judgment about the core self, which is devastating: Shame makes children feel small and worthless, and they respond either by lashing out at the target or escaping the situation altogether. In contrast, guilt is a negative judgment about an action, which can be repaired by good behavior. When children feel guilt, they tend to experience remorse and regret, empathize with the person they have harmed, and aim to make it right.
羞耻感是“我是个坏人”的那种感觉，而负罪感则是“我做了错事”的那种感觉。羞耻感是对核心的自我做出的消极判断，这种情感破坏性极大：羞耻感会让孩子感觉自己渺小、毫无价值，他们的反应要么是对目标发起攻击，要么是彻底地逃脱当时的状况。与此相对比，负罪感是对一种行动做出的消极判断，可以通过好的行为弥补。孩子产生负罪感时，他们倾向于感受到懊悔和惋惜，理解他们伤害到的人的感受，并且会打算纠正错误。
In one study spearheaded by the psychologist Karen Caplovitz Barrett, parents rated their toddlers’ tendencies to experience shame and guilt at home. The toddlers received a rag doll, and the leg fell off while they were playing with it alone. The shame-prone toddlers avoided the researcher and did not volunteer that they broke the doll. The guilt-prone toddlers were more likely to fix the doll, approach the experimenter, and explain what happened. The ashamed toddlers were avoiders; the guilty toddlers were amenders.
在心理学家卡伦·卡普洛维茨·巴雷特(Karen Caplovitz Barrett)牵头主导的一项研究中，家长们对子女在家时的羞耻感和负罪感体验倾向做了评估。这些孩子得到了一个布娃娃，当他们独自和布娃娃玩耍时，它的一条腿掉了下来。有羞耻感倾向的儿童躲避研究人员，不肯自愿承认是他们弄坏了布娃娃。有负罪感倾向的儿童则更愿意修补娃娃，接近实验者并解释事情的经过。有羞耻感的儿童是逃避者；有负罪感的儿童是修复者。
If we want our children to care about others, we need to teach them to feel guilt rather than shame when they misbehave. In a review of research on emotions and moral development, the psychologist Nancy Eisenberg suggests that shame emerges when parents express anger, withdraw their love, or try to assert their power through threats of punishment: Children may begin to believe that they are bad people. Fearing this effect, some parents fail to exercise discipline at all, which can hinder the development of strong moral standards.
如果我们想让自己的孩子关心别人，在他们行为不当时，我们需要教育他们为此而负疚，而不是因此而羞耻。在某项情感和道德培养研究的评估里，心理学家南希·艾森伯格(Nancy Eisenberg)提出，当家长怒气冲冲地散去他们的爱意、或者试图通过惩罚的威胁维护自己的权威时，孩子可能会开始认为，自己是坏人。由于害怕产生这种后果，有些家长根本不去管束孩子，这可能会妨碍孩子形成强有力的道德标准。
The most effective response to bad behavior is to express disappointment. According to independent reviews by Professor Eisenberg and David R. Shaffer, parents raise caring children by expressing disappointment and explaining why the behavior was wrong, how it affected others, and how they can rectify the situation. This enables children to develop standards for judging their actions, feelings of empathy and responsibility for others, and a sense of moral identity, which are conducive to becoming a helpful person. The beauty of expressing disappointment is that it communicates disapproval of the bad behavior, coupled with high expectations and the potential for improvement: “You’re a good person, even if you did a bad thing, and I know you can do better.”
对不良行为最有效的回应是表达自己的失望之情。根据艾森伯格教授和戴维·R·谢弗(David R. Shaffer)的独立评估，培养关心他人的孩子的家长，会表达自己的失望之情，向孩子解释为什么他们的行为是错的，这种行为将如何影响他人，以及他们怎样才能扭转局面。这种做法能使孩子形成行为判断标准，培养他们为他人着想的思维和对他人的责任感、以及道德认同感，这种认同感有助于他们成为乐于助人的人。表达失望的美妙之处在于，它向对方传达了你对不良行为的反对，与此相伴的是你对对方的高期望值和改善品行的可能：“你是一个好人，即使你做了一件坏事，我依然明白你能做得更好。”
As powerful as it is to criticize bad behavior and praise good character, raising a generous child involves more than waiting for opportunities to react to the actions of our children. As parents, we want to be proactive in communicating our values to our children. Yet many of us do this the wrong way.
虽然批评不良行为、赞扬良好品格的作用相当强大，但培养一个宽宏大量的孩子要付出巨大的努力，单单坐等机会以回应孩子的行为是远远不够的。身为家长，我们希望积极主动地把自己的价值观传递给孩子。然而，我们当中许多人的做法都是错的。
In a classic experiment, the psychologist J. Philippe Rushton gave 140 elementary- and middle-school-age children tokens for winning a game, which they could keep entirely or donate some to a child in poverty. They first watched a teacher figure play the game either selfishly or generously, and then preach to them the value of taking, giving or neither. The adult’s influence was significant: Actions spoke louder than words. When the adult behaved selfishly, children followed suit. The words didn’t make much difference — children gave fewer tokens after observing the adult’s selfish actions, regardless of whether the adult verbally advocated selfishness or generosity. When the adult acted generously, students gave the same amount whether generosity was preached or not — they donated 85 percent more than the norm in both cases. When the adult preached selfishness, even after the adult acted generously, the students still gave 49 percent more than the norm. Children learn generosity not by listening to what their role models say, but by observing what they do.
在一个经典的试验中，心理学家J·菲利普·拉什顿(J. Philippe Rushton)给140名在游戏中获胜的小学和中学年龄的孩子发放了纪念品，他们可以把所有纪念品都留给自己，或者把部分纪念品捐给一名贫困的孩子。首先，他们观看了一个实验者以教师的身份用要么自私、要么慷慨的方式玩这个游戏，之后再由此人向孩子们宣讲索取和给予的价值观，或是什么也不说。成人的影响力相当重大，结果证实行甚于言。当成人表现自私时，儿童会照章学样。言辞没有造成太大区别——不管成人口头上如何宣扬自私自利或慷慨大方的价值观，孩子们在观察到成人的自私行为后，捐出的纪念品都会较少。当成人慷慨解囊时，不管慷慨的价值观是否得到了宣扬，学生们捐出的纪念品都一样多——即在听了宣扬和没听宣扬的情况下，他们捐出的纪念品都比基准水平高出85%。当成人的举动慷慨时，即使他们随后宣扬了自私的价值观，学生们捐出的纪念品依然比基准水平高出49%。儿童不是通过倾听身边榜样的言辞，而是通过观察他们的行动来培养慷慨品格的。
To test whether these role-modeling effects persisted over time, two months later researchers observed the children playing the game again. Would the modeling or the preaching influence whether the children gave — and would they even remember it from two months earlier?
为了测试这种以身作则的效应是否会经久不衰，两个月之后，研究人员观察了孩子们再次进行同一个游戏的情况。以身作则或言论宣讲会影响孩子们的给予模式吗——甚至，他们对两个月之前的经历还有印象吗？
The most generous children were those who watched the teacher give but not say anything. Two months later, these children were 31 percent more generous than those who observed the same behavior but also heard it preached. The message from this research is loud and clear: If you don’t model generosity, preaching it may not help in the short run, and in the long run, preaching is less effective than giving while saying nothing at all.
最大方的是那些看着老师不言不语地把纪念品给别人的孩子。两个月之后，这些孩子比那些观察到同样的行为，而且还听了宣讲的孩子要慷慨31%。此次调查传达了一个一清二楚的讯息，即如果你不做出身体力行的慷慨之举，那么光宣讲慷慨的意义在短期内可能没什么作用，从长期看，宣讲的成效比不上闭口不言地捐助他人的行为示范。
People often believe that character causes action, but when it comes to producing moral children, we need to remember that action also shapes character. As the psychologist Karl Weick is fond of asking, “How can I know who I am until I see what I do? How can I know what I value until I see where I walk?”
人们往往认为，性格决定行为，然而在讨论培养品行端正的儿童时，我们需要记住，行为也会塑造性格。正如心理学家卡尔·韦克(Karl Weick)喜好这样问，“在我看清自己的行为之前，我怎会知道自己是什么样的人？在我看清自己走向哪里之前，我怎会知道自己珍惜什么？”