WASHINGTON — A debate over whether Edward J. Snowden deserves lenience or the strict treatment the Obama administration has demanded for divulging a vast array of national secrets drew sharply opposing views on Sunday from two prominent senators.
华盛顿——本周日，对于泄露大量国家机密的爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)是应该宽大处理，还是应该像奥巴马政府要求的那样进行严惩，两位知名参议员发表了针锋相对的意见。
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian-minded Republican, said he disagreed with those who have argued for the most severe penalties for Mr. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor.
秉承自由主义态度的肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)表示，他不赞同对前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员斯诺登施以最严厉的惩罚。
“I don’t think Edward Snowden deserves a death penalty or life in prison; I think that’s inappropriate, and I think that’s why he fled, because that’s what he faced,” Mr. Paul said on the ABC News program “This Week.”
“我不认为爱德华·斯诺登应该被判处死刑或终身监禁，我认为这是不恰当的，我想这就是为什么他逃跑的原因：因为他会面临这样的惩罚，”保罗在ABC的新闻节目《本周新闻》(This Week)上说。
“I think, really, in the end,” Mr. Paul added, “history’s going to judge that he revealed great abuses of our government and great abuses of our intelligence community” by exposing the broad sweep of electronic surveillance by the National Security Agency.
斯诺登揭露国安局开展的大规模电子监听活动，从而“让美国政府和情报界的重大问题得以曝光，”保罗说，“我真的觉得，到了最后，历史会做出对他的行为做出裁决。”
Without directly suggesting some sort of bargain to reduce the charges Mr. Snowden faces and perhaps pave the way for his return from exile in Russia, Mr. Paul said, “I think the only way he’s coming home is if someone would offer him a fair trial with a reasonable sentence.”
保罗并没有直接建议进行某种交易，以减少斯诺登面临的指控，为他结束在俄罗斯的流亡生活回到美国铺平道路。“我认为要想让他回家，唯有确保他能给他一场公平的审判和一个合理的判决，”保罗说。
But a leading Democrat, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, took a directly opposing view.
知名民主党人、纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)的看法则截然不同。
“I disagree with Rand Paul that we should plea-bargain with him prior to him coming back,” Mr. Schumer said.
“兰德·保罗说我们应该在斯诺登回来之前与他达成辩诉交易，对此我是不赞同的，”舒默说。
The New York senator appeared after Mr. Paul on the ABC program, where both men were asked about a New York Times editorial about Mr. Snowden that cited “the enormous value of the information he has revealed, and the abuses he has exposed,” and suggested that the United States offer Mr. Snowden a plea bargain or some form of clemency.
舒默在保罗之后出现在ABC的节目中，ABC先后询问了两人对《纽约时报》的一篇社论的看法。这篇社论说，斯诺登“揭示的信息，暴露的问题具有重大价值”，并建议为斯诺登提供辩诉交易或者某种形式的宽大处理。
Calls for leniency, which have also come from groups like the American Civil Liberties Union and from commentators at home and abroad, have been fueled by a federal judge’s ruling that one of the surveillance programs Mr. Snowden exposed was probably unconstitutional.
像美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)这样的团体以及国内外的评论员也纷纷呼吁宽大处理斯诺登，一名联邦法官裁决他所揭露的监听项目可能是违宪的，更助长了这样的呼声。
But Mr. Schumer said that if Mr. Snowden considered himself part of the “grand tradition of civil disobedience in this country” — a tradition he said included the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Daniel Ellsberg, who leaked the Pentagon Papers four decades ago — he should return to stand trial and face the consequences of his actions. Such a trial, the senator said, could be enlightening for the country.
但舒默说，美国有“公民不服从的伟大传统”，代表人物包括牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士和40年前泄露五角大楼文件的丹尼尔·埃尔斯伯格(Daniel Ellsberg)，如果斯诺登认为自己也属于其中之一，那么他就应该回来受审，直面自己行为的后果。舒默说，这样的审判可以给美国带来启迪。
In June, federal prosecutors filed a criminal complaint against Mr. Snowden charging him with theft and two violations of the 1917 Espionage Act.
今年6月，联邦检察官以盗窃和违反1917年《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)两项规定的罪名，对斯诺登提起了刑事诉讼。
Mr. Schumer said crucial questions remained about the import of Mr. Snowden’s revelations, which badly shook relations with some American allies.
舒默说，关键的问题仍然在于斯诺登揭秘行为的重要性，它严重动摇了美国和一些盟国的关系。
He said it was unclear how much the broad metadata gleaned by the National Security Agency had helped the fight against terrorists; how much damage Mr. Snowden had, in fact, done to intelligence efforts; and precisely how the data were used.
他说，国安局广泛收集的元数据对于反恐斗争有多大帮助，斯诺登究竟对情报工作造成了多大的破坏，以及这些数据到底是如何使用的，目前这些情况都还不清楚。
“All of this could come out in a trial; it would be beneficial for the country to have the discussion,” Mr. Schumer said. “So, running away, being helped by Russia and China, is not in the tradition of a true civil disobedience practitioner.”
“所有这一切都可通过一场审判来揭示，这将有助于大家进行讨论，”舒默说，“所以，在俄罗斯和中国的帮助下流亡国外，不是真正的公民不服从举动。”
Mr. Paul suggested that James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, might deserve some prison time for his misleading testimony in March — before the Snowden revelations began to emerge. Asked at an open congressional hearing whether the security agency collected “any type of data at all on millions or hundreds of millions of Americans,” he replied, “No, sir,” adding, “not wittingly.”
保罗认为，国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)也许应该被关进监狱里，因为他去年3月的的证词具有误导性——斯诺登的揭秘行动当时还没有开始。在一个公开的国会听证会上，对于安全机构是否收集了“数百万甚至数亿美国人任何类型的数据”，他的回答是“否”，然后又说“不会有意那么去做”。
Mr. Clapper later told NBC that the question had seemed, at the time, to be unanswerable by a simple yes or no. “So I responded in what I thought was the most truthful, or least untruthful, manner by saying, ‘No.'”
克拉珀后来告诉NBC，在当时，这个问题似乎无法通过一个简单的“是”或“否”来回答。“所以我使用了我觉得是最真实的，或者至少是最接近的答案，那就是‘否’。”