If you are in politics or public life, you probably had some moment of spine-tingling transcendence. Maybe you read the Declaration of Independence or watched the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s mountaintop sermon, or read Nelson Mandela’s 1964 speech from the dock.
如果你从事政治或公众事业，你或许曾经历过一些惊神泣鬼的超验瞬间。也许你在读《独立宣言》(Declaration of Independence)或者看小马丁·路德·金牧师(Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.)的“顶峰”布道，又或者读纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)1964年站在被告席上的演讲。
Suddenly, your imagination was inflamed beyond its normal scope. You were enveloped by this epic sense that public life could be truly heroic. The people who issue these statements brought their lives to a glorious point, pledging their sacred honor, offering to sacrifice their lives for some public mission.
突然，你的想象力被点燃，超越了它惯常的范围。公众事业可以是真正荣耀的——这种史诗般的感觉包围了你。发出这些宣言的人，将他们的人生推向了一个光辉的顶点，他们做出神圣的承诺，愿意为了一些公众使命而牺牲自己的生命。
You got into public life inspired by something like that. But how do you execute that sort of vision? How do you translate the poetry of high aspiration into the prose of effective governance? This is the common problem today. Most people go into public life for the right reasons, but government doesn’t work. The quality of the people is high, but the quality of leadership is low.
你在这类故事的鼓舞之下步入公众事业。但你如何实现这种愿景呢？你又如何将诗意的崇高抱负转化为平实的有效治理呢？这是如今常见的一个问题。多数人步入公众事业是有着正确的动机的，但政府没能正常运转。人的素质很高，但作领导的水平却很低。
I’d suggest three responses.
我认为对此可以有三种应对。
First, apprentice yourself to a master craftsman. Find yourself a modern version of Ted Kennedy cobbling together a Senate majority. Find yourself some silent backstage official, who knows how to slide ideas through the bureaucracy. Glue yourself to that person in order to learn the craft of governance.
首先，拜到一位技巧大师的门下学艺。为你自己找一位现代版的泰德·肯尼迪(Ted Kennedy)。为你自己找一位沉默的善于幕后疏通的官员，此人知道如何让想法通过官僚体系的层层阻隔。为了学习那种治理的技巧，你要亦步亦趋地跟随他。
Schools are good at transmitting what the philosopher Michael Oakeshott called technical knowledge. This is the sort of knowledge that can be expressed in rules and put down in books — like the recipes in a cookbook. But craftsmen possess and transmit practical knowledge. This sort of knowledge, Oakeshott says, exists only in use. It cannot be taught, only imparted by imitation and experience. It’s knowing when to depart from the cookbook; how much, when running a meeting, to let the conversation flow and how much to rein it in.
学校是传播哲学家迈克尔·奥克肖特(Michael Oakeshott)所说的技术知识的好地方。这种知识能够以条条框框的形式呈现出来，录入书中——就好像是烹饪书中的食谱。而技巧大师则会获取并传播实践知识。奥克肖特说，这种知识只存在实践中。它无法教，只能通过模仿和亲身体验而取得。就是说要知道什么时候脱离烹饪书；知道在主持会议时，应从多大程度上任对话自由发展，又从多大程度上加以控制。
Practical knowledge is hard to see, but it is embedded in traditions of behavior. It is embedded in the lives of older legislators and public servants, and it is passed down by imitation to the younger ones. This craft of governing well has been forsaken and disrespected, but you will not be effective in public life unless you find a wise old person who will teach you the tricks of the trade, hour after hour, side by side.
实践知识很难体察，但它是深深印在行为的传统中的。它印在前辈议员和公务员的生活中，通过仿效传授给年轻一代。出色治理的技艺已被摈弃，不再受到尊重。但除非你找到一个智慧的老者，手把手地不断交给你这一行的诀窍，你在公众事业上的表现就无法尽如人意。
Second, take a reality bath. Go off and become a stranger in a strange land. Go off to some alien part of this country or the world. Immerse yourself in the habits and daily patterns of that existence and stay there long enough to get acculturated. Stay there long enough so that you forget the herd mentality of our partisan culture.
第二，洗一个“现实的澡”。离开，在一片陌生的土地上成为一个陌生人。离开，去这个国家或这个世界上一些全然不同的地方。将自己沉浸在那种存在的习惯和日常模式之中，在那里逗留足够的时间，适应那里的文化。逗留时间要长到忘记了我们党派文化的从众心态。
When you return home, you will look at your own place with foreign eyes. You’ll see the contours of your own reality more clearly. When you return to native ground, you’re more likely to possess the sort of perceptiveness that Isaiah Berlin says is the basis of political judgment.
当你回来时，你会以一种外来视角审视你自己的地方。你会更清楚地看到自身现实的整体轮廓。当你回到故土，你更有可能会得到那种被以赛亚·伯林(Isaiah Berlin)称为政治判断之根据的感受力。
This sort of wisdom consists of “a special sensitiveness to the contours of the circumstances in which we happen to be placed; it is a capacity for living without falling foul of some permanent condition or factor which cannot be either altered, or even fully described.” This wisdom is based on a tactile awareness of your country and its people — what they want, how they react. You don’t think this awareness. You feel it. You experience a visceral oneness with culture and circumstance — the smell of the street, tinges of anger and hope and aspiration. The irony is that you are more likely to come into union with your own home culture after you have been away from it. You have to walk away from the partisan tunnel vision to see how things really are.
这种智慧包含了“对我们所处环境整体轮廓有一种特别的敏感；它是一种能力，在不违背一些固有条件或因素的情况下生活，这些条件和因素都是没法改变的，甚至都不能充分描述。”这种智慧是基于你对你的国家和人民——他们想要什么，他们如何反应——的触觉意识。你不会去想这种意识，你通过触摸感觉到它。你感受到文化和环境有一种天然的和谐——街头的味道，些许的愤怒、希望和抱负。具有讽刺意味的是，只有曾经远离，你才更可能与自己本土的文化达成融合。你必须从狭隘的党派视角脱离出来，才能看到事情的真实面貌。
Finally, close off your options. People in public life live in a beckoning world. They have an array of opportunities. They naturally want to keep all their options open. The shrewd strategists tell them to make a series of tepid commitments to see what pans out. Hedge your bets. Play it smart.
最后，关闭你的多种选项。从事公众事业的人生活在一个充满诱惑的世界。他们有许许多多的机会。他们本能地希望保留所有选项的可能性。精明的战略家告诉他们，应该在每种选项上投入一点精力，考察哪个能够实现。让你的各种赌注对冲。精明出招。
But the shrewd strategy leads to impotence. You spread yourself thin. You dissipate your energies and never put full force behind any cause. You make your own trivial career the object of your attention, not the vision that inspired you in the first place.
但精明的战略却导致了无能。你把自己的精力分散开来。你消耗了自己的精力，从不为任何一项事业全力以赴。你让自己琐碎的事业成为你的关注目标，而不是最初鼓舞你的那种愿景。
The public official who does this leaves no mark. Only the masters of renunciation leave an imprint, only those who can say a hundred Nos for the sake of an overwhelming Yes. Only the person who has burned the ships and committed to one issue has the courage to cast aside the advice of the strategists and actually push through change.
这么做的官员不会留下任何印记。只有那些善于放弃的人才会留下印记，只有那些为了大声说一句“是”，而说一百次“不”的人才能留下印记。只有那个烧了船，集中所有注意在一件事上的人才有勇气抛开战略家的建议，而实实在在地推行改革。
We live in a nation of good people and ineffective government. I don’t know if these tactics will improve the quality of the nation’s leadership, but something has to.
我们生活在一个有着高素质人才和低效能政府的国家。我不知道这些应对方法是否能改进这个国家的领导力水平，但总有些方法会管用。