Here is your essential survival guide to the World Cup in Brazil. You need it whether or not you are going there. For the next month nothing much else around the globe matters.
本文是你必备的巴西世界杯生存指南。无论去不去巴西，你都需要它。在接下来的一个月里，世界上其他很多事情都没什么要紧。
First off, nothing works in Brazil. Or rather, everything works but in a different way. The essential word, or concept, is “jeitinho.” There’s a “jeitinho” for your every need, from getting hold of a ticket to the semifinal to getting out of a speeding fine. A “jeitinho” is the means to bend the rules, display ingenuity and conjure solutions from impossible situations.
首先，巴西没有什么东西是正常运转的。更确切地说，所有东西都是在以一种不同的方式运转。一个关键词，或者说关键概念，叫“jeitinho”。从弄到半决赛的门票，到逃脱超速驾驶罚款，你的每一种需要都会有“jeitinho”。其意思是钻规则的空子，妙计百出，为貌似不可能办到的事情找出解决方法。
It is a core part of the nation’s “jogo de cintura,” literally its ability to adjust its belt, more loosely its endless flexibility. The poor North American “gringo,” by contrast, is literal-minded and rules-bound. Loosen up or lose.
这是巴西“jogo de cintura”的一个关键组成部分。从字面上说，“jogo de cintura”是指调整腰带的能力，大意是指其无穷无尽的灵活性。相比之下，可怜的北美“外国佬”真是迂腐不堪，饱受规则的束缚。要么放松，要么成空。
Second, slow down. Everything is late, and even later in Bahia. So is everyone. For a dinner, usually 90 minutes late, and don’t expect anyone before the “telenovela” (TV soap opera) is over. The Rio metro is several years late, ahead of schedule by Brazilian standards. “Atrasado” — delayed — is a state of mind.
其次，要慢下来。所有东西都会晚点，在巴伊亚州甚至会晚上加晚。人人皆是如此。晚餐通常会晚90分钟，不要指望任何人在“telenovela”（电视肥皂剧）结束之前到场。里约地铁就晚了好几年，但以巴西的标准来看，这倒是比计划提前了。“Atrasado”（延迟）是一种心态。
The nation tends to “empurrar com a barriga,” literally push with the (soft) stomach, or put things off through artful procrastination. The only place you find twinkling speed is on the soccer field, where Brazilians have “samba no pé,” or roughly magic in their feet.
这个国家倾向于“empurrar com a barriga”，字面上的意思是用（软软的）腹部去推动，引申意思是巧妙地拖延。在巴西，你能看到快速动作的唯一地方就是足球场，巴西人在足球场上有“samba no pé”，这个词的大致意思是说，他们的脚拥有魔力。
Third, relax. That is essential. “Tudo bem,” everything’s fine, there’s sun, there’s “chopp” (ice-cold draught beer) and miles of “praia” (beach). Brazil is a can-do nation of immigrants on the make. “Bola pra frente!” — keep your head up and keep the spirit (literally “ball forward!”). There is always the “jogo bonito” — the beautiful game.
第三，要放松。这一点至关重要。“Tudo bem”，一切都很好，有阳光，有“chopp”（冰镇生啤），还有长长的“praia”（沙滩）。巴西是一个积极进取、雄心万丈的移民国家。“Bola pra frente!”——抬头挺胸，打起精神（字面意思是“带球前进！”）。这里总是有“jogo bonito”——打得漂亮的比赛。
Which is sacred, this game of soccer, this passion, lived more intensely in Brazil than anywhere else, with Italy a close second. Bill Shankly, the legendary manager of Liverpool football club, once remarked that, “Some people believe football is a matter of life and death, I am very disappointed with that attitude. I can assure you it is much, much more important than that.” Shankly, for Brazilians, was guilty of a gross understatement.
这种神圣的足球运动，神圣的激情，在巴西深入人心，比其他任何地方都要强烈，紧随巴西之后的则是意大利。利物浦足球俱乐部的传奇经理比尔·香克利(Bill Shankly)曾说，“有些人以为足球是生死攸关的大事，我对这种态度深感失望。我可以向你保证，足球比那远远更加重要。”在巴西人看来，香克利的说法也太过轻描淡写了一些。
For the next month the most important sound across a vast nation will be: “Gooooooool do ... BRASIL!” No translation required. The second most important will be “Golaço!” (“Awesome goal”). If Neymar — latest in a long line of prodigious Brazilian talents with “samba no pé” — shines, then more than 200 million Brazilians will be happy.
接下来的一个月，在这个幅员辽阔的国家，最重要的声音就是：“Gooooooool do……BRASIL!”这无需翻译。第二重要的声音将是“Golaço！”（“漂亮进球”）。如果内马尔(Neymar)——拥有众多“samba no pé”天才的巴西足球中最新涌现的一位球星——能够焕发光彩，那么2亿多巴西人将会开心雀跃。
But if the title holders, Spain, with their “tiki-taka” high-speed precision passing, or the always menacing German “Mannschaft,” or the hated Argentines with the genius Messi up front, should steal the show, Brazilian mourning will know no end. President Dilma Rousseff’s chances of re-election later this year will suffer. Heads will roll.
但是，如果风头被讲究“tiki-taka”式快速、精准传球的上届冠军西班牙队，或永远来势汹汹的德国战车，以及可恶的、由天才球星梅西(Messi)率领的阿根廷队抢走，那巴西人的哀伤一定会绵绵无绝期。总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)今年晚些时候在大选中梅开二度的机会也将受到影响。有人将会官位不保。
Few things are more certain than that. Except perhaps that the United States and England will not get beyond the quarter-finals.
几乎没有什么事情比这更确定了。也许除了“美国和英国最多只能走到四分之一决赛”之外。
Drink the caipirinhas. But with cachaça (local rum-like liquor), not vodka. Sprinkle most food with farofa (a toasted manioc flour mixture). Farofa is essential with moqueqa (a fish stew made with coconut milk, tomatoes, onions, garlic, coriander and palm oil), which in my view is best eaten (very slowly) in Bahia. Try the bacalhau (dry, salted cod) prepared in a thousand forms. Hit a churrascaria or two to consume quantities of barbecued meat speared on skewers and cut at the table. Accompany with deep-fried “aipim,” (manioc), and a salad of tomato and heart of palm. Emerge fuller than you imagined possible. Drink more caipirinha.
喝些凯匹林纳鸡尾酒(Caipirinha)吧。但要喝那种用卡莎萨（cachaça，当地一种类似朗姆的烈酒），而不是伏特加调制的。大多数食物上都要撒法洛法（farofa，一种烤木薯粉的混合物）。它对莫奎肯（moqueqa，一种炖鱼，用椰奶、西红柿、洋葱、大蒜、香菜和棕榈油烹制）来说必不可少，以我之见，这道菜最好是在巴伊亚州细嚼慢咽地品尝。你也可以试试各种方法制作的马介休（bacalhau，腌鳕鱼干）。去一两家巴西式烤肉餐厅(Churrascaria)，对着那些串起来烤制、在餐桌上分切的烤肉猛啃一气。配上一些炸透的“aipim”（木薯），以及番茄和棕榈树心沙拉。你可能没想到自己能吃下这么多东西。再喝些凯匹林纳。
The next day run along the ridged firm sand at water’s edge to feel better about your body in a body-conscious culture and gaze at the majesty of the forested mountains. Go for a stroll. Watch out for Tom Jobim’s “Garota de Ipanema.” She is still around. Do not be cowed by alarmist tales of thievery and thugs. “Pagar para ver,” the Brazilians say, or very roughly don’t curb your curiosity in the name of caution.
第二天，你不妨到海边沿着隆起的坚实沙道跑步，在这个十分注重身材的文化里，让自己感觉好一点，同时欣赏壮美山林。去散散步。看看汤姆·若宾(Tom Jobim)描绘的“伊帕内玛女郎”(Garota de Ipanema)。她仍在这里。关于偷窃和恶棍的传闻危言耸听，请不要被它们吓倒。“Pagar para ver，”巴西人说，大致意思是：不要以谨慎为由遏制你的好奇心。
Tudo bem?
Tudo bem？
Most Brazilians, in my experience of living there and being married to one, have a natural optimism, goodness and humility — the latter captured in the extraordinary and widespread expression “desculpa qualquer coisa,” or please excuse anything that may somehow, for some reason, due to some mischance, not have been pleasing. They are deeply linked to their land. No single word is more evocative for a Brazilian than “saudade”— the longing combined with nostalgia that often informs the lyrics and rhythms of Brazilian music. In no other country do gentleness and violence reside in such proximity to each other. If you read one book, choose Peter Robb’s “A Death in Brazil.”
根据我住在巴西以及和一个巴西人结婚的经历，大多数巴西人都天性乐观、善良而谦卑——后者体现在“desculpa qualquer coisa”这种特别而普遍的措辞上，它的意思是：有些东西可能不知何故，出于某种不巧的原因，变得令人不快，请谅解所有这样的东西。巴西人跟他们的土地之间有很深的联系。对于巴西人来说，没有哪个词比“saudade”更令人回味，它指的是带有恋旧意味的渴望之情，往往贯穿在巴西音乐的歌词和节奏中。温柔和暴力在巴西如此靠近地毗邻而居，这在世界上绝无仅有。如果你想阅读一本书，不妨看看彼得·罗伯(Peter Robb)的《魂断巴西》(A Death in Brazil)。
It is important to win. But that is not quite everything. Brazil, five times World Cup champions, has (nearly) always played beautiful soccer — creative, liquid, improvised, unpredictable and at times outrageous. It’s a land of magic and love (amor).
赢得本届世界杯非常重要。但那也不是一切。巴西曾五次夺得世界杯赛冠军，（几乎）总是能把足球踢得别具美感——富有创意、流畅自如、即兴发挥、不可预测，有时肆无忌惮。这是一片充满爱(amor)与魔力的土地。