The problem with issue books (bibliotherapy, as some people call them) is that they can introduce new anxieties. Not every 5-year-old thinks about going to school for the first time and worries, “What if my teacher doesn’t like me?” So it is refreshing to see books that treat the school day as a wonderful adventure, and let kids cozy up to the idea by allowing other sorts of creatures — like pigs and grown-ups — make initial forays into that new environment on their behalf.
问题图书（有人称之为阅读疗法）的问题在于它们会产生新的焦虑。并不是每个五岁的孩子都会考虑第一次上学这件事，都会担心“要是老师不喜欢我怎么办”。所以看到一些书把入学日看做一次奇妙的历险，让人觉得耳目一新。为了让孩子们喜欢上学，这些书让其他类型的生物——比如猪和成年人——闯入了那个新环境。
“Rufus Goes to School," by Kim T. Griswell, with illustrations by Valerie Gorbachev, is so charming it could be enjoyed at any time of year. But this tale of a piglet’s bid to get an education is perfect for September. When he presents himself at school, Rufus trots down the hall to the principal’s office, where he is told, unequivocally, “No pigs in school!” “Why not?” asks Rufus, and the principal lists all the naughty and disruptive things a pig would do in school if he were allowed to attend — playing leapfrog in the classroom, starting food fights in the cafeteria, and turning drawings into airplanes. But the piglet tries again and again, until he is, of course, finally admitted.
由金·T·格里斯维尔(Kim T. Griswell)编写、瓦莱丽·戈尔巴乔夫(Valerie Gorbachev)绘图的《鲁弗斯上学记》(Rufus Goes to School)特别有趣，适合在一年中的任何时候看。但是这个小猪争取上学的故事特别适合9月份看。鲁弗斯来到学校后，沿着走廊一路小跑来到校长办公室，结果被明确告知：“猪不准上学！”“为什么猪不准上学？”鲁弗斯问道。校长列举了猪上学的话会怎样顽皮，会造成怎样的破坏——在教室里玩跳背游戏，在餐厅里引发食物大战，把图画做成纸飞机。但是这只小猪经过再三努力最终获准入学。
Griswell’s storytelling has just the right amount of repetition and predictability, like a catchy song. There’s a pleasure in hearing the principal say, as expected, that the pig’s backpack (and later his lunchbox, then his blanket) “make no difference” — the pig still can’t attend. And Gorbachev’s pen, ink and watercolor pictures are timelessly appealing: richly colored, with soft, sketchy lines and funny details. Though this Ukrainian-born illustrator’s style is his own, it brings to mind Garth Williams, David McPhail and Maurice Sendak.
格里斯维尔故事里重复和可预测的情节的分量刚刚好，就像一首朗朗上口的歌曲。当听见校长如读者预期的那样说这只小猪的背包（后来是午餐饭盒，然后是毯子）“跟其他人的没有不同”时，很让人高兴，虽然当时它依然未被允许上学。戈尔巴乔夫的钢笔、墨水和水彩画一直很吸引人：色彩丰富，线条柔和逼真，还有很多有趣的细节。虽然这位乌克兰出生的插画师有自己的风格，但是他的画还是会让人想起加思·威廉姆斯(Garth Williams)、大卫·麦克费尔(David McPhail)和莫里斯·森达克(Maurice Sendak)的画。
The young narrator of “The Day My Mom Came to Kindergarten," by Maureen Fergus, with illustrations by Mike Lowery, announces that she liked school “from the very first day. It was better than a dinosaur museum, a circus and a super-duper mega-three-scooper ice-cream sundae.” Her mother, however, seems to have mixed feelings, ”a little sad that I was growing up and starting to have adventures without her.” So her daughter invites her into class. But in a funny role switch, Mom isn’t quite sure how to behave, and embarrasses her daughter thoroughly: she shouts out answers, doesn’t clean up after making a mess, and forgets to use her indoor voice in the library. 
《我妈妈来幼儿园的那天》(The Day My Mom Came to Kindergarten)由莫琳·弗格斯(Maureen Fergus)编写、麦克·洛维利(Mike Lowery)绘图。书中年轻的讲述者声称她“从第一天起”就喜欢上了学校，说“学校比恐龙博物馆、马戏团或者美味的超大三勺冰激凌圣代还要好”。不过她妈妈的情绪似乎比较复杂，这位母亲“因为我长大了，要离开她，开始自己的历险，感到有点哀伤”。所以女儿邀请母亲一起去上课。但是她们的角色发生有趣的调换，她妈妈不守规矩，做的事情让女儿十分难堪：大声喊出答案，不收拾乱摊子，在图书馆大声说话。
Fergus’s light humor keeps the story amusing rather that instructive (most kids catch on to that kind of hidden lesson pretty quickly), and Mike Lowery’s simple, full-page illustrations make the most of the silly action. It’s a rare picture book that shows a mother frowning as furiously as this one does when, having trouble with scissors during Craft Time, she makes “a loud huffy noise” and slams them down on the table.
弗格斯的轻幽默让这个故事变得很有趣，而不那么具有说教意味（大部分孩子能很快领悟其中隐藏的教训），麦克·洛维利简单的满版插图充分表现了那些愚蠢的行为。这是一本罕见的图画书，书里的妈妈在手工课上不会使用剪刀时也会暴躁地皱起眉头，发出“大声的怒气冲冲的声音”，把剪刀摔到桌子上。
As Rufus the pig knows, the great thing about going to school is learning to read, and these books are a reminder of what a delight that can be, for parents and children together or independently.
就像鲁弗斯知道的那样，上学的好处在于能学会读书，而上面这两本书恰恰让我们想起了读书是多么有趣，不管是父母和孩子一起读还是孩子单独阅读。