Of the 1,200 or so undergraduate admission essays that Chris Lanser reads each year at Wesleyan University, maybe 10 are about work.
卫斯理安大学(Wsleyan University)的克里斯·兰泽(Chris Lanser)每年阅览大约1200份本科生入学申请陈述，其中可能只有10篇是有关工作的。
This is not much of a surprise. Many applicants have never worked. Those with plenty of money may be afraid of calling attention to their good fortune. And writing about social class is difficult, given how mixed up adolescents often are about identity.
这并不是多么令人惊讶的事。很多申请人之前从没有过工作经历。那些非常富裕的人可能担心别人会注意到自己的好运，而探讨社会阶层又并非易事，因为青少年经常对身份地位充满困惑。
Yet it is this very reluctance that makes tackling the topic a risk worth taking at schools where it is hard to stand out from the thousands of other applicants. Financial hardship and triumph, and wants and needs, are the stuff of great literature. Reflecting on them is one excellent way to differentiate yourself in a deeply personal way.
然而，正是因为这种不情愿，写出有关这个主题的文章便成为了一个值得冒的险，因为想要从成千上万名申请者中脱颖而出并不容易。经济上的困难和成就、欲望和需求，都是极佳的写作素材，而对这些素材进行深入的思考是凸显自己与众不同的一种颇具个性化的好方式。
Each year, to urge them on, we put out an open call for application essays about these subjects and publish the best essays that we can find. This year, we chose seven with the help of Julie Lythcott-Haims, the former dean of freshmen at Stanford whose new book, “How to Raise an Adult,” is coming out next month.
为了鼓励学生这么做，我们每一年都公开号召大家写有关这些主题的申请陈述，并且发表我们所能找到的最好的文章。今年，在朱莉·利思科特-海姆斯(Julie Lythcott-Haims)的帮助下，我们挑选出了七篇。利思科特-海姆斯曾任斯坦福大学的新生院长，她的新书《怎样教出一个合格的成年人》(How to Raise an Adult)将在下个月问世。
The essays that came over the transom were filled with raw, decidedly mixed feelings about parents and their sacrifices; trenchant accounts of the awkwardness of straddling communities with vastly different socio-economic circumstances; and plain-spoken — yet completely affecting — descriptions of what it means to make a living and a life in America today.
在这些主动提交的文章里，学生们描述了在面对父母及其做出的牺牲时自己那五味杂陈的真挚情感，用犀利的语言再现了自己在社会经济状况迥异的社区间穿梭时的窘迫，用直白却感人至深的文字勾勒出了生存和生活在当今美国社会的含义。
The single most memorable line we read this year came from an essay by Carolina Sosa, who lives in Centreville, Va., and will attend Georgetown University. In writing about her father’s search for a job, she described the man named Dave who turned him away.
今年我们所读过的最令人难忘的一句话出自卡洛琳娜·索萨(Carolina Sosa)之手。她住在弗吉尼亚州的森特维尔，已被乔治敦大学(Georgetown University)录取。在写到父亲找工作时，她对把父亲拒之门外的“戴夫”进行了一番描述。
“Job searching is difficult for everyone, but in a world full of Daves, it’s almost impossible,” she wrote. “Daves are people who look at my family and immediately think less of us. They think illegal, poor and uneducated. Daves never allow my dad to pass the first round of job applications. Daves watch like hawks as my brother and I enter stores. Daves inconsiderately correct my mother’s grammar. Because there are Daves in the world, I have become a protector for my family.”
“找工作对每一个人来说都是困难的，但在一个到处是戴夫这样的人的世界里，它变成了几乎不可能的事”，她写到。“戴夫们一看到我的家人就会立刻看扁我们，认为我们是贫穷、没有接受过教育的非法移民。戴夫们永远不会让我的父亲通过第一轮工作申请。我和我的兄弟进入商店时，戴夫们就会像老鹰一样紧盯着我们。戴夫们会纠正我母亲的语法，丝毫不顾及对方的感受。因为世界上有戴夫们的存在，我成为了家人的守护者。”
Vanessa J. Krebs, assistant director of undergraduate admissions at Georgetown, who reads about 1,400 essays year, told me that when she first received my interview request, the phrase “the Daves” immediately jumped out of her memory bank.
乔治敦大学本科生招生助理主任瓦内萨·J·克雷布斯(Vanessa J. Krebds)每年大约阅览1400份申请陈述。她告诉我，一收到我的采访要求时，“戴夫们”这个措辞就立刻从她的记忆里蹦了出来。
Though Ms. Sosa might easily have become embittered by her encounters with the Daves, Ms. Krebs said that she was moved by the fact that the essay concluded with the desire to pursue a career in public service, even if she wasn’t exactly sure where that desire would take her.
尽管遇到戴夫这样的人或许很容易让索萨变得满腔怨恨，不过令克雷布斯颇为感动的是，索萨在文章结尾部分写到自己想要从事公共服务领域的工作，虽然她并不完全确定这份渴望会带领自己走向何处。
“This is a starting point, and she is still figuring that out,” Ms. Krebs said. “A lot of people think they need to have all the answers already. Or they feel like they do have it all figured out.”
“这是一个起点，她仍然在摸索，”克雷布斯说。“很多人认为需要一早知道所有的答案，或者说他们以为自己确实已经找到了所有的答案。”
Other memorable moments emerged in an essay by Martina Piñeiros, a Chicago resident who will be attending Northwestern University.
其他一些难忘的瞬间出现在玛蒂娜·皮涅罗(Martina Piñeiros)的文章中。她住在芝加哥，即将进入西北大学(Northwestern University)。
“Fatigue and two jobs had ruined who both my parents used to be, and I began to value the little time I had with my mother more than ever before,” she wrote. “This little time could not make up for the time I spent alone, however, nor could it assuage the envy I had of the little girl my mother looked after. She, though not my mother’s daughter, had the privilege of having my mother and her delicious cooking all to herself; I would always get the leftovers. She also had the privilege of having my mother pin her silky blonde hair into a pretty bun before ballet classes while my dad wrestled with the hairbrush to pull my thick brown hair into two lopsided ponytails before dropping me off at the bus stop. But I couldn’t blame the girl for depriving me of my mother; her parents had also been consumed by their jobs.”
“疲劳和两份工作已经毁了我昔日的父母，而我开始前所未有地珍惜和母亲在一起的一点点时间，”她写道。“然而，这点时间并不能弥补我独自一人的时光，也不能减轻我对母亲照顾的那个小女孩的嫉妒。她尽管不是我母亲的孩子，却拥有了独占我母亲并享受她美味烹饪的特权；而我得到的总是剩下的。她还拥有在芭蕾舞课前由我母亲把她柔顺的金发盘成一个漂亮的圆髻的特权，而我却只能是父亲在送我到公交站前勉强用发刷把我浓密的棕发分成两束一高一低的马尾辫。但是我不能埋怨那个女孩夺走了我的母亲；她的父母也因为工作忙得焦头烂额。”
It is rare that any teenagers write well about what it is like to have more money than average. Most don’t even try, for fear of being marked as privileged in a world where some people resent those who have it or are clueless about it. Yorana Wu, who lives in Great Neck, N.Y., and will attend the University of Chicago, wrote about her father, who spends much of the year in China, where he opened a canned fruit factory when Ms. Wu was 8 years old.
青少年通常难以出色地描绘出比一般人富裕是怎么回事。多数人试也不试，因为世上有人憎恶富人，或者对此没有概念，让他们担心被贴上特权人士的标签。住在纽约州大颈镇的尤拉娜·吴(Yorana Wu)即将进入芝加哥大学。她在申请陈述中写道，父亲每年有大把时间在中国度过，因为他在她8岁那年的时候在那里开了一家水果罐头厂。
“That was the first year a seat at the dinner table remained empty and a car in the garage sat untouched,” she wrote. “Every dollar comes at the expense of his physical distance.”
“餐桌上的一张椅子一直空着，车库里的一辆车也没被动过，那是第一年出现这种情况，”她写道。“每一美元都以他的遥不可及为代价。”
While she has her tennis and music lessons (and expresses mixed feelings about the affluence that allows for them), she speaks to him in five-minute phone segments when he is away.
尽管她可以上网球和音乐课（并且对支撑了这些课程的财富表现出复杂的感受），但父亲不在身边的时候，她往往只能和他通五分钟的电话。
“He is living the American dream by working elsewhere,” Ms. Lythcott-Haims, my fellow reader, observed. “There is a cost to this choice.”
“他通过在别的地方工作来实现美国梦，”和我一起读申请陈述的利思科特-海姆斯这样评论。“这个选择是有代价的。”
We published a pair of essays about what it means to navigate two worlds simultaneously. One, by Annabel La Riva, who is also the subject of a video feature, discusses the distance (in more ways than one) between her Brooklyn home and her Manhattan church choir, where her love for singing began.
我们还发表了两篇关于同时在两个世界穿梭意味着什么的文章。其中一篇的作者是安娜贝尔·拉·里瓦(Annabel La Riva)；她同时也是一则特写视频的主角。她在文中探讨了自己在布鲁克林的家和在曼哈顿的教堂唱诗班之间（不止一个层面）的距离。后者是她开始爱上歌唱的地方。
In another, Jon Carlo Dominguez of North Bergen, N.J., discusses his choice to turn right out his front door, toward the prep school he attends, instead of left, toward his neighborhood school. When the two schools meet on the football field, he writes, some of his classmates shout, “That’s all right, that’s O.K., you’ll be working for us someday.” His response is to tutor his local friends with his used test-preparation books, share guides to lucid dreaming and pass on tips he learned from Dale Carnegie.
在另一篇文章中，来自新泽西州北卑尔根的胡恩·卡洛·多明格斯(Jon Carlo Dominguez)讨论了自己的选择：出门向右，去一家预科学校上学，而不是向左，去社区学校。当两家学校在橄榄球场上相遇时，他写道，自己的一些同学喊道，“没关系，没问题，有一天你们会为我们干活的。”他的回应是用自己的二手备考书籍给附近的朋友辅导功课、分享做清醒梦的方法并且传授从戴尔·卡内基(Dale Carnegie)那里学来的窍门。
“Every single day he is making a choice, and he is conscious of the costs and the benefits on both sides,” Ms. Lythcott-Haims said. “The way that he addresses it is beautiful. He’s trying to bridge that world and be that bridge.”
“他每天都在做选择，而且他清楚两边的代价和好处，”利思科特-海姆斯说。“他应对这个问题的方式很漂亮。他努力把世界联接起来，让自己成为那座桥梁。”
One of the 10 or so essays that Mr. Lanser, the associate dean of admission for Wesleyan, read about work this year was set at a Domino’s Pizza store in Forestdale, Ala. Adriane Tharp, who will attend the university in the fall, is the author, and her rendering of the lineup of fellow misfits who were her colleagues there is something to behold.
今年，卫斯理安大学招生助理院长兰泽读到了大约10篇关于工作的文章，其中一篇讲述的事情发生在阿拉巴马州福里斯特代尔的达美乐比萨店(Domino’s Pizza)。文章作者是将于今年秋季上卫斯理安的阿德里亚·撒普(Adriane Tharp)。她描述了自己在店里的一群不同寻常的同事，很值得一看。
There is the pizza maker from Pakistan who looks like Bob Dylan and sings folk songs from his homeland; the part-time preacher who also delivers pies; and Richard, the walking “Star Wars” encyclopedia. One woman has worked for pizzerias for over 25 years and is about to apply to college.
那里有一名来自巴基斯坦的披萨厨师，长得像鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)，经常吟唱家乡的民歌；有一个兼职牧师，同时也送外卖；还有《星球大战》(Star Wars)的活百科全书理查德(Richard)。有名女子在披萨店工作了逾25年，现在正准备申请大学。
“The point of the essay is not to tell us that she needs work or doesn’t,” Mr. Lanser said. “What she wants us to learn from this is that she is able to embrace difference and learn quite a bit from those differences.”
“文章的重点不是告诉我们她需不需要工作，”兰泽说。“她希望我们能从中了解到，自己能接受差异，而且还能从这些不同之中学到很多。”
I offered him the opportunity to disabuse overeager parents of the notion that admissions officers at competitive colleges devalue work experience, and he laughed. “We think there are valuable life skills and people skills to be gained in the workplace,” he said, adding that he personally believes that everyone should work in the service industry at some point in their lives.
我给兰泽提供了一个机会，让他说服那些过于热切的父母，在竞争激烈的院校，招生人员不重视工作经历是一种错误的观念。他笑了。“我们认为，职场中能获得一些有价值的生活技能和人际交往技能，”他说。他个人认为，每个人都应该尝试在生命的某个时刻从事服务业的工作。
Rob Henderson’s service was to his country, and his essay was ultimately about what the United States Air Force did for him.
罗伯·亨德森(Rob Henderson)的服务对象则是自己的国家。说到底，他的文章探讨的是美国空军对他的影响。
Of his time as a foster child, he wrote, “I was compelled to develop social skills to receive care from distracted foster parents.” He was finally adopted, but his parents quickly divorced (the adoption came up in arguments before his father cut off ties) and eventually found stability with his mother and her partner, at least until her partner was shot. An insurance settlement led to a home purchase, which ended in foreclosure.
他写道，作为寄养儿童的时候，“为了从寄宿家庭心不在焉的父母那里获得照顾，我被迫学会了一些社交技能。”他终于被人领养，但父母很快就离婚了（领养一事成为了争执的一个话题，后来父亲与他们断绝了联系）。他在母亲及其伴侣那里最终找到了安定感，至少在这名伴侣遭遇枪击之前是这样。在获得保险理赔之后，他们购买了一处房产，但又被贷款机构收走。
After high school, he enlisted. Eight years later, he’s still deciding where he’ll attend college in the fall. “I’ve accomplished much over the last seven years because the Air Force provides an organized setting that contrasts with the chaos of my upbringing,” he wrote.
高中毕业后，他参了军。八年之后，他还在思考秋天去哪里上大学。“过去七年，我完成了许多事。因为空军提供了一个有组织的环境，这不同于我在成长过程中的混乱，”他写道。
Ms. Lythcott-Haims felt herself rooting for him, and she added that his essay was a good reminder that the United States military is a beacon for many young adults, even with the high risks that may come with their service. “This is one way you make a life in America,” she said. “It’s more common than we realize. And he is self-made.”
利思科特-海姆斯感同身受。她还表示，亨德森的文章很好地提醒了人们，对于许多年轻人来说，美国军队是一座灯塔，尽管服役可能伴随着比较高的风险。“这是你在美国谋生的方式之一，”她说。“这比我们认识到的更常见。他靠的是自己。”