My emergency unit handled a man who had been shot in the leg in the early hours of the morning. The trauma surgeons refused to have him transferred to the ward for wound management because they believed the victim would be pursued by his assailants, thereby posing a safety risk to staff members and patients. The police in the E.R. declined to pat down the injured man for weapons, as they were not legally empowered to do so. The man was retained in emergency for 12 hours. The emergency unit, which has an open-door policy for all comers 24/7, would most likely be the first place that assailants would look for an injured man. Are there ethical ramifications with the transfer of violent risk? JOSEPH TING, BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA
今天凌晨，我的急诊室接诊了一名腿部中枪的男子。创伤外科医生拒绝接受他转入病房进行伤口护理，因为他们认为行凶者可能会继续追击受害人，从而威胁医护人员和其他病人的安全。且由于并无对伤者搜身的合法权力，急诊室警察拒绝搜查伤者身上是否携带有武器。该男子滞留急诊室达12小时。急诊部的政策是一周7天每天24小时开放，因此行凶者要寻找伤者，最有可能从这里下手。我想询问的是：转移伤者（及其伴随的暴力风险）是否存在伦理道德方面的争议？约瑟夫·丁(JOSEPH TING)，澳大利亚布里斯班
The first note I would make is purely practical: You mentioned that police officers were on site in the emergency room. My assumption is that there were not any police officers in the hospital ward. So if the risk of violence against this man was immediate and irrefutable, the logical move would have been to keep the patient as close to the police as possible (wherever they may be). That just seems like common sense.
首先我注意到一个纯粹实际的问题：您提到在您的急诊室里有警察在场。按照我的假设，医院病房里应该没有任何警务人员。那么，如果该男子确实面临着直接的暴力风险，最合理的处置应该是让他离警方（无论他们在哪里）越近越好。这是常识。
That, however, isn’t the wider, more complicated element of your query: You’re trying to establish if it’s better to hold one person in place (and to withhold the proper medical treatment) than it is to move him somewhere that might incur potential risk to wholly uninvolved bystanders. Now I don’t know the complete details of this case. I was not in the room. But I get the impression you believe the injured patient was not necessarily a completely innocent party — that is, you believe there may have been an exchange of gunfire that led to his being shot. If you didn’t, you wouldn’t have mentioned that the police didn’t pat him down. Such a notion wouldn’t have even have occurred to you if you didn’t see him as marginally complicit.
然而，您所询问的问题范围更加宽泛，也更加复杂：如果将伤者滞留在原地，就无法进行适当的治疗；但如将其转移往别处，则可能给与他完全无关的旁人带来潜在的风险——您试图确定这两种选择中哪种更好。由于我当时并不在现场，因此我并不清楚这个案例的全部细节。但您的描述给我这样一种感觉：您认为伤者本人并非全然清白无辜——也就是说，您认为有可能是双方交火才导致他受到枪击。否则您就不会提到警方未对他进行搜身。如果您觉得他与此事毫无瓜葛，您是不会特意指出这一点的。
So if you think the patient himself would pose a threat to the ward, you can’t send him there without police supervision. Still, it isn’t reasonable to suspect that a man might engage in an indoor firefight from the operating table on the basis that someone else shot him in the leg. Concern for your staff’s and patients’ safety is a good impulse, but you have to start from the position that the victim is the victim.
既然您认为伤者本身可能对病房造成威胁，您当然就不能将他转移到任何不受警方监管的地方。然而，仅凭某人腿上中枪就怀疑他可能在手术台上持枪伤人显然并不合理。关心员工和病人的安全是好意没错，但您考虑问题首先要站在将受害人确实看作是受害人的立场上。
I relayed this circumstance to an emergency-room doctor, and he saw it as relatively straightforward: “The potential for further violence does not supersede the Hippocratic oath.” He said the surgeons have a duty to care for the patient in the manner that best reflects his condition and that holding a patient in the E.R. inappropriately transfers the duty of care to a different physician. He also noted that the ward is almost certainly safer than the emergency room because of the E.R.’s open-door policy. My conclusion is that the most ethical response from the medical staff would have been to treat the man like any other patient and to place the responsibility of stopping further violence upon the police. I can certainly imagine situations where such an answer is less clear (e.g., if there were no police available, if the patient said a foe was imminently approaching, if the patient had a bomb strapped to his chest, if the patient was going to testify the following day in a high-profile organized-crime trial, etc.), but — in the circumstances described in your letter — the man should have been transferred and treated normally.
我将这些情况转述给了一位急诊室医生，他认为这件事相当简单：“你不能因为有可能发生进一步的暴力事件就违背希波克拉底誓言。”他说医生有责任以最适合伤者的方式来提供医护服务，将其滞留在急诊室实际上是不当地将医护责任转移给了另一名医生。他还指出，由于急诊室的敞开政策，几乎可以肯定病房比急诊室更安全。因此，我的结论是，从医务人员的角度来讲，最符合伦理道德的处置是将这名男子与别的病患等同对待，把阻止进一步暴力行为的责任交由警方承担。当然，我也能想像在某些情况下，答案可能就不那么明确了（例如，如果附近没有警察，或者伤者说他的仇家马上就要追来，又或者伤者的胸前绑了炸弹，或是他次日要在一场备受瞩目的团伙组织犯罪审判中出庭作证，等等），但是——按照您来信中所述的情况——理应对该男子进行转移到病房并进行正常治疗。