If you want to know the truth, the Wolf of Wall Street — the person, that is, not the Martin Scorsese-Leonardo DiCaprio movie that opens on Christmas Day — spent only a fleeting few months on the actual Wall Street. In 1987, Jordan Belfort — a.k.a. the wolf himself — took a job at L. F. Rothschild, an old white-shoe firm. It was his first job in the business, and he was given the assignment of cold-calling “prospects” that he would then turn over to a broker. In his memoir — upon which the movie is based — Mr. Belfort claims, among other things, that a successful Rothschild broker (played by Matthew McConaughey on screen) took him to lunch on his first day and told him to masturbate often if he hoped to be a good broker himself. Given Rothschild’s stodgy reputation, I tend to think this story is an exaggeration, an act of salesmanship intended to lure in Hollywood. No matter. Not long after Mr. Belfort began working for L. F. Rothschild, the crash of 1987 wiped out the firm and took his job with it.
如果你想知道真相，那我告诉你华尔街之狼——我说的是那个人，不是圣诞节上映的马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)导演、莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)主演的那部电影——只在现实中的华尔街待过很短的几个月时间。1987年，乔丹·贝尔福(Jordan Belfort)——也就是华尔街之狼本人——在老牌精英公司罗斯柴尔德(L. F. Rothschild)得到一个职位。那是他在商界的第一份工作，他的任务是冒昧地给“潜在客户”打电话，然后把这些客户转给经纪人。在贝尔福的回忆录中——电影就是根据他的回忆录改编的——他声称自己上班第一天罗斯柴尔德公司的一位成功的经纪人（片中由马修·麦康纳[Matthew McConaughey]扮演）带他去吃午餐，告诉他如果他想成为一名优秀的经纪人，他需要经常自慰。考虑到罗斯柴尔德保守的名声，我倾向于认为这个故事有点夸大其实，是为了诱惑好莱坞的一个营销手段。没关系。贝尔福为罗斯柴尔德公司工作不久之后，1987年的金融危机压垮了这家公司，他的工作也跟着玩儿完了。
It was Long Island where Belfort picked up the pieces. He found a job pitching penny stocks — that is, stocks that are too small to be listed on any exchange, many of which are fly-by-night companies — and realized he had found his calling. He was such a good salesman that he soon went out on his own, founding a brokerage house with his friend Danny Porush. They called it Stratton Oakmont, mainly because the title sounded high-toned, which they were most certainly not. Stratton Oakmont was a classic “pump and dump” operation: Mr. Belfort and several of his fellow executives would buy up stock in a particular company and then have his legions of brokers (using a script he had written) sell that stock to unwitting investors — which would cause the stock to rise, allowing Belfort and company to sell their shares at a nice profit. Inevitably, the stock would fall back to earth, leaving the investors holding the bag. Everything I’ve just described is illegal, as Mr. Belfort was well aware.
贝尔福是在长岛重整旗鼓的。他找到一个推荐仙股的工作——仙股就是那些价格太低，无法在任何交易所挂牌的股票，其中很多是皮包公司——他发现自己很适合干这个。他特别善于推销，所以很快就开始单干，和朋友丹尼·波鲁什(Danny Porush)开了一个经纪公司，取名为斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特(Stratton Oakmont)，主要是因为这个名字听起来很高尚，这是他俩肯定缺乏的品质。斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特是个典型的“哄抬股价”的公司：贝尔福和几个主管买下某个公司的全部股票，然后让他的“经纪人军团”（用他写的说词）把股票卖给不知情的投资者，这会拉动股价上涨，此时贝尔福和它的公司卖出股票，赚一大笔钱。这支股价最终肯定会下跌，投资人们落得两手空空。我说的这些都是非法的，贝尔福深知这一点。
When “The Wolf of Wall Street” hits screens, there will inevitably be a temptation to connect it to the financial crisis of five years ago. But the rise and fall of Stratton Oakmont in the late 1980s and ’90s has nothing to do with the events that brought the financial system to the brink. It’s just that movies don’t do well describing what really happens day to day on Wall Street, not even Oliver Stone’s two tries. It is easier — and in many ways more sensible — to do films like “The Wolf of Wall Street” and “Boiler Room” (the 2000 drama that was also said to be modeled after Stratton Oakmont). It is much easier to convey on screen Mr. Belfort’s greed than Goldman Sachs’s.
等《华尔街之狼》(“The Wolf of Wall Street”)上映时，人们必然会把它和五年前的金融危机联系起来。但是斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司在20世纪80年代末和90年代的兴衰与把金融体系带到崩溃边缘的那些事件毫无关联。只是因为电影不能很好地描述华尔街每天发生的真实情况而已——甚至连奥利弗·斯通(Oliver Stone)的两次尝试也做不到。拍摄像《华尔街之狼》和《锅炉房》（Boiler Room，2000年上映的影片，据说也是以斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司为原型的)这样的电影更容易——从很多方面讲也更明智。在银屏上表现贝尔福的贪婪比表现高盛投资公司(Goldman Sachs)的贪婪要容易得多。
Still, while those two firms are worlds apart in most respects, there is one important way in which they are alike, and why using Stratton Oakmont as a proxy for Wall Street is not such a stretch. The brokers (or traders in the case of Goldman) are, at bottom, salesmen. As the saying goes, “Stocks are sold, not bought.” What is mesmerizing about Mr. Belfort (played in the film by Mr. DiCaprio) is that he is an extreme example of the smooth-talking, I-can-sell-anything, salesman. And he’s hardly the first such type in finance. In the early 1960s, a man named Bernard Cornfeld used to draw people into his financial empire by asking, “Do you sincerely want to be rich?” And they say Charles Ponzi was a pretty good salesman, too. What does Goldman Sachs do if not sell? It’s just a different product.
不过，虽然这两家公司在大多数方面有天壤之别，但是它们在一个重要方面非常相似，而且用斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司作为华尔街的代表也不是那么离谱。那些经纪人（或者高盛公司的交易员）从本质上讲是销售员。就像俗话说的，“股票是用来卖的，不是用来买的。”贝尔福（在电影中由迪卡普里奥扮演）的迷人之处在于他是那种能言善道、“什么我都能卖出去”的销售员的极端例子。在金融圈，他不是第一个这样的人。在20世纪60年代初，一个名叫伯纳德·科恩费尔德(Bernard Cornfeld)的人诱惑别人进入他的金融帝国的方式是问别人“你真的想发财吗？”据说查尔斯·庞兹(Charles Ponzi)也是个很好的销售员。高盛公司做的事情不是销售的话那是什么?只不过是产品不同而已。
As the Stratton Oakmont brokers got rich by following Mr. Belfort’s scripts, they became fiercely loyal to their boss. Mr. Belfort, for his part, “lived the life” (as he puts it in his book) and then some. He had several homes, a yacht, a helicopter and a trophy wife. By the time he was 26, he was worth tens of millions of dollars. He and his fellow executives took copious amounts of drugs and employed prostitutes almost daily. In his book, Mr. Belfort makes Stratton Oakmont sound like the most debauched brokerage that ever existed — and the movie takes full advantage, with scene after scene of drug-addled nights and sexcapades in the office during trading hours. And while I was inclined to view this as an exaggeration as well, Terence Winter, the screenwriter, told me that when he interviewed the F.B.I. agent who finally nailed Mr. Belfort, the man said, “I tracked this guy for 10 years, and everything he wrote is true.”
斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司的经纪人们按照贝尔福的脚本推销股票，然后发财了，所以他们对这位老板特别忠诚。贝尔福呢，他只管“享受生活”（就像他在书中说的那样）。他有几所房子，一个游艇，一个直升机和一个漂亮的老婆。他26岁时已有几千万美元的身家。他和主管们大量吸毒，几乎每天都招妓。贝尔福在书中把斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特描绘成史上最堕落的经纪公司，电影充分表现了这一点，展示了一幕幕因吸毒而变得昏昏沉沉的夜晚以及交易时间在办公室乱搞性关系的情景。虽然我倾向于认为这也是夸张，但是该片的编剧特伦斯·温特(Terence Winter)告诉我，他采访那位最终扳倒贝尔福的联邦调查局探员时，那位探员说，“我追踪这家伙十年了，他写的一切都是真的。”
As it happens, Mr. Winter, best known for his work on “The Sopranos” and “Boardwalk Empire,” also spent a short time on Wall Street. He was in law school in the mid-1980s when he worked part time as a legal assistant in the equity trading department at Merrill Lynch. He saw excess there, too, but it was mainly in the excessive salaries the executives made, especially compared with the good (or lack thereof) their services provided. What he most certainly did not see was drugs being openly consumed in the office, or hookers having the run of the place. Or, for that matter, crimes being committed openly. Wall Street’s sins are subtler than that. To describe Stratton Oakmont, Mr. Winter’s time on at Merrill Lynch did him little good.
温特最出名的作品是《黑道家族》(The Sopranos)和《大西洋帝国》(Boardwalk Empire)。他碰巧也在华尔街短暂地待过一段时间。20世纪80年代中期他在法律学院就读时，在美林证券公司的股票交易部当兼职法律助理。他在那里也看到了一些过分的情况，不过主要是主管们的薪水过高，特别是与他们提供的服务质量（或者缺乏质量）比较而言。他肯定没看到工作人员在办公室里公开吸毒或者妓女们在办公室里自由活动。从业务的角度讲，美林公司也没有公开从事犯罪活动。华尔街的罪恶比贝尔福那种方式要隐晦得多。温特在美林公司的经历对他描绘斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司基本没什么帮助。
Compare, for instance, Mr. Belfort’s biggest deal — the initial public offering of Steve Madden’s shoe company — with, say, the infamous Goldman Sachs Abacus trade in the prelude to the financial crisis of 2008. Mr. Belfort and Mr. Porush (called Donnie Azoff in the film and played by Jonah Hill) found what they called rat holes to hold stock that they actually controlled. (Mr. Porush’s rat hole was Steve Madden himself.) Once the shares were available to the public, Stratton’s brokers would get down to the business of selling them to the suckers: “I need a decision — Bill!” a broker said, turning up the pressure, according to Mr. Belfort’s account. “I need a decision now. Steve Madden is the hottest issue on Wall Street. There’s nothing to think about!” (Apropos of nothing, Mr. Belfort says his writing is modeled after a combination of the styles of Tom Wolfe and Hunter S. Thompson! Hence all the exclamation points!)
比如，拿贝尔福最大的一次交易——史蒂夫·马登(Steve Madden)制鞋公司的首次公募——与2008年金融危机之前高盛公司臭名昭著的Abacus交易相比。贝尔福和波鲁什（在电影中名叫唐尼·阿佐夫[Donnie Azoff]，乔纳·希尔[Jonah Hill]饰）找到他们称为“鼠洞”的公司，去持有实际上由他们控制的股票（波鲁什的“鼠洞”是史蒂夫·马登本人）。一旦股票上市，斯特拉顿的经纪人们马上开始向容易受骗的人推销：“我需要你的决定——比尔！”据贝尔福的描述，其中一个经纪人这样施加压力，“我现在就需要你的决定。史蒂夫·马登是华尔街最热门的股票。没什么好想的！”（我顺便说一句与此无关的话，贝尔福说自己的写作风格是效仿汤姆·伍尔夫[Tom Wolfe]和亨特·S·汤普森[Hunter S. Thompson]！难怪有那么多感叹号！）
After their brokers ran up the price of the stock, Mr. Belfort and Mr. Porush would have their rat holes sell, even though, as executives in the firm underwriting the shares, they were supposed to hold on to the stock for a designated period of time. You won’t find a simpler, more obvious example of financial crime. This is one of the many crimes for which Mr. Belfort and Mr. Porush went to prison. (And Steve Madden, too.)
在这些经纪人把股票价格抬高之后，贝尔福和波鲁什让他们的鼠洞抛售股票，尽管公司主管们认购这些股票的时候，本应当在指定的一段时间持有该股票。你不会找到比这更简单、更明显的金融犯罪了。这也是贝尔福和波鲁什（还有史蒂夫·马登）入狱的众多罪名中的一个。
Goldman’s Abacus deal was also an effort to take advantage of its clients, but it is so complicated that even now, most people don’t understand what happened. Fearing that a housing crash was nearing, Goldman bundled its worst mortgage bonds into a synthetic collateralized debt obligation — the kind of security the financial media would later label as “toxic mortgages.” It also allowed John Paulson, the hedge-fund manager who was betting against mortgage bonds, to help choose the bonds that went into the deal. And then, just like Stratton Oakmont, Goldman sold these pigs in a poke to the suckers — in its case several banks that on Goldman’s say-so, took the other side of the transaction, betting that the securities would rise in value. When the housing bubble burst, the banks were stuck with big losses, while Goldman and Mr. Paulson racked up gains. Just like Stratton Oakmont.
高盛公司的Abacus交易也是试图占客户的便宜，但是它非常复杂，即使到现在，大部分人也不理解到底发生了什么。高盛公司认为住房市场即将崩溃，所以把它最糟糕的抵押债券捆绑到一个综合担保债务凭证中——金融媒体后来将其称为“有毒抵押贷款”。它还允许不看好抵押债券的对冲基金管理人约翰·保尔森(John Paulson)帮忙选择进入这项交易的债券。然后，就像斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司一样，高盛公司把它卖给没有仔细察看的容易受骗的人——此案中受骗的是几家银行，按高盛公司的说法，这些银行持相反的立场，认为这些证券会升值。住房市场的泡沫破碎后，这几家银行损失惨重，而高盛公司和保尔森坐享暴利。就像斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司一样。
Are you with me so far? No? The selling of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation is nearly impossible to convey on screen. And in real life, it is less satisfying too, in the sense that while Goldman Sachs agreed to pay a fine to the Securities and Exchange Commission it was never criminally charged for its role in the financial crisis, and to this day has never admitted wrongdoing. None of Goldman’s bigwigs faced prosecution. (Fabrice Tourre, a midlevel employee, was tried on civil charges — and found liable — for his involvement in the deal.)
你听懂我前面说的这些了吗？没有？销售一个综合担保债务凭证几乎是不可能通过电影讲述清楚的。在现实生活中，此案的处理结果也不太令人满意——尽管高盛公司同意向证券交易委员会支付罚款，但是它从未因为在金融危机中扮演的角色而受到刑事指控，直到今天它也从未承认自己行为不当。高盛公司的要员们没有一个遭到起诉（其中一个中层雇员，法布里斯·图尔[Fabrice Tourre]，因为参与这场交易受到民事指控，被判负有法律责任）。
Mr. Winter said that when he was writing the script, he was forever trying to explain even the limited Wall Street terms “The Wolf of Wall Street” uses, like I.P.O., before finally concluding that it didn’t matter. “People don’t care,” he said. “The techno-speak goes in one ear and out the other. What they’ll remember is that in the Madden deal, Mr. Belfort made $23 million in two hours.”
温特说他在写剧本的时候，总是尽量解释“华尔街之狼”使用的有限的华尔街术语，比如首次公募，最后发现这无关紧要。“人们不关心，”他说，“这些技术术语左耳朵进，右耳朵出。他们能记住的将是在马登交易中，贝尔福在两小时内赚了2300万美元。”
Mr. Belfort, meanwhile, wound up in prison and wrote a book that is nothing if not a bravura act of salesmanship — selling his old self to the movies, while selling his new self as a motivational speaker to a new array of clients.
现在贝尔福在蹲大狱，同时写了一本书，这本书纯粹是对自己销售能力的大胆卖弄——把过去的自己推销给电影，把自己作为励志演说家的新身份推销给一大堆新客户。
For all the considerable pain Stratton Oakmont inflicted on its investors, here is something you should remember. It doesn’t even begin to approach the kind of pain the real Wall Street can inflict. Firms like Stratton Oakmont can’t bring the financial system to the precipice. They can’t cause a global recession. They can’t cause panic in London, New York and every other financial capital. To use Stratton Oakmont to represent Wall Street doesn’t begin to get at Wall Street’s sins.
虽然斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司给它的投资者带来的巨大痛苦，但你应该记住下面这一点。它给投资者带来的痛苦与真正的华尔街所带来的痛苦相比，简直不值一提。像斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特这样的公司不能使金融系统陷入绝境。它们不能导致全球经济衰退。它们不能让伦敦、纽约和所有其他的金融之都陷入恐慌。用斯特拉顿·奥克蒙特公司代表华尔街完全不能体现华尔街的罪恶。
Besides, who would ever buy a ticket to a movie called “The Wolf of Long Island”?
另外，谁会买票去看一部名叫《长岛之狼》的电影呢？