LONDON — Britain’s defense secretary, Michael Fallon, has resigned over allegations about his past conduct, amid a growing outcry over claims of sexual harassment or inappropriate behavior by British politicians.
伦敦——在英国政治人物面临越来越多性骚扰或不当行为的指控之际，英国国防大臣迈克尔·法伦(Michael Fallon)因对其过去行为的指控而辞职。
Mr. Fallon’s departure from his ministerial post was announced by the office of Prime Minister Theresa May, who released a formal letter of resignation on Wednesday night.
法伦去职的消息由首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)的办公室宣布，首相于周三晚上公布了他的正式辞职信。
“A number of allegations have surfaced about MPs in recent days, including some about my previous conduct,” wrote Mr. Fallon, referring to members of Parliament.
“最近几天出现了一些关于国会议员的指控，其中包括我以前的一些行为，”法伦在信中说。
“Many of these have been false but I accept in the past I have fallen below the high standards that we require of the Armed Forces that I have the honor to represent,” he said, adding that he had “reflected on my position and I am therefore resigning as Defense Secretary.”
“其中许多指控是不实的，但我认识到，我过去的行为，与我有幸代表的英国武装部队所需要的高标准是不相符的，”他还说，“经过对当前情势的反思，我决定辞去国防大臣一职。”
In response Mrs. May said she appreciated the “characteristically serious manner” in which Mr. Fallon had considered his position and paid tribute to “a long and impressive ministerial career — serving in four departments of State under four prime ministers.” Mr. Fallon had served as defense secretary since July 2014 and has not resigned his seat as a lawmaker.
对此，梅赞赏法伦以“他一如既往的严肃方式”审视自我，并称赞他“曾在四位首相的内阁任职，漫长的阁员生涯令人肃然起敬”。法伦自2014年7月开始担任国防大臣，并没有辞去议员职务。
Earlier this week he admitted that he had put his hand on the knee of a female journalist, Julia Hartley-Brewer, in 2002. She has accepted his apology, and made light of the incident in recent days, posting a picture of her knees on Twitter, and writing that they were still intact.
本周早些时候，他承认，2002年他曾把手放在女记者茱莉亚·哈特利-布鲁尔(Julia Hartley-Brewer)的膝盖上。她已经接受了他的道歉，并且在最近几天对事件进行了说明，还在Twitter上张贴了她膝盖的照片，附文称它们完好无损。
On Wednesday night Ms. Hartley-Brewer reacted with surprise at the resignation, but added, “I doubt that my knee was the reason.”
周三晚上，哈特利-布鲁尔听到法伦辞职的消息时表示惊讶，但补充说：“我不太相信是因为我的膝盖。”
Some British political journalists, including ITV’s political editor, Robert Peston, reported that Mr. Fallon may have quit because he feared that other, similar accusations might come to light.
包括ITV政治编辑罗伯特·皮斯顿(Robert Peston)在内的一些英国政治记者报道说，法伦辞职可能是因为担心出现其他类似指责。
Asked whether he feared more might emerge, Mr. Fallon told the BBC on Wednesday: “The culture has changed over the years. What might have been acceptable 15, 10 years ago is clearly not acceptable now. Parliament now has to look at itself.”
周三，BBC问法伦是否担心会有更多指责出现，他说：“文化是在变的。15年前、10年前，这样的行为或许还是可以接受的，如今显然是不能接受的。如今议会必须审视自己。”
Mr. Fallon’s resignation is a setback to Mrs. May, who will lose from her top ministerial team one of its most reliable media performers as negotiations on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union are making little progress.
对于梅来说，法伦的辞职是一个打击，如今，英国在脱欧谈判方面进展不大，而她将失去其内阁团队中在媒体上表现最好的成员之一。
It could also force her to reshuffle her cabinet sooner than expected, a politically difficult move, although she may opt for a minimalist reorganization of her top team. No replacement for Mr. Fallon was announced on Wednesday night.
这也可能会迫使她比预期更早地重组内阁，此举在政治上将面临困难，不过她可能会选择尽可能少地改变她的高层团队。周三晚上没有公布法伦的替代者。
Worse for Mrs. May, this might not be the last such resignation. An investigation has been opened into the behavior of another minister, Mark Garnier, after he admitted that he had asked a female member of his staff to buy sex toys.
对梅来说，更糟的是这样的辞职可能不是最后一例。另一位大臣马克·加尼尔(Mark Garnier)承认，他曾要求自己手下的一位女性工作人员为自己购买情趣用品，对他的调查随即展开。
In the aftermath of the allegations of sexual harassment and rape against the American movie producer Harvey Weinstein, many additional complaints are coming to light and a list of more than 30 lawmakers from Mrs. May’s Conservative Party who are said to have behaved inappropriately, has been circulating online, with names redacted.
继针对美国电影制片人哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)的性骚扰和强奸指控之后，其他许多投诉正在出现，网上流传着一份名单罗列了30多名有不当行为的议员，他们都属于梅的保守党，名单上的名字经过涂黑处理。
The claims vary from serious allegations of sexual harassment to indiscretions like marital infidelities.
他们的不当行为多种多样，从严重的性骚扰到婚内不忠等失检行为。
But like the world of entertainment, politics is profession in which senior individuals, mainly men, have considerable power over those trying to establish a career. And even some less serious allegations suggest an unacceptable degree of sexism or complacency about inappropriate behavior within the British Parliament.
但是同娱乐界一样，在政治领域，很多高级别人士（主要是男性）拥有很大的权力，可以决定初入行者的事业生涯。即便一些相对轻微的指控也表明，英国议会之内存在着令人无法容忍的性别歧视或对不当行为的自鸣得意。
On Saturday Michael Gove, the environment secretary, prompted angry complaints after joking that being interviewed by the BBC presenter John Humphrys was like entering Mr. Weinstein’s bedroom and hoping “you emerge with your dignity intact.” Mr. Gove issued an unreserved apology. Meanwhile, the former work and pensions secretary, Stephen Crabb, has apologized for “sexual chatter” with a 19-year-old who applied for a job in his office.
周六，环境大臣迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)引来了愤怒的指责，他开玩笑说，接受BBC主播约翰·汉弗里斯(John Humphrys)采访就像进入韦恩斯坦的卧室，还指望“出来时尊严没有受损”。戈夫随后发表了诚恳的道歉。与此同时，前就业养老金大臣史蒂芬·克拉布(Stephen Crabb)为自己同一名来办公室申请工作的19岁人士之间的“涉性闲聊”表示道歉。
The opposition Labour Party has been implicated too. A Labour activist, Bex Bailey, told the BBC that she suffered a serious sexual assault at a party in 2011 and that, when she later asked for advice from a senior staff member, she was advised that formally reporting what had occurred could damage her career prospects.
反对党工党也被卷入其中。工党活动人士拜克斯·贝里(Bex Bailey)告诉BBC，2011年，她在一次派对上遭受了严重性侵，后来她向一名高级工作人员寻求意见，结果被告知，假如正式报告发生的事情可能会损害她的职业生涯前景。
Last week Labour also suspended one of its lawmakers, Jared O’Mara, while it investigates allegations that he made a series of misogynistic and homophobic comments.
上周，工党还暂停了自己的议员贾里德·奥马拉(Jared O'Mara)的职务，并对他发表一系列歧视女性和仇恨同性恋言论的指控展开调查。
Some lawmakers have denied accusations made against them, including Damian Green, one of Mrs. May’s closest allies, who has described allegations of inappropriate behavior toward a female activist as completely false.
一些议员否认了对他们的指责，包括梅最亲密的盟友达米安·格林(Damian Green)，他说，关于他对一位女性活动人士有不当行为的指控纯属子虚乌有。