If someone had told me 10 years ago that I would one day announce in The New York Times how old I was when I lost my virginity, I would have died of embarrassment.
放在10年前，要是有人告诉我有一天我会在《纽约时报》(The New York Times)上将自己失去童贞的年龄公之于众，我一定会尴尬至死。
By the time I was in my 20s, there were only two valid explanations for being a virgin: 1. You were extremely religious, and had taken a vow of chastity until marriage. 2. You were a “loser”: too unattractive or socially incompetent to succeed at the most basic of biological instincts.
在我20多岁的时候，那会儿谁要是到了这个年龄还是处子之身，似乎只有两个理由说得过去：1.这人是个虔诚的宗教狂，发誓要在结婚前保守贞操；2.这人是个废物，严重缺乏吸引力和社交能力，连最基本的生物本能需求都搞不定。
I was not religious, and I knew I wasn’t a “loser,” but I nonetheless felt horribly ashamed of the fact that I wasn’t sexually active.
可我既不是虔诚的教徒，也很清楚自己绝非“屌丝女”，但我仍然为自己寡淡的性事感到无比羞惭。
It wasn’t that I was afraid of sex, or disgusted by it. Like most people I knew, I talked about it near constantly. In conversation, I was cool, flirtatious, ballsy. Yet privately, my sex life was largely nonexistent, and not entirely by my own choosing. In an ideal world, I would have shed my virginity in the first year or two of college, but the right opportunity never seemed to present itself. I wanted to have sex, but I wanted to do it with someone I loved — or at least with someone I liked and trusted enough to expect our relationship to last more than a month or two after we did the deed.
这并不代表我害怕或者厌恶性生活。和我认识的大多数人一样，我隔三差五也会聊到它。跟人聊天的时候，我是个酷女孩，狂放大胆且风情万种；但在私底下，我却几乎没有性生活。事情会是这样也不全是我所愿——在我的理想中，我应该在大一或者大二时初尝性爱滋味，但上天一直没有给我合适的机会。我想要做爱，可我希望对方是我爱的人——至少也得是个我喜欢的人，一个能让我相信他在把我弄上床后至少还愿意继续跟我谈一两个月恋爱的人。
And so I waited, growing increasingly ashamed of my status, yet never quite troubled enough by it to throw in the towel and have sex with someone I wasn’t into.
于是我就等啊等啊，虽然越来越为自己的状况感到难为情，却也不至于因此放宽标准，随便找个没兴趣的人来将就。
To feel shame about one’s sex life is an experience as old as Western civilization. Whether it has been gays forced to bury their sexual desires for fear of being shunned or killed, or pregnant teenagers sent off to “maternity homes” to have their babies away from prying neighbors, sex has long been treated as a measure of our propriety, carefully monitored for even the slightest hint of nonconformity.
自西方文明诞生以来，性似乎总是跟耻辱放在一起。同性恋者不得不将自己的性欲望深埋心底，生怕被人避之唯恐不及甚至遭到杀害；怀孕的少女被送进“留产院(maternity homes)”分娩，好远离邻居的窥探……长期以来，性生活一直充当着衡量一个人“正派体面”与否的标尺，受到严密的监督，容不得出半点差池。
But in recent decades, the standards by which our sexuality is evaluated — and the sources of our sexual shame — have evolved. Sex is no longer just something we are told not to do, or else risk being judged as dirty and depraved. It is also something we must do, or else be declared pathetic, prudish and undesirable.
然而，就在近几十年里，我们评价性活动的标准，以及我们因性活动而羞耻的原因都发生了变化。性爱不再是被谆谆告诫不能碰触的禁果，跟人成就好事再也不怕被扣上肮脏和堕落的罪名，甚至，你要是不做爱反而会被人说成是可怜虫、假正经和讨厌鬼。
It’s not that the old orthodoxies have disappeared completely: We still live in a world that is rife with slut shaming and homophobia. But these standards are now accompanied by a new, more insidious set of ideals and aspirations around sexual frequency, performance and identity.
当然，我不是说过去的那些正统观念业已消失殆尽——我们生活的这个世界上依然充斥着对“荡妇”的羞辱和对同性恋的憎恶。但如今性行为规范中又增添了危害性更加隐蔽的新内容：一系列关于性生活频率、能力和性身份(sexual identity)的完美典范和目标。
These ideals are implicit in the habitual surveys of how often we have sex, quickly transformed through popular culture into dictates of how often we should be having sex (two to three times a week, as any regular reader of women’s magazines will tell you). They are in the portrayal of sex as a perpetually dripping tap that everyone is drinking from, and in the intimation that the sex you’re having probably isn’t interesting enough to satisfy your partner’s needs — or to secure a partner in the first place.
我们常见的关于做爱频率的性行为习惯调查中就隐含着这些理想目标，而且它们很快就藉由通俗文化摇身变成了一种教条（随便找一名女性杂志的忠实读者出来，她都会告诉你：人每周“应该”有两到三次性生活）。当你看到有人将性描述为每个人都饮之不绝的水龙头，当你听见有人暗示你的性生活不够圆满，满足不了你的伴侣的需求——甚至不足以维系你们的感情时，你都会发现这些理想目标的影子。
But the most nonnegotiable part of the new sexual orthodoxy is simply that you should be having sex. If you are in a couple, sex is a measure of the health of your relationship — an unbiased barometer of how much you desire your partner and how much he or she still desires you. If you are single, your sex life is a reflection of your market value — of how attractive and how deeply engaged with life you are. As the founding Cosmopolitan editor Helen Gurley Brown famously said, “My own philosophy is if you’re not having sex, you’re finished.”
然而，在这些新版性爱正统教义中，最坚不可摧牢不可破的一条铁律正是：你应该做爱。若是已经有了爱人，那性生活就是衡量两人关系健康与否的指标，是公正地反映伴侣之间相互渴慕程度的晴雨表；对于单身贵族而言，性生活代表着“身价”——魅力几何，是否在尽情享受生活等等。正如《时尚COSMO》(Cosmopolitan)杂志的创刊主编海伦·格利·布朗(Helen Gurley Brown)的名言所说：“我的生活信条是无性则死。”
If sex is good and joyful, a life without it must be lacking. If it is natural, not to have sex means defying nature. If sex is the ultimate pleasure, not to do everything you can to seek it suggests that you are broken. If you could be having sex but are not, you must be either repressed or undesirable.
如果性爱对人有益又给人愉悦，那么没有性爱的人生想必称不得圆满；如果说性爱是天性使然，那么不做爱显然有悖自然规律；如果性爱是最终极的快感，那么不肯尽其所能地去索取它的人肯定是哪里出毛病了；如果你明明有机会做爱却没有做，那么，要么你深受压抑，要么你实在不招人待见。
This isn’t just a problem for 20-something virgins. It’s a problem for anyone who has ever feared that his or her sex life is something other than what it ought to be. Which is to say, it’s a problem for almost all of us.
这些问题不仅困扰着那些20多岁的处女处男们，还影响着每一个担心自己的性生活不合格的人——也就是说，几乎我们所有人。
As good and joyful as sex can be, most of us go through periods when our sex lives don’t match the script that has been laid out for us. Maybe you want less sex than you used to, and you’re wondering what that means for your relationship. Maybe you’re semi-involuntarily celibate in a world that imagines single life as one long “Sex and the City” or “Entourage” episode. Maybe your sex drive is blazing, but you’re not currently able to find an outlet for it, or your deepest carnal desires are something you were raised to think of as disgusting. Maybe you’ve never understood what the big deal was, and you’d rather hang out with friends or eat a really good slice of pizza.
虽然性爱是如此具有益处和乐趣，我们中的大多数人却都在经历性生活不够尽如人意的时期。也许你不像以往那样渴求性爱，担心这会不会影响到你与伴侣之间的感情；也许你非完全自愿地单着，可世上诸人却都以为单身生活就应该有如超长版的《欲望都市》(“Sex and the City”)或《明星伙伴》(“Entourage”)；也许你的性冲动很强烈，只是目前还找不到一个合适的出口，又或者你从小所受的教育让你觉得这种最根深蒂固的肉体欲望令人作呕；当然，也许你是从来就不觉得做不做爱有什么大不了的，宁愿去跟朋友们消磨时光或是吃块美味的披萨。
Sex will probably always be a subject that affects us deeply. It is too tied up with the way most people connect with and find intimacy with others (not to mention the drive for sexual release, and the reproductive consequences of heterosexual intercourse). But it doesn’t have to be as fraught with emotion — and symbolism — as it is. We shouldn’t be made to feel ashamed of our desire for sex, but we also shouldn’t be shamed for failing to perform it.
很可能，性爱将来也会一如既往地深深影响我们。它与大多数人相互联系并与他人建立起亲密关系的方式密切相关（更不用说释放性欲的需求以及异性间性交对物种繁衍的影响）。不过，像现在这样给性爱加上过多的感情和象征意义却没什么必要。无论是性冲动也好，没有性活动也好，都不应是让我们羞愧的理由。
For me, it was partly the passage of time that helped me to move beyond the embarrassment I felt about my virginity. So did growing up, and moving into a relationship that more closely fit the ideals that had been set out for me by my culture.
说回我自己，随着时间的推移，我逐渐不再因自己仍是处女而难堪。我成长了，成熟了，还开始了一段更符合社会文化模范的恋爱关系，这些都从一定程度上帮助我调整好了自己的心态。
But it was also the realization that even if my particular source of shame was unique to me, the feeling of not being “enough” when it came to sex was common to too many of us, and that one of the best ways to dissolve that anxiety was to share the parts of our stories that make us most uncomfortable.
此外，还有一部分原因是我认识到，纵然我之前会落得惭愧不已不乏我个人的原因，事实上，还有太多人都感觉自己做爱“不够”，而消解这些焦虑的一个最好的途径就是与人分享那些令我们深感困窘的故事。
For the record, I was 26.
郑重声明：我的第一次是在26岁。