I went to Hollywood when I was 23. I had made a low-budget film, won an award at a prestigious festival, scored an agent and made a TV deal all within six months. It was a fairy tale most people will never experience, and I knew, as well as a 23-year-old can know anything, that I was getting a pretty great deal. I bounced from meeting to meeting with the joy of Cinderella at the ball.
我23岁时去了好莱坞。我拍了一部低成本电影，在一个重要电影节上得了一个奖，得到一位经纪人，签了一个电视剧合约——一切都发生在六个月里。这是大部分人永远都体验不到的童话故事，我知道——以一个23岁的人的理解——我得到了个相当好的待遇。我带着灰姑娘在舞会上的喜悦，参加一次又一次的会面。
These meetings, almost always with men, were rife with acts of everyday sexism — the presumption that I must want to make small “intimate” movies, a suggestion that I write a comedy focused on “the way women’s periods sync up and they go crazy for a week,” the insistence that I’d be “really funny paired with a hot girl.” There were dinners that went on too long, work lunches that turned into confessions about the broken state of the film executive’s marriage and the consistent insistence that I must, as my work suggests, be “up for anything in bed.”
那些会几乎总是和男人开的，充满常见的性别歧视，比如认为我应该想拍小型的“情爱”电影；建议我写一部“几个女人月经同步，疯狂了一周”的喜剧；或者坚持认为“如果我和一个辣妹搭配会是非常有趣的组合”。有些晚宴持续了太长时间，还有些工作午餐变成了一位电影制作人关于自己破裂婚姻的自白，他还坚持认为我应该“能接受床上的各种行为”，认为我的作品有那样的暗示。
I took it in stride, unloading the day’s injustices on the couch of my new friend (and now my work partner), Jenni Konner. She told me maddening stories of her own ascent and we plotted a new world for ourselves. We imagined a set run by women, men who wouldn’t dream of overstepping or underpaying, a company where girls stretched as far as the eye could see, the chance to write scripts that changed people’s perceptions of feminine identity. We would tell any man who thought that was an invitation for sex to go eat a shoe. The men we have worked with — like Judd Apatow, Hollywood’s least sleazy guy — have showed us utter respect. The only terrifying producer rage I ever experienced was from a gay man who tried to take back a purse he had bought me. We got to do all that we had dreamed of and more.
我泰然处之，在新朋友詹妮·康纳（Jenni Konner，她现在是我的工作伙伴）的沙发上排解一天遭遇的不公。她跟我讲述了她自己事业上升期的疯狂故事，我们为自己筹划了一个新世界。我们想像着：一个片场由女性掌管；男人们不会妄想越权或少给工资；一个公司可以允许女性自由发挥；我们有机会写一些剧本，改变人们对女性身分的观念。我们会让任何认为那是性勾引的男人去见鬼。跟我们一起工作的男人，比如好莱坞最不龌龊的男人贾德·阿帕托(Judd Apatow)，对我们表现出完全的尊重。我唯一经历过的可怕的制片人暴怒来自一名男同性恋，他气得想要拿回送给我的一个手包。我们实现了我们梦想过的一切，甚至更多。
This past week, reports that Harvey Weinstein had sexually harassed women for years came to light, making it crystal clear that not every woman in Hollywood has had the chance to walk our path. Abuse, threats and coercion have been the norm for so many women trying to do business or make art. Mr. Weinstein may be the most powerful man in Hollywood to be revealed as a predator, but he’s certainly not the only one who has been allowed to run wild. His behavior, silently co-signed for decades by employees and collaborators, is a microcosm of what has been happening in Hollywood since always and of what workplace harassment looks like for women everywhere.
在过去一周里，关于哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)多年来性骚扰多名女性的报道不断涌现，很显然，不是好莱坞的每一位女性都有机会走上我们的道路。对很多试图做生意或做艺术的女性来说，遭受凌辱、威胁和胁迫是家常便饭。韦恩斯坦可能是好莱坞被揭露的最有权力的男性猎艳者，但他肯定不是唯一一个被允许恣意妄为的男性。数十年来，他的行为被员工和合作者共同默许——这是好莱坞长期状况的缩影，也是世界各地的女性在工作场合遭到骚扰的缩影。
The use of power to possess and silence women is as likely to occur in a fast-food restaurant as it is on a movie set, and Hollywood has yet another chance to make a noisy statement about what we should and should not condone as a society. A liberal-leaning industry, we have been quick to condemn Bill O’Reilly, Roger Ailes and, yes, the president. We do not accept sexual abuse as “locker room talk.” So why the deafening silence, particularly from the industry’s men, when one of our own is outed as having a nasty taste for humiliating and traumatizing women?
利用权力占有女性并迫使她们保持沉默——在电影片场出现这种事的几率，跟在快餐店一样高，如今好莱坞再次面对这样一个机会，对我们作为一个社会应该以及不应该容忍什么，做出大声的宣讲。作为一个具有自由主义倾向的产业，我们迅速谴责比尔·奥莱利(Bill O'Reilly)、罗杰·艾尔斯(Roger Ailes)，以及，没错，总统。我们不能接受说性侮辱是“更衣室谈话”。所以，为什么当我们中的一个人被揭露出具有羞辱和伤害女性的下流嗜好时，人们会保持死寂般的沉默，尤其是这个行业的男性？
This isn’t anything new. Woody Allen, whose daughter has said, over his denials, that he sexually abused her as a child, is still getting the hottest young stars to work with him. Roman Polanski, whose victims continue to come forward, is considered a visionary worth fighting for, and I recently had a male star tell me that working with him would “obviously be the ultimate.” (In fact, Mr. Weinstein himself gathered Hollywood to sign a letter asking that Mr. Polanksi’s charges be dropped and he be allowed to return to America.)
这不是新鲜事。伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)的女儿说小时候曾遭到他性侵——他对此予以否认——但正当红的年轻明星们依然在跟他合作。罗曼·波兰斯基(Roman Polanski)的受害者还在不断出现，但他依然是大家趋之若鹜的大师，前不久有一个男明星对我说，与波兰斯基合作“当然是终极目标”（实际上，韦恩斯坦本人曾在好莱坞征集联名信，请求撤销对波兰斯基的起诉，准许他返回美国）。
Beyond these bold-name cases, ignoring bad behavior remains the signature move of men in Hollywood. I hear stories from victims themselves at a rate that feels positively dystopian. Last year, I was sexually harassed by a director of a show, not my own, and not on a set, and the response by the powers that be was to defend him, question the women ferociously and take ages before letting him go from the network. It was a move based less on his skill than on some ancient loyalty. It’s that kind of behavior that normalizes this abuse of power.
除了这些著名案例，无视恶劣行为依然是好莱坞男性的典型做法。我经常亲耳听到受害者讲述自己的故事，此类事件的发生频率让我感到幻灭。去年，我遭到一个电视剧导演性骚扰，那不是我自己的剧，也不是在片场，权势人物们的反应是为他辩护，激烈地质疑女性，过了很长时间才让他离开电视网。这些举动不是基于他的技能，而更多地是基于某种古老的忠诚。正是这种行为让滥用权力成为常态。
The accusations against Mr. Weinstein, so clearly outlined and so completely horrifying, seemed impossible to dispute or ignore. I naïvely expected that the reticence that Hollywood’s powerful men have shown, the collective refusal to take sides in he-said she-said narratives, would be crushed in the face of this open secret being revealed definitively. The reason I am zeroing in on the men is that they have the least to lose and the most power to shift the narrative, and are probably not dealing with the same level of collective and personal trauma around these allegations. But here we are, days later, waiting for Mr. Weinstein’s most powerful collaborators to say something. Anything. It wouldn’t be just a gift to the women he has victimized, but a message to the women who are watching our industry closely. They need a signal that we do not approve of the abuse of power and hatred of women that is the driving force behind this kind of behavior.
针对韦恩斯坦的指控脉络十分清晰，也令人震惊，似乎不可能狡辩或无视。我曾天真地期望，在这个公开的秘密被大白天下时，好莱坞权势男性曾经的缄默，也就是集体拒绝表明立场，会被粉碎。我把注意力集中在男性身上是因为，他们是最不会失去任何东西的群体，也是最有权力改变情况的群体，他们很可能不会像这些指控的受害者那样，遭受那种程度的集体或个人伤害。但数日之后，我们还在等待韦恩斯坦最强大的合作者们表态。哪怕是对受害者的一丁点支持。它将不只是送给那些受害女性的礼物，也将是发给那些密切关注我们行业的女性的一个信息。她们需要这样一个信号来确定，我们不赞同滥用权力、憎恨女性——这种观念是这种行为的幕后推手。
In the fall of 2016, I performed at a benefit for Hillary Clinton organized by the Weinstein Company. I had heard the rumors. I felt that going onstage under his aegis was a betrayal of my own values. But I wanted so desperately to support my candidate that I made a calculation. We’ve all made calculations, and saying we’re sorry about those calculations is not an act of cowardice. It’s an essential change of position that could shift the way we do business and the way women regard their own position in the workplace. I’m sorry I shook the hand of someone I knew was not a friend to women in my industry.
2016年秋，我在韦恩斯坦影业公司(Weinstein Company)为希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)组织的一场义演上表演。之前我听到过一些传言。我觉得，在他赞助的舞台上表演是对自己价值观的背叛。但我特别想支持这位候选人，所以我妥协了。我们都妥协过，说出我们为那些妥协感到遗憾不是懦弱的行为。这是一种根本的立场改变，它可以改变我们行为处事的方式，以及女性在工作场合对自己地位的看法。我很遗憾，自己明知这个人在我们行业的女性眼中不是好人，还跟他握了手。
Men of Hollywood, what are you sorry for? What will you refuse to accept anymore? What will you say to fill the void and change the standard? Are you afraid because you heard the whisperings but accepted a role or a position on a host committee or a glass of Champagne and a pat on the back? Are you embarrassed because you’re in a photo with him smiling broadly or because he gave money to your organization or introduced you to your girlfriend or earned you your Oscar nomination? Are you operating under the assumption that this is very sad but that it is not your problem?
好莱坞的男人们，你们为哪些行为感到遗憾？有什么是你们拒绝接受的？你们会说出什么，来填补空白、改变标准？你们听到过传言，但还是接受了一个角色，或主办委员会里的一个位置，或一杯香槟，或一声鼓励——你们为这些感到担心吗？你曾和他微笑合影，或者你的公司曾得到他的资助，或者你的女朋友是他介绍的，或者他曾让你获得了奥斯卡提名——你为这些感到羞愧吗？你是否认为这件事让人很难过但不是你的问题？
It is, unfortunately, all of our problems. It is the problem of the agents who sent their clients to meet with a man they knew was a predator, who shuffled them onto his sets. It is the problem of producers who turned a blind eye. It is the problem of actors who heard whispers but walked back to their trailers to play fantasy football. It is the problem of industry media that would not report their findings because they feared losing their place in Harvey Weinstein’s good graces. It is not, as some have suggested, the problem of the women who are afraid to come forward with their own stories or who settled financially with Mr. Weinstein.
不幸的是，它是我们的问题。它是经纪人的问题，他们让客户去见那个他们知道是猎艳者的男人，他们把客户推到他的片场上。它是制片人们的问题，他们坐视不管。它是男演员们的问题，他们听到了传言，但还是回到自己的房车里玩幻想橄榄球游戏。它是行业媒体的问题，他们没有报道自己发现的问题，因为他们担心失去自己借助哈维·韦恩斯坦的关系获得的位置。或者正如有些人认为的那样，它不是那些不敢站出来讲述自己的故事，或者与韦恩斯坦达成赔偿和解的女人的问题。
Hollywood’s silence, particularly that of men who worked closely with Mr. Weinstein, only reinforces the culture that keeps women from speaking. When we stay silent, we gag the victims. When we stay silent, we condone behavior that none of us could possibly believe is O.K. (unless you do). When we stay silent, we stay on the same path that led us here. Making noise is making change. Making change is why we tell stories. We don’t want to have to tell stories like this one again and again. Speak louder.
好莱坞的沉默，尤其是那些与韦恩斯坦密切合作的男人们的沉默，只会强化让女性缄口的文化。我们保持沉默，就是在钳制受害者。我们保持沉默，就是在容忍我们都不可能接受的行为（除非你接受）。我们保持沉默，就还停留在老路上。发出声音就是做出改变。做出改变是我们讲故事的原因。我们不想一次又一次地讲述类似的故事。请大声疾呼。