The first letter was hand-delivered, written on a store-bought card that was as goofy as it was flirtatious. The sender, who signed it as Rick, apologized that he was not around when its recipient, Jane, stopped by. He invited her to come back for poetry and wine.
第一封信是被亲手递交的，写在一张从商店里买来的傻乎乎又轻浮的卡片上。写信人署名为瑞克(Rick)，道歉说当收信人简(Jane)顺路拜访时他不在。
The note seemed innocent enough, but Jane Marion was 16 when she received it. Rick, whose full name was Frederic Lyman, was 11 years her senior, and her teacher at Phillips Academy, a prestigious boarding school in Andover, Massachusetts.
这张便笺似乎足够纯洁无邪，但简·马里昂(Jane Marion)收到它时只有16岁。而全名为弗雷德里克·莱曼(Frederic Lyman)的瑞克比她年长11岁，是她在马萨诸塞州安多弗知名寄宿学校菲利普斯学院(Phillips Academy)的老师。
It was the start of a correspondence that began with cheerful notes on graded papers, then progressed to Lyman’s tempting her with flattery and romance. When she resisted, he offered praise, or scolded her or made a carefully calibrated threat. When she finally drew away, he was enraged.
通信由此展开，先是批改过的考卷上欢快的批注，随后发展为莱曼用恭维和浪漫诱惑他。当她表现出抗拒时，他会奉上赞许之词，或者斥责她，或者发出经过精心斟酌的威胁。当她最终抽身而退时，他被激怒了。
The letters came to light as a growing number of elite private schools release in-depth reports about the sexual abuse of students by faculty members, much of it kept quiet for decades as the schools sought to guard their reputations. In just the last six weeks, Choate Rosemary Hall, in Connecticut; St. Paul’s School, in New Hampshire; and Emma Willard, an all-girls school near Albany, New York, have made such investigations public.
在越来越多精英私立学校发布关于教职员工性侵学生的深度报告之际，上述信函被曝光——此前数十年间，为了保全自己的名声，这些学校对很多这样的事都秘而不宣。仅仅六周时间里，公布此类调查信息的就有康涅狄格州的乔特罗斯玛丽中学(Choate Rosemary Hall)、新罕布什尔州的圣保罗中学(St. Paul's School)以及纽约州奥尔巴尼附近的艾玛威拉德女子中学(Emma Willard)。
At those schools, and many others, teachers who were forced out for sexual misconduct moved on to teach elsewhere, sometimes with the help of the administrators who made them leave. The schools almost never reported suspected abuse to the authorities.
一些因性失德被迫离开上述学校以及其他很多学校的老师，有时是在让他们离开的校方高层帮助下，又去了别的地方执教。这些学校几乎从来不向当局报告涉嫌性侵之举。
Such was the case with Lyman, who is one of 12 men named in the Choate report. He taught at the school from 1980 to 1982, and investigators say that during that time Lyman groomed and then sexually abused two young women. He served students tea spiked with rum and took them out for dinner and drinks. He wrote romantic letters. He had sex with them in his car and his apartment. He gave at least one of them herpes. He went on to stalk one of the girls, and left her with a black eye. The entanglements lasted for years.
作为乔特罗斯玛丽中学的调查报告提到的12个人之一，莱曼的情况便是如此，他曾于1980至1982年间在这所学校执教，调查人员说其间莱曼教过两名年轻女性，继而性侵了她们。他曾给两名学生喝加了朗姆酒的茶，还带她们出去吃晚餐、喝酒。他给她们写浪漫的信件。他在自己的车里和公寓里和她们发生性关系。他让其中至少一人染上了疱疹。他后来又跟踪其中一个女孩，并把她打得眼眶乌青。纠缠持续了数年。
Lyman was forced to leave Choate, but was given a recommendation and got another teaching job at a private school in Colorado, where he lasted two years. He appears to have left teaching in 1984.
莱曼被迫离开了乔特罗斯玛丽中学，但拿到了推荐信，并在科罗拉多州的一所私立学校另谋了一份教职，总共教了两年。他似乎从1984年开始就没再教书了。
But before he arrived at Choate, he was a teacher at Andover. It was there, during the summer session in 1979, that he was Marion’s English teacher.
但前往乔特罗斯玛丽中学之前，他曾在安多佛任教，1979年的暑期课程期间，他是马里昂的英语老师。
Marion shared the series of letters — five in all, written in 1979 and 1980 — with The New York Times. They provide a rare window into the mind of a man who would later be accused of being a predator. Their relationship never became physical, but the letters show Lyman coaxing her to cross that line.
马里昂与《纽约时报》分享了这一系列信函——共有五封，写于1979至1980年间。这让人们有了一个难得的机会，可以看到一个后来被控为捕食者的男人的内心世界。两人从未发生肉体关系，但信函显示莱曼曾劝诱她跨过那道界限。
“It has haunted me all these years,” Marion said of the experience. “I see pictures of this young person that I was, and I wish I could tell her, ‘Run the other way!'”
“这些年来我一直很受困扰，”马里昂谈及这段经历时说。“我看着照片中那个年轻的自己，真希望可以对她说，‘转头快跑！’”
Lyman was given the opportunity to review the letters, and in response, he provided a statement through his lawyer:
莱曼获得了重读这些信件的机会。作为回应，他通过律师发了一份声明：
“In re-reading these letters nearly 40 years after writing them, I see the ramblings of a lovesick young man who was 27 years old at the time,” he wrote in an email. “However, my lapse in judgment was inexcusable. I breached the trust and overstepped the boundaries between student and teacher. Due to my own immaturity, I considered my students to be peers and friends, which was a mistake that I will regret for the rest of my life. I am deeply sorry for any pain or discomfort my actions may have caused.”
“在近40年后重读这些信，我看到是一个害相思病的23岁小伙子说的一些不着边际的话，”他在一封邮件中写道。“但我在判断上的失误是不可饶恕的。我辜负了信任，逾越了学生和教师之间的界限。因为我不够成熟，把学生看成自己的同辈和朋友，这是一个错误，我余生里都会为之懊悔。我为我的行为造成了任何痛苦和不适而深感抱歉。”
Marion said that exchanges between them began when she bought him a get-well card after he had missed class because he was feeling ill. He then began writing personal notes on her academic papers. He would give her a grade, critique her work and then, in a different colored pen, write something more familiar, asking her to play tennis, or saying he would help her break curfew.
马里昂表示，他们之间的通信是从她给他买了一张慰问卡之后开始，之前他因为生病而没有去上课。然后他开始在她的试卷上写一些私人化的评语。他会给她打分，批评她的作业，还用不同颜色的笔写一些更亲密的话，比如邀她去打网球，或者说他会帮她违反宵禁。
She remembered talking to him about James Taylor and Robert Frost, listening to music in his apartment. They went off campus to the library together one day, alone. He was handsome and he was her teacher, and she was flattered. This was Marion’s first experience with what seemed like romance, she said, and she thought she was in love with him. But she was also frightened, and she kept a wall up between them.
她记得曾经跟他谈论詹姆斯·泰勒(James Taylor)和罗伯特·弗罗斯特(Robert Frost)，在他的公寓里听音乐。有一天，他们离开校园，一起去了图书馆。他相貌堂堂，又是她的老师，她感到受宠若惊。马里昂说这是她第一次有类似浪漫的感受，她以为自己爱上了他。但她也感到害怕，并一直在两人之间保持着距离。
“There was this fantasy person, who I didn’t really want to have as my boyfriend, but I had a romantic notion of him,” she said. “And then there was this real man making these moves,” she added. “I think when I got too close to the flame, I would draw back.”
“有这么一个幻想中的人，我并不是真的想让他当我的男朋友，但我对他有一种浪漫的想象，”她说。“然后又有这么一个真实的人在采取这些行动，”她接着讲道。“我想要是离火太近，我会跑开。”
It appears in the letters that he noticed.
这种态度在信中表现了出来，他注意到了。
The next year, during the summer of 1980, Marion attended summer session at Harvard while Lyman was again teaching at Andover. Another woman approached The New York Times last month to say that during that summer, when she was a student, Lyman had tried to groom her, as well. They held hands and walked with their arms around one another. He would sing to her a James Taylor song. On a group camping trip, she woke in the middle of the night to find Lyman kissing and stroking her arms.
第二年，也就是1980年夏，马里昂到哈佛大学上暑期课程，莱曼又一次在安多弗教课。上个月，另一位女士主动联系了《纽约时报》，表示在那个夏天，她还是学生的时候，莱曼也曾引诱她。他们会手拉手，或者相拥着走路。他会给她唱詹姆斯·泰勒的歌。在一次集体露营旅行时，她半夜醒来，发现莱曼在亲吻和抚摸她的手臂。
That same summer, he was writing letters to Marion and speaking to her by phone, trying to persuade her to meet him in Boston.
同一个夏天，他也在给马里昂写信，给她打电话，试图劝她在波士顿与他见面。
Dearest Jane,” began a letter he sent in early July. “I miss you so much.”
“亲爱的简，”他在7月初发出的一封信的开头这样写道。“我非常想念你。”
Lyman continued: “So you’re a Harvard girl? Would you accept a night or two out on the town? Or an adventure out to Ashby? I’d love to see you. Please call collect any night.” He signed off: “I’m so glad you’re in Boston. Love, Rick.”
莱曼接着写道：“所以你现在是个哈佛女孩了？你愿意抽出一晚或两晚到城里吗？或者去阿什比游玩？我很想见你。哪个晚上都行，给我打对方付费电话。”他在结尾写道。“真高兴你也在波士顿。爱你的，里克。”
Tracy M. Sweet, a spokeswoman for Andover, said the school had referred reports about Lyman to an outside firm to investigate. The school announced last year that five former faculty members, three of whom it named, had abused students in the 1970s and 1980s. Lyman was not among them.
安多弗的发言人翠西·M·斯威特(Tracy M. Sweet)表示，学校已将有关莱曼的报道转交给一家外部公司调查。这所学校去年宣布，有五名前教职员工——其中三人指明了身份——在上世纪70年代和80年代曾做出侵犯学生的行为。莱曼不在其中。