Two decades after tens of thousands — some say hundreds of thousands — of Chinese contracted the HIV virus from contaminated blood products in an epidemic that raged in the 1990s, the major transmission route today is sex, according to Chinese media reports, citing figures from the National Health and Family Planning Commission. Gay sex was a significant factor, doctors said.
上世纪90年代，数万——有人说数十万——中国人因为体内输入了被污染的血液制品而感染了艾滋病，酿成了一场重大的艾滋病疫情。20年后，中国多家媒体援引国家卫生计生委的数据称，性传播是当前艾滋病传播的主要途径。医疗工作者透露，同性传播是一个重要因素。
Sexual transmission now accounts for 87.1 percent of all new infections, The Beijing News reported Tuesday. 70,000 new cases were identified in the first nine months of this year, according to multiple media reports.
《新京报》周二报道，在新的艾滋病毒感染者中，经性途径传播的比例已达到87.1%。多家媒体报道，今年1月至9月，中国新增艾滋病毒感染者7万例。
And a new at-risk group is growing fast: young people aged between 15-24, according to Wang Ning, an AIDS specialist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
此外，中国疾病预防控制中心的艾滋病防病专家汪宁说，一个新的高危群体正在迅速增长，那就是15岁至24岁的年轻人。
“Before, large numbers of infected people were from not too developed regions,” Dr. Wang told The Beijing News. Key sources of infection were blood products and intravenous drug use. “Now it has entered cities, and the universities where the so-called elite groups are. Even though this special group has the information to prevent AIDS, when they indulge in high-risk behavior they don’t use their knowledge to protect themselves,” he said.
汪宁告诉《新京报》，“之前大量的感染者来自于经济不太发达的地区。主要的感染来源是输血和静脉注射吸毒。”他说，“现在正在进入到城市，而且已经进入到大学这个所谓的精英人群中。这个特殊人群虽然有这些防艾知识，但在发生高危行为时，并没有用这种知识控制自己的行为。”
The number of infected youth appears still to be low, but is rising: Of 74,517 new cases of HIV identified in 2011, 1,074 were aged between 15 to 24, Dr. Wang said.
汪宁说，感染艾滋病毒的年轻人比例看起来仍然不算高，但正在不断上升：2011年新发现的74517名艾滋病毒感染者中，有1074人是15岁至24岁的青年学生。
In 2012 there were 1,387 infections among young people out of 82,434 new cases, a 29 percent increase over the previous year.
2012年新增的82434名艾滋病毒感染者中，15岁至24岁青年学生为1387名，较上一年增长了29%。
“The kinds of people suffering from AIDS have grown more varied and complex,” said Dr. Wang. “The direction of the development of the disease is from high-risk groups to groups that have traditionally been understood as low-risk groups,” he said, adding that university students now were “an at-risk group.”
汪宁说，“艾滋病具有感染人群多样化、流行形势复杂化的特点。我国艾滋病的发展趋势正在从高危人群转向传统意识中的低危人群。”他补充说，大学生正在成为“受威胁的人群之一”。
Linked to the rise is gay sex, experts said. Homosexuality is largely taboo in Chinese society, as is too-open discussion of any kind of sex.
一些专家说，同性性行为与上述增长有关。在中国社会，同性恋基本上是个禁忌，不仅如此，过于公开地讨论任何类型的性行为都不被接受。
“The proportion of young HIV/AIDS sufferers almost doubled between 2008 and 2012, and gay sex is considered a major reason for the increase,” Shang Hong, the director of a HIV/AIDS laboratory under the National Health and Family Planning Commission, told Xinhua.
国家卫生计生委艾滋病重点实验室主任尚红告诉新华社，“年轻人感染艾滋病的比例在2008年到2012年几乎翻了一番，大多数都是经男男性感染途径。”
On its Web site, the China office of the World Health Orgnization said counseling for men who have sex with men, or MSM, was “critical.”
世界卫生组织驻华代表处的网站上说，对男男性行为提供咨询是一个“重点”。
“Recently, HIV infection rates have increased among MSM populations in large cities due to inconsistent condom use,” it said.
文中说道，“最近，由于无法持续使用安全套，大城市中男男性行为人群艾滋病新发感染出现上涨。”
Making it harder to combat the spread of HIV via sex among the young is the lack of sex education in Chinese schools. Parents often don’t step in to help, experts say. Where sex education does exist, it is often restricted by gender; girls are taught about girls, and boys about boys, China Radio International reported.
由于中国学生普遍缺乏性教育，防止艾滋病毒在年轻人中传播变得更加困难。中国国际广播电台报道，专家表示，家长通常也不会对子女进行性教育。有些地方虽然存在性教育，但是受到性别的限制，女生只教女生的事，男生只教男生的事。
Overall, China had 434,000 people with HIV/AIDS as of the end of September, Xinhua said. On their Web site, the WHO says there were an estimated 780,000 people living with HIV in China, in 2011, the latest year for which it gave a figure.
新华社报道，截至2013年9月底，中国全国共报告现存活艾滋病毒感染者和艾滋病患者约43.4万例。世卫组织在网站上说，截至2011年，中国存活艾滋病毒感染者和患者有78万名，这是该机构目前提供的最新数据。
China marked Dec. 1, World AIDS Day, with the country’s President, Xi Jinping, issuing a “written instruction” on AIDS work for “Party and government organs at all levels to step up the fight against HIV/AIDS,” Xinhua reported.
新华社报道，在12月1日世界艾滋病日，中国国家主席习近平发表了对艾滋病防治工作的指示，要求各级党委和政府部门“切实把艾滋病防治工作抓紧抓好”。
Premier Li Keqiang recently “highlighted the necessity for social organizations and volunteers to contribute to the fight against AIDS in a letter to medical workers and patients in a hospital in Beijing,” www.womenofchina.cn, a media outlet of the All-China Women’s Federation, reported.
中国全国妇联下属的媒体中国妇女网报道，中国总理李克强最近在写给北京一家医院医务人员和病人的信中，强调了社会组织和志愿者对防治艾滋病工作的重要性。
Despite that, days before World AIDS Day, officials reportedly harassed several independent campaigners against AIDS, preventing them from traveling overseas or meeting people at home, including Yuan Wenli, a member of the Women’s Network Against HIV/AIDS in China, and Chen Bingzhong, a retired health official who researches “AIDS villages” in Henan province.
尽管如此，在世界艾滋病日的几天前，据报道，中国官员骚扰了几名独立防艾人士，阻止他们出国或在家会客，这其中包括“女性抗艾网络-中国”的成员袁文莉，以及研究河南艾滋病村的卫生部退休官员陈秉中。
Henan was the epicenter of infections in the 1990s that resulted from a “plasma economy,” where blood-dealers bought blood from poor farmers without testing for HIV, pooled it and often gave them back the plasma, leading to fast-spreading infections. Infected blood and blood products then entered the hospital system. The business was conducted either illegally or at the encouragement of local officials.
河南是上世纪90年代“血浆经济”引发的艾滋病疫情的中心。血贩子不检测艾滋病毒，就从贫穷的农民那里购买血液，并常常把汇集起来的血液回输到农民的体内，导致艾滋病迅速传播。受污染的血浆和血液制品随后进入了医院系统。这些交易要么是非法开展的，要么得到了当地官员的支持。
From 1998 until 2004, Li Keqiang was a senior Communist Party official in Henan. No officials have been held accountable for the scandal. 
李克强曾在1998年到2004年间，在河南担任中共高级官员。目前尚无任何官员因为该丑闻被追究责任。