What powerful political woman is mocked for her clothes, is the target of pictures on Twitter depicting her as haggard and is routinely called a witch and a bitch?
哪位有权势的政坛女性会被人嘲笑其衣着，会被人在Twitter上用图片展示其枯槁憔悴，会被人常常以女巫和贱人相称？
If you guessed Hillary Clinton, you’re right.
如果你猜是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，那么你回答正确。
But if you guessed Kellyanne Conway, you’re right, too.
但如果你的答案是凯莉安·康维(Kellyanne Conway)，那么你也没说错。
Misogyny, it seems, remains a bipartisan exercise. Whatever legitimate criticisms can be leveled at each woman, it is striking how often that anger is expressed using the same sexist themes, from women as well as men.
歧视女性似乎仍然是一种两党均会出现的问题。世人可以对每名女性进行任何正当的批评，但令人吃惊的是，男性和女性都常常利用同样的带有性别歧视色彩的话题来表达愤怒。
Clinton “repeats her tacky outfits,” one Twitter critic sniped. The Inauguration Day outfit of Conway, a counselor to President Donald Trump, looked like “a night terror of an android majorette.”
克林顿“翻来覆去地把不入流的衣服穿上身，”Twitter上的一名批评者冷言冷语道。而唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统的顾问康维在总统就职日那天穿的衣服，看上去就像“一个恶梦中的机器人女军乐队队长”。
Clinton’s hair has drawn relentless derision; one Twitter user recently asked: “Why does Kellyanne Conway always look like she’s still drunk & wearing make up from last night’s bender?”
克林顿的头发受到了无情的嘲笑；一名Twitter用户最近表示：“为什么凯莉安·康维看上去永远是一副宿醉未醒&脸上还挂着前一晚寻欢作乐时的妆容的样子？”
And both women have been repeatedly compared to witches from the Wizard of Oz, most recently in pictures shared on Twitter tying Conway to the witch killed under Dorothy’s house.
人们还反复把两人比作《绿野仙踪》(Wizard of Oz)里的女巫——最近，Twitter用户分享的一些图片，把康维和死在桃乐丝(Dorothy)的房子下的女巫联系了起来。
The two women are at opposite ideological poles, but they stir up the same lingering cultural discomfort with ambitious, assertive women.
这两名女性在意识形态上处于相反的两极，但她们都激起了世人面对雄心勃勃的强势女性时那种挥之不去的文化不适感。
“These sexist memes are not the purview of one party,” said Karen Finney, a senior adviser to the Clinton campaign. “We fear strong women and women with power. These attacks are meant to delegitimize that power.”
“这些带有性别歧视色彩的米姆所牵涉的不只是哪一方，”克林顿竞选团队的高级顾问卡伦·芬尼(Karen Finney)说。“我们害怕强悍的女人和有权力的女人。这些攻击旨在让那种权力失去合法性。”
Conway has drawn scorn, and been disinvited from some news programs, for her references to a Bowling Green massacre that never took place and her defense of claims about the size of the crowd at Trump’s inauguration as “alternative facts.” Yet some of the criticisms have taken on a distinctly sexualized tone.
康维曾拿一场从未发生过的鲍林格林大屠杀(Bowling Green massacre)说事，还曾为一些与特朗普就职典礼观礼人数有关的说法辩护，称之为“另一种事实”，她因此受到了蔑视，有的新闻节目还取消了对她的邀请。但某些批评带有明显的性别化色彩。
Witness the furor over her sitting on her knees on a couch in the Oval Office during a reception for presidents of historically black colleges. While she drew fire for disrespect, some of the criticisms included digs about her spreading her legs and raunchy allusions to oral sex, Monica Lewinsky and Bill Clinton. Rep. Cedric Richmond, D-La., told a now-notorious joke that hers was a “familiar” position in the Oval Office of the 1990s, drawing a rebuke from none other than Chelsea Clinton. (Richmond apologized Sunday evening.)
看看她参加总统与传统黑人学院负责人的见面会时，因为跪坐在椭圆形办公室的沙发上而引发的风波吧。这种失礼让她成了靶子，但其中一些批评涉及她那分开的双腿，以及关于口交、莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的粗俗暗示。路易斯安那州民主党众议员锡德里克·里士满(Cedric Richmond)讲了一个现在已是臭名昭著的笑话——说她的姿势令人有“似曾相识”之感，仿佛回到1990年代的椭圆形办公——并因此遭到切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)的指责。（里士满于周日傍晚道了歉。）
A Saturday Night Live skit riffed on Conway as a “Fatal Attraction” stalker, breaking into the CNN correspondent Jake Tapper’s house to seduce him into having her on his show.
《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的一个小品拿康维开涮，让其化身为《致命吸引力》(Fatal Attraction)里的跟踪狂，闯进CNN记者杰克·塔珀(Jake Tapper)的房子，诱使塔珀邀她上节目。
“There seems to be great resentment of both as power-hungry and wanting to control men,” said Marjorie J. Spruill, the author of “Divided We Stand: The Battle Over Women’s Rights and Family Values That Polarized American Politics.” “Whereas Hillary is called castrating or shrewish, Conway is often called a slut. The implication is that she is using femininity to control men.”
“两人似乎都因渴望权力、想要控制男人而招致反感，”《我们对立着：让美国政治出现两极分化的女性权利和家庭价值观引发的争论》(Divided We Stand: The Battle Over Women’s Rights and Family Values That Polarized American Politics)一书的作者玛乔丽·J·斯普鲁伊尔(Marjorie J. Spruill)说。“希拉里被称为阉割者或泼妇，康维则被称为荡妇。意思是说她利用女性特质控制男人。”
Spruill noted that Conway in fact had leaned back to take pictures as a favor to the participants, but that some critics had cast the pose as a sexual come-on.
斯普鲁伊尔指出，事实上，康维只是好心地往后靠，给与会者拍照，但一些批评者将其姿势解读为性邀约。
Conway suggested in an interview with The Daily Caller that there would have been more outrage at the comments if she had been a liberal woman, adding, “And it is not just if I were a liberal woman, but if I were a pro-abortion rights one.” Conway did not respond to a message left with her assistant requesting comment for this article.
康维接受《每日通话》(The Daily Caller)采访时表示，如果她是一名自由派女士，这类说法可能会激起更多愤怒，并补充道：“不是说我仅仅身为自由派女士，而是假如我是一名支持堕胎权的女士。”记者通过康维的助理给其留言，请其就本文置评，但康维未作回复。
Still, Conway has spirited defenders on the right on social media who say she should be championed as an example of a groundbreaking woman in politics instead of mocked in sexist terms, and some liberal women in Facebook comments chided others for sexism. “Ladies & Gents, I disagree with her as much as anyone,” wrote someone identified as Melissa Mae. “It would be nice to see comments sticking to valid points instead of ALWAYS going after women on the basis of ‘looks.'”
不过，社交媒体上也有一些激烈捍卫康维的右翼人士，他们说，她应该被人当成具有开创性的政坛女性的范本加以保卫，而不是被人用带有性别歧视色彩的言辞加以嘲弄；某些自由派女性也在Facebook上指责其他一些人有性别歧视倾向。“女士们、先生们，我像你们大家一样，与她志不同道不合，”一个自称是梅利莎·梅(Melissa Mae)的人写道。“很希望看到坚持正当观点的言论，而非总是看到基于外表攻击女性的言辞。”
Mirya R. Holman, an assistant professor of political science at Tulane University who studies gender and politics, said, “This does mimic what conservative women have said in the past: ‘You liberals think you’re so enlightened but we still get people saying vile things about us.'”
杜兰大学(Tulane University)研究性别与政治问题的政治学助理教授米里亚·R·霍尔曼(Mirya R. Holman)说，“这的确酷似保守派女性以前说过的话：你们自由派认为自己十分开明，但一些人还是会把毒辣的言辞甩向我们。”
“To me, the 2016 election was hopefully an opportunity to be reminded that we’re not in some kind of postgender society,” Holman said. “There’s a smaller set of acceptable behaviors for women.”
“我认为，2016年大选提供了一个很好的契机，让我们意识到我们并非生活在某种后性别社会，”霍尔曼说。“对女性来说，可接受行为的范畴更小一些。”
Finney, a longtime Clinton aide, has watched those issues play out for more than 20 years in public life as Clinton served as a stand-in for debates about women’s roles. She said she and conservative women would sit in green rooms awaiting television appearances and trade stories about how they were attacked.
长期给克林顿当助手的芬尼，在20余年里目睹这类议题成为公共生活的一部分——其间，克林顿在关于女性角色的讨论中充当了代表性人物。芬尼说她和保守派女性坐在休息室内等待上电视的时候，会彼此交换关于如何遭受攻击的信息。
“There is this sense: ‘Are you kidding me?'” she said. “'Are we going back to this?’ Maybe we have to go back to go forward.”
“会有这样的感觉：你在开玩笑吗？”她说。“我们后退到这种程度了吗？或许我们为了前进必须后退。”