IT’S easy to see how women benefit from equality — more leadership positions, better pay at work and more support at home. Men may fear that as women do better, they will do worse. But the surprising truth is that equality is good for men, too.
人们很容易看到性别平等对女性的好处——更多的领导职务，更好的待遇，在工作和家庭中获得更多的支持。男人可能会担心，随着女性地位越来越高，他们的地位会降低。但令人惊讶的是，在事实上，性别平等对于男性也是好事。
If men want to make their work teams successful, one of the best steps they can take is to bring on more women. This fall, the Internet sensation Alibaba went public after achieving years of extraordinary growth as China’s largest e-commerce company. The founder, Jack Ma, explained that “one of the secret sauces for Alibaba’s success is that we have a lot of women.” Women hold 47 percent of all jobs at Alibaba and 33 percent of senior positions.
如果男性想让工作团队获得成功，一个最佳措施就是招进更多女性。去年秋天，互联网巨头、中国最大的电子商务公司阿里巴巴在中国实现多年超常增长后上市了。其创始人马云表示，“阿里巴巴的成功秘诀之一，就是公司里有很多女性。”在该公司，女性占据了47%的工作岗位，33%的高级职位。
Research backs him up. Studies reveal that women bring new knowledge, skills and networks to the table, take fewer unnecessary risks, and are more inclined to contribute in ways that make their teams and organizations better. Successful venture-backed start-ups have more than double the median proportion of female executives of failed ones. And an analysis of the 1,500 Standard & Poor’s companies over 15 years demonstrated that, when firms pursued innovation, the more women they had in top management, the more market value they generated.
研究结果支持他的说法。一些研究表明，女性为团队带来了新的知识、技能和关系网，降低了不必要的风险，而且做出贡献的方式可能更有利于团队和组织。在获得风投的初创企业圈，成功公司的女性高管比例中位数是失败公司的两倍多。一项研究对标准普尔1500家公司逾15年来的数据进行了分析，发现当企业追求创新时，高层管理人员中女性的比例越高，公司产生的市场价值越高。
Some men might wonder whether these benefits for the organization, and for women, might come at their individual expense, and ask, will I end up lower on the corporate ladder?
有些男性也许会问，这些对于组织和女性的好处，是否可能让男性付出代价？我在组织的地位最终会下降吗？
No. Equality is not a zero-sum game. More profits mean more rewards and promotions to go around. The risk is in not including women. Teams that fail to leverage the skills of a diverse work force fall behind. Two chief executives, John T. Chambers of Cisco, and Carlos Ghosn of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, have said that they can’t be competitive in the global economy without increasing their percentage of female executives.
不会的。性别平等并不是一个零和游戏。更多的利润，意味着更多的回报和晋升机会。把女性排除在外才会有风险。未能充分利用多元化员工队伍的技能的团队会落后。思科首席执行官约翰·T·钱伯斯(John T. Chambers)和雷诺-日产首席执行官卡洛斯·戈恩(Carlos Ghosn)说，公司若不增加女性高管的百分比，就无法在全球经济中有效竞争。
In a previous article, we highlighted why men ought to share the “office housework” — taking notes, planning meetings and helping others. Doing more actual housework matters, too. Research shows that when men do their share of chores, their partners are happier and less depressed, conflicts are fewer, and divorce rates are lower. They live longer, too; studies demonstrate that there’s a longevity boost for men (and women) who provide care and emotional support to their partners later in life.
在前面的文章中，我们强调了为什么男人应该分享“办公室家务事”——做笔记、规划会议和帮助他人。其实他们也应该在家里做更多的家务事。研究表明，当男人做自己分内的家务事时，他们的伴侣会更快乐，更少郁闷，矛盾减少了，离婚率也降低了。他们也更加长寿；研究表明，照料伴侣、为其提供和情感支持的男人（和女人），在后来的生活中寿命更长。
If that isn’t exciting enough, try this: Couples who share chores equally have more sex. As the researchers Constance T. Gager and Scott T. Yabiku put it, men and women who work hard play hard. One of us, Sheryl, has advised men that if they want to do something nice for their partners, instead of buying flowers, they should do laundry. A man who heard this was asked by his wife one night to do a load of laundry. He picked up the basket and asked hopefully, “Is this Lean In laundry?” Choreplay is real.
如果这还不够激动人心，再看看这个：分担家务的夫妻也有更多的性生活。正如研究人员康斯坦斯·T·高格(Constance T. Gager)和斯科特·T·亚比库(Scott T. Yabiku)所说，工作投入的男女玩得也尽兴。谢丽尔曾建议，男人如果想向伴侣示爱，不用去买鲜花，而是应该去洗衣服。有一名听过这个建议的男人，当妻子某晚让他去洗衣服时。他拿起装衣服的篮子，满怀希望地问，“这是《向前一步》那种洗衣服吗？”用做家务的方式来向伴侣示意效果很好。
Stepping up as a father also benefits men. Caring for children can make men more patient, empathetic and flexible and lower their rates of substance abuse. At Fortune 500 companies, when fathers spend more time with their children, they’re more satisfied with their jobs. And fatherhood itself has also been linked to lower blood pressure and lower rates of cardiovascular disease.
更多地参与亲子互动也对男性有益。关爱孩子们可以让男人变得更有耐心、同理心和灵活性，并降低他们的药物滥用率。在《财富》500强企业中，花更多的时间与孩子在一起的父亲，对自己的工作满意度也更高。当父亲这件事本身，也被认为和较低的血压和心血管疾病发生率有联系。
But the greatest positive impact may be on the next generation. Research in numerous countries reveals that children of involved fathers are healthier, happier and less likely to have behavioral problems. They are also more likely to succeed in school and, later, in their careers. A powerful study led by the University of British Columbia psychologist Alyssa Croft showed that when fathers shouldered an equal share of housework, their daughters were less likely to limit their aspirations to stereotypically female occupations. What mattered most was what fathers did, not what they said. For a girl to believe she has the same opportunities as boys, it makes a big difference to see Dad doing the dishes.
但是，受正面影响最大的可能是下一代。很多国家的研究发现，和父亲互动更多的孩子更健康，更快乐，不太可能出现行为问题。他们也更可能在学校中取得成功，并在后来的职业生涯中成功。不列颠哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)的心理学家阿丽莎·克罗夫特(Alyssa Croft)领导的一项研究很有说服力，它表明，当父亲在家务劳动中承担同等份额时，女儿把自己的愿望局限在传统女性角色中的可能性较低。最要紧的是父亲做了什么，而不是说了什么。对于女孩是否相信自己和男孩有同等的机会，“看到爸爸在做菜”这件事会产生重大影响。
The flip side is true, too — sons reap rewards when their mothers have meaningful roles at work. Years ago, psychologists found that a surprisingly high number of America’s most creative architects were raised by “distinctly autonomous mothers” who were leaders in their communities or accomplished professionals. And in a recent study by the researchers Kathryn H. Dekas of Google and Wayne E. Baker of the University of Michigan, the people who found their jobs most meaningful and enjoyable were those whose fathers and mothers were highly engaged at work.
反之也一样——如果母亲在工作中发挥重要作用，男孩会从中获益。数年前，心理学家发现，在美国最有创意的建筑师中，其母亲拥有“很高的自主权”的数量高得惊人；这些母亲是社区的领导者，或是成功的专业人士。谷歌(Google)的凯瑟琳·H·德卡斯(Kathryn H. Dekas)和密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的韦恩·E·贝克(Wayne E. Baker)最近开展了一项研究，发现如果父母都在工作中高度投入，孩子最有可能觉得自己的工作很愉快很有意义。
When children see their mothers pursuing careers and their fathers doing housework, they’re more likely to carry gender equality forward to the next generation. And when we make headway toward gender equality, entire societies prosper. Twenty-five percent of United States gross domestic product growth since 1970 is attributed to the increase in women entering the paid work force. Today, economists estimate that raising women’s participation in the work force to the same level as men could raise G.D.P. by another 5 percent in the United States — and by 9 percent in Japan and 34 percent in Egypt. “We’ve seen what can be accomplished when we use 50 percent of our human capacity,” writes the investor Warren Buffett. “If you visualize what 100 percent can do, you’ll join me as an unbridled optimist about America’s future.”
当孩子看到自己的母亲在追求事业发展，父亲在做家务，他们就更有把性别平等的意识传给下一代。在我们迈向性别平等的过程中，整个社会也繁荣起来。美国国内生产总值(GDP)自1970年来的增幅中，有25%是更多女性进入有偿劳动力市场的结果。如今，据经济学家估计，如果女性参与劳动力市场的程度，达到和男性相等，可以让美国GDP提高5%——让日本提高9%，埃及提高34%。“我们已经看到，当我们使用50%的人类能量时，可以取得什么样的成就，”投资者沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)说。“只要想想这个比例达到100%时会怎样，你就会和我一样，对美国的未来无穷乐观。”
To make gender parity a reality, we need to change the way we advocate for it. The usual focus is on fairness: To achieve justice, we need to give women equal opportunities. We need to go further and articulate why equality is not just the right thing to do for women but the desirable thing for us all.
为了让性别平等成为现实，我们需要改变倡导它的方式。通常人们把重点放在公平上：为了实现正义，我们必须为女性提供平等的机会。而我们应该更进一步，具体说明：为什么性别平等不仅对女性，而且对于所有人来说都是好事。
The women’s suffrage movement in the late 19th century provides a good case study. States did not grant voting rights when women campaigned for justice; suffrage laws got passed only when women described how having the right to vote would enable them to improve society. Similarly, during the civil rights movement, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was careful to emphasize that racial equality would be good for everyone.
女性在19世纪后期争取选举权的运动，为我们提供了一个很好的案例。当女性寻求的是正义时，国家没有授予她们公正的投票权；只有当女性展示了，拥有投票权可以让她们有能力改进社会时，选举权的法律才得到通过。同样，在民权运动中，牧师小马丁·路德·金博士(Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.)也谨慎地把重点放在种族平等对大家都有好处上。