As far back as the 1950s, couples have been asked to strap on monitors, blood-pressure cuffs, oxygen masks and other paraphernalia and copulate, to scientifically quantify the impacts of sex. The focus is often on whether sex can kill you by precipitating a heart attack. Happily, these studies generally show that heart rates rise during intercourse, but tolerably. In a 2008 study, middle-aged subjects’ heart rates jumped at the point of orgasm by only 21 beats per minute in men and 19 in women, about the same response as if they’d just done a few jumping jacks. The risk for sex-related cardiac arrest is, in fact, vanishingly small, statistics show, though it may be greater when the act is extramarital.
早在20世纪50年代，就已经有一些科学家要求参与研究的夫妇们在性爱过程中佩戴监测仪、血压袖带、氧气面罩及其他装备，以期以科学的方式量化性爱带来的影响。他们的关注点通常在于：性爱是否会诱发心肌梗死，进而致人于死地？令人庆幸的是，这些研究普遍表明，在性爱过程中人的心率确有上升，但尚在可以忍受的范围之内。在2008年的一项研究中，中年男性和女性受试者在高潮时心率每分钟仅分别增加了21跳和19跳，跟刚做完几个开合跳之后的反应差不多。统计数据显示，与性行为有关的心脏骤停风险其实微乎其微，不过，要是婚外情的话估计还是有点儿悬的。
The issue of sex as exercise, however, has remained largely unexplored. “There are these myths,” including that sex burns at least 100 calories per session, said Antony D. Karelis, a professor of exercise science at the University of Quebec at Montreal who undertook a study, published in PLOS One in October, to look at how much energy is actually exerted during sex. “But nobody had tested” those assumptions.
然而，性行为究竟能不能算是一种特殊的运动，人们目前的研究还极为有限。“这里面有很多是不实的传言”，魁北克大学（University of Quebec，位于加拿大的蒙特利尔）的运动科学教授安东尼·D·卡雷利斯(Antony D. Karelis)说。有人提出每次性行为至少可以燃烧100卡路里的热量，“但从未有人真正地测试过”这些假设。卡雷利斯就性爱过程中耗费能量的数量进行了一项研究，并于10月份发表在《公共科学图书馆：综合》(PLOS One)上。
To do so, Karelis and his colleagues recruited 21 young heterosexual committed couples from the local area and had them jog on treadmills for 30 minutes, while researchers monitored their energy expenditure and other metrics, in order to provide a comparison for the physical demands of sex. The scientists next gave their volunteers unobtrusive armband activity monitors that gauge exertion in terms of calories and METs, or metabolic equivalent of task, a physiological measure comparing an activity to sitting perfectly still, which is a 1-MET task. Then the scientists sent the couples home, instructing them to complete at least one sex act a week for a month while wearing the armbands, and to fill out questionnaires about how each session made them feel, physically and psychologically, especially compared with running on the treadmill.
在这项研究中，卡雷利斯和同事们从当地招募了21对已婚的异性恋夫妇，要求他们在跑步机上慢跑30分钟，并在同时监测了他们的能量消耗情况和其他指标，留待与性爱的体能要求相比较。接下来，科学家们给志愿者们戴上了不显眼的臂带式活动监测仪，以便以卡路里或者MET（代谢当量，一种生理指标，坐着一动不动的活动量为1-MET）的形式来衡量某一活动的能量消耗情况。然后，科学家们让这些夫妇各自回家，指示他们在一个月期间每周至少要佩戴臂带完成一次性行为，此外，他们还需要在调查问卷中填写每次性爱时的生理和心理感受，尤其是要将其与在跑步机上跑步进行对比。
When the researchers analyzed all of the resulting data, it was clear, Karelis said, that sex qualified as “moderate exercise,” a 6-MET activity for men and 5.6-MET activity for women. That’s the equivalent, according to various estimates, of playing doubles tennis or walking uphill. The jogging, by comparison, was more strenuous, an 8.5-MET activity for the men in the study and 8.4 for women. (Though some men, according to their activity monitors, used more energy for brief periods during sex than they did jogging.) The sex also burned four calories per minute for men and three per minute for women, during sessions that ranged from 10 to 57 minutes, including foreplay. (The average was 25 minutes.) Men burned about 9 calories per minute jogging and women about 7.
在研究人员分析了所获得的全部数据后，卡雷利斯指出，很显然，性行为符合“中度运动”的标准：对于男性来说，其运动代谢当量为6-MET，对于女性为5.6-MET。在不同的估算值中，上述运动量大致相当于玩网球双打或步行上山。相比之下，慢跑就较为剧烈，在参与研究的男性和女性中，运动代谢当量分别为8.5-MET和8.4-MET。（虽然根据活动监测仪的数据，一部分男性在性爱中会有短暂的时间比慢跑时消耗能量更多。）在历时10至57分钟不等（平均为25分钟，包括前戏）的性爱过程中，男性平均每分钟燃烧4大卡，女性平均每分钟燃烧3大卡。而在慢跑时，男性和女性的能量消耗分别为平均每分钟大约9大卡和7大卡。
Over all, the data reveal that “sex can be considered, at times, a significant exercise,” Karelis said, worth encouraging in people who otherwise balk at working out. Ninety-eight percent of Karelis’s volunteers reported that sex felt more fun than jogging. The other 2 percent, I suspect, will be back in the dating market soon. 
卡雷利斯说，数据显示，总体而言，“有时可以将性爱视作一种重要的运动”，因此值得向不乐意锻炼的人们推荐。在卡雷利斯的志愿者中，有98%表示性爱可比慢跑有趣多了。至于剩下的那2%，我怀疑他们很快就会恢复单身。