Sing, muse, of crinolines piled in layers, of blunt-cut bobs and Cupid’s bow lips?
呀，这是在赞美一层层堆起来的衬裙、剪法生硬的波波头和弓形唇吗？
Inspirations come in many forms during the fashion collections. It has been a surprise, though not an unwelcome one, to find that this season, an unexpected one joins their ranks: the fabulously eccentric fashion writer Lynn Yaeger, who watched her own avatars on the march from her place in the stands.
时尚月的灵感来源真是多种多样。这一季，有一个人物出人意料地成为灵感缪斯之一，不过这一意外并非不受欢迎——那就是超级怪异的时尚作者琳恩·耶格尔(Lynn Yaeger)，她在看台上看见自己的化身从秀台上款款走过。
Ms. Yaeger, a fashion mainstay who wrote for decades for The Village Voice during its alterna-bible glory days and now contributes to Vogue, has a signature, unvarying style: an anachronistic little bob dyed flaming red, pyramidal layers of skirt and underskirt, the exaggerated lips painted à la Betty Boop, two traffic-light dots of rouge high on her cheeks.
时尚界的中流砥柱耶格尔在《村声》(The Village Voice)杂志被视为另类圣经的辉煌时代为它写了数十年的文章，现在则为《Vogue》撰稿。她的标志性造型永远不变：染成火红色的不属于这个时代的小波波头，金字塔形的一层层裙子和衬裙，嘴唇涂成贝蒂娃娃的样子，以及颧骨上方红绿灯样的两点腮红。
During New York Fashion Week, early in the monthlong marathon of shows, a new model, Katie Moore, appeared with a bob cut almost exactly like Ms. Yaeger’s, and dyed tomato-red. W Magazine reported that the look was brand new; Guido Palau, the runway hairstylist, had cut what had previously been nearly waist-length corn-silk blond hair just before the shows.
纽约时装周期间——准确地说是在持续一个月的时装秀马拉松开始的时候——模特新秀凯蒂·摩尔(Katie Moore)顶着跟耶格尔几乎一模一样的、染成番茄红色的波波头亮相。《W》杂志报道说，那个造型是刚出炉的。秀台发型师吉多·帕劳(Guido Palau)在时装秀开始前剪掉了摩尔几乎齐腰的穗丝般金发。
With her new look, Ms. Moore opened the Alexander Wang show, a coveted get for models.
摩尔带着自己的新造型为亚历山大·王(Alexander Wang)的时装秀揭幕，这是很多模特渴望得到的亮相机会。
“It’s the Mamie Eisenhower bangs,” Ms. Yaeger said with admiration. “Most people won’t go there.”
耶格尔赞赏地说：“那是玛米·艾森豪威尔(Mamie Eisenhower)的刘海。大部分人想不到这个。”
At the Marc Jacobs show later in New York, the designer showed the oversize skirts in the inverted-top style Ms. Yaeger flatters. The similarity was not lost on her or her colleagues. “Marc Jacobs was astonishing,” Ms. Yaeger said in Paris. “Yeah, it was flattering.”
后来，在纽约的马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)时装秀上，设计师推出了令耶格尔备感荣幸的超大蓬松裙，上身则是上宽下窄。耶格尔和同事们可没漏掉这个相似之处。“马克·雅可布总是令人惊讶，”耶格尔在巴黎接受采访时说，“是的，我受宠若惊。”
And, astonishingly, as fashion month wore on, so it seemed did little outcroppings of homage. Perhaps it was merely the acquisition of Yaeger-colored glasses, but one could see a bit of her style in the ever-enlarging ball skirts of the Undercover finale and even, too, in some of the ballooning pieces at Chloé. And Ms. Moore, the Lynn-alike model, had a banner season, walking major shows in London, Milan and Paris, including Moschino, Margiela and Balenciaga.
更令人惊讶的是，随着时装月的进行，我们似乎看到更多对耶格尔的致敬。也许是因为戴上了涂着耶格尔色彩的有色眼镜，我们从很多衣服上似乎都能看到耶格尔的影子，比如Undercover最后一个造型中的超大伞裙以及Chloé的一些蓬松的衣服。而且，跟琳恩造型很像的摩尔这一季很是风光，在伦敦、米兰和巴黎的很多重要时装秀上走秀，包括Moschino、Margiela和巴黎世家(Balenciaga)。
Ms. Yaeger was humble about the phenomenon, saying that she had no plans to alter her trademark style because of it.
耶格尔对这一现象的反应很谦逊，表示不打算因此改变自己的标志性风格。 
“I don’t know why anyone would put anything else on a runway,” she said. Nor could she fathom other styles off the runway. “Did you notice some girls actually wear pants?” she said. “I’ve never even seen pants for sale!”
“我不明白为什么有人会在秀台上展示别的东西，”她说。她也不能理解秀台之外的其他风格。“你有没有注意到有些女孩真的穿裤子？”她说，“我从没见过卖裤子的！”