A four-bedroom on the Upper West Side listed for $875,000 has been languishing since December. A $385,000 two-bedroom in Manhattan Valley has been available for six months. And a studio in Chelsea with a $299,000 price tag only recently went into contract after nearly a year and $60,000 in price cuts.
上西区有一套四居室，挂牌价87.5万美元（约合人民币544万元），自12月以来一直没销路；曼哈顿谷(Manhattan Valley)有一套两居室，挂牌价是38.5万美元（约合人民币239万元），上市6个月未能出手；切尔西(Chelsea)有一套单间公寓要价29.9万美元（约合人民币186万元），挂出来将近一年，直到最近才成交，售价还砍掉了6万美元（约合人民币37万元）。
In this extremely tight real estate market, when practically any listing is snapped up instantly, why are some of the city’s most affordable apartments struggling to find buyers? It’s because they belong to a small and quirky breed of co-op that requires buyers to meet income caps, yet have significant assets on hand — a tall order for most.
目前，房产市场的供求缺口巨大，基本上一有房子挂牌上市，就会被抢购一空。既然如此，为什么有些纽约市最平价的公寓却迟迟找不到买主呢？这是因为，管理它们的合作公寓管委会属于一小撮奇葩类型。他们一方面要求买主的收入不能超出某个标准，另一方面又要求买主手头要有大量资产——对于大多数人来说，这样的条件是强人所难。
“It’s a Catch-22, since they can’t earn more than a certain amount, but cannot qualify for financing at that income unless they make a massive down payment,” said Christopher J. Stanley, an associate broker with the Corcoran Group, who recently sold a $510,000 one-bedroom in Hell’s Kitchen that required the buyer to pay in cash yet earn no more than $67,000 a year. “Everybody wanted to buy, but most people could not qualify.”
“这就是一个‘第22条军规’。买家本来就赚得有限，但除非拿出一大笔首付金，才能申请贷款。”柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的助理经纪人克里斯托弗·J·斯坦利(Christopher J. Stanley)说，他最近在地狱厨房（Hell’s Kitchen，其正式行政区名为克林顿[Clinton]，是曼哈顿岛西岸的一个地区——译注）卖出了一套一居室公寓，售价51万美元（约合人民币317万元）。这套公寓要求买家必须以现金支付，然而年收入却不得超过6.7万美元（约合人民币42万元）。“人人都想买，但是大多数人都不符合条件。”
Welcome to the world of what is known in real estate as the H.D.F.C., or Housing Development Fund Corporation — a form of co-op housing intended for low-income New Yorkers. The bulk of these income-restricted co-ops came into being after thousands of derelict apartments were seized by the city in the late ’70s. The city began fixing up the buildings, then allowed tenants to buy them for nominal amounts and turn them into low-income co-ops. The buildings were concentrated on the Lower East Side and in Upper Manhattan, Brooklyn and the South Bronx.
欢迎来到这个被房地产业界称为H.D.F.C.或“住房发展基金公司”(Housing Development Fund Corporation)的世界——一种面向低收入纽约人的合作公寓住房形式。此类公寓限制住户的收入标准，大多出现于70年代末，当时市政府回收了上千套被废弃的公寓，开始修缮这些建筑，并允许租房者以象征性的价格购买它们，将其变为面向低收入人群的合作公寓。这些建筑集中于下东区、曼哈顿上城区、布鲁克林(Brooklyn)和南布朗克斯(South Bronx)。
Originally, the apartments were sold to residents for just $250 each. To keep them affordable, income ceilings were imposed on resales, as were hefty flip-tax provisions to help deter anyone looking to make a quick profit. In return, tax subsidies helped keep maintenance low. Today, there are an estimated 25,800 of these apartments across some 1,200 buildings, according to the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
一开始，这些公寓以每套区区250美元（约合人民币1553元）的价格卖给了居民。为使这些房源的价格保持实惠，公寓在转售时也要遵守收入上限；此外，高额的短期倒卖税也有助于吓退那些投机客。作为补偿，税收补贴将公寓的维护费用维持在了较低水平。据纽约市房屋维护与开发局(New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)估计，目前此类公寓共有25800套，大约分散在1200座建筑里。
In the past, the apartments were resold for moderate amounts. But over the last decade, as some once-blighted neighborhoods became more desirable, the script changed. Resale listings popped up for $300,000, even $800,000, putting them out of reach of most low-income buyers. In rare cases the apartments have gone for more than $1 million.
在过去，这些公寓的转售价格较为适中。然而近十年来，随着一些曾经萧条的社区变成热门地段，情况发生了改变。转售房的挂牌价跃升到了30万美元（约合人民币186万元），甚至80万美元（约合人民币497万元），大多数低收入买家都负担不起。极少数公寓的售价甚至超过100万美元（约合人民币621万元）。
At the Grinnell, a century-old building topped by corner towers at 800 Riverside Drive, a nine-room income-restricted apartment sold for $2.025 million in March — $30,000 above the $1.995 million asking price.
格林内尔(Grinnell)位于河滨大道(Riverside Drive)800号，是一座百年老建筑，顶部有多边形的塔楼。今年3月，该建筑内有一套面向低收入人士的九居室公寓被成功卖出，成交价202.5万美元（约合人民币1258万元），比199.5万美元（约合人民币1,240万元）的初始要价高出了3万美元（约合人民币19万元）。
At these prices, it’s reasonable to wonder: Who can afford to buy these apartments with a limited income? Increasingly, brokers and housing advocates say, the answer is retirees, young people receiving help from their families, middle-class workers with a sudden inheritance and others who qualify on paper for the income caps but have significant assets.
既然房价这么高，我们难免会有疑问：在收入有限的情况下，谁还买得起这样的公寓呢？越来越多的经纪人和保障房拥护者宣称，买得起这类公寓的人，要么是退休老人或有家庭资助的年轻人，要么就是突然继承了一笔遗产或得到意外之财的中产阶级工薪族。这些人在名义上满足特定的收入上限，但却拥有大量资产。
“I’ve seen every permutation,” said Lee-Ann Pinder, a real estate agent with Citi Habitats, who has worked on a number of income-restricted deals over the last six years. They included buyers who “had a change in circumstance in their life” and buyers who had sold property and were going back to school, she said. Otherwise, “If you’ve got an income cap of $72,000 for an individual, and they are supposed to buy a property for $400,000, how’s the math going to work?” she said.
“我见过各种各样的情况，”花旗居屋(Citi Habitats)的房地产经纪人李-安·平德(Lee-Ann Pinder)表示，六年来，她参与了多宗涉及收入限定型房产的交易。她说，有的买家“生活状况发生了某种改变”，还有的买家刚卖了房子，打算回校就学。否则，“如果你给买家设置了7.2万美元（约合人民币45万元）的收入上限，却让他们去购买一套40万美元（约合人民币249万元）的房子，收支怎可能平衡？”她说。
Gary Cowling, an actor and teacher who purchased the Hell’s Kitchen apartment listed by Mr. Stanley of Corcoran for $510,000, had saved some money by living frugally in a rent-controlled apartment. He came into a small inheritance after his parents died that allowed him to pay cash — a crucial factor in closing the deal, as the co-op lacked some financial records required by banks for lending.
加里·考林(Gary Cowling)是一名演员兼教师，他支付51万美元（约合人民币317万元），买下了柯克兰公司的斯坦利在地狱厨房挂牌销售的那套公寓。此前他居住在一套租金管制公寓里，过着简朴的生活，由此攒下了一些积蓄。父母去世后，他继承了一小笔遗产，因此有足够的财力支付现金——这是交易成功的关键，因为这套合作公寓缺少从银行申请贷款所需的财务记录。
“You needed to be income poor, but savings rich,” said Mr. Cowling, who met the $67,000 income cap. “Acting and teaching does not make a lot of money.”
“你需要是个收入少而存款多的人，”考林说，他的收入在6.7万美元（约合人民币42万元）以下，符合购房条件，“演戏和教书赚不了多少钱。”
Higher resale prices help Housing Development Fund Corporations to keep maintenance fees low. Many H.D.F.C. co-ops impose flip taxes on resales of as much as 30 percent, with the money going back into building coffers for roof repairs, facade work and other maintenance issues. With Mr. Cowling’s purchase, for instance, the co-op received 30 percent of the seller’s profit on the $510,000 sale.
由于这些公寓的转售价格变得越来越高，住房开发基金公司可以将维护费用维持在较低水平。许多H.D.F.C.合作公寓设置的短期倒卖税税率高达30%，税收收入回到大楼管理方的账户，就被用于修缮屋顶、门面工程等维护开支。比方说，在考林那笔51万美元（约合人民币317万元）的购房交易中，合作公寓一方就能从卖家那里拿到30%的利润。
“I think H.D.F.C. boards are really trying to keep it for affordable-housing buyers,” said Karen D. Shenker, an associate broker with Corcoran who has sold 46 income-restricted apartments since 2007. “On the other hand, they also need to sell at a particular price point that can help build the co-op reserves so they can survive as an H.D.F.C.”
“我觉得H.D.F.C.委员会确实在努力将房子留给平价房买家。”柯克兰公司的助理经纪人凯伦·D·申克(Karen D. Shenker)说，她自2007年起已卖出了46套收入限定型公寓，“另一方面，他们也需要将售价维持在一个特定水平，以便为公寓管委会积累一笔存款，使H.D.F.C.能够长久运作下去。”
And who would blame a seller for trying to capitalize on his or her investment? Francisco and Cyntia Waltersdorfer bought an income-restricted apartment three years ago in Morningside Heights when they were budding architects, fresh out of graduate school. “One of the bathroom walls was stiffened with packing tape,” recalled Mr. Waltersdorfer, who now works for a Manhattan firm. “A portion of the ceiling was falling apart.”
而且，卖房子的人想从自己的投资中赚钱，何罪之有呢？三年前，弗朗西斯科·沃尔特斯多夫(Francisco Waltersdorfer)和辛西娅·沃尔特斯多夫(Cyntia Waltersdorfer)在晨边高地(Morningside Heights)买了一套收入限定型公寓，当时他们研究生刚毕业，还是新入行的建筑师。“有一间浴室的墙是用打包带加固的，”弗朗西斯科回忆道，他现在在曼哈顿的一家公司工作，“天花板有一部分裂开了。”
But at about $270,000, the price was right, and as architecture students, they had the know-how to fix up the apartment. To gain more living space, the couple turned the small two-bedroom into a large one-bedroom. They also invested roughly $100,000 in upgrades, including plumbing and electrical work and kitchen and bath makeovers.
不过这套房子27万美元（约合人民币168万元）的价位还比较合适。况且，作为建筑系的学生，他们知道如何修缮这套公寓。为获得更多的居住空间，夫妇俩将两间小卧室合并成了一间大卧室。他们还为房屋升级投入大约10万美元（约合人民币62万元），其中包括水管、电气工程及厨房、浴室的翻新。
Now, with a toddler and a newborn in tow, they have outgrown the place and need to sell. The building’s income cap is fairly generous, allowing a buyer to earn as much as $225,000 for one or two people. The maintenance, $450 a month, is low, and the flip tax is just 3 percent of the sale price, as opposed to the 30 percent charged by some income-restricted co-ops. But finding a buyer hasn’t been easy.
现在，夫妇俩有了一个初学走路的孩子和一个新生儿，房子快住不下了，他们需要卖掉它。这座公寓楼设置的收入上限比较高，买方的一或两人的收入合起来，不得超过22.5万美元（约合人民币140万元）；公寓每月450美元（约合人民币2,796元）的物业维护费比较低；短期倒卖税的税率也只有售价的3%，不像有些同类公寓设置的30%那么高。但是，寻找买家仍并不容易。
With a listing price of $459,000, they hope to clear enough cash on the deal to recoup their investment and have enough for a down payment for a larger space.“Hopefully the right person will come along and buy it,” Mrs. Waltersdorfer said.
房子的挂牌价是45.9万美元（约合人民币285万元）。夫妇俩希望在这笔交易中拿到足够的现金，收回投资成本，为购买更大的房子筹集够首付。“但愿会有合适的买家把它买走。”辛西娅说。
“Sellers of all stripes are going to try to get the best and highest price for their properties,” said Scott Harris of Brown Harris Stevens, the listing broker for an $875,000 four-bedroom at 72 West 88th Street, a walk-up building near Central Park. His clients bought the unit for a nominal sum when it turned co-op in 1997, he said.
“卖房子的人都会想尽办法将自己的房产卖个好价钱，”房地产公司Brown Harris Stevens的斯科特·哈里斯(Scott Harris)说。他是西88街72号一套四居室房源的卖方经纪人，此房的挂牌价是87.5万美元（约合人民币544万元），位于中央公园附近一座无电梯的大楼里。哈里斯说，他的客户是在1997年以象征性的价格买下这套住宅的，当时它刚被改建成合作公寓。
Interest has been high, with roughly 250 inquiries, 80 showings and 15 offers over the course of the past 7 months, Mr. Harris said. But the offers either were too low or didn’t work out because the buyers couldn’t qualify for a loan or didn’t quite meet the income requirements, which are capped at 165 percent of the area median income or $141,735 for a family of four. Though the apartment needs work, Mr. Harris noted, “in a building with an elevator, without the rigors of income caps, this is likely worth two times this asking price.”
市场对这套房子的兴趣很高。在过去七个月里，大约有250个买家咨询，80个买家看房，15个买家提出报价，哈里斯说。但是这些报价要么太低，要么因买家没有申请贷款的资格或不符合收入要求而无效。它对买家的收入上限是本地区收入中值的165%，四口之家的收入不得超过141735美元（约合人民币88.1万元）。尽管这套公寓需要修缮，但哈里斯提示说，“在一栋带电梯的公寓楼里，收入限制又不严格，它的真实价值说是要价的两倍可能也不为过。”
The idea that these apartments would sell for anywhere close to today’s prices was beyond belief some 40 years ago when the city started using foreclosure to combat the wave of abandonment that blighted many neighborhoods, said Andrew Reicher, the executive director of the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board, a nonprofit organization, known as UHAB, that provides training, technical and development services to create, sustain and preserve this type of cooperative housing.
纽约市城市定居协助会(Urban Homesteading Assistance Board，以下简称UHAB)是一家非营利组织，旨在为建造、维护和保存这类合作住宅提供培训、技术和开发服务。该协助会的执行理事安德鲁·雷谢(Andrew Reicher)说，放在40多年前，人们想都想不到，这些公寓会以接近如今水平的价格售出。当时，市政府开始通过止赎权来打击贷款购房者弃房成风的现象。他们弃房逃跑的行为，为许多社区带来了灾难。
Tenants who banded together and purchased buildings from the city were bound by income restrictions, which varied depending on the type of government subsidy with which the co-op was created and also when it was formed. One common standard is to cap incomes at six or seven times the annual maintenance plus a factor for utilities, depending on the number of people in the household. Another is to cap buyer earnings at some percentage of the area median income. But there have been few outright restrictions on resale prices.
组团从市政府处购买大楼的租房者，将受到收入限制的约束，不同的楼设有不同收入上限，具体取决于合作公寓建造期间的的政府补助类型及建成时间。一个通用的标准是，将收入上限设为每年维护费用的六或七倍，同时根据家庭人数，将水电杂费考虑在内。另一个通用标准是，将买家的收入限定在本地区收入中值的某个比例范围内。不过对于转售价格，目前还没什么明文规定作出限制。
Even though many income-restricted apartments are still below market rate, Mr. Reicher of UHAB said, “you do see prices that are much higher than what you would think of as affordable housing.,” he said. “We don’t think that’s in keeping with the purpose and intent of H.D.F.C.’s.”
尽管许多收入限定型公寓的价格依然低于市价，但UHAB的雷谢表示，“你确实能看到，一些保障房的价格比你想象的要高很多，”他说，“我们认为这样做并不符合H.D.F.C.的宗旨和本意。”
Some income restrictions come with term limits that range from 10 to 40 years. When the term is up, the co-op must agree to continue the old income restrictions or adopt new ones, but price restrictions are typically not required.
有些收入限定型住房，还设置了期限10至40年的限定性条款。条款到期后，合作公寓一方必须继续执行原来的收入限制或采用新的限制条款，不过房价一般没有限制。
Mr. Reicher’s group has been calling for consistent price caps on resales and for consistent income restrictions across all Housing Department Fund Corporations. In exchange for stricter regulations, including maximum resale prices, for example, buildings could receive a more substantial tax subsidy. At least 50 newer income-restricted buildings have been created with such price caps in recent years, Mr. Reicher said. And there have been other steps toward regulation.
雷谢的团队一直在呼吁，对所有H.D.F.C.住房的转售行为，设置相应的房价上限，并规定相应的收入限制。在制定了这些更为严格的规定后，作为补偿，公寓楼可享受更大的税收补贴。雷谢表示，近年来，至少已有50座新的收入限定型公寓楼制定了类似的房价上限。其它相关规定也在拟定过程中。
After taking over a derelict building, the city now uses a “third-party transfer” to turn the building over to a nonprofit group like UHAB or to a for-profit developer. A couple of years ago, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development added a price cap based on bedroom size and year sold for new H.D.F.C. co-ops created through this program.
回收废弃楼房后，市政府现在采用了“第三方转让”机制，将楼房转给UHAB等非营利组织或营利性的开发商。几年前，房屋保护和发展局根据卧室的大小，对本项目框架下一个新的H.D.F.C.合作公寓增设了房价上限。
Some of the price creep has been a natural function of H.D.F.C. bylaws. In buildings where the income cap is based on a percentage of the median income and the neighborhood has become more affluent, prices have risen accordingly. “As Harlem, the Lower East Side and Williamsburg have become more gentrified, incomes have gone up,” said Tracie Hamersley of Citi Habitats, who has sold several income-restricted units over the years. As a result, these apartments are “attracting a different group of buyers that might be making more money than 5, 10, 15 years ago,” she said.
有些住房的价格之所以会不知不觉地上升，是H.D.F.C.的规定造成的自然结果。如果收入上限的设置依据是收入中值的特定比例，而楼房所在社区的居民普遍变得更加富裕了，那么房价就会相应地上涨。花旗居屋的特蕾西·哈莫斯利(Tracie Hamersley) 近年来卖出了好几套收入限定型的公寓。她说：“随着哈莱姆区、下东区和威廉斯堡变得日益士绅化，居民收入已经有所提升，”因此，这些公寓“吸引的目标买家是和以前不同的群体，他们赚的钱可能比5年前、10年前、15年前的买家要多。”她说。
Heather Tierney, a designer and restaurateur, recently accepted an offer at the full asking price of $450,000 for her Lower East Side loft, which has an income restriction of $63,072 for one person or $69,084 for two people. She bought the unit, a fifth-floor walk-up, 10 years ago for $299,500. “I was a writer for a magazine and I made no money,” she said.
设计师兼餐馆老板希瑟·泰尼(Heather Tierney)正在销售自己上东区的一套复式公寓，最近，她接受了一个买家45万美元（约合人民币280万元）的报价，完全符合她的要价。针对这套公寓的收入上限是单人63072美元（约合人民币391945元），或两人69084美元（约合人民币429305元）。房子是她十年前买下的，位置在一座无电梯楼房的五层，当初的买价是29.95万美元（约合人民币186万元）。“那时候我是一家杂志的撰稿人，赚的钱很少。”她说。
Thanks to a good credit score and a borrowed down payment from a grandfather, she was able to qualify for an adjustable-rate mortgage.
由于信用评分良好，加上从祖父那里借来的首付款，她符合了申请可调利率按揭贷款的条件。
“When I first moved in, it was a lot of original tenants,” Ms. Tierney said. “Now it’s a bunch of young people — young professionals, young couples, mainly single people.”
“我一开始搬进来的时候，这里有很多老租户，”泰尼说，“而现在，这里是一群年轻人了——年轻职员、年轻夫妇，多数是单身的人。”
But with her business expanding to Los Angeles, she is looking for a place to live there. Without the proceeds from her New York apartment, she said, she wouldn’t be able to buy in California. “A little one-bedroom bungalow shack is like a million dollars out here,” she said.
不过，自从业务扩张到洛杉矶后，她就打算在那里找个住处。若不是在纽约的公寓上得到收益，她就买不起加州的房子。“在那个地方，一套一居室的平房小屋就要100万美元（约合人民币621万元）。”她说。
Not every H.D.F.C. apartment is going for half a million dollars. At uhab.org/homeownership, where UHAB announces listings in H.D.F.C. co-op buildings, resale prices are around $30,000 a room; the organization generally does not post listings for units more expensive than that. For example, recent listings in the Bronx ranged from $25,000 for a one-bedroom to $75,000 for a three-bedroom. In some newly converted buildings, an apartment can cost as little as $2,500.
并不是每套H.D.F.C.公寓都会卖到50万美元（约合人民币311万元）。在UHAB公布H.D.F.C.合作公寓楼内挂牌房源的网站uhab.org/homeownership上，转售价格大约在每个房间3万美元（约合人民币19万元）；UHAB一般不会发布挂牌价超出这个水平的待售房产信息。比方说，最近布朗克斯区的挂牌价，就是从最低2.5万美元（约合人民币16万元）的一居室，到最高7.5万美元（约合人民币47万元）的三居室不等。在一些新改建的大楼中，一套公寓的售价可低至2500美元（约合人民币1.6万元）。
As with any real estate purchase, buyers must do their research. If the price seems way too low or an apartment has been lingering on the market for many months, ask yourself a few questions, said Ms. Pinder of Citi Habitats. “Why is it priced this way? Nine times out of 10 it might be something financial,” like a lack of reserves for maintenance problems. Even if the co-op is in good financial shape, a lack of reports and board minutes can mean banks won’t lend to buyers. And some apartments may simply be overpriced.
在任何一笔购房交易中，买家都需要做足功课。花旗居屋的平德表示，如果房价看起来实在太低，或者一套挂牌公寓已经滞销了好几个月，那就要问自己几个问题。“为什么价格会这么离谱？十有八九是因为资金问题，”比如大楼的物业维护储备金短缺。即使合作公寓一方的财务状况很好，如果缺少信用报告和董事会记录，银行也可能不发放贷款。还有一些公寓，可能只是定价过高。
“As long as they are financially sound and they are well priced, they will fly off the shelves,” said Karen D. Shenker of the Corcoran Group. Last month, she listed a renovated three-bedroom in Harlem for $300,000 with income caps ranging from $70,500 for one person to $108,750 for five. The first open house drew more than 100 people and multiple bids. Within a week, the apartment had an accepted offer for more than 10 percent above the asking price.
“只要财务状况良好，定价合适，它们很快就会被买家抢走，”柯克兰集团的凯伦·D·申克(Karen D. Shenker)说。上个月，她挂牌销售了一套经过装修的三居室。房子位于哈莱姆区，要价30万美元（约合人民币186万元），买家的收入上限针对一人是70500美元（约合人民币438105元），或对五人是108750美元（约合人民币675800元）。第一个开放参观日就吸引了一百来号人，有多人报价。短短一周内，卖家就接受了一个比要价高出10%的报价。
Yet, even at the higher prices, many income-restricted apartments are still a bargain. And for those who can qualify, the apartments are a godsend.
不过，即使价位更高，许多收入限定型公寓依然是抢手货。对于符合条件的买家，这些公寓可谓天赐。
After a determined six-month hunt, Anna Steegmann was considering giving up her search for an income-restricted H.D.F.C. apartment. While she met the income cap of $72,150 for one person, she had been outbid for a $315,000 three-bedroom in an elevator building in Harlem. “It’s hard,” said Ms. Steegmann, who is 60 and teaches writing for social sciences at the college level. “If you’re a low-income person, how are you going to have $315,000 in cash?”
安娜·斯蒂格曼(Anna Steegmann)坚定地找了六个月的房子，最终打算放弃寻找收入限定型的H.D.F.C.公寓。她虽然满足一个人72150美元（约合人民币448358元）的收入上限，但在竞购哈莱姆区的一套三居室电梯公寓时，被开价更高的买家淘汰了。“太难了，”现年60岁、在高校的社会学科教写作的斯蒂格曼说，“你让低收入者怎么拿得出31.5万美元（约合人民币196万元）的现金？”