Donald Trump has had possibly the most dismal October of any presidential nominee in recent history, and the month is just more than half over. Facing accusations of sexual harassment and criticism for vulgar and demeaning comments toward women, Trump limps into Wednesday’s debate, the final one against Hillary Clinton, with polls showing him losing in nearly every state he must win.
在近代历史上所有的总统候选人中，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的十月可能是最惨淡的，而这个月才过去了一半多一点。特朗普面对着性骚扰的指控，以及他用庸俗和贬低的语言谈论女性的批评，他在挣扎之中进入周三的最后一场与希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的辩论。民意测验显示，他在几乎每个他必须赢的州里都处于失利状态。
Much can happen in politics over three weeks, and this election has been full of surprises. But by lashing out at the news media; criticizing Speaker Paul D. Ryan, his party’s highest-ranking official; and claiming without evidence that the electoral system is “rigged,” Trump appears less intent on finding a path to victory than on grasping for scapegoats to explain away an eventual loss.
虽然在剩下的三周里，政治上仍可能发生很多事情，而且这次总统大选已经充满了意想不到的东西。但是，特朗普似乎没并不想找到一条通向胜利的道路，他猛烈抨击新闻媒体，批评本党的最高民选官员、众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)，并毫无证据地声称选举被“操纵”，这些都表明，他是在为解释最终的失败找替罪羊。
How he and Clinton approach the debate in Las Vegas will go a long way in determining just how sordid the remainder of this race will be — and how difficult the healing process will be once it ends. Here are a few of the things we will be watching:
他和克林顿在拉斯维加斯的这场辩论上如何表现，将会在很大程度上有助于确定这次大选的最后阶段有多么丑恶，以及对大选结果一旦出来之后，愈合的过程有多么困难。以下是一些我们将要观察的方面：
— Is Trump worried about his brand?
— 特朗普担心他的品牌吗？
Trump is already the most disliked presidential nominee in the history of polling, and his reputation is unlikely to recover if he continues to peddle conspiracy theories about election fraud and mock the looks of the women who have accused him of sexual assault. Another slashing performance against Clinton could push away even more undecided voters, though at this point there may be few swing voters left for Trump to alienate.
特朗普已经是民意测验史上最不受欢迎的总统提名人，如果他继续兜售关于选举舞弊的阴谋论、继续嘲弄指控他性侵犯的女性的外表，他的声誉不大可能会恢复。猛烈攻击克林顿的又一次表演，可能会驱走更多未拿定主意的选民，虽然此时此刻，特朗普能疏远的选民可能已经所剩无几。
But if he has little left to lose as a politician, Trump still has significant interests at stake in the race. Many of his business ventures depend on the value of his personal brand, and at some point, he may feel pressure — from family members and business partners — to protect his investments by tempering his machine-gunner’s instincts.
但是，如果说特朗普作为政客可失去的东西已经不多了，他在大选中仍有重大的利益攸关。他的许多商业活动靠他个人品牌的价值，他可能在某个时刻感受到来自家庭成员及商业伙伴的压力，让他通过按耐自己的机关枪本能来保护投资。
There’s been no evidence of such restraint from Trump, however, and a do-or-die debate may be an unlikely moment for him to shift in that direction.
然而，没有证据表明特朗普有这种约束力，一场决一死战的辩论也许不太可能是让他朝那个方向转变的时刻。
— Can Clinton find the right tone?
— 克林顿能找到恰当的语气吗？
Trump is not the only one confronting a stark choice about how to proceed. With her campaign expanding to compete in traditionally Republican-leaning states and her advantage growing in most of the battlegrounds, Clinton is well positioned as the race enters its final days. Because Clinton is now so heavily favored to win, the debate offers an opportunity for her to start looking beyond the election and toward unifying a country that has been divided by an ugly campaign.
特朗普并不是唯一一位面对如何继续竞选的残酷选择的人。 随着她的竞选活动把竞争扩大到传统上倾向于共和党的州，随着她的优势在大多数双方仍在争夺的州中增长，克林顿在大选进入最后日子的时候处于优势地位。目前，克林顿获胜的可能性非常高，因此这场辩论为她提供一个机会，让她开始着眼于大选结束之后如何团结一个被丑恶的竞选活动分裂了的国家。
After praising Michelle Obama’s “when they go low, we go high” credo, Clinton now has a chance to turn that advice into action. And doing so would not simply be an exercise in high-mindedness to win plaudits from centrist commentators. By vowing to represent all Americans after the election, including Trump’s supporters, she can also disarm an opponent who relishes confrontation but has little aptitude for conciliation.
赞扬了米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)“当别人往道德的低处走时，我们要继续向高处前行”的信条后，克林顿现在有机会把这个忠告变为行动。而且，这样做不只是一个为赢得中间派评论人士称赞的高尚品格练习。通过立誓在大选后代表包括特朗普支持者在内的所有美国人，克林顿也能让对手无能为力，这个对手虽然喜欢对抗，但基本没有寻求调解的本领。
— Will Trump torch his own party?
— 特朗普将火烧自己所在的政党吗？
Snubbed by Ryan in the final month of the campaign, Trump has seemed as eager to attack turncoat leaders in his own party as to make the case against Clinton. He has reserved special venom for Ryan, blasting him as a weak leader with bad ideas about trade and immigration and suggesting that Ryan might be sabotaging Trump’s campaign to pave the way for a presidential run of his own in four years.
在大选的最后一个月里，被瑞恩冷落的特朗普，似乎热衷于攻击自己政党的叛逆领袖，程度一点也不亚于在制造反对克林顿的理由上所表现的热情。他把特别恶毒的语言留给了瑞恩，猛烈抨击瑞恩是软弱的领导人，在贸易和移民问题上没有好想法，并暗示瑞恩可能为了给自己四年后的总统竞选铺平道路，在蓄意破坏特朗普的竞选活动。
These attacks have the potential to rip apart the Republican Party in ways that will last long beyond Election Day. Should Trump use a prime-time debate to sic the Republican base on its leaders — and to cast himself, essentially, as an independent candidate challenging elites on the left and right — he could inflict damage on the party far deeper than what Clinton might deliver on her own.
这些攻击有让共和党分崩离析的潜在可能，其影响将在大选日之后持续很长时间。要是特朗普使用黄金时段的辩论来怂恿自己的共和党支持者们攻击该党的领导人，本质上把自己说成是一个挑战左派和右派精英的独立候选人的话，他可能会给共和党带来远比克林顿本人能制造的更深重的损害。
And should Trump strafe the party that nominated him, it could have immediate consequences for Republicans seeking election to the House and Senate, who cannot afford an abrupt drop in turnout from demoralized and angry voters in their own camp.
要是特朗普炮轰提名自己为总统候选人的政党的话，这可能会对正在竞选参议院和众议院席位的共和党人有直接的后果，这些共和党人不想看到自己阵营中的选民，由于沮丧和愤怒，突然决定不去投票。
— Will Clinton seek to reposition herself?
— 克林顿将寻求重新定位自己吗？
Republicans have been overjoyed that the WikiLeaks hacks of Clinton’s private speeches and the email account of her campaign chairman have offered new fodder against her, or have at least diverted attention from Trump’s inflammatory campaign. But the revelations, to date, have done more to confirm the suspicions of those on the far left than those on the far right: Namely, that she is a cautious, at times plotting, left-of-center Democrat given more to pragmatism than purity.
维基解密泄露了黑客盗取的克林顿私人演讲及其竞选班子主席的电子邮件，共和党人很高兴地看到，这些泄露为反对她提供了新材料，或至少将注意力转移到了特朗普的煽动性竞选以外的事情上。但到目前为止，这些泄露更多地证实了那些极左派人士、而不是极右派人士的怀疑：也就是说，克林顿是一个谨慎的、有时搞点暗中策划的左偏中民主党人，更倾向于实用主义，而不是党性纯洁。
Now that she is comfortably ahead in blue America and making incursions into conservative redoubts like Arizona and Utah, will Clinton flash some of the centrism she has displayed in private? She is unlikely, for example, to suddenly reverse course on her opposition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership or pledge to enact Simpson-Bowles, the moribund deficit-reduction plan. But with Trump veering into the realm of the conspiratorial, the debate offers her the chance to reach out to moderates and even some Republicans unwilling to support their nominee but still uneasy about her.
目前，克林顿在蓝色美国遥遥领先，还在进军像亚利桑那州和犹他州这样的保守派堡垒，她会把私下表露出的中间派思想公开一点吗？例如，她不太可能突然改变她对跨太平洋伙伴关系的反对，或承诺让辛普森-鲍尔斯(Simpson-Bowles)成为立法，这个削减赤字的方案已濒于崩溃。但随着特朗普步入阴谋论的浑水，这场辩论为克林顿提供了一个争取温和派、乃至一些共和党人的机会，虽然这些共和党人不愿意支持本党的提名人，但仍对克林顿表示不安。
— Will sexual assault dominate the debate?
— 性侵犯问题是否会主导这场辩论？
After a week’s worth of sexual assault and harassment accusations against Trump, there may be moments that feel more like a courtroom drama than a conventional presidential debate. Trump has never convincingly rebutted the numerous stories from women who say he groped them without consent. On the contrary, he has veered from ridiculing his accusers to asserting flatly, and falsely, that their stories have been debunked.
经过了一周的对特朗普性侵犯和性骚扰的指控之后，可能会在某些时刻让人感到更像是一部法庭剧，而不是传统的总统候选人辩论。特朗普一直未能令人信服地反驳多名女性的说法，她们称他在未得到许可的情况下摸她们。与此相反，他已经改变了嘲笑自己指责者的做法，改为断然声称她们的故事已被揭穿，虽然他的说法没有证据。
Trump struggled in the second debate to address questions raised by an 11-year-old recording in which he boasted of pushing himself on women. He faces a far tougher challenge now, as the allegations against him have grown and polls show the great majority of voters siding with his accusers.
特朗普在第二次辩论中曾设法解释一个11年前的录音所提出的问题，他在录音中吹嘘自己强行触摸妇女。他现在面临着一个更严峻的挑战，因为有关他的指控与日俱增，民意测验显示绝大多数选民站在他的指控者那边。
So far, Clinton has held back from attacking Trump aggressively on this front, allowing other Democrats, like Michelle Obama, to lead the charge. That approach is unlikely to carry through the debate.
克林顿迄今一直未就这个问题对特朗普发起强烈攻击，而是让其他民主党人、比如米歇尔·奥巴马打头阵。这种做法不太可能在这场辩论中坚持下去。