SEOUL, South Korea — It was just what President Park Geun-hye of South Korea didn’t need: blue jokes about blue pills in the Blue House.
韩国首尔——已经麻烦缠身的韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)，此刻最不想见到的就是关于青瓦台购买蓝药丸的黄段子。
Revelations that the president’s office had bought hundreds of doses of Viagra and equivalent drugs have touched off a frenzy of wisecracks, speculation and lurid rumors in South Korea.
总统办公室购买了数百剂万艾可（俗称“伟哥”——编注）和同类药物的消息曝光，在韩国引发了段子、猜测和谣言的热潮。
Ms. Park already had a major corruption scandal on her hands, with mounting calls for her to step down over the actions of a longtime friend. Now, she has to explain why her staff stocked up on drugs commonly prescribed for erectile dysfunction.
朴槿惠已经卷入了一起亲信腐败的重大丑闻，要求她下台的呼声越来越高。现在，她必须解释为什么工作人员储备了一些通常用来治疗勃起功能障碍的药物。
Kim Sang-hee, an opposition lawmaker, raised the issue on Wednesday by citing medical insurance data showing that the Blue House, as the president’s office is known, had bought 60 Viagra pills and 304 pills of the generic equivalent, sildenafil citrate, last December.
反对派议员金相熙（Kim Sang-hee，音）援引医疗保险数据称，总统官邸青瓦台去年12月购买了60粒万艾可和304粒同类通用名药柠檬酸西地那非。
A presidential spokesman, Jung Youn-kuk, insisted that there was a perfectly innocent explanation. Besides the more common bedroom use, the pills are sometimes taken to prevent or treat altitude sickness. Mr. Jung said doctors had prescribed them for presidential aides to have handy for that purpose during Ms. Park’s official visit in May to Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda. (Those countries’ capitals are all well above sea level — Addis Ababa’s elevation is 7,700 feet.) As it happened, Mr. Jung said, none of the pills were used on the trip.
总统发言人郑然国(Jung Youn-kuk)坚称这件事完全可以解释。万艾可虽然比较常用于房事，但常常也用来预防或治疗高原病。郑然国说，总统5月到埃塞俄比亚、肯尼亚和乌干达正式访问时，医生给总统的助手开了这种药备用。（这些国家的首都海拔比较高——亚的斯亚贝巴的海拔是7700英尺，约合2400米。）郑然国说，结果这些药都没有用上。
Ms. Park has never married, and her private life has been the subject of scrutiny for years. After the ferry Sewol sank in 2014, killing more than 300 people, rumors spread that she had been in a tryst with a boyfriend for seven hours, making her government slow to respond effectively to the disaster. Her office vehemently denied the rumor, and a Japanese journalist who reported it was indicted on defamation charges. (He was later acquitted.)
朴槿惠从来没有结过婚，她的私人生活多年来一直都是人们瞩目的话题。2014年“世越号”沉没，造成300多人遇难之后，有传言说她和男朋友幽会了七个小时，所以她的政府对这起灾难反应相当迟缓。她的办公室极力否认这个传言，一名报道传言的日本记者被控犯有诽谤罪（后来被无罪释放）。
Other items on the Blue House’s pharmacy tab also drew unwelcome attention on Wednesday, including large volumes of nutritional compounds that wealthy South Korean women have often injected to fight fatigue, aging and skin problems. The presidential office said those items were for staff members, but that did not stop online commentators from accusing Ms. Park of squandering tax money on skin care.
本周三，青瓦台购药信息中的其他内容也带来了麻烦，其中包括大量营养化合物，富裕的韩国女性经常注射它们来抵御疲劳、老化和皮肤问题。总统办公室说，这些药物是为工作人员购置的，但这并没有阻止网上评论员指责朴槿惠把纳税人的钱用在护肤上。
None of this was much help to Ms. Park, who has been struggling with the corruption scandal for weeks. It centers on a woman named Choi Soon-sil, a close friend of Ms. Park for decades, who has been arrested on charges of leveraging her influence to extort millions of dollars from businesses.
数周来，朴槿惠一直纠缠在一桩腐败丑闻中，现在发生的这些事情对她也没什么好处。丑闻的主角崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)是朴槿惠几十年来的密友，她利用总统的影响力，从一些企业敲诈了数以百万计的资金，已经遭到逮捕。
Prosecutors said on Sunday that Ms. Park was an accomplice in the alleged extortion, and two former presidential aides have also been indicted on charges of aiding Ms. Choi and providing her with confidential government documents.
检察官上周日表示，朴槿惠是这种勒索行为的同谋。而朴槿惠的两名前助手也因为帮助崔顺实，向她提供机密政府文件而被起诉。
Frustrated by Ms. Park’s refusal to step down, opposition lawmakers are trying to impeach her.
由于朴槿惠拒绝下台，反对派议员正在尝试弹劾她。