WASHINGTON — Another Trump is on her way to the capital.
华盛顿——特朗普家的另一个成员正在前往首都。
Tiffany Trump, the 23-year-old daughter of President Trump and Marla Maples, the second of his three wives, plans to attend law school at Georgetown University, a school official said on Monday.
乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的一名行政管理人员周一表示，特朗普总统和玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)23岁的女儿蒂芙尼·特朗普(Tiffany Trump)计划就读该校的法学院。梅普尔斯是特朗普三位妻子中的第二位。
“She has taken all the steps to enroll,” said Mimi Koumanelis, a spokeswoman for the school.
“她已经完成了所有的注册步骤，”学校发言人米米·库马内利斯(Mimi Koumanelis)说。
Ms. Trump’s decision ended monthslong speculation about where she would choose to go to school, and on what merit. Would it be Yale, the top-ranked law school in the country, according to U.S. News and World Report? (It is unclear if she applied there.) Or would it be Harvard, Columbia or New York University, all top-flight schools where Ms. Trump was reported to have visited last fall?
蒂芙尼的决定给几个月来的猜测画上了句号。人们曾猜她会去哪里上学，以及凭什么去那里。她会去《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News and World Report)法学院排行榜上全美第一的耶鲁大学法学院吗（现在还不清楚她是否提出过申请）？还是哈佛、哥伦比亚或纽约大学呢？据说去年秋天她曾参观过这些顶尖学府。
In the end, it seems that Ms. Trump kept it in the family.
最后，蒂芙尼似乎选择了家人熟悉的学校。
Eric Trump, Mr. Trump’s second son, has a degree from Georgetown, where the law school is ranked 15th, and is a member of the school’s Business, Society and Public Policy Initiative advisory board. Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, who serves in the White House as assistant to the president, attended Georgetown for two years before transferring to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
特朗普的次子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)拥有乔治城大学的学位，也是该校商业、社会和公共政策倡议咨询委员会的成员，该校的法学院排在全美第15名。目前在白宫担任总统助手的特朗普长女伊万卡也曾在乔治城大学读过两年，然后去了宾夕法尼亚大学读沃顿商学院。
Ms. Trump’s appearance in Washington will most likely subject her to a newfound degree of scrutiny, one at odds with the lower profile she has kept over the years. According to reports, Ms. Trump had difficulty adjusting to life on the campaign trail with her family, and her mother suggested that her relationship with Mr. Trump had been more distant compared with those of her siblings.
蒂芙尼在华盛顿出现，很可能令她进一步暴露于众目睽睽之下，这与她多年来一直保持低调的形象不一致。据报道，蒂芙尼在竞选期间曾经难以调适、跟上家人的脚步，她母亲暗示说，比其他兄弟姐妹相比，她与特朗普的关系更为疏远。
But since her father moved into the White House, she has seemed to quietly join the fold: Her carefully curated Instagram account shows only a sporadic presence in Washington, but her appearances are at family-focused events, including the White House Easter Egg Roll. Last week, Ms. Trump congratulated her sister on the publication of her book.
但是，自从她父亲入主白宫之后，她似乎也悄然加入了他们：在她精心策划的Instagram帐号上，可以看到她只是偶尔出现在华盛顿，但都是参加以家庭为重心的活动，包括白宫复活节彩蛋比赛。上周，蒂芙尼还祝贺姐姐新作出版。
On Monday, Eric Trump told The Daily Mail, the first outlet to report the news, that his younger sister was “going to love” her time in Washington.
星期一，埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)告诉《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)，蒂芙尼“会爱上”在华盛顿的日子。《每日邮报》是第一个报道该消息的媒体。
“Georgetown is an incredible school with great significance to me personally,” he added in an email relayed by a spokeswoman to The New York Times. “I am so proud of Tiffany and all that she has accomplished. She is an amazing young woman, a terrific sister and has a remarkable future ahead of her.”
“乔治城是一所非常棒的学校，对我个人来说非常重要。我为蒂芙尼感到骄傲，为她的成就感到骄傲。她是一个了不起的姑娘，一个了不起的妹妹，在她面前有一个了不起的未来。”他在一封电邮中说。一名发言人把这封电邮转发给了《纽约时报》。
Last fall, President Trump praised his youngest daughter’s work ethic. “She was always a great student and a very popular person no matter where she went,” he wrote in an email to The New York Times.
去年秋天，特朗普总统赞扬小女儿很有职业道德。“无论去哪里，她永远是一个好学生，一个非常受欢迎的人，”他在一封发给《纽约时报》的电子邮件中说。
Shortly after the news was announced on Monday, Twitter accounts and Facebook groups of students at the school began lighting up.
就在周一这个消息宣布之后不久，该校的Twitter帐号和Facebook小组的学生开始热烈讨论起来。
Brenna Gautam, a first-year law student, said that security was among the primary concerns raised by her fellow classmates on Monday on a private Facebook group for Georgetown law students: “How will this impact our peers who may be personally threatened by her father’s policies?” Ms. Gautam asked, referring to gay and transgender students, and students who are minorities.
布鲁娜·格塔姆(Brenna Gautam)是法学院一年级的学生，她表示，在乔治城法律专业学生的一个私密Facebook小组中，她的同班同学表达了一些主要的担忧，其中一个是安全问题：“这会给我们当中那些可能面临着她父亲政策威胁的同学带来怎样的冲击？”格塔姆问道，她指的是同性恋学生、跨性别学生，以及少数族裔学生。
“There’s also been discussion surrounding which professors she may have,” Ms. Gautam said, “and, of course, some joking about whether graduation will now be held in Mar-a-Lago.”
“还有一些讨论的主题是她的教授可能是哪些人，”格塔姆说。“当然，还有一些人开玩笑说，毕业典礼是否会在马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)举行。”