WASHINGTON — The first time Barack Obama visited Kenya, the land of his father, he was hoping to fill “a great emptiness” he felt inside, to figure out who he was and where he fit in the world.
华盛顿——第一次访问父亲的祖国肯尼亚时，奥巴马想要填补自己内心“一个巨大的空缺”，他想搞清楚自己是谁，想找到自己在这个世界上的位置。
He was met at the airport by a half sister and an aunt. “Welcome home,” the aunt told him. The three squeezed into an old Volkswagen Beetle, whose muffler fell off during the drive into Nairobi. As the aunt got out to go to work, she admonished Mr. Obama not to “get lost again.”
当时在机场迎接他的，是一个同父异母的妹妹和一个姑姑。“欢迎回家，”姑姑对他说。然后三个人挤进了一辆老旧的大众甲壳虫车。在开往内罗毕的途中，这辆车的消音器掉了下来。姑姑出门去工作时告诫奥巴马，别“又走丢了”。
Twenty-eight years later, he leaves on Thursday to return to Kenya as the president of the United States with an entourage of hundreds and a long motorcade that includes an armored car with a working muffler. Any question of where he fits in the world has long since been answered. But how Kenya fits into his own identity remains one of the enduring questions of his presidency.
二十八年后的本周四，他以美国总统的身份出发，重回肯尼亚，随行人员有数百人，长长的迎宾车队里包括一辆消音器正常工作的装甲车。有关他在这个世界上的位置的任何疑问，都早已找到答案。但肯尼亚在他身份认同中扮演什么角色，依然是他总统任期内一个未决的问题。
Through more than six years in office for Mr. Obama, Kenya has been a complicated part of his political persona. Known for a youthful memoir exploring his Kenyan roots, Mr. Obama has been celebrated as a son of Africa who reached the pinnacle of power. But he also found himself besieged by a conspiracy theory that he had actually been born in Kenya and was therefore ineligible to be president — a theory he felt compelled to dispel by marching into the White House briefing room in 2011 with his birth certificate from Hawaii.
在他六年多的总统任期里，肯尼亚一直是奥巴马的政治形象中比较复杂的一部分。他在青年时代发表的回忆录中探索了自己的肯尼亚根源，一直被奉为抵达权力巅峰的非洲之子。但他也发现自己被一种阴谋论困扰着——有人认为他真实的出生地是肯尼亚，所以并没有资格当美国总统。他感觉自己必须消除这种观念，于是2011年在白宫新闻发布厅对外展示了自己的出生证明，显示出生地是夏威夷。
Mr. Obama considered the “birther” movement, now largely defunct, a distraction and a cynical ploy by opponents like Donald J. Trump, but he stayed away from Kenya until now, unwilling to provoke the obvious political circus that would have ensued. During his first term, he spent about 24 hours in sub-Saharan Africa, and on the other side of the continent from his father’s home. Some critics said that the first president with African roots was doing less for the continent than the white president he succeeded.
奥巴马认为，如今已经平息的“质疑出生地”运动，是唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)等反对派人士采取的分散注意力和质疑的把戏，但直到此行之前，还是选择了避开肯尼亚，避免挑起显然会因之而来的政治游戏。在第一个总统任期内，他出现在撒哈拉以南非洲地区和远离肯尼亚的非洲另一端的时间大约有24个小时。一些批评者表示，美国第一位有非洲血统的总统为那片大陆所做的事，比他的前任白人总统还要少。
With re-election behind him, Mr. Obama has shown renewed interest in Africa. He hosted a summit meeting in Washington for African leaders last year and just pushed a renewal of an African trade preference program through Congress.
再次当选之后，奥巴马重新对非洲表现出兴趣。去年，他在华盛顿举行了美非领导人峰会。最近又刚刚在国会通过了一项法案，续延一项到期的非洲贸易优惠计划。
This week’s visit to Kenya, followed by a stop in Ethiopia, will be his fourth trip to sub-Saharan Africa as president, more than any of his predecessors made. He will be the first sitting president to visit either Kenya or Ethiopia, and he hopes to reinforce efforts to bring electricity, security and democracy to Africa.
结束肯尼亚的访问之后，奥巴马还将前往埃塞俄比亚，这将是他第四次以总统身份访问撒哈拉以南非洲地区，比任何一位前任美国总统都多。他还将成为第一位以现任总统身份访问肯尼亚或埃塞俄比亚的美国总统。他希望可以进一步加强能够给非洲带来电力、安全和民主的努力。
“President Obama’s record on Africa will not only match that of his predecessors but, I will predict with confidence, will exceed it,” Susan E. Rice, his national security adviser, said Wednesday, citing his Power Africa electrification program and his Feed the Future effort to make sure Africans have enough to eat.
“奥巴马总统的非洲业绩非但不会比前任总统差，相反我满怀信心地预测，他还会超越前任，”他的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)周三表示。她列举了奥巴马的“电力非洲”(Power Africa)计划和致力于保障非洲人民有充足食物的“未来粮食保障”(Feed the Future)计划。
The trip will have its trials dealing with two countries that have not been models of democracy lately. In Kenya, he will meet with President Uhuru Kenyatta, who had been charged with crimes against humanity for instigating ethnic violence until the case was dropped last December. In Ethiopia, he will meet with Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn just a month after the governing party and its allies won 100 percent of the seats in Parliament.
这次出访，奥巴马将和两个国家首次打交道，它们最近的表现都称不上民主典范。在肯尼亚，他将会见乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)总统，后者之前因煽动种族暴力而被起诉，这一案件直到去年12月才被撤销。在埃塞俄比亚，他将会见海尔马里亚姆·德萨莱尼(Hailemariam Desalegn)总理，后者领导的执政党及其同盟刚刚于一个月前在国会赢得了百分之百的席位。
His initiatives have had their own troubles. Power Africa, which Mr. Obama kicked off during a 2013 visit to the continent, has so far not delivered the kind of electricity it promised. Ms. Rice said the program had been slow to get off the ground but was now “building up strength and capacity,” adding, “This is going to take time.”
奥巴马所发起的非洲计划也存在各自的问题。2013年访问非洲时，他开启了“电力非洲”计划，目前该计划还没有实现它之前预定的电力覆盖目标。赖斯表示，这项计划起步较慢，但它“正在积蓄力量”，并说这“需要一定的时间”。
But as much as the policy issues will present challenges for the traveling president, so will the emotional and symbolic ones.
和这些政策问题一样，奥巴马此行还要面对一些感情和象征性问题的挑战。
“Obviously, Kenya holds a special place for him, and it was central to that first book and, I think, central to his self-exploration,” said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s former White House senior adviser. “And I think he also knows what he represents there.”
“显然，肯尼亚对他来说有特别的意义，那是他的第一本书讨论的中心话题。而且，我觉得，肯尼亚在他的自我探索中也扮演了非常重要的角色，”前白宫高级顾问大卫·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)说。“我认为，他也知道自己在肯尼亚代表着什么。”
Bill Burton, another former aide, said Kenya had shaped Mr. Obama’s identity as an African-American. “It’s obvious if you read his books, if you listen to what he’s said about his own biography, Kenya plays a very big role in how he thinks about the world and how he thinks about his relationship with other Americans,” Mr. Burton said.
另一位前助手比尔·伯顿(Bill Burton)表示，肯尼亚决定了奥巴马作为一名非裔美国人的身份。“如果你读了他的书，聆听过他对自己的传记的看法，就很容易明白，肯尼亚对于他如何看待世界、如何看待他与其他美国人的关系，产生了非常大的影响，”伯顿说道。
In his first book, “Dreams From My Father,” Mr. Obama described his upbringing in Hawaii as the son of a black university student from Kenya, Barack Obama Sr., and a white anthropologist originally from Kansas, Stanley Ann Dunham. He never really knew his father, whom he met only once, when he was 10, but he felt a connection that eventually took him to Kenya in 1987.
在他的第一本书《我父亲的梦想》(Dreams From My Father)中，奥巴马描述了他在夏威夷的成长经历，父亲是来自肯尼亚的黑人大学生老贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama Sr.)，母亲是来自美国堪萨斯州的白人人类学家斯坦利·安·邓纳姆(Stanley Ann Dunham)。奥巴马从没真正认识过自己的父亲，只在自己十岁的时候见过他一面，但他感到与他有一种联系，这种联系最终促使他在1987年去了肯尼亚。
He spent several weeks sleeping on the living room sofa of his half sister, Auma, who taught at the University of Nairobi, and meeting the many relatives of the various wings of the family. He traveled to his father’s home village — “there was a goat in my lap,” he recalled — and met his grandfather’s last wife, known as Mama Sarah, whom he called Granny even though there was no blood tie. In the book, he wrote that for the first time, he enjoyed “the comfort, the firmness of identity.”
他在肯尼亚待了好几周，睡在同父异母的姐姐、在内罗毕大学教书的奥玛(Auma)家的客厅沙发上，见到了来自家族各个支脉的很多亲戚。他还拜访了父亲的家乡——他回忆当时“怀里抱着一只山羊”的情景——见到了祖父的最后一任妻子，人称萨拉妈妈(Mama Sarah)，奥巴马叫他奶奶，尽管他们之间并没有血缘关系。他在书中写到自己第一次感到“身份认同上的自在与确定”。
But it was not as simple as that, according to David Maraniss, author of “Barack Obama: The Story,” a biography of the president as a youth that ends with the trip to Kenya. Mr. Obama learned about the divisions in his own family, among the Luo and Kikuyu tribes and between Africans and Asians.
但是，据《贝拉克·奥巴马：他的故事》一书的作者大卫·马拉尼斯(David Maraniss)讲，情况并没有那么简单。这本传记纪录了年轻奥巴马的经历，时间截止到他的肯尼亚之旅。当时的奥巴马了解到，自己的家族内部存在着卢奥族(Luo)和基库尤族(Kikuyu tribes)、非裔和亚裔之间的分歧。
“His young life had been a struggle to integrate the disparate parts of his history in a way that would make him feel whole,” Mr. Maraniss wrote. “Instead, his trip offered only more contradictions that were hard to reconcile.”
“年轻时，他一直竭力将自己身世的各个组成部分以某种方式融为一体，好让自己感觉完整，”马拉尼斯写到。“但这趟旅程反倒带来更多矛盾，让他更加难以协调。”
Mr. Obama’s own account of his physical and emotional journey helped define him for many Americans. “I read his first book and was moved by it,” said Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona and chairman of an African subcommittee, who will be among the lawmakers joining the president on the trip. “I don’t think anybody could read it without being moved by it. It would be a great experience to go back.”
奥巴马自己对那趟肯尼亚之旅及其心路历程的描述，在很多美国人心中塑造起了他的形象。“我读了他的第一本书，很受感动，”亚利桑那州共和党参议员、一个非洲小组委员会的主席杰夫·弗莱克(Jeff Flake)说道，他是这次随奥巴出访非洲的议员之一。“我觉得，不管是谁读这本书，都会被它感动。那会是一种值得回顾的非凡体验。”
Mr. Obama returned as a young man and then in 2006 as a relatively new senator. That trip was a preview of what he will encounter this week, with a 12-car motorcade and swarms of people greeting him everywhere he went. He visited Mama Sarah’s village and stopped by his father’s grave, but was surrounded by media hoopla.
除了年轻时的肯尼亚之旅，奥巴马还在2006年当上参议员不多久的时候回去过一次。那次经历是本周的肯尼亚之行的一次预演，当时有12辆车组成迎宾车队，走到哪里都有成片人群欢迎他。他拜访了萨拉妈妈所在的村庄，去墓地祭奠了去世的父亲，凡是所到之处都被喧闹的媒体包围着。
“It’s amazing to think of a president of the United States in this little tiny village with very basic structures,” said Bob Hercules, who accompanied him and made “Senator Obama Goes to Africa,” a documentary about the trip. “It’s just unbelievable.”
“想想一位美国总统来到这个只有最基本设施的小小村庄，那真是不可思议，”鲍勃·赫拉克勒斯(Bob Hercules)说道，他当时陪同奥巴马访问了那里，并据之制作了纪录片《奥巴马议员非洲行》(Senator Obama Goes to Africa)。“简直难以置信。”
As president, there were plenty of diplomatic reasons not to go to Kenya at first, not least the indictment against the country’s president. But there were other reasons, too.
作为总统，他有足够多的外交理由不把肯尼亚作为出访第一站，尤其是考虑到这个国家的总统所受的指控。但也有很多其他原因促使他作出这一决定。
“If you’re asking me, ‘Was there a political discussion as to whether it would be disadvantageous to show up in Kenya when Donald Trump was questioning his citizenship,’ I don’t recall ever having that discussion,” Mr. Axelrod said. “But maybe no one needed to have that discussion.”
“如果你问我，‘在唐纳德·特朗普正质疑他的美国公民身份时出访肯尼亚是否对他不利，问我有没有人就此进行政治方面的讨论，’我不记得自己听到过这类讨论，”阿克塞尔罗德说。“但可能也没人需要这么做。”
With that concern now behind him, Mr. Obama will depart Washington on Thursday night. But he acknowledged last week that it would not be the same as when he first visited as a young man with questions. Given security and logistical concerns, Mr. Obama will not be able to visit his father’s village. Instead, his relatives, including Mama Sarah, will be brought to him in Nairobi.
现在，奥巴马已经撇下这一顾虑，他将于周四晚上从华盛顿出发。但上周他也曾表示，这次旅程跟他第一次去肯尼亚肯定会不一样，那时的他还是一个怀揣着许多问题的年轻人。出于安全和后勤方面的考虑，他这次不会拜访父亲的村庄。不过，他的亲戚们，包括萨拉妈妈，将被送往内罗毕与他团聚。
“It’s obviously something I’m looking forward to,” he said at a news conference. “I’ll be honest with you, visiting Kenya as a private citizen is probably more meaningful to me than visiting as president, because I can actually get outside of a hotel room or a conference center. And just the logistics of visiting a place are always tough as president. But it’s obviously symbolically important.”
“这当然是我所期待的，”他在一个新闻发布会上说道。“我可以很诚实地告诉你，对我来说，以一个普通公民的身份访问肯尼亚，可能比以美国总统身份前往更有意义，因为那样可以不用一直呆在酒店房间和会议中心。作为总统出访一个地方，后勤工作总是很不易，但这么做显然有很重要的象征意义。”