It’s clear that President Trump prefers the pink-hued glamour of his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida to the woodsy charms of Camp David, the secluded traditional presidential retreat in Maryland.
比起马里兰州僻静的总统传统度假地戴维营的林间风情，特朗普总统显然更喜欢他在佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌(Mar-a-Lago)庄园的粉红魅力。
Before winning the presidential election, he told a reporter:
在赢得总统选举前，他告诉记者：
Camp David is very rustic, it’s nice, you’d like it. You know how long you’d like it? For about 30 minutes.
戴维营很朴实，挺好的，你会喜欢的。你知道你能喜欢多久？大概30分钟吧。
Mr. Trump has flown on Air Force One to the club in Palm Beach, Fla., for weekend retreats three times since entering the White House. He is expected to return again this weekend. But he has made zero trips to Camp David, a roughly 30-minute ride on Marine One from the White House.
自入主白宫以来，特朗普已经三次乘坐空军一号飞机到佛罗里达州棕榈滩的这家俱乐部度周末。他预计在本周末返回。不过他一次也没有去过戴维营，乘坐“海军陆战队一号”直升机从白宫去往那里，大约需要30分钟。
At this point in their presidencies, Barack Obama had visited Camp David once, while George W. Bush had traveled there three times. During their two terms in office, Mr. Obama racked up 39 visits over 93 days, and Mr. Bush had 149 visits over 487 days.
在任期进行到这个时候，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)已经去了戴维营一次，而乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)已经去过三次。在两个任期内，奥巴马去过39次，待了93天，布什去了149次，呆了487天。
When it comes to running the country or carving out time for a respite, there are perks and drawbacks to both Mar-a-Lago and Camp David. Here’s how they stack up.
在帮助总统治理国家或抽出时间休息这两方面，马阿拉歌和戴维营各有利弊。下面是它们的对比。
RUSTIC HIDEAWAY VS. OCEANFRONT RESORT
乡间幽静地 VS. 海滨度假村
It comes down to the age-old question: mountains or beach?
归根结底还是那个古老的问题：山还是海滩？
Camp David had a humbling start. Officially a Navy installation, it was built by the Works Progress Administration and opened in 1938 as Camp Hi-Catoctin, 180 acres of public land set aside as a destination for government employees.
戴维营的出身并不起眼。严格来讲它是一处海军设施，由公共事业振兴署(Works Progress Administration)建成，1938年投入使用时名为海-凯托克廷营(Hi-Catoctin Camp)，占地180英亩，是用于政府雇员休假的公共土地。
It was not used by a president until 1942, when Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted to escape the muggy climate of Washington, which had taken a toll on his sinuses. The Secret Service scouted for quick getaways within 100 miles of Washington and settled on the site on Maryland’s Catoctin Mountain. The conversion cost back then: $18,650, according to the National Park Service.
直到1942年它才为总统所用，当时富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)想逃离华盛顿，那里闷热潮湿的气候对他的鼻窦造成了伤害。特勤局在距离华盛顿100英里之内的地方寻找可随时前往的度假地，最终锁定马里兰州凯托克廷山的这个地方。根据国家公园管理局(National Park Service)的数据，改建成本为18650美元。
The weather is about 10 degrees cooler there than in Washington. The property has cabins, trails, a swimming pool and many, many trees. The president sleeps in the Aspen Lodge. Roosevelt took one look at the site and named it Shangri-La.
这里的温度比华盛顿大约低10度。园区内有小木屋、步行道、一个游泳池和许多树木。总统睡在亚斯本小屋(Aspen Lodge)。罗斯福只看了一眼这个地方，就把它命名为香格里拉。
President Harry S. Truman made the camp the official presidential retreat in 1945. But it was President Dwight D. Eisenhower who “made it a household name,” according to the Eisenhower Presidential Library.
1945年，哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)将这里正式定为总统度假地。但是，根据艾森豪威尔总统图书馆的说法，是德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)“给它起了这个家喻户晓的名字。”
Eisenhower renamed it in 1953 in honor of his 5-year-old grandson Dwight David Eisenhower II.
1953年，艾森豪威尔用自己五岁的孙子德怀特·戴维·艾森豪威尔二世(Dwight David Eisenhower II)的名字重新命名了这里。
Successive presidents have used the retreat to write, meet with top advisers, conduct global diplomacy and forge a historic peace accord. In 1974, The New York Times wrote that the property’s seclusion was its main attraction: It “has provided eight American presidents and their families with perhaps the nearest thing to true privacy that they can know during their terms in public life and in the public eye.”
后来的总统们都在这个度假地写作，与高级顾问会面，处理全球外交事务，缔结历史性的和平条约。1974年，《纽约时报》写道，与世隔绝是这里最大的魅力：它“在八位美国总统的任期内，为他们及其家人提供了公共生活和公众眼中可能最接近真正隐私的东西。”
Mar-a-Lago, on the other hand, is a 126-room, sun-dappled Mediterranean estate on 20 acres between the Intracoastal Waterway and the Atlantic Ocean. The property, costing $8 million, opened in 1927 as the palatial winter residence of Marjorie Merriweather Post, the heiress to General Foods.
另一方面，马阿拉歌位于近岸内航道和大西洋之间，占地20英亩，拥有126个房间，是一座阳光明媚的地中海式宅邸。整座物业造价800万美元，于1927年落成，当时是通用食品公司(General Foods)的女继承人马乔里·麦利维泽·波斯特(Marjorie Merriweather Post)的豪华冬季住宅。
On Ms. Post’s death, in 1973, Mar-a-Lago was willed to the federal government and presented as a possible presidential retreat. President Richard M. Nixon visited the Palm Beach estate to scout it out, but the property was returned to the Post Foundation because of concerns it was too costly to maintain ($1 million a year) and too difficult to secure (it was in the flight path to Palm Beach International Airport).
1973年波斯特去世后，马阿拉歌被作为一个可能的总统度假地遗赠给联邦政府。理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)曾到这座位于棕榈滩的庄园考察，但它最终被归还给波斯特基金会，因为维护费用过于昂贵（每年100万美元），安保难度太大（它位于棕榈滩国际机场的航线上）。
The foundation sold the property to Mr. Trump in 1986, who turned it into a private club in 1995. The property includes a tunnel for guests to travel to the beach (and underneath Ocean Boulevard) and a private 100-foot-by-50-foot pool.
1986年，该基金会将这一房产卖给特朗普，后者于1995年将它变成了一个私人俱乐部。如今，这里拥有一个供客人（从海滨大道下方）前往海滩的宾客通道，还有一座长100英尺、宽50英尺的私人泳池。
* Winner for historical significance: Camp David.
• 历史意义胜出：戴维营。
DON’T TRY TO BOOK A CABIN
别指望入住小木屋
We’ll cut to the chase: You are not going to visit Camp David. If you search online for how to get to the site, you’ll most likely stumble upon a site that says cabins can be booked for $1,200 for a weekend. Ignore it. It’s a parody site. The retreat is closed to the public.
我们直说吧：你没法去参观戴维营。如果你在网上搜索怎样到达那里，你很可能会遇到这么一个网站，声称那里的小屋可以预订，一个周末1200美元。别去理它。那是一个开玩笑的戏仿网站。这处度假地不对公众开放。
You may not be able to get within shouting distance of the president at Camp David. But by joining Mar-a-Lago for a $200,000 membership fee, you can get fairly close to President Trump. You may even be able to watch while White House officials, sitting feet from you, work by the light of their cellphones to respond to an international crisis.
你可能无法进入戴维营接近总统，你的喊叫根本不能传进他的耳朵。但是，花费20万美元的会员费，就可以进入马阿拉歌，可以和特朗普相当接近。你甚至可能看到，白宫的官员们就坐在你一英尺开外，在手机的亮光之下，对国际危机做出反应。
And you can take pictures.
而且你还可以拍照。
Clubgoers have witnessed Mr. Trump dining at the club, meeting with the leader of Japan and, most astonishingly, huddling in plain sight with his aides as they grappled with how the United States should respond to a missile test by North Korea.
俱乐部成员目睹了特朗普在俱乐部用晚餐，与日本领导人见面，最令人惊讶的是，他们还看到特朗普和助手们在众目睽睽之下挤在一起，讨论美国对朝鲜导弹测试应有的反应。
If you cannot afford the hefty membership fee, you may know a well-heeled friend who is getting married at Mar-a-Lago and snare an invitation to the celebration.
如果你交不起大笔的会费，你或许有什么在马阿拉歌举办婚礼的富有朋友，并且想法搞到一张邀请函。
* Winner for accessibility: Mar-a-Lago.
• 可接近性胜出：马阿拉歌。
THE PERKS: CROQUET ANYONE?
消遣：有人打槌球吗？
Camp David has a seemingly endless number of options to escape the whirlwind pace of the White House or the noise of protesters in Washington.
要逃避白宫的忙乱节奏或是华盛顿抗议者的声音，戴维营似乎能提供无穷无尽的选项。
Mr. Obama, for instance, shot skeet and water guns, and played pool and basketball.
比如，奥巴马喜欢飞碟射击和水枪，还喜欢打台球和篮球。
Mr. Bush had bike trails installed so that he could ride in private. Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George H.W. Bush played tennis.
布什设了自行车道，好让他不受打扰地骑车。杰拉德·R·福特(Gerald R.Ford)总统和乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W.Bush)总统都打网球。
Mar-a-Lago is not short on amenities: It offers a spa and a salon and popular sports of yesteryear like bridge (classes are offered by “a certified master instructor”) and croquet.
马阿拉歌也不缺乏设施：它提供了一个水疗中心和一个沙龙，有一些昔日的流行项目，比如桥牌（课程由“一名持证大师任指导”）和槌球。
* Winner for perks: Mar-a-Lago edges out Camp David because even if croquet isn’t our speed, the wonders of the Sunshine State are still available.
• 消遣胜出：马阿拉歌略胜戴维营一筹，因为即使槌球不合我们的胃口，还有阳光州的美景。
KEEP OUT: PRESIDENT AT PLAY, OR WORK
请勿打扰：总统在休息，或是在工作
Even before Mr. Trump called Mar-a-Lago the “Southern White House,” the exclusive for-profit club was not easily accessible to the public.
即使在被特朗普称为“南白宫”之前，马阿拉歌这家高档营利性俱乐部也不是公众能轻易接触到的。
It has high walls, which date to when Ms. Post owned the property, and a security gate. Now, when the president visits, roads are blocked off, the Coast Guard patrols the shoreline, a no-fly zone is enacted, and the Secret Service is deployed.
作为波斯特宅邸时，它周围环绕着高墙，有一个安全门。现在，总统来的时候道路会被封锁，海岸警卫队沿着海岸线巡逻，会设置一个禁飞区，特勤局也在周围部署。
Mar-a-Lago neighbors are fretting about the logistics headaches and potential loss of revenue whenever the president visits.
马阿拉歌的邻居们对这些勤务工作感到头痛，也为总统访问时的潜在收入损失感到担忧。
The security at Camp David is fairly straightforward: It is surrounded by maximum-security fencing.
戴维营的安全措施相当直接：它的周围有最高安全级别的围墙。
More important, the site is also known as Naval Support Facility Thurmont, which sums up its level of protection. Members of the Navy and the Marines are permanently stationed there.
更重要的是，这个又名瑟蒙特海军支援设施(Naval Support Facility Thurmont)的地方有着与之相衬的安保规格。这里有永久驻扎的海军和海军陆战队成员。
* Winner for seclusion and security: Camp David.
• 隔离和安全胜出：戴维营。
KHRUSHCHEV SLEPT HERE
赫鲁晓夫曾经睡在这里
Presidents have hosted royalty and many foreign leaders at Camp David, as well as top advisers and cabinet members. Visitors stay in one of the many cabins on the property.
历任总统在戴维营接待过许多皇室成员和外国领导人，以及高级顾问和内阁成员。访客会住在这里的其中一座小屋。
Roosevelt and Winston Churchill met there during World War II. In 1959, at the height of the Cold War, Eisenhower hosted Nikita Khrushchev of the Soviet Union.
二战期间，罗斯福和温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)曾在这里见面。1959年冷战正酣之时，艾森豪威尔在这里接待了苏联的尼基塔·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita Khrushchev)。
In September 1978, through the intervention of President Jimmy Carter, the retreat was the site of a historic peace agreement (the Camp David Accords) between President Anwar Sadat of Egypt and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel.
1978年9月，通过吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)总统的干预，埃及总统安瓦尔·萨达特(Anwar Sadat)和以色列总理梅赫纳姆·贝京(Menachem Begin)在这里达成了两国之间的历史性和平协定（《戴维营协议》）。
Mr. Obama hosted a meeting of the Group of 8 leaders at the retreat in 2012. President Bill Clinton held intense meetings there in 2000 with Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat to try to broker a peace deal. The gathering offered a case study in using body language as a power play: An infamous tussle ensued as the opponents grabbed and stepped around each other and tried not to be the first man to go through a door at Camp David, as if that leader would appear to cede some power.
2012年，奥巴马总统在这里主持了八国集团领导人的会议。2000年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统在这里主持了以色列总理埃胡德·巴拉克(Ehud Barak)和巴勒斯坦领导人亚西尔·阿拉法特(Yasir Arafat)之间的若干会面，试图达成和平协议，会议气氛很紧张。其中有一个以肢体语言作为权术手段的典型案例：两人展开了一场著名的扭打，他们拉扯、躲闪着，竭力不要成为首先进入戴维营大门的那个人，仿佛先进去意味着要放弃一些权力。
Mar-a-Lago was created to entertain, and spares no expense. It was built with stone from Italy, 36,000 antique tiles from Spain and roofing tile from Cuba. The first references to the villa in The Times, in 1927, were about lavish parties and ballets held there.
马阿拉歌是为了娱乐而建造的，完全不惜工本。它使用来自意大利的石头建造，3.6万块古董瓷砖来自西班牙，屋顶上的瓦片来自古巴。《时报》第一次提到这栋别墅是在1927年，是关于那里的豪华聚会和芭蕾演出。
Ms. Post had a feeling that her Palm Beach villa could be used for presidents and foreign leaders. In 1972, after the villa was willed to the government and offered as a “winter White House,” an adviser suggested that foreign leaders could stay at the estate on their first stop in the United States, rest a few days and then continue on to Washington to meet with American leaders.
波斯特觉得她的棕榈滩别墅可以供总统和外国领导人使用。1972年，在别墅被当做“冬日白宫”遗赠给政府之后，一位顾问建议外国领导人可以在这里停留，作为访问美国的第一站，休息几天后继续来到华盛顿会见美国领导人。
When Nixon took a helicopter trip to make an unannounced visit to Mar-a-Lago in July 1974 to “determine its potential,” he wandered the property for exactly 31 minutes. Alas, Ms. Post’s hope of having her estate turned into a presidential retreat did not bear fruit then — at least, until the arrival of Mr. Trump.
1974年7月，尼克松乘坐直升飞机去马阿拉歌进行了一次未公开的探访，以“确定其潜力”，他在这里漫步了整整31分钟。可惜，波斯特把庄园变成总统度假地的愿望没有实现——至少在特朗普到来前没有。
*Winner over all: Mar-a-Lago, for at least the next four years, though Mr. Trump may visit Camp David yet.
• 综合获胜者：马阿拉歌，至少在未来四年是这样，尽管特朗普仍然可能前往戴维营。