KIEV, Ukraine — Security forces fired on masses of antigovernment demonstrators in central Kiev on Thursday in a drastic escalation of the three-month-old Ukraine crisis that left the country reeling from the most lethal violence since Soviet times. The opposition said at least 70 and as many as 100 people were killed in the gunfire.
乌克兰基辅——已持续三个月的乌克兰危机急剧恶化，致使乌克兰深陷前苏联时代以来最致命的暴力活动，在此背景下，安全部队于周四对基辅市中心的大批反政府示威者开了火。反对派表示，死于枪击的至少有70人，最多可达100人。
The shootings punctuated a traumatic day of mayhem that followed a quickly shattered truce, with enraged protesters who paraded dozens of captured police officers through Kiev’s central square. Despite a frenzy of East-West diplomacy and negotiations, there was little sign that tensions were easing.
开枪事件令这个惨痛而混乱的日子雪上加霜，此前，休战协议迅速破裂，愤怒的抗议者押着被俘虏的警察在基辅市中心的广场示众。虽然东西方作出了紧锣密鼓的外交和谈判努力，紧张的局势却没有缓和的迹象。
President Viktor F. Yanukovych lost at least a dozen political allies including the mayor of the capital, who resigned from his governing Party of Regions to protest the bloodshed. Mr. Yanukovych conferred with three foreign ministers from the European Union who had come to press for a compromise solution, practically within sight of the main conflict zone in downtown Kiev. Municipal authorities put the daily death toll at 39.
总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇失去了至少十数名政治盟友，其中包括基辅市长，后者退出了亚努科维奇的执政党地区党(Party of Regions)，以此抗议血腥冲突。亚努科维奇和欧盟的三位外长交换了意见，他们是到乌克兰来促成妥协方案的，实际上，基辅市中心主要的冲突区域就在他们的眼皮底下。市政当局称当日的死亡人数是39人。
There were signs late Thursday that Mr. Yanukovych might be moving closer to compromise, apparently expressing willingness to hold presidential and parliamentary elections this year, as the opposition has demanded. But given the hostility and mutual mistrust on both sides, aggravated by the deadly mayhem that has engulfed central Kiev, the prospects of any agreement seemed remote — particularly now that many of the president’s adversaries say they will settle for nothing less than his immediate resignation.
周四晚间，有迹象显示亚努科维奇可能正在向妥协靠近，他似乎表示，他愿意接受反对派的要求，在今年举行总统选举和议会选举。不过，鉴于双方之间的敌意和猜疑已因席卷基辅市中心的致命混乱而加剧，达成任何协议的前景似乎都遥不可及——尤其是因为总统的许多对手都已表示，总统必须立刻辞职，别的条件他们都不接受。
There were ominous rumors earlier in the day that Mr. Yanukovych, his police ranks stretched thin, might declare a state of emergency, a move that could herald the deployment of the military to help quell the crisis that has engulfed the former Soviet republic of 46 million.
当日早些时候，出现了一些不祥的传言，称警力捉襟见肘的亚努科维奇可能要宣布国家进入紧急状态，此举可能预示着他打算动用军队帮忙，以便在这个拥有4600万人口的前苏维埃共和国平息危机。
But his authority to do so was unclear. Opposition leaders convened a session of Parliament late Thursday, and together with defectors from the pro-government party passed a resolution obliging Interior Ministry troops to return to their barracks and police to their usual service posts, and prohibiting the use of firearms against protesters. It also asserted that only lawmakers, rather than the president, could declare a state of emergency. Perhaps more than these assertions, the vote was significant for signaling Mr. Yanukovych has lost control of a majority in Parliament after the defections from his party.
不过，目前还不清楚他是否有权力这么做。周四晚间，反对派领导人召集了一次议会会议，和亲政府党派的叛离者联手通过了一项决议，责成内政部部队撤回营地，责成警察返回日常工作岗位，并禁止政府对抗议者使用武器。决议还坚称，只有议员，而不是总统，才能宣布紧急状态。此次表决的意义也许不限于这些主张，更重要的是，它表明脱党风潮涌现后，亚努科维奇已经失去了对议会中大多数议员的控制。
Both the United States and the European Union, which made good on pledges to slap punitive sanctions on Ukrainian officials deemed to be responsible for the deadly escalation, warned Mr. Yanukovych to avoid declaring a state of emergency, which could take the country deeper into civil conflict. But short of calling in troops it looked unlikely that Mr. Yanukovych could restore his battered authority and regain control of the capital.
美国和欧盟兑现承诺，对被认定为造成局面致命性升级的责任人实施了惩罚性制裁，两方都警告亚努科维奇不要宣布国家进入紧急状态，那会让国家更深地陷入内斗。不过，亚努科维奇似乎不太可能恢复已遭重创的权威，也不太可能重夺对首都的控制，除非动用军队。
About the only thing that was entirely clear by late Thursday was that protesters had reclaimed and even expanded territory in the center of Kiev that they had lost just two days earlier when police launched a bloody but unsuccessful assault on Independence Square, which has been the focal point of protests since late November.
到周四晚间，唯一清晰无误的事实就是，抗议者已经夺回了他们在基辅市中心的占领区，甚至扩大了占领的范围。两天前，他们刚刚失去对那里的控制，当时警方对独立广场发动了血腥的袭击，但却以失败告终。自去年11月末以来，独立广场一直是抗议活动的中心。
As the protesters, reinforced by swarms of ordinary residents, erected new barricades around their extended protest zone, a woman mounted a stage to appeal for help from foreign governments to prevent the president from declaring a state of emergency.
得到大批普通居民增援的抗议者围绕抗议区竖起了新的路障，与此同时，一名女性登上了一个舞台，呼吁外国政府出手干预，防止总统宣布国家进入紧急状态。
“A state of emergency means the beginning of war,” she said. “We cannot let that happen.”
她说，“紧急状态意味着战争的开始。我们不能让这样的事情发生。”
In the center of Kiev, however, war had basically broken out, with the police having been authorized to use live ammunition. Just after dawn, young men in ski masks opened a breach in their barricade near the stage on Independence Square, ran across a hundred yards of smoldering debris from what had been called a ring of fire and confronted riot police officers who were firing at them with shotguns.
然而，在基辅市中心，战争基本上已经爆发，因为警方已获准使用实弹。天刚破晓，一群戴着滑雪面罩的青年男子把他们在独立广场舞台附近的路障打开一个口子，然后冲过一百码长的阴燃余烬，对抗用霰弹枪朝他们开火的防暴警察。那些余烬是被称作“火圈”的障碍物留下的。
Unidentified snipers opened fire. Sviatoslav Khanenko, a lawmaker and a head of the medical service of the National Resistance Headquarters, said by telephone that about 70 people were killed and more than 1,000 wounded. Some news reports said 100 people were killed.
一些身份不明的狙击手开了枪。全国抵抗总部(National Resistance Headquarters)医疗负责人、议员斯维亚托斯拉夫·哈年科(Sviatoslav Khanenko)在电话里说，“约有70人被杀，1000多人受伤。部分新闻报道称，共有100人被杀。”
The death tolls could not be corroborated. But even at the lower casualty numbers reported by Kiev’s municipal health authorities, Thursday was the most lethal day in Ukraine since independence from the former Soviet Union more than 22 years ago.
死亡人数无法得到核实。不过，即便是按照基辅市卫生当局公布的较低伤亡人数，周四也是乌克兰自22年前脱离前苏联以来死伤人数最多的一天。
By noon, 11 corpses had been laid out in a makeshift outdoor morgue under a Coca-Cola umbrella at the end of Independence Square. Other bodies were taken elsewhere.
人们在独立广场尽头的可口可乐阳伞下临时搭建了一间室外停尸房。到当日中午，那里已经安放了11具尸体。其余尸体被送到了别处。
The demonstrators captured more than 60 policemen, who were marched, dazed and bloodied, toward the center of the square through a crowd of men who heckled and shoved them. A Ukrainian Orthodox priest accompanied the officers, pleading with their captors not to hurt them.
示威者抓获了60多名警察，他们满身鲜血，神色茫然地被押往独立广场中心，一路上，众人对他们推推搡搡，激烈诘问。一名乌克兰东正教神父陪伴在被捕警察左右，请求人们不要伤害这些俘虏。
“People are very angry but we must not act like Yanukovych does,” said the priest, Nikolai Givailo. Others said later that the officers were taken to a hotel and released. But the mere act of parading police officers through the streets signaled a new level of defiance and rage by the Kiev protesters.
名为尼古拉·吉瓦洛(Nikolai Givailo)的这位神父说，“人们非常愤怒，但我们一定不能像亚努科维奇那样。”其他一些人后来表示，警察被带到了一个酒店，然后获释。然而，押着警察游街示众的行为，本身就说明基辅抗议者的反抗和愤怒已经达到了新的强度。
In another sign of trouble for Mr. Yanukovych, the mayor of Kiev, Volodymyr Makeyenko, announced in a video statement that he could no longer remain in the governing party because ordinary people were dying. He noted bitterly that “no oligarch has died, no politician has died.”
还有一个迹象也表明亚努科维奇遇到了麻烦，基辅市长弗拉基米尔 ·马克耶诺科(Volodymyr Makeyenko)在一段视频中宣布，由于普通民众不断死亡，他将退出执政党。他尖刻地指出，“没有哪个寡头死亡，也没有哪个政治人物死亡。”
With Mr. Yanukovych’s allies in Parliament still resisting changes to the Ukrainian Constitution demanded by the opposition that would reduce the powers of the president, there were several intense talks underway in Kiev in hopes of ending the violence.
亚努科维奇在议会下院的盟友仍然拒绝反对派修改乌克兰宪法的要求，因为这会削弱总统的权力。与此同时，一些紧张的谈判正在基辅进行，旨在结束暴力冲突。
The foreign ministers of Germany, Poland and France met with Mr. Yanukovych for more than four hours on Thursday, and then announced that they would extend their stay in Kiev overnight to continue their discussions.
周四，德国、波兰及法国外长与亚努科维奇举行了四个多小时的会晤。之后，他们宣布他们当晚将留在基辅，继续进行磋商。
“Ahead of us is a night of heavy negotiations,” Marcin Wojciechowski, a spokesman for the Polish foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, wrote on Twitter.
波兰外长拉多斯瓦夫•西科尔斯基(Radoslaw Sikorski)的发言人在Twitter上写道，“等着我们的是一夜的沉重谈判。”
After the initial round of meetings, the Polish prime minister, Donald Tusk, said at a news conference in Warsaw that there were some indications that Mr. Yanukovych would be willing to schedule earlier parliamentary and presidential elections, something he had previously resisted. The presidential elections are currently scheduled for March 2015.
前述首轮会晤结束之后，波兰总理唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)在华沙的新闻发布会上表示，有迹象表明，亚努科维奇愿意提早进行议会及总统选举，虽然他之前拒绝了这些要求。目前，乌克兰的总统选举定于2015年3月进行。
But Vitali Klitschko, a Ukrainian opposition leader, expressed deep skepticism after his own subsequent meeting with the European Union emissaries in Kiev. He was quoted by Agence France-Presse as saying there was “no deal yet.”
然而，乌克兰反对派领导人维塔利·克利奇科(Vitali Klitschko)随后与欧盟特使在基辅举行了会晤，会议结束后，他表达了深度的怀疑。法新社(Agence France-Presse)援引他的话称，“尚未达成协议”。
With demonstrators surging toward and then past police lines, what had been a narrowly circumscribed protest area ringed by police officers expanded rapidly and, amid a continual racket of gunshots, reached up a hill overlooking the square to the edge of the main government district of the capital.
示威者不断涌向并跨越警戒线，警方划定的狭窄抗议区域随之迅速扩展。在持续不断的枪声中，示威者登上了首都主要政府区域边缘的一座俯瞰广场的小山。
The fighting left bodies lined up on a sidewalk, and makeshift clinics crammed with the wounded, and sirens and gunfire ringing through the center of the city.
冲突致使人行道上布满尸体，临时诊所里挤满伤员，警号声和枪声响彻了城市中心。
“There will be many dead today,” said Anatoly Volk, 38, one of the demonstrators. He was watching stretchers carry dead and wounded men down a stairway slick with mud near the Hotel Ukraina.
38岁的示威者阿纳托利·沃尔克(Anatoly Volk)说，“今天会有很多人死亡。”说话时他正在乌克兰大酒店(Hotel Ukraina)附近，看着人们将载有伤亡人员的担架抬下满是稀泥的台阶。
Mr. Volk said the protesters had decided to try to retake the square because they believed the truce announced around midnight had been a ruse. The young men in ski masks who led the push, he said, believed it was a stalling maneuver by Mr. Yanukovych to buy time to deploy troops in the capital because the authorities decided the civilian police had insufficient forces to clear the square.
沃尔克表示，抗议者之所以决定设法夺回广场，是因为他们认为午夜宣布的休战是一个计谋。他表示，那些戴着滑雪面罩带领抗议人群向前推进的年轻人认为，这是亚努科维奇的缓兵之计，目的是争取时间在首都部署军队，因为当局断定普通警察警力不足，无法完成清场任务。
“A truce means real negotiations,” Mr. Volk said. “They are just delaying to make time to bring in more troops. They didn’t have the forces to storm us last night. So we are expanding our barricades to where they were before. We are restoring what we had.”
“休战应该意味着真正的谈判，”沃尔克说。“他们只是在拖延，以便有时间部署更多部队。昨晚，他们无力攻击我们，因此，我们要将路障扩大至原来的范围。我们要收复失地。”
Supporters of the opposition earlier this week overran an Interior Ministry garrison near of Lviv and captured its armory; it was unclear whether any of the commandeered weapons were being used on Thursday in the fighting in the capital.
本周早些时候，反对派支持者占领了利沃夫附近的一座内政部要塞，并控制了那里的军械库。目前尚不清楚，被夺走的武器是否被用到了周四的基辅冲突之中。
The part of the square back under the control of the protesters after the fighting Thursday was an otherworldly panorama of soot-smeared paving stones, debris and coils of smoldering wire from burned tires.
周四冲突之后，已被抗议者重新控制的广场区域呈现出一片怪异惊人的景象，到处都是烧黑的铺路石、瓦砾和着火轮胎留下的冒烟线圈。
From the stage on the square, a speaker yelled “Glory to Ukraine!” and the crowd yelled back “Glory to its heroes!” That echoed the slogans of the World War II-era Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, guerrilla armies that battled the Nazis, Poles and Soviets in an ultimately futile quest for an independent Ukraine.
广场舞台上的扬声器传出了“荣耀属于乌克兰！”的呐喊，民众则喊道，“荣耀属于英雄！”这与二战时期乌克兰民族主义者组织(Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists)和乌克兰起义军(Ukrainian Insurgent Army)的口号相同。为了寻求乌克兰独立，这些游击队曾与纳粹、波兰人和苏联人展开斗争，但最终无果。
The protests began in November when Mr. Yanukovych rejected a trade and economic agreement with the European Union and turned instead to Russia for financial aid.
抗议活动始于去年11月，当时亚努科维奇拒绝与欧盟签署贸易及经济协议，转而寻求俄罗斯的经济援助。
In a televised address to the nation on Wednesday, Mr. Yanukovych said opposition leaders had “crossed the limits when they called people to arms” and demanded that they “dissociate themselves from the radical forces that provoke bloodshed.”
周三，亚努科维奇在向全国发表电视讲话时表示，反对派领导人“号召民众拿起武器，行为跨越了界线”，并要求他们“脱离挑起流血冲突的激进势力”。
The protest movement certainly contains extremist elements but, at least in Kiev and many other cities, particularly in the western regions, it has a wide base of public support. After talks with Mr. Yanukovych late Tuesday as violence spun out of control, the opposition leader Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk complained that the president had only a single offer: “that we surrender.”
抗议活动中肯定有一些极端分子，但至少在基辅和很多其他城市，特别是西部地区的城市，抗议活动获得了公众的广泛支持。由于暴力冲突已经失控，反对派领导人阿尔谢尼·P·亚采纽克(Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk)于周二晚间与亚努科维奇举行了谈判。亚采纽克在谈判结束后抱怨称，总统只有一个提议：“叫我们投降。”