NAIROBI, Kenya — I WAS watching the 1 o’clock news at home on Saturday when the Westgate mall story broke. Young, casually dressed men — carrying very sophisticated weapons — had opened fire on shoppers in Nairobi’s luxury mall, killing dozens, and taking an unknown number hostage.
肯尼亚内罗毕——上周六，当韦斯特盖特商场(Westgate)袭击事件爆发时，我正在家看1点钟的新闻。身穿休闲服装的年轻男子端着非常先进的武器，向内罗毕这家豪华商场里的购物者开火，导致数十人身亡，还劫持了人数不明的人质。
Westgate is 10 minutes’ drive in clear traffic from where I live. I listened hard for gunshots. Like most Kenyans, my first instinct was to jump on a bus and go and see for myself — a bad habit we have often been warned against. Instead I stayed glued to the screen, watching CCTV footage — a man grimacing and holding his side, his AK-47 beside him, another taking aim from behind a pillar. The police were running about with their G3 and AK-47 rifles, ducking behind walls and hedges in their short-sleeved blue shirts and no body armor. The terrorists — members of the Shabab, the militant group mostly based in Somalia — were holding them off. They had barricaded the entrance to the mall with corpses.
如果交通畅通，从我住的地方开车去韦斯特盖特只需10分钟。我侧耳细听，想听到枪声。和大部分肯尼亚人一样，我的第一反应是跳上公交车，亲自去现场看看——这是个坏习惯，经常有人警告我们不要这么做。但是相反，我牢牢盯着电视机屏幕，看着闭路电视画面：一名男子表情痛苦，捂着腰部，他的AK-47扔在一边，另一人隐蔽在柱子后面瞄准。身着蓝色短袖衬衫的警察端着G3和AK-47步枪快速跑动，没穿防弹衣的他们不时卧倒，躲在墙和树篱后面。恐怖分子，即大本营主要在索马里的好战组织青年党(Shabab)的成员，正在阻止警察靠近。他们用遇难者的尸体挡住了商场的入口。
It was like a movie, except it involved real people, and a real place I knew.
一切就像电影一样，只不过涉及的是真人，和一个我知道的真实的地方。
I thought of the mall’s bookstore, where I had occasionally gone to sell my books. I have the number of one of the salesmen at the bookstore, and I thought about picking up my cellphone and calling him. But then I realized he might be hiding behind a counter, the boot of one of the gunmen inches from his face. That phone call could be his ticket to hell.
我想到了商场里的书店，我偶尔去那里卖书。我有那家书店的一名销售员的电话号码。我想拿起手机给他打电话，但后来，我意识到，他可能正躲在某个柜台后面，某个持枪者的靴子离他的脸只有几英寸。电话可能会置他于死地。
There is a movie theater on the second floor, and I thought of the people in there hearing what they presumed to be gunshots on the soundtrack, not knowing they were about to meet the real thing.
商场二楼有一家电影院，我想起了那儿的人。他们听到枪声时，可能还以为是电影中的背景声，却不知自己将要面对真正的枪口。
On Sunday morning, I went to the scene, where the siege was still going on.
周日上午，我去到现场，警方仍包围着现场。
I listened to one young man in the crowd of onlookers speak to another in Kiswahili. This is not a job for the police, he said. What they are good at is harassing drunkards to extort bribes. But he expressed his confidence in the army, the Kenya Defense Forces, which had arrived a while after the attack began. It was difficult to tell exactly what was happening.
旁观的人群中，一名年轻男子在用斯瓦西里语和另一个人说话。他说，这不是警察适合的任务。他们擅长的是骚扰醉汉，以便向对方索贿。但他表示出了对肯尼亚国防军(Kenya Defense Forces)的信心。袭击发生不久后，肯尼亚国防军就赶到了。很难确切判断发生了什么事情。
Others in the crowd wondered how the attackers could have planned and mobilized without the intelligence services knowing. They wondered how the young men could have driven through the city armed without being spotted. They felt that more resources were being channeled into protecting politicians and bureaucrats than into taking care of the entire country.
人群中的其他人在纳闷，袭击者是如何在不被情报机构发现的情况下，策划并筹备行动的。他们想知道，这些年轻人如何能全副武装地开车在这座城市穿行却没被看出来。他们觉得，被用来保护政客和官僚的资源，多过用来保护整个国家的资源。
I left the crowd to go to the center of town, where the Red Cross was accepting blood donations. I was surprised by the lines of people waiting patiently for their turn. Quite a number were wearing green shirts: the team color of Gor Mahia, one of the country’s oldest soccer clubs. It had rallied its supporters on radio, TV and social media to donate blood before going to the stadium for a match that afternoon.
我离开人群，来到市中心。在这里，红十字会(Red Cross)正在接受献血。我惊讶地发现，人们正耐心地排队等着献血。相当一部分人穿着绿色衬衣，这是肯尼亚历史最悠久的足球俱乐部之一尔马希亚(Gor Mahia)的颜色。在那天下午进体育场比赛之前，这支球队在电台、电视和社交媒体上号召支持者献血。
But even in tragedy, trust an enterprising Kenyan to find a way to capitalize on the situation. While good citizens were busy donating blood, the con artists were not asleep. Someone pasted posters on the Red Cross tents, asking people to send money to a mobile number for a fake charity that purported to help the victims. It became a cat-and-mouse game, the Red Cross staff pulling down the handwritten posters and the con men — probably using street urchins — putting them up again.
但即便是发生了悲剧，也总会有胆大的肯尼亚人找到“商机”。当善良的民众忙着献血时，骗子也没闲着。有人在红十字会的帐篷上贴了海报，让人们把钱汇到一个手机号。海报谎称，那是一个帮助受害者的慈善组织。这成了一个猫捉老鼠的游戏，红十字会的工作人员把手写的海报撕下来，骗子又把海报贴上去。骗子很可能是让街头顽童帮他们做这件事的。
But these are the contradictions of life in Kenya. If the militants think what they are doing has terrified us, they are wrong. All they have done is bring us closer together. A visit to the blood donation center will confirm this. In those lines, our political differences and the endemic corruption of our bureaucratic systems recede.
但这些正是肯尼亚生活的矛盾。如果武装分子以为他们的行为吓倒了我们，那他们就错了。他们所做的一切只会让我们更紧密地团结起来。去一趟献血中心便能证实这一点。在那些队伍里，我们的政治分歧和官僚体制中蔓延的腐败都褪色了。
Now that the Shabab has struck again, I think every Kenyan has accepted that terrorism is real, and that we have to do something about it. The people I spoke to want their government to think carefully about preventing such attacks in the future. They want resources to be available for this. China can build all the futuristic superhighways it wants to in Kenya, but they won’t amount to much if security is not addressed.
既然青年党又发动了袭击，我想每一个肯尼亚人都认识到，恐怖主义是真实存在的，而且我们必须采取相应的行动。和我交谈过的民众希望政府认真考虑未来如何防止类似的袭击。他们希望为此调拨资源。中国可以在肯尼亚建起所有那些未来世界般的高速公路，但如果安全问题得不到解决，这些高速公路不会有太大意义。
As of Monday night, around 62 people had been killed in the attack, and around 150 injured, and Kenyan forces were still fighting to drive out the last of the militants.
截至周一晚间，约62人在袭击中遇难，大约150人受伤，肯尼亚军警仍在为清剿残余的武装分子而战斗。
These terrorists are fighting a cowardly war, against children out having lunch with their parents. They are no match for the courage of some of the young Kenyans I overheard at the scene of the attack, who were even willing to volunteer to go in and take on the hostage-takers, if the police would allow them. “Those are our people in there. I am ready to die to get them out,” one of the men said to another.
这些恐怖分子在打一场懦夫般的战斗，把和父母一起外出吃饭的孩子作为目标。就勇气而言，他们比不上我在袭击现场遇到的一群肯尼亚年轻人，这些年轻人说，如果警方同意，他们将自愿冲进商场与劫持者决一死战。“我们的同胞在那里面。我愿意为救出他们而死，”其中一名男子对另一个人说。