Are terrorists more of a threat than slippery bathtubs?
恐怖分子的威胁大过湿滑的浴缸吗？
President Obama, er, slipped into hot water when The Atlantic reported that he frequently suggests to his staff that fear of terrorism is overblown, with Americans more likely to die from falls in tubs than from attacks by terrorists.
奥巴马总统遇到了麻烦，因为《大西洋》杂志(The Atlantic)报道，他常常对自己的工作人员表示，对恐怖主义的恐惧被夸大了，美国人因在浴缸中摔倒而死亡的概率比死于恐怖袭击要高。
The timing was awkward, coming right before the Brussels bombings, but Obama is roughly right on his facts: 464 people drowned in America in tubs, sometimes after falls, in 2013, while 17 were killed here by terrorists in 2014 (the most recent years for which I could get figures). Of course, that’s not an argument for relaxing vigilance, for at some point terrorists will graduate from explosives to nuclear, chemical or biological weapons that could be far more devastating than even 9/11. But it is an argument for addressing global challenges a little more rationally.
这个时间很尴尬，就在布鲁塞尔发生爆炸前。但奥巴马大致是对的，他说的是事实：2013年美国有464人在浴缸中溺死，部分是在摔倒之后，而2014年美国仅17人被恐怖分子杀害（这是能取得的最新数据）。当然，这并不是放松警惕的理由，因为在某个时刻，恐怖分子会从炸药过渡到核武器、化学武器或生物武器，它们的摧毁力甚至会超过9·11袭击。但这的确是一个论据，让我们更理性地应对全球挑战。
The basic problem is this: The human brain evolved so that we systematically misjudge risks and how to respond to them.
基本问题是：人类大脑的进化导致我们会对风险和如何应对风险，做出系统性的误判。
Our visceral fear of terrorism has repeatedly led us to adopt policies that are expensive and counterproductive, such as the invasion of Iraq. We have ramped up the intelligence community so much that there are now seven times as many Americans with security clearances (4.5 million) as live in Washington, D.C. Meanwhile, Donald Trump responded to the Brussels attacks with crowd-pleasing calls for torture or barring Muslims that even Republican security experts agree are preposterous.
对恐怖主义出于本能的恐惧，多次促使我们采取代价高昂却适得其反的政策，比如入侵伊拉克。我们大举扩大情报系统的规模，以至于现在有安全情报权限的美国人（450万），是华盛顿特区人口的七倍。与此同时，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)对布鲁塞尔袭击的反应是，呼吁拷问穆斯林或禁止穆斯林入境。即便是共和党的安全专家，也一致认为这很荒谬。
On the same day as the attacks, a paper by James E. Hansen and other climate experts was released arguing that carbon emissions are transforming our world far more quickly than expected, in ways that may inundate coastal cities and cause storms more horrendous than any in modern history. The response? A yawn.
在袭击发生的同一天，詹姆斯·E·汉森(James E. Hansen)和其他一些气候专家发表了一篇论文，称碳排放改变世界的速度比预想的快，涉及的方式可能会淹没沿海城市，并造成比近代历史上任何一次都更可怕的暴风雨。那么有什么反应吗？无。
Hansen is an eminent former NASA scientist, but he’s also an outlier in his timing forecasts, and I’m not qualified to judge whether he’s correct. Yet whatever the disagreement about the timeline, there is scientific consensus that emissions on our watch are transforming our globe for 10,000 years to come. As an important analysis in Nature Climate Change put it, “The next few decades offer a brief window of opportunity to minimize large-scale and potentially catastrophic climate change that will extend longer than the entire history of human civilization thus far.”
汉森是一位著名的前NASA科学家，但他对气候变化的时间预测，也与其他科学家不同。不过我没有资格判断他的对错。但不管对气候变化时间表存在什么争议，科学界的一致意见是：我们制造的排放会在未来1万年里造成地球的转变。正如《自然气候变化》(Nature Climate Change)里一篇重要的分析文章所说，“接下来的几十年为我们提供了一个短暂的机遇，让我们把大规模气候变化的后果降到最低。这种变化可能是灾难性的，其持续的时间，将比迄今为止的整个人类文明史还长。”
To put it another way, this year’s election choices may shape coastlines 10,000 years from now. Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have both mocked the idea of human-caused climate change, with Trump suggesting that it is a hoax invented by China to harm the American economy (he now says that last point was a joke).
换句话说，今年的选举可能会影响1万年后的海岸线。唐纳德·特朗普和特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)都嘲讽了气候变化是人为造成的这个观点，特朗普则表示气候变化是中国制造的一个骗局，为的是损害美国经济（他现在说最后一点是开玩笑）。
The upshot is that Brussels survived this week’s terrorist attacks, but it may not survive climate change (much of the city is less than 100 feet above sea level).
其结果是，布鲁塞尔熬过了本周的恐怖袭击，却可能熬不过气候变化（该市大片地区位于海拔100英尺[约合30米]以下）。
Doesn’t it seem prudent to invest in efforts to avert not only shoe bombers but also the drowning of the world’s low-lying countries?
如此看来，既投资避免鞋子炸弹的行动，也投资防止世界上地势低洼的国家被淹没的行动不是很明智吗？
“We have a political system that engages quickly and powerfully in response to terrorism and security risks,” notes Daniel Esty, an environment expert at Yale Law School, “but doesn’t seem capable of galvanizing action on climate change and other risks that are less visible and spread over time and space.”
“我们的政治制度对恐怖主义和安全风险的反应迅速有力，”耶鲁大学法学院的环境问题专家丹尼尔·埃斯蒂(Daniel Esty)说。“但似乎不能动员人们对不那么明显，影响范围跨越时间和空间的问题采取行动。”
The reason seems to be — how do I put this politely? — that we evolved in ways that leave us irrational.
这其中的原因似乎是——我要怎么说才比较礼貌？——人类进化的方式，导致我们不理性。
When we spot a harmless garter snake, our brains light up with activity as we process the “threat.” That’s because as primate brains evolved over tens of millions of years, poisonous snakes were a threat that we are highly adapted to address, with special brain cells that are extremely sensitive to snake images.
看到一条没有毒的乌梢蛇时，我们的大脑会像应对“威胁”那样兴奋起来。这是因为在灵长目动物大脑长达数千万年的进化过程中，毒蛇是一个我们非常习惯应对的威胁，一些特殊的脑细胞对蛇的形象极其敏感。
Unfortunately, our brains are not well adapted to most of the biggest threats we actually face in the 21st century. Warn us that climate change is destroying our planet, and only a small part of our prefrontal cortex (which worries about the future) will glimmer; then we’ll go back to worrying about snakes or their modern equivalent — terrorists.
遗憾的是，面对我们在21世纪面临的最严峻的威胁，我们的脑细胞还不太适应。听到气候变化正在毁灭地球的警告时，我们的前额叶皮层（负责担忧未来的部分）只有一小部分会发亮；之后又会回去担心蛇，或现代社会类似于蛇的威胁——恐怖分子。
Daniel Gilbert, a professor of psychology at Harvard, says that the kind of threats that we evolved to deal with are those that are imminent rather than gradual, and those that involve a deliberate bad actor, especially one transgressing our moral code. Explaining our lack of concern for global warming, he noted, “Climate change is caused by the burning of fossil fuels, not flags.”
哈佛大学心理学教授丹尼尔·吉尔伯特(Daniel Gilbert)表示，我们在进化过程中习惯应对的，是那种紧迫的威胁，而不是逐步增强的威胁，是那些涉及蓄意作恶的势力，特别是有违道德规范的威胁。在解释我们为什么对全球变暖缺乏担心时，他指出：“气候变化是燃烧化石燃料，而不是烧旗帜造成的。”
In short, our brains are perfectly evolved for the Pleistocene, but are not as well suited for the risks we face today. If only climate change caused sharp increases in snake populations, then we’d be on top of the problem!
简而言之，我们大脑的进化可以完美地适合更新世(Pleistocene)，但并不太适合我们如今面临的风险。只有气候变化导致蛇的数量急剧增加，我们才会把这个问题放在第一位。
Yet even if our brains sometimes mislead us, they also crown us with the capacity to recognize our flaws and rectify mistakes. So maybe we can adjust for our weaknesses in risk assessment — so that we confront the possible destruction of our planet as if it were every bit as ominous and urgent a threat as, say, a passing garter snake.
但即便有时会误导我们，大脑也赋予了我们意识到错误并改正错误的能力。因此，或许我们可以针对自己在风险评估方面的弱点做出调整，这样在面对地球可能毁灭的境况时，我们就会把它当成非常不祥和紧迫的威胁来应对，就像有一条乌梢蛇经过。