LONDON — After days of alarms and embassy lockdowns, the United States and Britain on Tuesday stepped up security precautions in Yemen, with Washington ordering “nonemergency” government personnel to leave and the Foreign Office in London saying it has withdrawn its diplomatic staff in the capital of Sana “due to increased security concerns.”
伦敦——因警讯而关闭多处使馆几天之后，美国和英国于周二加强了在也门的安全防范措施。华盛顿方面要求“非紧急”外交人员撤离也门，英国外交部(Foreign Office)则称，“由于持续增加的安全顾虑”，英国已经撤离了在也门首都萨那的外交工作人员。
The United States also urged its citizens living in Yemen to depart immediately. Neither the American nor British authorities said how many employees were affected by the decision to withdraw personnel.
美国还敦促居住在也门的美国公民立即离开也门。美国当局和英国当局都没有说明，有多少工作人员受到了撤离决定的影响。
The measures came a day after officials in Washington said the United States had intercepted electronic communications in which the head of Al Qaeda ordered the leader of the group’s affiliate in Yemen to carry out an attack as early as this past Sunday.
就在各方采取上述举措的前一天，华盛顿的官员表示，美国之前截获的电子通讯记录显示，基地组织(Al Qaeda)的首领命令其也门分支机构的领导人最早在上周日发动袭击。
Consequently the Obama administration decided last week to close nearly two dozen diplomatic missions and issue a worldwide travel alert.
因此，奥巴马政府上周决定关闭20多个外交使馆，并且发布全球旅游警报。
The British and American warnings were issued several hours after Yemeni military officials said that at least four men, suspected of being Al Qaeda members, were killed in what was described as an American drone strike in the eastern Marib region of Yemen early on Tuesday.
就在英国及美国发布警告的几个小时前，一些也门军官表示，据称，美国于周二早间在也门东部马里卜地区发动了无人机袭击，造成至少四名疑似基地组织成员死亡。
The officials, who spoke in return for anonymity because they were not authorized to brief reporters, said a Yemeni military helicopter was shot down later by militants in the same area, the site of a large oil refinery.
前述军官表示，后来，也门的一架军用直升机在同一区域——一家大型炼油厂所在的地方——被武装分子击落，由于没有获得告知记者的授权，这些官员要求匿名。
The chopper was carrying Brig. Gen. Hussein Saleh Mashaba, who commanded a unit in charge of protecting oil facilities, and six soldiers and four crew members. There were no survivors.
这架直升机搭载着萨利赫·马沙巴准将(Hussein Saleh Mashaba)、六名士兵及四名机组成员，马沙巴准将指挥着一支负责保护石油设施的部队。袭击当中没有幸存者。
President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi paid tribute to the families of the victims and promised that the “terrorists and saboteurs” who carried out the attack would be found and punished.
也门总统阿卜杜勒-拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi)向遇难者属表示悼念，承诺将会找到并惩罚那些实施袭击的“恐怖分子和颠覆分子”。
The State Department warned American citizens of “the high security threat level in Yemen due to terrorist activities and civil unrest.” It urged Americans “to defer travel to Yemen and those U.S. citizens currently living in Yemen to depart immediately.”
美国国务院(State Department)提醒美国公民，“由于恐怖主义活动及国内动乱，也门存在高级别安全威胁。”国务院敦促美国人“推迟前往也门的计划，并敦促目前居住在也门的美国公民立即离开也门”。
In London, a spokesman for the Foreign Office, who sought anonymity under departmental rules, said: “Due to increased security concerns, we have withdrawn all staff today in the British Embassy in Sana, and the embassy will remain closed until staff are able to return. We have closed the embassy because we assess there is an increased threat.” The spokesman declined to discuss the specific nature of the threat.
在伦敦，英国外交部的一名发言人表示，“由于持续增加的安全顾虑，我们已在今天撤走了英国驻萨那大使馆的所有工作人员，大使馆将保持关闭，直到工作人员能够返回为止。我们之所以关闭大使馆，是因为我们确定威胁有所增加。”根据英国外交部的规定，这名发言人要求匿名。他拒绝透露威胁的具体性质。
In its statement, the State Department said that on Aug. 6 it had ordered all nonemergency American government personnel to leave Yemen because of the continued potential for terrorist attacks.
国务院在声明中称，已于8月6日命令美国政府的所有非紧急人员离开也门，因为那里依然有遭到恐怖袭击的可能。
“The security threat level in Yemen is extremely high,” the statement said. “In September 2012, a mob attacked the U.S. Embassy compound. Demonstrations continue to take place in various parts of the country and may quickly escalate and turn violent. U.S. citizens are urged to avoid areas of demonstrations, and to exercise extreme caution if within the vicinity of a demonstration.”
“也门的安全威胁级别非常高，”该声明说，“2012年9月，曾有一群暴徒袭击美国大使馆。该国各地持续出现示威游行，可能很快升级为暴力活动。我们敦促美国公民避开爆发示威游行的地区，如果身处示威活动附近，须保持高度谨慎。”
“Terrorist organizations, including Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, continue to be active throughout Yemen. The U.S. government remains highly concerned about possible attacks on U.S. citizens (whether visiting or residing in Yemen), and U.S. facilities, businesses, and perceived U.S. and Western interests,” it added.
“包括基地组织阿拉伯半岛分支机构在内的恐怖组织依然在也门各地活动。美国政府依然高度关注美国的公民（不管是在也门旅游还是定居）、设施、企业以及已知美国和西方利益的情况，关注它们可能遭遇的袭击，”声明补充说。
Separately, the Pentagon press secretary, George Little, said Tuesday that, in response to a request from the State Department, "early this morning the U.S. Air Force transported personnel out of Sana, Yemen, as part of the reduction” in personnel.
周二，国防部发言人乔治·利特尔(George Little) 在另一场合表示，为了回应国务院的请求，“今天凌晨，美国空军(U.S. Air Force)将人员转移出了也门萨那，这是减少在也门的美国人行动的一部分。”
But, he said, the Defense Department “continues to have personnel on the ground in Yemen to support the U.S. State Department and monitor the security situation.”
但他表示，国防部(Defense Department)“会继续在也门部署地面人员，以便为国务院提供支持，监测安全局势。”
The statements followed what American officials said were intercepted conversations last week between Ayman al-Zawahri, who succeeded Osama bin Laden as the head of Al Qaeda, and Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the head of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, based in Yemen. The intercepts revealed what American intelligence officials and lawmakers have described as one of the most serious plots against American and Western interests since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
美国政府是在上周截获了艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)和纳赛尔·乌海什(Nasser al-Wuhayshi)之间的对话后做出上述声明的。扎瓦赫里继奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之后成为了基地组织的首领，乌海什则是总部位于也门的基地组织阿拉伯半岛分支机构的头目。美国情报官员和议员称，截获的对话揭露了自2001年9月11日恐怖袭击以来针对美国及其他西方国家利益的最重大的袭击阴谋之一。
The security alert spread to some of the United States’ allies in Europe. Britain and France closed their embassies in Yemen and said Monday that they had extended the shutdown until at least Thursday. Washington also announced that its embassy would stay shut until after the end of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, also expected on Thursday in most places. The German mission in Yemen was closed Monday, while Norway shut its embassies in Yemen and Saudi Arabia.
安全警报也扩散到了美国在欧洲的一些盟友当中。英国和法国关闭了在也门的大使馆，并于周一表示，它们已将使馆的关闭期限延长到至少周四。华盛顿方面也宣布大使馆将一直关闭，直到穆斯林斋月结束。在大部分地区，斋月将于周四结束。德国于周一关闭了驻也门的使馆，挪威则关闭了驻也门和沙特阿拉伯的大使馆。
In recent years, the Al Qaeda affiliate in poverty-stricken Yemen has plotted a number of potentially spectacular attacks including an attempt to blow up a trans-Atlantic jet over Detroit on Dec. 25, 2009, using explosives sewn into an attacker’s underwear. Months earlier, an attacker with a bomb surgically implanted in his body tried to kill the Saudi intelligence chief.
近年来，位于饱受贫困之苦的也门的基地组织分支机构策划了大量规模可能会非常大的袭击，其中包括密谋在2009年12月25日用缝在袭击者内衣里的炸药引爆一架飞临底特律上空的飞机，该飞机是从大西洋彼岸飞过来的。数月前，一名通过外科手术将炸弹植入体内的袭击者试图杀死沙特阿拉伯的情报首脑。
American officials have identified the bomb-builder in both cases as Ibrahim al-Asiri, an Al Qeada leader in Yemen whom the Obama administration has been trying to kill as part of a campaign using armed drones. But it was not clear if the reported attack on Tuesday was part of that same operation.
美国官员已经确认，上述两起袭击案中的炸弹制造者都是易卜拉欣·阿西里(Ibrahim al-Asiri)，他是奥巴马政府武装无人机行动试图消灭的也门基地组织头目。但目前尚不清楚，据称于周二发动的无人机袭击是否属于同一行动。