The attacks in Brussels last month were a stark reminder of the terrorists’ resolve, and of our continued vulnerabilities, including in an area of paramount concern: nuclear security.
布鲁塞尔上个月发生的袭击案明确提醒我们，恐怖分子有多大的决心，而我们又有多少薄弱环节。一个最令人担心的薄弱环节是在核安全领域。
The attackers struck an airport and the subway, but some Belgian investigators believe they seemed to have fallen back on those targets because they felt the authorities closing in on them, and that their original plan may have been to strike a nuclear plant. A few months ago, during a raid in the apartment of a suspect linked to the November attacks in Paris, investigators found surveillance footage of a senior Belgian nuclear official. Belgian police are said to have connected two of the Brussels terrorists to that footage.
恐怖分子袭击了机场和地铁，但一些比利时调查人员相信，这只是他们在感觉被当局包围之后的无奈选择，他们的原计划可能是袭击一个核电站。几个月前，在对去年11月巴黎袭击案嫌疑人的公寓进行搜查时，调查人员发现了一段关于比利时高级核官员的监控录像。据说比利时警方已经找到了该录像与两名布鲁塞尔恐怖分子之间的联系。
Security at Belgium’s nuclear sites is notoriously poor. In August 2014, someone — as yet unidentified — drained 65,000 liters of lubricant from the turbine used to produce electricity at the country’s Doel 4 nuclear power plant. No penetration was detected, leading investigators to suspect an inside job.
比利时核设施的安保之差是出了名的。2014年8月，有人将该国杜尔四号(Doel 4)核电厂的涡轮发电机中的6.5万升润滑油排空——此人身份至今不明。由于没有发现入侵痕迹，调查人员怀疑是内部作案。
In 2012, two workers at the same plant reportedly left Belgium to fight in Syria, eventually joining the Islamic State. One of them is believed to have died in Syria; the other was convicted of terrorism-related crimes after returning to Belgium.
据说这个发电厂有两名工人在2012年离开比利时，前往叙利亚作战，最终加入了伊斯兰国。其中一人据信已经在叙利亚丧生；另一人返回比利时后被判定犯有恐怖主义罪行。
Yet still too little is being done to secure nuclear plants. That goes not only for Belgium: Nuclear facilities throughout the world remain vulnerable.
然而，确保核电厂安全的措施仍然奇缺。不仅是比利时，世界各地的核设施一直都有很多漏洞。
During the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington last week, more than 50 leaders announced that significant amounts of highly enriched uranium had been moved from various countries to secure storage sites and that a key nuclear-security treaty would be strengthened. But the improved version of that treaty is inadequate: It doesn’t even call for arming the guards who look after bomb-grade nuclear material.
上周在华盛顿举行的核安全峰会上，50多位领导人宣布，大量的高浓缩铀已经从不同国家转移到了安全储存地点，一个重要的核安全条约将会得到加强。但改进后的条约也仍然不够：它甚至没有要求对看守武器级核材料的警卫进行武装。
Discussions about nuclear terrorism also tend to focus on the risk of terrorists stealing weapons-grade material or making a dirty bomb. But they often overlook the danger of terrorists attacking a nuclear plant in order to set off a Chernobyl- or Fukushima-like disaster.
关于核恐怖主义的讨论，往往集中在恐怖分子窃取武器级材料，或者制造脏弹的可能上。但却往往忽略了恐怖分子袭击核电厂，引发切尔诺贝利或福岛事故那种灾难的风险。
That risk is real, however, and has been known for a while. The master planner of the 9/11 attacks had considered crashing a jumbo jet into a nuclear facility near New York City. A Qaeda training manual lists nuclear plants as among the best targets for spreading fear in the United States.
这并不是异想天开，我们知道这种风险已经有一段时间了。9·11袭击的策划者曾考虑过让大型喷气式客机撞向纽约附近的核设施。基地组织的训练手册上，也把核电厂列为在美国制造恐惧的最佳目标之一。
Striking a nuclear plant or the cooling ponds in which nuclear waste is stored wouldn’t set off a mushroom cloud or kill hundreds of thousands of people. But it would spew large amounts of radiation, spark a mass panic and render vast swaths of land uninhabitable. And it could cause thousands of early deaths from cancer.
袭击核电厂，或者袭击存储核废料的冷却池，不会有蘑菇云升起，也不会导致数以万计的人毙命。但是会带来大量辐射，引发公众恐慌，让大片土地无法居住。此外可以让数以千计的人因癌症而早亡。
More than one in three Americans lives within 50 miles of the 99 nuclear reactors operating in the United States today. There are more than 300 other nuclear reactors producing electricity in 30 other countries.
美国目前有99个核反应堆在运行，超过三分之一的美国人住在距离它们不到50英里的地方。在其他30个国家，还有300多个核反应堆正在发电。
Nuclear plants have built-in safety mechanisms, typically multiple systems that are unlikely to fail simultaneously: If one of them malfunctions, there’s always a backup, the theory goes. But redundancy is effective protection only against accidents, not against terrorists who set out to cause simultaneous system failures. For example, by targeting power and water supplies at the same time, attackers could cause a reactor to melt down or a cooling pond to ignite.
核电厂有自己的安全机制，它通常配备了多个不太可能同时出现故障的系统：理论上说，如果其中一个出了故障，总是会有另外一个顶上。但是这种冗余保护虽然能有效防止事故，却防不了那些力图让所有系统同时出故障的恐怖分子。举个例子，如果有人同时对电源和水源供应发起攻击，就可能导致反应堆融毁，冷却池燃烧。
After the catastrophe at Fukushima, safety measures were bolstered at nuclear plants worldwide: More emergency equipment was put on standby, and measures for venting explosive hydrogen gas were improved. But conspicuous gaps remain in security, even in countries like Japan, India, Pakistan, Russia and the United States, which have major nuclear facilities and also have suffered serious acts of terrorism in the past. President Vladimir V. Putin didn’t even attend last week’s summit.
福岛灾难之后，世界各地的核电站都加强了安全措施：增加了待命的应急设备的数量，改善了排放易爆气体氢气的方式。但安全性上的问题仍然存在，即使在日本、印度、巴基斯坦、俄罗斯和美国等国也是如此，这些国家不仅拥有大型核设施，而且曾经出现过严重的恐怖主义活动。普京就连上周的峰会都没有参加。
The first measure must be to combat complacency. Incredibly, it took the November attacks in Paris for Belgium to finally arm guards at its nuclear power plants. Even more incredibly, it took the Brussels attack last month for Belgian authorities to review the personnel records of employees at nuclear sites — and determine that about a dozen workers should have had their credentials revoked on security grounds.
首先必须去除自满情绪。令人难以置信的是，去年11月巴黎发生袭击事件之后，比利时才最终为其核电站警卫配备武器。更不可思议的是，布鲁塞尔上月遭遇袭击之后，比利时当局才开始审核核电站雇员的人事档案——之后决定出于安全因素考虑，撤销12名员工的任职资格。
At a minimum, armed guards should be required at all sites that hold weapons-grade material or enough low-enriched fuel to cause a major release of radioactivity. And all employees at nuclear plants should be thoroughly vetted before they are employed.
针对持有武器级核材料、或所持浓缩铀量足以导致大规模辐射泄漏的核电站，比利时至少应该配备武装警卫。而核电站的所有员工在被雇佣之前，就该接受彻底的人事审查。
The United States can leverage its leadership in the international commerce of nuclear material and technology to improve security at nuclear plants in other countries. United States law already requires that nuclear material originating in that country be adequately protected when it is exported and while it is abroad.
美国可以利用它在国际核燃料和技术贸易中的领导地位，帮助提高其他国家核电站的安全性。按照美国法律的要求，从该国流出的核燃料，在即将运往海外或已被运至海外的情况下，都必须做充分的防护。
Washington could also require a credible assessment of local terrorist threats, protective measures like arming guards at host facilities, regular exercises simulating armed attacks to test the plants’ security systems, and independent oversight.
华盛顿也可以要求对当地面临的恐怖威胁进行可靠性评估，要求他们在有核设备的地方采取一些防护措施，比如给警卫配备武器，经常进行模拟武装袭击的训练，以测试核电站的安全系统，以及要求对它实施独立的监督。
Current United States laws and regulations prohibit American intelligence and policy officials from sharing classified assessments of terrorists’ intentions and capabilities with many governments. Even Japan, one of the world’s largest producers of nuclear power and a close United States ally, cannot access this information. That must change.
现行法规禁止美国情报和政策官员向不少其他国家的政府透露有关恐怖分子意图和能力的机密评估信息。就连世界上最大的核能发电国之一、美国的亲密盟友日本，也不能获取这些信息。这一点必须有所改变。
And the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, a voluntary network of 86 states and five international organizations, can help build capacity in this area by encouraging its members to share intelligence and best security practices.
由88个国家和五个国际组织自愿达成的打击核恐怖主义全球倡议(Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism)，可以鼓励其成员共享情报信息和最有效的安全防护经验，从而帮助该领域形成防御能力。
Terrorists have their eyes on nuclear plants. So must we.
恐怖分子已经盯上了核电站。我们不能有所懈怠。