LONDON — It was a warm, drizzly Saturday night, and the bars at Borough Market were packed, as usual. Tucked below an offramp of London Bridge, near the banks of the Thames, the market is a warren of narrow streets populated with trendy bars and restaurants, where some people had just finished watching the Champions League soccer final.
伦敦——这是一个温度宜人的周六夜晚，飘着毛毛细雨，博罗市场里的酒吧和平时一样人满为患。这里靠近泰晤士河岸，坐落在伦敦桥的驶出坡道之下，狭窄密集的街道上布满时尚的酒吧和餐厅，有些人刚在酒吧里看完欧冠足球决赛。
Then came the loud bang of a crashing van. Then came three men slashing at patrons with knives. Then screams, sirens, chaos — and, finally, gunfire as arriving police officers shot the three assailants dead.
然后传来撞车的巨响。有三名男子用刀向游客们砍去。之后是尖叫声、警笛声与一片混乱的声音，最后传来枪声，赶到的警察击毙了三名凶手。
“A huge group of people started running towards us,” said Graham Forester, who was in a taxi arriving at Borough Market as the attack unfolded. “One woman screamed at my cabby, telling him to turn around. One guy fell over really badly, while he was running, and I saw a pool of blood on the pavement.
“一大群人跑向我们，”格雷厄姆·福斯特(Graham Forester)说，袭击开始后，他坐着出租车到达博罗市场：“一个女人对着我的出租车司机尖叫，要他掉头。一个人跑着跑着就倒在地上，状况非常糟，我看到人行道上有一大滩血。”
“A group of young girls, dolled up for the night, were running in their high heels, crying.”
“一群晚上出来玩的年轻姑娘打扮得漂漂亮亮，她们穿着高跟鞋，边跑边哭。”
Parts of the area around the market remained cordoned off by police Sunday morning, as authorities continued to investigate the three men who carried out Britain’s third major terrorist attack in less than three months.
周日上午，市场周边部分地区仍被警方封锁，官方仍在调查三名男性凶手，这是不到三个月内英国遭到的第三次重大恐怖袭击事件。
Seven people were killed, with dozens more injured, some in critical condition. Little was known about the assailants, but if their goal was to sow fear by striking a location filled with people, Borough Market and nearby London Bridge were ideal targets.
事件中有七人遇难，数十人受伤，有些人仍处于危急状态。关于袭击者的情况，目前人们几乎一无所知，但如果他们的目标是通过袭击人员密集的地方，以达到散布恐惧的目的，博罗市场和附近的伦敦桥堪称理想目标。
Popular with tourists and teeming with night life, London Bridge is a transport hub, with an adjacent rail and underground station near tourist attractions such as the Shard, the city’s tallest building; Shakespeare’s Globe Theater; and the Tate Modern art gallery.
伦敦桥一带拥有丰富的夜生活，到处都是游客，是一个交通枢纽，在附近的火车站和地铁站下车，可到达伦敦最高建筑碎片大厦(Shard)、莎士比亚环球剧院(Shakespeare’s Globe Theater)和泰特现代艺术馆(Tate Modern)等旅游景点。
The area was filled with people at 10:08 p.m. Saturday when a white van roared across the bridge, jumping the curb and plowing over pedestrians on the sidewalk.
周六晚十点零八分，正值这一带人头攒动之际，一辆白色面包车在桥上咆哮而过，冲上人行道撞倒行人。
“We were close to the bridge, about to drive over it, and then traffic suddenly stopped,” said a witness, Lorna Murray. “People got out of their cars and started running towards us.”
“我们离桥很近，正要开车过桥，这时交通突然停滞了，”目击者洛娜·穆雷(Lorna Murray)说。“人们从自己的车子里冲出来跑向我们。”
“We saw the white van that apparently rammed into people,” she added.
“我们看到一辆白色面包车，似乎是冲进了人群之中，”她说。
As victims lay strewn on the bridge, the van crashed into a guardrail along an offramp above Borough Market. Three men jumped out carrying long knives and raced into the market area. Patrons who had spent an evening in pubs or restaurants suddenly realized they were under attack.
桥上到处都是倒下的受害者，与此同时，在博罗市场上方的坡道，面包车撞上一道护栏停了下来。三名拿长刀的男子从车上跳下来，进入市场区域。在酒吧或餐馆度过了一个晚上的顾客突然意识到他们正在遭受袭击。
The rampage lasted only eight minutes before police vehicles arrived at the scene. Almost immediately, officers began ordering people to leave the area, even as they confronted the three assailants. Each of the men was wearing what appeared to be an explosive vest — but those turned out to be fake. A British Transport Police officer was injured as other officers shot and killed the assailants.
暴行仅持续了八分钟时间，警车就赶到了现场。面对三名攻击者，警察们几乎是马上就开始命令人们离开这个地区。每名攻击者都穿着看似自杀爆炸背心的衣物，但事后被证明是假的。一名英国交通警察受伤，其他警察射杀了袭击者。
No one knew if the attack was over, or if other assailants remained at large.
当时没有人知道袭击是否就此结束，抑或是否还有其他凶手在逃。
Hotels in the area were evacuated. Alarms went off inside deserted lobbies, as members of the staff went door-to-door telling guests to get out.
该地区的酒店遭到疏散。警报声在人员散尽的大堂里响起，员工们逐个房间敲门，通知客人离开。
Panicked people sprinted across bridges, many of them in their pajamas. Children were crying, and some hotel guests were huddled up, waiting in the cold.
恐慌的人群冲过桥去，许多人只穿着睡衣。孩子们哭叫起来，一些酒店的客人们挤作一团，在寒冷中等待。
“I was asleep and didn’t even know anything was going on until the alarm went off and we were told to evacuate the hotel immediately,” said Emily Sutton, a guest at the Novotel London Tower Bridge, across the river, who was sitting on a bench wrapped in a duvet.
“我睡着了，甚至不知道发生了什么事情，直到警报响起，我们被告知要立即撤离酒店，”艾米丽·萨顿(Emily Sutton)裹着一床羽绒被坐在长凳上说，她是河对岸诺富特伦敦塔桥酒店的客人。
“When we got out, there were police and sirens everywhere,” she said. “People running and screaming. It was utter horror.”
“我们出门时，到处都是警察和警笛，”她说。“人们边跑边叫。真是太恐怖了。”
Another guest, Danny Farre, walked down the street, carrying her 9-year-old daughter on her shoulders. “This is a complete nightmare; we are stuck here while there are maniacs on the loose and nobody is helping us,” she said. “They could be anywhere. This is out of control.”
另一位客人丹尼·法尔(Danny Farre)肩扛着九岁的女儿走在街上。“这完全是一场噩梦；我们被困在这里，疯子们却逍遥法外，没有人帮助我们，”她说。“他们可能在任何地方。完全失控了。”
But police quickly took control of the situation, rushing into some bars and ordering patrons to lie on the ground as they searched for possible suspects. A report of another attack in Vauxhall raised fears that some sort of broader, coordinated assault was underway, until authorities later established that the event was unrelated.
但是，警方迅速控制了局面，他们冲进一些酒吧。要求顾客们卧倒在地，并寻找可能的嫌疑人。关于沃克斯豪尔的另一次袭击的报道令人们担心这是某种范围更广阔的协同袭击，直到当局后来确定两起事件之间没有联系。
Parts of Central London were almost immediately placed on high alert. Sirens wailed as ambulances rushed the injured to hospitals across the city.
伦敦市中心的部分地区几乎立即进入了高度戒备状态。救护车鸣响警笛，将受伤人员迅速送到这座城市的各个医院。
Helicopters hovered over the Borough Market area as crowds of people continued to evacuate. Witnesses described scenes of horror as ambulances rushed to treat the wounded and people fled in panic.
随着人群持续疏散，直升机也开始博罗市场上空徘徊。目击者描述着恐怖的场面，救护车冲进现场治疗伤员，人群在恐慌中逃离。
Les Hunter, 33, was among the crowds that had managed to get away. Hunter, from Liverpool, was visiting a friend in London and stepped out of a pub about 10:15 p.m. He saw people fleeing and heard gunshots.
33岁的莱斯·亨特(Les Hunter)当时也在逃生的人群之中。他从利物浦来到伦敦访友，晚上10:15左右，他离开一家酒吧，看到人们四散逃跑，并且听到枪声。
“We went back into the pub and people starting running in telling us to get down and hide,” he said. “I ran up to the gents and hid, but when I looked out the window, I saw a guy with blood all over his face and T-shirt.”
“我们回到酒吧，人们开始跑进来，告诉我们要卧倒和隐蔽，”他说。“我跑进男厕所藏了起来，但是从窗口看到一个满脸是血的人，T恤上也全是血。”