PARIS — Since the November attacks in Paris, the Belgian authorities have conducted dozens of raids, combed whole neighborhoods for well-known militants, and even locked down the capital for days, all part of what they promised was a stepped up effort to root out jihadists.
巴黎——自从去年11月巴黎遭受恐怖袭击以来，比利时当局开展了数十次突击行动，对一些居住区进行全面排查，搜捕众所周知的武装分子，甚至对首都进行了为期数日的封锁。所有这些都表明他们在履行承诺，竭力铲除圣战者。
Yet none of that evidently disrupted plans for the multiple attacks on Tuesday at Brussels’s main international airport and a central subway station in the heart of the capital of the European Union.
然而，显而易见的是，所有这些举措都没能让欧盟总部所在的这座城市免遭厄运，本周二，布鲁塞尔的主要国际机场和一个位于市中心的地铁站发生多起恐怖袭击。
The new attacks underscored once again not only the weaknesses of Belgium’s security services, but also the persistence and increasingly dangerous prospect of what several intelligence experts described as a sympathetic milieu for terrorist cells to form, hide and operate in the heart of Europe.
刚刚发生的袭击事件再一次提醒我们：比利时的安保机构有很多短板；此外，多名情报专家提到，一个富有同情心的社会也为恐怖主义团伙在欧洲中心的形成、躲藏和行动提供了土壤，这种情况久已有之，且还在日渐恶化。
The attacks have set off a new round of soul-searching about whether Europe’s security services must redouble their efforts, even at the risk of further impinging civil liberties, or whether such attacks have become an unavoidable part of life in an open European society.
周二的恐怖袭击掀起了新一轮自我反省热潮，中心议题是：欧洲的安保机构是否要再次提高行动规格，即便有可能进一步侵犯公民自由；在开放的欧洲社会，此类袭击是否已经不可避免地成为了生活的一部分。
At the very least, they have exposed the enduring vulnerability of Europe to terrorism in an age of easy travel and communications and rising militancy.
它们起码揭示出：在一个交通和通信都很便利、暴戾之气不断滋长的时代，欧洲应对恐怖主义的能力一直颇为孱弱。
Even before the Belgian authorities captured Salah Abdeslam on Friday for his suspected role in the Nov. 13 Paris attacks, which killed 130 people, they had detained or arrested scores of suspects directly or peripherally connected to what they described as a terrorist network linked to the Islamic State.
周五，比利时当局于逮捕了涉嫌参与去年11月13日致130人死亡的巴黎恐怖袭击的萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)。此前，他们已经拘押或者逮捕了数十名据称直接或间接牵涉伊斯兰国(Islamic State)恐怖分子网络的嫌疑人。
But despite the success in arresting Mr. Abdeslam, Tuesday’s attacks showed that Belgium continues to present a special security problem for Europe.
尽管成功逮捕了阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，但周二的恐怖袭击表明，比利时依然让欧洲面临着一道特殊的安全难题。
The country of just 11.2 million people faces widening derision as being the world’s wealthiest failed state — a worrying mix of deeply rooted terrorist networks, a government weakened by divisions among French, Dutch and German speakers, and an overwhelmed intelligence service in seemingly chronic disarray.
只有1120万人口的比利时，正日益被嘲弄为世上最有钱的“失败之国”：这里的恐怖分子网络根深蒂固，政府的职权因为说法语、荷兰语或德语的人们之间存在分歧而被削弱，不堪重负的情报机构长期处于明显的混乱状态。
But it is also home to what Bernard Squarcini, a former head of France’s internal intelligence, described as “a favorable ecosystem: an Islamist milieu, and a family milieu,” that played an important role in sheltering Mr. Abdeslam and also perhaps in Tuesday’s attacks.
此外这里还存在前法国国内情报工作负责人伯纳德·斯卡尔西尼(Bernard Squarcini)所说的那种“有利的生态系统：伊斯兰的环境，家的氛围”，它在给阿卜杜勒萨拉姆提供庇护方面起了关键作用，或许也为周二的袭击打了掩护。
“It shows that they were in a neighborhood that can shelter cells for months, because it is a neighborhood that is favorable to them,” he said, referring to Molenbeek, the Brussels district where the Paris attackers lived and where Mr. Abdeslam was able to hide among family and friends.
“事实表明，他们曾经待在一个能让恐怖团伙躲藏数月之久的社区里，因为那是一个支持他们的社区，”他指的巴黎恐怖袭击参与者待过的布鲁塞尔市莫伦贝克，阿卜杜勒萨拉姆也曾躲在该地区的亲友家中。
The cultural code of silence in the heavily immigrant district, as well widespread distrust of already weak government authorities, has provided what amounts to a fifth column or forward base for the Islamic State.
这个移民聚居区有着保持沉默的文化约定，人们普遍不太信任本已经很弱的政府当局，因此它在为伊斯兰国的第五纵队或前沿基地提供支持。
For weeks intelligence operatives have been warning that the next major terrorist attack on European soil was simply a matter of time. Even before Tuesday’s attacks, Mr. Squarcini predicted, “there will be an even more serious attack,” because, he said, “there are already the people in place.”
数周以来，情报人员一直在警告说，欧洲境内再次发生重大恐怖袭击事件不过是早晚的事。就在布鲁塞尔遭到袭击前，斯卡尔西尼还预言，“会发生更为严重的恐怖袭击，”他说这是因为“那些人已经到位了”。
Indeed, the presumed orchestrator of the Paris attacks, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who lived in Molenbeek, boasted to his cousin before he was killed that “90” operatives were dormant, ready for another attack.
事实上，在莫伦贝克区住过、被认为策划了巴黎恐怖袭击的阿卜德勒哈米德·阿巴奥德(Abdelhamid Abaaoud)，被击毙前曾向他的表弟吹嘘已经有90个卧底潜伏下来，时刻准备发动另一次袭击。
Tuesday’s blasts were seen by some security and intelligence experts as proof that Europe’s open societies, even under states of emergency, will never be risk-free.
在一些安全和情报专家看来，周二的袭击事件表明，欧洲的开放社会即便处于紧急状态之下，也不能保证不存在风险。
But the risks are fatally compounded, some said, by European-wide failures in intelligence sharing and the weakness of a Belgian intelligence service that Mr. Squarcini noted lacks the capacity to pick up the “weak signals” of emerging plots.
但一些人表示，整个欧洲在情报分享方面的失败及比利时情报部门的薄弱极大地加剧了这种风险，斯卡尔西尼指出，比利时情报机构没有能力捕捉到袭击阴谋初现时的“微弱信号”。
“The Belgians are too limited to be able to treat several objectives at once,” Mr. Squarcini said in an interview weeks ago.
“比利时人能力有限，无法同时处理多个目标，”斯卡尔西尼几周前接受采访时说。
“After a weekend of mutual congratulations” over the arrest of Mr. Abdeslam, he said Tuesday, “manifestly we didn’t see the second wave.”
“周末大家还在相互祝贺”阿卜杜勒萨拉姆被抓，他在周二说，“我们显然没有意识到会有第二波袭击。”
But political and social failures have allowed militant cells to become deeply rooted, experts warned, and they were equally or even more worrying. Belgian officials spent weeks looking for Mr. Abdeslam, yet failed to turn up Tuesday’s bombers.
但专家们警告称，政治及社会方面的失败使得激进组织变得根深蒂固，它们同样或者甚至更令人担忧。比利时官方花了几周时间搜寻阿卜杜勒萨拉姆，但没能发现周二的爆炸袭击者。
“The mode of action was structured and agreed,” said Ralf Jäger, interior minister in North Rhine-Westphalia, the German state next to Belgium. “That presumes the formation of a cell. And that is what is frightening: that such a cell could not be discovered.”
“这是一种有组织的、商定好的行动模式，”德国北莱茵-威斯特法伦州内政部长拉尔夫·雅格(Ralf Jäger)说。“这意味着他们形成了组织。”该州邻近比利时。
Those who are in place in Europe may now possess improved bomb-making skills and tactics, which can be adapted easily to additional security measures put in place by police and government authorities.
那些已经安插在欧洲的人员可能现在拥有更高的炸弹制造技术和策略，可以很容易随机应变，应对警方和政府实施的其他安全举措。
For instance, striking the check-in counter at the airport in Brussels inflicted serious casualties and disrupted air travel while circumventing the millions spent on added security screening before passengers actually board planes.
例如在布鲁塞尔机场，他们袭击了办理登机手续的柜台，造成严重伤亡和航空旅行中断，同时又避开了耗费巨资设置在旅客登机前的安检屏障。
Mr. Squarcini noted that airport security may now have to be revised Continent-wide, to take in even the approach to check-in counters — as is already the case in some parts of the world.
斯卡尔西尼指出，整个欧洲大陆的机场保安都需要做出改变，甚至要将登机柜台纳入安保——其他一些地方已经在这样做。
Others emphasized that progressive layers of new security measures can only go so far. Absent a military-style occupation, the threat from a well-established network with some degree of local complicity can never be completely forestalled, experts said.
还有一些人强调，这种层层渐进的新安全举措做到现在这个地步已经是极致。专家表示，不采取军事化的占领行动，这样一张在当地有一定内应、自身已经站稳脚跟的网络是不可能完全得到预防的。
“We are paying for our naïveté,” said Jacques Myard, a French parliamentarian who sits on his country's intelligence oversight committee. “It's not a weakness in intelligence. It's a weakness in society.”
“我们在为我们的天真幼稚付出代价，”法国议会议员、情报监督委员会成员雅克·米亚尔(Jacques Myard)说。“这不是情报方面的薄弱，而是社会的薄弱。”
“The sleeper cells have been there, and they are well implanted,” said Mr. Myard, a member of the conservative Republican party. For two years, the intelligence services “have been telling us: we’ve never seen such an influx” of terrorist operatives.
“地下组织已经蔓延至那里，他们进行了很好的安插，”法国保守党共和党(Republican)成员米亚尔说。两年来的情报工作说明当前恐怖分子“正以空前的规模涌入”。
It was unclear whether Tuesday’s bombings were a response to Mr. Abdeslam’s arrest, or long in the work. In either case, said Alain Juillet, who helped reorganize the French external intelligence service as a top official there, “it’s not surprising.”
目前尚不清楚周二的爆炸袭击行动是针对阿卜杜勒萨拉姆被捕一事的回应，还是早就策划好的。阿拉·朱耶(Alain Juillet)表示，不论出现什么情况“都不令人吃惊”。朱耶作为法国国外情报部门负责人，对该部门进行了重组。
“That’s the only thing one can say,” he said. “We can easily see that Belgium has become a hub.”
“我们只能这么说了，”他说。“很容易可以看出比利时已经成为中心。”
But the fatal paradox for Europe is that on a border-free Continent, such problems are play out transnationally. One country’s failures are necessarily amplified.
但对于欧洲来说最重要的矛盾是，在这个无国界的大陆上，此类问题也是没有国界的。一个国家的失败一定会带来更广泛的影响。
Now the problems in Belgium are threatening not only lives across Europe, but also the Continent’s experiment at integration. Whether the European Union, with its commitment to open borders, is strong enough to withstand the strains on top of years of economic crisis already is an ever more open question.
如今，比利时的问题不仅威胁到欧洲各地民众的生活，还威胁到欧洲大陆的融合实验。除了多年来的经济危机外，承诺开放国界的欧盟是否强大到足以承受这种压力，已经成为一个更具开放性的问题。