PARIS — Just two weeks after the terrorist attacks in Paris, France is gearing up for an exceptional security challenge — the global mega-conference on climate change — that will test its ability to ensure the safety of nearly 50,000 visitors and 147 heads of state who will descend on the city beginning on Sunday.
巴黎——巴黎恐怖袭击事件发生仅两周后，法国已经开始全力备战一个特别的安全挑战：近5万名访客和147位国家元首将从本周日开始陆续抵达巴黎，参加气候变化领域的全球性大型会议，而保障他们的安全对法国的能力来说是个考验。
The coincidence of the start of the conference in the same month as the attacks has brought together in one place two issues of global importance — climate change and terrorist networks — that has made Paris a focus of intense international scrutiny at a time of deep trauma for the city.
这次会议与袭击事件发生在同一个月份的巧合，把具有全球重要性的两个议题——气候变化和恐怖主义网络——联系到了一起，让深受重创的巴黎成为了全球注目的重大焦点。
With just days to go before the start of the conference on Monday, and bomb alerts occurring regularly in the Métro, Parisians remain determined to carry on with daily life, if also jittery and downcast as newspapers publish photographs of the 130 mostly young victims of the Nov. 13 attacks.
会议即将于下周一开幕，这几天巴黎地铁不时出现炸弹警报，但巴黎人仍然决心正常地过自己的日子，虽然有些紧张不安、情绪低落；报纸上在发布11月13日袭击事件中130名遇难者的照片，其中大多是年轻人。
But since the country is virtually locked down under a state of emergency, with hundreds of soldiers and police officers spread around the capital, swallowing the extra security burden may well be all the easier, security analysts said.
不过，安全分析人士称，由于该国在紧急状态期间基本上处于封锁状况，成百上千的军人和警察遍布巴黎，要承担额外的安全负担反而变得容易了很多。
Seeking to reassure potential visitors, France’s interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said this week that France would deploy nearly 3,000 extra police officers to protect the conference delegates and dignitaries, who include President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China.
法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)本周试图安抚可能的访客，表示法国将增派近3000名警察来保护会议代表和政要。这些人中包括美国总统奥巴马和中国国家主席习近平。
“In the context of the highly elevated threat against our country, the success of COP 21” — as the climate change conference is known — “will depend on maximum security,” Mr. Cazeneuve told reporters at his offices on Wednesday.
“在威胁度急剧升高的情况下，COP 21的成功有赖于最大限度的安保，”卡泽纳夫本周三在办公室对记者们说。 COP 21是这次气候变化大会的简称，指的是第21次缔约方大会。
“I am emphasizing this to you: Everything is being put in place to maximize security at the conference itself, and its surroundings,” he added.
“我要强调，所有一切均已到位，以便最大限度地提高这次会议本身及相关活动的安全性，”他说。
The most substantive measure he announced — the additional police — was merely a slight increase of the already exceptional security atmosphere that has been in place under an emergency decree, which has allowed the police to conduct more than a thousand raids around the country in pursuit of domestic threats.
卡泽纳夫宣布的最具实质性的措施是增派警力。在紧急状态法令下，法国目前的安全氛围已经非常浓重。警方在全国各地进行了上千次突击行动，搜寻境内的威胁源，所以增派警力只是对这种氛围的略微加强。
About 120,000 police officers and soldiers are now deployed all over France “to ensure the security of the French,” Mr. Cazeneuve said.
法国全境部署了约12万名警察和军人，“以确保法国人的安全，”卡泽纳夫说。
That includes 8,000 officers deployed at the country’s borders, which are now being controlled — a temporary suspension of the European Union’s open-border rules — under the state of emergency, which will last at least three more months.
这包括将8000名警察部署在该国边界。根据紧急状态法令，法国对边界进行了控制——欧盟的开放边境规则被暂停——并将持续至少三个月时间。
On Wednesday, Mr. Cazeneuve announced that 2,800 extra police officers would be assigned to the climate conference’s 40-acre site just outside Paris, where about 60 pavilions and restaurants have been built.
本周三，卡泽纳夫宣布，将增派2800名警察到占地40英亩的气候大会现场。那里位于巴黎郊外，设立了约60座场馆和餐厅。
Mr. Cazeneuve said that mobile police force units, including riot police officers, “will be deployed at an unprecedented level, in Paris and in the provinces, to assure public order and to prevent any misbehavior.”
卡泽纳夫称，他们“将用前所未有的水平在巴黎和外省部署”移动警察部队，包括防暴警察，“以确保公共秩序，防止任何不当行为”。
In Belgium on Thursday, the authorities lowered a terrorism alert that had paralyzed Brussels, the l nation’s capital, declaring that the threat of a Paris-style assault was still “serious” but no longer “imminent.”
周四的时候，比利时当局下调了恐怖主义警报的级别，称巴黎袭击式的威胁仍然“严重”，但不再“紧迫”。之前的级别令该国首都布鲁塞尔陷入瘫痪。
The decision to reduce the threat level to 3, from the highest level, 4, lifted a mood of foreboding that has gripped Brussels since last weekend but left intact a mystery over what information had led to initial government warnings of a “serious and imminent” threat. Also unclear was what had changed since.
把威胁级别从最高水平4降为3的决定，驱散了从上周末起笼罩在布鲁塞尔上空的不祥气氛，但究竟是什么消息导致政府最初发出“严重而紧迫”的警告仍然是个谜。目前也不清楚在那之后又发生了什么变化。
The fact that at least one of the suspects in the Paris attacks remains at large, possibly in Belgium, has added to a lingering sense of insecurity. On the other hand, experts said Wednesday, from a security point of view the climate conference comes at an ideal time, since France is already on maximum alert.
巴黎袭击案嫌疑人中，至少仍有一名在逃，可能就在比利时。这增添了一种挥之不去的不安全感。另一方面，专家于周三表示，从安全角度考虑，气候大会举办的时间很理想，因为法国已然处于最高警戒状态之下了。
“I don’t think we will be able to go further in terms of security measures,” said the security consultant and terrorism expert Jean-Charles Brisard. “There’s nothing more we can do, in terms of the state of emergency.”
“我不认为我们还可以在安全措施方面走得更远，”安全顾问和反恐专家让-夏尔·布里萨尔(Jean-Charles Brisard)说。“在紧急状态方面，已经到顶了。”