The once-grand entrance of the Mingxian Hall is locked and hidden behind splintered boards and overgrown greenery. Wang Shouchang, a sixty-seven-year-old farmer from Bishan village, leads us into the cramped kitchen of the farmhouse next door and heads through a passageway on the far wall. What stands before us is breathtaking: a soaring space whose ruined grandeur is only made more compelling by the way it has been packed to the rafters with the humblest of everyday junk. Built in the late-Qing dynasty by the Wang family as a place to venerate a relative who served as a high-ranking civil official in the imperial court, since the 1980s the Mingxian Hall has been a makeshift communal storage space, littered with cast-off toys, aged farming equipment, and pre-ordered coffins which compete for space with a pair of pigs and a flock of boisterous chickens.
曾经雄伟壮观的名贤堂现已大门紧锁，隐蔽在破碎木板和杂草当中。碧山村的67岁农民汪寿昌，带着我们来到隔壁农家狭窄的厨房，穿过房间另一头的一个通道。眼前是一片令人震惊的景象：高耸的空间里，无比粗陋的日常杂物堆积如山，已经到了屋顶，令整座废墟愈发显得壮观。汪家在晚清时期建造了这座建筑，用以敬奉一位在朝廷担任高等文官的亲属。自20世纪80年代以来，名贤堂被当做临时公共存储空间，里面堆满了废弃玩具、旧农具和预定的棺材，还有两头猪和一群吵闹的鸡。
Bishan, in the historic Huizhou region of Anhui province, once boasted thirty-six such Wang family halls. Today, two centuries and a revolution removed from its most flourishing period, only three halls remain. As China’s economy soars, an exodus from the countryside into nearby towns and cities hastens Huizhou’s detachment from its past.
碧山村位于安徽省历史悠久的徽州地区，那里曾有36个汪氏祠堂。如今，在经过两个世纪的洗礼和一场革命之后，碧山村的鼎盛时期已经远去，只留下了三座祠堂。随着中国经济的腾飞，从农村向附近城镇的大迁徙让徽州和它的历史越发疏离。
Nearby villages better endowed with historic architecture were granted UNESCO world heritage status in 2000 and have been overrun with tourists and film crews ever since. Their success puts also-ran villages in the region, like Bishan, at once closer and further away from the fruits of China’s new prosperity. Tourists—at least the fast-moving tour-bus variety—can visit only so many places in a day.
由于拥有更多历史建筑，附近的几个村子在2000年获得了联合国教科文组织(Unesco)世界文化遗产的称号，此后，这些地方迎来了大批游客和电影摄制组。它们的成功让该地区落选的其他村子与中国新的繁荣更近，同时也更加远了，这其中就包括碧山村。游客一天能参观的地方是有限的，至少对那些乘着大巴匆匆而过的游客来说是如此。
But Bishan’s relative lack of touristically exploitable cultural heritage has recently given it a different kind of allure and possibly, a second chance at escaping obscurity.Ou Ning and Zuo Jing, two urban cultural figures, have settled in Bishan and are attempting to revitalize its economy and cultural heritage without resorting to mass tourism. Their Bishan Project, which we have been documenting for the past year, has brought more rarified forms of development—an arts festival, high-end rustic-chic guesthouses, and a branch of the Nanjing bookstore Librarie Avant Garde—to Bishan, all in an effort to explore routes to economic revitalization that don’t involve industrialization or mass tourism.
但最近，碧山村相对缺乏可供旅游开发的文化遗产的状况，却让它有了别样的吸引力，或许还带来了第二次摆脱默默无闻状态的机会。城市文化名人欧宁和左靖在碧山村住了下来，他们打算在不依靠大众旅游业的条件下，重振碧山的经济和文化遗产。我们过去一年一直在记录他们的“碧山计划”。该计划引入了更罕见的开发模式，把一个艺术节、几家高端雅致的乡村客栈，以及南京先锋书店的一个分店带到了碧山，这一切都是为了探索在不发展工业和旅游业的前提下如何重振经济。
Unlike most villagers, Wang Shouchang maintains a deep connection to Bishan’s illustrious past. He devotes much of his private time to researching the kinship history of the region. Scenes he has drawn of Bishan and its surrounding mountains cover the walls of his home. When we visit his house, he unfurls a hand-drawn historical map of Bishan that shows the village before the ravages of the Taiping Rebellion and the Cultural Revolution stripped it of its most distinctive features. He has signed it, “Wang Shouchang, Wang Family Ninety-third Generation.” Wang knows that even if Mingxian Hall were fully restored, no one would use it for worship—the village’s traditions have crumbled faster than its buildings. But, a combination of local and family pride and dismay at the idea of letting the town’s rich “cultural deposits” go unmined has Wang hoping tourism will grow.
与大多数村民不同，汪寿昌的生活仍然与碧山灿烂的历史紧密相连。他大部分的私人时间都花在了研究该地区的族系历史上。他家的墙上挂满了他画的碧山村和附近山脉的风景画。我们到他家拜访的时候，他展开了一张手绘的碧山历史地图，图中展示了该在太平天国和文革之前的面貌。这两次事件毁掉了碧山的一些最有特色的东西。他在地图上签了名：“汪寿昌，汪家第93代。”汪寿昌知道，即使是名贤堂被彻底修复，也没有人会用它来祭祀——在这个村子，传统坍塌的速度比建筑更快。不过，由于对家乡和家族充满自豪，加上对这里丰富“文化积淀”被埋没的沮丧，汪寿昌希望旅游业能发展起来。