A 17-year old girl who said she was being held captive by her parents in her home in Perris, Calif., escaped on Sunday and alerted the authorities, who then rescued her 12 siblings — several of whom were found shackled to their beds — the Riverside County Sheriff’s Department reported on Monday.
加利佛尼亚州里弗赛德县治安官总署周一报告称，一名17岁少女称自己被父母囚禁在位于佩里斯的家中，她在周日逃脱并通知了政府当局，政府随后解救了她的12个兄弟姐妹——其中几人被发现时被铐在床上。
The 17-year-old, who escaped from the house early Sunday, used a cellphone she found in the home to call the police with her startling claim about her siblings being held against their will, the police said. Officers found the girl’s 12 siblings — who range from ages 2 to 29 — in the foul-smelling house, living in the dark without access to adequate food or water, the authorities said.
警方称，这名17岁少女周日早间从家中脱逃，用了在家中找到的一部手机报警，令人震惊地称自己的兄弟姐妹都被强行囚禁。政府当局表示，警方在这个恶臭难闻的家中找到了女孩的12个兄弟姐妹——年龄在2岁到29岁不等——他们生活在黑暗之中，没有充足的食物和水。
Some of the children were restrained with chains and padlocks. “The parents were unable to immediately provide a logical reason why their children were restrained in that manner,” the Riverside County Sheriff’s Office said in a statement.
一些孩子还被用链条和挂锁束缚。“他们的父母无法第一时间合理解释为什么他们的孩子会被这样束缚，”里弗赛德县治安官办公室在一则声明中说。
The officers did not immediately recognize that seven of the 13 siblings were adults because they were so malnourished. The sheriff’s office said that the 17-year-old girl who called 911 looked to be 10 years old.
由于孩子们极度营养不良，警方未能第一时间意识到在13个兄弟姐妹中有7名已经成年。治安官办公室表示，这名打911报警的17岁女孩看起来只有10岁大小。
Their parents, David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49, were both arrested on charges of torture and child endangerment. They were being held in jail with bail set at $9 million each, the authorities said.
他们的父母——57岁的戴维·艾伦·特平(David Allen Turpin)和49岁的露易丝·安娜·特平(Louise Anna Turpin)——都以虐待和危害儿童的罪名被捕。政府当局表示，两人目前已被拘禁，保释金各为900万美元。
The sheriff’s office did not say how long the siblings may have been held captive.
治安官办公室并未说明这些兄弟姐妹被拘留了多久。
Sheriff’s deputies provided food and water to the siblings, who were later transported to hospitals for treatment. Their conditions were not released.
副治安官向这些孩子提供了食物和水，孩子们随后被送往医院接受治疗。他们的状况并未公布。
California records show that Mr. Turpin had received state approval to run a private school, the Sandcastle Day School, at his home in Perris. The school enrolled six students this year, in grades sixth through 12th, and Mr. Turpin was listed as the principal.
加利佛尼亚州档案显示，在戴维·特平的家乡佩里斯，他曾获得州政府许可，开设了一所私立小学“沙堡走读学校”(Sandcastle Day School)。该校今年招收了6名学生，分布在6年级到12年级，特平被列为校长。
The couple filed for bankruptcy in California in 2011, stating in court documents that they owed between $100,000 and $500,000 in debt. At that time, Mr. Turpin worked as an engineer at Northrop Grumman, the defense contractor, and earned $140,000 annually, records show. Ms. Turpin’s occupation was listed as a homemaker.
2011年，这对夫妇在加州登记破产，法庭文件证明他们欠下的债务在10万至50万美元之间。当时，特平还是国防承包商诺思洛普·格鲁门公司(Northrop Grumman)的一名工程师，年收入14万美元。记录显示露易丝·特平为全职家庭主妇。
Their bankruptcy lawyer, Ivan Trahan, said in a phone interview on Monday night that the parents spoke often about their children. They had 12 at the time of their bankruptcy, Mr. Trahan said, adding that the children never visited his law office.
他们的破产律师伊万·特拉汉(Ivan Trahan)在周一晚间的电话采访中表示，这对父母常常说起他们的儿女。特拉汉称，他们在破产时已有12个子女，但补充说孩子们从未到访过他的律师事务所。
“They spoke about them highly,” Mr. Trahan said.
“他们经常提起孩子，”特拉汉说。
He said Ms. Turpin told him that the family loved Disneyland in Southern California and visited often.
他说特平夫人曾告诉他，他们一家人很喜欢去南加州的迪士尼乐园，并且经常去。
“We remember them as a very nice couple,” Mr. Trahan said. “This is shocking.”
“在我们印象中他们是一对非常好的夫妇，”特拉汉说。“这令人震惊。”