A FIVE-BEDROOM HOUSE ON THE WATER NEAR SYDNEY
包含有五间卧室的水景房，位于悉尼附近
$2 MILLION (2.25 MILLION AUSTRALIAN DOLLARS)
200万美元（225万澳元，约合人民币1242万元）
This 10-year-old cedar-and-glass house is one of nine secluded homes built around the edge of Little Lovett Bay, an inlet accessible only by boat less than an hour from Sydney.
该房源的房龄十年，以雪松木和玻璃构建，坐落在小洛薇特湾(little Lovett Bay)沿岸一带，是那里的九座与世隔绝的住宅之一。这处海湾只有从悉尼乘船才能到达，航程不到一小时。
A deck at the water’s edge looks south across the bay, which is frequented by dolphins and calm enough for swimming. The open living room has timber floors and a wood-burning stove. The kitchen is connected to the outdoor deck with folding timber windows, and skylights bring in sunlight filtered through the spotted gum trees that surround the house. The countertops are granite, and the stainless steel sink and drain board match the stainless steel gas appliances. A built-in bookcase holds cookbooks.
水边有一座露台，向南可以眺望海湾的景观。海豚经常在附近出没。海水较为平静，可以游泳。开放式的客厅内铺着木地板，设有燃木火炉。厨房与室外露台相连，配有折叠木窗。阳光透过房子周围生长的桉树洒进天窗。厨房台面为花岗岩材质，不锈钢水槽和滴水板与不锈钢的灶具完美搭配。嵌入式书柜里放着食谱。
The ground floor has two guest bedrooms and a full bath. An additional downstairs room could be used as a bedroom or a formal living room.
一楼有两间客卧和一间浴室。再下一层还有一间房，可以用作卧室或正式的客厅。
The master suite is upstairs, and includes a bedroom with a peaked ceiling, an en suite bathroom with a soaking tub and a sitting area. A walkway suspended above the living room connects the master suite with another bedroom and an office nook.
主卧套房位于楼上，包括一间带尖顶天花板的主卧、一间带浴缸和休息区的配套浴室。客厅上方有一条架空的走道，连接起了主卧，和另一间卧室及一处办公区。
The houses in this tight-knit community of artists and writers back up on Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park, a wild expanse of pristine bush that is home to koalas, kangaroos, parrots and kookaburras. The park is crisscrossed with a trail system for walking and cycling, but there are no roads in the immediate area. Many area residents are passionate about yachting, and there are quirky restaurants accessible only by boat where locals go to socialize and hear live music. The nearest groceries are a 10-minute boat ride away in Church Point.
房子所在的社区布局紧凑，居住着不少艺术家和作家。社区背靠库灵盖狩猎地国家公园(Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park) ，这是一大片原始丛林，里面栖息着考拉、袋鼠、鹦鹉和笑翠鸟(kookaburra)。这处公园内交错分布着一个供步行和自行车骑行的步道系统，不过邻近地区没有公路。许多社区居民热衷于驾驶游艇。这一带还有一些只能乘船到达的古怪餐厅，当地人喜欢去那里社交、听现场音乐。距此地最近的食品杂货店在Church Point，乘船十分钟可达。
A small motorboat is included in the price of the house, and many Lovett Bay residents keep a car parked in Church Point. From there it’s a 45-minute drive to Sydney’s central business district. The airport is another 10 minutes away.
一艘小摩托艇已被计入房价。许多洛薇特湾的居民把汽车停在Church Point。从那里驾车45分钟即可到达悉尼市中心的商业区。从那里再到机场只需十分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The Sydney market has picked up in the last 12 months, with price gains as high as 10 percent in some areas, according to Noel Nicholson, a sales agent based in Sydney at LJ Hooker Palm Beach. “There’s more confidence in the market, the economy is doing better, and people can see value,” he said. Price gains have been strongest near the city’s central business district. Mr. Nicholson said the waterfront communities around the city have also benefited from a stronger market, but this has manifested as an increase in sales rather than in price gains.
过去12个月以来，悉尼的房地产市场有所复苏，有些地区的房价涨幅高达10%。上述数据来自悉尼房地产公司LJ Hooker Palm Beach的销售经纪人诺尔·尼克尔森(Noel Nicholson)。“市场信心更足了，经济正在复苏，人们可以从房产投资中看到价值。”他说。悉尼市中心商业区附近的房价涨幅最高。尼克尔森说，市场行情的回暖也同样带动了悉尼周边的滨水社区，只不过这种带动作用表现在了销量而非价格上。
Experts expect prices to climb another 5 to 10 percent in 2014, according to John McGrath, the chief executive of McGrath Estate Agents in Sydney. A high-quality home on the water costs 4 million to 10 million Australian dollars (around $3.6 million to $9 million), Mr. Nicholson said. But if the home is only accessible by boat, the price goes down a lot. There are about 500 homes in the Sydney area that are only accessible by boat, according to Sally Taylor, an agent with Unique Estates who has the listing.
悉尼房地产公司McGrath Estate Agents的首席执行官约翰·麦格拉斯(John McGrath)指出，据专家预计，2014年的房价将再上涨5%到10%。尼克尔森说，一套优质水景房的价格在400到1000万澳元之间（约合360至900万美元，约合人民币2237至5563万元）。不过如果出行只有水路可走，那么房价就会下降很多。这样的房子在悉尼地区大概有500套，上述数据来自一名就职于Unique Estates房地产公司的卖方经纪人，萨莉·泰勒(Sally Taylor)。
In the Lovett Bay area, Mr. Nicholson said a well-appointed waterfront home without road access costs between 2 and 3 million Australian dollars.
在洛薇特湾地区，尼克尔森说，一套设施齐全、不通公路的水景房，价格在200至300万澳元（约合人民币1148至1722万元）之间。
WHO BUYS IN AUSTRALIA
谁在澳大利亚买房
“There’s been a flood of international buyers into Sydney in particular, but also Melbourne and Brisbane,” Ms. Taylor said. She said many foreigners have been tempted by the lower Australian dollar, which has drawn buyers from Hong Kong and Singapore, England and other parts of Europe. In addition, “there’s been a phenomenal amount of buying activity by Chinese buyers over the past two years,” she said. Mr. McGrath said that Chinese buyers are attracted because “Australia is close to their homeland and in the same business time zone.”
“已经有大批国际买家涌入澳大利亚，尤其是在悉尼。墨尔本(Melbourne)和布里斯班(Brisbane)也是一样，”泰勒说。她还说，澳元汇率的下跌吸引了许多外国买家，他们来自香港、新加坡以及以英国为代表的欧洲国家。除此之外，“近两年来，中国买家的购房活动也非常可观。”她说。而麦格拉斯说，中国买家之所以被吸引来，是因为“澳大利亚离他们的祖国更近，而且在同一个商务时区。”
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
Foreign buyers are prohibited from buying resale homes in Australia unless they have a residency permit. “While the place of your residency is Australia, you can own property,” Ms. Taylor said. New properties or homes being sold off-plan must be approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board, and are generally eligible for purchase by nonresident foreigners.
根据规定，外国买家在未获得居留许可的情况下，不得在澳大利亚购买二手房。“而如果你的居住地就是在澳大利亚，你就可以拥有房产，”泰勒说。预售的新房产或住宅期房必须经过外国投资审查委员会(Foreign Investment Review Board)的审批，非居民身份的外国买家一般都是可以合法购买的。
Mr. McGrath said about 9,800 foreign real estate investments were approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board in 2012, up from around 4,700 in 2009. Transaction costs consist of legal fees averaging 1,500 Australian dollars, and a stamp duty based on the price of the home. The stamp duty for this home will be about 109,500 Australian dollars, according to Ms. Taylor.
麦格拉斯说，2012年，有9800笔外国房地产投资得到了该审查委员会的批准，比2009年增加了大约4700笔。交易成本包括平均1500澳元（约合人民币8611元）的法律费用，以及基于成交价的印花税。泰勒说，（本文）这套住宅的印花税将在109500澳元（约合人民币628604元）左右。