Conspiracy theories about Western plots to undermine Turkey run so deep in the nation’s collective psyche that only the language of psychology is suitable to understanding them.
西方意图破坏土耳其的这种阴谋论，在土耳其人的集体意识中堪称根深蒂固，只有用心理学语言才能深入加以解读。
The phenomenon is known as the Sèvres Syndrome, harking back nearly 100 years to a treaty that was never carried out but that would have divided Anatolia, the Asian landmass that makes up the bulk of modern Turkey. The syndrome is named for the French city where Western powers, at the conclusion of World War I, signed a treaty that brought about the collapse of the Ottoman Empire.
这种现象称为塞夫勒综合征(Sèvres Syndrome)，可以追溯至将近百年前的一项本会将安纳托利亚割裂开来的条约，但该协议从未执行。安纳托利亚是土耳其在亚洲的领土，占现代土耳其总面积的大部分。塞夫勒综合征以一座法国城市命名，第一次世界大战结束时，西方列强在那里签订了一项导致奥斯曼帝国土崩瓦解的条约。
Analysts have used the terms “phobia,” “trauma” and “syndrome” to describe the country’s mind-set, as if Turkey were a patient on a psychologist’s couch. Ever since Sèvres, they have said, Turkey as a nation has been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
分析人士用“恐惧症”、“创伤”和“综合征”来描绘这个国家的心态，仿佛土耳其是躺在心理学家沙发上的病人。他们表示，自从塞夫勒条约签订以后，土耳其这个国家就患上了创伤后应激障碍。
One way the syndrome is believed to have manifested itself is in Turkey’s denial of the Armenian genocide. More recently, Turks have blamed the United States and Western allies for huge street protests, a corruption scandal and this summer’s failed military coup.
这种综合征的表现之一，就是土耳其对种族屠杀亚美尼亚人的否认。往近里说，土耳其把大规模街头抗议活动、一桩腐败丑闻，以及今年夏天的未遂军事政变，都归咎于美国及其西方盟友。
The Turkish government has accused followers of Fethullah Gulen, a Muslim cleric in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania, of plotting the coup. But rather than talking about how President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had allowed Mr. Gulen’s supporters to gain a foothold in the nation’s military, the Turkish public has been consumed with blaming the United States.
土耳其政府指控费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的追随者一手策划了此次政变。居伦为穆斯林神职人员，在美国宾夕法尼亚州过着自我流放的生活。但土耳其公众没有讨论总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)是如何允许居伦的支持者在本国军队里站稳脚跟的，反而对美国进行铺天盖地地谴责。
“They say, well, it was the Americans who worked with Gulen to get in these positions,” said Fatma Muge Gocek, a Turkish-born sociologist at the University of Michigan. “Why? Because they are out to get us.”
“他们会说，嗯，美国人和居伦合起伙来造就了这种局面，”出生于土耳其的密歇根大学(University of Michigan)社会学者法特玛·穆格·格杰克(Fatma Muge Gocek)表示。“为什么？因为他们就是要教训我们。”
She added: “When you are constantly blaming others for what happens to you, you can never, therefore, heal.”
她还说：“如果你为发生在自己身上的事情不停地谴责他人，就永远也不可能痊愈。”
Dietrich Jung, a professor of Middle East studies at the University of Southern Denmark, said the actions of Europeans sometimes underscored suspicion about the Turks.
在南丹麦大学(University of Southern Denmark)研究中东问题的教授迪特里希·荣格(Dietrich Jung)认为，欧洲的所做作为有时会突显土耳其人的这种怀疑。
He pointed to a recent debate in Denmark about whether that country’s royal family should meet with Mr. Erdogan during a visit to Turkey, given concerns about the Turkish leader’s growing authoritarianism.
他举的例子是，由于对越来越专制的土耳其领导人埃尔多安心生疑虑，丹麦近日爆发了一场关于本国王室访问土耳其期间是否应该会见埃尔多安的讨论。
“They visited Saudi Arabia,” Mr. Jung said. “Nobody talked about authoritarian politics. Why Erdogan?”
“他们访问了沙特阿拉伯，”荣格说。“没人提过什么威权政治。为什么到埃尔多安这里就要讨论？”
Why indeed, many Turks would say, suspiciously.
到底为什么呢？许多土耳其人都会疑惑吧。