The slender, weather-beaten, elderly Polish immigrant had been diagnosed with lung cancer nearly a year earlier and was receiving chemotherapy as part of a clinical trial. I was a surgical consultant, called in to help control the fluid that kept accumulating in his lungs.
这是一位身形消瘦的波兰移民，老人的脸上写满沧桑，差不多在一年前他被诊断出患有肺癌。此时他正在接受化疗，这是他参加的某个临床试验中的一项内容，而我作为外科会诊医生，受邀协助控制他肺中持续增多的积水。
During one visit, he motioned for me to come closer. His voice was hoarse from a tumor that spread, and the constant hissing from his humidified oxygen mask meant I had to press my face nearly against his to understand his words.
在一次探访时，他示意我靠得近一点。由于肿瘤正在扩散，他的声音嘶哑，而且戴着的雾化氧气面罩不断发出嘶嘶声，所以我得将脸贴近他的脸，才能听清他究竟在说什么。
"This is getting harder, doctor," he rasped. "I'm not sure I'm up to anymore chemo."
“大夫，我感觉越来越难受了，”他用嘶哑的声音对我说，“我不知道还能不能继续接受化疗”。
I was not the only doctor that he confided to. But what I quickly learned was that none of us was eager to broach the topic of stopping treatment with his primary cancer doctor.
此前他也向其他医生倾诉过自己的想法。但我很快得知，在他的所有会诊医生（包括我）中，没人愿意向他的肿瘤主治医生提议停止对他治疗。
That doctor was a rising superstar in the world of oncology, a brilliant physician-researcher who had helped discover treatments for other cancers and who had been recruited to lead our hospital's then lackluster cancer center. Within a few months of the doctor's arrival, the once sleepy department began offering a dazzling array of experimental drugs. Calls came in from outside doctors eager to send their patients in for treatment, and every patient who was seen was promptly enrolled in one of more than a dozen well-documented treatment protocols.
这位主治医生是肿瘤学界的新秀巨星，也是非常优秀的内科研究人员。他在为其他类型的癌症探寻疗法的过程中贡献了重要力量，受聘管理我们医院当时乏善可陈的癌症中心。他来之后的寥寥数月内，曾经沉寂的部门便开始提供琳琅满目的实验性药物。中心外的医生纷纷打来电话，迫不及待地想将病人送过来治疗，而且每一位被送来的病人都很快被收治，中心提供了超过12种疗效已被充分证实的治疗方案。
But now, no doctors felt comfortable suggesting anything but the most cutting-edge, aggressive treatments.
但现在，除了最前沿、最激进的疗法外，医生们都不敢提出其他任何治疗建议。
Even the No. 2 doctor in the cancer center, Robin to the chief's cancer-battling Batman, was momentarily taken aback when I suggested we reconsider the patient's chemotherapy plan. "I don't want to tell him," he said, eyes widening. He reeled off his chief's vast accomplishments. "I mean, who am I to tell him what to do?"
当我建议重新审视这位病人的化疗方案时，就连癌症中心的二号人物——如果主任是抗癌界的蝙蝠侠，他就是罗宾(Robin)——都吓了一大跳。他眼睛瞪得大大地说：“我可不想这样告诉他，”他一口气讲了一大通主任医师的伟大造诣。“我是说，让我来告诉他该做什么不该做什么，那我成什么人了？”
We stood for a moment in silence before he pointed his index finger at me. "You tell him," he said with a smile. "You tell him to consider stopping treatment."
我们一言不发，静静地站在那里，半晌他用食指指着我。“你去告诉他，”他微笑着说道，“你让他考虑一下，停止正在进行的化疗。”
Memories of this conversation came flooding back last week when I read an essay on the problems posed by hierarchies within the medical profession.
上周，当我读到一篇关于医学界权威等级所带来的诸多问题的文章，关于这段对话的回忆如洪水般涌来。
For several decades, medical educators and sociologists have documented the existence of hierarchies and an intense awareness of rank among doctors. The bulk of studies have focused on medical education, a process often likened to military and religious training, with elder patriarchs imposing the hair shirt of shame on acolytes unable to incorporate a profession's accepted values and behaviors. Aspiring doctors quickly learn whose opinions, experiences and voices count, and it is rarely their own. Ask a group of interns who've been on the wards for but a week, and they will quickly raise their hands up to the level of their heads to indicate their teachers' status and importance, then lower them toward their feet to demonstrate their own.
数十年来，医学教育家和社会学家们一直在撰文记录存在于医学界的等级制度以及在医生之间按资排辈的现象。大量研究都着眼于医学教育，医学教育通常被比作一个军事训练和宗教培训的过程，由年长的主教为那些无法吸收某一职业的公认价值观和行为方式的侍祭加上粗毛布衬衫。心怀抱负的医生很快了解到谁的观点、经验和意见最有份量，却很少有自己的见地。问问一群在病房见习仅一周的实习医生就知道，他们会先把手举到与头一样高以显示带教老师们的尊贵身份和重要性，然后再将手放低至双足来代表自己的身份。
It turns out that this keen awareness of ranking is not limited to students and interns. Other research has shown that fully trained physicians are acutely aware of a tacit professional hierarchy based on specialties, like primary care versus neurosurgery, or even on diseases different specialists might treat, like hemorrhoids and constipation versus heart attacks and certain cancers.
事实证明，这种热衷排名的意识，绝不仅限于医学生和实习医生。其他研究也表明，已经接受了全面培训的医师也能敏锐地意识到默许的业内等级。这种等级可以基于专业，如初级保健相对于神经外科，还可以基于医生治疗的病种，如痔疮、便秘相对于心脏病及某些癌症。
But while such professional preoccupation with privilege can make for interesting sociological fodder, the real issue, warns the author of a courageous essay published recently in The New England Journal of Medicine, is that such an overly developed sense of hierarchy comes at an unacceptable price: good patient care.
虽然带有特权的职业成见可为社会学提供有趣的素材，但正如近期《新英格兰医学杂志》(New England Journal of Medicine)刊载的一篇犀利的论文所警示的那样，真正的问题在于，这种过于明显的等级意识会带来惨重的代价：那就是牺牲了优良的病人护理。
Dr. Ranjana Srivastava, a medical oncologist at the Monash Medical Centre in Melbourne, Australia, recalls a patient she helped to care for who died after an operation. Before the surgery, Dr. Srivastava had been hesitant to voice her concerns, assuming that the patient's surgeon must be "unequivocally right, unassailable, or simply not worth antagonizing." When she confesses her earlier uncertainty to the surgeon after the patient's death, Dr. Srivastava learns that the surgeon had been just as loath to question her expertise and had assumed that her silence before the surgery meant she agreed with his plan to operate.
兰詹纳·斯里瓦斯塔瓦(Ranjana Srivastava)医生是澳大利亚墨尔本莫纳什医疗中心(Monash Medical Centre)的肿瘤内科医师，她记得一位她帮忙医治的病人在一次手术后离开人世。在进行这次手术之前，斯里瓦斯塔瓦为是否说出她的担忧而犹豫再三，她想当然地认为病人的外科医生必定是“完全正确的、不容置疑的，或者不能惹的”。在病人死亡后，她对外科医生坦言自己手术前曾有过疑问，结果得知，这位外科医生当时也不想对她的专业能力提出质疑，并且将她的静默不语理解成她同意按他的方案进行手术。
"Each of us was trying our best to help a patient, but we were also respecting the boundaries and hierarchy imposed by our professional culture," Dr. Srivastava said. "The tragedy was that the patient died, when speaking up would have made all the difference."
“我们每一位同仁都在竭尽全能地帮助病人，但是，我们也尊重由我们的职业文化所形成的界限和等级，”斯里瓦斯塔瓦说，“悲哀的是，现在病人已经死了，假如当时我们能大胆质疑，结局会大不一样。”
Compounding the problem is an increasing sense of self-doubt among many doctors. With rapid advances in treatment, there is often no single correct "answer" for a patient's problem, and doctors, struggling to stay up-to-date in their own particular specialty niches, are more tentative about making suggestions that cross over to other doctors' "turf." Even as some clinicians attempt to compensate by organizing multidisciplinary meetings, inviting doctors from all specialties to discuss a patient's therapeutic options, "there will inevitably be a hierarchy at those meetings of who is speaking," Dr. Srivastava noted. "And it won't always be the ones who know the most about the patient who will be taking the lead."
问题之一在于弥漫在许多医生中间的有增无减的自我怀疑意识。随着治疗方式的快速进步，对于病人的问题，通常已经不存在什么完全正确的“答案”，至于那些在各自专业领域内努力保持与时俱进的医生，他们更不愿意提出侵犯到其他医生“主攻领域”的治疗建议。甚至当一些临床医师尝试通过组织召开多学科会议，邀请各专业医师共商治疗方案时也是如此，“在那些会议中难免会有等级之分，而这将决定谁在会议上发言，”斯里瓦斯塔瓦指出，“牵头主导的并不一定是最了解病人的医师。”
It is the potentially disastrous repercussions for patients that make this overly developed awareness of rank and boundaries a critical issue in medicine. Recent efforts to raise safety standards and improve patient care have shown that teams are a critical ingredient for success. But simply organizing multidisciplinary lineups of clinicians isn't enough. What is required are teams that recognize the importance of all voices and encourage active and open debate.
这种明显的排名和界限意识可能会给病人造成灾难性的后果，正因为这一点，它成了医学界的一个重要问题。近期各种旨在提升安全标准和改善病人护理的努力已表明，团队才是成功的关键。但是，单纯地组织一批多学科临床医师人马是远远不够的。能够认识到各种意见的重要性，并且鼓励积极、坦诚讨论问题的团队，才是我们所需要的。
Since their patient's death, Dr. Srivastava and the surgeon have worked together to discuss patient cases, articulate questions and describe their own uncertainties to each other and in patients' notes. "We have tried to remain cognizant of the fact that we are susceptible to thinking about hierarchy," Dr. Srivastava said. "We have tried to remember that sometimes, despite our best intentions, we do not speak up for our patients because we are fearful of the consequences."
在那位病人去世之后，斯里瓦斯塔瓦和外科医生并肩共事，讨论病人案例，直接提出问题，探讨各自的疑虑以及病历中的疑点。“我们试图始终清醒地认识到一个事实，那就是我们很容易考虑到等级，”斯里瓦斯塔瓦说，“我们试图始终牢记这一点，那就是尽管出发点很好，但有时候因为害怕造成某种后果，我们没有替病人说话。”
That was certainly true for my lung cancer patient. Like all the other doctors involved in his care, I hesitated to talk to the chief medical oncologist. I questioned my own credentials, my lack of expertise in this particular area of oncology and even my own clinical judgment. When the patient appeared to fare better, requiring less oxygen and joking and laughing more than I had ever seen in the past, I took his improvement to be yet another sign that my attempt to talk about holding back chemotherapy was surely some surgical folly.
这对于我的肺癌病人而言确实如此。跟参与医治这位病人的其他医生一样，在是否向肿瘤内科主任讲自己的意见时，我也犹豫不决。我质疑自己的资历，质疑自己缺乏肿瘤学这一特定领域的经验，甚至质疑自己的临床诊断。当患者的病情有所好转，吸氧量开始下降，开着玩笑并且发出我从未见过的大笑时，我把他的病情好转当成是另一个信号，那就是，我想谈论停止化疗的尝试肯定是个外科笑话。
But a couple of days later, the humidified oxygen mask came back on. And not long after that, the patient again asked for me to come close.
但数天后，雾化氧气面罩再次戴上了。此后不久，病人再次请求我靠他近些。
This time he said: "I'm tired. I want to stop the chemo."
这一次，他说：“我好累！我想停止化疗。”
Just before he died, a little over a week later, he was off all treatment except for what might make him comfortable. He thanked me and the other doctors for our care, but really, we should have thanked him and apologized. Because he had pushed us out of our comfortable, well-delineated professional zones. He had prodded us to talk to one another. And he showed us how to work as a team in order to do, at last, what we should have done weeks earlier. 
在这位病人去世一周多前，除了那些令他感觉好受些的治疗外，他没有接受任何治疗。他对我和其他医生提供的治疗表示感谢，但说真的，该感谢并道歉的是我们。因为正是他将我们从安逸的、界限分明的专业领域里推了出来，他让我们敢于开口向彼此表达心中的真实想法。最后，他还让我们懂得了如何以团队方式去做事，如何去做那些我们几周前就应该做的事情。