Two years after Cecil the Lion was killed in a national park in Zimbabwe, sparking international outrage, his son Xanda was killed in a trophy hunt.
两年前，狮子塞西尔(Cecil)在津巴布韦的一个国家公园被杀死，引起了国际社会的愤慨。而今，它的儿子赞达(Xanda)在一次战利品狩猎中被杀死。
The lion was shot on July 7 in a hunting area just outside Hwange National Park in Zimbabwe, according to Andrew Loveridge, an Oxford University researcher who had studied both Cecil and his son. Xanda, who was 6 years old, was wearing an electronic collar that was put on by researchers to monitor his movements.
牛津大学(Oxford University)研究员安德鲁·洛夫里奇(Andrew Loveridge)称，7月7日，这头狮子在津巴布韦万基国家公园(Hwange National Park)外的一个狩猎区被射杀。洛夫里奇之前一直在研究塞西尔和它的儿子。赞达六岁了，戴着一个电子项圈，那是研究者们为监视它的行动而放置的。
“As researchers we are saddened at the death of a well-known study animal we have monitored since birth,” Mr. Loveridge said in an email.
“作为研究者，我们为一只著名研究动物的去世感到悲伤，从它出生起，我们就一直在监视它，”洛夫里奇在接受电子邮件采访时表示。
The Telegraph reported that Richard Cooke, of the company RC Safaris, had led the hunt, though it was not immediately clear who killed the lion.
《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)报道称，这次狩猎活动是RC狩猎公司(RC Safaris)的理查德·库克(Richard Cooke)带领的，不过暂时不清楚是谁杀死了那头狮子。
“Richard Cooke is one of the ‘good’ guys,” Mr. Loveridge told The Telegraph. “He is ethical and he returned the collar and communicated what had happened. His hunt was legal and Xanda was over 6 years old so it is all within the stipulated regulations.”
“理查德·库克还算是‘好’的，”洛夫里奇在接受《每日电讯报》采访时说。“他有职业道德，归还了项圈，告诉了我们事情的经过。他组织的狩猎是合法的，赞达已经超过六岁了，所以都符合管理规定。”
Mr. Cooke could not be reached for comment on Thursday.
周四，我们未能联系到库克置评。
The pride spent “considerable time outside the protection of the park,” Mr. Loveridge said. Xanda was shot about two kilometers from its edge in Ngamo Forest, in an area where hunting is legal.
洛夫里奇称，这个狮群“有大量时间是呆在公园的保护区外”。赞达是在离恩加莫森林(Ngamo Forest)边缘约两公里的地方被射杀的，在那个区域狩猎是合法的。
The lion, who was part of a pride of three females and seven cubs, was first collared for study in July 2015, with a GPS satellite collar added in October 2016, Mr. Loveridge said. The researchers traced his whereabouts until his death.
这个狮群中包括三头雌狮和七只幼狮。洛夫里奇说，赞达第一次被戴上项圈做研究是在2015年7月，2016年10月又给它加了一个GPS卫星定位项圈。研究者们一直在追踪它的行踪，直至它死亡。
Cecil was 13 when he was killed by Dr. Walter J. Palmer, an American dentist, in July 2015. Like Xanda, he had wandered outside of his sanctuary in Hwange National Park. Dr. Palmer apologized for the killing but became the target of threats and harassment.
2015年7月，塞西尔13岁时被美国牙医瓦尔特·J·帕尔默(Walter J. Palmer)杀死。和赞达一样，它也走到了万基国家公园保护区之外。帕尔默为射杀致歉，但依然成为了威胁和骚扰的对象。
“The killing of Xanda just goes to show that trophy hunters have learned nothing from the international outcry that followed Cecil’s death,” said Masha Kalinina, an international trade policy specialist for Humane Society International.
“赞达被杀表明，战利品狩猎者没有从塞西尔被杀引起的国际愤慨中吸取一点教训，”国际人道协会(Humane Society International)的国际贸易政策专家玛莎·加里宁娜(Masha Kalinina)表示。
“Xanda was a well-studied lion like this father and critical to conservation efforts in Zimbabwe,” she said. “To stop lions slipping into extinction, it is critical that countries like Zimbabwe keep as many lions alive as possible and shift away from the trophy hunting industry.”
“和父亲一样，赞达也是一头经过很多研究的狮子，它对津巴布韦的动物保护努力非常重要，”她说。“对避免狮子灭绝来说，很重要的一点是，津巴布韦等国要让尽可能多的狮子存活，取缔战利品狩猎产业。”
The Humane Society said that fewer than 30,000 African lions remain.
国际人道协会表示，非洲现在只剩下不到三万头狮子。