Rain clouds hung over the Kathmandu Valley in Nepal on the morning of April 25, 2015, soaking the hillside villages. In Kagati, a small farming community on the outskirts of the capital, Durga, 25, was boiling potatoes from his field, when a deafening noise rang out and his house began to shake violently. He and his wife, Niruta, 23, ran across the wildly shifting ground, but then he stopped in his tracks — in the confusion, the couple had left their newborn daughter inside. “I grabbed her and quickly jumped off the terrace on the hill,” he recalled. The house collapsed behind him. “One second later and the child and I would have been killed. That day we were lucky.” Many others were not.
2015年4月25日，乌云在尼泊尔加德满都谷地上空聚集，山坡上的几个村庄下起了雨。在首都郊外的小型农社卡加蒂，25岁的杜尔加(Durga)正在煮自家收获的土豆，这时传来震耳欲聋的响声，房子开始剧烈震动。他和23岁的妻子尼鲁塔(Niruta)奔跑着穿过正在剧烈起伏的地面，但他们又停了下来——一片混乱之中，他们把出生不久的女儿落在了家里。“我跑回去抓住她，迅速从山坡上梯田往下跳，”他回忆道。那座房子随即在他背后坍塌。“晚一秒，我和这个孩子都会死掉。那天我们算是幸运。”其他很多人就没有这样的运气。
Nepal had suffered a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that killed more than 8,000 people and left hundreds of thousands, like Durga and Niruta, homeless.
当时，尼泊尔遭遇7.8级地震，8000多人遇难，还有成千上万如杜尔加和尼鲁塔这样的人无家可归。
I first met the young couple on their wedding day, eight years earlier. They were just 14 and 16 years old. Nepal has one of the highest rates of child marriage in the world — 41 percent of girls and 11 percent of boys marry before age 18. That day, theirs was just one of several adolescent weddings held in the village temple. Durga’s father hadn’t liked the idea of his son’s abandoning his education and marrying young, but after Durga’s mother died, the family needed help in both the home and the fields. So they found a suitable young bride.
我第一次遇见这对夫妇是在他们八年前结婚那天。当时他们分别只有14岁和16岁。尼泊尔是世界上童婚比例最高的国家之一——41%的女孩和11%的男孩在18岁之前就结了婚。当天，村里有好几对青少年在村庙里举行了婚礼，他们只是其中之一。杜尔加的父亲原先不想让儿子放弃学业早早结婚，但杜尔加的母亲去世后，不管是家务还是地里的农活，都需要有人帮忙操持。所以他们给他找了一个合适的年轻新娘。
When I returned to check in on the young couple in 2014, the long days spent farming along the impossibly steep slopes had aged them. Yet they were determined to give their children, then 5 and 8, a better life. “I will not let them marry early,” Durga told me. “If they don’t study, they will become like us — or worse.”
2014年，我返回村里了解这对年轻夫妇的情况，发现长年累月在无比陡峭的山坡上耕种，已经让他们老了许多。不过，他们决心给自己当时分别为5岁和8岁的孩子提供更好的生活。“如果他们不学习，将来也会跟我们一样——甚至更糟。”
He was right to worry. In the wake of natural disasters, rates of child marriage increase. How this happens became clear to me in February, when I visited the couple again, this time to see how they had fared since the earthquake.
他的担忧是对的。随着自然灾害发生，尼泊尔童婚比例有所上升。今年二月再次去拜访这对夫妇时，我明白了为什么会出现这种状况。我此行的目的是看看自地震之后，他们的境况如何。
They had barely been able to cope with life’s ordinary hardships, let alone an earthquake. Niruta told me that some months before the tremors, she had discovered she was pregnant with her third child. Without telling her husband, she attempted to have an abortion, a common recourse for girls who are forced to marry young and never learn about family planning. The procedure led to extensive blood loss, and Niruta feared for her life.
之前他们就几乎无法应对艰难的日常生活，更不用说又赶上一场地震。尼鲁塔告诉我，地震发生数月前，她发现自己怀上了第三个孩子。她没有告诉丈夫，试图流产。对于被迫早婚但又不知何为生育控制的女孩来说，这是一种普遍的做法。她采取的流产手段导致自己大出血，尼鲁塔一度担心自己因此丧命。
“I had pain all over my stomach,” Niruta explained. “I cried, saying, ‘I am about to die!’ ” The fetus remained unharmed, and six months later, she realized that she was still pregnant. She delivered a baby girl just weeks before the earthquake.
“肚子疼得不得了，”尼鲁塔说。“我哭着喊道，‘我要死了！’”结果胎儿无恙，六个月后她才意识到自己依然怀着孩子。就在地震发生几周前，她生下一个女孩。
Shortly afterward, Durga’s father died after a three-year battle with cancer. Attempts to treat his illness left the couple with crippling debt. Making matters worse, the father had been in the middle of a legal battle over farmland he bought in a handshake deal. Young, uneducated and inexperienced, Durga and Niruta lost the case, and half their land — a devastating blow.
随后，杜尔加的父亲去世。之前，他和癌症斗争了三年。为了给父亲治病，这对夫妇背上了大量债务。更糟糕的是，去世前父亲正就他在一项口头交易中购买的土地和人打官司。因为年轻，缺乏教育和经验，杜尔加和尼鲁塔输掉了这场官司，损失了家里一半的土地，这可以说是一个毁灭性的打击。
Add to all of this a catastrophic earthquake, and one can easily see how hopes for their children’s futures can be dashed. “I’m ashamed to say, at that time, we didn’t even have food to eat,” Durga said. Beside him sat his oldest child, Sumitra. At 10 years old, she is still too young to marry off in this community — but not by much.
所有这些，再加上这场灾难性地震，你可以清楚地看到，他们对孩子未来的期望也随之破灭。“那时候，我愧疚地对他们说，我们连吃的东西都没了，”杜尔加说。他旁边坐着家里最大的孩子苏米特拉(Sumitra)。十岁的她现在还小，不能在村里嫁掉——但也快了。