With housing in New York City an increasingly scarce and costly commodity, and under the hoary “two can live as cheaply as one” rule, logic would seem to dictate that couples would move heaven and earth to place themselves under a single roof.
在纽约，由于住房是日益紧缺而又价格昂贵的商品，又加上那套老掉牙的规则“两人搭伙少花一半”的作用，在情理上似乎早已决定，伴侣们克服各种艰难险阻，也会寄身于同一屋檐下。 
Many people set up housekeeping together simply to help foot the rent bill. But some couples, both those in longtime relationships and the officially married, follow a less-traveled path. They live in separate homes — on different floors of the same building, down the block from one another, in different neighborhoods, even in different boroughs.
很多人共居一室，只是为了有利于支付账单。但是有些伴侣——既有长期处于恋爱关系的，也有正式结婚的，却选择另辟蹊径。他们各住各的——在同一栋大厦的不同楼层、同一条街区的街头街尾，或住在不同社区，甚至不同的行政区里。
Some who go this route contend that separate spaces not only reduce friction in a relationship but keep it lively, even sizzly, freed from such mundane concerns as whose turn is it to empty the dishwasher and by the way, did anyone pay the rent?
有些作此选择的人认为，分居两处不仅能减少伴侣间的摩擦，而且能使彼此关系保持鲜活甚至热情，又免去了一些尤为琐碎的烦恼，比如该由谁去清空洗碗机？哦对了，有人付过房租了吗？
Especially for older New Yorkers, more set in their ways, the idea can offer considerable allure. Perhaps each person cares passionately about living in a certain neighborhood and neither wants to compromise. And after multiple marital breakups, the world of joint mortgages and matching towels may hold little charm.
对于年长的纽约人尤其如此。由于他们早已安于自己的生活方式，这一主张对于他们便格外有吸引力。有可能是双方都各自热衷于生活在某个特定社区，彼此不想妥协；而且经过多次婚姻破裂之后，那个共同分担按揭、使用情侣毛巾的世界，对他们而言魅力已所剩无几了。
In a city in which even shoebox-size apartments carry hefty price tags, real estate calculations play a critical role. Who dares jettison a rent-stabilized Classic 6 or an affordable space in a pricey neighborhood like the Village? And how many people can squeeze into a studio the size of a pantry?
在一个连区区鞋盒大小的公寓都被贴上重磅价格标签的城市里，在房产上的得失计较，扮演了一个关键角色。谁敢把一套租金稳定的经典6号公寓(Classic 6)弃如敝履，谁又能抛下格林威治村(the Village)这样高档住宅区中的一套价格实惠的住处？而又有多少人能挤住在一间食品储藏室大小的单间寓所里呢？
A recent blizzard of statistical studies and two newish books — “Living Happily Ever After — Separately” by Lise Stryker Stoessel and “Going Solo: The Extraordinary Rise and Surprising Appeal of Living Alone” by Eric Klinenberg — document what sociologists call living apart together, or L.A.T.
最近，暴风骤雨般兴起的一系列统计学研究，以及两本新出版的图书——丽丝·斯特赖克(Lise Stryker)的《从此过上了幸福生活——各安其所》(Living Happily Ever After—Separately)与艾瑞克·克莱恩贝格(Eric Klinenberg)的《独行：一个人生活的不凡之处与惊人吸引力》(Going Solo: The Extraordinary Rise and Surprising Appeal of Living Alone)——分别记录了被社会学家们称为“共同分居生活”(living apart together)，又名“L.A.T”的现象。
“The arrangement has surprising appeal, perhaps because it protects against the constant churning in people’s domestic lives,” said Mr. Klinenberg, a sociology professor at New York University. “Many people who live alone are in relationships that are quite meaningful. And the arrangement is especially attractive in New York, which has such a thriving public culture and little stigma about how people live their lives.”
“这种方式有惊人的吸引力，可能因为它防止了人们在家庭生活中不断出现的纷争，”纽约大学的社会学教授克莱恩贝格说，“很多独自生活的人，都维系着相当重要的恋爱关系。而在纽约，这种方式尤其具有吸引力，因为纽约有着如此兴旺的公共文化，而对于人们怎样过自己的生活，几乎没有过什么指摘。”
A common reason couples live under separate roofs is that they’ve always done it that way, making the arrangement less a conscious decision than confirmation of the status quo, as it was for Michael Kenny, 62, a lawyer with Citigroup, and Ingrid Doyle, the woman with whom he shares his life. They met in an unlikely setting — the dentist’s office. She was a hygienist, he was a patient, and they’ve been a couple since shortly after their first date in 2000, albeit rooted to separate and stylistically opposite habitats.
伴侣们生活在各自屋檐下的原因，通常是他们长久以来一贯如此，所以这更像是在保持现状，而并非刻意为之，正如花旗集团(Citigroup)的一名62岁律师迈克尔·肯尼(Michael Kenny)和与他共度一生的女士英格里德·多伊尔(Ingrid Doyle)一样。他们邂逅在一个没人能想到的环境——牙医办公室。她是牙科护士，而他是一名病人。他们在2000年第一次约会后不久就成了伴侣，尽管俩人仍然固守着彼此迥异的生活习惯。
His is a rent-stabilized two-bedroom in a rehabilitated tenement on West 116th Street in South Harlem, his home since 1997, for which he pays under $2,000 a month. Much of the furniture is vintage golden oak dating back to his undergraduate years at Brown.
他的住处在南哈莱姆区(South Harlem)的西116街，这是一栋重修的廉租公寓楼中一套租金稳定的双卧室公寓。他从1997年开始便住在那里，并每月为这套公寓支付不到2000美元（约合人民币12241.6元）的租金。公寓里的家具，大部分是有些年头的金橡木制品，都可以追溯到他还在布朗大学读书的时候了。
“Because let’s face it,” Mr. Kenny said, “I’m an old dog.”
“因为，让我们面对现实吧，”肯尼说，“我已经是个老家伙了。”
Ms. Doyle, who is about a decade younger, lives more elegantly in a seven-room prewar co-op on West 143rd Street in northwest Harlem that she bought 20 years ago for $25,000. Her space is wreathed with 11 windows, and includes such amenities as a dining room and the outline of a fireplace discovered during a recent renovation.
比他小十来岁的多伊尔住得更加体面些，她在哈莱姆区西北部的西143号街，有一套七个房间的战前合作公寓(co-po)，购于20年前，花了25000美元（约合人民币15.3万元）。她的房屋四面装有11扇窗户，包括餐厅这样舒适的配置，在最近一次翻修房屋时，还发现了一座壁炉的轮廓。
“It wasn’t really a decision,” Mr. Kenny said of the arrangement. Both he and Ms. Doyle have grown children from previous marriages who are sometimes in residence. “Plus we’re not newlyweds,” he said. “We’re grown adults.”
“这真的不是什么决定，”肯尼谈起这种生活方式时说。他和多伊尔各自的孩子都已经长大，他们有时候会在家里住。“另外我们都不是新婚夫妇，”他说，“我们都是过来人了。”
Despite different addresses, their lives overlap with an easy rhythm. They vacation together. They see each other most evenings, with him usually staying at her place, the tidier of the two. And although some couples who live this way worry about a loss of daily intimacy — the unexpected hug or the soothing words after a bad dream, Ms. Doyle has no reservations about their lifestyle. “It’s hard to think of downsides,” she said. “Sometimes I miss him, but he’s just a $7 taxi ride away.”
尽管他们住处不同，生活却有条不紊、非常融洽。他们休假时待在一起，也常常晚上见面，通常他会待在她的家里，因为那里更整洁一些。虽然一些这样生活的伴侣会担心缺少日常的亲密感——两人之间不经意的拥抱，或是恶梦醒来后的好言安慰，但多伊尔对于他们的生活方式却没有任何不满。“很难想出这有什么不妥之处，”她说。“有时候我会想他，但坐出租到他的住处只要7美元（约合人民币43元）。”
He, in turn, walks the 30 blocks to her place or jumps on the subway. And his reservations are minimal. “I miss the casual comfort of being around someone,” Mr. Kenny said. “But I’ve lived alone for so many years, I think changing would be hard. I have my ways, my possessions. It’s the old saw, that strong fences make good neighbors. A door that can close makes for a good relationship.”
而他呢，只要步行走过30条街区或跳上一趟地铁，就能到她那里。他的不满也微乎其微。“我怀念有人在身边的那种安逸，”肯尼说，“但是我已经一个人生活了那么多年，我想改变起来肯定很难。我有自己的行为方式、自己的生活领域。有句老话说，牢固的篱笆能够成就友善的邻居。一扇能关上的门，也会成就一段好的恋爱。”
The idea of a couple living under separate roofs can still raise eyebrows, which is why many two-roof couples remain skittish about going public about their situation. They worry about losing a killer apartment or simply jinxing a good thing. Some are loath to admit to being party to such an arrangement, afraid that it might signal that a relationship isn’t serious.
一对伴侣各居其所这样的想法，仍然会令一些人大惊小怪。所以很多分居的伴侣对于公开他们的情况，仍会有所抗拒。他们担心会失去一套诱人的公寓，或是让一件好事蒙上阴影。有些人不愿承认自己对此抱着玩玩看的心态，怕这会发出信号，表明这段关系并不是认真的。
But in a city like New York, the two-roof route has understandable appeal, especially for couples with an escape hatch, a k a a summer house, and no children. Unlike sprawling suburban houses, few New York homes come equipped with a basement to hole up in, or a top-floor bedroom that a spouse can use as an office. And for people whose homes have soared in value over the years, two roofs can also make long-term financial sense.
但是在纽约这样的城市，这种各居其所的方式理所当然是很有吸引力的，尤其对于那些处于“空巢”状态（也即所谓的“暑期家庭”）以及没有孩子的伴侣们。与宽敞的乡村住宅不同，纽约的房屋很少带有可用来存放物品的地下室，也没有可以让你的另一半用来当办公室的顶楼卧室。而对于那些房屋已经在这些年里升值了的人而言，分居的方式也具有更长远的财务意义。
“In New York, good real estate is hard to get, and so people are reluctant to give up a rent-stabilized apartment,” Mr. Klinenberg said. “That, not always the relationship, is the real source of security. Whatever happens, you know you can always move back. The real anxiety springs from trying to find a place and being afraid you’ll be priced out. And so if a couple has two great apartments, both people are reluctant to give them up. There may be a short-term savings, but people fear the long-term expense if the relationship doesn’t work out.”
“在纽约，优质房产很难找，所以人们不愿放弃一处租金稳定的公寓，”克莱恩贝格说，“因为公寓才是安全感真正的来源，而恋爱关系却不一定。不管发生什么，你都知道自己总是能搬回去的。而真正让人感到焦虑的是你想找一个住处，却担心自己付不起租金。所以，如果一对伴侣有两套不错的公寓，两个人便都不愿放弃。住在一起短期来看是会省钱，但人们会担心，假如这段关系不能持续下去的话，自己还有长远的开支。”
“The underlying terror,” Mr. Klinenberg added, only half in jest, “is that you might have to move to Jersey City.”
“这种潜在的恐惧就是，”克莱恩贝格半开玩笑地补充道，“你可能不得不搬到泽西城去(Jersey City)。”
Such were the fears of Robert Fontanelli and Rolf Sjogren, two art directors in their early 50s, who lucked into affordable Manhattan spaces in the ’90s and couldn’t picture relinquishing them, despite a relationship that’s been going strong since they met nearly six years ago.
这正是两位50多岁的艺术指导，罗伯特·丰塔内利(Robert Fontanelli)和罗尔夫·肖格伦(Rolf Sjogren)所害怕的事情。他们有幸于上世纪90年代就住进了颇为实惠的曼哈顿公寓，但无法想象要放弃自己的住处，尽管从大约六年前两人相遇以来，他们的关系正变得越来越好。
Mr. Fontanelli, who is also an artist, lives in a one-bedroom in a 1929 Tudor Deco building on Irving Place in Gramercy. The space is noisy and the kitchen just four by five feet, but the apartment was a deal when Mr. Fontanelli bought it 15 years ago for $138,000.
丰塔内利还是一位艺术家，他住在一套单卧室公寓中，位于格拉莫西(Gramercy)尔文坊(Irving Place)的一栋1929年都铎式大楼里。此处环境嘈杂，而且厨房面积只有4x5英尺（约合1.2x1.5米），但这套丰塔内利15年前以13.8万美元（约合人民币84.5万元）价格买下的公寓，的确是笔不错的交易。
Mr. Sjogren, who works at Gallery Stock, a photo agency, got an even better deal, a 14th-floor studio on Horatio Street in the Village that he bought 20 years ago for $62,000. At about 450 square feet, the apartment is beyond cozy, but thanks to a spectacular unobstructed view of downtown Manhattan, light floods the space well into the evening.
肖格伦则在一家名为斯多克画廊(Gallery Stock)的图片社工作。他所买的公寓更加实惠，那是一套位于14楼的开放式单间公寓(Studio)，位于格林威治村的霍雷肖街(Horatio Street)。20年前，他以6.2万美元（约合人民币37.9万元）买下了它。这间公寓的面积大约为450平方英尺（约41.8平方米），感觉无比温馨；但是，拜曼哈顿中心城区那一览无余的壮观景色所赐，灯光涌入房间，让这里在夜间也亮如白昼。
The two became a couple within months of their meeting. “We’re very permanent, very happy,” Mr. Sjogren said. “I can see myself growing old with Robert, something I never felt before.”
俩人相遇后，数月之内便结成了伴侣。“我们的关系很长久，很幸福，”肖格伦说，“我能想见自己和罗伯特白头偕老，这种感觉我以前从未有过。”
But real estate worries keep them rooted to their separate berths, “because even if we sold both apartments,” Mr. Fontanelli said, “and got, say, $1 million, what can you buy in New York for $1 million?”
但是对房产的担忧，让他们坚守了各自的栖身之所，“因为即使我们把两套公寓都卖掉，”丰塔内利说，“然后拿到比如说100万美元（约合人民币612万元），但是你用100万能在纽约买什么房呢？”
One night a week they spend solo, but on most evenings, one makes the picturesque 22-minute walk to the other’s apartment. Like college roommates, they sometimes share clothes, because both men wear roughly the same size, and as Mr. Fontanelli summed up their wardrobe, “A black shirt is a black shirt.”
他们每周有一个晚上会各自独处，但在大多数夜晚，其中一人会在风景如画的路上走个22分钟，来到对方的公寓。他们就像大学室友一样，有时候会共穿衣服，因为两个男人的身材差不多。丰塔内利对他们的衣橱做了这样的总结，“一件黑衬衫就是一件黑衬衫。”
Misgivings about the “here today, there tomorrow” pattern of his days occasionally wash over Mr. Sjogren. “Sometimes I think this is not how I pictured my life,” he said. “Sometimes I wonder, what’s wrong with me that I don’t live with my partner. Plus the schlepping back and forth between apartments can tire me out a little. But if it preserves the relationship and makes us happy, why should we change? People say it’s not real if you don’t live together, but I can’t imagine it being any realer than this.”
对于“今天这里、明天那里”的生活模式，肖格伦偶尔也会忧心忡忡。“有时候，我觉得这并不是我想要的生活，”他说，“有时我在想，我到底是怎么了，为什么不跟我的伴侣住在一起呢？而且，在两所公寓之间来来往往也让我感到有点疲倦。但是，如果这样做能维系我们的关系，并让我们俩都开心，那我们为什么要去改变呢？人们都说，如果你们不住在一起，那就不是来真的，但我想象不出比现在更加真实的生活。”
Real estate agents see glimpses of these yours-and-mine arrangements when they’re asked to find a new apartment for one member of a couple, as happened to Jenet Levy, a Halstead broker. Her client was half of a Hell’s Kitchen pair who had lived together on and off for seven years, “very long-term, very devoted,” as Ms. Levy summed up the relationship. “But she worked long, crazy hours and it bothered her to see him sleeping a lot and being what appeared to her as lazy. The woman also objected to what she described as ‘food I do not like’ in the refrigerator.”
当房地产经纪人们被请求，为一对伴侣中的某一位找套新公寓时，也看出了这种“你是你、我是我”相处方式的端倪，正如发生在房地产经纪公司Halstead的一位经纪人珍妮特·列维(Jenet Levy)身边的事一样。她的客人是《地狱厨房》(Hell's Kitchen)里的一对组合，已经若即若离地一起生活了七年，“两人关系持久，非常相爱，”列维这样总结这段关系，“但她总是长时间地疯狂工作，却见他经常睡大觉，而且在她看来还有些懒散，于是她心里就很烦。这位女士还很反感冰箱里那些被她形容为‘我不喜欢的食物’的东西。”
In July, Ms. Levy found her an apartment in the West Village, close enough to her partner’s place to allow him to make regular visits to her cats, to whom he’d grown deeply attached. “They’re a great couple,” Ms. Levy said, “as long as they maintain separate apartments.”
七月里，列维为她在西村(West Village)找到一套公寓，距离她男友的住处非常近，可以让他常去看望她的猫，他很粘那只猫。“他俩是不错的一对儿，”列维说道，“只要他们住在各自的公寓里。”
Can separate roofs help cement a relationship? Janice Handler, a retired lawyer in her late 60s, and her husband, Norman Ilowite, 85, a divorced doctor whom she married in 1978, swear that they can. Dr. Ilowite spends most of the year aboard a 40-foot boat anchored off the Jersey Palisades. Ms. Handler’s home is a small two-bedroom in Carnegie Hill that she bought 20 years ago for under $200,000. The couple spend weekends on the boat and winters in her apartment. Henry, their basset hound, shuttles back and forth.
分开居住有助于巩固一段关系吗？60多岁的退休律师詹尼斯·汉德勒(Janice Handler)和她的丈夫，曾离过婚并于1978年与她结婚的85岁医生诺曼·伊洛维特(Norma Ilowite)发誓说，他们就是。伊洛维特每年大部分时间在停靠于泽西峭壁(Jersey Palisades)外的一艘40英尺（约12.2米）的船上度过。而汉德勒的家是卡耐基山(Carnegie Hill)的一套有两间卧室的小公寓，她20年前以不到20万美元（约合人民币122.4万）的价格买下了这套房子。这对夫妻在船上共度周末，而冬天则住在她的公寓里。他们的矮腿猎犬亨利(Henry)也往返于两地。
“At first we did this because Norman wanted to live on the boat,” Ms. Handler said. “To be honest, I wasn’t 100 percent thrilled with the idea, but I decided to go with the flow because I wanted this man and I didn’t want to leave New York. Now it’s 35 years later, and I’d choose this arrangement in a heartbeat.”
“最初，我们这样做是因为诺曼想在船上生活，”汉德勒说，“坦白讲，我对这个主意并不是百分之百感到兴奋，但我决定顺其自然，因为我想和这个男人在一起，又不想离开纽约。如今，一晃35年过去了，我一念之间就选择了这样的生活方式。”
But she knows that in a decade it will be considerably harder for her husband to move between his place and hers. “I can see the handwriting on the wall,” Ms. Handler said. She hopes for five more years.
但她知道，再过十年，她的丈夫在自己的住处和她的公寓之间往返，会变得更加困难。“我能觉察到，这样的日子行将结束了，”汉德勒说。但她希望再有五年时间。
Also keeping one eye on the clock is Veronica Kelleher, a former health care administrator, and Kevin Harvey, a retired psychotherapist. The two, both in their 70s, met in 1965 at a church youth group in Brooklyn Heights, where Mr. Harvey still lives in a rent-stabilized one-bedroom. Her home is a rent-stabilized $1,000-a-month walk-up on Washington Place with high ceilings and French doors.
同样在数着日子过的，还有卫生保健系统的一位前任管理员维罗妮卡·凯莱赫(Veronica Kelleher)，和退休的精神治疗医师凯文·哈维(Kevin Harvey)。这两位已经70多岁的老人，是在1965年在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)的一个教堂青年人组织中邂逅的。哈维至今仍住在布鲁克林高地一套租金稳定的单卧室公寓中；而她的家，则是华盛顿特区(Washington Place)一套租金稳定、每月1000美元（约合人民币6120元）的无电梯公寓，有高高的天花板和法式双开门。
They have been a couple for 48 years this month and were married six years ago. That both are independent and have different tastes — she likes evenings at the theater while he’d rather stay home and listen to National Public Radio — gave the setup an emotional imperative.
到这个月为止，他们已经相伴了48年，并于六年前正式结了婚。两个人都很独立，而且兴趣各异——她喜欢晚上去剧院，而他宁愿待在家里收听全国公共广播电台(National Public Radio)的节目，因而也曾有过情感告急的状况。
“Early on, I might have wanted us to move in together,” Ms. Kelleher said. “But I’m not sure the relationship would have been so good if we’d lived in the same place. I always say, we need a river between us.”
“起初，我本想搬到一起住，”凯莱赫说，“但我没有把握，如果我们住到了一起，关系是不是还能这么好。我常常说，我们之间需要一条河流。”
Still, she suspects they might opt for a single roof if one of them became seriously ill. “Even with something like the flu,” she said, “it’s hard to pick up everything and go to comfort the person. When you’re sick, it’s nice to have someone near you.”
不过她还是相信，如果他俩当中有哪个患上重病的话，他们可能就会选择在同一屋檐下生活。“即使是得了感冒这样的小病，”她说，“要拎着所有东西去服侍这个人也不容易。而你生病的时候有个人在身边也会很好。”