KATHMANDU, Nepal — The rescue team had nearly given up when it spotted distant figures on a ledge.
尼泊尔加德满都——救援队看到了远处岩架上的人影，那之前他们差一点就放弃了。
Over the course of 47 days, since two young Taiwanese trekkers wandered off the trail in a snowstorm, the searchers had tried almost everything: aerial surveys by helicopter, bushwhacking through deep forest, trying to follow the movements of vultures.
自从两名年轻的台湾徒步游客在一场暴风雪中失踪以后，搜救者在48天的时间里差不多做了所有的努力：出动直升机进行空中勘查，在森林深处仔细找寻，试图追随秃鹰的踪迹。
The father of Liang Sheng-Yueh, one of the missing students, had even consulted an astrologer. But they found nothing.
两名失踪学生之一梁圣岳的父亲，甚至咨询过占星师。但他们一无所获。
Alerted by a fellow searcher who saw what he assumed were two bodies on the ledge, the leader of the rescue team, Madhab Basnet, carefully made his way to the site, using a handmade ladder the rescuers had quickly fashioned. When he reached the ledge, he was shocked when one of the two, an emaciated and badly weakened young man, spoke to him.
接到一名认为自己看见两具尸体躺在岩架上的搜救者报信后，救援队队长马德哈·巴斯内特(Madhab Basnet)借助救援者们迅速以手工制成的一架梯子，小心翼翼地向那里行进。抵达岩架的时候，巴斯内特大吃一惊，因为倒在地上的两人之一，一个瘦骨嶙峋、极其虚弱的年轻男子，居然开口说话了。
He said that his girlfriend, Liu Chen Chi, 19, had died three days before.
他说他的女朋友，19岁的刘宸君，已于三天前去世。
“He said his girlfriend was in a lot of pain and grief,” Mr. Basnet said. “He said he ate salt and water and that’s how he survived.”
“他说他的女朋友经受了很多苦痛和悲伤，”巴斯内特说。“他说他靠着吃盐、喝水活了下来。”
Every trekking season in Nepal produces tales of physical endurance and heartbreak. They are rarely as extreme, though, as that of Mr. Liang, who was released from the hospital on Monday. He arrived having dropped to 84 pounds from 150 pounds, his hair infested with lice and the flesh of one foot being eating by maggots. Doctors said he most likely survived because he was able to replenish the salt in his body and drink melted snow.
在尼泊尔，每一个徒步季都会制造出与身体耐力和心碎有关的故事。不过它们都很少能在极端程度上超越已于周一出院的梁圣岳的故事。他的体重从150磅下降到了84磅，他的头发生了虱子，他一只脚上的肉被蛆吃掉了一些。医生说他之所以撑了过来，极有可能是因为他可以为身体补充盐分，并喝下融化的雪水。
It was not immediately clear where he got the salt, but Mr. Liang was an experienced climber who might have carried an extra supply in case of such a disaster.
尚不清楚梁圣岳是从哪里拿到了盐，但他是一个经验丰富的攀登者，或许携带了额外的补给，以防遇到这样的灾难。
Ms. Liu appeared to have died of starvation, said Dr. Mani Maharjan, who performed an autopsy.
刘宸君似乎死于饥饿，做了尸检的马尼·马哈江(Mani Maharjan)医生表示。
Dr. Chakra Raj Pandey, the medical director at Grande International Hospital, said Mr. Liang at one point turned to him with a strange request.
格兰迪国际医院(Grande International Hospital)的医疗主任沙克拉·拉伊·潘迪(Chakra Raj Pandey)医生说，梁圣岳一度向他提出了一个奇怪的请求。
“He asked me to provide him with a book that had maps,” Dr. Pandey said. “It appeared to me that he wanted to look at a map and recall his trekking journey and probably find out where the journey went wrong.”
“他让我拿给他一本带地图的书，”潘迪医生说。“我觉得他想要看着地图，回顾徒步之旅，可能是要找出旅途中哪里出了问题。”
The two hikers, both students at National Dong Hwa University in Taiwan, arrived in Nepal for their trek in February and were last seen on March 9.
这两名徒步者都是台湾国立东华大学的学生，于今年2月来尼泊尔徒步，最后一次露面是在3月9日。
After becoming disoriented in a snowstorm, they tried to follow the path of a river, in hopes that it would lead them to a settlement, Mr. Liang told his rescuers and local news media immediately after the rescue. Since then, he has declined all interview requests at the behest of the Taiwanese government.
在暴风雪中迷失方向后，他们试图沿着一条河往前走，希望最终能抵达一个居住点——梁圣岳在获救之初告诉救援者和当地媒体。那之后，他应台湾政府的要求，婉拒了所有采访请求。
As they made their way along the river, they slid into a ravine and became stuck on the ledge, where they took shelter in a cave. They remained there for more than six weeks. On either side of the ledge were steep rock faces, so they could not move up or down, and snow was falling outside, Mr. Liang told the rescuers. After 10 days, their food ran out, he said.
沿着河边往前走的时候，他们滑入了一个峡谷，被困在山壁上，在一个岩穴里躲避风雪。他们在那里呆了六个多星期。山壁的两侧都是陡峭的岩面，因此他们上不去也下不来，而且外面还下着雪，梁圣岳告诉救援者。他说刚过10天，他们就把食物吃光了。
Their parents, alarmed not to have heard from them, hired a search party on March 26. The team set off the next day and continued to search for nearly two weeks. When that failed, a second search began.
他们的父母与他们失去联系后惊恐万分，于3月26日雇了一支搜救队。搜救队从次日开始，连续搜救了将近两个星期。失败后又开始进行二次搜救。
The lost trekkers were first spotted by Dawa Tamang, 55, a farmer who was helping the rescue effort. “I went by using a machete in the jungle,” he said. “I went by the side of the river. It was risky for me to go through. I might have lost my life as well.”
首先发现这两名失踪的徒步者的是达瓦·塔芒(Dawa Tamang)，一名现年55岁、帮助开展救援工作的农民。“我在丛林里借助砍刀前行，”他说，“我沿着河边走。对我来说进行搜救要冒很大的风险。我也有可能丧命。”
But then he spied the two figures on the ledge.
但他随即看到了岩架上的两个人。
“I didn’t touch them,” Mr. Tamang said. “I came back and went to call my friends because I was told not to touch the bodies. I just saw them and then came back.”
“我没碰他们，”塔芒说。“我折返回来，给我的朋友们报信，因为我曾被告知不要触碰尸体。我只是看到了他们，然后就回来了。”
They built a ladder out of a dead tree, expecting to retrieve the bodies. That is when Mr. Basnet descended to the ledge and, to his surprise, found Mr. Liang alive but too weak to stand. They fed him noodles hoping to build up his strength.
他们用枯树制作了一架梯子，为的是取回尸体。接着，巴斯内特下到了山壁上，惊讶地发现梁圣岳还活着，但由于太虚弱，无法站起来。他们喂他吃了面条，希望他能恢复一些力气。
“We were shocked and afraid,” Mr. Basnet said. “We were thinking he was dead.”
“我们又惊又怕，”巴斯内特说。“我们本来以为他死了。”
They carried Mr. Liang to safety, while the young woman’s body was airlifted from the ledge.
他们把梁圣岳抬到了安全的地方，不过年轻女子的尸体是用飞机从岩架上运走的。
Over six days in the hospital, Mr. Liang gained 13 pounds, the doctor said.
医生说，在梁圣岳住院的六天里，他的体重增加了13磅。
“I feel relaxed now, but can’t recall the last 47 days,” he told a reporter from The Himalayan Times.
“我现在觉得很放松，但不敢回想过去的47天，”他告诉《喜马拉雅时报》(The Himalayan Times)的一名记者。
He celebrated his 21st birthday in the company of journalists, telling them that he had survived only thanks to the prayers of others.
他在记者们的陪伴下庆祝了自己的21岁生日，并告诉他们，全靠其他人诚心祈望，他才能活下来。
“If you look at his eyes and his face, you can see that he is excited about a new life,” Dr. Pandey said. “This is called rebirth. But the happiness of rebirth is mixed with the loss of his girlfriend and the tragedy of staying in the mountains and enduring so much pain.”
“如果看着他的眼睛和脸庞，你会发现他因获得新生而感到兴奋，”潘迪医生说。“这就是所谓的重生。但重生的喜悦是和失去女友以及待在山间、忍受那么多痛苦的悲惨遭遇混合在一起的。”