One day last spring, James Wade sat cross-legged on the carpet and called his kindergarten class to order. Lanky and soft-spoken, Wade has a gentle charisma well suited to his role as a teacher of small children: steady, rather than exuberant. When a child performs a requested task, like closing the door after recess, he will often acknowledge the moment by murmuring, “Thank you, sweet pea,” in a mild Texas drawl.
去年春天的一天，詹姆斯·韦德(James Wade)盘坐在地毯上，呼吁一群幼儿班学生遵守上课秩序。身材瘦长，说起话来轻声细语的韦德，散发着一种文雅的魅力，不温不火的态度与他的幼儿园老师身份非常契合。每当一个小孩执行完一项任务，比如课间休息结束后关上教室门，他总不忘记用他温和的德克萨斯口音，拖长声调轻声说，“谢谢你，小甜豆。”
As the children formed a circle, Wade asked the 5-year-olds to think about “anything happening at home, or at school, that’s a problem, that you want to share.” He repeated his invitation twice, in a lulling voice, until a small, round-faced boy in a white shirt and blue cardigan raised his hand. Blinking back tears, he whispered, “My mom does not like me.” The problem, he said, was that he played too much on his mother’s iPhone. “She screams me out every day,” he added, sounding wretched.
在孩子们围坐成一圈后，韦德要求这些五岁大的孩童回想“一件发生在家里或学校，你想说给大家听的烦恼事。”他用循循善诱的语言重复了两次邀请。终于，一个穿着白衬衫和蓝色开衫，脸蛋圆圆的小男孩举起了手。他的眼里闪烁着泪水，低声说，“我妈妈不喜欢我。”他说，原因是他经常玩妈妈的iPhone手机。“她每天都大喊大叫不许我玩儿，”他补充说。听起来挺可怜的。
Wade let that sink in, then turned to the class and asked, “Have any of your mommies or daddies ever yelled at you?” When half the children raised their hands, Wade nodded encouragingly. “Then maybe we can help.” Turning to a tiny girl in a pink T-shirt, he asked what she felt like when she was yelled at.
韦德稍作停顿，好让其他孩子体会这种境遇，然后问全班学生：“你们的爸爸妈妈有没有对着你们吼叫过？”一半孩子举起来了手，韦德鼓励性地点了点头。“也许我们可以帮忙哦。”他转向一位穿着粉红色T恤的小女孩，问她被父母吼叫时的感受。
“Sad,” the girl said, looking down.
“难过，”小女孩低下头说。
“And what did you do? What words did you use?”
“你做了什么？你当时是怎么说的？”
“I said, ‘Mommy, I don’t like to hear you scream at me.’ ”
“我说，‘妈妈，我不喜欢听见你对我尖叫。’”
Wade nodded slowly, then looked around the room. “What do you think? Does that sound like a good thing to say?” When the kids nodded vigorously, Wade clapped his hands once. “O.K., let’s practice. Play like I’m your mommy.” Scooting into the center of the circle, he gave the boy, Reedhom, a small toy bear to stand in for the iPhone, then began to berate him in a ridiculous booming voice. “Lalalala!” Wade hollered, looming overhead in a goofy parody of parental frustration. “Why are you doing that, Reedhom? Reedhom, why?” In the circle, the other kids rocked back and forth in delight. One or two impulsively begin to crawl in Reedhom’s direction, as if joining a game.
韦德缓缓地点了点头，然后环视房间。“你们有什么想法？她这样说听起来好不好呢？”孩子们使劲地点头，韦德拍了一下手。“好的，让我们练习一下。我来扮演你的妈妈。”他迅速走向圆圈中心，给了那个差点哭鼻子，名叫里德霍姆的男孩一个小玩具熊来代替iPhone手机，随即用一种滑稽可笑的腔调大声呵斥他。“啦啦啦啦！”韦德耸立在那里，大声叫喊，笨拙地模仿那种为人父母的无奈感。“你为什么这样做呢，里德霍姆？里德霍姆，为什么？”四周的其他孩子乐得来回摇晃。还有一两个孩子有些按捺不住，开始向里德霍姆的方向爬行，仿佛要加入一场游戏似的。
Still slightly teary, Reedhom began to giggle. Abruptly, Wade held up a finger. “Now, we talked about this. What can Reedhom do?” Recollecting himself, Reedhom sat up straight. “Mommy, I don’t like it when you scream at me,” he announced firmly.
依然泪眼婆娑的里德霍姆开始咯咯地笑。韦德突然举起一根手指。“请注意，我们刚才讨论了这件事情。里德霍姆可以做些什么？”里德霍姆自己先回想了片刻，然后坐直了身子。“妈妈，我不喜欢你对着我尖叫的样子，”他坚定地宣布。
“Good,” Wade said. “And maybe your mommy will say: ‘I’m sorry, Reedhom. I had to go somewhere in a hurry, and I got a little mad. I’m sorry.’ ”
“好，”韦德说。“也许你的妈妈会说：‘对不起，里德霍姆。我有事要赶紧出门，刚刚有点着急上火。对不起。’”
Reedhom solemnly accepted the apology — then beamed as he shook Wade’s hand.
里德霍姆郑重地接受了道歉，然后带着灿烂的笑容与韦德握了一下手。
Wade’s approach — used schoolwide at Garfield Elementary, in Oakland, Calif. — is part of a strategy known as social-emotional learning, which is based on the idea that emotional skills are crucial to academic performance.
在韦德所在的加州奥克兰加菲尔德小学(Garfield Elementary)，全校老师都在应用这种隶属于社交情绪学习（social-emotional learning，简称SEL）战略的方式，这种理论认为情绪技能是决定学习成绩的关键因素。
“Something we now know, from doing dozens of studies, is that emotions can either enhance or hinder your ability to learn,” Marc Brackett, a senior research scientist in psychology at Yale University, told a crowd of educators at a conference last June. “They affect our attention and our memory. If you’re very anxious about something, or agitated, how well can you focus on what’s being taught?”
“基于数十项研究，我们现在知道，情绪可以增强或妨碍你的学习能力，”在去年6月份的一次会议上，耶鲁大学(Yale University)资深心理学家马克·布兰克特(Marc Brackett)对一群教育工作者这样说道。“情绪影响我们的注意力和记忆力。如果你为某件事情担忧或者激动，你上课时怎么可能会专心听讲呢？”
Once a small corner of education theory, S.E.L. has gained traction in recent years, driven in part by concerns over school violence, bullying and teen suicide. But while prevention programs tend to focus on a single problem, the goal of social-emotional learning is grander: to instill a deep psychological intelligence that will help children regulate their emotions.
近年来，曾经偏居一隅、无人问津的SEL突然成为教育理论界的显学，部分原因在于各界对于校园暴力、欺凌事件和青少年自杀现象的深切忧虑。但各类预防方案往往关注单一问题，而社交情绪学习则拥有一个更加宏大的目标：灌输一种深层次的心理智力，以帮助孩子调节自己的情绪。
For children, Brackett notes, school is an emotional caldron: a constant stream of academic and social challenges that can generate feelings ranging from loneliness to euphoria. Educators and parents have long assumed that a child’s ability to cope with such stresses is either innate — a matter of temperament — or else acquired “along the way,” in the rough and tumble of ordinary interaction. But in practice, Brackett says, many children never develop those crucial skills. “It’s like saying that a child doesn’t need to study English because she talks with her parents at home,” Brackett told me last spring. “Emotional skills are the same. A teacher might say, ‘Calm down!’ — but how exactly do you calm down when you’re feeling anxious? Where do you learn the skills to manage those feelings?”
布兰克特指出，对于孩子们来说，学校是一口情感熔炉——从孤寂聊赖到欣喜若狂，纷至沓来的学习和社交挑战可以催生诸多情绪。教育工作者和家长向来认为，一个小孩应对这种压力的能力要么是与生俱来的——它可以看成是性情问题，要么是“一路走来”，经由杂乱无章的日常互动锤炼而习得。但布兰克特认为，在实践中，很多孩子从来没有锤炼出这些关键技能。“这就像是说，一个孩子不需要学英语的原因是，她经常在家里用英语与父母交谈，”布兰克特去年春天在接受我采访时这样说道。“情绪技能亦是如此。一位老师说，‘冷静下来！’但试问，当你正感到焦虑时，你究竟该如何平静下来？你在哪里学过管理这些情绪的能力？”
A growing number of educators and psychologists now believe that the answer to that question is in school. George Lucas’s Edutopia foundation has lobbied for the teaching of social and emotional skills for the past decade; the State of Illinois passed a bill in 2003 making “social and emotional learning” a part of school curriculums. Thousands of schools now use one of the several dozen programs, including Brackett’s own, that have been approved as “evidence-based” by the Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning, a Chicago-based nonprofit. All told, there are now tens of thousands of emotional-literacy programs running in cities nationwide.
越来越多的教育工作者和心理学家现在认为，这个问题的答案在学校。过去十年来，乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)的教育乌托邦基金会(Edutopia)一直在竭力游说，希望学校传授社交和情绪技能；伊利诺伊州在2003年通过了一项法案，使得“社交和情绪学习”成为该州学校课程的组成部分。数千所学校正在使用几十种已被学术、社交和情绪学习协作中心（Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning，一家位于芝加哥的非营利机构）认可为“基于证据的”课程，布兰克特开发的教学大纲也位列其中。现如今，全美各地城市正在运行数以万计的情绪素养培训项目。
The theory that kids need to learn to manage their emotions in order to reach their potential grew out of the research of a pair of psychology professors — John Mayer, at the University of New Hampshire, and Peter Salovey, at Yale. In the 1980s, Mayer and Salovey became curious about the ways in which emotions communicate information, and why some people seem more able to take advantage of those messages than others. While outlining the set of skills that defined this “emotional intelligence,” Salovey realized that it might be even more influential than he had originally suspected, affecting everything from problem solving to job satisfaction: “It was like, this is predictive!”
孩子需要学会管理自身情绪以实现其潜能这一理论，肇始于两位心理学教授的研究，他们是新罕布什尔州大学(University of New Hampshire)的约翰·梅尔(John Mayer)和耶鲁大学的彼得·沙洛维(Peter Salovey)。在20世纪80年代，梅尔和沙洛维对情绪如何传达信息，为什么有些人似乎能够比其他人更好地利用这些信息等问题产生了兴趣。在概述一套确定这种“情商”(emotional intelligence)的技能时，沙洛维意识到，它可能比他起初的猜测更有影响力，从解决问题到工作满意度，情商影响一切事情，“我们或许可以认为，它具有预测性！”
In the years since, a number of studies have supported this view. So-called noncognitive skills — attributes like self-restraint, persistence and self-awareness — might actually be better predictors of a person’s life trajectory than standard academic measures. A 2011 study using data collected on 17,000 British infants followed over 50 years found that a child’s level of mental well-being correlated strongly with future success. Similar studies have found that kids who develop these skills are not only more likely to do well at work but also to have longer marriages and to suffer less from depression and anxiety. Some evidence even shows that they will be physically healthier.
随后几年，许多研究都证实了这一观点。相较于标准的学术水平测试，所谓的非认知技能——自制、坚韧和自我认知等品质——实际上可以更好地预测一个人的人生轨迹。2011年一项研究使用了1.7万名英国婴儿50年成长历程中获取的数据，结果发现，孩子的心理健康水平与其未来的成功密切相关。类似的研究也发现，拥有这些技能的孩子不仅更有可能做好本职工作，而且拥有更长久的婚姻，更少遭受抑郁和焦虑的折磨。一些证据甚至显示，这些孩子的身体也更加健康。
This was startling news. “Everybody said, Oh, it’s how kids achieve academically that will predict their adult employment, and health, and everything else,” recalls Mark Greenberg, a Penn State University psychologist. “And then it turned out that for both employment and health outcomes, academic achievement actually predicted less than these other factors.”
这个消息令人吃惊。“每个人过去都说，基于一个孩子的学业成绩，我们可以预测其成年后的就业和健康状况，以及其他一切事情，”宾夕法尼亚州立大学(Penn State University)心理学家马克·格林伯格(Mark Greenberg)回忆道。“但事实证明，就预测就业和健康结果而言，学业成绩的准确性其实还不如这些其他因素。”
Should social-emotional learning prove successful, in other words, it could generate a string of benefits that far exceeds a mere bump in test scores. This prospect has led to some giddiness among researchers. Maurice Elias, a psychology professor at Rutgers University and the director of the Rutgers Social-Emotional Learning Lab, has lauded emotional literacy as “the missing piece” in American education.
换言之，如果社交情绪学习得以成功，它就可以催生一系列远远超过考试成绩提高的收益。这种前景让一些研究人员欣喜若狂。罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)心理学教授、罗格斯社交情绪学习实验室(Rutgers Social-Emotional Learning Lab)主任莫里斯·埃利亚斯(Maurice Elias)将情绪素养誉为美国教育中“缺失的一块”。
But finding ways to measure emotional awareness — never mind its effects — is tricky. It’s also still unclear whether S.E.L. programs create the kind of deep and lasting change they aspire to. The history of education reform is rife with failures: promising programs that succeed in studies, only to falter in the real world. The phenomenon is so common that researchers even have a name for it: the Hawthorne effect — the fact that simply focusing attention on something, like a school, is enough to cause a temporary uptick in performance.
但找到衡量情绪意识（更遑论其影响）的方式，是一件非常棘手的事情。此外，目前也不清楚的是，SEL课程是否能够带来开发者渴望的那种深刻而持久的改变。教育改革的历史充满了各种各样的失败：一些在研究报告中取得成功，看似前程似锦的方案，却在现实世界中遭受重创，蹒跚而行。这种现象数不胜数，研究人员甚至为它起了一个专有名词：霍桑效应(Hawthorne effect)——仅仅把注意力集中于某件事物（比如一所学校），就足以推动其业绩暂时上扬。
The problem of evaluating S.E.L. is compounded both by the variety of “prosocial” programs on offer and by the ways in which they end up being used in the classroom. Some of them — including one of the most popular, Second Step — are heavily scripted: teachers receive grade-appropriate “kits” with detailed lesson plans, exercises and accompanying videos. Others, like Facing History and Ourselves — in which children debate personal ethics after reading the fictionalized letters of a Nazi colonel and a member of the French Resistance — are more free-form: closer to a college philosophy seminar than to a junior-high civics class. " ‘Mindful eating’ is social-emotional learning, according to some people,” Brackett told me. “It’s a mess. Everybody wants to jump on the bandwagon.”
SEL的评估问题因各种各样的“亲社交”课程，以及它们最终在课堂上的应用方式而变得更加复杂。一些课程，包括最受欢迎的“第二步”(Second Step)，在很大程度上是照本宣科：老师收到一套适合所教年级学生，包含详细教案、练习和相关视频的“工具包”。其他课程则采用更加自由的形式，它们更接近于大学的哲学研讨会，而不是初中的公民课，比如“面对历史和我们自己”——孩子们首先阅读一位纳粹上校和一名法国抵抗运动成员的虚构信函，然后就个人伦理展开辩论。“在一些人看来，‘意念进食(Mindful eating)’也是社交情绪学习，”布兰克特对我说。“真是乱作一团！人人都想赶时髦。”
David Caruso, a psychologist who does consulting and training in emotional intelligence, has called the current boom in social-emotional programs “promising,” but he worries that the field might be getting ahead of itself. “There are people who want to write this into the Common Core right now,” Caruso told me. “But before we institutionalize this, we’d better be sure that it makes a difference in the long run.”
从事情商咨询和培训工作的心理学家大卫·卡鲁索(David Caruso)认为，当下的社交情绪学习热“大有前途”，但他担心，这个领域的发展有些超前了。“一些人希望立即将它写进共同核心课标，”卡鲁索对我说。“但在将其制度化之前，我们最好首先确定，社交情绪学习能够产生深远的影响。”
Leataata Floyd Elementary, a school in a low-income part of Sacramento, has few problems with gangs or guns but a long history of dysfunction. Until recently, the staff attrition rate was more than 20 percent a year, and student test scores were regularly among the lowest in the state. Before the current principal, Billy Aydlett, was hired in 2010, there were six separate principals in five years.
位于萨克拉门托市低收入地区的里阿塔塔弗洛伊德小学(Leataata Floyd Elementary)几乎不存在帮派或枪支问题，但很长时间以来，这所学校一直运转不良。直至最近，该校员工的年流失率依然超过20%，学生考试成绩常常排在加州倒数几位。在现任校长比利·阿德尼特(Billy Aydlett)于2010年受聘之前的5年中，这所学校先后更换了6位校长。
Not long after he arrived, Aydlett created a detailed plan to boost the school’s academic performance. He recruited a roster of highly regarded teachers and developed an aggressive new curriculum full of rich and invigorating lessons. Once the school year started, however, it became clear that the new strategy was a bust. “Literally within the first month of school, we realized that we hadn’t planned for the right thing,” Aydlett recalled when I visited the school last spring. “What we discovered was that these kids weren’t going to be able to make progress on the academics until they’d gotten help with their social and emotional issues.”
履新后不久，阿德尼特创建了一项旨在提高该校学业成绩的详尽计划。他招募了一批享有盛誉的老师，并雄心勃勃地开发了一套内容丰富、令人振奋的新课程。然而，新学年开始后，大家清楚地看到，这项新战略遭受重创。“第一个月还没结束，我们就意识到我们此前的计划搞错了对象，”我去年春天参观这所学校时，阿德尼特回忆称。“我们发现，这些孩子的学业根本不可能取得进步，除非老师帮助他们解决社交和情绪问题。”
With the district’s support, Aydlett attended social-emotional learning training. The program was an unlikely choice for Aydlett — a socially awkward man who confesses to being “awful” at ordinary human encounters. But since beginning the emotional-literacy work, Aydlett said, he had become more aware of interpersonal dynamics, and even made going on a vacation with his wife a priority — something he never bothered to do before. (“I didn’t see the point in that kind of connectedness,” he admitted. “But I’ve learned that it’s important.”) On the morning I visited, he stood greeting children at the gate with high-fives, then led me to the classroom of Jennifer Garcia, who teaches second grade.
在学区的支持下，阿德尼特参加了社交情绪学习培训。对于不善社交，承认自己“讨厌”日常人际交往的阿德尼特来说，这类项目似乎是一种不可能的选择。但自从阿德尼特开展情绪素养工作以来，他对人际交往产生了更深的认识，甚至把跟太太一起度假摆放在了优先位置——这是他过去根本不屑于做的事情（“我过去没有意识到这种联系的意义，”他承认。“但我现在终于领悟到它的重要性”）。在我访问这所小学的那天早上，他站在校门口以举手击掌的方式欢迎小朋友，随后引领我进入二年级老师珍妮弗·加西亚(Jennifer Garcia)的课堂。
As Aydlett and I watched, Garcia walked her class through an exercise in nonverbal cues, asking the children to imagine times when they felt sad or angry or frustrated, and then to freeze in those expressions and postures. As the kids slumped forward in exaggerated positions of woe, Garcia complimented them on small details: a bowed head or hangdog expression. Afterward, Garcia turned to the class. “This is the thinking part of your brain,” she said, holding up her thumb. She pointed to her fingers. “And this is the feeling part of your brain.” Folding her thumb into the center of her palm, she closed her fingers around it. “When we have strong emotions, the thinking part of our brain can’t always control them,” Garcia explained, waggling her fist. “What do we do in those moments?” As the kids called out answers — counting to five, “self-talk,” “dragon breaths” (a kind of deep-breathing exercise) — Garcia nodded.
在阿德尼特和我的注视下，加西亚穿行在学生之间，用非语言提示安排一个练习，她要求孩子们想象他们感到悲伤、愤怒或沮丧的时刻，然后把这些表情和姿态“凝固”起来。这些小孩随即用夸张的姿态表达悲哀之情，加西亚赞扬了一些小细节：一个耷拉着的脑袋，一副忧愁的表情。随后，她转向全班学生，竖起拇指说，“这是大脑的思维部分。”接着，加西亚指向她的手指。“这是大脑的感觉部分。”她把拇指折入手掌中心，并合上了其他手指。“当我们出现强烈的情绪时，大脑的思维部分并非总能够控制它们，”加西亚一边摆动着她的拳头，一边解释道。“在这些时刻，我们应该怎么做呢？”当她计数到5时，孩子们喊出了答案，“自我对话”，“龙的呼吸”（一种深呼吸运动）等等，加西亚点了点头。
Such strategies may seem simplistic, but researchers say they can have a profound effect. When I spoke with Mark Greenberg, who developed a social-emotional curriculum known as Paths (Promoting Alternative Thinking Strategies), he noted that repeatedly practicing these skills means they gradually become automatic. “The ability to stop and calm down is foundational in those moments.”
诸如此类的策略看起来或许很简单，但研究人员认为，它们可以产生深远影响。社交情绪课程“促进替代思维策略”（Promoting Alternative Thinking Strategies，简称Paths）的开发者马克·格林伯格(Mark Greenberg)在接受我采访时指出，反复练习这些技能意味着它们会逐渐成为一种习惯。“在这些时刻，终止负面情绪，并冷静下来是最基础的能力。”
The value of such skills was evident later that day, when I sat in on a fourth-grade class meeting, in which students worked through interpersonal conflicts as a group. Sitting in a circle on the carpet, Anthony, a small boy in a red shirt, began by recounting how he cried during a class exercise and was laughed at by some of the other students. Asked whether he thought the kids were giggling to be mean, or just giggling because they were uncomfortable, Anthony paused. “I think that some people didn’t know what to do, and so they giggled,” he admitted finally — though he was also adamant that a few of the kids were actually laughing at him. “I was really sad about that,” he added.
那天晚些时候，我还旁听了四年级学生围坐在地毯上举行的一节班会。在这节班会上，学生们发挥集体才智，设法解决一个个人际冲突问题——我也从中清楚地看到了这类技能的价值所在。一个穿着红衬衫、名叫安东尼的小男孩首先讲述了他在一次练习课上哭泣，并被其他同学嘲笑的经历。当被问及他认为其他小孩的咯咯笑声是出于恶意，还是仅仅因为他们感到不自在时，安东尼停顿一下。“我觉得，一些人不知道该怎么办，所以就笑起来了，”他最终承认——虽然他也坚持认为，有几个小孩的确是在嘲笑他。“我当时真的很伤心，”他补充说。
Though Anthony was still upset, his acknowledgment that not all the kids were snickering — that some may just have been laughing nervously — felt like a surprisingly nuanced insight for a 9-year-old. In the adult world, this kind of reappraisal is known as “reframing.” It’s a valuable skill, coloring how we interpret events and handle their emotional content. Does a casual remark from an acquaintance get cataloged as a criticism and obsessed over? Or is it reconsidered and dismissed as unintentional?
虽然安东尼仍然伤心难过，但他承认，并非所有孩子都在嘲笑他，一些同学可能只是紧张兮兮地笑了起来。一个9岁孩童竟然具有如此细致入微的洞察力，这不由得让人赞叹。在成人世界里，诸如此类的重新评估被称为“重构”(reframing)——这种极其宝贵的技能影响着我们解释事件，处理其情绪内涵的方式。你是否将熟人不经意的一句话理解为一种批评，然后反复回想而不能自拔？或者，重新思考之后，你认为那并非是有意的？
Depending on our personalities, and how we’re raised, the ability to reframe may or may not come easily. Richard Davidson, a neuroscientist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, notes that while one child may stay rattled by an event for days or weeks, another child may rebound within hours. (Neurotic people tend to recover more slowly.) In theory, at least, social-emotional training can establish neurological pathways that make a child less vulnerable to anxiety and quicker to recover from unhappy experiences. One study found that preschoolers who had even a single year of a social-emotional learning program continued to perform better two years after they left the program; they weren’t as physically aggressive, and they internalized less anxiety and stress than children who hadn’t participated in the program.
我们能否非常容易地获取重构的能力，与我们的个性和成长历程息息相关。威斯康星-麦迪逊大学(University of Wisconsin-Madison)神经学家理查德·戴维森(Richard Davidson)指出，一个孩子可能因一起事件连续数日或数周紧张不已，不知所措，另一个小孩或许没过几个小时就恢复了（神经质的人往往恢复得更加缓慢）。至少在理论上，社交情绪培训能够建立神经通道，进而使得孩子不那么容易陷入焦虑，更快地从不愉快的经历中恢复过来。一项研究发现，学龄前儿童哪怕仅仅接受了一年的社交情绪学习，在培训结束两年后，他们的表现依然在持续改善；相较于没有参加过培训的孩子，他们的攻击性大大减弱，其内在的焦虑和压力也更少一些。
It may also make children smarter. Davidson notes that because social-emotional training develops the prefrontal cortex, it can also enhance academically important skills like impulse control, abstract reasoning, long-term planning and working memory. Though it’s not clear how significant this effect is, a 2011 meta-analysis found that K-12 students who received social-emotional instruction scored an average of 11 percentile points higher on standardized achievement tests. A similar study found a nearly 20 percent decrease in violent or delinquent behavior.
此外，社交情绪学习或许能够让孩子变得更加聪明。戴维森指出，由于社交情绪培训开发了前额叶皮层，它也有助于加强一些对于学习非常重要的技能，比如冲动控制、抽象推理、长远规划和工作记忆。虽然我们目前还不清楚这种影响有多么重要，但2011年的一项荟萃分析发现，就标准化学业成绩测验而言，接受过社交情绪指导的K-12学生（即从幼儿园到12年级的学生）的平均得分高出11个百分点。一项类似的研究发现，这些学生的暴力或犯罪行为减少了近20%。
When I spoke with teachers at Leataata Floyd, they reported seeing similar results. One teacher remembered the pre-S.E.L. school as being out of control, with kids throwing food and angrily upending their desks in class. Now, she says, “they may still blow up, but they take responsibility. That’s a new thing: they always used to blame somebody else. For them to take responsibility — it’s huge.”
阿塔塔弗洛伊德小学的老师报告称，他们看到了类似结果。一位老师回忆称，在开展社交情绪学习之前，学校几乎陷于失控——上课时，孩子们经常乱扔食物，有的甚至气呼呼地掀翻课桌。现在，“他们或许依然会乱发脾气，但他们开始承担责任。这是一个新现象：他们过去总是指责别人。对于这些孩子来说，承担起责任的确是一个巨大进步，”她说。
Starting in the late 19th century, the philosopher John Dewey argued against the development of purely vocational elementary schools, insisting that the true purpose of schooling was not simply to teach children a trade but to train them in deeper habits of mind, including “plasticity” (the ability to take in new information and be changed by it) and interdependence (the ability to work with others).
在19世纪后期，哲学家约翰·杜威(John Dewey)开始反对小学单纯地开展职业教育。他坚称，学校教育的真正目的不是简单地向孩子传授一门技艺，而是培养他们形成更深层次的思维习惯，包括“可塑性”（吸收新信息并被其改变的能力）和相互依靠（与他人合作的能力）。
Social-emotional learning takes Dewey’s theory further, suggesting that all emotions — not just the right ones — are adaptive if properly managed. Studies have shown that people in a slightly sad mood are better at analyzing or editing a written document (they focus better on details), while people who are slightly angry are better able to discriminate between weak and strong arguments. The purpose of a social-emotional learning program, then, isn’t to elide emotion but to channel it: to surf the rapids rather than to be swamped by them. This can be hard to do. When we feel angry, we usually act angry — even when that makes the situation worse. The nature of emotion is that it tends to run away with us. “When a feeling is unpleasant, how are you going to handle it?” asks Stephanie Jones, a Harvard psychologist who has studied a number of social-emotional learning programs. “Do you default to an angry response, a defensive response? Or do you go into a mode that’s more information-seeking?”
社交情绪学习进一步发展了杜威的理论，它认为只要处理得当，所有情绪——不仅仅是正面情绪——皆有用武之地。有研究表明，略微伤感的人更擅长分析或编辑书面文件（他们更加专注于细节），微怒的人则能够更好地辨别出无力和强大的论证。此外，社交情绪学习课程的意图，并不是为了消除情绪，而是为了引导情绪：于激流处冲浪，而不是被激流淹没。这可能是很难做到的。当我们感到愤怒时，我们通常就会表现得很愤怒——即使这样做导致情势变得更糟。我们往往任由情绪摆布，而这正是情绪的本质所在。“当你感到不高兴的时候，你会如何处理这种情绪呢？”研究过大量社交情绪课程的哈佛大学心理学家斯蒂芬妮·琼斯(Stephanie Jones)问道。“你的默认模式是一种愤怒或防御性反应，还是倾向于寻求更多的信息？”
Social-emotional learning programs often rely on strategies from conventional therapy, like the ability to get distance on a feeling, or to unpack the deeper emotions that may be hidden within it. But fostering these skills in a child is a complex undertaking. For a child to master empathy, Jones notes, she first needs to understand her own emotions: to develop a sense of what sadness, anger or disappointment feels like — its intensity and duration, its causes. That awareness is what lays the groundwork for the next step: the ability to intuit how another person might be feeling about a situation based on how you would feel in a similar circumstance.
社交情绪学习课程往往依赖常规心理治疗策略，比如与某种情绪保持距离的能力，或卸下埋藏于心间的深厚情感负累的能力。但在一个孩子身上培育这些技能，是一项非常复杂的工作。琼斯指出，要让孩子领会同理心，她首先需要理解自己的情绪：树立何为悲伤、愤怒或失望的意识，知晓它的强度、持续时间和原因。唯有让孩子首先具备这种意识，你才能培养下一个层面的能力：基于你自身在一种情境下的感受，凭直觉感知另一个人在类似情境下的情绪反应。
When it comes to making social-emotional learning effective, Jones says, determining which skills can constructively be taught at what ages is “a critically important question.” So far, however, few studies have been done on which skills are actually acquired through S.E.L., and even fewer have included the kind of rigorous, controlled trials needed to prove that acquiring a specific skill produces a specific outcome over the long term. “If skills aren’t nurtured in an ongoing way,” Jones says, “it may be that those skills are lost.”
在谈到如何使社交情绪学习产生效果时，琼斯表示，确定哪些技能可以在哪个年龄段建设性地传授给孩子，是“一个极其重要的问题”。但到目前为止，很少有研究明确指出哪些技能实际上是通过社交情绪学习获得的，包含那种严谨的对照试验、证明掌握一种特定技能将在远期产生某个特定结果的研究更是少之又少。“如果技能不是以一种正在进行的方式培育，那或许是因为这些技能已经丧失了，”琼斯说。
Even a handful of poorly designed programs, Caruso notes, could cause educators who are just warming up to the idea of a social-emotional curriculum to dismiss the entire field. Critics already charge that social-emotional programs are a kind of “therapy light” and a waste of valuable classroom time. In 2010, a report from the U.S. Department of Education that evaluated seven different S.E.L. programs found no increase in academic achievement and no decline in behavioral problems. S.E.L. supporters criticized the study’s methodology and pointed out that the researchers couldn’t be sure that the comparison schools weren’t using S.E.L. techniques even if they weren’t using a formal program. Still, to show that S.E.L. is effective, Caruso says, programs will have to be tested the same way a new pharmaceutical is: through a randomized trial that could distinguish short-term placebo effects from lasting improvements. Without such evidence, social-emotional learning could go the way of the self-esteem movement, an ill-fated program from the 1980s in which schoolchildren repeated mantras like “I am special” and “I am beautiful.” At the time, it, too, was considered the height of progressive education. The program was largely abandoned after it ended up being connected to rising rates of narcissism.
卡鲁索指出，就算只有极少数设计不当的项目，也可能导致刚刚对社交情绪课程产生热情的教育工作者摒弃这一学习领域。有批评者已经指责称，社交情绪课程是一种“光照疗法”，纯粹是在浪费宝贵的上课时间。2010年，美国教育部(U.S. Department of Education)就7个不同的SEL课程发布评估报告，结果显示，孩子们的学业成绩并未增长，其行为问题也没有改善。SEL的支持者批评了这项研究的方法，并指出，即使一些被用来比较的学校没有使用一个正式课程，研究人员也不能确定这些学校没有使用SEL技术。尽管如此，为了表明SEL的有效性，卡鲁索认为这些课程必须效仿新药物的测试方法：通过一种随机试验，把短期的安慰剂效应与持久的改善区别开来。如果没有这类证据，社交情绪学习可能会重蹈自尊运动的覆辙。曾在上世纪80年代盛行一时，命运多戕的自尊运动鼓励学童如念咒语一般，重复诸如“我很特别”和“我很美丽”这类口号。它当时被视为进步主义教育的巅峰。最终，在人们发现这项运动跟越来越多的孩子出现自恋倾向有关系后，它基本上就被抛弃了。
“It’s a big messy field, with a lot of promises, but very little data,” Caruso says of S.E.L. “Right now I think people are just throwing stuff at the wall to see what sticks.”
“这是一个庞杂的领域，充满了这样那样的承诺，但数据寥寥无几。我觉得，大家现在都是在朝着一堵墙扔东西，想看看哪些东西能够被粘住，”卡鲁索如是评价SEL。
One of social-emotional learning’s “stickiest” programs is Second Step, the plug-and-play curriculum that provides teachers with grade-appropriate emotional-skills lessons. Originally developed as a violence-prevention program in 1986, Second Step is currently used by approximately 25,000 schools in the U.S. and Canada, according to Joan Cole Duffell, executive director of Committee for Children, the nonprofit behind the program.
“第二步”是“最具粘性的”社交情绪学习课程之一，这门可谓即插即用的课程为教师提供适合特定年级的情绪技能课。据该课程提供者，非营利组织儿童委员会(Committee for Children)执行董事琼·科尔·达菲尔(Joan Cole Duffell)介绍，开发于1986年的“第二步”原本是一个暴力预防项目，目前被美国和加拿大约2.5万所学校采用。
At Ella Flagg Young School in Chicago, I sat in on a sixth-grade Second Step class taught by Latasha Little-Brown, the dedicated “social-emotional learning coordinator” who has worked at the school for nine years. That day, Little-Brown began by playing a Second Step video featuring good friends, Lydia and Maria. In the story, Maria’s aunt gives her a cool new necklace, which has beads made of paper. Lydia loves it, so Maria lets her borrow it. But as Lydia is walking back from the party, it suddenly starts to rain and the necklace is ruined. Lydia doesn’t know what to do.
在芝加哥艾拉弗拉格杨格学校(Ella Flagg Young School)，我旁听了一节六年级的“第二步”课，授课老师是已在该校工作了9年的娜塔莎·里特尔-布朗(Latasha Little-Brown)，一位热诚的“社交情绪学习协调人”。那天，里特尔-布朗首先播放了一段以好朋友莉迪亚和玛丽亚为主角的“第二步”视频。在这段故事中，玛丽亚的阿姨送给她一条新项链，串珠是用纸做的，非常漂亮。莉迪亚也很喜欢，所以玛丽亚就借给了她。但就在莉迪亚参加完聚会，正在回家的时候，一场大雨不期而至，这条项链就这样被毁了。莉迪亚不知道该怎么办。
In the teachers’ edition of the exercise, the goal is for students to write out the steps of an apology, including reparation. (Step 1: “Maria, I was wrong for taking the necklace and not caring for it properly.” Step 2: Offer to pay for the necklace.) Little-Brown nudged the students in this direction, until one boy — a chubby kid who had kept his jacket and backpack on during the entire class — finally raised his hand in frustration. Lydia hadn’t been negligent, he pointed out: she’d just been walking home and got soaked by a thunderstorm. How was the loss of the necklace her fault?
在教师用书中，这段练习的目标是让学生写出包括赔偿在内的道歉步骤（第一步：“玛丽亚，我拿了你的项链，但没有妥善保管，我错了。”第二步：主动提出购买一个新项链）。里特尔-布朗引导学生朝这个方向思考，直到一个男孩——在上课期间，这个胖乎乎的孩子一直穿着外套，背着背包——终于非常沮丧地举起了手。莉迪亚并非粗心大意，他指出：她只不过是在步行回家的时候被一场雷雨淋湿了。项链被毁的罪过怎么能算在她的头上呢？
Lawyering ensued. One girl insisted that Lydia could have put the necklace in her pocket, or balled it up in her hand — leading another student to argue that just clutching the necklace in a downpour wouldn’t have protected it. Meanwhile, Backpack Boy was still trying to parse the details of friendly obligation. If someone dumped a bucket of water on you as you walked by, he wanted to know, would that be your fault? What if someone robbed you or threatened you with a gun?
各种争辩接踵而至。一个女孩坚称，莉迪亚本可以把项链放在口袋里，或者揉成团捏在手中，这番话引来另一位学生争辩道，在倾盆大雨中只是用手紧握着，根本就保护不了项链。与此同时，“背包男孩”依然在解析朋友之责的细节。他想知道，要是你正在走路时有人给你倒一桶水，这是你的错吗？假使有人拦路抢劫，或者用枪威胁你，那又算谁的错？
Little-Brown allowed the debate to go on for several minutes, then moved crisply to the official point of the lesson: that once a thing is in your possession, you are responsible for it. The class ended with each group writing the steps of restitution on a piece of poster board. It was a disappointing moment. Though Little-Brown was engaged and thoughtful, the class still felt more like a rote exercise in social obligation than a nuanced exploration of a complicated issue. It was hard to believe that the resolution was satisfying to someone like Backpack Boy — one of the few students who seemed eager to wrestle with the knotty issues on which justice can turn.
里特尔-布朗任由辩论持续了几分钟，然后干净利落地转向这节课的正式要点：一旦一件东西在你手中，你就应对它负责。最终，每个小组在一块宣传板上写下了赔偿步骤。这是一个令人失望的时刻。虽然里特尔-布朗恪尽职守，思虑周到，但这节课依然感觉更像是一次关于社交责任的机械式练习，而不是细致入微地探索一个复杂的问题。很难想象这种解决方式会让“背包男孩”感到满意——他是少数几位似乎渴望解决这些涉及正义的棘手问题的学生之一。
Later, I mentioned this incident to Marc Brackett. Like many researchers, Brackett worries about the spread of programs like Second Step, in part because they can be overly formulaic. He is also concerned that they can serve as social-emotional placebos, allowing administrators to seem as if they’re working to fix a troubled school without actually doing anything. “When the superintendent wants to show the state that they bought their anti-bully program, or whatever, they buy these kits,” he said. “But then the box just sits on the shelf."(To be fair, Brackett’s program is one of Second Step’s competitors. Duffell says that Second Step is “dedicated to good-quality implementation” and now has an online system to monitor how teachers use the program.)
后来，我向马克·布兰克特提起了这件事。像许多研究者一样，布兰克特担心诸如“第二步”之类的课程将进一步蔓延，部分原因是它们可能过于公式化。他还担心这些课程或将成为社交情绪学习领域的安慰剂，让行政官员觉得他们似乎正在致力于改进一所陷于困境的学校，而实际上他们任何事情都没做。“当学校管理者想给州当局显示他们认同政府的反校园欺凌计划，或其他什么计划时，他们就购买这些工具包，”他说。“但随后，这些工具箱就被束之高阁。”（说句公道话，布兰克特的课程也是“第二步”的竞争者之一。达菲尔说，“第二步致力于高质量的实施过程，”现在还设置了一个监控老师使用方式的在线系统。）
Brackett’s program, Ruler, created with David Caruso and others, is more intensive. A school interested in trying Ruler must sign a three-year commitment that involves regular training, including Brackett’s four-day “Anchors of Emotional Intelligence” workshop, which costs $1,800 per person. Though Brackett emphasized to me that Ruler is used by a variety of schools, in a range of income brackets, the program costs significantly more than Second Step, especially when teacher and staff training is factored in. (Only about 500 schools use Ruler.)
布兰克特和大卫·卡鲁索等人创建的“标尺”(Ruler)课程更加密集。有兴趣尝试“标尺”的学校必须签署一项为期三年，涉及定期培训的承诺，其中包括为期四天、由布兰克特主持的“情商之锚”研讨会(Anchors of Emotional Intelligence)，参与者每人需支付1800美元。尽管布兰克特强调称，“标尺”被收入区间大小不等的各类学校采用，但该课程的成本明显高于“第二步”，尤其是把教师和其他人员的培训费用考虑进去之后。（目前仅有约500所学校使用这种课程。）
In the Ruler cosmology, social-emotional lessons aren’t restricted to one class a week, or even to one class a day. Rather, such moments of observation are expected to pervade every class, from English and math to music and P.E. “Emotional skills aren’t something that develop overnight,” Brackett emphasized. “For most people, it will take a lot of practice.”
在“标尺”的宇宙观中，社交情绪课并不限于每周一节，甚至不限于一天一节。恰恰相反，从英语、数学到音乐、体育，开发者期望这种观察时刻遍及每一节课。布兰克特强调称，“情绪技能不是一夜之间就能够锤炼出来的东西。对于大多数人来说，掌握这些技能需要经历大量的实践。”
Starting in kindergarten, students begin each day by locating themselves on the “mood meter,” a set of four colored squares — blue for moods like malaise, yellow for excitement — that represent the four quadrants of emotional experience. (The other squares are red, for anger, and green, for calm.) The goal is to develop children’s capacity for self-reflection and critical thinking. “We never say, ‘The best thing to do is to take three deep breaths,’ ” Brackett told me. “For some people, taking deep breaths works. But for me, when I take deep breaths, I just think about how I can wring your neck.”
从幼儿园开始，学生每天首先要在“情绪仪表”(mood meter)上确定自己的位置。这种计量仪由四个彩色方块组成，意指情绪体验的四个象限——蓝色代表不舒服，黄色代表幸福，红色代表愤怒，绿色代表平静。其目标是培养孩子的自我反省和批判性思维能力。“我们绝对不会说，‘最好的办法是做三个深呼吸，’”布兰克特对我说。“对于一些人来说，做深呼吸很有效果。但当我做深呼吸的时候，我只是想着如何才能拧断你的脖子。”
Growing up, Brackett told me, he was bullied “horrifically” — the kind of experience he believes Ruler could help prevent. Not long after being hired at Yale, he said, he went back to his old school, hoping to persuade it to implement the program. “I said, ‘I’ll give you a gift that would normally cost $100,000’ ” — what the Ruler program can amount to, with all the training. “They said, ‘Oh, that’s O.K. — we already have a speaker on emotional intelligence.’ ”
布兰克特告诉我，在孩提时代，他遭受过“令人恐惧的”欺凌——他认为“标尺”可以预防这类经历。被耶鲁大学聘用后不久，他返回母校，希望说服校方实施这个项目。“我说，‘我打算赠送一个通常需要耗资10万美元的礼物，’”——“标尺”课程包括所有培训在内的总开支——“他们说，‘哦，不用了，我们已经有了一位传播情商技巧的演讲者了。’”
Even now, Brackett says, many educators don’t grasp the importance of emotional awareness. For Ruler to work, he maintains, the tools need to be embraced not just by students but also by teachers and administrators. “They have to be able to walk around that school and say: ‘Hey, where are you on the mood meter? I’m in the yellow right now. I’m feeling excited, how about you?’ or ‘Man, I had a really tough morning. I had to take a meta-moment because that parent was so crazy, I really had to manage my emotions.’ ”
布拉克特说，许多教育工作者即使现在也没有领悟到情绪意识的重要性。他坚称，要想让“标尺”发挥作用，这些工具就不仅需要得到学生的应用，还需要被老师和学校管理者采纳。“他们必须得在校园四处走走，并且说：‘嘿，你在情绪仪表上处于啥位置？我目前在黄色区。我感到非常兴奋，你怎么样？’或者说，‘哥们，我刚刚经历了一个非常难熬的早晨。我必须得好好提升一下心态，因为那个家长太疯狂了，我真的必须调节我的情绪。’”
Brackett’s approach may strike some as overkill, but a growing number of social-emotional learning programs now offer separate training for teachers. “It’s like that old airplane maxim,” Mark Greenberg told me. “Put your own mask on before you put your child’s on. You have to help yourself first.” Greenberg notes that a great teacher can change how students learn and behave, creating a climate that is engaged, caring and respectful. In theory, S.E.L. training could help more teachers develop those skills. “The one constant in education research has been the power of these great teachers,” Greenberg said. “What has been less clear is how you bottle that.”
一些人或许会认为布拉克特的方式有些矫枉过正，但越来越多的社交情绪学习课程现在为教师提供单独的培训。“这就像那句古老的乘飞机格言，”马克·格林伯格告诉我。“在你给孩子戴上面罩之前，先给你自己戴上。你首先得自助。”格林伯格指出，一位好老师能够改变学生的学习和行为方式，营造积极参与、有爱心、有礼貌的氛围。从理论上讲，SEL培训可以帮助更多教师发展这些技能。“教育研究的一个常数向来是这些好老师的力量。一直不太清楚的是，你是如何贮藏它的，”格林伯格如是说道。
Located high in the hills a few miles north of Berkeley, Prospect Sierra, a private elementary school, is also a Ruler school. It’s a cheerful place filled with the subtle accessories of wealth: airy classrooms outfitted with iMacs and a sprawling sports field with an unobstructed view of the San Francisco Bay.
在伯克利以北几英里的高山上，坐落着一所名为“山脊景色”(Prospect Sierra)的私立小学，该校也采用了“标尺”课程。这是一个令人愉快的地方，彰显财富的配套设施随处可见：通风的教室配备了许多iMac电脑；站在宽阔的运动场上，美丽的旧金山湾尽收眼底，一览无遗。
Walking the halls one day last spring, I spied posters for empathy (“I say what I am feeling, and listen empathetically to what the other person is saying”), with examples of various mood meters, including one made by first graders that struck me as both impressive and alarming. Alongside “energetic,” “peaceful,” and “curious,” the meter listed “frantic,” “lonely,” “depressed,” “excluded” and “joyless.”
春天的一天，当我穿过教室的走廊时，窥探到一幅幅以同理心为主题的海报（“我说我的感受，并且带着同理心倾听其他人”），上面还有各种各样的情绪仪表，其中一年级学生的作品不仅给我留下了深刻的印象，也让我震惊不已。在“充满活力”、“平静”和“好奇”旁边，仪表上还列举了“忙乱”、“孤独”、“郁闷”、“受排挤”和“无趣”等词汇。
In the afternoon, I joined a P.E. class to watch a capture-the-flag-style game, in which teams tried to retrieve colored banners without being tagged. The teacher, a lean, blond woman named Jacqueline Byrne Bressan, began by having students sit in a circle to discuss problems that came up in the last game and how they could be prevented this time around. One boy, whose silky brown hair gave him the look of a miniature British soccer star, raised his hand to note that “some people” hadn’t been willing to “roshambo” — do “rock, paper, scissors” — the school’s accepted practice for settling disputes over whether a player had been tagged or not. When Bressan asked what he did about that, the boy sat up. “I told them they weren’t playing fair,” he said solemnly. “And then I let it go.”
当天下午，我参加了一节体育课，观看一群孩子做一种夺旗游戏——各队尝试着在没有被“点出局”的情况下取回彩色旗帜。身形瘦削、金发碧眼的杰奎琳·伯恩·布雷桑(Jacqueline Byrne Bressan)老师首先让学生坐成一圈，讨论上一场游戏的问题，以及这次怎样做才能防止它们再次出现。一个长着柔滑的棕色头发，看起来像是某位英国足球明星的男孩举手发言称，“有些人”不愿意做“剪刀石头布”——这是该校解决某位参赛者是否被点出局这一争端的习惯作法。布雷桑问这个男孩如何应对这种情况，他随即坐了起来，认真地说道：“我告诉他们这样做不公平，然后就任由它去了。”
Not long after this discussion, I watched as a beefy blond kid in a red shirt and white Nikes was patently tagged by a small brown-haired girl, but kept running. “You’re tagged!” the girl yelled. Another boy echoed her: “You’re tagged!” The boy yelled back, “No, I’m not!” Glancing at Bressan, he slowed briefly to a walk — then moved furtively around the edge of the field and sneaked back into the game.
没过多久，我就看到一个穿红衬衫、白耐克鞋，看起来非常健壮的金发男孩显然被一个棕发小女孩点到了，但他依然继续往前跑。“你被点出局了！”女孩大喊道。另一个男孩遥相呼应：“你被点出局了！”金发男孩大声回答说，“不，我没有！”他瞥了一眼布雷桑，放慢速度，走了一会——随后偷偷摸摸地在场地周围溜达，并伺机潜回游戏之中。
Watching this, Bressan smiled dryly. The beefy boy, she observed, is “one of the kids who really struggles” with basic social-emotional concepts like fairness and accountability. But she also said she felt that he was gradually improving. “It used to be, he wouldn’t roshambo at all,” she said. “Or he’d lie and say that he did. Now it may take a minute, but he usually does it.”
看到这一幕，布雷桑淡淡一笑。她观察到，这个健壮的男孩是“真正难以掌握”诸如公平和问责这类社交情绪概念的孩子之一。但她还表示，她觉得这个孩子正在逐步改善。“他过去根本就不屑于做剪刀石头布，”她说。“或者撒谎说他做了。现在他或许会拖延片刻，但通常都会做。”
While it was hard to tell if roshambo was teaching deeper lessons of fairness and problem-solving, Bressan told me that it radically cut the number of arguments she had to resolve, and also made it easy to identify the kids who needed more help socially. She also said that it gave the other students the moral authority to hold another player accountable.
布雷桑告诉我，尽管很难判断“剪刀石头布”是否正在帮助学生进一步领悟关于公平性和解决问题的教益，但它显著地削减了她必须亲自出面解决的争端数量，也让她更容易确定哪些孩子需要在社交方面获得更多帮助。她也表示，这种方式给予了其他学生问责另一名参赛者的道德权威。
There seemed to be something to this. While the game had its share of elementary-school drama (at one point, a girl started to cry after a boy bragged that he was faster than her “by a million miles”), it was noticeable how quickly most kids moved on. A tiny blond girl who was in tears over being pushed — her new white jeans now had a grass stain on the knee — handled the matter by walking once around the field, then talking about it in the postgame debriefing. “We talked about not tagging too hard during the game, but it was still happening,” she said, sounding surprisingly sanguine.
似乎是这样。虽然这种游戏不缺乏小学校园中常见的戏剧性场面（在一个时点上，一个女孩开始哭泣，因为有个男孩吹嘘称自己要比这个女孩快“一百万英里”），但显而易见的是，大多数孩子都在迅速进步。一个金发小女孩被推倒了，弄得白色新牛仔裤的膝盖处染上了一片青草污渍，流着眼泪的她绕着场地走了一圈，在赛后总结时才谈起了这件事。她说：“我们说过做游戏时不要用力推搡，但这样的事情仍然在发生。”令人惊讶的是，她听起来非常自信。
When I mentioned this to Bressan, she nodded. “I think it makes a difference sometimes for them just to be able to say it,” she said. “Just to have it discussed.”
当我向布雷桑提到这一点时，她点了点头。“我认为，对于他们来说，有时候只要能够说出问题，一起讨论问题，就是一个巨大的进步，”她说。
Talking later, Bressan told me that in her last job, at an inner-city school in New York, students behaved differently; when one kid was punched in the stomach during recess, she recalled, he didn’t even go to the teacher. By comparison, it was hard to know how the kids at Prospect Sierra might fare in the “real world.” But she added, “The real question is: What kind of world do we want?”
在随后的交谈中，布雷桑告诉我，她此前在纽约内城区一所学校工作，那些学生的行为举止完全是另一番模样。她回忆说，有个孩子的肚子挨了一拳后，甚至没有去找老师。相比之下，目前很难了解山脊景色小学的孩子将如何应对“真实的世界”。但她补充说，“真正的问题是：我们想要一个什么样的世界？”
That question is one that Marc Brackett thinks about often. He envisions a generation of kids who have grown up immersed in an environment of total emotional awareness — who receive new insights at the developmentally appropriate times, and in deliberately constructive ways.
这也是马克·布兰克特经常思考的问题。他设想，在情绪意识环境中成长起来的一代孩子，将在发展合宜的时候，以有意采用的建设性方式接受新见解。
“If you have that kind of instruction, from kindergarten,” he said, “I think that in 20 years the world will be a very different place.”
“我觉得，如果你从幼儿园开始就接受这种指导，那么在20年后，这个世界就将变成另一番模样，”他说。