The night sky was clear above the clouds, and the last glimmer of a setting half-moon had faded when Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, cruising at 35,000 feet over the Gulf of Thailand, approached the border between Malaysian and Vietnamese airspace on its usual route to Beijing. What happened next should have been routine for a twice-daily milk run between two of Asia’s most important cities. Air traffic controllers outside Kuala Lumpur usually hand the jet off to their counterparts in Ho Chi Minh City as the flight turns northeast toward the Chinese capital.
云层之上是清澈的夜空，即将落下的半月散射出的辉光已经褪去，此时马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的370航班正在泰国湾上空3.5万英尺（约合1万米）的高度巡航。这架飞机正沿着前往北京的常规航线飞行，即将到达马来西亚和越南领空的边界。接下来发生的，本应该是亚洲极为重要的两个城市之间一天两次的例行飞行中惯常的情形：飞机转向东北向中国首都飞去时，吉隆坡郊外的空管人员，通常会把飞机交给位于越南胡志明市的空管人员监控。
But in those early hours of March 8, pilots flying nearby heard an unusual crescendo of chatter on the radio frequencies used by radar control in Vietnam and Malaysia. Air traffic personnel in both countries were trying and failing to reach the plane.
然而在3月8日凌晨，经过附近区域的飞行员却在越南和马来西亚雷达监控的无线电频段里，听到了一阵异常的交谈，声音越来越大。两国空管人员都想联络这架飞机，但都没有成功。
“Any stations in contact with Malaysian 370, please relay.”
“能与马航370联系的空管站，请转达。”
Vietnamese and Malaysian controllers asked one aircraft after another to radio the jet. Pilots listened as one plane after another tried and heard only static.
越南和马来西亚的空管人员向一架又一架的飞机发出要求，让它们通过无线电联络370航班。飞行员们听到一架又一家飞机尝试联络，但回音只有静电干扰的杂音。
“Malaysian 370, this is Malaysian 88.”
马航370请回答，这里是马航88。”
“Malaysian 370, this is Malaysian 52.”
“马航370请回答，这里是马航52。”
People familiar with the calls, describing them for the first time, said they were calm, even laconic. The pilots trying to reach the airliner had no reason to believe it had suffered anything more than an ordinary radio malfunction.
这是相关知情人第一次向外界描述这些呼叫的情景。他们表示呼叫过程很平静，甚至只是寥寥几个词。尝试联络370班机的飞行员们都以为，这架航班无非是出现了普通的无线电故障。
But those initial attempts to find a plane in the skies would soon evolve into an urgent multinational search operation spanning land and sea in two hemispheres. They signaled the start of what has become perhaps the most perplexing case in modern aviation — one that investigators say may take years to solve, or could remain a mystery forever.
然而最初在空中寻找这架飞机的尝试，很快就会扩大为跨越两个半球、涵盖陆地和海面的多国紧急搜救行动。从那时开始的寻找飞机的努力，现在可能已经成为现代航空史上最令人困惑的案例。调查人员称可能要花数年才能解答，也可能永远都会是一个谜。
More than two weeks after Flight 370 disappeared, unbridled speculation surrounds the unfolding global drama. So much is uncertain about what happened on the plane, and so much of what has been disclosed by Malaysian authorities has been contradicted, that hardly any theory of its fate can be easily dismissed. On Saturday, the authorities said a Chinese satellite had made a new sighting of a possible object floating in the southern Indian Ocean in the area that is now the focus of the search, and China was sending ships to investigate.
马航370航班消失超过两周后，围绕这起全球瞩目的事件已经产生了许多漫无边际的猜想。飞机到底发生了什么存在极大的不确定性，而马来西亚官方透露的信息中又有很多相互矛盾，所以关于其命运的任何推断都不能轻易排除。上周六，官方表示在南印度洋上目前重点搜索的区域，一颗中国卫星新发现了一块可能与事件有关的漂浮物，中国已经派遣船只前去调查。
Based on dozens of interviews with people whose lives were touched by the plane as well as with outside experts and investigators from the two dozen countries searching for answers, this report presents a portrait of Flight 370 and the search to find it using what is known to date. But by necessity, it is an incomplete picture.
通过数十次采访，本文揭示了370航班的概况，也记述了基于目前所知的信息搜寻飞机的过程。受访对象包括飞机失联后生活被掀起波澜的人们，也包括外部专家和参与搜寻的来自二十多个国家的调查人员。然而鉴于信息有限，本文实难做到全面彻底。
A Routine Night
例行夜航
Malaysia Airlines flies from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing twice daily, nonstop. The red-eye, departing at 12:35 a.m. and landing at 6:30 a.m., can carry a hodgepodge of travelers: vacationing  Malaysian families, European businessmen pursuing deals, Chinese tourists returning home after visiting relatives or shopping.
马来西亚航空公司每天有两班从吉隆坡飞往北京的直飞航班。午夜12点35出发、清晨6点30分到达的那趟红眼航班上，有各种各样的乘客：度假的马来西亚家庭、洽谈生意的欧洲商人，以及探亲或购物回来的中国游客。 
Passengers are advised to arrive at least two hours in advance. On March 7, a delegation of 34 Chinese artists, relatives and organizers who had spent the past several days participating in an art exhibit in Kuala Lumpur played it safe with the city’s unpredictable Friday night traffic and arrived about 8 p.m.
机场建议乘客至少提前两小时到达。为了保险起见，3月7日，由34名中国艺术家、亲属和组织者组成的代表团晚上8点左右就到了机场，以防吉隆坡难以预测的周五夜航班会出现什么问题。过去几天，他们在吉隆坡参加艺术展览。
Perhaps the most prominent of the artists was the flight’s oldest passenger, Liu Rusheng, 77, a calligrapher who had published an essay about how much he treasured life because he had “cheated death” six times, beginning when, as a baby, he was abandoned temporarily by his parents as they fled Japanese soldiers invading China.
或许这些艺术家中最著名的就是航班最年长的乘客、77岁的刘如生。这位书法家曾发表一篇文章，讲述了自己如何珍惜生命，这是因为他曾六次“与死神擦肩”。当他还在襁褓之中时，父母就曾因为要躲避入侵中国的日本士兵而把他暂时丢在家中。
Mr. Liu had “the energy of a young man,” recalled Daniel Liau, the delegation’s host, who accompanied the travelers to the airport and helped them check their luggage. They stood chatting under the modernist scalloped ceilings of the main terminal for about 90 minutes. Later, after the group had passed through security and taken the monorail to the satellite terminal, Mr. Liau called them one last time.
接待代表团的主办方负责人廖伟成(Daniel Liau)回忆道，刘如生“拥有年轻人的活力”。当时，廖伟成陪他们来到机场，并帮他们检查了行李。他们站在主航站楼充满现代主义气息的扇形屋顶下聊了大概一个半小时。之后，在代表团通过安检，乘轨道车来到小候机楼时，廖伟成给他们打了最后一通电话。
“How are the artists?” he recalled asking one of the organizers, Hou Bo, who replied they had already reached the gate. “Everybody is O.K.,” Mr. Hou assured him.
“艺术家们还好吗？”他回忆自己曾这样询问作为组织者之一的侯波。他说他们已经到了登机口。“大家都很好，”侯波告诉他。
Boarding began about midnight. The airline would have allowed the elderly — including Mr. Liu and his wife, Bao Yuanhua, 73 — and the families traveling with the two infants booked on the flight to get settled first. Next came the passengers holding passes for the 35 seats in business class.
大约午夜时分，乘客开始登机。航空公司会让老人——其中包括刘如生和他73岁的妻子鲍媛华——以及搭乘该航班的两个婴儿的家人先登机。随后才轮到公务舱的35名乘客。
Philip Wood, 50, an IBM executive from Texas and a regular on the flight because he was relocating from Beijing to Kuala Lumpur, was in coach, but hoped to be upgraded. He had long legs and a platinum frequent-flier card, said his partner, Sarah Bajc, 48, a teacher.
来自德克萨斯州的IBM管理人员、50岁的菲利普·伍德(Philip Wood)是这趟航班的常客，因为他正打算从北京搬到吉隆坡。他当时坐在经济舱，但是希望能够得到升舱。他的伴侣、48岁的教师萨拉·巴伊茨(Sarah Bajc)说，他的腿很长，而且还有一张白金常旅客卡。
Ms. Bajc said she exchanged a dozen text messages with him before the flight about the movers, scheduled to arrive at their home in Beijing the next morning. “We discussed the state of packing, what still needed to be done,” she said. His last message came just before he left for the airport.
巴伊茨说，在乘坐这个航班之前，她与伍德发了数十条短信讨论搬家事宜。按计划，搬运工将于次日上午来到他们位于北京的家中。“我们讨论了打包的情况，以及还要做些什么，”她说。她收到的最后一条信息是在他去往机场之前发出的。
Others on the flight were just passing through Kuala Lumpur, including Shi Xianwen, 26, a new father returning to China from a business trip to Australia. At the airport in Perth, he spent 40 minutes picking out a bracelet watch for his wife, whose birthday was approaching, an employee at the duty-free shop said.
飞机上有些乘客只是在吉隆坡转机而已，26岁的石贤文就是其中之一。才当爸爸的他刚刚结束出差，准备从澳大利亚回到中国。珀斯机场免税店的店员称，因为妻子的生日马上就到了，他花40分钟给妻子挑选了一只手镯式腕表。
And two passengers boarded using stolen passports: Pouria Nourmohammadi Mehrdad, 19, and Seyed Mohammed Reza Delavar, 29, Iranian men described by Interpol as migrants being smuggled into Europe.
还有两名持偷来的护照登机的乘客：伊朗人普里奥·努尔姆哈马迪·迈赫达德(Pouria Nourmohammadi Mehrdad)和德拉瓦尔·赛义德·穆罕默德·雷扎(Delavar Seyed Mohammad Reza)，两人分别为19岁和29岁。国际刑警组织(Interpol)称，这两人正试图偷渡到欧洲。
Mohammad Mallaeibasir, 18, an information technology student in Kuala Lumpur, said the pair stayed in his apartment the night before they left. Mr. Mehrdad, a friend from high school in Tehran, told him he was starting a new life in Hamburg, Germany, where his mother was waiting. “He was quite nervous,” Mr. Mallaeibasir recalled. “I could see it on his face.”
在吉隆坡学习信息技术的18岁学生穆罕默德·马拉艾巴西尔(Mohammad Mallaeibasir)说，这两人出发前在他的住所里度过了一晚。迈赫达德是他在德黑兰念高中时的朋友。迈赫达德告诉他，自己即将在德国汉堡开始新生活，他的母亲已经在那里等他了。“他非常紧张，”马拉艾巴西尔回忆道。“我能从他的脸上看出来。”
The next night, he drove them to the airport and offered to help them check in, but they insisted on entering separately, Mr. Delavar first. The two high school buddies waited in the car for five to 10 minutes, smoking cigarettes, before Mr. Mehrdad got out to leave.
次日晚上，他开车送他们来到机场，还主动要求帮他们办理登机手续，但是他们坚持分开进入机场，随后德拉瓦尔先走。剩下的两名高中伙伴在车里抽着烟等了5到10分钟，然后迈赫达德也下车离开。
Mr. Mallaeibasir gave him a hug, told him to have a safe flight and watched as his friend carried a large backpack and a laptop computer bag into the terminal. That was the last he saw of him.
马拉艾巴西尔给了他一个拥抱并祝福他旅途安全，还目送这位背着大大的双肩包和一个手提电脑包的朋友走进了航站楼。这是他最后一次见到他。
The Airplane
飞机
The plane the passengers boarded was a Boeing 777, one of the world’s most popular and advanced passenger jets, and Boeing’s first fly-by-wire commercial aircraft, in which electronic controls replaced manual ones. Pilots send commands that are conveyed to the wings and other components, and a computer helps keep the plane steady.
乘客们乘坐的是波音(Boeing)777型飞机，它是世界上最受欢迎、最先进的客机机型，也是波音公司首款配有遥控自动驾驶仪的商务机型——飞机用电子控制系统代替了手动操作系统。飞行员发布的指令被传送到机翼和其他部件上，然后电脑会帮飞机保持平稳运行。
The “Triple Seven,” as it often called, has all but replaced the 747 because it is cheaper to operate and can fly up to 16 hours without stopping to refuel. It also has one of the industry’s best safety records, with only two serious accidents in the 19 years it has been in service.
波音777型飞机经常被称作“三七”，它几乎快要完全取代747，这是因为它运营成本较低，而且还能在不停下加油的情况下飞行长达16小时。它的安全记录也是业内最好的，在投入使用的19年间只发生过两起严重事故。
Malaysia Airlines, the nation’s state-run carrier, began using the Boeing 777 in 1997 and eventually had 15 in its fleet. One of them, the 404th model to roll off Boeing’s assembly line in Everett, Wash., was delivered to the airline in May 2002 and registered with tail number 9M-MRO. This was the plane used for Flight 370 that has disappeared.
马航是马来西亚的国有航空公司，它从1997年开始使用波音777型飞机，目前一共拥有15架这种型号的飞机。2002年5月，来自波音公司位于华盛顿埃弗里特的装配线的第404架波音777飞机被送到马航，以9M-MRO为机尾编号进行了登记。这就是370航班所使用的那架现已失踪的飞机。
Malaysia Airlines has said the jet has been involved in only one previous safety incident. On Aug. 9, 2012, the tip of one of its wings broke off after it clipped the tail of a China Eastern Airlines Airbus A340 while taxiing at Shanghai Pudong International Airport. No one was hurt. Boeing said it sent a team of engineers and mechanics to remove and replace the damaged wing sections, and returned the plane to service after testing.
马航声称，这架飞机之前只出过一次安全事件。2012年8月9日，这架飞机在上海浦东国际机场滑行时与中国东方航空公司的空客A340飞机发生剐蹭，在碰到后者的尾翼后，它一侧机翼的末梢也被损坏。此次事件中没有人员伤亡。波音公司称，他们派了一组工程师和机械师去移除并更换损坏的机翼部分，并在测试后让飞机继续服役。
Boeing recommends a light maintenance inspection of the 777 after about 500 hours of flight time. Known as an “A check,” the inspection usually is conducted in a hangar by a team of about 15 engineers working about 10 hours, often overnight. Malaysia Airlines said the jet’s last A check took place on Feb. 23, and uncovered no problems.
波音公司建议，777客机每飞行500小时后进行一次轻度保养，称作“A检查”(A check)。这种检查通常在飞机库里进行，由15位工程师工作10小时完成，并且经常通宵作业。马航称，这架客机最后一次A检查在2月23日进行，并没有发现任何问题。
By the time it pulled up to the gate at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on March 8, the plane had completed more than 7,500 flights and clocked over 53,400 hours in the air, according to Flightglobal, a news and data service for the aviation sector. That put it well within the average economic life of 23 years for a wide-body passenger jet.
据航空领域新闻和数据服务机构Flightglobal的数据，当飞机3月8日停在吉隆坡国际机场的登机口的时候，它已经完成了7500多班次的飞行，累计空中飞行时间超过53400小时。这个时长处在宽体客机的23年平均服务年限之内。
In other words, there was little to distinguish this plane from the roughly 1,170 other Boeing 777s in use. That is why it is so crucial to determine if the plane’s disappearance was due to any malfunction or defect related to its design, build or engineering. “The industry does not like uncertainty,” said Mark Rosenker, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. “We will find out what happened.”
换句话说，这架飞机和其他大约1170架使用中的波音777没有什么区别。这也是为什么确定飞机失踪是否与机械故障或者设计、建造和工程缺陷有关是格外重要的。“这个行业不喜欢不确定性，”美国国家交通安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)的前主席马克·罗森克(Mark Rosenker)说。“我们会找出究竟发生了什么。”
Boarding
登机
As they stepped onto the plane, the 227 passengers of Flight 370 were greeted by the flight attendants, four women in sarong kebayas and six men in gray three-piece suits. Some distributed hand towels, juice and newspapers in business class; others helped those in economy find their seats.
当370航班的227名乘客踏进飞机的时候，受到了空乘人员的迎接。空乘人员中的四位女士穿着马来西亚布裙制服，六位男士衣着三件套灰色西装。他们中的一些人给公务舱的乘客发手巾、果汁和报纸，另一些人在帮助经济舱的乘客寻找座位。
Outside, ground crews loaded the passenger luggage into the jet’s cargo hold, which can carry up to six pallets and 14 shipping containers. The airline said no hazardous or valuable goods were on the flight. But among the cargo were a “significant” number of lithium batteries — which can be flammable — more than is typically sent in a shipment, one American official said.
飞机外面，地勤人员将乘客的行李装进飞机的货舱里。舱内可以容纳6个货物托盘和14个集装箱。航空公司称，飞机里没有危险或贵重物品。不过，一名美国官员称，货舱中有“大量”的锂电池——具有可燃性——比通常的装载量要多。
After the doors closed, the chief steward, Andrew Nari, would have welcomed the passengers via the loudspeaker and reminded them to turn off their cellphones. Before shutting off his own, he sent a message to his mother. “It was just a normal SMS telling me that his plane would fly off soon,” she later told The Star, a local newspaper.
乘务长安德鲁·纳里(Andrew Nari)在舱门关闭后通过广播欢迎了乘客，并提醒他们关闭手机。关机前，他给妈妈发了一条短信。“就是一条平常的短信，告诉我飞机很快要起飞了，”她后来告诉当地报纸《星报》(The Star)。
In the cockpit were the pilots: the captain, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, who joined the airline in 1981 and had 18,365 hours of flying experience, and his first officer, Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27, who was transitioning to the Boeing 777 from the airline’s narrow-body fleet.
在驾驶舱内的是两名驾驶员：53岁的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)，他于1981年加入马航，有着18365小时的飞行经验；以及他的副驾驶，27岁的法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)，他正在从驾驶窄体客机过渡到波音777。
After nudging away from the gate, the plane taxied to runway 32R. The cabin lights would have dimmed before one of the pilots asked the crew to be seated for takeoff. With two Rolls-Royce Trent engines, each capable of generating 92,000 pounds of thrust, the jet raced down the 2.5-mile-long runway and lifted off at 41 minutes after midnight. As the plane banked and climbed, some passengers might have spotted the glow of Kuala Lumpur and perhaps the Petronas Towers in the distance.
从登机口推出后，飞机滑行至32R跑道。客舱的灯光会在一名驾驶员要求乘务人员坐好准备起飞前被调暗。客机的两个罗尔斯-罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)引擎，各自可以产生9.2万磅的推力。客机滑向2.5英里长（约合4公里）的跑道，随后在午夜12点41分起飞。在飞机转弯爬升的时候，有些乘客也许从高空中注意到了吉隆坡和双子塔的光亮。
At 1:07 a.m., as the jet approached the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, ground crews received what the authorities have described as a routine text message from the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, or Acars, which sends regular updates on the condition of the plane by radio or satellite.
午夜1点07分，在飞机靠近马来半岛东海岸时，地勤人员收到来自飞机通信寻址与报告系统(Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System，简称Acars)的报告。当局形容其为一种例行的文本信息。Acars系统定期通过无线电或者卫星发出关于飞机状态的更新。
By then, the first beverage service of the flight was most likely underway: soft drinks, juice and peanuts in economy; and in business, various drinks, including Champagne, along with a snack such as charcoal-grilled chicken and lamb satay in peanut sauce. The in-flight entertainment system offered a wide selection of movies.
在那时，第一次的餐饮服务很可能已经开始了：经济舱中会提供汽水、果汁和花生；在公务舱中，选项则是包括香槟在内的不同种类的饮品，以及碳烤鸡肉和沙爹羊肉配花生酱这样的小吃。机上娱乐系统有多种多样的电影可供选择。
Air traffic control in Subang, outside Kuala Lumpur, followed the plane by tracking its transponder, a device that “squawks” or emits an identifying signal in response to a signal from radar. The night began with Flight 370 squawking code 2157 and reporting altitude, speed and bearing.
位于吉隆坡郊区梳邦的空管通过应答器跟踪飞机的行程。应答器会“请求代码”，或对雷达信号发出回应的识别信号。那天晚上，370航班请求的代码为2157，报告了其高度、速度以及方位。
As the plane approached Vietnamese airspace, Subang informed the pilots that they were being transferred to radar control in Ho Chi Minh City. At 1:19 a.m., a voice identified by the authorities as that of the first officer, Mr. Fariq, replied, “All right, good night.”
随着飞机临近越南领空，梳邦空管通知驾驶员，他们即将被移交给胡志明市的雷达管控人员。午夜1点19分，一个声音回复，“好的，晚安。”当局确认，这个声音来自副驾驶法里克。
Two minutes later, Flight 370’s transponder stopped responding. It is unclear whether someone turned a dial on an instrument panel between the pilot and co-pilot and put the transponder in standby mode, or whether a malfunction caused it to go quiet.
两分钟后，370航班的应答器停止应答。尚不明朗的是，究竟是有人旋转了驾驶与副驾驶之间的仪器控制面板上的开关转钮，从而让应答器处于待机状态；还是故障导致应答器停止工作？
One moment, radar showed the plane traveling northwest at 542 miles per hour. The next, it was gone.
前一刻，雷达显示这架客机以542英里的时速向西北方向飞去。下一刻，它就消失了。
The military in Vietnam marked the time at 43 seconds past 1:20 a.m.
根据越南军方的记录，此时是1点20分43秒。
Mystery Signal
神秘信号
As air traffic controllers struggled to re-establish contact with Flight 370, military radar at the Butterworth air force base on Malaysia’s west coast picked up an unidentified aircraft near where the plane disappeared.
就在空管员努力与370航班恢复联系的同时，马来西亚西海岸的北海空军基地的军用雷达上出现了一架不明飞行器的信号，方位就在该航班消失地点的附近。
But the watch team, normally an officer and three enlisted personnel, either failed to notice the signal or decided not to designate and track it as a “zombie,” which would have pushed the information up the chain of command and possibly alerted air command.
雷达监控小组通常由一名军官与三名士兵组成。但当时的小组，要么是未能注意到信号，要么就是决定不将其作为“僵尸”标出并追踪。如果他们标识了，本会将相关信息层层上报，并可能向空军指挥部门发出警报。
At a briefing on the base the next night, about 80 air force personnel were told there was “no proof” the unidentified signal showed the missing plane making a sharp turn, flying back across Peninsular Malaysia and then turning again and heading northwest over the Strait of Malacca, a person familiar with the situation said.
知情人士透露，在第二天晚上的基地通报会上，约80名空军人员被告知，“没有证据”表明，这个未知信号显示的是失踪航班大幅度转向，穿过马来半岛，然后再次转向，朝西北方向而去，飞过马六甲海峡。
But investigators now believe that is exactly what happened.
然而，调查人员如今认为，这恰恰就是事实。
The failure to recognize Flight 370 in the radar data — or refusal to do so, to avoid the embarrassment of admitting an unidentified plane had breached air defense — meant the Malaysian authorities continued to search in the seas to the east instead of the west of the peninsula. Military radar last recorded the signal at 2:22 a.m. about 200 nautical miles northwest of Butterworth, according to an image of the radar track.
无论是未能在雷达数据中识别出370航班，还是为了避免承认不明身份的飞机突破了空防的尴尬而拒绝识别，这都意味着，马来西亚当局继续在马来半岛东面的海域进行搜寻工作，而不是半岛西面。军用雷达追踪影像显示，最后一次记录到信号是夜里2点22分，在北海基地西北约200海里处。
The authorities also failed to move quickly on data that showed the plane continuing to fly nearly seven more hours: a series of regular handshake signals from the plane to a satellite seeking to determine if the aircraft was still in range.
在显示这架飞机继续飞行了近七个小时的数据方面，马来西亚当局也未能快速采取行动。这些数据是370航班发往卫星的一系列常规握手信号，为的是确认飞机是否仍在服务区内。
Chris McLaughlin, a vice president at Inmarsat, the satellite communications firm, said technicians pulled the logs of all transmissions from the plane within four hours of its disappearance. Then, after a day without sign of the plane, they began scouring the company’s databases for any trace of Flight 370.
卫星通讯公司Inmarsat的副总裁克里斯·麦克劳克林(Chris McLaughlin)表示，飞机失联四个小时内，公司的技术人员找出了来自这架航班的全部传输记录。接下来，飞机失踪一天后，他们开始仔细筛查公司的数据库，希望找到370航班的蛛丝马迹。
“We decided to go have another look at our network to see if there was any data that we had missed,” Mr. McLaughlin said. It turned out there was. Inmarsat technicians identified what appeared to be a series of fleeting “pings” between Flight 370, a satellite over the Indian Ocean and a ground station in Perth, Australia.
“我们决定再查一下公司的网络，看看我们是不是漏掉了什么数据，” 麦克劳克林说。结果的确有。Inmarsat的技术人员找出了一系列短暂的“ping信号”，似乎是370航班与印度洋上空的一颗卫星及澳大利亚珀斯的一座地面基站的握手。
The signals — seven of them transmitted at one-hour intervals — were an important clue, because they could have come only from an antenna receiving power from the plane itself. But while they carried a unique code identifying the aircraft as Flight 370, the signals contained no positioning or other data that could indicate where the plane was when it sent them.
这些信号共有七次，相互间隔一个小时。这是一条重要线索，因为信号只可能来自从飞机本身获得电源的一条天线。不过，尽管信号中带有将其识别为370航班的独特代码，但并不包含位置等数据，不能指出飞机发出信号的方位。
By Sunday afternoon, a team of Inmarsat engineers set to work using the principles of trigonometry to determine the distance between the satellite and the plane at the time of each ping, and then to calculate two rough flight paths. The plane, they concluded, had turned again. But it may have then traveled in more or less a straight line, heading north over countries likely to have picked it up on radar, or south toward the Indian Ocean and Antarctica.
到了周日下午，Inmarsat的工程师团队开始利用几何原理计算每次发出ping信号时卫星与飞机之间的距离。他们得出结论，飞机又经过了一次转向。不过随后，它可能基本按照直线飞行，要么朝向北面并可能被沿途国家的雷达捕捉到，要么朝向南面的印度洋和南极洲方向。
The Malaysian government said it received Inmarsat’s data on March 12 and spent three days analyzing and vetting it with investigators from the United States before redirecting the search on March 15.
马来西亚政府表示于3月12日收到了Inmarsat的数据，然后花了三天时间与美国调查人员一齐分析与审核，最后于3月15日调整了搜寻方向。
By then, more than a week had passed since the last satellite ping, recorded at 8:11 a.m. on March 8. It appears to have come from over the southern Indian Ocean, halfway around the world from where the plane should have been, on a tarmac in Beijing.
到了那个时候，已经距离3月8日早上8点11分的最后一次卫星ping信号过去了逾一周时间。这个信号似乎来自南印度洋，距离航班本来应当到达的北京跑道，有半个地球之遥。