WASHINGTON — The chiefs of America’s intelligence agencies last week presented President Obama and President-elect Donald J. Trump with a summary of unsubstantiated reports that Russia had collected compromising and salacious personal information about Mr. Trump, two officials with knowledge of the briefing said.
华盛顿——两名知情官员称，美国情报机构领导人上周向美国总统奥巴马和候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)提交了一份摘要，它概述了一些未经证实的报告，称俄罗斯已经收集了特朗普的一些有失体面、淫秽的个人信息。
The summary is based on memos generated by political operatives seeking to derail Mr. Trump’s candidacy. Details of the reports began circulating in the fall and were widely known among journalists and politicians in Washington.
这份摘要使用的材料是一些试图阻挠特朗普候选资格的政治特工撰写的备忘录。报告中的细节在去年秋天开始四处流传，在华盛顿的记者和政界人士中广为人知。
The summary was presented as an annex to the intelligence agencies’ report on the Russian hacking of the election, the officials said. The material was not corroborated, and The New York Times has not been able to confirm the claims. But intelligence agencies considered it so potentially explosive that they decided Mr. Obama, Mr. Trump and congressional leaders needed to be told about it and that the agencies were actively investigating it.
这两名官员说，情报机构在提交俄罗斯黑客干扰选举的报告的时候，附上了这份摘要。该材料未经证实，《纽约时报》也无法证实这些说法。但情报机构认为它可能具有爆炸性影响，决定应该告知奥巴马、特朗普、国会领导人，以及正在主动调查它的相关机构。
Intelligence officials were concerned that the information would leak before they informed Mr. Trump of its existence, said the officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the summary is classified and talking about it would be a felony.
这两名官员表示，情报官员担心这些信息会在他们通知特朗普之前泄露出去。两人不愿具名，因为这份摘要是保密的，谈论它将构成重罪。
The decision of top intelligence officials to give the president, the president-elect and the so-called Gang of Eight — Republican and Democratic leaders of Congress and the intelligence committees —what they know to be unverified, defamatory material was extremely unusual.
情报官员决定把他们知道未经证实、有损相关人员名誉的材料提交给总统、候任总统、两党的国会领导人以及情报委员会，这种情况十分少见。
The appendix summarized opposition research memos prepared mainly by a retired British intelligence operative for a Washington political and corporate research firm. The firm was paid for its work first by Mr. Trump’s Republican rivals and later by supporters of his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton. The Times has checked on a number of the details included in the memos but has been unable to substantiate them.
这份附录概述了一名英国退休特工为华盛顿一家政治与企业研究公司所做的对手研究备忘录的内容。该公司进行的这项工作一开始是由特朗普的共和党对手买单，后来则由他的民主党对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的支持者支付费用。时报核查了备忘录中的诸多细节，但无法证实它们。
The memos suggest that for many years, the government of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has looked for ways to influence Mr. Trump, who has traveled repeatedly to Moscow to investigate real estate deals or to oversee the Miss Universe competition, which he owned for several years. Mr. Trump never completed any major deals in Russia, though he discussed them for years.
备忘录内容显示，在过去多年里，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的政府一直在寻找办法对特朗普施加影响，后者曾多次前往莫斯科进行房地产交易调研，或监督他收购了几年的环球小姐比赛(Miss Universe)。特朗普从来不曾在俄罗斯完成过任何重大交易，尽管他多年来一直没少谈论这些。
The former British intelligence officer who gathered the material about Mr. Trump is considered a competent and reliable operative with extensive experience in Russia, American officials said. But he passed on what he heard from Russian informants and others, and what they told him has not yet been vetted by American intelligence.
美国官员表示，这名收集特朗普资料的前英国情报官员被视为一位能干、可靠的情报人员，在俄罗斯拥有丰富经验。但他所传出的信息都是由他自己从俄罗斯信源及其他人那里获得的信息，这些人对他讲述的东西还没有被美国情报机构核实。
The memos describe sex videos involving prostitutes with Mr. Trump in a 2013 visit to a Moscow hotel. The videos were supposedly prepared as “kompromat,” or compromising material, with the possible goal of blackmailing Mr. Trump in the future.
这份备忘录描述了特朗普2013年在莫斯科一家酒店内与几名妓女的性爱视频。据说这些视频原本是准备用作“kompromat”，或说会败坏名誉的素材，有可能在未来用于敲诈特朗普。
The memos also suggest that Russian officials proposed various lucrative deals, essentially as disguised bribes in order to win influence over the real estate magnate.
备忘录中还提到，俄罗斯官员提出了各种颇具诱惑力的交易，其本质是变相的贿赂，用以换取对这位房地产大亨的影响力。
The memos describe several purported meetings during the 2016 presidential campaign between Trump representatives and Russian officials to discuss matters of mutual interest, including the Russian hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta.
备忘录还描述了特朗普的代表与俄罗斯官员在2016年美国大选期间进行了几次传言中的会面，目的是谈论与双方共同利益相关的事宜，包括俄罗斯黑客入侵民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)和克林顿竞选团队主席约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)的电脑等事。
The first hint of the F.B.I. investigation came on Tuesday in a Senate hearing in a series of questions from Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, to the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey.
有关联邦调查局开展这项调查的第一个迹象出现在周二的一场参议院听证会上，当时俄勒冈州民主党参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)对联邦调查局局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)进行了一系列质询。
Mr. Wyden, trying to draw Mr. Comey out on information he may have heard during a classified briefing, asked whether the F.B.I. had investigated the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia. Mr. Comey demurred, saying he could not discuss any investigations that may or may not be underway. Mr. Wyden kept pressing, asking Mr. Comey to provide a written answer to the question before Mr. Trump’s inaugural on Jan. 20 because he feared there would be no declassification of the information once Mr. Trump took office.
怀登试图引导科米说出他可能在一场机密的情况通报会上听到的信息，他询问FBI是否对特朗普团队与俄罗斯的联系进行了调查。科米提出异议，称他不能谈论任何调查，不管它是否正在进行。怀登持续施压，要求科米在特朗普1月20日就职之前，就这个问题提供一份书面答案，因为他担心一旦特朗普就职，便不会再解除这些信息的机密性质。
After the hearing, Mr. Wyden posted on Twitter: “Director Comey refused to answer my question about whether the FBI has investigated Trump campaign contacts with Russia.”
听证会结束后，怀登在Twitter上发文称：“科米局长拒绝回答我提出的有关FBI是否调查了特朗普竞选团队与俄罗斯联系的问题。”
In fact, the material in the opposition research dossier had been given to the F.B.I. before the election. But the F.B.I. itself apparently struggled to confirm it, according to federal officials familiar with the investigation.
实际上，这些对手研究资料在大选之前就被交到了FBI手上。但据了解这项调查的联邦官员透露，FBI显然难以证实它。
Allies of Senator Harry Reid, the Senate Democratic leader from Nevada who retired at the end of the year, said the disclosures validated his call last summer for an investigation by the F.B.I. into Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia.
去年底退休的内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)的盟友们说，此事的揭露证明，去年夏天里德呼吁FBI对特朗普与俄罗斯的关系展开调查是正确的。
“The evidence of a direct connection between the Russian government and Donald Trump’s presidential campaign continues to mount,” Mr. Reid wrote in a letter to Mr. Comey on Aug. 27.
“越来越多的证据证明，俄罗斯政府与唐纳德·特朗普的总统竞选之间存在直接关联，”里德在8月27日写给科米的一封信中说。
Democrats on Tuesday night pressed for a thorough investigation of the claims in the memos. Representative Eric Swalwell of California, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, called for law enforcement to find out whether the Russian government had had any contact with Mr. Trump or his campaign.
周二晚上，民主党人吁求彻查备忘录中的内容。作为众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)成员的加州众议员埃里克·斯瓦尔韦尔(Eric Swalwell)呼吁执法部门调查俄罗斯政府与特朗普或其竞选团队是否有任何接触。
“The president-elect has spoken a number of times, including after being presented with this evidence, in flattering ways about Russia and its dictator,” Mr. Swalwell said. “Considering the evidence of Russia hacking our democracy to his benefit, the president-elect would do a service to his presidency and our country by releasing his personal and business income taxes, as well as information on any global financial holdings.”
“候任总统曾多次对俄罗斯及其独裁者表达赞赏，包括有这份证据出现之后，”斯瓦尔韦尔说。“在俄罗斯对我们的民主政体进行的破坏活动中，候任总统显然是受益者，因此，如果他能公布自己的个人和商业所得税，以及有关在全球所持股份的信息，对他的总统任期和我们的国家都将是有益的。”