SEOUL, South Korea — Jang Song-thaek, an uncle of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and a man widely considered to be No. 2 in the Pyongyang government, has been dismissed from all posts of influence, the National Intelligence Service of South Korea told Parliament on Tuesday.
韩国首尔——韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)周二向国会称，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑父、被广泛视为朝鲜政府二号人物的张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)已被免除所有重要职务。
Mr. Jang’s downfall followed the executions of his two deputies at the administrative department of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea on charges of “corruption and anti-party activities” last month, according to lawmakers who were briefed by intelligence officials in a hurriedly scheduled meeting at the National Assembly.
在匆匆召开的一次国会(National Assembly)会议上听取了情报机构官员汇报的一些议员说，张成泽下台之前，他在执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers' Party of Korea)行政部的两名副手因被控“腐败和从事反党活动”在上月被处决。
Mr. Jang, 67, has been a mentor to his nephew as well as a fixture in the North Korean power elite since the days of Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, exercising his widespread influence from the party’s administrative department, which he headed. He is the husband of Kim Kyong-hee, the beloved sister of Kim Jong-il and an aunt of the current leader.
自金正恩之父金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世以后，今年67岁的张成泽一直是其侄子的导师，也是朝鲜权力精英阶层中的一个不倒翁。他主管劳动党行政部，在这个职位上发挥着巨大的影响力。他的妻子是金正日疼爱的妹妹金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hee)，也就是现任领导人金正恩的姑姑。
Mr. Jang and his wife emerged as key brokers of power in the reclusive North Korean regime after Kim Jong-il suffered a stroke in 2008. They played leading roles in engineering the fast-track grooming of Kim Jong-un as designated heir, analysts said. Following Kim Jong-il’s death in late 2011, the couple then helped their nephew consolidate power through a series of purges that replaced 44 percent of top party, military and cabinet officials. Mr. Jang is estranged from his ailing wife, according to reports in the South Korean media.
在金正日2008年中风以后，张成泽及其妻子就成了与世隔绝的朝鲜政权当中关键的权力掮客。分析人士说，他们在快速既定接班人金正恩做好准备的过程中充当了领导角色。2011年底金正日去世以后，这对夫妻通过一系列清洗运动帮助侄子巩固政权，换掉了劳动党、军队和政府高层中44%的领导人。韩国媒体报道称，张成泽与自己患病的妻子不和。
But Mr. Jang’s seemingly unbridled influence has also prompted outside analysts to speculate that Mr. Kim would eventually see him as a potential challenge to his authority. They said that Mr. Kim has moved to weaken the broad network Mr. Jang had built while the regime was going through a transition in the past two years. On Sunday, the main party daily Rodong Sinmun, the North’s key propaganda tool, exhorted North Koreans to thoroughly establish the “monolithic leadership of Kim Jong-un” and “follow him to the end of the world.”
但是，张成泽看似不受约束的影响力也促使外部分析人士猜测，金正恩最终会将他视作对自己权威的一个潜在挑战。他们说，金正恩已经开始削弱张成泽在过去两年权力交接期间建立起的一个覆盖很广的网络。周日，朝鲜主要党报《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)劝谕朝鲜人彻底确立“金正恩的唯一领导”并“追随他到世界的尽头”。
“The intelligence agency gave us an unexpected briefing, saying that they had something urgent to report about a development of great import in North Korea,” said Jeong Cheong-rae, a lawmaker affiliated with the opposition Democratic Party in South Korea. “They said they believed that Jang Song-thaek had fallen from power.”
韩国反对党民主党议员郑清来(Jeong Cheong-rae)说，“情报机构给我们进行了一次意外的汇报，说是有一些关于朝鲜的重要情况要进行紧急报告。他们说，他们认为张成泽已经下台。”
It remained unclear whether Mr. Jang had just lost jobs or had also been incarcerated.
目前尚不清楚，张成泽是仅仅被解除了职务，还是已经被送进监狱。
Mr. Jang had disappeared from North Korean news media since Nov. 6, when he received Kanji Inoki, a former professional wrestler turned politician from Japan, in his capacity as North Korea’s top sports official. A public appearance together with Kim Jong-un, key proof that an official is favored by Mr. Kim, was last awarded to Mr. Jang on Oct. 10, the anniversary of the party.
11月6日，张成泽以朝鲜体育部最高领导的身份接见了由职业摔跤运动员转型的日本政客猪木宽至(Kanji Inoki)，从那以后，他的名字就从朝鲜媒体上消失了。张成泽上一次在金正恩身边公开露面的场合是10月10日的劳动党成立纪念日，出现在金正恩身旁是朝鲜官员得宠的一个重要证据。
The number of Mr. Jang’s appearances with Mr. Kim in North Korean media halved from 106 last year to 52 so far this year, according to the Unification Ministry of South Korea.
根据韩国统一部(Unification Ministry of South Korea)统计，在朝鲜媒体报道中，今年张成泽出现在金正恩身边的次数从去年的106次减少到迄今为止的52次。
The sudden toppling of Mr. Jang was likely to unleash a shake-up of the power structure in Pyongyang, analysts here said.
这里的分析人士称，张成泽突然下台可能是因为平壤开始进行权力重组。
The regime propagated the news of the executions of Mr. Jang’s two deputies at the party, Ri Yong-ha and Jang Su-gil, to the military and other elites while stepping up ideological education aimed at boosting loyalty to Kim Jong-un, said Cho Won-jin, a lawmaker belonging to the governing Saenuri Party of South Korea who attended an intelligence briefing on Tuesday.
参加周二这次情报会议的韩国执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)议员赵元真（Cho Won-jin，音译）说，朝鲜政权向军队和其他精英宣传了处决张成泽两名副手李龙河(Ri Yong-ha)和张秀吉(Jang Su-gil)的消息，同时还加强了意在增强对金正恩忠诚的意识形态教育。
More investigations and purges of people connected with Mr. Jang were underway, Mr. Cho quoted intelligence officials as saying.
赵元真引用情报官员的话说，针对张成泽亲信的进一步调查和清洗也在进行之中。
A spokesman for the National Intelligence Service referred to the comments from Mr. Cho and Mr. Jeong when reporters asked for information about its parliamentary briefing. The briefing to the lawmakers was widely reported in South Korean news media on Tuesday.
记者问及这次议会会议的消息时，国家情报院发言人提到了赵元真和郑清来的评论。周二，这次议员会议得到了韩国媒体的广泛报道。
Mr. Jang has been a member of key agencies headed by Kim Jong-un: He is a member of the Politburo, vice chairman of the party’s Central Military Commission and vice chairman of the National Defense Commission.
张成泽一直是由金正恩领导的几个核心部门的成员：他是中央政治局(Politburo)委员、中央军委(Central Military Commission)副主席、国防委员会(National Defense Commission)副委员长。
Pyongyang politics is rich ground for speculation among North Korea watchers. Since Mr. Kim took power, they have theorized that a power and policy struggle might be playing out behind the public displays of mass solidarity. Mr. Jang has long been described as a “guardian” for his young nephew. Some analysts have proposed that Mr. Kim remained little more than a figurehead, with the real power belonging to his “regent,” Mr. Jang.
平壤政坛是观察朝鲜的人士进行猜想的沃土。自金正恩上台以来，他们一直在推测，展示集体团结的公开表演背后很可能上演着权力与政策斗争。张成泽一直被描述成其年轻侄子的“监护人”。一些分析人士还提出，一直以来，金正恩比傀儡好不了多少，实权都掌握在“摄政王”张成泽手中。
Such speculation gained currency as Mr. Jang and his wife won key party posts in recent years. A new party elite — many of whose members were reportedly also close to the couple — also deprived the old military elite of lucrative rights, including the ability to trade in minerals and other commodities.
随着张成泽夫妇近年来赢得党内多个重要职位，此类猜想赢得了一定的市场。据报道，新兴的党内权贵中，许多人都与他们夫妻二人关系紧密。这些新权贵还剥夺了军队老领导层油水丰厚的多项特权，包括交易矿产等大宗商品的权利。
In April, Pak Pong-ju, an economic technocrat reportedly close to Mr. Jang, was made premier, a post that includes oversight of the economy. Mr. Jang had been seen as something of a champion of economic openness in North Korea. Last year, he visited China to seek Beijing’s help in building two free economic zones on its border.
今年4月，朴凤柱(Pak Pong-ju)成为总理，手握经济大权。他是一名经济技术官僚，据传与张成泽关系亲密。张成泽被外界看成堪称朝鲜经济开放捍卫者的人物。去年他曾出访中国，目的是为在边境地区建立两个自由经济区而寻求北京的帮助。
But longtime observers of North Korea, especially those in South Korea, have emphasized that the concentration of power in the top leader, a system perfected by Mr. Kim’s father, rendered Mr. Jang and any other member of the elites as just a pawn in Kim Jong-un’s scheme of control.
不过，长期观察朝鲜的人士，尤其是韩国人强调，在金正恩父亲手中得到完善的那套最高领导人独揽大权的体系，使得包括张成泽在内的任何党内高层都只是金正恩权力游戏的棋子。
Mr. Kim, 30, has swiftly consolidated his grip since he was declared supreme leader after his father’s death. His key tactic has been sidelining the old stalwarts from his father’s days and elevating a new set of generals and party officials who owe their loyalty directly to him. He has often tested the loyalty of top generals by dismissing or demoting them and letting them try to win his favor again — often by spying against others, another technique of leadership inherited from his father, according to South Korean officials and analysts.
父亲去世后，金正恩被宣布为最高领袖。自那以后，现年30岁的他迅速巩固了自身对权力的掌控。他的主要手法是排挤父亲执政时期的老忠臣，提拔一批新的将领与党内官员，让他们直接效忠自己。他还经常考验高层将领的忠诚度，方法是将他们解职或降级，然后让他们努力再次赢得自己的垂青——途径则往往是互相监控。按照韩国官员与分析人士的说法，这种领导手腕也是从他父亲那里继承下来的。
Mr. Jang has disappeared from public view twice before, the last time from 2003 to 2006, during a period when Mr. Kim’s father suppressed his power. He was humbled and later reinstated, according to South Korean officials.
张成泽以前曾两次从公众视野消失，上一次是2003年到2006年，他的权力遭到了金正恩父亲的打压。按照韩国官员的说法，当时他一度失势，后来又官复原职。
Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at Sejong Institute in South Korea, said that Mr. Jang’s latest downfall must have been engineered by Kim Won-hong, who was made head of the North’s secret police and spy agency in April last year, and Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, who became the top political officer in the military under Mr. Kim.
韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的高级分析员郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说，张成泽最近下台肯定是金元宏(Kim Won-hong)和崔龙海次帅(Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae)策划的。金元宏于去年4月成为了朝鲜秘密警察和间谍机构的负责人，后者则成了金正恩领导下的军队的首席政治官员。
Mr. Choe has long been known as a protégé of Mr. Jang. But he eclipsed Mr. Jang in influence this year by appearing with Mr. Kim in North Korean media more often than any other member of the elite.
长期以来，人们都知道崔龙海是张成泽的门生。但是今年，他的影响力超过了张成泽，因为他与金正恩一同出现在朝鲜媒体面前的次数比朝鲜精英阶层的任何人都多。
On Tuesday, the South Korean intelligence officials said the North’s secret police began investigating the corruption of Mr. Jang’s close allies this year.
周二，韩国情报官员说，朝鲜秘密警察今年已开始调查张成泽的亲密盟友的腐败行为。
“I don’t think Jang’s deputies were executed for mere corruption: Rather, they were executed because they established a ‘power,'” said Mr. Cheong, the Sejong analyst. “This case shows that Jang has never been a ‘de facto No. 2.’ If anything, it shows that Kim Jong-un’s power is solid and the North Korean elite will become more fervent to prove their loyalty to him.”
“我并不认为张成泽的副手被处决只是因为腐败。相反，他们被处决是因为他们形成了一股‘势力’，”世宗研究院的分析员郑相昌说。“这个案例表明，张成泽从来就不是‘实际上的二号人物’。这件事只是表明，金正恩的权力很稳固，朝鲜精英阶层将会越来越积极地向金正恩示忠。”