JINDO, South Korea — Of all the images from the loss of a ferry in the cold waters off the southwest coast of South Korea last week, perhaps none has angered South Koreans more than that of the captain, an orange life vest strapped to his torso, awkwardly stepping off his half-submerged vessel to the safety of a rescue boat, even as hundreds of his passengers remained trapped inside.
韩国珍岛——上周，一艘客轮在韩国西南部海域冰冷的海水中沉没。在这一事件中，或许最令韩国人愤怒的莫过于这一幕：就在数百名乘客仍然困在船上时， 身穿橙色救生背心的船长正艰难地从已经一半没入水中的船上逃出，登上安全的救生船。
The captain, Lee Jun-seok, 69, has yet to explain publicly why he abandoned the ship with people aboard — an apparent violation of maritime protocol, if not the law — as it sunk beneath the waves.
现年69岁的船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）仍未公开解释，在渡轮沉入滚滚波涛、船上还有乘客的时候，自己为何弃船而逃——这明显违反了海事规程，甚至可能违法。
But a portrait of the ship’s last voyage is emerging from crew members, survivors and a transcript of the vessel’s final 40 minutes of communications with emergency dispatchers on shore. It is a scene of rapidly building chaos in which the captain and his crew faced a series of tough choices, questionable decisions and mechanical failures — including the apparent loss of the onboard communications system. Those factors may have all contributed to the ship’s sinking and the death of at least scores, and more likely hundreds, of people.
船员和生还者的讲述，以及这艘船与岸上紧急调度员最后40分钟通讯内容的文字记录，呈现了这艘船沉没前的最后旅程。这是一个迅速陷入混乱的场景，船长和船员面临着一系列艰难的选择、令人质疑的决定和机械故障——包括船上的通讯系统似乎失灵。这些因素可能都促成了这场沉船事故，并且夺走了至少数十人、极有可能数百人的生命。
“The Coast Guard will arrive in 15 minutes; please tell your passengers to wear life jackets,” emergency dispatchers told the ferry about half an hour after it radioed for help.
在客轮通过无线电求助约半小时后，紧急调度员告诉客轮，“海岸警卫队将于15分钟后抵达；请要求乘客穿上救生衣。”
“Now we have lost our ability to broadcast our messages,” the ship responded. Crew members, using the ferry’s intercom, had previously instructed passengers to stay where they were, thinking it would be safer.
客轮回答道，“我们现在已经失去了广播的能力。”而在此之前，船员曾利用船内的通话系统指示乘客留在原地，他们认为这样更安全。
“Even if you can’t use your speaker, do your best to go out and ensure that your passengers wear life jackets or thick clothes,” emergency dispatchers said.
紧急调度员说，“即使不能使用扬声器，也要尽量到乘客中间，确保他们穿上救生衣或厚衣服。”
“If our passengers evacuate, will they be immediately rescued?” the ship responded.
客轮回答道，“如果我们的乘客从船上撤离，能否立即获救？”
“Let them float even with life rings. Hurry!” the dispatchers responded. A minute later, they added: “We don’t know the situation there. So the captain should make a final decision, and he should hurry to decide whether to evacuate them.”
“让他们漂在水上，哪怕是用救生圈。快！”调度员回答。一分钟之后，他们接着说：“我们不知道你们那里的情况。所以船长应该做出一个最后决定，他应该赶紧决定是否疏散乘客。”
A communications officer, in a separate part of the ferry, said he never received instructions from the bridge to tell passengers to abandon ship. One crew member on the bridge said he heard the captain give the order to evacuate, but that he did not hear the message broadcast to the passengers. Survivors have not reported hearing it.
当时身处客轮另一区域的一名通讯官说，他从来没有从驾驶舱收到要求乘客弃船的指示。驾驶舱的一名船员说，他听到船长下达了撤离的命令，但没有听到驾驶舱向乘客广播。生还者没有说听到过这样的指令。
When the Sewol began its overnight journey at 9 p.m. last Tuesday, embarking from a pier in Incheon, west of Seoul, and heading toward the southern resort island of Jeju, its voyage seemed like so many others the ship had taken. The 460-foot-long, five-story ferry plied this 264-mile route twice a week, along a busy shipping lane down the west coast of South Korea.
上周二晚9点，当“岁月号”(Sewol)驶出位于首尔以西仁川的一个码头，开始夜航，并朝着南边的度假胜地济州岛驶去时，此次航行似乎与这艘船之前的许多次行程一样，并无特别之处。这艘长460英尺（约合140米）的五层渡轮每周会沿韩国繁忙的西海岸航线，进行两次仁川到济州岛的航行，行程为264英里（约合425公里）。
It had 476 passengers on board — 60 percent of its capacity. Most of them were second-year high school students on what was supposed to be the last school trip before they entered a pressure-cooker year of cramming for college entrance exams. The ship also carried a full load of cargo, including 124 cars, 56 trucks and 105 shipping containers.
船上共有476名乘客——占这艘船载客量的60%。大多数乘客都是高中二年级学生，这应该是他们在为大学入学考试做准备的高压学年到来前所参加的最后一次学校旅行。这艘船还满载着货物，其中包括124辆汽车、56辆卡车和105个集装箱。
Some of the students gathered on the deck watching fireworks bursting in the night sky. Below deck, others strolled in small groups or gathered in entertainment rooms to sing karaoke or play video games.
有些学生聚集在甲板上观看夜空中绽放的烟花。还有学生在甲板下三五成群地散步、聚集在娱乐室里唱歌或者玩电子游戏。
Up in the pilothouse, on the ship’s top deck, the crew worked in four shifts. This ship left late because of fog, and Oh Yong-seok, 58, a helmsman, was on a second shift, taking the wheel under the guidance of a shipmate at 11 p.m. The water was calm, the night quiet, Mr. Oh recalled in a series of interviews this week. The captain stopped by the bridge from time to time to check on matters.
在位于渡轮顶层甲板的驾驶舱里，船员分为四个班次。因为大雾船晚点了；58岁的舵手吴永实（Oh Yong-seok，音译）当时在值第二班，夜间11时，他在一名副手的指导下掌舵。吴永实在本周的几次采访中回忆称，水很平静，夜也很宁静。船长会时不时路过驾驶舱来查看情况。
As Mr. Oh handed over the controls to the third shift, Mr. Oh suggested that crew members double-check the straps tying down the vehicles and cargo in the hold, he recalled. On his round, he told them that he had noticed that several had come loose and he tightened them. Otherwise, he said, there were no issues. With that, he retired to his berth and fell into a deep sleep.
据吴永实回忆，当他把舵交给第三班掌管时，他告诉船员要再次检查将货物与船体固定在一起的绳索是否牢固。他当班时告诉他们发现了几处松动，他系紧了。他说，除此以外并无其他问题。在这种情况下，他回到自己的铺位，进入了沉沉的睡眠。
The last shift began at 7:30 a.m., under the watch of Park Han-gyeol, 26, the youngest of the ship’s mates. She had been with the company only six months. On this trip, her shift coincided with the passage of the ship through the most challenging section of the voyage: a waterway known for its rapid and unpredictable currents and frequent ship accidents.
最后一班开始于上午7:30，负责监视的是最年轻的副手、26岁的朴汉洁（Park Han-gyeol，音译）。她6个月前刚刚加入公司。在此次航行中，她这一班刚好碰上航程中最具有挑战性的一段：这段航道以水流湍急多变、事故频发闻名。
“When the current hits the ship’s side, it can throw the ship off course,” Mr. Oh said. “It’s not easy to steer there.”
“当水流撞击船只时，就很可能会使船偏离航线，”吴永实说，“那里的驾驶难度较高。”
Ms. Park was navigating this notorious waterway for the first time, giving instructions to a helmsman at the wheel, according to prosecutors who have raised the question of how qualified she was for the difficult passage.
检察官表示，这是朴汉洁首次在这段以危险闻名的水道负责导航工作，为掌舵的舵手提供指令。检察官质疑她是否有资格为这段难以对付的航程导航。
Investigators say the Sewol appeared to make a sharp turn to the left around the time it began to tilt, and were looking into whether unsecured cargo may have shifted, contributing to the accident. The helmsman on duty, Jo Jun-gi, later told reporters that “I made a mistake of my own, but the ship turned much more than usual.” A prosecutor said investigators were also looking into “discrepancies” between Ms. Park’s and Mr. Jo’s versions of what happened.
调查人员称，“岁月号”在开始倾斜的时候似乎曾向左急转，而且他们还在调查未捆紧的货物是否发生移位，也从一定程度上造成了事故的发生。当时值班的舵手赵全奇（Jo Jun-gi，音译）随后告诉记者，“我自己犯了一个错，但是船转向的幅度远大于平时的情况。”一名检察官表示，调查人员还在调查朴汉洁和赵全奇对所发生事情的描述有怎样的“差异”。
At 8:48 a.m., Mr. Oh said he was jolted awake as his body was thrown against the port side wall of his quarters. The vessel had begun to list.
上午8:48，吴永实说他的身体被甩到了他舱室左侧的墙上，惊醒过来。这时船身已经开始倾斜。
He lurched from his room barefoot and scrambled along the corridor of the ship toward the bridge. The first person he saw was Mr. Lee, the ship’s captain.
他光着脚从自己的房间里跌跌撞撞地跑出来，沿着船上的走廊困难地走向驾驶舱。他看到的第一个人是船长李俊石。
Mr. Lee, who had been in his room, had just clambered out of his cabin and, with the ship slowly turning on its side, was now holding onto the doorway of the pilothouse, trying to pull himself inside and get control of the ship. Mr. Oh pushed the captain up and into the room and followed as well.
李俊石之前一直在自己的房间里，他刚刚从舱室里爬出来；随着船身开始慢慢倾斜，他此时抓住驾驶舱的门，试图进入驾驶室，把船控制住。吴永实把船长推上去，推进了驾驶台，然后自己也跟了进去。
Soon, all of the ship’s mates and helmsmen had gathered there. Mr. Lee, clutching onto a pillar near the map table at the center of the bridge, began barking orders.
没过多久，船上所有的副手和舵手都聚在了那里。李俊石抓住驾驶舱中央的地图桌附近的一个柱子，开始高声下令。
“The ship was already listing so heavily everyone was hanging onto whatever they could grab,” Mr. Oh recalled. “It was clear we were in a really bad situation.”
“船倾斜得非常严重，每个人都在尽量抓住他们所能抓住的任何东西，”吴永实回忆道，“事情很明显，我们的状况非常糟糕。”
That situation would in short order get even worse.
而且情况将会立刻急转直下。
Investigators trying to reconstruct events have been weighing a range of possible causes, including pilot error; an unexpected current; failure in the ship’s ballast; loose or unbalanced cargo; a recent addition of more cabins on the upper deck of the 20-year-old ferry that may have impaired its ability to recover balance; and loosely abided safety regulations.
试图再现事件发生过程的调查人员一直在权衡各种可能的原因，其中包括领航员的失误、突如其来的水流、压舱物出现故障、货物松散或失去平衡、前不久在这艘有20年历史客轮的上层甲板上新增的船舱可能削弱了船恢复平衡的能力，以及不严格遵守安全条例。
At 8:55 a.m., with the ship tilting and unable to move, someone on the bridge asked the local maritime authorities to “please come quickly,” according to the transcript of the ship-to-shore radio communications.
船对岸无线电通讯的文字记录显示，上午8点55分，在船倾斜并且无法移动的情况下，驾驶舱里有人让当地的海事管理机构“请速速前来”。
Mr. Lee ordered the crew to right the ship. But Ms. Park said the ballast motor was not working, Mr. Oh recalled.
李俊石下令船员让船恢复正常。但吴永实回忆说，朴汉洁说压舱物的发动机不工作了。
At 9:05 a.m., the radio on shore crackled with another urgent message from the Sewol: “What’s going on with the Coast Guard?” A government emergency dispatcher began asking ships in the area to go to the Sewol’s aid.
上午9点05分，岸上的无线电夹着噪音传来了“岁月号”再次发出的紧急信息：“海岸警卫队在哪儿？”政府的一名紧急调度员开始让该区域的船只前去救助“岁月号”。
Two levels below, Kang Hae-seong, one of the ship’s communications officers, was in the broadcasting room and trying to figure out what to do. With the ship listing about 30 degrees and cutlery falling off the shelves, he made an announcement on the public address system urging the passengers to stay where they were and not to move hastily.
船上负责通讯的官员姜海成（Kang Hae-seong，音译）在驾驶台之下两层的广播室里，试图理清该怎么办。在船倾斜了约30度，餐具从架子上往下掉的时候，他在公共广播系统上播报通知，呼吁乘客待在原地，不要慌慌张张地移动。
“I didn’t have time to look at the manual but I thought I should calm people down first,” he recalled in an interview.
“我来不及看手册，但我想，我首先应该让人们平静下来，”他在接受采访时说。
Mr. Lee said on Friday that he did not order an immediate evacuation because he feared the passengers would be endangered by the strong currents and the cold water. Mr. Oh said Mr. Lee first tried to get the ship’s life rafts deployed. His crew tried but could not make it to the lifeboats.
李俊石周五表示自己未下令立即疏散，因为他怕湍急的水流和寒冷会让乘客遇到危险。吴永实说，李俊石起初曾尝试放下船上的救生艇，他的船员们也尝试了，但没能走到救生艇前。
By 9:18 a.m., the Sewol reported that it was listing at an angle of more than 50 degrees. “Impossible to evacuate,” someone on the Sewol’s bridge told emergency dispatchers by radio.
到上午9点18分，“岁月号”通报称船身的倾斜角度超过50度。“不可能疏散，”客轮驾驶舱上的一个人通过无线电告诉紧急调度员。
Down below, Mr. Kang contacted the Coast Guard using his cellphone and then continued to tell people on the public address system to remain where they were “a little while longer” because the rescue boats were coming.
位于驾驶舱下面的姜海成用自己的手机与海岸警卫队取得了联系，然后继续通过公共广播系统告诉人们在原地“稍微再待一会儿”，因为救援船只正在赶来。
At 9:23 a.m., the bridge sent another distress call: “We are about to sink.”
上午9点23分，驾驶舱再次发出求救信号：“我们要沉了。”
As the ship continued to list and filled with water, Mr. Kang and his colleagues in the communications office resorted to desperate measures, stacking chairs to enable some passengers to climb up to the fourth floor. Another set of crew members unrolled a fire hose that passengers used to climb to a higher deck, he recalled.
随着船只继续倾斜和进水，姜海成和通讯联络室的同事开始仓皇地采取一些措施，比如把椅子堆起来，好让部分乘客爬到第四层去。他回忆说，另外一组船员将消防水带铺开，乘客借助消防水带爬到了更高的甲板上。
“It was chaotic because everyone was just busy saving themselves and many people weren’t pulling up the people below them,” Mr. Kang recalled.
“现场一片混乱，所有人都在忙着自救，许多人都没有拉一把下面的人，”他回忆说。
Mr. Oh said he heard Mr. Lee, before leaving the bridge, give the order to evacuate, but Mr. Oh did not hear it broadcast. Mr. Kang, the communications officer, said he never received the order. A senior prosecutor said investigators were still trying to figure out whether it ever reached the passengers.
吴永实说他听到李俊石在离开驾驶舱前下令疏散，但吴永实没有听到广播这一命令，负责通讯的姜海成说自己从未接到这一命令。一名高级检察官说，调查人员仍在调查乘客是否听到了这则命令。