Donald J. Trump has so far chosen to receive only one intelligence briefing each week. His decision is an extraordinary departure from the practices of his predecessors who received a briefing every day, with the exception of Richard M. Nixon, who had extensive foreign policy experience before his 1968 election victory.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)迄今选择每周仅听取一次情报简报。这个决定极大地偏离了前任总统们的做法，他们是每天都要听取一次简报，只有在1968年当选之前便具有丰富对外政策经验的理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)除外。
What’s more, Mr. Trump casually brushed off the importance of these briefings, indicating that he did not need them because he is “like, a smart person.”
更重要的是，特朗普随意地抹杀了这些简报的重要性，表明自己不需要它们，因为他“算是个聪明人”。
Intelligence professionals know that gathering information is often hazardous work, and Mr. Trump’s cavalier attitude undermines their sense of purpose. During my former life as an Army intelligence officer, I spent a year in one of the most dangerous districts in Afghanistan — the same district that gave birth to the Taliban. Of course, Army intelligence officers do not assume the same risks as the infantry soldiers, who dodge improvised explosive devices on daily patrols. But if Mr. Trump needs to learn about the risks taken by intelligence professionals, he need look no further than the memorial walls of the C.I.A. and the Army Military Intelligence Corps.
情报专业人士知道，收集信息的工作经常是有危险的，特朗普漫不经心的态度损害了他们的目的感。在我以前担任陆军情报员期间，曾在阿富汗最危险的地区之一――就是那个诞生了塔利班的地方――度过了一年。当然，步兵每天巡逻时都要规避简易爆炸装置，而陆军情报人员不会承担同样的风险。但是，如果特朗普需要了解情报专业人员所承担的风险，只需看看中央情报局和美国军事情报部队的纪念墙就够了。
Throughout my deployments, I found a sense of purpose knowing that my president and commanders recognized the value of intelligence. Were I an intelligence officer with Mr. Trump running the show, that sense of purpose would be eroded.
被部署在外的时候，我找到了一种目的感，我知道我的总统和指挥官了解情报的价值。如果我是特朗普下面的情报人员，我的目的感就会遭到削弱。
Yes, I would know that many prudent military commanders and executive officials would still rely on intelligence. But the president is supposed to be the intelligence community’s “No. 1 customer.” And as our next commander in chief, Mr. Trump, with his dismissive tone, insults all intelligence personnel, not just those whose products will reach the Oval Office.
是的，我知道很多审慎的军事指挥官和行政官员仍然依赖情报。但总统应该是情报界的“头号客户”。作为我们的下一任最高指挥官，特朗普轻蔑的语气侮辱了所有情报人员，而不仅仅是其成果会被送至椭圆办公室的那些人。
Consider also the human sources who provide information to collectors. Depending on their circumstances, the consequences of being caught might include incarceration, torture or death. It has always been an uphill battle to persuade potential sources to betray their countries or groups in the face of such risk. Now collectors must ask sources to do so for a country whose leader publicly snubs the product of their sacrifice. Under these circumstances, quality sources will most likely become more scarce.
还要考虑向情报收集者提供信息的人力资源。根据具体情况，他们遭到逮捕的后果可能包括监禁、酷刑或死亡。在这样的风险之下，说服潜在来源背叛自己的国家或集团一向是场顶风而行的斗争。现在这个国家的领导人公然蔑视情报来源的牺牲所换来的成果，情报收集者却不得不要求他们为这样一个国家提供情报。在这样的情况下，优质的情报来源很可能会变得越来越稀少。
The least the president can do to honor the sacrifices of the intelligence community is to consume the fruits of its efforts. Collectors, analysts and sources need to know that they are risking their lives for good reason.
为了尊重情报界的牺牲，总统至少能够做到的就是尽量吸取他们的努力成果。情报收集者、分析者和情报来源需要知道，他们之所以要冒生命危险，是有充分理由的。
And if Mr. Trump really is as smart as he purports to be, then paying attention to daily briefings should not be difficult. He may even learn a thing or two.
而且，如果特朗普真的像自己所标榜的那样聪明，那么看看每天的简报不会非常困难。他甚至可以从中学到一两件事。