Bobbi Kristina Brown, the only child of the pop stars Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown, who set off a media frenzy after she was found unconscious in a bathtub on Jan. 31, died on Sunday. She was 22.
流行歌星惠特尼·休斯顿(Whitney Houston)的独生女芭比·克里斯蒂娜·布朗(Bobbi Kristina Brown)于周日去世，年仅22岁。1月31号，布朗被发现在浴缸内昏迷，引来媒体争相报道。
Her death was confirmed by a statement from the Houston family provided by their representatives.
在惠特尼家族发言人代为发布的一份声明中，她的死讯得到了确认。
Ms. Brown, who grew up in the shadow of her parents’ fame and tumultuous relationship and was the sole heir to her mother’s estate, was found in her townhouse in a suburb of Atlanta on Jan. 31, and placed into a medically induced coma. The circumstances were reminiscent of those surrounding her mother’s death; Ms. Houston was found submerged in a hotel bathtub in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Feb. 11, 2012.
作为惠特尼遗产的唯一继承人，布朗自小生活在父母名望和婚姻纠葛的阴影之下。1月31号，布朗在其位于亚特兰大郊区的别墅内被发现，之后进行了“诱导昏迷”抢救。这些情景不禁令人想起其母去世时的场景。2012年2月11日，惠特尼·休斯顿被发现溺死于加州贝弗利山一家酒店的浴缸中。
Ms. Houston was one of the foremost pop stars of the 1980s and ’90s. Her career deteriorated as she and Mr. Brown struggled with drug and alcohol addiction, and their marriage ended in 2007. In a 2009 interview with Oprah Winfrey, Ms. Houston said that their passionate marriage degenerated into physical and psychological abuse from Mr. Brown.
惠特尼·休斯顿是上世纪八九十年代的流行乐巨星。不过随着她同前夫鲍比·布朗(Bobby Brown)一起陷入滥用药品和酒精的挣扎中，休斯顿的事业每况愈下，而两人的婚姻也在2007年终结。休斯顿在2009年接受奥普拉·温弗瑞(Oprah Winfrey)的一次采访时表示，她和布朗之间充满激情的婚姻，逐渐演变成了布朗对她的身心虐待。
Ms. Brown appeared onstage with her mother in the late 1990s and on reality shows like Bravo’s “Being Bobby Brown” (2005), about their dysfunctional family, and Lifetime’s “The Houstons: On Our Own,” about their grief after Ms. Houston’s death.
90年代末，布朗曾和母亲休斯顿同台演出，还参加了一些真人秀节目，包括美国精彩电视台(Bravo)播出的《身为鲍比·布朗》(Being Bobby Brown)，讲述了这个失衡家庭的生活； 以及 《休斯顿一家：靠我们自己》(The Houstons: On Our Own)，讲述休斯顿一家人在惠特尼·休斯顿过世后的悲痛。
She was the sole heir to Ms. Houston’s estate, widely reported to be about $20 million, which was put into a trust to be paid out in installments to Ms. Brown. People magazine reported in March that Ms. Brown’s uncle and aunt, Gary and Pat Houston, were in charge of managing the trust.
布朗是惠特尼·休斯顿的唯一财产继承人，外界广泛认为其财产价值约为2000万美元，现已放入一个基金，并分期支付给布朗。《人物》杂志(People)在3月份报道称，基金的管理交由布朗的姨妈帕特·休斯顿(Pat Houston)和姨父加里(Gary)负责。
Conflicting news reports and family statements about Ms. Brown’s condition swirled for months. She was placed into hospice care on June 24.
关于布朗的状况，几个月来新闻报道和家属声明给出了各种不一致的陈述。6月24日，布朗被送进了临终安养院。
“She is finally at peace in the arms of God,” her family said in a statement confirming her death on Sunday.
布朗的家属在周日发表声明证实了她的死讯，声明称“她终于平静地在上帝的怀抱中安息了。”
Ms. Brown’s conservator, Bedelia Hargrove, filed a lawsuit on her behalf on June 25 against Nicholas Gordon, variously described in news media accounts as her boyfriend, fiancé or husband.
布朗的监护人贝德莉亚·哈格罗夫(Bedelia Hargrove)以布朗的名义于6月25日向尼古拉斯·戈登(Nicholas Gordon)提出诉讼。戈登曾以布朗的男友、未婚夫或是丈夫等多种身份出现在新闻报道中。
The suit charges that Mr. Gordon physically abused Ms. Brown and misrepresented himself as her husband to embezzle her funds. It also contends that the two had a loud argument before Mr. Gordon and a friend found her in the bathtub on Jan. 31.
该诉讼指控戈登对布朗施暴，并且为挪用其基金谎称自己是布朗的丈夫。据称，戈登和一位友人于1月31日在浴缸中发现布朗之前，戈登和布朗之间发生过一次激烈争吵。
The lawsuit also claims that Mr. Gordon stole more than $11,000 from Ms. Brown’s accounts while she was in a coma.
另外这份诉讼还指出，在布朗昏迷期间，戈登从她的账户中窃取了1.1万多美元。
Randy Kessler, Mr. Gordon’s lawyer, said in a text message on Sunday night: “Sorry. I have no comment right now.”
在周日夜间发送的一条短信中，戈登的律师兰迪·凯斯勒(Randy Kessler)说道，“抱歉，目前无可奉告。”
Bobbi Kristina Houston Brown was born on March 4, 1993, in Livingston, N.J., and attended Edison High School in Edison Township, N.J. Mr. Gordon was taken in by her family as a youth and grew up with her.
芭比·克里斯蒂娜·布朗于1993年3月4号在新泽西州利文斯顿市出生，曾就读于爱迪生镇的爱迪生高中(Edison High School)。戈登自小由布朗的家人领养，与布朗一同长大。
Survivors include her father; her grandmother, the singer Cissy Houston; and her uncle and aunt.
布朗身后亲人包括她的父亲，曾为歌手的祖母茜茜·休斯顿(Cissy Houston)，她的姨妈和姨父。