Is the war on drugs crippling the war on AIDS? And might the AIDS epidemic make governments more willing to treat drug abusers as suffering patients rather than as hardened criminals?
打击毒品的斗争会妨碍抗击艾滋病(AIDS)吗？艾滋病疫情的问题，有可能令政府更愿意把吸毒者视为承受痛苦的患者，而不是不知悔改的罪犯吗？
Those questions came to the fore last week because of a fumbled news story. It was announced — incorrectly, it turned out — that the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, which oversees the fight against cross-border drug trafficking, was about to do a startling about-face and advocate ending penalties for personal use of all drugs.
上周，一则失实的新闻报道让这些问题受到关注。报道称，负责监督打击跨境贩毒活动的联合国毒品和犯罪问题办公室(United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)将要出人意料地改变立场，倡导对个人使用各种毒品的行为不予处罚。后来发现这则报道是错误的。
The schisms revealed by the news — U.N. agencies, not to mention nations and political parties, are sharply divided over the issue — showed how the debate is shifting, in part because of H.I.V.
这则新闻暴露了很多分歧，联合国下属的各机构之间对这个问题都存在尖锐分歧，更不用说各个国家和政党了。这些分歧显示出，在艾滋病毒(HIV)等因素的影响下，这场争论正在发生何种变化。
The spread of the virus through needles may be the least-talked-about but most intractable aspect of the AIDS epidemic. In North America and Western Europe, H.I.V. is mostly transmitted through gay sex. In Africa, the focus of most Western aid, it is spread through heterosexual sex.
针头传播HIV可能是艾滋病疫情中最少被人谈论，但又最棘手的问题。在北美和西欧，HIV主要是通过同性性行为传播的。而在非洲，则主要是通过异性性行为传播。大多数西方援助都关注于非洲。
But in many countries — notably Russia and Eastern Europe, and across swaths of Asia where the opium poppy flourishes, the greatest H.I.V. risk is injected heroin.
但在许多国家——特别是俄罗斯、东欧，以及罂粟蓬勃生长的亚洲广大地区，HIV传播的最大风险是海洛因注射。
“Our position is very clear,” said Michel Sidibé, the executive director of Unaids, the U.N. agency fighting AIDS. “Of the 12 million people who inject drugs, 1.7 million are infected. We need to take these people out of the shadows and into services, or we will never control the epidemic.”
“我们的立场非常明确，”负责防治这一疾病的联合国艾滋病规划署(Unaids)的执行主任米歇尔·西迪贝(Michel Sidibé)说，“在1200万注射吸毒者中，有170万人感染了HIV。我们需要让这些人走出阴影、获得服务，否则我们永远控制不了疫情。”
Studies done decades ago on groups with different H.I.V. risk factors — prostitutes in Nairobi, gay men in San Francisco and addicts in Bangkok, for example — showed that needle-sharing was the fastest way the virus spread when it entered a new population.
几十年前，一些人研究了有HIV感染风险的不同群体，例如内罗毕的妓女、旧金山男同性恋，和曼谷吸毒者。研究表明，当HIV进入一个新群体时，共用针头是该病毒传播最快的方式。
Around the world, users who inject drugs are 28 times more likely to be infected than people who do not.
在全球范围内，注射吸毒者感染HIV的风险是其他人的28倍。
Taking away the fear of arrest after being caught with a syringe or a gram of heroin makes it possible for addicts to sign up for risk-lowering interventions: clean syringes, condoms for those who sell sex for drugs, antibiotic treatment for venereal diseases, methadone to help addicts lead less chaotic lives, antiretroviral treatment and pre-exposure prophylaxis.
没有了因使用针具和持有一克海洛因而被捕的担忧，毒品上瘾者就有可能愿意接受一些可以降低风险的干预措施：提供干净的针具，给以性换毒品的人提供避孕套，为感染性病的人提供抗生素治疗，用美沙酮作为替代帮助瘾君子过上正常一点的生活，以及进行抗逆转录病毒药物治疗和暴露前预防措施。
Jailing users, by contrast, increases risk. Many prisons are H.I.V. hotbeds because of drug needles, tattoo needles, unprotected male-male sex and rape.
相比之下，监狱里的吸毒者感染风险会增加。很多监狱都是HIV滋生的温床，因为在那里有人用针头注射药物，用针做纹身，还存在无保护措施的同性性行为和强奸。
No two countries have matching policies on the nonmedicinal use of drugs.
在非医学用药方面，各个国家的政策都不相同。
In the United States, marijuana is legal in four states while heroin is universally outlawed; 30 states allow syringe exchanges while 20 do not. In Switzerland, by contrast, voters in 2008 effectively made heroin a medical problem, but kept marijuana illegal.
在美国，吸食大麻在四个州为合法，而海洛因则被全面禁用；有30个州允许针具交换，20个州不允许。相比之下，瑞士在2008年实际上已经将海洛因划为医药，但大麻依然是非法的。
Iran permits clean syringes and methadone, even to prisoners. Heroin addicts, who once faced the death penalty, are immune from arrest while in treatment.
伊朗允许销售干净的针具和美沙酮，甚至允许将之提供给囚犯。而曾经会被判死刑的海洛因上瘾者，现在在接受治疗期间可以免于被捕。
Study after study has shown that countries that reduce penalties and offer treatment have reduced H.I.V. infections. China, for example, dropped a zero-tolerance policy on heroin in favor of clean syringes and methadone. It now has 700 clinics treating 200,000 patients, and new H.I.V. cases among those patients have dropped by 90 percent, Mr. Sidibé said.
一项接一项研究显示，在那些减少刑罚和提供治疗措施的国家，HIV感染人数都有所减少。比如，中国对海洛因实行零容忍政策，但它支持使用干净的针具和美沙酮。西迪贝表示，现在中国有700家诊所对20万吸毒者进行治疗，这些吸毒者中的新HIV感染案例已经下降了90%。
In 2001, Portugal made the possession of up to 10 days’ worth of any drug legal. Only 78 H.I.V. cases there were attributed to drug use in 2013. (Also, overdose deaths are now among the lowest in Europe — 3 per million Portuguese versus 45 per million among residents of Britain, for example.)
在2001年，葡萄牙将持有十天及以内用量的任何毒品列为合法。葡萄牙2013年的新增HIV感染案例，只有78例是由吸毒引起（而且，葡萄牙也是欧洲吸毒过量致死比率最低的国家之一——100万葡萄牙人中只有3人，相比之下，在其他国家，如英国，100万人中有45人因吸毒过量致死）。
In Germany, arrests on charges of possession of small amounts may be dismissed. Most addicts are in treatment, and pharmacies sell syringes cheaply.
在德国，因持有少量毒品而提出的指控有可能会被驳回。大多数毒品成瘾者都在接受治疗，药店销售廉价的针具。
Germany has about 3,300 new H.I.V. infections a year with only about 100 of them from drug use — down from 1,200 in 1986. Many are in recent émigrés from former Soviet countries, according to a 2012 Unaids report.
德国每年有大约3300个新HIV感染案例，其中只有大约100人是因吸毒引起，而且在1986年，这个数字是1200人。联合国艾滋病规划署2012年的一份报告显示，他们中有很多是近些年从前苏联国家来到德国的流亡者。
In Russia, by contrast, under President Vladimir V. Putin’s “traditional values” campaign, the police crack down hard on addicts. Syringe exchanges and methadone are illegal. State hospitals rely on detoxification and group therapy.
与之形成对比的是，在俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)发起的“传统价值观”运动之下，俄罗斯警方对毒品上瘾者实施严厉打击。针具交换和美沙酮都是非法的。国营医院依靠脱瘾治疗和集体治疗应对这一问题。
Lord Fowler, a former British health secretary, said in a recent BBC magazine article that the chief of Moscow’s major “narcology research” hospital told him that half the addicts she treated relapsed within a year, and 90 percent within eight years.
前英国卫生大臣福勒勋爵(Lord Fowler)最近为BBC杂志撰写了一篇文章，文中他表示，莫斯科进行“麻醉研究”的重要医院的工作人员告诉他，该院治疗的瘾君子有一半都在一年内复吸，90%不到8个月就复吸。
Russia has 85,000 new H.I.V. infections a year, and the head of Moscow’s Federal AIDS Center said in May that 57 percent were from drug injection.
俄罗斯一年有8.5万HIV感染案例，位于莫斯科的联邦艾滋病中心(Federal AIDS Center)负责人曾在5月份曾表示，俄罗斯57%的HIV病人是因注射毒品而感染。
Questions over drug policy have split U.N. agencies. The World Health Organization and Unaids openly favor ending criminal penalties to fight H.I.V.
联合国的几个机构在毒品政策上的意见存在分歧。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)和联合国艾滋病规划署公开支持停止对吸毒者实施刑事惩罚，以对抗艾滋病。
But U.N.O.D.C., the drug and crime agency, rooted in law enforcement and the 1946 U.N. Commission on Narcotic Drugs, is more conservative. Its executive director, Yury Fedotov, is Russian; high U.N. officials rarely flout the views of the governments that nominate them.
但受1946年成立的联合国麻醉药品委员会(U.N. Commission on Narcotic Drugs)监督、侧重执法的联合国药物和犯罪问题办公室(UNODC)，则更加保守。UNODC总干事尤里·费多托夫(Yury Fedotov)是俄罗斯人；联合国高级官员很少公然挑战提名他们任职的政府的观点。
The agency’s H.I.V. division did produce a briefing paper last week saying that possession of small amounts could be made permissible under anti-trafficking treaties and human-rights law. An agency representative denied that it amounted to a reversal of 70 years of policy and said such a momentous change would not be announced “by a midlevel official at someone else’s conference in Kuala Lumpur.”
该办公室的HIV部门上周通过一份简报表示，在反走私条约和人权法之下，有可能允许持有少量毒品。一位办公室工作人员否认这意味着该机构逆转了过去70年的政策，并表示这样的重大改变不会是由“一个中层官员在别的机构的吉隆坡会议上”宣布。
However, a shift by the United Nations as a whole may be in the wind.
但联合国在这一问题上整体发生转向，有可能正在酝酿之中。
Even Secretary General Ban Ki-moon recently treaded close to the line, saying, “We must consider alternatives to criminalization and incarceration of people who use drugs.”
就连联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)最近也几乎踩到了边界，他说，“我们必须考虑可以替代对吸毒者进行刑事定罪和监禁的其他措施。”