Is life too easy for the unemployed? You may not think so, and I certainly don’t think so. But that, remarkably, is what many and perhaps most Republicans believe. And they’re acting on that belief: there’s a nationwide movement under way to punish the unemployed, based on the proposition that we can cure unemployment by making the jobless even more miserable.
失业者的生活太轻松了吗？大家也许不觉得，我肯定也不这么认为。不过，引人注目的是，许多共和党人，甚至可能是多数共和党人就是这么想的，而且他们正按照这种信念来采取行动：目前全国正开展一场惩罚失业者的运动，基于的思想是，我们能够通过让失业者更悲惨来解决失业问题。
Consider, for example, the case of North Carolina. The state was hit hard by the Great Recession, and its unemployment rate, at 8.8 percent, is among the highest in the nation, higher than in long-suffering California or Michigan. As is the case everywhere, many of the jobless have been out of work for six months or more, thanks to a national environment in which there are three times as many people seeking work as there are job openings.
比如，以北卡罗来纳州为例。该州因本轮大衰退(Great Recession)损失惨重，失业率高达8.8%，超过了长期受困的加利福尼亚州和密歇根州，属全国最高之列。与其他地方一样，许多失业者没工作的时间长达6个月或更久，因为目前的全国环境是，找工作的人是空缺岗位的三倍。
Nonetheless, the state’s government has just sharply cut aid to the unemployed. In fact, the Republicans controlling that government were so eager to cut off aid that they didn’t just reduce the duration of benefits; they also reduced the average weekly benefit, making the state ineligible for about $700 million in federal aid to the long-term unemployed.
尽管如此，该州政府最近还是大力削减了失业救助。实际上，控制州政府的共和党人特别急切地缩减该项救助，不单缩短了救助金的领取时间，还减少了周救助金的平均数额，使得该州丧失了约7亿美元（约合43亿元人民币）的长期失业联邦救助资格。
It’s quite a spectacle, but North Carolina isn’t alone: a number of states have cut unemployment benefits, although none at the price of losing federal aid. And at the national level, Congress has been allowing extended benefits introduced during the economic crisis to expire, even though long-term unemployment remains at historic highs.
这种现象令人意外，但却并非北卡罗来纳州独有：许多州都已削减了失业津贴，不过它们都没有把失去联邦救助作为代价。在全国层面上，尽管长期失业率依然处于历史高位，但国会已允许在经济危机期间引入的额外救助期满失效。
So what’s going on here? Is it just cruelty? Well, the G.O.P., which believes that 47 percent of Americans are “takers” mooching off the job creators, which in many states is denying health care to the poor simply to spite President Obama, isn’t exactly overflowing with compassion. But the war on the unemployed isn’t motivated solely by cruelty; rather, it’s a case of meanspiritedness converging with bad economic analysis.
那么，这中间发生了什么？仅仅是残忍吗？共和党不是什么充满爱心的角色。他们认为，47%的美国人是占雇主便宜的“索取者”；在许多州，共和党不向穷人提供医疗保险，仅仅是为了刁难奥巴马总统。但打击失业者的战争的动机并不只是残忍，而是一个吝啬和糟糕的经济分析结合在了一起的案例。
In general, modern conservatives believe that our national character is being sapped by social programs that, in the memorable words of Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, “turn the safety net into a hammock that lulls able-bodied people to lives of dependency and complacency.” More specifically, they believe that unemployment insurance encourages jobless workers to stay unemployed, rather than taking available jobs.
总的来说，现代保守派认为，我们的民族性格正在被社会项目侵蚀。用众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)那句令人难忘的话说，那些社会项目“把社会保障网络变成了吊床，引诱身体健全的人过依赖他人、自满自得的生活”。更具体地说，他们相信，失业保险鼓励失业者安于失业，而不是接受能找到的岗位。
Is there anything to this belief? The average unemployment benefit in North Carolina is $299 a week, pretax; some hammock. So anyone who imagines that unemployed workers are deliberately choosing to live a life of leisure has no idea what the experience of unemployment, and especially long-term unemployment, is really like. Still, there is some evidence that unemployment benefits make workers a bit more choosy in their job search. When the economy is booming, this extra choosiness may raise the “non-accelerating-inflation” unemployment rate — the unemployment rate at which inflation starts to rise, inducing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates and choke off economic expansion.
这个说法有证据吗？北卡罗来纳州的失业津贴平均为每周299美元，税前——好一张吊床。因此，任何认为失业者是故意选择过空闲生活的人，根本不了解失业，尤其是长期失业，到底是什么感受。但依然有证据表明，失业津贴让失业者在找工作时稍显挑剔一些。当经济繁荣时，这种额外的挑剔或许会导致“非加速通货膨胀”的失业率上升。当失业率处于“非加速通货膨胀”的水平时，通货膨胀开始加剧便会促使美联储提高利率，限制经济扩张。
All of this is, however, irrelevant to our current situation, in which inflation is not a concern and the Fed’s problem is that it can’t get interest rates low enough. While cutting unemployment benefits will make the unemployed even more desperate, it will do nothing to create more jobs — which means that even if some of those currently unemployed do manage to find work, they will do so only by taking jobs away from those currently employed.
然而，所有这些都和我们当前的情况无关。在当前情况下，通货膨胀不成问题，美联储的问题是，它无法让利率足够低。削减失业津贴会让失业者甚至更悲惨，但却无益于创造更多岗位，这意味着，即使现在处于失业状态的部分人真能成功找到工作，他们也只能通过抢走现在有工作的人的岗位来实现这一点。
But wait — what about supply and demand? Won’t making the unemployed desperate put downward pressure on wages? And won’t lower labor costs encourage job growth? No — that’s a fallacy of composition. Cutting one worker’s wage may help save his or her job by making that worker cheaper than competing workers; but cutting everyone’s wages just reduces everyone’s income — and it worsens the burden of debt, which is one of the main forces holding the economy back.
但等等，供应和需求呢？让失业者陷入绝望不会带来下调工资的压力吗？更低的劳动力成本不会鼓励工作岗位增加吗？不会，这是一种合成谬误。削减一个员工的工资，或许能帮他或她保住工作，因为这个员工的成本比他的竞争对手更低，但削减所有人的工资只是减少了所有人的收入，而且这样做会加重债务负担，债务负担是阻碍经济发展的主要因素之一。
Oh, and let’s not forget that cutting benefits to the unemployed, many of whom are living hand-to-mouth, will lead to lower overall spending — again, worsening the economic situation, and destroying more jobs.
我们不要忘了，削减失业津贴会导致整体消费减少，并再次让经济形势恶化，让更多人失业——许多失业者只能勉强度日。
The move to slash unemployment benefits, then, is counterproductive as well as cruel; it will swell the ranks of the unemployed even as it makes their lives ever more miserable.
于是，削减失业救助的做法不仅残忍，而且还会产生适得其反的后果。它在让失业者的生活更悲惨的同时，还会增加失业人数。
Can anything be done to reverse this policy wrong turn? The people out to punish the unemployed won’t be dissuaded by rational argument; they know what they know, and no amount of evidence will change their views. My sense, however, is that the war on the unemployed has been making so much progress in part because it has been flying under the radar, with too many people unaware of what’s going on.
能做点什么来逆转这种错误的政策转向吗？试图惩罚失业者的人不会被理性论证说服，他们知道自己知道些什么，再多的证据也无法改变他们的观点。然而，我的感觉是，打击失业者的战争取得了这么多进展，部分是因为它是悄悄进行的，太多人不知道正在发生什么。
Well, now you know. And you should be angry.
那么，现在你知道了。而且你应该愤怒。