TOKYO — Last month the Diet passed the so-called Special Secrets Protection Bill. The law does not define what a “special secret” is, but whoever leaks one may be imprisoned for up to 10 years. A journalist who merely tries to obtain information the government views as sensitive could be sentenced to five years in jail.
东京——上个月，日本国会通过了那项所谓的《特定秘密保护法案》(Special Secrets Protection Bill)。这部法律并没有界定什么是“特定秘密”，但谁要是泄露了这样一个秘密，就可能面临长达10年的监禁。一位仅仅想取得政府视为敏感的信息的记者可能会被判处5年监禁。
The law, which was proposed by the cabinet of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe only in August, has been widely criticized in Japan and abroad, sparking large protests in Tokyo.
这部法律刚刚由首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的内阁在8月提出，已经在日本国内和海外引来了广泛批评，并在东京激起了大规模抗议活动。
Many of its opponents have noted that it recalls the infamous Peace Preservation Act of 1925, which the imperial government used to suppress dissent through World War II. The comparison is apt in more than one way. The Peace Preservation Act was passed when Japan was still reeling from the Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923, which had left Tokyo in ruins. Today, the country is still reeling from the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Tohoku, and the ensuing nuclear disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant.
许多反对它的人提出，这让他们想起了1925年制定的臭名昭著的《治安维持法》(Peace Preservation Act)，日本天皇政府曾用它在二战时期打压异议。这种对比的恰当性体现在多个方面。1923年的关东大地震(Great Kanto Earthquake)让东京成为一片废墟，《治安维持法》通过之时，日本还苦苦挣扎在地震造成的破坏之中，无法前行。而今天，日本依然深受2011年东北地区地震、海啸以及随之引发的福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)核灾难的影响。
Immediately after the secrets law was passed, people observed on Twitter and other social media that the Abe administration’s move was a version of what Naomi Klein calls the “shock doctrine”: the practice among politicians and corporations of exploiting the fear and disorientation that follow natural disasters and other major “shocks” to push through controversial policies — giving a second, supposedly therapeutic shock to the system.
秘密保护法通过后，人们立刻在Twitter和其他社交媒体上发表评论，认为安倍政府此举相当于娜奥米·克莱因(Naomi Klein)所说的“休克主义”(shock doctrine)：政客和大企业惯用的一种手段，利用自然灾难和其他重大“休克”事件发生后的恐慌和迷茫情绪，来推进有争议的政策——为体系再次带来据称有治疗效果的一击。
This, too, seems like a fairly accurate appraisal. At the same time, the secrecy bill is far from the only “shocking” news item to have surfaced in Japan since the triple disasters of 2011.
这看来也是一个相当精准的评价。与此同时，2011年的三重灾难发生以后，这部秘密法案远非出现在日本的唯一一条“令人休克”的消息。
Ever since then the Japanese government has provided the media with a steady diet of major, almost all-consuming issues, and the media have obligingly lurched from one to the next. From May to August 2011, news coverage focused on the efforts of members of Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s party to force him out of office after he ordered the shutdown of a nuclear power plant in Hamaoka. The rest of the year was dominated by news of the relocation of U.S. Marine Corps Air Station at Futenma, on Okinawa.
2011年灾难发生以后，日本政府已持续地为媒体提供了重大、甚至是吸引了所有注意力的新闻素材，而媒体也乐于奔走在不同的新闻事件之间。2011年5月到8月，时任首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)下令关闭滨冈的一座核电站后，新闻媒体便开始集中报道菅直人所在政党的成员如何逼他下台的种种举动。而那一年剩下的几个月里，有关冲绳县普天间美国海军陆战队航空基地(U.S. Marine Corps Air Station)搬迁的新闻则成了焦点。
During the first half of 2012 the big issue was Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s push to pass an unexpected increase in the sales tax. By August 2012, it was tensions between Japan and South Korea after President Lee Myung-bak’s visit to islands that both countries claim as their own. The following month, relations with China soured, when the Japanese government announced its intention to purchase contested islands. And it hasn’t stopped: Just the other day, Mr. Abe created another crisis by visiting Yasukuni Shrine, becoming the first sitting prime minister to do so since 2006.
2012年前6个月的重大事件是时任首相野田佳彦(Yoshihiko Noda)出人意料地推动提高消费税。到2012年8月，在韩国总统李明博(Lee Myung-bak)访问了日韩争议岛屿之后，两国之间的紧张局势成为了媒体关注的重心。在之后的9月，当日本政府宣布有意向购买争议岛屿后，中日关系恶化。而这种局势持续至今：就在前几天，安倍晋三参拜靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)，成为2006年以后第一位这么做的现任首相，由此引发了又一场危机。
The adoption of the special secrets bill, in other words, is merely one in a series of supposedly pressing issues that have dominated national discourse in Japan. I say “supposedly pressing” because there was, in fact, no compelling reason for the government or the media to give these issues such prominence when they did. The sales tax could have been raised later. The territorial dispute with China could have been kept under wraps. No urgent matter of national security made it necessary to railroad the special secrets law through Parliament.
换句话说，在一系列成为了日本舆论焦点的据说十分急迫的问题中，通过特定秘密法案只是其中之一。我说“据说十分急迫”是因为，事实上并没有什么令人信服的原因，需要政府或媒体给予这些问题如此的重要性，但他们的确这么做了。消费税本可以晚些再提高。与中国的领土争议本可以不加声张。也并没有事关国家安全的紧急事件，需要这样强行在国会通过秘密保护法。
Meanwhile, the one problem that can’t wait is being pushed into the background. Nearly three years have passed since the earthquake-tsunami-nuclear accident, and almost 280,000 evacuees from the contaminated areas of Fukushima — about 60 percent of the original number — are still living in temporary housing. Little progress has been made toward decommissioning units 1 through 4 at the Fukushima Daiichi plant; they continue to produce 400 tons of contaminated water every day, some of which is flowing into the sea.
而与此同时，有一个不能再等的问题却正被搁置。地震、海啸、核事故发生已将三年，被污染的福岛地区已有将近28万人——约占原先人口的60%——撤离，仍旧住在临时居所内。福岛第一核电站一到四号机组的拆除工作也还没有什么进展；它们继续每天释放出400吨污水，其中一些正流入大海。
The government’s first priority should be to clean up the nuclear contamination and present Japanese voters with a long-term energy strategy and new economic vision. Anyone can see that these are the truly pressing issues — anyone, that is, who isn’t looking away.
政府的第一要务应当是清除核污染，向日本选民给出一个长期的能源战略和新的经济愿景。这些才是真正紧迫的议题,所有人都明白，——确切说是那些对问题没有视而不见的人都明白。
In this sense, describing what has been happening in Japan since 2011 as a version of Ms. Klein’s shock doctrine is only half right. The Japanese government — first the Democratic Party of Japan, now the Liberal Democratic Party — may have been exploiting people’s fears and disorientation to push through unpopular policies, but the media and society as a whole have been collaborating with it, even if unconsciously.
从这个意义上，形容2011年以来的日本局面是克莱因“休克主义”的某种版本，只是说对了一半。日本政府——包括先前的民主党政府和现在的自民党政府——或许在利用人们的恐慌和迷茫，来推动不受民众欢迎的政策，但总体而言，媒体和社会也一直在充当同谋，尽管是无意识的。
The French call this “la fuite en avant,” or the forward flight. Fleeing forward is what you are doing when you plunge from one issue to the next, constantly creating new emergencies in order to avoid confronting a more serious and intractable problem. It is what Japan is doing when it averts its eyes from the possibility that, as some have speculated, it may take 20 years and 200 trillion yen to recover fully from the damage of 2011.
法国人管这叫作“la fuite en avant”，也就是“向前逃跑”。如果从一个问题匆匆奔向另一个问题，为了避免应对更严重也更棘手的问题，而不断地制造新的紧急情况，就是在向前逃跑。有人推测，日本需要20年、花费200万亿日元（约合11.6万亿元人民币）才能完全修复2011年产生的破坏。日本对这种可能性视而不见，而是一味地向前逃跑。
Or maybe the recovery will take more time and more money. No one really knows, because the Japanese government has yet to release official estimates. It just keeps fleeing forward, with the media and society close behind.
或许从灾难中恢复过来需要花更长的时间和更多的金钱。没有人真正知道，因为日本政府也还没有发布官方的估计。政府总是在向前逃跑，媒体和社会则紧随其后。