Most people who start working out in hopes of shedding pounds wind up disappointed, a lamentable circumstance familiar to both exercisers and scientists. Multiple studies, many of them covered in this column, have found that without major changes to diet, exercise typically results in only modest weight loss at best (although it generally makes people much healthier). Quite a few exercisers lose no weight. Some gain.
许多为减几磅体重而开始锻炼的人总是以失望收场，这是锻炼者和科学家都熟知的悲剧。不少研究——本专栏就刊载过一些——都指出，假如饮食没太大改变，一般情况下锻炼最多让人变轻一点点（尽管它通常能使我们更健康）。很多运动都不能减重，有些还增重。
But there is encouraging news about physical activity and weight loss in a new study by researchers at the University of Copenhagen. It found that exercise does seem to contribute to waist-tightening, provided that the amount of exercise is neither too little nor, more strikingly, too much.
不过，最近由哥本哈根大学(University of Copenhagen)的研究者进行的一项新实验给我们带来了关于运动与减重的振奋人心的好消息。研究发现，锻炼似乎有助于收紧腰腹部，条件是运动量不要太小——更令人惊讶的是：也不要太大。
To reach that conclusion, the Danish scientists rounded up a group of pudgy and sedentary young men, a segment of the population increasingly common in Denmark, as elsewhere in the world. The volunteers, most in their 20s or early 30s, visited the scientists' lab to undergo baseline measurements of their aerobic fitness, body fat, metabolic rates and general health. None had diabetes, high blood pressure or heart disease and, while heavy, they were not obese.
此结论由以下实验得出：丹麦科学家集合了一些身材矮胖并久坐不动的年轻男性参与者。这类人群在丹麦逐渐壮大，世界其他地区亦是如此。他们多为20来岁或30出头的年轻人。参与者先在研究者的实验室里进行了有氧适能、体脂率、新陈代谢速率和综合健康状况的基本指标测试。其中没有一人患糖尿病、高血压或心脏病，他们尽管体重不算轻，倒也达不到肥胖的程度。
The men were then randomly assigned to exercise or not. The non-exercisers, who served as controls, returned to their former routines, with no change to their diets or sedentary ways.
接下来，这些年轻男性被随机分配到运动组和非运动组去。非运动组的人作为对照，恢复以往习惯，不改饮食结构，照样久坐不动。
A second group began 13 weeks of almost daily moderate workouts, consisting of jogging, cycling or otherwise sweating for about 30 minutes, or until each man had burned 300 calories (based on his individual metabolic rate).
第二组参与者开始了为期13周的锻炼计划：几乎每日都进行包括慢跑、骑车或其他能让人出汗的适度运动。每天30分钟，或直到消耗了300卡路里的热量（基于个人的代谢速率）。
A third group tackled a more strenuous routine of almost hourlong workouts, during which each man burned 600 calories.
第三组实行的是更艰苦的训练：每天将近1小时，期间每人消耗600卡路里热量。
The men were asked not to consciously change their diets, either by eating more or less, and to keep detailed daily food diaries throughout the 13 weeks.
研究人员要求参与者不要去刻意改变饮食习惯，既不多吃也不节制，并且在13周内每天都要记下详细的食谱。
On certain designated days, they also were asked to don sophisticated motion sensors that would measure how active they were in the hours before and after exercise.
在指定的一些日子里，参与者需要戴上精密的运动传感器，用来测量他们运动前和运动后几小时内的活动强度。
At the end of the 13 weeks, the members of the control group weighed the same as they had at the start, and their body fat percentages were unchanged, which is hardly surprising.
第13周结束时，对照组和实验前体重相当，体脂率不变。这没什么可奇怪的。
On the other hand, the men who had exercised the most, working out for 60 minutes a day, had managed to drop some flab, losing an average of five pounds each. The scientists calculated that that weight loss, while by no means negligible, was still about 20 percent less than would have been expected given the number of calories the men were expending each day during exercise, if food intake and other aspects of their life had held steady.
相比之下，运动最剧烈（每天60分钟）的一组，成功甩掉了一定的赘肉，平均每人减了5磅（约2.27公斤）。研究者计算了他们减下去的重量，尽管不容忽视，却比期望值——根据每日运动消耗的卡路里算得的数字（前提是食物摄取量和其他生活方式保持不变）——少了20%。
Meanwhile, the volunteers who'd worked out for only 30 minutes a day did considerably better, shedding about seven pounds each, a total that, given the smaller number of calories that they were burning during exercise, represents a hefty 83 percent "bonus" beyond what would have been expected, says Mads Rosenkilde, a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Copenhagen who led the study.
然而与此同时，每天做30分钟运动的参与者减重效果显著多了：平均每人卸下了7磅（约3.18公斤）。领导该实验的哥本哈根大学博士候选人马瑟·罗森吉尔德(Mads Rosenkilde)说，鉴于他们在运动中消耗的卡路里少，这7磅相当于是期望值基础上再外加83%的重磅“大礼包”，
That impressive weight-loss windfall for the light-duty exercisers "was a bit of a shock," he says.
他说，轻度运动带来的赫赫减肥成果“有点儿让人吃惊”。
And it's not completely clear from the experiment's additional data just why participants in that group were so much more successful at dropping pounds than the other men.
从该实验的数据来看，这一组参与者减重效果比其他人出色得多的原因仍无法清楚解释。
But there are hints, Mr. Rosenkilde says. Food diaries for the group burning 600 calories a day reveal that they subsequently were increasing the size of their meals and snacks, although the additional caloric intake wasn't enough to explain the difference in their results. "They probably were eating more" than they jotted down, Mr. Rosenkilde speculates.
不过罗森吉尔德说，这里面还是有蛛丝马迹可循的。每天运动消耗600卡路里的参与者食谱记录表明，他们随即增大了每餐的份量和零食量；尽管这些额外的卡路里摄入不足以解释结果的巨大差异。“可能他们实际上吃掉的比草草记录下来的更多，”罗森吉尔德推测。
They also were resolutely inactive in the hours outside of exercise, the motion sensors show. When they weren't working out, they were, for the most part, sitting. "I think they were fatigued," Mr. Rosenkilde says.
并且在锻炼以外的时间里，运动传感器显示他们都依然处于怠惰状态：只要不健身，就基本上一直坐着。“我觉得他们是太累了，”罗森吉尔德说。
The men exercising half as much, however, seemed to grow energized and inspired. Their motion sensors show that, compared with the men in the other two groups, they were active in the time apart from exercise. "It looks like they were taking the stairs now, not the elevators, and just moving around more," Mr. Rosenkilde says. "It was little things, but they add up."
反倒是运动量低一半的参与者看起来变得精力更充沛、更有活力了。运动传感器显示，比起另两组参与者，他们不锻炼的时候也能够积极地动起来。“他们貌似都不坐电梯，改爬楼梯了。而且到处走动也更多了。”罗森吉尔提到：“虽说都是小事，但滴水穿石。”
The overall message, he says, is that the shorter exercise sessions seem to have allowed the men "to burn calories without wanting to replace them so much." The hourlong sessions were more draining and prompted a stronger and largely unconscious desire to replenish the lost energy stores.
他说，总而言之，较短的运动时间可能让人“燃烧掉了不至于很想补回来的卡路里。”一小时之久的锻炼让人筋疲力竭，从而激发了潜意识里更大更强烈的，渴望弥补损失掉的能量储备的欲望。
Of course, the study involved only young men, whose metabolisms and weight-loss motivations may be quite different from those of other groups, including women.
当然，此研究只包含了年轻男性，他们的新陈代谢和减肥动力也许与其他人群大不相同，比如女性。
The study also was short-term, and the results might shift over the course of, say, a year of continued exercise, Mr. Rosenkilde says. The men working out for 60 minutes were, after all, packing on some muscle, while the 30-minute exercisers were not. That extra muscle offset some of the vigorous exercisers' weight loss in the short term - they sloughed off fat but added muscle, decreasing their net loss - but over the longer term it could amp up their metabolism, aiding in weight control.
罗森吉尔德解释道，此研究历时较短，实验结果也许随着时间推移而更改。比如坚持锻炼一年。但不管怎么说，每天运动60分钟的人增长了一些肌肉，而30分钟运动组则没有。那些新长出来的肌肉抵消了一部分短期内由于剧烈运动而减下去的重量——他们甩掉了肥肉而长出了肌肉，所以净减重量就少了。不过长此以往，这样的锻炼可以加快新陈代谢，帮助控制体重。
Still, if the relationship between working out and losing weight remains complicated and tangled, one point is unequivocal. The men who were sedentary "lost no weight at all," Mr. Rosenkilde says, so if you hope to shed pounds, "any amount of exercise is better than none."
即使锻炼与减重之间的关系仍模糊不清，但罗森吉尔德提到，有一点毋庸置疑：始终久坐不动的人“一点儿没瘦”。因此如果你希望减重，“哪怕稍稍动一动，都比不动强。”