NEW YORKERS, and particularly Manhattanites, are wringing their hands about the two dozen or so supertall luxury towers sprouting along the southern edge of Central Park. The builders are charging up to $100 million for apartments that offer helicopter views of lush foliage, jagged skylines, soothing rivers and angelic clouds. They lure the superrich, many with suspect foreign assets, to sky-high mansions. They enrich themselves by exploiting weak zoning rules to pour hideous implants into Manhattan cavities.
二十多座超高层豪华公寓楼沿中央公园南缘修建起来，令纽约人，尤其是曼哈顿人扼腕痛惜。这些豪宅建造商出售的公寓套房，开价高达1亿美元，里面可以看到直升机上的那种景观：繁茂的植被、锯齿状的天际线、舒缓的河流、天使般的云彩。开发商引诱超级富豪来购买这些天价豪宅，其中很多人在美国以外都有可疑的资产。它们利用有空子可钻的土地规划，把这些丑恶的建筑物安插在曼哈顿的地界内，赚取了大笔金钱。
Like the braggadocio towers of medieval Florence, these concrete fingers in the sky mar the view for the rest of us for miles around. Maybe new laws and regulations will eventually limit their number and size, but much damage is already done, and the profits they earn are bound to sustain the trend for quite a while. Residents around Prospect Park, in Brooklyn: Beware. Oceanfront Queens: Wanna look like Miami Beach?
就像中世纪佛罗伦萨那些浮夸的高塔一样，对我们周围几英里的人来说，这些高耸入云的建筑物是对景观的破坏。或许新的法律法规最终将限制它们的数量和规模，但大部分损害已经造成，开发商赚取的利润也必然会让这种趋势持续相当长的一段时间。布鲁克林展望公园(Prospect Park)周围的居民们：你们得留神了。皇后区的海滨：你们想看起来像迈阿密海滩一样吗？
Instead of wringing our hands, let’s rub our palms and share in the profits. Let the city impose a relatively simple new tax — officially called a user fee — based on the grandeur of each lofty view. The tax could be duly scaled, like rents, for the height of each unit, and discounted, like theater seats, for undesirable obstructions. Informally, let’s call it the “window tax.”
不要扼腕痛惜了，让我们来击掌庆贺、分享收益吧。让这座城市依据每套高层房屋的景观美好程度，来征收一个相对简单的新税种——官方名称就叫“使用费”。像租金一样，这种税可以也可以根据每套房的楼层高度适当调整，而且像剧院座位那样，如果视线被碍眼的东西阻挡，这种税也可以打折。通俗一点，我们就把它叫做“窗口税”吧。
Roughly speaking, residents would be charged $10 to $15 a month per middle-level window with a clear view of parkland or water, less at lower levels, but maybe $25 above 1,000 feet, with $5 extra for doors that open to terrace landings. Windows that offer what realty agents euphemize as “city views” could be charged half-price. According to my back-of-the-envelope calculations, we could reap at least $1 million a year from each of the giants.
大致来说，每扇处于中层的窗口，如果窗外是绿地或湖水、海水，居民将被收取每月10至15美元，楼层越低费用越低，但高度超过1000英尺（300米）的窗口也许就会收取25美元，门外有露台的还要额外多收5美元。窗外景象如果被房产代理人委婉称为“城市景观”，则收取半价。我顺手笔算了一下，如果对这些摩天大楼征收窗口税，每年每栋可以收取至少100万美元。
The main targets here are the new cloudscrapers clustered just south of Central Park, whose value is hugely augmented — indeed created — by expensive, expansive public amenities like the park, and whose insertion into the city’s grid imposes new tensions on city life and services. Yet in fairness, the window tax also needs to be imposed on the buildings fronting the park on all four sides, some of which have stood for more than a century.
这里主要说的是中央公园以南的那一堆摩天大楼，像中央公园这种昂贵且广阔的公共设施，大大增加了它们的价值——实际上是创造了它们的价值。而它们像这样矗立起来，却给这座城市的生活和服务增添了新的压力。不过，公平地说，中央公园周围一圈的所有建筑物，都需要征收窗口税，虽然其中一些房屋已经有上百年的历史。
As the ads for these residences on Fifth Avenue and Central Park South, West and North testify daily, their value is immeasurably enhanced by temptingly advertised “pk vus,” to a degree that has never been properly incorporated into conventional real estate taxes. (Confession: I live on the Upper West Side and have an obstructed angle view of a few Central Park trees from my roof deck; that should cost me maybe $1 a month.)
就像第五大道及中央公园南缘、西缘及北缘的住宅广告每天宣传的，这种吹嘘“公园景观”(pk vus)的诱人广告，促使其价值获得了不可估量的提升，而传统的房产税从未以恰当的方式将这部分增值纳入其中。（我坦白：我住在上西城，即使从天台上看，视线也会被挡住，只能看到中央公园的少量树木。我可能每个月会被收取1美元。）
The window tax would be legally enacted as a user fee. In principle, each tenant with a great vista would be paying a royalty for the privilege of consuming the city’s boundless beauty, eyeballing and mentally photographing costly municipal endowments, night and day, season by season. And the proceeds of the tax would be spent on sustaining and enhancing the parks, streets and waterways they gaze upon. The new revenue would also free up city money to be spent on affordable housing, education and other essential services. Certainly the city’s skilled lawyers can find ways to make sure that the tax does not burden people of modest means.
窗口税将以使用费的名义列入法律。原则上，每个能够欣赏到美丽景色的房客，都要为自己享有的特权支付使用费，一年四季、日日夜夜欣赏，用心感受城市里宝贵的自然风景。所得税款将用于维护、美化他们观赏的公园、街道及水道。有了这部分新收入后，市政府还可以挪出一部分资金，用于保障性住房、教育及其他基本服务。这座城市里老练的律师们，肯定能找到方法，确保这种税不会给中等收入者造成负担。
There is ample precedent for such a tax: City governments nationwide already allow similar fees in other contexts. For example, through neighborhood improvement districts they can impose levies for storm water management and recreational facilities. A similar structure could be created here — the Central Park Vista District. Creating such a district in Manhattan could be just the beginning of a generous new revenue source.
有很多征收此类税款的先例：全国各地的市政府已经允许在其他情形下收取类似的费用。例如，它们可以通过居住环境改进片区，来对风暴雨水管理及休闲设施征税。可以通过中央公园景观区(Central Park Vista District)建立类似的收费系统。在曼哈顿设立这样的区划，可能只是获得丰厚收入的第一步。
Properly targeted, a window tax would be so appealing and fair that even the realty-bound Legislature of New York would find it difficult to prohibit the project. And now is the time to act, while Albany reels from the successful prosecution of its legislative leaders.
如果定位准确，窗口税会极具吸引力，而且很公平，甚至连纽约州议会(Legislature of New York)都很难禁止该计划。现在是行动的时候了，虽然奥尔巴尼(Albany)因为受到了立法机构领袖的起诉，而受到了影响。
I should confess that four decades ago, when I was writing editorials for The Times, a group of us briefly suggested a window tax around Central Park to save the neglected, crime-ridden public green; with bankruptcy beckoning, no one noticed, and we let the idea drop.
坦白说，我四十年前为《纽约时报》写社论的时候，我们一群人曾短暂地建议，对中央公园周边的住户征收窗口税，以拯救这块被忽视且犯罪猖獗的公共绿地；由于大家更关心破产问题，没人关注这个问题，我们就打消了这一念头。
Now that mid-Manhattan is under vertical assault, a Central Park Vista District, duly defined and refined by experience, could inspire other neighborhoods. In time, Chelsea may like what it learns and form its own Hudson View District. The Miss Liberty Vista District, charging Wall Street’s towers, will not be far behind. The Rockaways in Queens may feel safely remote for the time being, but their boardwalks could shine in an Atlantic View District.
如今既然曼哈顿中城受到了高耸建筑的威胁，妥善划定中央公园景观区，并依据经验重新调整，就能够激励其他社区。最后，切尔西或许会喜欢它学到的经验，创立哈德逊景观区。创立自由女神像景观区后，对华尔街高楼收费也就不远了。皇后区罗卡韦地区目前可能会感觉此事还很遥远，但如果有大西洋景观区，那里的木板路就可以维护得闪闪发亮了。
New York seems destined to continue growing vertically, and prudent restraints always seem to lag behind. So we need to reckon with the giant costs of growth, and find a way to make its wealthiest beneficiaries pay for their privilege. From where I sit, I see a clear opportunity.
纽约似乎注定会继续垂直发展，谨慎的限制政策似乎总是落后一步。因此我们需要解决发展带来的巨大成本，寻找让富有的受益者为其特权付费的方法。在我看来，这是一个明显的机会。