It was cheaper rent that initially drew Jesse Warner-Levine, 34, and Hallie Nickelson, 33, to Wallabout, a fairly isolated Brooklyn neighborhood on the fringe of Clinton Hill near the Brooklyn Navy Yard. But it was bicycling that made them stay.
起初，34岁的杰西·华纳-莱文(Jesse Warner-Levine)与33岁的哈莉·尼克尔森(Hallie Nickelson)是因为较便宜的房租，才来到布鲁克林海军造船厂(Brooklyn Navy Yard)附近那处与克林顿山(Clinton Hill)接壤、颇为与世隔绝的布鲁克林社区沃拉博特(Wallabout)的。但后来，则是骑自行车的习惯让两人留在了那里。
The two-bedroom one-bath walk-up they moved into three years ago for $1,800 a month had windows on three sides and was cheaper and more charming than previous apartments they had shared with roommates in other parts of Brooklyn. Yet the closest subway line — the G, which requires a transfer to get to Manhattan — was half a mile away and erratic, turning what should have been a 25-minute commute into 45 minutes or more, depending on when the train showed up. As an alternative, they turned to their bikes, heaving them up and down three flights of stairs each day in exchange for a faster, more reliable commute.
他们三年前搬入的这套带两间卧室和一间浴室、每月租金1800美元（约合人民币11246元）的无电梯公寓，有三面墙壁都开了窗户，而且比他们之前在布鲁克林其它地方与室友合住的那些公寓更漂亮，租金却更便宜。然而，距此最近的地铁线——需要经过一次换乘才能到曼哈顿的G线，却在半英里外，而且还不太规律。这就使得原本只要25分钟的通勤时间变成了45分钟，乃至更久——取决于那趟地铁会何时到站。作为一种替代，他们转向了自己的自行车，每天要爬三段楼梯，把车扛上扛下，以换取一种更快捷、更可靠的通勤方式。
Now, they say, they can’t imagine using any other transportation to get around the city.
他们说，现在，他俩已经无法想象通过其它方式穿行在这座城市里了。
Last month, they renewed their lease for one more year at $2,050 a month, in part to keep their rent manageable but also to preserve their biking habit. “We talked about moving,” Ms. Nickelson said, “but now it’s like we need to live near the bridges because we’re so committed to commuting with bikes.”
上个月，他们以月租2050美元（约合人民币12807元）的价格，将租约又续签了一年，部分是为了让租金保持在可控范围内，但也是为了保持他们骑车的习惯。“我们商量过搬家的事，”尼克尔森说，“但现在，我们似乎都想住在这几座大桥附近，因为我们都太喜欢骑车上班了。”
As the search for more affordable real estate in New York City pushes deeper into neighborhoods that were once considered out of the way, bicycle lanes are taking on new importance. Since 2007, the city has carved out more than 350 miles of bike lanes in the five boroughs, according to the Department of Transportation. As a result, the distance from the nearest subway or bus stop has become less of a drawback for the two-wheeled set, particularly in transit-challenged areas of Brooklyn like Red Hook, Greenpoint and parts of Bushwick. In a twist to the real estate catch phrase, location, location, location, brokers say, bicycling is beginning to influence some real estate decisions.
当你为了在纽约寻找更经济的住处，而深入那些曾被认为无路可达的社区时，自行车道便有了新的重要意义。据运输部(Department of Transportation)统计，自2007年以来，这座城市已经在五个大区中，拓出超过350英里（约563公里）的自行车道。结果，对于这种两个轮子的工具，到最近的地铁口或公交车站的距离，就不再是那么大的不利条件了，尤其是在布鲁克林一些交通不便的区域，比如红钩区(Red Hook)、绿点区(Greenpoint)和布什维克区(Bushwick)的部分地方。经纪人说，与房地产的那些醒目标语——位置、位置，还是位置截然相反的是，骑车开始影响到一些人在房产购置上的抉择。
“Your housing options change when you buy a bike and use it,” said Lyon Porter, a sales and leasing director of Town Residential, who relied heavily on a fixed-gear Dutch cruiser when living in Williamsburg several years ago and continues to cycle frequently around the city. “People get so much more for their money in this tight, compressed market,” when freed from the need to be near a train line, he said. “Your definable boundaries are different on a bike.” Without one, he said, “your map changes.”
“当你买了一辆自行车并投入使用后，你对住房的选择就会发生变化，”Town Residential公司的房屋销售兼租赁部主任里昂·波特(Lyon Porter)说。几年前，他还住在威廉斯堡区(Williamsburg)时，就非常依赖一辆荷兰巡航定速自行车，而且一直以来经常骑着它在市内到处转悠。当人们不再需要住在地铁附近时，“他们就能用自己那些钱，在这个房源紧张的市场里找到好得多的住处，”他说，“骑上自行车，你的活动边界就不一样了。”而没有自行车，他说，“你的地图会发生改变。”
By zipping along Flushing Avenue’s bike lanes and across the Manhattan Bridge, Mr. Warner-Levine, a retail wine salesman, found he could make it to his job in Lower Manhattan in 18 minutes flat. His wife, Ms. Nickelson, takes about 30 minutes pedaling up First Avenue to get to United Nations Plaza, where she works in administration for Unicef. He carries his bicycle to the basement of the wine shop. She chains hers up on the sidewalk outside her office. Apart from work, the couple from Wallabout were soon cruising to SoHo for brunch or Greenpoint for drinks, roughly a 20-minute ride from their apartment in either direction. “Most of my friends use bikes to get around Brooklyn,” Ms. Nickelson said. “It’s the best and most direct way for everyone to meet up at a central point.”
骑车沿着法拉盛大道(Flushing Avenue)的自行车道驰骋，然后穿过曼哈顿大桥(Manhattan Bridge)，身为红酒零售业销售员的华纳-莱文发现，他刚好花18分钟就能赶到曼哈顿下城区上班。而他的妻子尼克尔森则蹬车往第一大道上游行进，大约花30分钟就能到达联合国广场(United Nations Plaza)，她在那里的联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)行政部门工作。他把自行车放在红酒商店的地下室中；而她用锁链把车拴在办公室外的人行道上。除了上班，这对来自沃拉博特的夫妻，没过多久便骑车逛到了苏豪区(SoHo)吃早午餐，或去绿点区喝酒。从他们的公寓往这两个方向骑，都是大约20分钟的路程。“我的大部分朋友都是骑车到布鲁克林的，”尼克尔森说，“对每个人来说，这是到一个中间位置汇合的最佳方案，也是最直接的方式。”
Getting together with friends at a bar in Prospect Heights from Greenpoint, for example, can take nearly an hour by bus or train versus half an hour by bicycle. “I noticed my friends who don’t ride bikes,” she said, “it’s more of a hassle for them.”
比如，去绿点区展望高地(Prospect Heights)的一家酒吧与朋友们聚会，搭乘巴士或地铁可能要花将近一个小时，但骑车只需半个小时。“我注意到那些不骑车的朋友，”她说，“对他们而言，这更像是件麻烦事。”
Last month, Dana Johns, a physician assistant, doubled her living space and cut her rent by 20 percent by moving from a two-bedroom in the East Village she shared with a roommate to a two-bedroom, two-bath she also shares at 110 Green Street, a luxury rental building in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, that advertises “bike storage” and “bike-friendly streets” on its website. Ms. Johns has a Bianchi Pista and a Brompton folding bike she stores indoors, but to ease her commute, she bought a vintage ocean coaster at a flea market in Bushwick for $75. The two locks she uses to tie it up on the street, she said, cost more.
上个月，一位助理医师达娜·琼斯(Dana Johns)住进了一套面积翻倍、租金却降了20%的房子，因为她从东村(East Village)那套与一位室友合住的双卧室公寓，搬到了布鲁克林绿点区的一栋豪华租赁公寓楼“绿街110号”(110 Green Street)中，住进一套带两间卧室、两间浴室的合住公寓里。那栋公寓楼在自己网站上宣传了其具备“自行车停放处”和“适宜骑行的街道”的特点。琼斯有一辆比安奇(Bianchi Pista)自行车和一辆布朗普顿(Brompton)折叠自行车停在家里，但为让通勤更轻松一些，她又在布什维克的跳蚤市场以75美元（约合人民币469元）的价格，买了一辆旧的海上过山车(ocean coaster)。她说，她用来把车拴在大街上的这两把锁都比车要贵。
Now, instead of “waiting forever for the G” and transferring in Queens to the E to get to her office on 48th Street in Manhattan, she said, “I take my beater bike in the morning across the Pulaski Bridge and park it at the 7.” By hopping the train one stop to Grand Central, she said, she avoids showing up to work sweaty. With the weather getting nicer, she added, “I’m working toward biking over the Queensboro Bridge to go direct to work.”
现在，她不用“苦等G线地铁”并在皇后区转乘E线去曼哈顿48街上班了，她说，“我早上骑着那辆旧自行车，穿过普拉斯基大桥(Pulaski Bridge)，然后把车停在7号线附近。”只要再搭一站地铁去中央车站(Grand Central)，她说，就可以不必汗流浃背地进公司工作了。随着天气越来越凉爽，她补充道，“我打算把车骑过皇后区大桥(Queensboro Bridge)，直接去上班。”   
Bicycle commuters are still vastly in the minority in New York City, where most people use subways and buses to get around. But their numbers are growing. Since 2000, the ratio of people who biked to work in New York increased from 0.5 percent to 0.8 percent, according to 2008-2012 statistics from the American Community Survey. (The survey did not specify how often a bike was used to commute to work.) Nationally, 0.6 percent bike to work, according to the latest data from the United States Census Bureau.
骑车通勤者在纽约市依然属于极少数，大部分人都搭乘地铁和公共汽车四处奔波，但前者的人数正在不断增长。据《美国社区调查》(American Community Survey)2008年至2012年的数据，自2000年以后，纽约市骑车上班族的比率从0.5%增长到了0.8%（这项调查没有具体说明一辆自行车用于通勤的频率）。而在全国范围内，据美国人口普查局(United States Census Bureau)的最新数据，在美国全国范围内，有0.6%的上班族骑车通勤。
Of the 27,759 New Yorkers who indicated they use a bicycle to get to work in the 2008-2012 survey, nearly half live in Brooklyn, including districts that encompass the neighborhoods of Fort Greene and Clinton Hill; Greenpoint and Williamsburg; Carroll Gardens and Red Hook; Northern Crown Heights and Prospect Heights; and Bushwick, according to an analysis by Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College.
根据皇后学院(Queens College)的一名社会学教授安德鲁·A·贝弗里奇(Andrew A. Beveridge)的一份分析报告，在2008到2012年的这次调查中，自称骑车通勤的这27759名纽约人当中，几乎有一半都住在布鲁克林区，包括格林堡(Fort Greene)与克林顿山、绿点与威廉斯堡、卡罗尔花园(Carroll Gardens)与红钩、北皇冠高地(Northern Crown Heights)和展望高地、还有布什维克等社区。
David Ortiz, who opened Dave’s Wear House in Little Italy with partners about three years ago, has seen those statistics reflected in his business, which began primarily as a sneaker store but quickly found a niche serving cyclists after bike sales took off. “We get a lot of customers using bikes as an alternative to mass transit, especially in neighborhoods like Brooklyn Navy Yard and Clinton Hill, where it only takes about 20 minutes to ride to Manhattan and there isn’t a convenient subway option,” he said. “The subway costs about $5 a day and our bikes cost about $400, so we tell customers if they ride the bike 80 times, the bike paid for itself.”
约莫三年前和伙伴们一起在小意大利区(Little Italy)开了一家戴夫服饰馆(Dave’s Wear House)的大卫·欧提兹(David Ortiz)发现，这些数据已经反映在他的生意当中了。这家店起初是一家主营运动鞋的商店，但自从自行车销售业务起飞之后，他们很快就通过服务这些骑行者，为自己找到了一个特色市场。“我们有许多客户，都把自行车当成了公共交通的替代选项，特别是在布鲁克林海军造船厂与克林顿山这样的社区中。从这两个地方骑车去曼哈顿大约只需20分钟，而且没什么便利的地铁线路，”他说，“乘地铁的费用大约是每天5美元（约合人民币31元），而我们这些自行车的价格大约是400美元（约合人民币2499元）。所以我们会对客人说，假如他们能骑车80次，这辆车就值回售价了。”
As more businesses have moved to fairly sequestered Brooklyn neighborhoods like Dumbo, Gowanus and the Navy Yard, said Victoria Hagman, the broker-owner of the Realty Collective in Brooklyn, she has noticed more people relying on bicycles. “It’s so difficult to get around Brooklyn by train or bus,” she said. “If you work in Dumbo and you’re living in Fort Greene, there’s no point in hopping on the subway. You’re going to be hopping on your bike.” Depending on where you live in Fort Greene, she noted, you can take the C line or a bus to Dumbo in about 20 minutes, if you time it exactly right. Biking cuts that time in half and puts you on your own schedule.
随着维多利亚·海格曼(Victoria Hagman)的业务更多转移到了布鲁克林一些非常偏僻的社区，比如丹波(Dumbo)、郭瓦纳斯(Gowanus)和海军造船厂，这位布鲁克林Realty Collective地产经纪公司的所有者说，她已留意到，有更多人依赖于骑车出行了。“无论是坐公交车还是乘地铁，想要跑遍布鲁克林都非常困难，”她说，“如果你在丹波工作，却住在格林堡，那搭乘地铁就毫无意义。你得骑上你的自行车。”具体要看你住在格林堡的什么地方，她提到，你可以搭乘C线或一趟公交车，如果时间掐得准，大约20分钟可到丹波。但骑车会让这个时间缩短一半，并让你能按自己的计划行事。
There are also side benefits. Not only is biking eco-conscious, cyclists say, it’s healthy. “From a personal level, it makes my life better,” said Mr. Warner-Levine, the wine salesman. “I’m in a better mood when I arrive to work and I’m certainly in a better mood when I arrive home from work.”
还有一些附带的好处。骑车不仅是一种具有环保意识的行为，自行车爱好者们说，而且还是一种健康活动。“从个人层面上说，骑车让我的生活更加美好，”红酒销售员华纳-莱文说，“骑车来上班的时候，我的心情会更好，而且下班回家时也一定是好心情。”
Spotting a way to market neighborhoods often viewed as remote because of transportation limitations, some real estate companies, including StreetEasy.com, AptsandLofts.com and Halstead Property have begun incorporating the location of nearby Citi Bike stations to the list of public transportation options for online real estate listings. Separately, Citi Bike provides an online map that shows how many bikes are checked into each station at a given moment.
在发现有方法可以推销那些因交通限制而常被视为偏远之处的社区后，包括StreetEasy.com、AptsandLofts.com 和Halstead Property在内的一些房地产公司，已经开始把房产附近的城市共享自行车停靠站(Citi Bike stations)位置，列入了在线房源的公共交通选项清单。另外，城市自行车共享计划还提供了一张在线地图，可以显示每个停靠站在某个时刻有多少亮自行车停靠。
“Many potential buyers and renters place bicycle-related requirements higher and higher on their list of must-haves,” wrote Gene Keyser, an avid bicyclist and a broker at Halstead Property, in a post last year on his blog titled “The Velocipede Effect: Bikes Sway Home Prices.” “Unlike years past, some are choosing to pass on properties purely because bicycle storage is difficult or unavailable.”
“许多潜在买家和租客，都把与自行车相关的要求列在了他们'必有'清单中越来越高的位置，”作为一名骑行爱好者兼Halstead Property公司的经纪人，基因·凯瑟(Gene Keyser)去年在博客里发表了一篇题为《脚踏车效应：自行车撼动了住宅价格》(The Velocipede Effect: Bikes Sway Home Prices)的文章写道，“与过去数年不同的是，有的人决定放弃某些房产，纯粹是因为那里存放自行车很困难，或者根本无处停车。”
At least one broker, Elliot Bogod, the managing director at Broadway Realty, is offering a $95 annual Citi Bike membership to the buyer of a $1.295 million penthouse duplex condo for sale in Battery Park City, partly to remind those concerned with its relative isolation at the southern tip of Manhattan that cycling is an easy transit alternative. “Now since the city is so bike friendly,” Mr. Bogod said, people can hop on a Citi Bike from one of four stations in the vicinity and pedal along the Hudson River Park Bikeway, which runs from Battery Place to West 59th Street, where it connects with Riverside Park South. “I just met someone going to Fort Lee from Battery Park City to work,” Mr. Bogod said.
至少有一位经纪人，也就是百老汇地产公司(Broadway Realty)的总经理埃利奥特·博格(Elliot Bogod)，为了出售位于炮台公园城(Battery Park City)的一套价值129.5万美元（约合人民币809万元）的复式顶层豪华共管公寓，而给买家提供了一个年费95美元（约合人民币594元）的城市自行车共享计划会员身份。这样做一半是为了让那些担心该公寓地处曼哈顿南端相对偏僻之处的人知道，骑自行车是一种较为轻松的出行选择。“由于现在在纽约市骑车如此便利，”博格说，人们可以骑上一辆来自附近四个停靠点之一的共享自行车，沿着哈德逊河公园的自行车道(Hudson River Park Bikeway)骑行，这条车道从炮台广场(Battery Place)一直延伸到了西59街(West 59th Street)，并在那里与河滨公园南(Riverside Park South)相连。“我刚刚还遇见一个从炮台公园城前往李堡(Fort Lee)上班的人。”博格说。
Pedaling along the Hudson on a breezy spring day is one thing. Relying on a bike as your main mode of transportation is another. There is a resoluteness required to ride in the sticky summer heat, in the wet months of spring and as temperatures drop below freezing in winter. Gear — whether it be fleece-lined bicycling tights or gloves coated with beeswax to make them water-resistant — is important. So is a place to change once you get to work.
在微风拂面的春天沿着哈德逊河踩脚踏车是一回事，把自行车当成你的主要交通方式则是另一回事。在黏腻而炎热的夏天、连月潮湿的春天以及温度降到零度以下的冬天骑车，你就需要下定决心。骑车的装备——无论是有抓绒内衬的紧身衣，还是涂了防水蜜蜡的手套，都十分重要。到达上班地点后，有个换衣服的地方也很重要。
Yet die-hard commuters shrug off such discomforts. “In the hottest months it’s a little gross, but most of the year you’re not that sweaty,” said Joe Eisman, 45, a labor union organizer who has commuted five days a week by bike from Brooklyn to Manhattan for seven years, most recently about 65 miles a week to the Flatiron district and back. “I think you get dirtier sitting down in the subway.”
但那些勇猛的通勤者对各种不便都毫不在意。“在最热的那几个月，情况是有点儿糟糕，但一年的大部分时候你都不会那样满身大汗，”今年45岁的工会组织者乔•艾斯曼(Joe Eisman)说，他已经一连七年时间，每周五天骑车从布鲁克林到曼哈顿通勤了。最近，他大约每周骑行65英里（约105公里）往返熨斗区(Flatiron district)。“我觉得你在地铁里坐下来会弄得更脏。”
Mr. Eisman bought a Red Hook rowhouse last year, partly for the space his money can buy. “I can afford more, in part, because it hasn’t exploded with the speed of, say, a Williamsburg, because you’re not one stop in on the L,” he said. The approximately $400 a square foot he paid for the property was half the cost of what he found in his former neighborhood of Prospect Heights.
艾斯曼去年买了一栋红钩区的排屋，部分原因是这栋房屋他能买得起。“从某种程度上说，我能买更贵一点的地方，因为这里还没有像威廉斯堡那样迅猛发展，这里并不是L线上的一站，”他说。他为这栋房屋支付的每平方英尺大约400美元（约合人民币每平方米26888元）的价格，只是他之前在展望高地社区中发现的房产售价的一半。
With the money he saved he is gut-renovating the place. Included in the plans, drawn up by Allison Reeves of ardesign, is a shed with a grass roof specifically for his bike.
他用省下来的钱，阔绰地装修了这处房子。在ardesign公司的艾利森·里夫斯(Allison Reeves)起草的装修计划中，还包括了一间专门为他的自行车设计的、有草皮屋顶的车棚。
But another aspect of the property sweetened the deal: His new abode is just one block from a recently finished section of the Brooklyn Waterfront Greenway, a planned 14-mile bike route — a significant upgrade from his previous route, which involved cycling next to heavy car traffic along Flatbush Avenue each day. “It’s a great commute,” Mr. Eisman said, “I feel the salt air and the sun, and coming home I see the sunset.”
而这处房产的另一方面情况，让这项交易变得很甜美：他的新居同最近刚刚完工的一段布鲁克林水滨林荫道(Brooklyn Waterfront Greenway)只有一个街区之隔。按计划，这里将建成一条长达14英里（约23公里）的自行车道——这是对他既有路线的一次显著升级，因为他原来每天要沿着弗拉特布什大道(Flatbush Avenue)，在车流量很大的交通要道旁骑车。“这条林荫道是很棒的通勤路线，”艾斯曼说，“我感受着阳光与咸咸的空气，而且还可以在回家路上看日落。”