CLEVELAND —Although the show went on for five hours, a few things managed to go unmentioned at the 30th annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony on Saturday night here. Among the relevant topics not discussed: the solo catalog of Ringo Starr, who became the fourth and final Beatle to gain entry to the Hall twice over, this time as an individual; disco, rap and dance music, some of the rock-adjacent genres not represented in this year’s class; and the conspicuous decades-long absence of Bill Withers, one of the show’s honorees, from the music industry.
克利夫兰——周六晚上，第30届摇滚名人堂(Rock and Roll Hall of Fame)入驻仪式在这里举行。虽然仪式共进行了5个小时，但仍然遗漏了一些东西。没被讨论的重要话题包括：林戈·斯塔(Ringo Starr)的个人曲目——他成了第4位，也是最后一位两次入驻摇滚名人堂的“披头士”，这次是以个人身份；迪斯科、说唱和舞曲等与摇滚接近的音乐类型没有出现在今年的入驻名单里；此外本届入驻者之一比尔·威瑟斯(Bill Withers)显然已经远离音乐工业几十年了。
Mr. Withers, in a rare public appearance since ceasing to record or perform live in the 1980s — after gifting the world timeless hits like “Lean on Me” and “Ain’t No Sunshine” — alluded to his indefinite hiatus in a crowd-pleasing speech. “I watch a lot of ‘Judge Judy,’ ” he said. “I’m not out and about.” (Mr. Withers also managed to sneak in some insider digs, referring to record labels’ A&R executives as “antagonistic and redundant.”)
威瑟斯曾给世界带来永恒的金曲，比如《依靠我》(Lean on Me)和《没有阳光》(Ain’t No Sunshine)，从20世纪80年代起，他不再录音或演出，很少公开露面。他的致辞讨人喜欢，其中提到自己的长期缺席。“我经常看《法官朱迪》(Judge Judy)，”他说，“我不怎么外出走动（威瑟斯还偷偷泄露了一些内幕情况，说唱片公司的艺人发展部主管们‘充满敌意，十分多余’）。”
But at an event dedicated to conserving and protecting a musical tradition, Mr. Withers, 76, held back any real gripes about the business of rock ’n’ roll, and even sang backup for John Legend during a cover of “Lean on Me.” Stevie Wonder, in his induction speech for Mr. Withers, also skipped over the abrupt end to the soul singer’s career. Instead, the ceremony was about holding up — and keeping a tight grip on — consensus icons of the art form, like the late Lou Reed, inducted for a second time after his entry with the Velvet Underground, and the blues-rock guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan, who died in a helicopter crash in 1990 at age 35.
不过，这项活动旨在保护摇滚乐这项音乐传统，因此76岁的威瑟斯没有说出自己对摇滚业真正的牢骚，甚至还在约翰·雷真德(John Legend)翻唱《依靠我》时为他伴唱。史蒂夫·旺达(Stevie Wonder)在介绍威瑟斯的致辞中也没提这位灵魂乐手事业的突然终结。相反，这次典礼重在颂扬这种艺术形式中公认的偶像，对他们紧追不放，比如已故的卢·里德(Lou Reed)，这是他第二次入驻，上次是和“地下丝绒”(Velvet Underground)一起；还有布鲁斯摇滚吉他手史蒂夫·雷·沃恩(Stevie Ray Vaughan)，1990年他在直升机事故中去世，享年35岁。
Also welcomed into the Hall of Fame: the pop-punk godfathers Green Day (in their first year of eligibility, which occurs 25 years after an act’s debut record); the “5” Royales, an influential ’50s rhythm and blues group; Chicago’s multiracial Paul Butterfield Blues Band, from the ’60s; and Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, representing women in rock for the evening.
其他入驻名人堂的有：流行朋克教父绿日乐队（Green Day，他们第一年有资格参选就获此殊荣，参选资格是乐队或个人首张专辑发布25年之后）；20世纪50年代很有影响力的节奏布鲁斯乐队“5”Royales乐队；60年代芝加哥多种族乐队保罗·巴特菲尔德蓝调乐队(Paul Butterfield Blues Band)；以及琼·杰特与黑心乐队(Joan Jett & the Blackhearts)，它是当晚的摇滚界女性代表。
In large part a history lesson, the show took more risks when it looked forward. “There’s an effort to keep things relevant,” said Joel Peresman, the president of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Foundation, in an interview on Thursday, ahead of the show.
本次典礼在进行前瞻时更为冒险，这在很大程度上算是历史教训。“我们努力让自己跟上时代，”典礼前的周四，摇滚名人堂基金会主席乔尔·佩雷斯曼(Joel Peresman)在接受采访时说。
Inducting Ms. Jett from far outside the canon was Miley Cyrus, the pop provocateur, who opened her speech by describing “the first time I wanted to have sex with Joan Jett.” Ms. Jett is “what Superwoman really should be,” Ms. Cyrus said.
从前，杰特远被排除在正统之外。这次介绍她入驻的是叛逆的流行歌手麦莉·赛勒斯(Miley Cyrus)。赛勒斯的致辞开头是描述“我第一次想和琼·杰特做爱的情景”。赛勒斯说，“真实的女超人应该就是”杰特这个样子。
But even with a millennial ambassador on stage, the generational push and pull could be felt. Ricky Byrd, the guitarist for the Blackhearts, said his 13-year-old daughter was “truly not impressed by any of this,” unless it meant she could meet the rapper Iggy Azalea. “In my world, there is only one Iggy you want to meet,” Mr. Byrd said — meaning Iggy Pop — to whooping applause.
但是，尽管台上有千禧一代的代表，但仍能感到两代人之间的排斥与接受。“黑心”的吉他手里基·伯德(Ricky Byrd)说，他13岁的女儿“真的对所有这些没有任何兴趣”，除非这意味着她能见到说唱歌手伊基·阿塞莉亚(Iggy Azalea)。“在我的世界里，只有一个伊基是你想见的，”伯德说——他指的是伊基·波普(Iggy Pop)——他的话引来满堂喝彩。
Still, Mr. Peresman had pointed to the incorporation of current artists as a sign of progress for the institution. Tucked into the back bottom corner of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame museum down the street from the ceremony was the “Right Here, Right Now” exhibit, featuring costumes and props from artists like Taylor Swift, Rihanna and Lady Gaga. “You have an audience coming in here that you want to keep engaged,” Mr. Peresman said. “You definitely always want to have younger people come, because you want them to learn.”
不过，佩雷斯曼指出，让当代艺术家参与这次典礼是该机构进步的一个标志。摇滚名人堂博物馆就位于仪式举办地这条街上。博物馆后面的角落里正在举行一场展览——“此时此地”(Right Here,Right Now)，展示的是泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)、蕾哈娜(Rihanna)和Lady Gaga等艺术家的服装和道具。“我们想与参观展览的观众保持联系，”佩雷斯曼说，“我们当然一直想让年轻人来这里，因为我们想让他们了解我们。”
Ms. Cyrus’s Instagram feed could make a nice interactive addition to the collection: Before joining Ms. Jett onstage for a fiery rendition of “Crimson and Clover,” she posted photos of herself in leather overalls, breasts exposed (save for pasties adorned with two letter “J”s), and making an obscene hand gesture to a “no smoking” sign backstage.
赛勒斯在Instagram上发布的照片是这场展览的一个很好的互动式补充：在上台和杰特热情演唱《深红色与三叶草》(Crimson and Clover)前，她发布了自己身穿皮工装裤的照片，乳房露在外面（乳头贴上装饰着两个大写字母J），她对着后台“禁止抽烟”的标示牌竖起中指。
“It’s important to see another strong woman who does things her way — and she does,” Ms. Jett said of her spiritual protégé, before calling rock a subculture of “integrity, rebellion, frustration, alienation” — one that makes “eternal teenagers of all who follow it.”
“看到另一个强大的女人按照自己的方式行事，对我来说很重要——她就是这样做的，”杰特提到自己的这位精神门徒时说。她接着说，摇滚是一种关于“正直、叛逆、挫折感和异化”的亚文化，这种文化塑造出“永葆青春、执着于这种精神的摇滚人”。
Actual teenagers were present and screaming from the rafters for Green Day, who were introduced by Fall Out Boy, another punk-influenced, pop-leaning act. Pete Wentz, Fall Out Boy’s bassist, said in an interview, “If we want rock ’n’ roll to keep being this big, meaningful spirit and idea, then you have to be progressive and open to the idea that our culture is moving forward.”
现场有真正的青少年，他们举着“绿日”的牌子尖叫。介绍绿日乐队的是“闹翻天男孩”(Fall Out Boy)，这是一支受朋克乐影响、偏流行的乐队。“闹翻天男孩”的贝斯手皮特·温茨(Pete Wentz)在采访中说，“如果我们想让摇滚继续成为重要、有意义的精神理念，我们必须与时俱进，承认我们的文化在向前发展。”
While the packaging may be different, he added, “The things Kanye West is doing right now are super rock ’n’ roll.” (Mr. West will not be eligible for the Hall until 2028, although hip-hop acts like N.W.A. and LL Cool J have so far stalled on the ballot.)
他补充说，虽然表现形式可能不同，但是“坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)现在做的事情就是超级摇滚”（韦斯特要到2028年才具备入选摇滚名人堂的资格，不过到目前为止，N.W.A.和LL Cool J等嘻哈乐队或艺人没有受到投票人青睐）。
Appearances this year by modern rock ambassadors like Beck, Dave Grohl, John Mayer, Gary Clark Jr. and Tom Morello were more traditional. Patti Smith and Laurie Anderson gave moving tributes to Mr. Reed — “Everything that Lou taught me, I remember,” Ms. Smith said — while Karen O of the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, pregnant in a studded leather jacket, delivered a sharp version of Mr. Reed’s “Vicious.”
一些现代摇滚代表也亮相今年的入驻仪式，比如贝克(Beck)、戴夫·格罗尔(Dave Grohl)、约翰·迈耶(John Mayer)、小加里·克拉克(Gary Clark Jr.)和汤姆·莫雷洛(Tom Morello)，这是本次活动更传统的一面。帕蒂·史密斯(Patti Smith)和劳丽·安德森(Laurie Anderson)发表了追悼里德的感人致辞。史密斯说，“卢教我的所有东西，我都记得。”Yeah Yeah Yeahs乐队的卡伦·O(Karen O)用高音调翻唱了里德的《邪恶》(Vicious)。卡伦·O有孕在身，穿着镶有饰钉的皮夹克。
By the time Paul McCartney told a drummer-centric version of the Beatles’ origin story, it was past midnight and the crowd was growing visibly restless. (An edited version of the show will air May 30 on HBO.) Ringo Starr shared his solo moment anyway, welcoming most of the night’s performers back for “With a Little Help From My Friends.”
保罗·麦卡特尼(Paul McCartney)围绕着鼓手讲述“披头士”的早期故事时，时间已过午夜，观众越来越焦躁（这次典礼的剪辑版将于5月30日在HBO频道播出）。不管怎样，在林戈·斯塔的独唱时间，他还是邀请当晚的大多数表演者一起上台合唱《朋友们的一点帮助》(With a Little Help From My Friends)。