A RENOVATED FARM COMPOUND IN THE VAL D’ARAN
阿兰谷(VAL D’ARAN)的一座翻新的农家大院
3 MILLION EUROS ($4.1 MILLION)
300万欧元（410万美元，约合人民币2511万元）
This property consists of three traditional Pyrenean farm buildings — “bordas,” in the local Aranese language — that were renovated and reconfigured in 2000 to create a “coto,” or compound, with a total of six bedrooms.
这处房产包含三座传统的比利牛斯山(Pyrenean)农场房屋——当地的阿兰语称之为“bordas”。它们在2000年经修缮和改建，形成了一个“coto”，也就是建筑群。屋内共设有六间卧室。
Where possible, the original stone and wood were retained or refinished in the renovation, said Keith Kirwen, a property consultant in the Val d’Aran who is brokering the sale on behalf of the owner. Exteriors are native stone, the roofs slate. The interior walls are lime plaster, and the wooden beams and trimwork are cherry, oak and fir. An oil furnace powers a radiant-heat system throughout the compound.
基思·柯温(Keith Kirwen)是阿兰谷的置业顾问，也是此处房产的卖方经纪人。他表示，修缮过程中尽可能保留了原来的石砌和木结构，并进行过抛光修缮。外墙取材本地石材，屋顶则为板岩的。内墙以石灰粉刷，木梁和线脚采用樱桃木、橡木和杉木。为整个建筑群的辐射供暖系统提供能源的，是一台燃油炉。
The barn and the house on the property have been joined by a passageway, creating a total of about 5,100 square feet of interior space. The first floor of the main house is configured as a great room, housing a double-height living area with a fireplace and mountain views, a dining area, and an eat-in kitchen. The kitchen counters are stainless steel, and top-of-the-line appliances include a Lacanche gas range.
在仓房和主屋之间，有一条过道相连，由此形成的室内空间总面积约为5100平方英尺（约合474平方米）。主屋的一楼布置成了一个大房间，其中包括一个双倍挑高的居住区，带有壁炉，可眺望山景；一个用餐区；一个带就餐区的厨房。厨房有不锈钢柜台和顶级厨具，包括一台Lacanche煤气灶。
The second floor of the main house has two bedrooms and one bath; the third floor has the master bedroom, with a bay window affording valley views, and a children’s playroom that could be converted to a bedroom. The now-attached barn has a full-floor recreation room and a sleeping area with exposed beams on the second floor, and guest quarters with two bedrooms and two bath on the first.
主屋的二楼有两间卧室和一间浴室。三楼有一间带飘窗的主卧室，可以俯瞰山谷景观；一间儿童游戏室，可改建成卧室。如今与主屋相连的仓房，整个二层都是娱乐室，包括一处带外露式横梁的就寝区；一楼则为客房，设有两间卧室、两间浴室。
Across a cobblestone courtyard, a former stable now accommodates a professional-grade recording studio and garage space for three cars. The upper level has an exercise room, a sauna and a bath.
穿过铺着鹅卵石的庭院，即可到达从前的马厩。现在这里设有一间专业级的录音棚，以及可停放三辆车的车库。楼上有一间健身房、一间桑拿房和一间浴室。
The 1.8-acre property is 10 minutes from Vielha, the main town in the Val d’Aran, with 4,000 people; it is 20 minutes from the Baqueira/Beret ski area, the largest in Spain. Toulouse, France, a little over two hours away by car, is served by international airlines; Barcelona is about 3.5 hours.
此处房产占地面积1.8英亩（约合7284平方米），距离阿兰谷的主要市镇、人口4000人的维耶拉(Vielha)只有10分钟路程；距西班牙最大的滑雪场Baqueira/Beret有20分钟的路程。开车两个多小时，即可到达法国的图卢兹(Toulouse)乘坐国际航班；到巴塞罗那则大约需要3.5小时。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The Val d’Aran, which has 10,000 permanent residents, starts at the French border and meanders southward for 25 miles, terminating at the Baqueira/Beret ski area, which is frequented by the rich and famous of Spain, most notably the royal family. Residents of the valley speak Spanish, Catalan and Aranese. The ski area was built in the early 1960s, and development reached a critical mass in the 1970s and ’80s.
阿兰谷有10000名永久居民，山谷北起法国边境，蜿蜒25英里（约合40公里），南至Baqueira/Beret滑雪场。这处滑雪场时常聚集着西班牙的名流富豪，尤其是皇室成员。山谷里的居民讲西班牙语、加泰罗尼亚语和阿兰语(Aranese)。滑雪区始建于20世纪60年代初，开发活动于20世纪70至80年代达到了顶峰。
Agents note that construction in the valley is of very high quality, with new condominiums and chalets mimicking the Aranese style of thick wooden beams, heavy stone walls and slate roofs.
房地产经纪人们指出，山谷里的建设项目质量很高。新的共管公寓(condominium)和小木屋采用厚木梁、重石墙和板岩屋顶，效仿了传统的阿兰建筑风格。
The housing stock is a mixture of centuries-old restorable or renovated Aranese buildings, either in valley towns or free-standing; newer villas; and condominium developments. The very best chalets near the ski area sell for as much as $600 a square foot; apartments in town go as low as $200 a square foot.
阿兰谷的房源比较多样，包括可修缮或已翻新的百年老宅，有的位于山谷的市镇中，有的则前不着村、后不着店。也有比较新的别墅，以及共管公寓开发项目。那些靠近滑雪区且条件最好的小木屋，售价高达每平方英尺600美元（约合每平方米40557元）；而镇里公寓的售价则低至每平方英尺200美元（约合每平方米13519元）。
The collapse of Spain’s housing market hit the valley hard, agents said. Across the board, and indeed across Spain as a whole, prices are down 50 percent since 2007, returning to levels last seen in 2003, said Juan Carlos Leon Plana, the principal of Gestiaran, a local real estate agency.
房地产经纪人表示，西班牙房产市场的崩溃，给阿兰谷带来了很大冲击。当地房地产机构Gestiaran的负责人胡安·卡洛斯·莱昂·普拉纳(Juan Carlos Leon Plana)说，自2007年以来，当地的房价全线下降50%，回到了2003年的水平。当然，西班牙全国的情形也是一样。
But the crash in prices has opened a market that was once exclusive to the very rich, agents said.
不过，房地产经纪人们说，房价的暴跌，使原本只属于超级富豪的市场变开放了。
“What the crisis has done is to give the opportunity to buyers to acquire good houses,” said Carla Parallada of Lantana real estate in Barcelona. “Before the crisis, there was basically no quality supply available”;  new development “was 100 percent sold before starting construction, and many potential buyers did not even have a chance to buy.”
“这场危机，给置业者带来了一个购买好房的契机，”巴塞罗那的Lantana房地产公司的卡拉·帕雷亚达(Carla parallada)说，“危机以前，市场上基本没有什么优质的房源供应”；新的开发项目“在动工之前就已售罄，很多潜在买家根本没机会下手。”
The Spanish market may not yet have hit bottom, agents and market experts said, but at the very least, the rate of decline seems to be slowing.
经纪人和市场专家都表示，西班牙市场可能还没有触底，不过至少衰退的速度看起来将要放缓了。
“I think that we are coasting toward the bottom — the economy and the housing market,” said Mark Stücklin, a  real estate expert and consultant in Barcelona. “There’s been five years of declining prices, and the last two years have been double-digit declining prices and acute pain and distress.”  
“我认为经济和房产市场正在触底，”巴塞罗那的房地产专家和顾问马克·施特鲁克林(Mark Stücklin)说，“房价已经跌了五年，近两年的跌幅达到了两位数，造成巨大的阵痛和灾难。”
But he added that the rates of devaluation were easing. “In 2014, average price drops will get smaller and smaller, and I think we’ll bottom out in prices in 2015.”
不过他补充道，房产贬值的速度正在减缓。“2014年，房价的平均跌幅会越来越小。我觉得房价会在2015年触底。”
WHO BUYS IN THE PYRENEES
谁在比利牛斯山买房
In past years, nearly every buyer in Val d’Aran has been Spanish, but when sales withered in the property crash, agents began reaching out to international buyers. Mr. Kirwen says recent buyers in the valley have come from Britain and Canada. “The Val d’Aran is starting to get discovered outside of Spain,” he said.
过去多年来，几乎所有在阿兰谷买房的都是西班牙人，但是随着房市的崩溃和销售行情的惨淡，经纪人们开始向国际买家发起攻势。柯温表示，最近在阿兰谷置业的人来自英国和加拿大。“阿兰谷正逐渐被外国买家发掘。”他说。
Mr. Leon Plana of Gestiaran said the number of foreign buyers had doubled in the last two years, reaching around 10 percent; most are French, but there are some Americans, Britons and Russians.
Gestiaran的莱昂·普拉纳说，近两年来，外国买家的数量翻了一倍，达到10%左右；其中大多数为法国人，不过也有美国人、英国人和俄罗斯人。
BUYING BASICS
购房须知
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Spain, Mr. Stücklin said, though any foreigner who owns property or otherwise pays taxes in Spain is required to secure a foreign identity number. The buying process is fairly straightforward: a price is agreed upon, a contract of sale is signed by both parties, and, normally within about three months,  a notary witnesses the signing of deeds and ensures that all taxes and fees are paid.
施特鲁克林表示，西班牙对外国置业者没有限制，只不过凡是在西班牙有房产或要交税的外国人，都必须申请一个外国人身份证号码。购房手续很简单：首先商定房价，然后双方签合同，一般大约在三个月内，就会由公证人见证签约过程，确保所有税费得以缴纳。
Mortgages are available, Mr. Stücklin said; rates run 5 percent to 7 percent. But foreign buyers are generally expected to to put down at least 50 percent of the purchase price in cash.
施特鲁克林说，外国置业者可以申请按揭贷款，利率为5%到7%。不过外国置业者一般需要用现金支付至少50%的房款。
Buyers should budget as much as 15 percent above the property’s selling price for transaction costs, including stamp taxes and payments to notaries and lawyers, Mr. Kirwen and Mr. Stücklin said. Agents’ commissions, typically around 5 percent, are paid by the seller. Foreign owners can be subject to annual wealth and income taxes, Mr. Stücklin said.
柯温和施特鲁克林都说，置业者应该在成交价的基础上，预留15%的款项，以支付交易成本，包括印花税、公证费和律师费。经纪人一般抽取5%左右的佣金，这笔钱由卖家支付。施特鲁克林还说，外国房主可能每年需缴纳财富税和所得税。
A new “golden visa” program, similar to those in Cyprus, Greece, Latvia and Portugal, aims to entice wealthy foreigners to Spain by easing residency requirements for property purchases over 500,000 euros, or about $680,000.
为了吸引外国的富豪置业者，西班牙正在开展一个与塞浦路斯、希腊、拉脱维亚和葡萄牙类似的“黄金签证”(golden visa)项目。外国买家如果购置了价值50万欧元，或大约68万美元（约合人民币414万元）以上的房产，其居留条件就可被放宽。