THE immigrants trickling into the maple-paneled Brooklyn courtroom were a docile group. We had to be there by 8:30 in the morning to utter the oath of allegiance and thus become American citizens, and the collective mood was sleep deprivation mingled with palpable fear of making any kind of misstep.
一群移民正在缓缓走进布鲁克林这座有橡木板墙的法院，这是一群温顺的人。我们必须在早上8点30之前到达这里，发誓效忠美国，然后成为美国公民。我们给人的整体感觉是没睡醒，同时又明显在担心中间出现什么纰漏。
Dressed somewhere on the spectrum between business attire and Sunday best, most of us had also absorbed our summons letter’s instruction to wear clothing “proper” to “the dignity of this event.” It took about an hour for everyone to be seated, and I had a good view of what must be a frequent ritual. The clerk reviewing people’s documents told several that blue jeans weren’t allowed. “If you’re wearing blue jeans,” he raised his voice for everyone’s benefit, “go out and change.”
我们的着装介于商务装和周日盛装之间，大多数人都听从了自己收到的传票上的指示，穿着与“此事的庄重性质”相称的“得体”服装。大约一个小时后，每个人都已就坐，我也对一个肯定经常发生的环节有了第一手的了解。负责审核文件的工作人员告诉好几名来者，这种场合不允许穿蓝色牛仔裤。“如果你穿的是蓝色牛仔裤，”他提高声音，好让所有人都听到，“出去换一下。”
The call to “Go and change your pants” punctuated the proceedings. For all the amazing variety of individuals there, the wave of panic that swept over those who were told to change was more or less identical. At first I actually assumed there was a room down the hall where spare suit pants could be borrowed, because the instruction was so baffling. We were deep in a federal courthouse near the end of Cadman Plaza in Downtown Brooklyn — a stretch of faceless office blocks and parkland — early on a Friday. Who knew where to get their hands on the right kind of pants, at that hour, at an affordable price, and at a moment’s notice, so as not to miss their oath ceremony and possibly forfeit citizenship?
在这个过程中，“去换一下裤子”的要求不时冒出。对于在场的种类极为丰富的个体而言，因为被告知要去换裤子而引发的恐慌情绪或多或少是一样的。一开始，我真的以为可以到大厅那边的一个房间借备用的西裤，因为我们接到的指示信息非常令人困惑。那是一个周五的早上，我们身处布鲁克林闹市区卡德曼广场尽头附近的一座联邦法院大楼里——一片没什么特点的办公楼群和绿地。谁会知道在那个时间点，上哪可以很快买到自己买得起的合适裤子，好让自己不会错过宣誓的时间，不会因此出现失去公民身份的可能性？
Nothing in our summons letter had listed what we couldn’t wear, and I saw people pass unremarked in flip-flops, tight turquoise chinos and a half-translucent bodysuit patterned with stars and stripes that Cher might have enjoyed wearing to the Oscars. Black jeans, for some reason, were tolerated. The black leggings I wore also passed muster, though they’re not exactly a cornerstone of formal wear. All kinds of ethnic garb was fine, though I doubt the two presiding clerks were qualified to judge the spiffiness of each outfit in its own idiom.
我们收到的传票里没有明确列出不能穿什么衣服，我看见有人穿着人字拖，有人穿蓝绿色的紧身斜纹布裤，还有人穿印有星星和条纹图案的半透明紧身连裤衫——雪儿可能会喜欢穿着这样的衣服去参加奥斯卡颁奖礼——他们都没有被拦下。不知为何，黑色牛仔裤就可以被接受。我穿的黑色打底裤也过关了，尽管它们根本不算正装。各类民族服装也没有问题，不过我怀疑两位执事的工作人员是否有资格判断每套服装在各自服装体系里的漂亮入时程度。
And surely if any item of clothing constitutes the national costume of the North American animal, it’s jeans. I still remember getting my first pair. My family and I were refugees from Czechoslovakia; we became Canadian citizens when I was 9. I didn’t own a pair of jeans until I was 12 or so, partly because our family’s wardrobe budget wasn’t vast, and partly because my parents didn’t yet feel, in their slowly assimilating bones, that denim counted as high status rather than low.
如果说有什么称得上是北美服装的经典元素，那就是牛仔裤。我还记得自己穿过的第一条牛仔裤。我和家人是自来捷克斯洛伐克的难民；在我9岁的时候，我们获得了加拿大公民身份。直到12岁左右，我才有了自己的第一条牛仔裤，部分原因在于我家没有太多钱可以花在买衣服上，也有一部分原因是我父母被同化的速度比较慢，他们不觉得这种蓝粗布是高级的，反倒觉得它们比较低档。
THOSE jeans cemented my sense of belonging. They were basic and the opposite of cool, I knew, but it didn’t matter because they allowed me to blend in. I could finally leave the house in the equivalent of the school uniform. Anyhow, in the Brooklyn courtroom, each specimen of denim I saw dismissed was clean and all but pressed — what most people consider their “dressy jeans.”
那条牛仔裤让我有了一种归属感。我知道，它属于基本款服装，一点儿也不酷，但没关系，因为它让我融入了周围的环境。我终于可以穿着几乎相当于校服的牛仔裤走出家门了。无论如何，在布鲁克林的法庭上，我看到的每一条不被认可的牛仔裤都干净得体，就差经过熨烫了，大多数人都会认为它们属于“精致类牛仔裤”。
Once everyone was seated an officer in a silver suit dominated the room with wisecracks, processing our paperwork between jokes about lousy marriages. I wanted to enjoy the tone of this act and to find it perfectly irreverently American. But as he called people up to his table to confirm the details on their citizenship certificates, he continued to pick off blue-jean offenders, swapping the utilitarian “go and change your pants” for more creative mockery, much of which was lost on his victims, whose imperfect English at least spared them that humiliation. The crowd, sensing that ridicule would be the order of the day, became a nervously appreciative audience for each punch line.
等到大家就坐以后，整个房间便被一位身着银色西服的官员的俏皮话主宰了，他一边处理我们的文件，一边讲着与糟糕的婚姻有关的笑话。我想要享受这种行为所制造的氛围，并将其当成地地道道的美国式的不拘礼节。但当他把人们叫到自己桌前，确认公民证书上的细节时，又开始继续针对穿蓝色牛仔裤的“犯规者”，并把带有实用色彩的“去换掉裤子”变成了更具创意的嘲讽之辞，不过很多话他的嘲讽对象都没听懂，英语不太好至少可以让他们免于承受一部分羞辱。在场的人们意识到，冷嘲热讽将是当天的常规动作，于是提心掉胆地当起了热心听众，“欣赏”连珠的妙语。
One Russian man didn’t get the point and luckily a Russian stranger, who’d just rushed in from his own pants-finding mission (his button-up shirt now drenched in sweat), offered to translate. Still, perhaps because the idea of having to abandon one’s citizenship ceremony to go buy pants was so patently absurd (and eminently Soviet), the blue-jeaned Russian remained in his seat and in denial for 10 minutes more before the federal officer noticed, mocked him again, and sent him out the door.
有位俄罗斯人没听明白，幸运的是，一个与其并不相识的俄罗斯人正好结束了找裤子之旅，急匆匆地走了进来（他的正装衬衫现在全都被汗水浸透了），为前者做了翻译。不过，或许是由于为了买裤子而错过入籍仪式显然太过荒唐（而且带有极强的苏维埃色彩），身穿蓝色牛仔裤的俄罗斯人拒绝接受这一事实，又在自己的座位上坐了十多分钟，那位联邦官员注意到以后，又嘲笑了他一番，打发他出了门。
Toward the end of this process, a younger man came forward in a white button-up shirt, a dark blazer and trendily faded jeans. As he waited in line he caught the eye of a fellow immigrant and cracked a smile, clearly hoping to pass with his denim undetected. He did: The salaried-class shirt and blazer acted as decoys, and at the desk he held his papers low to hide his jeans. Later, a young woman in blue jeans tucked into boots was caught on her way back from the restroom, but her English and her attitude were strong: She declared, “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” and the matter was dropped.
在这一程序步入尾声之际，一位身穿白色正装衬衫、深色西装外套和时髦褪色牛仔裤的年轻男士走上前来。排队等候时，他引起了另一位移民的注意，随即微微一笑，显然是希望自己的牛仔裤可以蒙混过关。他做到了：以白领阶层风格的衬衫和西装外套吸引眼球，同时在桌前把文件拿得低低的，遮住牛仔裤。随后，一个将牛仔裤腿塞进靴筒的年轻女人在从洗手间回来的路上被逮了个正着，但她的英语及态度非常强悍：她声称，“我不知道你在说什么。”于是，事情便不了了之。
Asked afterward about this anti-jean attitude, a clerk at the courthouse denied it was an official policy. It was almost as if the whole procedure had been meaningless, a source of fun for bored employees, and a test to distinguish the real Americans — who had the wherewithal to resist their bullying — from the outsiders.
事后，当被问及这种反牛仔裤的态度时，该法庭的一位职员表示，这并不是官方政策。仿佛这一环节毫无意义，只不过是闲极无聊的联邦雇员找乐子的一个法子，是把真正的美国人——也就是有办法抵御他们的欺辱的人——和外来者区分开来的一场测试。