One of my family’s favorite shows is “The Biggest Loser.” Although some viewers don’t appreciate how it pushes people so hard to lose weight, the show probably inspires some overweight people to regain control of their lives.
我家人最喜欢的电视节目之一是《超级减肥王》(The Biggest Loser)。虽然一些观众不喜欢它如此大力地迫使人们辛苦减肥，但这个节目或许可以激励一些体重超标的人重新夺回生活的控制权。
But one of the most frustrating parts of the show, at least for me, is its overwhelming emphasis on exercise. Because when it comes to reaching a healthy weight, what you don’t eat is much, much more important.
但至少在我看来，该节目最令人失望的地方之一是对锻炼的过度强调。因为对于达到健康的体重而言，远远更为重要的因素是，哪些东西不该吃。
Think about it this way: If an overweight man is consuming 1,000 more calories than he is burning and wants to be in energy balance, he can do it by exercising. But exercise consumes far fewer calories than many people think. Thirty minutes of jogging or swimming laps might burn off 350 calories. Many people, fat or fit, can’t keep up a strenuous 30-minute exercise regimen, day in and day out. They might exercise a few times a week, if that.
不妨这样来想：如果一个超重者希望通过消耗额外1000卡路里的热量，来实现能量平衡，他可以通过锻炼做到这一点。然而运动消耗的热量比很多人认为的要少。30分钟的慢跑或游泳会消耗掉350个卡路里。不管身材是肥胖还是适中，很多人都难以坚持每天30分钟的繁重运动。如果那样做的话，他们可能每周会锻炼两三次。
Or they could achieve the same calorie reduction by eliminating two 16-ounce sodas each day.
但你也可以通过每天少喝16盎司的碳酸饮料，来减少同样多的热量。
Proclamations that people need to be more active are ubiquitous in the media. The importance of exercise for proper weight management is reinforced when people bemoan the loss of gym class in schools as a cause of the obesity epidemic. Michelle Obama’s Let’s Move program places the focus on exercise as a critical component in combating excess weight and obesity.
媒体上到处都是人们需要多运动的消息。当人们抱怨，学校减少体育课加剧了肥胖现象的时候，锻炼对于保持适当体重的重要性，得到了进一步的强调。米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)的“动起来” (Let’s Move)计划把重点放在锻炼上，将其视为解决超重和肥胖问题的一个关键要素。
Exercise has many benefits, but there are problems with relying on it to control weight. First, it’s just not true that Americans, in general, aren’t listening to calls for more activity. From 2001 to 2009, the percentage of people who were sufficiently physically active increased. But so did the percentage of Americans who were obese. The former did not prevent the latter.
锻炼有很多好处，但依靠锻炼来控制体重却存在一些问题。首先，美国人总体上确实听取了“多运动”的呼吁。从2001年到2009年，进行足够体育运动的人比例上升了。但美国肥胖人口的百分比也增加了。前者没有阻止后者的发生。
Studies confirm this finding. A 2011 meta-analysis, a study of studies, looked at the relationship between physical activity and fat mass in children, and found that being active is probably not the key determinant in whether a child is at an unhealthy weight. In the adult population, interventional studies have difficulty showing that a physically active person is less likely to gain excess weight than a sedentary person. Further, studies of energy balance, and there are many of them, show that total energy expenditure and physical activity levels in developing and industrialized countries are similar, making activity and exercise unlikely to be the cause of differing obesity rates.
研究也证实了这一发现。2011年进行过一项综合分析，也就是针对多项研究开展的研究，探讨了儿童体育运动和脂肪量之间的关系。分析发现，对于儿童体重是否处在不健康的水平，多做运动可能不是一个关键因素。在成人中，干预性研究也难以证实体育运动多的人，额外增重的可能性低于惯于久坐的人。此外，人们对能量平衡也做过很多研究，这些研究表明，在发展中国家和发达国家，总能量消耗和体育运动水平是差不多的，所以活动和锻炼不太可能是造成肥胖率差异的原因。
Moreover, exercise increases one’s appetite. After all, when you burn off calories being active, your body will often signal you to replace them. Research confirms this. A 2012 systematic review of studies that looked at how people complied with exercise programs showed that over time, people wound up burning less energy with exercise than predicted and also increasing their caloric intake.
此外，锻炼会增强人的食欲。毕竟，当你通过运动燃烧热量时，身体常会向你发出信号，让你补充它们。研究已经证实了这一点。2012年，研究人员系统性地汇总了关于人们如何履行运动计划的研究。探究发现，随着时间的推移，人们通过锻炼燃烧的能量最终会少于预期，而摄入的热量却增加了。
Other metabolic changes can negate the expected weight loss benefits of exercise over the long term. When you lose weight, metabolism often slows. Many people believe that exercise can counter or even reverse that trend. Research, however, shows that the resting metabolic rate in all dieters slows significantly, regardless of whether they exercise. This is why weight loss, which might seem easy when you start, becomes harder over time.
从长期来看，其他一些新陈代谢变化，也会抵消锻炼产生的减重效果。体重下降时，新陈代谢常常也会变慢。很多人以为，锻炼可以抵消甚至逆转这一趋势。然而，研究表明，不管是否锻炼，所有节食者的静息代谢率都会显著减缓。减肥一开始看似容易，但随着时间的推移却会越来越难，也正是因为如此。
This isn’t to say that exercise plays no role. There are many studies that show that adding exercise to diets can be beneficial. A 1999 review identified three key meta-analyses and other randomized controlled trials that found statistically significant, but overall small, increases in weight loss with exercise.
这并不是说锻炼没用。很多研究表明，锻炼和节食相结合应该是有益的。1999年的一项综述援引了三项关键的综合分析和其他一些随机对照试验。研究发现，锻炼对减重的促进作用从统计角度看颇为显著，但总体上仍然不大。
A meta-analysis published last year found that, in the long term, behavioral weight management programs that combine exercise with diet can lead to more sustained weight loss (three to four pounds) over a year than diet alone. Over a six-month period, though, adding exercise made no difference. Another systematic review from last fall found similar results, with diet plus exercise performing better than diet alone, but without much of an absolute difference.
去年发表的一项综合分析发现，从长期来看，相比单纯节食，节食与锻炼相结合的行为体重管理计划，可以在一年时间里让体重更持久地下降（三四磅）。但若以半年为期限，加上锻炼也没有区别。去年秋天的另一项综述得出了类似的结论，锻炼同节食相结合的效果比单纯节食要好，不过没有多少差异。
All of these interventions included dietary changes, and the added weight-loss benefit from activity was small. Far too many people, though, can manage to find an hour or more in their day to drive to the gym, exercise and then clean up afterward — but complain that there’s just no time to cook or prepare a healthful, home-cooked meal. If they would spend just half the time they do exercising trying to make a difference in the kitchen, they’d most likely see much better results.
所有这些干预都包括饮食上的改变，其中运动带来的额外减重效果很小。然而，有很多人会设法在一天里找出一个小时，甚至更长的时间开车去健身房锻炼，然后收拾，但却抱怨说完全没时间烹制或是准备一顿有益健康的家常便饭。如果花一半的锻炼时间用来尝试改变饮食，很可能就会看到好得多的结果。
Many people think of dieting as a drastic and rigid change, with a high risk of putting the pounds back on. What is more likely to succeed is gradual change, made in a much more sustainable way. I also don’t mean to make it seem that weight loss with diet is easy and exercise is hard. They’re both hard. The challenge of a slowing metabolism, and the desire to eat more, occurs in both cases, although dietary change still works better than exercise.
很多人认为节食是极端、死板的举措，有很大的反弹风险。更有可能成功的是，通过更持久的方式逐步调整。我也不想让人觉得节食减肥容易，锻炼很难。它们都不容易。新陈代谢降低的挑战和想吃更多东西的欲望都会出现，不过改变饮食的效果依然比锻炼好。
But I can’t say this enough: Exercise has a big upside for health beyond potential weight loss. Many studies and reviews detail how physical activity can improve outcomes in musculoskeletal disorders, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, pulmonary diseases, neurological diseases and depression. The Academy of Medical Royal Colleges declared it a “miracle cure” recently, and while I’m usually loath to use that term for anything in medicine, a fairly large evidence base corroborates that exercise improves outcomes in many domains.
但我不能说节食就够了：除了可能会产生减重效果外，锻炼对健康还有一个很大的好处。很多研究和综述详细介绍了运动有助于缓解肌肉骨骼疾病、心血管疾病、糖尿病、肺部疾病、神经性疾病和抑郁症的效果。前不久，皇家医学院研究院(Academy of Medical Royal Colleges)称其是“灵丹妙药”。尽管我通常不愿在医学领域使用这个词，但相当多的证据表明，锻炼在很多方面都会起到改善作用。
But that huge upside doesn’t seem to necessarily apply to weight loss. The data just don’t support it. Unfortunately, exercise seems to excite us much more than eating less does. After all, as a friend said to me recently, “The Biggest Loser” would be really boring if it were shot after shot of contestants just not overeating.
但这个巨大的好处看上去并不一定适用于减肥，根本没有相关的数据支撑。但遗憾的是，和少吃相比，锻炼似乎更能鼓舞我们参与。毕竟，就像一个朋友前不久和我说的那样，如果只是参赛者克制饮食的镜头，《超级减肥王》真的会无趣。