When does women’s work become real work?
女性的工作在什么时候会成为真正的工作？
When no woman shows up to do it.
当没有女人露面来做这项工作的时候。
It feels like a footnote to the tumult of Month 1 of the Trump presidency, a minor detail easily lost in the toxic stew of news about Russia, executive orders, legal appeals and grammatically challenged Twitter blitzes. But by now, most of America knows that Melania Trump has declared herself the First Lady Who Wouldn’t.
这件事感觉如同特朗普总统任期第一个月动荡风波的脚注、一个微小的细节，在俄罗斯新闻、行政命令、法律上诉、Twitter上语法不准的持续消息炖成的一锅毒粥中，它很容易遭到遗漏。但是现在，大多数美国人都知道了，梅拉尼娅·特朗普(Melania Trump)已经表明自己是个不要当第一夫人的第一夫人。
Instead of taking up the mantle of First Hostess and slipping into the role of a landlocked Julie the cruise director without complaint, Melania the Intermittent has chosen to mostly stay in New York City with her young son, at least through the end of the school year, emerging from her gilded penthouse for a White House dinner here or a sightseeing jaunt there.
她并没有接过第一女主人的衣钵，任劳任怨地直接进入岸上的邮轮总监朱莉的角色（七八十年代的电视剧《爱之船》[The Love Boat]里的一个角色——编著），穿梭两地的梅拉尼娅选择了大部分时间留在纽约与幼子待在一起，至少在学年结束之前会这样，虽然她不时也会从金碧辉煌的顶层公寓里出来，去参加白宫晚餐或者观光游览。
While a libel lawsuit suggests that Mrs. Trump had an eye on eventually monetizing her role as “one of the most photographed women in the world,” she has seemed uninterested in doing the work of the first lady. She waited until the end of January to name a social secretary and has yet to hire a full staff for her office. During his news conference Thursday, President Trump gave a progress report, explaining that his wife had “opened up the visitors center” and predicted that she would be a “fantastic” first lady, insofar as she was “always the highest quality that you’ll ever find.”
虽然一宗诽谤诉讼案的发生，表明特朗普夫人终于看到了该如何将作为“世界上被拍照最多的女人之一”这个角色转换成货币，但她似乎还是没有兴趣做第一夫人的工作。直到1月底她才任命了一名社交秘书，而且至今她的办公室团队还未完全建立起来。在上周四的新闻发布会上，特朗普总统发表了一份进展报告，说妻子“开放了游客中心”，并预测她会是一个“极其出彩”第一夫人，因为她“永远是你所能找到的最优秀的人”。
You don’t know what you’ve got until it’s gone. Now that Mr. Trump has turned 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue into a bachelor pad, it’s clear that we’ve been taking our first ladies for granted.
失去之后你才知道自己曾经拥有过什么。现在特朗普已经把宾夕法尼亚大道1600号变成了一个单身汉宿舍，很明显，我们之前把第一夫人的工作当成了理所当然的事情。
For decades, we’ve assumed that the wife of the man in the Oval Office would ditch whatever else she had going on — a law career, a lucrative job as a hospital administrator, a quiet life as a stay-at-home mom — to take on the gig. Since Martha Washington, the first lady has been the nation’s hostess; since Eleanor Roosevelt, she’s also championed a cause, usually related to women and children. She welcomes visiting dignitaries, entertains their spouses, hosts holiday parties and mom-dances with Jimmy Fallon, all with the public and the paparazzi ready to pounce on any wardrobe infelicities or bad hair days.
几十年来，我们一直假设，椭圆形办公室里那个男人的妻子会放弃自己在做的任何其他事情——法律事业、作为医院管理者的高薪职业、作为全职妈妈的安静生活——来承担这份工作。自从玛莎·华盛顿(Martha Washington)以来，第一夫人一直是这个国家招待宾客的女主人；自从埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)之后，第一夫人也会支持一项事业，通常与妇女和儿童有关。她欢迎来访的贵宾，款待他们的配偶，举办假日聚会，与吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)一起演绎妈妈舞蹈，与此同时公众和狗仔队都已经好了准备，随时可以批评她们在着装或者发型上的瑕疵。
It’s a job few would sign up for. Yet we’ve expected our first ladies to do it all, without benefit of a paycheck, or even a budget for clothing: While the first lady’s office has a budget, her role is considered an “office of honor,” which is fancy for “you’ll get nothing and like it.”
这是一份很少有人会申请的工作。然而，我们期望第一夫人做这一切事情，而且不拿工资，甚至没有服装预算：虽然第一夫人办公室有预算，但她的角色被认为是一种“荣誉工作”，好像是说“你没有什么赚头，但你喜欢它”。
Michelle Obama made it look not just glamorous but effortless, and if she was ever peeved that her work went uncompensated, she never complained.
米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)让这个工作看起来不仅很光彩迷人，而且轻松自如，即便她对这份工作没有报酬感到气恼，也从来没有公开抱怨过。
Now Mrs. Trump’s absence raises an interesting question — if this is labor, shouldn’t we be paying for it? It also exposes the problem feminism has always had with housework, in the White House or elsewhere.
现在特朗普夫人的缺席提出了一个有趣的问题——如果这是一种劳动，我们不应该为它付钱吗？这也暴露出女权主义与家务活的一贯冲突，不管是在白宫还是在其他地方。
In the 1960s and ’70s, second-wave feminists sought to get women into the workplace. Many insisted that housework was mindless drudgery and that fulfillment could be found only outside of the home. In 1970, Gloria Steinem said that “housewives are dependent creatures who are still children”; Betty Friedan said, “No woman gets an orgasm from shining the kitchen floor.”
在20世纪60和70年代，第二波女权主义者试图让女性进入职场。很多人坚称，家务是不动脑的苦差事，她们的成就感只能在家庭之外才能找到。1970年，格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)说“家庭主妇是依赖者，她们仍然是孩子”；贝蒂·弗里丹(Betty Friedan)说，“没有女人会在擦厨房地板时获得高潮。”
And so, instead of on-site day care, flexible schedules, parental leave for men and women and a path to the top that did not punish parents for spending time at home, feminists made their priority the rights of women to get the same education, work the same long hours, earn the same wages and make the same difficult choices between work and family as men.
因此，女性主义者没有把公司提供日托、灵活的日程安排、男性和女性育儿假，以及不需要父母牺牲在家中的时间就能通往顶峰的路径当作重点，而是把女性获得相同的教育、工作相同的时间、赚取同样的工资、像男人那样在工作和家庭之间做出艰难选择作为了优先事项。
Some women assimilated, donning shoulder pads and faux-ties, becoming, as Ms. Steinem memorably put it, the men they were once supposed to marry, earning law and medical degrees, becoming corporate executives and Fox News contributors.
一些女性接受了这种观点，她们戴上肩垫和假领带，就像斯泰纳姆那令人难忘的说法，她们变成了她们应该会嫁的那种男人，获得了法律和医学学位，成为企业高管和福克斯新闻的撰稿者。
But housework is famously intransigent. When Mom and Dad both work, someone still has to buy the groceries and schedule the doctor visits.
但家务仍然是个挥之不去的问题。当妈妈和爸爸都在工作时，仍然需要有人购买生鲜杂货和安排看医生的日程。
Sometimes, in middle-class and upper-middle-class homes, that someone is a nanny or a housekeeper, a woman — frequently a minority woman — who tends to the house and the children so that both parents can hold paying jobs. Because our culture has devalued domestic work, caring for houses and children remains low-paying and unregulated.
有时，在中产阶级和中上阶层家庭里，那个人是保姆或管家，是一名女性——往往是少数族裔——她们照顾料理家务、照顾孩子，这样孩子的父母就都能保住自己的带薪工作。因为我们的文化贬低家务活的价值，料理家务和照顾孩子依然报酬不高，而且没有监管。
In 2012, the National Domestic Workers Alliance found that 23 percent of workers were paid below their state’s minimum wage. Fewer than 9 percent of families in the study paid the Social Security tax on their domestic help’s salary.
2012年，美国家庭佣人联盟(National Domestic Workers Alliance)发现23%的佣人的薪水低于他们所在州的最低工资。研究还发现，只有不到9%的家庭为其佣人的工资缴纳社会保障税。
Not all working women have made their gains on the backs of an underpaid maid or nanny. Some women never worked outside the house, either because they didn’t want to or because it didn’t make sense financially. Others resigned themselves to putting in the so-called second shift after getting home from the office.
不是所有的职业女性能得益于低工资的女佣或保姆。一些女性从没在外工作过，要么是因为她们不想，要么是因为从财务上没有必要。其他人从单位回到家后，则无奈地投入所谓的下一个班。
The White House is different — it’s not as if Mrs. Trump will be picking up stray Legos, begging, “Can I please just have five minutes to myself?” while her husband asks if she’s gotten the dry cleaning. But being first lady is, essentially, being the White Housewife, taking on all of the White Housework, which includes so much travel and public speaking that Ronald Reagan once joked that with his wife, Nancy, “the government gets an employee free; they have her just about as busy as they have me.”
白宫可不一样——情况并不是特朗普夫人一边捡起散落的乐高玩具，一边祈求说，“能让我消停5分钟吗？”尽管她丈夫也会问她是不是把衣服送去干洗了。但作为第一夫人，本质上是白宫主妇，要负担所有的白宫家务，这包括如此多旅行和公开演讲，乃至罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)曾与妻子南希(Nancy)开玩笑说，“政府获得了一名免费员工；他们让她几乎跟我一样忙。”
Now that our first lady has just said no, desperate times call for desperate measures. If we want our White House to continue to function as the people’s house, if we want that Christmas tree lit and those Easter eggs rolled, it’s time to pony up.
既然我们的第一夫人已经说了不，非常时期就得采取非常手段。如果我们想让白宫继续发挥人民之家的功能，如果我们想让那棵圣诞树亮起来，让复活节彩蛋滚起来，那就是时候付钱了。
“Free Melania”? If she’s willing to do the work, let’s pay her instead.
“解放梅拉尼娅？”如果她愿意这做这份工作，我们还是付钱给她吧。