There’s no magic formula for getting into a selective college, but over a decade covering admissions for The Chronicle of Higher Education, I’ve picked up a thing or two. These takeaways, based on hundreds of interviews with admissions deans over the years, may help you navigate the process.
没有一个神奇的公式可以让你进入择优录取学生的高校，但在为《高等教育纪事报》(The Chronicle of Higher Education)报道招生情况的十年里，我选出了一些有用的信息。这些观察是根据这些年对招生办主任进行的数百次采访得来的，可能有助于你顺利通过申请这一步。
Admissions decisions aren’t all about you.
录取决定不全和你有关。
When colleges choose applicants, they’re juggling competing goals, like increasing diversity and bringing in more revenue. Admissions officers aren’t looking for students who fit just one description — say, those who’ve earned all A’s or won the most awards. So don’t take rejection personally.
挑选申请人时，高校要兼顾相互矛盾的目标，比如提高多元化和增加收入。招生人员要找的，不是只符合一种描述的学生，比如各科成绩都是A或获奖最多。因此，不要认为被拒是你个人的原因。
Grades and test scores still carry the most weight.
成绩和分数依然是最重要的。
Colleges often say they want to get to know the real you, but that’s probably true only if your academic accomplishments (and the rigor of courses you’ve taken) pass muster.
学校往往说它们希望了解真实的你，但只有当你的学习成绩（和你所上课的严格程度）通过了，这才可能是实话。
You’re more than a number.
你不仅仅是一个数字。
After colleges identify a big batch of students with outstanding credentials, differences among them become more important, admissions deans say. Among some of the attributes they tell me they would like to see evidence of (in essays, extracurricular activities, recommendations) are: leadership, risk taking, emotional intelligence, fire for learning, critical thinking, curiosity, empathy, optimism, grit, perseverance and the ability to overcome obstacles.
招生办主任说，在学校找出一大批条件优秀的学生后，他们之间的差异变得更加重要。他们告诉我他们希望（通过文章、课外活动、推荐信）看到证据的一些品质是：领导力、敢于冒险、情商、学习热情、批判性思维、好奇心、同理心、乐观、毅力、坚持和克服障碍的能力。
Express your authentic self.
表现真实的自己。
Overwhelmed by slick, boastful essays, colleges are eager for what they call “authentic” glimpses of applicants — their experiences, passions and goals. Some deans believe they’ll get deeper insight through alternative formats like videos, pictures, audio files or documents (an Advanced Placement English paper, maybe). A handful of prestigious schools, including Yale, the University of Chicago, Pomona College, Reed College and the University of Rochester, recently introduced this option. As with essays, too much polish is no good, deans say, so you might think twice about hiring a professional videographer. At Yale, about 400 applicants (out of nearly 33,000) for this year’s freshman class sent in something in an alternative format. In at least one case, the submission — a video showing leadership and impact on others — was, the dean told me, a “difference maker.”
在华丽、自夸的文章如潮水般涌来时，大学渴望对申请人有它们所说的“真实”的了解，比如他们的经历、爱好和目标。一些招生办主任认为，通过其他形式，如视频、照片、音频文件或文件证书（可能是大学预修课程英语[Advanced Placement English]证书），他们会获得更深入的了解。一些名校，包括耶鲁(Yale)、芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)、波莫纳学院(Pomona College)、里德学院(Reed College)和罗切斯特大学(University of Rochester)，最近都推出了这个选项。招生办主任说，在文章上，太多修饰润色没用，因此你可以考虑请一个专业的摄像师。在耶鲁，申请今年入学的学生中大约400人（总申请人数近3.3万）提交了其他形式的材料。招生办主任告诉我，至少一人提交的材料——一段表现领导力和对他人影响的视频——“起了作用”。
Diversity counts.
多元化有价值。
Are you a first-generation or low-income student? Many colleges are trying to increase access, so it can help to emphasize your background — and how your personal story relates to your achievements — in essays and interviews. Admissions officers are thinking harder about socioeconomic context, such as the quality of an applicant’s high school, to better understand the opportunities they’ve had and the challenges they’ve faced.
你是家里的第一个大学生或来自低收入家庭吗？很多高校都试图增加这类学生，因此在文章和面试中强调你的背景——以及你个人的故事与你成绩之间的关系——可能有用。招生人员正在加强对社会经济背景，比如对申请人高中质量的考量，以便更好地了解他们获得的机会和面临的挑战。
But money does matter.
但钱的确很重要。
At many colleges, financial circumstances comes into play. Being able to pay all or some of the freight is a bonus. And some qualified students of limited means might get rejected for no reason other than lack of money.
在很多学校，经济条件都是影响录取的因素之一。能够支付全部或部分费用是加分项。一些资格符合但经济拮据的学生被拒可能只是因为财力不足。
Geography is (partly) destiny.
地理（在一定程度上）决定命运。
Many selective colleges want students from all over, ideally from all 50 states. Last year’s presidential election illuminated the urban-rural divide, which some colleges have been trying to bridge by paying closer attention to promising applicants from less-populous areas. Generally, a Northeastern college will look more favorably on an applicant from Montana than an equally strong one from the Northeast.
很多择优录取的学校希望招到来自全国各地的学生，最好是50个州的都有。去年的大选凸显了城乡差距。一些高校一直试图通过给予来自人口不那么稠密的地区的优秀申请者更多关注，来弥合这种差距。总的来说，在同等条件下，一所位于东北部的大学会更看好来自蒙大拿州，而非东北本地的申请人。
Legacies aren’t a shoo-in.
二代身份无法让你稳操胜券。
Legacy status certainly helps, but big-name colleges reject plenty of these applicants. Don’t assume Mom or Dad’s connections alone will get you in.
二代身份的确有用，但大牌学校拒绝了很多这样的申请人。不要以为只靠父母的关系就能让你进去。
Do (real) good.
（真的）行善。
A new initiative called “Turning the Tide” urges admissions offices to reward applicants for sustained community service. And some colleges, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, are taking a closer look at what applicants have done to help others, be they neighbors or family members. You don’t have to fly to Belize to do good (admissions officers are often skeptical of these fleeting trips). Showing up to tutor someone at the library each week might be even more impressive, and rewarding.
一个名为“扭转局势”(Turning the Tide)的新计划呼吁招生人员奖励有持续的社区服务经历的申请人。一些学校，比如麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)，正在加强对申请人为帮助他人，无论是邻居还是家人做了什么的关注。你不用飞去伯利兹做慈善（招生人员对这些短暂的出行往往持怀疑态度）。每周都去图书馆当辅导老师可能更令人印象深刻、更有用。
Colleges want to be your first choice.
学校希望是你的首选。
About one in five colleges allot “considerable importance” to “demonstrated interest,” whereby applicants convey their willingness to attend the college they’re applying to. Open those emails. Connect with admissions officers. Let them know when you visit campus. Only those who are sure about their first choice and don’t need to compare financial aid packages should choose the strongest expression of demonstrated interest: applying early decision, which is binding.
大约五分之一的学校认为，“表现出来的兴趣相当重要”。申请人可凭此表达他们入读所申请学校的意愿。打开这些邮件；和招生人员联系；参观学校时告诉他们。只有那些对第一志愿信心十足，并且不用比较奖学金的人，能选择最有力的表现自己兴趣的方式：有约束力的提前录取。