AMATRICE, Italy — A soft white dust continued to fall lightly, hours after a 6.2-magnitude earthquake shook this small mountain town, as stunned residents — some with tear-streaked cheeks, others still wearing pajamas — wandered through the streets on Wednesday.
意大利阿马特里切——周三，一场6.2级地震袭击这个山区小镇数小时后，细小的白色粉尘仍在轻轻飘落，惊惶失措的居民在街道上徘徊，一些人脸颊上挂着泪痕，还有一些人还穿着睡衣。
Still shocked, many seemed unsure what to do. A father, holding a small child, pushed a wobbly stroller piled with plastic bags of clothing over a rocky path. A young girl sobbed into her mobile phone.
许多人还没缓过神来，似乎不知道该做些什么。一位父亲牵着一个小孩，推着一辆摇摇晃晃的童车，在遍地瓦砾的小路上走着，车里堆满了装有衣物的塑料袋。一个年轻的女孩一边用手机打电话一边啜泣。
“It’s all gone, the bar, the house, everything,” she said.
“都没了，酒吧，房子，所有的一切，”她说。
Ambulances raced back and forth on windy roads clogged with traffic and rubble as rescue teams searched for survivors. Using picks, shovels and even their hands, they scrabbled through the dust and debris of crumbled homes. They brought in dogs to sniff for the dead and injured beneath mounds of collapsed concrete and stone.
来来往往的救护车在风中疾驶着，路上满是车辆和碎石，救援队正在搜救幸存者。他们用锹镐甚至是自己的双手，在房屋废墟的灰土和瓦砾间搜寻着。他们通过搜救犬的嗅探找出坍塌的水泥和石头建筑底下的尸体和伤者。
Anxious friends and relatives waited for news of neighbors and loved ones. The current death toll of at least 159 could rise, with scores of people still missing in the small hilltop towns and villages like this one, among the most badly hit, about 100 miles northeast of Rome.
焦急的朋友和亲属们等待着邻居和亲人的消息。地震至少造成159人丧生。这个位于罗马东北方向100英里处的小镇是受灾最严重的地方之一，鉴于类似的山顶小镇和村庄里尚有许多人失踪，当前的死亡人数还有可能上升。
Among those waiting was Laura Besanzoni, who stood behind a ribbon that cordoned off the main street, the Corso Umberto. A few palazzos still stood along the street, but piles of rubble lined both sides, offering glimpses of bright blue sky.
镇上的主街“瓮贝托街”被封锁了，站在警戒线后的劳拉·贝桑佐尼(Laura Besanzoni)是等消息的人之一。少数几栋宅子仍然伫立在街边，但街道两侧满是废墟，透过它们可以到蔚蓝的天空。
“It’s like being in one of those countries at war,” she said sadly, looking at the devastation around her. Her family’s palazzo was standing, she said, but she had no news of an aunt and two cousins.
“就好像在那种正打仗的国家，”她看着大片废墟悲伤地说道。她说自家的宅子没倒，但一个阿姨以及两个表亲没了消息。
“We don’t know if they are dead or alive,” she said. Attempts to call them in the early morning hours, after a strong quake struck a wide portion of central Italy, had so far been unsuccessful. “And yet our home is one of the few to have stayed up.”
“我们不知道他们是死是活，”她说。凌晨时分，一场强地震袭击意大利中部大片地区之后，她试图给他们打电话，但电话迄今为止尚未接通。“不过我们家的房子是少数几栋还没倒塌的之一。”
Soon after the quake, Mayor Sergio Pirozzi of Amatrice told reporters that “half the town no longer exists.” He may have been too optimistic. Amatrice appeared the ghost of a town by midday.
地震发生后不久， 阿马特里切镇镇长塞尔希奥·皮洛季(Sergio Pirozzi)告诉记者，“半座城镇已不复存在。”他也许过于乐观了。截至中午，阿马特里切仿佛是一座鬼城。
Makeshift human corridors were created to bring people out. Some were alive, others were not. As one lifeless body passed, mostly wrapped in a plastic cover, one woman wailed: “That looks like Manuela’s hand.”
为了转移人员，人们建起了临时通道。其中一些人活着离开了这里，还有一些人则没有。当一具大半个身子裹在塑料布里的尸体经过时，一个女人哭着说：“那看起来像曼努埃拉(Manuela)的手。”
A three-story convent on the edge of town was virtually destroyed by the quake, the top two floors crushing the bottom. A young nun managed to get out of the convent, but she said she thought three nuns and four retirees had been buried in the quake. All that remained of one house just off a small square was the facade; the rooms behind had been squashed.
城镇边缘一座三层的修道院基本被地震摧毁了。顶上的两层把底楼压成了碎片。一个年轻的修女设法从修道院里逃了出来，但她说她认为三名修女和四名退休老人被埋在了里面。一个小广场附近的一栋房子只剩下了外立面；后边的房间已被夷为平地。
“We’re all doing what we can,” said Don Fabio Gammarrota, a parish priest from nearby Cittareale who arrived in Amatrice to assist with the rescue efforts soon after the quake. He said many people were looking for comfort. “There are mothers and fathers who have lost children,” he said.
“我们全都做着力所能及的事情，”来自附近城镇奇塔雷亚莱的教区教士唐·法比奥·加马罗塔(Don Fabio Gammarrota)说。地震发生后不久，加马罗塔就赶到了阿马特里切，帮助开展救援工作。他说许多人都在寻求安慰。“一些母亲和父亲失去了孩子，”他说。
He said he had seen at least 10 bodies extracted from the rubble. He was concerned that there were many more to come.
他说他至少看到10具尸体被人从瓦砾中拽出来。他担心还会有更多尸体出现。
Several people said the town had been full of tourists who had come for the weekend’s annual Sagra dell’Amatriciana festival that celebrates the pasta sauce for which the town is known.
一些人表示，镇上有许多为周末的阿马特里切节(Sagra dell’Amatriciana)而来的游客。这个一年一度的节日主题是本镇特产的面酱。
“It was the 50th this year; it was going to be a special weekend,” said Ilde, a high school teacher from Rome who vacations here every August. She declined to give her last name.
“今年是第五十届；我们本将迎来一个特别的周末，”每年8月都在这里度假的罗马高中教师伊尔代(Ilde)说。她拒绝透露自己的姓氏。
Ilde’s home on the central Corso Umberto was “severely damaged but not devastated,” she said. But when she was awaked by a loud bang at 3:36 a.m. and looked out the window, she saw nothing but rubble, she said.
伊尔代说她位于翁贝托街中段的住处“严重受损，但并未被摧毁”。但她说，当她在凌晨3点36分被巨大的响声惊醒，望向窗外的时候，除了瓦砾什么也没看到。
The buildings across the street from her and next door were destroyed. “Only the town tower was standing,” she said, describing scenes of panic, her neighbors screaming for help in the dark.
她家和隔壁家对面的建筑都被摧毁了。“只有镇上的高塔还耸立着，”伊尔代说。她还描绘了邻居们在黑暗中尖声呼救的恐怖场景。
“It was Dante’s ‘Inferno,’ it was apocalyptic, I don’t know,” she said.
“这是但丁的《炼狱》，是世界末日，我说不好，”她说。
When rescuers came to escort her from her home, she said, she walked on rubble at least 10 to 13 feet high. “It felt like a mountain,” she said.
当救援人员前来护送她离开房子的时候，她说，她走在至少有10至13英尺高的瓦砾堆上。“像山一样，”她说。
Large cracks and fallen plaster pockmarked Amatrice’s hospital, which was evacuated early on Wednesday. Patients in critical condition were taken to neighboring hospitals, while doctors tended to those with minor wounds in the parking lot outside.
阿马特里切的医院周三早上已被腾空，到处是巨大的裂缝和掉落的泥灰。危重病人被送往附近的医院，医生们则在院外的停车场上照顾轻伤者。
Amatrice’s residents — those who had not already left — gathered on grassy lawns or in courtyards. Passers-by inquired of loved ones. “Is Francesca all right?” “Is your mom?”
阿马特里切的居民——尚未离开的那些——聚集在草坪上或庭院里。过路人会询问他们的亲人的情况。“弗朗西丝卡(Francesca)还好吧？”“你妈妈呢？”
In one square, family of locals waited for news while diggers began tackling a pile of bricks and stones that had once been a home. One man had lost his father. Another an uncle.
在一个广场上，当地的一家人在等待着消息，他们的家已被夷为平地，挖掘机正在作业。一个男人失去了父亲，另一个失去了叔叔。
“I can’t think of how many may still be in the rubble,” said one woman whose house resisted the quake while the neighboring ones did not. Amatrice is in an area prone to earthquakes, “but we’ve never felt anything as violent as this,” she added.
“我无法想象还有多少人仍然被埋在瓦砾堆里，”一个女人说。她家的房子没被地震震倒，她家附近的房屋则不然。她还说，阿马特里切地区很容易发生地震，“但我们从未遇到过如此强烈的地震”。
Like many of the residents struggling to understand the calamity she had just experienced, she declined to give her name. “Just make something up,” she said.
和许多在灾难中还没有回过神来的居民一样，她拒绝透露姓名。“你就随便编一个吧，”她说。