ROME — Italy plunged into political and economic uncertainty early Monday after voters rejected a constitutional reform upon which Prime Minister Matteo Renzi had staked his government. The result is certain to reverberate across a European Union already buffeted by political upheaval and anti-establishment anger.
罗马——为了改革宪法，意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)赌上了自己领导的政府。周一早晨，在选民否决了该议案后，意大利陷入政治和经济不确定的局势。这个结果势必会对本已遭受政治动荡和反建制愤怒情绪打击的欧盟各国产生严重影响。
“The ‘no’ won in an incredibly clear way,” Mr. Renzi said, congratulating the winners from the Chigi Palace. Holding back tears as he spoke in front of Italian and European Union flags, the usually brash and confident 41-year-old said, “I assume all the responsibility of the defeat,” adding that he would go tomorrow to the country’s president, Sergio Mattarella, and “tender my resignation.”
“‘反对’派明显赢了，这令人难以置信，”伦齐在基吉宫向获胜者表示祝贺时说。在意大利国旗和欧盟旗帜面前，通常都显得盛气凌人、非常自信的这位41岁的总理忍住泪水说，“我承担这次失败的全部责任”，并接着表示他将于明天前去面见意大利总统塞尔焦·马塔雷拉(Sergio Mattarella)，“递交辞呈”。
Ostensibly the vote was about arcane changes to Italy’s Constitution that would have streamlined government. But opposition to the reforms came from the same anti-establishment sentiment — spiked with skepticism of globalization, open borders and the feasibility of an ever-closer European Union — that has transformed the politics of a growing list of European countries.
表面上，这场投票是关于对意大利的宪法进行一些晦涩难解的改革。这些改革会提高政府的效率。但反建制情绪——连同对全球化、开放边界和欧盟更紧密地结合在一起的可能性的怀疑——引发了对改革的反对。正是这种反建制情绪让越来越多的欧洲国家的政局发生了巨大的改变。
Such movements have already smashed the traditional political structures in Greece and Spain, and Euroskeptic forces led Britain to vote in June to leave the European Union.
在希腊和西班牙，这类运动已经打破了传统政治结构。今年6月，对欧洲持怀疑态度的力量引领英国投票决定退出欧盟。
In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel, once untouchable, now seems vulnerable in next year’s elections. And far-right parties are also seeking power in France.
在德国，一度高枕无忧的总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)现在似乎也可能在明年的选举中遇到麻烦。在法国，极右翼政党正在争取权力。
In Austria, the Green Party stalled the advance of populist forces on Sunday by defeating the presidential candidate of the far-right Freedom Party, which was established by former Nazis. The result in Austria might have calmed some nerves, but it was the rejection of Renzi that most sent shivers through Europe and the world.
在奥地利，绿党(Green Party)周日打败了由前纳粹建立的极右翼政党自由党(Freedom Party)的总统候选人，拦停了民粹主义力量的发展。奥地利的结果可能缓解了一些人的紧张情绪，但最让欧洲和全世界颤栗的是伦齐被否决一事。
In a strategic blunder that echoed David Cameron’s call for a “Brexit” referendum, Renzi had tied his government’s tenure to Sunday’s vote when he was flying high in the polls.
伦齐在民调支持率高企之时将自己政府的任期和周日的投票绑定在了一起。这是重大的战略错误，和戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)要求就“英国退出欧盟”举行公投类似。
But his support eroded, and world leaders anxiously watched the vote in Italy, the fourth-largest economy in Europe and a key player in the European Union, as a referendum on Renzi’s centrist government and as a barometer on the strength of anti-establishment winds blowing across both sides of the Atlantic.
随着他的支持率走低，世界领导人焦虑地注视着欧洲第四大经济体、欧盟关键成员意大利的投票，把它当作是对伦齐领导的中间派政府进行的公投，和对大西洋两岸刮起的反建制之风的力度反映。
Financial analysts have warned that instability caused by Renzi’s premature departure could result in a renewed and possibly contagious financial crisis in Italy, where banks are saddled with bad loans, and where desperately needed investors are turned off by the return of Italian instability.
金融分析人士警告称，伦齐提前下台造成的不稳定可能会导致意大利陷入一场新的、并且可能会蔓延的金融危机。在意大利，银行本就面临着不良贷款的负担，意大利重回不稳定局势的现实，浇灭了该国迫切需要的投资者的兴趣。