Azucena makes some of the most strikingly elegant furniture in the world, yet this secret of the Milanese haute bourgeoisie has remained under the radar for decades — until now.
Azucena出品的家具设计雅致，举世无双，但这家意大利时尚家居品牌的神秘面纱一直让人捉摸不透——直到现在依然如此。
One of the perennial surprises of the design world is the fact that Azucena, the Italian furniture company founded in 1947 by the architects Luigi Caccia Dominioni and Ignazio Gardella, and the designer Corrado Corradi dell’Acqua, is not better known. Its sleek but sensual (and still Italian-made) sofas, tables, lamps and other objects, many of which were designed in the 1950s and ’60s, and still feel forward-looking, can be found in some of the best houses in Italy. Over the years, Azucena’s products have inspired designers, from the minimalist Andrée Putman to the maximalist Alberto Pinto. These classically modern designs are beginning to attract a new generation of admirers, including the British designer Ilse Crawford and the Milan designers Britt Moran and Emiliano Salci of Dimore Studio. Moran and Salci have used its products in their own apartments as well in projects like the Caffè Burlot for Thierry Costes in Paris — so it’s fitting that they were asked to design the company’s elegant new showroom, which opened earlier this year in the heart of Milan’s stylish shopping district.
Azucena的知名度并不如人们想象得高，这一点始终让设计界人士颇感意外。Azucena是意大利家具品牌，创立于1947年。创始人是两位建筑师：路易吉·卡恰·多米尼奥尼(Luigi Caccia Dominioni)和伊尼亚齐奥·加尔代拉(Ignazio Gardella)，以及设计师科拉多·科拉迪·德拉科瓦(Corrado Corradi dell’Acqua)。Azucena出品的沙发、桌子、电灯等家具样式规整，却给人以完美的感官享受（且保持了意大利制造的品质），其中许多家具虽是20世纪50至60年代设计出来的产品，但其款式放在今天，依然显得时尚前卫。你可以在意大利最好的住宅中看到它们。多年来，Azucena的产品激发了一代又一代设计师的灵感，从极简主义者安德莉·普特曼(Andrée Putman)，到极繁主义者阿尔贝托·平托(Alberto Pinto)无不如此。如今，Azucena经典而又现代的设计风格，正开始吸引新一代的追随者，包括英国设计师伊尔莎·克劳福德(Ilse Crawford)；米兰设计师、Dimore Studio公司的布里特·莫兰(Britt Moran)和埃米利亚诺·萨尔奇(Emiliano Salci)。莫兰和萨尔奇不仅为自家公寓置办Azucena家具，还在他们的项目中采用了Azucena的产品。其中一个项目，就是为蒂埃里·科斯特(Thierry Costes)在巴黎设计一家餐厅——比尔洛咖啡馆(Caffè Burlot)。于是，当Azucena公司需要设计新的陈列室时，自然而然就找到了莫兰和萨尔奇。新陈列室于今年初正式开放，地处米兰时尚购物区的中心地带。
Marta Sala and her sister, Anna, who run the company (their great-uncle is Caccia Dominioni), felt that the old showroom — in a spare, off-the-beaten-path space — didn’t fit the company’s image. The new space has high, beamed ceilings and parquet floors that provide a more suitable backdrop for Azucena’s sumptuous pieces. And Dimore Studio, which is known for effortlessly bridging old and new, gave the interior a contemporary spin.
Azucena公司目前的运营者是玛塔·萨拉(Marta Sala)和她的妹妹安娜（她们的叔公正是卡恰·多米尼奥尼）。她们认为旧的陈列室较为简陋、位置偏僻，不符合公司形象。而新陈列室采用带横梁的高天花板和橡木地板，与Azucena的奢华家具更加相映成趣。Dimore Studio公司一向善于将复古与新潮元素完美融合，也将Azucena新陈列室的室内装潢设计得颇具现代感。
“We thought it would be nice to create a neutral space without using white walls,” Moran explained. He and Salci painted it gray and modulated the space with lacquered panels in gray and bordeaux — signature Azucena colors — that hang from a brass grid suspended from the ceiling. The designers accented these tones with upholstery fabrics in pinks and blues, and used various Azucena lights in compositions on the walls. In keeping with the meticulous details for which Azucena is known, a brass baseboard molding draws a precise but luxurious line around the space.
“我们认为，营造一个色调中性、没有白墙的空间，效果会很好，”莫兰解释道。他和萨尔奇将墙壁漆成灰色，同时采用灰色和波尔多葡萄酒色的漆面板来调和室内的光影——灰色和波尔多葡萄酒色，恰恰是Azucena的标志性颜色，漆面板挂在天花板悬垂下来的黄铜格栅上。设计师还采用了粉色和蓝色的装饰面料来增强光影氛围，同时在墙面打上多种Azucena色调的灯光。为了凸显Azucena一贯的严谨作风，他们还在护墙板上采用黄铜装饰线，环绕整间陈列室，线条精准而奢华。
Finally the furniture has a fitting home.
至此，Azucena家具终于找到了适合它们的新家。