Thanksgiving Day is almost upon us, and I haven’t yet summoned the nerve to tell Uncle Mario and Aunt Carolyn, who host it, that I may not arrive until a quarter past noon. That’ll make me more than an hour late, which by my rough arithmetic translates into 12 chilled shrimp, 15 mozzarella balls, four meatballs, a medium-size plate of stuffed mushrooms and a sizable wedge of frittata.
感恩节近在眼前，我却还没鼓起足够的勇气来告诉主持大餐的马里奥叔叔和卡罗琳婶婶，我可能要12点15才能到。这意味着，我将迟到一个多小时，粗略算算，等于要错过12只冻虾、15个乳酪丸、四个肉丸、一盘中等分量的焗酿蘑菇，以及一大块烘蛋。
That’s an unthinkable magnitude of forgiveness to ask for.
实在难以想象，欠下的天大人情要怎么请求他们的原谅。
The Bruni family has a schedule, you see. A pace. It’s like a forced march, only a catered one, with prosciutto. We get going at 11 a.m. because we have no other choice if we’re to cram in all the necessary appetizers — and what I’ve described above isn’t even half of them — before we sit down to the main meal. It must commence by 1:30 p.m., lest we fail to do the dessert buffet at 3:15, the spread of sandwiches at 5:30 and the return of the dessert buffet at 6:45.
要知道，布鲁尼家族有着自己的时间表，一种特定的节奏。就像是急行军，只不过是用火腿进行的美食急行军。我们得上午11点就开动，否则就没时间塞下所有非吃不可的开胃菜——第一段里罗列的那些，其实连一半都不到——然后才会坐下吃主餐。主餐必须得下午1点半开始，要不然就没办法在下午3点15分开始吃花样繁多的餐后甜点，再在5点半咽下各种三明治，最后在6点45分再吃一轮甜品。
“Buffet” doesn’t really cover it. “Burlesque” comes closer. To wit: My sister is making three pumpkin pies, and she’s one of maybe 10 guests bearing sweets. Aunt Vicki is baking another six pies — three apple and three pecan — to complement the cookies, brownies, cupcakes, cakes and tubs of ice cream that various other relatives contribute. We’re something like 40 people this year, but still. This could feed 400.
其实并不是什么“餐后甜品”，简直是品类多到荒唐的“甜品大汇演”。具体来讲：我姐姐准备做三个南瓜派，而像她一样要带甜点来的或许有10位宾客。薇姬阿姨还要烤六个派——三个苹果派加三个山核桃派。其他各式亲戚还会准备曲奇饼、布朗尼、杯子蛋糕、蛋糕和堆成小山的冰淇淋。今年的感恩节聚餐大概有40人参加，可是这些食物能填饱400人的肚子。
Italian-Americans are a gluttonous tribe, and when we look at the calendar, we don’t see big moments and small ones, peaks and valleys. We see occasions to eat a lot and occasions to eat even more than that.
意大利裔美国人是一个贪吃的群体。我们看日历的时候，可看不出什么大小日子、起起落落。在我们看来，日子只分为两种，一种应该大吃大喝，另一种应该胡吃海喝。
And Thanksgiving, with its focus on food and its veneration of plenty, is the ultimate occasion, the utmost license, our culinary id unbound. It’s when we’re released from our paddocks, ovoid thoroughbreds allowed to hit full stride.
感恩节，这个突出美食且崇尚丰盛的节日，是我们终极的舞台、是恣意饕餮的许可，也是充分施展厨艺的时刻。我们这些圆滚滚的纯种吃货，可以解脱束缚，肆意撒欢。
One year I hobbled myself. I was trying hard to diet, and I actually showed up and murmured something about steering clear of carbohydrates, just this once. You could have heard a chicken cutlet drop. Cousins gaped. Nieces had tears in their eyes. Aunt Carolyn grabbed the edge of the turkey platter to steady herself.
有一年，我想管住自己的嘴。我当时在努力节食，但还是去了家庭聚会，咕哝着说要避开碳水化合物，仅此一次。我听见炸鸡排咣当落地的声音，兄弟们瞠目结舌，姐妹们潸然泪下。卡罗琳婶婶为了稳住身体重心，紧紧攥住了火鸡大烤盘的边缘。
I’d cursed in the temple, and my penance was clear. I had two helpings of stuffing, along with a bulbous buttered yam.
我仿佛是在圣殿里说了不该说的话，要怎么赎罪再明显不过。我吃下了两份烤鸡，外加一大块黄油甘薯。
That’s a lie. I had helpings of two different kinds of stuffing. It’s a hallmark of Bruni Thanksgivings that there’s never just one of anything: no single vegetable, no solitary starch, no gargantuan turkey carrying the whole protein load.
好吧，我撒了个小谎。实际上，我吃了两种烤鸡。布鲁尼家族感恩节大餐的特色就是绝不单调：蔬菜不会缺少变化、淀粉类不单一种，也不会只有一只硕大的烤鸡贡献所有的蛋白质。
There’s usually an equally mammoth ham in the mix. There’s stuffing from inside the bird as well as stuffing from outside. One casserole of sweet potatoes has marshmallow on top; the other dispenses with that sugary hood. Someone might like a particular version best, so it must be there, along with the yams, and each alternative must exist in a quantity that would be sufficient if everyone decided at the last minute to eat it and only it.
席间通常还会有同样硕大的火腿肉混杂其中。火鸡里里外外都塞满了食材。一锅甘薯炖菜里最上方放的是棉花软糖；另一锅则省掉了这层甜腻腻的配料。有人或许会最喜欢某种特定的搭配，因此必须要与甘薯一同准备好，而且每种做法的分量也必须够大，足以应付每个人在最后一秒钟决定要吃这一种且只吃这一种。
And pasta must appear at some point. We’re Italian. We have a duty.
除此之外，意大利面条也必须出场。我们来自意大利嘛，这可是一种责任。
Every so often there’s a suggestion that we cut back. This goes over about as well as my forswearing of carbohydrates did. Here’s the problem: Aunt Carolyn eliminates the mozzarella balls and someone invariably asks, “Where are the mozzarella balls?” She exiles the stuffed mushrooms and someone desperately canvasses every room and every table surface for them, as if searching for a lost kitten. She ditches the yams and someone goes into a yam funk.
不时会出现我们应该节俭一些的建议。结果就跟我想戒除碳水化合物一样凄惨。问题是这样的：要是卡罗琳婶婶去掉了乳酪丸，就必然会有人问，“乳酪丸在哪儿呢？”要是她舍弃了焗酿蘑菇，就会有人拼命地在每个房间和每张桌子上找来找去，仿佛在搜寻走失的猫咪。要是她不做甘薯，就会有人因此而发狂。
A yam funk won’t do. It’s Thanksgiving! So she serves everything that she did on previous years and maybe, to amuse herself, something additional, which she’s then committed to serving forevermore.
有人为甘薯发狂可不成。这是感恩节啊！卡罗琳婶婶会把之前年份的所有菜品都做上，而且为了自娱自乐，或许还会加点新菜。自那以后，这道菜又会成为总要端上桌的固定菜品。
There were Thanksgivings past when I considered all of this absurdly wasteful, outrageously unhealthful, even obscene. I saw us as a parody of ourselves, a plump cartoon.
过去的感恩节里我曾经想过，这一切实在是浪费到离谱、过于不健康，甚至可以说骇人听闻。在我眼中，我们就像是卡通一般戏谑的形象，身材仿佛吹起的气球。
Now I just smile gratefully and chew. The cartoon’s meaning comes into ever sharper focus. It’s less about gluttony than about generosity. The calories are proxies for something else.
现在，我只会挂上感激的微笑，吃就是了。卡通的含义也越来越明显。这顿大餐与其说是为了胡吃海喝，倒不如说是为了展现慷慨。每个卡路里都别有深意。
Aunt Carolyn and Uncle Mario spread out everything that they do so that there can be no doubt about how much they treasure us. The rest of us bring everything that we do so that there can be no doubt about how much we treasure them.
卡罗琳婶婶和马里奥叔叔竭尽所能地端出食物，以此展现他们对我们毫无保留的爱。其他人呢，也竭尽所能地带去食物，以此展现我们对他们毫无保留的爱。