He has been called the Italian Schindler, credited with helping to save 5,000 Jews during the Holocaust. Giovanni Palatucci, a wartime police official, has been honored in Israel, in New York and in Italy, where squares and promenades have been named in his honor, and in the Vatican, where Pope John Paul II declared him a martyr, a step toward potential sainthood.
他一直被称作意大利的辛德勒(Schindler)，获此称号是因为曾在犹太人大屠杀(Holocaust)时帮助救过5000名犹太人。乔瓦尼·帕拉图西(Giovanni Palatucci)在战争期间是一名警官，他在以色列、纽约，和意大利受到敬仰，这些地方以他的名字为广场、大道命名，梵蒂冈的教皇约翰·保罗二世(Pope John Paul II)还宣布他为烈士，距可能取得的圣徒地位近了一步。
But at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, the tale of his heroic exploits is being removed from an exhibition after officials there learned of new evidence suggesting that, far from being a hero, he was an enthusiastic Nazi collaborator involved in the deportation of Jews to Auschwitz.
然而，位于华盛顿的美国大屠杀纪念馆(United States Holocaust Memorial Museum)却将他的英雄事迹从展览中撤除，此前，当地官员得到的新证据显示，他不仅不是英雄，还是个狂热的纳粹同谋，曾参与将犹太人驱逐到奥斯威辛。
A letter sent this month to the museum’s director by the Centro Primo Levi at the Center for Jewish Studies in New York stated that a research panel of more than a dozen scholars who reviewed nearly 700 documents concluded that for six years, Palatucci was “a willing executor of the racial legislation and — after taking the oath to Mussolini’s Social Republic, collaborated with the Nazis.”
纽约犹太人研究中心(Center for Jewish Studies)普里莫·莱维中心(Centro Primo Levi)在本月寄给该纪念馆的一封信中称，一个由十几名学者组成的研究小组查阅了近700份资料之后得出结论，在六年时间里，帕拉图西是“一名种族主义立法的自愿执行者，在向墨索里尼(Mussolini)的社会共和国(Social Republic)宣誓效忠以后，他开始与纳粹合作。”
The letter said that Italian and German records provided no evidence that he had helped Jews during the war and that the first mention only surfaced years later, in 1952. Researchers also found documents that showed Palatucci had helped the Germans identify Jews to round up.
这封信称，意大利和德国的记录中都没有任何证据证明他曾在战争期间帮助犹太人，这种说法直到数年后的1952年才出现。研究人员还发现了一些文件，显示帕拉图西曾协助德国人识别犹太人以将他们集中起来。
There is no established explanation for how the account of Palatucci’s heroics took hold, but some experts say its persistence owed much to the flattering light it shed on Italy after the war. Scholars said the new evidence surfaced in recent years as they gained access to documents. The goal of their research, they said, was to understand the role of Fiume, the city where Palatucci worked, as a breeding ground for fascism; the documents that undermined the account of Palatucci’s selfless heroism were a byproduct of that investigation.
至于帕拉图西的英雄传说是如何形成的，还没有现成的解释，但是一些专家称，它的广为流传主要得益于战后它为意大利形象所带来的正面影响。学者称，近年来随着他们得以接触一些文件，新证据才浮现出来。他们说，做研究的目的是为了了解作为法西斯主义滋生地的阜姆市，帕拉图西曾在这里工作。那些否定帕拉图西无私的英雄壮举的文件是这次调查的附带结果。
Palatucci has been credited with saving thousands of Jews between 1940 and 1944 while he was police chief in Fiume, an Adriatic port city that was considered the first symbol of Italy’s new Fascist Empire. (It is now called Rijeka and is part of Croatia.) When the Nazis occupied the city in 1943, for example, Palatucci was said to have destroyed records to prevent the Germans from sending Fiume’s Jews to concentration camps. His own death at age 35 in a camp at Dachau seemed to corroborate his valor.
一直以来，人们认为帕拉图西在1940年至1944年间在阜姆市任警察局长时，救过几千名犹太人。阜姆市是一座沿亚得里亚海的港口城市，曾被认为是意大利新法西斯帝国(Fascist Empire)的第一个标志。（这里现在更名为里耶卡，属于克罗地亚。）比如人们说，1943年纳粹占领该市时，帕拉图西销毁了很多记录，阻止德国人将阜姆的犹太人送进集中营。他自己在35岁时死于达豪一个集中营的事实似乎也佐证了他的英勇行为。
But Natalia Indrimi, the executive director of the Centro Primo Levi, said historians have been able to review these supposedly destroyed records in the Rijeka State Archives.
但是普里莫·莱维中心的执行主任纳塔利娅·因德里米(Natalia Indrimi)称，历史学家一直都能在里耶卡国家档案馆(Rijeka State Archives)查看这些被认为已经销毁的记录。
What they show, said Dr. Indrimi, who coordinated the research, is that Fiume had only 500 Jews by 1943, and that most of them — 412, or about 80 percent — ended up at Auschwitz, a higher percentage than in any other Italian city. The research on Palatucci found that rather than being police chief, he was the adjunct deputy commissary responsible for enforcing Fascist Italy’s racial laws. What’s more, his deportation to Dachau in 1944 was not related to saving Jews but to German accusations of embezzlement and treason for passing plans for the postwar independence of Fiume to the British.
协调这次研究的因德里米博士称，这些记录显示，到1943年，阜姆市只有500名犹太人，其中大部分——412人，约占80%——最后都到了奥斯维辛，这个比例比意大利任何其他城市都高。对帕拉图西的调查发现，他并非警察局长，而是负责执行法西斯意大利种族主义法律的临时副官。此外，他在1944年被驱逐到达豪也与救犹太人无关，而是因为德国人指控他挪用公款，及向英国人通报阜姆市战后的独立计划。
The report said it was possible that Palatucci had helped a handful of people, although it was unclear whether he had done this on the orders of superiors.
报告称，帕拉图西可能曾帮助过几个人，但还不清楚他这么做是否是奉上级的命令。
Dr. Indrimi said “the myth” surrounding Palatucci started in 1952 when his uncle Bishop Giuseppe Maria Palatucci used the story to persuade the Italian government to provide a pension for Giovanni Palatucci’s parents. The account, she said, gained momentum because it seemed to bolster the reputation of Pope Pius XII, whom Jewish groups have described as being indifferent to genocide.
因德里米称，1952年帕拉图西的叔叔朱塞佩·玛利亚·帕拉图西(Giuseppe Maria Palatucci)主教用他的故事劝说意大利政府为其父母提供退休金，而围绕他的这个“谜团”就是从那时开始的。她说，这个故事受到欢迎，是因为它似乎能提升教皇庇护十二世(Pope Pius XII)的名誉，而犹太团体认为庇护十二世对大屠杀漠不关心。
“If anything, Giovanni Palatucci represents the silence, self-righteousness and compliance of many young Italian officers who enthusiastically embraced Mussolini in his last disastrous steps,” Dr. Indrimi wrote in her letter to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Some of the evidence was presented at a conference at New York University last year.
因德里米在给美国大屠杀纪念馆的信中写到，“许多年轻的意大利年轻警官，他们在墨索里尼那些带来灾难性后果的行动中热情地给予他支持，如果要给乔瓦尼·帕拉图西定性，他就代表了这些人身上的沉默、伪善和服从。”去年，在纽约大学(New York University)的一次会议中，一些证据得以展示。
Perhaps the greatest recognition Palatucci received was being named in 1990 by Yad Vashem, Israel’s memorial to the Holocaust, as one of the Righteous Among the Nations — an honor roll of those who rescued Jews that also includes Oskar Schindler, the German industrialist who helped 1,200 Jews avoid the death camps.
或许帕拉图西收到的最大荣誉是在1990年被以色列犹太大屠杀纪念馆(Yad Vashem)命名为一位“国际义人”(Righteous Among the Nations)——这份荣誉名单上列有那些救过犹太人的人物，奥斯卡·辛德勒(Oskar Schindler)，这个曾帮助1200名犹太人避免被送进集中营的德国企业家也名列其中。
The narrative of Palatucci’s selflessness became the subject of articles, books and a television movie. Last month the Giovanni Palatucci Association credited his otherworldly intervention for the miraculous disappearance of a man’s kidney tumor as part of the case being made for sainthood.
很多文章、书籍以及一部电视电影都曾描述过帕拉图西的无私事迹。上月，乔瓦尼·帕拉图西协会(Giovanni Palatucci Association)还说，由于他的显灵，一位男子的肾脏肿瘤神秘地消失了，他们认为这证明了他的圣徒地位。
The Anti-Defamation League awarded Palatucci its Courage to Care Award on May, 18, 2005, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in turn declared to be Giovanni Palatucci Courage to Care Day. The International Raoul Wallenberg Foundation has a paean to him on its Web site.
2005年5月18日，反诽谤联盟(Anti-Defamation League)授予帕拉图西“勇于关怀奖”(Courage to Care Award)，市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)之后宣布这一天是“乔瓦尼·帕拉图西勇于关怀日”(Giovanni Palatucci Courage to Care Day)。国际劳尔瓦伦堡基金会(International Raoul Wallenberg Foundation)也在它的网站上盛赞帕拉图西。
The Rev. Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, said in an e-mail that the Vatican was aware of the questions raised and had asked a historian to study the matter.
梵蒂冈发言人费德里科·隆巴尔迪神父(Rev. Federico Lombardi)在一封邮件中称，梵蒂冈已意识到这些质疑声，并让一名历史学家对此进行了解。
An estimated 9,000 Jews were deported from Italy during World War II. But experts have noted that, although the 45,000 Jews in Italy were persecuted, most survived the war.
二战期间，约有9000名犹太人被逐出意大利。但是专家已经表示，虽然意大利的4.5万犹太人受到了迫害，但大多数还是在战争中幸存了下来。
Still, many scholars portray the belated claims of some Italians that they went out of their way to save Jews as part of an attempt to recast Italy’s Fascist past. “The default statement of every Fascist leader after the war was that ‘I helped the Jews,’ ” Dr. Indrimi said.
然而，很多学者依然认为，一些意大利人事后称他们曾努力营救犹太人，这只是他们在努力重塑意大利法西斯主义的历史。因德里米说：“战后，每个法西斯领导人都会说‘我曾经帮过犹太人。’”
Alexander Stille, a professor at the Columbia University journalism school who has reviewed some of the documents, said the Palatucci case is a result of three powerful institutions, all with a vested interest in publicizing what appeared to be a heroic tale: “The Italian government was anxious to rehabilitate itself and show that they were better and more humane than their Nazi allies. The Catholic Church was eager to tell a positive story about the church’s role during the war, and the State of Israel was eager to promote the idea of righteous gentiles and tell stories of right-minded ordinary people who helped to save ordinary Jews.”
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)新闻学院教授亚历山大·斯蒂尔(Alexander Stille)曾阅读过这些材料中的一些，他说，帕拉图西的事件是三个权力机构影响的结果，宣传这个看似英雄传说的故事，它们都有利可图：“意大利政府迫切想恢复自己的名誉，并表现出自己比他们的纳粹同盟要好、要更人道。天主教会(Catholic Church)急于说，教会在战争期间承担的角色具有积极意义，而以色列政府则急切地想宣传富有正义感的非犹太人的想法，并讲述富有正义感的普通人帮助普通犹太人的故事。”
The decision to remove the information about Palatucci from the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum came last week, Andrew Hollinger, the museum’s director of communications, said. The information has already been removed from the exhibition’s Web site, he said, and the museum is working on removing it from the physical display as well.
美国大屠杀纪念馆传讯部门负责人安德鲁·霍林格(Andrew Hollinger)称，该馆是在上周决定撤下有关帕拉图西的信息。他说，这些信息已经从展览的网站上撤下来，纪念馆也正在撤除展放的相关实物。