Ottavio Missoni, the patriarch of an esteemed Italian fashion house whose outré, multicolored knits and zigzag stitches became an insider status symbol for the ultra-wealthy, died on Thursday at the family’s home in Sumirago, Italy. He was 92.
意大利备受尊重的时装公司的创始人奥塔维奥·米索尼(Ottavio Missoni)周四（指5月9日——编注）在意大利苏拉米高家中去世，享年92岁。他设计的五颜六色的怪异针织衫和齿型刺绣图案成为超富阶层圈内人的地位象征。
His death, which was announced by the Missoni company, came four months after a small plane carrying his oldest son, Vittorio, the fashion house’s top executive, disappeared over the Caribbean Sea after taking off from Venezuela with three other passengers onboard. There has been no word about the fate of the plane or its passengers since then.
米索尼(Missoni)公司宣布了他的死讯。四个月前，他的大儿子，也就是该公司的最高执行官维托里奥(Vittorio)搭乘的一架小飞机从委内瑞拉起飞，在加勒比海上空失踪，机上还有其他三位乘客。至今没有任何关于这架飞机和机上乘客的消息。
Mr. Missoni, an Italian track star, and his young bride, Rosita, created the Missoni label in the 1950s, and for many decades it was considered the height of Italian sophistication, known for its rather jarring striated patterns. Missoni sweaters were collected by Lauren Bacall, Marcello Mastroianni and Rudolf Nureyev (who favored the house’s “crazy quilt” cardigans) and more recently by Madonna and Jennifer Lopez. Diana Vreeland, the legendary Vogue editor, included a Missoni vest as part of her uniform.
米索尼曾是意大利田径明星，他在20世纪50年代和自己年轻的新娘罗西塔(Rosita)创立了米索尼品牌。很多年来，该品牌被认为是意大利精细工艺的最高代表，以撞色条纹图案著称。米索尼的毛衣被很多名人收藏，包括劳伦·白考尔(Lauren Bacall)、马赛洛·马斯楚安尼(Marcello Mastroianni)和鲁道夫·纽瑞耶夫（Rudolf Nureyev，他最喜欢这家公司的“疯狂拼凑”开襟羊绒衫），以及近期的麦当娜和珍妮弗·洛佩兹(Jennifer Lopez)。《Vogue》杂志的传奇编辑黛安娜·弗里兰(Diana Vreeland)选中了米索尼的一件马甲作为制服的一部分。
Though they did not bear a familiar logo, the designs were so easily recognizable — and recognizably expensive — that they conveyed a peculiar social currency among the moneyed elite, like an updated varsity sweater for young preppies of the 1970s and ’80s.
虽然他们的品牌并不十分为人所知，但是他们的设计风格极易辨认——其价格之高昂也显而易见——所以在有钱的精英分子中掀起了一股独特的社会潮流，比如20世纪七八十年代年轻前皮士(preppy)们的时髦学院风毛衣。
In his 1989 novel about shopping, “I’ll Take It,” Paul Rudnick describes a character from a family of bargain hunters who tells of his obsession with a particular Missoni sweater, “which means it’s very well made,” he says, “and okay, I would rather die than be the kind of rich geek who buys $1,250 sweaters.” So he shoplifts it instead.
保罗·鲁德尼克(Paul Rudnick)在1989年出版了一本关于购物的小说，里面描写了一个专淘便宜货的家庭，其中一个家庭成员谈起了自己对某件米索尼毛衣的痴迷，“这件衣服我要了，也就是说它做工极好，”他说，“好吧，我宁死也不愿做那种花1250美元买件毛衣的有钱怪人”。所以他就从店里偷了一件。
Although the Missonis designed as a couple, Mr. Missoni, known as Tai, was the technician, plotting patterns that were inspired by Guatemalan, Aztec and Incan textiles or Abstract, Impressionist and Art Deco paintings. He designed on graph paper, mapping out shapes with startling combinations: primary colors that did battle with earth tones, and polka dots that chased whirling stripes through kaleidoscopic prisms. Mr. Missoni once wrote that he created a chromatic harmony by adding a third color to two clashing ones.
虽然米索尼夫妇是共同设计，但是被称为“泰”(Tai)的米索尼先生更善于设计图案，他的灵感来自危地马拉、阿兹特克和印加的纺织品，或者抽象派、印象派和装饰派的油画。他在图纸上设计出令人震惊的图案组合：与褐土色调冲突的三基色，追逐万花筒旋转条纹的波尔卡圆点。米索尼曾写道，他通过在两种冲突的颜色上加入第三种颜色来实现色彩的协调。
“Color?” he wrote. “What can I say? I like comparing color to music: Only seven notes and yet innumerable melodies have been composed with those seven notes. How many basic colors are there? I don’t remember exactly, seven perhaps, like the notes of the scale, but how many tones or shades does each color have? An infinite number, just as always endless are the hues and nuances composing a work of art.”
“颜色？”他写道，“我该怎么说呢？我喜欢把颜色比作音乐：我们只有7个音符，却能创作出无数的旋律。那总共有几种基本颜色呢？我记得不太清楚，可能是7种，就像音符那样，但是每种颜色又有多少种色调呢？数不清，就像构成一件艺术品的色调和细微差别永远是不计其数的。”
Ottavio Missoni was born on Feb. 11, 1921, in Dubrovnik, in what is now Croatia. His father, Vittorio, was an Italian sea captain then stationed on the Dalmatian Coast; his mother, Teresa de Vidovich, was an Austrian countess.
奥塔维奥·米索尼1921年2月11日出生在杜布罗夫尼克，也就是今天的克罗地亚。他的父亲维托里奥(Vittorio)是一个意大利船长，当时驻扎在达尔马西亚海岸；他的母亲特雷莎·迪·维多维奇(Teresa de Vidovich)是一位奥地利女伯爵。
Athletic, handsome and over six feet tall, the young Mr. Missoni was on his way to becoming an international track star — at 18 he was a student world champion in Vienna — when World War II took him to Egypt. As an infantryman in the Italian Army, he took part in the Axis forces’ desert campaign and was captured at El Alamein. After four years in a British prison camp, he was released in 1946 and returned to Italy, where he parlayed his love of track and field competitions into a business, joining a friend, Giorgio Oberweger, in making wool athletic suits.
年轻时的米索尼体格健壮，相貌英俊，6英尺多高，有望成为国际田径明星。18岁时他在维也纳获得了学生世界冠军，但在因为“二战”去往埃及，他作为意大利步兵参加了轴心国的沙漠战役，在阿拉曼被俘。他在英国的监狱集中营住了4年，1946年被释放，回到了意大利，他把自己对田径比赛的热爱投入到生意中去，和他的朋友乔治·奥博维格(Giorgio Oberweger)一起生产毛料运动套装。
In 1948, Mr. Missoni qualified to compete in the 400-meter hurdle race at the London Olympics and placed sixth in the event. He also designed his team’s uniforms. It was during that London sojourn that he was introduced to Rosita Jelmini, a 16-year-old convent student from Golasecca, Italy, who was there to study English. He agreed to meet her under the Cupid statue in Piccadilly Circus. They married five years later.
1948年，米索尼获得资格参加了伦敦奥运会的400米跨栏比赛，获得了第6名。他还设计了本队的队服。在伦敦逗留期间，他结识了16岁的罗西塔·耶尔米尼(Rosita Jelmini)。她是意大利戈拉塞卡一个教会女校的学生，当时在伦敦学英语。他同意在皮卡迪利广场的丘比特雕像下面与她会面。5年后他们结了婚。
The Jelmini family had a business making shawls and embroidery, and their knowledge of knitting machines helped enable the young couple to start their own business, in 1953, in the basement of their home in Gallarate, about 40 miles northwest of Milan.
耶尔米尼家里有制作披肩和刺绣的生意，他们在针织机器方面的知识帮助这对年轻夫妇开始了自己的生意——那是1953年，在他们位于米兰西北约40英里的加拉拉泰(Gallarate)家中的地下室开始的。
At first they made clothes for department stores to sell under the stores’ own labels, but in 1958 they began showing collections under the Missoni name. They were quickly recognized for their unusual presentations; one was an aquatic fashion show set at a pool featuring blowup plastic armchairs and floating furniture.
一开始，他们为百货公司制作服装，以百货公司自己的牌子销售，但是从1958年他们开始以米索尼的牌子展示其服装系列。他们不同寻常的展示方式很快得到了认可，其中一场以“水”为主题的时装秀在游泳池举行，其特色是充气塑料扶手椅和漂浮的家具。
Their big break came in the early 1960s, when they began making sweaters and dresses using the same machines that had been intended to make shawls and bedspreads. The machines, which created a streaky, space-dyed effect, produced sumptuous, astonishingly lightweight knits. The knits became a Missoni hallmark.
20世纪60年代初他们实现了重大突破，开始用本来用于生产披肩和床单的机器生产毛衣和连衣裙。这些机器能制造出带条纹或斑点的彩色效果，所以生产出了十分轻巧的华丽的针织衫。这些针织衫成了米索尼的标志。
“We try to find superior materials and new ways to use old materials,” Mr. Missoni said in 1971. “But I think our great asset is our simplicity of line. We make it possible for women to be dressed in fashion and still dress very simply.”
“我们努力寻找优异的材料或者处理旧材料的新方法，”米索尼1971年说，“但是我认为我们最可贵的一点是款式简单。我们能让女人们穿得既时尚又简单。”
As the business expanded, acquiring licenses for fragrances and a home collection, the Missonis constructed a stunning factory about 15 miles from Gallarate in Sumirago, known for its spectacular views of the Alps at sunset. They built a house next door for their three children, Vittorio, Luca and Angela, all of whom have worked for the family business, along with many of their children. Angela Missoni became the company’s designer, and her daughter Margherita appears in its fragrance advertisements.
在获得生产香水和家居系列的资格之后，米索尼夫妇的生意进一步扩大，他们在离加拉拉泰约15英里远的苏米拉高建了一个令人赞叹的工厂，此地以能观赏到阿尔卑斯山日落时分的壮美景色而闻名。为了三个孩子，他们在旁边建了一所房子。这三个孩子名叫维托里奥、卢卡(Luca)和安格拉(Angela)。他们都为家族企业工作，他们的很多子女亦是如此。安格拉·米索尼成了该公司的设计师，她的女儿玛格丽特(Margherita)在该公司的香水广告中亮相。
Besides Margherita, Mr. Missoni’s survivors include his wife, Luca and Angela Missoni and several other grandchildren.
除了玛格丽特，米索尼在世的亲人还有他的妻子，卢卡和安格拉·米索尼以及其他几个孙辈。
Vittorio Missoni, who was 58 at the time, was in charge of the company’s business operations when his plane went down on Jan. 4 while he was vacationing. His companion, Maurizia Castiglioni, and two other Italians were also onboard.
今年58岁的维托里奥·米索尼负责公司的经营，1月4日，他度假时所乘坐的飞机坠落了。他的伴侣莫里奇亚·卡斯蒂廖尼(Maurizia Castiglioni)以及另外两位意大利人也在机上。
Since the late 1990s, when Ottavio and Rosita Missoni handed over control of the business to their children, the company has expanded into a lifestyle brand with furniture, fragrances and hotels, as well a collaboration with Target in 2011 that broke many store records.
从20世纪90年代末，奥塔维奥和罗西塔·米索尼把公司的控制权交给孩子们之后，该公司已经扩展成为一个生活方式品牌，生产家具和香水，经营酒店，2011年还与Target百货公司合作，打破了该商场的多项销售纪录。
While they preferred to live and work in the countryside, the Missonis played an important — though somewhat accidental — role in the development of the industrial city of Milan as an international fashion capital.
虽然米索尼夫妇更喜欢在乡下生活和工作，但是他们在国际时尚之都米兰的发展之中扮演了重要的角色，尽管这多少是一种意外。
In 1967, they had been invited to present their collection at a prestigious trade fair at the Pitti Palace in Florence, where, minutes before the show, Mrs. Missoni asked all the models to remove their bras because they were visible beneath the thin layers of knits. On the runway, however, the harsh spotlights made the knits nearly transparent, causing both a scandal (the Missonis were banned from the venue) and a sensation (the fashion cognoscenti eagerly followed them back to Milan, which was just then beginning to stage its own semiannual fashion weeks).
1967年，他们应邀在佛罗伦萨皮蒂宫享有盛誉的商品交易会上展示自己的服装系列。在时装秀开始前几分钟，米索尼夫人要求所有的模特脱掉胸罩，因为透过薄薄的针织衫，它们清晰可见。但是在秀台上，耀眼的聚光灯使针织衫几乎变成了透明的，这既引起了反感（米索尼夫妇被皮蒂宫禁止入场），也引起了轰动（时装鉴赏家们热切地追随他们返回米兰，那里正要开始举行半年一次的时装周）。
“ ‘What do they think, that Pitti is the Crazy Horse?’ wrote one disgusted journalist at the time,” Vittorio Missoni said during a 2004 retrospective. “Of course, then everyone wanted to see the brand.”
“当时一个讨厌的记者写道，‘他们是怎么想的？难道把皮蒂宫当成了疯马夜总会(Crazy Horse)’？”维托里奥·米索尼在2004年的回顾展上说，“当然，从那以后，所有人都想看到这个品牌。”