As relatives of the missing and the dead tearfully made their way to the makeshift morgue here in Amatrice, dust-covered rescuers worked Thursday in sweaty shifts, hoping to find people still alive under the remains of buildings destroyed by the earthquake in central Italy.
发生在意大利中部的地震毁坏了大量建筑。周四在阿马特里切(Amatrice)，失踪者和遇难者亲属泪眼婆娑地赶往临时太平间，满身尘土的救援人员则大汗淋漓地轮班工作，希望找到废墟下的幸存者。
Excavation machines moved rubble onto trucks to clear the streets of this quiet mountain town on Thursday, even as two strong aftershocks — among more than 400 since the 6.2-magnitude earthquake struck at 3:36 a.m. on Wednesday — jolted Amatrice again.
周四当天，尽管阿马特里切又发生了两次强余震，挖掘机仍在将瓦砾转移到卡车上，以便清理这个寂静的山区小镇的道路。自周三凌晨3点36分发生6.2级地震以来，这里已发生400多次余震。
One volunteer who was flown in by helicopter as part of a United Nations search-and-rescue team, Alessandro Dalvit, and his dog Muttley found 16 bodies, including those of an 8-month-old boy and his parents.
乘坐直升机抵达这里的志愿者亚历山德罗·达尔维特(Alessandro Dalvit)是联合国的一个搜救队的成员。他和自己的爱犬马特莱(Muttley)找到了16具遗体，包括一个八个月大的男婴和他的父母。
“One, two, three, four, five, six, seven — dead, morti,” Mr. Dalvit said, showing photographs on his cellphone, ending with an image of a row of coffins. “At least you are able to give the bodies back to their families.”
“一个、二个、三个、四个、五个、六个、七个，都遇难了，”达尔维特给记者看自己手机上的照片。最后一张上面是一排棺材。“至少能够把遗体交还给他们的家人。”
As of Thursday afternoon, the death toll stood at 250, including victims from towns like Amatrice and Accumoli, both in the Lazio region, and the village of Arquata del Tronto,in the neighboring Marche region. The figure could rise again, given that some people remain unaccounted for.
截至周四下午，包括拉齐奥大区的阿马特里切和阿库莫利(Accumoli)等镇，以及邻近的马尔凯大区阿尔夸塔德尔特龙托(Arquata del Tronto)村的遇难者在内，死亡人数仍是250人。考虑到仍有一些人下落不明，这个数字可能还会上升。
“For this phase, it’s important that we continue to dig through the rubble and also offer assistance to the population, providing beds, and food, and letting them know that they’re not alone,” Nicola Zingaretti, the president of the Lazio Region, said as he walked briskly through the Amatrice neighborhood where various emergency coordination operations had been set up. “In tragedy there is complete solidarity.”
“目前这个阶段，重要的是我们要继续在废墟中挖掘，同时帮助民众，给他们提供床和食物，让他们知道他们并不孤单，”拉齐奥大区的行政长官尼古拉·津加雷蒂(Nicola Zingaretti)在快速步行视察阿马特里切一带时说。“不幸会让人们完全团结起来。”阿马特里切一带成立了各种各样的应急协调机构。
The number of missing in Amatrice remained unclear on Thursday, as local residents wondered aloud about tourists and seasonal workers, mostly from Romania, who arrive during the busy summer months. Romanian officials confirmed that five of their citizens had died in the quake, that four had been injured and that 11 others were missing. Two Spaniards also died, Italian officials said.
周四当天，阿马特里切的失踪者人数仍不确定。当地居民大声打听游客和季节工的情况。季节工主要来自罗马尼亚，他们会在繁忙的夏季来到这里。罗马尼亚官方证实五名该国公民在地震中遇难，四人受伤，另有11人失踪。意大利官方称，遇难者中还包括两名西班牙人。
Speaking from Rome, Immacolata Postiglione, who runs the emergency unit at the Civil Protection Department, said that 215 people had been rescued from the wreckage of the earthquake. At least 264 people had been hospitalized, the Health Ministry said.
意大利公民保护局(Civil Protection Department)应急部门负责人伊玛科拉塔·波斯蒂廖内(Immacolata Postiglione)在罗马表示，已从地震废墟中救出215人。意大利卫生部(Health Ministry)则表示，至少264人在医院接受治疗。
In Saletta, another town damaged by the quake, Adriana Ciocchetti, a homemaker and a grandmother from Pagliano, near Frosinone, said she had not known what to expect when she arrived as a volunteer for the Italian Red Cross. “In cases like this, you just go,” Ms. Ciocchetti said.
在受灾的另一个镇萨莱塔(Saletta)，来自弗罗西诺内附近的帕利安诺的家庭主妇、已当祖母的阿德里安娜·乔凯蒂(Adriana Ciocchetti)说，她以意大利红十字会志愿者的身份抵达灾区时，不知道会遇到什么情况。“在这种情况下，行动就是了，”乔凯蒂所。
But the work was heartbreaking, she said. One woman she comforted on Wednesday had lost her family. “I was looking at a crushed house and said out loud, ‘I hope no one lived there,’ and a woman turned and said, ‘That’s where my daughter and grandchildren lived,’” Ms. Ciocchetti said.
但她说，志愿工作令人心碎。周三，她安慰了一名失去家人的女子。“我看着一处被毁坏的房屋大声说，‘希望这里没人住，’这时一名女子转过身来说，‘我女儿和她的几个孩子住在这里，’”乔凯蒂说。
“People are so disoriented that many don’t even really realize what’s happened.”
“人们感到非常恍惚，以至于很多人甚至还没有真正意识到发生了什么事情。”
The Italian Red Cross was one of the first organizations to arrive in Amatrice. “Within two hours of the quake we were ready to move,” said Ignazio Schintu, the organization’s emergency manager. By Wednesday evening, the Red Cross — with about 400 workers and volunteers — had set up medical services, emergency kitchens, washroom facilities and tents.
意大利红十字会是最先抵达阿马特里切的组织之一。“地震发生后不到两小时，我们就准备好出发了，”该组织的紧急事务经理伊格纳齐奥·斯金图(Ignazio Schintu)说。到周三傍晚，带来了大约400名工作人员和志愿者的红十字会已经搭建好了医疗服务场所、紧急厨房、卫生间和帐篷。
On Thursday, they were setting up a base camp on an athletic field in Amatrice for the workers assisting those left homeless and now living in tents. “Our psychologists are here to assist them,” Mr. Schintu said. “Many earthquake victims don’t want to sleep under any sort of covering, even a tent.”
周四当天，他们正在阿马特里切的一个运动场上，给帮助那些住在帐篷里的无家可归者的工作人员搭建一个大本营。“我们在这里安排了心理学专家协助他们，”斯金图说。“很多地震灾民不愿睡在任何遮挡物下面，哪怕是帐篷。”
“People have to get over this first moment,” though the two strong aftershocks felt on Thursday “certainly don’t make it easier,” he said.
“人们必须撑过最初的难捱时刻，”尽管周四的两场强余震“肯定是雪上加霜”，他说。
Just outside the town, a camp for 250 homeless survivors was being set up by Anpas, one of the dozens of volunteer associations that rushed to the quake area. Tents, for eight to 12 people each, were being prepared for their arrival.
已有数十个志愿者协会奔至震区，Anpas就是其中之一，其成员正在小镇外给250名无家可归的幸存者搭建营地。为迎接幸存者的到来，他们忙着支起帐篷，每顶帐篷能容纳八到12人。
Though temporary in nature, for some, they could become home for months.
尽管是临时住所，但对一些人而言，这些帐篷在未来的数月里就是家了。
Some Amatrice residents found themselves pressed into service as emergency workers, like the Rev. Savino D’Amelio, a parish priest, who helped guide to safety 27 people from his retirement home shortly after the quake hit. “There were three of us, moving wheelchairs,” Father D’Amelio said, still shaken. “We got them all out without a scratch.”
阿马特里切的一些居民发现自己被迫扮演起了急救人员的角色，比如教区教士萨维诺·德阿梅里奥(Savino D’Amelio)。地震发生不久后，他帮忙将27人从他所在的养老院转移到了安全的地方。“我们一共有三个人，推着轮椅，”至今仍心有余悸的德阿梅里奥神父说。“我们把他们毫发无损地全弄了出来。”
“Now we’re trying to help people, ease the desperation of those who lost children and teenagers,” he said. “I hope our strength holds out.”
“我们现在正竭力为人们提供帮助，宽慰那些因失去几岁或者十几岁的孩子而陷入绝望的家长，”他说。“希望我们有力气一直坚持下去。”
Across Amatrice, volunteers collected clothing, blankets, toiletries and food donated by people and institutions throughout Italy. “We’ve seen incredible solidarity, closeness, love, help from all of Italy,” with even the country’s struggling municipalities offering funds, said Giancarlo Carloni, the town’s deputy mayor. “It makes me proud to be an Italian.”
在阿马特里切镇各处，志愿者负责收集来自意大利各地的个人和机构所捐赠的衣物、被褥、洗漱用品和食物。“我们看到了不可思议的团结、亲密、友爱，以及来自整个意大利的帮助，”就连一些处境艰难的城市也提供了资金，副镇长吉安卡洛·卡洛尼(Giancarlo Carloni)说。“这让我为自己身为意大利人而自豪。”
Outside the temporary morgue in Amatrice, a small crowd of residents waited for names of the dead to be called.
阿马特里切的临时太平房外，一小群居民正等人宣布遇难者的姓名。
Some sobbed, while others clutched at one another for support.
有人轻声啜泣，还有人相互搀扶着，为彼此提供支持。
“The identification has to be done right away — it’s hot,” Mr. Carloni said.
“遗体确认事宜必须马上就办——天很热，”卡洛尼说。
Fabrizio Curcio, the chief of Italy’s Civil Protection Department, praised the “great generosity” and “positive enthusiasm” on the part of the rescue workers and volunteers who had raced to the earthquake zone. But, he said, some volunteers will be asked to go home.
意大利民防部(Civil Protection Department)的负责人法布里奇奥·柯西奥(Fabrizio Curio)称赞说，竞相赶到震区的急救人员和志愿者们表现出了“极大的善意”和“积极的热情”。但他表示，会让一些志愿者回家去。
“We are many, and only those who are necessary must remain,” he said.
“我们有很多人手，只有那些必不可少的人才必须留下，”他说。
Those residents who could leave Amatrice, now a ghost town, did so, finding refuge with relatives or at second homes on the seaside, said Mr. Carloni, the deputy mayor, who spent the night with his wife in their car. His house was standing, he said, but she was afraid to stay in it.
阿马特里切如今已是一座鬼城。副镇长卡洛尼说，能离开的居民都离开了，去投亲靠友，或者前往海边的第二住所。卡洛尼整夜都和妻子待在他们的汽车里。他说自家的房子并未倒塌，但妻子不敢住进去。
Bishop Domenico Pompili of the nearby town of Rieti and the Rev. Fabrizio Borrello, a priest from the town, came to Amatrice on Thursday to offer spiritual comfort to the survivors and bless the bodies in the morgue.
附近城镇列蒂的主教多梅尼科·蓬皮利(Fabrizio Curio)和该镇的神父法布里奇奥·博雷洛(Fabrizio Borrello)于周四来到了阿马特里切，为幸存者提供精神上的安慰，为太平间里的死者祈福。
“There were a lot of them,” Father Borrello said. “But there are still many people missing,” including many families, so “there is no one to come and identify them.”
“这里停放着很多尸体，”博雷洛神父说。“但尚有很多人失踪，”牵涉到很多家庭，因此“没人来认领尸体”。
Efforts to find survivors in the rubble continued throughout the day, “but the probabilities are about down to zero,” said one officer with Italy’s Finance Police who declined to give his name because he was not authorized to speak to the news media.
在瓦砾堆中搜寻幸存者的工作一整天都在持续，“但找到的可能性基本为零，”意大利经济警察总局(Finance Police)的一名官员说。由于未被授权向媒体发言，他要求匿名。
Mauro Bellavita, a volunteer who came to Amatrice with four other volunteers from the town of Acquapendente, said he was not ready to give up. “Hope is the last thing to die,” he said.
一位名叫毛罗·贝拉维塔(Mauro Bellavita)的志愿者是和另外四外志愿者一道从阿夸彭登泰镇赶来的。他说自己还没准备放弃。“什么都没了，希望也不能没，”他说。