ROME — Responding to the persistent problem of violence against women, Prime Minister Enrico Letta this month announced “very harsh, very tough” measures to counter domestic abuse and what he called “femicide,” the killing of women because they are women, often at the hands of current or former husbands or boyfriends.
罗马——针对持续存在的女性遭受暴力的问题，总理恩里科·莱塔(Enrico Letta)上个月宣布以“非常严厉、非常强硬”的措施打击家庭暴力，以及他称为“女性谋杀”(femicide)的罪行，即仅仅因为是女性而遭到杀害，并多死于现任或前任丈夫或男朋友之手。
The 12-point decree, effective immediately, sets stricter penalties for the perpetrators of domestic abuse, sexual violence and stalking, and it expands protections for some of the most vulnerable women, including immigrants who lack residency permits.
这部即刻生效的12点法令为家庭暴力、性暴力和跟踪设定了更严格的惩罚标准，并扩大了对于一些处在最弱势地位的女性的保护，包括没有居留许可的移民。
“We think that in our country it is necessary to send a strong signal” to combat domestic violence, Mr. Letta said when he announced the measures on Aug. 8. After a spate of widely reported attacks on women, the decree is “a sign of radical change on the issue,” he said.
“我们认为有必要在国内发出一个强有力的信号”以打击家庭暴力，8月8日莱塔宣布措施时说道。在一连串女性受袭事件受到广泛报道后，他说，这部法令“是这个问题会发生大幅转变的一个征兆。”
But new attacks in the wake of Mr. Letta’s announcement have bolstered criticism from victims’ advocates who say that stiffer penalties alone are not enough to protect women and stem domestic violence.
但莱塔宣布法令后立刻就又发生了新的袭击事件，印证了受害者权益倡导人士的批评，他们认为更为严厉的惩罚本身不足以保护女性、阻止家庭暴力。
Last week, a woman in northern Italy was fatally stabbed by her former partner, who then hid her body in his car; a Sicilian woman was murdered in front of her child by her former husband, who then committed suicide; and a man whose motives are still unknown threw acid in a woman’s face in Genoa.
上周，意大利北部的一位女子被她的前任伴侣刺死后，尸体被藏匿于他的汽车里；西西里的一名妇女当着孩子的面被她的前夫杀害，前夫随后自杀；热那亚一名男子向一位女子的脸上泼酸液，动机至今不明。
More than 80 women have been killed so far this year, most of them by husbands, boyfriends or former partners, according to an unofficial tally kept by the Italian news media. Many of the victims had called the police to report stalking or harassment. About 75 percent of the 2,200 women murdered from 2000 to 2012 — roughly one murder every two days — were killed by partners or former partners, according to a study carried out by Eures, a European Union agency that monitors social affairs and employment issues, in collaboration with the Ansa news agency.
根据意大利新闻媒体保存的一份非官方记录，今年已有80多位女性被杀害，其中多数是被丈夫、男朋友或前任伴侣杀害。很多受害者向警察报告过被跟踪或骚扰的情况。欧盟负责监督社会和就业情况的机构欧洲就业服务部(Eures)与安莎通讯社(Ansa)合作进行的研究显示，2000年至2012年间被谋杀的2200名女性中——大致每隔一天就有一起——约75%的受害者被伴侣或前任伴侣杀害。
A United Nations report last year on violence against women in Italy called domestic abuse the “most pervasive form of violence” in the country, affecting nearly 32 percent of women between the ages of 16 and 70, according to a 2006 survey. It also noted that more than 90 percent of the Italian women who were raped or abused did not report it to the police.
去年，联合国针对意大利妇女遭受暴力情况给出的报告称，家庭暴力是该国“最普遍存在的暴力形式”。2006年的调查显示，近32%的16至70岁女性受到影响。同时90%以上被强暴或虐待的意大利女性未向警察报告。
Victims’ advocates and counselors who work with battered women say they welcome the attention the government is focusing on a long-neglected social problem, but they contend that for the most part the decree misses the mark.
与受害女性合作的倡导和咨询人士对政府关注这个长期被忽视的社会问题表示欢迎，但他们同时提出法令大部分内容并没有指出问题关键。
Italy does not need tougher laws, the critics say, because existing legislation is adequate, if arbitrarily applied. What is missing, they contend, is a better-organized, better-financed network of psychological, legal and financial assistance for women who decide to leave an abusive relationship.
批评家们认为意大利不需要更严格的法律，已有的法案已经够用，即使应用中有不一致情况。他们认为缺失的是一个组织更合理、资金更充足的体系，为决定离开一段受虐关系的女性提供心理、法律和经济援助。
“To make changes to the penal system without addressing the issue of how to better protect women means being blind to reality,” said Barbara Spinelli, a feminist and a lawyer who wrote a report on domestic violence in Italy for the United Nations’ Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women.
“仅改变刑罚系统，而不去解决如何更好保护女性的问题，是无视现实，”为联合国消除对妇女歧视委员会(Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women)撰写意大利家庭暴力情况报告的律师及女权主义者芭芭拉·斯皮内利(Barbara Spinelli)说道。
Reports by United Nations and European agencies underscore “the failure of Italian institutions and authorities to give adequate protection to women victims from their partners or ex-partners,” Ms. Spinelli said. “Either you carry out the necessary structural reforms, or this decree won’t help women.”
联合国及欧盟的报告均指出“意大利当局及各机构没有为女性受害者提供充分保护，使其免受伴侣或前任伴侣的伤害，”斯皮内里讲到。“必须要进行必要的结构改革，否则法令就无法帮助女性。”
One such structural problem is the paucity of emergency housing for abuse victims. Rome’s principal emergency shelter for battered women consists of a nondescript three-room apartment near the once-legendary Cinecittà film studios. Serving Rome as well as the entire Lazio region of central Italy, it can accommodate no more than three women at a time, for a maximum stay of a week.
一个结构性的问题就是缺乏受害者紧急收容所。罗马一个主要的受害女性收容所是个平凡的三居室，在曾经名噪一时的西尼西塔电影制片厂(Cinecittà)附近。该收容所服务范围覆盖罗马及意大利中部整个拉齐奥地区，但只能同时收留不超过3名女性，最多暂居1周。
Given the scale of the need, there are “dramatically few places” for battered women to go to in Italy, said Emanuela Donato, one of the workers at Servizio Antiviolenza S O S Donna H24, a 24-hour-a-day service for victims of domestic violence and emergency shelter. So far this year, she said, more than 220 women have called the center’s help line.
和需求规模相比，受害妇女在意大利能寻求帮助的地方“太少了”，艾玛努埃拉·多纳托(Emanuela Donato)说道。她是“女性24小时紧急反暴力服务”(Servizio Antiviolenza S O S Donna H24)的一名工作人员，该中心为家庭暴力受害者提供24小时服务和收容。她说截至目前，今年已有220多名女性拨打了中心的援助热线。
Italy also falls short when it comes to legal, medical, psychological and financial assistance for women who leave an abusive relationship, domestic abuse workers said.
负责家庭暴力的社工们表示，对于那些逃离受虐关系的女性，意大利缺乏相应的法律、医疗、心理和经济方面的援助。
“The message that emerges is stay home, because if you leave there is nothing, or very little to help you,” Ms. Donato said.
多纳托说，“传达出的讯息就是要待在家里。因为如果你离开的话，得不到任何帮助，或者说只能得到少之又少的帮助。”
In fact, in the current bleak economic situation, “many shelters and anti-violence centers around Italy are closing because of lack of funding,” said Oria Gargano, the president of Be Free, the association that manages the S O S shelter with Rome’s municipal administration. The government decree “doesn’t really touch this question,” she said.
事实上，在当前不景气的经济情况下，“意大利很多收容所和反暴力中心都因为缺乏资金而关闭，”自由协会(Be Free)主席欧莉娅·加尔加诺(Oria Gargano)讲道。该协会与罗马市政府共同管理救助收容所。她认为，政府的法令“并没有真正触及这个问题”。
The government has defended the decree, which still requires the approval of both houses of Parliament to become law, and Maria Cecilia Guerra, the deputy labor minister who led the task force that drafted the decree, said that beyond offering more protection for victims, the measures were intended “to increase awareness about domestic violence.”
政府已为法令进行了辩护，但仍需议会两院批准才可成为法律。领导法令起草小组的副劳动部长玛利亚·塞西莉亚·格拉(Maria Cecilia Guerra)表示，制定这些措施，除了为受害者提供更多保护外，也是为了“提高对于家庭暴力的意识”。
Ms. Guerra acknowledged that while the network providing assistance to battered women needed to be improved, Italy’s economic crisis would require groups offering services to victims to develop better “synergy among existing structures.”
格拉承认，需要改善受害女性援助网络，但意大利的经济危机也要求为受害者提供服务的组织，能在“现有体系之间”开展更好的配合。
But Ms. Donato, the shelter worker in Rome, said it was difficult to operate the center with the little money it received. The lack of resources is “its own form of violence against women,” she said.
罗马收容所的工作人员多纳托则认为，中心靠得到的那点资金，很难运转。缺乏资源本身“就是针对女性的暴力”，她说道。