Elisabetta Bruscolini and Giancarlo Astrologo are passionate collectors of friends, objects and, yes, homes.
伊丽莎白·布鲁斯科利尼(Elisabetta Bruscolini)和吉安卡洛·阿斯特罗洛戈(Giancarlo Astrologo)是狂热的收藏者，喜欢广交朋友、收集物品，还有，他们也喜欢收藏房屋。
She is the general manager of the national film school in Italy, a producer known for spotting gifted young filmmakers and nurturing them through their first major projects. He is a former high-end fashion designer who has turned his attention to collecting art.
布鲁斯科利尼是意大利国家电影学校的总经理。身为制作人，她素以一双慧眼闻名，善于发现有天赋的年轻制片人，会在这些后起之秀开展首个重大项目时加以扶持。阿斯特罗洛戈曾是高级时装设计师，现在则将注意力转向了收藏艺术品。
But while they have been together for 16 years, they have never felt the urge to wed.
他们虽然在一起16年了，却从不急着结婚。
“Marriage? I don’t think it’s important,” Ms. Bruscolini said. “A relationship is something that you choose every day. We amuse each other and never get bored because we like to do the same things: friends, talk, art, cinema, traveling.”
“结婚？我不觉得这是一件重要的事，”布鲁斯科利尼说，“恋爱关系是你每天做出的选择。我们相互取悦，从来不会觉得无聊，因为我们喜欢做同样的事情：交友、聊天、欣赏艺术、看电影、旅行。”
And the large community of friends they have cultivated melds with their combined extended families (three adult sons and several grandchildren) not just in Rome, where they have their primary residence, but also in Tuscany, where they spend most of their free time.
他们交了一大群朋友，这群朋友跟两人各自亲属所组成的大家庭（包括三个已成年的子女和好几个孙子、孙女）也交往甚密。他们的朋友圈不仅局限在两人的主要居住地——罗马，还遍及托斯卡纳，他们在那里度过了大部分闲暇时光。
Early on in their relationship, they renovated a house in the Tuscan town of Castelmuzio, meticulously preserving the medieval exterior while turning the interiors sleek and modern and white — an ideal backdrop for their easy entertaining style, art collection (his) and vintage film photographs (hers).
在刚刚确立恋爱关系时，他们在卡斯特尔穆齐奥(Castelmuzio)的托斯卡纳镇改造了一套房子，对这套房子带有中世纪风格的外饰进行了精心维护，同时将内饰设计成了流线型、白色系的现代主义风格——正好符合他们随和好客的秉性，也完美地衬托了男女主人分别收藏的艺术品和旧胶片照片。
The project was a three-year collaboration with a small Sardinian firm, VPS Architetti, led by Giuseppe Vallifuoco, a man Ms. Bruscolini lived with for 13 years when her twin sons were young. (Some people might find such a situation uncomfortable, but as Mr. Astrologo explained, as Ms. Bruscolini translated from Italian: “Giuseppe has become one of my best friends. We are like brothers. There is no friction working together.”)
为了开展这项设计工程，他们与撒丁岛(Sardin)上一家名为VPS Architetti的小公司合作了三年。公司的领导者叫约瑟夫·瓦利福科(Giuseppe Vallifuoco)，布鲁斯科利尼曾与他同居过13年。那时候，她的双胞胎孩子还没有长大。（有些人可能会觉得这种事情非常尴尬，但阿斯特罗洛戈不这么认为，他是这么说的——布鲁斯科利尼把他的原话从意大利语翻译成了英语——“瓦利福科已经成了我最好的朋友之一。我们就像兄弟一样，在一起工作没有摩擦。”）
Mr. Astrologo and Ms. Bruscolini, now both in their 60s, adored that house. But one day in 2007, while out walking in the countryside, they learned that the striking hillside property they most coveted, a large parish house attached to an ancient church, was for sale, Ms. Bruscolini said. “We bought it in two days,” she said. “It’s one kilometer away from the village, in the middle of an olive grove — a magical site.”
阿斯特罗洛戈和布鲁斯科利尼现在都已经六十多岁了，他们很喜欢托斯卡纳镇的那处房子。不过，2007年的一天，两人在郊区散步时，发现他们最想要的那套大房子正在出售。那是一套位于山间的牧师宿舍，紧挨着一座古老的教堂。布鲁斯科利尼说：“我们两天内就把它买了下来，它离最近的村庄一公里远，就坐落在一片橄榄林中——那真是个神奇的地方。”
The church, the Pieve di Santo Stefano in Cennano, was rebuilt in 1285 on a foundation that dates to around A.D. 715. (Events like baptisms, weddings and concerts are still held there, but church services take place in town.) And for centuries, the adjacent stone residence sheltered priests and pilgrims, knights and peasant farmers.
房子旁边的教堂，就是切纳诺(Cennano)的圣斯特凡诺教堂(Pieve di Santo Stefano)。它曾在1285年经过重建，地基始建于公元715年（现在那里依然会举办洗礼、婚礼和音乐会，但是宗教礼拜仪式已移至镇上举行）。许多世纪以来，教堂旁边的石砌住宅内一直居住着牧师、朝圣者、骑士和农民。
“For the first five months, we undid what had been done in the last 100 years, and the original structure began to show itself,” Ms. Bruscolini said. “We followed the same idea of the old, old house: all large open rooms, and where the priests slept was a big chimney. When pilgrims stopped in, they could sleep there, too. The bottom floor is where the animals were.”
“在头五个月里，我们对这套房子过去一百年来的面貌进行了还原，房子原本的结构开始显露出来，”布鲁斯科利尼说，“我们遵循了这座古宅原本的设计思路：所有房间一律为敞开式的大空间，牧师睡觉的地方是个大烟囱。朝圣者投宿时也可以睡在那里。底层则是圈养牲口的地方。”
No one imagined that renovating the more than 5,000-square-foot structure, which they bought for about $1 million, would cost almost $2.6 million and take nearly four years. Turns out, getting approval to remodel a historic building can be downright byzantine in Tuscany. But that wasn’t the only obstacle.
没有人会想到，装修一套5000平方英尺（约合465平方米）的房子，需要花费将近260万美元（约合人民币1581万元）和将近四年的时间。而他们当初买下这套房子，也只花了100万美元（约合人民币608万元）。事实证明，在托斯卡纳，获准改建一座历史建筑可能会非常困难，但这还不是唯一的障碍。
Designing away pungent, age-old smells is not something architects normally have to contend with, but the stench on the lower level was omnipresent, recalled Ilene Steingut, an American architect on the team. “The smell was overwhelming,” said Ms. Steingut, who is one of three partners in the firm and also happens to be married to Mr. Vallifuoco, Ms. Bruscolini’s ex. (That complication didn’t seem to trouble anyone much, either. As Ms. Bruscolini said, “In our circle of friends, it is not considered something that is that unusual.”)
为了驱除屋里由来已久的刺鼻气味而设计一套方案出来，通常并不是建筑师需要考虑的问题；不过据设计团队中的美国建筑师艾琳·斯泰因戈特(Ilene Steingut)回忆，当时房子底层的恶臭可谓无处不在。“臭味实在太重了。”她说。斯泰因戈特是VPS Architetti公司的三位合伙人之一，碰巧也是布鲁斯科利尼前男友瓦利福科的妻子。（这四个人之间错综复杂的关系似乎并没有让任何人感到困扰。正如布鲁斯科利尼所说，“在我们的朋友圈当中，这种事情并不会让人觉得异样。”）
The porous stone walls of the lower level had afforded the animals a place to relieve themselves for centuries, and the only way to get rid of the smell, the architects decided, was to create an insulating structure around it. “To ensure that the smell would not re-emerge,” Ms. Steingut said, “we decided to use a cavity wall system with an air space between the existing and new walls in hollow-core terra-cotta units.”
房屋底层的多孔石墙，几个世纪来一直承担着牲畜排泄场所的角色，建筑师们认为，驱除恶臭的唯一方法就是在周围建造一层绝缘结构。“为了不让恶臭再散发出来，”斯泰因戈特说，“我们决定采用空心墙体系，在新墙和旧墙之间留下空隙，做成空心砖似的结构。”
Many of the home’s other walls had also been built up or added onto throughout the ages, and everyone involved described the puzzle of figuring out how to deal with them as a similarly daunting challenge — or, to put it another way, an organic design process.
这套房子中还有很多墙壁，是随着岁月流逝逐渐修砌或加装出来的，对此，团队成员无不表示，研究怎样处理它们，也是个令人头疼的挑战——或者换句话说，这是一个有机的设计过程。
Changes were made mid-construction (bookcases were carved into the thick walls, internal windows were added), unnerving local craftsmen who were accustomed to dealing with a predetermined blueprint.
设计方案在施工过程中时有改变（书柜嵌到了厚实的墙里，内窗也加装了几扇），这让原本习惯了固定蓝图的当地工匠们颇为困扰。
“The workers on the job were very resistant at first,” Ms. Steingut said. “But in the end, they were all curious about the work we were doing and eventually satisfied with the outcome.”
“这个项目的工人们一开始都非常抵触，”斯泰因戈特说。“但是到了最后，他们都对我们的工作产生了好奇心，最终对房子的效果也非常满意。”
Today, the exterior retains its Old World patina. But inside, the home is a marriage — or, should we say, a partnership — of modern finishes and original structure. The lighting is subtle, playing up the owners’ art pieces and architectural details like the enormous ceiling beams without drawing attention to itself. As Mr. Vallifuoco wrote in an e-mail, it “is hidden from view or emerges from fissures and holes in the walls and ceilings.”
现在，房子的外饰保留着古老的色泽，不过内饰则是现代装潢与古老结构间的“联姻”——或者确切地说是融合。布光非常巧妙，很好地衬托出了房主的艺术收藏品以及巨大的房梁等建筑细节，照明物本身又不显山露水。正如瓦利福科在一封电子邮件里所说的，光源“要么被隐藏在视线之外，要么嵌在墙壁、天花板的缝隙和孔洞中”。 
Not surprisingly, the house, which sleeps 12, is usually filled with an international assortment who derive joy from the arts. Many will gather there in April for the local film festival Ms. Bruscolini helps to organize. “The house is something we like to share,” she said. “Just as it was in old times.”
毫不奇怪，这套可以住下12个人的房子里，常常聚集着来自世界各地的人，屋中的艺术品给他们带来了无穷的乐趣。许多人会在四月里前来参加布鲁斯科利尼协助举办的当地电影节。“这套房子是我们乐于与人分享的一样东西，”她说，“就跟它以前的角色一样。”
How long this finished work will hold the couple’s interest is anyone’s guess. The attraction of art and design can be a fickle business.
至于这套装修一新的房子能够让这对恋人的兴趣保持多久，还是个未知数。艺术和设计的吸引力总归是变幻无常的。
Recently, Mr. Astrologo came to the sudden realization that he was over Art Deco, and he up and sold nearly all of his collection, in favor of mid-20th-century Sino-Tibetan art.
最近，阿斯特罗洛戈突然意识到自己对装饰艺术(Art Deco)已经失去了兴趣，于是卖掉了几乎所有这一风格的藏品，转而开始收集20世纪中叶的汉藏艺术品(Sino-Tibetan art)。
As for Ms. Bruscolini, after finishing the filming of her latest work, “Elementary Love” (a difficult movie, she said, in that it features prepubescent actors in all the major parts), she will move on to her next project, a comedy.
至于布鲁斯科利尼，她会在新作《青涩的爱情》(Elementary Love)拍完后（据她说，《青涩的爱情》是一部难拍的电影，因为影片所有主要部分都是由青春期的演员主演），转而开拍下一个项目——一部喜剧片。
One recent Saturday, while waiting for houseguests to arrive, she speculated about why her relationship with Mr. Astrologo works (“We spend our time together always doing very interesting things and not in front of the TV.”), and about their next collaboration. She envisions a house somewhere in the Greek Isles, she said, perfectly close to the sea.
最近的一个周六，布鲁斯科利尼在家里等待留宿的客人时，思考了她与阿斯特罗洛戈的恋情之所以能够长久的原因（“我们在一起的时候，做的都是有意思的事情，而不是傻坐在电视机前面。”），构想了两人接下来要一起做的事情。她想在希腊小岛上找一套房子，她说，靠海的地方最完美。