Italy’s highest court on Thursday definitively confirmed a prison sentence for tax fraud for Silvio Berlusconi, dealing a severe blow to Italy’s most dramatic politician. But it also called for a re-examination of a ban on his holding public office, a compromise that might stave off an imminent collapse of Italy’s left-right coalition government.
意大利最高法院于周四做出最终核准，西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)将因税务欺诈入狱，意大利最具戏剧性的政治人物由此遭遇沉重打击。不过法院同时也要求重新评估禁止他担任公职的决定，这个妥协也许可以暂时消除意大利左右翼联盟政府发生瞬间倾塌的隐忧。
The sentence the court confirmed was four years, but it was automatically reduced to one year under a law aimed at combating prison overcrowding.
法院核准的刑期为四年，但是根据一项旨在缓解监狱人满为患问题的法律，这个刑期将自动减为一年。
The decision by the Court of Cassation was the first time Mr. Berlusconi has received a definitive conviction in 20 years of tangles with Italy’s judicial system. In the other cases brought against Mr. Berlusconi over the years — which range from tax evasion to buying judges to embezzlement — he was either acquitted on appeal or the statute of limitations ran out.
最高上诉法院(Court of Cassation)的裁决是和意大利司法体系纠缠20年的贝卢斯科尼第一次得到最终定罪。这些年来指控贝卢斯科尼的案件——罪名从逃税、收买法官到贪污不一而足——不是上诉后被判无罪，就是以超过诉讼时效告终。
However, Thursday’s ruling does not automatically send Mr. Berlusconi to jail or house arrest. The same Milan appeals court that convicted the former prime minister must also formally request his arrest. Mr. Berlusconi’s lawyers could also request a suspended sentence.
然而周四的判决并不意味着，贝卢斯科尼马上就要进监狱或受软禁。为前总理定罪的那家米兰上诉法院还必须发出逮捕他的正式要求。贝卢斯科尼的律师可能还会申请缓刑。
A Senate committee must rule on whether Mr. Berlusconi must resign from public office, a procedure that could take months. Almost all lawmakers handed definitive sentences have chosen to leave Parliament of their own volition in order to avoid embarrassment.
一个参议院委员会必须就贝卢斯科尼是否一定要辞去公职做出裁决，这个程序耗时可达数月。几乎所有最终被判刑的议员都会自愿离开国会，以避免难堪。
Opposition politicians immediately called for Mr. Berlusconi to resign out of respect for a Parliament elected to uphold laws, not break them. Vito Crimi, a member of Parliament from the Five Star Movement, called the it “shameful” that Mr. Berlusconi would stay in public office. “I would expect that all his MPs call for his resignation out of respect for Parliament.”
反对派政治人士立即开始要求贝卢斯科尼辞职，以示对国会的尊重，毕竟这个民选机构是要维护法纪而不是违反它。来自五星运动(Five Star Movement)的议员维多·克里米(Vito Crimi)说，如果贝卢斯科尼继续担任公职，“那将是可耻的。我想，他手下的所有议员都会要求他辞职，以示尊重国会。”
The ruling could upend his center-right People of Liberty party, more a charismatic movement than an ideologically coherent party, and also strain the center-left Democratic Party, elements of which have never liked sharing power with their former rival.
这项裁决可能会一举推翻他的中右派自由人民党(People of Liberty)，这个党与其说是一个有统一意识形态的政党，倒不如说是个人崇拜团体，此外它也会给中左派的民主党(Democratic Party)带来波动，该党中的一些人始终不乐意和他们此前的对手分享权力。
Mr. Berlusconi is still facing trial on charges of paying for sex with the Moroccan-born Karima el Mahroug, nicknamed Ruby Heartstealer, when she was still a minor, and abusing his office to cover it up.
此外，贝卢斯科尼还面临性交易的诉讼，他被控向绰号“偷心人露比”的摩洛哥裔女子、当时尚未成年的卡莉玛·艾尔-玛罗格(Karima el-Mahroug)买春，并在事后滥用职权，以掩盖该事件。
In the case upheld Thursday, prosecutors had argued that Mr. Berlusconi and other defendants bought the rights to broadcast American movies on his networks through a series of offshore companies and falsely declared how much they paid in order to avoid taxes.
在周四裁决的案件中，检方指出贝卢斯科尼和其他被告通过一系列离岸公司为自己的电视网购买了美国电影的播放权，而后虚报了购买版权的费用以达到避税目的。
Experts had said that if the high court upheld the tax fraud sentence, Mr. Berlusconi, 76, would more likely face house arrest, considering his age.
此前，专家曾表示，如果最高法院维持税务欺诈的判决，考虑到贝卢斯科尼的76岁高龄，可能会最终采取软禁的形式。
In comments published recently on his party’s Facebook page, Mr. Berlusconi, a former prime minister, said he was prepared to go to prison if he was convicted, and would not go into exile like Bettino Craxi, Italy’s former Socialist leader, who died in exile in Tunisia after a party-finance scandal that brought down the Italian postwar political order in the early 1990s.
在最近通过自己政党的Facebook页面发布的评论中，这位前总理说，他已经做好准备，如果被定罪就会进监狱，不会选择像意大利前社会党领袖贝蒂诺·克拉克西(Bettino Craxi)那样流亡，在20世纪90年代初的一次摧垮意大利二战后政治秩序的政党-财务丑闻中，克拉克西流亡突尼斯，并在那里去世。
The case has once again brought Mr. Berlusconi to the fore of the national conversation, where he occupies far more space and airtime than Mr. Letta, the current prime minister.
本案再一次令贝卢斯科尼成为举国讨论的话题，在媒体上占据的版块和时间远比现任总理恩里科·莱塔(Enrico Letta)要多。
For days, Mr. Berlusconi’s core of loyal supporters has been up in arms, lambasting the Italian judiciary for what it sees as its attacks on him, and some members of Parliament from his People of Liberty party have hinted that they would leave the government if he was convicted.
连日来，贝卢斯科尼的最忠诚拥趸一直在振臂高呼，斥责意大利司法系统是在对他进行个人攻击，一些来自他的自由人民党的议员已经暗示，如果他被定罪就会离开政府。
Others seem to be enjoying the spectacle. A verdict that was upheld would be “the death of democracy,” Daniela Santanchè, a former government official best known for her frequent television appearances defending Mr. Berlusconi, wrote on Twitter.
还有一些人则似乎是在享受贝卢斯科尼出的洋相。因为经常上电视为贝卢斯科尼作辩护而出名的前政府官员达涅拉·桑坦凯(Daniela Santanchè)在Twitter上发文说，维持原判将是“民主之殇”。
Many, even on Mr. Berlusconi’s own legal team, said they believed the court would uphold the sentence in some form.
很多人都认为法庭会以某种形式维持原判，连贝卢斯科尼自己的法律团队里都有这样的看法。
The dozens of trials involving Mr. Berlusconi have often caused political turmoil. In July, members of Mr. Berlusconi’s party stormed out of Parliament and blocked parliamentary activities for a day after the court set the hearing for the tax fraud case earlier than expected.
牵涉到贝卢斯科尼的这些诉讼经常会引发政治动荡。7月，在法院决定提前举行税务欺诈案听证后，自由人民党成员曾冲出国会，封阻了整整一天的国会活动。