FRANKFURT, Germany — The Italian economy shrank in the second quarter, according to an official estimate on Wednesday, taking economists by surprise and provoking concern that violence in Ukraine and tension with Russia could be pushing the broader eurozone back into recession.
德国法兰克福——周三，根据意大利公布的官方估算数据，该国经济第二季度出现下滑。这让经济师们感到意外，也令人担心，乌克兰的暴力冲突以及欧洲与俄罗斯的紧张关系可能会促使更多欧元区国家重新陷入衰退。
Italy’s gross domestic product contracted 0.2 percent from April through June, compared with the first quarter of 2014, Istat, the Italian statistics office, said in a preliminary estimate. It was the second quarterly decline in a row for Italy, meeting the most common definition of a recession. In the first quarter, output shrank 0.1 percent compared with the previous quarter.
意大利统计局(Istat)公布的初步统计结果显示，与2014年第一季度相比，意大利4月到6月的国内生产总值收缩了0.2%。这是意大利经济连续第二个季度出现下滑，因而符合最常见的经济衰退定义。第一季度，意大利的GDP环比收缩了0.1%。
The decline dashed hopes that Italy, the third-largest eurozone economy after Germany and France, was finally emerging from a decade of stagnation.
意大利是欧元区仅次于德国和法国的第三大经济体。人们原本希望它终于即将摆脱已持续了10年之久的经济停滞，但二季度的下滑打破了这种希望。
And it may be one of the first concrete signs of how tension with Russia is hurting the European economy, analysts said. Along with a report of a sharp decline in German factory orders, the data raised new questions about the health of the 18-country eurozone as a whole. Only three of the 18 members of the eurozone — Cyprus, Finland and Greece — had reported two quarters in a row of negative output at the end of March. But the number of countries in recession is bound to increase during the coming week as more of them report second-quarter growth.
分析人士称，这或许是表明欧洲与俄罗斯的紧张关系会损害经济的首个具体迹象。另有报道称，德国的工厂订单额急剧下降。在这种情况下，两国的数据让人们对有18个成员国的欧元区的整体健康提出了新的疑问。3月底，欧元区的18个成员国中，只有三个国家——塞浦路斯、芬兰和希腊——通报的数据显示，已连续两个季度出现负增长。但在未来一周里，随着更多国家发布第二季度的经济增长数据，出现衰退的国家必然会增多。
The economic data and news that Russia was massing troops and military equipment on the Ukrainian border caused stock prices to fall across Europe on Wednesday. Italy’s main stock index fell more than 2 percent and the euro also slipped to a nine-month low against the dollar, down to $1.334.
周三，以上经济数据，以及俄罗斯在乌克兰边境囤积部队和军事装备的新闻促使欧洲股市全线下跌。意大利的主要股指下挫了逾2%，欧元兑美元的汇率也降到了9个月以来的最低点——每欧元兑换1.334美元（约合8.215元人民币）。
Analysts surmised that the strained relations with Russia as well as turmoil in the Middle East had undercut demand for Italian exports, in particular fashion and other luxury goods.
分析人士推测，由于欧洲与俄罗斯关系紧张，再加上中东地区局势动荡，减少了对意大利出口商品的需求，尤其是在时装等奢侈品领域。
“Russia is important for Italian exports, as is the Middle East,” said Martin Lueck, an economist at UBS in Frankfurt. “There must have been an impact.”
“对于意大利出口而言，俄罗斯很重要，中东也是，”瑞银集团(UBS)驻法兰克福的经济师马丁·吕克(Martin Lueck)说。“影响肯定是有的。”
Mr. Lueck noted that the economic data published on Wednesday covered a period before the downing of a Malaysia Airlines passenger jet over eastern Ukraine, which has drastically escalated tensions. “I definitely expect that things will get worse,” he said.
吕克指出，周三发布的经济数据包括的时段在马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的一架客机在乌克兰东部被击落之前，而此事使对立程度大幅升级。“我确定，情况肯定会变得更加糟糕，”他说。
In an example of how the Ukraine turmoil could further impinge on the European economy, President Vladimir Putin of Russia on Wednesday ordered limits on agricultural imports from countries imposing sanctions on Russia — a measure aimed at the European Union and the United States.
另一件事也说明了乌克兰的动荡会对欧洲经济产生进一步冲击。周三，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)下令，限制从对该国实施经济制裁的国家进口农产品——这项举措针对的是欧盟和美国。
The move threatens a fast-growing market for European farmers. The European Union exported agricultural goods worth 11.8 billion euros, or $15.8 billion, to Russia last year, and sales have been rising at a rate of almost 15 percent a year.
此举会威胁到欧洲农产品的一个增长迅速的市场。去年，欧盟向俄罗斯出口了价值118亿欧元（约合973亿元人民币）的农产品，而且其销售额在以大概15%的年增长率攀升。
The eurozone has been growing since last year, but that growth has been spotty and vulnerable to a shock, like the kind caused by the fighting in Ukraine as well as by sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union on Russia.
从去年开始，欧元区的经济呈现增长，但是这种增长极不稳定，而且很容易受到外部震荡的影响，比如乌克兰的战事，以及美国和欧盟对俄罗斯实施的制裁。
The currency area has still not returned to the same levels of employment and economic output it had before the financial crisis began in 2008. Some economists argue that the region is already well into a so-called lost decade.
欧元区的就业率和经济产出仍未达到2008年金融危机开始前的水平。有些经济学家认为，欧元区已经深陷所谓的“失落的10年”。
During the first quarter, economies in seven of the 18 eurozone countries shrank while France had zero growth. The eurozone as a whole grew only 0.2 percent from the previous quarter, according to Eurostat, the European Union statistics agency.
第一季度，18个欧元区国家中，有7个国家的经济出现负增长，而法国则为零增长。根据欧洲统计局(Eurostat)提供的数据，与前一季度相比，欧元区的经济整体只增长了0.2%。
Separately, the German Federal Statistical Office reported on Wednesday that new industrial orders in Germany fell 3.2 percent in June compared with May. Analysts had expected orders to increase. Germany has the largest economy in Europe and is a crucial market for other eurozone countries, so any slowdown there is ominous for the rest of the Continent.
德国联邦统计局(German Federal Statistical Office)周三通报，与5月相比，德国6月的新增工业订单额下降了3.2%。此前，分析师们曾预计订单会增加。德国是欧洲最大的经济体，也是其他欧元区国家的重要市场。所以，一旦德国经济放缓，就会波及欧洲大陆其他国家。
The discouraging economic figures are also putting pressure on the European Central Bank, which is to hold its monthly news conference on Thursday in Frankfurt. However, the central bank, which cut its benchmark interest rate to a low of 0.15 percent in June, is not expected to take further action this month.
这些令人失望的经济数据也给欧洲央行(European Central Bank)带来了压力。它将于周四在法兰克福召开本月的新闻发布会。不过，欧洲央行已于6月将基准利率降到了0.15%的低水平，本月不太可能采取进一步举措。
The new data from Italy and Germany were causing some economists on Wednesday to question previous forecasts for eurozone G.D.P. in the second quarter. The European Union statistics agency is scheduled to publish an estimate of quarterly growth on Aug. 14.
周三，意大利和德国的新数据促使一些经济师对此前关于欧元区第二季度GDP的预测产生了疑问。按计划，欧洲统计局将在8月14日发布关于季度增长的估算数据。
“The economy in the eurozone as a whole probably also expanded only moderately in Q2,” Marco Wagner, an economist at Commerzbank, wrote in a note to investors.
德国商业银行(Commerzbank)的经济师马尔科·瓦格纳(Marco Wagner)在给投资者的报告中写道，“第二季度，欧元区的整体经济水平很可能只会出现略微增长。”
For Italy, the deteriorating economy puts greater pressure on Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who less than a week ago promised not to impose any more government budget cuts and to invest in improving the country’s roads and other infrastructure. Such promises will be difficult to keep if slower growth, which usually translates into higher unemployment and lower corporate profits, limits tax receipts.
对于意大利而言，恶化的经济状况使总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)承受更大的压力。不到一周前，他还承诺不会进一步削减政府预算，并且会对改善意大利的道路状况和其他基础设施进行投资。如果经济放缓，往往就会出现失业率升高、企业利润降低的状况，从而限制税收，那么这些承诺就会难以兑现。
A slower economy also endangers Italy’s ability to comply with eurozone rules on budget deficits. Italy’s 2.1 trillion euro government debt equals 136 percent of its annual gross domestic product, the second-highest debt ratio in the eurozone, after Greece.
放缓的经济增长也将损害意大利遵守欧元区预算赤字规定的能力。意大利2.1万亿欧元的政府债务相当于其年度GDP的136%。这一负债比率在欧元区中仅次于希腊。