JAKARTA, Indonesia — The scene is horrifyingly familiar. Islamic State soldiers march a line of prisoners to a riverbank, shoot them one by one and dump their bodies over a blood-soaked dock into the water.
印度尼西亚雅加达——这一幕既触目惊心又毫不陌生。伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的武装分子把一列囚犯带到河岸逐一枪决，之后把尸体从满地鲜血的码头抛下水里。
But instead of the celebratory music and words of praise expected in a jihadi video, the soundtrack features the former Indonesian president, Abdurrahman Wahid, singing a Javanese mystical poem: “Many who memorize the Quran and Hadith love to condemn others as infidels while ignoring their own infidelity to God, their hearts and minds still mired in filth.”
但是此处并没有响起圣战视频中的那种一贯的庆祝音乐和赞颂之词，而是印度尼西亚前总统阿卜杜拉赫曼·瓦希德(Abdurrahman Wahid)的吟唱声，内容是一首爪哇语的神秘诗篇：“许多背诵《古兰经》和《圣训》的人都喜欢斥责其他人为异教徒，却忽略了自己对真主的背弃，他们的心灵和思想仍深陷于污秽之中。”
That powerful scene is one of many in a 90-minute film that amounts to a relentless, religious repudiation of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, and the opening salvo in a global campaign by the world's largest Muslim group to challenge its ideology head-on.
这有力的一幕是一部片长90分钟的电影的众多场景之一。这部影片代表着从宗教角度对伊斯兰国（又称ISIS）的无情否定，也标志着世界上最大的穆斯林群体正面挑战伊斯兰国意识形态的全球宣传攻势正式打响。
The challenge, perhaps surprisingly, comes from Indonesia, which has the world's largest Muslim population but which lies thousands of miles away from the Islamic State's base in the Middle East.
也许会令人意外的是，挑战是由印尼发起的。这是世界上穆斯林人口最多的国家，但远在位于中东的伊斯兰国数千英里之外。
“The spread of a shallow understanding of Islam renders this situation critical, as highly vocal elements within the Muslim population at large — extremist groups — justify their harsh and often savage behavior by claiming to act in accord with God's commands, although they are grievously mistaken,” said A. Mustofa Bisri, the spiritual leader of the group Nahdlatul Ulama, an Indonesian Muslim organization that claims more than 50 million members.
“对伊斯兰教的肤浅认知的扩散使得情况变得严峻起来，因为穆斯林总体人口中声音特别大的群体——极端组织——经常做出残酷而野蛮的行为，并声称是按真主的旨意行事来正当化这种行为，但他们大错特错了，”印尼宗教学者复兴会（Nahdlatul Ulama，简称伊联）的精神领袖穆斯塔法·比斯利(A. Mustofa Bisri)说。伊联是印尼的一家穆斯林团体，有超过5000万名会员。
“According to the Sunni view of Islam,” he said, “every aspect and expression of religion should be imbued with love and compassion, and foster the perfection of human nature.”
“根据伊斯兰教逊尼派的看法，”他说，“宗教的每个方面、每次表达都应该充满着爱心和同情心，并促使人性走向完善。”
This message of tolerance is at the heart of the group's campaign against jihadism, which will be carried out online, and in hotel conference rooms and convention centers from North America to Europe to Asia. The film was released Thursday at the start of a three-day congress by the organization's youth wing in the Central Java city of Yogyakarta.
这种宽容思想是伊联反对圣战主义的宣传活动的核心，而这种思想会透过网络，在北美、欧洲和亚洲的酒店会议室和会议中心得到传播。上周四，在爪哇中部城市日惹，电影在该组织青年团为期三天的大会的开幕式上首映。
As world leaders call for Muslims to take the lead in the ideological battle against a growing and increasingly violent offshoot of their own religion, analysts say the group's campaign is a welcome antidote to jihadism.
世界各国的领袖正呼吁穆斯林在意识形态斗争中带头，对抗其规模壮大、暴力色彩日趋严重的宗教分支。分析人士称，伊联发起的宣传活动可以作为对抗圣战主义的一种手段。
“I see the counternarrative as the only way that Western governments can deal with the ISIS propaganda, but there's no strategy right now,” said Nico Prucha, a research fellow at King's College London, who analyzes the Islamic State's Arab-language online propaganda.
“我认为‘反叙事’是西方国家政府对抗ISIS宣传的唯一途径，但目前仍未有相关策略，”伦敦国王学院(King’s College London)的研究员尼科·普鲁哈(Nico Prucha)说。他在分析伊斯兰国在网上进行的阿拉伯语宣传。
And Western leaders often lack credibility with those most susceptible to jihad's allure. “They don't speak Arabic or have never lived in the Muslim world,” Prucha said.
西方国家领导人往往不受最容易被圣战吸引的那些人的信任。“他们不会说阿拉伯语，也从未在穆斯林世界里生活过，”普鲁哈说。
The campaign by Nahdlatul Ulama, known as N.U., for a liberal, pluralistic Islam also comes at a time when Islam is at war with itself over central theological questions of how the faith is defined in the modern era.
伊联发起的宣传活动追求的是自由多元的伊斯兰教。这一活动开展的时机亦正值伊斯兰教因核心神学问题而发生内部冲突，各方争论伊斯兰信仰在现代的定义。
In a way, it should not be surprising that this message comes from Indonesia, the home of Islam Nusantara, widely seen as one of the most progressive Islamic movements in the world. The movement — its name is Indonesian for “East Indies Islam” — dates back more than 500 years and promotes a spiritual interpretation of Islam that stresses nonviolence, inclusiveness and acceptance of other religions.
在某种程度上，这样的讯息来自印尼并不奇怪。这里是“群岛伊斯兰”(Islam Nusantara)的发源地，而它被广泛视为世界上最具进步理念的伊斯兰运动。该运动的印尼语名称代表“东印度群岛伊斯兰”，开始时间可追溯到500多年前，推广了一种强调非暴力、包容和接纳其他宗教的伊斯兰教精神。
A prevention center based in Indonesia, expected to be operational by the end of the year, will train male and female Arabic-speaking students to engage with jihadi ideology and messaging under the guidance of N.U. theologians who are consulting Western academia.
一所总部设在印尼的预防中心预计将于今年年底开始运作。中心将培训讲阿拉伯语的男女学生去学习如何与圣战思想和讯息打交道。这些培训会在咨询西方学术界的伊联宗教学者的指导下进行。
The film, “Rahmat Islam Nusantara” (The Divine Grace of East Indies Islam), has been translated into English and Arabic for global distribution, including online. The film explores Islam's arrival and evolution in Indonesia, and includes interviews with Indonesian Islamic scholars.
这部名为《群岛伊斯兰的圣恩》(Rahmat Islam Nusantara)的电影已翻译成英文和阿拉伯文分销全球，包括在线上。影片探讨了伊斯兰教在印尼的到来和发展，也包括了印尼伊斯兰学者的访谈。
In scene after scene, they challenge and denounce the Islamic State's interpretations of the Quran and the Hadith, the book of the Prophet Muhammad's teachings, as factually wrong and perverse.
一幕又一幕，他们挑战和谴责伊斯兰国对《古兰经》和《圣训》（先知穆罕默德的言行录）的诠释，认为它们罔顾事实，错漏百出。
The Islamic State's theology, rooted in the fundamentalist Wahhabi movement, takes its cues from medieval Islamic jurisprudence, where slavery and execution of prisoners was accepted. The filmmakers accept the legitimacy of those positions for the time but argue that Islamic law needs to be updated to 21st-century norms.
伊斯兰国的宗教理论，植根于原教旨主义瓦哈比(Wahhabi)运动，采取来自中世纪的伊斯兰教法。这种伊斯兰教法认同奴隶制和处决囚犯。片子的制作人员接受这些行为于当时的合法性，但认为伊斯兰法条需要以21世纪的准则进行更新。
Other sects and Muslim leaders have made this argument before. And non-Arab countries like Indonesia tend to have less influence on the practice of Islam, especially in the Middle East.
其他一些教派和穆斯林领导人亦曾提出过这种说法。不过，印尼这样的非阿拉伯国家往往对伊斯兰教的实践影响较小，尤其是在中东地区。
“The problem with Middle East Islam is they have what I call religious racism,” said Azyumardi Azra, an Islamic scholar and former rector of the State Islamic University in Jakarta. “They feel that only the Arabs are real Muslims and the others are not.”
“中东伊斯兰教的问题是，他们有我称为的‘宗教种族主义’的问题，”伊斯兰学者、雅加达国立伊斯兰大学(State Islamic University)前任校长艾祖玛迪·阿兹拉(Azyumardi Azra)说。“他们觉得，只有阿拉伯人才是真正的穆斯林，而其他人都不是。”
Saudi Arabia, the birthplace of Islam and the main source of financial support for Wahhabism worldwide, has had more success in imposing its interpretation and has even made inroads in Indonesia. Analysts say a steady flow of money from Persian Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar, supports an active and growing Wahhabist movement here.
沙特阿拉伯是伊斯兰教的发祥地和世界各地瓦哈比教派资金的主要来源。它在强加宗教诠释方面有更大的成功，甚至在印度尼西亚取得了进展。分析人士认为，从波斯湾国家，包括沙特阿拉伯和卡塔尔等地的资金在源源不断地支持在印尼的瓦哈比运动，使之活跃发展、不断扩张。
There are reservations here about the N.U. going global, rather than first tackling violent extremism at home. Indonesia has suffered several deadly terrorist attacks by Islamic militants in recent years that have killed hundreds, including bombings on the resort island of Bali in 2002 and 2005, and at five-star international hotels in Jakarta in 2003 and 2009.
有人对伊联不先应对国内的暴力极端主义却走向全球持保留意见。印尼在最近几年遭受了伊斯兰激进分子的多次流血恐怖袭击，导致数百人丧生，其中包括2002年和2005年在度假胜地巴厘岛的爆炸案，及2003年和2009年在雅加达国际五星级酒店的爆炸案。
The best known of the Indonesian jihadi groups, Jemaah Islamiyah, a onetime Southeast Asian branch of al-Qaida, has been crushed, but splinter groups still exist, as well as other militant Muslim groups like the Islamic Defenders Front, which occasionally smash up bars and attack religious minorities and their houses of worship.
名声最大的印尼圣战组织叫做伊斯兰祈祷团(Jemaah Islamiyah)，曾是基地组织在东南亚的分部。虽然它已被粉碎，但漏网之鱼仍然存在，还有其他一些激进的穆斯林团体，如伊斯兰捍卫者阵线(Islamic Defenders Front)。该组织不时会捣毁酒吧，攻击宗教少数群体及他们进行祈祷的地方。
Bonar Tigor Naipospos, vice chairman for the executive board of the Setara Institute for Democracy and Peace in Jakarta, said N.U.'s campaign applied equally to local radicals.
雅加达塞塔拉民主和平学会(Setara Institute for Democracy and Peace)执行委员会副主席博纳·季戈·尼泊浦斯(Bonar Tigor Naipospos)称，伊联的宣传活动同样适用于当地的激进分子。
“They want to show to Indonesian society, `Look, we are Islamic and we have universal values, but we also respect local cultures,”' he said. “We are not like Islam in the Middle East.”
“他们想展现给印尼社会，‘看，我们信伊斯兰教，我们有普世价值，但我们也尊重当地文化，’”他说。“我们不像在中东地区的伊斯兰教。”
Others say the international public discourse has to start somewhere, even if it is thousands of miles away from Syria and Iraq.
还有人说，必须在某个地方开启这方面的国际公共辩论，哪怕是从距离叙利亚和伊拉克千山万水的地方起步。