COLORADO SPRINGS—Joining the Navy was one of the best decisions Alec Kerry said she ever made. The other was coming out as transgender.
科罗拉多科泉市——亚历克·克里(Alec Kerry)说，加入海军是她做过的最好的决定之一。另一个是宣布自己是跨性别者。
“The Navy taught me how people can come together and work hard to achieve something bigger than themselves,” said Petty Officer Kerry, 24, who is training to operate nuclear reactors. “Strangely enough, I think what the Navy taught us about integrity was what gave me the courage to come out. I had to be honest about who I was with myself and the people I served with.”
“海军教会了我，人们如何能走到一起，共同努力实现比他们自己更大的事业，”24岁的海军士官克里说，她正在接受操控核反应堆的训练。“奇怪的是，我觉得正是海军教给我的关于正直的一课，给了我公开身份的勇气。我必须诚实地让自己和跟我一起服役的人知道我是什么样的人。”
Like thousands of other transgender veterans and members of the military, she grappled with a mix of anger, sadness and fear on Wednesday after President Trump tweeted that the United States military would no longer “accept or allow” transgender people to serve — a surprise move that came a year after the Obama administration allowed transgender troops to serve openly.
和其他数以千计的跨性别老兵以及军队成员一样，在特朗普总统周三发表推文，表示美国军队将不再“接受或允许”跨性别人士服役——一个在奥巴马政府允许跨性别军人公开服役的一年后采取的意外之举——之后，她陷入了一种愤怒、悲伤和恐惧交织的情绪。
Some transgender troops were left to wonder if they would face a quick discharge from the military or if scheduled medical appointments would be canceled. And nearly all expressed dismay at what they saw as a misguided action that could purge the military of untold numbers of highly skilled and dedicated service members and bring back an era when many troops lived in secrecy and shame.
一些跨性别军人猜测他们是不是很快就会被开除出军队，或者已经预约好的医疗诊断是否会被取消。几乎所有人都对他们眼中的这个错误举措表示沮丧，这个决定可能会让军队失去不计其数技术精湛、有奉献精神的成员，并恢复到那个让很多军人生活在秘密与羞耻中的时代。
“People are fearful,” said Laila Ireland, who was an Army combat medic for 13 years before transitioning to a woman and becoming the membership director for Sparta, an L.G.B.T. military group with more than 500 active-duty members. “All morning I’ve been telling them, continue to exceed the expectations, show what you are worth.”
“人们感到害怕，”莱拉·爱尔兰(Laila Ireland)说，她曾担任陆军战斗医生13年，后来转变成女性，并成为拥有500名现役成员的LGBT军队团体斯巴达(Sparta)的会员主任。“整个早上我都在告诉他们，要继续超出人们的期待，展示你们的价值。”
Her husband, Air Force Staff Sgt. Logan Ireland, who is also transgender, could not be reached because he was in a combat leadership course, but said in a text message from the field, “I would love for my President to meet me,” adding that he would like to tell him about all the “honorably serving transgender military members that are fighting right now for their liberties and for their country.”
她的丈夫，同为跨性别者的空军上士罗根·爱尔兰(Logan Ireland)未能被联系上，因为他当时在参加一门战斗领导课程，但他从战场发来短信说，“我希望我的总统能来见见我，”并补充说他想要把所有那些“光荣服役的、此刻正在为他们的自由和他们的国家战斗的跨性别士兵们”告诉特朗普。
Since the Obama administration lifted the ban on transgender service members, public opinion has been mixed. A poll conducted by Rasmussen Reports in June found that more than half of those surveyed believed that having transgender people serve openly in the military was good for the military, or would have no impact.
自从奥巴马政府取消了对跨性别人士的服役禁令，公众意见一直不一。拉斯穆森报告(Rasmussen Reports)在六月进行的民调显示，有超过半数参与调查的人相信，允许跨性别人士公开在军队服役是对军队有利的，或对军队并没有影响。
But many conservatives portrayed transgender service members as people who undermined the military’s fighting capability, and they hailed the announcement.
但许多保守派人士将跨性别服役人员描绘成会危害军队作战能力的人，他们对这个消息表示欢迎。
Tony Perkins, a Marine veteran who is now president of the Family Research Council, a conservative advocacy group, issued a statement praising Mr. Trump “for keeping his promise to return to military priorities — and not continue the social experimentation of the Obama era that has crippled our nation’s military.”
现任保守派倡导团体家庭研究委员会(Family Research Council)主席托尼·帕金斯(Tony Perkins)是一名海军退役军人，他发表声明称赞特朗普，说他“恪守了恢复军事优先的承诺，而不是继续奥巴马时代削弱我们国家军队实力的社会试验。”
On Capitol Hill, Representative Vicky Hartzler had recently offered an amendment that would have barred the military from paying for sex reassignment surgery. In a statement on Wednesday, Ms. Hartzler praised Mr. Trump for taking “decisive action.”
在国会山，众议员维姬·哈茨勒(Vicky Hartzler)最近提出了一项修正案：禁止军队为变性手术付钱。她在周三发表声明，赞扬特朗普采取了“果断的行动”。
“With the challenges we are facing across the globe, we are asking the American people to invest their hard-earned money in national defense,” the statement said. “Each dollar needs to be spent to address threats facing our nation.”
“我们面对着来自全球的挑战，恳请美国人民将辛苦赚来的钱投入到国防建设上，”声明称。“每一美元都需要花在应对我们国家面临的威胁上。”
Transgender troops pushed back hard on arguments about medical costs, noting that the estimated $2.4 million to $8.4 million a year it would cost for medical care was a fraction of the $41 million the Department of Defense spent on Viagra in 2014.
跨性别军人激烈驳斥了有关医疗开销的论点，提出2014年国防部购买“伟哥”的开销是4100万美元，相比之下，在医疗保健方面每年240万至840万美元的预估开销微乎其微。
One National Guard member named Mac, who didn’t want to give his full name because he now fears being discharged, worried that the military could spend millions more on investigations to ferret out closeted transgender troops, and in the process lose career troops the military has invested in heavily.
其中一名叫迈克(Mac)的国民警卫队成员担心军方可能会增加数百万的开销，以查出没有公开身份的变性军人，在这个过程中可能会失去军方曾投入了大量资金的职业军人。因为担心会被解职，他不愿透露全名。
“The government has invested hundreds of thousand of dollars into my training and my skill set. That’s not easy to replace,” he said.
“政府在我的训练和培养我的技能方面投入了数十万美元。那是难以替代的，”他说。