Does anybody else have the sense that Donald Trump is slipping off the rails? His speeches have always had a rambling, free association quality, but a couple of the recent ones have, as the Republican political consultant Mike Murphy put it, passed from the category of rant to the category of full on “drunk wedding toast.”
有没有人觉得，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在丧失理智？他的演讲一向以漫无目的、东拉西扯为特色，但最近的几场演讲就如共和党政治策略师迈克·墨菲(Mike Murphy)所言，已经超出了夸夸其谈的范畴，根本就是“醉醺醺的祝酒词”。
Trump’s verbal style has always been distinct. He doesn’t really speak in sentences or paragraphs. His speeches are punctuated by five- or six-word jabs that are sort of strung together by connections that can only be understood through chaos theory: “They want the wall … I dominated with the evangelicals … I won in a landslide … We can’t be the stupid people anymore.”
特朗普的语言特色一直都很鲜明。他其实不太成句或成段地说话。他在演讲中常常突然一下撂出五六个词，它们之间的关联只能借助混沌理论来理解：“They want the wall（他们要墙）……I dominated with the evangelicals（我在福音派占优）……I won in a landslide（我压倒性获胜）……We can’t be the stupid people anymore（我们再也不能当蠢人了）。”
Occasionally Trump will attempt a sentence longer than eight words, but no matter what subject he starts the sentence with, by the end he has been pulled over to the subject of himself. Here’s an example from the Mike Pence announcement speech: “So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at Indiana, and I won Indiana big.” There’s sort of a gravitational narcissistic pull that takes command whenever he attempts to utter a compound thought.
偶尔，特朗普会试着说出长度超过八个单词的句子，但不论句子开头的主题是什么，他最终都会把主题变成他自己。以他宣布选中迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)作为竞选搭档为例：“因此我选择迈克的主要理由是我看重印第安纳州，而且我在印第安纳州大获全胜。”每当他试着说出一个包含多重意思的想法时，某种无法抗拒的自恋就会占据上风，影响他的言辞。
Trump has also always been a little engine fueled by wounded pride. For example, writing in BuzzFeed, McKay Coppins recalls the fusillade of abuse he received from Trump after writing an unflattering profile (he called Mar-a-Lago a “nice, if slightly dated, hotel”).
特朗普还是一台以受伤的自尊为燃料的小小发动机。例如，麦凯·科潘斯(McKay Coppins)在BuzzFeed网站上回忆说，由于他的那篇特朗普特稿不太正面（他说马阿拉歌庄园[Mar-a-Lago]是一家不错的酒店，尽管有点过时），特朗普便奉上了一大串恶言恶语。
Trump was so inflamed he tweeted retaliation at Coppins several times a day and at odd hours, calling him a “dishonest slob” and “true garbage with no credibility.” The attacks went on impressively for over two years, which must rank Coppins in the top 100,000 on the list of people Donald Trump resents.
特朗普非常愤怒，每天都要在奇怪的时间发好几条推文报复科潘斯，说他是“不诚实的懒虫”和“真正的垃圾，没有信誉可言”。这样的攻击整整持续了两年，让人肃然起敬，这样的程度足以让科潘斯跻身唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)深恶痛绝的前10万个人之列。
Over the past few weeks these longstanding Trump patterns have gone into hyperdrive. This is a unique moment in American political history in which the mental stability of one of the major party nominees is the dominating subject of conversation.
过去几个星期里，特朗普长期以来的这些语言特色得到了更加淋漓尽致的体现。这是美国政治史上独一无二的时刻：一个主要政党的提名人是否有稳定的精神状态竟然成了街谈巷议的话题。
Everybody is telling Trump to ratchet it down and be more sober, but at a rally near Cincinnati this month and in his Pence announcement speech on Saturday, Trump launched his verbal rocket ship straight through the stratosphere, and it landed somewhere on the dark side of Planet Debbie.
所有人都在说特朗普应该降低火力，变得更冷静一些，但是在本月于辛辛那提州附近举行的一场集会活动，以及上周六宣布彭斯为其竞选搭档的演讲中，特朗普再度发射了言辞火箭，它直接射穿云层，落到了黛比行星(Planet Debbie)的某个黑暗角落。
The Pence announcement was truly the strangest vice-presidential unveiling in recent political history. Ricocheting around the verbal wilds for more than twice as long as the man he was introducing, Trump even refused to remain onstage and gaze on admiringly as Pence flattered him. It was like watching a guy lose interest in a wedding when the bride appears.
特朗普宣布彭斯为竞选搭档的活动，真的是美国近代政治史上最奇怪的一次揭晓副总统人选的仪式。特朗普跑题大放厥词的时间是他介绍彭斯的时间的两倍都不止。连彭斯恭维他的时候，他都拒绝留在台上，用赞赏的眼光专注地看着对方。那场面就像是看一个新郎在新娘上场时对婚礼丧失了兴趣。
The structure of his mental perambulations also seems to have changed. Formerly, as I said, his speeches had a random, free-form quality. But on Saturday his remarks had a distinct through line, anchored by the talking points his campaign had written down on pieces of paper. But Trump could not keep his attention focused on this through line — since the subject was someone else — so every 30 seconds or so he would shoot off on a resentment-filled bragging loop.
他的思维漫游的路线似乎也发生了变化。就像我前面讲过的，以前他的演讲一向漫无目的、东拉西扯。但是在上周六，他的演讲有着一条清晰的直线，固定于他的竞选团队之前写在纸上的几个谈话要点。但是，特朗普无法将注意力保持在这条直线上——因为这个话题是有关别人的——所以大约每隔30秒，他就会抛出一段充满愤慨情绪的夸夸其谈。
If you had to do a rough diagram of the Trump remarks it would be something like this: Pence … I was right about Iraq … Pence … Hillary Clinton is a crooked liar … I was right about “Brexit” … Pence … Hillary Clintons ads are filled with lies … We’re going to bring back the coal industry … Christians love me … Pence … I talk to statisticians … Pence is good looking … My hotel in Washington is really coming along fantastically … Pence.
如果必须画一张记录特朗普言论的草图，它大概是这个样子：彭斯……我在伊拉克问题上的看法是对的……彭斯……希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)是个奸诈的骗子……彭斯……我在“脱欧”问题上的看法是对的……彭斯……希拉里·克林顿满嘴谎言……我们会让煤炭业重新发展起来……基督徒喜欢我……彭斯……我讲话是有统计依据的……彭斯长得不错……我在华盛顿的酒店真的越来越棒……彭斯。
Donald Trump is in his moment of greatest triumph, but he seems more resentful and embattled than ever. Most political conventions are happy coronations, but this one may come to feel like the Alamo of aggrieved counterattacks.
唐纳德·特朗普处在自己最成功的时刻，但他看起来似乎比过去任何时候都更加充满愤恨，更身陷重围。政党大会大多是场面愉快的加冕礼，但这次的场面会让人感觉像是饱含怨愤的阿拉莫反击战。
It’s hard to know exactly what is going on in that brain, but science lends a clue. Psychologists wonder if narcissists are defined by extremely high self-esteem or by extremely low self-esteem that they are trying to mask. The current consensus seems to be that they are marked by unstable self-esteem. Their self-confidence can be both high and fragile, so they perceive ego threat all around.
很难搞清楚那个人的脑子里到底在想什么，不过科学研究为我们提供了一个线索。心理学家在考虑，孤芳自赏者可否被看作是极力掩饰自己极端的自负或自卑。目前的共识似乎是，自我感知不稳定是这类人的一大特征。他们的自信心很强，同时又非常脆弱，所以他们会时时处处感受到对自己自尊的威胁。
Maybe as Trump has gotten more successful his estimation of what sort of adoration he deserves has increased while the outside criticism has gotten more pronounced. This combination is bound to leave his ego threat sensors permanently inflamed. So even if Candidate Trump is told to make a normal political point, Inner Boy Trump will hijack the microphone for another bout of resentful boasting.
或许，随着特朗普获得更大的成功，他对自己值得拥有何种程度的尊崇的评估有所提高，但外界对他的批评也越来强烈。二者结合，势必让他的自尊威胁感应器持续处在强感应状态。所以即便候选人特朗普被告诫要发表正常的政治言论，但内里的男孩特朗普还是会抢过麦克风，再次发出充满怨愤情绪的吹嘘。
Suddenly the global climate favors a Trump candidacy. Some forms of disorder — like a financial crisis — send voters for the calm supple thinker. But other forms of disorder — blood in the streets — send them scurrying for the brutal strongman.
突然之前，国际局势开始有利于特朗普当选总统候选人。某些形式的混乱——比如一场金融危机——会让选民支持头脑冷静而不失灵活的思考者。但其他形式的混乱——街头流血事件——则令他们急忙转向残暴的铁腕人物。
If the string of horrific events continues, Trump could win the presidency. And he could win it even though he has less and less control over himself.
如果继续发生连串的恐怖事件，特朗普可能会赢得总统职位。尽管他对自己的掌控度越来越低，但他会赢得大选。