LONDON — Nowhere is the crisis of modernity felt more acutely than in France where for a quarter-century now globalization has brought moroseness and mistrust on an epic scale. Uneasy with capitalism, uncomfortable with flexibility, unpersuaded by the so-called Anglo-Saxon model, France has retreated into its rancor. Immigrants and openness have constituted threat more than possibility.
伦敦——现代性的危机在法国显得格外深切，经过四分之一个世纪的全球化，这里的阴郁和犹疑气息已经空前浓重。对资本主义的忧虑，对变通的不安，对所谓盎格鲁-撒克逊模式的不信任，让法国已经完全沉浸在自己的怨恨里。移民和开放成为威胁而非机遇。
Even its glorious cuisine seems somehow static, too heavy for its times, unable to adapt, short on Spanish inventiveness, locked in the past. Its wines, the best in the world by some distance, have proved short on narrative, that core ingredient of modern marketing. Its world-class private companies get swept beneath the relentless wave of functionaries’ complaints. Its president, once the near regal embodiment of French glory, is now an everyday sort of figure, battling the banal.
连它的灿烂美食文化都有些停滞不前了，对现在这个时代来说，它过于笨重，无法适应变化，缺乏西班牙菜的创意，被困在了过去。它的葡萄酒是全世界最好的，遥遥领先，但现在看来缺乏故事，而那是现代营销的核心元素。它的世界级私营公司，被笼罩在官僚们没完没了的抱怨之下。它的总统曾经是帝王般的法兰西荣光之化身，如今成了个寻常角色，在一些平庸的事情上较劲。
Rien ne va plus, say the French, or nothing works anymore. But the English rendering is anemic — stripped of a fathomless Gallic grumpiness that is the expression of a strange sense of defeat. Of course it is not true. A lot works very well in France. But the nation is dyspeptic. The glass is always half-empty.
法国人说，rien ne va plus，意思是什么都不对头了。但这不是个传神的翻译——它去掉了一种难以言传的法式暴躁情绪，气急败坏的同时，又带着点古怪的挫败感。法国有很多东西还是正常的。但这个国家患了消化不良。看到的永远是一杯半空的水。
Such bile must find political expression. It has in the rightist, anti-immigrant National Front of Marine Le Pen, victorious in European Parliament elections, her gaze now set on a greater prize: the Élysée Palace.
这样的愤怒必须找到政治上的表达。马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)的右翼、反移民政党国民阵线(National Front)就有这样的表达，在欧洲议会(European Parliament)选举上获胜后，她已经盯上了一个更高的奖项：爱丽舍宫。
Make no mistake, she could become president. The National Front has surged before, notably in 2002 when Jean-Marie Le Pen, the incumbent’s father, reached the runoff stage of the presidential election. But in the dozen years since then the European and French crises have deepened. France has near zero growth and growing unemployment. With an estimated 25 percent of the European Parliament vote, the National Front crushed both the governing Socialists (14 percent) and the center-right Union for a Popular Movement (20.8 percent).
有一点很明确，她是有机会成为总统的。国民阵线此前就曾崛起过，尤其是2002年让-马里·勒庞(Jean-Marie Le Pen)——现任领导人的父亲——在总统大选上一直冲到了第二轮。但是在此后的12年里，欧洲和法国的危机进一步加剧。法国的经济增速趋近于零，失业率在上升。在欧洲议会选举上，国民阵线估计得到了25%的选票，大大高于执政的社会党(Socialists)的14%和中右翼人民运动联盟(Union for a Popular Movement)的20.8%。
“An earthquake,” was the verdict of the Socialist prime minister, Manuel Valls. He is not wrong. A two-party system is now a three-party system. Marine Le Pen, subtler and cleverer and more ambitious than her father, is electable. She is plausible.
“一场地震，”这是社会党总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)的结论。他说得没错。两党体制现在变成了三党体制。马琳·勒庞比她父亲更收敛、更聪明，也更有野心，是可能当选的。她看似是个合理的选择。
Elsewhere on the Continent the anger behind the National Front’s surge was also evident (no election is better suited for letting off steam than the European because the real power of the European Parliament is limited). In Britain, Austria and Denmark, more than 15 percent of the vote went to similar anti-immigrant, anti-Europe, anti-establishment, anti-boredom political movements. But it is in France, which constitutes with Germany the core of the European Union, that a European, economic and psychological crisis has assumed its most acute form.
在欧洲大陆其他地方，同样也能看到跟国民阵线崛起类似的趋势（没有什么选举比欧洲的这个选举更适合用来宣泄情绪了，因为欧洲议会的实际权力是有限的）。在英国、奥地利和丹麦，超过15%的票投给了类似的反移民、反欧洲、反权势、反乏味政治团体。然而，和德国一同构成欧盟核心的法国，才是欧洲经济和心理危机的头号重灾区。
According to the French daily Le Monde, the National Front took 43 percent of workers’ votes and 37 percent of the vote of the unemployed. Popular sentiment in France has turned against a Europe associated with austerity, stagnation, unemployment and high immigration. Le Pen’s promise of a more nationalist and anti-immigrant France, rejecting European integration and America, has appeal to the disenchanted. A promised Paris-Berlin-Moscow axis, with Putin and his “family values” as Europe’s salvation, masks a void of economic ideas.
据法国的《世界报》(Le Monde)报道，国民阵线得到了43%的工人和37%的失业者投票。对于这个跟紧缩、停滞、失业和高移民联系在一起的欧洲，法国的主流观点已经转向反对。勒庞承诺了一个更民族主义的、反移民的法国，拒绝欧洲的融合，拒绝美国，而这能打动那些心灰意冷的人。和普京及其“家庭价值观”携手，组成拯救欧洲的巴黎-柏林-莫斯科轴心，这样的承诺掩盖了经济看法的缺失。
The crisis in France goes far deeper than its immediate economic challenges. For a nation defeated in World War II, but allowed through de Gaulle to claim a sort of victory in the shirttails of the Allies, the European Union was the way out of a strange humiliation. (It was also salvation for Germany, but that is a different story). Europe was a bold idea, a counterbalance to the United States, a vehicle for a new form of national ambition that was significantly French in genesis. A medium-sized power, much diminished, France could yet dream through Europe. It could opine. It could even change the world.
法国的危机，远比眼前的经济挑战要更深重。作为一个在第二次世界大战中被击败的国家，它得以通过戴高乐申明一个站在同盟国身后拿到的胜利，而欧盟是一个摆脱这种怪异的耻辱感的办法。（它同时也让德国得以解脱，不过那就是另一回事了）。欧洲是个大胆的想法，是对美国的一种制衡，承载着国家志向的一种全新形式，它在创始之初有着鲜明的法国特征。在势力大幅减弱之后，法国作为一个中等大国仍可以通过欧洲继续自己的梦想。它可以发表意见。它甚至可以改变世界。