At one end of the room, Malaysia Airlines employees delivered the latest briefing to relatives and friends of passengers who were aboard the airline’s missing Flight 370. At the other end, volunteers listened from behind tables piled with snacks, waiting to provide counseling, logistical assistance or just hand holding.
在会议厅的一头，马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)的员工们正在忙着向马航370这个失踪航班上乘客的亲友们通报最新进展。在另一头，志愿者们坐在堆满了零食的桌子后静静地听着，等着为家属们提供咨询、后勤协助的服务，或者仅仅是握着他们的手。
The volunteers were from the Tzu Chi Foundation, a Buddhist charitable organization headquartered in Taiwan. The volunteers, requested by Malaysia Airlines because the airline feared it did not have enough Chinese-speaking staff, arrived at the Beijing hotel where families were lodged by 5 p.m. Saturday, hours after the flight was declared missing.
这些志愿者来自一家总部位于台湾的佛教慈善机构慈济慈善事业基金会。马航由于担心自己说中文的员工不够多，于是要求慈济提供支援。周六下午5点，就在马航宣布飞机失踪数小时后，这些志愿者来到了家属们在北京下榻的宾馆。
Tzu Chi is well placed to offer help. Founded in 1966 by a Buddhist nun, Cheng Yen, the foundation now has 372 offices worldwide. It runs hospitals, a medical school and even its own cable television channel. But the foundation is becoming best known for its relief operations in more than 80 countries, including aid to Hurricane Sandy victims in the New York area two years ago and for survivors of the devastating earthquake in the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan in 2008.
慈济有充分的能力提供帮助。1966年，尼姑证严创立了慈济基金会，如今在全世界有372处办公室。它经营着医院、医学院，甚至还有自己的有线电视频道。但是慈济最为人所知的还是它在80多个国家开展的救灾工作，包括了两年前在纽约地区对飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)受害者的救援，以及2008年中国西南省份四川发生灾难性大地震后，对幸存者提供帮助。
Although several foreign charities have set up unregistered or semi-authorized operations in China, or must register with the Commerce Ministry as businesses, in 2010, Tzu Chi became the first overseas, faith-based N.G.O. to receive permission from the Chinese Ministry of Civil Affairs to set up an office.
已有几家海外的慈善机构未经注册，或在取得部分许可的情况下开始了在中国的运营，否则的话它们就需要在商务部以公司的形式注册。尽管如此，慈济还是在2010年成为了中国大陆第一家由境外宗教性质非营利组织成立的基金会，取得了民政部的许可在大陆设立办事机构。
On this day in the ballroom of the Metropark Lido Hotel, transformed into both waiting room and crisis management center after the flight’s disappearance, Tzu Chi volunteers dressed in navy zip-up jackets and neat white trousers made their way between groups of seated family members — offering hot tea, snacks or uplifting words.
周六那一天，就在马航370航班失踪后，北京丽都维景酒店的那间会议厅已经被改造成了等候室兼应急中心。而慈济的志愿者们身着藏青色夹克衫和笔挺的白色长裤，穿梭在一群群坐着的家属之间，送上热茶、零食或者鼓励的话语。
Zeng Yunji, a veteran volunteer, said their approach was to encourage people not to think negatively and to stay as peaceful in their hearts as possible. “You’re still waiting for news either way,” she said in an interview. “So why must we think towards the negative?”
资深志愿者曾云姬说，他们的方式是鼓励人们不要往坏处想，尽量保持心境的平和。“不管怎么样，你还在等消息，”她在采访中说。“所以为什么非要往坏处想呢？”
A native of Taiwan, Ms. Zeng joined the foundation more than a decade ago and now lives in Beijing. With experience in other relief operations, including the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, she serves as an unofficial leader of the 53 volunteers at the hotel. Although most of the volunteers are from Tzu Chi branches on the Chinese mainland, about 15 flew in from Malaysia. Most are covering their own expenses.
曾云姬是台湾人，十多年前就加入了慈济，如今生活在北京。她参与了许多救灾行动，包括2008年四川地震的救援，也是丽都饭店里53位志愿者中非正式的组长。虽然多数的志愿者来自慈济在中国大陆的办事机构，也有15位从马来西亚飞过来。其中多数都是自费。
The volunteers are not, for the most part, licensed counselors. But Ms. Zeng said that the foundation provided training in how to provide support, as well as how volunteers can deal with their own stress.
这些志愿者多数都不是有资质的咨询师。但曾云姬说，慈济会提供培训，告诉志愿者如何提供支持，以及如何应对自身的压力。
Aside from offering emotional support, she added that a “very important” task of the volunteers was to ensure that people remembered to take care of themselves physically. “Your spirit has already been defeated, so afterwards you don’t have the ability to eat or drink normally,” she said. So volunteers are “constantly offering food or water” and reminding people to eat regular meals.
曾云姬还说，志愿者们除了提供情感支持以外，还有一项“很重要的”任务，就是确保人们要记着照顾自己的身体。“你已经遭受了精神打击，所以之后你会失去正常饮食的能力，”她说。所以志愿者们会“常常拿食物和水”给家属，并提醒他们要保持三餐正常。
But keeping up spirits can be a daunting task as the likelihood of finding survivors dwindles. When Malaysia Airlines employees cautioned on Sunday that families should “be prepared for the worst,” relatives became very distressed, said another volunteer, who only gave his surname, Li. Some fainted, banged their heads on the wall or said they wanted to die, he said.
但是随着发现幸存者的希望越来越渺茫，要做到不悲观实在很困难。另一位只说自己姓李的志愿者表示，当马来西亚航空的员工周日提醒家属们应该“做好最坏的打算”时，家属们的情绪崩溃了。他说，其中一些晕了过去，一些拿头撞墙，或者说他们不想活了。
The volunteers have also been serving as interpreters and helping families apply for passports and visas to travel to Malaysia. They also try to reduce tensions between airline officials and family members.
志愿者们也会提供翻译的服务，还会帮助家属们申请护照和签证，安排他们赶赴马来西亚。他们也努力化解马航管理层和家属之间的矛盾。
On Monday, Mr. Li and other volunteers calmed down a man from Shandong Province who felt he had been slighted by airline officials. He stood on a chair and began “throwing water bottles and other objects.” His complaint was that his family of seven had received only four food vouchers, and he thought this meant the Malaysians “looked down on them,” Mr. Li said.
周一，李先生和其他志愿者帮助一位来自山东省的男子平复情绪，他觉得自己受到了马航官员的怠慢。他站到了椅子上，开始“扔水瓶和其他东西”。李先生表示，这名男子抱怨称，自己有七名亲人在酒店，但只拿到四张食品券，他认为这说明马来西亚人“瞧不起他们”。
By Tuesday afternoon, the mood was more subdued. That morning, many family members had departed for Kuala Lumpur on flights organized by Malaysia Airlines. For those left behind in Beijing, there was little to do but wait for news.
截至周二下午，家属的情绪已经比较平和。当天上午，很多家属已经乘坐马航组织的航班飞往吉隆坡。那些留在北京的亲属除了等待消息，没有什么可做的。
Ms. Zeng said she was not sure what the services at the hotel were costing the foundation, but this was not a factor. “We will be here as long as we are needed,” she said.
曾云姬表示，她不确定该基金会要为在酒店的服务活动支付多少费用，但这不是问题。她说，“只要有需要，我们就会留在这儿。”
The lost Malaysia Airlines jet is just one of a series of recent cases in which Tzu Chi has offered aid. It was also the most visible group helping survivors after Typhoon Haiyan struck the central Philippines last November.
近年来，慈济开展了很多援助活动，马航飞机失联事故只是其中之一。慈济还是去年11月台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)侵袭菲律宾中部地区后，在为幸存者提供帮助方面最引人瞩目的组织。