In September 1992, two Israeli widows went to the home of their lawyer. When the women arrived, the lawyer told them that he had received some photographs during his recent trip to Munich but that he did not think they should view them. When they insisted, he urged them to let him call a doctor who could be present when they did.
1992年9月，两名以色列寡妇走进她们的律师家里。她们到了之后，律师表示他最近去慕尼黑期间收到了一些照片，但他觉得她们最好不要看这些东西。但她们坚持要看。律师就力劝她们同意让他叫个医生过来，好在她们看这些照片时有个照应。
Ilana Romano and Ankie Spitzer, whose husbands were among the Israeli athletes held hostage and killed by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Olympics in Munich, rejected that request, too. They looked at the pictures that for decades they had been told did not exist, and then agreed never to discuss them publicly.
伊拉娜·罗马诺(Ilana Romano)和安吉·施皮策(Ankie Spitzer)拒绝了这个提议。她们的丈夫都是在1972年慕尼黑奥运会期间，被巴勒斯坦恐怖分子绑架为人质然后杀害的以色列运动员。她们看到了多年来一直被否认其存在的这些照片，然后决定以后再也不公开谈论它们。
The attack at the Olympic Village stands as one of sports’ most horrifying episodes. The eight terrorists, representing a branch of the Palestine Liberation Organization, breached the apartments where the Israeli athletes were staying before dawn on Sept. 5, 1972. That began an international nightmare that lasted more than 20 hours and ended with a disastrous failed rescue attempt.
那场对奥运村实施的袭击，依然是体育界最为惊悚的事件之一。1972年9月5日天亮之前，代表巴勒斯坦解放组织(Palestine Liberation Organization)旗下一个分支的八名恐怖分子，冲进了以色列运动员所在的公寓。接下来是国际社会持续20多个小时的一场噩梦，最终以一场援救行动的灾难性失败而告终。
The treatment of the hostages has long been a subject of speculation, but a more vivid — and disturbing — account of the attack is emerging. For the first time, Ms. Romano, Ms. Spitzer and other victims’ family members are choosing to speak openly about documentation previously unknown to the public in an effort to get their loved ones the recognition they believe is deserved.
长期以来，人们一直在猜测这些人质究竟遭遇了怎样的对待，但有关这场袭击的更多讲述正在显现——细节更清晰，也更让人不安。罗马诺和施皮策及其他受害者家属首次公开谈论了之前不为人知的档案，目的是让她们挚爱的人，获得她们认为应得的承认。
Among the most jarring details are these: The Israeli Olympic team members were beaten and, in at least one case, castrated.
其中最让人触目惊心的细节是：这些以色列奥运代表队成员遭到殴打，而且至少有一人被阉割。
“What they did is that they cut off his genitals through his underwear and abused him,” Ms. Romano said of her husband, Yossef. Her voice rose.
罗马诺讲述她的丈夫优素福(Yossef)的遭遇说，“他们所做的是，隔着内裤割掉他的生殖器，虐待他。”她的嗓音不自觉大了起来。
“Can you imagine the nine others sitting around tied up?” she continued, speaking in Hebrew through a translator. “They watched this.”
“你能想象其他九个人被绑着坐在旁边的场景吗？”她通过一名翻译用希伯来语继续说道。“他们眼睁睁地看着。”
Ms. Romano and Ms. Spitzer, whose husband, Andre, was a fencing coach at the Munich Games and died in the attack, first described the extent of the cruelty during an interview for the coming film “Munich 1972 & Beyond,” a documentary that chronicles the long fight by families of the victims to gain public and official acknowledgment for their loved ones. The film is expected to be released early next year.
施皮策的丈夫安德烈(Andre)是一名击剑教练，也在慕尼黑奥运会那场袭击中遇害。罗马诺和施皮策第一次描述这些暴行的残忍程度，是在为即将公映的纪录片《慕尼黑1972及后续》(Munich 1972 & Beyond)接受采访时说起的。这部纪录片预计将在明年初上映，它记录了受害者的家人为其挚爱亲人谋求公众和官方的认可，而开展的漫长斗争。
In subsequent interviews with The New York Times, Ms. Spitzer explained that she and the family members of the other victims learned the details of how the victims were treated only 20 years after the tragedy, when German authorities released hundreds of pages of reports they previously denied existed.
在之后接受《纽约时报》采访时，施皮策解释说，她和其他受害者家属是在惨剧发生20年后，才得知受害者遭遇暴行的细节，因为德国当局直到那时才公布数百页的报告，在那之前他们一直否认存在这些资料。
Ms. Spitzer said that she and Ms. Romano, as representatives of the group of family members, first saw the documents on that Saturday night in 1992. One of Ms. Romano’s daughters was to be married just three days later, but Ms. Romano never considered delaying the viewing; she had been waiting for so long.
施皮策表示，她和罗马诺作为受害者家属的代表，首先在1992年那个周六的晚上看到了那些档案。当时罗马诺的一个女儿再有三天就要结婚，但她压根没想过推迟阅读这些档案；她已经等了太久。
The photographs were “as bad I could have imagined,” Ms. Romano said. (The New York Times reviewed the photographs but has chosen not to publish them because of their graphic nature.)
照片“像我想象的一样惨不忍睹”，罗马诺表示。（时报查看了这些照片，但鉴于画面十分直白，所以决定不刊出。）
Mr. Romano, a champion weight lifter, was shot when he tried to overpower the terrorists early in the attack. He was then left to die in front of the other hostages and castrated. Other hostages were beaten and sustained serious injuries, including broken bones, Ms. Spitzer said. Mr. Romano and another hostage died in the Olympic Village; the other nine were killed during a failed rescue attempt after they were moved with their captors to a nearby airport.
优素福·罗马诺是一名举重冠军，他在袭击开始时试图制服恐怖分子，但遭到枪击，然后在其他人质面前慢慢死去，并遭到阉割。施皮策表示，其他人质遭到殴打，身受重伤，比如骨折。优素福·罗马诺及其他人质在奥运村丧生，其他九人被劫持者转移到了附近的机场，但最终因为救援行动失败而遇难。
It was not clear if the mutilation of Mr. Romano occurred before or after he died, Ms. Spitzer said, though Ms. Romano said she believed it happened afterward.
施皮策表示，目前尚不清楚优素福·罗马诺是在生前还是死后遭到残害，但罗马诺表示，她认为是在丈夫死后。
“The terrorists always claimed that they didn’t come to murder anyone — they only wanted to free their friends from prison in Israel,” Ms. Spitzer said. “They said it was only because of the botched-up rescue operation at the airport that they killed the rest of the hostages, but it’s not true. They came to hurt people. They came to kill.”
“恐怖分子一直宣称，他们不想杀害任何人，他们只是想解救那些在以色列遭到监禁的朋友，”施皮策说。“他们说，他们是因为那场失败的机场救援行动才杀害了余下的人质，但这不是真的。他们来这里就是为了伤人、杀人。”
Since much of the attention from Israeli officials after the attacks focused on security breaches and mistakes by German and Olympic officials that had allowed the terrorists to strike, consideration of the plight of the dead victims had been a priority only to their families.
袭击发生后，以色列官员主要关注的是安全漏洞及德国和奥组委官员的失误，这使得恐怖分子有了可乘之机。着重关注遇害者遭遇的，就只有他们的家人。
“We asked for more details, but we were told, over and over, there was nothing,” Ms. Spitzer said.
施皮策表示，“我们要求获得更多细节，但我们被反复告知，什么也没有。”
In 1992, however, after doing an interview with a German television station regarding the 20th anniversary of the attack in which she expressed her frustration about still not knowing exactly what happened to her husband and his teammates, Ms. Spitzer was contacted by a man who said he worked for a German government agency with access to reams of records about the attack.
但在1992年，施皮策就袭击事件20周年的主题接受德国电视台采访时表示，仍旧不了解丈夫及其队友的遭遇，这让她十分失望。之后，一名男子联系到施皮策，称自己为德国政府机构工作，可以获得大量有关此次袭击事件的记录。
Initially, Ms. Spitzer said, the man, who remained anonymous, sent her about 80 pages of police reports and other documents. With those documents, Mr. Zeltzer, the lawyer, and Ms. Spitzer pressured the German government into releasing the rest of the file, which included the photographs.
施皮策表示，这名不愿透露姓名的男子起初发给了她80页警方报告及其他档案。获得这些档案后，律师泽尔策(Zeltzer)和施皮策要求德国政府公布包括照片在内的其余档案。
After receiving the file, the victims’ families sued the German government, the Bavarian regional government and the city of Munich for a “deficient security concept” and the “serious mistakes” that doomed the rescue mission, according to the complaint. The suit was ultimately dismissed because of statute-of-limitations regulations.
起诉书显示，收到档案后，受害者家属控告德国政府、巴伐利亚州政府及慕尼黑市“缺乏安全观念”，存在“严重失误”，导致救援任务失败。但由于追诉时效方面的法律规定，法院最终未予立案。
“The moment I saw the photos, it was very painful,” Ms. Romano said. “I remembered until that day Yossef as a young man with a big smile. I remembered his dimples until that moment.”
“我看到照片的那一刻感到十分痛心，”罗马诺说。“我记得在那天之前，优素福一直都是一个笑容满面的青年。我记得他的酒窝，直到那一刻。”
She hesitated. “At that moment, it erased the entire Yossi that I knew,” she said.
她迟疑了一下，说道，“那一刻抹去了我所认识的优素福。”