BERLIN — A heavy metal gate bearing the Nazis’ infamous concentration camp slogan, “Arbeit Macht Frei,” (Work Sets You Free), was stolen under cover of darkness on the weekend from the memorial site at the old Nazi camp of Dachau, just north of Munich, in what looked like a carefully planned crime, the authorities in Bavaria said on Monday.
柏林——巴伐利亚州当局在周一表示，上周末慕尼黑北部的达豪，有人趁着夜色盗走了一座老纳粹集中营遗址的一扇铁门，门上有臭名昭著的集中营口号“劳动使人自由”(Arbeit Macht Frei)，这看起来像是精心策划的犯罪活动。
A similar theft of an “Arbeit Macht Frei” sign occurred at Auschwitz-Birkenau in Poland in 2009. The slogan was recovered after a few days, and in December 2010 a Swedish neo-Nazi and two Polish accomplices were jailed for their part in the theft.
2009年，波兰奥斯维辛-比克瑙(Auschwitz-Birkenau)集中营发生了类似的盗窃事件，一块刻有“劳动使人自由”的标牌被盗走，但在几天之后被找到。2010年12月，一名瑞典的新纳粹主义分子和两名波兰同谋因为参与盗窃被监禁。
The theft of the gate at Dachau was discovered early Sunday by the private security service that keeps a 24-hour watch on the site, in addition to frequent patrols by the police. Records suggested the theft occurred between midnight and 5:30 a.m., officials said.
除了警察频繁巡逻外，一家私营保安公司负责对集中营遗址进行全天24小时的看守。周日早间，保安公司发现集中营大门被盗。官员们称，记录显示，盗窃发生在午夜至早上5点半之间。
Dachau was the first camp opened by the Nazis to incarcerate their political opponents, starting shortly after Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933. Gabriele Hammermann, who has worked there since 1997 and headed it since 2009, expressed revulsion at the violation of the site, where the Nazis imprisoned about 200,000 people over 12 years. An estimated 41,500 met their deaths at the camp, which was liberated by American troops days before World War II ended in Europe in May 1945.
达豪集中营是阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)于1933年上台后不久，纳粹分子为了监禁政敌开设的第一所集中营。加布里埃莱·哈默曼(Gabriele Hammermann)从1997年开始在那里工作，并于2009年成为负责人。他对侵犯该遗址的行为表示不满。在12年的时间里，纳粹分子在这所集中营监禁了大约20万人。约有41500人死在这里。在二战欧洲战场战事于1945年5月宣告结束的几天前，美国军队解放了这里。
“It was a terrible shock,” Ms. Hammermann said. “This is the most important symbol of the concentration camp.”
“太令人震惊了，”哈默曼说。“这是集中营最重要的标志。”
Ms. Hammermann and police investigators said that at least two adults must have been involved, noting that the thieves not only had to cut the heavy, six-and-a-half-foot-long object loose but also had to heave it over an outer gate. By police estimates, the piece weighed as much as 225 pounds.
哈默曼和警方调查人员表示，肯定涉及至少两名成年人，并指出窃贼不仅要卸下那道沉重的金属门，还要将6.5英尺（约合2米）长的门举过外面的一道门。据警方估计，整扇门重达225磅（约合100公斤）。
Ms. Hammermann said that, in protecting sites like Dachau, a careful balance had to be struck between providing enough security and not turning these symbols of a totalitarian state into sites bristling with instruments of modern surveillance. “How do you protect them and at the same not interfere with the authentic structure? You have to weigh it all,” particularly in consultation with survivors, she said.
哈默曼表示，达豪等场所是一个极权国家的标志，在保护这些地方时，必须小心翼翼地寻找一种平衡，既要提供足够的安保，又不能把它们变成布满现代监控仪器的地方。她说，“如何在保护它们的同时，又不影响建筑的原本？必须仔细权衡”，尤其是要与幸存者协商。
Dachau is the most visited former concentration camp in Germany, she said, with an estimated 800,000 visitors a year. Most are schoolchildren from Bavaria and elsewhere in Germany, but there are also many Americans, Australians and increasingly Italians, whose World War II partisans were often incarcerated in Dachau.
她说，达豪是德国参观人数最多的前集中营，估计每年有80万名参观者。大部分是来自巴伐利亚州和德国其他地方的小学生，但也有许多美国人和澳大利亚人，意大利人也越来越多。二战期间，这些国家的游击队员往往被关在达豪。