The historical landscape is littered with the wreckage of regimes, many of them defeated after long and bloody struggles, but there is nothing in modern European history quite like the destructive fury with which Hitler’s Thousand-Year Reich came to an end. Long after any hope of victory had been extinguished, the government’s supporters kept on fighting, killing not only their enemies, both real and imagined, but also many of their fellow countrymen whose commitment to the cause seemed to waver. And finally they began to kill themselves. Among the scores of Germans who committed suicide in Nazi Germany’s final hours were Dr. ­Joseph Goebbels, minister of propaganda and, since July 1944, “Reich Plenipotentiary for Total War,” and his wife, Magda. Before ending their own lives, they murdered their six children, five girls and a boy; the oldest, Helga, was 12, the youngest, Heide, 4.
历史画卷上总是凌乱地点缀着政权的残骸，其中不少都是经历了漫长血腥的斗争方才覆灭，但在现代欧洲的历史上，却罕有哪个政权像希特勒的“千年帝国”那样，伴随着破坏性的狂暴走向终点。在胜利的希望彻底湮灭之前，这个政府的支持者们曾经不懈斗争，致力于消灭真正的敌人与假想敌，就连对这一事业有所动摇的同胞也要杀死。直到最后，他们开始自杀。在纳粹德国覆败之前的最后几个小时里，有大量德国人走向自杀之路，其中也包括约瑟夫·戈培尔博士(Dr. Joseph Goebbels)，他是纳粹的宣传部长，从1944年7月开始还担任“总体战动员委员会全权总监”，妻子玛格塔(Magda)随他一起自杀。两人结束生命之前杀死了他们的五个女儿与一个儿子，最年长的希尔加(Helga)12岁，最小的海德(Heide)4岁。
Goebbels’s path to his death in the bunker below the ruins of Hitler’s Chancellery began in 1924, when he became a founding member of a chapter of the National Socialist Workers Party in his hometown, Rheydt, a small city in the Rhineland, not far from Düsseldorf. That year Goebbels turned 27 years old, without past accomplishments or future prospects: unmarried, unemployed and still living at home, he was the author of an unpublished doctoral dissertation on a deservedly obscure German writer and a few unfinished works of autobiographical fiction.
戈培尔的人生就这样止于希特勒总理府之下的元首地堡，这条死亡之路始于他的家乡，莱茵区杜塞尔多夫附近的小城雷特；1924年，他在这里成为了国家社会工人党的创始人之一。那年戈培尔27岁，尚未取得任何成就，也看不到未来有什么希望，他没有妻子、没有工作，和父母住在一起，写过一份没出版的博士论文，内容是关于一位没什么才华也不怎么有名的德国作家，还写了几部没完成的自传体小说。
The National Socialists, a small, isolated and deeply divided group on the radical fringe of German right-wing politics, turned out to be the perfect instrument through which Goebbels could achieve the historical destiny that, despite all evidence to the contrary, he firmly believed was to be his. Among this crowd of misfits and fanatics, Goebbels’s talents were impressive. Energetic, relatively efficient, unencumbered by an excess of political ideas but remarkably adept at expressing the movement’s hatreds and frustrations, he quickly acquired ever greater ­responsibility.
国家社会党是个孤立的、极度分裂的小党派，在德国右翼政治阵营中处于最激进的边缘，它却成了戈培尔完成历史使命的完美工具，尽管所有证据一开始都指向相反的方向，他却坚定地相信这一使命要由自己来完成。在一大群不合时宜者与狂热党徒之中，戈培尔的才能犹如鹤立鸡群。他精明强干，不受任何政治理念束缚，却极为擅长表达出这个运动中的憎恨与挫折感，很快便担负起了更大的责任。
Goebbels’s big break came in 1926, when he was sent to take over the faltering Nazi operation in Berlin. While his record as Gauleiter in the German capital was by no means as triumphant as he often claimed, he was able to create an effective political organization, manage deep internal divisions and attract a small but committed following. Thanks in part to his managerial skills and oratorical gifts, the party survived the Weimar Republic’s brief period of stability and was in a position to take advantage of the political and social turmoil unleashed by the Great Depression.
1926年，戈培尔的重大突破来了，他被派去柏林，接管纳粹党摇摇欲坠的运营工作。他在德国首都担任纳粹地方长官的政绩并不像他自己经常描述的那样成功，不过他确实建立起了行之有效的政治组织，管理国内的分支，并吸引了人数虽少但却非常忠诚的拥趸。部分是由于他的管理技巧与雄辩之才，纳粹党挺过了魏玛共和国的短暂稳定期，在大萧条所带来的政治与社会动荡之中居于有利地位。
What exactly did Goebbels believe in? Peter Longerich, the author of several important books on the history of Nazi Germany and the founder of the Holocaust Research Center at the University of London, rejects the conventional portrait of him as a cynical opportunist. But he admits that “even after a careful perusal of his extensive writings, the reader remains unclear as to what Joseph Goebbels’s political agenda was and what political maxims he was advocating.”
戈培尔到底信仰什么？传统上人们经常把他描述成一个持怀疑论的机会主义者，若干纳粹德国历史重要著作的作者及伦敦大学犹太大屠杀研究中心创始人彼得·朗格里希(Peter Longerich)却并不这样认为。但他承认，“一个读者就算细心读过他的大量作品，也很难搞清约瑟夫·戈培尔的政治议题究竟是什么，他宣扬的政治准则到底是什么。”
On only two matters did Goebbels’s commitment remain consistent and passionate. One was the so-called “Jewish question.” From the start of his political career until the very end, Goebbels viewed Jews, both at home and abroad, as the source of Germany’s misfortunes. He supported without hesitation the regime’s increasingly radical racial policies as they evolved from persecution to exclusion to mass murder. “A judgment is being carried out on the Jews that is barbaric but thoroughly deserved,” he wrote in March 1942. “There must be no sentimentality about these matters.”
戈培尔一生只持续而热烈地忠于两件事。其一就是他所谓的“犹太问题”。戈培尔视国内外的犹太人为德国灾难的源泉，这一观点贯穿他政治生涯的始终。他毫不犹豫地支持政府实施最激进的种族政策，最终从迫害发展为大屠杀。“针对犹太人实施了一项裁决，虽然野蛮但却完全值得，”1942年3月，他写道。“在这些事上绝不能多愁善感。”
The second, no less powerful and persistent of Goebbels’s political commitments was his loyalty to Hitler. He was a narcissist, Longerich argues, who needed to be admired by everyone he met, but he was especially and obsessively addicted to Hitler’s admiration, which he would do anything to retain. He was the only one of Hitler’s closest associates who remained with him until the end, finally affirming his fealty with his own, and his family’s, death.
第二件事同样强大而持久，那便是戈培尔对希特勒的忠诚。朗格里希说，戈培尔极度自恋，需要身边所有人赞美他，但他却特别执迷于希特勒的赞美，愿意做任何事来换取希特勒的肯定。他是希特勒所有心腹之中唯一一个直到最后还追随在元首身边的人，最终用自己和全家人的生命证实了他的忠诚。
From Goebbels’s endlessly elaborate descriptions of his meetings with the Führer, we can see — as Goebbels himself often could not — just how skillfully Hitler manipulated him, deftly deploying his talents, exploiting his weaknesses, nurturing his loyalty by feeding but never fully satisfying his insatiable appetite for approval. Hitler saw to it that, like everyone in his inner circle, Goebbels had to share power with others: Although formally in charge of propaganda, he was never given complete control over the party’s publishing business or its press agency and was constantly frustrated by the Foreign Office’s attempts to influence opinion overseas. Hitler’s own authority was based on his role as the final arbiter of the disputes that constantly erupted among his ambitious and aggressive courtiers.
戈培尔事无巨细地描述自己与元首的会面，我们从中可以看到（他自己通常看不到这一点）希特勒如何巧妙地操纵着他、娴熟地驾驭着他的才能、利用着他的软弱，也培育着他的忠诚，提供他最渴望的赞美与认可，但又不让他彻底满足。希特勒明白，戈培尔和他内部小圈子里的所有人一样，必须与他人分享权力。尽管掌握着宣传大权，但戈培尔从未彻底掌握纳粹党的印刷事业和出版机构，还经常为外交部试图影响对外发言的事而烦恼。希特勒的手下个个野心勃勃，充满侵略性，所以经常爆发纠纷，希特勒的权威就建立在他的终极仲裁者角色之上。
Goebbels’s great advantage in the contentious world of Nazi politics was his personal connection to the Führer. Longerich describes in considerable detail Hitler’s close relationship with the entire Goebbels family, and especially with Magda, to whom he seems to have felt a powerful emotional, although apparently not erotic, attachment. In 1938, when Magda complained about her husband’s affair with the Czech actress Lida Baarova, Hitler intervened and insisted on a reconciliation. Faced with the choice between the charms of the lovely Baarova and his loyalty to the Führer, Goebbels does not seem to have hesitated a minute. (“And now,” he confided to his diary, “a new life is beginning. A hard, tough life, dedicated to nothing but duty. My youth is over.”) Despite Longerich’s best efforts, however, the psychodynamics of this odd ménage à trois remain obscure. As is so often the case in histories of Nazi Germany, the Hitler of this account seems at once centrally important and ultimately elusive.
在这个充满争斗的纳粹政治世界里，戈培尔最大的优势就是他和元首的私人关系。朗格里希详细地描述了希特勒与戈培尔全家的亲密关系，特别是戈培尔的妻子玛格塔，希特勒和她感情特别好，不过似乎完全与情欲无关。1938年，玛格塔抱怨她的丈夫与捷克女演员莉妲·巴洛瓦(Lida Baarova)有染。希特勒介入其中，力主两人和好。在巴洛瓦的魅力与对领袖的忠诚之间，戈培尔毫不犹豫地选择了后者。“现在，”他在日记中坦白，“新生活开始了。一种艰苦的生活，完全奉献给责任。我的青春结束了。”尽管朗格里希非常努力，这种奇异的三角关系还是暧昧不清。在这件事情中，希特勒所扮演的角色似乎无比重要，但又非常难以捉摸，这种情况在关于纳粹德国的史学著作中经常发生。
Longerich offers a vast amount of information about Goebbels’s place in the public and private world of the Nazi elite, his work as the regime’s chief propagandist and his efforts to rally the nation amid wartime disasters and in the face of impending defeat. Although he was always at the center of events, Goebbels was never as important as he wanted to be. Again and again, his power was limited by the fact that while Hitler counted on his skill as a propagandist, he had no confidence in his political judgment or tactical instincts. When we read Goebbels’s unfailingly banal comments on people and events, we can understand why he was rarely consulted about important decisions. Of Mussolini, for example, we learn from his diary: “He’s short. But a huge head. . . . Is like a friend to me right away. ‘Il dottore.’ We hit it off immediately.”
朗格里希大量描述了戈培尔在纳粹精英世界中公开与私下的生活、他作为这个政权最主要的宣传者的工作，以及他在战争灾难乃至纳粹面临覆灭时为把这个国家团结起来所做的努力。尽管戈培尔经常处于事件的中心，但他从来未能像自己所希望的那样重要。他的权力一次又一次受到限制，因为希特勒只把他当做喉舌而已，并不信任他的政治判断与战术才能。读着戈培尔对人物与事件千篇一律的平庸描述，我们不难理解希特勒为什么从不就重大决策咨询他的意见。比如说，关于墨索里尼，戈培尔在日记中写道：“他很矮，但是头很大……我一下子就把他当成了朋友。‘博士。’我们一拍即合。”
“Goebbels: A Biography,” in a fluent translation of the German version published in 2010, is likely to remain the definitive account of the man’s life. No other scholar has so successfully mastered the enormous mass of material he left behind. One special feature of this biography is Longerich’s skill in analyzing the diary that Goebbels kept virtually every day from 1923 until almost three weeks before his death in 1945. A full copy was discovered in Moscow in 1992 and is now available in an edition that runs to 32 volumes. One must admire the dedication required to separate fact from fantasy in this extraordinarily rich but also extraordinarily problematic source. How wearing it must have been to spend so much time with someone as relentlessly self-absorbed as Joseph Goebbels. As Longerich so thoroughly demonstrates, the world was a mirror for Goebbels, often held so close to his face that it could reflect nothing but himself.
《戈培尔传》(Goebbels: A Biography)于2010年出版，现在自德语翻译而来，译本流畅可读，似乎是关于戈培尔生平最准确的描述。没有其他任何学者可以像朗格里希这样成功驾驭戈培尔留下来的海量素材。这本传记的重要特色就是朗格里希对戈培尔日记的精彩分析。戈培尔从1923年到1945年死前三个星期，几乎每天都记日记，1992年，它们在莫斯科被发现，目前出版为32卷本。这些素材极为丰富，但也问题多多，把其中的事实部分与幻想部分区分开来需要极大的努力，足以令人钦佩。花费那样多的时间去研究约瑟夫·戈培尔这样一个极度自恋的人，一定非常令人生厌。正如朗格里希向我们悉心呈现出来的那样，世界对于戈培尔来说如同一面镜子，他经常对之细细端详，眼中看到的别无其他，只有他自己一人的形象。