Bill Gates was 20 years old. Steve Jobs was 21. Warren Buffett was 26. Ralph Lauren was 28. Estée Lauder was 29.
当他们自立门户的时候，比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)是20岁；史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)21岁；沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)26岁；拉尔夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)28岁；雅诗·兰黛(Estée Lauder)29岁。
These now iconic names were all 20-somethings when they started their companies that would catapult them, and their enterprises, into some of the biggest successes ever known. Consider this: many of the truly remarkable innovations of the latest generation — a list that includes Google, Facebook and Twitter — were all founded by people under 30. (Mark Zuckerberg, technically, started Facebook even earlier, when he was 19; at 20 he moved to California to turn it into a business.) The number of people in their mid-20s disrupting entire industries, taking on jobs usually reserved for people twice their age and doing it in the glare of millions of social media “followers” seems to be growing almost exponentially.
这些如今的偶像都在20多岁的时候创立了自己的公司，一举成名，他们的企业也均获得了前所未有的巨大成功。想一想：年轻一代许多真正不同凡响的创新——包括谷歌(Google)、Facebook和Twitter——都是30岁以下的人建立的。（严格来说，马克·扎克伯格[Mark Zuckerberg]在更年轻的时候就开发了Facebook，当时年仅19岁；20岁时他搬到加利福尼亚建立发展自己的公司。）有一类人的群体似乎在成倍增长：他们25岁左右就横扫业界；出任的职位一般只有岁数是他们两倍的人才能担当；而他们在社交媒体上几百万的粉丝眼睁睁地看着这一切成真。
So what is it about that youthful decade after those awkward teenage years that inspires such shoot-for-the-moon success? Does age really have something to do with it?
那么在度过尴尬的十几岁青葱岁月后，这紧接着的青春十年中到底是什么激发了这种“向月亮进发”（摘自赖斯·布朗名言：向月亮进发吧，即使不成功，你也会置身群星之中。——译注）的成功呢？年龄真的和这一切有关吗？
It does. And that leaves the rest of us — even those of us just a little older — at a bit of a disadvantage.
当然有关。这就让其余的人——甚至只是岁数稍微大一点的人——处于某种劣势。
The conventional wisdom is that young people bring fresh eyes and a new perspective to confronting problems and challenges that others have given up on. Michael Moritz of Sequoia Capital, a venture capitalist who backed Google, Yahoo and YouTube, once described the phenomenon of 20-something entrepreneurs as a generation of people “who see no boundaries, see no limits, see no obstacle that they can't hurdle — it is the most stimulating environment that you can ever be in.” Vinod Khosla, another venture capitalist, goes further. “People under 35 are the people who make change happen,” he said at an international conference. “People over 45 basically die in terms of new ideas.”
传统的智慧认为年轻人在面对他人已放弃的问题和挑战时有新鲜的看法和视角。红杉资本(Sequoia Capital)的迈克尔·莫瑞兹(Michael Moritz)是一位创业基金投资家，投资过的项目包括谷歌、雅虎和Youtube，他曾把“20多岁的企业家”这一现象描述为一代人“相信自己没有不能突破的界限、不能超越的极限和不能跨越的障碍——这是你能够体验的最激发人的感觉”。另一位创业基金投资家维诺德·柯斯拉(Vinod Khosla)更进一步。“35岁以下的人才是真正推动变革的人，”在一个国际会议中他讲道。“在创意方面，45岁以上的人基本上就死亡了。”
That may or may not be true, but it's only part of the story.
这或许是真的，或许不是，但这只说明了部分情况。
Peter Thiel, the co-founder of PayPal, and now an investor who was an early backer of Facebook, has another, colder theory that may explain it: Ultimately, it's about money.
现为投资家的彼得·蒂尔(Peter Thiel)是PayPal的创建人之一，也是Facebook成立初期的支持者。他有一个更冷酷的理论也许能解释这一切：最终，这都是因为钱。
“How many people do you know who said when they were young that they planned to work for a couple of years, put some money in the bank, so that they could later pursue their passion and start a new business or strike out on their own?” he asked me. “It almost never plays out that way in practice. What seems to happen is that after some period of time, people are making good money and they're typically spending all of it and it becomes really hard to dial that back. If you bought a house or have all sorts of obligations of one sort or another it may be very difficult.”
“你认识的人里有多少人都说过，年轻的时候准备先工作两年，银行里存点钱，然后去追求自己热爱的事业，创立一个新公司，或自己单干？”他问我。“现实中很少是那样的。似乎经常发生的是，经过一段时间，开始挣到不错的薪水后，一般就会把所有的钱都花了，所以很难倒退回去从头开始。如果买了房，肩负这样或那样的责任之后，就非常困难了。”
In other words, it's the young people who have nothing to lose, with no mortgage and, frankly, with nothing to do on a Friday night except work, who are the ones often willing to take the biggest risks. Sure, they are talented. But it's their persistence and zeal, the desire to stay up until 6 a.m. chugging Red Bull, that is the difference between being a salaried employee and an entrepreneur.
换句话说，正是一无所有的年轻人，没有分期贷款，坦率地说，在周五晚上，除了工作也没别的事，他们才愿意承担最大的风险。当然，他们也要有天分。但他们的坚持和激情，靠猛灌红牛熬通宵干到早上6点的意愿，才是领薪水的雇员和企业家之间的差别。
And with the steady march of technology, young people have gained an even greater sense of credibility among their elders — still worried that they themselves don’t “get it.” Since the 1960s, and especially since the rise of the computer era, older people have been more willing to give opportunities to the most talented 20-somethings as the office politics of old break down. Could this latest crop of entrepreneurial success stories have made it in a pre-Twitter era? Sure. But the rapidity of this digital age has hastened their ascent.
而随着科技的稳步发展，从那些总是担心自己“搞不懂”的岁数大的人身上，年轻人赢得了更多的信任。从上世纪60年代，特别随着电脑时代的兴起，旧式办公室政治解体，岁数大的人更愿意把机会让给20来岁但才华横溢的的年轻人。当前这批企业家成功的故事可能在前推特时代出现吗？当然会，但数码时代的阔步发展加速了他们的崛起。
That's not to say that most 20-somethings are finding success. They're not. The latest crop of über-successful young entrepreneurs, bloggers, designers and authors are far, far from the norm. In truth, unemployment for workers age 16 to 24 is double the national average. “Gen X” and “Gen Y” have far less wealth than their parents did at the same age, according to the Urban Institute.
当然，并不是大多数20多岁的人们都获得了成功。不是这样的。这批超级成功的年轻企业家、博客作者、设计师和作家完全不具代表性。事实上，16岁至24岁年轻人的失业率是全国平均失业率的两倍。城市研究所(Urban Institute)研究显示，和父母在相同的年龄时相比，X世代和Y世代拥有更少的财产。
One of the biggest challenges facing this next generation — and one that may prevent more visionary entrepreneurs from succeeding — is the staggering rise in the level of debt college students have been left with. If Thiel’s theory is right, it is going to be harder and harder for young people to take big risks because they will be crushed with obligations before they even begin.
新一代面临的最大挑战之一——这可能也是妨碍更多有远见的企业家成功的原因——就是大学生们面对不断提高的负债。如果蒂尔的理论是正确的，年轻人将越来越难以承担大风险，因为在开始之前，他们已经被各种责任压垮了。
If you’re over 29 years old and still haven't made your world-changing mark, don’t despair. Some older people have had big breakthroughs, too. Thomas Edison didn't invent the phonograph until he was 30.
如果你已经超过29岁，但还没有惊世成就，别灰心。有些岁数大的人仍能取得突破。托马斯·爱迪生(Thomas Edison)可是在30岁时才发明了留声机。
CHRIS HUGHES
克里斯·休斯(Chris Hughes)
Facebook co-founder; publisher and editor in chief of The new Republic
Facebook联合创始人、《新共和》(The New Republic)出版人兼总编
It was once said — by Michael Kinsley — that Al Gore was every old person’s idea of what a young person should be. It surely applies to The New Republic’s latest editor in chief and publisher, Chris Hughes. He was Mark Zuckerberg’s sophomore roommate at Harvard, a key bridge between the tech world and regular human beings, and made a fortune of hundreds of millions of dollars from his tiny share of the company. He moved on to lead the Obama campaign’s groundbreaking use of the Web in 2008.
迈克尔·金斯利(Michael Kinsley)曾说过，阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)是所有老年人心目中年轻人的模样。这句话的确也适用于《新共和》最新的总编兼出版人克里斯·休斯(Chris Hughes)。他是马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)在哈佛大学(Harvard)二年级时的室友，是连接技术世界和正常人之间的一条关键的纽带，他还从自己在该公司很小的股份中赚到了一大笔钱。他离开Facebook去帮助奥巴马(Obama)2008年的总统竞选，领导了使用网络展开竞选活动的开创性工作。
There’s a confidence about him that I certainly never had — when I, another young gay man, was handed the editorship of that august magazine at the age of 27. We’ve only met a couple of times in coffee shops and, despite my 20 years on him, I felt as if I were a kid talking with a grown-up. His hair is slicked down and neatly coiffed, his attire almost fogy, his young, clear, freckled face open.
他身上有一种自信，而我作为另一个年轻的同性恋男子，在27岁接任这一令人敬畏杂志的总编时，从来不具有那种自信。我们只在咖啡馆见过几次面，虽然我比他年长20岁，但我感觉和他交谈时像个孩子跟长者交谈似的。他的头发往下梳得光滑齐整，他的着装近乎守旧，他年轻、光洁、长着雀斑的脸一片坦诚。
Why on earth would an Internet multimillionaire rescue a boutique political and literary magazine that has almost always lost money? Hughes’s answer — he wants to “convene conversations” that help change the world — seems a little jejune, but sincere. There’s a vagueness that immediately evaporates when he turns to the object of his desire: “I love print,” he says. “Because it’s an incredible technology in its own right. It’s colorful, it’s cheap, it’s disposable, it’s sharable, it’s an object.” And when you pick up the new New Republic, you can see the love: the hefty solid paper pages, the superglossy cover, the thoroughly designed interior, the graphics, the use of art and photography in ways the magazine never aspired to before. Because it was too expensive.
究竟是什么原因让一个互联网富豪想要挽救一个几乎一直在赔钱的小众政治与文学杂志呢？休斯的回答似乎有点幼稚但却充满真诚，他希望能“召集对话”，为改变世界出点儿力。当他说到自己热衷的事情时，立刻驱散了一种含糊不清的感觉。他说，“我喜欢印刷。因为它本身就是一种令人难以置信的技术。印刷技术色彩丰富、便宜、用完即可丢弃、可以分享，而且是个实物。”当你拿起新的《新共和》杂志时就能看到这种热爱：厚重实在的纸页、超级光泽的封面、全部都经过设计的内里、杂志中的图片，连艺术和图片的使用方式也是这本杂志在以前从未想过的。因为这样做太昂贵了。
As The New Republic turns 100 next year, it says something about its 29-year-old editor that he is seeking to make new what was recently seen as the very definition of old: paper, print, words, meaning. He is the young person’s idea of what a publisher should be.
《新共和》在明年即将迈入其100周年，这本杂志道出了这位29岁的总编正在做的事情，他试图将一个近来被看作本身就是“老”的定义的东西打造一新：纸质、印刷、文字、意义。他是一个年轻人心中目出版人的模样。
HELEN OYEYEMI
海伦·欧耶米(Helen Oyeyemi)
Author of four novels, and the forthcoming "Boy, Snow, Bird"
四部小说以及即将出版的新作《男孩、雪、鸟》(Boy, Snow, Bird)的作者 
The daughter of Nigerian immigrants, Helen Oyeyemi, 28, wrote her first book, “The Icarus Girl,” when she was 18 and still in school. It was met by the British literary scene with amazement and respect. Since that debut, she has written three more novels, her latest being “Mr. Fox,” about a complicated love triangle between a narcissistic writer, his wife and his fictional muse. The book is a bold experiment in storytelling, combining realism and fabulism, humor and darkness, and a new take on folkloric fixtures like the murderous Bluebeard. It’s a heady brew, but Oyeyemi is so fluent with narrative that she seems to revel in its conventions and pick them apart at the same time, fragmenting and reframing in the manner of a Jeanette Winterson. Her age, as fun as it is to report, has really never been a window into her writing style. Besides, she’s seemed wise beyond her years from the very start. Her next book, “Boy, Snow, Bird,” exploring the archetype of the wicked stepmother, comes out in 2014 from Riverhead Books. “I’m still climbing around inside stories we all know, or think we know, and I’m enjoying that,” she says. Oyeyemi is modest about her rise. “The more forcibly I’m made aware of the fact that I’ll never be the kind of storyteller I most admire, the less I’ll be troubled by that,” she says. “I’ll probably just become more myself.”
来自尼日利亚移民家庭的海伦·欧耶米(Helen Oyeyemi)现年28岁，她18岁时创作了第一部小说《伊卡洛斯女孩》(The Icarus Girl)，那时她还在学校念书。那部小说令英国文学圈惊诧，也受到人们的重视。自从第一部小说亮相以来，她已经又完成了三部小说，最近的一部是《福克斯先生》(Mr. Fox)，这部小说讲述的是一段发生在一名自恋的作家、他的妻子以及他想象中的灵感女神之间复杂的三角恋爱。这部书在故事情节的叙述上做了大胆尝试，将现实主义与寓言故事、幽默与黑暗相结合，还给民间传说中的老东西、比如凶残的蓝胡子(Bluebeard)赋予新的演绎。这种写法有点令人晕眩，但欧耶米的叙事如此流畅，她似乎在沉醉于习俗的同时又大肆攻击之，用珍尼特·温特森(Jeanette Winterson)的方式将习俗拆裂重组。虽然她的年龄在新闻报道中很吸引眼球，但从来都不是审视她写作风格的一个窗口。而且，从一开始，她的智慧就似乎超出了她的年龄。她的新书《男孩、雪、鸟》对黑心继母的典型形象进行了探索，这部书将在2014年由河源出版社(Riverhead Books)出版。她说，“我仍在探索那些我们大家都熟悉、或认为熟悉的故事，我从中得到很多享受。”欧耶米对她的成功很谦虚。她说，“我越是清楚地意识到我永远也不会成为我所仰慕的那种讲故事者，就越不为此烦恼。我可能将变得更具有自己的风格。”
ALEXANDER WANG
王大仁(Alexander Wang)
Fashion designer of his namesake label; creative director of Balenciaga
拥有同名品牌的时装设计师、巴黎世家(Balenciaga)创意总监
As a teenager, Alexander Wang was working in a San Francisco boutique after school and remaking thrift finds for his sister and friends. “I’d hardly call them ‘hits’!” he says. Today, he sits atop a multimillion-dollar business that bears his name, and he was recently appointed the creative director of Balenciaga, one of the most storied French houses in the world. Skeptics of the 29-year-old designer might say that his press savviness, youthful good looks and Asian-American roots — after all, China is fashion’s next big frontier — have served him exceptionally well. But since he left the Parsons School of Design to introduce his own line in 2007, his swift ascendancy has been defined by a marked pragmatism that’s made him a success with retailers and women alike: capturing the nuances of urban cool with merchandise that’s delivered to stores on time at an accessible price. With his Alexander Wang label, he’s picked up the baton that Calvin Klein and Helmut Lang carried before him, infusing sportswear with an erotic edge that suggests there’s more to life than office rigmarole. At Balenciaga, stepping into Nicolas Ghesquire’s very big shoes, he’s proven he can do a lot more than dress the downtown set. In his debut, Wang has brought a demure elegance to Balenciaga’s architectural heritage, taking classic silhouettes like high-waisted petal skirts, molded peplums and oval-shouldered coats, and toughening them up with paint-crackled mohair, marbleized silk, punkish velvet lace and pristine ivory soutache. Excelling at two very high-profile jobs is a challenge, but this is where the boundless energy and risk-taking nature of youth is at its best. “I’m a believer in going out there, working for yourself and being very proactive in getting what you want,” Wang says.
十几岁时，王大仁(Alexander Wang)放学后会在旧金山的一家时装店工作，还会为他的姐姐和朋友们修改便宜的衣服。他说，“我可不会把它们称作‘畅销品’！”如今，他拥有价值数百万美元、以自己名字命名的品牌，最近还被任命为巴黎世家的创意总监，巴黎世家是世界上最为传奇的法国品牌之一。对这位29岁的设计师持怀疑态度的人可能会说，他在媒体面前的自如、年轻帅气的外貌，以及亚裔美国人的背景——中国毕竟是时尚业的下一个大市场——让他得到了优势。但自从2007年离开帕森斯设计学院(Parsons School of Design)，推出自己的品牌以来，他机敏的实用主义风格使他迅速赢得青睐，获得了零售商和女性的欣赏：捕捉到了城市时尚的微妙，而且商品能及时到店，价位也适中。王大仁让自己的品牌接过了之前由卡文克莱(Calvin Klein)和海尔姆特·朗(Helmut Lang)掌握的接力棒，为运动装注入了性感的意味，让人领悟到办公室的冗长工作不是生活的全部。在巴黎世家，王大仁接替了尼古拉·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)的重要职务，他证明了自己除了能为都市潮人设计服饰之外，还有更多才能。王大仁在自己的首秀中，为巴黎世家的造型传统增添了几分端庄优雅，使用了经典的廓形，比如高腰百褶裙、像是塑模制作的衬饰，以及肩部呈椭圆形的外套，又以另一些元素带来了硬朗的风格，如裂纹马海毛、大理石纹的丝绸、朋克风的丝绒蕾丝，以及洁净无瑕的象牙白腰带。胜任两份备受瞩目的工作是一个挑战，但这最能体现精力无限、勇于冒险的年轻天性。王大仁说，“我相信我们该走出去，为自己工作，主动争取自己想要的东西。”
BENNY BLANCO
本尼·布兰科(Benny Blanco)
Songwriter and music producer
词曲作者兼音乐制作人
There are a couple of ways to determine if that sound percolating out of your radio is a song by Benjamin Levin, the 25-year-old songwriter-producer who goes by the name Benny Blanco. First, there’s Blanco’s telltale sonic tang: the sugary chewiness of bubble gum, salty hip-hop, rock crunch and a sprinkling of other, often surprising musical ingredients. Then there’s the law of averages: if the radio’s on, it’s probably playing his song. In the last five years, Blanco has become one of pop’s most reliable creators of chart-topping records. He has co-written and co-produced dozens of hits, including 15 Billboard No. 1s, by some of the world’s top artists: Rihanna, Katy Perry, Kesha, Maroon 5, Britney Spears. It’s a startling track record for someone whose career began so unpromisingly as a third-rate would-be rapper. “I think somewhere along the way I realized, O.K., no one’s gonna care about a chubby Jewish dude rapping,” Blanco says. “I realized I’d be better behind the scenes.”
要判断收音机里传出的歌是不是25岁的词曲作者兼音乐制作人本杰明·莱文(Benjamin Levin)——艺名叫本尼·布兰科(Benny Blanco)——的作品，有好几个办法。首先，歌曲里应该有能表明是布兰科作品的声音特点：有泡泡糖香甜的嚼劲儿、粗口嘻哈的咸涩、摇滚乐的嘈杂，以及少许其他出人意料的音乐元素。然后是平均法则：如果收音机开着，就有可能是在放他的歌。在过去五年，布兰科已经成了流行音乐界里，最有可能创造排行榜冠军唱片的人之一。他曾参与创作和制作数十首流行曲目，其中包括15首登上了公告牌(Billboard)榜首，与他合作的是一些世界顶级歌手，比如蕾哈娜(Rihanna)、凯蒂·派瑞(Katy Perry)、卡莎(Kesha)、魔力红(Maroon 5)和布兰妮·斯皮尔斯(Britney Spears)。职业生涯初期，布兰科名不见经传，一心想成为一个三流说唱歌手，前景非常不被看好。对这样一个人而言，此番成就令人震惊。“我想，在这个过程的某个时间点上，我意识到，谁会在乎一个犹太胖墩儿的说唱啊，”布兰科说，“我意识到自己做幕后会更好。”
Blanco accomplished that career transformation in the time-honored manner of chubby Jewish dudes everywhere: with chutzpah. While still a teenager in the Virginia suburbs, he charmed — or rather fibbed — his way into the record industry. “I would cold-call record labels and pretend I was someone else,“ he says. “If I patched my way up to the top, I’d be like, ‘You’ve gotta listen to my mixtape!’ ” Eventually, he released a critically lauded collaboration with the Baltimore rapper Spank Rock, and came to the attention of the powerhouse songwriter-producer Dr. Luke, who installed Blanco as one of his go-to collaborators. The rest is Top 40 history. “It’s a great time to make music,” Blanco says. “It’s becoming harder and harder to decipher the line between indie, pop, country, alternative. On the radio, listeners want to be familiar with the sound that they’re like, ‘O.K. That doesn’t make me uncomfortable.’ But they also want to be like, ‘Daaaaamn! What’s that sound?’ ”
布兰科实现这种职业转型的方式有悠久的历史，世界各地的犹太胖子都在用这种方式，那就是“不要脸”。当他还是弗吉尼亚州一个郊区的十几岁少年时，他施展魅力——准确地说是通过撒小谎——让自己进入了唱片业。“我会很唐突地给唱片公司打电话，假装自己是其他人，”他说，“如果我联系上了高层，我就直接说，‘你得听听我的精选带！’”最终，他与巴尔的摩的说唱歌手斯庞克·罗克(Spank Rock)合作发行了一首被评论界大加称赞的作品，引起了实力雄厚的词曲作家兼制作人卢克博士(Dr. Luke)的注意，卢克博士就开始经常与他合作。剩下的，就是盘踞排行榜前40位的故事了。“做音乐让我很开心，”布兰科说。“越来越难弄清独立、流行、乡村、另类音乐之间的界限。在收音机上，听众们希望听到熟悉的风格。他们会说，‘挺好，听这个不会难受。’但他们也想要有这种反应，‘我去！那是什么音乐？’”
EZRA KLEIN
埃兹拉·克莱因(Ezra Klein)
Washington Post columnist; MSNBC and Bloomberg View contributor
《华盛顿邮报》专栏作家、MSNBC和《彭博视点》(Bloomberg View)撰稿人
Don’t ask Ezra Klein for a pithy anecdote about how he got to be America’s pre-eminent Wonkblogger. “I don’t really believe in background stories,” he says. What he believes in is data — so let’s start there. Klein’s Wonkblog, hosted by The Washington Post, gets more than 5 million page views a month. His chart- and graph-heavy analyses — like a recent 4,200-word dissection of a health care experiment for elderly Pennsylvanians — are routinely among the most popular stories on The Post’s Web site. Wonkblog is something of an experiment itself, out to prove that a quantitative approach to Washington can be compelling to a mass audience. “What we’ve been trying to do for a long time,” Klein says,“is figure out how to cover the political world through the lens of policy.” 
想让埃兹拉·克莱因(Ezra Klein)用一则简要的轶事，讲讲他通过什么方法成为了美国卓然不群的Wonkblog专栏作家？免了吧。“我不太相信背景故事。”他说。他相信的是数据——那么，我们就从数据讲起好了。克莱因在《华盛顿邮报》上的专栏Wonkblog，每个月的页面浏览量都会超过500万次。他的分析文章包含大量图表和图形，例子之一就是近期的一篇4200字文章，讲的是为宾夕法尼亚州老人开展的一项医保试验。他的文章照例会进入《华盛顿邮报》网站最热门文章之列。Wonkblog本身就是一个试验性栏目，目的是证明，对华盛顿的政治事务采用定量分析的方法，可以吸引大量受众。克莱因说：“很长一段时间以来，我们一直在尝试的事情，就是弄清如何透过政策的镜头来报道政界内容。”
“A long time” is relative; Klein is 29. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles in 2005 with a degree in political science and, more important, with hundreds of blog posts to his name. He blogged his way into a job at The American Prospect and then came the call from The Post, where Wonkblog will turn two in September.
“很长一段时间”是相对的：克莱因才29岁。他2005年毕业于加州大学洛杉矶分校，获得了政治学学位，更重要的是发表的博客文章成百上千。他通过写博客在《美国展望》杂志(American Prospect)找到了工作，随后又收到了《华盛顿邮报》的召唤，该报的Wonkblog到今年9月就两岁了。
What he wanted to do on his first day — make the “actual work of government” comprehensible — is what he does every day, almost as often on television (he’s a contributor and a frequent fill-in host on MSNBC) as on the Web. An MSNBC anchor slot seems inevitable, seeing as how the channel’s president, Phil Griffin, is among his biggest fans.
他工作第一天想做的工作——令“政府的实际工作”变得可以理解——成为了他每天都在做的工作，他的工作在电视上出现的频率几乎和在网上一样高（他是MSNBC的撰稿人，经常还客串主持人）。MSNBC新闻主播的职位似乎已是他的囊中之物，因为该频道的总裁菲尔·格里芬(Phil Griffin)是他最大的粉丝之一。
But what he sounds most excited about is grooming his fellow Wonkbloggers, all of whom, he swears, are smarter than he is. He lets out a laugh. “I didn’t think I would face obsolescence this quickly.”
不过，最让他兴奋的事情还是训练他的同辈Wonkblog博客作者。他发誓说，这些人都比他更聪明。他笑着说，“以前我倒没想到，我这么快就会被淘汰。”
SAMANTHA SHANNON
萨曼莎·香农(Samantha Shannon)
Author of a forthcoming literary fantasy series; college student
一个即将出版的文学幻想系列小说的作者、大学生
Could an unknown 21-year-old Oxford student named Samantha Shannon be the next J. K. Rowling? Three years ago, Shannon was an intern in the office of the prestigious London literary agent David Godwin. That experience came in handy when, less than a year later, she had a manuscript for “The Bone Season,” an ambitious novel, the first of a projected seven-part series, that she had somehow written between lectures. Blown away by the book’s inventiveness, Godwin promptly sent it to the editor in chief of Bloomsbury, Alexandra Pringle. “Seven hours later I was still reading it,” Pringle recalls. “I just fell completely in love.” Bloomsbury gave Shannon a six-figure advance for the first three books, an unprecedented show of support for such an untested first-time author. “The Bone Season,” which comes out in August, is about a 19-year-old clairvoyant named Paige Mahoney, who roams the streets of London, circa 2059, until the secret police send her off to a penal colony that looks a lot like Oxford. “Her imagination is so extraordinary,” Pringle says. “She reminds me of the Bront sisters — the world she’s created is absolutely real.” Book rights have sold in 18 countries, and three major studios fought over the movie rights. (Britain’s Imaginarium Studios beat out Hollywood.) Shannon, now in her last year at college, is juggling writing with her studies like she did for the first book. “I had to cut down on going out with my friends so I could squeeze in writing chapters,” she says. “There was a lot of coffee involved.”
牛津大学(Oxford student)默默无闻的21岁的学生萨曼莎·香农(Samantha Shannon)可能成为下一个J·K·罗琳(J. K. Rowling)吗？三年前，香农曾在伦敦赫赫有名的作家经纪人戴维·戈德温(David Godwin)的办公室当过一名实习生。不到一年后，当她写完《骨之季节》(The Bone Season)的手稿时，这一经历便派上了用场。这是一套预计七部的雄心勃勃的系列小说的第一部，她不知怎么居然能在课余时间写成了这部书。戈德温被该书的新颖所震惊，他马上将其寄给了布鲁姆斯伯里出版社(Bloomsbury)的主编亚历山德拉·普林格尔(Alexandra Pringle)。“七个小时后，我还在读它，”普林格尔回忆道，“我彻底地爱上了它。”布鲁姆斯伯里出版社为香农的前三部付了一笔六位数的预付款，这是对她这样的第一次写书的新手前所未有的支持。8月出版的《骨之季节》讲述的是一个19岁姑娘的故事，她叫佩奇·马奥尼(Paige Mahoney)，具有超自然能力。时间大约是2059年，她徘徊于伦敦的街头，直到被秘密警察送到一处流放地，那里看上去很像牛津大学。普林格尔说，“她的想象力如此的非同寻常，以至于让我想起了勃朗特姐妹。她创造的那个世界非常真实。”已经有18个国家买了书的版权，三家主要电影公司也为电影版权争夺不已。（英国的Imaginarium Studios打败了好莱坞）。如今，香农已进入大学的最后一年，她在应对学业的同时从事写作，就像她当初写第一部时那样。她说，“我必须减少与朋友出去玩的次数，才能挤出时间写上几章。还得喝很多咖啡。”
MIKE KRIEGER & KEVIN SYSTROM
迈克·克里格(Mike Krieger)和凯文·希斯特罗姆(Kevin Systrom)
Founders of Instagram
Instagram创始人
Compared to the many programming marvels clogging the iTunes App store in 2010, the offering unveiled by a pair of Stanford grads one October day didn’t really do that much. It simply let you take a picture with your smartphone (nothing novel about that) and post it online (ditto).
与2010年布满iTunes应用商店的很多神奇的编程作品相比，两名斯坦福大学(Stanford University)毕业生在10月的某一天推出的应用，功能真没那么多。这款应用只不过是能让你用智能手机拍照（一点也不新奇），然后将照片发布到网上（同样平平无奇）。
But putting these two commonplace functions together somehow made both of them feel fresh. It was, in the words of the Instagram founders Kevin Systrom, 29, and Mike Krieger, 26, “like a chemical reaction.”
但将这两个平平无奇的功能结合在一起，就使两项功能都显得焕然一新。用Instagram的创始人，29岁的凯文·希斯特罗姆(Kevin Systrom)和26岁的迈克·克里格(Mike Krieger)的话说，“就像是化学反应。”
Neither of the partners had a typical background in computer science or design. They describe themselves as “torn between the world of art and the world of technology.” But in that middle ground they struck pay dirt, and the product instantly became a breakthrough hit. Two years after its debut, the app was one of the iPhone’s most popular applications, with a user base nearing 30 million, success that prompted Facebook to scoop the company up for a reported $1 billion last spring.
这两名合作伙伴都没有常见的计算机科学或设计背景。他们称自己“面对着艺术世界和科技世界，感觉像是撕裂了”。但他们在这两个世界的地带却取得了成功，产品立即火了起来。在推出两年后，Instagram已经成为iPhone上最受欢迎的应用之一，用户规模接近3000万，这样的成功促使Facebook于去年春天收购了Instagram，据报道收购价为10亿美元（约合60.6亿元人民币）。
What was Instagram’s secret? Looking back, the founders made a few key design decisions that proved critical. First, they removed the choice of portrait (vertical) or landscape (horizontal) by limiting images to a square (both). Steve Jobs’s famous insight that good design is less about what’s added than what’s subtracted has never been more amply demonstrated. Second, Instagram let you “design” the emotional tone of a photo through instant effects — bringing the power of Photoshop filters to the mobile generation and giving the most mundane of snapshots the instant nostalgia of an old Polaroid.
Instagram的秘诀是什么？创始人做出过几个重要的设计决策，而事实证明，这些决策至关重要。首先，他们取消了照片横向和纵向的选择，将图像设置为正方形（既可以是横向，也可以是纵向）。史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)说过，好的设计更重要的是减掉什么，而不是增加什么，Instagram充分证明了这个著名的见解。其次，Instagram可以让你通过即时的效果，为照片“设计”情绪基调，将Photoshop滤镜功能，呈现给迷恋移动设备的一代人。即使是最平凡的照片，顷刻间也能显现出拍立得老照片的风格。
Instagram has transported users back to the carefree days when a single, simple button and the right subject matter was all you needed to share a magical moment with family and friends. It put good design in all of our hands, and helped us make our photos — maybe even our lives — seem a little more memorable.
Instagram把用户带回了无忧无虑的日子，只需要挑一个正确的主题，按一个简单的按钮，就可以与家人和朋友分享奇妙的时刻。它把好的设计送到我们每个人手中，让我们的照片，甚至生活，都显得更加难忘了。