Whenever government representatives from around the world meet, they’re often able to make progress in many areas of common interest: combating climate change, poverty, the drug trade, Islamic extremism, human trafficking and modern-day slavery, even cybercrime — the list is long. What these officials often fail to dwell upon is corruption. All of their nations suffer from it; they agree it’s a cancer of our age and should be stamped out. But they do precious little about it.
世界各国政府的代表们每次会面时，通常都能在许多有共同利益的方面取得进展，比如，对付气候变化、贫困、毒品贸易、伊斯兰极端主义、人口贩运和现代奴役，甚至打击网络犯罪等等，这个单子很长。这些官员们一般不考虑腐败问题。而所有国家都有这个问题；官员们一致认为腐败是我们这个时代的毒瘤，应当切除，但他们对这个问题几乎不采取任何措施。
This is bizarre, when you consider the scale of the problem. What is corruption? The Oxford English Dictionary defines it as “dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those in power.” And “by those in power” I would include those working for corporations and institutions that are part of the ruling elite.
这就奇怪了，尤其是当你认识到这个问题的规模之大。什么是腐败？《牛津英语词典》(Oxford English Dictionary)的定义是，“掌握权力者的不诚实或不正当行为。”我也把那些服务于企业或机构的、属于统治精英阶层的人包括在“掌握权力者”之列。
According to the Tax Justice Network, an independent group promoting efforts to curb tax avoidance, crooked business people, working with corrupt officials, have embezzled $30 trillion over the last 15 years — or half of the world’s annual gross domestic product.
根据税收正义网(Tax Justice Network)的数据，在过去15年中，在腐败官员的帮助下，奸商们累计侵吞了30万亿美元（约合182万亿元人民币），这相当于全世界年度生产总值的一半。税收正义网是一家致力于遏止避税的独立组织。
From China, nearly $4 trillion is thought to have disappeared between 2000 and 2011, much of it the profits of corruption, channeled into secret offshore financial havens. From Russia, the figure is close to $1 trillion. In the European Union, the total is put at $1.2 trillion.
2000年到2011年间，中国据认流失了近4万亿美元，其中大部分是腐败收益，这些钱流进了秘密的海外金融天堂。俄罗斯流失了接近1万亿美元。欧洲流失的总金额估计为1.2万亿美元。
In the West, the best-known figures linked to high-level fraud include Bernie Madoff, Allen Stanford, Jérôme Kerviel of Société Générale, Kweku Adoboli of UBS. And everyone knows of the subprime debt scandal and the criminal rigging of the Libor rate. In my country, Russia, there have been similar scams: the theft of $5 billion from Bank of Moscow; $4 billion from BTA Bank and AMT Bank; $4 billion from Rosukrenergo; $3 billion from Globex and Sviaz Bank; $2 billion from Russian Agricultural Bank; $1 billion from Rosagroleasing; and $1 billion from VEFK Bank.
在西方，与高端欺诈相联的最有名人物包括伯尼·麦道夫(Bernie Madoff)、阿伦·斯坦福(Allen Stanford)、法国兴业银行(Société Générale)的耶罗迈·科尔维尔(Jérôme Kerviel)、瑞银(UBS)的奎库·阿多博利(Kweku Adoboli)。而次级贷款丑闻和违法操纵伦敦银行间同业拆借利率(Libor)，已经尽人皆知。在我的国家俄罗斯，也有类似的欺诈：莫斯科银行(Bank of Moscow)50亿美元被窃走；图兰·阿列姆银行(BTA Bank)和AMT 银行(AMT Bank)丢了40亿美元；俄乌联合能源公司(Rosukrenergo)也是40亿美元；Globex和Sviaz银行(Globex and Sviaz Bank)30亿美元；俄罗斯农业银行(Russian Agricultural Bank)20亿美元；俄罗斯农机租赁公司(RosAgroLeasing)10亿美元；VEFK银行(VEFK Bank)10亿美元。
Many of the perpetrators of these scams have been able to move abroad, where they draw upon the expertise of what I term the “financial services oligarchy” of international banks, law firms and accountants to ensure they can continue to live off the proceeds of their crimes. Some, like Andrei Borodin, former chief executive of Bank of Moscow, have been granted political asylum (Mr. Borodin, in Britain).
许多这些欺诈案的作案者都已经移居国外，他们在那里利用我称之为“金融服务寡头”的国际银行、法律事务所以及会计师的专业知识，来确保他们能继续享受犯罪得来的进款。其中一些人，比如莫斯科银行的前总裁安德雷·博罗丁(Andrei Borodin)已经获得了政治庇护（博罗丁在英国）。
Sergei Pugachev, owner of the bankrupt Mezhprombank; Viktor Khrapunov, former mayor of Almaty, Kazakhstan; and the wife of Yuri Luzhkov, former mayor of Moscow, have all settled freely in the European Union or Switzerland, where they enjoy super-rich lifestyles. They contend that in their home countries they would be persecuted for their political views — though not much was known about their politics until they moved overseas; even if they were involved in politics at all, they tended to align themselves with the ruling powers.
破了产的国际工业银行(Mezhprombank)拥有者谢尔盖·普加乔夫(Sergei Pugachev)、卡萨克斯坦阿拉木图前市长维克托·赫拉普诺夫(Viktor Khrapunov)、以及莫斯科前市长尤里·卢日科夫(Yuri Luzhkov)的妻子等人都在欧盟国家或瑞士自由地生活着。他们说在自己原来的国家里，他们会因自己的政治观点而受到迫害，虽然在他们移居国外以前，人们并不太了解他们的政治；即使他们真的参与了政治，往往也是站在掌权者那边。
Various nations have launched initiatives to tackle corruption. But these moves ignore the international, cross-border nature of the problem: Recovering stolen assets inevitably involves some degree of cooperation with another jurisdiction. But countering this is an entire industry devoted to helping people hide their wealth overseas, far from the prying eyes of the authorities. If governments want to have any chance of recovering what has been lost, they must join together to create an international anticorruption force, along the lines of Interpol, to defeat these financial oligarchs.
不少国家都已经采取了反腐败的行动。但是这些行动忽略了腐败问题的国际性和超越边界性：追回流失资产不可避免地需要与他国司法部门有某种程度的合作。然而，对付反腐败努力的是致力于帮助人们在海外隐藏财富的一整套行业，让政府的调查鞭长莫及。如果各国政府希望能追回本国流失的财产的话，就必须联合起来创建一个与国际刑事警察组织(Interpol)类似的国际反腐败力量，以此来打败那些金融寡头。
The new organization should have wide powers. It would not, however, be expensive to run (my estimate is about $70 million a year). Its remit would be to raise awareness about corruption; explain why it matters; and cross national borders to seize suspects and assets.
这个新机构应该拥有广泛的权力。但其运行经费不需很高（我估计一年在7000万美元左右）。这一机构的职责将包括提高对腐败的警觉，解释为什么反腐败很重要，以及跨国抓捕嫌疑人 、收回资产。
To lead the force, I would appoint a person of global credibility and stature. (Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown would be an excellent choice.) The leader’s mandate would be straightforward: to tackle corruption in the hopes that those planning to deceive their countrymen, to purloin valuable funds, would desist.
我会任命一位在全球享有信誉和声望的人来领导这个机构。（英国前首相戈登·布朗[Gordon Brown]会是个不错的选择。）这个领导人的使命十分简单：打击腐败，让那些策划欺骗本国人民、盗窃大笔资金的人打消邪念。
Without such a body, it is difficult to see how the battle against corruption can be won. Ranged against national police forces and investigators is an entire corps of professional advisory firms well-versed in assisting those who want to put their wealth beyond the authorities’ reach. Aiding and abetting those who have committed fraud are offshore tax havens that structure their laws to help those seeking total secrecy and security. This oligarchy can be broken only if governments fight like with like — by creating a well-equipped sleuthing agency that is not afraid of anybody or aligned with any particular nation.
没有这样一个机构，很难看出反腐败的努力怎样才能成功。与国内警察和调查者抗衡的是一大批专业咨询公司，他们精通如何帮助那些想转移财富的人，使其财富逃避本国政府的管辖。协助和怂恿这些犯有诈骗罪者的，是那些海外避税天堂，这些地方的法律是为帮助寻求绝对保密和安全的人制定的。只有各国政府一起以其人之道还治其人之身，才能打败这个金融服务寡头，这就需要成立一个不惧怕任何人、也不与任何一个国家结盟的齐全的调查机构。
Unlike the United Nations and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, an international anticorruption body would move fast and be flexible. At present, if someone steals $1 billion and heads for an offshore haven, it is practically impossible to take legal action against him or her. Recovery of the funds is even more unlikely; it would take years and cost a fortune.
与联合国和欧洲复兴开发银行(European Bank for Reconstruction and Development)不同，国际反腐败机构应能快速行动，并具有一定的灵活性。在目前的情况下，如果有人偷走10亿美元逃往一个海外避税天堂的话，基本上不可能对此人采取任何法律措施。追回资金的可能性就更小了，而且需要很长的时间，成本极高。
We have to take the fight to the criminals and their well-paid, well-connected helpers. When a major corruption scandal erupts, there are predictable howls of rage. But ask yourself: How many of the perpetrators are ever caught, how much of the profits are ever recovered?
我们必须与这些罪犯，以及他们收入颇丰、人脉甚广的帮手们进行斗争。每当曝出腐败丑闻，可想而知民众会怒不可遏。但请问问自己：有多少作恶者最终被抓获，又有多少利润最终被追回？
We’ve seen a slew of these cases in recent years. As transferring money and communications get quicker and easier, there’s no doubt such fraud is on the increase. The sums of money involved are also growing just as fast.
近几年来我们看到了很多类似的案件。随着资金转移和通讯变得更快、更容易，毫无疑问这种不法行为是在增加。涉及资金的总金额也同样在快速增长。
We need to put a stop to this. Governments around the world are struggling to raise funds to counter the global downturn, but they can’t simply keep increasing taxes on the middle- and higher-income brackets. Rather, they must pursue cash anywhere they can — and one source has to be the proceeds of corruption. (After all, in many cases, it’s government money that was spirited away in the first place.)
我们应当改变这种局面。世界各国政府都在举步维艰地筹措资金，以对抗全球经济下行，但他们肯定不能总是对中等收入或高收入阶层增税，而是要在任何可能的地方索回资金，其中一个来源就是腐败的赃款。（毕竟在很多情况下，被窃取的从一开始就是政府的钱。）
I propose a relatively cheap, effective solution to one of the world’s most pressing issues: an international body to police corruption. And we must have it now, not at some date far into the future. It’s our money — and we want it back.
我为全世界最紧迫的问题，提出一个相对廉价、高效的解决方案：建立一个惩治腐败的国际机构。我们当下就需要这样的机构，不能等到遥远未来的某一天。那都是我们的钱，我们想把钱拿回来。