Opinion is divided over who won the last Democratic debate, Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders. And polls are awfully close in Iowa.
人们对于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)谁赢得了上一场民主党辩论有不同的看法。艾奥瓦州的投票非常接近。
But in one area at least, Mrs. Clinton appears to have already triumphed: She has finally, 23 years after she first stepped onto the national stage as first lady, stopped the conversation about her clothes.
但是至少在一个方面，克林顿似乎已经胜利了：在她作为第一夫人初次登上全国舞台23年之后，她终于结束了人们关于她服装的讨论。
Consider: During and after the debate on Sunday, there was, for the first time I can remember, barely a whisper about what she wore. Can you even remember what it was? It was so nondescript, it was just not cause for comment.
你想一下：在周日（1月17日）的辩论过程当中以及辩论结束之后，几乎没有任何关于她服装的议论——我印象里这种情况是第一次出现。你还记得她那天穿什么衣服吗？毫无特色，完全引不起人们的评论。
(And, yes, I know I am contradicting my point by writing about this, but consider it the exception that proves the rule.)
（是的，我知道，我写这篇文章就是自相矛盾，但你可以把它看做是证明这一规律的特例。）
That’s pretty extraordinary, given our obsession with whatever anyone in the public eye — red carpet celebrities, royalty, even criminals — puts on their backs. Last week, the news broke that the shirt El Chapo wore in his Sean Penn video had sold out online, and a hoo-ha was created recently when Marco Rubio wore some fancy footwear (which also sold out online).
这种情况很特殊，因为我们对所有公众人物的着装都很着迷，包括红毯名人、皇室成员，甚至罪犯。上周，有新闻报道说，绰号“矮子”(El Chapo)的毒枭接受西恩·潘(Sean Penn)采访时所穿的衬衫在网上已经脱销了；前不久，马尔科·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)穿的时髦鞋子引起轰动（这些鞋子在网上也卖脱销了）。
But here’s a sacrilegious thought: Is Mrs. Clinton’s achievement one we should be celebrating? Has she won the battle, but not the real war?
不过，我产生了一个不该有的想法：我们应该庆祝克林顿的这一成功吗？她是不是赢得了这场战斗，却输掉了真正的战争？
I know that as a woman I should be lauding the end of reductionism-by-fashion, the idea that finally a female of high achievement seeking high office is being judged not by what she wears but by what she says. But I can’t help feeling that something important had been sacrificed in the process; that this isn’t necessarily a giant leap forward, but a kind of chassé to the side.
我知道，作为一个女人，我应该称赞时尚简化论的终结，庆贺人们在面对一个取得巨大成就并在寻求要职的女人时，终于不是依据着装，而是通过她所说的话来作出评判。但我难免觉得，在这个过程中，一些重要的东西被牺牲掉了，这不一定是巨大的飞跃，而是一种侧滑。
After all, how did she escape the issue of clothes? By taking a page from her opponents’ playbook and making it her own. By boring everyone into silence.
毕竟，她是怎么避免人们议论她的服装的呢？是通过效仿对手的着装。是通过选择无趣的服装，无趣到所有人都无话可说。
Since her campaign kickoff rally last summer in a tone-on-tone suit of cerulean blue, Mrs. Clinton has been shedding the sartorial markers she acquired when she first ran for the Senate and settled on a uniform of gumdrop-bright pantsuits that combined functionality with the conventional political wisdom that clothes are one way women can stand out in a crowd. (See: Queen Elizabeth II, Angela Merkel.) But increasingly her choices have become notably muted.
去年夏天克林顿身穿一身天蓝色套装参加竞选启动集会，后来她慢慢抛弃了自己的服装特色。那一特色是她第一次竞选参议员时奠定的，当时她穿了一身鲜亮的水果色裤套装，将功能性与传统政治智慧（服装是女性在人群中脱颖而出的方法）结合到一起（比如女王伊丽莎白二世[Queen Elizabeth II]和安格拉·默克尔[Angela Merkel]）。不过后来，她的服装明显暗淡了很多。
First debate: navy collarless suit, white tunic. Second debate: black pantsuit, black scoop-neck shirt. Third debate: neutral burlap-like coat jacket, khaki trousers. Fourth debate: black suit, blue shirt.
第一次辩论时，她穿的是深蓝色无领套装和白色上衣。第二次辩论时穿的是黑色长裤套装和黑色汤匙领衬衫。第三次辩论时穿的是中性粗麻布状外套和卡其裤。第四次辩论时穿的是黑色套装和蓝色衬衫。
Indeed, the outfit Mrs. Clinton wore on Sunday was almost indistinguishable from those of Mr. Sanders and the other debater, former Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley. Both of them wore similar dark suits and blue ties, with Mr. O’Malley in a white shirt and Mr. Sanders in blue. They were so matchy-matchy that if you did not know they were opponents, you might have thought they were teammates.
的确，周日克林顿穿的套装几乎和桑德斯及另一位辩论者马里兰州前州长马丁·奥马利(Martin O’Malley)没有区别。他俩穿着类似的黑色西服，打着蓝色领带，只不过奥马利穿的是白衬衫，桑德斯穿的是蓝衬衫。他俩穿得太协调了，如果你不知道他们是对手，可能还会以为他们是队友呢。
Gone were the tangerines and the verdant greens; the grape and the lemon yellow; the cherry, fuchsia and turquoise that once characterized her suit choices. There have been occasional bursts of red and blue, but they are now more the exception than the rule. She has almost, seemingly, tied herself not just to some of the policies of her former boss, President Obama, but also to his sartorial strategy: wear only gray or blue suits, every day.
橘色和翠绿色不见了；深紫红和柠檬黄不见了；樱桃红、紫红色和青绿色不见了。她套装的这些代表颜色都不见了。偶尔也会突然出现红色和蓝色，但是现在这些颜色更多的属于例外，而非常规。她似乎不仅把自己与前上司奥巴马总统的某些政策捆绑到一起，而且与他的服装策略也捆绑到了一起：每天都只穿灰色或蓝色套装。
Gone is the big strand of costume pearls Mrs. Clinton wore at the second debate, which made all sorts of subliminal associations with first ladies from Jacqueline Kennedy to Barbara Bush and Michelle Obama, and which seemed an oblique reference to her own time in the White House. They have been retired in favor of subtler pieces that barely register on the bling-o-meter.
克林顿在第二次辩论中佩戴的那一大串配套的珠宝也不见了，那串珠宝与从杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)、芭芭拉·布什(Barbara Bush)到米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)等第一夫人们有着各种潜在的联系，似乎是在隐晦地暗示她本人在白宫的时光。那些珠宝也下岗了，取而代之的是更细微的配饰，一点也不惹人注目。
That this happened at the same time Mrs. Clinton was being attacked for being too cozy with the 1 percent on Wall Street (thereby depriving her competitors of ammunition from her own wardrobe) could just have been a lucky coincidence. But either way, it’s a telling one. Now there’s nothing to say. There’s barely anything to see.
这种转变发生之时，正值有人指责克林顿过于讨好华尔街那1%的人群（她的对手们倒是因此免受她的特色服装所形成的火力冲击），这也许只是一个幸运的巧合。但是不管怎样，这很明显。现在没什么好议论的了。也几乎没什么好看的了。
I respect that. I think it’s a pretty good example of her ability to take the temperature of the times and figure out how to solve the problem presented to her, a useful attribute in a president. But at the same time, I can’t help being a little sorry about it. Because in sapping her clothes of potentially controversial content, Mrs. Clinton has also sapped them of personality.
我尊重那一点。我承认，这是一个很好的例子，表明她有能力把握时代的脉搏，找出解决问题的办法——对做总统来说，这是一个有用的特质。但是与此同时，我忍不住感到有点遗憾。因为她在摆脱服装可能引起的争议时，也丢掉了它的个性。
Yes, she does not look like a fruit basket anymore. And maybe she was really a black suit type all along. But whereas the quirkiness of her rainbow-clothing coalition gave humor to her policy-wonkitude, her clothes now say she will do what’s necessary to get the job (i.e., getting elected) done. Fair enough. But they say nothing about her tastes, her sense of humor, her idiosyncrasies. They do not humanize her. They do not suggest multiple dimensions.
是的，她的确看起来不再像一个水果篮。也许她一直以来其实都是黑西服那一类型的。然而，尽管过去她五颜六色的奇特服装给她政策专家的形象增添了一丝幽默感，但是现在她的服装表明，为了实现目标（赢得大选），她什么都愿意做。有道理。但是，这些衣服不能体现她的品味、幽默感和独特气质，不能展现她的人情味和多面性。
Invert the clothing equation and it becomes a weapon you can use, as opposed to one used on you. And a pretty powerful one, especially for a woman.
把这个服装方程式反过来。它可以成为你的武器，而不是用来对付你的武器。而且它是一个非常有力的武器，尤其对女性来说。
Mrs. Clinton seemed to understand this at the beginning of her campaign, with her Instagram joke about “hard choices” accompanying a red, white and blue pantsuit array, with her asides about dyeing her hair, even with her scrunchies, once upon a State Department time. She seemed to see fashion and our obsession with what our role models wear as opportunity and tool, or at least to have come round to that view, after carping early on about unfair gender-related focus.
克林顿似乎从选战之初就明白这一点：她在Instagram上发了一张包含一系列红、白、蓝裤套装的照片，并开玩笑说：“艰难的选择”；任国务卿期间，她还聊到染头发甚至发圈的事。她似乎看出时尚以及我们对楷模着装的痴迷是一种机会和手段，或者至少，最初她是抱怨人们太过关注与性别相关的东西，觉得这不公平，但是后来她明白了这一点。
That to me was the biggest advance: not complaining about fashion, not denying it, not ignoring it, but milking it for what it was worth. For what it could do for you: support your message. Underscore it. Add to it.
在我看来，那是最大的进步：不再抱怨时尚，不拒绝它，不忽视它，而是榨取它的价值。利用它为你做事：支持你的观点，强调它，补充它。
People are interested in clothes. So what? They want to talk about them? Fine, let’s talk. If that’s the way to grab attention and engage — if that’s an entry point to a broader conversation and deeper connection — it’s at least as valid as discussions about, say, what sub sandwich is your favorite.
人们对服装感兴趣。那又怎样？他们想谈论服装？好啊，咱们谈吧。如果它能引起关注，让人们参与进来——如果它能成为一个切入点，展开更广泛的谈话，建立更深的联系——那么它至少和讨论你最喜欢什么样的潜艇三明治一样有效。
And that is a lesson worth learning, one I would pass on to my daughters. It is one I wish female politicians — and I hope there will be more and more of them — would learn (male, too, for that matter). But it’s no longer being taught.
这是一个值得学习的经验，我会把这个经验传给女儿们。我希望女政治家们——我希望将来有更多的女政治家——能学习这个经验（从这一点上讲，男政治家也一样）。但是现在没人教了。
There are miles and months to go before the Democratic convention, even more until the general election. Things could change. Winning could give Mrs. Clinton the confidence to play a little — or, conversely, convince her that bland is the way to go. (Losing comes with its own set of lessons.)
在民主党全国大会之前还有很长的道路，还有好几个月，总统大选更是遥远。情况可能会变化。胜利可能会让克林顿有信心稍微利用一下服装——或者，也可能相反，让她确信平淡无奇是正确的做法（失败会带来另一套教训）。
Either way, she makes history. And she has the opportunity to change it. To really solve the clothing problem by showing that it’s not a problem.
不管怎样，她在创造历史。她有机会改变它。要真正解决服装问题，最好的办法就是表明，它不是个问题。
It’s a platform, by another name.
换句话说，它是个平台。