Once in a while, if you’re lucky, and paying the right kind of attention, events align to give you a clear view of the future. In 1995, I was in Los Angeles staying with a friend who produced independent films and had the trade magazines Variety and The Hollywood Reporter delivered to his door early each morning. One day, the front page headlines trumpeted New Line Cinema’s plan to distribute Jackie Chan’s latest film, Rumble in the Bronx, in the U.S.  I’d recently begun contributing to The New York Times Magazine, and so I called my editor. “There’s a guy in Hong Kong,” I told him. “You’ve probably never heard of him, but he’s going to be huge. I think you should send me there to write about him.”
有时候，如果你走运，并给予正确的关注，那么事情就会一件接一件地给你指明未来的方向。1995年，我在洛杉矶呆在一个制作独立电影的朋友家里，每天一大早他订的专业杂志《Variety》和《好莱坞报道》(Hollywood Reporter)便会送到门口。一天，头条新闻是新线电影公司(New Line Cinema)决定在美国上映成龙最新影片《红番区》(Rumble in the Bronx)。那时候，我刚开始在《纽约时报杂志》(New York Times Magazine)工作，就打电话给编辑。我对他说，“香港有个人。你可能没有听说过，但他将来会大红大紫。我觉得你应该派我去香港，写一篇关于他的文章。”
I’d guessed correctly—the editor, who was knowledgeable on a wide range of subjects, had never heard of Jackie Chan. Despite Chan’s ubiquity across Asia and the real pandemonium that resulted anytime he made public appearances in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Japan, there was no World Wide Web yet in 1995, no Wikipedia, and no YouTube where one could easily call up scenes from films or appearances on talk shows. So it took some convincing—VHS tapes of Chan’s movies and copies of articles that had appeared about him in the cinephile press—but I got the assignment and went to Hong Kong that summer to accompany him for three weeks during the shooting of Thunderbolt, a street-racing action thriller whose $HKD 200 million budget made it the most expensive Hong Kong film had ever produced. My piece—a profile, attempting to encapsulate Chan’s extraordinary story, his unique talents as a performer and filmmaker, his popularity across Asia, and the perils he faced in trying to win acceptance among moviegoers in the West—appeared in the magazine in January of 1996, and helped introduce Chan to the U.S.
我猜对了，这个编辑虽然涉猎很广，但没有听说过成龙这个人。尽管成龙红遍亚洲，任何时候他在香港、台湾和日本公开亮相都会引发轰动，但万维网在1995年刚刚起步，那时没有维基百科(Wikipedia)，也没有YouTube这样的视频网站，能让人们轻易检索电影片段或者脱口秀上的亮相。所以我需要花一点说服的功夫：成龙电影的录像带，还有电影媒体上关于他的报道，最终我得到这一任务，在那年夏天去香港跟着他度过3个星期。当时他正在拍摄《霹雳火》(Thunderbolt)，这部街头赛车动作片的预算是2亿港元，是当时投资最高的香港电影。我的文章于1996年1月份在杂志上发表，是一篇人物特写，试着浓缩成龙不同凡响的人生故事，包括他作为演员和制作人的独特才华、在亚洲各国的极高人气，以及他在试图赢得西方观众时面临的困难，这篇文章也帮助把成龙介绍给了美国。
In the the late ‘80s and early ‘90s, cities like New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and San Francisco were fantastic places to experience the golden age of Jackie Chan, John Woo, Tsui Hark, and the overall florescence of populist Hong Kong cinema. In New York, where I lived, you could see films both at Chinatown cinemas and revival houses, and the video emporia of Chinatown would sell you cheap VHS copies dubbed from the laserdisc releases of all the latest films.
20世纪80年代末和90年代初，纽约、洛杉矶、芝加哥和旧金山等城市是体验成龙、吴宇森、徐克乃至整个香港大众电影全盛期的极佳地方。在我生活的纽约，当时人们可以在唐人街的影院和保留经典影片的电影院里看到这些电影，还可以在唐人街卖视频的百货商场买到所有新片的廉价盗版录像带。
I had come to Chan not because I was a kung fu geek, but because from childhood I’d loved Charlie Chaplin, Buster Keaton, and the clowns of silent cinema. The so-called “New Vaudevillian” performers of the ‘80s—Bill Irwin, The Flying Karamazov Brothers, Blue Man Group—and modern dance troupes like MOMIX, ISO, and Martha Clarke, who did pieces oriented toward pop spectacle, had gotten me excited about new ways to continue this tradition. When the New York Film Festival saw fit to include Chan’s Police Story in its 1987 program, I’d seen in Chan’s exuberant physical virtuosity a thoroughly modern, unaffected, and mainstream way to blend comedy, acrobatics, and dance to amazing and uproarious result.
我选择成龙并不是因为我是个功夫迷，而是因为我从小就喜欢查理·卓别林(Charlie Chaplin)、巴斯特·基顿(Buster Keaton)和默片里的小丑。20世纪80年代那些所谓的“新杂耍”(New Vaudevillian)演员，比利·欧文(Bill Irwin)、卡拉马佐夫兄弟搞笑四人组(The Flying Karamazov Brothers)、蓝色三人组(Blue Man Group)，以及现代舞蹈团MOMIX、ISO，以及表演流行演出的玛莎·克拉克(Martha Clarke)，让我对延续这一传统的新手法感到激动。当纽约电影节(New York Film Festival)在1987年引入成龙的《警察故事》(Police Story) 时，我在成龙身手不凡的表演中，看到了他将喜剧、杂技和舞蹈用一种完全现代、不矫揉造作和主流的方式融合起来，让人在惊叹之余捧腹不已。
Hollywood too had fallen in love with Hong Kong action and style, shamelessly plundering daredevil stunts, gags, even entire action sequences from Hong Kong films. The producer Barry Josephson, who started out in the ‘80s working for the action/thriller impresario Joel Silver (Lethal Weapon, Die Hard, The Matrix) once told me that Silver tasked a small crew of people to go through Chan’s and other Hong Kong filmmakers’ work on laserdiscs and create “greatest hits” reels of action and fight sequences for his directors and writers to study and crib from. (In some sense this was returning a favor: Hong Kong stuntmen took inspiration from Hollywood practices they observed during the 1966 location shooting of Robert Wise’s Boxer Rebellion drama The Sand Pebbles; Hong Kong makers of gangster movies had also studied carefully and then extravagantly sampled the innovative shootout sequences in Brian De Palma’s Scarface and Michael Cimino’s Year of the Dragon; and even Jackie Chan had remade the Frank Capra chestnut Pocketful of Miracles.)
那时，好莱坞也开始迷起了香港的武打动作和风格，厚着脸皮从香港电影剽窃了惊心动魄的特技、插科打诨，甚至是整套动作镜头。 曾在20世纪80年代靠给动作惊悚片大腕人物乔尔·西尔弗(Joel Silver)（《致命武器》[Lethal Weapon]、《虎胆龙威》[Die Hard]、《黑客帝国》[The Matrix]）工作起家的制片人巴里·约瑟夫森(Barry Josephson)告诉我，西尔弗曾让一小组人观摩成龙和其他香港制作人的作品影碟，并将其中最精彩最成功的动作和打斗镜头剪辑出来，供他的导演和编剧研究模仿。（从某种意义上来说，这也是一种礼尚往来：香港特技设计者也曾在1966年罗伯特·怀斯[Robert Wise]的《圣帕罗号炮艇》[The Sand Pebbles]实景拍摄时，观摩好莱坞的做法，从中汲取灵感；香港黑社会电影的制作人还曾仔细研究、然后夸张借鉴布赖恩·德帕尔马(Brian De Palma)的《疤面人》[Scarface]和迈克尔·奇米诺[Michael Cimino]的《龙年》[Year of the Dragon]中创新的枪战镜头；就连成龙自己也曾翻拍弗兰克·卡普拉[Frank Capra]的经典影片《锦囊妙计》[Pocketful of Miracles]。）
My weeks in Hong Kong afforded me an intimate glimpse of Chan’s life and working methods. It was a momentous time to be observing and talking to him: he had the deal with New Line, the William Morris Agency (now known as WME), signed him and this meant he had a real shot at becoming a global superstar. Chan is not normally inclined to reflection. But on a couple of occasions after the day’s shooting had ended, he spoke late into the night with me about what it all meant and what he hoped for his career.
在香港度过的几周让我有机会近距离一瞥成龙的生活和他的工作方法。那是观察他、并和他交谈的重大时间点：当时他已与新线电影公司合作，而威廉姆·莫里斯公司(William Morris Agency)（现叫WME）也已和他签约，这意味着他有着成为国际超级影星的好机会。成龙不是那种经常深思的人，但有那么一、二次，他会在一天的拍摄结束后，和我谈到深夜，讲这一切的意义以及他对自己事业的希望。
Last week, when Chan came to the U.S. on a promotional tour that included a stop at Asia Society, it was as someone for whom the intervening eighteen years had pretty much fulfilled the promise of that moment. Chan has become a global icon, a figure of incontestable international bonhomie, and a funnyman and action maestro whose art transcends language and culture. The U.S. success of Rumble, and, subsequently, that of the Rush Hour franchise (its three films have grossed over $1 billion in ticket sales around the world) established him as a star in the Hollywood pantheon, a true successor to Bruce Lee in the U.S. as well as at home, the only Chinese figure in popular culture who’s not regarded as some sort of imported novelty.
上周成龙前来美国进行商业宣传之旅，并曾到美国亚洲协会(Asia Society)，从当年到现在，这18年似乎基本上兑现了他那时的期许。成龙已是国际名人，具有不可撼动的国际地位，他作为喜剧和功夫大师的表演超越了语言和文化之间的隔阂。《红番区》和之后拍摄的《尖峰时刻》(Rush Hour)系列（其三部电影的全球票房总收入超过10亿美元）在美国取得的成功，为他奠定了好莱坞明星的地位，在美国和中国都被视为李小龙(Bruce Lee)的真正继承人，也是流行文化中唯一没有被认为是某种引进的新事物的中国明星。
The ‘90s saw Chan publish his autobiography and make a feature-length documentary, both making the details of his extraordinary rags-to-riches story well-known in the West. He became a regular on Letterman, Leno, and Jimmy Kimmel; a sought-after advertising pitchman; and the star of his own kids’ cartoon show. And he did so without leaving Asia behind. Parallel to his Hollywood output, Chan kept up producing, starring in, and sometimes directing Hong Kong films. He stretched out into drama, romance, and comedy, and oversaw an even more widespread branding empire and a charitable foundation that gives to children’s causes, medical services, and disaster relief efforts. He remains now, as he was when I met him, an absurdly busy human, ever in motion, a jolly goodwill ambassador for both Hong Kong and the mainland who seems never to sit down to a dinner that isn’t some sort of ceremonial banquet.
成龙在90年代发表了自传和一部故事片长度的纪录片，细述了西方熟悉的那种白手起家的了不起的故事。他成了莱特曼(Letterman)、莱诺(Leno)和吉米·基梅尔(Jimmy Kimmel)节目的常客；一个炙手可热的广告代言人；还是自己的儿童卡通节目主角。在做这一切的同时，他并没有抛下亚洲。他一方面在好莱坞拍片，另一方面还继续制作、领衔表演香港电影，有时还做导演。他扩大了影片题材的范围，涉足剧情片、浪漫片和喜剧片，还建立起一个不断扩张的品牌运作帝国，以及一个捐助儿童事业、医疗服务以及救灾工作的慈善基金会。他现在依然和我当年见到他时一样忙个不停，是香港和中国内地的亲善使者，每顿晚餐似乎都要参加某个庆典晚宴。
Which is not to say there has not been an embarrassing outtakes reel. While Chan devotes himself to the charity foundation that bears his name, and gives his time and face to humanitarian aid and public cleanliness campaigns, fans have been chagrined to see the Chinese tabloid press—who, as a rule, make Rupert Murdoch’s infamous “Page Six” seem as decorous as The New York Review of Books—revel in Chan’s episodes ofpublic drunkenness, the “Dragon Seed” scandal in which actress Elaine Ng Yi-Lei gave birth to Chan’s extramarital daughter, derogatory comments about Chan’s son Jaycee’s show business career, and the time paparazzi thought they'd caught him in a make-out session with mainland superstar actress, director, and blogger Xu Jinglei.
这并不是说他没有过尴尬时刻。尽管成龙投身于挂着自己名字的慈善基金会，为人道主义救援和公共清洁运动贡献自己的时间和形象，但粉丝们气愤地看到中文八卦小报大肆渲染的内容：成龙在公开场合醉酒、他和女演员吴绮莉生下私生女的“龙种”丑闻、对成龙的儿子房祖名演艺事业的贬义评论、还有狗仔队以为抓到他和内地女演员、导演和博客作者徐静蕾在一起的情景。这些八卦小报会让鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)旗下《纽约邮报》臭名昭著的八卦版面“第六页”(Page Six)看上去就像《纽约书评》(New York Review of Books)一样高雅。
Of even greater interest and occasional cause for concern has been the mainland’s deployment of Chan to advance Chinese soft power. The Communist annexation of Chan may turn out to be one of the greatest benefits arising from the Hong Kong reunification sixteen years ago this week. Since before any of his films were officially shown on the mainland, pirated VHS tapes had made Chan a star there; he has toured the country regularly, he promoted and sang at the 2008 Olympics (and subsequently in a solo concert at the Bird’s Nest stadium); and is a member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference—a Communist Party advisory organization that recruits high-profile civilians, including other celebrities such as Stephen Chow, Zhang Ziyi, and Yao Ming. His latest Hong Kong movie, CZ12, reprising his earlier, Indiana Jones-esque Armour of God films, is premised on the repatriation to China of ancient artifacts seized by foreign powers during the Opium War, and spotlights some superfluous nationalist posturing. Additionally, Chan has relocated his office from Hong Kong to Beijing, and announced the construction of a Jackie Chan Museum in Shanghai. At last week’s Shanghai International Film Festival, the powerhouse Beijing film studio Huayi Brothers  announced a partnership with Chan on his next two films. Cultural promotion is one thing, but more problematic for some of his fans are his occasional pronouncements criticizing the Taiwanese government, derogating Hong Kong for its internal disorder, or expressing the necessity for authoritarian rule. This may be one reason for CZ12’s disappointing showing in Hong Kong, where it grossed HKD$11.5 million HKD (US$1.5 million) at the box office, compared to the nearly 140 million RMB (US$22.7 million) it earned on the mainland, making it the second most popular Chinese film of 2012, behind the comedy Lost in Thailand.
更有意思、偶尔令人担忧的是内地利用他增进中国的软实力。共产党占用成龙，或许是香港回归16年产生的最大效益之一。因为在中国内地正式上映成龙的任何影片之前，盗版录像带就已让他广为人知；他经常到内地旅行，参与宣传2008年北京奥运会，并在这一盛会上演唱（之后还在鸟巢体育馆举办了个人演唱会）；他和周星驰、章子怡和姚明等名人一起成为中国政协委员，政协是共产党的一个顾问组织，经常吸收知名的民间人士。成龙最近拍摄的香港电影《十二生肖》(CZ12)延续其早期类似于《夺宝奇兵》的《飞鹰计划》(Armour of God)系列片，以归还在鸦片战争中被列强掳走的中国古老文物为故事主线，夹杂一些多余的民族主义姿态。此外，成龙还将自己的办公室从香港搬到北京，并宣布要在上海修建一座成龙博物馆。在上周上海国际电影节上，重量级的北京影视公司华谊兄弟宣布要与成龙的下两部影片进行合作。文化推广是一件事，但对成龙的某些粉丝来说，比较有问题的是他偶尔批评台湾政府、贬低香港内部混乱，或是表示威权统治是必要的。这也许是《十二生肖》在香港票房收入（1150万港元，合150万美元）令人失望的一部分原因，而它在内地的票房收入将近1.4亿元人民币（合2270万美元），成为2012年中国第二大最受欢迎影片，仅次于喜剧《泰囧》(Lost in Thailand)。
Still, it’s hard to imagine Chan’s ever becoming entirely a Communist Party tool: he will always be a symbol of Hong Kong spirit and D.I.Y ingenuity, and his life’s work celebrates the triumph of the little guy, the indomitability of the plucky individual. As a member of the Hong Kong Film Director’s Guild, Performing Artistes Guild, and Stuntman Association, Chan has done important work on their behalf, and has led organized show business protests against triad interference. A coherent political stance will never be his strong suit, and while I would pay eager attention to anything he had to say about comedy, timing, physical conditioning, martial arts choreography, or filmmaking, I tend to think that anyone looking for political wisdom or guidance from Chan (who has repeatedly voiced regret at his lack of education and historical knowledge and context) pretty much deserves what they get.
然而，人们还是很难想象成龙会完全变成共产党的工具，因为他将永远代表香港精神和自发的聪明才智，他毕生的作品都在欢呼小人物的成功，欢呼有勇气的个人不屈不挠的品格。作为香港电影导演会、香港演艺人协会以及香港动作特技演员公会的成员，成龙代表这些组织做了很多重要工作，还领导过有组织的演艺圈反对黑社会插手的抗议活动。政治立场上的连贯性从来不是成龙的长项，而且，虽然我对他在喜剧、时机、身体调理、武打动作编排或者电影制作方面的任何意见都会洗耳恭听，但我认为，任何指望从成龙那里得到政治智慧或指引的人，都会得到他们应得的东西（成龙多次对自己缺少教育、历史知识以及背景表示遗憾）。
China’s embrace of Chan as a cultural ambassador points to another domestic shortcoming: there was no homegrown pop superstar capable of fulfilling this function, no one possessing both extraordinary talent and the bountiful good will and expressivity to crystallize China’s image abroad.
中国利用成龙作为文化大使，暴露了又一个国内弱点：内地没有一个本土流行文化明星能够履行这种职能，没有一个既拥有出色才华，又具有源源不断的善意和表达能力，能够在海外展现中国形象的人。
At the Film Society of Lincoln Center and Asia Society, Chan straddled past and future, presiding over screenings, respectively, of CZ12, which opens in U.S. theaters later this summer, and of Drunken Master II, his 1994 masterpiece. In a pre-screening Q&A with Asia Society Film Curator La Frances Hui, he was in top form, as supremely entertaining as he is in front of large gatherings and small, regaling the audience with behind-the-scenes stories of his famous stunts—explaining, for instance, that he pumps up his own adrenaline beforehand by yelling “aaahhhhhhh!” at the top of his lungs, or that the secret to the scene in Drunken Master II in which he slides across a pit of burning coals was accomplished by packing his butt in ice cubes. Most revealingly, he spoke of his admiration for Hollywood technology, admitting to a prejudice in favor of Western storytelling modes. According to Chan, Chinese filmmakers are less capable of telling their own stories than we are. “Use Western eyes to introduce China [to the world],” he said, “Better than Chinese eyes introduce China… We make so many [versions of] Mulan. But Disney makes Mulan, then everyone knows it!” (And, for what it’s worth, The Forbidden Kingdom, Chan’s 2008 collaboration with Lion KingDirector Rob Minkoff and Screenwriter John Fusco, contains one of the more credible and compelling renditions of fantastic Chinese mythology thus far realized on screen).
在林肯中心电影协会(Film Society of Lincoln Center)和美国亚洲协会，成龙穿越过去和未来，分别主持了今年夏天晚些时候将在美国上映的《十二生肖》和他在1994年的大作《醉拳2》(Drunken Master II)的放映仪式。在放映前与亚洲协会电影专员许娜(La Frances Hui)问答时，他状态良好，就像他一贯在大大小小的活动中都很能逗乐一样，用他的知名特技的幕后故事逗观众开心，比如，他解释说自己会先大声喊叫“啊”来增加肾上腺激素分泌，或者在《醉拳2》中，他滑过一堆燃烧的碳时这一幕的秘密，这个镜头是他在屁股下垫上冰块完成的。最说明问题的是，他谈到自己对好莱坞技术的崇拜，承认自己偏爱西方式的讲故事套路。成龙认为，中国的电影制作人在讲述本土的故事时不如美国同行。他说，“用西方的视角介绍中国（给世界），比用中国人的视角介绍中国更好……我们拍了很多（版本）的木兰。但是迪士尼一出《木兰》，大家马上就知道这个故事了！”（顺便提一下，成龙在2008年与《狮子王》[Lion King]的导演罗伯·明科夫[Rob Minkoff]和编剧约翰·富斯科[John Fusco]合作完成的《功夫之王》[The Forbidden Kingdom]，可能是迄今对中国精彩神话故事比较可信、比较打动人心的银幕演绎之一。）
The pioneering, freewheeling hybrid of martial arts, action, and comedy epitomized by Drunken Master II was on ample display this week in a retrospective running through today at the Film Society of Lincoln Center’s Walter Reade Theater. Part of Subway Cinema’s 12th annual New York Asian Film Festival, the retrospective accompanies a Lifetime Achievement Award for Chan, and is designed to remind local audiences of the unique talents, and thoroughly crowd-pleasing Hong Kong films that brought Chan to global attention in the first place. “We want to position these not just as Black Belt Theater,” says Subway Cinema co-founder Grady Hendrix, “but as works of cinema worthy of being celebrated.”
本周，将武术、动作和喜剧元素创新地自由融合在一起的《醉拳2》，最近在林肯中心电影协会的瓦尔特·里德剧院(Walter Reade Theater)回顾放映。作为Subway Cinema第12届年度纽约亚洲电影节(New York Asian Film Festival)的一部分，这次回顾放映同时授予成龙“终身成就奖”，意在促使当地观众关注成龙的独特才华，关注涌现出成龙、使其获得国际关注的娱乐性极强的香港电影。Subway Cinema创始人之一格雷迪·亨德里克斯(Grady Hendrix)称，“我们不想只把这些电影定位为‘黑带剧院’(Black Belt Theater)，而是值得庆贺的电影杰作。”
Being able to see a 35mm widescreen print of The Young Master, Chan’s first film, made when he was twenty-six and visibly burning with desire to show off his speed, agility, precision, and (even then highly developed) comedy chops to the world is an opportunity that comes too rarely these days; ditto the titles from his amazing run extending from the mid-80s through 1994, encompassing the Police Story series, Project A parts I & II, and the original pair of Armour of God films. They are a special treat and nothing short of electrifying in a crowded auditorium. On top of everything else, Chan is a director with a voluptuous camera sense, and the mise-en-scène and cutting in Operation Condor, Miracles, and Drunken Master II are a joy in themselves.
现在，能看到成龙首部电影《师弟出马》(The Young Master)的35毫米宽屏版本的机会极为少见，拍这部影片时成龙只有26岁，明显能看到他急于向世界展示自己的速度、敏捷性、准确性以及（在当时已经很高超的）搞笑技能；难得一见的还有他在80年代中到1994年那段神奇时期的作品，其中包括《警察故事》系列、第一、二部《A计划》(Project A)、 以及《飞鹰计划》系列片的最初两部影片。观看这些电影是特别的享受，在座无虚席的放映厅里特别激动人心。除此之外，成龙还是个镜头感十足的导演，《飞鹰计划》、《奇迹》(Miracles)、《醉拳2》的场面调度和剪辑本身就让人愉悦。
And yet, even the highpoints of these films underscore the only real way in which Chan’s career from Rush Hour forward has failed to realize its potential. Regardless of who is in the director’s chair, all of Chan’s Hong Kong films are credited as “A Jackie Chan Film,” and his signature is unmistakable; they were made with his complete control. During our time in Hong Kong in 1996, just as he was poised to begin his Hollywood rise, Chan told me that in Hollywood his dream was to work with people at his level, A-list co-stars and directors. If Steven Spielberg or James Cameron or Francis Coppola had wanted to do something with him, he said he would be willing to do it for free; if a comic actor he admired like Danny DeVito would have considered co-starring with him, Chan would have leapt at the chance. Instead, the Rush Hour movies are entertaining, but require relatively little from Chan; the films Shanghai Noon and Shanghai Knights make him straight man to Owen Wilson; and the less said about The Tuxedo and The Spy Next Door the better. In Hollywood, it was not until Shanghai Knights in 2003 that Chan was even asked to choreograph the action scenes himself. Meanwhile, his Hong Kong productions, even as they explore a variety of genres, have lacked the drive and coherence that mark his earlier work. He has seemed tired, lacking in spark, going through the motions.
然而，这些电影达到的水平，恰恰突显了成龙从《尖峰时刻》开始的事业没有充分挖掘出潜力的唯一真正原因。无论是谁做导演，成龙拍摄的所有香港电影都被称作“成龙电影”(A Jackie Chan Film)，他的印记十分明显；这些影片都是在他完全控制下完成的。1996年我在香港期间，就在成龙开始走红好莱坞的前夕，他对我说，他在好莱坞的梦想是，和与他在一个水平上的人合作，要一流的联袂明星和导演。如果史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)、詹姆斯·卡梅隆(James Cameron)或者弗朗西斯·科波拉(Francis Coppola)想要和他合作，他说他愿意无偿表演；如果是像丹尼·德维托(Danny DeVito)那样的他热爱的喜剧演员想和他合作，他会抓住机会不放。相反，《尖峰时刻》系列虽然娱乐性很强，但对成龙的要求不高；《西域威龙》(Shanghai Noon)和《皇家威龙》(Shanghai Knights)让他成为欧文·威尔逊(Owen Wilson)的配角；而对于《燕尾服》(The Tuxedo)和《邻家特工》(The Spy Next Door)，我们还是少谈为妙。在好莱坞，直到2003年拍摄《皇家威龙》时，他才应邀设计武打场面。与此同时，他在香港的作品即便探索了各种题材，但始终缺乏早期作品那种冲劲和连贯性。他看上去疲倦了，缺乏新的火花，只是在随波逐流。
Late one night in 1995, while talking to me about his life, Chan said to me:
1995年一天深夜，成龙在和我谈论他的人生时说道：
“Nothing more important than movies. Marry always tomorrow, day after tomorrow. Girl, always some other girl, prettier than some other girl. The movie you cannot make mistakes. Because you finish today, when you say, “Yes!”—after editing, the movie, it keeps long time. It keeps 1995 for a long time. Whatever you see is 1995. You get the girl, 1995, after five years, there’s different. The twentieth century already, it get old. The movie, it never get old.”
“什么都比不上电影重要。结婚，总可以等到明天，后天。女孩，总会有更漂亮的。只有电影不能出错。因为今天拍完，当你在编完之后说‘好了！’时，这部电影就会长期存在。它将会把1995年长期保存下来。无论你看到什么都是1995年的。如果你在1995年有个女孩，过5年就不一样了。20世纪已经老了。但电影永远不会变老。”
And while I can’t say I want to advocate emulating this approach to one’s personal life, that degree of dedication is what seems to have gone missing. Now, of course, what does he have to prove? And he also deserves some slack: Rush Hour was made when he was forty-three, and this past spring he turned fifty-nine—during those years there was bound to be a slowdown. But with someone as brilliantly inventive as Chan, there remains the hope that he is still capable of new surprises and delights.
虽然我不会提倡在个人生活中采取这种态度，但那种专注似乎是成龙后期的电影所缺乏的。当然，话说回来，他还需要证明什么呢？而且他也应该放松一点了：《尖峰时刻》拍摄时他已43岁，今年春天他过了59岁生日，这么多年来，他总会有放慢脚步的片刻。但是像成龙这样富有创意的人，人们不禁希望他还能带来新的惊喜和快乐。
Luckily, that turns out to be the case: as his age catches up to him and his ability to be an action hero starts to wane, Chan has begun to turn his attention to his acting. In The Karate Kid remake, he has tremendous chemistry with his co-star Jaden Smith, and despite the schtick of ancient jokes and textbook tugging-at-the-heartstrings, he executes his role impeccably. Additionally, the Hong Kong production Shinjuku Incident, from 2009, is a compellingly gritty drama about Chinese lowlifes in Tokyo and a real departure for Chan because for the first time he plays a bad guy, a low-level gangster. And in Little Big Soldier, his second most recent film, in which Chan has to transport Wang Leehom back home to collect a reward, he marries character drama to extended martial arts set-pieces, all of which he choreographed himself, and each so elegantly virtuosic as to recall Fred Astaire, chock-full of tiny grace-notes and drive-by comic bits. For his fans, this side of Chan, like his greatest films, will never get old.
幸运的是，的确如此：随着年龄增长，成龙作为动作明星的能力开始下滑，但他将注意力转向表演。在翻拍《功夫梦》(The Karate Kid)时，他与联合主演的杰登·史密斯(Jaden Smith)配合融洽，尽管有很多老套的搞笑包袱和扣人心弦的情节，但他无懈可击地演活了自己的角色。除此之外，2009年拍摄的香港电影《新宿事件》(Shinjuku Incident)是一部对东京的中国人底层生活的真实写照，对成龙来说也是真正的突破，因为他在这部影片中第一次扮演坏人，一个低层次的黑社会成员。在他拍摄的上一部影片《大兵小将》(Little Big Soldier)中，成龙要将王力宏运回去领赏，他将人物剧与长时间的武打场面（全部由他自己编排）融为一体，每一幕的表演都是如此优雅精湛，足以让人联想到弗雷德·阿斯泰尔(Fred Astaire)，充满优雅温情的细节和即兴的喜剧元素。对于影迷来说，成龙的这一面就像他最成功的电影那样，永远不会老去。