BRUSSELS — IF London is Europe’s New York, Brussels is our Washington, D.C., a small city made globally important by the political institutions centered here, and at the same time, and perhaps for that reason, often unloved by the people who pass through it. In the eyes of jaded Western travelers it is boring, so clogged with international bureaucracy that it has no soul.
布鲁塞尔——如果说伦敦是欧洲的纽约，那布鲁塞尔就是我们的华盛顿特区。这是一个因为政治机构云集而举世瞩目的小城，而可能正因如此，行经此地的人们往往并不喜欢它。在疲倦的西方游客眼里，它有点乏味，到处是没有灵魂的国际官僚机构。
They’re wrong. True, Brussels is not dominated by a single, longstanding and widely appealing national culture, like Rome, Paris or Berlin. But that absence has been filled with a vibrant international cosmopolitanism that allows all cultures to feel at home in its diverse array of ethnic restaurants, neighborhoods and assorted entertainments. A fulcrum of power and underrated as a town, Brussels is livelier and prettier than most people think. Only Eurocrats, lobbyists and spies get it. Most other Europeans miss the point.
他们错了。布鲁塞尔的确不像罗马、巴黎或柏林那样，由一种单一的、悠久的、人见人爱的民族文化主导。但是反过来，它有充满活力的世界主义特色，在各色各样的民族特色餐厅、街区和娱乐场所里，所有文化都如鱼得水。作为权力支点的布鲁塞尔是一座被低估的城市，它其实比大多数人想象的更有活力，也更加美丽。只有欧洲官僚、说客和间谍明白。其他大部分欧洲人都看不到这一点。
We miss something else, something that is even more important. Brussels represents a Continent that has come a long way. After centuries of disastrous infighting, over the last 70 years Europeans have seen no more major wars, steadily rising prosperity and a way of life that most of the world would give its eyeteeth for.
还有一些是我们不知道的，也是更重要的。布鲁塞尔代表着一块历史悠久的大陆。结束了几个世纪的损失惨重的战乱，欧洲在过去70年享受着安稳时光，迎来日渐繁荣的社会，过上世界大部分地区的人梦寐以求的生活。
You can travel across borders and live more or less where you like. Whether your home is in Lisbon, Warsaw or Palermo, you can take your kids to a hospital when they’re ill and they’ll get looked after. It’s free, most of the time. If you’re stopped by the police, they won’t harass you, beat you up or demand cash. If you don’t like your leaders, you can kick them out (or try, anyway).
你可以随意穿越边境，在自己想待的地方过上一段或长或短的日子。不管你是住在里斯本、华沙、还是巴勒莫，你都可以在孩子们生病的时候把他们送往医院，他们会在那里得到照顾。而且这些大部分时候还是免费的。如果你在路上被警察拦下来，他们不会骚扰你，不会毒打你，也不会管你要钱。如果不喜欢自己的领导人，你可以把他们扫地出门（或者至少尝试这么做）。
Obvious? Of course it is. So obvious that we forget it. Europe’s narrative is controlled by its foes — and there are many, as we know. Every country in the European Union has a political party that built its fortunes on bashing Europe. Even the pro-European parties, many of them in government, can’t resist blaming Brussels for their own failures. The union has become everybody’s punching bag. It’s right there in front of you, and it can’t hit back.
不稀奇？当然。就因为太过显而易见，我们都忘记了它的存在。对欧洲的描述掌握在敌人手里——我们知道，敌人有很多。欧盟每个成员国都一个政党是依靠抨击欧洲而存在的。即使是亲欧洲的政党——有很多是执政党——也不免因自身的失败而指责布鲁塞尔。欧盟成了所有人的出气筒。就那么摆在你的眼前，而且它还不能还手。
“But of course Europe is collapsing!” I hear you say. “Greece is on the brink of default! The Islamic State is recruiting young Europeans. The Middle East is on fire and the flames are getting closer! Ukraine is hurting and you can’t do anything about it! How can you be high on Europe at a time like this?” Well, this is precisely the right time to be high on it, and to be thankful for what we have before it’s too late.
“但是欧洲显然就要完蛋了！”你会这么说。“希腊分分钟就会债务违约！伊斯兰国在招募欧洲年轻人。中东已经起火，马上要烧到这里了！乌克兰正在遭殃，我们却束手无策！这种时候你怎么还能给欧洲大唱赞歌？”要知道，现在恰恰是最合适的时机，为欧洲欢呼，感恩于我们现在所拥有的，趁一切还来得及。
The European project is not perfect: Look at the recent, embarrassing squabble about refugee quotas, or how long it took to give the elected European Parliament a proper role. But these are relatively minor imperfections in a superstate of 500 million people in 28 countries, 19 of them with the same currency, living, marrying, studying and working together.
欧盟并不完美。看看最近难民限制人数引发的令人尴尬的争吵，以及花了多少时间给当选的欧洲议会(European Parliament)一个合适的角色。但这些都是相对较小的瑕疵，因为这是一个由28个国家组成的超级国家，其中19个国家使用统一的货币。这28个成员国的5亿民众在一起，生活、结合、学习和工作。
Ask Ukrainians whether they prefer living by the rule of law or by the mood of Vladimir V. Putin. Ask migrants and refugees why they risk their lives crossing the Mediterranean to get to Italy, or try to enter Greece, Hungary or Britain clinging to the underside of a truck. The peace, security and welfare that we take for granted is for most migrants a dream.
问问乌克兰人更愿意按照法则，还是弗拉基米尔·V·普京的心情生活。问问移民和难民为何冒着生命危险穿越地中海前往意大利，或是紧紧抓住卡车的底部，试图进入希腊、匈牙利或英国。和平、安全和福利被我们认为是理所当然的，但对大部分移民而言，这些是他们的梦想。
They say the grass is always greener on the other side of the hill. It seems that from our side of that metaphorical elevation, we miss the bigger picture. We don’t have the equivalent of the Fourth of July or Thanksgiving. Europeans don’t thank anyone; we moan. We don’t celebrate; we just feel sorry for ourselves. For us, lack of pride could come before a fall.
他们说人总是这山望着那山高。似乎从我们所在的这座山上看，我们错过了更宏远的图景。我们没有相当于独立日或感恩节这样的节日。欧洲人不知感恩。我们只会抱怨。我们不赞颂，只会自怨自艾。对我们来说，自豪感的缺乏可能比衰落来得早。
The European Union is a work in progress, but it is a stunning piece of work. And I refuse to believe that the majority of Europeans disagree. I suspect that when they are asked to vote in a referendum Sunday, the Greeks will decide to stick with the euro and get rid of the garrulous leaders who got them into this mess.
欧盟是一项正在进行的工作，但它是一项令人震惊的工作。我不愿相信大部分欧洲人是存在分歧的。我猜，周日被要求在公投中投票时，希腊民众会选择留在欧元区，并将那些喋喋不休的领导人赶下台。正是这些领导人让他们陷入了今天的混乱局面。
And I believe that the citizens of Britain will do the same when the time comes to vote in their referendum. Not only because a “Brexit” — Britain leaving the European Union — would sink the country’s exports, financial services and political clout. Britons will stay because the European Union is where they belong.
而且我相信，英国民众到公投时也会做出同样的选择。这不仅是因为“英国退出欧盟”会导致该国的出口、金融服务和政治影响力降低。英国民众会留下来是因为他们属于欧盟。