The scale and I have reached détente. That is: I leave it alone, and it affords me the same courtesy. I rarely step on it, and we’re both better off.
体重秤和我之间达成了谅解。也就是说：我不再管它了，而它对我也待之以同样的态度。我几乎再也不站在它上面，这样一来，我们彼此都更加轻松。
I have earned the right of refusal. As someone who weighed herself almost daily between the ages of 10 and 25, who spent six years at fat camps and traveled around the Middle East with a scale buried in the pit of her backpack (I know, I know…), I’ve done my time. I won’t even weigh myself at the doctor’s office. Nothing good can come from the knowledge that I’m three pounds lighter, or two pounds heavier.
我已经争取到了拒绝的权力。作为一个从10岁到25岁间几乎天天都量体重的人，作为一个在减肥训练营里呆的时间加起来长达六年，甚至在去中东旅行时背包深处还藏着一个体重秤的人（我知道，我知道您会怎么说……），我对它已经仁至义尽。甚至现在在去医生诊室时我也不会称体重。知道我又轻了三磅或是重了两磅，这对我没有任何好处。
“People are obsessed with it — they go crazy over a tenth of a pound,” said Jim White, a registered dietitian nutritionist and a spokesman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. “I’ve had clients who are losing major inches and body fat and looking and feeling great, but if the scale doesn’t budge they get defeated. The number defines them.”
“大家对它太执着了——为了几两体重就会发狂，”美国营养学会(Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics)发言人、注册营养师吉姆·怀特说：“我有些客户，他们的围度和体脂明显减少，看着棒极了，自我感觉也不错，可如果体重秤上的刻度没有往左边移，他们就会心灰意冷。体重秤上的数字成为他们的定义。”
I had pretty much been blessedly scale-free until a few months ago, when I signed up for a month-long, twice-weekly fitness class. Shedding pounds was not my goal; I just wanted a good, hard workout. The instructor insisted on taking our “before” and “after” measurements, including our weight and body fat percentages.
好在我已经多多少少抛弃了体重秤，直到几个月前，当时我报名参加了一个为期一月、每周两次的健身课程。减几斤体重并非我的本意；我只想要好好努力锻炼一下，但教练坚持要记录我们每个人“之前”和“之后”的数据，包括体重和体脂比。
I balked, but after the teacher promised “I won’t tell you what it is,” I held my breath and shuffled onto the scale as if to the guillotine. I was curious, of course, but I squeezed my eyes shut and didn’t peek.
我畏缩了，但在教练跟我保证说“我不会跟你说你现在的体重是多少”后，我还是屏住呼吸，就好像奔赴刑场那样慢吞吞地走到了体重秤上。我确实是很好奇，可还是紧紧闭住了眼睛，没有偷看一眼。
And that was the end of that — until a week later, when I opened a group email from her and found a list of the entire class’s names, along with our weights and measurements.
于是，这件事就算完结了——直到一个星期后，我收到了一封教练群发的邮件，发现了一张表格，上面写明了全班所有人的姓名，旁边还标注了我们各自的体重和围度。
A ball of rubber bands wove its way from my stomach and lodged in my throat. “Really?” I thought.
一团橡皮筋从我的胃里弹了出来，堵在了喉咙里。“有没有搞错啊？”我想。
It seemed a major violation. So many of us can recite the intimate details of our friends’ sex lives, their pharmacological habits, their rents. But question their weights and their mouths clamp shut. Not even the N.S.A. knows that.
这看起来真是太冒犯人了。我们中的很多人都对密友的性生活、用药习惯和每月房租钱了如指掌，可是要问朋友的体重是多少，对方一定会紧咬牙关。就连国家安全局(NSA)都撬不开。
“How often do we ask someone what they weigh? Unless you really know them well, you don’t,” said Allan Geliebter, a senior researcher at The New York Obesity Nutrition Research Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center. “The last thing you tell someone is that they gained a lot of weight.”
“我们会频繁问别人的体重是多少吗？除非你跟对方真的非常熟，否则根本不会开这个口，”圣卢克-罗斯福医院中心(St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center)纽约肥胖营养研究中心的资深研究员亚伦·格里伯特(Allan Geliebter)说：“你不可能开口就告诉人家，他近来发福了。”
After stewing about it, I realized that I didn’t really care if 15 strangers knew my weight. I just didn’t want to know — especially since it was about five pounds higher than I would have liked. It haunted me.
暗自思量后，我发觉我并不是真的介意是否有15个陌生人知道了我的体重。我就是不想自己知道——尤其是在知道比我猜想的重了5磅后。这让我特别不安。
The teacher apologized. But, she said, the weight was “just a number.” “The real thing you should worry about is body fat.”
那位教练跟我道了歉。但她说，体重“无非是个数字”。“你真正应当担心的是体脂。”
Indeed, most experts agree that body fat percentage is a better indicator of health than overall weight, with obesity often defined as greater than 25 percent body fat in men and 35 percent in women. Belly, or visceral, fat can be more harmful than the subcutaneous fat found directly under the skin and stored in the thighs and derriere — neither of which a traditional scale gauges.
确实如此，大部分专家都认同这种说法：相比体重，体脂比是健康状况更好的指示器，男性体脂比超过25%，女性超过35%，通常就可以定义为肥胖了。腹部或者说是内脏脂肪，比起在皮肤表面下、囤积在大腿和臀后可以摸到的皮下脂肪更加有害——可是无论内脏脂肪还是皮下脂肪，通过传统的体重秤都无法测量。
“Weight in itself is an imperfect measurement of health,” said Dr. Philip Schauer, director of the Cleveland Clinic Bariatric and Metabolic Institute. “Someone who is 30 pounds overweight and has mainly a pear shape can be pretty healthy. You can be an apple shape and 30 pounds overweight and have diabetes.”
“体重本身在量度健康状况方面，是不完美的，”克利夫兰诊所(Cleveland Clinic)临床肥胖和代谢中心主任菲利普·绍尔(Philip Schauer)博士说：“如果有人超重了30磅，但如果他是梨型身材，很可能健康状况很好。可是如果你是苹果身材，超重了30磅就可能会有糖尿病。”
A quicker and more accurate assessment, he said, is measuring waist circumference — more than 35 inches for women or more than 40 inches for men is problematic — or using calipers to determine the amount of fat under the skin. Those measurements tend to be more reliable than body mass index, or B.M.I., which doesn’t distinguish between fatty and lean tissue or take body shape into consideration.
他说，相比体重，更直观准确的评估方式是测量腰围——女性腰围超过35英寸（合89厘米），男性超过40英寸（合102厘米）就有问题了——或者用卡尺测量皮下脂肪厚度。这些标准往往比身体质量指数(BMI)更可靠，因为后者无法区分脂肪与肌肉组织，也无法将体型纳入计量方式中。
So if the scale is such a flawed measure, why is it still so widely used?
那么，如果体重是那么靠不住的标准，为什么还有这么多人要使用它呢？
“It can be an effective tool,” said Jennifer Linde, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, in Minneapolis. “It gives you feedback every day, and you can coach people to look at the number as a neutral thing. It doesn’t have to be a value judgment.”
“它可以成为一个有效的工具，”明尼苏达大学双子城分校（University of Minnesota Twin Cities，位于明尼阿波利斯）的流行病学副教授詹妮弗·林德(Jennifer Linde)说：“它每天都会为你提供反馈，而且你可以教育人们中立地看待体重秤上的数字。它不一定非得成为某种价值判断。”
Presuming it’s possible to look at it as a “neutral” thing, some studies have shown that the more frequently you weigh yourself the better off you are, at least in terms of weight control. A six-month study of overweight and obese adults who were looking to lose weight, published last September in Obesity, confirmed that sentiment. During the study, which included a mobile scale for daily weighing, a web-based weight loss graph and weekly feedback from researchers, participants who weighed themselves daily lost 13 pounds on average. Those in the other group, who weighed themselves weekly, lost nothing.
一些研究推想人们可以将体重看成“中立”的事物，并证明你越频繁地称自己的体重，状态就会越好，至少在控制体重这方面如此。去年9月发表在《肥胖学》(Obesity)的一项为期6个月的研究就证明了这种推论。这项研究涉及的是超重和肥胖、并希望减重的成年人，在研究中，其中一组受试者每天用便携秤称体重，通过网络了解自己的减重曲线图，并能每周从研究人员处得到反馈，结果这组每天称体重的人平均减去了13磅体重。而另一组受试者每周称一次体重，他们一点没减下来。
David A. Levitsky, a professor of nutrition and psychology at Cornell University who has conducted studies on the efficacy of daily weighing since 1992, believes that daily self-weighing is necessary to help prevent weight gain.
康奈尔大学(Cornell University)营养学和心理学教授大卫·七维茨基(David A. Levitsky)自1992年开始从事每天称重产生功效的研究，他相信每天称重对于防止体重反弹是必要的。
“I don’t see any way that we are going to tax fats or tax soda or have people exercise more in order to control their weight,” he said. “There’s enough data to show that doesn’t work. But if you step on that scale first thing in the morning, that’s protective of those subtle cues in our environment that make us eat a little more than we expend.”
“无论是对征油脂税，征可乐税，鼓励人们多多运动以控制体重，我觉得都没用，”他说，“已经有足够的数据显示这些办法不起作用了。但如果你每天早上的第一件事就是站到秤上，这可以帮助你抵御让你吃的比消耗的更多的环境诱因。”
The best news, at least for us scale avoiders, is that most medical professionals agree that self-monitoring — whether it is counting calories, writing down how much one eats or weighing oneself regularly — is the greatest predictor of success. Our task is to choose the thing that makes us the least crazy, and stick with it.
对于我们这些对磅秤避之不及的人，有个好消息是：大部分医学专业人士都认为，自行测量——不管计算的是进食的卡路里，记录每日食谱，或者定期称重——可以预示着你的成功。我们的任务就是选择一种最不会让你抵触的测量方式，然后坚持到底。
And that is why, in the end, I skipped getting weighed at my last exercise class. There was no reason to. I felt stronger, my clothes fit better, and that was enough for me.
正因为这样，在我的最后一堂健身课上，我最终没有量体重。没有理由这么去做。我感觉自己更强壮了，我的衣服更加合身了，这对我已经足够。