One in two adults takes a daily vitamin pill, and Americans spend tens of billions of dollars each year on supplements. Now, a small coterie of physicians writing in a leading medical journal has offered this blunt advice: “Stop wasting money.”
目前，大约每两名成年人中就有一人每天服用维生素片，美国人每年在此类补充剂上的花销可达数百亿美元。对此，几位医生在顶尖的医学杂志上直言不讳地规劝道：“别再浪费钱啦。”
In an unusually direct opinion piece, the five authors say that for healthy Americans worried about chronic disease, there’s no clear benefit to taking vitamin and mineral pills. And in some instances, they may even cause harm.
在这篇异常直率的评论中，五位作者表示，健康的美国人因为担心自己会罹患慢性疾病而服用维生素和矿物质片，但此类补充剂并没有显示出任何明确的效益。在某些情况下，它们甚至还可能有害。
The authors make an exception for supplemental vitamin D, which they say needs further research. Even so, widespread use of vitamin D pills “is not based on solid evidence that benefits outweigh harms,” the authors wrote. For other vitamins and supplements, “the case is closed.”
在这些作者看来，关于维生素D的补充还需要进一步的研究，因此它可以作为唯一的例外。但即便如此，人们普遍服用维生素D片也“并非是因为有确凿的证据表明其效益大于危害”，作者写道。对于其他维生素和补充剂，“结论已经板上钉钉。”
“The message is simple,” the editorial continued. “Most supplements do not prevent chronic disease or death, their use is not justified, and they should be avoided.”
“我们想要传达的信息非常简单，”该评论文章继续写道。“大多数补充剂并不能预防慢性疾病或死亡。它们的使用缺乏充足的理由，应当予以避免。”
“We have so much information from so many studies,” Dr. Cynthia Mulrow, senior deputy editor of Annals of Internal Medicine and an author of the editorial, said in an interview. “We don’t need a lot more evidence to put this to bed.”
“我们已经从浩如烟海的研究中获得了如此丰富的资料，”《内科医学年鉴》(Annals of Internal Medicine)的高级副主编、该评论文章的作者之一辛西娅·马罗(Cynthia Mulrow)博士在接受采访时说：“现有的证据足以支持我们的观点。”
Officials with the Natural Products Association, a trade organization that represents supplement suppliers and retailers, said they were shocked by what they termed “an attack” on their industry, pointing to a study published last year that found a modest reduction in overall cancers in a long, randomized, controlled trial of 15,000 male doctors.
代表补充剂供应商和零售商的贸易组织“美国天然产品协会”(Natural Products Association)的官员则表示，他们的行业遭受这样的“攻击”，这令他们非常震惊，并指出，在去年发表的一项研究中，一项在1.5万名男性医生中进行的长期随机对照试验表明，总体而言，癌症出现了中等程度的减少。
“Our members market and sell their products in order to assist people to achieve a healthier lifestyle,” said John Shaw, executive director of the association, adding that he could not understand why the industry was being criticized “for trying to promote health and wellness.”
“我们的会员推广和销售自己的产品是为了帮助人们实现更健康的生活方式，”该协会的执行理事约翰·肖(John Shaw)称，并补充道，他不明白为什么这样一个行业会“因为试图促进人们的健康和福祉”而遭致批评。
Demand for vitamin and mineral supplements has grown markedly in recent years, with domestic sales totaling some $30 billion in 2011. More than half of Americans used at least one dietary supplement from 2003-06, up from 42 percent from 1988-94, according to national health surveys conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The most popular products are multivitamin and mineral supplements, which are consumed by some 40 percent of men and women in the United States, according to data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.
近年来，人们对维生素和矿物质补充剂的需求明显增长，2011年，其在美国国内的销售总额已达约300亿美元。美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)进行的一项全国健康调查显示，在2003-2006年间，有超过一半的美国人至少服用一种膳食补充剂，该比例较之1988-1994年的42%有所上升。此外，根据美国健康与营养调查(National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey)的数据，最受欢迎的产品为复合维生素和矿物质补充剂，美国约有40%的男性和女性服用这类产品。
Whether regular long-term use can prevent heart disease and cancer has never been clearly established, and the authors of the editorial are not the first to point that out.
关于长期有规律地服用膳食补充剂能否预防心脏病和癌症，目前还没有明确的结论。但上述评论文章的作者们并非指出这一点的第一人。
The Cochrane Collaboration, which publishes reviews of medical evidence, has also concluded that taking vitamins does not extend life. An updated review of the evidence by the United States Preventive Services Task Force, published online on Nov. 12, likewise concluded that there was limited evidence that vitamin and mineral supplementation could prevent cancer or cardiovascular disease.
以发表循证医学综述著称的Cochrane协作网也得出结论：服用维生素无法延长寿命。11月12日，美国预防服务工作组(United States Preventive Services Task Force)就有关证据在线发表了最新综述，并得出了类似的结论：可表明维生素和矿物质补充剂预防癌症或心血管疾病效果的证据非常有限。
The task force pointed out, however, that two clinical trials had found slight cancer reductions among men who took multivitamins. Yet other studies have found that beta-carotene supplements may actually increase the risk of lung cancer in smokers, the task force review noted, and that high doses of vitamins A and E cause harm and may increase the risk of death.
不过，该工作组也指出，有两项临床试验发现，在服用复合维生素的男性中，癌症略有减少。但该工作组在综述中同时指出，其他的研究发现，β-胡萝卜素补充剂实际上可能增加吸烟者患肺癌的风险，且高剂量的维生素A和维生素E有害身体健康，并有可能增加死亡风险。
The editorial in the Annals is accompanied by two new studies reporting dismal results for multivitamins in helping preserve cognitive function and preventing heart attacks. In one study of nearly 6,000 male physicians 65 and older, participants who took a multivitamin for over a decade were no more likely to retain cognitive function as they aged than similar doctors who took a dummy pill.
与上述评论文章同时刊登在《内科医学年鉴》上的两项新研究报告，在帮助维护认知功能和预防心脏病发作方面，复合维生素收效甚微。在一项关于近6000名年满65岁的男性医生的研究中，有一部分参与者服用复合维生素达十年以上，但他们的认知功能一样随着衰老而出现衰退，且速度并不慢于服用安慰剂的同类医生人群。
But Dr. Francine Grodstein, one of the lead authors of that study, said that since physicians tend to have healthy diets and be well-nourished, the added nutrients may not have made a difference in their cases. “I do think there’s room for more research,” said Dr. Grodstein, who did not write or sign the editorial.
但是，该研究的主要作者之一，弗朗辛·葛斯坦(Francine Grodstein)博士认为，医生们往往具有健康的饮食习惯，他们的营养摄取充足而均衡，因此在这些人群中，额外增加的营养成分可能无法发挥作用。“我认为关于这一问题，还有进一步研究的空间，”葛斯坦博士说，她并没有参与该评论文章的撰写及署名。
Demonstrating the prevention of chronic diseases can take decades and conducting long-term, randomized, controlled trials is both tricky and very costly. “We don’t and probably never will have randomized trial data over decades,” she said.
要证明某种产品预防慢性疾病的效果需要花费数十年的时间，还需要进行长期、随机、对照试验，这两者都极为麻烦，且耗资巨大。“我们现在没有，以后可能也不会获得十年以上的随机试验数据，”她说。
The results of another clinical trial published in the journal found that high-dose vitamins and minerals did not protect heart attack patients 50 and older from experiencing additional cardiovascular events, though the research was marred by a high dropout rate.
发表于该杂志上的另一项临床试验的结果显示，在年满50岁、发生过心肌梗塞的患者中，高剂量的维生素和矿物质并不能预防其他心血管事件的发生，但这项研究的患者流失率较高，这使它的说服力大打折扣。
There have been few randomized clinical studies of the effects of multivitamins and minerals on heart disease, cancer and risk of death, said Dr. Stephen P. Fortmann, of the Kaiser Center of Health Research, who led the task force review. A draft of new task force recommendations, based on the updated review, said there was insufficient evidence to recommend taking or not taking vitamins.
前述工作组综述的领导者，凯泽健康研究中心(Kaiser Center of Health Research)的史蒂芬·P·福特曼(Stephen P. Fortmann)博士说，仅有为数寥寥的随机临床研究探讨了复合维生素和矿物质对心脏病、癌症和死亡风险的效应。基于这项最新的综述，工作组在建议草案中提出，现有证据不足以就服用或不服用维生素提出建议。
But Dr. Fortmann, who also did not write or sign the editorial, suggested that those who buy vitamins may be “throwing their money away,” adding: “Don’t think it makes up for a bad diet, that you can eat a lot of fast food and then take a bunch of supplements. That’s not a good idea.”
福特曼博士也未参与上述评论文章的撰写或署名，但他认为那些购买维生素的人“钱打了水漂”。他补充道：“膳食补充剂无法弥补不良饮食习惯造成的恶劣影响——别以为吞了一堆补充剂就可以高枕无忧地大吃快餐之类的垃圾食品。这可不是什么好主意。”