The current issue of The Atlantic carries a fascinating summary of “The Confidence Code” by Katty Kay and Claire Shipman. The essay runs through the evidence suggesting that women tend to have too little self-confidence. When asked how well they did on tests, women tend to estimate that they got fewer answers correct than they actually did. In one British study, a business school professor asked students how much they would deserve to earn five years after graduation. The women’s estimates were 20 percent lower than the men’s.
最近一期《大西洋》月刊(The Atlantic)刊登了凯蒂·凯(Katty Kay)和克莱尔·施普曼(Claire Shipman)所著的《信心代码》(The Confidence Code)一书的梗概，文章引人入胜地列举了很多证据，说明女性往往太缺乏自信。在被问及考试成绩时，女性估计的成绩，通常比实际答对的要少。在英国的一项研究中，一名商学院教授询问学生他们在毕业五年后值得拿到多少薪水，女生的预期比男生低20%。
It’s interesting to read the evidence as a guy, especially if you’re a self-aggrandizing pundit who covers politics and public life. I almost never see problems caused by underconfidence, but I see (and create) problems related to overconfidence every day.
作为男性读到这些证据会觉得很有趣，尤其是作为一个报道政治和公共生活的自命不凡的行家。我几乎从来都看不到任何由自信心不足造成的问题，但是我每天都会看到过度自信造成的问题，自己也会制造这种问题。
Much of the recent psychological research also suggests that overconfidence is our main cognitive problem, not the reverse. Daniel Kahneman’s book “Thinking, Fast and Slow” describes an exhaustive collection of experiments demonstrating how often people come to conclusions confidently and wrongly. When asked to estimate if more murders happen in Detroit or in Michigan, most people give higher estimates for Detroit even though every murder in Detroit also happens in Michigan.
很多最近的心理学研究也显示，我们主要的认知问题是过度自信而非缺乏自信。在丹尼尔·卡尼曼(Daniel Kahneman)的《思考，快与慢》(Thinking, Fast and Slow)一书中，阐述了数不胜数的实验，显示出人们会多么频繁地做出自信但错误的结论。研究人员要求受访者估计，底特律市和密歇根州，哪个地方发生的谋杀案较多时，多数人都估计底特律市谋杀案较多——尽管底特律市发生的谋杀案，其实也都发生在密歇根州。
Dan Ariely’s work shows how consistently we overpraise our virtues and rationalize our faults so we can think too highly of ourselves. Most of us call ourselves honest. But, in fact, most people regularly cheat in small ways, when the situation is right.
丹·艾瑞里(Dan Ariely)的研究表明了，我们多么惯于过度表扬自己的优点、为自己的缺点开脱，于是我们就可以过高地评价自己。多数人都自以为诚实，但实际上，如果时机合适，多数人常会在小问题上作弊。
So my first reaction when reading of female underconfidence is not simply that this is a problem. It’s to ask, how can we inject more of this self-doubt and self-policing into the wider culture. How can each of us get a better mixture of “female” self-doubt and “male” self-assertion?
因此，我读到女性缺乏自信时，第一反应并非“它是一个问题”，而是开始询问，我们应该如何向更广泛的文化注入自省和自我怀疑。怎样让我们每个人在“女性的”自我怀疑和“男性的”自负之间，取得更好的平衡？
But my second reaction is to notice that people are phenomenally terrible at estimating their own self-worth. Some Americans seem to value themselves ridiculously too little while others value themselves ridiculously too highly.
然而我的第二反应是，注意到了人们多么不善于估量自身的价值。在美国，一些人对自身的评价低得可笑，而另一些人的自我评价却高得荒唐。
The self-help books try to boost the “confidence” part of self-confidence, but the real problem is the “self” part. The self, as writers have noticed for centuries, is an unstable, fickle, vain and variable thing. Hundreds of years ago, David Hume noticed that when he tried to enter into what he called his most intimate self, he always stumbled on some particular perception or another. He never could catch himself without a perception of something else, and he never could see himself, only the perception.
励志书通常试图针对我们的“自信”(self-confidence)增强“信心”(confidence)的那一部分，可真正的问题在于“自我”(self)的那一部分。许多个世纪以来，很多作家都写道，“自我”是一种自负、不稳定、变幻莫测的东西。几百年前，大卫·休谟(David Hume)注意到，每当他试图走入他所说的“最隐秘的自我”，他总是会倒在一种或另一种具体的观感前面，他从来都做不到在抓住自我的同时、又不产生其他的观感，而且他从来都看不到自我，只能看到观感。
When you try to come up with a feeling for self-confidence, you are trying to peer into a myriad of ever-changing mental systems, most of them below the level of awareness. Instead of coming up with a real thing, which can reliably be called self-confidence, you’re just conjuring an abstraction. In the very act of trying to think about self-confidence, your vanity is creating this ego that is unstable and ethereal, and is thus painfully fragile, defensive, boasting and sensitive to sleights.
当你试图产生自信的感觉时，你其实是在窥视许许多多变幻莫测的精神系统，其中多数都处在无法觉察的层次。你并没有得到真家伙，那才可以被可靠地称作自信，你其实只是在臆想出一种抽象的东西。尝试思考“自信”的这个举动本身，就会让虚荣心构建出这样一种不稳定的、飘渺的自我，而这种自我也因此显得脆弱得让人痛心、防御性极强、喜欢夸大，对轻慢又十分敏感。
If you want to talk about something real, it’s probably a mistake to use a suspect concept like self-confidence, which is self-oriented. It’s probably a better idea to think about competence, which is task-oriented. If you ask, “Am I competent?” at least you are measuring yourself according to the standards of a specific domain.
如果你想谈论实实在在的东西，那么用“自信”这个可疑的概念或许就是个错误，毕竟它指向自我。考虑“技能”或许是个更好的想法，它指向的是任务。如果你问自己，“我能胜任吗？”你至少是在根据一个具体领域的标准衡量自己。
The person with the self-confidence mind-set starts thinking about his own intrinsic state. The person who sees herself as the instrument for performing a task thinks about some external thing that needs doing. The person with the confidence mind-set is like the painfully self-conscious person at a dinner party who asks, “How am I coming across?” The person with an instrumentalist mind-set is serving a craft and asks “What does this specific job require?” The person with a confidence mind-set is told “Believe in yourself.” This arouses all sorts of historical prejudices and social stereotypes. The person with an instrumentalist mind-set is told “Look accurately at what you have done.”
持自信心态的人，会开始思考自身的内在状态。而把自己看成从事某项任务的工具的人，则会考虑某些需要完成的外部事物。持自信心态的人，仿佛是宴会上一个局促不安的人，他会在内心里痛苦地追问，“大家对我印象怎么样？”而持工具心态的人，则是在从事一项技艺，他会问自己，“这个具体的工作需要什么？”持自信心态的人，被人教导要“相信自己”，可这会激发起各种历史的偏见和社会的成见。而持工具心态的人，则被人教导，要“准确地看待你做过的事”。
One of the hard things in life is learning to ask questions that you can actually answer. For example, if you are thinking about taking a job, it’s probably foolish to ask, “What future opportunities will this lead to?” You can’t know. It’s probably better to ask, “Will going to this workplace be rewarding day to day?” which is more concrete. If you are getting married, it’s probably foolish to ask an unknowable question like, “Will this person make me happy for 50 years?” It’s probably smarter to ask, “Is this person admirable enough that I want to live my life as an offering to them?” You can at least glimpse another’s habits here and now.
人生中有一件艰难的事情是，学会问那些你实际上能回答的问题。例如，如果你在考虑从事某个工作，问“这个工作未来能带来什么机遇”可能就很傻，毕竟你并不知道答案。更好的问题或许是：“到这个地方工作能不能每天都得到回报？”这才是一个更实际的问题。如果你要结婚，问一个答案无法确知的问题可能会比较蠢，比如“这个人能让我幸福50年吗？”更聪明的问法可能是，“这个人让我倾慕的程度，足以让我把自己交给他，与他度过一生吗？”你至少当下就能大略地看到某个人的习性。