Seventy-five years ago on Dec. 7, shortly before 8 a.m., hundreds of Japanese aircraft dove from the sky in a surprise bombing attack on a United States naval base in Hawaii, killing more than 2,400 Americans.
75年前的12月7日，临近早上8点，数以百计的日本飞机从天而降，对夏威夷的美国海军基地发起突袭，导致逾2400名美国人丧生。
The attack on Pearl Harbor shocked and outraged the nation and led it into war at a time when Congress and the American people had been split on the response to an already embattled world.
日本偷袭珍珠港令美国深感震惊和愤怒，本来国会和公众对参与这场世界大战意见不统一，珍珠港事件的发生直接导致了美国参战。
News articles from Dec. 8 reflected a sudden shift in the national mood. According to New York Times articles from Dec. 9 and 10, 1941, thousands of men rushed to sign up to serve in the United States armed forces, pushing enlistment to new highs.
12月8日的新闻报道反映了这种情绪上的突然转变。《纽约时报》1941年12月9日和10日的文章写道，数以千计的男性纷纷报名参军，将征兵人数推至新高。
Congressional leaders debated whether to declare war, not only on Japan but also on the Axis powers including Germany and Italy.
国会领导人对于是否不仅对日本宣战，而且也对轴心国德国和意大利宣战进行了辩论。
Sam Rayburn, who became the longest-serving speaker in the history of the House, was asked that day whether Congress would support war. “I think that is one thing on which there would be unity,” he was quoted as saying in The Times.
萨姆·雷伯恩(Sam Rayburn)是众议院任职时间最长的议长，那天有人问他国会是否支持参战，《时报》援引他的话说：“我认为大家对这件事意见一致。”
President Franklin D. Roosevelt declared war on Japan on Dec. 8, and three days later, Germany declared war on the United States.
富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)总统12月8日对日本宣战，三天后，德国向美国宣战。
World War II would see the first and only wartime nuclear strikes, after President Harry S. Truman ordered attacks on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, killing more than 125,000 people. More than 50 million died in the war over all.
第一次也是唯一的一次战争核攻击就发生在二战期间，1945年8月，哈里·S·杜鲁门(Harry S. Truman)总统下令对日本的广岛和长崎两座城市进行核攻击，造成12.5万人丧生。二战中的死亡人数超过了5000万人。
Decades after Pearl Harbor, nationalist parties are on the rise in the West and East alike. With the election of Donald J. Trump as president of the United States, the British vote to exit the European Union and the onset of nationalism in Hungary, France, Austria and Greece, among other nations, experts say the world is more fractious than it has been in a long time.
珍珠港事件过去几十年后，西方和东方的民族主义政党目前都在崛起。随着唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)当选为美国总统、英国投票决定退出欧盟，以及匈牙利、法国、奥地利和希腊等国民族主义出现，专家称当今世界比过去很长一段时间都更难以掌控。
“Seven decades after Pearl Harbor, the guilt, reflection and self-questioning that followed the Second World War have been replaced by resurgent nationalism on both sides of the globe,” Mark Leonard, the director of the European Council on Foreign Relations, said in a phone interview on Wednesday.
“珍珠港事件过去70年后，二战结束后的内疚、反思和自我质疑被东西方复苏的民族主义所取代，”欧洲对外关系委员会(European Council on Foreign Relations)主席马克·莱昂纳德(Mark Leonard)周三接受电话采访时说。
The passage of time has also buried old enmities. President Obama became the first sitting American president to visit a memorial of the bombing in Hiroshima. This month, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced that he would visit Pearl Harbor with Mr. Obama during a trip on Dec. 26 and 27. He will be the first sitting Japanese leader to travel to the site of the attack.
时间的流逝也埋葬了以前的敌意。奥巴马总统成为首位参观广岛一处轰炸纪念设施的在任美国总统。本月，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)宣布将在12月26日和27日访美期间，与奥巴马一同访问珍珠港。他将是首位前往该袭击现场的在任日本领导人。
The United States’ entry into World War II led to a postwar order in which the nation and Russia emerged as dual superpowers, with Europe left to rebuild.
美国加入二战导致了美国和俄罗斯成为两个超级大国、欧洲被迫重建的战后秩序。
Today, the spread of populist movements has disrupted politics on a global scale, and some experts see parallels between the world’s mood before the Pearl Harbor attack and the current atmosphere.
如今，民粹主义运动的扩散扰乱了全球政局，一些专家认为，当前气氛和珍珠港袭击前的世界氛围类似。
Stephen M. Saideman, a professor of International Affairs at Carleton University in Ottawa and an author of the 2015 book, “For Kin or Country: Xenophobia, Nationalism and War,” pointed to macroeconomic factors.
渥太华卡尔顿大学(Carleton University)国际事务教授、2015年《为了亲戚还是国家：仇外、民族主义与战争》(For Kin or Country: Xenophobia, Nationalism and War)一书的作者史蒂芬·M·赛德曼(Stephen M. Saideman)指出了宏观经济因素。
“Reactions to the Great Depression bred protectionism and authoritarianism,” he said. “The advent of Trump and of far-right populist movements around the world makes us all feel déjà vu.”
“对大萧条的应对导致了保护主义和威权主义，”他说。“特朗普和全球极右民粹主义运动的出现，让我们所有人都觉得似曾相识。”
Mr. Trump has argued that the United States needs to protect its own interests first. He says he is willing to withdraw American forces from Asia, and to renegotiate the nation’s alliances.
特朗普声称，美国首先需要保护自己的利益。他表示他愿意从亚洲撤军，并重新协商盟约。
In June 1941, the summer before the Pearl Harbor attack, an unsigned analysis in The Times explained why many Americans were tending toward pacifism in the face of Hitler’s rise. It said one reason was the “abiding memory” of World War I, during which many Americans died.
1941年6月，即珍珠港袭击前的那个夏天，《时报》发表了一篇未署名的分析文章，解释为什么面对希特勒的崛起，很多美国人倾向于和平主义。文章称其中一个原因是对一战的“永恒记忆”。一战期间，大量美国人死亡。
Today, historical memory and first-person recollections of the Second World War are fading. Only about 620,000 of the 16 million Americans who served in the war are alive, according to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
如今，历史记忆和当事人对二战的回忆逐渐消失。据美国退伍军人事务部(Department of Veterans Affairs)称，参加过二战的1600万美国人中，只有大约62万还在世。
For Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, thousands paid tribute to the veterans who fought and died, flags across the nation flew at half-staff, and segments of the armed forces held a moment of silence.
在珍珠港事件纪念日(Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day)这一天，成千上万人向那些参加战斗和阵亡的老兵致敬，全美降半旗，武装部队的部分机构举行默哀活动。