Paris — THE day after the terrorist attacks in Paris was one my children won’t soon forget: They got to watch kids’ television all day long.
巴黎——我的孩子不会很快忘记巴黎发生恐怖袭击后的第二天：那一整天，他们都可以看儿童电视节目。
This was my strategy, while I tried to figure out what to tell them (and because I was afraid to take them outside). The attacks weren’t some distant news event; they happened in our neighborhood. Le Bataclan, where most of the killings occurred, is a six-minute walk from our apartment.
我采取这种策略，是因为我当时正在努力思考，该告诉他们些什么（也因为我很害怕带他们出门）。这次恐怖袭击不是远在天边的新闻事件，而是真切地发生在我们附近。伤亡最惨重的巴塔克兰音乐厅(Le Bataclan)，距离我们的公寓只有六分钟步行的路程。
That’s a safe distance, compared with how close others I know came to the attacks. My friend Carmela, who lives near the Canal St.-Martin, was at the dinner table with her daughters when they heard gunshots outside. Her 8-year-old, primed from the shootings at Charlie Hebdo in January, was the first to realize how serious it was, asking, “Mommy, is it an attack?”
与距离袭击近在咫尺的其他人相比，这是一段安全的距离。我的朋友卡梅拉(Carmela)住在圣马丁运河(Canal St.-Martin)附近，当她和女儿们吃晚餐时，听到了窗外的枪声。她八岁的女儿在1月《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)枪击案后就有了经验，是第一个意识到事态有多严重的人。她问：“妈妈，是发生袭击了吗？”
“No, I’m sure it’s not, it can’t be,” Carmela replied. Then she looked outside her window and saw bodies on the ground at Le Carillon, the cafe a few doors down.
“不，我确定不是，不可能是，”卡梅拉回答她。随后，她望向窗外，看见尸体倒在Le Carillon咖啡馆的地上，咖啡店的几扇门倒塌下来。
French newspapers and TV shows have done stories and special issues on how to talk to kids about the attacks. I’ve been reading them avidly. Their advice springs straight from Françoise Dolto, the influential psychoanalyst who was the French equivalent of Dr. Spock: Be honest.
法国的报纸和电视节目制作了一些特别栏目，讲述如何向孩子谈论这次袭击，我如饥似渴地看完了。他们的建议都直接来自著名的精神分析学家弗朗索瓦兹·多尔多(Françoise Dolto)，她的地位相当于法国版的斯波克博士(Benjamin Spock)。建议即是：诚实地告诉孩子。
Beginning in 1976, Dr. Dolto did a daily 10-minute radio show in which she responded to letters from parents. One of her recurring messages was that kids don’t need to be constantly happy; they need to understand what’s going on around them. Even in tough times, parents should tell them the truth — often in simple terms — and help them process it. It’s far worse if kids sense that something’s wrong, but no one talks to them about it. She advised bringing even a small child to a grandparent’s funeral, and gently explaining, “Voilà, it’s the burial of your grandfather, it’s something that happens.”
自1976年起，多尔多博士就在她十分钟的广播节目里，回复来自家长的信件。她反复重申的一个观点就是，孩子不需要一直保持无忧无虑，他们需要了解身边发生了什么事。即使是在艰难时刻，家长也应该告知他们真相——常常要用简单的语汇，并帮助他们理解。如果孩子发觉有不好的事情发生，却没有人向他们谈起，情况只会更糟糕。她建议带孩子参加祖父的葬礼，哪怕孩子还很小，并温和地向孩子解释：“瞧，这是你祖父的葬礼，人生总有这样一天。”
Children “don’t live on planet Mars,” said François Dufour, editor in chief of Le Petit Quotidien and two other daily French newspapers, for kids ages 6 to 17. “They live in the same world we do.” But there are limits; he and others agreed that parents shouldn’t show kids any photos or footage of the violence. ”My advice to parents is to start with the questions of the children,” he said.
儿童“并非生活在火星”，弗朗索瓦·杜福尔(François Dufour)说，他是《小小日报》(Le Petit Quotidien)和其他两份法国日报的主编，这些报纸面向6至17岁的孩子。“他们和我们生活在同一个世界。”但也要有底线，他和其他人一样，认为父母不应该让孩子看到任何涉及暴力的照片或镜头。他说，“我对父母的建议是，从孩子们的提问开始。”
On Sunday, Mr. Dufour assembled a group of children in the newsroom and solicited their questions on Friday night’s attacks — to include (and answer) in special editions of the newspapers. A 10-year-old named Théodore asked how a sweet baby could grow up to be an evil terrorist. “They couldn’t have been terrorists with their parents, that’s for sure,” he said. “Maybe they were taken hostage by terrorists?”
周日，杜福尔在编辑室召集了一群孩子，讯问他们关于周五晚上发生的恐怖袭击，都想知道些什么。这些问题（及答案）将在报纸的特别版刊出。一位名叫蒂奥多(Théodore)的十岁男孩问，可爱的婴儿是如何长大成为邪恶的恐怖分子的。“如果是父母带大的，他们不可能变成恐怖分子。这毫无疑问呀。”他说道，“或许他们是被恐怖分子绑架来的人质？”
Others wanted to know whether any children were killed; how the terrorists chose their targets; why they killed people who hadn’t done anything wrong; and why they didn’t like soccer or rock ‘n’ roll. (Mr. Dufour told them about the Islamic State statement calling the concert at Le Bataclan perverse.)
其他孩子想知道是否有儿童遭到杀害，恐怖分子是如何选择他们的目标的，以及他们为什么要杀害无辜的人，甚至恐怖分子是否喜欢足球或者摇滚乐。（杜福尔告诉他们，伊斯兰国发表声明，谴责巴塔克兰音乐厅举办的音乐会令人厌恶。）
The kids also didn’t understand why someone would carry out an attack, if they were just going to kill themselves afterward. (Because some people are willing to die for an idea, Mr. Dufour said calmly.)
孩子们也不理解，既然紧接着也会让自己丧命，为什么还要实施袭击。（杜福尔平静地说，因为有些人愿意为信念而死。）
The question of the day was the one we grown-ups were asking, too: Will the terrorists come back?
当天被问的最多的问题，也是我们成年人一直在问的：恐怖分子会回来吗？
Nobody knows. Mr. Dufour said his newspapers would describe the increased police presence and other measures, but “it’s impossible for me to say there won’t be another attack.”
没人知道答案。杜福尔表示，他所供职的报纸会报道警力增加和其他措施，但“我不可能说不会再发生袭击”。
A special kids’ edition of the newspaper Libération explained that “what happened is very sad and very difficult, attacks are still very rare. But for now, we cannot say there won’t be more.”
《解放报》(Libération)的儿童特刊解释说，“发生的事情令人非常伤心，非常难以面对，但袭击依然很少见。不过目前，我们没法说不会再有袭击发生。”
On Sunday, parks were open again, and cafes were full. I ran into friends who looked relieved to be outside, but spooked. The shootings were aimed at people just like us: average Parisians out for dinner in the neighborhood.
周日当天，公园重新开放，咖啡馆里也满是人。我碰到了几个朋友，他们看上去因为能走出家门而松了一口气，但仍处于受惊的状态。此次事件中，枪口对准了我们这样的人：在家附近吃饭的普通巴黎人。
One friend said her 9-year-old told her he wasn’t afraid after the Charlie Hebdo attack, which was aimed at journalists, but that he is scared now. (“From that I knew he understood what happened,” she said.) He got unlimited TV time on Saturday, too.
一个朋友说，她9岁的儿子告诉她，针对记者的《查理周报》袭击事件过后他没有害怕，但现在却觉得害怕了。（她说，“我从这一点知道，他明白发生了什么事情。”）周日当天，他也看了很长时间的电视。
Another friend, who teaches elementary school, told her 4-year-old that “bad guys killed some people.” The little girl said nothing, but later handed her a drawing of a “dead princess.”
另一个教小学的朋友对4岁的女儿说，“坏人杀害了一些人。”小姑娘什么也没说，但后来递给了她一幅画，画的是“死去的公主”。
My friend who heard gunshots outside her window has been trying to answer all her daughters’ questions: Will we get shot? Will we die? Will you die? Who were the people who died at the cafe next door? What exactly did you see when you looked out the window? (The shooters killed at least 15 people at Le Carillon and Le Petit Cambodge, a restaurant across the street.)
听到窗外传来枪声的那个朋友，一直在努力回答女儿的所有问题：“我们会中弹吗？我们会死吗？死在旁边那家咖啡馆的人是谁？你透过窗户到底看到了什么？（枪手在Le Carillon咖啡馆和街对面的“小柬埔寨”[Le Petit Cambodge]餐厅杀害了至少15人。）
My daughter wanted to know whether it was normal to have two terrorist attacks in your neighborhood in less than a year. When I asked her advice on talking to kids about the attacks, she suggested that parents tell the story of something similar that happened during their own childhoods, and then describe how they overcame it.
我女儿想知道，不到一年的时间里，家附近就发生两起恐怖袭击是否正常。我问她，向小孩子讲述袭击的事情时，她有什么建议？她的建议是，家长讲述自己童年时发生过的类似事情，然后再描述自己是怎么克服的。
I struggled to think of anything, then finally told her that my house was robbed twice, while no one was home. I was scared, but gradually got over it. Then I asked if she felt better.
我努力回想类似的事情，最后告诉她我家被抢劫过两次，都是在家里没人的时候。我当时很害怕，但后来逐渐恢复过来了。然后我问她有没有觉得好点了。
“Medium,” she said.
“中等，”她说。
Under the circumstances, medium is pretty good.
在这种情况下，中等已经算相当好了。