The rupiah is falling! Head for the hills! On second thought, keep calm and carry on.
印尼盾正在贬值！赶紧逃命！转念一想，还是保持淡定、继续前行吧。
In case you’re wondering, the rupiah is the national currency of Indonesia, and, like many other emerging-market currencies, it has fallen a lot over the past few months. The thing is, the last big rupiah plunge was in 1997-98, when Indonesia was the epicenter of an Asian financial crisis. In retrospect, that crisis was a sort of dress rehearsal for the much bigger crisis that engulfed the advanced world a decade later. So should we be terrified about Asia all over again?
请不要一头雾水，印尼盾是印度尼西亚货币，和其他新兴市场货币一样，它在过去数月中大幅贬值。问题在于，印尼盾上一次大跌是在1997年至1998年，当时印尼是亚洲金融危机的震中。回过头来看，那场危机在某种程度上不过是一次彩排，10年后发生了一场规模更浩大的危机，席卷了整个发达世界。那么，我们应该再一次为亚洲的形势而胆寒吗？
I don’t think so, for reasons I’ll explain in a minute. But current events do bring back memories — and they are, in particular, a reminder of how little we learned from that crisis 16 years ago. We didn’t reform the financial industry — on the contrary, deregulation went full speed ahead. Nor did we learn the right lessons about how to respond when crisis strikes. In fact, not only have we been making many of the same mistakes this time around, in important ways we’re actually doing much worse now than we did then.
我并不这样认为，至于原因我马上就会解释。不过，当前的情况的确勾起了对过去的回忆，尤其会令人联想到，我们从16年前那场危机中所汲取的教训是多么的不足。我们非但没有对金融业进行改革，相反还一直沿着放松监管的方向狂奔。我们也没有学明白在危机来袭时如何应对。事实上，这一次我们不仅犯了许多相同的错误，在某些重要方面，我们的所作所为甚至比上次糟得多。
Some background: The run-up to the Asian crisis bore a close family resemblance to the run-up to the crisis now afflicting Greece, Spain and other European countries. In both cases, the origins of the crisis lay in excessive private-sector optimism, with huge inflows of foreign lending going mainly to the private sector. In both cases, optimism turned to pessimism with startling speed, precipitating crisis.
来看一些背景情况：亚洲金融危机之前的情况，与今天困扰希腊、西班牙和其他欧洲国家的危机发生前的情况，具有密切的家族相似性。两种情形中，危机的根源都在于私营部门的过度乐观，大量外国贷款主要都流向了私营部门。两种情形中，伴随着突如其来的危机，从乐观转向悲观的速度都快得惊人。
Unlike Greece et al., however, the crisis countries of 1997 had their own currencies, which proceeded to drop sharply against the dollar. At first, these currency declines caused acute economic distress. In Indonesia, for example, many businesses had large dollar debts, so when the rupiah plunged against the dollar, those debts ballooned relative to assets and income. The result was a severe economic contraction, on a scale not seen since the Great Depression.
然而，与希腊等国不同，1997年发生危机的国家有自己的货币，这些货币兑美元的汇率出现暴跌。最初，货币贬值造成了经济的极度不景气。举例来说，印尼的许多公司负有大笔美元债务，当印尼盾兑美元汇率大幅下跌时，债务规模相对于资产和收入出现了急剧扩大。结果导致经济严重萎缩，其程度是大萧条之后所没有过的。
Fortunately, the bad times didn’t last all that long. The very weakness of these countries’ currencies made their exports highly competitive, and soon all of them — even Indonesia, which was hit worst — were experiencing strong export-led recoveries.
幸运的是，糟糕的状况没有持续太久，极低的汇率让这些国家的出口变得极富竞争力，没过多长时间，所有国家——包括受冲击最严重的印尼——都迎来了由出口带动的强劲复苏。
Still, the crisis should have been seen as an object lesson in the instability of a deregulated financial system. Instead, Asia’s recovery led to an excessive showing of self-congratulation on the part of Western officials, exemplified by the famous 1999 Time magazine cover — showing Alan Greenspan, then the Fed chairman; Robert Rubin, then the Treasury secretary; and Lawrence Summers, then the deputy Treasury secretary — with the headline “The Committee to Save the World.” The message was, don’t worry, we’ve got these things under control. Eight years later, we learned just how misplaced that confidence was.
尽管如此，这场危机还是应该被当作一个深刻教训：监管松弛造会成金融体系的不稳定。然而，亚洲的复苏却令西方官员表现出过分的自鸣得意，有1999年《时代》(Time)杂志那个著名的封面为证：时任美联储(Fed)主席艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)，时任财政部长罗伯特·鲁宾(Robert Rubin)，和时任财政部副部长劳伦斯·萨默斯(Lawrence Summers)一起出现在了封面上，标题为“拯救世界的团队”(The Committee to Save the World)。意思是说，别担心，那些事都在我们的掌握之中。8年过后，我们才知道那种自信有多离谱。
Indeed, as I mentioned, we’re actually doing much worse this time around. Consider, for example, the worst-case nation during each crisis: Indonesia then, Greece now.
事实上，正如我所提到的，这一次我们的所作所为的确要糟糕得多。可以留意一下两次危机中处境最差的国家：当年是印尼，现在是希腊。
Indonesia’s slump, which saw the economy contract 13 percent in 1998, was a terrible thing. But a solid recovery was under way by 2000. By 2003, Indonesia’s economy had passed its precrisis peak; as of last year, it was 72 percent larger than it was in 1997.
印尼的萧条十分糟糕，1998年该国经济总量收缩了13%。但到了2000年，该国已经走在了经济稳步复苏的道路上。到2003年，印尼经济总量超越了危机前的高点，去年的经济总量与1997年相比则高出72%。
Now compare this with Greece, where output is down more than 20 percent since 2007 and is still falling fast. Nobody knows when recovery will begin, and my guess is that few observers expect to see the Greek economy recover to precrisis levels this decade.
现在与希腊对比一下：经济产出自2007年以来已经下降了20%还多，并且依然在快速下降。没人知道复苏何时才能到来，我猜几乎没有哪个观察人士会认为在这个十年里，希腊经济能恢复到危机以前的水平。
Why are things so much worse this time? One answer is that Indonesia had its own currency, and the slide in the rupiah was, eventually, a very good thing. Meanwhile, Greece is trapped in the euro. In addition, however, policy makers were more flexible in the ’90s than they are today. The International Monetary Fund initially demanded tough austerity policies in Asia, but it soon reversed course. This time, the demands placed on Greece and other debtors have been relentlessly harsh, and the more austerity fails, the more bloodletting is demanded.
如今的情况为什么这样糟？答案之一是，印尼有自己的货币，印尼盾的贬值最终变成了一件挺好的事情；而希腊却为欧元所困。不过除此之外，上世纪90年代的政策制定者也比今天的这些人更灵活。当年，国际货币基金组织(IMF)起初要求在亚洲实行严厉的紧缩政策，但它很快就改弦易辙了。而这一次，加诸希腊以及其他债务国的要求极为苛刻，且紧缩政策越是不起作用，就越是要求这些国家“放血”。
So, is Asia next? Probably not. Indonesia has a much lower level of foreign debt relative to income now than it did in the 1990s. India, which also has a sliding currency that worries many observers, has even lower debt. So a repetition of the ’90s crisis, let alone a Greek-style never-ending crisis, seems unlikely.
那么，接下来会是亚洲吗？大概不会。与上世纪90年代相比，现在印尼外债水平相对于收入而言要低得多。印度货币也出现了大幅贬值，让许多观察人士忧心忡忡，但该国的外债水平甚至还要更低。所以，上世纪90年代的危机看来并不会重新上演，更别说出现什么希腊式的永无止境的危机了。
What about China? Well, as I recently explained, I’m very worried, but for entirely different reasons, mostly unrelated to events in the rest of the world.
那么中国呢？正如我最近所阐明的，我非常担心，但中国让我担心的原因与此完全不同，大部分都和其他地区的事件无关。
But let’s be clear: Even if we are spared the spectacle of yet another region plunged into depression, the fact remains that the people who congratulated themselves for saving the world in 1999 were actually setting the world up for a far worse crisis, just a few years later.
不过，坦白讲，即便我们不必目睹另外一个地区陷入萧条，也必须要承认这个事实：那些在1999年为拯救世界而沾沾自喜的人，实际上给若干年后发生的远更严峻的危机，埋下了伏笔。