As America completes another costly, polarized and exhausting election cycle, it’s commonplace to characterize our society as being divided into warring tribes of liberals and conservatives. But this view oversimplifies the causes of our political differences.
美国正在度过另一个昂贵的、两极分化的、使人筋疲力尽的选举周期，把美国社会划分为自由派和保守派这两个敌对族群的做法已经司空见惯。但这种观点把人们存在政治分歧的原因过于简单化了。
Most people aren’t ideologically pure, and most don’t derive their opinions from abstract ideologies and principles. People are more strongly influenced by the effects of policies on themselves, their families and their wider social networks. Their views, in short, are often based on self-interest.
大多数人在意识形态方面并不纯粹，而且大多数人的看法也并非源自于抽象的意识形态和原则。在塑造人们的看法方面效果更大的，是政策对自己、家人以及更广泛一些的社区的影响。总之，人们的观点经常都是以自己的利益为基础。
This point may seem obvious, but it is overlooked by many political scientists who focus on other explanations: parents and peers, schools and universities, political parties and leaders, and that abstract and nebulous catchall, “values.” But the most straightforward explanation, demographics, is also the most persuasive.
这一点似乎是显而易见的，但很多政治科学家都忽视了它，转而专注于其他解释：父母和同辈、学校和大学、政党和领袖、以及“价值观”这个抽象和含糊的庞杂概念。但人口统计学特征是最简单的解释，也是最有说服力的解释。
Consider the evidence: Unemployed people are more than twice as likely as people working full time to want unemployment benefits increased. African-Americans are by far the most likely proponents of affirmative action and government help for African-Americans. Rich white men are especially likely to oppose income redistribution. Of course, there are many exceptions, from African-American conservatives like Herman Cain and Ben Carson to redistribution-loving tycoons like Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates. But they are not typical.
我们来看看证据：在主张增加失业津贴的人中，失业者是全职员工的两倍。非洲裔美国人最有可能拥护平权行动和政府帮助非洲裔美国人的政策。富有的白种人男性尤其可能反对收入再分配。当然也有很多例外，比如像赫尔曼·凯恩(Herman Cain)和本·卡森(Ben Carson)这样的非洲裔美国人保守派，以及推崇再分配的富豪沃伦·巴菲特(Warren E. Buffett)和比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)。但他们并不普遍。
Self-interest is not limited to economics. People who want to have sex but don’t at the moment want babies are especially likely to support policies that ensure access to birth control and abortion. Immigrants favor generous immigration policies. Lesbians and gay men are far more likely to oppose discrimination based on sexual orientation. Those who aren’t Christian are far more likely to oppose discrimination based on religion. Those who do best under meritocracy — people who have a lot of education and excel on tests — are far more likely to want to reduce group-based preferences, like affirmative action.
自利现象并不限于经济学。想要性生活，但又不想马上要小孩的人，特别有可能支持有利于避孕和堕胎的政策。移民会大力支持宽松的移民政策。同性恋者更有可能反对性取向歧视。不是基督徒的人更有可能反对宗教歧视。那些在英才制度下表现最好的人——受过很多教育，考试成绩优秀——更可能希望减少基于群体的优先政策，比如平权行动。
A focus on self-interest helps explain why three-quarters of people who went to church as children don’t attend church in their 20s. The young people most likely to abandon the church are those engaging in the kinds of lifestyles — involving alcohol, recreational drugs, premarital sex and nonmarital cohabitation — that religious conservatives condemn.
把侧重点放在自利现象上，有助于解释为什么四分之三小时候去教堂的人，在20多岁时不再去教堂。生活方式涉及酒精、毒品、婚前性行为和非婚同居的年轻人，是最有可能背离教会的人群。这些生活方式受到了保守宗教人士的谴责。
Something similar explains the economic views held by college-educated people. Most end up leaning right on tax-and-spend issues later in life because — having been to college — they have higher incomes. Despite their early socialization, as adults start making their own decisions, their religion and politics usually align with their interests.
类似的事情，可以解释受过大学教育的人所秉持的经济观。随着年龄的增长，大多数最后都会在税收收入问题上偏向右翼，因为他们上过大学，收入更高。不管其早年的出身背景，当成年人开始自己做决定的时候，他们的宗教和政治观念通常与他们的利益保持一致。
Republicans and Democrats differ in another important way: in their commitments to policies that favor members of some groups over others. Democrats, for instance, favor policies that protect racial minorities, immigrants, gays and non-Christians. For this reason, they attract members of these groups (especially those with the most education). Republicans, in contrast, favor policies that work against members of these groups.
共和党和民主党还在另外一个重要方面上存在差异：它们坚持的政策对某些群体的倾向性。比如，民主党青睐那些保护少数种族、移民、同性恋、非基督徒的政策。出于这个原因，民主党也会吸引这些群体的成员（尤其是受教育最高的那些人）。相反，共和党青睐的政策则不利于这些群体。
Raising the issue of interests in politics often leads to this question: What about working-class whites who vote Republican? Our research confirms what other scholars have pointed out: It’s not true that these voters ignore their economic interests. Over the past decade, among whites with household incomes in the bottom fifth, there have been roughly eight Republican voters for every 10 Democratic ones. Among the top fifth, there are around 16 Republican voters for every 10 Democratic voters.
在政治讨论中谈到利益的问题，常常会引出这样一个问题：投共和党的工薪阶层白人是怎么回事呢？我们的研究印证了其他学者提出的观点：说这些选民忽视自己的经济利益是不正确的。过去10年里，家庭收入最低的五分之一人口当中的白人，投票支持共和党和支持民主党的比例是8:10。而收入最高的五分之一当中，支持共和党和支持民主党的比例则是16:10。
In short, when less-educated, white, native-born, heterosexual Christians vote for Republicans, they’re not necessarily ignoring their interests. They simultaneously hold conservative views on discrimination issues and liberal views on tax-and-spend issues. They often don’t vote, but when they do, they split relatively evenly between the parties.
简而言之，基督徒、异性恋、生于美国、教育程度较低的白人如果投票支持共和党，并不一定是在忽视自己的利益。他们在歧视性议题上持保守派观点，同时又在税收和开支议题上持自由派观点。他们常常不投票，但如果投票，会相对平均地支持两个政党。
African-American churchgoers are similarly divided — conservative on lifestyle issues, liberal on economic ones — but tend to favor Democrats.
经常去教堂的非裔美国人也同样存在分化，他们在生活方式议题上趋向保守派，在经济议题上趋向自由派。不过他们倾向于支持民主党。
If the United States set policy simply by polling its residents, it would look quite different. There would be greater spending on the poor, health care, Social Security and education. Immigration would be reduced. School prayer would be allowed. Anti-American speech by Muslims would be restricted. Abortion would be legal in cases of rape and fetal deformity, but illegal if the abortion was motivated by not wanting more children, by being poor, or by being single.
如果美国制定政策时，只是依据民意调查，情况可能就会大不相同。医疗、教育、扶助穷人、社会保障领域的支出会扩大；移民会减少；在学校祷告会得到允许；穆斯林的反美言论会受到限制；如果是因为强奸和胎儿畸形，堕胎就是合法的，但如果堕胎的动机是贫困、不想再要孩子、孕妇是单身，则是非法的。