Last week’s big business news was the announcement that Comcast, a gigantic provider of cable TV and high-speed Internet service, has reached a deal to acquire Time Warner, which is merely huge. If regulators approve the deal, Comcast will be an overwhelmingly dominant player in the business, with around 30 million subscribers.
上周的重大产经新闻是，康卡斯特(Comcast)宣布与时代华纳(Time Warner)达成了收购协议。超级庞大的康卡斯特是提供有线电视与高速互联网服务的巨头，相形之下，时代华纳不过一般庞大而已。如果获得监管部门的批准，康卡斯特将就此成为行业内的绝对霸主，拥有大约3000万的用户。
So let me ask two questions about the proposed deal. First, why would we even think about letting it go through? Second, when and why did we stop worrying about monopoly power?
那么，请允许我提出关于这起潜在交易的两大问题。首先，为何我们竟然会考虑让它通过？其次，何时开始我们不再担心垄断，原因何在？
On the first question, broadband Internet and cable TV are already highly concentrated industries, with a handful of corporations accounting for most of the customers. Once upon a time antitrust authorities, looking at this situation, would probably have been trying to cut Comcast down to size. Letting it expand would have been unthinkable.
在第一个问题上，互联网宽带与有线电视行业本已高度集中，五六家企业包办了大多数的客户。曾几何时，反垄断部门看到此情此景很可能会尝试分拆康卡斯特。任其扩张则是难以想象的。
Comcast’s chief executive says not to worry: “It will not reduce competition in any relevant market because our companies do not overlap or compete with each other. In fact, we do not operate in any of the same ZIP codes.” This is, however, transparently disingenuous. The big concern about making Comcast even bigger isn’t reduced competition for customers in local markets — for one thing, there’s hardly any effective competition at that level anyway. It is that Comcast would have even more power than it already does to dictate terms to the providers of content for its digital pipes — and that its ability to drive tough deals upstream would make it even harder for potential downstream rivals to challenge its local monopolies.
康卡斯特的首席执行官宣称无需多虑：“这笔交易不会在任何相关市场上减少竞争，因为我们两家公司并不存在重叠或竞争。实际上，我们各自运营的区域在邮政编码上没有任何重合之处。”不过，这番说辞显然不诚恳。对康卡斯特进一步扩张的重大忧虑，并非是降低地方市场上对客户的竞争——原因之一在于，该级市场上本来就没什么有效的竞争可言。真正的忧虑在于，康卡斯特将拥有比现在更强大的力量来左右为其数字渠道输送内容的供应商，而且，它在上游推动苛刻交易的能力将使潜在的下游竞争者更加难以在地方层面上打破它的垄断。
The point is that Comcast perfectly fits the old notion of monopolists as robber barons, so-called by analogy with medieval warlords who perched in their castles overlooking the Rhine, extracting tolls from all who passed. The Time Warner deal would in effect let Comcast strengthen its fortifications, which has to be a bad idea.
关键是，康卡斯特完全吻合强盗男爵的老式垄断观念。之所以叫“强盗男爵”，是因为它们类似于在莱茵河畔修建城堡的中世纪领主，从来往人群身上一概榨取买路钱。收购时代华纳的交易实际上将加强康卡斯特的堡垒，因此必然是件坏事。
Interestingly, one cliché seems to be missing from the boilerplate arguments being deployed on behalf of this deal: I haven’t seen anyone arguing that the deal would promote innovation. Maybe that’s because anyone trying to make that argument would be met with snorts of derision. In fact, a number of experts — like Susan Crawford of Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, whose recent book “Captive Audience” bears directly on this case — have argued that the power of giant telecommunication companies has stifled innovation, putting the United States increasingly behind other advanced countries.
有趣的是，倡导这笔交易的种种标准说辞中似乎少了一种老生常谈：我还没看到任何人提出，该交易会促进创新。或许是因为，谁敢这么说都会被嗤之以鼻。实际上，众多专家认为，通讯业巨头的大权扼杀了创新，使得美国越来越落后于其他发达国家。本杰明·卡多佐法学院(Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law)的苏珊·克劳福德(Susan Crawford)最近撰写了《被俘虏的观众》(Captive Audience)一书，直指这一问题。
And there are good reasons to believe that this isn’t a story about just telecommunications, that monopoly power has become a significant drag on the U.S. economy as a whole.
有充足的理由认为，此类情况不只发生在通讯行业。垄断已成为拖累美国整体经济的重大因素。
There used to be a bipartisan consensus in favor of tough antitrust enforcement. During the Reagan years, however, antitrust policy went into eclipse, and ever since measures of monopoly power, like the extent to which sales in any given industry are concentrated in the hands of a few big companies, have been rising fast.
美国两党曾经一致倾向于采取强力的反垄断措施。不过，在里根任期内，反垄断政策式微。从此以后，垄断权的衡量指标一直在快速攀升，比如特定行业销售额集中到几家巨头的程度。
At first, arguments against policing monopoly power pointed to the alleged benefits of mergers in terms of economic efficiency. Later, it became common to assert that the world had changed in ways that made all those old-fashioned concerns about monopoly irrelevant. Aren’t we living in an era of global competition? Doesn’t the creative destruction of new technology constantly tear down old industry giants and create new ones?
起初，反对垄断监管的观点援引经济效率来强调并购带来的所谓好处。后来，另一种主张流行起来，即世道变了，对垄断的种种老套忧虑已经过时了。我们难道不是活在全球竞争的时代里吗？新技术的创新性破坏力量难道没有三天两头地打翻旧行业，并推出新巨头吗？
The truth, however, is that many goods and especially services aren’t subject to international competition: New Jersey families can’t subscribe to Korean broadband. Meanwhile, creative destruction has been oversold: Microsoft may be an empire in decline, but it’s still enormously profitable thanks to the monopoly position it established decades ago.
虽说如此，许多商品，尤其是服务，实际上并未面临国际竞争：新泽西州的家庭用户可用不上韩国的宽带。而且，创新性破坏的能量一直被夸大了：微软(Microsoft)或许是衰败中的帝国，却仍然依仗着数十年前确立的垄断地位赚得盆满钵满。
Moreover, there’s good reason to believe that monopoly is itself a barrier to innovation. Ms. Crawford argues persuasively that the unchecked power of telecom giants has removed incentives for progress: why upgrade your network or provide better services when your customers have nowhere to go?
此外，完全有理由相信，垄断本身阻碍创新。克劳福德令人信服地论证了，通讯业巨头不加约束的权力消解了取得进步的积极性：客户们无处可逃的时候，干嘛要升级网络或者提供更优质的服务？
And the same phenomenon may be playing an important role in holding back the economy as a whole. One puzzle about recent U.S. experience has been the disconnect between profits and investment. Profits are at a record high as a share of G.D.P., yet corporations aren’t reinvesting their returns in their businesses. Instead, they’re buying back shares, or accumulating huge piles of cash. This is exactly what you’d expect to see if a lot of those record profits represent monopoly rents.
同样的现象可能会在阻碍宏观经济上起到重要作用。美国近期的实践中出现的一大谜题是，利润与投资之间脱节。利润在GDP中的占比创下历史新高，企业却没有把收益再次投入到生意中去。它们纷纷转而回购股份，或者坐拥巨额现金。倘若这种创纪录的利润中许多代表的是垄断利润，就必然会造成此类现象。
It’s time, in other words, to go back to worrying about monopoly power, which we should have been doing all along. And the first step on the road back from our grand detour on this issue is obvious: Say no to Comcast.
换句话说，是时候重拾对垄断权的忧虑，回到我们一直以来应当坚持的做法。从迷途上回归正轨的第一步是显而易见的：对康卡斯特说不。