When Donna Yip, a lawyer who lives in the financial district, went into labor with her second child in June, she had more than just her husband and medical team in her room at NewYork-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital.
唐娜·叶(Donna Yip)是一位住在金融区的律师，6月，她在纽约长老会摩根·斯坦利儿童医院生第二个孩子的时候，产房里除了她的丈夫和医疗团队，还有其他人。
Jackson Simmonds from the Julien Farel Restore Salon & Spa was also there, with a curling iron, hair dryer and boar bristle hairbrushes in his Longchamp tote. They were his tools to style Ms. Yip’s hair immediately after delivery.
此人是来自朱利安·法莱尔康复沙龙与水疗(Julien Farel Restore Salon & Spa)的杰克逊·西蒙德斯(Jackson Simmonds)，他的珑骧(Longchamp)大包里装着电卷发器、吹风机和猪鬃发刷，用来给刚刚生产完的叶女士打理发型。
Ms. Yip is one of a growing number of women who are booking hairstylists and makeup artists to come to their hospital room for postpartum grooming, typically with the first photographs of mother and child in mind.
如今，愈来愈多的女人开始预约发型师和化妆师到产房来，为她们做产后的梳妆打扮，一般是为了拍第一批母婴照。叶女士也是其中之一。
“I think someone realized, ‘Why should I not look good for that great picture that I’m going to show everybody, the first picture of my child?’ ” said Joel Warren, an owner of the Warren-Tricomi salons.
“我觉得她们意识到，‘我要给我的孩子拍第一张照片，它很棒，将来我要给所有人看，那我为什么不能打扮漂亮一点？’”沃伦-特里克米沙龙(Warren-Tricomi)的拥有者乔伊·沃伦(Joel Warren)说。
Those images are frequently posted on social media like Instagram, as Ms. Yip’s was, to be seen by a broad network of friends, colleagues and close family. It is probable that the practice has been fueled by the barrage of images of women like Kate Middleton, who after delivering her children left the hospital with sleek, bouncy hair that more readily suggested a leisurely blowout than the physically taxing experience of childbirth.
这样的照片经常被贴在Instagram之类社交媒体上，会有大量朋友、同事和家庭成员浏览，叶女士的照片也是如此。此外，凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)产后出院时，顶着一头轻盈柔顺的新发型，很容易让人觉得她只是气定神闲地出席了一次宴会，而不是经历了痛苦的分娩。类似的名人照片铺天盖地，自然也为这种风潮推波助澜。
“We have a lot of patients who have had a long labor, and they are like, ‘O.K., I want cool pictures of me and my baby,’ ” said Lisa Schavrien, the obstetric nurse navigator at Lenox Hill Hospital, who keeps in her mobile phone a list of hairstylists from nearby salons for the five to 10 new mothers for whom she helps arrange in-room appointments each month.
“我们有很多病人经历了漫长的生产之后，觉得‘啊，我想给我和宝宝拍很酷的照片’，”莱诺克斯山医院的产科护士指导丽莎·夏夫里安说。她的手机里存有一组附近美容沙龙里的发型师们的联系方式，每个月都会帮助五到十个新妈妈预约上门服务。
Though these treatments are far from ubiquitous (Mr. Warren’s salons have sent stylists on 10 hospital appointments with new mothers in the last couple of months), they are on the rise.
尽管这种服务远远称不上普遍（过去两个月里，沃伦的沙龙只接到10位新妈妈的产房预约），但的确是有所增长。
Julien Farel has had a 200 percent increase in such bookings (the salon declined to disclose the number of appointments) in the last three months. Stylebookings.com, a website offering to-go hair and makeup appointments, has been sending about five stylists a week on maternity calls. Glamsquad, the on-demand beauty app, reports an increase of 30 percent over the last six months.
过去三个月里，朱利安·法莱尔的类似预定数量增长了200%（沙龙拒绝透露具体预约数字）。提供上门理发与化妆预约服务的网站stylebookings.com每周都要派出五位造型师为产后的母亲服务。立即响应式美容服务应用Glamsquad称，类似需求在过去6个月里增长了30%。
“You figure you do it for other events,” said Patti Wilson, the director of photography at OK! Magazine, who plans to book a hairstylist through Stylebookings.com to come to her room at Mount Sinai Hospital when she delivers her first child later this year. “This is a moment where it’s one of those milestones. I’ll feel better if it’s blown out, and in pictures it will look better.”
“我发现自己出席其他大场合也要打理发型，”《OK!》杂志的摄影总监帕蒂·威尔逊(Patti Wilson)说，今年晚些时候，她将在西奈山医院迎来自己的第一个孩子，届时她打算通过Stylebooking.com预约一个发型师。“这个时刻是人生的里程碑之一。到时候我希望能感觉好一点，在照片里显得漂亮一点。”
Typically, stylists on maternity calls aim for low-key grooming, not a splashy fashion statement. “No one wants ‘I’m going to a black-tie event’ hair,” said Chris Lospalluto, a stylist at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger who has had a handful of such bookings. “They just want to look fresh, just a better version of themselves. You’ve got to spruce them up because everybody’s coming to see them.”
造型师们一般会为产后的母亲做简单低调的装扮，而不是花枝招展的时尚展示。“没有人会说，‘我要做出席正装晚宴的发型’，”造型师克里斯·洛斯帕鲁托(Chris Lospalluto)说，他来自莎莉·赫施博格旗下的香农·达伦色彩(Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger)，目前手头有好几桩这样的预约。“她们只想看上去清清爽爽，比自己本身好看一点。你得把她们打扮整齐，因为会有很多人来看望她们。”
Mr. Simmonds uses dry shampoo or spritzed water on new mothers who can’t shower or wash their hair after delivery. “It’s not like the full-on blowout you would have in a salon, for logistical reasons,” he said. “Nonetheless, it comes out looking good.” (For the record, he waited in a hallway while Ms. Yip was in labor, slipping back inside her room after her daughter Caroline Rose, or Rosie, was born.)
有些新妈妈产后无法洗头或沐浴，西蒙德斯会使用干洗洗发剂或喷雾。“这不是美发沙龙里那种全套造型，毕竟有人员设备上的限制，”他说。“不过，最后效果都很好。”（必须特意指出，叶女士生产时他一直在走廊里等待，待她的女儿卡洛琳·罗斯【小名罗茜】出生后才静悄悄地进入产房）。
A hospital-room booking with a stylist from an upscale salon can be expensive: An out-of-salon call by Mr. Lospalluto costs $700; the charge for a similar booking from Julien Farel’s salon is $500. Stylebookings.com appointments start at $180 before tax and tip. Prices for Glamsquad’s services begin at $50.
从高级沙龙预约造型师来产房的费用可能颇为昂贵。洛斯帕鲁托的上门服务索费700美元；朱利安·法莱尔的沙龙费用是500美元。Stylebooking.com网站的预约费用为180美元起（税前不计小费）。Glamsquad的服务费用是50美元起。
For some new mothers, the treatments offer an emotional boost as well as an aesthetic one. “It’s really important that you feel good, that you don’t look in the mirror and say, ‘Oh, my God,’ because having a baby is like running a marathon,” said John Barrett, founder of the namesake salon at Bergdorf Goodman. “Just feeling ‘I look normal’ afterward is such a nice thing. It’s good for the psyche.”
对于有些新妈妈来说，除了美学上的意义，这种服务也能改善情绪。“最重要的是让自己感觉良好，而不是照镜子的时候觉得‘太可怕了’，因为生孩子就像一场马拉松，”约翰·巴瑞特(John Barrett)说，他的美容沙龙以自己的名字命名，开在波道夫·古德曼(Bergdorf  Goodman)店内。“只要能觉得‘我看上去很正常’，就已经很好了。这对精神状态有好处。”