The last time I saw my old self, I was 27 years old and living in Boston. I was doing well in graduate school, had a tight circle of friends and was a prolific creative writer. Married to my high-school sweetheart, I had just had my first child. Back then, my best times were twirling my baby girl under the gloaming sky on a Florida beach and flopping on the bed with my husband — feet propped against the wall — and talking. The future seemed wide open.
我最后一次看见原本的那个自己，那是我27岁时，住在波士顿。我在读研究生，学业良好，拥有一群死党，是个多产的作家。我嫁给了高中时的男友，刚刚生下第一个孩子。当时，我最美好的时光是夕阳西下，在佛罗里达的海滩边轻轻摇晃着我的女儿；是晚上和丈夫一起跳上床，将双脚搭在墙上，两人说着话。未来看似有无限机会。
I don’t think there is a particular point at which I can say I became depressed. My illness was insidious, gradual and inexorable. I had a preview of depression in high school, when I spent a couple of years wearing all black, rimming my eyes in kohl and sliding against the walls in the hallways, hoping that no one would notice me. But back then I didn’t think it was a very serious problem.
我无法找到一个特定的阶段，跟人说，就是从那时起我开始抑郁了。我的疾病是潜伏、渐进而又无情的。在读高中时，抑郁症在我身上进行过预演，有两年时间，我整天全身上下穿的都是黑色系，眼圈涂着暗色的眼影粉，在学校的走廊里，我紧紧用身体顶着墙，希望这样就没人会注意到自己。但在那会儿，我还不觉得这种情况很严重。
The hormonal chaos of having three children in five years, the pressure of working on a Ph.D. dissertation and a genetic predisposition for a mood disorder took me to a place of darkness I hadn’t experienced before. Of course, I didn’t recognize that right away. Denial is a gauze; willful denial, an opiate. Everyone seemed in league with my delusion. I was just overwhelmed, my family would say. I should get more help with the kids, put off my Ph.D.
五年里生了三个孩子导致的激素水平不平衡、完成博士论文的压力，再加上情绪障碍症的遗传易感性，导致我步入了从未体验过的黑暗中。当然了，我没有立刻意识到这一点。否认是层薄纱；而坚定的否认则是一剂鸦片。身边的所有人看起来都跟我站在同一个自欺欺人的阵营里。我的家人会说，你就是压力太大了。你要请人帮忙带孩子，要把博士论文推后。
When I told other young mothers about my bone-wearying fatigue, they rolled their eyes knowingly and mumbled, “Right.” But what they didn’t realize was that I could scarcely push the stroller to the park, barely summon the breath to ask the store clerk, “Where are the Pampers?” I went from doctor to doctor, looking for the cause. Lab tests for anemia, low blood sugar and hypothyroidism were all negative.
在我跟其他年轻的妈妈诉说自己累成一滩烂泥时，她们很理解地翻翻白眼，跟我说：“一点没错。”但她们并没意识到，我疲惫得快要没力气推婴儿车去公园，快要没力气问店员“帮宝适(Pampers)放在哪里？”我换了一个又一个医生想要寻找病因。查了贫血、低血糖和甲状腺功能减退，结果都是阴性。
Any joy I derived from my children was now conjoined with grief. I couldn’t breathe the perfume of their freshly shampooed hair without being seized by the realization that they would not always be under my roof. While stroking their backs, I would mentally fast-forward their lives — noses elongating, tongues sharpening — until I came to their leave-taking, until I reached my death and, ultimately, theirs.
从孩子们身中汲取的快乐，现在与悲伤紧紧捆绑在一起。在闻着他们刚洗过的头发的芬芳时，我总会意识到冷峻的现实：他们不可能永远生活在我的保护之下。在轻抚着他们的后背时，我总会在内心深处想象着他们的将来——学会虚伪，日渐尖刻——最终，他们将离我而去，最终，我将死去，而后，他们也将不可避免归于尘土。
I lost my sense of competence. If a colleague remarked on my intelligence, I mentally derided him as being too stupid to know how dumb I was. If someone asked what I did for a living, I would say, “Nothing” — a remarkably effective conversation stopper. I couldn’t bear the thought of socializing; one night I jumped out of the car as my husband and I were driving to a party.
我也丢掉了好胜心。假如有同事赞赏我的智慧，我会在心里暗自嘲讽他实在是太蠢了，竟然看不出我是个笨瓜。假如有人问我做什么工作，我会说，“没工作”——这样一来，任何对谈都会戛然而止。我完全忍受不了社交；一天晚上，丈夫和我开车参加一个派对，结果我半道就从车上跳了下来。
Despite having these feelings in my mid-30s, when my kids were 8, 5 and 3, I was thriving professionally: I had recently completed my Ph.D. in geography, had just finished co-teaching a semester at M.I.T. as a lecturer and was revising my dissertation on spec for a respected university press. Yet several nights a week, I drove to the reservoir near my home, sat under a tree and, as joggers and their dogs ran past, thought about ending it all. There was a gun shop on the way to my poetry group; I knew exactly where to go when the time came.
这时，我三十五六岁，三个孩子分别是八岁、五岁和三岁，虽然出现了这些情绪，但在事业上我却一帆风顺：读完了地理学的博士学位，在麻省理工学院(MIT)担任讲师，完成了一学期的合讲课程，我的论文冒险投给了一家颇受推崇的大学出版社，正在润色阶段。但是，在每个星期，总有好几天晚上，我要开车去离家很近的一个水库，坐在树下，看着人们带着狗狗从身边跑过，想着要结束这一切。在参加诗人小组活动的路上，我会经过一家枪械店；待到时机成熟时，我清楚自己要去哪里。
My day, once broken by naps, gradually turned into lengthy stretches of sleep, punctuated by moments of wakefulness. My husband and I didn’t explain to the kids that I was depressed. “Mommy’s a little tired today,” we would say. A year or so earlier, a therapist told us to tell the children. “But they’re just kids,” we said. “What do they know?” “They know,” she said. When we eventually spoke to them, my oldest daughter came to me and asked: “Why did you keep it a secret? I thought all mothers were like you.”
我的白天，从间断打一两个盹，渐渐发展到连绵不断的长睡，中间只会偶尔醒一小会儿。我和丈夫并没跟孩子们解释，我这是因为抑郁。“妈咪今天有点累，”我们会这样跟他们说。在此一年前，或者更早，有一位心理治疗师告诉我们，应该对孩子们说出实情。我们说：“可他们还是小孩子，能懂什么呢？”“他们懂的，”她说。有一天，我们终于告诉了他们，大女儿抱着我问：“你们干嘛要保守这个秘密？我还以为天下的妈妈都跟你一样。”
After a few weeks of stopping at the reservoir, as suicide eclipsed all other thoughts, I finally told my husband about my worsening psychic pain. The next day I was hospitalized. It was June 1989. Even though we were living in Boston, we decided I should go to Chicago to work with the psychopharmacologist who, 15 years earlier, restored the health of my father, who had also been hospitalized for depression. As the cab pulled away from our house, I turned and saw three children’s hands pressed against the screen of an upstairs window. This is the way the world breaks.
在水库边逡巡了几个星期后，自杀渐渐占据了我全部的想法，我终于告诉丈夫自己的精神痛苦在加剧。第二天我就住院了。那是1989年6月。我们住在波士顿，但决定去芝加哥看病，找一位精神病药理学家，我的父亲也曾因抑郁住院，就是在这位医生的帮助下，父亲重拾健康。出租车载着我慢慢驶离，我转地头，看到三个孩子的小手按在楼上一扇窗户的纱窗上。就这样，我的世界分崩离析。
The moment the psych-unit doors locked behind me, I was stripped of my identity as wife, mother, teacher and writer and transformed into patient, room number and diagnosis. I couldn’t open a refrigerator without permission. If I were on suicide watch, I had to ask before going to the bathroom. I was told when to sleep and when to wake, when to eat and when to go to group. My routine, which at home had cleaved so closely to my children’s, now revolved around the clattering sounds of the food trays being brought three times each day from the service elevators into our unit. With my husband and children nearly 1,000 miles away, I was severed from my fixed stars. I missed my children’s smells, the way they used to wrap their bodies around my legs when I was on the phone. I brought my son’s comforter to the hospital for my bed. I remembered him with one leg thrown across the covers, a small foot peeking out from his pajamas.
精神病区的大门一扇扇在我身后紧锁，在那一刻，我作为妻子、母亲、老师和作家的身份全部被剥夺，取而代之的是病人、病室号和病情诊断。在未获得许可的情况下，我不能打开冰箱门。如果处在自杀监护期，在上厕所前我需要先打报告。何时睡、何时醒、何时吃饭、何时参加集体活动，这一切都是别人说了算。在家时，我的日常生活紧紧和孩子们联系在一起，而现在，则完全围绕着每天三次从电梯推进病区的餐盘发出的声响。丈夫和孩子距我有千里之遥，我的恒星离我是那么遥远。我想念孩子们的气味，想念当我打电话时，他们紧紧抱着我的双腿时的情形。我把儿子的小毯子带到了医院里，放在床上。我还记得睡觉时，他的一条腿搭在被子上，小脚从睡衣里钻了出来。
When my children visited, I had to resuscitate my maternal self, if only for an hour. I dragged myself to the shower, pulled on a pair of clean sweat pants and a fresh T-shirt and ran a streak of lipstick across my lips, hoping to look like a reasonable facsimile of a mother.
当孩子们来看我时，我得把母性的那一面召唤出来，哪怕只是一个小时。我挣扎着去洗澡，换上一条干净的运动裤和一件新洗过的T恤，胡乱涂一层唇膏，好让自己看起来像是个盗版的母亲样子。
My doctor used my first hospitalization as a so-called washout, a period during which he planned to take me off the medication I was on and introduce several drugs in several different combinations. The prospect of polypharmacy — taking many drugs at once — seemed foreboding. I read about Prozac’s giving some people entirely new personalities: happier, lighter, even buoyant. “Who are you going to turn me into?” I asked my doctor.
我的医生将我第一次住院当成是一次所谓的“大清洗”，在这个阶段，他计划撤下之前我吃的药物，用几种不同的组合方式让我试着吃几种新药。多重用药——一次服用多种药物——让人心生不安。我看到有报道说，百忧解(Prozac)会赋予一些病人全新的人格：更快乐、更轻松，甚至更轻佻。“你会把我变成什么人？”我问医生。
“I’m not turning you into anyone,” he said. “You’ll be yourself, only happier.”
“我不会把你变成别人。你还会是你，只会变得快活点，”他说。
“I don’t think I even have a self anymore.”
“我觉得自己根本就不会再有自我了。”
“We’ll find your self.”
“我们会找到你的自我。”
I was wary. “Just don’t turn me into Sandy Duncan.”
我还是很警惕。“只要别把我变成桑迪·邓肯(Sandy Duncan)就成。”
How much insult to the self is done by the symptoms of the disorder and how much by the drugs used to treat it? Paradoxically, psychotropic drugs can induce anxiety, nervousness, impaired judgment, mania, hypomania, hallucinations, feelings of depersonalization, psychosis and suicidal thoughts, while being used to treat the same symptoms. Before getting to the hospital, my daily moods ranged from bad to worse, each state accompanied by a profound depth of feeling. The first drug I was given was amitriptyline (Elavil), which, in the process of reducing my despair, blunted all my other emotions. I no longer felt anything. It was like going from satellite TV to one lousy channel.
对自我的羞辱，有多少是由精神障碍症的症状造成，又有多少是因用来治疗的药物而起？有点自相矛盾的是，精神病药物可导致焦虑、紧张、判断力受损、狂躁、轻度躁狂、幻觉、人格解体、思觉失调和轻生念头，而这些症状本来都是药物应该治疗的。在住院前，我每天的情绪可以从“坏”到“更坏”之间波动，每个阶段都伴随着深层次的感受。医生开给我的第一种药物是阿米替林(Elavil)，它在减少我的绝望感的同时，也让我的其他各种感觉都变得迟钝。我再也感受不到任何东西。就像是从卫星电视节目换成了一个无聊的有线频道。
While some medications affected my mood, others — especially mood stabilizers — turned my formerly agile mind into mush, leaving me so stupefied that if my brain could have drooled, it would have. Word retrieval was difficult and slow. It was as if the door to whatever part of the brain that housed creativity had locked. Clarity of thought, memory and concentration had all left me. I was slowly fading away.
一些药物影响了我的情绪，而另一些，尤其是情绪稳定剂，则将我原本活跃的思绪绞成了一堆烂泥，我变得呆若木鸡——如果大脑也能淌口水，那么我的大脑真的在滴滴嗒嗒地流着口水。对我来说，遣词造句变得困难且缓慢。就好像大脑负责创造力的那部分的大门被锁住了。清晰的思维、记忆力和注意力全部离我远去。我在一点点消褪。
I would try to talk to my doctors about my vanishing self, but they didn’t have much to say on the subject. Instead they focused on whether I could make eye contact or how much expression I showed in my face. They monitored my lithium and cortisol levels; they took an M.R.I. of my head. I received an EKG, was exposed to full-spectrum lighting and kept awake all night for sleep-deprivation therapy. Nurses jotted down their observations; my scribbled lines in art therapy were inspected. Everything was scrutinized — except the transformation of my self and my experience of its loss.
我想跟医生们讨论下正在消失的自我，而他们对这个话题却没多少可以说的。相比之下，他们反而更关注我是否能与别人进行目光交流，或者我的脸上能显露多少情绪。他们监控我摄入的锂盐和皮质醇水平；他们让我接受了一次脑部的核磁共振检查。我做了次心电图测试；曾暴露在全光谱灯的照射之下；也曾整晚不能睡觉，接受睡眠剥夺疗法。护士们不断草草写下观察结果；在艺术治疗中我随手写下的字句被拿去反复审读。所有一切都在被详细查看——除了我正在转变的自我，以及我对失去自我的体会。
My current psychiatrist, William Scheftner at Rush University Medical Center, says this is typical when treating patients with acute mental disorders. The primary goal at the height of a mental-health crisis is symptom reduction. That means monitoring patients’ sleep patterns, appetites and responses to medications — not worrying about philosophical questions like who they are and who they will become. “The issue of self just isn’t there,” he told me, “because you’re so preoccupied with whether someone is actually improving or not.”
我现在的精神病医生是拉什大学(Rush University)医学中心的威廉·谢夫特纳(William Scheftner)，他说，在治疗患急性精神障碍的病人时，给我使用的治疗方案很典型。在病人经历一场心理危机的顶点时，首要目标是减少症状。这就意味着监控病人的睡眠模式、食欲及用药反应——这不是思考哲学问题，比如他们是谁、他们将成为谁的时候。他告诉我：“医生们根本不关于什么自我，因为他们满脑子都想的是病人的病情是否确实有所改善。”
By August 1989, I was back in Boston with my husband and kids, having been discharged from the hospital almost three months after I was admitted. My children, like many people, mistook “discharge” for “recovery.” “Why did they let you out if you’re not better?” my daughter asked. I didn’t know how to explain the welter of factors that go into discharge: poses no threat to self or others; is functioning at a high-enough level to participate — however minimally — in the tasks of daily living. Recovery was not an end, I told her, but a process.
1989年8月，经过近3个月的住院治疗，我回到波士顿，与丈夫和孩子们重聚。和很多人一样，孩子们错误地将“出院”当成是“痊愈”。“如果你情况没有变好，他们为什么要让你出院呢？”女儿问。我不知道该如何解释得以出院的各种因素：看似不再对自己或他人构成威胁；能足以参与日常生活的事务——尽管参与度仍极低。我告诉女儿，痊愈并不是终点，而是过程。
The trees were starting to change colors. Acorns dropped and exploded like tiny bombs. My car was in the driveway; my clothes were in my closet. But things felt ill fitting and unfamiliar. “Whose kids are these?” I wondered. “And when is their mother coming to pick them up?” Nowhere was my otherness more keenly experienced than at the driveway at the grammar school. Everyone knew that I had been “away,” and why. I tried to imitate the other mothers, their relaxed camaraderie, their confidence, the way they threw their heads back when they laughed.
树木开始换上新颜。橡子纷纷坠落，像一枚枚小型炸弹那样猝然裂开。我的车停在车道里；我的衣服挂在衣柜里。可所有事物都让我感觉格格不入、生疏奇异。“这几个孩子是谁家的？”我心里想：“他们的妈妈什么时候能过来把他们接走？”没有什么地方比文法学校的车道更能让我尖锐地体察到这种异样的感觉。所有人都知道我“离开”了一阵子，也清楚原因。我很想模仿别的妈妈：她们之间无拘无束的友爱，她们的自信，还有她们大笑时将头扬起的样子。
Around Halloween, as our neighbors made wild-eyed pumpkins with crooked teeth, my children noticed that there were frightening things in our house, too. I had my first hypomanic episode. This was how my doctors confirmed that my depression wasn’t just depression — I had bipolar II disorder, like my father. With bipolar II, unlike bipolar I, the upward swing from depression stops at hypomania, not mania. Mania is having five grand pianos delivered to your house; trying to buy the Sears company; sleeping with the local baseball team. Hypomania is mania with a tether, and, while it might avert some of the financial and interpersonal disasters that unchecked mania may engender, it can still feel like a runaway train.
万圣前节后，邻居们都在给南瓜刻上大大的眼睛和歪歪斜斜的牙齿，我的孩子们注意到，在我们家里也发生了些吓人的事情。我第一次轻度躁狂发作。医生们因此得以确认，我不光得了抑郁症——我得的病跟父亲一样，是乙型双相障碍。跟甲型出现的狂躁不同，乙型双相障碍是抑郁和轻躁交替出现。狂躁的症状就好比同时订购五架三角钢琴，试图收购西尔斯公司(Sears)，或者跟当地棒球队的球员睡个遍。而轻躁是系上了链子的狂躁，轻躁发作时，也许不至于像无法控制的狂躁症那样带来经济上或人际关系上的灾难，但给人的感觉仍像是一列脱轨的火车。
By that point my vestigial self had grown used to my depressed self, with her somber mood and tenuous hold on life. Now a newcomer arrived. I seemed to have split into three: my shellshocked self, my depressed self and a brazen hypomanic self. We could practically hear the new girl sizing us up, cackling. Under her reign, we slept two hours a night. We ate half a sandwich and two potato chips a day. We packed the children’s lunchboxes at 3 a.m. We began to study for the MCATs (the fact that we had never taken a biology or chem class seemed irrelevant). We telephoned long-lost friends. The hypomanic self’s activities, from relentless lunch dates and impulsive spending sprees, left my tattered and depressed selves saying, “That’s not us” and “We don’t do that.”
在那时，我残存的自我已经开始习惯了那个抑郁的自我——她情绪消沉，对生活几乎失去控制力。而现在，一个新的自我驾到了。我好像是分裂成了三个人：一个是满目疮痍的自我，一个是抑郁的自我，另一个是厚颜无耻的轻躁自我。先前的两个自我甚至真的能听到那个新闯来的人在咯咯笑着不断长大。在她的控制下，我们每晚只睡两小时。我们在凌晨3点给孩子们做便当盒。我们开始研读美国医学院入学考试课程(MCAT)，从未上过生物和化学课这一点好像并不重要。我们给久未联系的朋友打电话。轻躁的自我做出种种行为，比如天天约人吃午餐，毫无节制地购物，令残存的自我和抑郁的自我不断辩解，“这真不是我们”，“我们不会做这种事情。”
I no longer went to bed with my husband. Instead I stayed awake, scribbling in my notebooks. My wakefulness worried my son. “I had a bad dream,” he said. “You were downstairs working in the middle of the night. And while everyone else in the house was sleeping, the whole house fell down on you.”
我不再和丈夫共眠。整晚我都不睡觉，在笔记本上刷刷地写着。我不眠不休，令儿子焦虑。他说：“我做了个恶梦。半夜你在楼下工作。在家里其他人都在睡觉时，整幢房子倒了，砸在你身上。”
“Oh,” I said, pulling him close. “That is a bad dream. Did anybody get hurt?”
“噢，”我将他拉到怀里，说：“确实是个恶梦呢。有人受伤了吗？”
“No, but the cats almost died.”
“没有，不过几只猫咪险些就死了。”
Every few weeks, I needed to buy smaller clothes. “What’s happening to you, Mommy?” my daughter asked. “You’re shrinking.”
每过几周，我就得买些更小号的衣服。“妈咪，你怎么了？”女儿问：“你在不停地缩水。”
Hypomania was consuming me. My doctor, in an effort to quash the hypomania, upped my lithium dose and catapulted me back into depression, back to Chicago, back to a locked psych unit, after New Year’s Day in 1990. A few weeks later, my kids came to visit. I met them in the lobby. The chair I was sitting in felt insubstantial; the walls seemed to bend. My son was excited. “I made a scientific discovery!” he said. “There can’t be a shadow in the darkness.” He understood depression better than my doctors, I thought. “Mommy?” he said a few moments later. He sounded miles away. I leaned back and fell asleep. I didn’t see them again for four months.
轻躁在剧烈消耗着我的身心。医生为了减缓轻躁症状，加大了我服用的锂盐剂量，结果我重新步上抑郁的老路，在1990年元旦过后，重回芝加哥，重回深锁的精神病区。几星期后，孩子们来看我。我在会客室里见他们。我觉得身上的椅子好像在飘，四面墙好像折叠了起来。儿子很兴奋，他说：“我有一个科学发现！光线暗的地方没有影子。”我想，他比我的医生们要更能理解抑郁的含义。没过一会儿他问：“妈妈？”他的声音离我仿佛有几里远。我往后一仰，睡着了。接下来的四个月，我没有见过他们。
My medical records show that by the spring, I thought I was in a Canadian train station and that it was 1976. I lugged a suitcase stuffed with towels around the unit, looking for the departure platform. If my self had been assailed by depression, then psychosis was the final blow. My sense of boundedness — where I stopped and other people or the environment began — was sloppy, like a toddler scribbling outside the lines. I didn’t envision myself as human; I pictured myself as black vermicelli on an asphalt driveway. For a brief time, I could neither write nor speak. My journals show a perseverating pencil — a long string of Ts or entries in hypergraphic writing, alternating between conventional and unconventional language: “They will have a stronstrazzly negative reaction to them. I need held . . . In stortingitoat — plus, the idea of [X] a new set of residential pleomorph — exoskeleton weitropstite jejoined to be betters. blep.”
我的病历显示，在这年春天，我认为自己身处加拿大的一处火车站里，觉得当时是1976年。我拖着装满毛巾的旅行箱在精神病区里四处走动，想要找到出发的站台。如果说我的自我已经被抑郁纠缠，那么，精神错乱则成为最后一击。我对界限的感受——在这一处我止步，而他人或外界进入——变得十分草率含糊，就好像一个小孩子在线格外涂涂抹抹。我不再视自己为人类；我把自己想象成一条掉在沥青马路上的黑色细面条。一度我无法写字讲话。我固执地用铅笔在日记里乱写一气——写长长的一串字母T，或者是图形文字，语言在正常与反常之间来回切换：“他们将会对他们产生墙裂的负面反应。我需要抓住……简单来说——并且，设置一组新型住宅多形体的想法——外骨骼将会发展得更好。布雷普。”
I hallucinated. The world was suddenly up for grabs; reality, an option. Rectangular rainbows streamed through the day-room windows. Nonexistent organ music pealed through the neighborhood on a Sunday morning. Peasants from a Jean-François Millet poster walked out of the frame and marched across the wall.
我产生了幻觉。世界突然间可以被我一把抓住；现实成了一种可要可不要的选择。白天，我会在窗外看到长方形的彩虹。周日上午，附近悠悠扬扬地传来根本不存在的风琴音乐声。让-瓦朗索瓦·米勒(Jean-François Millet)印刷画上的农夫从画框里走了出来，排着队穿过墙面。
Some researchers say that in psychosis, the self persists, however tenuously. Sue Estroff, a professor of social medicine at the University of North Carolina, described it as “more of a foreground, background thing. During psychosis, the self recedes.” But, she told me, “you’re still in there.” I don’t think so. If I had been allowed outside, I would have doubted the reality of my shadow.
一些研究人员认为，在精神错乱发作时，人的自我虽然变得十分渺小，但依然存在。北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)社会医学教授苏·埃斯特罗夫(Sue Estroff)形容这“无非是你方唱罢我登台。在精神错乱时，自我在节节败退。”但她对我说，“你的自我仍没有离开。”我不这么看。假如我当时能出得了门，我肯定会怀疑自己是不是真的有影子。
By early summer, the psychosis had run its course, and I returned to lucidity. The kids came to visit. They dragged me off the sofa and onto the carpet. We were laughing and crying simultaneously. I felt the surge of something primal.
到了这年夏初，精神错乱症终于结束了它的旅程，我的思维重新清晰起来。孩子们来探视了。他们把我从沙发上拽下来，拖到地板上。我们在一起又是大笑又是痛哭。我感觉到某种原始的情绪冒出头来。
Later that summer, after I became well enough to be discharged once again, we decided to move to the Chicago area so that I could continue working with my father’s doctor, whom I trusted, and be near our families. But seven months after moving into our new house, I was back in the hospital. I would be readmitted and discharged two more times over the next half-year. When I left the hospital for the last time in August 1991, I was 38, and while no longer intent on self-destruction, I was more accurately rescued, not restored.
这年夏末，我恢复到足以出院的程度，全家人决定搬到芝加哥地区，这样我能继续得到信任的医生——他既是我父亲也是我的医生——的帮助，也能离家人更近一点。但在搬进新家七个月后，我又一次入院。在接下来那半年里，我又反复出入医院两次。最后一次出院，是1991年8月，这时我已经38岁。我虽然再也没有自毁的想法，但这算不上重振自我，更准确的说法是我得到了拯救。
Taking care of children and running a household seemed like a herculean task. My husband and I realized we needed a full-time housekeeper. We found a wonderful woman who knew just what needed to be done: cook, clean and be a surrogate mother. While appreciative of her help, I felt as if my role had been usurped.
对我来说，照顾三个孩子、打理一个家，好像是无比艰巨的任务。我和丈夫意识到，我们需要一个全职管家。我们找到了一位极好的女士，她完全明白自己该做什么：做饭、打扫卫生，同时担任代理妈妈。我确实对她的帮助心怀感激，但同时也觉得自己的角色被僭越了。
I continued to see my doctor every week as an outpatient. But I was demoralized and failed to see much of a change. I asked him how he healed my father, maintaining him on only three lithium tablets a day, whereas I had experimented with about 100 different combinations and dosages of medications (including antidepressants like monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclics and, later, S.S.R.I.’s). “Because,” he said, “your dad was a Ford. You are a Ferrari.” I didn’t know if this was a compliment or an insult.
我仍然每周去门诊看一次病。但我斗志消沉，没感觉自己的病情有什么变化。我问医生，为什么他能治好我的爸爸，将他每天要吃的锂剂减到三片，而我却试了大概100种不同的药物组合和剂量搭配（当中包括各类抗抑郁药，比如单胺氧化酶抑制剂、三环，后来则试了选择性5羟色胺再吸收抑制剂）。他说：“这是因为你爸爸是辆福特车。你是辆法拉利。”我分不清这句话是恭维还是冒犯。
The first few years after my last hospitalization, I spent a lot of time on the shore of Lake Michigan, near my home. I collected hundreds of beach stones and organized them by size, color, shape and heft. Soon I had dozens of shoe boxes full of them. Sometimes I talked to the Russian fishermen looking for smelt on the pier; other times I walked alongside older women and helped them look for sea glass. I took three-hour naps every afternoon, trying to remember to set the alarm clock, so I would be awake when the kids came home from school. Many times they met a closed bedroom door.
出院后的头几年，我有很长时间是在离家不远的密歇根湖岸边度过的。我在湖滨收集了上千枚石头，将它们按大小、颜色、形状和重量分门别类。没过多久，这些石头就装满了十几个鞋盒。有时，我会跟码头上那些捕捞胡瓜鱼的俄罗斯渔夫聊天；也有些时候，我会跟一些老太太们一起散步，帮她们寻找海玻璃。每天下午我要睡三个小时午觉，我尽量记得上闹钟，这样孩子们放学回家时，能看到我醒着。但很多时候，他们只会看见一扇紧闭的卧室大门。
By 1995, I started to feel small changes. The medications were the same. I was still seeing my father’s doctor. I had the same support from my family and from my husband, who once, when I came home on a day pass, had pansies — my favorite flowers — planted along the path from the driveway to the house. The protective cocoon he made for me, along with time, allowed my self to regrow. I could feel my self filling in.
1995年，我开始觉察到细微的变化。我吃的还是一样的药。我还会去看我爸爸的医生。我依然从家人、从丈夫那里得到同样的支持，一次，我出去玩了一天，回家时看到丈夫在从车道到房子的那条小径上种满了我最喜欢的三色堇。他为我编织了一个牢固的茧，加上时间的帮助，终于令我的自我重新成长。我可以感觉到自我重新占据身心。
Gradually, I was able to fulfill more of my maternal role: helping with homework, driving to piano lessons, making the worst Rice Krispies Treats in the school. Our housekeeper, while still a tremendous support, was becoming more of a safety net than a primary caregiver. One of my favorite things was driving in the car with the kids, singing along to oldies, trying to answer their questions: “Is the sun going to fall on the earth?” “Where is the first car?” “Why are some books called a ‘turn-pager’?” I had lunch with family members and the occasional friend. With confidence easing its way back to my self, I volunteered at an anorexia foundation near my house. I lined the edges of my desk with stones. Writing was getting easier, words were unlocking. One day I was on the porch with the two younger kids, who were doodling with crayons, when I wrote down the word “pain.” Without thinking, I picked up a crayon and added the letter T to the end of the word. A half-hour later, we were at an art-supply store, buying brushes, tubes of paint and a canvas. We converted the unused third floor of our house into a cavernous studio. Passion had returned and, along with it, creativity.
我开始能履行更多的母亲职责：帮孩子们做功课，开车送他们去上钢琴课，做脆米花给他们带到学校吃——虽然这是史上最难吃的脆米花。管家仍然为我们带来了巨大的帮助，但她的角色越来越像是安全网，而不是孩子们最主要的养育者。我最喜欢的事情之一是开车载着孩子们，一路唱着老歌，努力回答他们的问题：“太阳会不会掉到地球上？”“最早的那辆汽车现在在哪里？”“为什么有些书被称作‘让人手不释卷’？”我开始和家人、间或也和朋友一起吃午饭。我轻而易举地找回了自信，于是开始在离家很近的一个有关厌食的基金会作义工。我在书桌边排了一排小石头。写作越来越轻松，词句不再被关在大门外。有一天，我和家里的老二和老三在阳台上，他们拿蜡笔涂抹着，我写下了“痛苦”(pain)这个词。随后，我不假思索拿起蜡笔，在它后面加上了字母“t”（这个词成为了“颜料”——译注）。半个小时后，我们去了一个美术用品店，购买画笔、颜料和画布。我们将家里一直没使用的三楼改装成一间像洞穴似的画室。激情回来了，与它一起回来的，是创造力。
One day, about eight years ago, it struck me that bipolar disorder was the hand I was dealt. I remembered what my father said to me when I moved from Boston: “Don’t look at what your disorder has taken away from you, try to find what it has given you.” I began speaking to family-education classes of the local chapter of a mental-health organization. I presented a paper at a conference. The more often I spoke, the less traumatic my experience seemed, the less sad, the less painful and, somehow, the less personal.
大概是在八年前吧，有一天我猛然惊觉：双相障碍就是我要面对的这一手牌。我记得在我从波士顿搬到芝加哥时，爸爸对我说：“你不要去关注双相障碍从你那里拿走了什么，你要试着去发现，它给了你什么。”我开始在一家心理健康机构的地方分会上，担任家庭教育课的讲师。我向一个研讨会递交了论文。我倾诉得越多，个人的经历好像就越不令人痛苦，越不令人伤感和刺痛，而且不知何故，也不再那么个人化。
Over the years, I’ve talked to clinicians about why the self is rarely mentioned in treating patients who suffer from mental illnesses that damage their sense of who they are. If anything, it seems that psychiatry is moving away from a model in which the self could be discussed. For many psychiatrists, mental disorders are medical problems to be treated with medications, and a patient’s crisis of self is not very likely to come up in a 15-minute session with a psychopharmacologist.
多年来，我曾跟不少临床医生探讨，为什么在治疗病人的过程中他们极少谈及病人丢失的自我，而精神类疾病恰恰会损害病人的自我意识。结果我发现，精神病学看来已经脱离了探讨自我的治疗模式。在许多精神病医生看来，精神障碍是需要药物治疗的疾病，而在精神病药理学家问诊的这15分钟里，不太可能触及到病人遭遇的自我危机。
Philip Yanos, an associate professor of psychology at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, in New York, studies the ways that a sense of self is affected by mental illness. He told me that when his work was under grant review, it was initially met with skepticism. Some thought that what he calls “illness identity,” which manifests in some patients as overidentifying with their mental disorder, was a topic of lesser importance in the face of other serious symptoms that patients experience, like cognitive impairment and thoughts of suicide.
纽约约翰·杰伊刑事司法学院(John Jay College of Criminal Justice)的副教授菲利浦·雅诺斯(Philip Yanos)正在研究自我意识是如何被精神疾病影响的。他告诉我，他的研究成果在接受评审时，起先遭到了质疑。他们认为他所说的“病了的自我身份”——在一些病人身上，体现为他们对自己所患的精神障碍的过度认同——相比令病人备受折磨的其他严重症状，比如认知障碍和自杀意识，是个相对不那么重要的问题。
Yanos told me that reshaping your identity from “patient” to “person” takes time. For me, going from patient to person wasn’t so arduous. Once I understood I was not vermicelli, part of my personhood was restored. But reconstructing my self took longer.
雅诺斯告诉我，将自我身份从“病人”转型为“人”，这需要时间。对我来说，从病人变为人倒并不那么费劲。一旦我明白自己并不是一根意大利细面条，我的部分人性就得以修复了。但重建自我花费的时间更长。
One reason that may have been the case, as Amy Barnhorst, a psychiatrist at the University of California, Davis, told me, is the unique set of challenges facing people who have experienced mania and hypomania. “The parts of the selves that may come out” in mania and hypomania, which can be horrifying, “are very real,” she said, making it difficult for patients “to reconcile those behaviors with their self as they have come to know it.” In mania and hypomania, the sick self has no accountability; the improved self has a lot of explaining, and often apologizing, to do.
加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)的精神病学家艾米·巴恩豪斯特(Amy Barnhorst)对我说，经历过狂躁或轻躁发作的病人可能要面对特殊的挑战。她说，在狂躁和轻躁发作时，“病人表现出的部分自我是十分真实的，”而这当然会很吓人，病人因此难以“在恢复清醒后，将这类行为与自我达成一致。”在狂躁和轻躁发作时，病态的自我并不承担责任；所以那个不断痊愈的自我需要费尽气力去辩解，有时则需要去道歉。
For many people with mental disorders, the transformation of the self is one of the most disturbing things about being ill. And their despair is heightened when doctors don’t engage with the issue, don’t ask about what parts of the self have vanished and don’t help figure out strategies to deal with that loss.
对于很多患精神障碍的人，自我的转型是病后最让人困惑的事情之一。而当医生们对这个话题漠不关心，不向病人问及他们丧失了哪部分的自我，也不去帮助他们寻找丧失自我的对策时，他们心头的绝望就会加剧。
Some in the mental-health field are beginning to recognize this need. Janina Fisher, a psychologist and the assistant director of the Sensorimotor Psychotherapy Institute in Broomfield, Colo., told me that there has been a “sea change” in the role the self plays in the therapeutic dialogue since the decades when I was sick. New therapies and treatment philosophies, founded mostly by clinical psychologists and other practitioners who are not medical doctors, recognize the role of the self in people with mental illness. Patients tell her, “I just want to be that person I used to be.” Fisher encourages her patients to recognize that their mental trauma is a part of their life, but shouldn’t dominate it.
心理健康界的一些专家开始逐渐认识到了这方面的需求。心理学家雅妮娜·费舍尔(Janina Fisher)是科罗拉多州布鲁姆菲尔德市美国知觉传动心理治疗学院(Sensorimotor Psychotherapy Institute)的助理主任，她对我说，从我发病的那个时期开始，心理治疗体系中对自我的角色的认识，出现了“重大转变”。由临床心理学家和其他并非医生的从业者创立的新疗法和新的治疗理念，开始认识到心理疾病病人的自我所扮演的角色。费舍尔说，病人告诉她，“我只想成为过去的那个自己。”她鼓励自己的病人要认识到，精神创伤是生活的一部分，但不应该被这部分主宰。
In my own experience with Scheftner, whom I began seeing after my father’s doctor moved away, we talk about the self but only when I bring it up. That’s why I have enjoyed helping to run a support group for people with mental disorders, something I’ve been doing for the last three years. There are usually 8 of us, sometimes 12. We sit in the basement of a local library every Wednesday afternoon. Though we know one another’s innermost thoughts, we are intimate strangers, not friends. Like A.A. and other self-help groups, we’re peer-led: run by and for people with mental disorders. We talk one by one about the past week — small achievements, setbacks, doctor appointments, family conflicts. While the self is not always an explicit topic, the loss of self — or for those doing better, the reconstruction of the self — is a hovering presence in the group.
在我爸爸的医生搬走后，我转而去看谢夫特纳医生，在看诊过程中，我们会谈及自我，但只在我主动提及的时候才会去谈。也因为这个，从三年前，我开始很高兴地参与主持一家专为精神障碍患者主办的支持小组。通常小组成员是八个人，有时会有12个。我们每周三下午，会来到当地图书馆的地下室里。我们深知其他所有人最隐密的想法，但大家并不是朋友，而是亲密的陌生人。跟匿名戒酒协会(Alcoholics Anonymous)和其他自助小组一样，我们采取的是同伴领导方式：领头人和参与者都是精神障碍患者。我们会轮流介绍过去一周发生的事情——各种微妙的进步，挫败，看医生时的情形，与家人发生的矛盾。在小组会谈中，自我并不总是明确的主题，但失去的自我——或者对那些逐渐好转的病人来说，是自我的重建——始终挥之不去。
One day, not long ago, a middle-aged man came to our group. He told us that he spent the past year attending different grief groups, but none of them were right. “Why not?” someone asked. The man said: “Because everyone there was grieving over the loss of another person. I was grieving for myself. For who I used to be before I got sick and who I am now.”
在前不久，有一天，一个中年男人加入了我们的小组。他说，在过去这一年里，他参加了几个不同的追思小组，但全都不合适。“为什么呢？”有人问他。他回答说：“因为在那里，每个人都在为失去他人而悲痛。只有我是在痛惜丢失的自己，为我得病前的样子，为我现在的样子。”
During the 20-odd years since my hospitalizations, many parts of my old self have been straggling home. But not everything made the return trip. While I no longer jump from moving cars on the way to parties, I still find social events uncomfortable. And, although I don’t have to battle to stay awake during the day, I still don’t have full days — I’m only functional mornings to midafternoons. I haven’t been able to return to teaching. How many employers would welcome a request for a cot, a soft pillow and half the day off?
自从我出入精神病区到现在，已有20多年了，原本的自我里，有很多部分已经渐渐回归。但并不是所有一切都顺利走上归途。我不会再在去派对的路上跳车而逃了，但社交场合仍然让我感到不自在。此外，尽管在白天，我不必费尽心力，只为让自己不要打瞌睡，但我还是没法整天保持清醒——从清晨到下午三点钟的这段时间，是我唯一正常的时间。我始终没能重返讲台。有多少东家愿意给申请人一张小床、一只松软的枕头，外加半天休息呢？
One morning, about five years ago, my husband and I were talking on the family-room sofa. I was still wearing my pajamas and had wool hiking socks on. As he rubbed my feet, he told me he was leaving. It was, at once, a scene of tenderness and savagery. A little later, he threw some clothes into a suitcase and moved out. But my self — devastated, grieving, angry — remained intact.
约摸是五年前，有天早上，我和丈夫坐在客厅的沙发上聊天。我还披着睡衣，穿着羊毛远足袜。他抚摸着我的双脚，告诉我他要离开了。这一幕既痛楚又残忍。过了一会儿，他将几件衣服扔进行李箱，搬了出去。但我的自我仍然完整，虽然它痛苦、悲伤而又愤怒。
Today, my mind is nimble. Creative writing has crept back into my life. I’ve made a couple of close friends in Chicago. My greatest pleasure is still my children — they’re starting careers, marrying, on the brinks of their lives. I’m looking forward to grandchildren, to singing the 1950s favorite “Life Is but a Dream” while spinning those babies under the stars of a falling night on a Florida beach. This June, I’m turning 60. I’m having a small party to celebrate my ingathering of selves. My old self was first to R.S.V.P.
现在，我的思维很敏捷。创意写作重新慢慢回到我的生活里。我在芝加哥交了三两知己。我最大的赏心乐事仍是孩子们——他们已经开始工作、结婚，经营自己的生活。我在期待着抱孙子，希望有朝一日，能在佛罗里达的海滩边，伴着满天繁星轻轻摇着我的小孙子们。今年六月，我就要满60岁了。我会办个小型派对，为重获的自我而欢庆。收到邀请信后，第一个回复确认的，是我原本的自我。