Lyons, Colo.
科罗拉多，莱昂斯
ODY died peacefully last year, Nov. 29. He was 14 and a half. Truth be told, Ody didn’t just die. I killed him. I paid a vet to come to my house and inject a chemical solution into a vein in Ody’s back leg.
去年11月29日，奥迪(Ody)平静地去世了，死时14岁半。事实上，不是奥迪死了，是我杀了他。我花钱请了兽医到家里，在奥迪后腿的一条血管里注射了一剂化学溶液。
People ask me how I knew it was time. There was no watershed, but a slow accumulation of miseries. Ody had been in serious decline for six months. Partial paralysis of his laryngeal muscles made it hard for him to breathe, and he would begin to pant at the slightest exertion. His once deep tenor bark had transformed into a raspy Darth Vader croak. The signals from his addled brain often failed to reach his body, so when I walked him he left a Hansel and Gretel trail of pee and poop behind him. His muscles atrophied, and his walk was crab-like and unsteady. He grew increasingly uninterested in food and people, his two great passions. Worst of all, he began falling more and more frequently and was unable to get up by himself.
人们问我怎么知道他的时辰到了。这是一个痛苦缓慢累积的过程，当中并没有一个明显的界限。六个月的时间里，奥迪的情况一直在严重恶化。喉部肌肉部分瘫痪，使他呼吸困难，即使是最轻微的运动也会使他气喘吁吁。他曾经洪亮的嗓音变得像达思·韦德(Darth Vader)一般刺耳沙哑。他昏沉大脑里发出的信号经常不能达到身体，所以当我领他出去散步时，他在身后留下一串串尿和粪便，就像韩赛尔和格蕾特(Hansel and Gretel)在路上做的记号一样。他的肌肉萎缩，走起路来像螃蟹，而且摇摇晃晃。渐渐地，他对食物和人这两个最大的爱好都失去了兴趣。最糟糕的是，他开始越来越频繁地跌倒，而且不能自己站起来。
Toward the end, I would wake in the night to scuffling sounds. I’d search the house and find Ody trapped behind the piano or tangled up in the exercise equipment. It was on the fourth such night that my husband said: “It’s time. We can’t do this to Ody anymore.”
到最后，夜里我会被扒拉的声音惊醒。我会在房子里到处寻找，然后就会发现奥迪被困在钢琴后面，或者和运动器材缠在了一起。在出现这种情况的第四个晚上，我丈夫说：“是时候了。我们不能再让奥迪这样了。”
Euthanasia is deeply entrenched in the culture of pet keeping in America, and for the vast majority of companion animals, death will be orchestrated by a human caretaker, the time and date chosen in advance and not, as it were, decided by “nature” or some higher power. Yet despite its ubiquity, we rarely question its moral appropriateness.
在美国的宠物文化当中，安乐死根深蒂固，对绝大多数动物伴侣来说，死亡是由人类饲养者安排的事情，时间和日期都事先选好，不再像从前那样由“自然”或者某个更高权威决定。然而，即使安乐死如此普遍，我们还是绝少审视它在道德上的合理性。
Euthanasia is typically thought of as a choice between suffering and death — and, indeed, it can offer relief from unyielding pain. But death is too often prescribed as a de facto treatment for suffering when much less aggressive possibilities exist. We can ease our animals into the valley of death, rather than abruptly shoving them off the cliff.
通常来说，安乐死被认为是一个痛苦和死亡之间的抉择，而且的确，它可以终结缠绕不去的疼痛。然而，太过经常的情况是，明明有一些温和得多的手段，人们还是把安乐死当成了终结痛苦的现成方法。我们可以慢慢地把动物引入死亡的山谷，而不是突然把它们从悬崖上推下去。
Pain is the barometer most often used to assess whether an animal should be euthanized, and one of the most important improvements we can make in caring for our pets is to provide them with better palliative care. Untreated or undertreated pain is epidemic among companion animals. Kevin Stafford, an authority on veterinary ethics, estimates that 10 million dogs in the United States suffer from osteoarthritis but that only a small fraction get treatment. Of those dogs that do, he says, many are treated ineffectually or are given too little pain medicine for too short a time. The only treatment many arthritic dogs receive is euthanasia.
痛苦是判断一个动物是否应该被安乐死的最常用标准，而我们改进宠物关爱的一个最重要措施是，为他们提供更能减少痛苦的护理。痛苦未得治疗或者治疗不够的情况，在动物伴侣中非常普遍。兽医道德方面的权威凯文·斯坦福(Kevin Stafford)估计，美国有1千万只狗患有关节炎，其中只有一小部分得到了治疗。他称，在这些得到治疗的狗当中，很多都只得到了无效的治疗，要么就是得到的止痛药太少，用药时间也太短。很多患关节炎的狗得到的唯一治疗就是安乐死。
Effective and affordable pain treatments for animals are available; many human pain drugs were developed using animals. We can also lessen the pain for ailing pets with structural alterations to our homes, like ramps.
有效且不超出支付能力的动物治疗方法是存在的；很多人类止痛药都是通过动物试验研发出来的。我们还可以给家里做些结构性调整，比如铺设斜坡，以此减少生病宠物的痛苦。
Why, then, are so many animals in pain? The reasons are largely cultural. Some veterinarians, particularly older ones, have been taught that animals don’t feel pain (the same convenient skepticism under which the animal research juggernaut labors). Few vets specialize in palliative care, and treating pain effectively takes a tenacity that harried and underpaid vets may find difficult to muster on a daily basis. And pet owners can be inattentive, even lazy.
那么，为什么有这么多动物承受痛苦呢？很大一部分原因是文化上的。有一些兽医，尤其是年纪大的兽医，一直被教导动物感觉不到疼痛（强大的动物研究组织就是依据这种便利的怀疑论开展工作的）。很少有兽医精通缓解疼痛的治疗，此外，有效治疗疼痛需要坚持不懈的努力，那些薪水较低的毛躁兽医或许认为每天这么做太困难。宠物主人则可能会染上马虎乃至懒惰的毛病。
To be sure, animal pain can be tricky to recognize and treat. Cats and rabbits are notorious for their so-called stoicism, but dogs, too, may not display pain in ways we easily see. As with humans, responses to pain vary. Effective pain management often requires trial and error with various types of drugs, as well as the use of non-drug therapies like weight management, controlled exercise, physical therapy, massage, acupuncture and nutritional supplements.
的确，动物的痛苦很难察觉和治疗。大家都知道，猫和兔子拥有所谓的“坚忍”性格，不过，狗也是一样，可能不会以我们易于察觉的方式来表露痛苦。就像人类一样，它们对痛苦的反应各不相同。有效治疗痛苦通常需要尝试各种各样的药物，辅以非药物治疗方式，比如控制体重、有节制的锻炼、理疗、按摩、针灸以及补充营养。
Pain must be understood broadly, as it is in human medicine, to include psychological suffering. Ody’s physical ailments were mostly caused by neurological decline. The fact that he wasn’t obviously in physical pain made the decision to euthanize a difficult one, because I was left to make an imperfect judgment about his overall well-being.
跟人类医学的痛苦定义一样，动物的痛苦也必须被宽泛地理解为包括精神上的痛苦。奥迪身体上的痛苦大多数是由神经衰退引发的。他在身体上并没有明显表现出疼痛，这让我在决定对他施行安乐死时变得十分困难，因为我只能对他的整体生活质量做出一个不完整的判断。
Quality-of-life assessments have long been used within human end-of-life care, and similar tools for assessing our animals are increasingly available, well-refined and imminently useful. One nice example is the veterinarian Alice Villalobos’s “Pawspice” program, which directs pet owners to assess their pet on a 1-to-10 scale on seven measures — hurt, hunger, hydration, hygiene, happiness, mobility and “more good days than bad” — with the lowest number being the worst. During Ody’s final decline, I would force myself to think through this assessment. It was hard to be honest. Ody’s score just kept getting lower. But the exercise at least offered a measure of objectivity.
长期以来，对生活质量的评估一直被用在人类生命末期的护理中，类似的评估宠物的工具也正在逐渐增多，而且十分精细、十分现成。一个很好的例子便是兽医爱丽丝·比利亚洛沃斯(Alice Villalobos)的护理项目 “Pawspice”，这个项目引导宠物主人对宠物进行七项十分制评估，包括受伤、饥饿、水份、卫生、快乐、运动能力以及“好日子多于坏日子”，得分越少情况越糟糕。在奥迪最后恶化的过程中，我迫使自己去考虑这种评估。坦诚面对并不容易。奥迪的得分一直在减少，但这个评测至少提供了一个客观的评估手段。
One of the most troublesome moral challenges involves money. We could say that money shouldn’t matter when an animal’s life is in the balance, but this is neither realistic nor fair to pet owners. We might feel a justified repugnance toward the financially well-positioned pet owner who refuses to cough up the money for an antibiotic or inexpensive pain medicine. But the question of money can be gut-wrenching, as when prolonged care for an ill animal is balanced against college education for a child. Luckily, basic palliative care is not particularly expensive, and the emerging field of animal hospice will allow more owners to give respite to their dying animals without going broke.
最让人烦恼的道德问题之一与金钱有关。我们会说，在动物性命攸关时，不应该在意金钱，但这既不现实，对宠物主人来说也不公平。如果经济状况良好的宠物主人不舍得花钱为宠物购买抗生素或者是便宜的止痛药，我们或许有理由对他们感到厌恶。但是，如果要权衡把钱用来供孩子上大学，还是用来长期照料生病的宠物，金钱问题上的抉择就会变得很痛苦。幸运的是，基本的临终关怀并不是特别昂贵，动物护理业的逐渐兴起也将使更多的宠物主人有能力暂时缓解垂危宠物的痛苦，不用因此面临破产的处境。
AT animal hospice, the therapeutic agenda is not abandoned, but its goals shift, sometimes subtly, from cure to compassionate care and comfort. We put aside the desire to fix — the stem-cell treatments, joint replacements, X-rays and biopsies, and the other marvels of modern veterinary medicine — and focus instead on managing pain and allowing death to unfold in its own time. When things get really ugly, we retain the option — still largely unavailable for our human loved ones — of a gentle release.
动物护理所不会放弃治疗方案，治疗的目标却有着时或非常细微的差别，从治愈到提供充满同情的护理和安慰，如此等等。我们把治愈的愿望——涉及的方法包括干细胞治疗、关节替换、X光以及活体组织检查，还有其他一些现代兽医学中的高超手段——放在一边，先关注一下如何控制疼痛，让死亡慢慢到来。当情况变得极其糟糕的时候，我们依然拥有这样一个轻柔解脱的选项。对我们的人类挚爱来说，这个选项在很大程度上还不适用。
Unfortunately, the love we feel for our animals can inure us to their suffering. We may wait for our animal to “tell us she is ready,” but our love can make it hard to hear her cries. I couldn’t bear the thought of losing Ody, so I sugarcoated his suffering. I focused on caregiving, feeling vindicated when he showed his typical interest in hot dogs and processed cheese. When, prodded by my husband, I finally called the euthanasia vet, I asked her to come the following day. I need one more day with Ody, to say goodbye, I thought. After realizing that this extra day was for me, not for Ody, I called back, and when I was able to control my voice, I asked her to come as soon as she could.
不幸的是，我们对宠物的爱可能会让我们习惯它们的痛苦。我们可能会等着宠物自己“告诉我们它已经准备好了，”但我们的爱却让我们很难听到它们的呼声。失去奥迪的念头让我难以忍受，所以我粉饰他的痛苦。我只关注于给他照顾，当他对热狗和加工过的奶酪表示出惯常的兴趣时，我觉得自己是对的。当我在丈夫的催促下最终决定给兽医打电话的时候，我还告诉她第二天再来。当时我想，我需要和奥迪多待一天，好跟他告个别。意识到这多余的一天只是为了我自己而不是奥迪之后，我又给兽医打了电话。等我能够控制自己的声音时，我让她尽快过来。
When the vet arrived at our house that night to perform the procedure, Ody was crouched under the piano, peering out at the family and friends gathered to say farewell. Normally he was drawn to people, but not this night. I watched him turn and stumble off. I followed him onto the flagstone patio, where he stood still, his back legs with their awkward bent. It was a bitterly cold night. I sat next to him and wrapped my arms around his chest and buried my face in the soft red fur of his neck. I didn’t want this moment to end. A few minutes later, my husband opened the door and called, “The vet’s ready.” I sat for another long moment with Ody and then got up and moved toward the door, beckoning him after me. He stood still, looking into the dark. I got behind him and gently touched his back, urging him on.
兽医当晚就来我家给奥迪做安乐死，奥迪蜷在钢琴下面，看着家人和朋友聚在一起跟他告别。正常情况下，他会跟人亲近，但这天晚上却没有。我看着他转过身，跌跌撞撞地走开了。我跟着他走进铺着石板的庭院，他静静地站在那里，两条后腿很别扭地弯着。那天夜里十分寒冷。我挨着他坐下，胳膊绕着他的胸脯，脸埋在他脖子上的红色软毛当中。我希望这个时刻永远继续下去。几分钟后，我丈夫打开门说，“兽医准备好了。”我和奥迪又坐了好一会儿，然后起身进门，叫他跟着我。他静静地站着，注视着黑暗的夜。我走到他背后，轻轻地抚摸他的脊背，催促他进屋。