There is much talk right now about America teaming up with Iran to push back the coalition of Sunni militias that has taken over Mosul and other Sunni towns in western Iraq and Syria. For now, I’d say stay out of this fight — not because it’s the best option, but because it’s the least bad.
美国与伊朗联手击退逊尼派民兵联盟的想法，眼下正受到热议，这股民兵力量已经攻占了摩苏尔以及叙利亚和伊拉克西部一些逊尼派城市。就目前的情况，我的看法是别卷进这场战斗——不是因为这是最好的选择，而是因为这是最不糟糕的选择。
After all, what is the context in which we’d be intervening? Iraq and Syria are twins: multiethnic and multisectarian societies that have been governed, like other Arab states, from the top-down. First, it was by soft-fisted Ottomans who ruled through local notables in a decentralized fashion, then by iron-fisted British and French colonial powers and later by iron-fisted nationalist kings and dictators.
说到底，我们要干预的事情，有怎样的背景？伊拉克和叙利亚是一对难兄难弟：多民族、多宗派社会，实施和其他阿拉伯国家一样的自上而下式管理。一开始是奥斯曼的绥靖政权，通过当地士绅来实现去中心化的统治，然后是英国和法国殖民者的铁腕，再之后是民族主义的君王和独裁者的铁腕。
Today, the Ottomans are gone, the British and French are gone and now many of the kings and dictators are gone. We removed Iraq’s dictator; NATO and tribal rebels removed Libya’s; the people of Tunisia, Egypt and Yemen got rid of theirs; and some people in Syria have tried to topple theirs. Each country is now faced with the challenge of trying to govern itself horizontally by having the different sects, parties and tribes agree on social contracts for how to live together as equal citizens who rotate power.
如今，奥斯曼人不在了，英国人、法国人不在了，许多的君王和独裁者也不在了。我们除掉了伊拉克独裁者；北约(NATO)和部族反对派除掉了利比亚的；突尼斯、埃及和也门人民除掉了他们各自的；叙利亚的一些人则在努力推翻他们的独裁者。所有国家都面临这个挑战：要在一个水平面上治理自己的国家，让各宗派、政党和部族形成一个有共识的社会契约，大家平等地生活在一起，让权力实现轮转。
Tunisia and Kurdistan have done the best at this transition. Egyptians tried and found the insecurity so unbearable that they brought back the army’s iron fist. Libya has collapsed into intertribal conflict. Yemen struggles with a wobbly tribal balance. In Syria, the Shiite/Alawite minority, plus the Christians and some Sunnis, seem to prefer the tyranny of Bashar al-Assad to the anarchy of the Islamist-dominated rebels; the Syrian Kurds have carved out their own enclave, so the country is now a checkerboard.
在这个转型中，突尼斯和库尔德斯坦表现最好。埃及尝试了，但惶恐不安的日子令他们不堪忍受，最终换回军队的铁腕。利比亚已经陷入部族冲突的泥沼。也门奋力维持着脆弱的部族平衡。而在叙利亚，占少数的什叶派和阿拉维派，以及基督徒和部分逊尼派人士，似乎宁可要巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的暴政，也不要让伊斯兰极端势力主导的反对派把国家带向无政府状态；叙利亚库尔德人开辟了自己的一片地盘，因此这个国家现在成了一个跳棋棋盘。
In Iraq, the Shiite prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki — who had the best chance, the most oil money and the most help from the U.S. in writing a social contract for how to govern Iraq horizontally — chose instead, from the moment the Americans left, to empower Iraqi Shiites and disempower Iraqi Sunnis. It’s no surprise that Iraqi Sunnis decided to grab their own sectarian chunk of the country.
在伊拉克，要想书写一份社会契约来实现对国家的水平治理，什叶派总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)曾拥有最理想的机会，他手中掌握的石油资本最多，也得到了美国最有力的支持。但美国人一走，他就剥夺了伊拉克逊尼派的权力，赋权给伊拉克什叶派。现在，伊拉克逊尼派决心要在这个国家抢占自己的宗派地盘，这并不让人感到意外。
So today, it seems, a unified Iraq and a unified Syria can no longer be governed vertically or horizontally. The leaders no longer have the power to extend their iron fists to every border, and the people no longer have the trust to extend their hands to one another. It would appear that the only way they can remain united is if an international force comes in, evicts the dictators, uproots the extremists and builds consensual politics from the ground up — a generational project for which there are no volunteers. 
所以，目前看来，一个统一的伊拉克和一个统一的叙利亚，无论用垂直还是水平的方式都已经无法治理。领导人的铁腕已经无法覆盖到国家的每一个角落，人民也不再信任彼此，不会主动寻求对话。要让他们保持统一，似乎唯有国际力量介入，把独裁者赶下台，清除极端主义，从头开始建立各方都认可的政治——这是整整一代人的工程，而且找不到志愿者。
What to do? It was not wrong to believe post-9/11 that unless this region produced decent self-government it would continue to fail its own people and deny them the ability to realize their full potential, which is why the Arab Spring happened, and that its pathologies would also continue to spew out the occasional maniac, like Osama bin Laden, who could threaten us.
怎么办？在后9·11的时代，我们有理由相信，除非该地区能产生像样的自主政府，否则人民会一次又一次地失望，他们的潜能永远得不到彻底释放，这就是为什么会有阿拉伯之春，这片多事之地仍然时不时会孕育出奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)这样的狂人，对我们构成威胁。
But the necessary turned out to be impossible: We didn’t know what we were doing. The post-Saddam generation of Iraqi leaders turned out to be like abused children who went on to be abusive parents. The Iranians constantly encouraged Shiite supremacy and frustrated our efforts to build pluralism. Mosques and charities in Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Kuwait and Qatar continued to fund preachers and fighters who promoted the worst Sunni extremism. And thousands of Muslim men marched to Syria and Iraq to fight for jihadism, but none marched there to fight for pluralism.
但这个必要条件似乎是不可企及的：我们不知道自己在干什么。后萨达姆时代的伊拉克领导人，仿佛是一些曾经被虐待的孩子，自己成为父母后也开始虐待孩子。伊朗人一直在鼓动建立什叶派霸权，令我们营造多元化的努力屡屡受挫。沙特阿拉伯、土耳其、科威特和卡塔尔的清真寺和慈善机构仍然在资助传道者和武装分子，让他们去宣传最糟糕的逊尼派极端主义。数以千计的穆斯林男人前往叙利亚和伊拉克进行圣战，没人去那里为多元化而战。
I could say that before President Obama drops even an empty Coke can from a U.S. fighter jet on the Sunni militias in Iraq we need to insist that Maliki resign and a national unity cabinet be created that is made up of inclusive Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish leaders. I could say that that is the necessary condition for reunification of Iraq. And I could say that it is absolutely not in our interest or the world’s to see Iraq break apart and one segment be ruled by murderous Sunni militias.
我可以说，在奥巴马对逊尼派民兵采取行动前，哪怕从美军战机上扔一个可乐罐下去，我们也需要坚持先让马利基辞职，建立一个全国性的联合内阁，其中要包括愿意接纳其他派别的什叶派、逊尼派和库尔德领导人。我可以说，这是伊拉克恢复统一的必要条件。我可以说，要是伊拉克分裂了，杀人成性的逊尼派民兵掌握了其中一块地盘，无论对我们还是全世界都不是好事。
But I have to say this: It feels both too late and too early to stop the disintegration — too late because whatever trust there was between communities is gone, and Maliki is not trying to rebuild it, and too early because it looks as if Iraqis are going to have to live apart, and see how crazy and impoverishing that is, before the different sects can coexist peacefully.
但我必须说的是：我感觉现在这时候，要阻止分裂，既太晚又太早——说太晚是因为，不管社群之间原来有着怎样的信任，现在都已不复存在，马利基是不会去重建它的；说太早是因为，看起来伊拉克必须要分开一下，看看那将带来怎样疯狂而贫困的局面，然后各派才有可能和平共处。
In the meantime, there is no denying that terrorism could be exported our way from Iraq’s new, radicalized “Sunnistan.” But we have a National Security Agency, C.I.A. and drones to deal with that now ever-present threat.
与此同时，不可否认的是，从伊拉克这块新辟的、激进的“逊尼斯坦”上滋生的恐怖主义，可能会波及到我们身上。但是我们有国家安全局(National Security Agency)、中央情报局(CIA)，有无人机，可以应对这个如今无时不在的威胁。