It’s heartening to see a growing discussion of the lack of attention that’s been paid in recent days to the latest atrocities committed in Nigeria by what The Times recently described and mapped as “Boko Haram, the other Islamic State.”
看到关于近日对新近在尼日利亚犯下的暴行缺乏关注的讨论越来越多，非常振奋人心。暴行是近期被时报(The Times)描绘为“博科圣地(Boko Haram)，另一个伊斯兰国”的组织所为。
Incidents in recent days have included deadly attacks involving young girls strapped with bombs. On a grander scale, there has been a massacre in the long-suffering town of Baga, on Lake Chad’s shore, although initial reports of more than 2,000 slaughtered by hundreds of Boko Haram militants are being challenged by the Nigerian military, which says the toll is more like 150. The truth will out, of course, as was the case in a military assault on the town in 2013. (Satellite imagery helped clarify what happened, as did Human Rights Watch.)
近日的事件包括身绑炸弹的小女孩参与的致命袭击。再往大看，长久以来饱受摧残的乍得湖(Lake Chad)畔的巴加镇(Baga)发生了一起大屠杀，尽管最初的数百博科圣地武装分子屠杀了逾2000人的消息遭到了尼日利亚军方质疑——其称死亡人数约为150人。真相当然会浮出水面的，就像2013年针对该镇的一次军事袭击发生后一样。（卫星图像和人权观察[Human Rights Watch]协助明确了当时发生了什么。）
In the meantime, Max Fisher at Vox has posted a helpful overview, noting that “the story of the Baga massacre is a story of Boko Haram’s depravity but also of the Nigerian military’s abject failure.”
与此同时，新闻网站Vox的马克斯·费希尔(Max Fisher)发布了一个很有帮助的总结，指出“巴加大屠杀的故事是一个博科圣地道德沦丧的故事，但也是一个尼日利亚军方惨败的故事”。
It would be easy to miss the Nigerian developments behind the saturation coverage of the murderous attacks on the Charlie Hebdo office and other targets in France, and the subsequent outpouring of support for the victims.
在关于针对《查理周报》办公室和其他法国目标的凶残袭击及其后对死难者的支持之声的铺天盖地的报道的掩盖之下，错过尼日利亚事件的进展是很容易的。
Why did the world ignore Boko Haram’s Baga attacks? http://t.co/w5krsFHATW #IamNigeria We intervene all over but not in Nigeria. Why not?
为什么世界视博科圣地的巴加袭击而不见？http://t.co/w5krsFHATW #我是尼日利亚 我们到处干预，却没有干预尼日利亚。为什么？
— Ann Wilson-Rawi (@_hannnnah_) 12 Jan 15
——安·威尔逊-拉维(Ann Wilson-Rawi) (@_hannnnah) 2015年1月12日。
African journalists, among others, are trying to widen the focus. On the South African website Daily Maverick, Simon Allison wrote a tough piece aptly titled, “I am Charlie, but I am Baga too: On Nigeria’s forgotten massacre.”
非洲记者们，和其他一些记者，一直在努力扩大关注点。西蒙·埃里森(Simon Allison)在南非网站《独行者日报》(Daily Maverick)上写了一篇措辞严厉的文章，该文章贴切地以“我是查理，但我也是巴加：关于尼日利亚被遗忘的大屠杀”为题。
But it’s also true that a simple comparison of coverage can miss underlying conditions that make terrorism so perversely normal in one place and exceptional elsewhere, as Matt Schiavenza noted on The Atlantic website yesterday: 
但是，简单的对报道进行的比较确实也不能体现出使恐怖主义在一处成为变态的常态、却在其他地方反常的深层条件，如马特·思琪文扎(Matt Schiavenza)昨日在《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)网站上指出的那样：
The main difference between France and Nigeria isn’t that the public and the media care about one and not the other. It is, rather, that one country has an effective government and the other does not. The French may not be too fond of President Francois Hollande—his approval ratings last November had plunged to 12 percent—but he responded to his country’s twin terror attacks with decisiveness. Not so Nigeria’s Goodluck Jonathan. Since assuming the presidency in 2010, Jonathan has done little to contain Boko Haram. The group emerged in 2002 and has consolidated control over an area larger than West Virginia. And it’s gaining ground. Perversely, the seemingly routine nature of Nigeria’s violence may have diminished the perception of its newsworthiness.
法国和尼日利亚的主要区别不在于公众和媒体在意其中一个，而不在意另一个。其区别在于一个国家有一个有效的政府，而另一个国家没有。法国人可能不那么喜欢弗朗索瓦·奥朗德总统(President Francois Hollande)——他的支持率去年11月降至了12%——但是，他用魄力应对了针对他的国家的两起恐怖袭击。尼日利亚的古德勒克·乔纳森(Goodluck Jonathan)可不是如此。自2010年开始其总统任期起，乔纳森没有采取过什么措施控制博科圣地。该组织2002年出现，并在一片比西弗吉尼亚州面积还大的区域内巩固了控制权。它仍在扩张。变态的是，尼日利亚暴力活动看起来已成常态化的性质或削弱了其新闻价值。