WHEN Woody Allen received a Golden Globe award for lifetime achievement a few weeks ago, there was a lively debate about whether it was appropriate to honor a man who is an artistic giant but also was accused years ago of child molestation.
当伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)数周前获得金球奖(Golden Globe)终身成就奖时，发生了一场有关给此人颁奖是否合适的激烈辩论，因为他既是艺术巨匠，又是一名在多年前被控性侵儿童的男人。
Allen’s defenders correctly note that he denies the allegations, has never been convicted and should be presumed innocent. People weighed in on all sides, but one person who hasn’t been heard out is Dylan Farrow, 28, the writer and artist whom Allen was accused of molesting.
艾伦的捍卫者正确地指出，他否认了所有指控，从未被定罪，因此理应被推定为无罪。人们从各个方面加以讨论，然而，有一个人的意见却没有得到细心地倾听，那就是28岁的作家兼艺术家迪兰·法罗(Dylan Farrow)，也就是艾伦被控侵犯的人。
Dylan, Allen’s adopted daughter who is now married and living in Florida under a different name, tells me that she has been traumatized for more than two decades by what took place; last year, she was belatedly diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. She says that when she heard of the Golden Globe award being given to Allen she curled up in a ball on her bed, crying hysterically.
迪兰·法罗是艾伦的养女，现在已婚，她以另一个名字生活在佛罗里达州，她对我说，往事带来的创伤折磨了她整整20多年；去年，她最终被诊断患上了创伤后应激障碍症。她说，当听说金球奖被颁给艾伦时，她在床上蜷成一团，歇斯底里地大哭起来。
With everyone else commenting, she decided to weigh in as well. (Full disclosure: I am a friend of her mother, Mia, and brother Ronan, and that’s how Dylan got in touch with me.) She has written a letter that I’m posting in full on my blog, nytimes.com/ontheground. I reached out to Allen several days ago, and he declined to comment on the record.
所有人都在发表意见，于是她决定也参与讨论。（全面披露：我是她母亲米亚[Mia]和弟弟罗南[Ronan]的朋友，正是通过这层关系法罗和我取得了联系。）她写了一封信，我把信的全文贴在了我的博客nytimes.com/ontheground上。几年以前，我曾联系上艾伦，但他拒绝公开发表评论。
Dylan writes:
迪兰写道：
That he got away with what he did to me haunted me as I grew up. I was stricken with guilt that I had allowed him to be near other little girls. I was terrified of being touched by men. I developed an eating disorder. I began cutting myself.
随着我一天天长大，他没有因为对我的所作所为而受到任何惩罚，这样的现实时刻折磨着我。我深感愧疚，因为我让他有机会接近了别的小女孩。我对男人的触摸感到恐惧。我患上了进食障碍。我开始割伤自己。
That torment was made worse by Hollywood. All but a precious few (my heroes) turned a blind eye. Most found it easier to accept the ambiguity, to say, “who can say what happened,” to pretend that nothing was wrong. Actors praised him at awards shows. Networks put him on TV. Critics put him in magazines. Each time I saw my abuser’s face — on a poster, on a T-shirt, on television — I could only hide my panic until I found a place to be alone and fall apart.
而好莱坞加深了我所受的煎熬。除了弥足珍贵的几个人（他们是我的英雄），几乎所有人都对我的遭遇视而不见。大多数人发现，接受模棱两可的态度，用一句“谁知道发生了什么”来假装一切正常会更加容易。演员们在颁奖典礼上赞美他。各家电视台让他在荧屏上露面。评论员在杂志里谈论他。每次我看到这位施虐者的脸——不管是在海报上、T恤上，还是在电视上——我都只能藏起我的恐慌，直到我找到某个能够独自一人陷入崩溃的地方。
A firestorm erupted in 1992 over allegations described as “inappropriate touching” — in fact, what Dylan recounts is far worse, a sexual assault. She was 7 years old.
1992年，被描述为“不恰当触碰”的指控引发了一场激烈的讨论，实际上，迪兰的详细描述要比这严重得多，她说她遭到了性侵。当时她7岁。
There were charges and countercharges. A panel of psychiatrists sided with Allen, a judge more with Dylan and her mother. A Connecticut prosecutor said that there was enough evidence for a criminal case against Allen but that he was dropping criminal proceedings to spare Dylan.
既有指控，就有反指控。精神病专家小组站在艾伦一边，而法官则更支持迪兰和她的母亲。康涅狄格州的一位检察官说，有足够的证据对艾伦提出刑事诉讼，不过为了迪兰着想，他终止了刑事诉讼的程序。
Look, none of us can be certain what happened. The standard to send someone to prison is guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but shouldn’t the standard to honor someone be that they are unimpeachably, well, honorable?
看，我们当中没人能确定到底发生了什么。把某人送入监狱的标准是他毫无疑问确实有罪，可是，向某些人致敬的标准，难道不应该是这些人无可指摘地值得尊敬吗？
Yet the Golden Globes sided with Allen, in effect accusing Dylan either of lying or of not mattering. That’s the message that celebrities in film, music and sports too often send to abuse victims.
然而金球奖却站在了艾伦这边，实质上指责迪兰说谎，要不就说这事无足轻重。这是电影、音乐和体育界明星经常向性侵受害者传递的信息。
“I know it’s ‘he said, she said,’ ” Dylan told me. “But, to me, it’s black and white, because I was there.”
“我知道，人们看到的是‘他说的，和她说的’，”迪兰告诉我。“但对我来说，事实清楚明白，因为我是当事人。”
I asked her why she’s speaking out now. She said she wants to set the record straight and give courage to victims: “I was thinking, if I don’t speak out, I’ll regret it on my death bed.”
我问她为什么现在才说出真相。她说，她想要纠正以往的错误说法，给予受害者们勇气：“我想，如果我不说出真相，我会死不瞑目。”
These are extremely tough issues, and certainty isn’t available. But hundreds of thousands of boys and girls are abused each year, and they deserve support and sensitivity. When evidence is ambiguous, do we really need to leap to our feet and lionize an alleged molester?
这些是极其棘手的问题，而且找不到确凿的证据。但是每年有数十万的儿童遭到侵害，他们应该得到支持和理解。当证据模棱两可时，我们真的要立即行动起来，捍卫一个性侵嫌犯的明星地位吗？
But I want to leave you with a sense of Dylan’s resolve. She declares:
但是，我想让你们感受迪兰的决心。她宣布：
This time, I refuse to fall apart. For so long, Woody Allen’s acceptance silenced me. It felt like a personal rebuke, like the awards and accolades were a way to tell me to shut up and go away. But the survivors of sexual abuse who have reached out to me — to support me and to share their fears of coming forward, of being called a liar, of being told their memories aren’t their memories — have given me a reason to not be silent, if only so others know that they don’t have to be silent either.
这一次，我拒绝让自己崩溃。长久以来，伍迪·艾伦的名声使我沉默。这感觉就像是针对我个人的斥责，好像这些奖项和荣誉在让我闭嘴、走开。但是，一些经历过性侵但挺过来的人找到了我，给我支持，告诉我，他们也曾害怕站出来、害怕被叫做骗子、害怕别人说自己的记忆出了错，他们给了我打破沉默的理由，这样做至少其他受害人也会知道，他们同样没有必要保持沉默。
Today, I consider myself lucky. I am happily married. I have the support of my amazing brothers and sisters. I have a mother who found within herself a well of fortitude that saved us from the chaos a predator brought into our home.
现在，我觉得自己是幸运的。我的婚姻很幸福。我拥有我的好兄弟、好姐妹的支持。我母亲的无比坚毅把我们从一个掠夺者给我们家庭带来的混乱中拯救出来。
But others are still scared, vulnerable, and struggling for the courage to tell the truth. The message that Hollywood sends matters for them.
但仍然有人心存恐惧、脆弱不堪、为获得说出真相的勇气而苦苦挣扎。好莱坞传递的信息对他们至关重要。
That’s something for all of us, even those who aren’t stars, to reflect on.
她的话值得我们所有人反思，甚至是那些不是明星的普通人。