A mother asked me last week whether I thought she was spoiling her child. It was the typical pediatric exam-room version of the question: In the weary, self-doubting voice of the recently postpartum, she wondered if it was right to pick up and feed her crying baby.
上周，一位母亲问我她是不是太惯着自己的孩子了。这是个典型的小儿科诊室现象：年轻的母亲用那种产后不久的、疲惫不堪、自我怀疑的语气询问医生，把哭闹的孩子抱起来喂奶是对是错。
These days, a lot of parents are wondering about the spoiling question. A recent book review by Elizabeth Kolbert in The New Yorker compared American children unfavorably with the self-reliant and competent children of a tribe in the Peruvian Amazon; she discussed “the notion that we may be raising a generation of kids who can’t, or at least won’t, tie their own shoes.”
如今，很多家长都关心溺爱孩子这个问题。前一阵子，伊丽莎白·科尔伯特(Elizabeth Kolbert)在《纽约客》(The New Yorker)上发表的一篇书评里写到，秘鲁亚马逊某个族群的小孩又自立又能干，相比之下美国的小孩真是不怎么样。她提出一个观点：我们可能正在抚育不会——至少不乐意——自己系鞋带的下一代。
A parenting column in The New York Times acknowledged that Ms. Kolbert’s observations had struck home with many contemporary parents; more recently, an opinion piece advised parents to stop protecting their children from every disappointment.
纽约时报的一篇育儿专栏表示，科尔伯特女士的见解直击当代很多家长的要害。最近又有一篇新的观点文章提倡家长们不要次次在孩子面对失望时挺身而出，充当保护伞。
We’re clearly having another of those moments — and they do recur, across the generations — when parents worry that they’re not doing their job and that the next generation is consequently in grave danger. In cultural convulsions about how spoiled the children are, disapproving adults look back fondly on the rigors of their own childhoods. But many of the same parents (and grandparents) who are now worrying were members of the generation that Vice President Spiro T. Agnew accused Dr. Benjamin Spock of having spoiled.
无疑，另一种情况则无论身处哪个时代都会出现的：家长担心自己没有尽到责任从而使下一代置身于可怕的危险之中。在有关孩子被溺爱程度的观念冲撞里，对现状不满的家长总会得意地回想自己受到严格管教的童年。然而，这些心怀担忧的父母们（或祖父母们）正是斯皮罗·T·阿格纽(Spiro T. Agnew)副总统曾指责过的，被本杰明·斯波克(Benjamin Spock)博士过度放纵的那一代。
Indeed, the overprivileged and overindulged child was a stock character in 19th-century novels: As veteran governesses who presumably knew the territory, the Brontë sisters wrote powerful portraits of spoiled older children. The culture changes, but many of the battlegrounds remain the same.
事实上在19世纪的小说里，被过度宠溺放纵的小孩是有固定形象的：身经百战的家庭女教师大概对此最为了解。勃朗特姐妹们曾精准有力地刻画过被宠坏的大孩子们。纵使文化变迁，女教师和坏小孩的战场始终不变。
In the pediatric office today, parents often bring up spoiling, as that mother did last week, in reference to young babies, sleep and feeding. It’s as if the later, more confusing questions about how to respond to a child’s demands crystallize in those early months when the new baby cries and the parents worry.
今天的儿科诊室中，小婴儿的父母总会提到溺爱问题（睡眠和喂奶）就像上周来问我的那位母亲一样。在最初的几个月里，越到后来，那些如何回应孩子需求的麻烦问题就愈见清晰——孩子一哭，家长就着急。
The official pediatric line — I said some version of this to that mother last week — is that you can’t spoil babies by taking good care of them. But even that doesn’t turn out to be simple.
官方说法是：对孩子再好，也不可能宠坏他们的。对那位母亲，我也用了类似的说法。可这并不是简简单单就能做到的。
“It’s important to be there and to be responsive and responsible, but it also doesn’t mean that you have to be totally at the whim of the baby,” said Dr. Pamela High, a professor of pediatrics at Brown University and medical director of the Fussy Baby Clinic at the Brown Center for the Study of Children. “You’re teaching them patterns and routine and regularity.”
“你需要在孩子身边，有所回应并负起责任——但不代表你要在任何时候都立即满足孩子。”布朗大学(Brown University)儿科学专家、布朗儿童研究中心(the Brown Center for the Study of Children)坏脾气宝宝诊所(Fussy Baby Clinic)医学主管帕梅拉·海伊(Pamela High)博士说：“你要教给他们日常模式、程序和规律。”
Parents can meet a baby’s needs while still allowing her a chance to learn to settle down and sleep without being held. In a randomized study on babies with colic that was published this year by Dr. High’s group, when parents got help with issues of feeding, sleep, routine and their own mental health, those colicky babies cried less and slept more.
家长可以在满足孩子需要的同时让她有机会学习如何安静下来、如何不用抱就自己入睡。今年，海伊博士的研究组发表了一项对肠绞痛婴儿进行的随机试验。结果表明，如果家长在喂奶、婴儿睡眠、大小便和家长自身精神健康方面得到过帮助，那么他们的孩子哭闹次数少、睡得时间长。
As children get older, setting limits and establishing family routines and expectations gets more complicated. But it’s still a question of balancing immediate gratification and larger life lessons.
随着孩子长大，设定限制、建立家庭惯例与期望就变得更加复杂。但是从始至终都有一个平衡“即刻满足”和“给予更长远生活经验”的问题。
It’s also an area where we still feel comfortable and righteous blaming and judging other parents — and ourselves.
也有一些时候，我们觉得评判指责其他父母——或我们自己是适宜的、正当的。
Problematic childhood behaviors once attributed to incompetent or destructive parenting are now understood to be hard-wired, set by genetics, reflecting neurological differences. We don’t blame bad parenting for autism now, or A.D.H.D. But “spoiled” evokes traits and behaviors for which we’re often quick to hold parents responsible.
问题儿童的行为举止一度被怪罪到家长不适当或有害的育儿方法上。然而现在发现，这是硬件问题：由基因造成的神经差异。我们不能责怪自闭症患儿或多动症儿童的父母没有教好孩子。但是“溺爱”这个词能让人联想到某些品行，使我们立刻就把矛头指向了家长。
As Roald Dahl put it in 1964 in “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,” “A girl can’t spoil herself, you know.”
正如1964年罗阿尔德·达尔(Roald Dahl)在《查理和巧克力工厂》(Charlie and the Chocolate Factory)里说的：“一个女孩不可能自己宠坏自己，你懂的。”
Dr. Mark Bertin, a developmental behavioral pediatrician in Pleasantville, N.Y., affiliated with New York Medical College, sees a wide range of children with behavioral problems, teasing apart contributions of neurological wiring, temperament and family style.
来自纽约州普莱森特维尔、隶属于纽约医学院的发育行为儿科专家马克·贝尔廷(Mark Bertin)博士给各种各样有行为问题的小孩看过病，从中梳理分析出了神经、性情及家风在其中的作用。
Though parenting style is hard to study, he points to a body of research that cumulatively suggests that children benefit from strategies that build self-control and emotional resilience.
尽管育儿方法研究起来很困难，但他指出，大量研究结果表明儿童可受益于自我控制及情绪复原培训。
“We’re talking about kids who aren’t brought up with limits,” he said. “We all want our kids to be happy moment to moment, but there are some skills you learn from growing up with limits and the opportunity to experience frustration.”
“我们讨论的是不在约束中长大的孩子，”他说，“我们都希望小孩时刻都开心，但是有些生活上的技能是从受约束的成长和体会失望的情景中学习来的。”
The saying-no and limit-setting challenges for parents of young children often revolve around food, sleep and media. “By setting limits, we’re teaching them what our values are and the way we think they can lead a happier, productive life,” Dr. High said.
幼儿以吃、睡、看电视或玩电脑为中心。对于他们的家长而言，说“不”或设定限制是有挑战性的。“通过设限，我们教给孩子价值观，以及我们认为能够成就更快乐、更有作为的生活的方法，”海伊博士说。
With older children, you get into the issue of stuff. “When I think of spoiling, you’re talking about attention and you’re talking about things,” Dr. High said. “I don’t think you can spoil with too much attention to what your kids are doing and thinking and suffering from, but I think you sometimes have to be careful about things.”
对于更大一点的孩子，你就要考虑到物质给予的问题了。“谈到溺爱，我们是指给予的关注度以及实实在在的东西，”海伊博士说，“我不认为你能通过过度关注孩子的行为、需求和痛苦宠坏他们。反倒是你应当注意给了他们多少物质。”
You don’t have to be wealthy to overindulge a child with stuff. And offering things that substitute for parental attention is particularly problematic. Is the child with a huge television in the bedroom and unfettered access to all screens overindulged — or neglected?
用物质来宠坏孩子，你甚至不需要多富有。用提供物质来代替家长的关注是尤其有问题的。一个在卧室里拥有巨大电视、玩电脑打游戏都不受限制的孩子算是被宠溺，还是被忽视了呢？
I can’t tell you whether children today are more spoiled or whether more of them are spoiled. There are real differences in child-rearing over time, some reflecting the culture’s larger trajectories of affluence and technology. But then there are also the recurring bouts of self-examination and self-criticism that reflect adult engagement with parenthood. Whatever the generation, responding to the wants and needs of children while trying to teach the lessons that will fortify their characters is a tricky assignment. We get it wrong some of the time, no matter what we do.
我不能说现在的孩子是被更溺爱了，还是更多的孩子正被溺爱着。不同年代的育儿方法大不相同，有些能够反一个文化的富裕程度和科技发展的大轨迹。但时不时的，总会出现有关于家长在育儿这件事上投入了多少的自我反省与自我检讨。然而无论什么时代，既要回应孩子的需求，又要教他们人生大课程用以强壮其个性都是个棘手的任务。不管怎样，我们有时就是会犯错。