America’s war on poverty turned 50 years old this week, and plenty of people have concluded that, as President Reagan put it: “We fought a war on poverty, and poverty won.”
本周，美国向贫困宣战已满50年，许多人得出结论：正如里根总统所说的那样，“我们向贫困宣战，贫困赢了。”
That perception shapes the right’s suspicion of food stamps, minimum-wage raises and extensions of unemployment benefits. A reader named Frank posted on my Facebook page: “All the government aid/handouts in the world will not make people better parents. This is why the ideas from the left, although always made with the best of intentions, never work. ... All of this aid is wasted.”
那种观点形成了右翼对食品券、对提高最低工资和对延长失业救济的怀疑。一位名为弗兰克(Frank)的读者在我的Facebook页面上发帖称：“世界上所有的政府援助/救济，都不会让人成为更好的父母。这就是为什么左翼的想法，虽然总是出于最好的意图，却从不奏效……所有这些援助都白白浪费了。”
Yet a careful look at the evidence suggests that such a view is flat wrong. In fact, the first lesson of the war on poverty is that we can make progress against poverty, but that it’s an uphill slog.
然而，仔细审视证据之后，就会认识到，这样的观点大错特错。事实上，我们从反贫困战争得到的第一个教训是，我们可以在与贫困的斗争中取得进步，但这是一条异常艰难的上坡道路。
The most accurate measures, using Census Bureau figures that take account of benefits, suggest that poverty rates have fallen by more than one-third since 1968. There’s a consensus that without the war on poverty, other forces (such as mass incarceration, a rise in single mothers and the decline in trade unions) would have lifted poverty much higher.
最准确的评估——使用人口普查局(Census Bureau)将福利计算在内的数字——显示，贫困率自1968年起降低了三分之一以上。目前存在一个共识，那就是如果我们没有向贫困宣战，其他一些因素（如大规模监禁、单身母亲数量增加和工会衰退）会让贫困率比现在高很多。
A Columbia University study suggests that without government benefits, the poverty rate would have soared to 31 percent in 2012. Indeed, an average of 27 million people were lifted annually out of poverty by social programs between 1968 and 2012, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
一项哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的研究显示，如果没有政府福利，2012年的贫困率可能会激增到31%。事实上，根据白宫经济顾问委员会(White House Council of Economic Advisers)的统计，1968年到2012年之间，社会福利项目每年让平均2700万人脱离贫困。
The best example of how government antipoverty programs can succeed involves the elderly. In 1960, about 35 percent of older Americans were poor. In 2012, 9 percent were. That’s because senior citizens vote, so politicians listened to them and buttressed programs like Social Security and Medicare.
政府的脱贫项目如何能够成功，最好的范例涉及对老龄人口的重视。1960年，大约有35%的美国老龄人口生活贫困。2012年，比例是9%。那是因为老年公民参与投票，所以政客们听取了他们的意见，并支持了社会安全福利(Social Security)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)等项目。
In contrast, children are voiceless, so they are the age group most likely to be poor today. That’s a practical and moral failure.
相比之下，儿童却没有发言权，所以他们是如今最有可能受穷的年龄群体。而这无论是在现实层面，还是道德层面，都属于失败。
I don’t want anybody to be poor, but, if I have to choose, I’d say it’s more of a priority to help kids than seniors. In part, that’s because when kids are deprived of opportunities, the consequences can include a lifetime of educational failure, crime and underemployment.
我不希望任何人受穷，但如果我不得不做出选择，我会说，帮助儿童比帮助老年人更紧要。从某种程度上来说，那是因为一旦儿童失去应有的机会，结果可能会是一生的教育失败、犯罪和不充分就业。
Research from neuroscience underscores why early interventions are so important. Early brain development turns out to have lifelong consequences, and research from human and animal studies alike suggests that a high-stress early childhood in poverty changes the physical brain in subtle ways that impair educational performance and life outcomes.
神经科学领域的研究强调早期干预十分重要。早期的大脑发育将会影响一生，对人类和动物的研究都显示，童年早期的贫困和高压，会以微妙的方式改变大脑的物理结构，影响他们在学校的表现和一生的成就。
A careful review of antipoverty programs in a new book, “Legacies of the War on Poverty,” shows that many of them have a clear impact — albeit sometimes not as great an impact as advocates hoped.
新书《向贫穷宣战之后》(Legacies of the War on Poverty)仔细评述了各种脱贫项目，显示出这其中的许多项目都带来了明显的影响，虽然有时不像倡导者们最初希望的那么好。
For starters, one of the most basic social programs that works — indeed pays for itself many times over — is family-planning assistance for at-risk teenage girls. This has actually been one of America’s most successful social programs in recent years. The teenage birthrate has fallen by half over roughly the last 20 years.
首先，说到各个实际奏效的最基本社会项目——能产生高于运营费用数倍的效益，其中一项就是针对高风险少女的家庭援助计划。这实际上是美国近年来最成功的社会项目之一。在大约20年的时间里，少女的生育率已经降低了一半。
Another hugely successful array of programs involved parent coaching to get pregnant women to drink and smoke less and to encourage at-risk moms to talk to their children more. Programs like Nurse-Family Partnership, Healthy Families America, Child First, Save the Children and Thirty Million Words Project all have had great success in helping parents do a better job with their kids.
另外一系列取得巨大成功的项目则涉及对父母的培训，让怀孕妇女少饮酒、少吸烟，鼓励高风险母亲与她们的孩子更多交流。“护士-家庭伙伴”(Nurse-Family Partnership)、“美国健康家庭”(Healthy Families America)、“儿童第一”(Child First)、“救助儿童会”(Save the Children)和“3000万单词项目”(Thirty Million Words project)等项目都在帮助父母更好地照顾孩子方面取得了巨大成就。
Early education likewise has strong evidence of impact. Critics note that in Head Start, for example, gains in I.Q. seem to fade within a few years. That’s true and disappointing. But in the last five years, robust studies from scholars like David Deming have shown that graduates of Head Start also have improved life outcomes: higher high school graduation and college attendance rates, and less likely to be out of school and out of a job.
同样地，也有许多证据显示出早期教育带来的影响。例如，批评人士指出，学前教育计划(Head Start)取得的智力提高看似在几年内即会消失。那的确属实，也令人失望。但在过去五年，戴维·戴明(David Deming)等学者的大量研究显示，参加过学前教育计划的儿童日后会在一生的成就上有所提高：完成高中学业的比例和大学出勤的比例都较高，而失学和失业的比例则较低。
Another area of success: Programs that encourage jobs, especially for the most at-risk groups. The earned-income tax credit is a huge benefit to the working poor and to society.
另一个成功的领域是鼓励就业的项目，特别是针对最高风险群体的此类项目。劳动所得税抵扣(earned-income tax credit)项目为低薪阶层和社会带来了巨大的益处。
Likewise, a program called Career Academies has had excellent results training at-risk teenagers in specialized careers and giving them practical work experience. Even eight years later, those young people randomly assigned to Career Academies are earning significantly more than those in control groups.
同样地，一项名为“职业学院”(Career Academies)的项目培训高风险青少年，在帮助他们确定专业化职业发展和取得实践工作的经验上取得了出色的成就。甚至在过了八年之后，那些曾随机安排给职业学院项目的青年，与对照组相比收入要高得多。
As that example suggests, we increasingly have first-rate research — randomized controlled trials, testing antipoverty programs as rigorously as if they were pharmaceuticals — that give us solid evidence of what works or doesn’t.
正如这一案例所显示的，有越来越多一流的研究——像测试药物那样严格地测评脱贫项目的随机对照试验——给了我们充分的证据，告诉我们哪些是奏效的，哪些不是。
So let’s drop the bombast and look at the evidence.
所以，我们不要再夸夸其谈，拿证据说话吧。
Critics are right that antipoverty work is difficult and that dependency can be a problem. But the premise of so much of today’s opposition to food stamps and other benefits — that government assistance inevitably fails — is just wrong. And child poverty is as unconscionable in a rich nation today as it was half a century ago.
批评人士们说，脱贫工作十分艰难，而且也可能会产生依赖性，这都没错。但如今在反对食品券和其他社会福利的声音中，其假设前提完全错了，即政府援助必然失败。不论是现在，还是半个世纪前，儿童贫困在一个富裕国家都是一样不合情理的。