For all you innumerable skeptics of President Obama’s calls for military strikes on Syria, consider this:
对于奥巴马总统向叙利亚发动军事打击的呼吁持怀疑态度的人，在各位读者当中数不胜数。不过请考虑这一点：
For decades, Syria has refused to confirm that it has chemical weapons. Now, facing a limited strike, its position abruptly changed to: Oh! We do have them after all! And we want to sign the Chemical Weapons Convention! We want to show them to United Nations inspectors.
数十年来，叙利亚都拒绝承认该国拥有化学武器。而现在，面临着有限军事打击的威胁，该国的立场突然转变了：我们的确有化学武器，我们原意签署《禁止化学武器公约》(Chemical Weapons Convention)，也原意把化武展示给联合国核查员！
In short, the mere flexing of military power worked — initially and tentatively. And while it seems that neither Congress nor the public has any appetite for cruise missile strikes on Syria, it will be critical to keep the military option alive in the coming weeks or Russia and Syria will play us like a yo-yo.
简而言之，只是展示了一下军事力量，就产生了效果，尽管只是尚无定论的初步效果。虽然无论国会还是公众，似乎都没有兴趣对叙利亚开展巡航导弹袭击，但在未来几周继续维持动武的选项是至关重要的，否则俄罗斯和叙利亚就会像玩悠悠球一样耍我们。
Frankly, I’m skeptical that a deal can be worked out in which Syria hands over its chemical weaponry, and President Obama may have exchanged a losing struggle with Congress with a Sisyphean struggle with Russia. But it’s not impossible. And even if Syria cheated and stalled and eventually handed over only half of its chemical arsenal and none of its biological arsenal, that would still be a huge win for global security.
说实话，我很怀疑是否能与叙利亚达成一项交出该国化学武器的协议，而奥巴马总统可能是放弃了一场与国会之间必输的斗争，却与俄罗斯开始了一场西绪福斯似的斗争。这并非完全没有可能，但即使叙利亚作弊或者拖延，最终只交出了其拥有的一半化学武器，没有交出任何生物武器，这对国际安全而言也仍然是一个巨大的胜利。
So here’s a three-track strategy for Syria going forward:
对于叙利亚，要实行三管齐下的战略：
•Negotiate with Moscow on removal of Syrian chemical weapons and insist on conditions to ensure we’re not being played, including immediate disclosure to the United Nations of chemical weapons stockpiles, a binding Security Council resolution confirming the deal, a reference in the resolution to “serious consequences” for noncompliance, and immediate installation of camera monitors on at least a few locations.
与俄罗斯就叙利亚化武的清除展开谈判，并且要坚持一些条件确保我们不会被玩弄，包括立即向联合国公布化学武器储备、安理会通过有法律约束力的决议确认这项协议、在决议中阐明如不服从会有“严重后果”，而且至少要在一些地点立即安装监控摄像头。
•Groundwork in Congress to authorize a limited missile strike if Syria does not comply, partly to retain leverage with Moscow.
要在国会开展基础工作，授权在叙利亚拒不服从的情况下，实施有限度的导弹袭击，这部分上也是为了维持对俄罗斯的制约。
•Expansion of efforts to arm and support moderate Syrian rebels, accompanied by covert cyberwarfare on the Syrian regime, to try to change the momentum on the ground.
要扩大向温和的叙利亚反对派提供武器和支持的力度，同时也要对叙利亚政权开展秘密网络战，以此改变战场上的局势。
Ultimately, that’s the best hope to coerce President Bashar al-Assad to step down so that all sides can try to reach a cease-fire and power-sharing agreement. Yet if we’re going to sustain the pressure, we have to address these fundamental questions: Can we really promote peace with military force? Is it possible to help a country by bombing it?
最终，这才是迫使叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)下台，进而使各方尝试达成挺火和分权协议的最好的希望。然而如果要继续施压，就必须面对一些根本性的问题：真的能以武力推动和平吗？真的能通过轰炸一个国家来帮助那个国家吗？
Longtime readers know that I adamantly opposed the Iraq war and Afghan surge, oppose strikes on Iranian nuclear sites and tend to think we overinvest in military tools and underinvest in diplomatic ones. So many readers were stunned that I’ve endorsed missile strikes on Syria — and I’m hearing screams of betrayal.
老读者们知道我强烈反对伊拉克战争和向阿富汗增兵，反对向伊朗核设施发动袭击，而且倾向于认为我们对军事手段投资过度，对外交手段却投资不足。当我表示支持对叙利亚发动导弹袭击时，许多读者都震惊了，我也听到有人高呼受到了背叛。
“You can’t kill people to show that it’s wrong to kill people,” Christine protested on my Facebook page.
“你不能通过杀人来证明杀人是错的，”克里斯汀(Christine)在我的Facebook页面上评论道。
“When has violence, killing and aggression helped anything,” demanded Jan, also on Facebook.
简(Jan)也在Facebook上质问，“暴力、杀戮和侵犯何曾对任何事起到过帮助？”
The answer is: Sierra Leone, Mali, Ivory Coast, Bosnia and Kosovo. In each of those countries, an outside military force intervened at minimal cost and saved large numbers of lives. In several (as Clausewitz would have predicted), war buttressed diplomacy and helped achieve peace agreements.
答案是：塞拉利昂、马里、科特迪瓦、波黑和科索沃。这些国家中，每一个都有外国军事力量介入，以极小的代价拯救了很多人的生命。在若干个例子中，战争支撑了外交，也帮助达成了和平协议。克劳塞维茨(Clausewitz)恐怕也会做出这样的论断。
We think of warfare in binary terms, as if our options are invasions or nothing at all, but that’s misleading. All-out wars have a poor record, but modest interventions of the kind President Obama is talking about in Syria have a more successful (though still mixed) history.
我们对战争的印象是非黑即白的，仿佛可供选择的做法就只有两种：要么侵略、要么无动于衷，但这种论断有误导性。历史上全面战争的效果很糟糕，然而针对奥巴马提议对叙利亚采取的适度干预，在过去还是有不少成功案例（当然也有失败）。
That’s even true in Iraq, although I hate to mention the word because it sends a shudder up every reader’s spine. While the war that began in 2003 was a disaster, two limited interventions succeeded in Iraq. One was President Clinton’s 1998 bombing of Iraqi military sites for a few days (maybe the closest parallel to Obama’s plan for Syria); it may have convinced Saddam Hussein to abandon W.M.D. programs. The other is the no-fly zone over Iraq’s Kurdish areas in the 1990s to prevent a genocide there. They were limited uses of force that proceeded so smoothly that they are hardly remembered.
就连在伊拉克，这似乎都是成立的，尽管我不愿说起这个词，因为它会让每位读者脊背发凉。虽然始于2003年的战争是一场灾难，但在伊拉克采取的两次有限度的干预却成功了。一次是1998年克林顿总统(Clinton)对伊拉克的军事目标进行数日轰炸（这或许是最接近于奥巴马对叙利亚的计划的行动）；它或许说服了萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)放弃大规模杀伤性武器。另一次则是上世纪90年代在伊拉克的库尔德地区设立的禁飞区，这在那里避免了一场种族灭绝。这两次都是有限的军事行动，行动的展开十分顺利，以至于很少有人还记得它们。
“War is obviously terrible, but it’s not the ultimate evil,” notes Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch. “Some things are worse, and one is the deliberate slaughter of civilians.”
“战争很显然是可怕的，但它并不是终极的邪恶，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)执行总监肯尼思·罗斯(Kenneth Roth)说。“有一些事情比战争更糟糕，其中一种就是蓄意屠杀平民。”
Human Rights Watch doesn’t take a position on a strike on Syria, and Roth notes that military intervention isn’t the first tool to reach for to prevent mass atrocities. Sometimes armed intervention hurts. Sometimes it helps. We’re left to decide on a case-by-case basis.
人权观察对军事打击叙利亚不持任何立场，罗斯也指出，军事干预并不是避免大规模暴行的首选工具。有时候军事干预会产生损害，有时候会起到帮助。我们得针对具体的案例具体分析作决定。
In Syria, for two-and-a-half years, we’ve given the regime a green light, and the killing has escalated from 5,000 a year to 5,000 a month — and, last month, to a poison gas attack that was perhaps the biggest massacre in the war. Now Obama’s threat of military strikes has turned the light yellow, Syria is scrambling to adjust, and there is some hope of a diplomatic solution.
在叙利亚，过去两年半的时间里，我们一直都给阿萨德政权开了绿灯，于是杀戮的规模从每年5000人，提高到了每月5000人。而上个月的一次毒气袭击，可能成了这次战争中最大的一场屠杀。现在，奥巴马进行军事打击的威胁把信号灯变成了黄色，这让叙利亚手忙脚乱地开始调整，并为外交解决方案带来了一些希望。
Let’s not allow the light to go green again.
我们不能再让信号灯变绿了。