MANILA — The soaring number of killings by the police in the Philippines is being caused by drug suspects who choose to battle officers instead of surrendering, the nation’s top police official told lawmakers on Tuesday.
马尼拉——周二，菲律宾警察部门的最高官员告诉议员，死于警察之手的人数之所以激增，是因为贩毒嫌疑人没有选择投降，而是与警察对抗。
“If they did not fight it out with police, they would be alive,” said the national police chief, Ronald dela Rosa, who is heading the country’s deadly antidrug war.
“如果他们没有竭力反抗警察，他们就会活下来，”警察总长罗纳德·德拉罗沙(Ronald dela Rosa)说。菲律宾正在进行的极其危险的缉毒战争由他负责。
He said the number of deaths since the campaign began on July 1 had jumped to 1,916 — 137 more than the figure he gave senators on Monday, the first of two days of hearings devoted to the killings. He said on Tuesday that reports of killings came in daily from police units around the country. “As I was presenting yesterday,” he said, “there were people killed.”
他表示，自缉毒行动于7月1日开展以来，死亡人数达1916人——比他周一告诉参议院的数字多出了137人。有关这些死亡事件的听证会从周一开始，为期两天。他在周二称，死亡数字的报告每天会从全国的警察部门汇总。“我昨天做报告的同时，”他说，“就有人身亡。”
Of the total dead, he said, 756 were suspects killed by the police and 1,160 were killed “outside police operations,” many of them by vigilantes. Eighty bodies have been found with cardboard signs proclaiming them to be drug dealers, he said. Not all the killings were drug-related, he said, and the police are investigating.
他表示，在全部死亡者当中，756人是死于警方之手的嫌疑人，另外的1160人死于“警方行动之外”，其中许多是治安联防人员的行动。他说，有80具尸体旁边有纸板宣称，他们是毒贩。他还表示，并非所有杀人行为都与毒品有关，而警方正在进行调查。
The campaign to eradicate drugs, mainly methamphetamine, was started by the Philippines’ new president, Rodrigo Duterte, who has made going after drug dealers and users his highest priority since taking office on June 30. He has repeatedly called for eliminating drug sellers and addicts, and gave the police shoot-to-kill orders when facing suspects who resist.
旨在铲除以冰毒为主的毒品的行动，由菲律宾新任总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)发起。自6月30日上任以来，他将打击毒贩及吸毒者列为自己最重视的议题。他反复呼吁消灭毒贩和瘾君子，并下令警察在遇到嫌疑人负隅顽抗时直接射杀。
The president’s campaign against drugs has broad public support, and Chief dela Rosa said members of the public were pleased by what he asserted was an immediate reduction in all categories of crime once the police effort began.
总统发起的缉毒行动得到了民众的广泛支持。警察总长德拉罗沙表示，对于他声称的自警察开始行动以来各类犯罪行为均立即有所减少的现象，有不少民众感到满意。
The wave of killings, however, has come under attack from human rights advocates and some elected officials who contend that those accused of a crime should have a chance to defend themselves in court, not be gunned down in the street.
不过，这轮杀戮浪潮逐渐遭到人权倡导人士和部分民选官员的抨击。他们主张，受到犯罪指控的人应当有机会在法庭上进行辩护，而不是遭当街击毙。
In addition, some family members of victims have challenged the police version of events and say their loved ones were not resisting arrest when they were killed.
此外，一些遇害者的家人反驳了警方的说法，表示他们的亲人遭射杀时并未顽抗。
The two days of hearings on the killings were held by the Senate’s Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Public Order and Dangerous Drugs. The Human Rights Committee has identified witnesses and relatives in at least 11 suspected wrongful killings, but most of them were not called to testify.
此次为期两天的杀戮事件听证会，由参议院的司法与人权委员会(Committee on Justice and Human Rights)和公共秩序与危险药物委员会(Committee on Public Order and Dangerous Drugs)联合举行。人权委员会找出了至少11桩不当射杀事件的目击者与亲属，不过其中多数并未受到传唤前来作证。
One senator, Panfilo Lacson, a former national police chief, said the antidrug campaign was both “impressive and alarming,” and he asked whether the police were following standard operating procedures.
曾任菲律宾警察总长的参议员潘菲卢·拉克松(Panfilo Lacson)表示此次缉毒行动既“令人印象深刻也让人担忧”，并想知道警方是否遵循了标准的行动程序。
Chief dela Rosa called the drug eradication program “a total war” but said the police were following established procedures. Officers have not been ordered to kill drug dealers, he said, but have become more aggressive because they know they have Mr. Duterte’s support.
德拉罗沙把铲除毒品的计划称为“一场全面战争”，但也表示警方遵循了现有程序。他说，警察并未接到直接击毙毒贩的命令，但因为知道有杜特地总统的支持而变得更强势了。
“We are not butchers,” he said.
“我们不是屠夫，”他说。
Before becoming president, Mr. Duterte was mayor of Davao City, where a similar wave of killings starting in the 1980s reduced drug dealing and other crime. Chief dela Rosa was the police chief in Davao, the Philippines’ largest city outside metropolitan Manila, before Mr. Duterte named him to head the national police.
成为总统之前，杜特地曾是达沃市市长。那里在80年代开展的类似的杀戮行动，减少了贩毒等犯罪活动。达沃是菲律宾除马尼拉都会区之外最大的城市，而德拉罗沙担任过当地的警察局长，然后被杜特地任命为全国警察部门的负责人。
The police also are trying to eradicate drugs and criminal behavior within their own ranks, the chief told the senators. Eleven rogue police officers have been killed in police operations, 130 officers have tested positive for drug use and 20 have been arrested, he said.
德拉罗沙告诉参议员们，警方还在努力根除自身队伍里的毒品与犯罪行为。他透露，有11名违法警员在警方行动中死亡、130人药检呈阳性、20人被捕。
Fatalities outside police operations in the recent spate of deaths have included two police officers, eight soldiers, 29 elected officials and 10 government employees, he said. The deaths are under investigation.
他说，在最近这轮死亡浪潮里，死于警方行动之外的人当中，包括两名警员、八名军人、29名民选官员和10名政府雇员。针对这些死亡案件的调查现已展开。
Lawmakers heard testimony on Monday from Mary Rose Aquino, who said her parents were police informers and were killed by corrupt officers who took drugs for themselves and feared being identified. On Tuesday, Chief dela Rosa said he had suspended five officers connected with that case, pending an investigation.
议员们周一听取了玛丽·罗斯·阿基诺(Mary Rose Aquino)的证词。她说，自己的父母是警方线人，被本身吸毒却害怕曝光的腐败警员射杀。周二的时候，德拉罗沙表示，他已将与此案有关的五名警员停职，准备接受调查。
Lawmakers also heard on Monday from Harra Kazuo, whose husband, Jaypee Bertes, and his father, Renato Bertes, were killed by officers inside a jail cell at the Pasay City police station. The chief said on Tuesday that the two officers involved would face murder charges.
议员们还在周一听取了哈拉·卡佐(Harra Kazuo)的证词。她的丈夫杰佩·伯特斯(Jaypee Bertes)和公公雷纳托·伯特斯(Renato Bertes)在帕赛市警察局的牢房里被警员杀死。德拉罗沙周二称，两名涉事警员将面临谋杀指控。
“It pains us to file a murder case against them,” he said. “Otherwise, people will say we are covering up for them.”
“对他们提起谋杀诉讼让我们很痛苦，”他说。“但不这么做的话，民众会说我们在包庇他们。”
During a news conference on Sunday in Davao City, Mr. Duterte responded to criticism about his human rights record from American officials by citing police shootings of black men in the United States.
在周日于达沃市召开的新闻发布会上，面对有关美国官员对他的人权记录进行批评的提问，杜特地援引了美国警察击毙黑人的事例。
“Why are you Americans killing the black people there, shooting them down when they are already on the ground?” he asked. “Answer that question, because even if it’s just one or two or three, it is still human rights violations.”
“为什么你们美国人要杀黑人？他们已经趴在地上了还要射杀？”他反问。“请回答这个问题，因为就算只有一两次、两三次，也违反了人权。”
Mark Toner, a spokesman for the State Department, said the United States was “by no means perfect, but we strive to have in place a justice system that treats all people with respect and respects their human rights.”
美国国务院发言人马克·托纳(Mark Toner)对此表示，美国“绝非完美，但我们力争建立一个尊重所有人及其人权的司法制度。”