Try this quick word association:
看到以下单词，请快速做出联想：
Sadist.
施虐狂。
And you respond… Hannibal Lecter? The Marquis de Sade?
你想到的是谁……汉尼拔·莱克特(Hannibal Lecter)？萨德侯爵(Marquis de Sade)？
Actually, you didn’t need to come up with representatives of extreme criminal behavior or sexual torture. You might just as well have considered the colleague two cubicles over. The one who spends lunch hour splattering the brains of video game characters.
其实，你大可不必想出一连串做出极端犯罪行为或性虐待行为的代表人物。也许你可以考虑下座位跟你只隔了两个格子的同事。那个利用午休时间疯狂击打视频游戏人物脑袋的人。
Those who enjoy inflicting at least moderate pain on others, directly or vicariously, mingle with us daily. Think mean girls, taunting a classmate to commit suicide. Or the professor who grills a squirming, clueless student, lips curled in a small, savage smile.
那些直接或间接从向他人身上施加痛苦而获得乐趣的人，平日里就混迹在我们中间。想想那些刻薄的女孩，她们会奚落同班同学，让人愤而自杀。或者是那位教授，当他在拷问着羞愧难当、全无头绪的学生时，嘴角露出一抹残酷的微笑。
Delroy L. Paulhus, a psychology professor at the University of British Columbia, calls such people “everyday sadists.”
不列颠哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)的心理学教授德罗伊·普哈斯(Delroy L. Pauhus)称这类人为“日常施虐狂”。
“They exist on a spectrum,” he said. “It could be at a hockey game and your guy is pummeling the opponent into hamburger and people are standing up having orgasms, to taking revenge on those you think deserve it, to schadenfreude.”
“他们在一定范围里是存在着的，”他说：“可能是在一场冰球比赛上，你支持的球队把对手揍成肉泥，所有人都跳起来爽得要死，也可能是占了谁的便宜，你觉得对方纯属活该，也可能是幸灾乐祸。”
But acknowledging that sadists regularly cross our paths is unsettling, said Scott O. Lilienfeld, a professor of psychology at Emory University, who studies personality disorders. “We prefer to think, ‘There’s sadists, and then there’s the rest of us.’ ”
不过，艾默里大学(Emory University)的心理学教授斯科特·O·利里安菲尔德(Scott O. Lilienfeld)说，认识到施虐狂常常与我们擦肩而过，这会让人十分不安，这位研究人格障碍的教授说：“我们宁可这样去想，‘这些是施虐狂，其余是我们正常人。’”
There is little research on sadism, because of the ethical and moral dilemmas posed by laboratory experiments. Recruiting participants poses other hurdles.
由于临床试验面临伦理与道德的两难处境，现在鲜有关于施虐的研究。而征募参试者也会面临各种障碍。
In a study published this month in the journal Psychological Science, Dr. Paulhus and his associates developed a questionnaire and experiments to identify ordinary people with a tendency to revel in others’ suffering.
在本月发表在《心理科学学刊》(Psychological Science)的研究中，普哈斯博士和他的同事设计了一份问卷和几项试验，用来甄别普通人是否有从他人受苦受难中得到快感的倾向。
In the study’s first experiment, to learn if everyday sadism correlated with the questionnaire, researchers recruited 71 psychology students, ostensibly to understand “personality and tolerance for challenging jobs.”
研究的第一项试验目的是了解日常施虐狂与问卷内容是否有正向关联。研究者征集了71名心理系的学生，并告知研究是为了理解“个性与对挑战性工作的承受力”。
The students chose among tasks that stood for jobs: killing bugs (exterminator); helping the exterminator (exterminator’s assistant); cleaning toilets (sanitation worker); or enduring pain from ice water (a worker in cold environments). Among the participants, nearly 53 percent chose to be bug assassins or assistants, 34 percent chose toilet-cleaning and 13 percent pain tolerance. Gender was evenly distributed among those choosing various tasks.
学生们要选择代表各类工作的任务，包括杀死虫子（代表灭虫者）、协助灭虫者（灭虫者的助手）、打扫厕所（清洁工）或者忍受冰水带来的痛苦（高寒环境中的工人）。在参与者中，有近53%选择作为灭虫者或助手，34%选择打扫厕所，还有13%决定忍受痛苦。在对各项任务的选择中，男女生是呈均匀分布的。
Students who chose to be bug-killers were presented with three cups, each holding a live pill bug. To anthropomorphize the bugs, each was given a name: Muffin, Ike, or Tootsie. Bug-killers had to drop a bug into a modified coffee grinder, force the top down, and grind the bug up.
选择杀死虫子的学生得到了三个杯子，每个里面装着一只活的球潮虫。为了给小虫子赋予人性，研究者给每只虫子起了个名字，比如马芬、艾克或杜丝。灭虫者必须将虫子丢进一个改装过的咖啡磨里，将虫子头朝下扔进去，然后将它磨碎。
(Note to cringing readers: a secret barrier spared the tiny troika. Though the machines emitted crunching sounds, the researchers said, “no bugs were harmed in the experiment.”)
（不安的读者们，请注意：咖啡磨的刀口处加装了一个隐秘的卡口，尽管机器发出嘎吱嘎吱的声音，但研究者说，“在试验中并没有小虫子遭受到伤害。”）
During the execution of the assignment, some bug-killers quit after one or two. But some asked for more bugs.
在执行死刑期间，一些灭虫者在杀死一个或两个小虫子后放弃了。但也有些要求再发给自己些虫子。
On a questionnaire rating their emotional reaction to their “jobs,” the bug-killers who ground up all three had the highest scores describing significantly greater pleasure than did those who didn’t finish or who chose to assist. The study’s second experiment looked at the lengths to which a sadist would go to hurt an innocent victim.
随后，参试者需要在表格中为自己完成“工作”时的情绪反应给出评分，相比没有灭完三只虫子或者选择协助的参试者，灭了三只小虫的学生在形容获得了显著的愉悦感方面，给自己打的分数最高。研究的第二项试验，则需要了解施虐狂为了伤害无辜的受害者，愿意付出多大的代价。
In 2002, Dr. Paulhus and colleagues had proposed a cluster of traits they called the Dark Triad: narcissism, psychopathy, and Machiavellianism. The traits are present in many people not currently in jail or in therapy.
2002年，普哈斯博士和同事提出了一组性格特质，分别是自恋人格、心理变态和马基雅维利主义（又称权术主义），他们称之为“黑暗三性格”。在很多当前并未入狱或接受心理治疗的人身上，也可以表现出这些性格。
“It’s a taxonomy of personalities whom others rate as being obnoxious, people you deal with on an everyday basis,” Dr. Paulus said. He has been investigating if everyday sadism should be added to the cluster — a Dark Tetrad.
“这类性格，在其他人看来是十分可憎的，但你可能天天都会跟这种人打交道，”普哈斯说。他一直在研究日常施虐狂是否应当加入这组性格当中——成为“黑暗四性格”。