As the family’s Sunday morning pancake and bacon chef, I have long scorned my stove’s front-left burner for its inability to distribute heat evenly. My quest for uncharred bacon, I knew in my bones, would fail unless the gods dropped a Viking range in my lap.
作为家中每周日早餐煎饼和培根的主厨，我一直对自家炉台左前方那个散热不均的灶眼嗤之以鼻。我打心底里清楚，除非上天把维京公司（Viking Range，著名家用厨具制造商——译注）的厨具送到我怀里，否则我那找寻未烧糊培根之旅，必以失败而告终。
Deep breath. Yes, I’m that ignorant.
深吸一口气。是的，我就是那么无知。
And it’s not like I have an excuse. For years my wife has been telling me to treat our cookware with a little more respect, since a ruined pan can destroy food as readily as a bad stove. Not buying that logic, I asked three culinary specialists for advice on how to maintain and store pots and pans.
不是我在找借口。多年来，我的妻子一直教育我要尊重我们的厨具，因为一口坏掉的平底锅，会和一个糟糕的灶眼一样毁掉食物。我不信她那一套，就向三位烹饪专家请教，应该如何保养和储存汤锅和平底锅。
My panelists included Jacques Pépin, the renowned chef and author; Michelle Foss, Williams-Sonoma’s vice president for cookware; and Bruce Mattel, the Culinary Institute of America’s associate dean for food production.
我请到的专家，包括著名大厨和厨艺图书作者雅克·贝潘(Jacques Pépin)；威廉-索诺玛（Williams-Sonoma，一家美国烹饪用品连锁店——译注）厨具部副总裁米歇尔·福斯(Michelle Foss)；美国烹饪学院(Culinary Institute of America)食品生产部的副院长布鲁斯·马特尔(Bruce Mattel)。
Their counsel helped me save more than a few of the family’s cookware items from premature death, and it may have moved me one step closer to the bacon preparation Hall of Fame. Their advice also prompted me to spend a couple of days revamping a junky kitchen wall to match Mr. Pépin’s. But more on that later.
专家们的建议帮我挽救了不少家里的厨具，使它们免于“非正常死亡”，还让我离烹饪培根的“名人堂”又接近了一步。他们的建议还鼓舞我花了好几天时间，去修补一面破破烂烂的厨房墙壁，希望能与贝潘的相媲美。更多好戏还在后头。
The most important advice they offered was to pay close attention to the nuances of different cooking materials, whether it’s stainless steel, nonstick, cast iron or something less conventional. For novices like me, a pan is a pan. It gets hot, it burns things, it occasionally cooks food correctly and then it stares at me and demands pampering until I give it a cold bath and a cursory scrub with whatever hits my hand.
他们给我的最重要一条建议是，密切关注不同厨具在材质上的细微差别，比如是不锈钢、不沾锅、铸铁还是一些非常规的材质。对于像我这样的新手来说，一个平底锅就是一个平底锅。它会被加热，它能把菜烧糊，它偶尔也能正确地烹饪食物，然后就会瞪着我邀宠，我则会将它泡进冷水里，随手抓起个什么东西擦几下。
That backwoods, get-it-over-with-quick approach, Ms. Foss said, is one likely cause of my burned bacon. Quenching a hot pan, as is my habit, can cause a pan to warp, which can lead to hot spots. An abrasive sponge, meanwhile, can quickly strip the nonstick coating.
福斯告诉我，这样野蛮对待锅子，用完匆匆一擦，可能正是我的培根总被煎糊的原因之一。我这种让热锅冲冷水的习惯做法，会导致平底锅弯曲变形，从而出现“过热点”(hot spots)。而且，一块粗海绵块很快就会刮掉锅子的不沾涂层。
My panelists agreed that nonstick pans must be treated with kindness. Avoid metal utensils or anything else that might scrape the surface, Mr. Mattel said, and cook with only medium or low heat. “You want to avoid using it for pan roasting or high heat sautéing or deep frying,” he said. “Excessive heat will cause it to wear and discolor.”
我的专家们一致认为，必须温和地对待不粘锅。马特尔说，要避免锅子接触任何金属或其它会刮花其表面材质的东西；烹饪时用中火或小火加热。“你必须避免用它烤制食物，或高温炙烤或油炸食物，”他说，“温度过高会导致锅子磨损和掉色。”
Mr. Mattel said propellants used in aerosol cooking sprays can leave a residue on nonstick pans in particular. If that is a concern, he said, an oil mister is a good alternative.
马特尔还说，气溶胶质厨具清洁喷雾剂中的压缩气体尤其会在不粘锅上留下残留物。如果对此有所担心的话，喷油罐是个不错的替代品。
When it comes to cleaning these pans, Ms. Foss said that certain lines of nonstick cookware made by Calphalon are dishwasher safe, but most nonstick coatings are not. Ms. Foss and Mr. Mattel both suggested handwashing nonstick pans with a nonabrasive cleaner and a sponge, to preserve the nonstick coating.
提到如何清洗这些平底锅，福斯说，家富乐(Calphalon)品牌的一些不粘锅系列厨具是可以安心放进洗碗机的，但绝大多数不粘锅涂层不能如此处理。福斯和马特尔都建议用不磨损材料的洗碗布或海绵手洗不粘锅，以保护不粘锅涂层。
At my wife’s urging, I had been keeping a new nonstick pan clear of our dishwasher for the last few months, but when scrapes started appearing soon after we bought it, she suspected me.
应我妻子的要求，这几个月来，我一直都把我家新买的不粘锅放在洗碗机里洗。但当这只新锅上很快出现了划痕时，妻子怀疑是我的过错。
Mr. Mattel understood the real culprit. He said many people (ahem) stack their pans after cleaning them, without accounting for the scrapes that can result from the metal-on-metal contact. “It’s best if you don’t stack them, but if you do, just put a cloth between them,” he said.
马特尔清楚，谁是真正的罪魁祸首。他说，许多人（咳咳）洗好锅后，会把它们叠起来放置，没有考虑到金属和金属接触会造成刮伤。“最好不要叠起来放，如果一定要这样做，就在两只锅之间隔一层布吧。”他说。
Stainless steel pans are much more forgiving because they withstand high heat, resist scratching and can be tossed into the dishwasher and then stacked for storage. “But with a pure stainless steel pot, you want to avoid stacking, because the more the handles slam around, the more they can loosen, so you could have leakage,” Mr. Mattel said.
不锈钢锅就没有这么娇气，它们耐得了高温、不怕刮伤、可以扔进洗碗机、还能叠起来放。“但对于一口纯不锈钢锅，你还是应该避免叠放，因为四处碰撞越多，把手会变得越松，这样你的锅没准还会渗漏。”马特尔说。
Meanwhile, given the strength and durability of cast iron, I was surprised to learn that it requires more finesse than stainless steel. I would think nothing of tossing any food item in my house into our cast-iron skillet, which looks to be from the Civil War era. Mr. Mattel said it would be unwise to use such cookware for dishes like steamed vegetables, though, since water can lead to rust.
而鉴于铸铁的强度和耐久性，当我得知使用铸铁锅比用不锈钢锅更需技巧时，很是吃惊。我想当然地认为，我们那口看上去像是来自内战年代的铸铁锅，是什么食材都能对付的。马特尔则说，用这样的厨具来做蒸蔬菜是不明智的，因为水会令锅生锈。
How, then, does one avoid water when washing a cast-iron pan?
那么，清洗铸铁锅的时候又要怎么避免让它沾水呢？
By cleaning the surface like you would a grill.
答案是，用好似烧烤一样的办法清洁表面。
Ms. Foss said that many people who cook with cast iron forgo traditional soap and water cleaning, and instead wipe the surface with oil and then heat the pan in the oven to dry and sanitize it. Without endorsing this approach to sanitization, Ms. Foss said, “The assumption is, just like with a grill, you’re building up flavor and seasoning in the pan.”
福斯说，许多铸铁锅使用者抛弃了传统的清洁剂加水的洗涤方式，而是坚持用油擦拭表面，再放进烤箱加热，以烘干、消毒。福斯并不认可这样做可以消毒，她说，“这样做就和在烧烤是一样的，你是在锅子里调味呢。”
Mr. Mattel added that if the pan requires scrubbing, “use salt instead of something with harsh chemicals, because cast iron is on the porous side.”
马特尔补充说，如果锅子需要擦洗，“用盐代替那些有害的化学物质，因为铸铁在多孔的一面。”
Cast-iron pots coated with enamel are another matter. Ms. Foss said they’re best cleaned the conventional way, with soap and water. But Mr. Mattel said to watch for cracks or chips in the enamel. Water that makes it through those cracks could cause rusting.
如果铸铁锅的表面上了釉的话，又是另一回事儿了。福斯说，这样的锅最好用清洁剂加水的传统方式来清洗。但马特尔说，要小心釉面上的裂纹和缺口。如果釉上有裂纹，水洗就会令里面的铁生锈。
Among the many dozens of pots and pans in Mr. Pépin’s kitchen, in rural Connecticut, were many with aluminum or copper surfaces. On a recent afternoon, he picked up a steel pan in which he had made at least 40 omelets a day in one of his early jobs. “The biggest secret to a good pot is to use it over and over again,” he said. Various types of pans, he said, will react to the elements if they are left unused for too long. Aluminum and copper are two good examples.
在贝潘位于康涅狄格州(Connecticut)乡间的家里，有各式各样的汤锅和平底锅，许多锅具都是铝质或铜质表面的。最近，有一天中午，他拿起一口不锈钢平底锅（他在早年间干过的工作之一，就是用这口锅一天做出40个煎蛋卷）。“锅子好用的最大秘诀就是——一直用。”他说。如果锅子长时间不用，材质中的化学元素就会被还原、析出。铝和铜就是两个好例子。 
One way to increase the likelihood of using them is to store them in the open. Some favor pot racks hung from the ceiling, but Mr. Pépin hangs several dozen pots and pans on a wall that he covered with barn siding. “I believe there is a great deal of aesthetic value in pots,” he said.
有一个增加锅子使用率的法子，那就是，把它们摆在外面。一些人喜欢把锅吊在天花板上，但贝潘就把他那好几打锅子挂在自己打造的一面谷仓墙板上。“我相信这些锅子极具美学价值。”他说。
Returning home, I remembered a few Le Creuset pots that we had accumulated through the years that would not look bad on a wall. So the next day, I visited a reclaimed-lumber dealer and found a stack of hemlock wood salvaged from a 100-year-old barn in Massachusetts.
回到家，我想起我家这些年来也积攒了不少法国酷彩(Le Creuset)锅，把它们挂在墙上，效果应该也不错。于是第二天，我就去拜访了一家木材回收商，找到一大堆用马萨诸塞州100年前的谷仓木头压制的铁衫木木料。
Mr. Pépin had attached a layer of thick black paper behind the wood, so the gaps in the wood wouldn’t reveal the wall’s original surface. My hemlock had a weathered gray look, so I laid a sheet of gray landscape fabric on the wall.
贝潘在木头后面垫了一层黑色的厚纸，这样一来，木头的缝隙就不会暴露出墙面本来的颜色。我买回来的铁衫木是灰色的，所以我在墙上垫了一层灰色风景图案的织物。
I then used a stud finder to mark the studs, and set to the task of cutting the wood with a circular saw. My wood dealer offered invaluable advice that seasoned carpenters know well: measure the span of the wall before cutting each plank. Older houses like mine will settle, and even tiny settling will result in mismatched dimensions on a given surface. (There was a nearly one-inch difference between my wall’s top and bottom planks.)
我用冲击钻上寻找钉子位置的辅助装置来给钉子做记号，用圆锯来切割木材。我的木材经销商向我提供了一个每位经验丰富的木匠都知道的宝贵意见：切割每块木板之前，先量一量墙的宽度。像我家这种老房子会有沉降，哪怕是很微小的沉降，都会导致给定的平面尺寸不匹配（我家墙面顶部和底部之间的宽度有一英寸的差异）。
Of course, 100-year-old barn lumber is often less than perfectly square, so even though I cut the planks to the proper length, the varying width of each plank made assembly difficult. (Halfway through the wall I needed to remove and reinstall planks because they were slanted.) If you try this project, use a level to correct such problems before the screws go in.
当然，百年木料恐怕无法做到完全平整方正，所以尽管我锯下来的每块木板长度都很合适，每块木板的宽度都不同，仍给拼接带来很大的难度（拼到一半，我又得把它们都拿下来重新来过，因为拼斜了）。如果你要尝试这项工程，可以用一把水平尺来避免发生这类问题。
It took me around eight hours to cut and attach the boards — probably twice as long as a carpenter would have needed. Later, I screwed ceiling hooks into the wall, to hang the pots and pans, using heavier hooks for the cast-iron items. With only around a dozen pots in our cooking arsenal, we added a handful of forged steel leaves to fill in blanks.
我花了大约8小时做好这面墙板——可能是一位木匠所需用时的两倍。随后，我在墙上钉了一些吊灯钩，用来挂汤锅和平底锅，再用粗一些的钩子挂铸铁锅。我家的厨具“军火库”里只有大概12口锅，于是我们就在墙面上加了些锻钢做的叶子，来填补空白。
The wall not only looked exponentially better than the previous version, but we had also increased our meager storage space and, presumably, extended the lives of our cookware.
这面墙不仅比之前看起来棒多了，还增加了我们的储物空间，想必也有助于我们的炊具延长使用寿命吧。
Now, for a little bacon.
现在，且让我做上一小块培根。