What’s new in contemporary art? Old. We’re in an age of remake culture, an epidemic of re-enactment fever. Young painters are working in styles that were hot half a century ago. Yesteryear’s performance art is being re-performed. Exhibitions that have been done and done — on Matisse, Picasso, European abstraction — are being done again.
当今艺术的最新动态是什么？是回归传统。我们处在一个文化翻新的年代，患上了热衷重演历史的流行病。年轻画家们正在用半个世纪前热门的风格作画。去年的表演艺术现在就在重演。相似的展览反复举行，比如关于马蒂斯(Matisse)、毕加索(Picasso)和欧洲抽象艺术的展览。
Has the art industry, noted for its nanosecond memory, suddenly become history-conscious? Is the art market, like Hollywood, nervous about anything but proven brands? Is art just plain out of ideas? Whatever the answer, the replicants keep arriving, a recent and particularly ambitious one being an ultrafastidious reconstruction of the 1969 show “When Attitudes Become Form,” at the Prada Foundation in Venice.
一向以健忘闻名的艺术产业突然之间有了历史意识？艺术市场像好莱坞一样，对任何没有名气的东西都感到紧张不安吗？艺术真的才思枯竭了吗？不管答案是什么，复制展览仍纷至沓来，最近格外有野心的一次展览是威尼斯普拉达基金会对1969年“当态度成为形式”(When Attitudes Become Form)展览的极其细致的重现。
The original version, which took place in Bern, Switzerland, has a near-mythical reputation as a late-20th-century landmark. It brought together some of the most adventurous young European and American avant-gardists of the day, exponents of post-Pop, post-Minimalist, supposedly anti-market trends like Conceptual and Process art. It presented them at a high moment of political and cultural turmoil internationally, and in what has been perceived as a radically loosened-up exhibition format, with art created communally, spontaneously, on the spot.
原来的那场展览是在瑞士伯尔尼举办的，是20世纪下半叶的一场标志性展览，具有近乎神话的地位。它把当时最有冒险精神的一些欧美年轻先锋艺术家汇集到了一起，展示了后流行主义、后极简主义以及一些反市场潮流，比如概念艺术和过程艺术。当时正值国际政治、文化动荡的高潮时期，它以极端松散的形式，来展示那些在现场进行集体、即兴创作的艺术。
The actual event was fairly low-key. Bern was no one’s idea of an art capital. The exhibition site, a kunsthalle built in 1918, was drably undistinguished. The show opened in the gray month of March, ran for barely a month and drew only a small, bemused crowd.
那场活动实际上非常低调。伯尔尼在任何人眼里都不是艺术之都。展览场地是1918年建成的一个艺术馆，平凡乏味，毫无特色。那场展览在灰色的3月举办，展出了不到一个月，观众不多，而且感到看不懂。
Puzzlement was understandable. The work, by almost 70 artists, jammed into two floors and a nearby annex, wasn’t quite sculpture and certainly wasn’t painting. Its mediums included ice, fire, broken glass, lead, leather, felt, fluorescent tubing, peas, charcoal and margarine. Ropes snaked through rooms; electric wires wound down a staircase. Nothing was framed or on pedestals or behind stanchions, and visitors trampled on work, though it was hard to tell where the art ended and the damage began.
迷惑是可以理解的。差不多70位艺术家的作品挤在两层楼和一个附楼里，那些作品算不上是雕塑，也绝不是绘画。它们的材质是冰、火、碎玻璃、铅、皮、毡子、荧光灯管、豌豆、木炭和人造黄油。绳子蜿蜒穿过各个房间；电线沿着楼梯盘旋而下。没有什么东西是裱在框里或者放在基座或支架上的，游客们踩到作品上，不过很难判断艺术与破坏的界限在哪里。
Some damage was art. A piece by the American “earth artist” Michael Heizer consisted of craters punched with a wrecking ball into the pavement outside the museum. While popular reaction over all ranged from grumpiness to hilarity, officialdom took a more serious view. Certain kunsthalle staff members were so outraged that they effectively forced the resignation of the institution’s director, Harald Szeemann, who was also the exhibition’s curator.
有的破坏就是艺术。美国“地球艺术家”迈克尔·黑泽尔(Michael Heizer)在艺术馆外的人行道上用粉碎球砸出很多坑，构成了他的作品。尽管公众的反应从抱怨到欢喜，各不相同，官方的立场却更严肃。艺术馆的某些管理人员非常愤怒，迫使馆长、那次展览的策展人哈拉尔德·齐曼(Harald Szeemann)辞职。
Too late. Word had spread through the art world. The show — its full title was “Live in Your Head: When Attitudes Become Form: Works, Concepts, Processes, Situations, Information” — was instant history, a radical moment.
太晚了。消息已经在艺术界传开了。这次展览成了瞬间创造的，成了一个激进的时刻。这次展览的全名叫“生活在你的头脑中：当态度成为形式：艺术品、概念、过程、状况、信息”(Live in Your Head: When Attitudes Become Form: Works, Concepts, Processes, Situations, Information)。
It is partly as a monument, an artifact, that the Prada Foundation has remade the exhibition, laboriously tracking down existing art, commissioning artists to recreate pieces and asking the estates of deceased artists to supply duplicates of lost or fragile work.
普拉达基金会从某种程度上是把那次展览当成一个纪念品或手工艺品来重现它，不辞辛苦地寻找留存下来的作品，花钱请艺术家们再次创作那些作品，要求已故艺术家们的遗产委员会提供已遗失的或易碎作品的复制品。
This harvesting could, on its own, have been an enlightening archival exercise or merely a bore. In any event, the three people in charge of the Prada project — the curator Germano Celant, who worked with Szeemann in 1969; the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas; and the German artist Thomas Demand, who photographs full-scale architectural sculptures made from paper. They decided not only to reassemble the contents, but also to recreate the physical context, the kunsthalle galleries, inside the Prada Foundation’s Venetian premises: an 18th-century palazzo, Ca’ Corner Della Regina, on the Grand Canal.
这个收集过程本身可能是一次具有启发意义的档案整理工作，也可能只是一件无聊的事。不管怎样，负责普拉达展览的三个人决定不仅要重新集合那些作品，还要在普拉达基金会的威尼斯办公大楼里再建那个艺术馆。这三个人分别是策展人格尔马诺·塞朗(Germano Celant)，1969年他曾和齐曼共事；荷兰建筑师雷姆·库哈斯(Rem Koolhaas)；德国艺术家托马斯·德曼德(Thomas Demand)，他拍摄实物大小的纸质建筑雕塑。普拉达基金会的威尼斯办公大楼是大运河上的一座18世纪的宫殿，名叫Ca’ Corner Della Regina。
So they have, in “When Attitudes Become Form: Bern 1969/Venice 2013,” which combines wonkish verisimilitude with strategic imprecision. The Bern galleries have been reconstructed on exact one-to-one scale within the palazzo, but are spread over three floors, rather than two, as in Bern. In addition, the kunsthalle annex, the Schulwarte, which in 1969 held work that arrived too late for the main show, has been reimagined as a loftlike space on a fourth floor.
在“当态度成为形式：伯尔尼1969/威尼斯2013”(When Attitudes Become Form: Bern 1969/Venice 2013)中，他们既死板地还原作品，也容忍某些难以避免的不精确。他们在那座宫殿内部按照原始尺寸重建了伯尔尼艺术馆，但是分散在3层上，而不是像伯尔尼艺术馆那样是2层。另外，艺术馆的附属建筑Schulwarte在1969年展示那些到达太晚、不能参加主展览的作品，这个附属建筑被设想为4层的一个类似loft的空间。
And while details of the Bern galleries — door frames, floor designs, all-over white paint, even radiators — have been copied, the gallery walls are treated like stage flats, with their edges cut out as if with a jigsaw, to accommodate the palazzo’s ornate columns and cornices. Also, the inserted galleries have no ceilings: Look up and you see 18th-century Italian arches and frescoes.
虽然伯尔尼展厅的一些细节得到了复制，比如门框、地板花纹、全白的喷漆，甚至包括暖气片，但是对展厅的墙的处理方法像是对待舞台上的布景房间，墙的边缘被线锯切掉，以适应宫殿的装饰廊柱和檐口。另外，这些套在大楼里的展厅没有天花板：抬起头，你会看到18世纪的意大利拱顶和壁画。
Within this setting, Mr. Celant, guided by memory and photographs, has installed each piece of art in the precise spot it occupied 44 years ago. When an item is absent, its place is marked on the wall or floor. Among the few works entirely missing are those like Mr. Heizer’s, which physically disrupted the kunsthalle exterior or the area around it. At the same time, the Prada’s nesting of architecture inside architecture is itself a disruption, and a clever one. It turns replication into a form of rethinking about art past and present, and about how myths are made.
塞朗根据记忆和照片，在这个布景中，把每件艺术品准确地放在它44年前的位置上。如果哪件艺术品缺失，它的位置就被标记在墙上或地板上。几件完全丢失的作品中包括黑泽尔的作品，它就是从物理上破坏艺术馆的外部或周围的区域。与此同时，普拉达在建筑物里面套嵌建筑物，本身就是一种破坏，而且是很聪明的一种破坏。它把复制变成了对艺术的过去和现在以及神话是如何造就的重新思考。
We can see, for example, that the show’s reputation as improvisatory and chaotic is ill founded. The planning was careful. Certain galleries were focused on older figures, like Joseph Beuys and Edward Kienholz, who could be seen as progenitors of the younger artists. A space was assigned to classical Minimalists and Conceptualists, like Carl Andre and Sol LeWitt. A contingent of Arte Povera artists, mostly Italian, had a space of their own. The largest gallery of all held a concentration of young Americans: Eva Hesse, Keith Sonnier, Alan Saret and Walter De Maria (who died last month) among them.
比如说，我们能看到，那场展览即兴和混乱的特点没有得到很好的体现。这场展览计划得非常仔细。有些展厅集中展示更老的一些人物，比如约瑟夫·博伊斯(Joseph Beuys)和爱德华·金霍兹(Edward Kienholz)，他们可以被看做是年轻艺术家的前辈。有一个展厅被分配给经典极简派艺术家和概念派艺术家，比如卡尔·安德烈(Carl Andre)和索尔·勒维特(Sol LeWitt)。贫穷艺术(Arte Povera)的艺术家大多是意大利人，他们也有自己的展厅。最大的展厅集中展示年轻的美国艺术家：伊娃·海瑟(Eva Hesse)、基思·索尼尔(Keith Sonnier)、艾伦·萨雷特(Alan Saret)和沃尔特·德·玛利亚（Walter De Maria，他上个月去世了）等。
Nor was the show politically radical. Little of the work was topical. The artists were almost exclusively white and Euro-American. Only three — Hesse, Jo Ann Kaplan and Hanne Darboven — were women. In addition, far from being a countercultural bootstrap affair, the show floated on a cloud of money. A selection of documents displayed on the Prada foundation’s ground floor reveals that Philip Morris, the tobacco company, footed a chunk of the bill, in an early example of big business wearing avant-garde art as a feather in its cap.
这次展览在政治上也不激进。几乎没有哪个作品与时政相关。其中的艺术家们几乎全是欧裔美国白人。只有三位女性：海瑟、乔·安·卡普兰(Jo Ann Kaplan)和汉内·道波温(Hanne Darboven)。另外，这场展览远不是反主流文化、利用最少资源举办的活动，而是用钱堆出来的。陈列在普拉达基金会大楼一层的几份文件表明，菲利普莫里斯(Philip Morris)烟草公司出了一大笔钱，这是大公司用先锋艺术往自己脸上贴金的又一新鲜例子。
This is a routine public relations arrangement today. The Prada exhibition — and indeed many other products of remake culture — can be taken as a prize example of it, a pricey cultural stunt that serves to burnish a corporate reputation. Does that devalue the show entirely? No. I learned a lot from it.
今天有个例行的公关活动安排。普拉达展览是个非常典型的用以提升公司声誉的昂贵文化噱头，很多文化翻新之作莫不如此。这么做会降低整个展览的价值吗？不会。我从中明白了很多。
I learned about the value — the dollar value and, you might say, the spiritual value — of myth. I learned that Szeemann’s show, enshrined by history, now re-enshrined by Prada, was not quite the avant-garde ideal it was cracked up to be. Rather, it was the end of that idea and the beginning of another. It was the end of a brief, illusory effort by art to create an existential economy outside the market, and the beginning of art business as we know it now.
我明白了神话的价值——经济价值，也许还包括精神价值。齐曼的展览在历史上已被奉如神明，如今再次被普拉达奉若神明。我明白那次展览并不像它被吹捧的那样，是先锋派的完美展览。相反，它是那种理念的终结，是另一种理念的开端。它终结的是艺术界短暂、虚幻的努力，想在市场之外创立一种存在主义的经济形式，它开启的是我们现在所知道的艺术经济。
And I learned a lot from seeing the early, and in most cases best, work of various artists I love, and seeing them in a context of intimate conversation. (The catalog, with hundreds of photographs of artists installing work in Bern in 1969, is the show’s most moving element.) I was reminded that, although packaged, sold and cryogenically preserved over time, this work was once tough, one-off, art-questioning, refusenik attitude and expansive thinking. So were the people who made it. So are some artists still.
在看到我热爱的艺术家们早期的、在多数情况下也是最好的作品时，看着它们处于一种亲密对话的环境中时，我明白了很多（展览目录中有好几百幅照片，展示了1969年艺术家们在伯尔尼安装自己作品时的情形，这是此次展览中最动人的元素）。我想到，这件作品虽然被打包了，被卖掉了，被低温保存了，但是它曾经是粗糙的、一次性的、质疑艺术的、拒绝合作的、开拓思路的。创造它的人也是如此。有些艺术家现在依然如此。
You are reminded of that in Venice, and — though I don’t want to get romantic — it restores your faith.
你会想到，在威尼斯——我不想说得那么煽情——它修复你的信仰。