ON Wednesday, two days before Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philippines, I assigned the short story “Fredo Avila,” by Gina Apostol, to my introduction to literature class at Ateneo de Manila University. It’s set in the writer’s hometown, Barugo, in the eastern province of Leyte.
周三，台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)袭击菲律宾的两天前，我在马尼拉雅典耀大学(Ateneo de Manila University)我的文学导读课上把吉娜·阿波斯托尔(Gina Apostol)的短篇小说《弗雷多·阿维拉》(Fredo Avila)布置给学生。小说以作者的家乡菲律宾东部莱特省的巴鲁戈作为场景。
In the story, a tough boxer, Fredo, and a boy who idolizes him, Danilo, both long to leave their poor small town in Leyte. They find themselves irrevocably changed after they depart for Manila and then America, and then choose, months later, to return to Leyte. At the end of the story, Danilo vomits uncontrollably, wracked by a horrible illness. The neighborhood healer declares his ailment “the spirit of absence” and advises, “He needs to rest, to see his world again as if he had never left.”
在小说中，强壮的拳击手弗雷多和崇拜他的小男孩达尼洛(Danilo)都渴望离开他们莱特省的贫穷小镇。他们先去了马尼拉，然后到了美国，几个月以后又选择回到莱特，经过这一切，他们意识到自身已发生了不可逆转的变化。在故事的结尾处，达尼洛患上了一种可怕的疾病，遭受病痛折磨的他不停地呕吐。家附近的治疗师宣称，他的病是因为“失魂落魄”所造成的，并建议，“他需要休息，再次认识他的世界，就好像他从未离开过。”
My students and I wrestled with this final line. What could it mean? Perhaps Danilo was momentarily possessed by a spirit, a tormenting demon, named “absence.” I finally had to admit to my students that I had no clear answer for them. I am still struggling for an answer.
我和学生们都在苦苦琢磨文章的最后一句。它到底会是什么意思呢？也许达尼洛突然被某种幽灵、某种给人带来痛苦的恶魔所控制，它名叫失落。我最后不得不向我的学生们承认，我无法给他们一个明确的答案。而现在我还是找不到一个合适的答案。
Now I am also struggling with whether and how Leyte can endure after the typhoon killed some 10,000 people in Tacloban, the province’s capital, alone.
现在同样令我无法作答的是，这场台风袭击莱特后，该地区是否能够承受这样的打击，又将如何应对，毕竟仅其省会塔克洛班就有约一万人死亡。
On Friday, I closed my front windows for the first time in Quezon City, which is the nation’s most populous city and adjoins Manila, the capital. I have always kept my windows open, which have bars over them, to cool the living room, but that day a hot wind picked up the curtains and made my hanging lamp sway. I had the urge to go out into the storm, to see if it was really so terrible, but the Metro Manila Development Authority had already warned us all to stay inside.
周五，我第一次关上了我在奎松城住所的窗户。奎松城是菲律宾人口最稠密的城市，紧邻首都马尼拉。我的窗户装了防盗栏，我总是敞着它好让客厅凉快一点儿。但在那一天，一阵热风卷起窗帘，让我的吊灯左右摇摆。我当时很想走进暴风雨中看看，它是否真有那么可怕，但马尼拉大都会发展委员会(Metro Manila Development Authority)已警告所有人留在室内。
Later, I saw that Typhoon Haiyan’s winds had already shattered nearly every window of every building in Tacloban, a few hundred miles southeast of me. I didn’t have any tape for my own windows, and it was too late to shop. (Luckily, I didn’t need it; the typhoon did not hit Manila, though we worry that it’s only a matter of time before another one does.)
后来我发现，台风“海燕”带来的大风几乎已经打碎了我东南方向几百英里外塔克洛班每一栋建筑物的每一扇窗户。我没有胶带来加固我的窗户，那时买也已太晚。（幸运的是，我也用不到；台风并没有袭击马尼拉，虽然我们都担心另一场台风迟早会袭击这里。）
On my laptop, I wrote to my panicked father in California to tell him I was safe. Then I wrote a reassuring post on Facebook. Some 10 million Filipinos work abroad, and over 30 million citizens here use Facebook, typing out updates and comments from Internet cafes in even the poorest neighborhoods. Status updates help to mediate the pain of absence and diaspora, as loved ones earn higher salaries elsewhere, hoping to help build stronger, storm-resistant lives back home. In an archipelago stricken by intractable poverty and terrifying storms, it makes sense for many people to leave. Just about everyone here is marked in some way by the disconnection of migration.
我用笔记本电脑给我在加利福尼亚的父亲写信，告诉惊慌失措的他我很平安。然后我在Facebook上发了报平安的帖子。约1000万菲律宾人在海外工作，有超过3000万居住在国内的菲律宾人使用Facebook，他们在网吧里发布最新情况和评论，即便是最贫穷的社区也是如此。他们所爱的人在他乡赚着较高的薪水，希望以此帮助家乡创造一个更强大、能够抵御暴风雨的生活环境，这些状态更新贴帮助安抚了这些人的失落和流散海外之痛。在这样一个饱受难以根除的贫穷和可怕的暴风雨折磨的群岛国家，对许多人来说，离开是明智之举。这里几乎每一个人都从某种程度上受到了迁徙所带来的割裂影响。
My mother sent me an email and Skype video message from Canada. She grew up in Manila accustomed to storms; her family’s apartment would flood each year. She left for a safer life. Now I’m the only one of her children living here. The storms are worse than when she was here. I left a Skype reply, telling my mother that I was fine and would be back in the classroom soon. I didn’t mention the reports that another storm might be on its way, taking nearly the same path Typhoon Haiyan took.
母亲从加拿大给我发来邮件和Skype视频信息。她在马尼拉长大，对暴风雨习以为常，她家里的房子曾经每年都会被淹。为了寻求更安全的生活，她离开了。如今，我是她唯一还住在这里的孩子。暴风雨比她在的时候还要严重。我通过Skype留言，告诉母亲我很好，很快就会开始上课。我没有提到有报道说，另一场暴风雨可能即将到来，行进路线几乎与台风“海燕”一样。
My next-door neighbor, Herbert Docena, is a doctoral candidate in sociology, studying the impact of climate change. Whenever I visit him, he is typing in front of a huge computer monitor, surrounded by books on the world’s changing weather. Then he stops to keep me company and make me something to eat. He’s always checking in on me, concerned that I live alone. He helps translate when my Tagalog isn’t good enough for routine errands (my mother raised me in California and didn’t think I’d ever need to know her native language).
我的邻居赫伯特·多森纳(Herbert Docena)是社会学的博士研究生，主要研究气候变化的影响。每当我去找他的时候，他都在一个巨大的电脑显示器前打字，周围摆满了有关全球天气变化的书籍。他会停下来陪我，为我做些吃的。考虑到我独居一人，他总会询问我的情况。当我的他加禄语不够好（我母亲在加利福尼亚将我抚养长大，她觉得我永远都不需要懂她的母语），无法应付日常琐事的时候，他会帮我翻译。
This weekend, Herbert was in Warsaw for the annual United Nations talks on climate change. He posted on Facebook: “Until now, we still haven’t heard from my aunt and her small daughter and her husband, and other cousins, in Tacloban. And I’m here so far away unable to do anything, even just to comfort my mother...
赫伯特那个周末在华沙参加联合国一年一度的气候变化会议。他在Facebook上发布消息称，“直到现在，我们还没有我姨妈及其小女儿和丈夫的消息，也不知道其他住在塔克洛班的同辈亲属的情况。我与她们相隔万里，什么忙都帮不上，甚至都无法安慰我的母亲……”
“And then, preparing for the UN climate change negotiations that I’m observing here in the coming days, I keep hearing what so many U.S. and other developed-country negotiators have been telling me in my interviews all these years: that they can’t be held responsible, that they can’t be morally obliged to do anything.”
“未来几天我将在这里观察联合国气候变化谈判，然后在做准备的时候，我不断听到的观点也是如此多的美国和其他发达国家谈判代表这些年在与我的访谈中一直在说的话：他们不应承担责任，在道义上也没有义务做任何事。”
Herbert posted some good news later: His aunt, grandmother and cousins were found safe. But their home in Tacloban was completely destroyed by the storm surge.
赫伯特后来发布了几条好消息，她的姨妈、祖母及同辈亲属都很安全。但他们在塔克洛班的家已被风暴彻底摧毁了。
On Sunday night, I finally opened my windows again. I prepared my lessons for class the next day, our first day back since the typhoon, thinking about how to return to “Fredo Avila” and my students. Many of them are from regions whose names spell devastation: Leyte, Cebu, Bicol. I left messages on our class Facebook groups, asking them to contact me if they needed time off.
周日晚间，我终于再次打开窗户。周一是台风过后回学校上课的第一天，我为此备了课，考虑如何再次讨论《弗雷多·阿维拉》，如何再和学生们见面。我的学生当中有很多人来自莱特、宿务和比科尔半岛，这些都是备受打击的地区。我在我们Facebook班级群中留言说，如果他们需要请假，请他们联系我。
I stepped outside and looked at the sky. It was calm, with a thin cloud layer colored a strange, dark pink. There were lights on in another neighbor’s house. I knew if I visited, he would offer me something to eat, even near midnight. I stood still, looking at the light, letting myself feel the peace, and the absence of the storm, for a moment longer.
我走到室外，望着天空。天空非常宁静，薄薄的云层染上了奇异的深粉色。另一个邻居的房子里也亮着灯。我知道如果我去拜访，他会为我弄些吃的，即便是在接近午夜的时分。我静静地站着，望着那灯光，让自己感受这种宁静，还有远离风暴的感觉，哪怕只有一刻。