WASHINGTON — The day started early. Four of us from the Washington bureau were part of a team set to interview President-elect Donald J. Trump over lunch at The New York Times headquarters in Manhattan. Our first step? Get to New York.
华盛顿——那一天，我早早起床。来自华盛顿分社的我们四个人是一个团队的成员，要在午餐期间采访候任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。采访地点定在位于曼哈顿的《纽约时报》总部。我们的第一步？当然是去纽约了。
Our plan was easy: Take Amtrak’s 8 a.m. Acela, the high speed train from D.C. to New York Penn Station, and walk eight blocks up 8th Avenue to the Times building. The train was scheduled to arrive shortly before 11 a.m., well ahead of the 1 p.m. start to the luncheon interview. We planned to strategize on the train about potential questions and follow-ups for Mr. Trump, and could write on our laptops if other news broke that morning.
我们的计划很简单：搭乘美铁(Amtrak)早上8点从华盛顿特区开往纽约宾夕法尼亚站的高铁阿西乐(Acela)，再沿着第八大道步行八个街区到达时报大厦。火车计划于上午11点之前到站，远早于下午1点开始的午餐采访。针对可能会向特朗普提出的问题及需要跟进的内容，我们打算在车上制定好策略。如果上午出现其他突发新闻，我们也能在笔记本电脑上写稿。
Then Mr. Trump tweeted at 6:16 a.m.:
结果，特朗普早上6点16分发了一条推文：
Donald J. Trump(@realDonaldTrump)：I cancelled today's meeting with the failing @nytimes when the terms and conditions of the meeting were changed at the last moment. Not nice.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump@realDonaldTrump)：我取消了今天和失败的@nytimes的会面，因为他们在最后一刻更改了会议相关条款。这可不太好。
A flurry of emails ensued. “Really? Is this fake news? It matters for what outfit I choose,” wrote Julie Hirschfeld Davis, a fellow White House correspondent.
一连串的电子邮件接踵而至。“是真的吗？是不是假新闻？这关系到我选什么衣服，”另一名白宫记者朱莉·赫希菲尔德·戴维斯(Julie Hirschfeld Davis)写道。
“At least he had the good manners to do it before we got on the train!” wrote Mark Landler, another member of our White House team.
“至少他是礼貌地在我们上火车之前这么做的！”我们白宫团队的另一名成员马克·兰德勒(Mark Landler)写道。
Eventually, there was a decision. We would all cancel our train tickets and regroup at the bureau, two blocks from the White House. (That proved to be a fateful move.) “Dean says meeting definitely canceled,” Elisabeth Bumiller, the Washington bureau chief, emailed.
最后，我们做出了决定。所有人都把火车票退掉，在距离白宫两个街区的分社碰面。（事后证明，这是一个灾难性的举动。）“迪恩（指时报执行主编迪恩·巴奎[Dean Baquet]——编注）说会议明确取消，”华盛顿分社社长伊丽莎白·巴米勒(Elisabeth Bumiller)在电子邮件里说。
Elisabeth and I got to the bureau early and turned our attention to a morning television appearance by one of Mr. Trump’s senior advisers suggesting that the president-elect no longer wanted to pursue charges against Hillary Clinton, a change from his heated rhetoric during the campaign. Mark and Julie worked from home, shifting to what passes for a traditional workday in the postelection period.
伊丽莎白和我早早到了分社，并把注意力放在了特朗普的一名高级顾问亮相的一档早间电视节目上。这名顾问称，候任总统不再希望起诉希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。这有别于特朗普在竞选期间的激烈言辞。在家办公的马克和朱莉也转移了注意力，以为这是大选结束后一个平淡无奇的工作日。
And then, at 9:13 a.m., came an email from our publisher’s executive assistant: “Updated Invitation: It’s still happening.” Arthur Sulzberger Jr., The Times’s publisher, had apparently contacted Mr. Trump’s office and convinced him to reconsider. Mr. Trump later tweeted (at 10:40 a.m.): “The meeting with the @nytimes is back on.”
然后，上午9点13分，我们出版人的行政助理发来了一封电子邮件：“最新邀请：仍按计划进行。”时报的出版人小阿瑟·苏兹伯格(Arthur Sulzberger Jr.)似乎联系了特朗普的办公室，并说服他重新考虑。后来，特朗普（上午10点40分）发推文说：“恢复与《纽约时报》的会面。”
What followed was a logistical nightmare: How could we get from Washington to New York in time to meet with Mr. Trump? I logged onto the American Airlines website to no avail; the site wouldn’t book a flight with less than an hour before departure. Mark had similar trouble. Julie, though, had better luck: She called our travel service and got a seat on a plane, and was soon in a cab to Reagan National Airport.
接下来的事情，是一场组织安排上的噩梦：我们怎么才能及时从华盛顿赶到纽约，与特朗普见面？我登陆美国航空公司(American Airlines)的网站，但因网站不提供起飞前一小时内的订票服务而一无所获。马克遇到的难题类似。不过朱莉的运气好一些：她给我们的旅行社打电话，买到了一张机票，很快便坐上了开往里根国际机场的出租车。
Elisabeth and I jumped into a cab at 9:30 as Nicholas Fandos, the bureau’s intrepid clerk, called the travel service to book us tickets on the 10 a.m. Acela, which was scheduled to get into New York at 12:48 p.m. A $20 cab ride later, and with minutes to spare, we boarded the train. Julie made her flight thanks to a 40-minute delay at the airport. Mark, who lives further out in Chevy Chase, got stuck in Washington.
9点30分，分社勇敢无畏的员工尼古拉斯·凡多斯(Nicholas Fandos)打电话给旅行社，为伊丽莎白和我订到了上午10点发车、预计于中午12点48分抵达纽约的车票后，我们匆匆上了一辆出租车。花20美元打车到车站后，离发车只剩下几分钟。我们上了车。多亏机场出现了40分钟的延误，朱莉也赶上了飞机。住在更远的切维蔡斯的马克则被困在了华盛顿。
Our plans for polishing our interview approach fell by the wayside. Elisabeth and I prioritized 10 questions and emailed them to Julie and to Maggie Haberman, our New York-based White House correspondent, who managed to print them out just before the interview started.
我们完善采访方式的计划被扔至一边。伊丽莎白和我确定了10个问题的优先顺序，并通过电子邮件把它们发给了朱莉和本报驻纽约的白宫记者玛吉·哈伯曼(Maggie Haberman)。哈伯曼赶在采访开始的前一刻将它们打印了出来。
The Acela pulled into Penn Station a few minutes late, arriving at 12:55 p.m. We bounded up the escalators, across the plaza to Eighth Avenue and 33rd Street and started jogging. By the time we reached 36th street, a cab pulled up to let someone off. Elisabeth and I jumped in, hoping that it might be faster. It wasn’t. At 39th Street, as the interview with Mr. Trump started, we handed over another $20 bill, jumped out and started running again.
阿西乐抵达宾夕法尼亚站的时间是中午12点55分，晚了几分钟。我们跳上自动扶梯，穿过通往第八大道和33街的广场，并开始小跑。跑到36街时，一辆出租车停车下客。伊丽莎白和我跳上出租车，希望这样或许能更快一些。但事与愿违。到39街时，因为对特朗普的采访已经开始了，我们递给司机20美元后下了车，又开始跑了起来。
At the Times building, the elevators were crowded and slow. After a maddening ride to the 16th floor (and a quick screening by the Secret Service), Elisabeth and I entered the boardroom, about eight minutes late.
到了时报大楼，电梯拥挤不堪，运行速度缓慢。搭乘令人抓狂的电梯上到16层（并迅速通过特勤局[Secret Service]的检查）后，伊丽莎白和我在迟到大约八分钟后走进了董事会会议室。
Meanwhile, Julie was having her own delays. After landing on time at La Guardia Airport, she hopped into a cab, bound for the office. That worked until traffic — perhaps made even worse than usual because of Mr. Trump’s motorcade — ground to a halt at 37th Street, along with Julie’s cab.
与此同时，朱莉那边也出现了延误。按时在拉瓜迪亚机场落地后，她迅速坐上一辆出租车往办公室赶。起初一切顺利，直到包括她乘坐的出租车在内的车流在37街停住不动了。或许是因为特朗普的车队的原因，当时的交通甚至比平时更糟糕。
She arrived at the interview a few minutes after Elisabeth and me, but in time to ask Mr. Trump about Stephen K. Bannon, the president-elect’s choice for chief White House strategist. “I apologize for my delayed flight,” she told the president-elect.
她比伊丽莎白和我晚几分钟到达采访现场，还是赶上了向特朗普提问，问题是关于被他选为白宫首席策略师的史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)的。“抱歉，我的航班晚点了，”她对候任总统说。
After the lunch, and Mr. Trump’s departure, Julie, Elisabeth and I hunkered down in the boardroom to write. Initially, the spread of food (salmon, beef tenderloin, frisée salad, barley salad with dried fruit) remained, but it was quickly cleaned up and taken away.
吃完午饭，且特朗普也离开后，朱莉、伊丽莎白和我趴在董事会会议室的桌子上开始写稿。起初，桌上摊开的吃的（三文鱼、牛里脊、生菜沙拉和水果干大麦沙拉）还在，但很快，它们就被清理走了。
Shortly after 7:30 p.m., stories mostly finished, the three of us packed up and headed for the third-floor newsroom to check in. Dean Baquet, the paper’s executive editor, had “a few small thoughts,” most of which were fairly painless. Editors checked quotes in the story against the interview transcript, which was finally completed.
晚上7点30分刚过，报道基本写好了。我们三个收拾好东西，去三楼的编辑部报到。报社的执行主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)有“一些小想法”，大部分都很轻松。编辑们对照着终于完工的采访文字记录检查了报道中的引语。
Elisabeth ran for the 9 p.m. train back to Washington, where she needed to catch a flight in the morning. Julie and I booked rooms at a nearby hotel and bought tickets on Wednesday’s 9 a.m. train.
伊丽莎白赶去乘坐晚上9点的火车回华盛顿，因为她第二天早上还要赶一趟从华盛顿起飞的航班。朱莉和我在附近一家宾馆订了房间，并买好了周三上午9点的火车票。
Another eventful transition day done.
过渡时期精彩多变的一天又过去了。