MADRID — FOUR decades ago, I interviewed the New York Times columnist Tom Wicker about the relationship between the government and the press. It was the Watergate era, and journalism appealed to me as a noble calling.
马德里——四十年前，我就政府与媒体的关系采访了《纽约时报》的专栏作家汤姆·威克(Tom Wicker)。那时正值水门事件甚嚣尘上，新闻报道在我来看是一项崇高的事业，充满魅力。
Mr. Wicker told me that conflict was all but inevitable between executive branches and newspapers that did their duty. He observed that where democracy was weak, newspapers that criticized the government would pay dearly for their audacity. “Careful with the Leviathan,” he said. He quoted John Adams: “The jaws of power are always open to devour, and her arm is always stretched out, if possible, to destroy the freedom of thinking, speaking and writing.”
威克告诉我，行政机关和履行职责的报纸之间几乎必然是会发生冲突的。他发现，在民主衰微的地方，批评政府的报纸就会为其敢言而付出巨大代价。“要小心利维坦(Leviathan)，”他说。他引用约翰·亚当斯(John Adams)的话：“权力总是张着大嘴想要吞噬一切，她的手也总是挥舞着，抓住一切机会摧毁思考、发言、写作的自由。”
The truth of that statement was confirmed for me last week, when I was fired as the editor of El Mundo, Spain’s second-largest newspaper, which I co-founded in 1989. The paper’s owner, Unidad Editorial, which is part of an Italian conglomerate, praised my tenure but denied buckling to political pressure. Sunday’s issue was my last.
而上周，这句话的真实性在我身上应验了。由我在1989年帮助创立的西班牙第二大报纸《世界报》(El Mundo)解除了我的总编职务。报纸的所有者、属于一家意大利大集团公司的Unidad Editorial出版集团高度赞扬了我任职期间的表现，但是否认他们这样做是屈服于政治压力。周日的报纸是我参与制作的最后一期。
My confrontation with the government began last year, when an ally of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy — his political party’s former treasurer, Luis Bárcenas, now jailed on charges of corruption and tax fraud — furnished documents showing illegal financing of the party over nearly two decades. We published an exposé, and turned over the documents to a judge investigating the case. We also published text messages of support that Mr. Rajoy had sent to Mr. Bárcenas.
我与政府的冲突始于去年。当时，首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)的盟友、他所在政党的前财务主管路易斯·巴尔塞尼亚斯(Luis Bárcenas)拿出了一些文件，显示该党在将近20年的时间里进行违法筹资活动。我们发表了一篇文章曝光此事，并将这些文件交给了一位调查此事的法官。巴尔塞尼亚斯如今正因腐败和税务诈骗罪坐牢。我们还刊出了拉霍伊发给巴尔塞尼亚斯表示支持的手机短信。
Mr. Rajoy was livid. “El Mundo distorts and manipulates to produce slander,” he told the Senate on Aug. 1. Shortly after this, the party’s secretary general, María Dolores de Cospedal, said, “I don’t read El Mundo,” which was interpreted as a government-sanctioned boycott of the newspaper. High-level officials, unlike in the past, stayed away from an international journalism awards ceremony we had established in the memory of three reporters who had died in the line of duty. Some of Spain’s biggest companies, many of which are in sectors that are heavily regulated by the government, canceled their advertising. Barry Sussman, an editor who helped lead The Washington Post’s coverage of Watergate, wrote in our pages that we were dealing with the same situation: a combination of dirty money and efforts to intimidate the press.
拉霍伊勃然大怒。他在8月1日对参议院说，“《世界报》歪曲和操纵事实来施加诽谤。”之后不久，该党总书记玛丽亚·多洛雷斯·德科斯佩达尔 (María Dolores de Cospedal)宣称，“我从不看《世界报》。”这句话被诠释为国家批准对《世界报》进行抵制。和过去不同的是，高层官员都纷纷避免出席我们所创立的一项国际新闻奖的颁奖礼，这一仪式是为了纪念三位殉职记者而举行的。一些在西班牙数一数二的大企业取消了与我们的广告合同，其中有许多企业是从事受政府严格管控的行业的。在《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)的水门事件报道中起到带头作用的编辑巴里·萨斯曼(Barry Sussman)在我们的报纸上撰文写道，我们面临的是同样的情形：一面是脏钱，一面是对媒体的震慑。
This heavy-handed government, which has been mum about my dismissal, reminds me of 1974, when I interviewed Mr. Wicker. Gen. Francisco Franco was still in power, but Spain’s collective desire for freedom and democracy had taken on a life of its own. He died the next year, and the press was pivotal in the transition from dictatorship to democracy. Newspapers linked to the old regime had no credibility. Opportunities suddenly opened for journalists of my generation. In 1980, at age 28, I was named editor of the newspaper Diario 16. It was a crash course in journalism and democracy.
这个高压政府对于我的解职一直保持着沉默，这让我想起了1974年我对威克的采访。那时弗朗西斯科·佛朗哥(Francisco Franco)将军仍在位，但是西班牙上下对自由和民主的渴望已经产生了一种自身的推动力。他于第二年去世，在西班牙从独裁国家向民主国家的过渡上，媒体起到了至关重要的作用。人们不相信与旧政权有联系的那些报纸。突然之间，机会的大门向我这一代的新闻记者敞开了。1980年，我被任命为《十六日报》(Diario 16)的总编，当时我28岁。这是一个新闻和民主的强化速成班。
In just a few years we endured seemingly all of the nerve-racking situations that a new democracy could possibly experience. We categorically opposed attempts by Franco’s former generals to undermine the new government. We opposed the terrorism of Basque separatists — but also the death squads that Prime Minister Felipe González’s Socialist government assembled to fight the separatist group, known as ETA.
在短短几年时间里，我们似乎就经历了一个新民主国家可能会经历的所有令人不安的情况。我们明确抵制了佛朗哥时代的将军们企图破坏新政府的行动。我们反对巴斯克分裂分子的恐怖主义行径，但也反对首相费利佩·冈萨雷斯(Felipe González)的社会党政府为打击分裂组织而组建的敢死队ETA。
In 1988, after our investigative reporting linked the Spanish government to the death squads’ killings in the south of France, Mr. González intercepted me in a corridor at the Parliament and asked me to stop publishing “those terrible things.” I refused, and a few months later I was fired. The owner of the newspaper had succumbed to political pressure.
1988年，当我们完成了调查性报道，发现西班牙政府与敢死队在法国南部实施的杀戮行为有关时，冈萨雷斯在议会大楼的走廊上截住了我，要我停止刊登“这些可怕的内容”。我拒绝了，几个月以后我被解职了。报纸的所有者向政治压力屈服了。
Dozens of journalists quit and joined me to found El Mundo, “a new newspaper for a new generation of readers.” It was a rapid success. We quickly occupied a center-right political space, with a strong base of readers among young urban professionals. We resumed our investigation into the death squads.
几十位记者辞职来和我一起创立了《世界报》，“一份面向新一代读者的新报纸”。报纸没花多少时间就成功了。我们很快抢占了一个中右派政治空间，在年轻城市职场人士中建立了扎实的读者群。我们再次启动了对敢死队的调查。
In the late 1990s, as a result of our exposés, Mr. González’s interior minister and his director of state security were convicted of kidnapping. A general in the Spanish military police was found guilty of murder.
在20世纪90年代末，由于我们的曝光，冈萨雷斯的内政部长和国家安全部门主任被认定犯有绑架罪。而西班牙武装警察部队中一位将军则被认定犯有谋杀罪。
Previous prime ministers, including José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Mr. Rajoy’s Socialist predecessor, accepted press criticism. But everything changed when Mr. Rajoy, the leader of the conservative People’s Party, came to power. Though we had endorsed him on three occasions, once in power he exhibited hostility toward uncomfortable truths and indifference to public opinion.
包括拉霍伊的前任、社会党人何塞·路易斯·罗德里格斯·萨帕特罗(José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero)在内的前几届首相都接受媒体的批评。但是自从拉霍伊这位保守的人民党(People’s Party)领袖上台后，一切都变了。虽然我们曾三次给予他支持，但他掌权之后立刻在令他不快的真相面前展示出敌意，对公众舆论也漠不关心。
As elsewhere, journalism in Spain has been under economic pressure. Newspaper advertising fell by two-thirds in six years, and print circulation by more than one-third. El Mundo is a leading newspaper online in Spain, with 7.2 million monthly unique users of its main website and 127,000 digital subscribers, but online revenues are not enough to balance the books. So the political pressure from the government, and its effect on advertising, came at a vulnerable moment.
和世界其他地方一样，西班牙的新闻行业也一直面临着经济压力。在过去六年，报纸的广告减少了三分之二，发行量减少超过三分之一。《世界报》是西班牙网络空间首屈一指的报纸，主站拥有每月720万的独立用户，还有12.7万的电子版订户，但是网站的营收不足以实现收支平衡。所以在这样一个不景气的时期，我们又遭遇了来自政府的政治压力，以及这对广告造成的影响。
Spain has been in serious trouble since the property bubble burst in 2008. Unemployment has been hovering around 25 percent, and the economy is barely out of recession. Mr. Rajoy’s governing party lacks internal democracy. The independence of the judiciary has been weakened. The monarchy has been tarnished by a spending scandal. Add in the attack on the press, and it seems clear to me that democracy might be more fragile now than at any point since Franco died in 1975. I plan to keep writing about it.
自从2008年房地产泡沫破裂之后，西班牙一直陷入严重的危机。失业率基本徘徊在25%左右，经济也还没能走出衰退。拉霍伊的执政党内部缺乏民主机制。司法体系的独立性被削弱。西班牙王室因为开支丑闻而沾上了污点。加上政府对媒体的打压，我觉得很显然，我们当前的民主体制，正处于自佛朗哥1975年去世以来最脆弱的阶段。我打算继续就这一问题写作。