BUSAN, South Korea — In October 2012, my wife and I arrived in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Bushwick and unpacked our suitcases. We had ended a two-year stay in New York and flown back to Korea in June, but returned to America for five weeks to promote the publication of my novel “Black Flower” in English.
韩国釜山——2012年10月，我和妻子抵达布鲁克林的布希维克社区，暂时安顿了下来。此前，我们在纽约待了两年，6月份飞回了韩国定居。这次重回美国要停留五个星期，目的是为我的英文小说《黑花》(Black Flower)的出版做宣传。
We had found the one-bedroom apartment — a fourth-floor walk-up with a sofa that sagged in the middle, so that only one person could sit on it — on Airbnb.com, rented out by a young hipster who worked in the gaming industry. I was sitting on the sofa, feeling disappointed, when the owner of the apartment, who was showing us around, hit the remote control. A large projection screen descended from the ceiling. A Sony PlayStation, a Microsoft Xbox, a motion-sensor camera and surround-sound speakers turned on. I half-listened while he explained how to use these gadgets. I hadn’t been on a plane for 14 hours to play a console game. I thought to myself: Hipster, stop pestering me and leave.
我们在Airbnb.com上找到了一间一居室公寓。它在一栋无电梯楼房的四层，里头的沙发中间已经塌进去，因此只能坐一个人。房东是一个在游戏业工作的年轻潮人，当他带我们看房时，我失望地坐在沙发上。这时，他按了一下遥控，一个巨大的投影屏幕从天花板上降下来。与此同时，一台索尼PlayStation、一台微软Xbox、一个体感摄像头以及环绕立体声音响被打开。他向我讲解这些玩意该如何使用，但我听得心不在焉。我坐14个小时的飞机来这可不是为了玩游戏的。我心想：非主流，别在这烦我了，赶紧走。
A few days later, Hurricane Sandy swept through New York and New Jersey. People swarmed into supermarkets to stock up on water, pasta, bread and bananas. Electric power went out in several neighborhoods. My book’s launch event was, of course, canceled. It had been scheduled, of all times, for the very day that Sandy swept through. As night fell, the subway lines running between Manhattan and Brooklyn ground to a stop. We had nowhere to go. Only then did the PlayStation begin to look appealing.
几天后，飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)横扫了纽约和新泽西。人们涌入超市囤积饮用水、意大利面、面包和香蕉。几个社区停了电。我的新书发布活动当然也被取消了。它刚好被定在“桑迪”来袭的那一天。夜幕降临，曼哈顿和布鲁克林之间的几条地铁线已经停运。我们无处可去。那台PlayStation终于开始显得充满诱惑力了。
For the next few weeks I lived inside a video and Internet-based game called “Killzone.” As soon as I woke up I reached for a game controller that resembled a gun, and shot and killed thousands of bad guys on the screen until my sore arms stopped me from continuing. I battled users from around the world. My book publicist contacted me with plans for a new event, but in a terse email, I replied that I had no interest, and continued playing. I ate tacos and drank Corona beer while killing thousands into the night. I lost weight. My eyes became hollow.
接下来的几个星期，我完全活在一个叫做《杀戮地带》(Killzone)的网络游戏里。每天早上一睁眼，我就拿起类似于手枪的游戏手柄，与屏幕上数千个坏蛋展开枪战，直到胳膊发酸才停下来。我与世界各地的玩家对战。那本书的公关人员为新的推广活动制定了各种计划，但是我写了一封简短的邮件，回复说没有兴趣，然后继续玩。我吃玉米片、喝科罗娜(Corona)啤酒，在网络上大开杀戒，直到深夜。我瘦了不少，眼窝深陷。
Looking back, I see my life has been a series of addictions. As a child, I went through a period devouring comics and martial arts books. For only a short time (thankfully) I became obsessed with card games.
回首过去，我的人生就是一连串的上瘾组成的。童年时期，有一段时间我看了大量的漫画和武侠小说。还有一段很短的时期（谢天谢地），我曾痴迷于纸牌游戏。
In my 20s, I became obsessed with the role-playing game “Romance of the Three Kingdoms,” named after a classical Chinese novel, and later “The Sims,” a life-simulation game, and “StarCraft,” a science-fiction game.
20多岁的时候，我迷上了基于中国古典小说《三国演义》推出的角色扮演游戏，后来又沉迷于生活模拟游戏《模拟人生》(The Sims)和科幻游戏《星际争霸》(StarCraft)。
After 15 years of smoking, I barely managed to quit, at age 33. Until that point, I had been a chain smoker who even lit up in bed.
在33岁的时候，我才勉强把烟戒掉。此前，我已有15年的烟龄，到了烟不离手的地步，甚至躺在床上也要抽。
After giving up smoking, I began my battle with alcohol. I mixed whiskey and beer together into a glass and had it every night. It was the only way I could fall asleep. It took another few years to overcome this habit.
戒烟之后，我开始了与酒精的搏斗。我每天晚上都会喝一杯用威士忌和啤酒调成的饮料，只有这样才能睡着。我又花了几年时间才改掉了这个习惯。
Though my addictive personality didn’t cut too badly into my productivity as a writer, it caused me to waste time, and I was always ashamed of it.
尽管容易上瘾的性格并没有严重影响我的写作产量，却浪费了时间。为此我一直感到很惭愧。
Attitudes toward addiction are complex in South Korea. Though laws governing drugs are very strict, they tend to be lax when concerning alcohol and cigarettes. Alcohol, regardless of its proof, can be found and drunk year-round, 24 hours a day, at nearly any restaurant or bar. According to the World Health Organization, the prevalence of alcohol-use disorders among South Korean men stands at 13.1 percent, more than double the 5.5 percent figure for the United States.
韩国人对上瘾的态度非常复杂。尽管法律对毒品的监管非常严格，但在酒精和烟草问题上却往往非常宽松。在几乎任何一家餐厅和酒吧，不管什么度数的酒都可以在全年每一天的所有时间点买到。根据世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的数据，韩国男性中有酒精使用障碍的比例为13.1%，是美国5.5%的两倍还多。
Our smoking rate is also high. A 2012 report found that South Korea’s cigarette prices — 2,500 won, or about $2.35, a pack — were the lowest among 22 countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. According to the W.H.O., 44.7 percent of South Korean men smoke daily, compared with 16.4 percent of American men. When a smoking ban in large restaurants and bars was put into effect last year, smokers loudly protested. Many bars are choosing to overlook smoking, as it has long been a part of drinking culture.
韩国的吸烟率也很高。2012年的一份报告显示，韩国的香烟价格——每包2500韩元，约合14元人民币——是经济合作与发展组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)22个成员国中最低的。根据世界卫生组织的数据，韩国男性中每天抽烟的比例为44.7%，而美国的这一数字为16.4%。去年在大型餐馆和酒吧的禁烟令生效之后，烟民们表示严重抗议。许多酒吧选择对客人吸烟视而不见，因为长期以来，抽烟已经成为了饮酒文化的一部分。
But among teenagers, Internet games are perceived as a serious addiction. Given the extreme competition surrounding university admissions, parents regard enjoyment of video games with great displeasure. The conflict between parents and their kids, who see the games as a form of escape, has even been known to lead to violence.
不过，在青少年当中，网络游戏成瘾正被看成一个严重的问题。由于大学入学考试竞争极其激烈，父母很不高兴看到孩子玩电子游戏，青少年则把它看做逃避现实的一种方式。父母和子女的这种矛盾甚至引发了暴力事件，并被曝光出来。
Recently, the governing Saenuri Party introduced an addiction law that would treat online video games like drugs, alcohol and gambling and also online video games. The proposal has pitted parents, conservative religious leaders and the medical industry against game developers, progressive intellectuals and gamers. Shin Eui-jin, a medical doctor who sponsored the bill, sees addiction as a disease; others view it as a form of evil.
执政的新国家党(Saenuri Party)最近提出了一部关于上瘾的法案，希望用治疗吸毒、酗酒和赌博的方式治疗网络游戏上瘾。提案引发了两个派别的对立，一方是家长、保守派宗教领袖和医药行业，另一方则是游戏开发商、进步派学者和游戏玩家。起草这个法案的医生议员申宜真(Shin Eui-jin)认为，上瘾是一种病；另有一些人则将其视为一种恶习。
Defenders of gaming are fighting back. Moon Gyu-hak, chief executive of Softbank Ventures Korea, a venture capital fund that invests in technology companies, wrote bitingly on Twitter, “Since we’re being treated as if we are drug dealers, it’s a good time to move operations overseas and have our board members immigrate somewhere like Singapore.” Opponents of the legislation, which includes a game curfew for juveniles, note that the experts behind the latest version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the bible of American psychiatry, held off on listing “Internet gaming disorder” as a formal disorder, calling it a “condition warranting more clinical research.”
游戏的捍卫者们正发起反击。投资科技企业的软银韩国风险投资公司(Softbank Ventures Korea)的首席执行官文圭学(Moon Gyu-hak)在Twitter上不无讽刺地写道，“既然我们得到的是毒贩的待遇，现在正好把业务转移到海外，让我们的董事移民到新加坡等地。”这个提案中包括针对未成年的网络游戏宵禁政策。反对者指出，最新版的美国精神病学圣经——《精神疾病诊断与统计手册》(Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders)背后的专家并没有把“互联网游戏成瘾”当做正式的病症，而是把它称为一种“需要更多临床研究的情况”。
Would a law providing for treatment of Internet gaming addiction actually help players to recover?
对互联网游戏成瘾提供治疗的法律，真的能够帮助玩家回归正常吗？
I didn’t put the controller down in my Brooklyn apartment because of a law. One day my wife approached me as I sat back exhausted from shooting the toy gun.
我之所以在布鲁克林的公寓放下游戏手柄，并不是因为法律。有一天，当我用玩具枪杀得精疲力尽地坐下来时，妻子走了过来。
“You still having fun?” she asked.
她问：“还觉得好玩吗？”
I thought about it, and shook my head: “No.”
我想了想，然后摇头：“不。”
“Then let’s go out.”
“那咱们出去走走吧。”
The hurricane had passed, and the L subway line was running. We went to Central Park and walked through the fallen leaves. The clear autumn sky passed over our heads. Branches as thick as human torsos were strewn about. I suddenly realized that I had been depressed playing the game, and hadn’t enjoyed it for a single moment. I told my wife that I wouldn’t retreat again into that gloomy purgatory. We got some Vietnamese food and returned to Brooklyn. For awhile, each time I closed my eyes, I still saw scenes from “Killzone,” and I had to fight the temptation to return to that world. We left New York and returned to Seoul, almost exactly a year ago.
飓风已经过去，L线地铁又开始运营了。我们去了中央公园，踏着落叶散步，头顶上是纯净的秋日天空，地上到处是如人的躯干般粗细的树枝。我突然意识到，自己在玩游戏的过程中变得抑郁，从没真正从中感受到快乐。我告诉妻子，再也不会窝到那个倒霉地方活受罪了。我们吃了一点越南菜，回到了布鲁克林。此后的一段时间，每当我闭上眼睛，眼前还是会出现《杀戮地带》中的场景，我必须与回到那个世界的诱惑作斗争。我们离开了纽约，回到了首尔。到如今，差不多正好过去了一年。
I feel ashamed thinking back on my time in Brooklyn, when I was addicted to games and isolated from the world. But like a physical scar that is part of one’s body, that time is part of my history.
回想在布鲁克林沉迷于游戏、与世隔绝的日子，我感到很惭愧。但是，就像身体上一个实实在在的伤疤一样，那段时间是我人生经历的一部分。
What would have happened if my wife had sent me to a treatment center? Without access to the Internet, I probably would have recovered — but I would have lost confidence in my ability to overcome the addiction on my own.
如果妻子把我送到治疗中心的话，又会怎样？由于接触不到网络，我可能会恢复正常——但是，我也会失去对自己能够独立战胜游戏瘾的信心。