One central paradox of the smoker’s life is that, despite swallowing an almost comically flagrant deception, most smokers like to regard themselves as pretty smart people. Step outside any bar or restaurant, nip around the back of a conference room at coffee time, and you’ll see them: a bitter huddle of smarter-than-thou smokers, shooting down society’s sacred cows. Want to know how many people died while exercising last year? Ask a smoker. Think smoking kills you? Think again. Every smoker you meet will tell you about their Aunt Jenny or Uncle Steve who sucked back 90 a day and lived to be 100, and even then died only because their houses fell on them. No delusion or hypocrisy escapes the smoker’s gaze. Except, of course, his own.
烟民生命中最核心的悖论就是：尽管接受了一个臭名远扬到近乎可笑的骗局，但大多数烟民还觉得自己挺聪明的。从随便什么饭馆、酒吧走出来，在茶叙时间来到会议室后面，你就能看见他们：一小撮愤愤不平，自以为比别人都聪明的烟民，抨击着社会上不可轻易批评的事物。想知道去年有多少人是在锻炼身体时死掉的吗？去问烟民准没错。觉得吸烟危害生命？再想想看。你遇到的每个烟民都会告诉你，他们的詹妮阿姨或者史蒂夫叔叔每天抽90根烟，照样活到100岁，就算死也是因为房子塌了。任何掩饰和虚伪都逃不过烟民的眼睛——当然，他自己的掩饰和虚伪除外。
I say this with some authority, because I was one. From the age of 17 to 32, despite herculean effort, I just couldn’t smoke enough to feel smoked out. The smoker in me, apparently the brains of the operation, sneered at my every self-improving effort.
我说这话是有点权威的，因为我自己就曾是烟民中的一员。从17岁到32岁，尽管付出了英勇的努力，我还是怎么抽烟也抽不够。我体内的那个吸烟者（显然是掌管吸烟那部分功能的大脑）讥笑我所有自我改善的努力。
After I made several pitiable attempts to break free, it became clear that in order to give up smoking, I was going to have to give up being such a smart aleck. And what better way of achieving this than to give in to something I believed I was too smart for? The solution was obvious: I would humble myself through hypnosis.
经历了若干次可怜的尝试之后，我明白，为了戒烟，我显然不能再当一个自作聪明的家伙了。要达到这个目的，同时又不至于屈尊做什么我觉得愚蠢不堪的事，有什么更好的办法吗？解决方案很简单：我得通过催眠来让自己变得谦卑。
My session with Stella Knight (the name she uses professionally, she told me) took place at her home in Norfolk, England, on a white sofa in her bungalow’s front room. To the burbling accompaniment of a CD called “Celestial Sanctity,” Stella started in with her patter.
我的治疗是和史黛拉·奈特（Stella Knight，她告诉我她只在工作中使用这个名字）一起，在她位于英格兰诺福克的家中完成的，我坐在她家平房前厅里的白色沙发上。伴随着一张名叫《圣洁天穹》(Celestial Sanctity)CD里潺潺流水般的音乐，她以喋喋不休开始了工作。
“People think you have to be stupid to be hypnotized,” she said, “but it’s actually the opposite. The best people to hypnotize are the most intelligent ones. You’re going to be easy.”
“人们都觉得能被催眠的人都很笨，”她说，“但事实正相反。最容易被催眠的人都是最聪明的人。你会很容易进入状态的。”
Aha! I thought. She’s at it already! Look how she boosted my self-esteem a little bit there. Very clever. But look how I spotted it too. Look how astute I am.
啊哈！我想。她已经开始工作了！看她！正在拍我马屁呢。这一手很聪明嘛，不过已经被我识破了。瞧我多机灵。
Clearly, Stella had never encountered someone like me: so intelligent, so attuned to her every hypnotic deception, that he became as difficult to hypnotize as a stupid person.
显然，史黛拉从来没遇到过像我这样的人：那么聪明，对她那套催眠的骗局那么敏感，她想像催眠别的蠢货那样催眠我，可没那么容易。
“Now close your eyes,” Stella said, “and imagine yourself eating a plate of human hair.”
“现在闭上眼睛，”史黛拉说，“想像你在吃一盘人类的头发。”
Then the music changed to something trancy. She told me to count backward from 10. For some reason, I became terrified that she was taking her clothes off while I wasn’t looking. Was that the whisper of her jogging bottoms I could hear? I imagined myself coming to on the shag-pile carpet, a nude, beaming Stella beside me, sparking up a cigarette.
然后音乐声变得恍惚。她又让我从10数到1。出于某种原因，我开始害怕她在我闭着眼睛的时候把衣服脱了。我听见的是她穿的慢跑裤发出的声音吗？我想象自己变成了一块粗毛地毯，史黛拉笑容可掬地躺在我身边，一丝不挂，点着一支香烟。
“All done,” Stella said after what seemed like a few seconds (but was actually 20 minutes). I opened my eyes to see her sitting in an armchair opposite me, sparking up a cigarette.
“结束了，”过了仿佛几秒钟之后，她说（事实上时间过去了20分钟）。我睁开眼睛，看到她坐在我对面的扶手椅上，手里是一支点燃的烟。
“Why are you lighting a cigarette?” I said, not quite masking the panic in my voice.
“你为什么点着烟？”我没有完全掩饰住声音里的惊恐。
“So you can say goodbye to it,” Stella said.
“这样你就可以同它说再见了，”史黛拉说。
What a load of bunk, I thought as I stood outside her bungalow, 80 pounds (about $125) poorer and seemingly no less cocksure.
这都是什么屁话。当我站在她家平房门外时，腰包里少了80镑（约合125美元）钞票，另外似乎自负也减少了几分。
I had a packet of tobacco in my pocket (I had, of course, smoked heavily on the way over). I decided to take it out and think about having a cigarette, noting carefully my emotional response.
我口袋里有一袋烟草（当然，我平时抽烟草也不少）。考虑到自己的情绪，我决定把它拿出来卷支烟。
The coughing fit that followed was both rapid in onset and utterly debilitating in effect. Within seconds, I was doubled over, leaning on Stella’s garden gnome for support, tears pouring down my face, cords of mucus unspooling from my nostrils and a noise rising up from my lungs that, even as I was making it, disgusted me. This led to further gagging and wheezing, until ultimately, I ended up on my knees in supplication to the gnome, holding up what I hoped was a calming hand to the young mother across the street who, upon seeing me, warily swept her toddler into her arms.
随之而来的一阵咳嗽来势迅猛，让我全身虚脱。几秒钟之内，我靠在史黛拉花园里的小神雕像上缩成一团，满脸是泪，鼻涕从鼻孔里可耻地涌出来，肺部响起一阵杂音——尽管这声音是我自己弄出来的，但还是让我觉得恶心。之后又是阵阵呕吐和咳喘。最后我以祈祷的姿势跪倒在那座小神像面前，举手向马路对面一位年轻母亲示意，她在马路对面看到我，就紧张地把婴儿搂在怀里，我希望自己的手势能安抚她。
The fit lasted at least five excruciating minutes. At one point I realized my hand was in my mouth, trying to extract imaginary human hair from my windpipe. By the end I was exhausted and completely unable to imagine smoking for fear of triggering another bout of respiratory violence.
这阵痛苦的发作持续了5分钟。我一度意识到自己把手塞进嘴里，想从气管里拽出那团想象中的头发。最后我精疲力尽，完全没法想象抽烟这回事，只怕触发又一通呼吸系统暴力大发作。
In the weeks that followed, this happened again, always when I ordinarily would have smoked. I took these episodes for what they clearly were: welcome reminders of my boundless susceptibility to suggestion, which, as any good hypnotist will tell you, is just another term for intelligence.
在接下来的几周里，这种事再度发生，都是在我平时本该抽烟的时候。我了解这些插曲的清晰含义：它们随时提醒我，我对于接受暗示有多么敏感——当然任何好的催眠师都会告诉你，这是“聪明”的另一种说法。