My youngest child has been struggling with numbers.
我的小儿子一直对数字有点纠结。
This all started around the time of his 4th birthday, in mid-November. He knew he was getting older and asked a lot of questions about babies, who were “too little to have a number,” being less than 1 year old. Then, on the day of his birthday, he wanted to know when he was turning 4.
事情是从他4岁生日时开始的，当时是在11月中。他知道自己变大了一点，向我们提出了很多有关小宝宝的问题，说这些未满周岁的宝宝“太小了，连一个数字也没有”。接着，到了他生日这天，他想知道，自己是在什么时候年满4岁。
I told him that today was his birthday, that he turned 4 today.
我告诉他，今天是他的生日，所以他就是在今天年满4岁。
“But when do I turn 4?” He had recently learned to emphasize certain words in an effort to assist his dim parents in getting his questions answered.
“可是，我是从什么时候变成了4岁？”最近他学会说话时加重某些词，好让他愚钝的父母解释清楚他的问题。
I told him at 8 in the morning, the time he was born.
我告诉他，是在上午8点，他就是在这个时候出生的。
“No, no, when do I turn 4?”
“不是的，不是，是什么时候我变成了4岁？”
I looked at him helplessly, wondering whether he was expecting some pivotal moment when he would suddenly gain five inches in height. He decided that the anointed time occurred later that day, after he received his presents.
我无助地看着他，猜想他是不是希望能经历一个关键性的时刻，瞬间个子蹿高5英寸。后来他自己决定了下来，他希望这个神圣时刻能推迟到当天晚些时候，等他从父母那里收到礼物再说。
A week later, his mother and I went for a car ride with her parents, both in their mid-70s. In a rare quiet moment amid the usual barrage of instructions on how to navigate the rural western Pennsylvania roads, our son spoke up.
一星期后，我和孩子妈妈开车出游，同车的还有她的父母，两位的年纪都已经是75岁上下了。大家伙习惯性地对如何在宾州西路乡间马路上穿行七嘴八舌地发表着指令，当中罕见地静了一小会儿，我们的儿子开口发言了。
“When is Pappy going to die?”
“爷爷什么时候会死啊？”
The adults fell over themselves responding, trying to both reassure him and ourselves, as if the faster and louder we answered his question, the more we would negate it: A lot of years. Not for a long, long time. We hope he never does.
大人们纷纷回话，既想安抚孩子，也想安抚我们自己，就好像我们回答他的问题越快速，就越能否定它：还要过好多年。很长很长时间都不会。我们希望爷爷永远不会死。
This satisfied him for the moment, but much like his father, he broods about these types of important topics. A couple of hours later, back at the house, he asked as if in mid-thought: “But, what is the last number?”
这暂时让他满意了，可是在喜欢琢磨重大话题这方面，儿子酷肖我。过了几个小时，等我们回家后，他若有所思地问：“可是，最后的那个数字是多少呢？”
I repeated his question, stalling.
我复述了一遍他的问题，迟迟不回答。
“Yes, what is the last number? What’s my last number?” he asked. His mother and I glanced at each other, in a quick game of chicken to see who would answer first.
“是啊，最后的数字是多少？我最后的数字又是多少？”他说。他妈妈与我对视了一下，进行了一场快速胆小鬼游戏，想要看看是谁忍不住先开口回答。
“We don’t know, honey,” I finally said. He looked up at my wife, who nodded in agreement.
“甜心，我们不知道啊，”最终我这样说。他抬头看看我妻子，她也点头表示同意。
My son’s words came back to me the following Monday when I saw my first patient, a man in his 70s whose leukemia didn’t get worse on chemotherapy, but unfortunately also didn’t get better. We had run out of options, aside from supportive care.
接下来的那个周一，我儿子的话再次回响在我耳边，当时，我要去看自己当天的第一个病人，这是位年过七旬、患白血病的男性，化疗没有使得病情恶化，可是遗憾的是，也没有好转。我们已经没有什么选择了，只能维持治疗。
“How long does he have?”
“他还有多长时间？”
My patient’s son asked the question that was on everyone’s mind, and when he did, the wave of emotion that washed across the room was almost palpable. My patient’s daughter crossed her legs, and his wife started to cry. So did my patient, though he tried to hide it, glancing up at the fluorescent ceiling lights of the clinic room. Guys in his generation, I’ve found, don’t like to appear weak in front of their family.
病人的儿子问出了这个盘旋在所有人脑海里的问题，这个问题刚刚抛出来，感情的波涛立刻在诊室呼啸而来，简直要席卷一切。病人的女儿翘起二郎腿，他的妻子开始哭泣。我的病人仰头看着诊室上方天花板上的日光灯，想要掩饰自己的情绪。我已经发现了，他那个年代的男人不喜欢当着家人流露出软弱的一面。
I turned to my patient and asked him if he wanted me to talk about this, about his prognosis. My first responsibility in this type of situation is always to my patient and what he wants to hear. Some people want to know specifics, down to the half-month of predicted survival; others want no information at all, as if hearing a number will seal their fate.
我转过来面对病人，问他是否希望我谈到这个话题，说说他的预后。碰到这类情况，我的首要职责永远是为病人负责，为他希望听到的内容负责。一些人想要了解细节，最好精确到预计生存期的半个月以内；还有一些人不想听到任何信息，好像听到一个数字，自己的命运就会被盖上封条。
“Sure, I guess so,” he answered. He did want to know, but he didn’t want to know.
“我想，没关系的，”他回答说。他确实想要知道，但他又不想知道。
Oncologists are notoriously bad at predicting survival, and none of us wants to be known as “the doctor who told me I would be dead by now,” the doctor who made a prediction of imminent demise, sending a family into a terrifying tailspin of goodbyes, only to be proven wrong and subsequently mocked for years to come. One of my patients, upon being told by another doctor that she had two months to live, held Christmas in April so she could spend one last holiday with her grandchildren. She survived to see two more Christmases.
在预计生存期这方面，肿瘤科医生糟糕得人尽皆知，而我们中没有哪个大夫希望落下“就是那个医生说我活不到现在”这种名声，成为那种医生：预言病人行将就木，令一家人陷入诀别的恐慌中，可事后却被证实此言不实，结果在接下来的几年里成为笑柄。我的一位病人，曾被另一位医生告知，她只有两个月生命了，于是她在4月份庆祝圣诞节，好跟孙辈们共同度过最后一个节日。她又活着度过了两个圣诞节。
At the same time, we need to be truthful and give guidance to people who want time to prepare, time to write wills and pay off debts, to say goodbyes and to leave instructions, to tie up the loose ends of a life now heavy with meaning.
与此同时，我们应当诚恳，要给予人们指引，好让他们有时间去准备，去写遗嘱，偿清欠债，去告别，留下指示，他们需要将这个如今承载了沉甸甸的意义的生命，亲手做一个了结。
We try to provide hope, but not false hope.
我们希望带来希望，但并非虚妄的希望。
So we give ranges, starting with the best estimate of survival, because my patients have told me they shut down after they hear the worst estimate. We talk about setting goals, about maximizing quality of life, because we don’t have much leverage with quantity of life. We emphasize spending as much time as possible with family and friends, and as little time as possible with people wearing white coats. We tell them we’re not going to give up if they don’t give up.
所以，我们会给出一个范围，先说生存期最好的估计，因为我的病人们曾告诉我，一旦他们听到最坏的估计，就会缄口不语。我们会谈起设定的目标，说说如何最大程度改善生存质量，因为眼下我们对生存的数量已经没有多少控制力了。我们会强调，尽可能与亲友度过这段时间，尽量别再跟穿白大褂的人在一起了。我们告诉他们，如果他们不放弃，我们绝对不会放手。
But the truth is, we don’t know.
但事实是，我们并不知道。