On a Sunday night not long ago, my roommate and I were sitting in our apartment in Harlem when we were interrupted by frantic knocking. We opened the door to find our upstairs neighbor standing there, a pink notice in her hand.
不久前，一个星期天的晚上，我和室友正待在我们位于哈莱姆区(Harlem)的公寓中，突然听到一阵慌乱的敲门声。我们打开门，发现楼上的一位邻居正站在那儿，手里拿着一张粉红色通知单。
“Have you seen this?” she asked, handing it to me. I read the bold type in disbelief: “You may be evicted without further notice, on the sixth business day after the date of this notice.” It was dated Jan. 23, which meant the clock had been ticking for four days already. I read that line five times before I realized we were days from being tossed out onto the streets of New York, in the middle of winter.
“你们看到这张单子了吗？”她边问边把单子递给我。我不敢置信地读着上面的黑体字：“自通知发布之日起第六个工作日，你们将被驱逐，恕不另行通知。”单子上的日期是1月23日，也就是说，时钟已经“嘀嗒嘀嗒”地走了四天了。我把这行字读了五遍才意识到，再过两天，我们就要被扔到严冬中的纽约街头了。
Within minutes, all six tenants of my building’s three apartments were gathered at our doorway. The notice from the city marshal, which had been tacked to the wall in the lobby, left us with many unanswered questions. Chief among them: why was this happening? We had all been paying rent to our landlord since we’d moved in. How could we now be on the verge of losing our homes?
不出几分钟，我们楼里三套公寓中的所有六名租客就都聚到了我们家门口。市警察局长签发的这张通知之前贴在大堂的墙上，它让我们疑窦丛生。其中首要的一个问题是，为什么会发生这种事？我们自打搬进来后一直向房东交房租，现在怎么会面临流离失所了呢？
Unwittingly, we had landed in the middle of a New York real estate drama, Kafkaesque in nature and as puzzling as a trip down the rabbit hole in “Alice in Wonderland.” As it turned out, the landlord to whom we had been writing our checks did not actually own our building. He rented it from another company and had stopped paying his rent because, he argued in court papers, a third entity held claim to the building.
不经意间，我们就被卷入了一场纽约房地产的闹剧，不但有点卡夫卡式的荒诞，而且让人好像钻进了《爱丽丝漫游奇境》里的兔子洞一样晕头转向。原来，一直接受我们所开支票的那位房东，并不是这栋大楼的真正所有者。他是通过另一家公司租下的这栋楼，且已经停止支付租金。据他在提交给法庭的文件上辩称，这是因为第三方要收回这栋大楼的所有权。
Our first inkling of the dispute had come two weeks earlier, when a decision from a Civil Court judge was placed in my mailbox. It stated that a company I’d never heard of had the right to take possession of our building as of Dec. 4. Concerned, I e-mailed our landlord, who told me he was in litigation over the building and was confident he was going to prevail. And we should keep paying him our rent.
我们初次接触到这场纷争的征兆，是在两周前，民事法庭的一张判决书被塞进了我的邮箱。判决书上称，我从未听说过的一家公司有权于12月4日收回我们这栋大楼。我颇有些担心，便给房东发了一封电邮询问，他告诉我说已经因为这栋大楼提起了诉讼，而且很有信心会胜诉，所以我们应该继续向他交租。
It had been love at first walk-through when we saw our newly renovated three-bedroom apartment with high ceilings and wood floors at 127th Street and Lenox Avenue, in the heart of Harlem. But before we could move in, issues began. The day we arrived at the rental office to pick up our keys, they weren’t available — and our apartment wasn’t ready. When my roommate showed up with keys and her stuff, she discovered construction was still being completed and the refrigerator was yet to be installed. Still, we settled into our dream apartment with trips to Target and Ikea. We hosted our Harlem Renaissance-theme housewarming party, excited to be living on historic Lenox.
当初，我们第一次走进这套公寓，看到刚刚修葺一新的三间卧室、高高的天花板和实木地板时，就爱上了这里。它位于第127街和伦诺克斯大道(Lenox Avenue)之间，正是哈莱姆区的中心地带。然而在我们搬进去之前，问题就开始了。我们来到租赁业务办公室取钥匙那天，发现钥匙还不能拿，而且公寓也没准备好。当我的室友带着钥匙和行李到达房子那时，发现装修工作还在收尾，连冰箱都还没配置好。尽管如此，我们还是在这间梦中公寓安顿了下来，来回跑了几趟塔吉特百货(Target)和宜家(Ikea)。我们还举办了哈莱姆文艺复兴主题的暖房派对，为住进了有历史意义的伦诺克斯大道而兴奋不已。
As we waved at Marcus Samuelsson many mornings and witnessed the opening of the Red Rooster nearby, construction began on the vacant retail space beneath us. We were alerted to it by the loud noise — then the mice and dust creeping into our apartment through the unsealed cracks in the floor and stairs.
就在我们日日清晨对着广告牌上的马科斯·萨缪尔森（Marcus Samuelsson，纽约名厨——译注）挥手，眼见着附近的红公鸡(Red Rooster)餐厅开门营业时，我们楼下空置的店面开始装修。直到听到嘈杂的噪音，我们才对此有所察觉——随后，老鼠和灰尘从不太严实的地板和楼梯裂缝中钻进了我们的公寓里。
Our landlord offered a silver lining by telling us that we would soon enjoy a Senegalese bakery downstairs. When the renovation was complete, however, the bakery was actually a Senegalese buffet restaurant. Then the restaurant’s owner began construction again to reconfigure the space into a bar and lounge to compete with the new crop of nightspots in Harlem. The only problem was he did not install soundproofing, and his D.J. set up right below our bedrooms.
房东给了我们一线希望，他告诉我们，很快我们就能享受到楼下有一家塞内加尔面包店的好处了。然而装修结束后，所谓的面包店成了塞内加尔自助餐馆。然后，餐馆主人又开始装修，把那地方重新布置成了一间酒吧餐厅，好与哈莱姆地区新兴的一堆夜间活动场所竞争。唯一的问题是，他没有安装隔音设施，而店里的D.J.正好就在我们卧室的正下方。
Even in the chaos, we still loved our apartment and loved living a few blocks from some of Harlem’s most famous hot spots. Each month we paid our rent, and since we had a year-to-year lease, each year the rent went up, almost 20 percent in two years.
即便有这样的喧闹，我们依然热爱这套公寓，也喜欢住在与哈莱姆几个最著名的热门地点几个街区之遥的地方。我们每个月都支付房租，由于合同是一年一签的，租金年年上涨，两年内差不多涨了20%。
Unbeknown to us, our landlord wasn’t making his payments to his landlord. According to a letter from one of the lawyers involved, his lease on the building was terminated on Jan. 23, 2012, exactly a year before we received the eviction notice. The reason for termination: “continuing nonpayment of rent” that started in April 2010. So even as we were signing our lease on June 1, 2010, our landlord was already months behind on his own rent payments. While we endured the city’s summer heat wave in June 2012, the building’s owner was filing for judicial intervention. And six months later, as we prepared for our annual Thanksgiving potluck, the case had made its way through the housing court docket.
但我们并不知道的是，我们的房东却没有给他的房东支付租金。根据一位处理此事的律师发来的信函，他对这栋楼的租约已于2012年1月23日终止了，正好是从我们接到驱逐令算起，整整一年之前。终止的原因是：自2010年4月起“一直没有租金支付”。所以，甚至早在2010年6月1日我们签下租赁合同的时候，房东已经有数月未交他本人该交的那份房租了。而当2012年6月，我们忍受着纽约夏天的热浪时，这栋大楼的所有者正在申请司法干涉。六个月后，当我们正在准备每年一度的感恩节聚餐时，这桩案子已经被列入房屋法庭的备审案件目录里。
On Nov. 26, 2012, a Civil Court judge, Arlene P. Bluth, ruled that the lease was in breach because of nonpayment for over two years. The judge compared our landlord’s action to a “nonviolent stickup.”
在2012年11月26日，民事法庭一位叫做阿琳·P·布卢特(Arlene P. Bluth)的法官判决租赁关系中断，因为房东超过两年未支付租金。这位法官把我们房东的行为比作是“非暴力抢劫”。
Two months later, the marshal’s notice went up on our wall.
两个月之后，这张执法通知单便贴在了我们墙上。
The morning after we discovered the notice, I called the city marshal, hoping to explain that we were innocent bystanders in this case. After keeping me on hold for 15 minutes, the clerk told me that because my name wasn’t on the eviction notice, there was nothing she could do for me.
在发现这张通知单的那个早晨，我打了个电话到纽约市警察局，想解释说我们在这个案子中是无辜的局外人。接电话的工作人员让我等了15分钟后告诉我，因为我的名字不在驱逐令上，所以她也帮不了我。
What were our options? “You can either call your landlord or go to Housing Court — I suggest you go to Housing Court,” she said. That same morning, I met my roommate, Charreah Jackson, at court, hoping we could delay our eviction, if not stop it altogether.
那我们有什么选择呢？“要么你可以给房东打电话，或者去房屋法庭——我建议你去房屋法庭吧，”她说。还是在那天早上，我和室友沙丽亚·杰克逊(Charreah Jackson)在法庭外碰了面，希望法庭即便不能停止执行对我们的驱逐，也能加以推迟。
At first, we got nowhere. A clerk on the first floor sent us to the third floor, where a woman told us the same thing she had told other tenants from our building who had been there before us. She said we could go back to the first floor to the legal aid department for assistance. We waited in line. The attendant told us she had already talked to another tenant from our building.
起初，我们不知所措。一楼的工作人员让我们去三楼，而三楼的一位女士对我们说的话，和她早前对我们大楼里来的其他租客所说过的一模一样。她说，我们可以回到一楼的法律援助部寻求帮助。我们排队等了半天。工作人员却告诉我们，她已经同我们大楼的其他租客谈过这个问题了。
“Like I told the lady that was here before you, I suggest you collect all of your valuable items, especially your important documents, and move them to a storage unit,” she said. She said we would probably be evicted on Thursday and might never see our belongings if the debt wasn’t paid to the owner.
她说，“就像我对那位在你之前来的女士说的一样，我建议你还是收拾好所有值钱的东西，尤其是自己的一些重要文档资料，把它们转移到一个储藏柜去存好。”她还说，我们很有可能会在周四就被驱逐出去，而且，如果债务没有清偿给房主的话，我们可能就再也看不到自己的那些财物了。
Then, another legal aid representative overheard our conversation and came over. Go back upstairs and talk to a man named Steve, she said. Back on the third floor, Steve told us to fill out a show-cause order, which would allow us to go before a judge and explain why we should not be evicted. Finally, we were told to return two days later — the day before our scheduled eviction — to present our case. We also had to serve the owner’s lawyer at his Bronx office and mail notice of the hearing to the marshal.
不久，另一位法律援助代表听到我们的谈话走了过来。她让我们回到楼上去跟一个叫做史蒂夫(Steve)的人谈谈。回到三楼，史蒂夫让我们填好一张原因出具单，这张单子允许我们同一位法官当面解释，为什么我们不应该被驱逐。最后，我们被告知过两天——也就是按原计划我们要被驱逐的前一天——再来呈交我们的案子。我们还要将此情况告知在在布朗克斯区(Bronx)办公的房主律师，并把听证会通知邮寄给警察局。
On Wednesday morning, we returned to the courthouse. Waiting outside the courtroom was a lawyer who said he was representing our building’s new management. It had never intended to evict us, he said. He suggested we draft an agreement stating that we would be allowed to stay even though our landlord was being evicted. We agreed, and then our contract was presented to the judge, who approved it.
周三早上，我们再次来到法院。庭外正有一位律师在等候，他说自己是大楼新管理者的代理律师。他们决无驱逐我们之意，他这样说道。他还建议我们起草一个协议，说即使我们的房东被驱逐，我们也被允许留下。大家都同意，于是，我们的合同呈交给了法官，并得到了批准。
It was over. We had won. Sort of. The battle over who actually owns our building continues, though we have no part in the fight. We’ve got new locks on our doors and new leases. It’s hard to know what we learned from the whole episode, except for one thing: When you end up in Housing Court, ask for Steve.
这件事就此结束。我们赢了。算是吧。尽管我们已经不再牵涉在内，但是，关于谁才是大楼真正所有者的斗争仍在继续。我们有了新的门锁，也签了新的租约。我们不太清楚自己从这件事的来龙去脉中学到了什么，只不过明白了一件事：当你不得不去房屋法庭的时候，找史蒂夫。