IT was the quintessential immigrant moment. Two weeks after my family and I had arrived in New York, a friend drove me to Costco. Half an hour later, at the cash register, I was hidden from view by the pyramid of diapers, napkins and other paper products in the shopping cart. My friend laughed and snapped a picture, promising to post it online with the caption, “Masha comes to America.”
那是典型的移民时刻。我和我的家人到达纽约的两周后，一位朋友开车带我去好市多(Costco)。半小时后在收银台前，购物车中堆成小山的尿布、餐巾纸和其他纸质产品挡住了我的视线。我的朋友大笑着拍下一张照片，说要把它贴上网，并配以图片说明，“玛莎(Masha)来到美国”。
And then my debit card did not work.
然后我的借记卡用不了了。
This wasn’t just any card; it was a Citibank gold card, the kind that warrants a special line at the bank’s offices and obsequiousness from the tellers. And it was linked to the account that, for the moment, held all my money: We had sold our apartment in Moscow, jumped through an assortment of Russian tax hoops and transferred the proceeds to the United States, where we now lived.
这可不是随便什么卡；它是一张花旗银行(Citibank)的金卡，这样一张卡往往能让你在银行排在一条特别的队列里，也会让出纳员对你奉承巴结。那时候，它是和存有我全部家当的一个账户相连的：我们卖掉了在莫斯科的公寓，过五关斩六将完成了俄罗斯各种复杂的税务手续，把卖房所得转移到了美国，也就是我们如今居住的地方。
It made me nervous to have all that money sitting in one virtual clump in the bank — but not nearly as nervous as having the card connected to it not work. The experience was also humiliating. In one moment, I had gone from being a Citigold client to a deadbeat immigrant who couldn’t pay for her son’s diapers.
将全部家当堆在银行的某一个角落里令我十分不安，但比起看到与这堆钱相连的一张银行卡用不了时的紧张，这根本算不得什么。这样的经历也会给人带来巨大的羞辱。那一刻，我就从一位花旗银行的金卡客户变成了一个游手好闲的移民，连儿子的尿布钱都拿不出。
I called Citibank as soon as I got home.
我一到家就打电话给花旗银行。
“Your account has been closed,” a woman informed me, without a hint of that special precious-metal politeness.
“你的账户已被关闭，”电话那头的女人通知我，声音中听不出一丝和那种贵金属相称的特别礼遇。
“When? Who closed it?” I was working hard not to sound belligerent. “And where is my money?” I could hear the woman tapping on her keyboard indifferently, as she was figuring out where all the money I had in the world was.
“什么时候关闭的？谁关闭的？”我努力让自己不要听上去像要吵架的样子。“那我的钱在哪儿呢？”，在她查询我的存款情况时，我能听到她冷漠地敲击键盘的声音。
I whispered to my partner that the account had been closed and the money was gone. “It’s the Russian tax police,” she whispered back.
我小声对我的伴侣说，账户已被关闭，钱没了。“肯定是俄罗斯税务警察干的，”她小声回答。
That made perfect sense. As a journalist I had investigated similar scams perpetrated by the Russian tax police on a far grander scale. And I had reported this transfer, including the amount and all the account details, to the Russian tax authorities. Except that it wasn’t the Russian tax police that had closed my accounts (there were two). It was Citibank.
这听上去合情合理。作为一名记者，我曾经调查过俄罗斯税务警察布下的相似骗局，金额比这要大得多。我也向俄罗斯税务机关申报了这项转账，包括具体金额和具体的账户资料。但这一次并不是俄罗斯税务警察关闭我的账户的（共有两个账户）。是花旗银行。
“I see that because your transactions indicated there may be an attempt to avoid complying with currency regulations, Citibank has closed your account,” the woman informed me. There was now a distinct note of steel in her voice.
“我看到，因为你的各项交易显示，你可能企图规避相关的货币规范，所以花旗银行关闭了你的账户，”这个女人告诉我。现在，她的声音中明显有了一种钢铁的质感。
“But why did no one contact me? If they had, I would have submitted the documents showing that the money came from the sale of an apartment, and all tax obligations have been met.” I was babbling, and the details were no longer important. “Where is my money?”
“那为什么也没人联系我呢？如果他们联系了我，我就会提交有关的文件，证明这些钱来自我出售一套公寓，并完成了所有的纳税义务，”我还在喋喋不休，但这些细节已不再重要。“我的钱到哪儿去了？”
“A cashier’s check for the full amount of money contained in your accounts has been sent,” the woman said.
“我们已经发出了一张包含你两个账户所有资金的银行本票，”那个女人说。
“Why wasn’t I notified?”
“那为什么我没有收到通知？”
“The cashier’s check will serve as your notice.” Citibank had fired me as a client.
“那张本票也就是给你的通知。”花旗银行把我这个客户给炒了。
For several nerve-racking days my nest egg, my children’s future college tuition — every penny I had — resided in a cashier’s check that was wending its way through the United States Postal Service. It finally arrived with a terse note informing me that I had been told “in a previous letter” that Citibank could no longer have me as a client. I had gotten no previous letter, and this one came from the Client Escalation Unit — about as far from the grace of gold-card status as a customer can fall.
那段揪心的日子里，我一生的积蓄、我孩子未来的大学学费——我拥有的每一分钱——都在一张银行本票里，随美国邮政服务(United States Postal Service)在流转。它最后还是到了我的手上，附有一个简短的通知，告诉我曾在“前一封信”里通知我，我不再是花旗银行的客户了。我此前没有收到过信，而这一封则来自高级客户服务部(Client Escalation Unit)——从尊贵的金卡客户到现在，没有比这更大的落差了。
I wasn’t entirely surprised. This had happened to other Russian-Americans I know, including one of my closest friends and my father. My friend had opened her account at a local bank in the United States when she got her first job, at age 13. Her accounts were summarily closed in 2008, while she was working in Russia. The bank, which had been bought by Sovereign in the meantime, would not state a reason for firing a client of 27 years.
这并不是完全出乎我的意料。这样的事也曾发生在其他我认识的俄裔美国人身上，包括我最好的一个朋友和我的父亲。我的朋友13岁在美国找到第一份工作时，在本地一家银行开设了账户。2008年当她在俄罗斯工作时，她的账户立即被关闭。对于一位27年忠实于它的客户，这家银行在取消她的资格时都不愿给出一个解释，当时它已经被苏维瑞银行(Sovereign)收购。
My father, who immigrated to the United States in 1981, had his accounts closed by BankBoston in 2000, when he was a partner in a Moscow-based business. His lawyers pressed the bank on the issue and were eventually told that because Russians had been known to launder money, the bank applied “heightened scrutiny” to accounts that had a Russia connection. It had closed “many” accounts because of what it considered suspicious activity.
而我的父亲在1981年移民至美国。2000年，当时他是一家总部位于莫斯科的企业的合伙人，他的账户被波士顿银行(BankBoston)关闭。他的律师就该问题质问波士顿银行，最终被告知，因为俄罗斯人素以洗钱出名，这家银行对于任何与俄罗斯有关的账户采取“加强检查”措施。由于它所认为的可疑活动，该行已经关闭了“多个”账户。
Like other kinds of ethnic profiling, these policies of weeding out Russian-Americans who have money are hardly efficient. Russians who launder money don’t do it by transferring large amounts between personal accounts opened in the same name and in plain view of all the relevant authorities. They channel the money through businesses registered in offshore zones, usually under names culled from pop songs or romantic comedies.
和其他一些种族定性的做法一样，这种剔除有钱的俄裔美国人的做法几乎也没什么实效。真正洗钱的俄罗斯人不会在众多相关机构的注视之下，将大笔资金在以同名开具的个人账户之间进行转移。他们会通过在离岸金融区注册的公司来转移资金，通常这些公司名不是取自流行歌曲就是来自浪漫喜剧。
When I took my cashier’s check to a new bank, I felt trepidation and made sure to say nothing about Russia. I got a platinum card.
当我拿着我的银行本票去另一家银行时，我感到惶恐不安，确保自己不提任何有关俄罗斯的话。我拿到了一张白金卡。