I didn’t think much about it at the time: I was appearing in a short television segment and had quickly brushed my hair, then slapped on some concealer. I figured my glasses would cover the circles under my eyes.
当时我没想太多：我要在电视节目中短暂亮相，所以我匆匆梳理头发，然后随便抹了点遮瑕霜。我觉得眼镜能遮住黑眼圈。
Only later did I behold what I looked like — and it was terrifying. It wasn’t that I was disheveled; it was the actual face that looked back at me in the frozen screen shot.
后来我注视自己的样子时才发现：真可怕。让我震惊的不是我蓬乱的头发，而是截图中那张也正在注视着我的脸。
My mouth curled slightly downward, my brows were furrowed, my lips were a little pursed. My eyes aimed forward in a deadpan stare. I looked simultaneously bored, mad and skeptical. I was basically saying to the newscaster: Die.
我的嘴微微下弯，眉毛微皱，嘴唇微撅。双目毫无表情地盯着前方。我看起来既厌烦又生气还一副怀疑的样子。我那架势就像在对新闻主播说：去死吧。
In that moment, I joined the ranks of a tribe of women who suffer from the scourge known as “resting bitch face” or, increasingly, just RBF.
那一刻，我也成了众多患有“天生臭脸综合征”（resting bitch face，简称RBF）的不幸女人中的一员。
If you’re up on your Internet memes, perhaps you’ve heard of its linguistic predecessor: “bitchy resting face,” which emerged from a parody Public Service Announcement.
如果你熟悉互联网米姆，也许你听说过它之前的称呼“bitchy resting face”，它出自一个讽刺公益广告。
For those who need a review, RBF is a face that, when at ease, is perceived as angry, irritated or simply … expressionless. It’s the kind a person may make when thinking hard about something — or perhaps when they’re not thinking at all.
我给那些不了解背景的读者稍微解释一下，天生臭脸综合征就是在放松状态下看起来也像是生气、恼怒或木然的脸。那是一个人在认真思考或者——大脑放空时才会有的面部表情。
“Is there a filter on Instagram that fixes Bitchy Resting Face? I’m asking for a friend,” the actress Anna Kendrick tweeted, explaining recently to the late-show host James Corden that, “When somebody takes a photo and I’m in the background of it, I think, like, ‘Oh my God what’s wrong with me?!’ ”
“Instagram上有没有专修天生臭脸的滤镜？我帮一个朋友打听的，”女演员安娜·肯德里克(Anna Kendrick)在Twitter上问道。前不久她对深夜秀主持人詹姆斯·科登(James Corden)解释说，“看到我在别人照片背景里的表情时，我心想，‘天哪，我是怎么回事?!’” 
Other celebrities caught in serious repose: January Jones, whose “absolutely miserable” face made headlines this month at a ComicCon event; Tyra Banks, who has famously advised women to “smize” (smile with your eyes); Victoria Beckham; Kristen Stewart; and Anna Paquin, who has defined RBF as “you are kind of caught off guard and you’re not smiling, and it means you look really angry all the time, or like you want to kill people.” (Also, in the less-chronicled male RBF category: Kanye.)
其他名人也被拍到过这种可怕的天生臭脸，比如贾纽埃里·琼斯(January Jones)，本月她在一次动漫大会上露出“非常悲伤的”脸，成了多个媒体的头条；蒂拉·班克斯(Tyra Banks)，大家都知道，她曾建议女人们“用眼睛微笑”（smile with your eyes，简称smize）；维多利亚·贝克汉姆(Victoria Beckham)；克里斯汀·斯图尔特(Kristen Stewart)；以及安娜·帕坎(Anna Paquin)，她对天生臭脸综合征的定义是“你毫无防备，没有微笑，看起来总是不高兴的样子，或者像是要去杀人”（被拍到患有“天生臭脸综合征”的男星不多，比如坎耶[Kanye]）。
Now, it’s safe to assume that humans have always made The Face. (Doesn’t the Mona Lisa sort of have it?) And it does have its uses. It is great for staring down Greenpeace solicitors on the street, or glaring at men who catcall you on the subway.
倒是可以肯定地说，人一直都会做出这副表情（蒙娜丽莎[Mona Lisa]的那副表情多少也有点臭脸的意思，不是吗？）。它其实挺有用的。比如，在街上，它能吓退绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)的律师；在地铁里，它能回击那些对你吹口哨的男人。
At a crowded bar, the expression can serve as a kind of armor against unwanted pickup artists (better, as one young woman put it, “than a fake engagement ring”).
在拥挤的酒吧里，这副表情就像盔甲，能挡住那些讨厌的把妹狂（有个年轻女人说的更妙，它“比假订婚戒指”还管用咧）。
And, as Tanya Tarr, a 36-year-old professional coach, described it: When engaged correctly, it can part a crowd of tourists on a busy street “like the Red Sea.”
36岁的职业教练塔尼娅·塔尔(Tanya Tarr)说，如果使用得当，它能“像红海一样”把拥挤街道上的游客分开。
But it is also a problem (and, like the word “bitch” itself, one that seems to predominantly affect one-half of the gender equation).
但它也是一个麻烦（和这个名词中的“bitch”这个词一样，天生臭脸综合征似乎主要用来形容女性）。
RBF is now the topic of multiple “communities” on Facebook, dominated by women.
现在，天生臭脸综合征是Facebook上以女性为主的多个“社区”的主题。
Plastic surgeons say they are fielding a growing number of requests from those who want to surgically correct their “permafrowns” (again, primarily from women).
整形外科医生们说，越来越多的人（大多是女人）想通过手术矫正她们“永恒的皱眉”。
The country star Kacey Musgraves recently helped Buzzfeed create a list of 17 more accurate names for RBF (among them, Resting “this wouldn’t bother you if I was a guy” face).
前不久，乡村音乐巨星凯西·马斯格雷夫斯(Kacey Musgraves)帮Buzzfeed网站列出了天生臭脸综合征的17个更准确的名字（其中一个是“如果我是男的，这就不是个问题了”）。
A New Jersey business journal, NJBIZ, even published a special report on the topic.
新泽西州的商业杂志《NJBIZ》甚至发表了一篇关于这个主题的特别报道。
“Yes, we’ve asked ourselves the questions you might be asking yourself right now: What relevance does this have in the workplace? Is this topic sexist? Should we write this story at all?” the publication wrote, noting the seeming absurdity of a business publication tackling RBF.
这篇报道写道，“是的，我们已经问过自己那些你们可能正在问的问题：这跟工作有什么关系？这个话题是否存在性别歧视？我们到底该不该谈论这个话题？”，表明一本商业杂志谈论天生臭脸综合征可能看似荒谬。
“But, after calling around the state asking more than a dozen C-suite women in multiple industries to weigh in on the subject, we noticed one thing: No one ever scoffed or even asked, ‘Why would this matter?’ ”
“但是，我们致电本州多个行业的十多位高层女主管，请她们参与讨论这个话题时，我们注意到：没一个人嘲笑这个话题，甚至没一个人质疑‘这个重要吗’。” 
Yes, the tyranny of RBF is real.
是的，天生臭脸综合征的残酷真实存在。
For Nora Long, a 22-year-old intern at a Florida law firm, the struggle began in kindergarten, when her school’s headmaster summoned her to his office “because he thought I looked unhappy.” “From that day on until he left the school when I was in the seventh grade,” Ms. Long said, “he would say ‘Smile Nora!’ every time he saw me.”
22岁的诺拉·朗(Nora Long)是佛罗里达州一家律师事务所的实习生。对她来说，麻烦从幼儿园就开始了，当时校长把她叫到办公室，“因为他觉得我看起来不高兴”。“从那天起一直到我七年级时他离开那所学校，”朗说，“他每次见到我总是说，‘笑一笑，诺拉！’”
Morra Aarons-Mele, a small-business owner in Los Angeles, said she “Botoxed away” her “congenital frown line” so that people would stop asking, “Are you mad?” “Then people were warmer to me — I swear,” she said.
莫拉·阿伦-米尔(Morra Aarons-Mele)是洛杉矶的一个小企业主。她说，她“用肉毒杆菌去除了天生的皱眉线”，这样人们就不会再问：“你生气了？”“然后人们对我更温和了——我发誓真是这样，”她说。
Ms. Tarr, after being told by a mentor that her scowl was “setting her back” at work, began taking pictures of her face so she could try to look more cheerful. “I have since trained myself on what my face feels like,” she said.
一位导师告诉塔尔她的怒容“妨碍”工作后，她开始给自己的脸拍照，以便自己能尽量看起来高兴一点。“从那以后，我就训练自己注意自己的表情给人的感觉。”
There is some science behind it. Dr. Anthony Youn, a cosmetic surgeon in Detroit, said that as we age, the corners of our mouths droop, causing us to look a little more grumpy — a natural response to gravity and genetics.
这是有科学依据的。安东尼·杨(Anthony Youn)是底特律的整形外科医生。他说，随着年龄增长，我们的嘴角会下垂，会看起来更加怒气冲冲，这是重力和基因的自然结果。
In mild cases, this has the capacity to make a person look less cheerful when their face is resting. But in “severe cases,” said Dr. Youn, it can cause the face to look “mean, angry, and give people a false perception of what our mood is.”
轻微的天生臭脸在面无表情时，会看起来比实际情况更不高兴。但是，杨医生说，“严重的天生臭脸”，会让一个人看起来“刻薄、愠怒，情绪遭人误解”。
“The mouth tends to denote a lot of expression,” said Dr. Scot Bradley Glasberg, the president of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
“嘴巴往往能表达很多情绪，”美国整形外科医生协会(American Society of Plastic Surgeons)主席斯科特·布拉德利·格拉斯伯格(Scot Bradley Glasberg)说。
But RBF is not a problem merely of the old. It matters at all ages because, as science has long proved, humans make judgments based on facial cues. Studies have found that people are less likely to find friendly looking faces guilty of crimes; people who look “happy” are generally deemed more trustworthy, too.
但是，天生臭脸综合征不只是老年人的问题。对各个年龄段的人来说，它都是个问题，长久以来，科学已经证明，人类根据面部表情进行判断。研究表明，面相友好者不大会被认为是坏人；看起来“高兴”的人通常被认为更值得信赖。
And yet: men do not experience RBF, at least not by name.
不过，男人们没有天生臭脸综合征的问题，至少从这个术语的英文名上看是这样。
“When a man looks stern, or serious, or grumpy, it’s simply the default,” said Rachel Simmons, an author and leadership consultant at Smith College. “We don’t inherently judge the moodiness of a male face. But as women, we are almost expected to put on a smile. So if we don’t, it’s deemed ‘bitchy.’ ”
“如果一个男人看起来严厉、严肃或暴躁，我们会认为这是正常情况，”作家、史密斯学院的领导力顾问蕾切尔·西蒙斯(Rachel Simmons)说，“我们没有根据男人的表情判断他们情绪的习惯。但是，几乎所有人都期望女人脸上挂着笑容。如果我们没笑，就被认为‘不好相处’。” 
“I like RBF,” Ms. Simmons said. “I think it’s fun to say. I think it can be empowering to own a serious face. But the problem with it lies with the fact that there is no male equivalent.”
“我喜欢天生臭脸综合征，”西蒙斯说，“我觉得这么说挺好玩的。我觉得有一张严肃的脸能给人威严的感觉。但问题是，男人没有天生臭脸综合征这回事。”
For many years, studies have determined that women do tend to smile more than men, but not necessarily because they’re happier (in fact, they suffer higher rates of depression). Nancy Henley, a cognitive psychologist, has theorized that women’s frequent smiling stems from their lower social status (she called the smile a “badge of appeasement”). Still others have pointed out that women are more likely to work in the service sector, where smiling is an asset.
但是，多年来，很多研究都表明，女人的确比男人更爱笑，不一定是因为她们更高兴（实际上，女性抑郁的比例更高）。认知心理学家南希·亨利(Nancy Henley)认为，女人更常微笑是因为她们的社会地位较低（她把这种微笑称为“妥协的标识”）。不过，其他一些研究指出，女人们更多地是在服务业工作。在服务行业，微笑是一个优点。
And yet there is also a kind of ingrained association between women and the friendly face. The phrase “Stop telling women to smile” has become a rallying cry for the movement against street harassment. Studies have found that smiling babies are more likely to be labeled female, while men view serious women as less sexually attractive than those who look friendly (the opposite of how women view men).
不过，女人和面善之间有一种根深蒂固的联系。“不要再要求女人微笑”已经成了反街头性骚扰运动的集会口号。研究发现，爱笑的婴儿更可能被认为是女孩，而男人们认为，严肃的女人没有看起来友好的女人性感（女人对男人的看法正好相反）。
“One of my biggest pet peeves is when people come up to me in a social setting, where I am having fun, and ask, ‘Are you O.K.?’ ” said Talia Cuddeback, a junior at Barnard who suffers from RBF and wonders why she has to smile all the time just to show she isn’t angry.
“我的一个最大的烦恼是，我在社交场合玩得正高兴的时候，有人走近我，问道，‘你还好吧？’”塔莉娅·卡德巴克(Talia Cuddeback)说。她是巴纳德学院(Barnard)的大三学生，也受到天生臭脸综合征的困扰，她不明白为什么仅仅为了表明她没生气就得一直微笑。
Meredith Fineman, a 28-year-old founder of a public relations firm in New York, said she has perfected the art of her business smile during meetings “so that I come across authoritative but also accessible,” she said. (“I’m also very careful of not smiling too much,” she said, “as I am often afraid of seeming cloying or ditsy.”
28岁的梅雷迪思·法恩曼(Meredith Fineman)是纽约一家公关公司的创始人。她说，她已熟练掌握如何在商务会议上保持职业笑容，“这样我显得既权威又可亲，”她说（“我也非常小心，不让自己笑得太多，”她说，“因为我也常常担心，笑得太多会让人腻烦或者显得蠢”）。
Dr. Sherelle Laifer-Narin, a radiology professor at Columbia University Medical Center, said that she has mastered the art of the emphatic smile, which she plasters across her face during staff meetings to avoid the question: “Is everything O.K.?”
谢蕾尔·拉菲-纳林博士(Sherelle Laifer-Narin)是哥伦比亚大学医学中心(Columbia University Medical Center)的放射学教授。她说，她已经掌握了灿然微笑的方法，在教职工会议上，她总是一脸笑容，以免有人问她：“一切还好吧？”
“During the first lecture of the year for my residents, I make sure to let all the first years know that I don’t bite, just bark, even if my facial expressions might indicate otherwise,” she said.
“在给住院医生的第一节课上，我确保让所有新来的人知道，我会吼人但不会咬人，即使我的面部表情可能给人别的印象，”她说。
And then there are those who rebuff the concept altogether.
也有人完全否定天生臭脸综合征这个概念。
“It doesn’t make me feel like I’m unhappy, un-fun or unpleasant,” said Noelle Wyman, 19, a junior at Columbia. “My RBF makes me feel serious, pensive and reserved, like someone who only engages those who deserve it.”
“它没让我觉得自己不高兴、无趣或者不愉快，”19岁的哥伦比亚大学大三学生诺埃尔·怀曼(Noelle Wyman)说，“我的天生臭脸让我感觉自己严肃、凝重、内敛，不会跟谁都打成一片。”
Who has the energy to smile to strangers all day, anyway?
毕竟，谁有精力成天对陌生人微笑？