TUCSON
图森
Caitlin McCormick
凯特琳·麦考密克(Caitlin McCormick)
When it comes to service workers, as a society we completely disregard the manners instilled in us as toddlers.
每当面对服务业从业者，我们这个社会上的人会完全无视自己年幼时被灌输的礼仪。
For seventeen years, I have awoken to those workers, to clinking silverware rolled in cloth and porcelain plates removed from the oven in preparation for breakfast service. I memorized the geometry of place mats slid on metal trays, coffee cups turned downward, dirtied cloth napkins disposed on dining tables.
过去17年里，我一醒来就会注意到这样的服务人员，注意到准备供应早餐期间裹在餐布里的叮当作响的餐具，以及从烤箱中取出的瓷盘。我会记得餐具垫被放在金属托盘里的形状、咖啡杯被倒扣以及弄脏了的布餐巾被撂在餐桌上的样子。
I knew never to wear pajamas outside in the public courtyard, and years of shushing from my mother informed me not to speak loudly in front of a guest room window. I grew up in the swaddled cacophony of morning chatter between tourists, professors, and videographers. I grew up conditioned in excessive politeness, fitted for making small talk with strangers.
我知道永远不要穿着睡衣走到外边的公共庭院里；我母亲年复一年发出的嘘声让我明白，不能在客房的窗前高声说话。我成长于游客、教授和摄像师晨间压低声音闲聊的嘈杂声中。在长大成人的过程中，我习惯了那种适用于与陌生人寒暄的过度礼貌。
I grew up in a bed and breakfast, in the sticky thickness of the hospitality industry. And for a very long time I hated it.
我是在一个提供住宿和早餐的客栈里，在有着厚重的酒店业氛围的环境里长大的。有很长一段时间我对此颇为憎恶。
I was late to my own fifth birthday party in the park because a guest arrived five hours late without apology. Following a weeklong stay in which someone specially requested her room be cleaned twice a day, not once did she leave a tip for housekeeping. Small-business scammers came for a stop at the inn several times. Guests stained sheets, clogged toilets, locked themselves out of their rooms, and then demanded a discount.
我曾经没能准时去公园参加自己的五岁生日派对，只因为一位客人迟到了五个小时，而且连声道歉都欠奉。某个人住店一周，专门要求其房间每天打扫两次，却没有留过一次整理房间的小费。诈骗小企业的人光顾过几回。客人把床单弄脏，把厕所弄堵，把自己锁在房间外，然后要求打折。
There exists between service workers and their customers an inherent imbalance of power: We meet sneers with apologies. At the end of their meal, or stay, or drink, we let patrons determine how much effort their server put into their job.
服务业从业者和客人之间存在天然的权力失衡：我们用道歉应对冷嘲热讽。我们让顾客在他们吃喝住宿之后自行决定，服务人员在提供服务上有多用心。
For most of my life I believed my parents were intense masochists for devoting their existences to the least thankful business I know: the very business that taught me how to discern imbalances of power. Soon I recognized this stem of injustice in all sorts of everyday interactions. I came to understand how latent racism, sexism, classism and ableism structure our society — how tipping was only a synonym for “microaggression.”
在生命的大部分时间里，我都觉得我父母是极端的受虐狂，他们把自己的一生献给了我所知的最不讨好的生意：也是教会我如何辨别权力失衡的生意。很快，我就在各种日常交往中注意到这种不公平。我开始明白，潜在的种族主义、性别歧视、阶级歧视和残障歧视如何充斥我们的社会——给小费如何只是“微歧视”的一个同义词。
I became passionate. Sometimes enraged. I stumbled upon nonprofits, foundations, and political campaigns. I canvassed for Senate candidates, phone-banked for grass-roots action groups, served as a board member for the Women’s Foundation of Southern Arizona, reviewed grant applications for nonprofits and organized events for the nearby children’s hospital.
我变得狂热起来。有时还很愤怒。因为偶然的机缘，我加入了非营利组织、基金会和政治运动。我给参议员候选人拉票，给草根行动团体接听电话，担任南亚利桑那州女性基金会(Women’s Foundation of Southern Arizona)的董事会成员，审核非营利组织的经费申请，还为附近的儿童医院组织活动。
I devoted my time to the raw grit of helping people, and in the process I fell irrevocably in love with a new type of service: public service. At the same time, I worked midnight Black Friday retail shifts and scraped vomit off linoleum. When I brought home my first W-2, I had never seen my parents so proud.
我把自己的时间投入到帮助别人的历练之中，在这个过程中，我义无反顾地爱上了一种新型的服务：公共服务。与此同时，我也做着黑色星期五的夜班零售工作，清理油毡毯上的呕吐物。当我把自己的第一份工资单拿回家时，从没见父母那么自豪过。
The truth, I recently learned, was that not all service is created equal. Seeing guests scream at my parents over a late airport taxi still sickens me even as I spend hours a week as a volunteer. But I was taught all work is noble, especially the work we do for others. Slowly, my mother’s gingham apron began to look more like metal armor. I learned how to worship my parents’ gift for attentive listening, easily hearing the things guests were incapable of asking for — not sugar with their tea, but somebody to talk with while they waited for a conference call. I envied their ability to wear the role of self-assured host like a second skin, capable of tolerating any type of cruelty with a smile.
我最近发现的事实是，并非所有的服务都是天生平等的。看到客人因为接机出租车迟到而对我的父母大叫大嚷，仍然让我感到厌恶，尽管我每周也会花数小时时间做志愿者。但我从中学到的是，所有的工作都是高贵的，尤其是我们为他人做的工作。慢慢地，我母亲的格子布围裙看起来也更像金属盔甲了。我知道了如何欣赏父母细心倾听的天赋，他们很容易就能明白客人没有准确提出的要求——不是给他们的茶里加糖，而是在他们等待一个电话会议时能有人跟他们聊天。我羡慕他们能那么自然地扮演胸有成竹的东道主角色，能带着微笑忍受各种恶言。
Most of all, I admired my parents’ continuous trust in humanity to not abuse their help. I realized that learning to serve people looks a lot like learning to trust them.  
最重要的是，我钦佩父母一直相信人性，相信人们不会对不起他们提供的帮助。我意识到，学习给人们提供服务和学会相信他们极其相似。