“No more prostitutes,” Annabelle Gurwitch says as we swill our pinot grigio in the lobby bar of the Shutters hotel in Santa Monica, Calif. “It’s tragic. Playing prostitutes used to be my specialty.” The actress/author and I are gleefully debating everything in life we must leave behind now that we’re over 50, and everything we must embrace.
“我不要再演妓女了，”安娜贝尔·格尔维奇(Annabelle Gurwitch)说道，当时我们正在加州圣塔莫妮卡的沙塔斯酒店大堂酒吧里喝着灰皮诺葡萄酒。“太惨了。演妓女一度成了我的专业。”我同这位演员、作家开心地讨论起，年过50之后，我们应当去接受生活中的哪些东西，又应当把什么东西彻底忘在脑后。
There is much we disagree on. For example, I tell her, and I’m sure this is deeply comforting, that she’s still totally believable as a prostitute. But regarding clothing, we reach a consensus. No to frilled collars and rompers (“unless I’m playing a prisoner or a mental patient”), yes to Eileen Fisher. “Her clothes give you authority,” Ms. Gurwitch says. “You look like an elder statesman in a sci-fi movie about a dystopian future.”
我们之间有许多分歧。比如说，我告诉她（我敢肯定这非常令她感到安慰），她现在再来演妓女仍然令人信服。但在衣着方面我们达成了共识——对流苏领子和连身裤说“不”（“除非我要扮演囚犯或者精神病人才会穿”），对艾琳·费雪(Eileen Fisher)说“好”。“她设计的衣服给你一种权威感，”格尔维奇说。“让你看上去好像反乌托邦未来科幻电影里的政界元老。”
While there are many things Ms. Gurwitch thinks she can’t get away with anymore, she knows there is one thing she can pull off beautifully: a heinous crime. “Because as a woman over 50 in L.A., I’m invisible,” she says cheerfully.
格尔维奇觉得，有很多事情很难做到侥幸成功，但是有一件事她可以优雅地去完成：一桩穷凶极恶的罪行。“在洛杉矶，作为一个年过50的女人，我就是个隐身人，”她开心地说。
“That’s ridiculous,” I reply, as a waiter ignores frantic signals for a second bottle.
“太可笑了，”我回答，这时我们想再点一瓶酒，但我们把手快挥断了侍者也没看见。
Annabelle Gurwitch is a funny woman, as anyone who has read of her previous struggles with being sacked (“Fired!”) and being married (“You Say Tomato, I Say Shut Up”) can attest. In her latest book, “I See You Made an Effort: Compliments, Indignities, and Survival Stories From the Edge of 50” (Blue Rider Press), she tackles aging, not just as a millstone but a milestone. She writes about what she calls “the 50s moments.”
安娜贝尔·格尔维奇是个有趣的女人，看过她写的书就能明白，比如她在《解雇！》(Fired!)中描写被解雇时做的斗争，还有《你说西红柿，我说闭嘴》(You Say Tomato, I Say Shut Up)里关于婚姻的挣扎。在她的新书《我看到你的努力了：来自50岁边缘的赞美、侮辱与生存故事》（I See You Made an Effort: Compliments, Indignities, and Survival Stories From the Edge of 50，Blue Rider Press出版社）里面，她探讨了年老这个问题，年老不是“看上去好像是一种累赘”，它就是一种累赘。她在书中描写她意识到“自己已经50岁了”的那些时刻。
Knowing, for example, that the language you reserved for great literature is now applicable to skin creams: (“I used to say Proust had a profound effect on my life. Now it’s Crème de Mer”). Or when you realize that your fantasies about younger men are no longer the snaked-hipped rock star, but the guy at the Apple Genius Bar who understands your electronic devices. It’s the selling of your parents’ home; the realization that your teenager is too embarrassed to make eye contact with you in public; but most of all, it’s the connoisseurship of disease. “When I was young, I knew there was cancer, and I knew it was bad,” she says. “But now I’ve become a person who knows there are ‘bad’ cancers and ‘good’ cancers. It’s like: ‘Oh, pancreatic cancer, I’m so sorry. Basal cell skin cancer — congratulations!’ ”
比如说，发现自己过去用来形容伟大文学的那些字眼现在都用在润肤霜上的时候（“我曾经说普鲁斯特对我的生活有着深远影响，现在有深远影响的是海蓝之谜面霜”）。还有发现自己幻想中的年轻男人不再是阴险忧郁的摇滚明星，而是苹果天才吧里能弄懂你的电子设备的小伙子。还有卖掉父母房子的时刻；意识到你青春期的儿女在公共场合与你对视觉得尴尬的时刻；但最要命的就是你成了品鉴疾病的专家。“年轻时我知道有癌症，我知道它是坏的，”她说。“但是现在我知道了有‘坏的’癌症和‘好的’癌症。比方说：‘啊，胰腺癌，我太难过了。基细胞皮肤癌？——恭喜你！’”
At the center of the book is a serious question: How are we supposed to age? She convincingly argues that there is no longer a template. Recalling that her own mother became a grandmother at 50, she says: “She was very proud to be a grandmother. You could call her matronly, and she was happy. Now, if someone called me matronly. ... Oh my God!”
全书中有这样一个严肃的问题：我们应当怎样老去？她令人信服地说，如今已经不再有标准模版了。她回忆自己的母亲在50岁就当上了祖母：“成为祖母令她非常骄傲。如果你说她是可敬的老妇人，她会非常高兴。现在，如果有人说我是可敬的老妇人……我的天哪！”
Now, too, because so many of us waited until our 30s and 40s to have babies, we are simultaneously caring for young children and old parents, while still being expected to be fit, dewy and Botoxed as we stare into the abyss. Even that abyss has become clouded with unforeseen complexities. Ms. Gurwitch recounts a hilariously awful night, helping with the assisted suicide of a terminally ill friend. It should have been a period of solemn peace. Instead, as the friend was headed toward the white light, “I had to shake her awake because everyone had forgotten to ask her her computer password.”
还有，如今我们很多人都直到三四十岁才生孩子，所以就要同时照顾小孩和年老的双亲，同时还希望保持身材优美、皮肤润泽，在凝视深渊之时打一剂肉毒杆菌。哪怕面前的深渊笼罩着不可预知、错综复杂的云雾。格尔维奇回忆自己在一个又可笑又可怕的夜晚，去照顾一个病入膏肓、接受安乐死的朋友。那本应是一个庄严平静的时刻。结果，当那个朋友正向着濒死白光走去的时候。“我不得不把她摇醒，因为所有人都忘了问她她的电脑密码是什么。”
Ms. Gurwitch did not expect that aging would bring with it this kind of wallop; she pretty much took Deborah Harry’s 1979 tune “Die Young Stay Pretty” as her personal anthem. She grew up Jewish in the South, descended from fur trappers and bootleggers: “They called us ‘colorful’, which in the South is code for ‘a family filled with crime.’ ” He father made and lost several fortunes, so there were a lot of hasty retreats, financial uncertainty that may have nevertheless provided useful lessons in reinvention. In 1980, she left Florida for New York City and the Experimental Theater Wing at N.Y.U., which consisted of “a lot of pot-smoking, massage and moving through space.”
格尔维奇本来没有想到年老会带来这样的障碍，她一度把黛博拉·哈里(Deborah Harry)1979年的《年轻就死，保持漂亮》(Die Young Stay Pretty)当做自己的主题歌。她是个犹太人，在南方长大，是毛皮猎人和私酒贩子的后代。“他们说我们是‘带色的’，在南方，这意思就是‘充满罪恶的家庭’。”她的父亲发过几次财，也破过几次产，所以她经历过许多匆匆逃跑和经济上的不稳定，这对她重塑自我的才能无疑很有帮助。1980年，她离开佛罗里达，来到纽约市，参加了纽约大学的体验话剧团，剧团里都是些“抽大麻的、做按摩的，得勉强从他们中间穿行”。
The actress Felicity Huffman, who, like Ms. Gurwitch, is over 50, recalled that they “were at a lot of auditions together.”
女演员菲丽赛迪·霍夫曼(Felicity Huffman)和格尔维奇一样年过50，她回忆她们当年“一起去试过很多镜”。
“She seemed like the quintessential pretty, cool, chic New York girl, but then you get to know her and you had this bonus of weirdness,” said Ms. Huffman, who noted that her own estrogen levels are so low she can’t remember the PIN on her debit card.
“她看上去完全是个又酷又漂亮的时髦纽约女孩，了解她以后，你才发现她其实还很古怪，”霍夫曼说；她还说自己的雌激素水平已经太低，现在已经完全记不清自己借记卡的密码。
When Ms. Gurwitch eventually moved to Los Angeles in 1989, movie and TV roles (if not stardom) abounded. Then, in 2003, Woody Allen fired her from his Off Broadway flop “Writer’s Block.” That devastating yet amusing experience grew into a theater piece, a book and then a documentary, in which both stars and civilians recounted their best getting-canned stories. Ms. Gurwitch then gathered more hyphens as an author, NPR commentator, filmmaker, activist and guest humorist on chat shows.
1989年，格尔维奇搬到洛杉矶，得到大量电影和电视角色（虽然没有成为明星）。2003年，伍迪·艾伦聘请她，在他的外百老汇失败之作《写作障碍》(Writer’s Block)中出演角色。这段可怕而又有趣的经验最后不仅成了一部话剧，也成了一本书，后来又成了一部纪录片，片中明星和平民们对着镜头回忆自己最精彩的被炒鱿鱼经历。之后格尔维奇得到了许多身份：作家、NPR评论员、导演、社会活动家和谈话秀节目中的客座谐星。
She still loves to perform, but she has no illusions about which way her career, and life, are headed.
她仍然热爱表演，但她对面前的事业与生活之路已经不再抱有不切实际的幻想。
“Years ago in New York, I was playing a lady-in-waiting in ‘The Red Snake,’ an updated Jacobean tragedy by the beat poet Michael McClure,” she says. “There were stunts in the play, and I had to wear kneepads under my velvet gown. I was handed a pair — last worn by Meryl Streep — they crossed out her name and Sharpied mine in. And that is the closest I’ve ever gotten, or will get, to working with her.”
“多年前在纽约，我曾经在垮掉派诗人迈克尔·麦克卢尔(Michael McClure)的《红蛇》(The Red Snake)里表演一个总是在等待的女人，这是一个升级版的雅各式悲剧，”她说。“剧中有许多夸张的表演，我得在丝绒长袍底下穿着护膝。有人给了我一付，是梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)穿过的，他们把她的名字划掉，把我的名字用水笔写上去。这就是我这辈子和她最密切的一次合作，以后也就是这样了。”
Ms. Gurwitch considers herself primarily a writer now (and a “schlepper”— she and her husband, the television writer Jeff Kahn, live in Los Angeles with a teenage son who still doesn’t drive). But actual stardom has eluded her.
如今，格尔维奇首先把自己当成一个作家（以及一个“载体”——她和丈夫，电视编剧杰夫·卡恩[Jeff Kahn]与十几岁的儿子一起住在洛杉矶，儿子目前还不能开车）。但是真正的大红大紫总是与她擦肩而过。
In her new book, she says: “I have a chapter called Hollywood Adjacent, because when you get to a certain age, if you’re not already a star making a tremendous amount of money, you’re just not in that universe. I can still work as an actress, but I’d still never be in Hollywood. Hollywood is a machine to build the careers of very young people.”
在新书里，她写道：“有一章名叫‘临近好莱坞’，因为当你到了特定的年龄，如果还没有当上明星，赚到大钱，你就根本没有进入那个宇宙体系。我现在仍然可以当演员，但我仍然永远无法进入好莱坞。好莱坞是一台为年轻人打造演艺生涯的机器。”
When her pal Bill Maher emails me to say she’s been remarkably calm about turning 50 “perhaps because she looks 30,” she shoots back: “He’s lying. I cried at dinner with him when I started writing this book, and he got all scared because he thought people at the other tables would think he was making me cry.”
她的朋友比尔·马尔(Bill Maher)给我写电子邮件，说她对年届50这件事非常平静，或许是因为“她看上去就像30岁”，她反唇相讥：“他瞎说。刚开始写这本书的时候，我有一次和他共进晚餐的时候哭了起来，他吓坏了，担心别的桌的人以为是他把我弄哭的。”
Still, as she puts it: “This fake idea that 40 is the new 30, or 50 is the new 40, has come up to bite us on the behind. If you’re 50, you’re not 40. There’s just a difference. You know it inside.” Ms. Gurwitch contemplates her empty glass. “I know the phrase was meant to say, ‘Oh, many things are possible for you,’ but it also raises expectations — and negative ones, in my opinion. Because you are a different person, and if you don’t recognize that, you’re missing the opportunity for both misery and for joy that can be had by taking the opportunities of this landmark age.”
正如她指出的：“那种认为‘40岁就是新的30岁，50岁就是新的40岁’的虚假观念正在反噬我们。如果你是50岁，那你就不再是40岁。二者之间是有区别的，你自己心里清楚。”格尔维奇对着空玻璃杯，若有所思地说：“我知道这句话的意思是，‘啊，还有很多可能发生的事等着你，’但它也提高了期望值——在我看来，也带来消极的东西。因为你已经成为一个完全不同的人，如果你不认识到这一点，你就会错过这个标志性的年纪为你带来的痛苦与欢乐。”
Oh, there it is. Finally!
啊，终于！
Our second bottle arrives.
我们的第二瓶酒终于来了。