SÃO PAULO, Brazil — According to CNN, there are no introverts in Brazil. “It’s a vivacious culture that can bring you out of your shell, help you unwind and have the best time of your life,” reads an article about visiting Brazil, which also highlights our country’s loud conversations, blaring car horns and “sound trucks blasting advertisements through the neighborhood from 16 speakers.”
巴西圣保罗——据CNN报道，巴西没有性格内向的人。“充满活力的文化可以让你不再害羞，帮你放开怀抱享受大好人生，”一篇关于到巴西旅行的文章这样写道。文章还着力描绘了我们国家嘈杂的交谈、震耳欲聋的汽车喇叭，以及“装着16个扬声器，在住宅区里猛播广告的宣传车”。
This is, of course, like any attempt to reduce a whole culture to a few lines, a stereotypical and lazy portrait of us. But there’s some truth in it. Here, as in other parts of the world, extroverts make so much noise that nobody else has the chance to be heard.
当然，就像任何一种将整个文化简化为寥寥数笔的做法一样，这篇文章对巴西人的勾画，也是一幅刻板、不大用心的肖像。但它也道出了某些实情。和世界上的其他地方一样，在这里，性格外向的人制造出太多噪音，以至于其他人的声音根本无法让人听见。
In “Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking,” the American writer Susan Cain says that introversion “is now a second-class personality trait, somewhere between a disappointment and a pathology,” while extroversion is “turned into an oppressive standard to which most of us feel we must conform.” Extroverts have set up their rules and asked us to follow; therefore all Brazilians must be vivacious and friendly, kissing strangers as much as possible and dancing forró like there’s no tomorrow.
美国作家苏珊·凯恩(Susan Cain)在《安静：内向性格的竞争力》(Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking)一书里说过，内向“目前是一种二流的人格特质，介于沮丧和病态之间”，而外向则“变成了一种压迫性的标准，我们大多数人都认为自己必须遵守”。外向者建立了他们自己的规则，还要求我们去遵守；因此，全体巴西人都必须活泼、友好，尽可能多地亲吻陌生人，仿佛没有明天似的大跳弗乐舞(forró)。
This is especially contradictory when applied to my career. If you’ve chosen to be a writer, as I have, it probably means you enjoy being alone and expressing yourself in writing. Of course it doesn’t necessarily imply that you are a hermit, but it means, for sure, that socializing should be optional. Not an integral part of your career.
这与我的职业尤为冲突。如果你像我一样选择当作家，就意味着你喜欢独处，通过写作表达自我。当然，这并不代表你要当个隐士，而是说社交并非必不可少。它不是你职业生涯中不可分割的一部分。
But I’m told exactly the opposite, year after year. So let’s be clear about this: Giving lectures, engaging in literary events and going on book tours are not my job. My job is sitting on a chair and writing. All the rest may be beneficial to my “public image” or my books’ sales, but it’s not obligatory. (Ask J.D. Salinger, Harper Lee, Thomas Pynchon, Marcel Proust or Gustave Flaubert.)
但年复一年，我所听到的完全相反。所以，我想厘清一下：发表演讲、参加文学活动、巡回推介新书并不是我的工作。我的工作就是坐在椅子上写字。其他所有事情或许对我的“公众形象”或者书的销量有帮助，但并不是一定要做的。（去问问J·D·塞林格[J. D. Salinger]、哈珀·李[Harper Lee]、托马斯·品钦[Thomas Pynchon]或者居斯塔夫·福楼拜[Gustave Flaubert]吧。）
And yet the Internet is full of networking tips, warning that “good writing skills and original ideas aren’t enough to make you a success in this business. You need kick-ass marketing skills, too.” Others talk about the “promotional demands of a successful writing career.”
然而，充斥在互联网上的一些人脉贴士却警告，“要在这件事上取得成功，只有良好的写作技巧和独到的见解还不够。你还需要强大的营销技巧。”还有一些谈到了“成功写作事业的推广需求”。
Even Ms. Cain, the ultimate advocate for introverts, had to convince her publisher that she was pseudo-extrovert enough to promote “Quiet.” She endured a year of public-speaking classes before going on her book tour and giving a lecture at a TED conference. In her book, she mentions a very common feeling among introverts: While driving to present a seminar, she found herself “praying for calamity — a flood or a small earthquake, maybe — anything so I don’t have to go through with this.”
就连凯恩这位内向人群的终极代言人，也不得不设法让她的出版商相信，为了推广《安静》这本书，她可以伪装出足够外向的人格。在参加巡回售书活动，以及在TED大会上发表演讲之前，她足足用了一年时间学习公开演讲课程。凯恩在自己的书里提到了内向者常常会体验到的一种感受：驾车去某个研讨会发表讲话的途中，她发现自己“一直在祈祷发生一场灾难来临——洪水、小规模地震什么的，那样我就不用去做这件事了。”
I know what she means. I sometimes tell myself that I may die before my next public speaking appointment, and this is a soothing thought.
我明白她的意思。有时候我会跟自己说，我也许在下一次公开演讲前就死掉了。这是一种自我安慰的想法。
I’ve always been shy. I never enjoyed attending loud parties with too many children. During class breaks, I preferred reading and listening to music. Since kindergarten, I’ve been told that this was a problem and that I needed to change. In high school, I was told by a counselor that I would never succeed in life unless I looked people in the eye. (She was clearly a mutant alien who wanted to feed on my soul, and I wasn’t falling for it.) Once I was playing volleyball and she took me aside just to give me a harsh written warning, saying that if my “antisocial” behavior continued, I’d be suspended for two days. I suppose being able to play team sports didn’t count.
我一直很害羞。从不喜欢和太多小孩一起参加吵闹的派对。课间休息时，我更喜欢看书、听音乐。从进幼儿园开始，人们一直告诉我这是一个问题，我得做出改变。上高中时，一位辅导员跟我说，如果不能直视别人的眼睛，那我这辈子都无法取得成功。（她显然是个变种的外星人，想要吃掉我的灵魂，我可不喜欢这样。）有一次，她在我打排球时把我拉到一边，给了我一份严厉的书面警告，说如果我继续做出“反社会”的行为，就会被停课两天。看来有能力参加团体运动还不够。
I got my revenge when I wrote a graphic novel, inspired by her, whose plot employed some innocent Rube Goldberg machines.
我被她激发出灵感，创作了一本漫画小说，以自己方式完成了复仇。故事情节中出现了一些幼稚而繁琐的机械。
It’s likely that I’ve always been this way. According to research by Jerome Kagan, then a Harvard psychologist, people’s temperament is detectable very early in life and is likely to be partly inherited. In this sense, introversion is best understood as a kind of hypersensitivity. Babies who kicked and screamed more in the face of outside stimulation — those who, in other words, were highly sensitive to it — were likely to grow up to be introverts, he found. Less reactive babies, who needed more stimulation to get them interested and involved, had a bias toward becoming extroverts. This is “the long shadow of temperament,” as he titled his 2004 book, written with Nancy Snidman.
我似乎一直就是这个样子。根据哈佛大学心理学家杰罗姆·凯根(Jerome Kagan)的研究，一个人的气质在很小的时候就有迹可循，在某种程度上可能是遗传而来。从这层意义上说，最好把内向理解成一种过于敏感的现象。他发现，面对外部刺激时会踢打、尖叫的婴儿——换句话说，就是对外部刺激敏感的那些——很可能成长为内向的人。至于反应比较小的、需要有更多刺激才能让他们感兴趣并投入感情的婴儿，则有可能成长为外向的人。就像他与南茜·斯尼德曼(Nancy Snidman)在2004年出版的一本书的标题所说的，这就是“气质的阴暗面”。
Introversion is not an illness, a social flaw that demands to be cured or concealed. Despite still not looking people in the eye, I’ve managed to live and work as I please. I’ve just assumed that society’s demands for mingling and socializing at all costs were annoyances that I must regard as facts of life.
内向不是一种疾病，不是一种需要治疗或者掩盖的社交缺陷。尽管仍然不能看着别人的眼睛，但我做到了按照自己喜欢的方式生活和工作。我把这个社会所提出的，不惜代价进行应酬和交际的要求，当成了生活中必然存在的各种烦恼中的一种。