Last Sunday, Nicholas Kristof wrote a column about Dylan Farrow, the adopted daughter of Woody Allen and Mia Farrow. Mr. Allen has written the following response to the column and Dylan’s account.
上周日，纪思道(Nicholas Kristof)写了一篇关于迪兰·法罗(Dylan Farrow)的专栏文章。迪兰是伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)和米亚·法罗(Mia Farrow)的养女。艾伦对这篇文章和迪兰的表述做了如下回应。
TWENTY-ONE years ago, when I first heard Mia Farrow had accused me of child molestation, I found the idea so ludicrous I didn’t give it a second thought. We were involved in a terribly acrimonious breakup, with great enmity between us and a custody battle slowly gathering energy. The self-serving transparency of her malevolence seemed so obvious I didn’t even hire a lawyer to defend myself. It was my show business attorney who told me she was bringing the accusation to the police and I would need a criminal lawyer.
21年前，当我第一次听到米亚指控我猥亵儿童时，我觉得这个说法特别荒谬，根本没有多加考虑。我们当时陷入了一场非常不愉快的分手，两人之间存在很大的敌意，争夺孩子抚养权的战斗也在慢慢地积蓄能量。她的恶意非常明显地是出于自我打算，所以我甚至没有聘请专门的律师来为自己辩护。还是我的娱乐业务律师告诉我，她已经向警方提出控告，我将会需要一名刑事律师。
I naïvely thought the accusation would be dismissed out of hand because of course, I hadn’t molested Dylan and any rational person would see the ploy for what it was. Common sense would prevail. After all, I was a 56-year-old man who had never before (or after) been accused of child molestation. I had been going out with Mia for 12 years and never in that time did she ever suggest to me anything resembling misconduct. Now, suddenly, when I had driven up to her house in Connecticut one afternoon to visit the kids for a few hours, when I would be on my raging adversary’s home turf, with half a dozen people present, when I was in the blissful early stages of a happy new relationship with the woman I’d go on to marry — that I would pick this moment in time to embark on a career as a child molester should seem to the most skeptical mind highly unlikely. The sheer illogic of such a crazy scenario seemed to me dispositive.
我天真地认为，控告将会以不予考虑而告终，因为我没有猥亵迪兰，而且任何理性的人都会看出那个花招的实质。常识会获胜的。毕竟，我已经是一个56岁的男人，此前（或之后）从未受到过猥亵儿童的控告。我和米亚在一起那时已经有12年了，在这段时间里，她从来没有向我暗示过我有任何类似不端的行为。突然之间，当我某天下午开车到她位于康涅狄格州的家中和孩子们一起玩几个小时的时候，当我在愤怒的对手的地盘上，有六、七个旁人在场的时候，当我处于和我后来结婚的女人充满喜悦的恋爱早期时，我竟然会选择这种时机来开始我作为猥亵儿童者的生涯，这对最持怀疑态度的人来说，应该非常之不可能。如此奇怪的情节完全不合逻辑，在我看来这是法律上起决定作用的地方。
Notwithstanding, Mia insisted that I had abused Dylan and took her immediately to a doctor to be examined. Dylan told the doctor she had not been molested. Mia then took Dylan out for ice cream, and when she came back with her the child had changed her story. The police began their investigation; a possible indictment hung in the balance. I very willingly took a lie-detector test and of course passed because I had nothing to hide. I asked Mia to take one and she wouldn’t. Last week a woman named Stacey Nelkin, whom I had dated many years ago, came forward to the press to tell them that when Mia and I first had our custody battle 21 years ago, Mia had wanted her to testify that she had been underage when I was dating her, despite the fact this was untrue. Stacey refused. I include this anecdote so we all know what kind of character we are dealing with here. One can imagine in learning this why she wouldn’t take a lie-detector test.
尽管如此，米亚坚称我骚扰了迪兰，并立即把她带到医生那里接受检查。迪兰告诉医生自己没有被猥亵。后来，米亚带迪兰出去吃了冰激凌。回来后，孩子改变了自己的说法。警方开始进行调查，一份可能的起诉书悬而未决。我非常情愿地接受了测谎仪测试，当然也通过了，因为我没有什么可隐瞒的。我请米亚也接受测试，但她不愿意。上周，我多年前约会过的一位名叫斯泰茜·尼尔金(Stacey Nelkin)的女子主动站出来对媒体说，在米亚和我21年前争夺监护权时，米亚曾想让斯泰茜出庭作证，说我和她约会时她尚未成年，尽管事实并非如此。斯泰茜拒绝了。我在这里讲这段小故事，是为了让大家知道我们要对付的是什么样的人品。知道这个后，人们可以想象她为什么不愿接受测谎仪的测试了。
Meanwhile the Connecticut police turned for help to a special investigative unit they relied on in such cases, the Child Sexual Abuse Clinic of the Yale-New Haven Hospital. This group of impartial, experienced men and women whom the district attorney looked to for guidance as to whether to prosecute, spent months doing a meticulous investigation, interviewing everyone concerned, and checking every piece of evidence. Finally they wrote their conclusion which I quote here: “It is our expert opinion that Dylan was not sexually abused by Mr. Allen. Further, we believe that Dylan’s statements on videotape and her statements to us during our evaluation do not refer to actual events that occurred to her on August 4th, 1992... In developing our opinion we considered three hypotheses to explain Dylan’s statements. First, that Dylan’s statements were true and that Mr. Allen had sexually abused her; second, that Dylan’s statements were not true but were made up by an emotionally vulnerable child who was caught up in a disturbed family and who was responding to the stresses in the family; and third, that Dylan was coached or influenced by her mother, Ms. Farrow. While we can conclude that Dylan was not sexually abused, we can not be definite about whether the second formulation by itself or the third formulation by itself is true. We believe that it is more likely that a combination of these two formulations best explains Dylan’s allegations of sexual abuse.”
与此同时，康涅狄格州警方向他们在处理此类案件时所依赖的专业调查机构寻求帮助，也就是耶鲁-纽黑文医院(Yale-New Haven Hospital)的儿童性侵诊所(Child Sexual Abuse Clinic)。地方检察官在决定是否提起诉讼时，寻求这个公正而且经验丰富的专家小组的指导，该专家小组花了数月时间做了一丝不苟的调查，与所有有关人员进行了面谈，检查了每一个证据。他们最后得出的书面结论我引述如下：“我们的专家意见是迪兰没有遭到艾伦先生的性侵犯。此外，我们还认为录像带上迪兰的表述以及在我们进行调查期间她对我们做的表述指的都不是1992年8月4日实际发生在她身上的事情……。在形成这个意见的过程中，我们考虑了三个能解释迪兰表述的假设。第一个假设是，迪兰的表述是真实的，艾伦确实性侵犯了她；第二个假设是，迪兰的表述是不真实的，是一个由于家庭矛盾而感情易受伤害的孩子编出来的，她这么做是对家庭中应激因素的反应；第三个假设是，迪兰受到其母亲法罗的指导或影响。虽然我们的结论认为迪兰没有遭到性侵犯，但我们无法确定第二个假设或第三个假设能分别单独成立。我们认为更可能的是，这两个假设的组合能最好地解释迪兰认为自己被性侵犯的主张。”
Could it be any clearer? Mr. Allen did not abuse Dylan; most likely a vulnerable, stressed-out 7-year-old was coached by Mia Farrow. This conclusion disappointed a number of people. The district attorney was champing at the bit to prosecute a celebrity case, and Justice Elliott Wilk, the custody judge, wrote a very irresponsible opinion saying when it came to the molestation, “we will probably never know what occurred.”
还能比这更清楚的吗？艾伦没有性侵迪兰；最可能的是一个脆弱的、承受了巨大压力的7岁小孩受了法罗的指导。这个结论让一些人失望。地方检察官急不可待地想办一件起诉名人的案子，审理监护权案子的埃利奥特·维尔克(Elliott Wilk)法官曾写下一份十分不负责任的意见称，就性侵犯案而论，“我们可能永远不知道发生了什么。”
But we did know because it had been determined and there was no equivocation about the fact that no abuse had taken place. Justice Wilk was quite rough on me and never approved of my relationship with Soon-Yi, Mia’s adopted daughter, who was then in her early 20s. He thought of me as an older man exploiting a much younger woman, which outraged Mia as improper despite the fact she had dated a much older Frank Sinatra when she was 19. In fairness to Justice Wilk, the public felt the same dismay over Soon-Yi and myself, but despite what it looked like our feelings were authentic and we’ve been happily married for 16 years with two great kids, both adopted. (Incidentally, coming on the heels of the media circus and false accusations, Soon-Yi and I were extra carefully scrutinized by both the adoption agency and adoption courts, and everyone blessed our adoptions.)
但是我们知道，因为这个案子已有定论，而且定论对事实毫不含糊其辞：没有发生性侵犯。维尔克法官对我的态度非常不好，他一直不赞成我和米亚的养女宋宜(Soon-Yi)的关系，当时宋宜20出头。他认为我是那种利用比自己年轻很多的女子的老男人。我和宋宜的关系也让米亚大为恼怒，认为不恰当，尽管米亚自己在19岁时曾与比她大得多的弗兰克·西纳特拉(Frank Sinatra)一起生活过。为维尔克法官说句公道话，公众对我和宋宜之间的关系感到同样的诧异，但不管当时看上去怎样，我们之间的感情是真实的，而且我们已经结婚16年了，生活快乐，还收养了两个很好的孩子。（顺便提一下，在媒体的喧闹和不实指控之后领养孩子，我和宋宜受到了收养机构和收养法庭额外仔细的审查，他们都祝福了我们的收养。）
Mia took custody of the children and we went our separate ways.
米亚得到了孩子们的监护权，我们分道扬镳了。
I was heartbroken. Moses was angry with me. Ronan I didn’t know well because Mia would never let me get close to him from the moment he was born and Dylan, whom I adored and was very close to and about whom Mia called my sister in a rage and said, “He took my daughter, now I’ll take his.” I never saw her again nor was I able to speak with her no matter how hard I tried. I still loved her deeply, and felt guilty that by falling in love with Soon-Yi I had put her in the position of being used as a pawn for revenge. Soon-Yi and I made countless attempts to see Dylan but Mia blocked them all, spitefully knowing how much we both loved her but totally indifferent to the pain and damage she was causing the little girl merely to appease her own vindictiveness.
我很伤心。摩西(Moses)曾对我很生气。罗南我不是很了解，因为米亚从他一出生就不让我接近他。迪兰深为我宠爱，我和她很亲近，米亚在一次发怒给我妹妹打电话时这样提到迪兰：“他带走了我女儿，现在我要带走他的。”我再也没见过迪兰，也再也没和她说过话，不管我如何地努力尝试。我依然深爱着她，我也很内疚，因为我和宋宜相爱，让迪兰处于被当成报复工具的境地。宋宜和我为见迪兰做过无数次尝试，但都因遭到米亚阻碍而未能成功，她是出于恶意，她知道我们都很爱迪兰，她完全不顾这样做给那个小女孩带来的痛苦和伤害，只是为了她自己的存心保复。
Here I quote Moses Farrow, 14 at the time: “My mother drummed it into me to hate my father for tearing apart the family and sexually molesting my sister.” Moses is now 36 years old and a family therapist by profession. “Of course Woody did not molest my sister,” he said. “She loved him and looked forward to seeing him when he would visit. She never hid from him until our mother succeeded in creating the atmosphere of fear and hate towards him.” Dylan was 7, Ronan 4, and this was, according to Moses, the steady narrative year after year.
在此我引述摩西·法罗(Moses Farrow)14岁时的话：“我母亲反复给我灌输要仇恨父亲，因为他撕裂了这个家庭，还性侵了我的妹妹。”摩西如今已经36岁了，以家庭心理治疗师为职业。他说，“伍迪当然没有性侵我妹妹。她很爱他，每次他要来时，她都很期待见到他。在我们的母亲成功地制造了一种恐惧和仇恨他的气氛之前，她从来都不躲着他。”那时，迪兰7岁，罗南4岁，据摩西说，这种灌输年复一年地不断重复。
I pause here for a quick word on the Ronan situation. Is he my son or, as Mia suggests, Frank Sinatra’s? Granted, he looks a lot like Frank with the blue eyes and facial features, but if so what does this say? That all during the custody hearing Mia lied under oath and falsely represented Ronan as our son? Even if he is not Frank’s, the possibility she raises that he could be, indicates she was secretly intimate with him during our years. Not to mention all the money I paid for child support. Was I supporting Frank’s son? Again, I want to call attention to the integrity and honesty of a person who conducts her life like that.
我在这里停下来简单说说罗南的情况。他是我的儿子吗？还是像米亚暗示的那样，是弗兰克·西纳特拉的儿子？不错，他很像弗兰克，尤其在蓝眼睛和面部特征上，但如果确实是那样，又说明了什么呢？在整个监护权听证期间，米亚在宣誓说真话后撒谎，欺骗性地称罗南为我们的儿子？即使他不是弗兰克的儿子，她提出罗南可能是的这种可能性本身就说明，她在我们一起生活的那些年里仍在与弗兰克偷情。就别提我付出的子女抚养费了。我一直在抚养弗兰克的儿子吗？我要再一次唤起人们对一个在生活中这样表现的人的正直与诚实的注意。
NOW it’s 21 years later and Dylan has come forward with the accusations that the Yale experts investigated and found false. Plus a few little added creative flourishes that seem to have magically appeared during our 21-year estrangement.
现在，21年过去了，迪兰主动提起那些指控，那些被耶鲁专家调查过并发现为不实的指控。再添上一点似乎是神奇般地出现在我们分手后21年中的有创意的夸张。
Not that I doubt Dylan hasn’t come to believe she’s been molested, but if from the age of 7 a vulnerable child is taught by a strong mother to hate her father because he is a monster who abused her, is it so inconceivable that after many years of this indoctrination the image of me Mia wanted to establish had taken root? Is it any wonder the experts at Yale had picked up the maternal coaching aspect 21 years ago? Even the venue where the fabricated molestation was supposed to have taken place was poorly chosen but interesting. Mia chose the attic of her country house, a place she should have realized I’d never go to because it is a tiny, cramped, enclosed spot where one can hardly stand up and I’m a major claustrophobe. The one or two times she asked me to come in there to look at something, I did, but quickly had to run out. Undoubtedly the attic idea came to her from the Dory Previn song, “With My Daddy in the Attic.” It was on the same record as the song Dory Previn had written about Mia’s betraying their friendship by insidiously stealing her husband, André, “Beware of Young Girls.” One must ask, did Dylan even write the letter or was it at least guided by her mother? Does the letter really benefit Dylan or does it simply advance her mother’s shabby agenda? That is to hurt me with a smear. There is even a lame attempt to do professional damage by trying to involve movie stars, which smells a lot more like Mia than Dylan.
不是我怀疑迪兰已经相信她曾被性侵犯过，如果一个脆弱的孩子从7岁起就被强势的母亲教育要恨自己的父亲，因为他是一个曾性侵犯那个孩子的恶魔，那么在米亚灌输这个概念这么多年之后，她想要制造的这种我的形象在孩子的脑海中生根还会令人难以置信吗？难怪耶鲁的专家在21年前就不费力地发现这件事中有母亲指导的因素？就连捏造的性侵犯所谓的发生地点也是个失败的选择，但却颇有意思。米亚选择了她乡下房子的阁楼，她应该意识到，我从来不会去那里，因为那是一个很窄小的封闭空间，在里面很难站直，而我是严重的幽闭恐惧症患者。有一两次，她叫我去那里看点什么，我去了，但很快就得跑出来。毫无疑问，她这个阁楼的想法来自多里·普雷文(Dory Previn)的那首歌“和我的爸爸在阁楼里”(With My Daddy in the Attic)。这首歌和多里·普雷文的另一首歌“小心年轻女孩”(Beware of Young Girls)在同一张唱片上，后者是多里·普雷文因为米亚背叛了她们之间的友谊、阴险地偷走了自己的丈夫安德烈(André)所写的。人们必须要问的是，究竟是迪兰自己写了那封信呢？还是那封信至少部分地是在她母亲的引导下写的？那封信真能给迪兰带来好处吗？还是其不过是为了她母亲达到其卑鄙目的的手段？她的目的就是用诽谤来损害我。信中还有一个试图制造职业伤害的坡脚企图，试图把电影明星牵扯进来，这更像是米亚的所做而不是迪兰的。
After all, if speaking out was really a necessity for Dylan, she had already spoken out months earlier in Vanity Fair. Here I quote Moses Farrow again: “Knowing that my mother often used us as pawns, I cannot trust anything that is said or written from anyone in the family.” Finally, does Mia herself really even believe I molested her daughter? Common sense must ask: Would a mother who thought her 7-year-old daughter was sexually abused by a molester (a pretty horrific crime), give consent for a film clip of her to be used to honor the molester at the Golden Globes?
毕竟，如果把事情大胆地说出来对迪兰来说真的很必要的话，她早在几个月前就对《名利场》(Vanity Fair)说出来了。这里我再次引用摩西·法罗的话：“鉴于我母亲经常把我们当卒子使用，我不能相信家里任何人说的任何话或写的任何东西。”最后，难道米亚本人真的相信我性侵犯了她的女儿吗？有点常识的人必然会问：一位认为自己7岁大的女儿被性侵犯的母亲（性侵犯是相当令人毛骨悚然的罪行），会同意让自己的一个电影片段被用在金球奖(Golden Globes)上奖励那个性侵者的场合吗？
Of course, I did not molest Dylan. I loved her and hope one day she will grasp how she has been cheated out of having a loving father and exploited by a mother more interested in her own festering anger than her daughter’s well-being. Being taught to hate your father and made to believe he molested you has already taken a psychological toll on this lovely young woman, and Soon-Yi and I are both hoping that one day she will understand who has really made her a victim and reconnect with us, as Moses has, in a loving, productive way. No one wants to discourage abuse victims from speaking out, but one must bear in mind that sometimes there are people who are falsely accused and that is also a terribly destructive thing. (This piece will be my final word on this entire matter and no one will be responding on my behalf to any further comments on it by any party. Enough people have been hurt.)
我当然没有性侵犯迪兰。我爱她，也希望她有朝一日能明白：她是怎样被欺骗而远离了爱她的父亲，被那个对自己扭曲的愤怒更感兴趣、而不关心女儿的身心健康的母亲所利用的。被教导仇恨自己的父亲并被迫相信他性侵犯了自己，已经给这个可爱的年轻女子造成了心理上的负面影响，宋宜和我都希望有那么一天，她能明白究竟是谁让她成为受害者，从而能与我们重新建立联系，正如摩西已经做出的那样，以充满爱和正能量的方式。没有人要阻止受害者大胆地站出来，但人们必须记住，有时候对某人的指控是不实的，那也是具有极大伤害力的事情。（这篇文章是我对整个事件要说的最后的话，没有任何人将代表我对任何进一步的评论做出回应。受伤害的人已经足够多了。）