Jennifer Boles lives in a two-bedroom apartment in a brutalist high-rise on Peachtree Road. This stark, bunkerlike setting is worth noting because Ms. Boles, 41, is the creator of the Peak of Chic design blog, a love letter to — nay, an epic poem in celebration of — the sort of effusive, ebullient and, yes, very traditional decorating practiced by Dorothy Draper, Nancy Lancaster, Albert Hadley and Sister Parish, among other 20th-century greats. A more stark contrast between Ms. Boles’s highly embellished, high-gloss interiors, with their faux finishes, leopard prints, tufted wallpaper and Porthault sheets, and the building’s gritty concrete skin can hardly be imagined.
詹妮弗·博尔斯(Jennifer Boles)那套两居室公寓位于桃树街(Peach Road)的一栋野兽派风格的大厦里。这处僵硬的地堡式设计之所以引人注目，是因为41岁的博尔斯开设了一个名为“时髦巅峰”(Peak of Chic)的设计博客。它就像一封情书——不，更像是一首长诗，献给活跃在20世纪的那些著名的室内设计大师，比如桃乐茜·德雷帕（Dorothy Draper，美国第一家室内设计公司的创办者、现代巴洛克风格的先行者和开拓者——译注），南希·兰开斯特（Nancy Lancaster，英国著名室内设计师——译注），阿尔伯特·哈德利（Albert Hadley，著名室内设计师——译注）和茜斯特·帕里斯（Sister Parish，著名室内设计师，曾受杰奎琳·肯尼迪之邀为白宫做室内装饰——译注）等，以此赞美他们那种热情洋溢而又不失古韵的装饰风格。博尔斯用人造涂饰、豹纹、植绒壁纸和Porthault（法国高级床上用品品牌——译注）的床单打造出光鲜亮丽的室内家居，与整栋建筑冰冷坚硬的水泥外墙形成鲜明对比，反差之大，让人难以想象。
And yet, she said, “The beauty of these apartments is they are basically boxes, and you can do whatever you like to them: You can make them midcentury modern or take them in a completely different direction.”
然而她却说，“这些公寓单元也有美丽之处，那就是它们基本都是四四方方的，能让你随心所欲地进行设计：可以装修成二十世纪中期流行的现代风格，也可以是完全不同的路数。”
In 2008, Ms. Boles was newly divorced when she bought the apartment for about $350,000. The previous owner had put in crown moldings, and in the front hall, mirrored walls and black-and-white tiles. But the place was mostly in original condition: parquet floors (good) and a popcorn ceiling (bad). She did have to scrape off that ceiling, as well as the pea-green shag carpeting that covered the bedroom and bathroom floors like some particularly tenacious mold.
2008年，刚离婚不久的博尔斯以35万美元（约合人民币212万元）的价格买下了这套公寓。虽然先前的房主装了冠型吊顶线，在前厅弄了镜墙、铺了黑白瓷砖，但房子基本上还保留着原有的风貌：镶木地板（这还不错）和拉毛粉刷的天花板（这就很糟了）。最终她不得不刮掉天花板的涂层，并撤掉那浅绿色的粗毛地毯，因为这东西铺在卧室和浴室的地面，看着就像是生命力顽强的霉菌。
Then she began to assemble the touchstones of her decorating heroes: from Elsie de Wolfe, a leopard print carpet; from Rose Cumming, trompe l’oeil tufted wallpaper; from Albert Hadley, Trixie wallpaper (for a blog post, she once photographed a “Wallis Blue” cocktail: gin and blue curaçao, named for Mrs. Simpson, against that paper, which looks like red asterisks on a cream background). There is fabric by Tony Duquette on the screens behind her living room sofa, and her dining room door is upholstered in blue leather, a nod to Dorothy Draper, who is perhaps Ms. Boles’s biggest hero.
然后，她就开始从自己的装修偶像那里寻找灵感了：美国演员兼室内设计师艾尔西·德·沃尔夫(Elise De Wolfe)，让她想到豹纹地毯；罗丝·卡明(Rose Cumming)，为她带来错视画风格的植绒壁纸；阿尔伯特·哈德利(Albert Hadley)则让她想起特里克茜壁纸(Trixie wallpaper)（她的博客上有一组以辛普森夫人命名的、由杜松子酒和蓝色库拉索酒调配成的“沃利斯蓝”鸡尾酒的照片，就是以此壁纸为底衬拍摄的，看起来就像奶油色背景上的点点红色星号）。她还从托尼·杜奎特（Tony Duquette，好莱坞知名设计师——译注）那里得到启发，在客厅沙发后的墙上挂起织物；而将餐厅的门包上蓝色皮革，是在向桃乐茜·德雷帕致敬，她可能是博尔斯最崇拜的室内设计大师了。
A modern European history major in college, the Atlanta-born Ms. Boles had long been fascinated by the period between the World Wars. She read Dorothy L. Sayers and Georgette Heyer, binged on ’30s movies and collected decorating magazines from that time. The blog started by accident, she said, in September of 2006, when she put up a photograph from a 1936 House and Garden. She was riffling through her magazine collection and was piqued by the chinoiserie elements in an Armstrong linoleum ad.
博尔斯出生于亚特兰大(Atlanta)，在大学期间主修欧洲现代史的她，一直对两次世界大战之间的那段历史颇感兴趣。多萝西·L·塞耶斯(Dorothy L. Sayers)的书她读过，乔吉特·海尔(Georgette Heyer)的书她也看过；她迷恋上世纪三十年代的老电影，还喜欢搜集那个时代的装饰杂志。她说，2006年9月的时候，她把一张从1936年的一期《住宅与花园》(House and Garden)上看到的照片放到博客上，无意中也就开启了自己的博主生涯。当时，她正飞快翻阅手中的杂志，当看到阿姆斯特朗油毯(Armstrong linoleum)的广告里带有中国风的元素时，心里产生了一丝不悦。
“The floor had this neat key design,” Ms. Boles recalled. “And on the walls, there were red lacquer brackets with blanc de chine and a Chinese Chippendale fretwork banister. Fretwork! That was my first post. I don’t think anybody noticed.”
“地板上是那种干净整齐的图案设计，”博尔斯回忆道，“而墙壁上是红色的漆器托架，镶着中国白瓷，还有一件带有中国风格的齐本德尔式浮雕细工栏杆。竟然用浮雕细工！那是我的第一篇博客，不过我觉得那会儿没人会注意到它。”
But a blog is an enabler for those like Ms. Boles, who need a place where they can chase their scholarship and obsessions down all manner of rabbit holes. If you, too, were interested in apple-green satin upholstery, Sèvres milk pails, spaniel paintings, slipper chairs, black walls, Cole Porter, Keith Irvine, and Colefax and Fowler, the Peak of Chic quickly became required reading.
但是博客却为博尔斯这样的人提供了一个平台，在其中，他们可以相互交流心得，也可以追逐自己的爱好。范围之广，无所不包：苹果绿的绸缎面料、塞夫尔（Sevres，法国巴黎近郊的市镇，皇家瓷器厂所在地——译注）的牛奶桶、西班牙猎犬的画像、矮脚软垫椅、黑色墙壁、科尔·波特（Cole Porter，美国著名男音乐家——译注）、基斯·欧文(Keith Irvine)，以及Colefax and Fowler（知名装修公司——译注）。如果你对这些也很感兴趣，“时髦巅峰”很快就会成为你必读之物。
As the blog grew, Ms. Boles quit her day job working for her father in his newspaper equipment company (he has since forgiven her) and began writing and lecturing on design. And last month, Potter Style published her first book. “In With the Old: Classic Décor from A to Z” will tell you everything you ever wanted to know about campaign furniture, tole and faux bois as well as how to wrap your books in vibrant red paper to create visual harmony on your bookshelves. (That’s a Nancy Lancaster trick.)
随着自己的博客受到越来越多的关注，博尔斯放弃了原来的工作——在父亲那家经营报纸设备的公司帮忙（他已经原谅了她），开始进行有关设计方面的写作和演讲。上个月，“波特风格”（Potter Style，皇冠出版集团旗下主做工艺类图书的副牌——译注）出版了她的第一本书：《与旧时光同在：经典装饰一本通》(In With the Old: Classic Décor from A to Z)。如果你想了解旅行家具、马口铁制品和人造木香，或是想知道如何用鲜亮的红纸做书皮，而不至于使自家书架产生视觉违和感（这也是南希·兰开斯特常用的技巧），这本书都能给你想要的答案。
When Stephen Drucker was editor in chief of House Beautiful and discovered the Peak of Chic, he quickly made Ms. Boles a contributor, perhaps the first time a decorating magazine had seriously acknowledged a blogger, he said.
当斯蒂芬·德鲁克(Stephen Drucker)还在创刊于1896年的著名室内装修杂志《美丽家居》(Beautiful Household)做主编时，就发现了“时髦巅峰”这个博客。很快，他就开始请博尔斯为其撰稿。这可能是装饰杂志第一次认真审视一位博主的作品，他说。
“Jennifer isn’t the usual facile love-love-love decorating blogger,” Mr. Drucker added. “She’s a serious student of decorating history. Her head is filled with photos of rooms, and she sees patterns among them that no one else sees. She’s like Claire Danes in ‘Homeland,’ but for living rooms.”
“詹妮弗不是那种普通的室内装修类博主，只会简单写些‘博主最爱’之类的东西，”德鲁克说，“她是个认真研习装修史的学生，脑子里装满各种房间的照片，所以，她能从这些照片中看出别人看不出来的风格。就像克莱尔·丹尼斯(Claire Danes)在《国土安全》(Homeland)里扮演的角色一样，只不过她的特长是在居室装修方面罢了。”