FORT LEAVENWORTH, Kan. — WHEN I chose to disclose classified information in 2010, I did so out of a love for my country and a sense of duty to others. I’m now serving a sentence of 35 years in prison for these unauthorized disclosures. I understand that my actions violated the law.
堪萨斯州莱文沃思堡——2010年，当我选择泄露机密信息时，是出于对祖国的热爱及对他人的责任感。目前，我因为在未经授权的情况下泄露机密而被判刑35年。我知道，我的行为触犯了法律。
However, the concerns that motivated me have not been resolved. As Iraq erupts in civil war and America again contemplates intervention, that unfinished business should give new urgency to the question of how the United States military controlled the media coverage of its long involvement there and in Afghanistan. I believe that the current limits on press freedom and excessive government secrecy make it impossible for Americans to grasp fully what is happening in the wars we finance.
然而，当初促使我泄露机密的疑虑仍然没有得到解决。随着伊拉克爆发内战，美国再次考虑插手干涉，这个未被完成的任务应该再次提醒人们注意， 针对媒体对美国军队在伊拉克以及阿富汗的长期行动的报道，军方进行了怎样的控制。我认为，目前对言论自由的限制，以及政府的过分保密使美国人不可能完全了解我们所资助的这些战争的情况。
If you were following the news during the March 2010 elections in Iraq, you might remember that the American press was flooded with stories declaring the elections a success, complete with upbeat anecdotes and photographs of Iraqi women proudly displaying their ink-stained fingers. The subtext was that United States military operations had succeeded in creating a stable and democratic Iraq.
如果你关注过伊拉克2010年3月的选举，你可能会记得，当时美国媒体充斥着宣称选举是个胜利的报道，里面有着令人振奋的轶事，以及伊拉克女性骄傲地向人们展示她们蘸有墨水的手指的照片。其言下之意是，美国的军事行动已经成功地建立了一个稳定而民主的伊拉克。
Those of us stationed there were acutely aware of a more complicated reality.
我们这些驻扎在那里的人非常清楚，现实更加复杂。
Military and diplomatic reports coming across my desk detailed a brutal crackdown against political dissidents by the Iraqi Ministry of Interior and federal police, on behalf of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. Detainees were often tortured, or even killed.
我经手的军事和外交报告详细地讲述了伊拉克内政部和联邦警察在总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的指使下，对政治异见人士所进行的残酷打压。被扣押的人往往会受到拷打，甚至被杀。
Early that year, I received orders to investigate 15 individuals whom the federal police had arrested on suspicion of printing “anti-Iraqi literature.” I learned that these individuals had absolutely no ties to terrorism; they were publishing a scholarly critique of Mr. Maliki’s administration. I forwarded this finding to the officer in command in eastern Baghdad. He responded that he didn’t need this information; instead, I should assist the federal police in locating more “anti-Iraqi” print shops.
当年早些时候，我接到命令，要对15人进行调查。这些人当时因为涉嫌印制“反伊拉克作品”而被联邦警察逮捕。我发现，这些人绝对与恐怖主义没有任何联系；他们只是在发行针对马利基政府的学术批评文章。我把这个结果转给了负责东巴格达的指挥官。他回答道，他不需要这个信息；相反，我应该协助联邦警察确认更多的“反伊拉克”印刷所的地点。
I was shocked by our military’s complicity in the corruption of that election. Yet these deeply troubling details flew under the American media’s radar.
我们的军队对选举中的腐败行为的参与让我感到震惊。然而，美国媒体却没有发现这些让人非常不安的细节。
It was not the first (or the last) time I felt compelled to question the way we conducted our mission in Iraq. We intelligence analysts, and the officers to whom we reported, had access to a comprehensive overview of the war that few others had. How could top-level decision makers say that the American public, or even Congress, supported the conflict when they didn’t have half the story?
这并不是我第一次（也不是最后一次）觉得有必要质疑我们在伊拉克执行任务的方式。我们这些情报分析师以及作为我们汇报工作的对象的官员能够对战争进行全面了解，其他人则很少拥有这种机会。如果美国公众，乃至国会根本不了解故事的另一面，高层决策者怎么能说他们支持这场冲突？
Among the many daily reports I received via email while working in Iraq in 2009 and 2010 was an internal public affairs briefing that listed recently published news articles about the American mission in Iraq. One of my regular tasks was to provide, for the public affairs summary read by the command in eastern Baghdad, a single-sentence description of each issue covered, complementing our analysis with local intelligence.
2009年和2010年，我在伊拉克工作期间，每天都会通过电子邮件收到许多报告，其中有一种内部公共事务简报，上面罗列着最近刊发的关于美国在伊行动的新闻报道。我的一项常规任务就是撰写公共事务总结，用一句话描述报道中提到的每件事，并用当地情报来补充我们的分析。这些总结供位于巴格达东部的指挥部阅读。
The more I made these daily comparisons between the news back in the States and the military and diplomatic reports available to me as an analyst, the more aware I became of the disparity. In contrast to the solid, nuanced briefings we created on the ground, the news available to the public was flooded with foggy speculation and simplifications.
通过每天比较美国国内的新闻报道和我作为分析师能够取得的军事和外交报道，我越来越清楚其中的差异。与我们在战地撰写的证据确凿、措辞推敲的简报相比，公众所能看到的新闻报道则充满了模糊的猜测和简化的叙事。
One clue to this disjunction lay in the public affairs reports. Near the top of each briefing was the number of embedded journalists attached to American military units in a combat zone. Throughout my deployment, I never saw that tally go above 12. In other words, in all of Iraq, which contained 31 million people and 117,000 United States troops, no more than a dozen American journalists were covering military operations.
公共事务报告中的一个线索就可以让我们感受到这种差距。每份简报的顶部附近都写着在某个作战区，有多少记者在跟随美国部队进行报道。我在这里驻扎期间，从来没见过人数超过12的情况。换句话说，在拥有3100万人口和11.7万名美国士兵的伊拉克全境，只有不超过12名美国记者在报道军事行动。
The process of limiting press access to a conflict begins when a reporter applies for embed status. All reporters are carefully vetted by military public affairs officials. This system is far from unbiased. Unsurprisingly, reporters who have established relationships with the military are more likely to be granted access.
限制媒体对战斗进行报道的过程，从记者申请随军采访时就开始了。军方的公共事务官员会对所有记者进行仔细核查，这个系统远远称不上公正。和军方关系深厚的记者更有可能获得许可，这并不令人惊讶。
Less well known is that journalists whom military contractors rate as likely to produce “favorable” coverage, based on their past reporting, also get preference. This outsourced “favorability” rating assigned to each applicant is used to screen out those judged likely to produce critical coverage.
更鲜为人知的是，如果军方承包商的雇员参考记者过去的报道，评价某个记者可能写出“正面”报道，他也会更受青睐。这种“正面报道”评分是由外包人员进行的。通过每个申请人的“正面报道”评分，那些被认为很可能写出负面报道的记者就会被剔除。
Reporters who succeeded in obtaining embed status in Iraq were then required to sign a media “ground rules” agreement. Army public affairs officials said this was to protect operational security, but it also allowed them to terminate a reporter’s embed without appeal.
接着，军方会要求获准随军采访的记者签署一项媒体“战地准则”协议。军方公共事务官员称，这样做是为了保证军事行动的安全，但该协议还赋予了他们终止记者的随军身份，且不得申诉的权力。
There have been numerous cases of reporters’ having their access terminated following controversial reporting. In 2010, the late Rolling Stone reporter Michael Hastings had his access pulled after reporting criticism of the Obama administration by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his staff in Afghanistan. A Pentagon spokesman said, “Embeds are a privilege, not a right.”
有许多记者因为争议性的报道而被终止随军身份。已故的《滚石》(Rolling Stone)杂志记者迈克尔·黑斯廷斯(Michael Hastings)在2010年报道，斯坦利·A·麦克里斯特尔上将(Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal)及他在阿富汗的参谋批评奥巴马政府。之后，他就被取消了进入战地的资格。国防部一名发言人说，“随军报道是一种优待，而非权利。”
If a reporter’s embed status is terminated, typically she or he is blacklisted. This program of limiting press access was challenged in court in 2013 by a freelance reporter, Wayne Anderson, who claimed to have followed his agreement but to have been terminated after publishing adverse reports about the conflict in Afghanistan. The ruling on his case upheld the military’s position that there was no constitutionally protected right to be an embedded journalist.
如果某位记者的嵌入身份被终结，她或他往往也会被列入黑名单。2013年，自由撰稿记者韦恩·安德森(Wayne Anderson)在法院对这种限制媒体进入战地的做法提起诉讼。他声称自己遵守了协议，但是在发表了关于阿富汗战争的不利报道之后，有关方面便结束了他的随军记者身份。法院的裁决结果对军方的立场表示了支持，称宪法中没有保护成为随军记者的权利的相关内容。
The embedded reporter program, which continues in Afghanistan and wherever the United States sends troops, is deeply informed by the military’s experience of how media coverage shifted public opinion during the Vietnam War. The gatekeepers in public affairs have too much power: Reporters naturally fear having their access terminated, so they tend to avoid controversial reporting that could raise red flags.
目前，美国继续在阿富汗及其他美国军队驻地开展“随军记者”项目。该项目源于美国军队的经历——越战期间，媒体报道曾促使公众舆论发生转变。公共事务方面的守门人有太多权力：记者当然担心自己的特权被终止，因此，他们往往避免发表可能引来红牌的争议性报道。
The existing program forces journalists to compete against one another for “special access” to vital matters of foreign and domestic policy. Too often, this creates reporting that flatters senior decision makers. A result is that the American public’s access to the facts is gutted, which leaves them with no way to evaluate the conduct of American officials.
当下这个项目迫使记者互相竞争，争取获得报道有关外交及国内政策重要事宜的“特殊权限”。这通常会带来一些讨好高层决策者的报道。结果，美国公众了解事实的渠道遭到破坏，因此，他们无法评判美国官员的表现。
Journalists have an important role to play in calling for reforms to the embedding system. The favorability of a journalist’s previous reporting should not be a factor. Transparency, guaranteed by a body not under the control of public affairs officials, should govern the credentialing process. An independent board made up of military staff members, veterans, Pentagon civilians and journalists could balance the public’s need for information with the military’s need for operational security.
记者在要求对随军报道系统进行改革方面有着重要角色。记者之前的报道是否有利不应该成为考虑因素之一。应由一个不受公共事务官员控制的机构保障透明度，整个认证过程都应保持透明。一个由军队人员、退伍军人、五角大楼文职人员及记者组成的独立委员会能够平衡公众的信息需求与军队的行动安全要求。
Reporters should have timely access to information. The military could do far more to enable the rapid declassification of information that does not jeopardize military missions. The military’s Significant Activity Reports, for example, provide quick overviews of events like attacks and casualties. Often classified by default, these could help journalists report the facts accurately.
记者应该拥有及时获取信息的渠道。军方可以采取更多举措，来快速解密那些不会威胁军队任务的信息。例如，军队的《重要行动报告》(Significant Activity Reports)提供了有关袭击及伤亡事件等事宜的简要概述。这些通常被默认为机密文件的报告能够帮助记者精确地报道事实。
Opinion polls indicate that Americans’ confidence in their elected representatives is at a record low. Improving media access to this crucial aspect of our national life — where America has committed the men and women of its armed services — would be a powerful step toward re-establishing trust between voters and officials.
民意调查显示，美国人对他们所选出的代表的信心已经跌至历史最低水平。增加媒体报道国计民生的关键方面的渠道，将会是重建选民与官员之间的信任关系的有力举措。而这些关键方面包括对美国将士的调遣及使用事宜。