When Krista Powell boarded a ferry at the southern tip of Manhattan early Sunday to head to the starting line of her first New York City Marathon, she expected to spend some quiet moments taking in the city’s skyline. Then she looked to her left.
周日一大早，克丽丝塔·鲍威尔(Krista Powell)在曼哈顿岛南端登上一艘渡轮，前往起点线参加她此生的第一次纽约市马拉松赛(New York City Marathon)，此刻她希望能安安静静地欣赏一下城市的天际线。然后她将视线转向左边。
There in the New York Harbor next to her ferry was a Coast Guard boat. On its bow was what several marathoners described as a machine gun, manned by a uniformed man who looked ready to shoot.
在这艘停泊在纽约港内的渡轮旁有一艘海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)的船。照着许多马拉松选手的说法，摆在船头是一挺机关枪，由一个穿着制服的男人控制着，随时准备开火的状态。
“It was kind of shocking, but then I remembered what happened in Boston,” Powell said, recalling the two bombs that went off near the finish line of the Boston Marathon in April, killing three people and injuring more than 260. “To see a huge gun on the boat next to us, that wasn’t expected. It was kind of drastic, but, unfortunately, it’s just what has to be done after people destroy an event for other people.”
“有点吃了一惊，但是很快我就想起波士顿的事了，”鲍威尔说，她说的是4月在波士顿马拉松赛终点附近两枚炸弹爆炸的事件，当时造成三人死亡，260多人受伤。“在我们旁边的船上有一把大枪，这是挺出乎意料的。感觉有些极端了，但不幸的是，在一些人把另一些人的活动给毁掉以后，也就只能这么做了。”
This is the modern American sporting event, desperately trying to find a way to make big crowds safe crowds without letting armed forces steal the show. It isn’t easy.
这就是现代美国的体育活动，要竭尽全力找到一种保障人群安全的手段，同时又不能让全副武装的人员成为主角。这并非易事。
Sunday’s New York City Marathon, the first since the Boston bombings, included measures to keep the marathoners and race spectators safe.
周日的纽约市马拉松赛是自波士顿爆炸案后的首个马拉松赛，为了保障参赛选手和观众的安全，采取了许多手段。
Ferries received armed escorts. A battalion of bomb-sniffing dogs roamed the course and the adjacent sidewalks, sniffing backpacks, bags and even baby carriages.
渡轮得到了武装护航。赛道和路边人行道上到处可见炸弹嗅探犬，背包、手袋甚至婴儿车都要闻个遍。
Runners were checked with metal detectors as they entered the starting area at Fort Wadsworth on Staten Island.
参赛者在进入位于史泰登岛沃兹沃思堡的出发区之前，需要通过金属探测器的检查。
For many miles of the five-borough course, blue police tape warned spectators to stay on the sidewalk, as if it were a 26.2-mile crime scene. Near the finish line, it was a near police state.
马拉松全程会经过五个城区，其中相当一部分路程的两边拉起了蓝色的警戒带，警告观众只能站在人行道上，仿佛这是一个26.2英里（约合42.3公里）的罪案现场。终点线附近则几乎已经成为警察国家。
It didn’t mean that the winners weren’t celebrated, or that personal dreams were not fulfilled with many strides and a few grimaces. But can we expect people to be truly festive when they’re being watched?
这倒不至于导致获胜者因此得不到称颂，或者无法经过长时间的奋力奔跑和痛苦煎熬得到个人梦想的实现。只是在这样的监视之下，人们还能高兴得起来吗？
Runners and spectators were conflicted: the extra security provided some peace of mind, but they said it’s a shame we’ve come to this.
参赛者和观众的内心是矛盾的：加强戒备让他们感到安心，但他们说落到这步田地实在是个遗憾。
Eliav Benjamin, a diplomat who lives in Washington, D.C., said, “It wasn’t a bother at all,” before letting out a little laugh. “But that’s only because I’m from Israel.”
身居华盛顿的外交官伊利亚夫·本亚明(Eliav Benjamin)说，“这对我完全没影响，”然后微微一笑。“但那只是因为我是以色列人。”
Is it a good or bad sign that the marathon, which not long ago was a grass-roots affair for a band of enthusiasts in Central Park, is being compared to Israel, where security measures are likely the strictest in the world? Good that the city is protecting the marathoners and spectators. Bad that something that used to be such a relaxed community gathering has to respect the possibility of violence ruining the day.
就在不久之前，这个赛事还只是一帮爱好者在中央公园举办的草根活动，如今已经拿来和安保措施之严厉可能冠绝全球的以色列相比了，这算好事还是坏事？好的一面是纽约市在保护马拉松选手和观众。坏的一面是，这个曾经轻松随意的社区集会，如今也要认真对待被暴力破坏的可能性了。
Dave Obelkevich, who has run every New York City Marathon since 1976 — a record streak — recalled how close the fans got to the runners in 1976, the first time the marathon branched out of Manhattan to touch all five boroughs.
戴夫·奥贝尔凯维奇(Dave Obelkevich)自1976年起参加了每一届纽约市马拉松赛，保持着连续参赛的纪录，他回忆起1976年时参赛者和观众的距离是多么接近，当时是这项赛事首次扩大到曼哈顿以外的全部五个城区。
Coming off the Queensboro Bridge, on First Avenue in Manhattan, fans had strayed so far into the street that it left only a narrow pathway for the marathoners. The runners had to form a single-file line.
从皇后区大桥下来，跑在曼哈顿第一大道上，两旁的仰慕者全都涌到了街上，只给跑步的人留下窄窄的一条通道。选手们只能排成一列纵队。
That was electrifying, Obelkevich said, because those fans gave the runners so much of an emotional boost. The next year, though, the spectators were shooed off the course, onto the sidewalks. On Sunday, fans seemed to have been shooed away from the finish line, too.
奥贝尔凯维奇说，那太激动人心了，因为这些粉丝给选手们一个很强的情绪鼓动。不过第二年观众就被赶到赛道外了，站在人行道上。而在本周日，看起来连站在终点线的粉丝们都被赶开了。
Spectators who wanted to watch the race’s final quarter mile in Central Park had to go through a security checkpoint. Those checks — or perhaps what happened near the finish in Boston last year — kept some spectators away, leaving stretches of empty spots in an area usually filled with raucous fans.
想要在中央公园观看赛事最后四分之一英里的观众必须经过一道安检。这些安检——或者是去年波士顿终点附近发生的一切——赶走了一些观众，这个通常会挤满喧闹的观众的区域，现在出现了很多空挡。
Salla Viitikko, of Finland, noticed. “I wish there were more people there at the finish,” she said. “It’s always nice to have people cheering loud for you at that final point.”
来自芬兰的莎拉·维蒂科(Salla Viitikko)注意到了这一点。“我希望在终点的人能更多些，”她说，“在最后关头，有很多人帮你加油还是很开心的。”
Some fans still went to the finish, those spots that were equivalent to where the bombs went off in Boston. They decided to not change the way they’d live their lives in this age of terrorism.
一些观众还是去了终点，就是相当于波士顿爆炸案发生的地方。他们拒绝为了这个恐怖主义的时代去改变自己的生活方式。
Still, Sunday’s marathon was a stark reminder that big sporting events can be targets. Air traffic is restricted over events like the Super Bowl. The Olympics resemble fortified military compounds, with razor wire and surveillance cameras wrapped tightly around the events seen on television. Something as mundane as a backpack is now a symbol of danger; marathon staffers on Sunday had to use a transparent version. Runners as usual were required to place their belongings in clear plastic bags.
然而周日的马拉松依旧是一次直白的提醒，告诉我们大型体育赛事可以成为袭击的目标。在举办超级碗(Super Bowl)这样的活动时会进行空中管制。电视上可以看到奥运会仿如戒备森严的军营，活动场地周围密布着刀片铁丝网和监控摄像头。背包这样普通的东西如今成了危险的象征；马拉松赛事工作人员在周日必须使用一种透明的背包。参赛选手和往常一样，要把他们的个人物品放在透明的塑料袋里。
Gone are the days of the New York City Marathon feeling like a laid-back gathering of like-minded runners. It’s something different when the course includes 1,500 police cameras capturing every move.
纽约市马拉松赛作为跑步爱好者的轻松聚会的日子已经一去不复返。当警方在赛道上部署1500个摄像头以捕捉所有人的一举一动时，比赛就不可能跟以往一样了。
Did all of that make the race on Sunday less fun, or more fun, because runners felt more secure?
这一切是让周日的赛跑意兴阑珊，还是因为选手们感觉更安全了所以更有趣味了呢？
A quick glance at the runners approaching the finish line at 4 hours 9 minutes — the time the first bomb exploded at the Boston Marathon — was revealing.
看看起跑4小时9分钟后冲向终点的选手们，也就是波士顿马拉松赛上第一枚炸弹被引爆的那一刻，可以说明很多问题。
The thump-thump-thump of a low-flying helicopter provided the background noise. A police dog standing next to the course barked loudly. The fans lined along the course — many fewer than in year’s past — applauded.
一架低空飞行的直升机提供了轰隆隆的背景噪声。一只警犬站在赛道边大声吠叫着。观众站在赛道两边鼓掌，人数比往年少了很多。
The runners? With the finish line in view, some were gritting their teeth. But many were smiling. They had made it 26.2 miles through a peaceful race.
选手呢？看到终点线近在眼前，一些人开始咬紧牙关。但很多选手露出了笑容。他们跑完了平静的26.2英里。