WASHINGTON — Rarely has the concept of happiness caused so much consternation in public health circles.
华盛顿——“幸福感”这个概念竟然会在公共卫生界引起如此大的恐慌不快，这样的情形十分少见。
Buried deep in the federal government’s voluminous new tobacco regulations is a little-known cost-benefit calculation that public health experts see as potentially poisonous: the happiness quotient. It assumes that the benefits from reducing smoking — fewer early deaths and diseases of the lungs and heart — have to be discounted by 70 percent to offset the loss in pleasure that smokers suffer when they give up their habit.
联邦政府新草拟了一个篇幅颇长的烟草法规，其中包含一个少有人知的成本效益计算；公共健康专家认为，这个关于幸福指数的计算可能会造成不良后果；因为它假定，减少吸烟带来的好处——降低过早死亡率和心肺疾病患病率——必须扣除70%，才能抵消吸烟者放弃这个习惯时所损失的幸福感。
Experts say that calculation wipes out most of the economic benefits from the regulations and could make them far more vulnerable to legal challenges from the tobacco industry. And it could have a perverse effect, experts said. The more successful regulators are at reducing smoking, the more it hurts them in the final economic accounting.
专家表示，这个计算抹杀了该法规的大部分经济效益，使该法规更容易遭受来自烟草业的法律挑战，而且它还可能会产生一种有违常情的效果：监管者减少吸烟的活动越是成功，在经济核算中他们遭受的损失就会越大。
“This threatens the F.D.A.’s ability to take strong actions against tobacco,” Frank J. Chaloupka, an economist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, said of the Food and Drug Administration. “If they can’t demonstrate that there is a significant economic benefit to doing it, then it makes their job much harder.”
“这对美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）采取强力反烟行动的能力构成了威胁，”伊利诺伊大学芝加哥分校(University of Illinois at Chicago)的经济学家弗兰克·J·查卢普卡(Frank J. Chaloupka)表示。“如果他们不能证明这样做存在显著的经济利益，控烟工作就会变得困难得多。”
On Wednesday, Professor Chaloupka and other prominent economists, including a Nobel Prize winner, publicly took issue with the analysis. In a paper submitted to the F.D.A. as the period for public comment on the regulations neared its end on Friday, the group said the happiness quotient was way too high and should be changed before the regulations take effect.
上周三，查卢普卡教授和其他著名经济学家，其中包括一名诺贝尔文学奖得主，对这个分析进行了公开反驳。上周五，在该法规征求公众意见阶段接近尾声时，该团体向FDA提交了一篇论文，称这个幸福指数太高，在该法规生效前应该进行调整。
“There’s reason to believe that number is much too big,” said Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was an author of the paper. In his view, the agency’s analysis cited his past work erroneously.
“我们有理由相信，这个数字太高了，”乔纳森·格鲁伯(Jonathan Gruber)是麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的经济学家，也是该论文的作者之一。在他看来，该机构的分析错误地援引了他过去的研究成果。
The idea of lost happiness is new for health regulation. But it has surfaced as part of a longstanding requirement — first codified under President Bill Clinton — that every set of federal regulations with more than a $100 million effect on the economy needs an analysis to prevent the adoption of regulations with high costs and low benefits.
对于卫生监管来说，“幸福感损失”还是一个新鲜的理念。但它是作为一个长期要求的组成部分得以采用的——该要求最初形成是在比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)任总统期间，根据这个要求，所有联邦法规，只要对经济的影响超过1亿美元，就需要进行分析，以防出现成本高、效益低的状况。
The cost-benefit analysis is embedded in a proposal from April that would extend the F.D.A.’s authority, for the first time, to electronic cigarettes and other tobacco products such as cigars and pipe tobacco, with potentially large consequences for the multibillion-dollar tobacco industry.
今年4月发起的一个提案中采用了这个成本效益分析，该提案将会把美国FDA的权威首次扩大到监管电子卷烟以及雪茄、烟斗烟草等烟草产品方面，另一方面则会给烟草业造成数十亿美元规模的巨大影响。
The F.D.A. released a statement on Wednesday detailing the economics behind its analysis, but the explanation did not address the central assertion made by the economists. An F.D.A. spokeswoman, Jennifer Haliski, said that there was “still a great deal of uncertainty” surrounding the calculation, and that the agency was helping fund research to explore the issue. She emphasized that the whole purpose of a public comment period was to get the best information before the new regulations became final. “Comments are encouraged and all will be considered,” she said.
FDA本周三发布了一份声明，详细说明了该分析的经济学依据，但这个解释没有谈及经济学家们提出的核心主张。FDA发言人珍妮弗·哈利斯基(Jennifer Haliski)说，围绕这个计算“还存在很大的不确定性”，FDA正在协助为探讨该问题的研究筹集资金。她强调，设置公众评议期的目的，就是在新规定最终敲定之前获取最佳信息。“我们鼓励大家提出意见，对于所有意见，我们都将予以考虑，”她说。
If the formula for assessing costs and benefits remains unchanged in the final version of the regulations, it could set a dangerous precedent that would constrain public-policy making for years to come, experts and advocates warned.
专家和权益倡导者们警告说，如果在该规定的最终版中，这个评估成本和效益的公式保持不变，那么它就可能会成为一个危险的先例，在未来的很多年里阻碍公共决策。
“This is the single biggest obstacle facing the F.D.A. in executing the job Congress gave it,” said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for TobaccoFree Kids, an advocacy group. “There’s no way the F.D.A. can do its job if this is applied.”
“这是FDA在执行国会赋予它的职责时，所面临的最大的单一障碍，”倡议组织无烟草青少年运动(Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids)的负责人马修·L·迈尔斯(Matthew L. Myers)说。“如果使用这个计算方法，FDA就没法完成自己的任务了。”
This approach to cost-benefit analysis could also have broader implications for regulations of the food and beverage industries, which could likewise point to lost pleasure from consumption of sugar, salt or other substances regulators seek to limit.
这个成本效益分析方法，可能还会对食品和饮料行业的法规产生更加广泛的影响，因为根据同样的道理，监管机构希望限制的糖、盐等物质的消耗，也会导致幸福感的损失。
“If this is a beachhead into this kind of analysis, that should be setting off alarms,” said Lisa Heinzerling, a law professor at Georgetown University and an author of “Priceless: On Knowing the Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing,” a critique of cost-benefit analysis.
“这可能会为同类分析打开大门，我们应该警惕它，”乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的法学教授丽莎·海因策(Lisa Heinzerling)说；她曾在《无价：知道一切东西的价格，不知道它们的价值》(Priceless: On Knowing the Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing)一书中，对成本效益分析进行了研究。
The economists’ assessment of the agency’s approach is part of a flood of public comments — more than 69,000 as of Wednesday — submitted to the F.D.A. on the tobacco regulations. The rules are supposed to become final by next summer, and experts anticipate that legal challenges will soon follow.
这些经济学家对FDA做法的评估，只是大量公众意见中的一部分而已。截至本周三，公众就新的烟草法规提交给FDA的意见已逾6.9万条。这些规定预定将在明年夏天最终敲定，而专家们估计，法律上的挑战也将随即出现。
The economists speaking out on Wednesday said a basic assumption consistent with traditional economic theory lay at the heart of the federal government’s miscalculation on the costs and benefits of the regulations: that most people were rational, well-informed market participants making decisions they would not later regret.
本周三，这些经济学家表示，联邦政府之所以在该法规的成本和效益上计算失误，是因为采纳了一个符合传统经济理论的基本假设：大多数人都是理性的，消息灵通的市场参与者做出决定之后，就不会再后悔。
But smokers, they said, were different. A vast majority began smoking before age 18, when judgment is impaired. And many want to quit, but are addicted, and forgo the long-term satisfaction of better health for short-term pleasure.
但吸烟者是不同的，专家们说。绝大多数在18岁之前就开始吸烟，而那时他们还不具备完整的判断力。很多人想戒烟，但却因为上了瘾戒不掉，他们放弃了更佳的健康状况以及长期满意度，来换取短期快感。