DAMASCUS, Syria — Camouflage-clad militiamen guard sandbagged checkpoints along this storied city’s elegant downtown boulevards. Merchants who once owned their own shops are reduced to selling plastic trinkets on the street. Families from war-torn provinces sleep in mosques and schools.
叙利亚大马士革——在这座城市中心区雅致的林荫大道上，身着迷彩服的民兵把守着堆满沙袋的检查站。曾经拥有商铺的商人们屈尊在街道上摆摊售卖塑料小玩意。从战乱省份逃来的家庭借宿在清真寺和学校里。
The Syrian capital has been deeply altered by the country’s civil war, now in its third year. The economy is collapsing. Displaced people arrive faster than they can be absorbed. Most of all, there is a sense that the war will continue, perhaps for years, making the country’s rifts progressively harder to heal.
持续到第三年的内战已经让叙利亚的首都变得面目全非。经济正在崩溃，人们背井离乡来到这个城市，数量之多已经超过了它的吸纳能力。更重要的是，人们普遍感觉战争也许还得再持续几年，使得这个国家的裂缝益发难以愈合。
Dark as it is, that foreboding has led to a convergence of sorts, a desire by many on both sides of the conflict to bring an end to the killing and destruction even if it means compromise.
尽管有如此悲观的看法，但这种对未来的预感引发了某种交汇，在冲突双方的很多人心中激发了对结束杀戮和毁灭的渴求，即使这意味着要作出妥协。
“There is no more pro and anti,” said a janitor who opposed the uprising, but like many here in the capital has relatives and co-workers who supported it. “We all want security.”
“不再分什么支持和反对了，”一个反对起义的清洁工说道。但和许多身处首都的人一样，他的亲戚和同事中也有支持起义的。“我们都想要安全。”
Some here wonder if that increasingly popular, though by no means universal, view could be the basis of peace talks that world leaders are seeking to arrange half a world away. Others warn that moderate sentiments on both sides may have little bearing on the combat, which is driven by government hard-liners, rebel extremists and anger over the deaths of more than 100,000 people.
有些人想知道，这种虽存争议但越来越受到欢迎的观点，能否成为地球另一边的世界领导人们开启和平会谈的基础。另有一些人则提醒道，战斗是由政府里的强硬分子、反对派中的极端分子，以及因10万多人的死亡而产生的愤怒情绪推进的，冲突双方的气氛缓和可能不会对战斗有任何影响。
Yet in whispers, or among trusted friends, people in central Damascus across the political spectrum are increasingly questioning the value of pressing the conflict. Many no longer believe the assurances of their nominal leaders and doubt they have the interests of ordinary people in mind. Most share a horror of extremist Islamist groups in the armed opposition, disagreeing only on whether that translates into a desire for the current government to remain.
但在私下里，或在信得过的朋友们之间，大马士革市中心各派别人士越来越怀疑，将冲突继续下去有什么意义可言。许多人已不再相信他们名义上的领导人做出的保证，并且对他们是否把普通民众的利益放在心上表示怀疑。大多数人都对武装反对派中的伊斯兰极端组织感到恐惧。而他们唯一的差别就是，有的人将这种恐惧转化成了维持现任政府的意愿，有的人则不是。
With the war mired in stalemate and the possibility of American airstrikes receding, people here are no longer bracing for what many once expected, a rebel invasion of the city. Instead, problems seep from within. Political tensions intrude on social gatherings. In a city with a long history of coexistence among religious and ethnic groups, the war is deforming relationships, neighborhoods and landscapes.
随着战争陷入僵持阶段，美国进行空袭的可能性不断减小，人们担忧的不再是此前所预期的叛乱分子入侵城市。而是城市内部开始出现的问题。政治上的紧张空气侵入了社交聚会。在这个不同宗教和民族长期共存的城市里，战争扭曲了情感、邻里关系和城市景观。
Beneath highway overpasses, Syrians newly joining the five million pushed from their homes by war mill about with their baggage, not sure where to go.
有500万人因战争所迫流离失所。而在公路立交桥下，新近加入这一大军的叙利亚人带着行李仓惶而至，不知何去何从。
Outside the city center, some roads made impassable at times by the fighting are safe, at least during the day. But along one such highway, from Damascus to the suburb of Sahnaya to the southwest, malls, restaurants and office buildings stand abandoned, their windows shattered, their parking lots mostly empty. One lot is crowded with the twisted carcasses of burned city buses.
在市中心以外的地区，有些因战斗而不时无法通行的道路至少在白天还是安全的。但在一条从大马士革通往西南部萨那亚郊区的公路沿线，购物中心、饭馆和写字楼被弃之不顾，窗玻璃都碎了，停车场也基本空空如也。一个停车场堆满了被火烧得扭曲变形的公共汽车残骸。
Streets are busier now, giving a surface sense of normalcy. The plaza outside the Umayyad Mosque at the heart of the Old City hums in the evenings, no longer deserted after dark as it often was just a few months ago. Children race after balls, vendors sell roasted corn and housewares, and families rest along the base of the mosque’s thick stone wall.
街道较以前繁忙了一些，表面看上去有种恢复正常的感觉。位于老城中心的倭马亚清真寺(Umayyad Mosque)外的广场傍晚人声嘈杂，不再像几个月前那样经常天一黑就空无一人。孩子们追着球跑，小贩售卖着烤玉米和生活用品，一家家的人在清真寺厚厚的石墙下休息。
But a closer look reveals that many of these people are displaced, living nearby in cramped apartments, storefronts and offices, filling the gap left by tourists and residents who fled the country.
但仔细观察就能发现，当中许多是流离失所的人，将就住在附近狭小的公寓、店面或办公室里，填补了逃离的叙利亚居民和游客留下的缺口。
At the Nufara cafe, a favorite spot in the Old City, a group of teenagers barely looked up from their coffee and water pipes one recent night as half a dozen shells crashed down, close enough to jar the gut.
近日某天晚上，在老城很受欢迎的努法拉咖啡馆(Nufara cafe)里，当六发炮弹轰然落在不远处，令五脏六腑为之一震之时，一群十几岁的少年喝着咖啡，抽着水烟，眼皮都没有抬一下。
“Count,” said one boy, glimpsing a flash over the rooftops. He ticked off the seconds until the boom, calculating the distance. Artillery barrages are as familiar as thunder and lightning.
一个男孩扫了一眼划过屋顶的闪光，说道，“开始计数。”他数着轰炸声响起之前的秒数，并计算着陆点的距离。火炮弹幕已经像打雷闪电般稀松平常。
But it is not necessary to travel to rebel-held suburbs, bombarded by government warplanes, to find supporters or sympathizers of the insurgency. In shops and workplaces, in circles of friends and increasingly in shelters and schools for the displaced, government supporters and opponents interact and even socialize within the relatively safe space of Damascus, an experience less common in other parts of the country, where disagreements have turned into large-scale slaughter.
要找到叛乱行动的支持者和同情者，无需冒着政府军飞机的轰炸进入反对派控制的郊区。在商店和工作场所，在朋友圈子，特别在收留了无家可归的人的避难所和学校里，政府的支持者和反对者们在大马士革相对安全一些的地方进行着沟通甚至是交际。这一现象在叙利亚的其他地区就没那么普遍了，在那些地方，意见不合已导致了大规模的屠杀。
One recent evening at a Damascus restaurant, two longtime friends who took opposite sides early in the uprising lamented where it had ended up. The government opponent denounced Damascus intellectuals for ceding leadership of the rebellion to armed groups. The pro-government friend, surprisingly, was more forgiving, noting the government of President Bashar al-Assad had cracked down quickly on peaceful activists.
最近一个晚上在大马士革一个饭馆里，两个交往已久但在起义之初持不同立场的朋友悲叹局势何以至此。反对政府的朋友声讨大马士革的知识分子，把造反行动的领导权拱手让给了武装组织。而令人惊奇的是，支持政府的朋友却更加宽容，指出巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统领导的政府对于和平活动人士进行了迅速镇压。
“They were never given the space to act,” she said.
“他们从来就没得到过行动的空间，”她说道。
On both sides, flashes of emotion telegraph deepening frustration. Walking past a wall scrawled with the slogan “Assad only, Assad forever,” one government supporter spluttered: “This is wrong. Syria is for my children — for everyone equally, not just for one person.”
双方的情绪爆发都传达了不断加深的颓丧。在经过一堵涂写着“只拥护阿萨德，永远拥护阿萨德”口号的围墙时，一个政府支持者激动地语无伦次：“这是错的。叙利亚属于我的孩子的——平等地属于每个人，不是属于某一个人。”
Some government supporters passionately back Mr. Assad, but others call him “crazy” or the lesser of two evils.
一些政府支持者热情地拥护阿萨德，而另有一些支持者把他称为“疯子”，或是两害当中稍好的那个。
At an out-of-the-way cafe in the Old City, a group of government supporters met to discuss the situation, fearing the security services enough that, like others interviewed for this article, they did not want their names or pictures used. The atmosphere was cozy, but as the arak and vodka flowed, nerves grew raw, and what began as an abstract political discussion flared suddenly into a personal quarrel.
在老城一个处在偏僻地段的咖啡馆里，一群政府支持者相聚探讨局势。出于对安全机构的恐惧，他们和其他接受笔者采访的人一样，不愿署名或刊登照片。气氛一开始是轻松的，但几杯亚力酒和伏特加下肚后，情绪开始激昂起来，起初抽象的政治讨论突然转为个人化的争吵。
An artist mused that Syrian Jews who left the country should be allowed back in; a gallery owner shot back that they had chosen to leave, as had the artist, who was visiting Damascus after moving with his family to Europe to escape the war.
一位艺术家沉思着说到，应该允许离开了叙利亚的犹太人回来；一个画廊老板反唇相讥，说是他们选择离开的，跟那位艺术家一样。艺术家为避战乱和家人已搬去欧洲，此刻是回到大马士革来看看。
“Don’t start,” the gallery owner said. “You left the country. I stayed here.”
“别提这个，”画廊老板说道。“你们离开了这个国家，而我却留了下来。”
“I have children, I had to leave,” the artist protested.
“我有孩子，我必须离开，”艺术家反驳道。
“I have kids too,” the gallery owner said, and began to cry.
“我也有孩子，”画廊老板说着，还哭了起来。
Resentment between those who fled and those who stayed also suffuses the opposition.
反对派内部也弥漫着逃离这个国家的人和留下来的人之间的怨恨。
At another gathering, a government critic complained that the exile opposition had gutted the movement by luring young activists to Turkey to work fruitlessly, if lucratively, to set up an alternative government.
在另一场聚会上，一个政府批评者抱怨流亡反对派把年轻的活动家们诱引到土耳其，想去建立另一个政府。这完全白费功夫，恐怕只是让年轻活动家们得到点好处，反而损害了反对派在叙利亚国内的运动。
The critic’s daughter said she had lost hope that their dreams of democracy would be achieved. “Not in our lifetime,” she said.
批评家的女儿说，她对实现民主的梦想已经不抱希望。“我们这辈子是看不到了，”她说道。
The critic, appalled, said: “No! Maybe not in my lifetime. But in yours,” adding, “We’ll see.”
批评家闻言吃了一惊，说道：“不！我可能看不到了，但你们这一代，”又补充道，“咱们等着瞧吧。”
The young woman shook her head. “We’ve been seeing,” she said.
年轻的姑娘摇着头说，“我们看见的已经够多了。”