MOSCOW — The downing of a Russian warplane by Turkey threatened to lead to a wholesale breach in the countries’ relations on Thursday, with the Kremlin preparing to sever economic ties and Turkish officials saying they had no reason to apologize.
莫斯科——俄罗斯战机被土耳其击落之后，两国关系有可能发生全面破裂。本周四，克里姆林宫有意断绝双方经贸关系，土耳其官员则说自己没有理由道歉。
Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia gave government officials two days to draw up a list of ways to curb economic links and investment projects. That included the possible shelving of a multibillion-dollar deal to build a gas pipeline through Turkey that President Vladimir V. Putin himself had first trumpeted as a welcome alternative route for Russian gas exports to Europe.
俄罗斯总理德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A. Medvedev)给政府官员两天的时间草拟一份限制俄土经济联系和投资项目的清单。其中一个可能会被搁置的项目是途经土耳其的一条天然气管道，其合同金额达数十亿美元。普京当初曾称赞它是俄罗斯对欧天然气出口的一条替代路线，值得欢迎。
Mr. Putin and his Turkish counterpart, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, stoked the confrontation by hurling insults at each other and demanding redress.
普京和土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)互相谴责并要求赔偿，令对峙升级。
“We have still not heard any comprehensible apologies from the Turkish political leaders, or any offers to compensate for the damage caused, or promises to punish the criminals for their crime,” Mr. Putin said at the Kremlin. He reiterated Russia’s position that the warplane was brought down on Tuesday over Syria, not Turkey.
“我们还没有听到土耳其政治领导人表示任何明确的歉意，或者是提供任何方案来弥补造成的损失，或者承诺惩罚犯罪的凶手，”普京在克里姆林宫说。他重申，这架战机本周二是在叙利亚而不是土耳其上空被击落的。
“One gets the impression that the Turkish leaders are deliberately leading Russian-Turkish relations into a gridlock,” Mr. Putin said, adding later in the day: “Turkey was our friend, almost an ally, and it is a shame that this was destroyed in such a foolish manner.”
“这给人的印象是，土耳其领导人刻意将俄土关系引入僵局，”普京说，并在当天晚些时候表示：“土耳其是我们的朋友，差不多是盟友，用如此愚蠢的方式摧毁这种关系是个遗憾。”
The standoff between the two prideful leaders boded ill for the mission of President François Hollande, who arrived in Moscow to hold talks with Mr. Putin as part of his effort after the Paris attacks to cement an international coalition to confront the Islamic State.
两个自傲的领导人争锋相对，给法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的努力蒙上了阴影。奥朗德已前往莫斯科与普京举行会谈。巴黎遭遇袭击之后，奥朗德希望巩固国际联盟，来与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)对抗。
Moscow and Ankara had already been divided over the future of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Turkey insisted that he step aside, while Russia called Mr. Assad a central ally in the fight against the Islamic State.
在叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的前景的问题上，莫斯科与安卡拉本来就存在分歧。土耳其坚持要他下台，而俄罗斯则呼吁，在打击伊斯兰国的斗争中，要以阿萨德为主要盟友。
The downing of the Russian plane inflamed that rift. Mr. Erdogan maintained Thursday that Turkey was protecting its airspace from repeated Russian incursions.
俄罗斯战机被击落一事进一步放大了这种分歧。周四，埃尔多安依然坚称，土耳其是在保护自己的领空不被俄罗斯反复侵犯。
“Faced with the same violation today, Turkey would give the same response,” he said. “It’s the country that carried out the violation which should question itself and take measures to prevent it from happening again, not the country that was subjected to a violation.”
“今天如果出现同样的被侵犯的情况，土耳其还是会做出同样的反应，”他说。“应该是实施这种侵犯行为的国家，而非受到侵犯的国家，来反思自身行为，并采取措施防止此类事件再度发生。”
Later, Mr. Erdogan appeared to soften his remarks somewhat, telling France 24 television: “We might have been able to prevent this violation of our airspace differently.”
后来，埃尔多安的言论似乎有所软化。他告诉法国的France 24电视台：“我们或许本可以采取不同方式来防止领空被侵犯。”
Immediately after Turkey shot down the Russian warplane on Tuesday, senior officials in Moscow and Ankara vowed that they wanted to limit any larger conflict. Given that Turkey is a member of NATO, any military confrontation risks pulling in its Western allies.
周二土耳其击落俄罗斯战机后，莫斯科和安卡拉的高层官员均立即宣称要避免出现更大的冲突。考虑到土耳其是北约组织的一员，二者发生任何军事对抗，都有将西方盟友卷进来的危险。
But the economic, geographic and historically competitive ties that bind the two faded empires are facing new strains. At the very least, the tension will hamper chances of resolving the bloody war in Syria.
不过，将这两个昔日帝国联系在一起的经济、地理和历史竞争关系正面临新的压力。至少，这种紧张局面会降低化解叙利亚血腥战争的机会。
The Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said that while he had expressed regret over the episode in a phone call on Wednesday to his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, there would be no apology.
土耳其外长梅夫吕特·恰武什奥卢(Mevlut Cavusoglu)表示，尽管他周三在与俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)通电话时表达了自己对此事的遗憾，但不会就此进行道歉。
“We do not need to apologize on an occasion that we are right,” Mr. Cavusoglu said.
“我们不需要为自己做对了的事道歉，”恰武什奥卢说。
Maria Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, objected to the failure of Turkish or NATO officials to offer condolences over the two Russian military men who died after the plane was shot down. She also demanded an explanation from Turkey about the circumstances surrounding the death of the pilot, who was killed after he parachuted from the plane. It is believed he was shot by Turkmen insurgents who live along the border on the Syrian side and who are supported by Ankara.
土耳其或北约官员不曾对战机被击落后身亡的两名俄罗斯军人表达慰问之情，俄罗斯外交部发言人玛利亚·扎哈罗娃(Maria Zakharova)对此表示不满。她还要求土耳其对其中一名飞行员死亡的情况做出解释。此人从飞机安全弹射后丧生。外界认为他是被居住在叙利亚边境附近受安卡拉支持的土库曼反对派武装射杀的。
The insurgents have accused the Russian Air Force of hitting their positions especially hard after the downing, in areas distant from any Islamic State strongholds. It is widely anticipated that Russia will respond to the episode with more such attacks rather than with a direct military challenge to Turkey.
这些反对派指责俄罗斯空军在战机被击落之后对他们的地盘进行了更猛烈的轰炸，而这些地方并不接近伊斯兰国的任何一个据点。现在的普遍预期是，俄罗斯会以更多此类轰炸作为对此事的回应，而非在军事上直接挑战土耳其。
Even before any formal plans for economic sanctions were drawn up, Russia was already retaliating. Moscow has a long history of suddenly discovering faults with the goods and services of other nations when diplomatic relations sour.
在制定正式的经济制裁计划之前，俄罗斯已经开始进行报复。在外交关系恶化时给对方国家的产品和服务找茬方面，莫斯科颇有些历史。
Hundreds of trucks bearing Turkish fruits and vegetables and other products were stacking up at the Georgian border with Russia, Russian news media reported, as inspections slowed to a crawl and Russian officials suggested there might be a terrorist threat from the goods.
据俄罗斯媒体报道，因为安检速度极慢，有数百辆运载着土耳其水果、蔬菜和其他产品的卡车滞留在靠近俄罗斯的格鲁吉亚边境。俄罗斯官员表示，有一名恐怖分子可能藏身于这些货物中。
“This is only natural in light of Turkey’s unpredictable actions,” Dmitri S. Peskov, the presidential spokesman, told reporters.
“考虑到无法预测土耳其会采取什么行动，这是很自然的反应，”普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)告诉记者们。
In the Krasnodar region, a group of 39 Turkish businessmen attending an agriculture exhibition were detained for entering Russia on tourist rather than business visas — a common practice — and were slated for deportation, according to a report on the website of the Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspaper.
据《俄罗斯报》(Rossiyskaya Gazeta)网站上的一篇文章报道，正在俄罗斯克拉斯诺达尔地区参加一个农业展会的39名土耳其商人，因是携旅游签证而非商务签证入境——一种常见做法——被俄罗斯扣押，之后将被驱逐出境。
Government officials announced that a special year of cultural exchanges planned for all of 2016 would be canceled.
政府官员还宣布，原计划在2016年举行的文化交流年活动也将全部取消。
The biggest question about possible economic fallout hung over major energy projects, including the gas pipeline across the Black Sea and the construction of Turkey’s first nuclear power plant.
有关俄罗斯可能实行什么样的经济制裁，主要的猜测集中于几个重要的能源项目上，包括穿越黑海的天然气管道和土耳其第一座核电站的建设工程。
Sanctions could be damaging for both countries, even if trade was down in 2015 from a year earlier.
制裁可能会给双方都造成损害，尽管两国在2015年的贸易额相比前一年有所下降。