PARIS — The moment was dramatic enough: In a courtroom in The Hague on Wednesday, a military commander from the former Yugoslavia pulled out a small bottle and drank from it, declaring that he had ingested poison to protest his conviction for war crimes. The judges quickly ordered that courtroom curtains block the view of spectators in the public gallery. Live television coverage went dark.
巴黎——单是那一幕就已经足够戏剧化了：周三，在海牙的一个法庭，一名来自前南斯拉夫的军事指挥官拿出了一个小瓶子，将其中的东西一饮而尽，然后宣布他已服毒，以示对自己被定罪为战犯的抗议。法官们迅速下令用帷幕挡住旁听席上观众的视线。电视的转播画面也突然停止。
But what happened next, beyond public view, was just as shocking, according to lawyers and court officials. The war criminal, Slobodan Praljak, 72, slumped in his chair and began to gasp for breath. He was later taken to a Dutch hospital and pronounced dead.
但据律师和法院官员所说，接下来在公众视线之外所发生的，就如这件事一般令人震惊。这名72岁的战犯斯洛博丹·普拉利亚克(Slobodan Praljak)倒在了椅子上，开始大口喘气。他后来被送到了一家荷兰医院，宣告死亡。
On Friday, Dutch prosecutors announced that Praljak had died of heart failure after ingesting potassium cyanide — a highly toxic compound — and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia announced that it would conduct its own “independent, expert review” of Praljak’s suicide. But a key question remained unanswered: How did he manage to smuggle the poison into court?
周五，荷兰检方宣布普拉利亚克在摄入氰化钾——一种剧毒化合物——后因心脏衰竭死亡，前南斯拉夫国际刑事法庭(International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia)宣布，将对普拉利亚克的自杀进行自己的“独立、专业评估”。但一个关键的问题仍未得到解答：他是如何偷偷将毒药带入法庭的？
Defense lawyers at the tribunal say the security arrangements in place for defendants like Praljak, and the five other men whose sentences were affirmed Wednesday, were rigorous. They were subjected to body searches when they left their detention center — inside a high-security Dutch prison — and again when they arrived at the tribunal building. But, court officials acknowledged, body-cavity searches were not part of the routine.
法庭的辩护律师说，针对普拉利亚克及另外五名维持原判的被告的安全措施极为严格。当他们离开拘留中心时——它位于一座戒备森严的荷兰监狱内，都接受了搜身，在抵达法庭大楼时也是同样。但法院官员承认，不包括体腔搜查。
Even so, that left the question of how Praljak could have laid hands on the toxin since visitors were supposedly searched, too. And in the months before his final appearance in court, he had seemed to eschew contact with his family and his lawyers.
尽管如此，这也让普拉利亚克是如何拿到毒药的问题悬而未决，因为访客按理来说也都是要经过安检的。此外，在他最后一次在法庭上露面的前几个月，他似乎已经回避了与家人及律师的接触。
Nika Pinter, his lead counsel, said in a telephone interview from Zagreb, the Croatian capital, that Praljak had told his family not to be present at the judgment.
他的首席律师妮卡·平特(Nika Pinter)在克罗地亚首都萨格勒布接受电话采访说，普拉利亚克曾告诉他的家人，让他们不要出席庭审。
“For 13 years his wife came to visit him in prison every month, the last time I think at the end of October. His stepson and stepdaughter would also visit,” Pinter said. However, she added, “He forbade his wife to listen to the judgment. And he told her: Don’t come to The Hague.”
平特说，“13年来，他妻子每个月都会去探监，上一次我记得应该是10月底。他的继子和继女也会来探视”。然而，她又补充说，“他不让妻子来旁听判决。他告诉她：别来海牙。”
Pinter recalled: “Last weekend I called him and asked him if he would like me to visit him before the judgment. He said: ‘No, don’t come.’ I called again on Tuesday and told him I would come to court early to meet him. He told me: ‘No, don’t come. I’ll see you in the courtroom.'” She said she believed he wanted to spare her from what followed.
平特回忆说：“上周末我打电话给他，问他是否在判决前希望我去看看他。他说：‘不，别来了。’周二我又打给他，告诉他我会早点到法院和他碰面。他对我说：‘不，别来了。我们庭上见。’”她说她相信普拉利亚克是不想让她了解接下来要发生的事情。
“From the start, 13 years ago, he told me he could not bear being called a war criminal,” Pinter said. “He couldn’t live with the stigma.” But she added: “He never gave a hint that he was planning to end his life.”
“从13年前的一开始，他就告诉我他无法忍受被称为战犯，”平特说。“他受不了这种耻辱。”但她补充道：“他从未暗示过要结束自己的生命。”
Praljak had been a theater and film director and a writer. He joined the Croatian army and was named a general when it was formed after the country broke away from Yugoslavia in 1991.
普拉利亚克曾是一名话剧及电影导演，还是一名作家。当克罗地亚在1991年脱离南斯拉夫，组建起军队后，他加入了军队，并被任命为将军。
Named commander of the Croatian forces fighting in Bosnia, he was a key figure during the conflict, including the long siege and shelling of the ethnically mixed city of Mostar. At the time, he was the main liaison between political and military leaders in Croatia and the Croatian force fighting in Bosnia.
被委任为在波斯尼亚作战的克罗地亚部队指挥官的他，曾是这场冲突中的一个关键人物，该冲突包括了对莫斯塔尔这个多民族混居的城市旷日持久的围城和炮轰。当时他是克罗地亚政治和军事领导人与克罗地亚在波斯尼亚作战武装力量之间的主要联络军官。
He surrendered to the tribunal in 2004 and was convicted of war crimes and crimes against humanity in 2013. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison, but appealed. (He would have been due for release in 2019, after serving two-thirds of his sentence, including time served.)
他于2004年向法庭投案，于2013年被判战争罪行及反人道罪。当时他被判入狱20年，但他提起了上诉。（原本算上坐牢时间，他将于2019年，也就是在服满三分之二的刑期后获释。）
The tribunal had just affirmed his verdict and sentence Wednesday when Praljak kept standing.
周三，法庭对他的罪名和刑期维持原判时，普拉利亚克一直站立。
He reached forward to pick up the vial.
他身子前倾，拿起了小药瓶。
“Slobodan Praljak is not a war criminal,” he declared portentously, in Croatian. “I reject your judgment with contempt.”
“斯洛博丹·普拉利亚克不是战犯，”他用克罗地亚语预示性地宣告。“我带着蔑视拒绝你们的判决。”
He then opened his fist, took out the vial, tilted back his head and drank.
然后他松开拳头，拿出小药瓶，脑袋后仰，一饮而尽。
“I have taken poison,” Praljak said. One of his lawyers, Natacha Fauveau Ivanovic, called out to ensure that the presiding judge, Carmel Agius, understood: “Mr. President, our client says he took poison.”
“我已经服下了毒药，”普拉利亚克说。他的律师之一娜塔莎·福沃·伊万诺维奇(Natacha Fauveau Ivanovic)向主持庭审的法官卡梅尔·阿久斯(Carmel Agius)大声喊道“庭长，我们的客户说他服了毒”，好让他能明白。
The judges were stunned, but appeared not to have fully grasped what had happened. Agius directed the next defendant to rise, and began reading.
法官们十分震惊，但似乎还未能完全理解发生了什么。阿久斯指示下一位被告起立，开始陈述。
“People did not realize exactly what was going on,” said Michael Karnavas, a veteran defense lawyer representing Jadranko Prlic, one of Praljak’s co-defendants. “This man was always full of bravado. Prajlak sat down and almost immediately he was gasping for air, struggling to breathe. It was loud. He made sounds like he was choking. I saw him slumped in his chair. Someone shouted for help. The guards came over and got him onto the floor.”
“人们不知道究竟是个什么情况，”代表普拉利亚克的共同被告——亚德兰科·普尔利奇(Jadranko Prlic)的资深辩护律师迈克尔·卡内瓦斯(Michael Karnavas)说。“这个人总爱虚张声势。普拉利亚克一坐下就呼吸急促，喘不过气。动静很大。他还发出类似被哽住的声音。我看到他重重地倒在椅子上。有人大喊着求助。警卫过来了，把他放在了地上。”
Karnavas added: “After a few minutes two medics arrived from the medical office in the tribunal. One of the medics calls out: The heart has stopped. They start doing CPR, they are pumping his chest to get his heart going, taking turns with some of the security guards.”
卡内瓦斯补充道：“几分钟后，法庭医务室派来了两名医生。一名医生喊道：心脏停跳了。他们开始做心肺复苏术，他们和几名安保人员一起轮流按压他的胸腔以恢复他的心跳。”
After 20 minutes, an emergency team arrived from a hospital and took over. They kept him in the building for about another 40 minutes or so because they wanted to stabilize him. It was not clear what made the medical team finally decide to take him to the hospital. Croatia’s justice minister has called into question the speed of the responses by security and medical staff.
20分钟后，一所医院的急救队抵达法庭并接手救助。他们将普拉利亚克在大楼内又留了大约40分钟，希望他能稳定下来。急救队最终决定将其带去医院的原因尚不明确。克罗地亚司法部部长对安保和医务人员的反应速度提出了质疑。
The tribunal said Friday that its inquiry would be led by Hassan B. Jallow, chief justice of Gambia and a former prosecutor at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
法院曾在周五表示调查将由冈比亚首席大法官、卢旺达国际刑事法庭(International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda)前检察官哈桑·B·贾洛(Hassan B. Jallow)领导。
A report on the findings is expected by Dec. 31.
调查报告预计将于12月31日发表。
It was unclear to what extent those findings would be open to scrutiny. “The outcome of the review will be made public, subject to due process and confidentiality considerations,” the tribunal said.
调查结果接受公开监督的程度尚不明确。“审查结果将会公开，以正当法律程序和保密需要为准。”法庭表示。
To smuggle the vial into the courtroom, Praljak had to circumvent what were supposed to be tight security arrangements. The defendants are escorted by guards and enter the building through an underground parking lot. They are strip-searched when they leave the detention unit and then again at the court. They are unable to have contact with members of the public.
要将药瓶偷带入法庭，普拉利亚克需要躲开严格的安全措施。被告们在警卫的陪同下从地下停车场进入大楼。在离开法庭拘留所时以及在法庭内都会光身搜查。他们无法与公众接触。
Visitors also face tough security checks, said Fauveau Ivanovic, the defense lawyer, first to enter the high-security Dutch prison, and then again at the U.N. detention unit set within the compound.
辩护律师福沃·伊万诺维奇说，来访者也要经过严格的安检，首先是在进入安全级别很高的荷兰监狱，然后进入里面的联合国拘留所时。
“Everything — our shoes, our clothes, our bags — everything goes through the X-ray machine,” she said. “We walk through a scanner, like at an airport. We can’t bring in liquids.”
“一切东西——我们的鞋子、衣服、包包——一都要经过X光机，”她说。“我们要通过一个扫描仪，和机场的一样。我们不能携带液体。”
Karnavas recalled the last time he saw Praljak. “I last saw him outside the courtroom that morning as he was coming out of the toilet,” he said. “I thought nothing of it at the time. But I’m thinking about that now.”
卡内瓦斯回忆他上一次见到普拉利亚克的情形。“我最后一次见他是当天在审判室的外面，他刚刚从厕所出来，”他说。“我当时没多想。但我现在在想这事。”