DARBANDIKHAN, Iraq — As Sunni rebels advanced across Iraq in recent weeks, hundreds of thousands of Iraqis were driven from their homes. For many, it was not the first time.
伊拉克达尔班迪罕——最近数周，随着逊尼派武装分子在伊拉克全境推进，成千上万的伊拉克人被迫逃离家园。对许多人而言，这并不是第一次。
There have been very few prolonged periods of peace in Iraq over the last several decades, and for civilians seemingly perpetual flight. More than a million Iraqis have been displaced this year, half within the last couple of weeks, the United Nations says.
过去几十年里，伊拉克很少有长时间的和平，而对民众而言，似乎永远都在逃亡。联合国称，今年已有超过100万伊拉克人流离失所，其中一半是在过去几周里背井离乡的。
For Akheel Ahmed, a Sunni Arab who fled his home in the central Iraq town of Balad, fear and uncertainty were accompanied by familiarity. He arrived in this mountain village along the Iranian border a few days ago with his three sons, the second time in recent years that he has become a refugee in his own country.
对逊尼派阿拉伯人阿希尔·艾哈迈德(Akheel Ahmed)而言，这种恐惧和不确定带有一种熟悉感。几天前，他和三个儿子离开了位于伊拉克中部城市巴拉德的家，来到了靠近伊朗边境的这个山村。这是近年来他第二次在自己的国家沦为难民。
Using hand gestures, he described the battlefield that his hometown had become.
他用手势描述了已经沦为战场的家乡。
“Here is ISIS,” he said, referring to the Sunni militant group the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, “and here are the Shiite militias. We are in between.”
“这边是ISIS，”他指的是逊尼派武装团体伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)，“这边是什叶派民兵。我们被夹在中间。”
He then checked off the names of his sons, to emphasize the urgency of his exodus.
他接着说出了几个儿子的名字，强调他们逃亡的紧迫性。
“I have an Omar, an Othman and an Asha,” he said, all recognizable as Sunni names, making them targets for the Shiite militias now working alongside the Iraqi Army. “They will slaughter them.”
“我有三个儿子，奥马尔(Omar)、奥斯曼(Othman)和阿沙(Asha)，”他说。三个都会被认出是逊尼派的名字，让他们成为正在与伊拉克政府军并肩作战的什叶派民兵的目标。“会杀死他们的。”
The rapid advances of ISIS and other Sunni militant groups across Iraq have increasingly merged the civil war in Syria and the violent Sunni uprising here into a single battle zone. Now, the humanitarian crises gripping both countries are converging. Millions of Syrians have already fled to Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, and now Iraqis are on the move, too.
ISIS和其他逊尼派武装团体在整个伊拉克迅速推进，叙利亚内战和这里的逊尼派暴力叛乱，已经愈发紧密地融为一体，形成一个完整的战区。时下，影响这两个国家的人道主义危机也正在融合。已有数百万叙利亚人逃往伊拉克、约旦、黎巴嫩和土耳其，而如今伊拉克人也在四处逃亡。
Iraqis endured an enormous refugee crisis after the American invasion in 2003. In those years, many fled to Syria, but that is no longer an option. Jordan, another past destination for Iraqi refugees, is facing difficulty caring for the huge numbers of displaced Syrians.
美国2003年入侵后，伊拉克经历了一场巨大的难民危机。那些年里，许多人逃往叙利亚，但叙利亚现在已经不再是一个选项了。约旦过去曾是伊拉克难民的另一个目的地，但约旦现在照顾大量背井离乡的叙利亚人就已经困难重重。
“The situation is reaching a critical point,” said a United Nations official who spoke on the condition of anonymity as a matter of official policy. “As bad as Syria is, the crisis here is growing by day and exceeding the capabilities of the government. Effectively there is no centralized government over all of Iraq now, and in past years, they were already relatively weak.”
“局势正在往临界点的方向发展，”一名美国官员说，“这里的情况和叙利亚一样糟糕，危机一天天恶化，超出了政府的能力。实际上，现在并没有一个能统治伊拉克全境的中央政府，而在过去这些年里，政府的能力已经变得相对薄弱了。”因为事情涉及官方政策，这名官员要求匿名。
This year, the United Nations appealed to donors for $106 million to care for nearly 500,000 civilians displaced from Anbar Province, where militants began capturing territory in late December. Only a small portion of that amount was raised, and now the United Nations is planning to ask donors for another $312 million to face the new wave of displaced people.
今年，联合国呼吁捐款者拿出1.06亿美元（约合6.6亿元人民币），用来照顾从安巴尔省出逃的将近50万名平民，武装分子从12月底就开始在那里攻城掠地。目前联合国只筹集到了一少部分款项，而且现在联合国正计划要求捐助者再拿出3.12亿美元，用于安置新一批流离失所者。
Here in this village in northeastern Iraq, school is out and classrooms have become homes for this country’s displaced.
在这个位于伊拉克东北部的村庄，学校已经停课，教室则成了难民的家。
A group of men standing outside the elementary school here, Mr. Ahmed among them, were asked if any of them had been forced to flee their homes multiple times over the last decade of near-nonstop violence.
一群男子站在当地的小学门外，艾哈迈德也在其中。他们被问到，在过去10年间几乎从未停止的暴力冲突中，有谁曾被迫多次逃亡。
“Yes, yes, all of us,” one said.
“有、有，我们这些人都是，”其中一人说。
Another school in this town was also filled with refugees, many from Diyala Province, a mixed area heavily contested by Shiite militias and Sunni militants. One of the refugees was Ahmed Awad, a 9-year-old boy whose father, he said, was recently kidnapped in front of him by masked gunmen. It was the second time in recent years he had been driven from his home.
这个村子里的另一所学校也挤满了难民，许多都来自什叶派和逊尼派大量混居的迪亚拉省，什叶派武装与逊尼派武装曾激烈争夺该省的控制权。9岁的男孩艾哈迈德·阿瓦德(Ahmed Awad)也在难民之列，他说，最近头戴面罩的持枪男子当着他的面绑架了他的父亲。这是近年来，他第二次被迫离家。
His older brother, Dia Awad, stood nearby and explained why they fled in 2007, reciting the reasons as casually as if he were reading a grocery list.
他的哥哥迪亚·阿瓦德(Dia Awad)站在不远处，解释了他们2007年逃难的原因。他提到那些原因时的随意口气，仿佛是在念一份购物清单。
“Sectarian war,” he said. “Qaeda. Clashes. They blew up our house.”
“宗派战争，”他说。“基地组织、冲突，还有他们炸掉了我们家的房子。”
Iraq faces a bleak future, with the apparent unfolding of a new sectarian civil war and the possibility of its fracturing into identities of faith or ethnicity, rather than nationality. The displaced, too, face the same divisions.
伊拉克的前途暗淡，新的宗派内战似乎正在展开，有可能因为教派和族群认同的冲突而四分五裂，从而消解国家认同。流离失所的难民之间也面临着同样的分歧。
Here in Darbandikhan, most of the displaced are Sunni Arabs fleeing the militias or government airstrikes. They are angry for their present circumstances, but express deeper grievances, rooted in history, that leave little space for reconciliation between Iraq’s Sunni minority and its Shiite majority.
在达尔班迪罕(Darbandikhan)，大多数难民都是躲避民兵或政府军空袭的逊尼派阿拉伯人。他们对自己目前的处境感到愤怒，但也表达了更深刻的不满。这种不满情绪源于历史，所以在伊拉克处于少数的逊尼派和处于多数的什叶派之间，几乎不可能实现和解。
Mr. Ahmed, reflecting a widely held belief in this country’s Sunni population, said in defiance of the facts that his sect is a majority in Iraq. In many ways, Iraq’s Sunnis have never accepted the new political order that came after the American invasion, which forced out the Sunni-dominated government of Saddam Hussein and led, through democratic elections, to Shiite domination.
艾哈迈德说，逊尼派在伊拉克占多数。他的观点代表了伊拉克逊尼派的普遍看法，但这并不符合事实。从很多方面来看，伊拉克的逊尼派从来没有接受过美国入侵后的新政治秩序。美国的入侵迫使由逊尼派主导的萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)政府倒台，之后通过民主选举确立了什叶派的统治。