It is quiet here in the Bosnian capital. The hills are beautiful now, no longer synonymous with death. Driving up into them is easy, not an endless journey of uncertain outcome across the lines. Stores do a brisk business in souvenir maps of Sarajevo under siege. Japanese groups pile into tourist buses. It is tranquil in the tapering valley.
现在波黑的首都很安静，秀美的山峦，也不再意味着死亡。开车进山轻而易举，再也不用担心这会是一个永无止境的旅程，以及倘若越界会有什么不确定的后果。出售萨拉热窝被围困时的纪念地图，成了各个商店的热门业务。日本人挤满了旅游大巴。这个渐行渐狭的山谷十分宁静。
For 16 years, after I finished my book on Yugoslavia’s bloody unraveling, I could not come back to Bosnia, could not face another Balkan history lesson or the ignorance of well-meaning people.
在完成关于南斯拉夫血腥解体的书以后，我整整16年无法再次回到波斯尼亚，无法再面对巴尔干半岛的历史教训，也无法面对善良人民的无知。
It is good to be back. Good to hear complaints about abject governance, rampant corruption, the unworkable architecture of Dayton, political parties still drawn on ethnic lines, joblessness, drift, a dysfunctional judicial system, the pettiness of sectarianism — hear all this without the flat boom of another shell’s impact in deserted streets where lives and limbs are cut.
回来真好。人们抱怨政府治理不善、腐败猖獗、失业、人们流离失所、代顿协议(Dayton)无法实施、政党仍然以族群划界、司法体系无法运转、宗派矛盾十分狭隘——但听到这些抱怨真是件好事，尤其是在我听到这些事情时，并没有传来另一枚炮弹打在空旷街道上的那种闷响，没有人死去，也没有横飞的尸体。
I find myself by chance with Tarik Sabanovic, the younger brother of Faruk, whom I wrote about during the war after he was shot in front of the Holiday Inn in 1995. Tarik recalls what happened on Nov. 9, 1993, when he was nine.
我偶然遇见了法鲁克(Faruk)的弟弟塔里克·萨巴诺维克(Tarik Sabanovic)。1995年，法鲁克在假日酒店(Holiday Inn)门前遭枪击，我随后在战争期间写了关于他的故事。塔里克回忆了1993年11月9日发生的事情，当时他只有9岁。
“I was in school with my Mickey Mouse backpack waiting for the bell to go home and I heard the shell cutting through the air. We already had 18 months of war so I knew what to do and threw myself to the ground. When I got up there was a classmate in front of me. I saw he did not have his right eye. I looked to my right and saw Sahir Kapo, he had a gaping wound in his right upper arm. I looked to my left where my best friend, Vedad Kujkanovic, who lived in my building, had been. I could not see him. He had been blown to pieces. Then I looked to where my teacher, Fatima Gunic, was. Her head was on her desk. The blackboard behind her had shrapnel holes in it. Her hair was coming out of the holes.”
“我带着我的米老鼠(Mickey Mouse)书包，等待着放学回家的铃声，然后我听见炮声从空中传来。我们已经经历了18个月的战争，所以知道该怎么做。我立即趴在了地上。当我起来的时候，前面有一个同学。我看到他的右眼没了。我望向右边，看到了萨希尔·卡波(Sahir Kapo)，他的右上臂上炸出了一个巨大的伤口。我又望向左边，和我同住一栋楼的，我最好的朋友韦达德·库伊卡诺维克(Vedad Kujkanovic)刚才还在那里，但是我看不到他了。他已经被炸成了碎片。然后我又望向老师法蒂玛·古尼茨(Fatima Gunic)刚才所在的地方。她的脑袋在桌子上。她身后的黑板上有弹片打出的坑，她的头发从坑里伸出来。”
Tarik ran. Near his home he found Faruk, who was still walking then. Faruk carried him to the family apartment. Later Tarik saw Vedad’s mother in tears. She had not been able to find a spot on her son’s body to plant a farewell kiss. All that a Serb shell had left of him was his teeth.
塔里克拔腿就跑。他在自家附近找到了法鲁克，当时他还能走路。法鲁克把他带回了家中。后来，塔里克看到韦达德的母亲泪如雨下，她竟然无法在儿子身上找到一个可以让她留下最后一吻的地方。塞尔维亚的炮弹留下的只有他的牙齿。
Later we meet up with Faruk. It is an emotional reunion. He is still in his wheelchair, beard now flecked with gray. He was 20 when I found him in Sarajevo’s Kosevo hospital in 1995 watching a video of his shooting as a United Nations soldier looked on and did nothing: The Western paralysis that abetted genocide against Bosnian Muslims and produced Srebrenica.
后来，我们见到了法鲁克。这是一次令人激动的重聚。他仍然坐在轮椅里，胡须中掺杂着斑驳的灰白色。1995年，我在萨拉热窝的科塞沃(Kosevo)医院里找到了他，20岁的他正在观看自己被枪击的录像，当时一名联合国(United Nations)士兵正在袖手旁观。正是由于西方的这种麻痹态度，波斯尼亚的穆斯林才遭到了种族屠杀，并最终导致了斯雷布雷尼察大屠杀(Srebrenica)。
Doctors in New York took an interest in Faruk after the article. He was flown there. “After the candlelight and darkness in Sarajevo I was like a fly in a heaven of lights in Manhattan. It was a bath of light. I was in Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn with a huge window looking over Manhattan, like a postcard with the Twin Towers. And then the doctors told me the news that I would never walk and the whole city went dark.”
文章发表后，纽约的医生对法鲁克产生了兴趣。于是，法鲁克飞到了纽约。“经历过萨拉热窝的烛光和黑暗之后，身处曼哈顿的我就像是一只来到了光明天堂的飞虫。我沐浴在光明之中。我住在布鲁克林的玛摩利医院(Maimonides Medical Center)，可以透过巨大的窗户俯瞰整个曼哈顿，窗外的风景就像是印着双子塔(Twin Towers)的明信片。然后医生告诉我，我永远都无法再走路了，顿时整个城市都陷入了黑暗之中。”
He returned. He studied. He fell in love and got married. He divorced. He started making music videos and commercials — “and realized I was selling my gems for detergent makers’ lies.” He wanted to make a movie that told his story. What was his story?
他回去了。他读书、恋爱、结婚，后来又离婚。他开始制作音乐视频和广告，“可是意识到我正在为洗涤剂制造商的谎言，出卖自己的宝物”。他想制作一部电影来讲述自己的故事。他的故事是什么？
Last year Faruk trained hard and after six months stood up for 30 seconds, the first time in 17 years. He says, “I kind of fight against hope all the time. It is always a difficult moment when I get hope because I hear of some new chip, so I try to ignore it.” He is a Bosnian, a survivor, someone who “lives and shares with everybody.” Beauty and peace interest him, not the war.
去年，法鲁克经过6个月的艰苦训练，起身站立了30秒。这是17年来的第一次。他说，“我似乎总不敢抱有希望。每次因为听说一些新东西而燃起希望时，我都会很难过，所以我试着去忽略它。”他是一个波斯尼亚人，一个幸存者，一个“活着并且会与所有人分享”的人。让他感兴趣的是美丽与和平，而不是战争。
The movie he is directing is called “Birds Like Us,” based on the work of the 13th century Sufi poet, Farid al-Din Attar. Faruk wrote the script, Tarik is also involved. It is a 3D animation feature using high-end technology. The birds travel far and wide but find in the end the life-unlocking secret they seek lies in themselves.
他正在执导的电影叫《像我们一样的鸟儿》(Birds Like Us)，其蓝本是13世纪苏非派诗人法里德·丁·阿塔尔(Farid al-Din Attar)的作品。法鲁克撰写了剧本，塔里克也参与了编剧。这是一部使用先进技术的3D动画长片。片中的鸟儿飞越了千山万水，最后却发现，它们一直寻找的生命的奥秘就在自己身上。
It was hard to find qualified people in Sarajevo to work. Two who had the technological skills were Serbs from Pale, the headquarters during the war of the nationalist forces that bombarded Sarajevo. Perhaps one had fired the shell that shattered Tarik’s classroom. Perhaps the other was the sniper who paralyzed Faruk.
要在萨拉热窝找到合格的工作人员并非易事。两个会这种技术的人都是来自帕莱的塞尔维亚族人。帕莱在战时是民族主义部队的大本营，轰炸萨拉热窝的人正是他们。或许塔里克的教室就是被其中一人所发射的炮弹炸毁的。或许另一人就是使法鲁克终身瘫痪的狙击手。
Faruk hired them in 2010. They talked a lot about the war. Later one of the Serbs was killed in a car crash. At the funeral near Pale there was talk of how he had made the mistake of working for Muslims.
法鲁克于2010年雇佣了他们。他们谈论了很多关于战争的话题。后来，其中一个塞族人在一起车祸中丧生。他的葬礼在帕莱附近举行，有人说他犯了一个错误，竟然去为穆斯林工作。
You carry on. You believe, even if it takes 17 years to stand upright for 30 seconds. Each healing act counts. “Hiring guys from the other side was the ultimate victory.” Tarik says.
要坚持，要深信不疑，即便花17年的时间才站立起30秒。每个愈合行动都有作用。塔里克说，“雇佣另一边的人，就是一种最终的胜利。”