A jewel thief brandishing a gun entered an exclusive hotel along the French Riviera on Sunday morning, eluded security guards and well-heeled guests, and left with a glittering haul worth perhaps $50 million, according to the regional state prosecutor’s office.
一名持枪的珠宝窃贼周日早上闯进了法国东南部沿海地区的一座高档酒店，据当地的地区共和国检察官办公室称，这名窃贼绕过保安和富有的酒店房客，偷走了一大批光彩夺目的宝物，总价值可能达到5000万美元（约合3.07亿人民币）。
The theft occurred at the Carlton InterContinental Hotel along the Promenade de la Croisette in Cannes, a Mediterranean playground for the word’s rich and famous.
盗窃案发生在戛纳克鲁瓦塞特大道边的卡尔顿洲际酒店(Carlton InterContinental Hotel)，这座城市是全世界富豪与名流云集的地中海游乐胜地。
It comes just days after the Swiss police announced that a member of the Pink Panther gang of jewel thieves had escaped from a prison in Switzerland. The gang, which has ties to the Balkans, is said to have hit hundreds of high-end boutiques all over the globe, making off with hundreds of millions of dollars in jewelry.
就在几天前，瑞士警方刚刚发布通报，称有一名“粉红豹”(Pink Panther)珠宝盗窃集团成员已经从该国一个监狱逃脱。这个和巴尔干地区有关联的犯罪集团据说已经对全球数以百计的高档奢侈品商店下过手，盗取了价值数亿美元的珠宝。
The theft had all the hallmarks of a Hollywood movie, including the set, the Carlton, where Alfred Hitchcock filmed “To Catch a Thief,” the 1955 movie about a jewel thief prowling the French Riviera, starring Cary Grant and Grace Kelly. Reached by telephone, hotel officials would not comment.
这起盗窃案具备好莱坞电影的所有元素，包括案发地卡尔顿酒店，阿尔弗雷德·希区柯克(Alfred Hitchcock)的1955年影片《捉贼记》(To Catch a Thief)就是在这里拍摄的，讲述了一个珠宝大盗在法属里维埃拉的行动，由加里·格兰特(Cary Grant)和格蕾丝·凯利(Grace Kelly)主演。酒店方面接到电话后拒绝置评。
Several news agencies, citing unnamed officials, estimated the value of the stolen goods at more than $50 million, but the officials cautioned that the estimate was preliminary.
多家新闻媒体援引数位不具名官方人士的话说，被盗财物估值超过5000万美元，但这些官员提醒说，这只是个初步的估计。
Details of the theft were slow to emerge on Sunday. The police in Cannes and the nearby city of Nice, the regional hub, said by telephone that they had no information about the case. No suspects have been named.
周日，有关盗窃案的细节并未迅速浮现。戛纳和毗邻的该地区中心城市尼斯的警方通过电话表示，关于此案他们无可奉告，也没有公布任何嫌疑人姓名。
News agencies said the stolen jewels were part of an exhibition put on by the Leviev diamond house. Calls made to Leviev were not answered on Sunday.
新闻媒体称，被盗珠宝是列维夫(Leviev)钻石行举办的一场展览的展品。该公司周日没有接听电话。
Around 11:30, a man wearing a cap, and with a scarf or bandanna over his face, entered the hotel carrying what appeared to be an automatic pistol, the office of the regional state prosecutor in Grasse told Agence France-Presse. He entered the exhibition while several people, including security guards, were there.
格拉斯地区共和国检察官办公室对法新社说，上午11:30左右，一名戴着帽子、脸上蒙着围巾或头巾的男子走进酒店，看上去手上拿着一把自动手枪。在他进入时，包括保安在内的几个人就在展厅里。
“Everything happened very quickly and without violence,” the prosecutor’s office said, according to A.F.P., which said the man made off with several bags full of jewels and watches.
“整个行动很迅速，没有暴力，”法新社引用检察官办公室的话说，并且提到这名男子拿走了几个装满珠宝和手表的袋子。
The prosecutor’s office said $50 million was “a provisional estimate” of the jewels’ value, but might not be “trustworthy,” Agence France-Presse reported. An inventory was under way Sunday, the office said.
据法新社报道，检察官办公室称5000万美元是对失窃珠宝价值进行的“一个暂时性的估计”，但可能并不“可靠”。该办公室说，周日进行了库存盘点。
Thieves have plied a lucrative trade in Cannes this year. In May alone, several million dollars’ worth of jewelry was reported stolen in two separate robberies at luxury hotels during the Cannes Film Festival, which typically attracts a wealthy and bejeweled crowd.
盗贼今年在戛纳收获颇丰。仅在5月就有豪华酒店报告了两起劫案，涉案珠宝价值数百万美元。当时正值戛纳电影节期间，通常会有许多珠光宝气的富人前来这里。
In one episode, thieves stole a necklace by the Swiss jeweler De Grisogono reportedly worth $2.5 million. A week earlier, about $1 million in jewelry was taken from the room of an employee of Chopard, the Swiss jewelers.  
在其中一宗案件中，盗贼偷走了瑞士珠宝行德格里索戈诺(De Grisogono)出品的一串项链，据称价值250万美元。而在该案案发一周前，价值约100万美元的珠宝在瑞士珠宝行萧邦(Chopard)的一名雇员的房间里失窃。
Other thefts elsewhere have been far more dramatic. In February, thieves dressed as police officers and armed with automatic weapons surrounded a plane packed with diamonds that was parked on the tarmac at the Brussels airport. In a matter of minutes, they were able to make off with tens millions of dollars in stones. The diamonds were later recovered and several arrests were made.
在其他一些地方还发生过更离奇的盗窃案。2月，乔装成警察的盗贼手持自动武器包围了一架飞机，当时这架载有大量钻石的飞机正停在布鲁塞尔机场的停机坪上。他们在几分钟内盗取了价值数千万美元的宝石。这些钻石后来被追回，有数人被捕。
Perhaps the costliest theft in recent memory occurred in France in 2008. In a crime called the robbery of the century by French news media, a pack of thieves, some posing as women and at least one with a hand grenade, robbed the Harry Winston jewelry store in Paris of roughly $110 million worth of diamonds, rings and watches.
2008年在法国发生的一起劫案可能是近年来损失最惨重的。在这场法国媒体所称的世纪大劫案中，一伙匪徒洗劫了巴黎的哈里·温斯顿(Harry Winston)珠宝商店，劫走价值约1.1亿美元的钻石、戒指和手表。这些匪徒中有的伪装成女人，至少有一个人手中拿着手雷。
More than two years later, some of the diamonds were found in a drainpipe north of Paris.
两年多后，其中一些钻石在巴黎北部的一条下水道里被找到。