On Saturday night, Vanity Fair (the American edition) hosted a party at the Hotel du Cap-Eden-Roc, just outside Cannes, for a star-packed party that ran until 2 a.m.
周六晚上，《名利场》（Vanity Fair，美国版）在戛纳郊区的伊甸园岩石角酒店举办了一个派对，这个明星云集的派对一直持续到凌晨2点。
Jennifer Lawrence arrived around midnight, just after the producers of “The Hunger Games” finished parading her in front of international buyers at a nearby event. Sylvester Stallone smoked a cigar in the hallway, checked himself out in the mirror and began nodding approvingly at his own reflection. 
詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)差不多在午夜时分到达。《饥饿游戏》(The Hunger Games)的制作人们刚在附近的一个活动中在国际买家们面前夸赞完她。席尔维斯特·史泰龙(Sylvester Stallone)在走廊上抽雪茄，在镜子前检查自己的妆容，对镜中的自己满意地点了点头。
In the center of the main room was Justin Bieber, in a mustard-colored leather jacket and jeans. He exchanged info with Jamal Al Sharif, the head of the Dubai Film Commission, who was promising all sorts of gifts if Mr. Bieber were to make an appearance.
贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)站在大厅中央，身穿深黄色皮夹克和牛仔裤。他在和迪拜电影委员会主席贾马尔·阿尔·谢里夫(Jamal Al Sharif)交谈，后者承诺如果比伯出席，会给他各种礼物。
“I love Dubai,” Mr. Bieber said, his cellphone out. 
“我很喜欢迪拜，”比伯一边说着一边拿出手机。
Had any of the celebrities here — who included Julianne Moore, Edward Norton, Naomi Watts, Pamela Anderson, Harrison Ford and Russell Crowe — actually been to a movie this week?
出席的明星还包括朱利安·摩尔(Julianne Moore)、爱德华·诺顿(Edward Norton)、娜奥米·沃茨(Naomi Watts)、帕梅拉·安德逊(Pamela Anderson)、哈里森·福特(Harrison Ford)和罗素·克劳(Russell Crowe)，他们当中有哪位这周真的去看电影了？
It didn’t seem so.
好像没有。
“Oh no, I’m not going to the movies,” said Bryan Ferry, who was milling out by the deck, looking at yachts. “I’m staying in the hills.”
“哦，没有，我不去看电影，”布莱恩·费瑞(Bryan Ferry)说。他在露台上闲逛，遥望游艇，“我就待在山上。”
Mr. Bieber added: “I’m here to have fun. I’m here to socialize.”
比伯补充说，“我来这儿就是来玩儿的，来社交的。”
And there was certainly no shortage of opportunities to socialize. The Cannes film festival has become one of the year’s most important marketing opportunities for luxury brands, a kind of mini-Superbowl for fashion.
这里绝不缺乏社交机会。戛纳电影节已经成了奢侈品牌一年中最重要的市场营销机会之一，像是时尚界的迷你超级碗。
Scores of top fashion brands are here, doling out free airline tickets, hotels, clothes and even cash to top actresses to strut around in their products. Last Thursday, Calvin Klein co-sponsored a Women in Film event at a private hillside villa attended by Ms. Moore, Ms. Watts, Lupita Nyong’o and Rooney Mara — all of whom wore the company’s dresses and gamely posed for pictures. On Friday, Vivienne Westwood helped Pamela Anderson kick off her new foundation. On Saturday, Giorgio Armani sponsored the Vanity Fair party. And on Sunday, Chopard took over a suite at the Martinez Hotel on the Promenade de la Croissette for what was billed as an “intimate dinner.”
很多顶级时装品牌都来到这里，向顶级女演员们发放免费机票、酒店、服装、甚至现金，好让她们穿着这些品牌的衣服四处走动。上周四，Calvin Klein在山坡上的一个私人别墅里合作赞助了一个名叫“电影中的女人”(Women in Film)的活动，摩尔、沃茨、露皮塔·尼永奥(Lupita Nyong’o)和鲁妮·玛拉(Rooney Mara)都参加了这个活动，身穿该品牌的连衣裙，不停地摆姿势拍照。周五，薇薇恩·韦斯特伍德(Vivienne Westwood)帮助帕梅拉·安德逊开启了她的新基金会。周六，乔治·阿玛尼(Giorgio Armani)赞助了《名利场》的派对。周日，萧邦(Chopard)在克鲁瓦塞特大道的马丁内斯酒店订了一个套房，举办了一个它所宣称的“亲密的晚宴”。
Intimate, in this case, involved giant wall-mounted televisions that showed a loop of Uma Thurman and Cate Blanchett in the company’s wares. Cases of jewelry were lit from above like Porsches in a car dealership. Colin Firth and his wife, Livia, co-hosted. And during the meal, a businessman from Beijing happily told table mates that his custom-made Roberto Cavalli dinner jacket cost him 68,000 euros.
在这里，“亲密”的意思是墙上挂着巨大的电视，展示乌玛·瑟曼(Uma Thurman)和凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)身穿该品牌的服装的照片。一盒盒珠宝从上面照亮，就像汽车店里的保时捷。科林·弗思(Colin Firth)和妻子利维亚(Livia)联合主持了该活动。在宴会上，一位北京来的商人高兴地告诉同桌的人，他的罗伯特·卡沃利(Roberto Cavalli)定制晚礼服花了他6.8万欧元。
“It took 11 months to make,” he said.
“花了11个月才做好呢，”他说。
A larger scale Chopard gala was scheduled for Monday.
而在周一，还会有一个大型萧邦庆典呢。