CANNES — As the 67th annual Cannes International Film Festival opened here today, Nicole Kidman diplomatically addressed criticism of the opening-night film, “Grace of Monaco,” in which she plays the title role.
戛纳——今天，第67届戛纳国际电影节在此开幕。妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)委婉地回应了她主演的开幕影片《摩纳哥王妃》(Grace of Monaco)受到的批评。
Ms. Kidman, her skin ethereal and wrists flashing with diamond bracelets, acknowledged that it was “awkward” that Monaco’s ruling Grimaldi family, the children of Princess Grace and Prince Rainier III, had criticized the film as “a farce.”
基德曼身着优雅的礼服，戴着闪亮的钻石手镯。她承认，摩纳哥的统治家族格里马尔迪家族、格蕾丝王妃和雷尼尔三世王子的孩子们认为这部电影是“闹剧”，令她“十分尴尬”。
“I feel sad because I think that the film has no malice toward the family or particularly towards Grace or Rainier,” Ms. Kidman said. “I understand the protection of the privacy of their mother and father,” she continued, adding: “I want them to know that the performance was done with love and if they see it I think they’d see there’s an enormous amount of affection for their parents and for the love story of their parents.”
 “我觉得很悲哀，因为我认为这部电影对这个家族，尤其是对格蕾丝和雷尼尔，没有任何恶意，”基德曼说，“我理解他们是想保护父母的隐私。” 她又补充说：“我想让他们知道我们是在用爱表演，如果他们能看出这一点，我想他们会发现我们对他们的父母以及他们的爱情故事怀着深厚的感情。”
Directed by Olivier Dahan, “Grace of Monaco” is set in the early 1960s and shows France trying to annex Monaco and claim its tax revenue. For months, the film has been the subject of discord over its content and planned release. In addition to the Grimaldis’ criticism, the director and Harvey Weinstein, the co-chairman of the company expected to distribute “Grace” in the United States, have been involved in a dispute over the film’s final version and other matters.
《摩纳哥王妃》由奥利维尔·达昂(Olivier Dahan)导演，以20世纪60年代初为背景，讲述的是法国企图把摩纳哥变成自己的附属国，获得该国的税收。几个月来，就该片的内容和发行安排问题出现了很多争执。除了格里马尔迪家族的批评，导演达昂和哈维·韦恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)就影片的最终版本和其他问题也发生了争执。韦恩斯坦是有望在美国发行该片的公司的联合主席。
On Wednesday, Mr. Weinstein said that he was prevented from attending the Cannes premiere by humanitarian duty.
周三，韦恩斯坦说由于人道主义责任，他无法参加该片在戛纳的首映式。
In the statement, he said: “My wife, Georgina, and I have been in Jordan visiting two Syrian refugee camps, Al Zaatri yesterday and Azraq today. This was a long-planned trip with the UNHCR” — the United Nations refugee agency — “and our friend Neil Gaiman to bring attention to the plight of refugees who have been forced to flee Syria and the incredible work of UNHCR.” The statement went on to wish the film’s team “all the best for the screening in Cannes tonight.”
他在声明中说：“我和妻子乔治娜(Georgina)在约旦访问两个叙利亚难民营，昨天在扎塔里，今天在阿兹拉克。这是我们和联合国难民署很早之前就定好了的计划。同行的还有我们的朋友尼尔·盖曼(Neil Gaiman)。我们想让公众关注被迫逃离叙利亚的难民的困境，以及联合国难民署了不起的工作。”他还在声明中预祝该片剧组“今晚在戛纳的首映圆满成功”。
In an interview only last week, David Glasser, Weinstein’s president, had said that Mr. Weinstein would attend the premiere with the rest of the Weinstein team.
但是就在上周的采访中，韦恩斯坦公司的董事长大卫·格拉瑟(David Glasser)说韦恩斯坦将和团队的其他成员一起参加首映式。
At a news conference here in Cannes, Mr. Dahan suggested the dispute was over. Speaking in French, he said of Mr. Weinstein: “Harvey is going to go out with his version. If we’re making changes, we’ll do them together. There are no more polemics, it’s all resolved, we’re working together.”
在戛纳的新闻发布会上，达昂暗示争执已经结束。他用法语说：“哈维将放弃自己的版本。如果我们要做出改变，我们会一起商量。不再有争论了，已经都解决了。我们现在一起合作。”
Adding a somber note to the opening festivities, some actors expressed sadness at the news of the death by apparent suicide of the Swedish director Malik Bendjelloul, whose 2012 documentary, “Searching for Sugar Man,” won the Academy Award for best documentary. Tim Roth, who plays Prince Rainier in “Grace of Monaco,” called the director’s death “incredibly sad,” while Mr. Dahan said “Searching for Sugar Man” was “a beautiful movie.”
有些演员对看似因自杀而去世的瑞典导演马利克·本德让劳尔(Malik Bendjelloul)表示哀悼，给开幕活动添加了一丝低落的气氛。本德让劳尔2012年的纪录片《寻找小糖人》(Searching for Sugar Man)获得了奥斯卡最佳纪录片奖。在《 摩纳哥王妃》中扮演雷尼尔王子的蒂姆·罗斯(Tim Roth)称这位导演的去世“令人十分难过”，达昂则表示，《寻找小糖人》是一部“美丽的电影”。