It takes seven minutes.
整个过程需要七分钟。
A dusting of Clinique Stay-Matte powder in honey. A hand-stitched wig. Eyebrows glued up into tiny peaks. The rest is left to Alec Baldwin: the puckered lips, a studied lumbering gait and a wariness of humanizing a man he reviles.
扑上倩碧Stay-Matte蜜粉。戴上手工缝制的假发。给眉毛粘出小小的眉峰。剩下的就靠亚历克·鲍德温(Alec Baldwin)自己了：撅起的嘴唇，刻意的笨拙步态，还要留神不要让自己憎恨的这个人显出人情味。
The transformation of Baldwin, an outspoken liberal, into the president-elect, Donald Trump, for his running parody on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live,” entails a tangerine hairpiece and a tricky tightrope walk. It means balancing a veteran actor’s determination to merge his identity into a character, even as, in his offstage life, he is firm in his belief that the man about to take office is a dangerous figure.
鲍德温是一个毫不掩饰的自由主义者，为了在NBC台《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)中的戏仿节目里变身候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)，他需要一顶橘色假发，同时还要小心面对一种很复杂的局面。这意味要调整一个老戏骨的决心，从而把个人身份融入到角色中去，尽管在现实生活中，他坚信这位即将上任的总统是个危险人物。
The key to a convincing Trump, the actor said, are “puffs” — his word for the pregnant pauses in the president-elect’s speech. “I see a guy who seems to pause and dig for the more precise and better language he wants to use, and never finds it,” Baldwin said in an interview on Saturday in his dressing room at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan, six hours before show time, his eyebrows already peaked. “It’s the same dish — it’s a grilled-cheese sandwich rhetorically over and over again.”
这位演员说，要想让自己饰演的特朗普令人信服，关键就在于“喘” 着说话―― 他用这个词来形容候任总统在演讲时酝酿言辞时的停顿。 “我看到一个人似乎停下来，寻找自己想要的更精确、更好的语言， 却从来没有找到它，”鲍德温周六在曼哈顿洛克菲勒广场30号内的更衣室里接受采访时说，此时距离节目开始还有六个小时，他的眉峰已经做好了。 “这是同一道菜――这是同一道烤奶酪三明治，只是用虚夸的方法说了一遍又一遍。”
Much has been made of Trump’s hands. For Baldwin, they are a focus, but for their movements. Before the actor’s first appearance, he watched hours of rallies and campaign appearances to mimic Trump’s style.
鲍德温在特朗普的两只手上花了很大功夫。对于鲍德温来说，它们非常重要，主要是因为特朗普的手势。第一次出演之前，为了模仿特朗普的风格，他观看了几个小时的集会和竞选活动录像。
His Trump is as much censure as impersonation. He does not write the sketches. He is paid $1,400 for each appearance on the show, he said.
他带来的特朗普既是谴责又是模仿。小品本身不是他写的。他说，自己每次在节目中出场可以得到1400美元的报酬。
“I’m not interested much by what’s inside him,” he said, but in how he moves and takes up space. Baldwin then amplifies the gestures, and distills them. An emphatic wave becomes a goofy “wax-on, wax-off” movement, he said, the simple hand motion reducing a candidate to an essence: pitchman.
“我对他的内心不感兴趣，”他说，他感兴趣的是特朗普如何移动，如何占据空间。接下来，鲍德温把特朗普的手势进行夸大与提炼。 一个表示强调的挥手动作变成了滑稽的“打蜡，去蜡”的动作，他说，这个简单的手势概括出总统候选人的本质：一个推销员。
“Saturday Night Live” happens at a lightning pace: Those minutes of preparation include dusting the sunset color across Baldwin’s face — but not around his eyes, where “raccoon” circles of white are drawn, he said.
《周六夜生活》的进行节奏是极快的：前几分钟的准备工作包括在鲍德温脸上喷洒落日般的颜色――只有他的眼睛除外，他说，他的眼周要涂上“浣熊”式的白眼圈。
The wig, which on Saturday night rested high on a shelf next to the actor Kate McKinnon’s Hillary Clinton hair, is custom made for Baldwin’s head, via seven vectors measured forehead to nape, according to Jodi Mancuso, the show’s hair designer.
星期六晚上，为他量头定制的假发和希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的假发并排放在一起——克林顿由演员凯特·麦金农(Kate McKinnon)饰演。该节目的发型设计师朱迪·曼库索(Jodi Mancuso)说， 假发是根据从前额到脖颈测出的七个数值定制的。
“It helps him transform instantly,” Mancuso said. “The minute it goes on with the makeup, it’s like, ‘Oh, I get it.'”
“它帮他在瞬间变身，”曼库索说。 “化妆过程中把它戴上去的那一刻，感觉就像是，‘哦，我明白了’。”
Baldwin said that he planned to continue playing Trump on “Saturday Night Live” and perhaps elsewhere, but that his work schedule — he is about to film two movies — would mean his performances would be intermittent. Besides, he said, it might start to get old for audiences.
鲍德温说，他计划继续在《周六夜现场》饰演特朗普，或许还会在其他地方出演，但他即将拍摄两部电影，这个工作安排意味着他的表演会是断断续续的。此外，他说，观众可能会开始厌倦。
It has been suggested that Baldwin, 58, is uniquely able to portray Trump — and to rankle him — because of their similarities. In 2011, Baldwin mulled running for mayor of New York City. They can both appear thin-skinned. Antagonized by paparazzi and feeling harassed by what he says are false accusations that he uttered slurs, Baldwin has at times publicly denounced the media. On Twitter, he can be pugilistic, notably with Trump and with his brother Stephen Baldwin, over their divergent political views.
鲍德温今年58岁，他和特朗普的相似之处让一些人觉得他是饰演——以及惹怒——特朗普的不二人选。2011年，鲍德温仔细考虑过竞选纽约市市长的可能性。他和特朗普都显得有些敏感易怒。鲍德温有时会公开谴责媒体，因为狗仔队令他恼怒，关于他使用侮辱性言辞的指责也令他烦恼（他声称这些指责是假的）。在Twitter上，他可能显得很好斗，特别是针对特朗普和他的兄弟史蒂芬·鲍德温(Stephen Baldwin)这两个和他存在政治分歧的人。
Such a comparison profoundly pains Baldwin, whose father was a public-school teacher from Long Island, N.Y. He says he has striven not to let his financial success mar his values, and he vehemently denies the racist and homophobic slurs that have been ascribed to him. “The difference is, with Trump, it’s incontrovertible that he has said the things he’s said,” Baldwin said. “And he ran on them.'’
这样的比较令鲍德温深感痛苦，他的父亲是来自纽约州长岛的公立学校教师。 他说，自己努力不让财务上的成功破坏自己的价值观，他强烈否认自己曾经使用过那些同他挂上勾的种族主义与同性恋歧视的侮辱性言辞。 “我们之间的区别是，特朗普说过那些话是不可否认的，”鲍德温说。 “他滔滔不绝地抛出那些话。”
As a candidate, Trump protested the “Saturday Night Live” portrayal of him, calling it part of a “rigged” media campaign to undermine him. Baldwin said that Lorne Michaels, the creator and executive producer of “Saturday Night Live,” has countered that the sketch show has long been an equal-opportunity heckler.
竞选总统期间，特朗普曾经抗议《周六夜现场》塑造的这个形象，称其属于受到“操纵”的媒体运动，以此破坏他的竞选。鲍德温说，《周六夜现场》的主创和执行制片人洛恩·迈克尔斯(Lorne Michaels)反驳说，这个小品节目向来对所有人一视同仁。
As president-elect, Trump has continued to tweet his displeasure. “Just tried watching Saturday Night Live — unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can’t get any worse. Sad,” he posted just after midnight on Dec. 4.
成为候任总统之后，特朗普继续发推表示不满。 “试着看了看《周六夜现场》 ――没法看！彻底的偏见，不好笑，鲍德温的模仿没法更糟糕了。可悲，”他在12月4日午夜之后发推说。
Baldwin said that he considered the reprobation “funny,” even as a fake news article has circulated since his first appearance as Trump, mourning the actor’s death.
鲍德温说，他认为这个斥责很“搞笑”，尽管从他第一次出演特朗普之后，就有哀悼这位演员已经死亡的假新闻流传开来。
As the call to dress for rehearsal sounded in the eighth-floor corridor at 30 Rock, Baldwin ducked into his dressing room with his wife, Hilaria, and 3-year-old daughter Carmen, who had stopped by to kiss him good night, shutting the door.
洛克菲勒30号的八楼走廊上传来叫声，要大家穿好衣服去排练， 鲍德温和妻子希拉莉亚(Hilaria)以及三岁的女儿卡门(Carmen)一起走进更衣室，她们是顺便过来和他道晚安的，鲍德温关上了门。
Suddenly, he popped it back open.
突然，他猛地把门推开了。
“Whoever it is, wouldn’t it be great to be the person who pulls the sword out of the stone? Who gets rid of this guy?” Baldwin said into the hallway. “Wouldn’t that be thrilling?”
“无论是谁，成为那个把剑从石头上拔出来的人不是很好吗？成为除掉这个家伙的人，”鲍德温站在走廊里说。 “那肯定很刺激吧？”
He closed the door and put on his suit.
他关上门，穿上他的西装。