LONDON — Since the world awoke, on Aug. 31, 1997, to the news that Princess Diana had died at 36, after a paparazzi-fueled car crash in Paris, there have been hundreds of films, documentaries, biographies and tell-all memoirs about the shy young woman who became a global celebrity after marrying the heir to the British throne.
伦敦——自从1997年8月31日这一天，世界惊悉戴安娜王妃为了躲避狗仔队在巴黎出车祸去世、享年36岁之后，有关这个原本腼腆却在嫁给英国王位继承人后成为全球名人的年轻女子的电影、纪录片、传记和全盘揭秘的回忆录就数以百计。
On Monday, a new ITV documentary about Diana arrives on HBO, with one significant difference. Called “Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy,” it is the first to feature Diana’s two sons with Prince Charles, William and Harry, speaking about their mother as they look through family photographs, reminisce about their childhood and revisit the scenes of her charitable activities.
周一，独立电视台(ITV)制作的一部有关戴安娜的新纪录片登陆HBO。这部名为《我们的母亲戴安娜：她的生平和影响》(Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy)的纪录片与其他作品有着显著的不同，它是首部以戴安娜与查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)的两个儿子威廉(William)和哈里(Harry)为主角的纪录片。他们一边翻看家庭照、回忆童年生活并重温戴安娜参加慈善活动时的情景，一边聊他们的母亲。
It’s a coup for the producer Nicolas Kent and the director Ashley Gething, the team that made the documentary “Our Queen at 90” in 2016 (and previously collaborated with the historian Simon Schama on “Obama’s America” and “Simon Schama’s Shakespeare”). Although the princes, notably Harry, have been more open about their personal lives to the press than any royal figure since Diana herself, they have been reserved on the topic of their mother. “We’ve never spoken in depth about her in this way before, and we do not plan to do so again in the future,” William said in his introduction to the film at a screening at Kensington Palace this month.
对制片人尼古拉斯·肯特(Nicolas Kent)和导演阿什利·格辛(Ashley Gething)来说，这是一次重大胜利。他们两人团队的作品包括2016年的《我们90岁的女王》(Our Queen at 90)（之前还与历史学家西蒙·沙马[Simon Schama]合作过《奥巴马的美国》[Obama’s America]和《西蒙·沙马的莎士比亚》[Simon Schama’s Shakespeare]）。尽管两位王子，尤其是哈里，已经比自戴安娜之后的其他任何王室成员都更愿意谈论个人生活，但在母亲这个话题上，两人一直保持缄默。“我们以前从来没有这样深入谈论过她，将来也不打算再这么做了，”威廉本月在肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)的放映活动上介绍这部纪录片时说。
The seeds of “Diana, Our Mother,” were sown while filming “Our Queen at 90,” Mr. Kent said in an interview with both him and Mr. Gething at his offices here. Having established good relationships with both William and Harry, they approached the palace about making a film centered on the two men. “We didn’t know exactly what it would be,” Mr. Gething said. “But through the course of various conversations on the earlier film, it became clear that they were picking up where their mother had left off with a number of charities. With the 20th anniversary of Diana’s death approaching, we felt this would be timely.”
肯特在他的办公室和格辛一起接受采访时说，《我们的母亲戴安娜》的种子，是在拍摄《我们90岁的女王》时种下的。在同威廉和哈里都建立起了良好的关系后，他们前往肯辛顿宫，提出拍摄一部以两位王子为主角的纪录片。“我们根本不知道片子会是什么样子，”格辛说。“但通过影片初期所做的各种交流，情况变得明朗起来，他们正在继续他们的母亲留下的大量慈善活动。随着戴安娜去世20周年纪念日的临近，我们觉得这个时机很合适。”
The princes agreed, and offered to show photographs from recently discovered albums created for them by Diana. The documentary opens with William, 35, and Harry, 32, looking at a photograph of a pregnant Diana holding her very small first son. “Believe it or not, you and I are both in this picture,” William tells Harry. Then the camera cuts to Harry. “Arguably, probably a little bit too raw up until this point. It’s still raw,” he says.
两位王子同意了，并主动拿出最近发现的一些影集里的照片，那些影集都是戴安娜给他们做的。影片一开始，35岁的威廉和32岁的哈里盯着一张照片。照片上，已有身孕的戴安娜抱着当时还非常小的大儿子。“不管你信不信，我和你都在这张照片里，”威廉对哈里说。然后，镜头切到哈里。“可以说，可能直到这一刻还有些心痛。依然心痛，”他说。
It’s a poignant moment that reveals the differences between the two men. William, although candid about memories, is polished and circumspect, as he has presumably learned to be in his more exposed role as second in line to the throne. Harry is less guarded, more revealing. (Recently, he has publicly expressed his regret at waiting until the age of 28 to seek counseling to help deal with the trauma of losing his mother.)
这是酸楚的一刻，揭示出两人之间的不同。威廉尽管对记忆开诚布公，但举止优雅谨慎，这大概是因为作为王位的第二顺位继承人，他曝光更多，所以学会了这样。哈里没有那么谨慎，更容易暴露自己的情绪（最近，他公开表示很后悔到28岁才寻求辅导，帮助治疗丧母造成的心理创伤）。
“It’s really a film about love and memory, which makes it unusual as a royal film, which are often more about respect,” Mr. Gething said. “It’s about sadness and joy and loss. On the one hand it’s very personal, but it’s also universal; you can relate to the things they remember and talk about.”
“其实这是一部关于爱和记忆的影片，这让它成了一部与众不同的王室影片，后者往往更多是关于尊敬，”格辛说。“它是关于悲伤、喜悦和失去的影片。一方面，它非常私人，但也很普遍；观众能理解、同情他们记起和说起的事情。”
Mr. Kent said that there were no topics deemed off-limits, nor was editorial approval demanded by the palace. (The princes’ well-honed training in discretion, and the way Diana is lovingly shown through their eyes, probably made that unnecessary anyway.) The film moves in and out of the interview with the princes as it loosely sketches Diana’s life. We see home movies of her as a child, the youngest daughter of the venerable aristocratic Spencer family, and photographs of a pretty, shy teenager, as friends from her early years recount their memories. “We wanted it to feel like a story from the inside, so deliberately didn’t interview some of the people you might expect,” Mr. Kent said.
肯特说，没有预设禁忌话题，肯辛顿宫也没有提出审片要求（好吧，可能是两位王子在谨言慎行方面的丰富训练和戴安娜在他们眼中爱意满满的形象，或许根本无需审片）。在大致勾勒戴安娜的一生期间，影片不断切入对两位王子的采访。在和戴安娜早年相识的友人述说各自的记忆时，我们能看到她作为德高望重的贵族斯潘塞家最小的女儿还是个孩子时的家庭影片，以及她出落成一个腼腆、漂亮的小姑娘后的照片。“我们想让影片给人一种幕后故事的感觉，所以故意避开了观众可能以为会出现的人，”肯特说。
Mr. Gething added: “There were not going to be biographers, prime ministers and royalty experts. Just the people who knew her and loved her best.”
格辛接着说：“不会出现传记作者、首相和王室专家。只有最了解她，最爱她的人。”
The film largely ignores the scandal, media frenzy and speculation over Diana and Charles’s infidelities, televised confessional interviews and subsequent divorce, although the princes offer stoic, sad memories of too much time spent in cars driving between their parents, and never seeing enough of either. The most moving part of the documentary has the princes discussing their memories of their last phone call with their mother, speaking from Paris, where she would die in a midnight car chase, as her driver tried to escape a horde of photographers following the car. “It’s like an earthquake just run through the house and through your life and everything,” Prince William said about learning of her death.
影片基本上忽略了有关戴安娜的丑闻、媒体炒作和猜测，以及查尔斯的婚外恋、在电视上接受采访时的坦白和后来的离婚，尽管两位王子隐忍地回忆了他们花大量时间乘车往返父亲和母亲的住所，并且从来没和两人中的任何一方长期相处的伤心经历。影片最感人的部分，是他们回忆母亲从巴黎打来的最后一通电话；因为司机试图摆脱一大群紧追不舍的摄影师，戴安娜在午夜的飞车追逐中去世。“就像一场地震，震动了整栋房屋、整个生活和一切，”威廉王子描绘得知母亲去世的感觉时说。
Mr. Gething and Mr. Kent said that given how many documentaries have been made about Diana, they didn’t feel any obligation to be comprehensive or definitive. (These are as varied as the relatively sober “Diana: Queen of Hearts” and the more out-there “Conspiracy.”) “A reference point for all our decisions was the idea that we were making a film that in years to come, the princes could show their children,” Mr. Kent said.
格辛和肯特说，考虑到有关戴安娜的纪录片已经有很多了，他们觉得不必做到全面或权威（这些纪录片各不相同，从相对严肃的《黛安娜：我们心中的女王》[Diana: Queen of Hearts]到更加不同寻常的《阴谋》[Conspiracy]）。“我们所有决定的参照点都是，我们是在制作一部多年后，两位王子可能会放给他们的孩子看的影片，”肯特说。
The final section of the film focuses on Diana’s charity work for the homeless, AIDS patients and land mine victims. It also shows the princes’ sustained efforts to continue in her path, as they visit homeless shelters, comfort the bereaved and meet two Bosnian men who lost limbs in explosions, both of whom Diana visited a few weeks before she died, when they were teenagers.
影片的最后一部分聚焦戴安娜为无家可归者、艾滋病患者和地雷受害者所做的慈善工作。影片还介绍了两位王子为继续母亲的慈善事业所做的持续努力。他们走访流浪人员收容所、安慰逝者的亲人，并同两名在爆炸中失去四肢的波斯尼亚男子会面，戴安娜曾在去世前几周还探访过他们。那时，他们才十几岁。
What the documentary also shows is Diana’s other important legacy: what Tina Brown describes in her 2007 biography, “The Diana Chronicles,” as “the understanding of the power of the inclusive gesture.” The new generation of royals clearly realizes that the remote, private world of their grandparents is a thing of the past in a new media age.
这部纪录片还介绍了戴安娜的另一个重要影响：蒂娜·布朗(Tina Brown)在她2007年的传记《戴安娜编年史》[The Diana Chronicles]中所写的“明白包容姿态的力量”。新一代王室成员显然意识到，在新媒体时代，他们的祖父母所处的那个遥远、私密的世界已经过去了。
It is uncanny, Mr. Gething said, to see how much like their mother they are when meeting people. “There is an informality, a personal touch, a sense of humor,” he said. “It would be difficult to imagine in a pre-Diana age.”
格辛说，发现他们在与人相处时多么像他们的母亲这一点令人感到不可思议。“有一种轻松的氛围、一种个人色彩和一种幽默感，”他说。“这在前戴安娜时代是难以想像的。”