ONE of the most popular places for backcountry skiing in North America is Teton Pass in Wyoming, high above the adventure playground of Jackson Hole.
北美洲山地滑雪最著名的胜地之一就是怀俄明州的提顿通道(Teton Pass)，它俯瞰着冒险的乐园杰克逊山坳(Jackson Hole)。
This winter, as skiers and snowboarders unload gear for a day of sweat and powder-skiing, the researcher Kimberly Heinemeyer has been moving among them with a clipboard. Dr. Heinemeyer, a senior scientist with the research group Round River Conservation Studies, explains that she’s studying the effect of recreation on wolverines. She asks skiers if they will wear a small orange GPS armband for the day that tracks their movement. Most people gladly agree.
这个冬天，每当滑雪爱好者终结了挥洒汗水和疾驰雪中的一天，卸下装备之时，研究人员金伯利·海因梅耶(Kimberly Heinemeyer)就会拿着一个写字夹板，在人群中穿梭。海因梅耶是弯河保育研究机构(Round River Conservation Studies)的高级科学家。她解释道，自己正在研究度假活动对狼獾的影响。她询问滑雪者，能否在身上佩戴一个小小的橙色GPS臂带，记录他们在一天时间里的活动。多数人会欣然同意。
Wolverines, famously tough and elusive animals also known as “mountain devils,” are in trouble in the region. Roughly 300 are thought to remain in the northern Rockies and Pacific Northwest. Climate change is eroding the late-spring snowpack that the animals depend on to survive. Even so, in August, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service withdrew its proposal to list the animal as a “threatened” species under the Endangered Species Act. Environmental groups are suing.
狼獾这种被称为“山地恶魔”的动物是众所周知地凶悍且行踪诡秘，然而它们现在却在这个区域遇到了麻烦。据信在落基山(Rockies)北部和太平洋西北部(Pacific Northwest)地区，现存的狼獾只有300只了。气候变化侵蚀了动物们赖以生存的晚春的厚实积雪。尽管如此，美国鱼类和野生动物管理局(United States Fish and Wildlife Service)还是在去年8月，放弃了将狼獾列为《濒危物种保护法》(Endangered Species Act)定义的“濒危”物种。环保团体对此提起了诉讼。
Over the last five winters, scientists have been trapping and fitting GPS collars to wolverines in Idaho and now in Wyoming while also affixing them to snowmobilers and those backcountry skiers. Then they’ve tracked the movements. Preliminary findings show that wolverines move faster and more often on weekends when people are playing in their mountain habitat. That may mean trouble for these animals during the brutal winters of the high Rockies, where every calorie counts.
过去五年的冬天，科学家一直在诱捕狼獾，给它们戴上GPS项圈，先是在爱达荷州，现在是怀俄明州，同时还在雪地摩托和山地滑雪爱好者身上加装GPS装置。之后研究人员就会追踪其活动。初步的研究结果显示，周末时狼獾的活动更快也更频繁，而这些时候人们通常在它们的山间栖息地玩闹。这在落基山高海拔地带的严冬里，对于这些动物或许意味着麻烦，因为那时每个卡路里的热量都很重要。
When we think of injuring nature, it is easy to point an accusing finger at mining companies and their strip mines or timber barons and their clear-cuts. But could something as mellow as backcountry skiing or a Thoreauvian walk in the woods cause harm, too?
想到伤害大自然，很容易伸出手指谴责采矿企业和它们的露天矿，以及伐木大亨和他们砍光的山坡。但一些愉悦身心的活动是不是也会造成损害，比如山地滑雪，或者像梭罗(Thoreau)一样在林中漫步？
More and more studies over the last 15 years have found that when we visit the great outdoors, we have much more of an effect than we realize. Even seemingly low-impact activities like hiking, cross-country skiing and bird-watching often affect wildlife, from bighorn sheep to wolves, birds, amphibians and tiny invertebrates, and in subtle ways.
过去15年里，有越来越多的研究发现，每当我们进行户外旅行，都会产生出乎意料的大影响。即使是看似影响很小的活动，如徒步、越野滑雪、观鸟，也常常会以微妙的方式影响野生动物，诸如大角羊、狼群、鸟类、两栖动物，甚至还包括微小的无脊椎生物。
Impacts from outdoor recreation and tourism are the fourth-leading reason that species are listed by the federal government as threatened or endangered, behind threats from nonnative species, urban growth and agriculture.
户外休闲活动和旅游业的影响，是物种被联邦政府列为受威胁或濒危物种的第四大原因，前三大原因是外来物种、城市发展和农业生产。
Piping plovers and loggerhead turtles have been killed, and their nests disrupted, by beach traffic at Cape Hatteras National Seashore in North Carolina, for instance. Vernal pool fairy shrimp are threatened by humans walking through seasonal wetlands in California and Oregon. The major threat to manatees in Florida is being struck by recreational boats. And the list goes on.
例如，北卡罗来纳州哈特拉斯角国家海滩(Cape Hatteras National Seashore)上的人流，就导致笛鸻和蠵龟死亡，也破坏了它们的巢穴。人类在加利福尼亚州和俄勒冈州的季节性湿地里的行走活动，对湖沼枝额虫造成了威胁。佛罗里达州海牛受到的主要威胁是被游玩的小艇撞到。实际受到冲击的物种还有更多。
You’d be surprised by the ripples left by a day-hiker’s ramble through the woods. In 2008 Sarah Reed, an associate conservation scientist at the Wildlife Conservation Society, and her colleagues found fivefold declines in detections of bobcats, coyotes and other midsize carnivores in protected areas in California that allowed quiet recreation activities like hiking, compared with protected areas that prohibited those activities.
徒步者在林中漫步时所产生的间接影响就足以让你感到惊讶。2008年，国际野生生物保护学会(Wildlife Conservation Society)的研究员莎拉·里德(Sarah Reed)和她的同事们发现，在加州允许安静休闲活动（如徒步）的保护区里，发现红猫、郊狼，以及其他中型食肉动物的次数，只有禁止此类活动的保护区中的五分之一。
“That is the kind of difference that you don’t see often in ecological studies,” Dr. Reed said. Dogs, a frequent villain, weren’t the issue for these carnivores; people were, according to her research.
“这在生态学研究中，可不是常见的差距，”里德说。她的研究显示，时常作恶的狗对于这些食肉动物来说并不是问题，人才是。
Birds get ruffled, too. Researchers who studied trails around Boulder, Colo., found that populations of several species of songbirds, including pygmy nuthatches and Western meadowlarks, were lowest near trails. “There’s something about the presence of humans and their pets when they go on hikes that causes a bit of a ‘death zone’ of 100 meters on either side of a trail,” said Prof. Rick Knight of Colorado State University. Running, canoeing, cycling and similar activities negatively affected birds in nearly 90 percent of 69 studies that researchers reviewed in 2011. Reductions were seen in the number of nests built, eggs laid and chicks hatched or fledged.
鸟类也受到了侵扰。在科罗拉多州博尔德(Boulder)研究小道的科学家发现，几种鸣禽的种群，包括侏儒五子雀和西草地鹨，其数量在紧邻人类足迹的区域是最低的。“人类和宠物的踪迹会产生影响，徒步旅行时，小道两侧的100米有点像是‘死亡区’，”科罗拉多州立大学(Colorado State University)教授里克·奈特(Rick Knight)说。在2011年查阅的69项研究中，近90%的研究结果发现，跑步、独木舟、骑行，以及其他活动，会对鸟类产生类似的负面影响。鸟类筑巢、产蛋、孵雏、成熟的数字在观察中都有所下降。
In Connecticut, wood turtles, labeled a “species of special concern” in the state, vanished from one wildlife preserve over 10 years after the area was opened to activities like hiking, researchers found.
研究发现，在康涅狄格州，一个野生动物保护区对徒步等活动开放十多年后，该州列为“特别关注物种”的木雕水龟在那里绝迹了。
It’s tempting for the muscle-powered recreation crowd (of which I’m a proud member) to argue that we’re lighter on the ground than those who roar into nature astraddle their growling snowmobiles and churning all-terrain vehicles. Surely motorheads are to blame for any problems in the forest.
靠自己的体力去度假的人（我也是其中骄傲的一员）很容易认为，与那些骑着轰鸣的雪地摩托，或者吵杂的越野车呼啸着闯进大自然的人相比，我们对大地产生的负担更小。森林里发生的任何问题必须都要归咎于摩托党啊。
The uncomfortable fact is, we’re all complicit. In a not-yet-published review of 218 studies about recreation’s impacts on wildlife, researchers found more evidence of impacts by hikers, backcountry skiers and their like than by the gas-powered contingent.
但令人不安的事实是，我们全都是帮凶。一份尚未发表的文献综述中，综合了218项关于度假活动对野生动物的影响的研究。研究人员发现，徒步者、山地滑雪爱好者及其他游人对自然造成影响的证据，比关于汽油驱动车辆的要多。
Cross-country skiers on the Kenai Peninsula in Alaska, for instance, can be more disturbing to moose than noisy snowmobiles, one recent study found. Grant Harris, a biologist for the Fish and Wildlife Service and the main author of the study, explained that snowmobiles, while a noisy intrusion, announced their presence and then quickly departed. But cross-country skiers can sneak up on an animal without warning and then linger. Worse, animals “don’t know where the skiers are going to pop up next,” leaving them on edge.
例如，阿拉斯加基奈半岛(Kenai Peninsula)的越野滑雪爱好者，对驼鹿的打扰比吵闹的雪地摩托还大。鱼类和野生动物管理局的生物学家格兰特·哈里斯(Grant Harris)解释道，尽管雪地摩托的噪声会产生干扰，但是这样也能宣告它们的到来，并且很快就会离开。然而越野滑雪的人却可能不知不觉地来到动物身边，毫无预警，然后驻足良久。更糟的是，动物们“不知道滑雪者接下来会从哪里冒出来”，于是就十分紧张。
A century ago, nature had elbow room. Now, there’s a lot less of it, while recreational activities and nature tourism are growing in most parks, wilderness areas and other protected areas around the world.
一个世纪前，大自然还有一些自己的空间。但现在，空间却小了很多，因为休闲活动和自然旅游在世界各地的许多公园、荒野，及其他保护区域里，都呈增长态势。
The National Park Service has allowed marathons in parks, for instance, and the controversial push by mountain bikers to ride in federal wilderness areas is heating up again. In British Columbia, more than three dozen snowcat skiing and heli-skiing operations and backcountry lodges have opened in the last 20 years in the province’s wildlife-rich south.
举例来说，国家公园管理局(National Park Service)允许在国家公园里举办马拉松赛，山地自行车爱好者极力推动在联邦荒野区域进行骑行，尽管颇受争议但又一次积极活动了起来。加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省南部，有大量野生动物。过去20年里，那里创办了三四十家经营雪地摩托滑雪、直升机空降滑雪，以及山地住宿的企业。
Today, some kind of recreation is allowed in 99 percent of the protected natural areas in North America.
今天，北美各地的自然保护区中，有99%允许某种形式的休闲活动。
Conflicts with nature are a result. Still, scientists insist they don’t want to lock people out of nature. Spending time on a mountainside, or hip-deep in a trout stream, is tonic for brain and body. Research bears this out. And people who recreate outdoors are among nature’s most ardent constituents. Without them, “our landscapes would erode even faster than they are now,” said Dr. Heinemeyer, the wolverine researcher.
其结果就是与自然产生冲突。不过，科学家坚持称，他们不希望把人们挡在大自然之外。在山脚下度过闲暇时光，在河水里追逐游鱼，对于身心都是舒爽的体验。这些也都得到了研究的证实。在户外休闲放松的人，也是对大自然最热忱的一群。如果没有他们，“自然风景受到侵蚀的速度，甚至会比现在更快，”研究狼獾的专家海因梅耶说。
The challenge is to find a nuanced balance between enjoying nature and protecting it, recognizing that recreation does not necessarily complement conservation or preservation.
我们面前的挑战是，在享受自然和保护自然之间，找到微妙的平衡，并承认休闲度假与保护或保育并不一定是互补的。
Last spring, officials in Banff National Park in Canada closed a section of the Bow Valley Parkway, one of the best places in the park to see wildlife at night. Closing the road allowed wolves, grizzly bears and other wildlife more chances to move along the pinched valley bottom during springtime, a critical period when they have young to feed.
去年春天，加拿大班夫国家公园(Banff National Park)关闭了博谷公路的一段，这是公园里最适合在夜间观看野生动物的地点之一。关闭公路之后，狼、灰熊和其他野生动物，春天就有更多机会在山谷底部狭长的地带游荡，这是它们需要照料幼崽的关键时期。
Such restrictions aren’t new in the United States or Canada, but we should be prepared to accept more of them. We might also consider allowing more recreation in some parks and natural areas but less in others to achieve conservation goals across a broader landscape.
这种限制在美国或加拿大并不是新举措，但我们应该做好准备，迎接更多类似的措施。我们可能也需要考虑在一些国家公园和自然保护区里允许更多休闲活动，在另一些区域则允许较少休闲活动，以此在更广泛的空间内达到保育目标。
And in the case of future parks and protected areas, we need to carefully consider the goals for such places and how recreation fits in or doesn’t, because once it is allowed, it is tough to restrict. “Whether or not to allow public access is probably the most important decision that gets made,” Dr. Reed said.
对于未来的国家公园和保护区，我们需要认真考虑这种区域的目标，哪些休闲活动适合这里，哪些不适合。因为一旦允许以后，再约束就更困难了。里德说，“是不是允许公众进入，或许是需要做出的最重要的决定。”