HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam — Dinh Thien Thien’s barbecue business bloomed just as Vietnam’s property market wilted. It was not a coincidence.
越南胡志明市——在越南房地产市场不景气的时期，丁田田（Dinh Thien Thien，音译）的烧烤生意却很兴旺。这可不是巧合。
In 2010, Mr. Thien said he rented an empty lot downtown here, where construction had largely stopped, and installed a grill. He added some homemade wooden furniture intended to conjure the image of a saloon — a motif inspired by his love of American westerns. Word of his movable feasts began to spread on Facebook, and within months he was renting 15 lots for the equivalent of $1,000 to $5,000 a month.
丁田田说，2010年时，他在胡志明市的市中心租了一块基本已经停止施工的工地，安装了烧烤架，并摆放了一些自制的木家具，希望营造出一种酒馆的氛围——因为他很喜欢美国西部片。他的移动餐馆在Facebook上出了名，数月之内，他以每月1000美元（约合人民币6092元）到5000美元不等的价格租下了15块空地。
But as construction picks up again, Mr. Thien, 32, is down to five locations. Some of his former grill sites are dotted with cranes or cement mixers, and he predicts that in three years he will be forced to pursue an entirely new line of work.
但是，随着房地产施工率的回升，32岁的丁田田现在的营业点已经缩减到了五个。起重机或者水泥搅拌车，出现在了他之前的一些营业场所。他预计在三年之内，自己就不得不另寻新营生了。
Vietnam’s beleaguered property market is bottoming out just as macroeconomic indicators stabilize and the ruling Communist Party makes new pledges to reform a struggling and corruption-riddled banking sector, say developers and businessmen here, the country’s commercial capital. And if Vietnam signs onto the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a proposed trade agreement that involves a dozen countries, including the United States, it may bolster the Vietnamese economy and speed a real estate recovery.
越南商业首都胡志明市的开发商和商人说，随着越南宏观经济指标企稳，执政的共产党做出新的承诺，要对苦苦挣扎、腐败丛生的银行业进行改革，该国陷入困境的房地产市场正在触底反弹。而且，如果越南签订了《跨太平洋伙伴关系协议》（Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement，简称TPP），可能会对越南经济发展有促进作用，加快其房地产业的复苏。TPP是一个拟议中的贸易协议，涉及包括美国在内的十几个国家。
Yet although lending rates have fallen to 12.8 percent, from 20.3 percent in 2011, no one in Vietnam knows whether the market can rebound to the peaks it hit before 2008, much less whether the government’s statistics or commitments to banking reform are reliable. For the moment, the mid- to high-end apartment markets remain oversupplied in this city and in the capital, Hanoi.
然而，尽管越南把贷款利率从2011年的20.3％降到了12.8％，仍然没有人知道市场能否反弹到2008年之前的高点，政府提供的统计数据或者改革银行业的承诺是否可靠就更是说不好了。目前，在胡志明市以及越南首都河内，中高端公寓市场仍然供过于求。
“It’s going to be another year before things get more clear — it’s rather opaque at this point,” said Trinh Bao Quoc, chief executive at Son Kim Land Corporation, a local developer. “But if you talk to foreign investors, a lot of them who are here in Vietnam know that this is a good time to buy.”
“还需要一点的时间，事情才会变得明朗起来——目前还比较模糊，”房地产开发商山金地业(Son Kim Land)首席执行官郑宝国（Trinh Bao Quoc)表示。“但是，如果你跟外国投资者交流过，你会发现，很多已经在越南的外国人都认为，现在是买入的好时机。”
In this city, asking rates for office rentals, now at about $20 to $30 per square meter, or about 10 square feet, began to rise in late 2012 for the first time since 2007, according to the Los Angeles-based real estate company CBRE. And in recent months, average selling prices for low-end residential properties in Hanoi have held steady around $800 per square meter after falling precipitously for two years.
总部位于洛杉矶的房地产公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)的资料显示，在2012年底时，胡志明市写字楼的租金出现了自2007年以来的第一次上涨，目前的挂牌价约为每平方米20至30美元。而且在最近几个月，河内低端住宅的平均售价在急剧下跌了两年之后，稳定在了每平方米800美元左右。
Some foreign investors have bought real estate here this year, in what brokers suggest is a sign of rising liquidity and investor confidence. And a few major construction projects are in the pipeline, including a tower that will include Vietnam’s first Ritz-Carlton.
一些外国投资者今年在越南购买了不动产，房屋经纪人认为，这是流动性和投资者信心增加的标志。一些重大建设项目也正在筹建中，其中包括将会有越南首家丽思卡尔顿酒店(Ritz-Carlton)入驻的一座大厦。
And in July, Vingroup, a real estate developer in Vietnam, opened the country’s largest shopping mall, which has a gross floor area of more than 200,000 square meters, or 2.1 million square feet. A company spokesman said 53 percent of the 4,518 units at a new apartment complex nearby had already been sold, and 29 percent of them were leased for 50 years.
今年7月，越南最大的购物商场开张，它属于越南房地产开发商Vingroup，楼面面积超过20万平方米。该公司发言人称，在商场附近，一座拥有4518套公寓的新大楼出售率已达53％，还有29％的公寓签订了50年的租约。
“We believe the real estate market is recovering well now and is expecting a positive turnaround by the end of this year or early next year,” said Le Thi Thu Thuy, chief executive of Vingroup.
“我们相信，房地产市场目前的复苏形式势头良好，预计在今年年底或明年年初，将会出现积极的转机。”Vingroup的首席执行官黎氏秋水(Le Thi Thu Thuy)说。
But Vietnam’s economy has underperformed relative to predictions that accompanied its 2007 entry to the World Trade Organization, and its current annual growth rate of about 5.3 percent is the slowest in more than a decade. A central obstacle to economic recovery is that local banks are saddled with bad debts linked to speculative property investments.
但越南的经济增长落后于它2007年加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)时的预期，目前的年增长率大约为5.3％，是十多年以来最慢的。经济复苏的一个主要障碍在于，越南的地方银行背负着跟投机性房地产投资有关的坏账。
Credit has tightened in the years since the market began to sour in 2008, and in July the government created an asset management firm tasked with buying bad debts in the banking sector. In September, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung also pledged to raise the cap on foreign ownership in local banks to 49 percent from 30 percent.
2008年出现市场低迷后，越南实施了数年的信贷紧缩政策，今年7月，政府成立了一个资产管理公司，负责购买银行部门的坏账。而且今年9月，越南总理阮晋勇(Nguyen Tan Dung)承诺，要把越南地方银行的外资持股上限从30％提高到49％。
But analysts say many of the bad debts are still linked to real estate.
但分析师说，很多坏账仍然跟房地产有关。
“There are early indicators that the market is beginning to move,” said Stephen Wyatt, the Vietnam country director at Jones Lang LaSalle. “It doesn’t take away the fact that the banking sector still has to work itself out.”
“有一些早期指标表明，市场开始变得活跃，”仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)在越南的负责人斯蒂芬·瓦耶特(Stephen Wyatt)说。“但这不能抵消问题，银行业仍然要努力走出困境。”
Vietnamese lawmakers have debated draft laws aimed at allowing foreigners to buy more than one apartment unit, secure apartment leasehold rights longer than the current limit of 50 years and buy land, David Lim, a Ho Chi Minh City lawyer who is advising the government on land reform, said last month.
上个月，为政府提供土地改革建议的胡志明市律师大卫·林(David Lim)说，越南国会已经对一些法律草案进行了辩论，包括允许外国人购买多套住房，购买土地，以及将他们的公寓租赁期限延长，不限制在50年内。
Mr. Lim said the draft laws were codifying years of piecemeal reforms and clearing up legal gray areas. They are likely to help the country compete with its Southeast Asian neighbors for foreign investment, he added.
大卫·林说，这些法律草案正在把数年来零散的改革措施制定成法规，并且清理法律的灰色地带。他说这样应该会有助于越南跟其东南亚邻国争夺外国投资。
And some local developers are changing their habit of building high-rise apartment towers with only wealthy consumers in mind, according to real estate brokers. Mr. Wyatt of Jones Lang LaSalle said low-end buyers dominated residential sales in this city, and a typical case is a 50- to 70-square-meter, or 540- to 750-square-foot, apartment that sells for the equivalent of about $30,000.
房地产经纪人表示，一些本地开发商正在改变仅仅针对富裕买主修建高层公寓大楼的习惯。仲量联行的瓦耶特说，在胡志明市住宅销售市场上占主导的是低端购房者，交易的公寓一般面积为50到70平方米，售价约3万美元。
Don Lam, chief executive of the fund manager VinaCapital, said that many middle-class Vietnamese couples were more interested in townhouses than high-rise apartments, and that his company was focusing on a potential new growth area: American-style gated communities on the city’s outer fringes, with three-bedroom units priced at the equivalent of about $200,000.
基金管理公司VinaCapital的首席执行官林·唐(Lam Don)说，很多中产阶级越南夫妇更感兴趣的是联排别墅而非高层公寓，他的公司把业务重心放在了一个新的潜在增长点上：在城市的外缘地带修建美国式的封闭小区，那里的一套三室住宅售价在20万美元左右。
Mr. Lam added that although banking and political reform was sorely needed in Vietnam, the property market would rebound with or without the government’s help. “Buyers and sellers are not waiting,” he said in a 17th-floor office with panoramic views of the city’s skyline. “Transactions are happening.”
林·唐还表示，虽然越南急需进行金融和政治改革，但无论有没有政府的帮助，楼市都会反弹。“买家和卖家没有观望等待，”他在可以欣赏到胡志明市全景的17楼办公室里说，“交易正在多起来。”