On a recent sunny afternoon, a half-dozen grinding and spinning cement trucks helped lay the foundation for what many real estate developers see as the most promising housing opportunity in postrecession America: apartment living.
不久前，一个阳光灿烂的下午，六台水泥车正研磨搅拌，为一处开发项目奠基。该项目对许多地产开发商来说，是美国经济萧条过后最有前景的一个住宅开发机会：酒店式公寓。
Here in suburban Vienna, about 16 miles west of downtown Washington, Joshua Solomon’s DSF Group is remaking a congested but nondescript intersection into a haven for young adults of the millennial generation. Like many other developers who survived the housing bust, he now expects a coming wave of renters who intend to stay that way for a while to help lead the industry to a brighter future.
在维也纳市(Vienna)郊区，也即华盛顿闹市区以西大约16英里（约合26公里）的地方，乔舒亚·所罗门(Joshua Solomon)的DSF集团即将把一个拥挤不堪又没什么特点的十字路口，改建为“千禧一代”年轻人的容身之处。正如其他许多从房地产危机中幸存下来的开发商一样，他现在期待着一波想过一段时间租房生活的住户，以把该产业带向一片更光明的未来。
“That generation of folks has seen people really get hurt by homeownership,” said Mr. Solomon, president of the company, which is based in Waltham, Mass. “The petal has really fallen off the rose as it pertains to homeownership. People don’t want to be tied down to a mortgage they can’t get out of quickly.”
“他们那一代人，曾见识过人们为业主的身份所伤，”这家公司的总裁所罗门说，该公司成立于马萨诸塞州的沃尔瑟姆市(Waltham)，“业主身份这朵玫瑰花的花瓣，真的已经在渐渐凋零了。人们不想被他们无法迅速摆脱的抵押贷款所束缚。”
That is true of Cabell Dickinson, 30, who had rented an apartment in Arlington, Va., for eight years when she and her boyfriend decided in May to get more serious about their relationship. Instead of marrying and buying a home, however, they followed friends to Mr. Solomon’s complex, known as Halstead Square, moving into a $2,000-a-month apartment.
今年30岁的卡贝尔·迪金森(Cabell Dickinson)就是这样，她已经在弗吉尼亚州阿林顿市(Arlington, Va.)的一套公寓中租住了八年。今年五月，她与男友决定把俩人的关系稳定下来。但他们没有选择结婚和买房，而是跟着朋友们去了所罗门开发的那个名为霍尔斯特德广场(Halstead Square)的小区，搬进一套月租2000美元（约合人民币12225元）的公寓里。
They often watch football in the lounge and have friends over for barbecues around the rooftop grill. “I can pretty much do my whole life in the building,” Ms. Dickinson said.
他们常在大厅里看球，还邀朋友们来在天台上烧烤。“我真的可以在这栋楼里住上一辈子。”迪金森说。
The developer’s bright red and yellow rental high rises — three already filled with young tenants — are a modern mix of glass, metal and fashionable ipe wood. The complex has fire pits and waterfalls, and each unit has a built-in iPod docking station hard-wired to speakers that pipe music throughout the apartment and link to TVs. When a fourth, 200-unit building is finished next year, it will have a residents-only bowling alley.
该地产商开发的那几栋鲜艳的红黄色租赁大楼——有三栋已经住满了年轻的租户——是混用玻璃、金属与时下流行的重蚁木建造的现代建筑。该小区里既有熔岩坑，又有大瀑布，而且每个单元都有一个内置的iPod基座，可通过接线连至音箱，把音乐传遍整个公寓，还可以连上电视。待第四栋含有200个单元的大楼于明年落成后，这里还会有一座仅对住户开放的保龄球馆。
Since 2008, the year Lehman Brothers collapsed and home prices dropped precipitously, there has been a steady increase in the number of people ages 18 to 34 renting instead of buying homes. About 875,000 more households are now made up of young adult renters than would have existed if the 2008-era trend had held steady, according to an analysis of census data by Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia, a real estate marketing website.
自2008年雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产、房价骤降以来，年龄在18至34岁之间、选择租房而不买房的人，数量一直在稳步增长。现在，大约有87.5万户家庭由年轻的成年租客组成，比2008年以来经济形势稳定的情况下可能存在的数量更多，据房地产搜索网站Trulia的首席经济学家杰德·柯尔克(Jed Kolko)的一份人口普查数据分析报告称。
Moreover, as the economy slowly improves and job growth picks up steam, the millions of 20- and 30-somethings who shared living quarters with friends or nestled in their parents’ basements to ride out the economic shock waves from the Great Recession are beginning to branch out on their own. But they are still largely shut out of the mortgage market.
此外，随着经济形势逐渐好转，就业的增长速度有所提升，数百万与朋友们合住，或窝在父母家地下室里、经受住了大萧条经济震荡的二、三十岁的年轻人，都开始自力更生了。但他们大部分还是被挡在了按揭贷款市场之外。
“They’re not going to go from living with their parents to buying a home,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, speaking at a housing conference in Washington. “They’re going to rent an apartment.”
“他们离开了父母，但不会买房，”穆迪分析公司(Moody’s Analytics)的首席经济学家马克·赞迪(Mark Zandi)说，这是他在华盛顿的一次住房大会上的发言，“他们会去租住一套公寓。”
Developers and builders are responding to a rising demand not just from young adults but also from the larger population of Americans who do not have the means or the desire to buy a house.
开发商与建筑商们正在应对一项日益增加的需求，不仅来自年轻的已成年人，也来自大部分无法或不想买房的美国人。
“A lot of people 10 to 15 years ago who were able or willing to get a mortgage, now they can’t,” said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist for Pantheon Macroeconomics. “They’re caught in an awful Catch-22 trying to get a down payment” now that they’re spending on rent.
“在10至15年前，有许多人都有能力或意愿去办理按揭；而现在，他们做不到了，”潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)的首席经济学家伊恩·薛普森(Ian Shepherdson)说。“他们要交首付款的时候会左右为难”，因为同时还得交房租。
While construction of single-family homes is only halfway back to its prerecession levels, construction of multifamily units — which include both condos and rentals — is at its highest level in 25 years. Apartment construction is exceeding its prerecession peaks in some markets, including Austin, Tex.; the Washington metropolitan area; and San Jose, Calif., according to a recent report from the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard.
尽管独栋住宅的开发工程，只恢复到了衰退之前一半的水平，同时包含有共管公寓与租赁公寓的多户型单元楼的开发，却已达到25年来的最高水平。据哈佛大学住房研究联合中心(Joint Center for Housing Studies)最近公布的一份报告，在某些地方的房地产市场中，公寓开发项目正在超越经济衰退前的峰值，其中包括德克萨斯州的奥斯汀市(Austin)、华盛顿的都市区，以及加利福尼亚州的圣何塞市(San Jose)等等。
Mr. Zandi said the nation needed even more new rental units, especially affordable ones. Vacancy rates for rentals are as low as they have been in more than two decades, and the price of renting, in turn, is climbing.
赞迪说，美国还需要新建更多的租赁公寓，尤其是一些保障房性质的单元。租赁房屋的空置率与二十多年前一样低，而租赁价格反而正在攀升。
“Our problem in the next three to five years isn’t a surfeit of multifamily housing but a shortage,” Mr. Zandi said.
“在未来的三到五年中，我们的问题不是多户共住型的住房供过于求，而是短缺。”赞迪说。
In California, SCM Construction Management Services built single-family homes for 30 years, but after the recession it began building rental complexes in the state’s Central Valley region, which was hit hard with foreclosures, as well as the San Francisco Bay Area, which never really stopped growing.
在加州，SCM施工管理服务公司建造独栋住宅的时间已有30年了，但在经济衰退后，该公司开始在该州曾遭受重创而失去抵押赎回权的中央山谷(Central Valley)地带，以及从未真正停止增长的旧金山湾区(San Francisco Bay Area)，修建租赁式公寓住宅区。
Renters abound in both regions, said Steve Mothersell Sr., president of SCM. Young, educated technology workers with good salaries want to live in San Francisco, where home prices are out of reach for all but dot-com millionaires. “And out here in the Central Valley, we’re seeing families come back together as kids are moving out after living with their parents,” he said.
SCM公司的总裁史蒂夫·马瑟赛尔(Steve Mothersell)说，这两个区域的租户都是一些受过良好教育的高薪技术工作者，他们都想住在旧金山，但那里的房价对所有人来说，都是难以企及的，除非是那些互联网公司的百万富翁。“于是，我们看见有些家庭陆续回到了中央山谷地带，因为他们的孩子已经搬出去不再与父母同住了。”他说。
Developers are zeroing in on the generation of people in their 20s and early 30s, who now outnumber baby boomers. Many new amenity-laden complexes are updated versions of the 1990s soap opera “Melrose Place,” where socializing takes place at bocce courts and outdoor movie theaters next to swimming pools.
开发商们正在瞄准年龄介于20至30多岁的这一代人。现在，这群人的数量比“婴儿潮”一代更多了。许多设施齐全的新建住宅区，都像是20世纪90年代的肥皂剧《飞跃情海》(Melrose Place)的升级版。在该剧中，人们的社交活动都是在室外地滚球场与游泳池边的露天电影院里进行的。
Developers are particularly creative in finding sites with cheaper land costs that give them the ability to offer more affordable near-luxury units. The Parkway Lofts in a scruffy neighborhood near a commuter train station in Bloomfield, N.J., opened in January and offers 17-foot ceilings, a roof deck and a movie screening room. “It’s not your typical suburban, four-story, wood-built apartment building,” said Eugene Diaz, principal at Prism Capital Partners, which developed the 361-unit building from an old multistory factory.
开发商们都别出心裁地找到了一些土地成本较低的位置，可以让他们有能力在豪华住宅区附近提供更多的保障性住房。在新泽西州的布洛姆菲尔德市(Bloomfield)，一个通勤列车站附近有座不太整洁的社区，在那里建造起来的Parkway Lofts公寓楼将于一月份开盘。该楼盘中的公寓有17英尺（约5米）高的天花板，楼内还有一个屋顶平台和一间电影放映室。“它不是你们那种典型的四层楼高、木质结构的郊区公寓楼，”Prism Capital Partners地产公司的主管尤金·迪亚兹(Eugene Diaz)说，该公司开发了这栋有361个单元的大楼，其原身是家多楼层的旧工厂。
Mr. Solomon‘s company, the DSF Group, has new apartment buildings on the outskirts of New York as well as a 445-unit complex in Danvers, Mass., near Boston. All locations were selected because of their proximity to public transit. His modern apartment buildings in Vienna are a short walk to the Washington Metro line.
所罗门的公司DSF Group在纽约市外有几栋新建的公寓楼，还在马萨诸塞州的丹佛斯市(Danvers)、接近波士顿的地方，有一栋带445个单元的住宅小区。所有位置的选择依据都是要靠近公共交通。从他在维也纳市的那几栋现代公寓楼只需走几步路，就可到华盛顿地铁线(the Washington Metro line)。
The Halstead Square apartments in Vienna, which rent for as much as $3,000 a month, include granite countertops and access to a smartphone app that allows residents to check on deliveries and request repairs. Focus groups of young people told the developer they want an almost hotel-like experience.
维也纳市内的几套霍尔斯泰德广场公寓，月租高达3000美元（约合人民币18338元），内有花岗岩台面，以及配套的手机app软件，允许住户查快递和报修。通过关注年轻人群体，该开发商得知，他们想要一种近乎酒店的体验。
“What we’ve seen in this demographic is they are really looking for a Four Seasons level of service but without ever looking up from their iPhone,” Mr. Solomon said.
“我们从这份人口统计数据中看到的是，他们真的在寻找一种甚至不必从手机里检索也能获得的、类似四季酒店水平的服务。”所罗门说。
The buildings’ lobbies are scented with a white tea and thyme fragrance. Residents can play a round of virtual golf in the 24-hour gym or go to Zumba and Brazilian Butt Lift classes on the basketball court. They can watch movies on plush couches arranged in stadium seating or let their dogs roam in a small dog park. The complex hosts wine tastings and cooking classes in common areas.
这几栋楼的大堂里，散发着白茶与百里香的味道。居民们可以在那座24小时开放的体育馆中打一局虚拟高尔夫球，也可以去篮球场参加尊巴舞(Zumba)或巴西提臀舞的训练班。他们可以在露天运动场上安放的毛绒沙发中看电影，而让他们的狗在一座宠物狗小公园里坐着或游荡。该小区还常常在公共区域开办品酒与厨艺课程。
“Everyone gets together around the pool and plans for the rest of the night,” said Gabriela Gomez, 36, who pays about $1,400 for her studio apartment.
“每个人都聚在泳池周围，计划着晚上怎么打发剩余时间，”今年36岁的加布里埃拉·戈麦斯(Gabriela Gomez)说，她每月为自己那套单间公寓支付1400美元（约合人民币8558元）的租金。