Property Tax Envy
房产税上的嫉妒心
Q. Can you tell me why the property taxes on condominiums excessively exceed those on brownstones even though the latter have much greater square footage? I think the disparity is criminal and heartlessly condoned by the city and state.
问：你能否告诉我，为什么明明褐石住宅(brownstones)的面积要大很多，但共管公寓(condominiums)要缴纳的房产税还是比褐石住宅的要高出许多呢？我觉得这种差距是没有道理的，市政府和州政府无情地纵容了它的存在。
Fort Greene, Brooklyn
布鲁克林，格林堡(Fort Greene)
A. Zillow envy is a dangerous thing. I was just browsing the real estate website and found a listing for a $4.495 million four-bedroom condo in the East 70s. The 2013 tax bill was $45,904. Then I glanced at a stunning five-story townhouse, also in the East 70s. It is on the market for $13.5 million. The house is listed for more than three times as much as the condo and has twice the square footage, but its 2013 property taxes, at $59,407, were not much higher. So what gives?
答：源自Zillow的嫉妒是件危险的事。我最近浏览了一下这个房地产网站，找到一套四居室共管公寓的挂牌信息，这套房子449.5万美元（约合人民币2755万元），位于东70街一带。2013年的税费是45904美元（约合人民币281346元）。接着，我看了一套惊人的五层联排住宅，也是在东70街一带，挂牌价是1350万美元（约合人民币8247万元）。这套房子的挂牌价比共管公寓高出三倍以上，而且面积也相当于后者的两倍，但是其2013年的房产税是59407美元（约合人民币364106元），并没有比后者高出很多。这是什么道理呢？
“You couldn’t come up with a sillier system on a bet,” said Glenn Borin, a manager of the Tax Certiorari Group at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan.
“没有比这更愚蠢的制度了。”Stroock & Stroock & Lavan律师事务所税务复审组(Tax Certiorari Group)的负责人格伦·博林(Glenn Borin)说。
In short, the city taxes townhouses differently from condos and co-ops. The system dates back to the early 1980s, when most property owners lived in either single-family homes or co-ops. Everyone else, for the most part, was a renter. Single-family homes, like brownstones, and many properties with no more than three units are assessed at 6 percent of their value. Apartments in larger multifamily buildings, however, are assessed at 45 percent, which partly explains the spread.
简而言之，市政府对于联排住宅的征税制度，与其涉及共管公寓和合作公寓(co-ops)的制度并不一样。该制度始于20世纪80年代初，那时候，大多数房产业主要么住在独户式住宅，要么住在合作公寓里。而其他人大多都是租房族。独户式住宅（和褐石住宅一样）以及许多单元数在三个以下的房产，得到的估值都是其真实价值的6%，但是多户式大楼盘内的公寓所得的估值却是45%，这部分就解释了二者的价差。
But before you stage a tax revolt, take comfort in knowing that the tax rate is 49 percent higher for single-family homes, Mr. Borin said, which theoretically helps even the score. And then there is the co-op/condo property tax abatement, a measure that was intended to be a temporary fix for some of this disparity, but was recently renewed. Many townhouses benefit from protections, too, like an assessment cap that limits tax increases. “Over all, the finance department’s methodology is very conservative, with a great deal of disparity from one property to another and not a lot of transparency,” Mr. Borin said.
不过，在你谋划抗税行动之前，先从一个事实当中寻找安慰吧：据博林说，独户式住宅的税率要高出49%，这在理论上有助于平衡价差；此外，合作公寓和共管公寓还享有房产税减免优惠——这是一项临时举措，意在消弭某些不平等，但是最近进行了修订。许多联排住宅也从这项保护中受益了，它就好比一个估值上限，可以制约税费的上升。“整体而言，财政部的方法非常保守，一处房产和另一处房产之间差别很大，透明度也不高。”博林说。
A 2011 report by the New York University Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy found that the tax system overwhelmingly favors owners of small properties, with the largest tax burden falling on renters living in large, multifamily buildings.
纽约大学富曼房地产及城市政策中心(Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy)2011年发布的一份报告显示，当前的税收体系完全是对小房产业主有利的，而居住在多户式大楼内的租客所承担的税负则最大。
The potential for baffling inequities is huge. In a model comparison Mr. Borin created of three Brooklyn properties, the owner of a 2,500-square-foot prewar townhouse could pay $3,831 a year in taxes, while the owner of a prewar condo virtually the same size could pay $13,650 a year. The owner of a 2,500-square-foot condo in new construction could owe a whopping $21,002. Go figure.
令人不解的不平等现象发生的可能性很大。在博林以布鲁克林的三处房产构造出的模型比较当中，一套2500平方英尺（约合232平方米）的战前联排住宅，每年的税费为3831美元（约合人民币23480元）；一套几乎同样大小的战前共管公寓每年的税费则有可能达到13650美元（约合人民币83661元）；而一套2500平方英尺的新建共管公寓，每年的税费更是有可能高达21002美元（约合人民币128721元）。想想看吧。
Tax Break on Billionaires’ Row
亿万富豪阶层的税收减免
Q. Could you explain the reasoning behind the policy that grants 20- to 30-year tax abatements for residents in luxury buildings like One57? I cannot understand why someone buying an apartment for upward of $40 million would end up paying substantially less in taxes than the average co-op owner pays. How does this abatement help foster the building of affordable housing in the city?
问：你能否解释一下，为什么One57这类豪华楼盘的住户按照政策，可以享受20到30年的税收减免？我不明白，为什么一个能花4000万美元（约合人民币2.5亿元）购买公寓的人，最终交的税却比一般的合作公寓业主要少很多。这种减税优惠对市政府修建保障性住宅有帮助吗？
Midtown East, Manhattan
曼哈顿，中城东区(Midtown East)
A. You are not the first person to wonder why someone paying $90 million for a penthouse would need a 94 percent property tax break, as is the case at One57, the Midtown skyscraper that has come to symbolize Manhattan’s new Gilded Age. For that answer, you would need to look to Albany. In 2013, the State Legislature carved out a provision in a housing bill granting One57 and four other luxury developments the tax break — with little explanation. These developments can now benefit from a city tax exemption, 421a, which was created in the 1970s to encourage redevelopment. In its current form, a Midtown development that does not include affordable housing units on-site would not be eligible for the tax benefit. But the Albany bill skirted that detail by allowing One57 and the four other developments to qualify for the tax break anyway. Instead, the developers can pay into a fund to build affordable housing elsewhere in the city, like in the Bronx.
答：不仅是你，许多人都在纳闷：为什么一个能花9000万美元（约合人民币5.5亿元）买下顶层公寓的人，会需要94%的房产税减免，在One57买房的人就是这个情况。中城区的摩天大楼One57已成为曼哈顿新镀金时代的象征。对于这个问题的答案，你得到奥尔巴尼（Albany，纽约州的首府——译注）去寻找。2013年，州议会在住房法案中引进了一项条款，为One57及其它四处豪华开发项目提供减税优惠——至于其中的原因，则几乎没有解释。这些开发项目现在可以享受402a免税条款。该条款旨在鼓励再开发活动，出台于20世纪70年代。按照现行的规定，如果中城区的开发项目没有在同一地块上包含保障性住宅单元，那它就没有资格享受减税优惠。但是奥尔巴尼的法案绕过了这一细节，允许One57及另四个开发项目无论是否满足此条件，都能享受减税待遇。开发商们可以向一个基金注资，以便在市内其它诸如布朗克斯区(Bronx)的地点，修建保障性住房。
“It’s amazing that they get away with this and people aren’t rising up with pitchforks,” said Michael McKee, a board member of the Metropolitan Council on Housing and co-author of a report critical of the Albany deal.
“他们做了这种事情都可以毫发无损，没有人举起耙子奋起抵制，真是不可思议，”大都会住宅委员会(Metropolitan Council on Housing)的委员会成员迈克尔·麦基(Michael McKee)说。麦基与人合写了一份批判奥尔巴尼政策的报告。
How much will the deal actually cost taxpayers? According to the Metropolitan Council’s report, which was co-authored by Jaron Benjamin, its executive director, the two One57 penthouses will cost the city $2.4 million in lost tax revenue over the next decade. And that does not account for the remaining units in the 90-story tower. The future owner of a $38.9 million three-bedroom would pay a mere $509 a month in taxes, according to StreetEasy.com.
这项政策究竟会让纳税人损失多少钱？根据大都会住宅委员会的报告，One57的两套顶层公寓将在接下来的十年里，让市政府损失240万美元（约合人民币1471万元）的税收；这还没算上这栋90层大楼里的其余单元。根据房地产网站StreetEasy.com的数据，一套价值3890万美元（约合人民币2.4亿元）的三居室未来的业主，每月仅需支付509美元（约合人民币3120元）的税费。
If this offers any consolation, the tax breaks are not permanent. “After a decade, the tax could easily be $150,000 to $200,000 per year,” said George Arzt, a spokesman for the Extell Development Company, the developer of One57. That figure, he said, is a “multiple of what co-ops are charged per apartment.”
这种减税优惠并不是永久的，不知道这样说能否令人心理平衡一些。“十年后，税费轻而易举地就能达到15至20万美元（约合人民币92至123万元）。”One57的开发商Extell Development Company的发言人乔治·亚兹(George Arzt)表示。他说，那个数字“比每套合作公寓所需缴纳的税费高出数倍。”
Forget the Poor Door, Who Pays for Affordable Housing?
别管关于“寒门”（poor door，在一些高端楼盘，市价住宅和保障性住宅的住户分别出入不同的楼门，后者走的楼门被称为“寒门”——译注）的争议了，修建保障性住宅的出资方是谁？
Q. In new condominium buildings where a portion of the units are set aside as affordable rentals, who manages the rental units and pays the fees to support maintenance and staffing of the building? With all this discussion about “poor doors” and low-income renters not having access to the same amenities as the market-rate condo-unit owners, I would like to know who subsidizes the costs of operating these rental apartments, covering any ongoing losses associated with running them. Is it the original sponsor, the market-rate condo unit owners, or some other entity?
问：在一些新建的共管公寓楼当中，有一定比例的单元被预留下来，作为保障性出租房。那么是谁在管理这些出租单元，并为楼盘维护和员工成本支付费用呢？基于现在广受热议的“寒门”现象，以及低收入租户被那些市价共管公寓业主所享用的物业设施拒之门外的情况，我想知道，是谁在补贴这些出租公寓的运营成本，及此过程中持续产生的损失呢。是开发商、市价共管公寓的业主，还是其他主体？
Midtown East, Manhattan
曼哈顿，中城东区
Mixed-income developments are not designed to lose money. Instead, a developer agrees to build affordable housing in exchange for lucrative incentives like tax breaks, subsidies or the chance to build a larger structure. These incentives help make the entire project — including the affordable units — financially viable.
答：面向混合收入人群的开发项目，并不是用来亏钱的。相反，开发商同意修建保障性住宅，是为了享受鼓励政策所带来的丰厚回报，比如减税、补贴，或是建造更大楼盘的机会。这些鼓励政策有助于使整个项目具有财务上的可行性，包括其中的保障性单元。
“The general principle behind the mixed-income projects is the developer is granted something of value,” said Barika Williams, the deputy director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development. “In exchange, the city requires a public good in return, in the way of affordable housing.”
“面向混合收入人群的项目，有一个总的原则，那就是开发商会得到有价值的回报，”社区与住宅开发协会(Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development)的副会长巴丽卡·威廉姆斯(Barika Williams)说，“作为交换，市政府会要求开发商以保障性住宅的形式，为公众谋福利。”
Most mixed-income buildings are entirely rentals. Whoever owns the property charges market-rate tenants whatever the market will bear and charges tenants in the affordable units a rent based on their income. Market-rate tenants do not pay a premium because some neighbors pay a fixed lower rent — they pay as much as their landlord can fetch.
大多数面向混合收入人群的楼盘，都是清一色的出租单元。不管房产的业主是谁，都会向市价单元的租户收取市价水平的租金；而对于保障性单元的租户，则根据其收入水平收取租金。市价房的租户不会因为一些支付较低固定租金的邻居，就需要付出一笔溢价——他们只会支付房东所能争取到的价格。