One consequence of the subprime mortgage crisis is a far more rigid home appraisal process. Borrowers can complain about lower than expected appraisals — which may mean they can’t borrow enough to meet an agreed-upon sale price, or can’t refinance — but lenders very rarely reconsider.
次贷危机的后果之一，就是房屋估价流程变得严格了许多。借款人往往会因为估价过低而抱怨连连——因为这样一来，他们就可能会借不到足够的钱，来支付已经协商好的房屋售价，也有可能面临无法再融资的风险——但是，贷款方却很少会因此重新估价。
Federally enacted rules have set up regulatory walls between loan originators and appraisers so as to shield them from pressures to inflate home values. Now many banks order appraisals through a third party, typically an appraisal management company, which acts as an intermediary.
联邦政府制定的法令已在申请借款者和估价师之间设立了监管高墙，以免后者在申请人施压之下高估房屋价值。目前，很多银行把房屋估价的工作包给了第三方，通常是担任着中介角色的房地产估价管理公司。
“In the past, you could communicate that you were unhappy with the appraisal,” said Patrick Galway, an appraiser and the manager of the Town & Country Real Estate Westhampton office. “Today, that kind of communication is severed.”
“过去，你要是对估价结果不满意，可以随时与估价师沟通，”房地产公司Town & Country Real Estate西安普敦(Westhampton)办事处的估价师兼经理帕特里克·戈尔韦(Patrick Galway)说，“如今，这样的沟通渠道被切断了。”
One option is available to borrowers: a rebuttal letter to the lender. If such a challenge is to garner any attention at all, it must lay out solid and objective evidence of where the appraiser went wrong. But without a decent knowledge of appraisal guidelines, that can be difficult to do.
对于借款者而言，还有一种方法可以一试：那就是给贷款方写一封反驳信。但是要想让这样的质疑确实引起人们注意，除非摆出扎实而客观的证据，证明估价师的判断哪里有误。但是如果对估价指标没有深入的了解，这一点是很难做到的。
“The most important thing to keep in mind is a challenge has to be based on facts,” said Robert Morin, the president of the Greystone Valuation Group, in Bedford, N.Y.
“你需要牢牢记住的最重要的一点就是，质疑必须以事实为依据，”纽约州贝德福德(Bedford)的一家房地产估价公司Greystone Valuation Group的总裁罗伯特·莫林(Robert Morin)说。
Appraisers determine a property’s value partly by researching the sales prices of nearby homes. These homes should be of similar size and style, and located roughly within one mile. The sales should have closed within the previous six months.
估价师在为一处房产估价时，通常会调查周边地区的房价，作为部分参考依据。这些参考房源必须具有类似的大小和装潢，且必须位于大约一英里（约合1.6公里）之内。成交时间不得早于此前六个月。
Borrowers who question an appraisal should obtain the appraiser’s report from their lender and review the comparable sales that were used. “If they believe they’re not good representations of the property,” Mr. Morin said, “then they should hook up with a local Realtor to get assistance with getting better sales.”
对估价结果存疑的借款者，必须从贷款方那里取得估价报告，查看报告当中采用的可比销售案例(comparable sales)。“如果他们觉得这些实例不具代表性，”莫林说，“那就得求助当地的房地产经纪人，找到一些成交价格更高的可比案例。”
That might mean sales that were pending at the time of the appraisal, but have since closed. If they support a higher value, they might make a difference.
这可能就是指在借款者待购的房屋被估价期间尚未售出、而估价过后刚好成交的那些房源。如果它们的成交价更高，借款者或许就有了翻盘的机会。
The borrower should also consider a host of factors to see if the “comps” are truly comparable, said Collin Lord, the owner of Absolute Value Management in Boston. Are they located on busier roads? Are the kitchens and baths more dated than those in the purchase property? (Variables like decks and fireplaces are unimportant.) And most important, are the living areas of similar size — that is, not more than 25 percent larger or smaller?
波士顿房产估价公司Absolute Value Management的所有人科林·洛德(Collin Lord)表示，要想判断可比案例是否真正具有可比性，借款者还必须考虑一系列因素，比如，它们是否位于更繁华的路段？厨房和浴室设施是否相对较新（至于露台、壁炉这类变量就不重要了）？最重要的是，居住面积的大小是否相似——也就是，两套房屋间的差别是否超出了25%？
In putting together the information for the lender, borrowers should always “maintain a level of professionalism, and not be accusatory or derogatory,” Mr. Lord said. “It’s important to be respectful of the procedure.”
将这些信息整理好、提交给贷款方时，借款者必须始终“保持一定的专业精神，而不应该表现出责难或贬损的情绪，”洛德说，“恪守规则、尊重流程是很重要的。”
In all likelihood, however, rebutting an appraisal will prove fruitless. Better to be prepared at the beginning of the process with a list of recent sales that are most comparable to the property to be appraised, Mr. Galway said. “I think you have your best shot and maybe your only shot before the appraiser shows up at the house,” he said.
然而，借款者对估价结果的反驳，十有八九会是徒劳的。戈尔韦的建议是，最好从一开始就做好准备，从最近成交的房源中找出与待估房产最具可比性的实例，列出一张清单。“必须在估价师来看房之前就做好准备，我认为这是你取得胜算的最好机会，也是唯一的机会。”他说。
In a market like this one where prices are rising, sales that are six months old may not reflect current values, said Heather Harrison, an owner of Platinum Drive Realty in Scarsdale, N.Y. That can be frustrating for buyers, but convincing banks that values have risen can be tough when they’re looking backward. Recently, she sold a condo listed for $1.1 million to a buyer who, after some initial hesitation, decided to use cash to make up the difference between the negotiated price (close to list) and the bank’s appraisal of $920,000.
希瑟·哈里森(Heather Harrison)是纽约州斯卡斯代尔(Scarsdale)的房地产公司Platinum Drive Realty的所有人，她说，在像这种价格一直在涨的市场当中，六个月前的成交价或许都不足以反映当前的价格水平。对于买家，这或许是件令人沮丧的事，但是银行总喜欢用过去的交易作参照，要想说服他们房产已经升值，是件很艰难的事。哈里森最近刚刚售出一套共管公寓(condo)，挂牌价是110万美元（约合人民币670万元）。买卖双方协商的价格与挂牌价接近，而银行的估价却是92万美元（约合人民币560.70万元）。买家起初颇犹豫了一番，后来决定以现金补足当中的差额。
Another possibility is to try another bank. Sometimes, Ms. Harrison said, a second appraisal does the trick.
还有一个办法，就是换家银行试试。哈里森说，有时候，二次估价往往能够带来柳暗花明。