HONG KONG — After almost two decades of nearly unceasing increases in real estate prices and construction across China, one of the world’s longest-running bull markets finally seems to be stalling, with broad consequences for China’s economy.
香港——将近20年来，中国的房地产价格和建筑规模几乎一直在不停增长。而现在，这个世界上持续时间最长的牛市似乎最终露出了停滞的迹象，给中国经济造成了广泛影响。
Housing starts plummeted 25 percent last month from a year ago, the Chinese government announced on Tuesday — a severe blow for a country in which residential real estate construction has come to account for one-ninth of all economic output.
中国政府周二宣布，上个月，新屋开工量与一年前相比下降了25%——这对中国来说是一个沉重的打击，因为住宅房地产建设已经占到了全部经济产出的九分之一。
Prices have begun falling for new apartments and old ones, and the volume of deals is drying up. The square footage of housing transactions slumped nearly 16 percent last month, as sellers were reluctant to accept the discounts that buyers increasingly demanded.
新旧住房的价格都已开始下跌，交易量也急剧减少。上个月，由于卖家不愿意接受购房者日益强烈的打折要求，房屋交易的建筑面积暴跌了将近16%。
China’s real estate market correction — some economists are even calling it the popping of a bubble — is partly the result of a deliberate decision by the country’s leaders in Beijing.
中国房地产市场的这一调整过程——有些经济学家甚至称其为泡沫的破裂——部分是因为北京的中国领导人有意做出的一项决定。
The Federal Reserve and other regulators in the United States did not try to pop the American housing bubble in the decade leading up to the market’s slump in 2008.
在2008年市场崩溃之前的10年里，美联储(Federal Reserve)和美国的其他监管者并未尝试去戳破美国的房产泡沫。
But the Chinese leadership has been increasingly concerned over the past several years that housing prices were rising to unaffordable levels and that the economy was becoming overly dependent on investment, and it has taken action.
然而，过去几年当中，中国领导层越来越担心房价会上升到人们无力承担的水平，担心经济过度依赖投资，于是便采取了行动。
The result has been a series of policies that includes punitive interest rates for mortgages on second homes, a ban on the purchase of third homes and, more recently, deliberate action by the central bank to keep short-term interest rates well above the rate of inflation. Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, reaffirmed tight credit policies on Saturday, saying that he did not think the economy was in sufficient trouble to justify monetary policy stimulus.
随之而来的是一系列政策，其中包括二套房贷款需要支付惩罚性利率、禁止购买第三套住房，在此之后，央行还刻意把短期利率保持在远高于通货膨胀率的水平。周六，中国央行中国人民银行行长周小川再次强调要采取严格的信贷政策，称他并不认为经济已经困难到了需要以货币政策进行刺激的程度。
In a country where real estate sales offices have become ubiquitous and tower cranes are jokingly described as the national bird, the question is how much further the real estate market will slow, and whether its troubles will spill into other sectors of the economy, notably the banking system.
房地产销售机构在中国随处可见，有人还开玩笑地把塔式起重机称为中国国鸟。在这种情况下，问题是房地产市场会持续放缓到何种程度，它的问题是否会影响到其他经济领域，尤其是银行体系。
In addition to delaying new projects, developers have sharply reduced the speed at which they complete existing projects, furloughing workers and shipping minimal steel to building sites. Economic data released on Tuesday also included a deceleration in industrial production, with growth in steel and cement output slowing to a crawl. Retail sales also grew more slowly than expected in April, with the furniture market stalling as fewer families moved into new homes.
除了推迟新项目以外，开发商还给工人放假，将运往工地的钢铁数量减至最少，由此大幅度减慢了现有项目的完工速度。周二发布的经济数据还显示了工业生产的减速，钢铁和水泥生产的增长速度都已变得极其缓慢。4月，零售销售额的增长也比预期速度低，由于迁入新居的家庭减少，家具市场也已陷入停滞。
Su Hua, a real estate broker in Shenzhen, had his highest commissions ever last year, as a speculative frenzy prompted families all over China to buy and sell apartments at a brisk pace. But he sat in a deserted office late last week with several silent phones on his desk.
深圳房地产经纪苏华（音译）在去年拿到了数额最高的佣金；当时，一阵投机热潮促使中国各地的家庭迅速买卖房屋。但上周晚些时候，他坐在冷清的办公室里，桌上的几部电话一直很安静。
His business has halved so far this year. More worrisome for him is that the drying-up of the market shows no sign of ending.
今年，他的业务量减少了一半。更令他担忧的是，这种市场萧条根本没有结束的迹象。
According to Centaline, one of China’s largest real estate brokerage firms, transactions fell by half in Beijing and Shanghai from a year ago over the May 1 holiday weekend. The weekend is traditionally one of the two biggest real estate buying times of the year, along with a weeklong national holiday at the start of October.
中国规模居前的房地产经纪公司中原地产(Centaline)表示，五一假期期间，北京和上海的交易量与一年前相比下降了一半。在过去，五一假期和七天的十一国庆节假期一直是一年中购房交易最火爆的两个时期。
“There is not much else I know how to do,” Mr. Su said. “Maybe I will consider selling insurance on the side, if business continues to slow.”
“我不知道还能怎么办，”苏华说。“如果生意继续不景气，或许我会考虑兼职卖保险。”
A handful of real estate restrictions are already being rescinded. State-controlled banks in Shenzhen, adjacent to Hong Kong, have in the past two weeks stopped charging the extra half percentage point to one percentage point above the regulated national benchmark rate for mortgages that they had been collecting in recent years.
政府已经取消了针对房地产的一些限制。在毗邻香港的深圳，国有银行近年来一直在规定的国家抵押贷款基准利率之外多收半个到一个百分点的费用，但在过去两周，它们已停止收取这项费用。
But some experts question whether wealthy families will want to jump back into the real estate market even if the most important restrictions, on the purchase of multiple apartments, are lifted. Nicole Wong, the head of property research at CLSA, a Hong Kong-based brokerage and investment firm, said that easing limits on overseas investment meant that more wealthy families were starting to send their money to Hong Kong and beyond instead of buying ever more apartments.
但一些专家怀疑，即便最重要的限制，即针对购买多套房屋的限制得到了解除，富裕家庭仍然不会重新回到房地产市场。香港经纪及投资公司里昂证券(CLSA)的房地产研究负责人王艳(Nicole Wong)称，放松对海外投资的限制意味着更多富裕家庭已经开始把他们的钱送到香港及其他地方，而不是用来购置更多房屋。
For real estate prices, “even if you relax all the restrictions, it won’t make much of a difference,” she said. “The one thing that is certain is the direction is set, and it is down — but it can be managed.”
对于房产价格而言，“即便你放松所有限制，也不会产生太大的差别，”她说。“唯一确定的是方向已定，而且是下行方向——但这是可控的。”
Chinese banking executives and economists say that a severe housing downturn would most likely cause a considerable increase in nonperforming loans at the country’s banks. But they make several arguments for why even a fairly steep slump in housing might not lead to bank failures or emergency bailouts of the sort seen in the United States when the American housing market slumped in 2008 and 2009.
中国银行业高管及经济学家表示，房市严重低迷很可能会导致银行不良贷款猛增。但他们提出了几个理由，希望以此说明，即便是房市的急剧下滑也不一定会导致银行倒闭，不一定会导致美国在2008年至2009年美国房市衰退时所采取的那种紧急救援政策。
The top reason cited is that even a fairly steep drop in the housing market would still leave the prices of most homes higher than the balance due on the mortgages on those homes. So almost nobody expects a big wave of foreclosures.
他们提出的首要理由是，即便房市急剧下滑，大部分住宅的价格仍高于房贷的结欠余额。因此，几乎没人认为中国会出现抵押品赎回权丧失的大潮。
The bulk of the homes in China were purchased more than five years ago, and real estate prices have about doubled in the past five years. Mortgage down payments range from 20 percent to 40 percent and are often higher, giving banks a larger cushion against losses.
中国大部分的住宅都是在超过五年以前购买的，而房价在过去五年中翻了一番。抵押贷款的首付从20%到40%不等，经常还会更高，银行由此获得了较大的止损保障。
Chinese families also have one of the world’s highest saving rates — nearly half of income for urban households, compared with almost zero for American households.
中国家庭的储蓄率位居世界前列，城市家庭的储蓄占到了收入的将近50%，而美国家庭的储蓄率几乎为零。
A bigger worry, and harder for banking regulators to measure, lies in the extent to which companies in other sectors have borrowed money from banks and trusts that they were supposed to invest in equipment purchases and other business activities, but have secretly speculated in real estate instead.
一个更令人担心的问题，也是银行监管机构更难估量的问题，在于其他领域的公司在多大程度上将来自银行和信托公司的贷款秘密投入了房地产业的投机买卖，而这些贷款本应用于设备购买和其他商业活动。
Extensive anecdotal evidence suggests that such speculative activity by companies has been very widespread. But the losses may only become visible if there is a deep, sustained drop in real estate prices.
大量传闻证据说明，此类企业投机活动非常普遍。不过，只有在房价大幅持续下滑的情况下，由此而来的损失才会显现。
Extensive government control over the banks and many businesses may allow Beijing to slow, but not necessarily reverse, a slide in the real estate market.
鉴于政府对银行及众多企业的广泛控制，北京或许有能力减缓房地产市场的下滑，但不一定有能力实现逆转。
“You can’t predict how the bursting of a Chinese real estate bubble plays out because it plays out in very small steps,” said Joel Rothstein, a partner specializing in Asian real estate in the Beijing office of the Paul Hastings law firm.
普衡律师事务所(Paul Hastings)北京代表处专攻亚洲房地产业的合伙人乔尔·罗思坦(Joel Rothstein)说，“无法预测中国的房地产泡沫会如何破裂，因为它破裂的步伐十分缓慢。”
Other sectors of the Chinese economy are still healthier than residential real estate, and could help sustain household incomes and national economic output as the property market weakens. Infrastructure spending by the government, particularly railroad construction, is moving into high gear. And the central bank has gradually pushed down the renminbi against the dollar in currency markets this year, helping the competitiveness of Chinese goods in foreign markets.
中国其他的经济领域依然比住宅房地产健康，可望在房地产市场疲弱的时候帮助维持家庭收入和全国经济产出。政府的基础设施支出增长迅猛，尤以铁路建设支出为甚。此外，央行今年逐渐下推人民币兑美元汇率，帮助提高了中国商品在外国市场的竞争力。
The office and commercial real estate sectors are tiny in China compared with residential real estate and have shown wide variation among cities. Good locations and high-quality buildings in major cities like Beijing and Shanghai still attract many potential buyers, but single floors in office buildings in many second- or third-tier cities have fallen out of favor, said James Shepherd, the executive director of greater China research at Cushman & Wakefield, the global commercial real estate brokerage firm.
与住宅房地产相比，中国的写字楼及商业房地产行业微不足道，具体情况因城市而有很大差异。全球商业地产代理商高纬环球( Cushman & Wakefield)研究部大中华区执行董事林荣杰( James Shepherd)表示，北京、上海等大城市的优越位置及优质建筑仍然吸引了很多潜在的买家，但很多二三线城市办公楼的单层销售已不受欢迎。
Government and private-sector statistics for real estate prices are inconsistent and hard to compare. But discounts of 10 percent to 20 percent from a year ago are increasingly common for homes sold between individuals, and increasingly for new units sold by developers as well, real estate executives said.
政府与私营企业提供的房价数据并不一致，而且很难进行比较。但房地产业的高管们表示，个人转手房屋和开发商销售新房时，价格比一年前低10%-20%的现象已变得日益普遍。