SYDNEY, Australia — Australia’s housing affordability crisis took a strange turn this week, after a woman’s “tiny home” was stolen from her Canberra business.
澳大利亚悉尼——本周，澳大利亚的住房供应危机出现了一个奇怪的转折，一名女子的“小房子”被从堪培拉的公司偷走。
Less than 24 hours later, a man spotted the house — a luxurious take on a camper or caravan — in Kingaroy, northwest of Brisbane in the state of Queensland, already hundreds of miles away.
不到24小时后，一名男子在数百英里外的昆士兰州西北部布里斯班的金格罗伊发现了这所房子——它看上去仿佛是一个奢华版的野营房车或旅行拖车。
After seeing Facebook posts about the missing home, the man contacted the owner, who alerted the authorities. The police discovered the house even further down the road in a storage facility near Hervey Bay, more than 1,400 kilometers, or 900 miles, from where it was stolen. A 24-year-old man was arrested Wednesday, a police spokesman confirmed.
这名男子在Facebook上看到这所丢失房子的照片后，与房主取得了联系，后者通知了当局。警察继续向北搜索，在距离丢失地点1400多公里（约合900英里）的哈维湾附近的一个仓库里发现了这所房子。警方发言人确认，周三，一名24岁的男子被捕。
“Who steals a house?” said the home’s owner, Julie Bray. She said she prototyped and built the unit to attract customers to her timber business, and she intended to put it into mass-manufacturing by the end of the year — in part to respond to Australia’s increasingly unaffordable housing market.
“谁会偷房子？”房子的主人朱莉·布雷(Julie Bray)说。她说她设计了这个房子的原型，并做了一个样板房，为自己的木材公司招揽顾客，打算在年底前投入批量生产——她这是考虑到澳大利亚的住房市场日益昂贵。
Ms. Bray said she was shocked when it was confirmed that the house had made it to Queensland. It’s 3.7 meters, or 12 feet, tall and weighs nearly 1.5 tons.
布雷表示，当这所房子被确认已到达昆士兰州后，她感到十分震惊。这所房子高达3.7米，重约1.5吨。
“I can’t believe it. They drove it across the country, in broad daylight, and then parked it in a facility with CCTV cameras,” she said.
“我简直不敢相信。他们在光天化日之下，开车载着它穿过这个国家，然后把它停在一个有监控摄像头的设施里，”她说。
Though the 24-year-old man has been charged by the police in Queensland with bringing stolen property into the state, Senior Constable Troy Roberts of the Australian Capital Territory police said an investigation was continuing.
虽然这名24岁男子已被昆士兰警方指控携带赃物进入该州，但澳大利亚首都直辖区的高级警官特洛伊·罗伯茨(Troy Roberts)表示，调查仍在继续。
“This is a first for us,” he said. “Thanks to the good work of Queensland police, the house was recovered intact.”
“我们第一次碰到这种情况，”他说。“多亏昆士兰警方工作得力，房子才能完好无损地物归原主。”