Anyone in the market for a luxury apartment in Hong Kong, London or Washington toward the end of last year was in luck. The rents on prime flats were sagging a bit. Billionaires could lock in leases on pieds-à-terre at a slight discount. You might suppose that those savings would trickle down to regular working Joes, but no — middle-market rents in those cities continued their apparently inexorable upward march.
去年底在香港、伦敦或华盛顿的市场中寻找豪华公寓的租户都走运了。顶级公寓的租金回落了一点点。亿万富翁可以以轻微的折扣签下备用房租约。你可能会认为，这种省钱的趋势会下渗到普通工薪阶层身上，但事实并非如此——在这些城市的中级市场里，房租在继续以明显的不可阻挡之势向上攀升。
The developed world’s wealthiest cities are facing housing crises so acute that not only low-income workers, but also the middle and creative classes, find them increasingly difficult places to afford. Redfin, the real estate website, recently found that there was not a single home on the market in San Francisco that would be affordable on a teacher’s salary. And that was just for buyers; in many cities, renting is even more expensive.
发达国家最富裕的城市正面临极其尖锐的住房危机，不仅是低收入的工人们，就连中产阶层和创意阶层也发现，他们越来越买不起房了。房地产网站Redfin最近得出结论，在旧金山的房市里，以教师的收入根本买不起任何一套房。这还只是对买房者而言；在许多城市，房租甚至会更贵。
The rules of the market say that in this situation, people should simply opt to live someplace cheaper. But in today’s economy, that’s not so simple. Detroit has very cheap housing, but unfortunately, all of it is in Detroit. Alternately, more desirable cities could build more housing to satisfy demand, but new developments don’t tend to have that effect.
市场规律表明，在这种情况下，人们应该直接选择住在更便宜的地方。然而，在今天的经济形势下，情况并非如此简单。底特律有非常廉价的住房，但不幸的是，这些住房都在底特律。另一个选择是，更令人向往的城市可以建造更多住房以满足需求，可是新楼盘往往不会有这种效果。
Luxury towers are sprouting up, adding density to unlikely places, from the Brooklyn waterfront to San Francisco’s Mid-Market district. But adding inventory to the high end does nothing to help the middle — one of the many irritating peculiarities of the 21st-century boomtown housing market. Building new apartments can actually push rents higher, and amenities for the masses, like transportation and parks, may have the effect of pricing them out. Everyone wants to live in these places, so no one can afford to. What’s a global city to do?
豪华高层住宅在四处涌现，从布鲁克林水滨到旧金山的中市场街，各种意想不到的地方的居住密度在增加。然而，增加高端市场的存量对中级市场毫无帮助——这是21世纪的繁华都市房产市场里令人恼怒的怪现状之一。建造新公寓实际上将把租金推得更高，而交通和公园等为大众提供的公共福利设施，可能会导致房价被抬高。每个人都想住在这些地方，所以，没有一个人能负担得起。一个全球化的城市该怎么做呢？
There is one city that has managed to surmount this problem. The achievement of near-universal affordable housing in a place with limited land mass might be a beacon of hope, were it not for the fact that it is Singapore, a sovereign city-state with one-party rule, wonky leaders, an economy that has grown rapidly in the last half-century and one of the highest per-capita incomes on earth. There, more than 80 percent of the population lives in public housing designed with walkability, ethnic diversity and green space in mind.
只有一个城市已成功地解决了这个问题。在一片地块有限的区域里为几乎所有的居民提供了买得起的住房，这种成就也许是希望的灯塔，只可惜了一个现实，那就是这个地方是新加坡，这是一个城市国家，实施一党统治，领导人大包大揽，该国的经济在过去50年里一直在迅速增长，是全球人均收入最高的国家之一。在新加坡，有超过80%的人口居住在公共住房里，这些住房的设计充分考虑到了适于步行、种族多元化和绿色空间的概念。
The Singapore solution required drastic action of a sort that most other places could not countenance: In the early 1960s, the government started building big, uniform apartment buildings, then pushed workers to move out of overcrowded shophouses and huts. Some herded their livestock along to their new flats. And at first, many residents were afraid of the higher floors.
新加坡的解决方案要靠某种极端的行动，这可能是其他大多数国家都无法接受的：上世纪60年代初，政府开始建造统一的大型公寓楼，然后敦促上班族们搬出过度拥挤的店屋和棚屋。一些居民赶着自己的牲畜，和它们一道搬进新房。一开始，许多居民都对更高的楼层感到害怕。
Today, cities that want to actually solve their housing problems will have to stomach similar forms of psychic dislocation, not necessarily for those being housed, but for those with strong ideas about what their city should look and feel like. Many of the things that we cherish most about urban living are the very things that make housing more expensive. San Francisco, certainly one of the world’s loveliest cities, has restrictions that keep much of residential construction under 40 feet. And even in New York, no stranger to height, the high-rises to be built on the site of the old Domino Sugar refinery in Williamsburg have prompted teeth-gnashing from the guardians of the “urban fabric.”
在今天，想要真正解决住房问题的城市必须要能忍受类似这样的心理错位，不见得只是在已有居所的居民身上，还会发生在另一些人身上，他们对所处城市的外观和城市给人带来的感受有强烈的主张。城市生活里最让我们珍惜的许多事物，恰恰正是推高房价的因素。旧金山显然是全球最令人心仪的城市之一，该市有大部分民居都不得超过40英尺的限制。即使是在对高楼毫不陌生的纽约，将在威廉斯堡的老多米诺糖厂(Domino Sugar)原址上建造的摩天大楼，就已气得“都市织体”的保卫者咬牙切齿了。
New York’s new mayor, Bill de Blasio, who promised, on the campaign trail, to build more than 100,000 affordable apartments, seems to have an inkling of what will be required. “It’s going to take a willingness to use height and density to the maximum feasible extent,” he has said. “I don’t have a hang-up about it.”
纽约新市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)曾在竞选过程中承诺，要建造10万多幢价格合理的公寓，他对必要的条件似乎还是略知一二的。他已经表示，“这需要在最大的可行限度内去利用高度和密度。我不会在这一点上有什么困扰。”
But then, lots of people think they know what to do to fix housing: Stick it to the landlord with rent controls. Require developers to set aside low-cost units. Build more subsidized housing. Distribute more rent vouchers or, as San Francisco has recently done, funnel taxes and fees into a housing trust fund. For those with more faith in market forces, there is always the loosening of zoning regulations, in imitation of sprawling Houston — which is indisputably cheap, so long as you don’t factor in the cost of driving.
不过，有许多人认为，他们知道该如何解决住房问题，那就是通过控制房租把这个问题和房东绑在一块。可以要求开发商放弃建造低成本的房间。建造更多补贴住房。发放更多的房租优惠券，或者，就像旧金山今日所做的那样，把税费注入一家房屋信托基金。对那些更笃信市场力量的人来说，放松分区管制总归没错，模仿不断向外扩张的休斯顿——该市的房价之便宜是毋庸置疑的，只要你不把开车的成本计算在内。
Yet many of these solutions are dwarfed by the sheer size of the problem. London alone needs, by one count, 800,000 new units by 2021 to meet both pent-up and new demand. Sydney, where the median rent on a two-bedroom apartment is now $2,600 a month, aspires to build more than half a million units by 2031, a goal for which it would have to double its normal pace of construction. New York needs more than 300,000 units by 2030. By contrast, inclusionary zoning, a celebrated policy solution that requires developers to set aside units for working and low-income families, has created a measly 2,800 affordable apartments in New York since 2005. It’s not clear we have the fortitude to deal with these shortages head-on.
然而考虑到问题何其巨大，上述解决办法中有很多都相形见绌。单在伦敦，一项统计数据就显示，到2021年需要80万套新住房才能满足积压和新增的住房需求。在悉尼，两居室公寓月租金中间值为2600美元（约合1.6万元人民币），悉尼打算到2031年建造超过50万套住房，而要达成这一目标，需要将现有的建设速度加快一倍。纽约到2030年，需要新建30万套住房。相较之下，备受赞誉的“包容性分区”政策在纽约只提供了区区2800套廉价公寓，这一政策要求开发商为工薪阶层和低收入家庭预留房屋。我们是否具备直面住房短缺问题的勇气，还很难说。
And housing policy can be very tricky to get right. “Success is going to be in the eye of the beholder,” says Eric Belsky, the managing director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard. “If success means building more homes at greater densities, you’ll end up with some neighbors not happy, and if you target everything at low incomes, the middle class will feel left out.”
住房政策相当棘手，很难做到恰到好处。“成功与否是见仁见智的事，”哈佛大学住房研究联合中心(Joint Center for Housing Studies)执行主任埃里克·贝尔斯基(Eric Belsky)说。“如果成功意味着以更大的密度建造更多住房，就会让一些社区感到不满，如果完全关注低收入阶层，中产阶级就会感觉自己被甩在了一边。”
There are other complications as well, Belsky says. Economic forces relentlessly push back against the best intentions of political leaders. Let’s say you take a crummy neighborhood, and you build a really nice affordable housing complex in the middle of it. You’ve just made everything around the complex more desirable, and thus more expensive. You’ve lowered some people’s rent, but raised everybody else’s (perhaps even making the waiting list to get into the new complex even longer). Or let’s say you want poor people to be able to live in mixed-income neighborhoods, so you subsidize their rent. If there are too many vouchers and not enough apartments, Belsky says, you have just raised everybody’s rent again.
还有其他的复杂因素，贝尔斯基说。经济力量会无情地阻挠政治领袖的良好初衷。比如，如果你在一个破败的社区当中，修建了一座相当棒的平价小区，那么这个小区周围的所有东西都会更受人欢迎，因此价格也会提高。你替一些人降低了租金，却给另一些人提高了租金（或许还让排队等待入住新公寓的人变得更多了）。再比如，你想让穷人能住进各阶层混合居住的社区，于是打算给他们提供租金补贴。可是，贝尔斯基指出，如果租金补贴过多，但又没有足够多的房屋，那你又会提高所有人的租金。
It seems the only solution would be to level all of, say, North Brooklyn and put up monolithic prefab tower blocks. But New Yorkers don’t want to live in Singapore. They want historic brownstones, landmark warehouses and waterfront views. The difficulty of deciding where and what to build means that cities with a shortfall of hundreds of thousands of apartments often have only the vaguest plans for how to meet the deficit.
唯一的解决办法似乎是铲平北布鲁克林之类的区域，然后建起高耸的预制住宅大厦。然而纽约人不想居住在新加坡。他们想要有历史感的褐砂石房屋、地标性的仓库，以及水畔的景观。由于很难决定在哪里建造什么样的房屋，很多短缺数十万套住房的城市，对于如何填补缺口，常常只有最含混的方案。
“It’s not that it would be physically impossible,” says Ed Glaeser, a Harvard economist who has studied housing and deregulation. “After all, the construction industry would love such a challenge. But it’s politically totally impossible.” Glaeser says cities approve lovely things like landmark districts and sidewalk setbacks without doing any cost-benefit analysis of their effect on housing supply. “One of my pet peeves is that environmental reviews are only focused on the local environmental impact of building the project, but not the global environmental impact of not building the project.”
哈佛大学经济学家埃德·格雷泽(Ed Glaeser)说，“这又不是什么违背自然法则的难事。毕竟建筑产业会很乐意接受这样的挑战，只是在政治上完全不可行。”格雷泽对住房和去监管化有过研究，他表示，城市在批准一些讨人喜欢的措施，如地标性社区、人行道退缩位之时，并不会对住房供应受到的影响做任何成本收益分析。“我个人比较烦的一件事是，环境评估只关注于建造一个项目会对当地环境产生的影响，而不关心不建造一个项目对总体环境的影响。”
But unshackling the private sector may not be a complete solution, either. Many housing advocates, even conservative ones, insist that the free market will never provide housing that low-income families can afford, because apartments are simply too expensive to build nowadays. Some form of subsidy is needed, they say. But the size of a subsidy that actually covered the demand would be immense. The Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington figured out that giving all low-income families vouchers large enough to make their rents affordable would require federal rent supports, now at $62 billion a year, to more than double.
然而解除私营部门受到的束缚可能也不是完整的解决之道。许多住房倡导人士，甚至是那些立场保守的人都坚持认为，自由市场不可能提供低收入家庭住得起的房屋，因为现在建造住房实在太贵了。他们表示，需要某种形式的补贴。然而要想实际满足需求，所需的补贴规模是巨大的。华盛顿的两党政策中心(Bipartisan Policy Center)计算，要想向所有的低收入家庭提供足够的补贴，使其承担得起租价，就需要将当前金额为每年620亿美元的联邦租金支持，至少增加一倍。