Michael and Melanie Bellanger Boyer, transplanted Parisians who live in a snug one-bedroom in the West 90s, are members of what social scientists sometimes call the “forgotten middle.”
迈克尔(Michael)和梅兰妮·贝朗格·布瓦耶(Melanie Bellanger Boyer)是来自巴黎的移民，现住于西90几街的一套温馨一居室内。他们，就属于那种有时被社会科学家称为“被遗忘的中间层”的人。
Mr. Boyer, 29, earns $90,000 a year as a financial auditor. His wife, 31, earns $21,000 working at an animal shelter, where a modest salary is offset by generous benefits, a boon since the birth of a daughter, Nora, in January.
29岁的布瓦耶是财务审计，年收入9万美元（约合人民币56万元）。他的妻子31岁，在动物收容所工作，年收入2.1万美元（约合人民币13万元），薪水虽低，但福利优厚。自从两人的女儿诺拉(Nora)今年1月出生后，这点福利可以说是帮了大忙。
Last August, the couple moved to a 500-square-foot space for which the rent is $2,700. With such attractions as exposed brick, an ornately carved fireplace and a location just steps from Central Park, the apartment was the nicest and most affordable one they could find. But the hefty rent check they write every month takes an increasing toll.
去年8月，夫妇俩搬进一套500平方英尺（约合46平方米）的房子，租金2700美元（约合人民币16876元）。这是他们能找到的最好的房子了。它的亮点在于裸露的墙砖、带有雕刻装饰的壁炉和绝佳的方位——离中央公园只有几步路。但是他们每月签发的高额租金支票，也给他们带来了日益沉重的负担。
“If it weren’t for the high rent, I could afford to stay home with the baby,” Ms. Bellanger Boyer said, noting that the family’s monthly expenses now include $2,000 for child care. “But I needed to keep my job because we need my benefits, and so we had to put Nora in day care.”
“要不是租金那么贵，我完全可以呆在家里带孩子，”贝朗格·布耶尔夫人说，她指出，家里每月的开支现在又多了一项——2000美元（约合人民币12501元）的育儿费。“但是我得保住工作，因为我需要它的福利。所以，我们只能把诺拉送到托儿所。”
Households like this — middle-income in terms of earnings but paying at least 30 percent of those earnings for housing — perch on the knife edge between hope and anxiety. Even as their housing costs mount, they struggle to hang onto their apartments because they know that their options can only narrow, given the city’s challenging housing market. Those lucky enough to be ensconced in rent-regulated units, a dwindling commodity, hang onto them for dear life.
像这样的家庭徘徊于希望和焦虑之间，就像在刀尖上起舞。他们的收入处于中等水平，但是有30%的收入要花在租房上。就算住房成本上涨，他们也依然要想尽办法保住自己的公寓，因为他们知道，这座城市的住房市场竞争激烈，自己的选择范围只会更窄。受到租金管制的住宅套数越来越少，有幸在其中安居的人对此倍加珍惜。
And in Manhattan, where such households are most prevalent, the situation is especially acute. These residents fear, often correctly, that if they lose their current berth, they will be forced not just out of the borough but out of the city, a move that may result in a longer commute and less family time.
在这类家庭最为常见的曼哈顿，形势尤其严峻。这些居民担心，假如失去了现在的住处，他们不仅在目前的社区呆不下去，还不得不搬离这座城市。这样一来，通勤时间可能会更长，家人团聚的时间也会更少。这样的担心往往并不是杞人忧天。
This population includes young middle-class families like the Boyers, burdened with child care expenses, along with elderly New Yorkers living on fixed incomes, and young singles earning starter salaries and doubling, tripling or quadrupling up in pocket-size quarters to acquire a New York lifestyle. And their situation is attracting growing attention.
这样的群体包括：布耶尔家这类负担着育儿支出的年轻中产阶级家庭；靠固定收入生活的、年迈的纽约人；收入为起薪水平，却因向往纽约的生活方式，两人、三人甚至四人挤住在一起的年轻单身族。他们的情况，引起了越来越多的关注。
On May 5, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced a $41 billion plan to provide additional affordable housing for middle-income as well as low-income New Yorkers.
5月5日，纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)宣布了一项410亿美元（约合人民币2563亿元）的计划，旨在为中低收入的纽约人新建平价住房。
A few weeks earlier, the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University and Capital One Bank jointly issued a report titled “The Affordable Rental Housing Landscape,” showing that low-income New Yorkers are not the only city residents to be rent-burdened — that is, to pay at least 30 percent of their gross income for rent and utilities. Among middle-income households — for example, a three-person household earning between $91,000 and $152,000 annually — 14 percent or roughly 290,000 households fell into this category in 2012.
几周后，纽约大学富曼房地产及城市政策中心(Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University)和第一资本银行(Capital One Bank)联合发布了一份报告，题为《平价出租住宅行情》(The Affordable Rental Housing Landscape) 。报告显示，低收入纽约人并不是为租金所困的唯一群体。所谓租金负担重，就是指总收入中至少有30%需要用于支付房租和水电费。2012年，在中等收入家庭当中——比如年收入在9.1万到15.2万美元（约合人民币57万到95万元）的三口之家，有14%或者大约29万的家庭属于这一类型。
“We examined the situation because rental housing has become less affordable in the past six years,” said Max Weselcouch, the director of the Moelis Institute for Affordable Housing Policy at the Furman Center. “Between 2005 and 2008 things looked pretty good. The median income rose, and new housing construction was at a peak. But between 2009 and 2012, there was little new construction even as preliminary estimates show that up to 200,000 new residents arrived in New York.”
“我们考察租房市场的行情是因为，近六年来，出租住房越来越住不起了，”富曼中心莫里斯平价住房政策研究所(Moelis Institute for Affordable Housing Policy)的马克斯·韦塞尔库奇(Max Weselcouch)说，“从2005年到2008年，形势看起来一片大好。收入中值在上升，新房建设活动也达到了高峰。而从2009年到2012年，虽然初步估计显示，纽约新增了20万居民，但是建设活动却非常少。”
And a report titled “The State of New York City’s Housing and Neighborhoods in 2013,” issued by the Furman Center on May 28, concluded that the percentage of middle-income households in the city decreased from 61 percent in 1990 to 56 percent in 2012.
5月28日，富曼中心发布一份报告，题为《2013年纽约市的住房和社区状况》(The State of New York City’s Housing and Neighborhoods in 2013)。报告得出结论称，纽约市中等收入家庭的比例从1990年的61%，下降到了2012年的56%。
The experiences of families like the Boyers put flesh on the numbers. The couple were taken aback by hefty upfront costs that included a broker’s fee and a two-month deposit (one of the months because of their dog). And space is at a premium. A crib and baby carriage nestle next to the double bed in the bedroom, a playpen dominates the living room, and a car seat atop a dining chair doubles as a highchair. But most stressful is the anxiety about the future.
布耶尔家等家庭的经历，就是对这些数据的生动注解。夫妻俩被高昂的预付费用吓了一跳，其中包括中介费和两个月的定金（多交一个月是因为他们养了狗）。空间是非常珍贵的。一张婴儿床和一辆婴儿车，紧贴在卧室的双人床旁边，婴儿围栏占据了起居室的大部分空间。在餐椅上加放一个儿童汽车安全椅，就成为一把儿童高脚椅。不过最让人焦虑的，还是对未来的担忧。
“I can’t complain,” Mr. Boyer said. “We have a decent life. But we worry that we can’t save any money. If we have major health care expenses, we wouldn’t have saved enough to cover them. If we were in France, we might be paying the same percent of our salary for rent, but items like health care would be covered.
“我不能抱怨，”布耶尔说，“我们过得还比较体面。但是我们担心存不住钱。万一生了病，要花一大笔钱，我们的存款可能就不够了。要是在法国，我们所交房租占收入的比例可能一样，但是医疗费这类开支都可以由社保覆盖。”
“Our back is against the wall,” he added. “Manhattan is nice when you’re young, but with a baby it’s really hard. We need more space, and we’re paying 31 percent of our income for rent.”
“我们已经走投无路了，”他说，“年轻时住在曼哈顿是很好的。但是有了孩子，在这里生活真的很艰难。我们需要更宽敞的地方，而我们31%的收入都用来交租了。”
Although the couple yearns to stay in the borough, they suspect that when their lease expires in August they will have to move farther afield, hopefully to a place carrying a more modest price tag.
尽管夫妻俩很想留在曼哈顿，但他们怀疑在今年8月租约到期后，可能还是得往更偏远的地区搬，那里的房价会便宜一点。
There are compelling reasons middle-income families might choose to pay a higher than desirable rent for the benefit of living in a metropolis like New York, which offers so much in the way of jobs, safety, a lively lifestyle and cheap transportation.
中等收入家庭之所以愿意支付高额的租金，享受生活在纽约这类大都市的好处，或许是有充分理由的。生活在大都市的优厚福利体现在就业好、治安好、生活方式充满活力，以及交通费用低廉。
“It may be a rational choice to pay more to live here because you get so much,” said Matthew Gordon Lasner, an assistant professor in the Urban Affairs and Planning Department of Hunter College. But in his opinion, middle-income families often pay an unexpectedly steep emotional price for the privilege.
“多花点钱住在这里，或许是一个合理的选择，毕竟你能得到很多东西，”亨特学院(Hunter College)城市事务与规划系(Urban Affairs and Planning Department)的助理教授马修·戈登·拉斯纳(Matthew Gordon Lasner)说。不过在他看来，中等收入家庭为了享受这样的福利，往往付出了意想不到的高额情感代价。
“In New York, it’s not just the poor in Jacob Riis-type conditions who endure housing stress,” said Professor Lasner, the author of the book “High Life: Condo Living in the Suburban Century” (Yale University Press, 2012). “When it comes to housing, middle-income families also need help. They earn too much to qualify for apartments earmarked for low-income families, but they can’t afford market-rate housing. So they feel very vulnerable. They get that letter telling them their rent is going up, and they realize they’re one pen stroke away from being displaced, from having to pay a lot more for a new apartment, or worse, having to leave the city.
“在纽约，不是只有雅各布·里斯（Jacob Riis，一名丹麦裔的美国籍社会改革家，揭发社会腐败现象的新闻工作者及社会纪实摄影家——译注）那样的穷人，才会有住房压力，”拉斯纳说，“在住房问题上，中等收入家庭也需要帮助。因为收入水平比较高，他们不能住国家为低收入家庭建的房子；但是他们又住不起市价房，因此觉得自己很弱势。每次接到房东的来信说租金要涨，他们就意识到自己随时可能被赶走，到时候又得付出更多金钱去租新的公寓，说不定结果会更惨——连这座城市也呆不下去。”拉斯纳是《高额生活：在属于市郊的世纪，共管公寓内的生活》（High Life: Condo Living in the Suburban Century，耶鲁大学出版社[Yale University Press]，2012年版）一书的作者。
“They’re truly the forgotten middle, locked out of both luxury and public housing,” said Professor Lasner, whose department recently published a report titled “Where Will New Yorkers Live?” that underscored the shrinking number of affordable rentals for middle-income households. “They don’t experience as much stress as low-income families, but they live with a tremendous amount of uncertainty.”
“他们真的可称得上是被遗忘的中间层，奢华住宅和公共住房都将他们拒之门外，”拉斯纳说，他的院系最近发布了一份报告，题为《纽约人将何处为家？》(Where Will New Yorkers Live?)。报告强调，面向中等收入家庭的平价出租屋已经越来越少。“他们的压力不像低收入家庭那么大，但是他们在生活中也面临着极大的不确定性。”
New York is a city of renters — according to the Furman Center, two-thirds of the city’s three million households rent — and this is one reason the center and Capital One focused on this population in their report. Of the city’s rental units, 45 percent are stabilized or controlled, 8 percent are in public housing, 8 percent are subsidized, and the rest are market rate.
纽约是一座租房者的城市——根据富曼中心的调查，在纽约市的300万家庭当中，有三分之二的家庭是租房居住的——这也是富曼中心和第一资本银行在报告中关注这一群体的一个原因。在纽约市的出租房源当中，有45%受到价格平抑或租金管制，8%是公共住房，8%是补贴房，其余则都是市价房。
For generations, middle-income New Yorkers found it relatively easy to land an affordable place to live. But soaring rents sparked by a tight-as-a-drum real estate market, combined with a dwindling number of rent-regulated apartments, stagnant wages, and a burgeoning population fueled by the city’s growing allure, have transformed this landscape.
以前，一代又一代中等收入的纽约人，不需要费很大力气就能找到住得起的房子。但是如今，情况已经发生改变，因为租金在激烈的市场竞争中扶摇直上，受到租金管制的公寓不断减少，工资增长迟滞，而城市魅力的与日俱增，也加剧了市内人口的膨胀。
In Manhattan, which Ms. Weselcouch of the Furman Center described as “the epicenter of fear,” the situation is especially acute. Rents in the borough have climbed more than any others in the city, up by 19 percent between 2005 and 2012. During those years, the rents of one quarter of the previously regulated units in the borough were deregulated.
富曼中心的韦塞尔库奇，把曼哈顿称为“恐惧的震中”，这里的形式尤其严峻。从2005年到2012年，曼哈顿地区租金的上涨幅度达到19%，超过了其它市区。在同一时期，原本受到租金管制的住宅，有四分之一解除了管制。
Three 20-somethings from Florida who moved in January to a 900-square-foot apartment on East 39th Street can speak firsthand about how difficult it can be to establish a toehold in this landscape.
在纽约立足究竟有多难？三名来自佛罗里达州的20岁出头的年轻人，就可以现身说法。她们今年1月搬进了东39街的一套900平方英尺（约合84平方米）的公寓。
The three are Cecillia Costa, Dana Bakich and Danielle Dormand. All have full-time jobs in sales, and Ms. Dormand moonlights as a cocktail waitress several evenings a week. Their combined annual salaries come to just under $150,000.
这三位分别名叫塞西莉亚·科斯塔(Cecillia Costa)、达娜·巴基奇(Dana Bakich)和丹妮尔·德蒙(Danielle Dormand)的年轻人，都从事的是全职销售工作。德蒙每周还有几个晚上会去做兼职的鸡尾酒吧女招待。她们的年收入加起来只有近15万美元（约合人民币94万元）。
In January, their broker, Dan Falconetti of Citi Habitats, found them a two-bedroom with a view of the East River and a balcony Ms. Costa liked so much that she put a picture of it on her Facebook page. A temporary wall allowed them to carve a third bedroom out of the living room. Their total monthly rent is $4,100.
今年1月，她们的房产经纪人、Citi Habitats的丹·法尔科内蒂(Dan Falconetti)为她们找了一套可以看到东河(East River)景观的两居室公寓，还带一个阳台。科斯塔特别喜欢那个阳台，她专门拍了张照片上传到Facebook。一道临时的墙，让她们可以在客厅里隔出第三间卧室。她们每月的房租加起来是4100美元（约合人民币25267元）。
Like so many newcomers, the three were drawn by the city’s sense of promise and possibility, a chance to reinvent themselves and reinvigorate their lives.
和许多初到纽约的人一样，三个人被这座城市的前景和其间的各种可能性深深吸引着。她们觉得，可以借此机会重塑自我，让生活恢复活力。
“I wanted something new and different,” Ms. Bakich said. “I wanted to go bigger. I didn’t have a job, but I’d saved, and I figured I’d just make it work — no ifs, ands or buts.”
“我想尝试和以往不同的新生活，” 巴基奇说，“我想住在大城市。我以前没有工作，但存了些钱。我觉得我必须勇敢行动——没有任何犹豫和退缩。”
Ms. Costa put it another way: “I moved here to change my life.”
科斯塔换了一种说法，表达了相同的想法：“我搬到这里来是想改变生活。”
To save on groceries, they take advantage of perks like free yogurt and cereal available in their offices.
为了节省日常杂项开支，她充分利用了公司的额外补贴，比如办公室里的免费酸奶和麦片。
“And movies are so expensive,” Ms. Bakich said, “I’ve been only a few times since I arrived in the city a year and a half ago, even though I used to go all the time.”
“看电影太贵了，” 巴基奇说，“我来纽约已经有一年半时间了，只去过几次。而以前我老是去看电影。”
For women used to balmy weather year-round, big-ticket wardrobe items like boots and winter coats are prohibitive. “I haven’t bought a single article of clothing since January,” Ms. Costa said. “I haven’t even gone into a store. You can’t.”
对于习惯了一年四季宜人天气的女性而言，靴子、冬季大衣这类太占衣柜空间的大件服饰，都是不能碰的。“我从今年1月开始就一件衣服也没买，”科斯塔说，“连商店都没逛过。不能逛啊。”
Furnishing the apartment also proved daunting. “We bought one thing per paycheck,” Ms. Costa said. “I had no lamp in my bedroom for two weeks.” Two weeks ago they bought a toaster.
事实证明，为公寓添置家具也是一项艰巨的任务。“我们每收到一次薪水支票，就买一样东西，”科斯塔说，“我的卧室里已经有两星期没有台灯用了。”两星期前，她们买了一台烤面包机。
“And nails, eyebrows — they’ve gone out the window,” Ms. Dormand said. “I use box hair dye. I eat dollar pizza, and I’ve learned to like it. Broke in Florida isn’t like broke here. Here, $40 gets you nowhere, not even out of the house.”
“美甲、修眉——这些统统都没有了，”德蒙说，“我现在用的是盒装染发剂，吃几美元的披萨，我已经学会去喜欢这种事了。在佛罗里达破产跟在这里破产，可是两码事。在这里，你口袋里揣着40美元（约合人民币250元）哪儿也去不了，连家门都出不去。”
Finances are such a constant worry that until recently, when she stopped working on commission, she dreaded opening her paycheck on Fridays.
经济压力总是挥之不去的。直到最近，她的收入不再仅按业绩提成计算，情况才有所缓解。而此前，每到周五拿钱的时候，她都很害怕看到薪水支票上的数字。
Yet all three are, at least for now, willing to make the sacrifices necessary to buy themselves a Manhattan lifestyle.
不过，三个人都愿意为了享受曼哈顿的生活方式而付出牺牲。至少当前如此。
“I feel very proud of myself, and everyone is proud of me,” Ms. Dormand said. “I didn’t just move away, I moved to Manhattan.” She is even proud to write her address: New York, New York.
“我非常自豪，所有人都为我骄傲，”德蒙说，“我并不只是离开了家乡——我来的可是曼哈顿。”就连写下“纽约（州），纽约（市）”这个地址的时候，她都感到自豪。
Their broker understands the trade-offs. Mr. Falconetti recently agreed to pay $1,500 a month to live with six other people — “at least I hope there are only six,” he said — in a seven-bedroom loft in Williamsburg. “If you’d have asked me when I first came to New York in 2008 whether I’d have done something like this,” he said, “I’d have said, ‘No way.’ Now I’m jumping at the opportunity.”
她们的经纪人也深谙这样的得失权衡。法尔科内蒂本人最近也签下一项租约，与六人合租了一套月租1500美元（约合人民币9376元）的房子——“我只求室友只有六个，”他说，这是一套位于威廉斯堡的七居室跃层公寓。“我是2008年来的纽约，如果你当时问我，会不会住这样的房子，”他说，“我会说，‘没门。’而现在，有这样的机会就不错了。”
Along with the mayor’s new housing plan, other efforts are underway. New York City Councilwoman Helen Rosenthal, whose district covers much of the Upper West Side, is seeking ways to make more units in luxury buildings available to middle-income families.
除了市长的最新住房计划外，政府还在做其它方面的努力。选区覆盖了上西区大部地区的纽约市议会女议员海伦·罗森塔尔(Helen Rosenthal)正在寻找方法，使更多位于奢华建筑内的住宅公寓对中等收入的家庭开放。
“A family of four earning from $84,000 to $140,000 is the hole in the doughnut,” Ms. Rosenthal said, “and we don’t have a way to address that group.”
“收入在8.4万到14万美元（约合人民币53万到88万元）的四口之家，就好比甜甜圈上的那个洞，”罗森塔尔说，“我们还没有安置这个群体的方法。”
She can already point to one modest victory. Her office worked with TF Cornerstone, which is building a 1,025-unit luxury tower at 606 West 57th Street, to increase to 220 from 205 the number of units set aside for families of four earning about $150,000 annually.
在这个问题上，她已小有斩获，其办公室与地产商TF Cornerstone开展了合作。TF Cornerstone正在西57街606号建设一栋包括1025个单位的奢华住宅楼，原本为年收入在15万美元（约合人民币94万元）左右的四口之家预留了205套公寓，现在又增加到220套。
But the demand for such housing far outstrips the supply, as Laura Bailey, the managing vice president of community development finance at Capital One, which helps finance projects that include units for middle-income families, can testify.
然而，市场对此类房源的需求远远超过了供给。第一资本银行负责社区发展融资的劳拉·贝利(Laura Bailey)可以证实这一点。第一资本银行会协助那些为中等收入家庭预留住宅单元的项目进行筹资。
“At Macedonia Plaza in Flushing, Queens, we got 40,000 applications for 100-plus units,” Ms. Bailey said. “At Sugar Hill Apartments in Harlem, we had 48,000 applications for 98 units. There’s a certain amount of heartache you can see through the numbers.”
“在皇后区法拉盛(Flushing)的马其顿广场(Macedonia Plaza)，有4万名申请者在竞争100多套公寓，”贝利说，“而在哈莱姆区(Harlem)的Sugar Hill Apartments，4万8千名申请者在抢98套公寓。光看数字，你就知道我们有多头疼了。”
For rent-stressed middle-income New Yorkers, the greatest fear may be that they are one rent increase, or one layoff, away from having to depart New York for good.
对于租金压力巨大的中等收入纽约人来说，最令他们恐惧的事情或许莫过于，一旦失业或租金上涨，他们就不得不与纽约诀别。
This is what happened to Diane Ordelheide, 63, who moved from St. Louis to New York in 2002 to pursue a lifelong dream, a career as an actress. In that goal she succeeded, landing roles in “Law and Order,” “All My Children” and several movies and commercials. 
这就是今年63岁的黛安·奥尔德尔海德(Diane Ordelheide)的遭遇。2003年，她从圣路易斯(St. Louis)搬到纽约，就是为了追逐自己毕生的梦想——当一名女演员，开始演艺生涯。她实现了这个目标，在《法律与秩序》(Law and Order)、《我的孩子们》(All My Children)及好几部电影和广告片中获得了出镜机会。
But despite a $30,000-a-year pension from her quarter century as a teacher, finding affordable housing proved increasingly elusive. Ms. Ordelheide hopscotched from neighborhood to neighborhood, finally alighting three years ago in a renovated studio on West 102nd Street for which the monthly rent was $1,635. Though she estimates that the space was just about 200 square feet, she was charmed by the Murphy bed and the modern kitchen, accented with granite and stainless steel.
然而，尽管她曾从事的25年教职可以让她每年领取3万美元（约合人民币19万元）退休金，事实证明，要找一套住得起的房子还是越来越艰难。奥德尔海德一个社区一个社区地寻找，终于在三年前找到一套已装修的单间公寓。公寓位于西102街，月租1635美元（约合人民币10220元）。虽然房子的面积照她估计只有200平方英尺（约合19平方米），但她非常喜欢其中的墨菲床(Murphy bed)，和以花岗岩与不锈钢凸显风格的现代化厨房。
At a certain point, however, Ms. Ordelheide realized that she could no longer afford to remain in the city.
然而有那么一天，奥德尔海德意识到，自己在这座城市待不下去了。
“I wanted to stay here so bad,” she said. “The city changed my life, and I couldn’t imagine leaving. But one day I just realized that I couldn’t do this anymore. It was too scary. I came to the conclusion that I had to get out of the city. And once I decided, except for the sense of sadness, I felt a great relief.”
“我非常、非常想留下来，”她说，“这座城市改变了我的生活，我无法想象自己离开这里之后的生活。但是有一天，我突然意识到自己不能再这样下去了。太可怕了。我的结论是，我必须离开这座城市。做出决定后，除了有些悲伤，我感觉轻松了很多。”
On May 11, Ms. Ordelheide packed up her guitar, banjo and other possessions, and set off for a cottage in Pompano Beach, Fla. — monthly rent, $1,345.
5月11日，奥尔德海德收拾好她的吉他、班卓琴和其它个人物品，准备搬往佛罗里达州，入住庞帕诺海滩(Pompano Beach)的一间乡村小屋。那里的月租是1345美元（约合人民币8407元）。
“I’m trying to be positive because I have no choice,” she said as she was getting ready to leave. “I’m hoping that because I’m taking a lot of my things with me, the move will be easier. Still, it’s really hard.”
“我尽量保持乐观的心态，因为我没有选择，”她在准备搬家时说，“我本来希望，有我随身带去的这么多东西，搬家就不会那么难受了。但，这真的很难接受。”