The Beijing police have released further details about the arrests of Jaycee Chan, the son of the Hong Kong movie star Jackie Chan, and of the Taiwanese actor Ko Chen-tung on drug-related charges.
北京警方公布了房祖名和台湾演员柯震东涉嫌毒品被逮捕的进一步有关细节，房祖名是香港影星成龙的儿子。
In a statement posted on their official Sina Weibo microblog account Monday night, the police said that a Mr. Chan, a Mr. Ko and several other people were arrested last Thursday in the Dongcheng district of Beijing by antinarcotics authorities acting on a tip-off. Both Mr. Chan and Mr. Ko, it said, admitted to using marijuana and both tested positive for the drug.
警方周一晚在其官方新浪微博账号发布的一份声明中表示，禁毒总队在接到群众举报后，于上周四在北京东城区拘捕了一位房某某、一位柯某某以及其他几人。声明说，房某某和柯某某都已承认使用了大麻，两人的药物测试均呈阳性。
Although the police statement does not provide the full names of the suspects, the descriptions match those of Ko Chen-tung, who also goes by the name Kai Ko, and Jaycee Chan, who is also known as Fang Zuming.
虽然警方的声明没有给出犯罪嫌疑人的全名，但其中的描述与柯震东和房祖名相符，柯震东原名柯家凯(Kai Ko)，房祖名又名陈祖名(Jaycee Chan)。
According to the police statement, Mr. Chan is being held in criminal detention on suspicion of harboring suspected drug users, while Mr. Ko, who is suspected of only the illegal use of marijuana, is being held in administrative detention. Typically, under criminal detention, the police can hold someone for up to 30 days before deciding whether to pass the case on to prosecutors.Video footage released by China Central Television, the state broadcaster, showed photographs and the full names of the two men, as well as footage of the suspects with pixelated faces being questioned by the police. At one point in the video, a police officer holds up a urine sample and asks the man identified in the video as Mr. Ko to confirm the positive test result for marijuana. Mr. Ko confirms the result.
据警方的声明，房祖名因容留他人吸毒罪被刑事拘留，柯震东只是涉嫌非法使用大麻而被行政拘留。在通常的刑事拘留情况下，警方可监禁犯罪嫌疑人最多30天，其间要决定是否提起诉讼。属于政府的中国中央电视台公布了一段视频，视频显示了这两人的照片和全名，还有犯罪嫌疑人经模糊处理的面孔接受警方讯问的画面。视频还在一处显示了一名警察举起一个尿液样本，让被视频称为柯震东的人确认样本的大麻检测结果为阳性。柯震东确认了该结果。
The video also shows Mr. Chan at his home showing officers his stash of marijuana. The police said in their statement that they had recovered more than 100 grams of marijuana from Mr. Chan’s home.
视频还显示了房祖名在家中将自己存放的大麻指给警官。警方在声明中说，他们在房祖名家中查获100多克大麻。
Just before the Beijing police released their statement on Sina Weibo, Mr. Ko’s management company released a statement confirming previous reports that Mr. Ko, 23, had been detained in Beijing on drug-related charges on Aug. 14, according to The Beijing News. Also on Monday evening, Jackie Chan’s management company released a statement to the news media acknowledging the detention of the younger Mr. Chan, 31, and apologizing to society on his behalf, according to Chinese media reports.
据《新京报》报道，就在北京警方在新浪微博发布声明之前，柯震东的经纪人发了一份声明，确认了早些时候的报道，那些报道称23岁的柯震东因涉嫌毒品，已于8月14日在北京被拘留。另据中国媒体报道，成龙的经纪人也在周一晚对新闻媒体发了一份声明，承认31岁的房祖名被拘留，并代表成龙向社会道歉。
News of the arrests quickly became a hot topic of gossip, with rumors flying among mainland Chinese, Hong Kong and Taiwanese news media as well as among Chinese Internet users. The Beijing police statement on the Sina Weibo microblog site garnered more than 21,000 comments in less than a day.
这两人被逮捕的消息很快成为人们闲谈的热门话题，传言在中国大陆、香港和台湾的新闻媒体上，以及在中国互联网用户中满天飞。北京警方在新浪微博网站的声明，在不到一天的时间里，已得到2.1万多条评论。
Mr. Chan and Mr. Ko are just the latest in a growing roster of celebrities who have been caught up this year in an increasingly energetic Chinese government crackdown on illegal drugs.
房祖名和柯震东是登上一个不断增长的名人榜的最新两位，这些名人都在今年陷入了中国政府越来越积极的缉毒行动。
Many observers say the current campaign is one of the harshest in years. Since the beginning of 2014, the Beijing police have adopted a “zero tolerance” approach to illegal drug use under the rubric “All the police and all the people behind drug prohibition.”
许多观察者说，当前的行动是在多年来最严厉的一次。行动自2014年开始以来，北京警方在“全警禁毒、全民禁毒”理念的指导下，对非法使用毒品采取了“零容忍”的做法。
In their statement, the Beijing police said that so far this year, they had uncovered 1,700 drug-related cases in Beijing, up 53.2 percent from the same period last year, and made 7,800 drug-related arrests, 71.9 percent more than in the same period last year.
北京警方在声明中表示，到目前为止，今年他们已在北京查获1700多起与毒品有关的案件，比去年同期增长53.2％，并逮捕了7,800名涉毒嫌疑人，比去年同期增长71.9％。