“Withholding information from us will not work in your favor,” says Ronald S. Patrick, deputy director of talent development at the Central Intelligence Agency, which receives up to 150,000 résumés a year. Applicants who are offered a job go through a monthslong security clearance, including an intense background check. To pass, you can’t have been convicted of a felony (“That’s a showstopper for us”); also, no recent illegal drug use. You will be asked about drugs in the application. Tell the truth. “We don’t expect you to be shockingly, squeaky clean,” Patrick says. “We expect you to have lived a life, to have exercised bad judgment, to have gone through adolescence and made mistakes.”
“向我们隐瞒信息，对你是没好处的，”中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）人才开发副局长罗纳德·S·帕特里克(Ronald S. Patrick)说，这家机构每年会收到15万份简历。得到职位的求职者要接受为期一个月的安全审核，包括一次严密的背景调查。要通过该审核，你不能被判犯有重罪（“对我们来说这一点是没商量的”）；还有近期不能有使用非法药物的记录。“我们不指望你有多一尘不染，”帕特里克说。“我们的预设是你有过一段五彩人生，做过糟糕的决定，经历过青春期，犯过错误。”
Get your finances in order. “The No. 1 reason why Americans spy is for financial gain or need,” Patrick says. The C.I.A. sees bad credit and mountainous debt as potential liabilities. Prepare to be spied on. Investigators will come to your town; walk your streets; talk to your ex-colleagues, former roommates and nosy neighbors. They’re looking for people not listed as your character references, especially those who don’t like you. “I went through a lot of shoes,” Patrick says of his former role as a background investigator.
打理好自己的财务。“美国人当间谍的第一大诱因是金钱利益或需求，”帕特里克说。CIA认为糟糕的信用和巨额债务是潜在的不利因素。要做好被刺探的准备。调查人员会到你的老家去；走在你走过的街上；跟你的前同事、前室友和爱管闲事的邻居交谈。他们要找的是那些没有被你列为咨询人的人，尤其是那些不喜欢你的人。“我费了不少鞋，”在谈起自己以前作为背景调查员的工作时，帕特里克说。
Keep your romantic interests American. “If you’re in love with a Russian citi­zen,” Patrick says, “we cannot take that risk.” Sign over your medical records. “Tell us everything,” Patrick says. “It may be embarrassing. It may be something you want to forget, something you’ve put in your past — tell us about it anyway.”
只和美国人谈恋爱。“如果你爱上了一个俄罗斯公民，”帕特里克说，“我们不能冒那个险。”交出你的医疗记录。“把一切都告诉我们，”帕特里克说。“可能你会觉得不好意思。可能里面有些你想忘掉的事情，你想不再提起——但还是要全盘告诉我们。”
Be prepared to take a mandatory polygraph test, which Patrick describes as an “exceedingly reliable” way to find out whether you’ve been truthful. You will have many chances to disclose your secrets. Reveal them early and often. If investigators find out late in the process, through the polygraph interrogation or from sources, that you’re a regular stoner, say, or that your father is an arms smuggler, it will not reflect well on your trustworthiness. “This is the very last question we ask in the polygraph,” Patrick says. “ ‘Is there anything else that you want to tell us that we haven’t talked about?’ ”
做好接受强制性测谎的准备，帕特里克说这是一种“极为可靠”的手段，可以明确你是否说了实话。你有很多机会透露秘密。要尽早地、频繁地透露。如果在程序进行到后面时，被调查人员通过测谎讯问或其他信源了解到一些东西，比如你是个惯用大麻的人，或者你的父亲是走私武器的，对你的可信度会是一个打击。“我们测谎时最后一个问题是这样的，”帕特里克说。“你还有没有什么我们尚未谈及但你需要告诉我们的事情？”