SHARJAH KHALID PORT, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES—The man bobbing in the sea raises his arms in a seeming sign of surrender before he is shot in the head. He floats face down as his blood stains the blue water.
阿拉伯联合酋长国沙迦哈立德港——被子弹击中脑袋之前，这个在海面浮动的人曾抬起胳膊，做出像是投降的姿势。之后他脸朝下漂浮在海面上，鲜血染红蓝色的海水。
A slow-motion slaughter unfolds over the next 6 minutes and 58 seconds. Three other men floating in the ocean, some clinging to what looks like the wreckage of an overturned wooden boat, are surrounded by several large white tuna fishing boats. The sky above is clear and bue; the sea below, dark and choppy. As the ships’ engines idle loudly, at least 40 rounds are fired as the unarmed men are methodically picked off.
在接下来的6分58秒里，一场屠杀缓慢上演。另有三个人浮在海面上，有人抓着看起来像是倾覆木船的残骸之类的东西，他们被几艘白色的大型金枪鱼捕捞船围了起来。抬起头，可以看到清澈明净的蓝天，下方是浪涛汹涌的深色大海。处于空转状态的大船引擎轰鸣着，船上的人们有条不紊地逐一瞄准这三个手无寸铁的人射击着，至少打出了40发子弹。
“Shoot, shoot, shoot!” commands a voice over one of the ship’s loudspeakers as the final man is killed. Soon after, a group of men on deck who appear to be crew members laugh among themselves, then pose for selfies.
“开枪，开枪，开枪！”就在最后一个人被击毙时，其中一艘船上的扬声器里发出这样的指令。没多久，甲板上一群看起来像是船员的人彼此大笑，然后开始摆姿势，进行自拍。
Despite dozens of witnesses on at least four ships, those killings remain a mystery. No one even reported the incident — there is no requirement to do so under maritime law nor any clear method for mariners, who bounce from port to port, to volunteer what they know. Law enforcement officials learned of the deaths only after a video of the killings was found on a cellphone left in a taxi in Fiji last year, then posted on the Internet.
当时至少有四艘船，尽管船上有几十个目击者，但这起杀戮事件的始末至今不明。甚至没有一个人上报这起事件——目前的海洋法没有相关条款要求他们这么做，也没有提供任何明确途径，可以让辗转于各个港口的海员主动讲述自己所知道的事。直到去年，有人在遗落在斐济岛出租车上的手机里发现了一段记录这起屠杀事件的视频，执法官员才获知此事，之后视频被传到了网上。
With no bodies, no identified victims and no exact location of where the shootings occurred, it is unclear which, if any, government will take responsibility for leading an investigation. Taiwanese fishing authorities, who based on the video identified a fishing boat from Taiwan at the scene but learned little from the captain, say they believe the dead men were part of a failed pirate attack. But maritime security experts, warning that piracy has become a convenient cover for sometimes fatal score-settling, said it is just as likely that the men were local fishermen in disputed waters, mutinied crew, castoff stowaways or thieves caught stealing fish or bait.
由于找不到尸体，受害人身份不明，也不知道枪击事件发生的确切位置，现在就无法明确，应由哪国政府出面调查此事。台湾渔业部门依据视频指认其中一艘渔船来自台湾，但并未从此船的船长处了解太多信息。他们认为视频中的死者是袭击渔船失败反被枪杀的海盗。但海事安全专家发出警告，称海盗袭击已经成为掩盖有时致死的报复事件的便利借口，这些死者也可能是出现在有争议水域的当地渔民、哗变的船员、被抛弃的偷渡者，或者被抓住的偷鱼或偷饵料的窃贼。
“Summary execution, vigilantism, overzealous defense, call it what you will,” said Klaus Luhta, a lawyer with the International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots, a seafarers’ union. “This boils down just the same to a case of murder at sea and a question of why it’s allowed to happen.”
“草率处决、私人执法、防卫过当，随便你叫什么，”国际船长、大副和领航员组织(International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots)的律师克劳斯·卢赫特(Klaus Luhta)说道，该机构是一个海员工会组织。“归根结底，这是一起海上谋杀事件，问题在于为什么会发生这样的事。”
The oceans, plied by more ships than ever before, are also more armed and dangerous than any time since World War II, naval historians say. Thousands of seamen every year are victims of violence, with hundreds killed, according to maritime security officials, insurers and naval researchers. Last year in three regions alone — the western Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia and the Gulf of Guinea off West Africa — more than 5,200 seafarers were attacked by pirates and robbers and more than 500 were taken hostage, a database built by The New York Times shows.
海军历史学家们指出，出现在各个大洋上的船只与日俱增，船上配备的武器也更多，危险性更大，超过了二战以来的任何时期。海事安全官员、保险公司和海军研究人员表示，每年都有数千名海员遭遇海上暴力，数百人因此死亡。《纽约时报》建立的数据库显示，去年仅在三个海域——西印度洋、东南亚海域、西非海岸外的几内亚湾——就有5200多名海员遭遇海盗袭击和抢劫，有500多人沦为人质。
Many merchant vessels hired private security starting in 2008 as pirates began operating across larger expanses of the ocean, outstripping governments’ policing capacities. Guns and guards at sea are now so ubiquitous that a niche industry of floating armories has emerged. The vessels — part storage depot, part bunkhouse — are positioned in high-risk areas of international waters and house hundreds of assault rifles, small arms and ammunition. Guards on board wait, sometimes for months in decrepit conditions, for their next deployment.
随着海盗开始在更广阔的海域内活动，超出了政府执法能力，很多商船从2008年开始雇佣私人保安。如今，枪支和护卫队在海上如此泛滥，甚至催生了海上武器库这一细分市场。那些船只半为仓库，半为工舍，往往停泊在非常危险的国际水域，船上储藏着数以百计的突击步枪、各类小型武器和弹药。保安人员在船上等待下一次执行任务的机会，有时要在恶劣环境下等待数月。
Though pirate attacks on large container ships, like that depicted in the film “Captain Phillips,” have dropped sharply over the past several years, other forms of violence remain pervasive.
尽管电影《菲利普船长》（Captain Phillips，台湾译作《怒海劫》）中的场景——海盗对大型集装箱船的袭击——在过去几年已经大大减少，但其他形式的暴力事件依然相当普遍。
Armed gangs run protection rackets requiring ship captains to pay for safe passage in the Bay of Bengal near Bangladesh. Nigerian marine police officers routinely work in concert with fuel thieves, according to maritime insurance investigators. Off the coast of Somalia, United Nations officials say, some pirates who used to target bigger ships have transitioned into “security” work on board foreign and local fishing vessels, fending off armed attacks, but also firing on rivals to scare them away.
武装团伙会收取保护费，要求船长们交纳费用，以保他们能在靠近孟加拉的孟加拉湾海域安全通行。据海上保险研究者透露，尼日利亚海警官员会常常和燃油窃贼相勾结，展开行动。联合国官员表示，在索马里海域，有些过去以袭击大船为目标的海盗，已经转而在外籍和当地渔船上负责“安保”工作，他们不仅抵御武力袭击，也会对渔船的竞争对手开火，以吓退他们。
Provocations are common. Countries are racing one another to map and lay claim to untapped oil, gas or other mineral resources deep in the ocean, sparking clashes and boat burnings. From the Mediterranean to offshore Australia to the Black Sea, human traffickers carrying refugees and migrants sometimes ram competitors’ boats or deliberately sink their own ships to get rid of their illicit passengers or force a rescue.
挑衅事件经常发生。国家之间正在展开竞争，争相对未开发的深海石油、燃气和其他矿产资源进行测绘和宣示所有权，这引发了冲突和船只的焚烧。从地中海到澳大利亚周边海域，再到黑海，都有人口贩子带着难民和移民在海上航行，有时他们会撞击竞争对手的船只，或故意让自己的船只沉没，以摆脱船上的非法乘客，或迫使别人解救他们。
Violence among fishing boats is widespread and getting worse. Heavily subsidized Chinese and Taiwanese vessels are aggressively expanding their reach, said Graham Southwick, the president of the Fiji Tuna Boat Owners Association. Radar advancements and the increased use of so-called fish-aggregating devices — floating objects that attract schools of fish — have heightened tensions as fishermen are more prone to crowd the same spots. “Catches shrink, tempers fray, fighting starts,” Mr. Southwick said. “Murder on these boats is relatively common.”
渔船上的暴力事件也非常普遍，而且正在恶化。斐济金枪鱼捕捞船船主协会主席格雷厄姆·索思威克(Graham Southwick)说，享受大额补贴的中国和台湾渔船正在积极扩展自己的势力范围。雷达技术的进步和对浮在海面上吸引鱼群的聚鱼设备越来越多的使用，进一步加剧了紧张氛围，因为它们容易导致渔民们在同一个地点聚集。“捕捞量减少，火气越来越大，人们开始打斗，” 索思威克说道。“在这些船上，谋杀并不稀奇。” 
The violent crime rate related to fishing boats is easily 20 times that of crimes involving tankers, cargo ships or passenger ships, said Charles N. Dragonette, who tracked seafaring attacks globally for the United States Office of Naval Intelligence until 2012. “So long as the victims were Indonesian, Malay, Vietnamese, Filipino, just not European or American, the story never resonated,” he said.
渔船上发生暴力犯罪的几率，是油轮、货船或客船发生犯罪事件几率的20多倍，查尔斯·N·德拉贡内特(Charles N. Dragonette)说道，在2012年之前他一直为美国海军情报局(Office of Naval Intelligence)追踪全球海上袭击事件。“如果受害者是印度尼西亚人、马来人、越南人、菲律宾人，是没关系的，只要不是欧洲人或美国人，袭击事件就不会引起什么反响，”他说。
Prosecutions for crimes at sea are rare — one former United States Coast Guard official put it at “less than 1 percent” — because many ships lack insurance and captains are averse to the delays and prying that can come with a police investigation. The few military and law enforcement ships that patrol international waters are usually forbidden from boarding ships flying another country’s flag unless given permission. Witnesses willing to speak up are scarce; so is physical evidence.
对海上犯罪行为提起的诉讼非常少见，一位前美国海岸警卫队军官认为其比例“不到1%”，因为很多船没有上保险，船长对配合警方调查而引起的各种延迟相当反感，也不愿意被问来问去。那些为数不多的在国际海域巡逻的军舰和执法船只，通常不能在未经允许的情况下登上插有别国国旗的船只。犯罪事件目击者很少愿意开口；物证也极为稀少。
Violence at sea and on land are handled differently, Mr. Dragonette said. “Ashore, no matter how brutal the repression or how corrupt the local government, someone will know who the victims are, where they were, that they did not return,” he said. “At sea, anonymity is the rule.”
德拉贡内特表示，海上暴力事件和陆地上的非常不同。“在岸上，不管压制得多狠，或当地政府有多腐败，总会有人知道受害人是谁，曾在哪里，以及他们没有返回，”他说。“但是在海上，匿名是通行法则。”
Pirates and Robbers
海盗和劫匪
The creaky wooden fishing boat strained to cut through eight-foot swells on a clear black night, as its captain, who goes only by the name Rio, spread out a regional map.
在一个月朗星稀的晚上，一艘嘎嘎作响的木质渔船正尽力在8英尺（约合2.4米）高的海浪中穿行，船上被称作里奥(Rio)的船长展开一张区域海图。
Headed north, about 50 miles from the Natuna Islands in the South China Sea he tapped his finger on his location, widened his eyes and contorted his face to register fear. Then, he silently reached over and opened a wheelhouse compartment revealing a Glock handgun.
船正在距离南海上的纳土纳群岛50英里（约合80公里）远的地方向北航行。里奥用手指敲了敲图上他所在的方位，睁大了眼睛，脸部也因恐惧略微扭曲。之后，他默默走过去，打开驾驶室的一个储物空间，取出一支格洛克手枪。
He had a good reason to be armed. The waters in this region, especially those near Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam, are among the most perilous in the world. More than 3,100 mariners were assaulted or kidnapped in the area last year, according to the Times database, consisting of more than 6,000 crime reports.
他把自己武装起来的理由相当充分。因为他所在的区域，尤其是靠近印度尼西亚、马来西亚和越南的水域，是全世界最危险的水域之一。《纽约时报》数据库的数据显示，去年有3100名海员在这一地区被袭击或绑架。这一数据库包含6000多起犯罪报道。
The database includes information provided by the Office of Naval Intelligence; two maritime security firms, OceanusLive and Risk Intelligence; and a research group called Oceans Beyond Piracy. No international agency comprehensively tracks maritime violence.
美国海军情报局为该数据库提供了一些信息。信息提供者还包括海上安全公司OceanusLive和风险智能(Risk Intelligence)，以及名为“海上无盗”(Oceans Beyond Piracy)的调研机构。目前没有一家国际机构在全面追踪海上暴力事件。
The death tolls in these attacks are murky because follow-up investigations are rare, police reports often lack details and bodies tend to disappear at sea. But maritime researchers estimated that hundreds of seafarers are killed annually in attacks. (They caution those numbers are likely to be undercounts because they do not include deaths close to shore or in some particularly dangerous areas where deaths are rarely reported to international authorities.)
有关这些袭击事件的死亡人数统计总是模糊的，因为很少有后续调查，警方的报告往往缺少细节，而受害人又容易被抛尸入海。但据海事研究者估计，每年会有数百名海员在袭击事件中丧生。（他们提醒说，这一数字有可能偏低，因为有些数据没被纳入统计，包括靠近海岸区域发生的死亡事件，或一些极为危险的区域发生的事件，很少有人向国际权威机构上报那里发生的死亡事件。）
Typical culprits included: rubber-skiff pirates armed with rocket-propelled grenades, night-stalking fuel thieves, hit-and-run bandits wielding machetes. But a variety of other actors appear too, and many of them are not as they initially seem: hijackers masquerading as marine police officers, human traffickers posing as fishermen, security guards moonlighting as arms dealers.
实施海上暴力的罪犯包括：包括开橡皮艇持火箭筒的海盗、晚上出没的盗油贼、打游击的持刀土匪。但是，还有很多各类其他人员也会行凶，其中很多人和他们的表面身份并不相符：比如乔装成海警的劫持者、扮作渔民的人口贩子和兼职做军火商的保安人员。
For instance, there were 10 Sri Lankan migrants, a group that included women and children, who were smuggled aboard a fishing boat in 2012 near the island nation. When their demands to set a new course for Australia were refused, the migrants attacked the crew, killing at least two men by throwing them overboard. Or the three captive Burmese workers who in 2009 escaped their Thai trawler in the South China Sea by leaping overboard, swimming to a nearby yacht, killing its owner and stealing his lifeboat.
例如，2012年，包括妇女和儿童在内的十名斯里兰卡移民，在该国附近海域登上蛇头的渔船，在要求改道去澳大利亚被拒绝以后，这些移民袭击了船员，将至少两名男子抛下了船，让他们淹死水中。再或者，2009年，三名被囚禁的缅甸劳工从南海上的一艘泰国拖网渔船逃脱，他们从渔船上跳下水后，游到了附近的一艘游艇上，杀死游艇的主人，偷走了游艇上的救生船。
The waters near Bangladesh illustrate why maritime violence frequently gets overlooked by the international community. In the past five years, nearly 100 sailors and fishermen have been killed annually in Bangladeshi waters — and as least as many taken hostage — in a string of attacks by armed gangs, according to local media and police reports.
孟加拉附近水域的情况可以说明，为什么海上暴力经常被国际社会忽略。据当地媒体和警方的消息，过去五年，这里每年都有近100名海员和渔民死于一系列武装团伙袭击事件，此外至少有同样数量的人们遭到劫持。
Armed assaults have been a problem there for two decades, according to insurance and maritime security analysts. In 2013, the Bangladeshi media reported the abduction of more than 700 fishermen, 150 in September alone. Forty were reported killed in a single episode, many of them with their feet and hands bound before being thrown overboard.
保险人员和海事安全分析师表示，武装袭击问题在这一地区已经存在了二十年。2013年，孟加拉媒体曾报道，有700多名渔民被绑架，单单九月份就有150人。报道显示，在一起暴力事件中，就有40人被杀害，很多是被绑着手脚扔下了船。
These attacks were usually conducted by the half-dozen armed gangs that operate protection rackets in the Bay of Bengal and the swampy inland waters called the Sundarbans. Last year, they engaged in gun battles with the Bangladesh Air Force and Coast Guard during government raids on coastal camps and hostage ships.
这些袭击事件通常是由在孟加拉湾和内陆沼泽区孙德尔本斯(Sundarbans)收保护费的武装团伙所为。去年，在该国政府对海岸营地和人质船只发起突袭时，这些武装团伙和孟加拉空军部队及海岸警卫队进行了数次枪战。
Bangladesh’s former foreign minister, Dr. Dipu Moni, reprimanded the international shipping industry and the foreign and local news media several years ago for defaming the country by describing its waters as a “high risk” zone for piracy.
几年前，孟加拉前外交部长迪普·穆尼博士(Dr. Dipu Moni)曾谴责国际航运业和国内外媒体诽谤孟加拉，将其水域称为海盗“高危”区。
“There has not been a single incident of piracy in years,” Dr. Moni said in a December 2011 written statement, adding that most of the violence off the nation’s coast involved petty theft and robberies, most often committed by “dacoits” (a term derived from the Hindu word for bandits).
穆尼博士在2011年12月的一份书面声明中表示，“这里已经好几年没有一起海盗袭击事件了。”她还表示，孟加拉水域发生的暴力事件大部分都是非常小的盗窃和抢劫行为，经常是由“持械匪徒”（dacoits，由印度语中的土匪一词演化而来）所为。
Those claims pivot on a legal distinction between piracy, which, under international law occurs on the high seas or in waters farther than 12 miles from shore, and robbery, which involves attacks closer to land.
这一论断的主要依据的是法律上对海盗行为和抢劫的区别定义。根据国际法的定义，前者发生于公海，或离岸12英里以外的水域；抢劫主要指更接近陆地范围内的袭击。
Insurance companies once charged $500 for each trip to and from the ports located in the west of India, but increased the rate to $150,000, given the area’s piracy-prone designation, a Bangladeshi foreign ministry official said during a separate news conference in December 2011. After Bangladeshi officials protested to the International Maritime Bureau, which tracks piracy at sea, that their country was stigmatized as a high-piracy zone, the group amended its website to say its warning covered piracy and armed robbery.
一名孟加拉外交部官员曾于2011年12月召开的另一个新闻发布会上表示，过去，针对来往于印度以西各个港口的船只，保险公司对每趟旅程收取500美元的保险费，但后来因这一地区被冠以海盗袭击高发区的名号，保险公司把每一趟的保险费增加到了15万美金。孟加拉官员曾向追踪海盗事件的国际海事局(International Maritime Bureau)提出抗议，反对它将孟加拉标为海盗袭击风险较高的区域，之后该机构将其网站上的表述改为，风险警告包括海盗行为和武装抢劫。
In an interview, Mukundan Pottengal, the director of the bureau, which is primarily funded by shipping companies and insurers, said his organization does not try to determine the exact location of attacks or whether they are in national or international waters, partly because these details are often contested by countries.
国际海事局主管穆昆丹·波顿戈尔(Mukundan Pottengal)表示，他们不会试图确定袭击的确切位置，或确认它们发生在国家领海还是国际水域，部分原因在于，各个国家常常就这些这些细节信息提出质疑。该机构的资金主要来自航运公司和保险公司。
“Whether they are called pirates or robbers is a legal distinction,” he said. “It does not change the nature of their act or the danger to the ship or crew when armed strangers get on board their ship.”
“把他们称为海盗还是劫匪，只是法律界定上的差别，”他说。“但这种差别不会改变这些行为的本质，只要是陌生的武装人员登上船只，都一样会给船和船员带来危险。”
On his fishing boat, Rio said that violence is just a part of life at sea. “You must be ready, always ready,” he said. For instance, he explained that larger, unlicensed fishing vessels in the area often plow through local fishermen’s nets, not just eliminating their catch, but destroying their livelihoods.
里奥在自己的渔船上说道，暴力就是海上生活的一部分。“你必须做好准备，时刻准备着，”他说。比如，在这一地区，体形更大的无照船只经常直接穿过当地渔民的渔网，不仅让他们损失捕获的渔产，还会毁掉他们的生计。
Making a hand gesture as though he was firing his gun in the air, Rio revved his engine, lurching the boat forward, showing how he charged at others in these situations.
里奥做了一个朝空中开枪的手势，然后加大渔船的马力，奋力往前行驶，展示他在这些情况下会如何向对方猛冲。
A wiry chain-smoker, Rio recounted the last time he used his gun. A year earlier, he said, he fired at a bigger ship that approached his boat late at night without permission. Rio said he then sped away, uncertain whether he had hit anyone on board.
里奥体型精瘦，是个烟瘾很大的人。他讲述了自己上一次开枪的经历。一年前的一个深夜，他看到一艘大船未经允许就向他的船靠近，于是朝它开了枪。之后他加速行驶，离开了那里，并不确定自己是否击中了船上的某个人。
Asked whether he reported the shooting to the police, Rio crinkled his face as if he did not understand. After several silent minutes, he asked: “Why would anyone report that?”
当被问到他后来是否向警方报告了这次开枪事件，里奥皱起了眉，好像不太明白。沉默了几分钟后，他问道，“有谁会上报这种事？”
Floating Armories
海上武器库
About 25 miles offshore from the United Arab Emirates in the Gulf of Oman, a half-dozen private security guards sat on the upper deck of the Resolution, a St. Kitts and Nevis-flagged floating armory. After the men traded war stories about past encounters with pirates, the conversation soon turned to a shared concern: the growing influx of untrained hires into the booming $13 billion-a-year security business.
在距离阿曼湾(Gulf of Oman)里的阿拉伯联合酋长国(United Arab Emirates)25英里的海面上，停泊着“决心”(Resolution)号，一艘插着圣基茨和尼维斯(St. Kitts and Nevis)国国旗的海上武器船。五六个私人保安坐在这艘船的上层甲板上。在互相讲述了自己过去和海盗交手的经历之后，他们的话题很快转向一种共同的担忧：在这个日益兴盛的价值130亿美元的安全服务行业中，正在不断涌入大量未经培训的新手。
“It’s like handing a bachelor a newborn,” one guard said, describing how some of the new recruits react when given a semiautomatic weapon. Many of the new hires lack combat experience, speak virtually no English (despite a fluency requirement), and do not know how to clean or fix their weapons, said the guards, most of whom spoke only on the condition of anonymity for fear they would be blacklisted from jobs. Some of the recruits show up to work carrying ammunition in Ziploc bags or shoe boxes.
“就像把新生儿递给一个单身汉，”一名保安说道，他在描述一些新招募的保安在面对半自动武器时的反应。很多新手缺乏实战经验，基本上不会说英语（尽管这一行业有相关要求），不知道如何清理和维修武器，保安们说道。他们大多数都要求在不具名的情况下接受采访，因为担心暴露身份会被列入招工黑名单。有些新手提着装在密封塑料袋和鞋盒里的武器前来工作。
The maritime security industry includes fewer fly-by-night companies today than it did several years ago, according to the guards. But the potential for mishandling attacks — with possibly deadly consequences — has increased over the past year or so, they argued, because the shipping industry has been cutting costs, shifting from four-man security teams to teams of two or three less experienced men.
保安们表示，如今在海上安全行业里，不可靠的公司比几年前少了。但他们认为，错误应对袭击的潜在危险在过去一年却增加了，有可能带来致命后果。因为航运业一直在削减开支，每艘船上的保安人员从四人减少为两三个不太有经验的人。
The 141-foot Resolution is among several dozen converted cargo ships, tugboats and demining barges that have been parked in high-risk areas of the Red Sea, Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean, usually just outside national waters. The guards pay as little as $25 per night to stay on the ship (the charge for carrying the men to and from client ships is often several thousand dollars), and check their weapons into a locked storage container upon arrival. Then they wait, sometimes for weeks, for their next job.
除了141英尺长的“决心”号，还有几十艘货船、拖船和排雷驳船进行了改装。它们停泊在红海、波斯湾和印度洋的高危海域里，通常就在刚刚驶出国家领海的地方。保安们只需缴纳每晚25美金的费用，就可以在船上住宿（而将他们送上客户船只或接回的费用往往是数千美元）。一上船他们就把武器锁在船上的储藏柜里。然后开始等待下一份工作，有时一等就是数周。
Somali piracy spurred many governments to encourage merchant vessels to arm themselves or hire private security, a break from the longstanding practice of nations having a near monopoly on the use of force. Meanwhile, growing terrorism concerns led port officials globally to impose tighter restrictions on weapons being carried into national waters. Floating armories emerged as a solution.
受索马里海盗的刺激，各国政府鼓励商船自我武装，或雇佣私人保安，打破了长久以来国家对武器使用权近乎垄断的局面。但与此同时，对恐怖主义的担忧日益增长，也使全球的港口官员对携武器进入国家领海区域的做法实行更严格的限制。海上武器船应运而生，成为解决海上武器供给的途径。
On the Resolution, security “team leaders,” most of them American, British or South African military veterans, explained what makes gun battles at sea so different from those on land.
在“决心”号上，保安“队长们”解释了海上枪战和陆地上有多么不同。他们大多数是来自美国、英国或南非的退伍军人。
“Between fight or flight,” said Cameron Mouat, a guard working for MNG Maritime, a British company that charters the Resolution. “Out here, there’s just fight.” There is no place to hide, no falling back, no air support, no ammunition drops, he said. Targets are almost always fast moving. Aim is usually wobbly because the ship constantly sways.
“陆地上你可以选择战斗或是逃跑，”英国MNG海事公司(MNG Maritime)的雇员卡梅伦·莫阿特(Cameron Mouat)说道，这家公司租了“决心”号。“在这里，你只能选择战斗。”无处可藏，无处可退，没有空中支援，也没有弹药补给，他说。目标几乎永远都在快速移动。因为船不停摇晃，也经常瞄不准。
Some ships are the equivalent of several football fields in length, too big, these guards contended, for a two- or three-man security detail to handle, especially when attackers arrive in multiple boats.
这些保安认为，有些船有几个足球场加起来那么长，船体过大，两三个保安难以应付整个船只的安保工作，尤其是在周围有好几艘船同时发动袭击的情况下。
Discerning threats is difficult. Semiautomatic weapons, formerly a pirates’ telltale sign, are now found on virtually all boats traversing dangerous waters, they said. Smugglers, with no intention of attacking, routinely nestle close to larger merchant ships to hide in their radar shadow and avoid being detected by coastal authorities. Fishing boats also sometimes tuck behind larger ships because they churn up sea-bottom sediment that attracts fish.
在海上，辨识威胁也比较困难。他们表示，半自动武器曾经是海盗船的标志，但现在几乎在每一艘穿越危险水域的船上都可以看到。没有攻击意图的走私贩经常将船藏身于更大的商船的背后，好躲避雷达追踪，避免被沿海当局发现。不少渔船有时也会紧跟在大船后面，因为大船搅动的海底沉积物会吸引鱼群觅食。
“The concern isn’t just whether a new guard will misjudge or panic and fire too soon,” explained a South African guard. “It’s also whether he will shoot soon enough.” If guards hesitate too long, he said, they miss the chance to take preventive measures that can help avoid fatal force, like firing warning shots, flares or water cannons, or incapacitating an approaching boat’s engine.
“让人担心的不仅在于，一个保安新手会不会因误判或太紧张而过早射击，”一位来自南非的保安说道。“还在于他能不能及时射击。”他表示，如果保安犹豫太久，就会错过采取预防措施的机会，比如发枪警告，用照明弹或高压水炮发出警告，或打坏正在靠近的船只的引擎，这些措施可以帮助避免发生致命的武力冲突。
The armories themselves can be crucibles of violence. Guards climbing off another floating armory, the Seapol One, pulled out their smartphones and showed pictures of the infested, cramped, trash-strewn cabins where eight men bunked.
武器船本身可能就是滋生暴力的地方。从另一艘这样的船“Seapol一号”上下来的安保人员拿出智能手机，展示了蚊虫滋生、拥挤不堪、垃圾遍地的船舱的图片。每个船舱住着八个人。
Like most floating armories, the Seapol One, run by the Sri Lankan firm Avant Garde Maritime Services, had no armed security of its own to police its guests or protect against pirates who might seek to commandeer the arsenal. Most coastal nations oppose the armories, though they can do little to stop them since they are situated in international waters.
像大多数海上武器船一样，由斯里兰卡公司先锋海事服务公司(Avant Garde Maritime Services)运营的“Seapol一号”没有自己的武装安全人员，不能在其客户中维持秩序，也无法防止海盗控制武器船。大多数沿海国家都反对武器船的存在，但因为它们停泊在国际海域，这些国家对此无能为力。
None of the guards interviewed knew of any fatal clashes on the armories. But there was no shortage of friction, they said. A Latvian guard, weighing more than 300 pounds and well over six feet tall, relieved himself in the shower because he could not fit in the bathroom stalls. Confronted by other guards, he refused to clean it up.
接受采访的保安都没听说过武器库上发生过什么致命冲突。但他们表示，这里不乏各类摩擦。一名体重300多磅（超过140公斤）、身高远超六英尺（约合1.83米）的拉脱维亚保安，因进不去厕所隔间，而在淋浴间里大小便。被其他保安发现以后，他拒绝清理自己秽物。
Several days earlier a heated argument erupted between two South African guards and their team leader. Unpaid for nearly a month, the men had been abandoned by their security company and left on the Seapol with no way to get back to port.
几天前，两名南非保安和自己的队长发生了激烈争执。他们已经一个月没领到工资，被自己所在的保安公司抛弃了，滞留在“Seapol一号”上，无法返回港口。
Kevin Thompson, a British guard, described intense boredom and isolation, which some guards relieved with occasional drinks of forbidden alcohol or by lifting weights, assisted by steroids. Describing the armories, he said, “They’re basically psychological pressure cookers.”
英国保安凯文·汤普森(Kevin Thompson)描述了船上生活的极度无聊与隔绝，有些保安会通过偶尔喝点酒来缓解，而这在行业里是不允许的，也有一些通过锻炼肌肉来解闷，用类固醇类激素辅助。在描述武器船时，他说，“它们基本上就是一个个心理高压锅。”
Unsolved Killings
未解死亡事件
The video of the killing of the four men speaks to a survival-of-the-fittest brutality common at sea, according to a dozen security experts who reviewed the footage. They speculated that one gunman, quite likely a private security guard, did all the shooting, using a semiautomatic weapon. And, they said, the four ships at the scene were probably associated with one another, perhaps by shared ownership. “You don’t rob a bank in mixed company,” one former United States Coast Guard official explained.
至于开头提到的有四人被杀害的视频片段，十多位观看了视频的安全专家表示，它说明在海上有一种普遍存在的适者生存的残酷法则。他们猜测，这起屠杀是由一名持半自动武器的枪手一人完成的，很可能是一名私人保安。他们还表示，视频中出现的四艘船或许相互有关联，有可能归属同一公司。“你不会以混合团伙的形式抢银行。”一名前美国海岸警卫队官员解释道。
Last summer, the police in the Fijian capital of Suva closed their investigation into the shootings. They reasoned that the incident did not occur in their national waters, nor did it involve their vessels. Since no Fijian mariners had been reported missing, they concluded none of their citizens were among the victims.
去年夏天，斐济首都苏瓦的警方结束了对这宗枪击案的调查。他们给出的理由是，此事并未发生在斐济海域，也不涉及该国船只。而且没有斐济海员被上报失踪，他们也就得出了未有本国公民遇害的结论。
When governments investigate incidents like this, their goal is typically not to find the culprit, said Glen Forbes from OceanusLive, the maritime risk firm. “It’s to clear their name.”
海上风险公司OceanusLive的格伦·福布斯(Glen Forbes)表示，当政府调查此类事件时，目标往往不是找到凶手，“而是卸脱自身的干系。”
The video, which includes people speaking Chinese, Indonesian and Vietnamese languages, shows three large vessels circling the floating men. A banner that says “Safety is No. 1” in Chinese hangs in the background on the deck of one of the ships. A fourth vessel, which maritime records indicate is a 725-ton Taiwanese-owned tuna longliner called Chun I 217, passes by in the background.
视频里出现了操汉语、印尼语和越南语的人，画面显示三艘大型船只围着那几名飘浮的男性遇害者转。背景中，一条船的甲板上悬挂着中文的“安全第一”条幅。画面远处，另有一艘船经过。海事纪录显示，这是725吨的台湾鲔鱼延绳捕捞船“春亿217号”。
Lin Yu-chih, the owner of the Chun I 217, which remains at sea, said that he did not know whether any of the more than a dozen other ships he owns or operates were present when the men were shot. “Our captain left as soon as possible,” Mr. Lin said, referring to the shooting scene.
春亿217号目前仍在海上。船东林有志（Lin Yu-chih，音）表示，他并不清楚自己拥有或运营的十几艘船当中是否还有其他的船在案发时经过。谈到枪击现场时，林先生说，“我们船长赶紧离开了。”
Though the date of the shooting is unknown, he said that he believed it occurred in 2013 in the Indian Ocean, where the Chun I 217 has been sailing for the last five years.
尽管枪击案发生的具体日期不明，但他表示自己认为是在2013年的印度洋上。过去五年里，春亿217号一直在印度洋上航行。
Mr. Lin declined to release any details about the crew of the Chun I 217 or the report he said he asked the captain to write about the killings after the Taiwan police contacted his company. Mr. Lin, a board member of the Taiwanese tuna longliners association, said the private security guards on his ships were provided by a Sri Lankan company, which he declined to name. The Taiwan prosecutor’s office, which is looking into the matter, declined to comment.
林先生拒绝公布有关春亿217号船员的任何详细信息。台湾警方曾联络他的公司，而他表示自己随后要求船长撰写了一份有关此事的报告，不过他也不愿透露其中的细节。林先生是台湾鲔延绳钓协会的理事。他表示，旗下船只上的私人保安来自斯里兰卡的一家公司，但他不肯说出具体的公司名。正在调查此事的台湾检察署也拒绝置评。
With one of world’s largest tuna fleets, Taiwan’s fishing industry is among the nation’s biggest employers and most politically powerful sectors.
台湾拥有的鲔鱼捕捞船队的规模位居世界前列，因而渔业是该地就业人数最多、政治影响力最大的行业之一。
Two Taiwanese fishing officials later said that the company authorized to put private security guards on Taiwanese ships was Avant Garde Maritime Services, the same business that runs the Seapol One, the armory in the Gulf of Oman. The company declined to answer questions about its guards or its floating armories.
台湾的两名渔业官员后来表示，获得授权在这些台湾船只上进行安保工作的企业叫做先锋海事服务公司，恰好就是在阿曼湾经营海上武器船“Seapol一号”的那家公司。该企业拒绝回答有关旗下保安或海上武器船的问题。
Tzu-Yaw Tsay, the director of the Taiwanese fisheries agency, declined during an interview to release the Chun I 217’s crew list or captain’s name. He suggested, though, that the men in the water were most likely pirates who had been rebuffed.
台湾渔业署署长蔡日耀(Tzu-Yaw Tsay)接受采访时不愿透露春亿217号船员的名单或船长的姓名。不过，他表示水中的那些人很可能是行凶未遂的海盗。
“We don’t know what happened,” Mr. Tsay then acknowledged. “So there’s no way for us to say whether it’s legal.”
“我们不知道发生了什么，” 蔡署长随后承认。“所以我们也没办法说是不是合法。”