Ashlei Temeña’s family trip to Disneyland last Thanksgiving break turned into a nightmare when her smartphone battery hit empty.
因为智能手机没电了，阿什莱·特米纳(Ashlei Temeña)一家上个感恩节的迪斯尼乐园之旅变成了噩梦。
Ms. Temeña, a San Francisco support technician, had gotten separated from her family and realized she had no way to find anyone. Instead of riding roller coasters, she wandered around searching for the group — eventually locating them four hours later watching fireworks.
特米纳是一位旧金山的技术支持工程师，她在旅途中和家人走散后，发现没有办法找到他们了。她没有坐过山车，而是到处寻找家人，后来过了四个小时，看烟火的时候才找到他们。
“I wanted to throw my phone on the ground by the end of the day,” Ms. Temeña said.
“那天到最后我真想把手机往地上摔，”特米纳说。
Many consumers can relate. Despite the leaps forward in mobile phone technology with crisp, clear screens and faster chips, batteries have made only sluggish progress. That has propelled a desire for longer battery life to the top of the list of factors considered by consumers when they purchase smartphones, according to a 2014 survey by the research firm IDC.
很多消费者都会有同感。尽管手机技术的飞跃带来了清晰的显示屏和快速的芯片，电池仍然是唯一的滞后环节。因此，根据调查公司IDC于2014年进行的一项调查，“电池续航更长”成了消费者购买智能手机时的首要因素之一。
So why is battery technology still underwhelming? Plenty of companies have been developing smarter battery technology for years, including methods to increase battery capacity tenfold or charge devices by pulling energy from the air. But lithium ion, the technology that most mainstream batteries are based on, is low cost and easily reproducible while being safe — so we’ll be stuck with it for the foreseeable future, said Charlie Quong, an executive at Mophie, a battery accessory maker, in an interview.
电池技术的发展为何仍然普通？很多公司都已多年开发智能电池技术，包括将电池容量增加十倍的方法，或者从空气中吸取能量的充电设备等。但是目前主流的电池都是锂电池，它成本较低、容易降解，而且安全，所以我们在可预测的未来还将使用它，电池配件制造商Mophie公司的一位高管查理·奎昂(Charlie Quong)在接受采访时说。
“There’s a lot of investments on all fronts for improving the technology above and beyond that, but I don’t think we’re going to see that hitting any kind of mass market for several years out,” Mr. Quong said. In general, lithium ion improves about 10 percent a year in terms of the amount of energy that can be stored in a given space, which is partly why consumers perceive batteries as being far behind other technologies.
“在电池技术前沿已经有过不少投资，但我认为，新技术几年内不会大规模投放市场，”奎昂说。总的来说，锂电池技术的进步保持在一年可以增加10%的固定空间蓄电量水平，所以消费者觉得电池技术的进步远比其他技术进步要慢。
With that backdrop in mind, we teamed up with the Wirecutter, a product recommendations website, to run an array of tests to determine best and worst practices for preserving battery life on smartphones. For those who still need extra juice, the Wirecutter also picked some external battery products.
了解了这个背景，我们与产品推荐网站the Wirecutter联系，做了一系列实验，找到为智能手机省电的最好办法。对于希望额外电量的人，Wirecutter还提供了一些充电宝类的产品。
The results showed that some conventional beliefs about extending battery life — like turning off Wi-Fi or shutting down all your phone’s apps — produced negligible or even harmful results. The Wirecutter also found plenty of helpful practices to get more use out of your battery, like playing music stored directly on the device (instead of streaming it) or tweaking email configurations.
实验结果表明，某些传统的省电方式――诸如关闭Wi-Fi或关闭手机应用――被证明没有用处，甚至是有害的。Wirecutter还发现了很多有用的做法，可以更经济地使用电池，比如把音乐直接存储在设备里（不要用流媒体收听）或优化邮件设置。
The Wirecutter tested a range of recent Apple and Android smartphones with the latest operating systems in tightly controlled environments. Your phone’s results will vary depending on the phone model, cellular carrier, location and other factors, but the general results should hold. Here are eight tips and seven myths busted by our findings:
Wirecutter在严格控制的环境下测试了一系列安装了最新操作系统的最新版本苹果手机和安卓智能手机。在你的手机上使用效果如何，可能取决于手机型号、手机运营商、位置与其他因素，但是大致结果应当是不变的。下面是我们发现的8条省电小贴士与7条被证明错误的说法：
1. Use auto-brightness for the screen.
1.使用屏幕自动亮度调节
A smartphone’s screen consumes more energy than any other component, so the easiest way to cut down battery drain is to reduce your screen brightness. In an hourlong test, an iPhone 6s used 54 percent less battery power with the screen brightness at minimum as compared with maximum brightness. An Android test phone used 30 percent less.
智能手机的屏幕是所有元件里最耗电的，所以降低屏幕亮度是降低电池损耗的最简单的办法。在一个为时一小时的测试里，一台把屏幕调到最暗的iPhone 6S手机要比把亮度调到最亮的手机节省54%的电量。在安卓手机测试里，能节省30%电量。
But it’s tough to use a dim screen in bright environments, so most phones offer an auto-brightness mode that automatically adjusts the screen’s brightness based on ambient light. The Wirecutter found that enabling auto-brightness saved a good amount of battery life.
但是在明亮的环境下使用昏暗的屏幕是非常难受的，所以大多数手机都提供自动亮度调节模式，可以根据周围环境的亮度自动调节屏幕亮度。Wirecutter发现，开启自动亮度调节能够节省大量电量。
2. Block power-sucking ads.
2. 屏蔽耗电的广告
When browsing the web, your smartphone also burns through power when it downloads mobile ads on websites. Installing an ad blocker will greatly extend battery life.
浏览网页时，你的智能手机会下载网页上的移动广告，这样会耗费大量电量。安装广告屏蔽应用可以延长大大延长电池使用时间。
The Wirecutter ran a test that cycled through a list of websites for two hours over a Wi-Fi connection. Safari on an iPhone 6s used 18 percent of a full battery; Chrome on a Moto X Pure Android phone used 22 percent. Installing the 1Blocker ad blocker on the iPhone reduced battery usage for the same test to only 9 percent of a full battery; on an Android phone, using the Ghostery Privacy Browser, which blocks ads, used only 8 percent of the battery.
Wirecutter在连接Wi-Fi的情况下，用2小时浏览了若干网站。iPhone 6s上的Safari浏览器使用了18%的电量；安卓手机Moto X Pure上的Chrome浏览器使用了22%的电量。iPhone手机上安装了广告屏蔽应用 1Blocker 后，以同样时间浏览同样网页，电池使用量降低到9%；在安卓手机上安装了屏蔽广告的Ghostery Privacy Browser浏览器之后，同样情况下只用了8%的电池电量。
3. Tweak your email settings.
3. 优化邮件设置
Email can have a major impact on battery life if you have multiple email accounts and receive lots of email. Your smartphone can update your email automatically using a technology called push, which brings new messages to your phone the instant they are transmitted. Push can be a power hog because it requires your phone to constantly listen for new messages, so if you get a lot of email, there’s a good chance your phone is using lots of energy.
如果你拥有好几个邮件账号，并且收发大量邮件，电子邮件对电池使用时间会有很大影响。你的智能手机会使用推送技术自动更新邮箱情况，一旦收到邮件就立刻在你的手机上显示新信息。推送可以成为耗电大户，因为它需要你的手机一直接收新消息，所以如果你有很多电子邮件，你的手机就会耗很多电。
The Wirecutter tested an iPhone 6s Plus configured with three email accounts, receiving a total of 20 to 30 messages an hour. In these tests, having push active over the course of a day caused Mail to account for 5 to 10 percent of the phone’s overall battery use.
Wirecutter测试了一台有三个电子邮件账户，每小时收20到30个邮件的iPhone 6s Plus手机。在这个测试中，如果打开推送，每天会令邮箱多耗5%到10%的电池电能。
To save energy, most phones can be configured to instead check for (or “fetch”) emails on a schedule — say, every 30 minutes — or only when you manually tell your email app to refresh.
为了节省电能，大多数手机都可以设置定时检查（或“获取”）邮件，比如每30分钟获取一次，或者手动更新。
4. Play downloaded music instead of streaming.
4. 播放下载音乐，而不是使用流媒体收听
The next tip may come as unwelcome news. Nowadays, online streaming is the most popular way to listen to music, with services like Spotify, Pandora and Apple Music — but this method guzzles lots of battery power. In the Wirecutter’s tests, streaming music over a Wi-Fi connection for two hours used 10 percent of an iPhone’s battery reserves; streaming the same music stored directly on a device over two hours consumed only 5 percent.
这条提示可能不怎么受欢迎。如今，使用Spotify、Pandora和Apple Music等在线流媒体是最受欢迎的听音乐方式，不过，这种方式也损耗不少电能。根据Wirecutter的测试，Wi-Fi模式下，用流媒体方式收听2小时音乐，会用掉iPhone电池的10%；而在同等情况下使用下载方式收听，只使用5%。
Fortunately, streaming services like Spotify and Apple Music still let you listen to songs the old-school way: by storing the music right on your device.
幸运的是，Spotify和Apple Music 都允许你以传统方式收听音乐——把歌曲下载到设备里。
5. Turn off wireless when reception is poor.
5. 信号弱的时候关闭无线网络
You may have noticed that when you’re in a place without good Wi-Fi or cellular coverage, your phone’s battery seems to drain much more quickly. That’s because the phone uses energy searching for a good signal and, if the signal is very weak, trying to get a better connection.
你可能注意到了，在Wi-Fi或蜂窝网络覆盖不好的地方，手机电量耗得特别快。这是因为手机会使用电能寻找耗得信号，如果信号特别弱，还要试着更好地去连接。
To conserve battery life, disable the phone’s wireless circuitry. Airplane Mode, an option that will turn off all wireless features, is a quick and easy solution in areas with poor reception.
为了省电，可以关闭手机的无线电路。使用飞行模式可以关闭所有无线连接，在网络不好的地方，这是最便捷、最省事的解决方案。
Alternatively, you can disable (in your phone’s settings) a single wireless feature. For example, if you have terrible wireless carrier coverage in your office, but Wi-Fi is great, disabling cellular connectivity while there will keep the phone from wasting energy trying to get a cellular connection while still letting you connect to the Internet over Wi-Fi.
此外，你也可以尝试在手机设置里设置单一无线连接方式。比如，如果你的办公室里无线载波覆盖不好，但是Wi-Fi很好，那就关闭蜂窝连接，不让手机费电去连接蜂窝网络，只用Wi-Fi联网。
6. Check the battery usage lists.
6. 检查电池用量清单
Consumers can get even better results with a bit of sleuthing. Both the iPhone and Android systems provide a simple way to see which apps are using a lot of battery power. For iPhones and Android phones, open the Settings app and in the Battery menu, there are sorted lists of apps that are using the most energy.
消费者只需做一点调查，就能得到更好的体验。iPhone和安卓系统都有简便的方法，可以看到什么应用耗费了大量电量。打开“设置”的“电池”菜单，就可以看到各个应用使用电量的列表。
On the iPhone’s battery usage screen, tap the clock button to reveal information about how much of your battery life each app is consuming when you’re actively using the app (“screen”) compared with when you’re not (“backgd”). On Android, the most useful information are the timers for “CPU total” and “CPU foreground.” Foreground is how much time you had the app open; subtract “foreground” from “total,” and you’ll know how much time the app has been busy in the background.
在iPhone手机里，点击列表旁边的时钟，就可以显示出电池使用时的耗电量（“前台工作”）和不使用时的耗电量（“后台工作”）。在安卓手机里，最有用的信息是“CPU总量”和“CPU前台”的计时。前台计时是你打开这个应用的时间，用“总量”减去“前台”，就可以知道这个应用在后台耗费了多少电量。
Be on the lookout for apps that are active for extended periods in the background and are using a lot of battery power. Examples include an email app that spends lots of time checking for new messages even when your phone is asleep, a news reader that updates articles in the background or a fitness app that constantly monitors your location.
要注意那些在后台工作了很长时间，耗费大量电量的应用。比如某个邮件应用，在你的手机处于睡眠状态时，还花了很多时间检查新信息、某个新闻阅读应用在后台下载了大量文章，或是某个健康应用经常在监测你的位置。
If you find apps using up lots of energy in the background, disable their background activities. On an iPhone, go to the Settings app, tap General and then Background App Refresh and disable the background activities for any apps. On Android, go inside the Settings app, tap Data Usage, choose an app, then select “Restrict Background Data” for background data usage.
如果你发现某个应用在后台使用了大量电量，那就禁用它的后台活动。在iPhone上，可以打开“设置”，点击“通用”，再点击“后台应用刷新”，禁用这个应用的后台活动。在安卓系统下，可以进入“设置”，点击“数据使用”，选中这个应用，之后选择“限制后台数据”，就可以限制后台数据的使用了。
7. Disable unnecessary location tracking.
7. 禁用无必要的定位跟踪
Watch out for apps that track your location. Your phone’s GPS circuitry, which determines your geographic location for mapping and fitness features, consumes a lot of battery power. A run-tracking program that monitors your precise location for the duration of an hourlong run will lower your battery level.
当心那些追踪你位置的应用。你手机上的GPS系统会为地图类和健康类应用追踪你的地理位置，从而耗费大量电能。如果你慢跑1小时，跑步追踪应用会随时检测你的准确地理位置，损耗不少电能。
If a location-based app is using a lot of power, especially in the background, there’s a good chance the app is using GPS, Wi-Fi and the phone’s sensors frequently. You can decide whether to disable location features for it (either via your phone’s Location Services settings, or by changing settings in the app itself). On an iPhone, you can disable the app’s ability to track your location by going to Privacy menu and Location Services.
如果一个和地点有关应用使用了大量电能，特别是在后台使用的时候，很可能是它经常使用GPS系统、Wi-Fi以及手机的感应器。你可以自己决定是不是要关闭它的定位功能（可以通过手机的定位服务设置来关闭，也可以通过这个应用本身来关闭）。在iPhone手机上，还可以在“隐私”菜单中的“定位服务”一项来关闭应用的定位跟踪功能。
To disable location tracking on Android, go inside the Settings app, tap Apps, choose an app and select “Permissions,” then tap to disable Location permission.
在安卓手机上，要关闭定位跟踪系统，可以进入“设置”，点击“应用”，选中要关闭的应用，选择“权限”，之后选择关闭定位权限。
8. Shut off unnecessary push notifications.
8. 关闭不必要的推送通知
Both Apple and Google recommend disabling push notifications, which are essentially app alerts, to conserve battery life. Notifications require regular communication with notification servers, and each notification causes your phone to wake up for a few seconds, including turning on the screen, to show you a message and give you a chance to act on it.
为了节省电能，苹果和谷歌都建议关闭推送通知，特别是那些应用的通知。要接收这些通知，需要经常与发送通知的服务器通讯，每条通知都会令你的手机从睡眠状态中醒过来几秒钟，屏幕会亮起来，给你显示一条消息，让你做出回应。
In the Wirecutter’s testing, receiving a few dozen notifications over the course of an hour didn’t noticeably affect battery usage. But if you get a lot of notifications each day, that energy use can add up. If a particular app or service (say, Twitter or your email client) is constantly producing notifications, consider disabling notifications for that app.
根据Wirecutter的测试，在一小时内接收几十条通知不会明显影响电池用量。但是如果你每天都要接收大量推送通知，累计的电量就相当可观。如果某个应用或服务（比如Twitter或你的邮件客户端）经常制造通知，那就考虑关闭这个应用的通知吧。
On an iPhone, open the Settings app, tap Notifications, tap the app name and disable Allow Notifications. On Android, disable notification in an app’s settings menu, or long-press the notification itself and select the “i” icon. This will send you to that app’s App Notifications settings, where you can block all notifications.
在iPhone手机中，打开“设置”，点击“通知”，点击这个应用的名字，关闭“允许通知”。在安卓系统中，可以在该应用的设置菜单里关闭通知，或者长按这个通知，并选择上面的“i”图标。它会带你进入这个应用的“应用通知”设置，你可以在这个菜单里关闭所有通知。
Beware battery-saving myths.
当心那些关于节省电能的错误说法：
1. Closing unused apps.
1. 关闭不常使用的应用程序
There is plenty of inaccurate conventional wisdom about methods to prolong battery life. Let’s start with one of the worst “tips”: Closing (or force-quitting, as it’s commonly called) apps you are not currently using. The theory is that apps running in the background are using your phone’s components, so quitting them will save energy.
关于延长电池使用时间，有很多不准确的传统观点。就从最糟的这条“小贴士”开始吧：关闭（或者所谓“强制退出”）你不经常使用的应用。这个贴士的理由是，在后台运行的应用使用了手机的元件，所以关闭它们可以省电。
While that may be true on a computer, smartphones are designed differently: Once an app is no longer in the foreground — meaning you are not actively using it — most or all of its processes are frozen. In other words, while an app may still be loaded in a phone’s memory, it probably is not doing much in the background to drain your battery.
这或许适用于电脑，但智能手机的设计原理是不同的：应用一旦不在前台运行，也就是说你并没有使用它的时候，它的全部或绝大部分运行是冻结的。换言之，这个应用或许还在手机的内存里，但它在后台却不会使用电池电能。
Finally, quitting apps actually has drawbacks: When you force-quit an app, all of its code can be purged from your phone’s RAM, which means that the next time you open the app, the phone has to reload all of that code. That, of course, requires energy.
最后，退出应用其实是有害处的：强制退出应用的时候，它的代码会从手机的RAM中清除，也就是说，下次你再运行这个应用的时候，电脑要重新加载所有代码。这当然需要耗费电能。
2. Don’t assume turning off Wi-Fi will always help.
2. 关闭Wi-Fi不总是有用
A common suggestion for extending battery life is to disable Wi-Fi. However, if you’re in range of a strong Wi-Fi signal, your phone uses less energy to connect to the Internet with a Wi-Fi connection than a cellular one. If you regularly use apps that rely on your location, having Wi-Fi enabled helps your phone determine its location without having to rely solely on power-hungry GPS features, so it actually helps a battery last longer.
一个关于省电的常见建议是关闭Wi-Fi。然而，如果你所在的地方Wi-Fi信号很强，相比蜂窝网络连接，手机使用Wi-Fi就可以用很少的电量连上网络。如果你经常使用和位置有关的应用，打开Wi-Fi就可以让手机检测到自己的位置，而不是仅仅依赖非常耗电的GPS功能，所以这对省电也有帮助。
An exception is when you’re at the edges of a Wi-Fi network, where your phone is struggling to get a good connection, and you have a good cellular data connection. But in most cases, you’re usually better off keeping Wi-Fi enabled.
不过，如果你正处于Wi-Fi网络覆盖的边缘，手机努力想得到更好的连接，而且此时蜂窝网络数据连接良好，这种情况下例外。但是在大多数情况下，最好还是让Wi-Fi开着。
3. Avoid disabling all location services.
3. 不要禁用所有位置服务
Many apps that use your location do so only intermittently. Even using the Maps app for short navigation sessions doesn’t use more than a few percent of your battery’s capacity — and having the phone’s screen continually on is a big part of why navigation uses a lot of power.
很多应用都只是间歇获取你的位置。就算使用地图应用做短期导航，也不会耗费很多电能——让手机屏幕一直亮着才是导航功能费电的原因。
In other words, don’t disable all of your phone’s location-based features just to extend your battery life. You won’t see a big jump in use time, but you may end up disabling — and subsequently missing — useful features. Instead, check (using the tips above) to see if any of apps consuming the most battery life also track your location. If so, and if you don’t need that location tracking, consider disabling it for those apps.
换言之，不必为了省电禁用手机里所有和位置有关的应用。这样不会大量增加使用时间，但却会让你错过很多有用的功能。你可以根据上文的提示，检查哪些耗电最多的应用在使用定位功能。如果你不需要它的定位功能，就可以关掉。
4. Don’t always choose Wi-Fi over cellular.
4. 不要总是选择Wi-Fi而非蜂窝网络
Many people, and even smartphone vendors such as Apple, claim that using Wi-Fi for wireless data consumes less power than using a cellular signal, so you should use Wi-Fi whenever you can. However, the Wirecutter’s testing found this isn’t always the case.
很多人，甚至包括苹果智能手机的零售商，都说使用Wi-Fi作为无线连接会比使用蜂窝网络信号省电，所以你应该尽可能使用Wi-Fi。不过，Wirecutter的测试发现这并不总是行得通。
In testing in a location where both Wi-Fi and cellular LTE signals were strong, an hour of browsing over Wi-Fi used roughly the same amount of battery power as an hour using LTE on an iPhone. On a Motorola Android phone, LTE used only 2 to 3 percent more power than Wi-Fi.
在Wi-Fi信号和蜂窝网络LTE信号同样强的情况下，使用iPhone手机测试，使用Wi-Fi浏览网页1小时所耗费的电能与使用LTE是一样的。在使用安卓系统的摩托罗拉手机上，LTE只比Wi-Fi多耗费2%到3%的电能。
In other words, as long as you have a good signal, you probably won’t see a huge difference between Wi-Fi and cellular data, and it’s probably not worth the hassle of switching between the two.
换言之，只要信号良好，Wi-Fi和蜂窝移动数据没什么区别，不值得费力在二者之间切换。
5. Let Siri and Google listen for your commands.
5. 使用Siri和Google听你的指令
Both iPhones and Android phones include a hands-free feature for summoning their virtual assistants by speaking voice commands. You can just say “Hey Siri” to the iPhone or “O.K. Google” and then speak your request or command. While convenient, this feature requires your phone to constantly listen for that special phrase, which uses some power.
iPhone和安卓手机都有免手动操作功能，可以通过语音指令，同它们的虚拟助手说话。你可以对iPhone手机说“Hey Siri”或者说“O.K. Google”，然后说出你的指令。这虽然方便，但这个功能需要你的手机经常收听这句特别的指令，也需要使用一些电能。
Yet if you have one of the phones that supports this feature, disabling it won’t conserve much battery life. In the Wirecutter’s testing with an iPhone 6s Plus and a Nexus 6P, there was a negligible difference in battery usage between having the always-on virtual assistant enabled or disabled over a two-hour period.
然而如果你的手机支持这种功能，那么禁用它也省不了多少电。Wirecutter使用iPhone 6s Plus和Nexus 6P进行测试，发现在两个小时时间内，开启虚拟助手和禁用虚拟助手，所费电量相差无几。
Using Siri or O.K. Google uses some energy, so if your phone’s battery is getting low, you should probably stop asking the phone question after question during your commute. But just having the feature enabled isn’t worth worrying about — and it can be quite convenient.
使用Siri 或O.K. Google会使用一些电能，所以，如果手机电池电量很低了，你可以暂时停止对手机一个接一个地发问。但是开启这个功能本身没什么值得担心的，而且这个功能确实很方便。
6. Don’t forgo third-party chargers made by reputable vendors.
6. 不必放弃可靠厂家生产的第三方充电器
A common warning around the Internet is that you should use only the charger that came with your phone, otherwise you could damage your phone’s battery. In reality, the phone itself contains all the circuitry responsible for charging its battery. The AC adapter (as it’s more accurately known) simply converts the AC current from a wall outlet into low-voltage, low-amperage DC current that it provides via a USB port. This is why you can also charge your phone using the USB port on a computer, a USB battery pack or a charger in your car — the phone is designed to allow it to charge from a variety of power sources that can produce a wide range of current.
网上有个常见的警告，是说你一定要使用和手机配套的原厂充电器，否则会对手机电池有所损害。事实上，手机本身带有所有负责充电的线路。AC适配器（这是交流电源更准确的说法）只是把来自墙上插口的交流电转化为低伏特、低安培的直流电源，并通过USB接口充入手机。所以你也可以通过USB接口连接电脑、USB充电宝或车载电池给手机充电，手机的设计就是要允许各种电能来源都能为它充电的。
Finally, you may see warnings that a cheap third-party charger could damage your phone. There’s some truth here: Many chargers — especially budget models sold online, or even at your local shopping mall kiosk — are poorly made, or use low-quality components. A poorly made charger can not only damage your phone, but could also hurt you by exposing you to dangerous currents. So if you’re replacing your phone’s AC adapter, or buying an extra, stick with a reputable vendor.
最后，有人可能警告过你，便宜的第三方充电器会毁掉你的手机。这有部分是真的：很多充电器——特别是在网上出售的便宜样机，甚至是本地购物中心小摊里卖的充电器——做工很糟，或者使用质量低劣的元件。质量差的充电器不仅会弄坏你的手机，而且还会漏电，让你受伤。所以如果要更换充电器，或多买一个备用，一定要选择可靠的生产厂家。
7. Calibrate only occasionally.
7. 偶尔校准电池就够了
For many years, devices that used rechargeable batteries required “conditioning” or “calibrating,” a procedure that prevented the battery from forgetting how much capacity it actually had. Today’s smartphone batteries no longer suffer from this issue.
多年来，使用充电电池的设备都需要“调整”或“校准”，这个步骤可以防止电池忘记自己实际上有多大充电电量。如今的智能手机电池已经没有这个问题了。
What can happen, however, is that the phone itself loses track of how much capacity its battery has: Every battery gradually loses capacity over time as you use and recharge it, and the phone’s software isn’t always good at accounting for this capacity change. By periodically (once every couple of months) fully charging the phone and then using it until it dies, your phone’s software will determine the battery’s current capacity and thus let the phone better estimate how long it will last on a charge. In other words, the battery won’t last any longer, but the phone’s battery meter will be more accurate. If you find that your phone claims you have 80 percent of a charge left, but it dies a few hours later, you should try this procedure.
然而有可能发生的问题是，手机会不去追踪电池的充电量：随着使用与充电，所有电池都会渐渐损失充电量，手机软件并不总能计算出这种充电量的变化。每隔几个月给手机充满电，一直使用到电池耗尽，你的手机软件就可以检测出电池当前的充电量，让手机更好地估计手机还剩多少使用时间。换言之。电池的寿命不是永久的，但是手机的电池测量系统是可以更准确的。如果你发现你的手机显示还有80%电量，但是一会儿就用完了，你可能需要尝试这个步骤。
If all else fails …
如果这些都没用……
If you have tried all the above and still struggle to get through the day with your battery, consider buying an external battery. These accessories — which can take the form of a bulky case with a built-in battery that you wear on the phone, or a separate battery pack that connects to your phone with a cable — can provide power to last an additional few hours at the end of the day, or even to fully charge your phone’s battery.
如果上面这些办法你都试过了，每天的电量还是不够，那就多买一块电池吧。你可以买内置式电池，也可以买充电宝，这样一天到了最后电池还能多用几个小时，甚至还能把电池充满呢。
The Wirecutter tested more than 100 external batteries for dozens of hours to pick a few favorites. Its favorite battery case for the iPhone 6 and 6s is Anker’s Ultra Slim Extended Battery Case, which has enough power to fully charge a dead iPhone and then some, more than doubling the phone’s battery life. For larger iPhones — the 6 Plus and 6s Plus — the Wirecutter prefers Tylt’s Energi Sliding Power Case because the case’s two-piece design makes it appealing.
Wirecutter测试了100多种充电宝，为手机充电几十小时，选出了几个最佳品牌。iPhone 6和6s的最佳充电宝是Anker的超薄手机充电外壳，它可以给完全没电的iPhone手机充满电，也就是说把电池的使用时间延长了一倍。对于比较大的iPhone手机――6 Plus和6s Plus――Wirecutter推荐Tylt的分离式充电手机壳(Energi Sliding Power Case)，因为这种手机壳是分体设计的，样子很好看。
For Android phones, an external battery pack is a good option. The AmazonBasics Portable Power Bank with Micro USB Cable 2,000 mAh is the best pack the Wirecutter tested that will fit in your pocket with your phone, and it’s less than $10. A great battery pack for the iPhone is the $29 TravelCard, which is almost thin enough to fit in a wallet — with a built-in Lightning-connector cable to charge your phone.
至于安卓手机，充电宝是最佳选择。带有小型USB线缆的AmazonBasics Portable Power Bank充电宝提供2000毫安电量，是Wirecutter测试的最佳充电宝，可以和手机一起放入口袋，价格还不到10美元。最适合iPhone的充电宝是29美元的TravelCard，它几乎可以放进钱包里，带有内置式Lightning接口线缆，可以给手机充电。
For days of smartphone power, the Anker PowerCore 15600 is the Wirecutter’s pick if you need to charge a phone repeatedly or keep a full-size tablet and phone topped up through a busy week. It has enough available power to charge a typical smartphone five times or to fill a large tablet such as an iPad Air almost twice — for under $40.
如果要用好几天，如果你需要重复给手机充电，或者有一个大的平板电脑和一个手机出差，Wirecutter推荐Anker PowerCore 15600。它能存储足够电量，为一部普通智能手机充电5次，为iPad Air之类大型平板充电两次，价钱低于40美元。
After her stressful day at Disneyland, Ms. Temeña bought an external Amazon battery pack. She said the pack could fully charge her phone six times, but it wasn’t ideal because of its bulk. Ultimately, she wishes her iPhone had a better battery.
在迪斯尼乐园度过了焦虑的一天之后，特米纳买了一个Amazon充电宝。她说，这个充电宝可以给她的手机充电六次，但是太大了，所以并不理想。最后，她还是希望她的iPhone手机能有个好点儿的电池。
“I don’t understand why a battery wouldn’t be able to keep up with all the other advances they’re putting into phones now,” she said.
“我不明白，现在手机都那么先进了，电池为什么就是跟不上呢，”她说。