It’s Travis Kalanick versus the world, and recently the world seems to be winning.
这是特拉维斯·卡兰尼克(Travis Kalanick)与世界的对决，然而最近，世界似乎占了上风。
Mr. Kalanick, who is brash and aggressive even by the standards of Silicon Valley, created Uber four years ago to blow up the traditional taxi business. In more than 60 cities, from San Francisco to Berlin, it is doing just that.
即便用硅谷的标准衡量，卡兰尼克也相当傲慢且咄咄逼人。四年前，他创立了Uber，打乱了传统出租车行业。在从旧金山到柏林的60多座城市里，这种情况都在发生。
Anyone with a smartphone can use Uber’s software to get a ride. No more standing on the corner in the rain, trying desperately to conjure up something that is not there. For that achievement, Uber is valued at $4 billion.
每个智能手机用户都能用Uber的软件招车。你不用再在雨天时站在角落，绝望地等待根本不会出现的东西。基于这项成就，Uber的估值为40亿美元（约合242.6亿元人民币）。
Suddenly, however, Mr. Kalanick is a bit besieged. Uber is being sued by its drivers, who say it is stealing their tips. Competitors are pressing it from all sides. Celebrity riders like Salman Rushdie and Jessica Seinfeld have had gripes too, usually about pricing.
然而，卡兰尼克突然有点四面楚歌了。Uber受到了公司司机的起诉，司机说Uber侵吞了他们的小费。竞争者从各个方面对它发动了攻击。萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)和杰西卡·塞恩菲尔德(Jessica Seinfeld)等名流乘客也有不满之处，而且他们的抱怨往往与价格有关。
Much worse, there have been questions about the quality of the drivers, made more urgent after one here in San Francisco hit an immigrant family in a crosswalk on New Year’s Eve, killing a 6-year-old. Her death has provoked the first wrongful-death lawsuit against Uber, which is expected to be filed on Monday.
远比这些更糟糕的是，人们认为司机的素质有问题。新年前夜，旧金山的一名司机在人行横道上撞了一个移民家庭，导致一名6岁儿童死亡，由此加重了这个问题的紧迫性。这名女童的死亡引起了针对Uber的第一桩非正常死亡诉讼，此次诉讼预计将于周一提出。
Uber and its abundance of imitators represent a new stage for technology companies. These businesses directly insert themselves into the physical world, arranging on-demand transportation, meals or even clean laundry in exchange for a sweet commission. Unlike Facebook or Twitter, which thrive in the safe confines of cyberspace, these start-ups live on the streets.
Uber和大量的模仿者代表了科技公司的一个新舞台。这些业务直接介入现实世界，根据客户意愿来安排交通、餐饮，甚至洗衣服务，并以此换取丰厚的报酬。不像只活跃在安全的网络空间的Facebook或Twitter，这些初创公司出没在街头。
That is a much messier place. Regulators, courts and city halls are struggling to define Uber. Is it a taxi company or a technology platform? Are the drivers, who often use their own vehicles, employees, as some are arguing in court, or “partners” — that is, freelancers — as Uber maintains?
而街头是更为复杂的地方。管理者、法院和市政厅都无法明确定义Uber。它到底是一家出租车公司，还是一个技术平台？那些通常使用自家车辆的司机究竟如有些人在法院上说的那样是员工，还是像Uber所说的那样是“合作伙伴”——也就是自由职业者？
Uber compares itself to the auction site eBay, connecting a buyer and seller but not liable for what happens between them. Regulating Uber, the company told the California Public Utilities Commission, would stifle innovation.
Uber认为自己与拍卖网站eBay差不多，可以将买卖双方联系起来，但不对二者之间的事情负责。Uber告诉加州公共事业委员会(California Public Utilities Commission)，管制Uber将会遏制创新。
The commission, which oversees limousine companies, called Uber’s arguments “creative” but decided in September that it was a transportation company after all, subject to regulation. Uber is appealing. A spokesman for Uber said the company’s system of asking passengers for feedback meant Uber was self-regulating.
这个负责监管豪华出租车公司的委员会说Uber的论点“颇有创意”，但仍于去年9月认定它是一家运输公司，应该接受监管。目前，Uber正在上诉。该公司的一名发言人说，公司要求乘客提供反馈的系统说明Uber在进行自我监管。
The issue is pressing because, as the company rapidly expands and Uber drivers flood the streets, the possibility of accidents increases. Who is responsible when something goes wrong?
这个问题之所以突出，是因为随着Uber的迅速扩张，Uber的司机将会占满街道，那么发生事故的可能性也会随之增加。那么，当事故发生时，应该由谁来负责呢？
The Uber driver who hit 6-year-old Sofia Liu and injured her mother and brother was arrested on suspicion of vehicular manslaughter.
那名撞了6岁的索菲亚·刘（Sofia Liu，音译），并导致她的母亲和兄弟受伤的Uber司机已因涉嫌交通过失杀人被捕。
“We have deactivated his Uber account,” Uber said in a statement. But the company pointedly said the driver, Syed Muzaffar, did not have a passenger in his Honda Pilot at the time of the accident, and thus the accident had nothing to do with Uber.
“我们已经冻结了他的Uber账户，”Uber在声明中说。但是该公司特别指出，事故发生时，这位名叫赛义德·穆扎法尔(Syed Muzaffar)的司机的本田Pilot车内没有一名乘客，所以事故与Uber无关。
Mr. Muzaffar’s lawyer said that was false and self-serving. “He was working for Uber,” said the lawyer, Graham Archer. “He was waiting for a fare.”
穆扎法尔的律师说，这种说法不足为信而且非常自私。“他在为Uber服务，”律师格雷厄姆·阿切尔(Graham Archer)说。“他当时在等待乘客。”
In a testy interview at Uber’s offices here, Mr. Kalanick declined to discuss the accident except in the most general terms.
卡兰尼克在Uber本地的办公室接受了采访，采访过程并不顺利。卡兰尼克不愿意谈论此次事故，只是一带而过。
“We work our butts off to go above and beyond what is expected even by the regulators, including insurance, background checks,” he said. “And so it always comes back to, did Uber do something wrong?”
“我们为了满足和超越人们的期望——其中甚至包括管理者的期望——都快忙疯了，其中包括保险、背景核查等等，”他说。“所以问题总是回到这里，Uber做错了什么吗？”
Some say the answer is yes.
有人说，答案是肯定的。
The San Francisco Cab Drivers Association, which is losing drivers to Uber, prominently offered condolences to Sofia’s family on its website.
旧金山出租车司机协会(San Francisco Cab Drivers Association)就高调地在网站上对索菲亚的家庭表示慰问。目前，该组织的司机正在纷纷转到Uber旗下。
“Uber may be the next Amazon, but Amazon doesn’t have the same potential capability to leave a trail of bodies in the street,” Trevor Johnson, a director of the association and a driver himself, wrote in an email.
协会负责人之一、司机特雷弗·约翰逊(Trevor Johnson)在电子邮件中写道，“Uber可能会成为下一个亚马逊(Amazon)，但是亚马逊不存在那种在大街上留下尸体的可能性。”
Sofia was buried Thursday. Christopher Dolan, a personal injury lawyer representing the Liu family, spoke at the service with a message from the girl’s father, Ang Jiang Liu: “I intend to get justice for my daughter and hold Uber accountable.”
索菲亚的葬礼在周四举行。代表刘家的人身伤害律师克里斯托弗·多兰(Christopher Dolan)在葬礼上传达了女孩的父亲刘昂江（Ang Jiang Liu，音译）的讯息：“我要为女儿讨回公道，让Uber为此负责。”
Uber by its very nature distracts its drivers, the lawyer said in an interview.
律师在采访中说，由于Uber的特性，它本来就会对司机造成干扰。
“Cabdrivers who are looking for fares are scanning the streets,” he said. “Uber drivers looking for fares are looking at their phones.”
“找顾客的出租车司机会打量街道，”他说。“希望挣钱的Uber司机则在查看手机。”
David Krane, who last summer led a $258 million investment in Uber by Google Ventures, was full of admiration for Mr. Kalanick and what he called his “superpowers,” including his attention to detail.
去年夏季，戴维·克兰(David Krane)引领谷歌风投(Google Ventures)对Uber进行了2.58亿美元的投资，他对卡兰尼克，以及其人所谓的“超能力”，包括他对细节的关注十分赞赏。
“I know very few chief executives that on New Year’s Day would answer 100 customer service inquiries in public,” Mr. Krane said.
克兰说，“据我所知，很少有首席执行官会在新年当天公开回答100个客服问题。”
Those inquiries, on Twitter, were often about surge pricing, the much-discussed Uber feature that increases prices by multiples of three, four or more times normal on holidays, or during bad weather or rush hour. Surge pricing, Uber says, gets more vehicles on the road, but many riders do not seem to understand it.
Twitter上的这些问题往往是关于高收费的，Uber的这种特性广受讨论，他们往往会在节假日、天气恶劣或交通高峰时将价格提高三四倍，乃至更高。Uber说，提高收费能促使更多车辆上路，但许多乘客似乎都不理解这一点。
Drivers filed suit against Uber in August, saying the company told riders that the tip was included in the fare but that it was never remitted to the driver. Uber says there is no merit to the case, but a San Francisco judge ruled last month that it could go forward.
8月，司机开始起诉Uber，说Uber告诉乘客车费中已经包含了小费，但却未将之交给司机。Uber说这个案子没有任何价值，但是旧金山的一名法官上月裁定此案可以继续进行。
More drivers are constantly being solicited. Last week, Uber apologized for ordering a hundred cars from a New York competitor and then canceling. Uber’s goal was to get the drivers’ numbers and persuade them to work for Uber. “Too aggressive,” the company conceded.
该公司一直在招募更多的司机。Uber曾从纽约的竞争对手那里预定了100辆汽车，随后又取消了这些预定。公司上周对这种做法表示了道歉。Uber的目标是拿到司机的电话号码，然后说服他们为Uber工作。它也承认，这种做法“太过分了”。