VERO BEACH, FLA. 
佛罗里达州维罗海滩城(VERO BEACH, FLA.)
WHAT: A house with three bedrooms and two bathrooms
待售房产：一栋三卧两卫的房屋
HOW MUCH: $624,900
价格：62.49万美元(约合人民币388万元)
SIZE: Approximately 2,593 square feet
面积：约2593平方英尺（约241平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $241
每平方英尺单价：241美元（约合每平方米人民币1.6万元）
SETTING: This house is on Orchid Island, a thin barrier island encompassed by the city of Vero Beach and separated from the mainland by the Indian River Lagoon. The neighborhood, Summerplace, is a small community of cottages on tropical lots, developed in the early 1960s. The roads are made of ground shells. This house is about a block and a half from the beach, with plenty of spots for surfing and boating nearby, as well as a way onto the Historic Jungle Trail, a pedestrian and bike path that winds for eight miles under a tree canopy.
周边环境：房屋位于兰屿(Orchid Island)，这是一座狭长的堰洲岛，周围环绕着维罗海滩城，与陆地之间隔着一片印第安河澙湖(Indian River Lagoon)。萨摩普雷斯(Summerplace)社区是个地处热带的木屋别墅区，开发于20世纪60年代初期。这里的道路是贝壳铺成的。这栋房屋与海滩之间大约隔着一个半街区的距离，附近有许多地方可以冲浪和划船，还有一条路可通往“历史丛林小径”(Historic Jungle Trail)，那是一条在树荫下蜿蜒8英里（约13公里）的步行道和自行车道。
INDOORS: The cedar-sided house was built in 1962, with a second story added in 1980. Most of the interior is wood, with Dade County pine floors, paneled ceilings and walls, and exposed beams throughout. Picture windows face oak trees and tropical foliage.
室内环境：这栋两侧镶有雪松木板的房屋建于1962年，并于1980年增建了第二层。大部分内饰为木头，采用了戴德郡(Dade County)的松木地板，设计了镶嵌着木板的天花板与墙壁，屋内的顶梁都暴露在外。几扇观景窗面对着一片橡树林和许多热带植物。
The living room has a pitched ceiling and walls of built-in bookshelves. The kitchen has a dining nook with sliding glass doors opening onto a deck. Glass doors in both the living room and the foyer open to what was originally a sleeping porch, now enclosed and used as an office. The living room also opens to a second, west-facing deck. The stainless-steel kitchen appliances were installed within the last five years.
客厅采用了倾斜的天花板设计，有几面墙的嵌壁式书架。厨房有一处可进餐的小角落，那里有一扇推拉门通往平台。客厅与门厅的玻璃门都通往一个原本是凉台的地方，现在那里已经封闭了起来，用作一间办公室。这间客厅还可通往另一个面向西侧的平台。不锈钢的厨房电器都是近五年内安装的。
Two bedrooms are on the first floor. The third bedroom is upstairs. It has a pitched ceiling and two walk-in closets. Also upstairs is a family room with a fireplace and sliding glass doors opening to a deck shared with the bedroom. There is an attached two-car garage.
两间卧室都在一楼。第三间卧室在楼上。这间卧室里有倾斜的天花板和两个步入式衣柜。楼上还有一间家庭娱乐室，内有一座壁炉和一扇推拉玻璃门通往一处和那间卧室共用的平台。这栋房屋带有一间连体式两车位车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on a half-acre with an outdoor shower.
户外空间：这栋房屋占地面积半英亩（约2023平方米），带有一间户外冲凉房。
TAXES: $3,770 in 2014; there is a homeowner’s association fee of $650 a year
税：2014年的税为3770美元（约合人民币23420元）；每年还有一笔650美元（约合人民币4034元）的物业管理费。
CONTACT: Janyne Kenworthy, Treasure Coast Sotheby’s International Realty, (772) 696-5110; janyne.com
联系方式：Janyne Kenworthy, Treasure Coast Sotheby’s International Realty, (772) 696-5110;
•
PHILADELPHIA
费城(PHILADELPHIA)
WHAT: A Victorian townhouse with five bedrooms and two and a half bathrooms
待售房产：一栋维多利亚式联排别墅，带五间卧室和两间半浴室
HOW MUCH: $659,000
价格：65.9万美元(约合人民币409.4万元)
SIZE: 3,020 square feet total
面积：约3020平方英尺（约281平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $218
每平方英尺单价：218美元（约合每平方米人民币1.5万元）
SETTING: This house is in Northern Liberties, a neighborhood just north of Center City. Architecturally, the area is a mix of Victorian rowhouses, reclaimed industrial buildings and contemporary construction, including several LEED-certified projects. There is a train stop a few blocks away; cafes, boutiques, bars and restaurants are around the corner.
周边环境：这栋房屋坐落在中央城区Center City)正北方的北部自由(Northern Liberties)社区中。该区域的建筑物混合了多种风格，其中有维多利亚式的排屋、有改造再利用的工业大厦，还有一些当代风格的建筑，其中包括几个已通过能源及环境领先认证(LEED-certified)的项目。在几条街区之外有一个火车站；四周还有一些咖啡厅、服饰精品店、酒吧和餐厅。
INDOORS: The four-story brick house was built around 1890 and updated over the last two years. Original features include molding, pine floors and marble mantels, a contrast with the contemporary lighting fixtures and exposed brick walls.
室内环境：这栋四层楼的砖砌建筑大约建于1890年，并于近两年内翻修过。原有的建筑特色包括装饰线条、松木地板和大理石壁炉台，这些装修设计与屋内当代风格的灯具和暴露的砖墙形成了对比。
Common areas are on the first floor, with a living room followed by a formal dining room and a kitchen. The fireplaces in the living and dining rooms are decorative. The dining-room mantel is made from King of Prussia marble, a veiny, blue-gray stone quarried in Pennsylvania in the 18th and 19th centuries. Ceilings in the common rooms are more than 11 feet tall.
公用区在一楼，这里有一间客厅，后面是一间正式的餐厅和厨房。客厅与餐厅里的壁炉都有装饰。餐厅里的壁炉台是用普鲁士国王(King of Prussia)大理石做的，这是一种带有纹理的蓝灰色石材，于18、19世纪开采于宾夕法尼亚州(Pennsylvania)。几个公用房间的天花板高11英尺（约3.4米）。
The kitchen was updated with a butcher-block center island and stainless-steel appliances, including a Bertazzoni stove with double ovens and a six-burner range. The room gives way to a dining nook with glass doors that open onto the back patio.
厨房里新装了一座仿砧板的中央岛台和一些不锈钢电器，其中包括一台带有双烤室的波特佐尼(Bertazzoni)烤炉和一台六眼灶具。这个房间有个进餐的小角落，那里有一扇推拉门可通往屋后的露台。
The master suite is on the second floor, and includes a dressing room, a laundry area and a full bathroom with double sinks and a claw-foot tub. Across the hall, there’s a family room. Three bedrooms are on the third floor, while a fourth-floor bedroom with dormer windows is used as a den. The basement has an additional laundry area and storage. The owners have paid for a year of parking for one car a block away.
主卧套间在二楼，内有一间更衣室、一个浣衣区和一间带有双盥洗池和站脚浴缸的全功能浴室。穿过走廊有一间家庭娱乐室。另外三间卧室在三楼，而四楼的一间带有几扇屋顶窗的卧室用作了私室。地下室里有额外的浣衣区和储藏室。这栋房屋的业主已经支付了一个车位一年的停车费，地点在一条街区外。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house has a back patio and a side sitting area.
户外空间：这栋房屋有一个屋后露台和一处屋侧的休息区。
TAXES: Approximately $6,310 a year
税：每年大约6310美元（约合人民币39164元）。
CONTACT: Melanie Stecura, Kurfiss Sotheby’s International Realty, (917) 757-4309; kurfiss.com
联系方式：Melanie Stecura, Kurfiss Sotheby’s International Realty, (917) 757-4309; kurfiss.com
•
GOODLETTSVILLE, TENN.
田纳西州古德利茨维尔(GOODLETTSVILLE, TENN.)
WHAT: A house with four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms
待售房产：一栋带有四间卧室和三间半浴室的房屋
HOW MUCH: $649,000
面积：64.9万美元(约合人民币403.2万元)
SIZE: 4,450 square feet total
大小：约4450平方英尺（约413平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $146
每平方英尺单价：146美元（约合每平方米人民币9758元）
SETTING: Goodlettsville is a small city just north of Nashville, 15 miles from downtown. Much of the city is wooded and rural. This house is on five acres off a winding country road, set with four other houses behind a gated entrance.
周边环境：古德利茨维尔(Goodlettsville)是一座位于那什维尔市(Nashville)正北方的小城，距纳什维尔市中心15英里（约24公里），这里大部分地方都是树林和乡村风景。这栋房屋占地面积5英亩（约2公顷），靠着一条蜿蜒的乡村小路，与另外四栋房屋从同一扇大门出入。
INDOORS: The two-story stone house was built in 1993 and renovated within the past year. The ground floor makes much use of texture, with a mix of bleached oak and slate floors, rustic beams and some exposed stone walls. Decorative wrought iron is used throughout, starting with the double front doors and the banisters on the limestone staircase in the foyer.
室内环境：这栋两层楼的石砌房屋建于1993年，去年经过了翻修。房屋一楼的装修注重质感，铺着经过漂白处理的橡木与石板混合搭配的地板，采用了乡村风格的顶梁设计和一些暴露的砖墙设计。装饰性的铸铁工艺从正前方的双开门和门厅中的石灰岩阶梯扶手开始，在整栋房屋中随处可见。
On one side of the foyer is a dining room with a floor-to-ceiling stone fireplace and a chandelier. On the other side is a kitchen. Stainless-steel appliances, including a six-burner Wolf range, are set into a stone wall with a tile backsplash. The room also has a white granite center island and a gas fireplace.
门厅的一侧是餐厅，那里有一座直通天花板的石砌壁炉和一盏枝形吊灯。门厅的另一侧是厨房，包括一台六眼Wolf炉灶在内的不锈钢电器都安装在一面带有瓷砖后挡板的石砌墙壁中。这个房间还有一座白色花岗岩的中央岛台和一座燃气壁炉。
The living room has a pitched ceiling, a wood-paneled ceiling and a floor-to-ceiling stone fireplace. It opens to a screened porch. The first-floor master suite has windows facing the large front yard and custom barn doors that slide open to a master bathroom with marble countertops, updated within the last year. There’s also a soaking tub in a stone alcove with windows.
客厅内采用了倾斜的天花板设计和装饰着木板的天花板设计，还有一座直通天花板的石砌壁炉。这个房间通往一座封闭的门廊。一楼的主卧套间有几扇窗户面对着房屋正前方的大院子，还有一扇定制的遮光掩门，推开门就是主卧浴室，内有大理石台面，这间浴室去年翻修过。浴室内还有一个建在石砌凹室内带窗的沉浸式浴缸。
The other three bedrooms are upstairs. Here, the décor is serene and more streamlined. Each bedroom has arched, church-like windows and light hardwood floors. One has a private bathroom, while the remaining two share a bathroom. Also upstairs, there’s a 500-square-foot media room with dormer windows and a dry bar with two small refrigerators. The property has a five-car garage.
另外三间卧室位于楼上。这几间房的装修风格宁静祥和，而且更具流线型设计。每间卧室都有类似教堂里的拱形窗户，和浅色的实木地板。一间卧室带有私人浴室，而另外两间共用一间浴室。楼上还有一间面积500平方英尺（约47平方米）的多媒体室，这个房间带有几扇屋顶窗和一个配备了两台小冰箱但没有盥洗池的吧台。这栋房屋有一间五车位的车库。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The lot is just over five acres, the front acre of which is cleared, while the remainder is sloping and wooded. The property has a heated pool, a patio, gardens and a grilling area. There are also two koi ponds, as well as an outdoor fireplace and a pool cabana.
户外空间：这块土地面积刚刚超过5英亩（约2公顷），房屋正前方的土地已经平整，而其他地方仍然是坡地和树林。这处房产带有一座温水游泳池、一座露台、几座花园和一个烧烤区。另外还有两座锦鲤池塘，以及一座户外壁炉和一间泳池小屋。
TAXES: Approximately $3,505 a year
税：每年大约3505美元（约合人民币21755元）。
CONTACT: Chris Mannino, the Lipman Group Sotheby’s International Realty, (615) 299-7995; chrismanninohomes.com
联系方式：Chris Mannino, the Lipman Group Sotheby’s International Realty, (615) 299-7995; chrismanninohomes.com