LOS ANGELES —Jordan Horowitz knew something was wrong the moment he saw people in headsets scurrying across the Oscars stage.
洛杉矶——看到戴耳机的人快速跑上奥斯卡舞台，乔丹·霍洛维茨(Jordan Horowitz)知道出问题了。
Only a minute earlier Faye Dunaway had said the words that Mr. Horowitz had longed to hear — “La La Land” — as she announced the best picture winner for the 2017 Academy Awards. Mr. Horowitz, a producer on that film, and colleagues and cast members raced to the stage. Mr. Horowitz spoke first — “Thank you to the academy,” he began — but his excitement quickly dissipated, as he recalled the shocking end to the night in an interview with The New York Times after the ceremony.
仅在一分钟前，菲·唐娜薇(Faye Dunaway)刚说完霍洛维茨渴望听到的几个字——“《爱乐之城》”(La La Land)——她是在宣布2017年奥斯卡奖最佳影片奖获得者。作为该片制片人的霍洛维茨以及他的同事和演职人员快速登上了舞台。霍洛维茨首先发言——“谢谢学院，”他开头说道——但他的兴奋很快就消散了。颁奖仪式结束后，他在接受《纽约时报》采访时，回忆起了这个夜晚令人震惊的结局。
“I’m holding the envelope and the award, and I had just given my speech, and there are people on the stage with headsets, and I thought, ‘That doesn’t seem right,’” Mr. Horowitz said at the Governors Ball, the official post-Oscars celebration.
“我拿着信封和奖杯，我刚说完获奖感言，看见几个戴耳机的人上了舞台，我心想，‘好像不对劲’，”霍洛维茨在奥斯卡的官方庆祝活动州长舞会(Governors Ball)上接受采访时说。
“They asked to see my envelope, which I haven’t opened,” he recalled. “Clearly something was wrong. They open my envelope, and it says ‘Emma Stone, “La La Land.”’ So clearly something is not right. The guys in headsets were going around with urgency looking for the other envelope — it just kind of appeared,” he said. “One of the guys opens it, and it says ‘Moonlight,’ and I took it onstage and went to the microphone and said what I said.” What Mr. Horowitz said — “There’s a mistake. ‘Moonlight,’ you guys won best picture” — was one of the most surprising reversals in Oscar history, with apparent human error combining with live television to powerful, jaw-dropping effect. It was also a painful reminder, on the most celebratory night of the year for the film industry, that no system of voting is perfect, and it warped and dampened the euphoria of film executives and artists who had spent years working on the two movies.
“他们想看我的信封，我还没打开，”他回忆说，“显然是出了问题。他们打开我的信封，上面写着‘艾玛·斯通(Emma Stone)，《爱乐之城》’。显然不对劲。之前，戴耳机的那些人在匆忙地四处寻找另一个信封，刚刚找到，”他说。“其中一个人打开了它，上面写着‘《月光男孩》(Moonlight)’，我带着它走上舞台，走到麦克风前说了后面那些话。”霍罗维茨说的是：“刚才弄错了。《月光男孩》，你们获得了最佳影片奖。”这是奥斯卡历史上最令人意外的反转之一，明显的人为失误加上现场直播导致了令人目瞪口呆的结果。在电影业一年中最欢庆的夜晚，这也痛苦地提醒我们，投票制度都是不完美的，它扭曲和挫伤了在这两部电影上花费多年心血的电影制作者和艺术家们的欣喜。
And for the academy, which had been criticized last year for #OscarsSoWhite, there might have been something of a missed moment: Instead of a proper celebration of “Moonlight,” with its all-black cast and touching personal narrative, there was a televised scene of confusion, disbelief and astonishment.
去年的奥斯卡奖因“#奥斯卡太白了”(#OscarsSoWhite)而遭到批评，而今年错失了一个大好机会：它没能尽情庆祝《月光男孩》——一部有全黑人演员阵容和动人的个人讲述的电影——的成功，而是搞出了一个充满混乱、怀疑和惊讶的电视直播场景。
PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm that oversaw the academy voting and handled the award envelopes, issued a statement on Monday morning that apologized to those involved with the two movies; the award category presenters, Ms. Dunaway and Warren Beatty; and to Oscar viewers “for the error that was made during the award announcement for best picture.”
周一上午，负责监督学院投票和处理获奖信封的普华永道会计事务所(PricewaterhouseCoopers)发表了一项声明，“因为在宣布最佳影片奖时出现的错误”，向这两部电影的参与者、颁奖嘉宾唐娜薇和沃伦·比提(Warren Beatty)和奥斯卡观众致歉。
The statement added, “We appreciate the grace with which the nominees, the academy, ABC and Jimmy Kimmel handled the situation,” a reference to the network broadcasting the show and the host of the Oscars ceremony.
该声明还说：“我们感谢提名者、学院、ABC频道以及吉米·坎摩尔(Jimmy Kimmel)在处理这一情况时的风度，”ABC频道是直播该颁奖礼的电视网；坎摩尔是颁奖典礼的主持人。
PricewaterhouseCoopers prepares two identical sets of sealed envelopes. The two partners from the firm who oversee the voting process, Martha L. Ruiz and Brian Cullinan, each have a briefcase with a complete set of the envelopes inside and stand on opposite sides of the stage.
普华永道准备了两套相同的密封信封。监督投票过程的两位公司合伙人玛莎·L·鲁伊斯(Martha L. Ruiz)和布莱恩·卡利南(Brian Cullinan)站在舞台两侧，每人拿着一个公文包，里面各有一整套信封。
The envelope for best actress, the penultimate award of the night, came from the side of the stage where Ms. Ruiz stood.
当晚的倒数第二个奖项最佳女演员奖的信封来自鲁伊斯所在的那侧舞台。
After Ms. Stone accepted that honor, Ms. Dunaway and Mr. Beatty came out to present the best picture award from Mr. Cullinan’s side of the stage, where a best actress envelope was still unopened. Mr. Cullinan clearly handed Mr. Beatty the wrong envelope.
在斯通接受了那个奖项后，唐娜薇和比提从卡利南这一侧出来颁发最佳影片奖，这一侧的最佳女演员奖信封尚未开启。卡利南显然是把错误的信封递给了比提。
After Mr. Cullinan and Ms. Ruiz realized that the wrong winner had been announced, they notified the stage manager, which set in motion a chaotic scene onstage. Those details, provided by two people familiar with the process who were not authorized to speak publicly, helped clarify some of the details of what happened onstage Sunday night.
卡利南和鲁伊斯意识到宣布的获胜者有误后，通知了舞台主管，引发了舞台上的混乱一幕。这些细节来自两名熟悉该流程的人士，他们未被授权公开发言。我们据此可以澄清周日晚间在舞台上发生的一些状况。
Yet it still took more than two minutes between Ms. Dunaway announcing “La La Land” as best picture and an announcement from the “La La Land” producers that “Moonlight” was in fact the winner. Three “La La Land” producers had given acceptance speeches before the mistake was announced.
然而，唐娜薇宣布《爱乐之城》获得最佳影片奖两分多钟后，《爱乐之城》的制片人才宣布实际上《月光男孩》是获胜者。在这个错误被澄清之前，《爱乐之城》的三名制片人已经发表了获奖感言。
Exactly how the confusion resulting in Mr. Beatty’s being handed the wrong envelope occurred is not fully known. But it could have to do with the design. PricewaterhouseCoopers used a new envelope this year, featuring red paper with gold lettering that specifies the award inside. That may have made the outside of the envelopes more difficult to read than last year’s envelopes, which featured gold paper and red lettering. The academy is responsible for the envelope design.
尚不完全清楚究竟为什么比提拿到了错误的信封。但可能与设计有关。今年，普华永道使用了一种新信封，在红纸上用金字标明里面的奖项。这可能使信封的外部比去年的更难辨认，去年的是金纸红字。信封的设计由学院负责。
“I read the card that was in the envelope,” Mr. Beatty told reporters on his way to the Governors Ball. “I thought, ‘This is very strange because it says “best actress” on the card.’ And I felt that maybe there was some sort of misprint.” Pressed further, he said, “That’s all I have to say on the subject.”
“我看了信封里的卡片，”比提在前往州长舞会的路上对记者们说，“当时我想，‘这很奇怪，因为卡片上写着“最佳女演员奖”。’我觉得它可能是印刷错误。”当被进一步追问时，他说，“关于这个话题，我没什么好说的了。”
PricewaterhouseCoopers declined to comment beyond the statement it put out early Monday morning.
普华永道拒绝在周一早上发布的声明之外进行更多的评论。
For the filmmakers and actors in “Moonlight,” those final seven minutes of the Oscars ceremony — from Ms. Dunaway’s announcement of “La La Land” to the discovery that “Moonlight” had won to the speeches by its producers, by Mr. Beatty and by Mr. Kimmel — were no less stunning.
对《月光男孩》的制作者和演员们来说，奥斯卡颁奖典礼的这最后七分钟——从唐娜薇宣布《爱乐之城》获胜到发现实际上《月光男孩》获胜，再到该片制作人们的获奖感言以及比提和坎摩尔的发言——也同样令人震惊。
“The last 20 minutes of my life have been insane,” Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight,” told reporters backstage after the ceremony. “I don’t think my life could be changed any more dramatically than the last 20 or 30 minutes.”
“我人生刚过去的这20分钟简直是疯狂的，”颁奖典礼结束后，《月光男孩》的导演巴里·杰金斯(Barry Jenkins)在后台对记者们说，“我觉得我的人生不可能再像过去这二三十分钟这样大起大落。”