A photographer captured two pages of Mark Zuckerberg’s notes for his appearance at a Senate hearing on Tuesday. Once highlighted on Twitter, the image was retweeted thousands of times.
一名摄影师在周二的参议院听证会上拍下了马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)的两页笔记。在Twitter上引起注意后，这张照片被转发了数千次。
To many commenters, the paradox was clear. On a day Mr. Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, faced lawmakers’ questions about whether his company adequately protected users’ data, he experienced a disclosure of his own.
对许多评论者来说，这个矛盾之处显而易见。在Facebook的首席执行官扎克伯格面对议员的提问，回答他的公司是否对用户数据作出了充分保护的那一天，他自己也经历了一次个人信息泄露。
The talking points gave a detailed view of Facebook’s extensive preparations for the appearance before Congress of its billionaire founder. While some of the notes matched what he said on Tuesday, others reminded him what not to say or anticipated questions that were not raised. Mr. Zuckerberg will appear Wednesday for another day of testimony.
这些谈话要点详细地展示了Facebook为其亿万富翁创始人在国会作证而做的大量准备工作。虽然其中一些笔记与他周二所说的内容相符，但其它笔记提醒了他不该说什么，或者包括做了准备但没有被提出的问题。扎克伯格于周三再次作证。
One section of the notes suggested responses in case Mr. Zuckerberg was asked if he would step down. He was not asked that question, but the suggested reply indicated he planned to stay.
其中一段笔记给出了如果扎克伯格被问到是否会辞职，他应该如何回答的建议。他没有被问到这个问题，但建议的回答表明他计划继续担任这个职位。
“Resign?” read the notes, which were written in an abbreviated form. “Founded Facebook. My decisions. I made mistakes. Big challenge, but we’ve faced problems before, going to solve this one. Already taking action.”
“辞职？”笔记写着，它们是用缩写形式写的。“成立了Facebook。我做的决定。我犯了错误。很大的挑战，但我们以前也遇到过问题，会解决这个问题。已经在采取行动。”
The notes also included what Mr. Zuckerberg should say if asked whether Facebook should be broken up. “U.S. tech companies key asset for America,” was the suggested reply. “Breakup strengthens Chinese companies.”
这些笔记还包括了扎克伯格如果被问到Facebook是否应该拆分时应该说些什么。“美国科技公司是美国的关键资产”是建议的回答。“拆分会让中国企业变强。”
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, asked if Facebook was a monopoly. But he did not press Mr. Zuckerberg on whether the company should be divided, and the answer citing Chinese competition was not used.
南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)问到Facebook是否是一个垄断企业。但他并没有向扎克伯格强调他的公司是否应该被拆分的问题，因此提到中国竞争的回答没有用上。
“You don’t think you have a monopoly?” Mr. Graham asked.
“你不认为你们在垄断？”格雷厄姆问道。
“It certainly doesn’t feel like that to me,” Mr. Zuckerberg replied.
“我肯定是没有这种感觉，”扎克伯格回答。
Mr. Zuckerberg’s notes also guide a response to recent criticism from Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, who has described his own company as a far more robust defender of consumer privacy.
扎克伯格的笔记也对如何回应苹果首席执行官蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)最近提出的批评给出了指导，库克将自己的公司描述成了一个更坚定的消费者隐私保护者。
“Lots of stories about apps misusing Apple data, never seen Apple notify people,” read the notes. But Mr. Cook’s comments were not raised during the hearing, and the response was not used.
“有很多关于应用程序滥用苹果数据的故事，从未见到苹果通知用户，”笔记写着。但库克的评论在听证会期间没有被提及，这个回答也没被用上。
Another section warns Mr. Zuckerberg about comments to avoid. In response to any questions about European Union privacy and data protections, the notes instructed that he should not say Facebook already complies with a data privacy law that goes into effect in May.
另一部分笔记则警告了扎克伯格要回避的评论。这些笔记提示说，在回答有关欧盟隐私和数据保护的任何问题时，他不应该说Facebook已经遵守了将在5月生效的数据隐私法。
The image was photographed by Andrew Harnik of The Associated Press and was included in a tweet from Stefan Becket, a senior news editor at CBSNews.com, that was shared widely.
这张照片由美联社(The Associated Press)的安德鲁·哈尼克(Andrew Harnik)拍摄，也出现在了CBSNews.com高级新闻编辑斯蒂芬·贝克特(Stefan Becket)的推文中。
“I took 70 photos of Zuck today,” Mr. Harnik wrote in response. “Leave it to the writers to love the photograph of pages of text.”
“我今天拍了70张扎克的照片，”哈尼克在回应中写道。“让作者去操心这张关于笔记本文字的照片吧。”
Mr. Harnik said he didn’t think the photo constituted the sharing of private information.
哈尼克说，他不认为这张照片分享了私人信息。
“He left it on the desk surrounded by probably upwards of 100 film and still cameras pointed at the desk from every direction,” he tweeted. “I do not think that constitutes an invasion of privacy.”
“他把它放在桌子上，可能有100多部摄影机和相机从四面八方对着这张办公桌，”他在Twitter上写道。“我不认为这构成了隐私侵犯。”
Photos of notes during official events have a long history of revealing more information than those who held them intended.
以前也有过在正式场合中，笔记的照片比持有笔记的人透露出更多信息的情况。
In 1975, a photograph of then-Secretary of State Henry Kissinger at the Helsinki Accords showed him reading a document with the heading “TOP SECRET SENSITIVE EXCLUSIVELY EYES ONLY CONTAINS CODE WORD.”
1975年，时任国务卿亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)在赫尔辛基协议的签署仪式上的一张照片显示，他阅读了一份标题为“最高机密敏感仅供亲阅含有代码字”的文件。
The document, which discussed diplomatic relations between France and North Vietnam based on a C.I.A. source with access to the French Foreign Ministry, undermined ties between Washington and Paris, Lawrence Martin-Bittman, a Boston University scholar, wrote in 1981.
波士顿大学学者劳伦斯·马丁-比特曼(Lawrence Martin-Bittman)在1981年写道，这份文件根据打入法国外交部的一名中情局线人提供的信息，讨论了法国与北越的外交关系，此事破坏了华盛顿和巴黎的关系。
More recently, President Trump was photographed during a meeting with parents, students and teachers who lost loved ones in the Parkland, Fla., school shooting holding notes that included the line, “I hear you.” The image raised questions about his ability to empathize with people who were grieving.
较近的一例，在与佛罗里达州帕克兰校园枪击案中失去了亲人的父母、学生和老师见面时，特朗普总统拿着的一张笔记里有“我在听”这句话。这张照片令人怀疑他是否具备以同理心待人的能力。