SAN FRANCISCO — Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder and chief executive of Facebook, announced on Tuesday that he and his wife would give 99 percent of their Facebook shares “during our lives” — holdings currently worth $45 billion — to charitable purposes.
旧金山——本周二，Facebook联合创始人暨首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)宣布，他和妻子将把“我们一生中”99%的Facebook股票用于慈善事业；这些股票目前市值450亿美元。
The pledge was made in an open letter to their newborn daughter, Max, who was born a week ago.
该承诺是在一封致其新生女儿麦克斯(Max)的公开信中做出的。麦克斯于一周前诞生。
Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, said they were forming a new organization, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, to manage the money. “Our initial areas of focus will be personalized learning, curing disease, connecting people and building strong communities,” they wrote.
扎克伯格和妻子普莉希拉·陈(Priscilla Chan)说，他们正在组建一个名为“陈-扎克伯格行动”(Chan Zuckerberg Initiative)的新组织来管理这些资金。“我们最初会侧重于个性化学习，疾病治疗，把大家连接起来，以及建立强大的社区，”他们写道。
In a securities filing, Facebook said Mr. Zuckerberg planned “to sell or gift no more than $1 billion of Facebook stock each year for the next three years.” He intends to retain his majority voting position in the company’s stock for the foreseeable future.
在一份证券报批文件中，Facebook表示，扎克伯格计划“在未来三年里，每年出售或捐赠不超过10亿美元的Facebook股票”。他打算在可预见的未来持有足够的股票比例，以保留自己在公司的多数表决权。
Earlier this week, Mr. Zuckerberg was one of the billionaires who signed on to the Breakthrough Energy Coalition, a group organized by the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates to contribute toward a multibillion-dollar clean energy fund. The announcement coincided with a Paris summit meeting intended to forge a global accord to cut planet-warming emissions.
本周早些时候，扎克伯格和其他一些亿万富翁加入了突破能源联盟(Breakthrough Energy Coalition)，这是微软联合创始人比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)组建的一个团体，旨在为一个数十亿美元的清洁能源基金贡献力量。公告发布的时候，巴黎峰会正在召开，其目的是达成一个全球性的协定，削减温室气体排放量。
Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Chan have recently made visible investments and gifts in several kindergarten-through-high-school education projects.
近来，扎克伯格和陈对几个从幼儿园到高中阶段的教育项目的投资和捐赠颇为醒目。
In May, AltSchool, a private school start-up in San Francisco that develops personalized learning technologies, announced that it had raised $100 million from a group of investors, including a donor-advised fund financed by the Zuckerbergs at the Silicon Valley Community Association.
开发个性化学习技术的私人学校初创公司AltSchool位于旧金山，今年5月，它宣布从一些投资机构那里募集了一亿美元资金，其中就包括扎克伯格在硅谷社区协会(Silicon Valley Community Association)资助的一个捐助者指定用途基金。
In September, Facebook announced that it was working with Summit Public Schools, a charter school network, to develop an on online platform to help tailor education to the needs and interests of individual students.
9月份，Facebook宣布它正在与一家特许连锁学校“峰会公立学校”(Summit Public Schools)合作，建立一个网上平台，目的是帮助提供度身定制的教育方案，满足学生个性化的需求和兴趣。
And in November, EducationSuperhighway, a nonprofit group that helps K-12 schools tap federal funds for high-speed classroom Internet connections, announced that the couple had agreed to donate $20 million to its work.
EducationSuperhighway是一家帮助K-12学校利用联邦资金，为教室建立高速互联网连接的非营利性组织，今年11月，他们宣布扎克伯格夫妇已同意捐献2000万美元支持其工作。