On Wednesday, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, gave a dramatic display of his interest in the country, speaking in Chinese for about a half-hour at a forum at Tsinghua University in Beijing. He discussed his thoughts on innovation in China, Facebook’s future in the country and why he is studying Chinese.
周三，Facebook的首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)用出人意料的形式展示了他对中国的兴趣，他在北京清华大学的一个座谈会上用中文讲了大约半个小时。他谈了自己对中国创新的看法，Facebook在中国的未来，以及他为什么学中文。
His Mandarin is far from perfect, but his first few words were received with cheers and applause by the assembled students and faculty members.
他的普通话远非完美，但他刚说了几个词后，在场的学生和老师就报以他欢呼声和掌声。
“Hello everyone. Thanks for coming,” he told the group. “I’m very glad to be in Beijing. I love this city. My Chinese is really a mess, but I study using Chinese every day.”
“大家好。谢谢你们来这里，”他对听众说。“我很高兴来北京。我很爱这座城市。我的中文很糟糕，但是我每天学习用中文。”
“Perhaps I need practice,” he added, to laughter from the group.
“我可能需要练习，”他在听众的欢笑声中补充道。
Mr. Zuckerberg joined the advisory council of Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management this week, and his talk was with students and faculty of the school.
本周，扎克伯格受聘成为清华大学经济管理学院顾问委员。他与学院的学生和老师进行了座谈。
Asked why he studied the language, Mr. Zuckerberg said his wife Priscilla Chan’s family members speak Chinese. Her grandmother was “very shocked,” he said, when he told her in Chinese that he and Ms. Chan planned to marry.
当被问到为什么学中文时，扎克伯格说，他的妻子普莉希拉·陈(Priscilla Chan)的家人说中文。他说，当自己用中文告诉她奶奶他们要结婚时，她的奶奶“非常吃惊”。
He said that while he knows more words in Mandarin, his wife also speaks Cantonese and has much better listening comprehension than he does. “One time I asked her, why is my listening comprehension so bad?” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “She said, ‘Your listening comprehension in English is also bad.’”
他说，虽然他知道更多普通话的词，但他也会说粤语的妻子听力比自己好。“有一次我问她，为什么我的听力这么差？”扎克伯格说。“她说，‘你的英文听力理解也差。’”
Mr. Zuckerberg’s new association with Tsinghua University shows how Facebook is playing the long game in China. The hope appears to be that engagement with China, along with Facebook’s current operations selling advertisements to Chinese companies, will help the company some day open a form of its website in China.
扎克伯格与清华大学的新关系显示了Facebook在中国的长远打算。公司似乎希望通过与中国接触，加上Facebook现有的来自中国公司的广告业务，帮助公司未来能在中国建立某种形式的网站。
When asked about Facebook’s plans in China, Mr. Zuckerberg took two big gulps from his water bottle to laughter, and then said, “We’re already in China,” to more laughs.
当被问及Facebook在中国的计划时，扎克伯格先是拿起水瓶，在听众的笑声中喝下两大口水，然后说，“我们已经在中国了，”引起更多的笑声。
“We help Chinese companies increase foreign customers, they use Facebook ads to find more customers,” he explained, citing how Lenovo uses Facebook to advertise in Indonesia. He added that Facebook had worked with Hangzhou and Qingdao to help those Chinese cities attract visitors via their Facebook pages.
“我们帮助中国的公司增长国外的客户，他们用Facebook广告找到更多的客户，”他解释道，还举了联想在印度尼西亚用Facebook做广告的例子。他补充说，杭州和青岛也用他们的Facebook页面吸引游客。
“We want to help other places in the world connect to China,” he said.
“我们想帮助世界其他地方连接中国，”他说。
On innovation, Mr. Zuckerberg said China boasted a number of the world’s most innovative companies. He mentioned that he had dinner with Lei Jun, the founder of the Chinese smartphone upstart Xiaomi. “It’s a very innovative company,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “It has a quick development with different products. They’re very cheap,” he said, spurring more laughs from the crowd.
在创新的问题上，扎克伯格表示，中国已经拥有一些世界上最具创新精神的公司。他提到，他与中国智能手机新秀小米的创始人雷军吃过饭。“小米是非常创新的公司，”扎克伯格说。“他们很快发展了很多不一样的产品。它们是很便宜的，”他说，在听众中引起更多的笑声。
“China is a great country,” he said, adding that studying the language helped him understand the culture. Finally, he said he studied the language because, “I like challenges.”
“中国是一个伟大的国家，”他说，并补充说，学习中文帮助他了解中国文化。最后他说，学习中文是因为“我喜欢挑战”。