Zhou Qunfei is the world’s richest self-made woman. Ms. Zhou, the founder of Lens Technology, owns a $27 million estate in Hong Kong. She jets off to Silicon Valley and Seoul to court executives at Apple and Samsung, her two biggest customers. She has played host to President Xi Jinping of China, when he visited her company’s headquarters.
周群飞是世界上最富有的白手起家的女性。她是蓝思科技的创始人，在香港拥有2700万美元的物业。她飞到硅谷和首尔，与苹果(Apple)和三星(Samsung)的高管接洽，那是她最大的两家客户。中国主席习近平参观蓝思科技总部时，周群飞接待了他。
But she seems most at home pacing the floor of her state-of-the-art factory, tinkering.
但她显得最得心应手的时候，似乎是在她一边在一流的工厂里巡视，一边摆弄东西的时候。
She’ll dip her hands into a tray of water, to determine whether the temperature is just right. She can explain the intricacies of heating glass in an ion potassium salt bath. When she passes a grinding machine, she is apt to ask technicians to step aside so she can take their place for a while.
她会把手伸进水盘里，确定温度是否合适。她可以解释在离子钾盐浴中加热玻璃的复杂性。当她经过一个研磨机时，她往往会让技术人员站到一边，然后亲自操作一阵。
Ms. Zhou knows the drill. For years, she labored in a factory, the best job she could get having grown up in an impoverished village in central China.
周群飞对这些很在行。她在中国中部一个贫困乡村长大，多年来，她在一家工厂里辛苦工作，那是她可以找到的最好的工作。
“She’ll sometimes sit down and work as an operator to see if there’s anything wrong with the process,” said James Zhao, a general manager at Lens Technology. “That will put me in a very awkward position. If there’s a problem, she’d say, ‘Why didn’t you see that?’ ”
“她有时会坐下来，做一些操作员的工作，看看制程中是否有什么不妥的地方，”蓝思科技的一位总经理詹姆斯·赵(James Zhao)说。“这会让我处在一个非常尴尬的境地。如果有问题，她会说，‘你为什么看不到呢？’”
Ms. Zhou has honed her hands-on knowledge into a world-class, multibillion-dollar operation, one at the vanguard of China’s push into high-end manufacturing. Lens Technology is now one of the leading suppliers of the so-called cover glass used in laptops, tablets and mobile devices, including the Apple iPhone and the Samsung Galaxy. This year, her factories are expected to churn out more than a billion glass screens, each refined to a fraction of a millimeter.
周群飞已经把自己亲身掌握的知识转化成为了一个世界级的、价值数十亿美元的业务，成了中国向高端制造业推进的排头兵。蓝思科技现在是笔记本电脑、平板电脑和移动设备玻璃屏的领先供应商之一，为苹果iPhone和三星Galaxy等产品供应组件。今年，她的工厂预计将出货逾10亿块玻璃屏，每一块的厚度远小于1毫米。
“This is an industry that requires highly sophisticated technology,” says Stone Wu, an analyst at IHS Technology, the research firm. “If you have a ruler, check out how thin 0.5 millimeters is, and you’ll understand how hard it is to manufacture something that thin.”
“这是个需要高精技术的行业，”研究公司IHS科技(IHS Technology)的分析师斯通·吴(Stone Wu)表示。“如果你有一把尺子，检查出0.5毫米有多薄，你就会明白那样厚度的东西有多么难以制造了。”
In creating a global supplier, Ms. Zhou, 44, has come to define a new class of female entrepreneurs in China who have built their wealth from scratch — a rarity in the world of business. In Japan, there is not a single self-made female billionaire, according to Forbes. In the United States and Europe, most women who are billionaires secured their wealth through inheritance.
在打造一家全球供应商的过程中，44岁的周群飞定义了中国女性创业者这个新阶层。她们白手起家，创造出了自己的财富，这在商界不多见。从福布斯(Forbes)的数据来看，日本没有一位白手起家的女性亿万富翁。在美国和欧洲，大部分女性亿万富翁的财富是通过继承得来的。
No country has more self-made female billionaires than China. The Communist party, under Mao Zedong, promoted gender equality, allowing women to flourish after capitalism started to take hold, according to Huang Yasheng, an expert in China’s entrepreneurial class and a professor of international management at M.I.T. And in a country with few established players, entrepreneurs like Ms. Zhou were able to quickly make their mark when they entered business in the 1990s as China’s economic engine was revving up.
中国靠自身奋斗成为亿万富翁的女性是全世界最多的。据研究中国企业家阶层的专家、麻省理工学院（Massachusetts Institute of Technology，简称MIT）国际管理教授黄亚生介绍，毛泽东在位时，共产党提倡男女平等，让女性得以在资本主义开始产生影响后发展起来。90年代，随着中国的经济引擎加速，在鲜有老牌市场参与者的中国，像周群飞这样的创业者能够迅做出成绩。
Ms. Zhou’s stake in Lens Technology, which went public this year, is worth $7.2 billion. That puts her fortune on par with the media tycoon John C. Malone and Pierre Omidyar, the founder of eBay.
周群飞在今年上市的蓝思科技的股份价值72亿美元。这使她的财富与媒体大亨约翰·C·马龙(John C. Malone)和eBay创始人皮埃尔·奥米迪亚(Pierre Omidyar)不相上下。
Ms. Zhou isn’t a celebrity chieftain, like Jack Ma, the billionaire founder of Alibaba, the e-commerce giant. Few in China had even heard her name before her company’s public offering this year. She rarely grants interviews or makes public appearances.
周群飞不是电商巨头阿里巴巴的创始人、亿万富翁马云那样的明星商业领袖。在公司今年公开发售之前，中国连听说过她名字的人都很少。她很少接受采访或公开露面。
An elegant woman with a cherubic face, owlish glasses and a preference for Christian Dior suits, Ms. Zhou is fastidious and demanding — “sit up straight!” she commands of a general manager during a meeting. Yet she exudes charm and humility, a quiet recognition that things could have easily turned out differently.
周群飞举止高雅，长着一张孩子脸，戴一副猫头鹰眼睛，偏爱迪奥套装。一丝不苟、要求苛刻的她曾在一次会议上命令一名总经理“坐直！”但她也散发出魅力和谦逊。这是在默默承认，情况本来很有可能不同于现在。
“In the village where I grew up, a lot of girls didn’t have a choice of whether to go to middle school. They would get engaged or married and spend their entire life in that village,” she said in an interview at her office where there was a wooden statue of Mao and a 27-inch desktop Mac. “I chose to be in business, and I don’t regret it.”
“在我长大的那个村子，很多女孩子没有去不去上中学的选择。她们会订婚或是嫁人，在村里过一辈子，”她在自己的办公室里接受采访时说。她的办公室里有一尊木质的毛泽东塑像，还有一台27寸的台式Mac。“我选择了从商，我不后悔。”
The youngest of three children, Ms. Zhou was born in a tiny village in central China’s Hunan province, a farming community about two hours south of Changsha, the provincial capital. Her mother died when she was 5. Her father, a skilled craftsman, later lost a finger and most of his eyesight in an industrial accident.
在三个孩子中排行最小的周群飞，出生在湖南省的一个小村庄。那里以务农为主，位于省会长沙以南，离长沙大约两小时路程。母亲在她五岁时去世。她的父亲是一名技术精湛的手艺人，后来在一起工伤事故中失去了一根手指头和大部分视力。
At home, she helped her family raise pigs and ducks for food and additional money. At school, she excelled.
在家里，她帮着养猪养鸭。猪和鸭子既能自己吃，也能卖钱。在学校，她表现突出。
“She was a hardworking and talented student,” Zhong Xiaobai, her former middle-school teacher, says. “I once read her essay, ‘My Mother,’ aloud in class. It was so moving it brought everyone to tears.”
“她是一个刻苦、有天分的学生，”她的初中老师钟小白（音）说。“我有一次在班上大声念过她的作文《我的妈妈》。非常感人，所有人都落泪了。”
Despite her academic focus, Ms. Zhou dropped out of school at 16 and traveled south to Guangdong province, to live with her uncle’s family and search for better work. While she dreamed of becoming a fashion designer, she eventually landed a job on a factory floor in the city of Shenzhen, making watch lenses for about $1 a day.
尽管学业不差，但周群飞还是在16岁时辍学了。她南下广东，和他的叔叔一家生活在一起，只为寻找更好的工作。尽管她当时的梦想是成为一名时装设计师，但最后却是在深圳的一个工厂车间里找到了一份制作玻璃表镜的工作，工资约为每天1美元。
The conditions, she said, were harsh. “I worked from 8 a.m. to 12 a.m., and sometimes until 2 a.m.,” Ms. Zhou recalled. “There were no shifts, just a few dozen people, and we all polished glass. I didn’t enjoy it.”
她说那里的环境非常艰苦。“我从早上8点工作到晚上12点，甚至到凌晨2点，”周群飞回忆道。“没有轮班，只有几十个人，都在不停打磨玻璃。我不喜那份工作。”
After three months, she decided to quit and wrote a letter of resignation to her boss. In it, she complained about the hours and boredom. Even so, she expressed her gratitude for the job, saying she wanted to learn more.
三个月后，她决定辞职，并给她的老板写了一封辞职信。她在信中抱怨工作时间长，而且太单调。即便如此，她还是表达了自己对这份工作的感激，说自己想学习更多东西。
The letter impressed the factory chief, who told her the plant was about to adopt new processes. He asked her to stay, offering her a promotion. It was the first of several over the next three years.
这份信引起工厂领导的注意，他告诉周群飞工厂即将采用新流程。他请她留下来，并提出给她升职。接下来三年，她数度升职。
In 1993, Ms. Zhou, then 22, decided to set out on her own. With $3,000 in savings, she and several relatives started their own workshop next door. They lured customers with the promise of even higher-quality watch lenses.
1993年，22岁的周群飞决定自己创业。她拿着自己的3000美元积蓄，和几位亲戚在老东家旁边开了自己的作坊。他们吸引顾客的方式是承诺提供质量更高的表镜。
At the new company, Ms. Zhou did it all. She repaired and designed factory machinery. She taught herself complex screen-printing processes and difficult techniques that allowed her to improve prints for curved glass.
在新公司里，周群飞什么活都干。她修理和设计工厂的机械设备，还自学复杂的丝网印刷工艺和有难度的技术，以改善曲面玻璃上的印刷效果。
“In the Hunan language, we call women like her ‘ba de man,’ which means a person who dares to do what others are afraid to do,” said her cousin Zhou Xinyi, who helped her open the workshop and now serves on the Lens board. Along the way, Zhou Qunfei married her former factory boss, had a child and divorced. She later married a longtime factory colleague, who serves on the Lens board, and had a second child.
“在湖南话里，我们形容她这样的女人是‘霸得蛮’，就是说，一个人有勇气做其他人不敢做的事，”周群飞的堂姐妹周新益说道。她帮助周群飞开了自己的工厂，现在是蓝思科技的董事。这段时间里，周群飞曾嫁给了她之前工作的那个工厂的老板，育有一子，之后二人离了婚。后来，她又和在她工厂里工作多年的同事结婚，并和他有了自己的第二个孩子。她的第二任丈夫也是公司董事会成员之一。
Her work habits lean toward the obsessive. Her company’s headquarters is at one of her manufacturing plants in Changsha. In her spacious office, a door behind her desk opens into a small apartment, ensuring she can roam the factory floor day or night.
周群飞有点工作狂。公司总部在他们位于长沙的其中一个制造厂内。在她的宽敞办公室里的办公桌后，有一扇门通向一套小公寓，这个住所可以让她不管白天夜晚都能巡视工厂车间。
It was the mobile phone that made Ms. Zhou a billionaire.
让周群飞成为亿万富翁的是手机。
In 2003, she was still making glass for watches when she received an unexpected phone call from executives at Motorola. They asked if she was willing to help them develop a glass screen for their new device, the Razr V3.
2003年，还在制造表镜的她，意外地收到了来自摩托罗拉高管的电话，问她是否愿意帮助他们为其新手机Razr V3开发一种玻璃屏。
At the time, the display screens on most mobile phones were made of plastic. Motorola wanted a glass display that would be more resistant to scratches and provide sharper images for text messages, photos and multimedia.
当时，大多数手机上的显示屏都是塑料材质的。摩托罗拉想要一种玻璃显示屏，可以更耐刮蹭，文本、图片和多媒体的呈现也更清晰。
“I got this call, and they said, ‘Just answer yes or no, and if the answer’s yes, we’ll help you set up the process,’ ” Ms. Zhou recalled. “I said yes.”
“我接到这个电话，他们说，‘你只需要回答，愿意还是不愿意，如果愿意，我们会帮你设立工艺流程，’”周群飞回忆道。“我说了愿意。”
Soon after, orders started rolling in from other mobile phone makers like HTC, Nokia and Samsung. Then, in 2007, Apple entered the market with the iPhone, which had a keyboard-enabled glass touch screen that rewrote the rules of the game for mobile devices. Apple picked Lens as its supplier, propelling Ms. Zhou’s company into a dominant position in China.
不久，来自HTC、诺基亚和三星等其他手机厂商的订单也纷至沓来。然后，在2007年，苹果携iPhone进入了手机市场，它有着可以实现键盘式输入的玻璃触摸屏，这改写了移动设备的游戏规则。苹果选择了蓝思科技作为它的供应商，一举让周群飞的公司成为中国这一市场领域的主导者。
After that, Ms. Zhou invested heavily in new facilities and hired skilled technicians. More than once, colleagues say, she put up her apartment as a guarantee for a new bank loan. Within five years, she had manufacturing plants under construction in three cities.
此后，周群飞在新设备上大力投资，还聘请了有经验的技术人员。同事表示，为了拿到新的贷款，她不止一次把自家公寓抵押给银行。不到五年的时间，她的生产厂建设项目就扩展到了三座城市。
“She’s a passionate entrepreneur, and she’s very hands-on,” says James Hollis, an executive at Corning, which has a partnership with Lens Technology. “I’ve watched her company grow, and her develop a strong team. Now, there are over 100 competitors in this space, but Lens is a Tier 1 player.”
“她是充满激情的创业家，又凡事亲力亲为，”在蓝思科技的合作伙伴康宁公司(Corning)担任高管的詹姆斯·霍利斯(James Hollis)说。“我亲眼看着她的公司成长起来，组建起一支强大的团队。现在这个领域有上百家公司在竞争，不过蓝思属于第一梯队。”
Lens operates round-the-clock, with 75,000 workers spread across three main manufacturing facilities that occupy about 800 acres in the Changsha region. Each day, the company receives bulk shipments of glass from global manufacturers like Corning in the United States and Asahi Glass in Japan.
蓝思日以继夜地开工，有7.5万员工分布在长沙地区占地约3.2平方公里的主厂区内。每天，公司都要从美国的康宁和日本的旭硝子(Asahi Glass)等全球生产商那里接收大量的玻璃。
The glass is cut, ground down to size, bored with holes and polished to give each plate a transparent finish. Then the plates are strengthened in a potassium ion bath, painted and cured. Finally, they are cleaned and coated with anti-smudge and anti-reflection films.
这些玻璃随后要经过切割、打磨、钻孔和抛光的工序来让每一块面板拥有透明表面。接下来，玻璃面板在锂盐浴里强化、涂布和烘干。最后，经过清洁的面板再涂上抗污渍和抗反射膜。
Ms. Zhou designs and choreographs nearly every step of the process, a detailed-oriented approach she traces to her childhood. “My father had lost his eyesight, so if we placed something somewhere, it had to be in the right spot, exactly, or something could go wrong,” she said. “That’s the attention to detail I demand at the workplace.”
周群飞设计、安排了工艺流程的几乎每一步，她称这种专注于细节的态度从儿时就有了。“我爸爸眼睛看不见，所以如果我们把某个东西放在某个地方，必须放在非常精确的位置，否则就会有问题，”她说。“我要求工作时要有这种关注细节的态度。”
Lens has not been troubled by the kinds of labor troubles that have clouded other contract manufacturers like Foxconn. But current and former workers say the job is challenging. Much of the work is done by young women who inspect glass at different angles, trying to detect flaws.
蓝思科技不像富士康等外包生产商一样，受到劳工问题的困扰。但现有工人及前员工表示，他们的工作很有挑战。大部分工作由年轻女性完成，她们从不同的角度检查玻璃，以发现缺陷。
“As a quality inspector, I had to stare at those products all day long, so this is a tiring job,” said Gao Zhimei, who recently left Lens Technology. “But I should say that working in manufacturing is always tiring and working at Lens is not more tiring than working in other factories.”
“作为一名质检员，我必须整天盯着这些产品，所以这份工作很累，”最近从蓝思科技离职的高志美（音） 说。“但我想在制造业工作都会很累，在蓝思工作并不比在其他工厂工作累。”
Lens Technology went public in March, as the Chinese stock market was booming. With the recent market collapse, the company has lost 45 percent in value, but it is still worth about $8 billion.
蓝思科技于今年3月上市，当时中国股市正在暴涨。随着最近的崩盘，该公司的市值损失了45%，但仍在80亿美元左右。
Last year, the company notched revenue of about $2.4 billion. Profit rose 40 percent in the first quarter. But Lens gets nearly 75 percent of its revenue from Apple and Samsung, making the company reliant on just two customers. In May, at the first shareholder meeting since going public, an investor pressed the company about how it planned to maintain an edge in a hypercompetitive market that thrives on innovation.
去年，该公司获得24亿美元营收。第一季度的利润增长了40%。但蓝思科技将近75%的收入都来自苹果和三星，命悬于仅仅两家客户。今年5月，在上市以来的首次股东大会上，一名投资者要求该公司说明，他们计划如何在这个依靠创新发展、竞争极端激烈的市场保持优势。
Several executives tried to answer the question. Then Ms. Zhou spoke up, saying she was prepared to diversify the company’s business, with production facilities geared toward higher-end glass, as well as sapphire and ceramic.
几名高管尝试回答这个问题。后来，周群飞明确表示，她准备促使公司业务实现多元化，让生产朝着高端玻璃以及蓝宝石和陶瓷的方向发展。