WASHINGTON — President Obama’s formal request for congressional authorization to fight the Islamic State — once framed by lawmakers as a matter of great constitutional import — is now seriously imperiled because Republicans think it does too little and Democrats think it does too much.
华盛顿——议员们曾经认为，奥巴马总统向国会发出授权与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)作战的正式请求，是于宪法至关重要的大事，但现在这个请求陷入了重大困境，因为共和党人认为它远远不够，民主党人却认为它已经大大逾份。
And neither the White House nor many members of Congress seemed in any rush to bridge the divide.
但无论是白宫，还是国会里的很多议员，似乎都不急于弥合这种鸿沟。
Secretary of State John Kerry and other top administration officials urged members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday to approve Mr. Obama’s request, but it was clear during the contentious three-hour session that lawmakers were far from reaching any agreement.
本周三，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和其他高级政府官员敦促美国参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)批准奥巴马的请求，但很明显，三个小时的会议上充满了争执，议员们远未达成任何协议。
When Mr. Obama, in his news conference after the midterm elections in November, announced he would seek specific authorization from Congress, he said, “The world needs to know we are united behind this effort.” But after the proposal went to Congress, there is little evidence that the administration has lobbied members to win support for its request, and few suggestions that Democratic and Republican lawmakers are successfully working toward an alternative.
奥巴马在去年11月中期选举后的新闻发布会上宣布，自己将向国会寻求特别授权，当时他说，“这个世界需要知道我们在这件事上团结一致。”但当这个提议送到国会之后，几乎没有证据表明政府为了获得支持而游说议员，也几乎也没有迹象表明民主党和共和党议员正在顺利地探讨替代方案。
Despite urging Congress to pass the authorization for military action, Mr. Kerry, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all made clear that they believed the administration already had the legal authority to pursue its military campaign against the Islamic State under two previous authorizations: one in 2001 allowing the president to fight a global war against Al Qaeda and its affiliates, and one in 2002 that enabled President George W. Bush to wage war in Iraq.
尽管克里、国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)和参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)敦促国会通过关于军事行动的授权，但他们都明确表示相信政府已经拥有相应的法定权力，可以开展针对伊斯兰国的军事行动，这种权力来自之前的两个授权：一是2001年允许总统开展全球战争，打击基地组织及其分支机构的授权，另一个是2002年让乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)得以发动伊拉克战争的授权。
“The president already has statutory authority to act against ISIL,” Mr. Kerry said, referring to the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS. “But a clear and formal expression of this Congress’s backing at this moment in time would dispel doubts that might exist anywhere that Americans are united in this effort.”
“总统本来就已经拥有采取行动对付ISIL的法定权力，”克里说。ISIL指的是伊斯兰国，它也被称为ISIS。“但是，有些地方的有些人可能会觉得美国人在这个问题上不团结，国会如能在这个时候明确正式地表示支持，就会消除这种怀疑。”
Mr. Kerry also called on Congress to speak “with a single powerful voice at this pivotal hour.”
克里还呼吁国会“在这个关键时刻用统一的、有力的声音”发言。
But given that military operations have been underway for months, the White House views the resolution as symbolically important but not required.
但鉴于军事行动已经开展了几个月，白宫将授权视为具有象征意义的大事，却也并非必需。
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, a member of the committee and a likely 2016 presidential hopeful, expressed frustration with the administration’s willingness to continue its military campaign with or without congressional authorization. “It’s disdainful to say, ‘Well, you know, we want y’all to pass something, but it doesn’t really matter because we’ll just use 2001,’ which is just absurd,” Mr. Paul said. “And it just means that Congress is inconsequential.”
肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)是该委员会的成员，有可能成为2016年总统候选人。对于政府不管国会的授权与否，都会继续采取军事行动的做法，他表示了失望：“他们说，‘嗯，你懂的，我们希望你们能通过那个东西，但它其实并不重要，因为我们用2001年的那个授权就可以了，’这很可恶，根本是荒谬，”保罗说。“就相当于说国会无关紧要。”
For now, the legislation appears to be faltering under the collective weight of lawmakers who all remain wary, but for very different reasons. Democrats worry that the authorization allows the country to embroil itself in another endless conflict overseas, while Republicans say it unnecessarily limits the president’s ability to fight the Islamic State effectively, including the potential for American ground troops.
目前，国会议员们全都持谨慎态度，让这项立法似乎陷入窘境。但这种态度背后的原因是不同的：民主党担心授权会让美国在海外卷入另一场难以摆脱的冲突，而共和党认为其实没有必要授权，因为这会限制总统有效打击伊斯兰国的能力，包括美国地面部队行动的能力。
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the committee, said he did not know of “a single Democrat” who supported the administration’s current request, and he warned, “What that does on this side of the aisle is put Republican senators in the position of looking at a limited authorization for the use of military force that, in some ways, ratifies a strategy, especially in Syria, that many people do not believe is effective.”
外交关系委员会主席鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)是田纳西州共和党参议员，他说他不知道“有哪个民主党人”支持政府的这个请求。他还警告说，“它对过道这一侧产生的影响在于，共和党参议员觉得这个授权会在使用武力方面加以限制，从某些方面来说，将会导致政府制定出一种很多人都觉得没用的战略，尤其是在叙利亚。”
Earlier in the week, Mr. Corker warned, “One of the things we don’t want to do is embark on a plan that leads nowhere.”
本周早些时候，考克警告说，“我们不想制定一个没前途的计划。”
But the rationale for the Democrats’ position is completely opposite that of the Republicans.
但是，民主党立场背后的理由与共和党完全相反。
Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the top Democrat on the committee, said his party was not willing to give the president “a blank check” or “an open-ended authorization for war.”
新泽西州参议员、委员会首席民主党人罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)说，他的党派不愿意给总统“一张空白支票”，或是“无限制的战争授权”。
The White House’s proposed legislation would prohibit the use of “enduring offensive ground combat operations” and limit the engagement to three years, an approach that Mr. Carter said was a “sensible and principled provision.” It would also repeal Congress’s 2002 authorization of force, while leaving in place the 2001 measure.
白宫提议的法规将禁止使用“持续性的地面作战行动”，并把战争时间限制为三年。卡特说，这种策略是一种“明智而有原则的规定”。它还将废除国会2002年的武力授权，同时保留2001年的议案。
“I cannot tell you that our campaign to defeat ISIL would be completed in three years,” Mr. Carter said. But, he added, “the president’s proposed authorization affords the American people the chance to assess our progress in three years’ time and provides the next president and the next Congress the opportunity to reauthorize it, if they find it necessary.”
“我无法告诉你，我们打败ISIL的行动将在三年内完成，”卡特说。但是，他补充道，“总统提出的授权，让美国人民可以对我们在三年内所取得的进展进行评估，并且为下一任总统和下一届国会提供了一个对它进行重新授权的时机——如果他们认为有必要的话。”
The debate over military action has been further complicated by partisan friction over the administration’s negotiations to freeze Iran’s nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of some sanctions, an effort many Republicans strongly oppose.
政府希望通过协商，以冻结伊朗核项目为条件，来换取一些制裁的解除，许多共和党人都对此举表示强烈反对。由于各党派在这个问题上存在摩擦，有关军事行动的争论也变得更加复杂。
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and also a likely 2016 presidential hopeful, said he believed that “much of our strategy with regards to ISIS is being driven by a desire not to upset Iran so that they don’t walk away from the negotiating table on the deal that you’re working on.”
佛罗里达州共和党参议员、另一名可能角逐总统职位的人选马克·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)称，他认为“我们关于ISIS的很多策略背后，都有避免得罪伊朗的动机，这样他们才不会你正在努力促成的谈判”。
“Tell me why I’m wrong,” Mr. Rubio pressed Mr. Kerry.
卢比奥逼问克里，“你说我的话哪里有错了？”
“Because the facts completely contradict that,” Mr. Kerry replied.
克里回答道，“因为事实与之截然相反。”
Mr. Kerry, at the urging of a Democratic senator, also criticized a recent open letter to Iran’s leadership that warned about any nuclear agreement, calling it “quite stunning.” The letter was drafted by Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, and signed by 47 Republicans. “My reaction to the letter was utter disbelief,” Mr. Kerry said.
在一名民主党参议员的强烈要求下，克里还批评了最近给伊朗领导层的一封公开信——此信对核协议进行了警告——称之“相当惊人”。这封信由阿肯色州参议员汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)起草，并附有47名共和党人的签名。克里说，“我对这封信的反应就是完全不相信。”
Mr. Paul, who signed the letter, made a point of telling the administration officials that “the letter was to you.”
在此信上署名的保罗特意告诉政府官员，“这封信是给你们的。”
“The letter was to Iran, but it should’ve been CC’d to the White House because the White House needs to understand that any agreement that removes or changes legislation will have to be passed by us,” Mr. Paul said.
保罗说，“这封信原本是给伊朗的，但它应该被抄送给白宫，因为白宫需要弄清楚，任何移除或改变法规的协议都必须经过我们批准。”
After the hearing, Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, said that although he did not like the language the administration had sent over, he would reserve judgment until a final proposal came out of the committee, and that he remained modestly optimistic.
听证会后，弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员蒂莫西·凯恩(Timothy Kaine)说，尽管他不喜欢政府的措辞，他还是会在委员会拿出最后提案之前保留自己的意见，而且他仍然保持着一定程度的乐观。