President Barack Obama has been excoriated for declaring that “we don't have a strategy yet” for effectively confronting the Islamic State group. In criticizing Obama for taking too much time, Rep. Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told “Fox News Sunday” that “this `don't-do-stupid-stuff' policy isn't working.” That sounded odd to my ear — like we should just bomb somebody, even if it is stupid. If Obama did that, what would he be ignoring?
因为宣布有效抗击伊斯兰国（Islamic State，通称ISIS）组织的“策略还没有成型”，贝拉克·奥巴马总统遭受了猛烈抨击。众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)主席、共和党人麦克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)在《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)中批评奥巴马耗费了太多时间，称“那个什么‘不做傻事’的政策根本不管用。”在我听来，这一论调着实奇怪，好像我们应该直接去往别人头上扔炸弹，就算傻也没关系。假如奥巴马那么做了，他会忽略哪些问题呢？
First, experience. After 9/11 that sort of “fire, ready, aim” approach led George W. Bush to order a ground war in Iraq without sufficient troops to control the country, without a true grasp of Iraq's Shiite-Sunni sectarian dynamics and without any realization that, in destroying the Sunni Taliban regime in Afghanistan and the Sunni Baathist regime in Iraq, we were destroying both of Iran's mortal enemies and thereby opening the way for a vast expansion of Iran's regional influence. We were in a hurry, myself included, to change things after 9/11, and when you're in a hurry you ignore complexities that come back to haunt you later.
首先是历史教训。9·11后那种“开炮、预备、瞄准”的策略让乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在下令进行伊拉克地面战争的时候，既没有足够的军队来控制该国的局面，又没有真正理解伊拉克什叶派和逊尼派之间的宗派关系，也没有意识到，推翻了同为逊尼派的阿富汗塔利班政权和伊拉克社会复兴党政权，我们也就同时摧毁了伊朗的两大劲敌，从而为它扩大区域影响力大开方便之门。那时候，我们——包括我在内——心急火燎地要在9·11之后扭转乾坤。人一着急，就会忽略事情的复杂性，迟早要因此吃苦头。
There are no words to describe the vileness of the video beheadings of two U.S. journalists by the Islamic State, but I have no doubt that they're meant to get us to overreact, à la 9/11, and rush off again without a strategy. The Islamic State is awful, but it is not a threat to America's homeland.
语言无法形容ISIS将两名美国记者斩首的视频之邪恶。但我深信，这些视频的目的是要刺激我们反应过度，就像9·11那样，没有成型的策略就匆忙上阵。ISIS的确坏透了，但它对美国本土并不构成威胁。
Second, the context. To defeat the Islamic State, you have to address the context out of which it emerged. And that is the three civil wars raging in the Arab world today: the civil war within Sunni Islam between radical jihadists and moderate mainstream Sunni Muslims and regimes; the civil war across the region between Sunnis funded by Saudi Arabia and Shiites funded by Iran; and the civil war between Sunni jihadists and all other minorities in the region: Yazidis, Turkmen, Kurds, Christians, Jews and Alawites.
其次是地区环境。要想击败ISIS，必须应对孕育了它的环境。今天的阿拉伯世界同时打着三场内战：逊尼派伊斯兰教徒中间，激进的圣战分子与温和的主流逊尼派穆斯林及其政权之间的内战；沙特阿拉伯资助的逊尼派与伊朗资助的什叶派之间在该地区各处爆发的内战；以及逊尼派圣战分子与地区内其他所有少数群体之间的内战：雅兹迪人、土库曼人、库尔德人、基督徒、犹太人和阿拉维派。
When you have a region beset by that many civil wars at once, it means there is no center, only sides. And when you intervene in the middle of a region with no center, you very quickly become a side.
当一个地区同时受到多场内战困扰的时候，就意味着不存在中间派，只有选边站队。而当你出手干预一个没有中间派的地区时，你很快就会沦为其中一方。
The Islamic State emerged as an extreme expression of resentment by one side: Iraqi and Syrian Sunnis who felt cut out of power and resources by the pro-Iranian Shiite regime in Baghdad and the pro-Iranian Alawite/Shiite regime in Damascus. That is why Obama keeps insisting that the United States' military intervention must be accompanied, for starters, by Iraqis producing a national unity government — of mainstream Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds — so our use of force supports pluralism and power-sharing, not just Shiite power.
ISIS的出现，极其尖锐地表现出了其中一方，即伊拉克和叙利亚逊尼派的怨恨。他们觉得自己的权力和资源，被巴格达亲伊朗的什叶派政权，以及大马士革亲伊朗的阿拉维派/什叶派政权剥夺了。这就是奥巴马为何一直坚持要求，美国进行军事干涉的同时，伊拉克必须首先成立一个由主流什叶派、逊尼派和库尔德人组成的全国性联合政府，这样我们用武力支持的就是多元主义和权力分享，而不仅是什叶派的权力。
But power-sharing doesn't come easy in a region where kinship and sectarian loyalties overwhelm any sense of shared citizenship. Without it, though, the dominant philosophy is either: “I am strong, why should I compromise?” or “I am weak, how can I compromise?” So any onslaught we make on the Islamic State, absent national unity governments, will have Shiites saying the former and Sunnis saying the latter. That's why this is complicated.
但在该地区，血缘关系和宗派忠诚高于对同是一个国家的公民的认同感，所以权力分享并非易事。然而，如果没有权力分享，占主导地位的理念或者是：“我很强大，为什么要妥协？”或者是：“我本来就弱小，怎么能妥协？”因此，如果没有一个全国性的联合政府，我们对ISIS进行任何攻击，都会促使什叶派说出前一句话，逊尼派说出后一句话。这正是事情的复杂之处。
And this is a sectarian power struggle. Consider a Times article last week about how the Islamic State is actually being led by a combination of jihadists and disgruntled Sunni Iraqi Baathist army officers, who were shoved aside either by us or by Iraq's Shiite-dominated governments.
这是一场带有宗派色彩的权力斗争。想想《纽约时报》上周发表的一篇文章吧。那篇文章讲述的是，领导ISIS的实际上是圣战主义者，和心怀不满的逊尼派伊拉克复兴社会党军官。这些军官不是被我们，就是被由什叶派控制的伊拉克政府排挤到了一边。
The Times article noted: “After the Islamic State stormed into Mosul, one (Shiite Iraqi) official recalled a startling phone call from a (Sunni) former major general in one of Saddam's elite forces. The former general had appealed months earlier to rejoin the Iraqi army, but the official had refused. Now the general was fighting for Islamic State and threatened revenge. `We will reach you soon, and I will chop you into pieces,' he said, according to the official, Bikhtiyar al-Qadi, of the commission that bars some former members of Saddam's Baath Party from government posts.”
《纽约时报》的那篇文章写道：“在ISIS攻入摩苏尔后，一名（什叶派伊拉克）官员想起了一通令人惊恐的电话通话，打电话来的是一名曾在萨达姆的精英部队任职的（逊尼派）少将。几个月前，这名前少将请求重新加入伊拉克军队，但被这名官员拒绝了。如今，这名少将正在为ISIS作战，并威胁要进行报复。这个官员名为比克赫提耶尔·加迪(Bikhtiyar al-Qadi)，是一个负责禁止萨达姆的复兴社会党(Baath Party)前成员担任政府职务的委员会的成员，他说，那名少将告诉他，‘我们很快就会抓到你，我会把你碎尸万段。’”
Repeat after me: “We will reach you soon, and I will chop you into pieces.” That is what we are dealing with here — multiple, venomous civil wars that are the breeding ground of the Islamic State cancer.
请跟着我重复一遍：“我们很快就会抓到你，我会把你碎尸万段。”这就是我们在这里面临的局势：好几场充斥着敌意的内战。它们正是ISIS这个毒瘤的温床。
Third, our allies are not fully allies: While the Saudi, Qatari and Kuwaiti governments are pro-American, wealthy Sunni individuals, mosques and charities in these countries are huge sources of funds, and fighters, for the Islamic State.
第三点，我们的盟友并非完全是盟友：尽管沙特阿拉伯、卡塔尔和科威特的政府支持美国，但这些国家富裕的逊尼派个人、清真寺和慈善机构，是ISIS重要的资金和武装人员来源。