KIEV, Ukraine — When pro-Russian rebels first fanned out across eastern Ukraine in April, seizing public buildings, ousting local officials and blockading streets and highways, the government’s security forces — a ragtag lot of poorly equipped and understaffed military and police units — were largely paralyzed by dysfunction and defection. They seemed to remain so for months.
乌克兰基辅——4月，当亲俄罗斯的反对派首次开始在乌克兰东部展开大规模活动，占领公共建筑、驱逐当地官员、拦截街道和公路，政府安全部队——临时拼凑而成的装备落后、人员不足的军队和警察部队——因为运转不良和有人背叛，基本没有什么战斗力。连续数月，他们似乎一直如此。
In the past week, however, after President Petro O. Poroshenko called off a cease-fire and ordered his troops to end the rebellion by force, an entirely different Ukrainian military appeared to arrive at the front. Soldiers retook an important checkpoint at the Russian border, routed insurgents from the long-occupied city of Slovyansk, and, on Sunday, began to tighten a noose around the regional capital of Donetsk ahead of a potentially decisive showdown.
然而，当乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)上周取消停火协议，命令他的军队用武力结束叛乱后，前线似乎出现了一支完全不同的乌克兰军队。士兵们夺回乌俄边境的一个重要检查站，从反对派手中夺回了被长期占领的斯拉维扬斯克。周日，他们又开始收紧对顿涅茨克州的地区首府的包围，双方可能会展开一场决战。
The insurgency is far from over, and Ukraine’s leaders say they still fear a war with Russia that they would certainly lose. Still, the recent success, however tentative, reflects what officials and analysts described as a remarkable, urgent transformation of the military and security apparatus in recent months.
叛乱远未结束，乌克兰领导人表示，他们依然害怕和俄罗斯发生战争，因为他们必输无疑。然而，不管近期的胜利多么有限，都反映出军队和安保机构最近几个月发生了官员和分析人士所说的巨大而紧迫的变化。
“The military themselves learned to fight,” said Mykola Sungurovskyi, the director of military programs at the Razumkov Center, a policy research organization here in the capital of Ukraine.
“军队学会了如何作战，”拉祖姆科夫中心(Razumkov Center)军事项目负责人米克拉·孙古罗夫斯基(Mykola Sungurovskyi)说。该中心是乌克兰首都的一个政策研究组织。
By most standards, the Ukrainian armed forces remain in a pitiful state. But they have benefited from the enlistment of thousands of volunteers into new militias, financial donations by ordinary citizens — including a Kiev Internet-technology entrepreneur who raised $35,000 and built a surveillance drone — and an aggressive push to repair and upgrade armored personnel carriers and other equipment.
以大多数标准衡量，乌克兰武装部队的情况仍不乐观。但是，有数以千计的志愿者组成了新的民兵组织，还有普通市民的捐款——一名基辅互联网技术创业者筹集了3.5万美元（约合21.7万元人民币）并制造了一架无人侦察机——以及大力推动装甲运兵车和其他装备的维修和更新，都对军队产生了帮助。
There has also been aid from abroad. The United States has sent $23 million in security assistance since March, including $5 million for night-vision goggles, body armor, communications equipment and food.
外国也提供援助，自3月以来，美国提供了价值2300万美元的安全援助，其中包括500万美元，用于夜视镜、防弹衣、通讯设备和食品。
But even more important, experts said, was a reorganization of the chain of command and a crucial psychological shift: Soldiers surmounted a reluctance to open fire on their own countrymen, a serious issue after riot police officers killed about 100 protesters during civil unrest in Kiev last winter centered on Maidan, the main square.
但是专家说，更重要的是指挥系统的重组以及心理上的一个关键变化：士兵们克服了不愿朝自己的国民开火的问题——这个问题自去年冬季以来一直比较严重，当时在以基辅独立广场(Maidan)为中心的市民暴乱中，大约有100名抗议者死在了防暴警察手中。
“They have overcome that psychological barrier in which the military were afraid to shoot living people,” Mr. Sungurovskyi said. “They had this barrier after Maidan, after the death of that hundred — not simply to shoot living people, but their own people. After the forces were restructured a bit, and it became clear who were our people, who were foes, the operations became more effective.”
“军队原来不敢朝活人开火，现在他们克服了这个心理障碍，”孙古罗夫斯基说。“自从独立广场事件中死了大约100人以来，他们就出现了这种问题——不仅是朝活人开火，而且是朝自己的国民开火。在对军队进行重组后，谁是自己人谁是敌人就变得很明显了，于是行动也更有效率了。”
The biggest test is just ahead.
最大的考验就在眼前。
After fleeing south from Slovyansk, large numbers of rebels appeared Sunday to be regrouping in Donetsk, a city of one million, where any push to contain them will involve dangerous urban warfare. Signaling resilience, insurgents on Sunday seized a building belonging to the state penitentiary service.
自从从斯拉维扬斯克向南逃窜以后，大量反叛者周日又在顿涅茨克重新集结。这座城市拥有100万人口，如果对反叛者进行遏制，就会引发危险的巷战。为了显示自己的力量，反叛者周日占领了属于州监狱的一栋建筑物。
In Luhansk, the region’s second-largest city after Donetsk, other rebels attacked a jail, allowing eight prisoners to escape. In each case, officials said the rebels, after suffering losses, appeared to be searching for weapons. In recent days, rebel leaders have pleaded with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to send additional aid.
在该地区仅次于顿涅茨克的第二大城市卢甘斯克(Luhansk)，有些反叛者袭击了一座监狱，导致8名罪犯逃走。官员说，在每起事件中，遭受伤亡的反对派似乎都在搜寻武器。近日，反对派领导人还请求俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)给他们提供额外援助。
Officials and experts agreed that the most urgent task facing the Ukrainian government was sealing its border with Russia to prevent any further influx of fighters or weapons, and the military has made progress doing so. And though he is hardly trusted by Ukrainians, Mr. Putin also sent signals that he would not order a full-scale invasion, announcing, for instance, that Parliament had withdrawn formal authorization for him to use military force in Ukraine.
官员和专家表示，目前乌克兰政府最迫切的任务就是对乌克兰与俄罗斯的边境进行封锁，以防止武装人员或武器进一步涌入，军方也在这方面取得了进步。虽然乌克兰很不信任普京，但是普京已经暗示他不会命令俄军发动全面进攻。例如，他还宣称议会已经收回了让他在乌克兰使用武力的正式授权。
It is not clear why Mr. Putin eased some of the military pressure, but it appears as if he has decided to put his emphasis on peace talks being coordinated by a close friend of his, Viktor V. Medvedchuk, a Ukrainian businessman and political operative. Although similarly supported by the leaders of Germany and France, the talks have sputtered.
目前尚不清楚普京为什么会减轻军事方面的压力，但他似乎已经决定要把注意力放在和谈方面。他的密友、乌克兰商人及政治间谍维克多·V·梅德韦德丘克(Viktor V. Medvedchuk)在协调和谈事宜。虽然德国和法国领导人也表示了类似程度的支持，但和谈的进展并不顺利。
While the fears among officials of a Russian invasion and psychological barriers among Ukrainian troops were quite real, experts said that most of the obstacles confronting the Ukrainian military were far more concrete.
官员对俄罗斯入侵的恐惧，以及乌克兰军队存在的心理障碍都是确凿存在的，但是专家称，乌克兰军队面临的大多数障碍远比这些更具体。
When Russia invaded Crimea in February, for example, Ukraine’s military had shrunk to roughly 128,000 troops, including civilians — roughly one-tenth of its size during Soviet Union times. Of those, only a small fraction were prepared for fighting, said Oleksiy Melnyk, a former Air Force pilot and now a security analyst at the Razumkov Center.
例如，当俄罗斯2月入侵克里米亚时，乌克兰军队缩减到了大约12.8万人，包括平民在内——几乎是苏联时期的十分之一。前空军飞行员、现任拉祖姆科夫中心安全分析师的奥列克西·梅尔尼克(Oleksiy Melnyk)说，他们当中，只有一小部分做好了战斗准备。
As Ukrainian leaders considered how hard to push back, they had to confront the danger to civilians of fighting in heavily populated cities, as well as the risk of provoking a full-scale invasion by the conventional Russian forces massing along the border.
在考虑以何种力度发动反击时，乌克兰领导人必须考虑在人口密集的城市作战时给平民带来的危险，以及促使集结在边境沿线的俄罗斯常规军队发动全面侵略的风险。
It is a fight that experts said had to be carried out largely by special forces, carefully coordinated with the conventional military, including artillery and air force squadrons, which, in the end, have had a limited role.
专家称，这场战争应该主要由特种部队来打，他们需要仔细地与炮兵和空军等常规部队进行合作，不过这些部队最后发挥的作用都十分有限。
It is also a fight that Ukraine was not prepared for, but one that Andriy Parubiy, the leader of Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council, said should grab the attention of the world’s major powers because of its implications for modern conflict.
同时，乌克兰也还没有为这场战争做好准备，不过乌克兰国家安全和防务委员会(National Security and Defense Council)主席安德里·帕鲁比(Andriy Parubiy)说，由于这场战争会给现代冲突带来的影响巨大，它应该引起世界主要大国的注意。
“I am convinced that there are many other countries which are not ready — properly speaking, their armed forces are not ready, are unprepared, for this type of war,” Mr. Parubiy said in an interview last week. “We, of course, studied the experience of both Croatia and Israel, but here a lot of new features are added. And, if Russia sees that this experience is successful, this experience can very easily be used in any Baltic countries, and even in Belarus and Kazakhstan.”
“我相信还有许多其他国家都没有做好准备——更恰当的说法是，他们的武装部队还没有为这种战争做好准备，”帕鲁比在上周的采访中说。“我们当然研究了克罗地亚和以色列的经历，但这里有不少它们没有的特征。而且，如果俄罗斯认为这个经历是成功的，就可以把它轻而易举地用在任何波罗的海国家，甚至是白俄罗斯和哈萨克斯坦。”