WASHINGTON — Representative Paul D. Ryan may have temporarily receded into the Capitol shadows after his stinging vice-presidential defeat in November, but he remains a powerful presence among House Republicans, earning the respect of hard-line conservatives for his budget blueprint and the trust of anxious moderates for his pragmatism.
华盛顿——去年11月角逐副总统宝座失败之后，众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)也许暂时避开了国会山上的聚光灯，然而，他依然是众议院共和党阵营中的重要人物，他凭借自己的预算规划，赢得了强硬的保守派的尊敬，又凭借他的务实作风，赢得了心怀疑虑的温和派的信任。
Now, the impasse that has shuttered much of the government and steered the nation toward a default has offered the Wisconsin congressman a new opening to reassert himself — and suddenly a man who seemed in danger of being eclipsed as the face of his party has re-emerged as essential to its rescue.
现在，财政僵局已让许多政府部门停摆，并把美国推向债务违约的边缘，这一僵局给这名威斯康星州议员打开了一扇重塑自身地位的大门，作为共和党的代言人，这个看上去正面临失势危险的人突然之间东山再起，成了该党的救星。
“I want to get to a budget agreement,” Mr. Ryan said bluntly on Thursday, after House Republican leaders latched onto his plan to offer a short-term increase in the debt ceiling as a way forward on deficit reduction and tax reform talks. “We think this takes us in the right direction.”
瑞安在周四直截了当地说：“我想达成预算协议。”此前，众议院共和党领袖热情接纳了他的计划，该计划提出在短期内提高债务上限，以此推动赤字削减和税收改革对话。“我们认为，这个计划会把我们带入正确的方向。”
Mr. Ryan, 43, has immense credibility with conservatives for his “Path to Prosperity” budget, which proposed politically risky Medicare changes and deep tax cuts. Moderates see Mr. Ryan, who has broken with some conservatives over immigration, as a lawmaker with some flexibility. In many respects, his standing exceeds that of the party’s titular leader, Speaker John A. Boehner. Perhaps most important, Democrats believe that when Mr. Ryan drafts a plan, he can actually deliver the votes. They hold no such confidence in Mr. Boehner.
43岁的瑞安因提出“繁荣之路”(Path to Prosperity”)预算方案而深受保守派信任，该方案提出了蕴含政治风险的联邦医疗保险(Medicare)改革计划和大幅减税的举措。温和派把瑞安视为一名具有一定灵活性的议员，在移民问题上，他已经和一些保守派分道扬镳。在许多方面，他的声望比共和党名义上的领袖、众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)更胜一筹。也许最重要的是，民主党人相信，当瑞安拟定一个计划，他是能切实地拉来支持者的。他们对博纳则没有这样的信心。
“He’s still the intellectual center of Republicans in the House,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma, who serves as Mr. Ryan’s bridge between the House Budget and Appropriations Committees. “He’s a guy who commands universal respect in the conference and the trust of leadership, and he has credibility with the other side.”
俄克拉何马州共和党众议员汤姆·科尔(Tom Cole)说：“他依然是众议院共和党人的智慧核心。”科尔是瑞安在众议院预算委员会(Budget Committee)和拨款委员会(Appropriations Committee)的联络人。“他是一个在共和党大会上博得普遍尊重、也拥有领导层信任的人，他在民主党那边也有着良好信誉。”
Mr. Ryan’s association with the new urgency to find a way out of the fiscal crisis “quite frankly is a sign to Democrats that we’re awfully serious about this,” Mr. Cole said.
科尔说，在寻求解决财政危机的新一轮紧迫局势下，瑞安的加入“显然是在提醒民主党人，我们对这个问题绝对是认真对待的。”
Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Democratic chairwoman of the Senate Budget Committee, said her House counterpart’s low profile after last year’s loss reflected a pragmatic strategy of “not being the face of the flamethrowers” in the House.
华盛顿州民主党参议员、参议院预算委员会(Senate Budget Committee)主席帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)说，自去年败选后，众议院预算委员会主席瑞安就表现得相当低调，这表明了一种务实的策略，不愿意显得自己在众议院“充当破坏分子的代言人”。
But now, Mr. Ryan suddenly is everywhere, as his party tries to resolve the impasse those “flamethrowers” brought about. An opinion piece he wrote in The Wall Street Journal this week laid out what has now become the House Republican plan: a debt ceiling increase tied to changes to Medicare and Medigap plans that would save more than enough money to ease some of the across-the-board cuts to domestic and defense programs; a fast track for the comprehensive simplification of the tax code; and a demand for immediate, serious and structured negotiations with the White House and Democratic Senate.
可是现在，随着共和党试图化解“破坏分子”引发的僵局，瑞安开始出现在各种场合。他于本周在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)发表了一篇评论文章，阐述了他的计划，目前该计划已被众议院共和党阵营接纳。该计划建议，把提高债务上限、联邦医疗保险和补充医疗保险(Medigap)改革挂钩，这样可以节省足够多的资金，以部分缓和国内和国防项目全面削减的幅度；提案还建议加快全面简化税收法的进程；并要求立即与白宫和由民主党控制的参议院，展开严肃的、有条理的谈判。
The fact that Mr. Ryan’s plan quite obviously made no mention of the health care law as a bargaining chip quickly drew him scorn from some on the right, but to Democrats and more moderate Republicans, the sidelining of the health care fight immediately gave the plan credibility.
瑞安的提议明显没有提到要把医疗法案作为谈判的筹码，这一事实致使他迅速遭到一些右翼人士的奚落，不过，对民主党人和较温和的共和党人而言，医疗法案之争被搁置一边的做法，当即就为他的计划赢得了可信度。
He marketed his idea on Wednesday to the House’s hard-line conservatives in the Republican Study Committee, getting enough favorable reaction to pull in the Republican leadership. On Thursday, after Mr. Boehner presented it to the full Republican Conference, it became the official Republican position. As Mr. Boehner laid it out to the public, Mr. Ryan stood silently behind him.
本周三，他向共和党研究委员会(Republican Study Committee)内的强硬派众议员推销他的计划，获得的肯定性回应已经足以吸引共和党领导层加入进来。周四，博纳把他的计划提交给共和党全体大会，从而使它成为代表共和党正式立场的计划。当博纳公开阐述该计划时，瑞安默默地站在他背后。
On Friday, he will take his message to the Values Voters Summit, a meeting of social conservatives. But according to an advance text of his remarks, he will add words of caution: “This president, he won’t agree to everything we need to do. A budget agreement — with this president and this Senate — it won’t solve all of our problems.  But I hope it’s a start. I hope we can get a down payment on our debt.”
周五，他将把他的讯息传达给价值观选民峰会(Values Voters Summit)，一个社会保守人士的集会。不过据他事先发布的一个发言稿，他会添加一些警示性的言辞进去：“这个总统，他肯定不会我们需要什么就同意什么的。签一份预算协议——和这个总统，这个参议院——不会解决我们的全部问题。但是我希望这是一个开始。我希望我们能拿出偿债的首付款。”
Republicans and Democrats said Thursday that the success or failure of this new path forward will rest on Mr. Ryan’s shoulders. Republicans hope that with Mr. Ryan leading the charge, Washington will finally grapple with the true drivers of the federal budget deficit: entitlement programs like Medicare that are swelling as the population ages. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, said conversations between Mr. Ryan and the senators he will need on his side had already begun.
有共和党人和民主党人在周四说，这个新办法的成败就看瑞安的了。共和党人希望，有瑞安在前面冲锋陷阵，华盛顿终于可以去对付联邦财政赤字的罪魁祸首：像联邦医疗保险这样的福利项目正随着人口年龄增长而膨胀。俄亥俄州参议员罗布·波特曼(Rob Portman)说，瑞安和他需要拉拢的参议员已经开始对话了。
Democrats, closely examining the outlines of the Ryan plan, say he is showing a new modesty and a narrower vision than the one rejected by American voters in the 2012 presidential campaign. Back then, and even earlier this year, Mr. Ryan championed converting Medicare into a voucherlike program in which beneficiaries would be given fixed premium subsidies they would use to buy private health insurance.
民主党人正在详细审阅瑞安这份计划的纲要，他们说相比2012年总统大选上被美国选民否决的那份，现在的计划显示出了一种新的谦和态度和收窄的视野。在大选时，甚至直到今年早些时候，瑞安还在支持把联邦医疗保险改造成一种代金券式的项目，受益人得到的是固定额的保险补贴，用于购买私营医疗保险。
Now he is talking about means-testing Medicare to make richer beneficiaries pick up more of the tab and ensuring that taxpayers do not subsidize the private Medigap plans purchased by upper-income recipients to augment Medicare coverage. Versions of both of those proposals are in Mr. Obama’s budget for the current fiscal year.
现在他提出在联邦医保里实施经济状况调查，让富有的受益人承担更多，确保纳税人不用去补贴高收入阶层购买的私营补充医疗保险，从而扩大联邦医保的覆盖范围。这两项提案都有相应版本出现在当前这个财年的奥巴马政府预算里。
By not trying to do too much, Mr. Ryan may be able to do just enough, Ms. Murray said. In 2011, Mr. Ryan conspicuously declined to serve on a special select committee empaneled in the shadow of a debt ceiling fight that year to find a bipartisan path forward, worrying that the effort would tarnish his ambitions for higher office.
默里说，当瑞安不去做过多的事情时，他就有希望把该做的做好。2011年瑞安高调地拒绝了一个特别委员会的职务，该委员会是在那一年的债务上限纷争中为求两党共识而专门成立的，他当时担心，这样做对他在政治生涯里更上一层楼是没有好处的。
After Mr. Ryan became the face of his party’s most ambitious — and to critics, most radical — fiscal plans during the 2012 campaign, Ms. Murray and other Democrats groaned late last year when Mr. Boehner made him the leadership’s point man to resolve the “fiscal cliff,” the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that were to take place Jan. 1 if Congress failed to act.
共和党在2012年大选期间提出了一项最具抱负的——在批评者眼里是最冒进的——财政规划，瑞安成为这个规划的代言人，因此在博纳委派他主导解决“财政悬崖”的问题时，默里等民主党人怨声载道，当时如果国会不能拿出举措，到1月1日就要进行自动加税和减支。
“His vision was actually on the ballot, and Americans decided to go in a different direction,” Ms. Murray said in November.
“他的设想其实已经写在选票上了，而美国人决定往另一个方向走，”默里在去年11月说。
Ms. Murray and others have changed their assessment of the man after dozens of private meetings aimed at finding a bipartisan path forward. Democrats have been pressing for formal negotiations since April, when both chambers passed budget and tax policy blueprints that were starkly at odd. Ms. Murray and Mr. Ryan have believed for months that despite the vast policy gap, they could find common ground. The coming weeks may test whether that is true.
经过为寻求两党共识而举行的一系列不公开会议后，默里等人对瑞安的看法有所改变。民主党人自4月以来一直在呼吁进行正式谈判，国会两院此前刚刚各自通过了截然不同的预算和税收政策规划案。几个月来，默里和瑞安一直都坚信，尽管政策分歧巨大，他们还是可以找到共同点的。是否真能如此，接下来的几周可见分晓。
“Patty and I have a good relationship,” Mr. Ryan said Thursday. “We don’t agree on much but we get along well.”
“我和帕蒂关系不错，”瑞安在周四说，“我们有很多分歧，但相处融洽。”