A RESTORED FRENCH-CANADIAN-STYLE HOME IN QUEBEC
待售房产：加拿大魁北克省(Quebec)一栋翻新的法属殖民地风格房屋
550,000 CANADIAN DOLLARS ($493,993)
价格：55万加元（493993美元，约合人民币305.8万元）
This 1820 home in the Portneuf region of Quebec once served as an executive residence of a paper mill. Recognized as a building important to Quebec’s heritage, the home was moved in the 1980s to a historic site in the village of Deschambault-Grondines, said Josée Denis, the current owner.
魁北克波特纳夫区(Portneuf region)这栋1820年建造的房屋，曾为一造纸厂主管的宅邸。据现任业主乔希·丹尼斯(Josée Denis)说，由于该房屋被公认是一栋对魁北克文化遗产有重要意义的建筑，20世纪80年代，就被迁移到了德尚博-格龙丁斯(Deschambault Grondines)村的历史遗址上。
The plan was originally to have the house restored, but after about 14 years of neglect, it was put up for sale. Ms. Denis and her husband, Paul Claveau bought it, restoring the exterior in 2000. They also rebuilt the interiors, adding a similarly designed wing that houses a one-bedroom apartment and a workshop. A fondness for Victorian style led to embellishments including wood scrollwork on the eaves and etched glass on the doors, Ms. Beauregard said. The wood-frame home has a tin roof installed in 2004.
原本有计划翻修这栋房屋，但一拖就是14年。此后，该房屋便拿出来拍卖了。丹尼斯和她的丈夫保罗·克拉沃(Paul Claveau)买下了这栋房屋，并于2000年开始修复屋外的部分。他们还重新做了室内装修，并增加了一栋设计风格相似的侧翼建筑，内有一套单卧室公寓和一间工作室。因为喜欢维多利亚式风格，他们给房屋做了一些装饰，包括屋檐和屋门毛玻璃上的木质漩涡纹饰，博勒加德(Beauregard)说。这栋木框架的房屋于2004年铺了一层白铁皮屋顶。
The main entrance is off a veranda that spans two sides of the house. The first floor has a dining room, a kitchen, a sitting room, a library and a bathroom. The upstairs has three bedrooms and a bathroom. The apartment, which the owners rent out, is reached via a separate entrance, which also provides access to the workshop. Some floors are original hardwood; those that have been replaced are made of larch. The house has two wood-burning fireplaces — one each in the library and the workshop — as well as a gas-burning fireplace in the sitting room. The wood-burning Victor stove in the kitchen has been meticulously restored with old-style blue and gold tiles; the kitchen is also equipped with a gas stove by KitchenAid. The cabinets and the island are made with old spruce and have ceramic countertops. Furnishings are not included in the asking price.
房屋大门外是一条延伸到两侧的走廊。一楼有一间餐厅、一间厨房、一间起居室、一间书房和一间浴室。楼上有三间卧室和一间浴室。业主已出租的那套公寓可以从单独的入口进入，该入口也可通往工作间。屋内的部分地板是原来就有的实木；而那些已被替换的地板是落叶松木的。这栋房屋有两个燃柴的壁炉——书房与工作间里各有一个；起居室里还有一个燃气壁炉。厨房里那台燃柴的Victor炉灶已经一丝不苟地用老式蓝色与金色瓷砖复原了；这间厨房还配备了一个KitchenAid品牌的燃气灶。橱柜和岛台皆由云杉制成，铺了陶瓷台面。房产的要价中不包括家具。
The property has an acre, landscaped with fruit trees like apple and cherry. A building called the “gazebo” houses a six-person spa tub and a gas fireplace. There is also a structure serving as a garage and greenhouse. The village of Deschambault-Grondines, population about 2,000, has a general store, a chocolate shop, bistros and art galleries, along with the old Chevrotière Mill, a historic site. Downtown Quebec is a 45-minute drive; the airport is 30 minutes away.
这处房产占地一英亩（约合4046.8平方米），周围种着苹果、樱桃等果树。一座名为“瞭望台”(gazebo)的建筑，容纳了一个六人spa浴池和一个燃气壁炉。还有一处建筑用作车库兼温室。德尚博-格龙丁斯村的人口大约2000人，有一家杂货店、一家巧克力商店、几家小酒馆和一些艺术画廊，还有一处历史遗址：古老的Chevrotière磨坊。从这里开车到魁北克中心区要45分钟；去飞机场则是30分钟。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
During the decade ending in 2010, Quebec’s housing market was very dynamic, with home prices growing on average about 10 percent a year. The appreciation has slowed over the last few years, largely because of a slowdown in job creation in the province, said Marie-Elaine Denis, a market analyst with the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (and no relationship to Josée Denis).
在2010年之前的那十年里，魁北克的住宅市场十分动荡，房屋价格每年的涨幅大约在10%。过去几年，增幅已经放缓，主要因为该省的就业机会减少了。加拿大按揭与住房公司(Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation)的市场分析员玛丽-伊莱恩·丹尼斯(Marie-Elaine Denis)说（与乔希·丹尼斯并非亲属）。
After favoring sellers for a decade, the market is poised to tip the other way; prices are expected to increase by only 2 percent in 2014, she said. Buyers have already gained leverage in the condominium market, primarily because too many units were developed in recent years, she said.
市场让卖家受益了十年后，开始向买家倾斜；2014年的房产价格预计只会增长2%，玛丽-伊莱恩·丹尼斯说。买家们已在共管公寓的市场中取得了优势，主要因为这样的公寓近些年开发得太多了，她说。
The market continues to be attractive with foreign buyers, as it is one of the cheapest major housing markets in Canada, Marie-Elaine Denis said. “Comparing it to Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver, it’s still a quite affordable market,” Ms. Denis said. “If we think of U.S. buyers, it’s quite affordable for them.”
此处市场一直对外国买家很有吸引力，因为这里是加拿大最便宜的一处住房市场，玛丽-伊莱恩·丹尼斯说。“相比蒙特利尔、多伦多、温哥华，这里依然是个很经济的市场，”丹尼斯说，“如果想想美国的买家，这里的价格对他们来说就太实惠了。”
Most foreign buyers have traditionally been interested in condominiums in Old Quebec, but the market has been evolving, with more people looking at recreational properties outside Quebec City, among them ski chalets at Mont Tremblant, said Derek St-Hilaire, the listing broker, who is with Sotheby’s International Realty Quebec.
大多数外国买家一直都对老魁北克的共管公寓有兴趣，但是这块市场已经产生了变化，更多人打算在魁北克市的郊区购置度假房产，比如塔伯拉山(Mont Tremblant)的滑雪小屋。苏富比国际地产公司魁北克分部(Sotheby’s International Realty Quebec)的卖方经纪人德里克·圣希莱尔(Derek St-Hilaire)说。
“We have sold vineyards on Île d’Orleans and outfitters’ clubs to European and Chinese buyers, for instance,” he said. Other seekers have been interested in riverfront properties on the St. Lawrence.
“举例来说，我们已经把奥尔良岛(Île d’Orleans)上的葡萄园和户外俱乐部卖给了欧洲与中国的一些买家，”他说。另一些找房者则对圣劳伦斯(St. Lawrence)河边地区的房产很有兴趣。
Condos in central Quebec City typically sell for 350 to 450 Canadian dollars, or $314 to $404, per square foot, depending on their amenities, the number of parking spaces and what floor they’re on, Mr. St-Hilaire said. The average home price in the suburbs of Quebec City is about 250,000 Canadian dollars, or $225,000, though small towns like Deschambault-Grondines can be even less expensive.
魁北克市中心的共管公寓，一般每平方英尺的售价为350到450加元，或314到404美元（约合每平方米人民币20509到26387元），具体价格取决于该公寓的配套设施、停车位的数量以及楼层，圣希莱尔说。而魁北克市郊区的房屋，均价大约为每栋25万加元或22.5万美元（约合人民币136.9万元），不过在德尚博-格龙丁斯这样的小镇，房价可能还没有那么贵。
WHO BUYS IN QUEBEC CITY
谁在魁北克市买房
Most foreign buyers come from Europe, typically France, Britain, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland, Mr. St-Hilaire said. Of the Americans who buy in Quebec, many are from New England, which is not far away. Asian and Russian buyers, in particular, have increased in recent years, he said.
大多数外国买家来自欧洲，通常为法国、英国、比利时、德国和瑞士，圣希莱尔说。在魁北克买房的美国人，则很多都来自距此不远的新英格兰(New England)地区。其他特别是来自亚洲和俄罗斯的买家，近年来也一直有所增长，他说。
BUYING BASICS
购房的基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers in Quebec, said Stéphane Hardouin, a notary and partner in the law firm Sylvestre Lagassé in Sherbrooke, Quebec. For a standard property transaction, the buyer pays about $1,350 in notary fees. There is also a “welcome tax,” from 0.5 to 1.5 percent, depending on the price of the property, Mr. Hardouin said.
魁北克没有针对外国买家的限制，魁北克省舍布鲁克市(Sherbrooke)的Sylvestre Lagassé法律公司的公证人兼合伙人史蒂法纳·阿杜安(Stéphane Hardouin)说。在一桩标准的房地产交易中，买家需要支付一笔约为1350美元（约合人民币8212元）的公证费。另有一笔“欢迎税”(welcome tax)，税率根据地产的价格，从0.5%到1.5%不等。阿杜安说。
The real estate agent’s commission, usually 6 percent, is paid by the seller. Mortgages are available to foreign buyers, though they may be asked to make a larger down payment than citizens, Mr. Hardouin said.
房产经纪人的佣金通常是6%，由卖家支付。外国买家可以申请按揭贷款，但要求交纳的首付比本地居民多一些，阿杜安说。
WEBSITES
实用网站
Quebec tourism: Quebecregion.com
魁北克旅游网：Quebecregion.com
Quebec portal: Gouv.cq.ca
魁北克门户网：Gouv.cq.ca
Deschambault-Grondines info: Villages-relais.qc.ca Quebec Federation of Real Estate Boards: Fciq.ca
德尚博-格龙丁斯信息网：Villages-relais.qc.ca。魁北克房地产董事会联盟：Fciq.ca
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币
English; French; Canadian dollar (1 Canadian dollar = $0.90)
英语、法语，加元（1加元=0.9美元，约合人民币5.47元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
The annual city and school taxes on this home are about 3,450 Canadian dollars, or about $3,100.
这栋房屋每年的城市与教育税(city and school taxes)大约为3450加元，或大约3100美元（约合人民币18857元）。
CONTACT
联系人
Derek St-Hilaire, Sotheby’s International Realty Canada, 418-977-9980, Sothebysrealty.ca 
德里克·圣希莱尔(Derek St-Hilaire)，苏富比国际地产公司加拿大分部，418-977-9980，Sothebysrealty.ca