What if the secret to getting kids to eat healthier is to stop focusing on food?
假如让孩子们吃得更健康的秘密是不再强调吃什么，将会怎样？
In spring 2013, the San Francisco Unified School District (S.F.U.S.D.) began a five-month collaboration with the design firm IDEO to re-imagine the school food system. This effort might not sound unique. Childhood obesity has become a hot topic, in large part thanks to the first lady’s Let’s Move! campaign and projects by high-profile chefs like Jamie Oliver and Alice Waters have aimed at getting fresh, healthy foods in schools.
2013年春，旧金山联合学区（San Francisco Unified School District，简称SFUSD）和设计公司艾迪欧(IDEO)启动了一项为期5个月的合作项目，为学校餐食体系重塑形象。这样的做法可能听上去并非独特之事。儿童肥胖已经成为一个热点话题，很大程度上得益于第一夫人的抵制儿童肥胖(Let’s Move!)运动，以及像杰米·奥利弗(Jamie Oliver)和爱丽丝·华德斯(Alice Waters)这样备受瞩目的大厨发起的旨在使学校获得新鲜健康餐食的各种项目。
In this case, however, the adults aren’t as concerned with what students are eating as they are with how they are eating.
但是这一次，比起关心学生们吃什么，大人们更担心的是他们怎么吃。
“When adults dine, we don’t just think about the food,” explained Orla O’Keeffe, the executive director of policy and operations. “The food is important, but so is what’s going on around it: the ambience, the service, the company. Why would we assume kids are any different?”
“当大人们进餐时，我们想的不仅是吃什么，”政策与运营执行董事欧拉·基夫(Orla O’Keeffe)解释说，“吃什么很重要，但围绕就餐的其他因素也同样重要：环境、服务和公司。为什么我们觉得孩子们跟大人会不一样呢？”
And yet that’s just what most school districts do. The S.F.U.S.D., to its credit, has made great strides in the quality of food available to students in the last decade, most recently engaging Revolution Foods, a company dedicated to creating healthy meals for schools, as its primary food vendor; but, until now, they hadn’t put as much effort into considering what the 40 short minutes that students actually have for lunch are like. IDEO, known for putting people’s experiences, not objects, at the center of the design process (what they call “human-centered design”) insisted that this be the starting point.
可这正是大多数学区的做法。值得称赞的是，在过去十年里，旧金山联合学区已经在改善学生餐食质量上取得了巨大成绩，其主要餐食供应商是最近合作的革新食品连锁公司(Revolution Foods)，这家公司致力于为学校提供健康餐。但到目前为止，他们并没有花太大心思去考虑学生们真正花在吃饭上的短短40分钟是什么样的。艾迪欧坚持将此作为起点，这家公司以在设计过程中聚焦用户体验而非产品而著称（他们称之为“以用户为中心的设计”）。
On July 11, 2013, at Everett Middle School, a diverse crew of high school students sit around low round tables in a cafeteria and look at a picture of Maru, the Japanese cat that became a YouTube sensation for jumping in and out of boxes, illuminated on a screen. “Maru is the best prototyper ever. Fearless. Fun. Today we want you to channel your inner Maru,” instructs Coe Leta Stafford, the design director and project leader from IDEO. The teenagers have come to participate in a prototyping session, which will help determine what it is that high school kids really care about when it comes to lunchtime.
2013年7月11日，在埃弗雷特中学(Everett Middle School)，一群中学生围坐在自助餐厅的低圆桌前，观看屏幕上一只名叫Maru的日本猫。因其在盒子里跳进跳出的可爱形象，Maru已经成为YouTube上的红人。“Maru是史上最好的原型。它无畏而有趣。现在，我们希望你能引出自己内心的Maru，”艾迪欧设计主任兼项目经理科·莉塔·斯塔福德(Coe Leta Stafford)说。青少年们已经参与到原型设计的讨论中，这将帮助设计师确定，在午饭时间，中学生真正在意的是什么。
Joyce Gu, a senior at Thurgood Marshall High School, lets out a giggle. She’s wearing skinny jeans and Converse All-Stars, scrolling through her Instagram feed on her cellphone. She’s known for posting pictures of unusual foods that she’s tried (the most recent was Chinese abalone).
瑟古德·马歇尔高中(Thurgood Marshall High School)毕业班学生乔伊斯·顾(Joyce Gu)傻笑了一下。她穿着紧身牛仔服和匡威全明星鞋(Converse All-Stars)，正滑动着手机上Instagram图片分享程序上的内容。她把尝过的特别食物的照片发在网上（最近分享的是中国鲍鱼），有不少点击量。
Joyce is one of the 56,000 students in the district, 61 percent of whom qualify for free or reduced lunch (a family of four that makes $40,000 or less a year qualifies). Despite the district’s location in San Francisco, which is 43 percent white, only 12 percent of the public school students are white (24 percent are Latino, 42 percent are Asian, and 10 percent are African-American.) Many white students end up at one of the many prestigious private schools in the city.
乔伊斯是该区5.6万名学生中的一员，这里的学生中有61%可以享受午餐费用减免（四口之家总收入不超过4万美元即可享受）。尽管该区地处白人占43%的旧金山，但公立学校的白人比例只有12%（24%为拉丁裔，42%为亚洲裔，10%为非裔美国人）。许多白人学生会到市里众多有声望的私立学校就读。
Joyce and 14 other students spend the next hour participating in simulations of their lunch hour. They are given an allowance ($5 for the whole week and various options for how they might pick up their food each day, including the traditional lunch line (not a big hit), a vending machine (though the food appears to be fresh, students are skeptical), and a mobile cart featuring meals from a local restaurant (everyone’s favorite). Afterward the students are asked to reflect: What did you choose and why? What works best for you? How did you choose?
接下来，乔伊斯和其他14名学生花了一小时模拟午餐时间。每人都分到了一点零花钱（一周5美元）并且可以挑选各种食物：包括传统的午餐食物（不是非常热门）、一个自动售货机里的食物（虽然里面的食物看上去挺新鲜，但学生们并不太相信）、以及一个主要供应当地餐馆里餐食（所有人的最爱）的移动推车。之后，设计人员问学生们：你选了哪些食物，为什么？最适合你的是什么？你是怎样选择的？
The answers are wide-ranging and sometimes surprising. Some students delay gratification — choosing to bring a lunch from home until Friday, when they will reward themselves by spending all $5 at once. Some talk about prioritizing sharing food with their friends who don’t have any — a dent in their budget, but a boon for their social lives. Still others focus on figuring out which meal they can get the fastest (they have homework to do) that will also give them the most energy for sports practices later in the day. Almost universally, they say that lunchtime is about spending time with friends — first and foremost — not food. The IDEO team documents their answers painstakingly.
答案五花八门，有时甚至令人惊讶。一些学生推迟满足——他们选择从家里带饭，直到星期五，一次性花掉5美元奖励自己；一些学生说会先和没有任何食物的朋友分享，这会消耗掉一部分预算，但却有利于他们的社交生活；还有一些关注的是什么样的午餐既能让他们最快拿到（因为他们还要写作业）又能给他们傍晚的体育运动提供最多能量。几乎所有人都说午餐时间是和朋友们相处的时间，吃什么并不是第一位的。艾迪欧团队不辞辛劳地记录了他们的回答。
Then Stafford asks the students to check out an app on the cellphone stationed at each table. It’s a prototype of what IDEO calls “smart meal technology”— where kids can pre-order meals in the morning that they will eat later in the day. They can also provide feedback on the meals and set dietary preferences; student nutrition services, for their part, can collect data on kids’ preferences and eliminate food waste. The kids intuitively start tapping away.
接着，斯塔福德让学生们试一下放在每个桌子上的手机里的应用程序。那是一个艾迪欧称之为“智能餐技术”的应用原型：孩子们可以在早上的时候提前预订当天晚些时候将要吃的餐食；他们还能就饭菜提供反馈，设定饮食偏好；对他们来说，学生营养服务(Student Nutrition Services)能够收集学生的偏好，避免食物浪费。孩子们开始凭直觉在应用程序上点击操作。
Joyce looks at O’Keefe, who is seated at her table observing, and says, “This is too good to be true. Who cares what students want?”
乔伊斯看着正坐在桌子前观察的基夫说：“这好得让人难以相信，以前谁会关心学生们想要什么？”
O’Keefe looks crestfallen. When I talk to her about the exchange later, she says: “It was a profound moment. You spend so much of your existence serving kids and then they are genuinely shocked that adults would be invested in doing something for them.”
基夫显得垂头丧气的。但当我后来跟她谈到那一交流时，她说：“那真是个令人骄傲的时刻。你花了那么多精力为孩子们服务，看到大人为他们的付出，他们由衷地感到震惊。”
The collaboration, aimed to change that perception, was paid for by the Sara and Evan Williams Foundation, which essentially bought the S.F.U.S.D. time (multiple staff members, like O’Keefe, were pulled off their day-to-day grind to participate), and of course, IDEO’s expertise.
这一合作的目的正是为了改变孩子们那样的看法。它由莎拉和埃文·威廉姆斯基金会(Sara and Evan Williams Foundation)出资，本质上是购买了旧金山联合学区的时间（多个像基夫这样的管理人员被抽离他们日复一日的工作，参与到这一项目），当然，基金会也购买了艾迪欧的专业技术。
But it also bought them something more intangible — the space to be truly innovative. Superintendent Richard Carranza explains, “If you look at the private sector, they have R&D [research and development] departments where people get to dream and create things that don’t already exist. That’s a luxury that doesn’t exist within the school system where we are often barely able to keep the trains running on time.”
但同时，这也给他们带来了一些更加无形的东西——一个真正的创新之地。主管理查德·卡兰萨(Richard Carranza)解释说，“如果你看私人部门的企业，它们有研发部门，可以让人们发挥想象，创造出新的东西。在学校系统里并没有这样的奢侈条件，很多时候我们只能勉强维持学校的正常运作。”
The S.F.U.S.D. is the largest meal provider in the city of San Francisco, serving 33,000 school lunches and snacks a day. Even so, it’s greatly underutilized. Currently, only 57 percent of students who qualify for free and reduced lunch eat it, and only 13 percent of those who don’t qualify do. Not only is this a lost opportunity for improving student health (research consistently shows that those who go off campus eat poorly, if at all, and that children consume 40 percent of their daily calories at school), but also for the district’s budget (Student Nutrition Services has consistently operated with budget shortfalls the last few years.)
旧金山联合学区提供了旧金山最多的餐饮，每天供应3.3万份学校午餐和零食。即便如此，它仍未被充分利用。目前，有资格享受减免午餐的学生中只有57%的人吃它的食物，而不能享受减免的学生中，这一比例仅为13%。这不仅使学生们失去了改善健康的机会（调查都显示那些离校就餐的学生吃得很差，还有很多人根本不吃午餐，而孩子们在学校消耗的日常卡路里为40%），而且也是该区预算的损失（学生营养服务在过去几年来的运营一直面临着预算短缺的困难）。
The S.F.U.S.D. — like most school districts — would have traditionally approached a challenge like this by doing an assessment of its current labor, vendors, equipment, budget etc., and then writing a lengthy report of recommendations for improvement. Places like Oakland High School, right across the bay, have recently taken to closing school campuses during lunch in order to force kids to eat the healthy meals provided.
和大多数学区一样，旧金山联合学区本可以用传统的方法应对这样的挑战：对目前的劳动力、供应商、设备和预算等方面做一个评估，然后写一份冗长的改善建议报告。像海湾对面的奥克兰高中(Oakland High School)这样的学校，最近为了强迫孩子们吃学校提供的健康餐食，采取了在午餐时间关闭校区的措施。
“Sure, we could close all the campuses and get the same results,” says Sandy Speicher, an associate partner at IDEO, “but designing with the kids’ desires in mind makes them feel valued. Kids learn about what they’re eating through their choices. The district learns about consumption patterns and reduces waste. Everyone gets smarter.”
“当然，我们也可以关闭所有的校区以获得相同的结果，”艾迪欧合伙人桑迪·斯佩泽尔(Sandy Speicher)说，“但在设计中考虑孩子们的渴望使得他们觉得受到了重视。孩子们通过自主选择，去了解他们吃的食物。学区能够了解消费结构，减少浪费。每个人都更聪明了。”
Over 1,300 students, parents, nutrition staff members, principals, teachers, administrators and community partners were involved in the process, which included workshops, prototypes and experiential exhibits — all trademark IDEO tools. The IDEO and S.F.U.S.D. teams, consisting of almost a dozen people, then worked together to consolidate the learning and come up with 10 design recommendations and a comprehensive plan for how they might be prioritized, paid for and realized in schools.
超过1300名学生、家长、营养科员工、校长、老师、管理员和社区伙伴参与了这一过程，其中包括研讨会、原型设计和经验展（都是艾迪欧注册商标的工具）。艾迪欧和旧金山联合学区团队组成了一个十来人的小组，一起合作，巩固实验中的收获，并提出了10个设计建议和一个整体规划：这些建议该怎样排序、怎样出资并最终在学校实现。
The whole team presented its proposal at the Board of Education meeting on September 17 to an unusually full house, starting — not surprisingly — with student voices and also including testimony from nutrition staff workers, the other population for whom the design of the food experience in schools is most urgent.
在9月17日异常满座的教育委员会(Board of Education)会议上，全队展示了其提案。不出意料，展示从学生发言开始，还包括营养科员工的证词，对他们来说，学校餐饮体验的设计也是最迫切的。
They proposed three very distinct eating experiences aligning with the developmental stages in a student’s life, but most fundamentally based on what the students themselves expressed wanting. For elementary school, they imagine lunchrooms where kids sit together at round tables and eat family style — learning to serve one another in stages (healthiest foods are brought out first by nutrition staff workers who oversee their own carts).
为了适应学生的发育阶段，他们提出了三个非常独特的饮食体验，但在根本上是依据学生自己所表达的需求。他们想象在小学的餐厅里，孩子们围着圆桌坐在一起，以家庭的方式就餐——学习按阶段彼此服务（看管自己餐车的营养职工们首先拿出来的是最健康的食物）。
Principal Dennis Chew of Lau Elementary, who had initially expressed skepticism about the communal dining idea during an early workshop, was inspired by the final design and the idea of bringing back the ritual and lost art of communal dining: “The elementary school children are the best teachers for the parents.”
刘贵明小学(Lau Elementary)校长丹尼斯·邱(Dennis Chew)在一个早期研讨会上最先表达了对公共就餐想法的质疑，但最终的设计以及恢复共同就餐这个惯例及失传艺术的想法令他鼓舞：“小学孩子是家长们最好的老师。”
He requested that the pilot program take place at his school, where a large majority of the 700 students are Asian immigrants. “Their exposure to American culture is coming through the food that the dining services provides,” Principal Chew explained. The cart concept would work well, he believed, because it would be reminiscent of familiar styles of eating, like dim sum, but feature new foods.
他要求在学校里实行这项试点工程，该校700名学生中大部分是亚洲移民。“他们正通过就餐服务提供的食物获得对美国文化的熏陶渐染，”邱校长解释说。他相信，餐车的概念会很有效，因为这将让人回忆起像吃点心这样熟悉的就餐风格，但特点是新食物。
For middle school, the focus shifts toward more independence; students can choose “grab-n-go lunches” from mobile carts and then sit in spaces designed by them.
在中学里，关注点向更独立转移：学生们可以从移动餐车上选择“拿了就走的午餐”然后坐在由项目组设计的位置上。
And in high school, it’s all about choice; students multitasking on their short lunch break leverage the convenience of new technology, like the app tested out in the simulation, and are rewarded with discounts for making healthy choices and eating at school more frequently. They spend less time waiting in lines and more time hanging with friends.
而在高中，选择就是一切：学生们在他们短暂的午休时间利用新技术的便利进行多任务处理，如在模拟测试中的应用程序。而且，在选择健康食物和经常在学校就餐后，享受打折奖励。他们省去了排队的时间可以更多和朋友们在一起。
After hearing the presentation, Jill Wynns, the commissioner of the Board of Education expressed some apprehension: “I am, of course, along with the rest of the board, excited about all of these recommendations and appropriately skeptical and nervous about the ongoing costs…As a matter of principle, we need a go-slow plan.”
在听完陈述后，教育委员会理事吉尔·温斯(Jill Wynns)表达了他的担忧：“当然，我和委员会其他人一样，对这些提议都很激动，同时也有一定的疑虑，对持续不断的花费也很紧张……从原则上说，我们需要一个慢一点的计划。”
But the other commissioners, seven in all, seemed on a much faster track: “Put me to work. I’m really excited about this. I want to see us move forward,” said Hydra Mendoza.
但其他七位理事似乎走在更快速的通道上。“安排我工作吧。我对此非常激动。我想看到我们能做出些成绩，”许德拉·门多萨(Hydra Mendoza)说。
“Sometimes when we involve students, it’s often just to say we did and it’s in a token way,” admitted Matt Haney. “I’ve had the opportunity to talk to many of the students involved in this project and they said it was the opposite of that. If we can do that, not just with school food, but with everything we do as a school district, we’re going to get better results.”
“有时候，当我们让孩子参与进来，通常是说我们这么做了，但只是象征性地做了一下，”马特·哈尼(Matt Haney)承认，“我和参与这个项目的许多学生谈过，他们说这次完全不一样。如果这次我们能做到，那么不仅是在学校食物方面，而是学区里所有的事，我们都能取得更好的结果。”
Only time will tell if the S.F.U.S.D. team is able to realize the recommendations, but they have continued support from the Sara and Evan Williams Foundation and are fiercely determined. “I’m long in the tooth,” says O’Keefe. “I’ve seen the ‘thud effect’ with consultants — they plop down a big report and move on before you’ve even finished the engagement. This never felt like that. We all have a genuine desire to see this come to fruition.”
旧金山联合学区小组能否实现这些建议，只有时间才能证明，但他们有莎拉和埃文·威廉姆斯基金会的支持和坚定的决心。基夫说，“活到这把年纪，我见惯了那些顾问们‘砰一下的效果’——他们扑腾一下给出一份大报告，在你甚至还没完成合作之前就已经离开了。这次项目却没有给我任何那样的感觉。我们都由衷地希望看到成果。”
Carranza, the schools superintendent, puts it a little more poetically: “We’ve had a chance to imagine where the rubber meets the sky. Now we’re getting back to the road with a totally new vision.”
卡兰萨，学校的主管说得更诗意一些：“我们有机会去想象和天空交汇的道路，现在我们带着全新的视野回到路上。”