For years, Sudhir Gupta and Cynthia Wong and their two cats all lived together in Mr. Gupta’s 550-square-foot, one-bedroom Gramercy Park apartment. And they couldn’t help coveting the apartment next door, a light-filled space with generous exposures on two sides and an owner who spent most of his time somewhere else.
多年来，苏迪尔·古普塔(Sudhir Gupta)、辛西娅·王（Cynthia Wong，音译——译注）和他们的两只猫，一直住在古普塔的公寓里，那是一套位于葛莱美西公园(Gramecy Park)的一套550平方英尺（约合51平方米）的一居室。他们倆情不自禁地对隔壁那套光线充足、两面有大露台的公寓充满觊觎，那套公寓的房主常年在外。
Eventually their neighbor agreed to sell, and after a certain amount of back and forth, Ms. Wong bought the 540-square-foot apartment in 2010 for $510,000. (Mr. Gupta, who bought his apartment in 1998, paid what now seems almost a pittance: $170,000.)
最终，邻居同意卖房了。经过一番讨价还价，辛西娅于2010年花51万美元（约合人民币317万元）买下了这套540平方英尺（约合50平方米）的公寓。（古普塔的公寓是在1998年买下的，当时的房价是17万美元[约合人民币106万元]，现在看来，这价格简直微不足道。）
That’s when things became interesting. Because combining two New York City apartments into one harmonious whole — the home you’ve been dreaming about for what feels like forever — can be challenging under the best of circumstances. But when the individuals involved have divergent tastes, it’s even more difficult.
从那时起，事情开始变得有趣了。因为，要将两套纽约公寓合并成一个和谐的整体——一个令你梦寐以求、似乎可以相伴一生的家，即使在最理想的情况下，也可能充满挑战。而且，如果当事人的品位不一致，事情甚至会变得更复杂。
Mr. Gupta, you see, is a financial analyst who is 48 and has developed a design style that he describes as “more MoMA,” referring to the streamlined aesthetic of the objects in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.
48岁的古普塔是金融分析师，他已经形成了自己的设计风格，用他的话说，这种风格“更有MoMa（现代艺术博物馆）范儿”。这里的“MoMa范儿”，指的是MoMa藏品所表现出来的那种流线型的美感。
And Ms. Wong?
那么辛西娅呢？
“Our friends,” he said, “say that Cynthia is more shabby chic.”
“我们的朋友说，辛西娅倾向于走“破旧时尚”(shabby chic)路线，”古普塔说。
Not surprisingly, Ms. Wong, who is 42 and works for an investment bank, disagrees with this assessment.
42岁的辛西娅就职于投行。不出意料，她并不同意上述看法。
“I am not shabby chic!” she exclaimed. “Sid likes straight lines and everything hidden. My style is more romantic and a lot softer.”
“我才没有走‘破旧时尚’路线呢！”她大叫道，“希德（Sid，苏迪尔的昵称——译注）喜欢直线条，喜欢把所有的东西都藏起来。我的风格更浪漫一些，也柔和许多。”
If bridging those differences wasn’t challenge enough, the two were determined to continue living in the space while it was being renovated. And once the walls between the two apartments came down, Ms. Wong said, “It was complete chaos.”
弥合双方风格差异本来就够难的了，不仅如此，他们俩还决定在装修期间继续住在房子里。辛西娅说，一旦两套公寓之间的墙面被打通，“屋子里就完全乱了套。”
Mr. Gupta countered, “It was rough, but I wouldn’t say it was miserable.”
古普塔反驳道：“确实是粗糙了点，但我不觉得它很糟糕。”
The couple put most of their possessions into storage and were confined to one bedroom, he said, but they always had a working bathroom: “The contractor did things in a very orderly way. He worked on one side first, then switched over.”
他说，他们将大多数物品都放进了储藏室，平常只待在一间卧室里：“承包商施工非常有序。装修好了一边后，再换到另一边。”
Ms. Wong suffers from allergies that were exacerbated by the construction. “It was really tough,” she said. “We didn’t even have a mini-fridge, so it was like dorm living, sitting on the bed eating Chinese takeout.”
辛西娅的过敏症在装修期间恶化了。“那段时间真的很难熬，”她说，“我们连一台迷你冰箱也没有，跟住在宿舍里一样。平常就坐在床上吃中餐外卖。”
This went on for eight months, but somehow their relationship survived. Sadly, their 14-year-old cats did not.
这样的生活持续了8个月，但是两人的关系维持住了。可惜的是，两只14岁的猫没有撑过去。
Both died of natural causes before the construction was completed in spring 2012, so they never got the chance to sink their claws into the custom upholstery or roll around on the new rugs or leap up onto the mantel of the dramatic asymmetrical fireplace that the couple’s designer, Robert Kaner, created in collaboration with their architect, Rafael Berkowitz. (A discreet niche built into the kitchen wall, intended as a place for a litter box, now holds firewood instead.)
2012年春，两只猫都在施工结束前寿终正寝了。它们再也没有机会把爪子埋进定做的椅垫里、或者纵身跃上壁炉架。那座华丽的不对称壁炉，是由夫妇俩的设计师罗伯特·卡纳(Robert Kaner)和他们的建筑师拉斐尔·贝尔科维奇(Rafael Berkowitz)共同制造（厨房的墙上设有一座不引人注目的壁龛，本来是用来放垃圾箱的，现在则用来堆放柴火）。
Altogether, the renovation and interior design, including all the furnishings and art, cost about $350,000, despite splurges like the Spinneybeck leather on the chairs in the dining area, which Mr. Gupta insisted on, and the custom-made tufted settee in front of the fireplace that Ms. Wong had her heart set on.
装修和室内设计——包括所有家具和装饰品，一共花费了大约35万美元（约合人民币218万元）。尽管夫妇俩用到了一些颇显奢华的家具，比如用餐区座椅上的Spinneybeck皮革软垫——这是古普塔当初坚持要用的，还有壁炉前的簇绒沙发——辛西娅对这件家具非常钟意。
The couple credit their designers with producing a finished space that looks like the product of a singular vision.
夫妇俩对设计师称赞有加，认为他们打造的室内空间，看起来就像是浑然一体的。
“I don’t know how other designers work,” Mr. Gupta said. “But it was nice to work with someone who was paying attention to, and involving us in, every small detail.”
“我不知道其他设计师是怎么工作的，”古普塔说，“但我觉得我们的设计师做得很好。他们尊重我们的感受，会让我们参与到每个小细节的设计中。”
Ms. Wong added: “I loved it before, because home is home. But I never imagined we could have all this.”
辛西娅补充道：“我也喜欢这里原来的样子，毕竟家还是家。但是我从来没有想到，我们能拥有现在这个家。”