When you visit Sloan and Jennifer Ritchie’s new passive house in the Madison Park neighborhood here, it takes a while to notice all the things you’re not hearing.
当你参观斯隆(Sloan)与詹妮弗·里奇(Jennifer Ritchie)这栋坐落于麦迪逊公园(Madison Park)社区中的新落成的被动节能屋时，想要注意到所有你闻所未闻的那些东西，可得花上一阵子。
Look out the living room windows and you can see a gardener wielding one of those ear-piercing leaf blowers in the yard, but you would never know it inside.
从客厅的窗户往外看，你能见到一位园丁正在院子里操作一台声音刺耳的落叶吹扫机(leaf blowers)。不过，你在屋内绝对不会知道有这样的声音。
There is no furnace or air-conditioner clicking on or off, no whir of forced air, and yet the climate is a perfect 72 degrees, despite the chilly air outside.
这里没有嘀嗒一声启动或关闭的火炉与空调，也没有呼呼作响的强制对流空气，然而气温却刚好是72°（摄氏22°），尽管外面天寒地冻。
Then there are the things you’re not feeling. In one of the most humid cities in the country, you aren’t sticky or irritable, and the joints that sometimes bother you are mysteriously pain-free.
然后，还有一些你察觉不到的东西。虽然身处国内最潮湿的城市之一，但你既不会感到黏腻，也不觉得烦躁，而且不时烦扰你的关节也都莫名其妙地不疼了。
The air inside the house feels so fresh, you can almost taste its sweetness.
屋内的空气是那样新鲜，你几乎能尝出甘甜的味道。
On paper, at least, the Ritchies’ home sounds too good to be true: an environmentally responsible house without traditional heating and air-conditioning systems that will be an airy 70 to 74 degrees on the coldest day of winter and the hottest day of summer, but use only a fraction of the energy consumed by a typical house.
仅从表面上看，里奇家的房屋似乎美好得难以置信：这是一栋环保型房屋，没有传统的供暖与空调系统，不管在冬天最冷的时候，还是夏天最热的时候，室内都是逍遥快活的70°（摄氏21°）至74°（摄氏23°），但消耗的能源却只是普通房屋的一小部分。
And yet it’s not some experiment or futuristic dream. Nearly 30,000 of these houses have already been built in Europe. In Germany, an entire neighborhood with 5,000 of these super-insulated, low-energy homes is under construction, and the City of Brussels is rewriting its building code to reflect passive standards.
然而，这并不是什么实验或对未来的憧憬。欧洲目前已经建造了大约三万栋这样的房屋。德国正在建设一个包括5000栋这种超级隔温、超低能耗房屋的社区；而布鲁塞尔市(City of Brussels)为了树立关于被动节能建筑的标准，已经开始重写该市的建筑规范了。
But in the United States, since the first passive house went up 10 years ago, in Urbana, Ill., only about 90 have been certified. Why aren’t they catching on here?
但是在美国，自从10年前在伊利诺伊州厄巴纳市(Urbana, Ill.)建造了第一栋被动节能屋之后，仅有大约90栋这类房屋取得了认证。为什么被动节能屋在美国没能跟上步伐呢？
Part of the problem is the cost. Higher fuel prices and energy taxes in Europe provide a major incentive to embrace passive standards, which are complicated and make construction more expensive. In this country, it could be a decade or more before the energy savings someone like Don Freas enjoys in his 1,150-square-foot passive house in Olympia, Wash., offsets the extra $30,000 or so it cost to build.
部分问题在于建造成本。欧洲更高的燃料价格与能源税，是人们接受那些被动节能标准的一个主要刺激因素。这些标准错综复杂，导致建筑施工的造价不菲。而在美国，可能还需要十年或者更久的时间，才能让诸如唐·弗里亚斯(Don Freas)这样的人，将其位于华盛顿州奥林匹亚市(Olympia)那栋1150平方英尺（约107平方米）的被动节能屋中所享受到的节能好处，与其建造成本中多出来的那3万美元（约合人民币18.7万元）相互抵消。
“But those are such non-sexy ideas,” said Mr. Freas, 61, who is a sculptor and poet. “What matters is that I have never lived in such a comfortable house.”
“但那都是些多么乏味的想法啊，”61岁的雕塑家和诗人弗里亚斯说，“重要的是，我从没住过如此舒适的房屋。”
Proponents of passive building argue that the additional cost (which is estimated at 5 to 20 percent) will come down once construction reaches critical mass and more American manufacturers are on board. And there are a few signs that day may be coming. More than 1,000 architects, builders and consultants have received passive-house training in this country; at least 60 houses or multifamily projects are in the works; and Marvin Windows, a mainstream manufacturer based in Minnesota, recently began making windows that meet passive certification standards.
被动节能建筑的支持者们辩驳说，一旦修建工程达到足够大的规模，并且有更多美国制造商参与的话，附加成本（预估为5%至20%）就将会下降。已经有一些迹象表明，那一天或许正在到来。美国国内已有超过1000名建筑师、建造者和顾问接受了被动能源屋的培训；至少有60栋房屋或多户合住建筑项目正在施工当中；而一家本部位于明尼苏达州的主流制造商“马文之窗”(Marvin Windows)，最近也开始生产达到被动节能认证标准的窗户了。
For all that, there are plenty of people who aren’t buying it — even some of those who support passive principles.
尽管如此，还是有许多人不会去买——哪怕是那些支持被动节能原则的人。
Martin Holladay, 58, a respected voice within the building industry, writes the Musings of an Energy Nerd blog for greenbuildingadvisor.com and lives off the grid in Vermont. He doesn’t believe passive houses are right for the American market.
建筑行业中的一位意见领袖、58岁的马丁·霍拉迪(Martin Holladay)在为greenbuildingadvisor.com网站撰写博客“一位能源痴的思考”(Musings of an Energy Nerd)，并在佛蒙特州过着远离输电网络的生活。他就不相信这些被动节能屋适合美国市场。
“What I’m worried about,” he said, “is that the current halo around the passive-house standard will result in its being incorporated into the building code. That would be unfortunate because they are unnecessarily expensive houses, from $300,000 to $500,000 on average, that cost more than will ever be justified by lifetime energy savings or carbon reductions.”
“我担心的是，”他说，“被动节能屋标准现在头顶的那道光环，将使其最终得以纳入建筑规范之内。那会非常不幸，因为这是一些超出需要的昂贵房屋，平均从30万美元（约合人民币187万元）至50万美元（约合人民币312万元）不等，比一辈子节能减排所花的钱还要多。”
Mr. Holladay favors a more flexible formula called the Pretty Good House, which promotes modest improvements in insulation coupled with renewable energy from solar panels — an approach, he said, that achieves similar energy savings without the additional expense.
霍拉迪更喜欢一个较为灵活的方案，叫做优等房屋(Pretty Good House)。这种房屋提倡在隔温方面做适当改进，并辅以由太阳能板提供的可再生能源。他说，这个方法达到了近似的节能目标，却没有额外的开销。
BUT COST IS NOT the only hurdle. The very idea of a passive house is counterintuitive. And when just explaining what it is remains so difficult, proselytizing is that much harder.
但是成本并非仅有的阻碍。被动节能屋这一理念本身就是难以理解的。所以要解释还有什么特别艰巨的问题，说服别人相信他们的理念，才是困难得多的事。
As Mr. Freas said, “It’s like trying to describe an environment that we, as Americans, have no experience with.”
正如弗里亚斯所说，“就像在努力描述我们这些美国人不曾经历过的一种环境。”
The basic idea is that these houses are so airtight that warm air won’t leak out in the winter, and cool air won’t leak out in the summer. Windows are three panes thick, and there is far more insulation than you would find in a standard American home.
最基本的理念是，这些房屋都封闭严密，冬天不会泄漏暖气，而夏天也不会泄漏冷气。那些窗户都有厚达三层的窗玻璃，而且隔温措施比你能在一户标准美国住宅中发现的要多得多。
Stale indoor air is exchanged for fresh outdoor air without altering the internal temperature by mechanical systems you would not find in a conventional house: things like heat-recovery ventilators, which draw the heat from outgoing air and mix it with incoming air from outside in the winter, and do the opposite in the summer. (In high-humidity climates, an energy-recovery ventilator is used instead to strip moisture from incoming air.)
室内的污浊空气会换成户外的新鲜空气，而不用通过你在传统住宅中看到的那种机械系统来转换室内温度：那些诸如热回收通风设备之类的系统，会从排出的空气中吸取热量，并把这些热量混合到冬天从户外吸入的空气中；而夏天就反向运转（在湿度大的气候状态下，能量回收通风设备会用来抽取空气中的湿气）。
Vents that look like small, round audio speakers are placed throughout the house to exchange fresh air. These devices have prevented the formation of mold, which plagued the passive-solar movement of the 1970s and 1980s.
那些看起来像一个个圆形小喇叭的通风孔，布满了整栋房屋，作换气之用。这些装置阻止了霉菌形成，霉菌曾经阻碍了20世纪70至80年代间兴起的被动太阳能运动。
This system is based on a complex formula devised in the early 1990s by the German physicist Wolfgang Feist, which has been used for residential and commercial projects of various sizes, including a college dormitory recently completed in Virginia.
该系统基于一个由德国物理学家沃尔夫冈·费斯特(Wolfgang Feist)于20世纪90年代初设计出来的复杂方案，并已应用于各种规模的住宅和商业地产项目之中，其中包括弗吉尼亚州刚建好的一栋大学宿舍。
To be certified, a project must meet three crucial benchmarks. The first is a certain level of airtightness, as determined by a “blower door test.” The other two are measures of energy use: the annual energy consumed by heating and cooling the space cannot exceed a certain amount, and neither can the energy consumed by a range of other things, like heating water and powering electronic devices. Failure to properly meet these three markers (while also paying attention to variables like climate and orientation to the sun) means a building may not achieve optimum performance. Nor will it receive approval from either of the passive certifying bodies operating in the United States, which can charge thousands of dollars in fees.
想要得到认证，一个施工项目必须达到三项关键指标。第一项是具备一定程度的密封性，这一点可由“鼓风门气密测试”来确定。另外两项是关于能耗的测试：屋内升温与降温所消耗的能量每年不能超过一定额度，而且能量也不能消耗在一系列其它事物中，比如烧水和给电子设备供电。若未能恰当地达到这三项指标（同时还要注意一些变量，比如气候和朝向），那就意味着一栋建筑可能没有实现最佳表现。那么，该建筑也不会从美国两家被动节能认证机构当中的任何一家得到认可。这种认证可能会收取数千美元的费用。
To make things more complicated, no two passive houses are likely to be built to exactly the same specifications. Thousands of variables, including the architectural design, the size of the house, how many people will live there, and longitude and latitude, are taken into consideration by the sophisticated software created by Dr. Feist and his Passivhaus Institute in Darmstadt, Germany.
使情况更加复杂的是，不可能把两栋被动节能屋建成完全相同的规格。包括建筑设计、房屋大小、入住人数以及经纬度在内的数千种变数，都会被一个由费斯特博士及其位于德国达姆施塔特市(Darmstadt)的被动节能屋研究所(Passivhaus Institute)所设计的复杂软件考虑在内。
The first time Mr. Freas’s design team tried the computer modeling, it took them 100 hours. Now they have it down to 6.
费斯特的设计团队第一次试运行这个计算机模型的时候，花了100个小时。现在他们已经把时间缩短为6小时。
And that’s before the real work begins. During construction, special fog machines and infrared cameras are often brought in to detect the smallest air leaks. Special tapes, gaskets and sealants are used on the wall seams to ensure they won’t break down over time and result in drafts.
此后，真正的工作才开始。施工期间，会用特殊的烟雾器与红外摄像仪来检测最微小的空气泄漏情况。墙壁接缝处会使用特殊的胶带、垫圈和密封剂，来确保这些墙缝经年累月之后不会破损裂口。
And the more extreme the weather, the more insulation is needed. In a place as cold as Minnesota, a passive home’s walls would have to be 18 inches thick, but even in the more temperate Portland, Ore., 12 to 14 inches is typical.
气候越是极端，需要采取的密封措施就越多。在明尼苏达州这样寒冷的地方，一栋被动节能屋的墙壁必须达到18英寸（约45.7厘米）厚。即便在气候更加温暖的俄勒冈州波特兰市(Portland, Ore.)，12英寸（约30.5厘米）至14英寸（约35.6厘米）的厚度也很常见。
This kind of meticulous construction results in big energy savings, but just how much is a matter of some dispute. Passive House advocates claim their buildings require 10 to 35 percent as much energy as standard buildings, while others, like Mr. Holladay, put that at closer to 50 percent.
这种一丝不苟的施工过程，让大量能源得以节省下来，只不过具体省下了多少，仍是个有些争议的问题。被动节能屋的拥护者们声称，他们那些建筑消耗的能源只有标准建筑的10%至35%。而其他人，比如霍拉迪，则认为这个比例较接近于50%。
Either way, getting it right is tricky, which is why 32 builders, architects and consultants recently gathered for a four-day training session in Seattle run by the Passive House Institute United States, which is based in Urbana. Many had beginners’ horror stories. One representative of Habitat for Humanity in Washington State introduced himself by saying, “I’m here because the passive house we built failed, and I need to understand what went wrong so it never happens again.”
无论哪种说法，要正确地领会这件事都很不容易。这就是为什么32名建造者、建筑师和顾问最近齐聚西雅图(Seattle)，共同参加由设立在厄巴纳市的“美国被动节能屋研究所”( Passive House Institute United States)所举办的一个为期四天的训练项目。许多人都有过初学者的恐怖经历。华盛顿州仁人家园(Habitat for Humanity)的一位代表在自我介绍时说，“我来到这里是因为我们建造的被动节能屋失败了。所以我得弄明白到底是哪儿出了问题，好让它再也不会发生。”
Katrin Klingenberg, 44, the German-born architect who leads the institute, has been at the forefront of the American movement. As far as she is concerned, “Washington and Oregon are a piece of cake for passive house design,” she said.
该研究所的领导人、出生于德国的44岁建筑设计师卡特琳·克林根伯格(Katrin Klingenberg)在美国已经走在了这项运动的前列。在她看来，“在华盛顿州和俄勒冈州设计被动节能屋，是小菜一碟。”她说。
More than a third of the certified passive houses are in the Pacific Northwest, probably because the conditions are perfect, she said. “It doesn’t get too cold in the winter or too humid in the summer. It’s most similar to Europe.”
目前有超过三分之一已获认证被动节能屋，分布在太平洋的西北沿岸(Pacific Northwest)，大概因为那里的条件非常合适吧，她说。“冬天不会太冷，夏天也不会太热。那里是最像欧洲的地方。”
Figuring out how to make the model work in the hot, humid Southeast is a bigger challenge, something the Europeans have not had to deal with. With this in mind, Ms. Klingenberg’s organization is working to develop American standards, taking into account variations in energy use and leakage rates from one climate zone to another; they are expected to be released this fall.
想要弄明白在炎热潮湿的东南部该怎样修建这种模式的房屋，是个更加艰巨的挑战。这也是欧洲人一直无需面对的问题。出于这种考虑，克林根伯格的研究所正致力于订立一些美国标准，把能源使用中的的各种变数，以及从一个气候带至另一个气候带的不同泄漏量等问题都计算在内；这些标准预计将于今年秋天公布。
As Joseph Lstiburek, an engineer with the Building Science Corporation, a research facility in Boston, put it, “there’s a really big difference between Minneapolis and Miami.” The German model doesn’t take that into account, he said. “The Germans don’t know how to do air-conditioning or humidity.”
正如设立在波士顿的一家研究机构“建筑学团体”(Building Science Corporation)的一位工程师约瑟夫·勒斯季布雷克(Joseph Lstiburek)说的那样，“明尼阿波利斯市(Minneapolis)与迈阿密市(Miami)之间有非常大的差别。”这种德国模式没有把那种差别考虑在内，他说。“德国人不知道怎样处理空调系统或湿度。”
Those differences have contributed to a two-year stalemate between the German and American passive house institutes, which have stopped collaborating on software, testing and certification. That puts designers here in an awkward position.
就是那些差别，已让德国与美国的这两家被动节能研究所陷入一场长达两年的僵局，令两家研究机构停止了在软件、测试和认证方面的合作。这让美国的设计师们遭遇了相当尴尬的境地。
The Artisans Group, in Olympia, Wash., which designed and built Mr. Freas’s home, has decided to split its six new passive projects, collaborating with the Germans on some and the Americans on others, said Tessa Smith, an architect and co-owner of the firm. “That way we will learn more,” she said.
在华盛顿州的奥林匹亚市，曾设计建造了弗里亚斯的住宅的“工匠集团”(Artisans Group)已决定，将其六个新被动节能屋项目分拆，一部分与德国研究所合作，另一部分与美国研究所合作，据该公司的一名建筑师合伙人泰莎·史密斯(Tessa Smith)说。“那样我们会学到更多。”她说。
But for those who are hoping to push the industry forward in this country, the split is disheartening, said Sam Hagerman, president of the Passive House Alliance, an association of passive house professionals, and the owner of Hammer and Hand, a design-build firm in Portland. Particularly, he said, when “we’re still trying to show proof of concept.”
但是对那些希望把这一产业推向全国的人而言，这次分拆则令他们灰心丧气，一家被动节能屋专家协会“被动节能屋联盟”(Passive House Alliance)的主席、同时也是波特兰市一家设计建造公司Hammer and Hand所有者的山姆·哈格曼(Sam Hagerman)说。尤其是，他说，当“我们仍在努力做概念示范”的时候。
WHILE THEIR BLACK, fiber-cement-paneled house was going up in a neighborhood of traditional million-dollar homes, the Ritchies couldn’t help noticing the openly hostile stares. Mr. Ritchie, 42, a wireless engineer turned sustainable builder and developer, speculated, “They probably wanted something Craftsman here.”
当里奇家的黑色纤维水泥板房屋，在一片住宅价值高达上百万的传统社区里兴建起来时，他们无法不注意到那些公然敌对的眼神。今年42岁、由无线电工程师转为绿色建造者与开发商的里奇先生推测，“他们可能希望在这里会有一栋工匠风格的建筑吧。”
Ms. Ritchie, 39, who owns a public relations firm, said: “We could have toned it down. Our architect came up with six color schemes for the exterior.” Instead, they went with the boldest option, black.
拥有一家公关公司的39岁的里奇太太说：“我们本可以让色调柔和一点。建筑师给了我们六种外墙颜色的方案。”然而，他们做了最大胆的选择，黑色。
They also put out a sign explaining in simple terms how the house is so energy-efficient that it will run on the same amount of power it takes to operate a hand-held hair dryer. After that, Mr. Ritchie said, “the negative feedback went back to almost zero.” An elderly woman gave him a big thumbs-up. Others stopped to chat.
他们还立了一个指示牌，用简短的语言解释了这栋房屋的节能指标，如何会达到凭借一个手持电吹风需要的电量，就能运转起来的程度。此后，里奇先生说，“负面的反馈几乎为零。”一位上年纪的女士对他竖起了大拇指。其他人则驻足与他们交谈。
But not everyone was won over. One man walked up to Mr. Ritchie and said, “I really don’t like what you’re doing with your house.”
但也并不是每个人都被争取过来了。一个男人走上前来对里奇先生说，“我实在不喜欢你们正在修建的房屋。”
Later, Mr. Ritchie realized what his comeback should have been: “And I don’t like what you’re doing with your furnace.”
后来，里奇先生想到他应该这样回敬那个人：“我也不喜欢你正在用的暖炉。”
Early passive houses were boxy, with few windows and even less style, but as designers have grown more comfortable with the modeling software, homes have become more elegant and inventive. In the Ritchies’ house, everything feels textured and substantial, like the metal-framed windows from Lithuania, the skylights from Poland, and the touches of spruce throughout, which came from a tree on the long, thin lot that had to come down.
早期的被动节能屋都是方方正正的形状，只有几扇窗户，更不具备什么风格；但随着设计师们把建模软件用得越来越得心应手，这些房屋也变得越来越优雅体面和匠心独具了。在里奇家的这栋房屋里，一切都带有质感，而且非常坚固。比如那些来自立陶宛的金属框架窗，几扇来自波兰的天窗，还有到处可见的云杉木装饰。该批木料来自一棵长在一片狭长地块上、必须被砍倒的大树。