Not too long ago, Toni Morrison sat in the small kitchen attached to the studio where she was recording the audiobook for her newest novel, “God Help the Child,” telling a roomful of strangers stories that I will never forget. The studio, a small, refurbished barn in Katonah, N.Y., was more than a hundred years old, but only a few rustic touches remained, like a sliding barn door and knotty pine floors. A solid kitchen table had been laid with fresh fruits, muffins and tins of jam. Beams of sunlight reflected off the blindingly white snow outside the glass window. A young woman from Random House kept mentioning her sunglasses, how it was bright enough to wear them inside. Everyone giggled at her nervous chatter, but they seemed to be mostly laughing at her brave attempt to make small talk in the presence of Toni Morrison.
不久前的一天，托妮·莫里森(Toni Morrison)坐在一间小厨房里，给一屋子陌生人讲述了一些让我难以忘怀的故事。与这间厨房相连的是一间录音工作室，莫里森在这里给她最新出版的小说《上帝救助孩子》(God Help the Child)的有声书录音。这间位于纽约州卡托那的工作室是由一个有一百多年历史的小谷仓改造的，但房间里却只保留了像谷仓滑动门和松节木地板这样很少几处农家风格的修饰。厨房里，实沉的餐桌上放着新鲜水果，玛芬蛋糕和好几罐果酱。玻璃窗外，几束阳光反射在白得耀眼的雪地上。兰登出版社的一位年轻女士反复提起她的墨镜，说光线强得都可以在室内带墨镜了。她紧张的喋喋不休把大家都逗乐了。她有勇气在托妮·莫里森面前寒暄闲谈，这可能是大家觉得好笑的真正原因吧。
The only person not bothered by the glare and the room’s awkward giddiness was Morrison herself, who sat at the head of the table, in a thin, black linen caftan, a wool beret and with a sizable diamond ring on one hand. Morrison wears her age like an Elizabethan regent or a descendant of Othello via Lorain, Ohio. Long before we met, I read that she could be impervious at times, coquettish at others. What was evident that day in Katonah was that had she so much as lifted a finger, every person in the room — the studio’s director and his engineer, her P.R. person from Knopf, her publisher and two young women from the audiobooks division of Random House — would have stopped what they were doing to ask if they could assist. Not because she required it, but because the unspoken consensus was that the person who produced the 11 novels that Morrison has written, the person those books came out of, was deserving of the fuss.
莫里森并没有被室内的强光所侵扰。在房间里略显尴尬的紧张气氛中，也只有她镇静自若。她坐在桌首，穿着一件单薄的黑色系带亚麻长衫，戴着一顶羊毛贝雷帽，一只手上带着一个硕大的钻石戒指。她的高龄给了她一种威严，让她看上去就像是一位伊丽莎白时代的王族或是来自俄亥俄州洛里恩城奥赛罗(Othello)的后裔。早在我们见面前，我就读到过她有时会对人冷漠，而有时却乐于展现魅力。在卡托那的那天，有一点显而易见。那就是，哪怕她只是动动一个手指头，房间里的每个人——包括录音室导演和他的工程师，莫里森在克诺夫出版社的公关人员，她的出版商，两位兰登有声书部门来的年轻女士——都会停下他们手头的事询问他们可以为她做些什么。倒并不是因为她有所需求，而是大家都默认，这位就是创作了那11部小说的莫里森，能写出那样作品的作者，当然值得大家为之忙碌。
It takes a long time to record a book. Many authors use actors. But that’s not how Morrison hears her own sentences, so she does these tedious sessions herself. That day, she would go into a narrow, low-lit booth, carrying a small pillow for her back, sit down and read from her new book for hours. We followed along in the control room, listening to her barely-a-whisper voice read from a chapter called “Sweetness”: “It’s not my fault. So you can’t blame me. I didn’t do it and have no idea how it happened.”
为一本有声书录音要花很长时间。许多作者选择让演员来朗读他们的作品。但是别人读出来的句子总不是莫里森想要的效果，所以她宁愿自己来完成这些冗长苦闷的录音。那天，她拿着一个小背靠枕，走进一间狭窄昏暗的小隔间里坐下，读了好几个小时她的新书。我们在控制室里，听她用喃喃低语朗读题为“甜蜜”的一章：“这不是我的错。你不能责怪我。这不是我干的，我也不知道为什么会这样。”
The hours went by. “Toni,” the director said at one point through his microphone, “can you do that sentence over? Can you pronounce ‘tangerine’ with more emphasis on the ‘rine?’ ” Sometimes her voice dipped down too low to be heard. “Toni,” he would say, “let’s do that part over again.”
几小时的时间过去了。“托妮”，导演在某处打断，透过话筒说道：“你能把那句重读一遍吗？当你读‘tangerine’的时候，能稍微重读一下 ‘rine’这个音节吗？”有时她的声音低到难以听清。这时导演会说：“托妮，我们把那段再录一遍吧。”
It was a long day. Some people can’t do it, can’t sit in that dimly lit sarcophagus-like space and read. Others who have recorded there have kept the door open because the booth was too confining. But Morrison was in absolute calm, as if this dark space and her own words were a nest of language and she was perfectly at home. Because of how she was positioned, I couldn’t see her; I could hear only her voice. Purring and soft. Dulcet. A faint noise coming from within the darkness.
这是漫长的一天。有的人可吃不消坐在这像石棺一样昏暗狭小的空间里朗读。在这儿录音的别人会把门打开，因为隔间太过压抑。但是莫里森却极为平静，似乎这黑暗的空间和她创造出的词语交融，构建了一个语言的巢窝，她在这里无比自在。因为她坐的位置，我看不到她本人。但是我能听见她。低哝软语，悦耳动听。她的嗓音是来自黑暗之处的低微声源。
During her breaks, Morrison would take her place at the table, and within minutes she was surrounded. Did she want the heater closer? Did she want tea? As a defense against our smothering neediness, she tried to preserve herself, the private person inside the author, by telling us stories. My mention of New Orleans prompted her to tell a tale that she heard from a friend that must be passed along. It goes like this: There was once a man who lived in New Orleans. A city that is like no other place in this country. Now, this man’s name was Big Lunch, and folks called him that because he was known for always coming around midday and asking for whatever food people had to spare. He put that food in his pockets, in his coat, in his pants, and when that food went bad, he didn’t mind. You could smell this man coming around even when he was blocks away because he never bathed. And of course, over time all that food and dirt began to crust and that crust caked over his skin. Somehow or other, Big Lunch got into an accident, and when they got him to the hospital, they washed him. They washed all of his dirt and crust off. All of it. But as days passed, instead of getting better, Big Lunch began to get sicker, sicker, until finally one day he took his last breath and died. “Because,” she said, looking intently at me with a smile that had nothing to do with anything funny, “those people didn’t know that all of that crust was what had been keeping him alive.”
在录音间隙的休息时间，莫里森就坐在桌前她的位置上，不到几分钟就被众人围住。她要把暖气关掉吗？她要喝茶吗？虽是知名作家，莫里森却试图保持自己的私人空间。为了抵挡我们的过分关切，她的办法就是给我们讲故事。因为我提到了新奥尔良，她就讲了一个她从朋友那里听来的不得不说的故事：从前有一个男人，住在新奥尔这个独一无二的城市里。这个男人的名字叫饕餮午餐。给他起这个名字的原因是他每到午餐时间就出现，向大家索要食物。他把食物放在他的口袋里，外套里，和裤子里。食物变坏了他也不管。他从来不洗澡，人们从几个街区外就能闻见他。久而久之，坏掉的食物和污垢就在他的周身结成了硬壳。一天不知怎么的，饕餮午餐出了事故。他被送到了医院。在那儿，他身上的污垢和硬壳被冲洗的一干二净。时间一天天过去，饕餮午餐没有好转，却病得越来越严重，直到有一天他咽了气。“这是因为，”莫里森目不转睛地看着我，脸上带着一丝并不是出于滑稽的笑容，说道：“这些人没有搞明白，他就是靠着那层硬壳才得以生存。”
Morrison is a woman of guardrails and many boundaries; she keeps them up in order to do the work. The work “protects,” she told me. “It’s a serious protection: emotionally, even intellectually, from the world.” Journalists from Europe and elsewhere call these days, one after the other, and they try to be coy, but she can tell what they really want to know. “They are just calling to see when I’m going to die.” She laughed and said: “So I’ll play it up a bit and say, ‘Oh, today my arms hurt, my chest is sore.’ Because, me? I’m not going anywhere soon.”
莫里森在她的周身筑起了护栏，划出了许多界限。设防是为了工作。她告诉我，她的写作给她提供了“保护”。“这种抵御外界的保护十分有效,”她说：“从情感和心智上来讲都是如此。”近些年，欧洲和世界各地的记者会一个接着一个的打电话。他们措辞委婉，但她清楚他们的真正目的。“他们打电话来就是想知道我什么时候死，”她笑着说：“我会逗逗他们，跟他们说：‘哎呀，今天我的胳膊疼，胸口也酸。’我嘛，我可一时半会儿咽不了气。”
She wasn’t too interested in her 84th birthday, she said, until President Obama’s office called the other day to plan a lunch. When she told us this, oohs and aahs went around the room. Someone asked her where she was going to have it. “Huh,” she said, as if this were the silliest question ever posed. “At their house! At the White House!” Of course. “Well, actually, it isn’t a lunch; it is a dinner, and they said, ‘Now, Toni, this will be very informal, don’t put yourself out, you can even wear jeans if you like.’ ” She paused and shook her head slightly, saying to no one in particular: “Jeans! I’ve never worn jeans in my life, and I’m certainly not going to wear them to the White House. I mean.” Then she sighed. As if she couldn’t even explain it all to us, because we wouldn’t get it. Like we wouldn’t get how far she had come.
她说，她对自己的84岁生日并不是很在意，直到有一天奥巴马总统的办公室打来电话，提出要举行一个午宴。当她告诉我们这些的时候，房间里的惊叹之声此起彼伏。某人问她午宴在哪儿举行。“哈，”她说，好像没有比这更愚蠢的问题了：“在他们家里，就是白宫！”这是当然。“实际上，这不是午宴，而是晚宴。他们告诉我：‘托妮，这是一个非常随意的场合，你不用过分准备，如果你愿意的话，穿着牛仔裤来也行。”她停顿了一下，轻轻摇了摇头，对我们大家说道：“牛仔裤！我一辈子从来没穿过牛仔裤。我可不会穿着牛仔裤去白宫。” 然后她叹了口气，就好像跟我们解释也是徒劳，因为我们理解不了，因为我们无法理解她的成就 。
In 1984, Morrison was a single mother and a novelist with four books to her name, three of which — “The Bluest Eye,” “Sula” and “Song of Solomon” — are now considered classics. She had recently stopped working as an editor at Random House and published the essay “Rootedness: The Ancestor as Foundation” in an anthology. The essay in many ways articulated the terms that would define her writing. She noted that the novel “has always functioned for the class or the group that wrote it.” The novel that concerned itself with black Americans was remarkable and needed, she wrote, because it accomplished “certain very strong functions,” now that “we don’t live in places where we can hear those stories anymore” and “parents don’t sit around and tell their children those classical, mythological archetypal stories that we heard years ago.” The black novel was important because it could “suggest what the conflicts are, what the problems are,” not necessarily as a means of solving them but as a way of recording and reflecting them.
1984年的莫里森是一位单亲母亲和一位出版了四部作品的小说家。其中的三部——《最蓝的眼睛》(The Bluest Eye)，《苏拉》(Sula)和《所罗门之歌》(Song of Solomon)——现在已被奉为经典。在那年，她刚刚辞去了兰登出版社的编辑职务。她的散文《根深蒂固：做为基础的祖先》(Rootedness: The Ancestor as Foundation)被收入一本文集。从许多方面来说，这篇散文阐述了莫里森的创作理念。她指出，小说总是“对于创作出它的阶级和团体发挥功效”。她写道，以美国黑人为题材的小说意义非凡，起到了“某些非常大的作用”。黑人需要这样的小说，因为“我们远离了能够听到这些故事的地方”，而且，“今天的父母们也不会坐下来给他们的孩子们讲述这些我们多年前听到的经典的，有神话性质的原型故事。”黑人小说的重要性在于它能够“揭示冲突和问题所在”，虽然小说未必能解决这些问题，但却是一种记录和反思。
For years, dozens upon dozens of prominent black writers — people like Amiri Baraka, Maya Angelou, Jayne Cortez, Nikki Giovanni and John Edgar Wideman — were in orbit with one another. Some of these black writers had no formal affiliations, but many others organized themselves under efforts like Baraka’s Black Arts Movement, where they could share the duty of not only making art but also writing themselves into the world. They were not just producing poems, plays and novels, they were also considering the obligations of their specific genre — black literature — and its defining aspects and distinct functions. We no longer connect Morrison to that earlier, loosely defined constellation of black writing, but she was there, and she was there long before she was a novelist. During the years that she worked at Random House, she published books by Muhammad Ali, Henry Dumas, Angela Davis, Huey P. Newton, Toni Cade Bambara and Gayl Jones, whom she discovered in the 1970s. Jones’s manuscript was so impressive that when Morrison read it for the first time, uppermost in her mind, she once wrote, was “that no novel about any black woman could ever be the same after this.” It was Morrison who helped promote Ali’s book and who once hired members of the Fruit of Islam to work security for him. She also reviewed a biography of Angela Davis for The New York Times in 1972, slamming the author for being “another simpatico white girl who felt she was privy to the secret of how black revolutionaries got that way.”
多年来，一批又一批的著名黑人作家彼此影响——比如阿米利·巴拉卡(Amiri Baraka)、玛娅·安吉洛(Maya Angelou)、杰恩·科泰兹(Jayne Cortez)、尼基·乔瓦尼(Nikki Giovanni)和约翰·艾德加·怀德曼(John Edgar Wideman)。他们中的有些人并没有正式的组织联系，但是许多人都是某种活动的成员，比如巴拉卡的黑人文艺运动。他们有着共同的目标——不但创作艺术作品，而且要让世界倾听到他们的声音。他们不只是创作诗歌，戏剧和小说，他们也在思考黑人文学作为特定体裁的责任、定义和特殊功用。我们现在不再把莫里森和那个早期组织松散的黑人作家们联系起来。但是早在她成为一个小说家之前，她就是他们中的一员了。在她给兰登当编辑的那些年里，她出版了穆罕默德·阿里(Muhammad Ali)、亨利·杜马斯(Henry Dumas)、安吉拉·戴维斯(Angela Davis)、修依·P·牛顿(Huey P. Newton)、托妮·凯德·班巴拉(Toni Cade Bambara)和盖尔·琼斯(Gayl Jones)的作品。她在70年代发现了琼斯。当她第一次读到琼斯的手稿时，大为赞叹。她写道，当时她的第一反应就是：“这部作品之后，所有关于黑人妇女的小说都会不一样了。”莫里森提携了阿里的作品，有一次还雇佣“伊斯兰果实”的成员来为他充当保安。在1972年，她在《纽约时报》上发表了评论安吉拉·戴维斯传记的书评，指责传记作者“只不过是又一个想讨好所有人的白人女孩，觉得自己掌握了黑人革命者们的内情”。
And when the poet Henry Dumas went to his death, the way so many black boys and men do, it was Morrison, who never had a chance to meet him and published his work posthumously, who sent around a book-party announcement that was part invitation, part consolation, which read: “In 1968, a young black man, Henry Dumas, went through a turnstile at a New York City subway station. A transit cop shot him in the chest and killed him. Circumstances surrounding his death remain unclear. Before that happened, however, he had written some of the most beautiful, moving and profound poetry and fiction that I have ever in my life read.”
在诗人亨利·杜马斯像众多的黑人男性那样被警察开枪打死后，与他未曾谋面的莫里森出版了他的作品。在半是请柬半是悼词的出版庆祝会通告上，她是这么写的：“1968年，在一位年轻的黑人男性亨利·杜马斯走过纽约市地铁某个车站的旋转栅门时，一位在地铁里执勤的警察开枪击中了他的胸部打死了他。他死亡时的情形到现在也不甚明了。但在他生前，杜马斯创作出了我迄今为止读到过的最美好、感人和深刻的诗歌和小说。”
Two years after Dumas’s death, Morrison published her first novel, at 39. In many ways, she had prepared the world for her voice and heralded her arrival with her own editorial work. And yet the story of Pecola Breedlove, a broken black girl who wants blue eyes, was a novel that no one saw coming. Morrison relished unexpectedness. The first edition of “The Bluest Eye” starts Pecola’s story on the cover: “Quiet as it’s kept, there were no marigolds in the fall of 1941. We thought, at the time, that it was because Pecola was having her father’s baby that the marigolds did not grow.”
杜马斯去世后两年，莫里森出版了她的第一部小说，那年她39岁。在许多方面，莫里森的编辑工作是她创作生涯的前奏，她通过编辑为形成自己的创作声音打下了基础。尽管如此，《最蓝的眼睛》出乎所有人的意料。这部小说讲述了佩科拉·布里德洛瓦(Pecola Breedlove)的故事 ，她是一个备受摧残黑人小女孩，却渴望拥有一双蓝色的眼睛。莫里森喜欢出人意料。《最蓝的眼睛》的第一版把小说的开头印在了封面上：“1941年的秋天，尽管我们什么也没有声张，金盏花还是没有发芽 。当时，我们以为这是因为佩科拉怀了她父亲的孩子。”
Morrison’s work, since she published that first novel, has always delivered a heavy load. Her books are populated by both history and the people who are left out of history: a jealous, mentally ill hairdresser with a sharp knife (“Jazz,” 1992); a man who as a child suckled at his mother’s breast until those in the community found it odd (“Song of Solomon,” 1977); an enslaved woman, who would rather slice her own daughter's neck than let captivity happen to her (“Beloved,” 1987); and a destitute little girl, belly swollen with her father’s child, holding a Shirley Temple cup, desperate to have Temple’s bright blue eyes (“The Bluest Eye,” 1970).
莫里森之后的作品也都是内容沉重，含义深刻。她的小说富含历史，但之中的人物却都是被历史遗忘的角色：一位拿着利刃的、吃醋的、精神不健全的发型师（《爵士乐》[Jazz]，1992）；一个在童年时吃母乳一直吃到邻里侧目的男人（《所罗门之歌》，1997）；一位宁愿割断自己女儿的喉咙也不愿让她重蹈自己被奴役命运的母亲（《宠儿》[Beloved]，1987）；和一个贫苦的小女孩，大着肚子怀着自己父亲的孩子，手拿一个印有秀兰邓波儿的杯子，深切地渴望自己也有一双像她那样的蓝眼睛（《最蓝的眼睛》，1970）。
On one level, Morrison’s project is obvious: It is a history that stretches across 11 novels and just as many geographies and eras to tell a story that is hardly chronological but is thematically chained and somewhat continuous. This is the project most readily understood and accepted by even her least generous critics. But then there is the other mission, the less obvious one, the one in which Morrison often does the unthinkable as a minority, as a woman, as a former member of the working class: She democratically opens the door to all of her books only to say, “You can come in and you can sit, and you can tell me what you think, and I’m glad you are here, but you should know that this house isn’t built for you or by you.” Here, blackness isn’t a commodity; it isn’t inherently political; it is the race of a people who are varied and complicated. This is where her works become less of a history and more of a liturgy, still stretching across geographies and time, but now more pointedly, to capture and historicize: This is how we pray, this is how we escape, this is how we hurt, this is how we repent, this is how we move on. It is a project that, although ignored by many critics, evidences itself on the page. It has allowed Morrison to play with language, to take chances with how stories unravel and to consistently resist the demand to create an empirical understanding of black life in America. Instead, she makes black life — regular, quotidian black life, the kind that doesn’t sell out concert halls or sports stadiums — complex, fantastic and heroic, despite its devaluation. It is both aphorism and beyond aphorism, and a result has been pure possibility.
在某一个层面上来讲，莫里森所有作品的理念显而易见：她通过记录一段历史——这段历史贯穿了11部小说，涵盖了同样多的地理位置和时代——来讲述一个虽然不是严格按照时间顺序，但是却主题相通连贯的故事。这种对她作品的解释很好理解，即使是对她不那么友善的评论家也持有这种观点。但是莫里森的作品里却另有一个不那么明显的目的。莫里森经常突破她少数族裔、女性和工人阶级前成员的身份，完成了一些看起来不可能的事情：她一视同仁，打开通向她作品世界的大门，却是告诉读者：“你可以进来，也能坐下来欣赏。你可以告诉我你的想法，我也很高兴你来。但是你应该知道，这座房子不是给你造的，也不是由你所造。”在这儿，黑人身份并不是消费品，也没有与生俱来的政治性。这个种族的人民多样复杂。这些使得她的作品变得不那么有历史性，却多了一些宗教礼拜仪式的成分——同样贯穿了时间空间，但却更有针对性地来讲述记录——我们就是这样祈祷、躲避、伤害、悔改，然后继续生活。莫里森作品的这一目的虽然被大多数评论家忽视，但是却流露在字里行间。这一目的使得莫里森可以实验性地运用语言，随心所欲地构造故事，也使得她一直可以不用理会对美国黑人生活作出经验主义阐释的要求。她作品中的黑人人物并不能够让音乐厅或是体育场座无虚席。反而，她描绘的是寻常日常的黑人生活，虽然低微，她却使之复杂奇妙，崇高宏大。她作品中的黑人生活是格言警句，却又超越了格言警句，结果纯粹是一种可能性。
Often, in black literature, it seems as though the author is performing two roles: that of the explorer and the explainer. Morrison does not do this. Morrison writes stories that are more aesthetic than overtly political, better expressed in accurate Tolstoyan detail than in generalizing sentiments blunted with anger. Most important, she is an author who writes to tease and complicate her world, not to convince others it is valid.
在黑人文学中，作者经常扮演两个角色：探索家和解释者。莫里森没有这么做。她的故事并没有鲜明的政治性，而更具有美学价值。这些故事是托尔斯泰式的精确的细节描写，而不是被愤怒情绪削弱的情感概括。最重要的是，莫里森写作是为了揶揄她笔下的世界，并使之复杂化，而不是为了使别人信服这个世界的存在。
“What I’m interested in is writing without the gaze, without the white gaze,” she told me. “In so many earlier books by African-American writers, particularly the men, I felt that they were not writing to me. But what interested me was the African-American experience throughout whichever time I spoke of. It was always about African-American culture and people — good, bad, indifferent, whatever — but that was, for me, the universe.”
“我感兴趣的是写作时不在意别人的关注，也就是白人的关注，”她告诉我说。“许多非裔美国作家，尤其是男性作家，我感觉他们早期的作品并不是写给我看的。我所感兴趣的是美国黑人的经历——不论是哪个时间段。我关注的话题总是美国黑人的文化和人民——这些有好有坏，或是无关紧要，但对我来说这些就是宇宙。”
In 1842, Charles Dickens, at the time one of the greatest authors writing in English, took a steamboat trip across Lake Erie. He was most excited to see Niagara Falls. While waiting for the boat in Sandusky, Ohio, he lamented that he wanted to be getting along with his trip and was apparently uninterested in passing through the next town, Vermilion, or seeing the small curve of land that would one day be Morrison’s birthplace, Lorain. Dickens concluded that “their demeanor in these country parts is invariably morose, sullen, clownish and repulsive. I should think there is not, on the face of the earth, a people so destitute of humor, vivacity or the capacity of enjoyment. It is most remarkable. I am quite serious when I say that I have not heard a hearty laugh these six weeks, except my own; nor have I seen a merry face on any shoulders but a black man’s.”
1842年，当时英语世界最伟大作家之一的查尔斯·狄更斯坐了汽船穿过伊利湖。将要看到尼加拉瀑布，他激动万分。在俄亥俄州的桑德斯基等船的时候，他哀叹不能快一点到达目的地。很显然，对于旅途的下一站凡米利翁镇，或是将来有一天会成为莫里森出生地的洛雷恩，狄更斯丝毫不感兴趣。他总结到：“这些乡下城镇居民的举止态度总是闷闷不乐，阴郁寡欢，滑稽愚蠢，让人反感。我认为，在整个世上都找不到比他们更没有幽默感，缺乏活力，不懂享受的人民了。在这六个星期里，我没有听到一声真心的笑声，除了我自己的；也没有看见一张快乐的面容，除了一位黑人的——这么说我是认真的。”
When I first read this, I wondered for days who this merry black man was who was so remarkably different from the other Ohioans that Dickens encountered. Did this merry man know his difference warranted a mention from Dickens himself? Did this merry man read? At the time of Dickens’s visit, 19 years before the Civil War, there were laws that prohibited black enslaved people from being taught to read or write. Was it even possible for Dickens to imagine that within a leap of a hundred years a girl would be born there who would become one the few people who could relate to his lofty position as one of the greatest writers ever to live? We will never know the thoughts of this particular merry man, but his appearance in Dicken’s travelogue almost presages the novels of Morrison, novels that have ensured that lives like his are no longer merely passing mentions in another man’s notes.
当我第一次读到这段话时，好几天我都在想：这位狄更斯遇见的快乐黑人跟别的俄亥俄州居民如此不同，他到底是谁呢？这个快乐的人知道自己的不同竟然被狄更斯注意并描写下来吗？这个快乐的人认字吗？狄更斯在俄亥俄州的旅行发生在美国内战的19年前，那时的法律禁止教授黑奴读书写字。狄更斯可能想像的到：有一个黑人女孩在他游历之后的一百年内出生，并且成为可以与他比肩的、世上寥寥无几的最伟大的作家之一吗？ 我们不知道那位快乐的黑人是怎么想的，但是他在狄更斯游记里的出现几乎可以说是预示了莫里森的小说，而在这些小说里，像他这样的黑人的生活将不止是在另一个人的笔下一带而过。
She wasn’t born Toni Morrison. She had to become that person. She was born Chloe Wofford in 1931. Her parents, Ramah and George Wofford, were Southerners who came to Ohio at the beginning of the 20th century. She grew up hearing about how her mother’s father, John Solomon Willis, a violinist, often had to leave his wife and family behind on a farm in Greenville, Ala., to go to Birmingham to make money. Morrison recalled that her grandmother, Ardelia Willis, realized as the months passed that the white boys in the area were “circling,” meaning her girls were getting toward that age. And when she saw white boys out in the yard, she knew what was up. This image and her grandmother’s way of speech have stayed with her: “I like the way she said ‘circling,’ ” Morrison told me. After sending a message to her husband that they could no longer stay put, Morrison’s grandmother took her children in the dead of the night and got on the first train they could find that would take them away.
她并非生来就是托妮·莫里森。 她做出了努力才成为托妮·莫里森。1931年她出生时，名叫克罗伊·沃福德。她的父母，拉玛·沃福德和乔治·沃福德(Ramah and George Wofford)在20世纪初从南方迁到俄亥俄州。她是听着她外公的故事长大的。她的外公叫约翰·所罗门·威利斯(John Solomon Willis)，是一位小提琴手。他和妻子和家人住在阿拉巴马州格林威尔镇一个农场上。但是他不得不经常离开他们，到伯明翰赚钱。莫里森回忆道，她的外婆奥黛丽娅·威利斯(Ardelia Willis)过了好几个月才明白过来为什么住在附近的白人男孩会围着她家“团团转”。这意味着她的女儿们到了那个年龄。当她看见白人男孩在院子外面的时候，她清楚他们想干什么。莫里森一直不能忘掉这一场景和外婆的说话方式：“我喜欢她说的‘团团转’这个词，”她告诉我。外婆给丈夫捎了信，说他们不能再呆下去了。然后在一个深夜，她带着孩子们坐上了他们能赶上的第一辆火车，离开了那里。
When Morrison’s father was 14 or 15, two black businessmen who lived on his street were lynched in succession, and afterward, he left the South and by a circuitous route headed to Ohio. Morrison said: “He never told us that he’d seen bodies. But he had seen them. And that was too traumatic, I think, for him.”
在莫里森父亲14或15岁的时候，两位跟他家住在一条街上的黑人商人前后遭到私刑。在那之后，他离开了南方，迂回辗转到了俄亥俄州。莫里森说：“他从来没有告诉我们他见过死人。但是他见过。我觉得那对他来说是一个心理创伤。”
One of the most important things she remembers about her father, she told me, is “how much he hated white people. Once I saw him throw a white man down the stairs, because he thought he was coming — I think the guy was drunk — but still he was coming up the stairs, and my father thought he was after his girls, so he picked him up and threw him down the stairs and threw our tricycle after him.” She wrote about this incident in an essay for this magazine in 1976, and concluded that even though she was very small when she witnessed it, it taught her something key: “that my father could win” and “that it was possible to win.”
关于父亲的回忆最重要的一件事情之一就是他“非常仇视白人”。莫里森告诉我说：“有一次我看见他把一个白人推下楼梯，我想那个白人是喝醉了。但是他还是往楼梯上爬。父亲以为他是想对他的女儿们图谋不轨。所以他拎起了他，把他摔下了楼梯，然后还把我们的三轮车朝他扔了过去。”她在1976年发表于本杂志的一篇散文中提到了这件事。她写道：虽然事件发生时自己还小，但是这件事却教给她关键一课：“那就是，父亲可以获胜”，而且“取得胜利是可能的”。
But Morrison didn’t grow up, she said, “with that particular kind of alarm or fear or distrust of white people, personally.” She described Lorain as a place where “immigrants were everywhere, Italians and Polish people and Jewish people and black people. Some of them came down from Canada. So I never lived in a black neighborhood, and the schools were mixed, and there was one high school. And also we played together.”
但是莫里森说，在她成长过程中，她“个人并没有怀有对白人的警觉、惧怕，或是不信任的情绪”。她所描述的洛雷恩“到处都是移民，有意大利人、波兰人、犹太人和黑人。有些人来自加拿大。所以我从来没有在黑人社区生活过。学校的学生们也是来自各个背景。只有一所高中，我们都在一起玩”。
The Woffords were not well off. They just worked hard. There was a railroad that ran through Lorain, and when she was little, her father used to take her and her sister, Lois, out to collect fallen bits of coal as the train trembled by. I didn’t tell her that when I once drove through Lorain, with the big sky looking, as she once wrote, “carnival” over the flat, Midwestern expanse, it seemed like a place perfect for an imaginative child — a keen observer, a relentless reader whose mind was full of her mother’s ghost stories, visions of Russian dachas from Tolstoy, and Moorish princes from Shakespeare and poor-orphan fairy tales from Dickens — to come up with characters of her own.
沃福德家并不富裕。他们辛勤劳作。 有一条铁路穿过洛雷恩。莫里森小时候，她的父亲带着她和妹妹露易斯到铁路边。当火车颠簸着开过时，他们就把落到地上的煤块拾起。我没有告诉莫里森，有一次我开车路过洛雷恩，广阔的天空就像她有一次写到的那样“狂欢”地笼罩着中西部的辽阔平原。这个地方对于一个想像力丰富的孩子来说再合适不过了。小时候的莫里森是一个细致的观察者，一个如饥似渴的读者，脑子里充满了妈妈讲的鬼故事，托尔斯泰小说里俄国乡间别墅的画面，莎剧里的摩尔王子，和狄更斯小说里可怜孤儿的童话故事，并构想着自己的人物创作。
Life in Lorain taught Morrison a few things that were to set her apart when she went off to Washington, D.C., to study literature at Howard University. The first was that she never would be the sort of person who would be roped in by self-satisfied, self-segregating celebrations of blackness as something unimpeachable. Morrison was raised to compete on broader stages, with people from all walks of life, and she wasn’t used to thinking of white people as the estranged other. At Howard, she wanted to write a term paper on the role of black people in Shakespeare, but her professor thought it was “low-class” to read and research black life. It also made her uneasy and deeply disappointed that at Howard, skin color worked as a caste system. This was something she had only read about, and she found it off-putting and silly. But in Washington, she also encountered for the first time lunch counters she could not sit at, fountains she could not drink from and stores where her money was simply no good. The confines of the campus acted as a space of blessed comfort. She simply could not take segregation seriously. “I think it’s a theatrical thing,” she told me. “I always felt that everything else was the theater. They didn’t really mean that. How could they? It was too stupid.”
洛雷恩的生活教会了莫里森一些东西，使得她在华盛顿特区的霍华德大学学习文学时显得与众不同。其中的首要的一点就是她永远也不会成为那些自我满足，自我隔离，并以此为傲，认为自己无可指摘的黑人中的一员。莫里森受到的教育是让她在更广大的舞台上和来自各行各业的人竞争。她不习惯把白人看做疏离的异类。在霍华德，她想写一篇关于莎剧里黑人角色的学期论文，但是她的教授却认为阅读和研究黑人生活“不上档次”。在霍华德，肤色就是一种种姓制度，这让她深感不安和失望。她以前只是读到过这种情况，觉得这非常愚蠢，让人气恼。但是在华盛顿，她也第一次经历了黑人不能在某些午餐柜台坐下，不能在某些饮水机喝水，不能在某些商店消费。校园就像一个封闭空间，没有这些不公，让人感到欣喜慰藉。莫里森压根儿就不能接受种族隔离真实存在：“我觉得这太戏剧性了，”她告诉我说。“我总是觉得一切都是一出戏。种族隔离不是他们的本意。他们怎么可能这么做？这太愚蠢了。”
After college and graduate school at Cornell, Morrison eventually returned to Howard to teach. She married. She had a son, and then while she was months into her second pregnancy, her marriage fell apart. She decided to go back to Lorain to figure out what would come next. In the back pages of The New York Review of Books, she saw an editing position at the textbook division of Random House. She applied and got the job. With two young sons, Morrison moved to Syracuse and started to work in the completely foreign industry of editors, agents and writers.
从大学和康奈尔大学研究生院毕业后，莫里森最终回到了霍华德教书。她结了婚，生了个儿子。在第二次怀孕几个月时，她的婚姻破裂了。她决定回到洛雷恩思考下一步该怎么办。在《纽约书评》的封底，她看到了兰登的教科书部门在招聘编辑。她申请并得到了这个职位。莫里森带着两个年幼的儿子搬到了雪城，开始在一个全新的行业里和编辑们，经纪人们和作家们一起共事。
The perplexing but wonderful thing about Morrison’s career is just how much her prominence was created not by the mainstream publishing world, but by Morrison herself, on her own terms, in spite of it. The French literary theorist Pascale Casanova suggests in her book “The World Republic of Letters” that all literature is a kind of a cultural battleground where dominant forces routinely crush the stories of those who are the underdog. “Literary space is not an immutable structure, fixed once and for all in its hierarchies and power relations,” Casanova writes, adding that “even if the unequal distribution of literary resources assures that such forms of domination will endure, it is also a source of incessant struggle of challenges to authority and legitimacy, of rebellions, insubordination and, ultimately, revolutions that alter the balance of literary power and rearrange existing hierarchies.”
关于莫里森写作生涯， 有一点非常了不起，但却让人困惑：她虽然是主流出版业的一员，但是她的声望却完全靠自己创造。法国文论家帕斯卡·卡萨诺瓦(Pascale Casanova)在她的著作《文人共和国》(The World Republic of Letters)中提到，文学是一个文化战场，主导势力惯常地打压弱势一方讲述的故事。她写道：“文学空间不是一个等级和权力关系一旦固定就一成不变的结构。文化资源的不平等分布确保了主导势力的延续，但是这种不平等分布也导致对权威和正统的挑战。这种斗争，叛逆和反抗持续不断，最终发展为打破文学势力的平衡和重组现有等级关系的革命。 ”
In 1988, a collective of 48 black writers and intellectuals published and signed a statement in The New York Times, upbraiding the publishing industry for its “oversight and harmful whimsy” toward Morrison and James Baldwin. “Despite the international stature of Toni Morrison, she has yet to receive the national recognition that her five major works of fiction entirely deserve: She has yet to receive the keystone honors of the National Book Award or the Pulitzer Prize,” they wrote. “It is a fact that James Baldwin, celebrated worldwide and posthumously designated as ‘immortal’ and as ‘the conscience of his generation,’ never received the honor of these keystones to the canon of American literature.” “Beloved,” they said, was Morrison’s most recent gift to our community, our country and our national conscience. They refused to stand by as it was snubbed by the National Book Awards. “Beloved,” they felt, had finally given expression to “a universe of complicated, sweetly desiring, fierce and deeply seductive human beings hitherto subsumed by, hitherto stifled by, that impenetrable nobody-noun: ‘the slave.’ ”
1988年，48位作家和文人联名在《纽约时报》上发表声明，谴责出版业对莫里森和詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)的“忽视和有害的任性态度”。他们写道：“虽然莫里森在国际上享有盛誉，但是她在美国国内还没有得到认可。凭着她的五部主要小说作品，她完全应该得到国家图书奖和普利策奖。”他们还写道：“詹姆斯·鲍德温世界闻名，并在去世后获得了‘不朽’和‘他那个时代的良心’这样的褒誉之词，但事实是他的作品从来没有被这两项重要奖项认可为美国文学经典。”他们认为，《宠儿》是莫里森献给我们的社会，我们的国家和我们的国家意识最新的礼物。它没有获得国家图书奖，他们拒绝无动于衷。他们认为，《宠儿》一书终于为那个“有着复杂的人性， 充满着甜蜜的欲望， 有着炽热的情感和极大的诱惑力的宏大人群发声，而这些人在之前却是被一个没有人性的晦涩名词——‘奴隶’——所归纳和压制，”
Two months later, Morrison was awarded the Pulitzer Prize. A few years after that, she won the Nobel Prize. She is still, 20 years later, the only living American laureate for literature. The last time one was awarded to an American-born writer was in 1962 to John Steinbeck. And yet in their act of defiance, these 48 black letter writers had observed a truth that the fact of Morrison’s awards cannot alter: that they were working within a culture that fundamentally wasn’t interested in them and they therefore had recognized what the establishment at large had refused to; that, now and then, writers of color must struggle to merely tread water in a sea of what another Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist, Junot Díaz, described to me as “the unbearable whiteness” of American literature.
这份声明发表的两个月之后，莫里森获得了普利策奖。这之后几年，她又获得了诺贝尔文学奖。20年后的今天，她是美国唯一还在世的诺贝尔文学奖得主。在她之前，上一个获得诺贝尔文学奖的美国作家是约翰·斯坦贝克(John Steinbeck)。他的获奖年份是1962年。虽然是挑战之举，但是这48位黑人作家却在他们的声明中指出了一个即使莫里森获奖也改变不了的事实，那就是：他们所处的文化从根本上就对他们不感兴趣，他们的关注对象是整个文学界拒绝关注的；他们还注意到，有色人种作家有时还不得不在美国文学“难以忍受的白色”（普利策奖得主、小说家朱诺·迪亚斯[Junot Díaz]之语）之海中苦苦挣扎，停滞不前。 
This is a problem even for Morrison. She is often discussed in terms of her audience, the older black women who fan themselves with her book covers at her readings, the teenage girls who sigh on buses and trains while reading “Sula” for class, the young male rappers who have interpolated lines from “The Bluest Eye” into their songs. It is this audience that her critics dismiss derisively, suggesting that Morrison panders to them, with long, poetic sentences and stories about broken black women. It is also true that a sizable portion of her audience simply looks like her, in a world where black Americans, and people of color in general, are still perceived to be nonreaders. But of course Morrison, rather than feeling marginalized or slighted by that criticism, takes delight in it. In an interview for The Paris Review, she said: “I would like to write novels that were unmistakably mine but nevertheless fit first into African-American traditions and, second of all, this whole thing called literature.” She added: “It’s very important to me that my work be African-American. If it assimilates into a different or larger pool, so much the better. But I shouldn’t be asked to do that. Joyce is not asked to do that. Tolstoy is not. I mean, they can all be Russian, French, Irish or Catholic, they write out of where they come from, and I do too.” It is a reply that stumps her interviewer. First African-American, she asks her, as if Morrison had stuttered. Yes, Morrison replies. Rather than the whole of literature she asks. “Oh, yes,” Morrison replies.
即使对莫里森这样的作家来说，这也是一个问题。人们常常从她的读者出发来评论她。而她的读者是那些在读书会上用她的作品封面当扇子扇的年长的黑人妇女；是那些在大巴和火车上为完成课堂作业而读《苏拉》并发出叹息声的少女；是那些把《最蓝的眼睛》里的词句插入歌曲中的年轻饶舌男歌手。莫里森的批评者看不起这些读者，认为莫里森用富有诗意的长句子和悲催的黑人女性的故事来迎合这些读者。在美国，黑人和整个有色人群直到现在都被认为没有阅读习惯，而莫里森的读者有相当一部分人跟她来自同一族群，这也是事实。但是莫里森并没有觉得这种批评是对自己的贬损，相反，她很高兴听到这种批评。在一次和《巴黎书评》的采访中，她说到：“我想写出有我自己确凿无误特点的小说。但首先，我的创作要遵循美国黑人的传统，文学性是我其次考虑的。”她接着又说到：“我的作品是美国黑人的，这对我来说非常重要。如果它们能被一个不同或是更大的范畴所容纳，那自然更好。但是我没有责任让我的作品超越美国黑人的范畴。乔伊斯没有责任这么做，托尔斯泰也没有。我的意思是，不管作家是俄国人、法国人、爱尔兰人，又或是天主教徒，他们的创作总是从自身的背景出发，我也不例外。”这番回答难住了她的采访者。“首先是美国黑人的”，采访者重复道，好像莫里森刚才没有说清楚一样。“对”，莫里森回答到。“然后才是文学性。”“没错，”莫里森说。
This was a radical idea. Morrison wanted to not only broaden the tastes of the industry, she also wanted to change the fate of a literary culture that had to either diversify or die. She told me that the books she edited and wrote were her contribution to the civil rights movement. By publishing black geniuses, she was also forcing the ranks of the big publishing houses and the industry to become more hospitable to her point of view, to the idea that a black writer could write for a black audience first and still write literature. She was more humanist than nationalistic, more visionary than didactic, but to some extent her editorial work was political. “We don’t need any more writers as solitary heroes,” Morrison said in her 1981 keynote address at the American Writers Congress. “We need a heroic writer’s movement: assertive, militant, pugnacious.”
这是一个相当激进的观点。莫里森不但想要拓宽文学界的品味，她还想改变文学创作不具备多样性就得死亡的命运。她告诉我，她编辑和创作的著作是她对民权运动的贡献。通过发表杰出黑人作家的作品，她迫使大出版社和整个出版业更加开明，从而接受她的观点，那就是：黑人作家的首要宗旨是为本族群写作，但这并不意味着他们的作品不是文学。与其说莫里森是一个民族主义者，不如说她是一个人文主义者；她更有远见卓识，而不是拘于说教。但是她的编辑工作有一定的政治性。在1981年美国作家代表大会的主题演讲中，莫里森说：“我们不再需要作家充当单打独斗的英雄。我们需要一个观点明确、斗志昂扬的英勇的作家运动。”
What we know now is that the inclusive, empowered revolution that Morrison raised a battle cry for has failed to come to pass. Over the last decade or so, a righteous assault on the hegemony that exists in American literature has come to the fore. Suddenly, the old guard’s oft-repeated line that people of color don’t read, that they don’t submit, that their work isn’t up to snuff was being widely and publicly debunked by workshops run by programs like Kimbilio, Voices of Our Nation Arts Foundation and the Asian-American Writers’ Workshop. But what has remained more elusive is the part that Morrison figured out as an editor: What happens after the workshop and the head count? How do people change an establishment? How do people change an industry?
我们现在知道，莫里森为之鼓吹的这个兼容并包、增权益能的革命并没有发生。过去十年左右，涌现出了一股标榜正义的力量，讨伐美国文学中存在的文化霸权。忽然间，诸如 “Kimbilio”, “我们的国民之声”艺术基金会，亚裔美国作家研习班开设的写作项目等组织开始大范围地、公开地推翻那些守旧人士经常重复的论调——比如有色人种没有阅读习惯；他们从不投稿；即使投稿了，他们的作品也经不住推敲，等等。但是，在莫里森当编辑时就已经想到的一些问题还并没有明确的答案：即使学生从这些写作研习班毕业，这之后会发生什么？人们怎么改变一个权威体制？以及怎么对一个行业做出改变？
Morrison serves as a totem for so much of this energy. It is not just that her writing is singular; her efforts to change the lay of the land have also been singular. Junot Díaz recalled to me that seeing Toni Morrison on the cover of Time was revelatory for him as a young writer for this exact reason. “At that moment,” he said, “you could feel the demographic shift, you could feel in the ’90s what the future was going to be and when you look at the literary world now, and it’s almost like that future was never realized. The literary world has tripled down on its whiteness.” When I asked him to explain, he said: “Well, if you think about what the colors and faces and the backgrounds of our young people are in all of our public schools, and then you look at the writers who this society valorizes, the disconnect is intergalactic. It’s almost as if they saw the future in the Time cover and said, ‘Well, we’ve got to make sure to get Franzen on the cover as a prayer against, or an attempt to exorcise, that imminent future.’ ”
莫里森是这股变革力量的图腾。这不单是因为她独特的写作，她对改变现状所做出的努力也引人瞩目。朱诺·迪亚斯跟我回忆起看到托妮·莫里森上了《时代》杂志的封面，这对当时身为青年作家的他来说是一个启示。“在那一时刻，”他说：“你能感觉到人口构成在发生变化。当时是90年代，你却能预想到未来会是一番什么样的景象。可是，当你看看现在的文学界，那个未来根本没有实现。现在的文学界比那时还要‘白’得多。”我让他进一步解释，他说：“如果你看看在所有我们的公立学校学习的年轻人来自何种种族文化背景，然后再看看社会推崇什么样的作家，你会看到存在的落差是巨大的。这就好像他们当年也从《时代》封面上看到了未来，然后说：‘嗯，我们得确保弗兰岑上封面，作为一种祈求，或是一种努力，让那个即将发生的未来不能成真。’”
Later, at home, after having spent time with Morrison and rereading “Beloved” and “God Help the Child” back to back, an embarrassing thing happened to me: I felt a knot in my throat that then became heavy sadness. My tears disabled me, and I found them inscrutable. Something hurt. Slowly I recognized what was behind my crying: fear and worry. I was worried about what will happen to the stories. For decades Morrison has reflected back to us what it’s meant to be on the other side of this country’s approved history. When young white men again sing songs about lynching black men without being able recall who taught them those songs, and the hateful origins of the N-word are erased by a convenient amnesia to allow its constant use by outsiders, who will tell the stories we don’t tell ourselves? When we still have to assert that we matter, when African-Americans represent an estimated 1 percent of those working at the big publishing houses, when women and writers of color have to track how seldom they are given chances to tell their stories and when the publishing industry fails to support or encourage this generation’s writers of color in any real or meaningful way, a dangerous reality is possible. What will happen to the next generation of authors who are writing from the margins?
和莫里森会面后，我回到了家，从头到尾重读了《宠儿》和《上帝救助孩子》。一件尴尬的事发生了：一个结块堵在了我的喉头，然后变成了沉重的悲哀。我的眼泪让我不能自已，可是我又说不出泪水的来由。什么东西伤痛着我。慢慢地，我弄明白了泪水的缘由：恐惧和担心。我担心莫里森的这些故事将来的遭遇。几十年来，莫里森反思并告诉我们处于这个国家被认可历史的另一面意味着什么。当年轻的男性白人又一次唱起对黑人男性施以私刑的歌曲，而无法记起是谁教会了他们这些歌曲；当“黑鬼”这个词充满仇视的原意被省心合宜的健忘症所抹煞，以至于外人也能随便使用，又有谁来讲述那些我们自己都不去讲述的故事？当我们还不得不重申我们很重要，当美国黑人只占大出版社工作人员的百分之一，当女性和有色人种作家只有寥寥可数的机会来讲述他们的故事，当出版业没能以任何有诚意和有意义的方式支持和鼓励这一代有色人种作家，一个危险的现实将会成为可能。下一代处在边缘写作的作家又会遇到什么？
The lobby of Random House is full of old books displayed inside towering glass cases. There is a worn cookbook by Escoffier; “No Exit,” by Sartre; “Moby-Dick,” by Melville; “Invisible Man,” by Ralph Ellison. Prominently centered is an early edition of “Song of Solomon,” by Morrison. I had come to see Chris Jackson, the executive editor at Spiegel & Grau, an imprint of Random House, and one of the roughly five or six black senior editors in America with a position at a major publishing company.
兰登出版社的大堂摆满了陈列在高高的玻璃柜子里的旧书。有一本被翻的很旧的埃科菲的菜谱；萨特的《禁闭》；梅尔维尔的《白鲸记》；拉尔夫·埃里森(Ralph Ellison)的《隐形人》。占据正中显眼位置的是莫里森《所罗门之歌》的早期版本。我来兰登是要拜访克里斯·杰克逊(Chris Jackson)，他是兰登旗下的出版社Spiegel & Grau的执行主编。在美国大出版社里任职的黑人高级编辑就那么五六个，杰克逊是其中之一。
Jackson’s office is full of books by the authors he has published: Victor LaValle’s acclaimed novels, Mat Johnson’s “Pym,” Eddie Huang’s “Fresh Off the Boat” and Bryan Stevenson’s “Just Mercy.” Jackson is in his mid-40s, wears glasses with clear plastic frames and has a graying beard. He has the contemplative look of a person who has spent most of his life reading. His desk is cluttered with magazines like The New Yorker and The Atlantic, marked drafts and a picture of his young son. Above his desk, I spied two copies of “The Black Book,” an anthology edited by Morrison and published in 1974 that was an iconoclastic, archival look at black life in America. Among all the books that Morrison championed and shepherded at Random House, “The Black Book” stands out as a strange and singular creation and one that vividly captures her notion of writing and publishing from within the black experience, without the white gaze. It is a book that works almost like a scrapbook of black life in America: a collection of photographs, illustrations, and essays. It contains quotes from the poet Henry Dumas and cartoons of sambos carrying watermelons, along with pictures of pretty black centerfolds and stories about runaways who made their break for freedom and found it.
杰克逊的办公室里摆满了他出版过的作家的作品：维克多·拉瓦勒(Victor LaValle)广受好评的小说，马特·约翰逊(Mat Johnson)的《皮姆》(Pym)，黄颐铭(Eddie Huang)的《初来乍到》(Fresh Off the Boat)和布莱恩·斯蒂文森(Bryan Stevenson)的《公正的怜悯》(Just Mercy)。杰克逊四十多岁，带着透明的塑料边框眼镜，留着灰白的胡须。他的书桌上凌乱地摆放着《纽约客》和《大西洋月刊》这类杂志，做了批注的草稿和一张他年幼的儿子的照片。在他的桌子上，我看到了两本《黑人之书》。这部打破传统观念的文集由莫里森编辑并于1974年出版，史料性地记录了美国黑人的生活经历。莫里森在兰登支持和帮助过的所有作品中，《黑人之书》最为奇特。这本书反应了她对于写作和编辑的观点，那就是从黑人的经验出发，而不去考虑白人的关注。《黑人之书》几乎就像是一本记录美国黑人生活的剪贴簿，包括了照片，插画和文章。书里面有诗人亨利·杜马斯的诗句，黑人扛着西瓜的漫画，妩媚的黑人插页女郎的照片，还有逃跑的黑奴重获自由的故事。
I asked Jackson if he thought that “The Black Book” opened the parameters of people’s perception of what black literature would look like at Random House. He paused. “It’s hard to say, because I can’t speak authoritatively on the publishing scene in the 1970s,” he said. “But I think that at that time there weren’t, and today there aren’t, a lot of black editors. Editors were looking for black literature that felt like a commentary on black life, and she was doing books that were about the kind of internal experience of being black, just like the books she writes are.” He added, “I think white editors at that time, and even today, are mostly looking for black writers working in whatever mode happens to be selling at the time; either that, or writers who were writing out of protest,” he said.
我问杰克逊他是否认为《黑人之书》拓展了兰登的编辑们对黑人文学的看法。他想了一下，说：“这很难说，因为对于七十年代的出版界，我并不能给出权威的说法。但是我想在那时和现在，都没有很多黑人编辑。编辑们希望能找到对黑人生活作出评论的黑人文学。而莫里森编辑的作品和她自己的写作一样，是关于黑人自身的经历。”他接着又说：“我认为大多数那时甚至是今天的编辑都在寻找能迎合时代大众所好的黑人作家，或者是把写作作为抗议的作家。”
As he spoke, I flipped through his first-edition copy of “The Black Book,” because I had never seen it before. He noticed my distraction and said: “ ‘The Black Book’ is not exactly a celebration of black life. It is a gathering together of artifacts. It’s a sort of way of witnessing black life, but, again, it does feel like it’s coming from the perspective within the black community. It’s not like an anthropological book at all. It’s almost a family history in a way. Again, I think that points to the difference in her perspective.”
当他说这番话时，我翻看着他的初版《黑人之书》，因为之前我从没见过这第一版。杰克逊注意到我的分神，说：“《黑人之书》并不完全是对黑人生活的歌颂。它是各种工艺品的汇集。它是对黑人生活的见证，但是，你会觉得它的视角完全是从黑人社会内部出发的。它完全不是一部人类学著作，而更像是一部家庭历史。这些又都说明了莫里森视角的与众不同。”
Jackson is a diplomatic person, and I could see him thinking when I asked him about the biases of the industry. For example, how when Morrison became the first black woman to be awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1993, there were those who asked if she deserved the award. “The literary community is not free of the prejudices of larger society, to put it nicely,” he said. “In some ways, it’s less representative of the racial diversity of America than almost any industry I know. I feel like black literature, black art, has always been put in a separate category. I think there’s always been a lot of surprising and enduring lack of full respect in certain quarters about the fact that Toni Morrison, with ‘Beloved,’ wrote the best American novel published probably in my lifetime, and it was written about a subject that Americans don’t like to talk about or are incapable of talking about in a lot of ways.
杰克逊是一个委婉的人。我能看出，当我问他关于出版业的偏见时，他在思考如何措辞。当莫里森在1993年获得诺贝尔文学奖，成为第一个获此殊荣的黑人女性时，有人质疑她是否实质名归。我问杰克逊对此的看法。“说好听一点，文学界无法摆脱整个社会上的偏见，”他说：“在某些方面，在体现美国种族的多样性上，文学界比其它任何一个我所知道的行业都要差。我感觉黑人文学，黑人艺术总是被单独归类。托妮·莫里森的《宠儿》也许是我有生之年里出版过的最好的美国小说，而它所触及的话题是美国人不愿意或者是不能够谈及的。在某些圈子里，这一事实一直没有得到完全尊重，这实在是让人吃惊。”
“But I do think the resentment, part of it, is that the self-conscious literary establishment is a clubby kind of world where everyone is like, ‘Well, this is not the person who’s my person, who represents me,’ and the literary world in America is filled with people who are represented by white men or white women. I mean, there are almost no people in literature represented by a black woman, right?” Right, I said. Right.
“但是，我认为造成这种仇视的一部分原因是自恋的文学界就像是一个俱乐部，每个人都在说：‘这个人不是我的人，他不代表我。’而美国的文学界充满了代表白人男性和白人女性的人。我的意思是，在文学界几乎没有人被一个黑人女性所代表，对吧？”对，我说。太对了。
It was still winter, but the day had spring undertones, a good deal of sun and now a pink evening sky that I could see through the slots of the skyscrapers. Across the way, I could see a dance class that was in session, a row of arms in flight. Yellow taxis scuttled down below like beetles. The building directly adjacent to his office seemed to be a hotel, and someone was turning down the sheets. It was one of those moments in which New York feels timeless.
这冬季的一天已经有些春意。阳光明媚。而现在，透过摩天大楼的间隙，我能看见粉霞照映的天空。在对面，我能看见一个正在上课的舞蹈班里一排飞舞的手臂。在下面，黄色的出租车就像爬来爬去的甲壳虫。和杰克逊办公室紧邻着的建筑似乎是一个旅馆，有人在房间里整理床铺。在这个时刻，纽约似乎不受时间流逝的影响。
Jackson walked me out to the elevator and for some reason, as I passed the row of offices, I began to self-consciously whisper. It was the end of the workday, and the elevator stopped on almost every floor. A tired, older woman with frizzy gray hair got on and smiled. A middle-aged man held the door for his co-worker. They all looked like nice people, bookish people, people I might know in the city. Two younger women got on, holding tote bags full of books, as most young people in this scene do. They smiled at me too. I did not feel any different from them or think twice about myself, until I got to the lobby, where I realized that the only black or Latino people I had seen that afternoon besides Jackson were the security guards in the lobby. Unless, that is, you counted Toni, Ralph and Maya peering down at me from those glass cases, immortalized in what seemed like a distant past.
杰克逊把我送到了电梯口。不知怎么的，当我们走过一排排办公室时，我开始有意识地低声说话。现在是下班时间，电梯几乎每层都会停留。一位疲惫的，留着灰白卷发的年长女士走了进来，冲我微笑着打了招呼。一位中年男士为他的同事挡住了电梯门。他们看上去都很面善，有着书生气，就像我在城里认识的朋友。又上来了两位年轻女士，和在这里大多数的年轻人一样，她们拿着装满书的口袋。她们也冲我微笑着打了招呼。我不觉得自己跟他们有什么不同，也没有过多的留意自己。直到我走进了大堂，我才意识到，那个下午除了杰克逊，我所见到的别的非裔或是拉丁裔的人就是大堂的保安了。除非你算上从玻璃柜子往下俯视我的托妮，拉尔夫和玛雅，他们像是来自久远的年代，早已成为不朽。
The last afternoon I spent with Toni Morrison was at her loft in TriBeCa. It was one of the biggest apartments I have seen in the city. Large, evocative, abstract paintings by her deceased son, Slade, hung on most of the walls. There were built-in white bookcases that stretched up to the ceilings, and here and there were solid but elegantly carved pieces of antique furniture: a drafting table in the foyer, a long table for dining. Set among the plush tan, white and cream sofas and chairs was an oak coffee table. It was a steel-gray winter Monday morning, and through the windows, the bridges in the distance looked as if they were held up by land masses made of sleet and ice. Morrison sat smoking with one of her closest friends, a petite white woman named Eileen. I bummed a cigarette, and the three of us sat over coffee, our smoke spinning in the air, up toward the view of Lower Manhattan.
我和托妮·莫里森度过的最后一个下午是在她纽约市翠贝卡区的阁楼里。这是我在城里见过的最大的公寓之一了。公寓大部分墙上都挂着她已故儿子斯雷德创作的惹眼的大幅抽象画作。定制的白色书柜有天花板那么高。屋子里点缀着厚重但却精工细雕的古典家具：一张书桌摆放在门厅，餐桌是长条形的。在柔软的褐色，白色和米色的沙发和椅子中间是一张橡木做的咖啡桌。这是冬天一个灰色的星期一早晨，窗外，远处的桥梁看上去就好像被雨雪和冰块构成的陆地所包裹。莫里森和一位密友坐着吸烟。这位朋友名叫艾莲，是位娇小的白种女士。我跟她们要了一根烟。我们三人坐着享用咖啡， 空气中缭绕着我们吐出的烟雾，笼罩着窗外曼哈顿下城区的景色。
Because Morrison is read the world over, she is perceived to be a known quantity. She has an audience, she has awards. She is a black woman who writes about black people. Many people cling to her for this, but just as many think she has written herself into a literary ghetto. In 2008, the novelist Charles Johnson, author of “Middle Passage,” said, “I don’t want to say she’s beating a dead horse, but she probably feels more comfortable writing about that period as opposed to something more contemporary.” But he added, “I do think clearly that slavery-era stories and segregation-era stories are stories about the past.”
因为全世界都在读莫里森的书，她被认为是一个被世人所熟知的人物。她有读者群，获得过奖项。她是一位黑人女性，写的书也是关于黑人。许多人因为这点喜欢她，但是同样多的人却认为她把自己写进了一个文学隔离区。《中间道路》(Middle Passage)的作者，小说家查尔斯·约翰逊(Charles Johnson)在2008年说到：“我不想说她是在炒冷饭，但是她很可能觉得描写那个时代要比描写更当代的东西要得心应手一点。”他又补充到：“确实，我认为关于奴隶和种族隔离的故事很显然是关于过去的故事。”
Admittedly, the contemporary still scares her, Morrison told me, with a slight shudder. It is a pace that she doesn’t quite understand. That said, the criticism that she only writes about the distant past no longer flies. “Love” and “God Help the Child” are each set in the 20th century. The new book is a fable-like novel about a well-to-do beauty executive, Bride, who lives in a modern-day California. In it, Morrison asks the reader to consider what happens to children who can’t forget the torment of an excruciatingly painful childhood. Bride has to connect to others and see past the ways she has busied herself pointlessly with other people’s baggage in lieu of becoming something of her own making. Even though Bride has capitalized off her blackness and her beauty, to become complete, she has to go much deeper and lose all of the symbols and the trappings.
不可否认，当代让她感到害怕。莫里森这么告诉我的时候，不禁微微一颤。 她理解不了现代的节奏。话虽如此，说她只写遥远过去的批评不再能站住脚。《爱》(Love)和《上帝救助孩子》里的情节都发生在20世纪。最新的这部寓言式小说的主人公是布莱德，一位住在现代加州的富有的美容业高级管理人员。在这部小说里，莫里森让读者思考那些不能忘怀在极度痛苦的童年受到折磨的孩子们会遭遇到什么。布莱德不得不和他人建立真正的联系，并停止抱怨自己毫无意义地为他人的精神包袱所操劳而一无所成。 虽然布莱德利用自己的黑色皮肤和美貌得到好处，但要想身心俱全，她必须做出更多，她必须丢弃所有的象征和陷阱。
The novel is an expression of all the ways that Morrison remains skeptical of quick fixes and easy answers. “Having been eliminated from the lists of urgent national priorities, from TV documentaries and the platitudes of editorials, black people have chosen, or been forced to seek, safety from the white man’s promise,” she wrote in the 1976 Times essay. “In the shambles of closing admissions, falling quotas, widening salary gaps and merging black-studies departments, builders and healers are quietly working among us.” That piece was written long ago, but Morrison still seems to be fighting for higher stakes, whether she admits it or not. She sees that my generation is ready to push back again, but she knows well that slogans don’t create change; she has written often about the emptiness of superficial reform and has said that “the killing of young black men has never changed all that much, with or without hoodies.”
这部小说完全体现了莫里森对速效对策和简单答案的怀疑。在1976年发表在《纽约时报》的一篇文章中，她写到：“当在紧急的全国重大议题的列表、电视纪录片和陈腔滥调的报纸社论里再也找不到他们的身影后，黑人选择、或是被迫从白人的承诺里寻找安全感。在不断减少的黑人录取率、给黑人不断下降的配额、黑人白人之间不断扩大的工资差距和不断合并的黑人研究院系所导致的沮丧气氛下，建筑者和治疗者在我们中间默默地工作着。”莫里森的这篇文章写于很久之前，但是不管她承认与否，她似乎还是在为更高的目标做着努力。她看出我这一代已经为抗争做好了准备，但是她也很清楚口号并不能带来改变。她经常写到肤浅改革的徒劳，还说过“杀害年轻黑人男性在过去和现在没什么不同——不管这些受害者有没有穿着帽兜服。”
In 1993, when Morrison received the Nobel, she told a folk tale that she has since told often. It is the story of an old female writer who is accosted by an angry mob of young people. Doubting her wisdom, they demand that she tell them something relevant. They ask her to tell them how to cope with being marginalized, while “having no home in this place. To be set adrift from the one you knew, to live at the edge of towns that cannot bear your company.”
1993年莫里森接受诺贝尔奖时，她讲了一个民间故事，从那以后，这个故事她经常会讲起。故事说的是一个年长的女作家被一群愤怒的年轻人围住。他们质疑她的智慧，要求她回答跟他们息息相关的一些事情。他们要她回答怎么应对被边缘化，而他们“在这个地方没有家，背井离乡，住在并不想容纳他们的城市的边缘。”
Sitting in her apartment, I realized that every time we talked, I was just like one of those demanding young people. There was some part of me that wanted Morrison to play Moses and descend down the mountaintop and tell me what my generation should do next, how we might change these circumstances that we face. But for some reason Morrison would not to do this.
坐在她的公寓里，我意识到每次我们谈话时，我就像是这些着急要求答案的年轻人中的一员。我内心的一部分希望莫里森能扮演摩西的角色，从山顶上走下来，告诉我我们这一代下一步该怎么做，我们怎样才能改变我们面临的这些境遇。但是出于某种原因，莫里森不愿意这样做。
Which didn’t mean she wouldn’t speak her heart. She told me about the people she adores fiercely: her son, Harold Ford, and her granddaughters. And her sister, Lois, whose name she says like a prayer. (When I asked Morrison if she and Lois were close, I got an eye roll that was so sharp it chopped down the question and me. “My sister?” she finally said. “I need her.”) She told me about the unexpected thrills that can occur only late in one’s life, like changes in power that you never expected: Pope Francis, for example, or Michelle Obama. “Michelle,” she said with a smile that extended to places more important than just her face, “is one of the biggest brains in this country.”
这并不是说她没有对我敞开心扉。她跟我谈起她无比喜爱的亲人：她儿子哈罗德·福特(Harold Ford)和她的孙女们。还有她的妹妹露易丝，她说起她的名字就像是在说祷告词。（我问莫里森她是否和她妹妹关系亲密，她朝我转了转眼珠，目光是如此犀利，让我和我的问题完全无地自容。“我妹妹？”她最终说到：“我离不了她。”）她跟我谈起那些的意外的、只有到了晚年才能遇到的激动人心的事情，比如说她从没有预料到的权力变化：方济各教皇(Pope Francis)就是一例，还有米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)。“米歇尔可是这个国家最聪明的人之一，”她笑着说。她灿烂的笑容可是意味深长。
“You think?” I asked her, not doubting her assessment but merely wanting a bit more. “Oh, I know,” she smiled, refusing to reveal a thing.
“你当真这么想？”我这么问她并不是出于对她评语的怀疑，而只是想让她再多说一点。“哦，这是事实，”她笑了，并不愿告诉我更多。
She marveled at the ways of being that people have let go of, that mystify her. When she found out that I had never slept on ironed sheets, her mouth hit the floor. “Do you make your bed every morning?” Rarely, I said. “Well, how do you get in it?” she asked. “I don’t know, I just straighten the duvet and get sort of comfortable in the tangle and climb in.” She groaned. I told her that my mother said there was nothing in the world like ironed sheets. “Your mother is right,” she said. “There is nothing in the world like ironed sheets.” She remembered a trip down South, when her host put her sheets out to dry on the jasmine bush — or was it a frangipani tree — and then ironed them. “Oh,” she said, inhaling deeply as if the sheets were still in her hands, “it was a sleep like no other. I’ve never had anything like it since.”
她对人们已经放弃某些生活方式而感到不可思议。当我告诉她我从来没有睡过经过熨烫的床单，她吃惊得下巴都要碰到了地板。“你每天早上整理床铺吗？”几乎从不，我说。“那你是怎么上床睡觉的？”她问。“我也不知道，我就把被子大概理理，把乱七八糟的一堆弄得稍微舒服点，然后就爬进去呗。”我的回答让她呻吟起来。我告诉她我母亲说熨烫过的床单是世上无以伦比的好东西。“你妈妈说的没错，”她说：“熨烫过的床单确实是世上无以伦比的好东西。”她回忆起有一次南下旅游，她的主人把她的床单拿到外面的茉莉花树丛——要么就是一棵鸡蛋花树——上晾干，然后再把床单拿去熨烫。“啊，”她边说边深深地吸气，好像那床单就在她手中：“那一晚我睡的特别香甜。从那以后我就再没有睡过如此美妙的床单了。”
But when I asked her over and over what we could do to make sure our stories were not silenced, I didn’t get much. All she would tell me was that a good story is one that ends with what she called “the acquisition of knowledge.”
但是当我一遍又一遍问她我们能怎么做才能确保我们的故事不至被噤声，我并没有得到详细的解答。她所能告诉我的就是一个好故事总是以她所说的“得到知识”而收尾。
When I finally left Morrison’s apartment, she was about to get on the phone with Lois, to ask after her well being and her day in Lorain. Her sister had not been doing well, she was in the hospital, and I watched Morrison’s hands tremble as she took the call. Immediately I felt a deep shame. I had spent hours with Morrison, accosting her with questions, thinking about her, observing her, and yet for the first time I understood Morrison was a person with real human concerns. Suddenly I felt greedy and excused myself in a hurry. How silly of me to think that she should provide me with an answer to the old woman’s riddle, to not see all the ways Morrison has given of herself.
当我最终要离开莫里森的住所时，她正要给在洛雷恩的露易丝打电话，询问她的健康和她的一天。她妹妹身体一直欠佳，那时正在住院。我看到莫里森说电话时双手在颤抖。顿时我感到深深的羞愧。我跟莫里森相处了好几个小时，缠着她问问题，考量她，观察她，直到这时我才醒悟莫里森也是一个凡人，有着真切的烦恼担忧。我突然觉得自己很贪婪，匆忙告别。我是多么愚蠢，竟然认为莫里森应该给我那个老妇之谜的答案，而却没有看到她一直在做出奉献。
On my way out, she graciously said that I should call her if I had any more questions. And even though I later sent her clips of Kendrick Lamar through her assistant, because she got excited when I told her that his work reminded me of Joyce’s “Dubliners” but set in Compton, I never spoke to Morrison again.
在我出门时，莫里森谦和地告诉我，如果再有什么问题的话可以给她打电话。尽管这之后我通过她的助手把肯德里克·拉马尔(Kendrick Lamar)的歌曲片段发给了她，（当我告诉她我觉得他的作品让我想起了乔伊斯的《都柏林人》，只不过拉马尔的作品背景是加州坎普顿，莫里森表示很感兴趣。）我再也没有联系她。
From time to time though, I still think about her. Usually, what comes to mind during those moments is her last book, “Home.” In it, Morrison cemented the fact that her interest in history and looking back has hardly been a vain, nostalgic project. Instead, she mined what came before so it could be applied to the present, applied, perhaps, to the person who feels diminished or the readers who need to be reminded that they cannot easily turn their back on this country’s inherited history, and those who are not like them. “Who told you you was trash?” the old women of Lotus, Ga., asks the protagonist in “Home.” This is a question not just for her character but for anyone who has been listening to Morrison’s entire unforgettable liturgy: Who told you? And why did you believe?
我不时还是会想起她。在这种时刻，我一般都会想到她的上一部作品《家园》(Home)。在这本书里，莫里森巩固了一个事实，那就是她对历史和回顾过去的兴趣远不是出于自负或是怀旧。与之相反，她从历史中寻找先例，并将之运用于当下——也许是用于扶助那些感觉被矮化的人，或是用来提醒某些读者们，他们不能简单地背弃这个国家的历史或者是那些与他们不一样的人。在《家园》一书中，佐治亚州洛特斯的那位老妇向主人公发问道：“谁说你一钱不值？”这个问题不光是问给作品中的人物，更是问给所有那些一直关注莫里森非凡的文学生涯的人们：“谁说的？你为什么要相信他们？”