When Lisa Bayne married the first time, her friends baked a wedding cake topped with bride-and-groom cookies. This being 1976, in Berkeley, Calif., the cookie couple was nude, though the same could not be said of Ms. Bayne and her then-husband, who wore his-and-hers tunics that the bride had sewed by hand from vintage fabrics.
当丽萨·贝恩(Lisa Bayne)第一次结婚时，她的朋友们烤制了一个婚礼蛋糕，顶上装饰着新娘、新郎形状的曲奇。那是在1976年，加利福尼亚州的伯克利(Berkeley)，那对曲奇夫妇是裸体的。当然，贝恩和她当时的丈夫可没这么穿，他们穿着新娘用复古面料亲手缝制的束腰短上衣。
Today, Ms Bayne, 61, has two grown children and is the chief executive of Artful Home, an online art gallery based in Madison, Wisc. But her allergy to traditional weddings is more or less the same.
如今，贝恩61岁，有两个已成年的孩子，也是威斯康星州麦迪逊市(Madison)在线艺术画廊“艺术家居”(Artful Home)的执行总裁。但是她对于传统婚礼的敏感，多多少少还是一样的。
For her marriage to Andy Astor, 57, in October, she created banners and flags from handmade paper to mark the site of their ceremony on a windy mountain road in Sonoma, Calif. Her bouquet combined dahlias and calla lilies with herbs plucked from her garden. After taking lessons from an artisanal preserves maker in Berkeley, the couple produced several varieties of jam, which they distributed to their 46 guests. Mr. Astor, the managing director of a technology services company and a novice glass blower, planned to contribute glassware for the occasion, but managed to complete only 20 pieces by the time it rolled around. Instead, the couple assembled a motley thrift-store collection.
10月里，她将成为57岁的安迪·阿斯特(Andy Astor)的新娘，为此，她用纸手工制作了许多横幅和旗帜，来标明他们位于加州索诺玛县(Sonoma)一条多风山路上的典礼位置。她的花束，是用大丽菊、马蹄莲和来自她家花园里的香草组成的。从伯克利一位手工果酱制作师那里上课归来，夫妇俩制作了好几种果酱，打算分赠给他们的46位来宾。阿斯特是一家技术服务公司的总经理，也粗通玻璃吹制技法。他本打算贡献盛放果酱的容器，但是直到婚礼临近，才做完了20个。不够的部分，夫妇俩打算用购自二手商店的“杂牌军”替代。
“We wanted the wedding to feel like the life we live in Northern California,” Ms. Bayne said, speaking on the phone recently from her home in San Francisco. Still, she added, “I don’t think it was the ultimate D.I.Y. wedding.”
“我们希望婚礼的感觉，正如我们在北加州的生活一样，”最近，贝恩在她位于旧金山的家中通过电话这样说。然而她补充道，“我不认为这是一个完全DIY（do it yourself，自己动手做——译注）的婚礼。”
I was curious to find out just what that creature may be. In few areas has the do-it-yourself fever raged as intensely as in the $52 billion wedding industry. D.I.Y. flourishes on blogs like Practical Wedding and Offbeat Bride, and is a dutiful component of mainstream magazines like Brides and The Knot. A tour of Pinterest or Etsy will turn up almost every hand-wrought artifact you can possibly imagine that is eaten, worn, tied around a napkin, suspended from a rafter or carried off by guests in a little bag.
我很好奇，想弄清“DIY婚礼”到底是怎样的。很少有行业像婚庆业一样，“自己动手做”热潮的产值高达520亿美元（约合人民币3242亿元）。在诸如Practical Wedding和Offbeat Bride之类的博客上，DIY内容火得一塌糊涂；它同时也是如《新娘》(Brides)和《爱结》(The Knot)这些主流杂志的固定栏目。在品趣志(Pinterest)或者Etsy（一家手工艺品销售网站——译注）逛上一圈，你基本就能买到你所能想象到的所有手工制品——吃的、穿的、束餐巾的，挂在椽子上的，或是可以让客人们装在小包里拿走的东西。
Of course, fluffy-white, off-the-shelf weddings remain an option, but the tools for tailoring an event to fit the contours of your idiosyncratic being are as abundant as the inspirations.
当然，蓬松洁白、现成可选的婚礼仍是一种选择，但事实上，可以用来为自己量身打造一场婚礼的各种工具和灵感，是非常丰富的。
“You can have ribbons customized in a hundred different colors,” said Darcy Miller, editorial director of Martha Stewart Weddings. “You can have flags put on straws. There are tissue-paper pompom kits.”
“你可以把丝带弄成无数种颜色，”《玛莎婚纱》(Martha Stewart Wedding)杂志的编辑主任达西·米勒(Darcy Miller)如是说，“你可以把小旗子插在麦秆上，还有用薄纱纸打结做成小绒球。”
Ms. Miller, who has worked at the magazine since its first issue in 1995, was just warming up.
米勒自1995年来一直在这家杂志工作，最近开始热衷DIY。
“Today, I think D.I.Y. is infused in all weddings,” she said. “We like to think of it more as ‘design it yourself’ than ‘do it yourself.’ It’s very much about putting your personal stamp on it and making it your own.” (Which doesn’t mean D.I.Y. is economical, Ms. Miller warned. Though it may seem as if it offers a budgetary advantage, that’s only until you calculate the time that goes into your efforts and the cost of replacing materials when projects are bungled.)
“现在，我认为DIY在每一场婚礼中都无所不在，”她说，“我们认为‘自己设计’比‘自己动手做’所占的分量更大。就是把所有东西都打上你个人的印记，自己来做。”（这并不意味着DIY就是经济节约的，米勒提醒到。尽管从表面上看，DIY的预算颇有优势，但如果把你投入的时间和项目搞砸时更换材料的花费都算进去，可就不一定了。）
So how do brides and grooms cope with such a profusion of ways to be special?
那么新娘和新郎该如何面对那铺天盖地的、可以令自己婚礼与众不同的方法呢？
The first thing to recognize is that there really is no such thing as a D.I.Y. wedding. Only people with Leonardo-like skill sets and an aversion to sleep are capable of personally customizing every detail. Even the craftiest among us need assistance.
首先要认识到，并没有一个所谓的自己动手做的婚礼真正存在。只有达芬奇那样的天才或是可以不睡觉的人，才有能力搞定一切细节。就算我们中间最能干的人也需要帮助。
For example, when Jessica Hische, 30, a graphic designer and lettering artist, and Russ Maschmeyer, 31, a product designer for Facebook, planned their wedding last summer, they asked 15 of their artist friends to create artworks as gifts. These were assembled into an online narrative about the couple’s courtship that also served as an invitation.
30岁的杰西卡·赫斯哲(Jessica Hische)是一位平面设计师和字体艺术家，31岁的罗斯·马施梅尔(Russ Maschmeyer)在Facebook做产品设计师。去年夏天，当他俩为他们自己的婚礼做计划时，请了15位艺术家朋友，来帮忙设计、制作给来宾的回礼。一切的一切，你都可以在online narrative里看到——这对夫妇的恋爱故事，还被当做了一份婚礼邀请函。
Guests were given a password to the document that allowed them to access details about the occasion, while everyone else was free to enjoy the sweetly self-ironic story of love in hipster Brooklyn. Even Gawker, which savaged the piece — driven to particular outrage by its revelation that Mr. Maschmeyer once took up bread baking while in recovery from a bad relationship — issued a rare apology after the couple’s many friends and admirers protested.
客人们会得到一个密码，用密码打开文件后，就能获取关于典礼的一切细节；与此同时，每个登陆网站的人都能随意观看两人在嬉皮的布鲁克林，甜蜜地自我讽刺的爱情故事。而Gawker网（一个著名的八卦博客——译注）甚至罕见地发布了一封道歉信，因其一篇文章揭出马施梅尔在从一段失败恋情中恢复时，曾投身面包烘焙的往事，激起了众怒，遭到这对新人众多好友和粉丝的抗议。
The document was letterpress printed and distributed to wedding guests as a keepsake. That decision, Ms. Hische said, proved to be the most expensive in a celebration that began with a civil ceremony at the San Francisco City Hall, culminated nine days later in a dance party for 300 at the Green Building in the Gowanus neighborhood of Brooklyn, and involved two picnics on two coasts, each with custom illustrated cornhole boards used for beanbag-tossing games.
文本用凸版印刷机印出来，送到各位来宾手中，作为一个纪念品。赫斯哲说，事后证明，这个决定是整个庆典中最昂贵的。庆典从旧金山市政厅的一个简单仪式开始，九天后，在布鲁克林瓦纳斯(Gowanus)社区的格林大厦(Green Building)中举办的300人舞会上达到高潮，期间包括在两个海滩上分别举办的两次野餐会，每次都用手绘图案的沙包玩掷沙包游戏。
To economize, the couple offered to barter services or give promotional support to vendors, including Sugar and Fluff, event planners that hung tinsel-y decorations from the Green Building’s ceiling and created what looked like a giant colorblind test with the couple’s initials, as a backdrop for the photo booth. “I think the entire cost was $35,000,” Ms. Hische said from her current home in San Francisco.
经济起见，夫妇俩提供了以物易物的服务，或为供应商的宣传给予支持，其中包括一家活动策划公司Sugar and Fluff——他们把金箔制的Y型装饰物从格林大厦的天花板上垂吊下来，作为快照亭的背景墙，看上去就像一个以夫妇俩名字首字母组成的色盲测试题。“我估计整个花费是3.5美元（约合人民币21.8万元），”赫斯哲在她目前位于旧金山的家中说。
“The only way you can do a D.I.Y. wedding entirely,” she added, “is if it’s your job for a year.”
“你能打造一个完全的DIY婚礼的唯一方法，”她补充道：“就是把它作为自己一整年的工作。”
“There’s only so much work two persons can do,” echoed Simon Davenport, 29, a senior copywriter at Macy’s and a musician who is marrying on May 17 in a barn at Stonover Farm in Lenox, Mass. “If you’re committed to doing it yourself, sometimes it’s as important to have good people around you as to say, ‘I want this color or that color.' ”
“两个人要做的事简直太多了，”29岁的西蒙·达文波特(Simon Davenport)如此回应。他是梅西百货(Macy’s)的一位高级文案撰稿人，也是一位音乐人。他将于5月17日在马萨诸塞州雷诺克斯(Lenox)一家名为Stonover Farm的农场，在一座谷仓里举办婚礼。“如果你想要亲力亲为，那么和说‘我想要这种颜色或那种颜色’同样重要的是，你身边得有好帮手。”
Mr. Davenport is fortunate to be marrying into the family of Lily Thorne, 28, an artist who is also the merchandise manager at Bird, a Brooklyn boutique. Various members of her Berkshires clan and their friends are putting up guests, catering the dinner, baking the cake and carving chunks of solid walnut into table numbers with a band saw (that last would be Ms. Thorne’s father, Peter, a woodworker).
达文波特很幸运，他将要迎娶的28岁新娘莉莉·索恩(Lily Thorne)是一位艺术家，也是布鲁克林一家名为Bird的时装精品店的采购经理。新娘那边庞大的伯克郡(Berkshires)亲友团和他们的朋友们，一起帮忙照顾来宾、张罗晚宴、烤蛋糕、用一把带锯把坚硬的胡桃木段雕成桌号标志（最后一项工作应该是由索恩的木匠父亲彼得[Peter]完成的）。
Last weekend, the couple, who live in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, were in the area, foraging for moss, fiddleheads and ramps in a friend’s woods, and pulling chunks of marble from a stream.
上周末，这对住在布鲁克林绿点区(Greenpoint)的夫妇，在一座朋友家的树林里搜寻苔藓、蕨类植物幼苗和北美野韭，还从一条小溪边拉回大块的大理石。
The moss and ferns will be incorporated into centerpieces by Ms. Thorne and her mother, Sarah. The ramps will be mixed with wild morels in tartlets, wilted into salads, and served with locally caught striped bass. And the marble will be set on rough-hewed plinths along the tables, along with other stones the couple received from guests at their shower at the suggestion of Ms. Thorne’s parents.
苔藓和蕨类植物将由索恩和她的妈妈萨拉(Sarah)做成桌花。北美野韭会和羊肚菌拌在一起做成馅饼，或者焯水后加入沙拉中，作为当地打捞的条纹鲈鱼的配菜。在索恩父母的建议下，夫妇俩举办了一场送礼会，收到不少客人送的各色石头。这些石头将同他们捡来的大理石一起堆放在粗粗切割过的底座上，沿桌摆放。
And flowers? Because of the late spring, lilacs are not expected to be in bloom in western Massachusetts as hoped, but forsythia will still be abundant. The couple are also sourcing from a local flower farm, “for that pop of color,” Ms. Thorne said. “I think we’ll probably go with hellebore.”
那么鲜花呢？因为时值晚春，马萨诸塞州西部的紫丁香不如预期的那样繁盛，但是迎春花开得正好。夫妇俩还找到一家本地花农。“为了突出那点亮色，”索恩说，“我想我们或许还会拿一捧鹿食草。”
Such uncertainty less than two weeks before one’s wedding might leave other brides wailing in the attic like the first Mrs. Rochester, but this couple said they found it comforting to let nature take some of the decision-making off their hands. “It’s another part of D.I.Y.,” the groom said. “Not only are you involving the community around you, but also the environment around you. You’re beholden to your surroundings.” (It is also economical, they said: the entire affair, to which they have invited 160 guests, will cost about $20,000.)
诸如此类在婚礼前两周还不能确定的事，或许会令其他一些新娘窝在阁楼里伤心哭泣，例如第一位罗切斯特夫人；但是这对夫妇表示，他们觉得让大自然帮他们做出一些决定也挺好。“这也是DIY的一部分，”新郎说，“你不仅融入了所处的社区，更是融入了周边的环境。你应该感激你周围的一切。”（而且这样也很经济，他们说，他们邀请了160位客人参加整个仪式，大约会花费2万美元[约合人民币12.4万元]。）
Similarly, when Lauren Ireland, 33, and Ian Furst, 32, married last October at the Black Mountain Wine House in Gowanus, they went to a farmers’ market that morning and bought the best-looking flowers they could find, which friends and family members arranged in bottles. Ms. Ireland, a poet who lives in Seattle, wore a tie-dyed dress by Lindsey Thornburg, turning it backward so that the plunging neckline didn’t interfere with her dancing.
类似地，33岁的劳伦·艾兰德(Lauren Ireland)和32岁的伊恩·弗斯特(Ian Furst)去年10月在瓦纳斯(Gowanus)的黑山酒屋(Black Mountain Wine House)举办了婚礼。他们当天清晨去赶集，买到了市场上能找到的最漂亮的花儿。亲友们把花布置在瓶子里。艾兰德是一位居住在西雅图的诗人，身着Lindsey Thornburg牌的扎染裙子，不时往后撩一撩裙子，这样深开的领口才不会影响她翩翩起舞。
“I felt like there’s such a movement to homogeneous wedding styles with Pinterest and Etsy, which are wonderful tools but do seem to make things seem very similar,” she said. (In fact, a few of the couples interviewed for this article said they were determined to avoid D.I.Y. clichés like weed-filled Ball jars and picturesque hay bales.) Her wedding, she added, represented “not an effort to be unique, but an effort to be us.”
“我感觉在品趣志和Etsy上有那么一股婚礼风格同质化的风潮，网站上是有许多很棒的工具，但的确令婚礼看起来都很相似，”她说。（事实上，一些接受本文采访的夫妇表示，他们一定要避免DIY婚礼的俗套，例如填草的球型瓶和别致的干草堆。）她还补充道，她的婚礼代表了“不是努力打造独一无二，而是努力打造自己的风格。”
The most crafted element, Ms. Ireland said, were pompoms she made in shades of bronze, copper and peach yarn and strung on twine to add texture to the space. “I did spend a lot of time on them,” she said. But she had allotted herself just enough D.I.Y. to calm her nerves rather than frazzle them when the pressures of organizing the party began to take their toll.
艾兰德说，最具手工质感的元素，要数她用深红色、紫铜色和桃红色的绒线做出的小绒球，它们被扎在麻绳上面，以增加空间质感。“我的确在这上面花了大量时间，”她说。但是，她为自己留出一定时间来做DIY，是为了让紧张的情绪得到舒缓，这样当组织聚会的压力到来时，不至于把自己累垮。
Because the second crucial point about D.I.Y. and your wedding is that if you lack Zen-like forbearance, you’ll need militarylike planning skills.
关于DIY以及你的婚礼，第二关键的要素是，如果你缺乏一颗淡定的禅心，那就必须拥有作战部队般的策划能力。
“The one thing you have to stress is that D.I.Y. is not for the last-minute person,” said Vané Broussard, the founder of the seven-year-old website Brooklyn Bride. “If you’re the person who likes to stay up late and pull all-nighters, you should not do this.”
“你必须强调的一点是，DIY不适合那些不到最后一刻不出手的人，”维恩·布鲁萨德(Vané Broussard)说。布鲁萨德是一家创办了七年、名为Brooklyn Bride网站的创始人。“如果你是那种喜欢熬夜通宵加班的人，就别这么做。”
Ms. Broussard, 33, was able to hand-make a good portion of her own wedding because of a generous timeline. Engaged in September 2006, she had all of her vendors lined up by December, but didn’t marry until April 2008. This stretch allowed her to sew fabric covers for 60 centerpieces, screen-print guest-book cards, design lapel buttons as favors, create a ring pillow that wasn’t fat, pink and ruffled, and make a cake topper that had a bride outfitted in a wedding dress fashioned from a scrap of material from her own gown and a groom wearing a velvet-ribbon tuxedo.
33岁的布鲁萨德一手操办了自己婚礼中的大部分手工，因为她的时间安排足够充裕。她在2006年9月订婚，当年12月就和所有的婚庆公司接上了头，但直到2008年4月，他们才办婚礼。在这期间，她亲自缝制了60块桌子中间的装饰布、印制了嘉宾留言簿卡片、设计了领扣作为回礼，还做了一个不臃肿、不是粉色也没有皱褶的戒枕，并做了一个婚礼蛋糕。蛋糕顶部装饰着新娘和新郞，新娘所着婚纱就是用她自己礼服的一小块布料制成的，而新郎则身着缎面燕尾服。
And she still found time for her day job as an interior designer in the office of Ghislaine Viñas in New York.
她在准备这一切的同时，白天还作为室内设计师，在位于纽约的Ghislaine Viñas办公室工作。
For creative couples lacking Ms. Broussard’s organizational abilities, there is a new breed of specialist, the wedding stylist.
对于充满创意、但缺乏布鲁萨德这种组织能力的夫妇，有一种新出现的专家能帮到他们，那就是婚礼风格师。
Michelle Edgemont in Brooklyn, for example, helps couples realize their Pinterest-fueled dreams by creating inspiration boards and working on the design of an occasion from the color palette up. But a year ago she started a service tailored to creative couples who have taken charge of planning, yet need someone to put on the finishing touches.
例如，布鲁克林的米歇尔·埃奇蒙特(Michelle Edgemont)为新人们创建了灵感板，并从五花八门的点子中琢磨婚礼仪式的设计，以此帮助新人们实现他们被品趣会激发出的婚礼梦想。但在一年前，她推出了一项新业务，专门面向那些有创意的、愿意自己负责策划工作的新人们。他们只需要有人帮忙完成最后的润色工作。
“They’ll make all of these awesome decorations, but don’t have anyone to set them up except aunts or cousins,” she said. “Maybe they rented awesome vintage furniture and need it arranged exactly as they envisioned it.”
“他们会自己做好所有这些很棒的装饰，但除了家里的姑姑阿姨或表兄弟姐妹，其他人最好别插手，”她说，“或许他们租来一些很棒的古董家具，需要完全按照他们想要的样子来摆放。”
For $2,000, Ms. Edgemont will do those things as well as coordinate with vendors like lighting and photo-booth companies. Then she’ll pack up everything at the end.
只需支付埃奇蒙特2000美元（约合人民币1.24万元），她就会做这些事情，还会和灯光师、婚礼摄影公司等其他婚庆供应商协作。到最后，她还会把一切打包整理好。