When the authorities in Thailand recently intercepted huge stashes of ivory stuffed inside shipments of beans and tea leaves, the seizures were described as groundbreaking international police work.
泰国政府近期在运输豆子和茶叶的货船中查获了大量象牙，这一行动被称为突破性的国际警察合作。
Europol, the international police agency, said the sting operation that led to them was “the biggest ever coordinated international law enforcement operation targeting the illegal trade in endangered species.”
国际警察机构欧洲刑警组织(Europol)称这次诱捕行动是“针对濒危物种非法贸易进行的有史以来最大的一次国际联合执法。”
But there was a major omission in the operation, which took place over the past four months and uncovered more than 1,300 elephant tusks: There was no cooperation with and no arrests in the country to which the ivory was being shipped, Laos, a thinly populated Southeast Asian nation that shares a border with Thailand and in recent years has become a major transit point for a variety of exotic and endangered animals.
然而，这次历时四个月、查获超过1300根象牙的行动中有一个主要疏漏：没有同这批象牙的运输目的地老挝合作，也没有在老挝逮捕任何人。老挝是个人口稀少的东南亚国家，与泰国相邻，在近几年成为了多种珍稀、濒危动物的走私枢纽。
Many countries across the world have enhanced their campaigns against wildlife trafficking syndicates that are draining Asia’s jungles and the African savanna of elephants, rhinoceroses and other animals, many of them considered choice foods in parts of Asia. But Laos, which is run by a secretive and authoritarian communist government, stands out as a bastion of impunity, say those involved in the crackdown.
参与行动的人说，许多国家都展开了针对走私野生动物团伙的打击行动。走私团伙导致亚洲丛林和非洲大草原上的大象、犀牛等动物日渐稀少，这些动物中有许多还在亚洲一些地方还被当做食物。然而在老挝这个由行事隐秘而独裁的共产党统治的国家，却一直是走私团伙逍遥法外的地方。
Criminal gangs take advantage of the weak rule of law in Laos, said Steven Galster, the executive director of Freeland, a countertrafficking organization based in Bangkok that works with law enforcement agencies to track down animal smuggling networks around the world.
总部在曼谷、同其他执法机构合作在全球打击动物走私网络的反野生动物贩卖组织自由天地(Freeland)执行主管史蒂文·加勒斯特(Steven Galster)说，这些犯罪团伙利用了老挝法治薄弱的现实。
“It’s pretty clear that Vietnamese and Chinese crooks are using Laos as their preferred staging and transit ground these days,” he said.
“很明显，现在越南和中国的罪犯将老挝当做是他们首选的集散和中转枢纽，”他说。
Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California and the chairman of the House Foreign Relations Committee, has recently sponsored legislation intended to help African nations fight trafficking and to scrutinize the cooperation of governments in antitrafficking efforts.
众议院外交事务委员会(House Foreign Affairs Committee)主席、加利福尼亚州共和党议员埃德·罗伊斯(Ed Royce)近期支持了一个旨在帮助非洲国家打击走私，并审查各国政府的打击走私合作的提案。
“Laos hasn’t recorded a single illicit wildlife seizure since officials started keeping records in 1989, making it a smuggler’s paradise,” he said in an email.
“从1989年开始记录以来，老挝从未记录任何一起查获非法野生动物的案件，这使得老挝成为了走私者的天堂，”他在邮件中说道。
“The Laos government cites its lack of resources as an excuse,” he said, “but it’s quite clear that officials are profiting from wildlife trafficking.”
“老挝政府以缺乏资源为借口，”他说，“但是很明显，政府官员从野生动物走私中获利。”
Phonesavanh Sophakhamphanh, deputy director of the wildlife inspection division under the Laos Department of Forest Inspection, denied that Laotian officials are profiting from trafficking and maintained that his country is an unwitting transit destination.
老挝森林检查局(Laos Department of Forest Inspection)下属的野生动物检查分局副局长蓬绍瓦·斯帕坎潘(Phonesavanh Sokhamphanh)否认了政府官员从中获利一说，并坚称老挝对于称为走私枢纽是毫不知情的。
“Laos is not the country killing the animals,” Mr. Phonesavanh said. “They are killed in African countries.”
“猎杀这些动物的国家不是老挝，” 蓬绍瓦说。“这些动物是在非洲国家被猎杀的。”
“We are ready to coordinate with all sides,” he said. “If the U.S. government or international community has good information, please pass it along. We are ready to tackle the issue.”
“我们愿意同各方合作，”他说，“如果美国政府或者国际社会有线索，请提供给我们。我们已经准备好处理这些事。”
But law enforcement officials in neighboring countries and antitrafficking groups say that very specific information has been handed over to Laos on several occasions and that nothing has been done with it.
但是邻国的执法机构和反走私组织说，过去曾数次给老挝提供了有效情报，然而老挝并未采取任何行动。
One of the world’s most prominent traffickers, American officials say, is a Laotian businessman, Vixay Keosavang. He had so little fear of being caught that he had rhino horns shipped directly to him, according to documents submitted at a trial in South Africa of one of his associates, who is now serving 40 years in prison there. Similarly, a shipment of about 600 pounds of elephant tusks intercepted in 2009 by the Kenyan wildlife authorities was being sent to Mr. Vixay’s company in Laos.
美国官员称，全球最知名的走私犯之一维塞·乔萨旺(Vixay Keosavang)就是一名老挝商人。根据他的一名同伙在南非受审时的法庭文件，他完全不怕被逮住，以至于会让人把犀牛角直接运送给他。该同伙目前正在监狱40年徒刑。同样，2009年肯尼亚野生动物保护机构曾截获重达600磅（约合270公斤）的象牙，原本就是要运送到维塞位于老挝的公司。
In 2013, the United States offered a reward of $1 million for anyone who helped dismantle Mr. Vixay’s wildlife trafficking network.
2013年，美国悬赏100万美元（约合620元人民币），希望有人能协助摧毁维赛的野生动物走私网络。
He remains a free man.
事到如今，他仍然逍遥法外。
Vatanarak Suranartyuth, the director of Asean Wildlife Enforcement Network — an effort by Southeast Asian governments to crack down on wildlife crime — said coordination has greatly improved among countries like Vietnam and Cambodia. But dealing with Laos, he said, is laborious and involves obtaining permission from senior officials for the most basic of inquiries.
东盟野生动物执法网络(Asean Wildlife Enforcement Network)的主管瓦达那拉·素拉那杜(Vatanarak Suranartyuth)表示，在越南和柬埔寨等国之间，合作方面有了巨大的改善。不过他说，与老挝打交道则费时费力，就连最基本的问询都需要从高级官员那里获得许可。他所在的组织由东南亚国家的政府联合成立，目的是打击野生动物方面的犯罪。
Yet in a region where officials are often reluctant to directly criticize their neighbors, Mr. Vatanarak was diplomatic in his criticism.
该地区的官员往往不愿直接批评邻国，瓦达那拉在提出批评意见时采用了外交辞令。
“We would like Laos to be more active in tackling the issue of environmental protection,” he said.
“我们希望老挝更积极地应对环境保护问题，”他说。
Of the three Laos-bound shipments intercepted recently by the Thai authorities, a seizure on April 18 was the largest: More than 700 tusks were found in a container of beans from the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Thai authorities estimated the cache had a value of $6 million.
在泰国当局近期截获的以老挝为目的地的三批货物中，4月18日收缴的那一批规模最大：在一个来自刚果民主共和国的豆类集装箱里，发现了逾700根象牙。泰国当局估计，这批货物价值600万美元。
The Thai authorities had been tipped off about the shipment by foreign intelligence sources as part of Cobra III, a joint law enforcement operation targeting the illegal trade in endangered species.
泰国当局从外国情报源那里收到了有关这批货的风声。这种情报合作是针对珍稀物种非法交易的联合执法行动“眼镜蛇三号”(Cobra III)的组成部分。
The contents of the shipment raised red flags, said Chamroen Photiyod, the deputy director general of Thailand’s customs authority.
泰国海关部门的副主管参勒·朴迪育(Chamroen Photiyod)表示，是这批货的内容让他们警觉起来。
“This cargo was particularly suspicious because it was declared as beans,” Mr. Chamroen said. “From what we know, Laos has plenty of beans. We didn’t understand why they would have to import beans from Congo. It sounded unlikely.”
“这一批货物特别可疑，因为通报的是豆类，”参勒说。“我们了解的情况是，老挝豆类丰富，不明白他们为什么非得从刚果进口豆子。听起来就不大可能。”
X-rays showed what appeared to be many tusks among the beans.
X射线显示，豆子中间似乎隐藏着许多象牙。
Thailand had previously been unable to open shipments transiting through the country without a warrant and permission from the destination country, Mr. Chamroen said. This allowed many suspicious packages to slip through, he said. But a law passed on March 4 by Thailand’s military government gave officials greater scope.
参勒表示，以前，泰国对途经该国的货物是不能开封的，除非从目的地国家获得搜查令和授权。按照他的说法，这让不少的可疑货品得以溜走。不过，泰国军政府今年3月4日通过的一部法律让本国官员有了更大的施展空间。
Thailand’s customs department contacted the Laotian Embassy out of “diplomatic etiquette,” Mr. Chamroen said. But the embassy was adamant that the packages be shipped to Laos without delay.
参勒称，泰国海关部门出于“外交礼仪”联络了老挝大使馆。可是，大使馆坚决要求这批货物立即运往老挝。
“They were really upset with us,” Mr. Chamroen said. “They did not want to give us permission to open it.”
“他们对我们相当不满，”参勒说。“根本不想授权让我们开箱。”
Thai officials ignored their pleas and opened the packages anyway, discovering nearly 9,000 pounds of elephant tusks.
泰国官员没有理会老挝的请求，自行开封，结果发现了近9000磅的象牙。
When Laotian officials were confronted with the discovery, they said they would investigate.
面对这样的发现，老挝官员表示将予以调查。
The repressive government of Laos keeps close tabs on its citizens through domestic intelligence agencies like the Ministry of Public Security. But the investigation into the ivory seizures has gone nowhere.
老挝的专制政府运用公共安全部等国内情报机构对民众实施密切监控。然而，针对缴获的象牙的调查却不了了之。