NEW DELHI — During the months leading up to the spring parliamentary elections, Indians looked at Narendra Modi and saw what they wanted to see.
新德里——今春议会选举前的那几个月里，印度人的目光投向了纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)，在他身上找到了自己希望看到的东西。
Right-wing Hindus saw a cultural warrior. Working-class voters saw an incorruptible outsider who would impose discipline, from the “Delhi durbar,” the elite cliques dating to the Mughal courts, down to police constables. Industrialists counted on having an advocate at the top. And public intellectuals in New Delhi, among them centrists who had abandoned the Indian National Congress party, saw an economic reformer who would use his enormous mandate to introduce bold, potentially unpopular policies that would reawaken growth.
右翼印度教徒看到了一名文化斗士。工薪阶层选民看到了一个廉洁的局外人，将会推行法纪，上至“德里杜尔巴”——可以追溯到莫卧儿王朝的上层社会——下至警员。实业家们指望着最高层出现一名他们的代言人。新德里的公共知识分子则看到了一名经济改革人士，将会利用其获得的强大授权来推行那些可能不受欢迎但将重启增长的大胆政策。这些知识分子中，包括抛弃了印度国大党(Indian National Congress)的中间派。
Someone was bound to be disappointed.
肯定会有人要失望。
By the summer, around 70 days after Mr. Modi’s swearing-in, the first chorus of disappointment emerged from advocates of radical change, including some who served as economic advisers during his campaign.
到了夏天，莫迪就职大约70天后，倡导激进变革的人士首先发出了一片失望之声，其中还有曾在他竞选期间担任经济顾问的一些人。
What they had expected was not happening. Mr. Modi’s government introduced its first budget on July 10, to the kind of breathless television coverage typically reserved for royal weddings or moon landings. But it was absent any move that could be described as bold, like lifting caps on foreign direct investment; rolling back the previous government’s subsidy programs; or repealing taxes levied on transactions after the fact, which have long driven away potential investors.
他们的期望落了空。7月10日，莫迪内阁推出了第一份财政预算，相关电视报道的热闹程度，不亚于皇室婚礼或登陆月球。然而，这份预算中找不到任何堪称大胆的举措，比如解除外商直接投资的种种限制、削减上届政府的补贴计划，亦或废除一直以来让潜在投资者望而却步的事后征收的交易税。
Much of the budget suggested that Mr. Modi had decided to adjust, rather than dispose of, the economic policies of the previous government led by the Indian National Congress party — a surprise to those who had listened to his bellowing attacks on the campaign trail. He has made few changes to the top echelon of the bureaucracy appointed by Congress, most notably extending the tenure of the highest-ranking civil servant, the cabinet secretary, Ajit Seth, who had been scheduled to retire in June.
预算案中的许多内容表明，莫迪决定对国大党领导的前政府实施的经济政策予以调整，而非全盘推翻。对于听过他在竞选期间措辞严厉的抨击言论的那些人而言，此举颇为意外。他基本没有变动国大党任命的顶层官僚，最引人注目的是，还延长了职位最高的公务员的任期，使得原定于今年6月卸职的内阁秘书长阿吉特·赛斯(Ajit Seth)得以留任。
“Here is a government that came in with a lot of hope, riding a tide of high expectations, promising change,” Bibek Debroy, an economist who advised Mr. Modi during the campaign, wrote in a column in India Today. “Ennui has already set in.”
“这届政府上台的时候带来了诸多希望，承载了巨大的期待，承诺变革，”曾在竞选期间为莫迪提供建议的经济学家比贝克·德布罗伊(Bibek Debroy)在《今日印度》(India Today)上的专栏文章中写道。“现在，倦怠已经来到。”
Pratap Bhanu Mehta, the president of the Center for Policy Research, wrote in The Indian Express that Mr. Modi’s government had frittered away its honeymoon period on “an odd combination of trifles, bureaucratic cross hairs, alibis, risk averseness and a shadowy politics of stealth.”
政策研究中心(Center for Policy Research)的主任普拉塔普·巴努·梅赫塔(Pratap Bhanu Mehta)则在《印度快报》(The Indian Express)上发表文章称，莫迪内阁把蜜月期浪费在了“琐事、官僚主义目标、托辞、缩手缩脚和政治暗箱操作这些烂七八糟的事情上。”
The government risks losing its credibility, Mr. Mehta said, “if the prime minister does not come out swinging soon, in a way that can become an exemplar.”
梅赫塔表示，“倘若总理不能很快出来，精准地扭转局势，”政府将面临丧失信用的危险。
Mr. Modi is proving to be a quiet leader. He does not attend the late-night, whiskey-fueled gatherings that drive social life among the New Delhi elite, instead maintaining the monastic schedule he kept as the chief minister of the state of Gujarat. His most confident steps have come in the realm of foreign policy, where he has used his rhetorical gifts as hypnotically as he did in his campaign. At home, his trademark oratory — ubiquitous for months before the election — is rarely heard.
莫迪如今被证明是名低调的领导人。他不会出席新德里上层社交生活中必不可少的深夜威士忌聚会，而是保持了在古吉拉特邦任首席部长期间的那种简朴生活。他最为自信的表现出现在外交领域，发挥了在竞选期间展现的那种高超的语言魅力。但在国内，选举前那些个月里随时可以听到的他的标志性豪言壮语却鲜有出现。
Instead, the prime minister is said to be spending many hours in conference with senior bureaucrats, trying to identify bottlenecks and regulatory obstacles that have kept infrastructure projects in limbo for years. This is consistent with what he did when he took control of Gujarat. For the first two or three years, as he worked intensively within the bureaucracy, he “disappeared off the front pages,” said Ashok Malik, a prominent columnist who supported Mr. Modi’s campaign.
据说，莫迪花了大把时间与高级官僚会谈，试图找出让基础设施项目卡壳多年的瓶颈和监管障碍。这与他执掌古吉拉特邦期间的做法一致。支持莫迪竞选的著名专栏作家阿肖克·马利克(Ashok Malik)称，在头两三年里，他与官僚体系密切合作，“从头版上消失了。”
One argument for patience is that, despite winning a majority in the lower house of Parliament, Mr. Modi has not yet consolidated enough power to impose coherent economic policies. His Bharatiya Janata Party still hopes to take control of a series of important states in the coming months, which is necessary to make gains in Parliament’s upper house. So it might be safer to introduce significant changes in 2015, during a stretch of time between major elections.
一种呼吁耐心的论调认为，尽管赢得了议会下院的多数席位，但莫迪尚未巩固权力，不足以推行连贯一致的经济政策。他所在的人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)仍然希望在接下来几个月的选举中掌控一些重要的邦政府，从而为其在议会上院中增加席位铺平道路。因此，更安全的做法是，在处于大型选举间隙期的2015年再推出重大变革。
Mr. Modi, with his knack for showmanship, may also be waiting for the right moment to make his presence felt. This week, crews have been preparing the grounds of the Red Fort in Old Delhi, once the residence of Mughal emperors, for Mr. Modi’s first Independence Day speech, on Friday. The sandstone palace was where, 67 years ago, Jawaharlal Nehru informed a new nation of its “tryst with destiny.”
擅长作秀的莫迪，或许也在等待恰当的时机来展示自己的力量。本周，工作人员在莫卧儿王朝的皇宫德里红堡进行筹备工作，等待莫迪在周五进行其首次独立日演讲。67年前，正是在这座砂岩宫殿里，贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁(Jawaharlal Nehru)宣布这个新生的国家“与命运有约”。
But this early wave of disenchantment is a reminder that the man India elected this year is, in some ways, a cipher.
不过，这股一早到来的失望情绪提醒人们，印度今年选出的总理，在某种程度上还是个迷。