One night last summer, Jarvis Britton of Birmingham, Ala., sent out a series of Twitter messages that he later described as “stupid” jokes. Prosecutors did not think they were funny.
去年夏天的一个夜晚，阿拉巴马州伯明翰的贾维斯·布里顿(Jarvis Britton)在Twitter上发布了一系列信息，他后来称这些都是“愚蠢的”笑话。但检察官却并不认为它们好笑。
“Let’s Go Kill the President,” wrote Mr. Britton, who is 26 and unemployed. “I think we could get the president with cyanide! #MakeItSlow.”
“让我们去杀掉总统，”26岁无业的布里顿写道。“我觉得我们可以用氰化物杀死总统！#慢慢来。”
When Secret Service agents showed up at his house to question him, Mr. Britton said he had been drunk and apologized. But in September, he posted another round of death threats against President Obama and was arrested. Last month, he was sentenced to a year in federal prison.
当特勤局(Secret Service)的特工出现在他家质问他时，布里顿表示，他当时喝醉了，已为此道过歉。但去年9月，他又发布了一轮针对奥巴马总统的死亡恐吓，于是被逮捕了。上个月，布里顿被判在联邦监狱服刑一年。
“Because of the repeated threats on Twitter, we took him seriously,” said Joyce White Vance, the United States attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, who prosecuted the case.
阿拉巴马州北区联邦检察官乔伊斯·怀特·万斯(Joyce White Vance)表示，“由于布里顿一再在Twitter上发布恐吓信息，我们就信了他。”万斯负责向布里顿提起诉讼。
Mr. Britton was the latest in a recent series of social media users to overstep the boundary of legal free speech and face jail time for threatening the president’s life. Last month, a Twitter user in Charlotte, N.C., Donte Jamar Sims, was sentenced to six months for posting “Ima assassinate president Obama this evening!” among other threats. And Daniel Temple of Columbus, Ohio, is awaiting sentencing for saying on Twitter that he was “coming to kill” the president and “killing you soon.”
近期，有一批社交媒体用户逾越法定的言论自由界限，因为威胁总统生命而面临监禁，而布里顿只是最新一例。上个月，北卡罗来纳州夏洛特的Twitter用户东特·哈马尔·西姆斯(Donte Jamar Sims)就因为这样的行为被判刑六个月，除了其他一些威胁言论，他在Twitter上写道，“我会在今晚暗杀奥巴马总统！”俄亥俄州哥伦布的丹尼尔·坦普尔(Daniel Temple)正在等待判决，他在Twitter上说他“要去杀”总统，“很快就会杀了你。”
A Secret Service spokesman, Brian Leary, said social media are increasingly useful for finding and tracking threats. In 2011, the agency created the @SecretService account, to let users report suspicious tweets. And a group of agents, called the Internet Threat Desk, focuses specifically on threats posted online.
特勤局发言人布赖恩·利里(Brian Leary)表示，社交媒体对寻找、追踪恐吓信息的帮助越来越大。2011年，该机构创建了 @SecretService账号，以便让用户们上报可疑的twitter帖子。一群名为网络威胁工作组(Internet Threat Desk)的特工专门关注发布在网上的恐吓信息。
“We get information from many sources. Social media is one of them,” Mr. Leary said. “We have the right and certainly the obligation to determine a person’s intent.”
“我们从很多渠道获取信息。社交媒体是其中之一，”利里说。“我们有权力，当然也有义务来查明一个人的意图。”
The Secret Service investigates an average of 10 threats against Mr. Obama each day, roughly the same number as during George W. Bush’s administration, said Ronald Kessler, author of “In the President’s Secret Service,” a book about the agency. The agency would not confirm that number and does not say how many threats it receives and turns over to the Justice Department to prosecute.
罗纳德·凯斯勒(Ronald Kessler)撰写了一本有关特勤局的书——《在总统的特勤局》(In the President’s Secret Service)。凯斯勒表示，特勤局平均每天调查10条针对奥巴马总统的恐吓信息，大约与乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)执政时期数量一致。特勤局不愿确认这一数字，也不愿意说明该机构收到恐吓信息的数量，以及移交给司法部(Justice Department)进行起诉的案件数量。
But privacy advocates worry that remarks intended for friends and followers may be misinterpreted in a courtroom or that carelessly typed posts will be seen in the same light as letters mailed to the White House.
但隐私权倡导人士担心，一些针对朋友和粉丝的言论在法庭里可能会被误解，或者有关部门会以对待邮寄给白宫(White House)信件的态度来看待那些随意发出的帖子。
“Twitter makes it easier for people to say things they don’t mean seriously and be broadcast far and wide,” said Hanni Fakhoury, a staff lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy advocacy group. “If I say online that I want to kill Obama, it’s far harder to assess how serious I am than if I’m standing across the street from the White House and I have a gun.”
“Twitter让人们更容易说一些不当真的话，而这些话却会被广泛传播，”隐私权倡导组织电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)的内部律师汉尼·法科里(Hanni Fakhoury)说。“比起我站在白宫对面拿着一把枪，如果在网上说我要杀了奥巴马，这很难判断我有多当真。”
Federal law makes it punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine to threaten the life of the president or anyone else under Secret Service protection. The law does not require proof that the suspect intended to carry out the plot.
根据联邦法律，威胁总统生命或任何受特勤局保护的人，最多可判五年监禁，并处以25万美元（约合153万元人民币）的罚款。相关法律没有要求提供能够证明嫌疑犯打算实施阴谋的证据。
Ms. Vance, the prosecutor, said the case against Mr. Britton was clear cut: He had posted two rounds of threatening messages and ignored the Secret Service’s initial warning.
检察官万斯表示，布里顿的案件非常清楚：他曾发布了两轮恐吓信息，并无视了特勤局最初的警告。
Mr. Britton, who is in prison, could not be reached. But his lawyer, Rick Burgess, said Mr. Britton had no actual plans to harm the president. Court records show that Mr. Britton has received medication for schizophrenia.
目前布里顿正在监狱服刑，无法取得联系。但他的律师里克·伯吉斯(Rick Burgess)表示，布里顿没有伤害总统的实际计划。法庭记录显示，布里顿曾接受过精神分裂症的药物治疗。
A spokeswoman for Twitter did not reply to requests for comment about whether the company removes death threats from the site or provides the Secret Service personal information about users accused of threatening the president. Court records show that in Mr. Britton’s case, a woman saw his messages, alerted the Secret Service and agents found his home address.
Twitter公司是否会删除死亡恐吓信息，或是为特勤局提供那些被控恐吓总统的用户的个人信息，公司的一位发言人没有回应对这些问题的置评请求。法庭记录显示，在布里顿的案件当中，一名妇女看到了他发布的信息，提醒了特勤局，然后特工们就找到了他的家庭住址。
The Justice Department does not say how many threats against the president have been prosecuted, according to a spokesman.
一位司法部发言人表示，司法部不会透露已对多少起针对总统的恐吓提起诉讼。
Last year, a college student in Florida said he was joking when he posted on Facebook about killing the president during a trip to the University of Miami. “Who wants to help me assassinate Obummer while hes at UM this week?” the student, Joaquin Serrapio, asked. He later was charged with threatening to harm the president, a felony. He pleaded guilty and received three years’ probation.
去年，佛罗里达州的一名大学生表示，他在Facebook上发帖声称要在总统访问迈阿密大学(University of Miami)期间刺杀总统，那是在开玩笑。这位名为乔奎因·塞拉皮奥(Joaquin Serrapio)的学生问道，“本周谁可以趁奥不马（Obummer，对奥巴马的贬义称呼——译注）在迈阿密大学期间帮我刺杀他？”他后来被控犯有重罪——威胁伤害总统。塞拉皮奥最终服罪，被判缓刑三年。
In another case, Walter Bagdasarian of San Diego said he was drunk when he posted a rant on his blog saying the president “will have a 50 cal in the head soon,” referring to a .50-caliber rifle bullet. In federal court, he won an appeal by arguing that his comment stopped short of being a threat.
在另一起案件中，圣地亚哥的沃尔特·巴达塞里安(Walter Bagdasarian)称自己在醉酒状态下，在自己的博客里大骂总统，称“他的脑袋不久就会有一个50口径。”这里指的是50口径的步枪子弹。在联邦法庭上，他坚称自己的言论算不上威胁，因而赢得上诉。
The cases based on such threats should be a reminder that there are limits on the First Amendment’s protection of free speech, said Mr. Burgess, the defense lawyer. “Whether you meant it as a joke or not,” he said, “a Twitter message takes on a whole new meaning when it’s read in a courtroom.”
辩护律师伯吉斯表示，基于此类恐吓的案件提醒我们，《第一修正案》(First Amendment)对言论自由的保护是有限的。“无论你是不是在开玩笑，”他说，“在法庭里读一条Twitter信息，它会拥有完全不同的意义。”