BEIJING — With the din they make, they are often mocked and berated and worse. Dogs have been loosed on them. Rocks flung, water sprayed.
北京——因为制造了太大的噪音，她们经常被嘲笑、斥责或遭到更恶劣地对待。曾经有人向她们放狗，扔石头和泼水。
Yet those “dancing grannies,” the middle-aged and elderly outdoor dance enthusiasts who crowd sidewalks, parks and squares across China, have shimmied on.
但“广场舞大妈”的舞步依然旋转着。这些热衷于户外舞蹈的中老年人大片聚集在中国各地的人行道、公园和广场上。
Not even the excrement lobbed by irate residents has deterred them.
极其愤怒的居民抛洒下来粪便也威慑不了她们。
But last week, opposition to their boisterous line dancing took a violent turn, when a man in the southern region of Guangxi opened fire on a troupe near his home, wounding a woman in the leg, according to news reports on Friday.
然而上周，对他们喧闹舞蹈的反对出现了激烈的一幕。据周五的新闻报道，南部省份广西的一名男子对他家附近一群跳广场舞的人开枪，打中了一名女子的腿部。
The assailant fled but was captured Wednesday by the police, according to Xinhua, the state news agency.
根据中国官方通讯社新华社报道，这名逃逸的袭击者在上周三被警方抓获。
The man was apparently riled up by the din, and he turned apoplectic when the women mocked his request to simmer down.
这名男子显然为跳舞者制造的喧闹感到烦躁。当他要求他们静一静时，却遭到了嘲笑，于是他勃然大怒。
It was the most serious unpleasant episode associated with the “dancing grannies,” a social phenomenon that has polarized many Chinese over the very public — and audible — nature of their activities.
这是与“广场舞大妈”相关的矛盾中最严重的一幕。对于他们这种行为的非常公开的性质及其产生的噪音，很多中国人持有截然不同的观点。
In recent years, the media has documented each outburst directed at the ladies — and quite a few men — who take their dance moves and amplified music to coveted slivers of urban public space.
在最近几年，媒体记录了人们在情绪爆发之下，对这些广场舞大妈——以及不少男士——采取的各种行动。后者用自己的舞姿和功放音乐，占领了大家都渴望享用的一片片都市公共空间。
In 2014, residents in the southeastern city of Wenzhou spent $42,000 on a sound system that blasted dancers with warnings about violating noise pollution laws. In 2013, a Beijing man released a snarling trio of Tibetan mastiffs on one troupe; a few months earlier, residents of a high-rise in Wuhan dumped feces onto a group of gray-haired women.
2014年，华南城市温州的一群居民筹措了26万元人民币购买了一套音响系统，大声轰炸跳广场舞的人，警告他们违反了噪音污染法规。2013年，一名北京男子放出三只藏獒攻击跳舞的人群；几个月前，武汉一栋高层建筑内的居民向一群头发花白的跳舞大妈抛洒粪便。
The new routines were described as “a nationally unified, scientifically crafted new activity that brings positive energy to the people,” Xinhua reported at the time.
新华当时的一篇报道表示，国家新编排的广场舞将成为“全国统一、编排科学、带给人正能量的规范动作。”
Some said the model routines were too complicated. Others said the regulations made no attempt to reduce the noise.
一些人表示，新的规范操作太过复杂。还有人表示，这项管理措施丝毫无益于减少这类活动的噪音。
In the end the effort failed, with most groups refusing to adopt the officially sanctioned routines.
最后，这项提议没能真正落实，大多数跳舞群体拒绝采用官方批准的规范动作。
The conflicts, though, have raged on. According to media reports that described the March 3 episode in Guangxi, the man first became angry when a group of women gallivanting across a square in the scenic town of Yangshuo refused to help push his car after it became stuck nearby.
冲突却愈演愈烈。据媒体报道，在3月3日广西发生的事件中，那名男子最初生气的原因是，他的车在景色优美的阳朔的一座广场旁边停下走不动时，在广场上跳舞的大妈拒绝帮他推车。
The news reports, which gave only the man’s surname, Mo, said he then took out an air rifle and opened fire, apparently with the goal of silencing the party.
新闻报道中只提到这名男子姓莫，文中称，之后他从家里拿出一支气枪，显然是准备让广场上跳舞的人群收声。
“He was aiming at the stereo speaker,” Xinhua said, “but accidentally shot a woman who was operating the machine in the leg.”
“他朝音箱开了几枪，”新华报道，“孰料将正在调音箱的女士右腿打中。”
Mr. Mo fled to neighboring Guangdong Province and was captured six days later.
莫某潜逃到了与广西相邻的广东省，六天之后被抓获。