ROME — From the moment he was introduced to the huge crowds waiting for a new pope in the rain at St. Peter’s Square, Pope Francis has been a surprise. People gasped when his name was called out. He was 76, seemingly another rigid conservative, not the younger, dynamic figure many Catholics had hoped for.
罗马——自从他作为新一任教皇，被介绍给雨中守候在圣彼得广场(St. Peter’s Square)大批民众的那一刻起，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)就不断让人意外。公布他的名字时，人们倒吸了一口凉气。他已76岁，看起来是又一个僵化的保守派，而非许多天主教徒所希望看到的一个更加年轻活力的形象。
Now six months later, the surprises keep coming, including the pope’s new remarks that the church risked becoming a “small chapel” overly fixated on sexual morality and should instead offer a broader, more inclusive message.
如今，在他成为教皇六个月后，出人意料的言行接踵而至，包括教皇最近讲到，教会有可能变成一个纠结于性道德的“小礼拜堂”，而它其实应该发出一个更宽泛、更包容的讯息。
Francis is challenging the status quo of the Roman Catholic Church so determinedly and so unexpectedly that Vatican watchers are debating whether this is merely a change of tone, as many had thought at first. Some now think the pope may be making a deliberate effort to shake up the Vatican governing hierarchy, known as the Curia, and prepare the ground for a more fundamental shift in the direction of the church.
方济各对罗马天主教会现状的挑战如此果断而出人意料，以至于梵蒂冈的观察家们展开辩论：这是否像许多人最初所想的那样，仅仅是换一种语气？一些人现在认为，教皇也许在作出刻意努力，要重组梵蒂冈的统治体制，即罗马教廷(the Curia)，为更加根本地改变教会发展方向做好铺垫。
“I think we are looking at major changes,” said John Thavis, a longtime Vatican observer and author of “The Vatican Diaries.” “There is a lot of disorientation inside the Roman Curia. They used to feel they were in charge. Right now, they know they are not in charge.”
“我认为我们会看到一些重大转变，”梵蒂冈长期观察家、《梵蒂冈日记》(The Vatican Diaries)的作者约翰·塔维斯(John Thavis)说道。“罗马教廷内部现在有很多人晕头转向。过去他们觉得自己说了算。现在，他们知道自己说了不算。”
The latest unexpected jolt from Pope Francis came in an interview conducted with a Jesuit journalist and released Thursday in Jesuit publications around the world. Francis, himself a Jesuit, chastised the church’s narrow focus on controversial social issues and called instead for a more merciful and less judgmental church. He had already sent out earlier signals, declining to live in the papal apartments in the Apostolic Palace, chiding prelates for driving fancy cars and announcing that church properties should be used as shelters for refugees.
方济各教皇最近在接受耶稣会一名记者采访时语出惊人。采访内容上周四刊登在世界各地的耶稣会刊物上。方济各本人作为耶稣会成员，指责教会狭隘地聚焦于有争议的社会问题，他倡导建立一个多一点慈悲、少一点评判的教会。他曾在这方面发出一些早期信号，包括拒绝入住使徒宫(Apostolic Palace)的罗马教皇公寓，斥责开豪车的主教，以及宣布教会房产应当用来收留难民。
Francis did try to temper the impact of his remarks on Friday, telling an audience of Catholic gynecologists that abortion was a symptom of our “throwaway culture” and urging them to refuse to perform the procedure.
方济各确实努力缓和他的讲话所造成的影响。上周五他在一群天主教妇科医生面前表示，堕胎是“抛弃文化”的一个表现，他敦促他们拒绝进行堕胎手术。
But there seems little question that Francis wants to change the papal conversation. His predecessor, Benedict XVI, often seemed engaged in an angry verbal jousting match with secularism and modernity, usually delivered through formal encyclicals or speeches that, to many Catholics, felt like a personal rebuke. The church seemed like “a rigid institution dictating impossible norms to follow, an overly severe mother,” said Lucetta Scaraffia, a scholar of Catholicism in Rome.
但似乎毫无疑问的是，方济各希望改变罗马教皇的谈话。他的前任，本笃十六世(Benedict XVI)往往似乎与世俗派和现代派展开愤怒的口水战，而且一般通过正式的教皇通谕或演讲来表达其观点，让许多天主教徒感觉自己受到训斥。教会似乎像是“一个僵硬的机构，强令下达不可能遵守的准则，像个过于严厉的母亲，”在罗马研究天主教的学者卢赛塔•斯卡拉菲亚(Lucetta Scaraffia)说道。
By contrast, Pope Francis has made impromptu telephone calls to people who have written him letters seeking help, while also thriving on socializing with other priests and laypeople. He is assuming the tone of the parish priest, many analysts say, recognizing that people struggle daily with issues of conscience and that the church, rather than shake a finger, must offer a broader message of comfort and healing. Many analysts have seized on an analogy cited by Francis in his interview: the church as a hospital in a battlefield.
与此相反，方济各教皇经常兴之所至，致电那些向他写信求助的人，同时兴致勃勃地与其他神父和外行人交往。许多分析人士认为，他说话的口吻就像某个基层教区的神父，意识到人们每天都在与良知有关的问题上挣扎，而教会不能只是高高在上地说教，而是必须传递一个抚慰和疗伤的整体讯息。许多分析人士抓住了方济各在受访时提出的比喻：教会好比一家战地医院。
“People have been wounded in a war over secularization,” said Ms. Scaraffia, a history professor at the University of Rome La Sapienza. “He’s saying: ‘Let’s look after the wounds. That’s more important than winning the war.’ ”
“人们在围绕世俗化的战争中已伤痕累累，”罗马大学(University of Rome La Sapienza)历史教授斯科拉菲亚说道。“他想表达的意思是：‘让我们来照顾伤者。这比赢得战争更重要。’”
The deep challenges confronting the church became evident after Benedict’s stunning decision to resign early this year. Allegations of mismanagement were erupting in the Vatican, and accusations of impropriety shook the Vatican bank. Many cardinals blamed the problems on the secretive administrative body, the Roman Curia, and wanted Benedict’s successor to usher in major reforms that would decentralize power.
在本笃今年初突然决定辞职后，教会面临的深层次挑战日益突显。有关管理不善的指控在梵蒂冈内部爆发，同时行为不当的指控严重冲击了梵蒂冈银行。许多枢机主教将这些问题归咎于行事隐秘的行政机构——罗马教廷，希望本笃的继任者能推行重大改革，下放权力。
Pope Francis has already signaled his independence from some of the Vatican’s traditional channels, and his biggest governance move, as yet, has been the creation of an advisory group of eight outside cardinals to help him usher in Curial reform. But in his interview, he hinted that bigger changes could be coming, including possible structural changes to the conferences of bishops, known as synods. He also pointedly warned that certain departments in the Curia, when functioning poorly, risk “becoming institutions of censorship.”
方济各教皇已表明自己独立于梵蒂冈的一些传统渠道，而迄今他在治理方面的最大动作，就是创建了由八名来自梵蒂冈以外的枢机主教组成的顾问小组，协助他开启教廷改革。但在采访中，他暗示会推行更大的改革，包括对主教大会(synods)进行结构改革。他还意有所指地警告称，教廷中的一些部门，若在履行职责时把握不当，就有可能“变成审查机构”。
Francis, who previously had been Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio from Argentina, was selected by a peer group of cardinals widely regarded as theological conservatives. Many analysts, as well as conservative Catholics, have noted that despite the striking differences in his young papacy, Francis remains a theological conservative who is not advocating doctrinal change.
方济各以前是阿根廷的豪尔赫·马里奥·贝尔格里奥枢机主教(Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio)，在其他枢机主教的推选下成为教皇。这个枢机主教团被普遍视为神学保守派。许多分析人士以及保守的天主教徒指出，尽管方济各教皇在上任不久的这段时间里观点时有不同，但他仍是神学保守派，并未主张对教义进行改革。
Indeed, Francis on Friday offered a strong anti-abortion message during a meeting with Catholic gynecologists. “Every child that isn’t born, but is unjustly condemned to be aborted, has the face of Jesus Christ, has the face of the Lord,” he said.
的确，方济各上周五与天主教妇科医生会面时，表明了强烈的反堕胎意见。“每一个未能出世，却不公正地遭遇堕胎的孩子，都有耶稣的面容，都有主的面容，”他说道。
But the pope seems intent on not being ideologically pigeonholed. In his Jesuit interview, Francis said that in his younger days, while overseeing the Jesuit order in Argentina, he was often quick-tempered and came under legitimate criticism. “My authoritarian and quick manner of making decisions led me to have serious problems and to be accused of being ultraconservative,” he said.
但教皇似乎极力避免被贴上意识形态的标签。在接受耶稣会采访时，方济各讲到在早期主管阿根廷耶稣会时，他经常因脾气急躁而受到正确的批评。“我独断专行而且急于作出决定，这让我麻烦不断，并被指责为极端保守派，”他说道。
But later, when he became archbishop of Buenos Aires, he changed his style, he recalled. He consulted regularly with bishops and met several times a year with councils of priests, inviting discussion and debate. “But now I hear some people tell me, ‘Do not consult too much, and decide by yourself,’ “ he said in the interview. “Instead, I believe that consultation is very important.”
但后来，他回忆道，在成为布宜诺斯艾利斯的主教后，他改变了风格。他定期和其他枢机主教进行磋商，并在一年中多次与神父代表会开会，欢迎展开讨论和辩论。“但现在，我听到有人说，‘不要过多磋商，你要自行决定，’”他在采访中讲道。“正相反，我认为磋商非常重要。”
Alberto Melloni, a prominent Vatican historian, said he thought that the cardinals, despite their conservatism, were aware that Francis would make big changes — especially since most of those same cardinals had previously elected Benedict and bore some responsibility for the shortcomings of his papacy.
知名的梵蒂冈历史学家阿尔贝托·梅洛尼(Alberto Melloni)表示，他觉得枢机主教们尽管保守，但明白方济各会推行大的变革——特别是多数枢机主教也曾推选本笃，对本笃任职期间的不足有一定责任。
But Mr. Melloni added that even if Francis remained a doctrinaire conservative, the decision to stop speaking in terms of doctrine and “nonnegotiable values” was very significant, given tight alignment in many countries between the church and political conservatives.
但梅洛尼补充道，尽管方济各在教义方面仍是保守派，但鉴于许多国家的教会和政治保守派一鼻孔出气，不再用教义和“不可谈判的价值观”来讲话是一个非常重大的决定。
“The political consequences of these changes are very strong and serious,” said Mr. Melloni, director of the John XXIII Foundation for Religious Studies in Bologna, a liberal Catholic research institute. “The Holy Father has offered a sort of new freedom to the church in the political scene.”
“这些变革会产生强烈而深远的政治影响，”身为博洛尼亚自由派天主教研究机构——若望二十三世宗教学基金会(John XXIII Foundation for Religious Studies)会长的梅洛尼指出。“圣父为置身于政治环境的教会提供了某种新的自由。”