One unhappy lesson we’ve learned in recent years is that economics is a far more political subject than we liked to imagine. Well, duh, you may say. But, before the financial crisis, many economists — even, to some extent, yours truly — believed that there was a fairly broad professional consensus on some important issues.
近些年，我们学到的一个痛苦教训是，经济学这门学科的政治性，远比我们以前料想的强。你可能会说这不废话吗。但在金融危机前，许多经济学家——在一定程度上甚至包括在下——都相信，在一些重要问题上已经达成了相当广泛的专业共识。
This was especially true of monetary policy. It’s not that many years since the administration of George W. Bush declared that one lesson from the 2001 recession and the recovery that followed was that “aggressive monetary policy can make a recession shorter and milder.” Surely, then, we’d have a bipartisan consensus in favor of even more aggressive monetary policy to fight the far worse slump of 2007 to 2009. Right?
在货币政策上尤其如此。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府曾宣布，从2001年的经济衰退，以及随后的复苏中学到的一个教训是，“激进的货币政策能缩短衰退的时间，降低衰退的强度。”那时离现在并不久远。当然，我们的两党曾达成共识，赞成用更激进的货币政策应对2007年到2009年的那场严重得多的衰退。是这样的吗？
Well, no. I’ve written a number of times about the phenomenon of “sadomonetarism,” the constant demand that the Federal Reserve and other central banks stop trying to boost employment and raise interest rates instead, regardless of circumstances. I’ve suggested that the persistence of this phenomenon has a lot to do with ideology, which, in turn, has a lot to do with class interests. And I still think that’s true.
不是。我写过很多有关“货币施虐癖”现象的文章，这种现象是指，不管情况如何，不断要求美联储(Federal Reserve)和其他央行停止提振就业的尝试，并提升利率。我说过，这种现象的持久存在与意识形态有很大关系，而意识形态反过来又和阶级利益有莫大关系。我现在依然这么认为。
But I now think that class interests also operate through a cruder, more direct channel. Quite simply, easy-money policies, while they may help the economy as a whole, are directly detrimental to people who get a lot of their income from bonds and other interest-paying assets — and this mainly means the very wealthy, in particular the top 0.01 percent.
但现在，我认为阶级利益还会通过一个更天然、更直接的渠道发挥作用。很简单，尽管宽松的货币政策总体上或许有助于经济，但它们却会直接损害一些人的利益。这些人的大量收入来自债券，以及其他一些付息资产——主要是那些非常富有的人，尤其是最富有的那0.01%。
The story so far: For more than five years, the Fed has faced harsh criticism from a coalition of economists, pundits, politicians, and financial-industry moguls warning that it is “debasing the dollar” and setting the stage for runaway inflation. You might have thought that the continuing failure of the predicted inflation to materialize would cause at least a few second thoughts, but you’d be wrong. Some of the critics have come up with new rationales for unchanging policy demands — it’s about inflation! no, it’s about financial stability! — but most have simply continued to repeat the same warnings.
截至目前的情况是：五年多来，美联储一直面临着一个由经济学家、专家评论人士、政界人物和金融业大亨组成的联盟的严厉指责。他们警告称，这么做是在“让美元贬值”，可能会造成失控的通货膨胀。你兴许以为，一些人预测的通货膨胀一直未能变成现实这一点，至少会让人们多想一想，但是你错了。一些批评人士已经为保持政策需求不变找到了新的理由——这关乎通货膨胀！不对，是关乎金融稳定！——但大部分人只是继续重复同样的警告。
Who are these always-wrong, never-in-doubt critics? With no exceptions I can think of, they come from the right side of the political spectrum. But why should right-wing sentiments go hand in hand with inflation paranoia? One answer is that using monetary policy to fight slumps is a form of government activism. And conservatives don’t want to legitimize the notion that government action can ever have positive effects, because once you start down that path you might end up endorsing things like government-guaranteed health insurance.
这些永远持错误观点却从不存疑的批评人士是谁？他们都来自政治派系中的右翼阵营，我想不到任何例外情况。但右翼人士为何与通货膨胀偏执狂携手而行呢？其中一个答案是，用货币政策抗击衰退是政府激进主义的一种形式。而且保守派不愿为政府行动可能会带来积极影响这个说法正名，因为一旦走上这条道路，你最后便可能会赞同政府担保医疗保险这样的项目。
But there’s also a much more direct reason for those defending the interests of the wealthy to complain about easy money: The wealthy derive an important part of their income from interest on bonds, and low-rate policies have greatly reduced this income.
但还有一个更为直接的原因，导致那些捍卫富人利益的人埋怨宽松的货币政策：那些富人的收入中，颇为重要的一部分来自债券利息，而低利率政策导致这类收入大幅减少。
Complaints about low interest rates are usually framed in terms of the harm being done to retired Americans living on the interest from their CDs. But the interest receipts of older Americans go mainly to a small and relatively affluent minority. In 2012, the average older American with interest income received more than $3,000, but half the group received $255 or less. The really big losers from low interest rates are the truly wealthy — not even the 1 percent, but the 0.1 percent or even the 0.01 percent. Back in 2007, before the slump, the average member of the 0.01 percent received $3 million (in 2012 dollars) in interest. By 2011, that had fallen to $1.3 million — a loss equivalent to almost 9 percent of the group’s 2007 income.
对低利率的抱怨，采取的形式通常是称低利率给美国那些靠存款利息为生的退休人员造成了危害。但上了年纪的美国人的利息收入主要流向了规模较小、相对富裕的少数人。2012年，美国有利息收入的老年人平均获得了逾3000美元（约合1.9万元人民币），但其中一半人得到的不超过255美元。低利率真正的大输家是那些真正有钱的人——甚至不是最富有的那1%的人，而是最富有的那0.1%乃至0.01%的人。回到经济衰退前的2007年，那0.01%的人中，平均每人会有300万美元（按2012年的美元计算）的利息收入。而到了2011年，这个数字降到了130万美元——损失相当于这个群体2007年收入的近9%。
That’s a lot, and it surely explains a lot of the hysteria over Fed policy. The rich are even more likely than most people to believe that what’s good for them is good for America — and their wealth and the influence it buys ensure that there are always plenty of supposed experts eager to find justifications for this attitude. Hence sadomonetarism.
损失很大，当然也解释了对美联储政策的许多歇斯底里。富人甚至比大部分人更愿意相信，有利于他们的，就有利于美国，而他们的财富以及财富买来的影响力，确保了总是有大量被认为是专家的人急于为这一态度找理由。于是就出现了货币施虐癖。
Which brings me back to the politicization of economics.
这就让我重新回到了经济学政治化这个问题。