Late one night in January 2012, Paige Palmer called her mother at home, crying. She was entering her final semester as a communications major at St. Mary’s College of California in Moraga, and neither she nor her friends were finding work. The job market was terrifying.
2012年1月的一个深夜，佩姬·帕默(Paige Palmer)哭着给家里的妈妈打了通电话。佩姬是加州莫瑞加圣玛丽学院(St. Mary’s College of California)的一名学生，主修传播专业，正要进入她在大学的最后一个学期，而她和朋友们都还没有找到工作。那一年的求职市场简直惨淡得让人害怕。
“In this culture, your whole life is planned out until you graduate from university,” Ms. Palmer, 22, said. “That time had come, and I didn’t know what was at the end of the tunnel.”
“在我们的社会文化里，你的整个人生都是被规划好的，直到你大学毕业，”22岁的帕默小姐说，“对我来说，这个时刻已经来了，但是我还不知道前方迎接我的会是什么。”
Ms. Palmer’s concerns found a receptive audience in her stepfather, Tony Uzzi. In June 2010, after 25 years in the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Uzzi, 55, was laid off from his job as senior vice president for sales at a pharmaceutical company based in Switzerland.
帕默小姐的担忧在她的继父托尼·尤兹(Tony Uzzi)那里找到了共鸣。2010年6月，现年55岁的尤兹从瑞士一家制药公司高级销售副总裁的职位上被裁员了，他之前在这一行已经工作了25年。
He spent a year playing golf and trying to start a consulting career, but he grew bored; going back to the corporate world was not really an option. “Not a lot of attractive job offers came my way,” he said. “None. I was 53. I had been making several hundred thousand dollars a year, and no one wanted to pay me that.”
随后，尤兹先生花了一年的时间泡在高尔夫球场上，并尝试开展咨询类的工作，不过最后还是觉得没什么意思；再回到公司工作也不再是可行的选择。“我没有收到多少有吸引力的工作邀约，”他说，“一个都没有。我当时已经53岁了；在下岗之前我的年收入有好几十万美元，而那之后没有人再愿意付我那么高的薪水。”
Eight months later, Mr. Uzzi and Ms. Palmer put down $130,000 of Mr. Uzzi’s money to open in Mission Viejo, Calif., a franchise of Nurse Next Door, a home health care service based in Vancouver, British Columbia.
八个月后，尤兹先生和帕默小姐用前者出资的13万美元买下了“邻家护士”(Nurse Next Door)这个家庭保健服务品牌在加州米申维耶霍市的特许经营权；该品牌的总部设在加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省温哥华。
With that, they joined a growing number of parent-child partners who have responded to poor job prospects by buying franchises together. During the first month in operation, Mr. Uzzi said, they took in $23,000 in revenue, a first-month record for Nurse Next Door. Six months later, he said, they were averaging about twice that amount.
自那之后，他们就成了众多因为工作市场不景气而做出同样决定的亲子拍档中的一员，像这样的拍档组合也在日益增多。据尤兹先生透露，他们的门店开张后第一个月就实现了2.3万美元的营业额，而这也是“邻家护士”所有加盟店里首月营业额的最高纪录。六个月后，他们的平均营业额又翻了一番。
Concrete figures on multigenerational franchises are hard to come by. But anecdotal evidence suggests they are becoming increasingly common for job-seeking parents and children who have an entrepreneurial urge but not the experience or confidence to start a business alone.
对于这样几代人共同参与的特许经营来说，具体数据或许不那么容易获得，但是有事例可以证明，它们在找工作的父母和孩子当中正变得越来越普遍，尤其是当他们有着创业冲动，但又没有足够的经验和信心来独立开创一番事业。
Rick Bisio, a franchise consultant in Bradenton Beach, Fla., and the author of “The Educated Franchisee,” said that 10 to 20 percent of the franchisees he places start as parent-child pairs and that the number has risen since the economic turmoil.
里克·比思欧(Rick Bisio)是一名佛罗里达州布雷登顿海滩的特许经营顾问，同时也是《特许经营者须知》(The Educated Franchisee)一书的作者；据他表示，在他的帮助下办理特许经营权的人里，有10%至20%都是亲子拍档，而这一数字在经济萧条之后更是见涨。
An analysis by The Associated Press found that in 2011, 53.6 percent of those with bachelor’s degrees under age 25 were jobless or underemployed, compared with 41 percent in 2000. And according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average length of unemployment for workers over 55 has risen to more than a year.
美联社的一份分析报告也显示，2011年，年龄在25岁以下持有大学本科文凭的人当中，53.6%都没有工作，或是屈就于与自己并不匹配的职位，而这一比例在2000年还是41%。美国劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)发布的数据也显示，年龄在55岁以上的人士平均失业时长已达到一年以上。
“In the U.S., the economy has been rough since 2008,” said John DeHart, co-founder and chief executive of Nurse Next Door. “You have a lot of seasoned executives getting packages, and they’re looking for new careers. And you have this disproportionately high unemployment in the under-25 group. With that you get the dad/grad trend.”
“美国的经济情况从2008年开始就一直不稳，”“邻家护士”联合创始人兼首席执行官约翰·迪哈特(John DeHart)说。“很多在职场摸爬滚打多年的高层人士都不得不领遣散费走人，开始寻找新的职业生涯。在25岁以下的人群当中，失业率又高得不成比例，所有这些因素结合起来，就有了这种老爸+应届毕业生的创业组合。”
Mr. DeHart said that four of the 11 franchises his company has opened in the United States in the past year have combined parents and recent graduates.
据迪哈特先生透露，他的公司去年在美国开了11家授权店，其中有四家都是由父母和应届大学毕业生子女一起经营。
Larry Leonard is one such older worker who turned to opening a franchise with his children after a job loss. Mr. Leonard, 59, had been in the steel business for 38 years when he was “down-sized” from his job as president of a small steel company in Chicago Heights, Ill.
拉里·伦纳德(Larry Leonard)就是这些“大龄”创业者中的一员；在失业之后，他和几个子女一起合营了一份品牌特许生意。现年59岁的伦纳德先生曾在炼钢行业工作了38年，但是因为公司要“人员精简”，他就从伊利诺伊州芝加哥海茨的一家小钢铁公司的总裁职位上被辞退了下来。
After an executive search firm told him it would take at least eight months to find another job, he and his family turned to CPR Cell Phone Repair, a telephone- and tablet-repair franchiser. The expected cost for the first store is about $125,000, said Mr. Leonard, who bought the rights to open eight stores over the next five years.
一家专门替人招聘高级管理人才的猎头公司告诉他，（像他这样的情况）再找到工作至少需要八个月的时间。于是，伦纳德先生干脆和家人转而一起加盟了CPR手机维修店(CPR Cell Phone Repair)——一家专门为手机和平板电脑提供维修服务的连锁店。伦纳德先生买下了给该连锁品牌在五年内开设八家分店的特许经营权，并透露第一家店的花费预期在12.5万美元左右。
His wife, Paula, will run the front desk, Mr. Leonard said, while his older son, Russell, 29, will be responsible for marketing; his younger son, Philip, 27, for technology; and his daughter, Carolyn, 24, for social media. That division of labor is common among multigenerational franchisees, with parents typically handling jobs that require local connections and the children taking care of day-to-day operations and online marketing.
伦纳德先生还透露，店里的前台将由他太太宝拉(Paula)负责，29岁的大儿子拉塞尔(Russell)负责市场营销，27岁的次子菲利浦(Philip)负责技术维护，24岁的小女儿卡洛琳(Carolyn)负责社交媒体。类似的劳动分工在多代合营的品牌特许经营中非常常见，他们通常都由父母去处理那些需要在当地较有人脉的工作，而子女就负责日常运营和网上营销。
“I thought, I’m going to be 60 and if I could spend the last five to 10 years of my working life building up a company that would help me in retirement and help my children, I would investigate,” Mr. Leonard said from a soon-to-open branch in Orland Park, Ill. “We could make $30,000 to $50,000 per store in profit. It will take a few stores to match my old salary, but I’m building for the future, not just for today.”
现在，伦纳德先生在伊利诺伊州奥兰帕克市的特许直营店也很快就要开张了。他表示：“我当时想着，我都快60岁了，假如可以把职业生涯的最后五到十年用来创建一家公司，并使自己的退休生活和子女都从中获益，那我肯定愿意考虑。在利润方面，我们每家店可以赚个三到五万，所以要实现我原来的工资水平需要开好几家店，不过我的着眼点是在将来，不只是现在。”
Laid off parents and their unemployed children are often attracted to franchising because it offers easy-to-follow systems. But that guiding hand has a price. The overall cost of opening a franchise can range from roughly $50,000 for a pet-services store to $445,000 for a restaurant, according to data from the industry magazine Franchise Business Review.
对下岗的父母和找不到工作的子女来说，他们容易被品牌特许经营所吸引，是因为这种方式提供了一种易于遵循的体系，而这份“引导”也需要相应地附出代价。据行业杂志《特许经营商业评论》(Franchise Business Review)统计，品牌特许经营的总费用可以从5万美元（如开一家宠物店）到44.5万美元（如开一家餐厅）不等。
In addition, franchisees usually pay 5 to 8 percent of their revenue in royalty fees to the franchiser, said Eric Stites, chief executive of Franchise Business Review. “While franchising can be profitable, it’s a long-term investment,” Mr. Stites said. “Most franchisees will need seven to 10 years or longer to grow a successful business to a point where they can potentially sell it and make a solid return on their investment, and clearly, there are no guarantees.”
除此以外，该杂志的首席执行官埃里克·斯蒂茨(Eric Stites)还表示，加盟商通常要将他们营业额的5%至8%作为特许权使用费上缴给授权公司。“从事特许经营是有利可图的，但这也是一项长期的投资。大多数特许经营店要经过7到10年——甚至更长的时间才能把生意做到可以卖出一个赚钱回本的价格；此外，很显然，这也没有必然的保证。”
When Greg Galvez, now 52, took early retirement from his job as general manager of imported beverages at Coca-Cola after a 2011 reorganization, he bought the rights to open Proshred Security document-shredding franchises in Georgia. He operates his first in Norcross, Ga. with the help of his 16-year-old twins, who may join the business full time after college.
2011年，因为企业重组，现年52岁的格雷格·加维斯(Greg Galvez)先生从可口可乐公司进口饮料总经理的职位上提前退休，然后买下了Proshred Security文件粉碎公司在乔治亚州的代理权，并在两个16岁双胞胎孩子的帮助下在乔治亚州诺克罗斯市开设了第一家分店；等他的两个儿子大学毕业，也可能会全职参与进来。
Mr. Galvez said the company’s training and software were helpful — “the operating process is there in a box,” he said — and his work at Coca-Cola, including helping to introduce Mexican Coke to the United States, provided useful experience. But he said his big-company background did not teach him how to find and approach a local market. “The clients’ needs are evolving all the time, and I’m lacking that insight,” he said. “At a large company you can buy research, but in a start-up you can’t. It’s a lot more trial and error.”
加维斯先生表示，他的授权公司提供的培训和软件非常有用，“操作流程非常简单，一学就会，”而他在可口可乐公司的工作经历，如曾经参与把墨西哥可乐(Mexican Coke)引入美国也对现在很有裨益。不过加维斯先生也说，他在大公司的工作背景并没有教会他如何开拓并接触本地市场。“客户的需求总是在不断演变，而我缺乏这种洞察力。在大公司，你可以花钱购买别人的研究成果，但是对刚起步的公司来说，你买不起，就只能更多地在试验和错误中摸索学习。”
The family dynamic can also be tricky. When Millie Vazquez’s two adult children, Julio, 30, and Alvaro, 34, moved back home several years ago and were looking for work, she decided to open a third Blimpie franchise in Paterson, N.J., not far from her first two.
此外，这种家族经营的内部关系也可能暗藏风波。几年前，当米莉·瓦斯奎兹(Millie Vazquez)的两个儿子——30岁的胡里奥(Julio)和34岁的阿尔瓦罗(Alvaro)从外地回家，并且开始找工作时，米莉决定要在新泽西州帕特森市开设她的第三家Blimpie三明治连锁店，且距离她的前两家店也不远。
She quickly ran into trouble with her sons, who wanted to create off-menu sandwiches and go outside the Blimpie system in other ways. As she fought with Alvaro, who was managing the store, she says his hair began to fall out from stress: “At one point it got so bad, I said to Alvaro, ‘You know what? You’re fired.’ ”
然而在这当中，她很快就和两个儿子起了矛盾，因为后者老是想要创造一些菜单以外的三明治，还想突破一些Blimpie在其他方面的固有体系。米莉回忆说，当时她和负责这家店的阿尔瓦罗争执不下，以至于后者的头发都因为压力太大而开始脱落：“直到有一天，我实在忍无可忍，就对阿尔瓦罗说：‘你给我听好，你被解雇了。’”
After leaving briefly, Alvaro returned and the two brothers retook the Blimpie training program; the store is now “a gold mine,” Ms. Vazquez said.
然而，在短暂地离开了一段时间之后，阿尔瓦罗又回来了，并且和胡里奥一起重新完成了Blimpie的培训课程。现在，瓦斯奎兹女士表示，这家店已经成了他们家的“摇钱树”。
For Ms. Palmer at Nurse Next Door, moving from the freedom of college to a job that required her to be constantly on call was a difficult transition. “When we’re home for dinner, do we talk about business?” she said. “This isn’t a normal 9-to-5 job.”
至于经营“邻家护士”的帕默小姐，她从大学里的自由自在向一份需要随叫随到的工作转换角色也不是易事。“我们回家吃晚饭还会不会谈论业务？”她说，“这可不是一份普通朝九晚五的工作。”
In the end, though, she said that taking on the responsibility had been worth it. The franchise, which opened in September, is on course for $500,000 in first-year revenue, Mr. Uzzi said.
不过，她最后也表示，负起这样的责任还是有回报的。据尤兹先生透露，他们的特许经营店自9月开张以来，第一年的营业额已经直奔50万美元。
Meanwhile, many of Ms. Palmer’s college friends have not stopped looking for work.
与此同时，帕默小姐的很多大学同窗好友还在求职路上苦苦探索。 
“All of my friends have left the area in search of jobs,” she said. “Or they’re baby-sitting.”
“我所有的朋友都为了找工作而离开了这个地区，”她说，“要么就在做着兼职看孩子这样的差事。”