General Motors issued four new recalls on Tuesday, bringing its total for the year to 13.5 million, already the most in the company’s history.
周二，通用汽车(General Motors)又宣布了四起召回行动。今年迄今，通用汽车宣布召回了1350万辆汽车，已是公司历史上召回汽车最多的一年。
The recalls — including 2.4 million cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles involved in Tuesday’s actions — represent an extraordinary about-face for the nation’s largest automaker. Since February, G.M. has been under intense pressure from federal officials, safety advocates and consumers for its decade-long failure to fix cars with a defective ignition switch that G.M. has linked to 13 deaths.
周二的召回行动涉及240万辆轿车、卡车和运动型多功能车。对于这家美国最大的汽车生产商来说，召回行动代表着非同寻常的巨大转变。今年2月以来，该公司一直处于联邦官员、汽车安全倡导人士和消费者的巨大压力之下，这是因为，在长达10年的时间里，通用汽车都未能修复点火开关存在问题的车辆。通用汽车已经承认，这个缺陷与13人的死亡有关。
In response, it has made broad changes to its safety practices and more aggressively identified problems. Its mounting tally of safety actions has already far surpassed the 758,000 vehicles that the company recalled in the United States last year, and it is more than four times the nearly 2.8 million vehicles it sold domestically last year. At any given time, about 250 million cars are registered in America.
作为回应，公司已经在安全操作方面做出了大范围调整，并且在更加积极地查找问题。公司今年召回汽车的累积数量，已远远大于去年召回的75.8万辆，是去年国内销量——近280万辆——的四倍还多。目前，在任意时间点，美国的注册汽车大约有2.5亿辆。
But the newly aggressive approach to safety has not mollified some of G.M.’s toughest critics.
不过，通用汽车最近在安全问题上采用的强势出击手法，并没有让一些最激烈的批评者感到满意。
“They are doing damage control and reacting to the outrage over their history of concealing safety issues,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, said in an interview on Tuesday.
康涅狄格州的民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)周二在采访中说，“他们只是在控制损失，对因为他们长期掩盖安全问题而引发的愤怒做出反应。”
Last week, the Transportation Department hit G.M. with a $35 million penalty, the maximum allowed under law, and imposed oversight of the automaker’s safety practices for neglecting to inform government officials of the ignition-switch defect in a timely manner.
由于通用汽车未能及时将汽车点火开关的缺陷告知政府官员，上周，美国交通部对其处以了3500万美元（约合2.2亿元人民币）的罚款——已是法律允许的最高额度——并对其安全措施实施监管。
And with more state and federal investigations underway, the automaker desperately needs to demonstrate that it is taking vehicle safety more seriously than in the past.
随着州级和联邦机构开展更多调查，这家汽车生产商目前迫切需要证明，自己提高了对汽车安全的重视程度。
G.M.’s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said during congressional hearings in April that the company was intent on swiftly rooting out problems with its vehicles and repairing them.
通用汽车的首席执行官玛丽·T·芭拉(Mary T. Barra)今年4月在国会的听证会上说，公司打算迅速根除问题，对汽车进行修理。
“All of our G.M. employees and I are determined to set a new standard,” Ms. Barra said.
“通用汽车的全体员工以及我本人都下定决心要设定新标杆，”芭拉说。
G.M. has named the company’s first vice president in charge of global vehicle safety, Jeff Boyer. It has also added 35 product investigators to examine warranty claims and other data for vehicle defects that might not have been detected before.
通用汽车已任命公司历史上首位负责全球汽车安全事务的副总裁杰夫·博耶尔(Jeff Boyer)。公司还增加了35名产品调查员，研究保修索赔等数据，寻找以前可能未发现的汽车缺陷。
So far this year, the company has issued 29 safety recalls in the United States, including the four announced on Tuesday, covering dozens of models and a wide range of defective parts.
今年迄今，包括周二宣布的四起召回行动，通用汽车已经因为安全问题在美国发起29宗召回，涵盖了十几款车型和多种有缺陷的零部件。
It has been a humbling experience for a company that has promoted its overall improvements since going bankrupt and receiving a $49.5 billion federal bailout in 2009.
对通用汽车来说，这是羞愧难当的经历。2009年破产保护并获得495亿美元的联邦救援款之后，通用汽车一直在宣传公司的全面改进。
Industry analysts said the pressure on Ms. Barra and the company was having an effect.
一些行业分析师称，芭拉和公司承受的压力起到了作用。
“It is reassuring to see that her actions match her testimony and press releases, but the fact is that it is a reflection of a tougher stance being adopted by federal regulators,” said Eric Ibara, an analyst with the auto-research firm Kelley Blue Book.
汽车业调研公司凯利蓝皮书(Kelley Blue Book)的分析师埃里克·伊巴拉(Eric Ibara)说，“看到她兑现了证词和新闻稿中的诺言，这让人感到宽慰，但事实上，这反映了联邦监管机构正在采取更强硬的立场。”
The repair bills have been costly as well. The recalls announced on Tuesday, which required a $200 million charge, brought the overall expense of G.M.’s safety actions this year to $1.7 billion, wiping out much of its profit.
维修这些汽车需要很大一笔开销。周二宣布召回的车辆需要2亿美元的维修费，因此，通用汽车今年在安全措施上的总花费将达17亿美元，会抹掉很大一部分利润。 
And while G.M.’s sales have not suffered, its reputation for vehicle quality has been badly tarnished.
此外，尽管通用汽车的销量没有受到多大影响，但其汽车质量的声誉已经遭受重创。
The latest recall also came as Senator Blumenthal and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of Florida, introduced legislation that would make it harder for corporations to seal court records in product-liability lawsuits.
就在最近这次召回行动的同时，布卢门撒尔和来自佛罗里达州的共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)推出了一份提案，目的是使企业更难以封锁产品可靠性案件中的法庭记录。
This year’s recalls broke G.M.’s previous record for recalled cars, more than 10.7 million in 2004.
今年的召回规模打破了通用汽车公司之前的记录——2004年的1070多万辆。
G.M. said on Tuesday that its latest round of recalls included 1.3 million large S.U.V.s that had front-seat safety belts that could wear out and break over time.
通用汽车周二表示，最新一轮召回的汽车中包括1300万辆大型运动型多功能车。这些车的前座安全带长期使用后容易老化和断裂。
The vehicles with the problem are 2009-14 Buick Enclaves, Chevrolet Traverses and GMC Acadias, and 2009-10 Saturn Outlooks.
存在问题的车型是2009至2014年款的别克昂科雷(Enclaves)、雪佛兰Traverse和GMC Acadias，以及2009至2010年款的土星Outlooks。
G.M. did not say whether it knew of accidents or injuries associated with the issue, but it has told its dealers they cannot sell new or used models of the vehicles until repairs are made.
通用汽车没有披露是否知晓与该问题有关的事故或人员受伤情况，但它告诉经销商，在维修完成之前，不得销售这些型号的新车或二手车。
Another recall covers more than a million midsize cars from the 2007-8 model years. The vehicles include the Chevrolet Malibu, Malibu Maxx and Pontiac G6 sedans, and the recall involves faulty cables that could make it difficult for drivers to shift gears.
第二起召回则涉及超过100万辆的2007至2008年款的中型车，包括雪佛兰迈锐宝(Malibu)、迈锐宝Maxx(Malibu Maxx)和庞蒂克G6轿车。这些车型的电缆问题可能导致司机难以换挡。
G.M. said it was aware of 18 crashes and one injury related to the problem.
通用汽车表示，已经得知18起事故和一人受伤与该问题有关。
The two other recalls were smaller, but they involved new models that had only recently gone on sale.
另外两起召回行动的规模更小，但涉及刚刚上市的几款新车型。
G.M. said it was recalling 1,402 Cadillac Escalades and Escalade ESVs from the 2015 model year for a defective weld that could result in only partial deployment of air bags in an accident.
通用汽车称，正在召回1402辆2015年款的凯迪拉克凯雷德(Escalades)和凯雷德加长版(Escalade ESV)。这两款车型存在一处焊接问题，可能导致事故发生时只有部分安全气囊启动。
And in one of the smallest recalls on record, G.M. said it would recall 58 heavy-duty Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups from its 2015 model lineup because fasteners attached to a generator could become loose and potentially cause fires.
通用汽车还表示，将召回58辆重型雪佛兰西尔维拉多(Silverado)和GMC西拉(Sierra)皮卡。这是规模最小的召回行动之一。两种车型来自2015年款的产品系列，车上一个发电机的紧固件可能会松动，进而带来火灾风险。
The company’s troubles have not gone unnoticed by investors. On a day when the broader stock market fell less than 1 percent, G.M.’s shares fell nearly 3.5 percent, to $33.07 a share.
投资者也注意到了通用汽车的种种问题。当天，整体股市下跌不到1%，但通用汽车的股价下挫了将近3.5%，至每股33.07美元。
G.M.’s stock price has declined nearly 20 percent this year.
今年以来，通用汽车的股价已下滑了将近20%。