The antitrust case against Google filed by European Union regulators on Wednesday will inevitably draw comparisons to the long-running prosecution of Microsoft, in which regulators on both sides of the Atlantic pursued the software giant for anticompetitive behavior.
欧盟监管者周三对谷歌(Google)发起的反垄断诉讼，势必会被人拿来和持续多年的微软(Microsoft)案相提并论，后者引起了大西洋两岸监管机构的指控，认为这个软件巨头存在反竞争行为。
But Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s competition commissioner, may not find the comparison entirely flattering. With more than a decade of hindsight, the theories supporting the case against Microsoft have all but fallen apart, and the pursuit of the company that makes Windows may suggest a reason for skepticism about this fight against Google: The tech marketplace is fluid and unpredictable. The giants that look most unbeatable today could falter in ways that may once have seemed unthinkable — and without a lot of help from the government.
但欧盟竞争事务专员玛格丽特·韦斯塔格尔(Margrethe Vestager)也许并不乐于听到这样的比较。回顾过去这十几年，那些指控微软的说法都是站不住脚的，而对制作了Windows的公司发起的讨伐，也许会让我们对现在这场针对谷歌的争执产生疑虑：科技市场是流动的，不可预测的。一个在今天看起来无法战胜的巨型企业，也许会出现从前无法想象的动摇，而且无需政府出手相助。
“In the Microsoft case, if they’d just waited a while, the problems they thought they saw would have disappeared because technology, consumer behavior and the market demand changed enough to correct those problems,” said Geoffrey A. Manne, executive director of the International Center for Law and Economics, a policy research organization that has received funding from technology companies including, in the past, Google. 
“微软这个案子，他们只需要再等一段时间，那些当时他们以为存在的问题，也就消失了，因为技术、消费者行为和市场需求的改变足以纠正这些问题，”国际法律和经济学中心(International Center for Law and Economics)总干事杰弗瑞·A·曼(Geoffrey A. Manne)说，该中心是一个政策研究机构，曾得到包括谷歌在内的科技公司的资助。
In a 2013 law review article comparing the antitrust pursuit against Google to the Microsoft case, Mr. Manne was more succinct: “Microsoft’s market position was unassailable ... until it wasn’t.”
曼在2013年撰写了一篇法律评论，对谷歌和微软的反垄断案进行比较，在文中他的看法很简单：“微软的市场地位是不可动摇的……直到有一天形势扭转。”
The same, he said, could turn out to be true of Google. The rise of mobile devices and the prevalence of apps could make the traditional search engine less central. And if the regulators emerge victorious, they could end up constraining Google in a way that makes its services less useful to consumers — which would be a hollow victory indeed.
他说，谷歌同样可能出现这样的情况。移动设备的兴起以及应用的普及动摇了传统搜索引擎的核心地位。如果监管者最终获胜，它们也许会对谷歌进行限制，这样一来它的服务对消费者就没那么有用了——这样的胜利实可谓空有其表。
The similarities in the cases against Microsoft and Google are striking. Microsoft once had a dominant position in the worldwide market for computer operating systems: Windows was installed on nearly 90 percent of desktop computers. Google’s current position in the market for web search engines looks similarly unbeatable: The company claims nine out of every 10 searches in Europe.
微软与谷歌案的相似性十分惊人。微软曾经在全球电脑操作系统市场拥有统治地位：将近90%的台式电脑安装了Windows。谷歌目前在网络搜索引擎市场的地位，同样显得不可一世：欧洲人的搜索，10次中有九次是用谷歌。
In 1999, a federal judge ruled that Microsoft had abused its operating system monopoly by pushing users into some of its other products, especially its web browser, Internet Explorer. The court found many instances of unfair competition against Intel, Apple, IBM and Netscape. Among other bits of mischief, Microsoft blocked Netscape Navigator, then the dominant browser, from getting crucial technical hooks into Windows.
1999年，一名联邦法官做出裁决，认为微软强迫用户使用公司的其他产品，尤其是它的网络浏览器Internet Explorer，从而对其操作系统垄断地位构成了滥用。法庭在对英特尔(Intel)、苹果(Apple)、IBM和网景(Netscape)的诉讼中也发现了许多不公平竞争行为。微软的其中一项恶行是禁止当时有绝对优势的Netscape Navigator在Windows内进行至关重要的技术绑定。
Now Google is said to have behaved in a similarly abusive way. In a 2012 report by Federal Trade Commission staff members that was recently uncovered by The Wall Street Journal, regulators found that Google increased the prominence of its services above competing “vertical search engines,” like those for shopping, travel and local services.
现在的谷歌也被认为存在类似的滥用行为。《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)近日发现了一份美国联邦贸易委员会（Federal Trade Commission，简称FTC）工作人员在2012年起草的报告，报告中称监管人员发现谷歌在拉大和一些“垂直搜索引擎”对手的差距，比如那些购物、旅行和本地服务。
The investigation also found that Google brazenly copied content from competitors to improve its services. For instance, the company used Amazon’s product rankings to determine how to rank products in its own shopping search engine. The F.T.C. and Google later settled. Still, the European Commission’s new charges echo the F.T.C.’s claims.
调查还发现谷歌不知羞耻地拷贝竞争对手的内容，以改进自己的服务。比如公司使用亚马逊(Amazon)的产品评分来评定产品在自己的购物搜索引擎中的排名。FTC和谷歌后来达成了和解。欧洲委员会的新指控跟FTC是相似的。
These actions are not necessarily as terrible as they seem. In 1999, Microsoft argued that bundling its web browser with its operating system was good for consumers who needed a way to easily get on the Internet. In retrospect, that looks defensible — today, every computer, tablet and smartphone ship with built-in browsers, because everyone believes they are an important aspect of the user experience of computers.
这些做法不见得就像看起来那么可怕。微软在1999年提出，把它的网络浏览器和操作系统捆绑起来，对消费者是有好处的，便于他们连入互联网。如今看来，这个说法是有道理的——如今的所有电脑、平板和智能手机出厂时都内置了浏览器，因为大家都认为，这是电脑用户体验的一个重要方面。
Google argues, similarly, that giving people answers to shopping and travel queries on its main search results page is much more helpful than giving them a bunch of links to competing search services.
同样地，谷歌也辩称，其主搜索结果页面为人们购物和旅行方面的疑问提供答案，比提供一堆同类搜索服务的链接要有用得多。
Some observers agree. “The analogy I like to use is, complaining that Google is lifting its own vertical search engine over other vertical search engines would be like complaining that The New York Times is not carrying The Los Angeles Times’s sports section,” said Danny Sullivan, founder of Search Engine Land, an online publication that tracks the search industry. “You don’t expect The New York Times to carry a rival sports section. But you do expect it to have a sports section. When people go to a search engine, they’re looking to search across everything.”
一些观察人士表示赞同。“我常用的一个类比是，抱怨谷歌把自己的垂直搜索引擎置于其他垂直搜索引擎之上，就像是抱怨《纽约时报》上没有刊登《洛杉矶时报》体育版的内容一样，”关注搜索引擎行业的在线出版物“搜索引擎天地”(Search Engine Land)的创始人丹尼·沙利文(Danny Sullivan)说。“你不会指望《纽约时报》上刊登竞争对手的体育版内容。但是，你的确会希望它有体育版。当人们使用搜索引擎时，他们希望搜索范围可以覆盖一切。”
As Google pointed out in its response to the European filing, linking to its own services has not destroyed its rivals. Google Travel, for instance, is still far less popular than competitors.
正如谷歌在回应欧盟诉讼时指出，链接到自己的服务，并没有对竞争对手造成毁灭性影响。例如，谷歌旅游(Google Travel)的人气仍然远远落后于竞争对手。
As powerful as Microsoft looked at the time, officials missed ways in which it was vulnerable. For starters, they didn’t anticipate the rise of mobile devices. The 1999 ruling against Microsoft found there were “no products, nor are there likely to be any in the near future” that people around the world could use as “substitutes” for Windows computers. In fact, within a few years, unexpected rivals began making such substitutes. In 2007, Apple released the iPhone, and soon after, Google released the Android operating system, which Samsung, HTC, Motorola and other manufacturers used to take the smartphone global and mainstream.
虽然微软当时看起来十分强大，一些官员却忽视了它脆弱的方面。首先，他们没有预见到移动设备的崛起。1999年做出的不利于微软的裁决称，全世界的人们没有可以“代替”Windows电脑的产品，“目前不存在，在不远的未来也不太可能出现”。事实上，就在几年后，出人意料的竞争对手开始推出替代产品。2007年，苹果推出了iPhone，不久之后，谷歌推出了Android操作系统，三星(Samsung)、HTC、摩托罗拉(Motorola)等制造商利用这一操作系统，让智能手机在全球普及起来。
By 2009, smartphone growth began exploding while personal computer growth had peaked. While it’s true that Microsoft’s Windows is still the dominant desktop operating system — and, for many uses, smartphones can’t substitute for desktops — Google’s Android has become the most popular operating system over all, while Apple’s Mac and iOS garner the overwhelming share of the profits.
2009年，智能手机开始呈爆炸式增长，而个人电脑的增长则已见顶。尽管微软的Windows仍然是占据主导地位的台式电脑操作系统——而且，对于许多用户来说，智能手机无法取代台式电脑——谷歌的Android整体而言已经成为最受欢迎的操作系统，而苹果的Mac和iOS则获得了最高的利润。
Some scholars of the antitrust prosecution against Microsoft argue that even if regulators did not anticipate Microsoft’s weaknesses, their oversight did constrain the anything-goes culture at the company, and that shift had a salutary effect on the market, eventually allowing for the rise of Apple, Google and the mobile economy. That claim is debatable; it seems just as likely, as others have argued, that it was precisely Microsoft’s strength in desktops that prevented it from developing a truly novel experience on mobile computers.
一些研究微软反垄断诉讼案的专家称，即使监管机构没有预见到微软的弱点，他们的监督也的确遏制了该公司百无禁忌的文化，这种转变对市场是有益的，最终让苹果、谷歌和移动经济得以崛起。这一说法存在争议；正如另外一些人所说，似乎同样可能的情况是，正是微软台式电脑业务的实力，阻碍了它开发出移动电脑上的真正新颖的体验。