Billy Gasparino and Jenna Dillon-Gasparino were savvy enough to wait out the housing boom of a decade ago as renters. Not until 2010, well into the bust, did they buy a house in the Venice neighborhood of Los Angeles, less than a mile from the beach, for $810,000.
十年前，比利·加斯帕里诺(Billy Gasparino)和詹娜·迪伦-加斯帕里诺(Jenna Dillon-Gasparino)还是租房一族时，很明智地选择在房市繁荣的时期按兵不动。直到2010年房市泡沫破灭时，他们才在洛杉矶的威尼斯(Venice)社区买了一套房，离海岸不到1英里（约合1.6公里），房价81万美元（约合人民币506万元）。
Only four years later, the couple see new signs of excess in the housing market and have decided to go back to renting. They are close to a deal to sell their house – for $1.35 million, a cool 67 percent gain.
仅仅时隔四年，夫妻俩看到房市显现出了过剩的新迹象，于是决定回归租房一族。他们就快要达成卖房交易了——房价135万美元（约合人民币843万元），收益率相当不错，高达67%。
“It just seems like the housing market came back so strongly, so fast, that maybe there’s a little bit of a bubble there,” said Mr. Gasparino, a 37-year-old baseball scout.
“感觉房市复苏得太快，太强劲，可能又有点泡沫了。”37岁的棒球球探加斯帕里诺说。
Their decision reflects a new reality in many of the nation’s largest metropolitan areas. An analysis by The New York Times finds that in the country’s most expensive places, including New York, the San Francisco Bay area and Los Angeles, buying a home again looks like a perilous investment, based on the relationship between their prices and rents or incomes. And in a longer list of areas, including Boston, Miami and Washington, prices have risen enough that buying is no longer the bargain it looked to be a few years ago.
这样的现实，存在于美国众多规模巨大的大都会区里。《纽约时报》的一项分析显示，从房价与租金或收入间的关系可以看出，在美国房价最高的地区——包括纽约、旧金山湾区和洛杉矶，买房又开始变得像一笔危险的投资。如果把范围稍加扩大，将波士顿、迈阿密和华盛顿也纳入考查范围内，这些地区的房价已经上涨到较高水平。购房不再像几年前那么实惠了。
The Times also created an online calculator that enables prospective buyers and renters to analyze their own decision. For example, for a typical person considering the purchase of a $500,000 house who expects to live there seven years, it might make more sense to rent if a similar place is available for $1,956 a month or less.
《纽约时报》还制作了一台在线计算器，能够让潜在购房者和租房者分析他们自己的决定。比如说，如果想买一套50万美元（约合人民币312万元）的房子，并打算住七年，那么租一套条件类似、月租1956元（约合人民币1.2万元）的房子或许更加明智。
“A lot of these coastal markets look overvalued compared to rents,” said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody’s Analytics. “In these markets, it seems generally more attractive to rent than to buy, even as the national market is broadly well balanced.”
“与租金相比，很多沿海市场的房价看起来都被高估了，”穆迪分析(Moody's Analytics)的首席经济学家马克·赞迪(Mark Zandi)说，“总体上讲，在这些市场，租房似乎比买房更有吸引力，虽然全国市场大致是均衡的。”
For example, Venice, where the Gasparinos are selling their house, has benefited from an influx of tech industry, including from the opening of Google’s Los Angeles office there in 2011. “You have engineers, visual effects artists, people making 2, 3, 400 thousand dollars a year coming in,” said Tami Pardee, principal of Pardee Properties real estate brokerage in Venice. “The problem I’m having is inventory. There isn’t enough of it.”
比如说，在加斯帕里诺卖房的地区——威尼斯，当地房市受益于科技企业的大量涌入，2011年谷歌(Google)在洛杉矶开设办公室就是一个例子。“搬进来的都是些工程师、视觉特效师，这些人的薪水是20万、30万、40万美元（约合人民币125万、187万、250万元）的级别，”威尼斯房地产经纪公司Pardee Properties的董事长塔米·帕蒂(Tami Pardee)说，“我面临的问题是存量房不足。”
Thanks to low interest rates and home prices that remain 13 percent below their 2006 peak nationally, buying continues to look like a good deal in much of the country. In the once-frothy markets of Phoenix, Las Vegas and Orlando, Fla., for example, the typical home price is still 30 to 40 percent below 2006 levels, even more if one accounts for inflation.
由于利率偏低，而且房价依然比2006年的全国峰值低13%，买房在美国的很多地区似乎依然是笔划算的交易。比如在凤凰城、拉斯维加斯、佛罗里达州的奥兰多等地，曾经存在较大的房市泡沫，而如今，这些地方的一般房价依然比2006年的水平低30%到40%。若把通胀因素考虑在内，两者的差距甚至更大。
But across much of California and the Northeast, prices are now high enough that the costs of owning a home – property taxes, repairs, fees to real-estate agents and mortgage interest – may outweigh the financial benefits, including the tax break.
但是，在加利福尼亚州和东北方的许多地区，房价现在已经处于较高水平了。包括房产税、装修费、中介费和按揭利率在内的买房成本，可能会超过由此带来的经济利益，包括减税优惠。
It is the latest change in a yo-yo pattern over the past decade. From 2004 to 2006, the math overwhelmingly favored renting rather than buying across most of the country, even as many Americans mistakenly decided that home prices could never fall. From 2009 to 2011, buying was an extraordinary deal in most of the country. Even the markets that have experienced huge price increases are far from the clear-cut bubble conditions of the mid-2000s, but they’re inching closer with every bidding war.
上述现象，反映出了房价的最新走势。近十年来，房价忽上忽下，从2004年到2006年，美国大部分地区的数据，都是压倒性地利于租房而非买房，尽管许多美国人误以为房价永远不会下跌。而从2009年到2011年，买房在美国大部分地区都是非常划算的交易。即使是在房价大幅上涨的市场，也远未像2005年前后那样，呈现出明显的泡沫态势。只不过，每一桩房价竞购战，都将市场向泡沫推近一步。
Since the start of 2011, prices have risen 33 percent in the San Francisco area, 30 percent in Miami, 24 percent in Los Angeles — and even more in some of the most desirable neighborhoods within those areas. In the San Francisco Bay area, home of the sharpest recent price increases, the sale price of a home is about 20 times what it would cost to rent a home of the same size for a year. That ratio, based on an analysis of data from Zillow, is the same as in 2003, when the San Francisco real estate market had yet to become an out-of-control bubble but was well on its way there.
从2011年初开始，旧金山的房价上涨了33%，迈阿密的房价上涨30%，洛杉矶的房价升高24%——在这些地方的部分热门社区，房价甚至涨得更高。旧金山湾区是房价上升幅度最大的，一套住宅的售价大约相当于同等大小的出租型房屋全年租金的20倍。该比率是Zillow经过一项数据分析得出的结果。而2003年时的比率与之相同，当时旧金山房市的泡沫尚未破灭，但已离失控不远。
When low mortgage rates are taken into account, buying a home in San Francisco looks somewhat more attractive — but with a 10 percent down payment and prevailing interest rates, buying a home is 6 percent more expensive than renting a place of the same size, the same premium for buying as there was during the dot-com boom in 1999. Just two years ago, buying in the San Francisco area was 24 percent cheaper than renting an equivalent place.
由于按揭利率较低，买房在旧金山似乎更具吸引力——但考虑到10%的首付和现行利率，买一套住宅与租一套同等大小的出租房屋相比，开支要多出6%，这与1999年互联网泡沫时期的水平相当。仅仅两年前，在旧金山地区，买一套住宅与租一套同等大小的房屋相比，价格还要低24%。
The potentially overvalued markets are the result of three forces. They are taking place in local economies that suffered only minimally during the recession that began in 2008 and have experienced strong job growth since then.
房市之所以存在被高估的可能，是由三方面因素造成的。这一现象发生在那些在2008年的经济衰退中受到的冲击微乎其微、此后又迎来了强劲就业增长的地区。
They are fueled further by the low-interest rate policies that are aimed at boosting the overall national economy but don’t discriminate based on geography. Even as San Francisco’s housing market is at risk of overheating, buyers there get the same ultralow mortgage rates engineered by the Federal Reserve as home buyers in depressed Detroit or Cleveland do.
这一现象，随着低利率政策的推行进一步加剧。低利率政策旨在使国民经济总体得到提振，但在实行过程中并没有根据不同地区的情况有所区分。即使旧金山房市存在过热的风险，购房者依然能享受到美联储制定的超低按揭利率，与经济一蹶不振的底特律和克利夫兰的买家，享受的待遇是一样的。
And the new booms are taking place in markets where restrictions on building hinder developers from responding to rising demand by constructing more housing. That distinguishes the major California markets from the strong local economies in Texas and elsewhere. The Dallas area and the San Francisco area added similar numbers of jobs last year, but local governments in Dallas issued permits for nearly four times as many new housing units.
此外，有些市场之所以迎来新的繁荣期，是因为建设活动受到了限制，开发商难以建造更多住房，来满足日益增长的市场需求。这一点，就是加利福尼亚州的主要市场与德克萨斯州等强劲经济区的区别所在。达拉斯地区和旧金山地区去年的就业增长量相似，但是，达拉斯当地政府新发放的建设许可证所能增加的住宅套数，几乎达到了旧金山地区的四倍。
There are important caveats, of course. The wisdom of buying versus renting depends heavily on each person’s financial situation, plans and preferences. And the cliché about all real estate being local holds; each neighborhood can have its own unique dynamics in the for-sale and for-rent housing sectors that must be considered.
当然，还有一些重要提示需要注意。买房与租房的智慧很大程度上取决于个人的经济状况、计划和喜好。各地的房市各有不同，这样的老生常谈是有道理的；每一个社区的待售和出租房源都表现出独特的变化趋势，这一点也必须加以考虑。
Home buyers in even the highest-priced markets can take some solace in the fact that prices aren’t as outlandishly high relative to rents as they were in 2006. But they should also know that homes are also priced richly enough as to leave no room for error.
即使是在价格最高的市场里，房价与租金间的联系，也不像2006年那么夸张了，这可以让购房者得到些许宽慰。不过购房者还应注意，现在的房价水平已然不可小觑，没有给他们留下多少犯错的余地。
It’s a bit like the current consensus opinion of economists on the value of the stock market: Not in a bubble, necessarily, but certainly expensive enough to make a buyer wary. While home prices may stay high for months or years to come, buyers are leaving themselves vulnerable to a decline toward more normal historical valuations. Renters avoid that risk, even if they also don’t get some of the upside if the bull market for houses in places like Santa Monica, Nob Hill and TriBeCa has longer to run.
关于存量房市场的价格问题，有一种观点几乎已成为经济学家的共识：当前的房价不一定有泡沫，但肯定已经够高，足以让购房者警觉了。尽管房价可能在接下来的几个月或几年里保持较高水平，但是购房者依然面临着风险——房价有可能下跌到更接近正常水平的历史数值。租房者则能规避这样的风险，只不过，如果圣莫尼卡(Santa Monica)、诺布山(Nob Hill) 和翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的住房牛市能持续更长时间，他们也就得不到什么好处了。
“If you thought home values in the Bay Area or Southern California were such that we might see another housing correction, that radically starts to advantage rental housing,” said Stan Humphries, Zillow’s chief economist, who argues that current prices are reasonably well justified, while acknowledging that prices are high enough to leave buyers exposed.
“如果你觉得湾区或南加州的房价已经上涨到需要校正的地步，那么形势很快就会倒向出租住宅。”Zillow的首席经济学家斯坦·汉弗莱斯(Stan Humphries)说。他认为，当前的房价很合理，但他也承认，这样的房价水平已经足以让购房者面临风险。
The real estate market in Venice, where the Gasparinos are selling their house to lock in the gains, shows the forces shaping the new boom markets. Besides the tech employment there on Silicon Beach, as the local boosters put it, the supply of housing can’t expand to meet that rising demand. The area is filled with block after block of low-slung houses and apartments, and density restrictions stand in the way of constructing tall buildings.
在威尼斯的房产市场里——也就是加斯帕里诺夫妻卖掉房产、赚取收益的地方，新的繁荣迹象正在显现。正如当地售房者所说，除了涌入硅谷海滩(Silicon Beach)的科技企业员工外，住房供应量无法扩大，难以满足日益上升的需求。当地已有一片又一片街区的低矮住房和公寓，密度限制标准也制约了高楼大厦的建设。
That combination has been enough to send the median price per square foot of homes that are sold up 49 percent since late 2010 in the 90291 ZIP code, according to Zillow, and the median rent per square foot up 23 percent in the same span.
两个因素交织在一起，共同推高了邮政编码为90291的威尼斯地区的房价。根据Zillow的调查，与2010年末相比，威尼斯当地住宅的单位面积售价中值上涨了49%，单位面积租金中值上涨了23%。
“When we bought four years ago after the crash, the market was dead, and it felt like everybody learned their lesson,” Mr. Gasparino said. “It just went back so fast.”
“四年前，我们等经济衰退结束后买下了房子，当时市场死气沉沉的，感觉所有人都吸取了教训，”加斯帕里诺说，“没想到房市这么快就回升了。”