You know, I actually used to be so worried about not having a body, but now I truly love it … I’m not tethered to time and space in the way that I would be if I was stuck inside a body that’s inevitably going to die. — Samantha, in “Her”
你知道吗，实际上，我曾非常担忧自己没有躯体，不过现在，我真的爱上了这一点......如此一来，我就不会像人那样，被塞进一具注定要死去的躯体里，为时间和空间所牵绊。——《她》(Her)里面的萨曼莎(Samantha)。
Set in the not-too-distant future, Spike Jonze’s film “Her” explores the romantic relationship between Samantha, a computer program, and Theodore Twombly, a human being. Though Samantha is not human, she feels the pangs of heartbreak, intermittently longs for a body and is bewildered by her own evolution. She has a rich inner life, complete with experiences and sensations.
斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)导演的电影《她》的场景被设定在不太遥远的未来，探索了电脑程序萨曼莎和人类西奥多·通布利(Theodore Twombly)之间的浪漫关系。虽然萨曼莎不是人类，她却能感觉到心碎的阵痛、对躯体时断时续的渴望和对自己的进化所产生的费解。她有一个丰富的内心世界，有着完整的体验和知觉。
“Her” raises two questions that have long preoccupied philosophers. Are nonbiological creatures like Samantha capable of consciousness — at least in theory, if not yet in practice? And if so, does that mean that we humans might one day be able to upload our own minds to computers, perhaps to join Samantha in being untethered from “a body that’s inevitably going to die”?
《她》提出了两个长期困扰哲学家的问题。像萨曼莎这样的非生物有产生意识的能力吗——如果不提现实中的情况，那么它们在理论上有这种能力吗？如果有，这是否意味着，有朝一日，人类能把自己的意识上传给电脑，也许还能加入萨曼莎的行列，远离“一具注定要死去的躯体”？
This is not mere speculation. The Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University has released a report on the technological requirements for uploading a mind to a machine. A Defense Department agency has funded a program, Synapse, that is trying to develop a computer that resembles a brain in form and function. The futurist Ray Kurzweil, now a director of engineering at Google, has even discussed the potential advantages of forming friendships, “Her”-style, with personalized artificial intelligence systems. He and others contend that we are fast approaching the “technological singularity,” a point at which artificial intelligence, or A.I., surpasses human intelligence, with unpredictable consequences for civilization and human nature.
这不只是揣测。牛津大学人类未来研究所(The Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University)发布了一份报告，阐述了向机器上传意识的技术要求。美国国防部下属的一个机构资助了一个名为Synapse的项目，该项目正在设法研发一台从形态到功能都类似于人脑的电脑。未来学家、现在谷歌(Google)担任工程总监的雷·库日韦尔(Ray Kurzweil)甚至曾讨论过和像“她”那样的人性化人工智能系统建立友谊的潜在优势。他和一些人主张，我们正在迅速接近“技术奇点”，在这个点上，人工智能，即AI，将会超越人类的智能，这将给人类文明和人性带来不可预测的影响。
Is all of this really possible? Not everyone thinks so. Some people argue that the capacity to be conscious is unique to biological organisms, so that even superintelligent A.I. programs would be devoid of conscious experience. If this view is correct, then a relationship between a human being and a program like Samantha, however intelligent she might be, would be hopelessly one-sided. Moreover, few humans would want to join Samantha, for to upload your brain to a computer would be to forfeit your consciousness.
这一切真的有可能吗？不是所有人都这么想。一些人辩称，唯有生物有机体能产生意识。因此，即使是超级智能的人工智能程序都不可能拥有意识体验。如果这种观点正确，那么无论萨曼莎有多智能，人类和类似于她这样的程序之间的关系，都只能是毫无希望的一厢情愿而已。不仅如此，没有几个人愿意加入萨曼莎的行列，因为向电脑上传你的大脑，会让你丧失意识。
This view, however, has been steadily losing ground. Its opponents point out that our best empirical theory of the brain holds that it is an information-processing system and that all mental functions are computations. If this is right, then creatures like Samantha can be conscious, for they have the same kind of minds as ours: computational ones. Just as a phone call and a smoke signal can convey the same information, thought can have both silicon- and carbon-based substrates. Indeed, scientists have produced silicon-based artificial neurons that can exchange information with real neurons. The neural code increasingly seems to be a computational one.
然而，这种观点正在稳步地失去支持者。它的反对者指出，关于大脑的最佳经验理论认为，大脑是一个信息处理系统，大脑的所有思考功能都是计算。如果这种理论是正确的，那么像萨曼莎这样的生物就可以是有意识的，因为它们拥有和我们一样的大脑，会计算的大脑。就像电话和信号烟能传达相同的信息一样，思维既可以来自以硅为基础的酶作用物，也可以来自以碳为基础的酶作用物。事实上，科学家已经发明出了用硅做的人工神经元，它们能与真正的神经元交换信息。神经代码似乎越来越像是一个计算代码了。
You might worry that we could never be certain that programs like Samantha were conscious. This concern is akin to the longstanding philosophical conundrum known as the “problem of other minds.” The problem is that although you can know that you yourself are conscious, you cannot know for sure that other people are. You might, after all, be witnessing behavior with no accompanying conscious component.
你或许会担心，我们可能永远都无法确定，像萨曼莎这样的程序是有意识的。这个担心与哲学领域长期以来的“他心问题”这个难题类似。问题是，尽管你能知道自己是有意识的，但你无法确切地知道其他人也是有意识的。毕竟，你亲眼看到的行为可能并没有相应地有意识的内容。
In the face of the problem of other minds, all you can do is note that other people have brains that are structurally similar to your own and conclude that since you yourself are conscious, others are likely to be conscious as well. When confronted with a high-level A.I. program like Samantha, your predicament wouldn’t be all that different, especially if that program had been engineered to work like the human brain. While we couldn’t be certain that an A.I. program genuinely felt anything, we can’t be certain that other humans do, either. But it would seem probable in both cases.
面对他心问题时，你只能指出，其他人的大脑结构与你自己的相似，并得出因为你自己是有意识的，所以其他人可能也是有意识的这个结论。面对像萨曼莎这样的高级人工智能程序时，你的处境可能没有太多不同，尤其是如果那个程序的设计就是为了让它能像人脑那样工作。我们可能无法确定人工智能程序真的能感知，但我们也无法确信其他人类能感知。不过，人工智能程序和其他人类似乎都很可能有感觉。
If the Samanthas of the future will have inner lives like ours, however, I suspect that we will not be able to upload ourselves to computers to join them in the digital universe. To see why, imagine that Theodore wants to upload himself. Imagine, furthermore, that uploading involves (a) scanning a human brain in such exacting detail that it destroys the original and (b) creating a software model that thinks and behaves in precisely the same way as the original did. If Theodore were to undergo this procedure, would he succeed in transferring himself into the digital realm? Or would he, as I suspect, succeed only in killing himself, leaving behind a computational copy of his mind — one that, adding insult to injury, would date his girlfriend?
然而，即便未来的萨曼莎们像我们一样拥有内心世界，我怀疑我们还是无法把自己上传到电脑上，和他们一起生活在数字世界里。想知道为什么，试想西奥多想把自己上传到电脑上。此外，再试想，上传（首先）需要对人脑进行极其细致的扫描，这种细致扫描会毁坏原来的人脑，（其次）会创造一个与原来的人脑的思考和行为方式一模一样的软件模型。如果西奥多经历了这个过程，他是否能成功地把自己转移到数字世界里去呢？还是正如我怀疑的那样，他只会成功地杀死自己，在电脑里留下他思维的副本——在伤口里撒盐的是，这个副本还会约会他的女友？
Ordinary physical objects follow a continuous path through space over time. For Theodore to transfer his mind into a computer program, however, his mind would not follow a continuous trajectory. His brain would be destroyed when the scan was made, and the information about his precise brain configuration would be sent to a computer, which could be miles away.
普通实体物品会沿着一个连续的途径穿越时空。然而，对西奥多来说，要把自己的思维转移到计算机程序中，他的思维并没有沿着一个持续的轨道。他的大脑会在扫描的过程中被毁，有关他脑部精确构造的信息会被传输给电脑，电脑则可能位于很远的地方。