AMERICAN and Iranian negotiators yesterday began a second round of talks in Geneva, seeking a deal on Iran’s nuclear program.
昨天，美国和伊朗两国的谈判代表在日内瓦开启第二轮谈判，希望就伊朗核计划达成一项协议。
If such an agreement were signed, it would represent an Iranian victory — and an American defeat. The Iranians would be able to maintain their nuclear program and continue to enrich uranium, while the Americans and their allies would loosen the economic siege on Iran and allow Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the economic oxygen needed to sustain his autocratic regime.
如若这样的协议得到签署，它将代表着伊朗的胜利——以及美国的失败。伊朗将得以维持自己的核计划，继续进行铀浓缩，而美国及其盟友将会放松对伊朗的经济围困，允许伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)获得维系其独裁政权所需的经济氧气。
Yes, Iran’s race to the bomb would be slowed down — but an accord would guarantee that it would eventually cross the finish line. The Geneva mind-set resembles a Munich mind-set: It would create the illusion of peace-in-our-time while paving the way to a nuclear-Iran-in-our-time.
是的，伊朗研制核弹的进程会被放缓，但这样一份协议必然会让伊朗最终实现目标。日内瓦心态和慕尼黑心态有相似之处：它会制造出一个我们身处和平年代的假象，实际上我们这是要迈向“核伊朗”年代。
But don’t blame President Obama. Indeed, this American defeat was set in motion long before he took office.
但不要把责任撇给奥巴马总统。实际上，美国的这场失败，在他上台之前很久就已初现端倪。
What three American presidents, four Israeli prime ministers and a dozen European leaders vowed would never happen is actually happening. What was not to be is almost a reality. The Iranian bomb is nearly here.
三任美国总统、四任以色列总理和十几位欧洲领导人之前承诺的永不会发生的事情，其实正在发生。曾经以为不会出现的事情几乎就是眼下的现实。伊朗核弹近在眼前。
Why wasn’t the West able to mobilize its political, economic and military resources in time to force Tehran to give up its nuclear ambition?
西方为何没能及时调动自己的政治、经济和军事资源，迫使伊朗放弃自己的核野心？
The answer may be described as a spelling error.
答案或许可以说是一个拼写错误。
After 9/11, the United States was determined to strike back, destroy terrorist sanctuaries and display its imperial might. President George W. Bush chose to do all of this in Afghanistan and Iraq. Afghanistan may have been a mistake, but it was an understandable one: Al Qaeda enjoyed the Taliban’s support and had found refuge in Taliban-controlled territory. But invading Iraq was an incomprehensible mistake, as there were no links between Saddam Hussein and the 19 terrorists who attacked New York and Washington in September 2001.
9·11过后，美国决心要进行反击，摧毁恐怖分子的落脚之地，展现其帝国威力。乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)选择把这一切都放在阿富汗和伊拉克进行。选择阿富汗可能是个错误，但尚可理解：基地组织(Al Qaeda)获得了塔利班的支持，且在塔利班控制的地区找到了庇护。然而，入侵伊拉克却是个令人费解的错误，因为萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)和2001年9月袭击纽约和华盛顿的那19名恐怖分子根本没有关系。
If Mr. Bush had decided to display American leadership and exercise American power by launching a diplomatic campaign against Iran rather than a military one against Iraq 10 years ago, the United States’ international standing would be far greater today.
如果布什当初决定，体现美国的领导地位、彰显美国实力的方式是对伊朗发起一场外交行动，而不是在10年前向伊拉克发起军事行动，美国今天的国际声望会高得多。
The Bush administration’s decision to go after Iraq rather than Iran was a fatal one, and the long-term consequences are only now becoming clear, namely a devastating American failure in the battle to prevent a nuclear Iran, reflected in Washington’s willingness to sign a deeply flawed agreement.
布什政府把目标锁定在伊拉克而非伊朗上是一个致命的决定，它的长期后果，即美国在这场阻止伊朗成为有核国家的战斗中的惨败，现在才变得清晰起来。华盛顿会愿意签署一项存在严重缺陷的协议，就是这种后果的反映。
Mr. Bush’s responsibility for the disaster now unfolding is twofold: He failed to target Iran a decade ago, and created a climate that made it very difficult to target Iran today. The Bush administration didn’t initiate a political-economic siege on Iran when it was weak, and Mr. Bush weakened America by exhausting its economic power and military might in a futile war. By the time American resolve was needed to fend off a genuine global threat, the necessary determination was no longer there. It had been wasted on the wrong cause.
布什应对这场正在上演的灾难负双重责任：一方面，十年前他未能把目标锁定在伊朗身上，另一方面，导致今天很难把伊朗作为目标的环境也是他一手造成的。布什政府未能在伊朗还很弱小的时候对其发起政治和经济包围，而且，布什在一场徒劳的战争中耗尽了美国的经济实力和军事力量，削弱了美国。到了必须要用美国的决心来抵御真正的全球威胁时，不可或缺的信心已不复存在。因为已经被浪费在错误的行动上了。
The correct way to confront the Iranian threat would have been to establish a broad coalition including Russia, the European Union, Sunni Arab countries, Israel and the United States. This would have placed Iran’s leaders in a real stranglehold and forced them to abandon their nuclear project — just as Libya did in 2003.
应对伊朗威胁的正确办法本应是建立一个包括俄罗斯、欧盟、逊尼派阿拉伯国家、以色列和美国在内的广泛联盟。这样就会真正对伊朗领导人构成压制，迫使他们放弃核计划，就像利比亚在2003年所做的那样。
The Republican Party could have done that in 2003 or 2005 or 2007. But Republican leaders squandered the opportunity. Worse still, the United States got bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan and that sucked all the oxygen out of America’s lungs. Mr. Bush passed on to Mr. Obama a nation that had lost much of the resolve it had possessed. When faced with a real threat to world peace, America’s will was spent. It had evaporated in the violent streets of Basra and Baghdad.
在2003年、2005年和2007年，共和党均有机会这么做。但共和党领袖错失良机。雪上加霜的是，美国在伊拉克和阿富汗陷入了困境，肺里的氧气都被吸光了。布什留给奥巴马的美国，跟往昔相比已经失去了相当一部分的决心。当世界和平真正受到威胁时，美国的意志已经消失殆尽，全都消磨在充满暴力的巴士拉和巴格达街头了。
Sure, Mr. Obama has made mistakes, too. After coming to office, he wasted time on a futile policy of engagement and then on ineffective sanctions. He ignored the British, French, Israelis, Egyptians and Saudis who warned him that he was being naïve and turned his back on the freedom-seeking Iranian masses in June 2009. When Mr. Obama finally endorsed assertive diplomacy and punitive sanctions in 2011 and 2012, it was too little, too late.
当然，奥巴马也有错。上台后，他把时间浪费在了徒劳的接触政策上，而后的制裁也是无效的。英国、法国、以色列、埃及和沙特阿拉伯曾提醒他不要太过天真，但他对此充耳不闻，还在2009年6月对寻求自由的伊朗民众置之不理。当奥巴马终于在2011年和2012年同意采取强硬的外交手段并施以惩罚性制裁时，已经为时已晚，于事无补。
But Mr. Obama was operating within the smoky ruins of the strategic disaster he had inherited.
但这个战略烂摊子是别人留给奥巴马的，他是在这堆废墟上展开行动的。
After Iraq, America is a traumatized nation, with a limited attention span for problems in the Middle East. The empire is weary. It has lost the ardor and wisdom needed to deal with the cruelest of the world’s regions and with the most dangerous of the world’s evil powers.
伊拉克战争过后，美国遭受重创，对中东问题的关注很有限。这个国家疲惫了。它已经失去了对付全世界最残酷的地区和最危险的邪恶力量所需的热情和智慧。
The Geneva agreement being negotiated is an illusion. The so-called moderate president of Iran, Hassan Rouhani, is an illusion, too. So is the hope that Iran’s supreme leader can be appeased. Because America missed the opportunity for assertive diplomacy, all the options now left on the table are dire ones.
正在谈判中的日内瓦协议是假象，伊朗所谓的温和派总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)是假象，伊朗最高领袖会息事宁人也是假象。因为美国错过了采取强硬外交手段的时机，现在剩下的都是些糟糕的选择。
Rather than pursuing a dangerous interim agreement, the West must insist that all the centrifuges in Iran stop spinning while a final agreement is negotiated. President Obama was right to demand a settlement freeze in the West Bank in 2009. Now he must demand a total centrifuge freeze in Iran.
西方必须坚持，在就最终协议进行谈判时，伊朗的所有离心机应停止转动，而不只是寻求一项危险的临时协议。奥巴马总统2009年要求停止在约旦河西岸建定居点是对的。现在，他必须要求伊朗的所有离心机停止工作。