It wasn’t always about the hot dogs. Originally, believe it or not, Labor Day actually had something to do with showing respect for labor.
过去，劳工节(Labor Day)和热狗没什么关系。不管你信不信，劳工节最初实际上是为了向劳工表达敬意。
Here’s how it happened: In 1894 Pullman workers, facing wage cuts in the wake of a financial crisis, went on strike — and Grover Cleveland deployed 12,000 soldiers to break the union. He succeeded, but using armed force to protect the interests of property was so blatant that even the Gilded Age was shocked. So Congress, in a lame attempt at appeasement, unanimously passed legislation symbolically honoring the nation’s workers.
当时情况是这样的：1894年普尔曼的工人进行罢工，抗议因经济危机而减薪——格罗弗·克利夫兰(Grover Cleveland)部署了1.2万名士兵来解散工会。他成功了，但如此悍然地动用武装力量来保护财产权益震动了那个镀金时代。为了充当和事佬，国会一致投票通过立法，象征性地向美国工人致敬。
It’s all hard to imagine now. Not the bit about financial crisis and wage cuts — that’s going on all around us. Not the bit about the state serving the interests of the wealthy — look at who got bailed out, and who didn’t, after our latter-day version of the Panic of 1893. No, what’s unimaginable now is that Congress would unanimously offer even an empty gesture of support for workers’ dignity. For the fact is that many of today’s politicians can’t even bring themselves to fake respect for ordinary working Americans.
现在很难想象这一切。不是说经济危机和减薪——我们正深陷其中。也不是说国家保护富人的利益——在现代版的1893大萧条中，看看是谁获救了，谁又没有得救。不，很难想象的是，当时的国会能意见统一地对工人的尊严表示支持，哪怕这是一个空洞的姿态。相较之下，现在很多政客甚至都不会假装尊重美国普通工薪族。
Consider, for example, how Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, marked Labor Day last year: with a Twitter post declaring “Today, we celebrate those who have taken a risk, worked hard, built a business and earned their own success.” Yep, he saw Labor Day as an occasion to honor business owners.
想一想，比如，众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎特(Eric Cantor)去年是这样纪念劳工节的：那天他在Twitter发帖子宣称，“今天，我们为那些承担风险，努力工作，建立企业并赢得成功的人们进行庆祝。”没错，他把劳工节视为向商界人士致敬的节日。
More broadly, consider the ever-widening definition of those whom conservatives consider parasites. Time was when their ire was directed at bums on welfare. But even at the program’s peak, the number of Americans on “welfare” — Aid to Families With Dependent Children — never exceeded about 5 percent of the population. And that program’s far less generous successor, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, reaches less than 2 percent of Americans.
更广义地说，想一想那些被保守人士称为寄生虫的人，他们的定义在不断扩大。曾几何时，保守派的怒火直指那些依靠福利系统的不劳而获者。但即使在福利保障的高峰期，美国享受“福利”的人数——未成年子女家庭援助计划(Aid to Families With Dependent Children)的受益者——从未超过人口的5%。远没有这个计划慷慨，但在后来取而代之的计划——贫困家庭临时救助计划(Temporary Assistance for Needy Families)仅惠及不到2%的美国人。
Yet even as the number of Americans on what we used to consider welfare has declined, the number of citizens the right considers “takers” rather than “makers” — people of whom Mitt Romney complained, “I’ll never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives” — has exploded, to encompass almost half the population. And the great majority of this newly defined army of moochers consists of working families that don’t pay income taxes but do pay payroll taxes (most of the rest are elderly).
尽管能够享有我们一度视为福利的美国人的人数在减少，但被右派视为“索取者”而非“创造者”的人群——米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)曾抱怨 “我没办法说服他们去承担个人责任，照顾自己的生活”——却猛增，达到几乎一半人口。这新近定义的揩油大军中多数是工薪阶层家庭，他们虽不缴纳所得税，但缴纳工资税（剩余人中多数则为老年人）。
How can someone who works for a living be considered the moral equivalent of a bum on welfare? Well, part of the answer is that many people on the right engage in word games: they talk about how someone doesn’t pay income taxes, and hope that their listeners fail to notice the word “income” and forget about all the other taxes lower-income working Americans pay.
靠工作养家糊口的人怎能在道义上被视为等同于依靠福利系统的不劳而获者呢？也许部分答案在于很多右派人士擅长的文字游戏：他们讲到有些人不交所得税时，希望听众忽略“所得”二字，从而一笔勾销美国低收入工薪阶层缴纳的所有其他税费。
But it is also true that modern America, while it has pretty much eliminated traditional welfare, does have other programs designed to help the less well-off — notably the earned-income tax credit, food stamps and Medicaid. The majority of these programs’ beneficiaries are either children, the elderly or working adults — this is true by definition for the tax credit, which only supplements earned income, and turns out in practice to be true of the other programs. So if you consider someone who works hard trying to make ends meet, but also gets some help from the government, a “taker,” you’re going to have contempt for a very large number of American workers and their families.
但现代美国在基本消灭了传统福利的同时，确实也设立了其他项目来帮助低收入者——引人注意的有劳动所得税抵扣计划(the earned-income tax credit)，食品券(food stamp)和医疗补助计划(Medicaid)。这些计划多数的受益人非老即幼，或为有工作的成年人——根据税费抵扣的定义，这是对的，因为它仅仅补贴工资收入；而在实际操作中，其他计划的情况也是如此。所以，如果你把靠努力工作维持生计，但同时接受一些政府帮助的人视为“索取者”，那你要鄙视的就是一大批美国工人和他们的家人了。
Oh, and just wait until Obamacare kicks in, and millions more working Americans start receiving subsidies to help them purchase health insurance.
对了，等到奥巴马医改计划(Obamacare)开始实施，又得有几百万的美国工薪族开始依靠补贴的帮助来购买医疗保险了。
You might ask why we should provide any aid to working Americans — after all, they aren’t completely destitute. But the fact is that economic inequality has soared over the past few decades, and while a handful of people have stratospheric incomes, a far larger number of Americans find that no matter how hard they work, they can’t afford the basics of a middle-class existence — health insurance in particular, but even putting food on the table can be a problem. Saying that they can use some help shouldn’t make us think any less of them, and it certainly shouldn’t reduce the respect we grant to anyone who works hard and plays by the rules.
你可能会问，我们为什么要给美国工薪族提供补助呢——毕竟，他们并非一贫如洗。但事实是，在过去的几十年间，经济不平等现象愈发突显。在少数人的收入飞升至平流层时，却有更多的美国人发现，无论如何勤奋，还是无法负担中产阶级生活的基本条件——特别是医疗保险，甚至吃饭都可能成问题。他们要求得到一些帮助并不应该让我们瞧不起他们，当然也丝毫不应减少我们对于努力工作，遵规守法的人的尊重。
But obviously that’s not the way everyone sees it. In particular, there are evidently a lot of wealthy people in America who consider anyone who isn’t wealthy a loser — an attitude that has clearly gotten stronger as the gap between the 1 percent and everyone else has widened. And such people have a lot of friends in Washington.
但显然这不是所有人的看法。特别是，在美国，明显有很多富人视不够富裕的人为失败者——随着那1%和其他人之间的鸿沟日益加深，这个看法进一步得到巩固。而这样的人往往在华盛顿人脉甚广。
So, this time around will we be hearing anything from Mr. Cantor and his colleagues suggesting that they actually do respect people who work for a living? Maybe. But the one thing we’ll know for sure is that they don’t mean it.
那么，这次我们会听到坎特和他的同事们说点什么，来表示自己其实尊重靠工作谋生的人吗？也许。但我们确定的一点就是，他们心里不是这么想的。