As the years passed, Judy Sheridan’s mother, Helen Stoltz, became less and less able to care for herself.
随着时间流逝，朱迪·谢里登(Judy Sheridan)的母亲海伦·斯托尔茨(Helen Stoltz)变得越来越无法照顾自己了。
Now 99, Mrs. Stoltz resided in an assisted living facility in the Bronx, where she had a one-bedroom — with meals and other services — for around $3,600 a month.
现年99岁的斯托尔茨住在布朗克斯区（Bronx，纽约市最北端的一个区——译注）的一家敬老院里，她在那里有一套单卧室公寓，提供伙食和其它服务，每个月的费用大约为3600美元（约合人民币21898元）。
Ms. Sheridan, an interior designer (sheridaninteriorsinc.com), called her mother three times a day and visited once or twice a week, taking the subway from her combination home and office in Midtown.
从事室内设计师的谢里登(sheridaninteriorsinc.com)，每天会给母亲打三次电话，并且每周会从她位于中城区(Midtown)的住宅兼办公室的家里，搭乘地铁去看望母亲一两次。
But the services weren’t quite right for someone with Mrs. Stoltz’s condition, vascular dementia. She rarely went on the organized shopping trips and excursions. “You have to remember to get to the lobby and get on the bus,” Ms. Sheridan said. “That’s where my mother was really faltering.”
但敬老院的服务对斯托尔茨这样的血管型失智症患者来说，并不是十分合适。她很少参加有组织的购物旅行或远足。“你得记住要到门厅集合，再登上巴士，”谢里登说，“我母亲实在行动不便。”
Mrs. Stoltz had additional help at bedtime, but hiring an aide for daytime hours was expensive and still not ideal. “The two of them would be staring into space,” Ms. Sheridan said. “My mother is not good at conversation these days.”
斯托尔茨在就寝时间会得到额外的照顾，但如果白天也雇一位看护，开销就太大了，而且也并不理想。“他们俩待在一起只会干瞪眼，”谢里登说，“我母亲现在已经不太善于攀谈了。”
So Ms. Sheridan resolved to find a two-bedroom house for herself and her mother. They needed a yard, because Mrs. Stoltz likes to be outdoors.
所以，谢里登决定为母亲和自己找一所有两间卧室的住宅。他们需要一个院子，因为斯托尔茨喜欢到外面走走。
They also required an entrance with few steps. With a top price of around $400,000, Ms. Sheridan went on the hunt a little over a year ago for a two-family, intending to have an income-producing tenant.
他们还要求门口不要有台阶。于是，在一年多以前，谢里登怀着40万美元（约合人民币243.75万元）封顶的期望，开始寻找一处两家共用式住宅，打算再招进一位给她交租的房客。
She focused on the Bronx, where housing prices were comparatively low, and where her mother’s doctors were.
她把范围集中在布朗克斯区，那里的房价相对较低，而且她母亲的医生也在那里。
But finding an easily accessible house and yard proved difficult. Most of the houses she saw were unsuitable in many ways. Ms. Sheridan assumed that two-family houses would be two side-by-side units, but what she came across was one unit atop another. The owner’s apartment was typically upstairs, sometimes with an exterior spiral staircase to the yard. Ground-floor apartments were usually small studios or one-bedrooms. Many places were in bad shape.
但是要找到一所进出方便的宅院，并不是件容易的事。她看过的大多数房屋，多少都有些不太合适。谢里登认为两家共用式住宅，应该是并排的两个单位，但她遇到的却是上下两个单元。房东的公寓一般在楼上，有时候外面会有一段旋转楼梯通到院子里。而底层公寓通常是面积较小的开间，或者单卧室公寓。很多地方的房型都很差。
Last year Ms. Sheridan visited an upholstery shop she had heard about, Custom Design Studio, on Bruckner Boulevard in Mott Haven. The owners directed her to Allison Jaffe of Key Real Estate Services.
去年，谢里登到她早就听说过的一家家居装潢用品店Custom Design Studio逛了一遭，就位于莫特黑文社区(Mott Haven)布鲁克纳大道(Bruckner Boulevard )。几位店主都介绍她去找房地产服务公司Key Real Estate Services的艾莉森·杰斐(Allison Jaffe)。 
“I was concerned about what was available in their price range and about finding appropriate living space for them,” Ms. Jaffe said. A lot of sellers were “overreaching on their asking prices,” and reluctant to negotiate.
“我关心的是，在他们所期望的价格区间里有哪些房产，以及怎样为他们找到一个合适的居住地，”杰斐说，“很多卖家都要价过高”，而且不愿议价。
Last fall the women went to Throgs Neck to see a suitable place — a detached two-family Cape Cod, converted from a one-family. The listing price was $439,000. Ms. Sheridan offered $370,000, then $385,000. But, concerned about the lengthy bus-to-train or express-bus commute to Midtown, she declined to offer more.
去年秋天，这两位女人前往斯罗格斯内克社区(Throgs Neck )看一处合适的地方——一栋独立的两家共用式住宅，那是一处科德角式样的房屋(Cape Cod)，由单户式住宅改造而来。这栋房屋的售价为43.9万美元（约合人民币267.52万元），谢里登出价37万美元（约合人民币225.47万元），然后又加价到38.5万美元（约合人民币234.61万元）。但是，考虑到去曼哈顿中城的通勤路途过长，中途还要巴士转火车或坐特快专线，她就拒绝了再出更高的价格。
A house-over-a-store situation arose at a mixed-use brick building on East Tremont Avenue in Schuylerville. A steep staircase led to the three-bedroom residential unit, but the owner had installed a stair lift in front. What they were seeking for Mrs. Stolz was access to the backyard, but as Ms. Jaffe reasoned, “If you can put a lift in the front, you can put a lift in the back.”
在维尔社区(Schuylerville)的东翠蒙特大道(East Tremont Avenue)旁，一栋混合用途的砖砌建筑中，有一套建于商铺上的住宅。虽然有一段陡峭的楼梯通往这套带有三间卧室的住宅单元，但是房东在前庭安了一个座椅电梯。她们还要为斯托尔茨寻找进入后院的途径，但杰斐推测，“如果你能在前面安装座椅电梯，那么也能在后面安上一个。”
The asking price was $469,000. “I absolutely wanted it,” Ms. Sheridan said. She looked forward to updating the interior. As for the chair lift, “Mother enjoyed riding up and down in it.”
这栋房屋的要价是46.9万美元（约合人民币285.98万元）。“我太想把它买下来了，”谢里登说。她打算更新一下内部装修。至于那部座椅电梯，“妈妈很喜欢坐在里面上下楼。”
But she would need a commercial loan, which required a larger down payment and had a higher interest rate than a conventional mortgage. The purchase wasn’t financially feasible.
但她需要申请商业贷款，因此要求支付一大笔首付款，而且利率比普通的按揭更高。这笔买卖在经济上并不可行。
Another opportunity came in Allerton, where a semi-attached two-family house, in need of renovation, was listed for $449,000. The two-bedroom lower unit was larger than most and accessible through a door beneath the front stairs. Ms. Sheridan’s offer of around $400,000 was declined. The seller took the house off the market.
另一次机会出现在阿勒顿社区(Allerton)，那里有一栋半独立的两家共用式住宅，售价44.9万美元（约合人民币273.78万元），需要翻修。这栋房屋楼下的双卧室单元比大多数公寓面积更大，可以从前庭楼梯下的一扇门进入。谢里登出价大约为40万美元（约合人民币243.9万元），但遭到了拒绝。随后卖家便将这栋房屋从市场中撤掉了。
“He changed his mind and that was it,” Ms. Sheridan said.
“他改变了主意，就是这样。”谢里登说道。
After nearly a year, she decided to give up the hunt and leave her mother where she was. “I said O.K., I’m done,” she recalled. “I cannot go through this emotional-roller-coaster thing anymore.”
将近一年之后，她决定放弃找房，就让母亲待在原来的地方。“我说，好吧，我受够了，”她回忆道，“我再也经受不了这种心情像坐过山车一样的事了。”
Late last winter, Ms. Jaffe contacted her about a place in Soundview, near Parkchester. This one was a bungalow, lacking a rental unit. Ms. Sheridan didn’t want to bother looking, but she went, getting lost on the way.
但是去年冬末，杰斐又联系上她，商谈关于桑德韦社区(Soundview)靠近帕克切斯特(Parkchester)的一处地方。那是一栋单层的住宅，缺少一套可供出租的单元。谢里登连看都懒得去看，但她还是去了，尽管在去的路上还迷了路。
She was amazed to find almost everything she wanted. The house had three bedrooms, a fenced yard and even a dishwasher, something oddly hard to find.
她惊讶地找到了她想要的一切。这栋房屋带有三间卧室，一个有篱笆的院子，甚至还有一个洗碗机。这样的地方千载难逢。
“Judy was hesitant because this house was listed at $325,000 and there was no income potential,” Ms. Jaffe said. “But she walked in and said, ‘This is it.’ ”
“得知这栋房屋售价32.5万美元（约合人民币198.17万元），而且不能带来潜在的房租收入后，朱迪很犹豫，”杰斐说，“但她在走进房间以后说，‘就是这里了’。”
Ms. Sheridan bought the place for $295,000. She and Mrs. Stoltz arrived in the summer. The early days were rough, while her mother got used to things.
谢里登以29.5万美元（约合人民币179.88万元）的价格买下了此地。她和斯托尔茨在夏天搬了进去。开始一段时间，她的母亲需要适应新的环境，日子过得有些辛苦。
Ms. Sheridan still works out of her Midtown home office a few days a week. Meanwhile, Mrs. Stoltz now has plenty to do. Even small chores, like emptying the dishwasher, “give her a sense of purpose and mission,” Ms. Sheridan said.
谢里登每周仍有几天需要在中城区的商住公寓里工作。与此同时，斯托尔茨现在有很多事情要忙，甚至是一些琐碎的小事，比如清空洗碗机，“这让她有一种使命感和目标意识，”谢里登说道。
The neighborhood, largely Bangladeshi, feels like the suburbs, Ms. Sheridan said, with welcoming neighbors and “shopping malls instead of fruit vendors.”
这片社区里住的基本上是孟加拉国人(Bangladeshi)，感觉就像住在乡村里，谢里登说。邻居们都热情好客，还有“大商场而不是水果摊贩”。
She added railings to the stairs outside, “but my mother is doing so well here and is getting stronger, so the stairs are not an issue at all.
她给外面的楼梯加了扶手，“但我母亲在这里生活得非常好，而且身体也强健多了，所以楼梯不再是什么问题。”
“There are days now when she doesn’t even take a nap, and that is so phenomenal for me. She is walking better, and she really helps me in the kitchen, and it’s a joyous thing to see.”
“现在，她有时候甚至不打盹儿，我觉得这也非常了不起。她走起路来更加稳健了，在厨房里也能实实在在给我帮上些忙，这真是一件令人欣喜的事。”