More than a million unemployed Americans are about to get the cruelest of Christmas “gifts.” They’re about to have their unemployment benefits cut off. You see, Republicans in Congress insist that if you haven’t found a job after months of searching, it must be because you aren’t trying hard enough. So you need an extra incentive in the form of sheer desperation.
美国的100多万失业者将得到一份最残酷的圣诞“礼物”。他们的失业救济将被切断。你看，国会的共和党人坚持认为，如果你找了几个月还没找到工作，那肯定是因为你不够努力。所以，你需要额外的刺激：那就是极端的紧迫感。
As a result, the plight of the unemployed, already terrible, is about to get even worse. Obviously those who have jobs are much better off. Yet the continuing weakness of the labor market takes a toll on them, too. So let’s talk a bit about the plight of the employed.
因此，失业者本来已经很糟糕的处境就要雪上加霜了。显然，有工作的人的生活会舒服很多。然而就业市场的持续低迷也会让他们蒙受损失。那么，让我们讨论一下有工作的劳动者面临着什么样的苦境吧。
Some people would have you believe that employment relations are just like any other market transaction; workers have something to sell, employers want to buy what they offer, and they simply make a deal. But anyone who has ever held a job in the real world — or, for that matter, seen a Dilbert cartoon — knows that it’s not like that.
有些人会告诉你，雇佣关系就像其他任何市场交易一样；劳动者出售某种东西，雇主们则要购买他们提供的东西，他们只不过是做一笔交易。但是，任何在真实世界工作过的人——或者看过漫画呆伯特(Dilbert)的人——都知道，实际上根本不是这么回事。
The fact is that employment generally involves a power relationship: you have a boss, who tells you what to do, and if you refuse, you may be fired. This doesn’t have to be a bad thing. If employers value their workers, they won’t make unreasonable demands. But it’s not a simple transaction. There’s a country music classic titled “Take This Job and Shove It.” There isn’t and won’t be a song titled “Take This Consumer Durable and Shove It.”
事实上，就业一般会涉及一种权力关系：你有一个老板，他告诉你该做什么，如果你拒绝，你可能被解雇。这并不一定就是坏事。如果雇主们重视自己的员工，就不会提出无理的要求。但这不是一个简单的交易。有一首乡村音乐的经典曲目叫做《我不要这工作，滚开》(Take This Job and Shove It)。然而目前没有，以后也绝不会有一首歌叫做《我不要这个耐用消费品，滚开》。
So employment is a power relationship, and high unemployment has greatly weakened workers’ already weak position in that relationship.
所以，雇佣是一种权力关系，而高失业率极大地削弱了工人在这一关系中已经处于弱势的地位。
We can actually quantify that weakness by looking at the quits rate — the percentage of workers voluntarily leaving their jobs (as opposed to being fired) each month. Obviously, there are many reasons a worker might want to leave his or her job. Quitting is, however, a risk; unless a worker already has a new job lined up, he or she doesn’t how long will it take to find a new job, and how that job will compare with the old one.
我们实际上可以把这种弱势地位量化，只需要看看辞职率——每月主动辞职的劳动者比例（不是被解雇）就可以了。显然，一名劳动者想要放弃自己的工作可能会有很多理由。不过，辞职有风险；除非一名劳动者已经找到了新工作，否则的话，他（她）不知道得花多长时间才能找到一份新工作，也不知道新工作与旧工作相比是更好还是更差。
And the risk of quitting is much greater when unemployment is high, and there are many more people seeking jobs than there are job openings. As a result, you would expect to see the quits rate rise during booms, fall during slumps — and, indeed, it does. Quits plunged during the 2007-9 recession, and they have only partially rebounded, reflecting the weakness and inadequacy of our economic recovery.
当失业率很高、求职者数量大于工作机会的时候，辞职的风险会大得多。因此，可以预计，经济繁荣时期辞职率会上升，经济低迷时会下降——事实的确如此。在2007年到2009年的经济衰退期间，辞职率大幅下降，目前仅有部分反弹，反映出经济复苏的不足和乏力。
Now think about what this means for workers’ bargaining power. When the economy is strong, workers are empowered. They can leave if they’re unhappy with the way they’re being treated and know that they can quickly find a new job if they are let go. When the economy is weak, however, workers have a very weak hand, and employers are in a position to work them harder, pay them less, or both.
现在想想这对劳动者的议价能力意味着什么吧。经济强劲时，劳动者就有了更多的筹码。如果他们对待遇不满意，而且知道如果自己被解雇很快能找到一份新工作的话，他们就可以选择辞职。可是，在经济低迷时，劳动者手里就没什么牌可打，雇主可以加重他们的工作负担，或者付给他们更少的工资，或者两者皆有。
Is there any evidence that this is happening? And how. The economic recovery has, as I said, been weak and inadequate, but all the burden of that weakness is being borne by workers. Corporate profits plunged during the financial crisis, but quickly bounced back, and they continued to soar. Indeed, at this point, after-tax profits are more than 60 percent higher than they were in 2007, before the recession began. We don’t know how much of this profit surge can be explained by the fear factor — the ability to squeeze workers who know that they have no place to go. But it must be at least part of the explanation. In fact, it’s possible (although by no means certain) that corporate interests are actually doing better in a somewhat depressed economy than they would if we had full employment.
是否有迹象表明现在正在出现这种情况？还有为什么会出现。就像我刚才所说，经济复苏乏力不足，而这种低迷的所有负担都落在了劳动者肩上。企业利润在金融危机期间大幅下降，但是很快出现反弹，而且不断飙升。实际上，目前，企业的税后盈利比2007年萧条之前的水平高了60%。我们不知道这种盈利增长有多少是来自于劳动者的恐慌因素——也就是企业可以压榨那些知道自己无处可去的劳动者。但这至少是部分原因。事实上，尽管无从确证，企业在经济低迷时期的盈利状况比充分就业时更好是有可能的。
What’s more, I don’t think it’s too much of a stretch to suggest that this reality helps explain why our political system has turned its backs on the unemployed. No, I don’t believe that there’s a secret cabal of C.E.O.’s plotting to keep the economy weak. But I do think that a major reason why reducing unemployment isn’t a political priority is that the economy may be lousy for workers, but corporate America is doing just fine.
此外，如果说这一事实解释了为何我们的政治制度对失业者漠不关心，我不会认为这很牵强。不，我并不认为企业高管们正密谋着如何保持经济低迷。但我认为，降低失业率之所以不是首要政治任务，一个主要原因是，对劳动者来说，经济可能很糟糕，但美国的企业过得挺好。
And once you understand this, you also understand why it’s so important to change those priorities.
一旦你理解了这一点，你就会明白，为什么改变那种目标的优先级安排是很重要的。
There’s been a somewhat strange debate among progressives lately, with some arguing that populism and condemnations of inequality are a diversion, that full employment should instead be the top priority. As some leading progressive economists have pointed out, however, full employment is itself a populist issue: weak labor markets are a main reason workers are losing ground, and the excessive power of corporations and the wealthy is a main reason we aren’t doing anything about jobs.
最近在进步派中出现了一种有点奇怪的辩论，一些人认为，民粹主义和对不公正的谴责是偏离正轨，充分就业才应该成为重中之重。然而，正如一些主要的进步派经济学家指出的那样，充分就业本身就是民粹主义的主张：低迷的劳动力市场是劳动者失去工作的主要原因，而企业和富人阶层过分强势，是我们对就业问题置之不理的主要原因。
Too many Americans currently live in a climate of economic fear. There are many steps that we can take to end that state of affairs, but the most important is to put jobs back on the agenda.
目前有太多美国人生活在对经济的恐慌中。我们可以采取很多行动来结束这种状态，不过，最重要的还是把就业问题重新提到议程上来。