The reassertion of Russia’s greatness has been a motif of Vladimir V. Putin’s presidency, and his projection of military might and cyberpower is in part why Russian-American relations are at their lowest point since the end of the Cold War.
弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)担任总统期间一心想要恢复俄罗斯的伟大荣光，而他对军事力量和网络攻击能力的投射，在某种程度上导致俄美关系处于冷战结束以来的最低点。
So the 150th anniversary on Thursday of Russia’s sale of Alaska to the United States — an event few Americans may notice — was a day of mourning for some hard-right Russian nationalists who see the transaction as a gigantic blunder by the ailing czarist empire, one that reverberates as the major powers vie for influence over the Arctic and its natural riches in an age of climate change.
因此，周四作为俄罗斯将阿拉斯加卖给美国的150周年纪念日——可能没什么美国人会注意到这件事——成了某些极右派民族主义者的哀悼日。他们认为这项交易是孱弱的沙皇帝国犯下的一大错误，其影响一直延续到今天这个气候变化时代——眼下，一些大国正竞相争夺对北极及其自然资源的控制权。
“If Russia was in possession of Alaska today, the geopolitical situation in the world would have been different,” Sergey Aksyonov, the prime minister of Crimea, told a Crimean television network this month.
“如果俄罗斯现在还拥有阿拉斯加，世界地缘政治局势就会是另一番景象，”本月，克里米亚总理谢尔盖·阿克肖诺夫(Sergei Aksyonov)告诉克里米亚一家电视网。
A niche military magazine, Military-Industrial Courier, recently ran a two-part article headlined “The Alaska We’ve Lost,” grumbling about what could have been.
小众军事杂志《军工信使》(Military-Industrial Courier)最近刊发了一篇分上下两部分、题为《我们失去的阿拉斯加》的文章，不满地设想了事情本来会是什么样子。
Even Sergey V. Lavrov, Russia’s foreign minister, was asked about Alaska in a recent interview with a Russian newspaper. “The anniversary may, of course, trigger diverse emotions,” he said. “But it is a good occasion to refresh memories of Russians’ contribution to exploration of the American continent.”
就连俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)最近接受俄罗斯一家报纸采访时，也被问到了与阿拉斯加有关的问题。“诚然，这个纪念日会激起各种各样的情绪，”他说。“但这是一个很好的机会，可以让我们重温俄罗斯人为探索美洲大陆作出的贡献。”
Mr. Putin, asked about Alaska during a call-in show that year, said “we don’t need to get worked up about this.” At the International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, Russia, on Thursday, however, he said that American activities in Alaska could destabilize world order. “What we do is contained locally, while what the U.S. does in Alaska, it does on the global level,” he said, calling the American development of a missile system there “one of the most pressing security issues.”
当年，在一个热线节目上被问及阿拉斯加相关问题的普京曾说，“我们没必要为此费神。”但他于周四在俄罗斯阿尔汉格尔斯克出席国际北极论坛(International Arctic Forum)时却表示，美国在阿拉斯加的活动可能会破坏世界秩序的稳定。“我们的所作所为的影响仅限于当地，而美国在阿拉斯加做的事情，会产生全球层面的影响，”他说。他还把美国在那里部署导弹系统称为“最紧迫的安全问题之一”。
No one, of course, is seriously suggesting that Russia retake Alaska like it annexed Crimea in 2014 from Ukraine. But the differences in how the sale is remembered in Russia and the United States — and, crucially, among Alaska’s indigenous communities — points to the state’s history as a cultural and religious crossroad.
当然了，没有谁当真建议俄罗斯应该像在2013年侵吞乌克兰的克里米亚一样，夺回阿拉斯加。但俄国人和美国人对于这项交易有着不同的记忆——至关重要的是，阿拉斯加的各原住民社区对此也有着不同的记忆——由此突显出阿拉斯加作为一个文化和宗教十字路口的历史。
Russians started to settle Alaska in 1784, setting up trading posts and Eastern Orthodox churches, mostly along the coast. By the 1860s, having lost the Crimean War to Britain, and fearful that Britain would seize Alaska in any future conflict, the czar decided to strike a deal.
俄罗斯人从1784年开始在阿拉斯加定居，建设贸易站和东正教堂——大多都是沿海岸而建。到1860年代，已经在克里米亚战争中输给英国的沙皇，担心未来一旦发生冲突，英国便会占领阿拉斯加，于是决定达成一项交易。
The sea otters who were the heart of then-thriving fur trade had almost been wiped out, and the Russians also feared that if gold were discovered — as it would be, in the Klondike Gold Rush that started in 1896 — the Americans might overrun the territory, said Susan Smith-Peter, a historian at the College of Staten Island in New York.
纽约史泰登岛学院(College of Staten Island)的历史学者苏珊·史密斯-彼得(Susan Smith-Peter)说，对当时蓬勃发展的皮毛贸易极为重要的海獭此前几乎被赶尽杀绝了，俄国人还担心，如果发现黄金——就像在始于1896年的克朗代克淘金潮中所发生的那样——美国人或许会蜂拥而至。
“From the Russian point of view, the deal made a lot of sense,” she said. “They could irritate Britain, and they could have a closer relationship with the United States.”
“从俄国人的角度看，这项交易非常有意义，”她说。“他们可以刺激英国，还可以拉近同美国的关系。”
The United States also thought the purchase would position it closer to trade with China, and fend off any British thoughts of encroachment on the West Coast, said Gwenn A. Miller, a historian at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass.
马萨诸塞州伍斯特圣十字学院(College of the Holy Cross)的历史学家格温·A·米勒(Gwenn A. Miller)说，美国也觉得买下阿拉斯加可以让它离中国更近，便于与之开展贸易，还可以遏制英国人对西海岸的不轨图谋。
“It was really about Manifest Destiny,’’ she said, “about expanding the U.S.”
“它其实关乎昭昭天命(Manifest Destiny)，”她说，“关乎美国的扩张。”
The treaty — setting the price at $7.2 million, or about $125 million today — was negotiated and signed by Eduard de Stoeckl, Russia’s minister to the United States, and William H. Seward, the American secretary of state. It was mostly considered beneficial to both countries, but some critics derided it as “Seward’s Folly” or “Seward’s Icebox” — and even now, scholars debate whether it was a bargain.
俄国驻美大使爱德华·德·斯多克尔(Eduard de Stoeckl)和美国国务卿威廉·H·苏厄德(William Henry Seward)达成并签署了阿拉斯加易手协议，作价720万美元，约合今天的1.25亿美元。当时，大多数人都认为此项交易对两个国家都有好处，但一些批评人士却戏谑地称之为“苏厄德的蠢行”或“苏厄德的大冰箱”——直到现在，还有学者争论这笔买卖是否划算。
In some Russian quarters, the sale has left a bitter aftertaste. “Along with Alaska, you sold out your Russian people,” Vladimir Kolychev, a history enthusiast, wrote in a poem last fall, addressed to Czar Alexander II.
在俄罗斯的某些地方，阿拉斯加的转手留下了苦涩的余味。“和阿拉斯加一道被你出卖的，是俄罗斯人民，”去年秋天，历史爱好者弗拉基米尔·科利切夫（Vladimir Kolychev）在写给沙皇亚历山大二世(Alexander II)的诗中表示。
In Washington, the anniversary was to be commemorated on Thursday with a luncheon at the National Press Club, a State Department reception and a concert with music by the composer John Luther Adams, who spent much of his life in Alaska. In Alaska, talks, lectures, art exhibitions and other events will continue through Alaska Day, Oct. 18, which marks the formal transfer of the territory. Alaska became the 49th state in January 1959.
在华盛顿，一些庆祝活动于周四举行，其中包括全美新闻俱乐部(National Press Club)的一场午餐会，国务院的一场招待会，以及把大半生时间都给了阿拉斯加的作曲家约翰·路德·亚当斯(John Luther Adams)作品专场音乐会。在阿拉斯加，研讨、讲座、艺术展等活动将一直持续到10月18日，即阿拉斯加日(Alaska Day)，它是这片土地被正式转交给美国的标志。阿拉斯加在1959年成了美国的第49个州。
When the Russians arrived in Alaska, they conscripted the people living along the coasts to hunt sea otters. After the land’s sale, the indigenous groups were freed, but the Americans brought their share of problems, said Sergei A. Kan, a professor of Native American studies at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire.
俄国人当初抵达阿拉斯加时，曾征募住在海岸边的人们去狩猎海獭。土地转手后，原住民获得了自由，但在新罕布什尔州达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)从事美国原住民研究的谢尔盖·A·卡恩(Sergei A. Kan)教授说，美国人也制造了一些问题。
“The Russian era was about paternalistic control, but the Russian goal was not to transform life radically, but to harness the people for economic purposes,” Mr. Kan said. “With the Americans, it was accompanied with a much more forceful Westernization.”
“俄国人做主的时代进行的是家长式控制，但俄国人的目标不是从根本上改变人们的生活，而是利用他们达成经济目的，”卡恩说。“与美国人一起到来的，则是更具强迫性的西化进程。”