Signs posted along the Steveston docks in Richmond, British Columbia, a popular tourist spot, do not mince words: Don’t feed the sea lions, because a bite “can cause very serious infections that may lead to amputation of a limb or even death.”
不列颠哥伦比亚省里士满的史蒂夫斯顿码头是一个非常受欢迎的旅游景点，这里的沿岸贴满了直白的告示：不要投喂海狮，因为被海狮咬一口“可能造成非常严重的感染，最终可能导致截肢甚至死亡”。
But people will be people, much to the frustration of the harbor authorities. On Saturday, a young girl and her family were feeding bread to a sea lion when the animal lurched up and grabbed the girl by the dress, pulling her off the dock and underwater for a few horrifying moments.
但是，令海港当局失望的是，人性就是如此。星期六，一个小女孩和家人向一头海狮投喂面包，海狮突然跳起来，拽着女孩的衣服，把她从码头拖到水里。整个过程持续了不长的时间，却令人惊恐不已。
A man leapt into the water to pull her out, and it appeared that the only damage was a lost pair of glasses. A bystander caught the drama on video.
一个男人跳进水中把她拉出来，最后唯一的损失似乎就是丢了一副眼镜。一个旁观者把这刺激的一幕拍成了视频。
“You wouldn’t go up to a grizzly bear in the bush and hand him a ham sandwich, so you shouldn’t be handing a thousand-pound wild mammal in the water slices of bread,” Robert Kiesman, the chairman of the Steveston Harbour Authority, told CBC News.
“你不会走近树丛里的灰熊，递给它一个火腿三明治，所以你也不应该向水中的一头一千磅重的野生哺乳动物投喂面包。”史蒂夫斯顿海港管理局局长罗伯特·基斯曼(Robert Kiesman)在接受CBC新闻采访时说。 
The girl’s family quickly hustled the shaken child away, perhaps eager to leave because of signs that threaten fines of up to 100,000 Canadian dollars for “disturbing” a marine mammal.
女孩的家人很快就带着浑身发抖的小孩离开了，他们可能很急着离开，因为有告示威胁说，“打扰”海洋哺乳动物的罚款高达10万加元。
But the internet lit up with scorn for the parents.
但是互联网上充斥着对那对父母的鄙视。
This is not the first time social media has weighed in on such matters. Last year, parents of a boy who tumbled into a gorilla’s den at a zoo in Cincinnati received a public scolding after the zoo staff shot and killed the gorilla for fear that it would kill the child.
这不是社交媒体上第一次对这种事情展开讨论了。去年，一个男孩在辛辛那提的一个动物园里跌进大猩猩的笼子，动物园工作人员担心大猩猩会杀死小孩，于是开枪射杀了大猩猩，之后男孩的父母受到公众的责骂。
Attacks by sea lions happen occasionally when humans venture too close.
当人类冒险靠近时，海狮偶尔会袭击人类。
In 2006, a sea lion bit 14 swimmers and chased 10 out of the water near San Francisco’s Fisherman’s Wharf before the beach was closed. In 2009, a sea lion snatched a 5-year-old girl off the dock of a West Vancouver marina. She surfaced about two meters away with a bite on her hand. And in 2007, a sea lion attacked a 13-year-old girl who had been surfing behind a speedboat in Australia. The girl suffered cuts to her throat and a broken jaw and lost three teeth, but survived.
2006年，在旧金山渔人码头海滩关闭之前，一头海狮在海滩附近的水里咬了14名游泳者，并将10人逐出了那片水域。 2009年，在西温哥华一座船坞的码头上，一头海狮把一个5岁女孩拖进水里。她在两米开外浮出水面，手上被咬了一口。2007年，在澳大利亚，一头海狮袭击了一名跟随快艇冲浪的13岁女孩。她的喉咙被割开，下巴骨折，失去了三颗牙齿，但还是活下来了。
The mammals are carnivorous but generally eat fish, so are probably not looking to make a meal of a human being. But their bites can be deadly because of the rich mix of bacteria and fungi found in their mouths and on their huge teeth. For centuries, sealers and others who handle pinnipeds have suffered from “seal finger,” an infection contracted from bites or contact with dead seals.
这些哺乳动物是肉食性的，但它们通常吃鱼，所以不大可能是想拿人类作为一顿美餐。但是被它们咬了却可能会送命，因为它们的嘴里和巨大的牙齿上布满各种各样的细菌和真菌。几个世纪以来，捕猎海豹以及其他鳍脚类动物的人经常患上“海豹指”，就是指被海豹咬了或是接触海豹尸体后受到的感染。
In Saturday’s episode, the sea lion does not appear to have broken the girl’s skin, but she is fortunate that the animal quickly let go. Sea lions can dive hundreds of feet and stay underwater for 10 minutes or more.
在星期六的事件中，海狮似乎并没有咬破女孩的皮肤，不过海狮迅速放开了她，这一点也是非常幸运的。海狮可以潜水数百英尺，在水下呆10分钟乃至更长的时间。
In 2015, a seal lion snatched a man from his boat off the coast of Mexico, he wrote in a news article, and dragged him 25 to 30 feet beneath the surface. He survived because he had experience free diving, going deep without the benefit of scuba tanks.
2015年，在墨西哥海岸沿岸，一头海狮从船上拖走了一名男子，事后他在一则新闻故事中写道，自己被拖到水下25至30英尺的地方。他之所以能够生还，是因为他有自由潜水的经验，可以不带气瓶就潜入深水。