Election Day is upon us, and that means (among other things) that the American voter is entitled to a bunch of free stuff: doughnuts, pizza, cheese dip, you name it. It is all provided by businesses looking to get a bit of publicity by encouraging everyone to fulfill their civic duty.
选举日到了，那意味着美国投票者能获得很多赠品（当然也意味着其他一些事情）：甜甜圈、披萨、芝士蘸酱等等。它们都是由那些希望通过鼓励大家履行公民义务而获得一点宣传的公司提供。
The only problem? All those giveaways are technically against the law.
唯一的问题是什么呢？从严格意义上讲，所有那些赠品都是违法的。
“The basic line on this is in an election where a federal candidate is on the ballot, you cannot give anyone any reward — anything of any value — for turning out to vote,” said Rick Hasen, a professor of law and political science at the University of California, Irvine. “It doesn’t matter if it’s a civic pride thing or if it’s not about any one candidate.”
“最根本的问题是，在联邦选举中，你不能因参与投票而给予任何人任何价值的任何奖励，”加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的法律和政治学教授里克·哈森(Rick Hasen)说。“不管是出于公民自豪感，还是这与任何一位候选人无关。”
But companies are rarely penalized for Election Day freebies, he said. That means these kinds of giveaway offers pop up every four years, including today.
不过他说，很少有公司因在选举日提供赠品而受到处罚。那就意味着，这种赠予每四年就会出现一次，包括今天。
At some businesses, an “I Voted” sticker is your ticket to free things. It will get you a free cookie at Great American Cookies and a red, white and blue limited-edition pin at Foot Locker.
在有些公司，“我投票了”(I Voted)贴纸是你获得赠品的票据。它能让你得到美国饼干公司(Great American Cookies)的免费饼干，或富特洛克公司(Foot Locker)的一枚限量版红白蓝徽章。
A sticker was also previously required by Krispy Kreme, which changed its offer (and deleted a tweet advertising it) on Monday evening. Now voters and nonvoters alike can get a free snack from the doughnut-maker, which, perhaps reflecting political tensions, told its customers that a robust turnout can ensure that “democracy lives on.”
KK甜甜圈连锁公司(Krispy Kreme)之前也要求出示“我投票了”贴纸。周一晚上，它改了主意（同时删掉了宣传推文）。现在，不管是否投票，都可以得到该甜甜圈生产商的一份免费小吃。该公司对顾客们说，大家都来投票才能保证“民主继续存在”——这也许反映出政治的紧张程度。
Other businesses require you to simply say you voted. Chuck E. Cheese’s will give you a free personal-size pepperoni pizza if you say you voted or use a coupon code. You can also get free chips and cheese dip at California Tortilla by saying one of three election-themed passwords (one is “Make Queso Great Again”; another is a more Clintonian “I’m With Queso.”)
还有一些公司只要求你声称自己已投票。只要你说投过票或使用优惠券代码，Chuck E. Cheese’s公司就赠送一人份的意大利辣肠披萨。如果你说出三个以竞选为主题的暗号（一个是"让墨西哥软酪恢复伟大荣光”[Make Queso Great Again]；还有一个是更倾向克林顿的“我挺墨西哥软酪”[I’m With Queso]），你就能在加州玉米粉圆饼公司(California Tortilla)得到免费薯条和芝士蘸酱。
“This comes up every election because businesses have this civic-minded idea that they can promote their business and be patriotic,” Professor Hasen said. “It’s not intuitively obvious that it’s illegal to give things away to people who exercise their civic pride. I certainly understand the confusion.”
“因为企业有这种宣传、爱国两不误的热心公民事务的想法，所以每次大选都会出现这种情况，”哈森教授说。“向践行公民自豪感的人分发赠品是违法的，这一点在直觉上并不是那么明显。我当然理解这种困惑。”
Some giveaways are acceptable, however. The big one is transportation: It is common for political groups, churches and others to provide voters a free lift to the polls on Election Day.
不过，有些赠品是可以接受的。最大的是交通费：政治团体或教堂等组织在选举日免费把投票者送往投票点是很常见的做法。
In that spirit, Uber and Google have teamed up on a feature that lets voters find their polling place and then request a ride there. First-time Uber users will get $20 off their ride if they use the code “VOTETODAY.”
基于这种精神，优步(Uber)和谷歌(Google)联手推出一项服务，让投票者找到投票点，然后要求一次搭乘。首次使用优步的用户如果使用代码VOTETODAY，可减免20美元车费。
Lyft is offering a 45 percent discount on one ride (because the nation is electing its 45th president) between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. in almost two dozen cities. Zipcar, a vehicle-sharing service, is providing free use of its cars so people can drive themselves to the polls.
从早7点至晚8点，Lyft在20多个城市提供单程45%的折扣（因为美国正在选举第45位总统）。汽车共享公司Zipcar免费提供车辆，供投票者自己开车去投票。
Arrangements like that shouldn’t pose a legal problem, experts said. But when it comes to an election, everything is up for debate.
专家称，这样一些做法应该不会带来法律问题。不过，涉及到大选，所有的事情都可以拿来讨论。
“You can have an extended law school class discussion about exactly what is the difference between driving someone to the polls when it would cost them several dollars to get there versus just giving them $5 outright,” said Edward B. Foley, a professor of law and the director of the Election Law Program at Ohio State University’s Moritz College of Law. “That’s a slippery slope, to use a term law professors like to use a lot.”
“你可以在法学院搞一个大型的课堂讨论，关于免费送至投票点——本来需要花几美元——与直接赠送5美元之间的区别，”俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)莫里兹法学院(Moritz College of Law)教授、选举法项目负责人爱德华·B·福利(Edward B. Foley)说，“用法学教授们经常用的一个术语说，那是滑坡谬误。”
Then there is Starbucks. Its civic engagement — and unease — has been on display since last week, when it released a special edition paper cup meant as a statement of national unity.
还有星巴克(Starbucks)。它的公民参与——一种担忧——从上周就显现出来，它开始使用一种旨在宣传国家团结的特别版纸杯。
On Tuesday, the company’s chairman and chief executive, Howard Schultz, sent a 500-word pep talk to all Starbucks employees that began with an admission of his own election-related anxiety and an elegy for the lost “promise of America.”
周二，该公司的总裁兼首席执行官霍华德·舒尔茨(Howard Schultz)向全体星巴克员工发了一封500字的动员信。他在开头承认自己对大选感到焦虑，对逝去的“美国希望”感到悲哀。
He urged his employees to stay positive and be kind to one another and the people around them.
他鼓励员工们保持积极态度，对彼此以及周围的人友好。
“In the face of this epic, unseemly election and the concern we all share about the direction of our country and the lack of truth and void of leadership, we can still make a difference in the lives of the people we touch and influence every day,” he wrote.
“面对这场漫长艰巨、不太体面的大选以及对国家未来、真相缺乏和领导力缺失的共同忧虑，我们依然可以给自己每天接触和影响的人的生活带来不同，”他写道。
But will it be giving anything away? A spokesman on Monday night said the answer was no.
但那是否意味着发放赠品？周一晚上，该公司的一名发言人给出了否定的回答。