Richard Robinson tended bar in the Virgin Islands, taught English in Prague, picked grapes in France, painted houses in Norway and toiled at a BMW factory in Munich. But little prepared him for the adventure that awaited him in Hong Kong.
理查德·罗宾逊(Richard Robinson)曾在维尔京群岛当过调酒师、在布拉格教过英语、在法国采过葡萄、在挪威给房子刷过漆，还在慕尼黑的一家宝马(BMW)工厂干过脏活苦活。但这些，并没有为他在香港的冒险做好准备。
In 1999, he joined Renren, a leading online bulletin board system in the days before the Internet took off.
1999年，他进入了人人网。在互联网腾飞之前的那段日子里，人人是个知名的网上论坛。
“We were like the GeoCities of China,” he said, referring to an early web hosting service that nurtured communities, before social networking. Mr. Robinson was vice president for sales and marketing, with 76 employees. “It was like a rocket ship,” he recalled. “We opened offices in Beijing, Shanghai, Taipei, Singapore, Silicon Valley and New York.”
“我们就像是中国的地球村(GeoCities)，”他说。地球村是社交网络出现之前的早期网页寄存服务企业，孕育了网络社区。罗宾逊成为了公司负责营销工作的副总裁，手下有76名员工。“公司发展的速度堪比宇宙飞船，”他回忆说。“我们在北京、上海、台北、新加坡、硅谷和纽约开设了办公室。”
Renren raised $37 million and then took a backdoor listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, valuing the company at $1.5 billion. Mr. Robinson had gone from itinerant backpacker to multimillionaire. Just as quickly, he was wiped out in the dot-com meltdown.
人人网筹得了3700万美元（约合2.2亿元人民币）资金，然后在香港交易所(Hong Kong Stock Exchange)借壳上市，市值达15亿美元。罗宾逊从江湖背包客摇身变成千万富翁，但又同样快速地被互联网泡沫的破灭打回原形。
“I had options worth over $10 million,” he noted. “On paper.” Renren lost 98 percent of its value and was eventually acquired for less than $30 million.
“我有价值1000多万美元的期权，”他说，“在纸面上。”人人网市值蒸发了98%，后来以不到3000万美元的价格被收购。
But one of the company’s legacies was moving Mr. Robinson in 2000 to Beijing, where over the last dozen years he has been a serial entrepreneur, involved in various start-ups, mainly focused on mobile Internet and gaming in China. He’s also a fixture on the conference circuit as a resident Chinese information technology expert, a director of many start-ups and a founding member of many networking associations.
不过，人人网造成的影响之一是，罗宾逊于2000年搬到了北京。在过去十几年间，他在北京接二连三地创业，参与了多家初创公司，主要精力放在中国的移动互联网和游戏上。作为常驻北京的中国信息技术专家、多家初创企业的董事，以及多个网络协会的创始成员，他在这个圈子里有稳固的地位。
“I like to create something out of nothing and build it to where it has value,” he said. Not all of the ventures have proved to be successful, he noted. “The default setting for a start-up is failure,” he explained. “And not just failure, but magnificent, awful, total failure. That doesn’t get said enough. Being a start-up is not sexy at all.”
“我喜欢从无到有，创造出价值，”他说。他还指出，并不是所有的公司都会成功。“初创企业的默认结果是失败，”他解释道。“不是一般性的失败，而是惊天动地、非常可怕而又彻彻底底的失败。这么说都嫌不够。创业过程毫无光鲜亮丽可言。”
It helps to have a sense of humor, and Mr. Robinson, a 46-year-old Boston native and amateur comedian, knows about laughs. In his spare time, he runs ChopSchticks, Asia’s biggest comedy booking outfit, and has brought international stand-up comedy to China, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bangkok.
幽默感对他很有帮助。罗宾逊现年46岁，生于波士顿，是个业余喜剧演员，知道怎么给人带来欢笑。他用业余时间经营亚洲最大的喜剧演出品牌ChopSchticks，把国际上的单人喜剧表演带到中国大陆、香港、东京和曼谷。
When Louis C. K. made an unpublicized visit to Beijing in 2012, Mr. Robinson not only quickly organized a show in a historic Peking opera hall that sold out in minutes, he opened for one of the hottest comics on earth. “There we were, two balding old guys, divorced, with two kids,” he said. “But, of course, he’s the famous one.”
全球大热的喜剧演员路易·C·K(Louis C. K.)于2012年造访北京时，并没有进行公开宣传。罗宾逊不仅迅速在一家历史悠久的京剧院组织了一场门票瞬间售罄的表演，还为路易·C·K做暖场表演。“我们两个，都是秃头的老家伙，都离婚了，都有两个孩子，”他说。“但是，当然了，他是有名的那个。”
But among booming Internet ventures in China, Mr. Robinson probably has more recognition. “He’s a great entrepreneur, very experienced in China,” said Dave McClure, head of 500 Startups and a globe-trotting venture capitalist. Mr. McClure also organizes Geeks on a Plane, taking high-flying technology entrepreneurs on global jet-working trips.
不过，在中国蓬勃发展的互联网企业界，罗宾逊的知名度很可能更胜一筹。“他是一位出色的创业家，在中国问题上经验老到，”500 Startups的负责人戴夫·麦克卢尔(Dave McClure)说。麦克卢尔是周游世界的风险投资人，还组织了创业巡游活动极客行(Geeks On A Plane)，让雄心勃勃的科技创业者乘坐喷气式飞机在全球寻找创意。
Mr. Robinson joined one tour, and the two men have remained in touch ever since. “For folks coming to China, he’s a huge help,” Mr. McClure said. “He’s really married into the culture, knows the language, and is a fixture there. He really knows what is going on in China.”
罗宾逊参加了一次巡游，从那时起，两人一直保持着联系。“他可以为前往中国的伙计们提供巨大的帮助，”麦克卢尔说。“他真的融入了他们的文化、懂他们的语言，而且在那里拥有一席之地。他的确了解中国正在发生的状况。”
Before he became enmeshed in China, Mr. Robinson lived a peripatetic life, traveling the world with a backpack. After earning a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the University of Southern California in 1989, he traveled widely in Europe and Africa. By his estimation, he visited more than 83 countries and territories. He then completed an M.B.A. at the Rotterdam School of Management in the Netherlands in 1996.
在进入中国之前，罗宾逊带着背包周游世界，过着逍遥自在的生活。1989年，他在南加州大学(University of Southern California)获得工商管理学士学位，然后前往欧洲和非洲广为游历。他估计自己去过逾83个国家和地区。之后，他于1996年在荷兰的鹿特丹管理学院(Rotterdam School of Management)取得了工商管理硕士的学位。
“When I started grad school, I had no idea what I would do,” he said.
他说，“开始研究生学业的时候，我根本不知道自己要干什么。”
But the moment he arrived in China 20 years ago, he sensed it was the place to hang up his backpack. “I could smell the opportunity,” he quipped. “It was smell-ortunity.”
不过，就在他20年前来到中国的那一刻，他感觉，这里就是他把背包挂起来的地方。他俏皮地说，“我能闻到机遇的味道。好机会是闻出来的。”
It was the same exhilaration he felt when he first explored the World Wide Web at his university library. “Right away, I knew I was going to be an Internet entrepreneur in China,” he recalled. “It was like these two big ideas that were perfect together, like chocolate and peanut butter.”
当他在大学图书馆里第一次探索互联网时，感受到了同样的兴奋。“我当即就知道，我会在中国搞互联网创业，”他回忆说。“这就好比两个搭配完美的妙想被放在一起，就像巧克力配花生酱。”
Mr. Robinson most recently was involved with Kooky Panda, which created socially connected mobile games. Before that, he started Dada Asia, a mobile entertainment company that had operations in 10 countries. He previously co-founded Shouji Mobile Entertainment, among China’s leaders in customizing and testing mobile applications, with a customer list that included EA Mobile, Disney Mobile and Vivendi Games. Shouji was gobbled up by China’s huge Tencent.
不久前，罗宾逊参与了大慧方趣的工作。这是一家开发社交化移动游戏的企业。在此之前，他创立了Dada Asia，一家在10个国家有业务的移动娱乐公司。再往前，他是Shouji移动娱乐公司的联合创始人。该公司在定制和测试移动应用程序的中国企业中名列前茅，艺电移动(EA Mobile)、迪士尼移动(Disney Mobile)和维旺迪游戏(Vivendi Games)都在它的客户名单上。后来，Shouji被中国互联网业巨头腾讯吞并。
“I’ve known Richard pretty much since he moved to Beijing from Hong Kong,” said Kaiser Kuo, another longtime participant in the China technology scene, who also played guitar with Tang Dynasty, one of the mainland’s biggest heavy metal groups. The two were involved in several ventures. “I recruited him to a mobile start-up I was involved in 2001,” Mr. Kuo said. Afterward, they worked together at Linktone, a mobile entertainment company.
中国技术创业进程的另一名长期参与者郭怡广(Kaiser Kuo)说，“理查德从香港搬到北京后，我差不多就认识他了。”郭怡广还在中国大陆最负盛名的重金属乐队之一唐朝乐队当过吉他手。二人曾在几家公司共事。“2001年，我请他到我加盟的一家移动创业企业来，”郭怡广说。那之后，他们在移动娱乐公司掌上灵通合作了几年。
“I know him to be someone just overflowing with enthusiasm and energy in everything that he does,” said Mr. Kuo, who now heads international communications for the Chinese search engine Baidu. “I’ve seen him in good times and bad — and some of those bad times were flat-out horrible — but he’s got this unflappable optimism.”
郭怡广说，“在我的印象中，他是一个做任何事都热情高涨、精力充沛的人。”郭怡广现在是中国搜索引擎公司百度的国际媒体公关总监。“我看到过他春风得意的时候，也见过他身处困境的时期，有些时候可以说是糟糕透顶，但他一直保持着乐观。”
Kooky Panda turned out to be one of those bad times, and Mr. Robinson had to shut it down last year. He said $850,000 was lost. Yet investors offered to bankroll future projects. In this industry, Mr. Robinson said, you aren’t judged by your latest at bat but your previous home runs.
大慧方趣就让罗宾逊陷入了这样的困境，不得不于去年停业。他说，亏损了85万美元。不过，投资人提出，赞助他未来的项目。罗宾逊说，在这个行业，别人对你的评价并不取决于你上一次在场上的击球，而是你曾击出过的本垒打。
“Woody Allen said something like 80 percent of success is just showing up.” On reflection, he added: “Failure is like scar tissue, more than a badge of honor, in this business. It’s like a suit of armor.”
“伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)好像说过，80%的成功来自于到场。”他思考了一下接着说，“在这个行业，失败就像身上的瘢痕，不光是荣誉勋章，还像是铠甲。”
Mr. Robinson usually has his next venture running before the last one is sold or shut down. For nearly four years, he has worked on Yolu, a mobile app with various capabilities. For microbloggers on Weibo, often called China’s Twitter, Yolu offers features comparable to LinkedIn. A business card reader included in the app is intended to optimize contacts and connections.
通常在上一家公司被出售或者关闭之前，罗宾逊就已经开始运营下一家公司。他开发友录(Yolu)已有将近四年时间。这是一款拥有多种功能的移动应用。对于常常被称作中国Twitter的新浪微博的用户，它提供了类似于LinkedIn的一些功能。应用中内置名片阅读器，目的是优化联系人信息和人脉。
Mr. Robinson’s approach to work differs from that of many of his peers: He limits phone and email time. “I shut the phone off and don’t even look at it in the morning,” he said.
罗宾逊的工作态度异于许多同行：他限定使用电话和电子邮件的时间。“我上午电话关机，连看都不会看它一眼，”他说。
“I start my day with a little meditation — maybe only 15 minutes,” he added. “Then I dig into my first task.” Focus is essential. “I’m most productive in the morning. I avoid email, and all distractions,” he said. “Email is somebody else’s to-do list.”
“我每天早上都做一会儿冥想——大概也就15分钟，”他还说。“然后我会投入到第一项任务中。”专注力是关键。“我上午的效率最高。我会避开邮件，所有那些分散精力的东西，”他说。“电子邮件是别人要做的事。”
The entire day plays out with the same precision. He and his wife are divorced, and he takes his two sons to school in the morning, then commutes to work by subway, where he checks his mail for the first time by phone. And multitasks.
罗宾逊一整天都保持着同样的严谨。他和妻子离了婚，每天早上送两个儿子上学，然后乘地铁上班。在地铁上，才是一天中他首次用手机查邮件的时候。他还会同时做许多其他事。
Mr. Robinson relishes the challenge.
罗宾逊享受着这种有挑战的生活。
“China is a highly competitive, gladiator-type competition,” he said. “That’s what people don’t get; it’s not about the government or censorship, it’s competing.”
“中国的竞争很激烈，就像角斗士之间的竞争，”他说。“人们没有明白这一点；它与政府或审查制度无关，是竞争。”