WASHINGTON —The easiest way to gain entry into the United States is not to walk across the border in the dead of night. It is to write a check.
华盛顿——获得美国身份最容易的办法，不是在深夜偷偷越过边境，而是写一张支票。
A visa process enacted by Congress in 1990 to create jobs and pump billions of dollars into the economy has evolved into a program that federal investigators and some prominent lawmakers say has become a risk to national security and an easy mark for abuse, particularly from China.
为创造工作机会，也为了给美国经济注入数以亿计的资金，美国国会在1990年批准了一个签证项目。如今一些联邦调查人员和知名律师指出，这个项目已成为美国国家安全方面的一个漏洞，很容易被滥用，尤其是被中国人。
The program, called EB-5, allows wealthy foreign investors, for a price ranging from $500,000 to more than $1 million, to put themselves on a path to United States citizenship. The money must be used to finance a business in this country and eventually employ — directly or indirectly — at least 10 American workers in economically depressed areas.
这个签证项目名为EB-5，允许富有的外国投资者以50万至100多万美元不等的费用，为自己铺就一条获得美国公民身份的道路。这些资金必须用于投资美国的商业项目，而且最终要在经济不景气的地区直接或间接创造至少10个美国就业岗位。
But EB-5 has been the subject of increasing scrutiny since investigators uncovered numerous cases of fraud, discovered individuals with possible ties to Chinese and Iranian intelligence using fake documents and learned that international fugitives who have laundered money had infiltrated the program.
不过，EB-5受到了越来越严格的审视，因为调查人员挖掘出许多造假的情况。他们发现一些与中国和伊朗情报机构可能存在联系的个人，在使用伪造的文件申请这样的签证，还了解到涉嫌洗钱的国际逃犯也钻了这个项目的空子。
“It’s no secret that the program has long been riddled with corruption and national security vulnerabilities,” said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and a frequent critic of the program.
经常批评该项目的爱荷华州共和党参议员查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)说，“这个项目一直充斥着腐败和国家安全漏洞，这不是秘密。”
A number of Democrats echo his criticism, in large part because while most visa applicants must meet education or work requirements, the primary requirement for the EB-5 program is a “lawful source of investment income,” one Department of Homeland Security memo said.
一些民主党人认同他的批评，这在很大程度上是因为虽然大多数签证申请人必须达到教育或工作要求，但美国国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的一份备忘录显示，EB-5项目的基本要求就是要有“合法的投资收入来源”。
“I don’t believe that America should be selling visas and eventually citizenship,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who wants to terminate a part of the program that allows foreign applicants to invest through regional development centers that pool investor money. “The right to immigrate should not be for sale.”
“我不认为美国应该出售签证，并最终开始出售国籍，”加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)说，“移民的权利不应该出售。”她希望终止该项目的部分内容，即允许外国申请人通过吸纳投资者资金的区域发展中心进行投资。
Supporters of the EB-5 program, including real estate developers, spent as much as $3 million to help defeat legislation sponsored by Mr. Grassley and Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, intended to address fraud and national security concerns.
包括房地产开发商在内的EB-5项目支持者花费了高达300万美元的资金，来帮助挫败格拉斯利和佛蒙特州民主党参议员帕特里克·J·莱希(Patrick J. Leahy)发起的旨在解决诈骗及国家安全问题的法案。
The program has grown rapidly, to nearly 9,000 conditional visas last year, of which 80 percent were issued to Chinese investors, from 64 EB-5 visas in 2003. Investigators have found that security risks have risen rapidly with the growth.
该项目迅速发展，去年发出了将近9000份有条件签证，其中80%发给了中国投资者，而2003年该项目发出的签证只有64个。调查人员发现，随着数量的增加，安全风险迅速上升。
A Government Accountability Office report released in August found that the agency could not be sure that money used for the visas was not coming from “the drug trade, human trafficking or other criminal activities.”
去年8月，美国政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)公布的一份报告显示，该机构不能确定用于获得此类签证的资金不是来自“毒品交易、人口贩卖或其他犯罪活动”。
Officials at Homeland Security Investigations, a division of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said they were concerned that those who prepare overseas documents “may try to use increasingly sophisticated methods to circumvent” the program. In a 2013 memo, the agency suggested that the EB-5 regional center program end because “there are no safeguards that can be put in place that will ensure the integrity” of the regional center model.
美国移民及海关执法局(Immigration and Customs Enforcement)下属的国土安全调查局(Homeland Security Investigation)的官员表示，它们担心准备海外文件的人“可能试图利用愈发成熟的手段避开”该项目。2013年的一份备忘录显示，该机构建议终结EB-5区域中心项目，因为“没有可以付诸实施的保障措施，确保区域中心模式的严密性”。
An internal review by the fraud detection office at United States Citizenship and Immigration Services found numerous fraudulent documents when it conducted a random sampling of pending visa applications. Officials at the agency said they did not have the authority to shut down a regional center that has received money from foreign investors solely because of possible criminal or national security concerns.
美国公民及移民服务局(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services)欺诈检测办公室开展内部审查，对待审核的签证申请进行抽样调查时发现了很多虚假文件。该机构的官员们表示，他们无权仅因可能存在犯罪或国家安全问题的理由，关闭那些接受外国投资者资金的区域中心。
Court records and law enforcement documents show that several individuals with questionable backgrounds have used the program to launder money and gain entry to the United States.
法庭记录及执法文件显示，一些背景有问题的个人曾利用该项目洗钱，获得进入美国的机会。
A growing concern among United States intelligence and law enforcement officials is that foreign government agents might be trying to infiltrate the program to conduct economic espionage or gain access to technology that is banned from export.
美国情报及执法官员愈发担心，外国政府机构可能试图渗入该项目，开展经济间谍活动或者获取禁止出口的技术。
And Homeland Security officials said they were being more proactive in tracing the sources of foreign investor income, including establishing working relationships with Chinese government officials and conducting overseas visits to verify applicants’ sources of income.
国土安全部官员表示，他们在更为主动地追踪外国投资者的收入来源，比如与中国政府官员建立工作关系，进行海外访问来核实申请人的收入来源。
Mr. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he was not convinced the changes were enough.
参议院司法委员会(Senate Judiciary Committee)主席格拉斯利表示，他不相信做出这些改变就够了。