When Carl C. Icahn starts making noises about a company, executives usually listen. But his campaign for Apple to return more money to shareholders might be falling on deaf ears.
要是卡尔·C·伊坎(Carl C. Icahn)对一家公司吵吵嚷嚷，公司高管们通常会听。不过他对苹果公司(Apple)发起的攻势，大概不会有人在意。他要求苹果向投资者返还更多现金。
The investor sought to increase the pressure on Apple on Thursday, posting a letter he had sent to Timothy D. Cook, its chief executive, on his own Web site. The letter, which Mr. Cook received on Wednesday, urged Apple to immediately begin an offer to buy back $150 billion of its shares at $525 a share.
这位投资人周四加大了向苹果施压的力度，在自己的网站上发布了一封致苹果公司CEO蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)的公开信。库克已在周三收到了这封信，信中敦促苹果立即开始以每股525美元（约合3190元人民币）的价格，回购价值1500亿美元的股票。
The company has not yet responded to Mr. Icahn’s public calls, which began in August when Mr. Icahn first disclosed he had a stake in the company. He has taken to Twitter and CNBC to agitate for Apple to do something with its large cash reserves.
苹果公司尚未回应伊坎的公开呼吁。伊坎的呼吁始于今年8月，当时他首次披露自己持有苹果公司的股份，他还在Twitter和CNBC上大加鼓动，要求苹果对手上持有的巨额现金做些什么。
With a net cash position of $130 billion, analysts say Apple could afford to return more money to shareholders. But the company has already undertaken a $100 billion share buyback and dividend program and may not feel it needs to do anything more for now.
苹果公司净现金储备有1300亿美元，分析人士说，该公司有能力向股东返还更多的钱。但是苹果已经开展了一项1000亿美元的股份回购和派发红利计划，现在应该不会觉得还需要再做些什么。
“Just because they can, it doesn’t mean that they will,” said Robert Cihra, an analyst with Evercore. “I don’t know whether anyone can exercise any power over Apple, given their size,” he added.
“有能力做到，并不意味着他们真的会做，”Evercore分析师罗伯特·西拉(Robert Cihra)说道。“苹果公司规模这么大，我不知道谁能对它施加什么力量。”
In March 2012, Apple announced for the first time since it was founded by Steve Wozniak and Steven P. Jobs in the mid-1970s that it would pay a dividend. It also said it would buy back stock for more than $10 billion a year until 2015. The move signaled a shift in Apple’s dividend policy under the leadership of Mr. Cook.
在2012年3月，苹果公司首次宣布分红，这是史蒂夫·沃兹尼亚克(Steve Wozniak)和史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)在20世纪70年代中期创立这家公司以来的第一次。苹果还宣布在2015年前，每年回购价值超过100亿美元的股票。这一动作显示出，在库克的领导之下，苹果公司的分红政策发生了转变。
While significant, the move did not please all shareholders. Another billionaire hedge fund manager, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, sued Apple earlier this year as part of a campaign to get the company to give away more of its cash pile to investors.
尽管这是一个重大举动，但是并没有取悦所有股东。另一名从事基金管理的亿万富豪，绿光资本(Greenlight Capital)的戴维·艾因霍恩(David Einhorn)今年早些时候起诉了苹果，诉讼是迫使苹果向投资者发放更多现金的努力的一部分。
Apple responded with a statement that it would “thoroughly” consider ways it could return some of its cash to investors, and Mr. Einhorn’s proposal to issue a preferred class of stock.
苹果发布声明回应道，该公司会“全面”考虑向股东返还现金的方式，也会考虑艾因霍恩所说的发行一种优先股的提议。
Apple announced a month later that it would quintuple its existing share repurchase plan, pledging to buy $60 billion by 2015, and would increase its dividend by 15 percent to $3.05 a share.
一个月后，苹果宣布会将现有的股份回购方案提高五倍，宣布在2015年前购入600亿美元股份，并且将分红金额提升15%，提高到每股派发3.05美元。
Mr. Icahn has been more vocal than Mr. Einhorn. Since August, Mr. Icahn made his views about Apple public, using his personal Twitter account — with 105,713 followers — to apply pressure on Mr. Cook.
伊坎表达观点比艾因霍恩更直率。伊坎从8月就开始公开表达自己对苹果的看法，通过自己的Twitter账号向库克施压。他的Twitter账号有105713人关注。
There are reasons to be skeptical about Mr. Icahn’s proposal. For one, it would be the biggest stock buyback in history.
人们有理由对伊坎的提议表示怀疑。首先，那会是有史以来规模最大的股票回购。
Still, Apple’s remaining cash pile is enormous, and some shareholders are likely to agree with Mr. Icahn’s view.
不过苹果现在持有的现金总量十分巨大，一些投资者可能会赞同伊坎的立场。
“It’s almost like keeping money in your checking account,” said Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “There’s an opportunity you can be earning more with that.”
“这几乎像是把钱存在活期账户里，”桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein & Company)金融分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)说。“我们有机会用这些钱赚更多的钱。”
Mr. Icahn has his fair share of critics, too.
伊坎也受到了一些人批评。
“I don’t know why they would have to pay attention to this guy; he is just a distraction,” said Douglas J. Skinner , an accounting professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
芝加哥大学布斯商学院(University of Chicago Booth School of Business)会计学教授道格拉斯·J·斯金纳(Douglas J. Skinner)说，“我看不出他们有任何理由去关注这个人，他其实无足轻重。”
Mr. Skinner said that the buyback campaign did little to address the main question for Apple: whether or not it could continue to generate revenue and improve its profit margin.
斯金纳说，回购计划对于解决苹果公司最重要的问题没有起到什么帮助，即它能不能继续产生收入，并提高利润率？
Apple’s profit slowed this year, but that was largely because it had not yet introduced new versions of its best-selling products, the iPad and iPhone. The company recently introduced two new iPhones, which sold nine million units the first weekend they went on the market, nearly double the first-weekend sales of last year’s iPhone.
今年，苹果的利润增长出现放缓，但这很大程度上是因为当时还没有为畅销产品iPad和iPhone推出新版本。苹果最近推出了两款iPhone，上市后的第一个周末，就售出了900万台，与去年那款iPhone的首个周末销量相比，几乎翻了一番。
In November, it will release two new iPads, which are also expected to be blockbuster hits. And in the near future, Apple is expected to release a connected wristwatch, entering the market of wearable computers. Gartner, the research firm, has estimated that market  could be worth $10 billion in three years.
今年11月，苹果还将推出两款新的iPad，预计也将大卖。而且根据预期，苹果还将在不远的未来发布一款连接网络的腕表，进军可穿戴计算机装备的市场。研究公司高德纳(Gartner)估计，这个市场在三年后将价值100亿美元。
While Mr. Icahn has been an influential investor known to rattle cages at other companies, it is unlikely he has as much leverage at a company that has a market value of $483.24 billion. On Thursday, Mr. Icahn increased his shares in Apple to 4.7 million shares, giving him a 0.5 percent stake.
尽管伊坎是一个很有影响力的投资者，因为能扰动其他公司而为人熟知，但是对苹果这家市值高达4832.4亿美元的公司，不大会产生多大的影响力。周四，伊坎将自己持有的苹果股票提高到了470万股，占苹果总股本的0.5%。
With little leverage, Mr. Icahn will have to convince shareholders and the public that he is more than just a short-term investor. Mr. Icahn told CNBC on Thursday that he was prepared to begin a proxy fight to gain a seat on the board.
由于影响力极小，伊坎就必须要让股东和公众相信，他不仅仅是一个短线投资者。伊坎周四对CNBC表示，他已经准备好发动一场纷争，在董事会谋得席位。
Winning the public’s approval could prove difficult. A criticism often lobbied against Mr. Icahn has been that he is interested in Apple only for a short-term gain. Mr. Icahn has denied these claims. “There is nothing short term about my intentions here,” he wrote in his letter to Mr. Cook.
赢得公众的认可或许会十分困难。伊坎常常受到的一种批评是，他对苹果感兴趣只是为了获取短线收益，这一批评常常令公众对伊坎产生怀疑。伊坎则否认这种说法。他在写给库克的信中说，“我在这里的动机没有任何短期的目的。”
One of the most public reactions to his plan on Thursday came from Bill Gross, who posted on Twitter criticizing Mr. Icahn’s plan.
他的计划在周四得到的最为公开的反应，来自比尔·格罗斯(Bill Gross)，他在Twitter上发言批评了伊坎的计划。
“Icahn should leave Apple alone and spend more time like Bill Gates,” Mr. Gross wrote, referring to the charity work that Mr. Gates, the founder of Microsoft, has devoted much of his life to. “If Icahn’s so smart, use it to help people not yourself.”
格罗斯写道，“伊坎应该放过苹果，多花一些时间学学比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)。”他指的是微软创始人盖茨花费大量精力从事的慈善工作。“既然伊坎这么聪明，就该用自己的聪明智慧多帮帮别人，而不是只顾自己。”