Investors love a good story.
投资者喜欢好故事。
They lined up hundreds deep at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel in New York earlier this month to hear Alibaba’s executive chairman, Jack Ma, promote the Chinese Internet retailer’s initial public offering.
本月早些时候，几百名投资者在纽约华尔道夫(Waldorf-Astoria)酒店排起长队，准备聆听阿里巴巴首席执行官马云(Jack Ma)为这家中国互联网零售商的IPO做推介。
“It was a zoo,” said Vincent Rivers, senior portfolio manager for the London-based investment firm J. O. Hambro Capital Management. “There must have been 400 people waiting in line. Everybody was there. It was like a social event.”
“当时这里就像是个动物园，”在伦敦的投资公司JO汉布罗资本管理(J. O. Hambro Capital Management)担任高级投资组合经理的文森特·里弗斯(Vincent Rivers)说。“排队的肯定有400人。所有人都在，仿佛是一场社交活动。”
The shy, somewhat awkward Mr. Ma opened by saying that he’d first come to the United States 15 years ago looking for about $2 million in capital. “Now,” he said, "I’m asking for slightly more.”
羞涩而略显局促的马云在开场白中说，15年前，他第一次来到美国，希望筹集200万美元（当时约合1660万元人民币）的资金。“如今，”他说，“我想筹的钱比这多一点点。”
The line drew a knowing laugh from the crowd — Alibaba was asking for nearly $22 billion, the biggest I.P.O. ever in the United States — but Mr. Ma should probably keep his day job. What the crowd really wanted to hear about was Alibaba’s growth, and Mr. Ma didn’t disappoint them.
由于事先了解，人群中传来笑声——阿里巴巴这次希望能筹集将近220亿美元，这是美国历史上规模最大的一次IPO。不过，马云毕竟不是笑星，这些人真正想听的，其实是阿里巴巴的增长情况，而马云并没有让他们失望。
A few vivid charts and statistics told the story. Alibaba is already the world’s largest Internet commerce company, with 231 million active buyers using its site, 11.3 billion annual orders and $296 billion in annual merchandise sales, a measure Alibaba uses instead of revenue.
几幅生动的图表和一些统计数据就概括了整个故事。阿里巴巴已经成为世界上最大的电子商务公司，使用其网站的活跃买家共有2.31亿人，每年的订单量为113亿，而年商品销售额则为2960亿美元——阿里巴巴没有使用营收作为衡量标准。
To put this in perspective, Amazon has less than $82 billion in revenue. EBay has just over $17 billion.
相比之下，亚马逊(Amazon)的营收还不到820亿美元，而eBay的则勉强超过170亿美元。
But what excites Alibaba’s potential investors isn’t only its size, but its prospects for getting bigger. China currently has 302 million Internet shoppers. That’s less than half the country’s 618 million Internet users. And Internet penetration in China is less than half the country’s population of about 1.35 billion. Competition from brick-and-mortar retailers in China is far less than in the United States, which should also drive increases in Internet shopping.
但是，让阿里巴巴的潜在投资者感到兴奋的并不仅仅是它的规模，而是其规模继续扩大的可能性。中国目前有3.02亿人在网上购物，还不到中国6.18亿互联网用户的一半。中国总人口约为13.5亿，而其互联网普及率还不到总人口的一半。与美国相比，在中国实体商店构成的竞争远没有那么激烈，这个因素也可能会增加网络购物量。
“The potential is absolutely massive,” Mr. Rivers said. “The real question isn’t whether they’ll have more users. It’s how much will they spend.” Chinese Internet shoppers spend far less per person than in the United States. “If you look long term and they can close that gap, you can get to some huge numbers,” he said.
“潜力绝对巨大，”里弗斯说。“真正的问题不是他们的用户是否会增加，而是这些用户会花多少钱。”中国网购人群的人均消费额比美国少得多。他说，“如果从长期来看，他们能缩小这个差距，那么就能得到巨大的回报。”
Alibaba also has enviably high profit margins of more than 40 percent, which even by Internet standards, let alone retail, is extraordinary. Amazon has struggled for decades to eke out a slender profit. EBay has an operating margin of 20 percent and Google 23 percent.
阿里巴巴的利润率超过了40%，即便以互联网行业的标准衡量，这个比率都高得令人艳羡，更别提零售行业了。数十年来，亚马逊苦心经营，也只能勉强维持较低的利润率；eBay营业利润率为20%，谷歌则为23%。
Alibaba is the dominant e-commerce company in China by far, which, along with the high margins, suggests that it’s the kind of natural monopoly beloved by investors. Alibaba itself attributes this to the so-called network effect. “The interactions between buyers and sellers create network effects in that more merchants attract more consumers, and more consumers attract more merchants,” the company asserts in its prospectus.
阿里巴巴是中国目前占主导地位的电商公司，它的利润率很高，这都表明它属于投资者所喜爱的那种自然垄断。阿里巴巴认为这要归功于所谓的网络效应。公司在其招股书中称，“买家和卖家之间的互动创造了网络效应，商户越多就能吸引越多的消费者，而消费者越多也能吸引更多商户。”
And Alibaba keeps profits large by dispensing with the high-cost, low-margin businesses that have dogged Internet retailers in the United States. Alibaba is simply a platform for connecting buyers and sellers. “We do not engage in direct sales, compete with our merchants or hold inventory,” the prospectus notes.
阿里巴巴能维持高利润率，主要是靠回避困扰美国互联网零售商的一些高成本、低利润的业务。阿里巴巴只是一个联系买家和卖家的平台。招股书指出，“我们不参与直接销售、不与商户竞争，也没有任何存货。”
I was on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Friday morning, where the excitement of newly minted billions was palpable. The Alibaba trading station occupied the center of the floor, where it was surrounded by a throng of “V.I.P. guests” squeezed behind velvet ropes. The street outside was packed, the balconies were crowded with onlookers and cheers went up every time the indicated opening price was adjusted upward. Mr. Ma rang the opening bell and dropped in on the on-floor set of CNBC.
周五上午，我也在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)的现场，很明显，人们对于刚诞生的百亿美元财富深感兴奋。阿里巴巴的交易站占据了交易所现场的中心地带，一群“VIP来宾”挤在天鹅绒绳后面的。外面的街道上挤满了人，阳台上也满是围观者，每当开盘价上调，人群中就会传来欢呼声。马云按下开盘铃，并顺便在现场接受了CNBC的采访。
Alibaba was priced on Thursday night at $68 a share. And on Friday, pent-up demand drove the opening price to $92.70. The stock immediately rose from there and ended the day at $93.89.
周四夜间，阿里巴巴的发行价为每股68美元。周五，积蓄已久的需求使开盘价提高到了每股92.7美元。股价开始在此基础上迅速上升，当天收盘价为每股93.89美元。
Perhaps some stocks should reflect what I’ll call an “excitement premium,” which in Alibaba’s case is surely significant. That’s fine until the excitement wears off. For a more sobering view, I turned to Bruce Greenwald, co-author of “Competition Demystified” and “Value Investing,” and a finance professor at Columbia Business School. Value investors like Professor Greenwald, by nature, tend to be skeptical of stories, especially when those stories are as rosy as Alibaba’s. Still, Professor Greenwald said he agreed with much of the Alibaba thesis. “There’s no doubt they benefit from a network effect and they have growth potential,” he said.
或许，一些股票能反映出我所说的“兴奋溢价”。阿里巴巴上市的过程中，兴奋溢价肯定很明显，这种情况会一直持续到兴奋逐渐消退。为了听到更清醒的观点，我找到了《揭开竞争的面纱》(Competition Demystified)和《价值投资》(Value Investing)的合著者、哥伦比亚大学商学院(Columbia Business School)金融教授布鲁斯·格林沃尔德(Bruce Greenwald)。像格林沃尔德这样的价值投资者，生性倾向于对故事持怀疑态度，尤其是那些故事像阿里巴巴的情况一样乐观时。然而格林沃尔德表示，自己认同阿里巴巴的许多说法。“毫无疑问，他们得益于网络效应，有增长潜力，”他说。
But value investors tend to prefer numbers to words, and Alibaba’s numbers, impressive as they are, may give some investors pause.
但价值投资者倾向于更相信数据，而非说辞。而阿里巴巴的数据尽管令人印象深刻，却也可能让部分投资者迟疑。
At $68 a share, Alibaba’s market capitalization is about $168 billion. It’s hard to find a United States company that’s directly comparable, but Professor Greenwald said eBay comes the closest. Like Alibaba, it has an auction site that benefits from a powerful network effect, it offers a vast e-commerce site and it has a pay system, PayPal. (While Alibaba spun off its payment system, Alipay, Alibaba will get a share of the proceeds from any sale or public offering of Alipay.) EBay’s market capitalization is about $65 billion.
按68美元的股价计算，阿里巴巴的市值约为1680亿美元。很难找到一家可以直接与其相提并论的美国公司，但格林沃尔德说，eBay是最接近的。和阿里巴巴一样，eBay拥有一个得益于强大的网络效应的拍卖网站，还有一个品类广泛的电商网站，以及支付系统PayPal。（尽管阿里巴巴剥离了自己的支付系统支付宝，但如果支付宝出售或上市，阿里巴巴依然能够获益。）EBay的市值约为650亿美元。
Of course, eBay doesn’t dominate e-commerce in the United States to the degree that Alibaba does in China. But is it reasonable to assume such dominance will persist as the Chinese market matures? No one company dominates e-commerce in the United States or in Europe, and none are as large as old-economy Walmart. China may now be underserved by national brick-and-mortar chains, but that could change. Professor Greenwald said he believed that Alibaba deserved a premium to eBay — perhaps twice eBay’s market capitalization. “But three times? That’s really pushing it,” he said.
当然，eBay并没有以阿里巴巴对中国电商行业那样的主导程度，主导美国的电商业。但随着中国市场的成熟，认为这种主导地位会持续下去的想法合理吗？在美国和欧洲，没有哪家公司在电商领域占据着主导地位，也没有哪家企业的规模能像传统经济模式下的沃尔玛(Walmart)那么大。或许，全国性实体连锁品牌的服务还满足不了中国的需求，但这种情况可能会发生改变。格林沃尔德表示，他认为阿里巴巴市值高于eBay——或许是eBay市值的两倍——实至名归。“但三倍呢？真的有些牵强，”他说。
Then, there‘s the most common valuation metric, the price-to-earnings ratio. At $68 a share, Alibaba’s is just over 40. EBay had a loss in its most recent quarter, so it has no P/E ratio. But over eBay’s life as a publicly traded company, its P/E ratio has averaged a little over 26.
然后便是最常见的估值指标市盈率。按每股68美元计算，阿里巴巴的市盈率略高于40倍。在上一个季度，eBay属于亏损，因此不存在市盈率。但纵观eBay上市以来，其平均市盈率略高于26倍。
No Chinese Internet company is quite like Alibaba, so comparisons with Chinese stocks are difficult. But Baidu, China’s version of Google, which also benefits from network effects and the growth in Chinese Internet use, has a market capitalization of about $80 billion, and a P/E ratio of 45. Tencent Holdings, which is classified as social media rather than e-commerce, although it has elements of both, is even further afield. Its market capitalization of $147 billion is also smaller than Alibaba’s, although its P/E ratio is a steep 51.
也没有哪家中国互联网公司很像阿里巴巴，因此很难将其和中国公司的股票进行比较。但中国版的谷歌(Google)百度的市值约为800亿美元，市盈率为45倍。百度同样获益于网络效应，以及中国互联网使用量的扩大。尽管兼具两方面的元素，但却被归为社交媒体，而非电商企业的腾讯和阿里巴巴的差别更大。腾讯的市值为1470亿美元，同样低于阿里巴巴，但其市盈率却高达51倍。
Alibaba’s valuation may not be outrageous, but to Professor Greenwald, these comparisons are “pretty scary.” He added, “There’s a lot of hype in Alibaba, and that’s what you’re seeing in the price.”
阿里巴巴的估值可能不会太令人震惊，但对格林沃尔德教授而言，这些比较“相当吓人”。他接着说，“阿里巴巴受到了大量炒作，这是能从股价上看出来的。”
That doesn’t change the Alibaba story, and sometimes a story is enough. Amazon is the leading example, a company that barely earns a profit and drives value investors crazy. Its market capitalization is $150 billion, nearly as big as Alibaba’s, and its P/E ratio is over 500. Investors buy the Amazon story, which is that Internet commerce dominance is just over the horizon, along with huge profits.
但这不会改变阿里巴巴的故事，有时候一个故事就已足够。几乎不盈利，但却让价值投资者趋之若狂的亚马逊就是个很好的例子。其市值为1500亿美元，几乎可以比肩阿里巴巴，市盈率超过500倍。投资者相信亚马逊说的，即互联网商业的主导地位，以及高额的利润近在咫尺。