If the initial summary of China’s highly anticipated economic policy plan disappointed analysts last week, the far more detailed plan that was released by the Chinese authorities late on Friday more than made up for it.
如果说上周初发布的备受期待的中国经济政策方案的概要让分析人士失望的话，那么上周五官方发布的更详细计划则大大弥补了概要的不足。
The reaction among investors and analysts to the more than 21,000-character document that laid out the Chinese Communist Party’s decisions on how to overhaul the Chinese economy was overwhelmingly positive.
投资者和分析人士对这个超过2.1万字的文件反应非常积极，文件列出了中国共产党有关如何改革经济的决定。
‘‘The breadth of the reform plan has certainly exceeded most expectations,’’ commented Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS.
瑞银(UBS)首席中国经济学家汪涛评论说：“这个改革方案涉及之广显然超出了大多数人的预期。”
The document, said the China economists at Goldman Sachs, ‘‘showed high reform conviction and lifted reform expectations and targets.’’
高盛(Goldman Sachs)的中国经济学家说，文件“显示出改革的高度决心，提升了改革的预期与目标”。
And Yao Wei, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Société Générale, said, ‘‘The new leaders really delivered and promised a number of concrete changes. China’s reform boat has finally set sail.’’
法国兴业银行(Société Générale)驻香港经济学家姚炜说：“新一届领导人果真列出并承诺了不少具体的改革措施。中国改革的航船终于重新扬起了风帆。”
The stock markets echoed the overall sentiment: By early Monday afternoon, the Shanghai composite index was up 1.4 percent, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong, where many mainland companies are listed, gained 2.2 percent. On Friday, both had risen 1.7 percent in anticipation of more details on the meetings.
股票市场附和了这种总体情绪：到周一下午早些时候，上证综指上涨了1.4%，香港恒生指数上涨了2.2%，很多大陆公司都在香港上市。上周五，这两个指数对三中全会更详细的信息已有预期，分别上涨了1.7%。
In part, the cheer stemmed from the fact that the initial communiqué from the closed-door meeting of top party policy makers released on Tuesday last week — about 5,000 characters shorter than the final ‘‘decisions’’ document — had been vaguely worded, replete with platitudes, short of detail and almost bound to disappoint.
这些欢呼声部分是因为上周二党的高层决策者在闭门会议之后发布的最初公报用词模糊、充满陈词滥调、缺少具体细节，几乎一定会让人失望，公报比最终的《决定》少约5000字。
The longer outline released three days later ‘‘swept away the haze of disappointing ambiguity’’ of that initial communiqué, said Zhu Haibin, the chief China economist at JPMorgan.
三天后发布的更长大纲把最初公报的“令人失望的迷雾一扫而光”，摩根大通(JPMorgan)首席中国经济学家朱海斌这样说。
It addresses a wide range of issues — including changes to the long-standing one-child policy, land rights, price liberalization and the role of the markets in the largely state-dominated economy.
《决定》涉及到一系列的问题：包括存在已久的独生子女政策的改变、土地权利、价格自由化、以及市场在由国家占主导地位的经济中的作用，等等。
For our full coverage, click here.
我们对此进行了全面报道，请见此处。
Many of these topics had been discussed at great length and widely telegraphed in the months before the party meeting.
其中的许多议题都曾引起人们热烈讨论，并在三中全会召开前的几个月里就广为人知。
‘‘But seeing them all in one document, backed by a clear sense of urgency, is heartening,’’ Stephen Green, an economist at Standard Chartered, wrote in a note on Monday.
 “但是，把这些问题都写进一个文件，而且赋之与紧迫感，这很振奋人心”，渣打银行(Standard Chartered)经济学家王志浩(Stephen Green)周一在一份简报中这样写道。
There were some disappointments. Many economists highlighted an apparent lack of determination to reduce the dominance that state-owned enterprises, or S.O.E.’s, hold in many areas of the Chinese economy.
但也有让人失望之处。很多经济学家指出这份文件中看似在一个方面缺乏决心：减少国有企业在中国经济很多领域中的主导地位。
‘‘S.O.E. reform appears timid, reflecting the old thinking that the state ownership should remain as the mainstream,’’ the team at Citigroup said in a note. ‘‘Without forcing S.O.E.’s out of the competitive industries, private companies will continue to find themselves at a disadvantaged position in acquiring natural and financial resources.’’
花旗集团(Citigroup)的一个团队在一份简报中说：“对国有企业的改革表现怯懦，这反应出一种旧观念，那就是国家所有权仍应占主导地位。如果不迫使国有企业退出竞争性的行业，私有企业在获取自然资源和金融资源上仍将处于不利地位。”
And the usual cautions on the challenges of actually implementing the mandated changes remain firmly in place, analysts said.
而且，真正实现《决定》要求的变化所面临的挑战，让人们牢记着惯常的警告，分析人士说。
Many of the overhauls will take months, if not years, to implement, and many could run into opposition from officials and businesses who are eager to preserve the status quo.
其中的许多改革措施实施起来要几个月，甚至几年的时间，还有许多改革措施可能会遇到来自那些要维持现状的官员和商人的阻碍。
‘‘Whether or not the Plenum ends up a turning point in China’s development depends on how well reforms are implemented,’’ said the team at Capital Economics.
“此次三中全会能否成为中国发展中的一个转折点还要视改革的实施情况而定，”凯投宏观(Capital Economics)的一个团队表示。
Over all, though, they added, ‘‘we can’t help feeling more upbeat about the prospects for China’s long-term economic future than we have ever been.’’
但他们补充说，从整体来看，“我们不禁对中国经济的长期前景感到前所未有的振奋。”