The spread of the deadly Ebola virus in West Africa and the slow international response has led to increasing calls for China, Africa’s biggest trading partner, to do more to help contain the epidemic.
致命的埃博拉病毒在西非蔓延，而国际社会反映迟缓，这使得越来越多人向中国呼吁，去采取更多措施来帮助控制疫情的蔓延。中国是非洲最大的贸易伙伴。
The pressure on China highlights the country’s changing international status. As the world’s second-largest economy, it is expected to take on more of the burden of responding to international crises. But it is still a developing nation, poorer per capita than the United States, Japan or European Union countries.
中国承受的压力突显了中国国际地位的转变。作为世界第二大经济体，人们期待中国肩负起应对国际危机的更大责任。但中国仍然是一个发展中国家，人均收入低于美国、日本和欧盟国家。
On Tuesday, China announced that it was sending a mobile lab with 59 experts to Sierra Leone, the third team it has dispatched to the country. Over the past month, China has contributed $37 million in food, medical supplies and cash to help African countries and aid organizations combat the disease.
周二，中国宣布将向塞拉利昂派遣一个由59名专家组成的移动实验室，这是中国向该国派出的第三组专家。过去一个月里，中国提供了价值3700万美元（约2.3亿元人民币）的食品、医疗用品和资金，来帮助非洲国家及援助组织对抗疫情。
The United Nations said on Tuesday that it would cost nearly $1 billion to contain the disease, which has killed more than 2,400 people thus far. Half of the cases have come in the past three weeks, according to the World Health Organization, with Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone hardest hit by the accelerating outbreak.
联合国周二表示，控制疫情蔓延可能需要将近10亿美元，目前已有超过2400人因为埃博拉疫情丧生。世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)数据显示，有半数的病例是在过去三周中产生的，疫情蔓延的加速对几内亚、利比里亚、塞拉利昂的冲击最为严重。
The United States, which has been criticized for not doing more to help control the spread of the disease, announced a dramatic increase in support on Tuesday. The United States military will send 3,000 personnel to combat what President Obama called “an epidemic of the likes that we have not seen before.” The United States Agency for International Development said that it had spent more than $100 million on protective equipment and relief supplies and planned to budget another $75 million. The Department of Defense is preparing to budget an additional $500 million toward the effort.
美国此前被人批评，没有采取更多措施控制疫情蔓延，但周二，美国宣布会大幅加强支持力度。美国军方将派遣3000名人员，对抗奥巴马总统所形容的“我们前所未见的那种流行病”。美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)称，已经提供了价值超过1亿美元的保护装备和救援物资，并打算再划拨7500万美元。国防部正准备再拨付5亿美元资金帮助控制疫情。
Following the American announcement, some commentators called for more support from China, which has extensive investments in natural resources and infrastructure development in Africa as well as a million of its citizens working there.
美国宣布上述举措之后，一些评论人士呼吁，中国也应给出更多支持，中国在非洲的自然资源和基础设施建设领域有广泛的投资，此外还有一百万中国公民在非洲工作。
China has pointed out its long-running contributions to public health in Africa. A State Council white paper last month said that China had 43 medical teams in 42 African countries, had aided in the construction of 30 hospitals and 30 malaria prevention centers, and had contributed $130 million worth of medical supplies.
中国指出，自己长期以来一直在支持非洲的公共卫生。中国国务院上个月发布的白皮书表示，中国在42个非洲国家派驻了43支医疗队，对30家医院、30家疟疾预防中心的建设提供了帮助，并提供了价值1.3亿美元的医疗用品。