Two studies of malnourished children offer the first new scientific findings in a decade about the causes and treatment of severe malnutrition, which afflicts more than 20 million children around the world and contributes to the deaths of more than a million a year. Merely giving children a cheap antibiotic along with the usual nutritional treatment could save tens of thousands of lives a year, researchers found.
两项针对营养不良儿童进行的研究，十年来首次得出了有关恶性营养不良的病因及治疗方法的新科学发现。世界各地有超过2000万儿童遭受营养不良的折磨，每年导致的儿童死亡人数超过100万。研究人员发现，只要让儿童服用廉价的抗生素，再加上平常的营养治疗，每年就可能挽救数以万计儿童的生命。
The studies, in Malawi, led by scientists from Washington University in St. Louis, reveal that severe malnutrition often involves more than a lack of food, and that feeding alone may not cure it.
这两项研究由圣路易斯华盛顿大学(Washington University in St. Louis)的科学家牵头，在马拉维(Malawi)开展。结果显示，恶性营养不良通常不只是缺乏食物造成的，因而仅靠补充食物可能无法将之治愈。
The antibiotic study found that a week of the medicine raised survival and recovery rates when given at the start of a longer course of a tasty “therapeutic food” made from peanut butter fortified with milk powder, oil, sugar and micronutrients. Malnourished children are prone to infections, and the drugs — either amoxicillin or cefdinir — were so helpful that researchers said medical practice should change immediately to include an antibiotic in the routine treatment of severe malnutrition.
抗生素研究的结果表明，在儿童食用美味的“治疗性食品”的初始阶段，让他们服用一周的抗生素将提高其存活率和康复率。同时，治疗性食品的疗程也要更长一些，食品则是混入奶粉、油、糖及微量营养元素的花生酱。营养不良的儿童易受感染，这些药物——无论是阿莫西林(amoxicillin)还是头孢地尼(cefdinir)——十分有效，研究人员据此表示，应当立即改变现在的治疗方法，在针对恶性营养不良的常规治疗中加入一种抗生素。
“This is ready for prime time,” said Dr. Indi Trehan, the first author of the study. The study was published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine. The senior author is Dr. Mark J. Manary, an expert on malnutrition and one of the pioneers in using the fortified peanut butter, which researchers say has saved countless lives.
研究论文的第一作者因迪·特雷汉博士(Indi Trehan)说，“大幅推广的时机已经成熟。”文章于周三发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上。营养不良领域的专家马克·J·马纳瑞博士(Mark J. Manary)是本论文的资深作者，也是使用强化花生酱的先驱人物之一。研究人员称，强化花生酱已经挽救了无数人的生命。
Because of the results, the World Health Organization expects to recommend broader use of antibiotics in new guidelines on treating malnutrition that are to be issued next month, said Zita Weise Prinzo, a technical officer in the organization’s nutrition department. A week’s worth of drugs costs only a few dollars, so governments and donors are likely to accept the idea, researchers say.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)营养部技术官员齐塔·魏泽·普林佐(Zita Weise Prinzo)表示，鉴于以上研究结果，世界卫生组织将在下月发布的营养不良治疗新指导方针中推荐更广泛地使用抗生素。研究人员表示，一周的药物只需要几美元，所以政府和捐赠者都可能会接受这种方法。
The second study shows, for the first time, that an imbalance in bacterial populations in the gut may contribute to a severe form of malnutrition called kwashiorkor.
第二项研究首次发现，肠内菌群失调可能会导致一种叫做夸休可尔症(kwashiorkor)的恶性营养不良病。
And it found that the fortified peanut butter could help restore the proper balance. But the senior author of the study, Dr. Jeffrey I. Gordon, said that for the improvement to last, it may be necessary to continue the feeding for longer than the few months that is now customary. The study was published on Wednesday in the journal Science.
研究发现，强化花生酱能够帮助菌群恢复到合适的均衡状态。但该研究论文的资深作者杰弗里·I·戈登博士(Jeffrey I. Gordon)表示，为了达到持久改善的目的，可能有必要打破从前的惯例，将时长为几个月的治疗性食品疗程延长。《科学》杂志(Science)于周三刊登了这篇研究论文。
A researcher not involved in the study, Dr. David Relman, of Stanford University, who wrote a commentary in Science, called the findings remarkable, and said they provided hope for better treatments for malnutrition.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的研究人员大卫·雷尔曼博士(David Relman)没有参与此项研究，他在《科学》杂志上发表评论文章称，这些研究结果意义非凡，并表示它们为更好地治疗营养不良带来了希望。
The experiment by Dr. Trehan and his colleagues involved 2,767 children, 6 months to 5 years old, who had a condition called severe acute malnutrition but were well enough to be treated as outpatients. All were given the enriched peanut butter and were assigned at random to receive an antibiotic or a placebo for one week.
2767名6个月到5岁的儿童参加了特雷汉博士及其同事的实验。这些孩子都患有急性的恶性营养不良症，但都情况尚可，可以被界定为不需住院的门诊病人。他们都服用添加了其他营养成分的花生酱，随机被抽取服用一周的抗生素或安慰剂。
The researchers tracked rates of recovery and of death. In the placebo group, 7.4 percent of the children died, compared with only 4.1 percent taking cefdinir and 4.8 percent taking amoxicillin. The figures mean that for every 100 children treated, two to three lives could be saved; treating a million could save more than 20,000.
研究人员追踪分析了他们的康复率及死亡率。服用安慰剂的那组儿童，7.4%死亡。而服用头孢地尼的儿童仅有4.1%死亡，服用阿莫西林的儿童仅有4.8%死亡。这些数字表明，每治疗100名儿童，可以挽救两到三条生命；每治疗1百万名，可以救活2万多。
Antibiotics also helped the children recover from malnutrition. Of those taking placebos, 85.1 percent recovered, compared with 88.7 percent taking amoxicillin and 90.9 percent taking cefdinir. In the children who recovered, the ones taking antibiotics had a higher rate of weight gain.
抗生素也能帮助营养不良的儿童康复。服用安慰剂的儿童，85.1%康复了，而服用阿莫西林的儿童有88.7%康复，服用头孢地尼的儿童则有90.9%康复。在康复儿童中，服用抗生素的儿童增重的速率更高。
The researchers were surprised to find that the drugs helped so much and are not sure how to explain it, Dr. Trehan said. But malnutrition and infection can become a vicious cycle, with damage to the intestine disrupting the ability to absorb food and also allowing bacteria to leak into the bloodstream and cause severe illness.
特雷汉博士说，研究人员很惊讶地发现药效如此之好，但不确定如何解释这种现象。不过，营养不良和感染可以导致恶性循环，因为肠部损伤会干扰食物吸收功能，并且使得细菌渗入血液，招致重病。
“By a week or two of treatment you see these kids gaining incredible amounts of weight,” Dr. Trehan said, adding that the week of antibiotics seemed to make a big difference. Although there is concern that overuse of antibiotics can produce drug-resistant strains of bacteria, he said that weeklong treatment in these cases was unlikely to cause that problem.  
“治疗不到一两周时间，就能看到孩子们的体重出现了不可思议的增长，”特雷汉博士说。他还说，一周的抗生素摄入似乎起了重大作用。尽管有滥用抗生素会导致细菌抗药性的担忧，但他称，这些案例中的一周治疗不会导致这种问题。
The second study focused on children with kwashiorkor, which the researchers called “enigmatic” and “virulent.” These children often have bulging, distended bellies and spindly arms and legs, but with swelling under the skin. 
第二项研究关注的是患有夸休可尔症的儿童。研究人员称，这种病“神秘”而“致命”。患病儿童往往腹部肿胀隆起，四肢细长，但皮下有肿胀情况。
The researchers were interested in the makeup of the trillions of bacteria that inhabit the gut — the so-called microbiome — and that aid in metabolism, and make some needed vitamins and amino acids. The team studied twins in their first three years of life, including pairs in which one had kwashiorkor and the other did not.
研究人员对肠道中生长的数以亿计的菌群（称为“微生物菌落”）的构成感兴趣。它们协助新陈代谢，并制造出一些必需的维生素和氨基酸。研究小组考察了三岁以内的双胞胎，包括一些双胞胎中仅一人患夸休可尔症的案例。
Fecal samples revealed that the children with kwashiorkor had a different, less diverse microbiome than the healthy children. The bacterial mix in their gut became healthier when they were fed the enriched peanut butter — but reverted when the supplement was stopped and the children went back to their usual starchy diets.
粪便样品揭示出，患有夸休可尔症的儿童的微生物菌落与健康儿童有所区别，且多样性更低。喂食强化花生酱后，他们的肠内菌群变得更健康了，不过一旦供应终止，儿童回到惯常的高淀粉食谱后，就会恢复原状。
All the children were treated with the enriched peanut butter, and all improved.
所有的儿童都接受了强化花生酱的治疗，而且所有人都有所改善。