San Francisco
旧金山
SCIENTISTS at the Food and Drug Administration systematically monitor the meat and poultry sold in supermarkets around the country for the presence of disease-causing bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics. These food products are bellwethers that tell us how bad the crisis of antibiotic resistance is getting. And they’re telling us it’s getting worse.
美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）的研究人员对国内各大超市出售的肉类和家禽产品进行全面监测，以了解对抗生素有耐药性的致病细菌的情况。这类食品是一种风向标，能够告诉我们抗生素耐药性危机变得多严重。结果显示，情况越来越糟。
But this is only part of the story. While the F.D.A. can see what kinds of antibiotic-resistant bacteria are coming out of livestock facilities, the agency doesn’t know enough about the antibiotics that are being fed to these animals. This is a major public health problem, because giving healthy livestock these drugs breeds superbugs that can infect people. We need to know more about the use of antibiotics in the production of our meat and poultry. The results could be a matter of life and death.
但这只是故事的一部分。虽然FDA能够了解家畜养殖场产生的耐药细菌的种类，但该机构却不太了解给动物喂食抗生素的情况。这是一个重大的公共卫生问题，因为给健康的家畜喂食这些药品会产生超级细菌，而这些细菌能够传染给人类。我们需要更多地了解肉类及家畜食品生产过程中抗生素的使用情况。结果可能事关生死。
In 2011, drugmakers sold nearly 30 million pounds of antibiotics for livestock — the largest amount yet recorded and about 80 percent of all reported antibiotic sales that year. The rest was for human health care. We don’t know much more except that, rather than healing sick animals, these drugs are often fed to animals at low levels to make them grow faster and to suppress diseases that arise because they live in dangerously close quarters on top of one another’s waste.
2011年，制药商出售了将近3000万磅用于家畜的抗生素，创下历史最高纪录。此类抗生素在2011年上报的抗生素总销售量中占据了大约80%，剩下的是用于人类医疗保健的抗生素。这些药物不是用于治愈患病动物，而是通常被以低剂量喂给幼畜，以使其快速生长，并抑制因近距离接触彼此的粪便而引发的疾病。除此之外，我们所知甚少。
It may sound counterintuitive, but feeding antibiotics to livestock at low levels may do the most harm. When he accepted the Nobel Prize in 1945 for his discovery of penicillin, Alexander Fleming warned that “there is the danger that the ignorant man may easily underdose himself and by exposing his microbes to nonlethal quantities of the drug make them resistant.” He probably could not have imagined that, one day, we would be doing this to billions of animals in factorylike facilities.
这听起来可能有点违背常理，但给幼畜喂食低剂量的抗生素可能会带来最大的危害。1945年，亚历山大·弗莱明(Alexander Fleming)因发现青霉素接受诺贝尔奖时曾警告说，“存在这样一种危险，无知的人可能很容易用药不足，当剂量不足无法杀死体内的细菌时，这些细菌就会产生耐药性。”他可能无法想象，有一天，我们会这样对待工厂式养殖场里数以亿计的动物。
The F.D.A. started testing retail meat and poultry for antibiotic-resistant bacteria in 1996, shortly before my term as commissioner ended. The agency’s most recent report on superbugs in our meat, released in February and covering retail purchases in 2011, was 82 pages long and broke down its results by four different kinds of meat and poultry products and dozens of species and strains of bacteria.
FDA从1996年开始对零售肉类和家禽中的抗生素耐药细菌进行检测，不久后，我就结束了自己的局长任期。FDA最近一份有关肉类超级细菌的报告共有82页，报告分析了四种不同的肉类和家畜产品，以及数十种细菌的检测结果。FDA在2月份发布了这份关于2011年报告。
It was not until 2008, however, that Congress required companies to tell the F.D.A. the quantity of antibiotics they sold for use in agriculture. The agency’s latest report, on 2011 sales and also released in February, was just four pages long — including the cover and two pages of boilerplate. There was no information on how these drugs were administered or to which animals and why.
但直到2008年，国会才要求相关公司告知FDA他们出售了多少用于农业的抗生素。FAD在2月份还发表了一份涵盖2011年抗生素销售情况的最新报告，该报告只有四页，除去封皮外，其他两页都是陈词滥调。报告没有说明如何使用抗生素、对哪种动物使用及使用原因。
We have more than enough scientific evidence to justify curbing the rampant use of antibiotics for livestock, yet the food and drug industries are not only fighting proposed legislation to reduce these practices, they also oppose collecting the data. Unfortunately, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, as well as the F.D.A., is aiding and abetting them.
我们有太多科学证据证明，应该控制对家畜滥用抗生素的行为。但食品和药品行业不仅反对旨在减少此类行为的提案，他们还对数据的收集表示反对。遗憾的是，美国参议院卫生、教育、劳工和退休金委员会(Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions)及FDA在帮助和纵容它们。
The Senate committee recently approved the Animal Drug User Fee Act, a bill that would authorize the F.D.A. to collect fees from veterinary-drug makers to finance the agency’s review of their products. Public health experts had urged the committee to require drug companies to provide more detailed antibiotic sales data to the agency. Yet the F.D.A. stood by silently as the committee declined to act, rejecting a modest proposal from Senators Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and Dianne Feinstein of California, both Democrats, that required the agency to report data it already collects but does not disclose.
该参议院委员会近期批准了《兽药用户收费法》(Animal Drug User Fee Act)，该法案将会批准FDA向兽药公司收费，为该机构检查其产品提供资金。公共卫生专家曾敦促该委员会要求制药公司为FDA提供更详细的抗生素销售数据。但当该委员会拒绝采取举措时，FDA默不作声。该委员会还拒绝了纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten E. Gillibrand)及加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)提出的温和建议，她们要求FDA上报已经获取，但尚未公布的数据。
In the House, Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Louise M. Slaughter of New York, also Democrats, have introduced a more comprehensive measure. It would not only authorize the F.D.A. to collect more detailed data from drug companies, but would also require food producers to disclose how often they fed antibiotics to animals at low levels to make them grow faster and to offset poor conditions.
在众议院，加利福尼亚州民主党众议员亨利·韦克斯曼(Henry Waxman)及纽约州民主党众议员路易丝·M·斯特劳(Louise M. Slaughter)提出了一项更为全面的措施，不仅准许FDA从制药公司获取更详细的数据，还可以要求食品生产者透露他们对幼畜喂食低剂量抗生素的频率。这种喂食的目的是帮助动物快速生长，抵消恶劣生长环境带来的影响。
This information would be particularly valuable to the F.D.A., which asked drugmakers last April to voluntarily stop selling antibiotics for these purposes. The agency has said it would mandate such action if those practices persisted, but it has no data to determine whether the voluntary policy is working. The House bill would remedy this situation, though there are no Republican sponsors.
对FDA来说，这个信息特别重要，FDA在去年4月要求制药商自行停止出售用于上述用途的抗生素。FDA曾表示，如果他们继续出售，该机构将会采取强制措施，但FDA没有相关数据，无法确认自愿政策是否有效。众议院的法案将会改变这一局面，但其发起人中没有共和党人。
Combating resistance requires monitoring both the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in our food, as well as the use of antibiotics on livestock. In human medicine, hospitals increasingly track resistance rates and antibiotic prescription rates to understand how the use of these drugs affects resistance. We need to cover both sides of this equation in agriculture, too.
解决耐药性问题需要对食物中的抗生素耐药细菌的情况，以及对家畜使用抗生素的情况进行监管。在人类用药方面，医院在逐渐加强对抗药性比率及抗生素处方比率的追踪，以便了解这些药物的使用如何对抗药性产生影响。现在，我们也需要在农业中对这两方面的信息进行跟踪。
I appreciate that not every lawmaker is as convinced as I am that feeding low-dose antibiotics to animals is a recipe for disaster. But most, if not all of them, recognize that we are facing an antibiotic resistance crisis, as evidenced by last year’s bipartisan passage of a measure aimed at fighting superbugs by stimulating the development of new antibiotics that treat serious infections. Why are lawmakers so reluctant to find out how 80 percent of our antibiotics are used?
我完全了解，并非每一位议员都像我这么确信，给动物喂食小剂量抗生素是一个招致灾难的做法。但大部分议员承认（虽然不是全部），我们正面临着抗生素耐药性危机，去年两党通过的一项旨在对抗超级细菌的举措就体现了这一点，该举措鼓励研发治疗严重传染疾病的新抗生素。可为什么议员们不愿查明80%的抗生素的使用情况呢？
We cannot avoid tough questions because we’re afraid of the answers. Lawmakers must let the public know how the drugs they need to stay well are being used to produce cheaper meat.
我们不能因为害怕知道答案就回避一些棘手问题。议员们必须让公众了解，他们用来保障身体健康的药物正如何被用来生产便宜的肉类产品。