Iceland’s government announced plans to eradicate gender pay disparities by 2022. Four Russian feminist activists unfurled a giant poster outside the Kremlin in Moscow, denouncing the patriarchy (they were arrested). India’s prime minister honored a symbol of rural women’s aspirations for dignity and self-sufficiency — the toilet. The Egyptian authorities said they would allow female prisoners an extra family visit this month.
冰岛政府宣布了在2022年前消除因性别所导致的薪资不平等的方案。在莫斯科，四名俄罗斯女权主义活动人士在克里姆林宫外面展开一幅巨型海报，谴责男性统治（她们后来被捕）。印度总理表彰了乡村女性渴望尊严和自立的象征——厕所。埃及当局表示将允许女性囚犯在本月有一次额外的家人探视。
The events were all centered on International Women’s Day on Wednesday, and people and governments across the globe observed it in an outpouring of support for women’s equality and empowerment. But amid the celebrations, protests were brewing.
这些事都集中在周三国际妇女节这一天。全球民众和政府都在庆祝这一节日，支持女性的平等和赋权。但有人庆祝，也有人酝酿抗议。
In Buenos Aires, Argentina, small groups of women began taking to the streets at noon in preparation for a march later in the afternoon. Tens of thousands of people were expected to attend.
在阿根廷布宜诺斯艾利斯，由女性组成的小规模人群正午时分开始走上街头，为下午的游行做准备。预计会有数万人参加该游行。
Erika Monteiro, 30, a public-sector employee, decided to join a protest of about two dozen women outside Congress during her hourlong lunch break. “They are killing us,” Monteiro said, referring to the chilling statistic that a woman is killed in Argentina every 30 hours because of her gender. “We can’t get used to that as if it were normal.”
30岁的公营部门雇员埃丽卡·蒙泰罗(Erika Monteiro)决定在一个小时的午饭时间里，参加20多名女子在国会外面举行的一场抗议。“他们在杀死我们，”蒙泰罗说。她指的是一项令人毛骨悚然的统计数据：在阿根廷，每30个小时就有一名女性因为自己的性别而被杀害。“我们不能习以为常。”
Thousands marched in Rome on Wednesday evening, in what was the largest of dozens of demonstrations in various Italian cities.
周三晚上，成千上万人在罗马举行游行，这是意大利多座城市发生的数十场示威游行中规模最大的。
One of the most unusual events occurred in India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over a ceremony in honor of 10 women who had campaigned to improve rural sanitation. They included Sushila Khurkute, 30, who recently gained prominence when, seven months into her third pregnancy, she spent three solitary days chipping away at the rocky ground with a stick to make her family a toilet.
最为非同寻常的事情之一发生在印度。该国总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)主持了一场仪式，表彰10名为改善乡村卫生条件而四处活动的女性。她们中包括30岁的苏希拉·胡尔库特(Sushila Khurkute)。最近，她因为独自在三天时间里用一根棍子为家人在一片布满岩石的地上一小块一小块地凿出了一个厕所而声名远扬。当时，她第三胎已怀孕七个月了。
A group of UNICEF volunteers touring the area began documenting her efforts. The toilet, she told them, was crucial to the welfare of her child. Because women defecating in open fields are vulnerable to sexual assault, she said, she had starved herself during her two previous pregnancies, weakening her babies.
在该地区考察的一批联合国儿童基金会(UNICEF)志愿者开始记录她的努力。她对他们说，那个厕所对她孩子的幸福至关重要。她说，因为女性在户外上厕所容易受到性侵犯，前两次怀孕时她只好忍饥挨饿，导致孩子身体虚弱。
#ADayWithoutaWoman quickly became a popular hashtag on social media, calling on American women to participate in a national strike by taking the day off from work; not shopping (except in small businesses or female- or minority-owned stores); or wearing red in solidarity. The organizers of the Women’s March in Washington targeted the Trump International Hotel for a protest, and some were arrested.
#没有女性的一天迅速成了社交媒体上的热门标签，呼吁美国女性用罢工一天、不购物（除非是在小店铺和女性或少数族裔开的商店里）或统一穿红色衣服的方式，参加一场全国性的罢工。“女性向华盛顿进军”(Women's March on Washington)的组织者把特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)作为一场抗议的对象，部分人被捕。