WASHINGTON — Security surrounding the inauguration of Donald J. Trump is proving to be the most challenging in recent history, according to senior officials involved in its planning, largely because of the same forces of political rancor that shaped the race for the presidency.
华盛顿——据参与筹划的高级官员们称，目前看来唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)就职典礼的安保任务将是近年来最具挑战性的，这主要是因为在总统竞选期间结下的政治宿怨。
On top of the daunting threats to any inaugural ceremony, the three dozen agencies responsible for security at the Jan. 20 festivities are preparing for the possibility of large numbers of protesters flooding the capital, along with what may be nearly a million supporters of Mr. Trump.
除了所有就职典礼都存在的可怕威胁之外，负责1月20日庆典活动安全问题的30多个机构正在为大量抗议者可能涌入首都做准备——此外还有近100万名特朗普支持者。
The agencies are worried about the possibility of confrontations between groups of Americans still deeply divided over the election — and at a moment when millions of people around the world will be turning their attention to Washington. At the very least, officials said, protests would put additional pressure on the region’s already-stretched security apparatus.
这些机构担心，至今仍因选举而严重分裂的美国不同群体之间会发生冲突——与此同时，全世界的注意力届时都会转向华盛顿。官员们说，至少抗议会给该地区已经吃紧的安全设施增加额外的压力。
“To paraphrase Tolstoy: Each inauguration is risky, but each is risky in its own way,” said Michael Chertoff, who was secretary of homeland security under President George W. Bush and oversaw the department for President Obama’s first inauguration, in 2009.
“借用托尔斯泰的话说：每一次就职典礼都有风险，但每一次的风险各不相同，”曾担任乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)的国土安全部部长的迈克尔·切尔托夫(Michael Chertoff)说。2009年奥巴马总统首次就职典礼期间，他也是该部门的负责人。
“I can’t think of an inauguration that presented more security challenges than this one,” Mr. Chertoff said.
“我想不出有哪次就职典礼比这次的安全挑战更多，”切尔托夫说。
There were, of course, heightened concerns for the second inauguration of Mr. Bush, in 2005, the first presidential swearing-in to follow the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. And in 2009, Mr. Obama’s inauguration was the first transfer of power in the post-9/11 era — and the first in which an African-American was taking the oath of office. Mr. Obama faced a rash of racist threats, as well as concerns about a terrorist plot that ultimately proved unfounded but sent the president-elect and top aides scrambling on the eve of his swearing-in.
当然，2005年布什再次就职时曾引发严重担忧，因为它是2001年9·11袭击后的首次总统就职典礼。2009年，奥巴马的就职典礼是后9·11时代的第一次权力交接，也是首位非裔美国总统宣誓就职。当时奥巴马面临一系列种族主义威胁以及对恐怖袭击的担忧，后者令这位候任总统和高级助手们在就职前夕非常紧张，虽然最终证明那些担忧是毫无根据的。
Even so, Mr. Obama did not face the kind of large protests expected to greet Mr. Trump when he officially arrives in Washington. The 2009 crowd of nearly two million people, a record, included few, if any, protesters and did not lead to a single arrest, according to Christopher T. Geldart, the director of homeland security for the District of Columbia.
即便如此，奥巴马当时没有面临预计特朗普正式抵达华盛顿时会看到的那种大型抗议活动。据哥伦比亚特区国土安全局局长克里斯托弗·T·吉尔达特(Christopher T. Geldart)说，2009年创下纪录的200万人中几乎没有抗议者，没有人被逮捕。
The National Park Service, which controls much of the public land in Washington, from sidewalks to the National Mall, has already seen permit requests from groups hoping to host events both for and against Mr. Trump skyrocket to 23. In typical inauguration years, the agency receives just a handful of requests.
美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)掌管华盛顿的大部分公共用地，从人行道到国家广场(National Mall)。它收到的希望举办支持或反对特朗普活动的团体许可申请已暴涨至23个。在通常的就职典礼年，该机构只会收到几个申请。
Safeguarding the nation’s peaceful transfer of power is no easy task even under the most predictable of circumstances. There are few higher-profile rituals in American public life than the swearing-in of a new president.
即便在最可预测的情况下，维护国家权力的和平交接也不是一项轻松的任务。在美国的公共生活中，几乎没有比新总统宣誓就职更受瞩目的仪式了。
From the Metropolitan Police of Washington to the National Park Service to the F.B.I., a vast overlapping patchwork of intelligence analysts, military personnel and law enforcement officers numbering in the tens of thousands will be working to protect the inauguration and related activities.
从华盛顿的都会警察局(Metropolitan Police)到国家公园管理局到FBI，由数以万计的情报分析员、军事人员和执法人员组成的庞大、重叠的网络将努力保护就职典礼和相关活动。
In total, more than three dozen agencies spread out across the capital will be working to prevent the occasion from becoming a platform for individuals or groups looking to do harm. Their work, begun months ago, has taken on a new urgency since Election Day and will soon include the imposition of a security perimeter around the Capitol, the Mall and large parts of the city.
总而言之，遍布首都的30多个机构将努力防止这次活动成为个人或团体进行伤害的平台。他们的工作从几个月前就开始了，选举日之后变得更为紧迫，并将很快在国会大厦、国家广场和这座城市的大部分地区设置警戒线。
The costs of security alone are expected to exceed $100 million.
预计，仅安保费用就将超过1亿美元。
Protecting the new president, the thousands of dignitaries who will be on hand and the crowds is the top priority of federal intelligence, law enforcement and military agencies, as it has been at inaugurations since the Sept. 11 attacks. Threats, from abroad and from homegrown extremists alike, remain a chief concern, current and former officials said.
保护新总统以及在场成千上万的显要人物和民众是联邦情报机构、执法机构和军事机构的首要任务——9·11袭击以来的就职典礼一向如此。现任和前任官员们称，国外和本土极端分子的威胁仍是一项主要担忧。
“What the intelligence community says publicly is what they say privately, and that is more threats from more directions than ever before,” said Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, who is chairman of the congressional committee planning the inaugural ceremony. “And that just means the Capitol Police and the security elements need to be more thoughtful and alert than ever to what could happen.”
“情报机构公开说的话就是他们私下里说的话，而现在有来自更多方面的更多威胁，”密苏里州共和党参议员罗伊·布朗特(Roy Blunt)说。他是筹划这次就职典礼的国会委员会的主席。“那只是意味着，国会警察和安全机构需要对可能发生的事考虑得更周到，更警觉。”
Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, said the agency was “actively reviewing” permit requests, with a goal of trying to accommodate as many events as possible. Groups that are granted permits will be spaced out to try to prevent mixing, Mr. Geldart said. The largest of those events, the so-called Women’s March on Washington, was granted a permit for about 200,000 people to rally and then march in protest against Mr. Trump on Jan. 21, the day after the inauguration.
国家公园管理局发言人迈克·利特斯特(Mike Litterst)说，该机构正在“积极审查”许可申请，目的是尽可能多地安排活动场地。吉尔达特说，获得许可的团体将被隔开，以避免混到一起。这些活动中最大的一场是所谓的“华盛顿女性大游行”(Women’s March on Washington)，它已获得许可，将有约20万人在1月21日特朗普就职后的第二天进行集会游行，对他表示抗议。
Boris Epshteyn, the communications director for Mr. Trump’s inaugural planning committee, said the group welcomed the “free exercise” of First Amendment rights “as long as it is done peacefully and within all applicable laws, rules and regulations.”
特朗普就职典礼筹划委员会的通讯总监鲍里斯·爱泼斯坦(Boris Epshteyn)表示，该委员会欢迎“第一修正案”权利的“自由行使”，“只要是在所有适用法律、法规和管理条例的允许范围内和平行使”。
Just how many of Mr. Trump’s supporters will attend remains unclear. The planning committee said it was expecting two million to three million people. Such a crowd would be a record, though Mr. Geldart said his team had yet to see evidence that would cause it to revise its own estimates of 800,000 to 900,000 people.
尚不清楚特朗普的支持者会有多少来参加活动。筹划委员会预计会有200万至300万人。这个数字将打破记录，不过吉尔达特说，他的团队还要再看一些证据，可能导致预估数字降为80万至90万人。
The security effort will require virtually the full strength of the region’s law enforcement agencies, as well as significant reinforcements. More than 3,200 police officers from departments across the country and about 8,000 members of the National Guard will be on hand to help with basic crowd and traffic control around the city. An additional 5,000 active duty service members will be on hand to serve in ceremonial capacities.
这项安保工作将需要该地区执法机构的几乎全部力量，以及大量增援。来自美国各地各个部门的3200多名警察和约8000名国民警卫队(National Guard)队员将在本市各地现场协助基本的人群和交通控制。另有5000名现役军人将在典礼现场效力。