The National Basketball Association announced Thursday that it would not hold next season’s All-Star Game in Charlotte, N.C., the most significant fallout yet from state legislation that eliminated specific antidiscrimination protections for lesbians, gays and bisexuals.
全美篮球协会（National Basketball Association ，简称NBA）于周二宣布，将不在夏洛特市举办明年的全明星赛。这是北卡罗来纳州通过立法禁止了保护女同、男同、双性恋者的特定反歧视措施以来，这项法案带来的最严重后果。
The legislation, passed in March, also mandated that transgender people use public bathrooms that match their birth gender.
于今年3月通过的法案还规定，跨性别者不得使用与其出生性别不相符的公共卫生间。
The law created an immediate backlash and raised speculation that the N.B.A., the North American professional league now most identified with engagement on social issues, would conclude that it had no choice but to move the game.
该法案立即招致强烈反弹，并令人猜想，作为当下最热衷于参与社会议题的北美职业体育联盟，NBA别无选择，只能将比赛移至别处举行。
In a statement accompanying the announcement, the league said it hoped to hold the 2019 All-Star Game in Charlotte — with the clear implication that changes to the legislation would have to be made — and that a new site for the 2017 game would be announced in the next several weeks. The game had been scheduled for Feb. 19 at Time Warner Cable Arena.
在宣布这一消息的同时，NBA发表了一份声明，说它希望能在夏洛特举办2019年的全明星赛——意思显然是，法案必须得到修正——2017年全明星赛的举办地点则会在未来几周内公布。该赛事原定于2月19日在时代华纳有线球场(Time Warner Cable Arena)举行。
Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina issued a blistering statement soon after the announcement by the N.B.A. He said “the sports and entertainment elite,” among others, had “misrepresented our laws and maligned the people of North Carolina simply because most people believe boys and girls should be able to use school bathrooms, locker rooms and showers without the opposite sex present.”
NBA宣布这一消息后，北卡罗来纳州州长帕特·麦克罗里(Pat McCrory)很快便发出了一份言辞激烈的声明。他说，“体育界和娱乐界的精英”以及其他人等“曲解了我们的法律，诋毁了北卡罗来纳州人民，仅仅是因为这里的多数人认为，男孩和女孩应该可以在没有异性在场的情况下使用学校的洗手间、更衣室和淋浴室”。
Mr. McCrory, a Republican, did not specifically refer to the N.B.A. in his statement, but he said that “American families should be on notice that the selective corporate elite are imposing their political will on communities in which they do business, thus bypassing the democratic and legal process.”
身为共和党人的麦克罗里在声明中没有特别提及NBA，但他表示，“美国家庭应该警惕，挑剔的企业精英正把自己的政治意志强加给他们的生意所在的社区，以便绕过民主和法律程序”。
Several musicians — including Bruce Springsteen, Ringo Starr and Itzhak Perlman — have canceled concerts in North Carolina to protest the law, and there have been calls for repeal by a number of businesses, some of which have canceled plans to create new jobs in the state.
为了对这项法案表示抗议，包括布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)、林戈·斯塔(Ringo Starr)和伊扎克·帕尔曼(Itzhak Perlman)在内的几位音乐家取消了在北卡罗来纳州的音乐会。另外，许多企业都呼吁废除该法案，其中一企业已经取消了在该州提供新的工作岗位的计划。
In the statement, the league said that both it and the Hornets, the N.B.A. team based in Charlotte, had been “working diligently’’ since the legislation was passed in March to foster “constructive dialogue” about the legislation and to “try to effect positive change.”
NBA在声明中表示，自从这项法案于今年3月通过以后，它和夏洛特市的NBA球队黄蜂队(Hornets)曾“坚持不懈地努力”，想要推动关于该法案的“建设性对话”，并“竭力促成积极的改变”。
But the legislation remains intact for now, and the N.B.A, acutely aware of the long lead time needed to stage an All-Star Game, opted to pull out of Charlotte.
但该法案至今依然保持原样，而NBA清醒地意识到，一场全明星赛需要有很多的前期准备时间，于是决定放弃夏洛特。
“While we recognize that the N.B.A. cannot choose the law in every city, state and country in which we do business, we do not believe we can successfully host our All-Star festivities in Charlotte in the climate created” by the current law, the statement said.
“我们承认，NBA在每一个城市、每一个州乃至每一个国家开展业务时，都无法决定那里的法律，”但鉴于当前的法律“所制造的氛围，我们认为无法在夏洛特市成功举办全明星赛，”它在声明中说。
N.B.A. players have generally been more publicly vocal about social justice issues in recent years. A number of the league’s top players have spoken out in recent weeks in reaction to shootings around the country that have left police officers dead in two cities and police officers accused of deadly recklessness in other cases.
近年来，NBA球员普遍更愿意在社会正义问题上公开发表看法。联盟的一些顶级球员近几周纷纷发声，对全国各地的枪击事件做出回应。这些事件已经在两个城市里导致警察身亡，还有一些警察被指鲁莽行事致人死亡。
In December, the N.B.A. participated in a series of television advertisements denouncing gun violence during its long Christmas Day schedule of games.
去年11月，NBA在举办多场圣诞节比赛期间，参与拍摄了一系列谴责枪支暴力的广告。
The decision by the N.B.A. is certain to inject new fervor into the debate about North Carolina’s law, which many people still refer to as House Bill 2.
NBA的决定势必会给围绕北卡罗来纳州那部法律展开的讨论注入新的活力。很多人依然称该法为“众议院2号法案”(House Bill 2)。
Before its adjournment this month, and in defiance of pleas from public officials and corporate executives in Charlotte, the General Assembly resisted demands that it back away from some of the most contentious elements of the law, which supporters have argued is about public safety, not discrimination.
本月休会前，北卡罗来纳州议会不顾夏洛特的政府官员和企业高管的请求，拒绝放弃该法最具争议性的部分内容。支持者称该法关乎公共安全，而非歧视。
The fate of the law, which the United States Department of Justice has challenged as a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, is likely to be settled in court. A federal judge in Winston-Salem, N.C., will hear arguments next month on whether to block the law while the litigation is pending.
美国司法部质疑该法违反了1964年的《民权法案》(Civil Rights Act)。它的命运可能要由法庭来决定。北卡罗来纳州温斯顿-塞勒姆的一名联邦法官将在下月听取各方观点，决定是否在诉讼未决期间阻止该法。
Republicans had signaled repeatedly that the N.B.A.’s misgivings were unlikely to persuade the law’s supporters.
共和党多次表示，NBA的顾虑不太可能说服该法的支持者。
“Our values are not shaped by the N.B.A. or Bruce Springsteen or some opinion poll,” state Representative Phil Shepard, a Republican and a Baptist minister, declared at a rally in April. “We’re standing strong.”
“我们的价值观不是NBA，不是布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀，也不是某一次民调所能决定的，”该州共和党众议员、浸礼会牧师菲尔·谢泼德(Phil Shepard)在4月的一场集会上说。“我们意志坚定。”