TEHRAN, Iran — Since the Islamic Revolution in 1979, Iranian hard-liners have been free to take to the streets and object to any form of compromise with the West, and particularly the United States.
伊朗德黑兰——1979年的伊斯兰革命以来，伊朗的强硬派一直可以自由地走上街头，抗议政府对西方任何形式的妥协，尤其是对美国的妥协。
But when a conspicuously small group of hard-liners did so on Tuesday morning in front of the Parliament building, holding up placards and shouting slogans against the nuclear framework agreed to last week in Lausanne, Switzerland, Tehran's Interior Ministry condemned the demonstration as illegal, because the protesters had failed to obtain a permit. There were also very few reporters.
不过，当人数明显偏少的一批强硬派成员周二上午在议会大厦门前抗议，手举标语牌，高喊口号反对上周在瑞士洛桑达成的核框架时，德黑兰的内政部发出了谴责，称这次示威活动是非法行为，原因是抗议者没有获得许可。此外，几乎也没有记者关注此事。
It was perhaps the first time that conservatives — in this case mostly young people genuinely disappointed over the compromises Iran has made to reach a nuclear agreement — seemed disconnected from the power structure here.
这可能是保守派——这一次几乎都是对伊朗在核协议中的妥协真正感到失望的年轻人——第一次显得与这里的权力阶层脱节了。
Analysts say the message from the top is clear: get with the program. Senior officials, important clerics, lawmakers and Republican Guard commanders, who in the past have reflexively opposed any accommodation with the West, now go out of their way to laud Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif and his team of negotiators, as well as the government of President Hassan Rouhani.
分析人士说，高层的信息很清楚：接受这个计划。高级官员、德高望重的神职人员、议员以及共和国卫队(Republican Guard)的指挥官，过去都不假思索地反对与西方达成任何和解，现在则主动赞美外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)及其谈判官员团队，还有总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)政府。
Only one man has remained silent: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, whose word is always the last. However, analysts say the broad support among conservatives is almost certainly a reflection of his thinking.
只有一个人保持了沉默：最高领导人阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)。他总是最后一个发表意见。然而分析人士说，保守派的广泛支持几乎毫无疑问反映出他的想法。
On Tuesday, Zarif earned glowing praise after he paid a visit to Parliament to describe the nuclear framework and answer lawmakers' questions.
周二，在议会描述了核框架并回答了议员的提问之后，扎里夫受到了热情洋溢的称赞。
Outside, were the 150 or so hard-line demonstrators. “The people can swear at us,” said Vahid Aziz, an engineering student who held up a placard saying “We Are Worried.” They can swear, he said, because Iran is a democracy. “We also have the right to say something.”
在议会大厦外面，有大约150名强硬派示威者。“人们可以骂我们，”工程学学生瓦希德·阿齐兹(Vahid Aziz)说。他手里的标语牌上写道，“我们很担心。”阿齐兹说，他们可以骂人，因为伊朗是一个民主国家。“我们也有权利表达看法。”
Outside of the Parliament building, a passer-by started a discussion with Aziz. “Why don't you wait with your criticism until the deal is more clear?” the man asked.
在议会大厦外，一名路人与阿齐兹讨论起来。“你们为什么不等协议更清楚些再提出批评呢？”这名男子问道。