Tragedy has twice visited the Woodiwiss family. In 2008, Anna Woodiwiss, then 27, was working for a service organization in Afghanistan. On April 1, she went horseback riding and was thrown, dying from her injuries. In 2013, her younger sister Catherine, then 26, was biking to work from her home in Washington. She was hit by a car and her face was severely smashed up. She has endured and will continue to endure a series of operations. For a time, she breathed and ate through a tube, unable to speak. The recovery is slow.
悲剧已两次降临到伍迪威斯家。2008年，时年27岁的安娜·伍迪威斯(Anna Woodiwis)为阿富汗的一家服务机构工作。4月1日的时候，她出去骑马，被甩了下去，重伤身亡。2013年，她26岁的妹妹凯瑟琳(Catherine)从华盛顿的家中骑车上班。她遭遇车祸，脸部严重损毁。她动了几次手术，未来还将继续接受更多手术。有一段时间，她通过一根插管呼吸、进食，无法开口讲话。康复过程相当缓慢。
The victims of trauma, she writes in a remarkable blog post for Sojourners, experience days “when you feel like a quivering, cowardly shell of yourself, when despair yawns as a terrible chasm, when fear paralyzes any chance for pleasure. This is just a fight that has to be won, over and over and over again.”
她为《寄居者》杂志(Sojourners)网站撰写了一篇出色的博客文章。文中写道，遭受创伤的人会有许多天“感到自己像是个颤抖的怯懦躯壳，绝望张开它的血盆大口，恐惧冻结了分毫的欢愉。这不过是场非赢不可的战斗，没完没了”。
Her mother, Mary, talks about the deep organic grief that a parent feels when they have lost one child and seen another badly injured, a pain felt in bones and fiber.
她的母亲玛丽(Mary)谈起身为家长失去了一个孩子、又眼见另一个身受重伤时的那种自然生发的深切悲痛——痛彻心扉。
But suffering is a teacher. And, among other things, the Woodiwisses drew a few lessons, which at least apply to their own experience, about how those of us outside the zone of trauma might better communicate with those inside the zone. There are no uniformly right responses, but their collective wisdom, some of it contained in Catherine’s Sojourners piece, is quite useful:
然而，苦难是一所学校。别的不谈，伍迪威斯一家得出了一些至少适用于他们自己的经验，那就是伤者之外的人们该如何与身陷其中的人更好地交流。并不存在唯一的正确反应，不过，他们一家的集体智慧相当有益，其中一些出现在了凯瑟琳为《寄居者》写的文章里：
Do be there. Some people think that those who experience trauma need space to sort things through. Assume the opposite. Most people need presence. The Woodiwisses say they were awed after each tragedy by the number of people, many of whom had been mere acquaintances, who showed up and offered love, from across the nation and the continents. They were also disoriented by a number of close friends who simply weren’t there, who were afraid or too busy.
请陪伴左右。有人认为，经历创伤的人需要空间来考虑所有的事情。刚好相反，多数人需要陪伴。伍迪威斯一家表示，两次悲剧发生后，均有很多人前来献出爱心。他们来自全国各地及各个大洲，不少都不过是泛泛之交，这让伍迪威斯一家非常惊讶。不过，有些好友出于担心或忙碌而未露面，也使他们困惑不解。
Anna and Catherine’s father, Ashley, says he could detect no pattern to help predict who would step up and provide the ministry of presence and who would fumble. Neither age, experience nor personal belief correlated with sensitivity and love.
安娜与凯瑟琳的父亲阿什利(Ashley)说，他没法找出规律来预测，谁会挺身而出提供陪伴照料，谁又会不知所措。无论是年龄、经历，还是个人信仰，都与内心的细腻与爱无关。
Don’t compare, ever. Don’t say, “I understand what it’s like to lose a child. My dog died, and that was hard, too.” Even if the comparison seems more germane, don’t make it. Each trauma should be respected in its uniqueness. Each story should be heard attentively as its own thing. “From the inside,” Catherine writes, comparisons “sting as clueless, careless, or just plain false.”
永远不要比较。不要说，“我理解失去孩子是什么滋味。我的狗死了，也是很难受。”就算看似更恰当的类比，也不要说出口。每次创伤的独特性都应获得尊重。每个故事都应被单独倾听。凯瑟琳写道，“对身处其中的人来说”，类比“无知、冷漠、或是完全错误，犹如针刺”。
Do bring soup. The non-verbal expressions of love are as healing as eloquence. When Mary was living with Catherine during her recovery, some young friend noticed she didn’t have a bathmat. He went to Target and got a bathmat. Mary says she will never forget that.
请携带礼物。表达爱心的行动与语言一样有力。凯瑟琳复原过程中，玛丽陪她一起住。有个青年友人发现，她没有浴室脚垫，于是去塔吉特百货(Target)买了一张。玛丽说，自己永远都不会忘记这件事。
Do not say “you’ll get over it.” “There is no such thing as ‘getting over it,’ ” Catherine writes, “A major disruption leaves a new normal in its wake. There is no ‘back to the old me.’ ”
不要说“事情会过去的”。凯瑟琳写道，“‘事情会过去’的说法是不成立的，大的伤痛会在发生之后形成新的常态。不会‘变回过去的我’。”
Do be a builder. The Woodiwisses distinguish between firefighters and builders. Firefighters drop everything and arrive at the moment of crisis. Builders are there for years and years, walking alongside as the victims live out in the world. Very few people are capable of performing both roles.
请帮忙重建。伍迪威斯对救火队员和重建者加以了区分。危机发生的那一刻，救火队员会放下一切冲到现场。重建者则年复一年地守候，陪伴伤者在世上过活。很少有人能同时承担两种角色。
Don’t say it’s all for the best or try to make sense out of what has happened. Catherine and her parents speak with astonishing gentleness and quiet thoughtfulness, but it’s pretty obvious that these tragedies have stripped away their tolerance for pretense and unrooted optimism.
不要说什么这也许不那么糟，或者试图理解发生的一切。凯瑟琳及父母说话的时候，语气异常温和，也经过冷静思考，不过很明显的是，这些悲剧使他们不能容忍装腔作势和盲目乐观。
Ashley also warned against those who would overinterpret, and try to make sense of the inexplicable. Even devout Christians, as the Woodiwisses are, should worry about taking theology beyond its limits. Theology is a grounding in ultimate hope, not a formula book to explain away each individual event.
阿什利还忠告人们，不要过度诠释，或是试图从莫名的事情中寻找解释。就连像伍迪威斯家这样虔诚的基督徒，也该注意不要过度依靠神学。神学是终极盼望的基础，不是为每起事件做出解释的实用指南。
I’d say that what these experiences call for is a sort of passive activism. We have a tendency, especially in an achievement-oriented culture, to want to solve problems and repair brokenness — to propose, plan, fix, interpret, explain and solve. But what seems to be needed here is the art of presence — to perform tasks without trying to control or alter the elemental situation. Allow nature to take its course. Grant the sufferers the dignity of their own process. Let them define meaning. Sit simply through moments of pain and uncomfortable darkness. Be practical, mundane, simple and direct.
我得说，他们的经历显示，我们需要的是某种消极的积极主义。我们都有一种倾向，尤其是在崇尚成功的文化中，期望解决问题并修复破损——去提议、策划、修复、诠释、说明并解决。然而，此时需要的似乎是陪伴的艺术，在不试图控制或改变基本情境的前提下行事。顺其自然。赋予伤者自我历程的尊严。让他们来决定其中的意义。就这样度过痛苦与令人不安的黑暗。做到实际、平淡、简单而直接。
Ashley and Mary went to Afghanistan a few months after Anna’s death. They remember that as a time out of time. They wept together with Afghan villagers and felt touched by grace. “That period changed me and opened my imagination,” Ashley recalls. “This thing called presence and love is more available than I had thought. It is more ready to be let loose than I ever imagined.”
安娜去世后几个月，阿什利与玛丽前往阿富汗。在他们的回忆中，那是一段时间的暂停。他们与阿富汗村民共同哭泣，感受到了天恩眷顾。“那段时间改变了我，开拓了我的想象力，”阿什利回忆道。“陪伴与爱这种东西，比我想象中更为易得，比我一直想象的要更易表达。”