MIAMI — For the past five years, Jeremy Lin has felt multiple, disparate identities foisted upon him: undrafted underdog, franchise savior, overpaid mercenary. None quite fit.
迈阿密——过去5年间，林书豪感觉自己被强行贴上了多个不同的标签：落选的不被看好者，球队救世主，身价虚高的雇佣兵。但它们都不怎么恰当。
But over these past six months, a calibration seems to have occurred. One half-step away from the spotlight, Lin has nurtured an existence that now comfortably rests somewhere between the short-burst ecstasy of his time with the New York Knicks and the protracted bewilderment of his stints with the Houston Rockets and the Los Angeles Lakers:
但过去6个月里，情况似乎有所修正。游离在聚光灯半步之外的林书豪，已经从他为纽约尼克斯队(New York Knicks)效力时的短暂狂喜，和他为休斯顿火箭队(Houston Rockets)以及洛杉矶湖人队(Los Angeles Lakers)效力时的长期迷惘之间，找到了一种折衷的存在状态：
Meet Jeremy Lin, solid basketball player.
来认识一下相当可靠的篮球运动员林书豪。
As a reserve this season for the Charlotte Hornets, Lin contributed steadily to a group that enjoyed an exciting run to the playoffs. He reasserted himself as deft scorer, capable of catching fire in the right conditions. Finishing seventh in the NBA's Sixth Man of the Year voting, he reset his value as an attractive target for teams this summer, should he, as expected, decide to become a free agent.
本赛季，林书豪作为夏洛特黄蜂队(Charlotte Hornets)的替补，为尽情享受进军季后赛的兴奋旅程的球队，做出了稳定的贡献。他再度证明自己是一个灵巧的射手，能够在合适的条件下爆发。他在今年的NBA年度最佳第六人评选中排名第七，让自己的价值得到了修复。如果像外界所预期的那样决定做自由球员，他必将在今年夏天被各大球队视为极具吸引力的目标。
In an interview this week, Lin said that he felt liberated by a firmer sense of who he is.
本周接受采访时，林书豪说他更加确定自己是谁，这让他感到自在。
“I think I'm just in a different place, mentally, spiritually, where I'm able to enjoy this job more and more,” Lin said. “The lows don't affect me the way they used to anymore.”
“我觉得我在心理上和精神上处于不同的境界，从而可以越来越享受这份工作，”林书豪说。“低谷期再也不能像从前那样影响我。”
At the risk of speaking too soon, it seems that Lin has broken out of the grating cycle of hype and backlash that shadowed him after a sudden emergence with the Knicks in 2011-12 catapulted him to the national stage.
在2011-12赛季，身在尼克斯队的林书豪异军突起，获得了举国关注，自从那时起，他一直处于炒作和遭到抗拒这一痛苦循环的阴影之下。这话或许言之过早，但他看上去已经打破了上述循环。
With the Lakers last season, he seemed miscast inside the team's ponderous offensive system.
上赛季为洛杉矶湖人队效力时，他似乎在该队沉闷的进攻体系中扮演了一个并不恰当的角色。
Lin was a free agent after the Lakers' 21-win season, and suitors were not quite knocking down his door. But the Hornets envisioned a role for him, and coach Steve Clifford pitched him a system that would emphasize fast play and pick-and-rolls — the lively conditions in which Lin thrives. The Hornets had missed the playoffs in 2015, and they had ambitions to re-establish themselves as postseason contenders. It was an intriguing opportunity.
在湖人队打完了那个21胜赛季之后，林书豪成了自由球员，而对他感兴趣的球队并不多。但黄蜂队预见到了他的作用，教练史蒂夫·克利福德(Steve Clifford)向他阐释了一个注重快攻和挡拆战术的体系——在这种充满活力的环境中，林书豪才会如鱼得水。黄蜂队在2015年错失了季后赛，但他们雄心勃勃，想要重新成为季后赛资格的有力竞争者。这是一个诱人的机会。
“Going through what he went through last year, and then coming here and having a chance to do something special, he was down for it,” Charlotte center Al Jefferson said. “In this league, you want a winning situation, and normally everything else will take care of itself.”
“经历了去年经历的那些事情，然后来到这儿，有机会做点儿特别的事情，他对此充满期待，”夏洛特黄蜂队中锋艾尔·杰佛森(Al Jefferson)说。“在这只队伍里，你只要有获胜的欲望，其他的一切通常都不是问题。”
Lin signed a modest contract: two years for $4.37 million, with a player option on the second year. It has been a mutually beneficial agreement.
林书豪签订了条件适中的合约：两年437万美元，第二年拥有球员优先选择权。这是一份双赢的协议。
At Jefferson's request, Lin helped to revive and organize the Hornets' road trip Bible study group, which went dormant last season. Jefferson said the entire team attended the final session of the regular season.
应杰佛森的要求，林书豪帮助复兴了在上赛季进入休眠状态的黄蜂队客场旅程《圣经》学习小组，并参与了相关组织工作。
On the court, Lin averaged 16.1 points per 36 minutes during the regular season, his highest single-season average since his days in New York. In five games he notched 25 points or more, including a 35-point performance against the Toronto Raptors in January and a 29-point game in a surprise win over the San Antonio Spurs in March.
在常规赛季的赛场上，林书豪平均上场36分钟，贡献16.1分，这是离开纽约后他的单个赛季最高平均分。有5场比赛，他的得分达到了25分或以上，其中，在1月份对阵多伦多猛龙队时(Toronto Raptors)他得了35分，在3月份对阵圣安东尼奥马刺队(San Antonio Spurs)时得了29分——黄蜂队在那场比赛中出人意料地取得了胜利。
As the season wound down, Clifford praised Lin for a “terrific year.” He said there were facets of his game that seemed to go underappreciated.
赛季接近尾声的时候，克利福德对林书豪称赞有加，说他度过了“了不起的一年”。克利福德说，他在比赛中的一些方面似乎未能得到应有的认可。
“He's a much, much better defender than people realize,” Clifford said. “He competes hard every night, and he's a very serious player.”
“他是一个很好的防守者，比大家所认为的好得多，”克利福德说。“每个晚上他都卖力比赛，他是一个非常认真的球员。”
Lin kept a low profile all season. His name re-entered the national conversation this month, though, when a fan named Hsiu-Chen Kuei from San Jose, California, uploaded a homemade video to YouTube that showed multiple instances in which Lin drew hard contact from opponents. Kuei questioned why flagrant fouls had not been called. The video went viral.
林书豪在整个赛季中都很低调。不过，这个月他的名字又重新出现在全国性话题之中，因为一个来自加利福尼亚州圣何塞市、名叫桂秀珍（Hsiu-Chen Kuei，音）的球迷在Youtube上发布了一个自制的视频，里边举出了很多林书豪被对手严重冲撞的例子。桂秀珍质疑对方为什么没有被判恶意犯规。该视频在网上广为流传。
An article in The New York Times about Kuei and the video prompted the NBA to issue a statement noting essentially that Lin's common and flagrant foul numbers were in line with league norms.
《纽约时报》发表了一篇与桂秀珍及其制作的视频有关的文章，促使NBA发了一份声明。声明大意是，林书豪所遭遇的普通犯规和恶意犯规数量，与联盟中的平均数值相符。
Lin shrugged this week when asked what he thought about the NBA's response. He seemed to find it a bit perplexing.
当在本周被问及对NBA的回应作何感想时，林书豪耸了耸肩。他似乎觉得它有点令人困惑。
“That doesn't address the issue,” Lin said. “To me, not everybody drives the same way, not everybody goes to the basket the same way, not everybody takes contact the same way. I mean, it is what it is. They made their statement. All I know is, you've just got to watch the film.”
“这并未对相关问题给出答案，”林书豪说。“在我看来，并非每个人都以同样的方式突破，并非每个人都以同样的方式打到篮下，并非每个人都以同样的方式遭到冲撞。我说，情况就是这样的。他们发了声明。而我只想说，你去看看那个片子就明白了。”
But Lin did not want to criticize the officiating. He said it was out of his control and he had other matters to worry about. The Hornets fell behind in their series against the Miami Heat, two games to none, with a loss on Wednesday night. He scored 9 points in Game 1 and 11 points in Game 2, and is among the many Hornets players who will need to improve in Game 3 and Saturday to make the series competitive.
但林书豪并不想批评裁判的执法。他说这不是他所能控制的，他还有其他事情要担心。黄蜂队周三晚上再度不敌迈阿密热火队(Miami Heat)，在系列赛中连败两场。第一场比赛他得了9分，第二场得了11分，他和许多队友都需要在周六晚上的第三场比赛中拿出更好的表现，让这个系列赛变得更具悬念。
Lin demurred, too, when asked about the coming summer, whether he might opt out and what he might seek. He noted it would be disrespectful to the Hornets organization and his teammates to discuss personal business during this postseason run.
当被问及今年夏天是否会动用选择退出权以及有何目标时，林书豪不愿作答。他指出，在季后赛的进程中讨论个人事务，是对俱乐部及其队友的不尊重。
Several teams could use his services. The Brooklyn Nets' hiring of the Atlanta Hawks assistant coach Kenny Atkinson to coach their team next season led some media outlets to speculate on whether Brooklyn could be an attractive destination for Lin. Atkinson was an assistant with the Knicks during the Linsanity days.
他可能加盟的球队有好几家。亚特兰大老鹰队(Atlanta Hawks)的助理教练肯尼·阿特金森(Kenny Atkinson)受聘于下赛季执教布鲁克林篮网队(Brooklyn Nets)，这让一些媒体纷纷猜测，布鲁克林篮网队对林书豪来说会不会是一个有吸引力的落脚地。想当年林书豪热潮正盛的时候，阿特金森是尼克斯队的助理教练。
Since last summer, the focus has been on altering his jump shot — still a weak point in Lin's game — with help from a shooting coach. Clifford predicted Lin's 3-point-shooting average would rise starting next season.
自从去年夏天以来，他的训练重点一直是在一位投篮教练的帮助下改进跳投——比赛中这仍是他的弱项。克利福德预计，下个赛季，林书豪的三分球命中率会上升。
“I think he's got another big jump in his game,” Clifford said.
“我认为他在比赛技巧方面会再次大大进步，”克利福德说。
And then, maybe, another label in a short career full of them.
然后，在短暂的职业生涯中被贴上各种标签的林书豪，也许会迎来另一个标签。