Only the bas-relief bull and serpent-dragon gods were present to see the two flak-jacketed German surveyors and their security guards painstakingly moving laser equipment through Iraq’s most famous archaeological site, the ruins of ancient Babylon.
当两位穿着防弹背心的德国测量员及警卫在伊拉克最著名的考古遗址——古巴比伦遗迹，费力地挪动激光设备时，只有浅浮雕公牛和蟒龙神在现场。
Nervous about working in a country that had been tearing itself apart for years, Dirk Häusleigner and Erwin Christofori concentrated on the four-day task in hand — laser-scanning the towering 2,600-year-old walls of Ishtar Gate and the nearby Nabu-sha-Khare Temple which was partly, and damagingly, reconstructed during Saddam Hussein’s era.
在这个多年来被自己搞得四分五裂的国家工作，德克·豪斯莱纳(Dirk Häusleigner)和埃尔温·克里斯托福里(Erwin Christofori)感到紧张。他们全神贯注于手上四天的任务——激光扫描有2600年历史的高耸的伊什塔尔门(Ishtar Gate)高墙以及附近的那卜-莎-卡雷神庙(Nabu-sha-Khare Temple)。这座神庙在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)统治期间遭到破坏性的部分重建。
“We were a little bit nervous, yes,” Mr. Häusleigner said in a recent interview about his trip to what was once the neo-Babylonian capital of Nebuchadnezzar II, the biblical king, now a pile of partly excavated remnants 50 miles south of Baghdad. “But you feel honored to see this place and to preserve it, because it is world heritage.”
前不久，豪斯莱纳在接受采访时说，“我们真的有点紧张，但我们很荣幸能亲眼看到这个地方并把它保存起来，因为它是世界遗产。”那里曾是《圣经》中的国王尼布甲尼撒二世(Nebuchadnezzar II)的新巴比伦首都，现在是位于巴格达以南50英里的一堆被部分挖掘的废墟。
The trip was in 2010, before the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, achieved worldwide notoriety with its relentless campaign to destroy, and loot, ancient sites across Iraq and Syria.
他们是在2010年进行这项工作的，那时ISIS尚未开始在伊拉克和叙利亚无情地摧毁和掠夺古代遗迹，遭到举世唾弃。
Babylon survived because it lies farther south and east than its less fortunate ancient neighbors of Nimrud, Hatra and Palmyra, which are within the jihadists’ self-proclaimed Islamic caliphate.
巴比伦遗迹得以保存，是因为它更靠东南，不像它那些不幸的古代邻居尼姆鲁德(Nimrud)、哈牡拉(Hatra)和巴尔米拉(Palmyra)，它不在圣战者自称的伊斯兰教国的领域内。
But what seemed back then to be a straightforward job of conservation planning — albeit with an unusual degree of three-dimensional precision — today appears to have been a prescient use of digital technology in a conflict zone that others are now scrambling to adopt.
当时他们的扫描工作只是单纯的保护计划的一部分——虽然具有不同寻常的三维精确度——但是如今看来却很有先见之明，现在很多机构也竞相在冲突地带运用数字技术。
Faced with the apparent impotence of governments and international agencies to stop ISIS’ fanatical levelers, other cultural organizations are trying to create 3-D records of heritage sites to preserve them, at least in digital form, for future generations.
多国政府和国际机构在阻止ISIS狂热的平等主义分子方面显然无能为力，所以很多其他文化组织努力为后代留存3D版遗址记录，至少是数字形式的。
“We were ahead of the curve on this,” said Jeff Allen, a program director with the World Monuments Fund, the New York-based nonprofit charity that commissioned the laser scan and that works at Babylon with the Iraq State Board of Antiquities and Heritage.
纽约的非赢利慈善组织世界历史遗迹保护基金会(World Monuments Fund)项目主管杰夫·艾伦(Jeff Allen)说：“在这方面，我们领先一步。”上面提到的激光扫描就是该组织委托进行的。它还在巴比伦与伊拉克全国古迹遗产委员会(Iraq State Board of Antiquities and Heritage)合作。
“We scanned the gate thinking, ‘You never know, there might be a problem in the future,’ and, lo and behold, there is a problem throughout Iraq. For sites such as Nimrud and Hatra, the documentation wasn’t as detailed, and it is very difficult to reconstruct sites when you don’t have a good base of information.”
“扫描大门时，我们心想，‘你永远也不知道将来可能会出什么问题’，哎，还真是，整个伊拉克都出问题了。尼姆鲁德和哈牡拉等遗址的历史记录不够详细。没有详实的基础信息，很难重建。”
The damage inflicted on antiquities in Iraq and Syria pales beside the hundreds of thousands of people killed and millions uprooted in countries whose structures — human, political and cultural — may never return to what they were. But attacks on people and their cultural heritage are inextricably linked, those charged with protecting it argue.
在伊拉克和叙利亚，数十万人遭到屠杀，数百万人无家可归，他们的人文、政治和文化结构可能再也无法恢复。相比之下，古迹的破坏显得不那么重要。但是古迹保护者称，对人的伤害与对他们文化遗产的破坏是密不可分的。
“Cultural cleansing is a war crime that it is now used as a tactic of war,” said Irina Bokova, director general of Unesco, the United Nations cultural agency, in a speech in November. “This is not a choice between protecting people or protecting culture. It is part of the same responsibility because culture is about belonging, identity, values, common history and the kind of world that we want to live in.”
11月份，联合国教科文组织(Unesco)总干事伊里娜·博科娃(Irina Bokova)在演讲中说：“文化清洗是战争罪，而今被用作一种战略手段。我们不能在保护人和保护文化之间进行选择。我们肩负的责任是一样的，因为文化关乎归属感、身份认同、价值观和共同的历史，是我们想要生活的世界。”
Cultural organizations are working with Iraqi and Syrian experts, drawing on local knowledge and providing equipment and training, to create digital records of endangered ancient sites.
很多文化组织与伊拉克和叙利亚的专家们合作，利用当地人的智慧，提供设备和培训，为濒危古迹留存数字记录。
Among the pioneers is a nonprofit organization called CyArk, based in Oakland, Calif., which is dedicated to the 3-D digital preservation of cultural heritage. It has sent teams to scan a dozen high-risk but still-accessible sites in Syria and Iraq, and plans to extend the project to 200 other locations in neighboring countries.
其中的一个先驱是加利福尼亚州奥克兰市的非赢利组织CyArk，它专门对文化遗迹进行3D数字保存。它已派出多个小组扫描叙利亚和伊拉克的十几个仍可到达的高危遗址，计划把这个项目扩展到周边国家的其他200个地点。
CyArk’s founder, Ben Kacyra, 75, is an Iraqi-American engineer who was born in Mosul, the northern Iraqi city that is now under ISIS control. He remembers his father taking him to ancient Assyrian sites such as Nineveh, Nimrud and Khorsabad. His passion for preservation is driven by his memories of a Mosul in which different communities lived peacefully together surrounded by reminders of the ancient Mesopotamian civilizations that helped shape the modern world.
75岁的CyArk创始人本·卡西拉(Ben Kacyra)是伊拉克裔美国工程师。他出生于伊拉克北部城市摩苏尔(Mosul)，目前这座城市在ISIS控制之下。他记得父亲带他去过尼尼微(Nineveh)、尼姆鲁德和豪尔萨巴德(Khorsabad)等古亚述人遗址。他对保存遗址热情来源于对摩苏尔的记忆，在那里，不同的族群和平地生活在一起，周围都是古代美索不达米亚文明的遗迹，那些文明帮助塑造了现代社会。
“Our human nature impels us to ask, ‘Where did we come from?’” he said. “By destroying these heritage sites, we are not just losing the sites, we are losing the stories they tell us. People like ISIS want to obliterate these stories because they want to obliterate all memories in order to bring to the forefront their own story, and their kind of logic. I abhor it.”
他说：“我们的人文本性驱使我们思考：‘我们从哪里来？’这些文化遗址被摧毁之后，我们失去的不只是遗址，还失去了它们讲述的故事。ISIS想抹掉这些故事，因为他们想抹掉我们所有的记忆，把他们自己的故事和思维方式放到重要位置。这令我十分憎恶。”
Another organization, the Institute for Digital Archaeology, is putting together an open-source Million Image Database. Its aim is to use images taken before the destruction of sites such as Palmyra to record, and even rebuild, some monuments.
还有数字考古学会(Institute for Digital Archaeology)，它创建了一个开放性的百万图像数据库(Million Image Database)，目的是利用在帕尔迈拉等遗址被毁之前拍摄的图像去记录甚至重建一些遗迹。
Its director of technology, Alexy Karenowska, a physicist at Oxford University, said that the institute was supplying volunteers with 5,000 lightweight 3-D cameras — they are less precise but more discreet and easier to maintain than laser scanners — to document at-risk cultural sites throughout the Middle East and North Africa. In April, at Trafalgar Square in London, it will install a temporary full-scale replica of the Arch of the Temple of Baal in Palmyra based on its 3-D digital model. The arch’s current status is uncertain, although much of the temple appears to have been destroyed.
该学会的技术总监亚历克西·卡里诺斯卡(Alexy Karenowska)是牛津大学(Oxford University)的物理学家。他说，该机构给志愿者们提供了5000台轻型3D相机——它们没有激光扫描仪精确，但是更隐蔽、更容易保养——记录中东和北非的濒危文化遗址。明年4月，它将根据自己的3D数字模型在伦敦特拉法尔加广场(Trafalgar Square)安装一个临时性的原始尺寸的巴尔米拉贝尔庙(Temple of Baal)拱门复制品。我们不太清楚拱门目前的情况，但是神庙大部分似乎已经被毁。
“Of course, a reproduction is only a reproduction, not the original object,” Dr. Karenowska said. “It can only ever be second best, but if we are in a situation where it is all that we have, I do think we should embrace the possibility of having that.”
卡里诺斯卡博士说：“当然，它只是复制品，不是原物。它再怎么好也只是次佳，但是如果我们得不到原物，那么我真的认为应该为能拥有复制品而感到高兴。”
Plenty of nondigital work is necessary too, of course. The site of Babylon needs laborious and costly conservation work — which will be helped by a $530,000 United States Embassy grant announced last week — if its vulnerable monuments are to be preserved in the real world, not just virtually.
当然，我们也有必要进行非数字性的保护工作。如果巴比伦脆弱的遗迹要在现实世界中得以保存，而不只是在虚拟世界里，那么它需要艰苦而昂贵的保护工作。上周，美国大使馆宣布拨款53万美元，也许会有所帮助。
However, tens of thousands of Babylonian artifacts already lie far from ISIS’ reach in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, because they were excavated by German archaeologists in the early 1900s.
不过，成千上万的巴比伦工艺品已经保存在柏林的帕加马博物馆(Pergamon Museum)，远离ISIS的魔掌，因为它们是20世纪初德国考古学家挖掘出来的。
Markus Hilgert, director of the Museum of the Ancient Near East at the Pergamon, said that it would be possible one day to 3-D scan the material in Berlin, combine it with the digital model already done in Babylon and create a physical walk-through exhibition combining every stage of the ancient city.
帕加马的古代近东博物馆(Museum of the Ancient Near East)馆长马库斯·希尔格特(Markus Hilgert)说，将来有一天我们也许可以3D扫描柏林收藏的工艺品，把它们和已经制作出来的巴比伦数字模型结合起来，创造一个实体的可穿行的展览，展现这座古城的各个时期。
“The idea is to have a virtual reunification of the archaeological objects extant in Babylon and Berlin,” Dr. Hilgert said. “This is what is so important about the time we are experiencing. We have to learn again that cultural objects, elements of culture, have very much to do with who we are, what we identify with, how we orient ourselves in this world.”
希尔格特博士说：“我们的构想是把巴比伦和柏林现存的考古物品在虚拟世界里结合起来。对我们正经历的时代来说，这非常重要。我们必须再次认识到，文化物品和文化元素与我们是谁、我们认同的价值观以及我们在这个世界上的位置有很大关系。”