YANGON, Myanmar — The once-grand colonial building of marble floors and iron fretwork, an elegant outpost of Britain’s trading empire, is now a wreck. Moss encrusts the walls, rainwater drips down rusted steel beams, flimsy lights glow yellow in dark interiors. A century-old birdcage elevator lies idle, stuck on the first floor. It hasn’t moved in more than 60 years.
缅甸仰光——这栋建于殖民地时期的建筑曾经辉煌一时，装饰着大理石地板和铁质浮雕细工，一度是英国的那个贸易帝国的典雅前哨。但如今，这里严重受损。墙壁上长满了苔藓；雨水顺着生锈的钢梁往下滴；昏暗的房间里，不甚稳固的灯发出黄色的光。一架有一百年历史的鸟笼式电梯因为被卡在了一楼，而被闲置了六十多年。
The occupants are no longer the merchants who sold teak, oil and rice around the world, but lowly lawyers and petty traders who pay minimal rent — $20 a month for an office cubicle with no air-conditioning in sweltering heat — and a few families who live for free in dank rooms.
这里的住户也不再是面向全球销售柚木、石油和大米的商人，而是地位低下的律师和小商人。他们一小间办公室的最低月租为20美元（约合124元人民币）。尽管天气闷热，但这些办公室里没有空调。此外，还有少数几户家庭免费住在楼里潮湿的房间里。
Named the Balthazar Building after the well-to-do Armenian merchants who financed its construction at the turn of the 20th century, the edifice is one of hundreds that made this city, formerly Rangoon, a place of British ostentation in the tropics.
20世纪初，一些富裕的美国商人为这栋大楼的修建提供了资金。于是，它被以他们的名字命名为巴尔萨泽大楼(Balthazar Building)。数百栋高楼大厦让曾经名为Rangoon的这座城市，成了热带地区能炫耀英国辉煌过往的地方之一。这栋大楼便是其中之一。
Now the race is on to salvage banks flanked by Corinthian pillars, courthouses adorned with limestone lions, and shipping headquarters decorated with dark wood and brass fixtures before they collapse of decay.
如今，为了防止侧面立柱采用了科林斯柱式的银行、立有石灰石雕刻而成的狮子的法院以及装饰着暗色的木质和黄铜制固定装置的海运总部腐朽倒塌，一场抢救行动正在紧张进行。
The conservation of the buildings, laid out on a grid of broad avenues designed by British engineers, would make the city a star attraction of Southeast Asia, says Thant Myint-U, the head of the Yangon Heritage Trust.
仰光遗产信托基金(Yangon Heritage Trust)的负责人丹敏-吴(Thant Myint-U)表示，对这些建筑的保护是按照英国工程师设计的一份布局图进行的，涉及区域广泛，并称保护工作将让这座城市成为东南亚的明星级景点。
“The future is all about cities,” said Mr. Thant Myint-U, who is trying to convince the government that the old has value and must be preserved. “Having a beautiful downtown will bring investment and give us an advantage over cities like Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.”
“未来都和城市有关，”丹敏-吴说。“美丽的中心城区会带来投资，让我们比金奈和吉隆坡等其他城市更有优势。”他正在努力让政府相信，老旧建筑颇有价值，必须得到保存。
During the colonial period, Rangoon served as the capital of Burma. (The place names used by the British were retained until 1989 when the ruling junta changed the city to Yangon and the country to Myanmar.) The city had its own particular ethos. Students who had studied at Oxford and Cambridge made it the crucible of Burmese nationalism, reading Karl Marx and listening to jazz.
在殖民时代，仰光是缅甸的首都。（那时，英国人用“Rangoon”和“Burma”指仰光和缅甸，直到1989年，缅甸军政府改用“Yangon”和“Myanmar”。）这个城市当时有着自己独特的气质。从牛津大学(Oxford)和剑桥大学(Cambridge)走出来的学生们读卡尔·马克思(Karl Marx)，听爵士乐，把仰光变成了缅甸民族特征的熔炉。
The port was one of the busiest in the region, the gateway for hundreds of thousands of Indians, who in the 1920s and ’30s were the largest ethnic group in the city. Gandhi visited. The British actor John Gielgud came in 1945 to perform Hamlet at the Empire Theater to audiences reclaiming the city after a brutal Japanese occupation during World War II.
这是该地区最繁忙的港口之一，数十万印度人从这里涌入缅甸，在二三十年代成为这个城市最大的族群。甘地曾到访这里。1945年在帝国剧场(Empire Theater)，英国演员约翰·吉尔古德(John Gielgud)为在二战期间日本的野蛮占领之后夺取了这座城市的人们表演了《汉姆雷特》(Hamlet)。
In his 1934 novel, “Burmese Days,” George Orwell had his leading female character, the young husband-hunting Elizabeth Lackersteen, arrive by ship at the Rangoon docks, though Orwell refrained from describing the city, reserving his acidity about British rule for smaller towns in Burma.
在1934年出版的小说《缅甸岁月》(Burmese Days)中，乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)笔下的年轻女主角、一心想寻找一个丈夫的伊丽莎白·拉克斯廷(Elizabeth Lackersteen)乘船抵达仰光的码头，不过，奥威尔没有描述这座城市，而是用最尖刻的讽刺叙述了英国对缅甸小城市的统治。
Not everyone admired the colonial cityscape as much as those who want to preserve it today. “It was built by a people who refused compromise with the East, and has wide, straight, shadeless streets, with much solid bank-architecture of vaguely Grecian inspiration,” Norman Lewis, the British travel writer, said in his 1952 account of Burma, “Golden Earth.” “There is much facade and presence, little pretense at comfort and no surrender to the climate.”
并非人人都那么推崇殖民时期的城市风光，虽然现在有人想要留住它。“它是由一个拒绝与东方妥协的民族建起来的，有宽广、笔直和无遮蔽的马路，十分坚固的银行建筑隐约带有希腊的风格，”英国旅行作家诺曼·刘易斯(Norman Lewis)在1952年有关缅甸的著作《金色大地》(Golden Earth)中说，“建筑的外观和全貌呈现在眼前，朴实自若，绝无对气候的妥协。”
The Burmese economy was nationalized soon after World War II, and under the military government that took power in 1962 the buildings of the empire were allowed to rot. Economic sanctions by the West crippled the flow of supplies — oil, glass, fixtures — needed for maintenance.
在二战之后，缅甸经济迅速国有化，在1962年夺取政权的军政府的统治下，帝国时期的建筑渐渐变得破败。西方的经济制裁阻碍了房屋养护所需的物资的供应，比如石油、玻璃和灯具。
In 2005, the government moved to a new capital, Naypyidaw, leaving empty many buildings that had at least been occupied, if not maintained.
2005年，缅甸政府部门迁往新首都内比都，留下了许多空空如也的建筑，它们此前即便没有得到维护，至少还处于被使用的状态。
Among the abandoned structures, the Secretariat, a vast Victorian-era complex arranged around lush gardens that had served as the heart of the government, fell on hard times. The red domed buildings now need an estimated $100 million in repairs.
秘书处大楼(Secretariat)也在被废弃的建筑之列，它是维多利亚时代的一处宏大的建筑群，环绕郁郁葱葱的花园而建，曾是政府的心脏地带，后来却逐渐破败。据估计，修缮这片红色的圆顶建筑群需要1亿美元资金。
In November, Mr. Thant Myint-U showed President Obama, who visited Myanmar for an Asian summit, around the Secretariat. “We discussed the need for an overall vision and plan for the city,” he said of the president’s tour.
11月，丹敏-吴陪同来缅甸参加一个亚洲峰会的奥马巴总统(President Obama)参观了秘书处大楼。“我们讨论了就这座城市的发展提出总体构想、设计总体方案的必要性。”丹敏-吴在谈及奥巴马的这次参观时表示。
The Yangon Heritage Trust has won some victories. The group objected to plans for a major new building of more than 20 stories in the historic downtown area. The government ruled in favor of the trust, and now there is an informal agreement that new structures downtown will not rise higher than six stories.
仰光遗产基金已经取得了一些成绩。该团体曾反对在历史悠久的市中心地带新建一栋超过20层的大型建筑。政府部门的裁决支持了它的主张。目前，各方已经达成了一个非正式的协议，市中心的新建筑不能高于六层。
But government works in strange ways in Myanmar: Many decisions are made on an ad hoc basis, and developers are looking for cheap insider deals as the economy goes through a rough transition. There is no legal framework for protection of the buildings, and no discussion of how to protect the people who have been living in hallways, towers and hidden back rooms.
但在缅甸，政府部门的运行方式有些奇怪：很多决定的出炉过程都很随意；在经济艰难转型之际，开发商们都在寻找从事划算的内幕交易的机会。这里没有保护这些建筑的法律框架，也没人讨论如何保护一直住在走廊里、塔上以及隐蔽隔间里的人。
The trust hopes to change that with a master plan that would sort out legal ownership, designate renovation projects and deal with traffic and sanitation by the end of 2015, said Mr. Thant Myint-U, the grandson of the former United Nations secretary general, U Thant, and a historian who has written books on Myanmar.
丹敏-吴说，仰光遗产基金希望借助一项总体规划，在2015年年底前改变上述状况，该规划将厘清法定所有权，选定需要翻修的建筑，还会涉及交通和卫生问题的处理。丹敏-吴是联合国前秘书长吴丹(U Thant)的孙子，同时也是一位历史学家，写过一些关于缅甸的书。
At the heart of the plan will be the idea that downtown Yangon should retain its vibrancy rather than become another sanitized zone that appeals to well-to-do tourists impressed by expensive hotels and tony cafes, Mr. Thant Myint-U said. To preserve a sense of authenticity, he said, there will be efforts to keep residents in some of the buildings, perhaps with subsidized rents, and to limit the number of big, impersonal international hotels that attract foreign visitors but are off-limits to most locals.
丹敏-吴说，这项规划将以这样一个理念为核心：仰光市中心应该保持自己的勃勃生机，而不是变成又一个溜光水滑，靠昂贵的酒店和时髦的咖啡馆来吸引有钱游客的地方。他说，为了保留一份真实感，相关方面会想办法让居民住在某些建筑里，或许可以给予租金优惠；还会限制没有市井气息的国际化酒店的数量，这些酒店有助于吸引外国游客，但会让大部分本地人望而却步。
The distinctive charm of the teetering colonial-era buildings lies in the street life around them: the bookstalls along Pansodan Street with paperbacks laid out on the sidewalk and vendors overseeing their wares from little plastic stools; the makeshift food booths selling small snakes in screw-top jars, watermelons the size of several footballs, bright orange papayas and emerald green limes.
这些殖民时代的老旧建筑有与众不同的魅力，这种魅力存在于它们周遭的市井生活之中：班索丹大街(Pansodan Street)两侧书摊林立，一摞摞的平装书就搁在人行道上，书摊老板则坐在小塑料凳上看摊儿；这里还有很多临时的食品摊儿，卖的东西包括装在螺口罐里的小蛇、好几个足球那么大的西瓜、鲜橙色的木瓜以及翠绿色的青柠。
In the Balthazar Building, the decrepit lobby serves as the kitchen for Daw Than Hla, a 63-year-old widow.
在巴尔萨泽大楼里，63岁的寡妇丹拉(Than Hla)把破旧的门厅当成了厨房。
In the early evening, as the office workers head home, she lights a brazier in an alcove beside the elevator and tosses sliced onions in oil, the aromas adding a decidedly domestic touch to the crumbling marble and iron décor as she prepares dinner.
傍晚，办公室职员们下班回家时，她点着了电梯盘边一个壁凹里的火盆，开始用油炒洋葱片。她准备晚餐的时候，阵阵香气给摇摇欲坠的大理石和铁制装饰增添了一种浓浓的家常气息。
“I’ve lived here for 40 years,” she said, pointing to small rooms where her daughter, son and grandchild sleep. “My husband worked in the fisheries department and when he died they allowed me to stay.”
“我已经在这里住了40年，”她指着她的女儿、儿子和孙子睡觉用的小房间说。“我丈夫在渔业部上班，他去世后，他们允许我留在这里。”
In one of the cubicles on the third floor, Aung Ning Tun, a lawyer, said he would be reluctant to leave, even if offered modern office space elsewhere. “It’s very hot in the building, and it badly needs renovation, but it is very convenient to the courts,” he said.
三楼一个小隔间里的律师昂宁聪(Aung Ning Tun)说，即便有人给他在别处提供现代的办公空间，他也不愿意搬出。“呆在大楼里非常热，而且它亟需翻修，但从这里去法院很方便，”他说。
In the parts of the city outside the historic zone, the skyline has changed little, though life has become more hectic after decades of somnolence under the military dictatorship. Migrants from the countryside squeeze into crowded apartments; hundreds of thousands more cars, a product of the growing economy, create some of the worst gridlock in Southeast Asia. Some historic buildings have been demolished, including the grandiose 1895 government house resplendent with turrets and gables, and the house where the Chilean poet, Pablo Neruda, lived in the late 1920s.
虽然在这座因为军事独裁统治而浑浑噩噩地度过了好几十年的城市里，生活已经变得更加忙碌了，但在历史悠久的市中心以外的地方，天际线几乎没什么变化。拥挤的公寓楼里塞满了来自乡村的移民；作为经济增长成果的数十万车辆，制造出了东南亚地区最为严重的交通拥堵现象。一些历史悠久的建筑已经被拆除了，其中包括建于1895年的那栋外观宏伟、有着气派的塔楼和山墙的政府大楼，以及智利诗人巴勃罗•聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)在20世纪20年代末住过的房子。