The family of Nelson Mandela, who has been lying at the edge of death in a South African hospital for more than a month, might in the days or weeks to come face the same awful decision that has confronted numerous other families in an age of life-sustaining miracle machines: when is it time to say “enough.”
生命垂危的纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)已经在南非的一家医院躺了一个多月，他的家人或许要在未来几天或几周面对一个曾困扰无数家庭的艰难选择。在这个年代，当我们拥有了能维持生命的神奇机器，何时该说“到此为止”。
Medical experts in and outside South Africa who are not involved in the former president’s care have taken the government’s cryptic statement — that Mr. Mandela is in “critical but stable condition” — to mean that he is being sustained by equipment, which, given his advanced age, could present his relatives, doctors and the country with a wrenching choice about how long to keep the 94-year-old alive.
南非政府发表的隐晦声明指出，前总统曼德拉“病情严重但稳定”。南非国内外没有参与治疗的医学专家们则如此诠释：这就意味着，曼德拉正在靠仪器维持生命。鉴于他年事已高，他的亲属、医生包括这个国家，都将面临一个痛苦的抉择，要让这位94岁的老人如此活多久。
Any decision would be made in the glare of an international spotlight and would involve an extended family that has shown itself to be fractious about decisions regarding inheritance, his eventual burial location and his legacy. And it would do so under a set of South African laws and court precedents that leave some unnerving gray areas over who might make the ultimate decision.
国际社会将热切关注他们做出的任何决定，而任何决定都会牵扯到一个庞大而分裂的家族，他们已经在涉及遗产、曼德拉未来的埋葬地、他的精神遗产的决定上起了争执。关于谁能做出最终决定，这个家庭必须根据南非法律和法院判例做出一个抉择，尽管相关法律和判例都存在一些令人不安的灰色地带。
In cases where the patient has left a living will or has appointed a surrogate to act on his behalf, the path is clear. But in the absence of a living will, or if no surrogate has been chosen or there is more than one surrogate — like siblings or a sprawling extended family like the one Mr. Mandela has — South Africa’s law is not entirely clear, legal experts here say.
倘若病人曾留下生前预嘱，或者已经选定了能代表他的代理人，那么处理方法就很简单。但约翰内斯堡的法律专家说，在没有生前预嘱或没有选择代理人，或者代理人不止一人的情况下——比如多名兄弟姐妹，或是像曼德拉这样的大家族——南非的法律就没有十分明确的界定。
“It is not easy when you are confronted with the internal wrangling within the family that has spilled into the public domain,” said Nomboniso Gasa, a political and cultural analyst in Johannesburg. “Still, despite all the contention and all the fights the Mandelas seem to be having, I think they are quite aware that an end-of-life decision may need to be taken. But the high profile makes it so very difficult.”
“当你面临的家族内部矛盾发展曝露到了公众空间，决定就会很难，”约翰内斯堡的政治和文化分析人士诺姆博尼索·加萨(Nomboniso Gasa)说。“然而，尽管曼德拉家族似乎存在种种分歧和争执，但我认为他们非常清楚，他们可能需要做出终结生命的决定。但此事受到的关注又使决定异常艰难。”
This, too, is an age when ventilators, feeding tubes and other high-tech machines can keep people — even those in a permanent vegetative state — alive for months and even years, as in the case of Ariel Sharon, the 84-year-old former Israeli prime minister who has been in a coma since he had a devastating stroke in 2006.
在这个时代，人们可以用呼吸机、喂食管和其他高科技仪器来将生命延长数月乃至数年，即便面对处于永久植物状态的人也能够做到。84岁的以色列前总理阿里埃勒·沙龙(Ariel Sharon)就是这样的情况，经过2006年的一次严重中风，他一直处于昏迷状态。
Not enough is known about Mr. Mandela’s medical condition to know exactly how his case might fall under South African law, experts in medical legal issues say. A court affidavit filed in June in a dispute within the family over where Mr. Mandela might be buried claimed he was in a permanent vegetative state, but both family and medical team members have since denied this.
医学法律问题方面的专家称，由于对曼德拉病情的了解有限，所以他们无法确定，他的情况究竟涉及南非法律中的哪些具体条款。由于曼德拉家族内部对他的安葬地点有争议，他们今年6月向法院提交了一份证词，其中提到了曼德拉处于永久植物状态，但是他的家人和医疗小组成员都否定了这种说法。
Indeed, family members and friends who have visited him in recent days say that Mr. Mandela is sometimes awake, smiling, communicating with his eyes, even trying to talk. President Jacob Zuma, who visited Mr. Mandela as recently as Wednesday, said he was now responding to treatment.
实际上，近期探望过曼德拉的家人和朋友都说，曼德拉有时候会醒来，会微笑，还会用眼睛进行交流，甚至还曾试图开口说话。于本周三探望过曼德拉的南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)说，治疗起效了。
Still, the anti-apartheid leader’s condition is undeniably grave, and there is a great deal of skepticism about what the government and the family are saying about his condition.
然而，毫无疑问的是，这位反种族隔离运动领袖的情况并不乐观，而且人们也十分怀疑南非政府和曼德拉家人所描述的他的身体状况。
“I believe, personally, that there is a lack of honesty in this matter,” said Cheryl Webb, a counselor for the Family Law Clinic in Cape Town who has worked with families in similar situations. “You just get the feeling that the truth is not being told. We have elections coming up soon. There is talk of absolute chaos in the country after Mandela passes away. There are so many factors.”
“我个人认为，在这件事上，有关各方都有欠诚实，”开普敦家庭法中心(Family Law Clinic)顾问谢里尔·韦布(Cheryl Webb)说。“你就是有这样的感觉，他们没有说出真相。南非即将迎来大选。也有人说，曼德拉去世后，南非会大乱。有各种因素在内。”韦布曾帮助一些家庭处理相似的情况。
Such sentiments are not unusual.
这样的担忧不在少数。
“Not long ago, I was told authoritatively, hands on heart, that Mandela had died by people who knew people,” said Bonita Meyersfeld, director of the Center for Applied Legal Studies at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. “There is a great deal of misinformation. Nelson Mandela is an icon, but this time he is an icon for misinformation and not being told things.”
“不久以前，有辗转认识曼德拉的人拍着胸脯告诉我，他已经死了，”约翰内斯堡金山大学(University of the Witwatersrand)应用法律研究中心(Center for Applied Legal Studies)主任博妮塔·梅耶斯菲德(Bonita Meyersfeld)说。“有大量不实信息的存在。纳尔逊·曼德拉是一位标志性人物，但这次他却成了虚假信息和不告知民众的标志。”
The Mail & Guardian, a South African newspaper, has reported that Mr. Mandela does not have a living will. His family has not denied that, although family members have largely declined to provide a detailed accounting of the issues surrounding his illness. Nor is it known whether Mr. Mandela has appointed anyone to act as his surrogate in life-or-death decisions — like his wife, Graça Machel — in the event he is not capable of making them.
南非《邮政卫报》(Mail & Guardian)报道，曼德拉没有立过生前预嘱。他的家庭没有否认这一点，但他们基本上拒绝详细描述，围绕他的病情都有些什么问题。我们也不清楚，曼德拉是否指定了某人，在他不具有决断能力的时刻，代表他做出生死抉择，比如他的妻子格拉萨·马歇尔(Graça Machel)。
It was Mr. Mandela himself who, while still president in 1998, appointed the South African Law Reform Commission to compile a report on end-of-life issues. It found numerous gray areas in the law that it recommended be addressed, going so far as to propose a draft law to fill in the blanks.
1998年，在曼德拉本人仍然担任总统时，他亲自指定南非法律改革委员会(South African Law Reform Commission)整理了一份有关生命终结问题的报告。委员会发现，有关这些问题的法律存在着许多灰色地带，也建议对此予以重视，甚至还提交了一份法律草案来填补这些空白。
Such a law was presented before Parliament in 2000, but drew little support and was, as a result, ignored by the Ministry of Health after Mr. Mandela left office, Willem A. Landman, executive director of the Ethics Institute of South Africa, wrote last year in a paper called “End-of-Life Decisions, Ethics and the Law.”
去年，南非伦理研究所(Ethics Institute of South Africa)执行主任威廉·A·兰德曼(Willem A. Landman)写了一份题为《生命终结的决定，伦理和法律》(End-of-Life Decisions, Ethics and the Law)的论文，其中提到，这样一份法案于2000年提交议会，但是没有得到多少支持。后来曼德拉离任，南非卫生部(Ministry of Health)也就将其抛诸脑后。
Even the passage of the Health Care Act of 2003, which for the first time in South African law provided a definition of death — the cessation of all brain activity — did not clear up those legal issues.
2003年医疗法案(Health Care Act of 2003)通过后，首次在南非以法律形式定义了死亡——全部脑活动的停止，但即便该法也没能理清相关法律问题。
The law does give doctors the ability to remove a patient from life support, even without a family’s consent, if a patient has a living will and if brain activity has ceased, said Pieter Carstens, head of the Department of Public Law at the University of Pretoria and an expert on legal medical issues.
比勒陀利亚大学(University of Pretoria)公法部(Department of Public Law)负责人彼得·卡斯滕斯(Pieter Carstens) 也是医学法律方面的专家，他表示，这部法律规定，如果一位病人立下了生前预嘱，并且脑活动已停止，那么医生有权力为病人撤除维生设备，甚至无需取得家人的同意。
“It becomes problematic if one seeks consensus by way of an entire family if the patient is not brain-dead but in a permanent vegetative state without a living will or other directive,” Mr. Carstens wrote in an e-mail.
“但如果一位病人尚未脑死亡，却已处于永久性植物状态，也没有立下生前预嘱或其他任何指示，而且还要寻求整个家庭的一致意见，这时就会出现问题，”卡斯滕斯在一封邮件中表示。
If no consensus is possible and the medical team is convinced that lifesaving measures should cease, Mr. Carstens said, he would advise doctors to seek a court order. Whether any medical team would dare to do so in the case of a figure like Mr. Mandela is an open question.
卡斯滕斯说，如果家庭无法取得共识，而医疗团队却确信，应该停止进行医疗救助，他会建议医生们请求法庭出具命令。但是，在面对像曼德拉这样的人物时，是否还有任何医疗团队敢这么做，就不得而知了。
“You want to make sure that everybody is comfortable, that is the goal,” Ms. Gasa said. “But is that possible in this case? That is the question. Can this be done now?”
“你想确保每个人都满意，这是目标，”加萨说。“但在这件事上要每个人都满意，可能吗？这就是问题所在。现在能做到吗？”