Fifty years ago this summer, the nation was transfixed by a medical drama that is now largely forgotten: the desperate struggle to save the life of Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, the first baby born to a sitting president and first lady since the 19th century.
50年前的这个夏天，全美国人将注意力牢牢地放在一桩时至今日已为人淡忘的医疗剧上：人们在疯狂地想要挽救派特里克·布维尔·肯尼迪(Patrick Bouvier Kennedy)的生命，这是自19世纪以来，由在位总统和第一夫人生育的第一个新生儿。
Five and a half weeks premature, delivered by Caesarean section on Aug. 7, 1963, at Otis Air Force Base on Cape Cod, Patrick weighed a relatively robust 4 pounds 10 1/2 ounces. But he immediately began having trouble breathing, three of his doctors recalled in recent interviews — the first they have given publicly.
派特里克在1963年8月7日，经剖宫产手术，在科德角的奥蒂斯空军基地出生，早产了五周半。他的体重不算太轻，为4磅零10.5盎司（合2.11公斤）。但他很快出现了呼吸困难症状，在最近的采访中，他的三位医生回顾了当时的情况——这是他们首次接受公开采访。
His father, President John F. Kennedy, kept asking them, “Will he be retarded?,” one of the doctors said. (His younger sister Rosemary was born mentally retarded.)
一位医生说，他的父亲约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)总统不断问他们：“他会因此变傻吗？”（他的妹妹罗丝玛丽有先天性智力障碍。）
With the answer unknowable, a senior physician directed attention to the medical team’s immediate role — saving Patrick’s life. It was a battle that would almost certainly have a different outcome today.
在场的高年资医生对此无此知晓，他向医疗团队传达了此时最急迫的任务——挽救派特里克的性命。如果换成是今天，医生们想必能打赢这场战斗。
Patrick died just 39 hours after his birth, a victim of what was then the most common cause of death among premature infants in the United States, killing an estimated 25,000 babies each year: hyaline membrane disease, now known as respiratory distress syndrome.
派特里克在出生39个小时后夭折，他死于当时在美国早产儿最常见的死因：肺透明膜病，现在通常称为呼吸窘迫综合症，当时美国每年预计有2.5万婴儿死于这种疾病。
His story bears retelling because it highlights the enormous advances in neonatal care over the last half century, and provides a rare glimpse into how a president dealt with a major emotional event.
他的故事值得再次提起，是因为它反映出了在过去这半个世纪里新生儿护理方面取得的长足进步，同时也让人们得以窥见总统是如何应对一场重大的情感事件的。
The term hyaline refers to a glassy membrane that can form in the air sacs of premature infants, impeding their ability to extract oxygen from inhaled air. At the time, medicine had little to offer babies with the disease, other than warm incubators and good nursing care; if a baby made it through on its own for 48 hours, its chances of survival were good. (Newton, Einstein, Picasso and Churchill are cited as examples of preemies who survived.)
所谓“透明膜”指的是早产儿肺泡中形成的一种像玻璃纸一样的薄膜，而这种薄膜可影响他们吸入空气中滤过氧气的能力。在当时，对于患这种疾病的新生儿，除了提供保温箱和良好的护理，医学几乎束手无策；如果新生儿挺过了最初的48小时，那么他的生存机率将较为乐观。（据说，牛顿、爱因斯坦、毕加索和丘吉尔都是死里逃生的早产儿典范。）
Jacqueline Kennedy had a history of troubled pregnancies; she had already had one miscarriage and had delivered a stillborn daughter, in addition to their children, Caroline, then 5, and John Jr., then 2.
杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)有高危妊娠史；除了育有卡萝琳（Caroline，当时5岁）和小约翰（John Jr. ，当时2岁），她还曾经历过一次流产，娩出过一个胎死腹中的女儿。
In Patrick’s first hours, his mother’s obstetrician, Dr. John W. Walsh, called Boston Children’s Hospital, a Harvard affiliate. He spoke with the hospital’s chief resident in pediatrics, Dr. James Hughes.
派特里克出生不久，他母亲的产科大夫约翰·W·沃尔什(John W. Walsh)就向隶属于哈佛大学(Harvard)的波士顿儿童医院(Boston Children’s Hospital)拨去电话。他联系到的是医院儿科的总住院医师詹姆斯·休斯(James Hughes)。
Dr. Hughes, who now lives in Vermont, says he suspected the call was a hoax. But he was able to verify it, and he called an attending pediatrician, Dr. James E. Drorbaugh, who promptly asked his patients to reschedule their appointments, left his office and jumped on a helicopter flight to the Otis hospital.
现居佛蒙特州的休斯医生说，当时他还以为这通电话是恶作剧。但他得以验证了来电者的真实身份，随即电召医院主治医生詹姆斯·E·德罗鲍(James E. Drorbaugh)，后者立刻请所有病人将预约改期，离开诊室，登上了一架飞往奥蒂斯医院的直升飞机。
Dr. Drorbaugh — now in Hawaii — remembers being greeted by the president, who asked him to examine the baby. Finding Patrick in moderate distress, “with a rapid respiratory rate and grunting, with lots of effort going into each breath,” he advised transferring the infant to Boston.
德罗鲍医生现在定居夏威夷，他回忆说，自己受到了总统先生的迎接，并请他查看宝宝的病情。他发现派特里克的情况有些危殆，“呼吸急促并有喘吸音，每次呼吸都非常艰难，”于是建议将病儿转到波士顿。
The president asked if the Children’s Hospital facilities could be brought to the Cape, but Dr. Drorbaugh replied that they could not be.
总统询问说，波士顿儿童医院的设备是否可运到科德角来，但德罗鲍回答说，他们做不到这一点。
Before leaving Otis, Dr. Drorbaugh said President Kennedy asked him to join him in wheeling the baby into the first lady’s room. She reached into the Isolette and held Patrick’s hand for about 10 minutes — the last time she would see him alive.
德罗鲍医生说，在离开奥蒂斯基地前，肯尼迪总统请他和自己一起将宝宝推到第一夫人的病房里去。她伸手探向保温箱，将派特里克的手握了10来分钟——这是她最后一次见到孩子活着的样子。
The baby was rushed back to Boston. In those days there were no neonatal I.C.U.’s, and ventilators, a standard therapy today, had yet to be used for premature babies. Moreover, it was August, and most of the senior physicians were on vacation, recalled a third doctor, Welton M. Gersony, then training in pediatric cardiology.
孩子被迅速送到波士顿。在那时，没有新生儿重症监护病房(I.C.U.)，而今常规用于治疗的人工呼吸机尚未在早产新生儿身上得以应用。此外，据当时在小儿心脏病科受训的威尔顿·M·格松尼(Welton M. Gersony)医生回忆，那会儿时值8月，大部分资深医生不巧都在休假。
“The junior doctors felt overwhelmed and were desperate to get a senior person,” said Dr. Gersony, who later became chief of pediatric cardiology at what is now Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital.
“年轻大夫们都吓坏了，着急忙慌地想要找到资深大夫，”格松尼医生说。他后来成为了医院小儿心脏病科的主任，它是摩根·斯坦利儿童医院(Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital)的前身。
So the hospital called Dr. Gersony’s mentor, Dr. Alexander S. Nadas, a pioneer in pediatric cardiology, who arrived the next day, Thursday, Aug. 8, from Cape Cod. Patrick’s breathing had become even more labored and Dr. Nadas said, “Welton, we go see the president” — his Hungarian accent turning the w’s into v’s.
于是院方联系了格松尼的导师、小儿心脏病学的先驱人物亚历山大·S·纳达斯(Alexander S. Nadas)，这位医生在次日，也就是8月8日星期四，从科德角赶来医院。此时派特里克的呼吸已经变得更为困难，纳达斯医生说：“威尔顿，我们得去见总统”——他说话带着匈牙利口音，将“w”发成“v”。
Dr. Gersony said President Kennedy appeared “tanned, calm, cool and very polite as Dr. Nadas explained some of the things we would do.” To his insistence on knowing whether the baby would be retarded, Dr. Nadas responded, “Mr. President, we are trying to save the baby’s life.” The president dropped the subject.
格松尼说，肯尼迪总统看起来“黝黑、镇定、冷静，而且非常礼貌，听着纳达斯医生解释我们将要采取的措施。”总统坚持想要了解孩子是否会变痴呆，对此纳达斯回应说：“总统先生，我们现在是在努力救回孩子的命。”总统就此不再谈起这个话题。
Pierre Salinger, the White House press secretary, conveyed a message from Mrs. Kennedy’s sister, Lee Radziwill, who urged the president to send for Dr. Samuel Z. Levine, a prominent Manhattan pediatrician who had cared for her own premature baby. Secret Service agents located him strolling in Central Park and whisked the startled physician to Boston.
白宫新闻秘书皮埃尔·塞林格(Pierre Salinger)转达了肯尼迪夫人的姐姐李·拉齐维尔(Lee Radziwill)的口信，她敦促总统赶紧找人把塞缪尔·Z·莱文(Samuel Z. Levine)医生给请来，他是纽约曼哈顿的一位知名儿科大夫，她本人也曾生过一个早产儿，就是这位大夫治疗的。特工将正在中央公园散步的莱文医生一把拦住，将惊惶失色的他送到波士顿。
Dr. Hughes, the chief resident in pediatrics, recalled that Dr. Levine told the president, “I am very impressed with the efficiency of government” — to which Kennedy, a veteran of political battles with the American Medical Association, replied, “It’s about time you doctors learned that.”
儿科总住院医师休斯回忆说，莱文医生对总统说，“我对政府的效率刮目相看”——对此，曾与美国医学协会(American Medical Association)进行过数次政治斗争的肯尼迪回答说：“是时候让你们医生知道这一点了。”
At the time, Boston Children’s Hospital was using a pressurized device called a hyperbaric chamber to increase blood oxygen in so-called blue babies — those with congenital heart defects that deprived them of enough oxygen. The hospital had tried the procedure on preemies two or three times without success, but lacking anything else to offer Patrick, the team thought it was worth the medical equivalent of a Hail Mary pass.
当时波士顿儿童医院使用一种叫高压氧舱的加压装置来帮助提升所谓“紫绀婴儿”的血液含氧量——那些患有先天性心脏缺陷的婴儿因缺氧而呈现出紫绀症状。医院在早产儿身上尝试过几次这种治疗，并未获得成功，但医疗团队此时已经毫无办法，觉得此举跟胸前划十字一样，总之值得一试。
The doctors told the president of the risks, including blindness from excess oxygen; whether he discussed them with his wife, who remained hospitalized on Cape Cod, is unclear.
医生们向总统介绍了治疗的危险，包括可能会因氧气浓度过高导致失明；而他是否跟仍在科德角住院的妻子讨论过此事，则不得而知。
Through a window in the 31-by-8-foot steel chamber, the president gazed at his son. At first he seemed to improve, but not for long. He died in the early hours of Friday, Aug. 9.
高压氧舱是一个长31英尺宽8英尺（长9.4米宽2.4米）的金属小屋，透过一扇窗，总统凝望着他的儿子。刚开始，小婴儿的情况似乎有所好转，但持续时间不长。他死在8月9日星期五的清晨。
During the ordeal, the president rarely showed emotions to those around him. But after retreating to his private room in the hospital, close aides have written, he wept.
在这场折磨中，总统几乎没有向身边的人流露过自己的感情。但他的随从后来写道，在回到医院自己的私人房间时，他哭了。
Patrick’s death was eclipsed a few months later by Kennedy’s assassination in Dallas, and it is barely remembered today. But at the time, it sparked interest in research on prematurity.
派特里克的死，在几个月后因肯尼迪在达拉斯被刺而黯然失色，如今已经鲜为人知。但在当时，它点燃了人们对早产研究的兴趣。
Over the next decade or so, innovations from physicians, nurses and others led to bold and successful treatments for babies of increasingly lower birth weights. In particular, scientists discovered that hyaline membrane disease resulted from a deficiency of surfactant, a substance that lines the air sacs in the lungs. Surfactant replacement shortened the length of ventilation therapy. This and other advances gave rise to a new specialty, neonatology.
在其后的十来年里，来自医生、护士和其他人的革新，令新生儿得到了大胆而成功的治疗，而且这些存活早产儿的体重不断创下新低纪录。专就肺透明膜病而言，科研人员发现它是因缺乏连接肺泡的表面活性物质而造成的。补充了这种表面活性物质就可以缩短人工呼吸机治疗的时间。它和其他科研进展催生了一门新的专科：新生儿科学。
The risks of cognitive impairment are somewhat higher for babies like Patrick than those for a baby born at full term. But even with the advances today, many more severely affected premature babies develop devastating complications that keep them in costly neonatal units for months and affect their neurological and cognitive functions later in life. Ethical debates continue over when and how long neonatal care should be given.
相比足月生产的婴儿，像派特里克这种早产儿出现认知损害的机率确实要高一些。但就算医学发展到今天的水平，还是有大量受严重创伤的早产儿出现了致命的并发症，因此需要在昂贵的新生儿病房接受多达数月的治疗，而且今后的神经和认知能力也可能受损。人们一直在进行着伦理学的探讨：应在何时给予新生儿治疗，需要持续多久。
As physicians often do in reviewing their clinical judgment in managing a difficult case, Dr. Drorbaugh said he had often wondered whether “we did the right thing” in putting Patrick in the chamber.
医生们常常反复对自己处理某个棘手病例时的临床判断进行评判，德罗鲍医生也不例外，他说，他常常想，将派特里克推进高压氧舱是否“是在做正确的事情”。
“Before we had any thought of the hyperbaric chamber, we watched these babies struggle and struggle and go downhill, and some of them survived,” he said, “so we can’t arbitrarily say because we thought he was going downhill, he would not have survived.”
“在对高压氧舱产生认识前，我们曾看着这些新生儿挣扎、再挣扎，接着情况急转直下，但其中有些宝宝确实活下来了，”他说：“所以我们不能武断地说，因为我们觉得他的情况会越来越差，他就连一线生机都没有了。”
But this much is known: If Patrick were being born in August 2013, his odds of surviving would be better than 95 percent.
不过，这一点非常清楚：假如派特里克是在2013年的8月出生，他的生存机会将超过95%。