SAN FRANCISCO — For the second time in four months, researchers at a computer security company are connecting the Russian government to electronic espionage efforts around the world.
旧金山——四个月来，一家计算机安全公司的研究人员第二次将俄罗斯政府和全球性的电子间谍活动联系起来。
In a report released on Tuesday by FireEye, a Silicon Valley firm, researchers say hackers working for the Russian government have for seven years been using sophisticated techniques to break into computer networks, including systems run by the government of Georgia, other Eastern European governments and militaries, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other European security organizations
在硅谷的火眼公司(FireEye)周二发布的一份报告中，研究人员称，为俄罗斯政府工作的黑客七年来一直在使用复杂的技术侵入电脑网络，其对象包括格鲁吉亚与其他东欧国家的政府和军队，以及北大西洋公约组织(North Atlantic Treaty Organization)等欧洲安全机构。
The report does not cite any direct evidence of Russian government involvement, such as a web server address or the individuals behind the attack, nor does it name the Russian agency responsible. The researchers have made the government connection because the malicious software used in the incidents was written during Moscow and St. Petersburg working hours on computers that use Russian language settings and because the targets closely align with Russian intelligence interests.
报告没有援引任何俄罗斯政府参与的直接证据，比如某台网络服务器的地址，或策划攻击的某个个人，也没有提到哪个俄罗斯机构应该为此负责。研究人员建立政府联系的依据是，攻击中使用的恶意软件是在莫斯科和圣彼得堡的工作时间编写的，编写用的电脑使用了俄语设置，而且攻击目标与俄罗斯的情报利益密切相关。
“This is state espionage,” Laura Galante, FireEye’s manager of threat intelligence, said in an interview on Tuesday. “This is Russia using its network operations to bolster their key political goals.”
“这是政府间谍行为，”FireEye威胁情报经理劳拉·加兰特(Laura Galante)在周二接受采访时说。“这是俄罗斯在利用其网络行动，为他们的重点政治目标服务。”
Officials at the Russian Embassy in Washington could not be immediately reached for comment.
记者无法当即与俄罗斯驻华盛顿大使馆官员取得联系并置评。
FireEye is one of several security firms to tie the Russian government to hacking incidents. In July, three security firms, Symantec, F-Secure and CrowdStrike, also tied a string of coordinated attacks on Western oil and gas companies to Moscow.
火眼是数家将俄罗斯政府与黑客行为联系起来的安全公司之一。七月，赛门铁克(Symantec)、F-Secure和CrowdStrike等三家安全公司也将一系列针对西方石油和天然气公司的有组织攻击和莫斯科联系了起来。
United States intelligence analysts have long cited Russia as a major concern. One top-secret 2009 National Security Agency intelligence estimate obtained by The New York Times last year named Russia as the most sophisticated adversary for the United States in cyberspace.
一直以来，美国情报分析人士都认为俄罗斯是一个主要威胁。《纽约时报》去年获取的一份2009年的国家安全局(National Security Agency)绝密文件中估计，俄罗斯是美国在网络空间里最老辣的对手。
The FireEye report notes, however, that it is often difficult to discern between Russian government attacks and attacks conducted by Russian cybercriminals.
火眼的报告还指出，俄罗斯政府的攻击和俄罗斯网络犯罪分子的攻击是很难分辨的。
“You only exist as a significant Russian cybercriminal if you abide by three rules,” said Tom Kellermann, chief cybersecurity officer at Trend Micro, a security firm based in Irving, Tex. “You are not allowed to hack anything within the sovereign boundary; if you find anything of interest to the regime you share it; and when called upon for ‘patriotic activities,’ you do so. In exchange you get ‘untouchable status.’ ”
“只有遵守三条规则，你才能作为一个显赫的俄罗斯网络罪犯生存下去，”德克萨斯州埃尔文的安全公司趋势科技(Trend Micro)首席网络安全官汤姆·凯勒曼(Tom Kellermann)说。“你不能在主权疆界内从事任何黑客活动；如果发现政权会感兴趣的东西，你要分享出来；号召你们从事‘爱国活动’时，你得去做。这样可以给你换来一个‘逍遥法外’的身份。”
One top-secret 2009 N.S.A. report, for example, named the Russian Nashi, a pro-Kremlin youth group, as the culprit behind the powerful 2007 cyberattacks on Estonia that nearly crippled the Baltic nation.
比如2009年的一份国家安全局绝密文件中提到，俄罗斯的一个支持克里姆林宫的青年团体“纳什”(Nashi)，是2007年爱沙尼亚遭受的那次大型网络攻击的执行者，那次攻击几乎令这个波罗的海国家陷入瘫痪。
American officials also said Russian hackers were responsible for a similar attack on Kyrgyzstan in January 2009 that, analysts suspected, was connect to efforts to persuade Kyrgyzstan’s president to evict an American military base there. Shortly after the attacks ceased, Kyrgyzstan announced plans to remove the military base and received $2 billion in aid and loans from Moscow.
美国官员还说，2009年1月吉尔吉斯斯坦遭到的一次类似的攻击，也是出自俄罗斯黑客之手，分析人士怀疑，那起行动是为了说服吉尔吉斯斯坦总统将该国的美军基地赶走。在攻击结束后不久，吉尔吉斯斯坦宣布取缔军事基地，并从莫斯科获得了20亿美元（约合122亿元人民币）的援助和贷款。
Those attacks were distributed denial-of-service, or so-called DDoS attacks, aimed at flooding foreign networks with web traffic to knock them offline. Over the last seven years, FireEye researchers say, Moscow has crafted and honed sophisticated malware tools and deployed them, in many cases undetected, on the networks of its neighbors and adversaries.
那些攻击都是分布式拒绝服务，也叫DDoS攻击，目的是用网络流量来冲击外国网络，迫使它们下线。火眼研究人员称，过去七年里，莫斯科精心制作和打磨了一些高水平的恶意软件工具，并把它们部署在了邻国和敌国的网络里，其中有许多未被发现。
The espionage campaign, called APT28 by researchers at FireEye, started in 2007. Security researchers say professional hackers have been infecting their targets with malware, using emails containing malicious links and attachments. This malware can change its characteristics, making it hard to detect.
这次间谍活动始于2007年，被火眼研究人员称为APT28。安全研究人员说，职业黑客会通过含有恶意链接和附件的电子邮件，让他们的目标感染恶意软件。这种恶意软件可以改变自身特征，因此很难探测到。
Researchers say the malware is particularly good for creating back doors into computer networks that allow hackers to come and go without being detected. The code is also designed to be flexible, allowing its builders to adjust it and add new features, and it uses encryption to evade security researchers. It was also built to stop running malicious programs the second it recognizes an attempt to reverse-engineer the code, which is a sign that it has been detected.
研究人员说，这些恶意软件尤其善于在计算机网络中制作后门，让黑客可以自由出入，不被发现。代码也考虑了灵活性，编写者可以对它进行微调，加入新特性，并使用加密来避开安全研究人员。在发现有人企图对代码进行反向工程的时候，它还可以立即停止恶意程序运行，因为那意味着程序的存在被侦测到了。
Ms. Galante said FireEye’s researchers uncovered the campaign on computer networks of some of its clients. They were able to reverse-engineer the code enough to uncover many tools and signatures and unearth more about the people and operation behind it before the malicious programs stopped running.
加兰特说火眼的研究人员发现了针对其部分客户的电脑网络攻击。他们对代码的反向工程已经足以发现许多工具和签名，并在程序停止运行前对其背后的人和运作有更多的了解。
The FireEye research was reported by The Wall Street Journal.
《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)对火眼的研究进行了报道。
The targets, FireEye’s researchers say, include the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia and its Ministry of Defense, journalists writing on Caucasus issues, and the Kavkaz Center, an international news agency focused on issues in Chechnya, Russia, and Islam. Researchers have also tied the campaign to attacks on the governments of Poland and Hungary and an Eastern European government’s ministry of foreign affairs. European security organizations, including NATO, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and the Baltic Host, a military exercise, have also been targets.
火眼研究人员说，攻击的目标包括格鲁吉亚内政部(Ministry of Internal Affairs)和国防部(Ministry of Defense)、从事高加索问题报道的记者，以及专注于报道俄罗斯车臣和伊斯兰问题的国际新闻机构高加索中心(Kavkaz Center)。研究人员还将波兰、匈牙利政府以及一个东欧国家政府的外交部所受攻击和该行动联系了起来。北约、欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)等欧洲安全机构以及“波罗的海主人”(Baltic Host)军事演习也成为了目标。
The firm’s researchers also note that the same group has spied on governments and organizations that are not deemed immediate Russian threats, including the Chilean military, the government of Mexico, and the Al-Wayi news organization, a Russian-language magazine for readers in the Middle East.
公司研究人员还提到，同样是这个黑客组织，对一些看起来不对俄罗斯构成直接威胁的政府和组织也进行了间谍活动，包括智利军方、墨西哥政府以及面向中东读者的俄文杂志《阿尔瓦依》(Al-Wayi)。