KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia —  The first comprehensive report into the mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 on Sunday revealed that the battery of an underwater locator beacon had expired more than a year before the plane vanished on March 8, 2014.
马来西亚吉隆坡——关于马来西亚航空公司370航班失踪谜团的第一份全面报告于周日公布，报告披露，在飞机于2014年3月8日消失时，机上一个水下定位信标的电池已经失效一年多了。
Apart from that anomaly, the detailed report devoted pages after pages to describe the complete normality of the flight, shedding little light on aviation's biggest mystery.
但除了电池的异常问题外，这份详尽的报告用大量篇幅描述航班的正常情况，对这个航空界最大的谜团语焉不详。
"The sole objective of the investigation is the prevention of future accidents or incidents, and not for the purpose to apportion blame or liability," the report said.
报告写道，“调查的唯一目标是防止事故或事件的发生，而不是为了分摊过失或责任。”
The significance of the expired battery on the beacon of the Flight Data Recorder was not immediately apparent, except indicating that searchers would have had lesser chance of locating the aircraft in the Indian Ocean, where it is believed to have crashed, even if they were in its vicinity. However, the report said that the battery on the locator beacon of the cockpit voice recorder was working.
飞行数据记录仪信标电池失效的严重性并未立即显现，但意味着即使搜索人员就在印度洋中据信的坠毁地点附近，找到飞机的可能性也更低了。但报告称，驾驶舱语音记录器的定位信标电池情况正常。
Even though the battery on the beacon had expired, the instrument itself was functioning properly and would have in theory captured all the flight information.
虽然信标电池已经失效，仪器自身仍运行正常，理论上已经记录了全部飞行信息。
The two instruments are critical in any crash because they record cockpit conversation and flight data, leading up to the end of the flight.
这两部仪器在飞机坠毁事故中作用重要，因为它们记录了导致事故发生的驾驶舱内的对话和飞行数据。
The 584-page report by an independent investigation group went into minute details of the crew's lives — their medical and financial records, their training before detailing the aircraft's service record — as well as maintenance schedule, weather, communications systems and other aspects that showed nothing unusual except for the one previously undisclosed fact of the battery's expiry date.
这份由独立调查小组撰写的长584页的报告包括了机组人员的许多细节，如他们的医疗及财务记录，他们的培训情况，然后详细描述了飞机的服务记录，以及维护时间表、天气及通讯系统等方方面面。除了之前不为人知的电池失效日期，其他内容并未显示任何异常。
It said that according to maintenance records, the battery on the beacon attached to the Flight Data Recorder expired in December 2012, but because of a computer data error it went unnoticed by maintenance crews. "There is some extra margin in the design to account for battery life variability and ensure that the unit will meet the minimum requirement," it said.
报告称，根据维护记录，飞行数据记录仪上的信标电池于2012年12月失效，但由于计算机数据错误，维护人员并未发现这个问题。”报告说，为应对电池寿命可能发生的异常，设计时已留有余地，以保证达到最低运行要求。
"However, once beyond the expiry date, the (battery's) effectiveness decreases so it may operate, for a reduced time period until it finally discharges," the report said. While it is possible the battery will operate past the expiry date, "it is not guaranteed that it will work or that it would meet the 30-day minimum requirement," said the report.
“然而，一旦过了有效期，电池的性能就会下降。在完全耗完电之前，电池还会继续运行较短时间，”报告写道。虽然电池有可能在过了失效日期之后还会继续运转，“但并无保证它能正常工作，或者可以达到运转30天的最低要求，”报告称。
The report gave insight into the flight Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah's physical and mental well-being, saying he had no known history of apathy, anxiety or irritability. "There were no significant changes in his lifestyle, interpersonal conflict or family stresses," it said.
报告深入介绍了机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)的身体和精神健康状况，称他没有任何已知的冷漠、焦虑或易怒的历史。“他的生活方式、人际关系、家庭压力方面都没有明显的改变，”报告称。
It also said there were "no behavioral signs of social isolation, change in habits or interest, self-neglect, drug or alcohol abuse" by Zaharie, his first officer and the cabin crew.
报告还说，扎哈里、副驾驶及机组人员“没有社交孤立、习惯及兴趣的改变、自我忽视、吸毒或酗酒的行为迹象”。
Financial check also showed nothing abnormal about their gross monthly income and spending pattern. It said Zaharie held several bank accounts and two national trust funds. He had two houses and 3 vehicles, but there was no record of him having a life insurance policy.
财务检查也未发现他们的月收入和消费模式有任何异常。检查结果显示扎哈里持有数个银行账户和两个国家信托基金。他拥有两所房屋和三辆车，但没有记录显示他有人寿保险单。
The co-pilot, First Officer Fariq Abdul Hamid, had two saving accounts and a national trust fund account. He owned two cars and "spent money on the upkeep" of his cars. "He does not have much savings in his bank account. He has a life insurance policy," it said.
副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)有两个储蓄账户和一个国家信托基金账户。他拥有两辆车，并“花钱保养”他的车。“他的银行账户里没有多少存款。他有寿险保单，”报告说。
The report also said 221 kilograms of lithium ion batteries packed by Motorola Solutions in northern Penang state didn't go through security screening at Penang airport. The shipment was inspected physically by the airline cargo personnel and went through customs inspection and clearance before it was sealed and left Penang a day before the flight. At the Kuala Lumpur airport, it was loaded onto the plane without any additional security screening.
报告还说，由位于槟城北部的摩托罗拉业务解决方案(Motorola Solutions)包装的221千克锂离子电池没有在槟城机场通过安检。这批货物由航空公司货运人员人工检查，通过了海关验放，然后在该航班出事前一天被密封并离开槟城。在吉隆坡机场，这些电池被装上飞机，并未接受任何其他安全检查。