BEIJING — The Chinese government is trying to slow down the approval of new coal-fired power plants because of overcapacity, but projects already in the pipeline, as well as loopholes in policy, mean China is on track to add an average of one new coal-fired plant a week until 2020, according to a report released on Wednesday by Greenpeace East Asia.
北京——据绿色和平组织东亚分部周三公布的一份报告称，由于产能过剩，中国政府正在努力放缓新燃煤电厂的审批，但是已经批准的项目与政策中的漏洞，意味着中国在2020年到来前，仍在以平均每周一个的速度建设新的燃煤电厂。
The construction boom would result in about 400 gigawatts of excess capacity and would waste more than one trillion renminbi, or $150 billion, on building unneeded plants, the report said.
报告称，这个建设热潮将在不必要的燃煤电厂上浪费超过1万亿元人民币的投资，并导致约400千兆瓦的过剩产能。
China now has 910 gigawatts of coal-fired capacity and is expected to retire 70 gigawatts of that. The new construction means the country would increase capacity at a time when additional coal-fired power is not needed, Greenpeace said.
中国目前的燃煤发电能力是910千兆瓦，其中有70千兆瓦的产能预计将被淘汰。绿色和平组织表示，新的建设项目意味着，在不需要更多燃煤电厂的时候，中国仍在增加产能。
As part of its broad climate change policy, China — the world’s biggest emitter of greenhouse gases — has promised that it would try to make 20 percent of its energy renewable by 2030. But given the planned growth in coal power capacity, some environmentalists question that goal.
中国是世界上最大的温室气体排放国，作为其应对气候变化的全面政策的一部分，中国已经承诺争取在2030年前将能源组合中的20％变为可再生能源。但考虑到计划中的燃煤发电能力的增长，一些环保人士对这个目标的实现表示怀疑。
“China’s worsening coal overcapacity crisis is acting as a dead weight on the country’s ongoing energy transition,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, who wrote the report with Shen Xinyi.
“中国日益严重的燃煤电厂产能过剩的危机，是中国目前能源转型的沉重负担，”柳力(Lauri Myllyvirta)说，他与沈昕一一起撰写了这份报告。
Representatives of China’s hydropower and wind power industries have complained of the glut of coal power plants. The addition of a large number of such plants would make it harder for companies specializing in non-fossil-fuel energy to be profitable because coal-fired plants can more easily secure contracts with the major state-owned electrical grid companies.
中国的水电、风电等行业的代表已经在抱怨燃煤电厂产能过剩的问题。燃煤电厂的大量增长将让致力于非化石燃料的公司更难盈利，因为燃煤电厂更容易从国有的电网公司获得入网合同。
Mr. Myllyvirta and other Greenpeace researchers have been trying to calculate the amount of overcapacity of coal-fired power plants in China. Greenpeace East Asia released its first report on the topic in November, noting that 155 projects had received a permit in 2015, equal to 40 percent of operational coal power plants in the United States.
柳力及绿色和平组织的其他研究人员一直在试图计算中国燃煤发电的过剩产能。绿色和平组织东亚分部在去年11月份首次发布有关报告指出，共有155个燃煤电厂项目在2015年获得了许可，相当于美国目前运营的燃煤电厂总数的40％。
In March, Greenpeace revised that number upward, saying 210 new or proposed plants, with a total capacity of 165 gigawatts, had received environmental permits last year. Greenpeace tracked China’s proposed capacity by examining provincial websites for permit approvals.
今年3月，绿色和平组织调高了这个数字，称去年有210座新建或拟建燃煤电厂获得了环境许可，总装机容量达165千兆瓦。绿色和平组织通过在省政府的网站上查找许可证的审批信息，来跟踪中国拟建的煤电产能。
There are already too many coal-fired power plants in China, as shown by a steady decline in the plants’ average operating hours since 2013, according to official statistics. China also used less coal in 2015 compared with 2014, and coal-producing companies across China have complained of a deepening slump in the industry.
据官方统计，中国目前已经拥有过多的燃煤电厂，而产能过剩表现在，自2013年以来，燃煤电厂平均运行的小时数在持续下降。中国2015年的煤炭使用量与2014年相比有所减少，中国各地的煤炭生产企业也在抱怨煤炭行业日益深化的衰退。
The boom in approval of coal-fired power plants began in early 2015, after the central government said provincial governments could approve projects.
燃煤电厂的审批热潮始于2015年初，那之前，中央政府曾表示，省级政府可批准这类项目。
But the central government has tried to rein in the approvals, and it announced a policy in April to limit capacity and retire some plants. Under that policy, about 110 gigawatts of proposed capacity would be suspended and 70 gigawatts would be retired by 2020, according to the Greenpeace report on Wednesday.
但是，中央政府后来试图严格控制审批，并在今年4月宣布了一项限制产能和淘汰一些燃煤电厂的政策。绿色和平组织周三的报告称，按照这一政策，大约110千兆瓦的拟建产能将暂停，现有产能中的70千兆瓦将在2020年前被淘汰。
But plants that would add 200 gigawatts are already under construction, and projects adding 165 gigawatts could get permits despite the new limits, Greenpeace said.
但是，绿色和平组织表示，已经开工的燃煤电厂将增添200千兆瓦的产能，尽管出台了新的限制，仍有许多燃煤电厂有望拿到许可证，这些电厂将进一步增添165千兆瓦的产能。
Mr. Myllyvirta said that he and his colleagues estimated there would be 600 new coal-fired units, or boilers, at 290 plant sites.
柳力说，他和他的同事们估计，将有600个新的燃煤机组分布在各地的290个燃煤电厂中。
Greenpeace said that northern and northwestern provinces and regions that are designated new “coal bases” have been trying to approve or build plants as quickly as possible. These include the provinces of Shanxi and Shaanxi and the region of Inner Mongolia, all of which have large coal reserves and whose economies depend on coal.
绿色和平组织说，北部和西北省份、以及那些被指定为新“煤炭基地”的地区正在试图尽快地批准或建设煤电项目。其中包括山西省、陕西省以及内蒙古，都是拥有巨大煤炭储量、经济依赖煤炭的地方。
The industrial burning of coal is the biggest source of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas responsible for climate change. It is also the main contributor to the air pollution in many Chinese cities.
工业燃煤是二氧化碳的最大来源，二氧化碳是导致气候变化的主要温室气体。燃煤也是中国许多城市空气污染的主要原因。