WASHINGTON — The FBI has made great strides since the Sept. 11 attacks and has prevented other catastrophic acts of terrorism, but it urgently needs to improve its intelligence capabilities and hire more linguists to counter the rapidly evolving threats to the United States, according to a report released Wednesday.
华盛顿——周三发布的一份报告认为，自9·11袭击发生以来，联邦调查局(FBI)取得了长足进步，阻止了其他灾难性恐怖事件的发生，不过，它仍然急需提高情报能力并聘请更多语言专家，从而应对美国面临的迅速升级的种种威胁。
The report by the FBI 9/11 Review Commission said that the bureau needed elevate the status of its analysts and to enhance its ability to gain information from people and to analyze it, contending that the bureau lags “behind marked advances in law enforcement capabilities.”
“联邦调查局9·11评估委员会”(FBI 9/11 Review Commission)的这份报告称，FBI需要提高分析师的地位，强化从线人那里获取信息并加以分析的能力。报告称，FBI“执法能力取得了明显进步，但其他方面的能力落在了后面”。
“This imbalance needs urgently to be addressed to meet growing and increasingly complex national security threats, from adaptive and increasingly tech-savvy terrorists, more brazen computer hackers, and more technically capable, global cyber syndicates,” the report said.
文中写道，“这种不平衡的状况急需加以改进，从而应对不断增长和日益复杂的国家安全威胁。这些威胁来自具有很强适应性、越来越通晓技术的恐怖分子，愈加肆无忌惮的网络黑客，以及技术能力不断增强的全球网络犯罪集团。”
While the 2004 report of the national 9/11 Commission and subsequent reviews called for major changes to the FBI, the report released Wednesday was much less critical. Rather than a rebuke, it amounts to a status-check on the FBI transformation that began in 2001.
全国性的“9·11委员会”(9/11 Commission)于2004年公布的报告及后来的一些评估均呼吁对FBI进行重大改革。相比之下，周三的报告远没有那么严厉。它并未对FBI发出斥责之声，而是相当于对从2001年开始的FBI改革进行了一次状态评估。
Today's bureau bears little resemblance to that organization, and some of the areas cited for improvement are markedly better than they were years ago. For instance, the report was much less critical about the FBI's foreign language ability than previous reports were.
如今的FBI已与当初不可同日而语。报告中提到的一些需要改善的方面也明显优于几年前。例如，与之前的多份报告相比，这份报告对FBI外语能力的批评淡化了不少。
Many of the report's recommendations are similar to issues the FBI's director, James B. Comey, has raised since he took over the bureau in September 2013.
其中给出的许多建议，与FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)在2013年9月接掌该机构以来提出的问题大同小异。
Comey has said that one of his biggest priorities is continuing the FBI's transformation from a law enforcement agency to an intelligence operation. Last year, he created a new high-level executive position to oversee a division meant to expand the use of intelligence across all investigations.
科米表示，自己的一个首要任务，就是继续推进FBI从执法机构向情报机构的转型。去年，他设立了一个新的高级管理职位，专门负责一个旨在在所有调查中扩展情报使用的部门。
“I think this is a moment of pride for the FBI,” Comey said at a news conference in Washington. “An outside group of some of our nation's most important leaders and thinkers has stared hard at us and said, `You have done a great job at transforming yourself.' They've also said what I've said around the country: `It's not good enough.' ”
“我认为对FBI来说，这是一个值得骄傲的时刻，”科米在华盛顿举行的新闻发布会上说。“一个由我们国家一些重要领袖和智囊组成的外部团体，对我们进行了严格的审视，然后说，‘你们的自我转型做得不错。’他们也提到了我在全国各地都说过的那句话：‘还不够出色。’”
He added: “There are a lot of ways you can be even better and becoming this national security and law enforcement organization that uses, collects and shares intelligence information in everything we do.”
他接下来表示：“还有许多办法可以让我们做得更好，让我们成为一个能够在所有工作中利用、搜集和分享情报信息的国家安全执法机构。”
The review commission was created by Congress in 2014 to assess the bureau's progress since the attacks. In particular, the panel examined how the FBI had put into effect the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.
该评估委员会由国会在2014年成立，旨在评价自9·11袭击以来FBI取得的进步。特别是，该委员会审核了FBI对“9·11委员会”提出的建议的实施情况。
“Many of the findings and recommendations in this report will not be new to the FBI,” the latest report said. “The bureau is already taking steps to address them. In 2015, however, the FBI faces an increasingly complicated and dangerous global threat environment that will demand an accelerated commitment to reform. Everything is moving faster.”
“对FBI来说，这份报告中的很多调查结果和建议都不会是第一次听说，”文中写道。“该局已经在针对它们采取措施。不过，2015年，FBI面临着日益复杂和危险的全球性威胁环境，对它提出了加快改革承诺的要求。一切都在更迅速地发生变化。”
The principal authors of the report were Bruce Hoffman, a professor of security studies at Georgetown University; Edwin Meese III, the former attorney general; and Timothy J. Roemer, a former House member from Indiana and former ambassador to India.
这份报告的主笔是乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的安全研究教授布鲁斯·霍夫曼(Bruce Hoffman)、前司法部长埃德温·米斯三世(Edwin Meese III)，以及曾任驻印度大使的印第安纳州前众议员蒂莫西·J·勒默尔(Timothy J. Roemer)。
The report said that to improve its intelligence gathering and analysis, the FBI needed a five year “top-down strategic plan.”
报告称，为了改善情报搜集和分析能力，FBI需要一个“自上而下的”五年“战略规划”。
It did not put all of the blame on the FBI, though, saying that budget cuts had “severely hindered the FBI's intelligence and national security programs.”
不过，报告并未将责任完全归到FBI身上。文中称，预算削减“严重阻碍了FBI的情报和国家安全项目”。
The FBI has enough linguists in its large offices, but they are in “short supply” throughout the rest of the country, the report said. Often, linguists use a virtual system to communicate remotely with agents and analysts working on cases.
报告中写道，FBI在其规模较大的办公驻地有足够的语言专家，但在国内的其他地方，他们“满足不了需求”。通常，语言专家会用一个虚拟系统与办案的探员和分析师远程沟通。
“Hiring additional linguists and integrating them should be a high priority,” the report said.
“增招语言专家并让他们融入FBI应是当务之急，”报告称。
The panel was particularly critical of how the FBI treats its analysts. It said that “despite its stated intentions to address concerns from its analysts” the bureau does not regard them as a “professional workforce” that needs to be continually trained and educated.
该委员会颇为严厉地批评了FBI对待其分析师的方式，称“尽管宣称有意回应分析师的担忧”，但FBI并未将他们当作需要持续接受训练和教育的“专业劳动力”。
Comey has said that raising the profile of analysts is one of his chief priorities.
科米已表示，提高分析师的地位是他的首要工作之一。
The FBI is far better at sharing information throughout the government than it was before the Sept. 11 attacks, the report said. But it needs to improve how it communicates with local law enforcement authorities and the private sector.
报告指出，和9·11袭击之前相比，FBI在与政府各部门分享信息方面有了巨大进步，但仍需改善与地方执法部门及私营领域的沟通方式。