$250 million.
2.5亿美元（约合15.30亿元人民币）。
That’s all Jeffrey P. Bezos paid on Monday for The Washington Post, which was once worth several billion dollars.
这是杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)周一为《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)出的价格，该报曾价值几十亿美元。
$70 million. That’s all John Henry paid on Friday for The Boston Globe, a paper The New York Times had acquired for $1.1 billion in 1993.
7000万美元。这是约翰·亨利(John Henry)周五买下《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)的价格，该报在1993年时曾被《纽约时报》(The New York Times)出价11亿美元收购。
Next to nothing. That’s what IBT Media paid to buy Newsweek over the weekend from IAC, which itself had paid only $1 plus $40 million in pension obligations to buy it two years ago.
几乎白捡。这是IBT媒体(IBT Media)上周末从IAC手中买下《新闻周刊》(Newsweek)时的价格，而IAC两年前是以1美元的价格外加要支付价值4000万美元的退休金计划买下该报的。
How do you explain the prices that these storied media institutions have been sold for over the last 72 hours?
你如何解释过去72小时内这些著名媒体机构被出售的价格？
The answer has little to do with dollars and cents, spreadsheets and valuation metrics. If it did, in truth, the buyers might have paid even less.
答案与美元、电子表格和估值指标没有关系。如果真有关系的话，那买家出的价可能会更低。
If it wasn’t clear that newspapers have become trophies for the wealthy with an interest in journalism or power — or a combination of both — it should be now.
报纸已成为那些对媒体或者权利，或者是两者，感兴趣的有钱人的奖杯，如果过去这件事还不是很清楚的话，那现在应该清楚了。
“These deals don’t make financial sense,” said Ken Doctor, an analyst at Outsell, a research and consulting firm for the publishing industry.
出版业研究和咨询公司Outsell公司分析师肯·多克托(Ken Doctor)说，“这些交易没有金钱上的意义。”
He suggested that Mr. Bezos’s valuation of The Washington Post was a generous gift. “It is a combination of good will and real estate,” he said, before adding, “I mean good will in the moral sense, not the financial sense.”
他认为贝佐斯对《华盛顿邮报》的出价是一个慷慨的馈赠。他说，“这既是出于好意又得到了房地产。”之后他又补充说，“我说的好意是指在道义上的好意，不是指金钱。”
Mr. Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon.com, is paying cash for The Washington Post out of his own personal wealth, currently estimated at more than $25 billion. The Post will cost him roughly 1 percent of what he owns in Amazon stock alone.
亚马逊电商公司(Amazon.com)首席执行官贝佐斯自掏腰包用现金支付购买《华盛顿邮报》的钱，他的资产现在估价超过250亿美元。购买《华盛顿邮报》的花费只占他在亚马逊公司持股的约1%。
Some billionaires like cars, yachts and private jets. Others like newspapers.
一些富豪喜欢汽车、游艇和私人飞机。而另一些人则偏爱报纸。
“Newspapers have gone from the public markets to the hands of a relatively few billionaires who have an appetite for social, civic and financial roles,” Mr. Doctor said.
多克托说，“报纸已经从公开市场转到那些为数不多的，对在社会、公民和金融中的角色感兴趣的富豪手中。”
Based on the math, it is hard to justify a $250 million valuation for The Washington Post. The company reported it lost nearly $50 million for the first half of the year on its newspaper operation that generated $138.4 million in revenue. Of the $50 million loss, nearly $40 million was a noncash pension expense. So you could argue that the company lost only $10 million on operations. But it lost $33 million in the first half of 2012, too, also including pension costs. Circulation fell about 7 percent in the first half of 2013.
根据数字计算，很难为《华盛顿邮报》以2.5亿美元卖出找到合理的理由。该公司报告称报纸的运营在上半年亏损了近5000万美元，收入只有1.384亿美元。在亏损的5000万美元中，有近4000万美元是非现金形式的退休金支出。所以你也可以说该公司的运营只亏损了1000万美元。但是它在2012年上半年也亏损了3300万美元，其中也包括退休金支出。该报在2013年上半年的发行量减少了约7%。
At the end of last year, the company valued its newspaper assets at $293.6 million, no doubt a generous figure.
去年年底时，该公司对其报纸资产的评估为2.936亿美元，这无疑是个夸大的数字。
For the Washington Post Company, which will remain publicly traded and renamed, probably to reflect its focus on its education business, Kaplan, and its television stations, the sale of the newspaper represents a very small part of its business. The Washington Post Company’s market value is $4.2 billion.
《华盛顿邮报》将依然公开在市场上交易，还将会被易名，新名字可能要反映出它将重点放在教育公司Kaplan及其电视台上，对该报来说出售报纸只是其很小的一部分业务。《华盛顿邮报》公司的市值为42亿美元。
But the newspaper, which has been owned by four generations of the Graham family since 1933, was not just a business.
但是这份从1933年开始就由格雷厄姆(Graham)家族掌管历经4代人之手的报纸，并不仅仅是笔生意。
Underscoring the size of the newspaper to the company, Katharine Weymouth, publisher of the newspaper, justified the sale by saying this in an interview with The Washington Post: “If journalism is the mission, given the pressures to cut costs and make profits, maybe (a publicly traded company) is not the best place for The Post.”
该报的发行人凯瑟琳·韦茅斯(Katharine Weymouth)强调了该报在整个公司的规模，在接受《华盛顿邮报》的采访中为这次出售辩护称，“如果新闻事业是使命的话，在削减开支和盈利的压力下，或许（作为一个上市公司）并不适合《华盛顿邮报》。”
By taking the newspaper private, Mr. Bezos can afford to be a patient owner. Profit and loss are probably the least of his concerns. A running joke on Monday was this from Ben Popper, the editor at the Web site the Verge, on Twitter: “Jeff Bezos has reputation for building great companies with little to no profit, perfect guy to own a newspaper.”
贝佐斯私人买下这一报纸，他能够成为一个有耐心的主人。而利润和亏损可能也不是他担心的事。The Verge网站编辑本·波珀(Ben Popper)周一在Twitter上开玩笑称，“杰夫·贝佐斯以成立赚钱少或者是不赚钱的伟大公司而著名，他是拥有一家报纸的最佳人选。”
While Mr. Bezos may not be buying the paper for immediate profits, it may not be entirely altruistic either. His parents, Jackie and Mike Bezos, run the Bezos Family Foundation, which is not expected to be involved in the business.
贝佐斯可能并非是因为眼前利益才买下该报，但这也不可能是完全为他人做贡献的事。贝佐斯的父母杰基(Jackie)和迈克·贝佐斯(Mike Bezos)经营着贝佐斯家族基金会(Bezos Family Foundation)，而人们认为基金会不会卷入这笔生意。
As part of the deal, Mr. Bezos is assuming the pension obligations of the current employees of the newspaper. Compared with the deal John Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox, struck for The Boston Globe on Friday, Mr. Bezos looks like a lavish benefactor. Mr. Henry paid $70 million, but The Boston Globe has approximately $110 million in pension obligations, which The New York Times Company is keeping on its books.
作为交易的一部分，贝佐斯要承担该报现有员工的退休金计划的支付责任。和波士顿红袜队(Boston Red Sox)主人约翰·亨利在周五买下《波士顿环球报》相比，贝佐斯似乎是个更大方的赞助者。亨利支付了7000万美元，但《波士顿环球报》的退休金计划的负担约为1.1亿美元，这笔钱现在还由《纽约时报》支付。
One billionaire who has been bullish on newspapers, not just as a benefactor, but as a business, is Warren Buffett. His company, Berkshire Hathaway, has acquired a series of newspapers, including The Omaha World-Herald, where he lives and grew up, and more from Media General.
对报纸一直充满信心的一个富豪是沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)，他不是作为一个赞助者，而是把这个当成了生意。他的公司伯克希尔·哈撒韦 (Berkshire Hathaway)已经收购了一系列报纸，其中包括奥马哈的《奥马哈世界先驱报》(Omaha World-Herald)，以及Media General旗下的更多报纸。巴菲特从小在奥马哈长大，现在还居住在那里。
In my conversations with him over the last year, he has stressed that he likes small, community newspapers because there is a built-in audience that can’t get the news elsewhere. But he has expressed doubts about regional newspapers, like The Los Angeles Times. Berkshire is a major shareholder of the Washington Post Company and Mr. Buffett was on the board for many years, until 2011.
去年在我与他交谈时，他强调自己喜欢小型社区报纸，因为其固有的读者不可能会从别处得到这些新闻。但是他也对像《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)这样的地区性报纸表示出怀疑。伯克希尔是《华盛顿邮报》公司的一个主要股东，而巴菲特在2011年之前的很多年里都是这个董事会的成员。
At Berkshire’s annual meeting, Mr. Buffett said he expected his newspapers to make a profit, but “it’s not going to move the needle at Berkshire.”
在伯克希尔年度会议上，巴菲特说他期望自己的报纸能赚钱，但是“这对伯克希尔公司来说作用不大。”
On Monday night, just hours after The Post announced its sale to Mr. Bezos, James Fallows, a former editor of U.S. News & World Report who writes for The Atlantic, said the deal put him in a state of shock.
周一晚上，在《华盛顿邮报》宣布要出售给贝佐斯几小时之后，《美国新闻与世界报道》（U.S. News & World Report）前编辑，为《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)撰稿的詹姆斯·法洛斯(James Fallows)说这次交易让他十分震惊。
“Let us hope,” he wrote, “that this is what the sale signifies: The beginning of a phase in which this Gilded Age’s major beneficiaries reinvest in the infrastructure of our public intelligence.”
他写到，“让我们希望这次出售表明的是：一个新时期的到来，那些这个镀金时代的主要受益人要再次对公众信息的基础设施进行投资。”