BERLIN — New details about the monitoring of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s cellphone by the National Security Agency further stoked the German government’s anger on Sunday and raised two questions: Why did the United States target her as early as 2002, and why did it take five years for the Obama administration to put a halt to the surveillance?
柏林——周日，美国国家安全局(NSA)监听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)手机的新细节曝光，进一步激起了德国政府的愤怒，并且提出了两个问题：为什么早在2002年，美国就把她作为了监控目标？为什么奥巴马上台五年之后才终止对她的监听？
The latest round of recriminations came after Der Spiegel, the German newsmagazine, published details from what it described as an entry from an N.S.A. database, apparently from the trove of documents downloaded by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor who is now in temporary asylum in Moscow.
对监听活动的最新一轮指责，发生在德国新闻杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)详细报道“NSA数据库中的一个条目”之后，这些信息应该是来自于前NSA雇员、现在获得莫斯科临时庇护的爱德华·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)下载的大量资料。
The database entry, according to Der Spiegel and outside experts, seemed to indicate that the request to monitor her cellphone began in 2002. But the document refers to her as “chancellor,” a position she has held only since late 2005. That seems to suggest the database entry had been updated.
《明镜》周刊和外界专家认为，这个条目似乎显示，监听默克尔的手机的要求最初是在2002年提出的。这份资料指她为“总理”，但默克尔到2005年底才就任德国总理。这似乎暗示该条目获得过更新。
The authenticity of the document could not be independently confirmed. But the German intelligence services believe it to be real, and in conversations between Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, and her German counterpart, Ms. Rice made no effort to question the evidence, even while declining to confirm that Ms. Merkel’s cellphone was ever monitored, according to both American and German officials.
这份资料的真实性无法获得独立证实。但德国情报部门认为它是真实的，而且，美国和德国的官员表示，美国安全顾问苏珊·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)与德国同行交谈时，虽然拒绝证实默克尔的手机曾经遭到监听，但却没有对证据提出任何质疑。
Der Spiegel also reported that the monitoring operation was run from the United States Embassy in the heart of Berlin, right by the Brandenburg Gate where President Obama spoke during a visit here last June. He also spoke about a mile from the gate during a now-famous campaign appearance in 2008. On his latest trip, with the Snowden documents already leaking out, he promised a full review of American spying on its allies.
《明镜》周刊还表示，有人从位于柏林中心地带的美国大使馆展开监听活动。奥巴马今年6月访问德国期间，还在使馆旁的勃兰登堡门发表了演讲。2008年时，他也在勃兰登堡门附近大约1英里（约1.6公里）的地方做过演讲，那次竞选宣传活动现已载入史册。奥巴马最近一次访问德国时，斯诺登文件已经泄露，他承诺会对美国监视盟友的活动进行全面审查。
The administration has seemed uncertain about how to handle the reports concerning Ms. Merkel, who has enjoyed a close rapport with Mr. Obama and has provided critical intelligence on Al Qaeda and on Iran’s nuclear program. Last week the White House stuck to carefully scripted talking points, saying Ms. Merkel was not currently being monitored and would not be in the future, but refused to say anything about the past.
美国政府似乎不确定该如何应对默克尔遭监听的报道，默克尔与奥巴马的关系融洽而密切，并且在基地组织和伊朗核计划方面提供过重要情报。上周，白宫发表了精心准备的讲话，说默克尔目前没有、将来也不会遭到监听，但拒绝透露以前是否监听过她。
That changed on Sunday, when the N.S.A. issued a statement to deny another German news media report, published in Bild am Sonntag, that said Mr. Obama had been briefed on the surveillance of Ms. Merkel in 2010 by Gen. Keith Alexander, the head of the N.S.A. and of the United States Cyber Command. The report contradicted assurances given privately to the German authorities by Ms. Rice that Mr. Obama was unaware of any such operation.
这种情况在周日发生了变化，因为NSA当天发表声明，否认了另一家德国新闻媒体《星期日图片报》(Bild am Sonntag)的报道。该报道称，奥巴马在2010年就已经知道NSA在监听默克尔的手机，当时的NSA和美国网络战司令部(United States Cyber Command)的负责人是基思·亚历山大将军(Keith Alexander)，他向奥巴马汇报了这一情况。这与赖斯曾私下向德国当局保证，奥巴马对这种行动并不知情的说法相矛盾。
The N.S.A. statement said that “General Alexander did not discuss with President Obama in 2010 an alleged foreign intelligence operation involving German Chancellor Merkel, nor has he ever discussed alleged operations involving Chancellor Merkel. News reports claiming otherwise are not true.”
NSA在声明中说，“在2010年，亚历山大将军没有和奥巴马讨论过涉及德国总理默克尔的海外情报活动，他从来没有讨论过涉及默克尔的任何行动。新闻报道中的说法不是真的。”
The N.S.A. statement did not question the validity of the database entry indicating when surveillance began, back when Ms. Merkel was the leader of the Christian Democratic Party. Nor did it shed light on why Ms. Merkel, a rare, stalwart supporter in Europe of the Bush administration’s plans to invade Iraq, was chosen for surveillance.
NSA的声明，没有对这个条目显示的监听开始时间提出质疑，当时默克尔是基督教民主联盟的领袖。而且它也没有阐明，为什么会把默克尔选为监听对象，默克尔曾坚定地支持布什政府入侵伊拉克的计划，这在欧洲领导人中非常少见。
On Sunday evening a senior administration official said of the spying on allies that the White House believed that “it’s not that the N.S.A. or the intelligence community were going rogue or operating out of bounds.” But the official added that two reviews of N.S.A. practices ordered by Mr. Obama are “to ensure that the intelligence community is getting the appropriate guidance from policy makers.”
周日晚上，一位高级政府官员说，白宫认为监听盟友“并不代表NSA和美国情报界肆意妄为，逾矩行事”。但是这位官员表示，奥巴马两次要求审查NSA的行动，是“为了确保情报界从政策制定者那里获得恰当的指导”。
The Obama administration has said as little as possible about the reports of the operation against Ms. Merkel, seemingly in hopes it will blow over. But the recent disclosures appear to have raised many new questions, including several that White House officials, saying they could not discuss classified intelligence matters, have been trying to deflect.
对于监听默克尔手机的新闻报道，奥巴马政府给予了尽可能少的回应，似乎是在等着风头过去。但最近曝光的信息似乎引出了很多新问题，包括白宫官员一直试图回避的几个问题。这些官员说，他们不能谈论机密情报事宜。
First among them is why Mr. Obama, by White House and N.S.A. accounts, was not made aware of the surveillance of a close ally. American officials have said that while the president approves major operations for the intelligence agencies, he does not get involved in the selection of targets. “I think this just wasn’t on the White House radar,” said one administration official familiar with internal discussions of the subject.
第一个问题是，按照白宫和NSA的说法，奥巴马为什么会不知道NSA在监听亲密盟友。美国官员曾表示，情报机构的重大行动虽然要由总统批准，但总统并不参与监听目标的选择工作。“我觉得，那不属于白宫关心的范围。”一名熟悉相关内情的政府官员说。
In the United States, Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, offered one of the most vigorous defenses of American surveillance activities in Europe, saying that much of the anger and resentment they have engendered there flowed from a misunderstanding of their real sweep and intent.
对于美国在欧洲的情报活动，美国密歇根州共和党众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Roger)的辩护最为有力。他说，欧洲人对这些活动的真实范围和意图存在误解，这是他们感到愤怒和怨恨的一大原因。
Mr. Rogers insisted on the CNN program “State of the Union” that the N.S.A. surveillance program, particularly regarding France, but also Germany, had been badly misrepresented and that it was designed to protect them and other countries from the threat of terrorist attacks.
罗杰斯在CNN的《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目上指出，NSA的监听活动，特别是与法国有关的、但也涉及德国的监听活动，遭到了严重歪曲，这些活动的目的是为了保护它们以及其他国家免受恐怖袭击的威胁。
Reporters who had seen an N.S.A. slide concluded incorrectly that the agency had monitored 70 million French phone calls, he said, adding that reports of the monitoring of Ms. Merkel’s cellphone were also incomplete. He did not elaborate.
他说，一些记者在看过相关NSA资料后得出了不正确的结论，认为NAS监听了7000万法国人的电话，此外，关于默克尔的手机遭到监听的报道也是不完整的。但他没有具体说明哪里不完整。
The extent of the German news media reporting reflected how deeply anger and a feeling of deception had penetrated the political establishment here, underscored by Ms. Merkel’s decision last Wednesday to place an indignant call to Mr. Obama. She has since said that trust must be restored — explicitly noting that this means that it is, for now, broken — and that words will not be enough.
德国新闻媒体报道此事的力度，不仅体现了该国对此事的巨大愤怒，也反应了受欺骗的感觉已经渗透到了德国政界。例如，默克尔上周三已经愤怒地为此事致电奥巴马。此后，她说两国必须修复信任关系——明确表示这种信任已经遭到破坏——而仅靠言语是不够的。
Ms. Merkel has come under fire at home for failing to act vigorously when Der Spiegel first reported massive surveillance of German data in June. At the time of Mr. Obama’s visit, she concurred with him that the intelligence operations had prevented terrorist acts in Germany. Senior officials of her government later declared the affair over after visiting Washington in August and gaining what they said were repeated assurances that no German laws had been broken.
《明镜》周刊今年6月首次报道德国数据遭到大规模监控时，默克尔由于没有积极采取行动，在国内遭到了批评。奥巴马访问该国时表示，相关情报活动帮助阻止了在德国的恐怖行动，而默克尔对此表示同意。默克尔政府的高级官员8月访问过华盛顿，并得到了美国没有触犯德国法律的“充分保证”，此后，他们宣布这件事告一段落。
The Germans and the French have said they will send senior intelligence officials to Washington this week to work on a “no-spy” accord — or another accord that regulates spying between close allies.
德国和法国已表示，他们本周将派高级情报官员前往华盛顿，磋商一项“不监听”协议，或者是规范亲密盟友之间的间谍行动的其他协议。