SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has detained a U.S. citizen, the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang and a university chancellor said on Sunday, raising the number of Americans thought to be held by the secretive nation to three.
韩国首尔——周日，瑞典驻平壤大使馆和一名大学校长表示，朝鲜扣留了一位美国公民。至此，这个神秘的国家羁押的美国人应该增加到了三人。
The arrest, if confirmed, would further complicate Washington’s relations with the country at a particularly tense moment.
这次逮捕如果确认属实，华盛顿与平壤之间已经很紧张的关系就会进一步复杂化。
The man, Tony Kim, who also goes by his Korean name, Kim Sang-duk, was detained on Saturday, Park Chan-mo, the chancellor of Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, told The Associated Press.
此人名叫托尼·金(Tony Kim)，韩文名字金盛德（Kim Sang-duk，音）。平壤科技大学校长朴赞谟(Chan-Mo Park)告诉美联社，他是在上周六遭到拘留的。
Park said Kim had taught accounting at the university for about a month and had taught at Yanbian University of Science and Technology in China before coming to Pyongyang. He said Kim had been detained by officials at Sunan International Airport in Pyongyang as he was trying to leave North Korea.
朴赞谟说金盛德在该大学教了一个月的会计学，之前他曾在中国延边科技大学教书。他说，金盛德在试图离开朝鲜时，在平壤顺安国际机场被抓。
South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency, citing unnamed sources, earlier said that a Korean-American man identified only by his last name, Kim, had been arrested at the airport.
韩国通讯社援引来源不明的消息说，一名姓金的韩裔美国人在该机场被逮捕。
It said the man, who is in his late 50s and is a former professor at Yanbian University, has been involved in aid and relief programs to North Korea.
据说此人接近60岁，曾经在延边大学当教授，参加了一些援助朝鲜的项目。
The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang, the capital, said it was aware that the North had recently detained a Korean-American citizen, The Associated Press reported. The United States does not have formal diplomatic ties with North Korea, and the embassy looks after consular affairs in the North on behalf of Washington.
美联社报道说，瑞典驻平壤大使馆表示，朝鲜近日又拘押一位美籍韩裔公民。美国与朝鲜之间没有官方外交往来，由瑞典大使馆代表华盛顿处理领事事务。
The South Korean government, including its Unification Ministry and National Intelligence Service, said it could not confirm the report.
韩国政府，包括其统一部和国家情报局在内，都表示无法确认这一报道。
Relations with Washington have reached a pitch recently, as North Korea has tested missiles and the United States has threatened to send warships to the region.
近日来，随着朝鲜进行导弹测试，华盛顿威胁要派遣军舰到该地区，两国之间的关系已经极为紧张。
North Korea said Sunday it was ready to sink a U.S. aircraft carrier to demonstrate its military might, as two Japanese navy ships joined a U.S. carrier group for exercises in the western Pacific, Reuters reported.
据路透社报道，朝鲜周日表示做好了击沉美国航空母舰，证明自己军事实力的准备。日本的两艘海军舰艇正和美国的一个航空母舰战斗群在西太平洋进行训练。
“Our revolutionary forces are combat-ready to sink a U.S. nuclear-powered aircraft carrier with a single strike,” Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, said in a commentary.
“我们的革命军队做好了准备，要一举击沉美国的核动力航空母舰，”朝鲜执政党劳动党的党报《劳动新闻》评论说。