Microsoft has collaborated with the National Security Agency more extensively than it previously acknowledged, providing the spy agency with up-to-date access to its customer data whenever the company changes its encryption and related software technology, according to a new report based on disclosures by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden.
以前美国国家安全局(National Security Agency，简称NSA)合同商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的材料为依据的一篇新报道称，微软(Microsoft)与NSA合作的范围比微软此前承认的广泛得多。每次修改加密技术及相关软件技术的时候，微软都会及时给与NSA权限，使其能访问其最新用户数据。
Quoting classified internal N.S.A. newsletters obtained from Mr. Snowden, The Guardian newspaper reported that Microsoft had helped the security agency find ways to circumvent its encryption on its Outlook.com portal’s encrypted Web chat function, and that the agency was given what The Guardian described as “pre-encryption stage” access to e-mail on Outlook, including Hotmail e-mail.
《卫报》(Guardian)的报道引用了从斯诺登手中拿到的NSA内部机密文件，称微软帮助NSA找到了绕开其Outlook.com网站门户加密网络聊天功能所用加密技术的方法，而且给予了NSA《卫报》所说的“加密前”进入Outlook邮件的权限，包括Hotmail邮件。
The Guardian, which did not release the N.S.A. documents that it quoted, said that Microsoft had also provided the F.B.I. with access to its SkyDrive service, a cloud storage service with millions of users.
《卫报》并未公布其引用的NSA文件。该报称，微软还让联邦调查局(FBI)进入其SkyDrive服务。这种云储存服务拥有数以百万计的用户。
Microsoft, according to The Guardian, also worked with the F.B.I. to study how Outlook allowed users to create e-mail aliases, while Skype, now owned by Microsoft, worked with the government to help it collect both the video and audio of conversations. It also reported that information collected through the N.S.A. program code-named Prism was shared with both the F.B.I. and the C.I.A.
《卫报》称，微软还同FBI合作，研究Outlook如何允许用户建立电邮别名。此外，已经归属微软的Skype也同政府合作，帮助政府收集视频及声音对话资料。该报还报道称，NSA通过代号棱镜(Prism)的项目收集来的信息与联邦调查局及中央情报局(CIA)都进行了共享。
Microsoft said in a statement that it only provided access to its systems when required to do so by court orders.
微软在一份声明中称，只在收到法庭命令时，才会让有关方面进入其系统。
“We only ever comply with orders about specific accounts or identifiers, and we would not respond to the kind of blanket orders discussed in the press over the past few weeks,” the company said in its statement. “To be clear, Microsoft does not provide any government with blanket or direct access to SkyDrive, Outlook.com, Skype or any Microsoft product. Finally, when we upgrade or update products legal obligations may in some circumstances require that we maintain the ability to provide information in response to a law enforcement or national security request.”
公司在声明中称，“我们只遵从那些针对特定账户或标志物的命令，至于过去几周媒体所谈论的那种笼统命令，我们是不会接受的。微软可以很明白地说，微软不会让任何政府大范围或直接进入SkyDrive、Outlook.com、Skype或任何微软产品。最后，当我们升级或更新产品时，有些情况下，法律义务可能会要求我们保持应执法或国家安全要求提供信息的能力。”
The latest disclosure from documents leaked by Mr. Snowden underscores the increasingly close ties between the N.S.A. and the high-tech community. Microsoft, Facebook and other companies have already been forced to address questions about their cooperation with the agency following Mr. Snowden’s disclosure of the Prism surveillance program.
因斯诺登泄露文件而来的这次最新披露，突显了NSA与高科技公司之间日益紧密的联系。在斯诺登披露棱镜监视项目之后，微软、Facebook及其他一些公司已经被迫应对有关他们与NSA合作的质疑。
Many of the companies have repeatedly denied that they agree to blanket collection requests from the government, despite evidence that the government has for years collected huge amounts of phone and Internet data from American citizens. An N.S.A. Internet metadata collection program revealed by Mr. Snowden, for example, was halted in 2011 only after two members of the Senate Intelligence Committee began to question its value.
许多公司已经反复否认自己曾同意政府进行广泛的数据收集，尽管有证据表明，政府多年来已经收集了大量有关美国公民的电话及网络数据。例如，斯诺登披露的一项NSA网络大型数据收集计划停止于2011年，但这是因为参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)的两名成员对计划的价值提出了质疑。
Fearing a negative public response to their cooperation, some Silicon Valley companies are beginning to openly push back against the security agency. Yahoo, for example, is now asking the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the secret court that rules on data collection requests by the government, to allow it to make public the record of its 2008 challenge to the constitutionality of the law requiring it to provide its customer data to the agency.
由于担心这样的合作会招致负面公众回应，一些硅谷公司开始公开抵制安全机构。例如，雅虎(Yahoo)正在要求外国情报监视法庭（Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court，简称FISA）——这是负责裁决政府的数据收集请求的秘密法庭——允许它公开它2008年质询的记录，质询内容是要求它向情报机构提供用户数据的法律是否违宪。
A Yahoo spokeswoman said Thursday that the company was “seeking permission from the FISA court to unseal the arguments and orders from the 2008 case.”
一名雅虎女发言人周四称，该公司“正在寻求FISA法庭的许可，以便解封2008年案件的概要和命令”。
Yahoo said in a public filing with the FISA court this week that releasing documents about the 2008 case would allow it “ to demonstrate that it objected strenuously to the directives that are now the subject of debate, and objected at every stage of the proceeding, but that these objections were overruled and its request for a stay was denied.”
本周，雅虎在递交给FISA法院的一份公开文件中称，公开2008年案件的材料将使它“显示出它曾极力反对现在成为辩论主题的那些指令，在该程序的每一个阶段都进行了反对，但这些反对都被否决，它要求延期的请求也遭拒绝”。
Signs of a popular backlash against the security agency’s large-scale collection of the personal data of Americans have convinced a leading privacy advocate in Congress that the Obama administration may soon begin to back away from the most aggressive components of the agency’s domestic surveillance programs.
NSA大规模收集美国人个人数据将引发广泛强烈抵制的迹象，已经令国会一名主要的隐私权倡导人士相信，奥巴马政府可能会迅速退却，弃用该机构国内监视项目中最激进的那些手段。
The advocate, Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat and a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said in an interview Thursday that he believed that the security agency might soon abandon the bulk collection of the telephone calling data of millions of Americans.
这名倡导人士是俄勒冈州民主党参议员、参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)成员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)。他在周四接受采访时表示，他相信，NSA或许会很快放弃对于数百万美国人电话元数据的大量收集。
The current controversy over the agency’s surveillance policies was first set off after Mr. Snowden leaked a secret FISA court order telling Verizon to turn over calling data from all of its customers. Mr. Wyden now believes that the White House is beginning to recognize that the program raises so many privacy concerns that it is willing to drop it.
当前对于该机构监视政策的异议，首次爆发是在斯诺登泄露了一份FISA法庭命令之后，该命令要求威瑞森通讯公司(Verizon)上交其所有客户的通话元数据。怀登现在相信，白宫已经开始意识到这一项目引起了太多的隐私权担忧，因此愿意弃用此项目。
“I have a feeling that the administration is getting concerned about the bulk phone records collection, and that they are thinking about whether to move administratively to stop it,” he said. He added he believed that the continuing controversy prompted by Mr. Snowden had changed the political calculus in Congress over the balance between security and civil liberties, which has been heavily weighted toward security since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
他说，“我有一种感觉，政府已经开始担忧这种大规模的电话记录收集活动，并且正在考虑，是否应当从行政层面制止这种行为。”他补充说，他相信，斯诺登推动的持续争议已经改变了国会调节安全和公民权利天平的政治算盘，自9·11恐怖袭击以来，这一天平一直严重地倾向于安全。
“I think we are making a comeback,” Mr. Wyden said, referring to privacy and civil liberties advocates.
“我觉得，该我们卷土重来了，”怀登说，他指的是隐私权和公民权利倡导人士。