PYONGYANG, North Korea — Towering apartment blocks line the gleaming, six-lane avenue known as Future Scientists Street, their boldly colored facades leaping from the drab hues that dominate the rest of Pyongyang’s skyline.
朝鲜平壤——这是一条熠熠生辉的六车道大街，名为“未来科学家大道”(Future Scientists Street)，两侧伫立着高大的公寓楼，其外立面色彩鲜艳，比起主宰平壤别处天际线的乏味色调，显得格外出挑。
At street level, there are electronics stores, a movie theater and a new pizzeria, where visitors are welcomed by young waitresses in bright red uniforms.
街上有若干家电器商店和一家电影院，还新开了一家披萨店，身穿亮红色制服的女服务员跟游客打着招呼。
A pizza costs about $8, and a pasta entree less than half that. There is a bright aquarium near the entrance, but it is devoid of life — much like the restaurant, which was eerily quiet the night I visited.
一份披萨要价8美元（约合人民币54元）左右，一份意面主菜不到4美元。门厅处有一个明亮的水族箱，不过里面没有生命的迹象——就像这家店本身一样，我那天晚上走进去时，店内安静得出奇。
The restaurant is Italy Pizza, hailed by local guides as the hottest new dining spot in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. It serves up a taste of cosmopolitan savvy for the city’s elite — and proof to foreign visitors that all is well in the nation despite punishing economic sanctions, international isolation and intermittent reports of deprivation and famine.
这家店名叫“意大利披萨”(Italy Pizza)，被当地导游誉为平壤最火爆的新餐馆。它可以让前来光顾的城中精英品尝到一种国际都市的味道——还可以向外国游客证明：尽管遭受了严重的经济制裁和国际社会的孤立，还时不时地因为物质匮乏和饥荒而被媒体报道，但这个国家一切安好。
There is no doubt North Korea is racked with poverty. Its economy barely functions, and per capita gross domestic product is estimated as low as $1,800 per year. But for the privileged few in this city of three million — state officials and members of a nascent merchant class — options for entertainment have expanded since Kim Jong-un took power five years ago.
毫无疑问，朝鲜正与贫困作斗争。它的经济体系基本停止了运转，年人均GDP据估计仅为1800美元。但在这座人口为300万的城市里，对享有特权的少数人——政府官员和新兴的商人阶层的成员——来说，自从金正恩(Kim Jong-un)于五年前掌权以来，娱乐方面的选择越来越多了。
There are cafes and bars, tennis courts and gyms. There is a bowling alley and a fancy supermarket, a new dolphinarium and a water park. A half-hour’s drive from downtown Pyongyang, the Mirim Riding Club boasts 120 horses — including Orlov Trotters sent as a gift by Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin — and charges $8 to ride them for an hour outdoors, $10 indoors.
这里有咖啡馆和酒吧，网球场和健身房。还有一个保龄球馆和一家高档超市，以及一个新开的海豚馆和一个水上公园。距离市中心一个半小时车程的美林马术俱乐部(Mirim Riding Club)里有120匹马——其中包括被俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)当作礼物送来的奥尔洛夫快步马(Orlov trotter)——在室外骑一小时收费8美元，室内则为10美元。
(Foreign visitors are generally first taken to the Revolutionary Site Education Room, a gallery that includes a giant photograph of Mr. Kim at age 4, in a pink cap and red mittens, playing with a horse. “Our Grand Marshal Kim Jong-un always possessed a special gift with animals,” a guide told me.)
（通常情况下，外国游客首先会被带到革命史迹教育室[Revolutionary Site Education Room]，那个陈列室里有一张金正恩四岁时的巨幅照片，头戴粉色帽子、手戴红色手套的他正和一匹马玩耍。“我们的伟大统帅金正恩一直都有和动物打交道的特殊天分，”一名导游告诉我。）
The North Korean government strictly controls what foreigners can see, so it is difficult to know to what extent Pyongyang’s new urban amenities are real or how many people can enjoy them. But during a recent weeklong visit to attend a biennial film festival staged by the government, I was allowed to visit a few of the new venues, in the company of two official minders.
朝鲜政府对外国人可以看见什么有着严格的控制，因此很难了解平壤崭新的城市设施在多大程度上是真实的，也难以知道有多少人可以使用这些设施。不过，我最近借参加两年一度的官方电影节之机在朝鲜逗留了一周，其间曾被允许在两名政府陪同人员的陪伴下参观几处新场所。
At the Rungna Dolphinarium, part of a larger amusement park on an island in the Taedong River, I joined an audience of more than 1,400 people who cheered as they watched spotted dolphins swim on their backs and jump through hoops.
凌塬海豚馆(Rungna Dolphinarium)坐落在大同江中一座小岛上，是一个大型游乐场的一部分。在那里，我和超过1400名观众一起，一边观看点斑原海豚仰泳、跳圈，一边欢呼。
After the show, I tried to take a photograph of the performance area, but a guide assigned to me by the dolphinarium grabbed the camera and deleted the picture. “You can see the workers cleaning the stage, and they are not dressed smartly enough,” she said before walking off.
表演结束后，我试图给表演场地拍一张照片，但馆方派给我的一个导游把相机拿了过去，删掉了照片。“你看工人们正在打扫台子，他们的穿着不够得体，”她在走开前说道。
Later, I was taken to the Munsu Water Park, where families basked in sunny weather and children frolicked in pools that generate artificial waves. The staff members, dressed in svelte aquamarine uniforms, said about 5,000 people come every day, paying a 25-cent entrance fee and about $2.50 for every hour they spend in the facility’s 26 pools.
接着，我被带到了文殊水上乐园(Munsu Water Park)。当天天气晴朗，有人和家人一起晒太阳，还有一些孩子在人工造浪池里嬉戏。身穿线条清晰的宝蓝色制服的工作人员说，每天约有5000人前来游玩，买一张门票需要花25美分，泳池总共有26个，在泳池里每待一个小时需另付约2.5美元。
One of the park’s hosts eagerly noted that Mr. Kim had inspected it while it was under construction to offer on-the-spot guidance. “The grand marshal insisted the park be managed for the people’s convenience,” she said with a smile.
园中的一名接待员热切地指出，金正恩曾在水上乐园施工期间前来视察并进行现场指导。“伟大统帅强调，乐园的管理应以方便人民群众为准则，”她微笑着说道。
It is a sore point for the North that its economy is so far behind that of South Korea, its neighbor and archenemy, and the government has tried to keep its chin up despite crippling sanctions imposed over its human rights abuses and nuclear weapons program.
朝鲜的经济发展水平远远落后于它的邻国兼头号大敌韩国，这是它的一大痛处。而朝鲜政府一直在竭力振作精神，尽管这个国家因为侵犯人权和发展核武器而遭受了非常严厉的制裁。
Last week, the United Nations Security Council called on members to “redouble their sanction efforts” after North Korea defied warnings in September and conducted another nuclear test, its fifth and most powerful to date. On Monday, an official in Pyongyang dismissed the threat, saying “it is tml">a complete miscalculation to think that any sanctions or pressure can have any effect on us.”
联合国安理会于上周号召其成员国“加倍制裁”朝鲜，因为它在今年9月罔顾外界的警告，再次进行了核试验——这是它的第五次核试验，也是迄今为止最大的一次。周一，平壤方面的一名官员对这种威胁嗤之以鼻，他说，“如果认为任何制裁或者压力会对我们有任何影响，便是完完全全地打错了算盘。”
North Korea tentatively began introducing market forces into its economy more than a decade ago, but experts say the push appears to have accelerated since Mr. Kim, believed to be 32, succeeded his father in 2011.
朝鲜从十多年前便开始试探性地向经济领域引入更多的市场力量，但专家称，自从金正恩上台以后，对这种势头的推动似乎有所加快。金正恩据信现年32岁，于2011年子承父位。
For the youngest scion of the Kim dynasty, introducing new amenities for the public is a way of highlighting the country’s development under his rule and distinguishing himself from his predecessors, while also catering to an elite that is a key constituency for the regime.
对金氏王朝这位最年轻的后裔来说，通过为公众提供新设施，可以突显这个国家在他治下的发展成就，帮助他树立不同于前两任领导人的形象，同时迎合作为该国政权关键组成部分的精英阶层的喜好。
“Pyongyang’s leisure infrastructures are populated by a mélange of the traditional higher echelons of party and military, along with newer entrepreneurial social sectors, not of course forgetting their offspring,” said Robert Winstanley-Chesters, who studies North Korean leisure spaces at Australian National University.
“平壤休闲基础设施的使用者，有些是一直都存在的党和军队里的高层，有些则是社会上新涌现出来的企业界人士，当然了，还有他们的子子孙孙，”澳大利亚国立大学(Australian National University)致力于研究朝鲜休闲空间的罗伯特·温斯坦利-切斯特(Robert Winstanley-Chesters)说。
Some observers estimate that as much as 15 percent of Pyongyang’s population are members of the privileged class described by Mr. Winstanley-Chesters.
据一些观察人士估计，在平壤，温斯坦利-切斯特所描绘的特权阶层的成员至多可以占其总人口的15%。
“The best way to make money is to work for a large state company and demonstrate your capability and worth,” said Andray Abrahamian of Choson Exchange, which conducts entrepreneurship workshops in North Korea. “Demonstrating you can run or help run a spinoff subsidiary on your own is even better.”
“最好的赚钱方式是为一家大型国有企业工作，并展现你的能力和价值，”来自朝鲜交流中心(Choson Exchange)——一家在朝鲜开展创业培训的机构——的安德雷·亚布拉哈米(Andray Abrahamian)说。“如果能展现出凭一己之力运营或者帮助运营一家分拆出去的子公司的能力，那就更好了。”
Such subsidiaries include real estate developments and projects in a limited number of special economic zones, as well as restaurants.
这类子公司包括少数几个经济特区内的房地产开发项目，还包括一些餐厅。
My group of visitors had invited our minders and translators for a meal at Italy Pizza, and I sat next to a young man who identified himself, in fluent English, as a lecturer at the Pyongyang University of Foreign Languages. He told me he had been intrigued by pizzas ever since seeing them in English-language movies as a student.
我所在的旅行团曾在意大利披萨餐厅请我们的陪同人员及翻译吃饭，我当时坐在一个英语流利、自称是平壤外国语大学(Pyongyang University of Foreign Languages)讲师的年轻人身边。他告诉我，自从上学时在英语电影里见过披萨以后，他一直对这种食物很好奇。
“Even better than I expected!” he exclaimed, beaming, after his first bite of a margherita slice.
“比我想象中还要好！”拿起一片玛格丽塔(margherita)披萨、咬下第一口之后，他兴高采烈地惊呼道。
As we dined, a karaoke machine projected a slide show on a big screen with just two images, the name of the ruling Workers’ Party and “1950-1953,” the years of the Korean War, both set against a background of the party seal. No one got up to sing.
我们用餐时。卡拉OK机在大大的屏幕上播放着一个只有两张图片的幻灯片，执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)的名字以及朝鲜战争的持续时间“1950-1953”，均以党章图案为背景。没有人过去唱歌。
“There is an increasing demand among residents of Pyongyang for a wider range of dining options,” said Calvin Chua, an architect based in Singapore who conducts design workshops in North Korea.
“平壤居民对于更多就餐选择的需求日益增长，”在朝鲜开展设计培训的新加坡建筑设计师卡尔文·蔡(Calvin Chua)说。
Recently built establishments aiming to meet that demand include a trendy hamburger joint near the Tower of Immortality, built to commemorate the country’s founder, Kim Il-sung; a few cafes with varying décor and coffee quality; and several bars, including the Taedonggang Beer Bar No. 3, on the eastern bank of the Taedong.
最近建成的一些场所便是以满足这一需求为目标，其中包括：一家新潮的汉堡店，就开在用以纪念这个国家的开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)的永生塔(Tower of Immortality)附近；几家咖啡馆，其装修各不相同，咖啡的质量也良莠不齐；还有几家酒吧，包括位于大同江东岸的大同江三号啤酒吧(Taedonggang Beer Bar No. 3)。
With dark wood finishing and a painting of Mount Paektu on its exposed brick walls, Taedonggang is a gaudy interpretation of a European pub. The bartender offered six varieties of local beer on tap but said he was out of a seventh — my guide’s favorite, which he said had a hint of coffee flavor. I ordered No. 3, a dark ale that went down smoothly with French fries.
深色木质饰面，以及裸砖墙上的一幅以白头山(Mount Paektu)为主题的画作，让大同江三号啤酒吧看起来像是对欧洲酒馆的一次廉价花哨的演绎。酒保提供六种散装的当地啤酒，但他说还有一种已经买完了——那是我的向导最喜欢的一种，据他说带着点儿咖啡味。我点了“大同江三号”，一种深色的浓啤酒，搭配炸薯条刚刚好。
When I visited the hamburger place on a weekend afternoon — the menu said it was owned by the Sogwang High-Tech Corporation but did not advertise a name for the restaurant — the only other patrons were young couples who looked like students.
一个周末下午，我去参观那个卖汉堡的餐厅——菜单上写着，它为西江高科技公司(Sogwang High-Tech Corporation)所有，但并没有介绍餐厅的名字——餐厅里仅有的其他顾客是一对对看上去像是学生的年轻伴侣。
“Kim Il-sung University is nearby, so this has become a popular dating spot,” my guide said. The couples, using their Arirang smartphones, made in North Korea and running a version of the Android operating system, snapped photos of their burgers before eating.
“金日成大学(Kim Il-sung University)就在附近，所以这里成了很受欢迎的约会地点，”我的向导说。这些情侣会使用朝鲜制造的阿里郎(Arirang)智能手机在用餐前给自己的汉堡拍照。其手机运行的是某个版本的安卓操作系统。
The centerpiece of the North’s efforts to impress outsiders is Future Scientists Street, where the showstopper is a curvaceous blue-and-white skyscraper, 53 floors high, topped with a golden orb.
在朝鲜为打动外来者所做的种种努力之中，未来科学家大道堪称王牌，其中最重要的景观是一栋蓝白相间，充满曲线美的53层摩天大厦，顶上装饰着一个金球。
The apartment towers here are said to house professors and employees of the Kim Chaek University of Technology, but few buildings seem occupied — and even fewer seemed to have electricity when I walked by one evening.
据说，这些公寓楼里住着金策工业综合大学(Kim Chaek University of Technology)的教授与员工，但是没有几栋楼看上去像是住了人——一天晚上，我走过这里，觉得有电力的建筑似乎更少。
In January, when temperatures in Pyongyang routinely drop below freezing, the apartments were reported to be without functioning heat or water.
在一月份，平壤的温度常常降至零度以下，当时有报道称这些公寓里没有有效的供暖和供水。
Asked why so many windows of the apartment blocks were dark while the building exteriors glittered from streetlights, my minder whispered, as if sharing a secret, that the residents were trying to conserve energy for the nation.
我问我的陪同者，为什么住宅区里有很多窗子都黑着，建筑外表却在街灯映照下熠熠生辉，她放低了声音，仿佛在分享一个秘密，说居民们都在努力为国家节约能源。
At the end of another day, as we returned to the hotel, she pointed out the window of our bus and said, “Look! It’s Future Scientists Street.” She noted how the street could be seen from afar because of its bright lights.
还有一天，行程结束后，我们返回酒店，她指向大巴窗外说，“看！那是未来科学家大道。”她还说，因为那条街上灯火辉煌，所以从很远的地方就能看到。
The bright lights definitely made the street stand out. But that was because it was surrounded by darkness.
明亮的灯光的确令那条街脱颖而出。但那是因为它被四周的黑暗所围绕。