VILLANOVA, Pa. — AMERICA’S favorite sex-and-relationships columnist, Dan Savage, has called for a boycott of Russian vodka to protest violent attacks on gays by nationalist thugs and antigay legislation backed by President Vladimir V. Putin. It’s an understandable response, but the prospects for the boycott’s succeeding are slim, and the potential for it to backfire on gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Russians is high.
宾夕法尼亚维拉诺瓦——美国最受欢迎的两性情感专栏作家丹·萨维奇(Dan Savage)号召抵制俄罗斯伏特加，以抗议俄罗斯民族主义暴徒对同性恋者的暴力袭击及总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)支持的反同性恋立法。这一反应可以理解，但抵制行动获得成功的前景渺茫，却很有可能殃及俄罗斯男女同性恋、双性恋和变性人士。
Polls estimate that two-thirds of Russians consider homosexuality unacceptable under any circumstance, similar to where American attitudes were three decades ago. In that conservative context, a perceived threat, even symbolic, from the liberal West would be a blessing for Mr. Putin, who can portray himself as the defender of the traditional Russian family, Orthodox Christian values and national pride all at once. And to the extent that Russia becomes more xenophobic and reactionary, its gay community will be seen as only more alien — the opposite of tolerance and integration.
民意调查显示，三分之二的俄罗斯人在任何情况下都不接受同性恋，这和美国人30年前的态度相似。在这样保守的环境中，任何被视为来自自由西方的威胁，即使仅是象征性的，都会被普京利用，以塑造其捍卫传统俄罗斯家庭、东正教价值观和国家尊严的形象。一旦俄罗斯变得更为排外和保守，其国内的同性恋团体会遭到更大的排斥——远离宽容与被接纳。
As a scholar of Russian politics, I arrive at this conclusion with ambivalence. Vodka and the Kremlin have indeed had a long history of codependency.
作为研究俄罗斯政治的学者，我怀着矛盾的心情得出以上结论。在过去很长一段时间里，伏特加和克里姆林宫确实相互依赖。
For centuries, the Russian state used vodka to oppress and exploit its people. Leaders from Ivan the Terrible to Peter the Great to Joseph Stalin forced even their closest colleagues to drink to stupefaction to keep them divided and dependent — just as the state pushed vodka on its people to keep them off balance and subservient — while making a killing off the liquor that was killing their people. From 1763, during the reign of Catherine the Great, through 1914, when Nicholas II instituted prohibition to aid mobilization for World War I, liquor-tax revenues made up some 25 percent to 40 percent of all state income, enough to support one of the world’s largest armies and the upkeep of the Romanovs’ opulent palaces. Even into the 1970s and 1980s, vodka revenues constituted a quarter of the Soviet Union’s revenue.
几个世纪以来，俄罗斯当权者一直利用伏特加来压迫和剥削人民。从伊凡雷帝(Ivan the Terrible)到彼得大帝(Peter the Great)再到约瑟夫·斯大林(Joseph Stalin)，历代领导人会逼迫哪怕最亲近的同僚喝酒喝到神志不清，让他们彼此之间产生隔阂，同时又嗜酒如命——这和当权者把伏特加强加于人民以保证他们的无力与顺从是一样的——一面利用烈酒的杀伤性，一面坐收渔利。自1763年凯瑟琳大帝(Catherine the Great)在位起，至1914尼古拉斯二世(Nicholas II)发布禁酒令来为第一次世界大战进行动员，酒税占国家财政收入的25%至40%，足以在支撑世界上最庞大的一支军队的同时，维持罗曼诺夫王朝(Romanovs)的华丽宫殿。甚至直到上世纪70、80年代，伏特加带来税收仍占苏联财政收入的1/4。
Dissenters everywhere have long recognized alcohol’s oppressive capacity. In 1845, Frederick Douglass argued that getting slaves drunk was “the most effective means in the hands of the slaveholder in keeping down the spirit of insurrection.”
持不同政见者们早就认识到了酒精的胁迫力。1845年，弗雷德里克·道格拉斯(Frederick Douglass)就指出，让奴隶喝到烂醉是“奴隶主消除暴动精神的最有效手段”。
A world away, in 1858-9, serfs from the Baltic to the Volga boycotted vodka plied by the state. As taverns emptied and distilleries closed, the government responded with brutality. “The teetotalers were flogged into drinking; some who doggedly held out had liquor poured into their mouths through funnels, and were afterward hauled off to prison as rebels,” an aghast British journalist wrote.
在1858–1859年间，一个和现在完全不同的时代，从波罗的海到伏尔加河地区的农奴抵制官方提供的伏特加。酒馆生意冷清，酒厂关门停业，政府以残暴手段回应。“禁酒主义者们若不喝酒就会受到鞭打；坚决不从者则要用漏斗强灌，之后作为造反者被投入监牢，”一位吃惊的英国记者这样记录到。
Writers like Dostoevsky and Turgenev used vodka to highlight the backwardness and moral bankruptcy of the autocratic order. Tolstoy formed a temperance society to promote Russians’ spiritual and material advancement against the power of the state and the church. (This sort of defiance got him excommunicated.) Likewise, Soviet dissidents from Andrei Sakharov to Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn were teetotalers.
如陀思妥耶夫斯基(Dostoevsky)和屠格涅夫(Turgenev)这样的作家把伏特加作为表现专制体制落后与道德败坏的证据。托尔斯泰(Tolstoy)无视政府和教会的权力，成立节制社团，推动俄罗斯的精神与物质进步。（如此忤逆的行为导致他被逐出教会。）同样，安德烈·萨哈罗夫(Andrei Sakharov)和亚历山大·索尔仁尼琴(Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn)等苏联异议人士都是禁酒主义者。
Why, then, should we not support Mr. Savage’s well-intended call for a boycott?
那么我们为什么不应支持萨维奇用心良苦的抵制号召呢？
First, quaffing Absolut, Belvedere or Ketel One instead of Stolichnaya is a symbolic action, like changing one’s profile picture on Facebook or sharing a YouTube video, that changes little for Russia’s gay men and lesbians.
第一，畅饮绝对伏特加（Absolut，产自瑞典——译注）、雪树伏特加（Belvedere，产自波兰——译注）或坎特一号伏特加（Ketel One，产自荷兰——译注）而不喝“黑标”伏特加(Stolichnaya)只具有象征性意义，好比更换了Facebook的头像照片或分享一段Youtube视频一样，对于俄罗斯的男女同性恋们帮助不大。
Second, a boycott lets Mr. Putin portray the American boogeyman as intent on violating Russian sovereignty. From the Jackson-Vanik Amendment in 1974, which sanctioned the Soviet Union for restricting Jewish emigration, to the Magnitsky Act last year, which punished Russian officials allegedly complicit in the death of a fraud investigator, the United States has a long history of ineffective meddling in Russian affairs. Most political scientists agree that sanctions rarely bring about desired results and can undermine the effectiveness and credibility of domestic opposition groups.
第二，抵制行为会让普京把美国人民描绘成企图侵犯俄罗斯主权的邪恶势力。从1974年通过的《杰克逊-瓦尼克修正案》(Jackson-Vanik Amendment)对前苏联限制犹太移民进行制裁，到去年的《马格尼茨基法案》(Magnitsky Act)对被控串谋杀害一名欺诈案调查人员的俄罗斯馆员进行惩罚，美国对俄罗斯事务进行干预的历史由来已久，但均徒劳无功。多数的政治学家认为制裁很少能达到预期效果，反而会破坏被制裁国国内反对力量的效力和可信度。
Third and most important, the Kremlin’s historic reliance on vodka revenues is largely over — making efforts to enforce the boycott ineffective and even cringeworthy. Many bars have stopped serving Smirnoff, which was produced in the United States, not Russia, as far back as the 1930s and is now made by a British conglomerate, Diageo.
第三，也是最重要的一点，克里姆林宫依靠伏特加来保证财政收入的历史基本结束了——这会让抵制行动的效果大打折扣，甚至让人感到尴尬。许多酒吧已经停止供应皇冠伏特加(Smirnoff)，可这个品牌的早在上世纪30年代开始就已经在美国生产，而不是俄罗斯，而且现在它归属于英国帝亚吉欧集团(Diageo)。
Stolichnaya has been the primary target — the Hotel Moskva on its label has been almost synonymous with Russia since 1972, when the brand became available in America thanks to a deal that sent Pepsi into the Soviet bloc. Unfortunately, the Stoli we drink is distilled in Latvia and owned by the SPI Group, based in Luxembourg, as opposed to the (cheaper, less venerated) Stoli consumed in Russia, made by a struggling state-owned company, FKP Soyuzplodoimport.
“黑标”伏特加一直是众矢之的——商标上的莫斯科大饭店从1972年起几乎就成了俄罗斯的代名词。当时苏联允许引进百事可乐，“黑标”作为交换条件得以进入美国市场。不幸的是，我们喝到的“黑标”产自拉脱维亚的酒厂，而且品牌属于总部在卢森堡的SPI集团(SPI Group)。而俄罗斯国内消费的“黑标”（更为廉价，比较低劣）则属于国营进口水果联盟公司(FKP Soyuzplodoimport)，一家处境堪忧的国有公司。
SPI’s chief executive, Val Mendeleev, has bent over backward to condemn the antigay legislation. Mr. Savage notes that SPI is owned by Yuri Scheffler, a tycoon. But he and Mr. Mendeleev fled Russia years ago, as did many oligarchs who opposed Mr. Putin, to avoid exile or imprisonment.
SPI首席执行官瓦尔·门捷列夫(Val Mendeleev)对反同性恋立法已进行了强烈谴责。萨维奇注意到SPI的老板是商业巨头尤里·谢夫勒(Yuri Scheffler)，但他和门捷列夫以及许多反对普京的寡头一样，多年前就逃离了俄罗斯，以免流放或牢狱之苦。
The Kremlin is no friend to gays, but a symbolic and ineffective boycott won’t help. A better approach is for gay activists in Russia and their allies abroad to link the (otherwise unpopular) cause of gay equality to problems that have a broader resonance in Russia, like endemic corruption and the weak rule of law. Framing the struggle for equality in these terms will likely win greater sympathy than railing against the bottle.
克里姆林宫不支持同性恋，但一个只具有象征意义但毫无实际效果的抵制行动无济于事。更好的方法应该是帮助俄罗斯的同性恋活动人士和国外的盟友们（一般情况下在各自国家都不太受欢迎），让他们把为同性恋争取平等的事业和俄罗斯国内能引起更广泛影响的问题联系起来，比如腐败蔓延、法治薄弱等。以这样的说法来争取平等，比单纯跟酒瓶子过不去可能会赢得更多的同情。