RIGA, Latvia — When a number of prominent Americans, outraged by what they saw as a rising tide of state-sponsored homophobia in Russia, called for a boycott of Stolichnaya vodka this summer, they had no more eager ally against Moscow than Kaspars Zalitis, a gay rights advocate here in Latvia, a Baltic nation with a long and painful experience with Russia’s oppression of minorities.
拉脱维亚里加——一些美国名人对俄罗斯反同性恋浪潮的日益高涨而愤怒，在他们看来这种反对情绪得到国家的支持，于是他们在今年夏天呼吁抵制斯托里克纳亚(Stolichnaya)伏特加酒（又译苏红伏特加）。最急于加入到他们反对莫斯科阵营之中的，非卡斯帕尔斯·萨利蒂斯(Kaspars Zalitis)莫属，他是拉脱维亚一个同性恋权益倡导者，拉脱维亚是长期以来饱受俄罗斯对少数民族压迫之苦的波罗的海国家。
Then came an awkward surprise: Stolichnaya, Mr. Zalitis discovered, is made not in Russia but here in his hometown, the capital of Latvia, which broke free of Russian subjugation more than two decades ago. “I always thought it was Russian,” he said.
不过后来出了一个尴尬的意外：萨利蒂斯发现，斯托里克纳亚伏特加酒的产地不是俄罗斯，而是他的家乡拉脱维亚的首都里加，拉脱维亚在二十多年前从俄罗斯的控制中独立出来。他说，“我一直以为这种酒的产地是俄罗斯。”
Boycotts have long been a blunt and contentious instrument of protest. But efforts to pressure Russia’s abstemious president, Vladimir V. Putin, into dropping a new law outlawing “homosexual propaganda” by getting Americans to dump vodka have provided particularly fertile ground for complaints of good intentions gone awry.
长期以来，抵制产品一直是一种打击面大且存有争议的抗议手段。然而，美国人用抵制伏特加，来向饮酒很有限度的俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)施压，希望其放弃禁止“同性恋宣传”的新法律的努力，尤其为那些好意被扭曲的抱怨提供了沃土。
“They thought Stoli was an easy target,” said Stuart Milk, a gay activist and the nephew of Harvey Milk, the murdered California gay rights pioneer.
“他们认为斯托里克纳亚伏特加是一个轻而易举的目标，”同性恋权益活动人士斯图尔特·米尔卡(Stuart Milk)说，他是被谋杀的加州同性恋权益先驱哈维·米尔卡(Harvey Milk)的侄子。
Promoted by influential gay Americans like the writer Dan Savage and the group Queer Nation, the vodka boycott had “good intentions,” Mr. Milk said. But he said he knew from previous work in the Baltics for his organization, the Harvey Milk Foundation, that Stolichnaya had a large Latvian work force. He decided that boycotting the vodka was “misguided” as it would only hurt a company and a country that are at odds with the Kremlin.
米尔卡说，这场抵制伏特加的运动得到像作家丹·萨维奇(Dan Savage)和“酷儿国”(Queer Nation)等这些有影响力的同性恋美国人的推动，“意图是好的”。但他说，他从自己所在的组织“哈维米尔卡基金会”(Harvey Milk Foundation)以前在波罗的海国家的工作知道，斯托里克纳亚伏特加雇佣大量的拉脱维亚劳动力。他认为抵制这种伏特加酒是“被误导的”，因为这只会伤及一家公司和一个与克里姆林宫不和的国家。
Stolichnaya has contributed to the confusion, for decades promoting itself as Russian vodka on the label and going so far as to proclaim itself the “mother of all vodkas from the motherland of vodka” in a 2006 advertising campaign. The Russia link was later dumped, with labels changed in 2010 to read simply “premium vodka,” but by then its Russian identity had been established.
斯托里克纳亚伏特加酒本身也制造了这种误解，厂家几十年来都在酒的标签上宣传自己是俄罗斯伏特加，还在2006年的一次广告活动中自称是“伏特加酒故乡的所有伏特加酒的鼻祖”。虽然后来在2010年标签改成仅有“优质伏特加”的字样，去掉了与俄罗斯的联系，但那时，该伏特加酒的俄罗斯身份已经为人们所熟知。
The exact nationality of Stolichnaya, like many global brands, is hard to pin down. It was made for a time in Russia and simply bottled in Riga but has in recent years been filtered and blended in Latvia. Yet while its water comes from Latvian springs, its main ingredient, raw alcohol distilled from grain, still comes from Russia. Its bottles are from Poland and Estonia, its caps from Italy.
斯托里克纳亚伏特加的确切产国很难确定，就像很多国际品牌一样。这种酒曾经在俄罗斯生产，在里加装瓶，但最近几年来一直在拉脱维亚进行过滤和混合。虽然酿酒的水是拉脱维亚的泉水，但其主要原料，从谷物中蒸馏的原料酒精仍然来自俄罗斯。其酒瓶在波兰和爱沙尼亚制造，而瓶盖则在意大利制造。
All of the roughly 100,000 bottles of Stolichnaya produced each day for sale in the United States and elsewhere, aside from in Russia, come from a factory here in Riga operated by Latvijas Balzams, a century-old enterprise that ranks as one of the country’s biggest taxpayers and employers.
每天为美国和其他不包括俄罗斯在内的市场生产的所有约10万瓶斯托里克纳亚伏特加，都出自里加的一家工厂，工厂由Latvijas Balzams经营，是一个有着百年历史的老牌企业，也是该国最大的纳税者和最大的雇主之一。
Its principal owner, Yury Shefler, was born and raised in Russia. But accused by Moscow of stealing the Stolichnaya name from the Russian state in the chaotic 1990s, he risks arrest in Russia and has not been there for more than a decade.
该企业的主要业主尤里·谢夫勒(Yury Shefler)在俄罗斯出生、长大。他被莫斯科指控在20世纪90年代的混乱时代窃走了俄罗斯国有的斯托里克纳亚这个名称。他在俄罗斯面临被捕的危险，十几年来一直没回去过。
The company that controls the brand, the Luxembourg-based SPI Group, is also owned by Mr. Shefler, who declined to be interviewed about the boycott of his best-known product. SPI has mounted a vigorous public campaign to show that it is not Russian, does not share the Kremlin’s take on homosexuality and is, as it asserted in a July statement, a “fervent supporter and friend” of those who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender.
控制这一品牌的公司是总部在卢森堡的SPI集团，该集团也归谢夫勒所有，他拒绝就关于抵制他拥有的最知名产品的问题接受采访。SPI已经发起了一场猛烈的公关活动，来表明自己不是俄罗斯公司，也不支持克里姆林宫反同性恋的做法，而且正如公司在7月份的一份声明中所说的那样，它是男同性恋、女同性恋、双性恋及变性者的“热心支持者和朋友”。
To that end, the company’s Latvia office has been badgering the bigger of Riga’s gay bars — there are only two — to start stocking Stolichnaya. Anatolijs Skangalis, the manager of the bar, Golden, said he did not sell the vodka, simply because he preferred other brands, like Russian Standard. It has nothing to do with the American-led boycott, he says, which he ridiculed as a “dirty brand war” that has nothing to do with gay rights.
为此，该公司在拉脱维亚的分公司还一直纠缠着里加最大的同性恋酒吧，希望其开始上架斯托里克纳亚伏特加，里加只有两家同性恋酒吧。阿纳托利耶斯·斯堪咖里斯(Anatolijs Skangalis)是这家名为“金色”(Golden)的酒吧的经理，他说，他不提供这种伏特加，原因只不过是他更喜欢其他牌子的酒，比如俄罗斯丹达伏特加(Russian Standard)等。他说，这跟美国人主导的抵制没有关系，他嘲弄这场抵制活动，称之为“肮脏的品牌之战”，与同性恋权益没有任何关系。
Stolichnaya, said Val Mendeleev, SPI Group’s Russian-born chief executive, is no more a proxy for the Russian state than Google, whose co-founder Sergey Brin was born in Moscow. “People say Stoli is owned by a rich Russian, but Sergey Brin is an even richer Russian,” Mr. Mendeleev said.
SPI集团总裁瓦尔·门捷列夫 (Val Mendeleev)出生于俄罗斯，他说，斯托里克纳亚伏特加不代表俄罗斯国家，就像谷歌(Google)不代表俄罗斯一样，谷歌公司的联合创始人谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)出生于莫斯科。门捷列夫说，“人们说斯托里克纳亚的所有者是个富有的俄罗斯人，但是谢尔盖·布林是个更富有的俄罗斯人。”
SPI Group, he said, is “not trying to hide” its Russian roots — Stolichnaya’s formula, basic ingredients and name, which means capital, all come from Russia — but the company wants to make clear that it is anything but an ally of the Kremlin and that “you will not hurt Russia by dumping Stoli.”
他说，SPI集团“没有试图隐藏”其俄罗斯根源：斯托里克纳亚伏特加的配方、基本原料以及名字（首都的意思）都来自俄罗斯，但公司希望澄清，它根本不是克里姆林宫的盟友，而且“抵制斯托里克纳亚伏特加不会给俄罗斯带来损失”。
In any event, the Riga Stolichnaya factory says its vodka business, 60 percent of which is in the United States, has not yet been hurt by the boycott, despite reports that a number of bars from New York to San Francisco have started taking the drink off their shelves. It can take several weeks for a collapse of sales to work its way into the production end.
无论如何，里加斯托里克纳亚伏特加工厂称，其伏特加销售有60%是在美国，尚未受到抵制的影响，尽管有新闻报道称，从纽约到旧金山的几家酒吧已经开始将这种酒下架。销售巨减的后果渗透到生产端可能需要几周时间。
Mr. Zalitis, for one, is hoping it all blows over. “If the boycott works, Latvians will lose their jobs. Who are they going to blame? Putin? No, they are going to blame gays,” said Mr. Zalitis, who issued an open letter last month protesting the boycott on behalf of Mozaika, Latvia’s only gay rights lobby group.
萨利蒂斯是希望尽快结束抵制的人之一。他说，“如果抵制起了作用，拉脱维亚人就会失去工作。他们会指责谁呢？普京？不，他们将会吧怒气发到同性恋者身上。”他在8月发表了一封公开信，以拉脱维亚唯一的同性恋权益游说组织Mozaika的名义，抗议这个抵制活动。
But when Mr. Zalitis wrote an open letter suggesting that Americans behind the vodka boycott reconsider their “Dump Stoli” campaign, Queer Nation fired off a tart response. The boycott, the group wrote back, is aimed at all Russian vodkas, and “because Stolichnaya is a Russian vodka that is made by a Russian company, it is also an appropriate target.”
但是，当萨利蒂斯发表公开信，暗示抵制这种伏特加酒的美国人应该重新考虑他们的“抵制斯托里”(Dump Stoli)运动时，“酷儿国”给出一个尖刻的回应。该组织回应称，抵制活动的目标是所有俄罗斯伏特加，“因为斯托里克纳亚是一家俄罗斯公司生产的一种俄罗斯伏特加，所以它也是一个合理的抵制对象。”
In response to Mr. Zalitis’s complaints that Stolichnaya is actually made in Latvia, Queer Nation said curtly that the brand “is not a Latvian vodka” because the grain used to make it all comes from Russia and because SPI, Mr. Shefler’s drinks conglomerate, “has offices and operations in Russia.”
在萨利蒂斯指出斯托里克纳亚伏特加实际上产自拉脱维亚后，“酷儿国”唐突地回应说，这个品牌“不是拉脱维亚的”，因为酿造酒的谷物来自俄罗斯，而且谢夫勒的饮品集团公司SPI“在俄罗斯有公司和业务”。
Mr. Mendeleev, SPI’s chief executive, acknowledged that the company has an office in Moscow, but with only around 10 employees. The company also grows grain and operates a distillery in the Russian region of Tambov to produce raw alcohol for shipment to the vodka plant in Riga. Together, there are about 600 employees in Russia, Mr. Mendeleev said, and 900 or so working in Latvia.
SPI总裁门捷列夫承认该公司在莫斯科有办公室，但称那里只有约10名雇员。该公司也在坦波夫的俄罗斯地区种植有谷物和一家酿酒厂，酿制原料酒精并运送到位于里加的伏特加工厂。门捷列夫说，公司在俄罗斯共约有600名员工，在拉脱维亚雇有900人左右。
When Latvia held its first gay pride march in 2005, protesters hurled stones at the marchers while politicians denounced the event as a national shame. “The hatred was dreadful,” said Juris Calitis, an Anglican and former Lutheran priest in Riga who held a church service for gay parishioners and was expelled by the Lutheran Church.
当拉脱维亚在2005年举行首次同性恋大游行时，抗议者曾向参加游行的人扔石头，政客还将游行称为国家的一个耻辱。里加英国国教牧师尤里斯·卡里特斯(Juris Calitis)说，“仇恨太可怕了。”他原是一位路德教牧师，因在教区为同性恋教民举办祈祷活动，而被路德教堂开除了。
But, according to Mr. Calitis and gay advocates here, the climate has since mellowed considerably. Mr. Calitis said he did not know whether singling out Stolichnaya would help or hurt gay rights but that he was nonetheless “all in favor of boycotting vodka” regardless of its nationality.
但据卡里特斯和这里的同性恋倡导所言，这里的氛围从那以后缓和了很多。卡里特斯说他对单独指名抵制斯托里克纳亚伏特加酒会帮助、还是会损害同性恋权益无从所知，但他“支持抵制伏特加酒”，不论酒的生产国家。
Active for years helping orphaned children and the hungry, he has seen the ravages of alcohol. “If vodka were boycotted here in Latvia, it would be a great day,” he said.
他多年来一直在帮助孤儿和饥民，他看到许多酒精带来的毁坏。他说，“如果拉脱维亚开始抵制伏特加，那将会是个美好的日子。”