WASHINGTON — The United States Fish and Wildlife Service will destroy six tons of illegal African elephant ivory next week that it has been stockpiling since the ’80s, officials said on Tuesday.
华盛顿——美国鱼类和野生动物管理局(United States Fish and Wildlife Service)的官员周二表示，该机构将于下周销毁自上世纪80年代积攒至今的6吨非法非洲象牙。
Blaming increased demand for a devastating rise in poaching, largely by organized crime syndicates, members of a task force created by President Obama told reporters in a briefing at the National Press Building that they wanted to send a message of zero tolerance and reduce the appeal of ivory, rhinoceros horns and other illicit animal products.
在国家新闻大楼(National Press Building)召开新闻发布会时，由奥巴马总统组建的特别工作组的成员把日益猖獗的偷猎行为——实施者主要是有组织的犯罪集团——归咎为需求的增加。工作组成员告诉记者，他们要传达一种零容忍的态度，还要弱化象牙、犀牛角以及其他非法动物制品的吸引力。
“By destroying our domestic stocks of ivory, we send a very clear signal that these illegally traded products should not be perceived as items of value,” said Robert G. Dreher, acting assistant attorney general for the environment and natural resources.
“通过销毁本国储存的象牙，我们要发出一个明确的信号——这些非法交易的制品不该被视为有价值的物品，”美国司法部负责环境和自然资源事务的代理助理司法部长罗伯特·G·德雷埃尔(Robert G. Dreher)说。
At the National Wildlife Property Repository near Denver on Nov. 14, the wildlife service, working with conservation organizations, will crush six tons of tusks, artwork and other ivory objects that were confiscated upon entering the United States. Officials said that to raise awareness further, the crushed ivory would be used to create memorials around the country against poaching. The United States is the second-largest consumer, behind China, of illegal animal products like elephant ivory, rhinoceros horn and tiger blood.
11月14日，鱼类和野生生物管理局将与野生动物保护组织一起，在丹佛附近的国家野生动物财产保管所(National Wildlife Property Repository)粉碎6吨象牙、象牙工艺品以及其他象牙制品，它们都是在进入美国国境时被罚没的。官员称，为了进一步提高关注度，粉碎后的象牙将被用于在全国各地建造反偷猎纪念碑。美国是象牙、犀牛角、虎血等非法动物制品的第二大消费国，仅次于中国。
Daniel M. Ashe, the director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, said that reintroducing the government’s stock of ivory into the legal market was not a viable option because small sales had been shown to stimulate demand, not satiate it. Officials also said adding to the supply would make it harder to identify and prosecute illegal trade.
美国鱼类及野生动物管理局主管丹尼尔·M·阿什(Daniel M. Ashe)说，在合法市场上重新出售政府手里的象牙制品并不可行，因为事实证明，小规模的拍卖只会刺激需求，而不是让需求出现饱和。官员们还表示，如果以这种方式增加供给，查明非法交易并提起诉讼的工作难度就会加大。
The Philippines, Kenya and Gabon have also destroyed their stocks of ivory.
菲律宾、肯尼亚和加蓬也销毁了它们库存的象牙。
Elephant tusks are enlarged teeth embedded in the animal’s skull, and removal can be fatal. Poachers usually kill them in any case because the African elephant, the largest land mammal, can be dangerous when provoked.
象牙是嵌在大象头骨里的巨大牙齿，取走象牙对大象可能是致命的。偷猎者通常都会杀死非洲大象，因为它是陆地上最大的哺乳动物，被激怒以后非常危险。
The slaughter of African elephants has intensified recently — scientists estimate that tens of thousands are killed each year — as the value of ivory has skyrocketed above even gold. Much of the demand originates in China, where prosperity has fueled the market, despite a 1989 international ban on the commercial trade of African elephant ivory. Last year ivory sold for $1,000 per pound on the streets of Beijing.
象牙价格近年来不断飙升，甚至超过了黄金，导致屠杀非洲大象的行为变得越发猖獗了。据科学家估计，每年都有数以万计的大象被杀。相当一部分需求源自中国，该国的经济繁荣带动了市场发展，尽管国际社会在1989年就禁止了非洲象牙的商业贸易。去年象牙在北京市面上的价格是每磅1000美元。
“It’s not risk free to kill elephants and illegally traffic in their ivory, but the value of the product is making the risk worth it for many of these criminals,” Mr. Ashe said.
“杀死大象以及非法贩卖象牙并非没有风险，但象牙产品价值不菲，对许多犯罪分子而言，以身犯险是值得的，”阿什说。
Mr. Obama elevated wildlife trafficking as a security issue in July when he issued an executive order that created the task force, composed of officials from the State Department, the Interior Department and the Justice Department, among others. The president also pledged an additional $10 million in aid to Africa to fight poaching.
今年7月，奥巴马把野生动物贩卖提升到了安全问题的高度，他发出行政命令，组建了特别工作组，其成员包括来自国务院(State Department)、内政部(Interior Department)和司法部(Justice Department)的官员，以及其他一些人员。总统还承诺，将向非洲追加1000万美元的援助资金，用以对抗偷猎行为。
While poaching was once largely a crime of opportunity, officials say it has become increasingly sophisticated, often orchestrated and carried out by heavily armed people, connected to larger criminal groups, who do not hesitate to kill those who try to stop them. The cash goes to fund other crimes like human trafficking and conflicts in the region.
过去，偷猎大多是临时起意的偶发犯罪，但官员们表示，它已经变得越来越复杂，通常是由全副武装的人员精心策划和实施的。他们背靠大型犯罪集团，会毫不犹豫地杀死试图阻止自己的人。所获款项又可以为贩卖人口等其他犯罪活动或者非洲当地的冲突提供资金支持。
“These people are also a threat to international order,” Mr. Dreher said.
“这些人对国际秩序也是一种威胁，”德雷埃尔说。
The task force is also working to step up law enforcement and reinforce trade laws banning illegal animal products. In the United States, hunting trophies and ivory antiques that predate the 1989 ban are permitted as trade exceptions, but Mr. Dreher said it could be hard to tell the age of ivory.
此外，特别工作组正想方设法加大执法力度，强化禁止非法动物制品贸易的法规。在美国，在1989年禁令颁布之前的狩猎品以及象牙质地的古董，是可以作为特例被买卖的，但德雷埃尔说象牙制品的年代非常难判断。
Mr. Dreher and other officials acknowledge that they have their work cut out for them. One complication is that soldiers from some African armies, including close partners of the American military, have been among the culprits of poaching.
德雷埃尔和其他一些官员都表示，他们的任务十分艰巨。一个难题是，来自非洲各军队——其中包括美国军方的亲密合作伙伴——的士兵，已经跻身偷猎者的行列。