AFTER seeing the “The Normal Heart” on Broadway last June, three teenagers from Minnesota were in a frenzy explaining why they had chosen the play. “Sheldon!” they all shouted, naming the socially clueless lead character on the CBS hit comedy “The Big Bang Theory” played by Jim Parsons, who had a small role in the play.
去年6月，三个从美国明尼苏达来的少年看完了百老汇上演的《平常心》(The Normal Heart)后，激动地解释为什么选择观赏这部话剧。“谢尔顿(Sheldon)！”他们异口同声地叫道。他们说的是CBS热播剧《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)中那个对社交一窍不通的主角，饰演他的演员吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)在这部话剧中扮演一个小角色。
Here was celebrity casting in action, yet it had unintended consequences: the teenagers hadn’t known that the show was about gay men dying of AIDS, and they left disappointed that Mr. Parsons wasn’t acting as outrageously pompous as Sheldon, a role that earned him Emmy Awards in 2010 and 2011.
这就是名人效应，不过却产生了意想不到的结果：这几个少年原本并不知道，这部话剧讲述的是因为艾滋病而垂死的同性恋男人，看完话剧后他们觉得很失望，因为帕森斯在剧中扮演的角色并不像谢尔顿那样是个自大狂，那个角色使他在2010年和2011年连夺两届艾美奖。
Mr. Parsons is back on Broadway during another summer hiatus from television, and this time he faces audience expectations that are even more complicated.
今年夏天，帕森斯又趁着电视档期的空档重返百老汇，这次他面对的观众期待，也要更加复杂。
Not only is he dealing with the shadow of Sheldon again, but also that of a certain actor named Jimmy Stewart. Mr. Parsons is leading a Broadway cast for the first time, in a revival of “Harvey,” the Pulitzer Prize-winning comedy from 1944 about the sweet-natured Elwood P. Dowd and his invisible friend, the title character, a 6-foot-tall rabbit. The show ran on Broadway for four years, opening with Frank Fay as the lead. Stewart later followed as Elwood before bringing him to wider fame in the 1950 film, for which he was nominated for an Oscar. He reprised the role in 1970, the only previous revival on Broadway of this play, which became feared for the task of taking on The Jimmy Stewart Role.
他要再次处理谢尔顿以及一个叫吉米·斯图尔特(Jimmy Stewart)的演员在观众心目中留下的影子。这是帕森斯首次在百老汇话剧中担纲主角，他参与了《哈维》(Harvey)的重排，这部曾获得普利策奖的喜剧自1944年开始登台亮相，讲的是生性温柔的埃尔伍德·P.多德(Elwood P. Dowd)与他看不见的朋友、一只6英尺高的兔子哈维之间的故事。这部话剧在百老汇上演了四年，最初由弗兰克·费伊(Frank Fay)领衔主演。此后斯图尔特饰演埃尔伍德这个角色，并出演1950年的同名电影，因此获得一项奥斯卡奖提名。1970年，他再次出演这个角色，这是该剧此前唯一一次在百老汇重排，之后的演员们都对挑战吉米·斯图尔特的这个角色感到畏惧。
While Mr. Parsons is keenly aware that both Sheldon and Stewart are indelible, he has also drawn confidence from acting techniques and instincts that have served him well for more than 20 years, since choosing his career after performing in the farce “Noises Off” in high school.
帕森斯虽然清楚地知道，无论是谢尔顿还是斯图尔特的痕迹都很难抹去，但自打他在高中出演闹剧《糊涂戏班》(Noises Off)后选择演艺事业，20多年来，他一直从自己的表演技巧与直觉中汲取自信。
“People may not like me as Elwood, people may say ‘I enjoyed Jimmy Stewart more,’ ” he said recently, over coffee at a Midtown Mahattan hotel. “There’s nothing I can do about that. But I have to come in and take a stand on the performance, as it were.”
“大家也许不喜欢我演埃尔伍德，大家也许会说，‘我更喜欢吉米·斯图尔特的演出，’”最近在纽约曼哈顿中区的一家酒店，他一边喝着咖啡一边说：“对这个，我一点办法都没有。不过我必须演下去，在演出中找到自己的位置，就跟以往一样。”
He memorizes his dialogue well beforehand, writing out lines on white 3-by-5 index cards (he has 200 for “Harvey”). He creates precise physical worlds for his characters, down to where they would place a hat or coat or, in the case of Harvey, where the rabbit would be at every second. He obsesses over body language too: the angular, ungainly stride he created for Sheldon, and the alternately swift and halting paces of Elwood.
他事先背下了自己的台词，台词写在3x5英寸大小的提词卡上（他为《哈维》准备了200张卡片）。他为自己的角色创造了一个精确的真实世界，连他们在哪里搁帽子或大衣都有细致的安排，至于哈维，他也想好了这只兔子每一秒钟该出现在何处。他对身体语言也极为着迷：为谢尔顿这个角色，他创造出了一种笨拙的、笔直划一的大步走步姿；为埃尔伍德，他则创造出了时而敏捷、时而蹒跚的步态。
And he still has never seen the Stewart film or any stage production of “Harvey.”
他甚至一直没看过斯图尔特的电影，或者《哈维》的剧场版演出。
“I try to master every facet of a character in order to build a safety net for myself, so I can go on to take more risks to create someone really distinct,” said Mr. Parsons, who is 39, roughly the same age as Stewart when he first played Elwood on Broadway.“One of my very early teachers said over and over again: ‘What are you bringing to the party?’ That expression never left me.
“我想要尽力掌握角色的方方面面，为自己编织一张安全网，这样一来，我就敢于冒更大的风险，创造出真正独特的角色，”帕森斯这样说。今年他39岁，跟斯图尔特首次在百老汇饰演埃尔伍德刚巧是一样的年纪。“我的一位启蒙老师曾反反复复说：‘你能为这个角色带来什么？’他说的这句话，一直都萦绕在我心头。”
“Well, what about it? What am I bringing to this party?”
“嗯，究竟是什么呢？我能为这个角色带来什么？”
“If I’m not making a choice with each and every line,” he continued, “then why are you bothering watching me?”
“假如我不能通过我的诠释，为观众带来另一种观剧的选择，那么，你们又干嘛非得来看我演呢？”他继续说。
Mr. Parsons hastened to add that he was not disrespecting Stewart, nor was he cavalier about audience reactions. He is the sort of person, in fact, you could imagine taking his bow then apologizing to theatergoers if any of them were disappointed with his work. His unfailing politeness has an old-fashioned courtliness to it; at a rehearsal for “Harvey” this month, he said sorry every time he had to ask the script prompter to remind him of a line.
话音刚落，帕森斯赶紧补充说，他并非不尊重斯图尔特，也不是对观众的反应漠不关心。他其实是这种人，你甚至可以想象的出来，如果戏院里有任何一位观众对他的表现不满，他都会鞠躬致歉。他永远是这么客气，身上带着种老派的谦恭；5月份在排演《哈维》时，每次请提词人提醒他一句台词，他都会说声“对不起”。
It sounded almost automatic, reflecting a tendency to speak his mind without a trace of self-consciousness (a habit that makes his television character so winningly exasperating). At one point during the rehearsal, for instance, the actress Jessica Hecht — who plays Elwood’s sister, Veta — put a prop down on stage in a spot where Mr. Parsons wasn’t expecting it.
他道起歉来简直像是无意识的，这不难让人发现，他是那种容易脱口而出的人（正是这个习惯使得他在电视上扮演的那个角色让人哭笑不得）。有一次彩排，在剧中扮演埃尔伍德姐姐维塔(Veta)的演员杰茜卡·赫克特(Jessica Hecht)，在舞台一角放了件道具，帕森斯没想到她会放在那个位置上。
“Did Jessica leave that there?” Mr. Parsons said. “That’s never going to work.”
“杰茜卡是把它放在那儿吗？”帕森斯说。“放那儿不行吧。”
“It won’t happen again,” Ms. Hecht replied collegially.
“下次不会了，”赫克特赶紧回答。
“It never happened before,” he said — not in an accusatory way but, like Sheldon, with an almost absent-minded bluntness.
“以前就不是放这儿的，”他说——他并不是有意找茬，但跟谢尔顿一样，几乎带着种没心没肺的直率。
“Um, let’s talk about it more,” she joked.
“呃，要不我们待会儿再说个痛快，”她开玩笑说。
Later, Ms. Hecht described the way Mr. Parsons speaks as a kind of afterthought.
事后，赫克特形容说，帕森斯当时说这话时，应当没经过大脑。
“His concentration is so total that he sometimes says surprising things that I don’t even think he’s aware he’s saying,” said Ms. Hecht, a Tony nominee for her last Broadway role, in the 2010 revival of “A View from the Bridge.” “There’s something so dorky in the best way about him.”
“他真是特别投入，所以有时他能说出些让人意外的话来，我觉得他甚至都没意识到自己说了这话，”赫克特说。她上一次在百老汇出演角色，是2010年参与重排剧《桥头眺望》(A View from the Bridge)的演出，因此获得托尼奖提名。“他有种特别的憨，在他身上却恰到好处。”
他本想当个气象学家
Growing up in Houston, the son of an elementary-school teacher and a plumbing company president, Mr. Parsons was a theater nerd from the start; he recalled throwing himself into the role of the Kola-Kola bird in his first-grade production of “The Elephant’s Child” by Kipling. His curiosity about performance grew from watching the physical antics and reaction shots in the television sitcom “Three’s Company.”
帕森斯在休斯顿长大，他的父母分别是小学老师和水暖公司总裁。他自小就是剧场狂人，他回忆说，在读一年级时，兴奋地扮演了吉卜林(Kipling)的《大象的孩子》(The Elephant’s Child)中一只叫Kola-Kola的鸟。而在看电视情景喜剧《三人行》(Three’s Company)时，因为片中夸张的形体动作和脸部特写镜头，他对表演的兴趣被更加热切地调动起来。
“There was a kind of musicality to the actors’ timing and rhythms that I really responded to,” said Mr. Parsons, who also played piano as a boy.
“演员所选择的时机与节奏，在我看来有种韵律感，这让我真的特别有感觉。”孩提时代练习过钢琴的帕森斯这样说。
A turning point came in junior year of high school, when Mr. Parsons was mulling the idea of becoming a meteorologist (Gulf Coast weather had led to a fascination with hurricanes). Thanks to his drama teacher and a fellow student, he was persuaded to take the role of Frederick Fellowes, a nosebleed-prone actor who beats himself up when things go amiss, in the farce “Noises Off.” But as the show moved toward opening night, he became concerned that he and his castmates weren’t in fine enough form.
在读高二那年，帕森斯迎来了一个转折点，当时，他正考虑着以后要当气象学家（墨西哥湾沿岸地带的天气，很容易让人对飓风现象感到着迷）。好在他的戏剧老师和一位同学说服了他，让他在闹剧《糊涂戏班》中饰演弗雷德里克·费罗斯(Frederick Fellowes)，这是个容易流鼻血的演员，每当事情一团糟时就会把自己烂揍一通。但在即将开演时，他开始担心自己和其他演员的状态不够好。
“All we had was each other, and our very basic mastery of the play, but at our first performance we pulled together and relied on each other and everything clicked,” he said. “We didn’t mug for laughs, we didn’t do anything showy — we just worked together as an ensemble. I felt totally comfortable in this warped world that was far away from the real world. And I wanted to keep doing it.”
“我们能有的只有彼此，以及我们极为初级的表演技巧，但在首场演出中我们齐心协力，互相支持，一切都那么圆满，”他说。“我们没有故意扮丑讨观众一笑，没有做任何华而不实的表演——我们只是作为一个团体亲密全作。在这个反常态的，远离真实世界的地方，我感觉极其自在。于是我想继续做下去。”
Mr. Parsons went on to perform more than two dozen plays during and after his undergraduate years at the University of Houston; he was so busy that he failed a course in meteorology, putting an end to that career path. He did 17 plays in three years with an experimental theater company, Infernal Bridegroom Productions. He was the exploitative doctor in Büchner’s “Woyzeck” in a parking lot, and the servant Clov in Beckett’s “Endgame” and the gambler Rusty Charlie in “Guys & Dolls,” both performed in warehouses.
在休斯顿大学读本科期间和毕业后，帕森斯又参与了20多场演出；因为太忙，他挂了一门气象学的课程，从事这门职业彻底无望。在地狱新郎制作(Infernal Bridegroom Productions)这家试验性的剧团，他三年里参演了17部戏剧。他曾在停车场里出演布希纳(Büchner)作品《沃伊采克》(Woyzeck)中那个剥削人的医生，也曾在仓库中演了两部戏，分别是贝克特(Beckett)作品《剧终》(Endgame)中的仆人克洛夫(Clov)，以及《红男绿女》(Guys & Dolls)中的赌徒查理(Rusty Charlie)。
After graduation he pursued classical training in the master’s program at the University of San Diego, then spent several years in New York working Off Broadway and in guest appearances on television while making trips to Los Angeles looking for work.
大学毕业后，他先攻读了圣迭戈大学的硕士课程，继续接受表演艺术的传统训练，然后在纽约待了几年，在百老汇之外的舞台表演，友情客串了几部电视剧，同时不断前去洛杉矶寻找工作机会。
When he received the pilot script for “The Big Bang Theory,” he said, the show — about a group of genius-level scientists with terrible social skills — seemed clever enough to him, but the role of Sheldon felt like a great fit.
他介绍说，在收到《生活大爆炸》的试播集剧本时，他感到这部讲述一群高智商、社交技巧却极差的科学家的剧本很妙，而谢尔顿这个角色让他感觉更是天作之合。
“There was something in his inability to understand sarcasm, his inability to read emotions off people in a general sense, that I understood,” Mr. Parsons said with a crooked smile. (For the record, in person he is far more at ease and a much better listener than Sheldon.)
“他身上的有些东西我很理解，比方说他不理解别人的挖苦，总体来说也看不懂别人的情绪，”帕森斯说着，挤了个笑脸（有必要一提，他本人比起谢尔顿要从容多了，也更善于聆听）。
Chuck Lorre, one of the creators and producers of “Big Bang,” said Mr. Parsons’s audition was so “brilliant” that he asked the actor to return another day to make sure the performance wasn’t a fluke.
该剧的主创和制片人之一查克·劳埃(Chuck Lorre)说，帕森斯在试镜时极其“出彩”，为此他请帕森斯改日再来试一次镜，以防头一次只是运气好。
“He physically embodied a character who was like none we had seen before — the peculiar rhythms of the words, the way he held his body,” Mr. Lorre said. “He was uncanny in the choices he was making second to second.”
“他呈现了一个在此之前我们都见所未见的角色——说话的节奏、身体的姿态都是那么特别，”劳埃说：“他的一举一动，每一处细节的演绎都极其不可思议。”
(Mr. Parsons is set to return to “Big Bang” in August; “Harvey” opens on June 14.)
（帕森斯定在8月重返《生活大爆炸》剧组，《哈维》在6月14日公演。） 让人耳目一新的快活劲儿
By the winter of 2011 Mr. Parsons had won his first Emmy for “Big Bang” and was midway through Season 4 when he felt he was “spinning my wheels” as an actor, and began looking to do a play again. He landed the role of Tommy Boatwright, a young gay activist in “The Normal Heart” who bucks up the main characters in their fight against AIDS. The humanity and intensity of the play appealed to him, he said, just as Beckett and Büchner once did; in graduate school, too, his thesis project was a 15-minute performance piece about a mentally disabled death-row inmate, a psychiatrist and a murder victim’s father — all played by Mr. Parsons.
2011年冬天，帕森斯以《生活大爆炸》赢取了他的首个艾美奖，在拍第四季时，他感觉作为演员有点迷失，于是开始寻思着要再去演部戏剧。他选择的是《平常心》中的角色托米·波特莱特(Tommy Boatwright)，这是个年轻的同性恋活动家，在主角们与艾滋病抗争的过程中，他一路为他们打气。他说，正如贝克特和布希纳的戏剧给他的感觉一样，这部戏的人性与张力吸引了他。在读硕士时，他的毕业设计就是一部15分钟的表演，讲述了一个心智不健全的死刑犯、一个心理医生和一个凶杀受害者的父亲——他一人分饰这三个角色。
“If I ever wrote a script myself, it would be strongly emotional material,” he said. “Every time I think about writing, comedy doesn’t interest me in the slightest. I can play comedy, but I don’t think in terms of comic dialogue.”
“假如有朝一日我自己写剧本，本子的内容在情感上肯定特别激烈，”他说：“每次在我考虑写作时，喜剧完全不在我的关注范围。我可以演喜剧，但我没法想出喜剧的对白。”
“The Normal Heart” resonated with him on a few levels: Mr. Parsons is gay and in a 10-year relationship, and working with an ensemble again onstage was like nourishment, he said. As the production was ending last summer, he heard that the Roundabout Theater Company was considering a revival of “Harvey” — initially with John C. Reilly under consideration for Elwood — and last November the play’s director, Scott Ellis, asked him and Ms. Hecht to do a private reading of the work in Los Angeles.
《平常心》在几个层面与他产生了共鸣：帕森斯自己就是同性恋，与男友已经相恋10年，此外他说，能与一大班演员登台演出，对他不啻是一剂补品。去年夏天这部戏结束时，他听说旋转木马剧团(Roundabout Theater Company)准备重排《哈维》——起初剧团考虑请约翰·C.莱利(John C. Reilly)扮演埃尔伍德——去年11月，这部戏的导演斯科特·埃里斯(Scott Ellis)请他与赫克特去洛杉矶，参加一次私下进行的读剧本会。
“Jim was solid in ‘The Normal Heart,’ ” Mr. Ellis said, “but his character didn’t really change in the journey of that play, so I wanted to see if Jim could take on a challenge and float a couple of feet off the ground, so to speak, in that magical way Elwood has. And in the reading he was just smart, smart, smart.”
“吉姆在《平常心》里表演很扎实，”埃里斯说：“但他扮演的角色并没有对剧情发展起到关键作用，所以我想看看他是否能迎接挑战，换句话说，他能不能像埃尔伍德这个魔幻的角色那样，凭空飘起几英尺来。在这次读剧本会上，他表现得真是非常、非常、非常聪明。”
In rehearsals Mr. Parsons focused particularly on his relationship with Harvey — a character who is not there. He chose spots in the Studio 54 theater to fix his gaze, at the exact height where Harvey’s face would be, and developed a series of hand gestures when Elwood was speaking to or making way for the rabbit. If the show has plenty of the laugh lines that Mr. Parsons finds familiar from television, he said he was more aware of the differences between Elwood and Sheldon — and was savoring them.
在排演时，帕森斯将焦点主要对准了他与哈维间的关系——而这是个并不存在的角色。在Studio 54俱乐部，他精心挑选了几个点，刚好与哈维的脸应该在的位置一般高。他还设计了一整套手势，专门用在与兔子讲话，或者为它开路上。可以说这出戏出现了大量笑点，这与帕森斯在拍电视时的感觉很相近，不过他说，他更关注的是埃尔伍德与谢尔顿的区别——并且很享受这个过程。
“Elwood has such warmth, and wants nothing more than to connect with other people, whereas my nine-month-a-year job is a character who says things like, ‘If you don’t mind, I’d like to stop listening to you and talk now,’ ” Mr. Parsons said. “The jump-out-of-bed happiness I feel transcends any nerves about taking on a history-laden role.
“埃尔伍德是个非常温暖的人，他唯一想要的就是与别人好好相处，而我每年投入九个月做的这份工作，是要塑造一个总是说，‘如果你不介意，我希望不要再听你讲话，换成我来说’的角色，”帕森斯说：“所以，这种让人耳目一新的快活劲儿，足以超越下一个带着沉重历史负累的角色所带来的紧张感。”
“Now, would it have been preferable to take on a role that had not been created before? God yes. But breaking in a new role takes more time than I’ll have until my time on TV comes to an end. And when it does, I hope I’ll be back for longer.”
“担任一个全新的角色是否更好？老天，当然是啦。但尝试一个新角色需要更多时间，等到我的电视工作告一段落以后才行。等到时机到来了，希望我在舞台上的时间能更长久些。”