WASHINGTON — Days before the presidential election, James Alefantis, owner of a local pizza restaurant called Comet Ping Pong, noticed an unusual spike in the number of his Instagram followers.
华盛顿——在大选日再过几天就要到来的时候，当地一家名为“彗星乒乓”(Comet Ping Pong)的披萨餐厅的所有者詹姆斯·阿莱方蒂斯(James Alefantis)发现，自己的Instagram粉丝人数出现了不同寻常的激增。
Within hours, menacing messages like “we’re on to you” began appearing in his Instagram feed. In the ensuing days, hundreds of death threats — one read “I will kill you personally” — started arriving via texts, Facebook and Twitter. All of them alleged something that made Alefantis’ jaw drop: that Comet Ping Pong was the home base of a child abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton and her campaign chief, John D. Podesta.
数小时内，“我们盯上你了”之类语带威胁的留言开始登上他的Instagram页面。接下来的几天里，有人通过短信、Facebook和Twitter发来了成百上千则死亡威胁。其中一则写道：“我会亲自杀死你”。所有这些信息都提到了一件让阿莱方蒂斯惊掉了下巴的事情：彗星乒乓是一个由希拉里·克林顿及其竞选团队主席约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)领导的虐童组织的大本营。
When Alefantis discovered that his employees were getting similar abusive messages, he looked online to unravel the accusations. He found dozens of made-up articles about Clinton kidnapping, molesting and trafficking children in the restaurant’s back rooms. The articles appeared on Facebook and on websites such as The New Nationalist and The Vigilant Citizen, with one headline blaring: “Pizzagate: How 4Chan Uncovered the Sick World of Washington’s Occult Elite.”
发现自己的员工也收到了类似的辱骂信息以后，阿莱方蒂斯上网查找了这种指控的来龙去脉。他发现了数十篇胡编乱造的文章，说什么克林顿以该餐厅后面的房间为基地，绑架、侵害和贩卖儿童。这些文章出现在了Facebook上，以及新民族主义者(The New Nationalist)、警惕的公民(The Vigilant Citizen)之类的网站上，标题相当耸动：“披萨门：4Chan如何揭露华盛顿神秘精英的病态世界。”
None of it was true. While Alefantis has some prominent Democratic friends in Washington and was a supporter of Clinton, he has never met her, does not sell or abuse children, and is not being investigated by law enforcement for any of these claims. He and his 40 employees had unwittingly become real people caught in the middle of a storm of fake news.
没有一篇说的是事实。阿莱方蒂斯的确有几位位高权重的民主党朋友，而且是克林顿的支持者，但他从未遇到过克林顿，从未贩卖或者虐待过儿童，也从未因为所有这些指控而受到执法部门的调查。他和他的40名员工不知不觉地成为了被假新闻风暴裹挟的真人。
“From this insane, fabricated conspiracy theory, we’ve come under constant assault,” said Alefantis, 42, who was once in a relationship with David Brock, a provocative former right-wing journalist who became an outspoken advocate for Clinton.
“由于这一疯狂的凭空捏造的阴谋论，我们不断受到攻击，”现年42岁的阿莱方蒂斯说。他以前和曾经颇具争议性的右翼记者，后来却直言不讳地拥护克林顿的大卫·布鲁克(David Brock)交往过。
Alefantis suspects those relationships may have helped to make him a target. “I’ve done nothing for days but try to clean this up and protect my staff and friends from being terrorized,” he said.
阿莱方蒂斯怀疑，这些关系可能是导致他成为靶子的部分原因。“好多天来我什么都没干，光顾着收拾烂摊子并保护我的员工和朋友免遭恐吓了，”他说。
Fake news online has been at the center of a furious debate for the past few weeks over how it may have influenced voters in the presidential election. President Barack Obama warned last week that we are “in an age where there’s so much active misinformation and it’s packaged very well” on social media sites. The criticism has buffeted web companies such as Google and Facebook, whose chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to work on technology tools to slow the gusher of false digital information.
过去几周里，人们围绕网络假新闻在总统选举过程中对选民产生了什么样的影响展开了激烈讨论。贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统上周警告称，在我们“身处的时代”，社交媒体网站上“活跃着大量经过精心包装的虚假信息”。这种批评让谷歌(Google)、Facebook等网络公司受到了冲击。后者的首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)已经作出承诺，要致力于开发旨在遏制虚假数字化信息井喷势头的技术工具。
But Alefantis’ experience shows it is not just politicians and internet companies that are grappling with the fake news fallout. He, his staff and friends have become a new kind of private citizen bull’s-eye for the purveyors of false articles and their believers.
但阿莱方蒂斯的经历表明，因假新闻层出不穷而陷入困境的不只是政治人物和互联网公司。作为普通公民，他本人以及他的员工和朋友们已经成为了那些捏造和相信假新闻的人眼中的新靶心。
For more than two weeks, they have struggled to deal with the abusive social media comments and to protect photos of their own children, which were used in the false articles as evidence that the pizza restaurant was running a pedophilia ring. One person even visited Comet Ping Pong to investigate the allegations for himself.
在两周多时间里，他们无力应对社交媒体上粗鲁的评论，保护自己孩子的照片。在杜撰的文章中，那些照片被当成了该披萨店经营着一个恋童癖团伙的证据。有一个人甚至来“彗星乒乓”餐厅亲自调查相关指控。
To combat the fake news tide, Alefantis has contacted the FBI and the local police, and he has asked Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Reddit to remove the articles. Yet the misinformation has continued to spread, growing into a theory known as #pizzagate that has traveled to Ireland. At one point, Comet’s staff counted five #pizzagate Twitter posts a minute. As recently as Sunday night, the Twitter message “Don’t let up. #PizzaGate EVERYWHERE” was reposted and liked hundreds of times.
为了对付这股假新闻浪潮，阿莱方蒂斯联系了联邦调查局(FBI)和当地警方，并要求Facebook、Twitter、YouTube和Reddit删除相关文章。但虚假信息继续扩散，演变成了一个叫#披萨门的理论，并且已传播至爱尔兰。彗星餐厅的员工一度一分钟内在Twitter上发现了五个标记着#披萨门的帖子。就在周日晚上，Twitter上一个写着“不要停下来。#披萨门无处不在”的帖子还被转发和点赞数百次。
“It’s like trying to shoot a swarm of bees with one gun,” said Bryce Reh, Comet’s general manager, whose wife asked him to leave his job because of the threats and vulgar messages they both have received on their social media accounts.
“就像试图用一把枪打一大群蜜蜂一样，”彗星餐厅的总经理布赖斯·雷(Bryce Reh)说。因为两人都在自己的社交媒体账号上收到了威胁和粗俗信息，妻子让他辞职。
Alefantis, an artist born and raised in Washington, co-founded Comet Ping Pong 10 years ago as a casual spot for clay oven pizza. The restaurant has kid-friendly features like Ping-Pong tables and a craft room. Famous natives like members of the band Fugazi have held small shows there. The eatery, which seats 120, is a mash-up of red and white checkered tablecloths and modernist murals and paintings from friends of Alefantis.
作为一名艺术家，阿莱方蒂斯在华盛顿出生和长大。十年前，他与人共同创办“彗星乒乓”餐厅，并将其营造成了一个提供陶土烤炉披萨的轻松场所。餐厅里有一些孩子喜欢的设施，如乒乓球桌和一个手工间。一些著名的本地人，如Fugazi乐队的成员曾在这里举行过几次小型演出。餐厅可容纳120人，红白方格桌布和现代派壁画及阿莱方蒂斯的朋友赠送的画作融为一体。
Alefantis mingles with other Washington chefs and his establishment helped him to be named No. 49 in GQ magazine’s 50 most powerful people in Washington in 2012. His customers include some high-powered locals, such as Tony Podesta, the brother of John Podesta, whom Alefantis knows casually. Alefantis and Brock, who is the founder of Media Matters for America, a website that tracks press coverage critical of the Clintons and works to debunk misinformation in the conservative press, broke up five years ago.
阿莱方蒂斯和华盛顿的其他大厨也有交往。他的餐厅帮助他在《GQ》杂志评选的2012年华盛顿50位最具影响力人物名单中名列第49位。他的顾客包括一些身居要职的本地人，如约翰·波德斯塔的哥哥托尼·波德斯塔(Tony Podesta)。两人算是泛泛之交。阿莱方蒂斯和布鲁克在五年前分手。后者是网站“美国媒体事务”(Media Matters for America)的创始人，会追踪对克林顿一家持批评态度的媒体报道，并致力于揭露保守派媒体中的不实信息。
The misinformation campaign began when John Podesta’s email account was hacked and his emails were published by WikiLeaks during the presidential campaign. Days before the election, users on the online message board 4Chan noticed that one of Podesta’s leaked emails contained communications with Alefantis discussing a fundraiser for Clinton.
这场假新闻运动始于大选期间约翰·波德斯塔的电子邮件账户被入侵一事，此后电子邮件被维基解密(WikiLeaks)公开。在离选举只剩几天时，在线论坛4Chan上的用户注意到，波德斯塔遭到泄露的其中一封电子邮件包含和阿莱方蒂斯讨论为克林顿举办一场募捐活动的内容。
The 4Chan users immediately speculated about the links between Comet Ping Pong and the Democratic Party. Some posited the restaurant was part of a larger Democratic child trafficking ring, which was a theory long held by some conservative blogs. That idea jumped to other social media services such as Twitter and Reddit, where it gained momentum on the page “The-Donald.” A new Reddit discussion thread called “Pizzagate” quickly attracted 20,000 subscribers.
4Chan上的用户立即开始猜测“彗星乒乓”餐厅和民主党的关系。一些人设想该餐厅是一个更大的民主党贩卖儿童团伙——这是一些保守派博客长期坚持的一个理论——的一部分。这种想法迅速传播到了Twitter和Reddit等社交媒体上。在Reddit的“The-Donald”页面上，其势头越来越强劲。Reddit上一个名叫“披萨门”的新讨论串很快便吸引了两万名用户。