SHANGHAI — China’s art auction market suffered a sharp downturn in 2012, amid a global slump in demand for Chinese art, fueled in part by concern about the many fakes that are offered for sale.
上海——中国的艺术品拍卖市场在2012年遭遇急剧下滑，全球各地对中国艺术品的需求出现大幅下降，部分是因为人们担心很多拍品都是赝品。
A year after reporting record revenue, auction houses in mainland China reported that sales fell nearly 50 percent in 2012 from $8.2 billion to about $4.4 billion, according to a study released Wednesday by the China Association of Auctioneers in Beijing and the New York-based art market information company Artnet.
位于北京的中国拍卖行业协会和纽约的艺术品市场信息公司Artnet周四公布的研究显示，在报告创纪录收入一年之后，中国内地的拍卖行报称2012年的拍卖成交额下跌了将近50%，从82亿美元（约合498亿元人民币）降至约44亿美元。
The study did not offer an explanation for the sharp drop in demand, but art dealers and analysts say a Chinese government crackdown on art objects entering and exiting the country, as well as growing concerns about fakes hit the market hard last year, just as the Chinese economy showed signs of slowing.
该研究没有解释需求剧降的原因，艺术品商人及分析人士则称，去年，就在中国经济出现放缓迹象的时候，中国政府对艺术品进出国境的严厉限制，以及人们对赝品日渐增长的担忧，对艺术品市场造成了重创。
The study found that there was a sell-through rate at auction houses in mainland China of nearly 50 percent, meaning that about half of the lots offered failed to sell.
该研究发现，中国内地拍卖行的成交率只有将近50%，意味着大约一半的拍品未能售出。
The sale of Chinese art and antiques has rebounded modestly this year, executives say, aided by an expanding group of wealthy collectors, particularly from mainland China.
业内高管表示，得益于富裕藏家队伍的不断扩大，特别是中国内地富裕藏家的增加，中国艺术品及古董的销售在今年出现了小幅回升。
There are now nearly 600 auction houses selling Chinese art and antiques globally, including those in mainland China. And the bulk of their revenue comes from modern and classical painting and calligraphy, particularly the works of painters like Qi Baishi, Fu Baoshi and Li Keran.
全球现有将近600家出售中国艺术品和古董的拍卖行，其中包括中国内地的拍卖行。拍卖行大部分收入来自现代及古典绘画及书法作品，特别是齐白石、傅抱石、李可染等画家的作品。
In 2012, for instance, Li Keran’s painting, “Mountains in Red,” sold for about $40 million.
例如，2012年，李可染的画作《万山红遍》以大约4000万美元的价格成交。
The study said Chinese auctions continued to be plagued by sales in which the bidder sometimes reneges on making full payment for a work long after making the winning bid. Two years ago, about 60 percent of items were paid in full or partly paid for, while about 40 percent had not been paid for at all.
前述研究称，中国的拍卖行业仍然饱受困扰，因为竞标人有时会在竞拍成功很久之后拒付作品全款。两年前，大约有60%的拍品收到了全额或部分付款，而40%左右的拍品根本没收到付款。
Last year, the study said, slightly more than two-thirds of the expensive items sold at auctions were paid in full or in part by May 2013, while about a third had not been paid for at all.
该研究称，略多于三分之二的去年成交的贵重拍品在2013年5月前收到了全额或部分付款，没收到任何付款的拍品则占三分之一左右。
In a statement on its web site, Poly Auction said it had suffered one of the worst non-payment rates for expensive artworks among the major auction houses in recent years due to factors such as the economic slowdown.But it said it wanted to cooperate with the rest of the industry to fix the market’s problems.
保利拍卖公司(Poly Auction)在其网站发表声明称，近年来，由于经济衰退等因素，其贵重艺术品的拒付率在大型拍卖行当中较为突出。但保利表示，希望能与拍卖行业的其他公司进行合作，共同纠正拍卖市场的问题。
“We would like to work with all parties jointly to improve and perfect the Chinese art auction market to ensure the long-term healthy development,” it said.
该公司说，“对于这些问题，我们愿与有关各方本着积极的态度，共同改进和完善，确保中国艺术品拍卖市场长期健康发展。”
It said the situation was already gradually improving. Nevertheless, in its statement, Poly said association statistics that suggested only about a third of its 2011 sales were completed were misleading.
保利表示，情况已经在逐渐好转。不过，该公司还在声明中称，协会数据称公司2011年成交额当中只有三分之一左右得到实际履行，这个结论具有很大的误导性。
“Some customers require confidentiality on progress of their payment settlement, while some customers agree to pay in installments,” it said. “Thus there are serious discrepancies between the reported figures and the actual situation.”
该公司说，“保利拍卖基于中国法律规定及国际惯例，依客户要求对重要拍品的结算信息予以保密，加之同意一些客户分期付款，报道所称数字与实际情况严重不符。”