SHANGHAI — China’s money market rates rose sharply on Thursday, increasing short-term borrowing costs and threatening to recreate the liquidity squeeze that rattled markets in June.
上海——本周四，中国货币市场利率飙升，拉高了短期借贷成本，并且带来了重现今年6月重创市场的钱荒的风险。
To ease concerns, China’s central bank extended trading on the interbank market on Thursday by 30 minutes.
为了缓解忧虑，中国的央行将周四的银行间市场交易时间延长了30分钟。
After the market’s close, the bank released a statement on its microblog site saying it had recently injected liquidity into the market.
闭市后，央行在其官方微博上发表声明称，近期已向市场适度注入流动性。
The sharp rise in interest rates comes at a time when the central government is trying to push through reforms that would force financial institutions to be more efficient and market-oriented.
利率飙升之时，正值中央政府努力推行改革之际。这些改革将迫使金融机构提高效率和更市场化。
For years, the government has kept rates unusually low, helping feed an investment binge that some economists warn has caused inflation and led to overinvestment in property, infrastructure and other industries.
多年来，中国政府人为地将利率保持在超乎寻常的低水平，助长了投资热。一些经济学家警告，这种投资热导致了通胀，并且使得地产和基础设施等行业出现过度投资。
The government is trying to wean speculators off cheap money by driving up interest rates.
现在，通过推高利率，政府正努力要让投机者不去依赖低息贷款。
In a sign that this is beginning to take place, short-term borrowing costs have jumped this year in the interbank market.
有迹象表明这一点正在发生，那就是今年的银行同业拆借利率猛增。
The central bank sometimes steps in to keep the market operating smoothly, but it has signaled this year that the market will play a greater role.
央行间或出手干预，以维持市场的平稳运行，不过它今年已发出信号，市场将起到更为重要的作用。
Louis Kuijs, an economist with the Royal Bank of Scotland who is based in Hong Kong, said the Chinese government wanted tighter monetary policy and higher rates to rein in credit growth and bank leverage. But he said the central bank’s effort to inject liquidity into a jittery market was necessary.
苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)驻香港的经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)称，中国政府希望用偏紧的货币政策及较高的利率来限制信贷增长和银行杠杆化。不过，他也表示，央行往紧张不安的市场中注入流动性是必要之举。
“This should help reduce tightness and calm the market,” he said.
“这应该会有助于纾缓紧张并安抚市场，”他说。