Salman Rushdie was a teenager when he first learned that his last name was invented rather than inherited.
萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)是在少年时代得知，自己的姓氏并非承自先祖，而是凭空捏造的。
“My grandfather wasn’t called Rushdie,” he said. “My father just made it up. He made a really good choice. It came from his interest in the philosophy of Ibn Rushd.”
“我的祖父不叫拉什迪，”他说。“是我父亲编的。这是个相当不错的选择。源于他对伊本·鲁世德(Ibn Rushd)哲学的兴趣。”
Later Mr. Rushdie came to share his father’s obsession with the work of Ibn Rushd (pronounced Roosht), a 12th-century philosopher better known in the West as Averroes. Now, he has made him a central character in his new novel, “Two Years Eight Months and Twenty-Eight Nights.”
后来拉什迪也和父亲一样，迷上了这位在西方一般称“阿威罗伊”(Averroes)的12世纪哲学家。现在他更成了拉什迪的新小说《两年八月二十八夜》(Two Years Eight Months and Twenty-Eight Nights)的中心人物。
The novel opens in 12th-century Spain, where the philosopher has unwittingly fallen in love with a beautiful woman named Dunia, who is actually a jinnia (or genie) in disguise. The story jumps to New York City in the near future, as Ibn Rushd and Dunia’s distant descendants discover they have special powers, like the ability to shoot lightning bolts from their fingertips or turn tree branches into gold. (Some of their superpowers are more like minor inconveniences: A gardener named Geronimo hovers a few inches off the ground, but is otherwise fairly average).
小说始于12世纪的西班牙，哲学家不知不觉爱上了一位名叫杜妮雅的美人，她其实是个隐匿了原形的精灵。故事一跃来到不远的未来，在纽约市，伊本·鲁世德和杜妮雅的后代子孙们纷纷发现自己有了特异的能力，比如指尖射出闪电，把树枝变成金子（有的超能力似乎更像是小麻烦：一位名叫杰罗尼莫的园艺师可以飘浮在离地几寸的空中，除此之外就没什么本事了）。
In the final chapters, the supernatural beings take part in an epic war being fought by powerful genies over the future of humanity, leading to an action-packed climax that reads in places as if Kafka had written a blockbuster superhero movie.
在最后一章，这些超自然的存在投入到一场史诗战争中，一些威力无边的精灵为人类的未来而战，最终发展到一个极为火爆的高潮场面，个别地方读起来仿佛卡夫卡为超级英雄大片写的剧本。
During a recent interview at his publisher’s office in Midtown Manhattan, Mr. Rushdie spoke about his love of science fiction, his failed television series, being on Al Qaeda’s hit list and his falling out with the novelist Peter Carey. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
他的出版商的办公室里接受了采访，谈起了他对科幻小说的热爱，失败的电视剧集，自己成为基地组织刺杀目标，以及他和小说家彼得·凯里(Peter Carey)的分歧。以下是该访谈的节选。
Q. This novel shares some of the themes you’ve explored in the past, like the conflict between religious belief and reason, but, stylistically, it feels looser, mashing up medieval philosophy and Islamic mythology with an almost Marvel Comics-like science fiction universe. What inspired you to create these superhero characters and a “War of the Worlds”-style fantasy plot?
问：这部小说中有一些以前探究过的主题，比如宗教信仰和理性之间的冲突，但在风格上它的感觉要更松散，像是在一个近乎漫威(Marvel Comics)式的科幻小说世界里，把中世纪哲学和伊斯兰神话掺混到一起。是什么启发你创造出这些超级英雄人物，以及这种“世界大战”(War of the Worlds)式的魔幻情节？
A. Science fiction is where I started out, really. When I was a kid, I was a complete addict of science fiction. It was one of my earliest interests as a writer, and I’ve just taken a long time to circle back around to it. It was also a reaction against writing my memoir. I’d spend two or three years trying really hard to tell the truth, and by the end, I was sick of the truth — enough truth, let’s make some [expletive] up.
答：其实我一开始是写科幻的。小时候我是彻底的科幻迷。这是我最早的写作兴趣之一，只是经过很长时间，现在又绕回来了而已。另外这也是对写回忆录的一种逆反。有两三年的时间我一直努力写出真相，到最后我已经非常厌烦真相——受够了，咱们来[脏话]编点什么吧。
Q. What was the idea that gave rise to this story?
问：最初是什么促使你去写这个故事？
A. I had Mr. Geronimo the gardener and his detachment from the earth. The thing that made me want to write it was the idea that he would only be half an inch off the ground. Flying up in the sky, that’s not interesting, but to be half an inch off the ground, which is just as big a breach of the law of gravity — it’s funnier.
答：我想到了离地的园艺师杰罗尼莫先生。让我产生写作念头的是他的这种离地，只是飘起那么半寸。在天上飞，没什么稀奇的，但只是离地半英寸，对万有引力定律的藐视却分毫不减——这就更好玩了。
Q. One of the narrative threads in the novel has to do with the centuries-old philosophical debate over reason versus faith, which you bring to life by having powerful jinn wreak havoc on the world, upending the laws of physics. Why was fantasy a good vehicle to illustrate these abstract ideas?
问：小说的其中一条叙事线索，涉及几个世纪前关于理性与信仰的哲学辩论，你通过让强大的精灵毁灭世界，颠覆物理定律来重现那场辩论。为什么会想到通过魔幻的形式来阐明这些抽象理念呢？
A. It connected in my mind to this idea I had about living in a world where the rules are breaking down, where the world is changing so fast in all directions that a lot of people have a sense of bewilderment. You don’t actually know what the rules are anymore, and you have a sense that maybe there are other people much younger than you who do know what the rules are, and are thereby make billions by inventing, what, Snapchat? What the hell is that? That, apparently, is worth billions. Novels are worth, if you’re lucky, a six-figure sum.
答：它和我脑子里的一个想法联系起来了，我在想，生活在一个崩坏无序的世界里会是什么样，这个世界在向各个方向快速地变化着，很多人感到困惑。你已经不知道规则是什么，你感觉也许有一些比你年轻很多的人知道规则是什么，因此还发明了Snapchat之类的东西，赚到一大笔钱。Snapchat是什么鬼东西？显然，是一个价值几十、几百亿的鬼东西。而小说值多少？运气好的能达到六位数。
Q. Do you use Snapchat?
问：你用Snapchat吗？
A. No. I know that it exists.
答：不用，但我知道有这个东西。
Q. You’re an outspoken atheist, but in your fiction, at least, you seem to have a soft spot for mythology and polytheistic religions.
问：你毫不掩饰自己是个无神论者，但至少从小说里可以看到，你似乎对神话和多神教是网开一面的。
A. Ideas are interesting to me, and religions are a place where ideas have been very subtly embodied for thousands of years. All literature started as sacred literature.
答：我是对想法感兴趣，几千年来宗教一直在用很微妙的方式呈现想法。一切文学都始于宗教文学。
Q. Your novel is a homage of sorts to the myth of Scheherazade, who told stories every night to delay her execution, and the title is a riff on “One Thousand and One Nights.” It struck me that you have experienced the inverse of the Scheherazade story, after being a target for execution for your novel “The Satanic Verses.”
问：你的小说是对山鲁佐德传奇的某种致敬，她为了拖延自己的死期每晚讲一个故事，书名也是在仿“一千零一夜”。我意识到，你的经历和山鲁佐德的故事正相反，你在写了《撒旦诗篇》后成为处决的目标。
A. Yes, the anti-Scheherazade. My life is what it is, and clearly it affects what I think. Scheherazade is one of the great authorless figures. No one has any idea who made her up, so it’s easy to think she made herself up. But there she is, one of the immortal characters of literature, and how can you not fall in love with somebody who civilizes savage people by telling them stories?
答：是的，它是反山鲁佐德的。我的人生就是这样，显然它影响了我的思考。山鲁佐德是一个伟大的无作者人物。没人知道她是谁的造物，所以大家很容易会觉得是她自己编造出自己。但她是文学史上不朽的人物之一，一个人能靠讲故事去晓喻野蛮人，很难不爱上她。
Q. A few years ago, you were working on a science fiction series for Showtime. What happened to that?
问：几年前你为Showtime写了一个科幻剧集。后来怎么样了？
A. That died, like all these things do. The thing that I had been developing for Showtime was also a kind of a parallel world story, in which it was our earth and another variation of it, and they somehow come into contact with each other. Anyway, that didn’t happen, but I had been thinking a lot about these parallel world ideas, and how do you make that happen, and what are the complications of it. So I now see that as having been interesting preparatory work for the way this book turned out.
答：和很多事情的下场一样，没了。当时我给Showtime想的是某种平行世界的故事，里面有我们的地球，还有一个地球的变种，两个世界发生了接触。总之事情没成，但是这些平行世界的构思我想了很久，怎么实现它，它的麻烦在什么地方。我现在觉得，那段经历对现在这本书是挺有意思的功课。
Q. Will you take another pass at writing for film or television, maybe reviving the science fiction plot for another network?
问：会不会再尝试给电影或电视写点什么，也许换一个电视网，让这个科幻故事复活？
A. I’ve got the rights back because I’ve got a good lawyer. But I’m not sure the creative juice is there anymore. I’ve already used that idea.
答：我把版权拿回来了，因为我有个好律师。但是我觉得这东西在创作上已经没什么油水。我已经把那个想法用掉了。
Q. I hear you watch “Game of Thrones.”
问：听说你在看《权力的游戏》？
A. I like the girl with the dragons, and I like the short guy, and I want them to win.
答：我喜欢那个跟龙在一起的女孩，我喜欢那个小矮子，我希望他们赢。
Q. You were very vocal in supporting the PEN American Center’s decision to honor the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo this year, something that some other writers, including Peter Carey and Francine Prose, opposed, because they said the magazine perpetuated bigoted ideas. Were you surprised to be on the other side of an ideological divide from some of your peers?
答：你对今年美国笔会中心(PEN American Center)颁奖给法国讽刺杂志《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的决定表达了强烈的支持，包括彼得·凯里和弗朗辛·普罗斯(Francine Prose)在内的一些作家则不以为然，因为他们认为这份杂志是在弘扬偏执的理念。之前有没有想到，会和自己的一些同侪站在意识形态对立面？
A. I could not believe it. Still can’t believe it. So many writers who are old friends. It was really shocking. Now, of course, the lasting damage is in some of those friendships. I haven’t seen any of them, nor have any of them been in touch with me. I felt a sense of injustice, that these people were executed for drawing pictures. If we’re a free-speech organization, how can we not be on their side? For Mr. Carey to say to The New York Times that he didn’t see it as a free-speech issue, I thought, “What?”
答：我感到难以置信。至今还是这样。很多作家是我的老朋友。我非常震惊。到如今仍在被这件事伤害着的，当然就是那些友谊了。他们后来一直没跟我见面，也没跟我联系。我觉得这是不公正的，这些人因为画画而被处死。如果我们是一个言论自由组织，那怎么可以不跟他们站在一起？凯里先生对《纽约时报》说，他不认为此事关乎言论自由，我心想，“你说什么呢？”
Q. He’s a friend of yours, right?
问：他是你的朋友？
A. Well, was. It’s bewildering and saddening.
答：曾经。实在是令人费解和痛心。
Q. You’ve been living in the open for years after going into hiding following the fatwa, but you’ve gotten threats from other extremist groups more recently. In 2013, Al Qaeda’s magazine Inspire put you on its hit list, along with other public intellectuals they view as hostile to Islam.
问：在教令颁发后你躲过一段时间，而后就开始毫不遮掩的生活了，但是直到最近你还是会遭到极端组织的威胁。2013年，基地组织的杂志《激励》(Inspire)把你列入刺杀名单，还有一些他们认为对伊斯兰教怀有敌意的公共知识分子也在其中。
A. A lot of magazines put me on lists. I think I’m in more danger from n+1 [the literary magazine] than from Al Qaeda.
答：很多杂志把我列入各种名单。要我说，[文学杂志]《n+1》对我构成的威胁，要比基地组织严重的多。
Q. The United States is on the brink of possibly ending sanctions against Iran and opening up diplomatic relations. As someone who was given a death sentence by the country’s religious leaders, how do you feel about this development?
问：美国可能即将解除对伊朗的制裁，重启外交关系。作为被这个国家的宗教领袖判过死刑的人，你对此有什么看法？
A. Truthfully, I really do not know what I think. I am quite conflicted about it. On the one hand, the last decade or so show us that war hasn’t worked, so maybe try peace. The other argument is, we’re talking about Iran. These are, how shall I put it, unreliable people. I’m on that strange ground where I don’t quite know what I think. Which is all right — I’m a novelist. Fortunately I don’t have to rule the world.
答：说实话，我真不知道我怎么看。我的心情很矛盾。一方面过去这十来年我们已经看到，战争没有用，那么可能得试试和平。但另一方面，这可是伊朗啊。怎么说呢，那都是些靠不住的人。我现在处在一种奇怪的境地，不知道我是怎么想的。这没什么——我是写小说的。幸运的是我不用去统治世界。
Q. You have taken to Twitter to engage with your fans and occasionally trade barbs with critics. What appeals to you about it?
问：你选择用Twitter和你的书迷交流，偶尔还要跟评论家隔空对骂两句。这个平台是什么在吸引你？
A. I have very up and down feelings about Twitter. There are long periods where I can’t be bothered. I like it for bringing me information. And, of course, it’s useful to be able to tell people you just published a book, when there’s a million people following you. Then you look at Neil Gaiman, and then you begin to feel ashamed of just a million people. And then you get to the real enormous intellectuals of Twitter, you get to Justin Bieber and Kim Kardashian, and then you just feel like a worm. Just a million. There are times when I kind of agree with Jonathan Franzen’s view that you should just stay away from the stuff.
答：我对Twitter的看法是大起大落的。有很长一段时间，我在上面很自在。我喜欢它带给我的信息。另外当然还有出新书的时候，用它来通知大家，很好用，有一百万人在那里关注着你。然后你去看了尼尔·盖曼(Neil Gaiman)，你会觉得很丢脸，你才一百万。然后你又看到那些真正的大牌Twitter知识分子，看到贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)、金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)，你就觉得自己什么都不是。才一百万。有时候我觉得乔纳森·弗兰岑(Jonathan Franzen)说得挺对，应该远离这玩意。
Q. You’ve teamed up with other artists on various projects [including a sculpture with Anish Kapoor and a ballad with the band U2]. What appeals to you about working with artists in other mediums?
问：你跟很多艺术家有过各种各样的合作[包括和奥尼什·卡普尔合作了一座雕塑，和U2乐队合作了一首歌]。为什么会想和其他媒介的艺术家合作？
A. I don’t look for these collaborations. There was this very funny moment, just after U2 and I made that song. When it got out that U2 and I had collaborated, there was, like, five minutes when every British pop group thought, oh, Salman Rushdie, we could write a song with him.
答：我不是主动去找这些合作的。跟U2合作了那首歌后有一个非常好玩的瞬间。我跟U2合作的消息一传出，有那么五分钟全英国的流行乐队都在想，对呀，萨尔曼·拉什迪，我们可以跟他一起写首歌的。
Q. So, can we look forward to a One Direction album with Salman Rushdie?
问：那么，我们有没有机会听到一张One Direction和萨尔曼·拉什迪的合作专辑？
A. I’m open for offers. Talk to my agent, as they say.
答：我都可以考虑。用他们的话讲，有事找我经纪人。