PARIS —Ralph Lauren tipped back his head, gazing up to the cupola of gold-painted wooden squares above a semicircular mural of artists from throughout history.
巴黎——拉尔夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)仰起头，凝视着那幅著名的半圆形历史艺术巨匠群像，以及壁画上方的一片片描金嵌木。
“My father was a painter,” said Mr. Lauren, dressed in his signature leather jacket, fraying jeans and cowboy boots. “He painted houses when he was struggling with four children. He came from Russia, learned the craft and did murals on ceilings.
“我父亲曾是个画家，”劳伦说，他穿着自己标志性的皮夹克、磨损牛仔裤和牛仔靴，“他一边带着四个孩子，一边在墙上作画。绘制壁画的手艺来自他的故乡俄罗斯，他曾在那里在天花板上绘画。”
“I used to see him on a ladder that high,” continued the designer, pointing to the distant ceiling. “He would be standing up there and I would say, ‘Omigod!”’
“我曾经看着他就站在那么高的梯子上，”这位设计师指着高高的屋顶说，“他就站在那儿，而我总是发出‘天啊！’的惊叹。”
One of America’s most famous designers finds an emotional connection to stir his philanthropic instincts. Here, in the Amphithéâtre d’honneur at the heart of the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts, which Mr. Lauren has committed to restore, he thinks back across half a century.
这位美国最著名的设计师在巴黎被再次唤醒了做慈善的本能，在他出资修葺的巴黎高等艺术学院的半圆形演讲厅里，思绪回到了半个世纪前。
The designer, 73, recalls carrying paint pots for his dad, who decorated with marble-like swirls and simulated wood grain the walls of Mr. Lauren’s first apartment. It was in the Bronx in 1964, when he and his wife, Ricky, were just married.
这位73岁的设计师，回忆起他曾为父亲提着颜料罐，父亲用仿真大理石与木纹装饰劳伦第一间公寓的墙。那是1964年的布朗克斯，拉尔夫与妻子瑞琪(Ricky)新婚燕尔。
Later in this emotionally charged day, with his entire family around him, the designer, dressed in a classic tuxedo, opened an area among the school’s sprawling buildings for the first Ralph Lauren show in Paris. He offered his autumn 2013 collection — with a touch of the family’s Russian history in its rich embellishment and Cossack hats — to the cream of French society, from Princess Charlene of Monaco to Catherine Deneuve, and Charlotte Gainsbourg singing for entertainment.
而今，在这个令人心跳的日子里，在全家人的环绕下，这位设计师身着经典的短款礼服，在校园建筑群中的一片场地上，举办了第一场拉尔夫·劳伦巴黎时装秀。他为法国的时尚圈带来2013秋冬系列：华丽的装饰点缀、哥萨克毡帽……无一不体现他血液中的俄罗斯风情，在场的嘉宾包括摩纳哥公主夏琳(Charlene)和凯瑟琳·德纳芙(Catherine Deneuve)，著名歌手夏洛特·金斯伯格(Charlotte Gainsbourg)向来宾献唱。
In a meeting of minds with his son, David, executive vice president of the company, Mr. Lauren’s restoration of the amphitheater will not be limited to the surroundings of the historic frieze of 75 artists painted by Paul Delaroche from 1836 to 1841, but will try to make the little-used area come alive in the digital age.
在和他的儿子大卫，现任拉尔夫·劳伦品牌的执行总裁交谈中，我得知拉尔夫对半圆演讲厅的修葺并不局限于仅仅修复一幅由保罗·德拉罗什(Paul Delaroche)从1836到1841年绘制的包括75位艺术家肖像巨幅壁画，同时还要为这个被闲置已久的地方注入数码时代特有的新的活力。
“The amphitheater has always been central to the heartbeat of this institution, and all the great artists and thinkers came together to discuss ideas,” David Lauren said. “Our goal is to figure out how this is going to be part of the 2000s. By wiring this place, you will be able to share these ideas globally, whether you are in China or the United States, wherever you are in the world, you will be able to hear great ideas about the arts and culture.”
“半圆形演讲厅一直都是这所学院脉动的核心，所有杰出的艺术家和思想家都曾聚集在此分享灵感，”大卫·劳伦说，“我们的目标是为这里确立21世纪的发展目标。通过将其网络化，使那些优秀的创意和想法能被全球共享，无论你是在中国还是美国，还是世界上任何地方，你都可以聆听来自这里的关于艺术和文化的见解。”
Nicolas Bourriaud, director of the school, oversees both its complex artistic program and its buildings. That includes the entrance courtyard, where students on their lunch break sit beneath classical statues.
尼古拉斯·波利亚德(Nicolas Bourriaud)，巴黎艺术学院院长，负责了整个艺术项目和建筑的修葺。包括学院入口处的四方庭院，学生们在这里的古代雕塑下打发他们的午休时光。
Mr. Bourriaud described the school’s buildings themselves as a kind of encyclopedia, referring to the artists’ names, from Dürer and Van Dyck to Holbein and Rembrandt, carved in red stone in the glass-roofed central court.
波利亚德将这所学院的建筑形容为一本百科全书，在这里你会找到几乎所有伟大艺术家的名字，从丢勒(Dürer)、梵·戴克(Van Dyck)到伦勃朗(Rembrandt)，它们被镌刻在庭院玻璃顶中央广场中的一块红石上。
The amphitheater’s frieze, known as the Hémicycle, carries the same message of heritage, but with the artists shown grouped around the creators of the Parthenon, who are wrapped in white robes. The work was painted in a period when the classics were part of a general education.
半圆形演讲厅中的壁画“半圆议事厅”，传达了相同的信息，它描绘艺术史上的著名艺术家齐聚巴特农神庙，正中间是神庙的建造者们（建筑师菲迪亚斯[Phidias]、雕塑家伊克提诺斯[Ictinus]、与画家阿佩利斯[Apelles]，象征建筑-雕塑-绘画三位一体——译者注）。在这幅作品创作的时代，古典艺术被列为教育的重要组成部分。
Mr. Lauren famously started his career not in art school, but by selling neckties, with his personal dreams dashed by his boss telling him that “the world is not ready for Ralph Lauren.”
众所周知，劳伦先生的设计生涯并不是从艺术学院，而是从卖领带开始的，那时他的老板总是打击他的梦想，告诉他“世界还没有为拉尔夫·劳伦准备好呢”。
“I often wonder what it would have been like for me in an art school,” the designer said. “I probably never would have got in. I have looked at my own collection — the whole 45 years — to see what I didn’t do, what I missed. I consider that as a form of art, a form of expression that was mine. There is a vision; there is a story; there is a dream and an emotion.”
“我常常想，如果我进了艺术学院会怎么样呢？”这位设计师说，“也许我根本就不可能考进去。我纵观自己45年来的设计，看看有什么我还没做的，什么我漏掉了的。我把它们当做我的艺术形式，一种属于我的表达方式。里面有想象、故事、梦想和情感。”
Emotion is a key word in the Ralph Lauren lexicon. When a brain tumor sent him to the hospital in 1987 and he encountered an editor suffering from cancer, he remembered his own terror when his mother had an apparent health problem. The result was the creation of “Fashion Targets Breast Cancer,” an effort supported by the entire fashion industry; a cancer center in New York’s Harlem neighborhood; and the Pink Pony line of products sold to benefit cancer-fighting organizations.
情感是拉尔夫·劳伦字典里的关键词。1987年他因为脑瘤住院，遇到了一位身患癌症的编辑，使他记起了自己看到母亲患病时感到的恐惧。由此产生了“时装抗击乳腺癌”计划的想法，并立刻得到整个时装行业支持的行动，支持者还包括纽约哈勒姆区癌症中心，和为抗癌组织募捐的粉色小马系列产品慈善义卖。
Mr. Lauren’s deep feeling for the mythical American dream led him in 1999 to finance the restoration of the flag that inspired the national anthem, “The Star-Spangled Banner,” and is displayed at the Smithsonian Museum in Washington.
1999年，劳伦先生对于神话般的美国梦最深切的情感致使他资助了那面启发了国歌《星条旗》的创作，并在华盛顿的史密森尼博物馆演奏。
And it is his enthusiasm for Paris — which he expressed in an early visit by kissing the Arc de Triomphe — that has encouraged the current Beaux-Arts project. The initiative follows in 2010 the restoration of a 19th-century hôtel particulier on the Boulevard Saint-Germain that became the brand’s Paris store. Mr. Lauren received the Legion d’honneur the same year from then-President Nicolas Sarkozy.
拉尔夫·劳伦曾在一次到访巴黎时亲吻了凯旋门，以表达自己对巴黎的深厚感情，而这次对艺术学院的支持再次表达了这一点。2010年他出资修葺了一间位于圣日耳曼大道上的19世纪的酒店，后来成为拉尔夫·劳伦的巴黎门店。同年劳伦获得了由时任总统尼古拉斯·萨科奇(Nicolas Sarkozy)颁发的荣誉骑士勋章。
After that building had revealed its cellar of historical artifacts and bones, it became the brand’s European flagship store, with a restaurant that provided beef from the United States for the Beaux-Arts gala dinner last week.
修葺完毕的老酒店展现了它的历史工艺和价值，现在是拉尔夫·劳伦的欧洲旗舰店，建筑里还包括一间餐厅，供应来自美国的牛肉，上周在此举办了艺术学院项目的慈善晚宴。
Mr. Lauren’s love for Paris’s Left Bank is based, like so many of his dreams, on a world that no longer exists. Today, there are more likely to be luxury stores and international tourists than intellectual cafes filled by artists with flat berets or smoky dives that are home to earnest existentialists.
而劳伦对巴黎左岸的热爱，就像他的许多梦想一样，出于对一个已经逝去的世界的怀念。今天，那里只有众多奢侈品商店和世界各地的游客们，而不再是贝雷帽艺术家们聚集的知识分子咖啡馆，或是热忱的存在主义者们吞云吐雾，视为安乐窝的酒馆。
But here in the rambling art school, Mr. Lauren has found his spiritual home.
然而，在这熙熙攘攘的艺术校园里，劳伦再次找到了他的精神家园。
“When we toured the Beaux-Arts months ago,” David Lauren said, “we watched the students painting and to see them in these amazing locations, sitting on the ground with their charcoal, their pencils and their sketching — we were blown away. I think my father felt that this was the dream for an artist and what an opportunity it would be to some day allow people from around the world to come here, spend time here and learn.”
“几个月前我们一起参观了校园，”大卫·劳伦说，“看到学生们画画的样子，他们穿梭在那些美妙的建筑里，三三两两坐在地上，夹着炭笔、铅笔、画着草图、素描——我们被迷倒了。我想父亲意识到了那就是一个艺术家的梦想，而这个机会应该能让全世界的人都能分享，每个人都能到这里来逗留和学习。”
Ralph Lauren, who spent his brief time on this Paris trip visiting the Braque exhibition at the Grand Palais and the Alaïa exhibit at the Palais Galliera, said that he did not want to be lauded for his contribution to the Beaux-Arts.
拉尔夫·劳伦本人，在此行中将大部分时间都花在参观巴黎大皇宫的乔治·布拉克展与巴黎美术馆的阿拉亚(Alaïa)展上，说他并不希望因为艺术学院的项目而被过多地褒奖。
“I have never thought that the things I am going to do will be made public,” he said. “And I don’t like the word ‘philanthropy,’ because it separates me from the emotion of how and why I did things.”
“我从未没想过将自己做的这些事情过分曝光，”他说，“我也不喜欢‘慈善’这个词，因为它让人们看不到我做这一切的真正理由是出于感情。”