LAHORE, Pakistan — Assailed by jihadist attacks and the moral cudgels of religious conservatives, Lahore’s celebrated cultural vitality has waned somewhat in recent years. A famous kite-flying festival is no more; a performing arts festival vanished after being attacked; and music concerts take place in restricted circumstances.
巴基斯坦拉合尔——因为遭受圣战分子的攻击和宗教保守派人士的道德棍棒，拉合尔驰名的文化活力在近几年来有所减弱。著名的风筝节不再办了；一个表演艺术节在遭到袭击后消失了；而音乐会只能在受限制的情况下举行。
But last month, the city welcomed spring with a raucous new party — a celebration of books.
然而上个月（今年2月——译注），这座城市以一场喧闹的新聚会——文学节——迎来了春天。
Thousands of people crammed into a towering red brick building for the inaugural Lahore Literary Festival, flitting between sessions to hear, and meet, their heroes from Pakistan’s swelling firmament of novelists. It seemed as much a rock concert as a scholarly venue, and scuffles erupted as people pushed to gain entry.
上千人挤进一栋高耸的红砖建筑来参加首届拉合尔文学节。参加者在讲座之间飞奔，去聆听、瞻仰被他们奉为巴基斯坦不断扩大的小说家群体中的英雄们。文学节看上去既像是学术活动，又像是一场摇滚音乐会，由于人们想挤进会场，还发生了打架事件。
One star attraction was Mohsin Hamid, a Princeton-educated native of Lahore, whose new novel, “How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia,” has been published to critical acclaim. Wearing jeans and sneakers, he received a giddy welcome from a home crowd. There was swooning. One man stood up to say that he had come to Lahore specifically to emulate the sex and drug scenes in Mr. Hamid’s novels.
其中一位具有吸引力的明星是穆赫辛·哈米德(Mohsin Hamid)，他是在普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)受过教育的拉合尔本地人，他的新书《如何在崛起的亚洲发大财》(How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia)出版之后受到好评。他穿着牛仔裤和运动鞋出现在文学节上，受到了家乡群众令人眩晕的欢迎。还有人神魂颠倒。一位男子站起来说，他来拉合尔，就是为了模仿哈米德小说中描写的性和毒品的情节。
Mr. Hamid was not the only draw: even more esoteric discussions of poetry and writing, or academics cogitating over the country’s troubled trajectory, drew packed houses that surprised even veteran authors.
哈米德并不是文学节唯一受欢迎的。就连有关诗词和写作的更难懂的讨论、或是学者对巴基斯坦坎坷发展路程的深沉思考，也吸引了满屋子的听众，这让老作家们颇为吃惊。
“It was very exciting — the first time I’ve seen Beatlemania among literary groupies,” said William Dalrymple, a British historian who participated in several sessions. “Nobody was throwing knickers, but it was a higher degree of hysteria than I’ve ever seen. I felt we were being treated as rock stars.”
英国人威廉·达尔林普尔(William Dalrymple)是一名历史学家，他参加了几场讲座。他说，“活动非常令人兴奋，这是我第一次看到在文学迷中的类似披头士狂热的场景。虽然没人扔内裤，但狂热程度之高我前所未见。我感到我们被当成了摇滚明星。”
The festival came on the heels of a similarly well-attended literary event in Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city. Put together they tapped into a well of pent-up enthusiasm for cultural and political debate among young Pakistanis, and offered a glowing counterpoint to Pakistan’s more usual image of a country troubled by the forces of extremism.
此次文学节是在巴基斯坦最大城市卡拉奇的一次成功的文学活动之后举办的。这两次活动都让巴基斯坦年轻人被压抑的对文化和政治讨论的热情迸发出来，也为一个巴基斯坦更常见的形象提供了鲜明对照，该国常被看作是一个受极端主义势力困扰的国家。
“It was a vibrant and intellectual space,” said Faraz Ahmed, a 19-year-old finance student and aspiring author. “I’ve never been to anything like it.”
19岁的金融系学生法拉·艾哈迈德(Faraz Ahmed)渴望成为一名作家，他说，“这是一个充满活力和知识的空间。我以前从未参加过像这样的活动。”
Literary festivals are surging in popularity across South Asia. Since the first major event in Jaipur, India, in 2005, 30 other festivals have sprung up across India, with a handful more in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. Many test the boundaries of free expression.
文学节在南亚各国越来越受欢迎。自从2005年在印度斋浦尔的首次大型活动以来，30多个图书节在印度各地如雨后春笋般涌现，斯里兰卡、孟加拉国和尼泊尔也举办过几场。其中有多次检验了言论自由的极限。
Early this month in Myanmar, where the shackles of military rule are loosening, people flocked to hear Daw Aung San Suu Kyi at a new festival there. Last year controversy erupted at Jaipur after Muslim clerics prevented the author Salman Rushdie from speaking. This year, Jaipur organizers estimated at least 140,000 people attended over five days.
在3月初的缅甸，军政府统治的枷锁已经放松，在当地举办的一场新文化节里，人们成群结队地去倾听昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)的演说。去年，在斋浦尔图书节上，因穆斯林神职人员阻止作家萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)发言，曾发生争议。今年，斋浦尔的组织者估计，为时5天的活动吸引了至少14万人参加。
In Pakistan, the festivals are about more than books — they seek to become part of a national conversation about the direction of the country. Usually, public debate takes place on raucous television chat shows, which critics accuse of framing issues in a confrontational and divisive manner.
在巴基斯坦，文学节的讨论不仅限于图书，而是寻求成为有关国家未来的全国性讨论的一部分。通常，公开辩论以喧闹的电视谈话节目的形式进行，批评家指责那种形式把所辩论的问题置于过于对抗和分裂的框架之下。
The events at Karachi and Lahore offered a more considered take of the debate, mingling chat about nuclear weapons and the Afghan war with the intricacies of Urdu poetry. Some authors spanned the range: in one session Mohammed Hanif, author of the popular novel “A Case of Exploding Mangos,” discussed extrajudicial executions in western Baluchistan Province; in another he had the audience howling with laughter at his account of describing the imagined anal examination of a former military dictator, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq.
卡拉奇和拉合尔的活动，为辩论提供了发表经过更多思考的观点的场合，既有关于核武器和阿富汗战争的讨论，也有关于乌尔都语诗词微妙之处的阐述。一些作家还涉足不同的讨论。知名小说《爆炸芒果》(A Case of Exploding Mangos)的作者穆罕默德·哈尼夫(Mohammed Hanif)在一个场合讨论了有关西部的俾路支省法外处决的问题；在另一个场合，他对一名前军事独裁者穆罕默德·齐亚·哈克将军(Mohammad Zia ul-Haq)想象中的肛门检查的描述，博得了听众的哄堂大笑。
With its grand Mughal architecture and elegant colonial-era roads, Lahore is considered the cultural capital of Pakistan, with a thriving Sufi music, art and literary scene. Yet in recent years that vibrancy has been muted, to some degree, by violence.
拉合尔拥有雄伟的莫卧儿帝国(Mughal)建筑以及殖民地时期留下的优雅街道，这里被认为是巴基斯坦的文化中心，有着苏菲派音乐、艺术和文学的繁荣景象。然而近年来，这种活力有所减弱，在某种程度上是因为暴力。
A major performing arts festival was bombed by extremists in 2009, and has not taken place since. Basant, the great spring festival in which children fly kites in the streets while adults party on the rooftops, has ostensibly been banned over safety concerns, although some believe that pressure from conservatives also played a part.
一场主要的表演艺术节在2009年曾遭到极端分子的炸弹袭击，从那以后就再没举办过。巴桑特节(Basant)是一个大型的春季庆祝活动，其间孩子们会在街头放风筝，而成年人则在屋顶上聚会观看。这个节日遭到禁止，虽然表面上的原因是出于安全考虑，但一些人认为来自保守派的压力也起了一定作用。
“The excuse of the string was used to appease the conservative religious constituency,” said Najam Sethi, a veteran political commentator.
“风筝线只是借口，其实为的是平息保守派宗教选民的不满，”资深政治评论员纳贾姆·赛提(Najam Sethi)说。
The worrisome bout of sectarian bloodshed that has swept Pakistan this year lingered over both festivals. In Lahore, several speakers spoke movingly about the assassination of a Shiite doctor and his son in the city a week earlier. In Karachi, the buoyant mood was tempered by a devastating bomb attack that occurred mid-festival in the western city of Quetta, killing at least 84 Hazara Shiites — a terrible sectarian attack emulated last Sunday in Karachi itself, where a bombing claimed 45 lives in a Shiite neighborhood.
席卷了巴基斯坦的令人不安的宗派流血冲突的幽灵，也徘徊在今年的两次艺术节上空。在拉合尔，几名发言者动情地叙述了一名什叶派(Shiite)医生和他的儿子于一周前在这座城市被暗杀的经过。在卡拉奇，人们轻松的情绪，因西部城市奎达在艺术节期间发生了一次造成严重伤亡的炸弹袭击，而变得沉重。那次袭击导致84名哈扎拉族什叶派居民死亡；而且，袭击方式后来被人模仿，上周在卡拉奇制造了又一次可怕的宗派袭击，导致一个什叶派社区中45人被炸死。
For all that, the festivals were also a reminder of Pakistan’s considerable success in international literature.
尽管如此，这些艺术节还是让人认识到了巴基斯坦在国际文学领域的巨大成功。
Intizar Hussain, an 89-year-old Urdu language writer, has been shortlisted for this year’s Man Booker Prize — and for some in the audience, it offered something rare: a chance to celebrate the condition of being Pakistani.
89岁的乌尔都语作家依提扎·侯赛因(Intizar Hussain)已经入围了今年布克奖(Man Booker Prize)的最终候选人名单。对某些参加者来说，文学节提供了一次罕见的机会：一次为身为巴基斯坦人而庆祝的机会。
“You are a source of pride to Pakistan,” one elderly man told Mr. Hamid, the author, to loud applause. “You are sending the message that we are normal people, not terrorists.”
一名老者对作家哈米德说，“你是让巴基斯坦自豪的一个源泉。你在发出一个信息：我们是普通人，不是恐怖分子。”老者的话引起了一片掌声。
The festivals faced criticism, too. Critics said the festivals focus too much on English-language literature that is little understood by many of Pakistan’s 190 million people, who largely speak Urdu, Punjabi and other languages. In Lahore, in particular, the crowds largely came from the city’s small upper crust.
然而，文学节也面临一些批评。批评人士称，文学节太过于关注英语文学，而在巴基斯坦1.9亿人口中，许多人不懂英语，他们大多说乌尔都语、旁遮普语，或其他语言。尤其是在拉合尔，文学节的参加者主要来自城市中很小的上流社会群体。
Against that, the sizable crowds — up to 60,000 people between both festivals, according to the organizers — were testament to the growing penetration of English-medium education. While just one percent of Pakistanis were privately schooled in 1975, said Mosharraf Zaidi, head of the education-rights campaign Alif Ailaan, today at least one-third attend nongovernment schools.
作为对上述观点的反驳，两次文学节参加者数量之多（据组织者估计，共约有6万人），表明以英语为授课语言的教育在巴基斯坦正变得更为普及。教育权利运动阿利夫阿伊兰(Alif Ailaan)的负责人穆沙拉夫·扎伊迪(Mosharraf Zaidi)说，1975年时只有1%的巴基斯坦人在私立学校就读，今天至少有三分之一的国人就读于非政府学校。
At the lower end of the scale, though, education is in crisis — some 25 million Pakistanis between the ages of 5 and 16 are out of school, Mr. Zaidi added.
扎伊迪补充说，然而，教育危机正在社会阶层的底端发生，大约有2500万5岁到16岁的巴基斯坦青少年失学。
Attention will shift from prose to politics in the coming months, with elections expected in early May, and few believe that a few literary festivals can beat back the Taliban.
在接下来的几个月里，注意力将从文学转向政治，因为大选将在5月初进行；而且很少有人认为，几场文学节活动就可以击败塔利班(Taliban)。
Other forms of culture have taken a battering in recent years — several landmark movie theaters were torched during riots against an American-made film that denigrated the Prophet Muhammad last fall. In a country of mass illiteracy, high literature remains a minority concern.
近年来，其他形式的文化也遭受了重创：在去年秋季的诋毁先知穆罕默德的美国电影所引起的暴乱中，几家标志性的电影院被焚毁。在一个大多数人是文盲的国家，高雅的文学只为少数人所欣赏。
Yet, for two weeks in two cities, Pakistan’s book lovers delved into a world of words that, for all its turmoil, offered the chance of a different story.
尽管如此，在两座城市的两周中，巴基斯坦的图书爱好者们得以走进一个语言的世界，与该国动荡的现实相比，在那个世界中他们听到了一个不同的故事。