IT is 2013 and a posse of models is wheeling a giant birthday cake down the runway at Chanel. It celebrates with 30 flaming candles the years that Karl Lagerfeld has ruled over the iconic Paisian house.
这是2013年，一整队模特儿沿着香奈儿(Chanel)的T台推出来一个巨大的生日蛋糕。上面点着30根欢庆蜡烛，那是卡尔·拉格斐(Karl Lagerfeld)执掌这家巴黎圣像级时装品牌的年数。
In your dreams!
但你是在做梦！
There are two reasons why that scenario would never happen. First, Lagerfeld is the last person to look back or to vaunt his past achievements. His eyes and mind are fixed steadfastly on the future.
那种场面永远不会出现，有两个原因：首先，拉格斐是最不会回首过去和炫耀过往成就的人。他的眼界和心思一直都坚定不移地集中在未来。
Also, this most intelligent and cultured of designers knows the unpalatable truth: that a brand wants to celebrate its own heritage — not to applaud a transient designer, even if that faithful person has worked for the label for three decades.
其次，这位最有智慧和修养的设计师很明白一个残酷的真相：一个品牌只想歌颂它本身的传统，而不是为一位随时会离开的设计师喝彩，哪怕那个人已经忠诚地为这个品牌服务了三十年。
A new, commodified attitude reigns in the once genteel world of high fashion. Loyalty, discretion and respect for the artistic temperament of designers are values that have all but disappeared now that the concept of each fashion house as a “family” has mostly vanished. Instead, there is a cut-throat, market-driven industry, with mutual distrust rife between fashion houses, their chief executives and their designers. And, in this new atmosphere, creatives and managers alike find themselves in difficult positions.
高端时尚曾经属于上流社会，如今正被一种新的商业化思维所统治。忠诚、审慎和对于设计师艺术气质的尊重，现在已是一种近乎消失的价值观念，每家时尚品牌是一个“家庭”的概念已经基本绝迹。取而代之的，是一个你死我活的市场主导产业，在所有的时尚品牌以及它们的管理者和设计师之间，都充斥着对彼此的不信任。而在这样的氛围下，创意人和管理者们都同样身处困难的境地。
Faced with the near-impossible task of churning out eight or more collections a year, designers have to submit their once cast-iron authority and control to a “team.” And however good the relationship, the executives have to bow to the pressure to produce.
面对着每年要固定产出8个以上系列这样几乎不可能的任务，设计师必须将他们曾经拥有的绝对权威和控制权交给一个“团队”。而即使关系再好，员工们还是要向产出产品的压力低头。
The result is that designers today are no longer the heart and soul of their brands. They have become chattels, to be hired and fired — and can even find themselves cast out of the house that bears their name.
结果是，如今设计师们已不再是品牌的核心和灵魂。他们变成了企业财产，可以随时被雇用，随时被炒掉——甚至可能会被逐出挂着他们名字的时尚品牌。
There are exceptions: At Lanvin, for example, the designer Alber Elbaz seems to have a fruitful relationship with the brand’s owner, Shaw-Lan Wang, a Chinese publisher who has allowed her protégé to develop at his own pace over the last decade.
当中会有例外：比如，在Lanvin，设计师阿尔伯·艾尔巴茨(Alber Elbaz)似乎就和品牌拥有者、中国出版商人王效兰(Shaw-Lan Wang)有着很不错的关系。过去十年，王效兰一直允许她这位下属按自己的节奏来发展这个品牌。
But the overall message for this new millennium is: The creator is for now, the brand is forever.
不过，在这个新千年纪元，普遍的信条都是：创作者是一时的，品牌是永恒的。
The big conglomerates or global investors know that, while within the fashion world the designer Christopher Bailey is synonymous with Burberry, and Lagerfeld is absolutely identified with Chanel, that is unlikely to be the case in emerging markets. In the Far East — especially China — marketing is constructed around the brand name. The name Salvatore Ferragamo draws interest — even though the famous shoemaker died over half a century ago. The focus is never going to be on Massimiliano Giornetti, the company’s current artistic director, who has worked for Ferragamo for the past 12 years.
大型联合企业和全球投资者们都明白，虽然在时尚世界中，设计师克里斯托弗·贝利(Christopher Bailey)就等同于巴宝莉(Burberry)，而拉格斐便是香奈儿的绝对同义词，但在新兴市场，状况不太会是如此。在远东——尤其是中国——市场营销是围绕着品牌名字进行的。萨尔瓦多·菲拉格慕(Salvatore Ferragamo)的名字就是能吸引人们的注意，尽管这位著名的鞋匠已经去世超过半个世纪。而人们的视线永远不会聚焦在该公司的现任艺术总监马西米兰诺·乔尼蒂(Massimiliano Giornetti)身上，哪怕他在过去12年一直为菲拉格慕品牌工作。
Designers are now seen as commodities, brought in to revive flailing houses and to be disposed of when a fresher name comes along. The most appropriate analogy might be with professional sports, where players are bought and sold regardless of their country of origin.
设计师现在也被视为商品，被引进来，是为了让衰败的品牌重生，然后在新的人才涌现时被清除掉。最恰当的类比可能是职业体育，在这个行业里，运动员无分出生国籍，被买进卖出。
Is it wise to treat creative people — essentially artists with cloth — as commodities?
把创意人士——实质上就是指时尚艺术家——当成商品来看待，算是明智之举吗？
The case of John Galliano, who devoted some of the best years of his fashion life to Christian Dior (while his own LVMH-backed brand was treated more as a “danseuse,” or plaything), started off a round of soul-searching in the high fashion universe. Under intense pressure to produce at least eight full collections a year, Galliano — like so many other artists — reached for sustenance and oblivion. In court for unpardonable anti-Semitic remarks, which cost him his job at Dior in 2011, the designer admitted to alcohol abuse.
约翰·加利亚诺(John Galliano)将他时尚生涯当中一些最好的年月奉献给了克里斯汀·迪奥(Christian Dior)，而他自己由路威酩轩(LVMH)资助的品牌则更多地被当作是“伴舞”，或者说玩物。他的例子在高端时尚界勾起了一段为时尚艺术“寻找灵魂”的探讨。在每年至少须推出八个完整系列的压力下，加利亚诺也像其他许多艺术家一样，寻求能持续生存的路线，却渐渐被遗忘。2011年，他不可饶恕的反犹太人言论令他失去了迪奥的工作，在法庭上为指控作供时，这名设计师承认自己酗酒。
Within the fashion world there are many other open secrets about drug and alcohol addiction. Without the support of a “family” — actual or composed of loyal friends — the designers are sent off to rehab or may just quietly leave. Those who stay the course find their creative time whittled down by the need to perform at international trunk shows, at global gala events and museum displays. And they are now asked to connect with fans (read: potential customers) via Twitter or Facebook.
在时尚界，关于毒品和酗酒，有许多公开的秘密。而如果没有一个“家族”——真正有血缘的家族或者是一圈忠诚的朋友——的支持，设计师们就会被打发到戒毒所，或者就那样默默地离开。那些能坚持下来的，会发现他们用于创作的时间会渐渐萎缩，因为他们需要在全球各地举办客户专场时装秀，以及各种庆典活动和博物馆展览。现在他们还会被要求通过Twitter或Facebook与粉丝（美其名曰“潜在顾客”）交流互动。
Leading designers demand or request to be in control of advertising and image. Yet the truth is that however much they try to keep control, there are likely to be racks of small leather goods churned out for duty-free shops in the brand’s name. And even if the designer wants to focus on clothing, the company is more interested in the lucrative handbag market.
顶尖设计师们会要求或请求掌握广告和形象的控制权。然而真相却是，无论他们如何努力试图掌控局面，还是很可能有一批接一批的小型皮具在品牌的名义下被生产出来，在免税店中摆卖。即使设计师想要将重点放在衣服上，公司还是会对高利润的手提包市场更感兴趣。
The sense of distrust and fear of being discarded is a two-way problem, and there is a reason for corporate masters to be wary of identifying the brand via its current designer. He or she might be lured away by promises of money or an investment to launch an own-label brand. That is what happened in 2001, when Alexander McQueen was plucked from Givenchy after five years with the brand owned by the luxury group LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton. He then joined a rival luxury company, PPR, which helped him develop his own business. Balenciaga (owned by PPR, which also has in its stable Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent) is facing its own upheaval this winter, as the designer Nicolas Ghesquière separates from the brand with which he has been so closely identified since 1997 — at least within the fashion universe.
这种不信任感和害怕被抛弃是一个双方面的问题，而对于以现任设计师来定义品牌，企业主们保持谨慎态度也是有原因的。设计师可能会受到金钱待遇的诱惑，或者被承诺投资创办一个属于他（她）自己的品牌，从而被挖走。2001年就发生过这样的事，当时亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)在为奢侈品企业酩悦·轩尼诗-路易·威登集团(LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton)旗下的品牌纪梵希(Givenchy)服务五年之后被挖走。他加盟了竞争对手的奢侈品企业巴黎春天(PPR)，该企业帮助他开创了他自己的品牌事业。今年冬天，巴黎世家（Balenciaga，与古驰[Gucci]和伊夫圣罗兰[Yves Saint Laurent]同属PPR旗下）的设计师尼古拉·盖斯奇埃尔(Nicolas Ghesquière)与公司分道扬镳，公司随之出现动荡，因为自1997年以来人们一直把尼古拉和这个品牌紧密地想到一起——至少在时尚业界内是这样。
As the heads of the famous 20th-century fashion houses retired or passed away, brands like Chanel, Dior and Valentino have had to morph into corporate employers looking out for the most powerful designer currently on offer in order to enhance their image.
随着20世纪著名时尚品牌的领头人物陆续退休或者过世，像香奈儿、迪奥和华伦天奴(Valentino)这样的品牌也不得不演变成企业经营雇主，寻找它们能够请到的最有影响力的设计师，以此来提升自己的形象。
The change did indeed start with Chanel three decades ago when Lagerfeld and his success became the template for all the many designers who subsequently took over dusty houses and attempted a spring cleaning.
这种改变确实是从三十年前的香奈儿开始的，拉格斐的成功，成为了后来许多接管陈旧时装店继而妙手回春的设计师们的范例。
In truth, there have been almost as many flops as success stories. For example, the house of Emanuel Ungaro has had a run of designers (yet another new one starts next season) since the founding father of the company retired in 2005.
事实上，失败的例子几乎和成功的故事一样多。比如伊曼纽尔·温加罗(Emanual Ungaro)的时装品牌，自从公司创始人在2005年退休之后，就更换过一连串设计师，下个季度还将迎来下一个。
There is no guarantee that he, or any other designer behind a big brand, will stay indefinitely.In fashion, as with sports managers, the executives are similarly transient. In the past, the long-serving fashion supporters — like Pierre Bergé at Yves Saint Laurent and Giancarlo Giammetti at Valentino — were often partners in life as well as in business.
没有人能保证他或者其他任何一个大品牌背后的设计师能够长久地待下去。在时尚界，管理人员就像体育界的领队一样如匆匆过客。在过去，时尚品牌幕后长期的决策人——比如皮埃尔·贝尔热(Pierre Bergé)之于伊夫圣罗兰，以及杰卡罗·吉米迪(Giancarlo Giammetti)之于华伦天奴——往往都是设计师的工作伙伴兼生活伴侣。
Now, executives at LVMH or PPR are more likely to come from product management. From 2004 to 2011, Gucci Group had as president and chief executive Robert Polet, who was dubbed “the ice-cream man” after arriving from Unilever’s frozen foods division.
现在，路威酩轩或者巴黎春天等企业的管理者，则更多可能是来自于产品经营领域。从2004到2011年，古驰集团(Gucci Group)就一直由罗伯特·波雷特(Robert Polet)担任总裁和首席执行官，他从联合利华(Unilever)的冷冻食品部门转投而来之后，就被冠上了“雪糕人”的外号。
Then, at Louis Vuitton, known as the “cash cow” of the luxury market, it was announced that at the end of 2012 Yves Carcelle, an executive who had led LV since 1990, would be replaced by the Spaniard Jordi Constans. The latter is a former executive vice president of fresh dairy products at Groupe Danone, and has already been dubbed the “yogurt man.”
然后，被认为是奢侈品市场“金钱机器”的路易威登，在2012年末就宣布了从1990年以来一直领导LV的执行官伊夫·卡塞勒(Yves Carcelle)，将会被西班牙人霍迪·康斯坦斯(Jordi Constans)取代。后者是达能集团(Groupe Danone)鲜乳制品业的前执行副总裁，并且已经被冠上了“酸奶人”的绰号。
This tendency for fashion brands to hire from the consumer goods industry suggests that luxury companies are hoping to follow the rapid expansion into emerging markets of groups like Danone, Procter & Gamble or Unilever over the past two decades.
时尚品牌这种雇用消费品产业人才的趋势，表明了奢侈品企业正希望跟随达能、宝洁(Procter & Gamble)或是联合利华等集团在过去二十年的步伐，迅速向新兴市场扩张。
It is easy to understand the logic of this change: Out go executives with an intimate and hands-on understanding of product; in come those with a grasp of global marketing.
这种转变背后的逻辑很好理解：那些对产品有着亲近切身体会的管理者们离开了，走进来的是那些能把握全球营销市场的人物。
Does anyone outside the immediate fashion world and its ever-widening circle of bloggers and Twitter feeders really care about these internal changes or register the pressure to perform that is put on current designers?
在时尚世界核心和日益庞大的博客和Twitter写手圈子以外，真的有人会在乎这些内部的变动吗？会有人真正理解现在设计师们身上的压力吗？
Those connected to fine art are quick to say that the same attitudes are prevalent in the art world: Creative people are put under savage pressure to produce for a fixed-date show; artists are obliged to be global ambassadors; a studio team produces product in the spirit of the creator.
与艺术圈有关联的人会很快地指出，这样的事在艺术圈也很盛行：创意人士都处于要在既定展览日期之前生产出作品的残酷压力之下；艺术家必须担当全球代言人；艺术品是依据创作者的精神进行创作，但由一个工作室团队来生产。
In fact, fashion itself, once an elitist pleasure, has become a commodity, whether as cheap clothing or as entertainment via celebrity red-carpet dressing and museum-style displays.
事实上，曾经作为一种精英娱乐的时尚本身，也已经变成了一件商品，要么是一件廉价的衣裳，要么是由明星的红地毯着装和博物馆式展览制造出来的各种娱乐。
Yet something has been lost in the fashion universe, as cynicism has replaced innocent enthusiasm.
然而随着单纯的热情渐渐被犬儒哲学所取代，时尚世界中的某种东西也已经丢失了。
Designers now know their worth and demand to be paid handsomely. They get first-class treatment from airplanes to limousines. They own fine homes and art collections.
设计师们如今知道他们的价值，并会要求优厚的待遇。他们从飞机到轿车，都会有一级的待遇。他们拥有华丽的住宅和艺术品收藏。
A luxurious lifestyle is what the designers earn — and maybe deserve — for dancing to the beat of their corporate employers, for hopping on a plane for a brand promotion without having the chance to absorb the country’s culture.
奢华的生活方式是设计师们辛苦挣来的——或许他们也值得拥有。他们按照企业雇主的节奏来表演，登上飞机去各地参与品牌推广，却不会有机会去领略所到国家的文化。
For some, the high-octane performance may be stimulating. For others, it is a crushing burden. Let’s hope that the commodification of this decorative art form that we call fashion does not exact too high a price in the end.
对于一些人来说，这种高强度的工作或许是刺激的。对另一些人来说，这是令人不堪重负的责任。但愿这种被我们称作“时尚”的装饰艺术形式，它的商品化最终不会制造出我们不能承受的代价。