Las Vegas — IMAGINE this: Before a job interview, you wait five hours in a room with your competition, but instead of business attire, you’re in bikinis and swimsuits, and prep with self-tanning lotion rather than hypothetical interview questions. When your turn comes to stand before the hiring panel, they ask you to walk, turn around, strike a pose for the camera. If you’re lucky, they might also ask about your past work experience. In the span of one minute, your interview is over. Exit stage right.
拉斯维加斯——想象一下：在面试之前，你与竞争对手在一个房间里要等五个小时，但你穿的不是正装，而是比基尼和泳装，正在擦美黑乳液，而不是针对可能出现的面试问题做准备。当轮到你去见招聘人员的时候，他们要求你走两步，转身，然后在相机前摆个姿势。幸运的话，他们可能还会问你之前的工作经历。不到一分钟，你的面试就结束了。然后从舞台右侧退出。
This process precedes what many consider the most coveted service positions in Las Vegas: working in casino pools and “beach clubs.” For three days every January, thousands of men and women pack hotel conference rooms for open calls, waiting up to eight hours in their swimsuits, hoping that during their short time with the panel, their look stands out. The few who make it aboard can easily be earning a six-figure income by the fall.
通过面试后，就可能获得很多人心中最让人垂涎的拉斯维加斯的服务工作：在赌场泳池和“海滩俱乐部”工作。在每年1月份中的三天时间里，数以千计的男男女女挤在酒店会议室准备参加面试，他们穿着泳装，最长要等待八个小时，希望能在短暂的面试期间脱颖而出。那些获得工作机会的人到秋天的时候很轻松就能获得六位数的收入。
Vegas’s hot summers are slow for tourism, but in the past decade, resorts have transformed the generic poolside experience into a lavish party scene. This has spawned a pool-industrial complex, where attendees, even guests who once enjoyed free entrance to a hotel pool, now pay into the thousands for general admittance per day, shaded cabanas and private bottle service at parties featuring daylong drinking and celebrity D.J.s.
拉斯维加斯炎热的夏季对于旅游业来说不是旺季，但在过去十年中，度假村将泳池边的平淡场景转变成奢华的派对现场。这催生了泳池产业，那些曾经可以免费进入酒店泳池的客人现在需要和其他参与者一起，支付数千美元，才能获得当天的普通入场券，进入荫蔽的凉亭，在全天供酒、有明星DJ助阵的派对上享受私人开瓶服务。
Inside the parties, a class structure prevails: The proletariat use towels to claim spots around the pool, the bourgeoisie reserve $1,000 cabanas and aristocrats fork over up to $15,000 for private bungalows equipped with televisions and temperature-controlled climates. Add in food and drink minimums, and these clubs, combined with their night-life counterparts, now surpass the longtime king of casino revenue — gambling.
在派对上，阶级分化非常盛行；最下层人士用毛巾在泳池周围占据位置，中层人士预定费用为1000美元的凉亭，而高端人群则支付最多1.5万美元，享受配有电视和温控系统的私人小屋。加上最低的食品及酒水消费，这些俱乐部和其他夜间娱乐活动算在一起，现在超过了常年来赌场收入的最大项目赌博。
For the tipped worker, the appeal is obvious. Checks can spike into the tens of thousands, and with an automatic 18 percent gratuity, few service jobs can compete. No wonder people fly in from around the country to apply for them.
对于获取小费的工作人员来说，其吸引力是显而易见的。账单会高达数万美元，其中18%的收入自动归服务人员所有，几乎没有其他服务工作能与之匹敌。怪不得人们乘飞机从全国各地赶来应聘。
But the interview process is not without controversy. Federal law forbids hiring, firing or segregating work based on gender, yet the Vegas pools seem to skirt these restrictions. That’s because while these employees serve drinks and tend bar, they are officially hired as “marketing models,” and those January interviews are “auditions” — language that allows resorts to disguise what in any other state would be blatant sex discrimination.
但这个面试过程并不是没有争议。联邦法律禁止根据性别聘用、解聘工作人员，分配工作，而拉斯维加斯的泳池似乎避开了这些限制。因为虽然这些员工端送酒水、照看酒吧，但他们的正式名称为“营销模特”，1月份的面试是“试镜”——这种说法使得度假村能够掩盖那些在其他州属于明显性别歧视的行为。
Beyond hiring, the segregation of jobs, and the grooming requirements demanded from employees, also raise legal concerns. The all-female cocktailing staffs are expected to maintain near-perfect appearances regarding makeup, hair removal and spray tans; some pools even require weigh-ins. Such expectations make them vulnerable to demeaning comments from management regarding bloating, shaving or the need to lose weight.
除了招聘，工作的分配和老板提出的打扮要求也带来了法律问题。清一色的鸡尾酒女服务员将保持近乎完美的外表——化妆、脱毛、喷美黑喷雾；一些泳池甚至要求称量体重。这种期待使得她们很容易受到管理层的羞辱性批评，比如身材臃肿、体毛过多，或者需要减肥。
Male employees are also expected to look their best, but a walk around a pool captures how unevenly the burdens fall. Behind the bar, where men and women perform the same tasks, only the women are scantily clothed. This July 4 at one spot, the Encore Beach Club, waitresses wore tiny American flag bikinis while their male assistants donned polo shirts tucked into knee-length dress shorts.
男员工也需要以最好状态示人，但到泳池走一圈就会发现，这种负担有多不均衡。在酒吧后面，也就是男女员工承担相同任务的地方，只有女员工穿着暴露。今年7月4日，在安可海滩俱乐部(Encore Beach Club)，女服务员身穿美国国旗比基尼，而男助手们则穿着Polo衫，衬衫塞进了长及膝盖的短裤里。
A former worker at the MGM Grand’s Wet Republic, who asked to remain anonymous to protect her employability, said the requirements were hard to maintain, but necessary. “There are days when you don’t feel like being in a bikini, you don’t want to spend two hours getting ready for work,” she said, “but you have to.”
米高梅大酒店(MGM Grand)湿地共和国(Wet Republic)的一名前员工表示，很难一直达到这种要求，但这是必须的。“有的时候感觉不想穿比基尼，不想花两个小时为工作做准备，”她说。“但你必须这么做。”为了保护就业，这名员工要求匿名。
But do they? Ann C. McGinley, a professor of employment law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, argues that the Civil Rights Act, which outlaws sex discrimination on the job, says no. “Everyone assumes that these jobs have to be this way,” she said. “They know what they are getting into, but that doesn’t make the process legal.”
但她们必须这么做吗？内华达州立大学拉斯维加斯分校(University of Nevada, Las Vegas)劳动法教授安·C·麦金利(Ann C. McGinley)辩称，禁止职场性别歧视的《民权法案》(Civil Rights Act)不允许这种做法。“每个人都想当然的认为这些工作必须这么做，”她说。“她们知道自己的工作就会是这样的，但这并不让相关做法变得合法。”
Professor McGinley said that in places where the men were not dressed in an equally scandalous way, women had stronger cases for filing a complaint.
麦金利表示，在那些男员工没有身穿同样暴露的服装的地方，女员工有更有力的投诉理由。
In response to a series of discrimination suits, resorts rely on a defense called a bona fide occupational qualification, arguing that being a beautiful woman in a racy outfit is necessary to complete the job, because the job is not selling food and drinks, but representing the essence of a brand. This defense has helped resorts win most of these lawsuits, although two recent cases in Atlantic City and Reno, Nev., went in favor of the plaintiffs.
度假村在回应一系列歧视诉讼时，往往会依赖一条被称作“真实的职业要求”的辩护理由；他们辩称，穿着性感服饰的美女对于完成工作是必要的，因为这份工作不是销售食物和饮料，而是代表一个品牌的精髓。这条理由帮度假村打赢了大多数官司，尽管大西洋城和内华达州里诺最近的两起诉讼作出了有利于原告的判决。
But in Vegas, Professor McGinley believes many employees have subscribed to the idea that these practices are legal, and not as many make the effort to sue.
但麦金利认为，在拉斯维加斯，许多雇员都已认同这样做是合法的，所以没有那么多人提起诉讼。
Which is why complaints are relatively rare. And because pool workers are hired seasonally, management has no obligation to hire them again if, over the winter, their looks change. “They remind you of this in September,” the former Wet Republic worker said. “They tell you: ‘No one’s job is safe. Make sure you go to the gym.’ ”
这也是这里抱怨相对较少的原因。此外，由于泳池工作者是按季节聘用的，所以如果冬季过后，这些工作者的外形发生了变化，管理层也没有再次聘用他们的义务。“他们会在9月提醒你这一点，”那名前湿地共和国工作人员表示。“他们会告诉你：‘没谁的工作是安全的。一定要确保去健身房。’”
So are these workers models or servers? Are they selling food and drinks, or a sexual illusion? Here in Vegas, everyone from the worker to the employer to the tourist has adopted the belief that the city and sexuality are inextricably linked.
那么，这些工作人员究竟是模特还是服务员？他们到底是在销售食物和饮料，还是在兜售性幻想？在拉斯维加斯，从工作人员到雇主，再到游客都接受了这样一种观点：这座城市与性密不可分。