Sometimes we see him as other hotel guests would have seen him: as the tall gambler intent on the video poker machine across the casino floor, or as the customer standing in line in front of you at the gift shop, buying snacks, or as the guy you briefly glance at as he waits for you to get off the elevator — polite, unhurried, unmemorable.
有时候，我们是以其他酒店住客的角度去看他：一个想玩视频扑克机的高个子赌徒在赌场大厅走过，或是礼品店里排在你前面那位正在购买零食的顾客，或是你匆匆瞥见的那个等着你走出电梯的男人——彬彬有礼、从容不迫、平淡无奇。
Sometimes we see him as the employees would have seen him, as the casually dressed V.I.P. with the many suitcases who jokes with bellhops, chats with valets and gives out tips along with handshakes. And sometimes we see him as only the surveillance cameras saw him — riding the elevator alone.
有时，我们看到的是酒店员工眼中的他，是一位穿着普通的贵宾，带着许多行李箱，会和门童开玩笑，和服务生闲聊，还会在握手时给小费。有时，我们看到的是只有监控摄像头才能看到的他——独自一人搭乘电梯。
Within a few days, he would use the arsenal he had moved upstairs in those suitcases to shoot and kill 58 people from his 32nd-floor suite at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas.
几天以后，他会用自己放在行李箱中搬运上楼的武器，从拉斯维加斯曼德勒湾赌场度假村32楼的套房内，射杀58人。
These were Stephen Paddock’s final movements in the days before he opened fire from his hotel suite on Oct. 1: an apparently relaxed solo vacation that, as surveillance footage obtained by The New York Times from MGM Resorts makes clear, was actually the methodically planned prelude to a massacre.
这些便是斯蒂芬·帕多克(Stephen Paddock)在10月1日从他的酒店套房内开火之前几天内的最后举动：由《纽约时报》从米高梅国际酒店集团(MGM Resorts)获取的监控画面表明，这场表面上看来轻松自在的单身假期，实为一场计划得有条不紊的大屠杀的前奏。
Rarely are investigators or the public able to track the preparations of a mass gunman in such molecular detail. Yet for all the material the footage offers about the who, the what, the where, the when and the how, we are no closer to the why.
很少有调查人员或公众能如此详尽地追踪到大规模枪击案歹徒的准备过程。但是，虽然录像提供了人物、事件、地点、时间以及方式方法等一切材料，我们仍然未能了解个中原因。
Watching the footage, nearly six months later, is a kind of compulsive ghost-hunting. In the antiseptic stare of the surveillance camera, even the most ordinary interactions are deformed, made weird only by what we know now. It is unnerving because it ends in the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history. It is unnerving because even with his every movement laid out, the grotesquely composed protagonist of this film gives away nothing.
在事发将近六个月后观看这段录像，有点像是沉迷于捉鬼。在监控摄像头冰冷的凝视下，只因我们现在的所知，即使最平常的反应都变得畸形，变得诡异。这让人紧张，因为它将走向美国现代史上死伤最严重的一场大规模枪击案。这让人不安，因为即使他的一举一动都暴露无遗，我们也无法从这个平静得诡异的主人公身上看透任何东西。
The faces of hotel guests and staff are blurred to preserve their privacy, reducing them to smudges that crisscross the screen at random. Mr. Paddock is the only person who appears throughout, the Waldo whose distinctive frame and faintly lopsided gait our eyes quickly learn to seek out in every frame. The clips begin when he appears and end after he leaves. The other people are little more than a backdrop.
为保护隐私，我们对酒店宾客和员工的面部进行了模糊处理，他们被简化成了时不时在屏幕中穿行的模糊痕迹。帕多克是唯一贯穿始终的人物，就像是沃尔多(Waldo)，让我们在每一帧画面里立即去寻找那独特的轮廓和略有些倾斜的步态。这些片段从他现身开始至他离开结束。其他人只不过是一个背景。
Except that some of them may become his victims. And some are already his unwitting accomplices.
那些可能会成为他的受害者的人除外。而还有一些人，已经不自知地成为了他的帮凶。
Over and over in the clips, Mr. Paddock is seen leaving the Mandalay Bay for his home in Mesquite, returning with a dark minivan loaded with suitcases. Over and over, valets take his keys; over and over, bellhops stack his luggage on gold carts, helping him transport at least 21 bags over the course of seven days. As they take the service elevator upstairs, Mr. Paddock chats with them. He cracks a joke. He tips.
从录像片段中可以看到，帕多克多次离开曼德勒湾赌场度假村回到他在麦斯奎特镇上的家，再驾驶一辆装满了行李箱的黑色面包车返回。服务生一次又一次地帮他泊车，门童一次又一次地把他的行李装上金色的推车，在七天之内帮他运送了至少21个行李箱。当他们搭乘服务电梯上楼，帕多克会与他们闲聊。他会说笑话。他会给小费。
They have no idea that the suitcases they are so conscientiously carrying are full of guns and ammunition.
他们不知道，在他们如此辛勤搬运的行李箱里，装满了枪支和弹药。
Mandalay Bay employees are virtually the only people with whom Mr. Paddock interacts in the surveillance footage. He checks in at the V.I.P. desk, eats alone at the resort’s sushi restaurant, makes snack runs to the gift shop and gambles at the high-stakes video poker machines. Casino hosts greet him as a regular. Security cameras capture him with arms aloft, celebrating a $1,000 win.
曼德勒湾赌场度假村的员工在事实上成为了监控视频中唯一与帕多克有过接触的人。他在贵宾台登记入住，在度假村的寿司店独自吃饭，去往礼品店购买零食，在高筹码的视频扑克机上赌博。赌场的接待员像对待熟客那样接待他。监控摄像头还拍下了他举起双臂庆祝自己赢得了1000美元的镜头。
But his movements are otherwise sedate, deliberate, unobtrusive, so much so that when he raises a hand to scratch his face in the elevator at one point, the extra movement registers as significant, even sinister.
但在其他时候，他的举动沉稳、从容，毫不惹眼。以至于有一次，当他在电梯里抬手挠自己的脸，这个额外的举动都显得意义重大，甚至显得凶恶。
Toward the end of the footage, two guests carrying shiny plastic inner tubes get off the elevator, padding out in flip-flops. Mr. Paddock pauses to let them off, then gets on.
在录像的最后，两名宾客蹬着夹趾拖鞋，带着反光的塑料泳圈走出了电梯。帕多克稍作停留让他们出来，自己才走了进去。
It is the afternoon of Sept. 30. They seem to be on their way to the pool. He is on his way upstairs, where his guns await.
这是9月30日的下午。他们似乎是在往泳池走去。帕多克正在上楼，在那里，他的枪正等候着他。