For those in and around the news business, the fact that Hersh’s report appeared in The London Review of Books and not The New Yorker, his usual outlet, was a story in its own right, one that hasn’t been told in full before. (Editors and reporters may not be as secretive as intelligence officials, but they like to keep a tight lid on their operational details, too.)
在新闻及周边从业人员看来，赫什(Hersh)这篇报道出现在《伦敦书评》(London Review of Books)上，而非他通常发表文章的《纽约客》(The New Yorker)杂志，这里面本身就很有文章，是一个不曾向外界完整讲述的故事（编辑和记者可能不像情报官员那么保密，但他们也喜欢对自己的业务细节严格保密）。
A week or so after the raid, Hersh called The New Yorker’s editor, David Remnick. In 2009, Hersh wrote a story for the magazine about the growing concern among U.S. officials that Pakistan’s large nuclear arsenal could fall into the hands of extremists inside the country’s military. Now he let Remnick know that two of his sources — one in Pakistan, the other in Washington — were telling him something else: The administration was lying about the bin Laden operation.
针对本·拉登的突袭行动过去大概一周以后，赫什拨通了《纽约客》主编戴维·雷姆尼克(David Remnick)的电话。2009年，赫什曾为该杂志撰写了一篇文章，称美国官员越来越担心，巴基斯坦的大规模核武器储备有可能会落入该国军方内部的极端分子手中。而现在他想让雷姆尼克知道，自己的两个信源——一个在巴基斯坦，另一个在华盛顿——正向他透露一些别的东西：在猎杀本·拉登的行动上，政府正在欺骗美国民众。
One of The New Yorker’s staff writers, Dexter Filkins, was already planning a trip to Pakistan for a different assignment. It is rare, but not unprecedented, for The New Yorker to run double-bylined articles, and the magazine decided to pursue one. It paired Filkins with Hersh, asking Filkins to report the Pakistani side — in particular, the notion that Pakistan had secretly cooperated with the United States — while Hersh would keep following leads from Washington. But Filkins, who covered Afghanistan and Pakistan for The Times before moving to The New Yorker, spent about a week running the tip by sources inside the Pakistani government and military with little success.
当时《纽约客》记者德克斯特·费尔金斯(Dexter Filkins)正计划前往巴基斯坦做另外一篇报道。双人署名文章在《纽约客》很少见，但也不是没有先例，所以杂志决定这次就这么做，让费尔金斯和赫什合作完成一篇报道。费尔金斯负责巴基斯坦方面，尤其是调查巴基斯坦是否曾暗中与美国合作，而赫什则继续追踪华盛顿方面的线索。加入《纽约客》之前，费尔金斯曾在《纽约时报》负责阿富汗和巴基斯坦方面的报道。但当时他花了大约一周的时间追查巴基斯坦政府和军方的内部信源提供的那个线索，结果几无所获。
‘‘It wasn’t even that I was getting angry denials,’’ Filkins told me. ‘‘I was getting blank stares.’’ Filkins said the mood on the ground completely contradicted Hersh’s claim; the Pakistani military seemed humiliated about having been kept in the dark by the Americans. Remnick told him to move on. He ended up writing about a Pakistani journalist who was murdered, probably by the country’s intelligence service, the I.S.I., after detailing the links between Islamist militants and the Pakistani military.
“我所得到的反馈，连愤怒的否认都没有，”费尔金斯告诉我。“只有茫然困惑的表情。”费尔金斯说，他在当地感受到的情绪，和赫什所声称的完全不同；巴基斯坦军方似乎为被美国蒙在鼓里而感到羞辱。雷姆尼克告诉他放下这个调查去做别的。在理清伊斯兰主义激进分子和巴基斯坦军方的各种关系之后，他最终写了一篇有关一名巴基斯坦记者有可能被该国情报机构三方情报局(ISI)谋杀的文章。
In the meantime, The New Yorker published Schmidle’s account of the bin Laden raid, and, soon after, brought Schmidle on as a staff writer. (In an email, Schmidle told me his subsequent reporting has only confirmed his initial account. Regarding the possibility ‘‘that some inside the Pakistani military or intelligence services knew that bin Laden was living in that house, I think it’s entirely plausible, though I’ve not seen any proof,’’ he wrote.)
与此同时，《纽约客》刊登了施米德(Schmidle)讲述突袭本·拉登行动的文章，不久后他正式成为《纽约客》的一名记者（施米德在一封邮件中告诉我，他的后续报道也只是再次印证了他之前的描述。至于巴基斯坦军方或情报机构内部是否有人知道本·拉登住在那座房子里，“我觉得完全有可能，不过我没看到过有什么证据能证明这一点，”他写道）。
Hersh plowed ahead by himself, working his sources, trying to flesh out his counternarrative. Three years later he sent a draft to The New Yorker. After reading it a few times, Remnick told Hersh that he didn’t think he had the story nailed down. He suggested that Hersh continue his reporting and see where it took him. Instead, Hersh gave the story to The London Review of Books.
赫什一个人继续调查，搜集资料，竭力让自己的这种与官方口径相左的叙述显得更充实。三年后，他给《纽约客》发了一份草稿。在反复阅读了草稿之后，雷姆尼克告诉赫什，他觉得这篇报道做得还不够到位，建议赫什继续调查，看看还能发现些什么。赫什没有这么做，而是把文章给了《伦敦书评》。
Hersh has never been on The New Yorker’s staff, preferring to remain a freelancer. But he has strong ties to the magazine. He published his first article there in 1971 and has written hundreds of thousands of words for the magazine since then, including, most recently, an essay about visiting My Lai with his family that was published only weeks before his London Review of Books article on bin Laden. (His son Joshua, now a reporter for Buzzfeed, was a New Yorker fact-checker for many years.) Remnick has published some of Hersh’s most provocative articles and, for that matter, plenty of other major national-security stories that the government would have preferred to keep buried.
赫什从来没有正式加入《纽约客》，他宁愿一直当个自由撰稿人。但他和这本杂志渊源很深。1971年，他在《纽约客》发表了第一篇文章，之后为它先后撰写了几十万字的文章，其中包括最近一篇有关他和家人探访美莱村的文章，时间就在他在《伦敦书评》发表那篇有关本·拉登的文章之前几周（他的儿子、现任Buzzfeed记者的乔舒亚[Joshua]，曾在《纽约客》做过多年的事实核查员）。雷姆尼克负责发表过赫什最具争议性的一些文章，以及其他很多美国政府不会想要看到的、有关国家安全的重大报道。
But the bin Laden report wasn’t the first one by Hersh that Remnick rejected because he considered the sourcing too thin. In 2013 and 2014, he passed on two Hersh articles about a deadly sarin gas attack in Syria, each of which claimed the attack was not launched by the Assad regime, the presumed culprit, but by Syrian rebels, in collaboration with the Turkish government. Those articles also landed in The London Review of Books. Like the bin Laden article, each was widely questioned upon publication, with critics arguing that the once-legendary reporter was increasingly favoring provocation over rigor. (Hersh still stands by both stories.)
雷姆尼克因为觉得信源可信度较小而退回了赫什的一些文章，有关本·拉登的报道并非第一篇。在2013及2014年，他放弃了赫什写的两篇有关叙利亚沙林毒气致命袭击的文章，每一篇报道都声称此次袭击不是由阿萨德政权——假定的元凶——发动的，而是由叙利亚叛乱分子与土耳其政府联手开展的。《伦敦书评》也获得了这两篇文章。就像有关本·拉登的报道一样，这些文章的发表引发了广泛质疑，批评人士辩称，曾经的传奇记者愈发喜欢挑衅多过保持严谨（赫什至今认为这两篇报道没有问题）。
The media would certainly have treated Hersh’s bin Laden story differently if it had been published in The New Yorker, which is highly regarded for its thorough review process. But Hersh insists that the L.R.B. was just as thorough, if not more so. His editor, Christian Lorentzen, told me that three fact-checkers worked on the bin Laden article, and he also spoke directly to Hersh’s key sources, including the retired American intelligence official identified in the article as the ‘‘major U.S. source for the account.’’
如果赫什有关本·拉登的报道最初由《纽约客》发表，媒体对待该报道的态度肯定会有所不同，《纽约客》因为严谨的审核过程而享有较高声誉。但赫什坚称《伦敦书评》的审核至少是同样严谨。他的编辑克里斯蒂安·洛伦森(Christian Lorentzen)告诉我，有三名事实核查员负责审核有关本·拉登的文章，他还直接与赫什的重要信源交谈，包括那名美国退休情报官员——文章中提到的“主要的美国信源”。
Even if the fact-checking process at The London Review of Books was as thorough as Hersh and the magazine say, we are still left trusting his unnamed sources. Should we? Hersh’s first Abu Ghraib article was based on an internal Army report, but many of the most important revelations in his work come from mid­level bureaucrats, ambassadors, C.I.A. station chiefs and four-star generals whose identities are known to only his editors and fact-checkers. The promise of anonymity is an essential tool for reporters. It changed the course of history (in Watergate, most prominently) and helped make Hersh’s illustrious career. But it also invariably leaves doubts about the motivation of the sources and thus their credibility.
即便《伦敦书评》的事实核查过程确实像赫什及该杂志所说的那么严谨，我们还是得信得过他的匿名信源才行。我们应该相信吗？赫什第一篇有关阿布格莱布监狱(Abu Ghraib)的报道，是根据军队内部的一份报告撰写的，但其报道中很多重要内幕都来自中层官员、大使、CIA驻站站长及四星上将，只有编辑和事实核查员知道这些人的身份。做出匿名承诺对记者来说是一种必不可少的手段。这改变了历史进程（最著名的案例是水门事件），帮助赫什创出赫赫声名。但也一直让人对信源的动机及可信度产生怀疑。
Hersh’s instincts — to him, every story stinks from Day 1 — have served him well. But there are inherent perils in making a career of digging up the government’s deepest secrets. National-security reporters are almost never present at the events in question, and they are usually working without photos or documents, too. Their hardest facts consist almost entirely of what (unnamed) people say. It is a bedrock value of journalism that reporters must never get facts wrong, but faithfully reproducing what people tell you is just the beginning. You have to also decide which facts and which voices to include and how best to assemble this material into an accurate, coherent narrative: a story. In making these judgments, even the best might miss a nuance or choose the wrong fact or facts to emphasize. As Steve Coll, a New Yorker staff writer and the dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, told me, ‘‘You’d want an investigative reporter’s reputation to not be 100 percent right all of the time, but to be mostly right, to be directionally right.’’
赫什的本能——对他来说，所有故事都是从一开始就可疑的——对他有所帮助。但挖掘政府最深秘密的工作本身具有风险。国家安全记者几乎从不曾出现在事件现场，他们通常也没有照片或文件佐证。他们最确凿的事实几乎全是（匿名）人说的话。记者一定不能搞错事实，这是新闻工作的基本价值观，但忠实地重现人们所说的话只是一个开始。你还需要判定选用哪些事实和声音，如何以最佳方式将这些材料组合成准确、连贯的叙述：一个故事。在做出判定时，即便最佳叙述可能也会弄不清一个微小差别或选择强调一个或多个错误事实。就像《纽约客》专职作者、哥伦比亚大学新闻学研究生院(Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism)院长史蒂夫·科尔(Steve Coll)对我说的那样，“一名调查记者的声誉不会是始终百分之百正确，而是在多数时候正确，在方向上正确。”