Mark Bowden was watching a ballgame — the Phillies versus the Mets — on the night of May 1, 2011, when the network cut away to President Obama in the East Room of the White House. “Tonight,” the president said, ‘‘I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaeda and a terrorist who’s responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women and children.’’
2011年5月1日那天晚上，马克·鲍登(Mark Bowden)正在观看费城人队与大都会队的一场棒球比赛，电视台却突然切换到奥巴马总统在白宫东厅的画面。总统说，“今晚，我可以向美国人民和全世界宣布，美国发起的一次行动已经击毙了基地组织(Al Qaeda)领导人奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)，一位要对谋杀数千名无辜的男男女女和儿童负责的恐怖分子。”
Five minutes or so after the president wrapped up his brief remarks, as thousands of Americans gathered in front of the White House and at ground zero chanting ‘‘U-S-A! U-S-A!’’ Bowden’s cellphone rang. It was Mike Stenson, the president of Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Bowden had worked with Bruckheimer on the film adaptation of his 1999 best seller, ‘‘Black Hawk Down.’’
总统结束他简短发言后五分钟左右，当成千上万的美国人聚集在白宫前和世贸大厦遗址处高呼“美-利-坚！美-利-坚！”时，鲍登的手机响了起来。打电话的是麦克·斯坦森(Mike Stenson)，杰瑞·布鲁克海默电影公司(Jerry Bruckheimer Films)的总裁。鲍登曾与布鲁克海默合作将他1999年的畅销书《黑鹰坠落》改编为电影。
‘‘Mike said, ‘Look, Mark, Jerry wants to make a movie about this bin Laden thing, and he wants to put together all of the people who made ‘Black Hawk Down,’ ’’ Bowden told me over lunch recently. ‘‘ ‘He wants to know: Would you be willing to write the script?’ ’’
“麦克说，‘马克，杰瑞希望把本·拉登这件事拍成一部电影，而且他还要把拍《黑鹰坠落》的原班人马都拉回来，’”最近鲍登在午餐时告诉我。“‘他想知道：你愿意写剧本吗？’”
Bowden said absolutely, count him in.
鲍登说当然，算他一个。
He quickly reached out to Jay Carney, Obama’s press secretary at the time, to ask for an interview with the president. Bowden was friendly with Carney from a profile he wrote of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for The Atlantic. Still, he was surprised to hear back from him almost right away. It was an encouraging response, especially given the deluge of requests Bowden knew the president must be receiving. Carney said that he couldn’t make any promises but that he would definitely advocate on his behalf.
他连忙联系奥巴马总统当时的发言人杰伊·卡尼，要求与总统面谈。鲍登和卡尼是朋友，他们是在鲍登为《大西洋月刊》(The Atlantic)撰写副总统约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden)专访时认识的。不过，他对几乎立即收到回复仍感到很惊讶。这是一个令人鼓舞的回应，尤其是考虑到鲍登知道总统现在一定收到了纷至沓来的申请。卡尼说他不能做出任何承诺，但他肯定会尽力推动。
The next day, Stenson called back: Bruckheimer had changed his mind.
第二天，斯坦森打电话回来：布鲁克海默改变了主意。
Bowden considered for a second and decided he would write a book instead. In some ways, it was a perfect match of author and subject. Bowden specializes in chronicling covert operations. In addition to ‘‘Black Hawk Down,’’ which told the story of a 1993 raid in Somalia by U.S. Army Rangers and Delta Force teams that went disastrously awry, he has written books about the failed mission to rescue the American hostages in Iran in 1980 and the long manhunt for the Colombian drug kingpin Pablo Escobar.
鲍登考虑了一会，他决定还是要写一本书。在某些方面，它是作者和主题的完美组合。鲍登专门记述秘密行动。除了讲述1993年美国陆军游骑兵(U.S. Army Rangers)和三角洲部队(Delta Force) 在索马里突袭惨败故事的《黑鹰坠落》外，他还写了关于1980年在伊朗解救美国人质的失败任务以及搜捕哥伦比亚大毒枭帕布罗·埃斯科巴(Pablo Escobar)的长期行动的书。
His method in those books was to combine exhaustive reporting with vivid storytelling. It helps that Bowden tends to write about historical events a long time after they take place. People are typically eager to sit down with him, and they are usually able to speak freely. One interview subject leads to another, who leads to another, and so on. It’s a process that can take years.
他的那些书里使用的方法是将详尽的报告与生动的故事结合起来。鲍登倾向于在历史事件发生很长一段时间后再去记述它们，这对此很有帮助。人们通常渴望与他坐在一起，他们一般也能够畅所欲言。一个访谈对象引出另一个人，另一个又再引出其他人，如此这般。这是一个可能需要数年的过程。
The bin Laden book proved to be a very different sort of undertaking. Bowden was trying to tell the story just months after it happened. And only a small number of people — a handful of senior administration and military officials and the Navy SEALs who carried out the operation — had been privy to the events of that evening. There was virtually no paper trail for Bowden to follow; the government had classified all the documents relating to the raid, including the record of the C.I.A.’s search for bin Laden. Bowden had to request interviews through official administration channels and hope for the best.
事实证明，这本关于本·拉登的书是一个非常不同的项目。鲍登试图在故事发生仅仅几个月后就去讲述它。只有很少人对那天晚上的事情知情，他们包括少数政府和军队高级官员以及执行行动的海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)队员。而且几乎没有文件记录可供鲍登查询；政府已经将所有与此次突袭有关的文件，包括中情局(C.I.A.)寻找拉登的记录，归类为机密文件。鲍登不得不寄望于通过官方渠道获得访谈机会。
His book, ‘‘The Finish,’’ was published in the fall of 2012, and the story it tells is one that is by now familiar. The C.I.A., working in the shadows for many years, had identified a courier whom agency officers eventually traced to a large compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. Agents studied this compound for months via distant satellite cameras but couldn’t be certain that bin Laden was inside. If he was — a 55/45 percent proposition, Obama said later — the president did not want to let him slip away. The safe play was to reduce the compound to dust with a bomb or missiles, but this would risk civilian casualties and also make it impossible to verify the kill with any certainty. Obama instead sent in a team of 23 Navy SEALs in two Black Hawk helicopters. The whole mission almost fell apart when one of the helicopters had to crash-land near an animal pen inside the compound. But the SEALs adapted on the fly and were soon making their assault, breaching gates and doors with C-4 charges and, eventually, killing their target. Before leaving, they blew up the damaged Black Hawk. As they flew off, a giant fire raged inside the compound. The Pakistani government was none the wiser until the SEALs were long gone.
他的书《终点》(The Finish)在2012年秋天出版，讲述的是一个人们现在已耳熟能详的故事。长年展开秘密工作的美国中央情报局指认出一名信使，其特工最终追踪他到了巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德的一个大型院落。特工通过远程卫星摄像头对这个院落研究了几个月，但不能确定拉登是否在里面。如果他在，总统不想让他溜走，奥巴马后来说这是一个55%比45%机会的计划。保险的办法是用炸弹或导弹将这个院落夷为平地，但是这可能造成平民伤亡并且无法核实是否炸死了本·拉登。奥巴马转而派遣了两架黑鹰直升机和23名海豹突击队队员。当一架直升机不得不在大院里畜栏处紧急降落时，整个任务差点失败。但海豹突击队根据实际情况做出改变，并很快发动了攻击，用C-4炸药破坏了大门和房间门，并最终击毙他们的目标。临走时，他们炸毁了受损的黑鹰直升机。当他们飞走时，院落里大火熊熊。直到突击队走了很长时间，巴基斯坦政府对此仍一无所知。
This irresistible story would be told in many different forms in the months and years that followed. Bowden’s was one of several books, but there were also countless newspaper articles, magazine features, television news programs and ultimately the 2012 movie ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty,’’ which billed itself as the narrative of ‘‘the Greatest Manhunt in History.’’ In this sense, the killing of bin Laden was not only a victory for the U.S. military but also for the American storytelling machine, which kicked into high gear pretty much the moment the terrorist leader’s dead body hit the floor.
在接下来的几年里，人们以许多不同的形式讲述了这个令人着迷的故事。鲍登的书是几本书之一，此外还有无数的报纸文章、杂志专题、电视新闻节目，以及最终于2012年上映的电影《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)，片方将其标榜为对“史上最伟大追捕”的叙述。在这个意义上来说，本·拉登之死不仅是美军的胜利，也是美国叙事机器的胜利。它基本上是在这位恐怖组织头目的尸体落在地板上那一刻，就开始高速运转。
Last spring, Bowden got another unexpected call on his cellphone. He was on his way home to Pennsylvania from a meeting in New York with his publisher about his next book, the story of the Battle of Hue in the Vietnam War. On the other end of the line was Seymour Hersh, the investigative reporter.
去年春天，鲍登又接到了一个意外的电话。当时他参加在纽约的一个会议后，正在返回宾夕法尼亚州家中的路上。会议上，他和自己下一部作品的出版商讨论了这本关于越战顺化战役的书籍。电话的另一端是调查记者西摩·赫什(Seymour Hersh)。
Hersh was calling to ask about the photographs of bin Laden’s burial at sea — carried out, the U.S. government said, in accordance with Islamic custom — that Bowden had described in detail at the end of ‘‘The Finish,’’ as well as in an adaptation from the book that appeared in Vanity Fair. ‘‘One frame shows the body wrapped in a weighted shroud,’’ Bowden had written. ‘‘The next shows it lying diagonally on a chute, feet overboard. In the next frame, the body is hitting the water. In the next it is visible just below the surface, ripples spreading outward. In the last frame there are only circular ripples on the surface. The mortal remains of Osama bin Laden were gone for good.’’
赫什打电话来是询问拉登海葬照片的事。美国政府表示，安葬是按照伊斯兰习俗进行的，对此鲍登在《终点》结尾处以及《名利场》上一篇此书的改编文章中进行了详细描述。“一幅照片显示了裹在加重裹尸布中的尸体，”鲍登写到。“下一幅显示它躺在斜槽上，脚在舷外。下一幅中，尸体触碰水面。再下一幅里，它在水面上若隐若现，涟漪向外扩散。最后一幅里，水面上只有圆形的波纹。奥萨马·本·拉登的遗体就此彻底消失。”
Hersh wanted to know: Had Bowden actually seen those photos?
赫什想知道：鲍登真正看到过这些照片吗？
Bowden told Hersh that he had not. He explained that they were described to him by someone who had.
鲍登告诉赫什他没有。他解释说，这些是看过照片的人描述给他的。
Hersh said the photographs didn’t exist. Indeed, he went on, the entire narrative of how the United States hunted down and killed bin Laden was a fabrication. He told Bowden that he was getting ready to publish the real story of what happened in Abbottabad.
赫什说这些照片并不存在。事实上，他继续说，美国追杀击毙本·拉登的整个故事都是编造的。他告诉鲍登，他正准备公布在阿伯塔巴德发生的真实情况。
Bowden said he found Hersh’s claims hard to believe. Hersh tried to sympathize. ‘‘Nobody likes to get played,’’ he said, adding that he meant no offense.
鲍登说，他觉得赫什的说法很难让人相信。赫什试图表示同情。“没人喜欢被玩弄，”他说，并补充说他没有任何冒犯的意思。
‘‘I said, ‘No offense taken,’ ’’ Bowden recalled. ‘‘I told him that he was, after all, Seymour Hersh, and that he ought to do whatever he thought best. But that in this case, I feared he was mistaken.’’
“我说，‘我没有受到冒犯，’“鲍登回忆道。“我告诉他，他毕竟是西摩·赫什，他应该做一切他认为应该做的事情。但在这个问题上，我担心是他错了。”