It’s hard to overstate the degree to which the killing of Osama bin Laden transformed American politics. From a purely practical standpoint, it enabled Obama to recast himself as a bold leader, as opposed to an overly cautious one, in advance of his 2012 re-election campaign. This had an undeniable impact on the outcome of that election. (‘‘Osama bin Laden is dead and General Motors is alive,’’ Joe Biden was fond of boasting on the campaign trail.) Strategically, the death of bin Laden allowed Obama to declare victory over Al Qaeda, giving him the cover he needed to begin phasing U.S. troops out of Afghanistan. And it almost single-handedly redeemed the C.I.A., turning a decade-long failure of intelligence into one of the greatest triumphs in the history of the agency.
奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之死对美国政治的改变，可能怎样形容也不为过。从纯粹现实的角度来看，它使奥巴马在2012年竞选连任前将自己重铸为一名无畏的领导者，而不是一个过度谨慎的总统。这对那次选举的结果产生了不可忽视的影响。（“奥萨马·本·拉登死了，通用汽车[General Motors]活了，”乔•拜登在竞选过程中很喜欢这样自夸。）在战略上，本·拉登之死让奥巴马可以宣称战胜了基地组织，并给了他开始逐步从阿富汗撤军的借口。而且这件事几乎一举救赎了美国中央情报局(CIA)，将10年之久的失败情报工作转变为该机构历史上最伟大的胜利之一。
But bin Laden’s death had an even greater effect on the American psyche. Symbolically, it brought a badly wanted moment of moral clarity, of unambiguous American valor, to a murky war defined by ethical compromise and even at times by collective shame. It completed the historical arc of the 9/11 attacks. The ghastly image of collapsing towers that had been fixed in our collective minds for years was dislodged by one of Obama and his senior advisers huddled tensely around a table in the White House Situation Room, watching closely as justice was finally brought to the perpetrator.
但是，本·拉登之死对美国人的心理作用更大。对于这场被道德妥协、乃至有时为集体耻辱所定义的不明不白的战争，它象征性地带来了人们迫切需要的道德清晰度以及明确的美国式勇武。它为9·11袭击的历史轨迹画上终结的那一笔。定格在我们脑海多年的大楼倒塌的可怕画面，已被奥巴马和他手下的高官们紧紧挤在白宫局势研究室一张桌子旁，密切关注作恶者终被正义惩罚的画面所代替。
The first dramatic reconstruction of the raid itself — ‘‘Getting bin Laden: What Happened That Night in Abbottabad’’ — was written by a freelancer named Nicholas Schmidle and published in The New Yorker just three months after the operation. The son of a Marine general, Schmidle spent a couple of years in Pakistan and has written on counterterrorism for many publications, including this magazine. His New Yorker story was a cinematic account of military daring, sweeping but also granular in its detail, from the ‘‘metallic cough of rounds being chambered’’ inside the two Black Hawks as the SEALs approached the compound, to the mud that ‘‘sucked at their boots’’ when they hit the ground. One of the SEALs who shot bin Laden, Matt Bissonnette, added a more personal dimension to the story a year later in a best-selling book, ‘‘No Easy Day.’’ Bowden focused on Washington, taking readers inside the White House as the president navigated what would become a defining moment of his presidency. And then there was ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty,’’ which chronicled the often barbaric C.I.A. interrogations that the agency said helped lead the United States to bin Laden’s compound.
第一篇生动描述那次突袭行动的的文章是《击毙本·拉登实录——阿伯塔巴德之夜》(Getting bin Laden: What Happened That Night in Abbottabad)，这是由自由撰稿人尼古拉斯·施米德(Nicholas Schmidle)在那次行动仅仅三个月后发表在《纽约客》(New Yorker)上的。施米德是一位海军将军的儿子，他在巴基斯坦待过两三年，并为包括这本杂志在内的许多出版物撰写过反恐题材的文章。他发表在《纽约客》上的故事用电影般的手法叙述了突袭行动的英勇无畏，其叙事非常全面，且包含诸多细节，从海豹突击队(SEAL)接近院落时两架黑鹰直升机里“子弹上膛的机械声响”，到他们降到地面上时被泥泞“吸住了战靴”。马特·比索内特(Matt Bissonnette)是射杀本·拉登的海豹突击队员之一，他在一年后的一本畅销书《艰难一日》(No Easy Day)中为这个故事添加了更为个人化的描述。鲍登则将关注重心放在华盛顿，将读者带进白宫来见证总统做出其任期内最重大抉择的那一刻。然后就是《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)，它记载了中情局的许多残暴审问，该机构曾表示正是这些审问帮助美国找到了本·拉登的藏身之处。
The official narrative of the hunt for and killing of bin Laden at first seemed like a clear portrait, but in effect it was more like a composite sketch from multiple perspectives: the Pentagon, the White House and the C.I.A. And when you studied that sketch a little more closely, not everything looked quite right. Almost immediately, the administration had to correct some of the most significant details of the raid. Bin Laden had not been ‘‘engaged in a firefight,’’ as the deputy national-security adviser, John Brennan, initially told reporters; he’d been unarmed. Nor had he used one of his wives as a human shield. The president and his senior advisers hadn’t been watching a ‘‘live feed’’ of the raid in the Situation Room; the operation had not been captured on helmet-cams. But there were also some more unsettling questions about how the whole story had been constructed. Schmidle acknowledged after his article was published that he had never actually spoken with any of the 23 SEALs. Some details of Bissonnette’s account of the raid contradicted those of another ex-SEAL, Robert O’Neill, who claimed in Esquire and on Fox News to have fired the fatal bullet. Public officials with security clearances told reporters that the torture scenes that were so realistically depicted in ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty’’ had not in fact played any role in helping us find bin Laden.
刚开始时猎杀本·拉登的官方叙述似乎很清晰，但实际上它更像是来自五角大楼、白宫和中央情报局的多角度复合素描。而当你稍微仔细研究一下这幅素描，你就会发现什么地方有点不对。没过多长时间，政府就纠正了突袭行动的一些显著细节。不像副国家安全顾问约翰·布伦南(John Brennan)最初告诉记者的那样，本·拉登一直没“卷入交火”，他手里没有武器。他也没有将他的一位妻子当做人肉盾牌。总统和他的高级官员在白宫局势研究室内不是在观看突袭行动的“现场直播”；行动也并没有被头盔摄像机拍摄下来。但在整个故事的构建上，还是有些让人感到不安的问题。施米德在自己的文章发表之后公开承认，他从来没有真正和 23 名海豹突击队队员交谈过。而比索内特对于突袭行动的一些细节描述，也和另一名前海豹突击队队员罗伯特·奥尼尔(Robert O’Neill)有矛盾之处——奥尼尔在《时尚先生》(Esquire)上和福克斯新闻(Fox News)上都说是他开了那致命的一枪。拥有相应机密权限的政府官员告诉记者，《猎杀本·拉登》里逼真的拷问场面事实上没有在帮助他们寻找本·拉登方面起到任何作用。
Then there was the sheer improbability of the story, which asked us to believe that Obama sent 23 SEALs on a seemingly suicidal mission, invading Pakistani air space without air or ground cover, fast-roping into a compound that, if it even contained bin Laden, by all rights should have been heavily guarded. And according to the official line, all of this was done without any sort of cooperation or even assurances from the Pakistani military or intelligence service. How likely was that? Abbottabad is basically a garrison town; the conspicuously large bin Laden compound — three stories, encircled by an 18-foot-high concrete wall topped with barbed wire — was less than two miles from Pakistan’s equivalent of West Point. And what about the local police? Were they really unaware that an enormous American helicopter had crash-landed in their neighborhood? And why were we learning so much about a covert raid by a secret special-operations unit in the first place?
然后就是这个故事最令人难以相信的部分：在没有任何空中或者地面掩护的情况下，奥巴马派了 23 名海豹突击队队员去执行一场看似自杀的任务——侵入巴基斯坦领空并快速索降到一处院落里。如果本·拉登真的在这个院落里，这里一定有着严密的防御措施。而且按照官方说法，所有这些行动都没有任何巴基斯坦军方或者情报部门的协助和保障。这怎么可能？阿伯塔巴德基本上是一个大军营；本·拉登藏身的大型院落非常显眼——三层楼，环绕 着18 英尺（约合5.5米）高的水泥墙，墙顶还拉着带刺铁丝网，而且它距离巴基斯坦的“西点军校”只有两英里。当地的警察部门是怎么回事？他们真的没有注意到一架庞大的美国直升机在附近紧急降落了？而且最主要的一点是，为什么我们能知道一个秘密特别行动小组在暗中进行的突袭行动的那么多情况？
American history is filled with war stories that subsequently unraveled. Consider the Bush administration’s false claims about Saddam Hussein’s supposed arsenal of weapons of mass destruction. Or the imagined attack on a U.S. vessel in the Gulf of Tonkin. During the Bay of Pigs, the government inflated the number of fighters it dispatched to Cuba in hopes of encouraging local citizens to rise up and join them. When the operation failed, the government quickly deflated the number, claiming that it hadn’t been an invasion at all but rather a modest attempt to deliver supplies to local guerrillas. More recently, the Army reported that the ex-N.F.L. safety Pat Tillman was killed by enemy fire, rather than acknowledging that he was accidentally shot in the head by a machine-gunner from his own unit.
美国历史充斥着最终被揭穿的战争故事。想想布什(Bush)政府当年谎称萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有所谓的大规模杀伤性武器。或者是只存在于想象中的对北部湾里美国船只的攻击。猪湾事件中，政府先是夸大了派去古巴的士兵人数，希望这能鼓励当地人能站出来加入他们。当行动失败时，政府又迅速降低人数，声称这根本就不是入侵行动，只是给当地游击队输送物资的一次小型行动而已。《军队》(Army)杂志最近报道称，前美国橄榄球联盟(NFL)安全卫帕特·提尔曼(Pat Tillman)牺牲在敌人的炮火下，而不去承认实际上他是被自己部队的机枪意外击中头部而死亡。
These false stories couldn’t have reached the public without the help of the media. Reporters don’t just find facts; they look for narratives. And an appealing narrative can exert a powerful gravitational pull that winds up bending facts in its direction. During the Iraq war, reporters informed us that a mob of jubilant Iraqis toppled the statue of Saddam Hussein in Firdos Square. Never mind that there were so few local people trying to pull the statue down that they needed the help of a U.S. military crane. Reporters also built Pvt. Jessica Lynch into a war hero who had resisted her captors during an ambush in Iraq, when in fact her weapon had jammed and she remained in her Humvee. In an Op-Ed essay in The Times about the Lynch story in 2003, it was Bowden himself who explained this phenomenon as ‘‘the tendency to weave what little we know into a familiar shape — often one resembling the narrative arc of a film.’’
没有媒体的帮助，这些虚假故事不可能传到公众耳里。记者不仅寻找事实，也在追求故事。好的故事可以施加巨大的引力，扭曲事实，并最终将之带入自己的轨道。伊拉克战争期间，记者告诉我们，一群伊拉克民众欢呼着推倒了位于天堂广场的萨达姆·侯赛因雕像。但却绝口不提当地尝试推倒雕像的民众是如此之少，以至于不得不在美军起重机的帮助之下才能完成。记者还将二等兵杰西卡·林奇(Jessica Lynch)塑造为一名战争英雄，形容她在伊拉克的一次伏击战中对其俘虏者展开抵抗，而事实却是她的武器卡住了，不得不留在悍马车里。 在《纽约时报》2003 年一篇讲述林奇故事的评论文章中，鲍登自己将这种现象解释为“一种将我们所知甚少的事情编织成熟悉形状的倾向——经常和电影的叙事弧相似。”
Was the story of Osama bin Laden’s death yet another example of American mythmaking? Had Bowden and, for that matter, all of us been seduced by a narrative that was manufactured expressly for our benefit? Or were these questions themselves just paranoid?
奥萨马·本·拉登之死的故事是不是美国所编造神话的另一个例子？就此而言，鲍登和我们所有人是不是都被特意为我们所制造的故事诱导了？或者这些问题本身显示我们太多疑了？