‘‘The story stunk from Day 1,’’ Hersh told me. It was a miserably hot summer day in Washington, and we were sitting in his office, a two-room suite in an anonymous office complex near Dupont Circle, where Hersh works alone. There’s no nameplate on the door; the walls of the anteroom are crowded with journalism awards. ‘‘I have a lot of fun here,’’ he said, amid the clutter of cardboard boxes and precariously stacked books. ‘‘I can do whatever I want.’’
“这故事从一开始就很可疑，”赫什(Hersh)告诉我。那是一个无比炎热的夏日，我们坐在他位于华盛顿的办公室内，这是杜邦环岛(Dupont Circle)附近一座普通办公楼里的一套两室套房，赫什独自在这里工作。门上没有门牌；候客室的墙上挂完满了各种新闻奖项。“我在这儿挺开心的，”他站在杂乱的纸箱和摇摇欲坠的书堆中说道。“可以随心所欲。”
Within days of the bin Laden raid, Hersh told me, ‘‘I knew there was a big story there.’’ He spent the next four years, on and off, trying to get it. What he wound up publishing, this May in The London Review of Books, was no incremental effort to poke a few holes in the administration’s story. It was a 10,000-word refutation of the entire official narrative, sourced largely to a retired U.S. senior intelligence official, with corroboration from two ‘‘longtime consultants to the Special Operations Command.’’ Hersh confidently walked readers through an alternate version of all the familiar plot points in a dispassionate, just-the-facts tone, turning a story of patient perseverance, careful planning and derring-do into one of luck (good and bad), damage control and opportunism.
突袭本·拉登的行动发生不过几天，赫什就告诉我，“我知道这里面大有文章。”他用接下来的四年时间努力搞清楚这件事，这项工作时断时续。他最终于5月在《伦敦书评》(The London Review of Books)发表的文章，可不是在美国政府的讲述中找出几个疑点，而是以1万字的篇幅反驳了整个官方叙述，其信源主要来自一位已经退休的美国资深情报官员，并且其信息得到了两位“特种作战司令部(Special Operations Command)长期顾问”的佐证。赫什以冷静客观的笔调，信心十足地讲述了故事的另外一个版本，那些我们熟悉的情节点都有，但它却从一个耐心坚持、仔细策划和大胆行动的故事，变成了一个有关运气（有好有坏）、损失控制和机会主义的故事。
Hersh, who is 78, was reluctant to cooperate when I told him that I was interested in writing about his article. (‘‘I’ve gotta bunch of problems with your request,’’ his first email to me began.) He wanted me to follow up on his reporting instead and suggested that I might start by looking into Pakistan’s radar system, which he said was far too sophisticated to allow two U.S. helicopters to enter the country’s airspace undetected. (‘‘Those dimwitted third-world guys just can’t get anything right,’’ he wrote sarcastically, meaning of course the Pakistanis would have been aware of two military helicopters flying into the heart of their country.) Hersh, who worked at The New York Times for seven years in the 1970s, didn’t think the paper would allow me to take his claims seriously. ‘‘If you did so,’’ he wrote, ‘‘you better be sure not to let your wife start the car for the next few months.’’ But after a little prodding, he relented and spent the better part of a day with me, describing his reporting as thoroughly as he felt he could without compromising his sources.
一开始我对78岁的赫什说，想对他的这篇文章进行报道，他并不愿配合（“我觉得你的请求是有着很多问题的，”他给我的第一封邮件开头这样写道）。他想让我继续跟进他的报道，建议我从调查巴基斯坦的雷达系统入手，他说这套系统十分精密，美国直升机不可能进入该国领空而不被察觉。（“这些第三世界的蠢货什么事也做不好，”他以反讽的语调写道，意指巴基斯坦肯定会知道有两架军用直升机飞到了本国中心地带。）赫什1970年代曾在《纽约时报》工作七年，他不认为本报会容我认真对待他的主张。“如果你当真，”他写道。“接下来几个月，你最好别让你妻子发动汽车。”但我稍微做了争取之后，他就缓和了态度，花了大半天时间给我讲述他的报道，他想尽可能地做到既完整讲述又不暴露自己的信源。
Hersh’s most consequential claim was about how bin Laden was found in the first place. It was not years of painstaking intelligence-gathering, he wrote, that led the United States to the courier and, ultimately, to bin Laden. Instead, the location was revealed by a ‘‘walk-in’’ — a retired Pakistani intelligence officer who was after the $25 million reward that the United States had promised anyone who helped locate him. For that matter, bin Laden was hardly ‘‘in hiding’’ at all; his compound in Abbottabad was actually a safe house, maintained by the Pakistani intelligence service. When the United States confronted Pakistani intelligence officials with this information, Hersh wrote, they eventually acknowledged it was true and even conceded to provide a DNA sample to prove it.
赫什最重要的主张是有关本·拉登最初如何被发现的。他在文中表示，并不是多年细心的情报收集工作让美国找到了那名信使，并最终找到本·拉登。其实，那个地点是由一个“不请自来”的人所透露。这个人是一名巴基斯坦退休情报官员，为的是领取美国承诺给任何帮助锁定本·拉登的人提供的2500万美元赏金。就此而言，本·拉登压根就没有“藏着”；他当时所在的位于阿伯塔巴德的院落，实际上是一个由巴基斯坦情报机构维护的安全屋。赫什还写道，当美国拿这个信息向巴基斯坦的一些情报官员对证时，他们最终承认这是事实，甚至还进一步提供了DNA样本以证明这一点。
According to Hersh’s version, then, the daring raid wasn’t especially daring. The Pakistanis allowed the U.S. helicopters into their airspace and cleared out the guards at the compound before the SEALs arrived. Hersh’s sources told him the United States and Pakistani intelligence officials agreed that Obama would wait a week before announcing that bin Laden had been killed in a ‘‘drone strike somewhere in the mountains on the Pakistan/Afghanistan border.’’ But the president was forced to go public right away, because the crash and subsequent destruction of the Black Hawk — among the rare facts in the official story that Hersh does not dispute — were going to make it impossible to keep the operation under wraps.
在赫什的描述中，那场勇猛的突袭行动并没有那么惊险。巴基斯坦允许美国直升机进入其领空，在海豹突击队达到之前撤走了院落里的警卫人员。赫什的信源告诉他，美国和巴基斯坦情报官员之前达成一致，奥巴马会等一周后再宣布本·拉登已经“在巴基斯坦和阿富汗交界的山区某处进行的一次无人机打击行动”中被击毙。但奥巴马被迫立刻宣布了这一消息，因为其中一架黑鹰直升机迫降后被炸毁——这是少有的赫什没有否定的官方说法之一——使得美国不可能掩盖这次行动。
As if those assertions weren’t significant enough, Hersh went on to make some even wilder claims. He wrote, for instance, that bin Laden had not been given a proper Islamic burial at sea; the SEALs threw his remains out of their helicopter. He claimed not just that the Pakistanis had seized bin Laden in 2006, but that Saudi Arabia had paid for his upkeep in the years that followed, and that the United States had instructed Pakistan to arrest an innocent man who was a sometime C.I.A. asset as the fall guy for the major in the Pakistani Army who had collected bin Laden’s DNA sample.
就好像嫌这些言论还不够重大似的，赫什继续作出了更大胆的论断。比如，他写道，本·拉登没有得到体面的伊斯兰海上葬礼；海豹突击队将他的遗骸扔出了直升机。他还称，巴基斯坦在2006年就抓到了本·拉登，沙特阿拉伯为他之后几年的生活费买单，美国则指使巴基斯坦逮捕了一名无辜男子，此人曾经有时为CIA做事，他成了收集本·拉登DNA样本的巴基斯坦军少校的替罪羊。
What was perhaps most shocking of all, though, was that this elaborate narrative was being unspooled not by some basement autodidact but by one of America’s greatest investigative reporters, the man who exposed the massacre of hundreds of Vietnamese civilians in the village of My Lai (1969), who revealed a clandestine C.I.A. program to spy on antiwar dissidents (1974) and who detailed the shocking story of the abuses at Abu Ghraib (2004). Could the bin Laden article be another major Hersh scoop?
不过，其中最让人吃惊的可能是，正在拆解这一详尽繁复的官方讲述的，不是某个没有背景的非专业人士，而是美国最好的调查记者之一，这名记者曾曝光美军在越南美莱村屠杀数百名越南平民的事件（1969年），曾揭露中央情报局(CIA)秘密监视反战异见分子的行动（1974年），还曾详细揭露惊人的阿布格莱布(Abu Ghraib )监狱虐囚事件。这篇有关本·拉登的文章会成为另一篇重要的赫什独家新闻吗？
‘‘It’s always possible,’’ Bowden told me. ‘‘But given the sheer number of people I talked to from different parts of government, for a lie to have been that carefully orchestrated and sustained to me gets into faked-moon-landing territory.’’ Other reporters have been less generous still. ‘‘What’s true in the story isn’t new, and what’s new in the story isn’t true,’’ said Peter Bergen of CNN, who wrote his own best-selling account of the hunting and killing of bin Laden, ‘‘Manhunt.’’ And government officials were least receptive of all. Josh Earnest, then the White House spokesman, said Hersh’s ‘‘story is riddled with inaccuracies and outright falsehoods.’’ Col. Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman, said it was ‘‘largely a fabrication.’’ (There were ‘‘too many inaccuracies to even bother going through them line by line.’’) The administration pretty much left it at that, though some of Hersh’s critics have pointed to classified documents made public by Edward Snowden revealing a long history of C.I.A. surveillance of the Abbottabad compound as proof that its location hadn’t simply been revealed by a walk-in.
“这种可能性一直都存在，”鲍登告诉我。“但考虑到我曾与那么多分属不同部门的政府工作人员交谈过，说他们如此精心策划和维持一个谎言，在我看来，简直无异于阿波罗登月造假说。”不过，其他记者就没这么客气。“在这篇报道里，真实的信息没什么新鲜，新的信息并不真实，”CNN的彼得·贝尔根(Peter Bergen)说，他著有关追捕和猎杀本·拉登的畅销书《搜捕》(Manhunt)。在所有人中，政府官员是最不买账的人。当时的白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说赫什讲述的“故事充满差错和彻头彻尾的谎言。”五角大楼发言人史蒂夫·沃伦上校(Col. Steve Warren)表示，它“基本上是杜撰”（里面有“太多不准确之处，让人懒得逐一指出。”）。美国政府基本上对此置之不理，不过一些赫什的批评者指出，从爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)公布的机密文件中可以看出，CIA曾长期监视位于阿伯塔巴德的那个院落，可以证明这个地点并非简单地来自一个“不请自来的人”。
This sort of reception is nothing new for Hersh. A Pentagon spokesman at the time of Abu Ghraib, Lawrence Di Rita, described one of his many (now unchallenged) articles for The New Yorker on the scandal as ‘‘the most hysterical piece of journalist malpractice I have ever observed.’’ Still, Hersh got worked up in some of the interviews he gave after the publication of the bin Laden piece. ‘‘I don’t care if you don’t like my story!’’ he told a public-radio host during one grilling. ‘‘I don’t care!’’ But with time, his petulance cooled into a kind of amusement. ‘‘High-camp’’ was one adjective he used to describe the administration’s version of the events.
这类反应对赫什来说一点也不新鲜。阿布格莱布事件曝光时，五角大楼发言人劳伦斯·迪里塔(Lawrence Di Rita)曾将他为《纽约客》撰写的多篇（现在已无人质疑）有关这一丑闻的文章中的一篇描述为，“我看到过的最不可理喻的一篇失职新闻报道。”但是在这篇本·拉登报道出炉后接受的多次参访中，赫什有时还是出现了大为光火的情况。“我不在乎你是不是喜欢我的报道！”在一次接受“盘问”时，他这样对一名公共电台主持人讲。“不在乎！”但是时间久了，他冷静下来，不再发脾气，还从中找到了一种乐趣。他会用“装腔作势”一词描述政府对这些事件的讲述。
At one point in our conversation, I reminded Hersh that I wasn’t going to offer a definitive judgment on what happened. I didn’t want to reinterview the administration officials who had already given their accounts of the events to other journalists. I saw this as more of a media story, a case study in how constructed narratives become accepted truth. This felt like a cop-out to him, as he explained in a long email the next day. He said that I was sidestepping the real issue, that I was ‘‘turning this into a ‘he-said, she-said’ dilemma,’’ instead of coming to my own conclusion about whose version was right. It was then that he introduced an even more disturbing notion: What if no one’s version could be trusted?
在交谈过程中，我曾提醒赫什，我不会对此事做出最终判断。我不想再去采访一遍已经跟其他记者谈过这些事的政府官员。我更多地把它看作一个媒体故事，一个有关精心建构的讲述变成公认的事实的案例分析。对赫什来说，这有点像是逃避，就像他在第二天写给我的长邮件中所解释的。他说我在回避真正的议题，说我是在“把这件事变成‘公说公有理，婆说婆有理’的难题，而不是就两种讲述哪个正确得出自己的结论。就是在那个时候，他又提出了一个更加让人不安的想法：要是两种说法都不可信呢？
‘‘Of course there is no reason for you or any other journalist to take what was said to me by unnamed sources at face value,’’ Hersh wrote. ‘‘But it is my view that there also is no reason for journalists to take at face value what a White House or administration spokesman said on or off the record in the aftermath or during a crisis.’’
“当然，你或者任何其他记者都没理由轻信匿名信源跟我讲的东西，”赫什写道。“但我觉得，记者们也没理由把白宫或政府机构发言人在危机期间或之后，公开或私下讲的话当真。”