Where does the official bin Laden story stand now? For many, it exists in a kind of liminal state, floating somewhere between fact and mythology. The writing of history is a process, and this story still seems to have a long way to go before the government’s narrative can be accepted as true, or rejected as false.
在猎杀本拉登(bin Laden)这一行动上，官方讲述的版本现在被如何看待？对很多人来说，它有点像是一种模棱两可的存在，介于事实和神话之间。历史的书写是一个过程，官方讲述要被作为事实接受，或被认为是造假而抛弃，似乎还要经过很长一段时间。
‘‘It’s all sort of hokey, the whole thing,’’ Robert Baer, a longtime C.I.A. case officer in the Middle East (and the inspiration for the George Clooney character in the movie ‘‘Syriana’’) told me of the government’s version of the events. ‘‘I’ve never seen a White House take that kind of risk. Did the president just wake up one morning and say, ‘Let’s put my presidency on the line right before an election?’ This guy is too smart to put 23 SEALs in harm’s way in a Hollywood-like assassination. He’s too smart.’’ Still, none of Baer’s old friends inside or outside the agency have challenged the administration’s account.
“这整件事的人工斧凿痕迹颇重，”曾常驻中东的美国中央情报局(CIA)前资深情报官员罗伯特·贝尔（Robert Baer，影片《辛瑞那》[Syriana]中乔治·克鲁尼[George Clooney]所饰演角色的原型。）跟我谈到官方对那些事件的讲述时表示。“我从没见过哪届政府敢冒那样的险。难道总统会一大早醒来就说，‘在选举之前，我们来拿我的总统职位冒个险吧？’这家伙太聪明了，不会让23名海豹突击队队员冒险进行犹如好莱坞电影情节的暗杀行动。他那么精明。”不过，贝尔在CIA内外的老朋友没有一个人公开质疑过政府对此事的描述。
Over time, many of Hersh’s claims could be proved right. What then? We may be justifiably outraged. Pakistan, our putative ally in the war on terror and the beneficiary of billions of dollars in U.S. taxpayer aid, would have provided refuge to our greatest enemy — the author of the very act that prompted us to invade Afghanistan. The audacious raid on bin Laden’s compound, our greatest victory in the war on terror, would have been little more than ‘‘a turkey shoot’’ (Hersh’s phrase). Above all, our government would have lied to us.
随着时间推移，赫什的很多主张可能会被证实是真的。然后呢？我们可能会理所当然地感到愤怒。曾接受美国纳税人提供的数以十亿美元计的援助、被我们看做共同打击恐怖主义的盟友的巴基斯坦，原来在庇护我们最大的敌人，一个一手策划了那场恐怖行动并促使我们后来入侵阿富汗的人。在本·拉登所在院落实施的大胆的突袭行动，我们在打击恐怖主义的战争中取得的最大的胜利，和“一场火鸡活靶射击比赛”无甚太大差异（赫什的用语）。尤其是，我们的政府原来对我们撒了谎。
But should we really be shocked by such a revelation? After all, it would barely register on a scale of government secrecy and deception that includes, in recent years alone, the N.S.A.’s covert wiretapping program and the C.I.A.’s off-the-books network of ‘‘black site’’ prisons. ‘‘White House public-affairs people are not historians, they are not scholars, they are not even journalists,’’ Steven Aftergood, director of the Project on Government Secrecy for the Federation of American Scientists, told me. ‘‘They are representing a political entity inside the United States government. Telling the whole truth and nothing but the truth is not their job, and even if it were their job, they would not necessarily be able to do it.’’
但我们真应该对这样的真相感到震惊吗？毕竟，单单和最近几年政府所实施的秘密行动和欺骗行为比起来，这都算不上什么，比如国家安全局(NSA)的秘密监听项目和CIA私下建立的“黑监狱”网络。“白宫负责公关事务的那些人不是历史学家、不是学者，甚至算不上媒体人，”美国科学家联合会(Federation of American Scientists)的政府机密项目(Project on Government Secrecy)负责人史蒂文·阿福特古德(Steven Aftergood)告诉我。“在美国政府里，他们代表的是一个政治实体。讲述完整的真相而且一点也不掺假，不是他们要做的事，而且即便这是职责所在，他们也不一定做得到。”
Hersh’s version doesn’t require us to believe in the possibility of a governmentwide conspiracy. Myths can be projected through an uncoordinated effort with a variety of people really just doing their jobs. Of course, when enough people are obscuring the truth, the results can seem, well, conspiratorial. Hersh is fond of pointing out that thousands of government employees and contractors presumably knew about the N.S.A.’s wiretapping, but only one, Edward Snowden, came forward.
接受赫什讲述的版本，并不意味着一定要相信政府的各个部门都可能参与在阴谋之中。哪怕其所作所为并不协调一致，但各种各样的人只要各司其责，就可能铸就那些神话。当然，有足够多的人在模糊真相的时候，结果可能让人感觉是一种阴谋。赫什喜欢指出，数以千计的政府员工和承包商可能都知道NSA的窃听行动，而只有爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)一个人站了出来。
We can go a step further: The more sensitive the subject, the more likely the government will be to feed us untruths. Consider our relationship with Pakistan, which Obama clearly had on his mind in the aftermath of the raid. In his address to the nation, Obama expressed his gratitude: ‘‘Over the years, I’ve repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we knew where bin Laden was. That is what we’ve done. But it’s important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound where he was hiding.’’
我们还可以进一步推测：话题越敏感，政府对我们撒谎的可能性就越大。想想我们和巴基斯坦的关系，袭击行动之后，奥巴马显然考虑到了这一点。在向全国人民通知此事时，他表达了自己的感激之情：“过去多年，我反复讲过，如果知道本拉登在巴基斯坦境内，我们会在那里采取行动。现在我们这么做了。但还需要指出比较重要的一点，那就是我们与巴基斯坦在打击恐怖主义方面的合作，帮助我们找到了本·拉登及其所隐藏的院落。”
Either the line in Obama’s statement wasn’t truthful or the administration’s subsequent disavowal of it wasn’t. But in either case, it’s hard to imagine that telling the whole truth was more important to Obama, or should have been more important, than managing America’s relationship with this unstable ally.
要么奥巴马之前的声明有假，要么政府随后的否认不实。但不管是哪种情况，我们都很难想象，对奥巴马而言，讲述整个真实情况，会比或应该比，维护美国与其不稳定的盟友之间的关系更重要。
There’s simply no reason to expect the whole truth from the government about the killing of bin Laden. If a tipper led the United States to his compound in Abbottabad, the administration could never say so without putting that individual’s life at risk and making it virtually impossible for the C.I.A. to recruit informants in the future. If Pakistan didn’t want us to acknowledge its cooperation with the raid, we wouldn’t, for fear of igniting the militant backlash Gall mentioned. Hersh himself has written — in The New Yorker — that there is a credible danger of extremists inside Pakistan’s military staging a coup and taking control of its large stockpile of nuclear weapons.
我们根本没什么理由期待政府会讲述有关猎杀本·拉登的实情。如果是泄密者把美国引到了那个本·拉登所藏身的位于阿伯塔巴德的院落，政府透露这一信息势必会让那个人的生命受到威胁，而且以后也基本上没人再敢做CIA的线人。如果巴基斯坦不希望美国承认它参与了这次袭击，我们就不会那么做，因为会担心引起加尔(Gall)提到过的那种武装力量反弹。赫什也在自己发表于《纽约客》(The New Yorker)的文章中写过，巴基斯坦军方内部的极端主义力量极有可能会上演一场政变，然后控制其核武器储备。
Reporters like to think of themselves as empiricists, but journalism is a soft science. Absent documentation, the grail of national-security reporting, they are only as good as their sources and their deductive reasoning. But what happens when different sources offer different accounts and deductive reasoning can be used to advance any number of contradictory arguments? How do we square Latif’s reporting in Abbottabad and Baer’s skepticism with the official story that Bowden and many others heard?
记者们喜欢自认是经验主义者，但新闻学是一种人文科学。在没有文件佐证这个国家安全报道领域的圣杯的情况下，他们就算再好，也无法超越他们的信源及他们自己的推理能力。但如果不同的信源提供了不同的说法，而演绎推论足以促成很多相互矛盾的说法，那又会如何？我们该如何正确看待拉蒂夫发自阿伯塔巴德的报道和贝尔的质疑与鲍登(Bowden)和其他许多人听到的官方讲述之间的差距？
‘‘As a reporter in this world,’’ Bowden told me, ‘‘you have to always allow for the possibility that you are being lied to, you hope for good reason.’’
“作为记者，在当今这个世界，”鲍登告诉我，“你必须时刻考虑到，自己正在听到的有可能是谎言，而且希望这背后能有良好的动机。”
We may already know far more about the bin Laden raid than we were ever supposed to. In his 2014 memoir ‘‘Duty,’’ the former secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, wrote that everyone who gathered in the White House Situation Room on the night of the raid had agreed to ‘‘keep mum on the details.’’ ‘‘That commitment lasted about five hours,’’ he added, pointing his finger directly at the White House and the C.I.A: ‘‘They just couldn’t wait to brag and to claim credit.’’
关于猎杀本·拉登的袭击行动，我们已经知道的可能已经远远多于应该知道的。前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)在其2014年出版的回忆录《责任》(Duty)中写道，在袭击行动进行的那个晚上，每个出现在白宫局势研究室(Situation Room)内的人都曾承诺“为那些细节保密”。“那个诺言只维持了五小时，”他接着写道，谴责的对象直指白宫和CIA：“他们迫不及待地要大肆夸耀和邀功。”
The problem is that amid all of this bragging, it became impossible to know what was true and what wasn’t. Recall ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty,’’ which grossed $130 million at the box office and was in many ways the dominant narrative of the killing of bin Laden. The filmmakers, in numerous interviews, went out of their way to promote their access to government and military sources: The opening credits announced that the film was based on ‘‘firsthand accounts of actual events.’’ And, as a trove of documents made public via the Freedom of Information Act amply demonstrated, the C.I.A. eagerly cooperated with the filmmakers, arranging for the writer and director to meet with numerous analysts and officers who were identified as being involved in the hunt for bin Laden. The director, Kathryn Bigelow, has described the film as ‘‘the first rough cut of history.’’
问题是，在这些夸耀之辞中，我们无法再分辨出，哪些为真，哪些为假。现在想来，狂卷1.3亿美元票房的影片《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)，从很大程度上讲，是有关刺杀本·拉登的主流版本的讲述。电影制作方在无数个采访中，特意宣传自己可以从政府和军方获取信息：电影片头的字幕就宣告，该影片是根据“真实事件的一手资料”拍摄。正如大量经由《自由信息法》(Freedom of Information Act)被公之于众的文件所充分显示的，CIA曾热心配合这部电影的制作方，安排编剧和导演与很多据称参与了猎杀本·拉登行动的分析员和官员会面。该片导演凯瑟琳·毕格罗(Kathryn Bigelow)称它是“那段历史的第一个初剪版本”。
This was a story that was so good it didn’t need to be fictionalized, or so it seemed. It began with a series of C.I.A.-led torture sessions, which the movie suggested provided the crucial break in the hunt for bin Laden. Only they didn’t, at least according to a report conducted over the course of many years by the Senate Intelligence Committee (and others with access to classified information). Senator Dianne Feinstein, who oversaw the report as the committee’s chairwoman, said she walked out of a screening of the film. ‘‘I couldn’t handle it,’’ she said. ‘‘Because it’s so false.’’ The filmmakers’ intent had presumably been to tell a nuanced story — the ugly truth of how we found bin Laden — but in so doing, they seem to have perpetuated a lie.
这个故事这么好，或者说看起来很好，都不需要再进行虚构。开头是CIA主导的一系列严刑拷问，电影暗示这些拷问为猎杀本·拉登找到了关键的突破口。只不过，情况并不是这样的，至少参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)和其他掌握机密信息的机构历时多年完成的一份报告不予苟同。负责监督该报告撰写工作的委员会主席、参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)表示，她在影片播放的中途就离场了。“我看不下去，”她说。“因为太假了。”电影制作方的意图可能是讲述一个有着微妙之处的故事——有关我们如何找到本·拉登的骇人真相——但是在这么做的过程中，他们似乎让一个谎言延续了下去。
It’s not that the truth about bin Laden’s death is unknowable; it’s that we don’t know it. And we can’t necessarily console ourselves with the hope that we will have more answers any time soon; to this day, the final volume of the C.I.A.’s official history of the Bay of Pigs remains classified. We don’t know what happened more than a half-century ago, much less in 2011.
有关本·拉登之死的真相，并非无法获知；只是我们还不知道。我们也可能无法用很快会得到更多答案的想法安慰自己；直到今天，CIA还没有公布有关猪湾事件的最终官方历史描述。发生在半个多世纪以前的事，我们都还不清楚，更不用说2011年的了。
There are different ways to control a narrative. There’s the old-fashioned way: Classify documents that you don’t want seen and, as Gates said, ‘‘keep mum on the details.’’ But there’s also the more modern, social-media-savvy approach: Tell the story you want them to believe. Silence is one way to keep a secret. Talking is another. And they are not mutually exclusive.
有不同的方式，可以让人控制对一件事情的讲述。比较老式的方法是：将不想被人看到的文件划为机密，然后像盖茨所说的那样，“对细节保密”。不过，还有一种更现代、更多利用社交媒体的方式：讲述你想让人们相信的那个故事。沉默是一种保密的办法，讲述是另一种，而且二者并不相互排斥。
‘‘I love the notion that the government isn’t riddled with secrecy,’’ Hersh told me toward the end of our long day together. ‘‘Are you kidding me? They keep more secrets than you can possibly think. There’s stuff going on right now that I know about — amazing stuff that’s going on. I’ll write about it when I can. There’s stuff going out right now, amazing stuff in the Middle East. Are you kidding me? Of course there is. Of course there is.’’
“我也希望政府没那么多秘密，”在我们共度的漫长的一天即将结束时，赫什告诉我。“但是开什么玩笑？他们的秘密比你能想到的都多。我知道现在就有一些事正在发生，一些让人吃惊的事。能写的时候，我会把它写出来。就是现在，有一些让人震惊的事正在自中东散布出来。开什么玩笑？政府当然有秘密，当然会有。”