RIO DE JANEIRO — In the aftermath of Chile’s 1973 military coup, the Nobel Prize-winning poet and diplomat Pablo Neruda was found dead. Although he was long thought to have perished from prostate cancer, a judge recently ordered his remains exhumed from a grave overlooking the Pacific Ocean to investigate claims that he was poisoned.
里约热内卢——1973年智利发生军事政变过后，诺贝尔文学奖获奖诗人和外交家巴勃罗·聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)去世了。虽然长期以来，人们都认为他的死因是前列腺癌，但最近，一名法官下令，从一座俯瞰太平洋的坟墓中挖出他的遗骸，以调查他被人毒杀的说法。
The same year as Chile’s coup, soldiers in the Dominican Republic executed Francisco Caamaño, a guerrilla leader and former president. Forensic experts recently unearthed remains thought to be his, four decades after he was killed, in hopes of identifying and depositing them in the Dominican Republic’s pantheon of heroes.
智利政变的同一年，多米尼加共和国的士兵处决了游击队领导人和前总统弗兰西斯科·卡玛尼奥(Francisco Caamaño)。就在他被杀的四十年后，法医专家最近挖出据称属于他的遗骸，希望加以识别，并将其葬在多米尼加共和国的英雄圣殿里。
Ghosts are also stirring in Brazil, as officials examine claims that two former civilian presidents, João Goulart and Juscelino Kubitschek, were assassinated in 1976. Lacking proof, investigators say they will soon exhume Mr. Goulart, to see if he was poisoned by spies while in exile in Argentina, and Mr. Kubitschek’s driver, to determine whether a sniper caused the car crash that killed them both.
在巴西，亡灵也不得安息。官员们正在调查两位前任文职总统若昂·古拉特(João Goulart)和儒塞利诺·库比契克(Juscelino Kubitschek)在1976年被暗杀的说法。调查人员表示，由于缺乏证据，他们很快会挖出古拉特的遗体，以判断他是否在阿根廷流亡期间被间谍毒死。库比契克的司机的遗体也会被挖掘出来，以确定库比契克遭遇车毁人亡是否狙击手所为。
In country after country, Latin America is experiencing a wave of exhumations, reflecting not only the difficulty some political figures have finding serenity in the afterlife, but also the region’s willingness to resurrect unresolved questions and quarrels over its history, even if it literally involves digging up the past.
在拉丁美洲，掘尸热潮正在一个又一个国家出现，这不仅表现出一些政治人物在死后仍难以得到安息，而且也显示了该地区愿意重提历史上悬而未决的问题和争执，即使这需要真正动手去挖掘过去。
“Where history is not settled, the heroic dead continue to speak,” said Lyman Johnson, a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, who has explored Latin America’s tradition of exhumations.
“历史上凡有存疑之处，逝去的英雄就会继续发出声音，”莱曼·约翰逊(Lyman Johnson)说，他是北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)的荣休教授，研究过拉丁美洲挖掘遗骸的传统。
Observers have been awed by some of the recent exhumations, like President Hugo Chávez’s 2010 televised disenterment in Venezuela of Simón Bolívar, a hero of South America’s independence wars, in an unsuccessful attempt to prove he died from arsenic poisoning by Colombian oligarchs. Historians still generally agree that tuberculosis killed Bolívar.
观察家们对近来的一些掘尸行动感到无比惊诧。比如2010年，委内瑞拉总统乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)在电视上播出了挖出南美独立战争英雄西蒙·玻利瓦尔(Simón Bolívar)遗骸的过程，希望证明他是被哥伦比亚寡头政治家用砷毒死的，但没有成功。历史学家仍然普遍认为，玻利瓦尔死于结核病。
Other exhumations have attracted relatively little attention, like Ecuador’s decision in 2007 to transfer the ashes of José Eloy Alfaro, a former president who was beheaded, dismembered and burned by a mob in 1912, from coastal Guayaquil to a monument in his birthplace, the city of Montecristi.
其他一些掘尸行动吸引的关注相对较少，比如厄瓜多尔2007年决定把前总统何塞·埃洛伊·阿尔法罗(José Eloy Alfaro)的骨灰，从沿海的瓜亚基尔转移到他的出生地蒙特克里斯蒂的一座纪念堂。阿尔法罗在1912年被暴徒斩首、肢解并焚烧。
The recent cycle of exhumations points to earlier patterns in the region, which has a tradition of digging up prominent corpses and submitting them to remarkably intrusive scrutiny, all the while contending that the exercise is for political purposes.
最近的一轮掘尸活动也揭示了这个地区早期的一些行为模式。该地区向来有挖掘名人尸体，对其进行侵入式检查的传统，一边挖一边还声称这是出于政治目的。
Some traditional centers of exhumation fever, like Mexico, have actually calmed down somewhat. Back in the 1920s, Mexican leaders were exhuming major figures from the War of Independence, placing them in a monument. Gone, too, is Mexico’s frenzy in the 1940s over disputed remains of the Aztec ruler Cuauhtémoc and the Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés.
一些传统的掘尸活动活跃的国家，比如墨西哥，实际上已经多少平静一点了。在20世纪20年代，墨西哥领导者曾下令挖掘独立战争时期重要人物的遗骸，并将它们安置在纪念堂里。墨西哥20世纪40年代对阿兹台克统治者考乌特莫克(Cuauhtémoc)和西班牙征服者埃尔南·科尔特斯(Hernán Cortés)遗骸的狂热争议，也已经消散了。
Now other countries, with Chile at the forefront, seem to be picking up the slack. Salvador Allende, the Chilean president toppled in the 1973 coup, was exhumed in 2011 so that investigators could determine whether he had committed suicide or been killed by his adversaries as they stormed the presidential palace. They concluded that he killed himself with an AK-47 assault rifle, confirming the official story.
现在，其他国家似乎重拾了这一传统，首当其冲的就是智利。1973年政变中被推翻的智利总统萨尔瓦多·阿连德(Salvador Allende)，其遗骸在2011年被挖掘出来，因为调查人员希望确定他究竟是自杀的，还敌对势力在冲进总统府的时候杀死了他。他们得出的结论证实了官方说法，阿连德是用一把的AK-47冲锋枪自杀的。
A previous exhumation in 2004 in Chile of Eduardo Frei Montalva, president from 1964 to 1970, produced remarkable findings that encouraged new exhumations in Chile and beyond. While doctors had originally said that Mr. Frei Montalva died in 1982 from complications after surgery to treat a stomach ailment, investigators concluded that he had been poisoned with small doses of mustard gas and thallium, a highly toxic heavy metal.
在2004年，智利挖出了1964年至1970年间任总统的爱德华多·弗雷·蒙塔尔瓦(Eduardo Frei Montalva)的遗骸，取得惊人发现，激励了智利和其他国家开展更多掘尸行动。虽然医生原本说，弗雷·蒙塔尔瓦在1982年死于胃病治疗手术的并发症，但调查人员得出结论，他是被小剂量的芥子气和剧毒重金属铊毒杀的。
Latin America is far from the only region where political or intellectual figures are unearthed, as shown by the 2012 exhumation of Yasir Arafat, the longtime Palestinian leader, to examine poisoning claims, and Spain’s attempts to find and identify the remains of the poet Federico García Lorca and others killed during the Spanish Civil War.
挖掘政治人物或文化名人遗骸的地方远不止拉丁美洲一个，举例来说，巴勒斯坦长期领袖亚西尔·阿拉法特(Yasir Arafat)的遗体在2012年被挖出来，以核实他是否中毒而亡；西班牙也采用遗骸挖掘的方式，希望发现和识别出诗人费德里科·加西亚·洛尔卡(Federico García Lorca)，以及其他在西班牙内战中被杀的人。
But whether to solve the mysteries of death or promote tales of heroism, Latin America is a region where digging up the dead and sometimes even mutilating their remains have long been a fixture of politics. Scholars say the practice may be the secularized continuation of customs from the time of early Christianity, when a vibrant trade involved the body parts of saints.
然而无论是解开死亡之谜，还是宣扬英雄主义故事，在拉丁美洲，掘出死者遗骸，有时甚至是肢解他们的遗体，长期以来都是一种政治传统。学者们说，这种做法可能是一种早期基督教习俗的世俗化延续，在当时，涉及圣徒身体部位的交易非常活跃。
Brazil, Latin America’s largest country, has its own precedents, including the transport of remains across the Atlantic Ocean to reinforce the narrative of Brazil’s emergence as an independent nation. In the 1930s, the authoritarian regime of Getúlio Vargas collected the remains of the Inconfidentes, participants in an 18th-century separatist movement, from burial places in Africa, where they had died in exile, and reburied them in Minas Gerais State.
拉丁美洲最大的国家巴西也有其自身的先例，比如把遗骸运送过大西洋，以支持巴西作为一个独立国家崛起的叙述。在20世纪30年代，热图利奥·瓦尔加斯(Getúlio Vargas)的独裁政权也挖掘过“阴谋者”(Inconfidentes)的遗骸。“阴谋者”是18世纪的一个分裂主义运动的参与者，死于流放地非洲。他们的遗骸被从非洲的安葬处挖出，重新埋在巴西的米纳斯吉拉斯州。
And in 1972, military rulers exhumed Pedro I, the first emperor of an independent Brazil, in Portugal and transferred his remains to a São Paulo monument. (Curiously, this operation did not include Pedro I’s heart, which remains in a church in Porto, Portugal, as requested in his will.)
1972年，军事统治者从葡萄牙挖出巴西独立后第一任皇帝佩德罗一世(Pedro I)的遗骸，将其转移到圣保罗纪念堂（奇怪的是，转移的遗体不包括佩德罗一世的心脏，根据他的遗嘱要求，这颗心仍然留在在葡萄牙波尔图的一座教堂里）。
Pedro I was removed from his imperial crypt yet again this year as an object of scientific study, reflecting advances in biochemical analysis and DNA testing. Other exhumations here involve using those methods to delve into more recent mysteries, as in the case of Mr. Goulart, the president toppled in a 1964 coup supported by the United States.
今年，佩德罗一世的遗骸被再次从皇家陵墓中取出，作为科学研究的对象，以显示生化分析和DNA测试的进步。巴西的其他掘尸活动是借助了这一方式来解开近期的奥秘，比如古拉特的例子。1964年，古拉特总统在一次由美国支持的政变中被推翻。
Pointing to testimony from a former Uruguayan intelligence operative, Mr. Goulart’s family claims that he did not die in exile in Argentina at age 58 from a heart attack, as reported in 1976, but from poisoning by agents of Operation Condor, a joint campaign by South American military dictatorships during the 1970s and ’80s to collaborate on the kidnapping and killing of political dissidents.
古拉特的家人称，根据乌拉圭一位前情报人员的证词，他不像1976年报道中说的那样，58岁时在流亡中死于阿根廷，死因是心肌梗死，实际上他是被秃鹰行动(Operation Condor)的特工毒杀的。秃鹰行动是南美军事独裁政权在20世纪70、80年代开展的一个联合行动，旨在绑架和杀害持不同政见者。
“Everything leads us to believe he was killed,” said João Vicente Goulart, 56, a businessman who is a son of the president. “All we need is proof.”
“所有事情都让我们相信他是被杀的，现在唯一需要的就是证据。”该总统之子、56岁的商人若昂·比森特·古拉特(João Vicente Goulart)说。
A truth commission examining the abuses of Brazil’s long dictatorship is now preparing to exhume Mr. Goulart; the move is supported even by those who disagree with the theory that he was poisoned.
一个考察巴西长期独裁统治恶行的真相委员会正准备挖掘古拉特的遗骸；即使不相信他被毒杀的人也支持这一做法。
“His remains must be examined, if only to deal with the conspiracy theories and allow him to rest peacefully,” said Iberê Athayde Teixeira, a writer in São Borja, the city in southern Brazil where Mr. Goulart is buried.
“就算仅仅是为了击破阴谋论，让他得到安息，都必须检查他的遗体，”巴西南部城市圣博尔哈的一名作家伊博尔·阿泰德·特谢拉(Iberê Athayde Teixeira)说。古拉特就被埋葬在圣博尔哈。
Echoing Chile’s recent experiences, some of Brazil’s new exhumations, while rooted in disputed political history, have a character distinct from some disenterments of decades past.
跟智利最近的一些行动相呼应，巴西新进行的一些掘尸工作，虽然植根于存在争议的政治史，但也带有一个不同于几十年前这类行动的特征。
“This is a democratic regime that is eventually, and at long last, coming to terms with its past,” said Kenneth Maxwell, a British historian and columnist for the newspaper Folha de São Paulo. “It is not aimed at the creation of myths but is an attempt to uncover what was at times a very ugly past.”
“这个民主政权长期以来都没有直面过去，最后它终于这么做了，”肯尼思·麦克斯韦(Kenneth Maxwell)说。他是英国历史学家，也是《圣保罗页报》(Folha de São Paulo)的专栏作家。“这样做不是为了创造神话，而是试图发现有时很不光彩的过去。”