Hersh may have been the first journalist to write that a secret informant had steered the United States to bin Laden’s compound, but he was by no means the only one who had heard this rumor. Coll was another. ‘‘In my case, it was described to me as a specific Pakistani officer in the intelligence service,’’ Coll, the author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning book about the C.I.A. and Afghanistan, told me one afternoon in his office at Columbia. ‘‘I even had a name that I’ve been working on for four years.’’
是一名秘密线人提供的线索将美国引至本·拉登所在院落这种说法，可能是由赫什(Hersh)第一个报道，但他绝不是唯一一个听到过这一传言的人。科尔(Coll)也听说过。“我所知道的是，有人向我形容了巴基斯坦情报机构一个有名有姓的官员，”一天下午科尔在他位于哥伦比亚市的办公室里对我说，他曾以一本有关美国中央情报局(CIA)和阿富汗的著作获得普利策奖。“我甚至还花了四年时间调查这个人。”
Intuitively, the notion of a walk-in makes sense. Secret informants have led the United States to virtually every high-value terrorist target tracked to Pakistan, including Ramzi Yousef, the first World Trade Center bomber, and Mir Aimal Kansi, who killed two C.I.A. employees in an attack on Langley in 1993. ‘‘The idea that the C.I.A. stitched this together, and torture worked and they found the car and they found the courier, then they found the license plate and they followed it to the house — that had always seemed to those of us on the beat like it was very elaborate,’’ Coll said.
从直觉上讲，由线人提供消息的想法有一定道理。对美国而言，来自巴基斯坦的影响比较大的恐怖分子，基本上都是依据线人提供的消息找到的，这包括第一个在世贸中心制造炸弹恐怖袭击事件的拉姆齐·优素福(Ramzi Yousef)，以及1993年袭击CIA总部造成两名CIA员工死亡的米尔·艾马尔·坎斯(Mir Aimal Kansi)。“一种说法是，CIA拼凑起了所有线索，其严刑拷问起了作用，他们找到了那辆车，找到那位信使，之后找到那个车牌，由此找到那座房子。但这种说法对我们这些每天接触这类信息的人来说，好像太过精细复杂，”科尔说。
But Coll has never been able to confirm the tipper story. The closest he came was a conversation with an American intelligence officer who had worked with the man said to have been the informant. ‘‘I said, ‘Do you know this guy?’ ’’ Coll recalled. ‘‘He said: ‘Yeah, I do know him. I used to work very closely with him.’ I said, ‘Is this bio that I’ve been given accurate?’ He said, ‘Yeah, it’s accurate.’ I said, ‘I’ve been told he took the $25 million and is in witness protection.’ He paused, and he said, ‘Hmm, that’s the sort of thing he would do.’ ’’
但科尔一直没能找到证据确认前一种说法。最为接近的佐证是和一位美国情报官员的谈话，这位官员曾与那位传言中的线人一起共事。“我问，‘你认识这个人吗？’”科尔回忆。“他说：‘对，我认识他。过去跟他密切合作过。’我说，‘我拿到的这个简介上的信息准确吗？’他说，‘是，上面写的没错。’我说，‘有人告诉我，他拿了那2500万美元的赏金，现在处于证人保护计划之下。’他停顿了一下，然后说，‘嗯，那像是他会做的事。’”
From the beginning, it seemed hard to believe that high-level Pakistani officials weren’t aware of bin Laden’s presence in their country; several U.S. officials even publicly said as much in the aftermath of the raid. Pakistan conducted its own secret investigation into the matter, which was leaked to Al Jazeera in 2013. The Abbottabad Commission Report, as it was known, found no evidence that Pakistan was harboring bin Laden. Instead, it concluded that the world’s most wanted man was able to move freely around the country for nine years because of widespread incompetence among military and intelligence authorities.
从一开始，有些人似乎很难相信巴基斯坦高层官员会不知道本·拉登就在自己国家境内；好几位美国官员甚至在突袭事件发生之后公开表达了这种疑问。巴基斯坦也就此事展开了秘密调查，调查结果在2013 年被泄漏给半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)。这份名为阿伯塔巴德委员会报告(Abbottabad Commission Report)的文件显示，没有证据可以证明巴基斯坦当时在为本·拉登提供庇护。相反，它还得出如下结论，即由于巴基斯坦军方和情报机构工作人员的广泛失职，这名全球头号通缉犯在过去九年里一直得以在巴基斯坦境内自由活动。
The most detailed exploration of the question of Pakistani complicity in sheltering bin Laden appeared in this magazine in March 2014. It came from a book written by a Times correspondent, Carlotta Gall, who reported that a source inside the I.S.I. told her that Pakistan’s intelligence service ran a special desk assigned to handle bin Laden. ‘‘The desk was wholly deniable by virtually everyone at the I.S.I. — such is how supersecret intelligence units operate — but the top military bosses knew about it, I was told,’’ Gall wrote.
在巴基斯坦是否曾为本·拉登提供庇护这个问题上，最为详细的调查，出现在2014年3月的《纽约时报杂志》上。这篇文章摘自时报记者卡洛塔·加尔(Carlotta Gall)写的一本书，文中她讲道，一名来自三军情报局(ISI)内部的信源告诉她，巴基斯坦的情报机构设有一个办公室，专门处理有关本·拉登的事务。“ISI里几乎所有人都不清楚有这样一个部门——绝密情报部门就是这么运作的——但有人跟我说，军方高层领导知道它的存在，”加尔写道。
More controversial is Hersh’s claim that Pakistan knew in advance about the SEAL team raid and allowed it to proceed, even helped facilitate it. This is the starkest departure from the standard story as it was reported previously. Logically, it would require us to accept that the U.S. government trusted the Pakistanis to help it kill bin Laden, and that the humiliation that Pakistan’s military and intelligence reportedly felt in the aftermath of the raid was either a ruse or the product of some even deeper U.S.-Pakistani intrigue. Is there any evidence to support this claim or, really, anything we can latch onto beyond Hersh’s unnamed sources?
更具争议性的是，赫什称巴基斯坦事先知道海豹突击队的突袭行动，而且允许它继续进行，甚至帮助它促成此事。这与之前报道的标准故事版本相差甚远。从逻辑上讲，这需要我们接受如下信息，即美国政府足够信任巴基斯坦，同意让它帮助猎杀本·拉登，而传闻中巴基斯坦军方和情报机构在袭击行动发生后感到羞辱，这要么是一种策略，要么就是美国和巴基斯坦之间存在更深层的阴谋带来了这种反应。有什么证据可以支持这种说法，或者存在任何赫什的匿名信源之外的真的能让人取信的东西？
Eleven days after the raid, an unbylined story appeared on GlobalPost, an American website specializing in foreign reporting. The dateline was Abbottabad; the story was headlined: ‘‘Bin Laden Raid: Neighbors Say Pakistan Knew.’’ A half-dozen people who lived near bin Laden’s compound told the reporter that plainclothes security personnel — ‘‘either Pakistani intelligence or military officers’’ — knocked on their doors a couple of hours before the raid and instructed them to turn the lights off and remain indoors until further notice. Some local people also told the reporter that they were directed not to speak to the media, especially the foreign media.
猎杀行动过去11天后，专门做国外新闻报道的美国网站《环球邮报》(GlobalPost)发表了一篇没有署名的文章。它来自阿伯塔巴德；标题为：《邻居称巴基斯坦提前就知道》(Bin Laden Raid: Neighbors Say Pakistan Knew)。居住在本·拉登所在院落附近的6个人告诉这名记者，在袭击发生之前几个小时，有便衣安全人员——“要么来自巴基斯坦情报机构，要么来自军方”——上门要求他们把灯关掉，并且要他们在得到下一步通知前一直待在室内。一些当地人也告诉记者，他们被嘱咐不能接受媒体采访，尤其是外国媒体。
When I contacted the chief executive of GlobalPost, Philip Balboni, he told me he considered trying to aggressively publicize this narrative when he first posted it. ‘‘[B]ut that would have required resources that we did not possess at the time, and the information against it was so overwhelming that even we had to wonder if our sources were right,’’ he wrote me in an email.
联系到《环球邮报》首席执行官菲利普·巴尔博尼(Philip Balboni)后，他告诉我，一开始推出那篇文章时，他考虑过对这种说法进行大肆宣传。“但那需要有素材支撑，而我们当时没有，与之相悖的信息反倒占绝对上风，所以连我们自己都得思忖一下，手上的东西是不是靠谱，”他在一封发给我的邮件中写道。
Balboni put me in touch with the reporter, Aamir Latif, a 41-year-old Pakistani journalist. Latif, a former foreign correspondent for U.S. News and World Report, told me that he traveled to Abbottabad the day after bin Laden was killed and reported there for a couple of days. I asked him if he still believed that there was some level of Pakistani awareness of the raid. ‘‘Not awareness,’’ he answered instantly. ‘‘There was coordination and cooperation.’’
巴尔博尼帮我联系上了那篇文章的作者、41岁的巴基斯坦记者阿米尔·拉蒂夫(Aamir Latif)，他之前曾担任《美国新闻与世界报道》(U.S. News and World Report)杂志驻外记者。拉蒂夫告诉我，他在本·拉登被猎杀的第二天就去了阿伯塔巴德，并在那里做了好几天的报道。我问他，是否依然觉得巴基斯坦在某种程度上知道那场突袭行动。“不是知晓的问题，”他马上回答。“是协调与合作。”
Latif, who kept his name off the original post because of the sensitivity of the subject in Pakistan, said that people in the area told him that they heard the U.S. helicopters and that surely the Pakistani military had, too: ‘‘The whole country was awake, only the Pakistani Army was asleep? What does that suggest to you?’’ Gall has also written that bin Laden’s neighbors heard the explosions at the compound and contacted the local police, but that army commanders told the police to stand down and leave the response to the military. The SEALs were on the ground for 40 minutes, but the Pakistani Army didn’t arrive until after they had left.
考虑到这个话题在巴基斯坦的敏感性，拉蒂夫在最初发表文章时并没有署名。他说当地人告诉他，当时他们听到了美国直升机的声音，巴基斯坦军方肯定也听到了，“整个国家都醒着，只有巴基斯坦军方睡着了？你觉得这说明什么？”加尔也写道，住在本·拉登所在院落附近的人听到那里传来爆炸声，便联系了当地警方，但军队指挥官告诉警方退后，由军方来处理这件事。海豹突击队的地面行动进行了40分钟，但巴基斯坦军队直到他们离开后才到达。
Gall’s best guess (and she emphasizes that it is just a guess) is that the United States alerted Pakistan to the bin Laden operation at the 11th hour. ‘‘I have no proof, but the more I think about it and the more I talk to Pakistani friends, the more I think it’s probably true that Kayani and Pasha were in on it,’’ Gall told me, referring to Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, who was then the chief of the army staff, and Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, then the director general of the I.S.I. As for killing bin Laden, she said: ‘‘The scenario I imagine is that the Americans watched him and tracked him and never told the Pakistanis because they didn’t trust them, but when they decided to go ahead with the raid, I think they might have gone to Kayani and Pasha and said, ‘We’re going in, and don’t you dare shoot down our helicopters or else.’ ’’ (I should note that not every national-­security reporter, including some at The Times, agrees with Gall about the likelihood of high-level Pakistani complicity in either harboring bin Laden or helping kill him.)
加尔认为，最大的可能是（她强调这只是一种猜测），美国在开始行动的前一刻通知了巴基斯坦，“我没有证据，但是想得越多，和巴基斯坦朋友交流得越多，就越觉得卡亚尼(Kayani)和帕沙(Pasha)可能真的知道此事，”加尔告诉我，她指的是当时的巴基斯坦陆军总参谋长阿什法克·帕尔韦兹·卡亚尼上将(Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani)和三军情报局局长艾哈迈德·舒亚·帕沙上将(Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha)。她说：“我的猜测是，美国监视和跟踪他，但从来没有告诉过巴基斯坦，因为不信任他们，但当他们觉得要开始行动时，有可能联系了卡亚尼和帕沙，对他们说，‘我们要进去了，要是敢击落我们的直升机或采取别的什么行动，有你们好看。’”（需要指出的是，不是所有报道国家安全问题的记者，包括一些供职于《纽约时报》的，都认同加尔的这种猜测，即巴基斯坦高层可能与此事有关，他们要么包庇了本·拉登，要么帮助美国猎杀了他。）
Following Gall’s scenario to its logical conclusion, Pakistan would have faced an unappealing choice after the raid: acknowledge that it had cooperated and risk angering hard-liners for betraying bin Laden and abetting a U.S. military operation on Pakistani soil, or plead ignorance and incompetence.
如果按照加尔推测的剧情往下推演，符合逻辑的结论是，袭击结束后，巴基斯坦将面临不太好的选择：要么承认自己配合了这次行动，这有可能会惹怒强硬派，因为这算是背叛了本·拉登，在巴基斯坦的领土上配合美军行动；要么声称自己对此事不知情，而这等于承认自己无能。
‘‘The Pakistanis often fall back on, ‘We were incompetent,’ ’’ Gall said. ‘‘They don’t want their countrymen to know what they’re playing at. They fear there will be a backlash.’’
“巴基斯坦经常拿‘我们无能’当挡箭牌，”加尔说。“他们不想让自己的国民知道自己所扮演的角色，因为担心会引来激烈反应。”