PARIS — Dace Utinane, a doctor at a private health center, frowned during a stroll this week through Riga, the capital of Latvia, as she contemplated her country’s move to become the newest member of Europe’s currency union.
巴黎——本周在拉脱维亚首都里加散步时，在一家私立医疗中心工作的黛斯·乌提纳尼(Dace Utinane)医生露出不满的表情，她在思考自己的国家成为欧洲货币联盟新成员国的事。
“I don’t like it — the euro is not my money,” said Dr. Utinane, arching an eyebrow. “This has been dictated by people from above. But we’re too small to do something about it and protest against it.”
“我不喜欢——欧元不是我的钱，”乌提纳尼医生皱着眉头说，“这是被上面那些人强加的。我们太弱小，对此无能为力，也没法反抗。”
In the halls of power, European leaders are taking a starkly different view. On Wednesday, as Latvia became the 18th country to join the euro, they promoted it as a sign that the currency union — even with wrenching growing pains that included threats of a breakup — is on a long-term path to achieving its founders’ vision of continued expansion.
但在权力的中心，欧洲领导人们的看法却截然不同。周三拉脱维亚成为第18个加入欧元区的国家时，他们将此事宣扬为一种征兆，预示着货币联盟正在一条长远的道路上，向着创始人们的持续扩张构想迈进——尽管它的成长伴随着许多痛苦，包括几次险些破裂。
“Despite the negative headline of the crisis, the basic promise of peace, prosperity and freedom to travel and work still have their appeal,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “So the process of euro enlargement has not come to an end.”
“虽然有危机带来的负面报道，和平、繁荣和旅行与工作的自由这些基本承诺还是有其吸引力的，”贝仑贝格银行(Berenberg Bank)驻伦敦首席经济学家豪尔格·施米耶丁(Holger Schmieding)说，“所以欧元区的扩大进程并没有到头。”
How quickly it will grow is another question. While most of the European Union’s 28 member countries are obliged eventually to ditch their national money for Europe’s single currency, skepticism among European citizens about the euro union is still alive in many corners.
增长能有多快就是另一个问题了。按照规则，欧盟28个成员国最终都是要放弃本国货币，使用欧洲单一货币，但是依然时常能见到欧洲各国民众对欧元联盟的质疑。
Lithuania is on track to be next in adopting the currency, in 2015. Like Latvia, its neighbor and fellow former Soviet republic, it is eager to link itself to the West, an imperative that has grown starker as Russia seeks to keep a grasp on Ukraine despite recent pro-Western protests there.
2015年，立陶宛将成为下一个采用这种货币的国家。和同为前苏联共和国的邻国拉脱维亚一样，立陶宛渴望将自己和西方联系起来，在看到乌克兰被俄罗斯牢牢掌握，即便近日发起了亲西方抗议活动也无法挣脱后，这种联系西方的需求显得愈发紧迫。
After 2015, however, euro zone enlargement is set to slow. In Eastern Europe, several countries have not even taken the first step required for euro membership by entering the exchange rate mechanism, a sort of waiting room. The Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland have all pushed back their target dates for euro zone membership until near the end of the decade in the face of low public support.
然而到了2015年以后，欧元区的扩大步伐将放缓。在东欧，一些国家甚至都还没有加入汇率机制，那是加入欧元区的第一步，类似某种候车室。捷克共和国、匈牙利和波兰由于公众支持度不高，也都将加入欧元区的计划推迟到了将近2010年代末。
Smaller nations, including Romania and Croatia, which joined the European Union last year, have said they are unlikely to adopt the euro until around 2020, partly because their economies cannot quickly meet the criteria. Those include achieving a deficit of 3 percent of gross domestic product and keeping debt to 60 percent of the annual gross domestic product.
一些较小的国家，比如罗马尼亚和去年加入欧盟的克罗地亚，已经表示它们至少要到2020年前后才有可能加入欧元区，这跟它们的经济在一段时间内无法达到标准要求有一定关系。这份标准包括财政赤字在国内生产总值中的占比低于3%，债务保持在年度国内生产总值的60%以下。
Around half of Latvians opposed joining the euro, although support rose toward the end of the year.
大约半数的拉脱维亚人反对加入欧元区，不过支持率到年末已有所上升。
Part of the reluctance among euro-skeptics, economists say, is the fear of losing a degree of sovereignty and of being liable for supporting other countries should any new crisis break out.
经济学家说，担心在某种程度上失去国家主权，并且在新的危机爆发时要承担支持别国的责任，是这种质疑欧元的抵触情绪的一部分原因。
The euro's economic troubles have also damaged the currency bloc's image and highlighted flaws in its foundation that have still not been fully addressed.
欧元的经济困扰也对这个货币联盟的形象造成了破坏，突出显示了它的一些根本缺陷还没有得到充分重视。
In Britain, which has no intention of adopting the euro, Prime Minister David Cameron has distanced his government even more from the European Union recently. He promised a national vote on exiting the union should he win the next election.
英国没有采用欧元的意向，首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)最近甚至还进一步拉开了和欧盟的距离。他承诺如果赢得下一次大选，他会举行全民公投，决定是否退出欧盟。
Some resistance may start to melt once the eurozone starts showing tangible signs of recovery after a five-year malaise. Growth is already starting to rebound in some crisis-hit economies. Ireland recently exited an international bailout and Spain now no longer needs eurozone support for its banks.
经过了五年的惶惶不安，一旦欧元区开始出现明显的复苏迹象，对它的抵触就会有所缓和。在一些遭到过危机打击的经济体，经济增长已经开始呈现回升势头。爱尔兰近日退出了一个国际救援项目，西班牙也已经不再需要欧元区来支持它的银行。
A lesson learned from the crisis is that countries need to get their economic houses in order before joining, to avoid disasters like those in Greece and Spain, said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a research fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
华盛顿彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)研究员雅各布·芬克·柯克加德(Jacob Funk Kirkegaard)说，危机带给我们的一个教训是，在加入之前，各国应该先建立起良好的经济秩序，以避免出现希腊和西班牙那样的灾难。
Latvia achieved that, largely by adopting a wrenching austerity program that shrank its economy at one point by 20 percent from its peak. Since then, the economy has rebounded, growing 4.5 percent through the third quarter of 2013.
这一点拉脱维亚已经实现，主要靠的是施行一项痛苦的紧缩计划，一度将经济总量在峰值的基础上往下降了20%。此后经济开始反弹，2013年第三季度有4.5%的增长。
Despite negative opinion in the polls, a number of citizens see wider economic benefits of Latvia's joining the euro club. Unlike Britain, which has a powerful economy, smaller countries can see a lift from membership as businesses profit from executing transactions in a single currency. In particular, Latvian businesses expect borrowing costs to fall and investment to go up.
虽然民意调查反映出一种负面的看法，但还是有部分民众认为加入欧元俱乐部符合拉脱维亚的整体经济利益。这些小国跟本身就有强大经济实力的英国不一样，采用单一货币进行交易会给企业带来好处，从而看到成为欧元国后会有所改善。具体到拉脱维亚，企业预计借贷成本会下降，投资会上升。
“It's absolutely positive,” said Normunds Bremers, the director of Wenden, a furniture company. “It will be easier for the exporting business, and easier for those companies that focus on the market of the European Union.
“这绝对是积极的，”温顿(Wenden)家具公司董事诺蒙兹·布雷默斯(Normunds Bremers)说，“它会给出口业务提供方便，给那些面向欧盟市场的公司提供方便。”
“People are quite often against the euro, but they don't understand the reasoning that it can, in fact, benefit them.”
“人们动不动就要反对欧元，但他们不明白，它其实是可以让他们受益的。”