On a sun-soaked Southern California morning in the Hollywood Hills, the perennial pinup Pamela Anderson considered whether or not she had been afraid when she got breast implants. “I didn’t even have time to think about it,” she said in her breathy girlish voice. “It was done within a week, and that was that.”
在加利福尼亚州南部好莱坞山一个阳光明媚的早上，海报女郎常青树帕梅拉·安德森(Pamela Anderson)在思考隆胸时是否害怕过这个问题。“当时我甚至没时间想这个问题。一周之内就隆好了，就是这样”，她用女孩般娇喘的声音说。
Ms. Anderson wore black ballet flats and a Crest-white coatdress that, despite its modesty, didn’t mask her tan bombshell physique. “It was very ’80s,” she said as she fumbled with her top button. “A different time.”
安德森穿着黑色芭蕾舞平底鞋和洁白的前襟直扣式长服，虽然很朴素，但并没有掩盖她棕褐色皮肤的性感身体。“它很有80年代的感觉，”她摸着衣服最上面的扣子说，“一个不同的年代。”
It was a time when the standards of beauty were not soft Botticelli bodies, Twiggy-thin frames or the kind of androgynous looks that now rule the runways. When Ms. Anderson arrived in Los Angeles as a wide-eyed Canadian transplant of 22, the women who intrigued her were the buxom blondes in the music videos that permeated MTV, and airbrushed ’80s-era Playmates.
那时候，美的标准不是波提切利(Botticelli)油画中那种柔软的身体，不是超模崔姬(Twiggy)纤细的身材，也不是如今主导秀台的那种中性造型。安德森是加拿大移民，22岁时，天真烂漫的她来到洛杉矶。那时她最着迷的是MTV频道音乐录影带里丰满的金发美女以及修过图的80年代花花公子女郎照片。
“I would look at all these girls on the walls of Playboy, and I would go: ‘Look at their breasts, look at their bodies. How’s that even possible?’”
“那时候，我看着《花花公子》(Playboy)墙上的那些女孩，说：‘看看她们的胸，看看她们的身体。怎么可能有这种身材呢?’
Now 48, Ms. Anderson recently divorced her third husband and has recovered from a health struggle with hepatitis C. Her two boys are fully grown, 18 and 19. This year, she was the last nude cover model of Playboy, just before Hugh Hefner put his iconic mansion up for sale. The January/February double issue marked the last time the Playmates would be shown in all their naked glory — a sign of the times, the publication having fallen prey to the digital age and the onslaught of Internet pornography.
48岁的安德森前不久刚与第3任丈夫离婚，且治好了C型肝炎。她的两个儿子都已成人，分别是18岁和19岁。今年，在休·赫夫纳(Hugh Hefner)出售他的标志性大厦前夕，安德森成为《花花公子》杂志的最后一位裸体封面模特。1月/2月合刊标志着花花公子女郎最后一次以全裸形象出现——这反映了我们这个时代：出版业成为数字时代的受害者，遭到网络色情的猛攻。
Ms. Anderson said that Mr. Hefner called to ask her to appear on the final nude cover. “He says there’s nobody else from Marilyn to Pamela,” she said. Her eyes, deep pools of blue, shimmered. “How could I say no? We shot at the mansion. I got to roll down the grassy hill in the front for the last time — naked.”
安德森说，赫夫纳打来电话，请她在最后一个裸体封面上亮相。“他说，从玛丽莲(Marilyn)到帕梅拉，无人能及，”她说。她深邃的蓝眼睛微微闪动泪花。“我怎么能拒绝呢？我们在花花公子大厦拍摄。我最后一次从前面的长满青草的山上滚下，全身赤裸。”
It was bittersweet, she said, but as she pointed out, any woman with an iPhone can now cast herself as a pinup on Instagram and Snapchat. “Now girls are shooting pictures down their tops, retouching them and putting the images up to the world,” she said.
她说，那感觉既甜蜜又苦涩，但是就像她说的，而今任何一个有iPhone的女人都能选自己做Instagram和Snapchat上的海报女郎。“现在，女孩们拍半裸照，修图后，放到网上向全世界展示，”她说。
With her final frolic at the mansion, Ms. Anderson is poised to start what she calls “Chapter 2” of her life. For a decade or more, she has been taking steps toward that end.
在大厦结束最后一次嬉戏后，安德森准备开始人生的“第二章”。十多年来，她已逐步往那个方向走。
A few years ago, she chopped her long platinum hair into a chic pixie cut and tucked away her cleavage in a stylish spread in Elle. The photograph nudged the public to recognize what many close to her have known all along: that perhaps there’s more to the actress than her inflated-doll image and her tangled relationships with bad boys — having sex on tape with Tommy Lee or wedding Kid Rock in a slinky white bikini.
几年前，她把长长的白金色头发剪成时髦的短发，藏起乳沟，出现在《Elle》杂志时尚的横贯两版照片中。这张照片让公众认识到很多熟悉她的人一直知道的事情：这位女演员也许很有内涵，不只是拥有丰满的洋娃娃外形以及和坏小子们的混乱关系——与汤米·李(Tommy Lee)拍摄性爱录像，或者身穿性感的白色比基尼与摇滚小子(Kid Rock)结婚。
In 2014, the Pamela Anderson Foundation, dedicated to human, animal and environmental rights, was introduced in Cannes, France. During the introductory event, Ms. Anderson revealed that she had suffered frequent sexual assault as a child. She shared that she had been molested by a female babysitter from age 6 to 10, raped by a man in his mid-20s when she was 12 and sexually assaulted again at 14 by her boyfriend and his six friends.
2014年，致力于保护人权、动物和环境的帕梅拉·安德森基金会(Pamela Anderson Foundation)在法国戛纳成立。在推介活动中，安德森透露自己小时候经常遭到性侵。她说自己从6岁到10岁遭到一名女保姆调戏，12岁时被一名20多岁的男人强奸，14岁时再次被她男友以及他的6个朋友性侵。
Her son Brandon was with her when she made the startling announcement. “I talked to him beforehand,” she said, “and he was a little rattled by it.” It was important to be honest with her sons, she said. “Then they can understand some of the decisions I’ve made and where I come from.”
她公布这些令人震惊的情况时，她儿子布兰登(Brandon)在场。她说：“我提前告诉他了。他有点恼火。”她说，与儿子们坦诚相待很重要。“那样他们才能理解我做的一些决定和我的背景。”
Playboy, it’s often said, objectifies women, but Ms. Anderson asserts that it empowered her. Was it also a way to take charge of her own sexuality? The New York artist Marilyn Minter, who in 2007 covered Ms. Anderson with glitter and featured her in a series of dreamlike portraits, thinks so.
人们常说，《花花公子》物化女性，但是安德森坚定地认为，它赋予她力量。它也是她掌控自己性感的一种方式吗？纽约艺术家玛丽莲·明特(Marilyn Minter)是这样认为的。2007年，明特为安德森拍摄了一系列朦胧的肖像照。
“It’s really stunning how people underestimate her,” said Ms. Minter, whose work explores culture’s contradictory and often complex emotions surrounding the female body and its imperfections. “I’ve always been intrigued by Pam, because I think she owns the agency of her own sexually. She makes a living being a pinup. She’s extremely beautiful, and she’s not some Svengali. She’s the opposite of Anna Nicole Smith or Marilyn Monroe.”
“人们低估她的程度真是令人震惊，”明特说。她的作品经常探索文化对女性身体及其不完美的矛盾和复杂情绪。“我一直觉得帕梅拉很迷人，因为我觉得她掌控着自己的性感。她以做海报女郎为生。她非常美丽，她不是斯文加利式的人物。她是安娜·妮科尔·史密斯(Anna Nicole Smith)或玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)的对立面。”
Ms. Minter is not the only artist is in the Anderson circle. When asked whom she considers friends in Hollywood, Ms. Anderson demurred and said she has more friends in the art world. She has been muse to Jeff Koons, who has featured several of her body parts in his work, and she is close to the photographer David LaChapelle, the British designer Vivienne Westwood and the Southern California pop artist Ed Ruscha.
明特不是安德森朋友圈里唯一的艺术家。当我问她好莱坞的哪些人是她的朋友时，她迟疑了一下，说自己在艺术界的朋友更多。她是杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)的灵感来源，昆斯曾以她身体的几个部位作为创作主题。她跟摄影师大卫·拉沙佩勒(David LaChapelle)、英国服装设计师薇薇安·韦斯特伍德(Vivienne Westwood)和南加州波普艺术家埃德·拉斯查(Ed Ruscha)关系亲密。
“She leaves a room radioactive.” Mr. Ruscha said when asked about the star. He added that she knows her way around the art world and calls her a “diamond in the rough.”
“她能让一个房间熠熠生辉，”拉斯查谈起这位明星时说。他补充说，她知道自己在艺术界的道路，称她是“未经雕琢的钻石”。
Ms. Anderson’s attraction to the arts has rubbed off on her younger son, Dylan. Hedi Slimane recently chose him to front the current Saint Laurent fashion campaign. In a short black-and-white film, Mr. Slimane created a love letter to the California coast starring a surfboard-toting, guitar-strumming Dylan.
安德森对艺术界的吸引力传给了小儿子迪伦(Dylan)。前不久，艾迪·斯里曼(Hedi Slimane)选他担任圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)本季时装广告的主角。在黑白广告短片中，斯里曼给加州海岸献上一首情诗，由拖着冲浪板、拨弄吉他的迪伦主演。
“I think he’s going to be an artist one day,” Ms. Anderson said.
“我觉得他将来会成为一名艺术家，”安德森说。
Her inimitable dazzle recently caught the attention of James Franco, who wrote a profile of her for the Playboy issue, and the two hope to collaborate on a project. She has also been approached by the director Werner Herzog. As Ms. Anderson tells it: “He wrote me a letter and said, ‘I’ve always wanted to work with you, and I’m watching your career, and I really feel like I see something in you, and something you’re capable of that maybe you don’t even know.’”
前不久，她无与伦比的光芒引起詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)的注意——那一期《花花公子》中安德森的简介就是他撰写的——两人希望能合作一个项目。导演维尔纳·赫尔佐格(Werner Herzog)也主动跟她联系。安德森说：“他给我写了一封信，信中说，‘我一直想跟你合作，一直在关注你的事业，我真觉得我在你身上看到某种东西，某种你自己可能还没发现的能力。’”
It is the same feeling that attracted the young filmmaker and photographer Luke Gilford, who calls Ms. Anderson the sex symbol of his generation. He approached her after he saw images of her with newly cropped hair.
年轻导演兼摄影师卢克·吉尔福德(Luke Gilford)也有同样的感觉，他说安德森是他那一代的性感标志。他看到她新剪的短发照片后主动跟她联系。
“I pursued her, and I still do,” Mr. Gilford said with a laugh. The two have been co-conspirators in photography and film projects ever since. They are together so often that the tabloids have taken notice, referring to Mr. Gilford as a “mystery man.”
“是我追求她，现在还是，”吉尔福德大笑着说。从那以后，两人经常合作摄影和电影项目。他们经常在一起，引起一些小报的注意，说吉尔福德是安德森身边的“神秘男人”。
Last month, Milk Studios in Los Angeles had the premiere of Mr. Gilford’s short narrative film “Connected,” which stars an unvarnished Ms. Anderson looking powerful and chic and, in other scenes, vulnerable. At the center of the film is her character, who is grappling with the shifting standards of beauty and getting older.
上个月，洛杉矶的Milk Studios工作室首映了吉尔福德的故事短片《联系》(Connected)。该片由素颜的安德森主演，她看起来既有力量又时髦，在其他一些场景里，又看起来很脆弱。她在片中饰演的中心人物在努力对抗美的标准发生变化，而自己日益衰老的现状。
“It was so refreshing to do this role, and play somewhere where I’m at in my life,” she said.
“出演这个角色十分令人振奋，演的正是我目前的处境，”她说。
Ms. Anderson is thoughtful and open, and full of humor on this bright morning in Mr. Gilford’s sleekly designed home, which she jokes is outfitted with “sexy, phallic plants.” For a woman who made her mark on the world with her body — her curvaceous figure in a red “Baywatch” bathing suit sprinting along the beach is etched in popular culture’s subconscious — it’s not difficult to believe there is more to come from her.
在吉尔福德时髦的家里，在这个明亮的早上，安德森既体贴又开放，充满幽默感。她开玩笑说，这个家里充满“性感的阳具状植物”。对一个用自己的身体在世界上留下印记的女人——她在《海滩救护队》(Baywatch)中身穿红色泳衣在海滩上奔跑的丰满身姿铭刻在流行文化的潜意识里——不难相信她还有不少潜力可供挖掘。
“All these young indie film people seem to be looking at me from a different perspective from my peers because they are younger and they have seen me, kind of, grow up,” Ms. Anderson said. “They are doing their own art, and they look and realize: ‘Wow, maybe she would have been an artist. Maybe this was performance art all along.’”
“所有这些年轻的独立电影人似乎都从不同于我的同辈人的角度看待我，因为他们更年轻，他们看到了我的成长，”安德森说，“他们在做自己的艺术，他们看着我，意识到：‘哇唔，也许她本可以成为一名艺术家。也许这本来就是行为艺术。’”