With its proximity to mainland China and access to an international clientele, Hong Kong has become one of the fastest-growing and most diverse auction markets for power players like Christie’s and Sotheby’s. Now, the region’s niche auction houses are increasingly making their mark.
香港——香港邻近中国内地，又能接触到国际客户，所以对佳士得(Christie’s)和苏富比(Sotheby’s)等大拍卖行来说，这里成了发展最快、最多样化的市场之一。如今，这里的小型专营拍卖公司也开始崭露头角。
In the past five years, companies including Spink Phila China, Tiancheng International and Bonhams have been hosting small, narrowly themed sales to capture a larger share of the Hong Kong market for contemporary Chinese art, watches and jewelry, wine and stamps.
过去五年里，像斯宾克华邮(Spink Phila China)、天成国际(Tiancheng International)和邦汉姆(Bonhams)这样的公司都在举办主题具体的小型拍卖会，为的是在香港市场上为中国当代艺术、手表、珠宝、红酒和邮票获得更大份额。
While these events may lack the pomp of the spring and autumn auctions held by Christie’s and Sotheby’s — so large in scale that they are held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center, with previews attracting thousands — the new contenders are quickly finding their own market positions. The city even has a new midmarket player, Gresham’s, which held its first auction in August and has offerings as diverse as carpets and silver.
这些活动可能没有佳士得和苏富比举办的春季和秋季拍卖会那么盛大——规模大到要在香港会展中心举办，光是预展就能吸引成千上万人——但是这些新竞争者很快找到了自己的市场定位。这座城市甚至有了一个新的针对中端市场的公司——Gresham’s，它今年8月举办了首场拍卖会，卖品种类多样，包括地毯和银饰。
Chinese art is a highly speculated category in Hong Kong, and not a negligible one on the world stage. In a market report for the European Fine Art Fair this year in the Dutch city of Maastricht, the economist Clare McAndrew says auctions are the main driver of growth in the Chinese art market, accounting for almost 70 percent of sales. The Maastricht fair, better known as Tefaf, has even announced that it is in talks with Sotheby’s China — via its partner, the Beijing GeHua Art Company — to host a high-end art and antiques fair in Beijing in 2014.
中国艺术在香港是被大量投机的种类，在世界舞台上也不容忽视。经济学家克莱尔·麦克安德鲁(Clare McAndrew)今年在为荷兰马斯特里赫特市的欧洲美术交易会撰写的市场报告中说，拍卖是中国艺术市场增长的主要动力，约占销售额的70%。马斯特里赫特的交易会常被称为Tefaf。它甚至宣布，它正在与苏富比中国区的合作伙伴北京歌华艺术公司商量，于2014年在北京举办一场高端的艺术与古董交易会。
“Hong Kong represented 4 percent of group sales in 2008 and are now 18 percent of sales and growing,” François Curiel, president of Christie’s Asia, said. “Chinese paintings led the market in Hong Kong this year, with sales of $130.9 million, compared with $84.9 million for the same period a year ago.”
“2008年，香港的销售额占集团总销售额的4%，如今占18%，而且还在增长，”佳士得亚洲区总裁高逸龙(François Curiel)说，“今年中国绘画在香港市场位居前列，销售额为1.309亿美元，一年前同期的销售额为8490万美元。”
While Sotheby’s and Christie’s still maintain a strong hold on the market, two Chinese auction houses, China Guardian — the first auction house in mainland China, established in 1993 — and Tiancheng International, are increasing their market share.
虽然苏富比和佳士得仍强劲主导市场，中国的两大拍卖行——中国嘉德(China Guardian)和天成国际——正在增大自己的市场份额。前者是中国内地第一家拍卖行，成立于1993年。
“Once I was in London visiting Sotheby’s, and I was told they are jealous of China Guardian since some of their international markets are narrowing while our market is expanding,” said Kou Qin, director and vice president of China Guardian. “China’s economy is booming while other countries have been depressed over many years.”
“我刚到伦敦的苏富比拍卖行参观，他们就告诉我他们嫉妒中国嘉德，因为他们的一些国际市场在缩小，而我们的市场在扩大，”中国嘉德的总监、副总裁寇勤说，“中国经济正在蓬勃发展，而其他国家的经济已经低迷多年。”
But there are significant differences between the mainland and Hong Kong.
但是内地和香港有很多重大的不同之处。
“We pay particular attention to Hong Kong because it has easy contacts with international markets and very close relations with mainland China,” Mr. Kou said. “It is the first stop for us and we’ve been keeping an eye as early as 10 years ago, but the Asian financial crisis hindered our plans,” he explained. Last October, China Guardian held its inaugural auction outside mainland China, generating 455 million Hong Kong dollars, or roughly $59 million, in sales, with a strong focus on Chinese paintings, calligraphy and furniture.
“我们特别关注香港，因为它很容易接触国际市场，而且和中国内地有着非常密切的联系，”寇先生说，“它是我们的第一站，我们十年前就开始关注它了，但是亚洲金融危机阻碍了我们的计划。”去年10月，中国嘉德在中国内地之外举办了首场拍卖会，销售额达4.55亿港元，约合5900万美元，重点关注的是中国绘画、书法和家具。
When the Hong Kong-based Tiancheng International was founded in 2011, it specifically had the Chinese art market in mind. The company set up its exhibition hall, sales room and offices in the I.M. Pei-designed Bank of China building in the Central district of Hong Kong, and is headed by the former China director of Christie’s, Wang Jie.
香港的天成国际拍卖行成立于2011年，它一直特别留意中国艺术市场。该公司在位于香港中心地带的贝聿铭设计的中国银行大厦设有展厅、销售室和办公室，领头人是佳士得的前任中国区总监汪洁。
Tiancheng focuses on three areas — classical Chinese paintings, contemporary Chinese art and jewelry — but says the focus is a narrow one. “We are a young company and we want to focus on quality rather than quantity in our sales,” Ms. Wang said, pointing out that jewelry sales average about 150 lots and painting sales feature no more than 100 lots. “The sales have a more intimate atmosphere in our 300-square-meter auction room,” Ms. Wang said, referring to a space equivalent to about 3,200 square feet.
天成国际关注三个领域——中国古典绘画、中国当代艺术和珠宝，但是它说自己的关注点很窄。“我们是个年轻的公司，我们的拍卖会看重质量而非数量，”汪女士说。她指出该公司的珠宝拍卖会上的拍卖品平均约为150件，而绘画拍卖会上的拍卖品一般不超过100件。“在我们300平方米的拍卖厅里举办拍卖会有一种更亲密的氛围，”汪女士说。她指的是该公司约相当于3200平方英尺的拍卖厅。
“I don’t want to expand into other categories too quickly,” she added.
“我不想太快扩张到其他门类上，”她补充说。
Ms. Wang, who spent 14 years with Sotheby’s in China and two years with Christie’s there, recruited a team of specialists from her previous companies for their knowledge of the buying habits of Chinese customers, who account for 50 percent of Tiancheng’s client base, with the rest coming from Taiwan, Singapore, the United States and Britain.
汪女士曾在苏富比中国公司工作过14年，在佳士得中国公司工作过两年，所以她从自己工作过的这两家公司招募了一个专家团队，因为他们了解中国客户的购买习惯。中国客户占天成公司客户群的50%，其他客户来自台湾、新加坡、美国和英国。
“Because of our understanding of the market, we are pushing new trends like contemporary literati works, by artists such as Liu Dan,” she said, referring to the contemporary artist who lived in the United States for 25 years before returning to China. “We aim for a midtier pricing, with lots starting from just tens of thousands, up to a recent sale of 27 million Hong Kong dollars for ‘Willow Tree Against Spring Clouds,’ by Wu Hufan.”
“因为我们了解市场，所以我们能推动一些新潮流，比如像刘丹这样的艺术家的当代文艺作品，”她说。刘丹在返回中国之前，在美国生活了25年。“我们瞄准的是中等价位的拍卖品，从几万港币的到几千万港币的，比如最近吴湖帆的《春云烟柳》(Willow Tree Against Spring Clouds)卖出了2700万港币。”
The company holds roadshows in major cities in mainland China, including Guangzhou, Xi’an and Shanghai, as well as in Taiwan. The buyer’s premium is set at 18 percent, slightly less than the average of 20 percent commanded by Christie’s.
该公司在中国内地的几个大城市举办巡回展，包括广州、西安和上海，在台湾也举办了巡回展。该公司要求买家支付的佣金比例为18%，比佳士得20%的平均值略微低一些。
Ms. Wang hopes to cultivate buyers for contemporary Chinese art through regular exhibitions in the company’s showroom, and by working closely with galleries to secure the best examples of works by artists. “Collectors save a lot of time because our specialists select the best works for auctions,” she said, “and we focus on providing very personal customer services, which is not always possible with big auction houses.”
汪女士希望通过定期在该公司的展厅举办展览来为中国当代艺术培养买家，通过与画廊密切合作来保证展示艺术家们的最佳作品。“收藏家们可以节省很多时间，因为我们的专家们为拍卖会挑选了最好的作品，”她说，“我们专注于提供非常个性化的客户服务，这在大型拍卖公司并不是总能实现。”
Even more niche is the market positioning of Spink Phila China, which targets the small but buoyant category of stamps from China. The company was formed in 2011 when Spink & Son, a British specialist in stamps and coins, acquired Phila China, a small independent auction house based in Hong Kong.
斯宾克华邮公司的市场定位更加细化，它专做中国邮票——这是一个很小但是有上涨空间的门类。2011年，英国邮票钱币专营公司斯宾克(Spink & Son)买下了香港的一个小型独立拍卖公司——华邮公司(Phila China)，成立了斯宾克华邮公司。
“My father was a very fervent collector of Chinese stamps and coins, so when I retired from banking, I started Phila China as a small business,” said Anna Lee, who was educated in Britain and the United States and who now serves as a vice chairwoman of the combined company. “We host very small sales as there is limited demand for stamps. It’s not a very popular subject as it’s more of a personal hobby for most people — you can’t invite people over to your house and show them a stamp the way you show off a painting.”
“我父亲十分喜欢收集中国邮票和钱币，所以我从银行业退休后，开设了一个小公司——香港华邮，”安娜·李(Anna Lee)在英国和美国受过教育，现在是这家合并后的公司的副主席。“我们举办非常小型的展览，因为收藏者们对邮票的需求有限。它不是个非常流行的主题，因为对大多数人来说，它更像是一种个人爱好——你不能像请人们到你家看一幅画那样请人们来看一张邮票。”
But such niches are proving to be lucrative. In August, Spink Phila China held the world’s first auction dedicated to rare Tibetan coins owned by the collector Nicholas Rhodes, which included an extremely rare patterned coin issued in the time of the 13th Dalai Lama, who died in 1933. The coins were sold for 384,000 Hong Kong dollars, more than double the presale estimate of 150,000 dollars.
但是这样的细分主题却十分有利可图。今年8月，斯宾克华邮公司举办了全球第一场专门拍卖罕见的西藏钱币的拍卖会，这些钱币归收藏家尼古拉斯·罗得(Nicholas Rhodes)所有，包括1933年去世的第13世达赖喇嘛在位时期发行的罕见印花硬币。这些钱币卖出了38.4万港币，比会前预计的15万港币翻了一倍。
Curating unique themes is also the strength of Bonhams, the British auctioneer with a presence in Hong Kong. “It’s about making the market more diversified,” said Carson Chan, managing director of Bonhams Hong Kong. “We want to enlarge the pie.”
策划主题独特的拍卖会也是邦汉姆公司的强项，这家英国拍卖公司在香港有个分公司。“这是为了让市场更多样化，”邦汉姆香港公司的管理总监卡森·陈(Carson Chan)说，“我们想把这张饼做大。”
The company has sought to do that by broadening its offerings. “While wine auctions are popular in Hong Kong,” Mr. Chan said, “we did auctions on single malt whisky.” He added, “Watches is another important category, and we introduced themed sales for independent brands, such as Richard Mille or Maximilian Büsser & Friends. In Chinese antiques, we focused on snuff bottles when everyone is into blue and white porcelain. It’s about cultivating new interests and holding smaller, more concentrated sales.”
该公司致力于通过拓宽拍卖品的种类来实现这一点。“当红酒拍卖在香港流行的时候，”陈先生说，“我们举办了单一麦芽威士忌拍卖会。”他又说，“手表是另一个重要类别，我们曾为单个品牌举办过主题拍卖会，比如理查德·米勒(Richard Mille)和MB&F(Maximilian Büsser & Friends)。在中国古董方面，当别人都在关注青花瓷的时候，我们关注的是鼻烟壶。我们想培养客户们的新兴趣，举办更小型、更专一的拍卖会。”
That is also the approach of other players in wine sales, a growing category for Hong Kong auctions. “China is our biggest growth market at this time, and the Hong Kong Trade Development Council has basically rolled out the administrative red carpet for us,” said David Wainwright, managing director of Zachy’s Hong Kong, which auctions premium and rare wines. “When the import tax on wine came down in 2008, I felt it was the right time to set up in Hong Kong.”
那也是其他红酒拍卖公司采用的方法。红酒拍卖是香港拍卖业的一个不断增长的种类。“目前中国是我们最大的成长型市场，香港贸易发展局从行政管理的角度已经基本上为我们铺好了路，”珍稀红酒拍卖公司扎奇行(Zachy)的香港分公司管理总监大卫·温赖特(David Wainwright)说，“2008年红酒进口税降低之后，我感觉那是在香港设立分公司的良机。”
“Japan’s market has been depressed for quite some time and Singapore is generally quite conservative,” Mr. Wainwright continued, “but our operation in Hong Kong now achieves the same revenue as New York, and we didn’t dilute our U.S. business.”
“日本市场已经低迷了很长一段时间，新加坡总的来说非常保守，”温赖特又说，“但是我们目前在香港的运营取得了和在纽约同样的收益，我们没有削弱在美国的生意。”
Zachys, a New York-based family business founded in 1994, partnered with Christie’s for seven years before going solo again. It now holds four auctions a year in Hong Kong. Its most recent auction, on Sept. 19 and 20, featured a selection of wines from the extraordinary collection of Dr. Aziz Khan, including six bottles of Château Latour 1929 and two bottles of Château Mouton Rothschild 1945.
纽约的家族企业扎奇行(Zachys)成立于1994年，在与佳士得合作七年之后又重新独立经营。现在它每年在香港举办四次拍卖会。它最近于9月19日和20日举办的拍卖会拍卖的是阿齐兹·坎博士(Dr. Aziz Khan)的优秀藏品中的精选红酒，包括6瓶拉度酒庄(Château Latour )1929年出品的红酒和两瓶木桐酒庄(Château Mouton Rothschild)1945年出品的红酒。
“Many of our clients are purchasing for investment speculation from mainland China, and they want to park their cash in Hong Kong,” Mr. Wainwright said. “We strive to provide personalized services which include helping them arrange storage in Hong Kong and Europe.”
“我们的很多客户来自中国内地，他们是为了投资而购买的，他们想把资金放在香港，”温赖特说，“我们尽力提供个性化的服务，包括帮助他们在香港和欧洲安排存储。”
He continued, “Buyers in the Hong Kong market are quite involved with their collections, and they like spending their money in front of others. We put together very aggressive proposals in sourcing very rare wines, such as a case of 1982 Lafleur magnum in its original wooden crate.”
他又说，“香港市场上的买家们很喜欢亲身参与收藏，他们喜欢在别人面前花钱。我们在寻找非常罕见的红酒时会整合非常有野心的提议，比如将一箱1982年的拉弗勒(Lafleur)大酒瓶红酒放在原装的木头酒箱中。”
Mr. Curiel of Christie’s Asia welcomes the competition of these smaller players. “The more the better,” he said, “history proved that the market becomes larger every time new competitors enter the arena.”
佳士得亚洲区的高逸龙先生欢迎这些小公司的竞争。“这样的公司越多越好，”他说，“历史证明每次出现新的竞争者，市场就变得更大。”
“Guardian and many other Chinese auction houses are helping to develop the market, and to familiarize new collectors with the auction mechanism,” he continued. “As a result, more and more Chinese clients are participating in our auctions worldwide.”
“中国嘉德和其他很多中国拍卖公司在帮助开发市场，让新收藏者们熟悉拍卖机制，”他接着说道，“结果，越来越多的中国客户参与到我们的全球拍卖会中。”