BERLIN — Like millions of visitors to Germany each year, two Chinese tourists made their way this weekend to the Reichstag, seat of the lower house of Parliament, where they snapped photos of themselves outside the historic building.
柏林——与每年数以百万计前往德国的游客一样，两位中国游客在这个周末也来到德国国会大厦(Reichstag)，也就是联邦议院所在地，在这座历史悠久的建筑外面拍照。
But the two tourists were hauled off to a Berlin police station after running afoul of decades-old laws forbidding the use of some symbols and gestures — like those used by Hitler and his followers.
但是，这两名游客违反了德国数十年来禁止使用一些符号和手势（比如希特勒和他的追随者所使用的那些手势）的法律，被送至柏林的一个警局。
According to the police, the two snapped cellphone photos of each other making a Nazi salute outside the Reichstag — an illegal act witnessed by police officers assigned to guard the numerous historic sites in the area.
警方说，两人在国会大厦外互拍照片时使用了纳粹姿势致敬，这属于非法行为，奉命守卫该地区众多历史遗迹的警员目睹了这个过程。
The unidentified tourists, 36 and 49, were charged early Saturday under post-1945 laws.
这两名游客身份未作披露，年龄分别为36和49岁，周六上午，柏林根据1945年之后的法律起诉了他们。
While citizens of Germany, Austria and other European countries are schooled in the laws that forbid resurrecting Nazi symbols and gestures, it is not clear whether the increasing numbers of Chinese visitors to Europe are conscious of the measures, most commonly used to prosecute members of the far right on the Continent.
德国、奥地利和其他一些欧洲国家的公民，受过禁止使用纳粹符号和手势方面的法律教育，但是不清楚日益增多的中国赴欧游客是否知道这些法令。在欧洲大陆，这些法律在起诉极右分子的时候时常用到。
Since China put the European Union on its list of approved tourist destinations, the volume of Chinese sightseers to Europe has surged, with many taking advantage of more direct flights to shop and see the sights and to pour millions into staggering economies.
自从中国把欧盟列入了受认可的旅游目的地名单，中国前往欧洲的游客数量大幅增加，很多人搭乘直航班机前来购物观光，为停滞不前的欧洲经济创造了数以百万计的收入。
The number of Chinese tourists to Germany each year topped two million in 2014, according to the Mercator Institute for China Studies, a research foundation based in Berlin. Tourist organizations project 2.2 million Chinese visitors a year by 2020.
柏林的研究基金会墨卡托中国研究中心(Mercator Institute for China Studies)的资料显示，2014年，前往德国的中国游客数量每年超过200万。旅游组织预计，到2020年这个数字将达到220万。
In 2011, 70 million Chinese traveled abroad, and the World Tourism Organization estimated that figure would surge to 100 million by 2020.
2011年，有7000万中国人出国旅游，而世界旅游组织(World Tourism Organization) 估计，到2020年，这一数字将跃升至1个亿。
The increase in the number of Chinese tourists and the growing efforts by countries to attract them have not been met with open arms around the globe, as many complain of a clash of cultures, language and common courtesy. In 2013, a mainland Chinese tourist in Luxor, Egypt, discovered that a fellow countryman had carved his own hieroglyphics on the wall of a 3,500-year-old temple: “Ding Jinhao was here.”
中国游客人数的增加以及各国吸引他们的努力并未在全球各地引发好感，很多人对文化、语言和基本礼仪的冲突存有抱怨。2013年，一名来自中国大陆的游客在埃及卢克索一座3500年前的神庙墙壁上发现了一个同胞刻下的字迹：“丁锦昊到此一游”。
A photo of the offending scrawl drew outrage on social media, and the 15-year-old vandal was tracked down. He and his parents later issued a public apology.
令人不快的涂鸦照片在社交媒体上引起了愤怒，这个15岁的破坏者被找到。他与父母后来做出公开道歉。
For the two men who thought nothing of saluting in the style of Hitler outside the Reichstag, a judge ordered each to post 500 euros, or about $589, in bail.
对于那两个以为在国会大厦外面以希特勒方式敬礼不算事的人，法官下令每人缴纳500欧元的保释金（约合人民币4000元）。
A police spokeswoman declined on Sunday to reveal further details, and said she did not know whether the tourists were still in Berlin, or even in Germany.
周日，警方发言人拒绝透露更多细节，她表示不知道现在这两名游客是否仍在柏林或者德国。