BEIJING — Women in China are sending naked photographs of themselves holding their ID cards to peer-to-peer lenders as collateral, Chinese state media have reported, in a trend that may involve thousands of people.
北京——据中国官方媒体报道，一些中国女性向个人对个人借贷平台（peer-to-peer leander，也作P2P借贷——编注）上的放贷人提供手持身份证的裸照作为贷款抵押。这个现象可能牵涉到数千人。
The phenomenon, which the Beijing Youth Daily said was taking place on a popular online peer-to-peer lender called Jiedaibao, is provoking alarm and sympathy on social media. It has also led to calls for women to protect themselves from predators who are reportedly blackmailing them with the nude photographs, sometimes demanding sexual services when the women cannot repay at interest rates that can be as high as 30 percent a week.
据《北京青年报》报道，这种现象出现在一个名为借贷宝的热门P2P借贷平台上。此事在社交媒体上引发了担忧与同情，也有人因此呼吁女性要保护自己不受恶人的侵害。据称，倘若这些女性没法按照可能高达每周30%的利息还款，那么那些怀有恶意的放贷人便以裸照来敲诈她们，有时还会要求她们提供性服务。
A call seeking comment to Jiedaibao, a leading company in China’s flourishing peer-to-peer lending market, was not answered late on Wednesday in Beijing.
周三晚间，记者致电借贷宝北京办公室请求置评，无人接听。借贷宝是中国蓬勃发展的P2P借贷市场里的一家知名公司。
Beijing Youth Daily, said the practice was an “open secret.”
《北京青年报》表示，这种做法是一个“公开的秘密”。
“An investigation by Beijing Youth Daily shows that in some money lending groups, female university students’ ‘naked holding’ has already become an open secret,” it wrote, referring to the practice of women photographing themselves naked holding their ID card as a guarantee of repayment.
“北京青年报调查发现，在一些借款群中，女大学生‘裸持’借款已经成为公开的秘密，”文中写道。这里指的是女性拍下自己手持身份证的裸体照片，作为还款的担保。
On Weibo, China’s Twitter-like social media platform, a person called Beijing Ninth Uncle said he was gathering evidence that women from many different walks of life, including farmers and even a former employee of Jiedaibao, as well as university students, were falling afoul of the lenders’ demands.
在中国类似Twitter的社交媒体平台新浪微博上，一位名为北京九叔的用户表示，他在搜集来自各行各业的女性手上的证据，其中涵盖与出借方的要求发生冲突的人，其中既有大学生，也有农民，乃至借贷宝的一名前员工。
“With ‘naked holding’ they can get two to five times the amount of money, but when they can’t repay some have been threatened with publishing the photographs, and some lenders are even demanding the female students provide sexual services,” Beijing Youth Daily wrote.
“通过‘裸持’可以借款的金额是普通借款额度的二至五倍，但逾期未还将面临裸照被公布的威胁，甚至有借款人威胁‘裸持’借款的女生提供性服务，”《北京青年报》表示。
It described the case of a university student from Jiangsu Province in central China, whom it gave the pseudonym of Lin Xiao. Her troubles began, it said, when she borrowed 500 renminbi, about $75, from a lender in February to open an online store. At 30 percent interest on the one-week loan, she quickly needed more money to repay the debt, eventually borrowing about 120,000 renminbi from 15 people, a sum that soon ballooned into 250,000 renminbi (about $38,000) at the high interest rate.
报道中描述了一名来自江苏的大学生的案例，并使用了林晓这个化名。文中称，林晓的麻烦始于今年2月，为了开网店，她从平台上一名出借人那里借了500元，贷款期为一周，利息高达30%，因此她很快就得借更多的钱来还款。最终她从15人那里借下大约12万元贷款，在高额利息的滚动之下，这笔钱很快膨胀为25万元。
She remembered another borrower saying, “If you send a nude picture to the boss, he will lend you even more.” So the woman supplied a nude photograph of herself in exchange for a larger loan to try to escape her debt, including personal information such as contact numbers and addresses for family members. When she could not repay, the lender threatened to show the photographs to her family and friends, the newspaper reported.
她记得有一名出借人说过，“发送裸照给老板就能借到更多钱。”她便提供了自己的裸照，以换得更多贷款，逃脱债务。她还提供了自己的联系电话、家庭地址等个人信息。文中称，后来逾期无法还款时，出借人威胁要把裸照发给她的家人和朋友。
As the circle of debt widened, so did the distribution of the naked photographs, until they were in the hands of three online lenders, Beijing Youth Daily reported. At that point she told her family and, with their help, began to clear the debt. “But I still owe about 60,000 renminbi,” she said.
据《北京青年报》报道，随着借款圈子扩大，她的裸照传播的范围也随之扩大，已经落在三名网上出借人的手中。这时，林晓将事情告诉了家人，在他们的帮助下，她开始偿还欠款。“到现在还有将近6万元没还上，”她说。
The story could not be independently verified.
这个故事无法获得独立核实。
“High interest, ‘naked holding’ and so on are the private actions of users; this company cannot interfere,” Beijing Youth Daily quoted Jiedaibao as saying in response to the reports of such behavior among users. “Risks are the borrowers’ responsibility,” it said.
“高息、‘裸持’等是用户私下的个人行为，该公司无权干涉，”《北京青年报》援引借贷宝的说法写道。这是该公司对此类用户行为报道的回应。“出借款风险需要自担，”文中称。