It was June 2013 when Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist, inspired by the work of the Everyday Africa project, registered the Instagram account @everydayasia. As a Delhi-based freelance photographer, he saw a chance to carve out a space similar to the @everydayafrica feed, which showcases mobile photography that captures familiar moments, even mundane ones, to counter a media narrative too often shaped by images of extreme famine and poverty.
2013年6月，在“家常非洲”(Everyday Africa)项目的启发之下，伊恩·托马斯·詹森-隆奎斯特(Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist)在Instagram上注册了账户@everydayasia。作为一名驻德里的自由摄影师，他看到了一个机会，可以开创一个类似于@everydayafrica内容的空间，以此对抗媒体的叙述。媒体叙述总是充斥着大饥荒和极度贫困的影像，@everydayafrica展示的则都是移动设备拍摄的照片，照片捕捉的是常见乃至平淡的时刻。
The first photo Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist posted showed a man, weathered by India’s sun, holding an umbrella that didn’t quite shade him. He was standing on a busy street and seemed to be reaching out to a woman in a magenta tank top and long yellow scarf, a polka-dot bag slung over her shoulder.
詹森-隆奎斯特发布的第一张照片的主角是一名久经印度骄阳暴晒的男子，此人撑着一把没法完全遮住自己的伞，站在一条繁忙的街道旁，似乎正把手伸向一名女子，女子身着洋红色背心，围着黄色的长围巾，肩上挎着一个圆点花纹的包。
“A couple waits for a shared auto rickshaw in Imphal, Manipur, India. #everydayasia…,” the caption read. Amid the heat, the crowd and the traffic, Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist had spied a tender moment. Maybe the man was reaching for an embrace. Maybe he was attempting to pull his companion to safety. Maybe he was just gesturing. Regardless, the scene is instantly familiar: the futile umbrella, the misery of crowded places, that feigned patience while unable to hail a cab.
这幅照片的说明是：“在印度曼尼普尔邦的英帕尔，两个人正在等着共乘一辆机动三轮车……”在热浪、人群和车流之间，詹森-隆奎斯特发现了一个温柔的瞬间。这名男子伸出手去，或是是想拥抱，或许只是在打手势。不管怎样，这个场景让人立刻产生了亲切感：不管用的伞、拥挤场所的苦恼、坐不起出租车的无奈耐心。
It got him thinking about the Everyday Africa feed. ”It was just a moment where I thought, ‘Why hasn’t this been replicated?’ ” he said.
这让他思考起了家常非洲里的图片。“就在那时，我想，‘为什么没人仿效它呢？’”他说。
Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist, whose work appears predominantly in Al Jazeera and The Wall Street Journal, said Instagram provided the platform through which such a moment could find an audience.
詹森-隆奎斯特的作品经常在半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)和《华尔街日报》亮相。他说，Instagram提供了一个平台，这样的瞬间可以通过这个平台找到观众。
“Instagram is amazing because people get to choose what they want to take in, and people don’t always want the blood and the gore, the heart-wrenching moments,” he said. “Sometimes they want small instances of love and joy and finality.”For nine months, that photo remained @everydayasia’s solitary offering. Unsure of how to proceed, Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist continued freelancing and working on projects, until one day he received an email from Peter DiCampo, a co-founder of the very same Instagram feed that first inspired his project.
“Instagram很棒，因为人们可以挑选自己想看的东西，人们并不总想看鲜血和伤痕，看那些揪心的瞬间，”他说，“有时，他们想看的是关于爱、欢乐和结局的小例子。”在长达九个月的时间里，那张照片一直是@everydayasia发布的唯一帖子。詹森-隆奎斯特当时不知道该如何继续，于是继续做他的自由职业，从事不同的项目。直到有一天，他收到了彼得·迪坎波(Peter DiCampo)发来的一封电子邮件。迪坎波是一个Instagram账户的联合创始人，正是那个Instagram账户启发了詹森-隆奎斯特的项目。
“Straight off, he was like: ‘We should talk about this. What were you thinking about trying?’ ” Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist recalled.
詹森-隆奎斯特回忆道，“他直截了当，大概是这么说的：‘我们应该谈谈这件事情。你想尝试的是什么？’”
Connecting via Skype, the two established the critical framework to get the feed off the ground. They set up submission guidelines and aesthetic aims and discussed where those aims should resemble the goals of Everyday Africa, and where they should diverge.
他们二人通过Skype建立了启动项目的关键框架。他们设定了投稿指南和美学目标，并且就这些目标与“家常非洲”目标的异同安排进行了讨论。
Whereas Everyday Africa’s street-style aesthetic is informed by counteracting perceptions created by extreme media images, it was decided in the end that Everyday Asia should challenge viewers’ expectations differently.
“家常非洲”的街头审美风格来源于对极端媒体影像所创造的观念的抵制，而他们最后决定，“家常亚洲”应该以不同的方式来挑战观看者的预期。
“There are many different narratives that come out of Asia, but I’d say two of the big ones are stories of economic gain — people becoming rich, or people getting evicted because of new wealth — or this exoticism, where people say, ‘Oh, look at this really strange and colorful festival they have,’ ” Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist said.Everyday Asia now has 12 regular contributors, a group that Mr. Jansen-Lonnquist has deliberately kept small so that everyone’s work can be included. In choosing his contributors, he gravitated toward thoughtful local photographers whose feeds on Instagram showed they “weren’t looking for the most obvious shot.”
“亚洲涌现了许多不同的故事，但是我想说，其中最大的两个就是关于经济收益的故事——人们越来越富裕，或者因为新的财富而遭到排斥——或者是这种异国情调，看到的人们会说，‘啊，瞧他们这个多姿多彩的奇特节日，’”詹森-隆奎斯特说。“家常亚洲”目前拥有12名常规供稿人。詹森-隆奎斯特故意让这个团队保持小的规模，好让每个人的作品都能得到采用。挑选供稿人的时候，他倾向于选择有思想的当地摄影师，这些摄影师给Instagram提供的稿件表明，他们“关注的并不是最明显的场景”。