With affirmative action under attack and economic mobility feared to be stagnating, top colleges profess a growing commitment to recruiting poor students. But a comparison of low-income enrollment shows wide disparities among the most competitive private colleges. A student at Vassar, for example, is three times as likely to receive a need-based Pell Grant as one at Washington University in St. Louis.
随着平权法案备受攻击，经济流动性又可能停滞不前，顶尖大学越来越表现出要大力招收更多贫困生的立场。但对比低收入家庭孩子的入学情况显示，在最具竞争力的私立大学中招生情况仍存在巨大差异。例如，一名在瓦萨学院(Vassar)的学生，获得按需资助的佩尔助学金(Pell Grant)的可能性是圣路易斯华盛顿大学(Washington University in St. Louis)学生的三倍。
“It’s a question of how serious you are about it,” said Catharine Bond Hill, the president of Vassar. She said of colleges with multibillion-dollar endowments and numerous tax exemptions that recruit few poor students, “Shame on you.”
“关键在于学校对此事的重视程度，”瓦萨学院校长凯瑟琳·邦德·希尔(Catharine Bond Hill)说。提到那些拥有数十亿美元的捐赠基金和可观免税优待却几乎不收贫困生的大学，她说：“你们应该惭愧。”
At Vassar, Amherst College and Emory University, 22 percent of undergraduates in 2010-11 received federal Pell Grants, which go mostly to students whose families earn less than $30,000 a year. The same year, the most recent in the federal Department of Education database, only 7 percent of undergraduates at Washington University were Pell recipients, and 8 percent at Washington and Lee University were, according to research by The New York Times.
在瓦萨学院、阿默斯特学院(Amherst College)以及埃莫利大学(Emory University)，22%的本科生在2010-2011学年拿到了联邦佩尔助学金，该助学金主要发放给家庭年收入低于3万美元的学生。据联邦教育部(Department of Education)数据库最新数据显示，同年，华盛顿大学只有7%的学生获此资助，而据《纽约时报》调查显示，在华盛顿与李大学(Washington and Lee University)，这一比例也仅有8%。
Researchers at Georgetown University have found that at the most competitive colleges, only 14 percent of students come from the lower 50 percent of families by income. That figure has not increased over more than two decades, an indication that a generation of pledges to diversify has not amounted to much. Top colleges differ markedly in how aggressively they hunt for qualified teenagers from poorer families, how they assess applicants who need aid, and how they distribute the available aid dollars.
乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的研究人员们发现，在竞争最激烈的学校里，只有14%的学生来自于收入较低的那一半家庭。20多年来，这一比例都未能实现增长，表明要招收多样化学生的这一承诺在此期间效果非常有限。对寻找满足录取条件的贫困青少年有多大热忱、怎样评估需要资助的申请者以及怎样分配现有的助学金，在这些方面，顶尖大学之间存在显著差异。
Some institutions argue that they do not have the resources to be as generous as the top colleges, and for most colleges, with meager endowments, that is no doubt true. But among the elites, nearly all of them with large endowments, there is little correlation between a university’s wealth and the number of students who receive Pell Grants, which did not exceed $5,550 per student last year.
一些学校辩称，他们没有那么多资源，无法像顶尖大学一样慷慨。对大多数学校而言，由于缺乏捐赠基金，这种情况的确属实。但在那些精英学校里，几乎每所大学都拥有大量的捐赠基金，一个学校的富裕程度和获得佩尔助学金的学生数之间并无什么关联，何况去年该助学金的数额还未超过每人5500美元。
Washington University has an endowment similar in size, per student, to those of Emory and Vassar — between $300,000 and $400,000 as of mid-2012, wealthier than all but a few dozen colleges in the country, and Washington and Lee’s endowment is significantly larger, the Times research shows. At Harvard and Yale, with the largest endowments in the country, Pell enrollment was near the 15 percent average for the 50 most competitive colleges; at Princeton, with the largest per-capita endowment, it was lower, 12 percent, though its officials say the rate is higher for the freshman class starting this fall.
华盛顿大学所获得的捐赠数额均值与埃默里大学和瓦萨学院相似。截至2012年中，华盛顿大学获得约30万至40万美元捐赠，除了几十个大学外，比全国其他大学都多。而《纽约时报》调查显示，华盛顿与李大学的捐赠更是明显高出许多。在全国受捐赠金额最大的哈佛大学(Harvard)和耶鲁大学(Yale)，受佩尔资助的新生比例接近全国50所最具竞争力大学的平均水平，约为15%；在人均捐赠金额最高的普林斯顿大学(Princeton)只有12%，不过校方称今年秋季新生的佩尔资助比例会提高。
John Berg, the vice chancellor for admissions at Washington University, said one reason its numbers are so low is that the disadvantaged students it admits usually have offers from other top colleges with better name recognition.
华盛顿大学负责招生事务的副校长约翰·博格(John Berg)说，他们学校比例如此低的其中一个原因是，他们同意录取的弱势学生通常还收到了其他更有名的顶尖大学的录取通知。
Bob Strong, a professor of politics at Washington and Lee who oversaw admissions there for two years as interim provost, conceded that his institution historically did a poor job of recruiting low-income students, but said that it has improved and “we’re still working on it.”
在华盛顿与李大学负责管理招生工作已经两年的临时教务长、政治学教授鲍勃·斯特朗(Bob Strong)承认，学校长期以来在招收贫困学生方面做得不够好，不过他说情况已经有所改善并且“我们仍在努力改进”。
Groups that work with poorer students and administrators at colleges with high disadvantaged enrollment say that one main factor is simply making the effort to get low-income students to apply. Last year, researchers at Stanford and Harvard reported that the vast majority of high-achieving, low-income students do not apply to any selective colleges.
和贫困生以及大学弱势学生招生管理员打交道的团体认为，其中一个主要因素仅仅是努力让低收入家庭的学生去申请好大学。去年斯坦福大学(Stanford)和哈佛大学的研究显示，绝大部分成绩好的贫困生没有申请名牌大学。
“Kids who’ve never heard of most elite institutions, who don’t know anyone who’s gone to one, who assume they can’t afford one, aren’t going to apply unless you go out and recruit them,” said Anthony W. Marx, president of Amherst from 2003 to 2011.
“那些从未听过名牌大学、不认识任何名牌大学生、觉得自己上不起的学生不会申请精英学校，除非学校去招收他们，”安东尼·马克思(Anthony W. Marx)说。马克思在2003-2011年任马萨诸塞大学阿默斯特分校(Amherst)校长。
Most of the top private colleges rely on nonprofit groups like Questbridge and the Posse Foundation to help them find promising disadvantaged students. However, some recruit heavily that way while others only take one or two students per year. And some elite institutions, like Washington University, do not work with such groups.
大多数私立大学依赖像Questbridge和波塞基金会(Posse Foundation)这样的非营利性组织，帮助它们找到有前途的贫困生。然而，虽然一些学校以这种方式大量招收学生，另一些却每年只收一两个。而有些精英学校和这些组织则没有合作，如华盛顿大学。
For colleges that have the resources, another factor is how willing they are to spend the money to hunt for those applicants, and the much larger amount needed to help lower-income students go to a $60,000-a-year college. In addition, poor students face bigger challenges to remain enrolled and colleges often spend money on support services for them.
对手握资源的大学而言，另一个因素是它们有多愿意花钱去寻找那些申请者，有多愿意提供更大数额的帮助，让贫困生读一所每年花费6万美元的学校。此外，贫困生要读完大学面临的挑战更大，而大学通常还要资助他们的后勤。
Among the 50 most selective private colleges, as measured by test scores and the percentage of applicants admitted, about four-fifths have need-blind admissions, meaning that they pledge to judge applicants without considering their ability to pay. Most of the colleges that do consider financial need to varying degrees, including Colby College and Washington and Lee, have lower Pell enrollments than most of their peers.
在50所最顶尖的私立大学中（以考试成绩和申请通过率来衡量），约有五分之四的学校有不考虑经济条件的招生，即承诺在评估申请者时不考虑他们的支付能力。大多数大学在不同程度上会考虑学生的助学金需求，包括科尔比学院(Colby College)和华盛顿与李大学，它们的佩尔生比例比大多数同级别的学校低。
At a forum last fall, Mark S. Wrighton, the chancellor of Washington University, said of need-blind admission, according to the student newspaper, “It’s not our highest priority” — a comment that Mr. Berg said was taken out of context.
在去年秋天的一个论坛上，据学生报纸文章称，华盛顿大学校长马克·莱顿(Mark S. Wrighton)在讲到不考虑经济条件的招生时说，“这不是我们的当务之急”。但博格说，这一评论是断章取义。
Colleges award financial aid based either on need or merit, which can be defined as anything from earning good grades to being a virtuoso cellist. Colleges can use merit scholarships to attract students they consider desirable, and administrators stress that often, the donors who endow the scholarships dictate how the money is used.
大学基于学生的需要或优秀表现为他们提供助学金，后者可以是从学习成绩优异到自身是出色大提琴演奏者的所有范畴。大学可以用优秀学生奖学金吸引它们认为值得的学生，而且学校管理者也经常强调的一点是，奖学金捐助者规定了这些钱应该花在哪里。
Most of the elite colleges give only need-based aid. But a handful devote a significant part of their aid budgets to merit aid, and those, including Davidson College and Oberlin College, also tend to have fewer Pell recipients.
大多数名牌大学只提供基于需要的资助。但仍有一些学校将助学金中相当可观的一部分用作优秀学生奖学金，包括戴维森学院(Davidson College)和欧柏林学院(Oberlin College)，这些学校的佩尔生也通常较少。
Critics who want colleges to do more to enroll poor students say the colleges are too motivated by ranking systems, which reward schools not only for recruiting higher-performing students, but also for increasing spending on salaries and buildings, but not on financial aid or diversity. Mr. Berg insisted that at Washington University rankings are never discussed in the admissions office.
希望大学招收更多贫困学生的批评家们说，大学太过看重排名系统，这不仅让学校进一步招收表现更好的学生，更增加了教员薪水和建筑大楼方面的开支，但在助学金或招生多样性上却没有增加支出。博格先生坚称，在华盛顿大学招生办公室从未有过关于学校排名的讨论。
The question of socioeconomic diversity has gained new urgency in recent years, as economists and sociologists debate whether social mobility is declining in the United States, and educators ask what role top colleges play in helping or hindering that movement.
近年来，随着经济学家和社会学家辩论美国的社会流动性是否正在下降，教育家们追问顶尖大学在促进或妨碍这一流动上起了什么作用，社会经济多样性的问题重新变得紧迫起来。
Socioeconomic diversity also became an issue in the debate over race-conscious admissions in the past year, as the Supreme Court considered a case that could have led to the abolition of affirmative action. The court decided not to address that issue head-on, but it is likely to return before the justices.
随着联邦最高法院面临一个可能导致平权法案废除的案件，在去年关于招生种族考量的辩论里，社会经济多样性也成为一项议题。法院决定不从正面处理这一问题，但这个问题有可能会被再次摆到法官面前。
Some opponents of affirmative action argue that eliminating it would prompt colleges to give students more of a leg up based on disadvantage, rather than race, a system that they argue would be fairer. Affirmative action supporters voice doubts that its elimination would change colleges’ recruitment of poorer students, noting that a review of elite public universities shows no consistency among them, whether or not they consider race.
一些平权法案的反对者认为，废除这项法案能促使大学根据学生的弱势情况而不是种族背景提供帮助，他们认为这样的系统更公平一些。平权法案的支持者质疑废除这一法案会改变大学对贫困生的招收，指出从优秀公立大学的以往情况来看，无论是否考虑种族，它们之间没有一致性。
Among the top private schools, the disparities are even greater. Some private college administrators say they do not have the same moral obligation as public colleges to serve all strata of society, though they are loath to say so publicly.
在一流的私立大学里的差异更大。虽然不愿在公开场合承认，但一些私立大学的管理者称，和公立大学不一样得是，他们没有为社会所有阶层的人服务的道义责任。
Ms. Hill, of Vassar, disagrees.
瓦萨学院的希尔女士不同意这一点。
“We receive public support through federal grants, state grants, our tax exemptions, so I think we have the same duty,” she said. “And if young people don’t have an equal shot at getting a great education, we’re going to create a society we’re not very happy with.”
“我们获得联邦助学金、州助学金和免税政策，同样得到了公众的支持，因此我认为我们有相同的责任，”她说。“如果年轻人在接受良好教育方面不能有平等的机会，我们将会造出一个令人不满的社会。”