TOKYO — Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. delivered a carefully calibrated show of support for Japan on Tuesday, expressing deep concerns about China’s move to control airspace over islands in the East China Sea, but stopping short of a demand that Beijing reverse itself. Instead, he urged the feuding neighbors to talk to each other.
东京——副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)周二用谨慎的口吻表达了对日本的支持，他宣称，美国对中国采取行动试图控制东海有争议岛屿上方空域的做法“深表关切”。但他没有要求中国撤回相关行动，而是呼吁这两个不和的邻国展开对话。
Mr. Biden’s statement, at the start of an unexpectedly challenging trip to Asia that is next taking him to Beijing, captured the complexities for the United States as it navigates a bitter standoff between Japan and China over the territorial claims — a dispute it wishes to neither mediate nor see escalate.
就在美国小心应对中日两国围绕领土争议而起的紧张对峙之时，拜登的声明充分体现了美国面临局面的复杂性。对于这样的争议，美国既不希望参与调停，也不愿见其升级。这份声明发表在他亚洲之行的起点，此行出乎意料地充满挑战。他接下来将访问北京。
China’s air defense identification zone, Mr. Biden said after meeting with Japanese leaders, is an effort to “unilaterally change the status quo in the East China Sea” that raises “the risk of accidents and miscalculation.” He said he would bring up these concerns in detail when he met with the Chinese leadership.
拜登在结束了同日本领导人的会面后表示，中国设立防空识别区是试图“单方面改变东海的现状”，这种做法带来了“意外和误判的风险”。拜登说他将在与中国领导人会晤时更详细地向他们阐述上述担心。
But with China unlikely to rescind a move so laden with nationalistic overtones, the vice president’s focus appeared to be less on rolling back the defense zone than on neutralizing its impact by persuading the Chinese authorities to stop scrambling fighter jets or otherwise disrupting the busy air corridors between Japan and China.
但鉴于中国不大可能撤销这一充满民族主义色彩的行动，拜登的重点似乎更多是通过说服中国当局不要紧急起飞战斗机，或扰乱中日之间繁忙的空中走廊，来消除防空识别区带来的影响，而不是让中国撤销它。
China also seemed eager to defuse tensions. On the eve of Mr. Biden’s visit, the Defense Ministry issued an unusual clarification, saying the zone “will not affect the freedom of overflight, based on international laws, of other countries’ aircraft.”
中国似乎也急于缓解紧张局势。在拜登到访前夕，中国国防部发布了一份非同寻常的澄清声明，称识别区“不会影响他国航空器依国际法享有的飞越自由”。
The statement said that the Chinese military was “fully capable” of exercising control over the zone, a wide swath of the East China Sea, but it added that such deterrence would not always be needed. “Fighter planes are unnecessary,” it said, “when an entering aircraft is found to pose no threat to us, but necessary surveillance is needed.”
国防部的声明称中国军队“完全能”对东海上空长条形的识别区实施监管，但声明补充说，并非时时刻刻都需要进行这种威慑。“当判明航空器对我不构成威胁时，则不需要起飞战机，但会进行必要监视，”声明说。
In Tokyo, Mr. Biden said that China and Japan needed “crisis management mechanisms and effective channels of communication” to avoid the risk of miscalculation. The countries have discussed a hotline, but the talks have gone nowhere.
在东京，拜登说中国和日本需要“危机管理机制以及有效的沟通渠道”，以规避出现误判的风险。中日两国曾就设立一条热线进行过讨论，但最终不了了之。
“The only conflict that is worse than one that is intended is one that is unintended,” the vice president said as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, looking grave, stood next to him.
拜登说，“唯一比有意制造冲突更糟糕的，是无意制造的冲突。”他讲这番话时，表情严峻的日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)就站在他旁边。
The Japanese government has called for China to roll back the zone. But Mr. Abe, perhaps seeking to project unity with Mr. Biden, did not repeat that demand Tuesday. He said the United States and Japan had reaffirmed that they would not alter any joint military operations in the area. “We will not condone any action that will threaten the safety of civilian aircraft,” he added.
日本政府呼吁中国撤销防空识别区。但周二，安倍晋三并未重申这一要求，这或许是为了显示他与拜登的一致。安倍晋三说，美国和日本都重申不会改变该地区的任何联合军事行动。“我们不能宽恕任何将给民用飞机带来危险的行为，”他补充说。
That appeared to be an attempt to smooth over a disconnect between the United States and Japan over the Federal Aviation Administration’s guidance to American carriersthat they identify themselves before entering the restricted zone. Officials in Tokyo have instructed Japanese carriers to ignore the Chinese demand.
这看来是试图平息美国和日本出现的分歧，分歧出现在联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）建议美国航空公司在进入这一识别区前向中国通报身份之后。东京的官员已下令本国航空公司不理睬中国的要求。
Obama administration officials insisted that there was no discord between the United States and Japan on how to respond to the Chinese zone. The aviation administration, they said, routinely gives guidance whenever a country issues a warning to ships and planes.
奥巴马政府的官员坚称，美国和日本在如何应对中国设立防空识别区上不存在分歧。他们说，只要有国家对轮船或飞机发出警告，联邦航空管理局都会例行给出建议。
“Nothing that the F.A.A. has done constitutes any acceptance or recognition of this,” said a senior administration official traveling with Mr. Biden. “The U.S. has clearly set forth that our military aircraft will continue to operate normally.”
一位陪同拜登出访的政府高级官员说，“FAA的任何做法都不意味着接受或承认这个识别区。美国已清楚地表明，我们的军用飞机将继续它们的正常飞行。”
Administration officials said that Mr. Biden would urge China not to create any other such zones and to show restraint in policing this one. By treating the zone as irrelevant, American officials hope to reduce the Chinese government’s incentive to declare zones in the South China Sea or the Yellow Sea, where it has other territorial disputes.
奥巴马政府官员说，拜登将呼吁中国不要再设立任何其他类似空域，并在监控这个识别区上表现出克制。但通过淡化这一识别区的重要性，美国官员希望减少中国政府在南海或黄海宣布设立类似区域的积极性。在南海和黄海，中国均与他国存在领土争端。
The Japanese government perceives the zone as an attempt by the Chinese to assert control over disputed islands, known in Japan as the Senkaku and in China as the Diaoyu. Japan has a long-established air defense identification zone that covers much of the East China Sea, including those islands.
日本政府视该识别区为中国企图夺取对一群有争议岛屿的控制权。这些有争议岛屿在日本被称作尖阁诸岛，在中国被称为钓鱼岛。日本很早就设立了自己的防空识别区，覆盖了东海包括这些岛屿在内的很大一部分区域。
Pointedly taking note of that, the Chinese Defense Ministry statement said that Japan’s actions, including “playing up the so-called China threat” and threatening to shoot down Chinese drones, had forced China to make “necessary reactions.”
中国国防部显然注意到了这一点，在声明中表示，日方包括“肆意渲染中国威胁”和威胁击落中方无人机在内的行为迫使中方不得不做出“必要反应”。
The dispute has raised tensions in the region to their highest level in nearly two decades. Some analysts said they believed that the Chinese government was caught off guard by the ferocity of the opposition from the United States, the European Union and Australia, on top of a predictably angry response by Japan and South Korea.
此次争端让该地区的紧张局势升级到近20年来的最高水平。一些分析人士认为，中国政府预料到日本和韩国会做出愤怒的反应，但美国、欧盟和澳大利亚反对的激烈程度让其措手不及。
But in Beijing, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, rejected suggestions that China should rescind the defense zone, saying it was fully in compliance with international law. He suggested that China was open to the idea of establishing crisis management mechanisms.
然而在北京，中国外交部发言人洪磊否认了中国应该撤销该防空识别区的提法，称它完全符合国际法。洪磊暗示，中国对建立危机管理机制的主意持开放态度。
Mr. Hong contended, however, that Japan was not. “The Japanese side unilaterally, on one hand, declares they want dialogue, but then they close the door to dialogue,” he said.
但洪磊声称日本不愿意。“日方一方面口口声声称始终敞开对话大门，但真要对话，它又关起门来，”洪磊说。
For Mr. Biden, the dispute has been a distraction on a trip he had hoped would promote a range of other issues, like a trans-Pacific trade agreement and efforts to curb the nuclear threat in North Korea. Still, Mr. Biden found time to tour a Japanese Internet company founded and run by a female entrepreneur, Tomoko Namba. Joined by the new United States ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, and Catherine Russell, the State Department’s ambassador for global women’s issues, he chatted with five female employees at the company’s Tokyo offices.
对拜登来说，这一争端搅乱了他此次出访的任务，他本来希望此行能促进一系列其他问题的解决，比如泛太平洋贸易协议和遏制朝鲜核威胁的行动。但是，拜登仍找时间参观了由女企业家南场智子(Tomoko Namba)创立和经营的日本互联网公司。在美国新任驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)和国务院负责全球女性事务的大使凯瑟琳·罗素(Catherine Russell)的陪同下，他在该公司位于东京的办公室里与五名女员工进行了交谈。
“Do your husbands like you working full time?” he asked the women, who nodded energetically. He also inquired whether the company, known as DeNA, offered child care service, and whether female employees could work from home.
拜登问她们，“你们全职工作，你们的丈夫高兴吗？”她们使劲地点头。他还问了这家名为DeNA的公司是否提供托儿服务，以及女员工是否能在家工作。