SEOUL, South Korea — Greeting Chinese leaders at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Wednesday, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. reminded them that he had first been there in 1979, as a young senator, to meet Deng Xiaoping, the reformist Chinese leader. He told President Xi Jinping, 11 years his junior, that he had met enough world leaders to take their measure.
韩国首尔——周三，美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在北京的人民大会堂与中国领导人会面，他提醒他们，他早在1979年还是一名年轻参议员时就首次访华，会晤了实施改革的领导人邓小平。他告诉比他小11岁的国家主席习近平，他见了足够多的世界领导人，有资格对他们做出评判。
The message was anything but subtle: Joe Biden was not born yesterday, and he is no stranger to Asia. Given the tension, finger-pointing and mutual suspicions that he confronted on every stop of his weeklong tour of the region, Mr. Biden’s political instincts, honed over four decades of experience, came in particularly handy this week.
这传达出的信息非常明确：乔·拜登绝非是初出茅庐，对亚洲也很了解。在他为期一周的亚洲之行中，紧张的局势、指责声和相互猜疑无处不在，因而拜登经过40年实践磨砺的政治本能在本周显得格外有用。
At times, traveling from Japan to China and finally to South Korea on Friday, he seemed less a diplomat or grand strategist than a kindly but stern uncle, called in to smooth ruffled feathers and instruct Asia’s leaders to stop quarreling with one another.
他先抵达日本，随后是中国，最后又在周五到访韩国，这段时间里，他时而显得不像一名外交官或大战略家，而更像是一位和蔼却严厉的叔叔，被叫来平息愤怒的情绪，并告诉亚洲的领导人们，不要再相互争吵。
Seeking to cool an escalating dispute between China and Japan about an air defense zone created by Beijing over contested waters, Mr. Biden was practical. He backed Japan, America’s ally, with strong words while warning China not to scramble fighter jets in the airspace, even as he tacitly conceded that Beijing would never roll back the measure.
中国政府在中日争议海域设立了一个防空区，由此引起的争执不断升级，而拜登在努力缓解紧张局势的时候则显示了务实精神。他以强烈的言辞支持了美国的盟友日本，警告中国不要向这一空域出动战斗机，尽管他同时也含蓄地承认，北京绝不会撤消这一举措。
Seeking to quell a resurgence of historic animosities, Mr. Biden played emissary from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan to the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, who is angry about statements by Mr. Abe that were interpreted here as an attempt to diminish Japan’s responsibility for World War II atrocities.
为了消除复燃的历史仇恨，拜登在会见韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)时，担当了日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的传话人。韩国人认为，安倍晋三前一段时间的言论是在努力推脱日本对二战暴行的责任，朴槿惠因此感到愤怒。
“The good thing about Biden is that his direct style leaves no doubts in Asia about U.S. concerns and wants in a way that a more diplomatic Obama might not,” said Victor Cha, an adviser on North Korea to President George W. Bush who teaches at Georgetown University.
“拜登的好处是，他直截了当的风格让亚洲对美国的顾虑和希望一清二楚，而这可能却是更为委婉的奥巴马所无法做到的，”车维德(Victor Cha)说道。他曾担任乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的朝鲜问题顾问，现在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)任教。
Mr. Biden’s personal diplomacy is unlikely to prevent future flare-ups. South Korea is considering plans to expand its own air defense zone, in response to the one declared by Beijing in the East China Sea. It would overlap with those of China and Japan, suggesting that the sea will continue to be an arena for disputes between these uneasy neighbors.
拜登的个人外交不太可能会防止未来纷争的再度爆发。针对北京在东海设立的防空识别区，韩国正考虑制定计划，来扩大自己的防空区。这将与中国和日本的防空区有所重合，也就意味着这片海域将继续成为这些不安定邻居的争议焦点。
When Mr. Biden appealed to Ms. Park to repair the rift with Japan, she replied that the Japanese needed to regain the trust of Koreans by taking “sincere measures” to alter the perception that Japan wants to glorify its wartime history, not repent for it.
当拜登向朴槿惠呼吁修复与日本的分歧时，她表示，安倍晋三让韩国人感到，日本想要美化其战争历史，而不是表示忏悔，因此日本政府需要采取“真诚举措”改变这一印象，来重新得到韩国人的信任。
If nothing else, Mr. Biden’s visibility — on what has easily been his most newsworthy vice-presidential trip — demonstrates that the United States remains a pivotal player in the Pacific Basin, its security umbrella giving Japan and South Korea comfort in the face of a rising China that is flexing its military muscles against its neighbors.
针对拜登的高关注度已经让他的这次东亚之旅成了这位副总统迄今为止最具新闻价值的一次出访，这至少说明，美国在太平洋地区依然扮演着关键角色。面对着一个正在向其邻国摩拳擦掌的崛起中的中国，美国的安全保护伞为日本和韩国带去安慰。
The vice president’s personal diplomacy may have also breathed some life into the Obama administration’s strategic pivot to Asia, which has languished in recent months as Secretary of State John Kerry has been preoccupied by the Middle East and President Obama canceled a trip to the region because of the government shutdown.
副总统的个人外交可能也为奥巴马政府战略性的转向亚洲计划注入了一些活力。在最近几个月，随着国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)忙于处理中东事务，奥巴马总统又由于政府停摆而取消了他的亚洲之行，该战略一度陷入沉寂。
Mr. Biden did his best work behind closed doors. His only major speech, delivered here on Friday, mixed homespun Biden aphorisms with familiar diplomatic language, andbroke little new ground. He did make a brief allusion to the feud between Japan and South Korea, which is complicating America’s outreach.
拜登在幕后所做的一些工作最为出色。他唯一的一次重要演讲是周五在首尔发表的，其中融合了朴素的拜登式格言和耳熟能详的外交辞令，但没有多少突破。他的确短暂地影射了日韩之间的宿怨，这种宿怨致使美国团结该地区的努力受到影响。
Without providing many details, Mr. Biden told a university audience that the United States was redoubling, not retreating from, its economic, political and military presence. “President Obama is absolutely committed to rebalance,” he told the polite crowd of 1,500. “No one should underestimate or question our staying power.”
拜登没有提到很多细节，但他在一所大学表示，美国在加强、而不是削减它的经济、政治及军事存在。“奥巴马总统想要实施再平衡战略的决心是无比坚定的，”他告诉1500名彬彬有礼的听众。“大家不应该低估或质疑我们留在这个地区的决心。”
He ticked off the three elements of the pivot: shoring up Cold War-era alliances; reviving America’s role in Southeast Asia; and building a relationship with China that can weather disputes. It is clear that of the three, China is the one Mr. Biden is drawn to most. At a meeting with Vice President Li Yuanchao, he referred to the Beijing-Washington axis as the “central, sort of, organizing principle” of international relations.
拜登列举了转向亚洲策略的三部分内容：加固冷战时期的联盟关系；恢复美国在东南亚地区的作用；与中国建立一种能够历经争议考验的关系。很明显，在这三项内容中，拜登最关注的是与中国的关系。在与中国国家副主席李源潮会晤时，拜登称中美轴心是国际关系中“核心的组织原则”。
Some of that may stem from Mr. Biden’s personal ties to Mr. Xi, a former vice president, which have deepened over the course of lengthy reciprocal visits to China and the United States into something quite unusual for world leaders, particularly two who are now of unequal rank.
这部分可能是源自拜登与曾担任国家副主席的习近平之间的个人关系，随着长期以来的中美互访，两人的关系不断加深，这在世界领导人中实属罕见，尤其是两位领导人如今的级别已不相同。
Mr. Xi spent five hours with Mr. Biden, an extraordinary time commitment by the supreme leader of a country that is a stickler for protocol. Aides to Mr. Biden described a politician-to-politician exchange in which he challenged Mr. Xi to move faster with economic overhauls, warned him on the treatment of foreign journalists and told him bluntly that the United States intended to behave as if China’s air defense zone did not exist.
习近平与拜登的会谈持续了五个小时，对于这样一个拘泥礼节的国家的最高领导人来说，投入这样多的时间可谓不同寻常。拜登的助手表示，在这场政治家之间的交流中，拜登要求习近平加快经济改革的步伐，提醒他外国记者所受待遇可能带来的后果，并坦言，美国打算无视中国的防空识别区。
“The Obama administration decided almost two years ago to try to establish a strong relationship between the then-vice presidents,” said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a China adviser in the Clinton administration who is now at the Brookings Institution. “This effort has proven to be both very successful and very important.”
“差不多在两年前，奥巴马政府就决定要努力让副总统拜登和时任国家副主席的习近平建立一种牢固的关系，”曾任克林顿政府中国问题顾问、现供职于布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的李侃如(Kenneth G. Lieberthal)说。“结果证明，此项努力非常成功，也非常重要。”
Mr. Biden, American officials said, made progress in persuading China to consider installing a hotline with Japan to prevent miscommunication in the East China Sea that could lead to hostilities. They also detected a greater willingness on Mr. Xi’s part to embrace a strategy of pressure and dialogue to curb North Korea’s nuclear ambitions.
美国官员表示，拜登在竭力说服中国考虑与日本开设热线，以防止在东海问题上出现沟通不畅的情况，导致冲突的爆发，并且已经取得了一些进展。他们还发现，习近平正表现出更大意愿，支持通过施压及对话的策略，遏制朝鲜的核野心。
There were clear limits to Mr. Biden’s approach. Mr. Xi robustly defended China’s air defense zone and brushed aside the vice president’s appeal on behalf of correspondents who may soon be forced to leave China because of unwelcome news coverage.
但是很明显，拜登的行动有其局限性。习近平坚定地捍卫了中国的防空区计划，并对这位副总统代表驻华记者提出的请求表示漠视，这些记者因为发表了让政府不悦的报道，可能很快就会被迫离开中国。
But after a week of hectic diplomacy, with plenty of opportunities to get on the wrong foot, Mr. Biden accomplished a valuable goal. “The objective,” Mr. Lieberthal said, “has been to make China a central focus of the pivot without making China into the bull’s-eye.”
然而，在经过了一周忙碌的外交努力之后——期间有许多次险些出错——拜登还是实现了一个重要目标。“那就是使中国成为转向策略的主要焦点，却不要使它成为靶心，”李侃如说。