TOKYO — With Japan locked in a tense standoff with China over disputed airspace, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. arrived here late Monday for a weeklong visit to Asia intended to reassure a close ally and demand answers from a potential adversary.
东京——日本与中国因争议空域陷入紧张僵局之际，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)于周一晚些时候抵达这里，展开为期一周的亚洲访问。此行的目的是要让一个亲密盟友放心，并从一个潜在对手那里得到一些解释。
But first, Mr. Biden may need to repair a perceived disconnect between the United States and Japan in their responses to China’s declaration of a restricted flight zone over a swath of the East China Sea that includes disputed islands claimed by both Japan and China.
但是，美国和日本对中国宣布在东海上空划设防空识别区的反应出现了显见的不一致，拜登要做的第一件事情或许就是修复这种不一致。这个防空识别区覆盖了东海大片地区，其中包括日本和中国都声称拥有主权的一些争议岛屿。
Analysts and former diplomats said that reassuring Japan of America’s commitment to the region was particularly important given creeping worries in Tokyo that the United States might no longer have the financial ability, or even the will, to maintain its dominant military position in the Asia-Pacific.
一些分析人士和前外交官说，使日本相信美国对该地区的承诺特别重要，因为日本逐渐开始担心，美国或许不再有财力乃至意愿来维持它在亚太地区的军事主导地位。
Although the Obama administration registered its displeasure with the so-called air defense identification zone established by China by sending two unarmed B-52 bombers on a mission through it, federal regulators, as a safety precaution, advised American civilian flights to identify themselves before entering the airspace — in compliance with the Chinese regulations.
虽然奥巴马政府已经派两架未携带武器的美国B-52轰炸机飞越了中国所谓的防空识别区，以此表示了不满，但从安全方面考虑，联邦监管者还是建议美国民用飞机遵守中方的规定，在进入该空域前通知中方。
That was viewed by some in Japan as a mixed message, since the Japanese government had told its airlines to ignore the Chinese demand. Japanese newspapers began worrying about “allies no longer walking in lockstep,” and government officials sought clarification from Washington.
日本的一些人认为美国的举动含义不明，因为日本政府已要求日本航空公司不理会中国的要求。日本报纸开始担心“盟友步伐不再一致”的问题，政府官员也希望华盛顿能对此事进行说明。
The State Department quickly said that the advice did not mean that the United States was recognizing the air defense zone. And American officials have told the Japanese that the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision was a safety recommendation — far short of an order, though major American airlines said they were heeding it.
美国国务院迅速表示，该建议并不表示美国认可中国的防空识别区。美国官员告诉日本，联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）的决定只是一条安全建议——绝非命令，虽然美国的大型航空公司纷纷表示会听从这条建议。
Still, a lingering ambiguity has led Japanese officials to give contradictory assessments of American intentions. On Sunday, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told reporters that his government had confirmed through “a diplomatic route” that the United States had not asked airlines to file flight plans with the Chinese.
然而，挥之不去的含糊状态促使日本官员对美国的意图做出了完全相反的评判。周日，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)告诉记者，他的政府已通过“一条外交途径”确定，美国并没有要求航空公司向中国提交飞行计划。
“While having a deep discussion of the issues, we hope to respond with close coordination between Japan and the United States,” Mr. Abe said of his scheduled talks on Tuesday with Mr. Biden.
提到他与拜登计划于周二举行的谈话时，安倍晋三说，“就这个问题进行深层讨论的同时，我们希望通过美日之间的密切合作来做出回应。”
Administration officials said earlier that Mr. Biden would leave no doubt in Japan or China that the United States views the Chinese move as a provocation and plans to disregard it, at least as far as military operations go.
美国政府官员早些时候表示，拜登将向日本和中国明确表明，美国认为中国的举动是挑衅行为，不打算予以理会，至少是就军方的行动而言。
“We have real concerns with this move by China because it raises real questions about their intentions,” said a senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid pre-empting Mr. Biden’s message. “It constitutes a unilateral change to the status quo in the region, a region that is already fraught.”
“我们对中国的这一举动非常担心，因为它真的让人对中国的意图产生了疑问，”美国政府的一名高级官员表示。这名官员要求匿名，免得提前透露拜登的信息。“此举单方面改变了该地区的现状，该地区本来就已经很让人担忧了。”
Still, the official said, Mr. Biden would not deliver a formal diplomatic protest to Beijing, where he is to meet with President Xi Jinping on Wednesday. His aides are determined not to allow the matter to dominate his trip, during which the vice president also hopes to build support for a trans-Pacific trade agreement and coordinate a response to the nuclear threat from North Korea.
但是，这名官员说，拜登不会向北京提出正式的外交抗议。他将于周三和中国国家主席习近平会面。他的助手决定不让这件事成为他此行的主要议题。访问期间，拜登副总统还希望寻求对跨太平洋贸易协定的支持，协调各方对朝鲜核威胁的回应。
Mr. Biden cultivated friendly ties with Mr. Xi when he was China’s vice president. But their encounter this time may be more difficult.
习近平担任国家副主席时，拜登与习近平建立了友好关系。然而，此次会面可能会比较艰难。
Analysts and former diplomats said the Chinese government was already using the recommendation to American airlines to pressure Japan. On Monday, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, commended the American move as showing “a constructive attitude,” while scolding Japanese criticism of the air zone as “irresponsible.”
一些分析人士及前外交官表示，中国政府已经利用美国对美国航空公司的建议向日本施压。周一，中国外交部发言人洪磊称赞美国的举动体现了“建设性态度”，并指责日本对防空区的批评是“不负责任的”。
“The Chinese are already trying to portray this as daylight between the U.S. and Japanese positions, when there actually isn’t any,” said Kevin Maher, a former United States diplomat in Japan who is now a senior adviser at NMV Consulting in New York.
现为纽约NMV咨询公司高级顾问的前美国驻日外交官凯文·马厄(Kevin Maher)表示， “中国已经在竭力表明，美国与日本对这个问题的立场存在差异，尽管这样的差异实际上并不存在。”
“The optics may look bad, but all the U.S. is saying is that we don’t want commercial airliners to take an arrow for the team,” Mr. Maher added. “We need to make clear that we will keep sending military aircraft into the declared zone.”
“这看起来可能并不好，但美国的意思不过是不希望商务客机替人受过而已，”马厄补充说。“我们需要表明，我们将继续派军用飞机前往中国宣布的防空区。”
The tension with China comes at a delicate moment, with the United States pushing Japan to wrap up negotiations on the regional trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Inspired by comments Mr. Abe made about the importance of women to the Japanese economy — and by the new American ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy — Mr. Biden has left time for a visit to a Japanese company owned and run by a female entrepreneur. He will be joined by Ms. Kennedy, who took up her post in Tokyo just three weeks ago.
与中国的紧张关系出现在一个敏感的时刻，美国正在推动日本完成有关区域贸易协议——《泛太平洋伙伴关系协定》(Trans-Pacific Partnership)——的谈判。鉴于安倍晋三就女性对日本经济的重要性发表了评论，而美国新任驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)也是女性，拜登已经预留时间来参观一家由女企业家拥有并运营的日本公司。三周前就职的肯尼迪将与拜登一同参观该公司。
For Mr. Biden, though, the region’s tensions will be inescapable. In addition to the conflict over the disputed islands — known in Japan as the Senkaku, and in China as the Diaoyu — Japanese and South Korean leaders are feuding amid a resurgence of animosities that date to Japanese colonialism and World War II.
但对于拜登来说，该地区的紧张局势将是不可避免的。除了争议岛屿引发的冲突以外，日本和韩国的领导人也陷入了长期不和的状态，起因则是源于日本殖民统治及二战时期的仇恨重新高涨。日本称争议岛屿为尖阁诸岛，中国称之为钓鱼岛。
Before taking office, Mr. Abe, a conservative, has struck a nerve with statements about Japan’s culpability — or lack of it — in the war. Since then, however, he has not visited the Yasukuni Shrine, a memorial to the Japanese war dead that has become a fraught symbol because it also honors people who are war criminals. Mr. Biden will likely encourage him to keep staying away.
就任首相之前，隶属保守派阵营的安倍晋三有关日本战争罪责——或没有罪责——的声明惹怒了相关国家。但从那时起，安倍晋三还没有参拜过靖国神社(Yasujuni Shrine)，这个供奉日本战争死难者的纪念馆已经成为一个令人担忧的象征，因为祭祀对象还包括战犯。拜登多半会鼓励他继续远离靖国神社。
With the United States trying to reinvigorate President Obama’s shift to Asia after he canceled a trip to the region because of the government shutdown, analysts will watch Mr. Biden’s words as a clue to America’s resolve to maintain its military presence here.
自从奥巴马总统因政府停摆而取消亚洲之行以后，美国一直在努力恢复奥巴马的转向亚洲政策。鉴于此，分析人士将密切留意拜登的言论，视之为了解美国保持亚洲军事存在的决心的线索。
“The most important thing is for Vice President Biden to show that the U.S. will work on China to end its unilateral actions,” said Ichiro Fujisaki, who served as Japanese ambassador to the United States until last year.
去年结束任期的日本驻美国大使藤崎一郎(Ichiro Fujisaki)表示，“对于拜登副总统来说，最重要的事情是表明美国将设法说服中国结束单边行动。”