Joe Biden’s personal compartment on the modified Boeing 757 that serves as Air Force Two had the feel of a motel manager’s office equipped with state-of-the-art communications gear. The room held a little black couch with a pullout bed he had slept on more times than he could count over the last eight years, during which he logged more than a million miles aloft. We were en route back to Wilmington, Del., from Cartagena, Colombia, in early December, and Biden was sitting in a black leather seat with a binder in his lap.
在这架以空军二号(Air Force Two)为名服役的波音757上，乔·拜登(Joe Biden)的私人舱室看上去像一间配有尖端通讯设备的汽车旅馆经理办公室。里面有一张小小的黑色沙发，拉开来就是一张床。过去八年间，拜登总计完成了超过100万英里的空中旅程，至于在这张床上睡过多少次，连他自己都数不清了。这是2016年12月初，我们正从哥伦比亚的卡塔赫纳飞回特拉华州的威尔明，拜登坐在一张黑色皮座椅上，膝头放着一本活页夹。
It contained the speech he had given at the Democratic National Convention in July. He told me he had been rereading it. He began reciting aloud: “If you live in neighborhoods like the one Jill and I grew up in, if you worry about your job and getting decent pay. ...” His voice accelerated. “If you worry about your children’s education, if you’re taking care of an elderly parent, there’s only one person in this race who. ...” He looked up at me and sighed. “I wish to hell I’d just kept saying the exact same thing.”
活页夹中有他此前出席7月份的民主党全国代表大会(Democratic National Convention)时的演讲稿。他告诉我，他一直在重读这份演讲稿。他开始大声说道：“如果你生活的社区与吉尔(Jill)和我长大成人的地方类似，如果你担心自己的就业以及是否能得到不错的报酬……”他的声音越来越快。“如果你担心子女的教育问题，如果你正在照顾年迈的父母，那么在这场竞选中只有一名候选人……”他看着我，叹了口气。“我多么希望自己一直说着同样的话。”
Biden was afflicted with regret. He was sorry that, on the campaign trail, he had spoken so often about Donald Trump’s unfitness for office and not enough about what Hillary Clinton would do for the middle class. He was sorry he didn’t push harder inside the White House for a middle-class tax cut. And he was still torn over his decision not to run for president, a race that he said would have been “brutal” but that he also believed he could have won.
拜登被懊恼折磨着。让他感到懊恼的是，总统选举期间，他总是在说唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)如何不适合当总统，而没有多说说希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)会为中产阶级做些什么。让他感到懊恼的是，他没有为了推行中产阶级减税政策而在白宫内部进一步施压。此外，对于自己做出的不竞选总统这一决定，他仍然耿耿于怀，他说这场竞选会很“惨烈”，但他相信自己能赢。
I spoke with Biden intermittently in the months before and after Election Day, and I had no doubt as to why he didn’t jump in. He was still corny, gabby, lovable Uncle Joe, the guy who once said: “Stand up, Chuck! Let ’em see you!” to a man in a wheelchair. But nearly every speech and interview now included some moving mention of his son Beau, who died of brain cancer in 2015, and how much Biden was doing, and intended to continue to do for the rest of his life, to speed the search for cancer cures.
我在大选日前后的数月间和拜登有过断断续续的交流，完全明白他为什么不参选。他依然是那个老派、唠叨、可爱的乔叔，那个曾对坐在轮椅里的人说“站起来，查克(Chuck)！让大家看看你”的人。但现如今，几乎每次发表演讲或者接受采访，他都会令人颇受触动地提到在2015年死于脑癌的儿子博(Beau)，提到为了推动癌症治疗研究他正在做哪些工作，以及打算在余生继续做些什么。
I saw Biden cry in Manchester, N.H., in October when holding an infant that he was told was named after Beau. I saw him near tears in West Mifflin, Pa., the weekend before the election, when he was joined onstage by the former Pittsburgh Steelers Franco Harris and Mel Blount — which reminded him of the footballs the team owner sent to young Beau and his brother, Hunter, in the hospital after they were injured in the 1972 car accident that killed Biden’s first wife and baby girl.
去年10月，我在新罕布什尔州曼彻斯特看到拜登哭了，当时他抱着一名孤儿，别人告诉他那个孩子也叫博。大选日之前的那个周末，我在宾夕法尼亚州西米夫林看到拜登差一点掉下眼泪，当时，他和匹兹堡钢人队(Pittsburgh Steelers)的前球员弗兰科·哈里斯(Franco Harris)和梅尔·布朗特(Mel Blount)一起登台，让他想起1972年，年轻的博和弟弟亨特(Hunter)出车祸受伤住院，钢人队的老板曾经送给他们一些橄榄球，那场车祸让拜登失去了第一任妻子和年纪尚小的女儿。
On his deathbed, Beau advised his father to run, but many friends — including President Obama — didn’t think he was up to it emotionally, and the vice president finally agreed. “For all that’s important to me in almost a sacred sense,” he told me mournfully, the decision was unavoidable. “The family was broken, and I was more broken than I thought I was.” How broken? “I don’t know what I’d do if I was in a debate and someone said, ‘You’re doing this because of your son,’ ” he told me one late November day in his West Wing office. “I might have walked over and kicked his ass.”
临终之际，博建议父亲参选，但拜登的很多朋友都认为他在感情上尚未做好准备，也包括奥巴马总统在内，这位副总统最终表示同意。“尽管此事我来说有一种近乎神圣的意义，”他悲伤地告诉我，但这一决定是不可避免的。“我的家庭支离破碎，而我本人比自己以为的还要心碎。”多么心碎？“如果参加辩论时听到某人说‘你是因为你儿子才做这件事的’，我不知道自己会作何反应，”去年11月末的一天，他在白宫西配楼的办公室里这样告诉我。“我或许会走过去踢他屁股。”
And yet minutes later, he was standing at his desk, fidgeting and replaying what might have been in 2016. The South Carolina primary would have given him a strong start, he said, citing his internal polls there. “Hard to believe, but I was more popular with blacks than Barack was.”
然而几分钟后，他便站在办公桌边，烦躁不安地推演2016年或许本可以是什么情形。他援引南卡罗来纳州的内部民调结果称，该州的初选会让他有一个好的开头。“难以置信，但我在黑人群体中比贝拉克还受欢迎。”
Biden clearly loathes the new president; he said during the campaign that if he and Trump were in high school, he’d “take him behind the gym” for the way he bragged about groping women. Trump reminded him of the bullies who teased him as a child on account of his stutter, calling him “B-B-Biden.” But the politician who has long believed all politics is personal wants to keep it impersonal with Trump. “The president and I have concluded that there’s no value in making that ad hominem argument,” he told me of Obama. “It gets you nowhere.”
拜登显然对新总统心存厌恶；他在总统选举期间说过，如果他和特朗普都是高中生，看到对方夸耀对女性上下其手时的样子，他一定会“把他带到体育馆后边”。特朗普让他想起了小时候那些拿他口吃的毛病嘲弄他，管他叫“拜、拜、拜登”的霸凌者。但这位向来认为所有政治都带有私人感情色彩的政治人物，却希望在涉及特朗普的问题上只对事不对人。“总统和我都认为，进行人身攻击没有任何意义，”他在谈及奥巴马时说。“这样做不会有任何出路。”
Biden’s biggest worry is that Trump, for all his bluster, could be a global bystander, unwilling to engage a messy world with anything more than chest-thumping. “The question I get everywhere is: ‘Is American leadership going to continue?’ ” he told me on Air Force Two. If Trump “just stays behind the lines — hands off — it could be very ugly. Very, very ugly.”
拜登最担心的是，尽管总是咄咄逼人，但特朗普有可能成为全球事务的旁观者，不愿为收拾世界各地的烂摊子付出任何努力，只会拍胸脯说大话。“有个问题无时无刻不在困扰着我：‘美国的领导力还会保持下去吗？’”他在空军二号上告诉我。如果特朗普遇事“一味往后缩——袖手旁观——那情形会非常丑陋。非常非常丑陋。”
When they were Senate colleagues, and Biden was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Biden thought Obama was in too much of a hurry — and Obama found the chairman a tad condescending. But in the White House, the two men became exceptionally close. “There was never a point,” Obama told me recently, “where I thought he was distancing himself from me or positioning himself. Never been a time when he wasn’t telling me something he really thought.” Their families, too, drew together. “Family has been central for us — that’s our baseline,” Obama told me. “We both feel freer to do what we think is right because if it doesn’t work out, our families will still love us.”
拜登与奥巴马同在参议院任职，并担任外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席那会儿，他觉得奥巴马做事太急了——奥巴马则觉得这位主席有点居高临下。但在白宫，两人变得分外亲密。奥巴马最近告诉我：“我认为他从没在哪件事上和我保持距离或者为自己布局铺路。也从没在哪一刻对我掩饰内心的真实想法。”他们的家人也常常聚在一起。“家庭对我们而言至关重要——那是我们的底线。”奥巴马告诉我。“我们都可以自由自在地去做我们认为对的事情，因为即便没能成功，我们的家人也依然会爱我们。”
Biden later told friends that he thought the president was sincerely looking out for him in 2015 when he advised him not to run — though he also felt Obama had grown fond of the bright mark he could leave on history by passing the baton from the first black president to the first female president.
拜登后来告诉友人，他认为总统在2015年建议他不要参选时，是真心实意地为他着想——尽管他也觉得，奥巴马此前越来越希望能让接力棒从第一位黑人总统手中传递到第一位女性总统手中，从而在历史上留下浓墨重彩的一笔。
The big question now is when, and how, they will re-enter the arena. Obama has already said that, unlike George W. Bush, he won’t refrain from commenting on his successor. Biden may go further. Amid discussion of resistance to Trump, he surprised me with talk of 2020, when he’ll turn 78. “I’ll run,” the vice president deadpanned, “if I can walk.” Three days later, he informed the Washington press corps that he wasn’t joking.
现今的大问题是，他们会在何时、以怎样的方式重回竞技场。奥巴马已经说了，不同于乔治·W·布什( George W. Bush)，他不会避免评论自己的继任者。拜登则可能更进一步。谈到抵制特朗普这个话题时，他谈及了对2020年，也就是他78岁那年的打算，让我吃了一惊。“我会参选，”副总统一本正经地说道，“如果我还能走得动路的话。”三天后，他告诉华盛顿记者团，他没开玩笑。
Biden isn’t likely to run, but keeping the door ajar gives him a bigger voice in Democratic Party debates. The one that worries him most is over repositioning to win back Trump voters. He has little patience with Democrats who want to move either left or right. “ ‘We gotta move to the center,’ ‘We gotta move to those white guys,’ ‘We gotta move to those working-class people’ or ‘We gotta double down on the social agenda.’ ” It’s a false choice, he said: “They are totally compatible. I have never said anything to the A.C.L.U. that I wouldn’t say to the Chamber of Commerce.”
拜登不太可能参选，但保持这种可能性会让他在民主党内部的争论中更具话语权。最令他感到焦虑的就是关于如何重新定位，以便让支持特朗普的选民回心转意的讨论。对于那些想向左转或向右转的民主党人，他没有什么耐心。“‘我们得朝中间走，’‘我们得向那些白人靠拢，’‘我们得向工人阶级靠拢，’或者‘我们得在社会议程上押更多筹码。’”这是一道错误的选择题，他说：“它们完全可以兼容。我从来都没对美国公民自由联盟(ACLU)说过任何不会对美国商会(Chamber of Commerce)说的话。”