WASHINGTON — Speaking to longshoremen, local politicians and health care activists last week in Houston, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. variously quoted his grandfather Ambrose Finnegan, his father, Joe Sr., and the poet William Butler Yeats. “Joey,” he recalled his grandfather hollering, “keep the faith!”
华盛顿——上周在休斯敦对码头工人、当地政界人士和医保倡议人士讲话时，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)多方面引述了其祖父安布罗斯·芬尼根(Ambrose Finnegan)、其父老乔(Joe Sr.)，以及诗人威廉·巴特勒·叶芝(William Butler Yeats)的话。他回忆起祖父对自己说的话：“乔伊，要坚守信念！”
Mr. Biden can certainly talk, and he is talking a lot these days. As discouraged Democrats face the debacle over the Affordable Care Act and worries about the midterm elections next year, Mr. Biden’s job is rallying the fearful and operating as a backup to a distracted President Obama.
拜登当然很会说话，这些日子他也确实说了很多话。当气馁的民主党人面临着《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的崩溃，并且为明年的中期选举忧心忡忡时，拜登的任务就是团结这些担惊受怕的人，同时为在多件事情上分神的奥巴马总统当好后盾。
In recent days, he was talking to former colleagues in the Senate opposed to the administration’s preliminary nuclear accord with Iran, a deal reached in part through secret talks in Oman that included Mr. Biden’s national security adviser, Jake Sullivan. As the vice president takes a lead role in pushing against new congressional sanctions on Iran, he has phoned, among others, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, an influential Democratic critic of the deal.
最近，他和参议院一些反对政府与伊朗达成初步核协议的旧同事进行了交谈，该协议部分上是通过在阿曼举行的秘密谈判达成的，拜登的国家安全顾问杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)参与了那次谈判。这位副总统带头反对国会对伊朗进行新的制裁，他已给一些人打了电话，其中包括纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)，他是批评伊朗协议的民主党人中影响力较大的一位。
He is also poised for any deal-making in budget talks in Congress, though the prospects are virtually nil for the long-sought “grand bargain” to reduce future debt.
此外，他还盼望着国会的预算谈判中能达成什么交易，虽然达成长远的“大妥协”以减少未来债务的可能性几乎为零。
But inevitably, time and circumstances have altered the dynamic for Mr. Biden in the second-term White House. He is in limbo on seeking the presidency in 2016, and the speculation has injected tension: While Mr. Obama has stayed neutral about whether Mr. Biden or Hillary Rodham Clinton, his former secretary of state, should run, some Democrats detect from the president’s appearances with Mrs. Clinton that he sees her as a more natural successor.
但不可避免的是，时间和环境已经改变了拜登在第二次白宫任期中的作为。他是否参加2016年总统之位的角逐，仍然悬而未决，但这种猜想制造了紧张：对于让拜登还是前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)参加总统竞选，奥巴马一直保持中立态度，但一些民主党人认为，从奥巴马与克林顿共同露面来看，他倾向于认为她才是理所当然的继任者。
Mr. Biden is involved in more disparate issues than in the first term, when big challenges preoccupied an administration that had inherited a global recession and two wars. In the first term, having established that he did not want second-tier tasks, Mr. Biden oversaw the withdrawal from Iraq and the economic stimulus programs of the two-year Recovery Act. He also twice closed budget deals with the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. (In the process, he irked the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, who passed word for Mr. Biden to butt out from then on.)
与第一次任期相比，拜登现在参与的事务更加多样化；第一任期的两大挑战来自全球经济衰退和两场战争，当时拜登已经表明了自己不想做次要工作，他负责监督了美军从伊拉克撤离，以及为期两年的《复苏法》(Recovery Act)经济刺激方案。他还两次跟参议院共和党领袖、肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)达成了预算交易。（在这个过程中，他惹恼了参议院多数党领袖、内华达州的哈里·里德[Harry Reid]，此人传话让拜登从那之后别再多嘴。）
Mr. Biden “continues to have a significant place in the White House, to be an important voice in foreign policy,” said John D. Podesta, a chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. “Obviously, Obama doesn’t always take his advice on foreign policy, but I think he continues to be a person whom Obama consults closely.”
拜登“继续在白宫占据了一个显著位置，并成为外交政策中的一个重要声音，”曾任比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统幕僚长的约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)说。“显然，奥巴马不见得每次都听取他在外交政策上的意见，但我认为奥巴马还是经常会找他商讨事情的。”
“Above all that,” Mr. Podesta added, “he’s got a niche in the administration on policy and economics that plays to the fact that he has an ear for what’s happening with the middle class.”
“最重要的是，”波德斯塔说，“他在政府的外交政策和经济工作中有自己的一片天地，充分利用了他善于倾听中产阶级呼声这一点。”
On a recent trip to Houston and then to Panama, Mr. Biden was both the president’s economic messenger, pressing for job-creating aid for ports and other infrastructure, and his diplomatic surrogate. Among those Mr. Biden took along was Senator Johnny Isakson of Georgia, reflecting the vice president’s role as liaison to Senate Republicans as well as to Democrats — and as a gym buddy, too.
在近期一次前往休斯敦、然后去巴拿马的旅行中，拜登一方面是总统的经济使者，强烈呼吁为港口和其他基础设施创造就业机会，另一方面也是总统的外交代理人。拜登带着乔治亚州参议员约翰尼·艾萨克森(Johnny Isakson)一同前往，反映了他这个副总统既是民主党、也是参议院共和党联络人的角色——同时还是一个健身房伙伴。
“It’s a good bonding type of thing for him to be lifting weights or be on the treadmill and be talking — Joe’s always talking, so you always have communication,” Mr. Isakson said.
“这是一个联络感情的好办法，他一边举重或跑步，一边谈话——乔总是在说话，所以你会一直有交流，”艾萨克森说。
After Mr. Biden, a former chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, spent a day with Panama’s president, he returned to Washington and met with China’s vice premier, Slovakia’s prime minister and a deputy prime minister of Turkey, and then phoned Ukraine’s president. On Sunday, he leaves for China, Japan and South Korea.
曾任美国参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)前主席的拜登，在与巴拿马总统会晤了一天之后，回到华盛顿，会见了中国国务院副总理、斯洛伐克总理和土耳其副总理，然后给乌克兰总统打了电话。周日，他出发前往中国、日本和韩国。
Mr. Biden and his wife, Jill, also had an early Thanksgiving dinner with wounded veterans and their families, and the next morning Mr. Biden visited activists encamped and fasting on the National Mall in protest against House Republicans’ inaction on immigration legislation.
拜登和他的妻子吉尔(Jill)还提早与受伤退伍军人及其家人一起吃了感恩节晚餐，第二天早上，拜登去探望了在国家广场安营扎寨的活动者们，他们正在绝食抗议众议院共和党人对移民立法的不作为。
He remains, as Mr. Obama described him early on, like a basketball player “who does a bunch of things that don’t show up in the stat sheet.”
奥巴马曾经形容拜登是一个“做了很多统计数据上看不出来的工作”的篮球运动员，他现在仍然是这样。
Mr. Biden went to Panama to highlight the expansion of the canal and the need to modernize American ports to accommodate huge cargo ships that by 2015 will push through the isthmus. Besides Houston, he recently visited Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah and a rail center in Ohio that is part of the nation’s cargo delivery network.
这次对巴拿马的访问，拜登着重强调了巴拿马运河的扩建工作，以及美国港口需要进行现代化改造，以便容纳2015年时穿过巴拿马地峡到达这里的巨型货轮。除了休斯敦之外，他最近还去了巴尔的摩、查尔斯顿、萨凡纳，以及俄亥俄州一个铁路中心，那里属于美国物流网络的一部分。
The anniversary on Dec. 14 of the school massacre in Newtown, Conn. — Mr. Obama directed Mr. Biden to propose gun legislation after the shooting — will be a reminder of the inability to overcome opposition from Congress and the gun lobby to new firearms restrictions. Twenty-three executive actions, however, have been completed.
去年12月14日，美国康涅狄格州纽敦镇小学枪击案。该案发生之后，奥巴马让拜登负责枪支监管立法。枪击案一周年在即，政府还是无法冲破国会和持枪自由游说者对新的限枪提案的阻碍。但是政府已经采取了23项行政行动。
The president and Mr. Biden still meet at least once a day when both are in Washington, and they lunch weekly. Last Wednesday, when Mr. Biden turned 71, Mr. Obama gave him a putting green for his office. “They have had a very strong partnership,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, an administration ally. “And Joe knows that.”
奥巴马和拜登都在华盛顿的时候，两人每天至少碰一次面，而且每周都会共进午餐。上周三拜登71岁生日，奥巴马送给他一个室内高尔夫果岭。“他们之间的合作伙伴关系非常牢固，”伊利诺伊州民主党参议员、奥巴马政府盟友理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)说，“乔很清楚这一点。”