Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. held a parade of meetings Tuesday with India’s top political leaders, but the most important part of his trip to India will begin Wednesday when he is expected to discuss with India’s business elite in Mumbai the growing concerns about India’s economy.
美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)周二与印度高级领导人举行一系列会谈，但拜登这次印度之行的重中之重在周三，届时他将在孟买与印度商界精英一起讨论人们对印度经济越来越多的担忧。
Mr. Biden started his trip Monday afternoon with a visit to the memorial to Mohandas K. Gandhi, who is considered India’s founding father. Mr. Biden wrote a tribute to Mr. Gandhi in the visitor’s book, calling Mr. Gandhi “one man who changed the world.”
拜登印度之行的第一站是周一下午参观莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)博物馆，甘地被视为印度的国父。拜登在参观者留言簿上向甘地表达了敬意，称他“一个人改变了世界”。
On Tuesday, Mr. Biden held meetings with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, President Pranab Mukherjee, Vice President Mohammad Hamid Ansari and Sushma Swaraj, a leader of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party. A banquet in Mr. Biden’s honor was scheduled for Tuesday night, after which he was scheduled to fly to India’s financial capital, Mumbai.
周二，拜登与印度总理曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)、总统普拉纳布·慕克吉(Pranab Mukherjee)、副总统默罕默德·哈米德·安萨里(Mohammad Hamid Ansari)，以及反对党印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)领导人苏什玛·史瓦拉吉(Sushma Swaraj)分别举行了会谈。周二晚上，拜登将出席招待他的晚宴，之后将飞往印度的金融中心孟买。
Mr. Biden’s trip is part of a long-term effort to convince India’s officials and people that the days when Pakistan, India’s longtime rival, was the United States’ favorite friend in South Asia are over. Mr. Biden’s trip is the first by an American vice president in nearly 30 years, and it comes one month after Secretary of State John Kerry traveled to New Delhi, the capital, to discuss climate change and diplomacy.
拜登此次印度之行是美国一项长期努力的一部分，美国想说服印度官员和人民，巴基斯坦是美国在南亚的最好朋友的时代已经一去不复返，巴基斯坦是印度长期以来的对手。拜登的到访是近30年来美国副总统首次访问印度，一个月前，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)曾访问印度首都新德里，讨论气候变化和外交问题。
But Mr. Biden is expected to deliver more than just happy talk about the growing strategic and cultural ties between the United States and India. While in Mumbai, he is expected to voice growing concerns about India’s economy and its openness to foreign investment before leaving for Singapore Thursday night.
然而，人们预计拜登会讨论超出美国和印度之间不断增强的战略和文化纽带这些愉快话题以外的东西。在孟买期间，预计他会表达人们对印度经济及其对外国投资开放程度上越来越多的担忧。之后在周四夜间，拜登将前往新加坡。
Investors from the United States and around the globe once flocked to India, drawn by its rapid economic growth, gradual economic liberalization and huge population. But in the last decade, many American companies have found the going far tougher than expected, and their complaints are beginning to resonate in Washington.
美国和世界上的投资者曾一度涌向印度，他们被印度快速的经济增长、经济的逐步自由化，以及大量的人口所吸引。但在过去十年里，很多美国公司发现在印度投资远比预期得要难，他们的抱怨开始在华盛顿得到共鸣。
The problems that companies confront here — endemic corruption, shifting government rules and poor infrastructure, among others — seemed less dire when the Indian economy was growing at a blistering rate. But growth has slowed to 5 percent over the past year, and those issues have become far greater irritants.
企业在印度遇到的问题，比如大范围的腐败、不断变化的政府法规，以及落后的基础设施等，在印度经济高速增长时似乎显得不那么严重。但去年经济增速已经放缓至5%，这些问题开始给人带来更多的烦恼。
Mr. Biden’s complaints about India’s investment climate are likely to be greeted with some sympathy in Mumbai, since even Indian companies have begun looking for growth outside their country’s borders. Investments by both foreign and domestic companies have fallen over the last five years to 31 percent of the country’s gross domestic product from nearly 38 percent, said Subir Gokarn, director of research at Brookings India, with crucial sectors like manufacturing and mining doing especially poorly.
拜登对印度投资环境的抱怨可能会在孟买得到一些响应，因为就连印度公司也开始在国外寻找增长机会。布鲁金斯学会印度中心(Brookings India)负责人苏比·戈卡恩(Subir Gokarn)说，过去5年来，外国和国内企业的投资从占印度国内生产总值的近38%降至31%，制造和采矿等关键产业的投资减少情况尤甚。
The Indian rupee has lost about 9 percent of its value against the dollar in recent months, a decline exceeded only by the Brazilian real among major emerging market currencies. India has substantial budget and current account deficits, and inflation is running at nearly 10 percent annually.
最近几个月，印度卢比与美元的汇率降低了约9%，在主要新兴市场中，这仅次于巴西雷亚尔与美元汇率的跌幅。
The country’s central bank has been faced with the difficult task of defending the currency by trying to raise short-term interest rates without pushing up long-term rates, which would further slow growth. But the Reserve Bank of India took the unusual step last week of withdrawing a bond sale after investors insisted on interest rates that were higher than the government’s bankers wanted to pay.
印度中央银行一直面临着维护本国货币的艰巨任务，它试图靠提高短期利率来避免卢比贬值，但又怕引起长期利率的提高，因为那样将会进一步放慢经济增长速度。但是印度央行在上周采取了不同寻常的做法，取消了一次债券发行，因为投资者坚持要求债券以高于政府的银行家愿意支付的利率发行。
India’s government has taken steps to put its fiscal house in order by reducing fuel subsidies, a hugely expensive program that largely benefits the rich. Last week, the government announced a loosening of restrictions on certain foreign investments.
印度政府已经采取措施通过削减燃料补贴来维持财政秩序，燃料补贴项目的代价极高，但受益者大部分是富人。上周，政府宣布放松对一些外国投资的限制。
But national elections scheduled for next year are likely to mean that the government will be loath to make additional cuts to popular welfare projects, said Sreeram Chaulia, a professor and dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs. A new food security bill could even expand such social spending significantly.
但是，金达尔国际关系学院(Jindal School of International Affairs)院长斯里哈姆·肖利亚(Sreeram Chaulia)教授说，计划于明年举行的国家大选可能意味着这届政府将不会愿意削减更多的公众福利项目。一项新食品安全法案甚至还会大幅增加这种社会开支。
“Right now, this government is concerned about winning the next election,” Mr. Chaulia said.
肖利亚说，“现在，这届政府关心的是要赢得下次选举。”
Mr. Biden also intends to push India for further defense cooperation and more arms purchases from the United States, according to a senior Obama administration official.
据奥巴马政府一名高官称，拜登还打算给印度施压，希望与其在防御上展开进一步合作，也希望印度从美国购买更多的武器。
India has long resisted becoming too close to the American military. But recent border tensions between India and China have jangled nerves in New Delhi and made officials here strive to improve India’s defense manufacturing abilities, something the United States has said it could help achieve.
印度一直不想与美国军方靠得太近。但最近中印度边境的紧张局势增加了新德里的担忧，也让这里的官员增强了提升印度国防工业制造能力的决心，而美国已称在这方面能帮印度一把。