TOKYO — Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. delivered a carefully calibrated show of support for Japan on Tuesday, declaring the United States was “deeply concerned” about China’s move to control airspace contested with Japan. But he stopped short of demanding that China retreat, and urged the feuding neighbors to talk to each other.
东京——副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R.Biden Jr.)周二用谨慎的口吻表达了对日本的支持，他宣称，美国对中国采取行动试图控制其与日本有争议的空域的做法“深表关切”。但他没有要求中国撤回行动，他呼吁这两个不和的邻国展开对话。
Mr. Biden’s statement, at the start of an unexpectedly challenging trip to Asia that includes a stop in Beijing, captured the strategic complexities for the United States in the tense showdown between Japan and China over disputed claims in the East China Sea.
拜登的声明充分体现了美国在中日两国东海领土纠纷的紧要关头所面临的战略复杂性，声明发表在他此次亚洲之行的起点，此行出乎意料地充满挑战，还将包括访问北京。
China, Mr. Biden said, was trying to “unilaterally change the status quo in the East China Sea,” with an air defense identification zone that he said “raised regional tensions and increased the risk of accidents and miscalculation.” He said he would raise the American concerns in detail when he meets with the Chinese leadership on Wednesday.
拜登说，中国正试图用设立防空识别区的做法“单方面改变东海的现状”，他说种做法“增加了地区的紧张局势，增加了意外和误判的风险”。拜登说他将在周三与中国领导人会晤时更详细地向他们阐述美国的担心。
But rather than call for China to roll back its defense zone, as the Japanese government has called on China to do, Mr. Biden said that China and Japan needed “crisis management mechanisms and effective channels of communication” to avoid the risk of an accident or miscalculation.
但是拜登说，中国和日本需要“危机管理机制以及有效的沟通渠道”以规避出现意外或误判的风险，他没有像日本政府呼吁的那样，要求中国撤消这一防空识别区。
“The only conflict that is worse than one that is intended is one that is unintended,” Mr. Biden said, quoting his father, as an unsmiling Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stood next to him.
拜登引用自己父亲的话说，“唯一比有意制造冲突更糟糕的冲突，是无意制造的冲突。”拜登讲此番话时，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)面无笑容的地站在他旁边。
For his part, Mr. Abe said the United States and Japan would “not tolerate the attempt by China to change the status quo by force.” He said both countries reaffirmed that they would not alter any joint military operations because of China’s zone, and he added, “We will not condone any action that will threaten the safety of civilian aircraft.”
安倍晋三讲话时说，美国和日本将“不会容忍中国用武力改变现状的企图”。他说，两国都重申不会因为中国的防空识别区而改变任何联合军事行动，他还补充说，“我们不能宽恕任何将给民用飞机带来危险的行为。”
That appeared to be an attempt to smooth over a disconnect between the United States and Japan over the weekend, after the Federal Aviation Administration advised American carriers to identify themselves when entering the restricted zone. The Japanese government has instructed its carriers to ignore the Chinese demand.
这句话看来是试图平息美国和日本周末出现的分歧的一种努力，分歧出现在联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）建议美国航空公司在进入这一识别区时向中国通报身份之后。日本政府曾下令本国的航空公司不理睬中国的要求。
Administration officials insisted there was no daylight between the United States and Japan on how to respond to China’s move. The F.A.A.'s guidance, they said, was no different than it would have been in any other case where a country issued a warning to planes or ships.
美国政府的官员坚称，美国和日本在如何回应中国的这一行动上没有差别。他们说，FAA的指南无异于他们在任何其他国家对飞机或轮船发出警告的情况下所采取的做法。
“Nothing that F.A.A. has done constitutes any acceptance or recognition of this,” said a senior administration official who is traveling with Mr. Biden. “The U.S. has clearly set forth that our military aircraft will continue to operate normally.”
一位陪同拜登出访的政府高级官员说，“FAA的任何做法都不意味着接受或承认这个识别区。美国已清楚地表明，我们的军用飞机将继续它们的正常飞行。”
Administration officials said Mr. Biden would urge China not to create any other such zones and to show restraint in policing this one. But neither the vice president nor his aides made any reference to asking the Chinese to rescind its action.
政府官员说，拜登将呼吁中国不要再设立任何其他的类似空域，并在监控这个识别区上表现出克制。但不管是副总统本人、还是其助手都没有提及任何要求中国撤消其行动的说法。
The Japanese government perceives the Chinese air defense identification zone, which covers a wide swath of the East China Sea, as an attempt by the Chinese to assert control over a clump of disputed islands, known in the Japan as the Senkaku and in China as the Diaoyu. Japan has a long-established air defense identification zone of its own that covers much of the same area of the sea, including the islands. The dispute has raised tensions in the region to their highest level in nearly two decades.
日本政府将中国设立防空识别区的行为，视为中国企图夺取对一群有争议岛屿的控制权，该识别区覆盖了东海中的大片海域，将这些在日本被称作尖阁诸岛、在中国被称为钓鱼岛的有争议岛屿包括在内。日本很早就设立了自己的防空识别区，覆盖了东海中包括这些岛屿在内的大部分同样区域。此次争端让该地区的紧张局势升级到近20年来的最高水平。
In Beijing, a foreign ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, said China’s defense zone was fully in compliance with international law. Mr. Hong suggested that China was open to the idea of establishing crisis-management mechanisms. But he quickly added that Japan was not.
外交部发言人洪磊在北京说，中国的防空识别区完全符合国际法。洪磊暗示，中国对建立危机管理机制的主意持开放态度，但他马上补充说，日本不愿意。
“The Japanese side unilaterally, on one hand, declares they want dialogue, but then they close the door to dialogue,” he said. “We ask the Japanese side to change their mistakes.”
他说，“日方一方面口口声声称始终敞开对话大门，但真要对话，它又关起门来。我们要求日方纠正错误。”
For Mr. Biden, the dispute has been a distraction on a trip that he hoped would cover a range of other issues, from a trans-Pacific trade agreement to the nuclear threat in North Korea.
对拜登来说，这一争端搅乱了他此次出访的任务，他本来希望能讨论范围广泛的其他问题，从泛太平洋贸易协议到朝鲜核威胁。
But Mr. Biden still found time to tour a Japanese Internet company founded and run by a female entrepreneur, Tomoko Namba. Joined by Ambassador Caroline Kennedy, he chatted with five female employees in a leather banquette at the company’s sleek Tokyo offices.
但是，拜登仍找到时间去了一家由女企业家南场智子(Tomoko Namba)创立的日本互联网公司访问。在美国驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)的陪同下，他在该公司东京总部的优美办公室中，与坐在无扶手真皮长沙发上的5位女员工进行了交谈。
“Do your husbands like you working full-time?” Mr. Biden asked the women, who nodded energetically. He also inquired whether the company, known as DeNA, offered child-care service and whether female employees were allowed to work from home.
拜登问她们，“你们全职工作，丈夫高兴吗？”她们使劲地点头。他还问了这家名为DeNA的公司是否提供托儿服务以及女员工是否被允许在家工作。
Mr. Biden seemed to delight in being accompanied around Tokyo by Ms. Kennedy, whose name has given her celebrity status in a post that has frequently been held by prominent political figures, including one of Mr. Biden’s predecessors, Walter F. Mondale.
拜登看来对在东京有肯尼迪女士的陪伴感到高兴，肯尼迪这个姓给了她在大使岗位上的名人身份，这个岗位通常由著名政治人物占据，包括拜登的一位前任沃尔特·F·蒙代尔(Walter F. Mondale)。
Before his meeting with Mr. Abe, the vice president jokingly introduced himself by saying, “My name is Joe Biden, and I’m accompanying the ambassador” – a line that echoed John F. Kennedy’s famous quip when he was overshadowed on the presidential trip to France in 1961 by his glamorous wife, Jacqueline Kennedy.
在与安倍晋三会面之前，这位副总统开玩笑地介绍自己说，“我叫乔·拜登，我陪这位大使访问。”这句话与约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)1961年访问法国时的一句著名自我讽刺相呼应，当时肯尼迪被自己迷人的妻子杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)抢了风头。