A blistering fictionalized tale straight out of China, “A Touch of Sin” is at once monumental and human scale. A story of lives rocked by violence, it has the urgency of a screaming headline but one inscribed with visual lyricism, emotional weight and a belief in individual rights. You can feel the conviction of its director, Jia Zhang-ke — one of the few filmmakers of any nationality who weighs the impact of social and political shifts on people — in every shot. In “A Touch of Sin,” the world isn’t an amorphous backdrop, pretty scenery for private dramas, it is a stage on which men and women struggle to fulfill basic moral obligations, including recognizing one another’s humanity.
《天注定》来自中国，是一个愤怒的虚构故事，既庄严又富于人性。它有着大声疾呼般的迫切题材，但却用视觉的诗意讲述被暴力撼动的人生，为它们赋予深沉的情感和对个人价值的信仰。导演贾樟柯是世界范围内少有的、注重社会与政治变迁对人们影响的导演，他的信念贯穿全片每一个镜头。《天注定》中的世界并不是一团混乱的背景，个体的戏剧在这个漂亮的布景前面展开；它更像一个舞台，男人与女人在上面勉强挣扎着履行最基本的道德义务，辨认彼此内心的人性。
Divided into four main sections, each centered on a different character, the movie opens near a northern town where a man in a green army coat, Dahai (an imposing Jiang Wu), has started a solitary campaign against the village chief and the local boss, who have grown rich selling collective property. Most of the villagers turn away from Dahai and his protests, laughing and grimacing by turns, seemingly resigned to what some might be called fate. Mr. Jia, however, is interested in forces beyond the providential. What concerns him are people who, caught in the jaws of historical change, are battered, exploited and dehumanized by others who now value only things, like the private plane that the big boss buys and the Maserati that he parks unlocked in front of his factory.
电影分为四部分，每部分都以一个不同的人物为中心。它始于北方小镇上身穿绿军装的大海（仪表庄严的姜武饰演），他独自发起了一场对村干部和当地老板的战役，他们靠出卖集体财产发财致富。大多数村民漠视大海和他的抗议，对他报以嘲笑和鬼脸，似乎屈从于某些人所谓的“命运”。然而贾樟柯却对天意之外的力量更感兴趣。他关注那些被历史变迁攫住的人们如何被另一部分人打击、利用、夺去人性；这些剥夺者们只看重物质，诸如片中大老板的私人飞机和他不上锁就停在工厂门口的玛莎拉蒂轿车。
Shiny totems of the new China, these luxury items are in striking contrast to the village’s forlorn statue of Mao (representative of a fading belief system) and its Buddhist temple (symbol of yet older beliefs), at which Dahai takes a brutal, lonely stand. Yet while he is very much a man alone, his presence, fight against corruption and convictions rise like ghosts later in the movie, when prostitutes working in a luxurious nightclub march out in Vegas-style versions of Red Army uniforms that are perverse mockeries of Dahai’s humble coat. In some movies, such connecting moments can be quasi-mystical and sentimental (we are the world) and tend to gut whatever political point hovers in the vicinity. Here, the characters are connected by their existential reality of being alive in contemporary China.
这些奢侈品是新中国的闪亮图腾，它们与村子里被废弃的毛主席雕像（代表消失的旧信仰体系）乃至佛寺（代表更旧的信仰）形成鲜明对比，大海在佛寺里独自采取了残忍的手段。他是一个孤独的人，影片后面，在豪华夜总会里工作的妓女穿着改装成拉斯维加斯式样的红军军装游行，这是对大海那身破烂衣衫的变态嘲讽；而大海的存在，他与腐败的斗争和他的信念像幽魂一样冉冉升起。在某些电影中，这样人与人之间发生联系的时刻可能会显得近乎神秘，多情善感（我们就是世界），并且倾向于破坏片中的政治观点。而这里，人物因为在当代中国生存的存在主义现实而彼此联系。
Dahai’s story is followed by that of Zhou San (the quietly chilling Wang Baoqiang), who rides into the movie on a motorcycle wearing black and a Chicago Bulls watch cap. He’s returning to his home in Chongqing, a huge southwestern city on the upper Yangtze River that’s set against the scarred beauty of the mountainous Three Gorges region, now the site of the largest hydroelectric project in the world. Here, high-rises pierce the hazy sky and peasants grow vegetables on riverbanks. No one seems happy to see Zhou San, who pinches his son’s cheeks until the boy cries. His wife looks away; his mother looks through him. There’s menace in his every gesture but what they can’t know is that he has recently gunned down three men in what feels like a Hobbesian war of all against all.
大海的故事之后是周三儿（安静冷酷的王宝强饰演）的故事，他一身黑衣，头戴芝加哥公牛队的篮球帽，骑着摩托车驶进片中。他正要回到故乡重庆——中国西南部长江上游一个大城市，与三峡地区伤痕累累的多山美景之间形成了对比——那里正在兴建世界上最大的水电工程。这里，高楼耸入雾霾的天空，农民在河岸边种菜。没有人乐意看到周三儿，他拧儿子的脸，把孩子拧哭了；妻子远远打量着他，母亲对他视而不见。他的每个手势里都含着威胁，但他们不知道，他最近刚刚带着霍布斯主义人人皆敌式的冷酷枪杀了三个男人。
“A Touch of Sin” builds with implacable tension and urgency. This, Mr. Jia seems to be saying, is happening right here, right now. The eruptions of violence, some of it bloody, add to the intensity as do other filmmaking choices. Mr. Jia has long blurred the line between fiction and nonfiction through his use of digital cinematography, which helps convey a sense of documentarylike immediacy, and through real locations and nonprofessional performers working alongside trained actors. In his movies, characters feel as if they live in a world that’s so rapidly changing, so unsettled and destabilizing, that it seems the very ground under them is collapsing along with innumerable social, political and aesthetic frameworks.
《天注定》营造了一种难以平息的紧张感和紧迫感。贾樟柯似乎想说，这些就是此时此刻正在发生的事情。暴力的摩擦和其血腥以及其他电影手法共同为影片增添了紧张感。长期以来，贾樟柯一直通过数码摄影方式模糊虚构与非虚构之间的界限，并以实景拍摄，以及非专业演员与专业演员共同出演的方式，带来纪录片式的直接感。在他的影片中，人物仿佛生活在一个飞速改变、动荡不安的世界，脚下的立足之处都在分崩离析，随之动摇的还有无数社会、政治与美学框架。
The third section follows a woman, Xiao Yu, a sauna receptionist played by Zhao Tao, Mr. Jia’s wife and frequent star. A dreamy, rootless character, Xiao Yu wears her long hair in a ponytail that brings to mind that of the heroine in King Hu’s classic martial arts film “A Touch of Zen” — a touchstone here for Mr. Jia — and is having an affair with a married man. Her story opens soon before she gives her lover an ultimatum; in return, he gives her a knife that will find its mark. Later, she unknowingly follows the same footsteps as the character in the final section, a young man, Xiao Hui (Luo Lanshan, a delicate, sweet-faced newcomer), who’s spiraling into debt and despair.
影片第三部分的主人公是桑拿浴室的接待员小玉，由贾樟柯的妻子、老搭档赵涛饰演。小玉是一个不切实际、爱做梦的女孩，长发梳成马尾，令人想起胡金铨经典武侠片《女侠》（对于贾樟柯来说，这部片子在这里是一个标志）里的女主人公，她和一个有妇之夫有一段恋情。她的故事很快展开——她给情人下了最后通牒，于是他给了她一把刀子，这把刀后来派上了用场。后来，她不知不觉地走上了和影片最后一部分的主人公，年轻的小辉（由长着细致可爱面孔的新演员罗蓝山饰）同样的道路，陷入债务与绝望的漩涡。
Violence sometimes shifts “A Touch of Sin” into a more stylized register, momentarily loosening the realism. When Dahai picks up a shotgun in the first section, there’s a pan to the image of a tiger, and you hear a roar, as if Dahai were possessed by the animal, one of the 12 in the Chinese Zodiac. In the third section, Xiao Yu is beaten and takes shelter in a surrealistic sideshow in which “holy snakes” slither around a young woman’s feet. But after Xiao Yu is beaten a second time, she, too, seems transformed and assumes the stance of a martial-arts warrior, striking exaggerated poses with a raised knife amid the now-Expressionistic light and shadow.
暴力有时会令《天注定》在刹那间放开它的现实主义，进入一个更为形式化的领域。第一部分里，大海拿起枪，镜头移动拍摄一幅老虎（虎是中国的12生肖之一）的画面，你听到一声咆哮，仿佛大海被这头猛兽附身了。在第三部分，小玉被打了，她逃进一个超现实的杂耍团，里面有“圣蛇”环绕年轻女人双脚的表演。但当小玉第二次被打时，她好像脱胎换骨，摆出武侠片中战士的架势，在极具表现主义风格的光影效果中以非常夸张的姿态举起刀子。
The transformation of Dahai and Xiao Yu is of a piece with the everyday surrealism that Mr. Jia, working with his brilliant cinematographer Yu Likwai, finds in cities, villages and along highways. At the same time, the transformation of these characters into archetypes, like Mr. Jia’s references to Chinese opera, implies there are other stories, forms and beliefs that China can embrace beyond those represented either by a Mao statue or a private plane. Time is running out, as suggested late in the movie, when a young man and woman slip some live goldfish into a stream, enacting a Buddhist ritual in which captive animals are released to encourage compassion. The animals of course need to be trapped so they can be freed, a dreadful paradox that these two imprisoned people will never experience.
贾樟柯与出色的摄影师余力为通力合作，在中国的城市、村庄与公路寻找日常的超现实主义，大海与小玉的变形亦是其中一部分。与此同时，这些角色的变型成为原型，就像贾樟柯引用中国传统戏剧，暗示中国在毛泽东塑像与私人飞机所代表的东西之间，还有其他故事、形式与信仰可以接纳。正如影片最后所暗示的，时间所剩无几，一对年轻男女把几条活金鱼放入河流，这是佛教的放生仪式，目的是鼓励慈悲。但为了被放生，这些动物首先需要被捕捉，这个可怕的悖论是那两个身陷囹圄的人永远不会经历的。