In a city that is knee-deep in preservationists willing to do almost anything to keep new construction from erasing the past, it might seem surprising to find a young man who has made a career out of promoting the new. But Nikolai Fedak, the creator and mastermind of New York Yimby, a pro-development blog turned website, does not find this strange at all.
保护主义者们为防止新建筑抹去历史的痕迹，几乎总是无所不用其极。而在一个保护主义者泛滥的城市里，还能找到一个以推动新开发项目为事业的年轻人，或许挺令人意外的。但是，New York Yimby网站的创始人和灵魂人物尼古拉·费达克(Nikolai Fedak)丝毫不这么觉得。这家网站是从一个以支持开发为诉求的博客演变而来的。
“A lot of people my age support development,” said Mr. Fedak, 23, who is alarmingly knowledgeable about the ins and outs of development in the city and speaks with such enthusiasm and energy, words tumble out of his mouth at breakneck speed. “That’s why a lot of people come to the city. They’re here for a reason.”
“我的很多同龄人都是支持开发的，”23岁的费达克说，他对这个城市的开发情况惊人地了解，在一种热情洋溢、活力十足的状态下，他说起话来滔滔不绝、语速极快，“很多人来到这座城市，就是出于这个原因。他们来到这里是有理由的。”
New York Yimby — the acronym stands for Yes in My Back Yard, a wordplay on the more familiar Nimby (Not in My Back Yard) — is a lively, chatty site that is catnip to fans of the city’s ever expanding forest of high-rises.
“Yimby”（迎毗效应——译注）的全称是“Yes in My Back Yard”（“可以建在我家后院里”——译注），这个缩写是从人们更熟悉的“Nimby”（邻避效应，全称是“Not in My Back Yard”，指“不要建在我家后院”——译注）衍生来的俏皮话。New York Yimby是个气氛活跃、讨论热烈的网站，对于那些喜爱纽约市日益扩张的高楼丛林的人群而言，这家网站就好比猫薄荷一般的存在。
The site bristles with renderings, floor plans and Mr. Fedak’s own photographs charting the progress of new buildings. Data is gleaned from filings with the city’s Department of Buildings and interviews with developers and architects. Tips come from developers, architects, skyscraper buffs and even construction workers, who contribute pictures via Instagram.
网站上发布了许多建筑透视图、平面图和费达克自己拍的照片，照片记录了新建筑的施工进程。数据来源于纽约市楼宇局(Department of Buildings)的文件，以及开发商和建筑师的访谈录。这些爆料来源于开发商、建筑师、高楼大厦爱好者，甚至是建筑工人——他们会在Instagram上发布图片。
Postings are organized in catchy categories like “revealed,” “supertall city” and “upsized” along with the more prosaic “permits filed,” “demolition imminent” and “excavating begins.” Mr. Fedak updates the site so frequently, snapping and posting pictures so relentlessly, it seems he’s never far from his Samsung Galaxy S3 smartphone.
网站上的帖子按照特定的分类编排，有的分类名称比较吸引人，比如“消息披露”、“超高都市”、“扩建项目”；有的名称相对平庸，比如“获批存档”、“即将拆除”、“破土动工”。费达克更新站点的频率太高了，拍照传图的节奏太快了，好像他的三星Galaxy S3智能手机就从来没有离过身一样。
According to Google Analytics, the site attracts 75,000 visitors monthly, most of them from the real estate industry. By contrast, the real-estate blog Curbed New York — “my best friend on the Internet,” Mr. Fedak said — reports 1.2 million unique visits a month. “That’s my target,” he added.
根据谷歌分析(Google Analytics)的数据，这家网站每个月吸引了7.5万名访问者，其中大多数访问者从事的是房地产行业。相比之下，被费达克称为“我最好的网络盟友”的房地产博客Curbed New York，据报拥有每月120万次的独立访问(unique visits)数。“这是我的目标。”费达克说。
Mr. Fedak, who has intense blue eyes and short gelled hair and is typically outfitted in the downtown uniform of head-to-toe black, was discussing his professional baby in the aerie that serves as Yimby’s home base, the live/work loft belonging to his business partner, Dan George.
费达克生着一双犀利的蓝眼睛，短发上涂有发胶，从头到脚一袭黑色制服，一副典型的商业区职业装束。他在一座高层公寓里谈论着自己苦心经营的网站。这是一套经过改建的工作、生活两用跃层公寓，如今已是迎毗一族的大本营，房主是费达克的商业合伙人丹·乔治(Dan George)。
Mr. George is the creator of Drive Digital, a real estate marketing site, and his loft, which is also home to his puggle (beagle and pug mix), Jaws, overlooks Franklin Street through vast arched windows.
乔治是房地产营销网站Drive Digital的创始人。他和自己的哈巴小猎犬（puggle，哈巴狗和小猎犬的杂交品种）“大白鲨”(Jaws)一同住在这套跃层公寓里。透过其巨大的拱型窗，可以俯瞰富兰克林街(Franklin Street)。
Thanks to a mother who worked for the foreign service, Mr. Fedak spent his childhood bouncing around the globe — living in Germany and then Australia before his family settled in McLean, Va. Mr. Fedak traces his obsession with the cityscape to his early infatuation with SimCity, the addictive video game through which even youngsters can create and run their own virtual metropolis.
由于母亲从事外交工作，费达克从小就往来于世界各地——他先后在德国和澳大利亚居住过，后来全家人定居在了弗吉尼亚州的麦克莱恩(McLean)。费达克认为自己之所以醉心于都市景观，是因为小时候迷上了《模拟城市》(SimCity)。这是一款容易让人上瘾的电子游戏。在游戏中，就连小孩子也可以创建和运营自己的虚拟大都市。
“I started playing SimCity when I was 6 and by 9, I was a master,” said Mr. Fedak, a 2011 Fordham graduate and a former intern at the Clinton Global Initiative. “It definitely helped jump-start my fascination with architecture, since I’ve literally been building cities on computers since I was a child.”
“我从6岁就开始玩《模拟城市》，9岁成了行家，”费达克说。他于2011年毕业于福坦莫大学(Fordham graduate) ，曾在克林顿全球倡议(Clinton Global Initiative)项目中实习过。“我之所以会迷上建筑，肯定跟这个游戏有关，因为我相当于从小就开始在电脑上建造都市了。”
He believes that good development helps the city. “Yes, my site is pro-real estate,” he said. “But I see it as a positive site. At the end of the day, it says yes.”
他认为，好的开发项目能对一座城市起到积极作用。“的确，我的网站是拥护房产开发的，”他说，“不过，我认为这是一个积极正面的网站。每当一天结束时，它都在说‘是的’。”
His response to those who oppose development? “There’s a lot of hatred of development out there,” Mr. Fedak acknowledged. “But generally it comes from selfish people who don’t want to lose their views.” In his eyes, anyone who has a problem with tall buildings should high-tail it out of Dodge.
对于那些反对开发活动的人，他有什么看法呢？“开发活动面临着很多敌意，”费达克坦言，“但是怀有敌意的基本上都是些自私的人，他们不希望自家房子的视线被挡住。”在他看来，那些对高楼大厦有异议的人，只管快快回避就好了。
The breadth of its postings is one factor that is attracting advertisers to the site, among them Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
由于这个网站发布的信息覆盖面很广，广告商纷纷被吸引了过来，道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)就是其中之一。
“It’s a great place for us,” said Clifford Finn, an executive vice president for development marketing at Elliman. “What I like is that the site gives me snapshots and updates pertaining to new development. And by advertising on the site, we reach the people we want to reach, both in and outside the business.”
“对我们来说，这是个很好的地方，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼负责开发营销的执行副总裁克利福德·芬恩(Clifford Finn)说，“我喜欢这个网站的地方在于，它能给我带来有关新开发项目的快照和更新。我们在上面做广告，就能找到我们想找的客户，无论是业内人士还是其它领域的人。”
Mr. Fedak doesn’t love every new building. “At the end of the day, I don’t support all new development,” he said, adding that he would have been happy if the cantilever on the Nordstrom Tower, the Extell building sprouting at 217 West 57th Street, had never been greenlighted. “A big mistake,” he said. “The design could have been much better.”
也不是每座新建筑都能博得费达克的欣赏。“在一天结束的时候，我并不会宣传所有新开发项目，”他说，他还提到，如果诺德斯特姆大厦(Nordstrom Tower)的悬臂没有打绿光，他本来会喜欢这个项目。诺德斯特姆大厦是Extell在西57街217号开发的楼盘。“这是一大败笔，”他说，“设计效果原本会好很多。”
He had harsh words for Peter Poon’s new hotel at 307 West 37th Street. “Damn is it ugly ... his most hideous piece of work to date,” Mr. Fedak wrote on his site, describing a detail on the facade as “what appears to be an enormous fruit roll-up.”
他言辞激烈地炮轰了彼得·蓬(Peter Poon)在西37街设计的新酒店。“太他妈丑了……这是他目前为止最令人发指的作品，”费达克在他的网站上写道。他在描述大厦正面一处细节时说，“看起来就像个巨大的水果软糖卷。”
Mr. Fedak is also no fan of Gene Kaufman’s budget hotels on West 28th Street, dismissing them as “the Great Wall of Kaufman.” (The response of the targets to such barbs? Largely indifference, said Mr. Fedak, whose site is not the only one to have taken issues with their projects. In an email message, Mr. Kaufman’s office said he was not familiar with the site. Mr. Poon’s office did not respond to requests for comment.)
费达克也不喜欢吉恩·考夫曼(Gene Kaufman)在西28街设计的经济型酒店，将它们戏称为“考夫曼的长城”（面对这样的口诛笔伐，设计者们是怎么回应的呢？费达克说，他们大多漠不关心，因为他的网站并不是唯一一家报道这些项目的媒体。在一封电子邮件中，考夫曼的办公室声称他们不了解这家网站。蓬的办公室则没有回应置评要求）。
Mr. Fedak doesn’t mince words. But he acknowledged that his online blend of reporting and sharp-edged opinion has grown less cheeky over time.
费达克一向直言不讳。不过他承认，随着时间的推移，他那结合了报道与尖锐观点的网络言辞，也变得不那么张扬了。
Not surprisingly Mr. Fedak’s favorites among the city’s buildings are giants, among them many of the newcomers along 57th Street — “I definitely love 57th Street” — along with Christian de Portzamparc’s tower at 400 Park Avenue South and such golden oldies as the Gothic-tinged American Radiator Building on West 40th Street. The taller the building, the faster he talks and the more excited he sounds.
毫不意外的是，费达克在这座城市最喜欢的建筑都是庞然大物，包括57街的许多新建筑——“我真是爱死57街了”——还有克里斯蒂安·德·波特赞姆巴克(Christian de Portzamparc)在公园大道南400号设计的大厦，以及一些金碧辉煌的经典建筑，比如西40街的美国暖炉大楼(American Radiator Building)。楼越高，他的语速越快，语气越激动。
Although Mr. Fedak’s postings routinely find their way to sites like Curbed and the Real Deal, his site is unusual in that it both focuses on development in the city and beats the drum on its behalf, according to Michael Slattery, a senior vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York. And even many preservationists keep a watchful eye on Mr. Fedak’s updates.
虽然费达克的帖子经常被Curbed和Real Deal转载，但他的网站之所以独特，是因为它既关注这座城市的开发活动，又能传达它自己的独立观点，纽约房地产委员会(Real Estate Board of New York)的高级副总裁迈克尔·斯莱特里(Michael Slattery)表示。而且，就连许多保护主义者也密切关注着费达克的更新。
“He offers a very useful perspective,” said Andrew Berman, the longtime executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation. “We may differ in our opinions, but his site performs a real public service. If there’s a good new project out there, I’m as happy as anyone.”
“他提供了一个非常有用的视角，”在格林尼治村历史建筑保护协会(Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation)任职多年的执行主席安德鲁·伯曼(Andrew Berman)说，“我们的观点可能有分歧，但是他的网站切切实实提供了一项公共服务。如果有好的新项目，我也和其他人一样高兴。”
Mr. Fedak’s journey to Yimby began six years ago, when he moved to New York to attend Fordham, where he majored in political science. He embarked upon his blog in late 2011, shortly before starting at the Clinton Global Initiative, and expanded it when he moved to Surface, a design magazine. Last June he left Surface to concentrate on the site full time.
费达克的Yimby之旅开始于6年前。当时他搬到了纽约，于福坦莫大学学习政治学专业。2011年末，他开始写博客，不久后进入克林顿全球倡议项目实习。后来，他跳槽到设计杂志《Surface》。在为杂志社工作期间，他扩建了自己的网站。去年6月，他从《Surface》离职，开始专职经营网站。
“I didn’t tell my parents when I left the magazine because I didn’t want to worry them,” Mr. Fedak said. “I’d had a college fund, so I didn’t have any loans. But I was still super-nervous. It really was six months of purgatory.”
“我离开杂志社的时候没有跟父母讲，怕他们担心，”费达克说，“我有一笔大学的助学金，所以没有背上任何贷款。但我依然感到极其紧张。那六个月真是炼狱。”
The site is a bare-bones operation, with Mr. Fedak a one-man band handling editorial matters and Mr. George overseeing the business side. When Mr. George signed on, he began to provide both technological and financial support, and expenses continue to be minimal.
这家网站的运营模式极其简单，费达克一肩挑起全部编辑工作，乔治则负责打理运营事务。乔治签约加盟时，就开始提供技术和资金双方面的支持，支出始终少之又少。
Today, the business is turning a profit, thanks to increasing traffic and a growing number of advertisers, not only Douglas Elliman but also Halstead Property Development Marketing and the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat.
如今，网站已开始盈利，一方面是因为流量上升，另一方面是因为广告商越来越多，其中不仅包括道格拉斯·艾丽曼，还包括哈尔斯泰德地产开发营销公司(Halstead Property Development Marketing)，以及高层建筑与城市住宅委员会(Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat)。
But Mr. Fedak’s long workdays are almost entirely consumed with maintaining and expanding the site, with wandering the city snapping pictures, attending Landmarks Preservation Commission hearings and meeting with developers and architects. He trolls the Internet for renderings, and checks in daily with the Buildings Department to see what permits have been issued.
但是，费达克把自己漫长的工作日几乎全花在了这些事情上：维护和扩展网站，在城市的大街小巷拍快照，参加地标建筑保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)的听证会，与开发商和建筑师会面。他在网上搜罗建筑透视图，每天关注楼宇局的动态，看看哪些项目得到了许可。
“My laptop, that’s my office,” said Mr. Fedak, who lives in a $2,300-a-month studio on the 23rd floor of 1 West Street in the financial district, appropriately just steps from the Skyscraper Museum. “And work is my life. There are no borders between work and everything else. Plus my life is so boring. I see friends. But the night-life scene has gotten old for me.”
“我的笔记本电脑，它就是我的办公室，”费达克说。他住在一套租金2300美元（约合人民币14316元）的单间公寓里，这套位于23楼的公寓坐落在金融区的西1街，离摩天大楼博物馆(Skyscraper Museum)大约只有几步之遥。“工作就是我的生活。工作和其它任何事情之间都没有界限。再说，我的生活很无聊。我会去见见朋友，但是夜生活对我来说已经没有吸引力了。”