The apartment checked off every box on the buyers’ wish list: airy, gracious, great views of the park. It was in a terrific building, one of the most prestigious on the Upper East Side. The couple moved in, unpacked and tried without success over the next few months to get settled.
有一套公寓，具备了买家梦寐以求的一切优点：宽敞、气派、可以坐拥绝佳的公园窗景。它所在的大楼也很好，是上东区最有名的楼盘之一。一对夫妇搬了进去，取出行李，在接下来的几个月里试图安定下来，但没有成功。
In the end, they packed up and moved out, said their broker, Barbara Fox, the founder of the Fox Residential Group, because of a pervasive sense that they didn’t belong. It wasn’t that their neighbors were standoffish, ignored them in the elevator or didn’t invite them to their parties — though in fact the whole thing did come down to parties. 
据福克斯住宅集团(Fox Residential Group)的创始人芭芭拉·福克斯(Barbara Fox)说，最终，他们打包好行李搬了出去，因为他们总觉得自己不属于这里。并不是因为邻居们冷淡，在电梯里无视他们，或者不邀请他们来参加自己办的派对——不过事实上，整件事情确实跟派系有关。
“Frankly,” Ms. Fox said, “they just felt the building had too many Republicans.”
“老实说，”福克斯说，“他们只是觉得楼里有太多共和党人了。”
What with high prices and low inventory, it’s difficult enough for renters and buyers in New York City to find an apartment that is both livable and affordable. If, amazingly, it has room to spread out, a few beams of sunlight and even — think of it — a view, they hastily fill out the necessary paperwork or put in a bid, and hope for the best.
由于房价高、存量少，纽约市的租客和购房者们想要找到一套既宜居、又平价的公寓，已经够难的了。如果房子里还有舒展筋骨的地方，可以晒到几束阳光，甚至——想想吧——还可以坐拥景观，那可就太棒了！他们会赶紧填好必要的文件，或者给出报价，然后期待着幸运能够降临到自己头上。
Who lives next door or down the hall? Who cares?
至于住在隔壁或同一栋楼里的是什么人，谁在乎呢？
“I’m here to be around all kinds of people. Being part of the experiment that is New York City means being part of the diversity and texture of the city,” said James M. Gricar, the president of Halstead Property. In any case, he added, “most buyers are space-focused,” not neighbor-focused.
“我之所以来这里，是想跟各种各样的人打交道。来纽约市体验生活，就意味着要感受这个城市的多元化和质感。”哈尔斯特德房地产公司(Halstead Property)的总裁詹姆斯·M·格里卡(James M. Gricar)表示。他还说，无论如何，“大多数买家都关注的是空间，”而非邻居。
But for some people, it isn’t enough that an apartment has the right number of bedrooms, bathrooms and closets, and the eat-in kitchen they have always coveted. They want to be sure that they fit in with the other residents — however they define fitting in. “There are people who want to feel a sense of connection with their building,” said Frances Katzen, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman. “They want to know who’s surrounding them.”
但是，对有些人来说，如果一套公寓只是配备了足够的卧室、浴室和衣橱，以及他们一向垂涎的、带有用餐区的厨房，那仍是不够的；他们还想确保自己跟其他住户合得来——不管他们怎么定义“合得来”。“有些人想体验到对其所住楼盘的归属感，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman)的助理经纪人弗朗西斯·卡岑(Frances Katzen)说，“他们想知道，住在自己周围的人是谁。”
A real estate broker can give prospective buyers the skinny on a building as long as it pertains, say, to the number of doormen on staff, the last time the building’s mortgage was refinanced, or plans to upgrade the equipment in the gym. So it might seem reasonable to think the broker could also tell you who lives in the building. But sorry, for legal reasons that’s a conversational dead end. 
房地产经纪人可以将楼盘的底细透露给潜在买家，只要内容无伤大雅，比如员工当中门卫的人数、该楼盘的抵押贷款上一次重新贷款(refinance)的时间、以及健身房设备的更新计划。但是抱歉，由于法律原因，能说的就只有这些了。
So how do the curious and the concerned get a sense of the resident roll call? There’s the direct approach, like checking with the doorman and buttonholing people who already live in the building. There’s the indirect approach, which involves a bit of research, such as reading the board’s minutes and bylaws.
那么，对于那些心怀好奇或关切的人们，怎样才能对楼内的住户有个大体的了解呢？有的方法比较直接，比如和门卫或喜欢八卦的楼内住户打听。此外，也有间接的办法，这就涉及到一点调查工作了，比方说，去查阅管委会的会议记录和章程等。
As strenuously eager as she was to move from Queens to Manhattan, Shirley McKnight wouldn’t even look at the available studio in an Upper West Side rental until she took the measure of the building.
雪莉·麦克奈特(Shirley McKnight)虽然迫切希望从皇后区搬到曼哈顿，但若没有对楼盘彻底调查一番，她根本不会去上西区，看一栋出租楼里的一套闲置单间公寓。
“I wanted to know what kind of people lived there,” said Ms. McKnight, 64, a dress designer. “I wanted to know if there were a lot of teenagers and if they were a rowdy gang. I wanted a building of decent, hardworking people.
“我想知道楼里住着什么样的人，”现年64岁的服装设计师麦克奈特说，“我想知道那里是不是住了很多青少年，会不会很吵闹。我想跟一些体面、勤劳的人住在一栋楼里。”
“It was my dream to live in Manhattan,” she continued, “but I would not have taken the apartment if I hadn’t liked what the doorman told me.”
“我做梦都想住在曼哈顿，”她接着说，“但如果我对自己从门卫那了解到的情况不满意，是不会住进那套公寓的。”
Prospective renters or buyers who have young children would likely prefer a building with a large stroller brigade. If they’re even less positively disposed toward kids than W. C. Fields, they’d probably want to be certain everyone in residence is, at the very least, over 21. And if their idea of formal wear is black high-tops, they might want to steer clear of a building where residents wear Ferragamo on the treadmill in the workout room.
有年幼孩子的潜在租户或卖家，很可能会希望楼里有很多推着婴儿车的妈妈族；而如果他们甚至比W·C·菲尔兹(W. C. Fields)还要讨厌小孩，就可能会希望楼里的住户至少都在21岁以上了；如果在他们眼里，正式场合穿的鞋子应该是黑色高帮鞋，而某个楼盘的住户会穿菲拉格慕(Ferragamo)在健身房的跑步机上锻炼，那么他们可能就会对这个楼盘敬而远之了。
Such fretting might be reasonable in a brownstone with, say, five or six apartments, said Arlene Kagle, a psychologist with practices in New York and Richmond, Va. “But in a building with multiple apartments there is no way, nor should there be, of having that kind of control,” she said. “You’re not being asked to have dinner or to be someone’s best friend. You’re just sharing an elevator and maybe the laundry room. And if that’s beyond you, buy a house in the suburbs.”
阿琳·卡戈尔(Arlene Kagle)是一名心理医生，在纽约和弗吉尼亚州的里士满(Richmond)执业。她说，如果你要住的是一座里面只有五、六套公寓的褐石建筑，那么操心这种事或许还有道理，“但是如果楼里有很多单元，那你就没法、也不应该那么想要控制局面了，”她说，“你又没被邀请去家里共进晚餐或是成为死党。你只是跟别人共用了一座电梯，可能再加上一间洗衣房而已。如果你不能接受这一点，那就在郊区买一栋别墅吧。” 
In any case, getting a bead on prospective neighbors can be a tricky proposition.
无论如何，刺探未来邻居的情况都可能是件棘手的事情。
Real estate brokers aren’t in a position to be especially enlightening because the Fair Housing Act prohibits their responding to queries like: “Are there a lot of older people in the building?” “I’m worried about noise, so can you tell me if there are a lot of young party-animal types here?” or “We have children. Will they have a lot of playmates if we move in?”
房地产经纪人的立场，决定了他们不能透露太多信息，因为《公平住房法》(Fair Housing Act)禁止他们回答如下问题：“楼里是不是住了许多老人？”“我很怕吵，你能不能告诉我，这里是不是有很多喜欢开派对的年轻人？”或“我们家有小孩。要是搬进来，他们能不能找到很多玩伴呢？”
Similarly out of bounds are questions related to sexual orientation, marital status, race, creed and nationality. But apparently, the haughty aren’t a protected class. “You certainly can’t steer people away from a building, but you can tell a client something like, ‘I don’t think you’d be very comfortable here because it’s a very snooty building and the people aren’t very friendly,’ ” said a broker who requested anonymity for fear of running afoul of her boss.
类似的越界问题，还涉及到性取向、婚姻状况、信仰和国籍。但显然，这些挑剔的买家自己并不属于受保护阶层。“你总不能把大楼里已有的住户撵走吧？不过你可以对客户这么说，‘我觉得你住进来可能会不太习惯，因为这个楼盘很排外，里面的住户不怎么友好’。”一名经纪人说，因为担心得罪老板，她要求匿名。
“I think people have a right to know who’s living next door to them,” said Leonard Steinberg, the president of the real estate firm Urban Compass. “But I also think people get carried away with a country-club mentality.”
“我认为人们有权知道他们隔壁住着什么人，”房地产公司Urban Compass的总裁莱昂纳德·斯坦伯格(Leonard Steinberg)说，“但我也觉得，他们被一种乡村俱乐部式的思维带偏了。”
He said he has had clients who wanted to live only around Republicans or Democrats. “And I’m like, ‘Really? Let’s think about that. How exactly does that impact your world?’ 
他说自己有一些客户，只想跟共和党人或民主党人做邻居。“然后我的反应就是，‘真的吗？想想这个问题吧。这种事对你的生活有影响吗？’”
“If someone is a Republican, does that mean he’s going to be a bad neighbor or a different neighbor than a Democrat? It’s just astounding to me how many of them seem to be saying, ‘I’m open to anyone, as long as they’re just like me.’ ”
“就算你的邻居是共和党人，那他就一定是个坏邻居，或者会跟民主党邻居不一样吗？我就奇怪了，为何有那么多人表现出来的态度就像是，‘我对谁都能接受，只要他们和我一样。’”
Stuart Moss, an associate broker at Corcoran, urges clients to make their own observations, and added that he “might say that a particular building is ‘more casual’ than another one or ‘more formal.’ ”
柯克兰集团(Corcoran)的助理经纪人斯图尔特·莫斯(Stuart Moss)主张客户自己去观察，他还说，自己“可能会说，某栋楼比另一楼盘的氛围‘更随意’，或者‘更正式’。”
That’s just the sort of guidance that would have been useful to a couple who bought a Park Avenue apartment with the intention of doing a total renovation, but wound up moving out of the building.
这样的提示，对于下文将提到的一对夫妇可能会非常受用。这对夫妇在公园大道(Park Avenue)买下一套公寓，本打算彻底翻修一下，但结果却从楼里搬了出去。
Ms. Katzen, who represented the couple in the transaction, said they told her that they hadn’t appreciated how stiff the building was. “They complained that they were more relaxed than everyone else in the building,” she said. “They felt they were on duty all the time and found the whole thing a turnoff.” The husband summed it up, Ms. Katzen recalls, as “This place feels uptight.” They left the East Side and bought a prewar condo on the West Side that Ms. Katzen described as “much more liberal.”
在这笔交易中，（道格拉斯·艾丽曼的）卡岑是这对夫妇的经纪人。她说他们告诉她，自己没想到那栋楼里的气氛那么呆板。“他们抱怨说，楼里没有任何住户像他们这样放松，”她说，“他们感觉其他人好像成天都在工作似的，这样的氛围令他们很扫兴。”据卡岑回忆，那对夫妇中的男方总结说，“这个地方感觉让人透不过气来。”他们离开了东区，在西区买了一套战前的共管公寓，用卡岑的话说，那里“自由多了”。
Eight years ago, when Steven D. Sladkus, a real estate lawyer, and his wife, the parents of two, found an apartment they liked on the Upper East Side, they wanted to make sure the building was family friendly. Their broker, of course, couldn’t say. Mr. Sladkus persevered.
八年前，房地产律师史蒂文·D·斯拉德克斯(Steven D Sladkus)及妻子带着两个孩子，在上东区找到了一套心仪的房子，他们想知道这个楼盘是否欢迎家庭住户。当然，他们的经纪人对此三缄其口。而斯拉德克斯执意将这个问题探究到底。
“I didn’t want to be in a building where the other shareholders would be upset that my daughter was eating a Ziploc bag of goldfish crackers in the lobby, so I went online and searched out the address on ‘AnyWho,’ ” he said, referring to the Internet directory. “I got a couple of random phone numbers of people who lived in the building and I called them.”
“我可不希望我女儿在大堂里拎着一个密保诺(Ziploc)保鲜袋吃金鱼饼干时，会有其他公寓股东看她不爽。所以我上网在AnyWho上搜了一下这个地址，”他说的AnyWho是一个导航网站，“我随机找到几个住户的电话号码，给他们打了过去。”
What they told Mr. Sladkus about the building was reassuring: There were lots of children, Halloween was celebrated in the lobby like a national holiday and the doormen were as child-friendly as Big Bird. Mr. Sladkus and his wife proceeded with the purchase.
斯拉德克斯从他们那里了解到的情况颇令人宽慰：楼里有很多孩子，每到万圣节，住户们就会像过国庆一样在大堂里庆祝。而门卫们对小孩子就像BigBird（卡通人物——译注）一样亲切。于是斯拉德克斯和妻子买下了这栋楼里的房子。
“I don’t think the people I spoke to thought I was weird,” Mr. Sladkus said. “They were maybe surprised, but pleasantly so.”
“我觉得，接我电话的人应该不会觉得我很古怪，”斯拉德克斯说，“他们可能会觉得意外，不过是愉快的那种意外。”
Of course, one doesn’t always want to depend on the kindness of strangers. You could channel your inner Sherlock Holmes and use your deductive powers. Scoping out a building’s amenities is an option. If there’s a playroom, it’s a safe bet that this is family-friendly terrain. A party room with a pool table suggests a building geared, at least in part, to a young single population.
当然了，一个人也并不总想仰仗陌生人的善意。你可以唤醒自己内心的福尔摩斯，动用你的推理技巧。观察一处楼盘里的设施，是个可行的方法。如果楼内有一间游乐室，那么这里肯定是欢迎家庭住户的；而如果有间摆着台球桌的派对屋，那就说明这栋楼至少是部分面向年轻单身族的。
“But you can get a lot of mixed messages with amenities,” cautioned Mr. Steinberg of Urban Compass. “People think if there’s a swimming pool there must be a lot of young people in the building. Wrong. A lot of old people have found that swimming is the one thing they can do without adversely impacting their body.”
“但是，你从设施当中也会读出很多混杂的信息，”Urban Compass的斯坦伯格提醒道，“一般人认为，如果楼盘里建了游泳池，就说明里面肯定住了许多年轻人。错！很多老人都发现游泳是一种让身体无甚负担的锻炼方式。”
Frances Katzen said she’s had clients who have looked — hopefully — for religious symbols like mezuzas affixed to doorways and surveyed the last names on mailboxes.
弗朗西斯·卡岑说，她有一些客户会满怀希望地寻找像门柱圣卷（mezuzas，一面是《圣经》文字、一面是神祇名字的小羊皮纸卷，挂于门柱以示犹太家庭之信仰——译注）一类的宗教象征，并且调查信箱上的家族姓氏。
They might have done better to check out the lobby. White-gloved elevator attendants? Mr. Moss of Corcoran suggests that might be a feature of a building with mature empty nesters interested in a high level of security. Meanwhile, if a building’s “doorman looks you up and down and stares disapprovingly at what you’re wearing, you can draw some conclusions,” Mr. Steinberg said. “It doesn’t necessarily mean everyone in the building is like that. Chances are, no. But if everyone in the building hated that behavior, chances are that guy wouldn’t have survived.”
他们要是进入大堂看看，或许会有更多发现。电梯里有没有戴着白手套的操作员？柯克兰集团的莫斯说，如果有戴白手套的电梯操作员，就说明楼里可能住着格外重视安保的空巢家庭。与此同时，如果大楼的“门卫上下打量你，不以为然地盯着你的衣着，那你就可以得出一些结论了，”斯坦伯格说，“倒不一定说明楼里每个人都是那样，很可能并不是；但如果楼里每个人都讨厌那种行为，那么这个人很可能是待不下去的。”
Kathy Braddock, a managing director of William Raveis New York City, counsels clients to do a stakeout of sorts. “You can tell a lot by watching a building at different times of the day,” she said. Prospective buyers who turn up before 8 a.m. will see who, if anyone, is leaving for school.
房地产公司William Raveis纽约分部的总经理凯西·布拉多克(Kathy Braddock)建议客户实地蹲点。“如果你在一天的不同时间去看一处楼盘，就会看出许多东西。”她说。潜在买家如果早八点之前去看看，就能发现有没有人早上出门去上学。
But there’s plenty of other information to be gleaned. “You can see if residents are demanding, if they’re rude to the doormen,” Ms. Braddock said. “Are there a lot of dog walkers? It’s a story that unfolds. You have to go morning, afternoon and night, then put the pieces together.”
不过，还能收集到许多其他方面的情报。“你可以看看住户是否挑剔，他们对门卫是否粗鲁，”布拉多克说，“遛狗的人多不多？这样你掌握的情况就会越来越丰富。你必须早、中、晚都过去看看，然后把信息拼凑起来。”
But even with due diligence you can put the pieces together in the wrong way. As a teenager, Babita Patel had a goal: to own an apartment in New York City. At 14 she began saving. Soon after she enrolled at the School of Visual Arts near Gramercy Park, she noticed a building not far from her dorm. “It was beautiful and grand,” Ms. Patel said. “I had my eye on it for a long time, so I saw the kinds of people who were coming in and going out. I felt I knew what I’d be getting into.”
但即便是做尽职调查，也有可能拼凑出错误的信息。芭比塔·帕特尔(Babita Patel)十几岁时就定下一个目标：要在纽约市买一套公寓。她从14岁时开始攒钱。后来，在进入格莱美西公园(Gramercy Park)附近的视觉艺术学院(School of Visual Arts)不久，她就注意到了宿舍不远处的一栋大楼。“它很漂亮，也很气派，”帕特尔说，“我关注了它很长一段时间，所以看到了进出大楼的都是些什么人。我觉得自己已经知道要搬进一个什么地方了。”
Ten years ago, she bought an alcove studio there, “and it was really exciting,” said Ms. Patel, now 35, a photographer and the executive director of a nonprofit.
十年前，她在那里买下一套L形单间公寓，“当时我真的很兴奋。”帕特尔说。她现年35岁，是一名摄影师，同时在一家非营利组织做执行总裁。 
Once ensconced in the 300-unit building, she was eager to have a role in its governance. But she quickly learned that the co-op board was composed of people who had lived in the building for years and who had no interest in the opinions of new shareholders. “I went to a meeting to vote on something,” she said. “And it was an awful experience: Fifty adults in a shouting match. I left the meeting and realized I wanted to leave the building.”
她在这栋包含300套单元的大楼里安顿下来后，立刻开始热心参与它的管理。但是她很快就发现，合作公寓管委会里的人都是些在此居住多年的老居民，他们没有兴趣倾听新股东的想法。“我去开一个会，为某项事宜投票，”她说，“结果那次经历很不愉快：50个成年人都在比谁喊得更大声。离开会场之后，我意识到自己想搬走了。”
Two years ago, Ms. Patel sold her studio and bought a one-bedroom in a seven-year-old condop. “I wanted a new building,” she said, “because I figured that way everyone would be a relative newcomer. There wouldn’t be an entrenched old guard, and there would be more a sense of inclusiveness.”
两年前，帕特尔卖掉她的单间公寓，在一栋建了7年的共管-合作公寓楼(condop)里买下一套一居室。“我想住新一点的楼，”她说，“因为我估计这样一来，每个人搬进来的时间都相对不长，不会形成根深蒂固的保守势力，包容性也会更强一些。”
It also helped that she was able to meet the seller of the apartment she was buying. “She gave me a rundown on everyone on the floor and they seemed at the same life stage as me,” Ms. Patel said.
此外，她还可以跟公寓卖家面对面地打交道，这也给她带来了帮助。“她给我讲了一下同楼层里每个人的情况，他们似乎都和我处在同一个人生阶段。”帕特尔说。
Often, a bit of background reading is useful for getting a sense of a building’s demographic. According to several brokers, the phrase “summer work rules” in a proprietary lease suggests a starchy population. In a building that requires all cash, “you’re only going to have people who inherited it or people who are pretty far along in their careers,” said Philip Lang, a founder of Suitey, a real estate brokerage.
往往，对楼盘背景稍作了解，也有助于大致把握整栋楼的人员构成。好几名经纪人都表示，如果租约里有“暑期工作规则”，就说明楼里的住户比较刻板。如果某个楼盘要求购房者以现金全款买房，“那么你的邻居只可能是房产继承人，要不然就是已经在职场打拼多年的人。”房地产经纪公司Suitey的创始人菲利普·朗(Philip Lang)说。
Steven R. Wagner, a real estate lawyer at Porzio, Bromberg & Newman, encourages would-be buyers to check sites like eLaw to see if the building has instigated a lawsuit against a shareholder, or a shareholder against the building, and to find out the nature of the disagreement.
律师事务所Porzio, Bromberg & Newman的房地产律师史蒂文·R·瓦格纳(Steven R. Wagner)鼓励潜在买家，在eLaw这类站点查询一下，看看目标楼盘有没有状告股东或被股东状告的情况，然后搞清楚这些纠纷的实质。