This just in: Saving the planet would be cheap; it might even be free. But will anyone believe the good news?
最新消息：拯救地球的成本会相当低廉；甚至可能是零成本。但有人会相信这个好消息吗？
I’ve just been reading two new reports on the economics of fighting climate change: a big study by a blue-ribbon international group, the New Climate Economy Project, and a working paper from the International Monetary Fund. Both claim that strong measures to limit carbon emissions would have hardly any negative effect on economic growth, and might actually lead to faster growth. This may sound too good to be true, but it isn’t. These are serious, careful analyses.
我刚刚看到两份新的有关应对气候变化的经济学报告：一份是由一家顶尖国际组织进行的大型研究“新气候经济项目”(New Climate Economy Project)发布的报告，另一份则是来自国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的工作文件。两份报告均宣称，采取强有力的举措来限制碳排放，对经济增长几乎没有负面影响，而且实际上还可能促进经济更快速地增长。这或许听起来美妙得令人难以置信，但的确就是事实。它们都经过了严肃而细致的分析。
But you know that such assessments will be met with claims that it’s impossible to break the link between economic growth and ever-rising emissions of greenhouse gases, a position I think of as “climate despair.” The most dangerous proponents of climate despair are on the anti-environmentalist right. But they receive aid and comfort from other groups, including some on the left, who have their own reasons for getting it wrong.
不过大家知道，此类结论将会遇到怎样的论调：经济增长与日益攀升的温室气体排放之间的正相关不可能被打破。我觉得这种观点属于“气候绝望论”。它最危险的支持者来自反环保的右翼，但也从其他团体那里获得了援助与慰藉，比如一些左翼人士。后者出错自有另一套原因。
Where is the new optimism about climate change and growth coming from? It has long been clear that a well-thought-out strategy of emissions control, in particular one that puts a price on carbon via either an emissions tax or a cap-and-trade scheme, would cost much less than the usual suspects want you to think. But the economics of climate protection look even better now than they did a few years ago.
报告中的这种关于气候变化与经济增长的新乐观主义来自哪里？我们早就知道，考虑周全的排放控制策略，特别是征收碳税或实施排放限额交易计划等给碳定价的策略，其成本将远低于某些人想让大家相信的水平。差别在于，气候保护的经济学前景现在看来要比几年前的设想还要光明。
On one side, there has been dramatic progress in renewable energy technology, with the costs of solar power, in particular, plunging, down by half just since 2010. Renewables have their limitations — basically, the sun doesn’t always shine, and the wind doesn’t always blow — but if you think that an economy getting a lot of its power from wind farms and solar panels is a hippie fantasy, you’re the one out of touch with reality.
一方面，可再生能源技术有了显著提升，特别是太阳能发电的成本大幅下降，2010年以来就已经削减了50%。可再生能源自身存在局限性——基本上，太阳不会总是照耀，风也不是常刮——但如果认为一个经济体靠风电场和太阳能板获取大量电能属于嬉皮士式的幻想，那你就与现实脱节了。
On the other side, it turns out that putting a price on carbon would have large “co-benefits” — positive effects over and above the reduction in climate risks — and that these benefits would come fairly quickly. The most important of these co-benefits, according to the I.M.F. paper, would involve public health: burning coal causes many respiratory ailments, which drive up medical costs and reduce productivity.
另一方面，事实证明，给碳排放定价会带来很多“协同效益”——不仅包括降低气候风险，还有其他诸多积极影响——而这些效益很快便会显现。国际货币基金组织的文件显示，最重要的协同效益涉及公共卫生领域：燃煤会引起多种呼吸系统疾病，进而推高医疗成本，降低生产率。
And thanks to these co-benefits, the paper argues, one argument often made against carbon pricing — that it’s not worth doing unless we can get a global agreement — is wrong. Even without an international agreement, there are ample reasons to take action against the climate threat.
该文件认为，这些协同效益说明，那种常用于反对为碳排放定价的论调——达成国际协定前不值得采取行动——是错误的。即便没有达成国际条约，也有充分的理由采取应对气候威胁的行动。
But back to the main point: It’s easier to slash emissions than seemed possible even a few years ago, and reduced emissions would produce large benefits in the short-to-medium run. So saving the planet would be cheap and maybe even come free.
不过，让我们回到主题上：如今，大幅削减排放比几年前的最佳设想还要容易，而减排举措在中短期内就会带来大量好处。因此，拯救地球的成本会非常低廉，甚至可能是零成本。
Enter the prophets of climate despair, who wave away all this analysis and declare that the only way to limit carbon emissions is to bring an end to economic growth.
主张气候绝望论的预言家们登场了。他们拒绝接受这方面的种种分析，兀自宣称限制碳排放的唯一途径就是终止经济增长。
You mostly hear this from people on the right, who normally say that free-market economies are endlessly flexible and creative. But when you propose putting a price on carbon, suddenly they insist that industry will be completely incapable of adapting to changed incentives. Why, it’s almost as if they’re looking for excuses to avoid confronting climate change, and, in particular, to avoid anything that hurts fossil-fuel interests, no matter how beneficial to everyone else.
大多数时候，这种话出自右翼人士之口。他们通常会说自由市场经济有着无穷无尽的变通和创意。但是，当你提议给碳排放定价，突然之间他们就坚决认为业界完全无法适应改革后的激励政策。为什么，看上去他们几乎就是在找借口避开气候变化问题？尤其是要避开任何会伤害石油利益的东西，不管这对其他所有人有怎样的益处。
But climate despair produces some odd bedfellows: Koch-fueled insistence that emission limits would kill economic growth is echoed by some who see this as an argument not against climate action, but against growth. You can find this attitude in the mostly European “degrowth” movement, or in American groups like the Post Carbon Institute; I’ve encountered claims that saving the planet requires an end to growth at left-leaning meetings on “rethinking economics.” To be fair, anti-growth environmentalism is a marginal position even on the left, but it’s widespread enough to call out nonetheless.
不过，气候绝望论造就了一种奇特的组合：在科氏兄弟运作下，一些人坚称排放限制会扼杀经济增长，与那些认为这是在反增长而不是反气候行动的人不谋而合。你可以在以欧洲人为主的“去增长”运动或后碳研究院(Post Carbon Institute)等美国团体中看到后一种态度；我在“重新思考经济”的亲左会议上也见识过拯救地球需要终止经济增长的说法。公平地讲，反增长环保主义即便在左翼阵营里都是比较边缘的，但是影响力也已经大到引人注目了。