Does it mean something that James Bond drinks a dirty martini in “Spectre,” the latest in the seemingly unkillable franchise? It’s too soon to know, though true Bondologists will be parsing this new drink’s significance shortly. As more of an amateur in all-things Bond, I had hoped a dirty bomb would go boom or that the actress Léa Seydoux would do something unspeakable to Daniel Craig, given that the pre-credit sequence features female nudes writhing alongside an octopus with busy arms. Part of the bankable pleasure of the series, after all, is that every so often, among the usual guns and girls, the unexpected happens — a bikini stops the film, a villain revs it up, Bond surprises.
在长盛不衰的007系列最新一部《幽灵党》(Spectre)里，詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)喝了一口浑浊马天尼，这有什么涵义吗？答案眼下还不得而知，不过真正的邦德死忠肯定会在短时间内分析出这种新饮品的重要意义。作为邦德百科大全的业余爱好者，我本来希望一颗脏弹会爆炸，或者女演员蕾娅·塞杜(Léa Seydoux)能对丹尼尔·克雷格(Daniel Craig)干点什么说不出口的事情，毕竟片头中有裸女和八爪鱼触手纠缠的画面。况且007系列最叫座的魅力就在于，寻常的枪战美女之间，经常夹杂着意想不到的事件——一个比基尼美女令情节停止发展，一个恶棍又加速影片的节奏，邦德不断带来惊喜。
There’s nothing surprising in “Spectre,” the 24th “official” title in the series, which is presumably as planned. Much as the perfect is the enemy of good, originality is often the enemy of the global box office. And so, for the fourth time, Mr. Craig has suited up to play the British spy who’s saving the world one kill at a time, with Sam Mendes occupying the director’s chair for a second turn. They’re a reasonable fit, although their joint seriousness has started to feel more reflexive than honest, especially because every Bond movie inevitably shakes off ambition to get down to the blockbuster business of hurling everything — bodies, bullets, fireballs, debris, money — at the screen.
《幽灵党》是007系列的第24部“官方”影片，片中没有什么让人吃惊的东西，可能本来的计划就是如此。正如“完美”是“优秀”的敌人，“原创性”通常也是全球票房的敌人。本片是克雷格第四次饰演这个每部影片都要开一回杀戒，以此拯救世界的英国间谍，此外也是萨姆·门德斯(Sam Mendes)第二次执导这个系列。他们很般配，尽管他们共同的严肃感显得有点像是出于条件反射，而不是出于诚实，特别是因为每部007影片都不可避免地要摆脱雄心壮志，最终回归票房大片的路数，把身体、子弹、爆炸、碎片和金钱统统堆在银幕上。
Before that happens here, there’s the usual narrative busywork that plays as if it were written by committee, which it was (John Logan, Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Jez Butterworth). If you have watched one Bond movie, you know the score. The band — M (Ralph Fiennes), Moneypenny (Naomie Harris) and Q (Ben Whishaw) — gets back together, with Bond singing lead. There’s an opening lollapalooza blowout that Mr. Mendes largely delivers in one long silky take, having clearly studied trends in contemporary art cinema. Mr. Craig and the camera move together beautifully in this sequence, whether Bond’s sauntering across a roof (and in what has become a signature, adjusting a shirt cuff) or riding down a collapsing building as easily as you would a slide at a water park.
在此之前，照例还有叙事的功课要完成，它们好像是由一个委员会写成的，事实也的确如此（委员会成员包括约翰·洛根[John Logan]、尼尔·珀维斯[Neal Purvis]、罗伯特·韦德[Robert Wade]和杰斯·巴特沃斯[Jez Butterworth]）。如果你看过一部邦德影片，你就知道套路。这个乐队——M（拉尔夫·费因斯[Ralph Fiennes]饰）、钱班霓（娜奥米·哈莉斯[Naomi Harries]饰）和Q（本·威肖[Ben Whishaw]饰）重新聚集在一起，邦德当主唱。影片开头景象精彩，门德斯以流畅的长镜头一气呵成，肯定是研究了当代艺术电影的趋势。在这个镜头里，克里格和摄像机镜头一起移动，非常漂亮，邦德时而在屋顶上漫步（一边还要整理袖口，这成了他的标志），时而轻松地滑下一栋废弃的建筑，就像在水上公园坐滑梯那么轻松。
There’s more, of course, including car chases, nominally exotic locales and a pulpy, visceral slugfest on a passenger train with a Bluto-size hurting machine (Dave Bautista) who’s evocative of that old Bond enemy Jaws. The train, as well as the purr of an Aston Martin, suggests that the filmmakers are working the nostalgia angle, though, the series has always been driven by longing for other men and worlds, for the British Empire, for a hyper-masculine savior, for sex kittens (friends or foes) and for a reassuring vision of the world in which the greatest threat is an orderly criminal organization run by a single supervillain. The superbaddie in “Spectre” is, alas, a bore, enlivened only by our series sentimentality and Christoph Waltz working his accented villainy with a smile.
当然还有更多可看的，比如追汽车、所谓的异国风光，以及客运火车上一场血浆四溅、拳拳到肉的斗殴，其中戴夫·巴蒂斯塔(Dave Bautista)饰演一个大块头的战斗机器，让人联想起邦德的老对手“大钢牙”(Jaws)。这辆火车外加一辆阿斯顿·马丁的引擎响声，让人明白影片的制作者们想走怀旧路线，不过，这个系列的动力其实一直都是人们对与众不同的男人，以及与众不同的世界的渴望；他们怀念大英帝国、怀念肌肉发达的大救星、怀念性感女郎（不管是朋友还是敌人），以及一个让人安心的世界，其中最大的威胁无非就是由一个超级恶棍运行的有序的犯罪团伙。而在《幽灵党》中，哎呀，这个超级大坏蛋真是个无聊的家伙，只靠着我们对这个系列的怀旧之情，以及克里斯托弗·沃尔兹(Christoph Waltz)面带微笑，口音分明的恶棍形象，才有了那么一丝生动。
Back in 2006, Mr. Craig slipped into “Casino Royale” and the role of James Bond like a middleweight’s fist in a boxing glove, bringing to the gig a battered beauty one punch away from ugly, a powerful chest that looks good in a tux and a visceral predatory quality that works equally well for annihilating villains and ladies. Mr. Craig was the right Bond for a moment still haunted by Sept. 11: He looked roughed up, possibly cruel and ready to fight. That Mr. Craig could also deliver layered emotional intensity and unexpected expressive delicacy was a nice bonus for a series that sprang back with deadly solemnity and scarcely a trace of the playfulness, much less the campy joie de vivre, that’s mostly associated with the Roger Moore era. “I miss Roger Moore,” a friend recently sighed.
2006年，克里格开始在《007：大战皇家赌场》(Casino Royale)中出演詹姆斯·邦德，把他塑造成一个重量级拳手般的形象，为影片带来一种陈旧之美，和肌肉发达的丑陋胸膛仅有一线之隔，穿着礼服非常好看，有种从内而外的掠食者气质，既可以干掉恶棍，也能迷死女人们。在那个9·11事件仍旧阴魂不散的年代，克里格是最合适的邦德，他看上去很粗犷，可能有些残酷，随时准备打斗。而且克里格也能够表达有层次的激情，以及出人意料的细腻情感。对于这个日渐回归沉闷庄重，缺乏戏谑感，更别提什么生活情趣的系列来说，克里格堪称是意外赠送的惊喜。实际上这些沉闷色彩是和罗杰·摩尔(Roger Moore)的时代分不开的。“我怀念罗杰·摩尔，”最近有个朋友叹息道。
I don’t, with sincere apologies to Sir Roger. I like Mr. Craig’s Bond a lot, but I am also still pining for Sean Connery, the production designer Ken Adam and women whose names (performer and character alike) you remember, like Honor Blackman and Pussy Galore. Bond’s creator, Ian Fleming, once said that he wanted 007 to be, as he put it, “an extremely dull, uninteresting man to whom things happened.” (Fleming borrowed the name from an ornithologist.) He also wanted Bond to be a “blunt instrument.” The spy proved as blunt as an anvil on Wile E. Coyote’s head, but the casting of Mr. Connery obliterated any notion that Bond could be wholly dull. The Bond movies needed sex to sell their violence, especially to a wide audience, and Mr. Connery was the ideal salesman.
对不起了罗杰先生，我可一点也不怀念他。我很喜欢克里格的邦德，但我也依然怀念肖恩·康纳利(Sean Connery)、场景设计师肯·亚当( Ken Adam )和那些能记住名字的女人们（包括演员和角色），比如霍纳尔·布莱克曼( Honor Blackman)和普西·格洛尔(Pussy Galore)。邦德的缔造者伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)曾经说过，他希望007是个“非常乏味无趣的人，但事情总是发生在他身上”（弗莱明用一个鸟类学家的名字来给007命名）。他还希望邦德成为一种“直接的工具”。这个间谍确实直接，简直就像砸在“大笨狼怀尔”(Wile E. Coyote)头上的铁砧一样，但康纳利却磨掉了邦德身上所有的乏味成分。007电影必须性感，才能推销它的暴力，特别是面向更广大的观众群体，康纳利的确是理想的推销员。
Mr. Craig delivers the blows — the crushing uppercuts and sucker punches — more persuasively than the chaste kisses, although given the anemic seductresses Bond is often now paired with, the actor can scarcely take the blame. A few sashay through “Spectre,” most agreeably Monica Bellucci, cinema’s current go-to Italian bombshell. She shows up in widow’s weeds, which Bond promptly removes while she babbles intel about her dead husband. The husband is a nail that leads to the shoe, the horse, the rider and finally the kingdom, little of which has anything to do with the world as it exists, with its environmental disasters and political uncertainties, religious wars and ordinary terrors. But then it’s hard to imagine Bond taking on, say, the Islamic State.
克里格的打斗（要命的上勾拳和颇具欺骗性的直击）比他纯真的亲吻更有说服力，不过现在配给他的邦女郎都有点没精打采，所以不应该怪他。《幽灵党》里有几个过场，来自讨人喜欢的莫妮卡·贝鲁奇(Monica Bellucci)，电影界目前抢手的意大利性感少妇。她穿着寡妇的黑丧服登场，不过当她讲述亡夫的情报时，邦德很快就把那件丧服去掉了。俗话说，“丢了一个钉子，失了一个王国”，这位丈夫就是那个导致其后一系列灾难的开端，这个故事和这个世界的环境灾难、政治动荡、宗教战争和日常生活中的恐怖没有什么关系，不过也很难想象邦德会去管伊斯兰国的事情。
In 1966, Kingsley Amis attributed the success of the Bond stories partly to what he called the “Fleming effect,” noting how Bond’s fantastic world, “as well as the temporary, local, fantastic elements,” are “ ‘bolted down’ to some sort of reality.” The Bond movies have always managed to tap into reality by switching on a camera, a connection to the material world that lingered no matter how far out the villains, their wild lairs and intrigues. The current Bond team is trying to keep the audience entertained with new tricks and gizmos while keeping it kind of real, which perhaps explains why this Bond sweats buckets, tears up and even bares his feelings. Mr. Craig is very good at selling Bond’s humanity, though in truth, what has always really turned us on isn’t 007’s humanity but the reverse.
1966年，金斯利·艾米斯(Kingsley Amis)说邦德小说的成功部分是由于他所谓的“弗莱明效应”，邦德所在的那个精彩纷呈的世界，“以及那些当下、当地、奇妙的元素”，“与某些现实是密切相连的”。邦德电影也一直试图利用现实，它打开镜头，拍摄一个萦绕不去的物质世界，不管其中的恶棍、他们疯狂的老巢和阴谋有多么怪异。目前的邦德团队试图用新的把戏和小发明来娱乐观众，与此同时又让它保持真实，这或许可以解释为什么这个邦德总是汗流浃背，流下眼泪，甚至不吝于袒露自己的情感。克里格非常擅长拿邦德的人性当卖点，尽管事实上，一直以来打动我们的并不是007的人性，恰恰是他的非人性。
“Spectre” is rated PG-13. (Parents strongly cautioned.) Kiss, kiss, kablooey. Running time: 2 hours 28 minutes.
《幽灵党》被标记为PG13级（强烈建议家长陪同观看）。接吻，接吻，大爆炸。时长：2小时28分钟。