For years, Americans have told Gallup pollsters that China was the world’s pre-eminent economy. They were mistaken. The United States has held that spot for more than a century. A new report suggests they may soon be mistaken no more.
多年来，美国民众一直告诉盖洛普(Gallup)的调查员，中国是世界上最大的经济体。他们说得不对，因为一个多世纪以来，这个位置一直属于美国。然而，一份新报告显示，他们的说法很快就会变成对的。
New data released on Wednesday by the International Comparison Program, a World Bank body, appeared to suggest that, by one measure, China is on track to overtake the United States this year as the world’s biggest economy, years sooner than many economists had previously forecast.
从属于世界银行(World Bank)的国际比较项目（International Comparison Program，简称ICP）周三发布的新数据似乎表明，以某个标准衡量，中国将在今年赶超美国，成为世界最大的经济体，时间比许多经济学家的预期提前了几年。
The group compiles gross domestic product figures from 199 world economies and then attempts to estimate their size on the basis of purchasing power parity, or P.P.P., a measure that seeks to determine the comparative size of an economy after adjusting for price differentials and the local buying power of a currency. Generally, prices are lower in developing countries, so a dollar there can buy more goods and services than in expensive developed countries such as the United States, Japan and Germany.
该组织对世界199个经济体的国内生产总值(GDP)进行了统计，之后又尝试根据购买力平价（purchasing power parity，简称PPP）来估算它们的经济规模。作为一种衡量标准，PPP要求根据物价差异及某种货币的当地购买力进行调整，然后再确定某个经济体的相对规模。一般而言，发展中国家物价较低，这样一来，与美国、日本和德国等物价高昂的发达国家相比，1美元在发展中国家能买到更多的商品和服务。
By this measure, China’s economy stood at $13.5 trillion as of 2011 — the base year for the data in the new I.C.P. report. That is nearly 90 percent the size of the United States economy, which was estimated at $15.5 trillion on a P.P.P. basis. The 104-page summary report also showed that by 2011, India had overtaken Japan as the world’s third-biggest economy, with a G.D.P. of $5.8 trillion in purchasing-power terms. Given that China’s economy has grown much faster than that of the United States since 2011, it should eclipse the United States this year, according to an extrapolation of those figures based on growth projections from the International Monetary Fund.
根据这个标准，中国2011年的经济总量在13.5万亿美元（约合84.5万亿元人民币）左右。2011年是这份ICP新报告所用数据的基准年。这个规模相当于美国经济的将近90%；以PPP衡量，美国同年的经济总额为15.5万亿美元。这份长达104页的总结报告还表明，到2011年，印度已经超过日本成为世界第三大经济体，以购买力衡量的GDP达到了5.8万亿美元。根据以国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）增长预测数据为基础的推算结果，由于中国自2011年来的经济增长速度远远超过美国，中国的经济规模应该能在今年超过美国。
The new figures mark a significant downward revision in previous estimates of the prices of goods and services in many developing countries, pushing down their cost of living. The result is that their economies, when adjusted for purchasing power, appear to be much larger than those derived from the previous baseline in 2005. That study, released in 2007, went in the opposite direction, revising prices in countries like China and India upward and lowering their estimated G.D.P. levels.
新出炉的数据大幅下调了之前对许多发展中国家的商品和服务价格所做的估计，压低了这些国家的生活成本。结果是，根据购买力因素进行调整之后，这些国家的经济规模似乎比以2005年为基准线得出的那些结果大得多。2007年发布的那项研究采用了截然相反的评价方法，上调了中国和印度等国的商品和服务价格，由此压低了它们的GDP估计数字。
Those dramatic swings from one survey to the next are one reason Louis Kuijs, the chief China economist for the Royal Bank of Scotland, who for years worked for the World Bank in Beijing, finds himself using the P.P.P. measure less often, instead using exchange rates to compare the size of economies.
部分是由于历次研究结果之间的巨大差异，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)首席中国经济师高路易(Louis Kuijs)不常使用PPP来比较经济规模，转而使用汇率。高路易曾在北京为世界银行工作多年。
“Having observed these huge changes in estimates, I’ve become a bit wary of these estimates,” Mr. Kuijs said in a telephone interview. “The market can be wrong but at least it’s a pretty objective measurement, and nobody can quibble about whether it was that number or whether it was 10 percent higher.”
“看到估计数据的这类巨大变化之后，我对这些估计的态度就比较谨慎了，”高路易在接受电话采访时说，“市场可能会出错，但它至少是个相当客观的工具，没人能争辩它给出的数字对不对，是不是高了10%。”
By the exchange rate measure, China has an economy barely half the size of the United States economy. The G.D.P. of the United States — in nominal terms, meaning not adjusted for inflation — was $16.2 trillion in 2012, nearly twice as much as China’s $8.2 trillion, based on data from the I.M.F. Even with China’s higher growth rate, barring a collapse in the value of the United States dollar against the renminbi, China won’t overtake the United States until well into the next decade.
以汇率为标准，中国的经济规模还不到美国的一半。IMF的数据显示，美国2012年的GDP——按名义价值计算，也就是说不考虑通货膨胀——为16.2万亿美元，几乎是中国8.2万亿美元的两倍。尽管中国的增长速度更快，但中国仍然不会下一个十年后半期之前赶超美国，除非美元对人民币大幅贬值。
And because China’s population is more than four times that of the United States, per capita incomes in the United States are more than four times as high as in China, even under the P.P.P. comparison. Using exchange rates, United States per capita incomes are more than seven times as high, Mr. Kuijs estimates.
由于中国人口是美国人口的四倍多，美国的人均收入就是中国的四倍还多，即便按PPP衡量也是如此。据高路易估计，以汇率来衡量的话，美国的人均收入是中国的七倍多。
Using the exchange rate comparison is a better way for economists and executives to calculate the size of markets and the economic power of a country, Mr. Kuijs said. It does little good, for example, to estimate sales of iPhones in Pakistan based on the country’s P.P.P.-adjusted exchange rates and G.D.P., because customers will still have to buy the phones at market prices using market exchange rates.
高路易表示，对于经济学家和行业高管来说，汇率对比是计算市场规模和一个国家经济实力的更好方式。例如，你无法借助经PPP调整的汇率及GDP来估算iPhone在巴基斯坦的销售量，因为顾客们仍需要以基于市场汇率的市场价格购买手机。
“For things like living standards, it’s very important to know that a haircut in China is still cheaper than in the U.S., but for many other economic and financial aggregates, market exchange rates are still what you want to look at,” he said.
他说，“就生活水平这样的问题而言，知道中国的理发费用比美国低这一点很重要，但对于其他许多经济及金融统计来说，市场汇率仍是你愿意选择的依据。”
The I.C.P. itself cautions against using its purchasing power estimates to compare developed economies, like the United States, with developing ones, like China, India and Brazil. According to the report, the margin of error when making such comparisons can be as much as plus or minus 15 percent. The P.P.P. measure is much more useful when comparing economies at similar levels of economic development in order to determine whether exchange rates are overvalued or undervalued, Mr. Kuijs said.
ICP自身也警告称，不要以PPP估值为依据来对比美国等发达国家与中国、印度、巴西等发展中国家。该组织的报告显示，此类对比的误差幅度可以高达正负15%。高路易表示，若是用来对比同等级别经济体的经济发展水平，以便判定汇率是过高还是过低，PPP的用处会大得多。
And since 2011, the base year for the new figures released on Wednesday, prices in China, for everything from homes to education, have risen faster than in the United States, even as the renminbi strengthened against the dollar. That means the price differentials between the two countries have since narrowed.
自2011年——周三公布的新数据的基准年——以来，中国各种物价——从住房到教育——的上涨速度都快于美国，尽管人民币兑美元有所升值。这意味着两国的价格差异已经缩小。
Still, many things in China are cheaper than in the United States — such as home delivery from Ikea, taxi rides and even Big Mac sandwiches from McDonald’s. The Big Mac is used by The Economist magazine to gauge the relative strength of currencies around the world. A McDonald’s in eastern Beijing offered a sandwich for 17 renminbi on Wednesday, or $2.71 at current exchange rates. That compares to an average price of $4.62 in the United States, according to the magazine. In Hong Kong, where per capita incomes are among the highest in the world, a Big Mac sold on Wednesday for the equivalent of $2.17
尽管如此，很多东西在中国还是比在美国便宜，比如宜家(Ikea)的送货费用、出租车费，甚至是麦当劳( McDonald’s)的巨无霸汉堡。《经济学人》(The Economist)杂志以巨无霸为标准评估了世界各国货币的相对购买力。周三，北京东部的一家麦当劳以17元人民币的价格出售汉堡，按当前汇率计算约合2.71美元。根据《经济学人》的数据，麦当劳汉堡在美国的均价为4.62美元。周三，香港麦当劳的巨无霸售价折合2.17美元，而香港的人均收入居于世界最高之列。
Many Chinese spurn Big Macs for more traditional – and cheaper – fare. One favorite in the Chinese capital is the jianbing, a Chinese crepe made with eggs, flour, a crispy wonton cracker, cilantro and scallions and lathered in spicy sauce. On Wednesday, Lu Ying, 45, was selling jianbing from a stand in front of a Starbucks in eastern Beijing. Her price: 6 renminbi, or 96 cents. In Seattle, a similar jianbing – albeit with a cage-free egg — is sold by the Bing of Fire food cart for $7.
很多中国人拒绝巨无霸，选择更传统且更便宜的食物。在中国的首都，人们最喜欢的一种食物是煎饼——用鸡蛋、面粉、薄脆、香菜叶、葱和辣酱制成的薄饼。周三，45岁的陆英（音译）在北京东部的一家星巴克(Starbucks)门前卖煎饼。一个煎饼卖6元，合96美分。而在西雅图，食品车Bing of Fire以7美元的价格售卖类似煎饼，尽管它用的是非笼养鸡蛋。
Do ordinary Chinese appreciate that they pay so much less for the same product? Does it make them feel as if they’ve finally reclaimed the title as top economy after two centuries of British and American dominance?
普通中国人知道自己在以比美国低这么多的价格购买相同产品吗？这会让他们觉得，在英美两国两个世纪的主导之后，自己终于夺回了最大经济体的头衔吗？
“If China’s economy has surpassed the U.S.A., why do I have to get up every morning at 4 a.m.?” Ms. Lu asked. “In a few years, I will be 50 years old. If China’s economy has surpassed the U.S.A., it certainly hasn’t had anything to do with me.”
“要说中国经济已经超过了美国，那我为什么还得每天早晨4点起床呢？”陆英问道，“再过几年，我就50岁了。就算中国经济已经超过了美国，那也肯定与我无关。”