EASTON, N.Y. — Something strange is happening at farms in upstate New York. The cows are milking themselves.
纽约州伊斯顿——纽约州北部的农场里，发生了奇怪的事情。奶牛们在自动挤奶。
Desperate for reliable labor and buoyed by soaring prices, dairy operations across the state are charging into a brave new world of udder care: robotic milkers, which feed and milk cow after cow without ever touching one with a human hand.
由于可靠的劳动力奇缺，而且奶价飞涨，州内各地的奶场正大量采用挤奶机器人，迈向照看奶牛的美丽新世界。无需人类动手，这些机器人就能给奶牛挨个喂食和挤奶。
Scores of the machines have popped up across New York’s dairy belt and in other states in recent years, changing age-old patterns of daily farm life and reinvigorating the allure of agriculture for a younger, tech-savvy — and manure-averse — generation.
近年来，有上百台这样的机器在纽约州的乳制品地带和其他一些州涌现。它们正在改变历史悠久的农场日常生活的面貌，并且重新激起了农业对熟悉技术——且不喜欢粪肥——的年轻世代的吸引力。
“We’re used to computers and stuff, and it’s more in line with that,” said Mike Borden, 29, a seventh-generation dairyman, whose farm upgraded to robots, as others did, when disco-era milking parlors — the big, mechanized turntables that farmers use to milk many cows at once — started showing their age.
今年29岁的麦克·博登(Mike Borden)是第七代奶场主。“我们熟悉电脑之类的东西，挤奶机器人跟那些更像是一脉相承的。”当迪斯科年代的挤奶间开始显露出过时的迹象时，他家的奶场也和别家一样，升级采用了挤奶机器人。挤奶间是大型的机械化旋转平台，能让奶农同时给许多奶牛挤奶。
“And,” Mr. Borden added, “it’s a lot more fun than doing manual labor.”
“而且，这比人工劳动要有意思多了，”博登还说。
The view is improved as well. “Most milking parlors, you see, you really only see the back end of the cow,” Mr. Borden’s father, Tom, said. “I don’t see that as building up much of a relationship.”
视野也有所改善。“你瞧，多数的挤奶间真的只能看到奶牛的屁股，”博登的父亲汤姆(Tom)说。“我觉得那样没法建立多少情感纽带。”
The cows seem to like it, too.
奶牛们似乎也喜欢这种机器。
Robots allow the cows to set their own hours, lining up for automated milking five or six times a day — turning the predawn and late-afternoon sessions around which dairy farmers long built their lives into a thing of the past.
挤奶机器人能让奶牛自行安排时间，每天排队自动挤五六次。这样，奶农们就不必再像长期习惯的那样，起早贪黑地挤奶了。
With transponders around their necks, the cows get individualized service. Lasers scan and map their underbellies, and a computer charts each animal’s “milking speed,” a critical factor in a 24-hour-a-day operation.
奶牛脖子上系着应答器，从而获得个性化的服务。激光扫描并探测它们的下腹部，电脑绘出每头奶牛的“出奶速度”图表。对每天24小时不间断的奶场而言，这一速度是关键因素。
The robots also monitor the amount and quality of milk produced, the frequency of visits to the machine, how much each cow has eaten, and even the number of steps each cow has taken per day, which can indicate when she is in heat.
机器人还会监测牛奶的产量和质量、奶牛来这里挤奶的频次、每头牛的食量，乃至每头牛每天行走的步数。最后这个指标能显示出奶牛的发情期。
“The animals just walk through,” said Jay Skellie, a dairyman from Salem, N.Y., after watching a demonstration. “I think we’ve got to look real hard at robots.”
来自纽约州塞勒姆的奶场主杰伊·斯凯利(Jay Skellie)看完示范后表示，“只需要让牛走一圈就行了。我觉得我们得好好研究一下机器人。”
Many of those running small farms said the choice of a computerized milker came down to a bigger question: whether to upgrade or just give up.
许多经营小型奶场的人认为，是否采用电脑化挤奶机器的问题，可以归结于一个更宏大的问题：是升级换代，还是干脆放弃？
“Either we were going to get out, we were going to get bigger, or we were going to try something different,” said the elder Mr. Borden, 59, whose family has been working a patch of ground about 30 miles northeast of Albany since 1837. “And this was something a little different.”
“要么我们不干了，要么扩大规模，要么做些新的尝试，”今年59岁的老博登说。从1837年起，他的家族就在奥尔巴尼东北30英里（约合50公里）处的这片土地劳作了。“这属于一点新的尝试。”
The Bordens and other farmers say a major force is cutting labor costs — health insurance, room and board, overtime, and workers’ compensation insurance — particularly when immigration reform is stalled in Washington and dependable help is hard to procure.
博登父子等奶场主表示，这背后的一大动力是削减劳动力成本——医保、食宿、加班费，以及员工的工伤险——尤其是目前华盛顿的移民改革陷入停滞，而可靠的帮手又难以招募。
The machines also never complain about getting up early, working late or being kicked.
而且，机器从不抱怨早起，或是被粗暴对待。
“It’s tough to find people to do it well and show up on time,” said Tim Kurtz, who installed four robotic milkers last year at his farm in Berks County, Pa. “And you don’t have to worry about that with a robot.”
蒂姆·库尔茨(Tim Kurtz)去年在宾夕法尼亚州伯克县的自家农场里，安装了四台挤奶机器人。他说，“很难找到活干得好又准时开工的人。机器人的话，就不必担心这些了。”
The Bordens say the machines allow them to do more of what they love: caring for animals.
博登父子称，机器让他们腾出更多的精力来做喜欢的事情：照顾奶牛。
“I’d rather be a cow manager,” Tom Borden said, “than a people manager.”
“比起管理人，我更喜欢管理奶牛，”汤姆·博登说。
The machines are not inexpensive, costing up to $250,000 (not including barn improvements) for a unit that includes a mechanical arm, teat-cleaning equipment, computerized displays, a milking apparatus and sensors to detect the position of the teats. Pioneered in Europe in the 1990s, they have only recently taken hold in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and New York, which is a leader in the production of Greek yogurt and the third-largest milk producer in the country.
挤奶机器人花费不菲，一台的价格高达25万美元（约合160万元人民币），还不包含牛栏改造的费用。每台机器人包含一条机械臂、乳头清洁设备、几块电子显示屏、一套挤奶器具，以及数个探测乳头位置的感应器。这种机器首先于上世纪90年代在欧洲试水，最近才在宾夕法尼亚、威斯康星和纽约三州流行开来。纽约州的希腊酸奶产量高居全美榜首，牛奶产量则位居第三。
Kathy Barrett, a senior extension associate at the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University, credited a recent surge in milk prices with motivating dairy owners to seek new ways to improve their farms — and farm life.
康奈尔大学(Cornell University)农业与生命科学院的高级推广教育助理凯茜·巴雷特(Kathy Barrett)认为，近期的奶制品价格飙升激励奶场主寻求新的途径来改进自己的农场——并改善务农的生活。
“It’s really the flexibility of not stopping doing hay because at 3 o’clock you have to go milk,” Ms. Barrett said.
“的确是由于它带来的灵活性，不用再因为得去挤奶，就在3点钟时把料理干草的活停下来了，”巴雷特说。
Ms. Barrett said about 30 farms in New York had installed more than 100 robotic milkers. Two European manufacturers, Lely and DeLaval, said they had installed hundreds more across the country. California, the nation’s leading dairy producer, has been a curious holdout, in part because there were problems at some farms that adopted the technology in its early years.
巴雷特表示，纽约州30座左右的奶场安装了100多台挤奶机器人。欧洲生产商Lely和DeLaval称，在全美各地另外安装了数百台。奇怪的是，全国乳制品产量最大的加利福尼亚州动作滞后，部分原因在于，早期采用了这项技术的一些农场出了问题。
The president of Western United Dairymen, Tom Barcellos, who milks some 1,300 cattle at his operation in Tulare County, Calif., said he was intrigued by the robots but worried that they would be too slow to keep up with the needs of a large herd.
西部乳业联合会(Western United Dairymen)会长汤姆·巴塞洛斯(Tom Barcellos)在加州图莱里县的自家农场养了1300头牛。他表示对机器人很好奇，但担心它们动作太慢，不能适应大群奶牛的需求。
“They just don’t milk enough cows to be economical,” Mr. Barcellos said. “You might milk 40 cows an hour. We can do 80.”
“它们不能给足够多的奶牛挤奶，不划算，”巴塞洛斯说。“你们每小时可能会给40头奶牛挤奶，我们可以做到80头。”
But farmers said output generally increased with robots because most cows like being milked more often. (To allow lactation, cows are kept in a near-constant state of impregnation.)
不过，奶场主们表示，使用机器人后，产量基本上都有所增加，因为大多数奶牛喜欢更加频繁地挤奶。（为了使奶牛分泌乳汁，奶农们使奶牛几乎一直保持在怀孕状态。）
Animal welfare advocates give the new machines a guarded thumbs-up. “Not being milked hurts,” said Paul Shapiro, a vice president of the Humane Society of the United States. He said letting cows move more freely was also an improvement on older methods that involved tying cows to stanchions.
动物维权人士谨慎地对这种新机器表示欢迎。美国人道协会(Humane Society of the United States)副会长保罗·夏皮罗(Paul Shapiro)说，“奶不挤出来会很疼。”他还表示，让奶牛更加自由地走动也是一种进步，因为旧方法需要将奶牛绑到柱子上。
The machines have mellowed both the cows and much of the routine on the Bordens’ farm — though the humans have received the occasional distress call from their mechanized milkers.
这些机器已能娴熟地配合奶牛和博登奶场的大部分常规工作，尽管人们偶尔也会收到挤奶机器发出的求救信号。