BODO, Norway — From his command post burrowed deep into a mountain of quartz and slate north of the Arctic Circle, the 54-year-old commander of the Norwegian military’s operations headquarters watches time flowing backward, pushed into reverse by surging Russian military activity redolent of East-West sparring during the Cold War.
挪威博德——他的指挥所隐藏在北极圈以北一座大山中挖出的洞穴里，山上满是石英和板岩。从那里，挪威军方行动总部这名54岁的指挥官仿佛看到时光倒流，而导致时光逆转的，正是俄罗斯日益加剧的军事活动。它让人想起了二战期间的东西方对立。
“I am what you could call a seasoned Cold Warrior,” the commander, Lt. Gen. Morten Haga Lunde, said, speaking in an underground complex built to withstand a nuclear blast. As a result, he added, he is not too alarmed by increased Russian military activity along NATO’s northern flank.
“我可能就是你会形容为‘冷战老兵’的那种人，”名为莫滕·哈加·伦德(Morten Haga Lunde)的这名指挥官在一处为抵御核爆炸而建的地下设施里说。所以，他接着说，他不会因为俄罗斯在北约(NATO)北侧的军事活动有所增强而过于惊慌。
“It is more or less the same as when I started,” said General Lunde, who began his career tracking Soviet warplanes as a Norwegian Air Force navigator in the early 1980s.
“这和我开始工作的时候大同小异，”伦德中将说。他是上世纪80年代初期开始自己的职业生涯的，当时是挪威空军的一名领航员，工作是追踪苏联战机。
After a long hiatus following the December 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union, when Moscow grounded its strategic bombers for lack of fuel, spare parts and will to project power, President Vladimir V. Putin’s newly assertive Russia “is back to normal behavior,” General Lunde said.
1991年12月苏联解体，莫斯科方面由于缺乏燃料、备件，以及展示力量的意愿，战略轰炸机停飞了很长一段时间。伦德说，在那之后，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统领导下的俄罗斯最近变得咄咄逼人，“回到了正常的行为模式”。
Last year, Norway intercepted 74 Russian warplanes off its coast, 27 percent more than in 2013, scrambling F-16 fighters from a military air base in Bodo to monitor and photograph them. This is far fewer than the hundreds of Soviet planes Norway tracked off its coast at the height of the Cold War. However, last year’s total was a drastic increase from the 11 Russian warplanes Norway spotted 10 years earlier.
去年，挪威在本国的海岸附近拦截了74架俄罗斯战机，较去年同期增加了27%。挪威仓促地从位于博德的一处空军基地派出了F-16战斗机，对那些飞机进行监控和拍照。这个数字远小于冷战巅峰时期的水平。那时，挪威在本国海岸附近追踪到了数百架苏联飞机。然而，同挪威10年前仅发现11架俄罗斯战机相比，去年的总数仍然急剧增加了。
In Norway, a country that takes pride in championing peace — witnessed in its brokering of pacts between Israelis and Palestinians and its awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize — what General Lunde called the “new old normal” has come as a jolt. It has set off debate over military spending and highlighted how quickly Mr. Putin has shredded the certainties of the post-Cold War era.
挪威是个以捍卫和平为傲的国家，安排以色列和巴勒斯坦签订协议，颁发诺贝尔和平奖的行动就证明了这一点。在这样一个国家，伦德中将所说的“旧常态的重现”令人感到震惊。这种常态引发了有关军费的争论，也突显出普京以多快的速度，撕毁了后冷战时代局势的确定性。
“Russia has created uncertainty about its intentions, so there is, of course, unpredictability,” Norway’s defense minister, Ine Eriksen Soreide, said in an interview in Oslo, adding that the military was being restructured to deal better with new risks, particularly in the Arctic.
“俄罗斯的意图产生了不确定性，因此当然带来了不可预见性，”挪威国防部长伊纳·埃里克森·索尔莱德(Ine Eriksen Soreide)在奥斯陆接受采访时说。她还表示，挪威正在重组军队，以更好地应对新威胁，特别是北极圈出现的威胁。
Nobody expects Russia to invade. So far, its warplanes have taken care not to stray into Norwegian airspace, unlike in the Baltics, where they regularly violate borders.
没人认为俄罗斯会入侵领空。到目前为止，俄罗斯的战机保持谨慎，避免误入挪威领空，不像在波罗的海，它们时常越境侵扰。
Russia has itself fed the scaremongering with bursts of belligerent language, like the recent comment by Moscow’s ambassador to Copenhagen that Danish warships “will be targets for Russia’s nuclear weapons” if Denmark contributes radar to a Europe-based missile defense system planned by NATO. Denmark’s foreign minister, Martin Lidegaard, dismissed the threat as “unacceptable.”
俄罗斯不断发表挑衅性的言论，助长了这种恐惧情绪，比如俄罗斯驻哥本哈根大使最近发表的言论。他说，如果丹麦向北约计划在欧洲部署的导弹防御系统提供雷达，丹麦战舰“就会成为俄罗斯核武器的攻击目标”。丹麦外长马丁·里德加德(Martin Lidegaard)表示，这种威胁是“不可接受的”。
Russia’s muscle-flexing is due in part simply to the fact that the country is spending more on its military and has re-established abilities eroded during the post-Soviet chaos of the 1990s. When Mr. Putin first became president in 2000, Russia spent $9.2 billion on its military, but this has since risen 10 times and will increase again this year despite a slumping economy, hammered by a collapse in the price of oil and also by Western sanctions.
俄罗斯炫耀武力的行为部分原因在于，该国军费不断增加，上世纪90年代苏联解体后在混乱局面中受损的军事实力，如今得到了回复。当普京于2000年首次登上总统宝座时，俄罗斯的军费为92亿美元（约合570亿元人民币），但此后军费提高了10倍，而且今年还会再次提高，尽管油价的下跌和西方的制裁举措，致使俄罗斯经济出现衰退。
“The signal they are sending is that the situation in the 1990s was an exception,” General Lunde said.
“他们发出的信号是，1990年代的情况是一种例外，”伦德说。
Jens Stoltenberg, a former Norwegian prime minister who became NATO’s secretary general late last year, said that Russia’s new assertiveness was not just a result of increased funding and revived ability. He said it was also “part of a broader picture where we see that Russia is willing to use force,” most notably in Georgia in 2008 and, more recently, in Ukraine.
去年年底担任北约秘书长的前挪威总理延斯·斯托尔滕贝格(Jens Stoltenberg)说，俄罗斯咄咄逼人的新姿态不仅仅是军费提高，军事实力恢复的结果。他说，这也是“我们看到的更大图景的一部分，俄罗斯愿意动用武力了”，最明显的体现就是2008年对格鲁吉亚，以及最近对乌克兰。
“It is this total picture that gives us reason for concern,” Mr. Stoltenberg said.
“正是这种全面的图景，让我们有理由感到担忧，”斯托尔滕贝格说。
Ukraine, he added, is very different from Norway, which is a member of NATO. Ukraine is outside the alliance and has no prospect of joining any time soon. However, Mr. Stoltenberg said, Norway and other NATO countries that share a border with Russia also have to deal with Russian efforts to “intimidate its neighbors,” no matter what their status
他又说，乌克兰与挪威十分不同。挪威是北约成员国，但乌克兰在这个防务联盟之外，且近期没有加入北约的前景。然而斯托尔滕贝格说，挪威和其他与俄罗斯接壤的北约国家，必须应对俄罗斯“恫吓邻国”的做法，无论本国的实力如何。