Eyal and Karen Hen started off as roommates.
伊亚尔(Eyal)和凯伦·亨(Karen Hen)，是从做室友开始的。
Mr. Hen came to New York from Israel a dozen years ago after serving in the Israeli army, and shared a large apartment in Kensington, Brooklyn, with several other Israelis.
多年前，伊亚尔·亨从以色列军队退伍后，从以色列来到了纽约。他和其他几位以色列人一起在布鲁克林的肯辛顿(Kensington)合租了一套大公寓。
A few years later, he received a Facebook message from Karen Rehany, who was from the same Israeli town, Nahariya. She was interested in coming to New York. His apartment had an available room; she jumped at the opportunity. He picked her up at the airport.
几年后，他收到一条来自凯伦•若汉尼(Karen Rehany)的Facebook信息，来自以色列的同一个城镇——Nahariya。她很想去纽约。他的公寓还有一个空房间；她抓住了这个机会。他到机场去接她。
One thing, as they say, led to another.
他们说，一件事接着一件事，顺理成章地发生了。
The living situation “was really fun, until at one point I decided I couldn’t live any more with five people and one bathroom,” she said.
合租的生活“的确非常有趣，直到有一天，我决定我不要再跟其他五个人住在一起，共用一个洗手间啦！”她说。
In 2009, the two married and moved into a tiny studio a few blocks from Barclays Center. The place was above Fish & Sip, a restaurant owned by Mr. Hen and a partner. He was two staircases away from work. Their rent was around $1,700 a month. Later, he opened Chick P, across the street.
2009年，两人结婚后搬进距巴克莱中心(Barclays Center)几个街区外的一家小型单间公寓住。公寓位于一家名为Fish & Sip的餐馆楼上，餐馆老板正是亨和另一位合伙人。他的住处离工作的地方也就两段楼梯那么远。他们的月租金大约是1700美元（约合人民币10606元）。不久之后，他又在街对面新开了一家名为Chick P的餐厅。
The Hens hunted off and on for a larger place to buy, with Mrs. Hen’s father agreeing to help with the down payment. But they did not find anything they all liked.
亨夫妇想买处大一点儿的地方，到处寻找房源。亨太太的父亲同意资助房子首付。但他们始终没有找到一处人人都满意的房子。
“Time flew by and we stopped searching because we had the business and we felt it was overwhelming,” said Mrs. Hen, who worked in the optometry field.
“时光飞逝而过，我们停止了搜索，因为我们的生意很忙，找房子让我们筋疲力尽，”亨太太说，她在眼科医院工作。
Last spring, when she became pregnant, the hunt resumed and intensified. This time, housing prices were higher. Their former price range, $500,000 to $600,000, had now ballooned to $800,000 or more.
去年春天，当她怀孕后，夫妇俩又重新开始加大力度寻找房子。这时候，房价更高了。他们最初问的价格大约在50万到60万美元（约合人民币312万到374万元），而现在暴涨到了80万美元（约合人民币500万元）甚至更高。
The Hens, both in their mid-30s, wanted a homey two-bedroom condo with a convenient layout and a washer-dryer. They preferred a relatively new building in Brooklyn, not too far from the restaurants.
夫妇俩都在三十五岁上下，他们想要一套舒适的公寓，有两间卧室，布局合理，还要有洗衣烘干两用机。他们看上了布鲁克林的一栋比较新的公寓，离两间餐馆也不远。
With their agent, Sunny Pyun of Bond New York, they checked out a ground-floor duplex on Fourth Avenue in Park Slope. It was listed at $799,000, with monthly charges of around $900. But one room on the lower level had no windows, and the couple felt the spiral staircase was unsafe.
在他们的经纪人、Bond New York公司的桑尼•尤尼(Sunny Pyun)的帮助下，夫妻俩看了一处位于公园坡(Park Slope)第四大道上一栋位于一楼的双层公寓的底楼。房子报价79.9万美元（约合人民币498万元），每月的税费是900美元（约合人民币5613元）。但其中一个位于下层的房间没窗户，而且，夫妻俩还觉得螺旋式楼梯不安全。
The apartment later sold for $784,000.
随后，这套公寓以78.4万美元（约合人民币489万美元）的价格售出了。
They went to see a two-bedroom on 11th Street in Park Slope, for $749,000 with monthly charges of around $300. But they were intimidated by the packed open house. “It was pretty much a perfect apartment,” Mrs. Hen said. “We knew it was not going to happen because so many people liked it.” It sold for $780,000.
他们又去看了公园坡第十一大道上的另一套两居室，报价74.9万美元（约合人民币467万元），每月的税费大约是300美元（约合人民币1871元）。他们被这座房子的火热程度吓到了。“这真是一套完美的公寓，”亨太太说，“我们知道我们可能买不到，太多人喜欢这套房子了。”最后，这套房子以78万美元（约合人民币486万元）成交。
One September day, Mrs. Hen felt bad back pain, so she went to the hospital, where their daughter, Barr, arrived three months early. She weighed just 2 pounds.
九月里的一天，亨太太觉得后背疼得很，就去了医院。随即他们的女儿巴尔(Barr)降生了。巴尔早产了三个月，出生时仅有2磅重。
For weeks, Mrs. Hen spent every day at the hospital. Sometimes, on the bus ride there, she cried. The Hens forgot about their search until Ms. Pyun, puzzled by their disappearance, got in touch.
在接下来的几周里，亨太太天天都得去医院。有时，坐在去医院的公交车上，她会暗自流泪。他们又顾不上找房的事了，直到尤尼联系他们。尤尼觉得奇怪，这对夫妇怎么突然消失了。
By this time, the Hens had taken little Barr home. But they knew they could not remain long in the walk-up studio. Hauling a stroller up the stairs was difficult, so her mother carried her in a sling or in her coat, kangaroo style.
到这会儿，亨夫妇已经把小巴尔带回了家。但他们知道，自己不可能再在这套只能走楼梯的单间公寓里住太久了。要把婴儿车搬上楼很费力，所以妈妈只能像袋鼠一样，用背带或外衣把宝宝运上楼。
The Hens decided they would have to hunt in a less expensive neighborhood farther out in Brooklyn, so they returned to Kensington. By now, because the opening of the Barclays Center had consumed street parking near the restaurants, Mr. Hen was determined to secure a spot for the car.
亨夫妇决定在布鲁克林远一点儿的地方找处不那么贵的社区，因此他们又回到了肯辛顿。现在，由于巴克莱中心的开业，餐馆周围的停车位少了很多。亨先生决定必须找一处有车位的地方。
The Hens instantly liked a townhouse-style duplex with a regular staircase built around 2005. The condo had two bedrooms, a living room and a kitchen on the top level, a rec room below, a washer-dryer, a shared backyard and a garage. The asking price was $725,000, with monthly charges in the mid $400s.
亨夫妇一眼看中了一套联排别墅风格的双层公寓，有常规的楼梯，建于2005年左右。那套共管公寓(condo)有两间卧室，顶楼是一间起居室和一间厨房，楼下有一间游戏室、洗衣烘干两用机、一个共用的后院，还有一间车库。其挂牌价为72.5万美元（约合人民币452万元），每月税费大约是400多美元（约合人民币2495元）。
Ms. Pyun wrote an offer letter. “There are two types of sellers — the emotional seller and the analytical seller,” she said. “I try to hit both sides.” She pointed out that her clients had a premature baby.
尤尼写了一封报价信。“市面上有两种卖家——一种是情绪化的，一种是理性分析型的，”她说，“两边我都试着去打动。”她在信里指出她的客户有一个早产的宝宝。
There was already a bid above the asking price, but the Hens were offering a much larger down payment. And the seller, as it happened, had herself been a premature baby, and was touched by the Hens’ situation.
本来都已经有人报价了，但是亨夫妇给出的首付款金额更高。碰巧的是，卖家也有一个早产的宝宝，所以很同情亨夫妇的情况。
They closed in the winter for $727,500.
冬天的时候，双方以72.75万美元（约合人民币454万元）的价格成交。
“I feel very at home,” Mrs. Hen said the other day. With the warmer weather and no steep stairs, “I put Barr in the stroller and I feel like a normal person.”
“我觉得这里很有家的感觉，”亨太太有一次说。在暖和的天气里，没有陡峭的楼梯，“我就把巴尔放在婴儿车里，感觉自己像个正常人了。”
Having space for a car has also normalized their routine. “I use the car even to go to the supermarket,” Mr. Hen said. He drives to Fish & Sip, leaving home about 9 a.m. and waiting in the car until street parking opens up at 10. He takes the subway, however, to his two more recently opened TriBeCa restaurants, Nish Nush (Hebrew for snack) and the takeout outpost of Sun in Bloom.
有了停车的空间，也令他们的生活更加正常化。“我甚至可以开车去超市了，”亨先生说。他早上九点出门，开车去Fish & Sip餐厅，在车里等到十点，街道停车场才开放。但是去另外两家在翠贝卡(TriBeCa)新开的餐厅时，他就乘坐地铁。两家餐厅一家名叫 Nish Nush（卖希伯来的小吃快餐），另外一家是外卖餐厅，名为 Sun in Bloom。
The couple have had to work around some things that are “hard to really check, or you can check but we didn’t think about,” Mrs. Hen said. The driveway is so steep that it scrapes the bottom of the car, so they rarely put the car in the garage.
夫妇俩有时不得不去解决一些棘手的问题。“买房之前是很难面面俱到地做检查的，或者也可以检查，但我们当时没考虑到。”亨太太说。车道太陡，很容易刮汽车地盘，所以他们很少把车开进车库里。
They sometimes hear their neighbors walking upstairs. “It’s not that horrible,” Mrs. Hen said. “I can be here for days and not hear them. It is very rarely that we hear something but when we do hear it, we hear it well. It doesn’t wake Barr, so it’s fine.”
有时，他们也能听见楼上邻居走路的声音。“但也没那么可怕，”亨太太说，“我有时在家里一连很多天都听不到什么。我们只是很偶尔才听到声音，不过一旦听到，就能听得很清楚。声音还不至于大到会吵醒巴尔，所以没关系。”