TAICHUNG, TAIWAN — THE bicycle maker Giant Manufacturing Company was established amid green rice paddies and earth-god temples, a short ride from the roar of the South China Sea. But for years its founder, King Liu, was never big on pedaling around to enjoy the scenery. The main reason he took one of his new products for a spin was to make sure everything worked.
台湾台中——自行车生产商捷安特股份有限公司(Giant Manufacturing Company)成立的地方，周围是翠绿的稻田，还有土地庙，骑车走一小段便能听到南海的波涛。但在很多年里，捷安特创始人刘金标(King Liu)一直不喜欢骑车欣赏四周的美景。他骑着新车转悠的主要目的是为了确保车子的一切正常。
After decades of struggles, it has. Giant is the world’s largest bike manufacturer by revenue. Its factories in Taiwan, China and the Netherlands churned out 6.3 million bicycles last year, generating revenue of $1.8 billion. The company sells bikes under its own name and makes them for major brands like Trek, Scott and Colnago.
历经几十年的奋斗后，捷安特的确一切正常。现在，按营收计算，捷安特是全球最大的自行车生产商。去年，捷安特设在台湾、中国大陆和荷兰的工厂生产了630万辆自行车，营收18亿美元（约合110亿元人民币）。捷安特不仅以自己的品牌销售自行车，还为像崔克(Trek)、Scott和Colnago这样的大品牌供货。
At 79, Mr. Liu still puts in 10-hour days as Giant’s chairman. But after four decades of building bikes by the millions, he’s finally started to enjoy them. Trim and tan from daily rides, with close-cropped gray hair and a heart rate monitor strapped to his wrist, he has become the public face of a cycling boom on Taiwan.
作为捷安特的董事长，现已79岁高龄的刘金标每天依然要投入10小时到工作中去。在过去40年里，他的工厂每年都要生产数以百万计的自行车，到如今，他终于开始享受这些自行车了，每天骑车让他身形匀称，肤色呈棕褐色。刘金标一头花白的短发，手腕上戴着一个心率监测仪，他以这样的形象，成了台湾自行车骑行热潮的代言人。
“I have a mission to make Taiwan a capital of cycling,” he said.
他说，“我担负着让台湾成为单车骑行之都的使命。”
Since 2007, bicycle sales on Taiwan have surged, bike lanes and paths have been expanded, and the island’s two largest cities, Taipei and Kaohsiung, have launched bike-share programs. At every step Mr. Liu has unflaggingly promoted the cause.
从2007年开始，台湾的自行车销量猛涨，自行车道也增加了，台湾最大的两座城市台北和高雄也已发起了自行车共享项目。其中的每一步，刘金标都在坚持不懈地推动。
His evolution from a small-town tinkerer to an industry titan reflects greater shifts of Taiwan and its economy. Once a workshop to the world, anonymously churning out bikes, cellphones and computers for big-name foreign companies, Taiwan now has firms like Giant, HTC and Acer that have become global brands in their own right. With those successes come new questions about whether those businesses can continue to lead and innovate.
他从小镇工匠到业界巨人的发展演变，反映了台湾及其经济发生的更大转型。台湾曾是一个产品遍及全球的世界工厂，默默无闻地为外国大牌企业生产自行车、手机和电脑，但现在，台湾已经有了像捷安特、HTC和宏碁(Acer)这样的企业，它们已经凭借自己的实力变成了全球品牌。在取得这种成功的同时，也产生了一个新问题：它们能否维持领先地位，继续创新？
For Mr. Liu, the answer is not just selling more Giant products (though his cycling advocacy campaign certainly helps with that), but focusing on how bicycles can reduce pollution, make people healthier and help cities function better. “It’s been amazingly successful P.R. for his company, but he’s not only doing it for that,” said Ho-chen Tan, former chairman of Chunghwa Telecom, Taiwan’s largest phone company, and a regular cyclist. “He’s showing that even people his age can do this. His encouragement and commitment is a driving force for people to follow.”
对刘金标而言，答案不仅在于卖出更多捷安特的产品（不过他的骑行倡导运动肯定有助于销售），而且要关注自行车可以怎样减少污染、让人们更健康，以及帮助城市更好地运行。“对他的公司而言，这是非常成功的公关，但他这么做不仅是为了这个，”台湾最大的电话公司中华电信(Chunghwa Telecom)前董事长贺陈旦(Ho-chen Tan)说，“他向人们展示出，即使到了他这个年龄仍然能这么做。他的鼓励和身体力行是人们追随他的动力。”贺陈旦也经常骑自行车。
Mr. Liu’s transformation, and that of many of his cycling compatriots, was motivated somewhat unexpectedly by a 2007 film, “Island Etude,” about a young man who bicycles around Taiwan. “With some things, if you don’t do them now, you might never do them in your life,” was its most often repeated line.
有些出人意料的是，刘金标的转变，和许多像他这样的骑行者一样，是受到了2007年上映的电影《练习曲》(Island Etude)的激励。这部电影讲述了一个年轻人环台湾骑行的故事，剧中重复最多的一句台词是，“有些事现在不做，一辈子都不会做了。”
“I saw the film and thought, that line, it’s criticizing me, isn’t it?” Mr. Liu said. “I was 73, and I thought if I don’t ride now, I’ll never be able to do it.” So he took up the film’s challenge, planning a circumnavigation of Taiwan.
“我看了那部电影后想，那句台词是在批评我，难道不是吗？”刘金标说，“那时我73岁，我想，如果现在不骑车，我就永远都骑不了了。”于是，他接受了电影的挑战，计划进行一次环岛骑行。
He trained for six months, but admits that was not enough. Images of the 2007 ride show his round belly pressing against his jersey, his face locked in a scowl. “Oh, that trip was really miserable,” he said. “I had back pain, sleep apnea, high blood pressure and so on. Old people’s problems.” At one point he was knocked down by a car and scraped. But he persevered, finishing 575 miles in 15 days.
他进行了六个月的训练，但他坦承这并不够。在2007年那次环岛骑行时拍摄的照片上，他圆圆的肚腩将运动衫撑得鼓鼓的，脸上一幅愁容。“哎，那次骑行真的很惨，”他说，“我后背痛、睡觉时会呼吸暂停，还有高血压等等，都是老人家的问题。”其间他有一次被车撞倒并擦伤，不过他坚持了下来，用15天的时间完成了575英里（约925公里）的旅行。
In business he has shown the same determination. After graduating from a technical high school, he cast about at several professions — transportation, chemicals, food imports, hardware — before deciding to build a bike factory with several friends in 1972. He was 38 and still reeling from the loss of his previous venture, a coastal eel farm that was destroyed in a typhoon.
在生意上，他也表现出了相同的决心。从一所技术高中毕业后，他尝试过好几个行业，包括运输、化工、食品进口、五金器具。后来，在1972年他决定与几个朋友一起成立一个自行车厂。那时，他38岁，依然受困于之前一次创业的损失。那是一家位于海边的鳗鱼场，在一场台风中被毁。
“For the first four years we had no orders,” he said. “The image of products from Taiwan was very poor.”
“头四年我们根本没有订单，”他说，“台湾货的形象很糟糕。”
HAVING learned to speak Japanese as a child while Taiwan was under Japanese occupation, he traveled to Japan and studied what was then the premier bike manufacturing economy. A major breakthrough came in 1977 when Giant’s chief executive, Tony Lo, negotiated a deal with Schwinn to begin manufacturing bikes for the iconic American brand.
他幼时台湾还在由日本统治，他也因此学会了说日语。于是，他前往日本了解当时一流的自行车制造产业。重大突破出现在1977年，当时，捷安特的执行长罗祥安(Tony Lo)与美国的标志性品牌施文(Schwinn)达成协议，为该品牌制造自行车。
Schwinn became both Giant’s strength and weakness. Bike sales leapt in the United States during the oil crisis, and after workers at the Schwinn plant in Chicago went on strike in 1980, Giant became a key supplier, making more than two-thirds of Schwinn’s bikes by the mid-1980s.
后来，施文既成了捷安特的优势，也成了它的软肋。石油危机期间，美国的自行车销量猛增。1980年，在施文芝加哥工厂的工人举行罢工后，捷安特成了施文的主要供应商。到80年代中期，施文三分之二以上的自行车都是由捷安特制造。
Then Schwinn decided to find a new source, and in 1987 signed a contract with China Bicycle Company to make bikes in Shenzhen, near Hong Kong. “We were terrified,” Mr. Liu said. Giant relied on Schwinn for 75 percent of its orders, and its survival was at risk.
后来，施文决定找新的货源，并于1987年与深圳中华自行车公司签订协议，在距离香港不远的深圳生产自行车。“我们被吓住了，”刘金标说。鉴于捷安特75%的订单依赖施文，它的生存受到了威胁。 Giant began focusing on building its own brand, setting up operations in Europe and the United States. Gradually sales of Giant-brand bicycles grew. At the same time Schwinn’s fortunes declined, and it filed for bankruptcy in 1992. The American company was never able to get cheaper production from its China Bicycle investment, said Jay Townley, an industry consultant who was an executive at Schwinn and later Giant’s American arm.
捷安特开始把精力集中在打造自己的品牌上，在欧洲和美国设立了业务部门。捷安特牌自行车的销量逐渐提升，同时施文开始走下坡路，并于1992年申请破产。行业顾问杰伊·汤利(Jay Townley)说，施文从未能依靠在中华自行车公司的投资降低生产成本。汤利当时是施文的高管，后来供职于捷安特在美国的分公司。
Mr. Townley, who has known Mr. Liu since the early 1980s, said that in that era, most bike executives weren’t interested in fitness. “Everybody smoked, everybody drank,” he said. “There were some cyclists, but rarely like what you see today.” Mr. Liu, he said, was better known as a ballroom dancer.
从上世纪80年代早期就认识刘金标的汤利说，在那个年代，自行车行业的大多数高管都对健康不感兴趣。“所有人都抽烟，所有人都喝酒，”他说，“也有一些骑自行车的人，不过很少像你现在看到的这样。”他说，刘金标更为人所知的身份是舞场高手。
Now Mr. Liu focuses on his bike. He racks up about 25 miles a day, riding in the early morning around Giant’s headquarters in the central city of Taichung. He feels depressed when he can’t train because of rain or work trips. “I can’t stop riding,” he said.
如今，刘金标把心思都集中在了他的自行车上。每天清晨，他都会绕着捷安特位于中部城市台中的总部骑大约25英里。如果因为下雨或出差而无法训练，他会觉得很郁闷。他说，“我做不到不骑车。”
IN 2009, he followed up his trip around Taiwan with a 1,000-mile ride to Shanghai from Beijing. It was a logical next step. Giant’s manufacturing is now largely based in China, where it has six factories. China dominates global bicycle production, but Taiwanese companies either own or operate the factories that produce about 80 percent of China’s bicycle exports, industry analysts say.
在环岛之后，在2009年他从上海骑车到北京，行程1000英里。这次的旅程合情合理，因为现在，捷安特的制造部门大部分都在中国大陆。它在大陆设有六家工厂。业内分析人士表示，中国大陆是全球最大的自行车产地，但中国大陆出口的自行车中，大约80%是由台湾企业拥有或经营的工厂生产的。
While China’s legions of bike commuters have declined in recent decades, the number of recreational cyclists is growing, making it a crucial market. Giant is one of the most popular brands in China, thanks to a strategy focusing on higher-quality, more expensive bikes.
尽管近几十年来，中国大陆骑自行车上下班的人数减少了，但休闲骑行者人数正在增加，使大陆成了一个关键市场。捷安特的战略是专注于质量更好、定价更高的车型，这种战略使得捷安特成了中国大陆最受欢迎的品牌之一。
But while recreational cycling is rising in China, it has taken off in Taiwan. Bike sales hovered around 600,000 annually for most of the 2000s before surging to 1.3 million in 2008. Taiwanese buy about 900,000 bikes a year.
休闲骑行正在大陆兴起，而在台湾已经十分流行。自2000年以来的大部分年份里，台湾自行车的年销量都在60万辆左右浮动，在2008年激增至130万辆。现在，台湾人每年要买90万辆自行车。
Mr. Liu believes that Taipei, with its car- and motorbike-clogged streets, is the biggest obstacle to making Taiwan a “cycling island.” The city’s government is trying to make it more inviting for cyclists, widening sidewalks for bikes and expanding its bike-share program. Monthly use of YouBikes, Giant three-speed cruisers that rent for less than a dollar an hour, climbed nearly sixfold from September to May, to more than 790,000 trips.
刘金标相信，街道被汽车和摩托车挤得水泄不通的台北，是台湾成为“自行车骑行之岛”的最大障碍。台北市政府正在拓宽马路两侧的自行车道，拓展公共自行车项目，努力让这座城市变得更能吸引骑自行车的人。从9月到5月，“微笑单车”(YouBikes)的月使用量增加到了79万人次以上，提高了近六倍。该计划使用的是捷安特三速自行车，租金每小时不到1美元。
Mr. Liu knows he can draw people to cycling. For his 80th birthday next year, he plans to ride around Taiwan, repeating his 2007 route. “I want to show I’m even stronger than when I started,” he said. “If my stamina is better than when I was 73, that should be a big news story.”
刘金标知道自己有能力吸引人们骑自行车。明年的80岁生日，他计划重走2007年的路线，再次骑车环岛。“我希望向人们展示，我现在比刚开始骑单车时更强壮了，”他说，“如果我的精力比73岁还好，应该是大新闻了。”