FRANKFURT, Germany — A remarkable period of growth ended at Volkswagen on Wednesday when the carmaker reported its first quarterly loss in at least 15 years and began the costly process of absorbing the expense of fixing millions of cars designed to cheat on emissions tests.
德国法兰克福——本周三，大众汽车公司(Volkswagen)一段非同凡响的增长期结束了，该公司公布了至少15年来的首次季度亏损，而且启动了一个费用高昂的过程，来修复数百万辆装有排放测试作弊手段的汽车。
The day also was the end of a defining era of Volkswagen ambition. Matthias Mueller, the new chief executive, signaled that the company would no longer be focused on becoming the world's largest carmaker.
这一天，也是大众雄心时代的结束。新上任的首席执行官马蒂亚斯·穆勒(Matthias Mueller)暗示，该公司不会再一心想要成为世界上最大的汽车制造商。
He said Wednesday that sales would not cease to be an overriding measure of success. In another shift, he also said that top executives at company headquarters in Wolfsburg, Germany, who had been criticized for micromanaging, would no longer get involved in details of product design.
但他在本周三表示，公司还会将销售额视为衡量成功的主要指标。另一个转变是，他表示，德国沃尔夫斯堡总部的公司高管们，将不再插手产品设计的细节问题。这些高管事无巨细的管理方式此前曾遭受诟病。
Mueller's statement represents a clear break from his predecessor, Martin Winterkorn, who resigned in late September after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency disclosed that Volkswagen diesel cars were equipped with software that could detect when a car was being tested and crank up pollution controls.
穆勒的说法明确显示了对前任CEO马丁·文德恩(Martin Winterkorn)政策的改弦更张。文德恩在9月下旬辞职，因为美国环境保护局（Environment Protection Agency，简称EPA）披露，大众柴油车内装有软件，可以检测出一辆汽车正在经受测试，并启动污染控制功能。
The earnings report Wednesday provided a first taste of the financial cost to Volkswagen of its past behavior. The company said it had a net loss of $1.84 billion in the third quarter as it set aside a huge sum to help cover the expected damage from the company's emissions-cheating scandal.
在周三发布的财报中，可以第一次看到大众为过去的行为付出的财务代价。该公司表示，它在第三季度净亏损约合18.4亿美元，因为公司拨出了一笔巨款，来帮助支付排放作弊丑闻预期的赔偿金。
It was the first quarterly loss in as long as anyone can remember. A company spokesman said that internal records went back only to 2001. Previously, Volkswagen did not report quarterly earnings. The loss, totaling 1.67 billion euros, compared with a profit of 2.97 billion euros in the third quarter of 2014.
这是人们记忆中该公司首次出现季度亏损。该公司发言人表示，内部资料最早只到2001年。在那之前，大众并没有公布过季度财报。该公司第三季度总共亏损了16.7亿欧元，而2014年时第三季度盈利29.7亿欧元。
Volkswagen subtracted 6.7 billion euros from profit to cover the expense of recalling and repairing about 9 million cars in Europe and the United States equipped with the illegal software.
大众从利润中扣除了67亿欧元，用以支付在欧美召回和维修约900万辆安装了非法软件的柴油车的费用。
That sum does not cover the cost of fines that Volkswagen is likely to have to pay to the EPA and to other authorities around the world.
这笔款项还不包括大众很可能要向EPA和全球其他机构支付的罚款。
“It is still far too early to calculate the cost of legal measures,” Frank Witter, the chief financial officer, said during the conference call Wednesday.
“现在计算法律措施的费用还为时过早，”公司首席财务官弗兰克·惠特尔(Frank Witter)在周三的电话会议中表示。
The company said it expected profit for full-year 2015 “to be down significantly” from 2014. Volkswagen shares are down more than 30 percent since the emissions cheating became known Sept. 18.
该公司表示，2015全年利润预期“将大幅下降”。自从9月18日作弊丑闻曝光以来，大众汽车的股价已比2014年下跌了逾30%。