SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea appears to have resumed work at its nuclear test site after a perplexing series of volleyball matches were held there, according to analysts who studied satellite images of the site, renewing concerns that a major weapons test could be imminent.
韩国首尔——分析人士在对朝鲜一处核试验场地的卫星图片进行了研究后称，在举行了一系列令人费解的排球比赛后，朝鲜似乎恢复了那里的工作。这再度引起了外界对朝鲜即将进行一次大型武器试验的担忧。
Many observers had feared that North Korea would test a nuclear device at the site around April 15, the birthday of Kim Il-sung, the North’s founding president and the grandfather of the current leader, Kim Jong-un. But Mr. Kim’s government celebrated the day instead with a military parade in Pyongyang, the capital, during which a fleet of missiles were rolled out, including what analysts believed were never-before-seen long-range ballistic missiles.
很多观察人士曾担心朝鲜会在朝鲜国父、现任领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的祖父金日成(Kim Il-sung)4月15日诞辰前后进行试验。但当天，金正恩政府只在平壤举行了阅兵，以示庆祝。阅兵仪式上展示了一系列导弹，包括分析人士认为以前从未见过的远程弹道导弹。
North Korea carried out a missile test on Sunday, but it was considered an embarrassing failure, with the projectile exploding immediately after liftoff.
朝鲜在周日进行了一次导弹试验，但以令人尴尬的失败告终，导弹在升空后立即爆炸。
But North Korea is preparing to celebrate another major holiday this coming week: Tuesday will be the 85th anniversary of the founding of the Korean People’s Army, and the North often uses such occasions to show off its military advances.
但朝鲜正在为庆祝本周到来的另一个重大节日做准备：周二是朝鲜人民军(North Korean People's Army)建军85周年纪念日。朝鲜通常会利用这种时候炫耀自己在军事上的进步。
“Given the North’s recent provocative words and actions and its April 25 People’s Army anniversary, there is concern that the North can attempt a provocation at any time,” South Korea’s acting president, Hwang Kyo-ahn, said Thursday.
“考虑到朝鲜最近的挑衅言论和行为，以及4月25日的人民军周年纪念，对朝鲜随时都可能试图进行挑衅的担忧是存在的，”朝鲜代理总统黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)周四说。
On Friday, the analysts Joseph S. Bermudez Jr. and Jack Liu posted new satellite images of the nuclear test site in Punggye-ri, in northeastern North Korea, on 38 North, a website affiliated with the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies.
周五，分析人士小约瑟夫·S·贝穆德斯(Joseph S. Bermudez Jr)和杰克·刘(Jack Liu)在约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际问题研究院(Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies)的网站北纬38度(38 North)上发布了朝鲜东北部丰溪里(Punggye-ri)核试验场的最新卫星图片。
From the commercial imagery dating from Wednesday, they noted what looked like trailers near the portal of a tunnel where they said North Korea appeared to have been preparing for a nuclear test, which would be its sixth. They also noted mining carts along the tracks leading to a spoil pile and a net canopy, presumably concealing equipment.
从周三拍摄的商业卫星图像上，他们在一条隧道的出入口附近发现了看上去像拖车的东西。他们说，朝鲜似乎一直在那里筹备核试验。这将是朝鲜的第六次核试验。他们还在通往一个矸石堆和一个网状遮蓬——大概是用来盖住设备——的道路沿途发现了采矿车。
The North Koreans appeared to have stopped pumping water out of the tunnel. In an earlier report, the analysts said this might mean that the tunnel had been sealed for a possible test.
朝鲜似乎已停止从隧道里往外抽水。在早前的一份报告中，分析人士称这也许意味着为了进行试验，朝鲜已将隧道封了起来。
In their previous study of satellite photos, taken last Sunday, the analysts noted several teams at the test site playing volleyball, a popular sport in the North. That left observers wondering whether the North Koreans were engaged in some sort of deception — they are believed to know when commercial satellites that take such images will fly overhead — or were simply taking Sunday off.
在之前对上周日拍摄的卫星图片进行的研究中，相关分析人士在该试验场发现了几支打排球的队伍。在朝鲜，排球运动颇为流行。这让观察人士怀疑这究竟是朝鲜在进行某种掩饰——他们应该知道拍摄这种图片的商业卫星会在何时飞过头顶——还是纯粹的周日休息活动。
No one was playing volleyball in the images taken Wednesday.
在周三拍摄的图片中，没人打排球。
Mr. Bermudez and Mr. Liu said it was unclear whether the latest activity from Punggye-ri reflected a “tactical pause” before a coming nuclear test, a prolonged “stand-down” from testing or normal operations at the site.
贝穆德斯和杰克·刘称，尚不清楚丰溪里的最新活动是代表即将举行核试验前的“战术停顿”、延长的“暂停”试验还是该地的正常运转。
“Regardless, satellite imagery continues to indicate that the Punggye-ri nuclear test site appears able to conduct a sixth nuclear test at any time once the order is received from Pyongyang,” they concluded.
“无论如何，卫星图像依然表明，丰溪里核试验场地似乎具备一旦收到平壤的命令，随时进行第六次核试验的能力，”他们最后说。
If the North tests another nuclear device, it would be a major show of defiance by Kim Jong-un, coming after President Trump’s repeated warnings against his country. Speaking on Monday in Seoul, the South Korean capital, Vice President Mike Pence said North Korea would do well not to test Mr. Trump’s “resolve or the strength of armed forces of the United States in the region.”
如果朝鲜再次试验核装置，这将是金正恩在特朗普总统多次警告该国后表示反抗的的大动作。上周一在韩国首都首尔发表讲话时，美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)称朝鲜最好不要考验特朗普的“决心和驻守在该地区的美国武装部队的实力”。
On Saturday in Sydney, Australia, Mr. Pence said that an American naval strike group led by the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson was expected to be in the Sea of Japan, which borders the Korean Peninsula, by the end of April.
彭斯周六在澳大利亚悉尼表示，以“卡尔文森号”(Carl Vinson)航空母舰为首的一个美国海军战斗群预计将在4月底之前进入与朝鲜半岛接壤的日本海。
Senior aides to Mr. Trump have said that military options are not off the table in dealing with North Korea’s rapidly advancing nuclear and missile technologies. Those remarks prompted fears in the region that the new American president might order a pre-emptive strike at North Korea’s weapons sites, which could set off a war.
特朗普的高级助手表示，在处理朝鲜迅速提高的核武器和导弹技术上，不排除采取军事行动的可能。这些表述在该地区引发了对新任美国总统可能会下令对朝鲜的武器场地发起先发制人打击的担忧。这可能会引发战争。
North Korea has conducted a series of nuclear and ballistic missile tests since 2006 as it seeks to develop a small, sophisticated nuclear warhead and an intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM, capable of reaching targets as far away as the United States.
自2006年以来，朝鲜已进行了一系列核武器和弹道导弹试验。该国寻求研制一种精密的小型核弹头和一种可以打到美国的洲际弹道导弹（intercontinental ballistic missile，简称ICBM）。
In a New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim said his country was almost ready to conduct its first ICBM test.
在元旦致辞中，金正恩称该国几乎已做好进行首次ICBM试验的准备。