Alexander Guo had been waiting in the baking sun since 6:45 a.m. — nearly five and a half hours. Finally, ahead of him, people in line took three or four steps forward.
亚历山大·郭(Alexander Guo)从早晨6点45分就开始在炙热的太阳下等待，等了差不多5个半小时。排在他前面的人终于往前挪了三四步。
“It’s moving again!” Mr. Guo, a 20-year-old Williams College junior, shouted on Saturday morning. “It’s a miracle!”
“又开始动了！”郭喊道，“真是奇迹！”20岁的郭是威廉姆斯学院的大三学生，当时是周六上午。
Since May 12, Mr. Guo and tens of thousands of others — art lovers, technology buffs and the merely curious — have trooped to the Museum of Modern Art for a chance to experience “Rain Room,” a temporary installation in which water rains down except where sensors detect people, giving visitors the illusion of walking between the drops.
从5月12日起，郭和其他成千上万人——艺术爱好者、科技爱好者以及纯粹出于好奇的人——成群结队来到MoMA，就是为了有机会体验一下“雨屋”。这是一个临时艺术装置，在这个屋子里，水像雨点般降落，但是感应器感应到有人的地方不会降雨，这给参观者造成一种幻觉，好像他们是在雨点之间行走。
The work, by the little-known art collective rAndom International, received tepid reviews from art critics. Writing in The New York Times, Ken Johnson said, “ ‘Rain Room,’ for all its entertaining ingenuity, seems little more than a gimmicky diversion.” But fueled by thousands of photos — dramatically backlighted, Hollywood-like — posted on social media, and by the increasing popularity of immersive art, people have been willing to stand for hours in 90-plus-degree weather to snap their own pictures inside.
这件作品是由名不见经传的艺术团体rAndom International设计的。艺术评论家们对它的态度比较冷淡。肯·约翰逊(Ken Johnson)在《纽约时报》上说，“ 尽管‘雨屋’设计巧妙，也很有趣，但是它似乎只能算是巧妙的消遣。”但是由于社交媒体上发布的成千上万张照片——这些照片具有好莱坞式的戏剧化的背光——也因为沉浸式艺术越来越流行，人们为了在里面拍出自己的照片，乐意在90多华氏度的户外站几个小时。
“It’s a New York thing — FOMO,” said Brianne Chai-Onn, 34, using the acronym for “fear of missing out.”
“它是纽约人的一个特点——FOMO，”34岁的布莱恩·查昂(Brianne Chai-Onn)说。这个首字母短语的意思是“担心错过”(fear of missing out)。
“A lot of people have this syndrome,” she said while waiting in line on Saturday. “That’s why we don’t sit in our apartments.”
“很多人有这种症状，”她周六排队的时候说，“就因为这个，我们不想宅在家里。”
The average wait on weekdays, according to MoMA, has been four to five hours for nonmembers and two to three hours for members, who use a fast-track line. Weekends are worse; a nonmember can expect to wait more than five hours. Some visitors last weekend reported waiting nine hours, longer than a standard work day.
根据MoMA的统计，非会员在工作日的平均等待时间是4至5个小时，会员的等待时间是2至3个小时，因为后者可以在快速通道排队。周末更糟糕，非会员等待的时间可能超过5个小时。据报道，有些参观者上周末等了9个小时，比每天的标准工作时间还长。
On Sunday, the first people in line were admitted at precisely 9:30 a.m., when the museum opened. But the line had been declared full — and closed — a half-hour earlier.
周日，队伍里的第一批人在上午9点半博物馆开门时准时入内。但是在半小时之前，博物馆宣布队伍排满了，不能再排了。
The wait is partly a result of the artists’ decision to cap the exhibit’s capacity to 10 at a time — a mob would trigger the sensors into shutting off the rain entirely — and by the many visitors who ignore the museum’s polite request to limit visits to 10 minutes. So far, roughly 55,000 visitors have passed through “Rain Room,” according to the Modern.
要等这么长时间，原因之一是艺术家们把装置容纳的人数设定为一次10人——人太多的话，感应器会让整个降雨停止，另一个原因是很多参观者不理会博物馆礼貌的请求：只能体验10分钟。该博物馆称，到目前为止，约有55000人体验过“雨屋”。
The lines seem to defy rational explanation, even to those devoting their time to them.
这些长队似乎无法用理性解释，甚至花时间排队的人自己也说不清为什么。
“There has to be a reason people are waiting this long,” said Sylvana Fernandez, 24, who lives in Brooklyn, about four hours into her wait.
“人们愿意等这么长时间肯定有原因，”24岁的西尔瓦纳·费尔南德斯(Sylvana Fernandez)说。她住在布鲁克林，已经等了大约4个小时。
Laurie Garrett, 61, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, waited for two hours last Thursday morning — her third attempt to see the show. MoMA, she said, treated visitors like “cattle in line.”
61岁的劳里·加勒特(Laurie Garrett)是对外关系委员会的一名资深研究员，上周四上午她等了两个小时，那是她第三次试图观看这个展览了。她说，MoMA对待参观者像对待“牲口”。
“I don’t understand why they didn’t have a reservation system,” said Ms. Garrett, who lives in Brooklyn. “And it’s July! There were people who were melting on the sidewalk.” Afterward, she said that though she was impressed by the engineering, she was underwhelmed by the experience.
“我不明白他们为什么不能提供一个预约系统，”加勒特说。她住在布鲁克林。“而且现在是7月份！有些人在人行道上都快被晒化了。”后来她说虽然这个装置让她印象深刻，但是这种经历让她很失望。
But at least four couples have become engaged surrounded by the rain, according to MoMA. On Monday, Scott Milam, a 27-year-old wedding photographer, brought his girlfriend of 15 months, Molly Caldwell, all the way from Phoenix, to ask her to marry him. Ms. Caldwell “has always been convinced it would rain on her wedding day,” Mr. Milam said afterward. “When I saw ‘Rain Room’ on Instagram, I was blown away and went, ‘Gosh, I can’t make it rain on her wedding day, but I can on the day I propose to her.” She said yes.
但是据MoMA称，至少有四对情侣在雨水的包围下订婚了。周一，27岁的婚礼摄影师斯科特·米拉姆(Scott Milam)把交往了15个月的女友莫莉·考德威尔(Molly Caldwell)从菲尼克斯带到这里，向她求婚。米拉姆后来说，考德威尔“一直坚信她结婚那天会下雨”，“我在Instagram上看到 ‘雨屋’后被深深打动了，心想‘天哪，我不能保证她结婚那天下雨，但是我能保证向她求婚那天下雨’”。她答应了他的求婚。
With waits expected to lengthen as the July 28 closing date nears, two members of the rAndom International studio, Hannes Koch and Florian Ortkrass, flew to New York from their London base last week to meet with MoMA officials. The artists, wanting to preserve what Mr. Koch called the “meditative” aspect of the piece, firmly opposed a mandatory time limit; and in the end, MoMA did not make any official changes.
随着7月28日结束日即将来临，等待的时间可能更长，rAndom International studio的两名成员汉内斯·科赫(Hannes Koch)和佛罗莱恩·奥特克拉斯(Florian Ortkrass)上周从他们位于伦敦的工作地飞往纽约，会见MoMA的主管们。艺术家们想保持这件作品“冥思”（科赫的话）的一面，坚决反对任何强制性的时间限制。最后，MoMA没有做出任何官方的改变。
“The queue should be part of the work; it should be a social experience,” Mr. Koch said by telephone, but added, “We have to make it not miserable.”
“排队应该是这件作品的一部分，它应该是一种社会体验，”科赫在接受电话采访时说。但是他又补充说，“我们必须让排队不那么痛苦。”
To speed things up, the museum has created a viewing-only line, for people who want just to observe but not to frolic in the rain. The weekend wait: about 40 minutes.
为了加快速度，MoMA为那些只观看但是不在雨中嬉戏的观众设立了专门的队伍。这个队伍周末的等待时间大约是40分钟。
Anyone exceeding a 10-minute visit gets a “courtesy tap” on the shoulder, said Dave Bennett, MoMA’s lobby membership manager. But several visitors said they felt hurried through.
MoMA的大堂会员主管戴夫·班尼特(Dave Bennett)说，不管哪个观众观看时间超过10分钟，我们都会在他/她肩膀上“友好地拍一下”。但是有几个参观者说他们感觉被搞得十分匆忙。
“The longer people wait, the longer they want to stay,” Mr. Bennett said. “It’s a vicious cycle.”
“人们等得越久，就越想多待一会儿，”班尼特说，“这是个恶性循环。”
As if to illustrate his point, Tanya Maldonado-Toomey, 28, of Manhattan, who had waited four hours and was still far from the entrance, declared, “I’m going to be in there an hour.”
28岁的塔尼娅·马尔多纳多-图米(Tanya Maldonado-Toomey)来自曼哈顿，她等了4个小时，但是离入口还很远，她宣布：“我要在里面待一个小时。”正好印证了班尼特的话。
MoMA had an inkling demand would be strong: When “Rain Room” made its debut last fall in London, waiting times hit 12 hours. Still, Mr. Koch said: “That was Great Britain. People like queuing. They have a special relationship with rain.”
MoMA之前就隐隐感到观众的需求会很强烈：“雨屋”去年秋天在伦敦首次露面的时候，等待时间最长达到了12个小时。但是，科赫说：“那是在大不列颠。人们喜欢排队。他们跟雨有一种特殊的联系。”
In London, where “Rain Room” was free, the average visit was seven minutes. At MoMA, where admission is $25, some linger for 45 minutes.
在伦敦，“雨屋”是免费的，平均参观时间是7分钟。在MoMA，门票是25美元，有些人停留了45分钟。
Once viewed, the exhibition left many people scratching their heads.
很多看过展览的人对它迷惑不解。
Kirsten Thoft, a 48-year-old architect, echoed the comments of many when she said, “I’m not sure it’s art,” to which her husband, Ted Nadeau, 49, a computer scientist, rejoined, “It’s Facebook-friendly art.”
48岁的建筑师柯尔斯顿·索福特(Kirsten Thoft)的评价跟很多人不谋而合：“我不确定它是艺术。”对此，她的丈夫、49岁的计算机科学家泰德·纳多(Ted Nadeau)回答说：“它是很受Facebook欢迎的艺术。”
“Rain Room” is the latest in a string of interactive, crowd-pleasing art exhibitions in New York, including Tatzu Nishi’s “Discovering Columbus,” for which the monument in Columbus Circle was enclosed in a temporary apartment; Ann Hamilton’s installation last winter with 42 swings at the Park Avenue Armory; and Carsten Höller’s 102-foot slide and water tank in 2011 at the New Museum, where visitors were encouraged to float naked. At MoMA in 2010, people lined up for hours to stare at the performance artist Marina Abramovic from across a table.
“雨屋”是在纽约举办的一系列与观众互动、讨观众喜欢的艺术展览中最新的一个。这个系列包括西野达(Tatzu Nishi)的“发现哥伦布”(Discovering Columbus)，其中哥伦布广场的雕像被一个临时公寓包围；安娜·汉密尔顿(Ann Hamilton)去年冬天在派克大街军械库做的42个秋千装置作品；卡尔森·胡勒(Carsten Höller)2011年在新艺术馆(New Museum)做的102英尺长的滑梯和水箱，鼓励观众在里面裸体漂浮。2010年在MoMA，人们排队等几个小时，就是为了从一张桌子对面凝视表演艺术家玛丽娜·阿布拉莫维奇(Marina Abramovic)。
“The phrase ‘once in a lifetime’ is bandied around in marketing-speak, but in this realm it tends to be true,” said Nicholas Baume, director of the Public Art Fund, which produced “Discovering Columbus.” “None of us will ever have that experience again.”
“‘一生只有一次’这个说法在宣传语中已经被滥用了，但是在这个领域还真是这样，”公共艺术基金的总监尼古拉斯·鲍姆(Nicholas Baume)说。他是“发现哥伦布”的制作人。“我们谁也不会再有这样的经历。”
Last in line on Saturday afternoon were Thea Killeen, 65, and her 16-year-old son, Oliver, who had driven seven hours from their home south of Buffalo.
周六下午排在队伍最后的是65岁的西娅·基林(Thea Killeen)和她16岁的儿子奥利弗(Oliver)。他们从布法罗市南部的家里出发，开车7个小时来到这里。
They got into “Rain Room” just 15 minutes before the exhibit’s closing time of 5:30.
他们在“雨屋”里仅仅待了15分钟，该展览就在5点30分结束了。
Oliver reported that once inside, “I got in trouble for doing a headstand.”
奥利弗说他一到里面，“就因为做了个倒立而惹了麻烦。”