MAUNA LANI REEF, Hawaii — After a long, cold swim in the dark, we spotted it on the night reef with our dive lights: Octopus ornatus, the ornate octopus, a foot-long creature in an amber shade of orange with bright white spots and dashes along all its arms.
夏威夷冒纳拉尼礁——黑夜里，在冰凉的海水中游了许久之后，我们在一处暗礁上借潜水灯的光看到了华丽章鱼(Octopus ornatus)。这条身长约30厘米的章鱼是琥珀橘红色的，每条触手上都布满了明亮的白色斑点和条纹。
It sat stolidly in the light of the camera, 30 feet below the surface, unfazed by the attention. I reached out a finger and it touched me with its suctioned tentacles. When it scuttled in the other direction, I herded it between my cupped hands as it watched me attentively with searching golden eyes.
在水下约10米的地方，它无动于衷地呆在照相机的光线下，对我们的关注泰然自若。我伸出一个手指，它用有吸盘的触手碰了碰我。当它逃向另外一个方向时，我把双手合成杯状将它拢住，它用透彻的金色眼睛聚精会神地看着我。
As if levitating, it smoothly lifted off and tried to jet over my head, but slowly enough that I could catch it gently in midair — like handling a large bird, albeit one with eight sticky tentacles. Holding it at eye level, I looked into its eyes. I felt connected, sort of an octopus whisperer.
它漂浮似地在水中慢慢升起，试图跳过我的头部。但它的动作较慢，我能在它升到一半时，轻轻地抓住它，像是操纵一只大鸟，只不过这只有八个黏黏的触手。我把它拿到与眼睛水平的位置，注视它的眼睛，我觉得与它沟通了，有点象个章鱼语者。
Then a tentacle slapped the front of my mask. The octopus crawled up my arm and vanished into the night.
突然，一条触手打在我的潜水面罩前部。章鱼沿着我的胳膊爬了上去，消失在黑色中。
I’ve been a marine biologist my entire professional life, spending more than 25 years researching the health of corals and sustainability of reefs. I’m captivated by the magic of sessile invertebrates like corals, sponges and sea squirts — creatures vital to the ecosystem yet too often overlooked in favor of more visible animals like sharks and whales.
我的整个职业生涯都从事海洋生物学研究。我花了25年多的时间，研究珊瑚的健康及礁石的可持续性问题。我被固着无脊椎动物的魔力迷住了，这些动物包括珊瑚、海绵、海鞘等，它们对生态系统来说至关重要，却常常被忽视，因为人们喜欢关注更容易看到的动物，比如鲨鱼和鲸。
The filmmaker David O. Brown and I want to change that. To make a documentary, “Fragile Legacy,” we are on a quest to lure these elusive and delicate invertebrates in front of the camera lens.
摄影师戴维·奥·布朗(David O. Brown)和我希望改变这种情况。为了拍摄纪录片《脆弱遗产》(Fragile Legacy)，我们寻找机会把这些难以捉摸的、脆弱的无脊椎动物吸引到摄相机镜头前。
Our inspiration springs from an unlikely source: a collection of 570 superbly wrought, anatomically perfect glass sculptures of marine creatures from the 19th century.
我们的灵感是从一个不太可能的地方冒出来的，来自一套570件19世纪的做工精巧、解剖学上完美的海洋生物玻璃雕塑收藏。
These delicate folds and strands of glass make up the Blaschka collection of glass invertebrates at Cornell, of which I am the curator — enchanting and impossibly rare jellyfishes of the open ocean; more common but equally beautiful octopus, squid, anemones and nudibranchs from British tide pools and Mediterranean shores.
这些用玻璃做的精巧物品组成了康奈尔大学(Cornell)的布拉施卡(Blaschka)玻璃海洋无脊椎动物收藏。我是这些藏品的管理者。藏品中有罕见至极的、迷人深海水母，也有更常见的、但同样美丽的章鱼、乌贼、海葵及海兔，它们来自英国海边的潮汐池和地中海沿岸。
They are the work of an extraordinary father-and-son team, Leopold and Rudolf Blaschka. Leopold Blaschka (1822-95) was a Czech immigrant to Dresden, in what is now Germany; on a trip to America in 1853, his ship was becalmed and he was enchanted by a spectacular display of bioluminescence from a type of jellyfish called a siphonophore.
他们是非凡的父子搭档的作品，父亲是利奥波德·布拉施卡(Leopold Blaschka)，儿子叫鲁道夫·布拉施卡(Rudolf Blaschka)。利奥波德(1822-95)是捷克人，移民到了现属德国的德累斯顿。1853年，在前往美国途中，利奥波德乘的船因风停了不能前行，他被一种属于管水母目动物的水母所发的生物荧光奇妙表演迷住了。
He decided to study the jellyfish more closely and create their likenesses in glass. His first works were a set of anemones for the Dresden Natural History Museum in 1863, inspired by the naturalist Philip Henry Gosse’s “British Sea-Anemones and Corals.”
他决定更仔细地观察这些水母，并用玻璃重塑了它们的样子。他的第一批作品是1863年为德累斯顿自然历史博物馆(Dresden Natural History Museum)制作的一套海葵，灵感来自于自然学家菲利普·亨利·戈斯(Philip Henry Gosse)的《英国海葵及珊瑚》(British Sea-Anemones and Corals)一书。
Leopold’s son, Rudolf (1857-1939), was a keen natural historian in his own right, and an ardent aquarist, or aquarium keeper. He followed his father’s lead, expanding in biodiversity to reach the edges of the animal kingdom. (And beyond: Later they created a comprehensive collection of flowers that is now on display at Harvard.)
利奥波德的儿子鲁道夫(1857-1939)本人是一位敏锐的自然历史学家，也是一位充满热情的水族馆管理人。他在父亲的带领下，扩大了作品的多样性，达到了动物王国的边缘。（而且不止是动物，后来他们创造了一套完整的玻璃花朵收藏，如今陈列在哈佛大学[Harward University]。）
To restore Cornell’s vast collection — bought from the Blaschkas themselves in 1885 — a glassworker, Elizabeth R. Brill, has painstakingly cleaned each piece and glued back fragmented gills and wayward tentacles. The collection is on view at several galleries and the Johnson Museum of Art on the Cornell campus, and restored pieces can be seen in an online gallery.
1885年，康奈尔大学从布拉施卡父子手中收购了现有藏品。为了让这批数量众多的藏品恢复原状，玻璃匠伊丽莎白·R·布里尔(Elizabeth R. Brill)把每一件藏品都清洗干净，把掉下来的鳃和错了位置的触手都粘了回去。这些藏品在康奈尔校园中多个展览馆及约翰逊艺术博物馆(Johnson Museum of Art)展出。恢复了的藏品也能在在线展厅看到。
The marine biodiversity recreated by the Blaschkas is a phantasmagorical view of life in the oceans. For they were artists as well as keen natural historians, with an eye for the forms that would enchant in glass and that were too rare or fragile to be seen readily. They were also superb teachers, eager to share the wonders of nature with students.
布拉施卡父子所创作的多种多样的海洋生物，展现了海洋生命的变幻无常。他们既是艺术家，也是敏锐的自然历史学家，他们独具慧眼，知道哪些形态用玻璃塑造尤为迷人，而这些形态由于非常稀有或脆弱在自然界中不易观察到。同时他们也是极好的老师，热衷于与学生分享自然界的神奇。
Their favorite subjects were the ephemeral, translucent, bright forms of the Cnidaria (anemones, jellyfish, corals), unshelled mollusks (nudibranchs, octopus and squid) and brilliant tentacled worms. Some of their most brilliant creations are of the different species of cephalopods, like the ornate octopus.
他们最喜欢的是具有转瞬即逝、半透明的明亮形体的海洋动物，包括刺胞动物（海葵、水母、珊瑚）、无壳软体动物（海兔、章鱼、鱿鱼），以及那些美丽的有触手的蠕虫。他们最杰出的作品包括头足类动物的不同物种，比如华丽章鱼。
David Brown and I came to Hawaii with the goal of making videos of as many Blaschka cephalopod look-alikes as we could find. Our quest is also to use the Blaschka collection as a time capsule, to take a snapshot of change. How many of these creatures that were so common 150 years ago can still be found today?
我和戴维·布朗来到夏威夷的目的是，拍摄出尽可能多的像布拉施卡头足类动物作品那样的海洋生物录像。我们的目的也是用布拉施卡藏品作为一个历史对比，记录一次变化的瞬间。150年前很常见的那些生物，现在还能找到多少？
The oceans are changing rapidly, with a 30 percent increase in acidity in the last 200 years, lethally stressful warming in many tropical seas, and significant coastal pollution and overfishing just about everywhere. If ever there was a time to compare the plentiful past with an ocean in jeopardy, that time would be now.
海洋在迅速变化。过去200年间，海洋酸度上升了30%；许多热带海域的水温上升，给那里的生物造成致命压力；到处都有严重的沿海污染及过度捕捞的问题。如果有一个合适的时候来比较海洋丰饶的过往与危险的现状的话，现在就是这个时候。
The chances of finding cephalopods are much improved while they are out foraging at night. So we did a series of night reef dives, followed by a “black water” dive three miles off the Kona coast.
夜间是头足类动物出来觅食的时候，那时找到它们的几率大为提高。因此，我们做了多次夜间礁石潜水，还在科那岛三英里以外的作过一次“黑水”潜水。
What I really hoped to see were siphonophores, the creatures that created the mid-Atlantic bioluminescence that so inspired Leopold Blaschka in 1853 and whose models are some of the most intricate in our collection.
我真正希望看到的是管水母目动物，就是1853年在大西洋中发出生物荧光让利奥波德·布拉施克着迷的那种。管水母目动物的模型也属于我们的收藏中最精巧的那类。
For example, the glass model of Apolemia uvaria has the basic form of a siphonophore that I could see before me — the large swimming bell, its powerhouse for fast movement, and the long dangling tentacles — each capped with a deadly harpoon loaded with neurotoxin — that are death traps for all manner of small shrimp and fish.
比如，Apolemia uvaria水母的玻璃模型，具有我现在眼前这个管水母目动物的基本形体：能使其迅速移动的巨大泳钟和长长的摇摆触手，每个触手末端都有充满神经毒素的武器，可以杀死各种小鱼小虾。
And the siphonophores put on quite a show for us, even if they were small and wickedly hard to film. They stretched out those long tentacles, hauling them in rapidly when prey arrived.
尽管这些管水母目动物很小，极难拍摄，但它们着实为我们表演了一番。猎物一靠近，它们就伸出长长的触手，快速地把猎物捕捉过来。
And when they encountered danger, their nervous systems fired a signal to muscles that zipped up the tentacles and powered the swimming bell to high speed. A three-foot-long string of stinging tentacles contracted in a flash to a three-inch stream of jet propulsion. (Somehow, the term “jellyfish” doesn’t capture the extravagant evolution and biology at work here!)
当遇到危险时，它们的神经系统给肌肉发出信号。信号传到触手，给泳钟提供高速的动力。近1米长的刺触手瞬间收缩，成为7个厘米多的喷射推进器。（从某种意义上来说，“水母”这个词不能反映其所具有的丰富的演化和生物奇迹！）
Then I heard an underwater shout from David as he caught a picture of an exquisite tiny octopus zooming past.
就在这时，我听来自戴维的水下叫喊，他拍到了一只迅速经过的、小巧精致的章鱼。
The next stop in our quest is the Mediterranean, ground zero for Blaschka subjects. This month I head to Italy, to the Naples Marine Station, which supplied the glassmakers with many of their live animals.
我们的下一站是地中海，这是布拉施卡创作的发源地。本月，我前往意大利的那不勒斯海洋站(Naples Marine Station)，该站为布拉施卡父子提供了许多活样本。
Perhaps we’ll find exact matches for such spectacular invertebrates as the curly tentacled octopus (Eledone moschata) and the giant siphonophore Apolemia uvaria, which at 20 feet long can dominate a Mediterranean food web. At any rate, we hope to find out whether they are surviving in the sea as magnificently as they do in glass.
也许，我们能找到与那些壮观的无脊椎动物玻璃模型一模一样的生物，比如有卷曲触手的章鱼(Eledone moschata)，以及巨型Apolemia uvaria水母，它长达6米，可统治整个地中海食物网。无论如何，我们希望能够了解到，它们是否还在海洋中壮观地生存着，就像它们的玻璃模型那样美丽永存。