THE National Security Agency scandal has given us Germans a nostalgic summer. How self-assured we have been, especially we journalists, in lambasting the alleged surveillance of our e-mail and phone calls by American spooks. It reminds us how far we’ve come from our various totalitarian pasts — a point of pride as much as humility.
这个夏天，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的丑闻让我们德国人不禁想起了过去。美国情报人员被指对我们的电子邮件和电话进行监控，因此不断受到声讨。在这个过程中，我们，特别是记者们，是那么理直气壮。这个事件让我们意识到，我们从充满各种极权主义的年代已经走了有多远——能到达现在的位置，我们既感到自豪，也同样谦卑。
Throughout the debate, though, I have had a slight feeling of complacency. I don’t deny the dangers in storing huge amounts of data. But we Germans are getting upset for the wrong reasons.
整个争论过程却让我感到一丝得意。我不否认储存大量数据会带来的危险，但我们德国人对此感到烦恼时，却把烦恼的原因搞错了。
The German concern for data protection stems from the early 1980s, when the Federal Constitutional Court ruled that every citizen had the right to know who kept what data on him, particularly the state. As a result, data storage as such — regardless of whether anybody actually reads it — is considered an infringement on civil liberties. Since then we have not really updated our understanding of privacy, despite the advent of the Internet, fiber-optic cables and smartphones.
德国人对于数据保护的担心源于80年代早期，那时联邦宪法法院(Federal Constitutional Court)裁决，每个公民都有权了解谁，特别是国家，掌握有关他的什么数据。结果数据存储本身——无论是否有人真的去读取——都被认为是对公民自由的侵犯。此后我们并没有再更新对于隐私的理解，即便后来互联网、光纤电缆和智能手机大行其道。
Among other things, such obsolescence leaves us unable to communicate our concerns with the United States. If we could find more contemporary explanations for our angst, we would probably find it easier to convince our American friends that it is important to agree on international standards on data protection. Somewhere between German paranoia and American naïveté lies the proper degree of concern. But where?
且不言其他，这样陈旧的观念让我们无法就我们的担忧，与美国进行沟通。如果我们能以更为现代的语言阐释我们的焦虑，也许更容易让我们的美国朋友相信，就数据保护的国际标准达成一致意见很重要。合适的关切度存在于德国的偏执和美国的天真之间，但是到底在哪儿呢？
Put briefly, the traditional German paranoia about personal data goes like this: America and Germany may be democracies, but states can change. The intelligence agencies might one day use their knowledge to identify and intimidate citizens. We remember the Gestapo. We remember the Stasi.
简单地说，传统的德式个人数据偏执表现为：美国和德国或许现在都是民主国家，但国体可能发生变化。也许有一天情报机构会利用他们所了解的信息，来识别和恐吓公民。我们记得盖世太保(Gestapo)。我们记得斯塔西(Stasi)。
The American position, in contrast, holds that while it’s not nice that the N.S.A. taps the world’s communications, the real dangers to liberty today derive from terrorists. What if the intelligence agencies fail again in connecting the dots? Remember 9/11?
美国的立场正相反，认为虽然NSA对全世界的通讯进行监听的行为不好，但是今天恐怖分子才是对自由的真正威胁。要是情报机构还是未能从支离破碎的信息中挖掘出情报，那该怎么办？还记得9·11吗？
Both sides have a flawed view of history. Germans tend to forget that, for more than 60 years, our government has not misused citizens’ data — at least not on a scale that could in any way invoke memories of a totalitarian past. And even if, against all probability, Germany experiences another dictatorship, the government’s knowing about your Facebook friends will be the least of your problems.
双方的历史观都有缺陷。德国人倾向于忘记，在过去60多年间，我们的政府没有滥用过公民数据，至少对数据的使用规模，没有大到勾起我们对极权主义的记忆。即使万一德国再经历一次独裁统治，政府掌握你的Facebook好友，对你而言也是最无关痛痒的问题。
German angst also ignores the fact that the world has moved on: most people no longer feel uncomfortable sharing personal, even private information. In 1983 the West German defense secretary sacked Günter Kiessling, the deputy supreme NATO commander for Europe, because of rumors that Mr. Kiessling was gay; at the time, this was considered a possibility for blackmail. Today, Germany has a gay foreign minister.
德式焦虑的存在也是因为忽视了一个事实，那就是世界已经继续前进了：多数人对于分享个人信息，甚至隐私信息，已经不再感到别扭。1983年西德国防部长免除了北约欧洲联军副总司令君特·基斯林(Günter Kiessling)的职务，因为传闻他是同性恋。当时认为他有可能因此而被敲诈。如今，德国有一个同性恋外交部长。
We have been through what Germans call a Wertewandel: a change in values. The more liberal a society, the more comfortable citizens feel in handling their data. And as more data are shared, the more the individual enjoys the relative protection a fish enjoys in a school.
我们已经经历了德国人所说的Wertewandel，即价值观的转变。一个社会越自由，公民对于处理个人数据感觉就越自在。随着人们分享更多的数据，个人相对而言就会受到越多保护，就像一条鱼在鱼群中那样。
Data collection by American governments appears driven by another kind of misguided angst. “Why can’t we collect all the signals, all the time?” asked Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the N.S.A., in 2008. That’s astonishing to German ears. Not only Barack Obama, but all future presidents, should feel highly uncomfortable about a security apparatus that aspires to omniscience.
美国政府收集数据似乎是出于另一类偏颇的焦虑。“我们为什么不能全时段收集所有的信号呢？”NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)在2008年曾这样问道。德国人听到这样的问题肯定会大吃一惊。一个立志做到无所不知的安全体系应该不仅让贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)，还会让所有未来的总统们都感到非常不舒服吧。
Imagine the next Edward J. Snowden strives not for a global debate on privacy, but simply for money. How many rubles, how many renminbis would certain governments or companies pay for just a snapshot of the N.S.A.’s hard drives?
想像一下，如果下一个爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)不是为了争取全球对隐私权展开讨论，而是为了钱。那么某些政府或公司愿意为区区一张NSA硬盘快照，出多少卢布或人民币呢？
And if data can be stored, it can also be altered. Imagine someone taps the N.S.A. computers, alters certain information and diverts it back into the data stream. What would be the impact of such a breach on, say, high-frequency trading?
而且如果数据可以被存储，那也就可以被改写。想象有人潜入NSA的电脑，对一些信息进行改写后，再将其导回数据流。举例来说，这样的侵入行为对于高频交易，会产生什么样的影响呢？
Finally, we know from the natural sciences that complex systems are often smarter than their individual elements. No ant knows how an anthill works, but all ants profit from the hill. The same is true for the Internet. It is an emergent system that functions so well because it works equally for everybody. No single user is able to control the whole. If this changes, the Internet might cease to offer the greatest benefit for the greatest number but might be directed to bring advantage to a minority — the rulers.
最后，我们通过自然科学了解到，复杂系统经常比单个的元素更加聪明。没有任何一只蚂蚁知道蚁丘如何运转，但所有的蚂蚁都享用蚁丘带来的福利。互联网同理。这个新兴的系统运行良好是因为它对于所有人一视同仁。没有任何一个用户可以一手遮天。但如果这一点发生变化，互联网可能就不再为大多数人提供服务，而是会转向服务少数人——那些统治者。
Could these be starting points for a common understanding on modern, effective data protection? Neither Germans nor Americans hold a monopoly on the best tradition of data collection or protection. Instead, one complements the other. Given both our historical baggage, shouldn’t we start the debate by trying to keep our respective ideologies off the negotiating table?
以上这些能否成为我们就现代而有效的数据保护方式达成共识的起点呢？德国或美国都没有垄断最好的数据收集或保护传统，相反，双方应是互补的。考虑到我们各自的历史包袱，难道我们不应努力搁置各自的意识形态，开始进行探讨吗？