Since opening on Rome’s Via Sistina in 1884, Bulgari has assembled a luxury portfolio that includes watches, accessories, perfumes, skin care and even hotels. Still, bold, colorful jewelry has remained the central force behind the brand’s success. At Bulgari’s Rome headquarters, on a shaded stretch along the Tiber River near Frank Gehry’s Ara Pacis Museum, the company’s creative director, Lucia Silvestri, collaborates with teams of designers and Paolo Bulgari, the company chairman, to create one-of-a-kind and limited collections of rings, earrings, necklaces and bracelets. A single item can take up to two years to complete.
自从1884年在罗马西斯蒂娜街创立以来，宝格丽(Bulgari)一直致力于生产经营各种奢侈品，包括腕表、配饰、香水、护肤品，乃至酒店。不过，鲜明艳丽的珠宝仍是这个品牌成功的核心。距离弗兰克·盖瑞(Frank Gehry)设计的罗马和平祭坛博物馆(Ara Pacis Museum)不远，台伯河畔的一片林荫地带上，坐落着宝格丽的罗马总部，公司创意总监露西亚·斯尔维斯特里(Lucia Silvestri)与设计师团队和公司总裁保罗·宝格丽(Paolo Bulgari)合作，制作限量孤品戒指、耳环、项链与手镯系列。一件首饰可能需要花费两年时间才能完成。
“Color is in Bulgari’s DNA,” Silvestri said. “We don’t care if orange isn’t in fashion this season. We focus on the character and quality of what we design and assemble, and most of that process begins in this room.” At the center of the room in question was a long table with a soft suede inlay, where Silvestri does most of her work. It is typically buried under pencil sketches and prints of potential necklace designs, which sit under twinkling confections made of some of the most precious materials in the world.
“色彩蕴含在宝格丽的DNA中，”斯尔维斯特里说。“我们不关心本季是不是流行橙色，我们只关注设计和生产的个性与质量，大多数设计和生产的过程都始于这个房间。”她所说的这个房间中心是一张长桌，镶嵌着柔软的羊皮，斯尔维斯特里就在这张桌前工作。桌上和往常一样，堆满项链设计的铅笔草稿和印刷品，上面压着闪闪发亮的精致物品，均是以世界上最贵重的材料制成。
Silvestri spends weeks on the road looking for gems Bulgari can use. Her influence on suppliers is enormous. In 2010, she came across a 165-carat sapphire in Hong Kong. She told the supplier that it lacked spirit and wasn’t cut properly. Several months later, she found the same sapphire in Sri Lanka. The supplier had recut it according to her recommendations. Another time in Jaipur, in northern India, she was shown 25 walnut-size emeralds that she thought were too dark. She wanted them all cut in half to add lightness. The supplier was concerned that the delicate gems might splinter and lose value. A year later, she saw him again in New York on a separate matter. “Oh, I almost forgot to show you something,” he said, and presented her with the 25 Jaipur emeralds, now cut into perfect halves.
斯尔维斯特里会一连数周外出寻找供宝格丽使用的宝石。她对供应商的影响力十分巨大。2010年，她在香港看到一块165克拉的蓝宝石。她对供应商说，这块宝石缺乏灵魂，切割也不恰当。数月之后，她在斯里兰卡与这块蓝宝石再度相遇，供应商按照她的建议进行了重新切割。还有一次，在印度北部的斋普尔，有人给她看了25块核桃大小的祖母绿，她认为它们颜色太暗，希望全部切半并增加亮度。供应商当时担心这样会令精美的宝石碎裂贬值。一年后，她在纽约办另一件事时又遇到了这位供应商。“啊，我差点忘了给你看点东西，”他拿出那25块斋普尔祖母绿，它们已被切成完美的两半。
Silvestri, who prefers irregular or rounded gems, will spend months experimenting with color combinations and swapping jades for emeralds or amethysts for blueberry-size citrine gemstones, until she is happy with the tone, weight, length and design of each piece. She shares the building with a design team that weighs each stone and pairs it with the platinum, gold or silver link, clasp or claw that will allow the finished piece to drape well on the body. After approving the stone for quality, an on-site gemological team passes it and its metallic companion, along with a final design record, to Bulgari’s laboratory team.
斯尔维斯特里喜欢不规则形状或圆形的宝石，她常常花费数月时间实验色彩的组合，用玉石替换祖母绿、用紫水晶替换蓝莓大小的黄水晶，直到对每件设计品的色调、重量、长度和设计都感到满意。总部里还有一支设计团队，负责为每块宝石称重，把它们与白金、黄金或白银链子、环扣和挂钩搭配起来，让成品可以妥帖地挂在身体上。宝石的质量经核准后，一个现场工作的宝石小组会把它和金属配件，以及一份最终设计纪录交给宝格丽的实验团队。
The laboratory is an intentionally plain, well-hidden building off the busy Via Aurelia just outside of Rome. A team of 24 artists, including experts in metal setting and casting, work out how the weights and volumes of metals and gems should be balanced, so that each piece will capture light and move sinuously. The sound of files shaving down precious metals is constant, like the hum of cicadas in the summertime.
这个实验团队坐落在罗马郊外的奥蕾莉亚街，是一栋刻意平凡隐蔽的建筑。团队中有24位艺术家，包括金属镶嵌与铸造专家，他们研究金属的重量与体积如何与宝石平衡，令每件首饰都能捕捉光线，摇曳生姿。锉磨贵重金属的声音时时响起，如同夏日里的蝉鸣。
“If you said, ‘Make me a necklace with purple and yellow quartz, light emeralds, brilliant rubies and citron gems,’ some designers might tell you, ‘Yuck!’,” said Amanda Troissi, Bulgari’s jewelry historian. “But Bulgari knows how to work with colors, almost as if we were master painters.” The intricacies of that process are illuminated above, in this exclusive behind-the-scenes slide show.
“如果你说‘用紫水晶、黄水晶，浅祖母绿，亮红宝石和柠黄宝石给我做一条项链’，这里的设计师就会答道：‘没问题！’”宝格丽的珠宝历史学家阿曼达·特罗伊西(Amanda Troissi)说。“宝格丽知道该怎样搭配色彩，我们就像大画家一样。”我们在本文中已经看到这个过程有多么复杂，请在幻灯片中欣赏独家幕后场面。