When fashion’s Old World specialty ateliers were on the verge of extinction, Chanel came to the rescue. Now it’s ushering them into the future.“It’s like we moved from the 19th century to the 21st century in 24 hours,” says Hubert Barrère, the artistic director of Lesage, the famed embroidery house. “From Zola to Tron overnight!” Barrère is standing in the 89-year-old company’s airy new studio in a modern building in Pantin, a scruffy northeastern suburb of Paris. Recently, Chanel moved Lesage and a few of the other traditional specialty handcraft ateliers it has quietly purchased over the last 17 years to the Pantin complex to have them in one place, working in concert.
当时装界的古老专业手工作坊濒临灭绝时，香奈尔(Chanel)曾伸出援手。现在它引领它们走向未来。“我们像是在24小时内从19世纪搬到了21世纪，”著名刺绣公司Lesage的艺术总监休伯特·巴尔(Hubert Barrère)说，“一夜之间从左拉的世界来到了《电子世界争霸战》(Tron)的世界！”巴尔站在这家有89年历史的公司宽敞的新工作室，它位于巴黎东北部破旧的潘廷区的一个现代建筑里。香奈尔在过去17年里悄悄买下了Lesage和其他几家传统专业手工作坊，最近把它们搬到了潘廷区的这个建筑群，让它们在同一个地方协力合作。
For nearly a century, or more, these various houses — including Lemarié, specializing in feathers and flower making; Goossens, the famed jewelry makers; and Maison Michel, the hat makers — were run by their founders or family members. But as the last generation found no heirs to lead them into the future and with fashion becoming faster and more industrialized, these ateliers were on the verge of extinction.
这些公司的业务各不相同，包括专做羽毛和花朵的Lemarié公司，著名珠宝制造商Goossens，以及帽子制作商Maison Michel。在过去大约一个世纪里，这些公司都是由自己的创始人或其家庭成员经营。但是这些公司的最后一代发现没有子嗣可以带领公司走向未来，而时装业变得更快、更工业化，所以它们濒临灭亡。
Chanel executives understood that if these houses shuttered, the loss of skills and the institutional knowledge of their artisans could decimate couture — and in turn, damage the entire fashion industry. Today, there are few people who can precisely sew delicate sequin daisies onto black chiffon, weave pink ostrich plumes into a cashmere-soft swath or turn stiff organza into camellia blooms, as a few artisans did in the days leading up to the recent Paris fashion shows.Before the move, most of the ateliers were located in their original 19th- or early-20th-century Paris workshops, which, as Barrère notes, “was wonderful and with so much charm, but charm is charming for only so long. Now we have space and light” ­— a necessity, he says, for this type of precise, handcrafted work. Each house also has space for new archive rooms that store decades’ worth of antique patterns, buttons and swatches.
香奈尔的管理者们明白，如果这些公司关门，那里的手工艺人们的技艺和专业知识将丢失，那将严重削弱高级定制服装业，进而损害整个服装业。如今已经没有几个人能像最近巴黎时装秀上几位手艺人那样，精密地在黑色雪纺绸上绣出精美的亮片雏菊，把粉色鸵鸟毛织成羊绒般柔软的面料，或者把坚硬的欧根纱做成山茶花。搬家之前，这些公司大多位于它们在19世纪或20世纪初开业的巴黎作坊里，就像巴尔说的，那些地方“很美妙，很有魅力，但是它的魅力也就到此为止了。现在我们有了空间和光线。”他说对这种精细的手工活来说，空间和光线是必需的。每个公司还设立了新的档案室，存储有几十年历史的古董图案、纽扣和样本。
The original acquisition of the artisan houses was “somewhat egoist on our part,” admits Bruno Pavlovsky, Chanel’s president of fashion. “We gave them a lot of business.” Though Chanel established a subsidiary called Paraffection (“with affection”) to group the ateliers together, the company does not keep them all to itself — quite the contrary. Luxury brands like Christian Dior, Louis Vuitton and Valentino regularly commission the ateliers for specialty work.
香奈尔的时装总裁布鲁诺·洛夫斯基(Bruno Pavlovsky)承认，购买这些公司的初衷“多少有些利己主义”。他还说，“我们给了它们很多生意。”虽然香奈尔设立了一个名叫Paraffection（意为“充满爱意”）的子公司，把这些公司集合到一起，但是香奈尔并不独享这些公司。正相反，像迪奥(Dior)、路易威登(Louis Vuitton)和华伦天奴(Valentino)等奢侈品牌定期把一些专业工作交给这些公司来做。
In addition, each year, Chanel hosts a special fashion show, Métiers d’Art, in a different city — next month it will be in Dallas — to spotlight the artisans’ work. Karl Lagerfeld attends, along with representatives from the houses, who explain to the guests the beauty and rarity of the craftsmanship. While the charm of the traditional workshops may indeed be lost, the artistry of the work has been secured for the future.
另外，香奈尔每年在不同的城市举办一场特殊的时装秀，名叫“艺术工艺”(Métiers d’Art)，让公众关注这些手工艺人的工作。12月在达拉斯举办。每次卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)都会参加，这些公司的代表也会参加，给观众们解释这些工艺的美丽和罕见之处。虽然传统工坊的魅力可能真的消失了，但是这种工作的艺术性在未来得到了保证。