Chicago — NOW that the dust is settling from the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, which recognized a right to same-sex marriage, there are new questions. In particular, could the decision presage a constitutional right to plural marriage? If there is no magic power in opposite sexes when it comes to marriage, is there any magic power in the number two?
芝加哥——美国最高法院对奥贝格费尔诉霍奇斯案(Obergefell v. Hodges)的判决，承认了同性婚姻的权利，如今，判决的势态正在明朗，也出现了新问题。具体地说，这一决定是否预示着宪法会赋予涉及两人以上婚姻的权利？如果在婚姻上，双方为异性不具有神奇力量的话，那么“双”这个数字具有神奇力量吗？
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.’s dissent in Obergefell raised this very question, intending to show how radical the majority’s decision could become. But the issue was hard to discuss candidly while same-sex marriage was still pending, because both sides knew that association with plural marriage, a more unpopular cause, could have stymied progress for gay rights. (Opponents of same-sex marriage had reasons to emphasize the association, while supporters had reasons to play it down.) With same-sex marriage on the books, we can now ask whether polyamorous relationships should be next.
首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)在对奥贝格费尔案的异议中就提出了这个问题，他的目的是向支持赋权判决的多数人显示，他们的决定可能是多么激进。但在同性婚姻的合法性仍悬而未决时，很难坦诚地讨论这个问题，因为人们都知道，涉及多角的婚姻相对来说更不得人心，将这个问题与同性婚姻联系起来，可能阻碍为同性恋争取权利的进步。（同性婚姻的反对者有理由强调这种联系，而同性婚姻的支持者有理由将其淡化。）随着同性婚姻得到法律承认，我们现在可以问一下，下一步是否应该是多角相爱关系。
There is a very good argument that they should. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s majority opinion in Obergefell did not focus primarily on the issue of sexual orientation. Instead, its main focus was on a “fundamental right to marry” — a right that he said could not be limited to rigid historical definitions or left to the legislative process. That right was about autonomy and fulfillment, about child rearing and the social order. By those lights, groups of adults who have profound polyamorous attachments and wish to build families and join the community have a strong claim to a right to marry.
有认为这种关系应该合法的很好的理由。大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)在奥贝格费尔案判决书的多数意见中，并没有将焦点集中在性取向问题上。反之，多数意见的主要焦点是在“婚姻作为基本权利”的问题，他说，这种权利不能由于僵硬的历史定义而受到限制，或留给立法程序。这种权利事关人的自主权与满足感，事关养育子女和社会秩序。按照这些标准，那些陷入深度多角恋爱关系、希望建立家庭和参与社会的成年人群体，也有很强的要求结婚的权利。
And while Justice Kennedy’s opinion does not explicitly discuss this possibility, it is easy to see how future generations could read his language to include polyamory or plural marriage. Earlier court decisions about marriage, Justice Kennedy wrote, had “presumed a relationship involving opposite-sex partners,” but now we understand that the presumption was wrong. Similarly, while Justice Kennedy’s opinion repeatedly presumes that marriage involves two people, it is not hard to imagine another justice in 20 or 40 years saying that the assumption is similarly unenlightened. (It is even conceivable that Justice Kennedy himself anticipated that possibility.)
虽然肯尼迪大法官的意见并没有明确讨论这种可能性，但不难看出后人会怎样把他的语言解释为包括多角恋或多角婚姻。肯尼迪大法官写道，法院此前对婚姻的判决曾“假定其为涉及异性伙伴的关系”，但现在我们知道这一假设是错误的。类似地，虽然肯尼迪大法官的书面意见反复假定婚姻涉及到两个人，但不难想象在20年或40年后，另一位大法官会说，那个假设同样是不开明的。（甚至可以想象肯尼迪大法官本人已预料到了这种可能性。）
Nonetheless, many supporters of the same-sex marriage decision reject the possibility of plural marriage with surprising confidence. Writing in Slate after the decision in Obergefell, Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit rejected a right to plural marriage because it would lead to gender imbalances if “the five wealthiest men have a total of 50 wives.” Similarly, the same-sex marriage advocate Jonathan Rauch has argued that polygamy allows “high-status men to hoard wives” and destabilizes society.
尽管如此，许多支持同性婚姻决定的人以惊人的信心否认多角婚姻的可能性。奥贝格费尔案判决出来后，美国联邦第七巡回上诉法院的法官理查德·A·波斯纳(Richard A. Posner)在《Slate》杂志上撰文，拒绝接受多角婚姻的权利，因为如果“五名最富有的男人总共拥有50个妻子”的话，那会导致性别失衡。类似地，同性婚姻倡导者乔纳森·劳赫(Jonathan Rauch)辩称，一夫多妻制允许“高地位的男人囤积妻子”，会导致社会动荡。
Gender equality is of course a serious concern. But the arguments above rest on the assumption that plural marriage will involve only one man and multiple women. That assumption is weak. Plural relationships could well be (and in some circles today are) between multiple people of both sexes, not all of whom are strictly heterosexual.
性别平等当然是一个严重的问题。但上述论点的假设是，多角婚姻将涉及一名男子和多名女子。这个假设有点站不住脚。多角关系很可能是（在如今某些圈子里已经是）多名男子和多名女子的关系，而且所涉及的人不一定都是严格的异性恋者。
True, most past episodes of plural marriage have been patriarchal. But the lesson of the same-sex marriage case is that we should not be too wedded to historical assumptions. It was not that long ago that many people held vicious stereotypes about same-sex relationships that led them to wrongly assume that gay people were unfit for marriage. We should not make the same mistake in assuming we know what plural marriages in the future would be like.
诚然，过去的大多数多角婚姻是男性为主导的。但这次对同性婚姻案的判决教给我们的是，我们不应该过于坚持历史假设。不就是在不久以前，还有许多人对同性关系持充满仇恨的刻板印象，以至于他们错误地假设，同性恋者都不适合结婚吗。我们不应该再犯下同样的错误，坚持假设我们知道未来的多角婚姻会是什么样子。
To be sure, there are many potentially sound legal arguments against plural marriage. It might be administratively difficult to modify some of our marital laws, currently designed for pairs of people, to handle larger numbers of spouses. And if one thinks that the well-being of children can justify restricting marriage rights, it is possible that plural marriages could present difficulties. On the other hand, it may turn out that plural marriages are very good for children, because more adults are available to share the physical, financial and emotional demands of caring for them. If so, maybe any administrative difficulties will seem minor in comparison.
可以肯定地说，有许多反对多角婚姻的潜在可靠的法律论据。由于目前的婚姻法律是为一对人设计的，也许从行政的角度来看，很难修改我们现行的一些法律，让其能应对大的配偶数目。而且，如果我们认为，可以用儿童福祉作为限制婚姻权利的理由的话，那么多角婚姻可能会带来困难。从另一方面来看，多角婚姻也许会对孩子很有利，因为会有更多的成年人来分享照顾孩子所需的体力、财物和感情的要求。如果是这样的话，也许任何行政上的困难相比之下都会显得是次要的。
The deeper point is that we should remember that today’s showstopping objections sometimes come to seem trivial decades later. Very few people supported a constitutional right to same-sex marriage when writers like Andrew Sullivan and Mr. Rauch were advocating it only two decades ago. (Judge Posner, for example, did not.) As we witness more experiments with non-nuclear families, our views about plural marriage might change as well. As Justice Kennedy put it, “The nature of injustice is that we may not always see it in our own times.”
更深层次的问题是，我们应该记住，如今不可克服的反对，有时在十年后会显得微不足道。二十年前，当安德鲁·沙利文(Andrew Sullivan)和劳赫等作家写文章倡导同性婚姻权利的时候，很少有人支持宪法赋予这种婚姻权利的观念。（比如波斯纳法官就不支持。）随着我们看到更多的非核心家庭实验，我们对多角婚姻的看法可能会改变。正如肯尼迪大法官所言，“不公正的本质是，在我们自身所在的时代，我们也许并不总会看到这个问题。”
So the real force of the polygamy question is a lesson in humility. We should not assume that our judges have all the answers. And we should not assume we have them either. Instead we should recognize that once we abandon the rigid constraints of history, we cannot be sure that we know where the future will take us.
所以，一夫多妻制问题的真正力量是，它教人谦虚。我们不应该假设我们的法官有所有的答案。我们也不应该假设我们有所有的答案。相反，我们应该认识到，一旦我们抛弃历史的僵硬约束，我们不能肯定我们知道未来将带给我们什么。