Public speaking can give you the willies. Even the most seasoned speakers worry that they will be exposed as frauds, or purvey all the narrative excitement of televised fishing. They worry that they will have to refer by name to Turkmenistan’s president, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow.
在公共场合发言会让很多人紧张不已。即使是最有经验的演讲者，也会担心被听众们看穿他们不过是哗众取宠的骗子；他们担心自己言辞沉闷无趣，犹如电视上的钓鱼节目；他们还担心自己口齿不够清楚，如果要提起土库曼斯坦总统那复杂的名字——库尔班古力·别尔德穆哈梅多夫(Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow)——会乱成一团。
So when an acquaintance asked me recently why I had joined Toastmasters, the 292,000-member international organization that lets people practice giving speeches to one another, I told him I was hoping to reduce terror by putting myself in terror’s path as often as possible. He applauded this idea and asked how it was going. “Pretty well,” I said. “My heart has hammered a lot, but I haven’t passed out yet or tasted my own bile.”
所以，当一位熟人最近问起我为什么加入“国际演讲会”时，我告诉他我希望让自己饱经演讲考验，今后在公众场合演讲就吓不倒我了。“国际演讲会”是一个有着29.2万名成员的国际组织，成员们互相练习演讲。这位熟人对我的想法大加赞赏，并问我进展如何。“非常好，”我回答说：“我的心脏受了不少惊吓，但是还没有晕倒过，也没有被吓得呕吐过。”
“So: Looking good!”
“这么说，还不错！”
Now that we can watch TED talks on Netflix and on airplanes, it seems a lot more of us are looking to enthrall the masses via the deadly cocktail of homily and headset. Before she gave a February 2012 TED talk about introverts that would generate more than five million views online, Susan Cain, the author of “Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking,” joined Toastmasters; on her website, Ms. Cain encourages all aspiring public speakers to follow suit.
在当今这个时代，我们随时可以在Netflix上，甚至在飞机上收看TED演讲。我们中越来越多的人似乎都想利用长篇说教和耳机这一无往不胜的组合来魅惑大众。苏珊·凯恩(Susan Cain)是《安静：内向者在这个呱噪不安的世界中的力量》(Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can’t Stop Talking)一书的作者。2012年二月，她在TED发表的关于内向者的演讲，在网上被点击观看了500多万次。在这次讲话之前，她加入了国际演讲会。在她的个人网站上，凯恩鼓励跃跃欲试的公众演讲者们向她自己学习。
The 89-year-old Toastmasters is the granddaddy of beard-tugging and business-card-swapping, long predating stalwarts of the seminars industry like the World Economic Forum and Renaissance Weekends.
国际演讲会已有89年历史，是故作老成和交换名片方面的老祖宗。如今名贯全球的“世界经济论坛”和“文艺复兴周末”等高端论坛，也要拜它为业界鼻祖。
I started with a Google search, which yielded more than 10 Toastmasters groups in the New York City area, including ones named EZ Speakers and Speak Up Bay Ridge. I chose New York Toastmasters, which meets Mondays from 6:30 to 8 p.m. at the charmingly dowdy Soldiers’, Sailors’, Marines’, Coast Guard and Airmen’s Club on Lexington Avenue between 36th and 37th Streets. Here I found about 30 people, most of them either foreign-born or in business attire, mingling in a 700-square-foot parlor dotted with chintz and portraits of military heroes — as if your 15-year college reunion were held by your eccentric aunt.
我是从Google搜索开始我的入会历程的。搜索结果显示在纽约市就有十多个“国际演讲会”分会。EZ Speaker和Speak Up Bay Ridge是其中两个。我选择了“纽约国际演讲会”。成员们每周一晚上六点半到八点在莱克辛顿大道位于36街和37街之间路段上那家“士兵、水手、海军陆战队员、海岸护卫队员、飞行员俱乐部”会面。这天晚上，有大概30人聚集在俱乐部将近70平米的门厅里。互相寒暄之后，我发现他们之中大多数人都出生在国外，或是身穿商务套装。房间里到处都是印花布装饰和战斗英雄的画像。这气氛就好像你的古怪姨妈在你大学毕业15年后，为你举办的老校友聚会。
Upon mingling, I learned that many of the people in the room were hoping to conquer their fear of public speaking, either for personal or professional reasons. One woman was preparing for an appearance on QVC in which she would be promoting a toy she had invented. Most of the group seemed shy and skittish, but a few of the men had the willed steeliness of the motivational speaker or serial killer.
在互相介绍之后，我了解到这里的许多人都是出于个人或职业的原因希望战胜在公共场合发言的恐惧感。一位女士即将在QVC电视频道上露面推销她发明的一种玩具。房间里的大多数人都显得羞怯紧张。但有几位男士表露出了只有励志演说家或连环杀手才有的那种强自镇定的坚毅神情。
Toastmasters meetings, which are free and open to the public, have two parts. In the shorter part, called Table Topics, a member directs questions about a topic of his choice (e.g., travel or sports) to specific people in the audience, who must stand in front of the group and answer the question extemporaneously for one to two minutes. In the longer part of the meeting, members give four- to seven-minute prepared speeches on topics prompted by suggestions from the Toastmasters workbooks and are evaluated by other members. Everyone who speaks is watched over by a grammarian who, at the end of the meeting, tells you how many ums and ahs and “filler words” you used (sample evaluation: “Steve is totally clean”).
国际演讲会的聚会是向公众免费开放的。每次聚会都由两部分组成。时长较短的第一部分叫“餐桌话题”，由一位会员指定一个话题（比如旅游、体育）向听众提问。被叫到回答问题的人必须站在听众前，即兴给出一到两分钟的回答。时长较长的第二部分是由会员们轮流做一个四到七分钟的事先准备好的发言。发言题目从“国际演讲会”手册中选取并经过会员们的核准。有一位“语法裁判”观察每一位会员的发言。在聚会结束时，“语法裁判”会告诉发言者他在讲话中用了多少“嗯”“呃”这样的“填充词”。（比如：“斯蒂夫完全没用这些词”）。
The meetings start with each of the guests’ standing and saying why they are in attendance. At my first meeting I said: “I want to work on my pre-speech nervousness. I have a lot of jitteriness and gastrointestinal pageantry.” At the second I said, “I’m, uh, a grammarian’s worst nightmare.” Would I be called on for Table Topics? That was my chief anxiety during those first two meetings — an anxiety that burst into Technicolor glory at my third meeting, when indeed I was.
聚会开始时，每一位来宾都要站起来告诉大家来此的目的。在我的第一次聚会上，我说：“我想克服发言前的紧张情绪。我总是放松不下来，好像有东西在我肚子里七上八下。”第二次的聚会我是这么说的：“我……呃……我就是一个语法裁判的噩梦。”如果我被叫到回答“餐桌话题”该怎么办？在前两次聚会上，这就是最让我紧张的事。第三次聚会，我真的被叫到了，我的紧张情绪却瞬间爆发为夸张的表演。
The Table Topics host that night, a droll Brit in his 40s, had a bag full of objects, and the five of us called to the stage were to reach in, take one and talk about it. I seized a champagne glass and discoursed somewhat frantically about how champagne, whose effect sneaks up on me, is “my demon beverage” and how I’d rather drink a liquor that will “slap me across the face.” At the end of the meeting I was awarded a ribbon for best Table Topics speaker, as voted on by the audience.
那天晚上的“餐桌话题”部分由一位滑稽的40多岁的英国人主持。他带来了一口袋东西。被叫上台的五个人被要求从袋子里摸出一样东西，然后就它讲一段话。我摸到的是一个香槟酒杯。于是我几乎有点过于激动地讲了自己如何不胜香槟的酒力。我告诉听众香槟是我的“恶魔饮料”，我情愿喝烈酒，哪怕喝下去的感觉就好像“脸上被抽了一个耳光”。聚会结束时，我得到了一条绶带——我是听众们选出的那天晚上的“最佳餐桌话题发言者”。
Awash in the kind of utterly blithe self-involvement that can only come from having your alcoholic tendencies beribboned, I ponied up $187 and joined New York Toastmasters. As a member, I would now be able to give prepared speeches, and I would be mailed two workbooks. I thought, “If Malcolm Gladwell can get $80,000 for a speech and David Sedaris can sell out Carnegie Hall, maybe there’s some love out there for me, too.” I thought, “I have big eyebrows like Mark Twain and Hal Holbrook.” I thought, “Who is TED?”
自己的饮酒偏好得到认可，这让我沉浸在一种洋洋自得的参与感之中。我掏出了187美元的会费，加入了“纽约国际演讲会”。做为正式会员，我可以参与事先准备发言的环节，我也会通过邮局得到两本手册。我想：“如果马尔科姆·格莱德威尔（Malcolm Gladwell，畅销书作者）做一次发言能拿到八万美元的报酬，大卫·斯戴利斯（David Sedaris，美国幽默作家）能让卡耐基大厅座无虚席，没准也会有人喜欢听我讲话。”我告诉自己我有跟马克·吐温(Mark Twain)和哈尔·赫尔布鲁克（Hal Holbrook，美国演员）一样的浓眉。我还对自己说：“TED算什么？”
Having thoroughly rehearsed my first prepared speech — a getting-to-know-you affair called an Icebreaker — I showed up at my fifth meeting tingly with dread. Jennifer Lackie, the group’s friendly, 30-something vice president of education, who had smiled at my “gastrointestinal pageantry” comment, asked me how I was feeling. I said, “Kind of floaty.” My trapezius muscle felt like a guy-wire on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge; my mind was taking inventory of every fluid in my body and its flow rate. It is commonly said that a nervous speaker should imagine his audience members sitting on toilets, but any time I imagine a new acquaintance on a commode, a voice in my head screams, “Too soon!”
第一个事先准备发言的题目是“破冰发言”，其实就是一个自我介绍。精心准备后，我忐忑不安地来到了我的第五次聚会。詹妮弗·莱基(Jennifer Lackie)是我们这个分会的教育副主席。她30多岁，十分友善。我的“肚子里七上八下”曾博得她一笑。她问我感觉如何。我说我觉得有点“不知所措”。我的斜方肌绷得就像是维拉扎诺大桥的拉索；我的思绪关注着身体里的种种体液，并记录着它们的流速。一种流行的说法是，紧张的发言者应该假想自己的听众都坐在马桶上。可是我只要这么想像一位新交，我的脑子里立刻就会有一个声音尖叫说：“你们还没熟到那个程度！”
Some 10 minutes later, my anxiety about my Icebreaker having reached its craggy peak, I was surprised to be called on to give a Table Topics speech about birthday cake. This sudden curveball was strangely not scary to me, as though I had been preparing to perform my first lobotomy but was asked to apply a tourniquet first. Done. Over.
大约十分钟后，我对发言的紧张感达到了巅峰。可就在这时，我出乎意料地被叫到做一个餐桌话题发言，题目是生日蛋糕。奇怪的是这一突然袭击并没有吓到我。这就好像是我一直在准备做一例前脑叶白质切除术，却在做手术前被要求打个止血绷带。小菜一碟。拿下。
Twenty minutes later, I gave my Icebreaker, which was mostly about the talks I’ve given in bookstores and lecture halls in my capacity as an author. (“The worst place to give a talk,” I said, “is in a bookstore with a loud P.A. system, a spitty cappuccino machine and a couple in the front row who are going through a difficult breakup.”) I got a few laughs, but I was conscious of not moving around the stage area and of repeatedly making palsied hand gestures that were exactly midpoint on the Noh theater/A.S.L. continuum.
二十分钟后，我做了我的“破冰发言”，主要讲述我作为一名作家，此前在书店和学校讲堂里做过的种种演讲。（“做演讲最糟糕的地方，”我说，“莫过于有着嘈杂的室内广播和滋滋作响奶泡咖啡机的书店，而第一排的听众中还有那么一对将要大闹分手的恋人。”）我赢得了几阵笑声，但我也意识到自己在台上走动不够频繁，并且不停地以发抖的双手做出介于日本能剧和手语之前的奇怪手势。
It is with some embarrassment that I tell that, upon sitting, I worried about the awkwardness that might ensue should I win ribbons for best Table Topics speech and best prepared speech on the same night. But I won neither ribbon, my prepared speech losing not, as I had expected, to a heart-rending account of growing up in an orphanage in Seoul, but rather to one containing the immortal line, “Fellow Toastmasters and honored guests, I’m here to talk to you about the importance of estate planning.” The audience’s written feedback about my speech, though mostly positive, included “I didn’t hear much organization” and the devastating “You always sound so loud and clear.” One person’s sole comment was the cryptic “Wants to do what?”
惭愧地说，当我坐下时，我还在担心如果自己自己赢得了最佳“餐桌话题”和“预先准备演讲”的两条绶带，会感到多不自在。但我一条也没得到。我原本以为，自己准备的演讲可能敌不过另一位会员讲述自己在首尔一家孤儿院长大的催人泪下的故事，但赢得第一名的居然是这样一个演讲：“亲爱的演讲会会员们，尊敬的来宾们，我今天要跟你们谈谈安排遗产的重要性。”听众们给我的演讲做出的书面评价多数都还比较正面，但也包括这样一些批评：“我没听出什么结构”；还有这条让人伤心不已的“你总是那么大嗓门，口齿清晰”，还有一个人只写了一句让人捉摸不透的“想干什么？”
Days later, an important thing happened. I was asked by a retirement home in Salisbury, Conn., called Noble Horizons to give a talk in a month’s time about a book I had written on the wisdom of the elderly, and I realized that the best way to make this talk go smoothly was to throw myself into the Toastmasters line of fire as much as possible beforehand. Adding the meetings of two other Toastmasters groups in Manhattan to my roster, I proceeded to go to 13 sessions before my speaking gig in Connecticut.
几天后，发生了一件重要的事。康涅狄格州萨里斯伯里市一家名为“富贵地平线”的养老院请我在一个月之后去演讲，题目是我写的一本关于老年人的智慧的书。而我意识到，让这次演讲获得成功的最佳途径就是经受国际演讲会的最强的考验。我参加了曼哈顿另外两家国际演讲会分会的活动，要在去养老院发表演讲之前参加13次聚会。
The first seven or eight times that I sat in an audience and wondered if I would be called up for Table Topics, I was darty-eyed, jittery, slightly damp. But by the ninth or 10th meeting, I actually wanted to be called on: the suspense was worse than the actuality. At the last three meetings, I actively lobbied to be asked to speak, showing up early to chat up the Table Topics hosts, oozing a targeted and highly unctuous bonhomie that threatened to stain slipcovers.
前七八次聚会，我坐在听众席上，仍旧害怕被叫到回答“餐桌话题”。我眼神畏缩，坐立不安，微微出汗。但到了第九次，第十次，我倒希望自己被叫到：那种悬念比演讲的现实更让人受不了。最后三次聚会，我自告奋勇要求讲话，早早来到会场与“餐桌话题”的主持人搭讪，浑身散发着有的放矢的谄媚气质，几乎要浸透我的毛背心。
Over time, I grew slightly weary of the Toastmasters speech formula: Tell the audience that you’ll be talking about (say, earlobes, uvulas and toe webbing); then talk about earlobes, uvulas and toe webbing; then announce that you have just talked about earlobes, uvulas and toe webbing. It’s a scheme so rich with repeated motifs that I have nicknamed it Philip Glass.
随着时间推移，我对国际演讲会的发言模式感到厌倦了：先是告诉你的听众你要讲什么（比如耳垂，小舌头和脚趾间的蹼状物），然后你开讲耳垂、小舌头和脚蹼；最后向听众宣布你刚刚讲了耳垂、小舌头和脚蹼。这个模式充斥着不停重现的主题，我甚至给它起了个外号“菲利普·格拉斯”（Philip Glass，美国当代著名作曲家，简约主义风格的代表人物之一）。
But I loved my fellow Toastmasters. Indeed, I had made something of a mission of talking to them. I recently remembered reading that Sigmund Freud, before coming to the United States in 1909, told colleagues that he was going to America to find a porcupine and to give some lectures. He explained that, when faced with a nervous-making task, you can reduce your anxiety by deflecting your attention to a second, less important task. “To find one’s porcupine” became a saying in Dr. Freud’s circle.
但我实在喜欢我的演讲会同学们。我把跟他们聊天当做自己的任务。我最近想起，曾经度过有关西格蒙德·弗洛伊德(Sigmund Freud)的一段轶事：在1909年来到美国之前，他曾对自己的同事说，他来美国是为了两件事：找到一只豪猪，发表几个演讲。他解释说，面对一项让人紧张的任务时，你可以通过把注意力转向一个次要的任务来缓解自己的紧张情绪。于是，“找豪猪”成了弗洛伊德博士社交圈里的口头禅。
So, to alleviate my anxiety at Toastmasters meetings, I stopped torturing myself with “Will I be called on for Table Topics?” and started focusing instead on the porcupine of trying to chat up my fellow Toastmasters. When I asked an impish Frenchman why he had joined four Toastmasters groups in an effort to lose his highly charming accent, he told me sheepishly, “Recently, one speaker was reading his speech off pieces of paper, and apparently I told him, ‘Lose your nuts.’ ”
于是，为了缓解我自己在演讲会聚会上的紧张情绪，我也不再用“如果我被叫到回答餐桌话题怎么办”这样的问题来折磨自己，开始找“豪猪”——与演讲会的同学们聊天。当我问起一位俏皮的法国男士，他为什么要加入多达四个演讲会分会，试图改掉自己那迷人的法国口音，他回答说：“最近有一次，一位发言人在读稿演讲，我则对他说：‘丢掉你的睾丸（笔记）吧。’”
At another meeting, asked by the Table Topics host to use the word “redolent” while speaking about pets or the environment, I wove a rickety narrative about how the potential redolence of cat urine had initially made me reluctant to allow my boyfriend and his two cats to move in with me, but how, ironically, I had come to prefer the company of animals to most people. When I showed up at the same group the next week, a tall, elegant Toastmaster with a European accent greeted me, “Ah, you’re back after sharing your personal life so bravely last week.”
在另外一次聚会上，餐桌话题主持人要我在探讨宠物与环境的问题时使用“浓郁”这个词，于是我讲起了一个乱七八糟的故事：我的男朋友有两只猫，在与他搬到一起同住之前，我一度害怕猫尿味过于“浓郁”而不愿意住在一起；但是，讽刺的是，跟人相比，我现在更喜欢跟动物在一起。当我之后一周去参加同一个分会的活动时，一位身材高挑、举止文雅，有欧洲口音同学这么欢迎我：“啊，你上周勇敢地跟我们分享你的个人生活，现在又回来了！”
While I prepared for my speaking gig, I took notice of what other Toastmasters had struggled with and learned. A woman in her 50s told me she had begun to categorize her nervousness as “energy rather than random static”; a man in his 30s said he’d had to stop obsessing over the Toastmasters laundry list (e.g., posture, vocal variety, eye contact) and just pretend to be telling friends a story. As for me, I had discovered that taking a deep breath just before speaking could transform me from a whiny, managerial tenor to a bearded, black-turtleneck-wearing baritone.
当我为演讲做准备的时候，我注意观察其他同学有什么困难，又学到了什么。一位50多岁的女士对我说，她开始把自己的紧张情绪当做“一种能量，而不是无序的静电”；一位30多岁的男子说他不得不逼自己忘掉演讲会教给他的一系列注意事项（比如站姿，声调的变化，与听众保持延伸接触等等），假装自己是在跟朋友们讲故事。至于我自己，我发现在演讲前深吸一口气能吧自己从一个喋喋不休、操老板腔调的男高音变成一个留着胡子、穿着黑色圆领毛衣的男中音。
The day came. Driving up to Connecticut, I felt that my prolonged exposure to the terror of Table Topics had a counterintuitive effect on me. I wasn’t a better speaker; that, I suppose, comes only after logging hundreds of hours at the podium. But I was much less rattled by the possibility of failure. Failure no longer seemed like a big deal to me, and so I was less nervous.
演讲的那一天终于到了。开车去康涅狄格州的路上，我感到自己在演讲会过度参与“餐桌话题”产生了意料之外的效果。我的演讲水平并没有因为身经百战而提高，但我远远不再担心自己可能失败。失败对我来说已经没什么大不了的，所以我也不那么紧张了。
I still needed to offset the fluttery anticipation of giving a 30-minute speech, so I imagined that I was on a preliminary search for a retirement community in which to spend my dotage. My porcupine did the trick. I drove up and down Noble Horizons’ driveway to scope out the community’s setting (wooded, lovely). I scanned the library (amply stocked) and the restroom (difficult to find, but otherwise unimpeachable).
我仍旧要克服面对30分钟的演讲而带来的那种心慌的感觉，于是我开始假想自己为了安排退休生活而开始寻找理想的养老院。我的“豪猪”产生了效果。我在“富贵地平线”养老院内的车道上绕着圈子，观察它的周边环境（有树林，不错），我逛了逛图书馆（藏书充足）和洗手间（很难找，但其他方面无可挑剔）。
The speech, given to about 40 people in a large activities room, went off without a hitch; in a last-minute, Toastmasters-influenced tweak, I had even reorganized it into three sections, having conceded that if anyone needs Philip Glass, it’s the elderly. This helped. Also, keeping in mind the Toastmasters workbook’s assertion that most people find it easier to talk to friends than to strangers, I had canvassed the room and greeted audience members as they walked in.
我最终在一个宽敞的活动室向大约40位听众发表了演讲，整个过程异常顺利。在开始前最后一刻，受国际演讲会教条的影响，我重新把自己的演讲划分成三个部分，因为我认识到，如果任何人需要“菲利普·格拉斯”的话，那就是这些长者。这招很管用。我还谨记国际演讲会手册中的训导：多数人更容易跟朋友而不是陌生人对话，所以我在活动室内走来走去，每位听众走进来时都跟他们握手。
I felt as comfortable as I have ever felt when speaking in public, wholly incognizant of my trapezius muscle or bodily fluids. I was met with laughter and warm applause. A 102-year-old in the audience did not fall asleep.
我在公共场合演讲从未如此舒坦过，完全没被我的斜方肌和各种体液的状态所打扰。我引来阵阵笑声和掌声。听众中一位102岁的老者也没有睡过去。
And then it happened: A boyish gentleman in his 80s, wide of brow and twinkly of eye, shuffled up to me after the Q and A and said: “You should be doing what you just did for us, but on a regular basis, and all over the country. And you should be getting paid for it.” Jesus wept.
奇迹发生了。在听众问答结束之后，一位鹤发童颜、眉毛浓厚、眼神矍铄的80多岁的老先生走上前来对我说：“这样的演讲，你应该多讲，讲到全国去，而且应该收费。”耶稣都感动得落泪了。
How does an up-and-coming titan of the lecture circuit spend his days? Always on the lookout for material, he views every interaction as a possible teachable moment. He develops complicated feelings about the popularity of ex-presidents. He hears a dog’s growling and thinks, “Mike check.” But mostly, he sits by the phone.
那么，一位即将征服全国讲坛的重量级人物平日里都做些什么呢？他永远在搜寻演讲材料，与别人的任何接触都能学到些什么，对前任总统们受欢迎的程度也感到酸溜溜的。他听到狗叫都会想：“喂喂，测试麦克风。”但多数时候，他坐在电话旁边苦等邀约。
When the bookers call, I will take a deep breath before starting to speak. Friends, I’d like to talk to you all tonight about earlobes, uvulas and toe webbing.
当演讲经纪人们打来电话时，我深吸一口气，开始讲话。“朋友们，今晚我要跟你们讲讲耳垂、小舌头和脚蹼的事。”