WASHINGTON — When former Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia stepped off the elevator on the 26th floor of Trump Tower last week for his interview with Donald Trump, he expected a grilling by the president-elect and a phalanx of associates, something along the lines of the confrontational boardroom scenes at the sleek conference table in the television show “The Apprentice.”
华盛顿——当前乔治亚州州长索尼·珀杜(Sonny Perdue)上周走出特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)26层的电梯，前去和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)面谈时，他以为自己会受到这位候任总统和一群下属的盘问，类似电视真人秀《学徒》(The Apprentice)里那种豪华会议桌边针锋相对的场景。
What he found instead was Trump, calm and solicitous behind a desk cluttered with papers and periodicals, in a large corner office with a hodgepodge of memorabilia and décor that appeared little changed from the 1980s. Nick Ayers, an aide to Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and Stephen K. Bannon, who will serve as Trump’s chief strategist, listened from the sidelines. Trump, who offered Perdue a seat across from his desk, was in charge.
结果他发现，特朗普坐在堆满报纸期刊的办公桌后面，显得平静而又迫切，这间巨大的转角办公室里摆放着各种似乎自80年代起就没怎么变过的纪念品和装饰物。副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)的助手尼克·艾尔斯(Nick Ayers)和即将担任特朗普首席策略师的史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)在一旁听着。特朗普示意珀杜坐在自己正对面的一个座位，会谈由他主导。
“He was approaching this from a deal standpoint, and he wanted to know if he was on the right track,” said Perdue, who is being considered for secretary of agriculture and wore a tie adorned with tractors to the meeting. “He believes that we in the United States have been sort of patsies over the years in the way we’ve dealt with our foreign competitors and international trade — and I agree with him — and he wanted to know what I would do about it.”
“他是从交易的角度来处理这件事，他想知道自己是不是走对路了，”正被考虑担任农业部长的珀杜，打了一条有拖拉机图案的领带来面谈。“他认为在过去几年里，我们美国人在应对外国竞争者和国际贸易方面很容易吃亏上当——我认同他的想法——他想知道我会为此做些什么。”
For more than a decade, millions of Americans tuned in to watch Trump interrogate prospective employees on “The Apprentice” with a mix of arrogance and disdain. But in private over the past few weeks, a less theatrical spinoff of the spectacle has unfolded in Trump’s office in Manhattan, and occasionally at his golf resort in Bedminster, New Jersey, or at Mar-a-Lago, his getaway in Palm Beach, Florida.
十多年来，有数以百万计的美国人打开电视，观看特朗普在《学徒》节目中以一种夹杂傲慢与鄙视的态度盘问有可能被他雇用的人。但在过去几周里，一套不那么戏剧化的续集在特朗普位于曼哈顿的办公室内秘密上演，有时候则是在他位于新泽西州贝德明斯特的高尔夫度假酒店，或在他位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的度假别墅马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)里。
Trump’s interview style in the real world is direct but conversational, according to people who have sat opposite him. He did not take notes or appear to refer to a set list of questions, but he did have dossiers on his visitors and often displayed intricate knowledge of their backgrounds and experience. He rarely drank or ate. He kept his suit jacket on. In New York, he liked to show off the sweeping views of Central Park visible over his shoulder.
据曾经与他面谈过的人说，特朗普在现实世界里的面试风格是直接而随意的。他不记笔记，似乎也没有事先列好的问题，但他的确掌握了有关来客的各种资料，往往显示出对他们的背景和经历了如指掌。他很少饮水或吃东西，始终西装革履。在纽约的时候，他喜欢炫耀自己身后一览无余的中央公园(Central Park)景观。
Job seekers, who must parade before the media in the marble and bronze lobby of Trump Tower — “It was almost like walking the red carpet in Hollywood,” said Rep. Lou Barletta, R-Pa., who has offered himself up as a secretary of transportation or labor — said that the president-elect often asked open-ended questions and had little patience for meandering answers.
求职者必须在媒体面前招摇地走过特朗普大厦金碧辉煌的大厅，“几乎像是走好莱坞的红毯，”自荐担任交通部长或劳工部长的宾夕法尼亚州共和党众议员卢·巴莱塔(Lou Barletta)说。他们表示候任总统通常会问开放性的问题，对迂回的答案没什么耐心。
“If you filibuster, he’ll cut you off,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker who was initially in the running to be Trump’s secretary of state but has since said he is not interested in a Cabinet post. “He wants to know what you can do for him.'’
“如果你发表长篇大论，他会打断你，”前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)说。他一开始曾竞争特朗普的国务卿一职，但自那之后表示对内阁职位不感兴趣。“他想知道你能为他做些什么。”
Gingrich said Trump’s approach to putting together his administration was the same one he has used with his multibillion-dollar business.
金里奇表示，特朗普组建政府的方式和他打理数十亿美元生意的方式是一样的。
“He’s used to defining jobs, measuring capability and making a judgment: ‘Do I think you can run my golf course? Do I think you can run my hotel? Do I want your restaurant in my building?'” Gingrich said.
“他习惯于给工作下定义，衡量能力，然后做出判断：‘我是不是觉得你能管理我的高尔夫球场？是不是觉得你能管理我的酒店？我想让你的餐厅入驻我的大楼吗？’”金里奇说。
Members of Congress, generals, business executives and others mingle outside his office, waiting for an audience with the president-elect. Barletta waited more than 45 minutes for his meeting, passing the time chatting with his colleague Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, who was waiting for his turn to audition for secretary of homeland security.
在特朗普的办公室外国会议员、军队将领、企业高管及其他人等在交谈着，等待与这位候任总统见面。巴莱塔为自己的会面等了45分钟以上，期间他和德克萨斯州共和党众议员迈克尔·麦考尔(Michael McCaul)聊天，后者在等着面试国土安全部长一职。
“It was like a green room, a waiting room of people you know or you know of, all waiting their turn,” said Robert L. Johnson, the founder of the television network BET, who visited Trump at Bedminster to discuss ways the incoming president could reach out to African-Americans.
“就像个演员休息室，里面满是你认识或知道的人，都在等着轮到自己，”BET电视网创始人罗伯特·L·约翰逊(Robert L. Johnson)说。他在贝德明斯特拜访了特朗普，与这位候任总统讨论了他可以如何加强与非裔美国人的联系。
As Johnson was coming in, Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York whom Trump is considering for secretary of state, was going out.
在约翰逊进去的时候，正被特朗普考虑担任国务卿的前纽约市长鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)从里面走了出来。
Trump wants a gut sense for a potential hire, people close to him said, prizing personal chemistry and an entrepreneurial spirit. But he also leans on the judgment of trusted advisers — particularly Pence and his elder daughter, Ivanka Trump — when assessing a candidate.
了解特朗普的人表示，他希望能对潜在人选有一种直觉，看重个人之间的化学反应和一种创业精神。但在评估一位候选人时，他也依赖自己信任的顾问的判断，尤其是彭斯和他的大女儿伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)。
Trump, who prizes loyalty, also wanted to know precisely what the job seekers did to propel him into the White House.
重视忠诚度的特朗普还想确切知道，求职者之前做了什么有助于他入主白宫的事。
“He asked about what I had done to help in Georgia,” said Perdue, who told the president-elect that he and his cousin, Sen. David Perdue, had repeatedly reassured campaign officials about Trump’s prospects there and encouraged them to focus their energies elsewhere.
“他问我在乔治亚州做了什么对他当选有帮助的事，”珀杜说。他告诉这位候任总统，他和他的堂兄弟参议员戴维·珀杜(David Perdue)曾多次向竞选官员保证特朗普在那里有望获胜，鼓励他们把精力放到别的地方。
Scott Brown, a former Massachusetts senator who met with Trump last month about becoming his secretary of veterans affairs, said that Trump asked how he could help him deliver on his campaign pledges and how to ensure a “good value” for veterans receiving services from the agency or private contractors.
前马萨诸塞州参议员斯科特·P·布朗(Scott Brown)上个月和特朗普见了面，讨论了出任退伍军人事务部部长事宜。布朗表示，特朗普问他能如何帮自己实现竞选期间做出的承诺，如何确保从该政府机关或私营承包商接受服务的退伍军人感觉“物有所值”。
“He made it clear that he’s a businessman and he’s going to delegate to people like me, potentially, and others,” Brown said. “He’s going to say, ‘Do your job, and do it well, and otherwise — you’re fired.'”
“他明确表示，他是个商人，他可能会把任务委派给我这样的人，以及其他人，”布朗说。“他会说，‘做本职工作，做好它，否则——你会被炒掉。’”