China is canceling plans to build more than 100 coal-fired power plants, seeking to rein in runaway, wasteful investment in the sector while moving the country away from one of the dirtiest forms of electricity generation, the government announced in a directive made public this week.
政府在本周公布的一份指示中宣布，中国取消在建100多座火力发电厂的计划，试图让该国摆脱堪称最脏发电形式的同时，控制该领域的投资失控和浪费现象。
The announcement, made by China’s National Energy Administration, cancels 103 projects that were planned or under construction, eliminating 120 gigawatts of future coal-fired capacity. That includes dozens of projects in 13 provinces, mostly in China’s coal-rich north and west, on which construction had already begun. Those projects alone would have had a combined output of 54 gigawatts, more than the entire coal-fired capacity of Germany, according to figures compiled by Greenpeace.
中国国家能源局下发的该通知取消了103个计划或在建项目，涉及未来120吉瓦的火力发电量。其中包括数十个已开始建设的项目。它们分布在13个省市，大部分位于中国煤炭资源丰富的北部和西部。绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)编制的数据显示，仅这些项目的发电能力加起来就高达54吉瓦，比整个德国的火力发电量还高。
The cancellations make it likelier that China will meet its goal of limiting its total coal-fired power generation capacity to 1,100 gigawatts by 2020. That huge figure, three times the total coal-fired capacity in the United States, is far more than China needs. Its coal plants now run at about half of capacity, and new sources of power, such as wind, solar and nuclear, are coming online at a fast clip.
取消这些项目，增加了中国实现到2020年时将总的火力发电量控制在1100吉瓦目标的可能性。这个巨大的数字是美国总火力发电能力的三倍，远远超出了中国的需求。目前，中国火电厂约半数产能闲置，风能、太阳能、核能等新能源项目正在快速上线。
Nevertheless, China’s capacity would have surged well past the 1,100-gigawatt mark by 2020 had it not begun canceling coal-fired plants that were in the works. The new announcements are in addition to a series of project cancellations detailed last year.
然而，如果现在还不开始取消正在筹备中的火电厂，到2020年时，中国的发电能力会远远超过1100吉瓦。除了前述新通知外，中国去年也详细列出了一系列被取消的项目。
“The key thing is that yes, China has a long way to go, but in the past few years China has come a very long way,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, a researcher for Greenpeace in Beijing.
“关键在于，的确，中国还有很长的路要走，但过去几年，中国已经走了非常长的一段路了，”绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)驻北京的研究员柳力(Lauri Myllyvirta)说。
Electricity generated from coal is the biggest source of the greenhouse gases that lead to global warming, and pollution from such plants contributes to the miasma of smog that has blanketed large parts of China this winter. But despite the vast amount of capacity added in recent years, China’s coal use has been on the decline since 2013.
火力发电是造成全球变暖的温室气体的最大来源，来自这类发电厂的污染也是今年冬天笼罩中国大片地区的雾霾的原因之一。尽管最近几年中国的火力发电能力大幅增加，但中国的煤炭消耗量却从2013年开始一直在下降。
Still, China’s state-owned power companies remain politically powerful. Grid operators often favor power generated from coal plants over that made by wind and solar, and despite the cuts, China is still building far more capacity than it needs.
不过中国的国有电力公司在政治上依然势力强大。电网运营商往往更喜欢火电厂发的电，而不是利用风能和太阳能发的电，并且尽管有所削减，但中国仍在建设远远超出自身需求的发电能力。
In contrast, utilities in the United States have only four coal-fired plants set to go online through 2020, with a combined capacity of less than 1 gigawatt, according to the Energy Information Administration. The United States retired more than 13 gigawatts of coal capacity in 2015 as the country shifted toward natural gas, wind and solar.
相比之下，据美国能源情报署(Energy Information Administration)称，到2020年为止，美国只有四座火电厂计划上线，加起来的发电能力不到1吉瓦。2015年，随着美国转向天然气、风能和太阳能，13吉瓦的火力发电量被迫退出。