Los Angeles — As Ukraine’s president fled Kiev and protesters roamed his mansion and took over the capital, old statues of Vladimir Lenin were toppled and dragged through the streets in several Ukrainian cities.
洛杉矶——随着乌克兰总统逃离基辅，示威者闯入他的大宅，并且控制了首都。与此同时，在乌克兰的多个城市里，弗拉基米尔·列宁(Vladimir Lenin)的旧塑像被推倒，在街上拖来拖去。
The vandalism and destruction of Lenin statues across Ukraine is only the latest attack on symbols of the old Soviet state and its Eastern European satellites.
乌克兰各地对列宁像的损毁破坏，只是苏联及其东欧卫星国的象征符号受到攻击的最新事件。
As the Soviet Union crumbled in the late 1980s and early 1990s, images of Lenin were defaced and graffiti artists mocked the Communist Party. In East Germany, most of the scorn was saved for the party leader and head-of-state Erich Honecker. His portraits were vandalized and altered, representing widespread anger and charges that he was a war criminal resulting from the shooting deaths at the Berlin Wall. Mr. Honecker avoided trial because of deteriorating health and was allowed to be exiled in Chile.
苏联在上世纪80年代末90年代初崩溃之时，列宁的画像受到了破坏，涂鸦画家也对共产党大加嘲讽。在东德，大多数的嘲讽都指向了党的领袖和国家元首埃里希·昂纳克(Erich Honecker)。他的画像遭到破坏和篡改，这反映了民众广泛的愤怒，也反映了他因在柏林墙射杀民众而受到的战犯指控。昂纳克因为健康状况恶化，免于接受审判，并最终获准流亡智利。
The East German flag, with the central state seal cut out of the middle, was waved in opposition rallies, indicating a desire to return to some notion of unified German statehood, suggested by the historic black, red and yellow stripes of Weimar. And perhaps the most striking example was a bust of Lenin, once white, that was painted in the midst of the October uprising in Leipzig, using Western-made fluorescent pink and green paint.
而在反对派的集会上挥舞的东德国旗，则被挖去了正中央的国徽，魏玛共和国历史上黑红黄的色条显示出民众渴望着德国能以某种方式实现统一。最引人注目的一个例子恐怕是一尊原本是白色的列宁半身像，在10月份莱比锡发生示威时，这尊塑像被人用西方制造的粉色和绿色的荧光油漆涂上了颜色。
These kinds of iconoclastic gestures had occurred within the Soviet bloc even before the watershed moment of 1989. Following the end of Nikita Khrushchev’s reign in the Soviet Union, his fall from grace was represented in his crude removal from an official painting marking the occasion of the 22nd Party Congress. He remains as a scratched out ghost-like figure — just enough was left to remind viewers of the shift in party-line. His successor, Leonid Brezhnev, was attacked in the early 1980s by street protesters who painted “WHY!” in English over his portrait. The late 1980s saw a rise in dissident art with ample use of irony to help drive the point home.
即使在1989年的分野时刻到来之前，苏联阵营里就发生过这种损毁偶像的举动。尼基塔·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita Khrushchev)统治苏联的时代结束后，苏联官方描绘第22届党代会的官方油画中，赫鲁晓夫的形象被以拙劣的手法抹掉了，这一举动反映了他的失势。在画中还留下了他仿似鬼影的少许轮廓，刚刚足以让观者联想起党的路线发生的转变。他的继任者，列昂尼德·勃列日涅夫(Leonid Brezhnev)上世纪80受到街头抗议者的攻击，民众在勃列日涅夫画像上涂上了英语“WHY!”（为什么！）上世纪80年代末，异见艺术兴起，人们广泛使用讽刺手法来表达观点。
Collective memory and the desire for a particular national, political, or even religious identity are often bound up in historical sites and objects of commemoration and the way in which they are preserved or destroyed. From the mass destruction of Christian icons during the Reformation, to the appropriation of royal emblems during the French Revolution, to the vandalism of fascist art during and after World War II, history is filled with examples of manipulated images and defaced symbols of power — often these serve as an opposition rallying cry or a means to exorcise historical demons.
人们的集体记忆，以及对特定的国族、政治乃至宗教认同的渴求，往往与历史事件发生的地点和纪念物紧密相连，也与这些符号保存或毁坏的的方式相连。从宗教改革时期大规模毁坏基督教符号，到法国大革命时夺取王室的象征，再到二战期间及二战后破坏法西斯艺术作品，历史上充满了画像受到人为更改、权力的象征受到损坏的例子。这种做法常常是反对派凝聚民众的呼喊，或驱除历史梦魇的手段。
Subverting icons of authority to demonstrate the state’s lack of control over its own symbols has often been very effective. Likewise, mocking the seriousness of those symbols to undermine the visual threats that many regimes rely on to maintain order has long been a useful tool for protesters.
通过颠覆代表权威的符号，来显示国家已经无法控制自身的象征，这种手段常常十分有效。类似的，嘲讽那些符号的严肃性，进而削弱许多政权赖以维系秩序的视觉上的威胁，长期以来这也是对示威者很有用的工具。
But the destruction or removal of symbols as a means of national reconciliation, building consensus, or cultivating a new collective memory is rarely successful.
但将破坏或拆除符号当做国族和解、构建共识，或者培育新的集体记忆的手段，却极少能成功。
Following the end of the Cold War, monuments and historical sites fell victim to what some German observers call the Müllphase, or “trash phase” in which the materials of one era are physically thrown out to make room for a new one. Throughout the 1990s, bronze sculptures of old political heroes were melted down, artwork was de-accessioned or transferred to historical art depots, thereby deprioritizing it as art.
冷战结束后，纪念碑和具有历史意义的地点都在一些德国观察人士所说的“扔垃圾时期”(Müllphase)中，成为牺牲品。为了给新的符号腾地方，构建一个时代的材料，在物理意义上被抛弃了。上世纪90年代从始到终，旧时政治英雄的铜像被熔化，博物馆将一些艺术作品从馆藏中剔除，或者将它们转移到历史艺术品的仓库中，进而降低它们作为艺术品的重要性。
Even the Palace of the Republic, the most important building constructed in the former East Germany, was disassembled in 2008. It housed the seat of government and hosted a range of recreational activities for citizens, including bowling, dancing and cafes. It did not align with the new historical narrative for contemporary Germany.
即使是前东德时代建造的最重要的建筑共和国宫，也已于2008年拆除。这座大楼曾是政府驻地，也为公民提供一系列休闲活动，包括保龄球场、舞厅和咖啡馆。它不符合当代德国新的历史叙事。
Nevertheless, the removal or dismemberment of these monuments or installations from their original locations, as most of the Berlin Wall was in 1990, did not resolve the often complex historical problems that they represented. The grinding of the wall into gravel did not eliminate the “Mauer im Kopf,” or “Wall in the Head.” In fact, such destruction sometimes makes the process of reconciliation more difficult because the absence of physical reminders within the urban landscape only pushes the invisible psychological scarring further into the recesses — until it erupts.
然而，从原址拆除或肢解这些历史符号或装置，并不能解决它们所代表的经常很复杂的历史问题。1990年，柏林墙的很大部分被拆除了，但将墙体砸成碎块，也并不能消除“头脑里的墙”(Mauer im Kopf)。实际上，这样的破坏有时候会让和解的过程更加困难，因为城市景观中提醒人们回想过去的实体标识已经不复存在，看不见的心理创伤只能更深地蛰伏，直到它再次迸发。
The Lenin statues have been treated by Ukrainian protesters as a stand-in for Russia itself. And while it surely is a captivating media moment and will perhaps galvanize like-minded protesters, it isn’t likely to play a positive role in helping Ukrainians to come to terms with their complicated past and it is certainly not going to change the reality of Ukraine’s geographic happenstance, sandwiched between Russia and the European Union.
乌克兰示威民众对待列宁像时，仿佛它是俄罗斯的替身。尽管这一幕在媒体上肯定因人瞩目，可能也会鼓舞观点相似的示威者，但对于帮助乌克兰人与该国复杂的过去和解，应该不会起到积极的作用，肯定也不会改变乌克兰碰巧夹在俄罗斯与欧盟之间的地理位置。
Once historical sites and statues are gone, they do not come back. This is not just unfortunate for historians and museums but also for those whose history (whether glorious or uncomfortable) is being destroyed. It precludes the possibility of a public place for contemplation and psychological recovery. Ultimately, eradicating history in the pursuit of a revised national narrative represents a lack of confidence that past traumas and current debates will be fairly sorted in the future.
具有历史意义的地点和塑像，一旦拆除就回不来了。这不仅对历史学家和博物馆是不幸的，对于其历史正在受到破坏的民众也是不幸的，无论那段历史是光荣还是耻辱。它排除了保留一个公共空间，供民众思索、平复心理创伤的可能性。最终，为了修正国家的历史叙事而清除历史记忆，反映出人们缺乏信心，不认为过去的创伤和当下的争辩能够在未来得到公平解决。
In Ukraine, the struggle for ownership of the past continues to unfold. And while the protesters’ destruction of monuments might hasten their victory, it does not mean they will have an easy time putting their fragmented country back together.
在乌克兰，谁能主导过去的斗争还在继续展开。尽管示威者拆除纪念碑可能会加快他们的胜利，但这并不意味着他们能轻松地把分裂的国家凝聚起来。