Tama Robertson, a real estate broker, was warming up to a landlord on the Lower East Side of Manhattan recently when he casually asked for her help in breaking the law. Ms. Robertson had heard landlords make crude requests before, but this one stopped her cold.
最近，房地产经纪人塔玛·罗伯逊(Tama Robertson)正与曼哈顿下东区(Lower East Side of Manhattan)的一位房东打得火热，这位房东想趁此机会，让她帮忙去做有违法律的事。罗伯逊以前曾听说，房东们会提出一些苛刻的要求，但这次却让她大吃一惊。
“Try to get me some good people,” she remembers him saying. Got it.
“尽量帮我找几位好一点的租客吧，”她记得他说。明白了。
“Make sure their finances are in order.” No problem.
“要确保他们的财务状况不混乱。”没问题。
And then, she recalled, he delivered this ultimatum: “Don’t bring me any gays or blacks.”
然后，她回忆道，他提出了这项终极要求：“别带任何同性恋或黑人来见我。”
Ms. Robertson flinched, but wasn’t all that surprised.
罗伯逊心里一颤，不过也没有那么吃惊。
“We have a tendency to think that 10 years ago was 10 years ago, but it’s not,” Ms. Robertson said. Despite state and city anti-discrimination laws, outright discrimination, she added, “is alive and well.”
“我们总觉得，十年前就是十年前，其实并非如此，”罗伯逊说。尽管各州各市都制定了反歧视法，但赤裸裸的歧视行为，她补充说，“依然存在，且大行其道。”
Ms. Robertson, 59, an agent with Coldwell Banker Bellmarc, opposes discrimination of any sort but as a gay woman she has a deeply personal sensitivity to the challenges confronted by gay, lesbian and transgender apartment hunters. Her biography on the brokerage’s website reads: “She specializes in working with first-time buyers, investors and the G.L.B.T.Q. community,” referring to gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning. About half her clients are gay or lesbian.
现年59岁的Coldwell Banker Bellmarc房地产公司经纪人罗伯逊，反对一切形式的歧视行为，但作为一名女同性恋者，她对男同性恋、女同性恋和变性人这类寻屋者，有着很深的个人感触。她在这家中介公司网站上的个人介绍中写道：“她擅长接洽初次购房的买家、投资者与G.L.B.T.Q.群体，”其中的缩写指代“男同、女同、双性、变性与性向不明者”。她有将近一半的客户都是男、女同性恋。
“Maybe a heterosexual person would say, ‘What’s the big deal now? You can get married and buy properties,’ ” she said. “We have yet for the federal government to admit that we have these rights. They just agreed to stop fighting it in court.”
“也许，一位异性恋者会说，‘现在这有什么大不了的？你们都能结婚和买房了’，”她说，“但我们还没能让联邦政府承认，我们拥有这些权利。他们只是同意了停止法庭上的争斗。”
Ms. Robertson was unruffled by the Lower East Side landlord, who owned several buildings in the area. “I just very calmly said, ‘You know that’s illegal and I can’t be a party to that,’ ” she said. He raised his voice, but Ms. Robertson politely ended the conversation. “I can be very straightforward,” she said.
罗伯逊镇定地应对了这位在下东区拥有几栋大楼的房东。“我只是非常平静地说，‘你知道那是违法的，我不能牵涉进来，’”她说。他嚷嚷了起来，但罗伯逊彬彬有礼地结束了这次谈话。“我可以非常直截了当，”她说。
The Supreme Court decision last year overturning the Defense of Marriage Act granted lesbian and gay couples a raft of new housing rights, including tax breaks and exemptions that straight spouses receive. But it did not eliminate the unique housing barriers that continue to stymie gay couples.
去年推翻了婚姻保护法的那项最高法院决议，授予了女同和男同伴侣许多项住房方面的最新权利，其中包括了非同夫妇所享有的税收优惠与豁免。但这并未消除一直挡在同性伴侣面前的那种特有的住房障碍。
It is still legal to deny Americans housing because of their sexual orientation under federal law, which does not prohibit discrimination based on sexuality. The Department of Housing and Urban Development recently made it illegal to discriminate against gays and lesbians in federally funded or insured housing, but most housing in the United States is not publicly funded.
根据联邦法律，因人们的性取向而拒绝他们入住，依然属于合法行为。联邦法律并没有禁止基于性取向的歧视。住房和城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)刚刚出台规定，在享有联邦资助金或保险金的住房范围内，对男同和女同的歧视属于违法行为，但在美国，大部分住宅都不是公费资助的。
New York is one of 21 states, plus the District of Columbia, that have enacted anti-discrimination laws to protect gay and lesbian renters and homeowners. But federal studies have shown that even when the law prohibits it, sexual minorities are routinely shut out of housing opportunities that are made available to straight people.
美国的21个州外加哥伦比亚特区，都已制定反歧视法，以保护男同和女同租房者和房东，纽约也是其中之一。但一些联邦研究资料显示，即使这项法律已经明令禁止这类行为，性别少数派们还是被例行公事地挡在了一些对于异性恋人士而言，唾手可得的住房机会之外。
A HUD investigation last year found that in states with anti-discrimination laws in place, brokers were more likely to respond unfavorably to inquiries from a man or woman who said he or she wanted to move with a “partner.” The report said “potentially low levels of enforcement” of rules may explain that dynamic.
去年，住房和城市发展部的一项调查显示，在那些颁布了反歧视法的行政州内，经纪人们更有可能消极应对那些称自己想和一名“伴侣”搬来居住的男人或女人的询问。这份报告称，这些法规“潜在的可执行性不足”，或许可以解释那样的互动行为。
At least two legal actions in New York in the last two years challenged landlords who sought to deny married gay tenants the right to add their spouses to the leases of rent-controlled apartments, a right that all married couples are entitled to under state laws.  Karen Loewy, a lawyer at Lambda Legal, an organization that worked on the cases, said that wrangling over lease rights is just one among many battles that gay and lesbian apartment dwellers have to fight. “In a housing market in New York where trying to find affordable housing is a challenge for everybody,” there is no disincentive for landlords to discriminate, Ms. Loewy said. “Unfortunately, even in communities that consider themselves pretty progressive, more subtle forms of anti-L.G.B.T. discrimination continue to be rampant.”
过去两年中，纽约至少有两起诉讼案件，是针对这样一些房东的——他们企图否认，已婚男同租客们有权将其配偶添加到那些租金管制公寓的租约中。而根据该州法律，这是一项所有已婚夫妇都享有的权利。凯伦·洛伊(Karen Loewy)是曾处理此类案件的组织浪达法律(Lambda Legal)的一名律师。她说，有关租住权的斗争，只是那些租住公寓的男女同性恋者所必须参与的许多战斗之一。“在纽约这样一个对每人来说，找到经济实惠的住处都是一项挑战的市场中，”没有什么能阻止房东们的歧视行为，洛伊说，“不幸的是，即使在那些自认为相当进步的社区当中，针对L.G.B.T.形式更加微妙的歧视，也一直是泛滥成灾的。”
Ms. Robertson said she got into real estate more than a decade ago because she did not want already-stressed apartment-hunters to have to deal with the potential extra headache of a biased broker.
罗伯逊说，她十多年前进入房地产行业，因为不想让那些已经压力重重的寻屋者们，还不得不去和一位对他们有偏见的经纪人那有意无意的恼人言行周旋。
Originally from Bloomington, Ind., Ms. Robertson had a past as an informal landlord, renting out the odd room in her townhouse. But it was only after she moved to New York City about 20 years ago — actually, only after her first gay pride parade — that she considered making a career out of real estate. She was then teaching architecture and art in the public schools.
祖籍印第安纳州布卢明顿市(Bloomington, Ind.)的罗伯逊，就曾有一段作为非正式的房东、出租她的联排别墅中多余房间的经历。但在大约20年前搬到纽约后——实际上是在她第一次参加同性恋光荣大游行之后——她才考虑要将房地产作为事业。当时，她还在公立学校教授建筑与艺术课程。
At the parade, she noticed a booth for a renter’s insurance company that boasted about serving gay customers. She took a business card, and it occurred to her that there might be a market for someone who could anticipate the particular set of anxieties that make the blood sport of apartment-seeking in New York City even harder for gays and lesbians.
在那次游行当中，她发现了一家租房者保险公司的展位，在宣传其面向同性恋客户提供的服务。她取了一张名片，然后想到，人们的种种顾虑令男、女同性恋者在纽约市寻找公寓的努力更加艰难；而对于能够预料到这一点的人，它可能是个市场。
“Those are the kinds of connections that we had to make in the beginning to help one another,” she said. “For so long we had to figure it out for ourselves because we were so disenfranchised.”
“那是我们在一开始就必须建立起的一种关联，以便互相帮助，”她说，“而长期以来，我们都不得不自己搞定这件事，因为我们丝毫享受不到公民权利。”
When Ms. Robertson and her wife were looking to buy an apartment in Manhattan several years ago, she said co-op boards somehow neglected to schedule interviews with them, and when they did, came up with incongruous concerns. One board, she said, suggested that Ms. Robertson’s wife, who has tenure at Columbia University, might lose her job.
几年前，罗伯逊和她的妻子打算在曼哈顿买一套公寓，她说，那些合作公寓楼的董事会不知何故，似乎忘记了安排与她们的面谈。而在见面之后，他们又表露出一些不太恰当的顾虑。她说，一个董事会曾隐约提到，罗伯逊那位在哥伦比亚大学获得终身教职的妻子，可能会失去她的工作。
Agents were also squeamish, she said. “You would have thought you had lobsters crawling out of your ears the way agents looked at us and dealt with us,” she said.
那些经纪人也有些神经质，她说。“那些人打量我们和同我们打交道的方式，会让你以为自己耳朵里有龙虾爬出来，”她说。
The couple finally found an apartment.
这对伴侣最终还是找到了一套公寓。
When she overhears brokers complaining about how hard it will be to get a gay or lesbian couple through a co-op board, for example, she will remind them, nicely, that they are part of the problem. “Yeah, it was really difficult for me to find an apartment because of that attitude,” she will interject. “I always challenge it.”
当她不断听闻那些经纪人抱怨，比如说，让一对男同或女同伴侣通过一栋合作公寓楼董事会的审核，有多么困难之后，她会很有礼貌地提醒那些经纪人，他们自己就是问题当中的一部分。“是的，因为遇到了那样的态度，找到一套公寓对我来说实在太难了，”她会插上一句，“我一直在挑战这个问题。”
The Real Estate Board of New York requires all agents and salespeople in the city to take classes in civil rights in housing. “Issues of discrimination do exist,” said Neil B. Garfinkel, the board’s broker counsel. “Our members take this very seriously. The purpose of fair housing laws is to give anyone, regardless of their characteristics, the opportunity to live and buy wherever they want.”
纽约市房地产委员会(The Real Estate Board of New York)要求，这座城市中所有房地产经纪人和销售人员，都要参加几堂关于公民住房权利的课程。“歧视问题确实存在，”该委员会的代理律师尼尔·B·加芬克尔(Neil B. Garfinkel)说，“我们管委会的成员都很重视这一问题。制定那些公平住房法的目的，就是让所有人都有机会住进他们喜欢的地方，购买他们喜欢的房子。”
Ms. Robertson said that at Coldwell Banker/Bellmarc, where she has been an agent since 2002, agents who put their discomfort with gays or lesbians on display never seem to last long. “My sense was that they didn’t work out on various levels,” she said. “I see Bellmarc as just an incredibly honest company that encourages civil rights, so that’s why I stay there.”
罗伯逊说，在她2002年以来就一直任职经纪人的那家房地产公司Coldwell Banker/Bellmarc里，一些公开表露出与男同或女同人士相处不自在的经纪人，似乎都不会做得太久。“我的感觉是，他们各方面都不适应，”她说，“我认为Bellmarc就是一家在提倡公民权利方面极其诚恳的公司，那就是为什么我一直待在那里。”
When Todd Anderson moved to New York from Kentucky with his boyfriend, his agent was Ms. Robertson, who had tread the same territory two decades earlier.
当托德·安德森(Todd Anderson)与他的男友从肯塔基州搬到纽约时，他的经纪人，正是早在二十年前就踏遍这片土地的罗伯逊。
“Tama immediately understood the reasons and the plight of someone moving from the Midwest, and wanting to come to New York,” he said.
“塔玛立刻就明白了有人从中西部地区搬走，并希望来到纽约的个中原因及困顿，”他说。
Mr. Anderson, 32, had been harassed for being gay since high school, when he began dating Timothy Douglas, the sophomore boy who would eventually become his husband. Mr. Anderson and Mr. Douglas stayed together through high school, college and graduate school. Along the way, they learned how to use real estate to avoid the haters.
现年32岁的安德森，自从上高中后，就为自己是一名男同性恋者而感到烦恼。那时候，他刚开始同一名最终成为他丈夫的大二男孩蒂莫西·道格拉斯(Timothy Douglas)约会。安德森与道格拉斯一起度过了高中、大学和研究生院的时光。一路上，他们学会了怎样利用房地产来回避那些厌恶他们的人。
The couple moved within Kentucky from Bowling Green, to Lexington, a city they assumed would be more welcoming. Not entirely so. “Just walking down the sidewalk we would still get people rolling down the window and yelling, ” Mr. Anderson said. “We lived on the 19th floor of a high-rise building so that, in part, we would be protected from such things.”
这对伴侣在肯塔基州境内，从鲍灵格林市(Bowling Green)搬到了莱克辛顿市(Lexington)，他们以为这座城市会对他们更友好一些。并不完全如此。“只要沿着人行道走一走，我们还是会遇上有人摇下车窗，冲我们大声嚷嚷，”安德森说，“我们住在一栋高层建筑的第19层，那样我们可以尽量躲开这些事。”
But he didn’t want to have to live in a high-rise in New York, and Ms. Robertson didn’t need him to translate his wishes for the new life he envisioned with Mr. Douglas.
但他不希望在纽约也不得不住进一栋高层建筑里。而罗伯逊并不需要他去解释，他所期望的、与道格拉斯一起设想的那种新生活。