McDonald’s said one of its Twitter feeds was compromised on Thursday after the fast-food chain’s corporate account sent out a message insulting President Trump.
麦当劳周四表示，该公司的一个Twitter帐户遭到入侵，之前这家快餐连锁店的企业帐户发出了一条Twitter消息，对特朗普进行了侮辱。
“@realDonaldTrump you are actually a disgusting excuse of a President and we would love to have @BarackObama back, also you have tiny hands,” the tweet from the account read.
“@realDonaldTrump你真是一个令人厌恶的总统，我们很希望@BarackObama回来，而且你的手很小，”该帐户发帖说。
The message was quickly removed. A spokeswoman for McDonald’s, Becca Hary, said Twitter notified the company that its account had been compromised. “We deleted the tweet, secured our account and are now investigating this,” Ms. Hary said in an email, echoing a message the company posted on Twitter later in the morning.
该消息迅速删除。麦当劳的发言人贝卡·哈利(Becca Hary)表示，Twitter通知他们这个帐户已被入侵。“我们删除了那条消息，对帐户采取了安全措施，现在正在调查此事，”哈利在一封电邮中重复了公司在Twitter上发布的消息。
Ms. Hary did not respond to a question about whether the company had any idea about who may have been responsible.
哈利没有回答一个问题：该公司是否知道可能谁对这个事件负责。
Will Stickney, a Twitter spokesman, said, “We do not comment on individual accounts for privacy and security reasons.”
Twitter的发言人威尔·斯迪肯尼(Will Stickney)说，“出于隐私和安全的原因，我们不会对个人帐户置评。”
The tweet criticizing Mr. Trump was shared many hundreds of times and set off a furious round of comment. The company’s corporate Twitter account has about 150,000 followers, far fewer than the 3.4 million on its main account.
这条批评特朗普的帖子被分享了好几百次，并引发了一轮激烈评论。麦当劳的企业Twitter帐户有大约15万个关注者，远远少于其主帐户的340万。
The comment about Mr. Trump’s hands in the initial message was an apparent reference to last year’s insults directed at Mr. Trump from Senator Marco Rubio, his former rival for the White House. Mr. Rubio said Mr. Trump had “small hands” and “spray tan” during a campaign stop.
那条推文中关于特朗普的手的说法，明显是来自去年竞选的时候，竞争对手、参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)对特朗普的侮辱。卢比奥在一次竞选活动中说，特朗普有一双“小手”，而且使用“美黑喷雾”。
“You know what they say about men with small hands,” Mr. Rubio said at Roanoke College in Salem, Va. “You can’t trust them.”
“你知道，他们怎么说手小的男人吗，”卢比奥在萨勒姆罗阿诺克学院说，“你不能相信他们。”
The remarks came after Mr. Trump had repeatedly dismissed the Republican senator as “Little Marco” at his own campaign rallies. Mr. Rubio later apologized for his comments.
卢比奥说这番话之前，特朗普曾在自己的竞选集会上再三把共和党参议员卢比奥称为“小马可”。后来卢比奥为这番话道了歉。