Two pieces of seemingly unrelated news last week show just how deficient our values are when it comes to the treatment of the lowest paid workers in our economy, the largest portion of whom are employed in the food chain.
上周两则互不相干的新闻表明，在低薪工人的待遇问题上，我们的价值观有着多么大的缺陷，这些工人中以受雇于食品行业为最多。
First, Los Angeles followed Seattle and San Francisco in setting its minimum wage at $15 per hour. With New York looking as if it might join the club, $15 could become the new, de facto $7.25, the current federal minimum hourly wage. (As I’ve mentioned before, many tipped workers make even less than that.) A couple of days later, Walmart, among the worst offenders in the realm of labor abuse, announced that it would push its suppliers for improvements in ... animal welfare.
首先是洛杉矶步西雅图和旧金山后尘，制定了每小时15美元（约合93元人民币）的最低工资标准。眼看纽约也有望跟进，15美元也许会取代现在的7.25美元，成为实际上的联邦最低时薪标准。（此前我曾提到，许多有小费的工人的时薪比这还要低。）几天前，在盘剥劳工方面劣迹斑斑的沃尔玛(Walmart)宣布，将敦促其供货商改善……动物福利。
If Walmart’s new rules are enforced, they’d be stricter and more humane than any set by federal agencies. But the standards are voluntary, vague and without a deadline; and the company has a history of not following through on its promises.
沃尔玛的新规如果得到施行，将比联邦机构制定的规则更严、更人性化。但这是个自愿性质的标准语焉不详，没有时间规限；而这家公司有不履行承诺的前科。
And what does it say that you can buy a can of tuna guaranteed to be dolphin-safe but can’t guarantee that its human producers — fishers, processors, transporters, packers, sales representatives — haven’t been abused?
如果你买到的一罐金枪鱼保证不会伤害到海豚，但却无法保证生产它的人类——负责捕捞、加工、运输、装罐、销售的人员——没有遭到剥削，你会作何感想？
It’s difficult to cheer an announcement by a corporation whose labor- and farmer-crushing techniques are world renowned. Walmart specializes — indeed, is the leader — in driving down supplier prices regardless of true costs and in under-employing workers for a variety of deplorable reasons, like avoiding paying benefits or providing health care, making it difficult to unionize and making overtime pay out of the question.
一个以压榨劳工和农民的手法闻名于世的企业发布这样的决定，让人很难高兴起来。沃尔玛格外擅长——名副其实的业界领先——压低供货商价格，不顾对方的真实成本，还会以各种下三滥的理由压低雇员的薪水，比如避免给福利或提供医疗保险，为工会组织设置障碍，加班费则是休想指望的。
The world’s biggest food retailer and its ilk are a good part of the reason that our cities and states are stepping in and saying, quite simply, “Our workers deserve better.” Though Los Angeles’s new minimum is to be phased in over five years (that’s a long time to wait if you’re making $9 an hour right now), it will be linked to the Consumer Price Index in 2022, which means it could go even higher.
全球最大食品零售商及同类企业的所作所为，在很大程度上促使我们的各城市和州行动起来，目的很简单，“我们的工人理应得到更多。”洛杉矶的最低工资新标准会在五年内逐步实施（如果你现在拿着9美元的时薪，五年可是一段漫长的等待），但到2022年，最低工资会和消费者价格指数(Consumer Price Index)挂钩，也就是说还会继续提高。
Yet Walmart insists that cost-cutting enables its “always low prices.” (The slogan could as well be “always disproportionately high profits.”) And opponents of a living wage will always break out the line that higher wages will close marginal businesses and therefore cost jobs.
沃尔玛坚称是成本的削减让它的商品可以“始终保持低价”。（这口号完全可以改为“始终保持出奇的高利润”。）而反对限定最低生活工资的人一如既往地抛出那套理论，说提高工资会导致小企业倒闭，令人失去工作。
But if you run a business that’s dependent on labor at the poverty level or worse, and that business doesn’t work if you pay workers something approaching a living wage, it isn’t a viable business, from either the moral or practical point of view. (I wish the moral argument were sufficient, and it says a lot about the wayward path of our country that it isn’t.) Practically: If the lowest-paid workers aren’t on the job, there is no business.
但是，如果你的企业要依赖一些在贫困线挣扎的劳动力，如果你的员工薪酬标准接近生活工资会导致企业运转不灵，那么这不是一个能维持的企业，无论是从道义还是实际操作上看，都是如此。（我真希望仅凭道义的理由就已经足够，但是不行，这说明我们国家此刻是多么的任意妄为。）实际上：如果最低薪工人不来上班，也就不存在企业了。
I visited a big central California farm a couple of weeks ago, with 50 workers in a single field. Their days looked something like this: repetitive manual labor for two hours, then a 15-minute break; that same labor for two hours, then a 30-minute lunch; repeat, then a break; repeat, then go home. For this they were paid $10 an hour, or roughly $80 a day. This is seasonal work, but even if it were year-round employment, that $400 a week translates to $20,800 a year, barely above the poverty level for a family of four — and it carries no benefits. Yet without those workers, the rest of us don’t eat salad.
几周前我去加州中部拜访了一座大型农场，那里的一块田里有50名工人。他们的一天差不多是这样：两个小时的重复性手工劳作，然后休息15分钟；同样的工作再做两个小时，30分钟的午餐时间；再工作，休息；工作，下班。他们的时薪是10美元，一天下来大约是80美元。这是份季节性的工作，但即使是全年聘用，400美元周薪折算年薪是20800美元，将将过了四口之家的贫困线——而且是没有福利的。但是，没有这些工人，我们就吃不上沙拉。
This exploitative situation works great for the operation’s owners and for those of us with money. It reminded me that the plantation system of the Old South benefited its genteel owners and consumers of its products. But it was enabled by slavery, which wasn’t abolished simply because it was wrong, but because it wasn’t sustainable. Paying people less than a living wage is the 21st century version of this.
这种盘剥的安排，对经营者和我们这些买东西的人很有利。它让我想到旧南方(Old South)的种植园体制，曾经给那些高高在上的园主及其产品的消费者带去多大的利益。但这一切是靠奴役得来的，废奴并非只是因为奴役是错的，还因为它不可持续。让员工的薪水低于生活工资，是21世纪的奴隶制。
Slaves, it might be remembered, were actually dislocated by abolition. Few would argue against freedom, but systematic discrimination, homelessness and unemployment were not exactly painless consequences. Thus the fallout from slavery and its aftereffects are still felt today, the core of Ta-Nehisi Coates’s powerfully persuasive arguments for reparations.
也许在后人眼里，废奴只是打乱了奴隶制的原有秩序。很少有人会反对自由，但是制度性的歧视、无家可归和失业，这些可不是不痛不痒的后果。因此，我们今天仍能感受到奴隶制及其后遗症的余波，这正是塔-那哈希·科茨(Ta-Nehisi Coates)之所以主张赔偿的核心论点，很有说服力。
When you look at who does the work in the food system, it is clear we have institutionalized racism, we exploit immigrants to do the work citizens won’t stoop to do, and we are as a society abiding the consequences of employers who underpay workers. These consequences will be felt for decades or even centuries in the form of an economy that features the further accumulation of wealth in a small fraction of society and a lack of socioeconomic mobility for almost everyone else. How much more money does the Walton family and their class need?
只需看看在食品系统工作的人，很显然，我们已经把种族主义制度化了；我们让移民去做一些本国公民不会屈尊去做的工作，我们这个社会容忍雇主克扣盘剥工人。其影响将持续几十年甚至上百年，促使经济体中的财富继续集中一小部分人手里，而对于其他所有人来说，社会经济流动性非常之低。沃尔顿(Walton)家族和他们那个阶级还需要挣多少钱？
The mantras that raising the minimum wage is “bad for the economy” and “kills jobs and businesses” are gibberish. Report after report shows that higher wages throughout the system are a boost to the economy, not job killers. Higher wages are a stimulus, since low-paid people — unlike the rich — recirculate every dollar they earn, yielding a multiplier effect and supporting both local and national businesses.
提高最低工资标准“对经济不利”、“打压就业和企业”这类说法都是胡扯。连篇累牍的报告显示，保持较高的工资水平是对经济的一种提振，而不是对就业的打击。更高的工资是一种刺激，因为和富人不同，低收入者会把赚取的每分钱都拿出来流通，这会产生放大效应，为本地和全国性企业提供助力。
There is no social contract or obligation to prop up businesses that pay starvation wages while shareholders become richer. In fact, the American proposition is that workers get the fair treatment their productivity merits and that we’d all expect were we in their place. Yet most workers are producing more and earning less, and the differential between those two elements is what’s enriching the Waltons and others like them.
对于那些向员工支付微薄工资，让股东越来越富有的企业，我们没有社会契约或义务去支持它们。美国的主张其实是让工人获得与其生产力相称的工资，我们如果在他们的位置上，会希望得到多少，他们就应该得到多少。然而，大多数工人正在生产更多，得到更少，正是这两者的差值，让沃尔顿家族之流变得富有。
It would be foolish to invest faith in capitalists leading the charge for better lives for laborers, but even Henry Ford famously doubled the minimum wage on his lines, recognizing that “unless an industry can so manage itself as to keep wages high and prices low it destroys itself, for otherwise it limits the number of its customers.”
傻瓜才会认为资本家可以率先行动起来，让劳动者过上更好的生活，但就连亨利·福特(Henry Ford)也认识到，“一个行业如果不能维持高工资和低价格，就会自毁前程，因为低工资和高价格会限制客户的数量。”福特很出名的一件事，就是把自己公司生产线上最低工资标准提高了一倍。
Ford wanted his employees to buy his products; yet there are McDonald’s employees who can’t afford its food. (Or rent.) And that behemoth’s latest move, as it strives to become a “progressive burger company”? To buy back shares and give further profits to shareholders, rather than to raise wages throughout its system.
福特希望员工买得起自家的产品；但现在仍有麦当劳的员工承担不起麦当劳的食物（或房租）。庞大的麦当劳正在试图成为一个“进步的汉堡公司”，但它的最新举措又是什么呢？回购股票，让股东获得更多利润，而不是提高雇员工资。
President Obama’s attempt to raise the federal minimum wage to a still-paltry $10.10 is stalled. Last month, McDonald’s magnanimously gave 90,000 of its workers a one-dollar raise. Yet this month, Los Angeles raised the minimum for almost a million people by $6.
奥巴马总统试图把联邦最低工资标准提高到10.10美元，一直未获进展，尽管这个数字仍然很微薄。上个月，麦当劳慷慨地给9万员工加薪1美元。然而，本月初，洛杉矶把近百万人正在拿的最低薪资提高了6美元。