In 1977, a flood control measure on the ballot in Monterey, Calif., became what historians say was the first modern American election decided by people who voted before Election Day.
1977年，加利福尼亚州蒙特里市选票上的一项防洪措施被历史学家认为是现代美国选举中，首个在选举日之前就已被选民决定了的结果。
It was a strange moment even for some who participated; elections had traditionally been a kind of civic gathering, on one day.
即使对一些参与者来说，那也是一个不可思议的时刻；传统上的选举是公民在某天聚在一起做的事情。
But the practice caught on with voters, and it eventually spread from the West Coast to 37 states and the District of Columbia. Today, at least 43 million Americans have already voted in the presidential election. And when the ballots are tallied nationwide Tuesday evening, more than one-third of them will have come from people who voted early — a record.
但这种做法在选民中流行起来，最终从西海岸扩展到37个州和哥伦比亚特区。截至今天的大选日，至少有4300万美国人已经在总统选举中投了票。当周二晚统计全国选票时，三分之一强的选票将来自提前投票的选民，提前投票人数创下了记录。
Voting before Election Day has become so commonplace that it is reshaping how campaigns are waged, and how Americans see the race in its final, frantic days.
在选举日之前投票已经变得如此常见，这个现象正在重塑竞选战略、以及美国人在竞选的最后疯狂日子里对大选的看法。
“The idea that one wakes up and it’s Election Day in America is actually a rather quaint idea now,” said Russ Schriefer, a Republican consultant who has worked on presidential campaigns for two decades. “It is as much as a monthlong process to draw people in. And so your advertising tactics, your messaging tactics and certainly your ground game have changed completely.”
“早上醒来一看，今天是美国大选日的这种想法实际上已经有点稀奇古怪了，”共和党顾问拉斯·施里弗(Russ Schriefer)说，他从事总统竞选工作已有二十年了。“选举日已差不多是一个长达一个月的拉选票过程。因此，你的广告战术、你的传递信息战术，当然还有你的地面战术已完全改变了。”
The spread of early balloting is forging new habits that are forcing campaigns to rethink how they allocate their resources. And it tends to favor those campaigns that are more technologically sophisticated and can identify, draw out and measure its support over a longer voting period.
提前投票的扩大正在选民中形成新的习惯，迫使竞选班子重新思考如何分配资源。提前投票对技术更成熟的竞选班子有利，让这种班子可以在更长的投票时间里确认支持者、动员他们去投票，以及衡量支持的程度。
In Florida, a battleground state where just a few hundred votes can tip an election and victory can guarantee the White House, new behaviors are rapidly taking hold. Hispanics, who have tended to turn out mostly on Election Day, are voting earlier in much larger numbers this year, after a major Democratic-led effort to mobilize them. This is especially true among young and first-time Hispanic voters, who are just forming their voting habits and are likely to retain the practice of casting ballots early, according to those who study early voting.
佛罗里达州是竞选活动的一个主要战场，该州的结果可能由仅仅几百票之差决定，该州的获胜者可能入主白宫，提前投票的新习惯正在该州迅速蔓延。曾倾向于在大选日投票的西语裔，在民主党领导了一场大动员努力之后，今年参加提前投票的人数大增。在年轻的、以及第一次参加投票的西语裔选民中，提前投票者尤其多，据研究提前投票的人说，这些选民正在形成他们的投票习惯，很可能会保持早期投票的做法。
That will mean that future campaigns will need to further adapt and dedicate more time and money to chasing votes up to six weeks before Election Day.
这将意味着未来的竞选活动有必要进一步适应这种情况，最早在大选日的六周前就开始投入更多的时间和财力来拉投票。
Early voting has been expanding despite the political tensions that tend to infuse any debate over voting. Republicans often resist making voting more accessible — whether by opening more polling locations in the weeks before an election or allowing voters to mail in ballots — saying that the process could invite fraud. Republican-led legislatures in Ohio and North Carolina were successful in reducing early voting compared with 2012. Democrats, who generally favor fewer barriers and greater access, have sued to block those restrictions.
尽管有关投票方式的辩论充满了政治对立，但提前投票已经扩大开来。共和党人通常不想让投票变得更容易，表现在他们反对在选举日前的几周里开放更多的投票站、或允许选民邮寄选票，他们说让投票更容易可能会引发舞弊。与2012年相比，俄亥俄州和北卡罗来纳州的共和党领导的立法机构成功地减少了今年的提前投票。民主党人通常欢迎减少投票障碍、让参与投票变得更容易，他们已经起诉这两个州的限制措施，以阻止之。
For campaigns today, the availability of real-time data on who has voted and when allows a nimble operation to determine whether those likely to support the candidate have turned out and redirect resources accordingly. Hillary Clinton’s campaign has been particularly deft, scheduling concerts with Jennifer Lopez in Miami and Beyoncé in Cleveland, where Democrats have been focusing intensely on early turnout. The artists used the occasion not just to perform but to plead with fans to vote for Mrs. Clinton.
对如今的竞选来说，掌握了什么人已在何时投了票的实时数据，让灵活的竞选班子能确定那些可能支持候选人的选民是否已经投了票，并相应地调整资源。希拉里·克林顿的竞选班子在这方面尤其娴熟，他们在迈阿密举行詹妮弗·洛佩兹(Jennifer Lopez)的演唱会，在克利夫兰举行碧昂斯(Beyoncé)的演唱会，民主党人一直特别关注这两个地方的提前投票率。这两名歌手不只是表演，她们利用这个场合要求粉丝们投下支持克林顿的票。
For the voter, that early turnout data is now ubiquitously covered in the news media, adding a new dynamic to the campaign horse race punditry. Of course, the data is not exact: It can show how many registered Republicans, Democrats and unaffiliated voters have cast ballots from a particular area, allowing political analysts to deduce which candidate is probably ahead.
对选民来说，提前投票的数据目前还未受到新闻媒体无时无刻的报道，但已给竞选活动的评论员们增添了新内容。当然，提前投票的数据不准确：数据只显示在某个特定选区，有多少登记为共和党人的选民、多少登记为民主党人的选民，以及多少登记独立的选民已经投了票，这使政治分析人士得以推断哪位候选人可能领先。
Campaigns have long had access to similar data. But with much of the information now available on secretary of state websites all over the country, the tally of who is up and who is down in the early vote is breathlessly followed.
长期以来，竞选班子一直都能得到类似的数据。但如今，这类信息的大部分已经可以从全国各地的州务卿网站上获得，人们正在无比兴奋地跟踪着提前投票中谁领先、谁落后的统计。
“This information has gone from the war room into the newsroom,” said Paul Gronke, director of the early voter information center at Reed College. “We’ve gotten over the tipping point here in terms of the amount of coverage and attention dedicated to these numbers.”
“这些信息已经从竞选活动策划室进入了新闻编辑室，”里德学院的提前投票选民信息中心主任保罗·格荣克(Paul Gronke)说。“在针对这些数据的报道和注意力方面，我们已经越过了一个转折点。”
The availability of the information has led some prognosticators to declare races won or lost. Over the weekend in Nevada, one of the state’s top political commentators said it would be all but impossible for Donald J. Trump to beat Mrs. Clinton there given how many more registered Democrats had already cast ballots than Republicans.
有关提前投票的信息已让一些预言者宣布选举的胜负。上周末在内华达州，该州一名最主要的政治评论人士说，考虑到该州已经投了票的人中，登记为民主党人的选民数远远高于登记为共和党人的选民数，唐纳德·J·特朗普已几乎不可能在该州击败克林顿。
The rush to call a race before it is over raises difficult questions about whether having so much public information on early voting could interfere with elections.
大选结束之前急于宣布选举结果提出了一些难题，这么多的有关提前投票的公开信息是否可能会干扰选举。
“We don’t know what that could do to depress turnout,” Mr. Schriefer said.
施里弗说，“我们不知道这会不会降低投票率。”