MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin has been many things to President Obama: a partner at times, an irritant more often, the host of the elusive Edward J. Snowden and “the bored kid in the back of the classroom” who offered so little on the administration’s foreign policy goals that Mr. Obama canceled plans to hold a summit meeting in Moscow last week.
莫斯科——对于奥巴马来说，弗拉基米尔·普京已经扮演了多种角色：有时候是合作伙伴，更多的时候是捣乱者，还是难以抓获的爱德华·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的庇护人，以及“坐在教室后排的无聊孩子”：他对美国政府的外交政策目标提供的帮助如此之少，以至于奥巴马取消了原定上周在莫斯科举行的首脑会议。
Yet suddenly Mr. Putin has eclipsed Mr. Obama as the world leader driving the agenda in the Syria crisis. He is offering a potential, if still highly uncertain, alternative to what he has vocally criticized as America’s militarism and reasserted Russian interests in a region where it had been marginalized since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
然而，突然之间，普京令奥巴马在叙利亚危机中推动议程的“世界领袖”地位黯然失色。普京不仅出言批评美国搞军国主义，还提出了一个潜在的替代方案，即便该方案可能仍然有很大的不确定性。普京重申了俄罗斯在这个地区的利益，尽管自苏联解体以来，俄罗斯在该地区的地位已经边缘化。
Although circumstances could shift yet again, Mr. Putin appears to have achieved several objectives, largely at Washington’s expense. He has handed a diplomatic lifeline to his longtime ally Bashar al-Assad, who not long ago appeared at risk of losing power and who President Obama twice said must step down. He has stopped President Obama from going around the United Nations Security Council — where Russia holds a veto — to assert American priorities unilaterally.
虽然局面仍有可能再生变故，但普京似乎已经达成了一些目标，很大程度上是以华盛顿的受挫为代价。普京已经给其长期盟友巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)提供了一条外交生命线，就在不久前，阿萨德似乎还处在失势的风险中，奥巴马曾两次表示此人必须下台。普京还阻止了奥巴马绕过联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council )——俄罗斯在安理会拥有一票否决权——单边维护美国优先事务的做法。
More generally, Russia has at least for now made itself indispensable in containing the conflict in Syria, which Mr. Putin has argued could ignite Islamic unrest around the region — even as far as Russia’s own restive Muslim regions — if it is mismanaged. He has boxed Mr. Obama into treating Moscow as an essential partner for much of the next year, if Pentagon estimates of the time it will take to secure Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile are accurate.
更笼统地说，俄罗斯至少暂时成为了控制叙利亚冲突时不可或缺的国家。普京认为，如果处理不当，叙利亚冲突可能会使伊斯兰动荡出现在周边地区，甚至是远达俄罗斯境内的那些躁动不安的穆斯林地区。他让奥巴马不得不在来年的大部分时间里——如果五角大楼对搞定叙利亚化武库存所需的时间估算够准确的话——把莫斯科作为一个重要的合作伙伴来对待。
“Putin probably had his best day as president in years yesterday,” Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy, said in a conference call on Wednesday, “and I suspect he’s enjoying himself right now.”
“昨天可能是普京多年总统任期之中最风光的一天。” 本周三，政治风险顾问公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)总裁伊恩·布雷默(Ian Bremmer)在一个电话会议中说，“我估计，他现在正在自得其乐。”
In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times released on Wednesday, Mr. Putin laid down a strong challenge to Mr. Obama’s vision of how to address the turmoil, arguing that a military strike risked “spreading the conflict far beyond Syria’s borders” and would violate international law, undermining postwar stability.
在《纽约时报》周三刊发的一篇专栏文章中，普京对奥巴马应对这场风暴的思路提出了强有力的挑战，他认为，军事打击有风险，可能会“把冲突传播到远远超出叙利亚边界之外”，而且还会违反国际法，破坏战后的稳定。
“It is alarming that military intervention in internal conflicts in foreign countries has become commonplace for the United States,” Mr. Putin wrote. “Is it in America’s long-term interest? I doubt it.”
“令人担忧的是，对其他国家的内部冲突进行军事干预已经成为了美国的常态。 ”普京写道。 “这符合美国的长期利益吗？我很怀疑。 ”
When Mr. Putin returned to the presidency a year ago, he moved aggressively to stamp out a growing protest movement and silence competing and independent voices. He shored up his position at home but, as his government promoted nationalism with a hostile edge, passed antigay legislation, locked up illegal immigrants in a city camp, kept providing arms to the Syrian government and ultimately gave refuge to Mr. Snowden, Mr. Putin was increasingly seen in the West as a calloused, out-of-touch modern-day czar.
一年前再次就任总统之后，普京采取了强力措施，试图镇压一场日益壮大的抗议运动，禁止人们发出抗争和独立的声音。他的地位在本国得到了巩固，但是，随着他的政府推行带有敌意的民族主义，通过反同性恋的立法，把非法移民扣押在城里的一个营区，持续向叙利亚政府供应武器，最终还为斯诺登提供庇护，西方越来越认为普京是一位心如铁石、无可理喻的现代沙皇。
Now he appears to be relishing a role as a statesman. His spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said in an interview that the Russian president was not seeking “ownership of the initiative,” but only wanted to promote a political solution to head off a wider military conflict in the Middle East.
眼下，普京似乎正在享受政治家的角色。他的发言人德米特里·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)在一次采访中说，俄罗斯总统想要的不是“主导进程”，仅仅是希望推动政治解决方案，防止更大范围的军事冲突在中东爆发。
“It’s only the beginning of the road,” Mr. Peskov said, “but it’s a very important beginning.”
“这仅仅是这条道路的开端， ”佩斯科夫说， “但却是一个非常重要的开端。”
From the start of the war two and a half years ago, Russia has been Syria’s strongest backer, using its veto repeatedly to block any meaningful action at the United Nations Security Council. While Russia has ties to the country dating to the Soviet era, including its only naval base left outside of the former Soviet republics, Mr. Putin’s primary goal is not preserving Mr. Assad’s government — despite arms sales that account for billions of dollars — as much as thwarting what he considers to be unbridled American power to topple governments it opposes.
叙利亚内战始于两年半以前，从那时起，俄罗斯一直是叙利亚最有力的支持者，多次在联合国安理会行使否决权，阻止对叙利亚采取任何重大行动。俄罗斯自苏联时期便同叙利亚有诸多联系，包括其唯一一处设在前苏联加盟共和国之外的海军基地，此外，对叙利亚的武器销售也能带来数十亿美元的收入。尽管如此，普京的主要目的并不是保护阿萨德政府，更多是挫败美国的企图，因为他认为，美国这是在肆无忌惮地推翻自己反对的政府。
Mr. Putin’s defense of Syria — including continuing assertions that the rebels, not government forces, had used chemical weapons — has at times made him seem intent on opposing the United States regardless of any contrary facts or evidence. Russia has long had the support of China at the Security Council, but Mr. Putin had won support for his position by exploiting the divisions that appeared between the United States and its allies. That was especially true after Britain’s Parliament refused to endorse military action, a step Mr. Putin described as mature.
有时候，普京对叙利亚的维护，包括坚称使用化学武器的是反对派而非政府军，让人觉得他是在故意与美国较劲，不顾任何与自身立场相左的事实或证据。长期以来，中国一直在安理会上支持俄罗斯，不过，通过利用美国和盟友之间出现的分歧，普京还为自己的立场争取到了更多的支持。在英国议会拒绝批准军事行动后，这一点表现得尤其明显。普京称，英国议会的选择是成熟的举动。
Mr. Putin’s palpable hostility to what he views as the supersized influence of the United States around the world explains much of the anti-American sentiment that he and his supporters have stoked since he returned as president last year after serving four years as prime minister under his anointed successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev. It was under Mr. Medvedev that Russia abstained in a Security Council vote to authorize the NATO intervention in Libya that ultimately toppled that country’s dictator, Muammar el-Qaddafi. Mr. Putin has made it clear that he would not repeat what most here consider a mistake that unleashed a wave of extremism that has spread across the region.
对自己所谓的美国在全世界的超级影响力，普京怀有明显的敌意，这在很大程度上解释了他和他的支持者激起的反美情绪。去年，在自己指定的接班人德米特里·A·梅德韦杰夫(Dmitri A.Medvedev)手下担任了四年总理后，普京重回总统之位。自那以后，他和支持者一直在制造反美情绪。正是在梅德韦杰夫任内，俄罗斯就授权北约(NATO)介入利比亚事务的问题在联合国安理会投了弃权票，而北约的介入最终推翻了利比亚的独裁者穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)。普京已明确表示不会重蹈覆辙，因为俄罗斯的大部分人认为那次弃权是个错误，后果是一股已在该地区蔓延开来的极端主义浪潮。
For now, Mr. Putin succeeded in forcing the international debate over Syria back to the Security Council, where Russia’s veto gives it a voice in any international response. With Russia’s relations with Europe increasingly strained over economic pressure and political issues, the Security Council gives Russia a voice in shaping geopolitics.
目前，普京成功地迫使国际社会对叙利亚问题的讨论回到了安理会。在安理会上，俄罗斯的否决权让它能对国际社会的任何反应发表意见。在经济压力和政治问题致使俄罗斯同欧洲的关系日益紧张之时，安理会让俄罗斯获得了影响地缘政治的发言权。
At the same time, Mr. Putin carries the risk of Russia again having to veto any security resolution that would back up the international control over Syria’s weapons with the threat of force, as France proposed.
与此同时，普京也面临着一个风险，那就是俄罗斯又得被迫否决安理会的所有决议，只要这些决议像法国提议的那样，允许国际社会通过武力威胁来控制叙利亚的武器。
Not surprisingly, given the Kremlin’s control over most media here, Mr. Putin’s 11th-hour gambit was nonetheless widely applauded. “The Russian president has become a hero in the world these days,” the newscast of NTV began on Wednesday night before going on to note that Mr. Putin should be nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize if he averted the American strike.
考虑到克里姆林宫对俄罗斯大部分媒体的控制，不足为奇的是，普京最后一刻的策略赢得了广泛称赞。周三晚上，NTV的新闻节目说，“如今，俄罗斯总统成了全世界的英雄。”该新闻节目接着提到，如果普京阻止了美国的军事打击，就应该提名他为诺贝尔和平奖候选人。
There was also satisfaction that it was Mr. Putin who gave an American president whom he clearly distrusts a way out of a political and diplomatic crisis of his own making. Aleksei K. Pushkov, the chairman of chairman of the lower house of Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, wrote on Twitter that Mr. Obama should gratefully grab Russia’s proposal with “both hands.”
同样让俄罗斯人满意的是，是普京为他显然不信任的美国总统提供了一条出路，让后者能走出自己一手造成的政治和外交危机。议会下院外事委员会主席阿列克谢·普什科夫(Aleksei Pushkov)在Twitter上写道，奥巴马应该满怀感激地用“双手”接过俄罗斯的提议。
“It gives him a chance not to start another war, not to lose in the Congress and not to become the second Bush,” Mr. Pushkov said.
“这给了他一个机会，让他可以不发动另一场战争、不在国会失败、不成为第二个布什，”普什科夫说。