There was no poetry in the words delivered to a half-empty National Mall on Inauguration Day. But then, nobody expected a hint of verse or a well-turned phrase from President Donald J. Trump.
就职这天，唐纳德·J·特朗普(President Donald J. Trump)总统面对空着一半的国会广场上的人群发表演讲时，没有吟诵任何诗句。但话又说回来，谁都没期待他能表现出一丝诗意或者说出一个措辞巧妙的句子。
There were no historical allusions either — at least not direct ones — from a man who is defiantly truant in his knowledge of history.
轻视历史知识的他也没提及任何历史典故——至少是没直接提及。
And there were no concessions to the other side, the vanquished plurality of voters, the woman who missed her place in history, the outgoing president who kept his dignity to the last minute in office, his place in history intact.
此外，他没向另一方表现出任何妥协，其中包括战败了的多数选民，错失了名留青史机会的女人，以及直到任内最后一刻都保持了尊严，并让自己的历史地位完好无损的卸任总统。
What we got, coinciding with the first rain drops falling while Trump spoke to the nation he now leads, was a clenched fist — his own salute of nationalism and defiance, borrowed from political causes rooted in far different passions. He raised the fist while taking his place at the Capitol steps, and again at the close of a dark, soulless speech introducing himself as the leader of the free world.
雨滴刚刚开始从天空飘落的时候，特朗普对着他如今要领导的国家发表了演讲。而我们看到的是一只紧握的拳头，是他对民族主义和叛逆精神的敬礼——这两样东西来自不同的政治事业，它们发源于截然不同的激情。他在国会山前的台阶上站定时举起了拳头，在结束这场阴郁、乏味的演讲时再次举起了拳头——在这个演讲中，他把自己称为自由世界的领导人。
We might be able to ignore the fist had he mentioned liberty, the Constitution, equality for all, some joy note to American values. We might be able to give him a wider berth, an open heart, had he quoted Washington, from that humble first inaugural in 1789, or Lincoln, with his call to our better angels, or Kennedy’s plea for a patriotism of selflessness.
如果他提到了自由、宪法、人人平等，提到了某些令人振奋的美国价值观，那么我们或许可以忽略他的拳头。如果他引用了华盛顿(Washington)于1789年低调就任第一任总统时说的话，或者林肯(Lincoln)对人性中良善天使的呼唤，乃至肯尼迪(Kennedy)对无私爱国主义的呼吁，那么我们或许可以对他宽容一点。
No, what we got was the clenched fist, to go with the rhetorical one: America first to fix American carnage.
但我们只看到了握紧的拳头，只听到了那句夸夸其谈：以美国优先来解决美国的溃败。
The populist tone, from a man who lost the popular vote — “the day the people became the rulers of this nation again” — would be welcome, had not Trump brought to Washington a cabinet of the very wealthy and the very elite, a predators’ ball. Included among them is a Treasury nominee whose bank foreclosed on some of those Trump proclaims to speak for. And a labor pick who doesn’t believe fast food workers should earn a living wage. The nationalist tone — “buy American, and hire American” — would also be welcome had not Trump done the opposite to enrich himself over the years, from using Chinese steel in his hotels in Las Vegas to employing foreign workers for his properties in Florida.
对于这个失去了普选的人来说，要不是他为华盛顿带来一个由最富有者和顶级精英构成的内阁，带来一场掠夺者的狂欢，“这一天，美国人重新成为了国家的主宰者”这种民粹主义腔调说不定还会受欢迎——这个内阁当中有一位被提名为财政部长的人，他所拥有的银行曾对特朗普宣称代表的那些人行使止赎权；还有一位劳工部长的提名人，他不相信快餐产业的工人应该挣得最低工资。要不是特朗普多年来靠着说一套做一套获利，在建造拉斯维加斯的酒店时使用来自中国的钢材，在他位于佛罗里达州的物业雇用外国工人，那么“买美国的商品、雇美国的工人”这种民族主义腔调说不定还会受欢迎。
The chorus of nationalism in the speech — “From this day forward, it’s going to only be America first. America first” — might even be appealing, had it not those ugly echoes of history. Trump is no doubt ignorant that a similar phrase was used by isolationist, anti-Semitic Americans who aimed to appease Adolf Hitler as it was just becoming clear how much of a monster he would be.
要不是让人联想起历史上的丑陋时刻，这场演讲中的民族主义副歌段听上去甚至很吸引人——“从今以后只有美国优先。美国优先” 。特朗普显然不知道，一些奉行孤立主义和反犹太主义的美国人曾经说过类似的话，当事实逐渐清楚地表明阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)是个怎样的恶魔之际，这些人还在一味加以姑息。
Take Trump, as I’ve said before, not at his word, but for his actions. What we saw on Inauguration Day of the 45th president was the truest sign of how he will rule: not by extending an open hand, but by raising a clenched fist.
正如我以前所说的，评价特朗普时要看他做了什么，而不是说了什么。在第45任总统就职日这一天，我们看到了关于他将如何执政的最真切的提示：他不会伸出一只张开的手，而是会举起一只紧握的拳头。