That pinch you’re feeling when it comes to housing may be real.
当涉及到住房问题时，你所体会到的肉痛感可能是真实的。
The average price of an apartment in New York City has surpassed its last peak, 2008, before the recession hit and the housing market collapsed. And that new high, about $1.7 million in Manhattan, may cause potential buyers to draw in a sharp and painful breath.
纽约市的公寓均价，已超过了2008年经济衰退和住房市场崩溃之前的上一轮峰值。而此次曼哈顿创下的新高——170万美元（约合人民币1060万元）左右的公寓均价，将使那些潜在购房者痛苦地倒抽一大口凉气。
Even median prices, which better reflect what’s going on outside the luxury market in buildings that aren’t snazzy Midtown spires, may prompt shock.
而房价中值，则更能体现豪华住宅市场以外的楼市动向。它所代表的楼盘并非时髦的中城(Midtown)尖顶建筑；但是即便是中值水平的房价，也可能会让人大吃一惊。
According to the Corcoran Group, the real estate brokerage, the median price of all apartments in Manhattan is now $916,000. The median price of a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan is $710,000.
根据房地产经纪公司柯克兰集团(Corcoran Group)的数据，曼哈顿所有公寓的价格中值，目前是91.6万美元（约合人民币571万元）；其中一居室公寓的价格中值为71万美元（约合人民币443万元）。
But median doesn’t have to mean mundane. Surprising results can be achieved if, say, $750,000 is deployed creatively in the resale marketplace, whether in Manhattan or the outer boroughs. After all, many prospective buyers prefer to stay in New York City rather than decamp to the suburbs.
但中值并不一定意味着中庸。比方说，如果在二手房市场里花点心思运筹一笔75万美元（约合人民币468万元）的预算，那么无论是在曼哈顿还是外围行政区，都有可能得到惊人的收获。毕竟，许多潜在购房者更愿意留在纽约市，而不是逃到郊区去。
“It’s so much cheaper here, and you get so much more for your money,” said Cosimo Tacopino, a salesman with Neuhaus Realty in Staten Island, making a pitch for a house facing a leafy park in Tottenville.
斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)一家房产经纪公司Neuhaus Realty的销售员科西莫·塔科皮诺(Cosimo Tacopino)说，“这里的房价要便宜得多，而且你花同样的价钱得到的东西也要多得多。”他正在推销托滕维尔(Tottenville)一套面朝一座绿树成荫的公园的房产。
But Mr. Tacopino’s words could easily apply to several other listings in the city.
但是，塔科皮诺的话，也可以轻而易举地套用在纽约市其他若干套挂牌住宅上。
If Manhattan is indeed becoming a moated retreat for gazillionaires, the most affluent neighborhoods would seem to be a no-go zone.
如果曼哈顿真的正在成为超级富豪们的世外桃源，那么最富裕的社区似乎将变成一个可望而不可及的禁区。
But if prospective buyers are willing to give up the luxury of simply turning a key and moving right in, and able to commit to a renovation, they could come away with an address in a coveted neighborhood.
但是，如果潜在购房者愿意放弃拎包入住的奢求，而能接受需要装修的住房的话，那么热门社区中的某些房源，仍值得考虑。
In early January, a prewar studio requiring a kitchen renovation, for instance, was for sale in the West Village for $725,000.
举个例子，一月初，西村有一套厨房需要装修的战前单间公寓，以72.5万美元（约合人民币452万元）的价格售出。
At 99 Bank Street, a brick printing plant turned residential co-op, the apartment, No. 5-S, offers wood floors, 10-foot ceilings and ample light, courtesy of views to the west along Greenwich Street. The windowless kitchen, though, is dingy, with few counters. A tiny dishwasher sat atop one of them.
这套房子位于银行街(Bank Street)99号，一栋由砖砌印刷厂改建而来的合作公寓楼内，门牌号是5-S。室内铺设着木地板，内有10英尺（约合3米）高的天花板，光线充足，西面可以看到格林尼治街(Greenwich Street)的街景。只不过厨房没有窗户，光线昏暗，其中的橱柜也很少。其中一个柜子上方装了一台很小的洗碗机。
But for views over meticulously maintained rowhouses in a landmark district, on a street paved with stones, and proximity to trendy restaurants and Hudson River Park, the extra cost of putting the kitchen to rights might be worth it, said Katherine Salyi, the saleswoman at Nest Seekers International who is listing the apartment.
但是，该公寓的挂牌经纪人、Nest Seekers International的销售员凯瑟琳·萨尔伊(Katherine Salyi)说，这是一套景观房——从屋内可观赏到地标性历史街区内那些精心维护的联排别墅，而且房子坐落在一条石铺街道上，靠近时尚餐厅和哈得逊河公园(Hudson River Park)，因此，额外花些钱将厨房装修利落，或许还是值得的。
“It’s a fairly small apartment that needs some work in an amazing location,” Ms. Salyi said, adding that “there’s not a lot on the market, and what is, is very expensive.”
“这是一套地段极佳的小公寓，需要一定的装修，”萨尔伊表示，随即她补充说，“这样的房源在市场上并不多，只要是上市的房源都很贵。”
In the past 12 months in the West Village, the median sale price of all co-ops and condos was $1.5 million, according to StreetEasy.com, the real estate website.
根据房地产网站StreetEasy.com的数据，在过去12个月，西村全部合作公寓和共管公寓的售价中值为150万美元（约合人民币936万元）。
Buyers might benefit from considering other properties at 99 Bank. Since apartments in the 126-unit six-story building don’t turn over that often, Ms. Salyi said, some have dated kitchens and baths, possibly qualifying them — and pricing them — as fixer-uppers.
购房者还可以考虑银行街99号的其他房产，或许也会受益。那栋大楼共六层，包含126个单元。萨尔伊表示，由于该楼盘的公寓并不经常转手，有些房产的厨房和浴室已年久失修，因此可能会被定性为待修缮住宅——这一点也会反映在定价上。
For $750,000, buyers expect a one-bedroom to have certain things, including distinct places to cook and shower; and a door separating the living area and the bed. The veteran apartment hunter also might tend to assume a one-bedroom will have less than 1,000 square feet.
对于要价在75万美元的一居室公寓，购房者们的预期是，它应该配有专门的厨房和浴室；还要有一扇门，隔开客厅区和床铺。经验丰富的找房者可能还会认为，一套一居室的面积应该在1000平方英尺（约合93平方米）以内。
Which is why a listing for $679,000 for a prewar co-op at 115 Payson Avenue was so arresting. For that sum, No. 3E-F packs in not one but three bedrooms and about 1,470 square feet. The apartment, in an Art Deco elevator building, is in the coveted and often pricey 212 area code, in the neighborhood of Inwood, at Manhattan’s northernmost tip.
正因如此，佩森大道(Payson Avenue)115号的一套挂牌价67.9万美元（约合人民币423万元）的战前合作公寓，就尤为引人注目。虽然标价是这么多，但3E-F号公寓并非一居室，而是三居室的公寓，面积约为1470平方英尺（约合137平方米）。其所在楼盘为一栋装饰艺术风格(Art Deco)的带电梯高楼，地处令人垂涎且往往价格高昂的地区——区号为“212”的范围，靠近因伍德(Inwood)，在曼哈顿的最北端。
The apartment has two full baths, several closets and original details like sunken floors edged with metal railings. No. 3E-F is actually a pair of combined units, a studio and a two-bedroom, which in some ways has produced an awkward layout. Earlier this month, the studio’s former kitchen, still tiled, sat empty, awaiting a use.
这套公寓带有两间全浴室和好几个壁橱，保留了原有的细节，比如周边围着金属栏杆的下沉式地面。3E-F号公寓实际上是合并了两个单元——一套单间和一套两居室公寓。从某种程度上讲，这也导致房屋的布局变得有些尴尬。本月早些时候，单间公寓从前的厨房被清空，以备新用，里面还贴着面砖。
But the space, which features lots of curves — ceiling beams, arches over doorways — seemed roomy enough to allow for a redesign project without dislodging the residents.
不过，室内空间中包含天花板横梁、拱门等大量曲线元素，看起来仍足够宽敞，因此住户无需搬走，即可开展重装设计工作。
Striking out away from the heart of Manhattan is a time-tested strategy for finding more space, and it still works.
要想寻找更宽敞的住宅，远离曼哈顿的心脏地带是个经久不衰的策略，它现在依然有效。
Of the 165 co-ops and condos in a StreetEasy search that provided square footage, the 12 with 1,000 feet or more were in Harlem, or north of it. But while some outlying areas are isolated or low on stores and services, Inwood is a well-established residential enclave, with block after block of grand apartment buildings, and lively retail areas along Broadway and on Dyckman Street.
从StreetEasy上可搜索到165套提供了面积信息的合作公寓和共管公寓。在这165套房源中，有12套面积1000平方英尺以上的房源，位于哈莱姆区(Harlem)及其以北。虽然一些边远地区的交通不便、商店稀少、服务较差，但茵伍德是一个老居住区，宏伟的公寓楼林立于一片片街区内，百老汇沿途和迪克曼街(Dyckman Street)上，分布着熙熙攘攘的零售商业区。
Yet the most endearing feature of the neighborhood, many residents say, is its generous park acreage, an example of which looms out of 115 Payson’s windows. Across the street from the building is a steep rock-strewn slope that is part of Inwood Hill Park, which had the look of a Currier and Ives print on a recent snowy afternoon.
但是，许多居民表示，这个社区最深入人心的特色在于，其公园面积广阔。佩森大道115号的窗外就有广阔的园景。在该楼盘的街对面，有一座布满岩石的陡坡，属于因伍德山公园(Inwood Hill Park)。最近，在一个白雪皑皑的下午，因伍德山公园的景色看上去就像柯里尔与艾夫斯公司(Currier and Ives)推出的版画。
Steve Stampleman, a salesman at New Heights Realty, the brokerage that has the Payson Avenue listing, said there’s nothing quite like the park in Manhattan.
为佩森大道99号3E-F室发布挂牌信息，是New Heights Realty经纪公司。其销售员史蒂夫·斯坦普尔曼(Steve Stampleman)表示，这样的公园在曼哈顿绝无仅有。
“I call it my private Central Park,” said Mr. Stampleman, who has lived in Inwood since the early 1970s, “without the mass of humanity.”
“我把它叫做我的私人中央公园，”斯坦普尔曼说，他从20世纪70年代初开始，一直住在因伍德，“那里的游人不像中央公园那么多。”
If you really want to stretch your money, of course, you could do what people have done for years, at least until Brooklyn got so fashionable: Head for the other boroughs.
当然了，如果你真的想精打细算，细水长流，那么可以去别的行政区。至少在布鲁克林变得如此时尚之前，人们多年来都是这么做的。
These days it’s not as easy as taking a subway one stop from the old neighborhood, entering a new ZIP code and finding a discounted apartment, brokers say. Close-in neighborhoods, including Long Island City in Queens, have crept close to some parts of Manhattan in terms of price.
经纪人表示，近一段时间，从老社区坐一站地铁，进入新的邮政编码区寻找价格低廉的公寓，已经没那么容易了。包括皇后区(Queens)长岛市(Long Island City)在内的、距离较近的社区，在房价方面已经在向曼哈顿的部分地段悄然靠拢了。
Another consideration: Some areas are dominated by rentals, particularly in the Bronx. Although affluent sections like Riverdale, in the northwestern corner, offer co-ops, condos and single-family houses, opportunities elsewhere favor the purchase of, say, three-family semidetached brick houses.
另一个可资考虑的选项：有些地区以出租房为主，特别是在布朗克斯(Bronx)。虽然有些富裕地段——比如西北角的里弗代尔(Riverdale)，也提供合作公寓、共管公寓和单户式的独栋别墅；但在其他地方，三户式独栋砖瓦别墅这类房型的购买机会比较多。
A search of the Bronx on The New York Times real estate website earlier this month produced 23 listings between $650,000 and $750,000, mostly for co-ops, condos and single-family houses, and most, or 19, were in Riverdale or neighborhoods often considered to be part of it, like Fieldston.
本月（1月——译注）早些时候，在《纽约时报》房地产网站上搜索“布朗克斯”，可以查到23套价格在65到75万美元（约合人民币405到468万元）的挂牌房源，它们以合作公寓、共管公寓和单户式住宅居多，其中大多数（19套）房源要么位于里弗代尔，要么位于菲尔德斯顿(Fieldston)这类社区（它们往往被视为里弗代尔的一部分）。
But for somebody willing to consider a property that turns him or her into a landlord, the list of for-sale properties in the Bronx also included Locust Point, a waterside finger of land in the Throgs Neck section.
但是，对于愿意考虑购买房产用来出租的人来说，在布朗克斯可资选择的购房地段还包括Locust Point，这是窄颈(Throgs Neck)地区的一小块滨水地带。
Listed at $719,000, a two-family house there at 3258 Giegerich Place has three bedrooms in each apartment. It is actually an expansion of a single-story bungalow, examples of which still dot its densely packed street. Wood floors and flowing rooms are tucked behind bland siding; so are washers and dryers, in both units.
在那里，吉格里希广场(Giegerich Place)3258号有一栋两户式别墅，挂牌价为71.9万美元（约合人民币448万元），其中的每套公寓都有三间卧室。它其实是由一座单层平房扩建而来的。在那条人口稠密的街道上，依然星星点点地分布着那样的平房。木地板和空间贯穿的房间，藏在不起眼的壁板背后；两套单元里也都配备了洗衣机和烘干机。
What little backyard there is on the tiny property had been covered by a deck, though that also allowed for a pool, a hot tub and a granite-topped bar.
后院里铺着甲板木，虽然面积很小，但也设有一座游泳池、一个热水浴缸和一座花岗岩吧台。
To be fair, the area is remote. A single road leads in and out, past a hanging wood sign adorned with a dinghy, though an express bus, the BxM9, stops a few blocks away and makes the run to Fifth Avenue in Midtown in about 40 minutes.
公允地说，这个地区比较偏远，进出只有一条路，中途悬挂着一块装饰着小艇的木标志牌。不过，有一班快速公交BxM9线，在位于几个街区之外的一处站点经停，乘坐这班车大约40分钟就可到达中城区的第五大道(Fifth Avenue)。
But that faraway feel has upsides. Positioned where the East River spills into Long Island Sound, Locust Point offers views of glittering waves, as well as less organic though still enchanting sights, like the tall towers that suspend the Throgs Neck Bridge.
但是，这种偏远感自有其好处。Locust Point地处东河与长岛海峡(Long Island Sound)的交汇处，从这里可以欣赏波光潋滟的海景。还有一些景观虽非浑然天成，但也依然不失迷人，比如窄颈大桥(Throgs Neck Bridge)的高塔。
“They can have space here, they can have storage, they can have kids,” said Clarissa Rosado, a saleswoman with Re/Max Prime Properties in Scarsdale, who added that the unit on the ground floor of 3258 Giegerich Place now rents for $1,500 a month but could command $1,800.
“买家在这里可以住得宽敞，可以拥有储物空间，可以带孩子，”斯卡斯代尔(Scarsdale)Re/Max Prime Properties房产公司的销售员克拉丽莎·罗萨多(Clarissa Rosado)表示，随即她补充说，吉格里希广场3258号一楼的那个单元，现在月租是1500美元（约合人民币9355元），但可以涨到1800美元（约合人民币11226元）。
“There’s no more space in Brooklyn,” she said. “There’s no more space in Queens.”
“布鲁克林已经找不到房子了，”她说，“皇后区也是。”
Suburbia in the city? The phrase gets thrown around a lot, whether referring to the colorful colonials of Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, the Tudors of Jamaica Estates, Queens, or even, oddly, the ranch houses of Crotona Park East, in the Bronx, which rose from the rubble of burned-out buildings.
城市中的郊区？这样的说法经常被抛出，无论是用来形容布鲁克林多姿多彩的殖民风格住宅区——迪马斯公园(Ditmas Park)，还是用来指代皇后区都铎风格的牙买加庄园(Jamaica Estates)。奇怪的是，就连布朗克斯的克罗托那公园东区(Crotona Park East)的农庄式住房，也被冠上了这样的名号。而这些房子是在已烧毁建筑的废墟上重建起来的。
But block for block, the subdivided vibe of Staten Island, with its modest midcentury homes with driveways and garages, easily recalls a bedroom community in New Jersey or Connecticut.
但是斯塔顿岛给人一种割裂感。一片又一片街区上坐落着上世纪中叶的住宅，这些住宅朴实无华，带有车道和车库，很容易让人联想到新泽西州或康涅狄格州的“睡城”。
If a buyer can shake off preconceptions about how vertical New York is supposed to look, then it might seem reasonable to park that $750,000 in a place that’s far more low-slung, like on the western side of the Verrazano Bridge.
如果购房者可以抛开“在纽约就应该住高楼”的成见，那么，花75万美元在一个楼层低得多的地区买房——比如维拉萨诺大桥(Verrazano Bridge)西侧，似乎是个合理的选择。
Just don’t expect to go clubbing. “Young people don’t really want to come out here, because there’s no action,” said Mr. Tacopino, the Neuhaus agent. But, he added, “when you are finally willing to settle down, and still be in the city, but apart from the hustle and bustle, then this is the place.”
只是，不要指望有酒吧可去。“住在这里的年轻人真的不爱出门，因为没有活动，”Neuhaus公司的经纪人塔科皮诺说。但他又补充道，“如果你最终愿意安顿下来，而且还想待在市区，但又不想生活在喧嚣的地方，那么这里很适合你。”
His listing, No. 149 Satterlee Street, that house in Tottenville, is an aluminum-sided raised ranch on a quiet block.
他的挂牌房源——萨特利街(Satterlee Street)149号就位于托滕维尔，是一套装有铝壁板的两层农庄式住房(raised ranch)，坐落在一个安静的街区。
Listed at $739,900, the early 1980s house has three bedrooms, two baths and a breakfast nook with a skylight, as well as a wood-burning fireplace in its family room. The ranch faces Conference House Park, a 265-acre waterside spread that was the site of peace talks during the Revolutionary War.
这套房子的挂牌价为73.99万美元（约合人民币461万元），始建于20世纪80年代初，带有三间卧室、两间浴室、一间带天窗的早餐室，家庭娱乐室内还配备了一座燃木壁炉。房子对面就是会议楼公园(Conference House Park)——一座占地265英亩（约合107公顷）的滨水公园，它曾是美国独立战争期间的和谈地点。
The park, which has beaches and winding trails, and views to Perth Amboy, N.J., also includes a post marking New York State’s southernmost point. Being so close to the water, though, carries risks. Many blocks in Tottenville and Staten Island’s south shore were slammed by Hurricane Sandy in 2012, resulting in deaths, though No. 149 Satterlee was spared by its perch on high ground.
公园里有海滩和蜿蜒曲折的小径，坐拥新泽西州珀斯安博伊(Perth Amboy)的景观，还有一根标志着纽约州最南端的立柱。只不过，离水这么近也是有风险的。2012年，托滕维尔和斯塔顿岛南岸有许多街区遭受了飓风“桑迪”的猛烈袭击，造成人员伤亡。只不过，萨特利街149号因地势较高而幸免于难。
For buyers whose impression of the housing stock in Queens is based on what they have seen from the window of a speeding cab en route to or from La Guardia Airport, Douglas Manor will come as an eye-opener.
当购房者乘坐一辆飞驰的出租车，前往或离开拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia Airport)时，一路上可以透过车窗看到皇后区的景观。如果他们对该区现有房产的印象来源于此，那么道格拉斯庄园(Douglas Manor)定会让他们大开眼界。
Wood-frame homes from the early 20th century, in Arts and Crafts, Mediterranean and Tudor styles, nestle on a point ringed with water, and seem to have more in common with the moneyed communities of the North Shore of Long Island — a not-too-strenuous rowboat ride away — than the humdrum attached brick offerings by the Grand Central Parkway.
几栋20世纪初的木结构住宅，坐落在一小片环水地带，呈现出工艺美术风格(Arts and Crafts)、地中海风格和都铎风格。比起大中央快速车道(Grand Central Parkway)附近的那些不起眼的、带附属建筑的砖砌住宅，它们似乎与长岛北岸(North Shore)的富裕社区拥有更多共同点。从这里乘坐划艇去北岸也不算太远。
“Buyers are surprised that this is still Queens,” said Ann Carlucci, an associate broker with Daniel Gale Sotheby’s International Realty who often works in the area.
丹尼尔·盖尔苏富比国际地产(Daniel Gale Sotheby’s International Realty)的助理经纪人安·卡尔卢奇(Ann Carlucci)说，“买家们觉得很稀奇，没想到这里还是皇后区。”卡尔卢奇经常打理本地区的业务。
Along those same lines, this is not a part of Queens where that $750,000 will go too far. Few of the elegant manorlike houses here sell for less than $1 million, and prices of $2 million to $4 million are not uncommon.
这些地带不比皇后区的其他地方，75万美元买不到什么好房子。在这里，如庄园一般的精美别墅很少以低于100万美元（约合人民币624万元）的价格出售；200万到400万美元（约合人民币1247到2495万元）的房价也并不少见。
But to squeeze into this area, where social life for some residents involves swimming and swatting tennis balls at the private Douglaston Club, a buyer might consider purchasing an outbuilding of a historic estate.
但是要想挤进这个地区，购房者或许可以考虑购置一处历史房产的附属建筑。在这里，一些居民的社交生活包括在私人会所道格拉斯顿俱乐部(Douglaston Club)里游泳和打网球。
One such property was on the market earlier this month for $728,000. The one-bedroom stucco cottage at 320 Kenmore Road was once the garage of the handsome six-bedroom Tudor mansion next door.
有一套这样的房产，已于本月早些时候上市，售价是72.8万美元（约合人民币454万元）。这套一居室灰泥墙小屋位于肯莫尔街(Kenmore Road)320号，以前是隔壁那套气派的六居室都铎风格豪宅的车库。
The space isn’t voluminous, but it is cozy. A well-equipped kitchen has been installed in a corner; the upstairs, with a glimpse of Little Neck Bay — in winter, at least — easily accommodates a queen-size bed.
这套房子空间不是很大，但很温馨。一间设备齐全的厨房设在一角；楼上（至少在冬天）可以一瞥窄颈湾(Little Neck Bay)的景观，还可以轻而易举地放下一张大双人床。
And from the living room, French doors open to a wide stone patio that seems to have replaced part of a driveway.
客厅的法式对开门通向一座宽敞的石头庭院，看起来已经取代了部分车道。
Families might find the cottage a tight fit; older people may not like the stairs leading to the sole bathroom upstairs. Also, the building nuzzles the Tudor mansion, so a harmonious relationship with the neighbors is probably required.
如果是一家人住在这栋小屋里，可能会觉得有点拥挤；而且浴室只有一个，去浴室还得爬楼梯，这一点老年人可能会不喜欢。此外，这套房子紧挨着隔壁的都铎式豪宅，因此住户可能需要维持和谐的邻里关系。
Unless, of course, the buyer is crabby and rich, and also snaps up the big house, for sale for $2,998,000, as well as the lot on the other side of it, No. 300; the three properties altogether cost about $4.7 million.
当然，这些对于有钱、任性的购房者来说就不是问题了。他们可以一并买下那套售价299.8万美元（约合人民币1870万元）的大别墅，及其另一侧的肯莫尔街300号；这三套房产总共要价470万美元（约合人民币2931万元）。
Much ink has been spilled in recent months about how Kings County has pulled even, in terms of price, with Manhattan, and even raced ahead in some places. And measured a certain way, either looking at monthly rents or sale prices, there are recent examples of an apartment in popular Dumbo, say, trading for more than a similar one across the East River.
近几个月来，有个现象引起了人们的热议：国王郡（Kings County，即布鲁克林的别称——译注）的房价已经与曼哈顿齐平，有些地段甚至超过了曼哈顿。按照一定的衡量方式，无论是从月租金还是从售价上看，热门的邓波区(Dumbo)最近出现了一些高价房源，它们的房价超过了东河对岸等地的类似房源。
But over all, Brooklyn still seems to offer discounts. The median price of a resale condo there in the fourth quarter of last year was $690,000, according to a Douglas Elliman market report. Even though that figure was up 7 percent from a year ago, it still trailed Manhattan, where the median in the fourth quarter was $1.4 million. A less official analysis of one-bedroom listings suggested the same: For a similar amount of money, buyers can snap up more square footage in prime neighborhoods in Brooklyn than in most of Manhattan.
不过，总体而言，布鲁克林似乎依然在提供优惠的房源。根据道格拉斯·艾丽曼房地产公司(Douglas Elliman)的一份市场报告，去年第四季度，曼哈顿二手共管公寓的房价中值是69万美元（约合人民币430万元）。尽管这一数字相比一年前上升了7%，但依然低于同期曼哈顿140万美元（约合人民币873万元）的房价中值。一项关于一居室挂牌房源的非正式分析，也得出了相同结论：差不多的价钱，在布鲁克林优质社区能买到的房子，比在曼哈顿的多数社区所能找到的宽敞。
And increasingly, Brooklyn provides the types of condos that Manhattan has constructed for years. So if a buyer has a heart set on recent construction loaded with amenities, this goal might be satisfied in Brooklyn for a little less cash.
而且，同样是共管公寓，布鲁克林正在提供越来越多的新房源，而曼哈顿的大多是老房子。因此，如果购房者一心想要购置设施齐全的新建房，那么这个目标或许可在布鲁克林实现，而且花销会比在曼哈顿买房略低一点。
Among the options was a one-bedroom one-bath unit at Clermont Greene, a 74-unit condo at 181 Clermont Avenue in the Fort Greene neighborhood. This apartment’s 750 square feet includes nine-and-a-half-foot-tall ceilings and a walk-in master closet; there’s also a narrow balcony. The unit, No. 204, was listed earlier this month at $750,000, or about $1,000 a square foot.
可供考虑的房源之一，有位于克莱蒙-格林(Clermont Greene)大楼内的一套一室一卫单元。该共管公寓大楼包含74个单元，位于格林堡(Fort Greene)社区中克莱蒙大道(Clermont Avenue)181号。这套公寓面积750平方英尺（约合70平方米），天花板高9.5英尺（约合2.9米），主卧里有一个步入式衣橱；还配备了一座狭长的阳台。这套房号是204的单元已于本月（1月——译注）早些时候上市，挂牌价75万美元，即每平方英尺1000美元（约合每平方米6.9万元）。
Clad in gray metal panels, the 2007 condo, which actually consists of two buildings wrapping a landscaped courtyard, stands in sharp contrast to the historic brick and brownstone structures across the street. “This is kind of unique,” said Diny Ajamian, a saleswoman with Douglas Elliman, on a recent tour. “It’s juxtaposed against all these turn-of-the-century rowhouses.”
这处装有灰色金属壁板的共管公寓楼盘，始建于2007年，其实包含两栋楼，楼体环绕着一座优美的庭院，与街对面历史悠久的砖砌建筑和褐石建筑，形成了鲜明对比。“这里挺独特的，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼的销售员蒂尼·阿贾米安(Diny Ajamian)在最近一次看房时说，“它与这些世纪初的联排住宅形成了对照。”
Those differences extend to the lobby, which offers a video screen that alerts residents if they have waiting packages or dry cleaning. There’s also a gym, a seasonal rooftop garden and a parking garage, though it has a waiting list.
这些差别，也延伸到了大堂里。该楼盘的大堂内有一个电子显示屏，能提醒居民是否有待收包裹或干洗衣物。楼内还设有一间健身房、一座季节性的屋顶花园和一处停车库，不过目前需排队等待名额。