We are now being forced to relive the decades-old sex scandals of Bill Clinton, as Donald Trump tries desperately to shield and inoculate himself from well-earned charges of misogyny.
现在我们要被迫重温比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)几十年前的性丑闻了，因为唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)这位实至名归的女性歧视者，正不顾一切要让自己躲避和洗脱这个称号。
I say, if we must go there, let’s go all the way. Let’s do this dirty laundry, as Kelly Rowland, former Destiny’s Child, once crooned.
要我说，非要重温的话，那就来个彻底的。正如前天命真女(Destiny’s Child)成员凯莉·罗兰(Kelly Rowland)曾深情款款地唱道，“来洗洗脏衣服吧。”
First, multiple women have accused Clinton of things ranging from sexual misconduct to rape. Paula Jones famously brought a sexual harassment case against Clinton. The case was dismissed, but on appeal, faced with the prospect of having to testify under oath, Clinton settled the case out of court.
首先，多名女性曾对克林顿提出指控，事由从性行为不端到强奸不一而足。葆拉·琼斯(Paula Jones)告克林顿性骚扰一案很出名。该案被撤销后原告上诉，考虑到可能要宣誓作证，克林顿选择了庭外和解。
Clinton has maintained that he had inappropriate sexual relationships with only two women: Gennifer Flowers, a model and actress, and Monica Lewinsky, a White House intern.
克林顿一直坚称他只和两名女性有过不正当的性关系：模特兼演员珍妮弗·弗劳尔斯(Gennifer Flowers)，以及白宫实习生莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)。
Clinton was impeached on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice in connection with his affair with Lewinsky.
克林顿被指控在与莱温斯基的婚外情一事上作伪证和妨碍司法公正，并因此遭到弹劾。
Let’s just say this: Clinton was as wrong as the day is long for his affairs. There is no way around that.
这么说吧：克林顿的这些风流帐是很不应该的。这一点是无法回避的。
But the problem was that many of the men condemning the beam in Clinton’s eye were then shown to have one in their own.
但问题是，许多拿克林顿的错大做文章的男人，后来被人发现，他们也没那么干净。
Newt Gingrich, who was so incredibly disliked that he stepped down not only from his speakership in the House of Representatives, but also from Congress altogether, later admitted cheating on his first wife (with whom he discussed divorce terms while she was in the hospital for cancer) and on his second (that cheating occurred while Gingrich led the Clinton impeachment proceedings).
纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)因为太不招人待见，不但辞去了众议院议长之职，连议员的身份也没了。此人后来承认自己对两任妻子不忠，他和当时住院治疗癌症的第一任妻子商讨了离婚条件，而在背着第二任妻子偷情时，他正在领导弹劾克林顿的行动。
Into the void created by Gingrich’s departure stepped speaker-to-be Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana.
为了填补金里奇留下的空白，路易斯安那州的罗伯特·L·利文斯顿(Robert L. Livingston)本将成为下一任议长。
But, as The Chicago Tribune reported at the time:
然而，据《芝加哥论坛报》(The Chicago Tribune)当时的报道：
“On the eve of the House debate to impeach President Clinton for lying about sex with Monica Lewinsky, House Speaker-elect Bob Livingston told his Republican colleagues Thursday night that he had strayed from his marriage and had adulterous affairs. Only a few hours after Livingston decided to proceed with the impeachment debate despite U.S. forces being engaged in hostilities in Iraq, he admitted in a G.O.P. caucus that he had “on occasion” committed infidelity and in ‘doing so nearly cost me my marriage and family.’”
“众议院眼看就要开始一场辩论，决定是否弹劾在莫妮卡·莱温斯基性丑闻中撒谎的克林顿，候任议长鲍勃·利文斯顿却在周四晚对他的共和党同仁说，他在婚姻中出轨，存在通奸行为。而就在那之前几个小时，利文斯顿罔顾美国军队在伊拉克正陷入冲突，同意就弹劾案展开辩论。”当时，他在一个共和党党团会议中承认，他此前“间或”有不忠行为，而‘这差点让他失去了婚姻和家庭’”。
And Livingston wasn’t the only Republican moving to impeach Clinton for lying about a sexual affair who would be forced out of the shadows for his own sexual scandals.
然而像这样主张克林顿因在一桩婚外情上撒谎而要受到弹劾，自己后来却也被迫承认有性丑闻的共和党人，还不止利文斯顿一人。
J. Dennis Hastert, who became speaker in 1999, pleaded guilty last year to illegally structuring bank withdrawals in order to pay what prosecutors contend was hush money to a man Hastert had sexually abused as a child. Indeed, as The Times reported in April, federal prosecutors asserted that Hastert “molested at least four boys, as young as 14, when he worked as a high school wrestling coach decades ago,” before the Clinton impeachment hearings.
在1999年成为议长的J·丹尼斯·哈斯泰特(J. Dennis Hastert)，去年承认自己非法拆分提款，以便支付给一名男子。检方称，该男子在童年时曾遭到哈斯泰特的性侵，那笔钱是给他的封口费。事实上据时报在四月的报道，联邦检察官称哈斯泰特“在数十年前担任高中摔跤教练期间，猥亵了至少四名男童，最小的14岁，”而那是在克林顿弹劾听证会之前的事了。
Henry Hyde, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, who The Times reported had raised “the specter of the Watergate era” when discussing Clinton, admitted to a journalist during the proceedings that he’d had a five-year affair with a married woman decades earlier.
时报还曾报道，众议院司法委员会(Judiciary Committee)主席亨利·海德(Henry Hyde)召来了“水门时代的幽灵”，但在弹劾过程中，他向一名记者承认，自己几十年前曾与一名已婚女性保持了五年的婚外情。
Dan Burton, House Government Reform and Oversight Committee chairman, who The Washington Post described as “one of President Clinton’s most persistent and combative critics,” was forced to admit that he had a secret love child.
众议院监管和政府改革委员会(House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform)主席丹·伯顿(Dan Burton)被《华盛顿邮报》称为“克林顿总统最顽强、最好斗的批评者之一”，他被迫承认自己有一个不为人知的私生子。
And, just last week, The Times reported:
就在上周，时报还报道：
“Kenneth W. Starr, the former independent counsel who delivered a report that served as the basis for President Bill Clinton’s impeachment in 1998, was removed as president of Baylor University on Thursday after an investigation found the university mishandled accusations of sexual assault against football players.”
“前独立检察官肯尼斯·W·斯塔尔(Kenneth W. Starr)，也就是作为1998年比尔·克林顿总统弹劾程序依据的那份报告的作者，周四被免去贝勒大学(Baylor University)校长职务，此前的一项调查发现该校没有就针对橄榄球运动员的性侵指控进行妥善处理。”
The sweep of karma and the level of hypocrisy is just staggering.
这样的因果报应，这样的两面三刀，实在令人咋舌。
No wonder nearly two-thirds of Americans opposed Clinton’s impeachment, and he emerged from the impeachment with record-high approval ratings.
难怪将近三分之二的美国人反对弹劾克林顿，而他在弹劾程序过后又取得了创纪录的支持率。
Now, Trump wants to dip into this muck again, even though he has had his own extramarital affair.
如今特朗普也想趟这趟浑水，尽管他自己也不乏婚外偷情的事。
Indeed, nine days after Clinton admitted his affair with Lewinsky, Trump seemed to support him and find kinship, saying, “Paula Jones is a loser, but the fact is that she may be responsible for bringing down a president indirectly.” Trump also mused on the prospect of his own run for public office, saying, “Can you imagine how controversial that’d be? You think about him with the women. How about me with the women? Can you imagine…”
事实上在克林顿承认和莱温斯基有婚外情九天后，特朗普还表示了对他的支持，显得惺惺相惜，他说，“葆拉·琼斯是个可怜虫，但现实是她可能间接地扳倒一个总统。”特朗普还畅想自己去竞选个一官半职会是怎样的情形，说，“你能想象那会有多大争议吗？你会想他和女人的事。那我跟女人呢？你能想象吗……”
I can, actually.
事实上，我可以的。
Last week, when the Trump lawyer Michael Cohen was confronted on CNN with Trump’s defenses of Clinton during the sex scandals, Cohen responded that at the time Trump was simply trying to “protect a friend.” And yet, this is the same camp lambasting Hillary Clinton as an “enabler” for trying to protect a husband?
上周在CNN，特朗普的律师迈克尔·科恩(Michael Cohen)被问及特朗普为性丑闻中的克林顿辩护的事，科恩的回应是当时特朗普不过是想“保护一个朋友”。这就是那个大骂试图保护丈夫的希拉里·克林顿是个“加害者”的竞选团队吗？
It’s all incredibly distasteful, yes, but it also doesn’t jibe. And, aside from the unshakable feeling that there is something tragically off about using a husband’s philandering as a weapon against a betrayed wife, I also doubt the public will have much stomach for these stories, just as it didn’t in the 1990s.
对，这些事情都让人恶心，而且并不合乎情理。把一个丈夫的风流史当武器，去对付一个被辜负的妻子，始终让人觉得非常不对劲，但除此之外，我还怀疑公众有没有那个胃口把这些事再翻出来，因为上世纪90年代的时候就已经没有了。
Dirty laundry, done.
脏衣服清洗完毕。