When I was at Fortune magazine in the 1990s, one of my colleagues was a reporter named Richard Behar. He had a special lock on his door, and he wouldn’t even let the janitor in to empty his wastebasket. He used a secret phone, which he kept hidden in a desk drawer, so that calls made to sources couldn’t be traced back to him.
上世纪90年代，我在《财富》杂志(Fortune)工作时，有一个名叫理查德·贝哈尔(Richard Behar)的记者同事。他在门上装了一把特别的锁，不让清洁工倒他的废纸篓，而且还使用一部秘密电话，把它藏在办公桌的抽屉里。用这部电话的目的是与提供线索的人之间的通话不会追踪到他身上。
At first, I just thought he was paranoid. But I soon learned that he had come by his paranoia honestly. In May 1991, as a correspondent for Time magazine, Behar had written an exposé of Scientology, calling it a “hugely profitable global racket that survives by intimidating members and critics in a Mafia-like manner.”
起初，我只是觉得他太多疑，但很快就发现，他这么小心不是没有道理的。1991年5月，他在《时代》周刊(Time)当记者时，写了一篇揭露山达基教(Scientology)内幕的文章，称它是“一个利润丰厚的全球诈骗网络，其生存方式是以黑社会性质的手段恐吓成员和批评者”。
Before the article was published, Behar says, he was followed by private detectives, who also contacted acquaintances, asking whether he had financial problems. After its publication, that sort of harassment continued, he says — along with a major libel suit. Although the suit was eventually dismissed, it took years, and cost millions of dollars to defend. Behar’s deposition alone lasted 28 days.
贝哈尔说，在这篇文章发表前，就有私家侦探尾随他，还联系了他的不少熟人，问他是否有财务方面的问题。据他表示，该文发表后，这种骚扰就没有停止过，而且他还吃了一起重大诽谤官司。虽然诉讼最终被驳回，但辩护已经耗费了多年的时间和数百万美元的资金。仅是贝哈尔一人的宣誓作证就持续了28天。
What brings this to mind is Alex Gibney’s fine new HBO documentary about Scientology, “Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief,” which is based on the book “Going Clear” by Lawrence Wright. (Disclosure: I played a small role in Gibney’s 2005 documentary on Enron.) “Going Clear,” which was shown at Sundance in late January, is scheduled to air on HBO on March 29.
引起我这段回忆的是一部出色的关于山达基教的HBO新纪录片《大白于天下：山达基教与信仰之狱》(Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief)，由亚历克斯·吉布尼(Alex Gibney)根据劳伦斯·赖特(Lawrence Wright)的书《大白于天下》制作。（顺便说一句，在吉布尼2005年推出的纪录片《安然公司》[Enron]中，我扮演了一个小角色。）这部记录片于今年1月下旬在圣丹斯电影节上进行过展映，预定于3月29日在HBO播放。
It is virtually impossible to tell the story of Scientology without getting into the issue of intimidation. As the film notes, going on the offensive against its critics is part of Scientology’s doctrine, handed down by its founder, L. Ron Hubbard. “It is the antithesis of turn the other cheek,” says Marty Rathbun, a former high-ranking official who left the church in 2004 and has since been subjected to Scientology harassment, as the film documents. It also retells the story, first reported in The New York Times, of how, in 1993, Scientology won a 25-year fight against the Internal Revenue Service, which had refused to grant it nonprofit status. Scientologists filed several thousand lawsuits, against not just the I.R.S. but individual I.R.S. officials, and hired private detectives to look for dirt and conduct surveillance operations.
要讲述山达基教的故事，几乎一定就会涉及恐吓问题。正如这部纪录片所述，对批评者发起攻击，是山达基教创始人L·罗恩·赫伯特(L. Ron Hubbard)传下来的教义之一。“这恰好是‘左脸也转过来由他打’的对立面，”该教前高级成员马蒂·拉思本(Marty Rathbun)说。根据这部纪录片的描述，2004年脱离该教会之后，拉思本就一直受到他们的骚扰。片中还讲述了一个最初发表在《纽约时报》上的故事：美国国税局(Internal Revenue Service)曾长期拒绝把山达基教会归入非营利组织类别，但1993年，在双方较量了25年之后，教会终于获得了胜利。这期间，他们针对国税局及其官员提起了几千次诉讼，还聘请私家侦探来查找这些官员的污点，监视他们的行动。
But the film doesn’t really tackle the intimidation of journalists. One of the first journalists to take on Scientology, in the early 1970s, was a young freelance writer named Paulette Cooper. Scientology’s retaliation was astounding. It framed her for supposedly sending bomb threats to the church. The documents it forged were so convincing that she was indicted in 1973 and was fully exonerated only when the F.B.I., acting on a tip, raided Scientology offices and discovered the plot against her in 1977.
不过，这部纪录片并没有深入探讨记者们遭受的恐吓。在上世纪70年代初最早报道山达基教内幕的记者中，有一个年轻的自由撰稿人名叫波莱特·库珀(Paulette Cooper)。山达基教对她进行的报复令人发指。该教陷害她向教会发出炸弹威胁，并伪造了非常逼真的文件，导致她1973年遭到正式指控。直到1977年联邦调查局(FBI)得到一条线索，突击搜查了山达基教会的办公室，发现了针对她的阴谋，她才得以洗清罪名。
Over the course of the next three decades-plus, there were a handful — though only a handful — of tough-minded articles like Behar’s. “Everybody who wrote about Scientology knew they were taking a risk,” Wright told me. You’ve heard of the “chilling effect?” Scientology offered a prime example of how it works.
在接下来的30多年中，陆续出现过几篇态度鲜明的文章，比如贝哈尔的报道，尽管屈指可数。“所有写山达基教的人都知道自己是在冒险，”赖特告诉我。你听说过“寒蝉效应”吗？山达基教就是一个娴熟运用这种效应的好例子。
Then, in 2009, The Tampa Bay Times (then The St. Petersburg Times) published an important series about Scientology, based on interviews with high-ranking defectors, including Rathbun and Mike Rinder, who had been Scientology’s top spokesman. The series was the first to suggest that Scientology had a longstanding culture of abuse. Amazingly, the church did not sue.
到了2009年，《坦帕湾时报》(The Tampa Bay Times)（当时叫做《圣彼得斯堡时报》[The St. Petersburg Times]）根据对脱离山达基教的多名前高层的采访，发表了关于该教的重磅系列报道。受访者中包括拉思本和山达基教会曾经的首席发言人麦克·林德尔(Mike Rinder)。这是第一个指出山达基教长期存在虐待文化的报道。令人惊讶的是，教会这次没有提起诉讼。
Vanity Fair published a big piece about Scientology. (This was after the breakup of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes; Cruise, of course, is the most famous Scientologist of them all.) No lawsuit. Anderson Cooper did a series on CNN. The BBC weighed in. Ditto and ditto.
《名利场》(Vanity Fair)同样发表了一篇关于山达基教的长文。（这是在汤姆·克鲁斯[Tom Cruise]和凯蒂·霍尔姆斯[Katie Holmes]分手之后。克鲁斯自然是最有名的山达基教信徒）教会也没有提起诉讼。接下来，安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)在CNN的节目中做了一个系列报道。BBC和其他媒体也纷纷响应。
Sure enough, when I spoke to Wright and Gibney, they said that the pushback they had gotten was nothing they couldn’t handle. A Scientology website has posted a video attacking the two men, and the church has also taken out full-page newspaper ads denouncing “Going Clear.” “I didn’t expect quite this much venom,” Gibney told me, but, he added, “I regard it as good publicity.”
果然，当我与赖特和吉布尼交流时，他们表示，自己受到的冲击实属意料之中。山达基教的一家网站发布了攻击这两人的视频，教会还在报纸上用整版整版的广告来谴责《大白于天下》。“我没想到会招来这么大的恶意，”吉布尼告诉我。但他仍表示，“我认为这是很好的宣传。”
(In a lengthy statement, a Scientology spokesperson said that Gibney had “lied to us repeatedly,” that Marty Rathbun had “destroyed evidence and lied under oath,” that a judge had described Behar as “biased,” and that in defending itself against Gibney’s “propaganda and bigotry,” it was speaking “for those who are subjected to religious persecution and hatred.”)
（山达基教会的一名发言人在长篇声明中表示，吉布尼曾“反复欺骗我们”；马蒂·拉思本“销毁了证据，并在宣誓后说谎”；一名法官称贝哈尔“带有偏见”；它要为“那些遭受宗教迫害和仇恨的人”发声，避免教会被吉布尼的“鼓动和偏执”所伤。）