Although she has gone to extraordinary lengths to distract and deceive American voters, the truth is finally coming out: Hillary Clinton has an 11th toe.
尽管她费了很大的力气去转移美国投票者的注意力，还欺骗他们，但真相最终大白天下：希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)有11个脚趾头。
I don’t have the medical records. She refuses to release them. But just try to come up with some other explanation for why she’s so infrequently photographed in sandals or flip-flops; why she seldom appears barefoot in public; why, during debates, she keeps her legs, especially the lower halves, tucked carefully behind the lectern.
我手头没有医疗记录。她拒绝公布这些记录。但是她极少穿凉鞋或人字拖拍照；很少光脚出现在公共场合；在辩论中，她总是注意让双腿，特别是小腿藏在讲台后面，这一切又该怎么解释呢？
She’s covering something up, and it’s that freakish, disqualifying digit.
她在掩饰什么；就是那个怪异的、无用的脚趾。
Have you watched her walk? Look closely. She wobbles a bit, or maybe it’s more of a teeter, combined with a lurch, and the likeliest cause is podiatric asymmetry. I consulted foot specialists. At least they referred to themselves that way online, and when I assured them that an interview with me could be their springboard to Sean Hannity, they opened up.
你看过她走路吗？仔细看看吧，她有点摇晃，或者更像是踉跄，再加一点东倒西歪，最像是一种足部的不对称。我去咨询过足部专家。至少他们在网上是这么介绍自己的，当我向他们保证，接受我的采访有助于他们见到肖恩·汉尼蒂（Sean Hannity，立场保守的政论节目主持人——编注），他们就对我知无不言了。
“Does Hillary Clinton have a superfluous toe?” I asked one of them.
“希拉里·克林顿有一只多余的脚趾吗？”我问其中一个人。
“I can’t definitively rule that out,” he said.
“我无法百分之百排除这种可能，”他说。
“Hillary Clinton: Hobbled and hiding it?” I asked the other, who agreed that “until she permits a thorough examination of her feet — and I mean both of them — how can we be sure?”
“希拉里·克林顿：一瘸一拐，还想隐瞒这件事，对吧？”我问其他人，他们一致认为“除非她允许对她的脚——而且是两只脚——进行详细的检查，我们怎么能确定呢？”
I’m not holding my breath. Clinton doesn’t volunteer information; she waits for the subpoena. A letter from her longtime physician that she provided last year was all of two pages long, and that’s not nearly enough medical detail about a 68-year-old raring to take on one of the most grueling jobs on the planet, let alone a 68-year-old facing a swirl of questions — a swirl, mind you! — about her gait.
我没有失望，克林顿不会自愿透露信息；她在等待传票。她去年出示了一位长期医生给她的文件，共有两页，对于一个渴望担任地球上最繁重工作的68岁的人来说，这些医学细节资料还远远不够，更别说是一个走起路来，步态有一大圈问题（注意了，是一大圈问题）的68岁的人。
Admittedly, Donald Trump, 70, gave us considerably less, even though he’d be the oldest first-term president ever. In a paltry cluster of sentences, his supposed doctor pronounced his health “astonishingly excellent,” a diagnostic term heretofore absent from the medical literature, and that same sycophant — I mean doctor — demonstrated impressive retroactive omniscience, saying that he could “state unequivocally” that no American president had been in shape as splendiferous as Trump’s.
诚然，70岁的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)给我们透露的资料更少，尽管他有可能成为在第一任期时年纪最老的总统。在若干少得可怜的声明里，被认为是他的医生的人宣布，他的健康状况“好得惊人”，这个诊断用词在此前的医学术语里是从来没有出现过的，还是同一个马屁精——我是说这个医生——表现出令人印象深刻的全知全能，他说自己可以“毫不含糊地说”，没有哪个美国总统的健康状况能像特朗普这么出色。
This testimonial was less science than sonnet: gushing, besotted.
这种张口就来、颠三倒四的话不像科学，倒像是作诗。
I’m pretty sure it was written in iambic pentameter. Phrases were plagiarized from Michelle Obama’s 2008 physical.
我相当肯定他的话是用抑扬格五音部写的。是从米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)2008年的体检报告里抄来的。
But you merely need to watch Trump lope from his comfy chauffeured car to his plush private jet to know that everything below his waist is working magnificently, including his toes, of which there are an even number. They’re amazing toes. You won’t believe these toes. Vladimir Putin once offered several Russian oil fields in exchange for them. Paul Manafort drew up the contract, including his 40 percent commission for the swap.
但是你只需要看看特朗普迈着大步从豪华轿车或是豪华私人飞机上走下来的姿态就知道，他的腰部以下一切运行良好，包括他的脚趾，正好有十个。它们真是很不错的脚趾。好到让人不敢相信。弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)曾经愿意用几个俄罗斯油田来交换这样的脚趾。保罗·马纳福特(Paul Manafort)签下合同，愿意用他40%的佣金来交换这样的脚趾。
But back to Clinton. In her physician’s report, did you see anything about her feet? No. Rudy Giuliani pointed this out. He was on Fox News, raving about what an obvious invalid she is and leaving out the part about his decision not to run against her for a Senate seat in 2000 because he was battling prostate cancer while she was sturdy as an ox. An ox with an extra toe, that is, although her critics didn’t catch it at the time.
但是回到克林顿的问题。在她的体检报告里，你看到过任何关于她的脚的消息吗？没有。鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)指出了这一点。当时他在Fox新闻大肆宣称克林顿身体虚弱，却没有提到2000年他因为前列腺癌，而决定放弃和克林顿竞争参议院席位的决定，当时她可是健壮得像头牛。而且是多出一只脚趾的牛，尽管她的批评者们当时还没注意到这一点。
Maybe they weren’t Googling aggressively enough. We’re only now realizing the full potential of the internet, which connects visionary dissidents once dismissed as isolated crackpots and gives them a big, ready billboard for their hallucinations — oops, revelations. They can tweet the unvarnished, unshod truth, and who needs cumbersome Freedom of Information Act requests or tedious investigative journalism when you have hashtags? #ShowTheToe.
或许他们用谷歌搜索得还不够积极。我们现在才明白互联网的潜力有多大，许多富于远见卓识的异见者们曾经一度被视为孤立而不切实际的人，如今却可以通过互联网瞬间联系在一起。互联网还给了他们一个巨大的、现成的公告牌，用来展示他们的幻想——哦不对，是对真相的揭示。他们可以在Twitter上发表未经修饰的、赤裸裸的真相，有了“#ShowTheToe”（秀出脚趾）这个标签，谁还需要麻烦的信息自由法案，或者繁琐的调查新闻呢？
The lamestream media pussyfoots around all of this, protecting Clinton by persecuting Trump for his unshared tax returns. It’s a classic diversionary tactic. But while a man’s bank account is personal, a woman’s body is public. It’s in the Constitution, maybe one of the amendments, or should be.
那些蹩脚的主流媒体因为这一切而迟疑不决，指责特朗普没有公开退税信息，从而保护了克林顿。这是一种典型的转移注意力的做法。但是一个男人的银行账户是私事，一个女人的身体可是公共事件。宪法上就是这么写的，也许在某一条修正案里，就算没有也应该写进修正案里。
Besides, there are ramifications to whatever’s going on inside Clinton’s clogs. An extra toe means an extra toenail, and can a country in straits as dire as ours suffer a commander in chief whose pedicure takes minutes longer than the average American’s?
另外，克林顿的鞋子里发生了什么，这可是有严重后果的。一个多出来的脚趾就意味着一片多出来的脚趾甲，一个像我们这样岌岌可危的国家，是否能够承受领导人要比美国人平均多花好几分钟的时间来修脚呢？
If it’s on her left foot, which is what some carefully edited video suggests, it means she’s pulled constantly to the left. We can’t have that.
如果如某些精心剪辑的视频所示，这个多出来的脚趾是在她的左脚上，这意味着她经常左倾。我们可受不了这个。
Not everyone in the Clinton Conspiracy Industry agrees that this is a matter to be pressed as forcefully as others. They say it jumbles together issues of vastly discrepant seriousness: her emails, the Clinton Foundation, Benghazi, Birkenstocks. They say it turns each assertion of scandal into more white noise.
并不是克林顿阴谋产业的每个人都同意这件事与其他事情一样有说服力。他们说，这件事令各种具有不同重要意义的事实乱作一团：她的邮件、克林顿基金会、班加西、勃肯鞋。他们说，这把所有关于丑闻的断言都变成了白噪音。
But that’s flawed thinking — and a defeatist attitude to boot. When you’re hunting game as slippery as Clinton, you use every weapon you have, never knowing which will trip her up and take her down. Mark my words. This toe could be her Achilles’ heel.
但是这是一种有缺陷的想法——此外也是一种失败主义的态度。要对付克林顿这么棘手的猎物，你就得用上自己的所有武器，不知道哪一种能抓住她，把她打倒。记住我的话。这个脚趾头可能会成为她的阿喀琉斯之踵呢。