Introduction: The World's Fastest-Growing Religion
简介：全球发展最快的宗教
The limestone and granite Church of Scientology in midtown Manhattan is located just northwest of Times Square, at 227 West 46th Street. Blending in seamlessly amid Broadway theaters, restaurants, and hotels, the place is very easy to miss, though it is seven stories tall and marked with a large metal awning proclaiming scientology in gold letters. At various times during the year, clusters of attractive young men and women are posted on nearby street corners, where they offer free "stress tests" or hand out fliers. Ranging in age from the late teens to the early twenties, they are dressed as conservatively as young bank executives.
这座由石灰岩和花岗岩建成的山达基教（Scientology）教会，位于曼哈顿中城时报广场西北面的西46大街227号。它与周围的百老汇剧院、餐馆和酒店不着痕迹地混在一起。尽管楼高七层，而且搭了个巨大的金属遮阳篷，上面用金字标明了山达基教的名称，但一不小心就会错过。每年在几个不同的时期，会有一群年轻貌美的男女扎堆站在邻近的街角，为行人提供免费“压力测试”，或者分发传单。他们的年纪在20岁上下，穿着跟年轻的银行高管一样保守。
On a hot July morning several years ago, I was approached by one of these clear-eyed young men. "Hi!" he said, with a smile. "Do you have a minute?" He introduced himself as Emmett. "We're showing a film down the street," he said, casually pulling a glossy, postcard-sized flier from the stack he held in his hand. "It's about Dianetics — ever heard of it?"
几年前的七月，一个炎热的早上，他们中一个眼神清澈的年轻人走到我跟前。“嗨！”他面带微笑地说。“能耽误你一分钟吗？”他自称名叫埃米特：“在街那头，我们正在播映一部电影，”他说着，从握着的一叠光面、明信片大小的传单中随手抽出一张递给我。“片子说的是戴尼提(Dianetics)——你听说过吗？”
I looked at the handout, which featured a large, exploding volcano, instantly familiar from the Dianetics commercials that played on local television stations when I was a teenager. The flier, which invited me to come and see the free introductory film ("Showing Now! Bring Your Friends!"), proclaimed that Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health was "the most popular book on the mind ever written" and a bestseller for over fifty years, with "over 25 million copies in circulation in 50 languages on Earth."
我看了看传单，上面印着一个正在喷发的大火山，立刻就回想起了十几岁时，在地方台上播映的关于戴尼提的广告片。传单邀请我去免费观看一部介绍影片（“现正上映！带上你的朋友一起来！”），上面这样赞美戴尼提：关于它的图书《现代心灵健康科学》(The Modern Science of Mental Health)是“史上关于心智的最流行读物”，畅销逾50年，“在全球译成50种语言，发行量超过2500万册。”
"Okay," I said.
“好呀，”我说。
"Great!" A huge grin spread across Emmett's face. He escorted me across the street.
“太棒了！”埃米特开心地笑起来，送我过了马路。
Inside the church, two young women in long skirts stood by the reception desk. Like Emmett, they seemed to be about twenty, had blond hair, and looked freshly scrubbed, reminding me of Mormon missionaries. They led me down a set of marble steps, and we entered the main lobby, a large glossy space with lighting that bathed everything in a pinkish-golden glow. Aside from my guides and me, it was completely empty.
走进教会，两个穿长裙的年轻女孩站在前台。跟埃米特一样，她俩估摸也就20来岁，一头金发，看起来真是精神焕发，让我想到了摩门教传教士。她们领我上了几级大理石台阶，进了大厅，那里非常宽敞亮堂，灯光将一切都镀上了闪亮的玫瑰金色。里面空空荡荡，就只有我和我的两位向导。
The room appeared to be set up as a Scientology museum. Books by Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard — more than fifty of them — lined the walls, as did black-and-white photos of the man, all presenting him as a robust patriarch with graying sideburns and a benevolent smile, dressed in a sports jacket and ascot.
这间屋子看起来是用做山达基教的博物馆。几面墙上排列着山达基教创始人L.罗恩·赫伯特(L. Ron Hubbard)出的书，总共有50多种，还有他的各种黑白照，照片里他穿着休闲西装，打着宽领带，两鬓斑白，笑容亲切，俨然是一位精力充沛的长老。
But far more prominent than Hubbard was Tom Cruise. Projected on a large video panel, his image dominated the space: earnest, handsome, dressed in a black turtleneck, looking directly into a camera and apparently giving a testimonial to the faith. What Cruise was actually saying, however, I couldn't tell. His words were almost completely drowned out by the sound of myriad other videos playing simultaneously nearby. The Church of Scientology, unlike other houses of worship, did not invite somber reflection on its beliefs but rather offered a technological wonderland: music videos promoting the group's Youth for Human Rights campaign played alongside infomercials extolling the wonders of Dianetics, which appeared alongside videos and documentary-style reports on the great work of Scientology's "volunteer ministers" at Ground Zero, which played next to a video of Tom Cruise receiving an award for outstanding service.
不过比起赫伯特，汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)要更加出挑。在一块大视频面板播映着他的画面，成为这里的主导形象：他穿件黑色高领毛衣，直视摄像机，看起来真诚又潇洒，似乎正在为信仰作证。不过，我没听出来克鲁斯究竟在说些什么，周围同时还在播放着无数视频，他的声音几乎被淹没了。山达基教教会跟其他教堂不同，它没有召唤人们对信念进行冷静的思考，而是提供一种科技上的幻境：推广该教“年轻人为人权”运动的音乐录影带，旁边播放的赞颂戴尼提奇迹的广告，再旁边放的是纪录片风格的报道，说的是山达基教“志愿牧师”在世贸中心遗址所做出的出色贡献，再旁边则是汤姆·克鲁斯因其卓越服务而获奖的录像。
I was escorted into a small screening room to watch the free introductory film. This turned out to be a high-quality, rather long infomercial featuring a cast of ostensibly real people who explained how Dianetics had changed their lives and improved their health dramatically, curing them of ailments ranging from brain cancer to depression. It was fifteen minutes of fantastic and totally outlandish claims, and yet each testimonial was presented in such a reasonable way that in spite of myself, I felt kind of hopeful.
她们领着我去了一间小放映室观看这部免费的介绍影片。结果，我发现这是一部质量很高的广告长片，里面出现了一群貌似真实人物的角色，讲述着戴尼提如何显著地改变了他们的生活，提高了他们的体质，治愈了从脑癌到抑郁症的各种疾病。在这部15分钟的片子里，充斥着不可思议、千奇百怪的说法，但每一条证词都是以一种非常合情合理的方式呈现出来，让我不由自主，心中竟然涌现出期望。
After the film, a woman came into the screening room and told me that she'd like me to fill out a questionnaire. Laurie, as she introduced herself, was a matronly woman of about fifty. She began her pitch gently. "Tell me about yourself," she said. "What made you interested in Scientology?"
电影放完，一个女人走了进来，跟我说她希望我能填写一张问卷。她自我介绍说叫劳瑞，举止稳重，看起来有50多岁。她说起这套宣传词时态度很温和：“跟我说说你自己吧，是什么让你对山达基教感兴趣的？”
Over the next hour or so, Laurie asked me a series of questions: Was I married? Was I happy? What were my goals? Did I feel like I was living up to my potential? She exuded warmth and was resolutely nonaggressive. And to my amazement, I began to open up to her, telling her about my relationship with my boyfriend and my desire to quit smoking.
在接下来的那一个多钟头，劳瑞问了我一连串问题：你结婚了吗？你幸福吗？你的目标是什么？你觉得自己发挥了所有潜力吗？她让人感觉很温暖，一点都不咄咄逼人。令我始料不及的是，我竟然向她敞开心扉，跟她说起了跟男友之间的感情，以及想要戒烟的愿望。
In response, Laurie delivered a soft sell for Scientology's "introductory package": a four-hour seminar and twelve hours of Dianetics auditing, a form of counseling that cost $50. "You don't have to do it," Laurie said. "It's just something I get the feeling might help you." She patted my arm.
劳瑞对此的回应，是开始软性推销山达基派的“入门套餐”：四小时的讨论会，加12小时戴尼提听析——一种咨询形式——售价为50美元。“你不是一定非要参加这个，”劳瑞说：“我只是感觉它会对你有帮助。”说着，她轻轻拍了拍我的胳膊。
Laurie also had me take the two-hundred-question Oxford Capacity Analysis, Scientology's well-known personality test, which poses such questions as "Do you often sing or whistle just for the fun of it?" and "Do you sometimes feel that your age is against you (too young or too old)?" After looking at my test, Laurie told me that I had "blocks" in communication but was basically confident, though I did seem to suffer from nonspecific anxiety. "These are all things we can help you with," she said, and smiled. "It's really such a good thing you came in," she added, as she took my credit card. "You'll see."
劳瑞还让我做了包含200个问题的牛津能力分析(Oxford Capacity Analysis)，这是山达基派著名的个性测试，里面的问题包括“你是否会常常纯粹出于高兴而唱歌或吹口哨？”和“你是否有时感觉年纪错位（感觉太年轻或太老）？”看完我的答卷后，劳瑞告诉我，我在沟通方面存在“障碍”，但基本上是自信的，不过似乎受到某些不确切的焦虑困扰。“这些事情，我们都能帮到你，”她笑着说：“你能主动进来真是太好了。”接过我的信用卡，她补充了一句：“你会看到效果的。”
On Monday, I returned to the church to begin my $50 package. My partner in auditing was named David. Sitting down across from me, he asked me to "relive" a moment of physical pain. "Don't choose something that's too stressful," he suggested.
到了星期一，我再次来到教会，开始了这个50美元的课程。听析环节的伙伴名叫大卫，他坐在我对面，让我花些时间来“释放”身体的痛楚。“别选择想那些让你感觉太有压力的东西。”他建议说。
I closed my eyes and concentrated, but try as I might, I could not relive much of anything. After fifteen minutes, I gave up.
我闭目凝视，但无论怎么努力，都没法释放出任何东西。过了15分钟，我放弃了。
Waiting just outside the room was Jane, a Scientology registrar who told me she was now handling my "case." A redhead dressed in jeans and a lightweight blouse, she asked me how it went. "I'm not sure this is for me," I told her.
在屋外，简在等候我，这位山达基教的辅导员告诉我，从现在开始，由她负责我的“案例”。简一头红发，穿牛仔裤和质地轻薄的上衣，她问我进展怎样。“我怀疑自己不太适合这种事情。”我说。
"A lot of people feel that way when they first start auditing; it's not unusual," Jane said soothingly, all the while steering me away from the exit. She walked me down a long hall and into her office, where, on her desk, lay the results of my personality test. Jane studied them a bit. "What you need is something more personal," she said. She suggested Life Repair, a $2,000 package of one-on-one private auditing sessions, which she said would help me handle my everyday problems. Then, after I finished Life Repair, which could take a month or so, I could get right to The Bridge to Total Freedom, which, Jane explained, was how people really made gains, or had "wins," as she called them.
“很多人在第一次参加听析时都会有这种感觉；你不是特例。”简一边安慰我，一边着带我走了出去。她领着我穿过一条长长的走廊，进了她的办公室，桌上摆着我的性格测试结果。简看了一会儿。“你需要更加私人的东西。”她说。她提议我参加“生命修复”(Life Repair)，这是一个2000美元的套餐，提供一对一的私人听析课程，她说这个课程能帮我解决日常问题。课程大约需要一个月时间，完成了“生命修复”，我就能直接通往“自由之桥”(The Bridge to Total Freedom)，简解释说，只有走到这里，人们才能真正有所收获，或者用她的话来说，是取得了“胜利”。
"How much do you think people spend on psychotherapy?" Jane asked me. I replied that it varied: in New York, $150–$250 could be standard for a forty-five-minute session. Auditing, she said, was much cheaper. Auditing sessions were sold in 12.5-hour blocks, known as intensives; one intensive, she said, cost $750 — half the price of therapy, hour for hour. "It's worth it, I promise you," she said.
“你觉得现在人们在心理治疗上要花多少钱？”简问我。我回答说价格不等，在纽约，45分钟的心理咨询标准价位是150到250美元。她说，听析的价格便宜多了，听析课程以12个半小时为一个单元来出售，称之为强化治疗；一次强化治疗价格为750美元——以时间来计算，是心理咨询的一半价钱。“这笔钱是值得花的，我跟你担保。”她说。
"I'll think about it," I told her.
“我要考虑一下，”我告诉她。
Jane seemed disappointed. "We should get you going as soon as possible," she said. "I really want you to have a win."
简的表情有点失望。“我们应当尽快让你接受这个辅导，”她说：“我真的希望能获得‘胜利’。”
Scientology — the term means "the study of truth" — calls itself the "fastest-growing religion in the world." Born in 1954, the group now claims millions of members in 165 different countries and eighty-five hundred Scientology churches, missions, and outreach groups across the globe. Its holdings, which include real estate on several continents, are widely assumed to be worth billions of dollars. Its missionaries, known as "volunteer ministers," tour the developing world and are sent, en masse, to deliver aid in familiar disaster zones such as earthquake-ravaged Port-au-Prince or New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. Wherever large groups of people are circulating — in city centers, on street corners, in subway stations, at shopping malls, and on college campuses — you can find Scientologists offering free "stress tests" and distributing leaflets. Like members of another homegrown American faith, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Scientologists live in virtually every major city in America and in numerous smaller cities and suburbs as well; they can be found in every age group and vocation. Each year, according to the church's estimates, fifty to sixty thousand people sign up for a Scientology course or buy a book about the faith for the first time.
人们并不是“相信”山达基教，而是为它买单
山达基教——这个术语意为“对真理的研究”——自称是“全球发展最快的宗教”。该教成立于1954年，目前声称在165个不同国家拥有数百万信众，并在全球拥有8500座教会、布道所和传教团。山达基教在几大洲都拥有房地产，外界普遍估计其资产总价达数十亿美元。该教传教士称为“志愿牧师”，他们在发展中国家四处行走，前往一些众所周知的受灾地点，比如震后的太子港或卡特里娜飓风肆虐后的新奥尔良。但凡是人口密集的地方——比如市中心、街角、地铁站、购物广场以及大学校园，你都能看到山达基派的人在提供免费“压力测试”，分发传单。跟另一个在美国本土成立的宗教——耶稣基督后期圣徒教会(the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints)一样，山达基教遍布美国的每座大城市以及众多较小城市与市郊；信众遍及各个年龄段和职业。据山达基教会预计，每年有5~6万人初次报名参加该教课程或购买关于这种信仰的图书。
Take a look at these statistics, and you might easily assume that Scientology is one of the most successful new religious movements in America. Certainly it is among the most recognizable, thanks to its most famous, not to mention outspoken, member, Tom Cruise. The creation of the late science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard, Scientology is considered by some academics within the field of comparative religion to be one of the most significant faiths born in the past century. But type the word Scientology into Google, and it becomes immediately clear that it is also America's most controversial religion. It has been referred to as a "cult," a "dangerous cult," and an "evil cult." There are websites declaring that "Scientology kills" and "Scientology lies." Others are dedicated to exposing Scientology's "secret documents," its "secret teachings," and "what Scientology won't tell you." On message boards, former members post stories about their "escape" from the Church of Scientology, their "recovery" from the Church of Scientology, and their "life after" Scientology. It is a church that, over the past fifty years, has been the subject of more than half a dozen wide-scale government investigations around the world, and thousands of lawsuits, many of which center on its controversial doctrine and practices. Scientology, as its critics point out, is unlike any other Western religion in that it withholds key aspects of its central theology from all but its most exalted followers. This would be akin to the Catholic Church telling only a select number of the faithful that Jesus Christ died for their sins.
看到这些数字，你很可能会猜测山达基教是美国最成功的新兴宗教之一。它当然要算是其中辨识度最高的宗教，这得归功于最著名、不消提也是最敢言的一位信徒汤姆·克鲁斯。山达基教由已故科幻小说作家L.罗恩·赫伯特创建，在一些比较宗教学领域的学者看来，这是上世纪诞生的最重要的信仰之一。但在谷歌(Google)搜索框里键入“Scientology”一词，你会立刻清楚地发现，这也是美国最具争议的宗教。人们将它称作“膜拜团体”、“危险的膜拜团体”或“邪教”。有些网站宣布“山达基教杀人”和“山达基教说谎”。还有网站专门曝光山达基教的“秘密档案”，“秘密教义”以及“山达基教不会告诉你的事情”。在留言板上，一些前教徒发布了自己的故事，讲述他们如何“逃离”山达基教，在退出山达基教后“康复”，以及离开山达基教会之后的人生。在过去15年来，这个教派在全球各地，受到了超过六次大规模政府调查和数千起诉讼，其中多数的焦点集中在它有争议的教义和活动上。批评人士指出，山达基教与其他任何一种西方宗教的区别在于，除了地位最高的教徒，其他人是无从知晓教义核心理念的。这就相当于天主教会只跟经过遴选的少数信众说，耶稣基督是因他们的罪恶而死。
Whether or not Scientology is a religion is a matter of enduring debate. In Germany, where the church has been described as a "totalitarian" organization, Scientology has been roundly condemned as a cult, and its members have been barred from holding public office or even joining some political parties. In Great Britain, Scientology is also viewed as something other than a religion, but it is nonetheless protected by a statute that criminalizes hate speech and threatening actions directed against religious groups (in May 2008, for example, a fifteen-year-old boy was arrested in London for holding a picket sign denouncing Scientology). Australia banned the practice of Scientology in the 1960s but reversed this decision and recognized it as a religion in 1983; yet one outspoken member of the Australian government, Senator Nick Xenophon, has denounced Scientology as a "criminal organization." The French Church of Scientology has been under investigation for more than a decade. In October 2009, a French court found Scientology guilty of fraud and imposed a fine of nearly a million dollars. But the judge stopped short of banning Scientology from France, as the prosecution had requested. Scientology celebrated this decision as a victory. "I don't think that's going to have any lasting impact," the former inspector general of the Church of Scientology, Marty Rathbun, told a Canadian radio interviewer, in response to the verdict. The fine, he explained, was "like chump change" to the church.
山达基教究竟是不是宗教，始终众说纷纭。在德国，该教被形容为一个“极权主义的”组织，直接被定为邪教，信徒不可从事公职，甚至不能加入某些政党。在英国，山达基教同样没有宗教地位，尽管如此，由于有关法律认定所有针对宗教团体的仇恨言论和威胁举动均不合法（比方说在2008年5月，一个15岁的少年就因举了一个谴责山达基教的标语而在伦敦被捕），它还是受到了英国法律的保护。澳大利亚在20世纪60年代禁止山达基教的宗教活动，但在1983年推翻了该项决定，并认可了它的合法宗教地位；但澳大利亚政府一位坦率的成员——参议员尼克·谢诺峰(Nick Xenophon)公开指责山达基教是“犯罪组织”。法国的山达基教会已经遭到了10多年的调查。在2009年10月，法国的一个法院裁决山达基教欺诈罪名成立，处以近100万美元罚款；但法官未能如检方所愿，取缔该教在法国的合法地位。山达基教庆祝这项判决的胜利。“我认为它不会产生任何持久的影响，”山达基教前监察长(inspector general)马蒂·拉思本(Marty Rathbun)在得知判决结果时对加拿大一家电台的记者这样表示。他解释说，这笔罚款对于教会“只是九牛一毛”。
The United States, where Scientology was born and where a majority of Scientologists live, has legitimized Scientology as a religion and granted it all of the legal protections that such a status confers, including tax exemption. But within the church itself, Scientology is usually defined as an "applied religious philosophy" — a "spiritual science" offering practical solutions to the problems of everyday life. Within every individual, it asserts, is a happier, purer, better self — a "perfect" self — waiting to be realized. Scientology claims that this idealized self can be realized today, in real time, and what's more, that this self can be godlike, immortal, and marked by supernatural powers. The traditional religious bedrock — worship, God, love and compassion, even the very concept of faith — is wholly absent from its precepts. And, unique among modern religions, Scientology charges members for every service, book, and course offered, promising greater and greater spiritual enlightenment with every dollar spent. People don't "believe" in Scientology; they buy into it.
美国，是山达基教诞生、也是大多数教徒居住的地方。它在美国被认定为合法宗教，并且享受所有相应的法律保护，包括税收豁免。不过在山达基教内部，它往往会被定义为一种“实用宗教哲学”——一种可以为日常生活中的问题提供实用解决方法的“灵性科学”。它主张，在每个个体中，都有一个更幸福、更纯粹、更美好的自我——也就是一个“完美的”自我——在等待着得到实现。山达基教认为这种理想化的自我可以在今天、在当下实现，而且这种自我可以如神一般不朽，并能拥有显著的超自然力量。传统的宗教基石，包括崇拜、上帝、爱与慈悲，甚至连信念本身，在山达基教的信条中都不存在。在各种现代宗教中，山达基教的特殊之处还在于，它提供的每次服务、介绍的每一本书籍、传授的每一个课程都要向信徒收费，并且承诺信徒每多花一块钱，都能获得更崇高的精神启迪。人们并不是“相信”山达基教，而是买了它的账。
This is a story about a global spiritual enterprise that trades in a product called "spiritual freedom." It is, on many levels, a story about the buying and selling of self-betterment: an elusive but essentially American concept that has never been more in demand than it is today. As far back as the mid-nineteenth century, when a New England hypnotist named Phineas Quimby popularized a form of healing he called "mind cure," Americans have yearned for a quick fix for their physical, psychological, and spiritual imperfections. The Church of Scientology is a shape-shifting and powerful organization that promises that fix.
实际上，这是一个兜售一种叫“精神自由”的商品的跨国公司。在很多层面上，它讲的是购买和销售自我完善：这是一个难以捉摸，但从本质上说非常美国的理念，在现如今比以往任何时候都更受欢迎。早在19世纪中叶，一位叫菲尼亚斯·昆比(Phineas Quimby)的新英格兰催眠师就在推广一种治愈术，他称之为“精神治疗”，一直以来，美国人都渴望快速治愈自己生理、精神与灵性方面的缺陷。而山达基教就是这样一家经过变形的、承诺可以治愈信众的强大机构。
The Scientologists you will read about in these pages are members, or former members, of a wealthy and mysterious organization whose goal, like that of most religions, is to improve human society. The church also aspires to greatly increase its global footprint and, finally, to make money, though members will never say this specifically. Rather, if you were to ask, they would tell you that they want to "clear the planet" — to remove, in a literal sense, the stain of war, insanity, and disease from the world — which, like all worthwhile endeavors, comes at a cost.
这个机构富有而神秘，其目标与大部分宗教一样，是改善人类社会。山达基教会还渴望扩大其在全球的足迹，然后最终达到赚钱的目的，不过其信众从来不会特别指明这一点。相反，如果你去问他们的话，他们会跟你，说想要“清洁地球”——按字面意思来解释，是将战争、疯狂与疾病的阴霾从这个世界清除出去，这跟做一切善举一样，是需要付出代价的。
The church claims that more than half of its members were introduced to Scientology through family or friends. Indeed, at this point in its development, many current members are second- or even third-generation Scientologists. For example, the actress Priscilla Presley, who joined Scientology in the 1970s, raised her daughter, Lisa Marie, in the church; the British writer and graphic novelist Neil Gaiman, who currently maintains that he is not a practicing Scientologist, was nonetheless brought up in Scientology, at the church's worldwide headquarters. Other famous second-generation Scientologists include the actors Juliette Lewis, Elizabeth Moss, Giovanni Ribisi, and Danny Masterson, who introduced the faith to his girlfriend, the model Bijou Phillips, and to his former costar on That Seventies Show, Lauren Prepon. Sky Dayton, the founder of Earthlink, one of the first Internet service providers, also grew up in Scientology, as did the church's current spokesman, Tommy Davis, the son of the actress and longtime Scientologist Anne Archer.
山达基教声称，超过半数信徒是通过亲友接触到了该教。发展至今，现在该教很多教友其实都是信徒的第二代甚至第三代。比方说，在20世纪70年代加入该教的演员普瑞希拉·普雷斯利(Priscilla Presley)是在加入山达基教后，在教堂将女儿丽莎·玛丽(Lisa Marie)抚养长大；英国作家兼漫画小说家尼尔·盖曼虽声称自己并不是山达基教徒，但他是在该教的国际总部耳濡目染长大的。著名的第二代信徒还包括演员朱丽叶·刘易斯(Juliette Lewis)、伊丽莎白·摩斯(Elizabeth Moss)、吉奥瓦尼·瑞比西(Giovanni Ribisi)和丹尼·马斯特森(Danny Masterson)，后者又把自己的信仰介绍给了模特女友碧悠·菲利浦(Bijou Phillips)和一起出演《七十年代的故事》(That Seventies Show)的演员劳拉·普瑞朋(Lauren Prepon)。思凯·代顿(Sky Dayton)是最早的互联网服务供应商之一Earthlink的创始人，他同样是在山达基派的环境中长大的。而教会现任发言人汤米·戴维斯(Tommy Davis)是演员，也是长期信徒安妮·阿彻(Anne Archer)之子。
But the vast majority of Scientologists are people you have never heard of. Many work in various parts of the entertainment industry, but still more of them write, teach, create art, build houses, trade stock, manage hedge funds, own businesses, and invent new forms of technology. They run schools and drug rehabilitation programs, work in prisons and inner cities, and lobby Congress and federal regulators. Roughly a quarter of them, according to church figures, were raised Catholic, another quarter Protestant; the rest come from Jewish, Mormon, Hindu, and even Muslim backgrounds. As for education, some Scientologists hold professional or advanced degrees; others are high school graduates; some never finished school.
当然山达基教的绝大多数信众，我们都闻所未闻。其中不少人在娱乐业的各个领域工作，但还有更多人从事的是写作、教书、艺术创作、房屋建筑、股票交易、对冲基金管理、企业经营、新技术发明等各类工作。他们在管理学校和戒毒项目，他们在监狱和市中心工作，他们在游说议会和联邦监管者。据教会的数据，大致有四分之一的信众在天主教家庭长大，另外四分之一出自新教徒家庭，其余人则来自犹太、摩门教、印度教甚至穆斯林背景。而在教育背景方面，一些山达基教徒拥有专业或高等学位，另一些人高中毕业，还有些则未能完成学业。