He was the Tammany Hall boss of North Korea, the man who dispensed favors and stayed close to the ruling Kim family, so close he married the daughter of the nation’s founder. He got rich by selling commodities to China: low-end coal and probably the more valuable rare earths. He ran the Ministry of People’s Security. Those gilded connections did not shield one of North Korea’s most powerful men from the wrath of the young new leader, the 30-something Kim Jong-un, and for reasons that no one outside the inner sanctums of Pyongyang knows, Jang Song-thaek suffered a bloody downfall.
他相当于朝鲜的坦慕尼协会(Tammany Hall)首脑，掌管着利益分配，与金家的统治者保持密切联系，甚至娶了建国者的女儿。他通过向中国销售廉价的煤和可能更加值钱的稀土资源，获得了大量财富。他领导着朝鲜人民保安部(Ministry of People’s Security)。他是朝鲜最有权势的人之一，但是当30多岁的朝鲜年轻领导人发威时，这些非比寻常的关系也没能让他幸免于难。因为一些平壤核心领导层之外的人无从知晓的原因，张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)遭遇了一场血腥的垮台。
On Dec. 12, 2013, two years after Kim took office, Jang, 67, was probably executed by firing squad, his death described in the official media as befitting “human scum,” a man who was “worse than a dog.” There were rumors that he was actually thrown to a pack of attack dogs; these were later discounted. His wife, Kim Kyong-hui — an aunt of Kim who may have given a green light for her husband’s death — survived initially, but reports said she was later poisoned.
金正恩上台两年后的2013年12月12日，67岁的张成泽被处死，很有可能是被行刑队枪决。他的死被朝鲜官方媒体描述为“人间渣滓”应得的处罚，形容他“还不如条狗”。有传言称他实际上是和一群攻击犬关在一起，被它们袭击致死；这一说法后来被认为不属实。张成泽的妻子、金正恩的姑姑张敬姬，此前有可能默许了金正恩对丈夫处以死刑。起初她保住了自己的性命，但有报道说她后来也被毒死。
The purge of Jang, spectacular even by North Korea’s standards, marked the true beginning of Kim’s regime. But in a tweak of the conventional idea that North Korea is a monolith, the authors of “North Korea Confidential,” Daniel Tudor and James Pearson, both of whom have lived in South Korea, note that personal rivalries have long divided the North Korean elite, and that a shadowy body, the Organization and Guidance Department, may possess even more power than Kim. The exit of Jang, who was North Korea’s most important conduit to its main benefactor, China, and who had built a patronage system of thousands of followers, was a sign, the authors say, of the deadly competition at the top of North Korea.
朝鲜官方对张成泽的清洗行动，即使就朝鲜的标准而言，也颇为引人注目，它标志着金正恩开始真正地执掌政权。人们通常认为朝鲜的统治是铁板一块，但《朝鲜机密》(North Korea Confidential)的作者丹尼尔·图德(Daniel Tudor)和詹姆斯·皮尔逊(James Pearson)有略微不同的看法，二人都曾经在韩国生活，他们注意到私人恩怨长期导致朝鲜精英阶层的分裂，而一个神秘莫测的机构——组织指导部(Organization and Guidance Department)所拥有的权力可能比金正恩还要大。张成泽是连接朝鲜与其最大赞助国中国的最重要渠道，他还建立了一个有数千追随者的亲信网络。两位作者表示，张成泽被处决是朝鲜高层激烈夺权行动的一种体现。
The bankrupt nation that brandishes its nuclear weapons in the face of the United States is so opaque, and so cut off from the rest of the world, that reliable reporting about it is rare. Hollywood spoofs like “The Interview” don’t get us very far. Vignettes from occasional high-profile trips like that by Sophie Schmidt, who accompanied her father, Eric Schmidt, the chairman of Google, in early 2013 and then blogged about it, provide only fleeting insights into Pyongyang’s petri-dish atmosphere. The access afforded the photographer David Guttenfelder, who has made many visits to North Korea and recently spent six days there for The New York Times chronicling what he could observe of everyday life, revealed glimpses down to toothpicks made of hedgehog quills.
这个在美国面前以核武器相胁的破产国家面目模糊，与世隔绝，人们很少见到有关朝鲜的可靠报道。《刺杀金正恩》(The Interview)之类的好莱坞恶搞也提供不了多少有效信息。2013年初陪同身为谷歌(Google)董事会主席的父亲埃里克·施密特(Eric Schmidt)一同访问朝鲜之后，索菲·施密特(Sophie Schmidt)在博客上写了一些自己见闻。这类偶然出现的高调朝鲜之行所提供的花絮纪录，也只能让人短暂一瞥朝鲜的真空环境。之前曾多次进入朝鲜的摄影师大卫·古登菲尔德(David Guttenfelder)，最近再次获得了这样的机会。受时报之邀，他在朝鲜游历了六天，纪录他所观察到的朝鲜日常生活，甚至涉及到诸如用刺猬刺制作的牙签这样的微小细节。
“North Korea Confidential” gives us a deeply informed close-up. Tudor, a former correspondent for The Economist, and Pearson, a Reuters reporter, have pieced together their story from North Korean insiders, defectors, diplomats and traders, and from a careful reading of texts in English, Korean and Chinese. They focus on topics they can find out about: the changing lifestyles influenced, in part, by mobile phones; the thumb drives that have spread South Korean soaps to an appreciative audience; an economy that at the grass roots is somewhat privatized; the elite factions; and the gulag-like prison system. They have less to say about the military and nuclear weapons. Their book may lack the panache of Barbara Demick’s “Nothing to Envy” or the depth of Blaine Harden’s “The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot,” two journalistic classics on North Korea. But theirs is a surprising guide to how life is evolving inside the country.
《北韩机密》给我们提供了信息量颇高的朝鲜特写。前《经济学人》(The Economist)记者图德和前路透社记者皮尔逊的陈述，来自从朝鲜的内部人士、脱北者、外交官和商人那里获得的信息，以及对英文、韩文和中文文本的研读。他们专注于自己能力所及的话题：一定程度上由智能手机带来的生活方式变化；U盘存储让韩国肥皂剧得以在有这方面喜好的朝鲜观众中广泛传播；在底层已经实现某种私有化的经济体制；精英派系斗争；类似古拉格的监狱系统。有关朝鲜军事和核武器的内容，他们较少涉及。这本书不像芭芭拉·德米克(Barbara Demick)的《我们最幸福》(Nothing to Envy)那样吸引眼球，也没有布莱恩·哈登(Blaine Harden)的《伟大领袖与战斗机飞行员》(The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot)那样的深度，这两本书都是有关朝鲜的纪实报道经典。但是要想了解这个国家的日常生活正在发生怎样的演变，本书是一个出人意料的指南。
Their first lesson is that “Communist” and “collectivized” are no longer relevant labels for North Korea’s economy. Farmers are now permitted to hold on to about one-third of their crops. Private trade keeps the population afloat, a way of life that emerged as a survival technique during the devastating famine of the 1990s and has blossomed since. Women are the dominant traders in society: They run kiosks, make and sell food, and operate small import-export businesses. Some rent their apartments by the hour to couples looking for some privacy. The preferred time is the afternoon, when the apartment owner’s kids are at school and her husband is at work, and she can go for a walk for an hour or so. The authors write: “The process is very simple, but it acts as a reasonable summary of the people’s adaptation to post-famine North Korea: It is illegal; it is informal; it corresponds to basic human needs; and it is 100 percent capitalist.”
他们获得的第一个教训是，“共产主义”和“集体化”已经不是朝鲜经济的关键标签。农民现在被允许保留三分之一的收成。私人贸易让朝鲜百姓在经济上可以维持，这是1990年代朝鲜出现毁灭性的大饥荒时人们为求生存想出来的办法，之后就在朝鲜发展起来。女性是经商的主力：他们经营报刊亭，制作和销售食品，还做进出口贸易。有些将自己的公寓按小时出租给寻求私人空间的情侣。首选时间是下午，那时候公寓主人的孩子们去上学，丈夫去工作，她可以出去散个一小时的步。作者写到：“这个过程很简单，但它可以合情合理地概括人们在后饥荒时代朝鲜的生活方式：它是非法的；不正式的；它满足人的基本需求；它是百分百的资本主义。”
One of the barriers to rigorous reporting on North Korea is the regime’s prohibition on foreign journalists. John Sweeney, a veteran British reporter who was with the BBC’s prestigious “Panorama” show when he visited North Korea, decided to go undercover. Sweeney, who has a self-­described taste for unmasking what he calls “states of mind-lock” — Communist Romania and Albania, Scientology — posed as a university professor leading a group of students from the London School of Economics during an eight-day trip in 2013. His lie created a media storm in ­Britain, where he was rightly criticized for endangering the lives of his charges.
对朝鲜进行周密报道的障碍之一是，朝鲜当局禁止外国记者前去采访。英国资深记者约翰·斯威尼(John Sweeney)为BBC颇具声望的《全景》(Panorama)节目前往朝鲜采访时，选择了暗中进行的方式。斯威尼自称喜爱揭露他所说的“思维禁锢状态”，如共产主义时代的罗马尼亚和阿尔巴尼亚，以及山达基教等。2013年，他伪装成一名教授，带领一群伦敦经济学院(London School of Economics)的学生去朝鲜进行为期八天的访问。他的伪装行为在英国媒体圈掀起轩然大波，人们指责他将同行的学生们置于性命攸关的境地，而情况确实如此。
Tour guides showed the group run-of-the-mill sites that are on the ­government-sanctioned trips of most tourists: museums, the Pyongyang zoo, the revolving restaurant atop a tower in the capital, the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, a factory with no power, a hospital.
导游带领他们参观了一些普通景点，都是朝鲜政府允许大多数游客参观的地方：博物馆、平壤动物园、位于首都一座大厦顶层的旋转餐厅、韩朝边境的非军事区、一个没有电的工厂和一座医院。
Such is the curiosity about North Korea that Sweeney’s program scored high ratings in Britain. His book, “North Korea Undercover,” falls flat. To fill out the thin gruel of the journey, Sweeney unearthed bygone supporters of North Korea to shed light on the past: officials of an Irish Marxist group and the Italian Communist Party, and a Romanian diplomat, Izidor Urian, who first went to Pyongyang in 1948.
由于英国人对朝鲜有强烈的好奇，斯威尼的节目取得了很高的收视率。但他的书《朝鲜揭秘》(North Korea Undercover)却反应平平。为了弥补这次旅程的单薄，斯威尼在书中加入了一些早年间的朝鲜支持者的采访，让他们阐明一些朝鲜旧事，其中包括一个爱尔兰马克思主义组织和意大利共产党(Italian Communist Party)的一些官员，以及曾在1948年去过平壤的罗马尼亚外交官伊西多尔·尤里安(Izidor Urian)。
These two entirely different books come to a similar conclusion: that Kim may well last for the foreseeable future. ­Sweeney says he detected few signs of cracks in the government’s grip during his whirlwind trip. The more discerning Tudor and Pearson say that the execution of Jang was potentially destabilizing, but that the threats it posed have been papered over by fear and greed.
这两本截然不同的书得出的结论却非常相似——在可以预见的未来，金正恩可能会一直统治着朝鲜。斯威尼表示，在短暂而行程紧凑的朝鲜之旅中，他没有发现太多这个政府的统治出现动摇的迹象。更具洞察力的图德和皮尔逊表示，张成泽被处决有可能会破坏稳定，但这个事件所构成的威胁被恐惧和贪婪掩盖了。
The slight easing of the economy does not seem very likely to challenge Kim’s position. It has created the sliver of a new capitalist class, but one that tries to cozy up to the regime, not fight it. These new entrepreneurs seek entry to the elite by marriage or business ties. As much as we might like to hope that the government’s collapse is imminent, the most these three authors can offer is the possibility of a gradual opening of the country under Kim’s determined rule.
经济领域的略为放松似乎不大可能会威胁到金正恩的统治。它造就了一小拨资产阶级，但这一阶层在尽力取悦金正恩政权，而非反抗它。这些新贵试图通过联姻和建立商业联系的方式，晋身这个国家的精英阶层。尽管我们很希望看到这个政府尽快垮台，但在三位作者看来，我们最多只能期待在金正恩的绝对统治之下，这个国家可以逐渐走向开放。