A few months ago, inside a house in Douglaston, Queens, Justin Theroux, the star of the new HBO show “The Leftovers,” was in the kitchen, having his feet blow-dried. Theroux had been shooting a scene in which he had to run outside in the snow in bare feet, jump a fence, then put out a fire — over and over. When he retreated to the living room between takes, a conversation about the limitations of human feet ensued among the various people assembled, which led seamlessly to a vigorous and enthusiastic discussion about the magician David Blaine, who was once frozen in a giant block of ice.
几个月前，在皇后区道格拉斯顿的一所住户里，HBO新剧《守望尘世》(The Leftovers)的主演贾斯汀·索罗(Justin Theroux)正在厨房里用吹风机吹自己的脚。索罗刚拍完一个场景；在这场拍了一遍又一遍的戏里，他得赤脚在外面的雪地里奔跑，跳过一个栅栏，然后扑灭一场火。在拍摄之间，索罗回到客厅，和那里的工作人员聊起了人脚的局限性。对话不知不觉变成了对魔术师大卫·布莱恩(David Blaine)的热烈讨论。布莱恩曾经把自己冻在一个巨大的冰块里。
Tom Perrotta, upon whose novel “The Leftovers” is based, asked if anyone had ever seen any of Blaine’s card tricks. Damon Lindelof, the show’s co-creator and head writer, got excited and chimed in: “His most amazing trick is he’ll just say, without even a deck of cards: ‘Think of a card. You got it?’ And you just go, ‘O.K.’ And then he’ll go, ‘Four of clubs,’ and that’s the card.” Lindelof, who is 41, wears plastic-framed glasses and has a shaved head and a perpetual day’s worth of scruff, pulled out his phone and searched on YouTube for another favorite Blaine illusion: one in which Blaine puts what looks like a knitting needle through his biceps, to the disgust and delight of Ricky Gervais, and then pulls it out with no trace of blood or puncture wound. Everyone in the kitchen watched the video, horrified.
汤姆·帕洛塔(Tom Perrotta)是《守望尘世》原著小说的作者。他问有没有人看过布莱恩的扑克戏法。达蒙·林德洛夫(Damon Lindelof)是该剧的主创者之一，也是该剧的首席编剧。他兴奋起来，说道：“他的拿手好戏就是他连牌都不用就说：‘随便想张牌吧。好了没？’然后你说：‘好了。’然后他就说：‘梅花4。’你想的果然就是那张牌。”41岁的林德洛夫戴着一副塑料框的眼镜，留着光头，永远都是一副一天没梳洗过的样子。他拿出手机，在YouTube上找出了另一段他最喜爱的布莱恩的魔术视频。视频里，魔术师把一个看起来像编织针的东西穿进了自己的上臂。在旁观看的英国演员瑞奇·贾维斯(Ricky Gervais)流露出了既恶心又快乐的表情。布莱恩之后把针抽了出来，既没有流血，手臂上也没有伤口。厨房里每个人都看了视频，都被吓住了。
When it ended, several people talked about ways Blaine might have pulled off the illusion. Lindelof wanted no part in that conversation. “I would never, ever want to be told how he achieves it,” he announced. “I don’t want to feel like that’s a trick. I want to feel like it’s real.”
视频结束后，有几个人讨论起布莱恩是如何设计这个幻术的。林德洛夫没有参加讨论。“我永远也不会想知道他是怎么做的，”他说，“我不想知道那只不过是一个把戏。我想把它当做现实。”
The conceit of “The Leftovers” is also a kind of trick: 2 percent of the earth’s population disappears one day with no explanation. There appears to be no common denominator to the people who go missing. Condoleezza Rice is gone. The pope is gone. So is Gary Busey. It may be the Christian Rapture — when believers ascend to heaven — or it may not. The story begins on the third anniversary of what has become known as the Sudden Departure, and focuses on characters living in a world that is trying to figure out how to move on.
《守望尘世》的构思也有点像一个把戏：某一天，地球上百分之二的人口没有任何原因地消失了。失踪的人们并没有什么共同之处：美国国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)消失了，教皇消失了，演员加里·布希(Gary Busey)也消失了。这有可能是基督教里的信徒升天——但也有可能不是。故事开始于“突然消失”的第三周年，全世界都在探求该如何继续生存。剧情聚焦在没有消失的人们。
It’s a compelling but tricky premise for a TV show, because the show’s central mystery may (or may not) be teased out indefinitely. Perrotta’s novel wrapped up its story after 355 pages, but a successful HBO series has to sustain several seasons of intrigue. And because it is Lindelof’s first TV project since he was a creator of “Lost,” the ABC show that famously drew out several mysteries for many seasons — only to end with resolutions that many people found, to put it mildly, unsatisfying — this may be a good time to remember how comfortable Lindelof is with the whole idea of mystery. The short answer: very, despite everything.
对一部电视剧来说，这个构思虽然引人入胜，但是却难以驾驭，因为本剧核心的迷局有可能一直悬而不决（也有可能不会）。帕洛塔的原著小说仅仅用了355页就讲完了整个故事，但一部HBO剧集若想获得成功，必须要维持数季的悬念。更因为这是林德洛夫自《迷失》(Lost)之后首部执导的电视剧——那部ABC播出的剧集成功地将几个悬念延续了好几季，但它的大结局，即使是含蓄地说，也是让很多观众感到失望。现在，正是时候回忆一下林德洛夫对悬疑题材的驾驭能力如何——简而言之，尽管《迷失》不尽如人意，他仍旧是悬疑高手。
When Michael Ellenberg, an executive vice president at HBO, told Michael Lombardo, the network’s president of programming, that he wanted to bring Lindelof on to run “The Leftovers,” Lombardo’s first reaction was: “Damon Lindelof? The guy who was on ‘Lost’?” Ellenberg worked with Lindelof when he was hired to do rewrites for the film “Prometheus,” and he felt as if Lindelof could pull off the strange balance of intrigue and drama they were aiming for in “The Leftovers.” Lombardo agreed they needed a show runner who was willing to take bold chances. And though he hadn’t been a fan of “Lost” — he stopped watching after one season — he began to think of Lindelof as a promising candidate. “ ‘Lost’ had a big and loyal and robust and smart, passionate audience until the very end,” Lombardo says. “I mean, how many serialized shows do that? Most shows peter out, they end with a whimper.”
当HBO的执行副总裁迈克尔·艾伦伯格(Michael Ellenberg)告诉HBO的节目总监迈克尔·隆巴多(Michael Lombardo)他想让林德洛夫负责《守望尘世》的制作时，隆巴多的第一反应是：“戴蒙·林德洛夫？《迷失》那位？”艾伦伯格与林德洛夫在电影《普罗米修斯》中合作过。当时林德洛夫被请来参与剧本的改写。《守望尘世》期望在悬疑和剧情发展中达到某种奇异的平衡，而艾伦伯格觉得林德洛夫也许能做到这一点。隆巴多同意，他们确实需要一个敢于冒险的主创。虽然他并不是《迷失》的粉丝——看了第一季后他就不再跟了——他也开始看好林德洛夫。“《迷失》吸引了一大批聪明、积极和热情的忠实观众从头看到尾，”隆巴多说，“有哪部别的电视剧能做到这样？它们大多数都虎头蛇尾。”
So Ellenberg called Lindelof and asked if he’d read “The Leftovers.” He told Ellenberg no, and Ellenberg responded: “Read it.”
就这样，艾伦伯格打电话给林德洛夫，问他有没有读过《守望尘世》的小说。林德洛夫说他没有。“读一下吧，”艾伦伯格告诉他。
Lindelof was eager to get back to TV — “It’s what I love, it’s what I’m good at.” He’d spent the years since “Lost” ended in 2010 mostly writing for movies. He worked on “Cowboys & Aliens” and “Star Trek Into Darkness” with his friends Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci. With Jeff Jensen and Brad Bird, he wrote “Tomorrowland,” a Disney movie coming in 2015 based on the section of the Disney theme parks that houses­ futuristic rides. There was more script-doctor work on “World War Z” and several other movies he declined to name.
林德洛夫渴望重回电视创作。“这是我喜爱的，也是我拿手的事情。”在2010年《迷失》剧终后，他一直在进行电影剧本创作。他与朋友艾列克斯·库兹曼(Alex Kurtzman)和罗伯托·奥西(Roberto Orci)一起参与了电影《牛仔和外星人》(Cowboys & Aliens)以及《星际航程：黑暗无边》(Star Trek Into Darkness)的创作。他还与杰夫·詹森和布拉德·伯德一起创作了《明日世界》(Tomorrowland)。这是迪士尼将要在2015年上映的电影。电影的灵感来自于迪士尼主题公园里各种未来色彩的游乐设施。他还为《地球末日战》(World War Z)以及另外一些他不愿提及的电影担任过剧本顾问。
Being a script doctor is not exactly thankless work — the in-demand ones are thanked to the tune of hundreds of thousands of dollars — but you’re typically the second or third or fourth person brought in on a screenplay, a process that Lindelof, a born collaborator, likens to “raising someone else’s child with no overlap.” So when Ellenberg called with the prospect of another TV show, he jumped at it, even though — or perhaps because — he was still not quite over what happened after the final episode of “Lost.”
当剧本顾问并不是什么苦差——业界能人可以拿到几十万美金的报酬。但是大多数情况下，一位剧本顾问并不能从一开始就参与剧本创作，而是在别人的创作成果基础上提出意见。林德洛夫是一位天生的合作者，他把这一过程比作“在别人不在的时候养育他们的孩子”。尽管他对《迷失》最后一集之后发生的事还是耿耿于怀——也有可能正是因为如此——当林德洛夫接到关于另一个电视剧的电话时，他立刻答应参与创作。
“Lost” was both a critical and a popular hit when it debuted in 2004. The show began with an irresistible premise — a planeload of people are stranded on a mysterious island — then piled on the clues, red herrings, misdirection, blind alleys and smoke monsters. Six seasons later, when the much-anticipated, much-podcasted, much-blogged-about final episode finally arrived, Lindelof and his fellow show runner, Carlton Cuse, felt they had brought the series to a satisfying close. The show’s main character, Jack, dies while saving the world, and there was a well of light, and also the afterlife. The show’s most vocal fan contingent was not pleased. After the finale, they took to Twitter, where Lindelof was an active and lively presence, to tell him how he ruined their favorite show and wasted six years of their lives. Critics similarly decimated Lindelof and Cuse; one declared that “Lost” “ended in the worst way possible.” George R. R. Martin, author of the “Game of Thrones” novels and a co-executive producer on their HBO adaptation, summed up the magnitude of the disappointment when he told The New Yorker his biggest fear in ending his own series: “What if I do a ‘Lost’?”
在2004年首播时，《迷失》吸引了大批观众，业内评价也很高。该剧的开端展示了一个耐人寻味的大框架：一架飞机坠毁，乘客们被困在一个神秘岛屿上。在这一框架之上又加入了真假难辨、引入歧途的线索，各种死胡同以及“黑烟怪”。六季之后，当万众期待、在网络广播和博客上被讨论了无数次的最终集播完时，林德洛夫和他的同事、该剧另一位主创者卡尔顿·库斯(Carlton Cuse)都觉得他们给了剧集一个令人满意的大结局。《迷失》的主角杰克在拯救世界的行动中牺牲了。结局中还出现了一束光柱，以及来生。本剧嗓门最大的铁杆粉丝们表示了他们的不满。在大结局播出后，他们在林德洛夫活跃的推特上告诉他，他毁了他们最喜爱的电视剧，让他们浪费了六年光阴。评论家同样对林德洛夫和库斯毫不留情，其中一位说：“《迷失》的结局糟到不能更糟了。”在接受《纽约客》杂志采访时，《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)系列小说的作者和HBO改编剧集的执行制作人乔治·R·R·马丁(George R. R. Martin)的一句话总结了观众对《迷失》的失望程度。马丁谈到了自己对创作《权力的游戏》结局的恐惧：“万一我弄出一个《迷失》来该怎么办？”
Lindelof was devastated. He’s a zealous consumer of culture writing, and those critics who blasted “Lost” were ones he otherwise respected and agreed with. He tried not to care, to remember that he loved the ending and maybe that’s all that should matter. “But it’s like no, that’s not all that should matter,” he says. “I didn’t make the [finale] up in my head and sit in my room and basically weep and applaud myself for having designed this great TV show in my brain. I put it out on the airwaves for millions and millions of people to watch, with the intention of having all of them love it, and understand it, and get it.”
林德洛夫伤透了心。他是文艺类文章的热情读者。那些攻击《迷失》的评论家都是他敬重的人士。之前他们的观点他也十分认同。他尝试不去在乎批评，而是提醒自己可能最重要的是本人对结局满意。“可是并不是这样的，”林德洛夫说，“我本人喜不喜欢结局并不重要。我可不是想出了这个结局，然后坐在房间里为之感动得热泪盈眶，赞赏自己创作出了这么一部了不起的电视剧。我的电视剧是播给百万观众看的，我想让他们喜欢它并理解它。”
That didn’t happen. Sure, a lot of people liked the ending. But four years later, the negative reaction to the ending still haunts Lindelof. Until last year, his Twitter bio read: “I’m one of the idiots behind ‘Lost.’ And no, I don’t understand it, either.” There, he welcomed his detractors, retweeting their most virulent insults.
可这并没有发生。当然，还是有很多人喜欢《迷失》的结局。但是四年过后，林德洛夫对结局的负面评价还是难以忘怀。直到去年，他的推特的自我介绍还这么写着：“我就是搞砸《迷失》的蠢蛋之一。我不知道为什么会是这样。”在推特上，他欣然接受批评，还不时转发最为毒恶的侮辱。
“The tweets were unbearable,” his wife, Heidi Fugeman Lindelof, told me. “ ‘You ruined the last six years of my life?’ He was flogging himself constantly.” Then came the finale of “Breaking Bad,” which he watched at his house with Peter Berg, an executive producer on “The Leftovers.” Following the episode, Lindelof signed onto Twitter to say how much he loved the show and to read other fans’ reactions. His whole feed, however, was full of fans spurred by the finale of “Breaking Bad” to start in all over again on “Lost.”
“那些评论可真让人受不了，”林德洛夫的妻子海蒂·福格曼·林德洛夫(Heidi Fugeman Lindelof)告诉我说，“‘你毁了我过去六年的光阴？’他无时无刻不在自责。”林德洛夫和《守望尘世》的执行制片人之一彼得·伯格(Peter Berg)在家中观看了《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)的大结局。剧集播出后，林德洛夫登入推特查阅别的粉丝对结局的反应并分享了他对该剧的喜爱。可是粉丝们有了《绝命毒师》的结局做对比，又一遍在林德洛夫推文的回复里吐槽《迷失》是多么失败。
That’s when he knew he’d had it. “I’m inviting it,” he realized. If he was calling himself an idiot, “then you’re allowed to call me an idiot.” Lindelof quite intentionally deleted the account on Oct. 14, which is the date of the Sudden Departure in “The Leftovers.” This was his last tweet: “After much thought and deliberation, I’ve decided t” — ending in midsentence.
林德洛夫这时明白过来，他已经受够了。“这都是我自找的，”他说，如果他自己把自己叫做一个蠢蛋，“那你也可以这么叫我。”在去年10月14日，也就是《守望尘世》中“突然消失”发生的那一天，林德洛夫注销了他的推特账户。他的最后推文是这样的：“经过反复思考，我决定”——句子到这里戛然而止。
This is what he was thinking: “I do not like the feeling that I experience when people talk about how much ‘Lost’ sucked. I can no longer acknowledge it. I spent three years acknowledging it. I hear you. I understand. I get it. I’m not in denial about it. That said, I can’t continue to be this persona. I can’t continue to acknowledge you, because acknowledging you invites more of it, and it really hurts my feelings. Nobody cares that my feelings are hurt. It’s my job for my feelings to not get hurt.”
他当时是这么想的：“人们谈论《迷失》是如何糟糕时，我很伤心，我并不喜欢这种感觉。我花了三年时间接受批评，我不能再这样下去了。我听到了你们的批评，我理解你们的批评。我不再自欺欺人了。但是，这样的自我并不能持续。我不能再继续表示接受批评，因为这样做又会招致更多的批评。而批评实在是伤感情。没有人在乎我是否会伤心。不让自己受伤是我自己的职责。”
“Damon is just an immensely sensitive person,” says Carlton Cuse, who has moved on to shows like “Bates Motel” and “The Strain.” (When they worked on “Lost” together, they were christened by fans with the portmanteau “Darlton,” as if they were Brangelina.) “I made peace with the fact that there were going to be people who didn’t like the ending, but that was really rooted in this belief that a lot of people really were going to like the ending. I think if you do anything risky artistically, some people are going to love it, and then there are people who aren’t going to love it.”
“达蒙是一个超级敏感的人，”卡尔顿·库斯说。《迷失》之后，库斯参与了电视剧集《贝茨旅馆》(Bates Motel)和《血族》(The Strain)的制作。（当他们俩一起为《迷失》效力时，粉丝们把他俩合称为“达尔顿”(Darlton)，这可是“布拉吉丽娜”[Brangelina,布拉德·皮特和安吉丽娜·朱莉的合称——译注]才享有的待遇。）库斯接着说道：“我坦然接受有人不喜欢《迷失》结局这个事实，这是因为我坚信同样有许多人会喜欢这个结局。如果你在艺术上做了什么铤而走险的事，注定会有人喜欢，有人不喜欢。”
In part, Lindelof may be a victim of a situation he didn’t create but helped nurture: He became, with “Lost,” a celebrity show runner, a species that was previously very rare in television. A show runner — basically the person, usually a writer, in charge of a program’s creative management and direction — of Darlton’s generation never hoped to be known to the public, except perhaps by way of a post-credits vanity card for a production company. But with the advent of the Internet, fans could not only lionize (or heckle) show runners but interact with them as well, peppering them with questions and even influencing the outcomes of plot lines.
因为《迷失》，林德洛夫成了一位之前电视剧史上少有的明星主创人，并促使这个概念成为一种趋势。这虽然不是林德洛夫刻意为之，但是在某种程度上，他现在却为自己的名声所累。主创人通常是一位写手，负责管理节目的创意和走向。除了可能在节目结尾制片公司的片花里得到一点曝光，“达尔顿”这一代主创人从来没有期望观众会认识他们。但是在互联网时代，粉丝不但仰慕（或是骚扰）主创人，他们还会和主创人互动，提出各种问题，甚至会影响剧的情节走向。
Initially, for Lindelof, this kind of fame was very attractive — he interacted eagerly with the fan base of “Lost,” stoking their expectations and ruminations about the show’s labyrinthine plot. The writers eagerly threw out new clues, despite the fact that Lindelof and Cuse didn’t even know how long the show would last until about midway through its six seasons. “For the first 55 episodes of ‘Lost,’ we didn’t know how long the marathon was,” Lindelof says. “Am I running a 100-meter dash, or am I running a marathon? How many laps is this thing?’ Because that’s really going to change the way that I run.”
最初，林德洛夫非常享受这种名气——他积极地和《迷失》粉丝群互动，征询他们对迷宫般剧情的看法和期望。尽管林德洛夫和库斯直到《迷失》六季过半才知道整个剧会什么时候结束，但他们不断在剧里加入新线索。“《迷失》的前55集里，我们不知道这个过程会有多长，”林德洛夫说，“我是要百米冲刺呢？还是在跑马拉松？我得要跑几圈？知道这些会影响我如何运作整个剧集。”
The success of the show also created outsize expectation for new surprises. “The longer you tell a story, the larger the stakes have to be,” he says. “It’s no longer satisfying to say: Are these people who crashed in this plane going to make it out O.K.? Are they going to fall in love? Are they going to live? Are they going to die? It’s like no, are they going to save the world?”
《迷失》的成功也使观众对层出不穷的新惊喜的期望过高。“剧拖得越长，就越难使观众满意，”林德洛夫解释道，“这些飞机遇难者最后都生还了吗？他们会坠入爱河吗？他们会生存下去吗？他们会死吗？知道这些不再令人满意。观众想知道的是：他们会拯救世界吗？”
In the end, they did save the world, but the way they did it left some faithful viewers unhappy. Cuse has made his peace with this; Lindelof still hasn’t.
最终世界得到了拯救。但是其方式却让一些忠实粉丝失望。库斯坦然接受了这一点，而林德洛夫还没有。
“So that’s what I’m living with,” Lindelof says. “I don’t have the self-confidence or whatever it is to say, ‘Well, screw those guys.’ I love the show, and I wouldn’t change a thing.” He sighs. “But that’s not what I’m saying to myself. I’m thinking, Where did I go wrong? What can I learn from ‘Lost’? How can this not happen again?”
“我还是不能释怀，”他说，“我还没有自信到说‘去他们的吧’。我热爱这个剧，如果有机会我也不会做任何修改。”他叹了口气接着说：“可是我没有对自己这么说。我一直在想：我哪儿做错了？我能从《迷失》得到什么样的教训？我怎么做才能避免再次发生同样的事情？”
Part of what affected Lindelof so deeply about “Lost” is that he created the show in his own image. Jack, the show’s hero, became an avatar for Lindelof, at least in Lindelof’s mind: a man who had just lost his father, who had been given the burden of leadership that he didn’t feel ready or willing to handle.
《迷失》对林德洛夫影响之深，有一部分原因是他把自己写进了剧里。该剧的主人公杰克成了林德洛夫的化身，至少他内心是这么想的。和林德洛夫一样，杰克失去了父亲，并且尽管认为自己不能胜任，还是迫不得已承担起了领导的角色。
Lindelof grew up in Teaneck, N.J., the only child of an outgoing schoolteacher who was raised in a traditional Jewish family, and an introverted banker who was an atheist. “There was this real fungible kind of romantic love,” he says. “But there was no pragmatic basis for it.”
林德洛夫在新泽西州的提内克长大成人。他是家中独子。母亲是来自一个传统犹太家庭、性格外向的学校老师，父亲则是一位内向的、持无神论的银行职员。“他们的结合没有任何门当户对的基础，但这浪漫的爱情也没有什么独特之处，”林德洛夫说。
He and his mother, Susan, were close; he would tell her stories from a very young age — as early as 2 ½ years, she recalls — mostly about robots and spaceships, asking her to write them down, which she would. His father, David, was more distant. He would often retreat into the attic of the house, where he kept a study. When Lindelof was 11, his father moved out. Lindelof moved from his bedroom to the attic, into his father’s old space. It was cold, and he often hit his head on the A-frame, he recalls, but it was easier to transition to an older version of himself without totally turning his back on the “Star Wars” sheets and “Batman” alarm clock that remained in his childhood bedroom.
他和母亲苏珊的关系密切。小时候——苏珊回忆最早是他两岁半的时候——他会给母亲讲故事。母亲应他的要求把这些大多是关于机器人和宇宙飞船的故事都写了下来。林德洛夫和他的父亲大卫关系比较疏远。后者经常把自己关在家中阁楼的书房中。林德洛夫11岁的时候，父亲搬了出去。林德洛夫从自己的卧室搬到这个原来属于父亲的领地。阁楼间很冷，林德洛夫回忆到他的脑袋还经常撞到A字形横梁上。但是这里的气氛使他更容易地完成了从孩童到成人的转变。这样，童年卧室的“星球大战”床单和“蝙蝠侠”闹钟得以保留，不用和它们彻底说再见。
His relationship with his father got a little better once, in the wake of his parents’ divorce, they began to spend time alone together, and also once Lindelof got older. They were never able to trade in emotion, but they were able to trade in the popular culture of comic books and sci-fi that the older Lindelof loved so much. “Look, who isn’t withholding?” Lindelof asks. “Especially in our folks’ generation, that was actually the way everyone was until Dr. Spock came along. My mom decided to break from the way that she was parented and do the exact opposite.” But his father resisted. His father’s philosophy, he recalls, was: “I can love my son. I can hang out with my son. I can share things with my son. But I’m not going to tell my son that I’m proud of him or that he can do anything that he wants because those things are not necessarily true. He never said to me, ‘You don’t have what it takes.’ That was just my deduction based on not being told that I had what it takes.”
他和父亲的关系曾一度融洽。在他父母离婚和他长大以后，林德洛夫和父亲开始单独相处。他们不会彼此倾诉情感，但是父子两人却会交流对流行文化的看法，尤其是林德洛夫热爱的卡通和科幻作品。“谁不在压抑自己的真情实感？”林德洛夫问道，“尤其是我父母那一代，在斯波克博士（Dr. Spock，美国著名育儿专家）的理论流行开之前，每个人都是这样。我母亲决定叛离她曾经接受的育儿方式，而用相反的方法教育我。”而他父亲没有这样做。林德洛夫回忆到他父亲的育儿之道是这样的：“我可以爱我的儿子。我可以和他相处，和他分享。但是我不会对他说我为他感到自豪，或是只要他想，就能成就任何事。父亲从来没有对我说过：‘你不行。’但是我认为他是这么想的，因为他也没有告诉过我‘你行’。”
Lindelof attended the film school at New York University, then moved to Los Angeles for what he decided would be his own, self-styled grad school: Working in the business, learning as much as possible from anyone who had it to teach to him. He worked at an agency, where he became engrossed in trying to figure out why some writers worked and other equally talented ones didn’t.
林德洛夫上了纽约大学的电影学院，然后搬到了洛杉矶，开始了自己给自己设定的研究生学习：投身电影行业，尽一切可能从任何能教他的人的那里学习。他给一家经纪公司打工。在那里，他痴迷于探究为什么有的编剧能成功，而其他编剧却怀才不遇。
He eventually got a job in development, where he read scripts and sat in on meetings, and it was there that the mystery was solved. “Writers who got fired tended to not collaborate well, and as talented as they were on the page, they didn’t seem to understand that they were being paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to do whatever they were told even if what they were being told to do was bad.”
他最终在剧本创作部门找到了一份工作。这份工作需要他读剧本并参与讨论。这时他解开了谜团。“被解雇的编剧们往往不懂合作。在写作上他们很有才能，但是他们却不理解自己拿着几十万美元的高薪，必须得听从于别人的指挥，尽管有时候是在瞎指挥。”
The writers who were better at maintaining their scripts (and therefore their jobs) till the finish were more collaborative. “And by collaborative, it wasn’t saying, ‘Great note,’ if a note was idiotic. It was about taking everything that came at you and acknowledging there might be a note behind a note.”
而那些剧本最终得以采用（工作也得以保全）的编剧们更愿意合作。“合作的意思并不是当来了一个愚蠢的意见时，你说‘这个意见太好了’。合作指的是接纳所有的意见，并承认某些意见背后也许有些道理。”
At 27, he got a writers’ assistant job on the short-lived “Wasteland,” where he was quickly promoted to staff writer. He then came onboard at “Nash Bridges,” the Don Johnson drama headed up by Carlton Cuse, his future collaborator. In 2002, his father died. Two months later, he started dating Heidi Fugeman, an associate producer. They married in 2005 and now have a son in first grade.
27岁那年，林德洛夫在电视剧《荒地》(Wasteland)中担任编剧助理并很快成为正式编剧。《荒地》并没有维持多长。之后，他又参与了《特警天龙》(Nash Bridges)的创作。该剧由唐·约翰逊(Don Johnson)主演，林德洛夫未来的合作者卡尔顿·库斯是该剧主要编剧。2002年，林德洛夫的父亲去世。两个月后，他开始和海蒂·福格曼约会。福格曼是一位助理制片人。他们在2005年结婚，他们的儿子现在在上小学一年级。
When they first got together, Lindelof was very much in mourning for his father, and Heidi would tell him that he should talk to a therapist. “I said: ‘Why do I need to talk to a therapist about my dad’s death? He died. I’m sad. I miss him. This is the natural order of things.’ ”
当他们刚开始交往时，林德洛夫还深陷于丧父的悲伤。海蒂告诉他应该去看心理医生。“我说：‘我为什么要和心理医生谈论我父亲的去世?他死了，我很伤心。我很想念他。这是一个正常的心理过程，’”林德洛夫说。
Not long after that, Lindelof started on “Lost,” where he’d been called in as a co-creator by J.J. Abrams on the recommendation of an ABC development executive who admired his work. Abrams and Lindelof liked each other immediately; Abrams was impressed with the heart Lindelof planned to bring to the show, particularly the perspective of the island’s de facto leader, Jack, a man of science who had little tolerance for discussions of faith and magic. “It was a blast to stumble upon someone who allowed me to dream bigger,” Abrams says. “It’s playing tennis with someone better than you. It just felt like it’s better for the game.”
那之后不久，林德洛夫就开始了在《迷失》的工作。一位欣赏林德洛夫的ABC创作部门主管把他推荐给J·J·艾布拉姆斯(J.J. Abrams)，后者邀请林德洛夫加入《迷失》主创团队。艾布拉姆斯和林德洛夫一拍即合。艾布拉姆斯对林德洛夫给剧集设计的核心内容颇为赞赏，尤其是岛上事实上的领导人杰克这个角色的设定——这个人物相信科学，对关于信仰和未知力量的讨论没有任何容忍度。“遇到一个能激发我想象力的人真是太棒了，”艾布拉姆斯说，“这就好像和一个比你好的对手打网球，这让整个比赛水准都得到了提升。”
They cast, scouted, wrote and directed the pilot in 13 short weeks — and then Tom Cruise called Abrams with the opportunity to direct “Mission: Impossible III.” He accepted, leaving the show in Lindelof’s hands.
他们花了短短13个星期的时间选角、编剧和执导《迷失》的试播集。这之后，汤姆·克鲁斯邀请艾布拉姆斯去执导《碟中谍3》。艾布拉姆斯接受了邀请，把《迷失》交在了林德洛夫的手里。
“I’m 30 years old,” Lindelof remembers. “This is a juggernaut that we’re shooting in Hawaii — there’s no way J.J. is just going to just leave me holding this baby. I’m completely and totally unqualified as a parent.” But he did, and almost immediately, it was too much for Lindelof to handle on his own.
“我那时30岁，”林德洛夫回忆到，“我们正在夏威夷摄制这个大项目——J.J.要把《迷失》这个宝贝留给我一个人负责，这简直不可思议。我是一个完全不能胜任的家长。”但是艾布拉姆斯就这么做了。立刻，林德洛夫感到他一个人根本吃不消。
Lindelof called Cuse and brought him on. Together, they were sure what they were doing was weird enough that it would be this bizarre half-season series — a cool DVD gift set for nerds.
林德洛夫打电话给库斯，请他加入了团队。他俩都觉得他们的作品太怪异，只会播上半季就被取消，然后只能出个专门给铁杆粉丝的DVD礼品套装，聊以慰藉。
But that’s not what happened. The pilot was broadcast, the critics loved it and the ratings were huge. “When I got the call the next morning as to what the ratings were, I literally cried,” Lindelof said. “Not with joy, but sort of like, this is too much.” By then he’d been working for five months without a day off. Network shows are grueling, and he was expected to make more than 20 episodes that season. “I wanted the ‘Firefly’ trajectory. Like, we’re going to be kind of pushing up against cancellation, and we’re going to make 13 of these things, and then it will be like this cool cult success.”
但事实出乎他们意料。试播集播出后，好评如潮，收视率也很高。“当第二天早晨我被电话告知收视率时，我哭了出来，”林德洛夫说，“倒不是因为高兴，而是有点无法承受。”那时，他已经连续工作了5个月，中间没有休息一天。给电视网制作剧集相当辛苦。在那一季里，林德洛夫还要再创作出另外20多集。“我希望《迷失》能像《萤火虫》(Firefly)那样，时刻都有被砍的危险，但是我们迎头而上，做出13集来，让我们的剧成为酷酷的邪典之作。”
“When you’re a show runner,” Cuse says, “the Holy Grail is if you could have a show that’s both critically acclaimed and a ratings success. I remember Damon walking into my office and saying: ‘Oh, my God. Does that mean we have to keep making this?’ ”
“如果你是主创者，”库斯说，“那最高境界就是你的剧不但能得到业内好评，收视率也很成功。我记得达蒙当时走进我的办公室说：‘天哪，难道这意味着我们得继续拍下去？’”
The first thing Lindelof did when he assembled the writers’ room for “The Leftovers” was to set his eight writers on the task of trying to understand the world that would come to exist in the years following an event as huge as the Sudden Departure. Two percent of the population isn’t a lot of people, he explained, but it’s enough to have affected many families, as well as rocked people’s notions of faith. In the wake of this, he asked his writers, how would the world react? Some people would find religion; others would leave it.
林德洛夫组建完《守望尘世》写作团队的第一件事，就是让他的八个编剧试图理解在经历“突然消失”那么重大的事件后，世界在接下来的几年里会是什么样。百分之二的消失人口并不算多，他解释道。但是这足以影响到许多家庭，也会使人们的信仰信念产生动摇。他向他的编剧们提问：在事件刚发生不久，世界会做出怎样的反应？一些人会皈依宗教，而另一些人则会放弃信仰。
“ ‘The Leftovers’ is not constructed as a cliffhangery show,” Lindelof says. “It’s not built to be like, oh, my God, we’ve got to watch the next episode immediately. But at the same time, it is built so that when one episode ends, you want to keep watching the show. So by virtue of that, [we are] finding the spirit of: Well, what will make someone excited to watch ‘The Leftovers’ this Sunday night?”
“《守望尘世》每集的结构安排并不总是要吊人胃口，”林德洛夫说，“这个剧并不会让观众说：‘天哪，我等不及看下一集了。’虽然这么说，剧情的结构还是要环环相扣。所以，我们要把剧编得让观众在每个周日的晚上想回来继续观看。”
He also wanted a different perspective on the Departure than the book provided. The book’s protagonist, Kevin, was the mayor of a town, but for the pilot Lindelof recast him as the police chief. “I just wanted him to be on the front lines of stress and aggravation,” Lindelof says. “If the world is on the precipice of tipping toward the brink, if people are losing their minds, if people are destabilized, if people are acting violently or they’re depressed, the cops are constantly going to be dealing with those issues. And I want him to be on the inside of that as opposed to the outside of that.”
林德洛夫对“突然消失”的描述，也想采取与原著小说不同的角度。书中的主人公凯文(Kevin)是小镇的镇长，但在试播集中，林德洛夫把他的身份改为警长。“我想让他身处矛盾和冲突的前线，”他说，“如果世界危在旦夕，人们失去理智，破坏秩序，诉诸暴力或者陷入抑郁，警察总是要随时处理这些问题。我希望他身处其中，而不是超然世外。”
The writers eventually spent a full month just discussing these issues, both specifically and generally — studying the Old Testament, debating personal philosophies, and then working to create a sustainable mythology for the show before they started scripting episodes.
编剧们最终用了一个月时间讨论这些大略的和具体的问题——研究《圣经旧约》，辩论个人的哲学信仰，为全剧搭建悬疑框架，然后开始编写每一集情节。
“There are people who are comfortable with mystery,” Lindelof explained to me in his writers’ room, sitting at the head of a conference table. “And there are people who are uncomfortable with mystery. I’m very comfortable with mystery; I think most of the people in this room are comfortable with mystery.”
“有的人喜欢悬疑，”林德洛夫坐在编剧室会议桌的首位，对我解释说，“有的人不喜欢悬疑。我本人非常喜欢悬疑，我认为这个屋子里的多数人也喜欢悬疑。”
This spring, I met Lindelof at his office on the Warner Brothers lot, which is decorated with: a portrait of Lincoln in a Stormtrooper mask; a “Star Wars” poster; a bust of Iron Man; a “Twilight Zone” pinball machine; a near life-size print of a painting of William Shatner as Captain Kirk; a replica of the bike from “Pee-wee’s Big Adventure”; and all manner of “Lost” paraphernalia — a polar bear, a cartoon painting of the cast, Dharma Initiative-brand cans of beer and the original hatch from the island. There’s also a dart board that was custom-ordered by Lindelof and that consists of a photo of his face.
今年春天，我跟林德洛夫在他位于华纳兄弟公司的办公室碰面。办公室内的装饰包括：头戴《星球大战》(Star War)中冲锋战士头盔的林肯画像、一张《星球大战》海报、一座钢铁侠塑像、电影《阴阳魔界》(Twilight Zone)中的弹子游戏机、几乎真人大小的《星际迷航》中柯克船长扮演者威廉·夏特纳(William Shatner)的海报、电影《荒唐小混蛋奇遇记》(Pee-wee’s Big Adventure)中的摩托车模型，以及《迷失》一剧的种种纪念品：一头北极熊、剧组的卡通画像、“达玛项目”牌子的啤酒罐，以及剧中的圆形仓，甚至还有一个林德洛夫专门订做的以他自己的脸为靶子的飞镖盘。
He’d been up till about 1 or 2 each morning that week, alone in the night with an editor, making sure each episode of “The Leftovers” met his exacting desires. One thing Lindelof loves about television is that it allows writers to be auteurs, with a degree of control they never got in films. Yet as he was nearing the end of the writing process on the first season, he still wasn’t quite sure how it was going. They were still trying to figure out, he said, “what the show wants to be,” and he felt a bit unmoored.
那个星期，为了和一位编辑一起确保《守望尘世》的每一集都能到达预期要求，他已经连续每天熬夜到凌晨一两点钟。林德洛夫喜爱电视的一个原因是电视编剧可以像电影的性格导演，在一定程度上控制全局。但是在第一季创作即将结束时，林德洛夫还是不怎么确定剧情走向。他解释说他们还没有给剧最后定性。他显得不是很有把握。
“There might be a lot of noise around the show, and people might love the pilot, but it might completely and totally sputter and burn out,” he said. “We have not written a script or produced an episode yet where I go: ‘Booyah! That’s what I’m talking about!’ They’ve all been a gargantuan struggle.”
“这个剧可能会招致各种各样的评论。人们可能很喜欢试播集，但是很有可能的是后面的剧集就会雷声大雨点小，仓促收尾，”他说，“到现在为止，还没有一集剧本或是拍完的剧集会让我说：‘哎呀，这就是我想要的！’现在拍完的每一集都不是那么顺利，而是绞尽脑汁、费力工作的成果。”
Having seen the pilot for “The Leftovers,” I can report that it is lovely and scary and haunting; that it is full of overtones of sadness and undertones of magic; and that it is a spiritual cousin to “Lost” while also being a very different show.
我看了《守望尘世》的试播集，可以告诉大家，这一集拍的非常漂亮，恐怖而又让人回味。全集充满了一种忧伤的基调和对神秘力量的暗示。这和《迷失》在精神上一脉相承，但同时，这又是一部非常不一样的剧。
The one striking similarity is that “The Leftovers,” like “Lost,” is filled with recognizably Lindelofian characters: people conflicted by the tension between faith and science and burdened with a desire to do good in a world that doesn’t make doing good all that easy. Lindelof himself exists as a kind of Lindelofian character, too: a boy born into a home that is ultimately destroyed by the struggle between faith and pragmatism. His father, who never told him he was special, departs, and the boy moves into the space he once occupied. The father, who has remained distant, dies, and the man is torn between his mother’s faith and his father’s lack of faith, so much so that he creates a TV show about it. It stars a doctor who is cast away on an island and asked to lead a group of people, struggles, but eventually learns that he was built specifically for just this challenge.
一处引人注目的相同点是《守望尘世》和《迷失》一样，充满了容易辨识的林德洛夫式的人物：他们在宗教信仰和科学的冲突间不知如何抉择。他们有种为善的使命感，但现实世界却使他们很难实现这个愿望。林德洛夫自己就是这样一个人物：他的家庭最终毁于宗教信仰与实用主义的冲突。他的父亲从来没告诉他他与众不同。父亲离去后，儿子搬到了父亲的地盘。当关系一直疏远的父亲去世后，长大成人的儿子在母亲的信仰和父亲的信仰缺失之间不知如何选择。他如此纠结而创作出了一部关于此的电视剧：作为主角的一位医生遇险后漂流到一座荒岛上，难友推举他成为他们的领袖，而他犹豫不决，但是最终明白他的人生使命就是接受这一挑战。
But Lindelof doesn’t live in a Damon Lindelof world; he lives in this one. And in this world, there’s no way to stop people from reminding you of all the ways you’ve failed them, even when the perceived failure is long past. In this world, all you can do is sit yourself down and start again and muster the confidence that you might please more people — maybe even all of them.
但是林德洛夫却不像他的角色一样生活在剧里的世界，他属于这个现实世界。在这个世界里，尽管你的失败是很久前发生的事情了，但却没有办法阻止人们时刻提醒你是如何让他们失望。在这个世界里，你所能做的就是坐下来从头开始，重新相信自己能让更多人——甚至是所有人——满意。
As he and his writers were finishing the writing part of this first season, he told me he was full of doubt. He was wondering: ‘Why did I ever take this on? This is really, really hard. I don’t know if I can do this without failing. All of which I’m experiencing at this very moment in the show.” It’s not lost on him that, for all the residual conflicts he has about “Lost,” he’s not only back on TV, but back working on a show that revolves around a prolonged mystery — one that will eventually have to be wrapped up in a satisfying fashion. “More than anything else, me taking this show says: ‘Yeah, I’ve made my persona into the guy who is clearly emotionally affected by your dislike of “Lost,” but here we go again.’ I’m getting back on the roller coaster because I can’t help myself.”
当他和他的编剧们即将完成第一季的创作时，他告诉我说自己充满了疑惑：“我为什么当初要接受这个工作？这真的是很难。我不知道这次我会不会失败。我在进行剧的创作时就想着这些。”尽管他对《迷失》直到现在还心存矛盾，他不但重回了电机剧行业，而且他担纲的这部剧和《迷失》一样，围绕着一个贯穿全剧的谜团——而这个谜团最终要以一种令人信服满意的方式解开。林德洛夫很清楚这些：“别的不说，我接手《守望尘世》意味着：‘对，我就是那个因为你们对《迷失》的厌恶而深感困扰的家伙，但是我现在要重新开始了。’我重回冒险，因为我欲罢不能。”
At his office, I mentioned to him that I had become consumed with finding out how David Blaine pulled off that trick in the video Lindelof showed me, the one with Ricky Gervais and the giant needle. And that I had learned the answer. I asked Lindelof if he wanted to know it. He answered immediately, without hesitating: “Yes.”
在他的办公室里，我提到自从他给我看了那个瑞奇·贾维斯和大编织针的视频后，我就孜孜不倦地想找出大卫·布莱恩是怎么变这个魔术的。我找到了答案。我问林德洛夫想不想知道。他毫不犹豫地马上回答道：“当然。”
So I told him.
我告诉了他。
He sighed and said, “I can’t pretend I’m not disappointed knowing that.” I told him I was, too. After a minute, he exhaled slowly. “I guess that’s what this is all about,” he said. “We prefer the magic to the knowledge.”
他叹了口气，说：“实不相瞒，我很后悔知道答案。”我说我也是。过了一分钟，他慢慢呼出一口气，说：“我猜这说明了一点：我们更喜欢魔术，而不是真相。”
Then he asked me: “You’re not going to ruin David Blaine’s illusion, are you? You’re not going to print it?” I promised him I wouldn’t. I told him I would never tell anyone else what I knew, and he told me he wouldn’t, either.
然后他问我：“你不会揭穿大卫·布莱恩的魔术吧？你不会把他是怎么做的写出来吧？”我向他保证不会。我告诉他我也不会告诉其他人。他说他也不会。