For six years, Aaron and Jill Ginsberg lived in the ground-floor rental of an owner-occupied brownstone in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. They had their own washer-dryer and a shared backyard with a grill.
六年来，艾伦(Aaron)和吉尔·金斯伯格(Jill Ginsberg)都租住在布鲁克林(Brooklyn)展望高地区(Prospect Heights)一座褐石房屋的底层。他们有一台自己的洗衣/烘干机，一个与人共用的后院和其中的烧烤架。
But the windows in their small one-bedroom did not let in daylight, let alone sunlight. Their view was “people’s ankles on Carlton Avenue,” Mr. Ginsberg said. The couple postponed the purchase of furniture, uncertain what size would be best for the long term.
但是，他们那间小卧室的采光很差，阳光根本照不进来。他们的视野里，尽是“卡尔顿大街(Carlton Avenue)上行人的脚脖子，”金斯伯格先生说。夫妇俩推迟了购买家具的计划，因为不确定从长远看，要买多大尺寸的才合适。
The two, both in their early 30s, talked about moving to a bigger, brighter place, but they couldn’t find one that made them willing to give up their $2,350 monthly rent.
夫妻俩都是三十岁出头。他们曾商量过，搬到一个空间更大、采光更好的地方去，但是找不到一处地方令他们愿意放弃目前2350美元（约合人民币14591元）的月租。
So, last summer, they began the hunt for a place to buy. They spent hours online, checking mortgage and rent vs. buy calculators. For a budget of $600,000 to $700,000, they wanted a two-bedroom condominium, preferably in Prospect Heights, with an open kitchen or “at least a kitchen that was convenient enough to interact with guests,” said Mr. Ginsberg, an avid cook who works in the hospitality field. Mrs. Ginsberg is the director of marketing at Alexis Bittar, the jewelry company. They met when they worked at the same advertising agency.
因此从去年夏天起，他们开始四处寻找可买的房源。他们花了大把时间在网上搜房，查询按揭贷款的相关信息和“租vs.买计算器”(rent vs. buy calculators)。他们的预算大概是60万到70万美元（约合人民币372万到435万元），想找一套有两间卧室的公寓，最好在展望高地区，要有开放的厨房，或者“至少有一处方便招待客人的厨房区”，热衷厨艺又热情好客的金斯伯格先生说。金斯伯格太太是一家珠宝公司Alexis Bittar的市场部总监。当年他们是在同一家广告代理公司工作时相知的。
In the frighteningly competitive market, said their agent, Chris Toland of the Corcoran Group, they had to look at places priced a little bit under their budget to allow them to bid above the asking price. They found that most two-bedrooms they could afford needed full renovations.
他们的房产经纪人，科克伦集团(Corcoran Group)的克里斯·托兰(Chris Toland)说，在这个竞争白热化的市场上，他们最好找那种报价比他们预算稍低一点儿的房源。这样，他们才有空间提价、中标。他们发现，自己在价格上能承受的房源，大部分都是买下之后需要彻底翻新的。
“Every open house was like a crowded cocktail party,” Mr. Toland said. In one case, the line snaked down the sidewalk and those waiting were shepherded in five at a time.
“每次看房时间，就像一场拥挤的鸡尾酒派对，”托兰说。有一回，看房队伍都排到人行道上去了，每次只让五个人进去。
The Ginsbergs found a discouraging mob scene at a walk-up condo building on Prospect Place. There, a nice two-bedroom, with monthly charges in the mid-$800s, was listed at $629,000.
在展望高地区一栋没有电梯的公寓楼里，金斯伯格夫妇就遇到过这样令人沮丧的人头攒动的场面。那是一套很棒的双卧室公寓，每月收费大约850美元（约合人民币5278元），报价是62.9万美元（约合人民币390.5万元）。
The kitchen, which was small and lacked storage, needed revamping, but the living room was large and a back deck overlooked an interior courtyard. Out of around 15 offers, theirs was third in line.
厨房很小，缺少储物空间，需要重新装修。但是起居室很大，后阳台可以俯瞰整个院子。这处房源一共收到15份报价，金斯伯格夫妇的报价排名第三。
They felt it “an achievement even to be in the running,” Mrs. Ginsberg said. That apartment closed at $699,000.
他们觉得“重在参与，参加报价也是一种成功”，金斯伯格夫人说。最终，这套公寓以69.9万美元（约合人民币434万元）成交。
The Ginsbergs changed their requirements. They would go for a co-op rather than a condo. They were willing to sacrifice a second bedroom for a den, an office or even an alcove. Mr. Ginsberg still insisted on a well-functioning kitchen, however.
夫妻俩调整他们的诉求。他们不再寻找共管公寓(condo)，而是转向了合作公寓(co-op)。他们愿意牺牲第二间卧室作为一间书房、一间办公室，甚至是一间壁橱。然而，金斯伯格先生对一个功能齐全的厨房还是很坚持。
“We tried to go to every single open house together so we could always be productive and make a decision where need be,” he said. His wife, however, was unable to make it to a one-bedroom with a den in a six-story co-op building on Park Place. It had a large square foyer and, though on the ground floor, received light from a back garden. The asking price was $575,000; monthly maintenance, less than $1,100.
“每次一有看房机会，我们都不愿错过，而且会一起去，这样比较有成效，该决断的时候也能立刻做出决定，”金斯伯格先生说。然而，他的夫人却对公园广场(Park Place)一座六层合作公寓大楼里的那套房源犹豫不决。这套公寓有一间卧室及一个小房间，还有一个很大的方形门厅，尽管是在一楼，但后花园可以让光照进来。房源的要价是57.5万美元（约合人民币357万元），每月的物业费不到1100美元（约合人民币6830元）。
Unwilling to delay, Mr. Ginsberg went ahead and bid. This time, they were second in line.
事不宜迟，金斯伯格先生立刻提出了报价。这次，他们的报价排在第二位。
“We went from No. 3 to No. 2, so we were making headway,” Mrs. Ginsberg said. That one closed at $600,000.
“我们从第三位升到了第二位，所以还是有进步的，”金斯伯格夫人说。最后，该房源以60万美元（约合人民币373万元）成交。
They went to see a one-bedroom in a co-op building facing Grand Army Plaza. The listing photos showed no interiors, just views and the building’s facade.
他们又去看了一套正对着布鲁克林大军广场(Grand Army Plaza)、只有一间卧室的合作公寓。房源信息上的图片看不到房子内部的情况，只能看到窗外的视野和公寓外观。
“I knew that meant the kitchen and bathroom were in dire shape,” Mrs. Ginsberg said. “We were so eager to go in and see what was wrong with it.”
“我知道，那可能意味着厨房和浴室都很槽糕，”金斯伯格夫人说，“我们急切地想去看看这套房子有什么缺点。”
The couple found an apartment that had remained untouched since the building was erected in 1959.
夫妇俩发现，原来这是一套自1959年大楼建成以来，就原封未动的公寓。
“The kitchen was like a museum piece,” Mr. Toland said, but the apartment “had the most amazing light, and the location was perfect.”
“厨房就像博物馆里的老古董，”托兰说，但这套公寓“采光非常好，地理位置也很完美。”
It was listed for $510,000, well below the Ginsbergs’ target price. Maintenance was a bit more than $800 a month. They offered $530,000 and this time, were No. 1. The building’s financial requirements included a 25 percent down payment plus four years’ worth of maintenance payments in the bank.
这套房子的挂牌价为51万美元（约合人民币317万元），远低于金斯伯格夫妇的目标价格，每月需要支付的维护费是800多美元（约合人民币4967元）。他们这次给出的报价是53万美元（约合人民币329万元），排在了第一。这栋公寓楼对他们的资金要求包括占房款全价25%的首付，外加银行里要有一笔相当于四年物业费的存款。
“They say moving is one of the most stressful things you can do,” Mr. Ginsberg said. “It’s true. There is so much unknown, so much waiting and so much money at stake.”
“人们说搬家可能是最令人焦虑不安的事，”金斯伯格先生说，“这是真的。有太多的未知数，无尽的等待，还要动用那么多的钱。”
The couple spent a few months and $70,000 overhauling the interior, with the help of Sweeten.com, which matches owners with contractors. They added a counter with bar stools so guests can talk with Mr. Ginsberg while he cooks.
在Sweeten.com这家专为房主和装修承包商牵线搭桥的网站帮助下，这对夫妇花了数月时间及7万美元（约合人民币43.4万元），重新翻修了房子。他们添置了一个吧台和吧凳，这样，金斯伯格先生做菜的时候也能和客人聊天。
The couple’s arrival, a few weeks ago, was a letdown. “We were expecting this great moment, and it was almost lackluster,” Mrs. Ginsberg said. “There were still contractor tools and parts of the apartment we couldn’t touch. It felt like a construction zone.”
几周前，夫妇俩搬进了新房，略微有些失望。“我们本以为，这会是一个里程碑似的伟大时刻，但其实场面很平淡，”金斯伯格夫人说，“房间里还留了一些装修工具，部分地方我们还不能碰。感觉就像个建筑工地。”
But now, with the work complete, the two are thrilled with their home. They bought new furniture, excited and relieved to have dressers and night stands fit in the bedroom along with the bed.
而现在，工程全部完工了。面对他们的新家，两人都兴奋不已。他们买了新家具，欢天喜地、放心大胆地为卧室购置了梳妆台、床头柜和床。
Their ankle views gave way to something they never expected — a high floor “where we can watch the sunset,” Mr. Ginsberg said. In the daytime, it’s sometimes so bright they draw the shades. “We underestimated how much we would like a view and natural light,” he said.
他们完全没有想到，之前的“脚踝风景”会变成如此之棒的景致——高高的楼梯是“我们可以观赏落日的地方”，金斯伯格先生说。在白天，有时候光线太强烈了，以至于他们要放下窗帘。“我们没想到，原来我们是这么喜欢这样的视野，和自然光线，”他说。