ABOARD RESCUE FLIGHT 74, over the Indian Ocean — As the American Navy surveillance plane veered sharply back toward white objects floating in the ocean below, an automated voice warned, “Banking! Banking!” The console settings in the cockpit showed the plane at merely 500 feet above the sapphire seas glowing under unobstructed sunshine.
印度洋上空“救援74”飞机——这架美国海军侦察机突然调转方向，飞向海面漂浮的白色物体，伴随着自动的语音警告，“倾斜飞行！倾斜飞行！”驾驶舱里的控制台设置显示飞机距离海面只有500英尺（约合153米），蔚蓝的大海在阳光的直射下闪闪发光。
Lt. Cmdr. Clayton Hunt was at the controls of the P-8A Poseidon, the most advanced aircraft taking part in the multinational effort to find the wreckage of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
海军少校克莱顿·亨特(Clayton Hunt)负责控制这架P-8A海神(P-8A Poseidon)巡逻机，它是参与马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班残骸多国搜索行动的最先进飞机。
“The sea state has been awesome; visibility has been awesome,” Commander Hunt said during a search mission on Friday. “If it’s down there, we will find it.”
“海面状况非常不错，能见度也非常好，”亨特少校周五执行搜索任务时表示。“如果飞机确实坠毁在这里，我们会找到它的。”
The P-8A Poseidon, which the Navy began using two years ago, is brimming with electronic equipment: radar screens, sonar buoy launchers and a high-definition camera that protrudes from a turret under the fuselage and is directed by joystick from one of the five workstations in the cabin.
美国海军从两年前开始使用P-8A海神巡逻机，该巡逻机装有各种电子设备：雷达屏幕、声纳浮标发射器和一个高清摄像头，摄像头从飞机的炮塔下方探出，由机舱里一个工作台上的操纵杆控制，机舱里共有五个工作台。
The aircraft specializes in tracking and destroying submarines. Yet it is a measure of the limits of the state-of-the-art technology on board that in the search for Flight 370 the crew says it relies mainly on two petty officers sitting at rectangular windows on either side of the aircraft to spot signs of wreckage.
这种飞机擅长追踪并摧毁潜艇。然而，它配备的尖端技术存在一定程度的限制，机组人员表示，在搜索370航班的行动中，它主要得依靠坐在飞机两侧矩形窗口的两名海军军士来搜寻残骸的迹象。
“The human eye is the best way to search,” said Petty Officer Second Class Mike Burnett, one of the spotters, who sat on a swivel chair in front of a window.
坐在窗前转椅上的观察人员迈克·伯内特(Mike Burnett)中士说，“肉眼观察是最好的搜寻方法。”
Outside was a monotonous seascape that resembled a looping film reel of identical patches of ocean.
飞机外面是一片单调的海景，感觉就像在看一部重复同一海域景象的循环电影。
Crew members took turns staring into the hypnotic void, carefully scanning up and down, right and left, while keeping a finger on a button connected to their headsets that allows them to alert the crew to any sightings.
机组人员轮流盯着这片令人昏昏欲睡的空间，仔细地四下张望，同时还要把手指放在与耳机相连的一个按钮上，以便在有所发现时提醒其他机组人员。
From the main airport in Perth in Western Australia, Rescue Flight 74 reached the search zone in two hours on Friday afternoon and inspected 18,000 square nautical miles by flying back and forth like a 300-mile-per-hour lawn mower across an area assigned to the crew by the Australian authorities.
周五下午，“救援74”(Rescue Flight 74)飞机从澳大利亚西部城市珀斯的主要机场起飞，经两小时飞行到达搜索区域，来回搜索了1.8万平方海里的海面，就像一台时速为300英里（约合483公里）的割草机，穿行在澳大利亚当局为机组人员分配的区域。
The United States Navy allowed three reporters in the plane on Friday on the condition they not carry any electronic equipment. The cockpit door was open for the most of the flight, and the reporters were allowed to move freely in the aircraft, except for two occasions when the crew shielded them from seeing what were described as operations that might reveal the plane’s technological capabilities.
周五，美国海军允许三名记者随机参与行动，前提是不得携带任何电子设备。驾驶舱的门在飞行的大部分时间里一直开着，记者获准在飞机内部自由行动，其间只有两次例外，当时机组人员拦住了他们，不让他们看到所谓的可能泄露飞机技术能力的操作。
Rescue Flight 74 was one of 10 aircraft on Friday taking part in the search nearly three weeks after the Malaysian airliner went off course during a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing and vanished. No confirmed wreckage has been found from Flight 370. Experts are basing their calculations on where the plane went down on signals picked up by a satellite while the jetliner, a Boeing 777-200, was still in the air.
“救援74”飞机是参与周五搜索行动的10架飞机之一，截至周五，该马来西亚飞机已消失将近三周。之前它在从吉隆坡飞往北京的途中偏离航线，随后失踪。目前尚未发现得到确认的370航班残骸。专家们推测飞机坠海地点的依据是卫星收到的信号，收到信号之时，这架波音777-200飞机仍在飞行。
Friday was the first day that aircraft searched a newly defined search zone based on a new analysis of data, which concluded that the plane probably went down farther north than previously thought. This new search zone is in warmer waters about 1,000 miles west of Perth, 500 miles closer to the Australian mainland than the previous zone, giving the aircraft more time to scour the area.
新的数据分析表明，飞机可能坠落在了更靠北的区域，与人们先前的想法不同。有关方面据此确定了新的搜索区域，周五是飞机对这个新区域进行搜索的第一天。新的搜索区位于较为温暖的水域，东距珀斯约1000英里；与此前的搜索区相比，新的搜索区离澳大利亚大陆近了500英里，飞机可以把更多的时间用于搜索。
Fueled by junk food and soft drinks on the eight-and-a-half-hour mission, the crew of Rescue Flight 74 spotted only what appeared to be unrelated flotsam: a white ball, orange rope and blue-green plastic.
在长达八个半小时的任务期间，“救援74”飞机的机组成员只能以垃圾食品和软饮果腹。他们发现的似乎只是一些不相干的漂浮物：一只白色的球、橙色的绳子和蓝绿色的塑料制品。
On its seven sorties off the Australian coast, the crew has been repeatedly diverted by false leads. The plane has spotted at least one whale and many clumps of seaweed.
这是这架飞机第七次从澳大利亚海岸出发执行任务，机组成员曾多次被错误线索误导。之前，这架飞机发现了至少一头鲸鱼和许多海草。
Petty Officer Chris Walsh, a radar specialist who sits at one of the consoles in the cabin, has earned the nickname dolphin hunter because at least six times he has directed the plane to what appeared to be debris but turned out to be a pod of dolphins.
雷达专家、海军士官克里斯·沃尔什(Chris Walsh)坐在机舱里的一个控制台前，人们给他起了个“海豚猎人”的绰号，因为他至少六次命令飞机飞向疑似残骸所在的地方，找到的却都是一群海豚。
The radar specialist is now referred to as “a marine mammal specialist,” Commander Hunt said. It was a rare moment of levity. As the plane flew low over the search zone, a studied silence descended.
亨特少校说，现在人们都把这位雷达专家称为“海洋哺乳动物专家”。这是难得的轻松时刻。当飞机低空飞越搜索区的时候，严肃的沉默随之降临。
The Australian military has provided the search teams with a very generic list of items to watch for: “debris, distress beacon, fire, flares, life jackets, life raft/dinghy, marker dye, mirror signals, movements, oil slick, person in water, smoke, wreckage.”
澳大利亚军方给搜索队提供了一份非常宽泛的搜索清单：“残片、求救信标、火、闪光、救生衣、救生筏/艇、海水染色剂、反光信号、移动迹象、水面浮油、水里的人、烟雾和残骸。”
There is relatively little commercial shipping in the seas directly west of Perth, and the crew members described the waters they have searched over the past two weeks as unusually pristine and devoid of trash — and altogether very empty.
相对而言，珀斯正西方向的海域很少有商船往来。机组人员说，他们过去两周搜索的水域格外原始，几乎没有任何垃圾，总体说来就是一片空旷。
After sunset Friday the plane continued the last leg of its search, still flying under 1,000 feet. Two spotters stared out into the dark gray outlines of the ocean as operators activated an infrared camera.
周五日落以后，飞机继续进行最后一程搜索工作，飞行高度仍旧低于1000英尺。两名观察人员盯着大洋的深灰色轮廓，操作人员则打开了红外摄像机。
The crew was nearing the end of another painstaking, methodical but fruitless day.
又一个艰难、有序却毫无收获的日子即将过去。