Yuyang Liu, who documented the lives of the severely mentally ill and their families in China, has won the Ian Parry scholarship that recognizes young photographers at the beginning of their career. The award is named for the Sunday Times photographer who died at the age of 24 in a 1989 plane explosion while covering the Romanian revolution.
因为记录中国精神病重度患者及其家属的生活，刘禹扬获得了伊恩·派瑞摄影奖学金。该奖学金用于表彰事业处于起步期的年轻摄影师，以《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)已故摄影师伊恩·派瑞(Ian Parry)命名。1989年，在进行有关罗马尼亚革命的报道时，派瑞死于飞机爆炸，年仅24岁。
Mr. Liu, 23, said he was drawn to the project, in Guangdong Province because the mentally ill and their families are often overlooked, if not completely ignored. “This is a group of people who are invisible in normal society,” Mr. Liu said in a phone interview Tuesday. “We can’t see them in schools or workplaces, and we don’t see their families.”
现年23岁的刘禹扬表示，自己是在广东对这个摄影专题产生兴趣的，因为精神病患者和他们的家人往往不是遭到完全无视，就是被人置之不理。“这个群体隐没在了正常的社会里，”刘禹扬周二接受电话访问时说。“在学校或者工作场所，我们既看不到他们，也看不到他们的家人。”
He focused on family relationships because he felt there were already too many pictures of the mentally ill enduring deplorable conditions. “It’s more important to show the viewers the love I saw as most families struggle to take care of their loved ones under difficult circumstances,” he said. Although most of the families he documented had good relationships with their mentally ill relatives and were struggling to care for them, it was also necessary, he said, to show the other side because “whether it’s good or bad, it’s important to record the truth.”
因为感到有关精神病患者遭受不幸的照片已经很多，所以刘禹扬就把精力放在了他们的家庭关系上。他说，“当大多数家庭挣扎着照顾身处困境的至亲时，我看到了他们之间的爱，而向观众展示出这种爱才是更为重要的。”在他记录下来的家人中，大多和患有精神病的亲属关系融洽，并且努力地照料他们。不过他表示，展现出事情的另外一面也很有必要，因为“不论好坏，记录下真实才是重要的。”
Mr. Liu was born in Sichuan Province and now is a freelancer in Chengdu. He was a Magnum Foundation Human Rights Scholar last year and spent the summer in New York studying with Susan Meiselas and Fred Ritchin. Before that, he had never taken a photo class.
刘禹扬出生在四川，如今在成都从事自由职业。去年，他获选玛格南基金会(Magnum Foundation)的人权学者，花了一个夏天待在纽约，向苏珊·梅塞拉斯(Susan Meiselas)和弗雷德·里钦(Fred Ritchin)学习摄影。在那之前，他从未上过一堂摄影课。
Earlier this year, he published some photos on China’s Tencent news and photo website and raised money to help the families he photographed.
今年早些时候，他在中国的新闻和摄影网站腾讯上刊登了一些照片，为自己镜头中的家庭筹集资金。
The scholarship brings with it a cash award of £3,500 (about $5,400) and camera equipment from Canon. Mr. Liu will also be published in The Sunday Times along with the award finalists, who included Hosam Katan of Aleppo, Syria, who was “highly commended” by the jury for his photographs of the civil war in his country. Other finalists were Isadora Kosofsky, Hashem Shakeri and Salahuddin Ahmed. When Mr. Liu received news of his award in a phone call from Aidan Sullivan, the director of the scholarship, he was so overwhelmed that he couldn’t speak. The award, he said, meant that more people would see his work and that he would be able to help “more and more of the mentally ill.”
伊恩·派瑞奖学金有3500英镑（约合3.4万元人民币）的现金奖励，同时还赠与佳能摄影设备。 刘禹扬将会和其他入围者一同在《星期日泰晤士报》上发表作品。他们包括伊莎杜拉· 科索夫斯基(Isadora Kosofsky)、哈希姆·沙克里(Hashem Shakeri)、萨拉赫丁·艾哈迈德(Salahuddin Ahmed)，以及来自叙利亚阿勒颇的奥萨姆·卡坦(Hosam Katan)。凭借自己拍摄的叙利亚内战的作品，卡坦获得了评审团的“高度推荐”。当奖学金负责人艾丹·沙利文(Aidan Sullivan)打电话告知获奖消息时，刘禹扬激动得说不出话来。他表示，这一奖项意味着会有更多的人看到自己的作品，他也能够帮助“越来越多的精神病患者”。
There is a shortage of medical care for the mentally ill in China and not enough support for families, who often become impoverished by the burden of full-time care for their loved ones, he said. In the next phase of the project he will photograph in different regions throughout China, hoping to get the government to give more attention — and resources — to the issue.
刘禹扬称，中国的精神病患者缺少医疗护理，而他们的家人也没有得到足够的支持，常常因为要全天候照顾亲人而陷入贫困。在该专题的下一个阶段，他将会到中国的不同地区进行拍摄，希望在这方面得到政府更多的关注和资源。
Mr. Liu is planning outdoor exhibits and other forms of activism to bring attention to the severely mentally ill. He is even considering coming up with a Chinese version of the A.L.S. ice bucket challenge, hoping it too will go viral on social media.
刘禹扬目前正在筹划户外展出和其他一些形式的行动，从而让更多人关注深受精神疾病困扰的人。他甚至考虑在中国发起一个类似肌萎缩性脊髓侧索硬化症冰桶挑战的活动，希望同样能够在社交媒体上迅速传开。
“Whatever works,” he said. “I can help one or two or three people by myself, but I can’t help one million.”
“怎么样都行，”他说。“我自己可以帮助一两个、两三个人，但是没办法帮助一百万人。”