MOSCOW — “It was just a usual business trip for him,” Alina Zhiganova said, describing how her husband, the photographer Denis Sinyakov, set out in September to document Greenpeace International’s voyage to protest oil exploration in the fragile environment of the Arctic Ocean. He delayed his departure to be present for the third birthday of their son, Vasily, and planned to return in time for his own birthday on Oct. 16. They planned to celebrate it in Paris.
莫斯科——“这对他来说本是一次正常出差，”阿林娜·日加诺娃(Alina Zhiganova)在提到身为摄影师的丈夫丹尼斯·西尼亚科夫(Denis Sinyakov)时说。西尼亚科夫于9月动身前往北冰洋记录绿色和平(Greenpeace)组织抗议在这个脆弱环境中进行石油勘探的过程。为了给儿子瓦西里(Vasily)庆祝三岁生日，他推迟了出发日期，并且计划在10月16日自己的生日之前返回。他们打算去巴黎进行庆祝。
Mr. Sinyakov instead spent his 36th birthday in a detention center in the far northern city of Murmansk. He and 29 crew members and activists now face criminal charges after Greenpeace’s ship, the Arctic Sunrise, mounted a high-seas operation to hoist a banner on the first offshore oil platform — of many to come — that Russia has erected in the Arctic.
然而，西尼亚科夫却在遥远的北部城市摩尔曼斯克的一个拘留中心度过了自己的36岁生日。由于绿色和平的船只“极地曙光号”(Arctic Sunrise)在海上发起行动，想在俄罗斯设立于北极的首个近海石油钻井平台（将来还会有更多）上拉开横幅表示抗议，他和29名船上人员及活动分子目前都面临刑事指控。
“I thought the danger for him was always that something could happen to him — that he could lose an arm or a leg or something,” Ms. Zhiganova said in a cafe in Vidnoye, a small southern suburb of Moscow where they live. She recalled previous assignments that took him to wars in Lebanon and Georgia and with the Americans in Afghanistan, where in 2011 he embedded with a medevac regiment of the 101st Combat Aviation Brigade.
“我本以为，对他而言，危险就在于他可能会发生一些事情——他可能会断胳膊断腿，”日加诺娃在莫斯科南郊维德诺耶的一个咖啡厅里说，他们就住在这附近。她说，他之前曾被安排到黎巴嫩和格鲁吉亚去做战地记者，还与美国人一起去过阿富汗——2011年，他跟随101空降师(101st Combat Aviation Brigade)的一个急救直升机团去了那里。
“My worries about his work were only that he stayed alive,” she said. “It never crossed my mind that they might put a journalist in jail.”
“我希望他保住性命，这是我担心的地方，”她说。“但我从没想过他们会把一名记者关进监狱。”
That he was a photojournalist who previously worked for Reuters and Agence France-Presse — his photographs appearing in publications around the world — appears to have mattered little to the Russian authorities in this case. Russia’s Investigative Committee has responded to the protest with an aggressive prosecution against all those aboard that is almost certainly intended to serve as a warning against future protests in a warming region that President Vladimir V. Putin has declared a strategic political, military and economic priority. This week Mr. Sinyakov’s lawyer appealed to the court to bring charges against security officials for depriving him of his right to work as a journalist, even as the editor website Lenta.ru provided a letter saying he was accredited with the news agency.
在这个案子里，他曾为路透社(Reuters)和法新社(Agence France-Presse)拍摄照片的经历——他拍摄的照片会出现在世界各地的出版物上——对于俄罗斯官方而言，似乎没有太大关系。作为对抗议活动的回应，俄国联邦调查委员会(Investigative Committee)对船上所有的人都提出了严厉指控。几乎可以确定，这样做是为了对将来的抗议活动发出警告。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)曾宣布，这个逐渐变暖的地区是一个具有战略意义的地区，在政治、军事和经济方面极具重要性。本周，西尼亚科夫的律师向法院提出指控，说安全官员剥夺了西尼亚科夫作为记者的权利，而且网站Lenta.ru还发信表示西尼亚科夫是在为这个通讯社工作。
Russia can be a hostile place for journalists, especially those attracted to the most compelling issues of the day, which of late have been the simmering tensions between Mr. Putin’s government and those seeking greater political freedoms. Mr. Sinyakov’s work often focused on Russia’s oppositionists — from the still-free members of the punk performers Pussy Riot to the bare-chested guerrilla protesters known as Femen, the retrial of the tycoon Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky in 2010 to the protests against election fraud and Mr. Putin’s return as president in 2012. In the view of the authorities here, there is often little distinction between those covering dissent and those participating in it.
对于记者而言，俄罗斯可以是个充满敌意的地方，尤其是那些对当今最受关注的问题感兴趣的人。而这些问题就是普京政府和那些寻求更大政治自由者之间的矛盾。西尼亚科夫的作品关注的往往是俄罗斯的反对派——从尚未被监禁的朋克乐队Pussy Riot的成员，到赤裸上身的抗议组织Femen的成员、2010年商业大亨米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)的复审，再到针对选举欺诈以及2012年普京总统的重新当选的抗议活动。在俄罗斯官方眼中，报道异见人士和参与异见活动之间通常没有太大区别。
Mr. Sinyakov himself blurred the line. He left Reuters in 2012 to pursue independent projects, one of the first being Greenpeace’s similar protest at the same oil rig, located in the Pechora Sea near the island Novaya Zemlya. On his website, he titled the project “Offshore Warriors,” and echoed Greenpeace’s warnings that drilling in the Arctic could prove to be an environmental disaster for which the company that operates the rig, Gazprom, is woefully prepared.
西尼亚科夫自己也模糊了这条界线。2012年，他离开路透社开展一些独立项目，第一批项目中便包括绿色和平在同一个石油钻塔上举行的类似抗议。这个石油钻塔位于新地岛(Novaya Zemlya)附近的伯朝拉海。西尼亚科夫在自己的网站上，把这个项目命名为“近海战士”(Offshore Warriors)，并对绿色和平的警告表示赞同。绿色和平称，在北极进行钻探会带来环境灾难，而运营这个钻塔的公司将无力应对这种情况。
Ms. Zhiganova said he had become deeply interested in the Arctic — including the indigenous Nenets of Russia’s northern Yamal Peninsula, whom he photographed for Reuters in 2011 — and had traveled there not only with Greenpeace but also with Gazprom’s oil subsidiary as recently as June. “There are two ways to get to the Arctic: you either go with Greenpeace or you go with Gazprom Neft,” she said.
日加诺娃说，西尼亚科夫逐渐变得对北极非常感兴趣——其中还包括位于俄罗斯北部的亚马尔半岛的原住民涅涅茨人，他2011曾为路透社拍摄过这些原住民——他不仅与绿色和平一起去过北极，而且今年6月还与俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)生产石油的子公司一起去过那里。她说，“去北极有两种方式：要么与绿色和平一起去，要么与俄罗斯天然气公司一起去。”
In a letter posted on his website after his arrest, Mr. Sinyakov made it clear his convictions rested with Greenpeace, whose activists he described as “orders of magnitude more moral, more honest and brighter than our accusers.”
被捕之后，西尼亚科夫在发布在自己网站上的一封信中清楚地表示，他的定罪将取决于绿色和平。他宣称绿色和平的活动人士是“一群远比我们的指控者道德水准更高、更诚实、更聪明的人”。
The fate of the Arctic Sunrise’s crew remains unclear. After initially charging them with piracy, prosecutors reduced the charges to hooliganism, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years in prison. Mr. Sinyakov and the others have been ordered held until at least Nov. 24, although the period of detention can be extended as long as 18 months while defendants await trial.
“极地曙光”船员的命运如今尚不明确。他们刚开始被指控犯了海盗罪，随后公诉人又将指控减轻为流氓行为，该罪行最高可被判处7年有期徒刑。根据命令，西尼亚科夫和其他人至少将被拘禁到11月24日，在等待审判期间，被告人的拘禁期可被延长至长达18个月。
In the letter Mr. Sinyakov describes the seizure of the ship — one of the crew wrote in chalk on the deck, “Russian soldiers welcome onboard” — and the conditions of his cell, which he shares with two other Russian prisoners.
西尼亚科夫在信中讲述了船只被扣的过程——其中一名船员用粉笔在甲板上写了“欢迎俄罗斯士兵”——和监狱里的情况，他与另外两名俄罗斯囚犯被关在一起。
Like the others, he spends 23 hours a day there, allowed out only for an hour of exercise, court appearances, meetings with his lawyers and one last week with his wife. They spoke by telephone through a glass barrier, with a guard listening in. “When we saw each other, we put our hands up against the window and held them there until the glass became warm on both sides,” Ms. Zhiganova said. “We could only feel each other’s warmth like that, putting our hands up against the glass and holding there, because it was very cold.”
与其他人一样，他每天要在牢房里度过23小时，只有一小时用来锻炼、出庭、会见律师，上周他还与妻子共度了一个小时。他们隔着玻璃挡板通过电话进行交谈，旁边还有一名守卫在旁听。“当我们见到彼此的时候，我们把手贴在玻璃窗上，一直举着，直到两边的玻璃都被捂热，”日加诺娃说。“我们只能这样感受彼此的温度，把手贴在玻璃上，举在那里，因为当时非常冷。”
His cameras and computers have been confiscated as part of the investigation. Mr. Sinyakov wrote that he occupies his time drawing and reading, including a copy of the Criminal Code — “It’s a joy to read, but the only pity is nobody uses it,” he said — and, according to his wife, the famous novel depicting a man’s fate behind bars here, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn’s “One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.”
作为调查的一部分，他的相机和电脑都被没收了。西尼亚科夫写道，他用画画和阅读来打发时间，他的阅读内容还包括一本《刑法》(Criminal Code)——“它读起来很有意思，唯一可惜的是没人去用它，”他说。他的妻子说，他还会阅读亚历山大·索尔仁尼琴(Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn)的名著《伊凡·杰尼索维奇的一天》(One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich)，这部小说讲述了一名男性俄罗斯囚犯的命运。