There’s a lot of status anxiety going about these days. People live suspended between the anxiety of being deluged in communication and the agony of receiving none. They have always wanted to be liked, but now they must also be “liked.” They exist under the digital pressure of reciprocal judgment, a state that knows no repose. They are either on top of things, a momentary illusion, or overwhelmed, a permanent state intermittently denied. They look around wondering how it is possible to keep up. They have access to everything and certainty about nothing. They zigzag between indulgence and denial, frenetic states and cleansing cures, their busy selves and their better selves. They have nightmares about getting a thumbs-down. They ask themselves how the Day of Judgment became day-in, day-out judgment. They make resolutions that unravel. They amass to-do lists that cannot get done. They are not sure where they stand on the ratings scales, on the lists that proliferate, on the global grading of everything and everyone.
现如今，有关地位状态的焦虑无处不在。一边是深陷于大量通讯信息引发的焦虑，另一边是无人联络自己带来的痛苦，把人悬在中间左右为难。人们从来都渴望赞许，但如今还必须让人“点赞”。他们活在数码世界里相互评判的压力之下，而这种状态永不停歇。他们不是一切尽在掌控，就是被压得喘不过气来。前者是暂时的幻象，后者则是偶有中断的常态。他们环顾四周，不明白怎么可能跟上这样的世界。万物触手可及，却凡事皆无把握。他们在沉迷与抗拒之间彷徨，在癫狂与荡涤之间徘徊，在忙得不可开交的自我与更明智的自我之间拉锯。他们会生发被人大拇指朝下地“踩”了的噩梦。他们扪心自问，最后的审判日怎么会变成日复一日的审判。他们下的决心烟消云散；他们列出的事项从未完成。在诸多评定量表中，在无穷无尽的榜单里，在关于每个人每件事的全球分级系统中，他们不清楚自己处在哪个位置。
This state crept up on them. How such unease came about, who willed it and with what design, was not quite clear, but it must, they thought, have something to do with what is called progress. Where it was headed was equally murky but sometimes the destination looked unappealing, a place where peace had been crowded out by the pursuit of efficiencies.
这样的状态悄然俘虏了他们。这种不安从何而来，出自谁人的意愿，又带有怎样的意图？并没有明确的答案，但他们不禁要想，那个名为“进步”的东西肯定脱不了干系。它究竟通往何处同样说不清道不明，但它的终点有时看起来并不迷人。在那里，平静遭到了排挤，取而代之的是对效率的追求。
Airports became strange places. They came to sound like jewelry stores. After the Sapphire members boarded came the Ruby members and then the Diamond folk followed by the Platinum people and the Emerald eminences with the Gold guys trailing after them; and of course there were also the Silver members and the Bronze hangers-on and some Topaz and Amethyst and Turquoise people and maybe a Garnet qualifier here and there; and of course before they boarded they had the heady status-bearing privilege of being “fast-tracked” through security, the “reward” for having endured the hell of air travel so often.
机场已成为古怪的地方，好像变作了珠宝店。蓝宝石卡会员优先登机，然后是红宝石卡会员，接下来依次为钻石卡会员、铂金卡会员、绿宝石卡会员、金卡会员；当然后面跟着的是银卡会员、铜卡会员，加上些托帕石卡会员、紫晶卡会员和绿松石卡会员，说不定还有石榴石卡预备会员。当然了，登机之前，他们还拥有这些身份带来的让人沾沾自喜的安检“快速通道”权，用以“奖励”他们频繁地去空中旅行的炼狱里走一遭。
Left behind in this scramble for privilege were the riffraff, the strugglers, who sat and smiled at their fate, particularly as they now tended to proceed through security faster and board more serenely as a result of the immense, often huffy scramble of the mutually scrutinizing privileged with cards and luggage tags and other iconic symbols (in dress and purses and luggage etc.) establishing their status.
在赢取特权的竞争中落在后面的是那些芸芸众生，一帮在下层打拼的人。他们却坐在那里，对自己的境遇付之一笑，尤其是，如今他们常常过安检时更快、登机时更清静。这是因为，那些用会员卡、行李牌和其他标识（比如衣着、背包和行李箱等）来确立身份的特权人士忙着相互审视，展开了激烈的争抢，往往还争得脸红脖子粗。
This odd inversion of things could sometimes cause a ruckus. The privileged found it intolerable that the great unwashed were having an easier time than they. How, they demanded angrily, could it be that these “ordinary human beings” — they actually used the phrase — were receiving better treatment and seemed calmer, lounging around reading books and scarcely, it seemed, paying much attention to the boarding process?
这种奇特的逆转有时会引发骚动。下等人居然比自己还要舒坦，特权人士实在是忍无可忍。他们忿忿不平，这帮“普通人类”——这的确是他们使用的称呼——怎么会享受了更好的待遇，而且看起来更加平和，闲逛啊，看书啊，好像就不怎么在意登机过程？
Sometimes, in an access of madness, they jumped over the barriers from the “fast-track” lanes and stormed the shorter, regular security lines, pushing and shoving the losers out of the way, brandishing their gold and ruby and emerald-colored cards, talking about their “rights” and their hard-earned status, occasionally wondering at the equanimity with which the nonachievers (presumably) reacted to being pushed to the ground and trampled upon. In one scene of particular horror, offended Platinum, Emerald, Ruby and other status-laden folk ran amok with their brand-named luggage, storming helter-skelter between “fast-track” and ordinary track, seemingly unable to establish which was moving faster, tormented by the thought that they might somehow be losing out or suffering some unwarranted indignity.
有那么一些时候，他们会冲昏头脑，跳过隔开“快速通道”的障碍物，闯入普通安检通道那条更短的队伍，把挡在前面的失败者推挤开。他们挥舞着手中花花绿绿的卡片，嘴上冒出关于自己的“权利”和辛苦挣来的身份地位的说辞，不时还会惊诧，这帮（想来）一事无成的人被挤到地上还挨上了一脚，怎么还能那么镇定。有一次尤其可怕，有头有脸的持卡会员们怒火冲天，带着他们的名牌行李箱在“快速通道”和普通通道之间窜来窜去，似乎没法打定主意究竟哪边的队伍移动得更快。想到也许会错过特权，或是蒙受某种不合理的羞辱，他们备受煎熬。
This wild behavior of the “lounge louts” (somebody coined the phrase) seemed to reflect the immense strain of having a lot, of accumulating, of follower-envy and friend-envy, of competing in every act and gesture. Or so the social psychologists and other observers suggested. They postulated that unease was accentuated, rather than allayed, by certain forms of material success, and that status, once gained, could become an obsession — its loss the specter stalking every waking hour. After all, they noted, the airport conduct was illogical. In the end it does not matter how fast you board the plane.
“贵宾室莽夫”（有人想出了这么个词）的疯狂之举，似乎映照出了巨大的压力。这些压力来自拥有太多、不断的积累、那种针对他人拥有的关注者和友人数量的艳羡，以及在方方面面的你争我夺。至少社会心理学家之类的观察人士是这样认为的。他们推断，一定程度的物质成功会增加而非减少这种焦虑，而一旦获得身份地位，就可能变成一种痴迷——人一睁眼，就甩不掉唯恐失去地位的可怕思维。他们指出，人们在机场的这类表现其实并不符合逻辑。登机快慢到头来根本无关紧要。
By comparison, having little or less seemed relatively straightforward — and could even spur illogical acts of an entirely different nature, such as going out and working for a couple of hours on repairing somebody’s car and then refusing payment, or giving time in other ways that defy measurement on the scales that hold sway over contemporary lives. There was a great deal to be said for acts of spontaneous generosity, for surprise visits, for being sidetracked, for idle conversation, for the gestures that forge community.
相比之下，拥有较少或没有几样身外之物的人反而显得更直接——甚至可能激发出性质截然不同的不符逻辑的行为，比如出去帮人修上几小时的车却不要回报，或是在其他方面违反主宰当代生活的那杆标尺，奉献出自己的时间。这在很大程度上可以解释不经意的慷慨之举、突然的造访、注意力的转移、闲散的对话，以及行成社区氛围的种种姿态。
The Chinese say: “If you want to be happy for a day, get drunk; a week, kill a pig; a month, get married; for life, be a gardener.” Cultivate your garden, the inner as the outer. Make it bloom. Have petals of every color and airline cards of none.
中国人说：“喝酒乐一日，杀猪乐一周，新婚乐一月，耕作乐一生。”培育你内心与外界的园子，令它绽放出花朵。寻找那样的一片姹紫嫣红，远离航空公司会员卡的花花绿绿。