Chester Bennington, the ferocious lead singer for the platinum-selling hard rock band Linkin Park, has died. He was 41.
白金销量硬摇滚乐队林肯公园(Linkin Park)激情的主唱查斯特·本宁顿(Chester Bennington)去世，享年41岁。
Brian Elias, chief of operations for the Los Angeles County coroner’s office, confirmed the death and said it was being investigated as a possible suicide. Elias said that law enforcement authorities responded to a call on Thursday shortly after 9 a.m. Pacific Time and were investigating a death in Palos Verdes Estates in Los Angeles County.
洛杉矶县验尸官办公室主任布莱恩·埃利亚斯(Brian Elias)证实了他的死亡消息，表示正在对此案以可能的自杀案件进行调查。埃利亚斯说，执法部门在太平洋时间周四晚上9点多一点接到报案电话后，前往洛杉矶县帕洛斯弗迪斯庄园市(Palos Verdes Estates)调查这起死亡事件。
Bennington, who was known for his piercing scream and free-flowing anguish, released seven albums with Linkin Park. The band’s most recent record, “One More Light” arrived in May and debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard album chart. The band was scheduled to start a tour with a concert on July 27 in Mansfield, Massachusetts.
本宁顿以穿透性的尖叫和畅快表达痛苦情绪而闻名，他和林肯公园的成员发行了七张专辑。今年5月，该乐队新专辑《再多一点光》(One More Light)甫一发行，就成为公告牌专辑榜的冠军。该乐队还计划7月27日在马萨诸塞州曼斯菲尔德举行演唱会。
Mike Shinoda, one of Linkin Park’s founders, spoke on behalf of the group in a tweet. “Shocked and heartbroken,” he wrote, adding that the band will be issuing a statement.
林肯公园组建者之一的麦克·篠田(Mike Shinoda)代表乐队在推特上发言，称感到“震惊和伤心”，还说该乐队将发表一份声明。
Bennington also performed in the side project Dead by Sunrise and joined Stone Temple Pilots as its lead singer after the band split with vocalist Scott Weiland in 2013.
本宁顿曾在一个分支乐队“黑暗曙光”(Dead by Sunrise)表演过。2013年，“石庙向导”(Stone Temple Pilots)乐队的歌手斯科特·魏兰德(Scott Weiland)离开后，他又成为该乐队的主唱。
In May, he responded to the suicide by hanging of his friend singer Chris Cornell in a note he shared on social media. “I can’t imagine a world without you in it,” he wrote. “I pray you find peace in the next life.” (Bennington also performed Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah” at the funeral; Cornell would have turned 53 Thursday.)
今年5月，他的朋友、歌手克里斯·康奈尔(Chris Cornell)上吊自杀后，他在社交媒体上写了一段话。“我无法想像没有你的世界，”他写道。“我祈祷你在来生中找到安宁。”（本宁顿还在葬礼上表演了伦纳德·科恩[Leonard Cohen]的《哈利路亚》[Hallelujah]，本周四是康奈尔53岁冥寿。）
A week later, he posted a series of positive tweets. In one, he shared a photo of his daughter graduating from the University of San Diego. In another, he wrote about being artistically inspired: “Feeling very creative this last week. I’ve written 6 songs and I’m happy with all of them. Just getting started.” He added the emoji for the devil-horns hand gesture.
一周后，他发表了一系列正能量的推文，其中一条贴出了女儿从圣地亚哥大学(University of San Diego)毕业的照片，另外一条中，他谈到自己的艺术灵感：“上周我感到思如泉涌，写了六首歌，觉得每一首都很好。这只是个开头。”他还加上了一个魔鬼角手势的表情符。
But Bennington had also been open about his struggles with the drug and alcohol addiction that had fueled many of his biggest hits with Linkin Park.
但是，本宁顿也自曝与毒瘾和酒瘾作斗争，林肯公园的很多大热作品就是在这种斗争的激发下创作出来的。
“I have been able to tap into all the negative things that can happen to me throughout my life by numbing myself to the pain, so to speak, and kind of being able to vent it through my music,” he said in a 2009 interview with Noisecreep. “I don’t have a problem with people knowing that I had a drinking problem. That’s who I am and I’m kind of lucky in a lot of ways cause I get to do something about it.”
“可以说，通过让我自己感到痛苦，通过我的音乐发泄出来，我利用了我生活中可能发生的一切消极事情，”他在2009年接受音乐网站Noisecreep的采访时说。“我不介意大家知道我有酒瘾。这就是真正的我，从很多方面来说我都算幸运，因为我必须对此做点什么。”
Chester Charles Bennington was born on March 20, 1976, in Phoenix, Arizona, the youngest of four children. His mother was a nurse and his father a local police detective prone to pulling double-shifts; the singer has described his childhood as an unhappy one, citing his parents’ divorce when he was 11 and frequent molestation by an older friend, beginning when Bennington was “about 7 or 8” and continuing until he was 13. “It destroyed my self-confidence,” he told Kerrang! magazine of the abuse in 2008. “Like most people, I was too afraid to say anything. I didn’t want people to think I was gay or that I was lying. It was a horrible experience.”
切斯特·查尔斯·本宁顿1976年3月20日生于亚利桑那州凤凰城，是四个孩子中最小的一个。他的母亲是护士，父亲是当地警局的侦探，工作起来经常连轴转。据本宁顿自述，他的童年过得很不愉快，他11岁那年，父母离婚了，而且“大约从七八岁开始”，他经常被一个年长的朋友性骚扰，这种事情持续到13岁。“这破坏了我的自信，”2008年时他告诉《Kerrang!》杂志这件事时说。“就像大多数人一样，我太害怕把这事讲出来了。我不想让人觉得我是同性恋或者我在说谎。那段经历很可怕。”
Bennington married Talinda Bentley, a schoolteacher and former model, in 2006.
2006年，本宁顿和泰琳达·班特利结婚(Talinda Bentley)。她是一名教师，曾当过模特。
In addition to his wife, Bennington is survived by six children.
本宁顿留下了妻子和六个孩子。