At a museum on Fifth Avenue, in a sparkling reception hall overlooking Central Park, Jamie Dimon convened his top executives and their spouses last month for the Wall Street equivalent of a pep rally.
上个月，第五大道的一座博物馆里，俯瞰着中央公园的接待大厅内灯火通明，杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)将他所有的高管及其他们的伴侣召集到一起，进行了一场华尔街版的赛前动员大会。
“I’m proud of the company,” Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said at the Motown-themed party, held at the Museum of the City of New York, a mansion with a marble staircase and French doors, according to people who attended. “We will get through all of this,” Mr. Dimon said, referring to the legal and regulatory woes dogging the nation’s biggest bank.
据参加聚会的人称，摩根大通首席执行官戴蒙在那个以汽车城为主题的聚会上说，“我以这个公司为骄傲。”聚会在纽约市博物馆(Museum of the City of New York)举行，是一栋有着大理石楼梯和法式玻璃门的建筑。“所有这一切我们都会挺过去的，”戴蒙说，他指的是持续困扰这个国家最大银行的法律和监管问题。
The next week, Mr. Dimon aimed to put one of those woes behind him.
接下来的一周，戴蒙决定将其中一个问题解决掉，抛之脑后。
On Sept. 24, four hours before the Justice Department was planning to hold a press conference to announce civil charges against the bank over its sale of troubled mortgage investments, Mr. Dimon personally called one of Attorney General Eric Holder’s top lieutenants to reopen settlement talks, people briefed on the talks said. The rare outreach from a Wall Street C.E.O. scuttled the press conference and set in motion weeks of negotiations that have now culminated in a tentative $13 billion deal, according to the people briefed on the talks.
9月24日，司法部本计划举行新闻发布会，宣布针对摩根大通出售不良抵押贷款投资提起民事诉讼。据了解内情的人称，在发布会开始四个小时前，戴蒙私下给司法部长埃里克·霍尔德(Eric Holder)的一位高级助手打了电话，要求重启和解对话。这样的主动接触对一个华尔街CEO是颇为罕见的，令新闻发布会未能如期进行，并启动了持续数周的谈判，据了解相关会谈的人称，现在谈判终于促成了一项价值130亿美元的临时性协议。
An account of the negotiations, based on interviews with the people briefed on the talks, pulls back a curtain on the private wrangling to illuminate how the bank and the government managed to negotiate what would be a record deal. It also sheds new light on the hands-on-role that Mr. Dimon and Mr. Holder played in the talks. And it highlights how Mr. Dimon has so far maintained the support of the bank’s board when other Wall Street chiefs were derailed by the financial crisis.
经过对知情人的采访，这场私下里进行的争吵细节渐渐显现，让人们可以更清楚地了解摩根大通和政府如何通过协商达成一项将具有历史性意义的协议。而且它还让人进一步了解戴蒙和霍尔德在对话中所扮演的积极角色。从此事可以看出，当其他华尔街领导人因为金融危机而步履艰难之际，为什么唯独戴蒙能始终得到银行董事会的支持。
Much of the deal came down to dollars and cents. Mr. Dimon, the people said, signaled during that Sept. 24 call that he was willing to increase JPMorgan’s offer to settle an array of state and federal investigations into the bank’s sale of troubled mortgage securities before the financial crisis. The government, these people said, had already balked at the bank’s two initial offers: $1 billion and $3 billion.
协议很大程度上还是钱多钱少的问题。上述知情人士称，戴蒙在9月24日的电话中表示，他愿意提高摩根大通能够给出的金钱数额，以此解决一系列州及联邦政府对该银行在金融危机前所进行的不良抵押贷款债券交易展开的调查，此前政府已经拒绝了摩根大通开出过的两个数目：分别是10亿美元和30亿美元。
And so that same week, Mr. Dimon traveled to the Justice Department in Washington for a meeting with Mr. Holder that underscored how expensive the healing process had become. At the meeting, the people briefed on the talks said, Mr. Dimon raised the offer to $11 billion, $4 billion of which would serve as relief to struggling homeowners.
还是在那一周里，戴蒙前往位于华盛顿的司法部和霍尔德会面，该会晤也突显出这个疗伤过程已变得多么昂贵。据了解此次会面的人称，戴蒙当时将和解金额提高至110亿美元，其中的40亿美元将作为补偿分发给陷入困境的房屋所有者。
But Mr. Holder wanted more money to resolve the civil cases, the people briefed on the talks said. And despite the bank’s requests, he refused to provide JPMorgan a so-called nonprosecution agreement that would halt an investigation from prosecutors in California, who were scrutinizing the bank’s mortgage securities. Instead, the people said, he informed Mr. Dimon that the Justice Department wanted JPMorgan to plead guilty to a criminal charge in that case, an unusual show of force against a Wall Street bank.
但据知晓相关对话的人表示，霍尔德想要更多的钱来化解民事诉讼。他无视摩根大通的要求，拒绝向其提供一个所谓的不起诉协议，该协议将中止加利福尼亚州检察官开展的一项调查，后者正在审查摩根大通的抵押贷款债券。非但如此，上述人士称霍尔德还向戴蒙表示，司法部希望摩根大通对该案件中涉及的一项刑事起诉表示认罪，司法部对一家华尔街银行表现出如此的强势是不多见的。
While they were unable to strike a deal that day, Mr. Dimon and Mr. Holder kept in close touch, talking five times over the last two weeks. And late Friday, on the last of those calls, they finally reached the tentative deal: $13 billion and no promise of dropping the criminal investigation.
当天未能达成协议，但戴蒙和霍尔德一直保持着密切联系，过去两周，他们交谈过五次。上周五晚上，在最后一通电话中，他们终于达成了暂时的协议：罚金130亿美元，没有承诺放弃刑事调查。
The deal, which could still fall apart over issues like how much wrongdoing the bank will admit, would be a record accord for the government. A single corporation has never before paid this much to settle.
目前的协议仍然有可能因为一些问题而破裂，比如摩根大通将承认多少不当行径。但这份协议对政府来说已经是前所未有。从未有一家公司为了结一桩案子花这么多钱。
The deal might also embolden the Justice Department and set a precedent for the agency’s investigations of Wall Street. Using the JPMorgan case as a template, and relying on a law that extends the legal deadline for filing certain financial fraud cases from five years to 10, the Justice Department is planning to take action against other big banks suspected of selling toxic mortgage securities.
这笔交易可能对司法部是一次鼓舞，为该机构调查华尔街树立一个先例。司法部打算利用摩根大通的案子作为模版，凭借着一部可以将某些金融欺诈案的诉讼期限延长到5到10年的法律，针对另外几家大型银行采取行动，这些银行都涉嫌出售有毒的抵押债券。
For JPMorgan, once known as Washington’s favorite bank, the deal would be a stunning reversal of fortune.
摩根大通一度被认为是美国政府最青睐的银行，这项协议对摩根大通来说就像是命运的惊天逆转。
Complicating matters for the bank, Mr. Dimon is inextricably linked to the settlement. With the government, he assumed the role of chief negotiator. And at the bank, as illustrated at the museum gathering last month, he remains its chief cheerleader.
对于摩根大通来说，令事情变得复杂的是，戴蒙与此案的解决密不可分。面对政府，他承担了主要谈判者的角色。在银行，正如上个月在博物馆的聚会所显示的那样，他仍然是所有人信心的主要来源。
He has embraced the dual roles, and the mantle of peacemaker, as the bank faces scrutiny from across the government. At least seven federal agencies, several state regulators and two foreign countries are investigating the bank. The campaign includes everything from a $6 billion trading loss in London last year to the bank’s hiring of well-connected employees in China.
当摩根大通面临着各政府机构政府严密审视的时候，他充分扮演了上述两个角色，并且承担了调解者的责任。至少七家联邦机构、若干州级监管机构和美国之外的两个国家正在调查这家银行。调查既包括去年在伦敦60亿美元的交易亏损，也包括在中国雇佣社会关系广泛人士的问题。
The mortgage case presented the greatest test. Not only are several state and federal agencies involved, but the cases stem from a politically charged issue at the center of the financial crisis: the mortgage bubble.
抵押贷款案对摩根大通构成了最大挑战。这些案子牵扯了几家州级和联邦机构，而且它们还源于一个在金融危机中处于核心位置的、具有高度政治色彩的问题：抵押贷款泡沫。
When credit flowed freely in the run-up to the crisis, banks routinely bundled subprime and other risky loans into securities that they sold to investors. When homeowners fell into foreclosure and the investments soured, it caused billions of dollars in losses for the investors and government authorities began to question whether the banks properly warned of the risks.
在危机爆发之前，信贷自由流动的时候，银行一般会把次级贷款和其他有风险的贷款与出售给投资者的债券绑定。当房屋所有人的回赎权被取消、投资恶化时，这为投资者带来了数十亿美元的损失，政府机构已经开始质问银行，是否就这些风险向投资者提出了应有的警告。
Banks have countered that the risks were fully disclosed and that the investors, including pension funds and other institutions, were sophisticated entities.
各大银行已经反驳说，这些风险都被充分披露，包括养老基金和其他机构在内的投资者，都是富有经验的实体。
Some defense lawyers also question whether the government is going too far. A $13 billion penalty would be more than half of JPMorgan’s profits last year. And some of the mortgage securities in question are not JPMorgan’s. Rather, the bank inherited the liabilities when it bought Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual in 2008, at the height of the financial crisis.
一些辩护律师还质疑，政府是否太过分了。130亿美元的罚金将是摩根大通去年利润的一半以上。而且一些有问题的抵押贷款债券并不是摩根大通的，而是因为2008年金融危机最严重时，这家银行收购华盛顿互惠银行(Washington Mutual)和贝尔斯登(Bear Stearns)时承担了这些债务。
Even now, a significant obstacle stands in the way of a deal: whether JPMorgan will admit to all of the improper actions cited by the Justice Department. Banks are typically loath to acknowledge wrongdoing, fearing it could expose them to a raft of shareholder lawsuits.
即便是现在，要达成协议仍然面临着一个重大阻碍：摩根大通是否会承认司法部指出的所有不当行为。银行一般不愿意承认有不良行为，因为担心可能会面临股东的大量起诉。
A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment. A Justice Department spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment.
摩根大通的一名发言人拒绝置评。司法部的一名发言人没有回复置评请求。