JPMorgan Chase has agreed to pay about $800 million to a host of government agencies in Washington and London — and make a groundbreaking admission of wrongdoing — to settle allegations stemming from a multibillion-dollar trading loss, people briefed on the matter said.
知情人士称，为了与华盛顿和伦敦的一些政府机构达成和解协议，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)同意为涉及价值数十亿美元交易损失的指控支付约8亿美元的罚金，并史无前例地承认自己存在过失。
The settlements, expected this week, will help the nation’s biggest bank move beyond last year’s $6 billion blunder and mend frayed relationships with regulators. Senior JPMorgan executives also avoided charges in the case, another victory for the bank, despite initial questions about whether they misled investors about the risk of the trades.
这项和解协议预计将在本周达成，它将有助于美国最大的银行化解去年酿成的、价值60亿美元的大错，并消除与监管机构之间的嫌隙。其高管免遭指控是摩根大通取得的另一个胜利，尽管最初有人质疑他们是否在相关交易的风险方面误导了投资者。
Even so, it seems unlikely that the bank will be able to close the chapter on the case known as the London Whale just yet.
即便如此，摩根大通似乎也不太可能现在就彻底了结这起被称为“伦敦鲸”的事件。
For one, an admission of wrongdoing with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulators — a reversal of a longtime policy that has allowed banks to “neither admit nor deny” misconduct — will be a rare stain on the reputation of a bank that prides itself on managing risk. It may also expose JPMorgan to private litigation.
比如，向美国证监会(Securities and Exchange Commission)和其他监管机构承认过失的举动，打破了一项允许银行“既不承认、也不否认”失当行为的长期政策，对于一家自诩擅长风险管理的银行来说，这将是其声誉上一个罕见的污点。另外，此举还可能令摩根大通容易遭到私人诉讼。
JPMorgan, the people briefed on the matter said, will acknowledge that it should have caught the problem faster. The settlement, which reflects a somewhat tougher line now being taken by the S.E.C. in seeking admissions from defendants, also will require the bank to admit that its lax controls allowed traders in a unit in London to build the risky position and cover up their losses.  
相关知情人士称，摩根大通将承认它本应更快地发现问题。这项和解协议还要求摩根大通承认，由于该银行管控不严，致使其伦敦某部门的交易员可以不断扩大其风险仓位，并掩盖自己的交易损失；这反映了在要求被告承认错误方面，美国证监会现在的态度变得更加强硬。
And while the bank sought to settle with every regulator at once, at least one is not on board.
而且，虽然摩根大通希望能跟所有监管机构同时达成和解，但至少有一个机构不会让它如愿。
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which oversees the market in which the losses occurred, has balked at joining the broader settlement and plans to fine the bank later this year, the people briefed on the matter said. The agency split from fellow regulators as its investigation went in a different direction. Unlike the S.E.C., the trading commission has examined whether JPMorgan amassed a position so large that it “manipulated” the market for financial contracts known as derivatives.
在“伦敦鲸”交易损失发生的市场，其监管机构是美国商品期货交易委员会(Commodity Futures Trading Commission)。这位知情人士说，该机构拒绝参与这项覆盖范围更广泛的和解协议，而是计划在今年晚些时候对摩根大通处以罚款。它之所以没有加入其他监管机构的行列，是因为它调查的方向不一样。跟证监会不同，该委员会调查的重点是，摩根大通积累的仓位是否大到一定程度，从而可以“操纵”交易“衍生品”这种金融合约的市场。
Federal prosecutors and the F.B.I. in Manhattan are also still investigating the losses.
曼哈顿的联邦检察官和联邦调查局也仍然在对这笔交易损失进行调查。
JPMorgan declined to comment on Monday. The bank has previously noted that it overhauled its internal controls, spotted the traders’ suspicious actions and reported them to the authorities.
摩根大通本周一拒绝就此置评。该银行之前曾表示，它对内部监控机制进行了整改，发现了交易员的可疑行动，并报告给了当局。
In addition to the S.E.C., the looming settlements will include fines from the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The settlements will take the bank to task over a breakdown in controls that allowed the trading losses to occur.
除了美国证监会之外，摩根大通还将跟美联储(Federal Reserve)和美国货币监理署(Office of the Comptroller of the Currency)达成和解协议，接受它们的罚款处理。这些协议斥责摩根大通的管控机制存在问题，使得“伦敦鲸”交易损失得以发生。
The Financial Conduct Authority, the British financial regulator, will also impose a fine on the bank.
英国监管机构金融市场行为监管局(The Financial Conduct Authority)也将对该银行处以罚款。
The collective fines, while hardly record-breaking, outpace what some other big banks have paid when settling with multiple regulators. The penalties fall in between what other banks have paid to settle interest-rate rigging cases, for example, an investigation that led Barclays to dole out $450 million and UBS to pay $1.5 billion.
此次总罚金数额虽然没有打破历史纪录，但也超过了其他某些大银行与多家监管机构达成协议时需要支付的金额。此次罚款金额介于其他银行在利率操纵案中遭受的罚款之间，比如，一起调查曾导致巴克莱银行(Barclays)被罚款4.5亿美元，瑞银(UBS)被罚款15亿美元。
Even with the settlements in the trading loss case, the bank’s regulatory problems are far from resolved.
即使在“伦敦鲸”交易损失事件上，摩根大通达成了这些和解协议，它的监管问题也远未得到解决。
JPMorgan faces inquiries from at least seven federal agencies and two European nations. The authorities have cast a wide net, examining everything from the bank’s hiring practices in China to mortgage loans it sold to investors in the financial crisis.
至少有七家联邦机构和两个欧洲国家还在针对摩根大通展开调查。这些机构广泛撒网，审查包括该银行在中国的招聘行为，以及它在金融危机中向投资者出售的按揭贷款等方方面面。