Before Bernard L. Madoff was charged with stealing billions of dollars from his clients, and before he received a 150-year prison sentence for those crimes, JPMorgan Chase missed its chance to warn federal authorities about his Ponzi scheme.
在伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)被控窃取客户数十亿美元并因此获判150年监禁之前，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)错失了提醒联邦当局注意麦道夫的庞氏骗局的机会。
On Tuesday, five years after Mr. Madoff’s arrest set off a panic on Wall Street and in Washington, Mr. Madoff’s primary bank received a punishment of its own.
周二，在麦道夫被捕一事在华尔街和华盛顿引发恐慌五年后，与麦道夫合作的首要银行收到了自己的罚单。
Federal prosecutors in Manhattan imposed a $1.7 billion penalty on JPMorgan for two felony violations of the Bank Secrecy Act, a record payout under that 1970 law, which requires banks to alert authorities to suspicious activity. The prosecutors, essentially accusing the nation’s biggest bank of turning a blind eye to Mr. Madoff’s fraud, will require JPMorgan to pay the $1.7 billion to his victims. The bank cannot write off the sum as a tax deduction.
因犯有1970年《银行保密法》(Bank Secrecy Act)项下的两项重罪，摩根大通被曼哈顿的联邦检察官处以17亿美元（约合102亿元人民币）的罚款。这是依据该法开出的创纪录罚单，该法要求银行向当局汇报可疑活动。相关检察官主要指责这家全国最大的银行对麦道夫的诈骗视而不见，将要求摩根大通把这17亿美元支付给麦道夫诈骗活动的受害人。摩根大通不能用这笔罚款抵税。
Federal regulators announced their own rebuke of the bank, with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency striking a $350 million settlement, citing the Madoff case and broader breakdowns in safeguards against anti-money laundering. All told, after paying these settlements, JPMorgan will have doled out some $20 billion to resolve government investigations over the last 12 months.
联邦监管机构也宣布了对摩根大通的处罚，货币监理署(Office of the Comptroller of the Currency)与该银行达成了一项3.5亿美元的和解协议，理由是摩根大通在麦道夫案中存在过失，反洗钱防范措施也存在整体上的欠缺。算上这些罚款，为平息过去一年的政府调查，摩根大通花费的总金额将达大约200亿美元。
The criminal element of the case involved a so-called deferred-prosecution agreement with the prosecutors in Manhattan, an agreement that essentially suspends for two years an indictment as long as JPMorgan admits its actions and overhauls its controls against money laundering. Deferred-prosecution agreements, while not as forceful as leveling an indictment or demanding a guilty plea, have been rarely used against a giant American bank and are typically employed only when misconduct is extreme.
这起案件的刑事因素使摩根大通与曼哈顿的检察官达成了一项所谓的延迟起诉协议。大体说来，只要摩根大通承认自己的过失，并对反洗钱控制措施进行完善，该协议便会把起诉推迟两年。延迟起诉协议的力度不及取消起诉或要求涉事方认罪，很少被用于美国的大银行，通常只有在出现极端不当行为时才会启用。
“JPMorgan as an institution failed and failed miserably,” Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan whose office ran the case, said at a news conference on Tuesday.
“不幸的是，作为金融机构的摩根大通屡次三番未能履行职责，”周二，驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)在新闻发布会上说。经办此案的正是他的办公室。
George Venizelos, a senior F.B.I. official, added that “JPMorgan failed to carry out its legal obligations while Bernard Madoff built his massive house of cards.”
联邦调查局(FBI)高级官员乔治· 韦尼泽洛斯(George Venizelos)补充说，“在伯纳德·麦道夫构建自己的庞大骗局时，摩根大通未能履行自己的法定义务。”
JPMorgan, having served as Mr. Madoff’s primary bank for more than two decades, had a unique window into his scheme. In a document outlining the bank’s wrongdoing, prosecutors argued that “the Madoff Ponzi scheme was conducted almost exclusively through” various accounts “held at JPMorgan.”
二十多年的时间里，摩根大通一直是麦道夫主要合作的银行。该银行拥有识破麦道夫骗局的特殊机会。在一份记述摩根大通过失的文件里，检察官称“麦道夫的庞氏骗局几乎都是通过在摩根大通持有的”各个账户“进行的”。
On two occasions, in 2007 and 2008, JPMorgan’s own computer system raised red flags about Mr. Madoff, according to prosecutors. But both times, prosecutors say, JPMorgan employees “closed the alerts.”
检察官称，2007年和2008年，摩根大通自己的电脑系统两次对麦道夫的问题发出了警报。他们还说，但摩根大通的员工两次均“关闭了警报”。
The F.B.I. and prosecutors traced the problem to JPMorgan “willfully” failing to create sufficient controls against money laundering. “There was no meaningful effort by the Bank to examine or investigate the Madoff Securities banking relationship,” prosecutors said.
FBI和检察官对问题进行了追查，发现根源是摩根大通“故意”不设置充足的反洗钱措施。“该银行未曾采取严肃措施，审查或调查麦道夫证券公司(Madoff Securities)的银行业务关系，”检察官说。
In a statement on Tuesday, a JPMorgan spokesman noted that that the bank has since poured significant resources into bolstering its controls but acknowledged that the bank “could have done a better job pulling together various pieces of information and concerns about Madoff from different parts of the bank over time.”
在周二的一则声明中，摩根大通的一名发言人指出，该银行此后已投入大量资源加强管控，但他承认，该银行“如果能把各部门关于麦道夫的信息和疑问汇集到一起，本可以做得更好”。
The spokesman, Joseph M. Evangelisti, also defended the bank’s employees, saying “We do not believe that any JPMorgan Chase employee knowingly assisted Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.” He added that “Madoff’s scheme was an unprecedented and widespread fraud that deceived thousands, including us, and caused many people to suffer substantial losses.”
名为约瑟夫•M·伊凡吉利斯蒂(Joseph M. Evangelisti)的前述发言人还为该银行的职员进行了辩护，称“我们认为，摩根大通没有任何员工明知故犯地协助了麦道夫的庞氏骗局”。他还说，“麦道夫的骗局是一起前所未有、牵涉广泛的诈骗案，欺骗了数以千计的人，其中也包括我们，致使许多人承受了巨大的损失。”
Prosecutors did not charge any JPMorgan employees with wrongdoing. And the bank itself could have faced a harsher punishment, according to people briefed on the settlement talks, with prosecutors considering last year whether to demand a guilty plea from the bank. Ultimately, prosecutors concluded that a deferred-prosecution agreement was more appropriate for a case that began as a civil investigation, without a criminal component.
检方没有指控摩根大通的任何员工行为不当。据了解和解谈判内情的人士透露，该银行自身本可能面临更严厉的处罚，检方去年曾考虑是否要求该银行认罪。但他们最终得出结论，认为延迟起诉协议更适用于一桩始于民事调查、缺乏犯罪构成要素的案件。
The charges against JPMorgan, the result of an F.B.I. investigation that spanned several years, are emblematic of a broader problem among giant global banks: ignoring the warning signs of fraud. The case comes a year after HSBC, the large British bank, paid a $1.9 billion fine for money laundering for enabling Mexican drug cartels to move cash through its branches.
对摩根大通的指控是FBI数年调查的成果，体现了国际银行业巨头普遍存在的一个问题，那就是对诈骗警示迹象的忽视。本案发生一年以前，英国大银行汇丰银行(HSBC)因洗钱罪名而被罚款19亿美元，原因是一些墨西哥贩毒团伙利用了他们的支行来转移资金。
In the case of Mr. Madoff, prosecutors argued in a 19-page statement of facts that JPMorgan acknowledged, the bank alerted British authorities in October 2008 that his investment returns were “so consistently and significantly ahead of its peers” that the results must be “too good to be true.” But JPMorgan never provided a similar warning to authorities in Washington, a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act.
在麦道夫一案中，检方在长达19页的案情陈述书中宣称，摩根大通承认自己曾在2008年10月警告英国监管机构，说麦道夫的投资回报“太过稳定，比同类投资高得太多”，这样的回报显然“丰厚得不像真的”。然而，摩根大通从未向华盛顿的监管机构提出类似的警告，由此违反了《银行保密法》。
Another bank, identified in the statement of facts as “Madoff bank 2,” cut off ties to Mr. Madoff in 1996 and brought its concerns to authorities.
另一家银行在案情陈述书中被称为“麦道夫案件银行2”，该行在1996年断绝了和麦道夫的关系，并向监管机构报告了自己的担忧。
For JPMorgan, the Madoff case is the latest steep payout to the government. In November, JPMorgan paid a record $13 billion to the Justice Department and other authorities over its sale of questionable mortgage securities in the lead-up to the financial crisis.
对摩根大通而言，麦道夫案的罚款是公司向政府支付的最新一笔巨款。去年11月，摩根大通因在金融危机前夕销售可疑抵押债券而向美国司法部和其他主管部门支付了创纪录的130亿美元罚款。
On Tuesday, JPMorgan also announced $543 million in payouts to resolve private lawsuits from the trustee overseeing the return of money to Mr. Madoff’s victims. The deal is something of a victory for the bank. The trustee, Irving H. Picard, initially sought billions of dollars.
周二，摩根大通还宣布将支付5.43亿美元，用于解决向麦道夫案受害者返还资金的受托监管人提出的私人法律诉讼。对银行来说，该协议可算是某种程度的胜利。监管人欧文·皮卡德(Irving H. Picard)原本要索赔数十亿美元。
The payouts, which all but entirely resolve JPMorgan’s Madoff problems, present a paradox for the bank. While the big-dollar sums are something of an embarrassment to a bank that once wielded greater influence in Washington, the settlements also allow JPMorgan to put the cases behind it. As JPMorgan continues to post record profits, the cases are a distraction that the bank is aiming to resolve in rapid succession.
这些赔款基本上彻底解决了摩根大通因麦道夫案招致的问题，它向该银行展示了一个喜忧参半的结果。对于一家曾在华盛顿颐指气使的银行来说，这些巨额罚款显得有些令人尴尬，不过，签署和解协议也让摩根大通能摆脱这些案子的困扰。随着摩根大通继续公布创纪录的利润，这些接二连三的案子成了让人分心的麻烦事，银行的意图是快刀斩乱麻。