SAN FRANCISCO — Motorola Mobility, the handset maker owned by Google, is still trying to find its niche in the smartphone market.
旧金山——谷歌(Google)旗下的摩托罗拉移动(Motorola Mobility)仍试图在智能手机市场找到自己的定位。
Sales of Motorola’s high-end smartphone, the Moto X, have been slow. Now the company is targeting the low end of the market with a less expensive phone, but with a major limitation — Motorola won’t release the new phone in China, the biggest market for low-end phones in the world.
摩托罗拉的高端智能手机Moto X的销售一直缓慢。现在该公司正将目标锁定在低端市场，即将发售一款比较便宜的手机，但摩托罗拉将不在世界上最大的低端手机市场中国发售新手机，这是一个巨大的限制。
The lower-priced phone, Moto G, was announced by the company on Wednesday. It costs at least $180 without a contract, and Motorola thinks it will appeal to people in places like Brazil, Chile and Peru, where there are more than 500 million potential customers.
该公司在周三发布了定价较低的Moto G手机。这款手机的无合约售价最低为180美元（约合1100元人民币），摩托罗拉认为这将会吸引像巴西、智利和秘鲁这些国家的用户，这些市场的潜在用户超过5亿。
Much of its appeal for those customers would be Google’s Internet services that are embedded in the phone. But in China, the government blocks some Google services, including Play, Google’s official online store, making Motorola’s new smartphone far less smart there.
新手机对这些用户最主要的吸引力是其预设的谷歌互联网服务。但在中国，由于政府封锁了一些谷歌的服务，比如谷歌的官方在线商店Play，这让摩托罗拉的新款智能手机在中国远远不够智能。
“Our ability to compete there is a bit constrained,” said Dennis Woodside, Motorola’s chief executive, in an interview. “Moto G won’t be offered in China, initially at least.”
摩托罗拉首席执行官丹尼斯·伍德赛德  (Dennis Woodside)在一次采访中说，“我们在那里的竞争能力受到点限制。Moto G将不会在中国发售，至少一开始是这样。”
Still, Motorola believes the phone will appeal to enough people outside China to be a success. Unlike many cheap smartphones on the market, the Moto G will have a big high-resolution screen and run the latest Android software to support the latest apps on the market. It has a 4.5-inch screen, which puts it right between the smaller iPhone 5S and the larger Galaxy S4 from Samsung Electronics.
尽管如此，摩托罗拉认为这部手机在中国以外仍能吸引到足够多的用户，因此能获得成功。和市场上的很多便宜智能手机不同，Moto G将拥有高分辨率的屏幕，并将运行最新版的Android软件，以支持市场上最新的应用。这部手机屏幕大小为4.5英寸，正好介于小屏的iPhone 5S和三星电子公司(Samsung Electronics)大屏的Galaxy S4之间。
There are some trade-offs that come with making the phone less expensive. The Moto G is bulkier than many popular smartphones — weighing five ounces, it is more than an ounce heavier than an iPhone 5S, which costs $650 without a contract.
制造这部低价手机需要做出一些取舍。Moto G比很多流行的智能手机要重，重量约为140克，比iPhone 5S重约30克，iPhone5S的无合约售价是650美元。
The Moto G also lacks a special feature that made Moto X, its higher-priced sibling, stand out: the ability of the device to continually listen for a user’s voice and quickly react to commands.
Moto G也缺少一项特殊功能，该功能让同牌的高端手机Moto X鹤立鸡群：设备连续接听用户声音并对指令做出快速反应的能力。
But the low-end smartphone’s goal is not to be a flashy piece of gadgetry representing the latest innovation. It is an effort by Motorola to return to growth by reaching as many people as possible, Mr. Woodside said.
但是这款低端手机的目的并不是成为一件时髦设备，充当最近一次创新的代表。伍德赛德说这是摩托罗拉试图通过争取到尽可能多的用户来恢复公司增长的一种努力。
“Google’s mission is to organize all the world’s information and make it universally accessible,” he said. “For Motorola, one of the things we’re trying to do is create a very high-quality mobile Internet experience over time for hundreds of millions of people.”
他说，“谷歌的使命是把世界上所有的信息组织起来，让所有的人都能获取。对摩托罗拉来说，我们要做的是，经过一段时间的努力，为数亿人创造一种高品质的移动互联网体验。”
Smartphones have surpassed the traditional cellphone in sales in the United States and some parts of Europe, and many manufacturers are looking overseas for growth. While Apple and Samsung make most of the profit in the worldwide smartphone market, the makers of cheaper phones — including Huawei, Yulong and ZTE of China, and Micromax and Karbonn of India — are selling well in emerging markets where high-end smartphones are not popular.
在美国和欧洲部分地区，智能手机的销售量已经超过了传统手机的销售量，很多制造商开始在海外寻求增长点。虽然苹果(Apple)和三星公司获得了世界智能手机市场上最大部分的利润，但较低价的手机制造商，比如中国的华为、宇龙和ZTE以及印度的Micromax和Karbonn公司，在新兴市场上的销量都很好，这些市场对高端智能手机的需求不大。
However, like other American companies, Motorola will most likely face tough competition overseas, where many manufacturers have been selling low-end smartphones for years for less than the Moto G. Details about the Moto G leaked online ahead of Motorola’s official announcement, and some analysts who looked at the specifications did not find it very compelling.
但是，和其他美国公司一样，摩托罗拉很可能在海外市场上遇到激烈竞争，很多制造商多年来一直在海外市场以比Moto G价格还低的价格销售低端智能手机。在摩托罗拉正式宣布之前，关于Moto G的细节已被泄露出来，一些看过其技术指标的分析人士并不觉得这款手机很有吸引力。
“It’s heavy, thick and it’s pretty expensive,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst for Alekstra, a mobile trends research firm.
移动市场趋势研究公司Alekstra的分析师泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)说，“这部手机又厚又重，还相当贵。”
Along with the bulkier size, the $180 price tag is still not as aggressive as what some other manufacturers have released in the low end of the market, Mr. Kuittinen added. For example, Samsung’s Galaxy Young, which weighs 3.4 ounces and has a 3-inch screen, costs $100 on Amazon.com. Chinese handset makers like Huawei and ZTE also make Android phones that cost as little as $100.
库伊蒂宁补充道，除了比较笨重外，这部手机180美元的标价也不如一些制造商在低端市场上发售的手机有竞争力。比如，三星的Galaxy Young手机重量不到100克，屏幕为3英寸，在美国亚马逊上的售价为100美元。像华为和ZTE这样的中国手机制造商也在生产最低价格在100美元左右的Android手机。
Motorola says it will sell the Moto G at a profit. The device will go on sale Wednesday in Brazil and parts of Europe, and then in January in other parts of the world like India and Southeast Asia. The phone will also go on sale in January in the United States, where the company thinks the device could appeal to people who cannot afford a fancy smartphone, particularly children.
摩托罗拉说Moto G的定价是为了盈利。这部手机将从周三开始在巴西和欧洲的部分地区出售。明年1月将在像印度和东南亚等其他地区出售，同时也开始在美国销售。公司认为这部手机也能吸引美国的那些无钱购买高端智能手机的人，尤其是儿童。
Along with being unable to sell phones in China, Motorola faces another big limitation. Unlike most manufacturers, Motorola, which Google bought last year for $12.5 billion and then retooled, has to be cautious about its approach to selling hardware. If it were too aggressive, it could harm Google’s partners who sell phones using Google’s Android operating system, which could eventually move people away from Android devices.
除了不能在中国销售手机以外，摩托罗拉还面临着另一种较大的限制。摩托罗拉去年被谷歌以125亿美元的价格收购后作了调整，与许多手机制造商不同，摩托罗拉必须在其硬件销售上小心行事。如果推销得太猛，也许会对损伤谷歌合作商的利益，这些合作商也出售使用谷歌Android操作系统的手机，搞不好他们最终可能会抛弃Android设备。
“That’s the tight line they always have to walk,” Mr. Sharma said. “How hard and how far do they push their own devices?”
夏尔马说，“这是他们永远不得不考虑的平衡：在销售自己的硬件上他们能下多大力量、能走多远。”