HONG KONG — JPMorgan Chase has removed itself from a potential $1 billion share sale by a Chinese chemical company as a United States investigation into hiring practices in China by it and other Wall Street banks moves forward, people with direct knowledge of the matter said on Tuesday.
香港——知情人士周二表示，随着美国推进针对摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)及其他华尔街银行在华雇佣行为的调查，摩根大通已主动退出一家中国化工公司价值10亿美元（约合60亿元人民币）的潜在股份出售计划。
JPMorgan previously employed the daughter of the chairman of a privately held Chinese company, Tianhe Chemicals Group, as a junior banker in Hong Kong, and recently bowed out as a potential underwriter of the company’s planned Hong Kong initial public offering, the people said, declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter.
上述知情人士表示，摩根大通曾雇佣中国私营企业天合化工集团董事长的女儿担任驻香港的初级银行职员，该银行最近退出了天合化工在香港进行首次公开募股(IPO)的计划，不再担任其承销商。鉴于事情非常敏感，这些知情人士拒绝公开姓名。
It is at least the second Chinese I.P.O. that the bank has disassociated itself from since The New York Times disclosed the United States investigation in August. The Securities and Exchange Commission and federal prosecutors in Brooklyn have been investigating whether JPMorgan’s “Sons and Daughters” program of hiring the children of executives at state-owned Chinese companies was directly linked to winning business from those companies. Six other banks have also come under scrutiny over their hiring practices. Neither JPMorgan nor any of the other banks have been accused of wrongdoing.
自《纽约时报》8月份报道美国的相关调查以来，这至少是摩根大通第二次退出中国公司的IPO计划。美国证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)与布鲁克林的联邦检察官一直在调查摩根大通雇佣中国国企高管子女的“子女项目”(Sons and Daughters)，看这个项目是否与摩根大通获取这些公司业务的行为有直接关联。其他六家银行也受到有关雇佣行为的审查。摩根大通和其他六家银行都还没有受到犯罪指控。
In November, JPMorgan withdrew as one of the underwriters of the share sale for the state-owned China Everbright Bank. JPMorgan had previously employed the son of Tang Shuangning, the China Everbright Group’s chairman, a relationship that United States investigators have been examining. China Everbright Bank went on to raise $3 billion in December, in Hong Kong’s biggest I.P.O. of 2013.
去年11月，摩根大通主动退出，不再担任国有银行中国光大银行的股份出售计划的承销商。之前，摩根大通曾雇佣中国光大集团董事长唐双宁的儿子，美国的调查人员一直在调查这层关系。去年12月，中国光大银行举行了2013年香港规模最大的IPO，融资30亿美元。
Two of the people briefed on the matter said JPMorgan’s decision to remove itself from an underwriting role on Tianhe’s planned I.P.O. was made on the bank’s own initiative. “This really starts and stops at JPMorgan’s compliance department in New York, battening down the hatches under all this regulatory scrutiny,” one of the people briefed on the Tianhe deal said.
两名知情人士表示，摩根大通不再担任天合化工的IPO承销商，这个决定是该行主动做出的。一名了解天合化工交易的人士表示，“实际上，这个决定从头到尾都是摩根大通位于纽约的合规部做的，为的是在监管审查形势严峻的时候避避风头。”
Unlike China Everbright Bank, Tianhe is not a state-owned company. As a result, it is unlikely to be central to the United States investigation, which is based on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a 1977 law that makes it illegal for United States companies to exchange “anything of value” with foreign officials to win “an improper advantage” in obtaining business.
与中国光大银行不同，天合并非国有企业。有鉴于此，它不太可能成为以《反海外腐败法》(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) 为依据的美国调查的焦点。这项1977年的法律禁止美国公司为了“获得不当利益”而与外国官员交易“任何有价值的东西”。
Hong Kong authorities investigating the practices, however, might be interested in the ties to a private company.
然而，对这些做法进行调查的香港官员可能会对该行与一家私营企业的联系感兴趣。
International Financing Review reported JPMorgan’s exit from the potential Tianhe deal on Monday.
周一，《国际金融评论》(International Financing Review)报道了摩根大通退出天合潜在交易的事情。
Joyce Wei, the daughter of Tianhe’s chairman, Wei Qi, was licensed as a financial professional at JPMorgan’s Hong Kong unit from January 2012 until August 2013, according to a database maintained by Hong Kong’s securities regulator.
根据香港证券管理机构编制的数据库，2012年1月到2013年8月间，天合董事长魏奇的女儿魏娇(Joyce Wei)曾是摩根大通香港分支机构的一名金融专业人员。
Efforts to contact Joyce Wei were unsuccessful, and Tianhe did not immediately respond to emails sent after normal working hours seeking comment.
记者未能与魏娇取得联系，天合也没有及时回复记者在正常工作时间之后发送的请求置评的电子邮件。
Since October, she has been working at UBS in Hong Kong, according to the database. She is employed in the Swiss bank’s equities and capital markets group but is not involved in the planned Tianhe I.P.O., according to one person with direct knowledge of with the matter.
前述数据库显示，自10月以来，她一直在香港的瑞银(UBS)工作。一名对此事有直接了解的人士说，她受雇于这家瑞士银行的股本和资本市场部门，但却没有参与计划中的天合IPO。
Morgan Stanley, UBS and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are currently leading Tianhe’s plans to raise $1 billion or more in a Hong Kong share sale that could take place by June, the people said, but they have not been formally hired to run the deal yet. Morgan Stanley’s private equity unit made a $300 million investment in the Chinese chemical firm in 2012.
前述知情人士称，目前，摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)、瑞银和美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)正在推动天合在香港销售股份的计划，此次销售可能会在6月前举行，天合计划通过此次销售筹集至少10亿美元的资金。不过，这些银行还没有获得操作此次交易的正式聘请。2012年，摩根士丹利的私募股权投资部门向这家中国化工公司投入了3亿美元。
JPMorgan had been one of several Wall Street banks that worked with Tianhe in 2011 on plans for a dual listing in London and Hong Kong, but those plans were shelved in the wake of the European debt crisis, one of the people said.
一名知情人士表示，2011年，曾有几家华尔街银行与天合进行合作，准备让天合在伦敦与香港同时上市，摩根大通也是其中之一，但由于欧洲债务危机的影响，这些计划遭到了搁置。