More than three thousand miles from the Park Avenue headquarters of JPMorgan Chase, traders in an office building nestled near the Thames River disguised the extent of their losses as a huge bet spun out of control last year, federal authorities say.
泰晤士河附近的一座办公楼里距离摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)位于公园大道的总部办公楼有三千多英里之遥，联邦当局表示，去年在那里，该银行的交易员在一桩巨大赌局失控后，做假账掩盖了损失规模。
While just two former London traders for JPMorgan were criminally charged on Wednesday, the cases intensify the scrutiny of the bank’s executives in New York, where lax controls and the pressure for profits aggravated the problem.
本周三，摩根大通驻伦敦的两名前交易员受到刑事指控。尽管只有两人被控，但案件还是促使人们更加严格地审视该银行的纽约高管，正是来自总部的宽松控制和盈利压力加剧了问题。
Federal authorities outlined the breakdown in the bank’s oversight in the two criminal complaints against the employees: Javier Martin-Artajo, a manager who oversaw the trading strategy, and Julien Grout, a low-level trader in London. The employees, accused of manipulating the books to disguise hundreds of millions of dollars in losses, operated for months with scant supervision and the impression that higher-ups of the bank supported them.
联邦当局向负责交易策略的经理哈维尔·马丁-阿塔霍(Javier Martin-Artajo)，以及伦敦一名低级别交易员朱利安·格鲁(Julien Grout)提起了刑事指控，在指控材料中，当局简要介绍了银行在管理上的松懈。这两名员工被指控做假账，掩盖数亿美元的损失，他们这样操作了几个月，几乎没有受到监督，并且觉得自己得到了上级的支持。
When Mr. Martin-Artajo directed Mr. Grout to record losses only in extreme circumstances, he claimed that the directive came from New York, meaning the bank’s senior management. People inside the bank dispute that notion, arguing that Mr. Martin-Artajo had taken steps to conceal his actions from superiors. Still, according to the complaint, when another bank employee queried Mr. Grout about some of his valuations, he replied, “Ask management.”
当马丁-阿塔霍让格鲁只有在极端的情况下才录入亏损时，他声称该命令来自纽约，意指该银行的高管层。摩根大通的内部人员反驳了这种说法，辩称马丁-阿塔霍蓄意向上级隐瞒他的行动。尽管如此，指控材料显示，银行的另一名员工向格鲁询问他的一些估值情况时，他回答说，“去问管理层吧。”
The manipulation continued, the government said, even as some of the traders were sounding alarms. According to the complaints, when Mr. Grout said he was going to show a modest loss one day of about $10 million, a fraction of the true size, another trader responded, “I don’t want to know about it.”
当局称，即使一些交易员发出了警告，但他们还在继续做假账。指控材料显示，当格鲁说他打算记录1000万美元的小幅日损失时，另一位交易员回应说，“我不想知道这件事。”这个数字只是真实数字的零头。
At a news conference to announce the charges, federal authorities took aim at not only the traders but the bank and its top managers, including Jamie Dimon, the chief executive who originally dismissed concerns about the trades as a “tempest in a teapot” before later acknowledging that he was “dead wrong.”
联邦当局在新闻发布会上公布这些指控时，目标不仅指向交易员，也指向了银行及其高层管理人员，包括首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)，他最初曾说对这些交易的关注是“大惊小怪”，后来才承认自己“大错特错”。
“This was not a tempest in a teapot but rather a perfect storm of individual misconduct and inadequate internal controls,” said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, taking a thinly veiled swipe at Mr. Dimon’s earlier assertion. April Brooks, a senior F.B.I. official, called the bank’s compliance regime “little more than a rubber stamp.”
曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)对戴蒙最初的说法予以了毫不隐晦的回击，“这不是小题大做，而是个人不当行为和内部管控不严引起的一场大风暴。”联邦调查局(FBI)高级官员艾普尔·布鲁克斯(April Brooks)称该银行的合规机制“比橡皮图章强不了多少”。
JPMorgan declined to comment on Wednesday. The bank has previously noted that it overhauled its internal controls, spotted the traders’ suspicious actions and reported them to the authorities.
周三，摩根大通拒绝置评。该银行此前曾指出，它对内部监控机制进行了大幅改进，发现了交易员的可疑举动，并向当局进行了汇报。
Yet the charges and the broader critiques of JPMorgan have dealt a blow to the reputation of the bank, the nation’s largest, once renowned for its prowess in managing risk.
然而，这些指控，以及摩根大通遭受到的更广泛的批评，已经严重打击了该银行的声誉，作为全美最大的银行，摩根大通一度以风险管理得力而闻名。
The case could also foreshadow further actions as Mr. Bharara’s office continues to weigh penalties for JPMorgan over the trading blowup that has now generated more than $6 billion in losses. Prosecutors and the F.B.I. are also investigating more senior executives at the bank, according to people briefed on the matter.
由于巴拉拉的办公室还在继续考虑对摩根大通的交易爆仓事件（现在损失已经超过60亿美元）的处罚，这个案件可能预示会有进一步的行动。知情人士称，检察官和FBI正在调查该行更多的高级管理人员。
One executive referred to in the criminal case but neither named nor charged is Achilles Macris, who was Mr. Martin-Artajo’s supervisor. Mr. Macris remains under investigation. The future of the investigation, the people said, hinges on whether Mr. Martin-Artajo and Mr. Grout decide to cooperate.
这起刑事案件中涉及的一位高管既没有被指名道姓，也没有受到指控。他就是马丁-阿塔霍的上司阿基利斯·马克里斯(Achilles Macris)。马克里斯目前仍在接受调查。有人说，未来调查的关键取决于马丁-阿塔霍和格鲁是否会配合检方。
Mr. Martin-Artajo and Mr. Grout were charged with wire fraud, falsifying bank records and contributing to false regulatory filings. The government also charged them with conspiracy to commit those crimes.
马丁-阿塔霍和格鲁被控电讯欺诈、伪造银行记录和参与编制虚假监管报表。政府还指控他们合谋犯下了这些罪行。
Federal authorities have held talks with British authorities about extraditing the traders, according to people briefed on the matter. Yet Mr. Martin-Artajo is away from London on vacation and Mr. Grout left London this year for France.
知情人士透露，联邦政府部门已经与英国官方就引渡交易员的问题进行过会谈。然而马丁-阿塔霍已经离开伦敦度假，格鲁今年也离开了伦敦前往法国。
“He has absolutely no intention of fleeing,” said Mr. Grout’s lawyer, Edward Little.
格鲁的律师爱德华·利特尔(Edward Little)说，“他绝对没有逃跑的意图。”
Mr. Martin-Artajo’s lawyers said their client was “confident that when a complete and fair reconstruction of these complex events is completed, he will be cleared of any wrongdoing.”
马丁-阿塔霍的律师们表示，他们的当事人“相信，在这些复杂的事件完整、公正地重建完毕后，他就能洗脱所有行为不端的嫌疑。”
The government’s action is notable for what it did not do: Charge a third trader who came to embody the trading blowup with the nickname “the London Whale,” called that because of the huge size of his wagers.
在政府的行动中，有一点很引人注意：另外一名交易员未被起诉，该人因在信贷衍生品投资中造成巨额损失而被称为“伦敦鲸”(London Whale)。
That trader, Bruno Iksil, has reached a so-called nonprosecution deal with authorities in Manhattan that will spare him charges as long as he cooperates against the two former colleagues.
这名交易员名叫布鲁诺·伊克西尔(Bruno Iksil)，他已经与曼哈顿官方达成了所谓的“不起诉”交易，只要在针对那两名前同事的调查中进行配合，就可以免受指控。
The charges on Wednesday stem from a bet the traders built over the years. Deploying derivatives — complex financial tools with values linked to an asset like a corporate bond — the traders made bets on the health of large corporations like American Airlines.
周三的指控源自交易商多年来建立起的一桩赌局。通过构建衍生品，交易人员实质上对像美国航空(American Airlines)这样的大型企业的经营状况下了赌注。衍生品是一种复杂的金融工具，其价值与某种资产（如企业债券）的价值相关联。
The scheme to cover up losses on the bets, the government says, ran from March to May of 2012. JPMorgan eventually restated its first-quarter earnings for 2012 downward by $459 million, conceding that the valuations were flawed.
政府表示，试图掩盖在这些交易中发生的损失的操作，是在2012年3月至5月间进行的。摩根大通最终重新披露了2012年一季度的业绩，将数据下调了4.59亿美元，承认估值存在问题。
The criminal charges also detailed how the traders received significant leeway to value their bets. Within the chief investment office — the unit responsible for the losses — a monitor was effectively “neither independent nor rigorous” and was staffed in London “with essentially a single employee.”
刑事指控中还详细阐述了交易员在对自己的交易估值时，得到了多么大的裁量空间。负责这些损失的是首席投资办公室，那里的监督部门实质上“既不独立也不严格”，而在伦敦，“实质上只有一名员工”。
The problems extended to New York, where traders “steamrolled” the independent group in monthly meetings, said a former bank employee who spoke on the condition of anonymity. JPMorgan has already conceded that the group was flawed.
同样的问题也延伸到了纽约，一名要求匿名的该行前员工透露，在这里交易人员在月度会议上会“压制”这个独立部门。摩根大通已经承认这个部门存在缺陷。
In the charges, federal authorities showed how the bank instilled fear in its traders. Mr. Martin-Artajo went on high alert in late January 2012, when his boss, Mr. Macris, e-mailed to express the need to “urgently re-evaluate” part of the trade.
在指控材料中，联邦当局也展示了该行是怎样向交易人员灌输恐惧的。2012年1月底，马丁-阿塔霍警惕了起来，当时他的老板马克里斯给他发邮件表示，需要“紧急重估”部分交易的价值。
In turn, the government said, he pressured the traders to minimize the losses. And when the traders nonetheless recorded a $40 million loss on one day in March 2012, he questioned Mr. Iksil in a recorded phone call cited in the complaints: “Why did you do that,” adding, “you’re losing your mind here, man.”
政府表示，他反过来向交易员施压，要求他们减少损失。而在2012年3月的一天，交易员仍然报告损失了4000万美元之时，他在指控材料中提到的一段电话录音中质问伊克西尔：“你怎么这么做？”还说，“哥们，你简直是疯了。”
Mr. Martin-Artajo, according to the complaints, said Mr. Macris “told me yesterday not to do it,” referring to showing the profit and loss on the trade.
指控材料中提到，马丁-阿塔霍说，马克里斯“昨天告诉我别这么做”，这是指披露出交易的盈亏。
The complaints show that Mr. Iksil also expressed frustration with his boss, Mr. Martin-Artajo. In an instant message with Mr. Grout, for example, Mr. Iksil declared that “that he did not know where Mr. Martin-Artajo “wants to stop, but it's getting idiotic.”
指控材料显示，伊克西尔还表达过他对老板马丁-阿塔霍的不满。例如，在与格鲁的一则即时通讯记录中，伊克西尔称，他不知道马丁-阿塔霍想什么时候“收手，现在的情况有些愚蠢”。
The tension was also on display on March 30, 2012, when Mr. Iksil and Mr. Grout estimated a loss at $200 million, even though an earlier estimate showed it was $250 million. Unsatisfied, Mr. Martin-Artajo asked to lower it further to $150 million, according to the complaints. When Mr. Iksil balked, Mr. Martin-Artajo told him he “could leave for the day.” Mr. Grout stayed late and recorded the loss at $138 million, prompting Mr. Martin-Artajo to reply: “excellent.”
2012年3月30日，紧张关系也显露了出来。伊克西尔和格鲁估计损失为2亿美元，不过较早前的一次估算显示损失为2.5亿美元。指控材料显示，马丁-阿塔霍还不满足，要求进一步调整，要降到1.5亿美元。伊克西尔退缩后，马丁-阿塔霍告诉他“今天可以下班了”，之后格鲁留下来，将损失记录为1.38亿美元。接着马丁-阿塔霍回复说：“太棒了。”