Federal authorities are preparing to take action in a criminal investigation of JPMorgan Chase, suspecting that the bank turned a blind eye to Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.
美国联邦当局正准备在针对摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的刑事调查中采取行动，理由是怀疑该行对伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)的庞氏骗局视而不见。
The Madoff case, coming on the heels of a tentative $13 billion settlement over JPMorgan’s mortgage practices, poses another major threat to the reputation of the nation’s largest bank.
摩根大通刚刚就其抵押贷款业务达成了一项130亿美元（约合790亿元人民币）的临时和解协议，这起与麦道夫有关的案件又紧随其后，让这家美国最大的银行的声誉再遭重创。
Reflecting the magnitude of the investigation, prosecutors and JPMorgan have held preliminary discussions about a so-called deferred prosecution agreement, people briefed on the inquiry said. Such an arrangement would suspend criminal charges against JPMorgan in exchange for a fine, certain other concessions and an acknowledgment that the bank will face charges if it fails to behave. Prosecutors may also require JPMorgan, which has repeatedly said that “all personnel acted in good faith” in the Madoff matter, to hire an independent monitor.
知情人士透露，检察部门与摩根大通初步探讨了所谓的“暂缓起诉协议”，这反映出调查的深度。此类安排将暂停对摩根大通的刑事起诉，作为交换，该行将缴纳一笔罚款、做出某些其他让步，并且认可一旦出现不佳表现，就将面临指控。检察部门还可能要求摩根大通雇佣一家独立监督机构。该行曾反复强调，在麦道夫问题上“所有员工均表现诚实”。
While deferred-prosecution agreements are the Justice Department’s preferred tool for punishing corporate giants — they allow prosecutors to appear tough without imperiling a company’s health — they are typically deployed only when misconduct is severe. For a large American bank, they are nearly unheard-of.
暂缓起诉协议是受到司法部青睐的惩罚大企业的手段，能够让检察部门表现强硬，同时又不会伤了企业的元气。虽说如此，但它一般只在不端行为较为严重的时候启用。几乎从未听过说被用在大型美国银行身上。
But the government, the people added, has not ruled out a harsher punishment for JPMorgan Chase’s national banking subsidiary. Prosecutors could demand that the unit plead guilty to a criminal violation of the Bank Secrecy Act, a federal law requiring financial institutions to report suspicious activity to the government.
不过知情人士还表示，政府尚未排除对摩根大通的国内银行业务部门施加更为严厉的惩罚的可能性。检察机构可能会要求该部门在违反《银行保密法》(Bank Secrecy Act)的刑事指控上认罪。《银行保密法》是美国联邦法律，其中规定，金融机构应向政府报告可疑活动。
Underscoring concerns that a guilty plea could destabilize the bank, the people said, prosecutors have discussed the ramifications of criminal charges with one of JPMorgan’s regulators. But the regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, assured the prosecutors that it would not interfere.
知情人士称，检察部门与监管摩根大通的一家机构讨论了刑事起诉的后果，这突显了对认罪可能会在该行引发动荡的担忧。这家监管机构是美国货币监理署(Office of the Comptroller of the Currency)。它向检察部门保证，不会插手此事。
Representatives for JPMorgan, the Comptroller and the prosecutors declined to comment. Authorities could announce an action by the end of the year, the people briefed on the inquiry said. Prosecutors, the people said, are weighing criminal charges against JPMorgan employees who did business with Mr. Madoff. It is unclear which employees are under investigation.
摩根大通的代表、货币监理署及检察部门均拒绝评论此事。知情人士透露，当局可能在年底宣布一项行动。他们还表示，检察机构正在权衡，是否要对与麦道夫有业务往来的摩根大通雇员提起刑事诉讼。目前，尚不清楚究竟是哪些雇员正在接受调查。
The investigation, led by the F.B.I. and the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan, centers on whether JPMorgan failed to alert federal authorities to Mr. Madoff’s conduct. JPMorgan served as Mr. Madoff’s primary bank for more than two decades, giving it a unique window onto his practices.
相关调查由联邦调查局(FBI)与驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官办公室牵头，中心议题是，摩根大通是否没有尽到提醒联邦当局留意麦道夫行为的义务。在二十多年的时间里，麦道夫都以摩根大通作为主要银行，因此后者有独特的视角来观察他的行为。
The case will most likely hinge on a series of e-mails that suggest JPMorgan continued to work with Mr. Madoff even as questions mounted about his operation. In one e-mail that surfaced in a separate lawsuit, a JPMorgan employee acknowledged that Mr. Madoff’s outsize returns seemed “a little too good to be true.”
本案的结果很可能取决于一系列的电子邮件。这些邮件表明，即便是在针对麦道夫的运作出现了越来越多的质疑之后，摩根大通仍继续与之合作。另一桩法律诉讼中披露的一封电子邮件显示，一名摩根大通雇员承认，麦道夫的超高收益率似乎“有点好得太不真实”。
The people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, cautioned that the government had not decided to charge any current or former JPMorgan employees. Likewise, the discussions with the bank itself are preliminary and the government has not concluded what action to take. Two of the people noted that prosecutors were more likely to seek a deferred prosecution agreement than to demand a guilty plea.
相关知情人士要求不透露姓名。他们谨慎地表示，政府尚未决定起诉任何之前或现在的摩根大通雇员。而且，与该行的讨论本身也处于初级阶段，政府尚未决定采取何种行动。有两名知情人士指出，比起要求摩根大通认罪，检察部门更可能寻求达成暂缓起诉协议。
Neither JPMorgan nor any other big Wall Street bank has ever been subjected to such an agreement before, according to a University of Virginia Law School database. Among large American banks, only Wachovia and the banking arm of American Express have entered into such an agreement.
弗吉尼亚大学法学院(University of Virginia Law School)的数据库显示，无论是摩根大通，还是其他任何华尔街大银行，以前均未施行过此类协议。在大型美国银行中，仅美联银行(Wachovia)与美国运通(American Express)的银行部门曾达成过暂缓起诉协议。
But if it does pursue a guilty plea, the government would deal another blow to the reputation of JPMorgan and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon. The bank was once an industry favorite in regulatory circles.
可是，假如寻求认罪，政府将再次给予摩根大通及其首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)重重一击。该行一度是银行业监管圈里的宠儿。
HSBC, for example, paid $1.9 billion to settle a money-laundering case, but the Justice Department stopped short of indicting the British bank. The case reinforced concerns that big banks, having grown so large and interconnected, are too big to indict.
比方说，汇丰(HSBC)为和解一桩洗钱案支付了19亿美元，不过，美国司法部并未起诉这家英国银行。这起案件加深了一种担忧，那就是，各大型银行变得规模如此庞大、彼此之间的关系如此盘根错节，以致于没法起诉。
Yet Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan whose office is handling the JPMorgan case, has disputed that theory. In a recent speech, Mr. Bharara said he rejected the idea from companies that “because we’re so big, to take action against us, the sky is going to fall.”
然而，负责摩根大通案件的曼哈顿联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)不同意这种看法。在最近的一次发言中，巴拉拉表示，他拒绝接受有些公司所说的，“因为我们规模太大，对我们采取行动，天就会塌下来”的说法。
“I don’t think anyone is too big to indict — no one is too big to jail,” Mr. Bharara said at another speech.
“我不认为有任何公司大得不能起诉——没有人重要得不能被关进监狱。”巴拉拉在另一个场合说。
The Manhattan United States attorney and the F.B.I are not the only ones pursuing JPMorgan over the Madoff case. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency recently sent the bank a notice indicating that the agency would soon fine the bank over the Madoff case, two people briefed on the case said.
盯上摩根大通和麦道夫案关系的不仅有驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官和联邦调查局。两名知情人士称，美国货币监理署最近也发给摩根大通一份通知，说该机构很快将因麦道夫案对该行处以罚款。
Irving H. Picard — the trustee seeking to recover money for Mr. Madoff’s victims — also sued JPMorgan in 2010. The trustee sued UBS, HSBC and UniCredit Bank Austria, as well, although a federal appeals court in Manhattan has tossed out his lawsuits against the banks. Mr. Picard recently petitioned the United States Supreme Court to hear his appeal.
欧文·皮卡德(Irving H. Picard)是为麦道夫案受害者追回资金的受托人，他曾在2010年起诉了摩根大通。一同遭到起诉的还有瑞银集团(UBS)、汇丰和奥地利联合信贷银行(UniCredit Bank Austria)，不过曼哈顿的一家联邦上诉法院已经驳回了他对这些银行的起诉。皮卡德最近请求美国最高法院受理他的上诉。
JPMorgan has denied Mr. Picard’s allegations.
摩根大通否认了皮卡德的指控。
The developments come at a difficult time for JPMorgan, which faces an onslaught of government scrutiny.
摩根大通正处在面临政府严查的困难时期，现在又出现了这些新发展。
JPMorgan is also grappling with an investigation into the bank’s decision to hire the sons and daughters of senior Chinese government officials. And Mr. Bharara’s office is examining whether some of the bank’s trading in the energy markets amounted to manipulation.
而且，摩根大通还纠缠在涉及中国政府高级官员子女雇佣决定的调查中。巴拉拉的办公室也正在调查该行在能源市场的一些交易是否属于操纵行为。
The Madoff case is particularly thorny. Any action would link the bank to the most notorious financial criminal in more than a generation. Mr. Madoff orchestrated a Ponzi scheme lasting decades that wiped out an estimated $17 billion in cash for his investors. Paper losses reached more than $64 billion.
麦道夫案特别棘手。它是超过一代人时间里最臭名昭著的金融犯罪案件，任何行动都会把摩根大通跟它联系到一起。麦道夫精心策划了一个持续时间长达数十年的庞氏骗局。据估计，他损失了来自投资者的约170亿美元现金。该案件账面损失逾640亿美元。
Mr. Madoff’s ties to JPMorgan trace to 1986, when it became his primary banker. Over the course of that relationship, Mr. Picard claims, JPMorgan “made at least half a billion dollars in fees and profits” from the relationship.
麦道夫跟摩根大通的关系可以追溯到1986年，当时，摩根大通成为麦道夫的主要往来银行。皮卡德称，摩根大通先后从这种关系中“赚取了至少5亿美元的费用和利润”。
The bank, according to Mr. Picard’s lawsuit, generated handsome sums by allowing Mr. Madoff’s brokerage firm to “funnel billions of dollars” through its account with JPMorgan, “disregarding its own anti-money laundering duties.”
皮卡德的诉讼资料中说，摩根大通“罔顾自己反洗钱的职责”，通过让麦道夫的经纪公司在该银行的账户中“进出上百亿美元”，赚到了可观的收入。
The bank, starting around 2006, also pursued derivatives deals linked to Mr. Madoff’s so-called feeder-fund investors, the hedge funds that invested their clients’ money with him.
在2006年左右，摩根大通也开始从事跟麦道夫所谓的“支线基金”(feeder-fund)投资者有关的衍生品交易。“支线基金”是一种对冲基金，它们用客户的资金向麦道夫投资。
About that time, concerns began to circulate within JPMorgan.
差不多在那个时候，摩根大通内部开始有些人对此表示担忧。
“I do have a few concerns and questions,” one JPMorgan employee wrote in February 2006 after studying some of Mr. Madoff’s trading records, according to an e-mail cited in the lawsuit. “All trades are generated by Madoff’s black box.”
诉讼资料中援引的一封电邮显示，2006年2月，摩根大通的一名员工在研究过麦道夫的一些交易记录后写道，“我有一些顾虑和疑问，所有的交易都是在麦道夫的暗箱中进行的。”
But JPMorgan’s derivatives deals, which allowed investors to collect returns tied to the profits of the feeder funds, took off anyway. By June 2007, JPMorgan’s “Equity Exotics” unit had sold more than $130 million worth of the deals to investors, Mr. Picard’s lawsuit said.
但摩根大通的衍生品交易还是发展壮大起来，其投资者获得的回报跟相关支线基金利润的挂钩。皮卡德的诉讼资料中称，到2007年6月，摩根大通的非标准金融产品(Equity Exotics)部门已经向投资者销售了逾1.3亿美元的这种衍生品。
That month, JPMorgan employees sought approval to push the total to $1.32 billion, according to the lawsuit.
当月，摩根大通的员工申请把总额提高到13.2亿美元，诉讼资料称。
On June 15, 2007, when a JPMorgan committee met to ponder the proposal, new suspicions emerged about Mr. Madoff. A senior risk management officer at the bank e-mailed colleagues to report that another bank executive “just told me that there is a well-known cloud over the head of Madoff and that his returns are speculated to be part of a Ponzi scheme.” The senior officer added that “I think we owe it to ourselves to investigate further.”
2007年6月15日，当摩根大通的一个委员会开会研究这个申请时，又有人表示了对麦道夫的怀疑。该银行的一位高级风险管理人员发电邮给同事，说该银行的另一位高级管理人员“刚刚告诉我，很多人觉得麦道夫的头上疑云重重，据推测，他的投资回报属于一个庞氏骗局”。这位高级风险管理人员还说，“我认为，我们必须要做进一步的调查。”
But according to Mr. Picard, the bank’s further research amounted to a phone call with Mr. Madoff and “a Google search with no follow-up.”
但根据皮卡德的说法，摩根大通的进一步调查就是打了个电话给麦道夫，并“在谷歌上搜索了一下，没有后续行动”。
Similar concerns were enough to deter JPMorgan’s own private bank from doing business with Mr. Madoff. In an e-mail, a JPMorgan wealth management executive remarked that Mr. Madoff’s “Oz-like signals” were “too difficult to ignore.”
类似的担心足以阻止摩根大通自己的私人银行与麦道夫做生意。在一封电邮中，摩根大通的财富管理主管表示，麦道夫的“魔法一般的信号太难以忽视了”。
After Mr. Madoff’s arrest in December 2008, Mr. Picard said, a flurry of JPMorgan e-mails captured the lack of surprise at the bank.
麦道夫在2008年12月被捕后，皮卡德说，摩根大通的许多电邮显示，该银行对此并不感到惊讶。
One employee, referring to the agenda for the June 2007 meeting, wrote, “Perhaps best this never sees the light of day again!!”
在提到2007年6月那次会议的议程时，一名员工写道，“这个东西最好永远不要曝光！”