In the spring of 1955, Grace Kelly sprinkled a bit of stardust around the eighth international film festival in Cannes, then headed up the coast to Monaco, where she met, and eventually married, the principality’s reigning monarch, Rainier III.
1955年春，格蕾丝·凯利(Grace Kelly)在第8届戛纳国际电影节上挥洒了一点魅力，然后前往摩纳哥海岸，她在那里遇到了摩纳哥执政君主兰尼埃三世(Rainier III)，并最终嫁给了他。
At least in memory, Princess Grace will now return to Cannes on Wednesday evening, with the opening-night gala premiere of a biographical film, “Grace of Monaco.” But the road back hasn’t been smooth.
至少在纪念的意义上，周三晚上格蕾丝王妃返回戛纳——传记电影《摩纳哥王妃》(Grace of Monaco)作为开幕电影在这里举行首映。但是回归的路并不平坦。
The festival is no stranger to turmoil. As recently as 2011, the director Lars von Trier was thrown out for joking about Nazi sympathies. But the event has rarely, if ever, opened with a movie that was so badly jolted by disputes over its content, its planned release and even the decision to screen it in a seemingly perfect setting, where the fairy tale began of an American actress who became a princess.
该电影节经历过很多这样的动荡。最近一次是在2011年，导演拉尔斯·冯·特里尔(Lars von Trier)因为开玩笑对纳粹表示同情而被拒绝。但是该电影节很少以如此有争议的电影开幕，争议涉及影片内容、发行计划，甚至包括这个在看似完美的地点首映的决定——美国女演员变成王妃的童话故事就是在这里开始的。
“We love Cannes, it was something like a gift,” said Pierre-Ange Le Pogam, a producer of the film, of its selection.
“我们很喜欢戛纳，它像一份礼物，”这部电影的制片人皮埃尔-昂热·勒波甘(Pierre-Ange Le Pogam)谈起选择在戛纳首映的决定时说。
Mr. Le Pogam spoke last week by telephone of his aim to transcend discord around the picture, which was directed by Olivier Dahan (known for “La Vie en Rose,” about Edith Piaf) and stars Nicole Kidman in a look-alike performance as Princess Grace, alongside Tim Roth, as Prince Rainier. Still, tensions boiled over in late January exactly as the Cannes festival and its director, Thierry Frémaux, announced its selection for a first-night showing.
勒波甘上周在电话中说他想平息这部电影引发的争执。这部电影由奥利弗·达昂(Olivier Dahan，以执导关于伊迪丝·皮雅芙[Edith Piaf]的《玫瑰人生》[La Vie en Rose]而闻名）导演，由妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)饰演与她外形酷似的格蕾丝王妃，蒂姆·罗思(Tim Roth)饰演兰尼埃王子。不过，1月底戛纳电影节和其主管蒂埃里·弗雷莫(Thierry Frémaux)宣布选择这部电影作为开幕影片时，局面更加紧张。
In short order, Harvey Weinstein, whose Weinstein Company had expected to release the film in the United States in March, with a world premiere of its own, cried foul over the opening plans.
哈维·温斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)立刻强烈抗议这个开幕计划。温斯坦公司原计划3月份在美国发行本片。
Nobody had told Mr. Weinstein about the plan for the premiere in Cannes, according to people briefed on his dealings, who spoke on condition of anonymity because plans for the film were still in flux. And the evening before the festival announcement, he had rejected the delivery of what he regarded as an incomplete version of a film that struck him and fellow executives as being too much like a Hitchcock thriller and too little like what they anticipated — a yarn about a princess in a gilded cage.
据了解温斯坦事务的人说，没人告诉他在戛纳首映的计划。提供消息的人要求匿名，因为本片的发行计划尚未确定。在电影节宣布这个决定的前夜，他拒绝提交该片，因为他和其他主管认为这个不完整的版本太像希区柯克的惊悚片，完全不像他们期待的影片——一个关于困在镀金鸟笼中的王妃的故事。
An agreement on how the rollout will work is still being sorted out.
首次展示如何进行仍在商讨中。
Weinstein, which bought rights to “Grace of Monaco” after the Berlin film festival last year, had already once bumped the movie out of its fall schedule, as Mr. Weinstein proposed a revised version. In a public interview, Mr. Dahan excoriated the Weinstein cut in profane terms, while accusing Mr. Weinstein of “blackmail.”
温斯坦公司去年在柏林电影节后买下了《摩纳哥王妃》的版权。温斯坦提议做一个修订版，所以该公司已经把该片从秋季上映计划中清除出去了。在一次公开访谈中，达昂言辞犀利地指责温斯坦的剪辑版本，说他在“勒索”。
Mr. Pogam acknowledges that Mr. Weinstein probably did not know of the Cannes submission. But the disputes, he said, actually reflected deeper differences in American and European points of view toward film.
勒波甘承认，温斯坦很可能不知道向戛纳提交影片的事情。但是他说，争执实际上反映出了美国人和欧洲人对电影的深层次分歧。
“You are Hollywood, you are the dreamers, this is why we love you,” Mr. Pogam said. “We are sometimes said to be arrogant, and serious, though I don’t think we are,” he added.
“你们是好莱坞，是梦想家，这是我们喜爱你们的原因，”勒波甘说，“有时有人说我们傲慢、严肃，但是我不这么认为。”
While Mr. Weinstein rumbled last month about abandoning the film over what he saw as a breach of contractual obligations, Gaumont and other European distributors proceeded with plans to open the movie abroad on the heels of Cannes.
虽然温斯坦上个月抱怨说因为对方违背合同义务所以他放弃了这部电影，但是高蒙(Gaumont)和其他欧洲发行公司打算在戛纳电影节后继续进行在海外上映该片的计划。
Mr. Weinstein isn’t the only one who has raised objections over the film. Monaco’s ruling Grimaldi family has publicly criticized “Grace of Monaco” as a “farce.”
温斯坦不是唯一一个对该片提出异议的人。摩纳哥的统治家族格里马尔迪家族公开批评《摩纳哥王妃》是“胡闹”。
Citing the script and trailer, the Grimaldis, in an unusually blunt statement, said: “The princely family does not in any way wish to be associated with this film which reflects no reality and regrets that its history has been misappropriated for purely commercial purposes.”
格里马尔迪家族在声明中引用了剧本和预告片中的部分内容，并以罕见的生硬口吻说：“王室不想以任何方式与这部与事实不符的电影联系在一起，并对该片为了纯粹的商业目的而歪曲家族历史的做法表示遗憾。”
Speaking last week, Mr. Pogam said he had been entirely willing to screen “Grace of Monaco” for the son and daughters of Princess Grace, who died following a car crash in 1982 (while Prince Rainier died 23 years later). “We’ve always been trying to show it,” he said, though no family screening was ever set.
勒波甘上周说，他完全愿意为格蕾丝王妃的儿女们放映《摩纳哥王妃》。格蕾丝王妃在1982年因车祸去世（兰尼埃王子23年后去世）。“我们一直想展示它，”他说。不过目前还没有定下为该王室放映的计划。
While the princely heirs now appear unlikely to soften their stance, Mr. Weinstein last week put aside at least some of his objections. That happened mostly, said the people briefed on his plans, out of regard for the powerful Creative Artists Agency, which brokered the rights agreements, and for Ms. Kidman, with whom the Weinstein company is involved via its recently released “The Railway Man,” and a forthcoming film, “Paddington.”
王室后裔们现在似乎不可能软化他们的立场，温斯坦则在上周至少部分放弃了他的反对意见。了解他计划的人说，这主要是考虑到促成版权协议的强大的创新艺术家公司(Creative Artists Agency)和基德曼。温斯坦公司和基德曼在最近上映的《铁路劳工》(The Railway Man)和即将上映的《帕丁顿熊》(Paddington)中都有合作。
But there has also been discussion of a sharp reduction in the $5 million Weinstein had initially agreed to pay for rights to “Grace of Monaco.” For roughly half that amount, the company is now likely to release Mr. Dahan’s film — which, executives say, incorporates some of Mr. Weinstein’s earlier editorial suggestions — probably in August or September. How widely the film will be shown, and whether it has the sizzle of an awards-worthy release, however, will depend, in part, on its reception at Cannes.
但是双方正在协商大幅减少温斯坦最初同意支付的500万美元《摩纳哥王妃》的版权费。该公司可能只会支付一半的钱，在8月份或9月份上映该片——主管们说，这个版本包括温斯坦之前的一些剪辑建议。不过，这部电影将在多大范围内上映，是否会产生获奖影片上映的轰动效果，仍将部分取决于它在戛纳电影节上的受欢迎程度。
Was the movie damaged by the tiff, which triggered a flurry of reports, including an extensive account in The Los Angeles Times?
这个争执是否对该片造成了负面影响？这个争执引发了很多报道，包括《洛杉矶时报》的一个详细报道。
“Not a bit, not a bit,” said David Glasser, Weinstein’s president, who responded in Mr. Weinstein’s behalf to some questions about the film. After all, controversy of one sort or another has simply brought more attention to many Weinstein films, including “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” which took in $117 million at the United States box office last year, after a sharp dispute between Weinstein and Warner Bros. over rights to its title.
“一点都没有，”温斯坦公司的总裁大卫·格拉瑟(David Glasser)说。他代表温斯坦回答关于这部电影的问题。毕竟，这样那样的争议反倒让温斯坦的很多电影获得了更多关注，包括《白宫管家》(Lee Daniels’ The Butler)——去年在温斯坦和华纳兄弟因该片的命名权发生尖锐的争执之后，它在美国获得了1.17亿美元的票房收入。
Most of the bumps will be smoothed over at Cannes.
大部分的冲突在戛纳平息。
Gaumont, said Mr. Le Pogam, is planning a Wednesday night bash — designed to match the mood and stylings of the 1960s — near the Croisette.
勒波甘说，高蒙公司计划周三晚上在克鲁瓦塞特大道附近举行一个有冲击力的首映式——会具有20世纪60年代的情调和风格。
Ms. Kidman and Mr. Roth are both expected. Ms. Kidman, who is flying in from Australia, where she has been working on a thriller called “Strangerland,” is expected to stick around for several days, doing interviews and getting her film back on track.
基德曼和罗思都会出席。基德曼将从澳大利亚飞来，她在那里拍摄一部名叫《异乡》(Strangerland)的惊悚片。她有可能在戛纳待几天，接受采访，让她的电影重上正轨。
Mr. Weinstein and associates will also join the party.
温斯坦和他的同事也会出席首映仪式。
“We’ll be there in full support,” Mr. Glasser said. “A good film is a good film.”
“我们会去那里全力支持，”格拉瑟说，“好电影就是好电影。”
And if the Grimaldis care to drop down from Monaco, which is, after all, just up the coast, would they still be welcome?
如果格里马尔迪家族愿意前来——毕竟摩纳哥就在海岸线沿岸——他们还会受到欢迎吗？
“Of course,” Mr. Le Pogam said. “Of course!”
“当然，”勒波甘说，“当然！”