The war to drive the Islamic State from its last strongholds in western Mosul has come to this: With every advance by Iraqi forces, every missile rained down by coalition aircraft, a flood of Iraqi civilians hits the streets.
将伊斯兰国(Islamic State)赶出它位于摩苏尔西部的最后据点的战争已经发展到这一步：伊拉克军队每前进一步，联军的飞机每投下一颗导弹，就有一批伊拉克平民要露宿街头。
It is no longer a question of waiting between salvos — there are few, if any, breaks that make it obvious when to run, so the people of Mosul are simply running whenever they can.
已经不存在等待轰炸间隙的问题——看起来明显可以用来逃命的间隙少之又少，可以说没有，所以摩苏尔人只要能跑就随时会跑。
As we traveled with Iraqi special forces deep in western Mosul last week, in the mostly residential Mosul Jidideh neighborhood, we saw desperate families start out right at daybreak. Families carried their young children and propped up their aging relatives, and they all moved as quickly as they could along streets where the sounds of battle were all too close: a cacophony of gunfire, the dull thud of mortar rounds, the deafening roar of Islamic State car bombs and American airstrikes.
上周当我们和伊拉克特种部队行至摩苏尔西部深处，来到大多为摩苏尔吉迪德赫(Mosul Jidideh)居民的地区时，我们看到孤注一掷的家庭天刚亮就出发。他们带着年幼的孩子，扶着年老的亲人，全都尽可能快地沿着交火之声近在咫尺的街道移动：杂乱的枪声、迫击炮弹的闷响，还有伊斯兰国的汽车炸弹和美国空袭那震耳欲聋的轰鸣。
Nearly everyone frantically asked which way was safe for them to flee. One route forced people to file past a destroyed building on the corner of the square where fighters with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, had been targeted the night before. One of the militants lay visible in the rubble near the crowd of silent refugees, his crumpled body almost camouflaged among the stone and twisted metal.
几乎所有人都在发疯地询问往哪个方向逃是安全的。其中一条路必须绕过广场角落里一栋已被毁坏的建筑，也就是伊斯兰国（也被称为ISIS或ISIL）武装分子前天晚上遭到袭击的地方。离这些沉默的难民不远的瓦砾堆里，躺着一名武装分子，他扭曲的尸体几乎被石块和弯曲的金属掩盖。
In their state of anxious flight, many didn’t even notice the corpse. But occasionally, children would gawk in horror as they were whisked past by elder siblings and parents.
在惊慌的逃亡之中，许多人甚至没有注意到那具尸体。但偶尔有儿童在被兄姐和父母带着匆匆走过时，会恐惧地盯着他看。
Around a half-million people are still thought to be trapped in an ever-shrinking area of the city along with an estimated 2,000 remaining Islamic State fighters. There, they are caught in a frightening crossfire. As Iraqi forces have advanced, American airstrikes have at times leveled entire blocks — including the one in Mosul Jidideh this month that residents said left as many as 200 civilians dead. At the same time, the Islamic State fighters have used masses of civilians as human shields, and have been indiscriminate about sniper and mortar fire.
据信有大约50万人依然被困在这个城市中一个范围不断缩小的区域，同时待在那里的还有大约2000名剩余的伊斯兰国武装分子。这些平民被困在令人恐惧的火力网之中。在伊拉克部队向前迈进之时，美国的空袭时不时将整个街区夷为平地——其中包括摩苏尔吉迪德赫社区本月遭遇的那场，居民们表示有多达200个平民在这次轰炸中丧生。与此同时，伊斯兰国武装分子还将大批平民用作人肉盾牌，用来对付一切袭击，不管是来自狙击手，还是迫击炮。
Near one position held by Iraqi forces, this woman screamed out in horror after the loss of her son in an ISIS mortar attack, right on her doorstep.
在伊拉克部队控制的区域附近，这名女子发出惊恐的尖叫，她的儿子刚刚在伊斯兰国的迫击炮袭击中丧生，就倒在自家门口。
Nearby, neighbors loaded those wounded in the same attack into the back of a small truck, hoping to get them to a first-aid station.
不远处，邻居们把在同一场袭击中受伤的人抬进一辆小卡车的车斗里，希望能把他们送到一个急救站。
The Islamic State’s seemingly endless supply of car bombs has taken a fearsome toll in the battle. As we moved with the Iraqi troops into the neighborhood of Shuhada, scenes of immense destruction and the acrid smell of explosives bore testament to the fierce battle that had taken place the day before between Iraqi special forces and the militants.
在这场战斗中，伊斯兰国似乎无穷无尽的汽车炸弹造成了骇人的伤亡。在我们随着伊拉克部队进入舒达哈(Shuhada)社区时，严重的毁坏和爆炸物留下的刺鼻味道，是伊拉克特种部队和武装分子前一天发生激烈战斗的证明。
And then, another blast, close to us. This car bomb had actually failed to detonate after being abandoned by its driver. The explosion was from a coalition airstrike called in to remove it as a threat.
接着，又是一场爆炸，就在离我们不远的地方。在司机弃车而逃之后，这个汽车炸弹实际上并没有引爆。爆炸源自盟军的空袭，这是应要求而进行的袭击，以解除它的威胁。
On the corner of a main square in Shuhada, we found an ISIS car bomb that had partly detonated. The front part of the armored vehicle was a burned-out mess, but the back was still loaded with explosive canisters.
在舒哈达一个主广场的角落里，我们发现了一个已经部分引爆的伊斯兰国汽车炸弹。这辆装甲车的前半部分已被炸毁，但后面还装着一罐罐爆炸物。
The charred and severed body of a suicide car bomber whose vehicle had failed to fully detonate sat on the corner of an intersection beside his half-destroyed vehicle. Another body of an Islamic State fighter sat in the middle of the road, splayed out on a wooden cart.
一名实施自杀式汽车炸弹袭击的武装分子被炸裂和烧焦的尸体落在一个十字路口的角落，前方停着他驾驶的部分被毁的车辆——这个炸弹也没有完全引爆。另一名伊斯兰国武装分子的尸体落在路中央，摊在一辆木制手推车上。
With heavy ordnance going off all around, Iraq’s specialized counterterrorism forces have been tasked with painstakingly clearing neighborhoods like Mosul Jidideh.
在重型火炮在各处响起之时，伊拉克的特种反恐部队也接到任务，要艰难地清剿摩苏尔吉迪德赫等社区的武装分子。
The Islamic State is not giving up ground quickly, and seems to be able to mount counterattacks everywhere.
伊斯兰国没有很快放弃自己的阵地，似乎能在各处发起反击。
After one car bomb disabled two Iraqi special forces vehicles, ISIS snipers hidden nearby began shooting at the soldiers. Some Iraqi commandos raced up to the top of a tall building nearby, and it suddenly became a battle for the rooftops that lasted for hours.
在两辆伊拉克特种部队车辆遭到一个汽车炸弹袭击无法开动之后，隐藏在附近的伊斯兰国狙击手开始朝车上的士兵射击。一些伊拉克突击队员迅速赶到附近一座高楼的顶部，由此突然演变成一场持续数个小时的屋顶之战。
The accounts of losses within families are grim. Mohammed Hamed, 5, and his sister Amina, 4, were hastily buried together in a shallow grave in the courtyard of a school in Mosul Jidideh. They were hurt at home by an airstrike that struck Islamic State positions at a nearby house, the family said, and died hours after the blast because the family was unable to reach medical help.
有关家庭伤亡的情况令人沮丧。5岁的穆罕默德·哈米德(Mohammed Hamed)和他4岁的妹妹阿明娜(Amina)被一起匆匆埋在一个浅浅的坟墓中，地点在摩苏尔吉迪德赫一所学校的院子里。这家人表示，他们是在家中被一次空袭所伤，空袭的目标是附近一所房子里的伊斯兰国武装人员，由于无法获得医救，他们在爆炸发生几小时后死去。
Friends and family members struggled to dig a hole big enough for their tiny bodies, interrupted by a sudden and terrifying new round of airstrikes nearby.
朋友和家人艰难地挖出一个足够容纳他们小小尸体的坑，中间曾被附近突然发生的新一轮可怕的空袭打断。
After the rushed burial, their mother, Amira, stood and waved at the grave, saying over and over: “Goodbye, my children! Travel safely to God!” The family quickly set out for the safety of a camp outside the city.
在仓促而就的葬礼结束后，他们的母亲阿米拉(Amira)站着对那座坟墓挥手，一遍又一遍地说道：“再见，孩子们！要安全到达神那里！”之后，这家人很快出发，前往城外的一个难民营避难。
Within Mosul Jidideh, the grinding nature of the fighting stood out. At every corner there seemed to be some fresh wreckage or rubble.
在摩苏尔吉迪德赫社区里，战争让人难以忍受的本质突显在眼前。每个角落似乎都有一些新造成的废墟和瓦砾。
Last week, after all that had happened in Mosul Jidideh, Iraqi forces said they had nearly cleared the last pockets of Islamic State fighters from the neighborhood. But it is just one of many in western Mosul, and the toll here is staggering.
上周，在摩苏尔吉迪德赫经历所有这一切之后，伊拉克部队表示他们基本已将最后一些伊斯兰国武装分子从这个社区清除。但它只是摩苏尔西部许多社区中的一个，而此中的代价大得让人难以置信。
Even if a government triumph finally and permanently comes to this district, it will forever be the place where coalition airstrikes killed dozens of people seeking safety; where families left so many dead behind while fleeing the terror of ISIS; where victory looked like destruction.
即便政府最终在这一地区取得永久性的胜利，它也永远是盟军空袭导致数十名寻求安全的人丧生的地方；是一个众多家庭在逃离伊斯兰国的恐怖力量时将无数死去的亲人留在身后的地方；是一个就连成功看起来也像是毁灭的地方。