TOKYO — In late February, officials from city libraries contacted the police after discovering that hundreds of copies of “Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl” had been defaced. Media reports included an awful picture: a torn photograph of the girl smiling in a mutilated book. No culprit has been identified, but the rash of vandalism seemed to begin around the time, in January, that a member of the ultranationalist group Zaitokukai marched in a rally with a Nazi flag over his shoulders.
东京——今年2月底，多家市立图书馆发现，共有数百本《安妮日记》(Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl)遭到损毁，于是管理层通知了警方。媒体报道中配有一张可怕的图片：在一本破损的书中，安妮微笑的照片被撕裂。罪魁祸首尚未找到，但接二连三的恶意损毁事件似乎始于1月的某个时段，也就是极端民粹主义团体“在特会”(Zaitokukai)的一名男性成员肩扛纳粹旗帜出现在集会游行的时候。
The invocation of Nazi symbols by Japanese right-wingers is a new phenomenon. During the Cold War they focused their hatred on the U.S.S.R. and communism; now, they have shifted their attention to China, South Korea and, increasingly, the United States. Brandishing the flag of Japan’s wartime ally is a roundabout way for right-wingers to laud Japan’s imperialist past. Presumably, the defacement of those copies of Anne Frank’s diary was an expression of the same sentiment.
日本右翼举出纳粹标识是一种新现象。冷战期间，右翼将自身的仇恨集中在苏联及共产主义身上；现在，他们把注意力转移到了中国和韩国那里，并且日益对准了美国。挥舞日本战时盟友的旗帜是右翼歌颂日本军国主义历史的迂回做法。可以想见，损毁《安妮日记》的行为也是类似情绪的表达。
In my view, it was also a symptom of something broader. Over the past few decades, Japan has developed a mechanism to avoid facing up to its wartime history: It has neutralized issues that are too painful to deal with by rendering them purely aesthetic, and harmless — by making them “cute.” But that strategy no longer seems to be working.
在我看来，这还体现了存在更为广泛的一种思潮。过去几十年里，日本形成了回避战时历史的机制：把面对起来过于痛苦的事物中性化，将它们渲染成纯美学的无害之物——让它们“可爱”起来。不过，这种策略似乎不再凑效。
The word kawaii, meaning cute or adorable, became central to a certain strand of Japanese culture in the 1980s, as changes in the social and political climate stripped conventional father figures of the authority they had possessed until the 1960s. Cuteifying something was a way of making oneself its protector, rendering it powerless in a nonadversarial manner. One famous example took place in 1988, when high-school girls reportedly remarked that the dying Hirohito was kawaii, making a nonissue of his responsibility for the war. Hello Kitty, the white cat with a pink bow on her ear, is the ultimate embodiment of Japan’s cute culture: She has no background and no mouth. She represents the impulse to escape history and to stop talking about it.
意为可爱的日文“卡哇伊”(kawaii)成为上世纪80年代某一部分日本文化的核心。当时，社会与政治气候的变化剥夺了直至60年代仍保有的传统父权形象。将事物可爱化是一种让自身成为它保护者的方式，以一种温和的姿态渲染它的无力。一个著名的案例发生在1988年。据报道，一群高中女生形容病危的裕仁天皇(Hirohito)“卡哇伊”，将他的战争责任一笔勾销。耳朵上装饰了粉色蝴蝶结的白色猫咪Hello Kitty是日本可爱文化的终极象征：她没有过去也没有嘴，代表的是逃避历史三缄其口的冲动。
A few years ago, I published an essay called “Goodbye Godzilla, Hello Kitty” in which I argued that Godzilla was a symbol of Japan’s war dead who were returning to vent their rage at having been forgotten. When he was first created in 1954, Godzilla was frightening: He rose from the sea and, following roughly the same path as the B-29s that had firebombed the city in 1945, destroyed a Tokyo that was only just being rebuilt. But over the course of 50 years and 28 films, Godzilla first became just another monster and then he was domesticated — cast as a comical, doting father. In a word, he was cuteified.
几年前，我发表了一篇名为《哥斯拉再见、Kitty你好》(Goodbye Godzilla, Hello Kitty)的文章。我在文中提出，哥斯拉象征着日本的战争亡灵重返人间发泄对遭到遗忘的不满。1954年创作出来的时候，哥斯拉令人胆寒：从海中升起，基本沿着1954年B-29轰炸东京的相同路径，摧毁了这座刚刚重建的城市。然而，经过50年的28部电影，哥斯拉先是演化为稀疏平常的怪物，后又被驯化——被塑造成一名滑稽的慈父。简而言之，变可爱了。
Japan has also cuteified Anne Frank.
日本也将安妮·弗兰克改造成了可爱的形象。
In January, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz ran an article exploring Anne Frank’s popularity in Japan. It drew on an interview with Alain Lewkowicz, a French journalist and the creator of an interactive iPad app called “Anne Frank in the Land of Manga,” a comic strip laden with photographs and interviews. Anne Frank’s story is unusually popular in Japan. But instead of being known for her denunciation of the Holocaust or the warning she offers against racism, Mr. Lewkowicz argues that, in Japan, Anne Frank “symbolizes the ultimate World War II victim” and that most Japanese see themselves that way, too, because of the American atomic bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Japan is a victim, he contends, “never a perpetrator.”
今年1月，以色列媒体《国土报》(Haaretz)刊登了一篇探讨安妮·弗兰克为何在日本受欢迎的文章，以对法国记者阿兰·卢科维奇(Alain Lewkowicz)的采访为主。卢科维奇推出了名为“安妮·弗兰克在动漫之国”(Anne Frank in the Land of Manga)的互动式iPad应用，用各种图片和访谈来呈现一本连环漫画。安妮·弗兰克的故事在日本格外流行。卢科维奇提出，安妮·弗兰克在这里出名并不是源于谴责纳粹大屠杀或是她带来的消除种族主义的警示，而是因为在日本，她“象征着二战的终极受害者”，而多数日本人也这样看自己，理由是美国向广岛和长崎投掷了核弹。他认为，日本自认为是受害者，“从未作恶”。
Mr. Lewkowicz suggests that the Japanese can share this “kinship of victims” with European Jews because so many people, especially the young, are astonishingly ignorant of Japan’s actions during World War II. As Mr. Lewkowicz put it to Haaretz, they “don’t think of the countless Anne Franks their troops created in Korea and China during the same years.”
卢科维奇指出，日本人之所以能与欧洲犹太人建立“同为受害人的关联”，是因为太多人，尤其是年轻人对日本二战时期所作所为的无知，程度令人难以置信。正如卢科维奇对《国土报》说的，他们“不会想到，同一时间自己的军队在朝韩和中国制造了无数的安妮·弗兰克。”