Although airplane cockpits are supposed to be the last line of defense from outside aggressors, airlines have fewer options if the threat comes from within.
飞机驾驶舱本应是针对外来入侵者的最后一道防线，但如果威胁来自舱内，航空公司能做的就不多了。
By apparently locking the captain out of the cockpit before a German jet crashed Tuesday, the co-pilot appears to have taken advantage of one of the major safety protocols instituted after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that turned cockpits into fortresses.
目前看来，于周二坠毁的一架德国飞机的驾驶员，在失事前被副驾驶锁在了舱外，这名副驾驶显然利用了2001年9月11日袭击事件后实施的一项重要安全规范——将飞机驾驶舱变成一座坚不可摧的堡垒。
And the crash is already raising questions about possible gaps in how airlines review the mental health of their pilots.
此次失事已经令人开始怀疑，航空公司对飞行员精神健康状况的评估工作可能存在不足。
The crash, which killed all 150 people aboard the Germanwings Airbus A320, highlights a major difference between European and American flight deck procedures. The Federal Aviation Administration mandates that a flight attendant must sit in the cockpit when either pilot steps into the passenger area; European regulations do not have a similar two-person rule.
这架德国之翼(Germanwings)空客A320机上的150人无一生还，事故突显了欧洲和美国驾驶舱规程的一个重大差异。美国联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）规定，当两名驾驶员中的一名进入乘客区时，需要有一名空乘坐在驾驶舱内；欧洲空管方面没有类似的两人规则。
Responding to the glaring safety breach, several foreign airlines, including Air Canada, Norwegian Air Shuttle and easyJet, said Thursday that they would immediately institute a two-person rule in the cockpit.
面对如此明显的安全漏洞，包括加拿大航空公司(Air Canada)、挪威航空(Norwegian Air Shuttle)和易捷航空(EasyJet)在内的多家外国航空公司在周四表示会立即实施驾驶舱内的两人规则。
“It is shocking to me that there was not a second person present in the cockpit,” said Mark Rosenker, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board.
“驾驶舱内居然没有第二人在场，这让我十分震惊，”前美国国家运输安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)主席马克·罗森克(Mark Rosenker)说。
Access to the cockpit is strictly regulated in the United States. Passengers are not allowed to congregate near the cockpit door, and whenever the door is open, no one is allowed in the forward bathroom and flight attendants usually block aisle access, sometimes using a food cart.
在美国，驾驶舱的进出是受到严格管制的。乘客不允许在驾驶舱门附近聚集，在舱门打开时，任何人都不能使用飞机前部的卫生间，空乘通常会挡住走道——有时候会用餐车。
But the two-person rule did not come about out of a concern of having to deter or fend off a rogue pilot. Rather, the thinking was to never leave a pilot alone in case of illness or incapacitation.
然而，制定两人规则的初衷并非吓阻或制止行为不轨的驾驶员。它的意图是在驾驶员遇到疾病或突发性机能丧失的情况下，一定不会孤身一人在驾驶舱内。
And while a small percentage of American pilots carry guns, the two-person rule is still not a fail-safe against a rogue pilot, experts say.
专家说，虽然美国民航驾驶员中有一小部分人会携带枪支，但面对行为不轨的驾驶员，两人规则并非一种完美的保障措施。
The Germanwings accident also points to potential shortcomings in how pilots are screened for mental problems, a recurring concern for an industry that demands focus and discipline in an increasingly technical job, often in stressful situations.
此次德国之翼坠毁事件还暴露了驾驶员精神问题审查机制上可能存在的缺陷，在这个十分看重专注度和纪律性的行业里，这方面的担忧由来已久。飞机驾驶员是一个技术性越来越强的工种，而且往往要面临巨大压力。
“I think that this incident is going to have a profound effect on the industry and how pilots are screened on an ongoing basis and what they are screened for,” said Peter Goelz, a former managing director at the National Transportation Safety Board.
“我认为这次事故会给业内带来深远影响，关系到我们如何持续审查驾驶员，以及在哪些方面审查驾驶员，”前运输安全委员会执行主任彼得·戈尔兹(Peter Goelz)说。
While the issue of pilot health has been a longstanding concern in the industry, detecting psychological problems can be a major challenge, Mr. Rosenker said.
罗森克说，驾驶员健康问题一直是业内十分关切的，但心理问题的检测是一个大难题。
In 2012, a well-regarded pilot with JetBlue, one of the airline’s earliest employees, was physically restrained by passengers on a flight from New York to Las Vegas after displaying erratic behavior. In that case, the co-pilot locked the pilot out of the cabin and made an emergency landing in Amarillo, Tex.
2012年，捷蓝航空(JetBlue)的一名驾驶员在从纽约飞往拉斯维加斯的航班上举止异常，随后被乘客控制住，这名驾驶员口碑甚佳，是最早加入公司的员工之一。在那起事件中，副驾驶员将驾驶员锁在舱外，而后将飞机紧急迫降在德克萨斯州埃默里洛。
Afterward, David Barger, the airline’s chief executive at the time, described the pilot as a “consummate professional.”
捷蓝航空首席执行官戴维·巴杰尔(David Barger)后来称那位驾驶员是一个“技艺高超的专业人士”。
“I’ve known the captain personally for a long period of time,” Mr. Barger said, “and there’s been no indication of this at all.”
“我跟机长有多年的私交，”巴杰尔说，“完全看不出他能做出这种事。”
Said Mr. Rosenker, “You are dealing with humanity, with human frailty, with the human mind.”
罗森克说，“这是在跟人性、人的弱点、人的心思打交道。”
Officials at Germanwings and its parent company, Lufthansa, seemed to grapple with this issue on Thursday in trying to explain the incomprehensible.
面对此事的种种不解之处，德国之翼及其母公司汉莎航空(Lufthansa)的官员在周四显得很尴尬。
“We have no indication what could have led the co-pilot to commit this terrible act,” Carsten Spohr, Lufthansa’s chief executive, said at a news conference. “Such an isolated act can never be completely ruled out. The best system in the world can’t stop it.”
“我们没有发现任何迹象表明副驾驶员会有如此可怕的举动，”汉莎航空首席执行官卡斯滕·施波尔(Carsten Spohr)在新闻发布会上说。“像这样的个别行为是不可能完全避免的。世上最好的系统也无法阻止它。”
The co-pilot, a 27-year-old German identified as Andreas Lubitz, apparently enjoyed his job and had passed all certification tests and medical exams. “He was 100 percent flightworthy without any limitations,” Mr. Spohr said.
经确认，这名副驾驶员是现年27岁的德国人安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)，看上去他很喜欢这份工作，也通过了所有的考核和体检。“他是百分之百具备飞行条件的，没有任何不足，”施波尔说。
In the United States, pilots are screened for medical and psychological issues before being hired, and are randomly tested afterward for drug and alcohol use. They must undergo medical examinations once a year if they are under 40, and twice after that, to keep their certification with the F.A.A.
在美国，飞机驾驶员受聘前要接受身体和心理检查，此后还要随机接受毒品和酒精检测。要想保住FAA颁发的证书，不到40岁的驾驶员每年要接受一次体检，40岁以后每年两次。