After ricocheting from subject of sympathy to target of vitriol by millions of Chinese Internet users who had seen photographs of him hitting a woman pedestrian with his scooter, a foreign resident of Beijing has been detained, fined and now faces deportation. It was just the latest case of the whirlwind rush to judgment and a tendency to stake out extremes frequently seen in Chinese cyberspace.
一位在北京居住的外国人骑摩托车撞倒一名步行妇女的照片被传到网上后，数百万中国网民先是对他表示同情，后转变为严厉批评，这位外国人已被拘留、罚款，现在面临被驱逐出境。这是中国互联网上常常能看到的人们匆匆下结论和采取极端立场趋势的一个最新例子。
On Dec. 3, Chinese across the country were riveted by the images online that showed a Chinese woman in a long black coat clinging to a scooter and seemingly arguing with a young foreigner, whose nationality and age have not been disclosed, in the streets of Beijing.
12月3日，中国各地的人都被网上的一组照片所吸引，在这组照片中，一位穿着黑色长外套的中国妇女在北京街头抓住一辆摩托车不放，她似乎在与一位年轻的外国人争吵，这位外国人的国籍和年龄不详。
“This young foreign fellow tried to help her when she fell down, but she claimed he knocked her down and wouldn’t let go until the foreigner paid her 1,800 renminbi” — about $300 — “in ‘medical fees’,” read the description accompanying the photos. The event seemed to conform to a familiar narrative in China, in which a person feigns a crippling injury in order to squeeze money out of an innocent passerby or even someone who has offered help. Soon the web was awash in comments condemning the woman.
照片附带的文字解释称，“老外街头扶摔倒大妈遭讹1800元‘医药费’。”这件事似乎符合中国常见的一种情形，有人假装受伤企图讹诈无辜路人、或者甚至是过来救助的人。互联网上很快充满了谴责这位妇女的声音。
“She brings disgrace to our nation”, said one. “Is money worth losing face for our entire nation in front of a foreigner?” asked another.
一个评论说，“丢了我们整个国家的脸。”另一个问道，“值得为点钱在外国人面前丢整个国家的脸吗？”
But within hours, public opinion reversed itself after the woman told her version of the story to newspapers and the police released surveillance footage. The footage showed the foreigner speeding on his scooter toward the pedestrian crossing and knocking the woman down, according to the Beijing Times.
但是仅在几个小时内，公众的看法就来了个180度大转弯，因为这位妇女把她的经历告诉了新闻媒体，而且警方公布了监控录像。据《京华时报》报道，录像显示该外国人骑摩托车快速行驶，在人行横道上将该女子撞倒。
Making matters worse for the foreigner’s case, a video shot by a passerby with a mobile phone was posted online that showed the man swearing at the woman in fluent Chinese for about three minutes. He was also seen trying to physically remove her from his scooter before bystanders pulled him away from her.
对这位外国人更不利的是，一名路人将用手机拍下的视频上传到了网上，视频显示，该国男子用流利的汉语辱骂那个妇女近三分钟。视频上还能看到他试图用力迫使妇女放开他的摩托车，直到路人把他从女子身边拉开。
The woman, later identified as a Ms. Li, said in a videotaped interview with the Beijing News that she almost “blacked out” from the impact. The interview was viewed more than one million times. “I have been a successful business woman my whole life. Why would I want to con 1,800 renminbi out of you?” she says, addressing the absent foreigner, while showing reporters photos of her injuries and medical report. She then bursts into tears and says, “I’m definitely pressing charges!”
根据《新京报》录制的一段采访视频，这位被称为李女士的妇女告诉该报，她当时被撞“晕了”。这段视频已被观看了超过100万次。“我做了一辈子生意。我讹诈你1000多块钱啊？”她对着没有出现在采访中的那个外国人说。她还给记者看了她受伤的照片以及医疗记录。后来，她哭着说到，“我非得告他。”
By the end of the day, the Beijing police had announced that not only had the foreigner knocked the woman down, but that he was riding the scooter without a license and the scooter had no license plate.
当天晚上，北京警方宣布，这位外国人不仅将那位妇女撞倒，而且他骑的摩托车没有上照，他本人也无摩托车驾驶执照。
On Wednesday, the police said that the foreigner and his father were both “illegally employed” in Beijing, and would be deported to their home countries, but not before serving 5 and 14 days respectively in detention, and paying fines of 5,000 and 10,000 renminbi. The company that employed them was fined 20,000 renminbi.
周三，警方称，该外国人和他的父亲在北京“非法工作”，将被遣返回国，遣返之前他们分别被拘留5天和14天，并分别被罚款5000和10000元人民币。雇佣他们的公司也被罚款2万元人民币。
“We are happy to see him go,” read one comment online.
一则网上评论说，“我们很高兴看他走。”
The photographer who posted the first set of photos and text made a public apology to Ms. Li via the Beijing Times. “I beg the forgiveness of Ms. Li, the netizens and everyone who was hurt by this incident.” 
那个最先向网上发布照片及解释文字的摄像者通过《京华时报》公开向李女士道歉。“尊敬的李阿姨、各位网友、以及此次事件中受到伤害的所有朋友：我深表歉意！”