The ouster of Bill O’Reilly, the top-rated cable news host, from Fox News capped an extraordinary period of upheaval at the company, marked by a series of sexual harassment allegations that resulted in the downfall of Roger E. Ailes, the powerful chairman of the network, as well as a damaging exodus of advertisers.
随着顶级有线电视新闻主持人比尔·奥莱利(Bill O'Reilly)遭到解雇，福克斯新闻(Fox News)一段时间以来的内部动荡达到了高潮。在这个极不寻常的动荡期内，一系列性骚扰指控导致了该电视网位高权重的董事长罗杰·E·艾尔斯(Roger E. Ailes)的下台，以及广告客户的严重流失。
Here is a look at the nine and a half months that shook the network:
让我们回顾一下，这家电视网在过去九个半月里受到了怎样的撼动：
JULY 6, 2016
2016年7月6日
Gretchen Carlson, a prominent Fox anchor, sends shock waves through the media world when she files a lawsuit against the Fox News chairman, Roger E. Ailes, accusing him of forcing her out after she refused his sexual advances and complained to him about persistent harassment in the newsroom.
福克斯知名主持人格蕾琴·卡尔森(Gretchen Carlson)状告福克斯新闻董事长罗杰·E·艾尔斯，在媒体界引发轰动。卡尔森指控艾尔斯在她拒绝其性要求，并向其控诉新闻编辑室内长期存在的骚扰问题之后将她开除。
Ms. Carlson’s charges included an allegation that Mr. Ailes, during a meeting in his office, explicitly asked her for a sexual relationship, a public attack on a towering figure in broadcast journalism and Republican politics who had typically enjoyed absolute loyalty from his employees.
卡尔森的指控中有这样一条：她在艾尔斯的办公室里开会期间，艾尔斯曾明确要求同她发生性关系。她以这些指控对广播新闻界和共和党政治圈子里的一个顶尖人物发起了公开的攻击，后者此前通常享有雇员的绝对忠诚。
JULY 20, 2016
2016年7月20日
The accusations do not stop with Ms. Carlson. The law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, hired by 21st Century Fox, the network’s owner, to investigate Ms. Carlson’s allegations, takes statements from at least six women who describe inappropriate behavior by Mr. Ailes, according to people briefed on the inquiry.
保罗–维斯–里夫金德–沃顿–加里森律师事务所(Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison)曾受福克斯新闻的母公司21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)之托，就卡尔森的指控展开调查。了解调查内情的人士称，该律所拿到了至少六名女性的证词，她们对艾尔斯的不当行为做了描述。
The details of the allegations are reportedly deemed troubling enough that they lead 21st Century Fox to begin planning the end of Mr. Ailes’s reign at Fox News.
据报道，这些指控的细节被认为足够令人不安，因此21世纪福克斯开始计划终结艾尔斯对福克斯新闻的统治。
JULY 21, 2016
2016年7月21日
Rupert Murdoch, the media mogul who started Fox News with Mr. Ailes, tells stunned employees in Fox’s Midtown Manhattan headquarters that Mr. Ailes is out as chairman and chief executive and that Mr. Murdoch himself will take over Fox News in the interim.
和艾尔斯一同创办福克斯新闻的媒体大亨鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)，在曼哈顿中城的福克斯总部告知震惊的员工，艾尔斯辞去董事长和首席执行官的职务，默多克本人将临时接管福克斯新闻。
Mr. Ailes walks away with about $40 million as part of a settlement agreement, which essentially amounts to the remainder of his contract through 2018.
作为和解协议的一部分，艾尔斯拿走了约4000万美元离职金，这基本相当于他在直到2018年的剩余合同期内能够拿到的报酬。
AUG. 12, 2016
2016年8月12日
Despite Mr. Murdoch’s pledges of a fresh start at the network, two veteran executives with deep ties to Mr. Ailes are named co-presidents of Fox News.
尽管默多克希望福克斯新闻能有一个新的开始，但两名和艾尔斯关系深厚的资深管理人员被任命为了联合总裁。
Bill Shine, an affable Ailes loyalist who is well liked by some of the network’s longest-serving anchors, is selected to oversee programming at Fox News and Fox Business Network. Jack Abernethy, a trusted Murdoch hand, is placed in charge of business operations, including finance and advertising sales.
忠于艾尔斯的比尔·夏恩(Bill Shine)为人和蔼可亲，颇受在福克斯新闻工作最久的一些主持人的喜爱，奉命主管福克斯新闻和福克斯商业新闻网(Business Network)的节目。默多克的可靠帮手杰克·阿伯内西(Jack Abernethy)，则被派去掌管包括财务和广告销售在内的商务运营。
SEPT. 6, 2016
2016年9月6日
21st Century Fox spends $20 million to settle the former anchor’s lawsuit. Specialists in employment law describe the payout as among the largest known settlements for a single-plaintiff sexual harassment suit.
21世界福克斯以2000万美元的代价，就前主持人所提起的诉讼达成和解。雇佣法专家称，就只有一个原告的性骚扰官司而言，这是已知的最大一笔和解费。
JAN. 3, 2017
2017年1月3日
Ms. Kelly, a bona fide Fox star who played a breakout role in the presidential campaign when she clashed with Donald J. Trump, leaves Fox months after releasing a book in which she described being sexually harassed by Mr. Ailes.
福克斯真正的明星主持人、因为在总统选举期间与唐纳德·J·特朗普起冲突而名声大噪的凯利(Kelly)离职。离职前的几个月，她出了一本书，其中提到了她被艾尔斯性骚扰的经历。
Ms. Kelly’s exit is so abrupt that it is announced on the day the network runs a full-page ad in The Wall Street Journal trumpeting the ratings of its prime-time lineup, with Ms. Kelly prominently pictured.
凯利的出走非常突然。消息宣布当天，福克斯还在华尔街日报上刊登了一个整版广告，夸赞其黄金时段节目的收视率，凯利的照片登在很显眼的位置。
It is later revealed that comments by Mr. O’Reilly about the sexual harassment allegations at the network, along with her deep skepticism about whether the network was truly committed to changing its culture, were factors in Ms. Kelly’s decision to leave Fox News for a new role at NBC News, according to two people familiar with the matter.
两名知情者称，后来大家才知道，促使凯利离开福克斯、加盟NBC新闻(NBC News)的因素包括：奥莱利就牵扯到福克斯新闻的性骚扰指控发表了某些言论；而且凯利深深地怀疑福克斯是否会真的致力于改变自己的文化。
APRIL 1, 2017
2017年4月1日
An investigation by The New York Times reveals that five women received payouts totaling about $13 million from Mr. O’Reilly or the company in exchange for agreeing not to pursue litigation or speak about their accusations of sexual harassment or other inappropriate behavior against him.
《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的调查显示，奥莱利或福克斯总计向指控他性骚扰或有其他不当行为的五名女性支付了约1300万美元，以换取她们同意不寻求以法律途径解决问题或者不谈论这些指控。
Two settlements had come after Mr. Ailes’s dismissal, when the company had said it would not tolerate behavior that “disrespects women or contributes to an uncomfortable work environment.”
艾尔斯被解职后，福克斯两度与人达成和解。他离职时该公司曾表示，不会容忍“不尊重女性或催生令人不快的工作氛围”的行为。
APRIL 6, 2017
2017年4月6日
After a groundswell of anger, fueled by social media, over the revelation of the harassment suits against Mr. O’Reilly, more than 50 companies pull their ads from his top-rated program, “The O’Reilly Factor.”
针对奥莱利的骚扰诉讼被曝光后，在社交媒体的推波助澜之下激起了极大的愤慨。超过50家公司随即撤销了投给奥莱利那个收视率超高的节目——《奥莱利实情》(The O'Reilly Factor)的广告。
APRIL 19, 2017
2017年4月19日
In a one-sentence statement, 21st Century Fox announces that Mr. O’Reilly, who had been away on vacation, will not return to Fox News, bringing an end to his two-decade reign as one of the most influential commentators in television. The move comes amid new allegations against him.
21世纪福克斯在一份只有一句话的声明中宣布，此前正在度假的奥莱利不会重返福克斯新闻，这名极具影响力的电视评论员在福克斯长达20年的职业生涯由此画上了句号。福克斯宣布这一消息时，他正面临新的指控。