TOKYO — Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, appears to have slowed efforts to expand the role of the military just days after announcing a reinterpretation of the country’s pacifist Constitution, a historic and controversial change.
东京——日本首相安倍晋三似乎已放缓了扩大军队作用的努力，而就在几天前，他曾宣布对日本和平宪法的新解读，那些变化是前所未有的，且富有争议。
The move against the changes comes as rare street protests in Tokyo and elsewhere have continued and after the release of a major opinion poll that showed a significant drop in his administration’s approval ratings since his decision.
放缓的举动是在罕见的街头抗议在东京以及全国各地持续不断之际做出的，做出这个举动之前，一个主要的民意调查显示，安倍晋三的决定出来后，对其政府的支持率显著下降。
The reinterpretation announced July 1 would free up Japan’s armed forces for the first time in six decades to take a more assertive role in the increasingly tense region. It would allow them to come to the aid of friendly countries under attack, for instance by shooting down a missile headed toward them.
7月1日宣布的重新解读将会是六十年来首次让日本军队在这个日益紧张的地区起更积极的作用。新解读将允许军队援助受到攻击的友好国家，比如用击落飞向那个国家的导弹的方式。
Parliament must still clear legal barriers to the constitutional reinterpretation by revising a number of laws, and local media had quoted unnamed members of Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party recently saying they had hoped the legislation could be passed as early as this fall. (Mr. Abe’s governing coalition enjoys a comfortable majority in both houses of Parliament, or the Diet.)
日本国会仍须修改几条法律来为重新解读宪法清除法律障碍，当地媒体曾引用不愿透露姓名的安倍晋三所在的自民党成员最近的话说，他们希望有关法律最早可在今年秋天通过。（安倍晋三的执政联盟在日本国会两院享有充裕的多数席位。）
But this week, a top adviser to Mr. Abe, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, suggested that the administration would move more slowly, taking about a year.
但本周，安倍晋三的高级顾问、内阁官房长官菅良英暗示，当局可能会更缓慢地行事，可能要用大约一年的时间。
Although he did not indicate if this was a change from an earlier timetable, he said “we would like to work on it in a deliberate and careful manner.”
虽然他没有表示这是否是对此前日程的修改，但是他说，“我们要用深思熟虑和谨慎的方式进行这项工作。”
He also suggested the poll numbers — which have been widely repeated in the media here — did not sway the government.
他还暗示，民意调查的结果没有影响政府，这些结果在此地媒体上被多次重复。
Still, Mr. Abe himself acknowledged in an interview with the country’s largest financial daily this week that the poll indicated a lackluster support for the plan and said he expected a long debate period to help build public acceptance.
不过，安倍晋三本人在本周接受日本最大的财经报纸采访时承认，民意调查结果显示，公众对修宪计划的支持程度不高，并说他预计将有一个较长的争论时期，以帮助增加公众的接受程度。
“Unfortunately, we cannot say that public is fully supportive,” he said in the interview with Nihon Keizai Shimbun. “Lawmakers will discuss the bills without haste in the Diet, then the public’s understanding will deepen.”
他在《日本经济新闻》的采访中说，“很遗憾，我们不能说公众完全支持这件事。立法者将在国会毫不匆忙地讨论有关法案，之后公众的理解将会加深。”
A poll conducted by the Yomiuri newspaper in the days after Mr. Abe’s plan was announced on Friday showed support for his administration fell to 48 percent, down nine percentage points from a similar survey last month.
安倍晋三的计划在上周五公布的几天后，读卖新闻进行了一项民意调查，结果显示对安倍政府的支持率降到48%，比上个月的一次类似调查结果低9个百分点。
The survey results underline the challenges the hawkish Mr. Abe faces as he seeks to win over a wary Japanese public, many of whom support the constitution’s restrictions on the military as a way of keeping Japan from again straying toward conflict after its devastating defeat in World War II. Mr. Abe has already had to scale back his plans because of pushback from some within his own party and a small Buddhist party that is a coalition partner.
民意调查的结果突显了鹰派的安倍晋三在试图赢得谨慎的日本公众的支持上所面临的挑战。日本的许多人支持宪法对军队的限制，把其作为防止日本在二战中遭受了毁灭性失败后，重蹈战争覆辙的方法。由于自己党派中一些人的抵制，以及属于执政联盟的一个佛教小党的抵制，安倍晋三已经对自己的方案有所缩减。
“We’ve seen pretty consistently that the majority of the public doesn’t support what the prime minister is trying to do in the realm of this significant and historic change in policy,” said Daniel Sneider, the associate director for research at Stanford University’s Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center.
斯坦福大学舒思深亚太研究中心副主任丹尼尔·施奈德(Daniel Sneider)说，“我们相当一致地看到，大多数公众不支持首相在这个重要的历史性政策修改领域试图做的事情。”
“It’s a dangerous game he’s playing, but he’s determined to do this,” Mr. Sneider added.
施奈德补充说，“他在玩一个危险的游戏，但他执意要做下去。”