BANGKOK — With a buzzer installed in her house to summon her servants and a royal title that helps secure choice tables at Bangkok restaurants, Malinee Chakrabandhu is a bona fide member of the Thai aristocracy.
曼谷——玛利尼·扎格攀(Malinee Chakrabandhu)可以在家中用电铃召唤仆人，还能凭借自己的王室头衔在曼谷的餐厅订到最好的位子。她是纯正的泰国贵族。
She is also a self-described “black sheep” of her family, a champion of elections at a time when many in Thailand’s upper classes are calling for the overthrow of the government and a suspension of democracy.
在对自己的描述中，她是家族里的“异类”。泰国上层社会的许多人正在呼吁推翻政府、搁置民主，她却支持大选。
“My daughter would like to shut me up,” Ms. Malinee, 66, said in an interview in her living room, decorated with family photos of Thailand’s king and other members of the royal family. “I told her, ‘If you don’t care about poor people, that’s fine. You can remain with the rich.’ ”
现年66岁的玛利尼在起居室接受采访时说，“我女儿想让我闭嘴。”在她的起居室里可以看到泰王及其他王室成员的家庭照。“我告诉她，‘如果你不关心穷人，没问题。你可以继续和富人待在一起’。”
Thailand’s protracted political crisis, so severe that some analysts are warning of a civil war, is a power struggle between a political movement that has won every election since 2001 and an opposition that says the governing party represents a “dictatorship of the majority.” Both sides say that if elections are held Sunday as planned, the governing party will almost certainly win again.
泰国旷日持久的政治危机已非常严重，以至于一些分析人士正警告称，泰国可能爆发内战。这次的政治危机是一个政治集团和反对派之间的权力之争。该政治集团在2001年以来的大选中从未失利。反对派称，执政党代表着“多数派的独裁。”双方都认为，如果周日的选举如期举行，执政党毫无疑问会再次取胜。
Broadly speaking, the crisis has also polarized the country between north and south, between old money and new money, and between Bangkok and the provinces.
总的来说，这场危机令泰国的北方和南方、旧富和新贵，以及曼谷和各省份之间对立起来。
But at the level of individual Thais, the splintering of society is more complicated, and more personal. Political battles are raging within families, between bosses and their employees, within university classrooms and among government agencies.
但是，在个人层面，泰国社会的分裂更加错综复杂，更具个体性。政治斗争正在家庭内部、老板和雇员之间、大学教室里，以及政府机构中如火如荼地进行着。
Even families at the very top of the country’s political hierarchy find themselves split. Abhisit Vejjajiva, the leader of the opposition Democrat Party, is allied with the protesters and is boycotting Sunday’s elections. His cousin Suranand Vejjajiva is a top adviser to Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, whose party is fighting to make sure the elections are held.
即使是泰国政界最高层的家族也四分五裂。反对党民主党(Democrat Party)领袖阿比西·维乍集瓦(Abhisit Vejjajiva)与抗议者结盟，正在抵制周日的大选。他的表亲素拉南达·维乍集瓦(Suranand Vejjajiva)是总理英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)的一名高级顾问，英拉的政党正在努力确保选举能够举行。
Ms. Malinee says that she has lived through plenty of turmoil in Thailand, including a number of military coups, and that the current impasse is “the worst situation I’ve seen in my life.”
玛利尼说，她在泰国经历过很多动荡，其中包括几次军事政变，目前的僵局是“我这辈子见过的最糟糕的局势”。
Political passions have caused a feud within her family — in one telling sign of it, she has blocked her four sisters on social media — and have left her besieged by criticism from opponents of the government.
政治热情在她家庭内部引发了不合——一个典型的例证是，她在社交媒体上拉黑了自己的四个姐妹——也让她遭到了反政府人士的炮轰。
When an article about Ms. Malinee appeared last week in a publication that supports the protesters, readers posted hundreds of biting and derogatory comments. In a country renowned for etiquette and politeness, such invective toward a member of the extended royal family was once unthinkable; now it illustrates how far the civility of public discourse has plunged in Thailand. Protesters of all stripes in recent years have freely employed coarse epithets, often to cheers from the crowd.
上周，支持抗议者的出版物上出现了一篇关于玛利尼的文章，引发了数百条中伤和诋毁性的读者评论。在一个以文明和礼仪著称的国家，对王族成员的猛烈抨击曾是不可思议的；如今，这些评论凸显出，泰国公共讨论中的礼貌教养程度已大幅下滑。近些年来，各个阵营的抗议者毫无顾忌地发表侮辱性的言辞，而台下的民众竟然常常为此喝彩。
Ms. Malinee, a direct descendant of Rama IV, a 19th-century king, says the protesters drove her to become more public about her views.
玛利尼是19世纪的泰国国王拉玛四世(Rama IV)的直系后裔。她说，因为这些抗议者，她更加想要公开表达自己的观点。
She resents that the protesters have shut down some parts of the city — “We also own the streets,” she says — and is angry that the leader of the protests, Suthep Thaugsuban, tells anyone who disagrees with the action to leave the city.
她对抗议者封锁城市部分区域的做法感到不满——她说，“我们也是街道的主人”。同样令她感到愤怒的是，抗议活动的领袖素贴·特素班(Suthep Thaugsuban)要求所有对抗议持反对意见的人离开曼谷。
Mr. Suthep has vowed to obstruct the elections, and wants to replace Parliament with an unelected council that would “reform” the country. Ms. Malinee describes it as a “council of dogs.”
素贴发誓要阻止选举，希望用一个不经选举产生的委员会取代议会，让该委员会对国家进行“改革”。玛利尼称该委员会是“狗组成的委员会”。
Last week, she went on television and lashed out at protesters for blocking elections, calling them “power-seeking thieves.”
上周，她走上电视，猛烈抨击抗议者阻碍选举，称他们是“谋求权力的窃贼”。
“We want to vote — we are all human beings here,” she said in the interview. “Everyone should be equal, street vendors and me — everyone.”
“我们希望投票——我们都是人，”她在采访中说，“人人都应平等，街头小贩和我，所有人都应该平等。”
Ms. Malinee, whose title is Mom Rajawongse, an esteemed signifier of royal ancestry, has an uninhibited personal style that has made her a fixture on the cocktail circuit in Bangkok. For an interview, she wore a T-shirt emblazoned with “Respect My Vote.”
玛利尼的头衔是Mom Rajawongse，该荣誉头衔是王室血统的象征。无拘无束的个人风格让玛利尼成了曼谷上流社交圈中的常客。 为了采访，她穿了一件T恤，上面显眼地写着“尊重我的选票”的字样。
Splits in other prominent families are playing out on national television and on social media. On Sunday, after protesters blocked several hundred thousand voters from casting ballots early, Ongart Klampaiboon, the deputy leader of the Democrat Party, told reporters that the government was being “hardheaded” in holding the elections and called the voting a “waste.” A few hours later, his brother, Sirote Klampaiboon, a prominent scholar with diametrically opposing views, went on television to denounce the blocking of voting as “political thuggery” and called the election the “victory of people who are against mob rule.”
其他显赫家族的内部分歧也展现在了全国性电视台和社交媒体上。周日，在抗议者阻止几十万选民提前投票后，民主党(Democrat Party)副主席翁阿·克兰派汶(Ongart Klampaiboon)告诉记者说，政府举行选举是“顽固”之举，称选举是“浪费”。几小时后，他的兄弟 、所持观点截然不同的学者西罗特·克兰派汶(Sirote Klampaiboon)走上电视，谴责阻止投票的行动是“政治暴行”，并称选举是“反对暴民统治的人的胜利”。
The feuding within Ms. Malinee’s family is in some ways more striking, though, because the views of the extended royal family are rarely discussed in Thailand — partly because of a law, interpreted broadly by the courts in recent years, that imposes a prison term on anyone who “defames, insults or threatens” the most senior members of the monarchy.
然而，玛利尼所在家族的内部争吵在某种程度上更引人注目，因为在泰国，王族的观点很少被论及，这部分是因为一部法律规定，任何人“诽谤、侮辱或威胁”王室高级成员都将被判入狱。近年来，法庭对该法律进行了广泛的解读。
Only one member of the immediate royal family has appeared to publicly take sides in the political crisis. Princess Chulabhorn Walailak, the youngest daughter of King Bhumibol Adulyadej, has posted photos of herself wearing what appeared to be the red-white-and-blue ornamentation favored by the protesters. A weekly newspaper called her the “princess of the great mass of the people,” a reference to a catchphrase of the protesters.
在这场政治危机中，似乎只有一名内围王室成员公开表明了自己的倾向。在普密蓬·阿杜德(Bhumibol Adulyadej)国王最小的女儿朱拉蓬·瓦莱拉(Chulabhorn Walailak)公主发的照片中，她似乎戴着抗议者喜欢的红白蓝饰品。一家周报称她是“人民大众的公主”，这个称呼与抗议者的一个口号有所关联。
In the color-coded shorthand of Thailand’s political crisis, Ms. Malinee describes herself as red, while the rest of her family is yellow.
说到泰国政治危机的色谱，玛利尼称自己是红色，而家里其他人是黄色。
Reds are often thought of as backers of the movement founded by the prime minister’s brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, a former prime minister who was deposed in a 2006 military coup. But the definition is shifting, and Ms. Malinee says she interprets red to mean a fighter for justice and support for poorer Thais.
红军成员常常被认为是现任总理的兄长他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)创建的政党的支持者。在2006年的一场军事政变中，前总理他信被免职。但这一定义正在发生变化，玛利尼称自己的理解是，红色意味着为正义奋斗以及对泰国穷人的支持。
To be “yellow” in Thailand traditionally means to strongly support the monarchy. Now, though, it has come to signify a more general mistrust of electoral democracy by those who feel trampled by the majority.
在泰国，成为“黄军”成员传统上意味着大力支持王室。但现在，黄色代表着那些觉得自己被多数派无视了的人，他们现在更普遍地不信任选举民主。
Ms. Malinee says she does not know Mr. Thaksin, beyond two encounters at public events, but she praises him for introducing universal health care and measures to help the provinces. As for the allegations that Mr. Thaksin had raised the level of corruption in the country, Ms. Malinee says graft was prevalent well before he became prime minister in 2001.
玛利尼表示，除了在公开活动上碰过两次面以外，自己不认识他信，但她对他信引入全民医疗保险以及帮助各省的举措表示赞扬。对于称他信导致泰国的腐败恶化的说法，玛利尼表示，早在他信2001年当上总理之前，贪腐问题就已很普遍了。
“And when you drive him away, corruption will remain,” she said on television last week.
“把他赶走，腐败问题依然存在，”她上周在电视上说。