Almost every culture has some variation on the saying, “rags to rags in three generations.” Whether it’s “clogs to clogs” or “rice paddy to rice paddy,” the message is essentially the same: Starting with nothing, the first generation builds a successful enterprise, which its profligate offspring then manage poorly, so that by the time the grandchildren take over, little value remains.
几乎每一种文化都有类似“富不过三代”这样的训诫。无论具体的说法有何差异，其传达的信息在本质上是相同的：第一代白手起家，构筑起一家成功的企业，但沉溺于享受的子女无心管理家族事业，等到孙辈接手时，这笔财富已消耗殆尽。
Much of society’s wealth is created by new enterprises, so the apparent implication of this folk wisdom is that economic inequality should be self-limiting. And for most of the early history of industrial society, it was.
社会中的很多财富都是新企业产生的。所以，这种民间智慧的明显含义是，经济的不平等应该是自限性的。在工业社会早期的大多数时间内，的确是这样。
But no longer. Inequality in the United States has been increasing sharply for more than four decades and shows no signs of retreat. In varying degrees, it’s been the same pattern in other countries.
但现在已经不再如此。美国的不平等程度在过去40多年极速加剧，而且没有任何缓和迹象。其他国家基本上也遵循这种模式，只是程度不同而已。
The economy has been changing, and new forces are causing inequality to feed on itself.
经济一直在变化，新的力量正在导致不平等现象形成自我加强的循环。
One is that the higher incomes of top earners have been shifting consumer demand in favor of goods whose value stems from the talents of other top earners. Because the wealthy have just about every possession anyone might need, they tend to spend their extra income in pursuit of something special. And, often, what makes goods special today is that they’re produced by people or organizations whose talents can’t be duplicated easily.
其一是，最富有的阶层正在凭借其较高的收入，转变消费者的需求，受青睐的商品的价值源自其他高收入者的才能。由于富人几乎拥有普通人可能需要的所有物品，他们往往花费其额外收入追寻一些独特的东西。而在很多时候，一件商品之所以独特，是因为它是由一些才能不易被复制的人或组织生产的。
Wealthy people don’t choose just any architects, artists, lawyers, plastic surgeons, heart specialists or cosmetic dentists. They seek out the best, and the most expensive, practitioners in each category. The information revolution has greatly increased their ability to find those practitioners and transact with them. So as the rich get richer, the talented people they patronize get richer, too. Their spending, in turn, increases the incomes of other elite practitioners, and so on.
有钱人不会随便选一位建筑师、艺术家、律师、整形外科医生、心脏专家或美容牙医。他们往往寻找每个服务类别中水平最高，收费最贵的从业者。信息革命极大地增强了他们发现这些从业者，并与之交易的能力。因此，随着富人越来越富有，他们惠顾的精英从业者也变得更加富有。他们的消费反过来又会提高其他行业精英的收入，依此类推。
More recently, rising inequality has had much impact on the political process. Greater income and wealth in the hands of top earners gives them greater access to legislators. And it confers more ability to influence public opinion through contributions to research organizations and political action committees. The results have included long-term reductions in income and estate taxes, as well as relaxed business regulation. Those changes, in turn, have caused further concentrations of income and wealth at the top, creating even more political influence.
再后来，日益加剧的不平等已经对政治进程产生了重大影响。高收入者掌握的高收入和财富使得他们有更多机会接触立法者。这种机会增强了他们向研究机构和政治行动委员会捐款，进而影响公众舆论的能力。其结果包括所得税和遗产税的长期削减，以及更加宽松的商业监管政策。这些变化反过来又造成收入和财富进一步向顶部集中，进而为富人带来更大的政治影响力。
By enabling the best performers in almost every arena to extend their reach, technology has also been a major driver of income inequality. The best athletes and musicians once entertained hundreds, sometimes thousands of people at one time, but they can now serve audiences of hundreds of millions. In other fields, it was once enough to be the best producer in a relatively small region. But because of falling transportation costs and trade barriers in the information economy, many fields are now dominated by only a handful of the best suppliers worldwide.
技术也是收入不平等的主要推动力之一，因为在几乎所有领域，最优秀的从业者往往可以依托技术的力量拓宽其服务范围。最优秀的运动员和音乐家过去在同一时间娱乐数百名，有时多达数千名受众，但他们现在可以同时服务亿万观众。在其他领域，过去只需要在相对很小的区域内，成为最好的生产商就够了。但由于在信息化的经济中，运输成本不断下降、贸易壁垒不断取消，许多领域现在已经被全球范围内为数不多的最佳供应商所控制。
Income concentration has changed spending patterns in other ways that widen the income gap. The wealthy have been spending more on gifts, clothing, housing, celebrations and other things simply because they have more money. Their extra spending has shifted the frames of reference that shape demand by others just below them, so these less wealthy people have been spending more, and so on, all the way down the income ladder. But because incomes below the top have been stagnant, the resulting expenditure cascades have made it harder for middle- and low-income families to make ends meet. Despite taking on huge amounts of debt, they’ve been unable to keep pace with community standards. Interest payments impoverish them while enriching their wealthy creditors.
此外，收入的集中化改变了消费模式，而这种改变往往会进一步扩大收入差距。富人一直在花费更多的钱购买礼品、服装、住房和庆典等商品或服务，原因仅仅是他们拥有更多钱。他们的额外支出改变了消费参照框架，从而重塑了收入相对较低群体的需求。于是，这些不那么富裕的人也增大了开支，这种效应在收入阶梯上持续向下延伸，一直到收入最低的阶层。但由于顶部以下的收入一直停滞不前，这种“逐级拉高支出”的效应使得中低收入家庭更容易入不敷出。即使背上了巨额债务，但他们依然无法跟上社区的消费标准。偿付的利息让他们变得更加贫困，同时让富裕的债权人变得更加富有。
But perhaps the most important new feedback loop shows up in higher education. Tighter budgets in middle-class families make it harder for them to afford the special tutors and other environmental advantages that help more affluent students win admission to elite universities. Financial aid helps alleviate these problems, but the children of affluent families graduate debt-free and move quickly into top-paying jobs, while the children of other families face lesser job prospects and heavy loads of student debt. All too often, the less affluent experience the miracle of compound interest in reverse.
但最新出现在高等教育领域的反馈回路也许是最重要的。中产阶级家庭更加紧张的预算，使得他们更难负担专门的课外辅导，以及帮助富家子弟进入名牌大学的其他环境优势。财政支持有助于缓解这些问题，但毕业时，富家子弟往往无债一身轻，可以迅速获得高薪工作，而其他家庭的孩子则面临着不那么美妙的就业前景和沉重的学生债务。有太多时候，不太富裕的学生会承担复利的重压。
More than anything else, what’s transformed the “rags to rags in three generations” story is the reduced importance of inherited wealth relative to other forms of inherited advantage. Monetary bequests are far more easily squandered than early childhood advantage and elite educational credentials. As Americans, we once pointed with pride to our country’s high level of economic and social mobility, but we’ve now become one of the world’s most rigidly stratified industrial democracies.
相对于其他继承而来的优势，财富继承的重要性降低了，这恐怕比其他任何因素都更能改变“富不过三代”的故事。与幼年时的优势和精英教育的经历相比，挥霍掉继承来的金钱要容易得多。作为美国人，我们曾经为这个国家居于高水平的经济和社会流动性为自豪，但我们现在已经成为全世界阶层固化最严重的发达民主国家之一。
Given the grave threats to the social order that extreme inequality has posed in other countries, it’s easy to see why the growing income gap is poised to become the signature political issue of 2014. Low- and middle-income Americans don’t appear to be on the threshold of revolt. But the middle-class squeeze continues to tighten, and it would be imprudent to consider ourselves immune. So if growing inequality has become a self-reinforcing process, we’ll want to think more creatively about public policies that might contain it.
鉴于其他国家的极端不平等已经对社会秩序构成严重威胁，我们很容易明白为什么不断加大的收入差距，势必会成为2014年的标志性政治议题。中低收入美国人似乎没有到暴动的临界点。但中产阶级承受的挤压持续加重，那种认为美国绝无此忧的想法是非常轻率的。所以，如果日益加剧的不平等已经变成一个自我强化的进程，我们就需要对公共政策做出更有创造性的思考，进而遏制这种趋势。
In the meantime, the proportion of our citizens who never make it out of rags will continue to grow.
与此同时，一直无法脱离贫困的民众，比例将持续增长。