BEIJING — Bathed in the fluorescent pink light that signaled she was ready for business, the woman rattled off the occupational hazards of working as a prostitute in China: abusive clients, the specter of H.I.V. and the scathing glares of neighbors that tear at her soul.
北京——在用来吸引客人的粉色荧光灯光下，一名女性性工作者列举了在中国从事这份工作的职业危害：粗暴的客人、感染艾滋病的恐惧，以及如同利刃一样插在她心上的邻居们尖锐的眼神。
“My life is so full of anxieties,” said the woman, known as Li Zhengguo, between customers one recent evening. “Sometimes my heart feels rotten for having given away my body.”
不久前的一个晚上，这个名叫李正果（音译）的女子在等待下一名客人时说，“我的生活中充满了焦虑，有时，在出卖了自己的身体后，我感觉我的心都死了。”
But her greatest fear is a visit from the police. The last time she was hauled into the local station house, Ms. Li was sent without trial or legal representation to a detention center in neighboring Hebei Province, where she spent six months making ornamental paper flowers and reciting the regulations that criminalize prostitution. Her incarceration at the Handan Custody and Education Center ended with a final indignity: She had to reimburse the jail for her stay, about $60 a month.
但她最担心的还是警察上门。上一次被带到一个当地公安局之后，没有经过审理，没有律师为她代理，李正果就被送到了附近河北省的一个收容中心。她在那里待了六个月，每天制作装饰用的纸花，或者背诵禁止卖淫的法律条文。在她离开邯郸收容教育所的时候，又一件令她气愤的事发生了：她需要向监狱交纳每月大约300多元的生活费。
“The next time the police come to take me away, I’ll slit my wrists,” said Ms. Li, 39, a single mother with two sons.
李正果说，“下一次如果警察要带我走，我就割腕。”现年39岁的李正果有两个儿子，是一个单亲妈妈。
Advocates for legal overhaul claimed victory in November after the Chinese government announced that it would abolish “re-education through labor,” the system that allows the police to send petty criminals and people who complain too loudly about government malfeasance to work camps for up to four years without trial.
中国政府去年11月宣布，将废止劳教制度，这是法律改革倡导者的一次胜利。劳教制度允许警方在未经法庭审理的情况下把轻微罪犯和对政府渎职行为表达了过分激烈不满的人送到劳教所，时间最长可达四年。
But two parallel mechanisms of extralegal punishment persist: one for drug offenders, and another for prostitutes and their clients. “The abuses and torture are continuing, just in a different way,” said Corinna-Barbara Francis, a China researcher at Amnesty International.
不过，与劳教类似的两个法外惩罚机制仍然存在：一个针对毒贩，另一个针对性工作者及其顾客。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)的中国问题研究员科琳娜-芭芭拉·弗朗西斯(Corinna-Barbara Francis)说，“滥用职权和刑讯逼供仍然继续，只不过是以另一种方式在进行。”
The murky penal system for prostitutes, “custody and education,” is strikingly similar to re-education through labor. Centers run by the Ministry of Public Security hold women for up to two years and often require them to toil in workshops seven days a week for no pay, producing toys, disposable chopsticks and dog diapers, some of which the women say are packaged for export. Male clients are also jailed at such centers, but in far smaller numbers, according to a report released last month by the advocacy group Asia Catalyst.
“收容和教育”，这一针对性工作者的含义不清的惩罚制度，与劳教制度有着明显的相似之处。这些女性会在公安部运营的收容教育中心关押至多两年，她们通常会被要求在车间里干苦工，一周工作七天，没有报酬，生产玩具、一次性筷子和狗尿片。被收容的妇女说，其中有些产品的包装是用于出口的。倡导组织亚洲促进会(Asia Catalyst)上个月公布的一份报告显示，嫖娼者也会被关进这样的收容所，但人数要少得多。
Women who have passed through some of the nation’s 200 custody and education prisons describe onerous fees and violence at the hands of guards.
中国有200个收容教育所，一些曾经进过收容教育所的妇女们描述了里面昂贵的收费和狱警对她们实施的暴力。
As with re-education through labor, the police mete out custody and education sentences without trial and with little chance for appeal. “It’s arbitrary, abusive and disastrous in terms of public health,” said Nicholas Bequelin, a senior researcher at Human Rights Watch, which issued a report last year on the perils faced by women working in China’s booming sex trade. “It’s another rotten branch of the Chinese legal system, and it should be abolished.”
就像劳教制度一样，警方不经审理就对性工作者处以收容教育的惩罚，后者几乎没有申诉的机会。人权观察(Human Rights Watch)高级研究员林伟(Nicholas Bequelin)说，“这种制度随心所欲、滥用职权，从公共卫生角度看是灾难性的。”该组织去年发布了一份报告，内容有关女性性工作者在中国蓬勃发展的性产业中面临的种种危险。“这是中国法律体系的另一个腐朽分支，应该被废除。”
The Asia Catalyst report portrays custody and education as a vast moneymaking enterprise masquerading as a system for rehabilitating women. Established by China’s legislature in 1991, the detention centers are run by local public security bureaus, which have the final say on penalties. Former inmates say police officials sometimes solicit bribes to release detainees.
亚洲促进会的报告称，收容教育所是以改造女性为名的庞大敛财机构。这些收容所是中国全国人民代表大会于1991年建立的，由地方公安机关管理，它们对如何处罚被收容者拥有最终决定权。曾经的被收容者说，警察有时会以释放在押人员为条件索取贿赂。
The government does not publish regular statistics on the program, but experts estimate that 18,000 to 28,000 women are sent to detention centers each year. Inmates are required to pay for food, medical exams, bedding and other essential items like soap and sanitary napkins, with most women spending about $400 for a six-month stay, the report said.
中国政府未公布有关收容教育制度的数据，但是专家估计，每年有1.8万至2.8万名女性被送进收容所。亚洲促进会的报告说，被收容者需要自己承担食物、体检、寝具以及香皂和卫生巾等生活必需品的费用，大多数妇女在六个月的收容期间会花费人民币大约2400元。
“Those who couldn’t pay were only given steamed buns to eat,” one woman told Asia Catalyst.
一名妇女告诉亚洲促进会，“交不起钱的人每天只能吃馒头。”
At some centers, visitors are required to pay an entry fee of $33 to see imprisoned relatives.
在一些收容所，探视亲属的人也需要交纳200元的费用。
Those who have studied the system say that local public security bureaus earn a sizable income from what is essentially free labor.
研究过这一制度的人士说，地方的公安局可以从这些免费劳动力身上获取丰厚的收入。
The Chinese government’s approach to prostitution is inconsistent. After the Communist victory in 1949, Mao Zedong made the rehabilitation of prostitutes, whom the Communists saw as victims of capitalist exploitation, a priority. During his first years in power, he effectively eradicated the trade. But the introduction of market overhauls in the early 1980s led to a resurgence in prostitution, and up to six million women were estimated to be working in the sex industry in recent years, according to a United Nations report.
中国政府对卖淫活动的态度一直在变化。1949年中华人民共和国成立之后，毛泽东将妓女的改造作为政府工作的重点。共产党认为妓女是资本主义剥削的受害者。在执政的头几年，毛泽东有效地禁绝了这个产业。不过，上世纪80年代初的市场改革导致了色情服务业的死灰复燃，一份联合国报告估计，最近几年在色情行业工作的女性达600万人。
Today, Chinese cities are full of “hair salons” with curtained-off back rooms and no visible scissors; at upscale karaoke parlors, young female attendants double as call girls. The police are often paid to look the other way, many prostitutes say.
如今，中国的城市到处可以见到这种“发廊”：发廊里面是很多用帘子遮挡的黑屋子，看不到理发剪；在高档的歌厅，年轻的女服务员也扮演着应召女郎的角色。许多卖淫女说，收受了贿赂的警察通常会对她们睁一只眼闭一只眼。
But that apparent forbearance evaporates during periodic “strike hard” campaigns in which large numbers of prostitutes are rounded up, often before important political meetings. A police official in Liaoning Province told Asia Catalyst that cities and counties were required to meet quotas, prompting occasional “vice sweeps” to replenish jailhouse workshops.
但是在定期的“严打”运动中，这种明显的宽容就会消失，大批卖淫女会受到围捕，这种活动通常发生在重要的政治会议之前。辽宁省的一名警察告诉亚洲促进会，地方的公安机关需要完成指标，所以会开展突击的扫黑行动，为监狱的工厂补充劳动力。
Legal advocates say the police sometimes use violence to extract confessions and force women to strip for photographs that become evidence of their transgressions. “The way they are treated is such a violation of their dignity,” said Shen Tingting, advocacy director at Asia Catalyst. “The entire system stigmatizes women and sends out a message that sex workers are dirty and need to be reformed.”
法律界人士说，警方有时为逼供使用暴力，强迫女性性工作者拍裸照，作为她们违法的证据。亚洲促进会倡导官员沈婷婷说，“警方对待性工作者的方式践踏了她们的尊严。这个制度给女性打上了耻辱的烙印，并且传递出一个信息，即性工作者是肮脏的，需要被改造。”
Women describe the camp labor as tolerable but tedious. In an interview, a 41-year-old native of southeast Jiangxi Province said she spent her days at one such jail making stuffed animals, sometimes until 11 p.m. “You’d sew so much, your hand would hurt,” said the woman, who would only give her street name, Xiao Lan, or Little Orchid.
据女性性工作者描述，收容所的劳动尚可忍受，但是极其单调乏味。一名来自中国东南部的江西省的41岁女性说，她在这样的监狱待过，制作毛绒动物玩具，有时要做到晚上11点。她只肯说自己工作时的名字是小兰。她说，“缝的太多了，手都疼了。”
She laughed when asked about the program’s education component — mostly long sessions spent memorizing the rules governing behavior at the jail. “We called the guards teachers and they called us students, but we didn’t learn anything,” she said.
在被问到这个制度中的教育成分——主要是花大量时间背诵监狱的行为准则，她笑了起来。“我们管狱警叫老师，他们管我们叫学生，但是我们什么也没学到，”她说。
Xiao Lan was released after six months, and she immediately returned to her old trade. “So, too, did all the other girls,” she said.
小兰被关了六个月之后被释放，继续从事以前的工作。她说，“其他的姑娘也是这么做的。”
Reached by phone, public security officials in several provinces that operate large custody and education centers declined to discuss the matter, saying they were not authorized to speak to the news media.
在电话采访中，设有大型收容教育所的几个省份的公安官员拒绝谈论这一话题，他们说，自己没有得到对媒体讲话的授权。
Those seeking to abolish the system acknowledge a tough road ahead. There is little public support for reducing the penalties for prostitution, and China’s influential domestic security apparatus is unlikely to give up willingly the power and profits of the current system.
寻求废除这一制度的人们承认这很难实现。公众几乎不支持减轻对卖淫嫖娼的惩罚，影响力强大的国内安全机构也不太可能愿意放弃这种权力，以及现有制度带来的利益。
The indignities of incarceration do little to dissuade women who can earn more than $1,000 a month as prostitutes, triple the average income for unskilled laborers in China. Ms. Li, the single mother of two, said she was illiterate and could never make as much money in a conventional job. “I’m an uneducated country girl with no skills,” she said.
在收容所的屈辱经历并没有让这些女性下决心转行。她们作为性工作者每月能赚得超过6000元人民币，是中国无特殊技能劳动者平均收入的三倍。两个孩子的单亲妈妈李正果说，她没有文化，如果做一份平常的工作永远不会赚这么多钱。她说，“我是一个没有技能、没受过教育的农村妇女。”
A former pig farmer with a giddy laugh, Ms. Li operates out of a cramped storefront in the commercial heart of Beijing. A flimsy wall separates her work space from the bedroom she shares with her sons.
曾经是个养猪户的李正果笑声轻飘飘的，她目前在北京商业中心一个狭小的街面房子里工作。她接待客人的地方与她和儿子的卧室只隔了一面薄墙。
She relies on a steady clientele, mostly married men and lonely migrant workers, but even the regulars sometimes try to leave without paying. Then there are those who claim to be police officers and demand free sex, customers who furtively cut off the tops of condoms, and drunken men who fly into violent rages when Ms. Li refuses to do their bidding.
来找她的都是常客，大多数是已婚男人和孤独的民工，但即使是常客，有时也会赖账。有些客人冒充警察，要求她们免费服务，有些客人偷偷把安全套头部剪开，还有喝醉了的客人，如果李正果拒绝他们的要求，他们就会怒不可遏，暴力相加。
“I’d call the police, but they always take the customer’s side,” she said.
她说，“我会报警，但是警察总是站在客人的一边。”
With that, she excused herself to welcome a client who was waiting outside her door.
说完，她便站起身，去接待等在门外的一名客人。