Fairfax County, Va., and McDowell County, W.Va., are separated by 350 miles, about a half-day’s drive. Traveling west from Fairfax County, the gated communities and bland architecture of military contractors give way to exurbs, then to farmland and eventually to McDowell’s coal mines and the forested slopes of the Appalachians. Perhaps the greatest distance between the two counties is this: Fairfax is a place of the haves, and McDowell of the have-nots. Just outside of Washington, fat government contracts and a growing technology sector buoy the median household income in Fairfax County up to $107,000, one of the highest in the nation. McDowell, with the decline of coal, has little in the way of industry. Unemployment is high. Drug abuse is rampant. Median household income is about one-fifth that of Fairfax.
美国弗吉尼亚州的费尔法克斯县与西弗吉尼亚州的麦克道尔县相距350英里（约563千米），大约半天车程。从费尔法克斯县向西行驶，封闭式小区和军事承包商平淡刻板的建筑物逐渐为远郊地区和农田所取代，最后，麦克道尔县的煤矿及阿巴拉契亚山脉覆盖着森林的山坡终于呈现眼前。但或许，这两个县间最大的差距是：费尔法克斯县是富人的领地，而麦克道尔县则是穷人的家园。毗邻华盛顿，丰厚的政府合同和不断增长的技术部门将费尔法克斯县的家庭收入中位数推高至10.7万美元，是全国最高的县之一。反观麦克道尔县，随着煤炭行业式微，该县几乎失去了其工业出路，失业率很高，吸毒泛滥，家庭收入中位数大约只有费尔法克斯县的五分之一。
One of the starkest consequences of that divide is seen in the life expectancies of the people there. Residents of Fairfax County are among the longest-lived in the country: Men have an average life expectancy of 82 years and women, 85, about the same as in Sweden. In McDowell, the averages are 64 and 73, about the same as in Iraq.
这种差距造成的最严重后果之一表现在两地居民的预期寿命上。费尔法克斯县的居民堪属全美最长寿者之列：男性的平均预期寿命为82岁，女性为85岁，基本与瑞典持平。而在麦克道尔县，男性和女性的平均预期寿命分别为64岁和73岁，跟伊拉克差不多。
There have long been stark economic differences between Fairfax County and McDowell. But as their fortunes have diverged even further over the past generation, their life expectancies have diverged, too. In McDowell, women’s life expectancy has actually fallen by two years since 1985; it grew five years in Fairfax.
长期以来，费尔法克斯县和麦克道尔县之间一直存在着显著的经济差距。但在上一代人中，这种财富差距进一步加剧，两地人民的预期寿命也出现了分化。事实上，从1985年以来，麦克道尔县女性的预期寿命已经减少了两年；与此同时费尔法克斯县女性的预期寿命却增加了五年。
“Poverty is a thief,” said Michael Reisch, a professor of social justice at the University of Maryland, testifying before a Senate panel on the issue. “Poverty not only diminishes a person’s life chances, it steals years from one’s life.”
“贫困是一个窃贼，”马里兰大学(University of Maryland)的社会正义学(social justice)教授，此前曾在参议院委员会(Senate panel)面前就该问题作证的迈克尔·赖施(Michael Reisch)说。“贫困不仅会削弱一个人的生存机会，它还会窃取人的寿命。”
That reality is playing out across the country. For the upper half of the income spectrum, men who reach the age of 65 are living about six years longer than they did in the late 1970s. Men in the lower half are living just 1.3 years longer.
这样的现实在全美各地都得到明证。如果将居民的收入由高到低排列，前半部分名单中65岁及以上男性的寿命较20世纪70年代末延长了约六年；而后半部分中的同年龄段男性寿命仅延长了1.3年。
This life-expectancy gap has started to surface in discussions among researchers, public health officials and Washington policy makers. The general trend is for Americans to live longer, and as lawmakers contemplate changes to government programs — like nudging up the Social Security retirement age or changing its cost-of-living adjustment — they are confronted with the potential unfairness to those who die considerably earlier.
研究人员、公共卫生官员以及华盛顿的政策制订者们已经开始在他们的讨论中涉及这一预期寿命的差距。对于美国人而言，寿命延长是一个总体趋势，因此立法者们考虑对政府计划作出相应的调整——诸如略微提高社会保险退休年龄(Social Security retirement age)或改变其生活费用调整(cost-of-living adjustment)等。但这样，他们就面临着一个问题：这些改变对预期寿命明显较短的那部分人可能不公平。
The link between income and longevity has been clearly established. Poor people are likelier to smoke. They have less access to the health care system. They tend to weigh more. And their bodies suffer the debilitating effects of more intense and more constant stress. Everywhere, and across time, the poor tend to live shorter lives than the rich, whether researchers compare the Bangladeshis with the Dutch or minimum-wage workers with millionaires.
很久以前，人们就已经确定：收入与寿命之间存在关联。穷人吸烟的可能性更大；他们享受到卫生保健系统服务的机会较少；体重往往更重；他们的身体遭受着强度更大，也更加持久的压力所带来的破坏性影响。古往今来，世界各地，无论研究人员是将孟加拉人与荷兰人相比，还是拿仅凭着最低工资糊口的工人与百万富翁相比，都会得出同一个结论：穷人往往比富人短命。
But is widening income inequality behind the divergence in longevity over the last three decades? Would an economy with a narrower gap between the haves and the have-nots lead to stronger life-expectancy gains, from the richest to the poorest? Might the expansion of insurance through the Affordable Care Act help close the gap? And might the policies that Congress is contemplating to ameliorate poverty — like raising the minimum wage — have a further effect on life spans, too?
然而，在过去30年间寿命差距的背后，是否是日益增大的收入差距在推波助澜？如果有一种经济模式可以缩小贫富差距，那么，它是否可以给从最富裕者到最贫困者的所有人都带来更大的预期寿命增长？实施平价医疗法案(Affordable Care Act)以扩大保险范围是否有助于弥补上述差距？国会正在考虑的缓解贫困的政策——如提高最低工资标准等——是否会对居民寿命产生进一步的效果？
Those are questions that researchers armed with reams of data on mortality, poverty, health, social spending and income are struggling to answer.
研究人员试图运用大量有关死亡率、贫困、卫生、社会支出和收入的数据，来回答这些问题。
“The gaps continue to widen between the communities with the highest life expectancy and the lowest,” said Christopher Murray, the director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation in Seattle, which produces the county-level life-expectancy figures. “There is nothing in sight that suggests that the 25-year trend is going to stop.”
“预期寿命最高与最低的社区之间的差距仍在继续拉大，”西雅图健康指标与评估研究所(Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation)主任、县级预期寿命数字的计算者克里斯托弗·默里(Christopher Murray)说。“目前没有任何迹象表明这种25年趋势将要停止。”
“Would that be different if the income inequality were reduced?” he added. “If you took a 30-year view, then yes. There does seem to be that long-run relationship between community income and these life-expectancy outcomes.”
“如果可以减少收入的不平等，那么情况是否会有所不同？”他追问道。“如果从30年趋势来看，答案是肯定的。社区收入与预期寿命结果之间的确存在着持久的相关性。”
Living in Fairfax is different than living in McDowell.
费尔法克斯县的居民生活与麦克道尔县大相径庭。
In Fairfax, there are ample doctors, hospitals, recreation centers, shops, restaurants, grocery stores, nursing homes and day care centers, with public and private entities providing cradle-to-grave services to prosperous communities.
费尔法克斯县有着充足的医生、医院、娱乐中心、商店、餐馆、副食品商店、疗养院和日托中心。从摇篮到坟墓，这个繁荣社区中的居民享受着公共和私营实体提供的全方位服务。
The federal government, especially security and military contracting, drives the economy. While cutbacks — through sequestration and reduced military spending — have slowed the rate of growth in recent years, the government nonetheless provides a steady base on which the region has flourished over the last decades. Currently, the local unemployment rate is just 3.6 percent; the national rate is 6.7 percent.
联邦政府，尤其是安全和军事承包(security and military contracting)推动了经济的发展。尽管近年来对军费开支的封存和削减从一定程度上减缓了这种增长的速度，然而政府仍然为该地区几十年来的蓬勃发展提供了稳固的基础。目前当地失业率只有3.6%；而全美失业率为6.7%。
“We aren’t like Beverly Hills or some other place with lots of multimillionaires,” said Stephen S. Fuller, the director for the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University, in Fairfax County. “But we have more workers per household than just about any metro area in the country. We have more people working, and more people working in every age cohort.”
“我们不像比佛利山或别处那样有很多千万富翁，”乔治·梅森大学区域分析中心（Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University，位于费尔法克斯县）的主任史蒂芬·S·富勒(Stephen S. Fuller)说。“但就平均每户的就业者数量而言，这里比全美任何大都会区都多。我们的就业比例较高，无论哪个年龄组都是如此。”
The jobs tend to be good jobs, providing health insurance and pensions, even if there is a growing low-wage work force of health aides, janitors, fast-food workers and the like. “It’s a knowledge-based work force,” Mr. Fuller said. “And we have an economy built on services, technology-intensive services.”
这些工作一般都挺靠谱，可以提供医疗保险和养老金，即便是像健康助理、门卫、快餐工作人员之类的低工资劳动力不断增加也并不怎么影响全局。“这是种知识型的劳动力结构，”富勒先生说。“我们的经济建立在服务，而且是技术密集型服务的基础之上。”
Social services — judged against those of poorer counties — are stellar, too. The local government, which runs some of the best public schools in the country, also offers its older citizens services as varied as rides to senior centers and “care and enrichment consultations” for those looking to adopt a pet rabbit.
与贫困县相比，费尔法克斯县的社会服务也更加出色。当地政府开办的公立学校在全美位居前列，此外，政府还向老年人提供了多种多样的服务，例如来去老年活动中心的接送服务，为想要领养宠物兔的老人提供“托管和传代咨询服务”等。
A retired home-health nurse, Tena Bluhm, heads the local Commission on Aging. “We were seeing a big change in demographics,” she said, “with the boomers aging and a trend where folks, as they aged, wanted to stay in this area.”
特纳·布卢姆(Tena Bluhm)是一位已退休的家庭保健护士，她是当地老年人委员会(Commission on Aging)的负责人。“随着婴儿潮一代步入老年，而且人年纪越大就越倾向于留在该地，我们发现人口统计学数据出现了巨大变化，”她说。
On a cool weekday morning, John McGinnis, 57, emerged stiffly from a shallow pool at a public indoor facility, where there were also gleaming squash courts, a golf course and three bored-looking lifeguards. A water-exercise instructor had led him and nine others through a series of gentle movements with pool noodles.
一个凉爽的工作日早晨，57岁的约翰·麦金尼斯(John McGinnis)从室内公共游泳池的浅水区走上岸来，动作有点僵硬。该设施还设有光线明亮的壁球场、高尔夫球场，配了三名看起来百无聊赖的救生员。水中运动教练刚刚带领他和其他九人在池面上练习了一系列轻柔的动作。
“I’ve had six back surgeries,” he said, shuffling toward an oversized hot tub after the class. “This is a lifesaver.”
“我动过六次背部手术，”课后，他一边拖着脚走向超大号的热水浴缸一边说。“这课程帮了我的大忙。”
On a sunny weekend afternoon, 350 miles away, Chea Lockwood, a registered nurse with the Commission on Aging in McDowell County, visited Melissa Courtner, 38, who lives in one of McDowell’s few high-rises, a bare-bones facility for disabled and elderly residents.
让我们将目光转向350英里之外的麦克道尔县。一个阳光明媚的周末下午，老年人委员会的注册护士切亚·洛克伍德(Chea Lockwood)前往设在该县为数不多的高楼大厦之内的残疾人和老年居民基础设施，拜访了居住在这里的38岁的梅利莎·柯特尼(Melissa Courtner)。
Coal miners still dig into and blast off the tops of steep Appalachian hills. But the industry that once provided thousands of jobs is slowly disappearing, and the region’s entrenched poverty has persisted. The unemployment rate is 8.8 percent, down from more than 13 percent in the worst of the recession. The current number would be even higher if more residents hadn’t simply given up looking for work.
煤矿工人们仍然在阿巴拉契亚山脉内部挖掘采矿或在其山顶露天采矿，但这一曾经为该地区提供了数千就业机会的行业正在慢慢消逝，牢牢盘踞于该地区的贫困仍然旷日持久。与经济衰退最严重时的13%相比，麦克道尔县的失业率有所下降，但仍高达8.8%。如果有更多的居民就此放弃找工作，该数字数目还可能更高。
Government assistance accounts for half of the income of county residents. Social workers described shortages of teachers, nurses, doctors, surgeons, mental health professionals and addiction-treatment workers. There is next to no public transportation. Winding two-lane roads, sometimes impassable in snow and ice, connect the small population centers of trailers, small homes and the occasional minimart. “It’ll take you an hour to drive 15 miles,” Ms. Lockwood said.
政府援助占该县居民收入的一半。社会福利工作者指出，教师、护士、医生、外科医生、心理健康专业人员和戒毒人员均呈短缺状态。附近没有公共交通。迂回曲折的双车道道路连接起围绕拖车、小院、或（在偶尔情况下）便利超市形成的小型居民聚居区，遇到冰雪天有时就寸步难行。“区区15英里（约24千米）的车程要花上一个小时，”洛克伍德女士说。
Ms. Lockwood has lived in McDowell County long enough to be widowed twice, and on this morning she first checked on two older patients in the housing project, cheerfully going through a checklist of questions. “Is your health aide on time?” “Do you need help washing that pretty hair of yours?”
洛克伍德女士是麦克道尔县的老居民了，在这里她曾经两度丧偶。这天上午，她首先去探视了安居项目中的两名老年患者，并笑容满面地循着清单提问。“您的健康助理是否都按时上班？”“您需不需要别人来帮您洗护您漂亮的头发？”
She checked in on Ms. Courtner, whom she had seen for her first evaluation earlier in the week. “I’m going to steal your man,” Ms. Courtner said with a whoop as Ms. Lockwood entered the room.
柯特尼女士在这周早些时候接受了第一次评估。“我要偷走你的男人。”她对正走进房间的洛克伍德女士高声喊道。
“You can’t have him!” Ms. Lockwood said, reaching down to hug Ms. Courtner in her wheelchair before sitting down on a coffee table to talk.
“他可不能归你！”洛克伍德女士说。她弯下腰拥抱了坐在轮椅上的柯特尼女士，然后在咖啡桌旁坐下开始了交谈。
Ms. Courtner’s medical problems started early. She dropped out of high school and started smoking and drinking at 16. She had a stroke at 21, leaving her with partial paralysis. She has multiple sclerosis and bipolar disorder. A fistula, only partially repaired, makes a colostomy bag necessary.
柯特尼女士的健康问题由来已久。她16岁就从高中辍学，并开始抽烟喝酒。21岁时，她发生了中风，此后一直偏瘫。她还患有多发性硬化症和躁郁症。由于结肠瘘仅得到了部分修复，她需要依赖于结肠造瘘袋。
She is unable to work, she said, so she manages with disability payments and food stamps. Before moving into her housing unit, she lived in a shed without plumbing or electricity on the property of her parents, who are also disabled.
她说，她没有工作能力，所以只好靠伤残补助金和粮票度日。在搬入安居房之前，她一直住在一个没有上下水也没通电的小棚子里——这个小棚子是她同样身患残疾的父母的财产。
Many people have similar stories. Ms. Lockwood notes that other residents have multiple woes: “Diabetes. Obesity. Congestive heart failure. Drug use. Kidney problems. Lung conditions from the mines.” Problems often start young and often result in shorter lives, she said. Earlier that day, she handed me a list of recent funerals with about half highlighted in yellow; they signified that the deceased was under 50.
许多人都有类似的故事。洛克伍德女士指出，其他的居民也面临着多重困境：“糖尿病、肥胖、充血性心脏衰竭、吸毒、肾脏疾病、因采矿造成的肺部疾病等。”她说，这些问题通常在人年轻的时候就种下了种子，且往往导致寿命缩短。当天早些时候，她递给我一张近期的葬礼列表，其上约有一半的名字都以黄色突出显示：这表明死者还不到50岁。
Since the 1980s, “socioeconomic status has become an even more important indicator of life expectancy.” That was the finding of a 2008 report by the Congressional Budget Office. But dollars in a bank account have never added a day to anyone’s life, researchers stress. Instead, those dollars are at work in a thousand daily-life decisions — about jobs, medical care, housing, food and exercise — with a cumulative effect on longevity.
20世纪80年代以来，“社会经济状况日益成为寿命的重要指标。”美国国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)在2008年的报告中总结道。但研究人员强调，一直存在银行账户中的美元并不会延长人的寿命。相反，只有围绕着关于就业、医疗、住房、食品和运动等成千上万种日常生活决策运转的金钱才对寿命具有累积效应。
“Why might income have an effect on morbidity or mortality?” said David Kindig, an emeritus professor at the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and an expert in longevity issues. “We have these causal pathways, through better jobs, better health insurance, better choice of behaviors, he added. On top of that, “there’s the stress effects of poverty and low educational status.”
“收入为什么会影响发病率和死亡率？”威斯康辛大学医学院(University of Wisconsin School of Medicine)的荣誉退休教授，寿命问题专家戴维·金迪格(David Kindig)问。“因为它可以通过更好的工作、更好的医疗保险、更好的选择行为等途径对寿命发生因果效应，”他紧接着回答道。除此之外，“贫困和教育程度不高还会产生压力。”
As such, the health statistics for Fairfax and McDowell are as striking as their income data. In Fairfax, the adult obesity rate is about 24 percent and one in eight residents smokes. In McDowell, the adult obesity rate is more than 30 percent and one in three adults smokes. And the disability rate is about five times higher in McDowell.
于是，费尔法克斯县和麦克道尔县的健康统计结果就像他们的收入数据一样惊人。在费尔法克斯县，成年人肥胖率约为24%，约有八分之一的居民吸烟。而麦克道尔县的成年人肥胖率达30%以上，每三名成年人中就有一人是吸烟者。另外，麦克道尔县的残障率约是费尔法克斯县的五倍。
In both counties, food availability matters. There are only two full-size grocery stores in McDowell; minimarts and fast-food restaurants are major sources of nutrition. “We don’t have gyms or fitness centers,” said Pamela McPeak, who grew up in McDowell getting creek water to flush her family’s toilet. “It’s cheaper to buy Cheetos rather than apples.” She now runs a nonprofit program that provides tutoring and helps high school students get into college.
食品供应对这两个县都有重大影响。麦克道尔县只有两个标准规模的副食品商店；便利超市和快餐店是居民饮食的主要来源。“我们没有健身房和健身中心，”自幼在麦克道尔县长大的帕梅拉·麦克皮克(Pamela McPeak)一边从溪里打水冲洗她家的厕所一边说。买奇多膨化食品总比买苹果便宜。”她现在经营着一项非营利性项目，旨在为高中生们提供辅导，以帮助他们考上大学。
Education is also correlated with longevity, as it is with income and employment. Educated individuals are much more likely to work, and much more likely to have higher incomes. In McDowell, about one in 18 adults has a college degree; in Fairfax, the share is 60 percent.
正如教育与收入和就业存在关联一样，它也与寿命有关。受过良好教育的人更容易找到工作，也更可能获得较高的收入。在麦克道尔县，大约每18名成年人中只有一人具有大学学位，而在费尔法克斯县该比例可达到60%。
Finally, and perhaps most powerfully, researchers say that a life in poverty is a life of stress that accumulates in a person’s very cells. Being poor is hard in a way that can mean worse sleep, more cortisol in the blood, a greater risk of hypertension and, ultimately, a shorter life.
最后或许也是最有说服力的一点是，在贫困环境中，生活的压力会在一个人的各个细胞中积聚，研究人员们指出。贫穷注定了艰辛的生活，它意味着睡眠质量较差，血液中的皮质醇水平较高，患高血压的风险较大，以致最终，寿命较短。
As southern West Virginia has foundered, northern Virginia has flourished. But do the two counties’ diverging life expectancies relate to their diverging economic fortunes? And might that be true across the country?
随着西弗吉尼亚州南部地区的没落，弗吉尼亚州北部地区则蓬勃地发展起来。但是，这两个县预期寿命之间的差距是否确实与其经济命运间的差异有关？这种关联是否可以推广至全美范围？
It is hard to prove causality with the available information. County-level data is the most detailed available, but it is not perfect. People move, and that is a confounding factor. McDowell’s population has dropped by more than half since the late 1970s, whereas Fairfax’s has roughly doubled. Perhaps more educated and healthier people have been relocating from places like McDowell to places like Fairfax. In that case, life expectancy would not have changed; how Americans arrange themselves geographically would have.
仅凭手头的资料，很难证明其间的因果关系。县级数据是现有最详细的数据，但它也并非尽善尽美。人是会搬家的，这是一个混杂因素。与20世纪70年代末相比，麦克道尔县的人口下降了一大半，而费尔法克斯县的人口基本上翻了一番。也许，这是因为教育程度较高也更为健康的人从像麦克道尔县这样的地方搬迁到了像费尔法克斯县这样的地方。在这种情况下，发生改变的其实并不是人们的预期寿命，而是美国人对自己居住地的地理选择偏好。
“These things are not nearly as clear as they seem, or as clear as epidemiologists seem to think,” said Angus Deaton, an economist at Princeton.
“这些东西并不像流行病学家认为的，或者表面看上去那么简单明了，”普林斯顿的经济学家安格斯·迪顿德(Angus Deaton)指出。
Further, there is nothing to suggest that, for a given individual, getting a raise in pay or moving between counties would mean outliving her peers.
此外，没有迹象表明，对于既定的个人而言，涨工资或者在不同的县之间移居可以让他比同龄人寿命更长。
“The statistical term is the ecological fallacy,” Mr. Kindig said. “We can’t apply aggregate data to an individual, and that’s underappreciated when you’re looking at these numbers.” But, “having said that, I still think that the averages and the variation across counties tells us a lot,” he added. “We don’t want to let the perfect be the enemy of the good here.”
“用统计术语来说，这叫做区群谬误(ecological fallacy)，”迪顿德先生说。“在审查这些数字时，不能简单地将群体的汇总统计数据推及其下属个体。”但是，“话虽如此，我仍然认为，这两个县的平均数和其间的差异可以给我们带来不少启示，”他补充道。“我们可不想因为过分追求‘完美’放弃‘还不错’的结果。”
Despite the statistical murk, many epidemiologists, economists and other researchers say that rising income inequality may be playing into the rising disparity in health and longevity. “We can’t say that there is no effect, just because we don’t have clear methods to test the effect,” said Hui Zheng, a sociologist at Ohio State University.
尽管从统计学角度还不甚确定，许多流行病学家、经济学家和其他研究人员都认为，收入不平等加剧很可能在健康和寿命差距不断扩大中发挥了一定作用。“我们不能仅仅因为目前尚无明确的方法来测试其效果，就断定它们绝对无效，”俄亥俄州立大学(Ohio State University)的社会学家郑辉(Hui Zheng)说。
In particular, changes in smoking and obesity rates may help explain the connection between bigger bank accounts and longer lives. “Richer people and richer communities smoke less, and that gap is growing,” said Dr. Murray at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.
特别是，吸烟和肥胖率的变化很可能有助于解释高收入与长寿间的关联。“富人和较富裕的社区中抽烟者较少，而且这一差距已经越来越大，”健康指标与评估研究所的默里博士表示。
Mr. Zheng has also posited that inequality, by socially disenfranchising certain groups and making them distrustful of public systems, may have a long-range effect on health.
郑先生还假定，通过剥夺特定人群的公民权利、促使他们对公共系统失去信任，不平等可能会对健康造成长期影响。
To some extent, the broad expansion of health insurance to low-income communities, as called for under Obamacare, may help to mitigate this stark divide, experts say. And it is encouraging that both Republicans and Democrats have recently elevated the issues of poverty, economic mobility and inequality, But the contrast between McDowell and Fairfax shows just how deeply entrenched these trends are, with consequences reaching all the way from people’s pocketbooks to their graves.
专家们表示，从某种程度上说，如果能像奥巴马医改方案所呼吁的那样，将医疗保险的范围扩展到低收入群体，很有可能有助于缓解这种严峻的形势。令人鼓舞的是，无论共和党还是民主党近期都提高了对贫困、经济流动性和不平等问题的重视，但从麦克道尔县和费尔法克斯县之间的对比就可以看出，这些趋势有多么根深蒂固，其后果已经影响到了从钱包到坟墓等民生的方方面面。