LOS ANGELES — After the Los Angeles public schools were shut down Tuesday in response to threats of a bomb and poison gas attack, officials determined that the threats were probably a hoax, but not before the lives of millions of Angelenos — students, parents, teachers and school staff members — were thrown into disarray.
洛杉矶——洛杉矶众多公立学校周二因出现炸弹和毒气袭击威胁而关闭之后，官方表示这些威胁很可能只是虚惊一场，但数百万洛杉矶人——学生、家长、老师和学校职员——已经陷入了混乱。
The threat came in an email sent to board members of the Los Angeles Unified School District, said Charlie Beck, chief of the Los Angeles Police Department. New York City officials said they received a similar threat to schools on Tuesday, but did not close schools after concluding that it was a hoax.
洛杉矶警察局局长查利·贝克(Charlie Beck)表示，有人给洛杉矶联合学区(Los Angeles Unified School District)董事会成员发送了一封包含袭击威胁内容的电子邮件。纽约市官员称，他们周二也收到了类似的袭击学校的威胁，但是在得出它是虚假威胁的结论之后，该市并没有关停学校。
Law enforcement and schools officials said the emails to both cities originated in Frankfurt, or were routed through there, and appeared to have come from the same sender. The F.B.I. was working with local law enforcement agencies in investigating.
执法和教育部门的官员表示，给这两座城市发出的邮件都来自德国法兰克福，或者是经过了那里的网络，而且看起来像是由同一人发出。联邦调查局(FBI)正与当地执法部门合作，进行调查。
After receiving an intelligence briefing, Representative Adam Schiff, a Los Angeles-area Democrat who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement that “the preliminary assessment is that it was a hoax or something designed to disrupt school districts in large cities.”
获知相关情报之后，来自洛杉矶选区的民主党议员、众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)成员亚当·希夫(Adam Schiff)发表声明称，“初步评估的结果表明，这是虚惊一场，或者是为扰乱大城市学区而设计的事件。”
The Los Angeles threat was explicitly “to students at schools,” said Ramon C. Cortines, the superintendent of the district, the nation’s second-largest. He said “some of the details talked about backpacks and other packages.”
洛杉矶的威胁明确“指向在校学生，”洛杉矶联合学区学监拉蒙·C·科蒂内斯(Ramon C. Cortines)说。他负责的是全美第二大学区。他还表示，“一些细节谈及了背包和其他包裹。”
“It was not to one school, two schools or three schools — it was many schools, not specifically identified,” Mr. Cortines, wearing a gray sweatshirt, said at a news conference shortly after 7 a.m. “I am not taking the chance of bringing children anyplace, into any part of the building, until I know it is safe.”
“它不是针对一所、两所或三所学校——而是很多学校，没有特别指明是哪些，”身穿灰色运动衫的科蒂内斯在刚过清晨7点举行的新闻发布会上说。“在能确保安全之前，我不会冒险把孩子们带到任何地方，带入任何一座建筑。”
Representative Brad Sherman, a Democrat who represents parts of Los Angeles, said the writer of the email claimed that “he has 32 jihadist friends” ready to attack the schools using bombs, nerve gas and rifles. The writer identified himself as a practicing Muslim who had attended a Los Angeles high school and had been bullied while he was there, according to Mr. Sherman, who said he had been given a copy of the email by one of the school board members who had received it.
代表洛杉矶部分地区的民主党众议员布拉德·谢尔曼(Brad Sherman)表示，邮件发送者称，“他有32名圣战友人”，随时可以使用炸弹、神经毒气和步枪对多所学校进行袭击。他还自称是一名守教规的穆斯林，在洛杉矶一所高中上过学，在校期间曾被欺侮。谢尔曼表示自己从一名收到邮件的校董会成员那里获得了一份拷贝。
Mr. Sherman said that elements of the message did not appear credible, including the number of potential attackers and the claim that they had access to nerve gas. It was signed by a male Arabic-appearing name, he said, but added: “The word Allah appears several times in the email, but once it’s not capitalized. A devout Muslim or an extremist Muslim would probably be more careful about typing the world Allah.”
谢尔曼称，这封邮件有些地方看起来并不可信，包括潜在袭击者的人数，以及声称他们可以获得神经毒气。他表示邮件署名看起来像是一个阿拉伯男性名字，不过他也说，“安拉(Allah)这个词在邮件中出现了好几次，但有一次首字母没有大写。如果是一个虔诚的穆斯林或极端主义穆斯林，很可能会在输入安拉这个词时更加仔细一点。”
The author appeared knowledgeable about the way schools here are set up, referring to the system by its official name. “Just because parts of the email are false, doesn’t mean it’s all false,” Mr. Sherman said.
邮件发送者在提到该学区系统时使用了它的正式名称，似乎对这里学校的设置比较清楚。“邮件部分地方虚假，并不代表整个都是假的，”谢尔曼说。
The threat to New York schools was sent via email to an Education Department official around 5 a.m. on Tuesday, said a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to publicly discuss details of the threat, which remained under investigation. The official said that the emails appeared to have also been routed through Germany and to have come from the same person — who in this case said he had 138 jihadist friends who would abet him.
给纽约的学校发出的威胁邮件，是在大概凌晨5点通过电子邮箱发送给了纽约市教育局的一名官员。因为无权公开讨论还在进行调查的威胁事件，一名执法官员在不具名的前提下透露了这一消息。该官员还表示，这些邮件似乎也经过了德国的网络发送，好像来自同一人，不过在这封邮件中，此人表示自己有138名圣战友人在背后支持他。
Stephen Davis, the top spokesman for the New York Police Department, said, “After an analysis, we have determined that the emails were the exact same wording with the exception of putting in the cities’ names and changing the number of people who were supposed to be participating in it,” meaning the threatened attack on schools. “Other than that,” he said, “it was a cut-and-paste job.”
纽约警察局首席发言人史蒂芬·戴维斯(Stephen Davis)表示，“经过分析，我们确定这些邮件除了城市名称不同、计划参与袭击的人数不一样，其他措辞完全相同。”他说，“除了那些，其他地方就是复制粘贴过来的。”
Mr. Cortines and other Los Angeles officials said the schools here would remain closed until the police and school administrators had searched every building to make sure the campuses were safe. But the logistical task involved is immense, as is the potential for chaos: The Los Angeles Unified School District has more than 640,000 students, enrolled in 900 schools and 187 public charter schools, sprawling across more than 720 square miles.
科蒂内斯等洛杉矶官员宣布，这里的学校将继续关闭，直到警察和学校管理人员搜查过每栋建设物，以确保校园安全为止。但是这样的后勤工作相当艰巨，而且存在出现混乱的可能：洛杉矶联合学区共有逾64万名学生，就读于900所普通学校和187所公立特许学校，而它们的校园分布在720多平方英里的范围内。
The district asked parents not to send their children to school, and ordered most employees to stay away, but many were already on their way, or even at school, when the order to close was made. Mr. Cortines and other officials said that the children were being kept out of the buildings, and asked parents to pick them up at school gates. Much of the district’s fleet of yellow buses had already begun its morning rounds, before being told to turn back.
学区的要求是，父母不要送孩子去上学，大多数教职员工也不要去学校，但当停课决定做出的时候，很多人已在前往学校的途中，甚至已经到达学校。科蒂内斯等官员表示，学校把学生隔离在了建筑物之外，并请求家长来校园门口接孩子。学区的很多黄色校车当时也已出发去接学生，然后收到了返回通知。
The closings came as the region remained on edge after the terror attack in San Bernardino less than two weeks ago that left 14 people dead and 22 wounded. Over the last two weeks, there have been a number of bomb threats. But the authorities treated this one differently.
不到两周之前，圣贝纳迪诺的恐怖袭击造成了14人死亡，22人受伤，此后该地区气氛持续紧张。过去两周里，出现过多次炸弹威胁。但当局对本次威胁另眼相看。
“This is a rare threat,” Mr. Cortines said. “We get threats all the time.” Though he would not elaborate on why this one prompted such a strong response, he cited circumstances like the San Bernardino massacre and other events around the world.
“我们一直以来收到过不少威胁，但这次的威胁很罕见，”科蒂内斯说。他没有解释为什么这次会如临大敌，但他列举了圣贝纳迪诺的大规模枪击案和全球各地的其他一些事件。
In New York, Mayor Bill DeBlasio and Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said at a news conference that there was nothing to suggest that the threat was credible, and plenty to suggest that it was not.
在纽约，市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)和警察局局长威廉·J·布拉顿(William J. Bratton)在新闻发布会上表示，没有任何迹象表明这一威胁可信，反而有大量迹象表明它不可信。
“It was so generic, so outlandish, and posed to numerous school systems simultaneously,” Mr. de Blasio said. “Kids should be in school today. We will be vigilant. But we are absolutely convinced our schools are safe.”
“这个威胁太笼统，太离奇了，同时针对多个学区系统，”白思豪说。“孩子们今天应该待在学校里。我们会保持警惕。但是我们绝对相信学校是安全的。”
Mr. Bratton, a former Los Angeles police chief, said that threats were often made against New York City schools, and that they were assessed on a case-by-case basis. The threat made Tuesday, he said, resembled a story line from the television show “Homeland.” He suggested that Los Angeles schools officials had overreacted, and that they had made the decision without consulting law enforcement.
布拉顿之前曾在洛杉矶当过警察局长，他说针对纽约市学校的威胁经常出现，他们对此会进行逐个评估。他认为本周二的威胁类似于电视剧集《国土安全》(Homeland)的情节。布拉顿称，洛杉矶的教育官员反应过度，没有咨询执法部门的意见就做出了这样的决定。
Officials here rejected the suggestion. Mr. Cortines said he had learned of the threat from Steven K. Zipperman, chief of the school district’s police department, and he and Chief Zipperman said they had discussed how to respond before Mr. Cortines ordered the schools closed.
这里的官员则反驳了这种说法。科蒂内斯说，他是从学区的警长史蒂文·K·泽普曼(Steven K. Zipperman)那里得知这个威胁的，他在下令让学校停课之前，已经和泽普曼讨论了应对方式。
Chief Beck said that Chief Zipperman alerted the Los Angeles Police Department “late last night,” and that “we became very concerned, contacted the F.B.I.” He said he supported Mr. Cortines’s decision.
贝克表示，泽普曼在“深夜时分”向洛杉矶警察局发出了警告，“我们对此非常关注，联系了FBI，”他说自己支持科蒂内斯的决定。