It was almost a decade ago that Nora Ephron famously instructed “anyone young” to go put on a bikini and not take it off until age 34.
将近十年前，诺拉·埃夫隆(Nora Ephron)曾著名地建议“所有年轻人”都穿上比基尼，一直穿到34岁。
Jessica Knoll, the author of the best-selling novel “Luckiest Girl Alive,” is only 31. But this summer, instead of wearing a bikini poolside, she has chosen a black one-piece with a strappy back.
畅销小说《最幸运的女孩》(Luckiest Girl Alive)的作者杰西卡·诺尔(Jessica Knoll)只有31岁。但是今年夏天，她在泳池边穿的不是比基尼，而是背部为细带的黑色连体式泳衣。
“In my one-piece, I’m not thinking ‘Am I bloated?’ because most of the time I’m in a bathing suit, I’m drinking and eating,” said Ms. Knoll, who has been vacationing in Sag Harbor, N.Y.
“穿着连体泳衣，我不用担心‘自己是不是看起来很臃肿’。因为我穿泳衣的大部分时候都在吃喝，”诺尔说。当时她正在纽约州萨格港度假。
Sadie Kadlec, 28, an assistant for the fashion brand Paul Smith, is favoring the company’s striped, belted halter maillot that plunges to the navel; she bought it with her employee discount.
28岁的萨迪·卡德莱茨(Sadie Kadlec)是时装品牌保罗·史密斯(Paul Smith)的助理职员。她很喜欢该品牌的挂脖系带式条纹泳衣，前胸开叉至肚脐。她以员工折扣价买了一件。
“I have bikinis, but I usually opt for one-pieces because I find them to be more elegant, and they enhance your curves,” she said.
“我有很多比基尼，但我往往选择连体泳衣，因为我觉得它们更优雅，能更好地表现身体曲线，”她说。
And Katie Kannapell Ryser, 36, a stay-at-home mother, has become a convert from the Pucci string bikini to the one-piece, specifically the “swim dress” by Gottex.
36岁的凯蒂·坎纳佩尔·赖瑟(Katie Kannapell Ryser)是一位家庭主妇。她本来喜欢璞琪(Pucci)的细带比基尼，现在转而青睐连体泳衣，尤其是Gottex的“游泳连衣裙”。
“I am officially done with two-pieces,” she said, and not because of her age.
“我正式告别了分体式泳衣，”她说。不是因为年龄。
Since Brigitte Bardot’s heyday the bikini has symbolized glamour, youth and sex appeal. But the one-piece swimsuit, for years relied upon by fashionable women only to cover “mummy tummies” or as a practicality when swimming laps, has of late been gaining ground.
从碧姬·芭铎(Brigitte Bardot)的鼎盛时期起，比基尼就象征着魅力、年轻和性感。多年来，时尚女性们选择连体式泳衣只是为了遮掩“干瘪的肚子”或者是为了游泳方便。但是最近，它又重获青睐。
The mega-celebrity trifecta of Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and Rihanna has been pictured wearing one-pieces lately. So has Amy Schumer, the comedian and star of the hit movie “Trainwreck.” Even this year’s Sports Illustrated cover model, Hannah Davis, said she prefers one-pieces. (“Blasphemy,” bleated The Daily Caller.)
前不久，碧昂斯(Beyoncé)、泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)和蕾哈娜(Rihanna)这三位巨星被拍到身穿连体泳衣。还有主演热门影片《生活残骸》(Trainwreck)的喜剧演员埃米·舒默(Amy Schumer)。甚至连今年《体育画报》(Sports Illustrated)的封面模特汉娜·戴维斯(Hannah Davis)也说，她更喜欢连体泳衣（每日来电网站[The Daily Caller]居然斥之为“亵渎”）。
The market research firm NPD Group reports that in 2014 sales of one-pieces were up 16 percent, while two-pieces were up 8 percent.
市场调研公司NPD集团(NPD Group)报告称，2014年，连体泳衣的销量增长了16%，而分体泳衣只增长了8%。
And Lyst, a shopping site with over 12,000 brands, has found that in 2015 searches for one-pieces are up 56 percent from last year. This summer, 45 percent of the 128,000 or so bathing suits featured on Lyst were one-piece styles, compared to 28 percent in the summer of 2014. And of the six top-selling styles over the last month, half were maillots, including a black Robin Piccone crochet V-neck and a white Eres halter, according to the company.
购物网站Lyst供应超过1.2万个品牌，它发现，今年连体式泳衣的搜索量比去年增长了56%。今年夏天，Lyst上的约12.8万件泳衣中有45%是连体式泳衣；去年夏天，这个比例是28%。该公司称，上个月卖得最好的六个款式中有一半是连体式泳衣，包括罗宾·皮科内(Robin Piccone)的黑色V领钩织连体泳衣和Eres的白色挂脖式连体泳衣。
“It’s a fashion backlash to the teeny bikini,” Amahlia Stevens, founder of Vitamin A Swimwear, the manufacturer of Ms. Knoll’s maillot, suggested in an email from Norway.
“它是对小巧的比基尼的反击，”维生素A泳装公司(Vitamin A Swimwear)的创始人阿玛莉娅·史蒂文斯(Amahlia Stevens)说。从诺尔从挪威发来的邮件看，她穿的就是这家公司制造的连体泳装。
“Bikinis are made for lying perfectly still, not playing with your kids,” Ms. Ryser said on the phone from East Hampton, N.Y., where she is spending August with her two children. Lest there be any doubt, she added: “I’m not trying to cover up my body.”
“比基尼是为安静地平躺设计的，不适合在跟孩子们玩耍时穿，”赖瑟在电话采访中说。8月份，她正和两个孩子在纽约州东汉普顿度假。为了免除质疑，她补充说：“我不是为了遮住身体。”
Indeed, with a wider range of styles than in the past, many of today’s one-pieces are more revealing than many bikinis, whose bottoms have crept up to navel level recently among vintage-worshipping millennials (notably Katy Perry, who is also mixing it up with a maillot).
的确，如今的泳衣款式更多，很多连体式泳衣比很多比基尼还暴露。最近，有些喜欢复古款式的千禧一代所穿的比基尼短裤与肚脐齐平（比较出名的是凯蒂·佩里[Katy Perry]，她还喜欢把比基尼跟连体式泳衣混搭起来）。
“I think for lack of a better term, there are more ‘sexy’ one-pieces that have cutouts, peekaboo details and crochet that appeal equally to the two-piece wearer,” said Sabra Krock, who owns Everything but Water, a swimwear-focused chain with 95 locations. Ms. Krock said her company, which also sells online, has seen an uptick in one-pieces over the last few years, though she declined to provide sales figures.
“由于没有更好的表达方式，我只能说，现在有更多‘性感的’连体式泳衣，它们有更多剪切和若隐若现的细节以及钩织法，看起来和分体式泳衣一样迷人，”泳衣连锁店Everything but Water的老板萨布拉·克罗克(Sabra Krock)说。该公司在美国有95家分店，也在网上销售。克罗克说，在过去几年里，该公司连体式泳衣的销量在上涨，不过她拒绝提供销售数字。
Certainly, at a moment when so many are stripping down for the world to see on social media, it can seem more thoughtful and distinctive to show some restraint.
当然，在这么多人宽衣解带以博得社交媒体的更多关注时，收敛一点会显得更有深度，更独特。
“I don’t need to put everything on display,” said Ms. Knoll, who posted a photograph of herself on Instagram in her suit, adding that a bit less exposure is not dowdy. “I don’t feel like I’m wasting my youthful body.”
“我不需要把什么都露出来，”诺尔说。她在Instagram上发布了一张自己身穿泳装的照片。她补充说，少露一点，不会显得过时。“我没觉得自己在浪费年轻的身体。”
Marysia Dobrzanska Reeves, the founder of Marysia Swimwear in Santa Monica, Calif., is selling more maillots.
玛丽西娅·德布赞斯卡·里夫斯(Marysia Dobrzanska Reeves)是加利福尼亚州圣莫尼卡玛丽西娅泳装公司(Marysia Swimwear)的创始人。该公司连体式泳衣的销量正在上涨。
“They are no longer just seen for older women who are trying to cover up,” she said.
“连体式泳衣不再只是为年龄较大、想把身体遮起来的女人设计的，”她说。
Fetneh Blake, who owns a high-end fashion boutique in Laguna Beach, Calif., said that over the last three years she has added a lot of one-pieces, mostly by Eres and Vitamin A, to her own wardrobe — and more for the sake of intrigue than modesty.
菲特尼·布莱克(Fetneh Blake)在加州拉古纳比奇拥有一家高档时装精品店。她说，在过去三年里，她给自己的衣橱添了很多连体式泳衣，大多是Eres和维生素A牌的，不是为了低调，而是为了吸引人。
“I think sometimes they are more daring,” Ms. Blake said. “There is a sense of mystery there that there isn’t with a bikini.”
“我觉得有些连体式泳衣更大胆，”布莱克说，“它们具有比基尼所缺乏的神秘感。”