There are three things we know about man-made global warming. First, the consequences will be terrible if we don’t take quick action to limit carbon emissions. Second, in pure economic terms the required action shouldn’t be hard to take: emission controls, done right, would probably slow economic growth, but not by much. Third, the politics of action are nonetheless very difficult.
对于人为的全球变暖，我们知道三点。首先，如果我们不快速采取行动来限制碳排放，后果将非常可怕。其次，单纯从经济角度来看，要采取所需的行动并不困难：控制排放——如果能用正确的方式施行——可能会使经济增速放缓，但是幅度不会太大。第三，围绕着减排行动的政治斗争仍然非常复杂。
But why is it so hard to act? Is it the power of vested interests?
那么，行动起来为什么如此艰难？是否与既得利益者的影响力有关？
I’ve been looking into that issue and have come to the somewhat surprising conclusion that it’s not mainly about the vested interests. They do, of course, exist and play an important role; funding from fossil-fuel interests has played a crucial role in sustaining the illusion that climate science is less settled than it is. But the monetary stakes aren’t nearly as big as you might think. What makes rational action on climate so hard is something else — a toxic mix of ideology and anti-intellectualism.
我一直在研究这个问题，而且还得出了一个多少令人惊讶的结论，即主要问题不在于既得利益者。当然，他们的确存在，而且还扮演着重要角色；化石燃料利益团体所提供的资金在维持气候科学并无定论的错觉的过程中发挥了关键作用。但是，这里的经济利益并不如想象得那么大。对气候问题采取理性行动之所以如此困难，其实另有原因——意识形态与反智主义的恶性结合。
Before I get to that, however, an aside on the economics.
不过，在阐述这一点之前，我先来算算经济帐。
I’ve noted in earlier columns that every even halfway serious study of the economic impact of carbon reductions — including the recent study paid for by the anti-environmental U.S. Chamber of Commerce — finds at most modest costs. Practical experience points in the same direction. Back in the 1980s conservatives claimed that any attempt to limit acid rain would have devastating economic effects; in reality, the cap-and-trade system for sulfur dioxide was highly successful at minimal cost. The Northeastern states have had a cap-and-trade arrangement for carbon since 2009, and so far have seen emissions drop sharply while their economies grew faster than the rest of the country. Environmentalism is not the enemy of economic growth.
我曾在较早的专栏文章中指出，关于碳减排的经济影响的每项研究均发现，所付代价相当有限，就连不怎么严谨的研究也不例外，例如最近由反环保的美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)资助的一项研究。实践经验也指向同一结论。20世纪80年代，保守派宣称，限制酸雨的举动将带来毁灭性的经济影响；而事实上，二氧化硫的限额交易系统以极低的代价取得了极大成功。自2009年开始，东北部各州对碳排放采取了限额交易制度，如今，当地碳排放量已经显著降低，同时经济的增长速度也比美国其他地方快。环保并不是经济增长的敌人。
But wouldn’t protecting the environment nonetheless impose costs on some sectors and regions? Yes, it would — but not as much as you think.
虽说如此，保护环境是否需要一些领域或地区付出代价呢？的确会，但这个代价并不如想象中那么高。
Consider, in particular, the much-hyped “war on coal.” It’s true that getting serious about global warming means, above all, cutting back on (and eventually eliminating) coal-fired power, which would hurt regions of the country that depend on coal-mining jobs. What’s rarely pointed out is how few such jobs still exist.
特别是，想想甚嚣尘上的“对煤炭宣战”论。的确，严肃对待全球变暖就意味着，要减少（并最终消除）煤炭能源，而这将对美国靠采煤来提供就业岗位的部分地区造成损害。但是，这种工作已很少存在的事实却不常被提起。
Once upon a time King Coal was indeed a major employer: At the end of the 1970s there were more than 250,000 coal miners in America. Since then, however, coal employment has fallen by two-thirds, not because output is down — it’s up, substantially — but because most coal now comes from strip mines that require very few workers. At this point, coal mining accounts for only one-sixteenth of 1 percent of overall U.S. employment; shutting down the whole industry would eliminate fewer jobs than America lost in an average week during the Great Recession of 2007-9.
曾经，能源之王煤炭的确是个大雇主：20世纪70年代末，美国有超过25万名煤矿工人。然而从那时开始，煤炭行业从业人数减少了三分之二，这并非因为产量降低——其实是大幅度提高了——而是因为现在，大多数煤炭都来自不需要多少工人的露天矿。目前，煤炭开采行业在全美国就业人数中只占0.06%；关闭整个行业所减少的就业岗位，其实少于2007年至2009年经济大衰退期间美国每周减少的岗位。
Or put it this way: The real war on coal, or at least on coal workers, took place a generation ago, waged not by liberal environmentalists but by the coal industry itself. And coal workers lost.
或者这样说：针对煤炭行业的真正战争，或者至少是针对煤炭工人的战争，发生于一代人以前，而它的实施者不是自由派环保人士，而是煤炭行业自身。煤炭工人最终战败。
The owners of coal mines and coal-fired power plants do have a financial interest in blocking environmental policy, but even there the special interests don’t look all that big. So why is the opposition to climate policy so intense?
煤矿和煤电厂的所有者之所以抵制环保政策，的确与他们的经济利益有关，但是即便在这方面，特殊利益看起来也并不太大。那么，对气候政策的反对为何如此强烈呢？
Well, think about global warming from the point of view of someone who grew up taking Ayn Rand seriously, believing that the untrammeled pursuit of self-interest is always good and that government is always the problem, never the solution. Along come some scientists declaring that unrestricted pursuit of self-interest will destroy the world, and that government intervention is the only answer. It doesn’t matter how market-friendly you make the proposed intervention; this is a direct challenge to the libertarian worldview.
试着换个角度看待全球变暖。有些人从小就非常尊崇安·兰德(Ayn Rand)，认为不受限制地追求个人利益总是好的，政府则一直是问题所在，而非解决方案。结果，却有些科学家宣称，无拘无束地追求个人利益将毁灭世界，而政府干预是唯一的答案。不论你提出的干预方案多么有利于市场运作，这都是对自由意志派世界观的直接挑战。
And the natural reaction is denial — angry denial. Read or watch any extended debate over climate policy and you’ll be struck by the venom, the sheer rage, of the denialists.
他们的自然反应就是拒绝承认——愤怒地拒绝。看看任何关于气候政策的大规模争论，否定者那种强烈的敌意和不加掩饰的愤怒绝对会令你震惊。
The fact that climate concerns rest on scientific consensus makes things even worse, because it plays into the anti-intellectualism that has always been a powerful force in American life, mainly on the right. It’s not really surprising that so many right-wing politicians and pundits quickly turned to conspiracy theories, to accusations that thousands of researchers around the world were colluding in a gigantic hoax whose real purpose was to justify a big-government power grab. After all, right-wingers never liked or trusted scientists in the first place.
气候方面的担忧来自科学共识的事实也使事情变得更加糟糕，因为它正好会撞到反智主义的枪口上。反智主义一直是美国的一股强大力量，而且主要来自右翼。不足为奇的是，如此多右翼政客和学究迅速诉诸阴谋论，谴责世界各地的成千上万名研究人员在相互勾结，营造一个巨大的骗局，其实是想为大政府夺权正名。毕竟，右翼人士从来就没有喜欢过或信任过科学家。