Want better sex? Consider getting a new hip or knee.
想要享受更加销魂的性爱么？请考虑换一副全新的髋关节或膝关节吧。
Before Mary Ann Oklesson, a Manhattan magazine publisher, had both hips replaced a few years ago, the pain of arthritis made it difficult to walk, exercise or even climb into a taxi. Her failing hips had also taken a toll on her sex life.
几年前，在曼哈顿的杂志出版商玛丽·安·奥克莱森(Mary Ann Oklesson)接受双侧髋关节置换术之前，关节炎的疼痛令她难以行走和锻炼，甚至连上出租车都成为一件难事。髋关节的功能缺陷令她在性生活方面也付出了代价。
“Sex was somewhat painful,” said Ms. Oklesson, now in her early 60s. “You have to be more cautious. If I had to pick my leg up to put it in a cab, you can imagine what sex was like. I just wasn’t quite as nimble.”
“做爱的时候总是会疼，让人不得不小心翼翼，”60岁出头的奥克莱森女士说：“如果你见过我艰难地抬腿迈上出租车时的样子，你就能想象出我在性爱中会是怎么一番窘态。我的肢体不够灵活。”
But all that changed after hip replacement surgery. “It definitely improved my quality of life, and my love life,” she says.
但在接受了髋关节置换术后，一切都不一样了。“这绝对改善了我的生活质量，以及我的爱情生活，”她说。
While researchers have long known that hip and knee replacement leads to less pain and improved mobility, new research shows that the surgery offers an unexpected bonus in the bedroom. Among 147 patients who had joint replacement surgery in New York, most said arthritis had interfered with their sex lives, according to research presented last month at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons. After surgery, 81 percent of those patients who had said their sex lives had suffered as a result of a bad joint reported that the frequency of sexual activity had increased.
虽然研究人员们早就知道，髋关节和膝关节置换术可缓解疼痛并改善身体灵活性，但新的研究表明，该手术还可为“卧室运动”提供意想不到的惊喜。据上个月在美国骨科医师学会(American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons)年会上发表的一项研究称，在147名在纽约接受关节置换术的患者中，大多数人都表示关节炎曾对他们的性生活造成了干扰，在这些患者中，有81%报告在手术后性行为频率有所增加。
Many reported an increase in libido and stamina and an improvement in their ability to climax. The benefits were especially pronounced among patients whose complaint had been failing hips, as well as women, who reported the most discomfort during sex because of painful joints.
许多人报告他们的性欲和耐久力都有所增加，达到高潮的能力也有所改善。在主诉髋关节功能缺陷的患者，以及报告由于关节疼痛而在性活动时非常不适的女性中，这一收益尤其明显。
“If achieving a position in sexual function is very uncomfortable, it’s unlikely to be fruitful in terms of achieving climax,” said Dr. José A. Rodriguez, director of the Center for Joint Preservation and Reconstruction at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York and lead author of the study. “It’s like walking around with a rock in your shoe. It’s just not fun.”
“如果在性活动中，实现某一体位令人非常不适，那么就不太容易有效地达到高潮，”纽约莱诺克斯山医院(Lenox Hill Hospital)关节保留和重建中心(Center for Joint Preservation and Reconstruction)主任，该研究的主要作者荷塞·A·罗德里格斯(José A. Rodriguez)博士说，“就像走路时鞋里有颗石子，怎么都觉得不舒坦。”
Hip replacement surgery has risen 85 percent in the past decade, with doctors performing more than 300,000 procedures in 2010, the latest year for which statistics are available. But these are not your grandmother’s hips. Much of the increase in hip surgery has been fueled by active middle-age adults, 45 to 65. In that age group, hip replacements have nearly tripled to 128,000 during the same period.
在过去的10年中，髋关节置换术的数量增加了85%。在统计数据可查的最近一年，即2010年中，医生们就进行了超过30万例此类手术。但接受该手术的并非全都是老年人。45至65岁的中年患者在很大程度上推动了髋关节手术量的增加——在同一时期内，该年龄组的髋关节置换术数量增加至原来的近三倍，即12.8万例。
Dr. Claudette Lajam, an orthopedic surgeon at the Center for Musculoskeletal Care at NYU Langone Medical Center, said that so many patients have questions about intimacy after joint replacement that she had added a page to her Web site devoted to sex.
纽约大学朗格尼医学中心(Langone Medical Center)肌肉骨骼护理中心(Center for Musculoskeletal Care)的骨科医师克劳德特·拉贾姆(Claudette Lajam)博士表示，有相当多的患者就关节置换术后的性关系提出询问，因此她在自己的网站上专门添加了一张网页来探讨有关性的问题。
“That page gets the most hits of any page on my Web site,” Dr. Lajam said. “There are a lot of people who get back out there, or get closer to their spouse, because they’ve been unable to participate in that intimacy for a while. Just the relief of pain itself improves the relationship.”
“在我的网站上，这个网页的点击率最高，”拉贾姆博士说，“有很多人在接受治疗后都与他们的配偶更加亲近，因为他们已经有好一阵子无法进行性行为了。仅仅是缓解疼痛本身也可以改善亲密关系。”
That was the case for D’Arcy Achziger, an apparel sales director in New York who opted for knee replacement two years ago with Dr. Lajam after suffering from excruciating pain during walking and other activities. “If your knee hurts to bend, that causes an adjustment in one’s personal life,” Ms. Achziger said.
达西·艾奇西格(D’Arcy Achziger)就是这样的一个例子。艾奇西格女士是纽约的一名服装销售总监，由于在行走和从事其它活动时持续遭受着难以忍受的疼痛，两年前，她选择接受由拉贾姆博士主刀的膝关节置换术。“如果你的膝盖一打弯就疼，这绝对会影响你的私人生活。”艾奇西格女士说。
After surgery, “my husband was thrilled,” said Ms. Achziger, who has been married for 24 years. “I had been cranky, just so crabby because it hurt. I was much more pleasant after surgery, and it made his life so much nicer.”
手术后，“我的丈夫高兴极了，”结婚24年的艾奇西格女士说，“疼痛令我一度性情暴躁。但在手术后，我的心情愉快多了，这让他的生活也舒心了不少。”
Dr. Charles Cornell, clinical director of orthopedic surgery at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York, said some patients are hesitant to talk about the toll joint pain can take on their sex life.
纽约特种外科医院(Hospital for Special Surgery)的骨科临床主任查尔斯·康奈尔(Charles Cornell)博士表示，一些患者不太愿意谈及关节疼痛对他们的性生活造成的恶果。
“It’s certainly a topic that is on everyone’s mind, but it’s not a topic that is always spoken about openly,” said Dr. Cornell. “It’s especially important to our younger patients, but believe it or not, I’ve had patients in their 80s who this has been a topic for. If one member of a partnership becomes disabled, it does challenge the partnership.”
“当然，人人都会考虑这个问题，但这毕竟不是一个经常公开谈论的话题，”康奈尔博士说，“它对于较为年轻的患者特别重要。但信不信由你，在我的患者中，也有人年逾80岁后仍在关注这个问题。如果伴侣中有一方身患残疾，必定会对两人的关系提出挑战。”
Kenneth Weinberg, a New York emergency room physician, had his right hip replaced in February. He said he has already noticed an improvement in his social life. “I have a number of really good friends in the city,” he said. “I love to visit them and walk around, but I wasn’t able to.”
纽约的急诊室医师肯尼思·温伯格(Kenneth Weinberg)在2月接受了右侧髋关节置换术。他已经发现自己的社会生活大有改善。“在这个城市里，我有一些真正的好朋友，”他说，“我很愿意去拜访他们，或者四处逛逛，可惜我一直心有余而力不足。”
Recently, he walked with a friend through Chelsea visiting art shows. “It was so liberating for me,” he said. “It was my first trip out, and we had such a great time.”
最近，他跟一个朋友在切尔西区漫步，参观艺术展览。“我觉得自己好像获得了解放，”他说，“这是我第一次外出旅行，我们度过了非常美好的时光。”
Shelly Bleier, 70, a New York real estate agent, said she has always been so active and fit that people think she is 15 years younger. However, the excruciating pain of an arthritic hip began taking a toll on her work and social life. “When you are in pain, you don’t want to date, you don’t want to go anywhere,” she said. “When you need a hip replacement, the thought of even going downstairs or to the mailbox is hard.”
现年70岁的纽约房地产经纪人谢利·布莱尔(Shelly Bleier)表示，她曾经是那样的活跃而健康，人们都认为她比实际上年轻15岁。但髋关节炎造成的剧痛开始影响她的工作和社交。“当你在忍受疼痛时，你不想去约会，你不想去任何地方，”她说，“当连想想下楼或去邮箱取邮件之类的念头都让你痛苦时，你就需要进行髋关节置换术了。”
Ms. Bleier said that six months after hip surgery, her physician, Dr. Douglas Padgett at the Hospital for Special Surgery, noted that she still needed to improve the flexibility of her new hip. She laughed when he wrote her a prescription that said “Get boyfriend.”
布莱尔女士说，在髋关节手术后六个月时，她的医生，特种外科医院的道格拉斯·帕吉特(Douglas Padgett)博士指出，她仍然需要进一步增加她的新髋关节的灵活性。当看到他给她开的处方是“找个男朋友”时，她不禁莞尔。
But as it happened, Ms. Bleier said, she recently began an intimate relationship with a longtime friend, something that would have been hindered by her old, arthritic hip. “With the new hip, I felt like I was 40 years old,” she said.
碰巧，她最近刚开始跟一个老朋友坠入爱河，布莱尔女士说，如果她没有换掉过去那个患有关节炎的髋关节，这事情恐怕就不会进展得这么顺利。“现在有了新的髋关节，我感觉自己只有40岁，”她说。
During a return visit to Dr. Padgett recently, she shared the news. “By the way,” she told him, “I had your prescription filled.”
在最近一次到帕吉特博士处回访时，她向他分享了这一消息。“顺便说一下，”她告诉他，“我已经照你的处方抓药啦。”