BOGOTÁ, Colombia — Between 1995 and 2003, I served two terms as mayor of Bogotá. Like most cities in the world, Colombia’s capital had a great many problems that needed fixing and few people believed they could be fixed.
哥伦比亚波哥大——在1995年至2003年之间，我担任过两届波哥大市市长。像全世界大多数城市一样，哥伦比亚的首都有很多亟待解决的问题，而很少有人相信这些问题能够解决。
As a professor of philosophy, I had little patience with conventional wisdom. When I was threatened by the leftist guerrilla group known as FARC, as hundreds of Colombian mayors were, I decided to wear a bulletproof vest. But mine had a hole cut in the shape of a heart over my chest. I wore that symbol of confidence, or defiance, for nine months.
作为一名哲学教授，我对常规思维没什么耐心。哥伦比亚数百名市长受到名叫FARC的左翼游击队的威胁，我也不例外，于是我穿上了防弹背心。但我的防弹背心上，在胸口的位置剪出了一个心形的洞，我穿了它九个月，以此显示信心，或者说不屑。
Here’s what I learned: People respond to humor and playfulness from politicians. It’s the most powerful tool for change we have.
我学到了这样一课：民众会对政治人物的幽默和玩笑做出回应。这是我们实现变革最有力的工具。
Bogotá’s traffic was chaotic and dangerous when I came to office. We decided the city needed a radical new approach to traffic safety. Among various strategies, we printed and distributed hundreds of thousands of “citizens’ cards,” which had a thumbs-up image on one side to flash at courteous drivers, and a thumbs-down on the other to express disapproval. Within a decade, traffic fatalities fell by more than half.
在我上台时，波哥大的交通十分混乱和危险。我们决定，这座城市需要对交通安全采取激进的改革。我们采取的各种策略中，包括印刷数十万张“市民卡”，并分发给民众。卡片上一面有大拇指朝上的图案，可以向礼貌的司机展示，另一面则是拇指向下的图案，用来表示不满。十年后，交通事故死亡率下降了超过一半。
Another initiative in a small area of the city was to replace corrupt traffic police officers with mime artists. The idea was that instead of cops handing out tickets and pocketing fines, these performers would “police” drivers’ behavior by communicating with mime — for instance, pretending to be hurt or offended when a vehicle ignored the pedestrian right of way in a crosswalk. Could this system, which boiled down to publicly signaled approval or disapproval, really work?
在市内的一小片区域实行的另一个项目，是将腐败的交通警察撤下，换上哑剧演员。具体设想是，不再让警察开出罚单并吞没罚款，而是让这些演员通过哑剧动作传达信息，对司机的行为“执法”，比如车辆在斑马线上无视行人的权利时，装出受伤或者生气的样子。这套体系的核心是公开表达认可或不认可，可它真的管用吗？
We had plenty of skeptics. At a news conference, a journalist asked, “Can the mimes serve traffic fines?” That is legally impermissible, I answered. “Then it won’t work,” he declared.
我们受到了很多人的怀疑。在一场新闻发布会上，一名记者问我，“哑剧演员能收交通罚款吗？”我回答，法律上不允许。他宣称：“那就不会管用。”
But change is possible. People began to obey traffic signals and, for the first time, they respected crosswalks. Within months, I was able to dissolve the old, corrupt transit police force of about 1,800 officers, arranging with the national police service to replace them.
然而转变是可能的。人们开始遵守交通信号，而且他们也首次开始尊重斑马线。在几个月的时间里，我解散了有1800名警员的交通警察，并与国家警察部门达成安排，由他们取代腐败的旧交警队伍。
I also learned as mayor that it is valuable to speak always as if your worst enemies are listening to you. New uses of old words are always ready to dance with you. If you can, play a little: Announce new taxes, and smile gently.
我作为市长还学到一个宝贵的经验，讲话时一直都要以为，你最大的敌人在听你讲话。你可以手到擒来地运用老词的新涵义。你或许可以试着玩一玩，比如宣布开征新税，然后和善地微笑。
I was elected twice, in fact, on a platform to increase taxes. During my second term, the City Council refused to approve the increase, so I invited citizens to pay “voluntary taxes” — in Spanish, “impuestos voluntarios,” or voluntary impositions, which is a lovely contradiction. Sixty-three thousand households went along with the joke and paid 10 percent more than they owed, mostly in real estate tax.
我当选两次，实际上靠的是增税的政纲。在我的第二个任期，市政府拒绝批准增税，于是我邀请市民缴纳“自愿税金”——西班牙语叫“impuestos voluntarios”，意思是“自愿的义务”，这真是一个可爱的矛盾。有6.3万个家庭接受了这个笑话，比应纳税额多缴纳了10%，主要是通过物业税。
I won’t claim that we succeeded in everything, but we did bring change where change seemed impossible. Things worked because people cooperated, and they did so because they were astonished at their own power. Hope that delivered results generated more hope. Show me a city with a thousand problems, and I’ll show you 10,000 people who can solve them.
我不敢宣称我们所有事都成功了，但是我们的确在看似不可能发生改变的地方带来了改变。事情能够做成是因为民众的合作，而他们这样做是因为对自己的力量感到惊奇。希望如果能产生结果，就能激发出更多希望。给我一个有一千种问题的城市，我就能给你一万个可以解决问题的民众。
When the city faced a critical water shortage, I made a public commitment: There would be no traditional rationing to manage the crisis, no cutting of supply. Instead, we set a goal of voluntary conservation of 12 to 20 percent; ultimately we achieved savings of 8 to 16 percent. To inform people of this policy, we replaced the busy signal on people’s telephones with a public message, either in my voice or that of the Colombian pop star Shakira, saying, “Thank you for saving water.”
这座城市面临严峻的水资源短缺问题时，我公开作出了承诺：不会用传统的配给方式应对危机，不会切断供水。我们设置了自愿节约12%至20%的目标，最终我们实现了8%至16%的节约。为了向民众通知这项政策，我们把电话的忙音换成了公共通知，要么是我的声音，要么是哥伦比亚流行歌手夏奇拉(Shakira)的声音说，“感谢您节约用水”。
We published information about how to save water, and many families discussed and devised their own options for reducing consumption. Even as we increased the provision of water and sanitation to nearly all households in Bogotá, water consumption went down. It remains lower today than before the crisis, thanks to the good practices that we stimulated.
我们发布了公告，指导如何节水，许多家庭也都议论纷纷，制定了自己节约用水的办法。尽管我们向波哥大的所有家庭都增加了供水规模、提高了公共卫生水平，但水资源消耗还是下降了。直到今天，水资源消耗仍然低于危机以前，原因就在于我们促使民众采取了良好做法。
This illustrates another lesson we learned. It helps to develop short, pleasing experiences for people that generate stories of delightful surprise, moments of mutual admiration among citizens and the welcome challenge of understanding something new. But then you need to consolidate those stories with good statistical results obtained through cold, rational measurement. That creates a virtuous cycle, so that congenial new experiences lead to statistically documented improvements, and the documentation raises expectations for more welcome change.
这体现了我学到的另一个经验。为民众提供一些简短、愉悦的体验，从而让民众相互讲述惊喜的故事、互相欣赏，进而面对理解新事物的可喜挑战。不过，之后需要通过一些冰冷、理性的度量，取得一些积极的统计数据来佐证那些故事。这就促成了良性循环，于是令人愉悦的新体验就促成了有统计数据记录的改进，而这些记录又会激发民众期待更有益的转变。
The art of politics is a curious business. It combines, as no other profession or occupation does, rigorous reasoning, sincere emotions and extroverted body language, with what are sometimes painfully cold, slow and planned strategic interactions. It is about leading, but not directing: What people love most is when you write on the blackboard a risky first half of a sentence and then recognize their freedom to write the other half.
政治这门艺术实在颇为有趣。它与其他职业或行当都不同，要将缜密的推论、真挚的情感、外向的肢体语言，与时常令人痛苦的冷峻、迟缓、精心谋划的策略互动糅合在一起。政治关乎领导，但并不是指挥：人们最喜爱的是，你在黑板上写出含有风险的前半句话，之后认识到他们有写下后半句话的自由。
My main theoretical and practical concern has been how to use the force of social and moral regulation to obtain the rule of law. This entailed a fundamental respect for human lives, expressed in the dictum “Life is sacred.” My purpose was to create a cosmopolitan culture of citizenship in which expressions like “crimes against humanity” would find a precise operational meaning.
我在理论上和实践中主要关心的，一直是如何利用社会和道德规范的力量实现法治。这需要对人的生命表现出最根本的尊重，就像一句格言所说，“生命是神圣的。”我的目标是，创造一种公民身份的世界主义文化，在这一文化中，诸如“反人类罪”这样的词汇将具备明确的操作意义。
Perhaps it’s time to look again at the law and its fraying fabric. My experience suggests that humanity is learning three ways of reducing the gap between the formal field of law and the informal realm of culture: a more creative enforcement of the law, the careful reform of the law itself, and the aesthetic exploration of the possibility of forms of empathy that can transcend national boundaries.
也许是时候再次正视法律体系及其被磨损的肌理。我的经历说明，人类正在掌握三种方法以缩小正规法律领域和非正规文化领域之间存在的鸿沟：更具创意性的执法方式，法律本身的谨慎改革，以及对可以跨越民族隔阂的移情能力的各种可能形式的美好探索。
Changing a city is not the greatest political challenge; sustaining that change is. I used to have a Darwinian attitude toward politics: Just let ideas that are not sufficiently strong perish. Today, I realize that strong ideas can perish, too.
改变一个城市并不是最大的政治挑战，保持这些改变才是。我曾经对政治持有一种达尔文式的态度：就让那些不够强大的观念自生自灭。如今，我意识到，有力的观念也会消亡。
As quickly as a city can progress, it can also fail. But never forget that huge changes can be achieved through surprisingly small steps.
一座城市的进步能有多快，其失败就能多快。但是永远不要忘记，巨大的改变可以通过小得惊人的步伐一点点实现。