Three residential towers in the notoriously crime-ridden, impoverished Bayview Hunters Point neighborhood opened earlier this year, the first signs of efforts to overhaul the area.
在声名狼藉、犯罪率居高不下的贫困社区湾景猎人区(Bayview Hunters Point)，有三座高层住宅大楼已于今年初开盘发售，这是该区即将经历整顿的第一个迹象。
Not so long ago, the public housing project known as Hunters View that is being replaced by the new development was ranked worst in the nation in a 2007 survey by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development.
新开发的楼盘取代了之前的公共住房项目。不久之前，根据2007年联邦住房和城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)的一项调查，这个名为“Hunters View”的公共住房项目在全国的排名最差。
City housing officials are going so far as to re-brand the buildings as an $84 million effort to rehabilitate this southern tip of the city, where gang activity, violence and high unemployment have been intractable.
在旧金山南部，黑帮活动、暴力和高失业率一直难以治理。为了整治这片地区，城市房管官员投入了8400万美元（约合人民币5亿元），他们甚至将开发楼盘也作为整治行动的一部分。
The goal, according to city housing officials, is to reinvent an isolated island of poverty into a “mixed-income” neighborhood with sophisticated architecture and a coherent urban design.
据房管官员表示，开发楼盘的目的，是为了将一座贫困的孤岛，重塑为建筑构造精巧、城市设计井然的“混合收入”社区。
Plans for Hunters View call for the replacement of all 267 low-income units on site, plus 530 new market-rate rentals and condos. The developers are a venture of three private firms, the John Stewart Company, Devine & Gong and the Ridge Point Non-Profit Housing Corporation. The overall effort is overseen by the city. The total project, slated for completion in 2017, has an estimated cost of $500 million.
Hunters View项目拟将267套面向低收入人群的住宅单元全部就地改建，同时新建530套按市价交易的出租屋和共管公寓(condo)。开发商是三家私人企业，它们分别是约翰·斯图尔特公司(John Stewart Company)、Devine & Gong和Ridge Point非营利住房公司(Ridge Point Non-Profit Housing Corporation)。工程进度由市政府监督。整个项目定于2017年完工，预计耗资5亿美元（约合人民币31亿元）。
All the earlier buildings, a loose-knit group of wooden rowhouses, had been built in the 1950s on the foundations of World War II-era barracks for shipyard workers. Arranged haphazardly on different parts of a steep hillside, the rowhouses lacked any unified relationship to one another and as such were difficult to protect against crime. All the original buildings are to be demolished.
此地的原有建筑，是一片布局松散的联排木房，始建于20世纪50年代，地基是二战时期的船厂工房留下的。这些联排房屋杂乱无章地分布在陡峭山坡的不同区域，彼此之间缺少联系，因而难以预防犯罪。这批建筑将被全部拆除。
The new master plan, prepared by a local architect, Daniel Solomon, gives the area a regular street grid, as well as a new public park. Social services like child care and job training are available on the site of the new towers. The developers also have provided retail space for two or three stores, to offer residents better access to possible amenities like a convenience store.
新项目的总体规划由当地建筑师丹尼尔·所罗门(Daniel Solomon)筹备，该方案在该区内设计了规整的方格式街道布局，和一座新的公共公园。儿童保育、职业培训等社会服务将开设在新建的大楼内。开发商还提供了租赁空间，可入驻两、三家商铺，以使居民们有更多配套设施可用，比如便利店。
And to try to improve access of residents from this isolated section to the rest of the city, the urban design includes new road connections between local streets and city thoroughfares.
为了方便居民从这个相对隔绝的地区前往市区其它地方，城市设计方案还包括修建新的道路，连通当地街道与城市主干道。
Both the buildings and the master plan seek to emulate the San Francisco style of urban design, emphasizing both density and verticality, according to Mr. Solomon. He and a colleague, Anne Torney, also designed two of the new buildings. (Mr. Solomon and Ms. Torney, now partners at Mithun Solomon, designed the buildings while employed at WRT Solomon Etc. A third building was designed by Paulett Taggart Architects of San Francisco.
所罗门表示，新楼盘和总体规划都着力于模仿旧金山式的城市设计风格，既注重密度，又注重垂直要素。他和同事安妮·托尼(Anne Torney)还设计了新大楼中的两座。当时他们是WRT Solomon Etc的员工，如今则是Mithun Solomon的合伙人。第三座大楼则由旧金山的Paulett Taggart Architects设计。
In an acknowledgment that the neighborhood is still quite unsafe, security measures have been included for prospective tenants: Residents have electronic key cards to open doors, while the window glass is bulletproof.
考虑到该社区依然不太安全，面向潜在租户的安保措施也包含在了设计方案内：居民使用电子钥匙卡开门，玻璃窗采用了防弹设计。
The Bayview Hunters Point public housing site “typifies all the challenges of trying to create an economically integrated neighborhood,” according to Olson Lee, director of the Mayor’s Office of Housing and head of the HOPE SF program, a city public housing renewal program.
奥尔森·李(Olson Lee)是市长住房办公室(Mayor's Office of Housing)主任、也是旧金山住房项目HOPE SF的负责人。他表示，湾景猎人区的公共住房地区，集中反映了建立混合收入社区的所有挑战。
A majority of the residents are young, poorly educated and unemployed. At least half of the project’s 700 residents are under the age of 18, according to the city’s Housing Authority. Murder and drug use rates are among the highest in the city, according to figures cited by the San Francisco district attorney’s office.
大多数居民都很年轻，文化水平较低，又没有工作。根据本市房管部门的数据，该项目涉及的700户居民中，至少有半数年龄在18岁以下。根据旧金山地方检察官办公室援引的数据，该地区的谋杀率和吸毒率在本市都是最高的。
The mix of social ills in one place is “a recipe for disaster,” conceded Jack D. Gardner, chief executive of John Stewart.
各种社会弊病交织在一起，会成为“滋生灾难的温床”，约翰·斯图尔特公司的首席执行官杰克·D·加德纳(Jack D. Gardner)坦言道。
Dilapidated housing conditions worsened the problems. “The facilities were old and there were no funds to maintain them,” Mr. Lee said. The seemingly random placement of the old buildings on different terraces of a steep hillside turned the area into a “no man’s land,” in terms of security, according to Mr. Lee.
破败不堪的住房设施加剧了这些问题。“这些设施年久失修，而且没有维护资金，”李说，他还表示，从安保角度讲，年久失修的住房看起来十分杂乱地散布在陡峭山坡的不同台地上，这使该地区成为了“无主之地”。
The construction of Hunters View has taken more than 10 years, starting with three successive applications by the city to the federal HOPE VI program before 2003, all of which were rejected. Administered by HUD, the HOPE VI program was well received by city planners and public officials because of its strategy for converting public housing developments, restricted to low-income renters, into mixed-income communities that included for-sale units.
Hunters View的建设，已经耗费了超过十年时间，起始于2003年以前。当时，市政府先后向联邦HOPE VI项目提出了三项申请，均未通过。这个HOPE VI项目，由联邦住房和城市发展局管理，在城市规划师和公职人员中广受欢迎。因为它包含一项战略，那就是将原本只面向低收入租户的公共住房项目，转变成混合收入社区，社区中包含可以出售的住宅单元。
One goal of HOPE VI was to provide stability to the communities through homeownership. (By itself, San Francisco has been the beneficiary of five HOPE VI projects.) Despite its acclaim, however, Congress halted funding for the program in 2010, Mr. Lee said.
HOPE VI的目标之一就是让人们有房住，从而维护社区稳定（旧金山本身就一直受惠于HOPE VI的五个项目）。李表示，尽管该项目广受赞誉，但是，国会还是在2010年停发了对项目的拨款。
In 2006, San Francisco undertook to rebuild the derelict neighborhood on its own, under a city program called HOPE SF, in homage to the mothballed federal program.
2006年，旧金山自行承担起了重建老社区的任务。市政府发起一个称作HOPE SF的项目，算是对被联邦政府搁置的那个住房项目的致敬。
Mr. Lee said the city’s plans went one step farther by not requiring residents to leave the area during construction.
李表示，市政府的项目采取了更进步的措施，不要求居民在施工期间离开。