If you find the grubby spectacle of today’s Washington cause for shame and despair — and, really, how could you not? — then I suggest you turn off the TV and board Doris Kearns Goodwin’s latest time machine. Let her transport you back to the turn of the 20th century, to a time when this country had politicians of stature and conscience, when the public believed that government could right great wrongs, when, before truncated attention spans, a 50,000-word exposé of corruption could sell out magazines and galvanize a reluctant Congress. The villains seemed bigger, too, or at least more brazen — industrial barons and political bosses who monopolized entire industries, strangled entire cities. And “change” was not just a slogan. “There are but a handful of times in the history of our country,” Goodwin writes in her introduction, “when there occurs a transformation so remarkable that a molt seems to take place, and an altered country begins to emerge.” The years covered in this book are such a time. It makes a pretty grand story.
如果你觉得如今华盛顿的肮脏景象令人羞愧失望——好吧，怎可能没有这样的感觉呢？——那么我建议你关掉电视，搭乘多丽丝·科恩斯·古德温(Doris Kearns Goodwin)最新的时光机，让她带你回到20世纪之初的转折点。在那个时候，这个国家的政客还拥有声望和良心，公众还相信政府可以纠正大错，在短期关注持续之前，一篇揭露腐败的五万字文章足以让杂志大卖，刺激不情不愿的国会采取行动。那时候的恶势力都是垄断行业的工业大亨，在城市内一手遮天的政治领袖，看上去更加庞大，至少也是更加无耻。在那个时代，“改变”不仅仅是一句口号而已。“在我们国家的历史上，仅有少数几个类似的时期，”古德温在序言中写道，“发生了如此重大的变革，似乎即将脱胎换骨，一个全新的国家即将出现。”本书描写的正是这样一个时代，讲述了一个颇为宏大的故事。
Like her last book, “Team of Rivals,” which prompted talk-show comparisons of Abraham Lincoln’s and Barack Obama’s inclusive approaches to cabinet-making, her new book implicitly invites us to look afresh at our own time. In the 1890s, as now, there was a growing preoccupation with economic inequality. Then, as now, the liveliest political drama played out within a bitterly divided Republican Party. But back then the Republican insurgents were progressives, among them Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft, challenging the party’s long defense of laissez-faire and building a federal regulatory apparatus. Now, as William Howard Taft’s great-grandson pointed out in a recent Op-Ed lament, the Republican insurgents champion “bomb-throwing obstructionism” and “empty nihilism” in an effort to dismantle the regulatory machinery the progressives constructed. I foresee a lot of Doris Kearns Goodwin on “Morning Joe” and “Charlie Rose” in the weeks ahead.
古德温的上一本书《林肯与劲敌幕僚》(Team of Rivals)，令脱口秀节目把亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)与贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的各种组阁手段相对比，这本新书同样含蓄地暗示我们重新审视当今的时代。19世纪90年代和现在一样，对经济不平等的关注日渐增长；最活跃的的政治戏剧也和如今一样，发生在痛苦分裂的共和党内。但在那时，共和党内部的叛变者是改革分子，其中包括西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)和威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱(William Howard Taft)，他们对党派长期维护自由放任主义的立场加以质疑，并建立起联邦监管机构。如今，正如威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱的曾孙最近在一篇专栏文章中抱怨的，共和党内部叛变分子的支持者们都是“制造轰动，刻意阻挠议案通过的人”，以及“空虚的虚无主义者”，他们还努力瓦解改革者一手建立起来的监管机制。我预言“乔伊晨间秀”(Morning Joe)和“查理·罗斯秀”(Charlie Rose)肯定会聊起不少多丽丝·科恩斯·古德温新书里的内容。
The title, “The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism,” suggests three books in one, two biographies and a press history, and Goodwin does indeed have an ambitious undertaking. Besides the two principals, her cast includes their adored wives — Edith Roosevelt (literary and reclusive, a brake on her impetuous husband) and Nellie Taft (politically aware and astute, a goad to her chronically circumspect husband); they are treated not just as first ladies but as essential partners in and insightful commentators on the careers of their mates. There is also a colorful cast of industrialists, labor leaders, political rivals, cabinet members and, especially, fired-up journalists. Goodwin directs her characters with precision and affection, and the story comes together like a well-wrought novel.
这本书名叫《最佳讲坛：西奥多·罗斯福、威廉·霍华德·塔夫脱与新闻的黄金时代》(The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism)，表明它其实是把三本书的内容合在了一本书里——两部人物传记和一部新闻史——古德温也的确是雄心勃勃。除了两位主人公，书中的重要人物还包括两人可爱的妻子，伊迪丝·罗斯福（Edith Roosevelt，她生性文艺而孤僻，对于鲁莽的丈夫来说犹如一道刹车），以及奈莉·塔夫脱（Nellie Taft，她颇具政治觉悟和智慧，对于长期审慎小心的丈夫来说是种激励）；她俩在书中不仅只是充当第一夫人角色，更被当做丈夫事业生涯中不可缺少的伙伴与富于洞察力的评论者。此外形形色色的工业家、劳工领袖、政治对手和内阁成员们也粉墨登场，更有许多情绪高昂的记者们。古德温以精准而满含感情的风格描写笔下人物，整个故事如同一部精心构思的小说。
“The Bully Pulpit” is built around two relationships — one between Roosevelt and Taft, lifelong friends and reformist comrades, until the partnership ruptured; the other between power and the press.
《最佳讲坛》主要围绕着两层关系展开，其一是罗斯福与塔夫脱之间的关系，他们是毕生的朋友与改革事业中的同志，直到合作关系最终破裂；其二是权力与媒体之间的关系。
Roosevelt is familiar and irresistible: almost comically energetic, the charging hero of the Rough Riders, the naturalist and hyperactive sportsman who leads visitors on high-speed, off-path hikes through Rock Creek Park, the intellectual omnivore who wrote 40 books including “narratives of hunting expeditions, meditations and natural histories on wolves, the grizzly bear and the black-tailed deer, biographies of public figures, literary essays, commentaries on war and peace, and sketches of birds,” not to mention a respected four-volume history of the American frontier.
罗斯福的形象亲切迷人：他劲头十足，到了近乎可笑的地步。他是执掌“莽骑兵”(Rough Riders)的英雄，自然主义者与活跃的冒险家，曾经带领参观者快速徒步通过岩溪公园。此外他还是聪颖的杂学家，曾经写过40本书，包括“描述狩猎远征、冥想、狼，灰熊与黑尾鹿的自然史，公众人物的传记，文学散文，对战争与和平问题的评论，以及鸟类素描”，更别提他那部四卷本美国边疆开拓史了。
No wonder, then, that Goodwin says her original plan when she set out seven years ago was to write a history of Roosevelt and the Progressive era. In the course of her research, however, she decided history had underestimated Taft’s contribution to the “molt” from which a new, more compassionate America emerged. And so her Teddy book grew into a tandem biography.
毫无疑问，古德温说她七年前创作本书时的最初计划是为罗斯福与进步时代写一部史书。但在研究过程中，她觉得在这个令美国成为一个更有同情心的新国家的“换羽期”中，塔夫脱的历史作用被低估了。所以这本写罗斯福的书就变成了二人合传。
The two men could hardly have been more different. Both were favored children in families that prized public service. But Roosevelt, born sickly and timid, was bathed in unquestioning love, taken on global adventures, driven by his father to triumph over any obstacle, including severe asthma and other childhood infirmities. Taft experienced his parents’ love “as a conditional reward dependent upon his achievements.” He was affable and morally conscientious but not a voracious scholar. Born in robust health, he eventually settled into a lifelong battle with obesity, which Goodwin chronicles in straight-faced updates on his diets, industrial-strength bathroom scales and wardrobe retrofits.
两个男人之间的差别不可能更大了。他们都是公务员家庭里受宠爱的孩子。但罗斯福生来多病羞怯，被家人无条件地宠爱，他到全球各地旅行，父亲鼓励他克服一切困难，包括严重的哮喘病和其他儿时的病症。塔夫脱的父母对他的爱则是“一种有条件的奖赏，取决于他的表现”。他待人亲切，有道德感，但不是一个勤奋的学者。他生来十分健康，最后却终生与肥胖症作战，古德温一本正经地逐年记载了他的食谱，工业强度的浴室体重计与不断更新的行头。
By today’s standards — by any standards — both men were achievers of the first order, with résumés and encomiums that make most of today’s politicians seem slight. Henry Adams would call Taft “the best equipped man for the presidency who had been suggested by either party during his lifetime.” But while Teddy Roosevelt was a full-blooded political animal, Taft, averse to speechmaking and public confrontation, would have been perfectly happy to spend his life presiding over courtrooms. (He ended his life in the job he had always craved, chief justice of the United States.)
以今天的标准而言——其实是以任何年代的标准而言——两人都取得了一流的成就，他们的履历与获得的赞美足以令当今大多数政客黯然失色。亨利·亚当斯(Henry Adams)后来说塔夫脱是“最适合当总统的人，他在世时两党都提名他”。但泰迪·罗斯福才是全心全意的政治动物，塔夫脱讨厌做演讲和当众对抗，更乐于终生主持法庭。最后他终于得到了这个自己一直渴望的职位，去世前的职务是美国最高法院首席大法官。
The two men met in the 1890s when they were already comers in President Benjamin Harrison’s Washington, Roosevelt as a civil service commissioner, Taft as solicitor-general. They bonded over civil service reform, and became so close that their correspondence reads like love letters. (Roosevelt addresses Taft in one missive as “you beloved individual.”) As war secretary Taft would become the most indispensable member of President Roose­velt’s cabinet, a “veritable pack horse” for the administration, the overseer of the Philippines and the Panama Canal commission, the president’s campaign surrogate, an effective lobbyist of Congress and Roosevelt’s confidant in all things.
两人于19世纪90年代相遇，当时他们在本杰明·哈里森(Benjamin Harrison)总统的政府中已经是很有希望的新星。罗斯福是公共服务局局长，塔夫脱是司法部副部长。他们因公共服务改革而联系在一起，关系密切到两人的通信看起来简直像情书一样（罗斯福给塔夫脱的一封信落款是“你所深爱之人”）。塔夫脱担任陆军部长期间，是罗斯福内阁中最不可或缺的一员，他是政府中“真正的苦力”，是菲律宾与巴拿马运河委员会的监督者、总统竞选活动的代理人、国会卓有成效的游说者，以及罗斯福在一切事务上的心腹。   
“Though the two men had strikingly different temperaments — Roosevelt’s original and active nature at odds with Taft’s ruminative and judicial disposition — their opposing qualities actually proved complementary, allowing them to forge a powerful camaraderie and rare collaboration,” Goodwin writes. Together they would “fundamentally enlarge the bounds of economic opportunity and social justice.”
“尽管两人性情大不相同——罗斯福聪颖活跃的天性和塔夫脱沉默公正的性格可谓水火不容——但他们相反的特质却变成了一种互补，让他们形成了一种强烈的同志情谊和罕见的团结，”古德温写道。两人的合作“从根本上扩大了经济机会和社会公正”。
Cue the muckrakers.
关于“扒粪者”们。
In 1893, the publisher Sam McClure assembled a dream team of young writers and started a magazine, bearing his own name, that aimed to rattle the ramparts of power and mobilize the literate middle class. The new technology of photo engraving made the venture economically feasible, the corrupt hegemony of trusts and political machines made for abundant subject matter, and a growing national discontent provided an eager audience. McClure’s published wave upon wave of exquisitely researched exposés. One issue alone, in January 1903, would include Ida Tarbell on the predatory practices of the Standard Oil Company, Lincoln Steffens on the avaricious political cabal that ran Minneapolis and Ray Stannard Baker on turmoil in the labor unions. The public could not get enough of it.
1893年，出版商山姆·麦克卢尔(Sam McClure)组成了一支年轻写手的梦之队，创办了一份以自己的姓氏命名的杂志，力图动摇权力的堡垒，把有文化的中产阶级发动起来。新的照相制版技术使这项冒险在经济上成为可能，信托机构与政治体系中腐败的霸权为他们提供了充足的靶子，而国内不满情绪的日益高涨则为他们提供了热心读者。麦克卢尔推出了一波又一波经过精心调查的曝光文章。其中1903年1月的一期刊登了艾达·塔贝尔(Ida Tarbell)报道美孚石油公司掠夺行为的文章；林肯·斯蒂芬斯(Lincoln Steffens)报道的明尼阿波利斯贪得无厌的政治小集团；雷·斯坦纳德·贝克(Ray Stannard Baker)报道的劳工联盟内部混乱。公众们对这样的报道简直看不够。
“Month after month they would swallow dissertations of ten or twelve thousand words without even blinking — and ask for more,” an astonished Baker would recall.
“月复一月，他们读着一篇又一篇文章，一万字到一万二千字，眼睛都不眨就看完了，然后还想看更多，”惊讶的贝克后来回忆。
The writers of McClure’s became the shock troops of the progressive movement, “putting faces and names to the giant corporations, shining a bright light on the sordid maneuvers that were crushing independent businessmen in one sector after another.” In Roosevelt they found the most effective patron a journalist could hope for.
麦克卢尔旗下的写手们成了进步运动的突袭部队，“他们揭露大公司中的面孔和名字，用强光照亮那些针对一个又一个部门独立企业家的肮脏密谋。”在罗斯福身上，他们发现了新闻记者所能指望的最可靠的支持者。
From the beginning of his political career, as the youngest member of the New York State Assembly, Roosevelt “understood that the most effective means of circumventing the machines and transforming popular sentiment was to establish a good rapport with the press corps.” Many politicians, of course, have courted the press and used the media to rally popular pressure. Roosevelt’s bond with the press was of a different order. Goodwin calls it “authentically collegial.” A more apt word might be symbiotic.
罗斯福的政治生涯是从最年轻的纽约州众议员开始，他“明白要绕开党派，改变公众的情绪，最有效的方法就是和媒体建立起良好的关系”。当然，许多政客都讨好媒体，利用媒体来建立公众压力。罗斯福和媒体之间的关系又是另一套规矩，古德温称之为“真正的平等合作”。不过“共生”可能是更恰当的词。
Before they were his co-conspirators, the journalists were his tutors. Roosevelt in his 20s was slow to grow a social conscience, accepting the prevailing Republican gospel of unfettered commerce and self-reliance. But as he moved up the political ladder — civil service commissioner, New York City police commissioner, governor of the state — journalists like Steffens and the veteran police reporter Jacob Riis introduced the young politician to the underbelly of unregulated capitalism, accompanying their eager pupil on surprise visits to tenement sweatshops and coaching him in the perfidy of the party bosses. As governor, Roosevelt so alienated Boss Platt and the Republican machine that after one term he was compelled to retreat into the largely irrelevant job of William McKinley’s vice president.
记者们一开始是他的导师，后来才成了他的同谋。20多岁的时候，罗斯福慢慢开始有了社会道德心，接受了自由贸易与自力更生观点，这是当时占优势的共和党信条。但当他在政治的阶梯上攀升时——从公共服务局局长到纽约市警察局局长，再到纽约州州长——斯蒂芬斯这样的记者，还有资深警方新闻报道者雅克布·里斯(Jacob Riis)向这位年轻的政治家指出了不受管束的资本主义的弱点，他们陪伴这位热情的学生参观租户区的血汗工厂，令他大开眼界；还在党派领袖背信弃义之时为他出谋划策。担任州长时，罗斯福疏远了普拉特老板（Boss Platt，这里指共和党著名政治领袖Thomas C. Platt，他有“政党老板”的外号——译注）和共和党，结果一个任期之后，他只得去担任一个很大程度上无关紧要的职务：威廉·麦金莱(William McKinley)总统的副总统。
Which soon became not so irrelevant when a young anarchist shot President McKinley, making Roosevelt at 42 the youngest president in the country’s history. By then, he had already cultivated a cohort of reporters and editors who were less a sounding board than an adjunct staff.
然而一个年轻的无政府主义者射杀了麦金莱总统，于是这个职务很快就变得不是那么无关紧要了，42岁的罗斯福成了美国历史上最年轻的总统。当时他已经培养起一群由记者和编辑组成的支持者，他们与其说是他的宣传人员，倒不如说更像他的助手。
In those days before sophisticated polls and focus groups, the press was the White House intelligence network. Roosevelt “read daily excerpts from scores of newspapers . . . and tested his ideas on reporters.”
在精密的民意调查和焦点群体(focus group)出现之前的年代里，媒体就是白宫的情报网。罗斯福“阅读几十份报纸的每日摘要……到记者们那里去验证自己的想法”.
He allowed reporters to question him during his midday shave. Editors and writers who caught his attention would be invited for luncheon conversations that might last until midnight. With his many favorites, Roosevelt exchanged voluminous correspondence, sometimes two or three letters a week. He shared early drafts of his major policy speeches and legislative proposals, and they briefed him on their reporting projects before publication.
他允许记者们在他中午刮胡子的时候向他提问题，还邀请引起他注意的编辑和作者来参加午餐会，谈话可以持续到深夜。罗斯福和许多他非常欣赏的记者都进行了大量通信，有时候每周写两三封。他给他们看重要政治讲话和立法提案的草稿，他们则会在出版发行之前向他简单汇报自己的报道内容。
The exposés — Ray Baker’s six-part, 50,000-word series on the railroads’ corrupt stranglehold on commerce, or Upton Sinclair’s noxious novelized revelations about the meatpacking industry — aroused the political support for Roose­velt’s initiatives. More than that, the president and the journalists sat for hours debating what should go into those initiatives: what powers to give the new Interstate Commerce Commission, what the Pure Food and Drug Act should require, which monopolies to prosecute under the antitrust laws.
其中若干曝光为罗斯福的提案赢得了政治支持，诸如雷·贝克关于铁路系统腐败遏制商业发展的五万字系列报道，以及厄普顿·辛克莱尔(Upton Sinclair)关于肉类加工业的报道（这篇报道有些小说化，因此影响很坏）。此外，总统与记者们还常常花几个小时坐在一起讨论提案内容：应该给新建立的州际贸易委员会哪些权力、纯净食品药品法案(Pure Food and Drug Act)还需要什么内容、应该依据反托拉斯法对哪些垄断企业提起诉讼……
The golden age Goodwin describes was, probably inevitably, short-lived. The success of McClure’s and Collier’s and the other premier investigative publications inspired many imitators who were more strident and less conscientious about their reporting. A “national fatigue with the ubiquitous literature of exposure” set in.
古德温描写的这个黄金时代十分短暂，这或许是不可避免的。麦克卢尔与科利尔(Collier)等最优秀的调查新闻出版者取得了巨大的成功，使得许多人竞相模仿，这些模仿者们的报道更加咄咄逼人，但却没有那么认真负责。于是“整个国家对无所不在的揭露文学感到厌倦”。
And the crusading journalists gradually became disillusioned by their hero. For Tarbell, it was Roosevelt’s acquisition of the Panama Canal Zone, which displayed a despotic quality. Steffens lost patience with the compromises necessary to enact legislation and drifted to socialism. Ray Baker, disappointed by the president’s caution, fumed that “Roosevelt never leads; he always follows.”
而这些圣战者般的记者们也开始对他们的英雄感到幻灭。塔贝尔认为罗斯福取得巴拿马运河区的方式显示出他暴君的一面。罗斯福为通过法案而做出的妥协，以及逐渐倾向社会主义令斯蒂芬斯失去了耐心。雷·贝克则对总统的谨小慎微感到失望，他怒气冲冲地说：“罗斯福从来不领导；他总是跟着别人走。”
The disenchantment was mutual. “His exasperation with the proliferation of increasingly sensational and shoddily investigated exposure journalism had been slowly building,” Goodwin writes. In 1906 Roosevelt vented his anger in a speech at the annual Gridiron Dinner, castigating the new journalists for ignoring success and inflaming public passions. (It was this speech that popularized the term “muckrakers,” which the journalists later adopted as a badge of honor.) The next morning Steffens called on the president. “Well,” he said, “you have put an end to all these journalistic investigations that have made you.”
罗斯福那边也有所醒悟。“调查揭露新闻报道日渐增长，而且愈发耸人听闻、粗制滥造，他对此也渐渐开始感到恼火，”古德温写道。1906年，罗斯福在年度格里丹俱乐部晚宴的讲话上发泄了自己的怒气，批评新闻记者们无视成就，只顾刺激公众的热情——就是该讲话让“扒粪者”一词举世知闻，后来记者们把这个词当成荣誉的勋章（罗斯福在讲话中引用英国作家约翰·班扬在《天路历程》中的“扒粪者”，此人手拿粪耙，一心收拾地上的秽物，连天国的王冠也不希罕——译注）。翌日，斯蒂芬斯给总统打电话。“好吧，”他说，“是这些新闻调查成就了你，现在你和它们一刀两断了。”
The relationship didn’t end quite yet, but it never fully recovered. And when Roosevelt’s presidency gave way to Taft’s, the partnership was essentially over. Taft was as conscientious a reformer as Roose­velt, but no match for him as a leader, and he knew it. “When I hear someone say Mr. President,” Taft confessed, “I look around expecting to see Roosevelt.” The clamor of public dissension and the passion of political proselytizing — the bully pulpit — held no appeal for Taft. “As a former judge, he assumed that his decisions would speak for themselves,” Goodwin writes. On his signature cause, lowering the protectionist tariffs that had widened the gulf between rich and poor, he had a natural ally in Tarbell, who had spent two years researching and writing on the subject; he never summoned her to his side. Baker and William Allen White and other journalists also signaled a willingness to work with him on his progressive agenda, but he preferred to work within the system. And as a result his single-term presidency is generally counted a failure.
这段关系并没有真正结束，但也永远未能修复如初。塔夫脱接任罗斯福担任总统后，他俩的合作关系也在本质上告终了。作为改革者，塔夫脱和罗斯福一样认真谨慎，但他的领导才能无法与罗斯福相比，他自己也知道这一点。“每当我听到有人叫‘总统先生’，”塔夫脱承认，“我都会左顾右盼，寻觅罗斯福的身影。”公众不满的抗议与改变政治信仰的热情，所谓的“最佳讲坛”(bully pulpit，这个词由罗斯福所创造，指白宫，因其是宣扬政治观点的最佳讲坛——译注)对塔夫脱一点吸引力都没有。“作为一个前任法官，他觉得他所做出的决定最终会自行证明自己的正确性，”古德温写道。他签署的法案降低了令贫富差距扩大的贸易保护关税，因此同花费两年时间调查这一问题并撰写报道的塔贝尔可谓是天然的同盟。但他从来未曾召见过她。贝克与威廉·艾伦·怀特(William Allen White)等记者们都表示过愿意同他一起研究进步运动的改革议程，但他更愿意在体系之内工作。其结果就是他仅有的一个任期被普遍认为是个失败。
The wave of reforms set in motion by Roosevelt, Taft and the muckrakers would continue into Woodrow Wilson’s presidency and bequeath to us, among other things, the progressive income tax, direct election of senators and the women’s vote. But the golden age of reformist politicians harnessed to crusading journalists in common purpose was over. With a few exceptions — Ben Bradlee’s bromance with President Kennedy comes to mind — the relationship between presidents and the reporters who cover them has evolved toward the adversarial. For better or worse (and I would say some of both) reporters have come to see themselves as watchdogs who stand guard with an abiding mistrust that sometimes lapses into cynicism. The feeling is reciprocated.
由罗斯福、塔夫脱和“扒粪者”们发动的改革大潮最终在伍德·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)的任期内完成，并传递给我们，其中最重要的内容包括累进所得税制、参议员直选制度和妇女投票权。但改革主义政治家与圣战记者们为了共同目的并肩奋斗的的黄金时代结束了。总统与负责报道总统的新闻记者们之间的关系发展为对抗性质，只有本·布拉德利(Ben Bradlee)与肯尼迪总统建立起了兄弟情谊，算是少数几个例外。不管好坏（我认为是好坏皆有），记者们开始认为自己是在扮演“看门狗”角色，怀着不信任的情绪，保持警惕，有时也会堕落为犬儒主义。总统对记者们的态度也是如此。
Much of the pleasure of this book — besides recalling for us that once, leaders stood tall, our government didn’t seem to be in a state of constant stalemate and journalism got results — is the re-creation of a day when life moved at a statelier pace. At one point, Taft leads a traveling congressional delegation of 80 people on a three-month mission to the Philippines and the Far East. “In the evenings, guests enjoyed formal dances, sleight-of-hand performances, mock trials and pillow fights.” Today such a trip would be called a “codel” and condensed to a jet-lagged weekend of drive-by fact-finding.
这本书的主要乐趣不仅在于令我们想起，在过去，我们的政治领袖曾经一度高瞻远瞩，政府不是那么经常陷入僵局，新闻事业曾经大获成功，更重要的是，它为我们再现了一个时代，生活以庄严堂皇的步调前进。有一次，塔夫脱曾经领导一个80人的国会代表团到菲律宾和远东出访三个月。“晚上，客人们跳交谊舞、观赏马戏表演、嘲笑审判，打枕头仗。”如今，这样的出访之旅被称为“国会代表团”，被浓缩为倒时差的周末和走马观花的调查。
At the turn of the 20th century, the educated classes were such prolific letter-writers and journal-keepers that a contemporary reader wonders when they found time for anything else. Roosevelt and Taft and their wives and siblings and parents and children all wrote each other copious, loving and often eloquent reports. Goodwin seems to have read them all, along with every newspaper and magazine published during those years — the footnotes fill 115 pages of agate type — and used them to put political intrigues and moral dilemmas and daily lives into rich and elegant language. Imagine “The West Wing” scripted by Henry James.
在20世纪之初，受过教育的阶层大量写信，写日记，现代读者简直会觉得他们他们怎么还有空做别的事情。罗斯福、塔夫脱和他们的妻子、兄弟姊妹、父母与孩子们都大量互相通信，内容富于爱意，通常都是滔滔不绝的报告。古德温似乎把这些信全都读过了，还有那些年代出版的所有报纸杂志——这本书光脚注就用5.5磅字号排了115页——她利用这些材料，以丰富而优美的语言描写出政治密谋、道德困境和日常生活。试想由亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)编剧的《白宫风云》(The West Wing)吧。
Although Goodwin infuses most of her men and women with personality, no one matches the sheer vitality of Roosevelt. In truth, the book flags a bit when he has grudgingly relinquished the presidency and gone to chase big game in Africa. The White House without Roosevelt is like the Henry IV plays when Falstaff leaves the stage. Beginning around Page 550 I occasionally found myself remembering Nellie Taft’s admonishment to her verbose husband: “Many a good thing is spoiled by there being too much of it.”
古德温笔下的大多数男女都别具个性，但都比不上活力旺盛的罗斯福。事实上，当罗斯福不情不愿地从总统位子上退下来，去非洲打猎之后，这本书就变得有点疲沓了。没有了罗斯福的白宫有点像没有了福斯塔夫(Falstaff)的《亨利四世》(Henry IV)。到第550页左右，我发现自己不时想起奈莉·塔夫脱是怎样告诫她啰嗦的丈夫：“很多事都毁在过犹不及上。”
The story picks up again when Roose­velt — hungry for the spotlight and convinced his old friend has gone soft — reappears for a bitter third-party presidential run against the incumbent Taft and the Democrat Woodrow Wilson. Goodwin quotes Wilson confiding to a friend his sense of inadequacy beside the ex-­president: “He appeals to their imagination; I do not. He is a real, vivid person, whom they have seen and shouted themselves hoarse over and voted for, millions strong; I am a vague, conjectural personality, more made up of opinions and academic prepossessions than of human traits and red corpuscles.”
罗斯福渴望关注，最终说服自己的老朋友态度软化下来，当他归来后，故事又重新精彩起来，这一次他成了愤愤不平的第三方党派总统候选人，同塔夫脱以及民主党候选人伍德·威尔逊竞选总统。威尔逊私下对朋友说自己在前总统身边感到十分不自在，古德温引用道：“他能满足他们的想象；我不行。他是个真实鲜活的人物，成千上百万的人见过他，为他欢呼，喊哑了嗓子，为他投过票；我只是个模糊的，存在于猜测中的人物，更像是由一堆观点和学术观念组成，没有人性的特征，不像血肉之躯。”
As if to dramatize the point, the month before the election Roosevelt is preparing to address a campaign crowd in Milwaukee when he is shot point blank in the chest by a would-be assassin. The candidate clasps a handkerchief to the wound and goes on with his speech — for an hour and a half.
好像是为了令一切更加戏剧化，选举前一个月，罗斯福在密尔沃基准备对选民做演讲时，被暗杀未遂者近距离射中胸部。这位候选人用手绢捂住伤口，继续讲演，一讲就是一个半钟头。
He doesn’t win the election, but he steals the story.
他没能赢得选举，但他抢尽故事的风头。