David and Dorothy Measer’s house in Los Angeles is neither a cottage nor a bachelor pad, but when the couple met nine years ago, it was both.
戴维和多萝西·米瑟(David and Dorothy Measer)夫妇在洛杉矶的住所，既不是一栋农舍式的小别墅，也不是单身公寓。但当这对夫妇九年前初次见面的时候，这栋房子还满足上述一切条件。
In 2003, Mr. Measer, an advertising executive, paid $760,000 for a small house on a corner lot in the city’s Venice neighborhood. He was 33 and single and wanted a cool place, but found himself living in “the most feminine house you’ve ever seen,” he said. “The wall colors were pink, purple, lavender. The landscaping was roses and hydrangeas.”
2003年，身为一家广告公司总裁的戴维花了76万美元（约合人民币463万元）在洛杉矶的威尼斯(Venice)社区一处转角地段买下一套小房子。当年的他33岁，还是单身，想要一个很酷的居所，但却发现自己的住处“是你所见过的最女性化的房子，”他说，“墙面刷成了粉色、紫色和薰衣草色。户外种的植物也都是玫瑰和绣球花。”
Even when Mr. Measer repainted the rooms gray, his new house appeared unwilling to butch up: sunlight would stream in at certain hours and reveal the pink undercoat.
就算戴维将房间重新漆成了灰色，他的新家似乎也不愿意变得男性化：阳光会在特定的时间段洒进来，使底部的粉色油漆暴露无遗。
Frustrated, he invited a woman he had heard about who was touted as a “light expert” to come over, hoping she could get the masculine colors to stick. “I wasn’t expecting anything,” he said. “I opened the door, and there was Dorothy. My whole molecular structure had this reaction.”
这令他烦恼不已。所以当他听说有一位被人奉为“采光专家”的女士，便把对方请了过来，希望她能把这座房子的男性化色调巩固下来。“我事先没有任何期待，”他说，“我打开门，看见了多萝西，内心一下子就被击中了。”
Ms. Measer, who was then a 34-year-old designer with her own firm, DK Design House, felt the connection as well. The feeling was confirmed when they bumped into each other on the street later that day, and again when they had their first date that night.
那时候多萝西34岁，是一名设计师，自己开了家名叫DK Design House的公司。她对戴维也是一见如故。后来，两人当天又在同一条街上偶遇了。在当晚的初次约会中，两人确定了对彼此的感觉。
They married seven months later, and had a son, Luca, in 2006, and a daughter, Phoebe, in 2009. But the place that had never worked as a bachelor pad was also too small for a growing family. They embarked on a halfhearted home search but didn’t really want to leave their current location.
7个月后，他们结婚了。2006年儿子出生，取名卢卡(Luca)；2009年又生了个女儿，叫做菲比(Phoebe)。不过，他们所住的那处名不副实的单身公寓，对一个正在壮大的家庭来说有些太小了。他们开始有一搭没一搭地找房子，但其实心里并不想离开自己的老住处。
Instead, they turned to the architect in the family to create a new house on the site. There is nothing cottagelike about the 3,336-square-foot home that Ms. Measer designed, which cost a little under $300 a square foot. With its standing-seam siding and huge windows, it looks like two elegant shipping containers stacked one on top of the other. Surrounded by a low concrete wall and set close to the property line (and at an angle to take advantage of natural light and passive solar control), the house is conspicuously open to the street.
结果，他们就请家里这位现成的建筑师在原址建了一座新房子。多萝西设计的新家再也不像农舍式别墅了。新房的面积有3336平方英尺（约合310平方米），造价略低于每平方英尺300美元（约合每平方米人民币20311元）。新居里的竖缝护墙板和巨大的窗户，使这栋房子看起来就像两只雅致的海运集装箱堆叠在一起。屋外有低矮的混凝土围墙环绕，位置毗邻地界线，直面大街，十分引人注目（房屋的朝向呈现出一定角度，有助于自然采光和利用被动隔热技术）。
As Mr. Measer said: “Venice is an area where people put up big barriers because the lots are really small. We were really keen on a place that felt like it was part of the community.”
戴维这样解说道：“在威尼斯区，人们都喜欢竖起高大的围栏，因为各家占有的地盘都太小了。而我们希望融入社区的大环境，成为其中的一份子。”
The couple also wanted to avoid interior barriers, forgoing boxy rooms with designated functions in favor of a single large room on the ground floor that encompasses the free-flowing kitchen, dining and living areas. In the center of the space is the home’s organizing element: a cylindrical object with a circumference of nearly 45 feet that spans both floors. Though it looks like a load-bearing column, it hides the stairs and the guts of the house (including pipes, a powder room, closet and pantry on the first floor and another closet and audiovisual equipment upstairs).
夫妇俩还想让室内的空间也变得毫无阻隔，他们没有把室内空间分成功能各异的房间，而是将整个一楼设成了一个大房间，其中包括开放式的厨房、餐厅和生活区。空间的中心部分，是这栋住宅的“组织元素”(organizing element)：这是一个圆柱体的空间，周长近45英尺（约合14米），纵贯上下两层楼。虽然它看起来像一个承重柱，但是里面却藏着楼梯，以及这座房子的“内脏”（包括一楼布设的管道、化妆间、壁橱和餐具室，以及二楼摆放的视听设备）。
The monumental column — and the metal staircase slicing through it, painted hazard orange — draws on Ms. Measer’s childhood in western Michigan, where huge tanks were visible inside the anodized aluminum plant her family owned. “I purposely designed it so you could feel the power of the object in the space,” she said. “I grew up seeing beauty and being comfortable in that industrial setting.”
这座纪念柱——以及被漆成危险标识上常见的橙色、将柱心“剖开”的金属楼梯，都能唤起多萝西对自己在西密歇根(western Michigan)度过的童年的回忆。在他们家开办的一家阳极氧化铝厂里，总能看到巨型的储存罐。“我特意如此设计，这样你就能感觉到它在空间中的张力，”她说，“我从小在工业环境下长大，能够感受它的美，也能在那样的环境中怡然自得。”
The interiors, particularly upstairs, are softer and reflect the couple’s initial inspiration for building the home, Mr. Measer said. “Our goal was to create a fusion of modern and industrial design within a format that the kids would love and be able to play in,” he said, adding that his 3-year-old daughter and 6-year-old son like to scooter around the big column.
戴维说，室内装饰——尤其是二楼的设计，在风格上更加柔和，反映了夫妇俩建造这个新家的初始意图。“我们的目的是将现代设计和工业风格融合起来，同时还要让孩子们喜欢，并能够在其中玩耍，”说到这儿，他又提到自己3岁的女儿和6岁的儿子都喜欢绕着大柱子踩滑板车。
A few elements of the cottage remain, like the drawers and hardware repurposed from the old closets and a kitchen range. But with a wife and two young children, Mr. Measer’s life is far from what he imagined when he bought the corner property. Asked how long he lived as a bachelor in what he thought must be the world’s most feminine cottage, Mr. Measer laughed.
一些农舍式别墅的元素被保留了下来，比如由旧壁橱和炉灶改装的抽屉和五金器具。不过，戴维现在妻儿俱全的生活，和他当初买下小农舍时的设想已经孑然不同了。当被问及在被他视为世上最女性化的小别墅里当了多久的单身汉时，戴维笑了。
“Weeks,” he said. “Maybe a couple of months.” He did not sound as if he missed those days.
“几周吧，”他说，“或许有几个月。”听起来，他似乎并不怀念那段日子。