Trying to renovate a Victorian market and tack on some offices hip enough for Google in the oldest part of this ancient city is not a task for the weak of heart. Just ask Geoff Harris.
要改造一座维多利亚时代的市场，并在伦敦这座古老城市中历史最悠久的地区，为谷歌(Google)打造一批十足嬉皮的办公室，这可不是心理脆弱的人能够胜任的事情。这一点，问问杰夫·哈里斯(Geoff Harris)就知道了。
As head of property development for Henderson Global Investors, he is the face of a 160 million pound, or $266 million, proposal to restore a handful of buildings in the historic Smithfield Market in the heart of the City London, the historical financial center, and designed by Sir Horace Jones, the architect responsible for the Tower Bridge here.
哈里斯在亨德森全球投资公司(Henderson Global Investors)担任房产开发部门的负责人，是一个耗资1.6亿英镑（或2.66亿美元，约合人民币16.5亿元）的开发计划的头面人物。该计划拟在历史悠久的史密斯菲尔德市场(Smithfield Market)内改造好几座建筑。史密斯菲尔德市场位于伦敦金融城——即伦敦历史上的金融中心的核心处，由伦敦塔桥(Tower Bridge)的建筑师霍勒斯·琼斯爵士(Sir Horace Jones)设计。
According to Mr. Harris, Henderson’s project is noble and expensive, restoring historical grandeur to the Victorian market buildings while integrating new space for shops, restaurants and desperately needed modern offices.
哈里斯称，亨德森全球投资的计划雄心勃勃、耗资高昂，不仅志在恢复维多利亚时代市场建筑的历史荣光，还将为店铺、餐馆和市场中急需的现代化办公室开拓新的空间。
His opponents beg to differ. “This would be the worst mutilation of a major Victorian building in 30 years,” said Marcus Binney, founder of Save Britain’s Heritage, a conservation group that has two full-time employees and significant political sway.
他的反对者对此则不敢苟同。“这将是30年来人们对一座重要的维多利亚式建筑所做的最严重破坏，”民间保护组织“拯救英国遗产”(Save Britain's Heritage)的创始人马库斯·宾尼(Marcus Binney)说。“拯救英国遗产”拥有两名全职员工及重大的政治影响力。
The debate over the future of Smithfield, which is now part of a prominent public hearing, pits big, global money — Henderson is a £70.8 billion global investment fund with 1,000 employees — against local conservationists who enjoy the support of some prominent actors, playwrights and politicians. But the vitriol arising from the Smithfield project underscores broader issues, including the soaring cost of London real estate and the inequality that has fueled and the question of how to upgrade the creaking infrastructure of culture-rich cities like London.
人们就史密斯菲尔德市场的未来展开了争论。这场争论如今已被纳入一场家喻户晓的听证会。对立的其中一方，是国际大型资本——亨德森是市值708亿英镑（约合人民币7290亿元）的全球投资基金，雇员人数多达1000名；另一方则是当地的保护主义者，他们还得到了一些知名演员、编剧和政界人士的支持。不过，人们对史密斯菲尔德项目的敌意，也证明了一些更深层次的问题，比如伦敦房地产开发成本的飙涨，以及由此带来的不平等问题；还有，在伦敦这样文化丰富的城市，该如何升级年久失修的基础设施等等。
“If the only people who can get a lease in this new scheme are ‘institutionally acceptable,’ i.e. no mom-and-pop shops, that will reduce the diversity and interest and opportunity that the city can provide,” said Eric Reynolds, founder of Urban Space Management, who is working with the conservation groups that oppose the project. They have put forth plans to refurbish the Victorian market along the lines of two other popular London markets, Covent Garden and Borough Market Hall.
“如果，能在新项目中拿到租约的只有‘机构投资者能接受的商家’，而像夫妻店这样的承租者就不被接受，那么这座城市所能提供的多样性、趣味性和机会就会被削减，”城市空间管理公司(Urban Space Management)的创始人埃里克·雷诺兹(Eric Reynolds)说。他正携手保护组织反对这个项目。他们提出了对这个维多利亚式市场的整修方案，该方案与伦敦另外两个颇有人气的市场——科文特花园(Covent Garden)和Borough Market Hall的整修计划类似。
Smithfield’s market buildings are in the City of London, where ancient ruins and cobblestone streets abut modern high-rise steel showcases. Not far from Smithfield, a Starbucks is tucked neatly into a centuries-old church, and the Royal Exchange, a popular cafe and arcade, is frequently mistaken for the Bank of England, which is across the street in a less-handsome building.
史密斯菲尔德市场的建筑，就位于伦敦金融城。在这里，古老的历史遗迹与石子路映衬着现代的钢筋水泥摩天大厦。距史密斯菲尔德不远处，有一家星巴克被整整齐齐地“塞进”了一座百年老教堂里，而Royal Exchange这家咖啡馆兼长廊商场，经常被人误以为是英格兰银行(Bank of England)，后者位于街对面的一座不那么起眼的建筑中。
Considered one of Europe’s great 19th-century covered market halls, Smithfield sits on top of what will be one of London’s busiest transportation hubs, connecting two busy train lines after construction is completed in 2018. It will be 40 minutes from five airports, and neighbors in the area include Goldman Sachs, Amazon.com and Google. Young technology workers from nearby Shoreditch are gravitating to the area, priced out by their richer counterparts.
史密斯菲尔德被视为19世纪欧洲最主要的室内市场之一。而其所在地的地下部分，将被建成伦敦最繁忙的交通枢纽之一，到2018年完工之际，将连通两条繁忙的铁路线。届时，从这里出发，40分钟内即可到达五座机场。坐落在该区域周边的企业包括高盛(Goldman Sachs)、亚马逊(Amazon.com)和谷歌。来自附近肖迪奇(Shoreditch)区的年轻科技人才，纷纷被吸引了过来，因为他们实在负担不起别处的房价。
Commercial real estate development is on the rise in London, with cranes visible across the skyline. The City of London Corporation, a civic body that oversees the financial district, says the vacancy rate is 8.5 percent, lower than the 10-year average of 9.6 percent. “On Tuesday, the City approved another Henderson project to develop 910,000 square feet of neo-Gothic style office buildings for £500 million. This is not the first time at the development dance for Smithfield. In 2007, the developer Thornfields secured a long-term lease from the city corporation and planned to raze the buildings and construct an office block. Amid protests from English Heritage, the British government’s adviser on historic properties, and conservation groups, the government called a public hearing and a public inspector overturned the development plan. Thornfields was close to bankruptcy during the financial crisis and Henderson bought the lease in 2010 for an undisclosed amount. According to Mr. Harris, Henderson then spent three years and £10 million to painstakingly develop a “conservation-led” project. It has fixed leaky roofs, strengthened tunnel rails beneath the buildings to the tune of £4 million, reinforced riveted girders and spent $130,000 stabilizing stonework.
商业地产开发正在伦敦兴起，天际线上随处可见吊车的身影。伦敦金融城公司(The City of London Corporation)是监管这片金融区的市政机构。该机构表示，目前空置率为8.5%，低于十年的平均水平9.6%。“星期二，金融城又批准了亨德森的一个项目，开发91万平方英尺（约合8万平方米）的新哥特式写字楼，耗资5亿英镑（约合人民币51亿元）。这不是史密斯菲尔德的第一个大型开发项目。2007年，开发商Thornfields从金融城公司争取到了一份长期租约，计划将旧建筑夷为平地，再新建一座写字楼。在英格兰遗产协会(English Heritage)、英国政府历史建筑顾问和保护组织的抗议下，政府召开了听证会，一名公共事务督察员否决了这项开发计划。Thornsfields在金融危机期间几近破产，亨德森在2010年以未披露的价格取得了租赁权。据哈里斯说，亨德森接下来投入了三年时间和1000万英镑（约合人民币10亿元），制定了一个“以保护为导向的”项目。它已修理了漏水的屋顶，加固了房子地下的隧道铁路——大约耗资400万英镑（约合人民币4118万元），加固了铆合梁，还斥资13万美元（约合人民币81万元）翻新了石雕工艺。
The old fish market, which has not been used for 30 years, and the general market, which the rail company uses for several purposes, will be converted into a combination of shops and restaurants, with offices up to five stories high. The project will have 63,000 square feet of retail space and 172,000 square feet of office space. “We have shown integrity here,” Mr. Harris said, adding that 75 percent of the buildings in question would be retained.
原来的鱼市已经废弃了30年，而综合市场则被铁路公司占用，服务于多种用途。这两座市场将被改建为一系列的商场和餐馆，外加五层高的写字楼。该项目将开发6.3万平方英尺（约合5853平方米）的零售空间，和17.2万平方英尺（约合1598平方米）的办公空间。“我们已经展现出了尊重历史的姿态，”哈里斯说，他还表示，75%的争议建筑将被维持原状。
To renovate the general market, Henderson will demolish the airy roofs supported on elegant trusses and the central dome. Mr. Harris said much of the historical beauty of the structure was destroyed during World War II. The building was replaced in the 1950s and has never attracted tourists. “I am baffled,” he said wearily. “It was not seen by the public, and it’s not been used for 30 years.”
为了修缮综合市场，亨德森将拆毁古朴的桁架和中央穹顶上搭建的通风屋顶。哈里斯说，在二战期间，该建筑的历史美遭到了严重破坏。20世纪50年代，建筑得以翻新，但是不再对游客具有吸引力。“我很困惑，”他疲惫地说，“这个地方无人问津，而且已经废弃了30年。”
Mr. Reynolds has a different view. He helped develop Spitalfields, another bustling market, which Ballymore, a Dublin property company, sold to Ashkenazy Acquisition for more than £100 million last year. He says the same can be done with Smithfield if Henderson would accept a similar return on capital but a lower total profit.
雷诺兹则有不同的看法。他协助开发了斯皮塔佛德(Spitalfields)，这也是一座繁华的市场。去年，都柏林的地产公司Ballymore以超过1亿英镑（约合人民币10亿元）的价格，将它卖给了Ashkenazy Acquisition集团。雷诺兹说，这种模式也可以复制到史密斯菲尔德的开发上，只要亨德森愿意接受类似的资本回报率，只不过，总利润会少一些。
“Once these halls are gone, they are gone forever,” he said. Mr. Reynolds called Henderson’s contention that three-quarters of the building will be maintained misleading, though he used a more colorful term, because Henderson counts the basement. The evidence submitted suggests Henderson’s proposal to gut the general market’s roof removes much of the volume of the building.
“这些市场建筑一旦被拆毁，就一去不复返了。”他说。雷诺兹认为，虽然亨德森方面表示会保留建筑四分之三的部分，但是这种说法具有误导性，有含糊其辞的嫌疑。因为，亨德森把地下室也计算了进来。已提交的证据表明，亨德森拆毁综合市场屋顶的计划，相当于将整个建筑的大半部分都掏空了。
“You take the middle out of a cathedral, and you don’t have anywhere to sit and pray,” Mr. Reynolds said.
“你把一座教堂的中心部分给拆了，根本就没有地方给人坐下来祈祷了。”雷诺兹说。
Henderson’s project is being financed by the $70 billion Alberta Investment Management Company, which is investing £1 billion in London real estate. The city corporation approved the plan last summer, with English Heritage, the Design Council CABE, the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment, and Mayor Boris Johnson of London.
阿尔伯塔投资管理公司(Alberta Investment Management Company)为亨德森的项目提供了10亿英镑（约合人民币100亿元）的资金。该公司在伦敦的房地产投资额达到了700亿美元（约合人民币4347亿元）。金融城公司去年夏天通过了亨德森的计划，同时参与审批的还有英格兰遗产协会、设计委员会(Design Council)、建筑与建设环境委员会（CABE，全称Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment）、以及伦敦市的市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)。
But protests ensued, and Eric Pickles, the communities and local government secretary, called a public hearing, which began last week and ends Friday. The inquiry closes March 7 and the inspector is expected to take up to two months to write his report with a recommendation to the government. Mr. Pickles will then decide whether to accept the recommendation, a process that could take weeks.
不过，抗议仍在继续。英国政府社区事务大臣艾瑞克·皮克尔斯(Eric Pickles)召开了听证会，从上周持续到周五。调查于3月7日结束，督察员预计将在两个月内写好报告，向政府提交建议。届时，皮克尔斯将决定是否接受建议，这个过程可能需要好几周时间。
One person’s renovation is another’s demolition, and the two sides disagree on nearly everything beyond liking the structures, including the size of the area to be developed, the price of development, the percentage of area to be protected, or even whether “Skyfall,” the 2012 James Bond movie, was filmed in the basement. It was not.
一个人眼中的修缮，在另一个人眼里就是毁坏。双方几乎在所有方面都会存在分歧。而且，争论的焦点已经不仅局限于建筑本身，还包括开发地区的规模、开发成本、受保护的地区比例。就连2012年的詹姆士·邦德影片《007：大破天幕杀机》(Skyfall)是否是在地下室中拍摄的，他们也要争执一番。结论是否定的。
Henderson says the alternative proposal by Save Britain’s Heritage and the Victorian Society is not viable and falls short by £23 million, according to Knight Frank, a property management company Henderson hired.
亨德森称，“拯救英国遗产”和“维多利亚协会”(Victorian Society)提出的替代方案没有可行性，会造成2300万英镑（约合人民币2亿元）的资金缺口。上述说法来自亨德森雇佣的房产管理公司Knight Frank。