SAN FRANCISCO — Last weekend, I was watching television with a few friends, browsing the week’s most popular YouTube videos, when a piece in the comedy section called “I Forgot My Phone” caught my eye. As I was about to click play, however, a friend warned, “Oh, don’t watch that. I saw it yesterday, and it’s really sad.”
旧金山——上周末，我和几个朋友看电视，浏览那周最热门的YouTube视频时，喜剧栏目里有一个名为《我没带手机》(I Forgot My Phone)的作品引起了我的注意。正要点击播放时，一个朋友警告道，“哦，别看那个。我昨天刚看过，挺难过的。”
The two-minute video, which has been viewed more than 15 million times, begins with a couple in bed. The woman, played by the comedian and actress Charlene deGuzman, stares silently while her boyfriend pays no mind and checks his smartphone.
这个时长2分钟的视频观看量已超过1500万次。视频开始一对男女躺在床上。喜剧演员查勒妮·德古兹曼(Charlene deGuzman)扮演的女子默默凝望，而她的男朋友拨弄着智能手机，毫不在意。
The subsequent scenes follow Ms. deGuzman through a day that is downright dystopian: people ignore her as they stare at their phones during lunch, at a concert, while bowling and at a birthday party. (Even the birthday boy is recording the party on his phone.) The clip ends with Ms. deGuzman back in bed with her boyfriend at the end of the day; he is still using his phone.
随后展现的就是德古兹曼彻底反乌托邦的一天：共进午餐的人盯着手机，完全无视她的存在。听音乐会、玩保龄球，还有在一个生日派对上，都是同样经历。（甚至过生日的男孩都在用手机录制派对场景。）视频末尾，一天结束后，德古兹曼和男朋友回到床上；他还在玩手机。
Ms. deGuzman’s video makes for some discomfiting viewing. It’s a direct hit on our smartphone-obsessed culture, needling us about our addiction to that little screen and suggesting that maybe life is just better led when it is lived rather than viewed. While the clip has funny scenes — a man proposing on a beach while trying to record the special moment on his phone — it is mostly … sad.
观看德古兹曼的视频多少让人感到不安。它直击我们的智能手机迷恋文化，让我们如坐针毡地意识到自己对于那小小屏幕沉醉，同时也提出，用身心去生活而不只是观看，也许能让生活更美好。视频中不乏搞笑场景——一位男士在海滩上求婚时还不忘用手机拍摄这特殊时刻——但主要还是感觉……难过。
“I came up with the idea for the video when I started to realize how ridiculous we are all being, myself included, when I was at a concert and people around me were recording the show with their phones, not actually watching the concert,” Ms. deGuzman said in an interview.
“想到要拍这段视频，是因为我开始意识到我们太荒唐可笑了，包括我自己在内，去听音乐会时，周围的人都在用手机拍演出，而不是真的去看它，”德古兹曼在一个采访中说道。
“It makes me sad that there are moments in our lives where we’re not present because we’re looking at a phone,” said Ms. deGuzman, who also wrote the piece, which was directed by Miles Crawford. She mused that, like it or not, experiencing life through a four-inch screen could be the new norm.
“我们只顾盯着手机，而没有亲临自己生命中的那些时刻，这让我感到难过，”德古兹曼说道。她创作了视频剧本，由迈尔斯·克劳福德(Miles Crawford)导演。她思考的是，不管你喜不喜欢，透过四英寸大小的屏幕来体验生活可能会成为新的常态。
Or not. Ms. deGuzman’s video may have landed at one of those cultural moments when people start questioning if something has gone too far and start doing something about it.
也可能不会。德古兹曼视频的出现也许正赶上了一个文化时刻，人们开始质疑有些事是不是做过头了，并准备采取行动。
Last week, the Unsound music festival in Poland banned fans from recording the event, saying it did not want “instant documentation” and distractions that might take away from the performances. In April, during a show in New York City, Karen O, the lead singer of the rock band the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, told audience members to put away their phones (using an expletive to emphasize her point).
上周，波兰的无声音乐节(Unsound)表示不需要“即刻录制”，禁止歌迷进行拍摄和分散观看表演注意力的举动。摇滚乐队“是，是，是的”(Yeah Yeah Yeahs)主唱卡伦·欧(Karen O)4月在纽约的一场表演中，告诉观众把手机收起来（并用了脏字以示强调）。
A number of New York restaurants, including Momofuku Ko and Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare, have prohibited people from photographing their food. (Note to foodies: Your quinoa does not need to be artfully posted with an old-timey look on Instagram.) And, of course, many mothers and fathers who fought to keep the television out of the kitchen may see smartphones as the next threat to dinnertime civility.In the late 1950s, televisions started to move into the kitchen from the living room, often wheeled up to the dinner table to join the family for supper. And then, TV at the dinner table suddenly became bad manners. Back to the living room the TV went.
纽约的几家饭馆，如桃福子(Momofuku Ko)和布鲁克林美食店主厨餐桌(Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare)禁止客人对餐点进行拍照。（美食爱好者们注意：给您的藜麦添加Instagram怀旧效果而后美轮美奂地上传是没有必要的。）当然，很多拼命坚持把电视挡在厨房之外的父母们可能会把智能手机视为文明晚餐的下一个威胁。20世纪50年代后期，电视开始从起居室转移入厨房，经常被推到餐桌边和家人们共进晚餐。后来，吃饭时看电视又成了不礼貌的行为。电视又被送回起居室。
“It never really caught on in most U.S. homes,” said Lynn Spigel, a professor at the Northwestern University School of Communication and author of the book, “Make Room for TV.” “At one point, a company even tried to invent a contraption called the TV Stove, which was both a TV and a stove,” she said.
“这并没有在多数美国家庭中流行起来，”西北大学传播学院(the Northwestern University School of Communication)教授及《给电视让位》(Make Room for TV)一书作者琳·斯皮吉尔(Lynn Spigel)说道。“有家公司一度甚至尝试过一个新奇发明，叫电视壁炉，既是电视，又是壁炉。”
So are smartphones having their TV-in-the-kitchen moment?
那么智能手机是不是也有一阵子能得到“厨房电视”的待遇呢？
“Every experience is being mediated and conceived around how it can be captured and augmented by our devices,” said Mathias Crawford, a researcher in human-computer interactions and communications at Stanford University. “No place is this more apparent than our meals, where every portion leading up to, during and after a dining experience is being carved out by particular apps.”
“每一种体验都是围绕着设备捕捉和放大的方式来调节和构思的，”斯坦福大学研究人机互动和交流的马蒂亚斯·克劳福德(Mathias Crawford)说道。“这在我们就餐时体现得最明显不过，餐前、餐中及餐后每一部分的体验都通过特别的应用程序进行打造。”
People make dinner reservations on OpenTable; check in on Foursquare when they arrive at the restaurant; take a picture of their food to share on Instagram; post on Twitter a joke they hear during the meal; review the restaurant on Yelp; then, finally, coordinate a ride home using Uber.
人们通过OpenTable在餐厅订位；到达餐厅后在Foursquare上签到；拍摄食物照片分享到Instagram上；吃饭时听到的笑话发到推特上；然后在Yelp上对饭馆进行评价；最后用Uber安排车辆回家。
“If you’re wondering when people are going to reject the phone, that will mean they need to reject Silicon Valley’s entire concept of how you ought to be dining,” Mr. Crawford said. But, he added, it was possible. “Yes, society is changing, but the iPhone is only really six years old, and those changes aren’t set in place.” Given the overwhelming response to Ms. deGuzman’s video, people are at least thinking about those changes.
“如果你想知道什么时候人们会对手机产生反感，那意味着他们必须对硅谷构造的整个就餐理念产生反感，”克劳福德说。但他又补充说，这是有可能的。“对，社会在不断变化，但苹果手机不过6岁，所以那些变化还没有发生。”从德古兹曼的视频引起的强烈反响看，至少人们已经在考虑这些变化了。
“It wasn’t until this year that I’ve had these revelations about living in the moment without my phone,” Ms. deGuzman said. “I still have my phone with me, but I try to leave it in my purse. Now I find myself just taking in a moment, and I don’t have to post a picture about it.”
“我也是直到今年才开始有了不靠手机而活在当下的想法，”德古兹曼说。“我仍带着手机，但尽量把它放在包里。我自己只是感受某个时刻，但无需为此发张照片。”