Donald Trump, tempering the tone of his hard-line approach to tackling immigration reform, said Monday that he wants to come up with a plan that is “really fair” to address the millions of undocumented immigrants now in the country.
周一，唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)缓和了他在移民改革议题上的强硬路线，表示希望提出一个“非常公正”的方案，来处理美国境内数以百万计的无证件移民。
The softer comments from Trump, who is planning a major immigration speech this week, follow months of vows to build a wall along the southern U.S. border with Mexico and deport immigrants who have entered the country illegally. The strategy was a centerpiece of the platform that helped propel Trump to winning the Republican presidential nomination.
特朗普计划于本周发表有关移民议题的重大演讲。发表此番软化评论之前，数月里他一直发誓，要在美国南部与墨西哥之间的边界线上筑墙，并将非法进入美国的移民驱逐出境。在助推特朗普赢得共和党总统提名的竞选纲领中，这项策略处于核心位置。
Asked on Fox News if he was flip-flopping on his immigration ideas, Trump insisted that he still intends to be “strong” while emphasizing the importance of fairness.
当被Fox新闻频道(Fox News)问道，是否他在移民政策上的态度正在大转弯时，特朗普坚称，他依然想要表现得“强有力”，同时强调公正的重要性。
“We want to come up with a really fair, but firm, answer,” Trump said. “It has to be firm. But we want to come up with something fair.”
“我们希望拿出一个非常公正但又有力的答案，”特朗普说。“必须有力。但我们也希望拿出的东西是公正的。”
Trump’s different tone could be an attempt to court moderate Republican voters disturbed by the candidate’s tough stances on immigration. His remarks come as recent polls have shown him falling behind Hillary Clinton in several swing states.
特朗普的口风改变，或许是为了试图争取那些温和派共和党选民，这些选民因他在移民问题上的强硬立场而感到不安。他发出此番言论的背景，是近期的民意调查持续显示，他在数个摇摆州里落后于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)。
The campaign has sent out conflicting signals about whether Trump would actually change his proposals regarding immigration. Trump’s new campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, signaled over the weekend that the candidate has been rethinking his approach.
在特朗普是否确实会调整自己的移民提议上，他的竞选团队发出了前后矛盾的信号。特朗普的新任竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)周末期间给出的说法显示，他在重新考虑自身的策略。
Pressed in an interview on CNN as to whether a deportation force was still on the table as a law enforcement measure, Conway danced around the question before demurring.
接受CNN采访时，当被逼问遣返移民部队是否仍作为一种执法措施而在考虑范围内时，康维先是避开了正面回答，最后对该可能性表示了怀疑。
“To be determined,” she said.
“待定，”她说。
Over the weekend, Trump met with his newly formed Hispanic advisory council, and BuzzFeed reported that he expressed interest in finding a “humane and efficient” way to deal with undocumented immigrants that sounded at odds with his previous plan to remove them from the country.
同样在周末期间，特朗普与自己新组建的西语裔顾问委员会见了面。BuzzFeed报道，他对找到一种“人道而高效的”对待无证件移民的方式表示出了兴趣，听起来与其此前提出将他们赶出美国的计划相悖。
During his primary campaign, Trump assailed all his Republican rivals for being too weak on immigration. He kicked off his campaign saying that Mexico was sending criminals and rapists into the country, vowed that Mexico would pay for his planned border wall, and called for the “mandatory return of all criminal aliens.”
在共和党初选阶段，特朗普抨击自己所有的对手在移民问题上过于软弱无力。启动自身的竞选活动时，他采用的方式是宣称墨西哥在往美国输送罪犯与强奸者，发誓要让该国承担他计划修建的边境墙的费用，并呼吁“强制遣返所有的外来犯罪分子”。