The photographer Richard Renaldi is a matchmaker for tense times, asking complete strangers to pose with their bodies touching, as if they were intimates. On a recent afternoon in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, it was not going well. He wanted to pose an Orthodox Jewish man with someone from outside the Orthodox community.
在紧张的时刻，摄影师理查德·雷纳尔迪(Richard Renaldi)是一位“撮合者”，他让完全陌生的人像密友一样摆出姿势拍照，身体发生触碰。最近的一个下午，在布鲁克林的威廉斯堡，事情却不怎么顺利。他想要一名犹太教正统派的男子与另一名不属于该教派的人一起摆拍照片。
“It’s going to take all the cajoling I can do,” Mr. Renaldi, 45, said. “There’s a lot of barriers.”
45岁的雷纳尔迪说，“这需要我使尽各种技巧来进行劝说。有很多的障碍。”
There were, in fact, more barriers than he knew. After terse rejections from several people, a man named Abraham Weiss stopped to look at Mr. Renaldi’s large-format, 8-by-10 view camera. Mr. Renaldi made his best pitch.
事实上，其中的障碍甚至比他想到的还多。在被几个人断然拒绝之后，一个叫做亚伯拉罕·韦斯(Abraham Weiss)的人停下来看着雷纳尔迪的大画幅8×10单轨相机。雷纳尔迪使尽了浑身解数。
Mr. Weiss seemed to go back and forth. He ran a photo printing business and understood the project, he told Mr. Renaldi. But he feared censure from his fellow ultra-Orthodox neighbors. “You have to understand the culture,” he said. If he posed for Mr. Renaldi, someone might see him, take a picture and post it on Twitter. “That could be bad for me,” he said. “Posing for it, that’s the problem. They don’t like imaging.”
韦斯看来犹豫不决。他对雷纳尔迪说，他经营一家照片打印店，理解这个项目的意图。但是他害怕被自己那些极度保守的犹太教正统派邻居谴责。他说，“你要理解这个文化。”如果他为雷纳尔迪摆姿势拍照就可能会被别人看到，拍下照片传到Twitter上。他说，“这对我来说影响可能会很糟糕。摆姿势拍照是个问题。他们不喜欢拍照。”
As if on cue, a car slowed and the driver photographed Mr. Weiss with his cellphone. “You see,” Mr. Weiss said. He had one suggestion for Mr. Renaldi: “Try Crown Heights or Borough Park. They’re more open there.”
就像是安排好的一样，这时一辆汽车放慢速度，司机用手机给韦斯拍了一张照片。韦斯说，“你看。”他给雷纳尔迪的建议是：“去皇冠高地或菠萝园试试。那里的人更开放一点。”
Mr. Renaldi has been working on his portrait series, which he calls “Touching Strangers,” since 2007, and plans to publish a book with Aperture next May. One of his goals, he said, is to get people to think past the divisions — ethnic, religious, socioeconomic — that often go unexamined in urban life. “For a lot of people, it’s an exercise for them to be able to push their own comfort level,” he said.
雷纳尔迪从2007年开始就一直在拍摄他的人像系列，他称之为《触摸陌生人》(Touching Strangers)，他计划在明年5月和Aperture合作出版一本书。他说他的目的之一就是让人们超越界限进行思考，不论是种族、宗教、社会经济上的界限，在城市生活中人们很少深究这些问题。他说，“让他们超越自己感觉安全的界线，对很多人来说是一次锻炼。”
Some pairs embrace wholeheartedly; some even kiss, though none on the lips (so far). Others pose as if under duress.
一些配对人物满心接受；一些人甚至还相互亲吻，当然不是唇吻（到目前为止是这样）。其他人则摆出一幅受到强迫的样子。
Mr. Renaldi said he strove to show tenderness but understood why people liked the fraught pairings, like Alex and Carlos from 2007 (Slide 3). “The viewer gets to ask himself, ‘How would I react if a photographer asked me to do that?’ ” he said, adding that he had “a love/hate relationship with this picture and with Alex. Alex was out of there so fast I didn’t get his contact information to send him a print.”
雷纳尔迪说他尽力去表现温柔，但也理解为什么人们喜欢那种让人不安的配对，就像2007年亚历克斯(Alex)和卡洛斯(Carlos)的照片那样（第三张幻灯片）。他说，“看的人会问自己，‘要是一个摄影师要我这么做，我会怎么做？’”，他补充说他“对这张照片和亚历克斯有一种既爱又恨的感觉。亚历克斯很快就走了，我都没来得及要他的联系方式，能给他寄一张照片。”
In Williamsburg on this day, he was experiencing only refusal, a hazard of his chosen project. He has dealt with rejection before: “It took me three years to get a Muslim woman,” he said. But Mr. Weiss’s words, which another man seconded, were discouraging. In six years, Mr. Renaldi said, “I’ve only had one time when I couldn’t get a shot.”
在威廉斯堡的这一天，他一直被拒绝，当然他选择的这个项目本来就有这个风险。他以前也经历过拒绝：“我花了三年时间才找到一个穆斯林妇女，”他说。但是韦斯的话还得到了另一个人的支持，让他很泄气。六年来，雷纳尔迪说，“只有一次我一张照片都没拍成。”
Finally, he left for Crown Heights, where the first person he approached — a 24-year-old Yeshiva student from the Chabad-Lubavitch movement named Shalom Lasker — listened to him and said, in halting English: “No problem. Only men, right?”
最后，他去了皇冠高地，他在那里接触的第一个人听他说完便用磕磕巴巴的英语说：“没问题。只有男人，对吧？”这是一个来自Chabad-Lubavitch组织（犹太教正统派的一个组织——译注）的24岁叶史瓦大学(Yeshiva)学生沙洛姆·拉斯克(Shalom Lasker)。
And so it was. Mr. Renaldi gathered Jeff Desire, 27, who works in a fish market across the street, and directed the pose: hold here, lean here. Mr. Lasker gave a thumbs up. In 10 minutes they were done. “It’s exhilarating,” Mr. Renaldi said.
所以就是这样。雷纳尔迪还找到了在街对面水产市场工作的27岁的杰夫·德西雷(Jeff Desire)，指导他们摆出造型：搂这儿，往这里靠一点。拉斯克翘起了大拇指。10分钟不到就拍完了。雷纳尔迪说，“这让人兴奋。”