TACLOBAN, the Philippines — Increasingly desperate survivors of Typhoon Haiyan mobbed the shattered airport here on Tuesday, begging for food, water or a flight to escape the chaotic aftermath of the storm, which flattened this city of 220,000 five days earlier and ravaged vast swaths of the country’s midsection.
菲律宾塔克洛班——周二，日渐绝望的台风海燕幸存者涌入本地支离破碎的机场，乞求获得食物和水，或是一架逃离风暴之后混乱余波的航班。五天前，风暴重创了菲律宾中部的大片地区，将这座22万人口的城市夷为平地。
Even as an enormous global aid effort gathered momentum and relief supplies began trickling in to the airport here and elsewhere, officials did not have a full grasp of the magnitude of the devastation and could provide no guidance on when basic emergency needs could be met.
浩大的全球救援行动逐渐铺开，救援物资开始慢慢抵达本地机场和其他地区，尽管如此，官方依然对受灾程度缺乏全面的了解，也说不清何时才能满足基本的迫切需求。
While President Benigno S. Aquino III suggested in a CNN interview that estimates of 10,000 or more dead may turn out to be high, international relief officials said they were still assuming the worst and expressed worry that bottlenecks and delays could prevent them from reaching millions of victims for days.
总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)在CNN的一次采访中表示，事实也许会证明1万以上的死亡人数是个偏高的估计，国际救援官员则说，他们依然在做最坏的打算，并且表示，救援瓶颈和延误恐怕会使他们在几天之内都接触不到数百万的灾民。
Officials in Manila found themselves on the defensive, asserting that they were doing the best they could despite a storm that Valerie Amos, the top United Nations relief coordinator, who flew to the capital on Tuesday to help take charge of efforts, called the “most deadly and destructive” to hit the Philippines. She pleaded for more than $300 million in emergency aid.
马尼拉的官员发现自己饱受指责，于是声称，尽管联合国救援事务主管瓦莱丽·阿莫斯(Valerie Amos)称这场风暴给菲律宾“造成了最严重的伤亡和破坏”，他们依然在竭尽所能。阿莫斯于周二飞抵菲律宾首都，协助指挥救援行动。她请求外界提供逾3亿美元（约合18.27亿元人民币）的紧急救援资金。
“There has been a lot of commentary that relief is not moving as fast as it should be,” said Praveen Agrawal, the World Food Program’s Philippines representative and country director. “The reality on the ground is there is such a level of devastation.”
世界粮食计划署(World Food Program)驻菲律宾代表兼国别事务主管普拉文·阿格拉沃尔(Praveen Agrawal)指出，“有许多评论说，救援速度没达到应有的要求。救援现场的现实则是，灾情严重到了如此地步。”
The travails reached new heights on Tuesday in Tacloban, a formerly thriving city in the east-central Philippines that appeared to get the full force of the typhoon. Wearing face masks or pulling their shirts up over their noses to suppress the smell of bodies rotting on the streets, a procession of survivors three miles long walked toward the airport, where relief supplies had begun to arrive.
周二，塔克洛班经受的创痛达到了新的高度，这个曾经繁华的菲律宾中东部城市似乎遭到了台风的全力扫荡。一支三英里（约合4.8公里）长的幸存者队伍向机场走去，救援援物资已开始抵达那里，有的人戴着口罩，有的人用衬衣捂住鼻子，为的是遮掩街头腐烂尸体散发的气味。
They witnessed the despair of survivors like Erroll de la Cruz, 34, who squatted next to the pavement to scrawl the names of his wife, Michelle, and her 7-year-old son, Matthew, on a piece of plywood. Then he walked across the crowded road and laid the plywood between their corpses, in the hope that their lives would be remembered, and that perhaps the identification could help him trace the final burying place of their remains.
他们目睹了一些幸存者的绝望境况，比如埃罗尔·德拉·克鲁斯(Erroll de la Cruz)。34岁的克鲁斯蹲在人行道旁，在一块胶合板上胡乱划拉妻子米歇尔(Michelle)和七岁儿子马修(Matthew)的名字。之后，他穿过拥挤的马路，把板子放在二人的尸首中间，希望他们得到人们的悼念，也希望这个标识能让他日后找到两人遗骸的最后掩埋处。
“I don’t think I can handle this by myself,” he said quietly.
他静静地说，“我看我一个人应付不了这件事情。”
The people of Tacloban had been struggling largely on their own with the devastation of Typhoon Haiyan. The difficulties of distributing relief assistance have made the lives of the survivors far more difficult.
在很大程度上，塔克洛班的居民一直在依靠自身苦苦应对台风“海燕”造成的灾情。救灾物资的发放面临种种障碍，让幸存者的生活难上加难。
Some residents were understanding of the delays in distributing food. Lamberto Patau, 31, a bus dispatcher, said more relief shipments had arrived than could be handed out. “There is food, but there is no one to distribute it because they were all victims,” he said.
一些居民对食物分发发生拖延的状况表示理解。31岁的公交调度员兰贝托·帕托(Lamberto Patau)说，抵达的救灾物资比能够分发出去的要多。他说，“吃的在这，可是没人分发，因为大家都是灾民。”
The devastation apparent during an eight-mile drive into the city center made the extent of the challenge clear. Mounds of debris up to 15 feet high towered next to the main road. Concrete pillars and other hazards had fallen into traffic lanes, forcing drivers, motorcyclists and pedestrians to dodge and weave.
往市中心驱车8英里，途中见到的灾情就清晰地表明了挑战的严重程度。主路边堆着高达15英尺的瓦砾。水泥柱和其他危险物品掉在了交通线路上，迫使司机、骑摩托车的人和行人迂回躲避。
Police officers were operating a series of simple checkpoints, built of little more than scraps of wood, to try to restrain unruly behavior. An 8 p.m. curfew has been imposed.
警察用比碎木头好不了多少的材料搭起了一系列简易的检查站，试图借此限制不守规矩的行为。从晚上8点开始的宵禁已经付诸实施。
Jennifer Cicco, the administrator of the Leyte Island chapter of the Philippines Red Cross, said the conservative estimate from provincial officials was that in addition to the deaths in Tacloban, 10,000 people may have died in surrounding Leyte Province. The province is home to 1.3 million, almost all living on the coast, where many fishing villages were unprepared for the fury of the storm.
菲律宾红十字会雷伊泰省分会主管珍妮弗·奇科(Jennifer Cicco)说，省里官员的保守估计是，除去塔克洛班的死亡人数不算，该市所在的雷伊泰省也许已经死了1万人。该省有130万人口，他们几乎都住在海边，那里的许多渔村对此次风暴的凶悍来袭毫无准备。
The official death toll for the entire country was 1,798 as of 8 p.m. Tuesday, according to the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council. But many of the hardest-hit areas had not yet been reached.
根据菲律宾国家减灾风险管理委员会(National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council)的消息，截至周二晚8点，官方公布的全国死亡人数是1798人。不过，许多受灾最重的地区还没联系上。
The International Committee of the Red Cross tried to send a dozen truckloads of supplies to Tacloban from Davao in the southern Philippines ahead of the typhoon, only to find that the storm had moved so fast that the trucks did not reach their destination in time. A hungry crowd tried to hijack the convoy around 20 miles south of the city, forcing it to stop, and by Tuesday night the roads were still too unsafe for the convoy to proceed, Ms. Cicco said.
台风抵达前，红十字国际委员会(The International Committee of the Red Cross)曾试图将12车物资从菲律宾南部的达沃运往塔克洛班，结果发现风暴移动的速度太快，致使卡车未能及时抵达目的地。奇科说，在塔克洛班以南约20英里的地方，一群饥肠辘辘的人逼停车队，试图进行抢劫，截至周二晚间，路上仍然很不安全，车队无法继续前行。
Instead of experienced police officers directing the ever-growing crowds at the airport who were trying to flee the city on Tuesday, the job fell to young soldiers with M-16 assault rifles and bandoleers of ammunition.
周二，聚集在机场的人越来越多，他们试图离开这座城市。疏导人群的却不是经验丰富的警察，而是年轻的士兵，这些士兵佩带着M-16冲锋枪，弹药夹里装满了弹药。
The airport still had no radar or other effective air traffic control system; it was contacting the relief planes via radio once they came within nine to 12 miles of the city, and asking them to take turns using the runway. Only small planes with limited capacity, mostly propeller planes, could use the airport because of the air traffic control problem and the lack of portable staircases for reaching the doorways of larger jets. Virtually all of the airport’s portable staircases were destroyed by the storm.
机场依旧没有雷达，也没有其他有效的空中交通管制系统，只能在救援飞机飞进离塔克洛班9至12英里的范围之后，通过无线电联系飞机，让它们轮流使用跑道。因为空中交通管制方面的这个问题，再加上缺少连接大飞机舱门的移动舷梯，能使用这座机场的只有运载能力有限的小飞机，主要是螺旋桨飞机。实际上，机场所有的移动舷梯都被这场风暴毁坏了。
American officials in Washington said later Tuesday that the Philippine authorities had asked the United States Air Force to help manage traffic at the airport and send radar and electronic equipment for a temporary tower, which will allow navigation at night and in poor weather.
华盛顿的美国官员在周二晚些时候表示，菲律宾当局已经请求美国空军(United States Air Force)帮助管理该机场的交通，送去雷达和电子设备，以便搭建一个临时指挥塔。临时指挥塔可以让飞机在夜间和恶劣天气进出这座城市。
In the city, conditions were even worse than on the road. So many putrefying corpses lay uncollected that senior Philippine military officers complained of severe nausea from the stench. Water and food were scarce, and looters picked through the mangled remains of stores in the hope of finding anything of value. The municipal prison had released all its inmates as the typhoon hit the city, urging them to save themselves from drowning. Little effort had yet been made to find them.
城里的情况甚至比路上还糟。太多腐烂的尸体未得到清理，以致于一些菲律宾高级军官抱怨恶臭令人极度不适。水和食物匮乏，哄抢者在严重受损的店铺废墟中翻拣，希望能找到有价值的东西。台风来袭时，塔克洛班市监狱释放了所有囚犯，让他们自救，免得淹死。目前还没有采取什么措施来寻找这些囚犯。
Some survivors were growing angry.
一些幸存者变得愤怒起来。
“There’s no food coming, but that is not as big a problem as dealing with the dead,” said Juanita Experas, 63, who lives in a village near Tacloban. “There are dead bodies everywhere, and it is making us sick.”
“没有食物送来，但相比于处理遇难者遗体，这还不是大问题，”63岁的胡安妮塔·埃克斯佩拉斯(Juanita Experas)说，“到处都是死尸，让我们很恶心。”埃克斯佩拉斯住在塔克洛班附近的一个村子里。
Manuel Aballe, 27, who began the long trudge to the airport with his wife and 2-month-old baby, said, “We have to get out of Tacloban or we will die here of hunger.”
27岁的曼努埃尔·阿瓦列(Manuel Aballe)说，“我们必须离开塔克洛班，否则就会饿死在这里。”他和妻子带着两个月大的孩子，开始往机场长途跋涉。
Mayor Alfred S. Romualdez of Tacloban said in a brief interview that he was aware of difficulties, but described them as affecting nearby villages more than his city.
塔克洛班市市长阿尔弗雷德·S·罗穆亚尔德斯(Alfred S. Romualdez)在接受简短采访时说，他很清楚当前的困难，但这些困难对附近村庄的影响比对他领导的城市要大。
“These communities are very difficult to access,” he said. “Many people are confused and don’t have cellphone service.”
“很难进入这些社区，”他说，“许多人一筹莫展，而且没有手机服务。”
Mr. Romualdez said he had personally lost everything, including his house. But he suggested that reports of damage to Tacloban might have been exaggerated, saying the authorities have confirmed a couple of hundred deaths.
罗穆亚尔德斯说，他自己也失去了包括房子在内的一切。但他表示介绍塔克洛班灾情的报道可能有所夸大，称当局已经证实，只有几百人死亡。
Despite the many difficulties, there were hints of improvements on Tuesday. The United States, which has dispatched an aircraft carrier and an accompanying flotilla of aid ships that could arrive within days, sent in C-130 propeller cargo planes at a faster tempo to take survivors to safety. Some roads opened to nearby towns and villages.
尽管困难重重，周二还是出现了好转迹象。美国加快了派遣C-130螺旋桨货机的速度，目的是将幸存者转移到安全地带，美国派出的航空母舰和随行救援船队也将在几天之内抵达。通往附近城镇和村庄的部分公路已经开放。
But the crowds milling at the airport grew faster than the number of people leaving on Philippine and United States Air Forces planes, possibly because word of additional flights had started to spread.
然而，机场人群的规模比乘坐菲律宾和美国空军飞机离开的人数增长得快，这可能是因为航班增加的消息已开始扩散。
Sally Reyes, 29 years old and seven months pregnant, said she had been waiting for four days at the airport with no food or water from the government, only donations from relatives. She had been pleading for a flight out every day, she said, and planned to keep pleading.
29岁的萨莉·雷耶斯(Sally Reyes)怀着7个月的身孕，她说自己已经在机场等了四天，这期间没有收到政府提供的食物或水，只有亲戚的捐赠。她说自己每天都在请求登上一趟离开的航班，并计划一直请求下去。