It has been eight years since a set of Danish cartoons portraying the prophet Muhammad incited rioting in much of the Muslim world. In the eyes of many Americans, the protests were incomprehensible, a collective temper tantrum spawned by dopey sketches. Muslims were accused, among much else, of lacking a sense of humor. But what if the outcry reflected less on Islamic culture than on cartoon culture, which has its own history of flare-ups and meltdowns? The question goes to the heart of Victor S. Navasky’s thoughtful and deftly illustrated book, “The Art of Controversy: Political Cartoons and Their Enduring Power.”
8年前，一组描绘先知穆罕默德的丹麦漫画引发了许多穆斯林地区的骚乱。在很多美国人眼中，这些抗议活动难以理解，是愚蠢的速写画挑起的一场集体脾气大发作。穆斯林遭受到各种谴责，其中一条就是缺乏幽默感。但是，漫画文化也有它自己的浮沉史，如果这些抗议活动反映出更多漫画文化的问题，而不是伊斯兰文化的问题，那又如何呢？这就是维克多·S·纳瓦斯基(Victor S. Navasky)的《争论的艺术：政治漫画及其经久不衰的威力》(The Art of Controversy: Political Cartoons and Their Enduring Power)的一个核心问题。该书配图巧妙，是作者深思熟虑的产物。
Navasky, a former editor of The Nation and the founding editor of the defunct humor magazine Monocle, has been described as a “word man,” but here he is eager to dwell among image people. He situates the Danish cartoons in exalted company, rubbing them up against the work of canonical masters of graphic satire like William Hogarth in 18th-century England and Honoré Daumier in 19th-­century France. In America, by contrast, political cartoonists are less recognized, perhaps because nothing grows stale faster than fresh newsprint, or perhaps because of the modernist bias that defines art as an elite affair from which any artist with a large following and a regular paycheck is disqualified.
纳瓦斯基曾是《国家》的编辑，也是已经停刊的幽默杂志《Monocle》的创始主编，有人形容他是“字词达人”，但在这本书中，他却热衷于讲述“图画达人”的故事。纳瓦斯基把那些丹麦漫画安置于高贵的同伴之间，将它们与讽刺漫画大师的作品相提并论，这些漫画大师包括18世纪英国的威廉·霍加斯(William Hogarth)和19世纪法国的奥诺雷·杜米埃(Honoré Daumier)。相形之下，在美国，政治漫画家获得的赞誉比较少，这也许是因为没有什么东西比追逐新鲜的新闻报刊过时得更快，或者是因为现代主义的偏见把美术定义为一种精英文化，任何拥有大量粉丝、可以定期收到工资的画家都达不到这个标准。
Today, however, no one would deny the graphic excellence of Thomas Nast, the father of American political cartooning and a master of the timely, New York smackdown. Working as a caricaturist for Harper’s Weekly in the years following the Civil War, he turned William Tweed into the defining emblem of city-hall sleaze. If you do not know Nast’s name, you know his image of a corpulent politician with a stuffed moneybag for a head.
但是，现如今，没有人会否认托马斯·纳斯特(Thomas Nast)在绘画方面的卓越不凡，他是美国政治漫画之父，也是当时“纽约大对决”事件中的一名高人。作为南北战争之后《哈珀周刊》的一名漫画家，纳斯特把威廉·特威德(William Tweed)打造成了市政府丑闻的特色标志。就算你不知道纳斯特的大名，你也可能见过他的一幅作品：一名肥头大耳的政客，脑袋是一个鼓鼓囊囊的钱袋。
Unlike a newspaper editorial, a cartoon has the advantage of visual oomph and succinctness. It poaches on what art historians call the “totemic power of images” — a chunk of jargon that will have to suffice until someone finds a more precise way to describe the inherent emotionalism of pictures. There is no easy way to explain, for instance, why we carry photographs of family members in our wallets when we already know what their faces look like. If you doubt that images are more powerful than words, think of how absurd it would be to give up photographs of people you love and instead frame written descriptions of them (“brown hair, green eyes, scar above left eyebrow”) for display in your home.
不同于报纸社论，漫画的优势在于简洁明了和富有视觉吸引力。它悄悄采用了被艺术史学家称为“影像的图腾力量”的东西——这个术语很长，在找到一种更准确的方式来指代图像的内在感情主义之前，我们也只能用它。举例来说，既然我们已经知道家人长什么样了，为什么还要把他们的照片放在钱包里呢？要解释这个问题并不容易。如果你觉得图像的威力比不上文字，那你不妨这么来想：取出相框中你挚爱的人的照片，在里面放上对他们的文字描述（“棕色头发，绿色眼睛，左边眉毛上方的伤疤”），那将会是多么荒谬。
Caricatures, compared with wallet photographs, offer singular opportunities for insult and offense. “What can be more dangerous to one’s sense of self,” Navasky asks, “than caricature’s implicit claim that, in the guise of jokey exaggeration, the grotesque distortion in fact reveals the truth about one’s miserable character?” Put another way, the art of caricature, which by definition twists and torques the human face away from classical symmetry and in the direction of Frankenstein’s monster, tampers with a person’s appearance and speaks to the high school fear of being tagged as a reject.
漫画跟钱包里的照片有类似之处，它为侮辱和冒犯提供了非凡的机会。“漫画打着诙谐夸张的幌子，隐晦地宣称，丑陋失真的描绘实际上揭示了一个人可悲特质的真相。”纳瓦斯基问道，“对于一个人的自我意识来说，还有什么东西会比这更危险呢？”换句话说，讽刺漫画的要旨在于扭曲人类的面部，使之远离经典的对称美，向着科学怪人的方向靠拢，而讽刺漫画的艺术，就是篡改一个人的外表，唤起人们在高中时代那种害怕自己被打上“不合格”标签的情绪。
Tellingly, history’s most famous political cartoons abound with visions of bodily disfigurement. Daumier fashioned a whole second career from the quirk of nature that endowed King Louis-Philippe with a pear-shaped head. His lithograph “Gargantua” portrays the king as a man-eating freak, his mouth stretched open as if for dental work and rigged with a steep wooden ramp up which the citizens of France are ascending. The image was sufficiently unflattering to send Daumier to jail.
历史上最有名气的政治漫画就充满了肢体丑化的视觉形象，这很能说明问题。上苍的作弄，让路易-菲利普国王(King Louis-Philippe)天生长了一个梨形脑袋，杜米埃利用这一点，开创了自己的整个第二职业生涯。在杜米埃的版画《巨人》(Gargantua)中，国王被描绘成吃人的怪胎，他张着嘴，仿佛是在补牙，一条陡峭的木制坡道从地面升到他的嘴里，法国人民正沿着坡道往上爬。这张漫画直白得足以把杜米埃送进牢房。
Like atom-splitting, a political cartoon can be harnessed for either good or evil. For every cartoon that champions justice, there is another that panders to racial stereotype and sets out to foment prejudice and furious resentment. Navasky devotes an unsettling chapter to Der Stürmer, the Nazi tabloid that specialized in cartoons of Jews — all bulbous noses and creepy-crawly insect bodies — and acclimated Germans to a diet of vicious graphic invective.
就像原子裂变一样，政治漫画既可以用来行善，也可以用来作恶。每出现一幅拥护公正的漫画，就会存在另一幅迎合种族成见、煽动偏见和愤怒不满情绪的漫画。纳瓦斯基专门用了一章来讲纳粹小报《先锋报》(Der Stürmer)，这份报纸专攻犹太人漫画——画中所有的犹太人都有又肥又圆的鼻子和让人毛骨悚然的昆虫状躯体——并让德国人习惯于图像化的恶毒谩骂。这是一个令人不安的章节。
Although the first four chapters of Navasky’s book amount to an engaging meditation on cartoon history, the remainder is too disjointed to offer much in the way of reading pleasure. It brings together 31 essays on as many cartoonists from different centuries and continents, and is afflicted by the anthology curse, whereby the omissions sometimes overshadow the inclusions. Where, for starters, are Garry Trudeau, Tom Toles, Tom Tomorrow and Jen Sorensen, who rank among our most gifted lifters of political veils and pre­tenses? And why are there no female graphic artists featured here, besides the long-dead Käthe Kollwitz? Navasky doesn’t explain. At times his prose is surprisingly puffy, with too few insights and too many tangential shout-outs to his friends and colleagues. “In the summer of 2010 in an elevator at the estimable Hotel Raphael in Rome,” he notes, “I spotted Time’s brilliant former art critic, the late Australian-born Robert Hughes.” The sentence gives rise to its own cartoon image: Two journalists known for their scathing criticism of power and wealth mingling in a luxury hotel.
书的前四章基本上是漫画史的沉思录，相当动人，但其余的章节非常杂乱，无法为读者提供太多的阅读乐趣。它汇集了31篇文章，涉及31位来自不同世纪、不同大陆的漫画家，文集的通病也出现在这本书中：它遗漏的东西有时候比它覆盖的内容更明显。比如说，加里·特鲁多(Garry Trudeau)、汤姆·托尔斯(Tom Toles)、汤姆·拖莫若(Tom Tomorrow)和珍·索伦森(Jen Sorensen)在哪里呢？他们也是一流的政治面纱及伪装揭露者。而且，除了早已过世的凯特·珂勒惠支(Käthe Kollwitz)之外，为什么没有女性漫画家被提到？纳瓦斯基没有解释原因。他的文章有时候水分多得惊人，真知灼见太少，提及朋友和同事的离题内容又太多。“2010年夏天，在罗马豪华的拉斐尔酒店里，”他写道，“我在电梯上遇到了罗伯特·休斯(Robert Hughes)，他出生在澳大利亚，曾担任《时代周刊》的艺术评论家，现在已经过世。”这句话本身就勾勒出了一幅漫画：两个以尖刻批评权力和财富闻名的记者，却在一家豪华酒店里相遇。
At the moment, the future of political cartoons may seem as uncertain as that of newspapers themselves, whose publishers are scrambling to devise the formula that will grant them eternal online life. In the meantime, Navasky contends, cartoons stand to benefit from the new technology. “Rather than dating them,” he writes, “the World Wide Web and digital media appear to extend their reach.” This might seem to be good news. Yet an increase in distribution channels is not the same thing as a creative renaissance, and so far major online news sites have resisted the chance to hire their own political cartoonists. An exception is Politico, where the resident artist Matt Wuerker casts a comic beam of light on the drama of Obama’s Washington.
当前，政治讽刺漫画的未来似乎充满了不确定性，就跟报纸本身的未来差不多。报纸发行商正在争先恐后地寻找方法，希望在网络上获得永生。与此同时，纳瓦斯基认为，漫画可以从这种新技术中受益。“互联网和数字媒体并没有让漫画显得过时，”他写道，“反而能把漫画传播给更多的观众。”这似乎是个好消息。然而，传播渠道的增加跟创作的复兴不是一回事，到目前为止，所有的知名新闻网站都拒绝了自己聘请政治漫画家的机会。只有Politico是个例外，该网站的常驻画家马特·维克尔(Matt Wuerker)用漫画来诠释奥巴马政府上演的剧情。
All in all, newspaper cartoonists no longer wield the incalculable sway they had in the heyday of Herbert Block, better known as Herblock, who turned Nixon’s jowls and beady eyes into the face of Watergate. We still have cartoons, but it is not clear that we have influential cartoons, the kind that once inserted themselves into the stream of public speech as emphatically as exclamation points. Besides, the most memorable jabs at our political leaders and national foibles these days come from Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert, who are not known to play around with ink and artists’ brushes. At some point, right in front of our eyes, the art of political satire sneaked from the pages of morning newspapers into the din of late-night.
总的说来，现在的报纸漫画家不再拥有赫伯特·布洛克(Herbert Block)鼎盛时期拥有的那种无边法力了。布洛克有一个更为人熟知的名字，叫赫布洛克(Herblock)，把尼克松的下颌和小圆眼睛塑造成“水门事件”标志的人就是他。漫画仍然存在，但是那种影响力强大的、可以像惊叹号一样富有冲击力地插入大量公众演讲之间的漫画，它们是否仍然存在，目前还不清楚。此外，在猛戳政治领导者和国家的缺点时，最令人难忘的表现来自于深夜脱口秀节目主持人乔恩·斯图尔特(Jon Stewart)和斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)，而他们的特长既不是撰文，也不是绘画。某时某刻，就在我们眼前，政治讽刺的艺术从晨报的版面潜入到了深夜的聒噪中。