From a certain perspective, certainly the Kremlin’s, Vladimir Kara-Murza’s behavior in Washington could be seen as treasonous, a brazen betrayal of his homeland.
从特定角度看——这其中无疑包括克里姆林宫的视角——弗拉基米尔·卡拉-穆尔扎(Vladimir Kara-Murza)在华盛顿的所作所为可以被贴上卖国的标签，是对其祖国的无耻背叛。
In a series of public meetings on Capitol Hill, Mr. Kara-Murza, a leader in the Russian opposition, urged American lawmakers to expand economic sanctions against the Russian government under a law known as the Magnitsky Act. That would hasten political change in Russia, he argued.
在国会山的一系列公开会议上，俄罗斯反对派领导人卡拉-穆尔扎敦促美国立法者根据《马格尼茨基法案》(Magnitsky Act)扩大对俄罗斯政府的经济制裁。他表示，这会促进俄罗斯的政治变革。
Back in Moscow a month later, in May 2015, the changes Mr. Kara-Murza detected were going on in his own body. Midway through a meeting with fellow dissidents, beads of sweat inexplicably dotted his forehead. His stomach churned.
2015年5月，也就是卡拉-穆尔扎回到莫斯科一个月以后，他觉察到发生变化的是他自己的身体。在和其他异见人士会面时，他的额头上莫名其妙地布满了汗珠。他的胃里翻江倒海。
“It all went so fast,” he recalled. “In the space of about 20 minutes, I went from feeling completely normal to having a rapid heart rate, really high blood pressure, to sweating and vomiting all over the place, and then I lost consciousness.” He had ingested a poison, doctors told him after he emerged from a weeklong coma, though they could find no identifiable trace of it.
“一切来得特别快，”他回忆道。“大约20分钟时间里，我从感觉完全正常发展到心率加快，血压极高，然后大汗淋漓，吐得到处都是，然后失去了意识。”从一个星期的昏迷中苏醒过来后，医生告知他曾摄入一种有毒物质，不过他们找不到这种物质的明显痕迹。
While Mr. Kara-Murza survived, few others in his position have proved as lucky. He said he was certain he had been the target of a security service poisoning. Used extensively in the Soviet era, political murders are again playing a prominent role in the Kremlin’s foreign policy, the most brutal instrument in an expanding repertoire of intimidation tactics intended to silence or otherwise intimidate critics at home and abroad.
卡拉-穆尔扎侥幸逃过一劫，但有着类似遭遇的其他人基本没这么幸运。他说他可以确定，自己是安全部门毒杀的目标。在苏联时代得到广泛应用的政治谋杀正卷土重来，在克里姆林宫的外交政策中发挥重要作用——克里默林宫用以压制或恐吓国内外批评人士的威逼手段越来越多，而政治暗杀是其中最残忍的一种。
Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, has made no secret of his ambition to restore his country to what he sees as its rightful place among the world’s leading nations. He has invested considerable money and energy into building an image of a strong and morally superior Russia, in sharp contrast with what he portrays as weak, decadent and disorderly Western democracies.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)毫不掩饰自己的野心，要让俄罗斯重拾其所说的在世界强国中间应有的地位。他投入了大量金钱和精力，要塑造一个强大的、道德高尚的俄罗斯——和他所描绘的孱弱、堕落、混乱的西方民主国家截然不同。
Muckraking journalists, rights advocates, opposition politicians, government whistle-blowers and other Russians who threaten that image are treated harshly — imprisoned on trumped-up charges, smeared in the news media and, with increasing frequency, killed.
危及这种形象的揭黑记者、权利倡导人士、反对派政客、在政府机构工作的告密者以及其他一些俄罗斯人，都遭到了严厉的对待——或因莫须有的罪名被关进监狱，或在媒体上被大肆诋毁，还有越来越多的人被杀。
Political murders, particularly those accomplished with poisons, are nothing new in Russia, going back five centuries. Nor are they particularly subtle. While typically not traceable to any individuals and plausibly denied by government officials, poisonings leave little doubt of the state’s involvement — which may be precisely the point.
政治谋杀，尤其是以投毒方式进行的政治谋杀，在俄罗斯并不新鲜，最早可以追溯到五个世纪前。同时这种行动也谈不上有多隐秘。尽管通常难以确认由哪个人授意，而且会被政府官员言之凿凿地否认，但毫无疑问，毒杀案少不了政府的参与——这也许恰恰就是目的所在。
“Outside of popular culture, there are no highly skilled hit men for hire,” Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University and an authority on the Russian security services, said in an interview. “If it’s a skilled job, that means it’s a state asset.”
“高水平的雇佣杀手是仅存于流行文化作品的，”纽约大学教授、研究俄罗斯安全部门的权威马克·加莱奥蒂(Mark Galeotti)在一次采访中表示。“只要是高水平的手法，就说明这是一项政府资源。”
Other countries, notably Israel and the United States, pursue targeted killings, but in a strict counterterrorism context. No other major power employs murder as systematically and ruthlessly as Russia does against those seen as betraying its interests abroad. Killings outside Russia were even given legal sanction by the nation’s Parliament in 2006.
其他国家，尤其是以色列和美国，会执行定点清除行动，但那是被严格限制在反恐情境之下的。没有哪个大国会像俄罗斯一样，有组织地、无情地雇佣杀手，对付那些被认为在海外出卖其利益的人士。海外谋杀行动甚至在2006年得到了俄罗斯国会的法律许可。
Applied most notoriously in the case of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a Putin opponent who died of polonium-210 poisoning in London in 2006, murders and deaths under mysterious circumstances are now seen as such a menace that Kremlin critics now often flee the country and keep their whereabouts secret.
离奇的谋杀和死亡事件——最出名的一例是普京的政敌亚历山大·V·利特维年科(Alexander V. Litvinenko)于2006年在伦敦死于钋-210中毒——现在已经被视为极大的威胁，克里姆林宫的批评者们纷纷逃离俄罗斯，隐姓埋名。
Russia has never acknowledged using the authority under the 2006 law and has specifically denied any government ties to high-profile cases, including the Litvinenko murder.
俄罗斯从未承认使用过2006年的那项法案所赋予的权力，并明确地否认该国政府与一些引人瞩目的案件有任何关联，包括利特维年科谋杀案。
Still, the Magnitsky Act, the law that Mr. Kara-Murza was in Washington urging lawmakers to expand, has proved to be perhaps the most lethal topic of all over the years.
但事实证明，卡拉-穆尔扎在华盛顿敦促立法者加以拓展的那项《马格尼茨基法案》，或许是多年来最为致命的话题。
Sergei L. Magnitsky, a lawyer and auditor, was jailed on tax evasion charges while investigating a $230 million government tax “refund” that corrupt Russian officials had granted to themselves. He died in 2009 after having been denied essential medical care in prison, earning the Kremlin widespread condemnation.
在就2.3亿美元政府“退税”被腐败的俄罗斯官员收入私囊一事展开调查之际，律师兼审计师谢尔盖·L· 马格尼茨基(Sergei L. Magnitsky)因逃税的罪名入狱。2009年，他在当局拒绝提供必要的医疗救助后去世，让克里姆林宫广受舆论的谴责。
In response, William F. Browder, an American financier who was the target of the tax fraud during time he spent working in Russia and had employed Mr. Magnitsky, campaigned in Congress for a law punishing the officials involved in the misdeeds and subsequent mistreatment of the auditor. The proposed measure, which eventually passed in 2012 as the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law and Accountability Act, denied visas and blocked access to the American financial system for Russians deemed to have committed rights abuses and avoided punishment at home — including those involved in the Magnitsky tax fraud case.
作为回应，在俄罗斯工作期间成为那场税务欺诈案的被告，并雇用了马格尼茨基的美国金融家威廉·F·布劳得(William F. Browder)，竭力敦促国会通过一项法案，惩处与相关罪行以及马格尼茨基随后遭受的虐待有关的官员。拟议中的举措在2012年以《谢尔盖·马格尼茨基法治与责任法案》(Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law and Accountability Act)之名获得通过。根据该法案，美国拒绝向在俄罗斯侵犯人权但却逃掉了惩罚的俄罗斯人——包括牵涉到马格尼茨基税务欺诈案的官员——发放入境签证，并禁止他们使用美国的金融系统。
Mr. Putin, perceiving an intrusion into his country’s affairs, campaigned hard against the measure. When it passed, he retaliated by ending American adoptions of Russian children. The law became a prototype for the blacklisting of prominent Russians accused of murders, human rights abuses and financial theft, among other violations.
认为俄罗斯内政受到干涉的普京极力游说，反对该法案。法案通过时，他进行了报复，禁止美国家庭领养俄罗斯儿童。该法成了把被控犯有谋杀、侵犯人权和金融盗窃等违法行为的俄罗斯名人列入黑名单的原型。
The question of who was involved in the tax fraud became vitally important first to the investigation, and eventually to the final scope of the legislation. Access to inside information became pivotal and, it turned out, lethal. To date, five people who either handed over such information or were potential witnesses have died under mysterious circumstances that, in their sophistication, suggest state-sponsored killings.
那场税务欺诈案的涉案人员是谁这个问题起初是对调查极其重要，最后对该法的最终适用范围也具有重要意义。掌握内部信息变得颇为关键，而且事实证明，这种做法非常危险。迄今为止，已有五个要么是提供了这类信息，要么是潜在证人的人离奇死亡。相关死亡的精密程度表明，这些是由国家发起的谋杀。
One of the victims was Mr. Magnitsky, whose death was hardly the stuff of cloak-and-dagger security operations. Two others died before Mr. Magnitsky. And as the case gained greater prominence, others began dying under mysterious circumstances.
马格尼茨基便是遇害者之一。他的死称不上是神秘的安全行动的结果。在他之前，已有两人死亡。随着案件的知名度越来越高，其他人开始神秘死亡。
One victim whose death preceded Mr. Magnitsky’s, Valery Kurochkin, a potential witness whose name appeared on documents related to the fraud, fled Russia for Ukraine but died there of liver failure at the age of 43.
先于马格尼茨基遇害的瓦列里·库罗奇金(Valery Kurochkin)是一名潜在的证人。他的名字出现在了和那桩欺诈案有关的文件里。从俄罗斯逃到乌克兰的他因肝功能衰竭死于乌克兰，时年43岁。
The other, Oktai Gasanov, a low-level figure in the fraud case but one who might have shed light on the group’s modus operandi, died of heart failure at 53.
另一名遇害者奥克塔伊·哈桑诺夫(Oktai Gasanov)在该欺诈案中级别较低，但他可能对该团伙的运作方式有所了解。他死于心梗，时年53岁。
Then, after Mr. Magnitsky’s death in prison, a fourth insider met an untimely end in a plunge from a balcony. A fifth, a banker linked to the scheme, Alexander Perepilichny, made it to London in 2009 and passed wire-transfer records to Swiss investigators. In 2012, however, at the age of 44 and in apparently excellent health, he suffered a heart attack while jogging. Police were left scratching their heads over the body found crumpled on a road in a well-guarded housing development, home to Kate Winslet and Elton John. An autopsy initially did nothing to clear up the questions.
在马格尼茨基在狱中去世后，第四个知情者的生命在其从阳台纵身一跃后走到了终点。第五个神秘死亡的人是和该案有牵连的银行业从业者亚历山大·佩列皮里奇尼(Alexander Perepilichny)。他2009年抵达伦敦，并把电汇记录交给了瑞士调查人员。然而2012年，似乎非常健康的他在慢跑时心梗发作。44岁的他被发现瘫倒在一个守卫森严的住宅小区里的路上。凯特·温斯莱特(Kate Winslet)和埃尔顿·约翰(Elton John)也是该小区的住户。面对他的遗体，警方百思不得其解。起初，尸检没能对相关疑问做出任何解答。
It was not until 2015 that a botanist was able to identify the presumptive cause of Mr. Perepilichny’s death: His stomach held traces of gelsemium, a rare, poisonous plant grown in the Himalayas and known to have been used in Chinese assassinations. A coroner’s inquest is scheduled for September.
直到2015年，一名植物学家才找出佩列皮里奇尼的假定死因：他的胃里有钩吻的残留物。钩吻（俗称断肠草——译注）是一种罕见的有毒植物，生长在喜马拉雅山脉中。据知，它曾出现在中国的暗杀活动中。验尸官定于9月再次进行调查。
“All of this sounds like paranoid conspiracy theories,” Mr. Browder said in a telephone interview. “But there are too many of these happening to important people. Captains of industry and lawyers are not dying left, right and center like this in the West.”
“所有这一切听上去像是偏执多疑的阴谋论，”布劳得在接受电话采访时说。“但发生在重要人士身上的这种事情太多了。在西方，行业领袖和律师是不会像这样大量死去的。”