More than two weeks after the military removed President Mohamed Morsi from power, intense efforts to bring the generals and the ex-president’s Islamist supporters to an agreement have so far come up empty, deepening Egypt’s political crisis.
两周多前，埃及军方罢黜了总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)。到目前为止，让军方将领和前总统的伊斯兰派支持者们达成妥协的多种努力都毫无成果，从而加深了埃及的政治危机。
The efforts, according to intermediaries, have been stymied by the military’s refusal so far to release Mr. Morsi and several aides, who are held incommunicado and have not been charged with crimes. In Mr. Morsi’s absence, members of his movement, the Muslim Brotherhood, have continued to demand that the military’s intervention be reversed as a precondition for any settlement.
参与调解的多位人士表示，由于军方仍然拒绝释放穆尔西及几名助手，导致相关努力毫无进展。穆尔西等人遭到扣押，无法与外界联络，但尚未受到刑事指控。在穆尔西被囚的情况下，他领导的运动穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的成员们，仍在继续主张，要想达成任何协议，前提条件都必须是恢复到军方干预前的状态。
“It’s bleak,” said one mediator, adding that the Brotherhood so far does not seem to grasp that Mr. Morsi will not be reinstated. “The military is only willing to talk about the future, not about yesterday or the day before,” he said. “They turned the page on Morsi.”
一位调解人说，“希望很渺茫。”他补充说，穆兄会似乎仍未明白，穆尔西已经没有可能复职了。他说，“军方不想谈昨天或前天，他们只想谈未来。他们已经把穆尔西那一页翻过去了。”
The impasse comes amid fears by the Islamists that the authorities are preparing to break up their sit-in at a Cairo square, which has lasted three weeks. Concerns are also growing that prosecutors who are investigating various allegations against Mr. Morsi could decide to formally file criminal charges against him, a move that is all but certain to lead to another wave of unrest.
随着僵局的出现，伊斯兰派担心，当局正在准备驱散他们在开罗一座广场上的静坐活动。目前，静坐已持续了三周。另外一种日愈加深的忧虑是，检方正在调查针对穆尔西的各种指控，并可能会决定正式对他提起刑事指控。此举必然会引起新一轮动荡。
Such charges would probably “signal the end of a potential political deal,” said Heba Morayef, the Egypt director for Human Rights Watch. “The decision will have been made to exclude them from the political system. I think it will lead to protests that are likely to turn violent and mass arrests of members of the Muslim Brotherhood.”
这样的指控，可能会“预示着潜在的政治协议的终结”，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)埃及分部主任赫巴·莫拉耶夫(Heba Morayef)称。“这一决定会将他们排除在政治体系之外。我认为这将引发可能会演变成暴力事件的抗议活动，而且穆兄会成员会大量被捕。”
Despite persistent rumors of direct talks, Brotherhood leaders strongly deny they are negotiating face to face with the military, absent any discussions between their imprisoned leader and his military captors. The lack of contact with Mr. Morsi has complicated matters for his colleagues on the outside.
尽管一直存在直接对话的传言，但是穆兄会领导人强调，他们并没有面对面地与军方谈判，只是不知道遭扣押的领导人与扣押他的军方是否进行了任何讨论。在与穆尔西失去联系的情况下，外界的穆兄会成员的处境变得更加复杂。
In the months before his ouster, some of the movement’s leaders encouraged Mr. Morsi to reach a compromise with the military but said that he resisted. For now, Egyptian political figures and diplomats say they are passing messages between the two camps, and trying to warn Egypt’s new leaders that any effort to suppress the Brotherhood would be doomed to failure.
在穆尔西被罢黜之前的几个月，一些穆兄会领导人鼓励穆尔西与军方妥协，但是他们说，穆尔西拒绝了。现在，埃及政治人物及外交官称，他们在为两个阵营传递消息，并且试图警告埃及新领导人，任何打压穆兄会的行为，都必然会失败。
“We did the unimaginable to them: we hanged them, tortured them, rounded them up in prisons, shipped them to detention centers,” said the mediator, who requested anonymity because efforts at dialogue were continuing. “Did they die? Are they extinct? Have they disappeared? No.”
上述调解人说，“我们曾对他们做过不可想象的事情：我们绞死他们，折磨他们，把他们关进监狱，将他们运到拘留所。但是他们死绝了吗？覆灭了吗？消失了吗？没有。”由于开展对话的努力仍在进行，这位调解人要求匿名。
Egypt’s military-backed leaders have moved quickly to assert their legitimacy, naming a 34-member government and announcing plans to start amending the Constitution passed by Egyptians just seven months ago. Neighboring countries that cheered the Brotherhood’s demise have rushed to provide Egypt with financial help. On Thursday, the Central Bank announced that it had received $3 billion in aid from the United Arab Emirates.
由军方支持的埃及领导人快速采取行动树立起了合法性，任命了有34名成员的政府，并宣布了开始对埃及仅仅七个月前通过的宪法进行修订的计划。对穆兄会倒台欢欣鼓舞的邻国，匆匆忙忙地向埃及提供资金援助。周四，埃及中央银行宣布，收到了阿拉伯联合酋长国30亿美元的援助资金。
The mediator, who is close to senior military officials, said he believed the only concessions the generals were willing to offer were the release of senior leaders, the reopening of Islamist television stations and the possibility that the Brotherhood would not be banned. A military spokesman did not immediately return a call seeking comment on its position.
上述调解人与军方高层关系紧密，他表示，他认为军队将领们愿意做出的妥协，只包括释放高级领导人、重开伊斯兰派电视台，以及穆兄会不被查禁的可能性。一位军方发言人没有立即答复就军方立场发表评论的电话请求。
“This is not a negotiation,” said Amr Darrag, a senior leader of the Brotherhood’s political wing, the Freedom and Justice Party. “This is putting a gun to your head.”
“这根本不是谈判，”穆斯林兄弟会的政治分支自由与正义党(Freedom and Justice Party)的高级领导人阿姆鲁·达拉克(Amr Darrag)说。“这是拿枪指在你脑袋上。”
Mr. Darrag and other Brotherhood leaders expressed a growing sense of isolation, and a bottomless mistrust of the military and its motives. They say diplomats privately express sympathy and even call Mr. Morsi’s ouster a military coup, but have repeatedly pressed the Islamists to move on.
达拉克和其他穆兄会领导人表示，他们产生了越来越强的孤立感，而且对军方和军方的动机有极为深重的不信任。他们透露，外交官们私下表达过同情，甚至还说罢黜穆尔西的举动是军事政变，但他们也反复催促伊斯兰派向前看。
“The Italian ambassador was talking to me the other night,” said Mohammed Ali Beshr, a senior Brotherhood leader who has been meeting with diplomats. “He told me that quick elections were the solution, and that we can be part of that.”
穆兄会一位高级领导人穆罕默德·阿里·贝希尔(Mohammed Ali Beshr)透露，“前几天意大利大使还跟我谈过。”贝希尔一直在与外交官们举行会晤。“他说，解决办法是很快举行选举，而且我们能够参与。”
“I’m telling you, there will be no elections soon,” Mr. Beshr said. “He doesn’t understand. Nobody does.”
“我跟你说，不会很快举行选举，”贝希尔说。“他不明白，谁都不明白。”
The mistrust stems from a feeling of being betrayed by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, who deposed Mr. Morsi after millions of people marched against the president’s rule.
这种不信任的来源是，他们感觉受到了阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)的背叛。在塞西将穆尔西赶下台之前，数百万人曾走上街头，反对总统穆尔西的统治。
“Sisi said to Morsi two days before the coup, ‘My neck before yours, Mr. President,’ ” said one senior Brotherhood leader, who requested anonymity. “He sent us messages that were like tranquilizers and fooled us.”
一位穆兄会高级领导人表示，“在发动政变两天前，塞西对穆尔西说，‘总统先生，要想动你，得先杀了我。’”这位领导人要求匿名。“他向我们发出的消息就像镇静剂，蒙骗了我们。”
Now, the official said, “even if he promises us everything face to face and directly swore to us in person that he will do this and that, we still won’t believe him.”
现在，这名官员表示，“即使他面对我们承诺所有的事，直接亲自向我们发誓他会这样做或那样做，我们也不会相信他了。”
There are signs that a few Brotherhood leaders are softening their positions, but no sign of retreat on the core demand of restoring Mr. Morsi, even if only for a moment before he steps down. Too many of its members have been killed, the leaders said, and their supporters have stuck with them in the streets.
有迹象表明一些穆兄会领导人正在软化立场，但对于恢复穆尔西职务的核心诉求却并没有退让的迹象，哪怕只是短暂地恢复职务让他自行下台。穆兄会领导人说，有太多成员被杀害了，但他们的支持者还在街头与他们并肩示威。
“We will lose all credibility in front of a lot of the people,” Mr. Darrag said. “Now it’s a deadlock.”
“我们会在他们当中的很多人面前彻底失去信誉，”达拉克表示。“现在真是一场僵局。”