LOS ANGELES — In a presidential election year, the only real “October surprise” from Hollywood would be a complete absence of films with political tinges. But don’t worry. It won’t happen. Already, release schedules for the months preceding Nov. 8, Election Day, are peppered with movies that have partisan potential, whether overt or covert.
洛杉矶——在总统大选年，好莱坞带来唯一的“十月惊喜”说不定就是政治色彩的电影彻底缺席。不过别担心。这种事不会发生。总统大选之日是在11月8日，此前的放映计划已经出来了，里面不少电影都是带有党派斗争色彩，有的明显，有的隐晦。
Sometimes, of course, films are subversive in approach. Who knew (other than its devilishly clever writer-director, Joss Whedon) that “Avengers: Age of Ultron” would be read as a parable about the National Security Agency and drone strikes?
当然，电影的方法有时候是颠覆性的。除了聪明惊人的编剧兼导演乔斯·韦登(Joss Whedon)本人，谁知道《复仇者联盟2：奥创纪元》(Avengers: Age of Ultron)可以被解读为关于国家安全局与无人机轰炸的寓言？
Other movies wear politics on their sleeves, and baseball caps. Michael Moore knew exactly what he was doing in 2004, when he opened the contemporary era of partisan filmmaking with his “Fahrenheit 9/11,” a documentary assault on George W. Bush.
其他不少电影也公然表明了自己的政治观点。2004年，迈克尔·摩尔(Michael Moore)非常清楚自己在做什么，凭着一部抨击乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的纪录片《华氏911》(Fahrenheit 9/11)，他开启了党派斗争电影的新时代。
Schedules will shift. New films will surface. But these movies are already a fair bet to touch the political conversation.
上映时间可能会改变，也许会有新电影出来，但是下面这几部肯定会引发政治争议。
“Independence Day: Resurgence”
《独立日2：卷土重来》(Independence Day: Resurgence)
Release: June 24 
上映日期：6月24日
Studio: 20th Century Fox
发行公司：20世纪福克斯
Roland Emmerich — writer, director, producer and pot-stirrer — is big on Apocalyptic moments, as in the original “Independence Day,” wherein aliens destroyed Washington. But he is even bigger on the sort of political messaging that underscored his “The Day After Tomorrow,” which was released by Fox about five months before the 2004 election. That one, about a global freeze, purported to deliver lessons about the dangers of climate-change denial.
编剧、导演、制片兼搅局者罗兰·艾默里奇(Roland Emmerich)特别擅长拍摄末日景象，在最早的《独立日》影片里，外星人毁灭了华盛顿。他更擅长传递政治信息，在《后天》(The Day After Tomorrow)里特别明显，2004年大选前五个月，福克斯公司发行了这部片子，说的是全球冰冻问题，仿佛是给那些拒绝承认全球气候变迁危险性的人上一课。
“Independence Day: Resurgence” brings back the aliens, this time squared off against the first female president of the United States, played by Sela Ward. “She’s strong, decisive and not afraid to kick ass!” Ms. Ward told People last year. That could help Hillary Clinton, as she heads toward a convention that may nominate her as the Democratic presidential candidate. Either way, Fox can reprise a film whose original took in more than $817 million at the worldwide box office.
《独立日2：卷土重来》带回了外星人，这一次，美国在第一位女总统的领导下进行自卫，这个角色由雪拉·渥德(Sela Ward)饰演。“她强大果断，不怕得罪人，”去年，渥德在接受《人物》(People)采访时说。这对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)很有帮助，她正在努力让民主党大会提名她为民主党总统候选人。不管怎样，这部电影的原作在全球获得了8.17亿美元票房，福克斯可以重来一遍了。_________
“The Purge: Election Year”
《人类清除计划3：选举之年》(The Purge: Election Year)
Release: July 1 
上映日期：7月1日
Studio: Universal Pictures
发行公司：环球影业
This one, too, might score points for Mrs. Clinton. It’s the third installment in the writer-director James DeMonaco’s social-horror series about an annual, supposedly cathartic, government-sanctioned crime spree: “The Purge: Election Year” features a female presidential candidate.
这部片子也是为克林顿夫人加分的。它是编剧兼导演詹姆斯·德莫纳克(James DeMonac)这部社会恐怖系列的第三部，讲述一个由政府批准，一年一度的清除活动——犯罪狂欢，其中也有一个女总统候选人。
Universal last month added the magic words “Election Year” to the title of a film that was previously called just “The Purge 3.” Clearly, the studio plans to trade on electoral energy, and it has already made its intentions clear by running an advertising spot for the film during Democratic and Republican debates.
这部片字原本只叫《人类清除计划3》，环球影业上个月为它加上了有魔力的副标题：“选举之年”。显然，公司想利用选举的能量，它在民主党和共和党辩论期间为影片打广告，其用心更是昭然若揭。
It will stay ahead of the unforeseen or unpredictable — like, a triumph by Mrs. Clinton’s Democratic rival Bernie Sanders — by opening before the convention.
影片在民主党大会之前上映，效果如何尚且不可预料，正如克林顿夫人在党内的对手伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)说不定会大胜。_________
“The Founder”
《创始人》(The Founder)
Release: Aug. 5 
上映日期：8月5日
Studio: The Weinstein Company
发行公司：韦恩斯坦公司
“The Founder,” based on the story of the McDonald’s founder Ray Kroc, might be politically neutral. Or it might bounce against, say, Donald Trump, the Republican businessman who for the moment is leading the race for the party’s nomination. Harvey Weinstein, one of the wiliest political progressives in a movie industry filled with them, recently moved “The Founder” from a planned postelection release to early August.
《创始人》建立在麦当劳的创始人雷·克罗克(Ray Kroc)的故事基础上，可能是政治中立的。不过它也可能对共和党商人，目前在党内提名竞争中领先的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)产生不利。电影业内有很多政治改革论者，哈维·温恩斯坦(Harvey Weinstein)是其中最狡猾的之一。《创始人》原定在大选之后上映，最近他把这个日期提前到了8月初。
In explaining the shift, Mr. Weinstein — who backed “Fahrenheit 9/11” — said he meant to show that awards-worthy movies could be released at any time of year, not just in the crowded fourth quarter. But Mr. Kroc, like Mr. Trump, opposed an increase in the minimum wage. It is the sort of thing that seems sure to spark debate, especially if the film, directed by John Lee Hancock and starring Michael Keaton, wades into the politics behind a donation by Kroc to Richard Nixon in the early 1970s, when the minimum-wage issue, as now, was on the table. (Assuming, of course, that Mr. Trump emerges victorious from the July 18 Republican convention.)
韦恩斯坦也是《华氏911》背后的主导人物，在解释这个改变时，他说，他想给观众看看，一部值得获奖的影片可以在全年的任何时段上映，而不仅仅是佳片扎堆的第4季度。但是克罗克和特朗普一样，反对提高最低工资。这种事肯定会引发争议，特别是，如果这部由约翰·李·汉考克(John Lee Hancock)执导，迈克尔·基顿(Michael Keaton)主演的电影还涉及克罗克在70年代初给理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)捐款的事，当时也在讨论最低工资的问题（当然，这是假定特朗普在7月18日共和党大会上获胜的话）。_________
“Southside With You”
《南边有你》(Southside with You)
Release: Aug. 19 
上映日期：8月19日
Studio: Miramax and Roadside Attractions
发行公司：Miramax and Roadside Attractions
Well-received at the Sundance Film Festival in January, Richard Tanne’s “Southside With You,” about the beginning of a love affair between young Barack Obama, played by Parker Sawyers, and his future wife, Michelle Robinson, played by Tika Sumpter, is certain to play as a mildly inspirational, get-out-the-vote call for Democrats. That the film “has meticulously reverse-engineered our knowledge of the Obamas into a sweet, sexy, highly flattering youth portrait is less a criticism than a simple statement of fact,” wrote Justin Chang, in his review for Variety.
理查德·塔恩(Richard Tanne)的《南边有你》在1月的圣丹斯电影节上大受好评，它讲述年轻的贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)与未来的妻子米歇尔·罗宾逊(Michelle Robinson)的故事，奥巴马由帕克·索耶(Parker Sawyers)饰演，米歇尔由提卡·森普特(Tika Sumpter)饰演。它肯定会对于号召民主党员投票起到温和的激励作用。这部影片“微妙地改变了我们对奥巴马夫妇的看法，让我们可以把他们视为一对性感、美好的年轻伴侣，它不是一种批评，更像是陈述一桩事实，”贾斯汀·张(Justin Chang)为《名利场》(Variety)撰文写道。
But in politics, every action has an opposite and sometimes even stronger reaction, noted the veteran consultant Christopher Lehane. In an email almost three years ago, he warned of a downside to the planned release of an indie film titled “Rodham,” a love story about young Hillary Rodham and Bill Clinton that didn’t come together in time for the election cycle.
但是正如资深顾问克里斯托弗·勒哈恩(Christopher Lehane)指出，在政界，任何行为都有另外一面，有时候反作用反而更加强烈。在三年前的一封电子邮件里，他警告，独立电影《罗德姆》(Rodham)可能会带来不好的影响，它讲述年轻的希拉里·罗德姆与比尔·克林顿的爱情故事，它在大选周期内上映的时间并不适宜。
“Of course, the political world (beyond fair time issues) will extrapolate deep political significance around whether it does or does not have commercial success,” wrote Mr. Lehane. The same caution may now apply to the gently partisan “Southside With You”; large or small, the box-office results may be seen as a gauge of political enthusiasm.
“当然，政治界（除去时间问题）会根据影片的商业成功程度，推算出深刻的政治重要性，”勒哈恩写道。同样的算计如今也可以应用在微带党派色彩的《南边有你》上，不管大小，票房结果都会成为衡量政治热情的标准。
For Miramax, which was sold this month to the beIN media group, the film underscores a commitment to backing fresh material, not just remakes and sequels from the library.
对于这个月刚刚被beIN媒体集团收购的Miramax公司来说，这部影片强调公司委员会支持新鲜素材，而不只是从库存中选取老片重拍或拍摄系列大片。_________
“Sully”
《萨利机长》(Sully)
Release: Sept. 9 
上映日期：9月9日
Studio: Warner Bros.
发行公司：华纳兄弟
In Clint Eastwood’s “Sully,” Tom Hanks plays Chesley Sullenberger, the pilot who in 2009 saved US Airways Flight 1549 with an emergency landing in the Hudson River.
在克林特·伊斯特伍德(Clint Eastwood)的《萨利机长》中，汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)饰演2009年将美国航空公司1549号班机紧急迫降在哈德逊河中，拯救了机上乘客生命的切斯利·萨利伯格(Chesley Sullenberger)机长。
That is not an inherently political story. But it is not hard to imagine political operatives, in the heat of a presidential campaign, trying to appropriate it.
这并不是一个直接和政治有关的故事。但在总统选举宣传正热期间，不难想象政界人士会表示对这部影片的欣赏。
On the surface, at least, Mr. Sullenberger’s stalwart, old-fashioned competence and grit seem to align with those who, like Mr. Trump, talk of “making America great again.” Indeed, in 2009, the Republican party tried to recruit Mr. Sullenberger as a candidate for a congressional seat in California, but he declined.
至少在表面上，萨利伯格那种坚定可靠，老派风度的能力和勇气可以和特朗普那些“让美国重新伟大起来”之类讲话联系上。事实上，2009年，共和党就试着让萨利伯格参选加利福尼亚州参议员，但他拒绝了。
Recall, too, that Mr. Eastwood spoke (to that empty chair) at the Republican convention in 2012, and delivered one of 2014’s surprise hits with the overtly patriotic “American Sniper.”
想想起伊斯特伍德在2012年共和党大会上的讲话（对着那把空椅子），还有2014年爱国的《美国狙击手》(American Sniper)意外走红后他的讲话。
“Sully” will most likely not do much for any candidate arriving on the left. But, given Mr. Eastwood’ s strong record, it could land Warner in the next awards race.
《萨利机长》很可能对于左翼候选人来说没什么帮助。但是，鉴于伊斯特伍德的强势记录，它可能会为华纳赢下大奖。_________
“Snowden”
《斯诺登》(Snowden)
Release: Sept. 16 
上映日期：9月16日
Studio: Open Road Films
发行公司：Open Road Films
Oliver Stone’s “Snowden,” by contrast, will most likely outflank the mainstream presidential candidates on both sides, left and right.
奥利弗·斯通(Oliver Stone)的《斯诺登》恰恰相反，可能会从左右两方打击那些主流总统候选人们。
Donald Trump has called on Apple to help law-enforcement authorities by unlocking its iPhones in a terror investigation, so a sympathetic cinematic look at Edward Snowden’s assault on government cyberintrusion won’t help him.
唐纳德·特朗普呼吁苹果公司在一项恐怖危机调查中帮助执法部门解锁iPhone手机，所以如果人们对爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)攻击政府的网络入侵行为普遍感到同情，对特朗普来说没什么帮助。
But Mrs. Clinton, defending against those who say she violated cybersecurity rules while secretary of state, is in no position to buck Mr. Obama, who wants Mr. Snowden, played here by Joseph Gordon-Levitt, to return from Russian exile and stand trial for theft of secrets.
但是克林顿夫人要应付那些她担任国务卿期间曾经违反网络安全规定的指责，她也没有立场抵制奥巴马要求斯诺登（片中由约瑟夫·高等-莱维[Joseph Gordon-Levitt]饰演）结束俄国逃亡，回国为盗窃国家机密接受审判。
One thing seems certain: Mr. Stone, who has become a fierce critic of Republicans, Democrats and general overreach by the federal government, will use “Snowden” and its promotional track to force candidates into a confrontation with his own considerable libertarian streak.
有一件事是肯定的，斯通曾激烈批评共和党、民主党与政府越权行事，他会利用《斯诺登》以及它的宣传片来逼迫候选人们直面他的自由主义立场。_________
“The Birth of a Nation”
《一个国家的诞生》(The Birth of a Nation)
Release: Oct. 9 
上映日期：10月9日
Studio: Fox Searchlight Pictures
发行公司：Fox Searchlight Pictures
Politically speaking, this is the big one: a brutal, anger-inducing drama about the Nat Turner slave rebellion.
从政治角度来说，这是最重要的一部片子了：一部关于纳特·特纳(Nat Turner)的奴隶反抗运动的情节剧，非常激烈，能激发观众的愤怒。
Written and directed by Nate Parker, who also stars, “The Birth of a Nation” played at Sundance and was immediately acquired by Fox Searchlight, for distribution in the heat of not just the presidential campaign but the coming Oscar season.
影片由内特·帕克(Nate Parker)编剧、执导并主演，曾在圣诞斯电影节上放映，马上被Fox Searchlight公司收购，这不仅仅是为了总统大选，也是为了奥斯卡。
In Hollywood, the whispers say that Mr. Parker’s film — given the critical acclaim it has already received, and the backlash against this year’s nearly all-white Oscars — is sure to figure among the next wave of best picture nominees.
在好莱坞，有议论说，由于今年对白人包揽奥斯卡现象的反弹，帕克这备受评论界好评的电影肯定会获得明年奥斯卡奖的最佳影片提名。
On the political circuit, it will become as unavoidable as were the torture debates around “Zero Dark Thirty” or the good governance talk that accompanied “Lincoln,” as candidates field questions about race relations in America.
在政界，正如《猎杀本·拉登》(Zero Dark Thirty)引发了对刑讯逼供的讨论，《林肯》(Lincoln)引发了对何为好政府的讨论，不可避免地，这部影片也会引发候选人们对美国种族问题做出现场回答。_________
... Then There’s Election Day.
……然后就是选举日了。
Nov. 8 will also bring final box-office results for a Nov. 4 weekend whose big openers promise to be decidedly less political: “Bastards,” from Warner Brothers; “Trolls,” from DreamWorks Animation and Fox; and “Doctor Strange,” from Walt Disney.
11月8日是大选之日，同样，11月4日这个周末也有不少没什么政治色彩的大片上映，到时它们的票房也该出来了，比如华纳兄弟的《混蛋》(Bastards)、梦工厂动画的《丑娃》(Trolls)和沃尔特·迪斯尼的《奇异博士》(Doctor Strange)。