The election campaign has plot elements worthy of a Le Carré novel: double-crosses and allegations of stolen secret documents and self-dealing.
本次选举活动的情节元素够写一本勒卡雷(Le Carré)式的小说了，其中包含背叛以及盗窃机密文件和内部交易的指称。
At stake is not the leadership of some powerful country but the presidency of a fairly obscure organization that presides over a small corner of the gaming world, the World Chess Federation. The body oversees international chess championships and controls tournaments and sponsorship deals worth millions of dollars and championships that are the grail of nationalistic aspirations.
与此利害相关的不是某强国的领袖，而是一个鲜为人知的组织的主席，该组织掌管着游戏世界的一个小角落，那就是世界国际象棋联合会(World Chess Federation)。这个组织监管着国际象棋锦标赛，控制着价值数百万美元的比赛和赞助交易，以及被视为民族主义抱负之至高境界的冠军头衔。
The principal characters also seem drawn from fiction. There is a former world chess champion, now a Russian opposition leader; a former president of an obscure Russian republic who believes that he was abducted by extraterrestrials in yellow suits who invented the game of chess; and an ex-fashion photographer turned chess official who would like the first two candidates to be disqualified so that he can take over the federation.
主角们似乎也是从小说中拉出来的人物。其中一人是前世界象棋冠军、现任俄罗斯反对党领导人；还有一人是俄联邦某籍籍无名的加盟共和国的前总统，他认定自己被某些发明了国际象棋的外星生物给绑架了，这些外星人穿着黄色套装；还有一位是由前时尚摄影师变身国际象棋官员的候选人，此人希望前两位候选人都被取消资格，这样他就能接掌联合会了。
The latest intrigue revolves around corruption allegations by the two candidates for the federation’s presidency, Garry Kasparov, the former champion and Russian opposition figure, and Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, the incumbent president and self-described space-alien abductee.
最近的阴谋核心是角逐联合会主席职位的两名候选人受到腐败指控，其中的一人是前国际象棋冠军、现任俄罗斯反对派人物加里·卡斯帕罗夫(Garry Kasparov)，另一人是联合会现任主席、自称曾被外星人掳走过的基尔桑·伊柳姆日诺夫(Kirsan Ilyumzhinov)。
Such charges would normally hardly raise an eyebrow in the world of organized chess, which has been rife with rumors of corruption for decades. What has rocked even the jaded chess world this time are signed contracts posted online that each candidate contends proves dirty dealing by the other. And each candidate, while not denying his signature on the contract in question, claims his contract has been maliciously misinterpreted.
在国际象棋组织的世界里，这类指控通常不会引起什么反响，因为过去几十年来像这样的腐败传闻已经传出太多。之所以这一次连早已厌倦不已的国际象棋世界都受到震动，是因为每个候选人为了证明对方有肮脏勾当，把签过字的合同贴到了网上。虽然没有一名候选人否认被质疑的合约上署有他们的大名，然而他们均声称，自己手里的合约遭到了恶意误读。
Even the Icelandic grandmaster Fridrik Olafsson, an éminence grise of the chess world and former federation president, could only shake his head.
就连国际象棋界的实权人物、联合会前主席冰岛大师弗里德里克·奥拉夫松(Fridrik Olafsson)都只能摇头。
“Things are not as they should be,” he said. “There are too many problems that have nothing to do with chess.”
他说，“事情的发展脱离了正轨。有太多和国际象棋无关的问题。”
Mr. Kasparov has long been a critic of Mr. Ilyumzhinov, saying that his odd beliefs and his friendships with controversial world leaders — including Saddam Hussein, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and President Bashar al-Assad — have hurt the credibility of the federation and scared away would-be sponsors. He, and others in the chess world, have long accused Mr. Ilyumzhinov of corruption.
长期以来，卡斯帕罗夫一直在批评伊柳姆日诺夫，说他的古怪想法、以及他与争议性的国家领导人的交情有损联合会的清誉，吓跑了未来赞助商，这些领导人之中就有萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)、穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)和巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统。长期以来，他和国际象棋界的其他人士一直指责伊柳姆日诺夫有贪腐行为。
But there was never anything that resembled proof until two weeks ago, when a memo was leaked to The Sunday Times of London and various chess news websites. In the memo, Mr. Ilyumzhinov and Andrew Paulson, the ex-fashion photographer, agreed to divvy up any profits of a new company created to stage the world’s premier chess events.
不过，此前一直没有出现任何类似证据的东西，直到两周以前，伦敦《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)和许多国际象棋新闻网站收到了一份泄露的备忘录，情况才发生了改变。在备忘录中，伊柳姆日诺夫和前时尚摄影师安德鲁·鲍尔森(Andrew Paulson)一致同意，他们将均分一家新创立的公司举办的任何国际顶级赛事的红利。
The chess federation, controlled by Mr. Ilyumzhinov, had awarded the company a no-bid contract in 2012 for the rights to organize, find sponsors and market the world chess championship, the World Cup and the Grand Prix for 11 years. The rights are potentially worth millions of dollars.
2012年，伊柳姆日诺夫控制的联合会把一份未经招标的合约交给了这家新创立的公司，授权它在接下来的11年里组织和推广国际象棋锦标赛——国际象棋世界杯赛(World Cup)和国际象棋大奖赛(Grand Prix)，并寻找赞助商。这些授权的潜在价值在数百万美元以上。
According to the memo, signed by both men, Mr. Paulson would manage the company, called Agon, and own 49 percent and Mr. Ilyumzhinov would own 51 percent. Mr. Ilyumzhinov would also provide start-up capital of up to $2 million and be repaid, with interest, out of any profits.
根据二人签署的备忘录，鲍尔森将管理这家名为Agon的公司，并拥有49%的股权，伊柳姆日诺夫将拥有51%的股权。伊柳姆日诺夫还将给该公司提供高达200万美元（约合1245万元人民币）的启动资金，这笔钱连本带利将通过公司的盈利来偿还。
Mr. Ilyumzhinov and Mr. Paulson acknowledge the contract published online is real, but say it never took effect and that Mr. Ilyumzhinov never became an owner.
伊柳姆日诺夫和鲍尔森承认网上公布的合约是真的，不过他们表示，合约从未生效，伊柳姆日诺夫并未成为公司的所有人。
Mr. Ilyumzhinov, referring to the federation by its French acronym, FIDE, added in an email: “All that I sign that relates to FIDE, has to go through the board. FIDE is more than a president, it’s a huge organization. I did not and will not sign anything that is not supported and approved by FIDE.”
伊柳姆日诺夫还在一封电子邮件中用联合会的法语简称FIDE表示：“我签署的所有和FIDE有关的文件，都必须经过董事会的批准。FIDE不是主席一个人说了算，它是一个庞大的组织。我没有、也不会签署未得到FIDE支持和批准的文件。”
But this contract had not been approved by the board. The federation’s deputy president, Georgios Makropoulos, said in a statement that the deal was “just one of many proposals” and that it had been rejected. He dismissed the contract as a red herring because “it never took effect,” adding, in case anyone was wondering, “I have never received even 1 cent from Agon.”
然而，这份合约并未得到董事会的批准。联合会副主席乔治斯·马克罗普洛斯(Georgios Makropoulos)在一则声明中说，该合约“只是众多方案中的一份”，且已被否决。他不屑地称这份合同是混淆视听的东西，因为“它从未生效”，他还说，假如有人怀疑的话，“我从未从Agon收过哪怕一分钱。”
Mr. Paulson said he wanted Mr. Ilyumzhinov to own a stake in the company to assure that the federation would try to work with Agon. “One man’s conflict of interest is another man’s alignment of interest,” he wrote in an email. “If I was going to put a lot of my money into such a speculative venture I wanted to be reassured I wasn’t going to get sheared.”
鲍尔森说，他想让伊柳姆日诺夫拥有公司的股份，以确保联合会能尝试和Agon合作。他在一封电子邮件中写道，“和一个人的利益冲突的东西，和另一个人的利益就是相符的了。如果要我把自己手里的大量钱财投入到这么祸福难料的生意上，我想确保自己不会血本无归。”
He charged that the contract had been stolen off his computer by a former employee who was hired away by the Kasparov campaign.
他指控说，是卡斯帕罗夫选举阵营中的一名前雇员从他电脑里窃取了合约。
In the end, he said, he remained the company’s sole owner, a fact confirmed by corporate records on the Isle of Jersey, where Agon was incorporated in 2012.
最后他说，他依然是该公司唯一的所有人，Agon于2012年在泽西岛成立，泽西岛的公司备案记录确认了这一事实。
Mr. Paulson said that he was never in cahoots with Mr. Ilyumzhinov to rob FIDE. By way of proving his point, he said that he was still thinking of running for president of the federation as he thinks Mr. Ilyumzhinov should be replaced, just not by Mr. Kasparov. “I would say that this screams that I am independent,” he wrote in an email. 
鲍尔森说，他从未和伊柳姆日诺夫串通一气占联合会的便宜。为了证明自己的说法，他说他依然在考虑角逐联合会主席一职，因为他认为伊柳姆日诺夫应该被取而代之，只不过取代他的人不应是卡斯帕罗夫。他在电子邮件里说，“我想说，这是在大声宣告我是独立的。”
Nonetheless, Mr. Kasparov calls the deal “an abuse of power” and a conflict of interest. “Those signatures speak more effectively than their thousands of words of denials and attacks,” he said in a statement.
尽管如此，卡斯帕罗夫依然把这桩交易称为“滥权”和一次利益冲突。他在一则声明中说，“那些签名的效力比他们长篇大论的否认和攻击要更强。”
If the accusation of a purloined contract sounds familiar to denizens of the chess world, it is because Mr. Kasparov and his campaign leveled the same accusation about another secret contract disclosed three weeks ago.
如果说对被盗合约的指控，听上去让国际象棋界的人士倍感熟悉，那是因为三周前披露的另一份机密合约对卡斯帕罗夫及其选举阵营构成了类似的指控。
A leaked draft of that contract, between Mr. Kasparov and Ignatius Leong, the general secretary of the federation, reported by The New York Times, shows what appears to be a vote-buying scheme for the federation’s presidential election this August. The final contract eliminated a direct payment of $500,000 to Mr. Leong, but retained a donation of up to $1 million from a foundation controlled by Mr. Kasparov to a foundation owned by Mr. Leong.
据《纽约时报》报道，一份泄露的合约草稿显示，今年8月举行的联合会主席选举似乎存在贿选阴谋，合约的一方是卡斯帕罗夫，另一方是联合会秘书长梁志荣(Ignatius Leong)。合约的最终版本删除了卡斯帕罗夫直接付给梁志荣50万美元酬金的条款，不过保留了由卡斯帕罗夫控制的一个基金会给梁志荣下属的一个基金会提供高达100万美元捐款的条款。
The full payment was contingent on Mr. Kasparov’s election, with Mr. Leong, who is from Singapore, promising to deliver a minimum of 11 votes from his region, “with the effort to deliver 15 votes.”
最终酬劳依卡斯帕罗夫的选举结果而定，来自新加坡的梁志荣承诺，卡斯帕罗夫至少能从自己的选区获得11票，并会“尽力帮他拿到15票”。
With both candidates this year under clouds of corruption allegations, Mr. Olafsson said that the federation stood to be the election’s biggest loser.
鉴于今年的两名候选人都被腐败疑云所笼罩，奥拉夫松表示，联合会将成为此次选举最大的输家。