MOSCOW — I had been feeling a little down over the weekend in Budapest, where I spent over half of my life, for no obvious reason. But as the airplane touched down in Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport, I was overwhelmed almost at the same instant by feelings of joy, optimism and excitement about coming back home.
莫斯科——周末待在布达佩斯的时候，我不知道为什么感觉有点沮丧，我曾在这里度过了大半辈子。但当飞机降落在莫斯科谢列梅捷沃机场(Sheremetyevo Airport)，那一刻，我感到快乐、乐观，并被回家的激动情绪所包围。
This is considering that I am not a Muscovite by birth and never even lived a day in this city until 10 months ago.
可我并不是土生土长的莫斯科人，直到10个月前，我甚至没在这里住过一天。
It is a city where the climate is too grim, the prices are too high and the people are too rude, but also a city with which I am intimately bound by a common language, culture and history.
这里的天气非常糟，物价很高，人很粗鲁，但共同的语言、文化及历史将我与这个城市紧密地联系在一起。
It occurred to me all of a sudden that I had been living abroad for over 20 years of my life — for most of my life, really.
我突然意识到，自己有20多年的时间——生命中的大部分时光——生活在国外，这是真的。
And now it was apparent that this had been a source of melancholy all along — somewhere on the sidelines, in the background, but constant.
很明显，这一直是一个让我感到忧郁的原因，有时候不是很明显，比较隐蔽，但这种情绪一直存在。
I had been displaced for most of my life, much as the pre-’48 Jew or the post-’48 Palestinian — or the young émigré woman in Paris of the Oleg Mityaev song: “Although a former Russian, a Russian she is. She is the same Muscovite she always was.”
我人生中的大部分时间都被迫离开了祖国，很像1948年前的犹太人，或1948年后的巴勒斯坦人，抑或是奥列格·米佳夫(Oleg Mityaev)的歌中所唱的那个待在巴黎的年轻女性移民：“虽然远离祖国，她是一个地地道道的俄罗斯人。她仍然是那个莫斯科人，从未改变。”
I speak three foreign languages and have friends and acquaintances from close to 100 countries, many of which I have visited. My education is exclusively American. And ethnically I am only half Russian. Why, then, is this sense of identity, engrained in civic nationalism, so deep and defining?
我会说三门外语，有来自近100个国家的朋友和熟人，我拜访过其中许多国家。我接受的完全是美式教育。从种族来看，我只算是半个俄罗斯人。那为什么这种根植于公民民族主义的认同感会如此强烈、明确呢？
Is it because I can enjoy Bulgakov or Griboyedov at any one of a dozen theaters, each of them globally competitive? Because I can find the prose and poetry of Dmitry Bykov, a potential Nobel Prize laureate, at any bookstore in town? Or because I can start a conversation with a cab driver (in fact rarely a Russian) in my own language that will usually end in a revelation of some sort?
难道是因为我喜欢在这里的十几家国际水平的剧院里观看布尔加科夫(Bulgakov)、格里博耶多夫(Griboyedov)的戏剧吗？是因为我能在城中任何一个书店里找到潜在的诺贝尔奖得主——德米特里·贝科夫(Dmitry Bykov)的散文与诗歌吗？还是因为我能用自己的语言与出租车司机（实际上，很少是俄罗斯人）攀谈，并且通常都能获得某种启示吗？
Or take my compatriots. They are cold and distant at first, but sympathetic, engaging and loyal within 30 minutes of making their acquaintance. In response to their default state of aggression, I have discovered the effective ice-breaker of politeness.
或者以我的同胞为例。他们起初并不热情，非常冷淡，但与他们相识不到30分钟，就会发现他们颇具同情心、有意思、忠诚。在面对他们一开始的不友好状态时，我发现礼貌是一个有效的破冰工具。
There is so much to be grateful for here. I live in a beautiful area of Moscow, in the triangle between Gorky Park, Christ the Savior Cathedral and Moscow State University. I am able to and choose to follow the varied political, social and cultural life that abounds all around me. I can eat Borodinsky rye bread, Belarussian bacon and Georgian Suluguni cheese.
这里有很多值得我珍惜的事情。我在莫斯科所居住的区域非常漂亮，处于高尔基公园(Gorky Park)、救世主大教堂(Cathedral of Christ the Savior)及莫斯科国立大学(Moscow State University)中间的三角地带。我能够且选择参与身边的各种政治、社会及文化生活。我能吃到俄罗斯的博罗金斯基黑面包、白俄罗斯培根及格鲁吉亚的苏鲁谷尼奶酪。
I have a few close friends living in this city whom I don’t see as often as I should, but the mere possibility of being able to meet them is soothing. And, perhaps most importantly, my lovely girlfriend is at my side. Like me, she is a Siberian — a very special breed.
我有几个居住在莫斯科的密友，我本应该经常看望他们，但我没有。但仅仅是与他们见面的可能性就会使人感到安慰。或许最重要的是，我可爱的女朋友就在我身边。她跟我一样，是西伯利亚人——一个特殊的族群。
All of the above are valid reasons for liking the Moscow life. But at the same time Russia does not come to mind as a particularly livable country.
以上就是我喜欢在莫斯科生活的确凿理由。但与此同时，在人们的认知里，俄罗斯不是一个特别适宜居住的国家。
Google co-founder Sergey Brin called Russia “Nigeria with snow.” My mother calls it “an inherently gangster country,” meaning one of all-permeating nepotism, corruption and violence.
谷歌(Google)的联合创始人谢尔盖·布林(Sergey Brin)称俄罗斯是“下雪的尼日利亚”。我母亲称俄罗斯“骨子里就是一个黑帮国家”，指的是这里随处可见的裙带关系、腐败和暴力行为。
In our 1,150-year history, our only experiment with real democracy lasted a mere five years (1991-1996).
在我们1150年的历史中，我们唯一的、真正的民主试验只持续了5年（1991年至1996年）。
Currently the country is deeply divided politically, with tens of thousands of protesters regularly filling the center of Moscow.
目前，俄罗斯深陷政治分裂之中，数以万计的抗议者常在莫斯科市中心举行抗议活动。
Relations with the United States, another country close to my heart, are at an all-time low because of systemic mutual irritants such as the adoption ban, the “foreign agent” law and the Snowden affair.
美国也是我很关心的国家，但收养禁令、“外国代理人”法，以及斯诺登(Snowden)事件等令两国烦恼的体制问题致使美俄关系降至历史最低点。
Crime, pollution and inconvenience are everywhere. Real estate prices are more than double those of Berlin. One is not safe buying groceries without checking the expiration dates.
犯罪、污染及不便之处无处不在。房价是柏林的两倍多。而不检查保质期就购买食物是不安全的。
Still, the positives of living in Moscow outweigh the negatives by a long shot. It is easily one of the most dynamic cities in the world, comparable perhaps only to London, New York and Tokyo. But most fundamentally, it is the capital of my home country. Flawed and imperfect it may be, but it is mine.
但无论如何，在莫斯科居住的好处多于坏处。莫斯科无疑是世界上最具活力的城市之一，或许可与伦敦、纽约和东京相媲美。但最根本的是，这里是我的祖国的首都。它或许存在缺陷，并不完美，但这是我的故乡。