Two people were stabbed to death on Friday in the Forbidden City, a vast complex in Beijing of vermilion-painted imperial halls and stone courtyards that is now one of the capital’s biggest tourist attractions.
有两人周五在故宫被刀刺死，故宫是北京最大的旅游景点之一，里面有红墙围绕的皇家宫殿和石头筑成的院落。
The attack occurred at a staff cafeteria in the Palace Museum, as the complex is officially known, said the state-run Xinhua news agency. In a statement posted online, the Public Security Bureau said the assailant, a 49-year-old employee surnamed Zheng, stabbed two colleagues, one of whom died instantly. The attacker was taken into custody after attempting to commit suicide, Chinese media reported. A photo of the crime scene, posted on the Sina Weibo microblog by the Beijing News, showed blood splattered on the floor beneath tables.
国家媒体新华社消息称，这起袭击事件发生在故宫博物院的一个员工餐厅内。公安局在网上发布的一则声明中说，行刺者姓郑，今年49岁，他持刀刺向两名同事，其中一人当场死亡。中国媒体消息称，行凶者试图自杀未遂，被拘留。《新京报》发布在新浪微博上的犯罪现场照片显示，鲜血溅在了桌子下的地面上。
Once the sumptuous dwelling of 24 Chinese emperors and their hordes of soldiers, courtiers and concubines, the Forbidden City draws tourists from across China and the globe. Chinese media reported that the stabbings occurred in an area closed to tourists, though fights and thefts in recent years have brought security flaws to light.
故宫曾是24位中国皇帝以及他们成群的警卫、侍臣和妻妾的奢华住所，这里吸引了来自中国和世界各地的很多游客。虽然中国媒体报道称，刺杀发生在游客止步的地方，但最近几年的打架和盗窃事件已经暴露出故宫里的安全问题。
In September, footage of a brawl outside the Hall of Supreme Harmony, which was published online, left many wondering at the complete absence of security guards. In an interview with the state-run China Central Television, the curator of the Palace Museum, Shan Jixiang, complained that there were too few guards on hand. “We’re really shorthanded,” he said. “Just imagine, 53 security guards scattered in an area of more than one square kilometer.”
9月份，有人将故宫太和殿门外发生的一起打架录像传到网上，很多人对那里完全没有保安人员表示不解。故宫博物院院长单霁翔在接受国家媒体中央电视台采访时称保安太少。他说，“53名保安，像撒芝麻盐一样，远远不能保障故宫博物院1.06平方公里范围内的观众安全。”
People are not the only ones left unprotected. In 2011, a farmer named Shi Bokui broke into the Hall of Abstinence and stole nine artifacts before being caught hours later at an Internet cafe. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison and fined $2,100. At the time of his conviction in 2012, Xinhua reported that officials were upgrading the museum’s security with advanced equipment and technology.
缺少保护的并非只是人。2011年，一个叫石柏魁的农民闯入斋宫盗走9件展品，数小时后他在一家网吧被抓获。他被判处13年监禁，并处罚金1.3万元。在2012年对他宣判时，新华社曾报道，官方正用先进的设施和技术提升故宫博物院的安全系统。