BEIJING — More than 140 years ago, the United States government designated Yellowstone as the nation’s first national park — an untouched Western landscape of geysers, grizzly bears and soaring peaks. The national parks program eventually expanded to include more than 450 sites and has become one of the country’s greatest tourist draws.
北京——140多年前，美国联邦政府将黄石(Yellowstone)定为第一座国家公园。这片位于美国西部的未受破坏的景区拥有众多间歇喷泉、灰熊和高耸的山峰。国家公园项目的规模最终扩展至450多处地方，成为了美国最具吸引力的旅游选择之一。
Now China is trying to do with some of its natural spaces what the United States did during its own industrial boom. On Monday, Chinese officials and the Paulson Institute, a research center based in Chicago, announced a plan to undertake trial national park projects in nine provinces over the next three years.
如今，中国正试图模仿美国在工业蓬勃发展时期的做法，管理自身的一些自然空间。周一，中国官员和总部位于芝加哥的研究中心保尔森基金会(Paulson Institute)联合宣布了一项计划，未来三年准备在中国九个省份开展国家公园试点项目。
“National parks are one of the very best ideas America has exported to the world,” Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former United States Treasury secretary and Goldman Sachs chief executive, said in an email. “A Chinese national park system that protects and manages the country’s ecologically rich, beautiful areas can be a source of great national pride and environmental education.”
“国家公园是美国向世界输出的最棒的理念之一，”曾任美国财政部长、高盛(Goldman Sachs)首席执行官的小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)通过邮件接受采访时表示。“一个保护和管理生态多样、美丽迷人的中国自然风貌的国家公园制度，能够带来极大的民族自豪感和有力的环境教育。”
“The trick in China will be how to let the public share its natural treasures, while at the same time protecting them,” said Mr. Paulson, who founded the Paulson Institute in 2011. “Conservation begins with a love of nature. You need to value something before you want to save it.”
“在中国开展项目的难点在于如何让公众分享自然宝藏的同时，对其予以保护，”保尔森说。“环境保护始于对大自然的热爱。你得珍视某样东西才会想要去保护它。”保尔森基金会由他本人于2011年创立。
In some spots in China where nature still thrives, like the popular Huanglong and Jiuzhaigou alpine parks in Sichuan Province, conservation efforts have become secondary to moneymaking ventures by tourism concession companies. Such areas are also often threatened by industrial pollution and construction.
在中国的一些自然资源丰富的地区，比如广受欢迎的四川高海拔景区黄龙和九寨沟，自然保护要让位于旅游特许公司的赚钱项目。此类地区还经常受到工业污染及建设的威胁。
But in December 2013, according to state news reports, Xi Jinping, the country’s president and head of the Communist Party, told a meeting of senior officials charged with making economic policy that China should move forward with a true national park system.
不过，据官方新闻媒体报道，在2013年12月，中国国家主席、中共中央总书记习近平与负责制定经济政策的高层官员开会时表示，中国应该推动建立真正的国家公园制度。
The Paulson Institute, where research on China’s environmental problems has been a major focus, began talking last fall to the National Development and Reform Commission, the government agency that helps oversee economic planning, about how to help out.
中国的环境问题是保尔森基金会的一个研究重点。从去年秋季开始，该机构开始与负责中国经济规划的国家发展和改革委员会讨论如何帮助中国建立国家公园制度。
“This was really big news,” Rose Niu, the chief conservation officer at the Paulson Institute, said of Mr. Xi’s remarks. “No. 1, the national park system is a new concept to China. No. 2, not so many environmental conservation issues have been highlighted on such a high-profile political level.”
“这是真正的大新闻，”保尔森基金会自然保护项目总监牛红卫(Rose Niu)提到习近平的言论时说。“第一，国家公园制度对于中国来说是一个新概念。第二，受到政治高层关注的环保问题并不多。”
Ms. Niu, who moved to Washington from China in 2008 and was in Beijing this week, said the Paulson Institute would provide “technical support” to the Chinese agency as officials explore ways to manage and protect the trial parks. That support includes promoting exchanges between Chinese officials and experts in the United States, developing guidelines for managing the pilot parks, and doing case studies of national park areas in seven countries: Brazil, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, Thailand and the United States.
2008年，牛红卫从中国移居华盛顿。她本周身在北京，表示在中国官员对管理和保护这些试点公园的方式进行探索时，保尔森基金会将为发改委提供“技术支持”。这种支持包括推动中国官员和美国专家的交流、提出管理试点公园的指导方针，以及对七个国家——巴西、德国、日本、新西兰、南非、泰国和美国——的国家公园进行案例研究。
Mr. Paulson has committed the institute’s help to planning for a trial park in the Wuyishan area of Fujian Province, a mountainous coastal region where Mr. Xi spent many years as an official. On the Chinese side, scholars from Tsinghua University in Beijing will help draft guidelines for Wuyishan and the other parks. Ms. Niu and others are scheduled to fly to Fujian on Thursday and travel to Wuyishan for meetings.
保尔森承诺旗下的基金会将为福建省武夷山地区的一座试点公园的规划工作提供帮助。福建位于多山的沿海地区，是习近平曾为官多年的地方。至于中国这一方，来自北京清华大学的学者将参与起草武夷山等试点公园的指导意见。按照计划，牛红卫等人将于周四飞往福建，然后前往武夷山参加会议。
Accompanying the group will be Doug Morris, who worked for 40 years with the United States National Park Service, including as a superintendent. Mr. Morris is a member of Global Parks, a nonprofit group started in 2008 by retired National Park Service managers to advise foreign governments on creating national parks.
道格·莫里斯(Doug Morris)也会一同前往。他在美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)工作了40年，期间还曾担任公园的负责人。莫里斯如今是非营利机构全球公园(Global Parks)的成员。2008年，国家公园管理局的退休管理人员成立了这一组织，就创立国家公园为外国政府提供建议。
Some Chinese officials at the provincial and regional levels have experimented with park conservation. Ms. Niu, who is from Yunnan Province, played a critical role in helping establish a conservation area there called Pudacuo. The protected area covers about 115 square miles where the parallel flows of the Yangtze, the Mekong and the Salween have carved deep valleys. Ms. Niu worked on that project after she became China country director of the Nature Conservancy, an American environmental group, in 1997. Mr. Paulson is a longtime member of that group.
中国的一些省级和地方官员在对公园保护工作进行尝试。来自云南省的牛红卫，在协助建立当地的普达措保护区的过程中发挥了重要作用。这片保护区的面积约为300平方公里，在这里，并流的长江、澜沧江和怒江侵蚀出了深深的峡谷。在1997年成为大自然保护协会(Nature Conservancy)的中国区负责人后，牛红卫开始参与这个项目。大自然保护协会是美国的一家环保组织，而保尔森是它的长期会员。
“China wants to develop a national park system in line with international practices and standards, but also fitting into a Chinese context,” Ms. Niu said in Beijing. “As someone working on conservation issues for 20 years, I believe this is significant progress that the Chinese government is making. The Chinese government knows the Chinese public needs more and more green space and clean air.”
“中国希望建立的国家公园制度要符合国际原则和标准，但同时又要能融入中国，”牛红卫在北京表示。“作为一个在自然保护议题上工作了20年的人，我认为这是中国政府取得的重大进步。中国政府知道，公众需要越来越多的绿地和干净的空气。”
“The Chinese want beautiful places and beautiful landscapes,” she added. “They want to enjoy the natural resources. These kinds of resources are less and less in China. China not only needs to fight pollution of air, water and soil, but it also needs to invest in its natural capital.”
“中国人想要美丽的地方和漂亮的风景，”她还说。“他们希望能享受自然资源。这种资源在中国越来越少了。中国不仅要对抗大气、水和土壤污染，还需要对其自然资本进行投资。”