A NEW Ukraine was born a year ago in the pro-European protests that helped to drive President Viktor F. Yanukovych from power. And today, the spirit that inspired hundreds of thousands to gather in the Maidan, Kiev’s Independence Square, is stronger than ever, even as it is under direct military assault from Russian forces supporting separatists in eastern Ukraine.
一年前，一个崭新的乌克兰在亲欧洲的抗议活动中诞生。抗议驱使前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)下台。而今天，尽管俄罗斯军队仍在支持乌克兰东部的分裂势力直接开展军事袭击，但是那种驱使数以十万计的民众聚集在基辅独立广场上的信念，却比以往任何时候都更加强烈。
The new Ukraine seeks to become the opposite of the old Ukraine, which was demoralized and riddled with corruption. The transformation has been a rare experiment in participatory democracy; a noble adventure of a people who have rallied to open their nation to modernity, democracy and Europe. And this is just the beginning.
旧乌克兰低落消沉、腐败丛生，而新乌克兰谋求成为它的对立面。这种转型是一场参与式民主的罕见实验，是一个民族团结起来打开国门，接纳现代性、追求民主、转向欧洲的宏伟冒险。而这才刚刚开始。
This experiment is remarkable for finding expression not only in defending Ukraine’s territorial integrity from the separatists, but also in constructive work. Maidan’s supporters have moved from opposition to nation building.
这场实验之所以引人注目，不仅体现在面对分裂分子，努力捍卫乌克兰的领土完整，而且也体现在建设性的工作上。广场抗议的支持者，已经从反对派变成了国家的建设者。
Many of those in government and Parliament are volunteers who have given up well-paying jobs to serve their country. Natalie Jaresko, a former investment banker, now works for a few hundred dollars a month as the new finance minister. Volunteers are helping Ukraine’s one million internally displaced people as well as working as advisers to ministers and in local government.
很多在政府和议会中供职的人，自愿放弃了高薪工作来为国效力。娜塔莉·杰里斯科(Natalie Jaresko)曾经是投资银行家，现在是新任财政部长，月薪只有几百美元。志愿者也在为乌克兰境内100万流离失所的人提供帮助，并且为各部部长和地方政府担任顾问。
The new Ukraine, however, faces a potent challenge from the old Ukraine. The old Ukraine is solidly entrenched in a state bureaucracy that has worked hand in hand with a business oligarchy. And the reformers are also up against the manifest hostility of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, who wants at all costs to destabilize Ukraine.
但是，新乌克兰面临着来自旧乌克兰的有力挑战。旧乌克兰牢固地盘踞在与商业寡头勾结的国家官僚机构当中。此外，改革派还必须面对俄罗斯总统普京的明显敌意，他愿意不惜一切代价来破坏乌克兰的稳定。
One drawback is that the new Ukraine is a well-kept secret, not just from the rest of the world but also from the Ukrainian public. Radical reforms have been hatched but not yet implemented.
但还有一个不足之处，新乌克兰还是一个严格保守的秘密，不仅世界其他国家不得而知，连乌克兰公众也并不了解。激进的改革已经发芽，但尚未开花结果。
It is instructive to compare Ukraine today with Georgia in 2004. When he became president that year, Mikheil Saakashvili immediately replaced the hated traffic police and removed the roadblocks used to extort bribes from drivers. The public recognized straight away that things had changed for the better.
将如今的乌克兰与2004年的格鲁吉亚进行比较，就能得到一些启发。在那年当选总统后，米哈伊尔·萨卡什维利(Mikheil Saakashvili)立刻换掉了受人痛恨的交警，移除了用来向司机索要贿赂的路障。于是公众很快意识到，事情已经向好的方向转变了。
Unfortunately, Ukraine has not yet found a similar demonstration project. Kiev’s police force is to be restructured, but if you need a driver’s license, you must still pay the same bribe as before.
遗憾的是，乌克兰目前还没有找到一个类似的示范性项目。基辅的警察机构将受到重组，但如果你想要申请驾照，还必须像以前一样行贿。
Mr. Saakashvili was a revolutionary leader who first stamped out corruption but eventually turned it into a state monopoly. By contrast, Ukraine is a participatory democracy that does not rely on a single leader but on checks and balances. Democracies move slowly, but that may prove an advantage in the long run.
萨卡什维利是一位具有革命精神的领袖，他最初打击了腐败，但最终却将它转变成了政府的垄断行为。相比之下，乌克兰实行参与式民主，它依靠的不是某一位领导人，而是权力的制衡。民主国家行动缓慢，但在长期却具有优势。
The big question is, will there be a long run? Although Russia is in a deepening financial crisis, Mr. Putin appears to have decided that he can destroy the new Ukraine before it can fully establish itself and before an economic downturn destroys his own popularity.
最大的问题是，乌克兰会有长期的未来吗？尽管俄罗斯的金融危机日益加深，但是普京似乎已经认定，自己可以在乌克兰完全站稳脚跟之前，在经济下滑拖垮自己的支持率之前，搞垮新乌克兰。
The Russian president is stepping up the military and financial pressure on Ukraine. Over the weekend, the city of Mariupol came under attack from forces that NATO said were backed by Russian troops, undermining the pretense that the separatists are acting on their own.
这位俄罗斯总统正在加大对乌克兰的军事和财政压力。上周末，马留波尔遭到了多股势力的袭击，北约(NATO)称，这些势力受到了俄罗斯军队的支持，这削弱了有关分裂势力是独自行动的说法。
Ukraine will defend itself militarily, but it urgently needs financial assistance. The immediate need is for $15 billion. But to ensure Ukraine’s survival and encourage private investment, Western powers need to make a political commitment to provide additional sums, depending on the extent of the Russian assault and the success of Ukraine’s reforms.
乌克兰将在军事上捍卫自身的安全，但它也亟需经济上的援助。它迫在眉睫的需求为150亿美元（约合940亿元人民币）。但为了确保乌克兰能够存活下来并鼓励私人投资，西方大国需要做出提供额外资金的政治承诺，而具体的数额取决于俄罗斯实施打击的力度，以及乌克兰的改革取得多大成效。
The reformers, who want to avoid the leakages that were characteristic of the old Ukraine, have expressed their wish to be held accountable for all expenditures. They are passing extensive legislation but also want the International Monetary Fund to go on exercising oversight.
改革派表达了希望为所有支出负责的愿望。他们想要避免旧乌克兰经常出现的那些资金流失的弊病。他们正在大规模地通过法案，但同时也邀请国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)继续实施监管。
Unfortunately, just as democracies are slow to move, an association of democracies like the European Union is even slower. Mr. Putin is exploiting this.
遗憾的是，就像民主国家的行动会十分缓慢一样，欧盟这样的民主国家联盟更加缓慢。普京正在利用这一点来达到自己的目的。
It is not only the future of Ukraine that’s at stake, but that of the European Union itself. The loss of Ukraine would be an enormous blow; it would empower a Russian alternative to the European Union based on the rule of force rather than the rule of law. But if Europe delivered the financial assistance that Ukraine needs, Mr. Putin would eventually be forced to abandon his aggression. At the moment, he can argue that Russia’s economic troubles are caused by Western hostility, and the Russian public finds his argument convincing.
面临考验的不只是乌克兰的未来，还有欧盟自身的未来。失去乌克兰将是一个重大的打击；它将让一个基于武力而不是法治的俄罗斯的替代方案得逞。但如果欧洲提供了乌克兰需要的经济援助，普京最终将不得不放弃他的侵略行为。目前，他可以声称，俄罗斯的经济困境是由西方的敌对举动造成的，而俄罗斯公众认为他的说法可信。