I’ve been arguing that the big divide in the world these days is between the world of order and a growing world of disorder. If you’re keeping score at home, the world of disorder just added another country: Libya. America quietly folded up its embassy in Libya last week and left, leaving behind a tribal/militia war of all against all. Not good.
我一直声称，现今世界上的巨大鸿沟，存在于有序世界和不断扩张的无序世界之间。如果你在统计的话，你会看到无序世界那边又增加了一个国家：利比亚。上周，美国悄悄撤离了在利比亚的大使馆，让部落和民兵留在那里各自混战。这不是什么好事。
There will be more of this. It’s not easy being a country anymore. There is no more Cold War to prop up, arm and finance frail states. More important, the combined pressures of the market (globalization and the speed with which investment can flow into countries doing the right things and out of those doing bad things), Moore’s Law (the steady rise in computing power that makes every good job today require more education) and Mother Nature (climate change, biodiversity loss, erosion and population growth) have all passed certain tipping points. Together, the market, Mother Nature and Moore’s Law are stressing out developed countries and helping to blow up weak ones.
还会有更多这样的事情发生。维持一个国家不再像以前那样容易。冷战结束了，也就没有人再为弱国提供支撑、帮助和资金。更重要的是，市场（全球化，资金流入行事得当的国家的速度，流出行事不当的国家的速度）、摩尔定律（由于计算能力持续攀升，如今你想找一份好工作，就需要获得过更多的教育），以及大自然（气候变化、生物多样性的丧失、水土流失和人口增长）的压力综合起来，超过了某些临界点。总之，市场、大自然和摩尔定律不仅在给发达国家带去压力，也在推动弱国走向深渊。
For me, the movie line that perfectly captures this moment was uttered by the leader of the Somali pirates who hijacked a cargo ship in “Captain Phillips,” starring Tom Hanks. The pirate nicknames the Boston-bred Phillips “Irish.” In a critical scene, Hanks tries to reason with the Somali hijacker, saying to him: “There’s got to be something other than being a fisherman or kidnapping people.”  
在我看来，汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)主演的电影《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)中，有一句电影台词完美地捕捉了此刻的形势，它出自劫掠货船的索马里海盗头子之口。这名海盗给在波士顿长大的菲利普斯取了个绰号，叫“爱尔兰人”。在一个关键的场景中，汉克斯试图和这个索马里海盗讲道理，对他说：“总有别的路可走，不当渔夫，也不用绑架别人。”
To which the hijacker replies, “Maybe in America, Irish. Maybe in America.”
这个海盗却回答说：“也许在美国是那样，爱尔兰人。也许在美国。”
It has been instructive to see all these pressures up close here in Madagascar, one of the poorest countries in the world. The globalization of illicit trade has left Madagascar exposed to Chinese merchants working with corrupt officials here to illegally import everything from valuable rosewood timber to rare tortoises. Some global textile manufacturers set up factories then quit when the politics turned too unstable. Mandatory education here is only through age 15, and it’s in the local Malagasy language. That makes it hard to compete in a world where some developed countries are teaching computer coding in first grade.
马达加斯加是全球最贫穷的国家之一，近距离观察各种压力在这里的体现很能说明道理。由于非法贸易的全球化，中国商人和马达加斯加的腐败官员合作，非法从这里进口珍贵红木和稀有龟类。一些跨国纺织制造商在这里设厂，当政治局势不太稳定的时候就撤离。这里的义务教育只提供到15岁，使用的还是当地的马尔加什语。所以马达加斯加很难在这个世界上进行竞争，毕竟在一些发达国家，小学一年级就开始教计算机编程了。
And then there’s Mother Nature: the population of Madagascar is exploding, and the forests and soils are eroding. The soil for agriculture here is iron rich, nutrient poor and often very soft. Since 90 percent of Madagascar’s forests have been chopped down for slash-and-burn agriculture, timber, firewood and charcoal over the last century, most hillsides have no trees to hold the soil when it rains. Flying along the northwest coast, you can’t miss the scale of the problem. You see a giant red plume of eroded red soil bleeding into the Betsiboka River, bleeding into Mahajanga Bay, bleeding into the Indian Ocean. The mess is so big that astronauts take pictures of it from space.
在大自然方面：马达加斯加的人口正在迅速增长，森林和土壤正在遭受侵蚀。这里的农田土壤含铁丰富、缺少养分，而且往往很软。由于在上个世纪，为了开展刀耕火种式的农业活动，以及获得木材、木柴和木炭，90%的马达加斯加森林遭到砍伐，大多数山坡上都没有树木，无法在下雨的时候防止土壤流失。沿着该国的西北海岸飞行，你就会明白这个问题有多严重。你会看到一大片有着水土流失问题的红壤裸地，延伸到贝齐布卡河，延伸到马任加湾，延伸到印度洋。它如此巨大，宇航员从太空都能拍下它的照片。
“The more you erode, the more people you have with less soil under their feet to grow things,” said Russ Mittermeier, the president of Conservation International, who’s been working in Madagascar to help preserve its environment since 1984 and has been showing me around. “When I first came here in 1984, the population was nine or 10 million. It is now approaching 23 million.”
“你侵蚀的土壤越多，就有越多的人用越少的土壤来种植作物，”保护国际（Conservation International,简称 CI）的主席拉斯·米特密尔(Russ Mittermeier)说。从1984年起，他就在马达加斯加工作，致力于帮助维护这里的环境；他带着我四处参观。“我第一次来这里是1984年，当时这里的人口在900万到1000万之间。现在已经逼近2300万。”
When countries have rapidly growing populations and rapidly diminishing natural capital, the leadership required to match the scale of the problems they face is nothing less than herculean. After 50 years of mostly bad leadership, Madagascar has democratically elected a new, post-coup president, Hery Rajaonarimampianina. He seems to want to do the right things. We can only hope he has some Hercules in him.
当一些国家的人口迅速增长，自然资本迅速减少，他们所面临的问题非常巨大，也就相应地就需要强大的领导层。经过50多年的总体糟糕的领导之后，马达加斯加政变后民主选举产生了一位新的总统：埃里·拉乔纳里马曼皮亚尼纳(Hery Rajaonarimampianina)。他似乎想要做正确的事情。我们只能希望他非常强大有力。
Nothing he does will be more important than preserving what is left of Madagascar’s pristine beaches, forests and plant and animal species (particularly its lemurs), among the most rare and diverse in the world. Parks and reserves have been set aside by the government — and even with the destruction there’s still a ton to see — but they will only be sustainable if they are supported by ecotourist lodges and guides who are drawn from local communities and incentivized to protect their natural capital. But that takes a government able to expand protected areas, build proper roads (rural roads here have more potholes than pavement), crack down on illegal logging and provide credit to rural communities.
他的工作中最重要的部分无疑就是保护马达加斯加仅存的一点原始海滩、森林和动植物物种了（尤其是狐猴），这里的生物多样性在世界上是数一数二的。政府设置了公园和保护区——它们虽然遭受了毁坏，还是有不少可看的东西，但是这些地方要想维持下去，必须有生态旅游度假村和导游的支持，而导游们需要来自当地社区，乐于去保护他们的自然资本。这就需要一个政府能够扩大保护区，修筑像样的道路（这里的乡村道路坑坑洼洼，比人行道还糟糕），打击非法砍伐，向农村社区提供贷款。