Emily, a 15-year-old ninth-grader, ran away from home in early November, and her parents are sitting at their dining table, frightened and inconsolable.
15岁的九年级学生埃米莉(Emily)于11月初离家出走。此刻，她的父母坐在餐桌旁，惊恐万分，伤心欲绝。
The parents, Maria and Benjamin, both school-bus drivers, have been searching for their daughter all along and pushing the police to investigate. They gingerly confess their fears that Emily, a Latina, is being controlled by a pimp.
她的母亲玛丽亚(Maria)和父亲本杰明(Benjamin)都是校车司机。他们一直在寻找女儿，同时敦促警方进行调查。他们战战兢兢地承认，他们害怕身为拉美裔的埃米莉正被皮条客控制。
I’m here to try to understand the vast national problem of runaways, and I ask if they have checked Backpage.com, the leading website for prostitution and sex trafficking in America. They say they haven’t heard of it. Since I’ve written about Backpage before and am familiar with how runaways often end up in its advertisements, I pull out my laptop — and, in two minutes, we find an ad for a “mixed Latina catering to your needs” with photos of a semi-nude girl.
我来这里是为了了解离家出走这个在全国都很普遍的问题。我问他们有没有查阅过Backpage.com这个网站。该网站是美国首屈一指的卖淫和性交易网站。他们说没有听说过这个网站。因为之前写过有关Backpage的文章，也熟知离家出走者常常会出现在该网站的广告里，我拿出了自己的笔记本电脑——两分钟后，我们发现了一则“拉美混血儿服务于您的需求”的广告，广告附的照片上是一个半裸的女孩。
Maria staggers and shrieks. It’s Emily.
玛丽亚惊慌失措，尖叫了起来。那个女孩正是埃米莉。
A 2002 Justice Department study suggested that more than 1.6 million American juveniles run away or are kicked out of their home each year. Ernie Allen, a former president of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, has estimated that at least 100,000 kids are sexually trafficked each year in the United States.
司法部(Justice Department)2002年的一项研究发现，美国每年有超过160万青少年离家出走或被赶出家门。全美失踪和受虐儿童中心(National Center for Missing and Exploited Children)前主任厄尼·艾伦(Ernie Allen)估计，美国每年至少有10万名儿童被迫从事性交易。
Perhaps they aren’t a priority because they’re seen as asking for it, not as victims. This was Emily’s fourth time running away, and she seems to have voluntarily connected with a pimp. Based on text messages that her family intercepted, Emily was apparently used by a pimp to recruit one of her girlfriends — a common practice.
或许他们不是优先考虑的对象，因为他们被认为是自食其果，而非受害者。这是埃米莉第四次离家出走，她似乎是自愿与皮条客联系上的。根据她父母截获的短信，皮条客似乎正在利用埃米莉来征募她的一个女性朋友——这种做法很常见。
“Made about 15 or 16 hundred,” Emily boasted to her friend in one text. “Come make money with me I promise u gonna be good.”
“我赚了大约一千五，或一千六，”埃米莉在一条短信中向自己的朋友吹嘘道，“来和我一起赚钱吧，我保证你会很棒。”
So it’s true that no one was holding a gun to Emily’s head. Then again, she was 15, in a perilous business. And, in this case it turned out, having sex with a half-dozen men a day and handing over every penny to an armed pimp.
的确没人用枪抵着埃米莉的头。但她毕竟只有15岁，并且在从事一个危险的行业。而且，后来事实证明，埃米莉每天要和大约六个男人发生性关系，还要把每一分钱都交给带枪的皮条客。
A bit more searching on the Web, and we find that Emily has been advertised for sex in four states: Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Connecticut.
在网上又进行了更多搜索后，我们发现，埃米莉出现在了四个州的性交易广告里：缅因州、新罕布什尔州和康涅狄格州。
The ads say that Emily (the name used in the ads, which is not her real name) is “fetish-friendly,” and that’s scary. Pimps use “fetish-friendly” as a dog whistle to attract deviants who will pay more for the right to be extra violent or abusive.
这些广告说埃米莉（这是广告里用的名字，不是她的真名）“可以向恋物癖者提供服务”，这样说很可怕。皮条客把“可以服务恋物癖者”作为隐晦表达，用来吸引那些愿意为了能够更暴力或更粗鲁而出更多钱的性变态者。
“We don’t care what she did,” says Benjamin, in a shattered tone. “We just want her back.”
“我们不在乎她做过什么，”本杰明用颤抖的声音说，“我们只想让她回来。”
The ads for Emily include a cellphone number to set up “dates,” and we pass the information to the authorities. The pimp’s phone number should make it easy to find the girl, so we wait to see what will happen.
埃米莉的广告里包括了一个预定“约会”的电话号码，我们把信息移交给了警方。皮条客的电话号码应该能让警方轻易地追查到女孩的下落，于是我们静候事态进展。
Maria is bitter that the police haven’t done more. She has been pleading for months for help, hounding the police — and now she finds that her daughter has been advertised in four states on multiple prostitution websites and no one seems to have checked or noticed.
让玛丽亚不满的是，警方没有采取更多行动。她几个月来不断追着警方，乞求他们提供帮助——现在，她发现，已有多个卖淫网站在四个州发布了她女儿的信息，但似乎没有谁核查过或者留意到。
“I feel very strongly that it was racism,” Maria says. In fact, the Boston police force is admired nationally for its three-detective unit that fights human trafficking. This is the gold standard, yet, even here, a missing 15-year-old girl seemed to slip through the cracks.
玛丽亚说，“我强烈地感觉到，这是一种种族歧视。”实际上，波士顿警方由三位侦探组成的人口贩卖调查科在美国广受赞誉。他们是警界标杆，然而即使在这里，一名失踪的15岁少女似乎还是被人忽略了。
Every day, more than 4,000 children run away or are kicked out of their home — and there’s negligible interest. We feel outrage when Penn State or the Roman Catholic Church ignore child sexual abuse, but we, as a society, avert our eyes as well.
每天都有400多名儿童离家出走，或者被赶出家门——它们受到的关注微乎其微。当宾夕法尼亚州或罗马天主教会(Roman Catholic Church)对儿童性暴力案视若无睹时，我们感到义愤填膺，然而，总体而言，我们全体社会对这种现象一样是置若罔闻。
Partly the problem is that many see sex trafficking as serious only when the victim is dragged off in chains; we don’t appreciate Stockholm syndrome or understand that often the handcuffs are psychological. Attitudes are changing, just as they have toward domestic violence, but too slowly.
部分问题在于，只有看到带着锁链的受害者被拉走的情景，许多人才会意识到贩卖人口的严重性；我们不了解斯德哥尔摩综合征(Stockholm syndrome)，也不理解受害者受到的桎梏往往是心理上的。人们的态度在改变，就像他们对家庭暴力的态度已经发生改变一样，不过，这种转变太慢了。
There are failings here beyond law enforcement. You wonder about the men paying to have sex with a girl who looks so young. About the hotel clerks. And about why we tolerate websites like Backpage.com that peddle teenage girls.
除了执法不力之外，还存在其他缺陷。你会纳闷，什么样的男人会花钱和看上去如此年轻的女孩上床。你会纳闷，酒店的接待都在做什么。你会纳闷，为什么我们能容忍像Backpage.com这样贩卖少女的网站存在。
A few hours after I sent police the link, officers located Emily in New Hampshire. Police raided a hotel, rescuing her and arresting a man, Andy Pena, 19, who, they said, was her pimp and took all the money she made. Police said that Pena was armed.
在我向警方发送网站链接几小时之后，警察们锁定，埃米莉是在新罕布什尔州。警方突袭了一家旅馆，救出了她，并逮捕了一名19岁的男子安迪·佩纳(Andy Pena)，警方说，他是埃米莉的皮条客，他拿走了她挣的每一分钱。警方表示，佩纳随身携带着武器。
Pena is in jail in New Hampshire; his public defender declined to comment.
佩纳被关进新罕布什尔州的监狱；他的公共辩护律师拒绝置评。
Emily is ambivalent about her rescue. She’s in a group home, getting support from other survivors of human trafficking through a group called My Life My Choice. She’s still rebellious, but it’s a good sign that she hugged her mom. Maria wept.
埃米莉对于自己获救感觉相当矛盾。她现在住在一个儿童之家，通过一个名为“我的生活我的选择”(My Life My Choice)的团体，获得其他被贩卖的幸存者的支持。她依然叛逆，不过，她拥抱了自己的母亲，这是一个好迹象。玛丽亚哭了。
Today Emily is safe, but there are hundreds of thousands of other runaways out on the streets. These are our kids, in danger. Shouldn’t they be a national priority?
此刻，埃米莉是安全的，然而，街头仍有数以十万计离家出走的儿童。他们是我们的孩子，正身处险境。他们难道不该是国家优先考虑的对象吗？