MORE than two million years ago, mammoths and Asian elephants took different evolutionary paths — and around the same time, according to DNA research, so did their lumbering relatives in Africa. African elephants have long been thought of as a single species, but a critical mass of genetic studies now proves there are two.
两百多万年前，猛犸象和亚洲象在进化的路途上分道扬镳——根据DNA的研究，差不多在同一时期，它们在非洲体型笨重的亲戚也是如此。非洲象长期被认为是一个单一物种，但现在，大量重要的遗传学研究证明，它们实际上是两个物种。
You can tell the species — “forest” elephants and “savanna” elephants — are different just by looking at them carefully, but until 2010 the jury was still out on the genetic evidence. Forest elephants are much smaller, weighing half what savanna elephants weigh, and evolved in Central and West Africa’s rain forests; they have rounder ears than their cousins and straighter tusks. Savanna elephants, whose ears are more triangular and whose tusks are thick and curved, roam throughout the open, bushy terrain of other parts of the vast continent, from East Africa down to the south, where they’re most abundant. The two species are about as distinct from each other, in genetic terms, as lions are from tigers.
只要仔细看看“森林”象和“草原”象，你就知道它们属于不同物种。但是在2010年前，大家都还没有遗传证据来加以证明。森林象的体形小得多，重量只有草原象的一半，在非洲中部和西部的热带雨林里生活；它们的耳朵更圆，象牙更直。而草原象的耳朵更像三角形，象牙更粗更弯，它们分布在这片广袤大陆的其他区域，从非洲东部到南部，它们在布满灌木丛的广袤土地上漫步，数量以南部为最多。从基因方面看，这两个物种之间的差异，就像狮子和老虎一样。
Over the past decade a strong scientific consensus on the elephants’ biology has emerged. So, in June, the Center for Biological Diversity, where I work, filed a petition with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to reclassify African elephants as two separate species and protect them both as “endangered” under the federal Endangered Species Act.
过去十年中，科学界对大象的生物学研究达成了一个强有力的共识。因此，今年6月，我供职的生物多样性研究中心(Center for Biological Diversity)向美国鱼类和野生动物管理局(United States Fish and Wildlife Service)提出申请，要求把非洲象作为两个独立的物种重新分类，并依据《濒危物种保护法》(Endangered Species Act)，把这两个物种都列为“濒危”物种，加以保护。
It may seem odd that the United States gives any legal status at all to animals in other countries, but the truth is that American protection of “foreign” animals or plants under the powerful Endangered Species Act can bring tangible benefits to those species, including preventing the animals’ parts from being sold in the United States and preventing our government from sanctioning or paying for actions that hurt the animals. It can also provide funds for research and public education.
美国居然向其他国家的动物赋予法律地位，这听上去似乎有些奇怪。但事实上，美国在强大的《濒危物种保护法》下，对“外国”动物或植物予以保护，可以给这些物种带来实实在在的利益，包括防止这些动物的制品在美国出售，也防止美国政府对伤害这些动物的行为给予支持或为其买单。而且它还可以为研究和公众教育提供资金。
The question of one versus two species of African elephants isn’t about settling an arcane DNA argument; it’s about life or death for these majestic, extraordinary creatures. Without elephants, Africa’s landscape would be unrecognizable, yet these animals have fallen by the hundreds of thousands as a result of two enormous waves of poaching in this century — one in the 1970s and 1980s, the other, beginning around 2009, now underway. If the center’s petition is granted, it could be a lifeline.
非洲象是一个还是两个物种的问题涉及的，不是解决一个有关DNA的深奥分歧，而是这些高大奇特的动物的生死。如果没有了大象，非洲的景观可能会难以辨认。然而，因为一百年来两波巨大的偷猎浪潮——一次是在七八十年代，另一次始于2009年前后，一直持续到现在——这些动物的数量减少数十万头。如果生物多样性研究中心的申请获批，就可能挽救它们的生命。
Here’s how. Right now, the two elephant species are treated as one and protected under the Endangered Species Act only as “threatened” — a less protective status than “endangered.” What “endangered” means for elephants, or any other animals or plants, is simple: There aren’t many left, so the species is at risk of going extinct. Acknowledging the scientific fact that these are two different animals reveals the truly low numbers — relative to historic abundance — of each one. Instead of looking at about half a million individuals remaining in a species, we’re likely looking at a maximum of 100,000 (and possibly as few as 50,000) forest elephants surviving in the world and an estimated 400,000 savanna elephants. It’s important to understand, though, that the actual figures could be much lower, since elephants are notoriously hard to count.
理由如下。目前的情况是，这两个物种被当成了一个，且仅被《濒危物种保护法》列为“面临威胁”，保护力度不及“濒危”状态。对大象或其他动植物来说，“濒危”的含义很简单：所剩不多，因此相关物种面临着灭绝的风险。承认它们是两种不同的动物这个科学事实，可以揭示出它们各自的数量——与史上繁盛的时期相比——真的很少。我们看到的就不再是一个物种还幸存下来了大约50万头，而是全世界幸存的森林象最多只有10万头（少的话可能只有5万头），草原象估计有40万头。重要的是，要明白实际数量可能要少得多，因为大象数量难以统计是出了名的。
Populations of both species are in free fall as poaching frenzies drive the brutal killing and butchering, for their tusks, of tens of thousands of elephants every year. The number of Central African forest elephants declined by 62 percent in less than a decade, devastated by a lethal cocktail of illegal hunting, habitat loss and civil strife, and are the more urgently at risk of the two. Savanna elephant populations have also significantly declined throughout their range, with particular devastation in Tanzania, where one of the strongest populations of elephants — 109,000 animals — dropped to about 43,000 in just five years, between 2009 and 2014.
每年，为获取象牙而进行的疯狂偷猎活动，会导致数万头大象被残忍地屠杀。在这种情况下，这两个物种的种群数量都在迅速减少。在不到十年时间里，因为非法狩猎、栖息地丧失和内战这些致命原因，非洲中部森林象的数量减少了62%，它也是两个物种中面临风险较大的。草原象在它们整个活动范围内的数量都在大幅减少，特别是在坦桑尼亚。在那里，从2009年到2014年这短短五年的时间里，草原象的数量从堪称巅峰水平的10.9万头，减少到了大约4.3万头。
If the United States recognizes and protects the two species, the International Union for Conservation of Nature and CITES, the treaty that regulates global trade in endangered wildlife, may follow suit, bringing new and urgently needed help to the highest-risk elephant populations.
如果美国承认和保护这两个物种，世界自然保护联盟(International Union for Conservation of Nature)和规制全球濒危野生动植物贸易的条约《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》（Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species，简称CITES），可能也会效仿，为处于高危状态的大象带来新的、急需的帮助。
An endangered listing would also tighten restrictions on the import, export and sale of ivory products to, from and in the United States. After China, the United States is the world’s second-largest market for ivory, with the legal trade in old ivory being used as a cover for illegal trade in new ivory. Last month, a senior Chinese wildlife official pledged to end the ivory trade if the United States does, too.
将其列入濒危名单，可能还会让美国加紧对象牙制品的进出口，以及在国内销售的限制。美国是仅次于中国的全球第二大象牙制品市场，合法的旧象牙制品贸易，被用作非法的新产品贸易的幌子。上月，中国一名负责野生动物保护事务的高级官员承诺，如果美国结束象牙贸易，中国也会这么做。
That means American action on reclassifying African elephants now could lead to a transformation of the way the planet’s two largest economies — which also happen to be its two largest ivory consumers — are handling the crisis of the animals’ slaughter.
那意味着，美国现在对非洲象重新分类的行动，可能会促使全世界最大的两个经济体，改变对非洲大象遭到屠杀的应对方式，而这两个国家恰好也是最大的两个象牙消费国。
We should act now, before it’s too late.
我们应该现在就行动起来，否则就来不及了。