Wine School, a monthly column, invites you to drink wine with Eric Asimov. In each installment, Mr. Asimov chooses a type of wine for you to try at home. After a month, Mr. Asimov posts his reaction to the wine and addresses readers’ thoughts and questions. The last installment of Wine School featured Sancerre. This month’s wine selection: Riesling.
每月专栏葡萄酒学校请你和埃里克·阿西莫夫(Eric Asimov)一起喝葡萄酒。阿西莫夫每期选一种葡萄酒让你在家品尝。一个月后，阿西莫夫发布他对这种葡萄酒的评价，同时讨论读者们的想法和问题。红酒学校上期选的是桑塞尔(Sancerre)白葡萄酒。这个月选的是雷司令(Riesling)干白葡萄酒。
This month we leave France for Germany and for riesling. Like sauvignon blanc, riesling is produced all over the world. But just as an understanding of sauvignon blanc must begin in the Loire Valley, an examination of riesling starts with Germany.
这个月我们离开法国，前往德国品尝雷司令干白葡萄酒。和苏维浓白葡萄酒(sauvignon blanc)一样，雷司令在世界各地都有生产。但是就像理解苏维浓白葡萄酒必须从卢瓦尔河谷开始一样，研究雷司令必须从德国开始。
Not that we don’t have many options. Wonderful, distinctive examples of riesling come from Alsace and from Austria. I’ve had great rieslings from Napa Valley and the Finger Lakes, from Australia and New Zealand, from Michigan and Ontario.
我们并不是没有很多选择。阿尔萨斯和奥地利出产了很多奇妙、独特的雷司令。我喝过很多地方出产的美味的雷司令，比如纳帕谷、五指湖区、澳大利亚、新西兰、密歇根和安大略湖。
It is often assumed that riesling is a sweet wine, because for much of the 20th century the dominant style in Germany was of riesling with varying degrees of sweetness. Yet today, German wine drinkers vastly prefer dry rieslings, and many of the better examples are now exported to the United States.
人们通常认为雷司令是一种甜味葡萄酒，因为在20世纪的大部分时间，德国的主要葡萄酒是各种甜度的雷司令。但是如今，德国的葡萄酒饮用者大多更喜欢雷司令干白，其中很多较好的种类现在出口到了美国。
I love the German style of sweet riesling. These wines are so carefully calibrated that the best are thoroughly refreshing no matter how sweet. They are low in alcohol, beautifully reflect their places of origin, and are unlike any other rieslings. Yet the dry German rieslings can be superb and distinctive as well. Since the nomenclature surrounding the sweet styles is so complex and convoluted, we’ll focus first on dry rieslings.
我喜欢德国风味的甜味雷司令。这些酒都经过仔细的标准化处理，其中最好的不管多甜都非常清新。它们的酒精含量低，完美地体现了其原产地的风格，跟其他地方产的雷司令都不相同。不过德国雷司令干白也同样卓越而独特。由于甜味葡萄酒的命名法非常复杂，难以理解，所以我们先专心品尝雷司令干白。
Here are the three German rieslings that I suggest you find:
下面是我建议你们寻找的三款德国雷司令：
Dönnhoff Nahe Riesling Trocken 2012 (Terry Theise Estate Selection/Michael Skurnik Wines, Syosset, N.Y.) $20.
纳赫区多纳霍夫雷司令干白，2012年(Dönnhoff Nahe Riesling Trocken 2012)。特里·泰泽葡萄园精选公司/迈克尔·斯库尔尼克葡萄酒公司(Terry Theise Estate Selection/Michael Skurnik Wines)，塞特，纽约。20美元。
Dr. Bürklin-Wolf Pfalz Bürklin Estate Dry Riesling 2012 (Europvin U.S.A., Van Nuys, Calif.) $18.
法尔兹区伯克林葡萄园的伯克林-沃尔夫博士雷司令干白，2012年(Dr. Bürklin-Wolf Pfalz Bürklin Estate Dry Riesling 2012)。Europvin美国公司(Europvin U.S.A.)，范奈斯，加利福尼亚州。18美元。
Leitz Rheingau Riesling Trocken Eins Zwei Dry 2012 (Terry Theise Estate Selection/Michael Skurnik Wines, Syosset, N.Y.) $17.
莱茵高区莱茨酒庄的爱因斯·扎维雷司令干白，2012年(Leitz Rheingau Riesling Trocken Eins Zwei Dry 2012)。特里·泰泽葡萄园精选公司/迈克尔·斯库尔尼克红酒公司，塞特，纽约。17美元。
Each of these producers makes many different wines, so take care in selecting these bottles. They may be hard to find. Though it is often a good sign when wines are made in small quantities, it’s also frustrating for consumers.
这些酒厂每家都生产很多种酒，所以你需要仔细挑选。它们也许很难找到。虽然少量生产的葡萄酒通常是好酒，但顾客们找不到的时候也会感到沮丧。
If you can’t find any of these, don’t worry. Excellent producers of dry riesling abound, and here are some: A. J. Adam, Keller, Robert Weil, Wagner-Stempel, Karthäuserhof, Knebel, Von Racknitz, Georg Breuer and Rebholz. Look for “Trocken” on the label, which indicates dry. Exalted dry rieslings from the best vineyards may instead contain the phrase “Grosses Gewächs,” although Rheingau may use the term “Erstes Gewächs.”
如果你找不到这些酒也没有关系。有很多生产雷司令干白的优秀酒厂，下面是其中一些：A·J·亚当(A. J. Adam)，凯勒(Keller)，罗伯特·威尔(Robert Weil)，瓦格纳-斯坦普尔(Wagner-Stempel)，卡索瑟霍夫(Karthäuserhof)，克内贝尔(Knebel)，冯·莱克尼茨(Von Racknitz)，格奥尔格·布罗伊尔(Georg Breuer)和雷布霍兹(Rebholz)。在商标上寻找“Trocken”字样，它的意思是干葡萄酒。来自最好的葡萄园的上等雷司令干白可能包含的是“Grosses Gewächs”这样的短语，不过莱茵高区可能用的是“Erstes Gewächs”这个短语。
Riesling is among the most versatile wines with food and should go well with seafood, chicken and cheeses. These wines are also good with Chinese dishes that are not too hot, Japanese food and even Indian food, again, as long as it isn’t too hot.
雷司令是几乎能和各种食物搭配的葡萄酒之一，和海鲜、鸡肉、奶酪都很配。这些酒和不太辣的中餐、日本料理、甚至不太辣的印度菜搭配也很合适。
As with most good white wines, try not to serve them icy cold. A rule of thumb is 30 minutes out of the fridge before drinking. Lightly chilled is what you’re after. And while you are drinking them, consider these three questions:
对大多数上好的白葡萄酒，尽量都不要冰冷饮用。一个简单的办法是从冰箱里取出来30分钟后再饮用。微冷时的口感最佳。品尝的时候，请思考下面三个问题：
Does the wine taste and smell like fruit? Or something else? If something else, how would you describe it? German rieslings often offer great examples of “minerality.” Does that strike you as a fair description?
这种酒尝起来、闻起来像不像水果？还是像其他什么东西？如果是其他东西，你怎么描述它？
Minerality is often as much about texture as it is flavor. How does the wine feel in your mouth, and can you still feel it after you’ve swallowed the wine? How does it go with the food?
德国雷司令通常是“有矿物质风味”(minerality)的极佳例子。你觉得这样描述合理吗？有矿物质风味通常既指味道，也指质地。这种红酒在你嘴里是什么感觉？你咽下去后还能感觉到它吗？它和食物搭配起来感觉如何？
If you care to, compare these German rieslings with examples from elsewhere and see if you can describe how they differ.
如果你愿意的话，把这些德国雷司令和其他地方的雷司令比较一下，看看你是否能讲出它们的不同之处。