In traditional schooling, time is a constant and understanding is a variable. A fifth-grade class will spend a set number of days on prime factorization and then move on to study greatest common factors — whether or not every student is ready.
在传统的学校教育中，时间是常量，掌握程度是变量。五年级学生会花固定的天数学习质因数分解，然后再学习最大公约数——无论是不是每位学生都做好了准备。
But there is another way to look at schooling — through the lens of a method called “mastery learning,” in which the student’s understanding of a subject is a constant and time is a variable; when each fifth grader masters prime factorization, for instance, he moves on to greatest common factors, each at his own pace.
但是对学校教育还有另一种见解——需要用到一种叫作“精熟学习”(mastery learning)的方法，按照这种方法，学生们对一门科目的掌握程度是常量，而学习时间则是变量；例如，一名五年级学生只有在掌握了质因数分解之后才会继续学习最大公约数的知识，每个人都按照自己的进度推进。
Mastery learning is not a new idea. It was briefly popular in the 1920s, and was revived by Benjamin Bloom in his paper “Learning for Mastery” in 1968. It has shown dramatic success — compilations of studies can be found here and here.
“精熟学习”不是什么新概念。它在上世纪20年代曾经短暂地流行过，1968年，本杰明·布卢姆(Benjamin Bloom)在他的论文《精熟学习》(Learning for Mastery)中再次提到了这个方法。如今它已经取得巨大的成功——在这里和这里可以了解到相关研究。
One of the advantages of mastery learning is that the student, not the teacher, leads — and we know that people learn far better when they are actively involved. The teacher provides materials, tools and constant support. Students set their own goals and manage their own time.
“精熟学习”的一个优势在于，扮演主导角色的是学生不是老师——我们都知道，人在积极参与的情况下学习效果要好得多。老师提供材料、工具和持续的支持。学生们设定自己的目标，自己管理时间。
In a traditional classroom, the teacher must aim the lecture at the middle, leaving the faster learners bored and the slower ones lost. Differentiation and personalization are big challenges. But the mastery system allows each student to learn at her own pace.
在传统教室，老师的授课内容必须针对中等水平的学生，这样一来，学得快的学生会觉得无聊，学得慢的学生又跟不上。很难做到区别化和个性化教学。但是精熟教学的体系允许每一个学生以自己的节奏学习。
Mastery also rewards students for actual learning. A student cannot simply turn in a shoddy paper, take the D and move on. If she turns in shoddy work, she can’t move on. She has to keep trying until she demonstrates she fully understands.
精熟学习也会鼓励真正用心学习的学生。学生不能交上一份差强人意的答卷，得一个D，然后继续学习新的知识。如果成绩不好，就不能学习新内容，她必须继续努力，直到证明自己已经完全掌握了这些知识。
Despite these advantages, mastery learning never caught on, mainly because it was a nightmare for teachers. One problem was how to do direct instruction; a teacher can’t give five different lectures in one class. The other was how to test students. Multiple versions of a test were needed so students couldn’t pass them to friends who would be taking them later.
尽管有这些优势，但精熟学习从来没有流行起来，主要因为它对老师们来说是一个噩梦。一个问题是，如何进行直接指导；老师不可能在一堂课上讲五种课。另一个问题是如何考试。为了防止学生把试卷给后考试的同学看，必须制作不同版本的试卷。
But some teachers are now reviving mastery learning. What is making it feasible is the flipped classroom, a method I wrote about in my most recent column.
不过，一些教师现在正在重新提倡“精熟学习”。这之所以可行，还要归功于“翻转教室”(flipped classroom)的出现。我在最近的专栏中谈论过这个方法。
In a flipped classroom, teachers make videos of their lectures introducing new concepts and assign them as homework. That frees up precious class time to work directly with students on projects, exercises or problem sets — the stuff that students would traditionally do at home. Now instead, of struggling alone, students can do the most important work with a teacher or peers who can help.
在翻转教室里，老师制作讲课视频，在视频中讲解新的概念，然后把视频作为家庭作业发给学生。这就解放了宝贵的课堂时间，老师们利用这些时间直接与学生一起做课题、练习或题集——学生们以往都是在家里做这些东西。现在，学生们不用在家里孤军奋战了，她们可以在一名老师或是几名同学的帮助下完成最重要的工作。
(Incidentally, many of those who commented in response to my flipped classroom column asked: where’s the reading? The answer is: where it always was. Students still read for homework. But in a flipped classroom, they won’t do problems at home any more — they’ll watch the lectures instead.)
（顺便说一句，许多在我关于“翻转教室”的专栏下面发表评论的人问：什么时候阅读呢？答案是：和以前一样。阅读仍然是家庭作业的一部分。但是在翻转教室，他们在家里不再需要做题了——而是在家看视频听课。）
Thousands of teachers are experimenting with flipping their classrooms in elementary schools, law schools and everything in between. Jon Bergmann, a former chemistry teacher who used flipped learning and now teaches others about it, lists 15,000 members in the Flipped Learning Network.
在下至小学上至法学院的各级学校里，数千名教师正在尝试“翻转教室”的方法。使用过翻转教学的乔恩·伯格曼(Jon Bergmann)以前是化学老师，现在他在向其他人传授这种教学方法，他的“翻转学习网络”(Flipped Learning Network)的会员已经达到1.5万名。
But a handful of innovative teachers are venturing further, using the flipped classroom to employ mastery learning — “flipped mastery,” as Bergmann and his fellow chemistry teacher Aaron Sams call it in their book, “Flip Your Classroom: Reach Every Student in Every Class Every Day.” Since the flipped classroom eliminates the whole-class lecture, they’ve realized, it has also eliminated the reason for students to work at a uniform pace.
但是一批具有创新精神的老师又向前迈出了一步，他们把“翻转教室”和“精熟学习”结合了起来，形成了“翻转精熟教学”，这是伯格曼和另一位化学老师阿伦·萨姆斯(Aaron Sams)在他们的著作《翻转你的教室：每一天每一课指导每一个学生》(Flip Your Classroom: Reach Every Student in Every Class Every Day)中提及的概念。他们意识到，翻转教室的方法取消了全班授课，因此学生们也就没理由继续以统一的速度学习了。
Tim Kelly, who teaches math at a high school in Baumholder, Germany, which serves children of United States military families, heard about the idea when he sat next to Sams on a bus trip when they both won the Presidential Award for Mathematics and Science Teaching
蒂姆·凯利(Tim Kelly)是德国鲍姆霍尔德一所高中的数学老师。这所高中是面向美国军人家庭的孩子的。凯利在与萨姆斯并肩乘坐一辆巴士的时候听说了这个想法，当时，他们都刚刚获得了数学和科学杰出教学总统奖(Presidential Award for Mathematics and Science Teaching)。
When Kelly came back from the ceremony in December, 2010, he talked excitedly about flipped mastery with his colleagues Corey Sullivan and Mike Brust.
2010年12月从颁奖典礼回来之后，凯利兴奋地对同事科里·沙利文(Corey Sullivan)和迈克·布鲁斯特(Mike Brust)谈起了翻转精熟教学。
That’s crazy,” said Sullivan; it sounded radical and chaotic. “No way should we ever do that.”
沙利文说，“这太疯狂了；”听起来太反传统，太混乱了。“咱们可不能这么做。”
But as spring approached they decided to try it. “We had some struggles with our kids,” Sullivan said. They figured it couldn’t hurt to try something new.
但在春天即将到来的时候，他们决定试试。沙利文说，“我们与孩子们产生了一些争执。”他们后来想，尝试点新东西也没什么坏处。
They worked around the clock through spring break to design the course and create materials. “We put in 40 to 60 hours outside school just for a unit,” Sullivan said — and there were 12 units per course. They had to make all the videos; such a quick switch was only possible because they divided the work among them. (They now call themselves the Algebros. They post all their lessons and materials online; feel free to borrow.)
他们在春假中日以继夜地工作，设计课程，编写材料。沙利文说，“我们为一个单元要投入40到60小时的课余时间。”而每门课程有12个单元。他们需要制作所有的视频；幸亏他们做了分工，否则根本不可能如此迅速地完成教学方式的转变。（他们现在把自己叫做代数兄弟[Algebros]。他们把所有的课程和材料都放到了网上；随时可以借阅。）
The fourth Algebro, Spencer Bean, who also won the Presidential Award, had stuck with the traditional way. But then his daughter went through Kelly’s flipped mastery Algebra 1 class, and he was converted. “Here I am with this award and I’m going to throw away everything I’ve been doing that I just got an award for,” he said.
代数兄弟的老四斯潘塞·比恩(Spencer Bean)也得过总统奖。他此前一直坚持传统的教学方法。但是后来，在他的女儿参与了凯利的翻转精熟教学代数一级班之后，他改变了看法。他说，“现在我得奖了，我要抛弃一直以来的做法，那些让我得奖的教学方法。
Setting up a flipped mastery class is a second full-time job, and the method can also demand more teacher time before and after class to make sure every student gets personal attention. But teachers also say that it saves them time on the paperwork. Tom Driscoll, who uses flipped mastery to teach history at Putnam High School in Putnam, Conn., notes that he no longer has to write daily lesson plans.
策划一堂翻转精熟教学课需要大量的时间，几乎相当又一份全职工作，而使用这种教学方式也需要老师在课前和课后花更多时间，确保每位学生都能得到足够的关注。但老师们也说这么做节省了在案头工作上消耗的时间。汤姆·德里斯科尔(Tom Driscoll)使用翻转精熟教学方法在康涅狄格州帕特南的帕特南中学(Putnam High School)教历史，他指出，他从此不再需要写下每日的教学计划了。
Another advantage: less (or no) student work to grade at home. “We stopped grading papers in the sense of taking them home and having stacks and feeling guilty for not doing them,” said Bergmann. “Everything they turned in we went over in class. There’s a lot of teaching in the grading process.“ After the student takes the test or turns in a project designed to demonstrate mastery, the teacher sits with the student and goes over the work, providing immediate feedback. Bloom called this formative assessment. (There’s no reason teachers couldn’t do this in any classroom. But it’s far less feasible when 30 kids are taking the test together.)
另一个好处是：需要在家里批改的学生作业少了（或者没有了）。“以往我们总是会把学生作业带回家，摞成一堆堆的，然后又因为一直没批改而感到愧疚，这种意义上的作业现在已经没有了，”伯格曼说。“他们交上来的所有东西我们都会当堂进行查阅，在批改过程中就有很多教学会同时进行。”在一名学生考试以后，或者完成测试其熟练程度的课题并交给老师以后，老师会和学生坐下来，一起查看这些结果，并立即给予反馈。布卢姆将这称为建设性评估。（其实任何教师在任何课上都不是不能这么做。但如果是30个孩子一起考试，那就不太可行了。）
“There’s my one-on-one time with students,” said Brian Gervase, who uses flipped mastery in his pre-calculus class at Downers Grove North High School in Downers Grove, Ill. “Let’s look over the work together and make sure you understand this particular skill.”
“这是我和学生们一对一的时间，”在伊利诺伊州道纳斯格罗夫的北道纳斯格罗夫中学(Downers Grove North High School)利用翻转精熟教学教授微积分入门的布赖恩·杰维斯(Brian Gervase)说。“让我们一起查看结果，确保你能掌握这一知识。”
A typical day in a flipped mastery classroom usually starts with a brief group activity and poll: who needs extra help or is ready for a mastery check?
翻转精熟教学班的一天通常始于简短的集体活动，然后老师会征求学生的意见：谁需要额外的帮助，或者谁准备好测试他的熟练程度？
Then the noise begins — “a 10-ring circus,” Bergmann and Sams call it. “Kids are coming at you all day long,” said Kelly. “The first day, I got dizzy a couple of times.” Driscoll made a three-minute video version of a typical class, which you can see here.
然后这就开始热闹了——就像是“有十场表演同时进行的马戏，”伯格曼和萨姆斯这么说。“一整天都不断会有孩子来找你，”凯利说。“第一天，我几次出现了眩晕。”德里斯科尔拍摄了一堂翻转精熟教学课并制作成一个三分钟的视频，你可以在这里看到。
Some teachers offer students a menu of learning activities to choose from, and another menu of ways to demonstrate mastery — that way, a student who does not test well, for example, could still show her understanding. Driscoll allows students to complete three from a list of choices, including writing an essay, giving a speech, having a debate or designing a video game.
一些老师会给学生们提供一个学习活动的选单，他们可以从中做出选择，还有一个测试其熟练程度的方式选单，举例来说，一个不善于考试的学生通过这种方式还是可以展示其理解程度。德里斯科尔允许学生们从不同的项目中选择三样来完成，包括写一篇作文，做一次演讲，进行一场辩论，或者设计一个电子游戏。
In math, multiple-choice tests are more common. Bergmann uses Moodle software, which creates at random a different test each time from a pool of questions the teacher writes in advance (here is a tutorial on using it). A student who can’t show that she grasps the concepts must do more work and then retake the assessment.
在数学课上，多项选择的测试更多了。伯格曼使用Moodle软件制作试卷。这一软件会从事先由老师准备好的题库中进行随机选择，自动生成的试卷每份都不同（这里有一个使用教程）。如果一名学生无法证明她掌握了这些概念，她就必须继续学习，然后再次进行评估。
Driscoll structures his class like a video game — it’s a post-apocalyptic 2045, and students have to study different civilizations to come up with a way for society to rebuild itself. “You have to complete certain ‘missions’ to move to the next level — some are teams, some are solo,” he said. Sound corny? “Engagement has gone through the roof,” he said. (Driscoll and his fellow Putnam social studies teacher Brian Germain have a lot of creative ideas — their Web sites are here and here.)
德里斯科尔将他的课设计成电子游戏的形式——这是世界末日降临后的2045年，学生们必须学习不同的文明来总结出一套社会重建的方式。“你必须完成一定的‘任务’，才能晋级到下一阶段——一些人进行合作，一些人独自行动，”他说。这听上去很老套吗？“学生们参与的热情格外高涨，”他说。（德里斯科尔和他在帕特南中学教社会学的教师同事布莱恩·杰曼[Brian Germain]有很多创新的想法——以下分别是他们两人的网站flipped-history.com和learninglyceum.org。）
It is too early to have formal proof of the effectiveness of this iteration of flipped mastery, and its use is still too limited. (The Flipped Learning Network forum on mastery learning currently has 267 members.)
要判断翻转精熟教学的这种版本是否有效，目前还不具备足够有条理的证据，而且它的使用范围也太有限。（翻转学习网络的精熟学习论坛目前有267个成员。）
But teachers who use flipped mastery claim that its efficiency allows most students to do a year’s work in much less time. They build in extra units for advanced students or work with them on independent projects.
但是使用翻转精熟教学方法的老师们宣称，它的有效性体现在多数学生都可以用更少的时间来完成一年的学习。他们会为进度快的学生设计额外的课程单元，或者和他们一起进行独立的课题学习。
They say it’s also a better way to teach slower learners, giving them more teacher attention and personalized instruction. Kelly said that at Baumholder, the math department tries to put struggling students in the flipped mastery class. “As soon as we flipped, we noticed that students’ focus really improved,” said Kelly. “Math teachers get some really bad grades, but that doesn’t happen anymore. Maybe it takes longer, a little more practice, but they can do it. They’re not bombing.”
他们说，这对那些进度较慢的学生来说也是一个更好的方式，能让他们得到老师更多的关注和有针对性的指导。凯利表示，在鲍姆霍尔德，数学组的老师们尽量将跟不上的学生安排到翻转精熟教学课上。“一旦我们开始进行翻转精熟教学，我们就会注意到学生们集中注意力的程度得到了真正的提高，”凯利说。“数学老师们总是会打出一些极低的分数，但这不会再出现了。可能需要花更多的时间，做更多练习，但他们能做到。他们不会再出现不及格的情况了。”
“Before, some kids would do the minimum amount of work possible,” said Bean. “They’d get by with a C-. Now they know they have to master it to be able to move on. The same kids stay after school to work with me on assignments.”
“之前，一些孩子总是会尽量少用功，”比恩说。“他们会拿个C减勉强通过。现在他们知道，他们必须掌握好现阶段的课程才能继续学下去。同样的这些孩子现在会在课后留下来和我一起做功课。”
The truly struggling students might not get through a year’s material. But Brust notes that in a traditional class, they would be learning far less. “A kid who got a D would pass, but he was set up for failure for the rest of his career,” said Brust. “Now it may take longer, but when you’re done you have a solid foundation.”
那些真正跟不上的学生可能无法完成一年的学习进度。但布鲁斯特强调，在采用传统教学方法的课堂上，他们所能学到的更要少得多。“一个过去得D的孩子能通过，但这很可能会让他在日后的学习中失败，”布鲁斯特说。“现在，可能需要花更多的时间，但是一旦你完成了，你就打下了一个扎实的基础。”