SOME of the smartest thinkers on problems at home and around the world are university professors, but most of them just don’t matter in today’s great debates.
在国内外问题上，有许多最有头脑的思想者是大学教授。但在今天的大讨论中，他们大多无关紧要。
The most stinging dismissal of a point is to say: “That’s academic.” In other words, to be a scholar is, often, to be irrelevant.
否决某个观点最伤人的方式是说：“太学术了。”换句话说，学者意味着不相干。
One reason is the anti-intellectualism in American life, the kind that led Rick Santorum to scold President Obama as “a snob” for wanting more kids to go to college, or that led congressional Republicans to denounce spending on social science research. Yet it’s not just that America has marginalized some of its sharpest minds. They have also marginalized themselves.
原因之一是美国生活里的反智主义。正是这种反智主义导致奥巴马总统因为想让更多孩子上大学而被里克·桑托勒姆(Rick Santorum)指责为“附庸风雅”，也正是这种反智主义促使国会的共和党人大肆谴责用于社会科学研究的支出。不过，美国人不只是在把一些思想最为敏锐的人边缘化。他们也在把自己边缘化。
“All the disciplines have become more and more specialized and more and more quantitative, making them less and less accessible to the general public,” notes Anne-Marie Slaughter, a former dean of the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton and now the president of the New America Foundation.
“所有学科都变得越来越专业，越来越量化，普罗大众越来越难接近它们，”普林斯顿大学伍德罗·威尔逊学院(Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton)前院长、新美国基金会(New America Foundation)现任主席安妮-玛丽·斯劳特(Anne-Marie Slaughter)说。
There are plenty of exceptions, of course, including in economics, history and some sciences, in professional schools like law and business, and, above all, in schools of public policy; for that matter, we have a law professor in the White House. But, over all, there are, I think, fewer public intellectuals on American university campuses today than a generation ago.
当然，有许多例外，包括在经济学、历史和一些科学学科，以及法学院和商学院等职业学院中，最后当然还有公共政策学院；还有，我们的白宫里有一位法学教授。但我认为，总的来说，现在美国大学校园里的公共知识分子比二十多年前少了。
A basic challenge is that Ph.D. programs have fostered a culture that glorifies arcane unintelligibility while disdaining impact and audience. This culture of exclusivity is then transmitted to the next generation through the publish-or-perish tenure process. Rebels are too often crushed or driven away.
一个基本的挑战是，博士项目已经培育出了一种崇尚晦涩难懂、不屑于影响力和观众的文化。然后，在“不发表就灭亡”的终身教职评定制度中，这种排外文化又被灌输给下一代。反抗者往往会遭到镇压或驱逐。
“Many academics frown on public pontificating as a frivolous distraction from real research,” said Will McCants, a Middle East specialist at the Brookings Institution. “This attitude affects tenure decisions. If the sine qua non for academic success is peer-reviewed publications, then academics who ‘waste their time’ writing for the masses will be penalized.”
“许多学者不愿公开发表意见，认为这么做很无聊，会干扰真正的研究，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)中东问题专家威尔·麦坎茨(Will McCants)说。“这种态度会影响教职评定的决定。如果学术成功的必备条件是同行评议的出版物，那么那些‘把时间浪费在’为大众写作上的学者就会受到处罚。”
The latest attempt by academia to wall itself off from the world came when the executive council of the prestigious International Studies Association proposed that its publication editors be barred from having personal blogs. The association might as well scream: We want our scholars to be less influential!
为了将自己和外部世界隔开，学术界距今最近的尝试是，享有威望的国际研究学会(International Studies Association)执行委员会提议，禁止旗下出版物的编辑使用个人博客。协会不如直接喊一声：我们希望自己的学者不要那么有影响力。
A related problem is that academics seeking tenure must encode their insights into turgid prose. As a double protection against public consumption, this gobbledygook is then sometimes hidden in obscure journals — or published by university presses whose reputations for soporifics keep readers at a distance.
一个相关问题是，希望获得终身教职的学者必须要给自己的见解编码，将其变成华而不实的散文。作为防止公众阅读的双重保障，这种官样文章有时会藏身于晦涩的期刊中——或是由大学的出版社发表。这些出版社催眠读者的名声让读者对其敬而远之。
Jill Lepore, a Harvard historian who writes for The New Yorker and is an exception to everything said here, noted the result: “a great, heaping mountain of exquisite knowledge surrounded by a vast moat of dreadful prose.”
为《纽约时报》撰稿的哈佛大学历史学家吉尔·莱波雷(Jill Lepore)是一个例外。她指出了如下后果：“堆积成山的大量微妙知识被一条由乏味的散文组成的大壕沟包围着”。
As experiments, scholars have periodically submitted meaningless gibberish to scholarly journals — only to have the nonsense respectfully published.
作为一种尝试，学者们会定期向学术期刊提交不知所云的文章——只是为了让那些胡扯能令人尊敬地得到发表。
My onetime love, political science, is a particular offender and seems to be trying, in terms of practical impact, to commit suicide.
我曾经喜欢的政治学是一个独特的、不守规矩的学科，而从实际影响来看，这门学科似乎是不想活下去了。
“Political science Ph.D.’s often aren’t prepared to do real-world analysis,” says Ian Bremmer, a Stanford political science Ph.D. who runs the Eurasia Group, a consulting firm. In the late 1930s and early 1940s, one-fifth of articles in The American Political Science Review focused on policy prescriptions; at last count, the share was down to 0.3 percent.
“政治学博士通常都没做好对现实世界进行分析的准备，”经营着咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)的斯坦福大学政治学博士伊恩·布雷默(Ian Bremmer)说。上世纪30年代末、40年代初，《美国政治学评论》(The American Political Science Review)上五分之一的文章关注的焦点是政策规定；而在上一次统计中，这一比例已降至0.3%。
Universities have retreated from area studies, so we have specialists in international theory who know little that is practical about the world. After the Arab Spring, a study by the Stimson Center looked back at whether various sectors had foreseen the possibility of upheavals. It found that scholars were among the most oblivious — partly because they relied upon quantitative models or theoretical constructs that had been useless in predicting unrest.
大学已经退出了领域研究，因此才有了一些对这个世界的实际知识几乎一窍不通的国际理论专家。阿拉伯之春后，史汀生中心(Stimson Center)的一项研究回过头去调查各领域是否预见到可能发生动乱。研究发现，学者是对这种可能性最没有察觉的人群之一——这在一定程度上因为他们靠的是量化模型或理论构想。在预测骚乱这一点上，这些根本没用。
Many academic disciplines also reduce their influence by neglecting political diversity. Sociology, for example, should be central to so many national issues, but it is so dominated by the left that it is instinctively dismissed by the right.
许多学术科目也因忽略政治多样性而导致自己的影响降低。比如，社会学本应对许多民族问题起到关键作用，但因为左翼占据了主导地位，右翼出于本能地对社会学不予考虑。
In contrast, economics is a rare academic field with a significant Republican presence, and that helps tether economic debates to real-world debates. That may be one reason, along with empiricism and rigor, why economists (including my colleague in columny, Paul Krugman) shape debates on issues from health care to education.
相比之下，经济学是少有的共和党具有很大影响力的学术领域，这有助于把经济讨论集中成对现实世界的讨论。除经验论和严谨外，这可能也是经济学家（包括和我一起撰写专栏的同事保罗·克鲁格曼[Paul Krugman]）引导了有关医保和教育等问题的讨论的原因之一。
Professors today have a growing number of tools available to educate the public, from online courses to blogs to social media. Yet academics have been slow to cast pearls through Twitter and Facebook. Likewise, it was TED Talks by nonscholars that made lectures fun to watch (but I owe a shout-out to the Teaching Company’s lectures, which have enlivened our family’s car rides).
从网络课程到博客再到社交媒体，现如今教授可用来教导公众的工具越来越多。然而，学者们在通过Twitter和Facebook 发表真知灼见这一点上行动迟缓。同样，让讲座看起来有趣的是非学者人士所做的TED演讲(TED Talks)（不过我还没向教学公司[Teaching Company]公开致谢，它让我们家的乘车出行更有趣了）。
I write this in sorrow, for I considered an academic career and deeply admire the wisdom found on university campuses. So, professors, don’t cloister yourselves like medieval monks — we need you!
我是在悲伤中写这篇文章的，因为我曾经考虑过走学术这条路，也非常仰慕大学校园内的智慧。因此，教授们，不要像中世纪的僧侣那样与世隔绝——我们需要你们！