WASHINGTON — Pope Francis landed to a red carpet welcome here Tuesday afternoon as he opened his first visit to the United States determined to press the world's last superpower to do more to care for the planet and its most marginalized inhabitants.
华盛顿——教皇方济各(Pope Francis)于周二下午抵达这里，受到了隆重的欢迎。开始对美国进行首次访问的教皇，决心向世界上最后一个超级大国施压，要求它做出更多努力，关心地球和地球上的一些最受忽视的居民。
The papal jet swooped out of cloudy skies to touch down at Joint Base Andrews, the iconic post still better known as Andrews Air Force Base and home of the presidential air fleet. The pontiff was greeted by President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden and their wives, Michelle Obama and Jill Biden.
教皇乘坐的飞机从阴云中俯冲而下，降落在安德鲁斯联合基地(Joint Base Andrews)。这个著名的基地更为人所知的身份依然是安德鲁斯空军基地(Andrews Air Force Base)和总统机队驻地。教皇受到了贝拉克·奥巴马总统夫妇及副总统乔·拜登夫妇的欢迎。
The pope's arrival started a six-day journey that will take him from here to New York and Philadelphia and feature several Masses celebrated before huge crowds, the first canonization on American soil, an address to Congress and not a small degree of tension over his message.
教皇的到来标志着他为期六天的旅程的开始。在此期间，他将从这里前往纽约和费城，并在庞大的人群前主持几场弥撒。他还会主持美国领土上的首次封圣，并在国会发表演讲。访问期间，他传递的讯息将引发相当程度的紧张气氛。
“The pope is a singular figure, and he has really stirred the souls of people all around the world,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary.
“教皇是一个非常伟大的人，他真的触动了全世界人民的灵魂，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说。
Francis arrived here from Cuba, where he wrapped up a four-day visit Tuesday morning in the country's heartland of religion and revolution, visiting the shrine of the country's patron in El Cobre and delivering his final words to the Cuban people in the nearby city of Santiago de Cuba.
教皇的上一站是古巴。周二上午，他在该国的宗教和革命中心结束了对古巴为期四天的访问。他参观了埃尔科夫雷的圣殿，并在邻近的圣地亚哥-德古巴市发表了对古巴民众的最后讲话。
The White House sought to highlight the alignment between the president and the pope, while de-emphasizing areas of discord.
白宫希望突显总统与教皇同在一条战线，同时淡化双方存在分歧的地方。
Several liberal House Democrats released three short videos on Tuesday beseeching Francis to address immigration, climate change and poverty in his address to Congress. Abortion opponents were hoping Francis would boost their bid to impose new limits on the procedure and cut off federal financing of Planned Parenthood.
周二，众议院的几名自由派民主党议员发布了三段简短的视频，恳请方济各在国会演讲时讨论移民、气候变化和贫困问题。反对堕胎者希望方济各能增强他们的诉求，即增加对堕胎的限制，并削减联邦政府对美国计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)的资助。