The growing basketball collaboration between Dennis Rodman and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, can be traced back to an Irish online betting company and the pope.
丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)和朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)之间有关篮球的合作越来越多，这种合作可以追溯到爱尔兰的一家在线博彩公司和教皇。
Mr. Rodman, the former N.B.A. star who arrived in Pyongyang on Thursday to tutor North Korea’s best basketball players at Mr. Kim’s behest, is doing so under the sponsorship of Paddy Power, Europe’s leading Internet gambling business. The four-day trip comes after a deadly purge by Mr. Kim that has raised worries of a dangerous power struggle in the nuclear-armed and often unpredictable country.
周四，前NBA球星罗德曼抵达平壤，应金正恩的邀请指导朝鲜最优秀的篮球运动员。罗德曼这么做是得到了欧洲最大的互联网博彩公司Paddy Power的赞助。在罗德曼此次对朝鲜进行为期四天的访问之前，金正恩进行了一场血腥的清洗运动。这场清洗运动让外界担心，这个拥有核武器且通常让人捉摸不透的国家内部会爆发危险的权力斗争。
How Mr. Rodman and Paddy Power came to know each other is rooted in what gambling industry experts call the company’s culture of shrewd stunt marketing, offensive ads and the acceptance of wagers on almost anything, like the content of the final episode of “The Simpsons” or a president’s longevity in office.
赌博业专家认为，Paddy Power公司善于进行精明的噱头式营销，投放恶俗的广告，并且接受在几乎一切事物，例如《辛普森一家》(The Simpsons)最后一集的内容或是某个总统在位的时间上投注。罗德曼和Paddy Power公司的相识就源自于该公司的这种文化。
The relationship began in February, when Paddy Power took note of Mr. Rodman’s highly publicized first visit to North Korea and his declaration of friendship with Mr. Kim — just as company officials were strategizing to maximize betting profits on the successor to Pope Benedict XVI.
双方的关系始于2月。当时，Paddy Power公司注意到，罗德曼的第一次朝鲜之旅被广泛报道，而且罗德曼称自己和金正恩是朋友。当时，该公司的管理人员正在制定策略，以便让关于教皇本笃十六世(Benedict XVI)继任者的赌注为公司带来最大利润。
They recruited Mr. Rodman to encourage betting on a black pope, riding him around Rome in an ersatz popemobile, as speculation intensified that the cardinals closeted in the Sistine Chapel might pick Peter Turkson of Ghana to be the Roman Catholic Church’s first African pope.
当被关在西斯廷教堂(Sistine Chapel)的枢机主教可能会选择加纳的彼得·图克逊(Peter Turkson)出任罗马天主教的首位非洲教皇这一猜测甚嚣尘上时，为了鼓励人们把赌注押在黑人教皇身上，他们聘用了罗德曼，用一辆仿造的教皇专车载着他在整个罗马穿梭。
“We had a money-back special. Your money back if the pope’s black,” Rory Scott, a Paddy Power spokesman, said in a telephone interview. So when Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina, now known as Francis, was chosen, Mr. Scott said jokingly, “Our prayers were answered.”
“我们当时有一个特别的退钱计划。如果教皇是黑人，钱就退给投注人，”Paddy Power公司发言人罗里·斯科特(Rory Scott)在接受电话采访时说。因此，当阿根廷的豪尔赫·马里奥·贝尔格里奥(Jorge Mario Bergoglio)，也就是现在的方济各(Francis)被选中时，斯科特开玩笑地说，“我们的祈祷应验了。”
During their pope collaboration, Mr. Scott said, Mr. Rodman and Paddy Power executives devised the idea of setting up an international basketball tournament involving North Korea’s national team. Months later, when Mr. Rodman visited Mr. Kim a second time, the North Korean leader, an avowed basketball enthusiast, embraced the idea. He said they should hold the tournament in Pyongyang on his 31st birthday, Jan. 8.
斯科特说，在那次有关教皇选举的合作期间，罗德曼和Paddy Power公司的高管想出了举行一次有朝鲜国家队参加的国际篮球锦标赛这个主意。几个月后，罗德曼第二次拜访金正恩。公开承认自己是狂热的篮球爱好者的朝鲜领导人金正恩同意了这个想法。金正恩表示，他们应该在1月8日自己31岁生日那天在平壤举办这次锦标赛。
“So it all started when the pope resigned,” Mr. Scott said, speaking from Beijing as he was preparing to accompany Mr. Rodman to Pyongyang. “That had everything to do with it.”
“因此，这件事始于教皇辞职的时候，”身在北京的斯科特说，“后面的一切都和这件事有关。”当时他正在为陪同罗德曼前往朝鲜做准备。
Mr. Rodman’s publicist, Darren Prince of Prince Marketing Group of Los Angeles, did not return telephone calls or emails seeking comment about the trip, which comes as Mr. Kim, who leads one of the world’s most isolated and repressive governments, appears to be engaged in crushing political challenges to his supremacy. Mr. Kim’s uncle and onetime mentor, Jang Song-thaek, was executed last week after an abruptly announced trial and conviction for sedition.
罗德曼的宣传代理人、洛杉矶普林斯营销集团(Prince Marketing Group)的达伦·普林斯(Darren Prince)没有回复请他就此次朝鲜之行置评的电话和邮件。在罗德曼此次访问朝鲜之际，领导着全世界最封闭、最专制的政府之一的金正恩似乎正忙着粉碎自己至高无上的地位面临的政治挑战。上周，在朝鲜突然宣布对金正恩的姑父、从前的导师张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)进行了审判并判定其密谋不轨后，张成泽被处决。
In an interview on Thursday in Pyongyang with The Associated Press, the only American news agency with a bureau there, Mr. Rodman reiterated that his plans had not changed and that the trip could ease the longstanding estrangement between the United States and North Korea, which never declared a formal end to the Korean War six decades ago. He said the trip was an opportunity for others to see “that this country is actually not as bad as people project it to be in the media.”
周四，在平壤接受美联社(The Associated Press)采访时，罗德曼重申自己的计划没有变，而且此次朝鲜之旅可能会缓解美国与朝鲜之间由来已久的疏离。朝鲜从未宣布六十年前的朝鲜战争正式结束。罗德曼还表示，这次朝鲜之旅让人们有机会看到，“这个国家实际上并没有人们在媒体上说的那么糟糕。”美联社是唯一一个在朝鲜设有记者站的美国通讯社。
Mr. Rodman had said previously that after he conducted the training, he would return in January with an unspecified number of former N.B.A. players for Mr. Kim’s birthday tournament, which Paddy Power officials are calling “the Big Bang in Pyongyang.”
罗德曼之前说过，在完成培训后，他将于明年1月带领一些前NBA球星重返平壤，参加金正恩生日那天举行的锦标赛。他没有透露将与他同行的前NBA球星的人数。Paddy Power的高管把这次锦标赛称作“平壤的大爆炸”。
During Mr. Rodman’s first trip to North Korea, photos that quickly spread on the Internet showed him and Mr. Kim laughing together as they took in a basketball game. Mr. Rodman has proclaimed Mr. Kim “a friend for life” and “a very good guy.”
关于罗德曼对朝鲜的首次访问，迅速在互联网上传开的照片显示，在观看一场篮球赛时，罗德曼和金正恩两人一起大笑。罗德曼称，金正恩是“一生的朋友”，是“一个很好的人”。
Mr. Scott said Paddy Power was not taking wagers on the tournament, though he declined to discuss the commercial or financial aspects of the event. “We view this as a unique opportunity to put on a quite incredible historic event,” he said. “We view sport as a universal language.”
斯科特说，Paddy Power公司不会把这次锦标赛作为投注对象，不过他拒绝详细介绍这次比赛在商业和财务方面的情况。“我们认为，这是独一无二的机会，可以举办一场令人难以置信的历史性活动，”他说，“我们认为体育是世界共同的语言。”
State Department officials have repeatedly said that Mr. Rodman does not represent the United States government and is carrying no messages on its behalf. But privately, diplomats and North Korea specialists say, there is considerable interest in Washington about Mr. Rodman’s trip, partly because so little is known about Mr. Kim, the grandson of Kim Il-sung, North Korea’s revolutionary founder.
美国国务院(State Department)官员多次表示，罗德曼不代表美国政府，也没有代表美国传达任何讯息。但私下里，外交官和朝鲜问题专家表示，华盛顿非常关注罗德曼对朝鲜的访问，这在一定程度上是因为，外界对朝鲜革命创始人金日成(Kim Il-sung)之孙金正恩的了解太少了。
The trip and the Jan. 8 tournament also appear to have increased tourist interest in North Korea. Koryo Tours of Beijing, which specializes in trips to North Korea, even offered a deal on its website for a four-day excursion that included tickets to the tournament. “There will never be another trip quite like this one,” the offer states. “Anyone coming along with us will have a story to tell forever more.”
罗德曼的朝鲜之行以及将于1月8日举行的锦标赛似乎也增加了游客对朝鲜的兴趣。北京专营赴朝旅行的高丽旅行社(Koryo Tours)甚至在自己的网站上推出了一个为期四天的短途旅行项目，其中还包括了这次锦标赛的门票。“再也不会有像这次旅行这样的活动，”项目介绍说，“所有参加我们这个项目的人都会有一个可以讲给子孙后代的故事。”
Despite the price of almost $8,900, quadruple what a regular tour of that duration costs, the package sold out within days, said Hannah Barraclough, a Koryo tourism manager. Ms. Barraclough said Americans had not been dissuaded by their government’s warnings that citizens should avoid travel to North Korea because they could be subject to arbitrary arrest.
尽管该项目售价近8900美元（约合5.4万元人民币），是同样时间长短的普通旅行的四倍，但高丽旅行社的经理汉娜·巴勒克拉夫(Hannah Barraclough)说，整个套餐项目几天之内就卖光了。巴勒克拉夫说，美国政府警告美国公民应避免去朝鲜旅游，因为他们可能会遭到任意逮捕，但警告未能阻止美国人。
Kenneth Bae, a 44-year-old American, has been incarcerated for more than a year on charges of hostile acts because of his Christian missionary work. Merrill E. Newman, an 85-year-old Korean War veteran seized on Oct. 26 while on an official tour, was not released for a month. Mr. Newman’s wartime role included advising anti-Communist guerrillas, a group particularly reviled in the North.
44岁的美国人肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)因从事基督教传教活动而被判犯有反朝敌对罪，已入狱一年多了。10月26日，85岁的朝鲜战争老兵梅里尔·E·纽曼(Merrill E. Newman)在随正规旅行团旅游时被捕，被扣押了一个月。纽曼的战时职责中包括反共游击队顾问，朝鲜对这种游击队格外痛恨。
“It was awful what happened to him,” Ms. Barraclough said, referring to Mr. Newman, “but he went in not understanding that the Korean War was still going on. People were quite aware that it was an exceptional case.”
“他的遭遇太可怕了，” 巴勒克拉夫说到纽曼时说，“但他不明白，朝鲜战争依然在继续。人们很清楚这是一个特例。”
The publicity over Mr. Rodman’s visit could give Paddy Power some name-brand recognition as it is seeking to expand into the United States, where Internet gambling, considered a $33 billion market worldwide, is illegal in most states. The company has applied for licenses in Nevada and New Jersey, which along with Delaware began allowing Internet gambling this year.
有人认为，全球互联网博彩市场价值330亿美元，但在美国的大多数州，互联网博彩是违法的。在Paddy Power正试图扩张到美国之际，罗德曼此次朝鲜之旅的宣传可能会让公司获得一些品牌认可。Paddy Power公司已经在内华达州和新泽西州申请获得执照。这两个州以及特拉华州今年开始允许进行互联网博彩。
The company is famous for offensive advertising and wagers on delicate political issues, some with racial overtones. In 2008 it was widely criticized for offering a bet that President Obama would not finish his first term, which critics said was an invitation for an assassination attempt — an accusation the company denied.
这家公司因为恶俗的广告宣传和在敏感政治问题上的投注而闻名，其中某些还带有种族色彩。2008年，该公司因为开盘赌奥巴马不会顺利结束第一任期而广受批评，批评人士说，这是在鼓动刺杀奥巴马——该公司否认这种指责。
It has been repeatedly criticized in Britain over television advertisements deemed inappropriate. Last year, London’s Daily Telegraph listed Paddy Power’s most controversial ads, which included betting on the survival of two old women shown crossing a busy street, titled “Let’s make things more interesting,” and one showing Jesus and the apostles playing poker at the Last Supper.
在英国，这家公司因为一些不恰当的电视广告而多次受到批评。去年，英国《每日电讯报》(Daily Telegraph)刊登了Paddy Power一些最受争议的广告，包括赌两名老年女性穿过繁忙的马路时会不会被撞死，标题叫做“要玩就玩大的”。在另一则广告中，耶稣和使徒们在《最后的晚餐》中玩起了扑克牌。
Jocelyn Wood, a reporter and editor for Pokerfuse, a website about online poker news, said he would not be surprised if Paddy Power carried out “some form of ridiculous stunt” despite North Korea’s reputation for strictness.
追踪在线扑克牌游戏的网站Pokerfuse的记者兼编辑乔斯林·伍德(Jocelyn Wood)说，如果Paddy Power不顾朝鲜留给外界的刻板严厉的印象，搞出了“某种荒唐模式的噱头”，他不会感到惊讶。
“They may sign a nonaggression pact with Kim, or stage a leprechaun fight with the North Korean mascot, or something similar,” he said in an email. “Think like Borat — they’ll be doing something along those lines.”
他在一封邮件中说，“他们可能与金正恩签署一个互不侵犯条约，或者与朝鲜吉祥物上演一次矮妖精大战，或者类似的其他什么活动。想想波拉特(Borat)会怎么做——他们肯定会按这种思路采取行动的。”