ROME — Pope Francis already has distinguished himself from his predecessor with a more down-to-earth style. Now he is both unnerving the Vatican and delighting the faithful by picking up the telephone and spontaneously calling people, earning the nickname “the Cold Call Pope.”
罗马——教皇方济各(Pope Francis)以其更为朴实的作风把自己和前任区分了开来。他会随手抄起电话主动打给他人，如今，这个让梵蒂冈方面感到不安但却让信众们欣喜的举动，为他赢得了一个绰号：“陌生来电教皇”(Cold Call Pope)。
This month, he called to comfort a pregnant Italian woman whose married boyfriend had unsuccessfully pressured her to have an abortion. The woman, who is divorced and will be a single mother, wrote to the pope, fearing she had fallen afoul of the church. Not knowing the correct address, she marked the envelope “Holy Father Pope Francis, Vatican City, Rome.” The pope offered to personally baptize the baby when it is born next year, according to an account in La Stampa, a newspaper in Turin.
本月，他致电安慰了一个怀着身孕的意大利女人，她男友是有妇之夫，逼迫她做流产，但并未得逞。这个离过婚且即将成为单身母亲的女人，担心自己的行为违反了教会的规定，于是给教皇写了封信。她不知道确切地址，只好在信封上标明“罗马，梵蒂冈城，圣父教皇方济各”。都灵《新闻报》(La Stampa)的一篇报道称，教皇表示，婴儿明年出生时，他会亲自为其施洗。
In August, Francis phoned a woman in Argentina who had been raped by a police officer. The pope told her that she was not alone and that she should have faith in the justice system, according to an Argentine television news report rebroadcast in Italy.
8月，方济各给一位遭到警察强奸的阿根廷女人打了电话。阿根廷的一条电视新闻称，教皇告诉她，她不是孤单一人，而且应该信任司法体系。意大利的电视台转播了这条新闻。
On Aug. 7, Michele Ferri of Pesaro, Italy, answered his phone and was startled to hear, “Hello, Michele, it’s Pope Francis.” Mr. Ferri said in a telephone interview he had thought it was a joke. “But then he spoke about the letter that I’d written, a letter I hadn’t told anyone about, not even my mother or my wife, and I knew that it was him,” he said.
8月7日，意大利佩萨罗的米歇尔·法瑞(Michele Ferri)接起电话，吃惊地听到对方说，“你好，米歇尔，我是教皇方济各。”法瑞接受电话采访时表示，他原本以为那是个玩笑。“但他接着谈到了我写的信，我没跟任何提过那封信，甚至对母亲和妻子都没提过，于是我知道真的是他。”
Mr. Ferri had written the pope, he said, after a “series of tragedies in the family,” most recently the killing of his brother in a gas station robbery in early June. “The pope said that the letter had made him cry,” he said.
法瑞称，他经历了“一系列家庭悲剧”，最近一次发生在6月初，他的兄弟在一个加油站抢劫案中被杀，此后，他给教皇写了封信。他说，“教皇说那封信让他流泪了。”
The 10-minute phone call “offered comfort and hope, to better face life without my brother,” he said. “Of course the pain remains, but it was a great emotion to hear his voice.” Later in August, Mr. Ferri said, the pope also called his mother to offer words of support.
那通长达10分钟的电话“带来了安慰和希望，让我可以更好地面对失去兄弟以后的生活”，他说。“当然，伤痛还在，但听到他的声音让我心潮澎湃。”法瑞还说，后来在8月，教皇还给他妈妈打了电话，送上了表示支持的话语。
While the papal phoning has been widely greeted with delight, it is also proving somewhat perilous, with unsubstantiated news reports of calls supposedly made by Francis — including one last week to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, and another to a young distraught French gay man. The Vatican denied that the pope had made those calls. Some Vatican officials are expressing concern that individuals are impersonating Francis to advance political or ideological agendas.
教皇致电他人的举动，受到了广泛而热切的欢迎，但这么做在某种程度上也是有风险的。未经证实的新闻报道提及了某些据称是由教皇拨出的电话——其中一通是上星期打给叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的，还有一通打给了法国一位悲痛欲绝的同性恋男青年。梵蒂冈方面否认教皇打过这些电话。梵蒂冈一些官员表达了担忧，称有人为了推进政治或意识形态议程，冒充了方济各。
Other Vatican analysts fear that the advent of papal phone calls could spawn disillusion among those not receiving a call.
其他梵蒂冈分析人士担心的是，“教皇来电”的出现，会让没接到电话的人产生幻灭感。
“There’s an innumerable number of people who have suffered violence or injustice who might write to the pope for a word of comfort, and it’s clear that he can’t answer all of them,” said Alberto Melloni, a Vatican historian and the director of the John XXIII Foundation for Religious Studies in Bologna, a liberal Catholic research institute. “They could think, ‘See, I’m feeling awful and the pope didn’t even call.’ ”
“遭受过暴力和不公的人不计其数，他们可能会给教皇写信寻求只言片语的安慰，但他显然无法对所有人给予回应，”梵蒂冈历史专家阿尔贝托·梅洛尼(Alberto Melloni)说。“他们会想，‘看吧，我感觉这么糟糕，可教皇甚至连电话都不打一个。’ ”梅洛尼在位于博洛尼亚的自由派天主教研究机构若望二十三世宗教学基金会(John XXIII Foundation for Religious Science)担任会长。
On Thursday the Argentine newspaper Clarín reported that Francis had spoken by phone with Mr. Assad in an effort to prevent a military confrontation with the United States. The Vatican’s spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, emphatically denied the report.
阿根廷《号角报》(Clarín)周四报道称，方济各曾打电话与阿萨德进行了交谈，试图劝阻后者与美国进行军事对抗。梵蒂冈发言人费德里科·隆巴尔迪神父(Rev. Federico Lombardi)断然否认了这一报道。
Then on Friday, Mr. Lombardi denied newspaper reports in France that the pope had called a young Catholic gay man in Toulouse to reassure him. The man, Christopher Trutino, a 25-year-old salesclerk, had told a local paper, La Dépêche du Midi, that after he wrote a letter to the pope explaining his struggles to reconcile his sexuality and faith, Francis phoned him to counsel him. “Your homosexuality, it doesn’t matter,” he recalled the pope saying. “One way or another, we are all children of God.”
接着，隆巴尔迪在周五否认了法国报纸上的一些报道。报道称，教皇给图卢兹一位信奉天主教的同性恋男青年打电话安慰他。该男子名叫克里斯托弗·特鲁提诺(Christopher Trutino)，今年25岁，是一名销售员。他告诉当地媒体《南部快报》(La Dépêche du Midi)，他给教皇写了封信，讲述了自己为了在性取向和信仰之间寻求和解而经历的挣扎，随后方济各打来电话加以劝解。“你是同性恋，这不要紧，”他回忆教皇说过的话，“无论如何，我们都是上帝的子民。”
Some on Twitter and elsewhere on the Internet greeted reports of the call as a welcome change in the doctrinal rigidity of the church on the issue of homosexuality. But the Vatican’s denial of the reports fanned speculation that the call had been a hoax, while also prompting some to question whether the Vatican was dissembling to distance itself from a delicate topic.
有人在Twitter上或其他网站上，对此次通话的相关报道大加称赞，将其视为保守刻板的教会在同性恋议题上的可喜转变。但梵蒂冈方面对报道的否认，引发了这通电话不过是一场骗局的揣测；因此有人也开始怀疑，梵蒂冈是否在掩饰真相，以便与敏感话题保持距离。
Mr. Trutino is avoiding the media, and could not be reached for comment on Monday. But Cyril Doumergue, the journalist from La Dépêche du Midi who interviewed him, said he had sounded authentic and genuinely moved. But he said he believed Mr. Trutino may have been deceived. He said the young man told the newspaper that during the call — which he said began at 2 p.m. — the pope explained that he would later be receiving King Abdullah II of Jordan. But Ansa, the Italian news agency, said the king arrived at 11 a.m. and the meeting was over by 12:06 p.m.
特鲁提诺目前正在躲避媒体，我们周一未能联络到他来发表评论。但采访过他的《南部快报》记者西里尔·杜梅格(Cyril Doumergue)说，听上去他的话是可信的，而且他似乎真的深受感动。不过杜梅格表示，特鲁提诺的确有可能被人骗了。他说这个年轻人告诉该报，通话期间——据其表示始于下午2点——教皇称自己晚些时候将接见约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世(Abdullah II)。但意大利安莎通讯社(Ansa)报道，约旦国王于上午11点抵达，会面在12:06就结束了。
“Christopher did not record the conversation, so it is impossible to know 100 percent what happened,” Mr. Doumergue said.
杜梅格说，“克里斯托弗并未对通话进行录音，所以我们无法百分之百地知道发生了什么。”
Father Lombardi said that it was the pope’s prerogative to phone whomever he chose and that the Vatican would not comment on every reported phone call. But he said he would intervene when rumors or hoax calls dealt with issues of international relevance like Syria or could have important doctrinal implications.
隆巴尔迪神父表示，教皇有权给他选择的任何人打电话，梵蒂冈方面不会对媒体上报道的每一通电话都发表评论。但他说，当谣言或骗局涉及诸如叙利亚之类具有国际影响的问题，或者可能对教义产生重要影响时，他就会介入发表评论。