JERUSALEM — Pope Francis inserted himself directly into the collapsed Middle East peace process on Sunday, issuing an invitation to host the Israeli and Palestinian presidents for a prayer summit meeting at his apartment in the Vatican, in an overture that has again underscored the broad ambitions of his papacy.
耶路撒冷——周日，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)直接介入已经崩溃的中东和平进程，邀请以色列和巴勒斯坦总统参加在他梵蒂冈住所举行的祈祷峰会，这一提议再次突显了教皇的宏伟抱负。
Francis took the unexpected step in Bethlehem, where he became the first pontiff ever to fly directly into the West Bank and to refer to the Israeli-occupied territory as the “State of Palestine.”
方济各是在伯利恒采取前述惊人举措的，抵达那里之后，他成为了有史以来第一个乘飞机直接进入约旦河西岸、将那片以色列所占领土称为“巴勒斯坦国”的教皇。
After describing the overall situation between Israel and the Palestinians as “increasingly unacceptable,” the pope made a dramatic, unscheduled stop at Israel’s contentious concrete barrier separating Bethlehem from Jerusalem, where he prayed and touched his head against the graffiti-covered wall.
教皇称巴以之间的总体局势“越来越令人无法接受”，之后突如其来地临时决定在以色列的争议性水泥围墙停留，在那里进行了祈祷，并用头触碰布满涂鸦的墙壁。那道水泥围墙将伯利恒与耶路撒冷分隔开来。
“There is a need to intensify efforts and initiatives aimed at creating the conditions for a stable peace based on justice, on the recognition of rights for every individual, and on mutual security,” Francis said. Peace “must resolutely be pursued, even if each side has to make certain sacrifices.”
“有必要加强相关举措，以便创造条件，在公正、承认所有个体权利及共同安全的基础上实现持久和平，”方济各说。“必须坚定地追求和平，即便双方都要做出一定的牺牲。”
Presidents Shimon Peres of Israel and Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority accepted the pope’s invitation to pray together; Mr. Abbas’s spokesman said the meeting would take place June 6.
以色列总统希蒙·佩雷斯(Shimon Peres)和巴勒斯坦民族权力机构(Palestinian Authority)主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)接受了教皇关于共同祈祷的邀请。阿巴斯的发言人表示，峰会将于6月6日举行。
Though the meeting is likely to be more symbolic than substantive — Israel’s presidency is ceremonial and Mr. Peres leaves office soon — it could have atmospheric significance for a peace process that has all but completely broken down.
虽然峰会的象征意义可能大于实际意义——以色列总统属于礼仪性职位，且佩雷斯即将离任——但对于几乎完全破裂的和平进程来说，它仍有可能发挥营造氛围的作用。
More broadly, Pope Francis’ actions on Sunday posed a striking example of how, barely a year into his papacy, he is seeking to reassert the Vatican’s ancient role as an arbiter of international diplomacy.
更广泛地说，教皇方济各周日的举动向人们提供了一个引人注目的事例，展示了就职不到一年的他如何努力恢复梵蒂冈的古老角色——国际外交的仲裁人。
“If you look around the world, there are very few political leaders who are relatively untainted,” said Philip Jenkins, a history professor who teaches at the Institute for Studies of Religion at Baylor University. “People want to believe there is somebody good and charismatic, and a good authority figure, out there.”
“放眼世界，几乎不存在相对完美的政治领导人，”贝勒大学(Baylor University)宗教研究所(Institute for Studies of Religion)历史教授菲利普·詹金斯(Philip Jenkins)说。“人们想要相信，世上有一个充满魅力的高尚领袖，一个高尚的权威人物。”
But plunging into Middle East politics can be especially perilous. In a region where religious divisions overlay the political impasse, Francis’ prayer summit “is taking the negotiations to another level — a meeting before God,” said the Rev. Jamal Khadar, head of a West Bank seminary and a spokesman for the pope’s visit. The idea, he added, is to “make religion part of trying to find a solution instead of it being seen as a negative and a complication.”
然而，插手中东政治可能会带来极大的风险。约旦河西岸某神学院院长、方济各此次访问的发言人贾迈勒·赫达尔神父(Rev. Jamal Khadar)表示，在这个宗教分裂与政治僵局叠加的地区，方济各的祈祷峰会“将会把相关谈判推向另一个层面——一场在上帝面前举行的会议。”他还表示，这个想法的目的是“使宗教成为努力寻求解决办法的进程的一部分，而不是被人视为使情况更加复杂的负面因素”。
Oded Ben Hur, a former Israeli ambassador to the Holy See, said by making a personal invitation for a prayer summit meeting, Francis eschewed Vatican protocol and tradition while showing atypical boldness. Most pontiffs, he said, “don’t rock the boat.”
前以色列驻圣座(Holy See)大使奥德特·本胡尔(Oded Ben Hur)表示，方济各以个人名义邀请双方参加祈祷峰会，由此避开了梵蒂冈的礼仪与惯例，展示了不同寻常的魄力。他表示，大多数教皇都“不会打破现状”。
“This is different,” he added. “It’s a balance, but the fact is, there is a move somewhere. He’s not conventional in that sense. When he thinks something, he expresses it.”
“这次的事情不同，”他说。“这是一种平衡，但事实是，其中也包含着一个举措。从这个意义上说，他没有墨守成规。有了想法的时候，他就会表达出来。”
Sunday was the second of Francis’s three-day sojourn through the Holy Land, a trip with a carefully designed itinerary. In a delicate diplomatic dance, the pope helicoptered from Bethlehem to Tel Aviv for an official head-of-state welcome to Israel, then back to Jerusalem for an ecumenical dinner with the Orthodox Patriarch of Constantinople.
周日是方济各圣地三日行的第二天，此次访问的行程经过精心的设计。教皇乘坐直升机从伯利恒前往特拉维夫，在以色列接受了国家元首级别的欢迎礼遇，然后飞回耶路撒冷，与君士坦丁堡东正教牧首共进晚餐，完成了一段精妙的外交之舞。
That meeting, commemorating the 50th anniversary of a historic Jerusalem handshake that was the first contact between the world’s two largest churches in 500 years, was the stated purpose of the trip. But it was overshadowed by the pope’s pointed wading into the tensions between Israelis and Palestinians.
教皇此行的官方目的便是前述会晤，会晤的目的是纪念教皇对耶路撒冷展开历史性首访50周年，那次首访是全球两个最大教会在过去500年里的首次接触。不过，教皇直接插手干预巴以紧张局势的做法，盖过了此次会晤的风头。
In Bethlehem, where Francis spent six hours, he met Mr. Abbas as a peer, giving the Palestinians the kind of high-profile boost they had been seeking, and spotlighting the Vatican’s support for the 2012 United Nations resolution that upgraded their status to observer state.
方济各在伯利恒停留了六个小时，其间以平等身份会见了阿巴斯，让巴勒斯坦人获得了梦寐以求的高规格认同，并且突显了梵蒂冈对联合国(United Nations)2012年决议的支持，该决议把巴勒斯坦提升到了联合国观察员国的地位。
He led a spirited Mass in a crowded Manger Square, which was bedecked with photomontages blending Christian iconography with images of Palestinians’ difficult daily reality. Then he had lunch with families suffering particular hardships under Israel’s occupation, and was serenaded by scores of children from the nearby Dheisheh Refugee Camp, home to some 12,000 people exiled from former family homes since the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.
在拥挤的马槽广场，教皇主持了一场群情激奋的弥撒，广场上装饰着蒙太奇照片，其中混合了天主教人物的肖像和巴勒斯坦人艰难度日的现实照片。而后，他和以色列占领区一些尤为困苦的家庭共进了午餐，大批儿童向教皇唱诵了赞歌，他们来自附近的代赫舍难民营(Dheisheh Refugee Camp)。这座难民营收留了约1.2万人，他们都是1948年巴以战争爆发后从家乡流亡到这里的。
But perhaps the defining image of the trip was the pope’s surprise exit from his open-topped vehicle to pray at a section of the concrete barrier that snakes along and through the West Bank. Palestinians loathe the barrier — Mr. Abbas has called it “monstrous” — and Israel insists it is essential to its security. Francis touched his forehead to the wall near where someone had spray-painted, “Pope, we need some 1 to speak about justice.”
不过，此行最经典的画面也许是教皇出人意料地走下敞篷车，到蜿蜒穿过约旦河西岸地区的水泥围墙跟前祈祷。巴勒斯坦人憎恶这道围墙——阿巴斯称它“庞然可怖”——以色列人则坚称，它对以色列人的安全至关重要。方济各用额头触碰了围墙，有人在那附近喷涂了一行字，“教皇，我们需要一个仗义执言的人。”
Welcomed to Tel Aviv by President Peres and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Francis reiterated his call for a “sovereign homeland” for Palestinians “with freedom of movement.”
在特拉维夫，方济各受到了以色列总统佩雷斯和总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)的欢迎，他重申了自己的倡议，要求为巴勒斯坦人“建立一个容许他们自由迁徙的主权家园”。
“I implore those in positions of responsibility to leave no stone unturned in the search for equitable solutions to complex problems,” he said. “The path of dialogue, reconciliation and peace must constantly be taken up anew, courageously and tirelessly.”
他说，“我恳请那些肩负职责的人不遗余力，为种种复杂问题寻找公平的解决方案。我们必须一往无前、不屈不挠，不断为对话、和解与和平开辟新的路径。”
Mr. Netanyahu said at the ceremony, “Our hand is outstretched in peace to whoever wants to live with us in peace,” but also referred to Jerusalem as the Israel’s “eternal capital, the heart of our faith,” anathema to Palestinians’ aspirations to have East Jerusalem as the capital of their future state.
内塔尼亚胡在欢迎仪式上表示，“我们愿向任何愿意和我们和平共处的人伸出和平之手。”不过，他还说，耶路撒冷是以色列“永久的首都，是我们信仰的核心。”这话无异于一盆凉水，浇灭了巴勒斯坦人将东耶路撒冷作为未来国都的愿望。
The prime minister’s spokesman declined to say whether Mr. Netanyahu was aware of negotiations underway for the Vatican prayer summit, or whether he approved.
总理的发言人拒绝说明内塔尼亚胡是否听说了为筹备梵蒂冈祈祷峰会而正在进行的谈判，以及他是否赞成此事。
The pope’s symbolic gestures on Sunday sketched  an implicit indictment of international peacemaking efforts by the so-called Quartet and, most recently, Secretary of State John Kerry.
教皇周日做出的象征性姿态相当于一份含蓄的指责，对象则是所谓“四重奏”会议推动的国际维和举措，以及美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)最近的努力。
The State Department was not involved in arranging the prayer summit, but its spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said on Sunday that Secretary Kerry “is a great admirer of Pope Francis’ leadership, and welcomes his spiritual initiative to promote Israeli-Palestinian peace through prayer and his call for courageous efforts to achieve a two-state solution.”
美国国务院没有参与祈祷峰会的相关安排，但国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在周日表示，国务卿克里“极其赞赏教皇方济各的领导力，并且欢迎教皇关于以祈祷推动巴以和平的宗教倡议，也欢迎教皇关于以勇敢行动达成‘两个国家’解决方案的呼吁。”