VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis called Thursday for a radical transformation of politics, economics and individual lifestyles to confront environmental degradation and climate change, blending a biting critique of consumerism and irresponsible development with a plea for swift and unified global action.
梵蒂冈城——教皇方济各(Pope Francis)周四呼吁，对政治、经济和个人生活方式进行根本性变革，以应对环境恶化和气候变化，他将对消费主义和不负责任的发展模式的尖锐批评同采取迅速且统一的全球行动的请求结合在了一起。
The vision that Francis outlined in a 184-page papal encyclical is sweeping in ambition and scope: He described relentless exploitation and destruction of the environment and said apathy, the reckless pursuit of profits, excessive faith in technology and political shortsightedness were to blame.
方济各在184页的教皇通谕中概述的愿景在其雄心程度和覆盖范围上都相当可观。他描述了对环境无情的剥削和破坏，并表示冷漠、对利润的鲁莽追求、对科技的过度信心和政治短视要对此负主要责任。
The most vulnerable victims, he declared, are the world’s poorest people, who are being dislocated and disregarded.
他宣称最脆弱的受害者是世界上最贫穷的人，他们的生活被扰乱并被忽视。
Francis, the first pope from the developing world, used the encyclical — titled “Laudato Si’,” or “Praise Be to You” — to highlight the crisis posed by climate change. He placed most of the blame on fossil fuels and human activity, while warning of an “unprecedented destruction of ecosystems, with serious consequence for all of us” if corrective action is not taken swiftly. Developed, industrialized countries were mostly responsible, he said, and are obligated to help poorer nations confront the crisis.
方济各是第一位来自发展中世界的教皇，他用题为“Laudato Si”（赞美你）的通谕来突出气候变化所带来的危机。他把大部分的责任归结于化石燃料和人类活动，同时警告称，如果不采取迅速的纠正行动，“生态系统将蒙受前所未有的破坏，并对我们所有人造成严重后果”。发达的工业化国家要负主要负责，他说，这些国家有责任帮助贫穷国家应对危机。
“Climate change is a global problem with grave implications: environmental, social, economic, political and for the distribution of goods,” he wrote. “It represents one of the principal challenges facing humanity in our day.”
“气候变化是可能带来严重后果的一个全球性问题，其影响涉及环境，社会，经济，政治和物品的分配，”他写道。 “它代表了我们这个时代人类所面临的主要挑战之一。”
The Vatican released the encyclical at noon on Thursday, three days after an Italian magazine posted a leaked draft online, to the fury of Vatican officials. The breach led to speculation that opponents of Francis inside the Vatican wanted to embarrass him by undermining the release.
梵蒂冈在周四上午公布了通谕，让梵蒂冈官员愤怒的是，三天前一家意大利杂志就在网上发布了泄漏出来的草稿。此次泄漏事件导致人们猜测，梵蒂冈内部的方济各反对者希望通过破坏通谕公布来让他难堪。
Even so, religious figures, environmentalists, scientists, executives and elected officials around the world awaited the official release, and scheduled news conferences or issued statements afterward. News media interest was enormous, in part because of Francis’ global popularity, but also because of the intriguing coalition he is proposing between faith and science.
即便如此，世界各地的宗教人士、环保人士、科学家、高管和民选官员都对通谕的正式发布翘首以盼，并在之后安排了新闻发布会或发表了声明。新闻媒体对此十分关注，部分原因是方济各在全球的受欢迎度，但也是因他提出的信仰和科学之间的有趣联盟。
Governments are now developing domestic climate-change plans to prepare for a United Nations summit on the issue in Paris in December. The meeting’s goal is to achieve a sweeping accord in which every nation would commit to new policies to limit greenhouse-gas emissions. Many governments have yet to present plans, including major emitters like Brazil, which has a large Catholic population. The encyclical is seen as an unsubtle nudge for action.
目前各国政府正在为定于12月在巴黎举行的联合国气候大会做准备，制定各自的国内排放计划。这次会议的目标是让所有国家在实施限制温室气体排放的新政策上达成一个全面协议。很多国家还没提交自己的计划，包括一些温室气体排放大国，如有大量天主教信徒的巴西。这份教皇通谕被看成较为直白的敦促之举，要各国展开行动。
“It gives a lot of cover to political and economic leaders in those countries, as they make decisions on climate change policy,” said Timothy Wirth, vice chairman of the United Nations Foundation.
联合国基金会(United Nations Foundation)副主席蒂莫西·维尔特(Timothy Wirth)表示，“在制定气候变化政策上，这份通谕给这些国家的政治和经济领导人提供了很多由头。”
Catholic theologians say the overarching theme of the encyclical is “integral ecology,” which links care for the environment with a notion already well developed in Catholic teaching: that economic development, to be morally good and just, must take into account people’s need for things like freedom, education and meaningful work.
天主教神学家们表示，贯穿这份通谕的主题是“生态的不可或缺”，它将人们对环境的关心和天主教布道中一个已经被普遍接受的观念结合起来：即经济发展要想在道德层面上变得合理正当，它必须顾及到人们的其他需求，如自由、教育和有意义的工作。
“The basic idea is, in order to love God, you have to love your fellow human beings, and you have to love and care for the rest of creation,” said Vincent Miller, who holds a chair in Catholic theology and culture at the University of Dayton, a Catholic college in Ohio. “It gives Francis a very traditional basis to argue for the inclusion of environmental concern at the center of Christian faith.”
“这里的基本观念是，为了爱上帝，你必须爱自己的同类，以及热爱和关心上帝其他的造物。这一观念为教皇方济各论证关心环境也是基督教信仰的核心观念打下了非常传统的根基，”文森特·米勒(Vincent Miller)说，他是俄亥俄州的天主教高校戴顿大学(University of Dayton)的天主教神学与文化教授。
He added: “Critics will say the church can’t teach policy, the church can’t teach politics. And Francis is saying, ‘No, these things are at the core of the church’s teaching.’ ”
他还说，“批评者会说教堂不能讲授政策，不能讨论政治。而方济各说，‘不，这些正是教堂布道的中心内容。’”
Francis tapped a wide variety of sources in his encyclical, partly to underscore the universality of his message. He cited passages from his two papal predecessors, John Paul II and Benedict XVI, and drew prominently from a religious ally, Patriarch Bartholomew I of Constantinople, leader of the world’s Eastern Orthodox Christians. He also cited a Sufi Muslim mystic, Ali al-Khawas.
教皇方济各在这份通谕中引述甚广，部分原因是为强调他要传达的信息的普遍性。他援引了两位前任教皇约翰·保罗二世(John Paul II)和本尼迪克特十六世(Benedict XVI)之前的讲话，列举了其宗教盟友、东正教全球领袖君士坦丁堡大牧首巴塞洛缪一世(Patriarch Bartholomew I)的不少言论，此外还引用了一名苏菲派穆斯林(Sufi Muslim)神秘主义者阿里·阿尔-卡瓦斯(Ali al-Khawas)的观点。
Central to Francis’ theme is the link between poverty and the planet’s fragility. The pope rejected the belief that technology and “current economics” would solve environmental problems, or “that the problems of global hunger and poverty will be resolved simply by market growth.”
教皇方济各的核心主旨是将贫穷和这个星球的脆弱之处联系起来。教皇反对技术和“当前的经济”能解决环境问题的观点，也不认同“全球的饥饿和贫穷问题单单依靠市场发展就可迎刃而解”。
“A huge indictment I see in this encyclical is that people have lost their sense of ultimate and proper goals of technology and economics,” said Christiana Z. Peppard, an assistant professor of theology, science and ethics at Fordham University in New York. “We are focused on short-term, consumerist patterns.”
“这份通谕强烈谴责人们失去了对科技和经济发展的终极和正确目标的认知，”纽约福特汉姆大学(Fordham University)神学、科学和伦理学助理教授克里斯蒂安娜·Z·佩帕德(Christiana Z. Peppard)说道。“我们的注意力都集中于短期发展和消费主义模式。”