HAVANA — Standing in the symbolic heart of political Cuba, Pope Francis on Sunday began his first full day in the island nation with an outdoor Mass at Revolution Plaza attended by President Raúl Castro and other leaders, and later met with the country's former leader, Fidel Castro.
哈瓦那——周日，站在具有象征意义的古巴政治中心，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)用在革命广场上举行的弥撒，开始了在这个岛国的一天。古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)和其他一些领导人参加了弥撒。晚些时候，教皇还会见了该国前领导人菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)。
At Revolution Plaza, Francis arrived at about 8:30 a.m. in his familiar open-air popemobile, which moved through the crowd of thousands of people before delivering him to a covered stage for the service. Francis praised the vibrancy of the Cuban people and urged them to pursue a Christian model of selfless service.
革命广场上聚集了成千上万的人。早上大约8点30分，那辆熟悉的敞篷教宗座驾穿过人群，把教皇送到主持弥撒用的一个有顶篷的高台边。方济各赞扬了古巴公众的活力，并鼓励他们追求一种无私奉献的基督徒典范。
“Whatever wishes to be great must serve others, not be served by others,” Francis said during his homily.
“无论是谁，如果希望伟大则必须服务于他人，而非接受他人的服务，”方济各在布道时说。
The scene blended faith, politics and revolution: Huge portraits of two revolutionary heroes, Che Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos, overlook the square, which also had large banners of Jesus and Mother Teresa. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, president of Francis' native Argentina, also was in attendance.
这一幕将信仰、政治和革命融为了一体：两位革命英雄切·格瓦拉(Che Guevara)和卡米洛·西恩富戈斯(Camilo Cienfuegos)的巨幅画像俯视着广场，同时又有特蕾莎修女(Mother Teresa)和耶稣的大型横幅。方济各的祖国阿根廷的总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德基什内尔(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)也在现场。
In such a political setting, Francis made his most directly political remarks not about Cuba but on the Colombia peace talks underway here in Havana. Francis urged negotiators for the Colombian government and the FARC rebels to find a solution and end the decades-old conflict in their country.
在这样具有政治色彩的背景下，方济各发表的最直接的政治言论不是关于古巴，而是当下正在哈瓦那举行的哥伦比亚和平谈判。他敦促哥伦比亚政府和哥伦比亚革命武装力量(Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia)的谈判代表找到解决方案，结束该国持续了数十年的冲突。
“We do not have the right to allow ourselves yet another failure on this path of peace and reconciliation,” Francis said at the end of the Mass.
“我们无权让自己在通往和平与和解的道路上再失败一次，”方济各在弥撒结束时说。
Afterward, the pope went to the home of Fidel Castro for what was described as informal visit with the leader of Cuba's 1959 revolution. A papal spokesman said that Francis gave Fidel Castro a copy of his encyclical on the environment, “Laudato Si',” and several books. The meeting lasted about 40 minutes.
之后，教皇去了古巴1959年革命的领导人菲德尔·卡斯特罗的家里。此行被称作是一次非正式的拜访。教皇的发言人表示，方济各送给菲德尔·卡斯特罗一份他就环境问题发表的教皇通谕的副本，题为《愿上主受赞颂》(Laudato Si)，还有几本书。会面持续了大约40分钟。
A spectrum of Cubans, from the devout to the secular, turned out to see the Mass, filling the entire plaza.
从虔诚的教徒到世俗百姓，古巴各阶层人士都前来望弥撒，把整个广场挤得满满的。