ROME — Pope Francis had quite a 78th birthday. The pontiff began Wednesday with prayers and a birthday celebration with tango dancers near St. Peter’s Square. His day ended with a historic diplomatic breakthrough between Cuba and the United States — and the disclosure that the Argentine pope played a key role as broker.
罗马——教皇方济各(Pope Francis)过了一个很棒的78岁生日。周三，他先是祷告，接着又在圣彼得广场(St. Peter’s Square)附近与跳探戈的舞者庆祝生日。最后，古巴和美国又实现了历史性的外交突破，而这名来自阿根廷的教皇在其中扮演了中间人的角色。
Francis is being credited for helping bridge the divide by first sending letters to President Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba, and then having the Vatican host a diplomatic meeting between the two sides in October.
方济各先是向美国总统奥巴马和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)致信，又在今年10月，让双方在梵蒂冈举行外交会晤。因此方济各收获了帮助弥合分歧的赞誉。
“The Holy Father wishes to express his warm congratulations for the historic decision,” Francis said in a statement issued Wednesday night by the Vatican.
“圣父希望就这一历史性的决定致以衷心的祝贺，”方济各在梵蒂冈周三晚间发布的一则声明中说道。
Vatican spokesmen declined to provide any details about Francis’s letters, other than that he encouraged the two sides to resolve “humanitarian questions”; resolve the release of political prisoners, including an American held by Cuba, Alan P. Gross; and “initiate a new phase in relations.”
梵蒂冈的发言人拒绝透露方济各信件中的任何细节，只是说他鼓励双方解决“人道主义问题”；解决释放政治犯的问题，包括古巴关押的美国人艾伦·P·格罗斯(Alan P. Gross)；并在两国关系中“开启新阶段”。
The Vatican’s most senior official after the pope, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the secretary of state, moderated the October meeting after the two countries sought out the Vatican as a trusted broker near the conclusion of their negotiations.
梵蒂冈仅次于教皇的最高官员，担任国务卿的伯多禄·帕罗林枢机主教(Cardinal Pietro Parolin)主持了10月的会晤。这场会谈之前，两国在谈判趋于结束时，邀请梵蒂冈充当值得信任的中间人。
For Francis, the breakthrough on Wednesday burnished his efforts to reposition the Vatican as a broker in global diplomacy. He has already waded into Middle East protests, hosting a prayer summit meeting between the Israeli and Palestinian presidents that bore few tangible results. Soon afterward, Israel began its military assault against Hamas, the Palestinian militant group, in Gaza.
对于方济各来说，周三的突破再次展示了他让梵蒂冈重新成为全球外交中间人的努力。此前，他已经介入过中东的示威活动，并举行了一场以色列和巴勒斯坦总统共同参加的祷告峰会，不过没有产生什么切实效果。不久以后，以色列就向加沙地带的巴勒斯坦武装组织哈马斯(Hamas)发起了军事袭击。
But Francis has quickly become one of the world’s leading figures, and his role in the United States-Cuba breakthrough undoubtedly is tied to his status as the first Latin American pope of the Roman Catholic Church.
然而方济各很快就成了一名领导世界的人物，他在美国与古巴关系的突破中所扮演的角色，毫无疑问与他罗马天主教会(Roman Catholic Church)首位来自拉丁美洲的教皇的身份存在关联。
“He knows the Cuban situation by heart,” said Gianni La Bella, a professor of contemporary history and an expert in Latin American Catholicism, as well as a member of the Community of Sant’Egidio, a liberal Catholic group active in international affairs. “He visited when he was a cardinal and has a strong relationship with the archbishop of Havana, who is obviously a strategic player in this.”
“他对古巴的局势谙熟于心，”当代史教授、研究拉丁美洲天主教的专家加尼·拉贝拉(Gianni La Bella)说。“他在担任枢机主教时就访问过古巴，而且与哈瓦那大主教有很好的关系，后者在其中显然是一个战略性的角色。”拉贝拉也是圣艾智德团体(Community of Sant’Egidio)的成员，这个自由派天主教团体积极参与国际事务。
In April, the Vatican and Cuba celebrated 79 years of diplomatic relations as they jointly staged a photography exhibition at a church in Rome. Although the Vatican has had problems with Havana, it steadfastly opposes the American embargo and has kept diplomatic lines open.
今年4月，为了庆祝梵蒂冈与古巴建交79周年，双方共同在罗马的一所教堂举办了一场摄影展。尽管梵蒂冈一直与哈瓦那存在摩擦，但一贯坚定地反对美国的封锁，并且保持着外交途径的畅通。
Fidel Castro visited the Vatican in 1996 and met with Pope John Paul II. Two years later, John Paul visited Cuba, where he criticized the embargo as causing hardship for ordinary people and called for it to be rescinded. His successor, Pope Benedict XVI, also visited Cuba, in 2012.
菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)曾在1996年访问梵蒂冈，并与教皇约翰·保罗二世(John Paul II)会晤。两年后，约翰·保罗访问古巴，在那里批评了封锁给普通人带去的困难，并呼吁取消封锁。他的继任者本笃十六世(Benedict XVI)也曾在2012年访问古巴。
“I was in Cuba for almost two years, and I understand what this news means to the island,” said Msgr. Angelo Becciu, once the Vatican’s ambassador to Cuba. “It opens new scenarios and gives great hope to all Cuban people. The cease of the embargo will encourage and revitalize the island’s perspectives, as well as its economy.”
“我在古巴待过近两年时间，我理解这个消息对这座岛屿意味着什么，”曾任梵蒂冈驻古巴大使的安杰洛·贝丘蒙席(Msgr. Angelo Becciu)表示。“它开启了新篇章，为所有古巴人带来了巨大的希望。结束封锁会改善这个岛屿的条件，激活经济。”
After he became pope in 2013, Francis was expected to revitalize the church in the Southern Hemisphere. But his background has also helped the Vatican reposition itself as an independent actor in diplomacy, less tethered to European or American worldviews than in the past.
在2013年成为主教后，外界预期方济各会在南半球重新振兴天主教的影响。但他的背景也帮助梵蒂冈改变方向，成为全球外交中一个独立角色，较少像过去那样，受制于欧洲或美国的世界观。