VATICAN CITY — Less than a year into his papacy, Pope Francis has raised expectations among the world’s one billion Catholics that change is coming. He has already transformed the tone of the papacy, confessing himself a sinner, declaring “Who am I to judge?” when asked about gays, and kneeling to wash the feet of inmates, including Muslims.
梵蒂冈城——成为教皇还不到一年，方济各(Pope Francis)已让全球10亿天主教徒抱有变化将至的期待。他改变了教皇的口气，承认自己有罪。当被问及同性恋问题时，他宣称“我有何资格来评判他人呢？”他还跪下来给包括穆斯林在内的犯人洗脚。
Less apparent, if equally significant for the future of the church, is how Francis has taken on a Vatican bureaucracy so plagued by intrigue and inertia that it contributed, numerous church officials now believe, to the historic resignation of his predecessor Benedict XVI last February.
不那么明显、但对教会的未来同样重要的是，方济各已经开始着手应对深受阴谋和惰性困扰的梵蒂冈官僚机制。很多教会官员如今认为，前任教皇本笃十六世(Benedict XVI)之所以会在去年2月历史性地辞职，就有这方面的原因。
Francis’ reign may not ultimately affect centuries-old church doctrine, but it is already reshaping the way the church is run and who is running it. Francis is steadily subbing moderates for traditionalists as the church prepares for a debate about the role of far-flung bishops in Vatican decision-making and a broad discussion on the family that could touch on delicate issues such as homosexuality and divorce.
方济各的任期可能不会最终动摇历史悠久的天主教教义，但却已重塑了教会的运作方式，变动了其中的人事。随着教会准备就“分散各处的主教在梵蒂冈决策过程中起到的作用”进行辩论，并开展可能触及同性恋和离婚等敏感话题的家庭问题大讨论时，方济各正在稳步用温和派替换传统派神职人员。
In St. Peter’s Basilica on New Year’s Eve, Francis, dressed in golden robes, hinted at the major changes he had already set in motion. “What happened this year?” he asked. “What is happening, and what will happen?”
新年夜，在圣彼得大教堂，身着金色长袍的方济各提到他已经开启的重大变化。“今年发生了什么？”他问道，“正在发生什么，将来又会发生什么？”
To some of the scarlet-clad cardinals seated in rows of gilded armchairs at the New Year’s service, the answer was becoming clear. Cardinal Raymond Burke, one of the highest-ranking Americans in the Vatican, found his influence diluted. Another archconservative, Cardinal Mauro Piacenza, was demoted. Among the bishops, Archbishop Guido Pozzo was sidelined.
在这次新年仪式上，一排排身着红衣的枢机主教坐在镀金的扶手椅上。对于他们中的一些人而言，答案变得清晰起来。枢机主教雷蒙德·伯克(Raymond Burke)是梵蒂冈职位最高的美国人之一，他发现自己的影响力遭到了削弱。另一名重要的保守派枢机主教毛罗·皮亚琴察(Mauro Piacenza)则被降职。在主教中，大主教圭多·波佐(Guido Pozzo)遭边缘化。
To some degree, Francis, 77, is simply bringing in his own team and equipping them to carry out his stated mission of creating a more inclusive and relevant church that is more sensitive to the needs of local parishes and the poor. But he is also breaking up the rival blocs of Italians with entrenched influence in the Roman Curia, the bureaucracy that runs the church. He is increasing financial transparency in the murky Vatican Bank and upending the career ladder that many prelates have spent their lives climbing.
从某种程度上说，77岁的方济各只是引入了自己的团队，并支持他们执行自己制定的使命：让教会变得更具包容性和意义，更加关心本地教区和穷人的需求。但另一方面，他也在打破对天主教执行机构罗马教廷(Roman Curia)有着根深蒂固影响的几大意大利势力。对于面目模糊的梵蒂冈银行，方济各正在提高财政透明度。很多主教花费一生精力一步步向上爬的职业阶梯，则正在遭到他的颠覆。
On Sunday, Francis made his first mark on the exclusive College of Cardinals that will elect his successor by naming prelates who in many cases hail from developing countries and the Southern Hemisphere. He pointedly instructed the new cardinals not to consider the job a promotion or to waste money with celebratory parties.
周日，方济各在拥有特权的天主教枢机团(College of Cardinals)留下了他的第一个印记，任命了新人选。这个团体将选出他的继任者，而很多新人都来自发展中国家和南半球。方济各特意对新的枢机主教说，不要把这个工作当成是晋升，应当远离奢侈的庆祝。
“It was an important year,” said Secretary of State Pietro Parolin, the Vatican’s second-ranking official and one of only four Vatican officials Francis will make a cardinal in February. Asked in a New Year’s Eve interview about the personnel changes, he replied that it was only natural that the Argentine pope should prefer to have “certain people who are able to advance his policy.”
“过去一年非常重要，”教廷国务卿伯多禄·帕罗林(Pietro Parolin)说。他是梵蒂冈排名第二的官员。方济各将于2月任命有限的四名梵蒂冈官员为枢机主教，他就是其中之一。在除夕的采访中，当被问及人事变动时，他回答，这位来自阿根廷的教皇更喜欢“能够推动他的政策的特定人选”，这是很自然的事情。
Interviews with cardinals, bishops, priests, Vatican officials, Italian politicians, diplomats and analysts indicate that the mood inside the Vatican ranges from adulation to uncertainty to deep anxiety, even a touch of paranoia. Several people say they fear Francis is going department by department looking for heads to roll. Others whisper about six mysterious Jesuit spies who act as the pope’s eyes and ears on the Vatican grounds. Mostly, once-powerful officials feel out of the loop.
对枢机主教、主教、神父、梵蒂冈官员、意大利政坛人士、外交官和分析人士的采访显示，在梵蒂冈内部，有人大力称赞教皇，有人感到情况不确定，有人陷入深深的焦虑，甚至还有人有点多疑。几个人说，他们担心方济各会挨个部门拿人开刀。还有私下的传言称，大约有六个神秘的耶稣会士间谍是教皇的耳目，正在梵蒂冈上下活动。多数情况下，曾经掌权的官员感觉自己处在了决策圈之外。
“It’s awkward,” said one senior Vatican official, who, like many others, insisted on anonymity for fear of retribution from Francis. “Many are saying, what are we doing this for?” He said some officials have stopped showing up for meetings. “It’s like frustrated teenagers closing the door and putting their headphones on.”
“这很尴尬，”梵蒂冈的一名高级官员说。因为担心遭到方济各的惩罚，与其他很多人一样，他不愿具名。“很多人说，我们做这些是为了什么？”他表示，一些官员已经不再出席会议了。“这就像是失意的少年关上了门，戴上了耳机。”
Francis remains tricky to define, a doctrinal conservative whose humble style and symbolic gestures have thrilled many liberals. On Christmas, the destitute poured into an ancient church in Rome for a holiday lunch sponsored by a Catholic lay organization. The group’s founder, Andrea Riccardi, once a liaison to the church when he served as an Italian government minister, expressed hopes for change, but also wariness about Vatican officials ignoring the pope’s agenda.
仍然很难给方济各定性，不过，他虽然是教义上的保守派，其谦逊的风格和象征性的姿态却让很多自由派激动不已。圣诞节期间，贫困者涌入了罗马一座古老的教堂，在那里享用一家天主教教友组织赞助的圣诞午餐。组织的创始人安德烈·里卡尔迪(Andrea Riccardi)在担任意大利政府部长期间曾是教会的联络人。他表示希望看到变化，但也对梵蒂冈官员无视教皇的议程表达了警惕之情。
“You hear people talk about it in the corridors of the church,” Mr. Riccardi said. “The real resistance is to continue business as usual.”
“人们在教会的走廊上议论纷纷，”里卡尔迪说。“真正的阻力是一切照旧。”
It was a pointed rebuke of the poisonous atmosphere that had troubled Benedict’s papacy, and that was often blamed on the former secretary of state, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone. And it was a reminder that Francis, if a new pope, was not new to the machinations of the Curia, having tangled while in Argentina with a powerful conservative faction.
这是对曾经困扰本笃教皇的不良氛围的直接谴责，而这种氛围往往被归咎于教廷前国务卿塔尔奇西奥·贝尔托内枢机主教(Tarcisio Bertone)。它同时也是一个提醒：方济各虽然是新任教皇，但对教廷的阴谋诡计却并不陌生，他之前曾在阿根廷与势力强大的保守派进行过较量。
“He was not an ingénue coming out into the world,” said Elisabetta Piqué, an Argentine journalist who has known Francis for more than two decades and whose recent book, “Francis: Life and Revolution,” documented his past clashes with Rome. “He had had almost a war with this section of the Roman Curia.”
阿根廷记者伊丽莎白·皮凯(Elisabetta Piqué)认识方济各已超过20年。她在最近出版的新书《方济各：生活与革命》(Francis: Life and Revolution)中记录了他过去与罗马的冲突。皮凯说，“他不是一个未经世事的人。他和罗马教廷的这个派别之间发生的事几乎称得上是一场战争。”
Now Francis talks disparagingly of “airport bishops” who are more interested in their careers than flocks, and warns that priests can become “little monsters” if they are not trained properly as seminarians.
现在，方济各用指责的口吻谈到那些对自身前途的关心远远超过对信众兴趣的“机场主教”。他警告，如果当神学院学生的时候没有接受过良好教育，神父可能成为“小怪物”。
He is dismantling the power circle of Cardinal Bertone, who led a ring of conservatives centered around the city of Genoa. In September, Francis demoted Cardinal Piacenza, a Bertone ally, from his post running the powerful Congregation of Clergy.
他正在破坏贝尔托内的权力圈子。后者以热那亚为中心，领导着一个保守派的小集体。去年9月，方济各给皮亚琴察降了职。他是贝尔托内的盟友，解职之前管理着拥有较大权力圣职部(Congregation of Clergy)。
To some it was an indication that the new pope could act with a measure of ruthlessness. Several Vatican officials said that Cardinal Piacenza’s greatest transgression had been undermining his predecessor, a Brazilian prelate close to Francis who appeared with him on the balcony of St. Peter’s after his election.
对于一些人来说，这意味着，新教皇的手法可以不讲情面。几名梵蒂冈官员说，皮亚琴察最大的越界行为是暗中削弱他的前任——与方济各关系亲近的一名巴西高级教士。方济各当选之后，此人曾与他一起出现在圣彼得大教堂的阳台上。
Francis also removed a top official of the Vatican City government, although arranging a soft landing pad. Others were less fortunate.
方济各还免去了梵蒂冈政府一名高级官员的职务，不过给他留了一些面子。其他人就没那么幸运了。
As a priest, Guido Pozzo led a Vatican commission tasked with bridging the schism between the church and traditionalists critical of the Second Vatican Council. In November 2012, Cardinal Bertone elevated him to the rank of archbishop and promoted him to run the church’s charity office. Francis, who is much less interested than Benedict in appealing to the schismatic conservatives, has since sent Archbishop Pozzo back to his former post.
作为一名神父，圭多·波佐领导着一个梵蒂冈委员会，奉命弥合教会与批评第二次梵蒂冈大公会议(Second Vatican Council)的传统派人士之间的分歧。2012年11月，贝尔托内擢升他为大主教，命其管理教会的慈善办公室。与本笃相比，方济各没有什么兴趣迎合引发分裂的保守派人士。他此后把波佐调回了之前的岗位。
Another is Cardinal Burke. In 2008, Benedict installed his fellow traditionalist as president of the Apostolic Signatura, the Vatican’s highest court, and the next year appointed him to the Congregation of Bishops. The post gave Cardinal Burke tremendous sway in selecting new bishops in the United States.
另一个是枢机主教伯克。2008年，本笃任命这名传统派同仁担任梵蒂冈最高法院(Apostolic Signatura)的院长，次年让他进入主教部(Congregation of Bishops)。这个职位让伯克在遴选美国的新主教过程中拥有极大的影响力。
In December, Francis replaced him with a more moderate cardinal. “He’s looking for places to put his people,” said one official critical of the pope.
去年12月，方济各用一名更温和的枢机主教取而代之。一名对教皇持批评态度的官员说，“他正在找地方安插自己的人。”
The New Year’s Eve Mass at St. Peter’s ended with a procession of priests escorting Francis out of the basilica, followed by the thousands of the faithful. In the emptied church, the cardinals and bishops rose from their seats, shook hands with dignitaries and milled about around St. Peter’s tomb.
新年前夜，在圣彼得大教堂举行的弥撒结束时，一队神父陪同方济各走出了教堂，跟着他们的是数千名信徒。他们走后，枢机主教和主教们从座位上站起来，和政要握手，在圣彼得的墓周围走来走去。
Cardinal Piacenza collected his umbrella from a prayer bench. Archbishop Pozzo made his way to the door. Asked about the changes underway in the Roman Curia, he replied, “It’s been a surprising year!”
皮亚琴察从一个祈祷者的椅子上收起了自己的伞。大主教波佐走到了门口。当被问到罗马教廷正在经历何种变化时，他回答道，“这一年实在出人意料！”
Not far away, Cardinal Burke blessed a few stragglers and declined to comment without permission from his “superiors.”
在不远处，伯克向几名走散的信徒表达了祝福，不过他拒绝发表评论，理由是没有“上级”的允许。
Weeks earlier, Cardinal Burke seemed poised to be the most prominent voice of resistance to Francis’s reign, telling a Catholic television network that he was not “exactly sure why” the pope “thinks we’re talking too much about abortion” and other culture war issues. When it came to changes in the Roman Curia, he bemoaned “a kind of unpredictability about life in Rome in these days.”
几周之前，伯克似乎打算发出抵制方济各权威的最强表态，他告诉一家天主教电视台，他“不是十分确定究竟是为什么”，教皇“认为我们对堕胎”，以及其他文化冲突的问题“谈论得太多了”。谈到罗马教廷的变化，他抱怨道“近期罗马的生活出现了一种不可预测性”。
At roughly the same time, Francis gave an interview to the Italian newspaper La Stampa. The pope spoke again about “tenderness” and opening up the church. But he also added: “Prudence is a virtue of government. So is boldness.”
大概在同一时间，方济各接受了意大利报纸《新闻报》(La Stampa)的采访。教皇再一次谈到了“怜爱”，也谈到了要让教会更加开放。但他还补充说，“谨慎是政府的美德，果敢也是。”
It was a telling point. On Dec. 15 Cardinal Burke returned to his boyhood parish in Stratford, Wis., to celebrate a special Mass. Dressed in the tall miter cap and traditional pink for the Christmas season, he spoke about his dairy farm roots but disappointed some of his parishioners by making no mention of Francis or the events happening in the Vatican.
这说明了一些问题。12月15日，伯克回到了他少年时待过的，位于威斯康星州斯特拉特福的堂区，举行一场特别的弥撒活动。他戴着高高的主教冠，身着圣诞季传统的粉红色服装，并说起自己生长在一个奶牛农场，但是没有提到方济各或梵蒂冈发生的事，这让一些堂区居民有些失望。
“I was hoping he would,” said Marge Pospyhalla, who attended the Mass. “But no, we did not get that.”
参加了弥撒的玛吉·珀斯派海拉(Marge Pospyhalla)说，“我本来希望他会讲。但是没有，我们没有听到这些。”
His silence said enough. The day after the Mass, Francis took Cardinal Burke off the Congregation of Bishops.
他的沉默说明了一切。弥撒后的第二天，方济各就把枢机主教伯克从主教部开除了。