SEOUL, South Korea — Pope Francis wrapped up the first papal visit to Asia in 15 years on Monday with calls for forgiveness and renewed dialogue on the divided Korean Peninsula and for more humanitarian aid for North Korea.
韩国首尔——罗马教皇15年来首次对亚洲的访问于周一告终，教皇方济各在访问结束时呼吁宽恕、在分裂的朝鲜半岛重启对话，以及为朝鲜提供更多的人道主义援助。
“Let us pray, then, for the emergence of new opportunities for dialogue, encounter and the resolution of differences, for continued generosity in providing humanitarian assistance to those in need, and for an ever greater recognition that all Koreans are brothers and sisters, members of one family, one people,” the pope said during a Mass in Myeongdong Cathedral, the center of South Korean Catholicism, that was attended by President Park Geun-hye.
“让我们一起祈求吧，为对话、相遇和解决分歧的新机会的出现，为给有需要者提供人道主义援助的不断慷慨，也为一种日益广泛的认识，那就是朝鲜半岛所有的人都是兄弟姐妹，是一个家庭的成员，是一个人民，”教皇在韩国天主教中心明洞圣堂做弥撒时说，韩国总统朴槿惠出席了活动。
Shortly after Francis’ appeal, the South Korean government issued a statement on Monday asking North Korea to accept its proposal from last week for high-level dialogue. It said that if North Korea behaves responsibly, it is ready to “discuss any subject,” including the possible easing of economic sanctions that it had imposed after the sinking of a South Korean warship in 2010, for which the South placed blame on the North.
方济各做出这个呼吁后不久，韩国政府发布一项声明，要求朝鲜接受其上周有关举行高级别对话的建议。声明说，如果朝鲜采取负责任的行为，韩国已经为“讨论任何问题”做好准备，包括可能放松在2010年一艘韩国军舰沉没后实施的经济制裁，韩国把军舰的沉没归咎于朝鲜。
The South Korean government has maintained that those sanctions, including the suspension of inter-Korean trade, will stay until North Korea apologizes for the sinking, which killed 46 sailors. The North has denied involvement.
韩国政府曾一直坚称，将持续这些制裁措施，其中包括中断朝鲜半岛之间的贸易，直到朝鲜为沉船道歉，沉船导致46名船员死亡。朝鲜否认与其有关。
Speaking at the same altar from which Korean Catholic leaders of the past had often influenced government policy with appeals for tolerance and criticism of dictatorships, Pope Francis ended his five-day visit with an impassioned plea for forgiveness and reconciliation with North Korea.
就是在方济各讲话的同一个圣坛上，韩国过去的天主教领袖常常通过呼吁宽容、批评独裁来影响政府的政策，方济各在这里以宽恕和与朝鲜和解的热切恳求结束了他为期五天的访问。
“Peter asks the Lord: ‘If my brother sins against me, how often must I forgive him? As many as seven times?’ To which the Lord replies: ‘Not seven times, I tell you, but 70 times seven,'” the pope said. “Unless we are prepared to do this, how can we honestly pray for peace and reconciliation?”
“彼得问主：‘如果我的兄弟对我犯了罪，我必须原谅他多少次？最多7次吗？’主对此答道：‘我告诉你吧，不是7次，而是70乘7次，’”教皇说。“除非我们愿意这样做，我们怎样才能真诚地祈求和平与和解呢？”
“In telling us to forgive our brothers unreservedly,” Francis said in reference to Jesus, “he is asking us to do something utterly radical.”
“通过告诉我们要毫无保留地原谅我们的兄弟，他在要求我们做出彻底的改变，”方济各说，他指的是耶稣。
Such a message usually does not go down very well with right-wing Protestants in South Korea, some of whom have protested the pope’s visit. Although Protestant groups have led efforts to ship aid to North Korea, they also constitute the most vocal activists against the Communist government in Pyongyang. They have burned its leader, Kim Jong-un, in effigy during outdoor rallies and have released large balloons that were timed to unleash anti-Kim leaflets over the isolated North.
这种信息通常不被韩国的右翼基督教徒接受，他们中有些人抗议了教皇的来访。虽然有些新教团体在给朝鲜运送援助的努力上起了带头作用，但新教徒也是反对平壤共产党政府的最强烈的积极分子的组成部分。他们在露天集会上焚烧朝鲜领导人金正恩的模拟像，还发放大型气球，气球上有反金正日的传单，可按设定的时间散发到处于孤立状态的朝鲜。
Last Monday, South Korea proposed high-level government talks with the North. When the rival governments last held such talks in February, they arranged a round of reunions of aging Korean relatives who were separated during the 1950-53 Korean War.
上周一，韩国提议与朝鲜政府举行高层会谈。这两个敌对政府最近一次在2月举行这种会谈时，安排了一轮朝鲜半岛老年亲人的团聚，这些家庭是1950-53年朝鲜战争期间被拆散的。
Such reunions are a highly emotional issue on the divided peninsula, and South Korea had hoped to arrange a new round around Chuseok, the Korean Thanksgiving holiday on Sept. 8 that is a traditional time for family gatherings. But so far, North Korea has not responded to the overture, instead reiterating its demand for the lifting of sanctions.
家庭团聚对朝鲜半岛的人来说仍是一个让人高度情绪激动的问题。韩国希望在秋夕前后安排新一轮家庭团聚，9月8日的秋夕是韩国的感恩节，是家庭聚会的传统节日。但朝鲜迄今尚未对韩国的表示做出回应，而是重申了其有关解除制裁的要求。
“If the North has a demand, it must first come to the table of dialogue,” the South’s Unification Ministry said in a statement on Monday. “If the North shows a responsible attitude, we are ready to discuss anything for the improvement of South-North relations.” The South Korean Catholic church had asked the North to send a delegation to the pope’s Mass for peace and reconciliation on Monday, but the North rejected the offer. North Korea only tolerates government-sanctioned churches and temples, which are widely dismissed as an attempt to hide its persecution of religious worshipers.
“如果朝鲜有要求，就必须先坐到对话的桌子边上来，”韩国统一部在周一的一份声明中说。“如果朝鲜显示出负责任的态度，我们准备讨论任何能改善南北关系的事情。”韩国天主教会曾邀请朝鲜派代表团出席教皇周一做的和平与和解弥撒，但朝鲜拒绝了邀请。朝鲜只允许得到政府批准的教堂和寺庙，这种做法被普遍斥责为企图掩饰其对宗教信徒的迫害。
The so-called separated families have long served as a symbol of the torturous modern history of Korea, a nation the pope on Monday said was “a people dispersed by disaster and division.” At the beginning of the Mass on Monday, Francis greeted and consoled another such symbol: seven women who said they were forced or deceived into working at front-line brothels for Japan’s army during World War II.
那些所谓的离散家庭作为朝鲜半岛曲折近代史的标志由来已久，教皇在周一的讲话中把朝鲜半岛描述为一个“被灾难和分裂驱散的人民”的家园。在周一的弥撒开始之前，方济各还问候和安慰了朝鲜半岛近代史上的另一个标志：7名自称被迫或被骗在二战期间日本军队的前线妓院工作的妇女。
Historians estimate that Japan mobilized as many as 200,000 such women across Asia, many of them from Korea, a Japanese colony at the time.
历史学家估计，日本从亚洲各国征集了最多达20万名这样的妇女，其中许多来自当时是日本殖民地的朝鲜。