In his first nine months as leader of one billion Roman Catholics, Pope Francis has parceled out glimpses of his vision for remaking the church — in homilies and news conferences, interviews and offhand remarks to visitors.
在担任10亿罗马天主教徒领导者的头九个月里，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)通过各种方式显示了自己重塑教会的愿景——如通过布道、新闻发布会、采访，或对游客随便发表的评论。
On Tuesday, he announced his agenda in his own unfiltered words, reaffirming the impression that he intends to jolt the church out of complacency and enlist all Catholics in his ambitious project of renewing the church by confronting the real needs of people in need.
周二，方济各用直白的语言公布了自己的目标。这再次印证了这样一种印象，即他打算敲醒夜郎自大的教会，并通过关照那些需要扶助的人，号召所有天主教徒与他一道，投身于重塑教会的宏大事业之中。
In a challenge to the Vatican hierarchy, Francis called for decentralizing power in the church, saying the Vatican and even the pope must collaborate with bishops, laypeople and in particular women.
方济各对梵蒂冈的等级制度发起了挑战，他呼吁分散教会的权力，称梵蒂冈、甚至教皇本人都必须与主教、平信徒，特别是女性合作。
“I prefer a church which is bruised, hurting and dirty because it has been out on the streets, rather than a church which is unhealthy from being confined and from clinging to its own security,” Francis said in the first teaching document of his papacy that he alone composed.
方济各在成为教皇后发布的首篇劝谕中写道，“与因为固步自封、只顾自己安危，因而运转不良的教会相比，我宁愿看到一个伤痕累累、承受痛苦、满身污浊的教会，因为我们活跃在街头。”
“I do not want a church concerned with being at the center and then ends by being caught up in a web of obsessions and procedures,” he wrote.
他写道，“我不希望这是一个只关心自己的中心地位，最终却被固执和成规束缚手脚的教会。”
The document, called “Evangelii Gaudium,” (the Joy of the Gospel), is an apostolic exhortation — less authoritative than an encyclical, but an important pronouncement. He drafted it in August in Spanish, said a Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, as a reflection on a synod of bishops last year that took up the “new evangelization.”
名为《福音的喜乐》(Evangelii Gaudium)的劝谕是教皇发表的训诫——不如通谕权威，但也是一项重要的公告。梵蒂冈发言人费德里科·隆巴尔迪神父(Rev. Federico Lombardi)表示，教皇在今年8月用西班牙语起草了劝谕，以此反映去年开启了“新福传运动”的主教会议。
Francis’ prescription for the church is inextricably tied up with his analysis of what is wrong with the world. He devotes many pages to denouncing the “dictatorship” of a global economic system and a free market that perpetuates inequality and “devours” what is fragile, including human beings and the environment.
方济各对教会的指示，与他对这个世界的问题作出的分析有着紧密的联系。方济各用很大的篇幅谴责全球经济体制和自由市场的“独裁统治”，称自由市场延续着不平等，“吞噬”脆弱的部分，比如人类及环境。
“How can it be that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure, but it is news when the stock market loses two points?” he wrote, in the folksy language that has already marked his as a memorable papacy.
他用通俗的语言写道，“一个无家可归的老人冻死街头没有登上新闻，而股市跌了两点却能成为新闻，怎么会这样呢？”方济各会是一名让人铭记的教皇，这种语言风格已经成了他的标志。
Vincent J. Miller, a theologian who writes on economic globalization at the University of Dayton, a Catholic university, said that while other popes have critiqued the economy, Francis has perspective on economic injustice as the first pope from Latin America, and is putting forward the church as the counterpoint.
天主教大学戴顿大学(University of Dayton)的神学家文森特·J·米勒(Vincent J. Miller)撰写一些有关经济全球化的文章。米勒表示，虽然其他教皇也对这种经济制度提出过批评，但方济各作为第一个来自拉丁美洲的教皇，对经济不公表达了看法，也拿教会与之进行对比。
“He talks about an economy of exclusion, while he’s been modeling and practicing inclusion publicly through his whole papacy,” Mr. Miller said.
米勒说，“他谈到了将贫者排除在外的经济制度，而他在担任教皇的时间里，一直在展示并实践包容的态度。”
After months in which many have parsed his comments for hints of change, the pope uses the document to reiterate church teachings on abortion, homosexuality and the ordination of women. On abortion, he said, “It is not ‘progressive’ to try to resolve problems by eliminating a human life. On the other hand, it is also true that we have done little to adequately accompany women in very difficult situations,” who may seek abortions because of rape or extreme poverty.
数月以来，许多人都在仔细分析方济各的言论，以寻求改革的蛛丝马迹。教皇利用这份劝谕，重申了教会关于堕胎、同性恋和向妇女赋予神职等问题的教义。关于堕胎，他说，“试图通过消灭另一个生命来解决问题的做法并不‘进步’。另一方面，我们应该对身处困境的女性给予足够的陪伴，但我们在这方面做的确实很少，”这些女性之所以希望堕胎，可能是因为遭到了强奸或者是因为自己极度贫困。
Nowhere in the document does Francis speak explicitly of homosexuality or same-sex marriage. However, he says the church should not give in to “moral relativism,” and cites with approval a document written by the bishops of the United States on ministering to people with “homosexual inclination.” The pope says the American bishops are right that the church must insist on “objective moral norms which are valid for everyone” — even when the church is perceived by supporters of gay rights as promoting prejudice and interfering with individual freedom.
方济各没有在劝谕中的任何地方明确提到同性恋或同性婚姻。但是他说，教会不应屈服于“道德相对主义”，他引用了美国主教所写的一份关于照料有“同性恋倾向”的人的劝谕，并对相关观点表示赞同。教皇称，美国主教是对的，教会必须坚持“客观的道德标准，这种标准适用于每个人”——即使同性恋权益支持者会认为，教会是在推行偏见和干涉个人自由。
Echoing his predecessors, Francis says that ordaining women to the priesthood “is not a question open to discussion.” He acknowledges that “many women share pastoral responsibilities with priests,” and says “we need to create still broader opportunities for a more incisive female presence in the church.” But he offers no specifics on doing so.
与前任一样，方济各也表示，向女性赋予神职“不是一个需要讨论的问题”。他承认“很多女性都在与神父分担牧职”。他还说，“我们需要创造更广阔的机会，让女性能够更深入地参与教会工作。”但他并没有详细阐述如何实施这一点。
But the document dwells at length on how priests can preach better homilies, which he says are the “touchstone” for judging how close a pastor is with his people. Francis says that both clergy and laypeople suffer from homilies: “the laity from having to listen to them and the clergy from having to preach them! It is sad that this is the case.”
但是，劝谕详细讲述了神父如何才能提供更好的训诫。他说，这是判断神职人员与他的教众亲密与否的“试金石”。方济各说，神职人员和平信徒都在被训诫所折磨：“平信徒必须聆听训诫，而神职人员必须进行训诫！这种情况很令人失望。”
Francis proposed a vision of a decentralized church. Bishops and priests have a better sense of the needs of the faithful, he said. Parishes should be the point of “contact with the homes and the lives of its people,” not a “useless structure out of touch with people or a self-absorbed cluster made up of a chosen few.”
方济各提出了让教会更松散的构想。他说，主教和神父更了解信众的需求。教区应该成为“触及信众的家庭和生活的”地点，而不是“一个远离信众的无用建筑，或是由特定的少数人所组成的只顾自己的小集体”。
“Lay people are, put simply, the vast majority of the people of God. The minority — ordained ministers — are at their service,” Francis wrote.
方济各写道，“简而言之，平信徒在上帝的子民中占绝大多数。其中的少数人——晋铎的神职人员——要为他们服务。”
John Thavis, a former Vatican bureau chief for Catholic News Service, who wrote “The Vatican Dairies,” said, “He’s laying down some real markers about the kinds of reforms he expects to preside over, including greater decentralization, openness to diversity in the church, and a greater emphasis on the gospel message of salvation as opposed to church doctrines and rules.”
天主教新闻社(Catholic News Service)梵蒂冈分社社长、《梵蒂冈日记》(The Vatican Diaries)的作者约翰·塔维斯(John Thavis)说，“他明确阐述了一些自己所期望的变革，包括进一步分散权力、对教会的多元性持开放态度，以及更注重传播救赎福音，而不是专注于教会的教义和规矩。”