PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Amid a political push for government-funded preschool for 4-year-olds, a growing number of experts fear that such programs actually start too late for the children most at risk. That is why Deisy Ixcuna-González, the 16-month-old daughter of Guatemalan immigrants, is wearing a tiny recorder that captures every word she hears and utters inside her family’s cramped apartment one day a week.
罗德岛州普罗维登斯——目前，有政治力量开始推动为4岁的儿童提供政府资助的学前教育。但与此同时，越来越多的专家也在担心，对于大多数处境最危险的儿童来说，这种项目其实开始得太晚了。这就是两位危地马拉移民一岁零四个月的女儿德伊茜·伊克斯丘那-冈萨雷斯(Deisy Ixcuna-González)要佩戴一个微型录音机的原因。他们每周都有一天，让这个录音机把她在家里狭窄的公寓中听到的、说出的所有声音都录下来。
Recent research shows that brain development is buoyed by continuous interaction with parents and caregivers from birth, and that even before age 2, the children of the wealthy know more words than do those of the poor. So the recorder acts as a tool for instructing Deisy’s parents on how to turn even a visit to the kitchen into a language lesson. It is part of an ambitious campaign, known as Providence Talks, that is aimed at the city’s poorest residents and intended to reduce the knowledge gap long before school starts. It is among a number of such efforts being undertaken throughout the country.
近期的研究表明，孩子出生后，如果与父母和护理人员进行持续互动，就能促进大脑发育；而且在2岁以前，富裕家庭的孩子知道的单词就比贫困家庭的孩子更多。所以，录音机的作用就在于告诉德伊茜的父母，如何把在厨房的逗留也变成一堂语言课。这是一项被称作“普罗维登斯谈话”(Providence Talks)的项目的部分内容，这个目标远大的项目针对的是普罗维登斯最贫穷的居民，其目的在于缩小富人与穷人之间的知识差距，这种差距在学校教育开始很久以前就存在了。全国各地正在实施一系列此类计划。
“When she grabs your hand and brings you to the refrigerator and points to the cabinet, that is an opportunity for you to say, ‘Deisy, are you hungry? You want cereal? Let’s go look for the cereal,’ ” Stephanie Taveras, a Providence Talks home visitor who also works with Early Head Start, told Deisy’s mother in Spanish. “You do the responding for her now until she has the vocabulary, and she will be hearing you.”
“如果她抓住你的手，把你拉到冰箱面前，指向橱柜，你就可以利用这个机会对她说，‘德伊茜，你饿了吗？你是不是想吃麦片啊？我们去找麦片吧，’”普罗维登斯谈话项目的家庭指导员斯蒂芬妮·塔夫拉斯(Stephanie Taveras)用西班牙语告诉德伊茜的母亲。塔夫拉斯也是“早期学前教育计划”(Early Head Start)的工作人员。“现在你可以替她做这样的回答，等她掌握相关词汇后，她就能听懂你说什么了。”
Educators say that many parents, especially among the poor and immigrants, do not know that talking, as well as reading, singing and playing with their young children, is important. “I’ve had young moms say, ‘I didn’t know I was supposed to talk to my baby until they could say words and talk to me,’ ” said Susan Landry, director of the Children’s Learning Institute at the University of Texas in Houston, which has developed a home visiting program similar to the one here in Providence.
教育工作者说，许多家长，尤其是贫穷家庭和移民家庭的家长，并不知道与小孩说话、对他们阅读、唱歌，以及和他们一起玩耍是非常重要的。“有些年轻母亲曾经对我说，‘直到孩子知道一些词，并开始和我说话，我才知道我应该和他们说话，’”休斯顿德州大学(University of Texas)儿童学习研究所(Children’s Learning Institute)所长苏珊·兰德里(Susan Landry)说。该机构推出了一个与普罗维登斯的项目相似的家访项目。
Close to a quarter of all American children now live in poverty. More than half of all children age 2 and under are cared for during the day by a parent or relative, according to a McCormick Foundation analysis of census data.
目前，有将近四分之一的美国儿童生活在贫困之中。麦考密克基金会(McCormick Foundation)对人口普查资料的分析显示，超过一半2岁及2岁以下的儿童都是由一位家长或亲属来照顾的。
To reach those children, educators say they need to focus their efforts on the home.
为了接触这些孩子，教育人员说，他们需要把注意力放在家庭上。
“In the same way that we say you should feed your child, brush their teeth, you should be stimulating their brain by talking, singing and reading to them,” said Ann O’Leary, the director of Too Small to Fail, an initiative aimed at closing the word gap across the country. “We want to move the needle from this being an optional activity to a must-do activity.”
“我们会告诉他们，应该喂孩子、给他们刷牙，我们也会以同样的口气说，应该用交谈、唱歌和朗读的方式来刺激他们的大脑，”安·奥利里(Ann O’Leary)说。“我们想让这件事从一种可有可无的活动，变成一种必须进行的活动。”奥利里是“幼童不落后”(Too Small to Fail)项目的负责人，该项目的目标是缩小全国的词汇量差距。
Ms. O’Leary said Too Small to Fail would experiment with a variety of media messages in different cities. Starting later this spring, slogans like “Words bring your child’s mind to life,” “Talking is teaching” and “Feed me words” will appear on billboards, grocery carts and buses in low-income neighborhoods in Tulsa, Okla. The goal, Ms. O’Leary said, is to emulate the success of other public information campaigns such as those intended to reduce crib deaths by persuading parents to put their babies to sleep on their backs.
奥利里说，“幼童不落后”将在不同城市尝试投放一些讯息。从今年春天晚些时候开始，“词语能激活儿童思维”、“交谈就是教育”和“教我单词”的标语，将出现在俄克拉荷马州塔尔萨的低收入社区的广告牌、购物车和巴士上。奥利里说，这样做是为了效仿其他公益文宣所取得的成功，比如通过劝说父母让孩子在睡觉时仰卧，来减少婴儿的猝死。
Advocates for the poor say that improving the long-term academic prospects of disadvantaged children, much less their chance of escaping poverty, is a much more complicated proposition than some of these programs might suggest.
贫困家庭权益的倡导者说，与这些项目所提出的方案相比，改善贫困家庭的孩子在学业上的前景是一个复杂得多的问题，更不用说提高他们脱离贫困的几率了。
“When Hillary Clinton runs around trying to close the word gap, it’s like fine, vocabulary is good,” said Bruce Fuller, a professor of education and public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. “But there is a deeper commitment to literacy and conversation around the dinner table and talking to kids about ideas and political controversies that is the more colorful fabric of literacy and conversation.”
“当希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)四处奔走，宣传缩小词汇量差距时，人们都反应平平，‘好吧，认识单词挺好的’，”加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的教育和公共政策教授布鲁斯·富勒(Bruce Fuller)说。“但其实饭桌上的交谈，与孩子谈论观点和政治争议时，对于识字率有更深的帮助。这些时刻都是学单词和交流中比较有趣的部分。”
Here in Providence, where more than 85 percent of public school students are eligible for federally subsidized lunches and two-thirds of public school kindergartners are behind in recognizing basic language sounds or identifying letters in print, officials see Providence Talks as just one part of a larger educational strategy. It is being funded by a $5 million grant from Bloomberg Philanthropies, and officials hope that they can eventually secure some public funding.
在普罗维登斯，超过85%的公立学校学生有资格享受由联邦资助的午餐，而且三分之二的公立幼儿园的孩子在辨认基本的语言发音或者辨识印刷文字方面成绩落后。在官员看来，普罗维登斯谈话项目只是一个规模更大的教育战略的部分内容。布隆伯格慈善基金会(Bloomberg Philanthropies)为该项目提供了500万美元（约合3100万元人民币）的资助，官员们希望他们最终能取得一些政府拨款。
“The more effective we can show that it is, the higher the possibility that you can get government funding for it,” said Angel Taveras, Providence’s first Latino mayor and a graduate of Head Start.
“我们越能展示出它的有效性，政府就越有可能为它提供资助，”普罗维登斯的首位拉丁裔市长、受惠于学前教育计划(Head Start)的安杰尔·塔夫拉斯(Angel Taveras)说。
On a chilly afternoon this month, Ms. Taveras (who is not related to the mayor) sat down with Deisy’s parents. María González, who has a third-grade education and spoke her native K’iche’ when she emigrated from Guatemala seven years ago, reviewed a bar chart that showed how many words she and her husband, Rafael Ixcuna, who packs fruit at a factory in the city, had spoken to Deisy on a day the previous week.
在本月一个寒冷的下午，塔夫拉斯（与市长无亲戚关系）与德伊茜的父母坐到了一起。玛丽亚·冈萨雷斯(María González)只读到了三年级，七年前从危地马拉移居这里时，说的还是家乡的基切语(K’iche’)。她的丈夫拉斐尔·伊克斯丘那(Rafael Ixcuna)在市里的一家工厂包装水果。两人在查看一个条形统计图，此图记录了他们上周的某一天对德伊茜说过多少个词。
To help give parents feedback and provide data for researchers, the home visitors give each family — all of whom volunteered to participate — a tiny recording device, known as a Lena, that can be inserted into a vest worn by the child. The recorders distinguish between words overheard from television or other electronics and live human conversations. Computer software then analyzes the numbers of words spoken.
为了更好地给家长提供反馈，给研究人员提供数据，家庭指导员给每个家庭——他们都是自愿参加的——发了一个叫做Lena的小型记录设备，可以放在孩子穿的背心里。记录仪能够分辨来自电视或其他电子设备的话语和人声。然后，电脑软件会对记录下来的词语数量进行分析。
Privacy advocates and the Rhode Island chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union raised concerns about the recordings. In response, Providence officials disabled playback functions on the devices and promised that home visitors and others would never be able to listen to the actual conversations. The recordings are immediately erased once they are uploaded for word-count analysis.
隐私权倡导人士和美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)罗德岛州分会对这些录音表示了担忧。作为回应，普罗维登斯的官员让设备无法进行回放，并承诺家庭指导员和其他人无法听到实际的谈话内容。用来进行单词量分析的录音内容一经上传，就会被立即抹除。
Researchers say such recordings will help them track results. In the short term, scholars will evaluate whether the home visits prompt parents to talk more. In the longer term, they will be looking for improvements in future academic performance.
研究人员说，这些录音能帮他们对结果进行跟踪。从短期来看，学者们将会评估家访对督促家长们多说话有何效果。长期来看，他们还会研究这种做法是否有助于孩子将来在学业上的表现。