For much of the last 35 years, the wine critic Robert Parker dominated the international wine scene. Parker invented the 100-point rating system for wine, and his reviews wielded such influence over sales that vintners everywhere worked to please Parker’s palate, making oaky, intensely flavored, high-alcohol wines. Kermit Lynch, meanwhile, through his wine shop in Berkeley, Calif., and also through his nationwide distribution business, chose to sell only French and Italian wines made in the unadulterated, old-school traditional style aimed at accentuating terroir — each vineyard’s unique combination of weather, soil and geography.
在过去35年的大部分时候，红酒评论家罗伯特·帕克(Robert Parker)主导着国际红酒市场。帕克发明了红酒百分制评分法，他的评价对销售影响极大，所以世界各地的红酒生产者都想方设法讨好帕克的味蕾，生产有橡木味的、特别浓烈的、酒精含量高的红酒。然而与此同时，红酒经销商克米特·林奇(Kermit Lynch)在自己位于加利福尼亚州伯克利的红酒商店及美国各地的销售网点只销售法国和意大利红酒。这些红酒必须是用不添加其他成分的传统方式酿制的，意在凸显每个葡萄园独特的气候、土壤和地理综合条件。
For years, Lynch, who lives in Berkeley and near Bandol, France, wrote about these values in a monthly newsletter and also in his 1988 book, “Adventures on the Wine Route: A Wine Buyer’s Tour of France,” which is being reissued by Farrar, Straus & Giroux next month. Today, wine culture is focused on natural and biodynamic wines, and wine bars named Terroir have opened in San Francisco, Scottsdale, Brooklyn, four locations in Manhattan and London. It seems fair to say the Lynch way is finally having its day.
多年来，在伯克利和法国邦多尔附近居住的林奇在他发行的每月时讯，以及他1988年的书《红酒之旅：一个红酒买家的法国之旅》(Adventures on the Wine Route: A Wine Buyer’s Tour of France)中，强调这些因素的重要性。该书下个月将由Farrar, Straus & Giroux出版社再次发行。如今，红酒文化讲究天然和生物动力学，以Terroir命名的红酒酒吧在旧金山、斯科茨代尔、布鲁克林、曼哈顿（四家）和伦敦纷纷出现。所以我们可以客观地说，林奇的方法最终得到了肯定。
Q: What makes you happy when you pick up a restaurant wine list?
问：当你拿起一家餐馆的红酒酒单，什么情况会让你感到高兴？
A: I can tell you what makes me unhappy is when it weighs 40 pounds. I just don’t get that. Make the selection for us. But also, when I started bringing in a lot of these wines — Côte Roti, Chinon — nobody wanted them. Every restaurant in the States was fighting to get their one annual case of the obvious big-ticket wines like Raveneau or Beaucastel. Now I go into restaurants and I’m asking the sommelier, “Where’s this from?” It’s a treat. One of the most exciting things happening is sommeliers turning customers on to new wines.
答：我能告诉你的是什么情况让我不高兴：酒单重40磅。我真是弄不懂。餐馆要先为顾客筛选一下呀。况且，我当初进了很多这种酒——罗地海岸(Côte Roti)的，希农(Chinon)的——根本没人买。当时美国的每家餐厅都只是拼命想弄到一箱那一年最贵的红酒，比如Raveneau酒庄的或Beaucastel酒庄的。现在我走进餐馆，问酒侍，“这酒是哪儿产的？”这是一桩乐事。最令人兴奋的一件事就是酒侍让顾客对新酒产生兴趣。
Q: For the longest time, the Robert Parker way of thinking about wine was ascendant. Now the Kermit Lynch way is in fashion. Why do you think that happened?
问：罗伯特·帕克评判红酒的方法占据主导地位的时间最长。如今，克米特·林奇的方法正在流行。你觉得为什么会发生这种转变？
A: There are so many people scoring wines these days. That might dilute Parker’s influence. And he’s hired other writers. I’ve read so many times that Parker’s great secret or invention or whatever — his route to fame and power — was that 100-point scoring system. I always thought it was his writing. He’s great at expressing his enthusiasm. You want to feel that way yourself: I want to get all excited! I think too, people are going for more natural wines — the Parker style and natural wines weren’t a good fit.
答：如今那么多人给红酒评分。这可能会冲淡帕克的影响力。他还雇佣了其他写手。我多次读到，帕克最伟大的秘密或发明，或者说他获得名声和权力的方法，就是百分制评分法。我一直觉得那因为他很会写。他十分善于表达自己的热情。你自己也很想有那种感觉：我想让所有人都兴奋起来！另外我认为现在人们喜欢更天然的红酒，但是帕克的方法和天然红酒并不契合。
Q: Why?
问：为什么？
A: I call the wines that have been ascendant during the Parker reign “pop wines,” because they’re created by people thinking, Oh, wow, if I make a wine like that I’ll get a hundred points and I’ll be as rich as so-and-so. They see, “Jeez, I’m driving my tractor, and he’s driving a Mercedes, and I have land here, too!” But my God, how many oaky alcoholic wines can you suffer before it becomes monotonous?
答：我把帕克统治时期占主导地位的红酒称为“果味汽酒”，因为酿造那种红酒的人都是这么想的：哦，哇，如果我酿造那种红酒，我就能得100分，我就能变得多么多么有钱。他们说，“天哪，我开着拖拉机，他却开着奔驰，而我在这里也有土地呀！”但是我的天哪，橡木味烈性红酒你还没喝够啊？
I hope that doesn’t come off as harsh — I don’t criticize Parker for his influence. Parker even denies the existence of the “Parker palate,” though he says humorously that his own wife disagrees with him about that. What is important is that he is the only person in the wine world who does not think there is a Parker palate, that there’s a wine style that he has a weakness for.
我希望我刚才说的话不会太刺耳，我不是要批评帕克的影响力。帕克甚至否认“帕克味蕾”的存在，不过他打趣地说，连他的妻子都不赞同他的看法。重要的是，他是红酒界唯一否认存在“帕克味蕾”、否认自己偏爱某种红酒的人。
Q: Wine grapes are being grown all over the world, these days — is that good or bad?
问：如今，世界各地都在种植酿造红酒的葡萄，这是好事还是坏事？
A: I don’t stay awake at night about it. Look, there’s great terroir and there’s lousy terroir. A wine showing terroir doesn’t mean it’s good.
答：这种情况还不至于让我愁得晚上睡不着觉。是这样，有些地方的水土条件很好，有些地方的不好。并不是所有反映当地水土条件的红酒都是好酒。
Q: To what degree does price reflect quality?
问：价格在多大程度上能反映质量？
A: I don’t think you can make a blanket statement. One of the two best reds I’ve ever had was a ’61 Romanée-Conti. It was like discovering Bach for the first time, or seeing Michelangelo’s David. Ah! That a grape can do that! I think the new vintages are $1,000 a bottle. Is it worth it? Ask a Russian billionaire. One domaine I imported, Henri Jayer, one of his wines just sold for about $20,000 a bottle. Plenty of wines sell at auction for great sums — are they worth it? Not always, but every once in a while I wish I were a Russian billionaire.
答：这很难一概而论。我喝过两种最好的红酒，其中一种是1961年罗曼尼·康迪(Romanée-Conti)酒庄出品的。那种感觉就像是第一次听见巴赫的乐曲或者第一次看见米开朗基罗的《大卫》(David)。啊！葡萄能变成这么美味的东西！我觉得那些新的特定年份生产的葡萄酒一瓶定价是1000美元。它值这个价吗？你去问问俄罗斯的亿万富翁。我曾进口过亨利·贾伊尔(Henri Jayer)酒庄的酒，他的某种酒一瓶就卖约20000美元。有很多红酒能拍出天价——它们值那个价吗？不总是值那个价，但是我时常希望自己是个俄罗斯亿万富翁。
Q: Is there no reliable difference between, say, a great $100 bottle and a great $1,000 bottle?
问：那一瓶100美元的好酒和一瓶1000美元的好酒真的没有绝对的不同吗？
A: Demand, that’s the only difference. Some wines are in, some are out. It’s not quality.
答：需求。需求是唯一的不同。有些红酒开始流行，有些红酒过时了。与质量无关。
Q: How about grape varietals — are there any you find particularly interesting right now?
问：那葡萄种类呢？你目前有没有对哪种葡萄特别感兴趣？
A: I’m a big fan lately of vermentino. Probably 50 or 60 percent of the bottles I open at home, for my own drinking, are white burgundies or vermentinos. But that changes. It’s like, for a while I’ll just be interested in older wines from my cellar, and then, “Oh, no, all I want are young fresh wines.”
答：我最近特别喜欢维蒙蒂诺(vermentino)。我自己在家喝的酒50%至60%是勃艮第白葡萄酒或维蒙蒂诺红葡萄酒。但是我的口味一直在变。有一阵子，我可能只对酒窖中年份久远的葡萄酒感兴趣，可能过了一阵子，就变成“哦，不，我只想喝年份近的新鲜葡萄酒”。
Q: Any others?
问：还有别的吗？
A: I just came back from a trip to where the Pyrenees meet the Mediterranean, and I found wines that blew my mind. Like a pure carignan blanc I heard about through the sommelier at a restaurant in Paris called Frenchie — the chef had done a stage, an internship, in England where they never called him by his real name; they’d just say, “Hey, Frenchie!” So he named his restaurant Frenchie. So I head down to this ugly little town near Narbonne, and I enter this cellar, and it’s narrow and there’s no oak casks and no stainless steel. All I see are plastic tanks, and I think O.K., how am I going to get out of here? I like to believe that after all these years, I can sense what I’m in for when I step into a winery. Instead, everything I tasted was beyond marvelous. Domaine Les Milles Vignes, it’s called. And places like this are popping up all over France — tiny cellars. It’s exciting.
答：我刚从比利牛斯山和地中海交接的地方旅行回来，我在那里找到了一种让我十分震撼的红酒。巴黎一家名叫“法国佬”(Frenchie)的餐馆的酒侍跟我说它像纯粹的白佳丽酿。那家餐馆的大厨在英国实习时，别人都不叫他的真名，只叫他：“嘿，法国佬！”所以他就把自己的餐馆命名为“法国佬”。所以我就去了纳博讷附近的那个丑陋的小镇，我走进酒窖，发现酒窖很窄，没有橡木桶，也没有不锈钢桶。我只看到了塑料桶，心想：好吧，我怎么才能离开这儿？我一向认为，经过这么多年，我只要走进一个酒窖，就知道那里的酒怎么样。但是，我在那里喝到的红酒味道好极了。那个酒窖叫Les Milles Vignes。法国各地冒出了很多这样的小酒窖，很让人兴奋。
Q: How about wines the rest of us can find — any tips on tracking down good bottles?
问：那有没有我们普通人能找到的好酒？有没有什么发现好酒的窍门？
A: Find a good merchant and let her pick out four or five bottles and then give the wines a chance. Try to be open-minded when you taste. A lot of people say, “I don’t know much about wine, but I know what I like.” Maybe you don’t know what you like, because you just keep drinking the same style. The wine world is pretty vast and diverse, and it’s not marriage. You don’t have to be faithful to one style. So don’t impose your comparatively limited experience on every wine you encounter. Try to understand wine styles you’re not familiar with.
答：找一个好酒商，让她给你挑选四五瓶酒，试试她推荐的酒。你品尝的时候，要抱着包容的态度。很多人说，“我不太懂红酒，但是我知道自己喜欢喝什么。”事实上，你也许不知道自己喜欢什么，因为你只喝那一种。红酒的世界很大，种类很多。它不像婚姻，你不必忠于某种红酒。所以不要把你相对有限的经历用到你碰见的每一种红酒上。尽力去了解你不熟悉的红酒。
Q: Would it make sense for people to shop by importer?
问：去进口商那里买酒合适吗？
A: Sure, buy three or four from one importer, then from another. You might run into one who satisfies. Get some friends together, go through a dozen wines. But it’s superimportant to taste the wines in the correct order — go from light to full-bodied, dry to sweet, young to old. If you taste a heavy, jammy red with 15 percent alcohol first, your palate will have trouble noticing the pretty little charmer at 11.5 percent. Also, temperature: we usually drink reds too warm. Room temperature is too warm. You don’t have to carry around a thermometer. Reds should be cool to the touch, that’s all.
答：当然，在一个进口商那里买三四瓶，然后再换一个进口商。你可能会碰上满意的酒。把朋友们聚到一起，品尝十几种酒。但是用正确的顺序品尝至关重要——从清淡的到浓郁的，从干葡萄酒到甜葡萄酒，从年份近的到年份远的。如果你一上来就品尝浓郁的15度果味红葡萄酒，你的味蕾将感觉不到11.5度的葡萄酒的微妙之处。另外，温度也很重要——我们喝的红酒，往往温度太高。房间温度太高。你不必用温度计测量。红酒摸着应该是凉的，就这么简单。
Q: How about alcohol level — would it make sense to shop below an arbitrary ceiling of, say, 13 percent?
问：那酒精度呢？应不应该只买某个度数以下的红酒，比如13度以下的？
A: No, no, no. If you refuse to drink wines at more than 12.5, you’ll never enjoy a great Chateauneuf-du-Pape, which is always over 12.5. That’s what was so good about them, throughout history, when you had nice rich stew or whatever. What happened is that everywhere else in the world, now they want to make 14 percent wines. So don’t throw out a 14 percent Chateauneuf. A 14 percent Muscadet, on the other hand — that might be a good one to watch go down the drain.
答：不，不，不。如果你拒绝饮用12.5度以上的红酒，那你永远都无法享受上好的教皇新堡(Chateauneuf-du-Pape)红酒，那种酒的度数总是高于12.5度。纵观整个历史，只要酿制得当或者满足其他条件，它们就会非常好喝。现在世界上很多其他地方都想生产14度的红酒了。所以不要把14度的教皇新堡红酒排除出去。但是，如果是14度的密斯卡岱(Muscadet)的话，最好的处理办法就是看着它顺着水槽流下去。
Q: How about wine regions — any specific areas people ought to check out?
问：那红酒生产区域呢？有没有哪些具体的区域需要人们格外关注？
A: Well, I’m finding nice things on the Mediterranean coast of Italy — varieties that really aren’t known. There’s one that I import, the varietal is called matàossu, it’s one guy, Paolo Ruffino, in one village, the only known vineyard of that grape in the world, and it really reflects the ocean. It’s got a salinity to it, with good flesh and a real vibrant acidity. Corsica, too. Americans haven’t really discovered Corsican wines, but La Revue des Vins de France recently called it the most exciting region in France today. The wines of Patrimonio are a good place to start — chalky soil, similar to Chablis, fossils of shellfish visible in the vineyards. If vermentino vineyards around the world were rated, Patrimonio would be the Grand Cru. They make a full-bodied, perfumed dry white that shows the stony soil to advantage. Look for the bottling of Antoine Arena or Yves Leccia, but try others if you can’t find theirs.
答：呃，我在意大利的地中海沿岸发现了一些好酒，那里的葡萄品种真的是无人知晓。我进口的那种葡萄叫matàossu，世界上只有一个葡萄园种植那种葡萄，它在一个村子里，种植人叫保罗·鲁芬诺(Paolo Ruffino)。它真的有种地中海的味道。它有一点盐度，有很好的果肉和真正有活力的酸度。科西嘉岛也很好。美国人还没有真正发现科西嘉的美酒，但是《法国葡萄酒杂志》(La Revue des Vins de France)最近说它是法国目前最让人兴奋的地区。帕特里莫尼奥(Patrimonio)的葡萄酒很值得尝试——那里的白垩质土壤与夏布利(Chablis)的土壤接近，在葡萄园里能看到贝壳类生物的化石。如果对世界各地的维蒙蒂诺葡萄园进行评级的话，帕特里莫尼奥的葡萄园将属于顶级葡萄园。那里生产的干白葡萄酒浓郁、芳香，充分体现了那里的砾质土的特点。你可以找找安托万·阿雷纳(Antoine Arena)或伊夫·莱西亚(Yves Leccia)牌的红酒，如果找不到，其他牌子的也可以。
Also Domaine Abbatucci and Domaine Canarelli — both biodynamic growers on Corsica, smart guys, both working with grape varieties even I’ve never heard of. They’re also good pals of mine and like to party. We don’t just taste after all! In early October, I had the best wild boar of my life at Abbatucci’s. A boar raised on biodynamic grapes, roasted two hours. We must have tasted 40 wines — spitting out each taste, of course — until we sat down to eat and a couple of older reds appeared, which turned out to be extremely swallowable.
还有阿巴图西(Abbatucci)和卡纳莱利(Canarelli)的葡萄园。他们两位都在科西嘉岛采用生物动力法种植葡萄。他们都很聪明，种植的葡萄品种连我都没听过。他们也是我的好朋友，喜欢聚会。我们不只是一起品尝红酒！10月初，我在阿巴图西的葡萄园吃到了我这辈子吃过的最好吃的野猪。那头野猪吃的是自然生长的葡萄，烤了两个小时才烤熟。我们差不多品尝了40种红酒——当然，每口都吐掉了。直到我们坐下来用餐才上了几杯年份更久的红酒，那些红酒非常好喝。
Q: Any food we should serve to show wines in their best light?
问：为了最好地体现红酒的美味，我们需不需要用什么特别的食物跟它搭配？
A: I don’t like pondering the food-wine question. I know a winemaker in the Loire who loves gamay with raw oysters. I didn’t freak out at the experience. It didn’t bug me. But I was thinking how much better a Chablis or Muscadet would have been and the pleasure missed, because the oysters were really tasty. And some people have weird tastes, like me. I’ve surprised more than one person by making popcorn and adding salt, dried thyme, and olive oil and serving a Raveneau Chablis with it. I call it Provençal popcorn. I can’t explain why, but I love it with Chablis.
答：我不喜欢思考食物和红酒搭配的问题。我认识卢瓦尔的一个红酒酿造者，他喜欢用加美葡萄酒搭配生牡蛎。那种搭配没有让我震惊，也没有让我烦扰。但是我当时想，要是换成夏布利酒或者密斯卡岱酒该多好啊，多好的美味给浪费了呀，因为那些牡蛎真的很好吃。有些人的口味很怪，比如我。我喜欢在做爆米花的时候，加盐、干百里香和橄榄油，然后和Raveneau夏布利酒一起上桌，我把它称为普罗旺斯爆米花，很多人见了都很是吃惊。我不知道自己为什么这么做，但是我真的喜欢用夏布利酒搭配爆米花吃。
Q: Any other recommendations? A few more bottles to help the rest of us taste what you value in wine?
问：有没有其他建议？能不能再推荐几瓶你看好的红酒，让我们其他这些人品尝一下？
A: Well, I import a custom blend of a red Côtes du Rhône that might be easy to find, it’s under my own label — 15 or 16 bucks and typical of that terroir. Another bargain is Domaine de Fontsainte rosé, labeled Gris de Gris, at around $15. It just misses being as good as any rosé in the world, at any price.
答：呃，我进口了一种定制的罗纳海岸(Côtes du Rhône)红酒，应该很容易找到，用的是我自己的品牌，定价是15或16美元，它具有那个地域的典型水土特点。另一种物美价廉的红酒是Fontsainte酒庄的玫瑰红葡萄酒，牌子是Gris de Gris，定价在15美元左右。它差不多能和世界各地任何价位的玫瑰红葡萄酒相媲美。
Q: You stopped selling American wine 30 years ago. Do you still drink any?
问：你30年前就不再销售美国红酒了。你还喝美国红酒吗？
A: When a lot of California wineries started chasing high Parker scores, I lost interest. But last year I had a 1968 Joseph Swan zinfandel that lit me up, and an older Ridge cabernet. I wish I had purchased more California cabernets and zinfandels back then. It bugs me, all those great bottles I missed.
答：当加州的很多葡萄酒厂开始追逐帕克的高分数之后，我就失去了兴趣。但是去年，我喝了一杯1968年的约瑟夫·斯万(Joseph Swan)馨芳葡萄酒(zinfandel)，它让我感到意外的惊喜，还有年份更久远的Ridge红葡萄酒。我很后悔没有多买点那个年代的加州红葡萄酒和馨芳葡萄酒。这让我很恼火：我错过了多少好喝的葡萄酒啊！
Q: How about recent California wines?
问：近些年加州的红酒如何呢？
A: Right here in Berkeley, I found a great winemaker, Steve Edmunds, working with Rhone varietals. I guess I shouldn’t be surprised — I eat better in Berkeley than I do in France these days. My son now works for me, too, and he’s been talking about California wineries dropping the heavy-oak, heavy-alcohol style. He wants me to consider adding some to our portfolio, and I’ve given him the green light to scout around.
答：就在伯克利，我找到了一个很好的红酒酿造者——史蒂夫·埃德蒙兹(Steve Edmunds)，他种的是罗纳葡萄。我不应该感到惊讶，如今我在伯克利吃到的葡萄比在法国的还好。我儿子现在也为我工作，他一直在说加州的葡萄酒酿造商们放弃了橡木味浓、酒精度高的红酒风格。他想让我考虑在我们的购买列表中加一些加州红酒，我已经允许他进行调查。
Q: Do you believe there are certain wines we should all be drinking? Or just that everybody should drink whatever they like?
问：你觉得是我们所有人都应该喝某些红酒？还是说每个人就应该只喝自己喜欢的？
A: Yeah — whatever you like, you should drink. But maybe you shouldn’t serve it to your friends.
答：是，你应该喝自己喜欢的。但是，给你的朋友们上酒的时候，也许不能只上你自己喜欢的。