BEIRUT — Emaciated corpses lie in the sand, their ribs protruding over sunken bellies, their thighs as thin as wrists. Several show signs of strangulation. The images conjure memories of some of history’s worst atrocities.
贝鲁特——沙地上躺着一具具瘦骨嶙峋的尸体，他们的肋骨突出，腹部下陷，大腿只有正常人手腕粗细。几具尸体上有被勒过的痕迹。这些图片让人很容易联想起历史上最令人发指的几次大屠杀。
Numbers inscribed on more than 11,000 bodies in 55,000 photographs said to emerge from the secret jails of Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, suggest that torture, starvation and execution are widespread and even systematic, each case logged with bureaucratic detail.
这5.5万张照片据说是从叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的秘密监狱流出的。照片上的超过1.1万具尸体上标记的数字意味着，酷刑、饥饿以及死刑普遍存在，甚至是系统性的，每个案例都有官方的详细记录。
This collection of images was identified as having been part of a voluminous archive of torture and execution maintained by the Syrian government and smuggled out by a police photographer who defected and was given the code name Caesar.
这些图片据信曾经是叙利亚政府保存的大量酷刑和死刑档案的一部分，是由一名警方摄影师偷偷带出来的。这名摄影师已经背叛阿萨德政府，他的代号是“凯撒”(Caesar)。
So far, only a few photographs have actually been released by lawyers commissioned by the Qatari government, an avowed opponent of Mr. Assad, and the claims about their origins could not be independently verified.
迄今为止，卡塔尔政府委托的律师实际上仅公开了少数几张照片。卡塔尔政府公开反对阿萨德。有关照片来源的说法无法被独立证实。
If genuine, the trove is new visual corroboration that Mr. Assad’s government is guilty of mass war crimes against its own citizens, just as it appeared to regain some international standing. The photographs were released as delegates from the Syrian government and the opposition began gathering in Switzerland for long-awaited talks to find a political solution to end almost three years of civil war.
如果真实可信，这些资料将是阿萨德政府对本国公民犯下大规模战争罪的最新证据。上述照片被曝光的同时，叙利亚政府和反对派的代表团已经聚集在瑞士，在漫长的等待之后举行会谈，以找到一个政治解决方案，结束将近三年的内战。
The Qatari government hired a team of international law experts with experience prosecuting war crimes to validate the photographs and to help explain what they reveal. The investigators say releasing more images might identify the defector, endangering his family or former colleagues, and, they say, they cannot release the images out of respect for the victims’ families.
卡塔尔政府聘请了一个拥有起诉战争罪经验的国际法律专家团队，请他们验证照片的真实性，并阐释这些照片透露出的信息。调查者说，公开更多照片可能会暴露叛逃者的身份，令他的家人以及前同事陷入危险处境，此外，他们说，出于对受害者家人的尊重，他们不能公开这些照片。
Mr. Assad’s enemies say they hope the leak, first reported in The Guardian and on CNN, will cause enough revulsion in the West to prevent any deal that might leave him in place, or perhaps prod the West into more muscular steps to remove him, just as the disclosure of the Serbian massacre at Srebrenica in 1995 moved NATO to launch airstrikes in the Balkans.
《卫报》(The Guardian)和CNN最先对这些照片进行了报道。阿萨德的敌人们说，他们希望这些照片将激起西方国家的愤慨，进而防止任何可能让他继续掌权的协议得到达成，或者，促使西方采取更强硬的措施来赶走阿萨德，就像1995年塞尔维亚人在斯雷布雷尼察实施的大屠杀促使北约(NATO)对这个巴尔干国家发动空袭一样。
But even the most determined advocates of Western intervention say the images may dramatize the moral cost of inaction but are unlikely to change it, given the apparent paucity of solutions to the crisis and the American aversion to another entanglement in the Middle East.
但是，就连最支持西方干预的人士也说，这些图片或许能够以引人注目的方式突显西方国家不作为的道义成本，但不太可能改变他们不作为的事实，因为目前尚不存在能够解决危机的方案，美国也在避免再次卷入中东的乱局之中。
“I feel like we have had at least one or two Srebrenica moments in Syria already,” said Robert Kagan, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who has pushed for American action. “The White House has completely hardened itself to whatever horrendous news might come out of Syria because the president doesn’t want to get involved.”
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的学者罗伯特·卡根(Robert Kagan)曾倡导美国采取行动。他说，“我感觉我们在叙利亚已经经历过至少一个或两个斯雷布雷尼察时刻。白宫已经彻底变得铁石心肠，无论叙利亚爆出何种骇人听闻的消息，它都无动于衷，因为总统不想卷入其中。”
The photos were made public by an anonymous military policeman who had a grim role in the bureaucracy of the Syrian security apparatus, according to a report assessing the photos’ veracity.
一份评估这些照片真实性的报告称，一位匿名的宪兵曝光了这些照片，此人在叙利亚安全机构的官僚体系中曾扮演重要角色。
The photos were used to provide death certificates to the families of the victims without turning over the bodies, and were archived as a record that the men had been killed.
这些照片被用于在不交出尸体的情况下向受害者家属提供死亡证明，并作为这些人被杀死的证据存档。
That Qatar, which has bankrolled the rebels, funded the project is also likely to raise questions, though the investigators say they worked freely.
曾经为反对派提供资金并资助了这一项目的卡塔尔也可能提出一些疑问，不过调查者说他们可以自由工作。
The Syrian government, which characterizes the insurgency as terrorist campaign backed by foreign powers, has not commented on the report.
一直把国内叛乱活动定义为由外国势力支持的恐怖行动的叙利亚政府，没有对报告置评。
At the site of the peace conference, a Syrian journalist who supports the government said the timing of the release suggested a plan to undermine the Syrian government, and he questioned the photos’ authenticity.
在和谈现场，一名支持政府的叙利亚记者说，这些照片被公开的时机选择意味着，这是一次旨在削弱叙利亚政府的阴谋，他怀疑照片的真实性。
“Who are these people?” he said, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. “Are they innocent political prisoners or are they Al Qaeda?”
这名记者说，“这些人到底是谁？他们是无辜的政治犯，还是基地组织成员？”因为担心报复，他要求匿名。
Human rights groups have long accused the Syrian government of such systematic abuses, especially since the start of the uprising three years ago.
一些人权机构长期以来一直指责叙利亚政府存在这种系统性虐囚行为，尤其是三年前国内爆发叛乱之后。
“If these photographs are authentic, the torture documented is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of the atrocities that are happening across the country,” said Lama Fakih, one author of a 2012 report by Human Rights Watch based on interviews with more than 200 former detainees and inspections of former government torture facilities in rebel-held territory.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)2012年一篇报告的一名作者拉马·法基(Lama Fakih)说，“如果照片是真实的，被记录的虐待行径就只是叙利亚整个国家所有暴行的冰山一角。”人权观察组织的这份报告的根据来自对超过200名前囚犯的采访，以及对反对派占领区的前政府虐囚设施的考察。
In Washington, Marie Harf, a State Department spokeswoman, said the images “show systematic violations of Syrians’ human rights.”
在华盛顿，国务院发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)说，这些照片“显示了叙利亚人权所遭受的长期践踏”。
The department is “committed to ensuring that Bashar al-Assad, who is the one responsible for these horrific images, cannot go on leading his country,” she said, through efforts that include through the peace conference with his government.
她说，国务院将通过与叙利亚政府举行和平谈判以及其他行动，“致力于确保阿萨德——这些恐怖图片背后的责任人，无法继续担任国家领袖”。
While the report’s authors hope it will create momentum for the prosecution of war crimes in Syria, they acknowledge that international politics are likely to block such action. Russia, a major Syrian ally, would probably veto any effort by the United Nations Security Council to refer Syria to the International Criminal Court in The Hague.
尽管报告的作者希望该报告将推动对叙利亚政府所犯战争罪的起诉，他们承认，国际政治可能会对此类行动形成障碍。联合国安理会为把叙利亚送上海牙国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)而采取的任何行动，都有可能受到叙利亚主要盟友俄罗斯的投票否决。