If you’re reading this, you are probably not buffeted by daily waves of physical terror. You may fear job loss or emotional loss, but you probably don’t fear that somebody is going to slash your throat, or that a gang will invade your house come dinnertime, carrying away your kin and property. We take a basic level of order for granted.
如果你在读这篇文章，可能就不会整日困扰于身体遭到侵犯的恐惧。你或许会担心丢掉工作、情感蒙受痛苦，但可能并不害怕有人割你的喉咙，吃饭时一伙暴徒冲进你家里带走你的家人、劫掠你的财产。对于基本的秩序，我们已经习以为常。
But billions of people live in a different emotional landscape, enveloped by hidden terror. Many of these people live in the developing world.
然而有数十亿人却生活在不同的情绪场景之中，他们深陷在隐藏的恐惧之中，其中许多人生活在发展中国家。
When we send young people out to help these regions, we tell them they are there to tackle “poverty,” using the sort of economic designation we’re comfortable with. We usually assume that scarcity is the big challenge to be faced. We send them to dig wells or bring bed nets or distribute food or money, and, of course, that’s wonderful work.
我们派遣年轻人为这些地区提供帮助时会告诉他们，去那里是为了解决“贫困”，这里使用了我们熟悉的那种经济定性。我们通常先入为主地认为，那里面临的巨大挑战是匮乏。我们派年轻人去挖井、送蚊帐、分发食品和钱，当然这些都是了不起的工作。
But as Gary A. Haugen and Victor Boutros point out in their gripping and perspective-altering book, “The Locust Effect,” these places are not just grappling with poverty. They are marked by disorder, violence and man-inflicted suffering.
然而就像加里·A·豪根(Gary A. Haugen)和维克多·布特罗斯(Victor Boutros)在《蝗虫效应》(The Locust Effect)一书中所说的，困扰这些地区的问题并不只是贫困，还有秩序混乱、暴力横生，以及人为造成的苦难。这本书引人入胜，能让读者改变视角。
“The relentless threat of violence is part of the core subtext of their lives, but we are unlikely to see it, and they are unlikely to tell us about it. We would be wise, however, to not be fooled — because, like grief, the thing we cannot see may be the deepest part of their day.”
“猖獗的暴力威胁是他们生活中核心潜台词的一部分，但我们可能看不到这一点，他们应该也不会告诉我们这些事。但如果我们不被表面所蒙蔽，就堪称明智——因为就像悲伤一样，我们所看不到的，可能正是他们生活中最深刻的部分。”
People in many parts of the world simply live beyond the apparatus of law and order. The District of Columbia spends about $850 per person per year on police. In Bangladesh, the government spends less than $1.50 per person per year on police. The cops are just not there.
在世界各地，有很多人居住在法律和秩序无法触及的地区域。华盛顿哥伦比亚特区每年在每名居民身上投入的警力支出约有850美元。而在孟加拉国，政府每年的人均治安投入只有不足1.5美元。警力根本不够。
In the United States, there is one prosecutor for every 12,000 citizens. In Malawi, there is one prosecutor for every 1.5 million citizens. The prosecutors are just not there.
在美国，每1.2万名公民就有一名检察官。但在马拉维，每150万名公民才有一名检察官。检察官根本不够。
Even when there is some legal system in place, it’s not designed to impose law and order for the people. It is there to protect the regime from the people. The well-connected want a legal system that can be bought and sold.
即使有某种司法体系的存在，其目的也不是为民众执法和维持秩序，而是保护政权不受民众冲击。有门路的人想要一个能用钱收买的司法体系。
Haugen and Boutros tell the story of an 8-year-old Peruvian girl named Yuri whose body was found in the street one morning, her skull crushed in, her legs wrapped in cables and her underwear at her ankles. The evidence pointed to a member of one of the richer families in the town, so the police and prosecutors destroyed the evidence. Her clothing went missing. A sperm sample that could have identified the perpetrator was thrown out. A bloody mattress was sliced down by a third, so that the blood stained spot could be discarded.
豪根和布特罗斯讲述了八岁秘鲁女孩尤丽(Yuri)的故事。一天早晨，人们在街头发现了尤丽的尸体，当时她的颅骨被砸碎了，腿上缠着电线，内衣褪到了脚踝的位置。有证据显示凶手来自镇上的一个富裕家庭，于是警方和检察官销毁了证据。她的衣服不见了，本来可以用来查出真凶的精液样本也被扔掉了。一张染血的床垫被割去了三分之一，这样就可以把沾上的血渍除去。
Yuri’s family wanted to find the killer, but they couldn’t afford to pay the prosecutor, so nothing was done. The family sold all their livestock to hire lawyers, who took the money but abandoned the case. These sorts of events are utterly typical — the products of legal systems that range from the arbitrary to the Kafkaesque.
尤丽的家人希望查出凶手，但是他们拿不出钱收买检察官，于是检方什么都没有做。尤丽的家人卖掉了所有牲畜聘请律师，可是律师拿了钱之后却搁置了案子。这样的情节十分典型——司法体系武断随意，甚而是卡夫卡式的，自然就会产生这样的结果。
We in the affluent world live on one side of a great global threshold. Our fundamental security was established by our ancestors. We tend to assume that the primary problems of politics are economic and that the injustices of the world can be addressed with economic levers. When empires like the Soviet Union collapse, we send in economists with privatization plans instead of cops to help create rule of law. When thuggish autocracies invade their neighbors we impose economic sanctions.
我们生活在富国的人，已经越过了一个伟大的全球门槛。我们的先辈已经为我们建立了基本的安全保障，我们倾向于认为政治和经济的主要问题，以及全世界的不公正可以通过经济杠杆来应对。苏联这样的帝国崩塌时，我们派出了经济学家制定私有化方案，而不是派出警察帮助建立法治。而恶棍似的威权国家侵略邻国时，我们也会采取经济制裁。
But people without our inherited institutions live on the other side of the threshold and have a different reality. They live within a contagion of chaos. They live where the primary realities include violence, theft and radical uncertainty. Their world is governed less by long-term economic incentives and more by raw fear. In a world without functioning institutions, predatory behavior and the passions of domination and submission blot out economic logic.
然而那些没有从先辈手中继承相应制度的人，却生活在全球门槛的另一端，面对着另一种现实。他们生活在混乱蔓延的境地，主要的现实问题包括暴力、盗窃和极端的不确定性。他们所处世界的指导原则，与其说是长期的经济激励，不如说是赤裸裸的恐惧。如果一个环境中缺乏能正常运作的制度，欺凌弱者的行为、压制他人的冲动，就会遮蔽经济的逻辑。