LONDON — Thousands of Pakistanis rallied behind the former cricketer Imran Khan on Thursday as he led a motor cavalcade toward the capital, Islamabad, for a protest to demand the resignation of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and fresh elections.
伦敦——周四，在前板球明星伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)带领车队前往巴基斯坦首都伊斯兰堡抗议时，他身后聚集了数千名巴基斯坦人。他们要求巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)辞职，并重新举行选举。
The rally started in the city of Lahore, 160 miles to the south, with dancing and singing from Mr. Khan’s boisterous supporters. It was expected to reach Islamabad, the capital, as early as Friday afternoon. A smaller group, also bound for Islamabad, was led by Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri, a cleric who has promised a “peaceful revolution” in Pakistan.
游行的起点是伊斯兰堡以南160英里（约合260公里）的拉合尔，伊姆兰·汗的支持者们一路喧闹地载歌载舞。人群预计最早会于周五下午抵达首都伊斯兰堡。同时，神职人员穆罕默德·塔希尔·卡德里(Muhammad Tahir-ul Qadri)也带领着规模较小的人群，前往伊斯兰堡。卡德里承诺要在巴基斯坦开展一场“和平革命”。
The march, timed to coincide with the 67th anniversary of Pakistan’s independence, followed weeks of growing political tension in the country. It is the strongest challenge yet to Mr. Sharif’s 14-month-old government.
此次游行的时间，安排在巴基斯坦独立67周年之际。此前数周，该国政治局势日益紧张。这是谢里夫领导的政府成立14个月以来，面临的最严峻的一次挑战。
Apparently rattled by plans for the protest, the government employed heavy-handed tactics in recent weeks. Riot police officers clashed with Mr. Qadri’s supporters across Punjab Province last weekend, resulting in at least two deaths. Mr. Sharif closed roads leading to Islamabad and invoked public-order laws that ban meetings on its streets.
显然是因为对抗议的计划感到紧张不安，政府最近几周采取了严厉的打压。上周末，防暴警察与旁遮普省各地的卡德里支持者发生冲突，导致至少两人死亡。谢里夫关闭了通往伊斯兰堡的公路，还援用了禁止街头集会的公共秩序法律。
His reaction appeared to stem in part from speculation that the political tumult could open the way for a military coup — a fate that Mr. Sharif suffered in 1999, leading to his imprisonment and then seven years in exile. But by late Thursday, those fears had dissipated somewhat after the government reluctantly agreed to allow the protests to proceed.
他做出这种反应的部分原因似乎是，他揣测政治骚乱可能会为军事政变开辟道路——1999年时，谢里夫便经历了这样的遭遇。那场政变导致他被捕入狱，后来又流亡了七年。但到周四晚上，这种担忧似乎缓和了一些，政府勉勉强强地允许了抗议继续进行。
Mr. Sharif also made a show of unity with the military leadership, appearing twice alongside the powerful army chief, Gen. Raheel Sharif. Late Wednesday, the two men, who are not related, attended a military ceremony outside Parliament. On Thursday, they traveled to insurgency-stricken Baluchistan Province for a ceremony to mark the reopening of Ziarat House, a former residence of Pakistan’s founding father, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. The house was burned to the ground last year by Baluch separatists.
谢里夫还两次与大权在握的陆军参谋长拉希勒·谢里夫中将(Lt. Gen. Raheel Sharif)一同现身，以此显示与军方领导人的团结。两人没有亲属关系。周三晚上，他们出席了在议会外面举行的一场军事典礼。周四，他们又前往深受叛乱影响的俾路支省，参加庆祝巴基斯坦国父穆罕默德·阿里·真纳(Muhammad Ali Jinnah)故居重新开放的仪式。去年，那处房屋被俾路支分离主义者烧成了平地。
“The country cannot afford any more subversion and negative politics,” Mr. Sharif said in a speech.
“这个国家再也经不起颠覆和消极政治了，”谢里夫在讲话中说。
Mr. Khan’s “independence march,” as he calls it, is driven by accusations that Mr. Sharif’s party rigged the general election in May 2013. The results handed Mr. Sharif a handsome majority in Parliament, although Mr. Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party won control of the provincial government in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province.
伊姆兰·汗称自己领导的活动是“独立游行”。引发这场游行的原因是，有人指责谢里夫操纵了2013年5月的大选。那场选举的结果让谢里夫在议会获得了可观的多数席位，而伊姆兰·汗领导的巴基斯坦正义运动党(Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf)则赢得了对开伯尔-普什图省政府的控制权。
The popularity of Mr. Khan, 61, a former captain of the national cricket team and an enduring sex symbol — he was photographed bare-chested outside his home this week — is built on his appeal to young Pakistanis who have become disillusioned by traditional politics. In recent days, supporters camped outside his home in Lahore’s Zaman Park neighborhood. Several spoke of “revolution.”
现年61岁的伊姆兰·汗曾是国家板球队的队长，也是一个经久不衰的性感偶像。本周，他还在自家屋外被拍到赤裸上身。伊姆兰·汗的人气来源于他在巴基斯坦年轻人当中的吸引力，后者对传统的政治感到失望。最近几天，支持者在他位于拉合尔扎曼公园(Zaman Park)社区的家四周安营扎寨，有几个支持者还谈到了“革命”。
“We will go to Islamabad and sit there for days, months and even years until our demands are met,” said Ayesha Ahmed, a Lahore woman in her early 30s who wore a dress in the colors of Mr. Khan’s party.
30岁出头的拉哈尔女子阿伊莎· 艾哈迈德(Ayesha Ahmed)表示，“我们会前往伊斯兰堡，在那里静坐几天、几个月甚至几年，直到我们的要求得到满足。”她身穿的衣服正是伊姆兰·汗所在政党的标志性颜色。
But Mr. Khan has also faced criticism from critics who see his protest as a power grab by an electoral loser, and a needless distraction when Pakistan is facing pressing challenges from an ailing economy and Islamist insurgents. The army has been fighting in North Waziristan, home of the Taliban rebellion, since mid-June.
但伊姆兰·汗也受到了指责。批评人士认为，此次抗议是选举中的失败者攫取权力的手段，当前巴基斯坦正面临着疲软经济及伊斯兰派叛乱分子带来的挑战，抗议会使人不必要地分心。自6月中旬以来，军方一直在塔利班叛军盘踞的北瓦济里斯坦作战。
“We should by now have learned from our history,” Kamila Hyat, a prominent human rights activist, wrote on Thursday in The News, a daily newspaper based in Karachi. “Disrupting democracy, demanding elected leaders resign or grappling for power has never served us well before.”
“到如今，我们应该已经从历史中得到了教训，”知名人权活动人士卡米拉·亚特(Kamila Hyat)周四在卡拉奇的日报《新闻报》(The News)上发表文章称。“扰乱民主，要求民选领导人辞职，或者夺取权力的做法，过去从未给我们带来过好的结果。”
The picture is further complicated by the return of Mr. Qadri, who normally lives in Canada and who led protests in January 2013 against the previous government, which was headed by President Asif Ali Zardari. Although Mr. Qadri’s party has no seats in Parliament, Mr. Sharif inadvertently bolstered his credentials in June when riot police officers violently clashed with Mr. Qadri’s supporters in Lahore, resulting in at least nine deaths.
卡德里的回归使局势变得更加复杂。通常居住在加拿大的卡德里曾在2013年1月领导抗议活动，反对由总统阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里(Asif Ali Zardari)领导的上一届政府。虽然卡德里所在的政党没有获得议会席位，但谢里夫在今年6月无意间增强了卡德里领导抗议的资格，当时防暴警察与卡德里的支持者在拉合尔爆发激烈冲突，结果导致至少九人死亡。
Although Mr. Qadri and Mr. Khan lead separate protest groups, they have formed a loose alliance and seemed set to appear, separately, on the streets of Islamabad on Friday. Government officials said the protesters would be allowed to demonstrate at Zero Point, a major traffic intersection on the edge of the city.
虽然卡德里和伊姆兰·汗领导着不同的抗议组织，但他们结成了一个松散的联盟，似乎准备于周五分别在伊斯兰堡街头举行抗议活动。政府官员表示，抗议者可以该市边缘区域名为零点(Zero Point)的主要十字路口示威。
Mr. Khan said he intended to lead a sit-in until his demands were met. His party published a photo showing him packing overnight belongings into a bag from Selfridges, a high-end London department store. Critics on social media said the picture belied his image as a man of the people.
伊姆兰·汗表示，他打算领导静坐活动，直到他的要求得到满足为止。他所在的政党发布的一张照片显示，他正在夜间收拾物品，并将物品放入伦敦高端百货店Selfridges的袋子里。社交媒体上的批评者称，这张图片与他代表民众的形象不相符。