The manuscripts of Emily Dickinson have long been scattered across multiple archives, meaning scholars had to knock on numerous doors to see all the handwritten drafts of a poet whose work went almost entirely unpublished in her lifetime.
长期以来，艾米莉·狄金森(Emily Dickinson)的手稿一直散落在多家档案馆。这意味着，学者们必须要去很多地方，才能见到这位生前几乎从未发表过作品的诗人的全部手写草稿。
The online Emily Dickinson Archive, to be inaugurated on Wednesday, promises to change all that by bringing together on a single open-access Web site thousands of manuscripts held by Harvard University, Amherst College, the Boston Public Library and five other institutions. Now, scholars and lay readers alike will be able to browse easily through handwritten versions of favorite poems, puzzle over lines that snake along the edges of used envelopes and other scraps of paper, or zoom in on one of Dickinson’s famous dashes until it almost fills the screen.
将于周三上线的在线艾米莉·狄金森档案馆(Emily Dickinson Archive)承诺改变这种局面，将把哈佛大学(Harvard University)、阿默斯特学院(Amherst College)、波士顿公共图书馆(Boston Public Library)和其他五个机构收藏的数千份手稿收集在一起，放在这个开放访问的网站上。现在，学者和普通读者都能轻轻松松浏览自己最喜爱的诗作手稿、思忖那些蜿蜒在旧信封和其他碎纸片边角上的字句，甚至将狄金森有名的破折号放大到几乎全屏的尺寸。
“To have all these manuscripts together on one site and to have it so thoroughly searchable is extraordinary,” said Cristanne Miller, a professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo and a member of the project’s advisory board.
“把所有这些手稿放到一个网站上，而且能搜索全部内容，这真是一件了不起的事情，”纽约州立大学布法罗分校(State University of New York at Buffalo)教授克丽斯丹·米勒(Cristanne Miller)说。她也是该项目顾问委员会的成员之一。
But the project, organized and financed by Harvard, has also generated enough behind-the-scenes intrigue to fill an imaginary Journal of Emily Dickinson Studies Studies, as one board member jokingly put it.
但同时，这个由哈佛大学出资和组织的项目也引发了许多幕后的纷争。委员会的一名成员开玩笑说，假如有一本叫《艾米莉·狄金森研究研究》的期刊，这些情节就足以写满一本。
Since planning began two years ago, there has been a revival of decades-old tensions between Harvard and Amherst, which hold the two largest Dickinson collections. And sometimes-bitter debate has flared on the advisory board, with some members saying that Harvard’s choice of which materials to include provides too narrow an answer to a basic question: Just what counts as an Emily Dickinson “poem,” anyway?
哈佛大学和阿默斯特学院收藏有最多的两批狄金森手稿，从这个项目两年前开始计划以来，双方持续了数十年之久的紧张关系再度告急。顾问委员会也上演了时而尖锐的争执。一些成员称，哈佛大学在收录哪些材料上的选择，对于一个基本问题给出的答案太过狭隘了。这个问题就是：到底什么算是艾米莉·狄金森的“诗”？
“The scholarship with any major figure produces factions and divisions,” said Christopher Benfey, a Dickinson scholar at Mount Holyoke College, who is not involved with the project. “But with Dickinson, the truly bizarre thing is the quarrel has been handed to generation after generation after generation.”
“对任何重要人物开展的学术研究，都会产生派系和分歧，”曼荷莲学院(Mount Holyoke College)研究狄金森的学者克里斯托弗·本菲(Christopher Benfey)说，“但在狄金森研究上，真正奇怪的是，争论被一代又一代地传承了下来。”本菲没有参与这个项目。
The trouble began when Dickinson died, in 1886, leaving behind just 10 published poems and a vast and enigmatic handwritten paper trail, ranging from finished-seeming poems assembled into hand-sewn books to fragments inscribed on advertising fliers, envelope flaps, brown household paper, even a chocolate wrapper.
麻烦始于狄金森1886年离世时。狄金森只留下了10首发表过的诗和大量谜一般的手写的字迹。有一些看起来像是已经完成的诗作，收集在一起后手工装订成册；也有零散的断章，写在广告传单、信封封盖、牛皮纸，甚至还有一张巧克力包装纸上。
After finding a cache of writings in a locked chest, Dickinson’s sister Lavinia gave them first to Susan Dickinson, the wife of their brother, Austin, to organize and publish. When Susan worked too slowly, the papers went to Austin’s mistress, Mabel Loomis Todd, who helped edit the first published edition of Emily Dickinson’s poems. Todd subsequently claimed ownership to some manuscripts, furthering a long-running legal dispute called “the war between the houses.”
在一个锁着的柜子里发现了被藏着的作品后，艾米莉的妹妹拉维尼娅(Lavinia)先是将手稿交给了嫂嫂苏珊·狄金森(Susan Dickinson)，让她进行整理并发表。苏珊·狄金森是姐妹俩的哥哥奥斯汀(Austin)的妻子。因为苏珊的工作进度太慢，那些作品又到了奥斯汀的情妇梅布尔·卢米斯·托德(Mabel Loomis Todd)的手里。托德帮助编辑了第一版公开出版的艾米莉·狄金森诗集。后来，托德主张部分手稿为自己所有，加剧了一场耗时良久的法律纠纷，堪称“家族大纷争”。
Material from Austin’s descendants went to Harvard in 1950, while Todd’s material went to Amherst in 1956. Since then, there have been tensions over copyright and boasting over whose collection is bigger and better.
1950年，哈佛大学得到了来自奥斯汀后人的手稿，而托德持有的手稿则于1956年被阿默斯特学院收藏。自那时以来，版权问题，以及谁的收藏规模更大、质量更好的夸口，使得双方的关系一直很紧张。
“They have the furniture, we have the daguerreotype; they have the herbarium, we have the hair,” said Michael Kelly, the head of archives and special collections at the Frost Library at Amherst and a member of the online archive’s advisory board.
“他们有手稿被发现时的家具，我们有用银版摄影法拍摄的授权肖像；他们有标本，我们有头发，”阿默斯特学院弗罗斯特图书馆(Frost Library)负责档案和特殊藏品的迈克尔·凯利(Michael Kelly)说。他也是这个在线档案馆的顾问委员会成员之一。
But last week casual trash-talk turned to sharper jostling, when Amherst had one of its lawyers call Harvard to demand that it provide Amherst with digital copies of its Dickinson holdings as specified in a July agreement between the institutions.
但上周，当阿默斯特学院让自己的律师打电话给哈佛大学，要求哈佛按照双方7月达成的一份协议规定，向阿默斯特学院提供自己收藏的狄金森手稿的电子版时，普通争吵加剧成了更尖锐的冲突。
“No one ever threatened a lawsuit,” Mr. Kelly said of the exchange, which was reported on Sunday by The Boston Globe. “We were just reminding them that we had an agreement. They have followed it to the letter.”
凯利形容那场争执说，“谁都没有威胁说要打官司。”上周，《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)报道了这场纷争。“我们只是提醒他们，我们之间有一份协议。他们已经完全履行了协议。”
Harvard insists that it has not been trying to outmuscle anyone. “I’m disappointed to be pulled back to a situation from the past, where ownership is the most important thing,” said Leslie M. Morris, the curator of modern books and manuscripts at the Houghton Library at Harvard and the project’s general editor.
哈佛大学则坚持表示自己从来没有倚仗实力压制对方。“我很遗憾，又退回到了过去那种把所有权看得最重的情形，”哈佛大学霍顿图书馆(Houghton Library)现代书籍与手稿馆馆长、该项目总编辑莱斯莉·M·莫里斯(Leslie M. Morris)说。
Last year Amherst posted all its Dickinson manuscripts on an open-access Web site. Harvard, however, has until now allowed little of its Dickinson material to be publicly available online. But the aim of the joint digital archive, Ms. Morris said, “was to downplay the issue of ownership and focus on Emily Dickinson and her manuscripts.”
去年，阿默斯特学院将自己收藏的所有狄金森手稿发布在了一个能够公开访问的网站上。然而此前，哈佛大学也一直只允许极少量和狄金森有关的材料在网上公开展示。但莫里斯说，联合建立数字档案馆的目的，“是为了淡化所有权问题，把关注点放在艾米莉·狄金森和她的手稿上。”
Dickinson scholars have long hotly argued over questions like her sexuality and her reasons for not publishing, along with issues that might strike ordinary readers as bafflingly arcane, from the precise angle and length of her dashes to the significance of the way she stacked the pages of her handmade books before sewing them together.
长期以来，研究狄金森的学者一直在激烈争论，辩题包括她的性取向、不发表作品的原因，以及其他一些普通读者或许会觉得难以理解的问题，包括她划的破折号的精确角度和长度，以及她在把书页手工穿针引线装订成册前，叠放书页的方式具有怎样的意义。
And the advisory board found itself sometimes harshly divided over basic philosophical issues, starting with Harvard’s decision to limit the digital archive to manuscripts relating to the 1,789 poems identified in Ralph Franklin’s three-volume “Poems of Emily Dickinson,” published in 1998 by Harvard University Press.
顾问委员会发现，有时在一些基本的哲学问题上，委员会内部存在严重分歧。第一个这样的问题是，哈佛大学决定，数字档案馆只收录拉尔夫·富兰克林(Ralph Franklin)勘校的三卷本《艾米莉·狄金森诗集》(Poems of Emily Dickinson)中认可的那1789首诗的手稿。这部三卷本的诗集由哈佛大学出版社(Harvard University Press)在1998年出版。
“What this site does is reaffirm that Franklin’s text is the ultimate authority, instead of opening it up,” Mr. Kelly said. “It’s a missed opportunity.”
“这个网站所做的，是重申富兰克林选定的文本是最终的权威，而不是将其开放，”凯利说，“这样做错过了一个机会。”
By leaving out most of Dickinson’s so-called scraps (as scholars somewhat reluctantly call the fragments from after 1875, when she seems to have stopped copying out clean versions of poems), along with passages from letters not included in Mr. Franklin’s edition but identified by other experts as poems, the archive plays down Dickinson’s evolution toward more radically experimental forms, some scholars assert.
学者们有些不情愿地将1875年以后狄金森写下的断章称为“残稿”，从那时起狄金森似乎已经不再清晰地誊写诗作了。一些学者主张，不收录狄金森大部分的“残稿”，以及一些信件中的段落，这个数字档案馆淡化了狄金森朝试验性远远更强的形式的转变，那些段落没有被富兰克林收录，但其他一些学者却认作是诗。
“She was continually challenging the boundaries of genre,” said Marta Werner, a professor at D’Youville College in Buffalo and the creator of “Radical Scatters,” a 1999 digital project based on the scraps, which are mostly held by Amherst. “She was someone who wrote all the time, and by the end she was writing on everything.”
“她一直在挑战着文学体裁的界限，”布法罗德尤维尔学院(D’Youville College)教授玛尔塔·维尔纳(Marta Werner)说，“她一直在写作，到最后，她的写作开始涉及方方面面。”1999年，维尔纳以这些残篇为基础，创造了题为“激进的散片”(Radical Scatters)的数字项目，那些碎片大部分收藏在阿默斯特学院。