When Ottessa Moshfegh published her debut novel, “Eileen,” last August, she did so without an online publicity apparatus.
去年8月，奥特莎·莫什费格(Ottessa Moshfegh)出版她的处女小说《艾琳》(Eileen)时，没有使用任何网络宣传工具。
Vanity Fair noted that Ms. Moshfegh, 34, was an anomaly because she had neither social media profiles nor a website. There wasn’t much personal information floating around about her, either. Ms. Moshfegh had made herself (apart from her work) somewhat un-Googleable.
《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)发现，34岁的莫什费格十分反常，既没有社交媒体简介，也没有自己的网站。在网上也找不到她的很多个人信息。莫什费格让自己“谷歌不到”（除了她的作品）。
As distress and distaste swirl around issues of privacy, exhibitionism and other occupational hazards of social media, a select few holdouts of the tech-savvy age are following Ms. Moshfegh’s example. According to the Pew Research Center, in 2015, 90 percent of American adults ages 18 to 29 used a social networking site; more than three-quarters of those 30 to 49 did. (The percentages for those who have online access were, expectedly, slightly higher.)
由于社交媒体暴露个人隐私、助长自我宣传癖等职业危害越来越令人苦恼和厌恶，一小部分坚决抵制技术时代的人效仿着莫什费格的做法。据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的报告，2015年，90%的18岁至29岁美国成年人使用社交媒体；这个比例在30岁至49岁人群中超过75%（和预期的一样，在能随时上网的人群中，这个比例更高一点）。
This leaves a stubbornly resistant minority that isn’t focusing its energies on just one or two social media accounts, as is customary for people who find the whole enterprise overwhelming or irrelevant. They are eschewing it completely: sharing zero voluntary personal information on the web.
那一小部分坚决抵制的人不把自己的精力放在一两个社交媒体账户上，他们觉得那让人难以承受或者与自己无关。他们彻底避开社交媒体，没有在网上主动透露过自己的一点信息。
A main criticism of social media is its vending of user data to interested buyers. “All it does is provide a vulnerable attack surface to the world,” wrote a pseudonymous commenter on a Reddit thread asking people why they weren’t on Facebook. “Every service it claims to provide, I already have, without me, my friends and family having our privacy compromised and sold to every comer.”
社交媒体遭到的一个主要批评是它把用户数据卖给感兴趣的买家。在Reddit网站关于人们为什么不用Facebook的讨论中，一位匿名用户说，“它唯一的作用就是给这个世界提供一个易受攻击的平面。它提供的所有服务，我已经有了。就算我不用，我的朋友和家人也已经把我们的隐私泄露和出卖给每个能看见的人了。”
Since one is barraged with hundreds of online and offline advertisements a day, though, this may seem like a benign issue. But something more pernicious may be looming, said Patrick Flanery, whose forthcoming novel, “I Am No One,” deals explicitly with surveillance and data collection.
不过，我们每天都会收到上千个线上或线下广告，所以这个问题可能看起来不算严重。但是，帕特里克·弗拉尼里(Patrick Flanery)说，更有害的可能正在降临。他即将出版的小说《我谁也不是》(I Am No One)毫不隐晦地探讨监视和数据收集问题。
“We are betraying things about our location and social relationships,” said Mr. Flanery, 40. “Even if it may only be used for corporations to sell us stuff, then that’s also assuming that the corporations collecting that data aren’t moving toward a different emphasis — that they’re only engaged in a kind of selling, rather than something that is a government by proxy.”
40岁的弗拉尼里说，“我们在泄露自己的位置和社会关系。就算它可能只是被一些公司用于推销，那也是假设收集这些数据的公司不是为了另一个目的——是假设他们只是为了销售，而不是政府的某种代理人。”
As for the genuine, not-by-proxy government, our fears about its intrusion — which reached their zenith after Edward Snowden’s revelations about National Security Agency practices in 2013 — may have diverted attention from purely corporate oversight of our online habits. We are so focused on casting the N.S.A. as a modern-day Stasi that we have become less suspicious of Facebook, Twitter and the like, except when news articles crop up about their collaboration with the government.
至于不通过代理直接进行监视的政府，我们对其侵犯的恐惧——在2013年爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)泄露国家安全局(National Security Agency)的行为之后达到顶峰——可能转移了我们对公司监视行为的关注。我们集中精力声讨国家安全局是当代的斯塔西（Stasi，前东德国家安全部，曾经是世界上比较强大的情报机构——译注），所以对Facebook和Twitter等社交媒体的质疑减少了，直到一些新闻文章突然爆出他们与政府的勾结。
With the phrase “vulnerable attack surface to the world,” the Reddit user suggested another problem beyond Orwellian surveillance: We are now one another’s Big Brother. Social media accounts further expose oneself to hackers or, via a single tone-deaf misstep, a global public shaming.
Reddit上那位用户所说的“给这个世界提供一个易受攻击的平面”反映出奥威尔式监视之外的另一个问题：现在我们是彼此的“老大哥”。社交媒体账户进一步把我们暴露给黑客，一个误操作就可能让我们在全球公众面前丢脸。
Yet even outside of these obviously dangerous waters, releasing an identity into the digital world remains discomfiting to some. Once your data is online, it no longer belongs wholly to you; subject to reposting and comments, the data you generate gets tossed into the Internet’s melting pot.
不过，就算你处在这些明显的危险水域之外，把个人身份泄露到数字世界仍会让有些人感到不适。一旦你的数据泄露到网上，它就不再完全属于你，而是会被转发和评论，你制造的数据就被丢进互联网的大熔炉里。
Mr. Flanery, who joined Facebook in 2007 but now maintains only a public page, said he was initially unconcerned about what he posted because he was judicious about whose friend requests he accepted. But as his roster of connections expanded, he became more cautious. “I was posting willy-nilly and commenting and being quite free, as if I was talking to a closed circle of friends,” he said. “It was only gradually that I began to realize the visibility of my posts on other people’s pages, to a body whose makeup I couldn’t police.”
弗拉尼里2007年开始使用Facebook，不过现在只保留一个社区主页。他说，最初他并不为自己发布的东西感到担忧，因为他在接受添加好友请求时非常审慎。但是随着他的关系网不断扩大，他变得越来越谨慎。“一开始，我随意发帖、评论，随心所欲，就像在对一群朋友说话，”他说，“后来我才慢慢意识到，我的帖子可以出现在其他人的页面上，而这群人的组成是我无法控制的。”
Not only can information circulate beyond intended recipients, but people like Isabel Howe, 33, the executive director of the Authors League Fund in New York, find the one-size-fits-all approach to social networks too unwieldy for their personalities. “I wouldn’t call myself a secretive person,” she said. “But I do want the freedom to vary my level of self-exposure according to circumstance.”
信息会流传到你的目标接收者之外——就连33岁的纽约作家联盟基金会(Authors League Fund)执行总监伊莎贝尔·豪(Isabel Howe)这样的人都觉得一刀切的社交网络模式太不照顾他们的个性了。她说：“我觉得我并不是喜欢搞神秘，但我的确希望能够根据情况自由调整自我暴露的程度。”
One can, of course, activate stringent privacy measures, set up alternative accounts for specific relationships (like one that excludes co-workers) or not post anything and simply “lurk.” But that’s a headache, and not foolproof; another user can still tag or refer to your avatar in a way that feels more invasive than merely naming you.
当然，你可以采取严格的隐私保护措施，为不同的关系网设立不同的账户（比如设一个账户把同事排除在外），或者不发布任何消息，只是“潜水”。不过，那很麻烦，并不简便。其他用户依然可以加标签提到你，甚至关联你的头像，那比只提你的名字更具侵犯性。
“It was making me hate everyone,” Ms. Moshfegh, who closed her Facebook and Twitter accounts before her book came out, said in a phone interview.
莫什费格在出书前关闭了自己的Facebook和Twitter账户。她在接受电话采访时说：“它让我憎恨所有人。”
“I don’t know anybody who comes across in any kind of positive way on social media,” she said. “It made me feel bad, like there was a standard for living that I didn’t even know about, and that I hated so much that, if I ever had to be in touch with that standard, I was going to kill somebody.”
“我没在社交媒体上看到一个释放正能量的人，”她说，“这让我感觉很糟，它就像一种我从没听过的生活标准，我太讨厌它了，如果我必须和它保持联系，那我就要杀人了。”
The blatant desire for recognition is what most irritated her. “It seemed like everybody wants to be a celebrity,” Ms. Moshfegh said. “As soon as anybody started to know who I was, being on Facebook was so incredibly tacky.”
最让她恼怒的是对知名度的公然渴望。“好像每个人都想变成名人，”莫什费格说，“只要有人开始知道我是谁，我在Facebook上出现就显得特别俗气。”
Ms. Moshfegh has the advantage, it must be noted, of a professional team behind her to publicize her efforts. Likewise, it’s no great sacrifice when someone of George Clooney’s stature swears off social media, as he has little to gain and much to lose from it. But for a person in the early stages of a career dependent on gaining attention, whether one is a literary novelist or an entrepreneur, to do so is a genuine risk.
必须指出，莫什费格有她自己的优势，她背后有一个职业团队宣传她的作品。同样地，和乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)一样有声望的人放弃社交媒体也没太大损失，因为他从社交媒体上得不到什么，反而会失去很多。但是，如果一个人刚展开一项依赖于众人关注的事业——不管是小说家还是企业家——这样做就真的很冒险。
Ms. Moshfegh, though, pointed to some of the pitfalls of being an active social networker. “I remember putting in my name to see what people were saying on Twitter about me a lot, and occasionally finding something negative and being really upset by it,” she said.
不过，莫什费格提到积极参与社交媒体的一些隐患。“我记得我以前经常在Twitter上搜索别人对我的评价，偶尔会发现一些负面评价，就特别难过，”她说。
And not being on social media can, in fact, yield brand-building benefits, especially for an artist.
而且，实际上，不使用社交媒体会给品牌塑造带来一些好处，尤其是对艺术家们来说。
As hoi polloi shamelessly promote themselves, bestow disingenuous praise upon colleagues in hopes of receiving it in return and peck out snarkily hashtagged jokes during awards shows, the person who remains offline accrues mystique and is viewed as nobly intentioned, an elusive object of fascination rather than an accessible subject of self-glorification. Who knows how they’re spending their time? Likely working hard for some transcendent and paradigm-shifting purpose, their online absence suggests.
民众无耻地宣传自己，给予同事虚伪的赞美，以期换来同样的回报，在颁奖礼进行时费力地开一些尖刻的玩笑并加上话题标签，而那个不上线的人却能保持神秘感，被认为是出于高尚的用意，成为令人着迷的神秘人物，而不是自命不凡的容易接近的人。谁知道那些不在线的人在干什么呢？很可能是在努力进行一些卓越的树立新典范的活动。
But post a tweet, and everyone knows what you’re doing at that moment: idly looking at a screen, chasing after notice.
但是，如果你在Twitter上发一条消息，所有人都知道你此刻在干什么：无所事事地刷屏。