WASHINGTON — Several women who came forward during the 2016 campaign to accuse Donald J. Trump of sexual misconduct renewed their allegations publicly on Monday, betting that recently aggressive attitudes against harassment will give their stories new life and demanding that Congress investigate the president’s actions.
华盛顿——周一，几名曾在2016年总统竞选期间站出来指控唐纳德·J·特朗普不当性行为的女性再次公开控诉。她们认为，最近对性骚扰的强硬态度将给予她们的故事新的生命，并要求国会调查总统的行为。
The women said that they were frustrated that their stories about what they described as Mr. Trump’s actions did not have a greater effect on his campaign. But they also expressed hope that they would be taken more seriously after a torrent of similar accusations had toppled the careers of powerful men in the news media, business and politics.
这些女性说，她们讲述的有关特朗普的行为的故事，没有对他的竞选产生更大的影响，令她们感到失望。但她们也表示，在一连串的类似指控导致新闻媒体、商界和政界多名有影响力的男性职业生涯被毁后，希望这些故事能受到更严肃的对待。
“Now it’s just like, ‘All right let’s try Round 2, the environment is different, let’s try again,’” Samantha Holvey, a former contestant in the Miss USA pageant, said Monday morning on the NBC program “Megyn Kelly Today.” She repeated her charge that Mr. Trump ogled her and other women in the pageant’s hair and makeup room.
“现在就像是‘好，咱们试试第二轮，环境不同了，再试试，’”参加过美国小姐选美比赛的萨曼莎·霍尔韦(Samantha Holvey)周一上午在NBC的节目《梅根·凯利今日秀》(Megyn Kelly Today)上说。她再次指控特朗普在选美大赛的发型和化妆室里色眯眯地盯着她和其他女性。
Ms. Holvey was joined by Jessica Leeds, who has said Mr. Trump groped and kissed her during a flight in the 1970s, and Rachel Crooks, who has accused Mr. Trump of repeatedly kissing her outside her office in Trump Tower. Lisa Boyne, a fourth accuser, joined the women at a news conference hosted by Brave New Films, a documentary film company.
除霍尔韦外，还有杰茜卡·利茲(Jessica Leeds)和蕾切尔·克鲁克斯(Rachel Crooks)。利兹称特朗普曾在70年代的一次飞行途中摸她和亲吻她，克鲁克斯则指控特朗普多次在她位于特朗普大厦的办公室外面亲吻她。在纪录片公司勇敢新电影(Brave New Films)举行的新闻发布会上，莉萨·博伊恩(Lisa Boyne)加入了她们的行列。
“After the meal was cleared, all of a sudden, he was all over me, kissing and groping and groping and kissing,” Ms. Leeds said. “My memory of it was, nothing was said. He didn’t say, ‘Oh, by the way,’ and I didn’t go, ‘Eek’ or ‘Help’ or whatever; it was just this silent groping going on.”
“用完餐后，突然他就对我上下其手了，又亲又摸，又摸又亲，”利兹说。“我记得他什么都没说。他没有说，‘哦，顺便说一下’，我也没有喊‘哎呀’或‘救命’什么的。他就一直悄无声息地摸。”
The effort by the women to attract new attention to the allegations comes amid rapidly shifting attitudes in American society about the need to hold men accountable for their treatment of women, even for acts perpetrated long ago. Several high-profile television anchors have been fired from their jobs after being accused of inappropriate touching, exposing themselves or assaulting women in the workplace.
在这些女性尝试让她们的指控重新获得关注的同时，对于让男性为他们对待女性的方式负责——即便是很久以前的行为——美国社会的态度正在发生迅速改变。在被控在工作场所不恰当地触摸或侵犯女性或露阴后，多名知名电视节目主持人被解雇。
Allegations of sexual assault against Roy S. Moore, the Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama, have roiled the special election in that state, where voting is to take place on Tuesday. Mr. Trump’s decision to endorse Mr. Moore despite accusations that the Senate candidate once fondled a 14-year-old girl, has highlighted the president’s own accusations.
对亚拉巴马州共和党参议员候选人罗伊·S·摩尔(Roy S. Moore)的性侵犯指控扰乱了该州将于周二投票的补选。尽管摩尔被指曾猥亵一名14岁女孩，特朗普仍决定为他背书。这让针对总统自己的指控更加惹眼。
On Monday, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, added her name to a short list of Democratic lawmakers who have called on Mr. Trump to resign because of the sexual misconduct accusations lodged against him.
周一，纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten Gillibrand)加入少数几名民主党议员的行列，要求特朗普因这些性行为不当指控而辞职。
“President Trump has committed assault, according to these women,” Ms. Gillibrand said Monday afternoon on CNN. “And those are very credible allegations of misconduct and criminal activity, and he should be fully investigated and he should resign.” She echoed the comments of the women, saying that Congress should investigate.
“据这些女性说，特朗普总统实施了侵犯，”陆天娜周一下午在CNN上说。“这些都是非常可信的不当行为和犯罪活动指控，他应该受到全面调查，应该辞职。”她重复了这些女性的表述，称国会应该进行调查。
Whether the president will hold himself accountable “is something you really can’t hold your breath for, so Congress should have hearings,” Ms. Gillibrand said.
总统是否应该对自己的所作所为负责“是那种真的不能等的的事，因此国会应该举行听证会”，陆天娜说。
This month, Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, called on the president to step down because of a track record of “horrific conduct” with women. Senator Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont, said on Sunday that the president “has been accused by many women of assault” and urged him to consider resigning the way that Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, agreed to do after multiple allegations of inappropriate behavior. Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, told Vice News on Sunday that the accusations by the women against Mr. Trump were “far more damning.”
本月，俄勒冈州民主党参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)呼吁总统下台，因为总统曾对多名女性有过“可怕的行为”。佛蒙特州无党派参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)周日表示，总统“遭到多名女性指控性侵”，敦促他考虑像明尼苏达州民主党参议员阿尔·弗兰肯(Al Franken)那样，在遭到多项不当行为指控后辞职。新泽西州民主党参议员科里·布克(Cory Booker)周日在接受Vice新闻采访时表示，那些女性对特朗普的指控“要严重得多”。
White House officials on Monday repeated the president’s claim that the accusations of sexual misconduct were false and that the women were lying.
白宫官员周一重申了总统的说法，称那些不当性行为指控是编造出来的，那些女性在撒谎。
“The president has directly responded and said that these allegations are false and that’s what I’m doing in relaying that information to you,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters. Asked whether Congress should investigate, Ms. Sanders noted that voters had already made a judgment about the allegations.
“总统已经直接做出了回应，称那些指控是编造出来的，我只是向你们转述总统的话，”白宫新闻秘书萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)对记者们说。在被问及国会是否应该调查时，桑德斯指出，选民已经对那些指控做出了判断。
“This took place long before he was elected to be president,” Ms. Sanders said. “And the people of this country, at a decisive election, supported President Trump, and we feel like these allegations have been answered through that process.”
“这发生在他当选总统之前很久，”桑德斯说。“这个国家的人民，通过一场决定性的选举，支持了特朗普总统，我们觉得，那些指控已经在那个过程中得到了回应。”
The women accusing the president originally came forward, along with several others, in October 2016 after reports emerged of Mr. Trump talking crudely on an “Access Hollywood” recording. Mr. Trump admitted to making the comments on the tape, and apologized for them, but he vehemently denied the allegations of misconduct and harassment by the other women.
2016年10月，特朗普在《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)录音中的粗鲁谈话内容曝光后，开始有女性站出来指控他。特朗普承认自己在录音中发表了那些评论，并为它们致歉，但他极力否认其他女性的不当行为和性骚扰指控。
After Mr. Trump’s victory on Election Day, interest waned in the allegations. Several of the women said on Monday that they were angry that their decision to tell their stories did not initially seem to be taken seriously.
特朗普在选举日获胜后，人们对这些指控的兴趣减弱了。周一，其中几名女性表示，她们说出自己故事的决定，最初似乎没有受到重视，她们对此感到愤怒。
“It was heartbreaking last year,” Ms. Holvey said on the NBC program. “We are private citizens and for us to put ourselves out there, to try to show America who this man is, and especially how he views women, for them to say, ‘Meh, we don’t care,’ it hurt.”
“去年真是让人伤心，”霍尔韦在NBC的节目中说。“我们这些国民个体把自己的故事讲出来，努力让美国人看清这个男人的真面目，尤其是他对待女性的态度，结果他们说，‘切，我们不在乎’，这让我们很受伤。”
It remains to be seen whether the women will now be treated differently. Nikki R. Haley, the ambassador to the United Nations and a prominent woman in Mr. Trump’s cabinet, broke with White House talking points on Sunday when she said that the president’s accusers “should be heard” and should feel free to come forward — even though the election was over.
现在，这些女性是否会受到不同的待遇，仍需拭目以待。周日，美国驻联合国大使、特朗普内阁的重要女性尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)没有与白宫统一口径，表示总统指控者的声音“应该被听到”，而且应该觉得自己可以坦然地站出来——尽管选举已经结束。
“I know that he was elected,” Ms. Haley said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “But, you know, women should always feel comfortable coming forward. And we should all be willing to listen to them.”
“我知道他当选了，”黑利在CBS的《面对国民》(Face the Nation)节目中说。“但是，你知道，女性应该任何时候都能坦然地站出来。我们都应该愿意倾听她们的讲述。”
At the White House, Ms. Sanders responded to a question about Ms. Haley’s comments by saying that the president agreed — in generic terms — that “it’s a good thing that women are coming forward” to tell their stories about harassment.
在白宫被问及黑利的言论时，新闻秘书桑德斯表示，总统总体上赞同“女性站出来”讲述自己遭到性骚扰的故事“是一件好事”。
But she said that “he also feels strongly that a mere allegation shouldn’t determine the course,” and she repeated Mr. Trump’s belief that his victory in the election should be the end of the story.
不过她说，“他也强烈地觉得，不应该由一面之词来左右方向”，她重申了特朗普的观念，那就是，他在选举中的胜利应该是这个故事的结局。
“The American people knew this and voted for the president,” Ms. Sanders said. “And we feel like we’re ready to move forward in that process.”
“美国人民知道这个，依然把票投给了总统，”桑德斯说。“我们觉得我们在那个过程中，已经做好准备向前进了。”