CHOFU, Japan — Daisuke Terai plays one of the best-known characters in the history of science fiction, but few fans have ever seen the actor’s face. That is because Mr. Terai puts on a bright silver and red rubber suit before stepping onto a set made of miniature trees and buildings to do battle as the cosmic superhero Ultraman.
日本调布市——寺井大介(Daisuke Terai)扮演的是科幻作品史上最知名的角色之一，但却很少有影迷见过这名演员的真容。这是因为，穿上亮银色与红色间杂的橡胶服装之后，寺井大介才会进入微缩树木和建筑物构成的布景，以宇宙超级英雄奥特曼(Ultraman)的形象战斗。
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Terai’s character was locked in mortal combat to defend the Earth from a giant extraterrestrial dinosaur with glowing eyes and forked spikes called Grand King. When the cameras paused, a sweating Mr. Terai, 36, peeled off the top of his Ultraman suit, while stagehands removed Grand King’s foam spikes to reveal a zipper down the back of the 65-pound costume.
不久前的一个下午，寺井大介的角色参与了一场保卫地球的殊死搏斗。他的对手是一头巨大的外星恐龙，带有发光的眼睛和叉状的尖刺，名为古兰德王(Grand King)。当摄像机暂停拍摄时， 36岁的寺井大介脱下奥特曼的上衣，汗流浃背。幕后工作人员则取下古兰德王的泡沫尖刺，露出开在背部的演出服拉链。这件戏服足有 65磅（约合29.5千克）重。
For decades, Japanese studios dazzled, terrified and tickled global audiences with monster movies and television shows featuring actors in rubber suits laying waste to scaled-down Tokyos, or dueling atop miniaturized Mt. Fujis. The genre, known here as “tokusatsu,” or “special filming,” helped take the Japanese film industry global by creating such fabled creatures as Godzilla and Mothra, pioneering the way for other fantasy genres like animé.
几十年来，日本制片厂的怪兽影视片令全球观众眼花缭乱、胆战心惊、心满意足。穿着橡胶演出服的演员践踏缩小版的东京，或者在微缩富士山模型上决斗。这个流派在日本被称为“特摄”(tokusatsu)，也就是“特殊的拍摄 ”。通过创作哥斯拉(Godzilla)和摩斯拉(Mothra)等传说中的怪兽，它帮助日本电影业走向了世界，并为日本动漫等其他奇幻作品开辟了道路。
But now, in an era when lifelike digital effects have made the use of small models and suited actors look quaint and kitschy, tokusatsu is rapidly becoming a thing of the past. The last Godzilla movie shot in this style, the aptly named “Godzilla Final Wars,” was released almost a decade ago, after a half-century span during which the creature appeared in 28 films, sometimes every year.
但在如今这个时代，数字特效栩栩如生，再使用微缩模型和穿演出服的演员就显得老套而俗气了。特摄正在迅速沦为明日黄花，最后一部用这种方式拍摄的哥斯拉电影约在10年前发行，它有一个恰如其分的名字：《哥斯拉的最后决战》(Godzilla Final Wars)。在此之前的半个世纪里，这种生物出现在了28部电影中，有时每年都会露面。
Only two companies still use tokusatsu effects: Tsuburaya Productions, maker of Ultraman, and Toei, which produces “Kamen Rider” and “Super Sentai” (known in the United States as Power Rangers). All are low-budget television series for children that feature oversize superheroes. Tsuburaya also makes movies, with its newest film, “Ultraman Ginga,” to be released this month in Japan.
目前只有两家公司仍然使用特摄效果，分别是出品“奥特曼”的圆谷制作公司(Tsuburaya Productions)以及出品《假面骑士》 (Kamen Rider)和《超级战队》（Super Sentai，在美国被称为Power Rangers）的东映公司(Toei)。这样拍摄出来的都是供孩子看的低预算电视系列片，以外形硕大的超级英雄作为主角。圆谷也制作电影，它的最新电影 《银河奥特曼》(Ultraman Ginga)本月将在日本上映。
Now, when Hollywood makes tokusatsu-inspired films — like this summer’s “Pacific Rim,” with its giant robots, or a coming Godzilla movie — it relies on flashy computer graphics.
现在，当好莱坞制作特摄风格的电影时 ，主要依靠华丽的计算机图形特效。比如今年夏天出品的包含巨型机甲的《环太平洋》(Pacific Rim)，以及一部即将上映的的哥斯拉电影。 
“One day, we looked around and realized that almost no one is making tokusatsu anymore,” said Shinji Higuchi, one of a handful of Japanese directors who still have experience in the genre, having directed three movies in the 1990s featuring the giant fire-breathing turtle Gamera. “We don’t want this technique to just quietly disappear without at least recognizing how indebted we are to it.”
“某天，我们环顾四周，意识到几乎没有人在制作特摄片了，” 樋口真嗣(Shinji Higuchi)说。他是极少数仍有拍摄这个流派作品经验的日本导演之一， 20世纪90年代曾执导过三部关于巨型喷火龟卡美拉(Gamera)的电影。“我们不希望这种技术只是默默地消失，至少也要认识到我们从中受益良多。”
In response, Mr. Higuchi is trying to, if not revive tokusatsu, at least chronicle it for younger generations. Last year, he helped organize the Tokusatsu Special Effects Museum, a traveling exhibition that presents the history of tokusatsu, going back to its origins in World War II-era propaganda films with flying model airplanes so realistic that American intelligence officers thought the films were actual combat footage.
为了达到这个目的，樋口真嗣试图做一些事，就算不能复兴特摄，至少也为年轻一代记录下它的历程。去年，他协办了一个展示特摄历史的巡回展览，名为“特摄博物馆” (Tokusatsu Special Effects Museum)。特摄的起源可以追溯到二战时期的宣传片：模型飞机飞行得极其逼真，以致于美国情报人员误以为这些电影拍摄的是实战画面。
The man who shot that footage, Eiji Tsuburaya, went on to create the original Godzilla in the 1954 black-and-white movie that became a worldwide hit and started the tokusatsu genre. The exhibition, which is doing a circuit of art museums in Japan, displays the movie camera of Mr. Tsuburaya, who also created Ultraman, as well as props including an enormous Godzilla foot, used to crush tiny buildings, and models of fanciful spaceships, submarines and ray guns used in dozens of superhero and monster movies.
拍摄这些镜头的人叫圆谷英二(Eiji Tsuburaya)。后来，在1954年的一部黑白片中，他首创了哥斯拉。这部电影在全球票房大卖，同时开创了特摄流派。奥特曼也出自他的手中。正在日本多个艺术博物馆巡回展览的“特摄博物馆”中，有圆谷英二的摄像机以及多种道具，比如用来踏碎微缩建筑模型的一只巨型哥斯拉脚掌，还有几十部超级英雄和怪兽电影中使用过的稀奇古怪的飞船、潜艇和射线枪的模型。
“We had to improvise, and make it all look real on screen,” said Haruo Nakajima, the actor who played Godzilla in the original movie and in dozens of subsequent Godzilla films.
中岛春雄(Haruo Nakajima)在第一部及其后几十部哥斯拉电影中扮演了哥斯拉。他说，“我们那时都是因陋就简，随机应变，让所有一切在屏幕上看起来很真实。”
Now 84, he recalled how the creator of Godzilla, Mr. Tsuburaya, who died in 1970, had to scramble to find enough rubber, latex and cotton to make the costume during the shortages after the war. “You don’t learn this from a textbook,” he said, “but by doing. There is no chance to learn now.”
84岁的他回忆道，由于二战结束后物资短缺，哥斯拉的创作者圆谷英二只能勉强找到足够的橡胶、乳胶和棉花来制作演出服。 “你从教科书上学不到这些东西， 只能在实践中学习，”他说。“现在没有机会了。 ” 圆谷英二于1970年过世。
The central government’s Agency for Cultural Affairs helped pull together the exhibition by gathering the props and models from retired stagehands or studio closets. Tomonori Saiki, who heads research on movies at the agency, says that Japan has only belatedly come to appreciate the cultural significance of tokusatsu, which he calls a product of an era after defeat in the war, when a still-recovering Japan drew from its traditions of craftsmanship and working in miniature, seen in pot-size bonsai trees, to compete with bigger-budget American films.
隶属日本中央政府的文化厅(Agency For Cultural Affairs)协助举办了这个展览。他们从退休的幕后工作人员那里和制片厂的仓库中收集了道具与模型。 佐伯知纪(Tomonori Saiki)是文化厅电影研究部门的负责人，他称日本人直到很晚才开始欣赏特摄的文化意义。他把特摄称为时代的产物：日本战败后，国力仍在恢复，电影人利用传统的工艺和微缩技法来跟财力更加雄厚的美国电影竞争。正是这种传统工艺创造出了日本的盆景艺术。
“Our hope is that the exhibition will help younger generations find inspiration to take tokusatsu in a new direction,” Mr. Higuchi, 47, said.
47岁的樋口真嗣说，“我们希望本次展览可以帮助年轻人寻找灵感，把特摄带向一个新的方向。” 
Here on the set of Ultraman Ginga, the newest television variant of the half-century old hero, most workers were veterans in their 50s and 60s, who arranged tree branches on the set to look like a miniature forest, or placed firecracker-size explosives in Grand King’s foam costume to explode when shot by Ultraman.
奥特曼已经诞生半个世纪了。在最新的《银河奥特曼》摄制现场，大部分工作人员都是五六十岁的老员工。他们在布景中安插树枝，让它们显得像一座微型森林，或是在古兰德王的泡沫服装中放置鞭炮大小的炸药，以便在被奥特曼击中时爆炸。
The director, Yuichi Abe, said this use of real actors, models and even explosives gave tokusatsu a level of realism that is not possible with computer graphics, or C.G.
导演阿部雄一(Yuichi Abe)说，使用真正的演员、模型，乃至炸药，给特摄添加了几分真实，这是计算机图形特效办不到的。
“C.G. can only do what the programmer tells them to do, so there are no surprises,” said Mr. Abe, 49, who has directed a half-dozen Ultraman movies and television series. “With tokusatsu, every take is different. You never know how it will turn out, just like in the real world.”
“电脑特效只能做程序员让它做的事情，所以不会有惊喜。” 49岁的阿部雄一说。他执导过六部奥特曼影视剧。 “使用特摄，每一条拍出来都会不一样。你永远不知道结果会怎样，这跟现实世界很相像。 ”
Still, Mr. Abe said he was also relying increasingly on computer effects, mixing them with tokusatsu scenes. One example was flying aircraft, which had previously been miniature models, but were now entirely digital.
不过，阿部雄一同时表示自己也越来越依赖电脑特效了，会把它们跟特摄场景混合起来使用。飞行的飞机就是一个例子，之前一直采用微缩模型来拍摄，但现在已经完全数字化了。
One scene, in which Grand King hurls a gigantic robotic companion named Jan Nine into Ultraman, required putting a large gym mat behind the actors, just out of the camera’s view. As filming was about to begin, Mr. Terai, the actor, donned his silver face mask and struck a dramatic martial arts pose. Stage hands flicked a small switch on his costume to turn on a light on his chest.
在一个场景中，古兰德王会把巨大的机器人同伴詹奈(Jean Nine)扔向奥特曼。这时需要放一块大的体操垫在演员的背后，刚好在摄像机的视野之外。拍摄即将开始时，演员寺井大介戴上了他的银色面罩，并摆出戏剧感很强的武术姿势。幕后人员按下他的演出服上的一个小开关，点亮了位于他胸前的一盏灯。
“Ready!” yelled Mr. Abe, giving instructions in a mix of Japanese and English. “Start!”
“预备！ ” 阿部雄一喊道。他发指令时日语和英语混用。 “开拍！”
On cue, the actor playing Jan Nine leapt into Mr. Terai, knocking both onto the gym mat.
就在此时，饰演詹奈的演员跃向寺井大介，两人都倒在健身垫上。
“Cut!”
 “停！ ”
“This is one effect that you don’t get from C.G.,” said Mr. Terai afterward, rubbing his shoulder. “Real pain.”
“这个效果你用电脑特效办不到， ” 寺井大介后来一边揉着自己的肩膀一边说。 “真的很痛。” 
Mr. Terai, who has played Ultraman for 16 years and watched the show as a child, said there was one other benefit from having a real actor: the ability to shake hands with his young fans.
寺井大介小时候就看过奥特曼影视剧，现在他扮演奥特曼已经有16年了。他谈到了使用真人演员的另一个好处：可以跟他的小粉丝们握手。
“Children know a C.G. is fake,” he said. “They want a human Ultraman.”
“孩子们知道电脑特效是假的， ”他说。 “他们想要真人奥特曼。”
But the lack of young workers on the set, besides the actors, points to a worrisome trend, said Mr. Abe and others. As they retire, there will be no one who has learned the skills of making the sets, miniature models and costumes to take their place.
但是，阿部雄一等人表示，除了演员短缺，摄制组还缺乏年轻的工作人员，这个趋势令人担忧。当他们退休时，没有人可以接他们的班来制作这些布景、微缩模型和演出服。
Shinichi Oka, the president of Tsuburaya Productions, the company that Mr. Tsuburaya founded, said the digital revolution had made change inevitable, though use of models and miniatures would continue in a limited role. The biggest reason was a new generation of audiences, who have come to expect the dazzling digital effects of Hollywood.
大冈新一(Shinichi Oka)是圆谷英二创办的圆谷制作公司的总裁。他表示，就算普通模型和微缩模型还将继续发挥有限的作用，数字革命带来的变化也是不可避免的。最主要的原因是，新一代观众期望看到好莱坞式的眼花缭乱的数字特效。
“Sure, I would love to keep making tokusatsu, but the reality is that C.G. is now cheaper, faster and can do more,” said Mr. Oka, who worked as cameraman and then director on nine Ultraman movies. “If Eiji Tsuburaya were still alive, he would use C.G. We have no choice.”
大冈新一说： “当然，我很想继续制作特摄片，但现实情况是，现在电脑特效更便宜、速度更快，并且可以做到的事情也更多。 ”他曾参与九部奥特曼电影的制作，先是任摄影师，后来是导演。 “如果圆谷英二还活着，他也会改用电脑。我们别无选择。 ”