HONG KONG — Art Basel in Hong Kong highlighted many of Asia’s top artists last year, but none had more visibility than Cao Fei. Her old-school, video game-inspired installation, “Same Old, Brand New,” lit up all four sides of Hong Kong’s tallest building, the 108-story International Commerce Center, with a playful reimagining of our earliest digital entertainment.
香港——在香港举办的巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel)突出展示了去年在亚洲表现最出众的艺术家。但他们当中任何人的可见度，都比不上曹斐。她的装置作品《乐旧·图新》(Same Old, Brand New)点亮了108层高的香港最高楼，环球贸易广场(International Commerce Center)四面外墙。这个作品的灵感取自老派的电子游戏，以一种活泼的方式重新想像了我们最早的数字娱乐。
Around the same time, the Palace Museum in Beijing released an app developed by Moujiti Studio that lets people view centuries of the museum’s porcelain collection in high definition while combing through historical details.
大概在同一时间，故宫博物院发布了一款由北京的某集体工作室(Moujiti Studio)研发的应用，让人可以看到故宫几个世纪以来的陶瓷藏品的高清图像，而且还能仔细观察历史细节。
The evolving versatility of digital technology continues to offer new platforms and exposure for Chinese artists — both ancient and modern — changing how art is made, marketed, distributed and sold.
数字技术的功能日新月异，这给中国艺术家——不管今古——提供了全新的平台和曝光渠道，它也改变了艺术创作、营销、传播和销售的方式。
A group of new media artists has evolved in recent years, with pioneers like Zhang Peili and Feng Mengbo being joined by “Post-’80” artists like Wang Yuyang and Xu Wenkai. Embracing an interconnected consciousness, such “post-Internet” artists are expanding the country’s art market.
一群新媒体艺术家近些年也经历了转变，一些“80后”艺术家，如王郁洋、徐文恺，加入了张培力、冯梦波等先锋人物的行列。他们拥抱了互相联系的意识，这些“后互联网”的艺术家，拓宽了中国的艺术市场。
Many of these artists have risen to prominence after initially expanding their own horizons. Mr. Xu, also known by his art handle, aaajiao, was a computer science major during his college days in central China, and for him and others, technology served as a gateway to art.
这些艺术家中，有许多是先拓展了自身的视野，之后才成名的。以昵称aaajiao闻名的徐文恺在中国中部上大学时，主修计算机专业，对于他和其他一些人来说，技术是创作艺术的一种途径。
“The most important possibility offered by digital technology is a kind of education in the values of technological culture,” he said. “It shatters location, ethnicity and politics, and because of that, it makes us equals.”
“数字技术提供的最重要的可能性就是，让人们了解科技文化的价值，”他说。“它打破了地理位置、民族、政治的边界，因此，它让我们成了平等的个体。”
For works produced by artists long deceased, technology also offers big benefits. Lulu Li, a partner and creative director at the Beijing-based Moujiti, said digital innovations made it easier to appreciate ancient works of art.
离世已久的艺术家创作的作品，也能通过技术来取得极大收益。某集体合伙人和创意总监李心路(Lulu Li)说，数字创新让欣赏古代艺术作品也更加简单了。
“After all, in a lifetime one can only visit so many museums and historical sites physically,” Ms. Li said. “With the rise of digital museums and smart museums, technology like virtual reality and augmented reality can bring immersive experiences that help us access cultural content.”
“一生中能亲身参观的博物馆和古迹也就那么多，”李心路说。“随着数字博物馆和智能博物馆的兴起，虚拟现实和增强现实技术可以带来沉浸式体验，帮助我们欣赏文化内容。”
Ms. Li said that about 20 people worked on the app for the Palace Museum, from the initial creative concept and user-experience planning to sketches, user-interface design, animation, sound design, program development, hardware integration and more. Additional collaborations with the museum are in the conceptual stage, she said.
李心路说，大约有20人参与了故宫博物院这个应用的开发，从最初的创意概念、用户体验规划，到绘图、用户界面设计、动画、音效设计、程序开发、硬件集成等。她说，与博物院方面的进一步合作也在构想之中。
“It’s rather revolutionary,” she said. “Digital technology not only makes it possible for China’s hidden treasures to be accessible by Chinese people, it also helps transmit this knowledge globally.”
“相当有革命性，”她说。“数字技术不仅能让中国人体验到中国隐藏的瑰宝，也有助于让它在全世界传播。”
Such advances are also making it easier for the current generation of Chinese artists who want to show their work to a wider audience. But in terms of helping them survive, there is not an app for that — yet.
这样的发展也让当代中国艺术家更容易向更广泛的受众展示其作品。但是谈到帮助他们生存下去，还没有哪个应用能做这件事——至少目前还没有。
“For individual artists, there’s really not any complete platform out there,” Mr. Xu said. “In terms of whether there are digital platforms that enable people to make money off of art, I’d say they exist.” From auctions on the Chinese social media platform WeChat “to every kind of big auction site, these Internet-based platforms already have an obvious benefit,” he said.
“对于艺术家个人而言，市面上真的没有任何完整的平台，”徐文恺说。“但谈到帮助人通过艺术赚钱的数字平台，我得说确实是存在的。”从中国社交媒体平台微信(WeChat)上的拍卖，“到各种大型拍卖网站，这些基于互联网的平台已经产生了很明显的收益，”他说。
Yang Kai founded one of those auction sites, 99ys.com, in 2003 to address counterfeiting and quality issues in Chinese art auctions.
这些拍卖网站中，包括杨凯在2003年创办的“99艺术网”(99ys.com)。他当时的目的是应对中国艺术拍卖市场上的仿冒和质量问题。
“We primarily auction paintings, the majority of which are contemporary,” Mr. Yang said. Almost all of the website’s users gain access to the site via mobile devices, he said, with more than 50 percent using their phones and 40 percent using tablets. Mr. Yang said the site’s record price for an individual painting was 100,000 yuan, or about $15,300.
“我们主要是拍卖油画，其中大多是当代作品，”杨凯说。网站几乎所有的用户都是通过移动设备访问网站的，他说，有超过50%使用手机，另外40%使用平板电脑。杨凯说，该网站上单幅油画的成交价纪录是10万元，约合1.53万美元。
In addition to auction sites and the ubiquitous WeChat, Chinese artists are also marketing themselves and selling via Instagram, Facebook, YouTube and e-commerce sites like Jd.com and Taobao.com.
除了拍卖网站和无所不在的微信，中国艺术家还会通过Instagram、Facebook、YouTube，以及京东和淘宝等电子商务网站推广自己并销售作品。
Platforms such as these that rely on user-generated content are more often than not used by artists to sell physical art. New options, such as the EO1 digital art display by Electric Objects of New York, offer a curated and subscription-based platform for artists.
艺术家通常会通过这种用户生成内容的平台来出售艺术品。也有一些新的选项为艺术家提供了有策展的、订阅式的平台，如纽约的Electric Objects推出的EO1数字艺术展示服务。
“We primarily work with artists who use or engage with technology in their practice,” said Zoë Salditch, a founder of Electric Objects who works on the curation side. “We believe that these artists are making work that represents the present and future of art.”
“我们主要与在创作中使用或加入技术元素的艺术家合作，”Electric Objects的创始人之一，负责策展工作的佐耶·萨尔迪科(Zoë Salditch)说。“我们相信，这些艺术家创作的作品体现了艺术的现在和未来。”
Electric Objects’ other founder, Jake Levine, added: “Our mission is to bring to art what the Internet has already brought to every other category of media. It reduces the cost of distribution to zero, and creates an opportunity for artists to reach and grow their fan base directly.”
该公司的另一名创始人杰克·莱文(Jake Levine)还表示，“互联网给所有其他门类的媒介带来了影响，我们的任务是将这种影响带到艺术界。它将发布成本降到了零，为艺术家创造了直接接触并发展粉丝群的机会。”
Electric Objects commissions new and original work from artists, to whom it pays a fee. Artists keep full ownership of their intellectual property while giving Electric Objects a perpetual license to distribute their artwork, Ms. Salditch said. The company wants to include artists from around the world, including Chinese artists.
萨尔迪科表示，该公司委托艺术家创作新的原创作品，并支付一定费用。作品的知识产权完全归艺术家所有，艺术家向该公司给予分发其作品的永久性许可。该公司希望囊括世界各地的艺术家，包括中国艺术家。
“China is a hotbed of creative activity,” she said. “I can imagine all sorts of wonderful collaborations.”
“中国是一个创造活动活跃的地方，”她说。“我能想象各种美好的合作。”
Mr. Xu said it was still early for products such as EO1 in the Chinese market. “In terms of Chinese consumers in the wider sense, I think this type of digital art platform is still not very visible,” he said.
徐文恺表示，EO1等服务进入中国市场还为时过早。他说，“对于广泛意义上的中国消费者来说，我觉得这种数字艺术平台仍然不太现实。”
One of the biggest challenges facing artists or companies trying to make money in China on new digital channels for selling art is the ethos of digital media itself, Ms. Cao said.
曹斐表示，对于那些试图通过新的数字渠道在中国出售艺术品赚钱的艺术家和公司来说，数字媒体本身的气质，是他们面临的最大挑战之一。
“The monopolistic sales and collection of art have a conflict that is difficult to harmonize with the ‘sharing’ and ‘free’ nature of digital media,” she said.
她表示，“艺术品垄断性的销售和收藏，与数字媒体‘分享’和‘免费’的特质很难协调。”