Thomas A. Mars, formerly the chief administrative officer for Walmart in the United States, stepped down. José Luis Rodríguez Macedo Rivera, once the general counsel at Walmart’s Mexican division, quietly left the company. And H. Lee Scott Jr., who was Walmart’s chief executive, will retire from the board this month.
沃尔玛(Walmart)美国公司的前首席行政官托马斯·A·马尔斯(Thomas A. Mars)卸任。沃尔玛墨西哥公司曾经的总法律顾问若泽·路易斯·罗德里格斯·马塞多·李维拉(José Luis Rodríguez Macedo Rivera)也悄然离职。沃尔玛首席执行官小H·李·斯科特(H. Lee Scott Jr.)将于本月从公司董事会退休。
These men belong to a list of executives from the uppermost reaches of Walmart’s management who held critical positions when corruption scandals engulfed the company’s international division. Come July, almost every person on that list will no longer be with the company — but no departure has been cited by Walmart as a way to clean house after those scandals.
在沃尔玛国际部深陷贿赂丑闻的时期，这三人均包括在处于公司顶层关键职位的高管名单之中。7月到来之际，名单上几乎所有的人都将离开公司——但是，沃尔玛并没有表示，任何人的离职与公司在丑闻曝光后进行的内部整顿有关。
It has been more than two years since accusations of widespread bribery surfaced about Walmart de México, drawing a host of investor lawsuits and a United States government investigation into Walmart’s global operations. The company’s financial outlay is closing in on nearly half a billion dollars as it deals with external and internal inquiries, which were set in motion by an investigation published by The New York Times.
沃尔玛墨西哥公司(Walmart de México)受到广泛存在贿赂行为的指控已两年有余。这些指控引发了大量的投资诉讼案，并促使美国政府对沃尔玛的国际业务展开了调查。《纽约时报》当时发表的一系列调查性报道引发了诸多针对沃尔玛的外部与内部质询，自那以后，公司在这方面的支出已接近5亿美元（约合31亿元人民币）。
While the investigations are still pending, Walmart has substantively changed its compliance structure and personnel, at times with great fanfare and at others without a whisper.
尽管调查仍在继续，但沃尔玛已经大幅变动了公司的合规审查结构与相关工作人员。对于这些调整，公司有时非常高调，有时三缄其口。
While the circumstances surrounding each executive’s departure are unclear, a pattern has emerged. At least eight of Walmart’s most senior executives in Mexico, India and Bentonville, Ark., have left the company since the latter part of 2011, when Walmart learned of The Times’s investigation. In the same two years, the company has revamped its global compliance program. In a move that swims against the current of Walmart’s corporate culture, the company has increased its compliance staff by more than 30 percent, to 2,000 people, in that short time.
虽然每位高管离职的具体情况并不明确，但是这里浮现了一种模式。2011年下半年沃尔玛听说时报的调查后，公司至少有八名在墨西哥、印度及阿肯色州本顿维尔总部的最高级别管理人员离职。同样在这两年中，公司还对其全球合规审查项目进行了修订。同时，与沃尔玛的企业文化背道而驰的是，公司还在那么短的时间内把合规方面的工作人员增加了30%以上，达到了2000人的规模。
Other changes the company has made — including mandating that any potential foreign corruption violations be reported to corporate headquarters and the board — may make it more difficult for senior executives to plead ignorance in the future.
公司所做的其他改变——包括强制要求向企业总部和董事会报告所有潜在的海外腐败违规现象——或许也会让高管将来更加难以用疏忽为由为自己开脱。
It is in Walmart’s interest, particularly as it negotiates with federal prosecutors, to show how it has strengthened its compliance efforts.
展示公司在加强合规工作方面所做的努力，对沃尔玛有好处，尤其是它正在与联邦检察部门进行协商。
“The more proactive you can be in terms of setting up good compliance program, the more favorably the Department of Justice will look on it when you’re sitting across the table,” said David Schertler, a criminal defense lawyer. “One thing you can be pretty much assured of is that they’re letting the Department of Justice know, even if they’re not making it public.”
“在建立良好的合规机制上表现得越积极主动，在面对司法部时，他们的看法就会对你越有利，”刑事辩护律师戴维·舍特勒(David Schertler)说。“有件事情可以十分确定：就算他们没有公布相关讯息，他们也都通知了司法部。”
The company’s reform efforts may surface again on Friday at the annual shareholders’ meeting, where in previous years investors have raised concerns about the inquiries.
在周五召开的年度股东大会上，公司的改革措施可能会被再次提出。前几年，投资者曾在股东大会上对相关调查表达了关切。
The federal investigation into Walmart’s global operations centers on whether the company violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a law that prohibits companies from bribing foreign officials.
联邦机构对沃尔玛国际业务的调查主要集中在公司是否违反《反海外腐败法》（Foreign Corrupt Practices Act，简称FCPA）的问题上。这部法律禁止企业向外国官员行贿。
The Times reported in 2012 that Walmart consistently bribed public officials in Mexico for things like building permits to speed its expansion in that country. Executives at company headquarters in Bentonville learned of those supposed misdeeds in 2005 but subsequently shut down an internal investigation instead of reporting potential violations of the law to the United States government.
时报曾在2012年报道，沃尔玛一直在向墨西哥的公职人员行贿，以期换取建筑许可等手续，从而加速沃尔玛在墨西哥的扩张。2005年，本顿维尔总部的公司高管获知了这些被认为不端的行为，但随后却终止了一项内部调查，而不是向美国政府报告。
The Justice Department declined to confirm or deny any Walmart investigation.
司法部既不承认也不否认对沃尔玛展开了调查。
So far, the retail giant has reported spending $439 million on investigations and its compliance program.
截至目前，这家零售业巨头表示，已经在调查与合规项目中投入了4.39亿美元。
“If you want to get not just to the middle of the pack but to the front of the pack, you’re going to spend more,” Jay Jorgensen, Walmart’s global chief compliance officer, said. “The mandate that we’ve received is, Let’s try to move this company to the front of compliance and really lead, and that takes an additional investment.”
“如果你不仅想追查中层管理人员，还想追查高层，就要花更多的钱，”沃尔玛全球首席合规官杰伊·乔根森(Jay Jorgensen)说。“我们所接受到的任务就是，要让公司在合规方面处于领先地位，让它真正成为领头羊，这就需要额外的投入。”
Nonetheless, some significant questions remain.
不过，有些重大问题仍然存在。
Under Walmart’s new system, any potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violation is supposed to be reported to the board’s audit committee, whose outside counsel is tasked with investigating accusations. But outside experts criticized the oversight structure, saying that the chief ethics officer, Cindy Moehring, does not have sufficient independence as long as her position falls under the jurisdiction of the company’s top legal officer, Jeffrey Gearhart, who is the company’s corporate secretary.
根据沃尔玛的新体系，任何潜在的违反FCPA的行为都要报告给董事会的审计委员会，而该委员会的外部法律顾问负有对指控进行调查的责任。但是，外部专家对这种监督结构表示了批判，说只要公司首席道德官辛迪·默林(Cindy Moehring)还听命于公司最高法律顾问杰弗里·吉尔哈特(Jeffrey Gearhart)，她就没有足够的独立性。吉尔哈特还是公司的董秘。
Lynn E. Turner, former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission, said that Mr. Gearhart’s authority over Ms. Moehring rendered the system “window dressing.”
曾担任证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)总会计师林恩·E·特纳(Lynn E. Turner)说，吉尔哈特的权威大于默林的事实说明这个体系只是“装饰”。
“If the hiring and firing and setting of compensation of the ethics officer is done by the top legal officer, then it is highly unlikely employees will trust a whistle-blower hotline where the tips are reported to that ethics officer,” Mr. Turner said in an email. “I think such a system is not effective.”
“如果道德官的聘用、解雇以及薪酬的设定由最高法律顾问确定，那么员工就极不可能去信赖一个所有消息都要向这位道德官汇报的举报热线，”特纳在电子邮件中说。“我认为这种体系不起作用。”
David W. Tovar, a Walmart spokesman, said any decisions involving the hiring or firing of Ms. Moehring and Mr. Jorgensen would not be made “without consulting with the audit committee.” The panel also has input into their yearly evaluations, Mr. Tovar said.
沃尔玛发言人戴维·W·托瓦尔(David W. Tovar)说，在“没有和审计委员会磋商”的情况下，他们不会做出涉及默林和乔根森的任何雇佣或解雇决定。他还表示，该小组也会对他们的年度评估提供意见。
“We are confident we have the right corporate structure to manage a strong and effective compliance and ethics program around the world,” Mr. Tovar said in an email. “Our chief compliance officer and chief ethics officer report directly to our independent audit committee on a regular and as-needed basis.”
“我们有合理的企业结构，可以在世界各地管理贯彻一套强大而有效的机制，保证各种操作符合规范和道德，对此我们很有信心，”托瓦尔在电子邮件中说。“我们的首席合规官和首席道德官根据需要，定期直接向独立的审计委员会汇报情况。”
Other questions revolve around the few executives who are still with the company and had been touched in some way by the scandals. One of these executives, Kenneth H. Senser, was the vice president for global security, aviation and travel in 2005, and was intimately involved in the investigation into accusations of bribery in Mexico. Today, his position at the company appears little changed.
其他问题涉及几名仍留在公司的主管，他们以这样或者那样的方式和丑闻扯上了关系。其中一位高管肯尼斯·H·森瑟(Kenneth H. Senser)是2005年时的全球安全、航空及旅行副总裁，曾密切参与针对墨西哥贿赂案指控的调查。如今，他在公司的职位似乎出现了一点变化。
Mr. Tovar said federal investigators were aware of Mr. Senser’s role and that “the company remains confident in his ability to do the job.” Foreign Corrupt Practices investigations are not overseen by Mr. Senser or his team.
托瓦尔说，联邦调查人员明白森瑟的角色，也了解“公司仍然对他胜任工作的能力很有信心”。森瑟及其团队并未负责与FCPA有关的调查。
Michael T. Duke, who was the head of Walmart International in 2005, also remains on the company’s board. Mr. Duke eventually rose to become chief executive, a post from which he retired earlier this year.
迈克尔·T·杜克(Michael T. Duke)是2005年时沃尔玛国际部的负责人，他也留在了该公司的董事会。杜克后来成为首席执行官，今年初他从该职位引退。
Last month, Institutional Shareholder Services, an influential shareholder advisory group, recommended a vote against Mr. Duke’s board membership, stating that it was troubled that Walmart’s investors still had no idea whether any executives had been held accountable for the corruption.
上个月，颇具影响力的股东顾问机构“机构股东服务公司”（Institutional Shareholder Services，简称ISS）建议股东投票反对杜克留任董事，它表示，沃尔玛的投资者仍然不知道是否有哪位高管因为这起腐败事件而被问责，这令人感到不满。
Mr. Tovar, asked if any of the eight high-level executives left because of the corruption scandals, declined to issue a blanket denial. Instead, he said, they left for a variety of reasons and pointed to the originally stated explanations for their departures. The company has not said that any of these executives left because of the scandals.
当被问及这八位高管中是否有人因为腐败丑闻而离开时，托瓦尔没有明确予以否认，而是说，他们的离开各有原因，并提到了最初给出的离开理由。该公司没有说过，这些高管中是否有人是因为丑闻离开的。
Mr. Tovar explicitly denied, however, that the investigation had affected two company executives: Mr. Scott and Mr. Duke.
但是托瓦尔明确否认该调查波及两名高管：斯科特和杜克。
“One of the questions you might have is, ‘Is that a result of the F.C.P.A. investigation?' ” Mr. Tovar said of their decisions to leave their respective roles. “And I would tell you no.”
对于他们决定离开各自的职位，“你可能会提出这样一个问题，‘这是FCPA调查的结果吗？’”托瓦尔说。“我告诉你，不是。”
Mr. Tovar said that Mr. Scott was leaving the board because the company preferred to have only one former chief executive on the board at a time, and that post is now filled by Mr. Duke, who Mr. Tovar said was retiring after a long career.
托瓦尔说，斯科特会离开董事会，是因为该公司希望一届董事会里只有一名前首席执行官，现在这个席位由杜克接过。托瓦尔表示，杜克在度过了漫长的职业生涯后退了休。
Ushering employees out the back door during an investigation is a fairly common practice, experts say. But Stephen M. Davis, the associate director of the Harvard Law School Programs on Corporate Governance said that from an investor’s perspective, if this is the path Walmart was taking, then the question was not whether it was commonplace but whether it was sufficient.
专家表示，在接受调查的时候，把雇员从后门放出公司是一个非常普遍的做法。但哈佛法学院企业治理项目(Harvard Law School Programs on Corporate Governance)副主任斯蒂芬·M·戴维斯(Stephen M. Davis)认为，从投资者的角度来看，如果沃尔玛正在采取这样的做法，那么问题就不是“它是否非常普遍”，而是“它是否足够”了。