BEIJING — China has released new statistics indicating that it used less coal last year than in 2014, lending support to the view that the country, the world’s largest emitter of carbon dioxide, may be reaching a peak in coal consumption.
北京——中国发布的新统计数据表明，全国去年的煤炭消费量比2014年低，为中国可能正在达到煤炭消费峰值的观点提供了支持，中国是世界上最大的二氧化碳排放国。
That would be a boon for global efforts to limit climate change, since industrial coal burning is the primary source of greenhouse gases. The new data, released on Monday by the National Bureau of Statistics, said coal consumption had fallen 3.7 percent in 2015 compared with the previous year. It was the second straight year of decline, according to the bureau, which said coal use had dropped 2.9 percent in 2014.
这会对全球限制气候变化的努力非常有益，因为工业燃煤是温室气体的主要来源。国家统计局周一发布的新数据称，2015年的煤炭消费量与上年相比下降3.7％。统计局表示，这是煤炭消费量的连续第二年下降，2014年的煤炭消费量比上年下降了2.9％。
Much of the world is watching China’s actions on carbon emissions, since it is responsible for about half of the world’s coal consumption. President Xi Jinping has said that China intends for its greenhouse gas emissions to stop growing around 2030. Some climate experts in China say the peak could come earlier, closer to 2025.
世界上的很多国家都在观察中国在碳排放上的行动，因为中国的煤炭消耗约是全世界煤炭消耗的一半。国家主席习近平已经表示，中国的目标是让其温室气体排放量在2030年左右停止增长。中国的一些气候专家说，排放量的峰值可能会在更近的2025年提前到来。
Coal use has dropped in China because the country’s economic growth has slowed considerably in recent years. The government is also enacting policies to curb coal use in large population centers in eastern China, to bring down extraordinary levels of air pollution.
由于中国的经济增长在最近几年明显放缓，中国的煤炭消费已在下降。政府也在制定政策，在中国东部地区的大型人口中心限制煤炭的使用，以降低超高水平的空气污染。
In a new estimate of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide, a team of international researchers said China’s carbon dioxide emissions had fallen 2.5 percent in 2015 compared with 2014. Emissions in the United States, the largest emitter after China, were down 3 percent, and carbon dioxide emissions globally appeared to have dropped 0.43 percent, according to Glen Peters, a member of the team, called the Global Carbon Project.
在对全球温室气体排放的一个新估计中，一个国际研究团队说，中国2015年的二氧化碳排放量与2014年相比降低了2.5％。中国之后的最大排放国是美国，其2015年的排放量比2014年降低了3％，而二氧化碳的全球排放量似乎在同期降低了0.43％，据格伦·彼得斯(Glen Peters)说，他是名为“全球碳计划”(Global Carbon Project)的团队的成员之一。
The figures were a revision of earlier estimates released in December, which put the global decline in emissions for 2015 at 0.6 percent.
这些数字是对去年12月公布的先前估计值的修订，估计值给出的2015年全球碳排放量的下降是0.6％。
The pain being felt across China’s coal industry suggests the country’s slowdown in coal demand and consumption is real. On Monday, the government said the coal and steel industries, which are dominated by state-owned enterprises, were expected to lay off 1.8 million workers, or about 15 percent of the work force.
整个中国煤炭工业正在遭受的痛苦暗示，国内煤炭需求和消费放缓是真的。周一，政府表示，国有企业占主导的煤炭和钢铁等行业，预计将裁员180万人，相当于这些行业劳动力的15％左右。
Zeng Hao, a coal industry analyst in Shanxi, one of China’s biggest coal-producing provinces, said the industry did worse than expected in 2015. Coal producers were hoping for a recovery in the third quarter, but it never materialized, he said.
山西是中国最大的煤炭生产省份之一，山西的煤炭行业分析师曾浩表示，该行业2015年的表现比预期的差。他说，煤炭生产商希望在去年第三季度有所恢复，但情况完全不是那样。
The slowing economy has also left China with a growing overcapacity in coal-fired power plants. State-owned companies across China have been building many more such plants, even though existing ones have been cutting back their operating hours.
经济放缓也给中国带来越来越多的燃煤电厂过剩产能。中国国有企业已建设了更多的燃煤电厂，尽管现有的电厂一直在削减了其运作时间。
On Wednesday, Greenpeace East Asia released a revised report that said China had granted environmental permits last year for 210 new and proposed coal-fired power plants. The group’s original report, released in November, had put the number at 155. Greenpeace estimated that the 210 proposed plants would cost about $100 billion in total.
周三，绿色和平组织东亚分部发布了一份修订后的报告，报告称，中国去年为210新建和拟建的燃煤电厂发放了环境许可证。该组织在去年11月发布的最初报告中，拿到许可证的燃煤电厂数是155个。绿色和平组织估计，210个燃煤电厂的总投资额约为1000亿美元。
The surplus of plants is not expected to result in a big surge in coal use, since the slowing economy is the main reason consumption has fallen. But besides adding to the overcapacity problem, the glut is expected to make it harder for companies generating energy from renewable sources to earn revenue, since the coal-generated plants compete with them for contracts with the state-owned enterprises that run China’s electricity grids. The coal-fired power plants have an advantage in securing contracts and time on the grid.
电厂数量过剩预计不会导致煤炭使用的大幅增长，因为经济放缓是煤炭消费下降的主要原因。但是，除了加深产能过剩的问题外，燃煤电厂过剩预计会让使用可再生资源发电的公司更难获得收益，因为在获得运营中国电网的国有企业的合同上，它们需要与燃煤电厂竞争。燃煤电厂在获得合同及确保入电网的时间上有优势。
“Warnings about China’s overcapacity crisis are coming in left, right and center, and yet the rate at which new coal power plants are being approved is increasing,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, a senior global coal campaigner at Greenpeace and a main author of the report. “These plants do nothing but fuel the overcapacity crisis and add huge debt burdens. It is a trend which must be halted immediately.”
“中国的产能过剩危机的警告到处都是，尽管如此，新燃煤电厂获批的速度仍在增长，”绿色和平组织的资深全球煤炭活动家和报告的主要作者劳里·麦里维尔塔(Lauri Myllyvirta)说。“这些电厂除了加深产能过剩危机、增加巨额债务负担外，一点用也没有。这个趋势必须立即停止。”
On Wednesday, Todd D. Stern, the United States special envoy for climate change, who was in Beijing for talks, said that some Chinese officials had expressed concern about whether President Obama’s successor would ensure that the United States was committed to the global climate accord reached in Paris in December.
周三，正在北京进行会谈的美国气候变化特使托德·D·斯特恩(Todd D. Stern)说，一些中国官员对奥巴马总统的继任是否会确保美国仍将致力于去年12月在巴黎达成的全球气候协议表示关注。
Mr. Stern said he had tried to reassure the officials. “I think it would be highly surprising to me if anybody elected were to try to pull the United States out of that,” he said at a news briefing. “Anybody doing that would just be creating a foreign policy problem.”
斯特恩说，他试图让这些官员放心。“我觉得，如果任何当选总统的人试图让美国脱离这个协议的话，那对我来说，将是非常令人惊讶的，”他在一个记者会上说。“任何这样做的人将会制造一个外交政策麻烦。”