Trading stocks, targeting ads, steering political campaigns, arranging dates, besting people on “Jeopardy” and even choosing bra sizes: computer algorithms are doing all this work and more.
交易股票、定位广告受众、指导政治宣传、安排约会、在电视问答节目《危险边缘》(Jeopardy)中击败对手，甚至是选择胸罩尺寸：计算机算法正在包揽所有这些工作，甚至还覆盖到了更多领域。
But increasingly, behind the curtain there is a decidedly retro helper — a human being.
但在幕后，一位老帮手无疑正在发挥越来越重要的作用，那就是人类。
Although algorithms are becoming ever more powerful, fast and precise, the computers themselves are literal-minded, and context and nuance often elude them. Capable as these machines are, they are not always up to deciphering the ambiguity of human language and the mystery of human reasoning. Yet these days they are being asked to be more humanlike in what they figure out.
虽然算法正变得前所未有地强大，快而精准，但计算机本身却往往只懂字面义，它们通常无法理解不同语境和词义的微妙差别。尽管这些机器如此强大，但它们也并非总是能解读人类语言的含糊性和人类逻辑的神秘性。然而如今，它们却被要求得出更符合人类的习惯的结果。
“For all their brilliance, computers can be thick as a brick,” said Tom M. Mitchell, a computer scientist at Carnegie Mellon University.
“虽然电脑十分聪明，但它们仍然可能会愚不可及，”卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)的计算机科学家汤姆·M·米切尔(Tom M. Mitchell)说。
And so, while programming experts still write the step-by-step instructions of computer code, additional people are needed to make more subtle contributions as the work the computers do has become more involved. People evaluate, edit or correct an algorithm’s work. Or they assemble online databases of knowledge and check and verify them — creating, essentially, a crib sheet the computer can call on for a quick answer. Humans can interpret and tweak information in ways that are understandable to both computers and other humans.
因此，虽然编程专家们还在编写计算机代码一步步的操作指令，但还是需要额外的人力进行一些更细致的工作，因为计算机所处理的工作正变得越来越复杂。人们要评估、编辑或者校正算法完成的工作。或者，人们也会集合起在线知识的数据库，并对其进行检查、核对，实质上是建立起一个让计算机快速查找答案的备忘录。人类可以将信息解释、调整成电脑和其他人都可以理解的内容。
Question-answering technologies like Apple’s Siri and I.B.M.’s Watson rely particularly on the emerging machine-man collaboration. Algorithms alone are not enough.
像苹果(Apple)的Siri和IBM的沃森(Watson)这样的问答技术，尤其需要依赖这种新兴的人机合作。单靠算法本身是不足够的。
Even at Google, where algorithms and engineers reign supreme in the company’s business and culture, the human contribution to search results is increasing. Google uses human helpers in two ways. Several months ago, it began presenting summaries of information on the right side of a search page when a user typed in the name of a well-known person or place, like “Barack Obama” or “New York City.” These summaries draw from databases of knowledge like Wikipedia, the C.I.A. World Factbook and Freebase, whose parent company, Metaweb, Google acquired in 2010. These databases are edited by humans.
计算机算法和工程师主导着谷歌(Google)的业务和文化。但即使是在这样的公司，人对搜索结果的介入也越来越多。谷歌需要在两个方面借助人力的帮助。从几个月前起，如果用户键入一个著名人物或地点的名字，如“奥巴马”或“纽约市”，谷歌就会在搜索结果的右边显示信息概要。这些概要取自存储知识的数据库，如维基百科(Wikipedia)、中情局世界概况(World Factbook)，以及Freebase，谷歌在2010年收购了Freebase的母公司Metaweb。这些数据库都是由人编辑的。
When Google’s algorithm detects a search term for which this distilled information is available, the search engine is trained to go fetch it rather than merely present links to Web pages.
当谷歌的算法发现一个搜索关键字有匹配的概要信息存在，搜索引擎会按指令抓取信息，而不仅仅是显示网页链接。
“There has been a shift in our thinking,” said Scott Huffman, an engineering director in charge of search quality at Google. “A part of our resources are now more human curated.”
谷歌负责搜索质量的技术总监斯科特·赫夫曼(Scott Huffman)说，“我们的想法发生了变化。人类对我们的部分信息资源进行了更多的整理。”
Other human helpers, known as evaluators or raters, help Google develop tweaks to its search algorithm, a powerhouse of automation, fielding 100 billion queries a month. “Our engineers evolve the algorithm, and humans help us see if a suggested change is really an improvement,” Mr. Huffman of Google said.
其他的人类助手有评估员和打分员，他们帮助谷歌对其搜索算法做微调处理。谷歌的搜索算法自动运行、能力强大，每月能处理1000亿条搜索请求。谷歌公司的赫夫曼说，“我们的工程师逐步调整算法，之后，真人帮手会帮助我们判断所提出的变动是否真的是对程序的改善。”
Katherine Young, 23, is a Google rater — a contract worker and a college student in Macon, Ga. She is shown an ambiguous search query like “what does king hold,” presented with two sets of Google search results and asked to rate their relevance, accuracy and quality. The current search result for that imprecise phrase starts with links to Web pages saying that kings typically hold ceremonial scepters, a reasonable inference.
23岁的凯瑟琳·扬(Katherine Young)是谷歌的一名打分员。她是一名合同工，也是乔治亚州梅肯的一名大学生。她会看到一条含糊的搜索关键字，如“国王举着什么”，以及两组谷歌搜索的结果。她要做的是给结果的相关性、准确性和质量打分。这条不精确的关键字得出的搜索结果中，排在前面的一些网页链接都说，国王通常拿着仪式权杖，这是一个合理的结论。
Her judgments, Ms. Young said, are “not completely black and white; some of it is subjective.” She added, “You try to put yourself in the shoes of the person who typed in the query.”
扬说，她的判断“并非完全非黑即白，其中一些是主观的”。她补充说，“你得尽量站在查询这条关键字的人的角度考虑。”
I.B.M.’s Watson, the powerful question-answering computer that defeated “Jeopardy” champions two years ago, is in training these days to help doctors make diagnoses. But it, too, is turning to humans for help.
IBM的沃森(Watson)是一款强大的问答型电脑，它曾在两年前击败了《危险边缘》节目的冠军，人们近期正在训练它协助医生诊断疾病。但它也需要人类的帮助。
To prepare for its role in assisting doctors, Watson is being fed medical texts, scientific papers and digital patient records stripped of personal identifying information. Instead of answering questions, however, Watson is asking them of clinicians at the Cleveland Clinic and medical school students. They are giving answers and correcting the computer’s mistakes, using a “Teach Watson” feature.
为了帮助沃森准备好协助医生的工作，人们给它输入医学文献、科学报告和去掉了患者身份信息的数字病例。沃森并不回答问题，而是向克利夫兰医学中心(Cleveland Clinic)的临床医生和医学院学生提问。他们会通过一项叫“教导沃森”(Teach Watson)的功能给出答案，并纠正电脑的错误。
Ben Taylor, 25, is a product manager at FindTheBest, a fast-growing start-up in Santa Barbara, Calif. The company calls itself a “comparison engine” for finding and comparing more than 100 topics and products, from universities to nursing homes, smartphones to dog breeds. Its Web site went up in 2010, and the company now has 60 full-time employees.
FindTheBest是加州圣巴巴拉的一家快速成长的初创企业，25岁的本·泰勒(Ben Taylor)是该公司的一名产品经理。这家公司自称是一部“对比引擎”，可以找到并对比超过100个主体和产品，包括从大学到养老院、从智能手机到狗的品种的各种话题。网站于2010年上线，该公司现在有60名全职员工。
Mr. Taylor helps design and edit the site’s education pages. He is not an engineer, but an English major who has become a self-taught expert in the arcane data found in Education Department studies and elsewhere. His research methods include talking to and e-mailing educators. He is an information sleuth.
泰勒帮助设计和编辑该网站的教育板块。他学的是英语专业，并非工程师，而是自学成才，成了从教育部门及其他领域的研究中发掘隐秘数据的专家。他的研究方法包括通过谈话和电子邮件与教育者交流。他是一名信息侦探。
On FindTheBest, more than 8,500 colleges can be searched quickly according to geography, programs and tuition costs, among other criteria. Go to the page for a university, and a wealth of information appears in summaries, charts and graphics — down to the gender and race breakdowns of the student body and faculty.
在FindTheBest网站上，根据地理位置、科目和学费等不同标准，人们可以迅速找到超过8500所学院的信息。打开一所大学的页面，摘要、图表和图片也会展示出丰富的信息，甚至包括全体师生的性别比例和种族构成。
Mr. Taylor and his team write the summaries and design the initial charts and graphs. From hundreds of data points on college costs, for example, they select the ones most relevant to college students and their parents. But much of their information is prepared in templates and tagged with code a computer can read. So the process has become more automated, with Mr. Taylor and others essentially giving “go fetch” commands that the computer algorithm obeys.
泰勒及其团队撰写了这些摘要，并设计了最初的图表和图片。例如，他们会从有关大学费用的数百个数据中，选出对大学生及其父母最相关的那些。但他们的大部分信息是放在模版中，并标注计算机能够读取的代码。因此整个过程已经变得更加自动化，泰勒和其他人基本上只需给算法下达“抓取”命令，算法就会执行。