SHANGHAI — If you’re a “single dog,” a “bare branch,” a “leftover man” or a “leftover woman” — all monikers for unmarried Chinese — you may find Valentine’s Day particularly trying.
上海——如果你是一条“单身狗”、一枝“光棍”，一个“剩男”或“剩女”——所有这些都是未婚中国人的称呼——你可能觉得情人节特别难熬。
Judging by the numbers, quite a few of the long faces on Tuesday should belong to men.
从数字上来看，本周二的很多愁眉苦脸应该属于男人。
That’s because China’s gender gap remains huge. There were 33.59 million more men than women in China in 2016, according to figures from the country’s National Bureau of Statistics that were issued last month, and 48.78 percent of China’s 1.38 billion people are female, compared with a global average of 49.55 percent.
这是因为中国的性别失衡依然严重。根据中国国家统计局上月发布的数据，2016年，中国的男性比女性多出3359万，中国13.8亿人中有48.78%是女性，而全球的平均值为49.55%。
For men, especially those lower on the socioeconomic ladder, marriage can be hard to attain.
对男性来说，尤其是那些处于社会经济底层的男性，婚姻可能很难实现。
The reasons for the gap are well known: a traditional preference for boys, compounded by the “one child” policy instituted in 1979 that led millions of couples to abort female fetuses. Worried by one of the world’s lowest fertility rates, the government changed the policy last year to permit all couples to have two children.
造成这种失衡的原因众所周知：对男孩偏好的传统，再加上1979年制定的“独生子女”政策，使得数百万夫妇堕掉了女性胎儿。去年，由于担心中国的生育率是世界上最低的之一，政府改变了政策，允许所有夫妇生两个孩子。
On Valentine’s Day, “I see a lot of stressed-out people around for different reasons,” said Li Xuan, a psychology professor at N.Y.U. Shanghai who studies fatherhood and relationships.
情人节这天，“我看到很多由于不同原因而感到压力巨大的人，”上海纽约大学心理学教授李萱说，李萱研究的是父亲身份与关系。
“They’re going to see a phenomenon that is made to seem universal,” Ms. Li said. “It’s not a nice feeling. A lot of the consumerist and entertainment activities are so geared toward couples that you kind of get a bit of hurt everywhere in the big cities in China.”
“他们会看到一种被当成看似普遍的现象，”李萱说。“这不是一个好的感觉。很多消费和娱乐活动在很大程度上都是面向情侣的，以至于在中国大城市里，到处都有点让你伤心的感觉。”
Yet the percentage of people who are married in China is higher than in surrounding, more economically developed Asian societies such as Japan and Singapore, and some Western nations, Ms. Li said on Monday, presenting a paper titled “The Myth of Singlehood” at the university’s spacious premises in the Pudong business district.
然而，中国的结婚人数比例比周边像日本和新加坡这样的经济更发达的亚洲国家要高，也比一些西方国家的要高，李萱周一说，她正在位于浦东商业区的上海纽约大学的宽敞大厅里宣读一篇题为“单身的神话”的论文。
According to 2010 national census data, about 24.7 percent of Chinese men and 18.5 percent of women above the age of 15 have never been married, Ms. Li said. The government regularly says that China has 200 million singletons and frets in the state news media over who will care for them in their old age without a family of their own. In China, elder care is the legal responsibility of adult children.
李萱说，据2010年全国人口普查的数据，中国15岁以上的人口中，约有24.7%的男性和18.5%的女性从未结过婚。政府经常说，中国有2亿名单身者，还在国家新闻媒体上为这些人苦恼，担心由于没有自己的家庭，这些人老了会无人照顾。在中国，照顾老人是成年子女的法律责任。
By contrast, Ms. Li said, figures for Japan show 31.3 percent and 22.9 percent of people in comparable categories have not married, Ms. Li said.
李萱说，相比之下，日本没有结过婚的男性和女性分别是31.3%和22.9%。
In other words, despite the gender gap, which is causing problems, especially for poorer, rural men, marriage is widespread in China. So how serious is the plight of China’s “single dogs,” as unmarried men are jokingly called?
换句话说，尽管存在性别失衡的问题，而且这个问题对于更穷的农村男性来说尤为严重，但婚姻在中国仍很普遍。那么中国“单身狗”（对未婚男人的戏称）的苦难有多严重呢？
“I would not say it’s not serious, because in China even the smallest fraction of the population is thousands and thousands of people, and of course each individual is important,” Ms. Li said. “But I don’t think it’s as catastrophic as we hear in the media.”
“我不会说这个问题不严重，因为在中国，即使是最小的人口比例也是成千上万的人，当然每个人都是重要的，”李萱说。“但我并不认为问题是灾难性的，像我们在媒体上听到的那样。”
Underlying the panic is a conservative worldview, she said.
她说，这种焦虑反应了一种保守的世界观。
“I think people are anxious about deviance from the traditional family ideal,” she said. “Chinese culture believes that everything rests on the family. If the family collapses, it’s like the world is over, so now the family seems to be collapsing, and I guess that maybe pushes the button a little more among Chinese people.”
“我觉得，人们对于偏离传统的家庭观念感到焦虑，”她说。“中国文化认为，所有的事情都靠家庭支撑。如果家庭崩溃了，那就像是世界末日到了，所以，如今家庭似乎正在走向崩溃，我猜想，这也许在中国人中引起了更多的触动。”
Marriage registrations have declined since 2013, Ms. Li said, citing figures from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, though they rose over the previous decade.
李萱援引民政部的数字说，自2013年以来，婚姻登记的人数有所下降，虽然在过去十年里这个数字有所上升。
How does China fix the problem of not just hurt feelings on Valentine’s Day, but of the gender gap?
中国将如何解决不仅仅是情人节令人伤心、而是性别失衡的问题呢？
In a society where men control politics, with few women in positions of power, Mr. Li said, “the men need to act.”
在一个由男人控制政治的社会里，很少有女性处于权力的地位，李萱说，“男人需要行动起来。”
“The next generation needs to stop gender-selective abortion to start with, get the numbers right,” she said. This type of abortion is illegal, but many people undergo the process, sometimes by bribing a doctor.
“首先要做的是，下一代人需要停止性别选择性堕胎，以纠正出生性别比，”她说。虽然这种堕胎是非法的，但许多人都做过，有时是通过贿赂医生。
The gender ratio in China appears to be falling, from a high of 121 boys born for every 100 girls in 2004 to about 113.5 boys in 2015, according to official figures. Worldwide, the ratio is about 104 boys to 100 girls.
根据官方的数字，中国的出生性别比似乎已开始下降，这个比率在2002年达到最高值，那年，每100个女孩出生，就有121个男孩出生，到2015年，这个数字已下降到约113.5个男孩。出生性别比在全世界大约是104个男孩对100个女孩。
However, in its recent census report, the statistics bureau did not provide the gender ratio for 2016, so it is unclear whether the trend is continuing.
然而，在最近的统计报告中，统计局没有提供2016年的出生性别比，因此，目前还不清楚下降的趋势是否仍在继续。