TOKYO — At the most dire moment of the Fukushima nuclear crisis three years ago, hundreds of panicked employees abandoned the damaged plant despite being ordered to remain on hand for last-ditch efforts to regain control of its runaway reactors, according to a previously undisclosed record of the accident that was reported Tuesday by a major Japanese newspaper.
东京——日本一家主要报纸周二报道了一份此前未公布的有关福岛核电站灾难的记录，该记录显示，三年之前，在福岛核电站危机最危急的时刻，数百名恐慌的员工尽管接到了坚守岗位、尽最后努力重新控制失控反应堆的命令，但却依然逃离了受损的核电站。
The newspaper, The Asahi Shimbun, said that the incident was described by Masao Yoshida, the manager of the Fukushima Daiichi plant at the time of the accident, in a series of interviews conducted by government investigators several months after the March 2011 disaster. The newspaper said it had obtained a copy of a 400-page transcript of the interviews, which had been referred to in government accounts of the accident but had never been released in its entirety.
《朝日新闻》(The Asahi Shimbun)称，在2011年3月的前述灾难发生几个月后，灾难发生时担任福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi plant)站长的吉田昌郎(Masao Yoshida)曾在政府调查人员进行的一系列讯问中描述了这一事故。该报称自己已获得一份长达400页的讯问文字记录副本。政府对这一事件的描述提及了这些讯问，但讯问内容此前从未完整公布。
Such a transcript could represent the only testimony of the accident left by Mr. Yoshida, who died last year of cancer at the age of 58. Mr. Yoshida is widely viewed in Japan as one of the disaster’s few heroes for preventing the crisis from spinning out of control by defying an order to stop pouring seawater on the overheating reactors.
这份文字记录可能是吉田昌郎为这一事故留下的唯一一份证词，他已于去年死于癌症，享年58岁。日本人普遍认为，吉田昌郎是这场灾难中的少数几位英雄之一，这些人无视停止向过热反应堆注入海水的命令，阻止了危机失控。
The transcript offers a chilling glimpse of the panic gripping workers on March 15, when the plant appeared to teeter on the brink of catastrophe four days after a huge earthquake and tsunami knocked out vital cooling systems. Mr. Yoshida told investigators that 650 workers and even midlevel managers fled to another nearby nuclear plant, leaving just him and 68 other employees behind to try to contain a possible fuel-core meltdown at a reactor whose building had just exploded. That reactor was one of three that were eventually determined to have melted down during the accident.
这些文字记录让人们对那些惊慌工人在3月15日的表现有了一些令人胆寒的了解，当时是一次严重地震和海啸摧毁该核电站关键冷却系统四天之后，核电站似乎在崩溃的边缘摇摇欲坠。吉田昌郎对调查人员称，650名工人乃至中层管理人员逃往附近的一座核电站，只剩他和另外68名员工在尝试阻止一座反应堆的堆芯发生熔毁，该反应堆所在建筑刚刚发生了爆炸。人们最终确定，这次事故中有三座反应堆熔毁，该反应堆就是其中一座。
If true, the account challenges earlier descriptions of the day’s events that portrayed the plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, as evacuating all but a small number of highly dedicated workers, who risked their lives to prevent the nuclear crisis from worsening.
以上说法如果属实，将会使先前有关当天情况的描述受到质疑。先前的描述称核电站的运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Company，简称东电）疏散了所有的人，只留下了少数高度敬业的工人，他们冒着生命危险阻止了那场核危机进一步恶化。
The disclosure of the incident three years after the fact is also certain to raise renewed criticism of the government and Tepco for failing even now to fully disclose what happened during the accident, which spewed radiation over a wide swath of northern Japan. In its report, The Asahi Shimbun, one of Japan’s largest newspapers, assailed the government for failing to make all records of the accident public even as it moves to restart Japan’s other, undamaged nuclear plants, which were idled after the accident for safety fears.
那次事故将放射性物质抛撒到了日本北部的大片地区，人们曾指责政府和东电，到现在都还没有完全公开事故经过。在事故发生三年后公布前述事实，必然会再度引发此类指责。作为日本数一数二的报纸，《朝日新闻》抨击政府没有公开有关那次事故的所有记录，甚至在着手重启日本的一些未受损核电站时依然如此。事故发生后，出于安全方面的担忧，日本停用了那些核电站。
At a regular news conference, the top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary, did not challenge the accuracy of the Asahi report. He said the transcripts of interviews of Mr. Yoshida and others involved in the accident had not been disclosed because they were not intended for the public record, though he did not explain why.
在一次常规新闻发布会上，政府首席发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)没有质疑《朝日新闻》那篇报道的准确性。他表示，之所以尚未公开吉田昌郎及事故中其他相关人员的讯问文字记录，是因为它们本来就不是用作公开记录的。不过，他没有解释其中原因。
A spokesman for Tepco, Ryo Shimizu, disputed one crucial aspect of the Asahi report, saying that company records showed Mr. Yoshida issued a more vaguely worded order to withdraw to “low radiation areas,” a term that could also include the neighboring plant six miles away. Thus, he said, Tepco did not view the fleeing employees as actually having violated an order.
东电发言人泗水辽（Ryo Shimizu，音译）反驳了《朝日新闻》报道当中的一个关键内容，称公司记录显示，吉田昌郎当时下达的是一个措辞较为模糊的命令，要求撤往“低辐射区域”，这个术语可以包括6英里（约合10公里）外的邻近电站。他表示，鉴于此，东电并不认为逃离的员工真的违反了命令。
The Asahi said its transcript was a word-for-word record of more than 29 hours of interviews of Mr. Yoshida by investigators from July to November of 2011. It said the transcript had been stored in the prime minister’s office, along with the still largely undisclosed records of 771 other people also interviewed by the government.
《朝日新闻》称自己获得的是一份逐字记录，记载了调查人员从2011年7月到11月对吉田昌郎进行的超过29个小时的讯问。该报称，这份记录和政府对其他771人的讯问记录都存放在首相办公室，其他人的讯问记录基本上仍未公开。
In the transcript, Mr. Yoshida recounted how he at first feared that the explosion early on the morning of March 15 at the plant’s No. 2 reactor building may have ruptured the reactor’s containment vessel, a dangerous development that would have released huge amounts of radiation into the atmosphere, according to the report. However, radiation measuring devices at the plant showed no spike in readings, leading Mr. Yoshida to conclude that the vessel remained intact.
据该报报道，吉田昌郎在文字记录中回述了当时的情况，刚开始，他担心核电站2号反应堆所在建筑在3月15日凌晨发生的爆炸会使反应堆的外壳破裂，这种情况十分危险，将使大量放射性物质进入大气。但核电站的辐射测量仪并未显示异常读数，吉田昌郎由此推断，反应堆的外壳没有受到任何损伤。
Still, as a precaution, he said he gave an order at 6:42 a.m. that workers move to areas within the plant that had the lowest radiation levels until he could be sure about the readings. He said he wanted to keep the plant’s 720 workers close so they could immediately return to help in efforts to contain the accident.
他说，尽管如此，为了以防万一，他还是在早晨6:42命令工人转移到核电站内辐射最低的地方，直到他确定读数正常为止。他还说，他希望核电站的720名工作人员留在近处，以便迅速回来参与控制事故的工作。
“Wait on the grounds of the Daiichi plant in order to immediately return to your stations,” Mr. Yoshida recalled telling workers via an internal conferencing system at the plant, according to the newspaper.
《朝日新闻》称，据吉田昌郎回忆，他通过核电站的内部电话会议系统告诉员工，“留在第一核电站厂区待命，以便迅速回到工作岗位。”
Instead, he said, many employees began commandeering Tepco buses and using their own cars to flee to the other nuclear plant, the newer Fukushima Daini, according to the report. He said about 90 percent of the plant’s workers left, though some did start returning that afternoon.
报道称，他表示，许多员工没有理会他的命令，反而开始征用东电的大巴，或者驾驶自己的车逃往另一个核电站，即较新的福岛第二核电站(Fukushima Daini)。他说，大约90%的核电站员工都离开了，虽然有些人下午开始返回。