WASHINGTON — The National Security Agency and its British counterpart have apparently tapped the fiber-optic cables connecting Google’s and Yahoo’s overseas servers and are copying vast amounts of email and other information, according to accounts of documents leaked by the former agency contractor Edward J. Snowden.
华盛顿——美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的文件显示，NSA和英国情报部门看来已经侵入了连接谷歌(Google)和雅虎(Yahoo)海外服务器的光缆，并复制了大量电子邮件和其他信息。
In partnership with the British agency known as Government Communications Headquarters, or GCHQ, the N.S.A. has apparently taken advantage of the vast amounts of data stored in and traveling among global data centers, which run all modern online computing, according to a report Wednesday by The Washington Post. N.S.A. collection activities abroad face fewer legal restrictions and less oversight than its actions in the United States.
《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)本周三报道，NSA与名为“政府通讯总部”（Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ）的英国机构合作，显然利用了在一些全球数据中心存储并在其间转移的大量数据。这类中心都使用最先进的网络技术。与NSA在美国国内的行动相比，它在海外的信息收集活动所面临的法律限制和监管都比较少。
Google and Yahoo said on Wednesday that they were unaware of government accessing of their data links. Sarah Meron, a Yahoo spokeswoman, said that the company had not cooperated with any government agency for such interception, and David Drummond, Google’s chief legal officer, expressed outrage.
本周三，谷歌和雅虎表示，他们不知道政府在访问它们的数据链路。雅虎发言人莎拉·梅伦(Sarah Meron)表示，该公司不曾配合任何政府机构开展这样的拦截活动，而谷歌首席法务官戴维·德拉蒙德(David Drummond)则表达了愤怒。
“We have long been concerned about the possibility of this kind of snooping, which is why we have continued to extend encryption across more and more Google services and links,” Mr. Drummond said in a statement. “We do not provide any government, including the U.S. government, with access to our systems. We are outraged at the lengths to which the government seems to have gone to intercept data from our private fiber networks, and it underscores the need for urgent reform.”
“长期以来，我们一直担心可能遭到这样的监控，这就是为什么我们继续为越来越多的谷歌服务和链接加密的原因，”德拉蒙德在一份声明中说。“我们不向包括美国政府在内的任何政府提供进入我们系统的权限。美国政府似乎曾经大费周章地从我们的私有光纤网络上拦截数据，这令我们感到愤怒，这种事的发生也突显了迫切做出改变的需要。”
In a statement, the N.S.A. did not directly address the claim that it had penetrated the companies’ overseas data links. But it emphasized that it was focused on “foreign” intelligence collection — not domestic — and pushed back against the notion that it was collecting abroad to “get around” legal limits imposed by domestic surveillance laws. It also said it was “not true” that it collects “vast quantities” of Americans’ data using that method.
在一份声明中，对于它曾侵入这些公司海外数据链路的指责，NSA没有直接做出回应。但它强调，它侧重收集“外国”情报，而非国内情报，对于它之所以在国外收集信息，是为了“避开”国内监控法律约束的说法，NSA予以驳斥。此外它还表示，说它收集“大量的”美国人数据，是“不实的”。
Companies like Google that operate Internet services — including email, online document and photo storage and search queries — send huge amounts of data through fiber-optic lines between their data centers around the world. Those data centers are kept highly secure using heat-sensitive cameras and biometric authentication, and companies believed the data flowing among centers was secure. But Google said last month that it began the process of encrypting this internal traffic before reports of N.S.A. spying leaked during the summer, and accelerated the effort since then. Google security executives were suspicious that outside parties, like governments, could tap into the cables, but did not have hard evidence that the spying was occurring, according to three people briefed on Google’s security efforts who spoke on condition of anonymity.
像谷歌这种经营互联网服务——包括电子邮件、在线文档、照片存储，和搜索查询——的公司会通过连接世界各地数据中心的光缆发送大量数据。这些数据中心使用热敏感摄像头和生物识别身份验证系统来保持高度的安全性。公司相信流经各个中心的数据是安全的。但是谷歌上个月表示，在有关NSA窃听的说法于今年夏天曝光之前，它就开始加密这类内部数据通讯，在那之后，它更是加快了行动的步伐。知悉谷歌安全工作的三位匿名人士表示，谷歌的安全主管们曾怀疑包括政府在内的外界各方可能会侵入其光缆，但是没有确凿证据显示有这样的情况发生。
The N.S.A. could physically install a device that clips on the cable and listens to electric signals, or insert a splitter in the cable through which data would travel, said Nicholas McKeown, an expert in computer networking and a professor at Stanford. Or, he said, someone with remote login access to the cable’s switch or router could also redirect data flowing through the cables.
计算机网络专家、斯坦福大学(Stanford)教授尼古拉斯·麦基文(Nicholas McKeown)说，NSA可以把实体设备安装在光缆上来监听电子信号，或者在数据流经的线缆上插入一个分路器。或者，能远程登录访问光缆交换机或路由器的人还可以对流经电缆的数据进行重定向。
Level 3 is a company that provides these cables for Google, according to a person briefed on Google’s infrastructure who was not authorized to speak publicly.
Level 3是一家为谷歌提供光缆的公司，这一点是一位知悉谷歌基础构架情况的人透露的，此人未获授权公开谈及此事。
In a statement, Level 3 said: “We comply with the laws in each country where we operate. In general, governments that seek assistance in law enforcement or security investigations prohibit disclosure of the assistance provided.”
Level 3在一份声明中说：“每到一个国家开展业务，我们都会遵守当地的法律。总的来说，在执法或安全调查方面寻求帮助的政府，都会严格禁止有关各方透露所提供的帮助。”
In July, the company denied a German television report that it had cooperated with American intelligence agencies to spy on German citizens using its network. The New York Times reported in September that for at least three years, GCHQ had been working to gain access to traffic in and out of data centers operated by Google, Yahoo, Facebook and Microsoft’s Hotmail. The program, described as having been developed in close collaboration with the N.S.A., was said to have achieved “new access opportunities” into Google’s systems by 2012, according to GCHQ documents provided by Mr. Snowden. But it was not clear what that meant.
一家德国电视台曾报道该公司与美国情报机构合作，监听使用其网络的德国公民，Level 3在7月对此予以否认。《纽约时报》在9月报道称，GCHQ曾尝试用各种手段来获取进出谷歌、雅虎、Facebook和微软(Microsoft)Hotmail运营数据中心的数据通讯，这种活动持续了至少三年。据说，GCHQ是与NSA紧密合作开发了这一项目，根据斯诺登提供的GCHQ文件，到2012年为止，该项目取得了深入谷歌系统的“新途径”。但这究竟意味着什么还不很明确。
The Post said that under a system code-named Muscular, GCHQ was storing data taken in from the interception in a rolling three- to five-day “buffer,” during which the two agencies decoded it and filtered out information they wanted to keep.
《邮报》的报道称，GCHQ使用一个代号为Muscular的系统存储所截获的数据，“缓存”三到五天的内容，并实时更新，在这期间，两家情报机构合作对这些数据进行解密，并筛选出它们需要保留的内容。
It also reported that the N.S.A. was using about 100,000 “selectors” as its search term filters — more than twice as many, it said, as the agency has been using from its Prism program inside the United States. In that program, the agency collects emails, search queries, and other online activity of foreigners abroad from Google, Yahoo, and other companies through a court-approved process authorized by the FISA Amendments Act of 2008.
该报道还说，NSA使用了约10万个用于搜索条件过滤的“选择器”。报道称，这比NSA在美国国内开展的“棱镜”(Prism)项目中使用的“选择器”多出一倍多。“棱镜”是法院根据2008年通过的《外国情报监听法修正案》(FISA Amendments Act)向NSA授权开展的，在项目进行期间，NSA通过谷歌、雅虎及其他公司收集海外外国人的邮件、搜索条目和其他在线活动的数据。
GCHQ documents obtained from Mr. Snowden by The Guardian newspaper and shared with The Times reveal an intense focus over several years by British spies on the development of Muscular and a closely related project code-named Incenser. The documents suggest that both programs are to a large extent driven by N.S.A. intelligence needs and are highly prized by the Americans.
《卫报》(The Guardian)从斯诺登处获取并与《纽约时报》共享的GCHQ文件显示出，英国情报机构在数年时间里集中精力开发Muscular以及另一个密切相关的项目，代号为Incenser。这些文件表明，NSA的情报需求从很大程度上推动了这两个项目的进展，美国人也非常看重它们。
In November 2010, the British wrote that “Muscular/Incenser has significantly enhanced the amount of benefit that the N.S.A. derive from our special source accesses.” Those projects in some cases provide data that are unavailable from any other source, one document said, “highlighting the unique contribution we are now making to N.S.A., providing insights into some of their highest priority targets.”
2010年11月，那家英国情报机构写道，“Muscular/Incenser大幅增加了NSA从我们的特殊信源途径获得的好处”。在一些情况下，这两个项目提供了任何其他信源都无法提供的数据，一份文件说道，这“突显了我们如今为NSA做出的特殊贡献，为了解他们的一些最重要的目标提供了很多观察。”
As The Post published its story, the director of the N.S.A., Gen. Keith B. Alexander, was being interviewed at a cybersecurity conference. He flatly denied a slightly garbled account of The Post story as “factually inaccurate,” but it was not clear that he understood that The Post was reporting infiltration of data links between overseas servers.
在《邮报》出版了那篇文章之后，NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)在一场网络安全会议上接受了采访。他断然否认了一些记者对《邮报》报道略做调整后的叙述，说它存在“事实性错误”，但是不清楚他是否理解《邮报》报道的是对海外服务器间数据链路的侵入。
“There’s no evidence that they are actually breaking into servers,” said Alex Stamos, a security consultant at Artemis Internet, a security firm based in San Francisco. “But they are right outside Google and Yahoo’s data centers taking data that those companies believed was protected.”
“没有证据显示，他们实际上进入了服务器，”总部位于旧金山的电脑安全公司Artemis Internet的安全顾问亚历克斯·斯塔莫斯(Alex Stamos)说。“但他们守在谷歌和雅虎数据中心外，截取那些公司自以为受到严格保护的数据。”