SEOUL, South Korea — Moon Jae-in, the newly elected leader of South Korea, moved swiftly to mend ties with China on Thursday, announcing plans to dispatch a delegation to Beijing to resolve a festering dispute over the deployment of an American missile-defense system in his country.
韩国首尔——周四，韩国新领导人文在寅迅速采取行动修复与中国的关系，他宣布了派代表团去北京的计划，以解决有关两国在韩国部署美国导弹防御系统方面愈益恶化的争端。
Easing tensions over the antimissile system was a crucial topic when President Xi Jinping of China called Mr. Moon on Thursday to congratulate him on his election as president two days before.
中国国家主席习近平周四致电文在寅，祝贺他在两天前当选韩国总统。缓解有关反导弹系统的紧张局势是这次通话的一个关键话题。
During the campaign, Mr. Moon had criticized the antimissile system, known as the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, which China sees as a threat to its security. In the call, Mr. Xi asked Mr. Moon to visit Beijing, Mr. Moon’s office said.
文在寅在竞选期间曾批评过名为“末端高空防御系统”（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，又称“萨德”）的反导系统。中国认为该系统是对本国安全的威胁。文在寅的办公室说，习近平在电话中邀请韩国总统访问北京。
Mr. Moon’s predecessor, Park Geun-hye, who was impeached and ousted as president, had agreed to the deployment of Thaad, saying that it was needed to protect South Korea against a growing ballistic-missile threat from North Korea. But the Thaad system has led to a deep schism in relations between Beijing and Seoul, and has prompted widespread boycotts in China of popular South Korean brands.
文在寅的前任、已遭弹劾并被罢免的总统朴槿惠同意部署萨德，她说，韩国需要这个系统来保护自己免受来自朝鲜的不断增长的弹道导弹威胁。但是，萨德系统让北京与首尔的关系严重分裂，已在中国引起了对一度颇受欢迎的韩国品牌的广泛抵制。
“I am well aware of the concern and fear of the Chinese about the Thaad deployment,” Mr. Moon was quoted as saying when Mr. Xi explained the Chinese stance on the matter. “I hope both countries can understand each other better on this and will soon open a channel of communication.”
据报道，在习近平解释了中国对萨德的立场后，文在寅说，“我充分理解中方对部署萨德的重大关切和担忧，希望两国相互增强理解，尽快进行沟通。”
During the 40-minute conversation, Mr. Moon revealed his plans to send separate delegations to Beijing to discuss the Thaad dispute and North Korea’s nuclear threat.
在40分钟的通话中，文在寅透露，为商讨有关萨德的争端和朝鲜的核威胁问题，他打算分别派两个代表团前往北京。
Thaad is one of the thorniest diplomatic issues the new South Korean leader faces.
萨德是韩国新领导人面临的最棘手的外交问题之一。
On Thursday, Mr. Moon asked Mr. Xi to help end the Chinese boycott of South Korean goods.
周四，文在寅请习近平帮助结束中国人对韩国商品的抵制。
“It will be easier to resolve the Thaad issue when North Korea doesn’t do any more provocations,” Mr. Moon said, according to Yoon Young-chan, his spokesman. Mr. Moon has indicted that if China wants to have Thaad removed from South Korea, it should play a more active role in reining in North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.
据总统的发言人尹永灿说，文在寅表示，“当朝鲜不再做出更多挑衅行为时，解决萨德问题将会更容易。”文在寅还暗示，如果中国想让萨德系统从韩国消失的话，中国在遏制朝鲜的核计划及导弹计划方面应该发挥更积极的作用。
Many of Mr. Moon’s liberal supporters opposed the Thaad deployment, accusing Washington of foisting a weapons system on South Korea that they say is part of a broader American strategy of containing China with an antimissile shield. President Trump angered them further recently by demanding that South Korea pay $1 billion for the system.
许多支持文在寅的自由派人士都反对部署萨德，他们指责华盛顿把该武器系统强加于韩国，他们认为那是美国用反导弹系统遏制中国的更广泛战略的一部分。特朗普总统最近要求韩国为该系统支付10亿美元的说法，进一步激怒了这些自由派人士。
But if Mr. Moon asks the United States to withdraw the defense shield, which became operational last week, he would risk rupturing South Korea’s close alliance with the United States and would also look as if he were succumbing to Chinese pressure.
但是，如果文在寅要求美国撤回这个已在上周投入使用的导弹防御系统的话，他将冒下破坏韩国与美国之间紧密联盟的危险，而且会被视为是他好像在中国的压力面前屈服了。
Mr. Moon has already faced accusations from the country’s conservatives that his emphasis on dialogue with North Korea would strain ties with Washington.
文在寅已经受到韩国保守派人士的指责，他们批评他强调与朝鲜对话会让韩国与华盛顿的关系变得紧张。
On Thursday, Mr. Moon and Mr. Xi addressed their similar approaches to ending North Korea’s nuclear crisis.
周四，文在寅与习近平讨论了他们结束朝鲜核危机的类似建议。
Mr. Moon called for dialogue with North Korea, emphasizing that the goal of sanctions must be to bring the country back to the negotiating table. Mr. Xi agreed, according to Mr. Moon’s office. The state-run Chinese news media also reported that Mr. Xi said the nuclear issue should be resolved through talks.
文在寅呼吁与朝鲜进行对话，他强调，制裁的目的必须是促使朝鲜重新回到谈判桌上来。据文在寅办公室的消息，习近平对此表示同意。中国的官方新闻媒体也报道说，习近平表示，朝鲜的核问题应该通过谈判来解决。
“I have never met you, but I have been watching you with great interest,” Mr. Xi was quoted as saying to Mr. Moon, according to the South Korean leader’s office. “I have been greatly impressed by your unusual personal background, thoughts and viewpoints.”
韩国总统办公室援引习近平对文在寅的话说，“虽然我从未见过你，但我一直在以极大的兴趣观察着你。我对你不寻常的个人背景、思想和观点印象深刻。”
Mr. Moon, a former student activist and human rights lawyer, served in the government of Roh Moo-hyun, the South Korean president from 2003 to 2008, who promoted dialogue and economic exchanges with North Korea.
文在寅曾是学生活动家和人权律师，并在卢武铉于2003年至2008年担任韩国总统期间在政府工作，卢武铉提倡与朝鲜进行对话和经济交流。
Mr. Moon’s election signaled the return of the liberals to the center stage of South Korean diplomacy. They say that the American policy of relying on sanctions and pressure has failed to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons programs. In his inaugural speech as president on Wednesday, Mr. Moon said he was even willing to meet the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, if the circumstances were right.
文在寅的当选表明，自由派人士重新回到了韩国外交舞台的中心。自由派人士说，美国依赖制裁和压力的政策，没有说服朝鲜放弃其核武器计划。文在寅在周三的总统就职演讲中表示，如果情况适当，他甚至愿意与朝鲜领导人金正恩见面。
South Korean liberals also believe that their country’s diplomacy has been too tilted toward Washington, and that South Korea should not be dragged into a hegemonic struggle between the United States and China.
韩国自由派人士还认为，该国的外交过多地向华盛顿倾斜，他们说，韩国不应该被拖入中美之间的霸权斗争。
But during a telephone call with Mr. Trump, Mr. Moon pledged to strengthen his country’s alliance with Washington, calling it “the foundation of our diplomacy and national security.”
但是，文在寅在与特朗普通电话时曾承诺要加强韩国与美国的联盟，他称韩美联盟是“我们的外交和国家安全的基础”。
Mr. Moon’s comments appeared aimed at easing fears that his new liberal government — and its eagerness for diplomatic and economic engagement with North Korea — might create a rift with the United States.
文在寅的这番话似乎是为了消除人们对新的自由派政府可能会与美国产生分歧的担忧，因为新政府急于在外交和经济上与朝鲜打交道。
Also on Thursday, Mr. Moon held a 25-minute phone conversation with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. The two leaders agreed to hold a summit meeting soon, both sides said.
周四，文在寅也与日本首相安倍晋三进行了25分钟的电话交谈。两国表示，这两位领导人同意尽快举行首脑会议。
Mr. Abe called on South Korea to uphold a December 2015 agreement in which the two countries announced what they called at the time a “final and irreversible” settlement on the issue of “comfort women” — a euphemism for Koreans forced into sexual slavery for Japan’s World War II army.
安倍晋三呼吁韩国遵守2015年12月达成的一项协议，两国在协议中宣布了他们当时称为是“慰安妇”问题上达成的“最终的、不可逆转的解决方案”，“慰安妇”是二战期间被迫为日本军队充当性奴的韩国人的委婉称呼。
In the deal, Japan expressed responsibility and extended a new apology to the women, promising an $8.3 million fund to help provide old-age care. But some of the women have since rejected the deal, saying it failed to specify Japan’s “legal” responsibility or to provide official reparations.
日本在协议中表示承担责任，并重新向那些女性作出了道歉，日本还承诺建立一个830万美元的基金，以帮助为这些女性提供养老服务。但那之后，一些妇女拒绝接受该协议，她们说，协议没有具体提日本的“法律”责任，也没有提供正式的赔偿。
The deal also proved deeply unpopular among South Koreans, and during the presidential campaign, all of the candidates, including Mr. Moon, said they opposed it.
事实证明，该协议在韩国人中极不受欢迎。在总统大选期间，包括文在寅在内的所有候选人都表示，他们反对该协议。
“The reality is that most of our people emotionally cannot accept the deal,” Mr. Moon was quoted as saying by his office. But he stopped short of saying he wanted to scrap the agreement.
“事实是，大多数人韩国人在感情上都不能接受这个协议，”文在寅的办公室援引他的话说。但他没有表示他想要废除这个协议。
His office said Mr. Moon also emphasized that disputes rooted in history — Japan ruled Korea as a colony in the early 20th century — should not prevent the countries from developing ties and working together against the North Korean nuclear threats.
他的办公室表示，文在寅还强调说，历史产生的争端——日本在20世纪初曾把朝鲜作为殖民地来统治——不应该阻止两国家发展关系，不应该阻止两国一起为对付朝鲜的核威胁而努力。