WASHINGTON — The last time an American president decided to squeeze North Korea hard to abandon its nuclear weapons program, cutting off a bank in Macau where its top leaders secretly stashed their cash, the effort worked brilliantly — until South Korea’s president complained to George W. Bush that it had to stop.
华盛顿——美国总统上次决定强力迫使朝鲜放弃核武器计划的时候，对一家替朝鲜高层领导人秘密存放现金的澳门银行进行了制裁，取得了很好的效果——直到韩国总统向乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)抱怨说必须停止这么做。
That was a decade ago, when Moon Jae-in, who declared victory Tuesday in South Korea’s presidential election, served as a high official in Seoul and embraced a “Sunshine Policy” of engagement with the North. Bush’s response was that the South Korean government had “lost its nerve” and was paving the way for North Korea to become a small but significant nuclear weapons state.
那是10年前的事情了，周二在韩国总统选举中宣布获胜的文在寅(Moon Jae-in)，当时作为首尔的高级官员，信奉与朝鲜接触的“阳光政策”。当年布什的回应是，韩国政府“失去了勇气”，为朝鲜成为一个虽小却重要的核武国家铺平了道路。
Many nuclear and missile tests later, Bush’s prophecy has come to pass. And now President Donald Trump finds himself on a collision course with Moon, who has hinted at a “Sunshine II” approach that is in direct contradiction to the path Trump has set to fulfill his vow to “solve” the North Korean nuclear problem, one way or another.
布什的预言实现了，朝鲜后来进行了多次核试验和导弹试验。而现在唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)与文在寅的观点存在冲突。文在寅暗示的“阳光二号”做法，总的来说与特朗普为履行“解决”朝鲜核问题的誓言所主张的道路是相悖的。
Trump’s strategy is to apply maximum pressure on North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un — financial cutoffs, the deployment of new missile defenses and warships off the North Korean coast, and accelerated digital sabotage of its missile program — before turning to engagement. It is an approach drawn from Trump’s real-estate experience: Inflict maximum pain first, then see if the other guy wants to talk.
特朗普的策略是向朝鲜领导人金正恩施加最大的压力——斩断其财政来源，部署新的导弹防御系统，把军舰派到朝鲜海岸，加速用数字方式破坏其导弹计划。这是特朗普从房地产经验中得出的一个方法：首先施加最大的痛苦，然后看看对方是否想要协商。
Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, described the strategy to State Department officials last week as “a pressure campaign that has a knob on it. I’d say we’re at about dial setting 5 or 6 right now.” He described the next step as pressuring nations around the world “to fully implement the United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding sanctions, because no one has ever fully implemented those.”
美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)上周对国务院官员说，这个策略是“一个带旋钮的施压运动，我觉得现在我们差不多施加了5级或6级的压力”。他说，下一步行动就是向世界各国施压，让他们“全面执行联合国安理会有关制裁的决议，因为现在没人予以充分执行”。
Moon’s strategy is the opposite: to offer an outstretched hand to the North Koreans first, in the hope of reducing tensions with the promise of economic integration. Just because that effort failed the last time it was tried, he argued during a hard-fought campaign, does not mean it will fail again as he deals with an erratic, 33-year-old leader in Pyongyang whose main interest is remaining in power.
文在寅的策略与之相反，主张首先向朝鲜表达善意，希望通过经济一体化的承诺来缓解紧张局势。他在一场激烈的竞选活动中辩称，虽然上次尝试失败了，但这并不意味着在和朝鲜喜怒无常的33岁领导人打交道时会再次失败，金正恩的主要利益点在于维持权力。
At first glance, these are “completely divergent views on how to deal with Pyongyang,” Duyeon Kim, a longtime North Korea scholar, wrote in Foreign Affairs on Monday.
乍看之下，“如何对待平壤，这完全是不同的观点”，朝鲜问题资深学者金杜妍（Duyeon Kim，音）在周一的《外交》(Foreign Affairs)上写道。
Trump, she argued, helped bring about Moon’s victory in South Korea’s election with his ill-timed insistence last week that South Korea would have to pay for the cost of installing a new U.S.-built anti-missile system, called Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or THAAD, that Moon has expressed deep reservations about. That only fueled the sense in South Korea that the country was again being pushed around by its longtime protector, whom it relies upon for defense but often resents.
她认为，特朗普在上周以不合时宜的坚定态度要求韩国支付新安装的美制反导系统的费用，帮助文在寅在韩国选举中获得了胜利。这种反导系统称为萨德（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称THAAD），文在寅对它表达了极大的保留态度。特朗普的做法让韩国更深地感觉到自己再次受到长期保护者的摆布；韩国虽然长期依赖美国的保护，却常常对此心怀怨恨。
What the South Korean public feared, Kim wrote, was that Trump’s reliance on pressure and the vague threat of military action was leading the alliance to a cycle of miscalculation and escalation that could result in resumption of a war that was halted — with no peace treaty — in 1953.
金杜妍写道：韩国公众担心的是，特朗普依靠压力和模糊不清的军事行动威胁，导致这个联盟陷入错误算计和事态升级的循环中，从而可能导致已经在1953年停火的战争死灰复燃——那场战争双方并没有签订和平条约。
With Moon’s election, South Korea and China are now fundamentally on the same page about how to deal with the North: Do what it takes to maintain the status quo and avoid any situation that could result in hostilities that would throw East Asia into chaos, and perhaps set off a financial panic. The Chinese, while promising some tougher sanctions against the North, hope to freeze the North Korean nuclear and missile arsenals where they are and channel Trump into a new set of negotiations that would probably take years.
随着文在寅的当选，韩国和中国在如何对待朝鲜问题上现在基本形成了一致：努力维持现状，避免可能导致东亚混乱的敌对状态，那可能会引发金融恐慌。中国人虽然承诺对朝鲜进行更严厉的制裁，他们希望的是冻结朝鲜的核武器和导弹武器库，并将特朗普带入到可能需要花费数年时间的新一轮谈判中。
Moon has many reasons to seek de-escalation, and his victory Tuesday proved that his view is, for now, popular in the South. He fundamentally believes that the “Sunshine Policy” is the only option to avert a renewed conflict. But he also wants to end a Chinese-led boycott of some South Korean goods that was set off by the installation of the THAAD system, which Beijing says is aimed at countering its own nuclear arsenal.
文在寅有很多理由去寻求事态的缓解，本周二的选举结果证明，他的观点目前在韩国很有号召力。他从根本上认为“阳光政策”是避免再次冲突的唯一选择。但他也希望结束中国为抵制萨德而领导的抵制韩货行动，因为北京说萨德意在打击自己的核武库。
So far, Moon has been careful not to threaten to dismantle the system — which the Pentagon rushed into preliminary operation last week ahead of the election — until he completes a review of the issue. He appears to be leaving himself some flexibility.
到目前为止，文在寅一直很小心，没有威胁要拆除萨德系统——在选举的前一周，五角大楼急切进入了它的初步操作阶段——直到完成对这个问题的复核为止。他似乎给自己留下了灵活行事的空间。
Trump has a little time to try to bridge this divide, but not much. Moon will be sworn in Wednesday. North Korea will then have to decide how it will respond — with an offer to talk, a missile launch, or a sixth nuclear test.
特朗普有一点时间来试图弥合这个差异，但时间并不多。文在寅将在周三宣誓就职。然后，朝鲜就必须决定如何做出回应——是提出进行会谈，还是发射导弹，或者是进行第六次核试验。