SEOUL, South Korea — President Moon Jae-in said on Wednesday that South Korea’s military would speed up efforts to strengthen its pre-emptive strike, missile defense and retaliatory capabilities against North Korea, and he renewed his call for the armed forces to become more independent of America’s.
韩国首尔——文在寅总统周三说，韩国军队将加快努力，以加强针对朝鲜在先发制人打击、导弹防御，以及进行报复方面的能力，他还重申了他对韩国武装力量应更加独立于美国的呼吁。
In a speech to mark South Korea’s Armed Forces Day, Mr. Moon said he would push for the South to move more quickly to retake wartime operational control of its military from the United States. Since the Korean War in the early 1950s, the terms of the countries’ alliance have called for an American general to command the South’s 650,000-member military should war break out.
文在寅在韩国“国军日”纪念活动上发表讲话时说，他将推动韩国加快从美国收回对韩国军队战时指挥权的步伐。自从1950年代初的朝鲜战争以来，韩美结盟条款就包括这样一条：如果爆发战争，韩国65万人的军队将由一名美国将军来指挥。
Mr. Moon and other liberals have campaigned for South Korea to play a greater role in the alliance, and they have long called for the country to resume responsibility for wartime command as soon as it can feasibly do so. But the idea has gotten more public support as remarks by President Trump have led many South Koreans to doubt his commitment to defend the country.
文在寅及其他自由派人士一直在争取韩国能在两国联盟中发挥更大的作用，他们长期呼吁韩国在可行的时候，尽快恢复承担战时指挥的责任。但是，随着特朗普最近的言论让许多韩国人怀疑他保卫韩国的承诺，这个想法已得到越来越多的公众支持。
Mr. Moon said Thursday that a more self-reliant military could make itself stronger and more feared by North Korea. But he also said the South should strengthen its alliance with Washington. An aide to Mr. Moon said this week that the allies were working on ways to move strategic American military assets into the region more frequently, to help deter North Korea.
文在寅周四表示，一个更加自主的军队能把自己变得更强大，也能让朝鲜更怕它。但他也表示，韩国应加强与华盛顿的联盟。文在寅的一名助手本周说，为了帮助威慑朝鲜，盟国正在寻找让美国战略军事资产更频繁地进入东亚的方法。
“The top priority is to secure abilities to counter the North Korean nuclear and missile threats,” Mr. Moon said.
“当务之急是确保抵御朝鲜核威胁和导弹威胁的能力，”文在寅说。
Since Mr. Moon assumed office in May, North Korea has conducted at least nine missile tests, two of which involved intercontinental ballistic missiles. On Sept. 3, the North conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test. And the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, has been exchanging increasingly bellicose threats with Mr. Trump.
自从文在寅今年5月担任总统以来，朝鲜已进行了至少九次导弹试验，其中两次涉及洲际弹道导弹。9月3日，朝鲜进行了第六次、也是威力最大的一次核试验。朝鲜领导人金正恩也一直在用越来越好斗的威胁与特朗普叫板。
Mr. Moon has been more aggressive than his conservative predecessors about building up the South Korean military. After he met with Mr. Trump in New York last week, Washington agreed to sell more sophisticated weapons to South Korea.
在加强韩国军队建设上，文在寅比他的几位保守派前任更加积极。他上周在纽约与特朗普见面后，华盛顿同意向韩国出售更先进的武器。
During that meeting, the United States and South Korea also agreed to expand the deployment of American strategic military assets to South Korea on a rotating basis, possibly by the end of the year, Mr. Moon’s national security adviser, Chung Eui-yong, told South Korean political leaders on Wednesday.
文在寅的国家安全顾问郑义荣周三对韩国政治领袖们说，在两位领导人的会晤中，美国和韩国还同意以轮流的方式扩大美国战略军事资产在韩国的部署，可能今年年底就开始。
Mr. Chung did not say what those assets would be, but in recent years, the United States has often sent long-range strategic bombers and nuclear-powered submarines to South Korea for military drills.
郑义荣没有说这些资产是什么，但近年来，美国已在军事演习时经常向韩国派遣远程战略轰炸机和核动力潜艇。
In his speech Thursday, Mr. Moon said his government was accelerating work on three military programs: a pre-emptive strike system known as “Kill Chain” that would target North Korean missile sites; an air and missile defense system; and a program designed to launch devastating strikes against North Korea’s military and political leadership should it start a war.
文在寅在周四的讲话中说，他的政府正在加快进行三个军事计划：一是名为“杀伤链”(Kill Chain)、针对朝鲜导弹基地的先发制人打击系统；二是防空和反导弹系统；三是如果朝鲜发动战争的话，旨在对朝鲜军事和政治领导人进行毁灭性打击的系统。
He said the South Korean military should become strong enough to retake its wartime control from the Americans, and to “play a leading role in establishing a stronger and more stable combined defense system” together with the United States.
文在寅说，韩国军队应该强大到足以从美国收回军队战时指挥权的程度，并“在（与美国一起）建立一个更强大、更稳定的综合防御系统中起主导作用”。
South Korea handed over operational control of its military to an American general in 1950, when the United States rushed troops to the Korean Peninsula to fight the Korean War. The war ended in a cease-fire, not a peace treaty, and tens of thousands of American soldiers have been based in the South ever since. The South regained peacetime control of its military in 1994, but the United States would still command combined American-South Korean forces in the event of war.
1950年，韩国把对其军队的指挥权交给了一名美国将军，当时，美国正在派军队赶赴朝鲜半岛参战。朝鲜战争以停火协议、而非和平条约告终，那之后，成千上万的美军一直驻扎在韩国。1994年，韩国收回了和平时期对本国军队的指挥权，但美国仍保留着战争爆发时指挥美韩联合部队的权力。
Washington agreed in 2007 to return wartime command to Seoul by 2012. But the target date was pushed back to 2015, and then again to the mid-2020s, as North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs advanced and doubt surfaced over whether the South’s military could build up its capabilities quickly enough to take the lead in its defense.
华盛顿曾在2007年同意，在2012年之前会将战时指挥权交还给首尔。但这个预定日期先是推迟到了2015年，后来又推迟到2020年中期，原因是，随着朝鲜核计划和导弹计划的不断发展进步，人们对韩国军队是否能够迅速提升能力、从而在韩国防务上起带头作用产生了怀疑。
Also on Thursday, Malaysia barred its citizens from traveling to North Korea because of the escalating tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
同在周四，由​​于朝鲜半岛紧张局势升级，马来西亚宣布禁止其公民前往朝鲜。
Malaysia’s relations with North Korea have deteriorated since the murder of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of Kim Jong-un, at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in February. Malaysia said North Korean agents had hired two female assassins to kill Mr. Kim with a nerve agent. In the wake of the killing, both countries briefly barred each other’s nationals from leaving.
自从今年2月，与金正恩不相往来的同父异母兄长金正男在吉隆坡国际机场被刺杀以来，马来西亚与朝鲜的关系就一直在恶化。马来西亚方面说，朝鲜特工雇佣了两名女刺客，用神经毒素杀死了金正男。谋杀发生之后，两国都曾暂时禁止对方公民离境。
Malaysia is scheduled to face North Korea in an Asian Cup soccer match in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on Oct. 5, a match that has already been delayed twice because of security concerns. It was not clear if the Malaysian team would be exempted from the new travel ban.
按赛程，马来西亚足球队将于10月5日在朝鲜首都平壤的亚洲杯足球赛上与朝鲜队对垒，出于安全考虑，这场比赛已被推迟了两次。目前尚不清楚马来西亚队是否能免受新旅行禁令的限制。