SEOUL, South Korea — President Moon Jae-in of South Korea called on Thursday for family reunions for older Koreans separated by war six decades ago in a conciliatory move after the North’s first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile.
韩国首尔——韩国总统文在寅周四呼吁让60年前因战火分离的老人与家属团聚，这是在朝鲜首次试射洲际弹道导弹之后，他采取的一个和解姿态。
Moon, a dogged advocate of dialogue with the North, made the proposal during an address in Germany, where he was scheduled to attend a Group of 20 summit meeting this week. In his first speech since North Korea’s missile test Tuesday, Moon reaffirmed his policy of seeking to engage the North through negotiations even as his government vowed to join Washington in tightening sanctions against the North after its ICBM test.
文在寅一直坚定主张与朝鲜对话，他在德国的一个演讲中提出了这个建议，本周他在那里参加G20峰会。这是自周二朝鲜进行导弹试射以来文在寅的首次演讲，虽然韩国政府在朝鲜洲际导弹测试之后，誓言要和华盛顿一起对其进行制裁，他还是重申了通过谈判与朝鲜进行接触的政策。
“What the North chose to do this time was reckless,” Moon said in a speech delivered at the Koerber Foundation, a nonprofit research group based in Berlin. “It asked for punishment from the international community.”
“朝鲜这次的做法很鲁莽，”文在寅在柏林非营利研究组织科尔伯基金会(Koerber Foundation)的演讲中说。“它是在向国际社会自找惩罚。”
He added, “If the North doesn’t stop its nuclear pursuit, there is no other option but to enforce even stronger sanctions and pressure.”
他还说：“如果朝鲜不停止核计划，大家除了加大制裁和压力外就别无选择了。”
But Moon also reiterated that he was willing to meet Kim Jong Un, the North Korean leader, “at any time and any place” if the circumstances were right and if he saw an opportunity to reverse the military standoff on the Korean Peninsula.
但是，文在寅也重申，如果情况合适，他愿意在朝鲜领导人金正恩认为可以扭转朝鲜半岛军事对峙的时候，于“任何时间、任何地点”与之会晤。
He said North Korea should return to the negotiating table to discuss a “complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.” If the North chooses that path, he said, great benefits wait for it: security guarantees like a peace treaty for Kim’s regime, as well as joint economic projects and other assistance.
他说，朝鲜应该回到谈判桌上来，讨论“完全的、可核查的、不可逆转的朝鲜半岛无核化进程”。他表示，如果朝鲜选择这条路，就会获得巨大的利益：首先是安全保障，比如为金家政权签订一个和平条约，然后还有联合经济项目和其他援助。
Moon said the need for dialogue with the North was stronger than ever, given a dangerous escalation of tensions on the peninsula in recent weeks.
文在寅说，鉴于最近几周来半岛紧张局势升级，与朝鲜进行对话的需要变得更加迫切。
As one of the first steps toward easing tensions, Moon said the two Koreas should start Red Cross talks to arrange temporary reunions of relatives in the North and South who have not seen each other since the 1950-53 Korean War. Moon also invited North Korea to send a delegation to the 2018 Winter Olympics, to be held in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang.
作为缓和紧张局势的第一步，文在寅说，两国应该开始进行红十字会谈，安排1950年至1953年的朝鲜战争之后没有见过面的朝韩家属进行临时团聚。文在寅还邀请朝鲜派团参加2018年在韩国平昌市举行的冬季奥运会。
There was no immediate response from North Korea.
朝鲜没有立即做出回应。