SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea elected Moon Jae-in, a human rights lawyer who favors dialogue with North Korea, as president on Tuesday, returning the nation’s liberals to power after nearly a decade in the political wilderness and setting up a potential rift with the United States over the North’s nuclear weapons program.
韩国首尔——韩国人权律师文在寅周二当选总统，自由派力量经过近10年的时间，再度在韩国掌权。在朝鲜问题上，文在寅倾向于对话，他的当选意味着美韩关系可能出现新的裂痕。
The vote caps a remarkable national drama in which a corruption scandal, mass protests and impeachment forced a South Korean president from office for the first time in almost 60 years, leaving the conservative establishment in disarray and its former leader in jail.
一场全国性的政治大戏随着投票结果落幕。此前的腐败丑闻引发了大规模的抗议，导致总统朴槿惠被弹劾，韩国保守派阵脚大乱。
Mr. Moon, 64, a son of North Korean refugees, now faces the challenge of enacting changes to limit the power of big business and address the abuses uncovered in his predecessor’s downfall, while balancing relations with the United States and China and following through on his promise of a new approach to North Korea.
64岁的文在寅是朝鲜难民的儿子。现在，他必须采取变革措施削弱门阀，打击腐败，平衡与美国和中国的关系，兑现他关于对朝新策略的承诺。
Mr. Moon’s victory immediately scrambles the geopolitics of the standoff over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal. Even as it is urging the world to step up pressure on Pyongyang, the Trump administration now faces the prospect of a key ally — one with the most to lose in any conflict with the North — breaking ranks and adopting a more conciliatory approach.
文在寅的当选立刻扰乱了目前的地缘政治格局。特朗普政府正在呼吁国际社会对朝鲜施加更大的压力，现在却面临着盟友韩国撇开它，寻求对朝和解的可能性。
Mr. Moon has argued that Washington’s reliance on sanctions and “maximum pressure” has been ineffective and that it is time to give engagement and dialogue with the North another chance, an approach favored by China. He has also called for a review of the Pentagon’s deployment of an antimissile defense system in South Korea that the Chinese government has denounced.
文在寅主张，美国的制裁并不见效，应该再次尝试与朝鲜展开接触和对话。中国欢迎这种方式。他还要求重新审视美国在韩部署反导系统的举措。这个反导系统也是中国所反对的。
Mr. Moon’s position on North Korea is a sharp departure from that of his two immediate predecessors, while he condemned “the ruthless dictatorial regime of North Korea” during his campaign, Mr. Moon also argued that South Korea must “embrace the North Korean people to achieve peaceful reunification one day.”
文在寅在朝鲜问题上的立场迥异于他的两位前任。尽管他也谴责“朝鲜的残酷独裁政权”，但他主张，韩国“必须拥抱朝鲜人民，才能有朝一日实现和平统一”。
“To do that, we must recognize Kim Jong-un as their ruler and as our dialogue partner,” he said. “The goal of sanctions must be to bring North Korea back to the negotiating table.”
“要做到这一点，我们必须承认金正恩是他们的领袖，是我们的对话方，”他说。“制裁的目标必须是让朝鲜重返谈判桌。”
David Straub, a former director of Korean affairs at the State Department and a senior fellow at the Sejong Institute, a think tank near Seoul, the South Korean capital, warned of “serious policy differences between the U.S. and South Korean presidents” over North Korea and related issues. He added that they could lead to “significantly increased popular dissatisfaction with the United States in South Korea.”
美韩两国总统可能在朝鲜问题上出现严重分歧，韩国人对美国的不满情绪也可能增加。
China, on the other hand, is likely to welcome Mr. Moon’s election, which may make it easier for it to deflect pressure from the United States to get tough on North Korea and strengthen its argument that Washington must address the North’s concerns about security.
另一方面，中国很可能会欢迎文在寅当选的结果，这可能会转移一部分来自美国的要求中国对朝采取强硬立场的压力，同时为北京在朝鲜问题上的观点增加一些说服力，即认为华盛顿必须顾及朝鲜在安全方面的考虑。
Some analysts suggest Mr. Moon’s victory could lower the temperature of the North Korean standoff, prompting both Washington and Pyongyang to pause and assess the effect of the new government in Seoul on their policies. Satellite images indicate the North has been getting ready to conduct a sixth nuclear test, and the Trump administration has engaged in a heated campaign of implied threats and military posturing to stop it.
一些分析人士认为，文在寅的获胜可能会降低朝鲜对峙的温度，从而促使华盛顿和平壤都停下来，评估一下首尔新政府对各自政策的影响。卫星图像表明，朝鲜一直在为进行第六次核试验做准备，为了阻止朝鲜，特朗普政府已采用了隐性威胁和做出军事姿态的升温手法。
Mr. Moon’s view of North Korea echoes the approach of the two liberal presidents who held power from 1998 to 2008 and pursued a so-called sunshine policy toward the North that included diplomatic talks, family reunions and joint economic projects, such as the Kaesong industrial park in North Korea, near the demilitarized zone.
文在寅对朝鲜的看法反映了曾在1998年至2008年期间掌权的两位自由派总统的态度，他们对朝鲜采取了所谓的阳光政策，包括与朝鲜进行外交谈判，搞家庭团聚和联合经济项目等，比如在靠近非军事区的朝鲜一边建立了开城工业园区。
But that era was punctuated by the North’s first nuclear test, conducted in 2006, and much has changed on the Korean Peninsula since.
但是，那段时期被朝鲜在2006年进行的首次核试验打断了，之后，朝鲜半岛发生了很大的变化。
With four more tests under its belt, each more powerful than the last, and a rapidly advancing ballistic missile program, North Korea poses a greater threat to the South and appears to be closing in on nuclear arms capable of striking the United States. Mr. Moon also faces a mercurial adversary in Kim Jong-un, 33, who took power in Pyongyang after the death of his father in late 2011.
朝鲜又进行了另外四次核试验，每次的威力都比上一次的大，朝鲜还迅速发展了自己的弹道导弹计划，从而对韩国构成更大的威胁，而且看来正在获得能够打击美国的核武器能力。文在寅也面临着33岁的金正恩这个令人捉摸不定的对手，金正恩在父亲去世后，于2011年底在平壤上台。
Critics say any attempt by Mr. Moon to revive the sunshine policy — perhaps by reopening Kaesong, which his disgraced predecessor, Park Geun-hye, shut down last year — would give North Korea a lifeline it could use to reduce its economic dependence on China, weakening Beijing’s leverage over it and strengthening Mr. Kim’s hand.
批评人士说，文在寅试图恢复阳光政策的任何做法——比如可能通过让开城重新开工（文在寅的前任、失势的朴槿惠去年关闭了开城）——都将会赋予朝鲜一条生命线，降低朝鲜对中国经济的依赖，削弱北京对朝鲜的影响力，从而让金正恩变得更强大。
The American missile defense system, known as Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or Thaad, presents another test for Mr. Moon. It went into operation last week, and Mr. Moon has complained that its deployment was rushed to present him with a fait accompli. But if he attempts to undo it, he could strain the alliance with Washington while leaving the impression of bowing to Chinese pressure.
被称为“末端高空防御体系统”（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”）的美国反导系统是文在寅面临的另一个考验。萨德已在上周投入使用，文在寅曾抱怨说，为了给他制造一个既成事实，萨德在部署上赶了时间。但是，如果他试图取消萨德的话，他可能会让首尔与华盛顿的盟友关系变得紧张，同时给人留下他向中国压力屈服的印象。
That could be politically fatal in South Korea, where the public, across the political spectrum, is wary of the country looking “obsequious” toward big powers. Many South Koreans complained that the United States had foisted Thaad on their nation, but they also fumed about retaliatory economic measures taken by China in response to its deployment.
这在韩国政治上有可能是致命的，不管属于什么政治派别，韩国公众都对自己国家向大国“献媚”的做法保持警惕。许多韩国人抱怨说，美国把萨德系统强加给了韩国，但他们也对中国为回应萨德的部署，采取报复性经济措施的做法很气愤。
Acknowledging the complexity of the challenges he faces, Mr. Moon has been careful to say that when he promised to review the Thaad deployment, he did not necessarily mean he would reverse it.
文在寅承认他所面临的挑战的复杂性，他在承诺重新审视部署萨德的同时，一直小心翼翼地表示，审视并不一定意味着他会扭转部署。
And while he has said South Korea must “learn to say no” to Washington, he has stressed that any diplomatic overture toward North Korea will be grounded in the South’s alliance with the United States.
而且，虽然他说韩国必须对华盛顿“学会说不”，但他一直强调，任何向朝鲜表现的友好外交姿态，都将以韩国与美国的联盟为基础。
Asked by the daily Dong-A Ilbo what he would do with a crystal ball, Mr. Moon said last month that he would show his 90-year-old mother what her North Korean hometown looked like now and how her relatives there were faring. “If Korea reunifies, the first thing I would do is to take my mother’s hand and visit her hometown,” he said. “Perhaps, I could retire there as a lawyer.”
上个月，《东亚日报》曾问文在寅，如果有个占卜用的水晶球，他想做什么。他说，他想让90岁的母亲看看她在朝鲜的家乡现在什么样了，她在那里的亲戚们过得怎么样。“如果半岛统一，我要做的第一件事就是拉着母亲的手，去她的故乡看看，”他说。“也许，我会在那里作为律师退休。”
In the 1980s, Mr. Moon defended student and labor activists persecuted under military rule and forged a lifelong friendship with a fellow lawyer, Roh Moo-hyun. When Mr. Roo was elected president in 2002, declaring that he would be the first South Korean president not to “kowtow to the Americans,” Mr. Moon served as his chief of staff.
上个世纪80年代，文在寅曾为受军政府迫害的学生和劳工活动人士辩护，与同行律师卢武铉结下了终生的友情。卢武铉在2002年当选总统时曾宣布，他将是第一位不向“美国人磕头”的韩国总统，文在寅曾为卢武铉担任幕僚长。
Many conservatives’ misgivings about Mr. Moon stem from his association with Mr. Roh. But some former American officials who dealt with the Roh government remember Mr. Moon as more practical and flexible than other officials. In his memoir, Mr. moon defended Mr. Roh’s decision to sign a free-trade agreement with the United States and dispatch troops to Iraq over the protests of Mr. Roh’s liberal political base.
由于他与卢武铉的关系，许多保守派人士对文在寅心存疑虑。但是，在与卢武铉政府打过交道的一些美国前官员的印象里，文在寅比其他官员更实际，也更灵活。文在寅在自己的回忆录中为卢武铉辩护，支持他与美国签署自由贸易协议的决定、以及卢武铉不顾自己自由派政治大本营的抗议，向伊拉克派兵的做法。
Mr. Roh completed his five-year term in 2008 and committed suicide the next year as prosecutors investigated corruption allegations against his family.
2008年，卢武铉完成了五年的总统任期，并于次年自杀身亡，当时，检察官曾针对其家属的贪污指控进行调查。
“It was the most painful day in my life,” Mr. Moon wrote in his memoir, describing his friend’s death as “tantamount to a political murder” and blaming it on a political vendetta by a new conservative government that wanted to discredit him.
“这是我一生中最痛苦的一天，”文在寅在回忆录中写道，他把自己朋友的死亡描述为“无异于政治谋杀”，并将他的死亡归咎于新上任的保守派政府，认为政府出于政治宿仇要诋毁卢武铉。
Mr. Moon entered the 2012 presidential race vowing to finish Mr. Roh’s work by fighting corruption, the influence of the country’s family-owned conglomerates, and what he called “politically motivated prosecutors,” — and by seeking peace with North Korea.
文在寅参加了2012年的总统大选，当时他曾誓言要通过打击腐败、对抗韩国家族企业集团的影响和他称之为“出于政治动机的起诉”，以及通过与朝鲜寻求和平等做法，完成卢武铉的事业。
But he narrowly lost to Ms. Park, the daughter of the South Korean military strongman Park Chung-hee, and spent the next four years as a leader of the opposition.
但他被韩国军事强人朴正熙的女儿朴槿惠以微弱优势击败，把接下来的四年时间花在担任反对派领导人上。
In a recent interview, Mr. Moon recalled how he visited Mr. Roh’s predecessor, Kim Dae-jung, the Nobel Prize laureate and architect of the sunshine policy, shortly before Mr. Kim died in 2009.
文在寅在最近的一次采访中回忆了一段往事，在卢武铉的前任金大中于2009年去世前不久，文在寅曾探访过这位诺贝尔奖获得者、阳光政策的设计师。
Mr. Kim was so feeble by then that he had to be fed by his wife, and he was heartbroken. He had devoted much of his career to building trust with North Korea through humanitarian and economic aid, and the conservatives in power were dismantling that legacy and embracing sanctions against the North.
那时，金大中的身体已经非常虚弱，吃饭需要妻子喂，而且他已经心力交瘁。他把职业生涯的大部分花在通过人道主义和经济援助与朝鲜建立信任上，而当时执政的保守派正在逐步摧毁这一政治遗产，奉行对朝鲜采取制裁措施的做法。
“President Kim said he could not believe his eyes,” Mr. Moon recalled. “In what I thought was his dying wish, he asked us to take the government back.”
“金大中总统说，他不敢相信自己的眼睛，”文在寅回忆说。“他要我们把政府拿回来，我觉得那是他的临终遗愿。”