SEOUL, South Korea — President Moon Jae-in of South Korea warned on Wednesday that North Korea would face stiffer sanctions if it resumed weapons tests, while crediting President Trump with helping force the North to resume dialogue and strike a broader agreement to improve Korean ties.
韩国首尔——韩国总统文在寅周三警告朝鲜，如果重新开始武器试验，将会面临更严厉的制裁，同时，他认为特朗普总统在迫使朝鲜恢复对话、为改善韩朝关系达成一项更广泛协议上有所帮助。
“I am giving a lot of credit to President Trump,” Mr. Moon said at a nationally televised news conference a day after the two Koreas forged their agreement during border talks. “I am expressing my gratitude.”
“我认为很多功劳归于特朗普总统，”文在寅在全国直播的新闻发布会上说，一天前，韩国和朝鲜在边界举行的谈判中达成协议。“我要表达我的感激之情。”
His comment reflected a tactful maneuver for Mr. Moon: stroking the ego of the American leader, who has claimed credit for the inter-Korean dialogue, while easing fears in Washington and among his conservative critics at home that in his eagerness for dialogue, he may be too accommodating to North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
文在寅的这番话反映了他不得罪人的策略：既增添了美国领导人的自我价值感——特朗普已自称对韩朝谈判有功，同时也减轻了华盛顿和本国的保守派批评者认为他太热衷于对话、对朝鲜领导人金正恩也许过于迁就的担心。
In a post on Twitter last week, Mr. Trump asserted that North Korea had gone to the negotiating table because he had been “firm, strong and willing to commit our total ‘might’ against the North.” Mr. Moon agreed on Wednesday that Mr. Kim’s decision to start a dialogue with the South could be a sign that the Trump administration’s policy of applying maximum sanctions and pressure was working.
特朗普上周在Twitter上发帖宣称，朝鲜走到谈判桌前是因为他“坚决、强大，以及愿意把我们的全部‘威力’投入到抗朝上去。”文在寅周三对此表示同意，认为金正恩与韩国对话的决定，可能是特朗普政府施加最严历制裁和最大压力的政策正在奏效的表现。
And he said South Korea and its allies must seize on the North’s renewed appetite for negotiations to persuade it to join broader talks involving the United States over how to end its rapidly advancing nuclear weapons program — an approach the North’s chief delegate to the border talks angrily rejected on Tuesday.
文在寅说，韩国及其盟友必须把握住朝鲜对谈判重新表现出来的强烈欲望，说服它加入到包括有美国参与的更广泛会谈中来，以结束朝鲜迅速发展的核武器计划。参加边境谈判的朝鲜首席代表周二愤怒地拒绝了这个建议。
Otherwise, North Korea made a surprisingly conciliatory gesture during the talks, promising to send a delegation of athletes, cheerleaders and journalists to the Winter Olympics being held next month in the South Korean town of Pyeongchang. The North also agreed to more talks with the South, including a dialogue between their militaries, to ease tensions and improve ties.
在其他问题上，朝鲜在谈判中做出了出人意料的和解姿态，承诺派运动员代表队、啦啦队和记者团参加下个月在韩国平昌举行的冬季奥运会。朝鲜还同意为缓和紧张局势和改善关系，与韩国进行更多会谈，包括两国军队之间的对话。
This week’s talks, in the border village of Panmunjom, were the first governmental dialogue between the Koreas in more than two years, and the agreements they produced were hailed as a welcome reprieve for South Koreans after a year of talk of war over the North’s nuclear and long-range missile programs.
本周在边境村庄板门店举行的会谈是两年多来朝韩政府之间的首次对话，双方达成的协议受到称赞和欢迎，在有关朝鲜核武器和远程导弹计划的战争言论持续了一年之后，协议让韩国人缓了口气。
But they also came amid concern that Mr. Moon might end up facilitating Mr. Kim’s strategy of fracturing the American-led sanctions campaign and driving a wedge between Seoul and Washington.
但双边谈判的发生也让人们担心，文在寅到头来可能会让金正恩分裂美国主导的制裁阵营、在首尔和华盛顿之间挑起事端的战略得逞。
Addressing such concerns, Mr. Moon said there was a limit to how far the two Koreas could go in improving ties if North Korea did not move toward dismantling its nuclear weapons program.
针对这些担忧，文在寅表示，如果朝鲜不放弃其核武器计划的话，韩朝两国在改善关系方面可以走多远是有限度的。
”The two issues — improving inter-Korean relations and resolving the North Korean nuclear issue — cannot be separated,” Mr. Moon said. “If the North provokes again or does not show sincerity on revising its nuclear problem, the international community will continue to apply even stronger sanctions and pressure.”
“这两个问题——改善韩朝关系、解决朝鲜核武器问题——是不可分割的，”文在寅说。“如果朝鲜再次挑衅，或在改变核问题上没有诚意的话，国际社会将进一步施加更严厉的制裁和压力。”
“My government has no intention of easing sanctions unilaterally,” he added, dismissing speculation that he might lift some of the sanctions imposed by his conservative predecessors, like the closing of a joint factory park in the North Korean town of Kaesong.
“我的政府没有单方面放松制裁的打算，”他补充说，驳斥了外界的猜测，外界认为他可能会取消其保守派前任采取的、比如关闭设在朝鲜开城的一个联合工业园等制裁措。
But Mr. Moon, a vocal critic of Washington’s plan to use military force to resolve the North’s nuclear threat, reiterated that the ultimate goal of sanctions and pressure must be to force North Korea to negotiate. He emphasized that his top national security and foreign policy goal was to prevent war on the Korean Peninsula.
但是，文在寅直言不讳地批评华盛顿用军事力量来解决朝鲜核威胁的计划，他重申，制裁和施压的最终目的必须是迫使朝鲜进行谈判。他强调说，自己的国家安全和外交政策的首要目标是，防止朝鲜半岛发生战争。
Since he took office last May, Mr. Moon has faced detractors at home, especially older and conservative South Koreans who fear he may concede too much to the North as he doggedly champions talks. Such concerns have persisted even as Mr. Moon has moved to build more powerful missiles and get new weapons from the United States to counter the North’s nuclear threat.
自去年5月上台以来，文在寅在国内一直受到不少批评，尤其是来自那些上年纪的韩国保守派人士，他们担心，由于文在寅坚持不懈地支持谈判，他可能会对朝鲜做出过多的让步。即使在文在寅开始着手制造更强大的导弹，并从美国获得了用来应对朝鲜核威胁的新武器的时候，这种担忧依然存在。
Conservative South Koreans, as well as American policymakers, remain deeply skeptical of Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, who has accelerated the pace of nuclear and missile tests since taking power six years ago.
韩国的保守派人士和美国的政策制定者对朝鲜领导人金正恩仍深表怀疑。金正恩在六年前上台后，加快了朝鲜核武器和导弹试验的步伐。
In a New Year’s Day speech, Mr. Kim proposed dialogue with the South to discuss his country’s participation in the Pyeongchang Olympics, which Mr. Moon has called for repeatedly. But he wants North Korea to be accepted as a nuclear weapons state, even boasting in his speech that he now had a “button” in his office to launch nuclear missiles at the mainland United States. At the same time, he urged Koreans on both sides to work together for peace.
金正恩在新年讲话中提议与韩国对话，讨论朝鲜参加平昌冬奥会的问题，文在寅此前曾多次呼吁朝鲜这样做。但金正恩也希望朝鲜被国际社会接受为拥核国家，他甚至在讲话中吹嘘，现在他的办公室里有一个可向美国大陆发射核弹头导弹的“按钮”。但他同时敦促朝韩双方为实现和平而共同努力。
During the border talks on Tuesday, the North’s top negotiator, Ri Son-kwon, categorically rejected the South’s attempt to discuss the nuclear issue, calling it “absurd” and warning that it could derail efforts to improve inter-Korean relations.
周二在边界举行的谈判中，朝鲜首席谈判代表李善权明确拒绝了韩国试图讨论朝鲜核问题的尝试，称之为“荒唐”，并警告说，讨论核问题可能会破坏改善朝韩关系的努力。
For decades, North Korea has refused to discuss its nuclear weapons program with the South, insisting that it is an issue to be addressed only by it and the United States.
几十年来，朝鲜一直拒绝与韩国讨论自己的核武器计划，坚称那是一个只能由朝鲜和美国来解决的问题。