AS we head deeper into summertime, and the days get lazier if not longer, our cultural alarm clocks begin to ring a bit more loudly.
盛夏逼近，漫长的白日愈来愈慵懒，我们的文化闹钟却开始响起来了。
All those ambitious plans that seemed so doable back on Memorial Day weekend — books to finally catch up on, theater to take in, concerts to attend, TV on the DVR to plow through — suddenly seem like impossible dreams as June has slipped away. Consider this your friendly Fourth of July wake-up call.
在阵亡将士纪念日的周末（各州不同，多为五月底——译注），这些雄心勃勃的计划似乎都很可行——终于开始阅读的书籍，还有舞台剧和音乐会、硬盘录像机里等待精挑细选的电视节目——但随着六月倏忽而逝，这一切又仿佛成了不可能实现的梦想。那么不妨把下文当做你的国庆节起床闹钟吧。
To help focus readers’ minds for the summer stretch run, we canvassed a mix of cultural figures — actors, directors, musicians, novelists, comedians, a news anchor, even a poet — to see what was on their must-read, must-attend and must-binge watch lists.
为了帮读者们的头脑好好在夏天里活动一下，我们请来了一些文化名人，有演员、导演、音乐家、小说家、喜剧演员、新闻主播，甚至还有诗人——谈一谈他们的必读书目、必需出席的活动和必需一口气看完的电视节目。
Their anticipatory answers cover a lot of eclectic ground. There are obscure indie bands from Michael Cera, foreign political dramas from Anderson Cooper and sci-fi books from the first lady of New York City, Chirlane McCray. British period drama intrigues Reggie Watts; cold, calculating femmes fatales await Megan Abbott; and cuddly cartoon emoticons fascinate B. J. Novak. Gene Simmons is planning to settle down with a book about one of his favorite subjects. And a tribute to an artist who most memorably sang about summertime is not just on Alfred Molina’s wish list; tickets are already in hand.
他们的回答涵盖很多领域。迈克尔·塞拉(Michael Cera)说了一些不知名的独立乐队，安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)提供了一些外国政治剧，而纽约市的第一夫人席琳·麦克雷(Chirlane McCray)提供了一些科幻小说。雷吉·沃茨(Reggie Watts)喜欢英国的年代剧；梅根·阿伯特(Megan Abbott)想看那些冷酷无情、工于心计的狐狸精们的故事；B·J·诺瓦克(B. J. Novak)迷恋可爱的卡通表情符。基恩·西蒙斯(Gene Simmons)打算好好看一本关于他感兴趣的那些题材的书。阿尔弗雷德·莫里纳(Alfred Molina)想去看一场演唱会，是专门向一位曾以歌唱夏日而闻名的歌手致敬的，他可不只是说说而已，票都已经买好了。
Our cultural focus group’s responses, edited and condensed from email and telephone interviews, can be found below.
我们的采访通过电子邮件和电话进行，回复经过了编辑和浓缩，如下：
MEGAN ABBOTT, author of “The Fever”
梅根·阿伯特，《高热》(The Fever)的作者。
Lightness — picnics, fireworks and hammocks — is everywhere in the summer, so I tend to go for the dark. I’ll likely be devoting Sunday nights to “The Leftovers,” the HBO series based on Tom Perrotta’s haunting novel. For music, I won’t miss the Rock*A*Teens at Le Poisson Rouge in August — songs of heat and swampy desire. I also plan to take in two great film series here in New York: the “Femmes Noirs” series at Film Forum and “Lady in the Dark: Crime Films From Columbia Pictures” at MoMA. What could be better on a sultry summer afternoon than sitting in a cool theater, watching Rita Hayworth ensnare Glenn Ford just by peeling off one glove?
夏天洋溢着轻松的气氛，野餐、焰火和吊床到处都是，所以我打算沉重一点。我准备在星期日的晚上收看HBO的电视剧《守望尘世》(The Leftovers)，它是根据汤姆·佩罗塔(Tom Perrotta)令人难忘的小说改编。音乐方面，我不会错过Rock*A*Teens乐队8月在红色泊松的演出，他们的歌中充满热情和潮湿的欲望。我还打算在纽约看两个伟大的电影系列，一个是电影论坛上映的“黑色妖姬”(Femmes Noirs)系列，还有MoMA的“黑暗中的女人：哥伦比亚电影公司的犯罪片”系列。在闷热的夏日下午，坐在凉快的影院里，看丽塔·海华丝(Rita Hayworth)只脱下一只手套就迷倒了格伦·福特(Glenn Ford)，还有什么比这更美妙。
B. J. NOVAK, TV writer and producer, and author of “One More Thing”
B·J·诺瓦克，电视编剧与制作人，《还有件事》(One More Thing)的作者。
“Nathan for You” is the perfect summer TV comedy. It’s sublimely smart and stupid at the same time. Nathan Fielder, a gifted deadpan comedian, offers brilliantly bad business advice to small companies willing to try anything, and they film the results. But I believe the most significant moment in pop culture this summer, in terms of the total effect it has on hearts and minds, will be the release of 250 new emoji characters this July. Emoji are cartoon icons representing facial expressions and other objects and symbols, and are used by millions of people (including myself) to punctuate or replace certain words in conversations over text message. Imagine if 250 words were being added to the English language this summer, and many were likely to immediately become among the most commonly used words in the world! That’s what’s happening this summer with emoji.
《救援高手》(Nathan for You)是最好的夏日电视喜剧。它既聪明又愚蠢，令人赞叹。内森·菲尔德(Nathan Fielder)是个天才的冷面笑星，他向乐于尝试一切的小公司们提出绝糟的商业建议，然后剧组把结果录下来。但我相信，从思想与感情的整体影响而言，今年夏天流行文化中最精彩的时刻肯定是7月份emoji推出250个新表情的时候。emoji是一种代表面部表情和其他各种东西的卡通符号，被成千上百万人使用，在发短信的时候用来加强或代替某些文字，我也是使用者之一。试想今年夏天英语里就要加上250个新单词了，其中不少或许还会马上成为世界上最常用的词！今年夏天，emoji就是这样的。
MICHAEL CERA, actor, in the forthcoming Broadway production of “This Is Our Youth”
迈克尔·塞拉，演员，即将出演百老汇剧目《这是我们的青春》(This Is Our Youth)。
This summer, more than anything, I’m looking to the reunion of one of my favorite bands, the Unicorns. They perfectly embody the spirit of summer with dueling vocals, lush synthesizers and soulful perversions.
今年夏天，无论如何，我要去再看看我最喜欢的乐队之一“独角兽”(Unicorns)。互相争斗的人声、丰富的合成器效果和情感的扭曲完美地传达了夏日的精神。
ALEXIS KRAUSS, singer, Sleigh Bells
亚力克西斯·克劳斯(Alexis Krauss)，歌手，雪橇铃乐队(Sleigh Bells)
I’m eagerly awaiting the new season of “Masters of Sex.” The chemistry between Lizzy Caplan and Michael Sheen is just irresistible! I love the show’s attention to historical detail and its meticulously crafted aesthetic. I’m off to Europe for a three-week tour, but as soon as I’m back, I’ll be binge-watching the first few episodes with my mom, who is also obsessed.
我热切地渴望着《性爱大师》(Masters of Sex)的新一季。莉齐·卡普兰(Lizzy Caplan)和迈克尔·希恩(Michael Sheen)之间的化学反应令人无法抗拒！这部剧集关注历史细节，奉行精工细作的美学，我非常喜欢。我要到欧洲去做为时三周的巡演，但是等我一回来，就要和我妈妈一起一口气看几集，她也很迷这个剧。
REGGIE WATTS, musician and comedian, IFC’s “Comedy Bang! Bang!,” performer at the premiere of “Thanksgiving” 
雷吉·沃茨，乐手和喜剧演员，主演IGC的《喜剧大暴走》(Comedy Bang! Bang!)、出演第一版的《感恩节》(Thanksgiving)。
I’ve been watching “The Hour.” which is superb, and it’s really transportive and immersive. It’s nice to get a British perspective of that time period, the 1950s, revolving around a television show that reports on current events. And it’s also very sexy. And “Defiance.” It’s a crazy postapocalyptic, science-fiction show with a lot of interspecies drama. I really enjoy the stepdaughter of the main character, Irisa, played by Stephanie Leonidas. The makeup is insane. It’s probably one of the best alien characters, makeup-wise, that I’ve seen in ages.
我一直在追《演播时刻》(The Hour)，它精彩极了，真的栩栩如生地表现了那个时代。它是围绕着一档播报时事的电视节目来进行的，能让人了解英国在20世纪50年代时的风貌，这很棒。而且也很性感。还有《抗争》(Defiance)，是一部疯狂的后末日科幻剧，有很多跨物种的戏剧情节。我很喜欢主角的继女艾瑞莎(Irisa)，是斯坦芬尼·莱奥尼达斯(Stephanie Leonidas)演的。化妆真是疯狂。从化妆角度来说，这可能是我这么多年来看过的最棒的外星人角色之一。
ANDERSON COOPER, CNN anchor
安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)，CNN主播
I seem to be on a foreign TV binge lately. I’m really looking forward to watching all the seasons of “Borgen.” It’s a Danish drama about the prime minister. I know it may not sound like the most riveting TV, but it really is well done. Who knew Danish politics were so exciting?
我近来喜欢一口气看很多外国电视剧。我真的很想看完整部《权利的堡垒》(Borgen)。这是一部丹麦电视剧，讲的是他们的首相。我知道这听上去可能不像是最扣人心弦的剧集，但确实很棒。谁知道丹麦的政坛也能这么精彩呢？
I really want to see the Jeff Koons show at the Whitney. I recently purchased a sculpture he is going to make out of Sean Penn’s guns. I also can’t wait to visit the new Morbid Anatomy Museum in Brooklyn. I know it sounds strange, but it looks really cool.
我还想看杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)在惠特尼的展览。我最近买了他的一件雕塑，他打算用西恩·潘(Sean Penn)的枪来制作它。我还迫不及待地想去参观布鲁克林的病理解剖学博物馆。我知道这听起来很奇怪，但看上去确实很酷。
SARA MEARNS, principal dancer, New York City Ballet
萨拉·默恩斯(Sara Mearns)，纽约市芭蕾舞团首席舞者
I’m really looking forward to the Fire Island Dance Festival in July. It’s for a great cause, Dancers Responding to AIDS, and I’ve never been to Fire Island before, so I’m really excited. I’m also a crazy Adam Lambert fan, so his concert with Queen is a must-see on my summer list!
我真的很期待7月的火岛舞蹈节。它有一个崇高的动机：舞者对艾滋病采取行动。我以前从没去过火岛，所以真的很兴奋。我也是亚当·兰伯特(Adam Lambert)的狂热拥趸，所以他和“皇后”(Queen)的演唱会是我夏天必看的盛会。
ALFRED MOLINA, actor, “Spider-Man 2” and the forthcoming “Matador” on El Rey 
阿尔弗莱德·莫利纳，演员，出演《蜘蛛侠2》(Spider-Man 2)，在即将上映的电影《斗牛士》(Matador)中饰演艾尔·莱(El Rey)
When I was growing up in London, the Hollywood Bowl sounded amazingly exotic — this huge open-air concert hall in the middle of the Hollywood Hills. In my young teenage mind, it was like the eighth wonder of the world. And in all the years I’ve lived in Los Angeles — 20 years — I had never been. But I went to a James Taylor concert a few weeks ago, and I’m going to a jazz concert there this week, which is a big tribute to Ella Fitzgerald. We’ll do the Hollywood Bowl thing and take a picnic.
我在伦敦长大的时候，好莱坞剧场听上去很有异国风味——巨大的露天音乐厅，坐落在好莱坞群山之间。在我年轻的心中简直就像世界第八大奇迹一样。如今我在洛杉矶住了有20年，却从来没去过那里。但是几星期前我去那里看了一场詹姆斯·泰勒(James Taylor)演唱会，这星期还要去看一场爵士演唱会，是向艾拉·菲茨杰拉德(Ella Fitzgerald)致敬的盛大演出。我们要做人们在好莱坞剧场常做的事情——来一次野餐。
LILY RABE, actress, “Much Ado About Nothing” at Shakespeare in the Park
莉莉·拉贝(Lily Rabe)，演员，“中央公园露天剧场中的莎士比亚”(Shakespeare in the Park)活动中参演《无事生非》(Much Ado About Nothing)
Kate Atkinson’s “Life After Life” and Donna Tartt’s “The Goldfinch” are burning holes in my night stand, and I can’t wait to burrow into them. Summer reading list hibernation!
凯特·阿特金森(Kate Atkinson)的《生命不息》(Life After Life)和唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)的《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)快要把我的床头柜烧穿了，我等不及要去读它们。疯狂读书季开始了！
RICHARD LAGRAVENESE, director, writer of “Behind the Candelabra” and co-creator of WE’s “The Divide”
理查德·拉格拉文斯(Richard Lagravenese)，导演，《烛台之后》(Behind the Candelabra)的编剧，WE的《隔绝》(The Divide)主创
In TV, I’m looking forward to seeing “The Knick,” a 10-episode series directed by Steven Soderbergh. In film, “The Giver” was a passion of Jeff Bridges for many years, so I’m excited to see that.” I’m most excited about what’s coming in theater: “Sex With Strangers,” at Second Stage, “King Lear” at Shakespeare in the Park and Kenneth Lonergan’s “This Is Our Youth.”
在电视方面，我很期待看到《尼克病院》(The Knick)，这是一部十集的剧集，由史蒂文·索德伯格(Steven Soderbergh)导演。在电影方面，《记忆传授人》(The Giver)是杰夫·布里吉斯(Jeff Bridges)多年来的热情之作，所以我也很期待。在舞台剧方面，我最想看第二舞台上演的《与陌生人的性爱》(Sex With Stragers)和“中央公园露天剧场中的莎士比亚”推出的《李尔王》(King Lear)，以及肯尼斯·罗纳根(Kenneth Lonergan)的《这是我们的青春》(This Is Our Youth)。
DIANA GABALDON, author of the “Outlander” books, the basis of the new Starz series
戴安娜·盖伯顿(Diana Gabaldon)，《异乡人》(Outlander)系列书籍的作者，Starz台即将将其改编为电视剧
I don’t watch television at all when I’m in the final phases of writing a book, so I have a list of things as long as your arm to binge-watch, starting with “House of Cards,” “Game of Thrones” and “Orange Is the New Black.” And the latest season of “Doctor Who,” my longtime favorite. I’m looking forward to Louise Penny’s new book, which is called “The Long Way Home” and is coming out in August. She’s got a very eccentric, very intimate sense of character. And “The Magus of Hay,” by Phil Rickman. He’s a British writer, and his books are set on the Welsh-English border. He has a series of what are ostensibly crime novels, in that there is a murder in every book. But his protagonist is a woman named Merrily Watkins, who is an Anglican vicar, a widow with an obnoxious teenage daughter. And she’s also the official exorcist for the Diocese of Hereford.
我在完成一本书的最后阶段不看电视，所以现在有一大堆东西要一口气看完，先是《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)、《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)和《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)。还有最新一季的《神秘博士》(Doctor Who)，这是我长久以来的最爱。我开渴望读到路易斯·佩尼(Louise Penny)的新书《回家的长路》(The Long Way Home)，即将在8月出版。她的角色有种非常古怪又非常亲密的感觉。还有菲尔·里克曼(Phil Rickman)的《干草魔法师》(The Magus of Hay)，他是个英国作家，他的书背景都设定在英格兰和威尔士的边界。他有一个系列，表面上是犯罪小说，每本书里都有一桩谋杀案，但主角其实是一个名叫梅瑞丽·沃特金斯(Merrily Watkins)的女人，一个圣公会教区牧师，一个寡妇，带着十几岁年纪、易受伤害的女儿生活。她也是赫里福德教区的正式驱魔人。
JAN MAXWELL, actress, “Follies” and “The City of Conversation”
珍·马克斯威尔(Jan Maxwell)，演员，出演《荒唐事》(Follies)和《对话之城》(The City of Conversation)
I am looking forward to rest, rest, rest and want to see the play “The Who & the What,” the movie “Ida,” “Hedwig and the Angry Inch,” read the novel “Beyond the Bedroom Wall,” by Larry Woiwode, which Anthony Giardina, the playwright of “City of Conversation,” gave me opening night. And I love the Midsummer Night Swing dance festival at Lincoln Center. So sultry and sensual, summer in N.Y.C.
我期待着休息、休息、休息，还想看舞台剧《谁和什么》(The Who & the What)，电影《修女艾达》(Ida)、《摇滚芭比》(Hedwig and the Angry Inch)，看拉里·沃伊沃德(Larry Woiwode)的小说《卧室之外》(Beyond the Bedroom Wall)，这是《对话之城》的编剧安东尼·基雅迪纳(Anthony Giardina)在该剧首映之夜给我的。我也想去看林肯中心的仲夏夜摇摆舞节。纽约城的夏天是那么性感撩人。
GENE SIMMONS, of Kiss, and the forthcoming AMC reality series “4th and Loud”
基恩·西蒙斯，“吻”(Kiss)乐队，即将在AMC台的真人秀《第四与响亮》(4th and Loud)中亮相
Started reading “Money: The Unauthorized Biography,” by Felix Martin. Fascinating how paper or gold or commodities are valuable, simply because we all agree they are. “Dawn of the Planet of the Apes " — human beings need to get their comeuppance for all the grief we’ve caused. “Tyrant” — if “Homeland” is any indication, this new Israeli-inspired TV show should be worth watching.
我先是要读菲利克斯·马丁(Felix Martin)的《金钱：未经许可的传记》。纸张、黄金或商品何以有价值，只是因为我们都同意它们有价值，这真是令人着迷。还有《猩球崛起2：黎明之战》(Dawn of the Planet of the Apes)——人类要因为我们造成的所有痛苦而受到惩罚了。还有《暴君》(Tyrant)——你要是喜欢看《国土安全》(Homeland)，那么这部新的以以色列为灵感的电视剧肯定也值得一看。
CARLY SIMON, singer
卡莉·西蒙(Carly Simon)，歌手
This summer, I’d like to have a rapprochement with at least one person I’ve had a falling out with in the past. This is for obvious reasons, which include being at peace with myself and others.
今年夏天，我要和以前吵过架的人恢复友谊，至少要成功一个。这么做有很多明显的原因，其中之一是我要同自己与他人心平气和地相处。
I’m also excited to see “Alive Inside” again when it hits theaters. It’s an incredibly important documentary that everyone, young and old, should see. It’s an intensely moving, beautiful depiction of the power that music has, in so many different ways and for so many different kinds of functioning.
我期待着看到《音乐之生》(Alive Inside)重演。这是一部非常重要的纪录片，不论是年轻人还是老年人，所有人都应该看看。它很感人，非常美好地描述了音乐在许多方面的力量，以及各种不同的功能。