SEOUL, South Korea — President Moon Jae-in of South Korea proposed on Saturday that his country and North Korea form a unified team to compete in the 2018 Winter Olympics, to be held in the city of Pyeongchang in the South.
韩国首尔——韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)周六提议韩国和朝鲜联合组队，参加在韩国城市平昌举行的2018年冬奥会。
Mr. Moon made the overture during a speech at the opening ceremony of a World Taekwondo championship in the city of Muju in South Korea. The North does not compete in the championship but sent a demonstration team, led by Jang Woong, its delegate to the International Olympic Committee. It was the first sports exchange since Mr. Moon took office.
文在寅是在韩国茂朱的世界跆拳道锦标赛开幕式上发表讲话时提出这一建议的。朝鲜没有参加该锦标赛，但派出了一支由朝鲜奥林匹克委员会(International Olympic Committee)代表姜雄（Jang Woong，音）率领的表演队。这是文在寅上台后两国进行的首次体育交流。
The South Korean president, who advocates dialogue and reconciliation with North Korea, recalled past instances where the two Koreas fielded joint teams in international sports competitions and their national teams marched together in Olympic Games.
主张同朝鲜对话并达成和解的文在寅回忆了过去朝韩联合组队参加国际体育比赛，以及两国代表队在奥运会开幕式上携手亮相的情况。
“I want to see the same glory again,” he said, asking Mr. Jang for cooperation. “I want to feel the same Olympic sensation.”
“我希望再次目睹同样的盛况，”他说，并请姜雄合作。“我希望感受到同样的奥运情。”
If they form a unified team for the Pyeongchang Olympics, it would be a major milestone in inter-Korean relations. South Korean officials hope such a feat would help create a thaw on the Korean Peninsula after years of tensions spurred by the North’s nuclear and missile tests.
如果联合组队参加平昌奥运会，这将是朝韩关系的重大里程碑。数年来，朝鲜的导弹和核试验导致双边关系紧张。韩国官方希望这样一项成就能够有助于缓和朝鲜半岛的紧张局势。
North Korea has yet to announce whether it wants to attend the Pyeongchang Olympics. The North and South remain bitter political and sports rivals.
朝鲜尚未宣布是否愿意参加平昌冬奥会。朝鲜和韩国在政治和体育上依然势不两立。
When the South hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics, in Seoul, the North boycotted it. But strong ethnic nationalism also compels people in one Korea to cheer for the other Korea when it competes with any other country, especially Japan, which once ruled the Korean Peninsula as a colony.
韩国1988年在首尔举办夏季奥运会时，遭到朝鲜的抵制。但当韩国或朝鲜与另一个国家，尤其是曾对朝鲜半岛实行殖民统治的日本比赛时，强烈的族群民族主义还是会促使双方民众为彼此加油。
Efforts by both sides to seek reconciliation through sports exchanges have sometimes led to breakthroughs. In 1991, the two Koreas fielded a joint team to an international table-tennis championship and international youth soccer tournament.
双方通过体育交流达成和解的努力，有时会取得突破。1991年，双方联合组队参加世界乒乓球锦标赛和足球世青赛。
In 2000, the year the two countries held their historic first summit meeting, their delegations marched together at the opening ceremony of the Sydney Olympics. They again marched together at the 2004 Athens Olympics, using the single name “Korea” and carrying a “Korea is one” flag. But they competed separately in 2000 and 2004.
2000年，韩朝举行历史性的首次高峰会晤，两国的代表队也一起亮相悉尼奥运会的开幕式。在2004年的雅典奥运会上，两国以“Korea”作为名称再次共同入场，高举“朝鲜半岛是一家”的旗帜出场。但在这两届奥运会上，两国均单独比赛。
The potential implications of millions of Koreans cheering together for their unified team could be huge — a prospect that could further advance Mr. Moon’s policy of promoting dialogue and exchanges with the North.
数以百万计的朝鲜半岛民众一起为联队加油可能会带来巨大的潜在影响。它可能会进一步推进文在寅促进与朝鲜对话和交流的政策。
But past efforts to form a unified Olympic team have all faltered over politically delicate details such as whether a joint team should have an equal number of players from each side, which side should choose the head coach and where the team would train.
但过去组建联合奥运会代表队的努力都因政治上的敏感细节而受阻，如联队中两国的运动员人数是否应该均等、哪一方挑选总教练和代表队在哪里训练等等。
Such efforts for unity in sports also provide a testing ground for overcoming obstacles to reunification. For instance, after seven decades of division, athletes from the two Koreas use sharply different sports vocabulary. In South Korea, broadcasts of soccer matches are interspersed with English terms like “goal post,” “penalty kick” and “midfield.” In the North, where state linguists abhor foreign terminology, athletes use Korean translations not readily understandable to South Korean players.
为联合参赛而作出的这类努力，也为克服统一面临的障碍提供了试验机会。比如，经历了70年的分裂后，两国运动员的体育用语明显不同。韩国播出的足球比赛节目夹杂着“goal post（球门柱）”、“penalty kick（罚点球）”和“midfield（中场）”这样的英语术语，但在官方语言学家讨厌外国术语的朝鲜，运动员用的是经过翻译的朝鲜语版本，对韩国运动员来说，那些说法并不好懂。
The two Koreas have even developed different versions of taekwondo, their traditional martial art. The North is promoting the rival International Taekwondo Federation. The South’s version became an Olympic medal sport in 2000.
朝韩甚至在它们的传统武术跆拳道上，也发展出了不同的版本。朝鲜正在推广与世界跆拳道联盟抗衡的国际跆拳道联盟(International Taekwondo Federation)，韩国的跆拳道则在2000年成为了奥运会比赛项目。
On Saturday, Mr. Moon welcomed the North Korean taekwondo team to the South, which hopes to send its demonstration team to an International Taekwondo Federation competition to be held in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, in September.
周六，文在寅对赴韩的朝鲜跆拳道代表队表示欢迎。韩国也希望派自己的表演队参加9月在朝鲜首都平壤举行的一项国际跆拳道联盟比赛。
He said the two taekwondo federations’ cooperation should inspire the two Koreas to work for a joint Olympic team. “Sports are a powerful tool to demolish walls and separation,” he said.
他说，两个跆拳道联盟的合作应鼓舞双方为组建一支奥运会联合代表队而努力。“体育是一件消除隔阂和分裂的强大工具，”他说。