JOHANNESBERG — Nelson Mandela, South Africa’s first black president and an enduring icon of the struggle against racial oppression, died on Thursday, the government announced, leaving the nation without its moral center at a time of growing dissatisfaction with the country’s leaders.
约翰内斯堡——南非政府宣布，南非首位黑人总统、反对种族压迫的不朽偶像纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)于周四逝世。在这个民众对该国领导人日益不满的时期，该国突然失去了自己的道义支柱。
“Our nation has lost its greatest son,” President Jacob Zuma said in a televised address on Thursday night, adding that Mr. Mandela had died at 8:50 p.m. local time. “His tireless struggle for freedom earned him the respect of the world. His humility, his compassion and his humanity earned him their love.”
南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)于周四晚间发表电视讲话，称曼德拉于当地时间晚上8点50分逝世，“我们的国家失去了最伟大的一个儿子，”他说。“他争取自由的不懈斗争为他赢得了全世界的尊重。他的谦逊、同情与仁慈又为他赢得了全世界的爱戴。”
Mr Zuma called Mr. Mandela’s death “the moment of our deepest sorrow,” and said that South Africa’s thoughts were now with the former president’s family. “They have sacrificed much and endured much so that our people could be free,” he said.
祖玛称曼德拉的去世“是我们最悲伤的时刻”，并表示南非人民都在牵挂这位前总统的家人。他说，“他们付出了太多的牺牲与忍耐，就为了让我们的人民获得自由。”
Mr. Mandela spent 27 years in prison after being convicted of treason by the white minority government, only to forge a peaceful end to white rule by negotiating with his captors after his release in 1990. He led the African National Congress, long a banned liberation movement, to a resounding electoral victory in 1994, the first fully democratic election in the country’s history.
在白人少数统治政府宣判曼德拉犯有叛国罪后，曼德拉在监狱中度过了27年。1990年获释后，曼德拉仍然与长期囚禁他的人进行谈判，最终推动了白人统治的和平终结。1994年，他领导非洲人国民大会（African National Congress，简称ANC）——长期遭禁的解放运动——在选举中获得压倒性胜利，这是该国历史中首次完全民主的选举。
Mr. Mandela, who was 95, served just one term as South Africa’s president and had not been seen in public since 2010, when the nation hosted the soccer World Cup. But his decades in prison and his insistence on forgiveness over vengeance made him a potent symbol of the struggle to end this country’s brutally codified system of racial domination, and of the power of peaceful resolution in even the most intractable conflicts.
终年95岁的曼德拉只担任过一届南非总统，自南非举办世界杯的2010年以来就不曾公开露面。然而，由于他数十年的监狱生涯，以及他以宽恕取代报复的坚定态度，他成为了一个强有力的象征，象征着结束南非根深蒂固的残酷种族制度的斗争，也象征着和平解决最棘手冲突的力量。
Years after he retreated from public life, his name still resonated as an emblem of his effort to transcend decades of racial division and create what South Africans called a Rainbow Nation.
退出公众生活数年之后，他的名字依然能够引起共鸣，名字本身就象征着他击败数十年的种族隔离，开创南非人所说的彩虹之国的努力。
“His commitment to transfer power and reconcile with those who jailed him set an example that all humanity should aspire to,” a grim President Obama said Thursday evening, describing Mr. Mandela as an “influential, courageous and profoundly good” man who inspired millions — including himself — to a spirit of reconciliation.
周四晚间，神色严肃的奥巴马总统表示，“他义无反顾地交出权力，并与关押他的人达成和解，这些行为树立了一个全人类都应该效仿的榜样。”奥巴马称曼德拉是一个“具有影响力和勇气、无比优秀的”人物，曼德拉的和解精神启发了包括他自己在内的数百万人。
Mr. Mandela and Mr. Obama both served as the first black leaders of their nations, and both men won the Nobel Peace Prize. But the American president has shied away from comparisons, often noting that his own sacrifices would never compare to the ones that Mr. Mandela endured.
曼德拉和奥巴马都是各自国家的首位黑人总统，两人都获得了诺贝尔和平奖。不过，美国总统一直都谦逊地避开这种比较，经常称自己付出的牺牲永远无法与曼德拉经历的苦难相比。
Mr. Obama said that the world would “not likely see the likes of Nelson Mandela again,” and he noted that the former South African president had once said that he was “not a saint, unless you think of a saint as a sinner who keeps on trying.”
奥巴马说，世界上“不太可能会出现另一个纳尔逊·曼德拉式的人物”。他还指出，曼德拉曾表示自己“不是圣人，除非你认为圣人就是不断努力改变自我的罪人”。
Mr. Mandela’s death comes during a period of deep unease and painful self-examination for South Africa.
目前，南非正在经历剧烈的动荡和痛苦的自我检视。
In the past year and a half, the country has faced perhaps its most serious unrest since the end of apartheid, provoked by a wave of wildcat strikes by angry miners, a deadly response on the part of the police, a messy leadership struggle within the A.N.C. and the deepening fissures between South Africa’s rulers and its impoverished masses.
过去的一年半，南非遭遇的或许是种族隔离结束以来最严重的动荡：愤怒的矿工掀起抗议浪潮，警方对此进行了致命打压，非洲人国民大会内部发生混乱的领导层争斗，南非统治阶层和穷苦大众之间的矛盾也在不断加深。
Scandals over corruption involving senior members of the party have fed a broader perception that Mr. Mandela’s near saintly legacy from the years of struggle has been eroded by a more recent scramble for self-enrichment among a newer elite.
ANC高级成员涉嫌腐败的丑闻使得越来越多的人认为，曼德拉经过多年斗争积下的几近圣徒的精神遗产，已经因为新一代精英阶层近期的牟利争斗受到了损害。
After spending decades in penurious exile, many political figures returned to find themselves at the center of a grab for power and money. Mr. Zuma himself was charged with corruption before rising to the presidency in 2009, though the charges were dropped on largely technical grounds. He has faced renewed scrutiny in the past year over $27 million spent in renovations to his house in rural Zululand.
经历了数十年极度艰难的流亡生活后，许多政治人物都在回国之时发现，自己处在了争权夺利的中心。2009年成为总统之前，祖马本人就曾被指控贪污腐败，尽管这些指控主要因为技术上的原因得到了撤销。去年他再次面临审查，原因是他曾斥资2700万美元（约合1.6亿元人民币）翻修自己位于祖鲁兰郊区的房子。
Graphic cellphone videos of police officers abusing people they have detained have further fueled anger at a government seen increasingly out of touch with the lives of ordinary South Africans.
一些触目惊心的手机视频显示警察虐待在押的人，这种现象进一步加剧了人们对政府的愤怒，而人们本来就认为，政府与普通南非人的生活越来越疏远。
Mr. Mandela served as president from 1994 to 1999, stepping aside to allow his deputy, Thabo Mbeki, to run and take the reins. Mr. Mandela spent his early retirement years focused on charitable causes for children and later speaking out about AIDS, which has killed millions of Africans, including his son Makgatho, who died in 2005.
曼德拉于1994年至1999年间担任南非总统，后来让自己的副手塔博·姆贝基(Thabo Mbeki)接替了总统之位。退休早期，曼德拉一直在关注与儿童有关的慈善事业，后来又为艾滋病(AIDS)大声疾呼。非洲已有数百万人死于艾滋病，2005年，他的儿子马克贾托(Makgatho)也死于艾滋病。
Mr. Mandela retreated from public life in 2004 at the age of 85, largely withdrawing to his homes in the upscale Johannesburg suburb of Houghton and his ancestral village in the Eastern Cape, Qunu.
2004年，曼德拉在85岁时退出公众视线，此后大部分时间都待在自己的住宅里，一处住宅位于约翰内斯堡的城郊上流社区霍顿，另一处位于东开普省古努镇(Qunu)他祖辈居住的村庄。