LONDON — A Briton and Frenchman were tentatively identified on Monday among a group of executioners seen in video clips released a day earlier by the Islamic State, the militant group, that had depicted the beheading of an American aid worker.
伦敦——激进团体伊斯兰国(Islamic State)周日公布了视频片段，显示一名美国救援工作者遭斩首。一天之后，外界初步确定了行刑人员里面一名英国人和一名法国人的身份。
The identifications were made by a British father whose son had traveled to Syria to join the Islamic State, and by senior French officials who saw in the video footage a French citizen they had been monitoring for years.
认出他们的分别是，一名英国的父亲，以及法国高级官员。这名英国父亲的儿子为了加入伊斯兰国而前往了叙利亚，而法国官员在视频中看到了他们已监控多年的一名该国公民。
Their assertions seemed likely to deepen apprehension about the role of foreign-born jihadists in the conflict and the possible hazards of their return to native lands.
这些说法或许会加深人们的担忧：外国出生的圣战分子在这场冲突中扮演了何种角色？他们返回本国的话又会带来怎样的潜在危害？
Thousands of young European Muslims have been reported traveling to join the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, in its campaign to revive a caliphate in areas under its control. The battle sharpened significantly in June when the Islamists flooded from Syria into Iraq.
据报道，数以千计的欧洲穆斯林青年前去加入了伊斯兰国（该组织还可被简称为ISIS或ISIL），参与在其控制的区域复兴“哈里发国”的运动。当这群伊斯兰主义者今年6月从叙利亚涌入伊拉克境内时，战事骤然升级。
The militant group distributed a video on Sunday showing that it had beheaded a fifth Western hostage, Peter Kassig, an American aid worker and former Army Ranger. The video featured a masked executioner with a British accent who has been nicknamed “Jihadi John” in British media accounts of the earlier executions.
周日，该武装团体发布了一则视频，其中显示第五名西方人质遭到斩首。受害者名为彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)，是一名来自美国的救援工作者，曾在美国陆军突击队服役。视频中的主要角色是一名带有英国口音的蒙面刽子手。在英国媒体关于之前几次处决的报道中，此人被称为“圣战约翰”(Jihadi John)。
British news reports on Monday said the father of another Briton who had joined ISIS thought the footage included a man who resembled his son. The father, Ahmed Muthana, from Cardiff, Wales, said, however, that he was “not quite sure” that the image showed his son Nasser, who reportedly traveled to Syria in June along with his brother Aseel to join the militants.
周一，英国媒体报道，另一名加入了ISIS的英国人的父亲认为，视频中有个人像是自己的儿子。这名父亲名为艾哈迈德 ·穆萨纳(Ahmed Muthana)，来自威尔士的加的夫。不过，他表示“没有十足的把握确定”画面中就是自己的儿子纳赛尔(Nasser)。据称，纳赛尔今年6月与兄弟艾西勒(Aseel)一道为了加入ISIS而前往了叙利亚。
“I was shown a picture of the video,” Mr. Muthana said. “I cannot confirm it is him, but I think it might be.”
“有人给我看了视频里的一张截图，”穆萨纳说。“我不能确定就是他，但我想大概是的。”
At the same time, the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, told a news conference in Paris that a Frenchman, Maxime Hauchard, had been identified in the footage.
在同一天，巴黎检察长弗朗索瓦·莫兰(François Molins)在新闻发布会上表示，确认视频中有一个名叫马克西姆·奥沙尔(Maxime Hauchard)的法国人。
Mr. Molins said Mr. Hauchard, a 22-year-old from Normandy who converted to Islam at 17, left France for Syria in August 2013 under the false pretext of humanitarian work.
奥沙尔现年22岁，来自诺曼底，17岁时皈依伊斯兰教。莫兰称，奥沙尔于2013年8月离开法国前往叙利亚，采用的借口是从事人道主义工作。
“In reality, like others, humanitarian work was only a facade,” Mr. Molins told reporters. “It appears clearly that he got involved in the fighting and joined the Islamic state.”
“实际上，跟其他人一样，人道主义工作只是个幌子，”莫兰告诉记者。“显然他参与了战斗，加入了伊斯兰国。”
Mr. Hauchard initially came to the attention of French authorities in 2011, after he joined radical groups and frequented websites preaching jihad.
2011年的时候，奥沙尔开始引起法国当局的注意。当时，他加入了一些激进团体，并且时常浏览宣扬圣战的网站。
The French interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, was not as definitive as Mr. Molins. Still, he said, an analysis by the French intelligence services showed a “strong possibility that a French citizen was directly involved in these despicable crimes.”
比起莫兰，法国内政部长贝尔纳·卡泽纳夫(Bernard Cazeneuve)没有那么笃定。不过，他还是表示，法国情报部门的分析显示，“很可能有一名法国公民直接参与了这些可耻的犯罪行径。”
Earlier this year, Mr. Hauchard described in a Skype interview with the television channel BFM TV how he had traveled freely to Syria, and had joined the Islamic State which “established the laws of Allah on earth.”
今年早些时候，奥沙尔通过Skype接受BFM电视台采访，讲述了他自愿前往叙利亚并加入伊斯兰国的经历。他说，伊斯兰国“在人间确立了安拉的教法。”
“It’s funny because in general people think that we have a sort of guru behind us that fills your head with stuff,” Mr. Hauchard said in the interview from the eastern Syrian city of Raqqa, which the Islamic State controls and considers its capital. “But in fact I didn’t meet anyone. I would have loved to meet a brother.”
“大家普遍认为，有位导师什么的在背后给我们的脑袋里灌输东西，实在是好笑，”奥沙尔在采访中说。“实际上我谁也没碰到。要是真能遇到一位兄弟倒是好了。”他当时身处叙利亚东部城市拉卡，而此地为伊斯兰国所控制，并被认为是其首都。
Mr. Hauchard spoke from a barracks where he was living with about 40 people, “mostly Arabs,” he said. He told BFM that he was getting trained before “leaving for an operation.”
奥沙尔与大约40人同住在一个营房里，“多数是阿拉伯人，”他说。他还告诉BFM自己正在接受训练，为“动身实施一项任务”做准备。
The beheadings have been depicted by militants as revenge for Western military actions in the war against the Islamic State. British and French warplanes have joined the American-led bombing campaign against militant targets in Iraq.
伊斯兰国的武装分子将斩首之举称为对西方打击自己的报复。英法两国的战机均参与了美国领导的打击伊拉克境内武装分子目标的轰炸行动。
Separately, in a case marked by extraordinary secrecy, a British judge on Monday lifted some reporting restrictions in a high-profile terrorism trial, enabling news media to report that a 26-year-old law student had been found guilty last week of one terrorism-related charge and had been sent for retrial on another.
在这些事件之外，英国一宗高度机密的案件周一也出现了进展。法官解除了对这一受到高度关注的恐怖主义审判的部分报道限制，使得媒体可以登出，一名26岁的法学专业学生上周被裁定与恐怖主义相关的一项罪名成立，还有另一项需重审。
The defendant, Erol Incedal, has denied accusations that he had been planning to attack prominent individuals such as the former British prime minister, Tony Blair, or to launch a broader attack modeled on the 2008 assault in Mumbai, India, in which more than 160 people were killed.
被告名为埃罗尔·因杰达尔(Erol Incedal)，他否认了指控。检方称，他一直在策划针对单个知名人士的袭击，或是进行大规模袭击。前者的目标包括英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)，后者则是仿效2008年在印度孟买发生的导致逾160人身亡的袭击。