The hostages were taken out of their cell one by one.
这些人质被一个接一个地带出了牢房。
In a private room, their captors asked each of them three intimate questions, a standard technique used to obtain proof that a prisoner is still alive in a kidnapping negotiation.
在密室里，抓捕他们的人问了每人三个很私密的问题，这是绑架谈判中的一种常规手法，用来证明人质仍然活着。
James Foley returned to the cell he shared with nearly two dozen other Western hostages and collapsed in tears of joy. The questions his kidnappers had asked were so personal (“Who cried at your brother’s wedding?” “Who was the captain of your high school soccer team?”) that he knew they were finally in touch with his family.
詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)回到牢房后喜极而泣，接着瘫倒在地。与他关在同一间牢房的，还有另外20多名西方人质。绑架他的人问的问题十分私密：“谁在你兄弟的婚礼上哭了？”“你高中足球队的队长是谁？”他知道，绑架者终于和他的家人取得了联系。
It was December 2013, and more than a year had passed since Mr. Foley vanished on a road in northern Syria. Finally, his worried parents would know he was alive, he told his fellow captives. His government, he believed, would soon negotiate his release.
这是2013年12月的一天，弗利在叙利亚北部的一条公路上失踪后，已经过了一年。他告诉狱友，忧心忡忡的父母终于可以知道他还活着，他相信，他的政府就会启动谈判，设法让他获释。
What appeared to be a turning point was in fact the start of a downward spiral for Mr. Foley, a 40-year-old journalist, that ended in August when he was forced to his knees somewhere in the bald hills of Syria and beheaded as a camera rolled.
表面看来仿佛是转折点，但对于40岁的记者弗利来说，这却是一段下坡路的起点。他的这段惨痛经历止于8月，那一刻，他被迫跪在叙利亚一个荒芜的山坡上，在摄像机的记录下被人斩首。
His videotaped death was a very public end to a hidden ordeal.
他的死亡视频被公之于众，以非常高调的方式，为一段隐秘的磨难画上了句号。
The story of what happened in the Islamic State’s underground network of prisons in Syria is one of excruciating suffering. Mr. Foley and his fellow hostages were routinely beaten and subjected to waterboarding. For months, they were starved and threatened with execution by one group of fighters, only to be handed off to another group that brought them sweets and contemplated freeing them. The prisoners banded together, playing games to pass the endless hours, but as conditions grew more desperate, they turned on one another. Some, including Mr. Foley, sought comfort in the faith of their captors, embracing Islam and taking Muslim names.
在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的叙利亚地下监狱网络所发生的故事极其残酷。弗利和其他人质经常遭到殴打并被施以水刑。连续几个月，一群武装人员让他们挨饿，还威胁要对他们处以死刑，之后他们被交给了另一群人，这些人给他们带来甜食，还曾考虑释放他们。囚犯曾团结在一起，用游戏来打发无穷无尽的时间。但是，随着情况变得越来越令人绝望，他们开始攻击彼此。包括弗利在内的一些人开始从他们的抓捕者的信仰中寻求安慰，接受伊斯兰教，还起了穆斯林名字。
Their captivity coincided with the rise of the group that came to be known as the Islamic State out of the chaos of the Syrian civil war. It did not exist on the day Mr. Foley was abducted, but it slowly grew to become the most powerful and feared rebel movement in the region. By the second year of Mr. Foley’s imprisonment, the group had amassed close to two dozen hostages and devised a strategy to trade them for cash.
在他们被监禁期间，一个后来以伊斯兰国为名的组织开始在叙利亚内战的乱局中崛起。弗利被绑架时，这个组织还不存在，但它后来却慢慢变成了该地区一个力量强大且令人畏惧的反叛运动。在弗利被关押的第二年，该组织一共获得了20多名人质，并制定了一个用他们来换取赎金的策略。
It was at that point that the hostages’ journeys, which had been largely similar up to then, diverged based on actions taken thousands of miles away: in Washington and Paris, in Madrid, Rome and beyond. Mr. Foley was one of at least 23 Western hostages from 12 countries, a majority of them citizens of European nations whose governments have a history of paying ransoms.
正是那时，这些人质此前大同小异的道路，开始变得不同，一切只因为数千英里之外（华盛顿、巴黎、马德里、罗马以及其他地方）的不同举措。至少23名西方人质被关押，来自12个国家，弗利就是其中之一。他们当中大部分是欧洲国家的公民，其政府有支付赎金的历史。
Their struggle for survival, which is being told now for the first time, was pieced together through interviews with five former hostages, locals who witnessed their treatment, relatives and colleagues of the captives, and a tight circle of advisers who made trips to the region to try to win their release. Crucial details were confirmed by a former member of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, who was initially stationed in the prison where Mr. Foley was held, and who provided previously unknown details of his captivity.
现在，他们为求生所做的努力第一次被公之于众。这些故事是根据对不同人士的采访拼凑起来的，这些人包括五名曾被关押的人质、见证了他们如何被对待的当地人、俘虏的亲属和同事，以及一小拨前往当地希望能为他们争取自由的顾问。一名前伊斯兰国（又称ISIS）成员证实了关键事实。此人最初在弗利被关押的监狱工作，他提供了一些关于弗利在狱中的不为人知细节。
The ordeal has remained largely secret because the militants warned the hostages’ families not to go to the news media, threatening to kill their loved ones if they did. The New York Times is naming only those already identified publicly by the Islamic State, which began naming them in August.
由于武装分子警告人质家属不要接受新闻媒体采访，威胁称如果他们接受了采访就杀死他们挚爱的亲人，他们经历的苦难基本上不为外人所知。《纽约时报》只提到了那些伊斯兰国公开确认的人质的姓名。
Officials in the United States say they did everything in their power to save Mr. Foley and the others, including carrying out a failed rescue operation. They argue that the United States’ policy of not paying ransoms saves Americans’ lives in the long run by making them less attractive targets.
美国官员表示，他们竭尽所能解救弗利和其他人，比如，实施救援行动，但最终失败。他们辩称，从长远来看，美国不缴纳赎金解救美国人质的政策使得美国人成为吸引力较小的绑架目标，从而会拯救生命。
Inside their concrete box, the hostages did not know what their families or governments were doing on their behalf. They slowly pieced it together using the only information they had: their interactions with their guards and with one another. Mostly they suffered, waiting for any sign that they might escape with their lives.
在混凝土的牢房内，人质不知道他们的家人或政府在为他们做什么。他们慢慢利用他们仅有的信息进行拼凑：与警卫的交流、彼此之间的交流。他们通常饱受痛苦，等待可能逃出生天的任何迹象。
The Grab
抓捕
It was only a 40-minute drive to the Turkish border, but Mr. Foley decided to make one last stop.
到土耳其边境只有40分钟的路程，但弗利决定最后一次停车休息。
In Binesh, Syria, two years ago, Mr. Foley and his traveling companion, the British photojournalist John Cantlie, pulled into an Internet cafe to file their work. The two were no strangers to the perils of reporting in Syria. Only a few months earlier, Mr. Cantlie had been kidnapped a few dozen miles from Binesh. He had tried to escape, barefoot and handcuffed, running for his life as bullets kicked up the dirt, only to be caught again. He was released a week later after moderate rebels intervened.
两年前，在叙利亚的比尼希镇，弗利和旅伴——英国摄影记者约翰·坎特利(John Cantlie)开车来到一家网吧，发送工作内容。两人对在叙利亚开展新闻报道的危险性并不陌生。几个月前，坎特利在距离比尼希镇几十英里远的地方遭到绑架。他曾试图逃跑，赤脚、戴着手铐的坎特利在子弹激起的尘土中拼命奔跑，但最后还是被抓住了。通过温和派反叛分子的干预，一周之后，坎特利获释。
They were uploading their images when a man walked in.
当一名男子走入网吧时，他们正在上传照片。
“He had a big beard,” said Mustafa Ali, their Syrian translator, who was with them and recounted their final hours together. “He didn’t smile or say anything. And he looked at us with evil eyes.”
“他满脸胡子，”两人的叙利亚翻译穆斯塔法·阿里(Mustafa Ali)说。“他不笑，也不说话。看着我们，目露凶光。”阿里详细描述了与他们在一起的最后几个小时的情况。
The man “went to the computer and sat for one minute only, and then left directly,” Mr. Ali said. “He wasn’t Syrian. He looked like he was from the Gulf.”
这名男子“走到电脑前，只坐了一分钟，然后直接走开了，”阿里说。“他不是叙利亚人。他看起来像是来自海湾地区。”
Mr. Foley, an American freelance journalist filing for GlobalPost and Agence France-Presse, and Mr. Cantlie, a photographer for British newspapers, continued transmitting their footage, according to Mr. Ali, whose account was confirmed by emails the journalists sent from the cafe to a colleague waiting for them in Turkey.
阿里称，美国自由记者弗利正在给《环球邮报》(GlobalPost)和法新社(Agence France-Presse) 发送报道，英国报纸的摄影师坎特利则继续传送视频。两人向在土耳其等待的同事发送的邮件证实了阿里的说法。
More than an hour later, they flagged a taxi for the 25-mile drive to Turkey. They never reached the border.
一个多小时以后，他们拦了一辆出租车前往25英里外的土耳其。但他们没有到达边境。
The gunmen who sped up behind their taxi did not call themselves the Islamic State because the group did not yet exist on Nov. 22, 2012, the day the two men were grabbed.
加速追赶出租车的持枪人员没有称自己是伊斯兰国，因为在2012年11月22日，也就是两人被抓的那天，该组织还不存在。
But the danger of Islamic extremism was already palpable in Syria’s rebel-held territories, and some news organizations were starting to pull back. Among the red flags was the growing number of foreign fighters flooding into Syria, dreaming of establishing a “caliphate.” These jihadists, many of them veterans of Al Qaeda’s branch in Iraq, looked and behaved differently from the moderate rebels. They wore their beards long. And they spoke with foreign accents, coming from the Persian Gulf, North Africa, Europe and beyond.
但在由叙利亚叛乱分子控制的地区，人们已经明显感受到伊斯兰极端主义的威胁，一些新闻机构开始撤离。四处弥漫着危险气息，越来越多的外国作战人员涌入叙利亚，梦想着建立一个“哈里发国”。圣战主义者中有很多是基地组织在伊拉克的分支机构的资深成员，他们的样貌与行为与温和派反叛分子不同。他们蓄着长须。他们来自波斯湾、北非、欧洲及更远的地方，说话带着外国口音。
A van sped up on the left side of the taxi and cut it off. Masked fighters jumped out. They screamed in foreign-accented Arabic, telling the journalists to lie on the pavement. They handcuffed them and threw them into the van.
一辆面包车在出租车的左侧加速，拦住了它。蒙面武装人员跳了出来。他们用带有外国口音的阿拉伯语尖声叫喊，让记者们躺在路上。这些人铐住记者，把他们扔进了面包车。
They left Mr. Ali on the side of the road. “If you follow us, we’ll kill you,” they told him.
他们把阿里留在路边，对他说，“如果跟过来，我们就杀了你。”
Over the next 14 months, at least 23 foreigners, most of them freelance journalists and aid workers, would fall into a similar trap. The attackers identified the locals whom journalists hired to help them, like Mr. Ali and Yosef Abobaker, a Syrian translator. It was Mr. Abobaker who drove Steven J. Sotloff, an American freelance journalist, into Syria on Aug. 4, 2013.
在接下来的14个月当中，至少有23名外国人——其中大多是自由记者和救援工作者——会掉入类似圈套。袭击者认出了被记者雇来当帮手的当地人，比如阿里和叙利亚翻译优素福·阿博巴克尔(Yosef Abobaker)。2013年8月4日，开车把美国自由记者史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)送入叙利亚的正是阿博巴克尔。
“We were driving for only 20 minutes when I saw three cars stopped on the road ahead,” he said. “They must have had a spy on the border that saw my car and told them I was coming.”
“当我看到三辆车停在前面时，我们才出发了20分钟，”他说。“他们肯定在边境安排了间谍，这个间谍看到了我的车，并告诉他们我来了。”
The kidnappings, which were carried out by different groups of fighters jousting for influence and territory in Syria, became more frequent. In June 2013, four French journalists were abducted. In September, the militants grabbed three Spanish journalists.
绑架事件变得越来越频繁。它们的实施者是在叙利亚争夺影响力和领土的不同武装组织。2013年6月，四名法国记者被捕。9月，这些武装人员又绑架了三名西班牙记者。
Checkpoints became human nets, and last October, insurgents waited at one for Peter Kassig, 25, an emergency medical technician from Indianapolis who was delivering medical supplies. In December, Alan Henning, a British taxi driver, disappeared at another. Mr. Henning had cashed in his savings to buy a used ambulance, hoping to join an aid caravan to Syria. He was kidnapped 30 minutes after crossing into the country.
检查站变成了抓人的网络。去年10月，武装人员在一个检查站等候25岁的彼得·卡西格(Peter Kassig)，他是一名来自印第安纳波利斯的急救医务人员，当时正在运输医疗物资。12月，英国出租车司机艾伦·亨宁(Alan Henning)在另一个检查站失踪。艾伦用他的存款买了一辆二手救护车，希望能跟随一个救援队进入叙利亚。他在进入叙利亚30分钟后被绑架。
The last to vanish were five aid workers from Doctors Without Borders, who were plucked in January from the field hospital in rural Syria where they had been working.
最后一批消失的是来自无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)的五名救援工作者。1月，他们突然被人从他们一直工作的位于叙利亚农村地区的战地医院带走。
The Interrogation
审讯
At gunpoint, Mr. Sotloff and Mr. Abobaker were driven to a textile factory in a village outside Aleppo, Syria, where they were placed in separate cells. Mr. Abobaker, who was freed two weeks later, heard their captors take Mr. Sotloff into an adjoining room. Then he heard the Arabic-speaking interrogator say in English: “Password.”
被枪口指着的索特洛夫和阿博巴克尔被带到了位于叙利亚阿勒颇之外的一个村庄纺织厂，然后被关进了不同的牢房。阿博巴克尔在两周后获释，他听到抓捕他们的人把索特洛夫带到了旁边的房间。然后他听到讲阿拉伯语的审讯者用英语说：“密码。”
It was a process to be repeated with several other hostages. The kidnappers seized their laptops, cellphones and cameras and demanded the passwords to their accounts. They scanned their Facebook timelines, their Skype chats, their image archives and their emails, looking for evidence of collusion with Western spy agencies and militaries.
这个过程也发生在了其他几名人质身上。绑架他们的人拿走了他们的电脑、手机和相机，要求他们提供账户密码。这些人查看了他们的Facebook时间轴、Skype聊天记录、图片库和电子邮件，以了解是否有证据证明他们曾与西方间谍机构和军方进行合作。
“They took me to a building that was specifically for the interrogation,” said Marcin Suder, a 37-year-old Polish photojournalist kidnapped in July 2013 in Saraqib, Syria, where the jihadists were known to be operating. He was passed among several groups before managing to escape four months later.
“他们把我带到了一个专门用来审讯的建筑物里，”37岁的波兰摄影记者马尔钦·祖德尔(Marcin Suder)说。他于2013年7月在叙利亚萨拉齐布(Saraqib)被绑架。众所周知，圣战主义者在那里活动。他被几个组织移交来移交去，最终在四个月后成功逃脱。
It was in the course of these interrogations that the jihadists found images of American military personnel on Mr. Foley’s laptop, taken during his assignments in Afghanistan and Iraq.
正是在这一系列审讯过程中，圣战主义者在弗利的电脑里发现了美国军事人员的照片，这些是他在阿富汗和伊拉克工作时拍摄的。
“In the archive of photographs he had personally taken, there were images glorifying the American crusaders,” they wrote in an article published after Mr. Foley’s death. “Alas for James, this archive was with him at the time of his arrest.”
“在他个人拍摄的图片库里，有些图片对美国战士进行了美化，”他们在弗利死后发表的一篇文章中写道。“我们为詹姆斯感到遗憾，在他被逮捕时，他身上带着这个图片库。”
A British hostage, David Cawthorne Haines, was forced to acknowledge his military background: It was listed on his LinkedIn profile.
英国人质戴维·考索恩·海恩斯(David Cawthorne Haines)被迫承认自己曾做过军事工作：这是列在他的领英(LinkedIn)个人资料中的。
The militants also discovered that Mr. Kassig, the aid worker from Indiana, was a former Army Ranger and a veteran of the Iraq war. Both facts are easy to find online, because CNN featured Mr. Kassig’s humanitarian work prominently before his capture.
武装分子还发现，来自印第安纳州的援助工作者卡西格曾在美国陆军游骑兵团服役，是一名伊拉克战争的老兵。这两个事实都很容易在网上找到，因为美国有线电视新闻网CNN在卡西格被抓前曾高调报道过他的人道主义工作。
The punishment for any perceived offense was torture.
对任何被认为是过错行为的惩罚，是酷刑。
“You could see the scars on his ankles,” Jejoen Bontinck, 19, of Belgium, a teenage convert to Islam who spent three weeks in the summer of 2013 in the same cell as Mr. Foley, said of him. “He told me how they had chained his feet to a bar and then hung the bar so that he was upside down from the ceiling. Then they left him there.”
“你可以看到他脚踝上的伤痕，”19岁的比利时人杰约恩·邦廷克(Jejoen Bontinck)提到弗利时说，这个皈依了伊斯兰教的年轻人在2013年夏天曾和弗利在同一个牢房中度过三个星期。“他告诉我，他们怎样把他的双脚锁在一个铁棍上，然后把铁棍挂起来，让他头朝下倒挂在天花板上。然后就不管他了。”
Mr. Bontinck, who was released late last year, spoke about his experiences for the first time for this article in his hometown, Antwerp, where he is one of 46 Belgian youths on trial on charges of belonging to a terrorist organization.
邦廷克在去年年底获释，他在这篇报道中第一次讲述了自己的经历，他现在家乡安特卫普，那里的法院正在审理一个针对46名比利时青年的案子，他是其中之一，他们被指控属于一个恐怖组织。
At first, the abuse did not appear to have a larger purpose. Nor did the jihadists seem to have a plan for their growing number of hostages.
起初，这种折磨似乎并没有更大的目的。圣战分子似乎对他们抓来的越来越多的人质也没有什么打算。
Mr. Bontinck said Mr. Foley and Mr. Cantlie had first been held by the Nusra Front, a Qaeda affiliate. Their guards, an English-speaking trio whom they nicknamed “the Beatles,” seemed to take pleasure in brutalizing them.
邦廷克说，弗利和坎特利先是被附属基地组织的努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)关押。他们给看管自己的人起了“披头士”的外号，那三个看管者会说英语，似乎从针对被关押者的暴力行为中得到乐趣。
Later, they were handed over to a group called the Mujahedeen Shura Council, led by French speakers.
后来，他们被移交给一个由讲法语的人领导的、名为圣战领导委员会(Mujahedeen Shura Council)的团伙。
Mr. Foley and Mr. Cantlie were moved at least three times before being transferred to a prison underneath the Children’s Hospital of Aleppo.
在被关进位于阿勒颇一家儿童医院地下的监狱之前，弗利和坎特利至少被转移过三次。
An American Named Hamza
一个叫哈姆扎的美国人
Mr. Foley converted to Islam soon after his capture and adopted the name Abu Hamza, Mr. Bontinck said. (His conversion was confirmed by three other recently released hostages, as well as by his former employer.)
邦廷克说，弗利在被抓后不久皈依了伊斯兰教，并开始用阿布·哈姆扎(Abu Hamza)这个名字。（他的皈依得到其他三位最近获释的人质的证实，也得到了他前雇主的证实。）
“I recited the Quran with him,” Mr. Bontinck said. “Most people would say, ‘Let’s convert so that we can get better treatment.’ But in his case, I think it was sincere.”
邦廷克说，“我曾和他一起背诵《可兰经》。大多数人都会说，‘我们皈依吧，这样他们会对我们好点。’但就他来说，我觉得那是诚心诚意的。”
Former hostages said that a majority of the Western prisoners had converted during their difficult captivity. Among them was Mr. Kassig, who adopted the name Abdul-Rahman, according to his family, who learned of his conversion in a letter smuggled out of the prison.
前人质说，大多数西方囚犯在被监禁的困难时刻皈依了伊斯兰教。其中包括卡西格，他改用了阿卜杜勒-拉赫曼(Abdul-Rahman)这个名字，据他的家人说，他的家人在从狱中偷运出来的信中得知了他的皈依。
Only a handful of the hostages stayed true to their own faiths, including Mr. Sotloff, then 30, a practicing Jew. On Yom Kippur, he told his guards he was not feeling well and refused his food so he could secretly observe the traditional fast, a witness said.
只有少数人质坚持了自己的宗教信仰，比如当时30岁的索特洛夫，他是个守教规的犹太人。在犹太教的赎罪日，他告诉看守他的人，自己身体不适，拒绝进食，这样他可以在暗地里恪守传统的禁食，一位目击者说。
Those recently released said that most of the foreigners had converted under duress, but that Mr. Foley had been captivated by Islam. When the guards brought an English version of the Quran, those who were just pretending to be Muslims paged through it, one former hostage said. Mr. Foley spent hours engrossed in the text.
那些最近获释的人质说，大多数外国人是被迫皈依的，但弗利是受到伊斯兰教吸引的。一位前人质说，当警卫给了他们一本英文版的《可兰经》后，那些假装成为穆斯林的人只是拿起翻了翻。弗利则花了很长的时间阅读它。
A Terrorist State
一个恐怖分子的国家
The Syrian civil war, previously dominated by secular rebels and a handful of rival jihadist groups, was shifting decisively, and the new extremist group had taken a dominant position. Sometime last year, the battalion in the Aleppo hospital pledged allegiance to what was then called the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
最早由世俗叛乱分子和少数相互竞争的圣战组织主导的叙利亚内战在迅速发生变化，一个新的极端组织开始占上风。在去年的某个时刻，看守阿勒颇医院监狱的队伍宣誓效忠当时名为伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国的组织。
Other factions of fighters joined forces with the group, whose tactics were so extreme that even Al Qaeda expelled it from its terror network. Its ambitions went far beyond toppling Bashar al-Assad, Syria’s president.
其他派别的战士加入到这个组织中来。其行为非常极端，以至于基地组织将其从恐怖网络中开除出去。该组织的野心远远超出了推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德。
Late last year, the jihadists began pooling their prisoners, bringing them to the same location underneath the hospital. By January, there were at least 19 men in one 20-square-meter cell (about 215 square feet) and four women in an adjoining one. All but one of them were European or North American. The relative freedom that Mr. Foley and Mr. Cantlie had enjoyed came to an abrupt end. Each prisoner was now handcuffed to another.
去年年底，这些圣战分子开始把他们的囚犯集中起来，把他们到关到了医院地下的同一个监狱。截至今年1月，至少有19个男子被关在一间20平方米的牢房中，隔壁牢房中还关了4个女子。除一人外，他们都是欧洲或北美人。弗利和坎特利曾享有的相对自由突然消失了。每个囚犯都被用手铐与另一个囚犯锁在一起。
More worrying was the fact that their French-speaking guards were replaced by English-speaking ones. Mr. Foley recognized them with dread.
更令人担忧的是，他们说法语的警卫被讲英语的人替换了。弗利认出了他们，这令他恐惧。
They were the ones who had called him “naughty” during the worst torture. They were the ones the hostages called the Beatles. They instituted a strict security protocol.
他们是在对他施毒刑时说他“不听话”的那些人。他们是被人质起绰号叫“披头士”的那些人。他们给人质制定了严格的安全管理规定。
“When the Beatles took over, they wanted to bring a certain level of order to the hostages,” said one recently freed European captive.
一位最近获释的欧洲人质说，“披头士接手后，他们想在人质中建立某种程度的秩序。”
The jihadists had gone from obscurity to running what they called a state.
这些圣战分子已从默默无闻者变为管理他们称之为国家的人。
In areas under their control, they established an intricate bureaucracy, including a tribunal, a police force and even a consumer protection office, which forced kebab stands to close for selling low-quality products.
在他们控制的地区，他们设立了复杂的官僚体系，包括法庭和警察，甚至还有一个消费者保护办公室，迫使出售劣质产品的烤肉商贩停业。
That focus on order extended to the hostages.
对秩序的关注也延伸到人质身上。
After months of holding them without making any demands, the jihadists suddenly devised a plan to ransom them. Starting last November, each prisoner was told to hand over the email address of a relative. Mr. Foley gave the address of his younger brother.
在关押了他们好几个月，并没有提出任何要求之后，圣战分子突然想出了一个用他们勒索赎金的计划。从去年11月起，他们叫每个囚犯交出一个亲属的电子邮件地址。弗利给出了弟弟的地址。
The group sent a blitz of messages to the families of the hostages.
这个团伙闪电般地向人质的家人发了一批电子邮件。
Those who were able to lay the emails side by side could see they had been cut and pasted from the same template.
把这些电子邮件放在一起来读的人可以看出，它们是用同一个模板剪贴出来的。
Triage
确定优先次序
By December, the militants had exchanged several emails with Mr. Foley’s family, as well as with the families of other hostages.
到了12月，武装分子已经与弗利的家人来往发送了几封电子邮件，也与其他人质的家属进行了邮件沟通。
After the first proof-of-life questions, Mr. Foley was hopeful that he would be home soon. As his second Christmas away from home approached, he threw himself into organizing a jailhouse version of Secret Santa, a tradition in the Foley household.
第一轮证明人还活着的问题之后，弗利有了能很快回家的希望。随着他远离家乡的第二个圣诞节的临近，他开始全力投入到组织一次监狱版本的神秘圣诞老人的活动，这是弗利家的节日传统。
Each prisoner gave another a gift fashioned out of trash. Mr. Foley’s Secret Santa gave him a circle made from the wax of a discarded candle to cushion his forehead when he bowed down to pray on the hard floor.
每个被关押者为他人制作了一个礼物，他们没有别的东西，只能用垃圾。弗利的秘密圣诞老人给他的礼物，是用废弃蜡烛的蜡制成的小圆圈，当他在硬地面上叩拜祈祷时，可以用来垫额头。
As the weeks passed, Mr. Foley noticed that his European cellmates were invited outside again and again to answer questions. He was not. Nor were the other Americans, or the Britons.
几周过去了，其间弗利注意到，他的欧洲狱友一次又一次地被叫出去回答问题。却没人叫他，也没有叫其他美国人、或英国人。
Soon, the prisoners realized that their kidnappers had identified which nations were most likely to pay ransoms, said a former hostage, one of five who spoke about their imprisonment in the Islamic State’s network of jails on the condition that their names be withheld.
很快，这些人质意识到，他们的绑架者已确定哪些国家最有可能支付赎金，一位前人质说，这是5位讲述了他们在伊斯兰国监狱网络的情况的人之一，他们都要求匿名。
“The kidnappers knew which countries would be the most amenable to their demands, and they created an order based on the ease with which they thought they could negotiate,” one said. “They started with the Spanish.”
一位人质说，“绑架者知道哪些国家最可能接受他们的要求，他们按照他们认为的谈判难易程度，编了一个名单。从西班牙开始。”
One day, the guards came in and pointed to the three Spanish captives. They said they knew the Spanish government had paid six million euros for a group of aid workers kidnapped by a Qaeda cell in Mauritania, a figure available online in articles about the episode.
一天，警卫走了进来，指着三个西班牙人质。他们说，他们知道，西班牙政府已为几名被一个毛里塔尼亚基地组织绑架的救援工作者支付了600万欧元(约合4630万元人民币)的赎金，那个钱数可以在网上关于绑架事件的文章中找到。
As the negotiations for the Spanish prisoners progressed rapidly — the first was released this March, six months after he had been captured — the militants moved on to the four French journalists.
随着针对西班牙人质的谈判取得迅速进展，（第一位人质在被抓六个月后，于今年三月获释）武装分子将目标转到四名被关押的法国记者身上。
The European prisoners went from answering additional personal questions to filming videos to be sent to their families or governments. The videos became more and more charged, eventually including death threats and execution deadlines in an effort to force their nations to pay.
这些欧洲囚犯从回答更多的个人问题转为拍摄视频，以发给其家人或政府。为了迫使他们的国家拿出赎金，视频中的情形变得越来越紧迫，最终包括死亡威胁和被处死的期限。
With time, the 23 prisoners were divided into two groups. The three American men and the three British hostages were singled out for the worst abuse, both because of the militants’ grievances against their countries and because their governments would not negotiate, according to several people with intimate knowledge of the events.
随着时间的流逝，23名人质被分为两组。三名美国男子和三名英国人质被挑出来接受最恶虐的暴行，因为武装分子向他们发泄了针对其国家的不满，也因为他们的政府不谈判，据几位熟悉情况的人说。
“It’s part of the DNA of this group to hate America,” one said. “But they also realized that the United States and Britain were the least likely to pay.”
其中一人说，“这个团伙的DNA中就有仇恨美国的成分。而且他们还意识到，美国和英国最不可能付出赎金。”
Within this subset, the person who suffered the cruelest treatment, the former hostages said, was Mr. Foley. In addition to receiving prolonged beatings, he underwent mock executions and was repeatedly waterboarded.
前人质说，在被单独挑出来的这些人中，遭受了最残酷待遇的是弗利。除了被长时间毒打外，他经历了多次模拟处决，还反复被施以水刑。
Meant to simulate drowning, the procedure can cause the victim to pass out. When one of the prisoners was hauled out, the others were relieved if he came back bloodied.
水刑是对溺水状态的模拟，该方法会导致受害人失去知觉。当一个囚犯被带出去后，如果他血迹斑斑地回来了，其他人都会松口气。
“It was when there was no blood,” a former cellmate said, “that we knew he had suffered something even worse.”
一名前狱友说，“如果没有流血，我们就知道他遭受了更糟糕的事情。”
As the negotiations dragged on, conditions became increasingly grim.
随着谈判的拖延，监狱的情况变得越来越糟糕。
During one extended stretch, the hostages received the equivalent of a teacup of food per day.
有一段相当长的时间，人质每天只得到一份相当于茶杯大小的食物。
Execution Deadlines
死刑期限
By April, nearly half of the captives had been freed. There had been no progress, however, on the ransom demands the jihadists had made for their American and British hostages.
到今年四月，已有将近一半的人质被释放。但是，圣战分子就美国和英国人质提出的赎金要求一直没有进展。
During the triage phase, the guards identified the single Russian hostage, a man known to the others as Sergey, as the least marketable commodity.
在确定优先次序阶段，看押者确定了人质中唯一的俄罗斯人是最没销路的货品，其他人叫他谢尔盖。
Identified in the Russian news media as Sergey Gorbunov, he was last seen in a video released in October 2013. Stuttering, he said that if Moscow failed to meet the kidnappers’ demands, he would be killed.
俄罗斯新闻媒体给出的名字是谢尔盖·戈尔布诺夫(Sergey Gorbunov)，他最后一次出现是在2013年10月的一段录像中，他结结巴巴地说，如果俄罗斯不能满足绑架者的要求，他将会被杀死。
Sometime this spring, the masked men came for him.
今年春天的某个时刻，蒙面人冲着他来了。
They dragged the terrified prisoner outside and shot him. They filmed his body. Then they returned to show the footage to the surviving hostages.
他们把这名惊恐的囚犯拖到外面，开枪打死了他。他们拍摄了他尸体的片子。然后拿回狱中，播放给活着的人质看。
“This,” they said, “is what will happen to you if your government doesn’t pay.”
他们说，“如果你们的政府不掏钱，这就是你们的下场。”
Goodbyes
告别
Mr. Foley watched as his cellmates were released in roughly two-week increments.
弗利看着他的狱友们一个个地被释放，间隔差不多是两周一次。
As the number of people in the 20-square-meter cell in Raqqa grew smaller, it was hard to stay hopeful. Yet Mr. Foley, who had campaigned for President Obama, continued to believe his government would come to his rescue, said his family, who learned this from recently freed hostages.
随着拉卡的这间20平方米牢房中的人数减少，保持乐观情绪也就更难了。然而，曾为美国总统奥巴马竞选效力的弗利仍然相信，他的政府会救他，他的家人说，他们从最近获释的人质那里了解到这一点。
By June, the cellblock that had once held at least 23 people had been reduced to just seven. Four of them were Americans, and three were British — all citizens of countries whose governments had refused to pay ransoms.
到了六月，曾至少关押了23人的囚室区只剩下7个人。其中4名是美国人，3名是英国人，都是政府拒绝支付赎金的国家的公民。
In an article recently published in an official Islamic State magazine, the jihadists described the American-led airstrikes that began in August as the nail in those hostages’ coffins.
最近发表在伊斯兰国一份官方杂志上的一篇文章中，圣战者把8月份开始的、美国领导的空袭描述为给那些人质的棺材钉上了钉子。
At the same time, they laid out the role European and American ransom policies had played in their decision to kill Mr. Foley.
同时，他们还解释了欧洲和美国的赎金政策在他们杀死弗利的决定上所起的作用。
“As the American government was dragging its feet, reluctant to save James’s life,” they wrote in the magazine, Dabiq, “negotiations were made by the governments of a number of European prisoners, which resulted in the release of a dozen of their prisoners after the demands of the Islamic State were met.”
他们在官方杂志Dabiq上写道，“随着美国政府一拖再拖，不愿拯救詹姆斯的生命，与几个欧洲政府就囚犯展开的谈判已有了结果，在伊斯兰国的要求得到满足后，十几名欧洲囚犯已被释放。”
Fifteen hostages were freed from March to June for ransoms averaging more than two million euros, the former captives and those close to them said.
前人质及熟悉他们的人说，有15名人质在三月到六月间被释放，为他们支付的赎金平均超过200万欧元。
Among the last to go was a Danish photojournalist, Daniel Rye Ottosen, 25, released in June after his family cobbled together a multimillion-euro ransom, three people briefed on the negotiation said. He was one of several departing hostages who managed to smuggle out letters from his cellmates.
最后获释的人中有一位是25岁的丹麦摄影记者丹尼尔·拉伊·奥托森(Daniel Rye Ottosen)，据三位了解谈判情况的人说，他的家人凑出几百万欧元的赎金之后，他在六月获释。他是在离开时把狱友的信偷偷带出来的人质之一。
“I am obviously pretty scared to die,” Mr. Kassig wrote in a letter recently published by his family. “The hardest part is not knowing — hoping, and wondering if I should even hope at all.”
“很明显，我害怕死去，”卡西格在他的家人最近公开的一封信中写道。“最难的是，不知道是否有生的希望，也不知道我是否应该有那种希望。”
Mr. Foley seemed to sense the end was near. In his letter, amid expressions of love, he slipped in a sentence instructing his family on how to disburse the money in his bank account.
弗利似乎感觉到末日即将来临。在他的信中，除了表达对家人的爱，他还留了一句话，指示家人如何处理自己银行账户里的钱。
In August, when the militants came for him, they made him slip on a pair of plastic sandals. They drove him to a bare hill outside Raqqa. They made him kneel. He looked straight into the camera, his expression defiant. Then they slit his throat.
今年八月，当武装分子冲着他来时，他们让他穿上一双塑料凉鞋。他们用车把他运到拉卡外一个裸露山丘。他们让他跪下。他面带不屈的表情，直视镜头。然后他们切开了他的喉咙。
Two weeks later, a similar video surfaced on YouTube showing Mr. Sotloff’s death. In September, the militants uploaded Mr. Haines’s execution. In October, they killed Mr. Henning. Only three from the original group of 23 remain: two Americans, Mr. Kassig and a woman who has not been identified, as well as a Briton, Mr. Cantlie.
两周后，一个类似的视频在YouTube上出现，上面记录了索特洛夫的死亡。9月，武装分子把处死海恩斯的录像上传到网上。10月，他们杀了亨宁。当初的23名人质中只剩下了三人：两名美国人：卡西格和一位尚未确定姓名的女子，再就是英国人坎特利。
The militants have announced they will kill Mr. Kassig next.
武装分子已经宣布，他们下一个要杀死的是卡西格。（11月16日，ISIS组织公布视频声称卡西格已经被斩首——编注）