The strongest proof that Svetlana Alliluyeva was Joseph Stalin’s daughter is that this small, demure-looking redhead scared people — and not just because her face and coloring so resembled her father’s.
斯维特拉娜·阿莉卢耶娃(Svetlana Alliluyeva)是约瑟夫·斯大林(Joseph Stalin)之女的最大证据，便是这个身材矮小、相貌端庄的红发女子同样令人畏惧——并不仅仅是因为她的相貌与发色同父亲非常相像。
She had some of his fevered intensity, which showed up even in one of their favorite games: Hostess, in which little Svetlana gave bossy orders, and Russia’s unopposed tyrant, in the role of her humble Secretary, pretended to grovel in response. When he wasn’t signing letters to her as “Your Little Papa,” the man who struck fear in many a Russian heart was calling himself, in 1935, “Svetanka-Hostess’s wretched Secretary, the poor peasant J. Stalin,” for his 9-year-old princess’s amusement.
他的某些狂热激情亦为她所拥有，这甚至体现在他们最心爱的游戏“女主人”中，在游戏里，小小的斯维特拉娜发号施令，而俄罗斯的独裁暴君则是她谦卑的秘书，假装对她毕恭毕敬。在给她的信末尾，他署名“你的小爸爸”，1935年，为了讨他9岁的小公主高兴，这个曾将恐惧植入无数俄国人心灵的男人自称“斯维坦卡女主人不幸的秘书与可怜的农民J·斯大林。”
But a lot of Stalin’s teasing had a tone of threat to it, too. Nikita S. Khrushchev once said of this father-daughter relationship that “his was the tenderness of a cat for a mouse.” And as Svetlana grew up and saw the fear that her father, and even she, aroused, she was too smart to mistake the fairy tales he told her for Russian reality. Looking backward, as the Canadian historian Rosemary Sullivan does clearly and evenhandedly in “Stalin’s Daughter,” it appears astounding that the girl who could have had the world’s worst daddy issues managed to grow up at all.
但斯大林的许多玩笑中都含有威胁意味。尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)曾说，在父女关系中，“他对女儿是猫对耗子的柔情。”斯维特拉娜长大后，开始发现父亲令人恐惧，甚至她自己也令人恐惧，她很聪明，不会相信他讲的那些童话就是俄罗斯的现实。正如加拿大历史学家罗斯玛丽·苏利文(Rosemary Sullivan)在《斯大林的女儿》(Stalin’s Daughter)一书中清晰而公正地指出的：回忆起来，这个女孩面临的可能是世界上最棘手的父女关系，她居然能够成长起来，真是令人惊讶。
The early part of this book is a tangle of fried and burned family relationships, all destroyed by Stalin as he rose to power. Though he was dependent on a large extended family during Svetlana’s earliest years, family portraits from that time must be captioned with the names of those he arrested, had shot or otherwise caused to disappear.
这本书的前半部分是复杂而焦灼的家庭关系，随着斯大林掌握权力，一切亲情都被毁灭。尽管他在斯维特拉娜小时候曾经依赖过这个大家族，但从那时起，家庭中就开始有人被他逮捕，抑或因为他的原因而失踪。
Most egregious and mysterious is the matter of the little girl’s mother, Nadezhda Alliluyeva, known as Nadya, who supposedly shot herself after a long, bitter evening of quarreling with her husband in front of many witnesses. The degree to which Svetlana was sheltered — she was 6 ½ at the time — was so extreme that she did not know of her mother’s possible suicide until years later.
最奇异、最神秘的还要算是这个小女孩的母亲娜季达·阿莉卢耶娃(Nadezhda Alliluyeva)，人们叫她娜迪娅，人们都认为她是和丈夫当众大吵一架之后，经过一个漫长、痛苦的夜晚，最终举枪自尽。当时斯维特拉娜只有六岁半，人们对她隐瞒了真相，数年后她才知道母亲可能死于自杀。
Ms. Sullivan fills this measured, informative biography with contrasting theories about such events, because there is no such thing as an uncomplicated death that involved Joseph Stalin. But it is not a highly opinionated book. It paints a strong but slightly distant portrait of the headstrong Svetlana, whose every brush with adversity seemed to make her tougher. She grew up to be so sexually charged that she became a danger to any man on whom she set her sights.
苏利文这部传记堪称字斟句酌、信息丰富，关于这些事情，它提供了各种互相对立的理论，因为和约瑟夫·斯大林相关的任何死亡事件都非常复杂。但这本书并不武断，它为性格顽强的斯维特拉娜描绘了一幅清晰但却稍微有些遥远的肖像，生活中的每一次灾难都令她变得更坚强。她在成长期间，身上充满性欲的能量，对于任何被她看中的男人来说，她都堪称危险。
When she had just turned 17, her romance with Aleksei Yakovlevich Kapler, a worldly Jewish cineaste, brought them some remarkable movie-watching moments (Garbo, in “Queen Christina”: “I have grown up in a great man’s shadow. I long to escape my destiny.”). It also brought Kapler five years in a labor camp — and another five after he stealthily visited Moscow, not looking for Svetlana but simply trying to see his wife.
17岁那年，她与阿历克塞·雅克夫莱维奇·卡普勒(Aleksei Yakovlevich Kapler)恋爱了，他是个世俗化的犹太人，是拍电影的，两人也有过一起看电影的难忘时刻——就像嘉宝在《克里斯蒂娜女王》(Queen Christina)中说的：“我在一个伟大男人的阴影之下成长，我渴望逃避自己的命运”。然而这段经历最终为卡普勒带来的是五年的劳改营时光，后来他偷偷回到莫斯科，不是为了找斯维特拉娜，而是为了看望自己的妻子，结果又被关了五年。
Still, Svetlana entered into three official marriages in Russia (one a purely political arrangement cooked up by her father) and one common-law union before the dying wish of the last man, Brajesh Singh, allowed her to leave the country. He was Indian-born, and he wanted his ashes scattered on the Ganges. Svetlana liked India and perhaps would have enjoyed staying there indefinitely, had she not sensed opportunity at the American Embassy in New Delhi. But the book grows ever more fascinating in explaining how her 1967 decision to defect made for a huge mess late in the Cold War and turned her into a political football.
斯维特拉娜在俄罗斯经历了三段正式婚姻（其中一次纯粹是她父亲的政治安排），还有一段民法上的结合，最后的一个男人叫布拉耶什·辛格(Brajesh Singh)，他在印度出生，希望自己的骨灰被洒在恒河中，这个遗愿令斯维特拉娜有机会离开祖国。斯维特拉娜喜欢印度，或许她考虑过无限期地居住在印度，但她在新德里的美国大使馆发现了去美国的机会。这本书解释了她1967年叛逃美国的决定，这场叛逃在冷战末期引发了极大的混乱，也把她变成了被人踢来踢去的政治皮球，这一部分内容非常精彩。
The way she wound up under the wing of the diplomat George F. Kennan, and managed to attract so many benefactors with homes in picturesque places, made her an extremely fortunate gypsy for her first experience of American life. So did the financial arrangements surrounding the publication of her first book, “Twenty Letters to a Friend.” Instantly rich, with money she could actually keep (as opposed to the People’s funds that supported the Stalins in Russia), she became a benefactor. And a whole new phase of her life began. By this point, she had severed all ties to her past, which included two Russian children who swore never again to have anything else to do with her.
外交家乔治·F·凯南(George F. Kennan)将她置于自己的保护之下，她也成功地吸引到了许多居住在风景如画之地的富有赞助者，因此她第一次来美国，就成了一个极度幸运的流浪者。她的第一本书《给一位朋友的二十封信》(Twenty Letters to a Friend)也为她带来了幸运的财富。突然之间，她成了富人，手头真的有了可支配的钱（在俄国，她得靠支持斯大林家族的人民基金为生），于是她当上了慈善家，新的人生阶段开始了。这段时期，她斩断了与过去的一切联系，包括在俄罗斯的两个孩子，他们发誓与她永久脱离关系。
Svetlana’s showdown at Taliesin West, the Arizona compound controlled by Frank Lloyd Wright’s dictatorlike widow, Olgivanna (and Svetlana knew a dictator when she met one), made for one more test of her resilience. Svetlana, who died in 2011, can be viewed as desperate, always in search of the man and home she never had, but that reduces her story to soap opera proportions. Or she can be seen as a woman from a highly eccentric gene pool who could feel both tyrannical and bereft, and who was constantly in motion throughout a long, unpredictable life.
斯维特拉娜在亚利桑那州的西塔利辛庄园(Taliesin West)的孤注一掷更加显示出她的坚韧。这处地产由弗兰克·洛伊德·怀特(Frank Lloyd Wright)暴君式的遗孀奥尔吉瓦娜(Olgivanna)拥有（斯维特拉娜一眼就能看出对方身上的暴君性格）。斯维特拉娜在2011年去世，在人们眼中，她可能显得非常绝望，总在追求心爱的男人与从未拥有过的家庭，但如果只关注这些，她的故事就成了肥皂剧。人们也可以觉得她是个继承了古怪基因的女人，身上结合了暴虐与慈爱的特质，在她漫长莫测的人生中一直处于高度亢奋的状态（这一段本文作者没有交代清楚的是：斯维特拉娜曾应奥尔吉瓦娜之邀请访问西塔利辛。奥尔吉瓦娜信仰邪教，她有一女亦名斯维特拉娜，年轻早逝，她认为斯大林之女是她女儿的替身，斯维特拉娜后与奥尔吉瓦娜之女的丈夫结婚，生有一女后离异——译注）。
After the Wright incident, during which she married a gold digger with Taliesin affiliations, she was not finished defecting. Read the rest of the book to learn how she ricocheted back to Russia, dealt with those abandoned children in addition to her brand-new baby, picked up stakes yet again and finally wound up at a compass point that made no sense, yet made all the sense in the world.
怀特事件期间，她与一个和塔利辛有关系的掘金者结了婚，她一生从未停止叛逃。这本书余下的部分讲了她有多么不想回俄罗斯、 她和被自己抛弃的两个孩子之间的关系、还有她后来又生的孩子。她曾一再铤而走险，最终又毫无意义地回到原点，但她的故事对这个世界是有意义的。
She never ceased to be Stalin’s daughter. People never stopped using variations on the “I can’t believe Stalin’s daughter is doing such-and-such” (like “mopping my floor”) construction when they spoke about her. But she turned small, demure, sometimes screaming and livid Svetlana into something more than a chip off the old block. This biography does justice to the part of her that was Svetlana’s alone: survivor, adventurer, petty tyrant instead of brutal one, truly charming “Hostess,” though she always wanted control. It’s an admiring portrait of an amazingly adaptable person facing all but insurmountable odds. She refused to let her lineage seal her fate.
人们从未忘记她是斯大林的女儿，提起她的时候，经常会用“我真不敢相信斯大林的女儿会干这个”（比如说“会拖我的地板”）这样的句式。但她最终从那个矮小、端庄，偶尔尖叫，脸色铁青的斯维特拉娜变成了和父亲完全不同的人。这本传记对她与斯大林无关的部分非常公正，把她塑造为一个幸存者、冒险家、并不残忍的小小暴君和有魅力的“女主人”，尽管她一直都有控制欲。这是一幅令人赞赏的肖像，描绘出一个在不可逾越的命运面前适应能力极强的女人。她没有让血统决定自己的人生。