In “Under the Skin,” a mysterious woman drives a van down the streets and byways of Scotland, picking up men. Her friendly manner seems a little off, her intentions murky. Evidence points to her being someone, or something, otherworldly. But from the disorienting rush of the film’s opening montage climaxing with a close-up on an eye, the only clear fact is that we’re in for a strange trip.
在《皮囊之下》(Under the Skin)中，一个神秘女子开着货车沿着苏格兰的大街小巷漫游，勾引男人。她亲切的举止似乎和她阴暗的动机不太相符。有迹象表明，她是来自异界的某人或某物。影片开头的蒙太奇以一只眼睛的特写作为高潮，它快速而令人迷惑，其中唯一清楚的事实就是：我们要开始一场奇特的旅行了。
Jonathan Glazer’s new film, which opens April 4, sticks relentlessly to this strange driver without offering explicit explanations. That stubborn ambiguity and the arresting visuals help place “Under the Skin” not among standard thrillers about predatory extraterrestrials, but rather in the realm of visionary science fiction. Instead of satisfying our curiosity about what might happen, it’s about creating a transfixing enigma.
乔纳森·格莱泽(Jonathan Glazer)的这部新片于4月4日上映，镜头不屈不挠地跟随这位奇怪的司机，却没有给出明确的解释。这种固执的暧昧和吸引人的画面使《皮囊之下》不属于关于猎食性外星人的标准惊悚片，而可以归入预言科幻片的范畴。它不是为了满足我们对即将发生的事的好奇心，而是创造了一个吸引人的谜。
Science fiction has, of course, been presenting visually dazzling conundrums for moviegoers for some time. Georges Méliès’s “A Trip to the Moon” occupies pride of place in the silent cinema canon, and later landmarks include Fritz Lang’s “Metropolis” and the atomic-era “Destination Moon.” But “Under the Skin” joins a certain tradition of science fiction as head trip pioneered in 1968 by Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey.”
当然，科幻片给观众展示画面绚丽的谜题已经有一段时间了。乔治斯·梅列斯(Georges Méliès)的《月球旅行记》(A Trip to the Moon)在默片时代占据首要地位，后来的标志性影片包括弗里茨·朗(Fritz Lang)的《大都市》(Metropolis)和原子能时代的《登陆月球》(Destination Moon)。但是《皮囊之下》属于那种和心理探索有关的科幻片，这类影片的先驱是1968年斯坦利·库布里克(Stanley Kubrick)导演的《2001太空漫游》(2001: A Space Odyssey)。
Mr. Glazer’s film makes reference to “2001” with its opening warp-speed blizzard of colors and cosmic close-up. A pared-down adaptation of a novel by Michel Faber, the movie limits our view to the encounters and experiences of its protagonist (played by Scarlett Johansson in a wig). But the film retains its mysteries even when the driver selects her victims: Each hapless male is led into a black void in eerie sequences scored to electronic music. It’s a work that Bernardo Rondeau, curator of “Beyond the Infinite: Science Fiction After Kubrick,” a film series that played at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art last year, views as “fitting completely into the lineage” of visionary cinema.
格莱泽的电影借鉴了《2001太空漫游》，开头便是飞快的色彩风暴和宇宙的特写。该片是对米歇尔·法贝尔(Michel Faber)一本小说的缩写改编，把我们的视野局限在主人公（斯嘉丽·约翰逊[Scarlett Johansson]饰，她头戴假发）的遭遇和经历上。即使在这个司机选择受害者时，影片仍保持着神秘感：每个倒霉的男人在可怕的连续镜头中，伴随着电子音乐，进入一片黑色的虚无。伯纳多·龙多(Bernardo Rondeau)认为这部电影“完全符合”科幻片的“血统”。龙多是“超越无限：库布里克之后的科幻片”(Beyond the Infinite: Science Fiction After Kubrick)的策展人，该展览去年在洛杉矶县艺术博物馆举办，展示了一系列影片。
“Kubrick made available some of the traits that had been explored in art films that had preceded ‘2001,’ ” said Mr. Rondeau, the director of programming at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. “He allowed for there to be a level of ambiguity about things and to have pure cinema, the imagery and music, move the narrative.”
“库布里克在《2001太空漫游》中融入了之前艺术片的一些特征，”龙多说。他是美国电影艺术与科学学院的节目规划主管。“他允许影片具有一定程度的暧昧不清，让纯粹的电影——也就是片中的图像和音乐——来推动叙事。”
Among the ambitious successors to “2001” was “Solaris,” the 1972 film by the great Russian auteur Andrei Tarkovsky. Presented as a kind of response to Kubrick’s work, Tarkovsky’s psychologically enigmatic adaptation of a Stanislaw Lem novel is set on a space station orbiting a planet that seems to possess a form of consciousness. And in a more trippily eccentric vein, John Boorman’s hyperlucid nightmare “Zardoz” (1974) depicted a postapocalyptic Earth kept in the Dark Ages by a leader who manifests as a floating stone head.
《2001太空漫游》雄心勃勃的后继者包括1972年上映的伟大的俄罗斯导演安德烈·塔尔科夫斯基(Andrei Tarkovsky)导演的《飞向太空》(Solaris)。塔尔科夫斯基的这部心理悬疑影片像是对库布里克作品的一种回应，它改编自斯泰尼斯洛·莱姆(Stanislaw Lem)的一本小说，故事发生在一个太空站里，这个太空站围绕一颗似乎具有某种形式的意识的行星运行。约翰·布尔曼(John Boorman)的影片《萨杜斯》(Zardoz, 1974)如同一个超级清晰的梦魇，具有更加梦幻的怪异气质，描绘了后末日时代的地球，它被一个统治者困在黑暗时代，这个统治者的形象是一个漂浮的石头脑袋。
For Mr. Glazer, the challenge in filming something new and strange lay not only in what we were seeing, but in how the story was told.
在格莱泽看来，拍摄新奇影片的挑战不在于我们看到了什么，而在于故事是如何被讲述的 。
“You’re committing to this alien perspective and experiencing the world through that very particular lens,” Mr. Glazer, who’s been working on the film since 2002, said by phone from London. “You can’t rely on genre, or the conventions of storytelling, or the way exposition is used to propel a story forward. The film needs to stand apart, to stand alone.” (His last feature was “Birth,” from 2004.)
“你完全是透过这个外星人的视角，透过这个非常特殊的镜头来体验这个世界，”格莱泽在伦敦接受电话采访时说。他从2002年开始从事电影制作。“你不能依靠类型电影，也不能依靠故事叙述的惯例或者推动故事发展的阐述方式。这部电影需要特立独行。”（他的上一部影片是2004年的《重生》[Birth]。）
A more direct forebear to “Under the Skin” might be Nicolas Roeg’s “The Man Who Fell to Earth.” In that 1976 fable of modernity, a wraithlike David Bowie stars as a humanoid alien grappling with human civilization even as he rises to a position of wealth. Its visionary aspect comes from Mr. Roeg’s typically hypnotic filmmaking and the utter foreignness of Mr. Bowie’s character.
《皮囊之下》更直接的前辈可能是尼古拉斯·罗伊格(Nicolas Roeg)的《天降财神》(The Man Who Fell to Earth)。在那个1976年的现代寓言故事中，幽灵般的大卫·鲍伊(David Bowie)扮演一个类人外星人，他即使在巨富之后仍在努力适应人类文明。它的虚幻之感来自于罗伊格典型的催眠式拍摄手法以及鲍伊扮演的人物完全的外星人特性。
The journeys of Ms. Johansson’s stranger in a strange land are evocatively split between Glasgow streets, the glorious coastline and the black-void sequences. “What immediately struck me as interesting was to have this entity set loose in the coarse reality of Scotland and how those forces would come into play,” Walter Campbell, whose collaborations with Mr. Glazer include the new film’s screenplay and previous work, said from London.
约翰逊扮演的异乡异客的旅程被格拉斯哥的街道、美妙的海岸线和黑色空间连续镜头分开。“很快引起我的兴趣的是把这个人物松散地置于苏格兰粗糙的现实环境中以及这些因素将如何开始起作用，”沃尔特·坎贝尔(Walter Campbell)在伦敦接受电话采访时说。他与格拉泽的合作包括这部新片的剧本和之前的工作。
Ms. Johansson drove the van herself, filmed for hours on end as her unnamed character looks for prospects and chats up actual Scottish passers-by in some scenes. That documentary aspect, recorded through hidden cameras and coordinated by a crew in the back of the van, pushes science-fiction frontiers by lending these familiar settings a through-the-looking-glass curiosity.
约翰逊亲自开车，连续拍摄数小时，她扮演的没有名字的人物寻找潜在的猎物，在某些场景中与真正的苏格兰路人搭讪。这种纪录片式的拍摄手法——通过隐藏的摄像机以及货车后部的工作人员的配合——推进了科幻片的前沿，让这些熟悉的背景具有一种透过镜子观看的神秘感。
With Ms. Johansson acting in character with her unwitting foils, Mr. Glazer saw a parallel between her performance and the film’s story of an alien going undercover.
约翰逊用观众不知道的伪装扮演这个角色，而这部电影讲述的是伪装下的外星人的故事，格莱泽指出了她的表演和这个故事之间的类似之处。
“The idea of using these surveillance cameras and shooting the world as it is has the power of something very illicit and incongruous,” Mr. Glazer said. “The story of Scarlett playing an alien character on the streets of Glasgow, shot with hidden cameras, is kind of an equivalent to this idea of an alien on Earth. The method and the narrative almost become the same thing.”
“用监控摄像机拍摄这个世界，具有非常不正当、不和谐的力量，”格莱泽说，“用隐蔽摄像机拍摄斯嘉丽在格拉斯哥的大街上扮演外星人，有点像地球上的外星人看这个世界的感觉。拍摄手法和故事几乎合二为一。”
The use of innovative techniques to express science fiction’s mind-bending scenarios predates “2001” and its psychedelic-ready visuals. Chris Marker’s 1962 masterpiece “La Jetée” is assembled almost entirely from black-and-white stills that deepen its time-travel premise. The techniques in “Under the Skin” are likewise intended better to portray what is genuinely unknown, or as Lem described “Solaris,” to create “a vision of a human encounter with something that certainly exists, in a mighty manner perhaps, but cannot be reduced to human concepts, ideas or images.”
用革新技术表现科幻片令人费解的场景在《2001太空漫游》和它具有迷幻效果的画面之前就已经存在了。克里斯·马克(Chris Marker)1962年的杰作《堤》(La Jetée)几乎完全是用黑白剧照拼接起来的，强化了时空旅行的假设。《皮囊之下》所用的技术也同样是为了更好地表现那些真的不为人所知的东西，或者就像莱姆对《飞向太空》的描述，它是为了创造“人类遇到某种肯定存在、可能无比强大、但是无法用人类的概念、想法或图像来解释的东西的情景”。