Eight years ago, on Nov. 28, 2006, the Ukrainian Parliament officially designated the famine of 1931-33, which killed 5 to 7 million Soviets during Stalin’s rule, a genocide. On Saturday, Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, accompanied by other officials and by his wife, laid a jar of seeds of grain near the Dnieper River in Kiev to mark the anniversary.
八年前，2006年11月28日，乌克兰议会把1931至1933年的饥荒正式认定为大屠杀；那次饥荒发生在斯大林的统治时期，导致500到700万苏联人丧生。上周六，乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O.Poroshenko)在妻子和其他官员的陪同下，在基辅第聂伯河附近洒下了一罐谷物种子，以示纪念。
Stalin’s rule is rightly associated with two of the most horrific episodes in Ukraine’s history: the famine and the 1937-38 mass executions of Ukrainian intellectuals and political figures, both of which took place across the Soviet Union. Both tragedies have been invoked regularly in the months since Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, seized Crimea and sent forces into eastern Ukraine.
斯大林的统治确实和乌克兰历史上最恐怖的两个事件有关：那次饥荒，以及乌克兰知识分子和政治人士在1937到1938年间遭到大规模处决，这两件事也发生在苏联其他地方。自从俄罗斯总统普京吞并克里米亚，并派兵进入乌克兰东部的这几个月来，人们常常提及这两起悲剧。
But there is an underappreciated aspect to this tangled history: Stalin’s rule saw the formation of a land with strong Ukrainian national consciousness. Yes, he was a murderous tyrant, but he was also a father of today’s Ukraine.
但在这段历史纠葛中，有一个方面没有得到充分的重视：在斯大林统治期间，一个具有强烈乌克兰民族意识的地方形成了。诚然，他是一个杀人不眨眼的暴君，但他也是今日乌克兰之父。
Ukraine emerged out of czarist Russia as a separate country as a result of World War I, the revolutions of 1917, German military occupation and the efforts of Ukrainian nationalists. Against the wishes of other early Soviet officials, who wanted to suppress nationalism, Stalin strongly advocated recognizing — and using — it. “Clearly, the Ukrainian nation exists and the development of its culture is a duty of Communists,” Stalin told the 10th Party Congress in March 1921. “One cannot go against history.”
乌克兰脱离沙皇俄国，成为了一个独立的国家，这是第一次世界大战、1917年革命、德国的军事占领，以及乌克兰民族主义者努力的结果。其他早期苏维埃的官员想要压制民族主义，斯大林却罔顾他们的愿望，极力主张承认——并利用——民族主义。“显然，乌克兰民族的存在及其文化的发展，是共产党人的责任，”斯大林1921年3月的10届共产党代表大会上说：“我们不能逆历史而行。”
Stalin knew from his Georgian homeland that national sentiment was too strong to suppress. He also knew that the Communists could use it to win loyalty and achieve economic modernization.
斯大林从故乡格鲁吉亚的经历中知道，强烈的民族情绪是无法压制的。他也知道，共产党人可以用它来赢得忠诚，实现经济现代化。
Ukraine had remained effectively independent even after being reconquered by the Bolsheviks in the Russian Civil War of 1918-1921 and rechristened the Soviet Socialist Republic of Ukraine. Through late 1921, Soviet Ukraine signed a plethora of state-to-state treaties — with newly independent Poland, Austria, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia — and maintained diplomatic missions abroad. Ukraine had a diplomatic office in Moscow, too. At the 10th Party Congress, Stalin argued for an integrated Soviet state. But the form of that integrated state would carry fateful consequences.
乌克兰一直保持基本独立，即使布尔什维克在1918年到1921年的俄国内战中再次征服它，将其更名为乌克兰苏维埃社会主义共和国之后，也是如此。到1921年年底，苏维埃乌克兰与新独立的波兰、奥地利、立陶宛、拉脱维亚、爱沙尼亚，签署了很多国家条约。乌克兰仍然保留着驻外外交使团，乌克兰还有一处驻莫斯科的外交办公室。在10届共产党代表大会上，斯大林主张缔造一个一体化的苏维埃国家。但那个国家的形成，将会决定很多事情的前途命运。
In 1922, Stalin proposed folding Ukraine, Byelorussia and the Caucasus into Soviet Russia (formally known as the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic) while allowing them to retain substantial autonomy, a proposal that initially elicited Lenin’s support. But Lenin soon changed his mind, and demanded a Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in which Ukraine and Russia would hold ostensibly equal status.
1922年，斯大林提出把乌克兰、白俄罗斯和高加索地区并入苏维埃俄罗斯（正式名称为俄罗斯苏维埃联邦社会主义共和国），同时允许它们保留高度自治，这个建议最初得到了列宁的首肯。但列宁很快就改变了主意，要求建立苏维埃社会主义共和国联盟，在这个联盟中，乌克兰和俄罗斯将拥有名义上的平等地位。
Lenin’s counterproposal was based not on a commitment to self-rule but, like Stalin, on tactics. He argued that as other countries underwent socialist revolutions — a Soviet Germany, a Soviet Hungary, a Soviet Finland — they, too, could join the new Soviet Union. Stalin was not so naïve. “These peoples would scarcely agree to enter straight into a federative bond with Soviet Russia” on the Ukrainian model, he told Lenin. Lenin scorned Stalin’s realism, insisting that “we need a centralized world economy, run from a single organ.”
和斯大林一样，列宁的这个提议，并非本着信守自治承诺而做出，而是有战术考虑。列宁认为，随着其他国家进行社会主义革命——苏维埃德国、苏维埃匈牙利、苏维埃芬兰，它们也可以加入新的苏联。斯大林没有那么天真。“这些人不会轻易同意采取乌克兰那样的模式，与苏维埃俄罗斯建立联邦制关系，”他告诉列宁。但列宁鄙视斯大林的现实主义，坚持认为：“我们需要一个集中的世界经济，由一个单一的机构来管理。”
Stalin bowed to Lenin’s authority, and loyally and skillfully implemented the Bolshevik leader’s vision to form the Soviet Union in late 1922. Lenin’s vision amounted to an overconfident bet on world revolution. Stalin also believed in world revolution, but his proposal — annexation into Russia — would have been a hedge on that bet.
斯大林服从了列宁的权威，忠诚而巧妙地实现了这位布尔什维克领导人的愿景，苏联在1922年底形成。列宁的愿景是个赌注，他对世界革命的成功过于自信了。斯大林也相信世界革命，但他的建议——并入俄罗斯——本来会减少这个赌注的风险。
In 1991, of course, the Soviet Union dissolved. Ukraine, having avoided absorption into Russia thanks to Lenin, became independent. But the new nation encompassed as much land as it did thanks to Stalin.
结果当然是苏联在1991年的解体。多亏了列宁，乌克兰没有被俄罗斯吞并，成为一个独立国家。但这个新国家之所以能拥有这么大片的国土，这要感谢斯大林。
When it was first formed, Soviet Ukraine had no natural border in the east with Soviet Russia. The demarcation disappointed all sides — and it is the site of today’s separatist rebellion. In the west, as a result of his 1939 pact with Hitler, Stalin seized eastern Poland and joined it to Ukraine. The city today known as Lviv was then a largely Polish- and Yiddish-speaking community, surrounded by a Ukrainian-speaking countryside; under Stalin and his successors the city would become predominantly Ukrainian-speaking — and the center of western Ukrainian nationalism.
苏维埃乌克兰最初形成的时候，与苏维埃俄罗斯的东部之间没有天然边界。边界的划分让各方都感到失望——而且那也就是眼下发生分裂叛乱的地方。在西面，作为1939年与希特勒之间协议的结果，斯大林获得了波兰的东部，并把其纳入了乌克兰版图。如今被称为利沃夫的城市，当时是以波兰语和意第绪语为主的社区，它周围的乡村讲的是乌克兰语；在斯大林及其继任者执政期间，它成了一个以乌克兰语为主的城市——成了乌克兰西部民族主义的中心。
With the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945, Stalin annexed Transcarpathia, formerly part of Czechoslovakia, and now the southwest corner of Ukraine. Finally, Crimea, at the time a predominantly ethnic Russian territory, was transferred to Ukraine from Russia in a decision taken under Stalin but implemented only after he had died, in 1954, on the 300th anniversary of the Cossack request for imperial Russia’s protection against the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth.
纳粹德国在1945年战败后，斯大林吞并了外喀尔巴千(Transcarpathia)，原捷克斯洛伐克的一部分，目前在乌克兰的西南角。最后，当时以俄罗斯人为主的克里米亚也被划归给了乌克兰，这个决定是在斯大林统治期间做出的，但正式施行是他死之后的1954年，当时正是哥萨克为抵御波兰立陶宛联邦向俄罗斯帝国寻求保护的300周年纪念。
Except for Crimea, today’s nationalist Ukraine is a bequeathal of Stalin. It’s true that he executed countless officials of Ukrainian (and every other) ethnicity. But as the Soviet state expanded, he promoted still more Ukrainians to take their places. Even when he belatedly made study of Russian language a requirement in all Soviet schools, he did not discontinue instruction in national vernacular languages.
除克里米亚之外，如今民族主义盛行的乌克兰其实是斯大林的遗赠。没错，他处决了乌克兰族（以及其他民族）的无数官员。但随着苏维埃国家扩张，他仍然提拔了更多乌克兰人来取代他们的位置。甚至当他最后规定俄语是苏维埃所有学校的必修课的时候，也没有阻止各国用本地语言教学。
Of course, in helping to enlarge and consolidate Soviet Ukraine, Stalin never imagined that the Soviet Union would someday disappear. And so Mr. Putin faces a formidable obstacle.
当然，在帮助苏维埃乌克兰扩张和巩固的时候，斯大林也没想到，苏联有一天会消失。所以普京现在就面对着一个天大的难题。
He is said by diplomats to have told President George W. Bush, at a NATO summit meeting in Bucharest, Romania, in 2008 that “Ukraine is not even a state.” And in claiming territory from Ukraine, Mr. Putin has cited Catherine the Great’s Black Sea conquests and creation of “New Russia” in the late 18th century. But Mr. Putin cannot escape more recent history.
有外交官说，在2008年，普京在罗马尼亚布加勒斯特一个北约峰会上，对当时的美国总统的乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)说，“乌克兰甚至算不上一个国家。”而在占据乌克兰的国土时，普京提到了叶卡捷琳娜大帝在18世纪后期征服黑海，缔造“新俄罗斯”的事迹。不过，普京无法避开近现代的历史。