WASHINGTON — What sort of person would Justice Antonin Scalia have wanted President Barack Obama to name as his successor? We know more than you might think.
华盛顿——安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)大法官会希望奥巴马总统提名什么样的人作为自己的接班人呢？我们知道的比你可能认为的要多。
In a largely overlooked passage in his dissent from the court's decision in June establishing a constitutional right to same-sex marriage, he left detailed suggestions.
在最高法院去年6月把同性婚姻确定为宪法赋予的一种权利的裁决中，斯卡利亚在异议部分的一个没有引起多大注意的段落里，留下了详细的建议。
Avoid “tall-building lawyers,” especially ones who work in skyscrapers in New York. Find someone who did not go to law school at Harvard or Yale. Look for a candidate from the Southwest. Consider an evangelical Christian.
尽量避开“高楼大厦律师”，尤其是那些在纽约的摩天大楼里工作的律师。从不是哈佛大学法学院或耶鲁大学法学院毕业的人中找。从美国西南地区找候选人。考虑一位福音派基督徒。
Scalia was criticizing the lack of diversity of the court he sat on, and he did not exclude himself. He was right as a factual matter: Supreme Court justices these days are by many measures remarkably similar, giving the court the insular quality of a private club or a faculty lounge.
斯卡利亚是在批评他所在的最高法院缺少多样性，他并未把自己排除在外。从事实来看，他是对的：最高法院近年来的大法官们在许多方面都非常相似，这让最高法院具有私人俱乐部或教授休息室的那种与世隔绝的特征。
The same-sex marriage decision, he said, underscored the obligation of the president to diversify the Supreme Court.
斯卡利亚说，同性婚姻的裁决，凸显了总统有责任让最高法院具有多样性。
“To allow the policy question of same-sex marriage to be considered and resolved by a select, patrician, highly unrepresentative panel of nine,” Scalia wrote, “is to violate a principle even more fundamental than no taxation without representation: no social transformation without representation.”
斯卡利亚写道，“让同性婚姻的政策问题由一个精选的、上流的、非常不具代表性的九人小组来考虑并解决，违背了一条比无代表则无税的原则还要基本的原则，那就是：无代表则无社会转型。”
To be sure, the court is by some standards reasonably diverse. For the first time it has three women, one of whom is Hispanic. It has an African-American member, only the second in its history.
诚然，最高法院按某种标准来看已经相当多样化。它首次拥有三名女性大法官，其中一名是西语裔。它还用有一名非洲裔成员，这在其历史上仅是第二次。
On the other hand, Scalia wrote, the court “consists of only nine men and women, all of them successful lawyers who studied at Harvard or Yale Law School.” Scalia attended Harvard, as did five other current members of the court. The other three went to Yale.
而从另一个方面来看，斯卡利亚写道，最高法院“仅有的九名男女大法官，都是曾经就读于哈佛或耶鲁法学院的成功律师”。斯卡利亚读的是哈佛，与最高法院的五名现任成员一样。而其他三名大法官读的是耶鲁。
There is one asterisk, Justice Elena Kagan joked in 2012. “Justice Ginsburg spent one year at Columbia,” said Kagan, a former dean of Harvard Law School. “You know, slumming it.” (Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg spent two years at Harvard Law School but then moved to New York with her husband and earned her law degree from Columbia.)
有个小小的注释，大法官艾蕾娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)在2012年曾经开玩笑说。“金斯伯格大法官(Justice Ginsburg)在哥伦比亚读过一年，”哈佛大学法学院前院长卡根说。“你知道吧，够寒酸的。”（金斯伯格大法官在哈佛大学法学院读了两年之后，随丈夫搬到纽约，从哥伦比亚大学法学院获得法律学位。）
Since Justice John Paul Stevens retired in 2010, the court, for the first time, has no Protestant member. Scalia was Catholic, as are five other justices on the current court. The other three are Jewish.
自大法官约翰·保罗·史蒂文斯(John Paul Stevens)于2010年退休以后，最高法院首次没有了信奉新教的成员。斯卡利亚是天主教徒，与最高法院五名现任大法官一样。其他三名大法官是犹太人。
In general, Scalia seemed suspicious of elite legal opinion, suggesting that it reliably espoused liberal orthodoxies. “The predominant attitude of tall-building lawyers with respect to the questions presented in these cases,” he wrote, referring to the same-sex marriage cases before the court, “is suggested by the fact that the American Bar Association deemed it in accord with the wishes of its members to file a brief in support of the petitioners.”
总的来说，斯卡利亚似乎对精英法律意见持怀疑态度，认为那些意见可靠地反映了自由派正统观念。针对最高法院考虑的同性婚姻案子，他写道，“高楼大厦律师对这些案子所涉及问题的最显著态度在一个事实上有所暗示，即美国律师协会认为，递交一份支持恳求者的摘要符合其成员的意愿。
There are other ways in which the current court may be out of touch with ordinary lawyers, to say nothing of ordinary Americans.
在其他方面，目前的最高法院可能也不了解普通律师，更不要说普通美国人了。
Three of the current justices are former Supreme Court law clerks. Only one has served as a trial judge, and none has served on a state court. Not one has run for public office.
现任大法官中有三位曾在最高法院担任法律助理。只有一位担任过主审法官，没有一位曾在州法院任职。没有一位参加过公职竞选。
All of the justices but one are former federal appeals court judges. With one exception, those eight served on what might be called the court of appeals for the Acela Circuit, in Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Washington.
除一名大法官外，所有大法官都曾担任联邦上诉法院法官。这八名大法官都曾在也许可被称为Acela巡回法院（Acela是下列城市之间的快速铁路服务，译注）的波士顿、纽约、费城和华盛顿的上诉法院工作，只有一个例外。
Scalia wrote in the June dissent that he wished various kinds of diversity did not matter in judicial appointments. “Judges are selected precisely for their skill as lawyers; whether they reflect the policy views of a particular constituency is not (or should not be) relevant,” he wrote.
斯卡利亚在去年6月的异议中写道，他的愿望是各种各样的多样性对司法任命并不重要。“法官的挑选恰恰是因为他们作为律师的技能；他们是否反映特定选民的政策观点不（或不应该）相关，”他写道。
But he added that a court capable of finding a right to same-sex marriage in the Constitution was doing something other than using legal skill to interpret legal materials, meaning presidents should consider factors other than legal acumen.
但是，他补充说，一个能够在宪法中找到同性婚姻权利的法院，是在做使用法律技能来解释法律材料之外的事情，他的意思是，总统应该考虑除法律能力之外的因素。
“The strikingly unrepresentative character of the body voting on today's social upheaval would be irrelevant if they were functioning as judges, answering the legal question whether the American people had ever ratified a constitutional provision that was understood to proscribe the traditional definition of marriage,” he wrote.
“对现今社会动荡问题做出裁决的最高法院的显著不具代表性的特征将会无关紧要，如果投票者们在以法官的方式工作，在回答一个法律问题，那就是美国人民是否曾经批准过一条宪法规定，该规定可以被理解为禁止了婚姻的传统定义，”他写道。