In an ideal world, a master class available to everyone would reveal all the secrets to retirement planning, telling you how much to save, where to invest and what to do when the stock market crashes.
在理想的世界里，所有人都能读的大师课将揭示退休规划的所有秘密：告诉你该存多少钱，投资哪里，当股市崩盘的时候该怎么办，等等。
After all, there are few entirely conflict-free places where investors can educate themselves on the topic, and there’s little to no money-related guidance offered within the public school system, which is where the financial groundwork should really be laid.
毕竟，很少会有完全不存在利益冲突的地方，可供投资者自学这一课题，而且公立学校系统几乎不提供与金钱相关的指导，虽然公立学校正是应该给学生打理财基础的地方。
Joshua Rauh, a finance professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, is acutely aware of that. And it’s why he felt compelled to open his graduate-level course on the finance of retirement and pensions to the masses. “My goal is to try to empower people to make better decisions about their finances with an eye toward retirement and for retirees who are thinking about managing their money,” Professor Rauh said, “whether it is buying an annuity or having a spending rule.”
斯坦福商学院(Stanford Graduate School of Business)金融学教授约书亚·劳尤(Joshua Rauh)对此有十分清醒的认识。这就是为什么他觉得迫切需要向大众开设关于退休理财以及养老金的研究生水平课程。“我的目标是，努力帮助着眼于退休以及考虑自己理财的退休人员有能力为自己的财务做更好的决定，”劳尤教授说，“无论是在购买年金或是制定开支规则的时候。”
The course, which is offered free online, begins on Monday. I sat for nearly half of his online video lectures — on topics like “saving for retirement” and “making smart decisions as a stock market investor” — earlier this week. Watching remotely means you won’t be party to the discussion that will emerge from the Socratic method Professor Rauh uses in his traditional classroom on campus. And there are already 13,000 students, so it’s hard to expect any personal attention.
本课程从周一开始，可在网上免费观看。这周早些时候，我观看了他将近一半的网络视频课程，话题包括“为退休存钱”和“像股市投资者一样做精明的决定”等。在传统的学校课堂里劳教授使用的是苏格拉底教学法，远程观看视频意味着你无法参与教学中发生的讨论。而且已经有1.3万名学生参与课程，要想得到任何个人关注就非常困难了。
But there’s plenty that students will take away from his lessons, which you can watch anytime after the lecture is released, much as you might watch any series on your DVR. “A person that would really benefit is someone who is 40 and realizing they really need to start putting together a plan for retirement and haven’t thought much about it,” he said, though he says he believes that it will be equally helpful for people of all ages.
尽管如此，学生们仍能从他的课程中学到很多。在课程发布以后，你可以随时观看，这与观看数字视频录像机上的内容很像。虽然劳尤说他认为本课程适用于所有年龄段的人，但他也说，“真正能从中受益的是已经意识到自己确实应该开始为退休做一份计划，但还没有进行仔细考虑的40岁左右的人。”
There aren’t many other places to turn, particularly where it costs nothing but your time. When I informally polled financial literacy advocates, financial planners and other experts if they knew of any other comprehensive retirement courses, they couldn’t come up with any, though one person mentioned the instructional videos at Khan Academy. (If you know of any classes, please share them in the comments section online).
可供观看的其他类似课程并不多，特别是不花钱只花时间的课。在和金融教育倡导者、理财规划师以及其他专家交谈时，我会询问他们是否知道其他综合性的退休课程，但他们一个都想不出来，只有一个人提到了可汗学院(Khan Academy)的教学视频。（如果读者知道任何相关课程，请在在线评论栏里分享。）
Without any instruction manual, “people have to be their own chief financial officer,” said Annamaria Lusardi, a financial literacy advocate and economics professor at the George Washington University School of Business, who teaches a class on personal finance. “The large majority of the population lacks the knowledge of basic but fundamental concepts, from the power of interest compounding, to the effects of inflation, to the workings of risk diversification.”
在没有任何说明指南的情况下，“人们不得不当自己的财务总监，”理财知识倡导者、乔治华盛顿商学院(George Washington University School of Business)经济学教授兼个人理财课程教师安娜玛利亚·卢莎蒂(Annamaria Lusardi)说，“从复利的力量到通胀的影响，到风险分散的作用，大多数人不了解这些基础、根本的概念。”
This course may be a good place to start. Each of the 10 video lectures are about 45 minutes long, but they’re broken into bite-size segments, all of which were well produced and relatively engaging. As Professor Rauh explains each concept, animated visuals and colorful graphs appear alongside him, which helps make the concepts easier to grasp.
劳尤的这个课程可能是一个良好的开始。10堂视频课每节时长约45分钟，但都分解为小段内容、制作精良且较为生动。在劳教授解释每个概念时，栩栩如生的图像和丰富多彩的图解都会随之出现，使观看视频的学生更易理解。
Each lecture includes a mix of financial theory and prescriptive advice, some of which people with a reasonable base of investment knowledge may already know: actively managed mutual funds aren’t worth the money, so buy index funds. Don’t time the market. Stocks don’t become less risky the longer you hold them.
每堂课都包括财务理论和针对性建议，对于其中一些内容，有较好投资基础知识的人已经了解，例如：积极管理型的共同基金不值得投资，因此要买指数基金；不要揣摩市场时机；风险不会随着持有股票的时间变久而降低。
But the illustrations that accompany the advice — how retiring in 2009, for instance, would have resulted in a nest egg 28 percent smaller than one resulting by retiring in 2012 — are instructive. “It’s not a rocket science idea, but people don’t see it without having it illustrated for them,” Professor Rauh said.
但在建议中提供的实例非常有启发性，比如一个人在2009年退休怎么会导致自己的储备金比2012年退休减小28%这样的例子。“这并不是一个复杂的科学概念，但如果不举例说明的话，人们就看不出来，”劳尤说。
All of the lessons are rooted in what he calls “the economist’s view” of personal finance, which is built on the idea that there are no free lunches in financial markets, and that you can generate potentially higher returns only if you take substantial risk as well. It’s a message woven through his lectures. At times, it almost seems as if there should be a red blinking sign behind Professor Rauh that reads, “Proceed with caution. Stocks ahead!”
所有这些课程都扎根于他称为关于个人财理财的“经济学家的观点”，观点的基础是金融市场没有免费的午餐，以及只有承担重大风险，才可能获得更高回报。这样的观点贯穿在他的课程中。有时候，似乎应该在劳尤教授背后放一个红色眨眼的标记，写着“前有股票，小心谨慎！”
He clearly wants the lesson to linger long after you leave his virtual classroom and find yourself in a commission-based stockbroker’s office. “Too often, people just budget on the basis of an ‘expected return’ on their assets without thinking about the range of possible outcomes,” he explained.
毫无疑问，他希望在学生离开虚拟教室，坐在收取佣金的股票经纪人办公室时，还记得课堂上学到的东西。“大多数情况下，人们只以资产的预期回报为基础做预算，却不考虑可能结果的范围，”他解释说。
He also explains why economists also believe that more people — not all, but more — should buy annuities. Not the high-priced complex contraptions sold to unwitting seniors, but the plain-vanilla immediate annuities, where you pay a giant pile of cash to an insurance company in exchange for a guaranteed stream of income for life.
他也解释为什么经济学家们也认为更多人（不是所有人）应该买年金。那些卖给不知情的老年人的、昂贵复杂的年金不要买，而是要买普通的即期年金——先把大量的现金付给保险公司，以后它会终身提供有保障的收入。
He breaks all of this down in a lecture about making your money last, which offers the kind of practical advice that will be of particular interest to people in their late 50s and older who are wondering why annuities feel so expensive: as he points out, for $100,000, a 65-year-old woman can expect to receive about $450 a month. But he also explains another alternative that is about a tenth of the cost, known as longevity insurance. (You buy this annuity in advance and it begins paying income a decade or two later, when you’re in your 80s and may have spent all of your other savings). In the same lesson, you’ll be expected to sit through perhaps more than you may want to know about the inner workings of the mortality tables used to price annuities.
在一堂怎样让钱用得久一点的课程中，他把所有这些理念分解，提供的实用性建议将引起那些不明白为什么年金那么贵的50多岁或更加年长者的兴趣：正如他所指出的那样，如果支出10万美元，一位65岁的妇女有望每月得到450美元的收入。但他也解释了另一个选择，花费约为前者的十分之一，名叫长寿保险。（你提前购买该年金，10年或20年后开始拿回报，这时候你80岁，可能已经花光了所有的积蓄。）在该课程中，关于年金定价所用的死亡表的原理很复杂，可能超出了你想知道的范围，希望你能耐着性子看完。
But as Professor Rauh points out, it’s a university-level class. There will be moments where you may feel a sudden urge to check your e-mail (like when the first mathematical equation with a sigma symbol appears on the screen). Indeed, a basic understanding of statistics is helpful, and you shouldn’t be easily intimidated by a simple spreadsheet.
但正如劳尤所指出的，这是一个大学水平的课程。有时候你可能会突然觉得非常想停下来去查收邮件（比如当你看到屏幕上出现第一个带有西格玛标记的数学方程式时）。实际上，对统计学有基本的理解是很有帮助的，而你不应该让一个简单的数据表轻易吓跑。
The course ends with two lectures that explain the basics of pensions, the trouble erupting within our public pension system and how it affects taxpayers and municipal bondholders. Students are then tasked with a pretty serious group project: analyzing a state or local pension plan’s solvency — whether it’s the New York State Teachers’ Retirement System or Calpers, the big California public pension plan — and coming up with ways to make it stronger. The five teams with the most promising ideas will get to present their proposals in January, all expenses paid, at the Stanford Graduate School of Business to a panel of faculty and experts.
最后两堂课是解释养老金的基本内容：我们公共养老金系统爆发的问题以及它怎样影响纳税人及市政债券持有者。接着会布置给学生们一个相当严肃的团队任务：分析一个州或当地养老金计划的偿付能力——无论是纽约州教师退休基金(New York State Teachers’ Retirement System)还是庞大的加州公务员退休基金(Calpers)——然后提出改善方案。五个小组中，方案最有希望的一组将在一月去斯坦福商学院，向教师和专家组汇报展示他们的建议，费用全部报销。
“We are sitting on the likelihood that there will have to be very large tax increases to pay for public employees’ pensions and that is a very important aspect of our portfolios as well — how much we will be taxed,” said Professor Rauh, who has written several research papers analyzing public pensions.
“为了支付公职人员养老金，我们很可能将迎来大幅度的增税，而且这也是我们投资组合中一个非常重要的方面——我们的税赋将有多重，”已经写了几篇分析公共养老金研究文章的劳尤说。
That’s likely to incite much debate in the forums, where most of the interaction among students will take place.
这可能会在论坛上激起很多辩论。而学生们的讨论大多会在论坛上进行。
As much ground as this course covers — from asset allocation to the investing in different types of tax-deferred accounts — there’s still plenty of material that needs to be explained. Should I pay for advice? If so, what sort of adviser should I work with? How do I figure out my risk tolerance for stocks? Should I take Social Security now or later? And what should I make of all of these guaranteed return products that my brother-in-law keeps talking about?
尽管该课堂涵盖了很多方面——从资产配置到投资不同类型的递延税账户——但我们仍然还有许多内容需要解释。是否应该为建议付费？如果要付费，我应该和哪种顾问打交道？我该怎样计算出我的股票风险容限？对于社保，我是现在参加还是以后参加？对于我妹夫一直念叨的保证有回报的产品，我该怎么弄明白？
At the end of some of the lessons, you may still be left with your own questions, but that may be Professor Rauh’s point: now, at least, you know what to ask. “There is some, ‘Do this, not that,’ ” he said. “But that doesn’t give them the complexity to operate in life.”
在这些课程结束时，你可能还有一些问题没得到解答，但这可能正是劳尤的意图：至少现在你知道该问什么了。“是有一些‘要这么做，别那么做’的建议，”他说，“但这些建议是笼统的，在实际生活中遇到的问题可能更复杂。”