Stanford University announced Tuesday that it would divest its $18.7 billion endowment of stock in coal-mining companies, becoming the first major university to lend support to a nationwide campaign to purge endowments and pension funds of fossil fuel investments.
周二，斯坦福大学(Stanford University)宣布，该校将出售其捐赠基金持有的采煤企业的股票，斯坦福大学的捐赠基金金额有187亿美元（约合1166亿元人民币）。一项全国性的运动呼吁捐赠基金和养老基金停止在化石燃料领域的投资，斯坦福成了第一所支持这一运动的主要大学。
The university said it acted in accordance with internal guidelines that allow its trustees to consider whether “corporate policies or practices create substantial social injury” when choosing investments. Coal’s status as a major source of carbon pollution linked to climate change persuaded the trustees to remove companies “whose principal business is coal” from their investment portfolio, the university said. 
斯坦福大学表示，学校的行动是根据内部准则做出的。准则允许学校董事会在选择投资项目时，考虑“公司政策或经营活动是否会给社会带来显著损害”。该大学表示，煤是碳污染的重要来源，而碳污染又与气候变化有关，校董会因此决定，将“主营业务是煤炭”的企业从他们的投资组合中剔除。
Stanford’s associate vice president for communications, Lisa Lapin, said the decision covers about 100 companies worldwide that derive the majority of their revenue from coal extraction. Not all of those companies are in the university’s investment portfolio, whose structure is private, she said. Over all, the university’s coal holdings are a small fraction of its endowment.
斯坦福大学负责对外沟通事宜的助理副校长莉萨·拉平(Lisa Lapin)表示，这一决定涉及全球大约100家主要收入来源是采煤的公司。她表示，该学校的投资组合并没有囊括上述所有公司，投资组合的构成需要保密。总的来说，该校在煤矿公司的持股只占其捐赠基金的一小部分。
“But a small percentage is still a substantial amount of money,” she added. 
她还表示，“但一小部分也是一大笔钱。”
The trustees’ decision carries more symbolic than financial weight, but it is a major victory for a rapidly growing student-led divestment movement that is now active at roughly 300 universities. 
与经济影响相比，校董会的决定产生的影响更多是象征性的。但对于由学生主导的快速发展的撤资运动来说，这是一个重大胜利。目前，大约有300所大学开展了此类运动。
At least 11 small universities have elected to remove fossil-fuel stocks from their endowments, but none approaches Stanford’s prestige or national influence.  Tuesday’s decision seems likely to increase the pressure on other major universities to follow suit.
至少有11家小型大学选择不再利用捐赠基金持有化石燃料公司的股票，但它们的声望和全国影响力都不及斯坦福。周二宣布的决定似乎加大了其他知名大学采取相同举措的压力。
Among other universities, Harvard has resisted student pressure for divestment, and one student was arrested on Thursday after pro-divestment activists blockaded the entrance to the school’s administrative offices.
在这些大学当中，哈佛大学(Harvard University)顶住了学生要求撤资的压力。周四，支持撤资的活动人士堵住了学校行政办公室的入口，一名学生被逮捕。
Stanford’s trustees acted after Fossil Free Stanford, the campus branch of the movement, petitioned the board to re-evaluate the university’s holdings in energy companies, Ms. Lapin said.
拉平说，斯坦福大学的校董会采取行动之前，“斯坦福零化石”(Fossil Free Stanford)——“零化石”组织在该校的分支——曾向校董会请愿，要求其重新评估学校持有的能源公司的股份。
Yari Greaney, 20, a Fossil Free Stanford organizer, said the group was “very proud of Stanford taking this leadership position.” Nationally, leaders of the divestment movement praised the school for its decision. 
现年20岁的亚里·格里尼(Yari Greaney)是“斯坦福零化石”的组织者。他说，该组织“对斯坦福能够做出表率感到非常骄傲”。在美国各地，撤资运动的领导者都称赞了该校的决定。
As a global institution, Stanford “knows the havoc that climate change creates around our planet,” Bill McKibben, the president and co-founder of the environmental group 350.org, said in a statement. “Other forward-looking and internationally minded institutions will follow, I’m sure.”
环保组织350.org的总裁兼联合创始人比尔·麦吉本(Bill McKibben)在一份声明中说，作为一家全球性高校，斯坦福“知道气候变化在我们的星球上造成的灾难性后果。我敢肯定，其他具有前瞻性和国际视野的院校也会效仿。”
Maura Cowley, the executive director of Energy Action Coalition, an assemblage of groups active on climate change issues, called the decision “a huge, huge victory.” 
能源行动联盟(Energy Action Coalition)集合了多家积极应对气候变化问题的组织。该机构的执行主任莫拉·考利(Maura Cowley)说，斯坦福大学的这个决定是“一次非常巨大的成功”。
“Their decision, coming from such a major university and from such a huge endowment, shows that the coal industry and other fossil fuel industries are quickly becoming relics of the past,” she said in an interview.
她在接受采访时说，“这个决定出自如此大型的学府，而且出自如此庞大的捐赠基金。这显示出，煤炭产业和其他化石能源产业很快就会变成历史遗迹。”
The trustees began studying divestment after Fossil Free Stanford petitioned them to re-evaluate their holdings of energy companies. An advisory panel that included students, faculty, staff and alumni spent roughly five months studying the issue before recommending that coal stocks be sold, Deborah DeCotis, the chairwoman of the board’s special committee on investment responsibility, said in an interview.
在“斯坦福零化石”向校董会成员请愿、要求其重新评估持有的能源公司股份之后，校董会开始研究转让股权的计划。校董会投资责任特别委员会的主席德博拉·德克蒂斯(Deborah DeCotis)在接受采访时说，一个由学生、教职员工和校友组成的顾问小组，用约五个月的时间研究了这个问题，然后才提出了出售煤炭股票的建议。
Among other deciding factors, Ms. DeCotis said, the panel noted that coal produces the most carbon per British thermal unit of any widely used fossil fuel, that practical alternatives to burning coal are available, and that the university was not dependent on coal or coal-derived products.
德克蒂斯说，这个小组提出的决策因素包括，在所有被广泛使用的化石燃料中，每英热单位产生的碳排放，煤炭最多；有能够替代煤的其他可行选择；此外，该校并不依赖煤炭或煤炭的衍生品。