LOS ANGELES — It surprised no one that Hollywood used the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday as a platform to condemn Donald J. Trump. Moviedom power players mostly supported Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. Many stars openly telegraphed their disgust when Mr. Trump won instead. The president-elect has struggled to book A-list talent for his inauguration.
洛杉矶——对于好莱坞以周日的金球奖(Golden Globe Awards)为平台谴责唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的做法，没人感到惊讶。影坛有影响力的演员大部分支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的总统竞选。特朗普胜选时，很多影星公开表露出厌恶。身为候任总统的特朗普难以请到顶级明星参加自己的就职仪式。
But nobody was quite expecting Meryl Streep, as she collected a lifetime achievement Globe, to so firmly lay down the gauntlet for a new kind of culture war, targeting Mr. Trump’s skills as a showman and entertainer and branding them as insidious. She called on actors, foreigners, journalists and others to stand together and support the arts and the First Amendment, while portraying Mr. Trump as a bully who could whip his supporters into a frenzy and “show their teeth.”
但没人想到梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)在领取金球奖终身成就奖时，会如此坚定地为一种新型文化战而战，把目标对准特朗普作为一名炫耀者和表演者的能力，说它们为阴险，并号召演员、外国人、记者和其他人团结起来，支持艺术和《第一修正案》(First Amendment)。与此同时，她还把特朗普描绘成一个很会煽动支持者的霸凌者，把他们变得疯狂和“愤怒”。
Judging by his reaction to her rallying cry, Mr. Trump is ready to fight. And he seemed eager for the distraction, coming after days of intense scrutiny about Russia’s involvement in the presidential election and the business dealings of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and soon-to-be senior adviser in the White House.
从特朗普对斯特里普发声的反应来判断，特朗普已经做好战斗的准备。而且，他似乎很渴望出现这种能分散民众注意力的事情——此前数天，俄罗斯介入大选和他的女婿、很快将成为白宫高级顾问的贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)的商业交易都受到密切关注。
Ms. Streep, Hollywood’s most celebrated actress, with 30 Globe nominations (eight wins) and 19 Oscar nods (three wins), started her acceptance speech by acknowledging that entertainment industry elites — after eight warm years under President Obama — suddenly find themselves on very different footing.
斯特里普是好莱坞最著名的女演员，曾经获得30次金球奖提名（8次获奖）和19次奥斯卡提名（3次获奖）。一开始发表获奖感言，她就承认，在奥巴马总统当政八年后，娱乐业精英突然发现自己的处境出现了非常大的不同。
“All of us in this room really belong to the most vilified segments in American society right now,” she said.
“在坐的每一位，现在都属于美国社会中被诋毁得最严重的一群人，”她说。
Ms. Streep, quoting Carrie Fisher, gave people in show business specific instructions: “Take your broken heart, make it into art.”
斯特里普引用凯丽·费雪(Carrie Fisher)的话，为演艺行业的从业者提供了明确的指导：“带着你破碎的心，将其创造为艺术吧。”
The message certainly got across.
这个讯息无疑得到了一些人的理解。
“She challenged us to take action in a way where I was like, ‘This is what Hollywood kind of should be,’” Issa Rae, nominated for her acting in the HBO comedy “Insecure,” said after the ceremony. “She’s surpassed strictly being a performance artist and now is an artist of social change.”
“她激励我们采取行动，让我觉得‘好莱坞就应该这样，’”凭借在HBO的喜剧《不安感》(Insecure)中的表演获得提名的伊萨·雷(Issa Rae)在颁奖典礼结束后说。“她已经完全超越了表演艺术家的身份，现在是一位社会变革艺术家。”
Rami Malek, who stars in the USA drama “Mr. Robot,” said of Ms. Streep to his table, according to The Los Angeles Times, “In a weird way, she’s our president.”
据《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)报道，出演USA电视网剧集《黑客军团》的拉米·马雷克(Rami Malek)跟同桌的人谈起斯特里普，说“她在以一种奇怪的方式当我们的总统。”
War footing? It felt like it.
进入备战状态？感觉是这样。
Mr. Trump’s supporters, who made #BoycottGoldenGlobes trend on Twitter earlier on Sunday, either anticipating critical comments or annoyed that some Hollywood stars have been outspoken in their horror at his election, responded with negative comments. “Dear Meryl Streep. We voted AGAINST you Too!” one woman wrote on Twitter.
周日早些时候，特朗普的支持者让#BoycottGoldenGlobes（抵制金球奖）标签成为Twitter上的热点，他们要么料到了会有批评言论，要么厌烦一些好莱坞明星公开讲述对特朗普当选的恐惧，因此做出了负面的回应。“亲爱的梅丽尔·斯特里普。我们投票反对的也包括你！”一名女子在Twitter上写道。
Mr. Trump, speaking by phone to The New York Times early Monday morning, dismissed Ms. Streep as “a Hillary lover,” noting that she spoke at the Democratic National Convention last summer on behalf of Mrs. Clinton. Later, in a series of tweets, Mr. Trump called Ms. Streep “one of the most over-rated actresses in Hollywood” and “a Hillary flunky who lost big.”
周一早晨通过电话接受《纽约时报》采访时，特朗普对斯特里普不以为然，称她是“希拉里的粉丝”，还指出她去年夏天曾在民主党全国大会上为克林顿助选。后来，特朗普又连续发推文，称斯特里普是“好莱坞最被高估的女演员之一”，还说她是“输惨了的希拉里的马屁精”。
Kellyanne Conway, a counselor to Mr. Trump, continued the counterattack on Fox News Monday. She criticized Ms. Streep for “inciting people’s worst instincts” and poked fun at celebrities “talking about how vilified poor Hollywood is” while wearing “their gazillion-dollar gowns.”
特朗普的顾问凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)周一继续在福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)上进行反击。她指责斯特里普“煽动人们最恶劣的本能”，取笑名人们一边穿着“上亿美元的礼服，一边谈论可怜的好莱坞如何受到诋毁”。
She added of Ms. Streep: “She sounds like 2014. The election is over. She lost.”
而后她还这样评价斯特里普：“她听起来像是停留在2014年。选举已经结束了。她输了。”
Those counterattacks came just hours before the news that Mr. Kushner would become a White House adviser to his father-in-law, which raises questions about nepotism and possible conflicts of interest. Mr. Trump has a habit of engaging in side fights when bigger controversy looms, though he said he had been unaware of Ms. Streep’s remarks until a reporter from The Times called him early Monday morning.
就在做出这些反击几小时后，库什纳将在白宫担任他岳父的顾问的消息传出，这让人质疑其中的裙带关系和可能的利益冲突。特朗普习惯在更大的争议逼近时，参与一些边角的争端，尽管他说在时报的记者周一早上给他打电话之前，他根本不知道斯特里普发表了那些言论。
With her deep international fan base, Ms. Streep faced little risk in giving a swift nudge to Hollywood and any like-minded artists watching the telecast. It is too early to say how the entertainment industry might channel its outrage at Mr. Trump’s election or whether a cultural war is truly at hand, as occurred in the 1980s when politicians were trying to cut funding to artists whose work they found objectionable.
面向好莱坞和观看直播的那些志同道合的艺术家，在全球拥有众多忠实影迷的斯特里普摆出这样的姿态，是几乎不用冒什么风险的。娱乐业会将自身对特朗普当选的愤怒情绪转化为什么，目前尚不得而知，也不确定一场文化战是否即将到来——就像上世纪80年代发生的情况，当时的政治人士要求停止向那些令他们反感的艺术家提供资金支持。
The perception of Hollywood as one of the country’s most prominent liberal bubbles has been long established. But from a business perspective, television networks and movie studios can little afford to alienate any audience as they contend with pressures that include declining DVD sales, competition from streaming services and wildly uneven box office results. At the glittering Globes after-parties, several studio executives privately applauded Ms. Streep but refused to join her in speaking publicly, citing business interests. Several industry executives expressed confusion about why she would use her speech to convey a message that seemed predictable: a Hollywood star denouncing Mr. Trump.
长久以来，好莱坞一直被看作为美国重要的自由空间之一。但从商业角度看，面对DVD销售额下降，流媒体服务竞争和票房收入极不均衡等问题带来的压力，电视台和电影制片厂很少承担得起疏远任何观众的代价。在星光璀璨的金球奖晚宴上，好几位制片厂高管私下称赞了斯特里普，但他们拒绝像她那样公开发言，理由是需要考虑商业利益。好几名业界高管表达了他们的不解，他们不明白她为何要用自己的演讲传达一个意料之中的信息：一位好莱坞明星谴责特朗普。
Not everyone in Hollywood agrees with Ms. Streep. Ms. Rae, who also produces “Insecure,” about a young black woman navigating work and love in southern Los Angeles, noted that there were Globes attendees who “weren’t feeling it.”
并非所有在好莱坞的人都与斯特里普意见一致，同时也是《不安感》——讲述了一位年轻的黑人女性在南洛杉矶的工作与爱情故事——制片人的雷指出，也有一些出席金球奖的嘉宾“不能苟同”。
“I think there’s a misconception that Hollywood is all on the same page,” Ms. Rae said. “When you think about it, they’re all a bunch of rich people at the end of the day. She’s not preaching to the choir if nobody else is taking the same action or is doing what she’s doing.”
“我认为这里有一种错误的观念，即认为好莱坞的人立场都是一样的，”雷说道。“仔细想想，这些人说白了就是一帮有钱人。只要其他人没有同样的举动，或者在做她正做的事情，那她就不是在向唱诗班布道。”
Danny Strong, the executive producer of “Empire,” acknowledged that the most Globe ceremony attendees were probably “liberal Democrats.” But, he said: “It’s not about the 200 people in the room; it’s about the millions of people watching. That’s who that message was for.”
《嘻哈帝国》执行制片人丹尼·斯特朗(Danny Strong)承认，出席金球奖的大多数人可能的确是“自由民主党人”。但他表示：“重点不在这间屋子里的200人；而是正在观看节目的数千万人。是说给那些人听的。”
At the HBO party, Eddie Redmayne said that he found Ms. Streep’s speech “incredibly emotional,” but he would not say whether he thought Hollywood should follow her example and speak out politically.
埃迪·雷德梅因(Eddie Redmayne)在HBO的派对上表示，他觉得斯特里普的演讲“极富感情”，但他不愿透露他是否觉得好莱坞应该追随她的脚步，公开发表政治言论。
Producers who specialize in awards telecasts have said that postshow research indicates that many viewers dislike it when celebrities turn a trip to the stage into a political bully pulpit. (Ms. Streep, while the most outspoken, was hardly the only winner to criticize Mr. Trump during the live Globes broadcast.) It was hard to tell if ratings were influenced on Sunday.
专门制作颁奖节目的制片人表示，节目播出后的调查显示，当名人把在舞台上亮相的机会变成进行政治鞭挞的讲坛时，观众并不喜欢。（斯特里普是全场言辞最激烈的人，但绝非唯一一个在金球奖颁奖典礼上批评特朗普的获奖者。）很难判断周日的收视率是否受到了影响。
According to Nielsen data, the ceremony attracted about 20 million viewers, an 8 percent increase from the previous year, when Ricky Gervais hosted. Among adults age 18 to 49, the audience most coveted by networks, the 2017 Globes rose about 2 percent, NBC said.
尼尔森(Nielsen)的数据显示，这届颁奖礼吸引了2000万观众，比前一年里奇·贾维斯(Ricky Gervais)主持的那届增加了8%。NBC表示，其中电视台最渴望吸引的18至49岁的成人观众，2017年金球奖颁奖典礼增加了2%。