WASHINGTON — Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor, said in an extensive interview this month that he did not take any secret N.S.A. documents with him to Russia when he fled there in June, assuring that Russian intelligence officials could not get access to them.
华盛顿——本月，前美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)在一次内容广泛的采访中说，他今年6月逃到俄罗斯时并没有携带任何NSA的机密文件，并保证俄罗斯情报官员无法获得这些材料。
Mr. Snowden said he gave all of the classified documents he had obtained to journalists he met in Hong Kong, before flying to Moscow, and did not keep any copies for himself. He did not take the files to Russia “because it wouldn’t serve the public interest,” he said.
斯诺登称，飞往莫斯科之前，他已把自己获得的机密文件全部交给了在香港遇到的记者，自己没有留下任何拷贝。他说，他之所以没把这些文件带到俄罗斯，是“因为这样做不符合公众利益”。
“What would be the unique value of personally carrying another copy of the materials onward?” he added.
他还说，“亲身携带这些材料的拷贝，有什么特殊的好处吗？”
He also asserted that he was able to protect the documents from China’s spies because he was familiar with that nation’s intelligence abilities, saying that as an N.S.A. contractor he had targeted Chinese operations and had taught a course on Chinese cybercounterintelligence.
他还坚称自己有能力不让中国间谍获得这些文件，因为他对中国的谍报能力很了解。他说，作为NSA承包商雇员，他曾以中国的活动为行动目标，还曾教授关于中国网络反间谍活动的课程。
“There’s a zero percent chance the Russians or Chinese have received any documents,” he said.
他说，“俄罗斯和中国获得任何文件的可能性为零。”
American intelligence officials have expressed grave concern that the files might have fallen into the hands of foreign intelligence services, but Mr. Snowden said he believed that the N.S.A. knew he had not cooperated with the Russians or the Chinese. He said he was publicly revealing that he no longer had any agency documents to explain why he was confident that Russia had not gained access to them. He had been reluctant to disclose that information previously, he said, for fear of exposing the journalists to greater scrutiny.
美国情报官员曾表示，非常担心这些文件落入外国情报部门之手，但斯诺登说，他相信NSA知道，他并没有与俄罗斯或中国合作。他说，他公开表示自己不再携有任何NSA文件，正是为了解释，他为何确信俄罗斯无法获得这些材料。他说，此前他之所以不愿意透露这个讯息，是因为担心相关记者会受到更严格的审查。
In a wide-ranging interview over several days in the last week, Mr. Snowden offered detailed responses to accusations that have been leveled against him by American officials and other critics, provided new insights into why he became disillusioned with the N.S.A. and decided to disclose the documents, and talked about the international debate over surveillance that resulted from the revelations. The interview took place through encrypted online communications.
上周，在一次持续数天的深度采访中，斯诺登对美国官员和其他批评者对他的指控作了详细回应，提供了一些新的情况，有助于人们了解他为何对NSA感到失望，为何决定披露这些文件。他还谈论了文件泄露所引起的关于监视的全球争论。此次采访通过加密的网络交流进行。
Mr. Snowden, 30, has been praised by privacy advocates and assailed by government officials as a traitor who has caused irreparable harm, and he is facing charges under the Espionage Act for leaking the N.S.A. documents to the news media. In the interview, he said he believed he was a whistle-blower who was acting in the nation’s best interests by revealing information about the N.S.A.’s surveillance dragnet and huge collections of communications data, including that of Americans.
隐私维护倡导人士对30岁的斯诺登表示赞扬，政府官员则称他是叛国者，造成了无法弥补的损害；因为向媒体泄露NSA文件，他还面临《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)项下的指控。他在采访中说，他认为自己只是一名揭秘者，之所以揭露NSA监视网的相关信息及其大量采集通讯数据（其中包括美国人的通讯数据）的做法，只是出于美国的最大利益。
He argued that he had helped American national security by prompting a badly needed public debate about the scope of the intelligence effort. “The secret continuance of these programs represents a far greater danger than their disclosure,” Mr. Snowden said. He added that he had been more concerned that Americans had not been told about the N.S.A.’s reach than he was about any specific surveillance operation.
他还说，对情报工作范围的公众讨论十分必要，而他引发了这种讨论，因此对美国国家安全做出了贡献。“这些项目若是秘密持续，危险比遭到曝光大得多，”斯诺登说。他还表示，与任何具体的监视行动相比，他更担心的是美国人对NSA监视范围的无知。
“So long as there’s broad support amongst a people, it can be argued there’s a level of legitimacy even to the most invasive and morally wrong program, as it was an informed and willing decision,” he said. “However, programs that are implemented in secret, out of public oversight, lack that legitimacy, and that’s a problem. It also represents a dangerous normalization of ‘governing in the dark,’ where decisions with enormous public impact occur without any public input.”
“只要能获得民众的广泛支持，即便是最具攻击性的不道德项目也可以说具有一定的合法性，因为人们知道它、支持它。”他说。“但是，秘密实施的项目没有受到公众监督，所以不具有这种合法性，这就是个问题。这种做法还意味着‘暗中控制’的标准化，而这样是很危险的，因为公众对能造成巨大公共影响的决定毫不知情。”
Mr. Snowden said he had never considered defecting while in Hong Kong, nor in Russia, where he has been permitted to stay for one year. He said he felt confident that he had secured the documents from Chinese spies, and that the N.S.A. knew he had done so. His last target while working as an agency contractor was China, he said, adding that he had had “access to every target, every active operation” mounted by the N.S.A. against the Chinese. “Full lists of them,” he said.
斯诺登说，他在香港期间从未想过叛国，在俄罗斯时也是如此。俄罗斯将为他提供为期一年的庇护。他说他可以确保中国间谍无法获得相关材料，NSA也知道他做到了这一点。他说，他在情报部门工作时的最后一个目标就是中国，并且补充说，在NSA对中国采取的行动中，他曾经“有权接触每个目标、每个活跃行动。所有行动。”
“If that was compromised,” he went on, “N.S.A. would have set the table on fire from slamming it so many times in denouncing the damage it had caused. Yet N.S.A. has not offered a single example of damage from the leaks. They haven’t said boo about it except ‘we think,’ ‘maybe,’ ‘have to assume’ from anonymous and former officials. Not ‘China is going dark.’ Not ‘the Chinese military has shut us out.’ ”
“如果这一点没有保障的话，”他还说，“NSA就会无数次地拍着桌子谴责泄密事件造成的损害。然而，NSA并没有拿出任何证据来说明泄密事件造成的损害。除了一些匿名前官员所说的‘我们认为’、‘或许’、‘必须假定’之外，他们什么也没说。他们没说‘中国将会潜伏起来’，也没说‘中国军方把我们关在了门外’。”
An N.S.A. spokeswoman did not respond Thursday to a request for comment on Mr. Snowden’s assertions.
周四，NSA的一名女发言人没有回应对斯诺登的声明置评的请求。
Mr. Snowden said that his decision to leak N.S.A. documents developed gradually, dating back at least to his time working as a technician in the Geneva station of the C.I.A. His experiences there, Mr. Snowden said, fed his doubts about the intelligence community, while also convincing him that working through the chain of command would only lead to retribution.
斯诺登说，泄露NSA文件的决定并非一时兴起，最晚是在中情局(CIA)日内瓦站做技术员的时候，他已经产生了这种想法。斯诺登说，在那里的经历增加了他对情报工作的怀疑，同时也使他确信，通过控制链来工作只会带来惩罚。
He disputed an account in The New York Times last week reporting that a derogatory comment placed in his personnel evaluation while he was in Geneva was the result of suspicions that he was trying to break in to classified files to which he was not authorized to have access. (The C.I.A. later took issue with the description of why he was reprimanded.) Mr. Snowden said the comment was placed in his file by a senior manager seeking to punish him for trying to warn the C.I.A. about a computer vulnerability.
他驳斥了《纽约时报》上周的报道，该报道披露，他在日内瓦工作时，上司在他的人事评估报告里放入了一段负面评语，原因是怀疑他试图窃取无权接触的机密文件。（后来，CIA否认了他受到斥责是由于这个原因。）斯诺登说，那段评语是一名高级经理放入他的档案的，为的是对他进行惩罚，因为他试图警告CIA，电脑易于受到攻击。
Mr. Snowden said that in 2008 and 2009, he was working in Geneva as a telecommunications information systems officer, handling everything from information technology and computer networks to maintenance of the heating and air-conditioning systems. He began pushing for a promotion, but got into what he termed a “petty e-mail spat” in which he questioned a senior manager’s judgment.
斯诺登说，2008年和2009年，他在日内瓦担任电信信息系统员，负责从信息技术、电脑网络到维护供暖和空调系统的所有事务。他开始奋力争取升职，但却卷入了一起被他称为“鸡毛蒜皮的电子邮件口角”的事件，他在事件里质疑了一名高级经理的判断。
Several months later, Mr. Snowden said, he was writing his annual self-evaluation when he discovered flaws in the software of the C.I.A.’s personnel Web applications that would make them vulnerable to hacking. He warned his supervisor, he said, but his boss advised him to drop the matter and not rock the boat. After a technical team also brushed him off, he said, his boss finally agreed to allow him to test the system to prove that it was flawed.
斯诺登说，几个月之后，写年度自评的时候，他发现了CIA的人事网络申请软件的缺陷，这些缺陷将使申请资料易于受到黑客攻击。他说，他向上司提出了警示，他的上司却建议他放下这件事，不要捣乱。他说，技术团队也把他晾在一边，但他的上司最终批准他测试系统，以证明系统确有缺陷。
He did so by adding some code and text “in a nonmalicious manner” to his evaluation document that showed that the vulnerability existed, he said. His immediate supervisor signed off on it and sent it through the system, but a more senior manager — the man Mr. Snowden had challenged earlier — was furious and filed a critical comment in Mr. Snowden’s personnel file, he said.
斯诺登说，他遵命进行了测试，方法是以“一种非恶意的方式”给他那份显示系统存在隐患的评估文件添加了一些编码和文本。斯诺登说，他的直接上司签署了测试结果，通过系统把它发了出去，级别更高的一名上司却大发雷霆，并且在斯诺登的人事档案里加入了批评性的评语，这名上司恰巧是斯诺登早些时候质疑过的那个人。
He said he considered filing a complaint with the C.I.A.’s inspector general about what he considered to be a reprisal, adding that he could not recall whether he had done so or a supervisor had talked him out of it. A C.I.A. spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Snowden’s account of the episode or whether he filed a complaint.
斯诺登说，他曾考虑向CIA的监察长投诉此事，因为他觉得这是报复。他还说，他想不起自己是真的提出了投诉，还是说一名上司劝服他放弃了投诉。CIA的发言人拒绝就斯诺登对这一事件的陈述及他是否提出过投诉发表评论。
But the incident, Mr. Snowden said, convinced him that trying to work through the system would only lead to punishment. He said he knew of others who suffered reprisals for what they had exposed, including Thomas A. Drake, who was prosecuted for disclosing N.S.A. contracting abuses to The Baltimore Sun. (He met with Mr. Snowden in Moscow last week to present an award to him for his actions.) And he knew other N.S.A. employees who had gotten into trouble for embarrassing a senior official in an e-mail chain that included a line, referring to the Chinese Army, that said, “Is this the P.L.A. or the N.S.A.?”
不过，斯诺登说，这个事件让他确信，试图通过体制解决问题只会招来惩罚。他说，他听说过一些人因为揭露情况而受到报复的事情，其中包括托马斯·A·德雷克(Thomas A. Drake)，后者因为向《巴尔的摩太阳报》(The Baltimore Sun)披露NSA在分包中滥用公款而受到迫害。（上周，德雷克在莫斯科会见了斯诺登，给他颁发了一个奖项，以表彰他的行为。）斯诺登还知道，有一些NSA雇员曾因在一封连环往来的电子邮件中让一名高级经理受窘而卷入麻烦，邮件里包含着这么一句话，“这里是PLA还是NSA？”PLA指的是中国军队。
Mr. Snowden added that inside the spy agency “there’s a lot of dissent — palpable with some, even.” But he said that people were kept in line through “fear and a false image of patriotism,” which he described as “obedience to authority.”
斯诺登补充说，情报机构内部“有许多异议人士，其中有些人甚至相当容易被看出来。”不过他说，人们被“恐惧和虚伪的爱国主义表象”约束住了，他把这种状态形容为“对权力的顺从”。
He said he believed that if he tried to question the N.S.A.’s surveillance operations as an insider, his efforts “would have been buried forever,” and he would “have been discredited and ruined.” He said that “the system does not work,” adding that “you have to report wrongdoing to those most responsible for it.”
斯诺登说，他相信，如果他试图以内部人士的身份质疑NSA的监控行动，他的努力“肯定会遭到永久性的掩盖”，而他自己也“早就身败名裂，早就完蛋了。”他说“这个体制不管用”，还说“你必须向不当行为的最大责任人报告不当行为”。
Mr. Snowden said he finally decided to act when he discovered a copy of a classified 2009 inspector general’s report on the N.S.A.’s warrantless wiretapping program during the Bush administration. He said he found the document through a “dirty word search,” which he described as an effort by a systems administrator to check a computer system for things that should not be there in order to delete them and sanitize the system.
斯诺登说，他之所以最终决定采取行动，是因为他发现了监察长在2009年提交的一份机密文件，文件阐述了NSA在布什(Bush)政府期间未经授权展开的监听项目。他说，他是通过“脏字眼搜索”找到这份文件的，按他的描述，这种搜索是系统管理员检查电脑系统，搜索不当内容的一种方式，目的是删除这些内容，清洁系统。
“It was too highly classified to be where it was,” he said of the report. He opened the document to make certain that it did not belong there, and after seeing what it revealed, “curiosity prevailed,” he said.
他是这么说这份报告的，“它的机密等级太高了，不应该放在现有位置”。他打开文件，只是想确认它不属于现有位置。他说，看到它披露的信息后，“好奇心就占了上风”。
After reading about the program, which skirted the existing surveillance laws, he concluded that it had been illegal, he said. “If the highest officials in government can break the law without fearing punishment or even any repercussions at all,” he said, “secret powers become tremendously dangerous.”
他还说，他读了这个绕过现有监管法律的计划，之后得出结论，该计划是非法的。他说，“如果级别最高的政府官员都能违法，不必担心受到惩罚，甚至不必担心任何后果，那么秘密机构就会变得无比危险。”
He would not say exactly when he read the report, or discuss the timing of his subsequent actions to collect N.S.A. documents in order to leak them. But he said that reading the report helped crystallize his decision. “You can’t read something like that and not realize what it means for all of these systems we have,” he said.
他不愿透露自己阅读前述报告的确切时间，也不愿讨论他为泄密而收集NSA文件的后续行动发生的时间。不过他说，读到这份报告的事情促使他用行动实践自己的决定。他说，“读到这样的东西，你不可能意识不到，它对我们拥有的所有这些体制意味着什么。”
Mr. Snowden said that the impact of his decision to disclose information about the N.S.A. had been bigger than he had anticipated. He added that he did not control what the journalists who had the documents wrote about. He said that he handed over the documents to them because he wanted his own bias “divorced from the decision-making of publication,” and that “technical solutions were in place to ensure the work of the journalists couldn’t be interfered with.”
斯诺登说，他披露NSA相关信息的决定带来的影响大于他的预期。他还说，他没有干涉得到文件的记者都写了什么。他说，他把文件交给他们，是因为他想让“公布文件的决定远离”自我偏见的影响，还因为“技术解决方案已经就位，可以确保记者的工作不受干扰。”
Mr. Snowden declined to provide details about his living conditions in Moscow, except to say that he was not under Russian government control and was free to move around.
斯诺登拒绝提供自己在莫斯科的生活条件细节，只是说他没有受到俄罗斯政府的控制，可以自由地四处走动。