Life in Maine, where Stephen King has spent most of his adult years, requires long drives down country roads, time that King, whose mind is restless, likes to fill by listening to books on tape. In the ’80s, however, he sometimes could not find the books he wanted on tape — or maybe he just did not bother. He had three children: Naomi, Joe and Owen. They could read, couldn’t they? All King had to do was press record. Which is how his school-age children came to furnish their father, over the years, with a small library’s worth of books on tape.
斯蒂芬·金(Stephen King)成年之后主要呆在缅因州。在这里，他经常需要在乡村公路上长途开车，思维活跃的金总喜欢听有声读物来打发旅途时光。在80年代的时候，金有时却找不到他想听的书的磁带——有可能他根本就没找过。他有三个子女：娜欧米(Naomi)、乔(Joe)和欧文(Owen)。孩子们可以读书，不是吗？金只要按下录音键就好了。就这样，多年下来，金正值学龄阶段的孩子们给他们的父亲录下的书足足可以够得上一个小规模的书库。
On a drizzly morning in July, King, his wife and their children gathered in Maine for a reunion the week of the Fourth and compared notes on what constituted chores in the King household. As they talked, they were crowded around a rather small kitchen table in a lakeside guesthouse, where King’s 41-year-old son, Joe Hill, was staying, a short drive from the family’s summer home.
今年7月国庆节假期，金、他的妻子和孩子们在缅因州团聚，谈论起他们读过的书。这天早晨细雨不断，一家人围坐在湖边客房里的一张小餐桌边。金41岁的儿子乔·希尔(Joe Hill)住在这里。从这里开车很快就能到金家的避暑别墅。
“I read you that stupid book, that Dean Koontz book,” said Owen King, who is 36 and the youngest of the three children.
“我当年给你读了迪恩·孔茨（Dean Koontz，美国悬疑小说作家——译注）那本枯燥无聊的书，”欧文·金(Owen King)说。欧文今年36岁，是金三个子女中的老幺。
“Watch it!” interrupted his father, but Owen, seated across the table from his father, kept going: “The one where the dog is a genius, and he talks to him by pointing at Scrabble pieces with his nose.”
“说话注意点！”他的话遭到父亲打断。但是桌子对面的欧文却还没说完：“就是有一只天才狗的那本书。这狗靠用鼻子指着拼字游戏的棋子来和主人公对话。”
“Hey, I liked that book,” Joe said.
“嗨，我还蛮喜欢那本的，”乔说。
“I loved that book,” their father said.
“我可是酷爱那本书，”他们的父亲说。
“I remember reading ‘The Carpetbaggers,’ ” Joe said. “I remember feeling that was a very long novel.”
“我记得给你读过《北方佬》(The Carpetbaggers)，”乔说，“我还记得当时感觉那书好长啊。”
Tabitha King, their mother, suddenly sat upright. “That’s a filthy book — I didn’t know he would have asked you to read that. How old were you?”
他们的母亲塔碧莎·金(Tabitha King)突然坐直：“那本书充满了污言秽语。我不知道你爸竟然让你读它。你当时几岁？”
“I don’t know,” Joe said, dodging for his dad. “I was innocent when I started, and I was filthy afterward.”
为了帮父亲掩饰，乔说他不记得了。但他又说道：“开始读的时候我还很天真，读完后我就变得不干不净了。”
Owen’s wife, Kelly Braffet, was seated beside her husband. She had heard some of these details before; it was family lore that Naomi, who is 43, was asked to read and record, at age 12, “Raven,” the definitive journalistic account of the Jonestown massacre. “It was horrible,” Naomi said.
欧文的妻子凯利·布拉菲特(Kelly Braffet)坐在丈夫身旁。这些细节她之前有所耳闻。今年43岁的娜欧米在12岁的时候就读录了《黑鸦》(Raven)，这已经成了金家人津津乐道的轶事。这是一本关于琼斯镇惨案的最可靠的纪实文字。“太可怕了，” 娜欧米说。
Stephen finally rallied in self-defense. “But you read me all those Wilbur Smiths!” he said to Naomi. “And ‘Anna Karenina.’ ”
金终于开始为自己辩解：“但我还让你读了所有威尔伯·史密斯(Wilbur Smiths)的小说，”他对娜欧米说，“还有《安娜·卡列尼娜》(Anna Karenina)。”
Entertaining their parents, for the King children, was part job, part enrichment. At bedtime, they were the ones expected to tell their parents stories, instead of the other way around. Whatever their methods or intentions, Stephen and Tabitha’s shared vocation, and their approach to child rearing, has yielded a significant number of successful fiction writers in their household. Tabitha is an accomplished writer with eight novels to her credit, and two of their three children, Joe and Owen, are novelists. (Naomi is a Unitarian Universalist minister.) Joe’s “NOS4A2,” a sprawling mix of horror and fantasy that is his third critically praised best seller, was published last April; Owen’s second work of fiction, a well-received comedic novel titled “Double Feature,” was published in March. Owen, perhaps inevitably, married a writer, Kelly Braffet, whose third novel, a literary thriller called “Save Yourself,” is out this month. And Stephen’s much-anticipated sequel to the “The Shining,” titled “Doctor Sleep,” comes out this fall.
为父母提供消遣内容，对于金家的孩子们来说既是责任，也是学习的机会。别家的孩子在睡觉前会有父母讲故事给他们听，但金家的孩子们要给父母讲故事。无论他们的方法和目的如何，金和妻子共同的作家身份和他们教育孩子的方式使这个家庭出了好几位成功的作家。塔碧莎自己是一个事业有成的作家，一共发表了八部作品。乔和欧文都是小说家（娜欧米是一位寻道会牧师）。去年4月，乔出版了《NOS4A2》。这是一部恐怖和奇幻交织的宏篇大作，是乔第三部受到评论界叫好的畅销之作。欧文的第二部作品《连场电影》(Double Feature)出版于今年3月。这是一部喜剧小说，评价也相当不错。也许是命中注定，欧文也娶了一位作家。他的妻子凯莉·布拉菲特(Kelly Braffet)的惊悚小说《拯救你自己》(Save Yourself)在7月出版，这是她的第三部作品。金自己的作品、读者们期盼已久的《闪灵》(The Shining)续篇将在今年秋季出版发行，书名为《睡眠医生》(Doctor Sleep)。
Circus performers, klezmer musicians — those are the kinds of entertainers we usually expect to see in a family business, not writers. There are a few exceptions — children of successful writers who have bravely followed their parents. Martin Amis (son of Kingsley) is perhaps the best-known example, but Rebecca Miller (daughter of Arthur) and Ted Heller (son of Joseph) have also published, more quietly, well-reviewed novels. But for sheer volume of books, cultural impact and accumulated readership, none of those families come close to the Kings. The closest comparison would have to be the Brontës, and even they maxed out at a paltry three published novelists, plus one dissipated poet.
马戏团演员或是犹太音乐家，比较容易看到子承父业的状况，而不是作家。但也有个别著名作家的子女勇敢地追随父辈的写作生涯。马丁·艾米斯（Martin Amis，英国作家金斯利·艾米斯[Kingsley]的儿子）可能是最好的例子了。丽贝卡·米勒（Rebecca Miller，美国剧作家阿瑟·米勒[Arthur Miller]的女儿）和泰德·海勒（Ted Heller，美国作家约瑟夫·海勒[Joseph Heller]的儿子）也不声不响地发表了一些颇受好评的作品。但是从作品数量、文化影响力和读者人数各方面，没有哪个家庭能比得上金家了。也许勃朗特家族(Brontës)可以相提并论，但他们也仅仅出了三位出版了作品的小说家和一位放浪形骸的诗人。
If reading was a common escape in the King household, it was nonetheless deeply social. They read on tape, but they also took turns reading aloud after dinner, passing around “The Hobbit” or the Narnia chronicles. It followed that writing came to feel like something they all could share as well. Stephen and Tabitha did not take themselves off to quiet sheds or off-site offices to write; they wrote in their own home, upstairs, as their kids, below, wondered what words were being put on the page and played elaborate role-playing games of their own.
对金一家来说，读书不仅是休闲，也是一种重要的交流方式。他们不仅对着录音机念书，也会在饭后轮流朗读《霍比特人》(The Hobbit)或是《纳尼亚传奇》(Narnia)。于是，自然而然地，写作和读书一样成了这家人可以共同分享的东西。斯蒂芬和塔碧莎在写作时不会去什么僻静小屋或是外面的办公室。他们就在家里楼上的房间工作，而孩子们在楼下一边猜测着父母会写些什么，一边玩着他们自己复杂的角色游戏。
When the group broke from the conversation around the table to pose for a family photo outside, they continued their easy patter on books and pop culture. Joe’s corgi, McMurtry, named after the novelist Larry McMurtry, was insistently present, so that someone catching snippets, from a distance, of the family’s conversation as they made their way into the yard would have heard something like this: “Neil Gaiman . . . Spielberg . . . McMurtry! McMurtry! . . . Cronenberg . . . Matt Groening . . . McMurtry!”
到拍家庭合影的时候了。这家人打住话头，从桌边起身走到院子里，然后继续关于书籍和流行文化的闲谈。乔的柯基犬麦克墨屈（这名字来自小说家拉里·麦克墨屈[Larry McMurtry]）一直跟前跟后。如果这时有人从远处听到这家人谈话的只言片语，那他听到的多半会是这样：“尼尔·盖曼（Neil Gaiman，英国作家）……斯皮尔伯格(Spielberg)……麦克墨屈！麦克墨屈！……克罗讷博格（Cronenberg，加拿大导演）……马特·格罗宁（Matt Groening，美国作家）……麦克墨屈！”
“Did you see that picture of John Irving that ran somewhere — he was coming out of some swamp with his shirt off?” Owen asked. “He looked like a ninja.”
“你们看到约翰·欧文(John Irving)的那张照片了吗？”欧文问到，“他正从沼泽地里爬出来，没穿衬衫，看上去就像一个忍者。”
Then they assembled; they posed, as close to a first family of letters as America is likely to have.
然后他们站到了一起，摆好了姿势，看起来几乎有“美国文化界第一家庭”的气派。
“The last photographer who shot me kept yelling: ‘Love me! Love me!’ ” Stephen said.
“上一次给我照相的摄影师一直冲我喊：‘爱我吧！爱我吧！’”斯蒂芬说。
“That’s so ‘Zoolander,’ ” Kelly said.
“那他也太像《超级名模》（Zoolander，2001年出品的好莱坞荒诞喜剧片——译注）里的人物了，”凯利回应道。
Then: Flash.
这时，闪光灯亮起。
KELLY
凯莉
In 1990, when Kelly Braffet was a high-school freshman in Western Pennsylvania, her parents gave her, for Christmas, a Stephen King book-of-the-month subscription, which came, as she recalls, with a six-inch rubber skeleton — “very creepy.” It was just what she wanted. She was in her “Stephen King completist” phase, and she was trying to track down hardcover copies of his more obscure books. Her completist phase could have been considered officially over 17 years later, when she married Owen, whom she met at the Columbia M.F.A. writing program in 2001. The day they met, Braffet was carrying around a book by John D. MacDonald, a midcentury crime writer who would not be found on their syllabus but was an icon in the King household. She was a suitable girl: a book-loving, book-writing student who was pretty in glasses and had a healthy appreciation for potboilers. He was an easygoing, attentive boyfriend. Once they swapped manuscripts to make sure they did not hate each other’s writing, the relationship quickly moved forward.
1990年的时候，凯莉·布拉菲特刚进宾夕法尼亚州西部的一所高中。那年的圣诞节，她的父母给了她一个“当月推荐小说”斯蒂芬·金的订阅账户。她记得订阅赠品还包括一个六英寸长高、橡胶制成的“非常可怖的”骨骼标本。这正是她想要的。当时她立志收集斯蒂芬·金的全套作品，正在寻找金的几本不大有名作品的精装本。17年后，她的搜寻正式告终。这一年她嫁给了欧文。他们俩2001年在哥伦比亚大学MFA写作课程上相识。他们相遇的那一天，凯莉还随身带着一本约翰·D·迈克唐纳徳(John D. MacDonald)的书。迈克唐纳徳是50年代的一位犯罪小说家。他的作品并不在课程书单上，但他却是金家的偶像。凯莉对欧文来说再合适不过了：她爱书，也写书；她戴着眼镜也很漂亮；不排斥那些商业化的通俗作品。而欧文也是一个性情随和，关心人的男友。他们在交换了手稿，确保不厌恶对方的文字后，两人的关系进展迅速。
Even so, Braffet was nervous about meeting her future in-laws, nervous even at the sound of Stephen King’s voice on Owen’s answering machine. “It took me two years before I could actually speak in front of Steve and Tabby,” she said.
尽管如此，布拉菲特对于跟未来的公婆见面还是很紧张；甚至在欧文的电话留言上听到斯蒂芬·金的声音，都会让她感到紧张。“足足过了两年，我才能够当着斯蒂夫和塔碧莎的面说话，”她说。
Braffet’s father is an E.M.S. helicopter pilot, and her mother is a computer programmer who attended college late in life. Braffet herself worked two summers in a warehouse, where she “picked stickers off of one piece of paper and put them on another,” a glimpse of her possible future had she not earned a scholarship to Sarah Lawrence College. Her first visit to the King family home, which is in Bangor, was unnerving: all those endless rooms and hallways, like a real-life version of the hotel in “The Shining,” and that crazy, famous fence around their home, with its wrought-iron bats and cobwebs. “Their underground library,” Braffet noted, “was bigger than the entire library in the town I grew up in. It was . . . a lot.”
布拉菲特的父亲是一位邮政特快专递的直升飞机驾驶员，她的母亲在年纪较大时才上了大学，成了一位程序员。布拉菲特上大学前有两个暑假都在一个仓库打工，“把标签从一张纸上撕下贴到另一张纸上。”要不是拿到了莎拉·劳伦斯学院(Sarah Lawrence College)的奖学金，布拉菲特说仓库工作有可能就是她的未来。第一次拜访金家在缅因州班戈尔市的宅邸给了她相当大的触动：多得数不清的房间和走道，就像《闪灵》里的那家旅馆的现实版；更不要提屋外那道点缀着铸铁蝙蝠和蜘蛛网的著名的围墙了。布拉菲特提到了金家的地下图书馆，“比我长大的那镇子上的图书馆还大。真是……相当得多。”
Eventually, in 2004, while they were waiting to move into a condo in Brooklyn, Kelly and Owen spent six months living near the Kings in Maine, a period in which they saw them virtually every day. Braffet’s nerves clearly calmed. This July, at the Kings’ house, during some downtime, Braffet sat next to one of her childhood idols as he pored over his iPad; he was fully immersed in the video game Jetpack Joyride.
2004年，在等着搬进纽约布鲁克林的某套公寓之前，凯莉和欧文在缅因州距离金家不远的地方暂住了六个月。在那段时间，他们几乎天天都会和金的家人见面。凯莉总算变得没那么紧张了。今年7月的一天，金家人都比较空闲，凯莉坐在童年偶像的身旁，而金正在iPad上聚精会神地玩着《疯狂喷气机》(Jetpack Joyride)的游戏。
The relationship between Kelly and Stephen has the easy rapport of in-laws relieved to enjoy each other’s company, the conversation light, less likely to turn to the mysterious process of writing than to the end product — either someone else’s work or their own. The Kings’ embrace of her writing is clearly not a function of politeness; they seemed to be competing to outdo themselves in their praise of “Save Yourself” when the subject came up.
凯莉和金的关系轻松融洽，相处愉快。他们的谈话不会太严肃，谈论的更多的是他们自己或是别人的作品，而不是写作本身这个神秘的过程。金的家人对凯莉创作的推崇很显然不仅是出于礼貌。当谈到凯莉的新作《拯救你自己》时，全家人好像是在比赛着夸奖她。
“It’s like David Cronenberg adapted an S.E. Hinton novel for David Lynch,” Joe said.
“这书的风格像是大卫·克罗讷博格(David Cronenberg)把S·E·辛顿(S.E. Hinton)的小说改编成了剧本供大卫·林奇(David Lynch)拍电影用，”乔说道。
His father jumped in to refine his son’s mash-up description of the book’s tone: “It’s more like James Cain” — another of Stephen’s beloved crime writers — “adapted S.E. Hinton for David Lynch.”
他的父亲马上接过话茬，试图把儿子对这本书的大杂烩式的描述说得更精准一点：“更像是詹姆斯·凯恩(James Cain)为大卫·林奇改编的辛顿的作品。”凯恩是另外一位深受斯蒂芬·金喜爱的犯罪小说作家。
What they did not say, or maybe even notice, is that the book provides a literary, Internet-age update of King’s “Carrie”: a story of savage high-school bullying that ends in a blaze of violence; it includes a vampire-inspired cult but stops short of the supernatural.
他们没提到，可能也并没注意到的是，凯莉的这本书似乎是金的小说《魔女嘉莉》(Carrie)在互联网时代的更新版。《魔女嘉莉》讲的是一位中学女生在学校受到的残酷欺凌的故事，最终导致暴力的结局。书里有一个类似吸血鬼的邪教组织，但并不涉及超自然力量。
Asked about it, Braffet said she never made the connection. “Carrie” influenced her “only in the same way that every other horrifying high-school story I’d heard was sort of simmering in my subconscious.” To write any kind of page-turner is to run up against the likelihood of overlap with King’s work: there are only so many dramatic scenarios to which he has not turned his imagination over the course of 40 years.
当被问到两本书的类似时，布拉菲特说她并没有想到这一点。《魔女嘉莉》对她的影响“跟其他以中学为背景的恐怖故事没什么不同，它们都在我的潜意识里若隐若现”。任何作家如果想写一本引人入胜的小说，都要冒着和金的某部作品雷同的风险：在他纵横40年的写作生涯中，金的想象力创作出了太多的戏剧化场景。
It was important to Braffet, until now, that she publish without her in-laws’ having so much as read her work, so that she had plausible deniability should people hint that Stephen played a hand in publication. With “Save Yourself,” she finally turned to the Kings for advice, when she worried that she had lost her way. “I had no choice,” she said. “I’d already imposed on all my other readers.” Tabitha provided structural advice; Stephen, some notes on language. Mostly they told her to keep going. And no, she maintained, she was not particularly nervous. “It was more important to me that Owen like my work,” she said.
布拉菲特出书前都不会让她的公婆先睹为快，免得其他人话中有话说她出书得到了金的帮助。在创作这本新书的过程中，她一度担忧自己失去了方向，最终还是征求了公婆的意见。“没办法，”她说，“其他读过手稿的人我都打扰过了。”塔碧莎给了她结构上的建议，斯蒂芬写下了一些关于语言的意见。他们更多地是给她鼓励。布拉菲特说她并不担心书会不成功：“对我来说更重要的是欧文喜欢我的作品。”
JOE
乔
For the most part, Joe and Owen King got along well: two brothers, five years apart, who entertained themselves with “Star Wars” action figures and role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons and the more obscure Call of Cthulhu. But Joe had one habit that got under Owen’s skin. “I can remember being 8, and eventually everything had to stop so he could write for two hours,” Owen recalls. It did not matter if Owen was perched on the edge of slaying some imaginary monster, his brother was off: “Gotta get my two hours in.”
乔比欧文大五岁。在大部分时间里，兄弟俩相处得都还不错。小时候，他们会一起玩《星球大战》(Star Wars)里的人偶；分别扮演《龙和地下城》(Dungeons & Dragons)和已经不太流行的《克苏鲁的呼唤》(Call of Cthulhu)这类游戏中的角色。但是乔有一个习惯却让欧文耿耿于怀。“记得在我8岁的时候，乔会突然停止游戏，因为到了他每天写作两小时的时间了，”欧文回忆道。乔不会在乎弟弟正要手刃一只想象中的怪兽，不论玩得多么入戏，他都会停止游戏：“我得去把那两小时写完。”
Joe was 11, a kid in love with his Sherlock Holmes-style deer-stalking cap, when he first started writing daily. Following his father’s equally compulsive example, he made no exception for weekends or holidays. By high school, Joe was serious enough about his literary ambitions that he was already worrying about getting out from under his father’s shadow. He came up with the pen name Jay Stevenson (a pun on “J., Stephen’s son”) and started asking his parents: What would it take to change my name legally?
乔在11岁时开始了这个每天写作的习惯。那时他特别喜欢带着一顶福尔摩斯式的猎鹿人的帽子。乔继承了父亲的强迫症倾向，他规定自己在假日和周末也不能例外。当读中学的时候，乔已经开始严肃看待自己的文学理想。他担心自己不能摆脱父亲的影响。他为自己起了个笔名叫杰·斯蒂文生（Jay Stevenson，“J·斯蒂芬的儿子”的谐音——译注），并开始问他的父母怎样才能合法改名。
He attended Vassar College, then moved to New Hampshire and started writing full time, under the pseudonym Joe Hill. “I was very insecure, and I didn’t want to sell something because someone saw it as a way to make a quick buck and then have it come out and someone would say it was terrible,” Hill says. He signed with a New York agent, from whom he concealed his actual identity for eight years. (Over that time, they never met in person.) If he gave a reading and a blogger noted that he bore an uncanny resemblance to a young Stephen King, Hill privately requested that the blogger remove the reference. He spent several years on a novel, which was universally rejected. Years passed. A second novel went nowhere. His parents financially supported him, his wife and his first two children, never once suggesting that he might want to re-examine his options. (He and his wife are divorced.)
他在瓦尔萨学院（Vassar College，美国知名的文理学院——译注）读书，毕业后搬到了新罕布什尔，开始用乔·希尔(Joe Hill)的笔名全职写作。“我非常不自信，”他说，“我不想仅仅因为某些人（因为我父亲的原因）觉得我的书能赚一笔就草率出书，但在出版后却遭到恶评。”他与一位纽约经纪人签了代理合同，并在接下来的八年里向这位经纪人隐瞒了真实身份（在那些年里，他们根本就没有见过面）。如果他参加一个朗读活动，而事后有博客写到他的长相与年轻时的斯蒂芬·金惊人地相似，乔会私下里联系博主请求他把这句话删掉。乔花了几年时间写一本小说，但却没人想出版。又有好几年过去了，第二本书的进展也不顺利。他的父母给了他、他的妻子和他们的头两个孩子经济援助，却从来没有向儿子建议重新考虑他的职业选择（乔和妻子已离婚）。
And then finally, in 2007, at 35, Hill published “Heart-Shaped Box,” a ghost story with an aging rock star as its hero, a novel less schematic than many of his father’s books, more dreamy. Firmly grounded in celebrity culture, unpredictable both in form and plot, the book was almost immediately a best seller.
终于，在2007年，乔出版了《心形盒》(Heart-Shaped Box)。这是一个以一位上了岁数的摇滚明星为主人公的鬼故事。这本小说不像他父亲的许多作品那样脉络分明，而是有一种梦幻般的色彩。这本书根植于名人文化，形式和内容都令人耳目一新，出版后马上就成了畅销书。
At times in his life, Hill actually contemplated hiring an actor to do readings of his work, to conceal that unmistakable resemblance to his father. By the time “Heart-Shaped Box” was published and he had forged ahead with some readings, his alias had been blown. In the end, in light of the book’s success, that did not seem to matter; now he’s comfortable writing in a genre his father dominates. “Sometimes I think the kid who’s like, ‘I’m never going to be like my dad in any way whatsoever,’ is less his own person,” he said.
在他写作生涯的各个阶段，乔曾多次考虑要不要雇个演员替他出席朗读活动，因为他和父亲长得实在太像了。《心形盒》出版前，他参加了不少朗读活动，他的身份也已暴露。不过《心形盒》这么成功，乔不再在乎继续隐瞒身份。父亲是写恐怖悬疑小说的大腕，和父亲写同一类型的作品乔觉得没什么不妥。“有的子女会想：‘我永远不要和父亲有任何方面的类似，’”乔说，“有时我觉得这么想的人可能更没有自我。”
His acclaim brought different stresses. “I think the pressure of that success resulted in some anxieties picking up,” Hill said. At its worst, about five years ago, while he was writing his second novel, “Horns,” Hill’s anxiety crossed into something more like classic paranoia. “I would do stuff like get to a hotel room and tear the room apart looking for fiber-optic video cameras — I once took my car apart.” He developed other compulsions: he could not stop working if a sentence ended on an odd count of letters; he missed appointments because he made so many trips back home to make sure he had turned off the oven.
他的成功带来了不同的压力。“成功的压力使我的焦虑症状重新抬头，”乔说。他的焦虑症最严重的时候是在五年前，当时他在写他的第二本小说《犄角》(Horns)。他的焦虑症变得像是典型的狂想偏执症。“我会在住旅馆的时候把房间翻个底朝天寻找监视我的光纤摄像机。有一次我把我的车给拆了。”他开始表现出其他强迫症症状：在没有写到偶数字数的句子前不能休息；有他时常不能按时赴约，因为他会在半路多次折回家查看烤箱有没有关上。
Hill suspects that those tendencies are another inheritance from his father, along with the compulsion to write and a fascination with the macabre. Stephen King is uneasy about the number 13, which is not something he puts on simply to charm the press (asked to donate $13,000 to bring home some Maine troops for the holidays in 2009, he donated, instead, $12,999). He is compulsive about certain kinds of counting. He has concocted a mind-numbing game that involves continually resetting his car’s odometer while crossing out numbers in a notebook. And “ravens freak him out, crows freak him out a little bit,” Joe says. “They’re harbingers of death. My mom is more like the family reality check — I learned the oven stuff from him.”
与不可压抑的写作欲望和对恐怖事物的迷恋一样，乔怀疑他的这些强迫症症状都是从父亲那儿遗传来的。斯蒂芬·金对13这个数字的恐惧，不仅仅是为了让媒体有料可写（2009年，有人向他募捐1.3万美元，以赞助一些在阿富汗的驻军战士们回缅因州与家人团聚过圣诞节，结果金捐了12999美元）。他坚持用某种方法计数。他还设计出了一种让人摸不着头脑的游戏：当他的汽车里程计到了某个数值后，他会不断地把它归零，并划去笔记本上的一个个数字。“他还害怕渡鸦，乌鸦他也有点怕，”乔说，“它们是死亡的使者。我母亲是家里头脑最清醒的人——回家关烤箱那些事情是我从父亲那儿学来的。”
Hill’s most recent book, “NOS4A2” (pronounced Nosferatu), features an immortal villain who whisks children off to a hellishly jolly Christmasland. The book is filled with details so troubling they border on nauseating: implied sexual violence, a mentally impaired reprobate, desperate messengers of doom. To marvel at how deftly he disturbs is to wonder how talent — and this particular talent — passes from father to son.
乔的最新作品《NOS4A2》（英文发音同“诺斯费拉图”[Nosferatu]，吸血鬼的别称——译注）主人公是一个永生不死的坏蛋。他把小孩子们诱拐到一个欢闹却淫邪的圣诞乐园。书里充满了让人不安甚至是作呕的细节：点到而止的性暴力，一个精神不正常的恶棍以及绝望的毁灭使者。制造恐惧不安是乔的拿手好戏，可以想像儿子是如何从父亲那里继承到这一才能的。
King and Hill have a way of turning questions about the roots of their dark imaginations into opportunities to sound more wholesome and sane than the person posing the query. In a recent interview with Terry Gross, King joked about how journalists inevitably try to turn into “Dr. Freud and put me on the couch,” then confessed to a happy childhood. Hill, too, seemed, at first, to think the investigation is pointless. “I wonder why no one looks at an engineer and thinks, What was it in his childhood that made him want to be an engineer?” But Hill eventually conceded that something about his particular mental makeup did lend itself well to his subject matter — and it seemed he had thought about that subject quite a lot. “I’ve had a lot of practice spinning paranoid scenarios in fiction — which means I’m good at spinning paranoid scenarios in my own life,” he told me. “It’s a chicken-or-egg situation: Which came first? Is fiction and creating scenarios a way of getting rid of that anxiety? Or is it the practice of writing that has made me more vulnerable to the panic attack?”
当被问到他们黑暗想像力的源泉是什么的时候，金和乔的回答都会使他们听上去比提问者更加健康正常。最近在一次接受NPR主持人特丽·格罗斯(Terry Gross)的采访时，金开玩笑说记者们总是想充当“弗洛伊德的角色，让我躺在长椅上（对我进行精神分析）”。然后他告诉格罗斯，自己有一个相当愉快的童年。一开始乔也觉得这种询问没有意义。“为什么没有人看到一个工程师的时候会想，‘他童年到底发生了什么导致他长大后成了一个工程师？’”但是最终乔还是承认，他独特的思维方式对他恐怖小说的写作有帮助——似乎他仔细考虑过这个问题。“在小说里，我编造出了许多充满偏执狂特征的情节——这意味着在现实生活里我也非常在行想象这样的场景，”乔对我解释道，“这是一个鸡生蛋还是蛋生鸡的问题：谁引发了谁？小说创作和设计这些场景是我摆脱现实生活中焦虑的途径吗？或者是写作让我变得更容易惶恐不安？”
A low dose of Paxil has kept Hill’s paranoia in check, as he wrote on a post on his Tumblr account, which he titled “Took Off My Crazypants.” His writing is not suffering, and he is enjoying success. And unlike his father, he said, “now I don’t really care about the number 13.”
在Tumblr网站上发表的一篇名为《脱掉我的百衲裤》(Took Off My Crazypants)的文章里，乔写到，小剂量的帕罗西汀使他的焦虑症得到控制。现在他写作顺心，并享受成功的乐趣。而且不像他的父亲，“我不太在乎13这个数字，”乔说。
TABBY 
塔比
In 2003, Stephen King won the Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters and was invited to give a speech at the National Book Awards. King spent close to the first half of the lengthy speech celebrating his wife for always believing in him, for encouraging him to write, even when they were scraping by in a trailer home with two kids and she was working at Dunkin’ Donuts and he did shifts at a laundry. You could develop the impression that Tabitha — Tabby, as she’s known — was the stand-by-your-man type, a wife who would graciously defer to the dreams of her husband at the expense of her own comfort. That may all be true. But after seeing her with her family, I came away with the strong sense that if she encouraged King to keep going, it was because she was no fool — she had editorial judgment and knew good writing when she saw it. They were both students at the University of Maine in 1969 when King handed her a short story to read. “I remember thinking,” she recalled, “This guy’s publishable right this second.”
2003年，斯蒂芬·金获得了美国文学杰出贡献奖章(Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters)，并获邀在美国国家图书奖(National Book Awards)颁奖典礼上致辞。他的演讲洋洋洒洒，前面一大半都是在感谢妻子对他的鼓励支持。塔碧莎从来没有放弃对丈夫才华的坚信，哪怕是当初他们带着两个孩子住在一个拖车里，塔碧莎在邓肯甜甜圈连锁店、金在洗衣店打工，一家人勉强度日的时候。你可能会觉得塔碧莎——大家都叫她塔比(Tabby)——是一个站在丈夫身后，为了帮助丈夫实现梦想而任劳任怨，默默奉献的妻子。这种印象可能有道理。但是在与她和她的家人相处了一段时间后，我有一种强烈的感觉：塔碧莎是个聪明人，她对丈夫的鼓励是基于她良好的文学修养——她对文字的好坏有精准的判断。1969年他俩都是缅因州大学的学生，当时金把自己写的一个短篇给她过目。“我记得当时就想，这个家伙已经有了出版发表的水准，”塔碧莎回忆道。
One of Tabby’s favorite T-shirts reads, “If I’m speaking, you should be taking notes,” and frequently, her family members do. “When I wrote ‘NOS4A2,’ I wrote a really bleak ending, and I was artistically committed to it, come hell or high water — right up until Mum read it,” Joe said, sitting at the table with his family. “She said, ‘You know, Joe, that ending really won’t do.’ I was like, ‘Aww, all right.’ My artistic integrity lasted about 15 seconds on the phone with my mum.”
塔碧莎一件心爱的T恤上写着“我说话，你就该记笔记”。她的家人的确经常是这样做。“当我写《NOS4A2》时，我写了一个非常凄凉的结局，”与家人在桌边围坐的乔说，“这结局当时就是我的艺术理念的体现，下刀山上火海我都不会改。但是妈读了以后对我说：‘呃，乔，这个结尾可行不通。’而我当时就说：‘噢，好吧。’在与母亲的电话对话中，我的艺术理念只坚持了15秒钟而已。”
The feedback goes both ways. “And when you wrote ‘Survivor,’ Tabby, we all ganged up on you about the ending in that book,” Stephen recalled.
对作品的反馈是双方向的。“塔比，你写《幸存者》(Survivor)的时候我们都不喜欢你最初的那个结尾，”金回忆说。
“Yeah, and the changes made it a best seller,” Tabby joked, then blew a loud raspberry. The book came and went, although Library Journal called it a “compelling psychological drama,” a book that “belongs in most fiction collections.” Tabby, who is slowly working on her ninth book, clearly feels ill served by the publishing industry, so much so that she encouraged Joe to use a pseudonym. “The perception that Steve’s success got me published cannot be erased for some people,” she said. The assumption, natural though it may be, is misguided: a trilogy of novels she wrote set in Maine — “Pearl,” “The Book of Reuben” and “One on One” — is pure narrative pleasure (the author Jennifer Weiner said “Pearl” was one of her all-time favorite reads). It may have been her husband’s shadow that held her back, or it may have been the same problems that hold back many midlist writers — work that falls between literary and comedy, novels with no gimmicks or glamorous locations. That her books aren’t better known pains her sons, both of whom consider her influence on their work as strong as that of their father’s. “At least, I hope that’s true,” Owen says. “Her sense of place, her sense of character — it’s just so strong.”
“是啊，我修改了后这书就成了畅销书了呢，”塔碧莎开玩笑地说道，然后大声咂了咂舌头。事实上，这书出版后并没有给人们留下太深的印象，尽管《图书馆杂志》(Library Journal)说它是一本“扣人心弦的心理小说，有资格编入任何一类小说选集”。塔碧莎的第九本作品仍在缓慢的创作中。很显然塔碧莎觉得出版业对自己不公平，她因此鼓励乔用笔名发表作品。“我的书能出版是沾了斯蒂芬的光——一些人就是抹不去这个印象，”她说。其他人可能也会自然而然地这么想，但是这却与事实相去甚远。她以缅因州为背景的小说三部曲——《珍珠》(Pearl)、《鲁本之书》(The Book of Reuben)、《一对一》(One on One)，给读者带来了叙事上的享受。（作家詹妮弗·维纳[Jennifer Weiner]说《珍珠》是她最喜爱的作品之一）。塔碧莎没有那么大的名气，这可能是因为她丈夫。但是更多的原因是塔碧莎与其他一直在畅销榜中间位置徘徊的作家们有共同的特点：他们的作品介于文学和喜剧之间，没有什么噱头，故事也不是发生在什么时髦的地点。塔碧莎的儿子们对母亲作品没有获得更大的盛誉而感到不平。他们俩都说母亲的作品和父亲的作品一样对他们影响深刻。“至少对我来说是这样的，”欧文说，“她对地域、对人物的把握理解都非常准确。”
If Tabby does occupy something of a saintly status in the King household, it is not just because she stood by her husband when he was young and desperate, but because she threatened to walk away, years later, when he was famous and a full-blown alcoholic with a coke habit. In 1987, Tabby staged an intervention that all three children — Naomi, then 17, Joe, 15, and Owen, 10 — attended. All Owen knew until that point was that his father “consumed massive amounts of alcohol — but I might as well have assumed that everybody’s dad did that.” Tabby explained to all of them that if their father did not agree to get sober, she would ask him to leave. “I didn’t want to lie to my kids,” she said. “I’ve never really gotten lying anyway, because all you do is postpone the day at which you’re revealed to be a liar.” As the family discussed the intervention all these years later, the conversation grew almost hushed. “It was terrifying,” Naomi said. “Are you going to have a dad anymore?”
如果说塔碧莎在金家有着圣洁的地位的话，那这不仅仅是因为她在丈夫年轻潦倒的时候一直给予他支持，而是因为在多年以后，她的丈夫功成名就，却变成了酒鬼，并且沾染了毒瘾的时候，塔碧莎威胁说要离开他。1987年，塔碧莎和丈夫进行了一次正式谈话，娜欧米当时17岁，乔15岁，欧文10岁，他们都在场。欧文说谈话之前他只知道爸爸“喝很多酒——但我以为别人的爹都是这样的”。塔碧莎跟他们解释说，如果他们的父亲不同意戒酒戒毒，那她将把他赶出家门。“我不想对孩子们撒谎，”她说，“我从来也没有撒过谎。因为你的所做所为不过是在拖延你的谎言被揭穿的那天到来。”如今这家人在谈论到多年前的那次谈话时都压低了声音，“真是可怕，”娜欧米说，“我当时就想，‘难道我要没有爸爸了吗？’”
It took about two years, but King finally did get sober. Then there was a period of calm, until 1999, when King ran up against a series of near-tragic events. While walking down a country road near his home, he was hit by a van that tossed him 14 feet and reduced the bones in his lower left leg “to so many marbles in a sack,” in the words of one doctor. In chronic pain for months of recovery, he developed (and eventually kicked) an addiction to the painkillers. And finally, he came down with pneumonia, checking into the hospital within 24 hours of the speech he gave toasting his wife at the National Book Awards. “The pulmonologist wasn’t sure he’d get through the night, but that’s just what he did,” Tabby said. “I’ve told him, I’m not doing that again. It was just too hard.”
金花了两年时间才摆脱酒瘾。之后生活重归平静，直到1999年，一系列厄运降临在金的身上。有一天，当他走在离家不远的一条乡间小道时，一辆面包车撞到了他，把他掀起14英尺高，造成金的左腿下半截粉碎性骨折——用一位医生的话说，骨头碎得像“一袋子弹珠”。在恢复期，金为了减轻长达好几个月的疼痛，吃止痛片上了瘾（他最终戒掉了）。后来，他又得了肺炎。就在国家图书奖颁奖典礼致辞感谢妻子后不到24小时，他被送进了医院。“肺脏专家都不能确定他是否能挺过那一晚，但是他熬过来了，”塔碧莎说，“我跟他说，这种事再也不要发生了，我实在承受不住这种惊吓。”
There was a moment during the interview when one of the King children was talking about a book, and Stephen turned toward his wife and took her hand. He grasped it, tightly, and they both closed their eyes and leaned in toward each other, as if in prayer. Later, when asked about that moment, Stephen could not remember what inspired that moment — maybe nothing at all. “Sometimes I just take her hand,” he said. “We’ve always been close, Tab and me. I love her.”
采访的过程中，金的某个儿子说起了一本书。这时，金转向妻子，握住了她的手。他紧攥着塔碧莎的手，两个人都闭上了眼睛，靠向对方，就好像在共同祈祷一样。之后我问金是什么触动了这一温情一刻。金说他不记得了，可能并没有什么原因。“有时我就会去握着她的手，”他说，“塔碧莎和我从来就很亲密。我爱她。”
NAOMI
娜欧米
It is an odd twist of fate that Stephen King’s first child, Naomi, was born with a chronic deficit of the hormone adrenaline. She grew, over time, to be an avid reader, but the power of her father’s books was lost on her, as terror, she believes, is a hard emotion for her to access. So her father asked her, when she was a teenager, what it was that she did like. She told him she liked dragons, and her father wrote her a book, “The Eyes of the Dragon,” a fantasy tale complete with an evil, conniving magician in the king’s palace. He dedicated the book to her.
斯蒂芬·金的第一个孩子娜欧米一出生就患有慢性肾上腺素分泌不足症，这真是命运的一个奇怪的曲折。年岁渐长，娜欧米也成了一位爱书之人。但是父亲的书却对她没有多大的吸引力。她说恐怖这种情感对她来说很难理解。在她十来岁的时候，父亲问她到底喜欢什么。娜欧米告诉父亲她喜欢龙。于是金就写了《龙之眼》(The Eyes of the Dragon)，这是一个奇幻故事：在国王的宫殿里，有一个邪恶而诡计多端的魔术师。金把这本书题献给了女儿。
As a young girl, long before she met the Kings, Braffet used to stare at that dedication. “And I remember thinking to myself, Wow, Naomi King’s life must be awesome,” Braffet recalled at the Kings’ kitchen table. Naomi responded, with the same light sarcastic tone her mother employs to great effect, “Every minute.”
在布拉菲特还是少女，还没有认识金的家人的时候，她会盯着这书的献词：“我记得那时我会想：‘哇，娜欧米·金的生活可太棒了，’”坐在金家厨房桌边的布拉菲特回忆到。“是啊，没有不棒的时候，”娜欧米回应到。她的语气有点轻微的讥讽。她的母亲也擅长使用这种语气。
The advantages of being a King are, of course, considerable, and the family is close; but there were also the difficult years of Stephen’s addiction, years Naomi was old enough to recognize as painful. And then there are the assumptions people have about her as the offspring of Stephen King. “There’s the expectation that I love horror as a genre or that I care about monsters,” she said. “And I do care about monsters — I care very much about theological interpretations of how we make friends with our monsters. If we demonize other people and create monsters out of each other and act monstrous — and we all have that capacity — then how do we not become monsters ourselves?”
成为金家的一员，好处是显而易见的。这家人关系密切，相亲相爱，但是也有艰难时日。斯蒂芬与酒瘾毒瘾抗争的那些年，娜欧米已经懂事，足以体会到痛苦。作为斯蒂芬的孩子，人们对她有各种各样期盼。“人们会觉得我一定喜欢恐怖小说这一文学类型，他们也会认为我一定喜欢妖魔鬼怪，”她说，“我倒是很在乎妖魔鬼怪，但是我在乎的是神学如何解释为什么我们会与我们内心深处的妖孽交往。如果我们把别人妖魔化，把彼此当成妖魔，并暴虐地对待彼此——我们每个人都有做这种事的潜能——那我们自己怎么能不变成妖魔鬼怪呢？”
Naomi sounds, maybe, like what Stephen might sound like if, in some alternate universe, he entered divinity school to become a minister, as Naomi did in 1999. It was uncharted territory in the King household. “I truly can’t imagine a more secular family than ours,” Owen said. But Naomi maintains that religion was always there: Tabitha’s family was Catholic, and Stephen, who grew up with devoutly Christian family members, used to win prizes at Sunday school for reciting Bible verses. “I’m not sure you can grow up with those stories without them influencing you and making their way into your everyday speech,” Naomi says. And then, of course, the presence of A.A. in their home was its own kind of influence, if not a religious one, then a spiritual one.
娜欧米的话听上去颇有金的风范。如果在另外一个世界里，斯蒂芬自己进了神学院，成了一位牧师的话，这些话从他嘴里说出也不足为奇。娜欧米在1999年进了神学院，后来担任神职。宗教在金家是个新的领域。“我不能想象有比我家更世俗的家庭了，”欧文说。但是娜欧米却坚称家里的宗教传统：塔碧莎来自于一个天主教家庭；斯蒂芬的家人是虔诚的基督徒，他小时候参加主日学校，并因为熟背《圣经》篇章而获得奖励。“你熟读这这些圣经故事成长，它们深深影响着你，潜移默化着你日常的言语，”娜欧米说。当然，接触“匿名戒酒/戒毒会”对斯蒂芬也产生了一种影响。这种影响可能算不上是宗教上的，而更多是一种精神上的影响。
If Naomi is at peace with her choice, the family still seems to be mulling why she did not pursue fiction. “I think possibly Naomi has been more intimidated by the production of fiction than you guys were,” Tabitha said, meaning Joe and Owen. “She made a deliberate choice to find her own area.”
娜欧米对她的职业选择处之泰然。而她的家人却直到现在仍想弄明白她为什么没有尝试小说创作。“我想可能是娜欧米比你们更畏惧虚构创作，”塔碧莎说，她指的是乔和欧文，“她有意识地选择了自己的领域。”
Stephen added: “But you know you were always good — she was always good. She wrote fantasy when she was a kid and into her teenage years, and it was all terrific stuff. It just needed some seasoning.”
斯蒂芬接过话：“但是，娜欧米，你知道自己一直写得不错——她一直写得不错。从几岁到十几岁，她写了好多奇幻故事，都是很棒的东西。只不过还需要一些打磨。”
Naomi sighed — the encouragement was well intentioned but misplaced. “I have different stories, and those are the ones I tell. It’s just a different genre.” There are the stories she communicates to readers through her online ministry. There are also the stories she creates through sock monkeys costumed as adventuring pirates, whose exploits she creates and then documents on her Flickr account. “It’s about play, and it’s totally congruent with who I am as a religious leader,” she said, “but that isn’t what people have been taught to think.” Like every other member of her family, she has stories in her life, and they sustain her.
娜欧米叹了一口气。父亲这种好意的鼓励用错了地方。“我现在创作、讲述别的故事，只不过它们不是小说，”她说。她指的是自己在网上布道时与读者分享的故事。她还用袜子做成猴子，把它们打扮成探险的海盗。她把猴子海盗的冒险故事拍下来，放到她的Flickr账户上。“这很好玩，还完全和我的宗教导师的身份相称，尽管人们可能觉得我的方式有点不大正统。”和她的其他家人一样，娜欧米生命中的故事使她得以自立。
Although she writes daily prayers that she posts on Facebook and her blog, Naomi’s ongoing health problems have made a full-time ministry impossible. She now works at the Pietree Orchard, a shop and property near her parents that they purchased in 2007, rather than see it converted to condominiums.
娜欧米每天都在她的Facebook和博客上更新祈祷文，但是她的健康状况却使她无法成为一个全职的牧师。她现在在派瞿果园工作，那是一个商铺加住处。这处产业离她父母家不远，是他们在2007年买下的，他们保留了原样，而没有把它改建成公寓。
She likes her work, and although she also reads widely, she has never secretly hoped that a 600-page zombie novel will spring from her mind. There is an old Hasidic tale Naomi likes to share, about an aged scholar named Zusya. One after the next, his students approach him, concerned that they might not be measuring up to greatness. Why, one asks him, am I not more like Jacob? Why, asks another, am I not more like Moses?
娜欧米非常享受她的工作。虽然她阅读涉猎甚广，但是私下里她从来也没有指望过自己能编出一本600页关于僵尸的书。她喜欢与人分享一个古老的犹太教哈西德派的传说。这故事讲的是年迈的哈西德派学者如斯亚(Zusya)。他的学生纷纷向他倾诉，他们担心自己不能成为伟人。“为什么我不能更像雅各？”一个学生问道。而另一位则问自己为什么不能更像摩西。
Naomi smiled as she narrated the ending: “When I die, I’m not going to be asked why I wasn’t like Moses,” Zusya tells them. “I’m going to be asked why I wasn’t like Zusya.”
在讲故事结尾的时候娜欧米面带微笑：“如斯亚告诉他的学生：‘在我临终前，不会有人会问我为什么不能更像摩西一点。’人们会问：‘你为什么不能更像如斯亚？’”
It was a good story. She told it well.
这是个不错的故事。娜欧米讲得也不错。
OWEN 
欧文
Owen’s first novel, “Double Feature,” opens with a young man awakening abruptly from a dream: “A shadow grew, grew and grew, its mountainous shoulders overwhelming the bright frame.” The young hero panics. His pulse “was in his fingers and his toes, behind his eyes, under his tongue. He was afraid.” Then the shadow speaks: it is the son’s father; he has read the son’s screenplay; he wants to share some notes.
在欧文的小说《连场电影》(Double Feature)开头，一个年轻人忽然从梦中醒来：“一个黑影变大，变大，再变大，它那山岳般的双肩占据了整个明亮的屏幕。”年轻的主人公恐慌起来，他的脉搏“在他的手指中、脚趾中、眼球后、舌头下跳动，他害怕了。”忽然，那个黑影开始说话了。他是年轻人的父亲，他读了儿子的剧本，想分享一些体会。
That one page — with its slapstick nod to the anxiety of influence, to the literary shadow that might well be on readers’ minds — is as close to writing actual horror as Owen King ever gets. He is not drawn to the genre; by the time he was 10, he had been exposed, he felt, through his father’s films, to enough maggot-infested corpses and severed heads to leave him “a little bit squeamish.” “Double Feature” feels more Nick Hornby than Stephen King, tracing the story of an ambitious indie filmmaker — the son of a well-known B-movie actor — whose pet project becomes a cult classic for all the worst reasons.
小说的第一页以闹剧般的手法点明了对父亲影响力的焦虑，那个“文学的黑影”简直说出了读者的心里话——但欧文的作品对恐怖的描写仅止于此。他对恐怖题材并无好感；按他自己的话说，他到了十岁大的时候，就已经在父亲作品改编的电影中看到了太多的爬满蛆虫的尸体和砍掉的头颅，对恐怖题材已经“有些敬而远之了”。《连场电影》更像尼克·霍恩比（Nick Hornby，英国著名作家，文笔诙谐幽默——译注）的作品，而不像父亲斯蒂芬·金。它讲述了一位志向远大的独立电影制片人——一位知名B级电影演员的儿子——的得意之作，如何误打误撞地成为一部小众经典片。
Owen insists that any resemblances in the book to anyone living or dead is purely coincidental, unless that person is Orson Welles. But the emotional architecture seems clearly modeled on something familiar from his own home. “I think the particulars are completely different,” says his friend Tom Bissell, a cultural critic, “but it is about influence and feeling somehow trapped by that influence. And I think in some wonderful ways the book is an escape act — he did it.”
欧文强调说，这部小说的人物纯属虚构，若有雷同，纯属巧合，唯一可能借鉴的现实人物只有奥森·威尔斯（Orson Welles，1915-1985，美国著名导演、制片人——译注）。但是，这部充满情感的作品很显然与他自己的家庭颇为相似。“我觉得具体情节完全不同，”他的朋友、文化评论作者汤姆·比赛尔(Tom Bissell)说。“但小说讲述的是（成功父亲的）影响力及其所造成的情感困境。我认为，这本书如同一场绝佳的逃脱秀——他终于成功了（逃出了父亲的阴影）。”
Tabby has sympathy for her children’s desires to stake out their own territory but also feels that their burdens are hardly unusual. “Everybody’s got parents, and they carry something from that,” she told me. “Sometimes it’s the children of a doctor dealing with: Is dad ever home or is he too demanding? Or else you’re the child of the town drunk or the town minister. You’re the child of somebody who has cast some sort of a shadow over your life, from whom you have to differentiate yourself.”
塔碧莎能够理解孩子们试图闯出自己的天地，但她也认为家庭影响的包袱算不上特别。“人人都有父母，每个人从父母那里继承些包袱。”她对我说道，“医生的子女会抱怨父亲经常不在家，或对子女过于苛刻；镇上醉鬼或是牧师的子女，也有自己的包袱。你的父母总会对你的人生投下某种阴影，你总要努力做到与父母不同。”
Owen spent years watching B-movies as research for the book and is known among his friends for being the kind of person who will forever be capable of naming them all, while cross-referencing their third-string stars with those actors’ other, even more obscure works. His brother and father also share that skill. “The King men seem able not only to read and write and allude faster than the rest of us — they seem to watch TV faster, listen to music faster, to defy the physics of consumption,” says Joshua Ferris, a novelist and close friend of Owen’s. Of the two brothers, Joe is the more enthusiastic fanboy — picture him unironically wearing his favorite “Jaws” T-shirt, because “Jaws” is one of his four favorite movies. Owen’s favorite T-shirt ever, by contrast, was for a defunct girls’ magazine and read, “Jane: Everything Great About Being a Girl.” He wore it to meet Kelly’s parents for the first time.
作为这本书的背景研究，欧文看了好几年的B级电影，朋友们都知道他总是能认出任何一部B级片，甚至知道每部电影中的每一位三流演员还演过什么更没名气的片子。他的父亲和哥哥也有这种不同寻常的能力。“金家的男人们似乎不但比其他人读得更快，写得更快，更快地旁征博引——他们似乎看电视也更快，听音乐更快，简直违背了文化消费的常理，”欧文的好朋友，小说家乔舒亚·费里斯(Joshua Ferris)说。两兄弟中，乔更加热诚地崇拜父亲——如果他穿着“大白鲨”的T恤，可不会有任何嘲讽的意味，因为《大白鲨》(Jaws)的确是他最喜欢的四部电影之一。相比之下，欧文最喜欢的T恤衫主题是一本已经停刊的女性杂志，上面写着“简：做女孩的好处”。他第一次见凯莉父母的时候穿的就是这件T恤衫。
Like Joe, Owen, as a young boy, often sat down with his father to talk about books — in his case, to deconstruct what made a Flannery O’Connor story work or to find the ways he could make his own writing more vivid. He enjoyed these sessions, but not because he already had some idea that he wanted to be a writer. “It was something I’d seen my dad do with my brother, and I sort of wanted to feel included,” he told me. As much because of temperament as subject matter, Owen’s current relationship with his father is less intensively collaborative than that of Joe, who gets feedback on all his drafts from both parents and frequently calls to talk shop. “I have a much more typical relationship with my parents,” Owen said. “I’m looking for unconditional love from my parents. I’m not particularly interested in getting heavy literary criticism from them.”
和他的哥哥一样，年少的欧文经常和父亲一起探讨书籍和写作。他们会分析弗兰纳里·奥康纳（Flannery O’Connor，美国女作家——译注）的某个故事为什么会成功，或是探讨欧文怎样才能使自己的写作变得更生动。欧文很喜欢这些讨论，但这并不是因为他已经知道自己想成为一个作家。“我看到哥哥和父亲的谈话，加入进来使我有一种归属感，”他对我解释到。可能与他的性情有关，欧文和父亲的关系不像乔与父亲的关系那样以工作为重。乔的每一个手稿都要征求父母的意见。他还经常打电话和父母探讨作品。但是欧文说他与父母的关系更传统：“从父母那儿我希望得到的是无条件的爱。我不是特别想要从他们那儿听到严肃的文学批评。”
On one public occasion, he got it anyway. His father, in an interview with this magazine in 2000, casually characterized Owen’s early work as “flavor-of-the-month, New York relationships.” Owen was angry at the time, but he is easy on his father now, even protective. “Yeah, that wasn’t the greatest,” he said. “My dad felt really bad. But that was a long time ago, and what I do has become easier for my parents to understand.” His father apologized, and Owen, who was getting his M.F.A. at Columbia, kept writing. While he was there, on two occasions, professors at Columbia extravagantly dismissed his father’s body of work while Owen was in the room. He learned that if he was going to write, he would have to be fairly confident that he could find his own voice, regardless of who was talking to him about what fiction should be. When Owen’s novel came out, Stephen turned his Web site into an enthusiastic ad: If you are in the mood to laugh your posterior off, he said in his own vernacular, “ ‘Double Feature’ will perform that surgery and painlessly.”
在一次公开场合，欧文还是从父亲那儿得到了批评。在与本杂志2000年的一次采访中，金有些漫不经心地评价欧文的早期作品就像“纽约的人际关系一样，只能让人保持一个月的热度”。当时欧文十分生气，但是现在他却原谅了父亲，甚至为父亲说话。“是，那确实不是什么好的评价，”欧文说，“父亲过后也觉得不该那么说。但这件事已经过去很久，我父母也已经更能理解我的作品了。”斯蒂芬·金向儿子道了歉。当时在哥伦比亚大学攻读文学艺术硕士学位的欧文则继续他的创作。在哥大读书的时候，有两次教授们在欧文在场的情况下，大谈他们对斯蒂芬·金的作品的不屑。欧文意识到，如果要想成为作家，他必须自信地找到自己的声音，而不是让别人告诉他小说应该怎么写。当欧文的小说发表后，斯蒂芬在自己的网站上热情地宣传儿子的作品：如果你想把自己的屁股笑掉——金用富有个人特色的俗语写到——“那么《连场电影》能帮你无痛地达到目的”。
Owen can live with selling fewer books than his brother or father, both of whom set unusually high standards for that metric. “I think my brother’s and father’s drive for success is greater than mine,” he said. “I just want to sell enough books to be able to justify continuing to write.” As the youngest of the siblings and the one who stayed home, rather than go to boarding school, he was exposed more often than they were to his father’s growing fame — the snapping cameras everywhere, the strangers forever approaching them. “I want to be as successful as I can be while still living a very private life,” he said, “and I think my ambition is probably a little bit limited by that desire.”
父亲和哥哥的书销量很好，要在这一点上想超越他们非常困难。欧文接受了这一事实。“我对成功的渴望不像我的父亲和哥哥那样强烈，”他说，“我只想卖出足够的书好让我有理由继续创作。”作为小儿子，欧文没有去上寄宿学校，而是留在了家里。他更多地见证了父亲渐长的名气所带来的影响：走到哪儿都有人拍摄，永远都会有陌生人想要跟他们套近乎。“我也想成功，但是不希望名气会影响我的私生活，”欧文说，“可能这种想法限制了我的抱负。”
His brother, by contrast, embraces the public’s attention. He recently posed for a series of photos in which he pantomimed being strangled and stabbed by fans, then posted them on Twitter. Owen admired the project but could not relate to the impulse. “I don’t want to be choked by a stranger,” he said. “Not even pretend choked.”
相比之下，乔更享受公众的关注。最近他在Twitter上发布了一组照片，模仿被粉丝勒死或是捅死的样子。欧文举得这个项目好玩，但表示不理解哥哥的这种冲动：“我可不想被陌生人勒死，”他说，“哪怕要我假装也不成。”
STEPHEN
斯蒂芬
On the Fourth of July, the extended King family gathered at the Pietree Orchard and ate pizza on the picnic benches outside the shop. Some of the grandchildren had gone strawberry picking; later there would be fireworks. Stephen King, sitting on a picnic bench, turned to his 10-year-old grandson. “So if I had a stroke,” King asked him, “what do you think I should do? Should I go into a nursing home? Would that be the best thing?”
在7月4日这一天，金家几代人齐聚派瞿果园。他们坐在店铺外的野餐长椅上，吃着披萨。几个孙子孙女中有人去采草莓了。晚些时候还会放烟火。坐在野餐长椅上的斯蒂芬·金转向他十岁的孙子问道：“如果我中风了，你觉得我应该怎么办？去疗养院吗？那会是最好的选择吗？”
The questions were both matter of fact and macabre — a late-in-life version of what the family called the writing game, in which they would each take five minutes to rescue some hero from peril, only to place him once again in danger before passing the challenge on to the next family member. This is the kind of plot twist that most haunts King now: illness, dementia, the loss of his uncommonly active mind.
金的家人会玩一种写作游戏。每个参加者有五分钟的时间描述他们怎么使主人公脱险，然后把他投入另一危险之境，让下一位参加游戏的家人把他“解救”出来。斯蒂芬的这些问题属于这一游戏的“临终版”。这些残酷的问题也是金在现实中将要面对的：疾病、痴呆，以及丧失他那异乎常人的活跃思维——这些就是金现在考虑最多的情节转折。
A few minutes later, he was eager to share an image he had on his iPad. He whisked past pictures — his grandchildren, trees, whoops, there goes Meg Ryan — and then there was a black-and-white photo: a smiling woman sitting on the knee of a merchant mariner. “Those were my parents,” he said. His father abandoned the family when King, the younger of two children, was 2, but when King was about 10, he stumbled upon his father’s stash of old pulp novels. It was Stephen’s first introduction to horror — among the finds there was “Lovecraft,” with a cover of a monster crawling out of a grave. Either because he is his father’s son or because he was a son seeking out his father — King believes it’s the first of those options — he was immediately obsessed, reading every book in the collection and seeking out more wherever and whenever he could. His father, his mother told him, wrote stories, good ones, too, and although he did not stick with it, some magazine editors had encouraged him. The subtext of King’s personal narrative would seem to be that of a child trying to please an absent father, as loudly and successfully as he can. King, however, sees it as a matter of simple genetics. So the fact that his sons, in turn, would be writers, that one of them might even write horror, is therefore wholly predictable to King. “I do think it’s built in,” he said. “You know, sometimes people say to me, ‘Why do you choose to write that creepy stuff?’ And I usually say, ‘What makes you think I have a choice?’ ”
过了几分钟，金说有一张照片想给我看。他划过了iPad上的一张张照片——他的孙子孙女、各种树、欢呼的场面，还有一张梅格‧瑞安(Meg Ryan)的照片一晃而过。他想给我看的是一张黑白照片。照片上一位微笑着的女人坐在一位商船水手的膝上。“这是我的父母，”金说。他的父亲很早就离家出走，抛弃了他们。当时金只有两岁，他还有个哥哥。金十岁的时偶然发现了父亲留下的一堆老旧的通俗小说。其中有一本是《洛夫克莱夫》（Lovecraft，以著名恐怖小说作家霍华‧菲力普‧洛夫克莱夫为主人公的小说——译注），封面上画着一只正要从坟墓里爬出来的怪物。这是斯蒂芬第一次接触恐怖小说。可能是遗传了父亲的爱好，也可能因为潜意识里他一直在寻找父亲——斯蒂芬倾向于第一种解释——他很快就入了迷，读完了父亲留下的所有的书，并四处搜寻同类作品。斯蒂芬的母亲告诉他，他父亲也写作，而且写得不错。尽管斯蒂芬自己没有坚持这种说法，但是一些采访过他或是写过他的杂志编辑们却想要鼓励他这么做。他们关于斯蒂芬·金个人经历的文章似乎有这样一个暗含的故事：一个孩子通过获得成功和名望来取悦一位并不在他生活之中的父亲。而对金本人来说，这只是一个简单的遗传问题。所以他的儿子们也成长为作家，其中一个还是恐怖小说作家，金觉得这是意料中的。“我真的觉得这是遗传，”他说，“有时候人们问我：‘你为什么写那么恐怖离奇的东西？’我会回答说：‘我难道有别的选择吗？’”
At the guesthouse, after the group portrait was finally taken, the family started to disperse. “Did you really think that the Neil Gaiman book was — what did you call it? Something like ‘an incomparable masterpiece?’ ” Owen asked Joe, referring to a recent blog post about Gaiman’s new novel. “You like everything on Twitter — you can’t like that much stuff.”
在湖边的客屋里，当家庭合影终于拍完后，大家准备各自上路。“你真的认为尼尔‧盖曼的那本书是——你是怎么说的来着？——‘不可超越的杰作’吗？”欧文问乔。他指的是乔最近写的一篇关于盖曼最新作品的博客。“在Twitter上你会赞很多东西，但是你不可能真的喜欢那么多东西吧？”
Joe shrugged. “I’m a positive guy” he responded, “not a negative guy.”
乔耸了耸肩，回应道：“我是个积极正面的人，我不批评。”
He had proposed earlier that they gather that evening to play an old game called Ex Libris. The game, a bit like Balderdash, would have them all competing to write the most convincing first line of a randomly chosen actual novel. Somebody wondered: How old was this game?
早些时候，乔提议大家晚上玩一个叫“藏书馆”(Ex Libris)的古老游戏。这个游戏有点像“胡言乱语”(Balderdash)：大家随便挑一本小说，然后看谁能编出最能让人信服的开头。有人问到这个游戏到底有多久的历史。
“It’s as old as storytelling,” Stephen intoned.
“跟讲故事一样历史悠久，”斯蒂芬回答道。
“Yeah, the very first Irish balladeers were playing this game,” Owen said. That got a laugh from his dad, so he kept going. “The Gilgamesh guy was playing this game.”
“对，第一批爱尔兰民歌手就已经在玩这个游戏了，”欧文说。这个回答把他父亲逗笑了，所以他接着说道：“写《吉尔伽美什》（Gilgamesh，美索不达米亚史诗——译注）的那个家伙也玩这个游戏。”
Joe, who had been strenuously trying to turn the conversation back to the rules of Ex Libris, joined in. “They were playing at the Alexandria library,” he said. “As it burned.”
乔一直努力地想把话题转回“藏书馆”的游戏规则。他接过话：“亚历山大图书馆烧掉的时候他们还在玩这个游戏呢。”
It went on like this for a few minutes. Naomi made a reference to an obscure ancient manuscript depicting beer, Owen cracked a joke about pulps in Mesopotamia.
关于游戏的对话持续了几分钟。娜欧米提到了一份鲜有人知的描述啤酒的古代文献，欧文接着说了一个关于美索不达米亚“酒糟”（古代美索不达米亚是有记载最早酿造啤酒的地区——译注）的笑话。
“In the Old West — ” Joe started.
“在从前的西部———”
His father suggested, not unkindly, that they wrap up the conversation. Maybe they would play the game some other time. After lunch, Owen and Kelly wandered down toward the lake with Joshua Ferris and his wife, who were visiting. Stephen and Tabby went back to their primary summer home. And Joe headed inside with the book he had been carrying around all day, a galley his dad gave him of another author’s horror book.
乔正要开始，但他们的父亲却和善地提醒他们结束对话——以后也许有机会玩这个游戏。午饭后，欧文，凯莉和来访的乔舒亚‧费里斯(Joshua Ferris)夫妇朝着湖边走去。斯蒂芬和塔比回到了他们的夏日度假屋。乔拿着一本他一天形影不离的书回到了屋子里。这书是父亲借给他的另一位恐怖小说作家的作品清样。
A few days later, Joe and Stephen were having another typical conversation: hashing out what novel could be considered the “Moby-Dick” of horror.
几天后，乔和父亲又聚到了一起，他们讨论着哪部作品可以被称做为恐怖小说中的《白鲸》(Moby-Dick)。这样的对话对父子来说再平常不过了。
That one with all the footnotes, they argued — no, not that one, the other one: Mark Danielewski’s “House of Leaves.”
那本有好多注解的——不，不是那本，是另外一本，马克‧丹尼尔卢斯基(Mark Danielewski)的《叶之屋》(House of Leaves)——父子俩争论道。”
Joe bragged that his youngest son, who is 10, was doing some writing of his own. “He’s working on two stories: one is called ‘Scrap’; the other is called ‘The Bad Thing.’ ”
乔炫耀地说自己十岁的小儿子正在写东西：“他在写两个故事。一个标题是《只言片语》(Scrap)；另一个他起名为《坏东西》(The Bad Thing)。”
Stephen brightened: he liked that, “The Bad Thing.” “I’m sorry,” he said, as if he had just found someone else’s shiny penny, “I might have to use that.”
斯蒂芬脸色一亮，他喜欢《坏东西》这个名字。“对不起，”他说，口气就好像是捡到了别人的一块闪闪发光的硬币，“我可能会用到这个标题。”
Joe understood. “I know,” he said. “I had the same thought myself.”
乔一点也不奇怪：“我知道，”他说，“我也有同样的想法。”