MOSCOW —  On very rare occasions, almost always at night, Edward J. Snowden leaves his secret, guarded residence here, somewhere, in Russia. He is always under close protection. He spends his days learning the language and reading. He recently finished “Crime and Punishment.”
莫斯科——只有在非常罕见的场合下，爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)才会离开位于俄罗斯某地的戒备森严的秘密住所，而且几乎都是在晚上。他每时每刻都处于严密保护之下。他用学习语言和阅读度日，最近刚刚读完《罪与罚》(Crime and Punishment)。
Accompanying him is Sarah Harrison, a British activist working with WikiLeaks. With far less attention, she appears to have found herself trapped in the same furtive limbo of temporary asylum that the Russian government granted Mr. Snowden three months ago: safe from prosecution, perhaps, but far from living freely, or at least openly.
陪伴他的是维基解密(WikiLeaks)的英国活动人士莎拉·哈里森(Sarah Harrison)。虽然得到的关注少很多，但看起来她也被困在了这种偷偷摸摸的混沌状态里，躲在俄罗斯政府三个月前核发给斯诺登的临时庇护之下：被起诉？可能是不用担心；但生活远谈不上自由，起码没法公开地自由活动。
Andrei Soldatov, a journalist who has written extensively about the security services, said that the F.S.B., the domestic successor to the Soviet-era intelligence service, clearly controlled the circumstances of Mr. Snowden’s life now, protecting him and also circumscribing his activities, even if not directly controlling him.
对安全机构进行过大量报道的记者安德烈·索尔达托夫(Andrei Soldatov)说，现在显然是俄罗斯联邦安全局(FSB)，也就是在本土接替苏联时期情报工作的机构，在控制斯诺登的生活环境，而且保护他的同时，也在限制他的活动，尽管没有直接地操控他。
“He’s actually surrounded by these people,” said Mr. Soldatov, who, with Irina Borogan, wrote a history of the new Russian security services, “The New Nobility.”
“他的身边其实满是这些人，”索尔达托夫说。他和伊琳娜·博罗甘(Irina Borogan)合著了一本关于俄罗斯新安全机构历史的书《新贵》(The New Nobility)。
Hints of his life nonetheless flitter in and out of the public eye. On Thursday, his lawyer, Anatoly G. Kucherena, said that Mr. Snowden had agreed to take a job with one of the country’s major Internet companies, beginning Friday. Mr. Kucherena would not disclose the company or any other details, and he declined to discuss Mr. Snowden’s life in exile “because the level of threat from the U.S. government structures is still very high,” he said in a telephone interview.
不过，有关斯诺登生活的丝缕痕迹仍不时出现在公众面前。本周四，他的律师阿纳托利·G·库切连纳(Anatoly G. Kucherena)表示，他已经同意为俄罗斯的一家大型互联网公司工作，周五入职。库切连纳没有透露公司名或任何其他细节，并拒绝谈论斯诺登的流亡生活，“因为美国政府机构的威胁仍然很严峻，”他在电话采访中说。
“He’s free, but he’s not completely free,” said Ray McGovern, a former C.I.A. official and a member of the Sam Adams Associates for Integrity in Intelligence, which met with Mr. Snowden three weeks ago in his only verified public appearance since he received asylum on July 31. Even those who attended were not exactly sure where the meeting took place, having been driven in a van with darkened windows.
“他是自由的，但不是完全自由，”前美国中情局官员、山姆·亚当斯情报正直协会(Sam Adams Associates for Integrity in Intelligence)成员雷·麦加文(Ray McGovern)说。三周前，他曾和斯诺登会面，那是自7月31日斯诺登接受庇护以来唯一一次经证实的公开露面。连参加了此次会面的人都不能确定具体地点，因为他们是乘坐一辆深色车窗的面包车前往的。
The possibility that Mr. Snowden might work openly here could not be verified, though the conditions of his asylum would in theory allow it, and some experts doubted the notion, given Mr. Snowden’s evident desire to keep a low profile. Other claims about Mr. Snowden’s surreptitious life here — his whereabouts, his social activities, even his dating — are unsubstantiated. Nonetheless, interviews with those who have met with him here have provided some clues to an unintended life in exile in a country that was not his intended destination when he fled the United States.
目前无法证实斯诺登是否存在公开在俄罗斯工作的可能性，虽然从他的庇护条件看，理论上是可行的。一些专家对此表示怀疑，因为斯诺登显然希望保持低调。其他一些关于斯诺登在此地的隐秘生活的说法——他的行踪、社交活动，乃至约会——都是不可靠的。不过，访问那些曾和他见面的人还是能提供一些线索，让我们对他这段意外的流亡生活有了一些了解。当初逃离美国时，他并没有想过以这个国家为目的地。
Aside from Mr. Kucherena, a bearish man who has handled many prominent cases here, Mr. Snowden’s main conduit to the world and the efforts to challenge the extent of American eavesdropping has been Ms. Harrison, a trusted lieutenant of WikiLeaks’ founder, Julian Assange.
除了库切连纳这个在俄罗斯经手过许多著名案子的暴躁男人，在和外界联络并与美国人的全面窃听行动对抗时，斯诺登依赖的主要渠道是哈里森。她是维基解密创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)信赖的副手。
She arrived with Mr. Snowden on a flight from Hong Kong in June that left them unintentionally stranded in a transit zone at Sheremetyevo International Airport in Moscow. When Mr. Snowden received permission to stay in Russia, despite intense American pressure, she was photographed with him as they left the airport and climbed into a taxi, headed for the underground existence they have since managed to maintain.
今年6月，她陪同斯诺登离开香港，飞抵莫斯科的谢列梅捷沃国际机场，却意外地被困在了转机区。后来，俄罗斯顶着美国的巨大压力允许斯诺登留下。媒体拍到哈里森和斯诺登一同走出机场，钻进一辆出租车，开始了一段持续至今的地下生活。
It was through Ms. Harrison and WikiLeaks that the members of the Sam Adams Associates organized their meeting with Mr. Snowden — possibly, though not certainly, here in Moscow — to present an award to him for his leaks.
山姆·亚当斯协会与斯诺登的会面是通过哈里森和维基解密安排的——可能就在莫斯科，但也不一定——协会要颁发一个奖项给他，以表彰他的泄密行动。
In an interview with The New York Times conducted by encrypted email and published two weeks ago, Mr. Snowden declined to discuss his life here, except to say that he had not taken any of the secret National Security Agency documents with him to Russia, that he was not under the control of the Russian government, and that he was free to move about.
《纽约时报》曾通过加密电子邮件对斯诺登进行过采访，并于两周前发表相关文章。访问中，斯诺登拒绝谈论他在当地的生活，只是说自己前往俄罗斯时并没有携带任何国家安全局(National Security Agency，简称NSA）的机密文件，并且他并没有处在俄罗斯政府的控制之下，是可以自由活动的。
Those who have seen him in Russia say Mr. Snowden appears aware of the gravity of the situation he has created, but also at peace with his choice to disclose secrets.
在俄罗斯和他见过面的人说，看起来斯诺登知道他所引发的事态的严重性，但是没有对自己的揭秘行为感到什么不安。
His father, Lon Snowden, who visited him recently, said he was working “to try to normalize his life.” His son, he said, had no interest in writing a book or otherwise seeking monetary gain from the disclosures. He said he did not know if his son would soon begin working, as Mr. Kucherena said.
他的父亲朗·斯诺登(Lon Snowden)最近来看望过他，说他正在“努力让自己的生活正常起来”。朗还说，儿子没有写书的打算，也无意利用揭秘来挣钱。至于斯诺登是否会像库切连纳说的那样在短时间内开始工作，他表示不清楚。
“He is safe, secure and happy,” the elder Mr. Snowden said, “and committed to the choice he made.”
“他现在安全、稳定、开心，”老斯诺登说，“他对自己的选择很坚定。”
Even so, he said he knew very little about his son’s life in Russia and would not discuss what he did know in detail. “The story isn’t really about him at this point,” he said.
尽管如此，他还是表示，对儿子在俄罗斯的生活知之甚少，也不打算详细说他都知道些什么。“事到如今，其实他并不是重点，”他说。