You can fall down a very deep rabbit hole just pondering the list of names to whom Stephen King dedicates “Revival,” his second skin-crawler published this year. (“Mr. Mercedes” arrived in June.) Some, like Bram Stoker and H. P. Lovecraft, are familiar. Others, like August Derleth, the author of more than 100 books that Mr. King must have devoured as a boy and a seminal figure in the creation of Lovecraft’s Cthulhu Mythos horror genre, are so far out of the mainstream that they can prompt long, dreamy voyages of discovery.
想着斯蒂芬·金(Stephen King)在《复活》(Revival)中的题献名单，你会感觉自己就像是掉进了一个深深的兔子洞；这是他今年的第二本惊悚小说，第一本是6月出版的《梅赛德斯先生》(Mr. Mercedes)。这本书有些地方就像是布拉姆·斯托克(Bram Stoker)与H·P·拉夫克拉夫特(H. P. Lovecraft)，令人感觉熟悉。有些地方则像是奥格斯特·德莱斯(August Derleth)，这位作家曾写过100多本书，金小的时候肯定狼吞虎咽地读过；也有点像拉夫克拉夫特的克鲁苏神话恐怖小说里一个重要的创造人物，偏离于主流之外，可以为读者带来一场漫长而梦幻的发现之旅。
By all means look up Robert Bloch or Derleth if you’d like to have more insight into what shaped Mr. King’s young imagination. But don’t do it until his new book, tenderly realistic despite its roots in horror and science fiction, has had its way with you. And steer clear of the ageless 1890 short novel that Mr. King says inspired “Revival” if you don’t want to kill its chances of scaring the hell out of you.
不管怎样，如果你想追溯金年轻时的想像力如何形成，可以在罗伯特·布洛克(Robert Bloch)或德莱斯的书里找到答案。但一定要仔细读过金的新书再来这样做，它植根于恐怖小说和科幻小说，略带现实主义，如果你不想错过这本书令人毛骨悚然的效果，也不要先读金口中《复活》的灵感来源——那篇1890年的著名短篇小说。
Mr. King has the wind at his back again. He hit the doldrums with “Doctor Sleep” (2013), his sequel to “The Shining.” And “Duma Key” (2008) seemed to have more to do with his spending time in the part of Florida the book describes than with any burning need to tell a story. But the trifecta of “Joyland” (2013), “Mr. Mercedes” and now “Revival,” the best of the bunch, finds him writing with the infectious glee that has always been at the heart of his popular success. How many writers have a biography that can begin something like this: “Stephen King is the author of more than 50 books, all of them worldwide best sellers.”?
金又一次大步走在了前面。2013年，他为《闪灵》(The Shining)撰写的续作《睡眠医生》(Doctor Sleep)非常沉闷。2008年的《杜马岛》(Duma Key)似乎同他在佛罗里达度过的时光有关——这本书对佛罗里达的描述远远超出了故事发展的需要。但新的三连发——2013年的《快乐园》(Joyland)、《梅赛德斯先生》和现在的《复活》都是最精彩的作品，让人感觉他是带着有感染力的欢乐写作，这种欢乐贯穿在他最受欢迎的成功作品核心。有多少作家能在履历里像他这样写呢——“斯蒂芬·金创作了50多本书，全都在全球畅销”。
Happily, he no longer confuses big books with long ones. He does not ramble on, as he did with “Dreamcatcher” and “Duma Key,” which at 600-plus pages each both seemed endless. “Under the Dome,” his best behemoth of recent years, might have been 1,074 pages, but each one was worth it. “Revival” is much shorter, but it, too, is a well-built book that unfolds on a big canvas. It spans much of the lifetime of Jamie Morton, a Maine boy who is roughly Mr. King’s contemporary. It has a small cast of characters and a length to suit that. The book begins by comparing a person’s life to a movie, so that the leading characters are family and friends; supporting players are neighbors and acquaintances; bit players are walk-ons. But there are also wild cards. And they break all the rules.
幸亏，他不再把“重大作品”和“长篇作品”混为一谈。他不再像在《捕梦网》(Dreamcatcher)和《杜马岛》一样缓慢叙事，这两本书都有600多页，好像永远也读不完。《穹顶之下》(Under the Dome)是他近年来最好的长篇巨著，大约有1074页，但每页都很精彩。《复活》就短多了，但这也是一本精心构思的书，展开了一幅宏大的画面。贯穿了缅因州男孩杰米·莫顿(Jamie Morton)的大部分人生，他基本上是金的同辈人。书中人物很少，长度也与之相符，开头把一个人的一生比作电影，主角是家人与朋友；配角是邻居和熟人；经历过的人是龙套。但也会有出其不意的情节，打破所有规则。
“Revival” begins so benignly that Mr. King must warn the reader to watch out for Jamie’s perpetual nemesis, a kindly clergyman calling himself the Rev. Charles Jacobs. The year is 1962. Jamie is 6, playing with soldier toys during the Cuban Missile Crisis, when the Reverend stops by to introduce himself. He invites Jamie’s family to attend his Methodist church and also has Jamie visit his garage to see the toys he has been inventing. The Reverend loves electricity. Using a photoelectric cell, he’s built a model of what he calls Peaceable Lake and a miniature Jesus who can walk on water.
《复活》有一个这样亲切的开头，金只得警告读者，当心杰米的天敌，一个自称查尔斯·雅克布斯牧师(Rev. Charles Jacobs)的善良牧师。1962年，杰米6岁，在古巴导弹危机期间玩着士兵玩具。牧师来到他身边坐了自我介绍。他邀请杰米一家加入自己的卫理公会教堂，还带杰米参观自己的车库，看他发明的玩具。牧师喜欢电学，用光电管建造了一个名为“和平湖”的模型，还有一个小型基督像，可以在水面上行走。
Jamie is smitten; so is the Reverend, who is madly in love with his beautiful wife and little son. But three years later there is trouble in paradise: the Reverend’s experiments have taken a turn toward miracle cures, and he dares to suggest that electricity is more powerful than God. The Mortons adore him for having restored the voice of Jamie’s older brother after a terrible accident involving a ski pole — but nobody knows exactly what happens over the long run to people cured by the Reverend after he has run electrical currents through them. And then, the worst possible bolt from the blue: A terrible accident takes the Reverend’s wife and child from him and turns him into a different man.
杰米被迷住了；深爱着自己漂亮妻子和小儿子的牧师本人也是如此。但是三年后，天堂里出现了烦恼：牧师的实验开始转向奇迹治疗术，他大胆提出，电比上帝还要强大。莫顿的哥哥曾在一场与滑雪杖有关的事故中失去声音，是牧师治好了他，莫顿一家人非常崇拜他，但牧师给人治疗的时候，总是用一道电流通过病人身体，没有人知道在之后的漫长治疗过程中发生了什么。之后最糟糕的事情如晴天霹雳般降临：一场可怕的事故夺去了牧师的妻子与儿子的生命，把牧师变成了另外一个人。
Raging and heartbroken, he gives a blasphemous but honest sermon that shakes the faith of all who hear it. And then he vanishes. Years go by; Jamie becomes a teenager in love, a rock musician and a drug addict. In a section of the book that seems written from intact and swooningly romantic memory, Mr. King summons the sensations of first sexual lightning that will never leave the heart and soul. Charles Jacobs is gone, and yet weirdly present, since Jamie and his teenage lover meet for trysts on the mountaintop most likely to be hit by electrical storms.
愤怒而悲痛的牧师做了一次亵渎上帝但却非常诚实的布道，听者的信仰都受到了动摇。后来他就消失了。几年后，杰米成了一个恋爱中的青少年，搞摇滚乐，还吸毒。书中这一部分仿佛是根据完美而迷离的浪漫回忆写成的，金说，第一次性觉醒的感觉永远不会离开心灵与灵魂。查尔斯·雅克布斯走了，但当杰米和他的年轻恋人在山巅约会时又仿佛奇异地在场，两人差点被暴风雨中的雷电击中。
In the 1990s, their paths cross when Jacobs crops up in Tulsa with a new name, Dan Jacobs, new cynicism and new occupation: flimflam man at state fairs. He cons audiences with electricity-based magic tricks, and he’s figured out that this is a good way to continue his scientific experiments. Since Jamie is by now a raging addict and Dan is able to cure him, Jamie is forever in the debt of someone he knows to be a man of bad faith. Jamie, like Mr. King (as he has said in recent interviews), wants to believe in a higher power, especially as an ex-addict who could not conquer drugs without that higher power’s help.
到了90年代，他们再次相遇，雅克布斯改名丹·雅克布斯出现在塔尔萨市，一幅愤世嫉俗的样子，有了新职业——在博览会上骗人为生。 他用电学魔术花招欺骗观众，觉得这是继续自己科学实验的好办法。杰米如今已成为严重的瘾君子，丹可以治疗他，杰米一直都怀疑自己认识的某人不诚实。杰米和金一样，愿意相信更高的力量（这是金在近期的访谈中说的），更何况杰米还曾经是一个瘾君子，没有更高力量的帮助，很难战胜毒瘾。