STOCKHOLM — Edward Snowden was among the winners Wednesday of a Swedish human rights award, sometimes referred to as the "alternative Nobel," for his disclosures of top secret surveillance programs.
斯德哥尔摩——爱德华·斯诺登因揭露政府机密情报活动，周三被授予一个瑞典人权奖项，有“诺贝尔奖替代奖”之称的“正确生活方式奖”。
The former National Security Agency contractor split the honorary portion of the 2014 Right Livelihood Award with Alan Rusbridger, editor of British newspaper The Guardian, which has published a series of articles on government surveillance based on documents leaked by Snowden.
这位前美国国家安全局承包商雇员和英国《卫报》编辑艾伦·拉斯布里杰(Alan Rusbridger)一同获得了2014年“正确生活方式奖”的荣誉奖。《卫报》发表了一系列基于斯诺登披露的文件写成的关于政府监控的文章。
The 1.5 million kronor ($210,000) cash award was shared by Pakistani human rights activist Asma Jahangir, Basil Fernando of the Asian Human Rights Commission and U.S. environmentalist Bill McKibben.
150万瑞典克朗（21万美元）的奖金由另外三名获奖者分得。他们是：巴基斯坦人权活动家阿斯玛·嘉罕吉尔(Asma Jahangir)、亚洲人权委员会的巴斯尔·费尔南多(Basil Fernando)和美国环保人士比尔·麦克奇本(Bill McKibben)。
Created in 1980, the annual Right Livelihood Award honors efforts that prize founder Jacob von Uexkull felt were being ignored by the Nobel Prizes.
“正确生活方式奖”创立于1980年，每年颁发一次，表彰创始人雅各布·冯·于克斯库尔(Jacob von Uexkull)认为被诺贝尔奖忽略了的杰出人物。
Foundation director Ole von Uexkull — the award creator's nephew — said all winners have been invited to the Dec. 1 award ceremony in Stockholm, though he added it's unclear whether Snowden can attend.
该奖项的总监、创始人的侄子奥利·冯·于克斯库尔(Ole von Uexkull)说，所有获奖者已经受邀参加12月1日在斯德哥尔摩举行的颁奖典礼，但他又说，不清楚斯诺登是否能参加。
"We will start discussions with the Swedish government and his lawyers in due course to discuss the potential arrangements for his participation," von Uexkull told The Associated Press.
“我们将在适当的时候开始与瑞典政府及他的律师的讨论，商讨他参与的可能安排，” 冯·于克斯库尔向美联社表示。
Snowden, who has reportedly also been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, remains exiled in Russia since leaking top secret NSA documents to journalists last year. He has been charged under the U.S. Espionage Act and could face up to 30 years in prison.
据称也被诺贝尔和平奖提名的斯诺登自其去年将美国国家安全局高级机密文件泄密给记者后，一直流亡于俄罗斯。他已被控违反美国间谍法，可面临长达30年的刑期。
The announcement had been set for Thursday but it was communicated early after a leak to Swedish broadcaster SVT. Also, the foundation had been denied access to the Swedish Foreign Ministry's media room, where it has announced the awards since 1995, von Uexkull said.
公告本预计周四发出，但在被泄漏给了瑞典电视台之后，被提早传达。同时，该基金会还被瑞典外交部新闻发布室拒之门外——基金会自1995年起就在该发布室公布奖项，冯·于克斯库尔说。
He said the ministry cited security concerns but added that he believed the decision was linked to the fact that Snowden was among the laureates.
他说外交部称此举是出于安保顾虑，并补充说他认为该决定与斯诺登是获奖者之一有关。