MOSCOW — Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency analyst who fled to Russia last year after releasing reams of secret American government documents, has applied to extend his temporary asylum, his lawyer was quoted as telling Russian news agencies on Wednesday.
莫斯科——周三，俄罗斯新闻机构报道，披露大量美国政府机密文件后逃到俄罗斯的国家安全局(National Security Agency)前分析师爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的律师表示，他的客户已经提交了延长临时庇护期的申请。
Anatoly G. Kucherena, the lawyer, said that he had asked the Moscow branch of the Federal Migration Service to permit Mr. Snowden to remain in Russia after his initial one-year asylum expires on July 31.
斯诺登的律师阿纳托利·G·库切连纳(Anatoly G. Kucherena)称，他已提请俄罗斯联邦移民局(Federal Migration Service)的莫斯科分局允许斯诺登在为期一年的最初庇护期于7月31日失效后继续留在俄罗斯。
“We have submitted documents for extending his stay in Russia,” Mr. Kucherena was quoted as saying by Interfax.
俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引库切连纳的话说，“我们已经提交了相关文件，希望延长他在俄罗斯的停留时间。”
The decision by Russia to grant Mr. Snowden asylum last year was a major source of tension with Washington, prompting President Obama to cancel a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin. It was one of a series of events, including the annexation of Crimea in March, that brought ties between Russia and the United States to their lowest point since the Soviet Union disintegrated in 1991.
俄罗斯去年决定为斯诺登提供庇护的决定成为了莫斯科与华盛顿矛盾的一个主要来源。奥巴马总统还因此取消了与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的一次会议。除此以外，俄罗斯今年3月还吞并了克里米亚。一系列此类事件驱使俄美关系达到了自苏联1991年解体以来的最低点。
Mr. Snowden’s lawyer avoided spelling out the grounds for the application, saying the Russian government would ultimately determine that.
斯诺登的律师拒绝阐明申请理由，表示俄罗斯政府将作出最终决定。
“I will not say for now under which status we would like to get this extension, because the decision rests with the Federal Migration Service,” he said.
他说，“我现在不会说出我们希望延长庇护期的依据，因为决定应由联邦移民局来做。”
Mr. Snowden, 31, fled the United States last summer and was charged with espionage and theft of government property. His supporters call him a hero, while critics label him a turncoat.
31岁的斯诺登去年夏天逃离美国，被控从事间谍活动，以及盗取政府资产。斯诺登的支持者称他是英雄，而批评者则把他当作叛徒。
He ended up in Russia almost by accident in June of last year. Seeking to travel from Hong Kong to Latin America, he was transiting through Moscow when the United States revoked his passport.
去年6月，斯诺登在俄罗斯落脚，但这几乎纯属偶然。他试图从香港前往拉丁美洲，准备在莫斯科转机的时候，美国撤销了他的护照。
Little about Mr. Snowden’s daily life in Russia has been revealed, but he has reportedly been seeking to move to another country, particularly Ecuador or Brazil. However, he risks being sent to the United States for trial if his plane is forced down in a country that has an extradition treaty with Washington.
没有多少关于斯诺登在俄罗斯的日常生活的消息传出，但据称，他一直试图前往另一个国家，特别是厄瓜多尔或巴西。然而，如果斯诺登乘坐的飞机在与美国签署有引渡协议的国家迫降，他有可能被遣送回美国。