RIO DE JANEIRO —  Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor for the National Security Agency now living temporarily in Russia, said in comments published on Tuesday that he was prepared to assist Brazilian investigations into American spying in Brazil. But he said he could not speak freely until a country granted him permanent political asylum, which he requested from Brazil months ago.
里约热内卢——目前暂居俄罗斯的美国国家安全局(NSA)前雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)本周二在报端发布消息，称准备协助巴西政府调查美国在那里开展的间谍活动。但他表示，直到某个国家为他提供永久政治庇护之后，自己才能畅所欲言；几个月前，他曾向巴西提出过庇护申请。
Mr. Snowden, whose disclosures of N.S.A. surveillance practices have shaken Washington’s relations with an array of countries, made his comments in an “open letter” published in the Brazilian newspaper, Folha de São Paulo, in which he described the agency’s activities as potentially “the greatest human rights challenge of our time.”
斯诺登对NSA监听活动的曝光，已经给华盛顿和多个国家之间的关系蒙上了阴影，本周二，他在巴西报纸《圣保罗页报》(Folha de São Paulo)发表的一封“公开信”中谈到了自己的想法。在信中，他称NSA活动有可能是“我们这个时代对人权的最大挑战”。
Brazil, a leading target of the N.S.A.’s activities, has already reacted angrily over the spying, which included surveillance of President Dilma Rousseff, her inner circle of senior advisers and Petrobras, Brazil’s national oil company. Ms. Rousseff called off a state visit to Washington in October over the revelations of the N.S.A.’s operations in Brazil.
巴西是NSA的主要监听目标之一，针对总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)、她的核心高级顾问团、巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)的监听活动以及其他间谍行动在巴西引发了愤怒反应。NSA在巴西的活动曝光之后，罗塞夫取消了今年10月对美国的国事访问。
Since then, Brazilian legislators have pressed ahead with inquiries into spying by the United States, relying to a large degree on news reports and testimony by Glenn Greenwald, the American journalist to whom Mr. Snowden leaked N.S.A. documents. David Miranda, the domestic partner of Mr. Greenwald, who lives in Rio de Janeiro, has helped lead an effort to obtain asylum in Brazil for Mr. Snowden, who is now in Russia on a one-year visa.
自那之后，巴西立法者开始推进对美国间谍活动的调查，新闻报道和美国记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的证词是他们的重要消息来源。格林沃尔德是接收斯诺登手中NSA文件的联系人，他的伴侣戴维·米兰达(David Miranda)住在里约热内卢，一直为斯诺登在巴西获得庇护而四处奔走；目前斯诺登仅拥有俄罗斯为期一年的签证。
“He deserves thanks for what he’s done, not a life in prison,” Mr. Miranda said, referring to the legal challenges Mr. Snowden faces in the United States. Mr. Miranda has been working with Avaaz, a global human rights group, to get signatures in support of Mr. Snowden’s asylum request in Brazil.
“他应该为他做的事情应该获得感谢，而不是被关进监牢。”米兰达说，他指的是斯诺登在美国面临的法律诉讼。米兰达一直在跟全球性人权组织Avaaz合作，为斯诺登在巴西的庇护申请寻求签名支持。
In his letter, Mr. Snowden referred to the spying on Ms. Rousseff, who as president personally decides on granting asylum to foreigners, and to N.S.A. surveillance of ordinary Brazilians who may be having extramarital affairs or viewing pornography, activities that could then be used to hurt their reputations.
在这份公开信中，斯诺登提到了针对罗塞夫的间谍活动；作为总统，罗塞夫可以决定是否为外国人提供庇护。信中还谈到，NSA监听了一些可能有婚外情或浏览过色情内容的普通巴西人，而这些行为可能会被用来损害他们的声誉。
“American senators tell us that Brazil should not worry, because this is not ‘surveillance,’ it’s ‘data collection,’ ” Mr. Snowden wrote. “They say it is done to keep you safe. They’re wrong.”
“美国参议员告诉我们，巴西无需担心，因为这不是‘监视'，而是‘数据采集'，”斯诺登写道。“他们说，这样做是为了保证你的安全。他们错了。”
Mr. Snowden continued: “These programs were never about terrorism: they’re about economic spying, social control and diplomatic manipulation. They’re about power.”
斯诺登称：“这些活动从来都跟恐怖主义无关，而是跟经济间谍活动、社会控制和外交操纵有关。这关乎于权力。”
A spokeswoman for Ms. Rousseff declined to comment on Mr. Snowden’s letter and his request for asylum in Brazil, which he had sought in July, when he also requested asylum in other countries. The authorities in Brazil did not accept his request at the time.
罗塞夫的一位女发言人拒绝对斯诺登的公开信和他向巴西提出的庇护申请予以置评。7月时斯诺登曾向巴西和其他几个国家申请政治庇护，当时巴西当局没有接受他的申请。
One spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said that it was monitoring the reaction to Mr. Snowden’s letter but that it was “not suitable for the Brazilian government nor the Foreign Ministry to respond.” Another spokesman said that Mr. Snowden had not yet made an official asylum request, as his original request was made in a faxed letter without a signature.
巴西外交部一位发言人说，他们正在观察斯诺登这封公开信引起的反应，但是，“巴西外交部及其他政府部门都不便作出回应”。另一位发言人表示，斯诺登尚未正式提交庇护申请，他最初的申请是通过一封没有署名的传真提出的。
Venezuela and Bolivia have offered asylum to Mr. Snowden, but it is unclear whether their offers meet his conditions. In his letter, he referred to the refusal in July by several European nations to allow the plane of Bolivia’s president, Evo Morales, into their airspace amid suspicions that Mr. Snowden was on board.
委内瑞拉和玻利维亚已经同意为斯诺登提供庇护，但目前还不清楚这两个国家的条件是否符合他的要求。在这封公开信中，斯诺登还提到今年7月，几个欧洲国家拒绝让玻利维亚总统埃沃·莫拉莱斯(Evo Morales)的飞机经过他们的领空，因为他们怀疑斯诺登也在那架飞机上。
In Brazil, a Senate committee investigating the N.S.A.’s activities convened on Tuesday, with prominent senators expressing support for giving asylum to Mr. Snowden. In July, the Brazilian Senate’s committee on foreign relations and defense unanimously recommended granting asylum to Mr. Snowden.
周二，一个调查NSA活动的巴西参议院委员会召开会议，一些重要的参议员表示支持该国为斯诺登提供庇护。今年七月，巴西参议院外交关系和国防委员会曾一致建议为斯诺登提供庇护。
Mr. Greenwald said he supported such a move. “Millions of people in nations around the world have understandably expressed gratitude for Edward Snowden’s courageous whistle-blowing,” he said. “Each of those countries’ governments has the legal and moral obligation to protect him from the persecution to which the U.S. government is now trying to subject him.”
格林沃尔德表示，他支持这一举措。“全球数以百万计的人都对爱德华·斯诺登勇敢的揭发行动表示了感谢，这是可以理解的。”他说。“在每个遭受NSA监听的国家，政府都有法律和道德上的义务，保护他免受美国政府的迫害。”