WASHINGTON — Intelligence officials investigating how Edward J. Snowden gained access to a huge trove of the country’s most highly classified documents say they have determined that he used inexpensive and widely available software to “scrape” the National Security Agency’s networks, and kept at it even after he was briefly challenged by agency officials.
华盛顿——负责调查爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)如何获取大量美国最高机密文件的情报官员表示，他们已经确定，斯诺登凭借了廉价的常见软件来“搜刮”美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的网络，甚至在暂时遭到情报官员的质疑后仍然继续这种行为。
Using “web crawler” software designed to search, index and back up a website, Mr. Snowden “scraped data out of our systems” while he went about his day job, according to a senior intelligence official. “We do not believe this was an individual sitting at a machine and downloading this much material in sequence,” the official said. The process, he added, was “quite automated.”
据一名高级情报官员透露，斯诺登平时工作时，利用用于网站搜索、建立索引、进行备份的“网络爬虫”软件“从我们的系统中搜刮文件”。这名官员表示，“我们认为不可能是一个人坐在机器前连续下载了这么多资料。”他还表示，这个过程是“相当自动化的”。
The findings are striking because the N.S.A.’s mission includes protecting the nation’s most sensitive military and intelligence computer systems from cyberattacks, especially the sophisticated attacks that emanate from Russia and China. Mr. Snowden’s “insider attack,” by contrast, was hardly sophisticated and should have been easily detected, investigators found.
这些发现非常惊人，因为NSA的任务就包括了保护美国最敏感的军事及情报计算机系统不受网络攻击，尤其是来自俄罗斯和中国的高水平攻击。调查人员发现，相比之下，斯诺登的“内部攻击”几乎算不上复杂，应该很容易被发现。
Moreover, Mr. Snowden succeeded nearly three years after the WikiLeaks disclosures, in which military and State Department files, of far less sensitivity, were taken using similar techniques.
此外，斯诺登是在维基解密(WikiLeaks)事件发生后将近三年取得成功的。维基解密也利用了类似的技术揭露了军事及国务院(State Department)文件，但其敏感度要低得多。
Mr. Snowden had broad access to the N.S.A.’s complete files because he was working as a technology contractor for the agency in Hawaii, helping to manage the agency’s computer systems in an outpost that focuses on China and North Korea. A web crawler, also called a spider, automatically moves from website to website, following links embedded in each document, and can be programmed to copy everything in its path.
斯诺登拥有广泛权限，能够访问NSA的全部文件，因为他在NSA夏威夷基地担任技术类承包商雇员，在一个关注中国和朝鲜的前哨基地帮助管理该机构的计算机系统。网络爬虫——又称网络蜘蛛——自动从一个网站转移至另一个网站，追踪每个文件中嵌入的链接，并能够按照指令复制这一过程中的所有内容。
Mr. Snowden appears to have set the parameters for the searches, including which subjects to look for and how deeply to follow links to documents and other data on the N.S.A.’s internal networks. Intelligence officials told a House hearing last week that he accessed roughly 1.7 million files. 
斯诺登貌似设定了搜索参数，包括搜索目标，以及在多大程度上追踪NSA内部网络文件及其他数据链接。情报官员上周参加众议院听证会时表示，斯诺登获得了大约170万份文件。
Among the materials prominent in the Snowden files are the agency’s shared “wikis,” databases to which intelligence analysts, operatives and others contributed their knowledge. Some of that material indicates that Mr. Snowden “accessed” the documents. But experts say they may well have been downloaded not by him but by the program acting on his behalf.
斯诺登文件中的重要资料包括NSA共享的“维基”数据库，情报分析人员、特工及其他人都会为此类数据库提供信息。其中一些资料显示，斯诺登“获取了”这些文件。但专家表示，下载文件的很可能不是斯诺登，而是代表斯诺登开展行动的程序。
Agency officials insist that if Mr. Snowden had been working from N.S.A. headquarters at Fort Meade, Md., which was equipped with monitors designed to detect when a huge volume of data was being accessed and downloaded, he almost certainly would have been caught. But because he worked at an agency outpost that had not yet been upgraded with modern security measures, his copying of what the agency’s newly appointed No. 2 officer, Rick Ledgett, recently called “the keys to the kingdom” raised few alarms.
情报官员坚称，如果斯诺登当时是在位于马里兰州米德堡的NSA总部工作，他几乎肯定会被发现，当有人访问并下载大量数据时，那里用于监控的设备应该能够发现这一情况。但由于他所在的前哨基地还没有进行升级，采取现代化的安全举措，他在复制NSA新任二号人物里克·莱吉特(Rick Ledgett)最近所说的“通往王国的钥匙”时都没有引起什么警觉。
“Some place had to be last” in getting the security upgrade, said one official familiar with Mr. Snowden’s activities. But he added that Mr. Snowden’s actions had been “challenged a few times.”
一名了解斯诺登活动的官员表示，“一些地方不得不等到最后进行”安全升级。但他还表示，斯诺登的行动“几次遭到怀疑”。
In at least one instance when he was questioned, Mr. Snowden provided what were later described to investigators as legitimate-sounding explanations for his activities: As a systems administrator he was responsible for conducting routine network maintenance. That could include backing up the computer systems and moving information to local servers, investigators were told.
至少有一次接受质询时，斯诺登提供了后来在向调查人员陈述时被称为听起来很合理的行动解释：作为一名系统管理员，他有责任进行例行网络维护。调查人员被告知，网络维护工作可能包括为计算机系统备份，将信息转移至本地服务器。
But from his first days working as a contractor inside the N.S.A.’s aging underground Oahu facility for Dell, the computer maker, and then at a modern office building on the island for Booz Allen Hamilton, the technology consulting firm that sells and operates computer security services used by the government, Mr. Snowden learned something critical about the N.S.A.’s culture: While the organization built enormously high electronic barriers to keep out foreign invaders, it had rudimentary protections against insiders.
但从最初来到位于瓦胡岛上的陈旧的NSA戴尔(Dell)地下基地担任承包商雇员，到后来在夏威夷博思艾伦咨询公司(Booz Allen Hamilton)现代化办公大楼工作，斯诺登了解了NSA文化的一些核心内容：虽然该机构设有高级的电子壁垒防范外国入侵者，但它对内部人员只进行基本的防护。戴尔为一家计算机制造商，而博思艾伦咨询公司为一家科技咨询公司，出售和运行政府使用的计算机安全服务。
“Once you are inside the assumption is that you are supposed to be there, like in most organizations,” said Richard Bejtlich, the chief security strategist for FireEye, a Silicon Valley computer security firm, and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “But that doesn’t explain why they weren’t more vigilant about excessive activity in the system.”
“和大多机构一样，一旦你进入了内部体系，人们就会理所当然地认为你就应该在那儿，”硅谷计算机安全公司火眼(FireEye)的首席安全战略师、布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institute)高级研究员理查德·贝特利希(Richard Bejtlich)说。“但这无法解释为什么他们没对系统内的异常活动更加警惕。”
Through his lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, Mr. Snowden did not specifically address the government’s theory of how he obtained the files, saying in a statement: “It’s ironic that officials are giving classified information to journalists in an effort to discredit me for giving classified information to journalists. The difference is that I did so to inform the public about the government’s actions, and they’re doing so to misinform the public about mine.”
斯诺登通过他在美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)的律师发表了声明，但没有专门回应政府有关他如何获得这些文件的说法，他在声明中说道：“政府将加密信息交给记者，就是为了诋毁我把加密信息交给记者的做法，这很讽刺。但我们的不同之处在于，我这么做是为了让公众知晓政府的行为，而他们这么做则是为了让公众误解我的行为。”
The N.S.A. declined to comment on its investigation or the security changes it has made since the Snowden disclosures. Other intelligence officials familiar with the findings of the investigations underway — there are at least four — were granted anonymity to discuss the investigations.
对于正在开展的调查以及自斯诺登泄密以来安全措施上的变化，NSA拒绝置评。其他熟悉调查（至少有四项调查正在进行）结果的情报官员获得授权匿名讨论调查相关的情况。
In interviews, officials declined to say which web crawler Mr. Snowden had used, or whether he had written some of the software himself. Officials said it functioned like Googlebot, a widely used web crawler that Google developed to find and index new pages on the web. What officials cannot explain is why the presence of such software in a highly classified system was not an obvious tip-off to unauthorized activity.
在采访中，这些官员拒绝透露斯诺登当时使用的是哪种网络爬虫程序，也没说他是否自己写了一部分程序。官员称，斯诺登使用的网络爬虫和谷歌抓取机器人(Googlebot)运作方式类似，后者是谷歌开发用来寻找网络上的新网页并为其建立索引的软件，使用广泛。而官员无法解释的是，一个高度加密的系统中出现这样的软件，为何没被当做发生未授权行为的明显警示来对待。
When inserted with Mr. Snowden’s passwords, the web crawler became especially powerful. Investigators determined he probably had also made use of the passwords of some colleagues or supervisors.
输入斯诺登的密码后，这个网络爬虫的功能会变得特别强大。调查人员认为，斯诺登很可能也曾使用过一些同事和上级的密码。
But he was also aided by a culture within the N.S.A., officials say, that “compartmented” relatively little information. As a result, a 29-year-old computer engineer, working from a World War II-era tunnel in Oahu and then from downtown Honolulu, had access to unencrypted files that dealt with information as varied as the bulk collection of domestic phone numbers and the intercepted communications of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and dozens of other leaders.
然而，官员表示，NSA内部很少将信息“归类”的文化也为斯诺登提供了帮助。在这种情况下，一名29岁的计算机工程师——他先是在瓦胡岛上一条二战时期的隧道内工作，后来又转战到火奴鲁鲁市中心——得以获取包含各种不同信息的未加密文件，从收集到的大量国内电话号码，到截获的德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)等几十位领导人的谈话。
Officials say web crawlers are almost never used on the N.S.A.’s internal systems, making it all the more inexplicable that the one used by Mr. Snowden did not set off alarms as it copied intelligence and military documents stored in the N.S.A.’s systems and linked through the agency’s internal equivalent of Wikipedia.
官员称，在NSA内部系统中几乎从未使用过网络爬虫，这样一来就更加无法解释，为何斯诺登使用的网络爬虫未引起警觉；斯诺登利用它复制了储存在NSA系统内的情报和军事文件，并连通了该机构内部类似于维基百科(Wikipedia)的网络平台。
The answer, officials and outside experts say, is that no one was looking inside the system in Hawaii for hard-to-explain activity. “The N.S.A. had the solution to this problem in hand, but they simply didn’t push it out fast enough,” said James Lewis, a computer expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who has talked extensively with intelligence officials about how the Snowden experience could have been avoided.
官员和外部专家表示，原因在于，没有人会在夏威夷的系统内寻找难以解释的活动。“NSA知道如何解决这种问题，但他们就是没有足够快地采取行动，”美国国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的计算机专家詹姆斯·刘易斯(James Lewis)说。刘易斯曾和情报官员开展过大量会谈，谈论斯诺登事件如何可以避免。
Investigators have found no evidence that Mr. Snowden’s searches were directed by a foreign power, despite suggestions to that effect by the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, in recent television appearances and at a hearing last week.
调查人员还没有发现任何证据，证明斯诺登的搜索行为受到了外国势力的主导，尽管在最近的电视节目以及上周的一次听证会上，众议院情报委员会主席、芝加哥州共和党众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)表达了这样的意思。
But that leaves open the question of how Mr. Snowden chose the search terms to obtain his trove of documents, and why, according to James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, they yielded a disproportionately large number of documents detailing American military movements, preparations and abilities around the world.
不过，斯诺登如何选择搜索关键词来获取他所收集到的大量文件，而又是为什么，按照国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)的发问，这些文件中相当大的一部分涉及了美国军事行动、军事行动准备以及全球军事力量的细节，这仍然是个谜。
In his statement, Mr. Snowden denied any deliberate effort to gain access to any military information. “They rely on a baseless premise, which is that I was after military information,” Mr. Snowden said.
在声明中，斯诺登否认他有意获取军事信息。“他们所依据的前提是认为我在追踪军事信息，这毫无根据，”斯诺登说。