WASHINGTON — Edward J. Snowden said he was not merely a “low-level analyst” writing computer code for American spies, as President Obama and other administration officials have portrayed him. Instead, he said, he was a trained spy who worked under assumed names overseas for the Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency.
华盛顿——爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)说，他不仅像奥巴马总统和其他美国政府官员说的那样，只是一名编写电脑程序的“低层分析师”。他说，他其实是一名受过训练的间谍，曾以化名在海外为中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)和国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）工作。
Mr. Snowden’s claims were made in a television interview to be broadcast Wednesday evening by NBC News. They added a new twist to the yearlong public relations battle between the administration and Mr. Snowden, who is living under asylum in Moscow to escape prosecution for leaking thousands of classified files detailing extensive American surveillance programs at home and abroad.
斯诺登是在接受电视采访时说出这番话的，NBC新闻频道(NBC News)将于周三晚间播出这期节目。奥巴马政府与斯诺登已经进行了长达一年的公关战争，这些言论又为这场战争增添了新的曲折。目前，斯诺登正在莫斯科享受政治庇护，以逃避因泄露数以千计的机密文件而来的指控。这些机密文件详细叙述了美国在国内外的庞大窃听项目。
“I was trained as a spy in sort of the traditional sense of the word in that I lived and worked undercover overseas — pretending to work in a job that I’m not — and even being assigned a name that was not mine,” Mr. Snowden told Brian Williams of NBC News, in an excerpt released in advance of the full interview.
“我接受过间谍训练，某种程度上就是传统意义上的间谍，因为我曾在海外以掩护身份生活和工作——假装从事一份子虚乌有的工作——有关部门甚至给了我一个不属于我的名字，”斯诺登如是告诉NBC的布莱恩·威廉姆斯(Brian Williams)。这番话来自提前播出的访问选段。
The N.S.A., which has described Mr. Snowden as an information technology contractor, has not commented on the new claims. But Secretary of State John Kerry, in a CBS News interview on Wednesday, suggested that Mr. Snowden’s refusal to return to the United States amounted to cowardice.
NSA之前称斯诺登是一名信息技术承包商雇员，目前尚未对斯诺登的新说法置评。但美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在周三CBS新闻(CBS News)的采访中表示，斯诺登拒绝返回美国的做法反映了他的怯懦。
“The bottom line is this is a man who has betrayed his country, who is sitting in Russia, an authoritarian country, where he has taken refuge,” he said. “He should man up and come back to the United States if he has a complaint about what’s the matter with American surveillance, come back here and stand in our system of justice and make his case. But instead he is just sitting there taking potshots at his country, violating his oath that he took when he took on the job he took.”
“事情的实质是，这个人背叛了他的祖国，目前正躲在威权主义国家俄罗斯享受庇护，”他说。“如果他对美国的监听项目感到不满，那就应该鼓起勇气回到美国，通过我们的司法系统陈述自己的理由。可他只是躲在哪里，肆意抨击他的祖国，背叛他接受工作时立下的誓言。”
Mr. Snowden suggested that the government was deliberately playing down his role as a spy.
斯诺登暗示，美国政府是在刻意淡化他的间谍身份。
“They’re trying to use one position that I’ve had in a career here or there to distract from the totality of my experience,” he said.
他说，“他们试图渲染我事业生涯中的某份工作，好让人们忽略我的完整经历。”
Mr. Snowden said, however, that he had not been the kind of spy depicted by Hollywood who embeds himself in glamorous overseas locations to extract information through interpersonal connections.
但斯诺登表示，他不是好莱坞电影中那种置身异国美景，通过人际关系获取信息的间谍。
“I am a technical specialist,” he said. “I am a technical expert. I don’t work with people. I don’t recruit agents. What I do is I put systems to work for the United States. And I’ve done that at all levels from — from the bottom on the ground all the way to the top. Now, the government might deny these things, they might frame it in certain ways and say, ‘Oh well, you know, he’s a low-level analyst.’ ”
“我是一名专业技术人员，”他说。“我是个技术专家。我不与人打交道。我不招募特工。我要做的是使系统为美国服务。我的工作涉及各个级别，从最底层一直到最高层。如今，美国政府可能会否认这些事情，可能会以这样那样的方式扭曲事实，然后就说，‘好吧，他只是一个低级别的分析师。”
According to government officials and former colleagues, Mr. Snowden first went to work as a security guard at an N.S.A.-financed language research center at the University of Maryland. His computer skills evidently attracted attention, and he subsequently worked overseas for the C.I.A. in Geneva and for N.S.A. contractors in Japan, Maryland and Hawaii before flying to Hong Kong last year and handing secret N.S.A. documents to several journalists.
政府官员及前同事透露，斯诺登起初是在马里兰大学(University of Maryland)由NSA资助的语言研究中心担任保安。他的电脑技能明显受到关注，后来便在日内瓦为中央情报局(CIA)工作，又在日本、马里兰及夏威夷为NSA的承包商工作，最后于去年飞往香港，将NSA的保密文件交给了几名记者。
According to his résumé and interviews, he worked in cyber-counterintelligence, searching classified government computer systems looking for intrusions from hackers and foreign spies. In his last job in Hawaii, he was described as an “infrastructure analyst,” which former N.S.A. officials say probably meant that he was looking for vulnerabilities in foreign telephone and Internet systems that would allow the agency to tap in.
斯诺登的简历及相关采访显示，他曾从事网络反间谍工作，在保密的政府电脑系统中搜索黑客及外国间谍入侵的迹象。在夏威夷的最后一份工作中，他的头衔是“基础设施分析师”。一些前NSA官员称，这个头衔可能意味着他的工作是寻找外国电话及网络系统的漏洞，以便NSA进行窃听。