Rosie’s General Store serves breakfast all day, and it’s the type of place where residents of this town of 1,140 will stop in to buy lottery tickets, a loaf of bread or the special jumbo lobster roll. It’s also the inspiration for the Sweetbriar Rose, a diner in Stephen King’s 2009 opus about a small town cut off from the outside world by a mysterious and impenetrable dome.
罗西杂货店全天供应早餐，这样的店铺正是小镇上1140名居民购买彩票、面包或者特大号龙虾卷的地方。也是在这家店，史蒂芬·金(Stephen King)产生了灵感，创作出了自己2009年小说中的一位用餐者：斯维特布莱尔·罗斯(Sweetbriar Rose)。这部小说讲述的是一个被无法穿透的神秘穹顶笼罩，从而与外界隔绝的小镇。
A television adaptation of that novel, “Under the Dome,” will have its premiere on Monday night on CBS, which was why Mr. King found himself talking one day recently with the real-life Rose about the TV version of her character, one of nearly 70 in his 1,074-page doorstop of a novel. “I told you I want to be taller and thinner,” Rose McKenzie told Mr. King heartily as he ate blueberry pancakes with maple syrup.
根据这部小说改编的电视剧《穹顶之下》(Under the Dome)将于周一晚上在CBS频道首播，所以金先生前不久才和现实生活中的“罗斯”谈起她这个人物的电视版。这部长达1047页的大部头小说中大约有70个人物，罗斯也是其中之一。“我跟你说过，我想让你把我写得高一点、瘦一点，”罗斯·麦肯齐(Rose McKenzie)衷心地对金先生说，当时他正在吃蓝莓煎饼配枫糖浆。
“And through the power of narration, you are,” he assured her.
“我是把你写成那样了，”他向她保证。
After nearly 100 television and film adaptations of his novels and short stories, Mr. King is used to the Hollywood version of his characters ending up younger and more glamorous than their often-haggard literary counterparts. It’s one of those things he doesn’t try to fight. He has developed a rule about collaborating on adaptations of his work: “Usually my attitude is go all the way in or all the way out, but don’t be a noodge,” Mr. King said.
大约有100部电视剧和电影都是根据金先生的小说和短篇故事改编的，他已经习惯了好莱坞把他书中那些通常比较憔悴的人物演得更年轻、更迷人。这是他不会强求的一个方面。他已经确定了改编作品的合作原则：“通常，我的态度是要么完全介入，要么一概不管，但是不要不停地唠叨，”金先生说。
But he’s being something of a noodge about “Under the Dome.” After reading the script for a coming episode, Mr. King was concerned that in it, Jim Rennie Jr., the degenerate son of the town’s alpha male, says that he scraped his hand while cutting wood with an ax. “I said, ‘Ax and hand, really?’ ” Mr. King said. “I had them change it to hatchet.” A hatchet’s blade is closer to the user’s hand, he explained.
但是在《穹顶之下》的合作中，他似乎就在不停地唠叨。在读完下一集的剧本后，金先生对其中一点提出了质疑：该镇的领头人有个堕落的儿子，叫小吉姆·伦尼(Jim Rennie Jr.)，他说自己用斧头砍木头的时候，把手划破了。“我说，‘用斧头划破了手，不会吧？’”金先生说。“我让他们把斧头改成了短柄小斧。”他解释说，短柄小斧的刀刃离手更近。
Rather than turn the series over entirely to the producers, as he has with other adaptations to varying degrees of success, Mr. King has stayed involved, and it seems fitting. “Under the Dome” encapsulates the arc of his writing career: Started before he became a published novelist, the book was released 37 years later, when he was so renowned that the e-book version contributed to a price war.
以前金先生一直都是把改编剧完全交给制作人，这种做法取得了不同程度的成功，这一次他却没有这样做，而是一直参与其中，而且这样似乎挺合适。《穹顶之下》浓缩了他写作事业的发展：他开始写这本书的时候，还没有出版过任何作品，而37年后这本书出版的时候，他已经如此出名以致于这本小说的电子书还引发了一场价格战。
The television series won’t have much effect one way or the other on Mr. King’s reputation as a master storyteller. CBS, by comparison, has more at stake with “Under the Dome,” as it risks shaking up the reliable models for summer television and online streaming.
这部电视剧不会对金先生讲故事高手的地位有太大影响。相比之下，CBS拍摄《穹顶之下》更有风险，因为它在冒险动摇夏季电视剧和在线即时播放的可靠模式。
Not only is it unusual for a broadcast network to introduce a dramatic series in late June, but CBS has broken with network tradition by selling the exclusive digital rights to Amazon. Under the deal struck with the online retailer, Amazon Prime subscribers will be able to stream episodes of “Under the Dome” just four days after they are broadcast on CBS. The deal is the first of its kind for a broadcast network and a Web streaming service and will be a closely watched test.
在6月底推出一部紧张刺激的电视剧对广播公司来说很不常见，而且CBS还打破传统，把该剧的独家数字播放权卖给了亚马逊。根据和该网络零售商的协议，亚马逊的主要用户仅在《穹顶之下》在CBS播放四天之后就能在线观看。对广播公司和网络在线播放服务商来说，这样的协议是前所未有的，是一次将被密切关注的尝试。
Beyond reading the scripts, Mr. King has visited the set and occasionally offers advice. He mostly leaves casting, character arcs, plot development and story lines to the executive producers, who include the comic book writer Brian K. Vaughan and Neal Baer, a longtime writer on “Law & Order: SVU” and “E.R.”
除了读剧本，金先生还参观片场，偶尔提出建议。他通常让执行制片人来决定选角、人物性格发展、情节发展和故事线索。本剧的执行制片人包括漫画作家布莱恩·K·沃恩(Brian K. Vaughan)和尼尔·贝尔(Neal Baer)，后者是《法律与秩序：特殊受害者》(Law & Order:SVU)和《伊丽莎白女王》(E.R.)的长期编剧。
The television adaptation inevitably ups the visual ante. In the book, a woodchuck is split in half (“blood squirted and pumped; guts tumbled into the dirt”) as the giant dome violently descends on the fictional town of Chester’s Mill, Me.; in the TV version, a cow is severed through computer-generated effects. The Iraq war veteran and short-order cook who assumes the hero’s role in the book disposes of a dead body in the first episode, hinting at a potential murder plot, not found in the novel, that could muddy his image.
改编成电视剧难免要增强视觉冲击力。在书中，巨大的穹顶猛烈降落到虚构中的缅因州切斯特磨坊镇时，一只土拨鼠被劈成了两半（“鲜血喷射而出；内脏跌入土中”）；而在电视剧中，用电脑特效展现了一只牛被劈开的情形。在书中被设定为英雄角色的那位伊战老兵兼快餐厨师在第一集中处理掉了一具死尸，暗示着他可能谋杀了这个人，这可能会使他的正面形象沾上污点，书中是没有这个情节的。
After Mr. King downed Ms. McKenzie’s pancakes and a side of sausage, we headed to Bridgton, a nearby town that inspired the fictional Chester’s Mill. In a gray T-shirt, jeans and black sneakers, he is tall but slight at 65, as if the strong breeze that passed through the quiet town square could knock him over. The weather on this late spring day felt oddly like the sunny fall one he describes as the backdrop of “Dome Day,” which is how residents of Chester’s Mill refer to the day the dome arrived. As he drove, it was hard not to get the feeling that an alien structure could descend at any moment.
金先生吃完麦肯齐女士做的煎饼和香肠之后，我们前往附近一个名叫布里奇顿的小镇，虚构中的切斯特磨坊镇就是受这个小镇启发想象出来的。金先生穿着灰色T恤、牛仔裤和黑色帆布鞋，他今年65岁，又高又瘦，大风吹过安静的小镇广场，似乎能把他吹倒。当时是春末，但奇怪的是，那天的天气却很像小说中穹顶降落时那个阳光灿烂的秋日。他开车的时候，我不禁产生一种感觉，好像随时会有一个外来物体降落下来。
Mr. King started “Under the Dome” in 1972, when he was working as a high school English teacher in Hampden, Me. He wrote the first chapter about the woodchuck then shelved the idea for more than three decades until he finally felt confident he could tackle the logistics of an entire town trapped, as if in a snow globe. He wrote the original draft, more than 1,500 pages, in just 15 months, completing it in March 2009.
金先生是1972年开始写《穹顶之下》的，那时他在缅因州的汉普登镇担任高中英语教师。他写了第一章，讲的是那只土拨鼠，然后把这个构思放了30多年，直到他最终觉得有信心能处理好这一整个好像被困在雪花玻璃球中的小镇的各种头绪。他仅仅花了15个月就写出了1500多页的初稿，于2009年3月完成了本书。
“I was on fire,” he said of the writing process. “It was great. I loved it.”
“当时我在兴头上，”他谈起本书的写作过程时说。“那种感觉太好了。我非常喜欢。”
He said he had always envisioned the dome as an allegory for an environmentally threatened earth and had therefore emphasized to the creators of the TV series that no matter how many departures they take from the novel — and fans of the book will notice many of them — the writers had to retain the important themes.
他说他一直把这个穹顶看作是环境受到严重威胁的地球的象征，因此他跟电视剧的创作者们强调，不管他们的故事跟小说有多少不同之处——小说的热心读者们将会发现很多不同之处——他们都必须保留这些重要的主题。
“I sat down with Brian and Neal and said, ‘Don’t ever lose sight of the major idea behind ‘Under the Dome,’ which is we all live under a dome,” Mr. King said. “That’s it: earth and resources are finite.”
“我跟布莱恩和尼尔坐下来说，‘不要忘了《穹顶之下》背后的宏大主题，’那个主题就是我们都生活在一个穹顶之下，”金先生说。“也就是说：地球和资源是有限的。”
Amblin Television, the production company owned by Steven Spielberg, initially pitched “Under the Dome” to Showtime. But executives at the pay cable channel didn’t feel that the show quite fit into its lineup of dramas like “Homeland” and “Shameless,” and passed.
本剧是由史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)的安布林(Amblin)公司制作的，该公司最初想在映时(Showtime)频道播放本剧。但是那个付费有线电视频道的主管们感觉本剧与该频道的其他剧目风格不太一样，比如《国土安全》(Homeland)和《无耻之徒》(Shameless)，所以没有同意。
But Showtime’s broadcast sibling CBS had been looking for a splashy series that could break out during the less-cluttered summer months. “We wanted to get our hands on something with all the bells and whistles to launch something very big in the summer,” said Nina Tassler, president of CBS Entertainment.
但是映时频道的姐妹频道CBS当时正在寻找一部引人注目的电视剧，希望能在电视剧不多的夏季脱颖而出。“我们想着手拍一部有各种噱头的剧集，在夏季引起轰动，”CBS娱乐频道的总裁尼娜·塔斯勒(Nina Tassler)说。
But all those bells and whistles — an extensive cast, elaborate effects and sets depicting a bucolic town in crisis — cost more than CBS wanted to spend on a 13-episode summer series. That prompted the CBS Corporation (which also owns Simon & Schuster, which published “Under the Dome” under its Scribner imprint) to explore other ways to finance the series. Enter Amazon.
但是所有噱头——庞大的演员阵容，用精心制作的特效和布景描绘一个危机中的田园小镇——所需要的钱超过了CBS想在一个13集的夏季电视剧上投入的钱。这促使CBS公司（《穹顶之下》一书就是在该公司旗下的西蒙与舒斯特[Simon & Schuster]出版社的子公司斯克莱布诺[Scribner]出版社出版的）寻找给本剧融资的其他方式，包括与亚马逊合作。
Leslie Moonves, president and chief executive of CBS, noted that the syndication of series like “NCIS” and “The Big Bang Theory” on basic cable had attracted new viewers to the broadcast network. CBS is hoping that online syndication, especially the ability to watch episodes one after another within days of the original broadcast, will have a similar effect.
CBS的总裁兼首席执行官莱斯利·穆弗斯(Leslie Moonves)发现，像《海军罪案调查处》(NCIS)和《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)这样直接卖给基础有线频道的电视剧帮广播公司吸引到了新的观众。CBS希望把剧集直接卖给在线播放网站能收到类似的效果，特别是在线播放在电视首播后几天之内就能连续观看剧集，这是一大优势。
“This certainly is an experiment,” Mr. Moonves said. “Will binge viewing help this show? Will it help any show on broadcast? We’ll see.”
“当然这只是个试验，”穆弗斯说。“能纵情观看好几集对提高本剧的收视率有帮助吗？它对所有的电视剧都有用吗？让我们拭目以待。”
Executives at Amazon aren’t entirely sure how online customers will stream “Dome” — whether they will save up several episodes for binge viewing, or use it to catch up on a single episode they missed on TV. “I’d describe this as something we’re going to try for customers and see how they react,” said Brad Beale, head of content acquisition on Amazon’s digital video team.
亚马逊的主管们并不完全确定网上的顾客会怎样观看《穹顶之下》——他们是会攒几集一下子看完，还是用来补上在电视上漏看的剧集。“我把这看作一种尝试，看看顾客们作何反应，”亚马逊数字视频部的内容购买主任布莱德·比尔(Brad Beale)说。
Mr. King helped Amazon promote the Kindle 2 e-book reader and has an assortment of other e-readers, but on this day he was reading a chunky hardback edition of “Silken Prey,” a thriller by John Sandford. He mused on consumption habits as he drove his S.U.V. along a two-lane road surrounded by forest. “The interesting thing to me about this whole ‘Dome’ business is that they’re taking a model that changed the face of TV and how people watch TV, and they’re trying to adapt it to network TV,” he said.
金先生帮助亚马逊推销了Kindle2电子书阅读器，他还拥有各种各样的其他电子书阅读器，但是当天他读的是《如丝般的侵蚀者》(Silken Prey)厚实的精装本，那是约翰·桑福德(John Sandford)写的一部恐怖小说。他开着SUV穿过森林间一条双车道道路时，开始对消费习惯进行思考。“整个《穹顶之下》的运作让我感兴趣的地方在于，他们在采取一种改变电视面貌和人们看电视方式的模式，他们努力让它适应网络电视，”他说。
The publication of “Under the Dome” helped transform the book industry, CBS has noted, so why not TV? When the novel came out, the hardcover version cost $35; Amazon priced the e-book at just $9.99, which prompted Walmart to lower its prices on a handful of popular titles and set off an all-out price war. “It was the e-book version of World War II,” Mr. King said. Soon we passed a curve in the road near where Mr. King was struck by a car in 1999 while on one of his afternoon walks. The accident and his long, painful recovery from a collapsed lung, a broken hip and leg fractures had a deep impact on his writing. Over the last several years, much of his work, while fantastical and at times scary, has had firm roots in the real world but also social and political undertones, from “Under the Dome” (praised in The New York Times for offering “the scope and flavor of literary Americana”) to “11/22/63,” in which the main character travels back in time to the days before the Kennedy assassination.
CBS发现，《穹顶之下》的出版帮助改变了图书业，那为什么不让它也改变一下电视业呢？这本小说出版时，精装本定价为35美元；亚马逊的电子书定价仅为9.99美元，这促使沃尔玛降低了几款畅销图书的价格，引发了一场猛烈的价格大战。“那是电子书版的‘二战’，”金先生说。很快我们经过路上的一个弯道，1999年的一个下午金先生在这里散步时遭遇车祸，肺部和髋部严重受伤，腿部骨折。车祸以及之后漫长而痛苦的康复过程对他的写作产生了很深的影响。在过去几年里，他的很多作品虽然还是奇幻类的，有时还很恐怖，但是都深深植根于真实世界，而且暗含着社会和政治寓意——从《穹顶之下》（《纽约时报》称赞它具有“美国文学的视野和风情”）到《11/22/63》都是如此，后者讲述的是主人公及时穿越到了肯尼迪被刺杀之前的那段时间。
“The last thing I want now is to be pretentious or try and be something I’m not,” Mr. King said. “But it did make me aware that time is short,” he said of the accident.
“我现在最不想做的事就是自命不凡、装腔作势，”金先生说。“但是这件事的确让我意识到生命很短暂，”他提起车祸时说。
Pretentious Mr. King is not. Later he picked up a book off the $1 cart outside Bridgton Books and poked fun at the author’s photo — a grave pose with a pen in hand. “Now, that’s a serious writer,” he joked. “That guy is not messing around.”
金先生没有装腔作势。后来他在布里奇顿书店外面的1美元促销车上拿起一本书，嘲笑那个作者的照片——那个作者摆了个很严肃的姿势，手里拿着笔。“瞧，那才是严肃作家，”他开玩笑说。“那家伙不是在瞎胡闹。”
He has a self-deprecating sense of humor about being known as the master of horror. “I’m like the girl from the wrong side of the tracks who gets a certain reputation,” he said. Once, at a grocery store near Sarasota, Fla., where Mr. King and his wife, Tabitha, spend winters, an old woman told him that she doesn’t read his gory books and prefers more wholesome fare like “The Shawshank Redemption.” Mr. King told her he wrote that one, too.
提起他以“恐怖小说大师”闻名这一点，他有一种自嘲式的幽默。“我像是一个穷苦人家的姑娘，不小心就出名了，”他说。有一次，金先生和妻子塔比莎(Tabitha)在佛罗里达州的萨拉索塔市过冬，附近一个杂货店里，有个老太太告诉他，她不喜欢读他那些血淋淋的书，而更喜欢健康向上的故事，比如《肖申克的救赎》(The Shawshank Redemption)。金先生告诉她那本书也是他写的。
“She said, ‘No you didn’t,’ ” he recalled, laughing. “That was the whole exchange.”
“她说，‘才不是你写的呢，’”他大笑着回忆说。“我们的对话到这里就结束了。”
Part of what makes “Under the Dome” terrifying, Stephen King-style, is that the reader feels as trapped as the two Dorphans (short for dome orphans) who were cut off from their parents when the structure touched down. And then there are the assorted characters who morph from small-town normalcy to all-out lunacy after Dome Day.
《穹顶之下》让人感受到史蒂芬·金式的恐怖，其中一个原因是读者会感觉自己被困住了，就像那两个被困在穹顶之下的孤儿——穹顶降落的时候把他们与父母隔开了。还有里面各种各样的人物，在穹顶降落之后，他们从小镇上的正常人变成了不择手段的疯子。
When Mr. Vaughan and Mr. Baer were interviewing writers to work on the show, they asked them what they would do if they were trapped under a dome in their hometowns. “Some people said right away, ‘I’d go for the guns’ or ‘I’d hole up in my house’; others were more community-driven,” Mr. Vaughan said. He declined to go into specifics about the most interesting replies, saying that they had been worked into forthcoming plot lines.
沃恩和贝尔创作本剧时采访了一些作家，问他们如果被困在家乡的穹顶之下，会做些什么。“有些人马上说，‘我会去拿枪’或者‘我会躲在自己家里’；也有些人是从社区的角度去考虑，”沃恩说。他拒绝透露那些最有趣的回答的细节，说它们已经被编入即将播出的情节当中了。
Mr. Vaughan said that Mr. King’s help (and his cachet) had been invaluable but that he knew it would be up to him and the other writers to make the series work. He recalled some advice that he said Mr. King had given him early on: “To quote Elvis, ‘It’s your baby, you rock it now.’ ”
沃恩说金先生的帮助（还有他的威望）是非常珍贵的，但是他知道拍摄本剧还是要靠自己和其他编剧。他回忆起金先生最初给他提出的一些建议：“用埃尔维斯(Elvis)的话说就是，‘它是你的孩子，现在得你来摇它了。’”
While Mr. King’s work has had varying degrees of success on TV — “The Dead Zone” lasted six seasons on USA, “Kingdom Hospital” lasted only a single season on ABC — he said he prefers TV adaptations to films based on his books. He likened the movies, especially the long ones, to sitting on a suitcase. “You try to get everything in there and you know what, it doesn’t work most of the time,” he said.
金先生的作品被改编成电视剧时，取得的成绩大不相同——《死亡地带》(The Dead Zone)在USA频道播放了6季，《王国医院》(Kingdom Hospital)在ABC频道只播出了一季——他说他更喜欢自己的书被改编成电视剧，而不是电影。他把电影，特别是长电影，比喻成坐在塞了太多东西的手提箱上，还要硬把拉链拉上。“你努力把什么都塞进去，但是你知道，大部分时候不会成功，”他说。
“Misery,” the 1990 thriller starring James Caan and Kathy Bates, and “Stand By Me,” the 1986 coming-of-age drama directed by Rob Reiner, are exceptions, he suggests, because they are based, respectively, on a short novel and a short story.
1990年由詹姆斯·凯恩(James Caan)和凯西·贝茨(Kathy Bates)主演的惊悚片《危情十日》(Misery)，以及1986年由罗伯·雷恩(Rob Reiner)导演的成长题材电影《伴我同行》(Stand By Me)是两个例外。他认为，那是因为它们分别基于一个短篇小说和一个小故事。
He does not devote much ink in his novel to explaining the supernatural origins of the bullet- and missile-proof dome, but the overarching mystery is eventually solved. He wants the television series to do the same, even if it is canceled prematurely.
他在小说中没有花很多笔墨解释那个能抵挡子弹和导弹的穹顶的超自然来源，但是最重要的秘密最终还是揭晓了。他希望电视剧也能这样做，即使它会被提早停拍也要如此。
And if “Under the Dome” is a hit, it could run for multiple seasons, giving Mr. King and the writers tantalizing opportunities to explore dark story lines that didn’t make it into the book. For example, Mr. King left a separate attempt at a story about a community isolated from the outside world unfinished in 1982, when he was living in a depressing apartment complex in suburban Pittsburgh. In that telling, it is an apartment building that is cut off; residents grow desperate, and cannibalism ensues.
如果《穹顶之下》能够热播，它将能拍好几季，因为金先生和编剧们尝试着探索书中没有提到的一些黑暗的故事线索。比如说，金先生曾在1982年写过另外一个故事，讲的是一个与外界隔绝的社区，但是这个故事没有写完，当时他住在匹兹堡郊区一个压抑的公寓大楼里。在那个故事里，被隔绝的是一个公寓大楼，里面的居民因为绝望而变得疯狂，之后还发生了人吃人的事情。
“I never did get to cannibalism in ‘Dome,’ ” Mr. King said with a grin. “But maybe after three or four seasons. ...”
“在《穹顶之下》我一直没有提到人吃人，”金先生咧嘴一笑说道。“但是也许过了三季或者四季……”