BERLIN — Continuing revelations, based on documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, of sweeping American digital surveillance around the world are rattling the close ties between the United States and Germany.
柏林——来自爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密文件的材料，接连不断地披露着美国在世界上进行大范围数字监控的行为，使德国与美国之间的紧密关系受到动摇。
In a country scarred by Nazi and Communist pasts, the issue is prompting not just a debate about privacy and data protection, but also demands from German officials that the Berlin-Washington security partnership be put on a new footing.
在这个历史上曾遭受纳粹和共产主义创伤的国家，这个问题不仅引发关于隐私和数据保护的讨论，也引起德国官员提出把柏林和华盛顿的安全伙伴关系建立在一个新基础之上的要求。
The German newsmagazine Der Spiegel published a report last month, citing documents Mr. Snowden obtained while he worked as a contractor for the National Security Agency, that said the agency had succeeded in tapping into videoconferences at the United Nations in New York, into the European Union’s mission to the United Nations, and into other diplomatic missions around the world.
德国新闻杂志《镜报》(Der Spiegel)在上月（指7月，本文最初发表于8月26日——编注）发表的一篇报道中，援引了斯诺登在给国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）当合同工期间获得的文件，指出那家机构曾成功地监听联合国在纽约的视频会议、监听欧盟驻联合国代表团、以及在世界各地监听其他国家的外交代表机构。
The report said that the N.S.A. succeeded last year in cracking an encrypted video teleconferencing system at the United Nations, and even stumbled across Chinese spies who were apparently invading the same communications system. The magazine also published a floor plan, evidently from N.S.A. files, of the third floor of the European mission to the United Nations on Third Avenue in New York, showing the locations of offices and computer servers. Der Spiegel suggested that the spying on allies and the United Nations made President Obama’s defense of surveillance programs as a counterterrorism effort seem misleading at best.
这篇报道称，NSA去年成功破解了一个加密的联合国视频电话会议系统，甚至还在破解过程中碰到了显然是在侵入同一通讯系统的中国间谍。该杂志还刊登了一幅显然是来自NSA文档的楼层平面图，显示了位于纽约第三大道的欧盟驻联合国代表团所在地的第三层楼上，办公室和电脑服务器的位置。《镜报》暗示，对盟友和联合国的监听行为说明，奥巴马总统辩称监听项目是为了打击恐怖主义的说法至少是一种误导。
Evidence that the United States has been spying extensively on its allies as well as on its enemies has been among the most significant revelations from Mr. Snowden, along with widespread government surveillance of the telephone and digital communications of American citizens without warrants.
美国一直不仅针对敌人也针对盟友进行广泛间谍活动的证据，是斯诺登泄露的最重要的资料之一，另外一个就是政府在没有授权的情况下对美国公民的电话和数字交流进行大范围监听监视的证据。
The Der Spiegel article last month was not the first to reveal American eavesdropping at the United Nations, which many diplomats have assumed for years was taking place. But it added extensive new detail to what had previously been reported, and it may compound the frictions developing between the United States and its allies over the issue — especially with Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel is in the midst of an election campaign.
《镜报》7月发表的文章并非是首次披露美国对联合国进行监听的文章，不少外交官多年来一直认为美国在这样做。但该报道却为此前已发表的文章增添了更多大量的新细节，而且可能还会加剧美国及其盟友在这一问题上产生的摩擦，尤其是与德国之间，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)眼下正处在大选前夕。
Top German officials traveled to Washington last month to press an unusual demand: to negotiate a new formal agreement with the United States that neither side will spy on the other.
德国高级官员在7月访问华盛顿时，提出一个不同寻常的要求：那就是与美国谈判，以达成一个新的正式协议，新协议将包括两国在未来互不针对对方进行间谍活动的条款。
The initiative was confirmed in two sittings of the German parliamentary committee in charge of overseeing the country’s intelligence agencies. Ronald Pofalla, who runs Ms. Merkel’s Chancellery, told the committee on Aug. 12 that the two countries were working on just such an agreement. He gave no details, and none leaked out afterward in German media reports.
这个行动已经得到监管德国情报机构的德国议会委员会的两次会议的确准。默克尔的幕僚长罗纳德·波法拉(Ronald Pofalla)8月12日对该委员会称，德国和美国正在为这一协议展开工作。他没有透露细节，也没有人对随后的德国媒体报道泄露任何细节。
Neither side will say anything official about the proposed accord. Observers on both sides of the Atlantic say that even if such an agreement proves to be feasible, it will probably have to wait until after the German elections on Sept. 22.
两国均不会对这个提议中的协议发表任何正式言论。欧洲和美国的观察家都说，即使这个协议被证明是可行的，它的达成也至少要等到9月22日德国大选结束之后。
It was not known whether Der Spiegel planned to publish further revelations from Snowden documents before then. Opinion polls in Germany suggest that Ms. Merkel’s strong standing with voters has not been damaged by the issue, nor has it displaced the weather or vacations as topics of summer conversation here.
协议达成之前，《镜报》是否有计划发表更多的斯诺登泄密的资料，尚无从得知。德国的民意调查显示，这个问题没有对默克尔强大的支持率带来影响，也没有取代德国人夏季的聊天话题，通常还是有关天气和度假。
But in the eyes of a skeptical, privacy-minded German public, at least, Der Spiegel’s report may have undercut the significance of the proposed accord by noting that the eavesdropping described in the Snowden documents would have violated agreements that the United States has made.
但是，对于持怀疑态度、十分在意隐私的德国公众来说，《镜报》的报道也许减弱了这个提议中协议所具有的意义，该报道称斯诺登泄露的文件中所描述的间谍行为，可能本已违反了美国签署过的协议。
For the German government, the whole affair is frustrating. One senior official who spoke on the condition of anonymity argued that Ms. Merkel had generally done a good job of keeping foreign affairs and controversy out of domestic politics, only to have Mr. Snowden’s revelations capture world attention just as she was preparing to receive Mr. Obama in Berlin in June, depart on vacation in July and open the final stage of her election campaign in August.
对德国政府来说，整个事件都很让人郁闷。一名要求不具名的高级官员称，总体上来说，默克尔在把外交事务和争议与国内政治分开上一般做得不错，而正当她在6月份准备在柏林迎接奥巴马、7月份去度假，以及在8月份开始最后一轮大选竞赛活动时，却赶上了斯诺登泄密事件引起世界关注。
With Mr. Obama at her side on June 19, Ms. Merkel, who is said by several well-informed people to have very much wanted the president to come to Berlin before the election, kept the emphasis on cooperation. She cited a well-known instance in which a tip from American intelligence helped thwart a potential terrorist attack in Germany.
几名消息灵通人士称，默克尔十分希望奥巴马总统能在德国大选前访问柏林。她如愿以偿，6月19日当奥巴马到来时，她继续强调了合作。她还提到一个十分著名的案子，由于美国情报部门的帮助，阻止了一场针对德国的可能的恐怖主义袭击。
Ms. Merkel sent at least two high-level delegations to Washington to press for the new accord. It seems that prompted Mr. Obama to say at his Aug. 9 news conference “to others around the world” that he wanted “to make clear once again that America is not interested in spying on ordinary people.”
默克尔向华盛顿派出了至少两个高级代表团，以推动新协议的达成。这似乎促使奥巴马在8月9日的新闻发布会上说，他希望对“世界其他国家的人再次澄清，美国没兴趣从事针对普通人的间谍活动。”
The weekly newspaper Die Zeit noted that the political storm in Germany appeared to be calming down, though Mr. Snowden continued to draw praise from respected figures like the writer Hans Magnus Enzensberger, who called him a “hero of the 21st century” in a television interview last week.
《时代周报》(Die Zeit)指出，德国的政治风暴似乎正在过去，虽然斯诺登继续得到像作家汉斯·马格努斯·恩岑斯贝格尔(Hans Magnus Enzensberger)那样的受人尊敬者的称赞，恩岑斯贝格尔在上周的一次电视采访中称斯诺登是“21世纪的英雄。”
But the same day, the British police detained David Miranda, the partner of Glenn Greenwald, the journalist who has been a main conduit for Mr. Snowden’s revelations. The Guardian, which has published articles by Mr. Greenwald, then revealed that British intelligence agents had overseen the destruction of computer hard drives at the newspaper’s offices.
但在同一天，英国警方拘留了戴维·米兰达(David Miranda)，米兰达是斯诺登泄密的主要渠道、记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的配偶。随后，刊登过格林沃尔德文章的《卫报》(Guardian)透露，英国情报机构曾在该报办公室监视销毁硬盘。
The two incidents ignited fresh outrage in Germany, where data protection laws are strict, and jealously guarded by officials and consumers alike.
这两件事在德国再度引起公愤，德国的数据保护法十分严格，而且官员和消费者都非常认真地捍卫这些法律。
Journalists like Mathias Müller von Blumencron, a former editor of the online edition of Der Spiegel, and Stefan Schulz, of the online edition of Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, said that the election campaign had blunted what could have been a more full-throated discussion of government surveillance, cooperation with the United States and the balance between civil rights and security needs in Western democracy. “If we had had this discussion last year,” with the elections less imminent, “it could have been more fruitful,” Mr. Schulz said.
《镜报》网络版前主编马蒂亚斯·穆勒·冯·布鲁门克朗(Mathias Müller von Blumencron)和《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung)网络版的斯特凡·舒尔茨(Stefan Schulz)等媒体人认为，大选活动已经冲淡了人们对这些问题的热烈讨论，包括政府监控、与美国的合作，以及西方民主社会中公民权利与安全需求之间的平衡等。舒尔茨说，“如果我们去年进行这种讨论的话，可能会更有成效，”因为去年离大选还远。
Germany’s privacy laws and public sensitivity to privacy issues have made it an attractive base for hacker activists like Jacob Appelbaum and for Laura Poitras, the documentary filmmaker who helped bring Mr. Greenwald and Mr. Snowden together. A political movement called the Pirate Party won seats in Parliament in 2011 on a platform focused on Internet freedom.
德国的隐私保护法律和公众对隐私问题的敏感度使该国对黑客活动人士很有吸引力，像雅各布·阿佩尔鲍姆(Jacob Appelbaum)和纪录片制片人劳拉·普瓦特拉斯(Laura Poitras)这样的人都以德国为根据地，普瓦特拉斯曾帮助格林沃尔德与斯诺登建立联系。2011年一个名为海盗党(Pirate Party)的政治运动在德国赢得了议会席位，该党的纲领就是关注网络自由。
Mr. Schulz noted that groups like the Pirate Party and the Chaos Computer Club in Berlin had been talking for years about the technical possibility of widespread government surveillance in Germany.
舒尔茨指出，类似海盗党和柏林的混沌计算机俱乐部(Chaos Computer Club)这样的组织，多年来一直在讨论政府在德国从事大范围监听监视活动的技术可能性问题。