MOSCOW — Edward J. Snowden, an American who took refuge in Russia after leaking a trove of classified United States data from global surveillance, has criticized a proposed Russian law as an assault on freedom of speech, and has been rebuffed in an effort to collect a free-speech prize in Norway.
莫斯科——在俄罗斯避难的美国人爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曾曝光过美国全球监控行动的大量机密数据。近日他批评俄罗斯草拟的一项法律是对言论自由的攻击，此外，他想到挪威领取一个言论自由奖项的希望也破灭了。
Mr. Snowden, who was charged by the United States in 2013 with violating the Espionage Act, was invited to Norway by a writers’ advocacy group to receive the prize, and sought guarantees in court that he would not be handed over to the American authorities. News agencies reported on Monday that a court in Oslo rejected his bid.
在2013年，美国以违反了《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)为由起诉了斯诺登。不久前，一个作家维权组织邀请他到挪威领奖，于是斯诺登向法院寻求保证，不会把他移交给美国当局。新闻机构本周一报道，奥斯陆的一所法院驳回了他的请求。
His criticism of the Russian law came over the weekend, when he said on Twitter that it was “an unworkable, unjustifiable violation of rights that should never be signed.” The law was passed by the lower house of Parliament on Friday; the speaker of the upper house, Valentina I. Matviyenko, signaled on Monday that her chamber would pass it as well.
周末期间，他批评了俄罗斯的一项法律，在Twitter上说，这是“对权利行不通的、不合理的侵犯，永远不应该被签署。”该法上周五在议会下院通过；上院议长瓦伦蒂娜·I·马特维延科(Valentina I. Matviyenko)周一表示，上院也会通过这项法律。
“Mass surveillance doesn’t work,” Mr. Snowden wrote. “This bill will take money and liberty without improving safety.”
“大规模监控是行不通的，”斯诺登写道。“这项法案会浪费金钱、夺走自由，却不会提高安全性。”
Rights activists have protested several elements of the bill, especially a provision making it a crime to fail to report the planning of a terrorist act and another that would make it a crime to write social media posts that justify terrorism. Under the law, Russian cellular and internet providers would have to store all communications data for six months and help security services decipher encrypted messages. Mr. Snowden called it “Russia’s new Big Brother law.”
人权活动人士对该法的几处地方进行了抗议，尤其是有两条称，如果不举报恐怖活动，如果在社交媒体上为恐怖主义辩护，都将构成犯罪。这项法律规定，俄罗斯的手机和互联网服务供应商必须储存六个月内的所有通信数据，并帮助安全机构破译加密讯息。斯诺登将其称为“俄罗斯的新老大哥法”。
Speaking to the Interfax news agency on Monday, Mr. Snowden’s lawyer, Anatoly G. Kucherena, defended the criticism, and said it showed that Mr. Snowden was “a man of principles” who “criticizes Russia, too.”
周一接受国际文传电讯社(Interfax)采访时，斯诺登的律师阿纳托利·G·库切连纳(Anatoly G. Kucherena)对他的批评进行了辩护，说这表明斯诺登是“一个有原则的人，也会批评俄罗斯”。
“We live in a free society, in a democratic state,” Mr. Kuchenera said.
“我们生活在一个自由社会里，生活在一个民主国家，”库切连纳说。
During his three years in Russia, Mr. Snowden, whose asylum was approved personally by President Vladimir V. Putin, has tried to stay active as an advocate for civil liberties while remaining on good terms with his Russian hosts. He takes part in conferences and public events abroad through internet teleconferencing to avoid traveling where he might be detained.
斯诺登在俄罗斯待了三年，他的庇护申请由总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)亲自批准。在此期间，他试图作为公民自由方面的维权人士保持活跃，同时也与俄罗斯东道主保持良好关系。他通过互联网电话会议的方式参加海外会议和公众活动，以免在出行时遭到拘押。
Mr. Snowden has said that he does not plan to die in Russia and that he would like to return to the United States. His American lawyer, Ben Wizner, said that Mr. Snowden would seek a pardon from President Obama.
斯诺登表示，他并不打算老死在俄罗斯，他想回到美国。他的美国律师本·维茨纳(Ben Wizner)称，斯诺登将向奥巴马总统寻求赦免。