WASHINGTON — Edward J. Snowden’s father and the family’s lawyer said Sunday that they had obtained visas to visit the former intelligence contractor in Russia and indicated that they would encourage him to return to the United States to face federal charges for revealing secret American surveillance programs to journalists, but only if acceptable trial conditions could be negotiated.
华盛顿——周日，爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的父亲和其家庭律师表示，已获得赴俄罗斯探望前情报机构承包商雇员斯诺登的签证，并表示会鼓励斯诺登回到美国，面对联邦政府因其向记者透露美国秘密监控计划而提出的指控，但前提是可以通过谈判取得可接受的审判条件。
“What I would like,” said Lon Snowden, the father, “is for this to be vetted in open court, for the American people to have all the facts.” He said he favored his son’s return if a fair trial was assured. As for a possible plea deal, he said, “I’m not open to it, and that’s what I’ll share with my son.”
“我希望，”斯诺登的父亲朗尼·斯诺登(Lon Snowden)说，“这件事能在公开法庭上审理，让美国人民知晓所有事实。”他说，如果能保证得到公正审判，他支持儿子回国。至于可能的认罪协议，他说，“我不愿接受，这也是我要与儿子交流的。”
Appearing on the ABC News program “This Week,” Lon Snowden and the family’s lawyer, Bruce Fein, declined to say when they would visit, to avoid what Mr. Fein called a news media “frenzy,” but they said it would be soon.
在ABC的新闻节目《本周》(This Week)上，朗尼·斯诺登和其家庭律师布鲁斯·费恩(Bruce Fein)拒绝透露将于何时前往俄罗斯，以避免费恩所说的新闻媒体的“疯狂报道”，但他们表示很快就会去。
In a criminal complaint filed in June, federal prosecutors charged Edward Snowden with theft, “unauthorized communication of national defense information” and willfully disclosing classified communications intelligence “to an unauthorized person.” The second and third charge were brought under the Espionage Act of 1917.
在6月提交的一份刑事诉状中，联邦检察官指控斯诺登盗窃、“未经授权透露国防信息”以及“故意向未经授权的人士透露机密通信情报信息”。第二项和第三项指控的依据是1917年的《反间谍法》(Espionage Act)。
“We intend to visit with Edward and suggest criminal defense attorneys who’ve got experience in Espionage Act prosecutions,” said Mr. Fein, a well-known Washington lawyer who specializes in constitutional and international law. Such lawyers, he added, are uncommon, since prosecutions under the Espionage Act have been rare historically.
费恩是华盛顿的知名律师，他说，“我们打算去看望爱德华，并向他推荐有《反间谍法》辩护经验的刑事辩护律师。”费恩的专长是宪法和国际法。他补充说，这样的律师不常见，因为以《反间谍法》为依据提起公诉在历史上很罕见。
Mr. Fein noted that he has laid out his concerns about a potential trial, including its venue, in a letter to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., but he insisted that the terms he discussed were not “ultimatums” but rather negotiating points.
费恩指出，他已经在一封写给司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)的信中清楚地表达了对可能进行的审判，包括审判地点的担忧，但费恩坚持表示他讨论的条款并非“最后定论”，而是可以谈判的事项。
Mr. Fein and Lon Snowden offered few details about Edward Snowden’s living arrangement in Russia. The authorities there granted him asylum on the condition that he disclose no more information about the National Security Agency programs.
费恩和朗尼·斯诺登几乎未提供有关爱德华·斯诺登在俄罗斯的生活安排的细节。俄罗斯当局为其提供庇护的条件是，他不再泄露和美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的计划相关的信息。
Mr. Fein did say that he had been told by Mr. Snowden’s lawyer in Russia that the young man was safe but “exhausted” after an extraordinary odyssey that took him from Hawaii, where he worked as an intelligence contractor with access to a huge array of government information, to Hong Kong, where he released details of N.S.A. programs, and then on to Russia.
费恩的确表示，斯诺登在俄罗斯的律师告诉他说，在经历了从夏威夷到香港再到俄罗斯的艰辛旅程后，年轻的斯诺登很安全，但同时也“精疲力尽”。在夏威夷时，他是情报机构的一名承包商雇员，能接触到大量政府信息，而在香港，他公开了NSA计划的细节。
Lon Snowden, a Pennsylvania resident who served in the United States Coast Guard for about 30 years before retiring in 2009, has said in previous interviews that he will take precautions, while in Russia, to do nothing that can be construed as aiding or abetting a wanted fugitive. For that reason, he said recently, he had not spoken to his son since before Edward flew to Hong Kong.
朗尼·斯诺登住在宾夕法尼亚州。2009年退役之前，他曾在美国海岸警卫队(United States Coast Guard)服役约30年。他在之前的采访中说，他到俄罗斯后会尽量小心，不做出任何会被当做协助或教唆通缉逃犯的行为。他近期表示，基于这个原因，他自从爱德华飞往香港前就没再和儿子说过话。
Last week, President Obama canceled a planned meeting in Moscow with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, in part to express American pique over Russia’s granting of temporary asylum to Mr. Snowden.
上周，奥巴马总统取消了在莫斯科会见俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的计划，这在一定程度上是为了表达美国对俄罗斯向斯诺登提供临时庇护的不满。
In his news conference on Friday, Mr. Obama said that if Mr. Snowden believed in the rightness of his actions, “then, like every American citizen, he can come here, appear before the court with a lawyer and make his case.”
奥巴马在周五的新闻发布会上说，如果斯诺登认为自己的行为是正确的，“那么，和每位美国公民一样，他也可以回到这里，带着律师出庭，阐述自己的理由。”
At the same time, the president used the news conference to promise more openness and scrutiny of the N.S.A. programs, in a clear response to widespread criticism after Mr. Snowden’s revelations.
同时，奥巴马还在新闻发布会上承诺将提高NSA项目的透明度和对这些项目的监管，这样做明显是为了回应斯诺登披露相关讯息后引发的广泛批评。
Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York and a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said Sunday on the CBS News program “Face the Nation” that he would have liked to have seen Mr. Obama denounce Mr. Snowden more forcefully.
纽约州共和党众议员、众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)委员彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)周日在CBS新闻频道(CBS News)的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)中说，他希望看到奥巴马对斯诺登作出更严厉的谴责。
“He’s not a patriot,” Mr. King said.
彼得·T·金说，“他不是一名爱国者。”
But Lon Snowden, in his interview, listed Mr. King among the Congressional leaders he said had leapt to “absolutely irresponsible” conclusions about his son before any trial had been held. “They have poisoned the well, so to speak, in terms of a potential jury pool,” he said.
但是，朗尼·斯诺登在采访中罗列了一些国会领导人，称这些人在还未进行任何审判前，就对自己的儿子做出了“相当不负责任”的结论，金就是其中一人。他说，“可以说，他们正在潜在陪审团人员面前混淆视听。”