SAN FRANCISCO — Three years ago, Steven P. Jobs compared personal computers to trucks and tablets to cars. PCs will still be around, he said, but more people will want tablets.
旧金山——三年前，史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)将个人电脑比作卡车，将平板电脑比作汽车。他说，PC会继续存在，但更多人想要平板电脑。
Apple on Tuesday took another step toward making that prediction come true. It souped up its iPad tablets with faster processors and zippier Internet connections.
周二，苹果(Apple)又朝使这个预言成真的方向前进了一步。苹果为iPad平板电脑带来了更快的处理器和更快捷的网络连接，使其更富有吸引力。
The company upgraded its iPad Mini, the smaller tablet, with a higher-resolution display. The full-size iPad with a 9.7-inch screen was renamed the iPad Air, because it has a slimmer design and has lost some weight. The small iPad starts at $400 and the bigger iPad will cost $500. Both iPads will ship in November.
苹果公司改善了小型平板电脑iPad Mini，为它配备了高分辨率显示屏。拥有9.7英寸屏幕的iPad更名为iPad Air，因为这款产品机身较薄，重量有所减轻。iPad Mini起售价为400美元（中国的起售价为2888元人民币），iPad起售价为500美元。两款iPad都将于11月开始发售。
“This is our biggest leap forward ever in a full-sized iPad,” said Philip W. Schiller, vice president for marketing at Apple, at a company event here.
苹果营销副总裁菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)在旧金山参加公司活动时表示，“这是全尺寸iPad取得的最大飞跃。”
Mr. Jobs, who died in 2011, declared at a business conference in 2010 that the era of the personal computer was nearly over. He said that tablets, which are more portable and easier to use, would cut people’s ties to old-school computers, relegating PCs — like trucks — to carrying the heaviest loads.
乔布斯于2011年去世。他曾在2010年的一次商务会议上宣布，个人电脑的时代即将终结。当时他表示，平板电脑更为轻便好用，将会削弱人们与老式电脑的关系，使PC像卡车一样降级为携带最重负荷的设备。
“When we were an agrarian nation, all cars were trucks, because that’s what you needed on the farm,” Mr. Jobs said. As cars became faster and easier to use, trucks became passé, he said.
乔布斯说，“我们还是一个农业国家的时候，所有的汽车都是卡车，因为这是农场需要的。”他表示，由于汽车越来越快，越来越好用，卡车就过时了。
Tablets are already devouring the PC market. About 120 million tablets were shipped in 2012, nearly seven times as many as in 2010, when the Apple iPad was first released, according to Gartner, a market research company. IDC, another research company, predicts that sales of tablets will surpass those of PCs in the fourth quarter of this year, and on an annual basis in 2015.
平板电脑已经在大口吞噬PC市场。据市场研究公司高德纳(Gartner)透露，2012年，平板电脑的发货量大约为1.2亿台，几乎是2010年发货量的七倍，当时苹果首次推出iPad。据研究公司国际数据公司(IDC)预测，平板电脑的销售量将在今年第四季度超过PC，年销售量将在2015年超过PC。
The new iPad Mini gained a high-resolution Retina display. It costs $400 — $70 more than the previous iPad Mini. But Apple said it would continue selling the older iPad Mini for $300.
新款iPad Mini拥有高分辨率Retina显示屏。售价为400美元，比老款iPad Mini贵70美元。但苹果表示，该公司将继续销售老款iPad Mini，售价为300美元。
The iPad Air is about 20 percent thinner than the previous iPad and weighs one pound, down from 1.4 pounds.
iPad Air比前代iPad薄20%左右，仅有1磅（约合454克）重，前代的重量为1.4磅。
Both new iPads will include new chips, called A7 and M7, which Apple introduced in its latest high-end iPhone last month. The A7 is a faster processor with a new architecture that makes it better at multitasking.The M7 is a separate chip dedicated to sensing movement, which could allow for new capabilities in software or games that incorporate motion, like a racing game.
两款新iPad都搭载了新芯片A7和M7，苹果上个月推出最新款高端iPhone时介绍了这两种芯片。较快的A7处理器拥有一个新架构，使其更擅长多任务处理。M7是专门用于运动感应的独立芯片，它能改进竞速游戏等运动软件及游戏的表现。
Both iPads will also include an improved antenna system for faster Wi-Fi connections. They will come in silver and gray. The iPad Air goes on sale Nov. 1, but the new Mini will ship later in November, suggesting that supply is limited for the smaller tablet.
两款iPad都配有改进的天线系统，能更快地连接Wi-Fi。有深空灰色和银色两种颜色可供选择。iPad Air将于11月1日发售，但新款Mini要到11月晚些时候才发售，说明它的供应有限。
The new iPads do not include the fingerprint sensor technology, TouchID, that Apple introduced in the high-end iPhone 5S. Analysts believe that may be because parts are in limited supply, since the iPhone 5S is selling so quickly.
新款iPad都没有采用苹果用在高端手机iPhone 5S上的指纹识别技术TouchID。分析人士认为，这可能是因为iPhone 5S卖得非常快，导致零部件供应紧张。
Mac computers have taken the back seat of Apple’s business, with most of Apple’s profit coming from iPhones and iPads. The company said that beginning Tuesday, it would make its new Mac operating system, Mavericks, available free.
苹果电脑(Mac)在苹果的业务中一直排在后面，苹果的大部分利润都来自iPhone和iPad。苹果称，从周二开始，公司将把新Mac操作系统Mavericks免费提供给用户。
Apple also released upgrades for some of its Mac hardware on Tuesday. The MacBook Pro notebooks with Retina displays are now thinner and faster, with better battery life. The 13-inch version will cost $1,300 and the 15-inch model will cost $2,000.
周二，苹果还发布了一些更新的Mac硬件。配备Retina显示屏的MacBook Pro笔记本电脑变得更轻更快，电池续航时间也更长。13英寸的售价将为1300美元，15英寸的则为2000美元。
Apple also said the high-end Mac desktop computer, the Mac Pro, which was introduced in June, will begin shipping in December, for $3,000. It will be assembled in the United States.
苹果还表示，于6月推出的高端Mac台式电脑Mac Pro将从12月开始发售，售价为3000美元。这款电脑的组装将在美国完成。
Although the tablet market is growing quickly, tablets are not nearly as ubiquitous as smartphones yet. Gartner said that manufacturers will ship one billion smartphones and 184 million tablets this year. Carolina Milanesi, a Gartner analyst, said smartphones were probably more popular because the phone function makes a smartphone a necessity, while a tablet is still considered a device that is just nice to have.
虽然平板电脑市场增长很快，它的普及率仍然远不及智能手机。高德纳说，今年的智能手机发货量将为10亿，平板电脑则为1.84亿。高德纳分析师卡罗莱娜·米拉内西(Carolina Milanesi)说，智能手机之所以更受欢迎，或许是因为电话的功能使智能手机成了必需品，平板电脑则仍被视作一件额外的奢侈品。
Mr. Jobs was wrong about one thing regarding tablets. In a conference call with investors in 2010, he mocked smaller tablets, calling them “dead on arrival” and saying they would need to come with sandpaper so people could sand down their fingertips to use them.
关于平板电脑，乔布斯在有一点上说得不对。2010年，他在与投资者进行电话会议时戏称，小型平板电脑将“到院死亡”，还说需要给它们附上砂纸，好让人们磨尖手指来使用它们。
For Apple’s competitors, smaller tablets are getting the most traction, partly because of their lower costs. And that also appears to be the case for Apple. Since the release of the lower-cost iPad Mini late last year, the average selling price of iPads over all has fallen, according to the company’s financial reports, meaning the iPad Mini is most likely outselling the bigger iPad.
在苹果的竞争者看来，小型平板电脑的势头最为强劲，部分原因是它们售价较低。对于苹果来说，情况似乎也是如此。苹果的财务报告显示，自售价较低的iPad Mini于去年年末发布后，iPad的平均售价整体降低，表明iPad Mini的销量极有可能超过体积更大的iPad。
Apple is No. 1 in the tablet market with about a 32 percent share, according to IDC. But Apple faces fierce competition from companies like Amazon, Samsung Electronics and Google, whose tablets undercut the iPad in price. Samsung, the No. 2 tablet maker, is quickly gaining traction, with 18 percent of the market in the second quarter, up from 7.6 percent in the period a year earlier, according to IDC. Ms. Milanesi of Gartner said she expected smaller tablets to continue gaining in popularity as the smartphone market became saturated.
根据IDC提供的数据，苹果在平板电脑市场上所占比例为32%左右，居于首位。但苹果也面临着亚马逊(Amazon)、三星电子(Samsung Electronics)和谷歌(Google)等公司的激烈竞争，这些公司的平板电脑比iPad便宜。IDC表示，第二大平板电脑制造商三星的销量增长很快，第二季度所占市场份额为18%，去年同期则仅为7.6%。高德纳的米拉内西说，随着智能手机市场趋于饱和，她预计小型平板电脑会越来越受欢迎。
“We expect this holiday season to be all about smaller tablets as even the long-term holiday favorite — the smartphone — loses its appeal,” she said.
她说，“我们预计，小型平板电脑将成为这个假日销售季的主题，原因在于，就连人们长久以来的假日最爱——智能手机——也在失去吸引力。”