Coming just one day after leaked documents suggested that the National Security Agency is able to hack into smartphones, the unveiling of a new iPhone with a built-in fingerprint scanner prompted dismay and mockery online from privacy advocates and journalists.
就在泄密文件显示，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）有能力侵入智能手机的一天之后，苹果发布了带有内置指纹扫描仪的新款iPhone，隐私倡导人士和记者纷纷在网上表示不满和嘲弄。
In an article published Monday by Spiegel Online, the German magazine’s English Web site, Marcel Rosenbach, Laura Poitras and Holger Stark reported that documents obtained from the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden boasted of the agency’s ability to capture photographs, location data, contacts and even drafts of text messages from iPhones.
在德国《明镜》杂志(Der Spiegel)的英文网站明镜在线(Spiegel Online)周一发表的一篇文章中，马塞尔·罗森巴赫(Marcel Rosenbach)、劳拉·普瓦特拉斯(Laura Poitras)和霍尔格·斯塔克(Holger Stark)报道称，从NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)那里获得的文件吹嘘了NSA的能力，称该机构能从iPhone手机获取照片、位置数据和联系人信息，甚至是短信草稿。
Christopher Soghoian (@csoghoian) tweeted, “Give your fingerprints to a company that still refuses to describe, on the record, how they provide iOS unlocking assistance to the US gov.”
克里斯托弗·索格伊安（Christopher Soghoian，Twitter账户@csoghoian）在Twitter上发帖说，“把指纹给一个依然拒绝公开描述自己如何向美国政府提供iOS解锁援助的公司。”
Matt Yglesias (@mattyglesias) added, “Seems like the NSA should subsidize 5S purchases to get the biometric data.”
马特·伊格莱西亚斯（Matt Yglesias，Twitter账户@mattyglesias）补充说，“为了获取生物计量数据，NSA似乎应该为购买5S提供补贴。”
“I would prefer to just give my iPhone a hair sample each time I use it. Is that an option?” asked Ezra Klein (@ezraklein)
“我倒是觉得，每次用iPhone时都提供一份头发样本更好。有这个选项吗？”埃兹拉·克莱因（Ezra Klein，Twitter账户@ezraklein）问道。
According to the documents reviewed by the Spiegel journalists, the agency’s ability to spy on iPhone users is already so extensive that an internal presentation even compared Steve Jobs with Big Brother, the all-seeing presence in “1984,” George Orwell’s novel about an advanced surveillance state. 
根据前述《明镜》记者查阅的文件，NSA监视iPhone用户的能力已然非常强大，以至于该机构的一次内部演示甚至把斯蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)比作乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)的小说《一九八四》中的老大哥(Big Brother)。这部小说描写的是一个先进的监控国家，小说中的老大哥能够监视一切。
The presentation included three slides with images from Apple’s famous 1984-themed television commercial and a photograph of the Apple founder, who died in October 2011, holding an iPhone accompanied by a caption that asked: “Who knew in 1984 … that this would be Big Brother … and the zombies would be paying customers?”
那份演示包含3张幻灯片，其中一些图像来自苹果公司著名的“1984”主题电视广告，还有2011年10月故去的苹果公司创始人手握iPhone的一张照片，说明文字中问道：“在1984年，谁会知道这就是老大哥(Big Brother)，而僵尸会是付费用户呢？”
After the initial flurry of jokes, Jacob Appelbaum (@ioerror), a developer and spokesman for the Tor project, which allows users to browse the Web anonymously, suggested that the fingerprint scanner could soon make it impossible for political activists to keep information private.
最初的笑话浪潮过后，开发者雅各布·阿佩尔鲍姆（Jacob Appelbaum，Twitter账户@ioerror）指出，指纹扫描仪可能很快就会使政治活动人士无法保持信息的私密性。阿佩尔鲍姆也是Tor项目的发言人，该项目让用户可以匿名浏览网页。
“The future is here: The police at a protest tell you to unlock your #iPhone, you refuse, they arrest and/or print and then unlock it anyway,” he tweeted. “The #iPhone fingerprint scanner will practically reduce our right to remain silent as we will have our prints taken against our will.”
“想想这样的未来：在一场抗议中，警方让你解锁iPhone，你拒绝了，他们就逮捕你，取得你的指纹，然后解锁手机，”他在Twitter上写道。“iPhone指纹扫描仪事实上会削弱我们保持沉默的权利，因为别人可以在违背我们意愿的情况下获取我们的指纹。”
Apple’s developers stressed that the new phone’s fingerprint data would be encrypted and stored locally on the phone, not uploaded to the company’s servers. But, as The Times, The Guardian and ProPublica reported last week, the N.S.A. “has circumvented or cracked much of the encryption, or digital scrambling, that guards global commerce and banking systems, protects sensitive data like trade secrets and medical records, and automatically secures the e-mails, Web searches, Internet chats and phone calls of Americans and others around the world,” according to documents from the Snowden archive.
苹果的开发者们强调，新手机的指纹数据将被加密并存储在手机本地，不会上传到公司的服务器。但是，正如《纽约时报》、《卫报》(The Guardian)和ProPublica上周报道的那样，斯诺登泄露的文件显示，美国国家安全局“绕过或破解了很多加密技术，或数字加扰技术，而这些技术守卫着全球商业和银行系统，保护着商业秘密和医疗记录之类的敏感数据，并且自动保护美国人和世界各地人民的电子邮件、网络搜索、上网聊天和电话交流”。