The College Board on Wednesday will release many details of its revised SAT, including sample questions and explanations of the research, goals and specifications behind them.
周三，美国大学理事会(College Board)将公布修改后SAT（学术能力评估测试）的许多细节，包括样题以及对研究、目标及制定这些目标的具体规范的解释。
“We are committed to a clear and open SAT, and today is the first step in that commitment,” said Cyndie Schmeiser, the College Board’s chief of assessment, in a conference call on Monday, previewing the changes to be introduced in the spring of 2016.
周一，美国大学理事会测评主任辛迪·施迈泽(Cyndie Schmeiser)在一场电话会议上对将于2016年春天推出的新SAT的变化做了预告，她说，“我们真心希望推出一个明确、公开的SAT，今天正是我们向着这一目标迈出的第一步。”
She said the 211-page test specifications and supporting materials being shared publicly include “everything a student needs to know to walk into that test and not be surprised.”
她说，理事会将公布共计211页的测试具体规范和支持材料，包括了“一名学生想要胸有成竹地步入考场所需的一切”。
One big change is in the vocabulary questions, which will no longer include obscure words. Instead, the focus will be on what the College Board calls “high utility” words that appear in many contexts, in many disciplines — often with shifting meanings — and they will be tested in context. For example, a question based on a passage about an artist who “vacated” from a tradition of landscape painting, asks whether it would be better to substitute the word “evacuated,” “departed” or “retired,” or to leave the sentence unchanged. (The right answer is “departed.”)
一大变化将出现在词汇试题中，这部分考题将不再包括生涩难懂的单词。重点将转移至理事会所说的“高实用性”词汇，这些词会出现在许多不同语境、不同学科中——往往因此有不同的含义，而考试就将把它们放在不同的语境内。例如，有一段话是关于一名艺术家“vacated”（搬出了）风景画传统，基于这段话的问题就是，是否将“vacated”替换成“evacuated”（撤离）、“departed”（离开了）、“retired”（退休了）比较好，还是保留原句不做修改比较好。（正确的答案是“departed”。）
The test will last three hours, with another 50 minutes for an optional essay in which students will be asked to analyze a text and how the author builds an argument. The essays will be scored for reading, analysis and writing, and those scores will be reported separately from the other sections of the SAT. The current test includes a required 25-minute essay in which students are asked to take a position on an issue and which is graded without regard to factual accuracy.
考试时间持续三个小时。另外还有一篇50分钟的自选作文，要求学生们分析一段文章，并指出作者是如何阐述其论点的。阅卷的人将从阅读、分析和写作能力方面为作文打分，这些成绩将不会和SAT的其他部分出现在同一张成绩单上。目前的考试包括一篇25分钟的必选作文，要求学生们就某一问题阐述一个观点，作文的打分无需考虑其内容的真实、精确。
The new test will have a 65-minute critical reading section with 52 questions, a 35-minute written language test with 44 questions, and an 80-minute math section with 57 questions. The language and math sections will each be scored from 200 to 800, and the top composite score will be 1,600. While the current test allows calculator use, the new one will have some sections that do not. Also, instead of five multiple-choice answers, the new test will have four.
新SAT将包括一个65分钟的、包括52道问题的审辩阅读部分，一个35分钟的、包括44道问题的写作语言测试，以及一个80分钟的、包括57道问题的数学部分。语言和数学部分的评分从200到800，综合分数最高为1600。目前的考试允许使用计算器，而新考试中有一些部分不能使用计算器。并且，新考试中复选题的答案将从五个变为四个。
Interpreting graphs will be an important part of the test, not just in math, but in analyzing science and social science texts.
分析图表也将是新考试中的一项重要内容，不只是在数学部分，在分析科学和社会类试题时，也需要这一技巧。
Many of the college admissions officers who will be using the test results praised the effort to align the test with what students should be learning in high school, and what they will need to know to do well in college, but cautioned that it would be years before there was any evidence that the new SAT does a better job of predicting college performance than the current one.
理事会希望新考试和学生们应从中学教育学到的知识保持一致，也与他们未来在大学里能够表现优异所需的知识相一致。许多大学中以SAT考试成绩作为标准的招生负责人都对这种做法表示了认可，但也警告说，要检验新SAT考试在预测学生的大学表现方面是否优于目前的考试，得需要许多年才能得出任何证据。
“I like the desire on the part of the exam to assess students’ analytic skills, and the direction they’re taking with the changes in the essay,” said Christoph Guttentag, Duke University’s admissions director. “But we’ll still have to examine the evidence to see if there’s any change in the predictive validity within our context.”
“我欣赏新考试想要评估考生分析技巧的愿望，以及他们在调整作文部分的努力方向，” 杜克大学(Duke University)招生主任克里斯托夫·克腾塔格(Christoph Guttentag)说。“但我们还是需要检验证据，来考察在我们的背景之下，预测有效性上是否有任何变化。”
David Coleman, who is president and chief executive of the College Board, and spearheaded the process of revising the test, was a key architect of the Common Core state curriculum standards for schools, a set of guidelines being introduced — and often stirring controversy — in classrooms throughout the nation. And to some extent, the College Board’s vision of the new SAT continues that alignment.
戴维·科尔曼(David Coleman)是理事会的主席兼总裁，在SAT改革的全过程一直身先士卒。他是全美各校课堂所推出的一套——时常引发争议的——教学课程标准“共同核心标准”(Common Core)的关键设计者。从某种程度上来说，理事会对新SAT的设想延续了这一标准。
William Dingledine, an educational consultant in Greenville, S.C., said, “It’s a positive step that they’re trying to align the test with what students should be learning in school, and what they need for college, since the current SAT doesn’t do that very well, but it’s going to be interesting to see the SAT align with the Common Core standards while there are lots of states now trying to get rid of the Common Core.”
南卡罗来纳州格林维尔的教育顾问威廉·丁格丹(William Dingledine)说，“他们努力想让这项考试与学生们应从学校学到的知识和他们需要为大学教育准备的知识相一致，这是积极的一步，因为目前的SAT在这方面的表现不算出色。但是就在许多州想要废除共同核心标准的时候，我们却看到新SAT与共同核心标准一致，这将十分有趣。”
Many college admissions officers expressed skepticism about the College Board’s claim that the new SAT would narrow the gap between rich and poor students’ scores, and eliminate the edge gained through test preparation courses. Nor do they expect that the new test will hold any less stress for students.
理事会声称，新的SAT将缩小富学生和穷学生的差距，并消除可以通过备考课程所取得的成绩优势，但许多大学的招生负责人对此表示怀疑。他们也不相信，新考试会减少学生承受的压力。
Even if everyone becomes familiar with the format, said Jim Rawlins, director of admissions at the University of Oregon, “there’s still going to be a lot of anxiety, since it’s still a high-stakes test.”
俄勒冈大学(University of Oregon)招生主任吉姆·罗林斯(Jim Rawlins)说，即使人人都熟悉了这种模式，“还是会很焦虑，因为这毕竟是一项关键的考试。”
So what will be the effects of the new SAT?
那么新SAT将会带来怎样的效果？
“It’s like that SAT response: ‘cannot be determined with the information given,’ ” he said.
他说，“这就像那个SAT里的回答一样：‘无法就现有信息做出判断’。”