LONDON — After an abrupt end to a dramatic leadership struggle, Theresa May, the home secretary, emerged Monday as Britain’s next prime minister, winning responsibility for negotiating the nation’s withdrawal from the European Union, addressing deep political and social divisions and managing a slumping economy.
伦敦——周一，戏剧化的领导层之争戛然而止，英国内政大臣特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)成为该国下一任首相，脱欧谈判的重任由此落在她的肩上。她将负责应对深层的政治和社会分歧，还要面对经济滑坡的问题。
Her victory came on another day of rapid developments in British politics and set in motion a process that officials said would put her in 10 Downing Street by Wednesday night, succeeding David Cameron as prime minister. May, 59, would become the second woman to lead Britain, after Margaret Thatcher, who governed from 1979 to 1990.
这又是英国政坛风起云涌的一天，一项程序得以启动：官方表示该程序将使梅在周三夜里之前入主唐宁街10号，接替戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)成为首相。现年59岁的梅将成为继玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)之后英国的第二位女首相，后者曾在1979年至1990年间领导英国。
May is set to take over at a time of immense upheaval for Britain. The nation must not only negotiate its withdrawal from the European Union, but it must also hold itself together amid a renewed clamor from Scotland for independence.
梅将在英国出现急剧变动的时期走马上任。该国不仅必须与欧盟就退出问题进行谈判，还要在新一轮的苏格兰独立呼声中保持统一。
A Conservative like Thatcher, May has won a reputation for steeliness in her tenure as home secretary. She has pledged to negotiate a deal to leave the EU that reasserted Britain’s ability to control immigration, a central issue in the referendum on June 23 on whether to leave the bloc.
像撒切尔一样，梅也是一名保守党人，在担任内政大臣期间，她赢得了刚强的名声。她承诺，通过谈判达成的脱欧协议将使英国重获控制移民问题的能力，而这正是6月23日就是否脱欧进行的公投的核心议题。
May is seen as a relative political moderate and on Monday she promised to address inequality, give workers greater representation on corporate boards and limit tax cuts.
梅被看作政治上的相对温和派。周一，她承诺应对不平等的问题，让劳动者在企业董事会中获得更多代表权，同时限制减税。
May said that she was “honored and humbled” to be chosen for the job, promised to get the best deal over Britain’s exit from the EU and vowed to create an economy that works not for the “privileged few,” but for all.
对于当选这一职位，梅表示她感到“既荣幸，又谦卑”。她承诺在英国脱欧谈判中达成最佳协议，也发誓要打造一个并非为“少数特权阶层”服务而是让所有人受益的经济。
Cameron, who had supported remaining in the EU, said after the referendum that he would resign once the governing Conservatives selected a new leader, a process that he had expected to last until September.
支持留欧的卡梅伦在公投结束后表示，一旦执政的保守党选出一位新党魁，他将辞去首相之职。他原先预计这一程序会进行到9月。
After making a brief statement describing his successor as “strong” and “competent,” Cameron was caught on a microphone humming.
在做出简短的声明、将他的继任者描述为“强大”而“有能力”之后，麦克风捕捉到卡梅伦哼出了曲子。
Cameron’s statement completed a day of high political drama in which May’s rival for the Conservative Party leadership, Andrea Leadsom, the energy minister, withdrew from the race. Leading party members quickly coalesced around May, insisting that the contest should not be reopened.
卡梅伦的声明给政坛跌宕起伏的一天画上了句号。当天，与梅争夺保守党领导人位置的能源部副部长安德烈娅·利德索姆(Andrea Leadsom)退出竞争。这让保守党成员迅速联合在梅的周围，坚称不应重启另一场竞选。