As the United States Open winds down to its final chaotic days, another late-summer New York spectacle takes its place, one with its own crowds, prized seating spots, celebrity sightings and, of course, winners and losers. Yes, we are talking about New York Fashion Week. The spring/summer season is upon us, with more than 100 shows taking place between now and next Thursday, followed by the same again in London, Milan and Paris until the first week of October. Fashion month has become a cultural phenomenon as globally pervasive as the ginkgo tree. You can’t avoid it, so you may as well embrace it, and find out what you should be ready to discuss during cocktail parties and water cooler conversations everywhere. Indubitably, questions of geopolitics and the stagnant European economy are more important, but think of it this way: What happens at fashion week will inform in large part the shape — literally — your identity will take six months from now. So in the interests of self-awareness (anduseful banter), following is my crib sheet for what to watch, whom to know and where to focus during the collections.
经历了喧嚣的最后几天，美国网球公开赛终于落下了帷幕，纽约另一桩夏末盛事开始了：拥挤的人群、贵宾席、名人大场面，当然也免不了有赢家和输家。没错，我们说的就是纽约时装周。新一季春夏时装近在眼前，从今天到下周四，共有一百多场走秀，其后还有伦敦、米兰和巴黎时装周，一直要持续到十月的第一个星期。时装月已经成为一种文化现象，像银杏树一样遍及全球。你没法回避它，所以不妨接受它，再去找找鸡尾酒会上和平时八卦聊天里的谈资。没错，地缘政治和欧洲经济萧条问题更重要，但你得这么想：时装周上的事很大程度上预示着你六个月之后的样子。所以为了更好地了解自己，也为了找点有用的消遣，我在这儿列出最基本的纽约时装周观看指南：有什么名人应该知道，有什么地方值得关注。
Showtime
走秀时刻
While you can’t blame fashion’s ever-increasing move into entertainment on Ari Emanuel, the fact that the Hollywood agency William Morris Endeavor, which Mr. Emanuel co-runs, bought IMG last December, and along with it ownership of New York, London and Milan fashion weeks (among others), is surely speeding along the transformation. As it happens, Mr. Emanuel will be in the New York Fashion Week audience this season (the William Morris folks tell me he is very excited to come to shows) in part because fashion week’s contract with Lincoln Center ends after next February, and the powers that be are beginning to think about what shape it will take next. In the meantime Mr. Emanuel should not feel too much like a fish out of water, as this season a number of collections are taking an alternative approach to their presentations that may seem more familiar to him than to the fashion pack. (Maybe they are thinking of it as an audition?)
你不能抱怨阿里·伊曼纽尔(Ari Emanuel)让时装周变得愈来愈娱乐化，他参与经营的好莱坞经纪公司威廉-莫理斯奋进娱乐公司去年12月收购了IMG公司，此外还拥有纽约、伦敦和米兰等时装周的产权，肯定会加速这种娱乐化发展。伊曼纽尔碰巧还会是今年纽约时装周上的观众（威廉-莫里斯公司的员工告诉我，他兴奋地期待着去看走秀），部分是因为时装周和林肯中心的合同明年2月就到期了，当权者们开始思考时装周未来的走向。与此同时，伊曼纽尔不会有太多脱节感的，这一季，有很多时装发布会都在展示中采取了另类方法，对他来说可能比时装走秀亲切得多（也许时装发布者们觉得这是他们在伊曼纽尔面前的“试镜”吧）。
The London designer Gareth Pugh, for example, who normally shows in Paris, is coming to New York as part of the Lexus Design Disrupted program, and promising “an immersive live performance” to open the week on Thursday. It’s unclear exactly what that means (you have to see it to understand, I guess), but according to the designer, it will involve dancers and video.
比如说伦敦设计师加雷斯·皮尤(Gareth Pugh)，他的走秀通常安排在巴黎，这一次来到了纽约，成了雷克萨斯分裂设计(Lexus Design Disrupted)活动的一部分，将于本周四举行；他承诺带来一场“沉浸式现场表演”。这话到底是什么意思，目前前尚不明确（我想得亲眼看过才知道），但设计师说，走秀上会有舞蹈演员和视频。
Then, on Sunday, a mere few days after Mr. Pugh’s happening, Opening Ceremony will debut a 30-minute one-act play directed and co-written by Spike Jonze, featuring their costumes — sorry, collection. And on Monday, there’s a double bill. First, Olivier Saillard, the curator of the Palais Galliera in Paris, the city’s fashion museum, is putting on a piece of performance art in conjunction with the Alliance Francaise and MADE Fashion Week. Entitled “Models Never Talk,” it will feature seven French supermodels telling stories about extraordinary dress they have worn — giving voice to fashion’s normally voiceless. Next, a few hours later, Polo Ralph Lauren will hold an unspecified “fashion event” (note: not show) in Central Park.
距离皮尤的展示没几天了，在周日时装周的开幕典礼上，一出斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)导演及合写的独幕戏会举行首演，此外要注意演员们的戏服——哦不对，是他们发布的时装系列。星期一，有两项重要活动，先是巴黎时尚博物馆加列拉宫的策展人奥利维耶·赛亚尔(Olivier Saillard)会带来一项与法语联盟和MADE时装周有关的表演艺术。这个项目名叫“模特从不说话”，内容是七个法国超模讲述她们穿过的经典时装的故事，为通常无声的时装带来声音。几小时后，保罗·拉夫·劳伦(Polo Ralph Lauren)将在中央公园带来一场目前没有做详细说明的“时装盛会”（注：不是走秀）。
Forget the often complained about reality-TV-ification of fashion week courtesy of the street style craze; this takes the concept to a whole different level. It’s like “House of Cards” versus “America’s Got Talent.”
时装周上经常出现电视真人秀式的街拍狂热，为很多人诟病，不要去理会吧；这是不同层次上的东西。有点像《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)对《美国达人》(America’s Got Talent)。
Names to Know
要关注的名人
In New York, Michael Herz will debut his first runway collection as artistic director for Diane von Furstenberg. Mr. Herz was formerly co-creative director of Bally, and he met Ms. von Furstenberg when he curated her 40th anniversary “Journey of a Dress” exhibition in Los Angeles. This is something of a watershed moment for her — post-anniversary, she has an autobiography being released this autumn, and a reality TV show on E! — and one of the questions hovering over the brand is what happens next. The show, to be held Sunday, may provide some answers.
在纽约时装秀上，迈克尔·赫兹(Michael Herz)将以黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(Diane von Furstenberg)的艺术总监身份推出自己的首个时装系列。此前他是巴利(Bally)的联合创意总监，在洛杉矶为冯芙丝汀宝策划她的40周年纪念展“裙子的历程”时与之结识。这个展览标志着她的分水岭，她写了一本自传，今年秋天就要出版，另外还在E!电视台推出了电视真人秀——因此冯芙丝汀宝品牌的未来也就成了疑问。周日的这场秀或许可以提供点答案。
Also bowing behind-a-brand in New York this season is Anthony Vaccarello at Versus Versace, the latest hipster name to collaborate with the brand, a.k.a. be crowned as a hot-up-and-comer by Donatella Versace. In this, the 30-something Belgian-Italian designer, who shows his namesake line, known for its ‘80s-edged micro-hemlines and slick tailoring, in Paris, follows J.W. Anderson and Christopher Kane, both of whom have now hooked up with luxury conglomerates (LVMH and Kering respectively). Draw your own conclusions.
这一季纽约时装周品牌背后的故事还有安东尼·瓦卡莱洛(Anthony Vaccarello)在范瑟丝·范思哲(Versus Versace)的发展，范瑟丝·范思哲是最新与范思哲合作的时尚品牌，多娜泰拉·范思哲(Donatella Versace)说它前景一片光明。瓦卡莱洛是一位30多岁的比利时-意大利设计师，他自己的品牌以20世纪80年代风格的小镶边和流畅的裁剪著称，曾在巴黎时装周上紧随J·W·安德森(J.W. Anderson)和克里斯托弗·凯恩(Christopher Kane)之后展示，这两个品牌如今分别和LVMH和开云(Kering)这两个奢侈品大集团打得火热。到底会怎么样呢，你自己做判断吧。
Meanwhile, industry watchers will also be looking for answers at Proenza Schouler, thanks to recent rumors — thus far unsubstantiated — that LVMH is interested in buying a stake in the brand. If one of the group’s well-known executives were to show up in the audience, it would likely set off a firestorm of renewed speculation.
此外，最近有谣言（迄今尚未证实）说，LVMH公司有兴趣买下普罗恩萨·施罗(Proenza Schouler)品牌的股份，因此它也成了行业的观察者们的关注对象。如果LVMH的某位著名高管会出现在这个品牌的秀场，肯定会引发新一波的大猜测。
In London, eyes will be on Christopher Bailey, making his debut as both chief executive and chief creative officer at Burberry. At issue: whether the added pressures of being a chief executive have had any effect on the aesthetic direction of the brand. In the game of Who’s Wooing Who? Simone Rocha, known to be a designer atop the wish list of many a large group, will likewise have an audience to watch (ooh ... is that a Kering talent spotter I see? An LVMH executive?). And it will be interesting to parse the difference LVMH mentorship and money (300,000 euros) has made for Thomas Tait, recipient of the Group’s first Young Designers Prize.
在伦敦时装周，人们的目光会集中在克里斯托弗·贝利(Christopher Bailey)身上，出任博柏利(Burberry)首席执行官和首席创意总监之后，这是他首次推出系列。争议是：担任首席执行官的压力是否会影响品牌的美学方向。在“谁在支持谁”(Who’s Wooing Who?)电视游戏中，备受众多大品牌追捧的设计师西蒙娜·罗莎(Simone Rocha)肯定会赢得很多观众（啊……我是不是看到了开云的观察员？还有LVMH的执行官？）。对于获得LVMH集团的首个年轻设计师奖的托马斯·泰特(Thomas Tait)来说，LVMH的指导和集团提供的30万欧元奖金究竟造成了什么影响呢？仔细分析一下一定很有趣。
As for Milan, the new name on the schedule, or behind an old name on the schedule, is Jil Sander’s Rodolfo Paglialunga, who has the unenviable task of reviving a house that became something of a fashion punch line when its founder left last October for the third time (an anonymous team designed the collection for autumn/winter). His only competition for buzzy-generating brand of the week is, perhaps surprisingly, Roberto Cavalli, whose long journey toward selling a minority stake appears to finally be coming to fruition. Will some new investors be in the front row? This is the question.
米兰时装周上的新名字——或者说是旧品牌背后的新名字——是吉尔·桑达(Jil Sander)品牌的鲁道夫·帕里亚伦加(Rodolfo Paglialunga)，他担负着复兴品牌的艰巨任务，自从它的创始人去年10月第三次离开公司（一个匿名团队设计了品牌的秋冬时装），如今这个品牌已经成了时尚界的笑柄。在制造轰动方面，本周帕利亚伦加唯一的对手是罗伯特·卡沃利(Roberto Cavalli)，这或许很让人惊讶，卡沃利试图售出少数股份的长期努力似乎终于有成果了。他的走秀观众席前排会有新的投资者出现吗？这是个问题。
Which brings us to the last leg of the marathon (phew!) otherwise known as Paris. There the debuts to watch will be Jonathan Anderson at Loewe, where a wholesale revamp and up-tiering of the brand seems to be underway; David Koma at Thierry Mugler; and Julie de Libran at Sonia Rykiel. All three are tasked with breathing new life into floundering names whose to-ing-and-fro-ing under various designers for the last few seasons has been meaningfully eroding their brand equity.
这场漫长的时尚马拉松（天哪）终点站是巴黎。有很多首场走秀值得一看，比如乔纳森·安德森(Jonathan Anderson)为罗意威(Loewe)推出的系列，罗意威似乎正在进行整体翻新和上层重组；此外还有大卫·科玛(David Koma)为蒂埃里·穆勒(Thierry Mugler)推出的系列；以及朱莉·德利班(Julie de Libran)为索尼娅·里基尔(Sonia Rykiel)推出的系列。过去几年来这几个老品牌都在不断更换设计师，从而渐渐损害了它们的声誉，这三场走秀担负着为它们注入新活力的任务。
Finally, a farewell of sorts will take place at Hermès, where Christophe Lemaire will reveal his swan song for the brand (he is leaving to concentrate on his own line). He hasn’t been there that long — only four years — and he never really rocked the aesthetic Birkin boat, so audience tears will probably not be forthcoming à la Tom Ford departure from Gucci, but they will be watching the faces of the family members Axel Dumas (chief executive) and Pierre-Alexis Dumas (artistic director) to try to understand whether Mr. Lemaire left on the best, or slightly less salubrious, terms. Fittingly, it is the last big show of not only Paris, but the whole season. From endings come new beginnings.
最后的道别是爱马仕(Hermès)的走秀，克里斯托弗·勒梅尔(Christophe Lemaire)将带来他在这个品牌的天鹅之歌（他将离开，专注自己的品牌）。他在这个位子上只有四年，不算很久，从来也未能真正撼动柏金船形包的美学地位，所以观众们不太可能像汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)离开古驰(Gucci)时那样洒泪惜别，但他们会仔细观察首席执行官阿克塞尔·杜马(Axel Dumas)和艺术总监皮埃尔-亚历克西·杜马(Pierre-Alexis Dumas)这些爱马仕家族成员们脸上的表情，判断勒梅尔是不是好聚好散的。这不仅是巴黎时装周的最后一场走秀，也是整个时装季的最后一场走秀。从终结走向全新的开始。