WASHINGTON — In May 2010, when the United Nations Security Council was weighing sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program, several members were undecided about how they would vote. The American ambassador to the United Nations, Susan E. Rice, asked the National Security Agency for help “so that she could develop a strategy,” a leaked agency document shows.
华盛顿——2010年5月，当联合国安理会考虑是否要因为伊朗的核计划而制裁该国的时候，数个理事国的投票意向悬而未决。一份泄露出来的国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）文件显示，当时的美国驻联合国大使苏珊·E·赖斯(Suan E. Rice)请求NSA的协助，“以便她制定应对策略”。
The N.S.A. swiftly went to work, developing the paperwork to obtain legal approval for spying on diplomats from four Security Council members — Bosnia, Gabon, Nigeria and Uganda — whose embassies and missions were not already under surveillance. The following month, 12 members of the 15-seat Security Council voted to approve new sanctions, with Lebanon abstaining and only Brazil and Turkey voting against.
NSA很快投入工作，起草出了监控四个理事国外交官所需的法律文件。这四个国家分别为波黑、加蓬、尼日利亚和乌干达，而它们的使馆及使团此前并未处于监控之下。到了6月，15个理事国中，12个投票赞成实施新的制裁措施，黎巴嫩弃权，仅有巴西和土耳其投了反对票。
Later that summer, Ms. Rice thanked the agency, saying its intelligence had helped her to know when diplomats from the other permanent representatives — China, England, France and Russia — “were telling the truth ... revealed their real position on sanctions ... gave us an upper hand in negotiations ... and provided information on various countries ‘red lines.’ ”
当年夏天的晚些时候，赖斯对NSA表达了谢意，称其情报帮助自己知晓了中国、英国、法国和俄罗斯这四个常任理事国的外交官“是否在说真话……揭示了它们在制裁问题上的真实立场……让我们在谈判中占了上风……提供了多个国家的‘底线’信息。”
The two documents laying out that episode, both leaked by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden, are reproduced in a new book by Glenn Greenwald, “No Place to Hide: Edward Snowden, the N.S.A., and the U.S. Surveillance State.” The book is being published Tuesday.
描述这一事件的两份文件均由NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露出来，并出现在了格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的新书中。这本书名为《无处藏身：爱德华·斯诺登、NSA与监控国家》(No Place to Hide: Edward Snowden, the N.S.A., and the U.S. Surveillance State)，定于周二出版。
Elements of the N.S.A.’s role in helping aid American diplomatic negotiations leading up to the Iran sanctions vote had been previously reported, including in an October 2013 article in the French newspaper Le Monde that focused on the agency’s spying on French diplomats.
之前已有报道揭露了一些情节，指出在制裁伊朗的投票前，NSA对美国外交谈判起到了协助作用。比如，法国《世界报》(Le Monde)2013年10月的一篇文章，重点探讨了NSA对法国外交官的监控。
Mr. Greenwald’s book also reproduces a document listing embassies and missions that had been penetrated by the N.S.A., including those of Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, the European Union, France, Georgia, Greece, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Slovakia, South Africa, South Korea, Taiwan, Venezuela and Vietnam. Aspects of that document were reported in June by The Guardian.
格林沃尔德的新书中呈现的另一份文件列出了NSA已经渗透的使馆与使团名单，其中包括巴西、保加利亚、哥伦比亚、欧盟、法国、格鲁吉亚、希腊、印度、意大利、日本、墨西哥、斯洛文尼亚、南非、韩国、台湾、委内瑞拉和越南。这份文件的部分内容曾由《卫报》在去年6月报道。
Revelations about N.S.A. spying abroad, including on officials of American allies, has fueled anger at the United States. But Caitlin Hayden, an N.S.A. spokeswoman, noted that President Obama sought to address those issues in January when he promised greater limits on spying aimed at allies and partners.
NSA在海外的监控活动，包括针对盟国领导人的监控的曝光，激起了外界对美国的怒火。不过，NSA女发言人凯特琳·海登(Caitlin Hayden)指出，奥巴马总统正在寻求应对这些问题，今年1月，他承诺将对监控盟国及合作伙伴施加更多限制。
“While our intelligence agencies will continue to gather information about the intentions of governments — as opposed to ordinary citizens — around the world, in the same way that the intelligence services of every other nation do, we will not apologize because our services may be more effective,” she said.
“我们的情报机构将继续搜集关于世界各国政府意图的信息，并不针对普通公民，这与任何其他国家的情报部门的所作所为别无二致，我们不会因为本国的机构或许最有效率而道歉，”她说。
Ms. Rice’s request for help in May 2010 was recounted in an internal report by the security agency’s Special Source Operations division, which works with telecommunications companies on the American network.
赖斯于2010年5月提出的协助请求被详细记录在NSA的特殊来源行动部门(Special Source Operations)的一份内部报告中。该部门与电信企业合作，监控美国的相关网络。
A legal team was called in on May 22 to begin drawing up the paperwork for the four court orders, one for each of the four countries on the Security Council whose embassies and missions were apparently not yet under surveillance. A judge signed them on May 26.
5月22日，法律团队被召集起来，开始起草申请四项法庭指令的文件，每一项针对的是安理会的一个理事国。这四个国家的使馆与使团当时似乎尚未处于监控之下。5月26日，一名法官签署了指令。
The internal report showing that the N.S.A. obtains country-specific orders from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to eavesdrop on their diplomatic facilities may shed light on a murky document published in March by Der Spiegel. It showed that the court had issued an order authorizing spying on “Germany” on March 7, 2013, and listed several other countries whose orders were about to expire.
这份内部报告显示，NSA从外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)获得了针对特定国家的指令，以便监控它们的外交设施。这或许会为解读《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)今年3月公布的一份模糊文件提供线索。文件显示，法庭于2013年3月7日签发了指令，授权监控“德国”，此外还列出了指令即将过期的其他几个国家的名单。
The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act does not authorize the court to issue orders for broad monitoring of specific countries. It does authorize orders for specific “foreign powers” operating on American soil, which expire after a year.
《外国情报监视法案》(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act)并未授权该法庭签署命令进行针对特定国家的广泛监控。不过，法案的确授权签署针对在美国领土上活动的特定“外国势力”的法庭指令，这种指令的有效期为一年。