THE HIGHEST GLASS CEILINGWomen’s Quest for the American PresidencyBy Ellen Fitzpatrick318 pp. Harvard University Press. $25.95.
《最高的玻璃天花板：女性谋求美国总统席位》(The Highest Glass Ceiling: Women’s Quest for the American Presicency)。艾伦·菲茨帕特里克(Ellen Fitzpatrick)著。共318页，哈佛大学出版社。25.95美元。
One night eight years ago in New Hampshire, when guys at a Hillary Clinton rally unfurled signs reading “Iron My Shirt,” the presidential candidate asked to have the lights turned up and laughed, “The remnants of sexism — alive and well!”
八年前在新罕布什尔的一个晚上，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选集会上，有一群人带来了标语，上书“给我熨衬衫”，这位总统候选人让工作人员把灯光打在这个标语上，笑了起来，“性别歧视的残余——活生生的好例子！”
Ellen Fitzpatrick, a historian and frequent PBS commentator, chooses this scene to open her book “The Highest Glass Ceiling: Women’s Quest for the American Presidency,” which traces the careers of Victoria Woodhull, Margaret Chase Smith and Shirley Chisholm, three of the most successful women (there have been more than 200) to have campaigned for the presidency. The Iron My Shirt moment, which came to stand as an easy emblem of the hard-to-describe gender bias faced by Clinton in her 2008 race, here provides a quick illustration of what a long strange trip toward the White House it’s been for America’s women.
历史学家与PBS台的长期时事评论员艾伦·菲茨帕特里克(Ellen Fitzpatrick)选择了这一幕作为自己的新书《最高的玻璃天花板：女性谋求总统席位》的开头，这本书追溯了维多利亚·伍德霍尔(Victoria Woodhull)、玛格丽特·蔡斯·史密斯(Margaret Chase Smith)和雪莉·奇瑟姆(Shirley Chisholm)这三位竞选总统最成功的女性的事迹（总共有200多位）。“熨衬衫”那一刻如同一个轻松的象征，代表了克林顿在2008年竞选期间遇到的难以描述的性别偏见，为美国女性走向白宫的漫长奇异之路提供了一帧简单的速写。
But the moment I think better illustrates why Fitzpatrick’s history is an urgent, crucial contribution took place a few days after the Iron My Shirt episode. It was when Hillary staged a surprise upset in New Hampshire, becoming the first woman in American history to win a fully contested presidential primary. (Chisholm won a nonbinding preferential primary in New Jersey in 1972, though most of her Democratic competitors were not on the ballot against her.) In the wake of Clinton’s historic victory, major news organizations, including The New York Times and CNN, failed to mention the milestone in their day-after coverage.
但是，菲茨帕特里克的史书为何如此迫切、关键，我认为能够更好说明这一点的时刻发生在“熨衬衫”插曲之后的几日。在新罕布什尔，希拉里成了美国历史上第一位在完整竞争中赢得总统初选的女性，这引发了一阵奇怪的不安（1972年，奇瑟姆在新泽西赢得了一场无约束力的总统初选，尽管她的大部分民主党竞争者没有参选）。在克林顿获得这个历史性胜利后，包括《纽约时报》和CNN在内的各大新闻机构都没有在翌日的报道中指出这个里程碑性的意义。
We have some trouble, in this country, with women’s history: celebrating it, making it central to our national narrative, remembering to notice when it is being made around us.
在这个国家，要想庆祝女性的历史，让它成为国家故事的核心，当女性创造历史的时候记得提起它……这些仍然是困难的。
By the time this review is published, Clinton may (or may not!) have clinched the Democratic primaries, making her the first woman ever nominated by a major party for the presidency. At which point many of us will put one hand over our eyes, one hand on the safety rail, open our mouths in a silent scream and just try to hang on through November.
这篇书评发表之时，克林顿可能已经赢得了民主党初选（也可能没有），成为第一位被主要党派提名为总统候选人的女性。这一刻，我们许多人可能会一手捂住眼睛，另一手扶住护栏，嘴巴张得大大的，却发不出声音，等候着11月大选的到来。
No matter what, we’ll learn something from “The Highest Glass Ceiling,” a book unlikely to calm any nerves, but which will at least put our gendered anxieties in historical perspective.
不管怎样，我们都能从《最高的天花板》中学到东西，这本书不太可能平复焦虑，但是至少把我们的性别焦虑放在了历史角度来看待。
Fitzpatrick spends one chapter on each of her subjects, beginning with Woodhull, whose tale is the weirdest of the bunch. A twice-married stockbroker who dabbled as a clairvoyant, associated with free-love advocates, nominated herself for the presidency in 1870, and then published a newspaper to support her candidacy, Woodhull spent two years on the campaign trail, a half-century before American women won the right to vote. Called by one newspaper “the frisky Wall Street heifer,” Woodhull also railed against the “insatiable avarice” of “obese corporations” and the “despotism” of banks and railroads; she’s a figure whose apparent contradictions feel familiar.
菲茨帕特里克为笔下的每个人物都写了一章，先是从伍德霍尔开始，她的故事也是最奇异的。她是个结过两次婚的股票交易商，涉猎过通灵术，和性爱自由的倡导者们来往密切。1870年她提名自己为总统候选人，之后出版了一份报纸，支持自己竞选。伍德霍尔花费两年时间做竞选宣传，这还是美国女性获得选举权50年前的事情。一家报纸称她是“胡闹的华尔街小母牛”，伍德霍尔攻击“大公司”的“贪得无厌”，以及银行和铁路公司的“专制”，她身上明显的矛盾之处让人觉得很熟悉。
Spoiler: She didn’t win.
剧透：最后她没能获胜。
Fitzpatrick’s next subject, Maine’s formidable Margaret Chase Smith, gained her seat in Congress via the “widow’s mandate” in 1940. Smith was the first woman elected to the Senate in her own right and the first to serve in both ­houses of Congress. She was hilariously ­single-minded: Dispatched in 1938 as her dying anti-interventionist husband’s surrogate, Smith simply began giving speeches in opposition to him, advocating increased military spending in the lead-up to the war. Smith governed with so little regard for party line — ­advocating the use of nuclear weapons against North Korea and China alongside support of labor unions; sharply denouncing Joseph McCarthy’s Communist witch hunt from the Senate floor but supporting the ­McCarran Act — that one of her Republican colleagues would say, “If she votes with us, it is a coincidence.”
菲茨帕特里克的下一个人物是缅因州强悍的玛格丽特·蔡斯·史密斯，1940年，她通过“遗孀授权”获得议员席位。史密斯是第一个凭自己的力量当选参议员的女性，也是第一个在参众两院都工作过的女人。她性格里的一根筋有点好笑：她去世的丈夫奉行反干涉主义，1938年，她被派遣作为他的代表发言，却做了一通反对他的讲话，鼓吹为即将到来的战争增加军费。史密斯的政治主张完全不顾党派路线，在联合国军与美国对抗朝鲜和中国的战争中，她主张使用核武器；她一边谴责约瑟夫·麦卡锡(Joseph McCarthy)在参议院中猎捕共产党人，一边又支持麦卡伦法案(McCarran Act)。她的一个共和党同事说：“如果她和我们投票一致，那纯属巧合。”
For years the only woman in the Senate, Smith was forced to use the public restroom since there was no ladies’ room; she regularly declined White House invitations because she was never invited to bring a male companion. In one of the book’s loveliest details, Fitzpatrick writes of how, when Jackie Kennedy explicitly suggested that Smith might bring a date, Smith wrote to her, “This is one of the most thoughtful things ever done in my 25 years in Washington.” But if gendered loneliness affected Smith, she gave no sign. “I ignored any discrimination,” Fitzpatrick quotes Smith as saying. “I never, never acknowledged it. Never.”
多年来，史密斯是参议院中唯一的女人，她被迫使用男厕所，因为参议院中没有女厕所；她经常拒绝白宫的邀请，因为白宫从未邀请她携男伴参加。菲茨帕特里克的书中有很多可爱的细节，其中一则写道，杰姬·肯尼迪直白地建议史密斯携带约会对象一起来，史密斯写信给她说，“这是我在华盛顿25年来遇到的最体贴的事。”但她并没受到性别上势单力孤的影响。“我无视任何歧视，”菲茨帕特里克引用史密斯的话，“我从来，从来就没意识到它，从来没有。”
Of Smith, who ran for the Republican nomination in 1964, Fitzpatrick writes: “Surely no woman in American history before her, and few after, brought such rich and deep experience in mainstream electoral politics to a run for the presidency.” Yet her run barely made a dent; born in 1897 and running in an age of youthful Kennedy enthusiasm, Smith was of another era. And then there was the Times columnist Russell Baker, musing bizarrely about the widowed Smith’s “first man”: “At every airport stop, he will have to be photographed accepting huge bouquets of roses. Women reporters will badger him for his favorite recipes and advice on child care.”
1964年，史密斯谋求共和党总统提名席位，菲茨帕特里克写道：“在她之前，从没有一个美国女性在主流选举政治领域拥有这样丰富深刻的经验，可以竞选总统席位，在她之后也寥寥无几。”然而她的竞选遇到了打击，她生于1897年，当时人们正疯狂迷恋年轻的肯尼迪，史密斯完全属于另一个时代。当时《纽约时报》的专栏作家罗素·贝克(Russell Baker)对孀居的史密斯的“第一丈夫”做了一番遐想：“每一次在机场，他都会面向大堆迎接他的玫瑰花摆姿势拍照。女记者们簇拥着他，问他最喜欢的食物，要他介绍育儿经验。”
Spoiler: She didn’t win.
剧透：她也没能获胜。
Four years after Smith became the first woman to have her name entered into nomination at her party’s convention, Shirley Chisholm became the first black woman elected to Congress, despite The Wall Street Journal’s concern that sending her to the House “might tend to perpetuate the matriarchal society said to prevail in the Negro slums.” When she got to Washington, Chisholm was promptly appointed to the Agriculture Committee. “Apparently all they know here in Washington about Brooklyn is that a tree grew there,” she remarked, before objecting and getting reassigned to Veterans Affairs.
史密斯毕竟成了第一个名列党派大会总统提名人行列的女人，四年之后，雪莉·奇瑟姆成了第一个入选国会的黑人女性。尽管《华尔街日报》担心她进入众议院“可能导致黑人贫民区据说正在蔓延的母系社会结构的固化。”来到华盛顿后，奇瑟姆被分配到农业委员会。“显然华盛顿对布鲁克林的全部了解就是那里有棵树，”她评价道。之后她对此表示反对，并被重新分配到退伍军人事务委员会。
Fitzpatrick covers Chisholm’s frustration with sexism and bigotry from her own progressive peers, and her disappointment with some of her feminist colleagues, including her National Women’s Political Caucus co-founders Betty Friedan, Bella Abzug and Gloria Steinem, all of whom offered sometimes too tepid support during her historic 1972 run for the Democratic nomination.
菲茨帕特里克写了奇瑟姆面临性别歧视和偏见的困惑，这些偏见来自她那些同样主张进步的同僚；她对自己的女权主义同事们也非常失望，其中就包括与她共同创立了国家妇女参政小组(National Women’s Political Caucus)的贝蒂·弗里丹(Betty Friedan)、贝拉·阿布佐格(Bella Abzug)与格劳丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)。1972年，奇瑟姆历史性地竞选民主党提名时，她们三个对她的支持都有点不冷不热。
Spoiler: She didn’t win.
剧透：她也没能获胜。
Some of the threads Fitzpatrick traces through her subjects’ stories prove disheartening. She writes of how Woodhull attributed her career in politics to a spirit who had appeared to her in childhood and prophesied “that she would become the ruler of her people,” while Smith’s explanation of her success was a vague nod to destiny: “It was just to be and I had little to do about it.” And while no one would describe Hillary Clinton as a shrinking violet, recall her aw-shucks assertion during a recent debate: “I never thought I’d be standing on a stage here asking people to vote for me for president.” It’s a reminder of how hard it remains for women to simply admit to ambition.
菲茨帕特里克描写书中人物的一些线索令人沮丧。她写了伍德霍尔把自己从政的原因归结为一个童年时显灵的幽魂，它预言“她会成为人民的统治者”；而史密斯解释，自己的成功多少带有宿命的成分：“一切就是这样发生，我没做太多事情。”没有人会觉得希拉里·克林顿是一个内向羞怯的人，但她在前不久的一次辩论中腼腆地说：“我从不觉得自己应当站在这里的讲台之上，要求人们选我做总统。”这让人觉得女人要想直接承认野心，仍然是非常困难的事情。
Which is part of why Chisholm’s voice remains so electrifying. Speaking of her rise through ward politics, Chisholm explained without apology: “I had done it all to help other people get elected. The other people who got elected were men, of course, because that was the way it was in politics. . . . I was the best-qualified nominee, and I was not going to be denied because of my sex.”
所以奇瑟姆的声音才是那样振聋发聩。谈起她在政界的崛起，奇瑟姆丝毫没有愧疚之意：“我尽一切努力帮别人赢得选举，当然，那些人都是男人，因为政治就是这样……我才是最合格的候选人，我不应该只因为性别就被拒之门外。”
Fitzpatrick doesn’t end on Chisholm, but instead returns to Clinton in an epilogue. Fitzpatrick’s citation of her famous 2008 concession speech, about all the cracks in that high ceiling, is difficult reading these days, especially the part about how “the light is shining through like never before, filling us all with the hope and the sure knowledge that the path will be a little easier next time.”
菲茨帕特里克并没有在奇瑟姆这一章止步，而是在尾声中回到了克林顿。菲茨帕特里克引述她2008年那段著名的退选演讲，就是玻璃天花板上的裂缝的那一段。如今，这些话令人难以卒读，特别是这段“而阳光从未如今天一样倾洒而下，使我们每个人充满希望，而且确信下一次的征途要平坦很多。”
Mmm. We’ll see about that. For now, Fitzpatrick’s smartly timed book should remind us not to let whatever history we make just pass us by.
嗯，我们拭目以待吧。如今，菲茨帕特里克这本适时推出的书可以提醒我们，不要让亲手缔造的历史与我们擦肩而过。