WASHINGTON — President Obama has settled on Ashton B. Carter to be the next defense secretary, senior administration officials said on Tuesday, but is not prepared to announce the move because the White House has not completed its vetting of him.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府的高级官员周二表示，总统已经选定提名阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)担任下一任国防部长，但是白宫还没有完成对他的背景调查工作，所以目前尚未准备好予以公布。
A former deputy defense secretary with a long history at the Pentagon — though no uniformed military service — Mr. Carter was on a short list of prospective defense secretaries from the moment that Chuck Hagel announced his resignation, under pressure, on Nov. 24.
作为前国防部副部长，卡特与五角大楼有着很深的渊源——虽然他未曾在军队服役。自查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)于11月24日被迫宣布辞职以来，卡特就上了国防部长候选人的决选名单。
Mr. Obama is not expected to formally announce Mr. Carter as his pick on Tuesday or Wednesday, but may do so by the end of the week, an administration official said.
奥巴马政府的一名官员称，总统应该不会在周二或周三正式宣布提名人，但可能会在本周结束前这样做。
Mr. Carter, a physicist, was the No. 2 civilian official at the Pentagon and a candidate to succeed Leon E. Panetta when he stepped down as defense secretary last year. Previously, he served as the Defense Department’s chief weapons buyer, tasked with scaling back or canceling outdated and inefficient weapons programs. He also was in charge of carrying out $500 billion in cuts that began in 2012 and will take more than a decade to complete.
身为物理学家的卡特，曾为国防部的二号文职官员。利昂·E·帕内塔(Leon E. Panetta)去年卸任国防部长一职时，卡特是接替他的人选之一。此前，卡特在国防部负责武器采购，任务包括缩减或取消过时及低效的武器项目。他还负责执行国防部5000亿美元（约合3万亿元人民币）的开支削减。这一削减计划始于2012年，预计需要十多年的时间完成。
Mr. Carter has degrees in physics and medieval history from Yale and a doctorate in theoretical physics from Oxford. He has spent the last two years in academia but is widely viewed as a competent manager who would have little trouble in Senate confirmation hearings.
卡特从耶鲁获得了物理学及中世纪史学的学位，后在牛津获得了理论物理学博士学位。过去两年里，他在学术界从事研究。不过外界普遍认为，他管理国防部将很称职，不会在参议院的提名确认听证会上遇到什么麻烦。
Several Republican congressional leaders were preparing statements on Tuesday in praise of Mr. Carter, even before the White House had formally notified anyone that he had been selected. “The assumption is that it’s him,” one congressional staff member said. “And he won’t have trouble getting confirmed.”
周二，共和党的几名国会领导人在准备赞扬卡特的声明，尽管白宫尚未正式通知任何人他已经被选定。“大家觉得应该就是他，”一名国会助理说。“他会顺利通过听证会。”
But in many ways, Mr. Carter was the last man left standing for the top Pentagon post, after a number of candidates withdrew from consideration. Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, asked not to be considered, and Michèle A. Flournoy, a former Pentagon under secretary, did the same, citing family concerns. Jeh C. Johnson, the secretary of Homeland Security, who also has been mentioned as a candidate, said he was happy in his present job.
不过，从很多方面来看，卡特是仅剩的一名五角大楼最高职位的候选人，因为好几名潜在人选主动退出了竞争。来自罗得岛州的民主党参议员杰克·瑞德(Jack Reed)要求将自己排除在考虑范围外，而前国防部副部长米歇尔·A·弗卢努瓦(Michèle A. Flournoy)援引家庭原因提出了同样的要求。同样被提到的国土安全部部长杰·C·约翰逊(Jeh C. Johnson)则表示，他很满意目前的工作。
Selecting Mr. Johnson, who was the Pentagon’s chief lawyer during Mr. Obama’s first administration and who spearheaded the repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy concerning gay men and lesbians in the military, would have set up not one, but two, potentially bloody confirmation fights. Mr. Johnson is a controversial figure among Mr. Obama’s supporters on the left because he was one of the legal architects of the administration’s war policy. And Republicans, who are angry about Mr. Obama’s executive action on immigration, could try to hold up a nominee to the top Homeland Security job until the immigration issue is resolved to their liking.
在奥巴马的第一任期内，约翰逊曾担任国防部的首席法律顾问，牵头废除了军中有关同性恋的“不问不说”政策。提名约翰逊的话，或将引发两场——而不仅是一场——血腥的确认大战。在奥巴马的左翼支持者的眼中，约翰逊是一个具有争议的人物，因为他是为奥巴马政府的战争政策提供法律基础的一名主要顾问。在共和党人这边，由于对奥巴马在移民问题上动用行政令感到不满，他们可能会努力阻碍任何提名人获得国土安全部部长的职位，直到移民问题达成令他们满意的解决方案。