TBILISI, Georgia — Scott Mi, a businessman from western China, stood on a balcony on one of the nine completed towers of 27 that his company plans to build and gestured toward the distant hilltop boundary of his improbable domain — a new, Chinese-built city rising atop one of the most volatile geopolitical fault lines left by the collapse of the Soviet Union.
格鲁吉亚第比利斯——来自中国西部的商人米恩华(Scott Mi)站在一幢高楼的阳台上，这是已建成的九座楼之一，他指着自己这片领地远处山顶的边界，在那里，他的公司计划建造27座大楼。苏联解体后，留下了一个最不稳定的地缘政治断层，正是在这个断层的沿线，出现了一个不大可能的东西：一个新的、中国建造的城市。
“Everything you can see is ours,” said Mr. Mi, the 32-year-old head of Hualing Group Georgia, a privately owned but mostly state-funded company in the vanguard of an effort by China to extend its economic reach into the rocky and often treacherous ground of the Caucasus.
“你能看到的东西都是我们的，”32岁的米恩华说，他是华凌集团总裁，这是一家私人公司，但公司的大多数资金来自政府。中国正在把经济扩张到不稳定的、常有潜在危险的高加索地区，在这样的努力中，华凌格鲁吉亚是先锋。
At the center of this push stands the Tbilisi Sea New City, a huge property development outside the Georgian capital. It is nearly 200 miles from the nearest sea, but it does sit next to a Soviet-era reservoir, a body of water that adds a splash of color to the growing parade of concrete towers, a huge five-star hotel with the region’s biggest ballroom and, just down the road, a newly built shopping center as long as five football fields.
公司在这里推出的一个核心项目是第比利斯海新城，这是位于格鲁吉亚首都外围的一个巨大的地产开发项目。虽然这里距最近的海有300多公里远，但的确坐落在一片水域旁，那是苏联时代的一个水库，水库为正在盖起来的一排排混凝土大楼增添了一点色彩。项目还包括一个大型五星级酒店，酒店里有该地区最大的舞厅。不远的地方还有一个新建的购物中心，占地长度堪比五个足球场。
The rebranding of a man-made reservoir as a sea is all part of an outsize project that defies conventional, or at least Western, business thinking.
用人造水库打出海的牌子，是这个超大项目构思的一部分，这种构思超越了传统的，至少是西方的商业思维。
It is introducing Chinese-style economics to a country that, depending on your perspective, is either a critical link in a “new Silk Road” between Asia and Europe or a cockpit of unresolved and potentially explosive rivalry between Moscow and the West.
项目把中国式经济引入到这样一个国家，取决于你的视角，这个国家或是连接欧亚大陆“新丝绸之路”的一个关键环节，或是莫斯科与西方未决的、可能引起爆炸性反应的争夺战的驾驶舱。
In the 25 years since it broke from the Soviet Union and declared itself an independent state, Georgia has endured civil war, the loss of two regions to Russian-backed separatists and, in 2008, a brief Russian invasion. Russian tanks halted just 20 miles from Tbilisi.
在苏联解体、格鲁吉亚宣布自己是一个独立国家之后的25年里，该国经历了内战，把两个地区输给了由俄罗斯支持的分裂分子，还在2008年发生过一次短暂的俄罗斯入侵事件。当时俄罗斯的坦克一直开到距离第比利斯30多公里的地方才停了下来。
But what had been a noisy two-way struggle for influence and profit between Moscow and Washington has quietly expanded into a three-ring event that has left China with the most visible role.
但是，这个莫斯科与华盛顿为争夺影响力和利润进行过嘈杂的双方斗争的地方，已经悄然扩展为一个三方角逐的战场，这场角逐使中国在该地区起到了最明显的作用。
Mr. Mi’s new city has done nothing less than transplant a patch of China lock, stock and barrel onto previously barren land. Down to its ornamental rock gardens, rigidly geometric street plan and high perimeter wall, it is a nearly exact replica of the property projects that transformed China’s urban landscape before a recent downturn began to curb a flood of funding for construction.
米恩华的新城所做的，简直就是把一小块中国全盘照搬到这片曾经的不毛之地上。小到观赏性石头花园，大到死板的几何形街道规划和围绕小区的高墙，新城是那些改变了中国城市景观的地产项目几乎一模一样的复制品，由于最近经济不景气，限制了大量建筑资金的流入，中国国内的这种项目也随之受到影响。
This is hardly surprising since most of the design and building work at the Tbilisi Sea New City has been done by workers from China, even though wages in Georgia are often lower than in much of China.
这并不奇怪，因为第比利斯海新城的大部分设计和建造工作都是由中国工人完成的，虽然格鲁吉亚的工资通常低于中国的大部分地区。
“You can’t make any money here,” complained Liu Peiyun, a construction worker from the central Chinese region of Henan, slapping plaster on an entryway to the new city’s expanding residential section. He said he had hoped to get work in Britain but had been sent to Georgia instead. He wished he had stayed at home.
“你在这里赚不到什么钱，”来自河南省中部的建筑工人刘培云（音）抱怨道。当时他正在这座新城仍在开发中的住宅区的入口处抹灰泥。刘培云说自己原本希望去英国工作，却被派到格鲁吉亚。他宁可留在国内。
The use of Chinese workers initially stirred anger and even small protests. Those feelings have since faded amid dismay and also delight that, unlike many other grand plans in Georgia, the Chinese project is really happening and is now providing management and other jobs to Georgians.
使用中国工人最初引发了当地人的愤怒，甚至还出现了小规模的抗议。这些情绪后来淡化为沮丧，也有一些人开始感到高兴，因为与格鲁吉亚的很多其他宏伟计划不一样，中国的项目是真正地在进行，而且它正在给格鲁吉亚人提供管理及其他岗位。
In contrast to the crumbling, Soviet-style apartment blocks in a nearby suburb of Tbilisi — buildings that look as if they began falling down before they were even fully built — the Chinese company offers clean if basic modern towers with elevators that work and corridors that do not smell of urine.
与第比利斯郊区邻近的一些破旧苏式公寓楼相比——它们看起来好像还没竣工就开始衰败了，中国公司建设的现代化塔楼虽说简单，但很规整，电梯也可以使用，而且走廊里没有尿骚味。
“We are Chinese, so we build like in China,” Mr. Mi said, sitting in the shiny marble-clad lobby of his company’s luxury hotel.
“我们是中国人，所以我们像在中国那样施工，”米恩华坐在公司旗下豪华酒店的闪亮大理石大堂里说道。
Nearly all the apartments of the residential towers built so far have been sold, many of them to the Georgian government to house refugees from territory seized by Russian-backed rebels.
到目前为止，他们修建的住宅塔楼里公寓几乎售罄，其中很多被格鲁吉亚政府买走，用来安置那些来自被俄罗斯支持的叛军占领区的难民。
But the whole place is often eerily empty. The only noise on a recent afternoon was the distant clatter of construction and the bustle of security guards preparing for the arrival of the Chinese ambassador and Georgian leaders at a celebration of China’s national day in the hotel’s expansive ballroom.
但整个地方常常空得离奇。近日一个下午，这里唯一的声音就是远处的施工噪声，以及保安人员忙着做准备的喧闹声，因为中国大使和格鲁吉亚领导人将抵达这家酒店豪华的宴会厅，参加中国国庆的庆祝活动。
The economic calculus behind the project, like that of many ventures financed by Chinese state banks, is something of a mystery.
就像中国国有银行资助的很多企业一样，这个项目背后的经济考量也是一个谜。
Georgia’s prime minister, Giorgi Kvirikashvili, a former banker, said he had not done a detailed study of its “internal rate of return” — bankers’ jargon for profitability — but assumed “there has to be an economic rationale.”
格鲁吉亚总理乔治·克维里卡什维利(Giorgi Kvirikashvili)曾在银行业工作，他说自己没有详细研究过该项目的“内部收益率”——银行业对利润率的术语——但他推测“必然有经济上的依据”。
Mr. Mi, who is the son of the founder and president of Hualing’s parent company back in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, first came to Georgia right after the 2008 war with Russia. He acknowledged that there were initially doubts about the wisdom of sinking money into such a troubled land.
华凌的母公司位于中国西部的新疆，米恩华是其创始人和总裁的儿子，在格鲁吉亚和俄罗斯2008年的战争结束后，他首次来到了这里。米恩华承认，最初有人怀疑在这样一个混乱的地方投资是否明智。
“Of course, some people thought this was crazy,” he said.
“当然，有些人认为这是疯了，”他说。
But he said the company, while not yet making a profit, liked Georgia’s low taxes and business environment, and so would keep expanding. It has already built nine tower blocks under a deal with the Georgian government that gave it more than 1,000 acres around the Tbilisi reservoir in return for the construction of housing for athletes who took part in a sporting event last year.
不过他表示，该公司虽然还没有盈利，却很喜欢格鲁吉亚的低税率和商业环境，因此还会不断扩大。他们与格鲁吉亚政府签订了一个协议，公司去年为一个体育赛事的参赛者修建了住处，作为回报，政府在第比利斯水库周围拨给他们超过400公顷的土地，公司已经在那里建好了九座塔楼。
Hualing has now started work on six more towers and has plans for the remaining 12. The company also wants to set up a school, a medical clinic and other facilities to create a self-contained, Chinese-style gated community.
华凌现在又在修建六座新的塔楼，并制定了修建其余12座塔楼的规划。该公司还想修一所学校、一家医院以及其他设施，来打造一个独立的、中国式的带门禁社区。
Mr. Mi said the venture should start making money within five years. In the meantime, he added, the company is serving China’s flagship economic and foreign policy program — a multibillion-dollar plan launched in 2013 by the leader, Xi Jinping, to develop sea and land transport corridors through which China can export its goods to the world, particularly to Europe.
米恩华说，这项投资应该可以在五年内开始赚钱。他还说，该公司同时也服务于中国主要的经济和外交政策计划——中国领导人习近平在2013年启动了一项规模达数十亿美元的计划，旨在修建数条海陆运输走廊，让中国可以把货物出口到世界，特别是欧洲。
Officially called the Belt and Road Initiative but better known as the New Silk Road, the plan involves not only developing railways, ports and other infrastructure but also increasing China’s economic presence in a string of countries stretching from Central Asia to the Caucasus and then into Eastern Europe.
官方称之为为“一带一路”，但“新丝绸之路”这个名字更有名。该计划不仅涉及建设铁路、港口和其他基础设施，还包括提升中国在从中亚延伸到高加索再到东欧的一系列国家的经济影响力。
In a sign of the Chinese government’s interest despite Georgia’s small size, tumultuous past and population of only 3.7 million, it recently signed a preliminary free-trade pact with the country.
最近，中国与格鲁吉亚签订了一份初步自由贸易协定。这个迹象表明，尽管格鲁吉亚面积小，历史上有过动荡的岁月，人口也仅为370万，但中国依然对其有兴趣。
Last year, China sent teams of officials and businessmen to Tbilisi for a so-called Silk Road Forum, a conference focused on Georgia’s role as “one of the key hubs of Eurasian trade and commerce.”
去年，中国派多支由官员和商人组成的代表团前往第比利斯，参加丝绸之路论坛(Silk Road Forum)。会议的焦点便是格鲁吉亚作为“主要的欧亚贸易和商业中心”的角色。
But what this means in practical terms is not entirely clear. “All everyone agrees on is that nobody really knows what the Silk Road plan is exactly,” said Theresa Fallon, an expert on China and the director of the Center for Russia, Europe, Asia Studies, a research group in Brussels. “It covers everything and nothing. It is a slogan.”
但这在实际层面意味着什么还不完全清楚。“大家都认为，没人真的知道丝绸之路计划到底是什么，”中国问题专家、布鲁塞尔研究机构俄罗斯、欧洲和亚洲研究中心(Center for Russia, Europe, Asia Studies)主任方娴雅(Theresa Fallon)说。“什么都包括，又什么都不包括。就是一个口号。”
Nonetheless, Georgia and many other countries along the new Silk Road — an ever expanding concept that includes a multiplicity of different routes — have been lobbying to get a piece of what Chinese officials have said will be at least a trillion dollars in investment.
然而，格鲁吉亚和新丝绸之路——这个概念不断扩充，包括多个不同路线——沿线的其他很多国家一直在游说，希望在中国官员所说的至少一万亿美元投资中分一杯羹。
Unlike Russia and the United States, however, China has so far shown little interest in remaking local politics in its own image or turning Georgia into a platform for its own geopolitical agenda.
然而，不同于俄罗斯和美国，中国迄今未对按照自己的方式重塑当地政治，或是将格鲁吉亚变成自己的地缘政治议程的平台表现出太大兴趣。
“All we want is stability,” said Mr. Mi, whose company has invested half a billion dollars to become Georgia’s biggest single private investor outside energy-related projects like pipelines from neighboring Azerbaijan, a major oil and gas producer.
“我们要的只是稳定，”米恩华说。他的公司已经在这里投资了五亿美元，成为格鲁吉亚在能源相关项目（比如从邻国阿塞拜疆——主要的石油和天然气生产国——铺设管道到格鲁吉亚）之外的最大私人投资者。
In addition to its property project outside Tbilisi, Hualing runs an industrial zone in western Georgia, a mining venture, a wood processing plant and other businesses.
除了第比利斯郊外的房地产项目，华凌还在格鲁吉亚西部运营着一个工业区、一家采矿企业、一家木材加工厂和其他一些公司。
The United States, while Georgia’s most important geopolitical patron, invested just $18.4 million in the country last year. America’s most visible commercial presence in Georgia is through the franchising of fast food chains like Wendy’s and McDonald’s, as well as some hotels.
尽管美国是格鲁吉亚最重要的地缘政治赞助人，但它去年对该国的投资仅为1840万美元。在格鲁吉亚，美国最明显的商业影响力是特许经营的快餐连锁，如Wendy’s和麦当劳(McDonald’s)，以及一些酒店。
Expectations that China would pour in money willy-nilly, however, have sometimes fallen flat. China is in negotiations to buy a small Georgian Black Sea port at Batumi but pulled out of bidding for a role in the construction of a much bigger new port at Anaklia, also on Georgia’s Black Sea coast.
然而，希望中国大手笔投钱的愿望有时候也会落空。中国正在就购买格鲁吉亚位于黑海沿岸巴统(Batumi)的一个小港口进行谈判，但它撤销了参与建设一个大得多的新港口的投标。新港口地处阿纳克利亚(Anaklia)，同样位于格鲁吉亚境内的黑海海滨。