In a life that was relatively brief but exceedingly active, George Orwell was, among other things, a police officer in Burma, a dishwasher in France, a tramp in England, a combatant in Spain, a war correspondent in Germany and a farmer in the Hebrides. Like many people of his era — he was born in 1903 and died in 1950 — he was also a prolific letter writer, and a particularly captivating and thoughtful one at that, thanks partly to the wealth of experience he had acquired.
乔治·奥威尔的一生相对短暂却丰富多彩，他在缅甸当过警察，在法国当过洗碗工，在英国当过流浪汉，在西班牙打过仗，在德国当过战地记者，在赫布里底群岛当过农民。他生于1903年，死于1950年，像他那个时代的很多人一样，他一生写了很多信，部分得益于他丰富的人生经历，这些信特别迷人且有深度。
“George Orwell: A Life in Letters” is a judiciously chosen selection of some of the most interesting of these casual writings, from a 20-year period that included both the Great Depression and World War II. Peter Davison, who selected and annotated the letters, was also the lead editor of Orwell’s 20-volume “Complete Works” and has sought here to distill Orwell’s essence, as man and thinker, into a more manageable size and format.
《乔治·奥威尔：生平书信》(George Orwell: A Life in Letters)精选出这些随意写下的书信中最有趣的部分，时间跨度达20年，涵盖了经济大萧条和“二战”。挑选并给这些信件加注的彼得·戴维森(Peter Davison)是20卷《奥威尔全集》(Complete Works)的主编。在这本书信集里，他想用一种更可控制的规模和形式来提炼奥威尔作为一个普通人和一个思想家的精髓。
The letters are appearing a year after the publication of Orwell’s diaries, which focused on the concrete and often mundane details of his daily life, including the number of eggs laid by his hens. This book has a bit of that, too, but more frequently serves as a platform for Orwell to expound on weightier topics, often in terms that still resonate today.
这些书信在《奥威尔日记》(Diaries)出版一年之后面世。《奥威尔日记》主要展示他日常生活中具体而平凡的细节，包括他的母鸡下了多少个蛋。这本书信集里也有一些这样的内容，但它更是奥威尔阐释更重要话题的平台，这些话题至今仍具有现实意义。
In 1944, for instance, he worried about “a tendency to disbelieve in the existence of objective truth because all the facts have to fit in with the words and prophecies of some infallible fuhrer. Already history has in a sense ceased to exist, i.e., there is no such thing as a history of our own times which could be universally accepted.” He adds that for the same reason, “the exact sciences are endangered.”
比如，1944年，他觉得人们“现在有一种倾向，不再相信有客观事实的存在，因为所有事实都必须与某位永远正确的元首说过的话和预言一致。从某种程度上讲，历史已经不再存在了，也就是说，我们这个时代已经没有那种可以被普遍接受的历史了”。他补充说，由于同样的原因，“精密科学也濒临灭绝”。
As its title suggests, “George Orwell: A Life in Letters” is quite a different enterprise from “The Collected Essays, Journalism and Letters of George Orwell,” the four-volume work from 1968 that did much to solidify his posthumous reputation as a political clairvoyant. In the new collection, we read not only letters that Orwell wrote, but also some he received, and even a handful that friends and colleagues wrote to one another about him.
就像这本书的标题说的那样，《乔治·奥威尔：生平书信》与《乔治·奥威尔随笔、报道和书信集》(The Collected Essays, Journalism and Letters of George Orwell)的目的很不相同。后者是一套四册合集，出版于1968年，它有力地巩固了奥威尔死后获得的政治预言家的声誉。在这本新书信集中，我们不仅能读到奥威尔写的信，还能读到他收到的一些信，甚至还有几封他的朋友和同事之间写的关于他的信。
The result is a much more rounded image of Orwell and his circle than that provided by the four-volume set, for which his widow, Sonia Brownell Orwell, was a co-editor. Among the chief delights in the new volume is a much sharper image of Orwell’s first wife, Eileen O’Shaughnessy, who died at 39 during surgery, just before the 1945 publication of “Animal Farm,” whose success would give Orwell his first taste of financial stability. She emerges here as a woman of sparkling wit and intelligence, remarking on her husband’s “extraordinary political simplicity” and mordantly noting that “the English left is always Spartan; they’re fighting Franco to the last Spaniard.”
与那套四册的文集相比，这本新书信集能让我们更全面地了解奥威尔以及他的生活圈子。他的遗孀索尼娅·布朗奈尔·奥威尔(Sonia Brownell Orwell)是那套四册合集的联合编辑。新书信集给我们带来的主要惊喜之一是我们对奥威尔首任妻子艾琳·奥肖内西(Eileen O’Shaughnessy)有了更清晰的认识。她39岁时在手术中去世，就在1945年《动物农场》(Animal Farm)出版前不久，那本书的成功让奥威尔首次获得了经济上的稳定。奥肖内西在书中是一个非常聪慧的女子形象，对丈夫“异常天真的政治态度”进行评论，尖锐地指出“留下来的英国人总是勇敢好战的，他们一直在与佛朗哥作斗争直到最后一个西班牙人”。
The letters show that Orwell was shattered by her death, but that he also embarked on an excruciatingly awkward campaign to woo a successor. “There isn’t really anything left in my life except my work and seeing that Richard gets a good start,” he writes to one prospect a year after his wife’s death, referring to the son the couple adopted shortly before she died. “It is only that I feel so desperately alone sometimes. I have hundreds of friends, but no woman who takes an interest in me and can encourage me.”
从信件中可以看到，妻子的死亡让奥威尔深受打击，但是他也开始以一种折磨人的笨拙，向一个可能的结婚对象发起追求攻势。“现在我生活中只剩下工作以及看着理查德的人生有个好的开端，”妻子死后一年，他在写给其中一个可能的结婚对象的信中说。理查德是妻子死前不久这对夫妇收养的一个孩子。“只是有时我感到非常孤独。我有成百上千个朋友，但是没有哪个女人对我感兴趣或者能鼓舞我。”
The final sections of “A Life in Letters” abound with other such moments of pathos. The reader knows that Orwell will die of tuberculosis, at the age of 46, in January 1950, and though he, too, suspects that that will be his fate, he often pleads for more time.
《生平书信》的最后几部分充满了这样悲怅的时刻。读者们知道奥威尔将于1950年1月46岁的时候死于肺结核，不过他自己好像也猜到那是他的命运，所以经常祈求上天给他更多时间。
“I do want to stay alive at least 10 years, I’ve got such a lot of work to do, besides Richard to look after,” he writes six months before his death. “Of course I’ve had it coming to me all my life,” he also says in the same letter, acknowledging the price he is paying for having subjected himself to privations for so many years.
“我真的想至少再活十年，除了要照顾理查德，我还有很多工作要做，”死前六个月他在信中写道。他在同一封信中还说，“当然，我一直知道这会是我的结局”，承认这是他多年来一直陷于贫困所必须付出的代价。
There are hints here, too, tantalizing but frustrating, of books Orwell had in mind but never got to write. In 1940, he mentions that “I am sort of incubating an enormous novel, the family saga sort of thing,” and, nine years later, talks of “a novel dealing with 1945 in my head now, but even if I survive to write it, I shouldn’t touch it before 1950.”
信中还提到了一些奥威尔已构思好但是没来得及动手写的书，真是让人又好奇又遗憾。1940年，他提到“我酝酿了一个庞大的小说，类似于家族传奇”，九年后，他提到“我现在脑子里想着一个与1945年有关的小说，但即使我能活下去，我也不会在1950年之前开始动笔”。
To his publisher Fredric Warburg, he confides in 1948 that “I have a stunning idea for a very short novel which has been in my head for years, but I can’t start anything until I am free from high temperatures, etc.”
1948年，他向自己的出版人弗雷德里克·沃伯格(Fredric Warburg)透露说：“我有一个极好的短篇小说的点子，它在我脑海里酝酿很多年了，但是在高烧退去或者其他症状消失之前，我什么也干不了。”
Because Orwell was so closely identified with the great causes and conflicts of his day, his passion for literature is often overlooked. The letters help rectify that imbalance: he refers often to books he is either reviewing or simply reading for pleasure, and his literary judgments are as idiosyncratic as his politics.
因为人们密切地把奥威尔与他那个时代的事业和冲突联系在一起，所以他对文学的热情经常被忽视。这些信件有助于纠正这种不平衡的认识：他经常提到自己撰写书评的书或者仅为乐趣而读的书，他在文学上的判断和他在政治上的判断一样十分特别。
He had little use, for example, for Henry James, who “bores me unbearably,” and thought F. Scott Fitzgerald was overrated: “The Great Gatsby” “seemed to me to lack point” and “Tender Is the Night” “even more so,” he wrote. He championed the neglected 19th-century writer George Gissing, talked up James Joyce’s “Ulysses,” embraced Norman Mailer’s “Naked and the Dead” the instant it was published, and greatly admired Joseph Conrad, who, as “a transplanted Pole,” he wrote, had a “grown-upness and political understanding which would have been almost impossible to a native English writer at that time.” Jean-Paul Sartre, on the other hand, “is a bag of wind, and I am going to give him a good boot.”
比如说，他不喜欢亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)，说他“枯燥得让我难以忍受”，认为F·斯科特·菲茨杰拉德(F. Scott Fitzgerald)名不符实：“《了不起的盖茨比》(The Great Gatsby)”“在我看来不知所云”，“《夜色温柔》(Tender Is the Night)”“更是如此”。他赞赏被忽视的19世纪作家乔治·吉辛(George Gissing)，赞扬詹姆斯·乔伊斯(James Joyce)的《尤利西斯》(Ulysses)。诺曼·梅勒(Norman Mailer)的《裸者与死者》(Naked and the Dead)一出版就得到了他的赞扬。他十分崇拜约瑟夫·康拉德(Joseph Conrad)，在信中说他是“迁移而来的北极星”，“拥有当时英国本土作家几乎不可能拥有的成熟和政治理解力”。另一方面，他认为让-保罗·萨特(Jean-Paul Sartre)是个“夸夸其谈的人，我想狠狠踢他一脚”。
The literary friendships Orwell cultivated may also indicate something about his taste, which was catholic, and his nature, which was tolerant of opinions that diverged from his but not of cant. The aristocratic Anthony Powell, author of the novel cycle “A Dance to the Music of Time,” and Henry Miller, whose “Tropic of Cancer” was considered obscene when first published in the 1930s, inhabit very different literary universes, but Orwell corresponded enthusiastically with both.
奥威尔跟其他文人建立的友谊也许也能反映出他的品味和天性：他宽宏大量，能容忍不同的观点，且不是出于伪善。系列小说《与时代合拍的舞蹈》(A Dance to the Music of Time)的作者、贵族安东尼·鲍威尔(Anthony Powell)以及《北回归线》(Tropic of Cancer)的作者亨利·米勒(Henry Miller)跟奥威尔的文学世界很不相同，但是奥威尔却和这两位作家热情通信。要知道，《北回归线》在20世纪30年代出版时，曾被认为是色情小说。
Perhaps the most intriguing letter here is one written nearly a quarter-century after Orwell’s death by Jacintha Buddicom, a childhood playmate and love interest of the man she knew as Eric Blair. In it, she complains that his use of their romance in the novel “1984” “absolutely destroys me,” but also expresses regret for spurning Orwell.
其中最吸引人的也许是雅辛塔·布迪康(Jacintha Buddicom)在奥威尔去世近25年之后写的一封信。她是埃里克·布莱尔（Eric Blair，奥威尔的原名）儿时的玩伴，也是他的爱慕对象。她在信中抱怨他把他们的爱情故事用在小说《1984》中，说那“彻底毁了我”，但是也流露出对当年拒绝奥威尔的懊悔。
“How I wish I had been ready for betrothal when Eric asked me to marry him on his return from Burma,” she writes, and adds, “It took me literally years to realize that we are all imperfect creatures, but that Eric was less imperfect than anyone else I ever met.”
“我多么希望当时埃里克从缅甸回来后向我求婚时，我已经准备好结婚了，”她在信中写道。她又补充说，“多年之后我才意识到人都不完美，但是埃里克比我遇见的其他人更接近完美。”