“Mastering the Art of Quitting: Why It Matters in Life, Love, and Work,” by Peg Streep and Alan Bernstein. Da Capo Lifelong Books, $24.99, 272 pp.
《掌握放弃的艺术：为什么它对生活、爱情和工作很重要》(Mastering the Art of Quitting: Why It Matters in Life, Love, and Work)，佩格·斯特里普(Peg Streep)和艾伦·伯恩斯坦(Alan Bernstein)著。Da Capo Lifelong Books出版社，24.99美元，272页。
“Reset: How to Beat the Job-Loss Blues and Get Ready for Your Next Act,” by Dwain Schenck. Da Capo Lifelong Books, $16.99, 272 pp.
《重新开始：如何摆脱失去工作的抑郁心情，为你的下一步行动做好准备》(Reset: How to Beat the Job-Loss Blues and Get Ready for Your Next Act)，德万·申克(Dwain Schenck)著。Da Capo Lifelong Books出版社，16.99美元，272页。
“Fail Fast, Fail Often: How Losing Can Help You Win,” by Ryan Babineaux, Ph.D., and John Krumboltz, Ph.D. Tarcher/Penguin, $15.95, 224 pp.
《快速失败，经常失败：失败如何帮你成功》(Fail Fast, Fail Often: How Losing Can Help You Win)，赖安·巴比诺博士(Ryan Babineaux, Ph.D)和约翰·克朗伯兹博士(John Krumboltz, Ph.D.)著。塔彻尔/企鹅出版社，15.95美元，224页。
As 2014 looms, if you’re centering your New Year’s resolutions on things like exercising, improving your self-discipline and communicating better with loved ones, but ignoring trouble spots where drastic action is needed (like quitting a dead-end job or ending a doomed relationship), you are not alone.
在2014年来临之际，如果你的新年计划主要是围绕锻炼身体、提高自律能力以及更好地与心爱的人沟通，但是忽略了一些需要采取大动作的难点（比如放弃一份没有出路的工作或者结束一段不会有结果的恋情），那你不孤独。
According to the authors Peg Streep and Alan Bernstein: “American mythology doesn’t have room for quitters. In fact, the only kind of giving up we collectively accept and support is quitting a bad habit like smoking or drinking.”
据作家佩格·斯特里普(Peg Streep)和艾伦·伯恩斯坦(Alan Bernstein)说：“美国梦没有给放弃者留空间。实际上，我们普遍接受和支持的‘放弃’只有放弃一种坏习惯，比如抽烟或酗酒。”
But in “Mastering the Art of Quitting,” they argue that the national tendency to stay the course, however off-track, is misguided. They urge Americans afflicted by the “myth of persistence” to abandon “the hopeless pursuit of the unattainable” and to build better goals.
但是在《掌握放弃的艺术》一书中，他们认为，美国鼓励人们不管多么偏离轨道也要坚持到底的倾向是一种误导。他们劝告遭受“坚持不懈的神话”折磨的美国人放弃“对难以实现的目标的无望追求”，树立更好的目标。
Shrewd, detailed and exhortatory, their book breaks down obstacles to quitting, illustrated by exemplary stories of men and women who had the courage to gracefully quit jobs that did not satisfy them.
他们的书机智，详细，具有说服力，打破了阻挡放弃的障碍，以一些有勇气优雅地放弃不满意的工作的人为例进行说明。
One excellent reason to master the art of quitting is to avoid being fired. In March 2012, Dwain Schenck, a longtime communications executive, lost a job he hated and found himself depressed and panicked.
掌握放弃的艺术的一个重要原因是避免被解雇。2012年3月，沟通部资深主管德万·申克(Dwain Schenck)失去了他憎恨的工作，觉得又沮丧又恐慌。
“Reset: How to Beat the Job-Loss Blues and Get Ready for Your Next Act” is his blow-by-blow memoir of his struggle to restore his fortunes (today he runs a profitable public relations consultancy). “Fear quickly started to eat at me,” he writes. His “sense of identity was shot,” his psyche was “crushed.”
在《重新开始：如何摆脱失去工作的抑郁心情，为你的下一步行动做好准备》一书中，他详细记录了自己重新掌控命运的奋斗过程（现在他经营一家很赚钱的公关咨询公司）。他写道，“恐惧很快开始侵蚀我”，他的“认同感被粉碎”，他的精神被“打垮”。
Had Mr. Schenck been able to read Ms. Streep’s and Mr. Bernstein’s book at that time, he would have seen that his problem is shared by thousands in this turbulent economy. It was, in fact, the identical plight of the first case study in “Mastering the Art of Quitting,” a lawyer named Jennifer who wasted months trying to please a hostile new boss. When she was dismissed all the same, she took her expertise to a nonprofit organization, where her contributions are valued.
如果申克当时读了斯特里普和伯恩斯坦的书，他应该能够看到在如今动荡的经济形势下，有成千上万人跟他有同样的问题。事实上，在《掌握放弃的艺术》的第一个案例中，那个名叫詹妮弗的律师经历过跟他一模一样的困境。詹妮弗浪费了好几个月的时间努力取悦一个怀有敌意的新上司。当她最终仍被解雇之后，她把自己的专业知识用到一个非盈利组织中，在那里她的价值得到了肯定。
Another new book, “Fail Fast, Fail Often,” by the Stanford psychologists Ryan Babineaux and John Krumboltz, argues for an even more proactive approach to self-invention, encouraging those who are contemplating a new beginning to kick-start their dreams — even if it takes more than a few tries to get the motor revving.
斯坦福大学的心理学家赖安·巴比诺和约翰·克朗伯兹在新书《快速失败，经常失败》中提倡一种更积极主动的自我开创的方法，鼓励那些在考虑重新开始的人启动自己的梦想——即使让发动机转动需要多次尝试。
Rather than focusing on how to quit the wrong job, the authors encourage readers to invent a job that brings them joy, and to throw out the old career-advice books that instructed entrepreneurs to construct elaborate five-year plans, or urged job seekers to take career evaluation tests to find work that harmonized with their interests or star signs.
这两位作者重点关注的不是如何放弃错误的工作，而是鼓励读者开创能给自己带来快乐的工作，丢掉传统的职业发展建议书——那些书指导企业家们制订复杂的五年计划，或者劝求职者接受职业评估测试，以找到与自己的兴趣或星座协调的工作。
“It is time for the madness to end!” they declare. “The world is evolving and new careers are available all the time.”
“是时候结束这种愚蠢的行为了！”他们宣布，“世界在发展，永远都有新的事业。”
And if you don’t find a business where you want to work, they suggest, create one; don’t overthink it, start small and correct flaws once you’re up and running, because “Successful people take action as quickly as possible even though they may perform badly.”
如果你找不到满意的公司，他们建议你自己开一个。不要想太多，先从小生意做起，一旦开始运作就不断修正缺陷，因为“成功的人总是尽可能快地采取行动，即使他们可能做得很糟糕”。
Their assumption is that (like Ed Catmull, a founder and president of Pixar; or Jack Dorsey, the founding chief executive of Twitter; or Howard Schultz, creator of Starbucks) successful employees and entrepreneurs will be adept at the magical process that prevails at Pixar (by Mr. Catmull’s description). That, the authors say, consists of winnowing “a few good ideas” out of “tons of half-baked concepts and outright stinkers.”
他们的论点是，成功的员工或企业家（比如皮克斯[Pixar]动画工作室的创始人和总裁埃德·凯特摩尔[Ed Catmull]；或Twitter的创始主管杰克·多尔西[Jack Dorsey]；或星巴克[Starbucks]的创始人霍华德·舒尔茨[Howard Schultz]）肯定会擅长皮克斯工作室盛行的那种神奇的过程（这是凯特摩尔的描述）。两位作者认为，这个过程包括从“几吨不成熟的观点和彻头彻尾的烂主意”中筛选出“几个好主意”。
Bold, bossy and bracing, “Fail Fast, Fail Often” is like a 200-page shot of B12, meant to energize the listless job seeker.
《快速失败，经常失败》大胆，专横，令人振奋，就像200页的维生素B12，意在让萎靡的求职者精神振奋。
That said, if you have a mortgage and school tuition to pay, the freewheeling turn-on-a-dime initiative the authors espouse may leave the timid hugging their cubicles, penning cautious resolutions to cut down on pasta and cheese in the coming year, and smiling ingratiatingly at any supervisors who pass by.
即便如此，如果你需要还贷款、付学费，那这两位作者书中随心所欲、挑战运气的计划可能会让胆小的人紧守自己的办公小隔间，小心翼翼地写下“少吃意面和奶酪”这样的新年决心，对每个经过的主管都谄媚地微笑。