Last week, two publications that consider themselves champions of women faced off — with an unexpected outcome.
两家以女性捍卫者自居的出版物上周进行了对决——结果出人意料。
Jezebel, a website that made its name protesting artificiality in women’s magazines, announced on Thursday what seemed like a subversive feminist stunt. It dangled a $10,000 bounty for anyone who could produce raw, un-retouched versions of photos of Lena Dunham from the new issue of Vogue, aiming to “reveal how many pounds Dunham lost on the Vogue diet” of digital alteration, as The Cut put it. The next day, Jezebel posted the originals.
以抗议女性杂志容貌作假而著称的网站Jezebel（来自圣经旧约中的人物耶洗别，今指无耻、不道德的女性。——译注）在周四推出了一个极具煽动性的女性主义噱头。网站称，如果有人能根据最新一期《Vogue》杂志中的莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)照片制作出一个原始、未加修饰的版本，就可以得到1万美元，用The Cut的话说，这是希望以此来揭露杜汉姆通过《Vogue》的数码修改“节食疗法减掉了多少磅体重”。Jezebel在第二天贴出了原图。
The unedited photos garnered more than a million page views — but the exercise also fell somewhat flat. Within hours, Jezebel faced accusations of insensitivity and bullying, while Vogue, a magazine some feminists have long loved to hate, drew praise for showcasing a woman whose body looks nothing like a supermodel’s.
这些未经编辑的照片吸引了超过100万的页面浏览量——然而行动的效果多少有些平淡。几个小时后，有人开始指责Jezebel冷酷、霸道，而女性主义者一向恨之入骨的《Vogue》，反倒因为展示了一个没有超级模特身材的女性身体而受到了褒扬。
To many readers, Jezebel seemed to have picked the wrong target, a writer and actress who had managed to put her own “different” — that is, typical — body on television. And though Vogue had performed major reconstructive surgery on the photos’ backgrounds, it had left the body of Ms. Dunham, creator and star of the HBO series “Girls,” essentially intact.
在很多读者看来，Jezebel似乎选错了目标，这是一个作家和演员，成功地将自己“不一样的”（其实是典型的）身材呈现在了电视上。《Vogue》给照片的背景做了一个大型的整形手术，但是杜汉姆这位HBO剧集《都市女孩》(Girls)剧创兼主演的身体基本上没有改动。
“They want unretouched images of Lena Dunham? I’ll sell them my season one DVD of ‘Girls,’ ” the TV critic James Poniewozik quipped on Facebook, referring to Ms. Dunham’s take-me-as-I-am nude scenes. Longtime “Jezzies,” or readers of the website, complained in the comments. Even Anna Holmes, the website’s founding editor, said in an interview that she was “surprised” at what her successors had done.
“他们想要未修图的莉娜·杜汉姆？我可以把我的《都市女孩》第一季DVD卖给他们，”电视评论人詹姆斯·波涅沃奇克(James Poniewozik)在Facebook上打趣地说，他指的是杜汉姆在剧中以本色出演的裸戏片段。Jezebel网站的一些忠实读者在帖子下面发表了一些不满的评论，连网站的创始编辑安娜·赫尔姆斯(Anna Holmes)都在接受采访时说，她对自己继任者的所作所为感到“意外”。
The gimmick may have flopped for another reason: feminists may finally be able to declare victory — or, at least, celebrate major milestones — in their longstanding fight against such magazines.
这次耍花招之所以失败，也许有另外一个原因：多年来一直在和类似杂志做斗争的女性主义者可能终于可以宣告胜利了——或至少庆祝一个重大的阶段性胜利。
Instead of advice on how to please men, the February cover of Cosmopolitan urges its readers not to skip a prenuptial agreement because they may outearn their husbands. In the current issue of Glamour, the first few dozen pages alone feature several African-American models and actresses and a disabled athlete. In Vogue, Anna Wintour’s editor’s letter says that Ms. Dunham is “precisely so very right” for the magazine because she wasn’t a conventional choice.
《Cosmopolitan》杂志2月刊的封面并没有给出如何取悦男人的建议，而是呼吁读者不要忽视婚前协议，因为她们的收入也许会超过丈夫。在最新一期的《Glamour》中，前面几十页里有几位非裔美国模特和女演员，以及一位残疾人运动员。安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)在《Vogue》的编辑寄语中说，杜汉姆和杂志“实在是天作之合”，因为她不是杂志的常规选择。
“I don’t understand why, Photoshop or no, having a woman who is different than the typical Vogue cover girl could be a bad thing,” Ms. Dunham told French Slate in response to the fracas.
“不管有没有Photoshop，我不明白用一个不同于典型Vogue封面女郎的女人能有什么不妥，”杜汉姆在Slate法文版上发表了对这场闹剧的回应。
For decades, women’s magazines did feminists the favor of giving them clear targets, monthly illustrations of the constricting social attitudes they were fighting against.
几十年来，女性杂志将一些明确的攻击目标拱手送给女性主义者，在它们每月刊出的图片中，包含着女性主义所反对的约束性社会态度。
In March 1970, nearly a hundred women took over the office of the male editor of Ladies’ Home Journal for 11 hours. The next year, Gloria Steinem and peers founded Ms. Magazine. The magazines were not always as vapid as caricatures suggested: Cosmopolitan mapped its own kind of liberation, articles explored then-taboo topics like breast cancer, and Seventeen gave paychecks and homes to writers like Sylvia Plath, Ann Patchett, and Adrian Nicole LeBlanc. But their mainstays were still white, skinny models; winning male approval; and creating “insecurities and then trying to solve them,” as Ms. Holmes put it.
1970年3月，将近一百名女性占领《妇女家庭》杂志(Ladies’ Home Journal)男性编辑的办公室长达11个小时。第二年，格洛丽亚·斯泰纳姆(Gloria Steinem)及其同仁创办了《Ms.》杂志。杂志并非总是像那些讽刺画所暗示的那么无聊：《Cosmopolitan》规划了自己的解放运动，一些文章探讨了乳癌等当时属于禁忌的话题，《Seventeen》给希薇亚·普拉斯(Sylvia Plath)、安· 帕契特(Ann Patchett)和阿德莉安·妮可尔·勒布朗克(Adrian Nicole LeBlanc)等作家提供薪酬和住处。但它们的主打依旧是纤瘦的白皮肤模特；赢得男性的赞许；以及如赫尔姆斯所说，要创造“一种惶恐不安，然后再试图去解决它”。
In 2007, Ms. Holmes started Jezebel, owned by Gawker Media, as an alternative to, and assault on magazines like Glamour and InStyle, both publications where she had previously worked.
赫尔姆斯在2007年创办了Jezebel，由Gawker媒体公司所有，希望能提供一个不同于《Glamour》和《InStyle》等杂志的选择，并对它们发起攻击，她此前在这两份刊物里都工作过。
In its first year, when it published the un-retouched version of Redbook’s cover featuring the country star Faith Hill, Jezebel was lauded for inspiring a new wave of scrutiny about images that looked nothing like real women. Redbook had erased the bags under Ms. Hill’s eyes, as well as a significant portion of her body fat.
在创办第一年，网站刊出了乡村歌星费丝·希尔(Faith Hill)的《Redbook》杂志封面的未修饰版，此举受到了读者的赞许，称它掀起了新一轮的探究风潮，对那些看上去完全不像真实女人的图片详加审视。《Redbook》去掉了希尔的眼袋，还抽走了相当一部分体脂。
But since then, cover lines and content have shifted. “Women changed and our culture changed in general,” Cindi Leive, editor in chief of Glamour, said in an interview. Vogue pledged last year to no longer use models who “appear to have an eating disorder“ and Glamour has expanded its use of plus-size models. In 2011, Gloria Steinem accepted a Glamour “Women of the Year” award, embracing a genre she had once criticized.
然而，自那以后，封面的文字和内容开始发生改变。“总的来说，女性变了，我们的文化也改变了，”《Glamour》主编辛蒂·莱夫(Cindi Leive)在接受采访时说。《Vogue》去年承诺不再使用“看上去像是有饮食紊乱症”的模特，《Glamour》增加了对“加码模特”的使用。2011年，斯泰纳姆获得了《Glamour》的“年度女性”大奖，欣然接纳了她曾经批判过的一个类型。
Jezebel’s current editor, Jessica Coen, said in an interview that the women’s magazines are still worth fighting. “We’re still talking about an industry and aesthetic that tells us that under-eye circles are wrong,” she said, defending her exposé of the Dunham photographs.
Jezebel的现任编辑杰西卡·柯恩(Jessica Coen)在一次采访中说，与女性杂志做斗争依然是有必要的。“我们依然面对着这样一个产业和审美，它告诉我们黑眼圈是一个错误，”她在为自己公布杜汉姆照片一事作辩解时说。
However, Roxane Gay, part of a new crop of feminist critics who have gained notice online, said that Vogue and its peers are not a central concern. “The front lines right now are not women’s magazines,” she said. Instead, Ms. Gay said she would rather focus on the “erosion of the middle class” — and enjoy the magazines for the fantasies that they are.
然而，罗克姗·盖伊(Roxane Gay)认为《Vogue》及其同类已经不再是最需要关切的问题。在网上成名的盖伊属于新涌现的一批女性主义批评人士中的一员。“当下的最前线并非女性杂志，”她说。盖伊认为更应该关注的是“中产阶级的流失”——以及通过看杂志来形成自己是中产阶级的幻觉。