In the J. D. Salinger story “Zooey,” the title character’s mother says of him and his brother: “Neither you nor Buddy know how to talk to people you don’t like,” adding: “You can’t live in the world with such strong likes and dislikes.”
在塞林格(J. D. Salinger)的短篇小说《祖伊》(Zooey)中，祖伊的母亲对他和他哥哥讲：“无论你，还是巴迪(Buddy)，都不懂怎么跟不喜欢的人讲话。”又补充道：“你们喜恶如此分明，无法在这世界上生存。”
This was true, too, of the famously reclusive Salinger, who retreated to Cornish, N.H., the small town where he lived in seclusion for more than a half-century. His alienation from the world and his mania for privacy became part of the Salinger myth — a myth that David Shields and Shane Salerno attempt to pierce in their revealing but often slapdash new book, “Salinger.”
这话放在塞林格身上也正确：众所周知，他遁世绝俗，退居新罕布什尔州科尼什小镇，过了半个多世纪与世隔绝的生活。他与世界的疏离，以及他对个人隐私的狂热，都已成为“塞林格神话”的一部分。而大卫·希尔兹(David Shields)与谢恩·萨莱诺(Shane Salerno)就企图在二人新著的《塞林格》(Salinger)一书中，洞穿这一神话——这本书透露内情、发人深省，但也时常显得仓促马虎、草率了事。
Salinger stopped publishing decades ago (his last story to appear in print, “Hapworth 16, 1924,” came out in the June 19, 1965, issue of The New Yorker), but, by some reports, he continued to write nearly every day.
塞林格数十年前就已停止出版新著（他最后发表的小说是《1924年哈普沃兹16号》[Hapworth 16, 1924]，首见《纽约客》杂志1965年6月19号刊）。但是，有些报道则称，在那之后，他几乎每日笔耕不辍。
In “Salinger,” Mr. Salerno and Mr. Shields assert that Salinger, who died in January 2010 at 91, left instructions “authorizing a specific timetable” (starting between 2015 and 2020) for the release of unpublished work, including five new Glass family stories; a novel based on his relationship with his first wife, Sylvia Welter, a German he married shortly after World War II; a novella in the form of a counterintelligence officer’s diary entries during the war; a story-filled “manual” about the Vedanta religious philosophy; and new or retooled stories fleshing out the story of Holden Caulfield, known to generations of readers from “The Catcher in the Rye,” the novel that made its creator famous in 1951 as the voice of adolescent angst. The authors of “Salinger” attribute details of these plans to two anonymous sources described as “independent and separate.”
在《塞林格》一书中，萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生断言，享年91岁的塞林格，于2010年1月去世前曾留下指示，“授权一份具体的时间表”（起于2015年，止于2020年），安排发布其未发表作品，包括：五篇有关格拉斯家族的全新小说；一部长篇小说，基于他与西尔维亚·韦尔特(Sylvia Welter)之间的关系创作，韦尔特是他在“二战”结束不久后迎娶的德国发妻；一部中短篇小说，采用一个二战时反情报官日记条目的形式写成；一本有关吠陀宗教哲学的“手册”，满载故事；还有些全新或再编的小说，充实完善了霍尔顿·考菲尔德(Holden Caulfield)的人物形象——这个角色为《麦田里的守望者》(The Catcher in the Rye)几代读者所熟知，而这部小说也令其创作者在1951年名声斐然，俨然替青少年焦虑疑惧发声的代言。《塞林格》的两位作者将这些出版计划细节归溯于两条匿名信息来源，称其“各自独立”。
The sharp-edged portrait of Salinger that Mr. Shields and Mr. Salerno draw in this book is that of a writer whose “life was a slow-motion suicide mission” — a man who never recovered from the horrors of wartime combat and the soul-shaking sight of a Nazi death camp filled with burned and smoldering corpses. Salinger, they argue, tried to grapple with his post-traumatic stress disorder first with art and later with religion: “The war broke him as a man and made him a great artist; religion offered him postwar spiritual solace and killed his art.”
萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生在这本书中为塞林格刻画了一幅锋芒锐利的肖像，二人笔下的这位作家“一生就是个慢镜头的自杀使命”——这个男人从未自战时打仗的恐怖中恢复，亦从未自纳粹死亡集中营焚尸焦骸的触目惊心中复原。二人认为，塞林格曾试图解决自己的创伤后应激障碍，首先通过艺术，后来则通过宗教：“战争毁了作为一个人的塞林格，但使他成为了一个伟大的艺术家；宗教为他提供了战后的心灵慰藉，但消灭了他的艺术。”
This reductive diagnosis of Salinger’s “condition” is accompanied by pages and pages of testimony about how his youthful arrogance (one friend said he dismissed “Dreiser through Hemingway” as “all inferior” writers) and disaffection with his parents’ bourgeois world calcified, after the war, into a deep antipathy, even repugnance for most worldly things and ideas. Eventually, that contempt infected many of his closest relationships, and as depicted in these pages, an observant, Holden-like young man evolves over the years into a blinkered and condescending curmudgeon who is frequently guilty of the same sort of phoniness or hypocrisy his characters so deplored.
对于塞林格身心“状况”的这份化约诊断，书中辅以长篇累牍的证词，证明他年少自负（一个朋友说他对“从德莱赛到海明威”的所有作家都很不屑，认为他们“全都是劣等”），对父母的资产阶级世界不满，而这些心理在战后统统僵化成对世俗一切事物与观念的深切反感，甚至可以说深恶痛绝。最终，许多同他十分亲近的人，与他之间的关系，受这种轻蔑所影响甚而污染；同时，书页行文也描绘了一个机敏的、霍尔顿般的青年，多年后如何演化成一个心胸狭隘、傲慢乖戾的老家伙——对于种种虚伪造作，他笔下的角色哀叹谴责至深，他自己却屡犯且常因此而内疚。
Salinger’s family, the authors say, had to compete for his attention with the fictional characters he’d created. One scholar quoted here says that when Salinger went off to his writing bunker, he gave “strict orders that he was not to be disturbed for anything unless the house was burning down.” What’s more, as he retreated from the world, his writing grew increasingly solipsistic and hermetic, his mastery of the vernacular giving way to more and more abstract language.
本书作者称，塞林格的家人不得不与他创造的虚构角色争宠。书中援引一位学者的话，称每当塞林格离开家，前往他那座地堡书房写作时，他总是给家人下“严格的命令，告诉他们发生任何事都不得打扰他，除非房子着火要烧垮了。”此外，离群隐遁之后，他的写作也愈发与世隔绝、深奥唯我；他对俗世日常白话的精通，让位于越来越抽象的语言。
“Story by story,” Mr. Salerno and Mr. Shields observe, “from ‘Teddy’ forward, Salinger’s work moves from religion as a factor or even a crutch in his characters’ lives, to religion as the only thing in their lives that matters, to the work’s entire purpose being to cryptically convey religious dogma.”
“一个故事接一个故事，”据萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生观察到，“自《泰迪》(Teddy)以后，塞林格的作品，从把宗教作为笔下角色生活中的事实因素甚或精神支柱，转而到把宗教作为角色生活中唯一重要的一件事，再到干脆作品的整个目的就是要含糊隐晦地传达教义。”
“Salinger,” self-promotingly described on its cover as “The Official Book of the Acclaimed Documentary Film,” is not a conventional biography but a kind of companion volume to Mr. Salerno’s documentary of the same name (to be released on Sept. 6). The book takes a montagelike form: Excerpts from interviews, snippets from books and newspaper articles, letters and photos (some new) and photocopies of documents have all been assembled along with the authors’ own remarks into a sprawling, cut-and-paste collage.
《塞林格》一书封面自卖自夸，自称“获盛赞纪录片的官方图书”。该书不是一本传统的传记，而是某种为萨莱诺先生同名纪录片（将于9月6日上映）配套用的指南。该书采用蒙太奇般的拼版方式写就：采访的摘选节录、书报文章的片段、信件和照片（有些是新的），还有影印的文件和资料，全部汇集起来，附带两位作者自己的评论，拼凑成一幅枝节旁生的剪贴画。
This volume is indebted to earlier Salinger biographies by Paul Alexander (listed curiously as “an adviser to this book”) and Kenneth Slawenski, and it also draws heavily upon memoirs by Salinger’s daughter, Margaret, and his former lover Joyce Maynard, who was 18 when he began courting her. Among the other voices featured in this book are Salinger friends, paramours, colleagues, acquaintances and fans, as well as reporters, critics (including this one) and photographers.
这本书要感谢保罗·亚历山大(Paul Alexander)和肯尼思·斯拉温斯基(Kenneth Slawenski)以前分别著作的塞林格传记（前者很奇怪地被列为了“本书顾问”），还大量吸收利用了塞林格女儿玛格丽特(Margaret Salinger)和他旧情人乔伊斯·梅纳德(Joyce Maynard)各自撰写的回忆录——塞林格追乔伊斯的时候，她才18岁。这本书中特写的其他一些声音则来自塞林格的朋友、情妇、同事、熟人和粉丝，以及记者、评论家（包括本文笔者）和摄影师。
Although Mr. Salerno has done an energetic job of finding sources and persuading them to talk — he says he interviewed more than 200 people over nine years — numerous entries in this volume have been taken not from new interviews but from earlier books and articles, sometimes with and sometimes without real context. Mr. Shields offered a defense of this sort of approach in his 2010 book, “Reality Hunger,” which embraced the validity of “recombinant,” or appropriation, art.
虽然萨莱诺先生积极搜寻消息来源，且极力说服他们开口，可谓精力充沛——他说自己历时9年多，采访了200余人——但这本书中许多条目的内容并非来自新访谈，却是来自以前的书籍和文章，而且有时候有真实的上下文，有时候还没有。希尔兹先生在他个人2010年出版的《嗜食现实》(Reality Hunger)中为这种写作方式提供了辩护，那本书欣然接受了所谓“重组”艺术，或曰“挪用”艺术的正当性。
This methodology gives the reader a choral, “Rashomon”-like portrait of Salinger, but it also makes for a loosey-goosey, Internet-age narrative with diminished authorial responsibility. Instead of assiduously sifting fact from conjecture and trying to sort out discrepancies, Mr. Salerno and Mr. Shields are often content to lay back and simply let sources speak for themselves.
这一套方法，给读者提供了聆听合唱般的阅读体验，勾勒了一幅“罗生门”式的塞林格肖像，但也导致一种优哉游哉的因特网时代的叙事，削弱且贬低了写作者的写作责任。萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生并没有勤勉地从臆测中筛选事实，也没有试着分拣出资料相违之处，而常常安于坐享其成，干脆让消息来源自说自话。
This can make for sloppy scholarship with a lot of hedges like “probably thought,” “would have understood” and “might have been,” as well as outright speculation — sometimes by the authors themselves. Mr. Shields and Mr. Salerno even suggest that “Catcher” in some way played a role in the killings of John Lennon and the young actress Rebecca Schaeffer, and the attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan. These terrible acts, the authors write, “are not a coincidence; they constitute frighteningly clairvoyant readings of ‘Catcher’ — the assassins intuiting the underlying postwar anger and violence in the book.”
这样可能会促进吊儿郎当的学术研究，带着一大堆含糊其辞的“可能想过”、“或许理解了”和“也许曾是”，还有可能导致一根筋的推测——有时甚至作者自己就是这样。萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生甚至暗示，《麦田》一书在某种程度上起了一定作用，导致约翰·列侬(John Lennon)和年轻女演员丽贝卡·希弗(Rebecca Schaeffer)遇害，以及里根总统险遭暗杀一案。作者写道，这些可怕的行为“不是一个巧合；它们组成了对《麦田》一书令人恐惧的超感解读——这些刺客凭直觉感知着书中根本的、潜在的战后愤怒与暴力。”
The authors contend that Salinger “was born with only one testicle” and they argue that this caused him enormous embarrassment — that it was “surely one of the many reasons he stayed out of the media glare” so as “to reduce the likelihood that this information would emerge,” and that it amplified his psychological need “to create flawless art.” This assertion, however, is based on anonymous sources: two unnamed women who the authors say “independently confirmed” hearsay that Salinger suffered from this anomaly.
两位作者坚决主张塞林格“天生只有一个睾丸”，他们认为这给他造成了巨大的尴尬——认为这“肯定是他远离媒体众目睽睽的诸多原因之一”，因为这样才得以“减少这则信息暴露的可能性”，还认为这放大了他“创造完美无瑕艺术”的心理需要。然而，这一论断是基于匿名消息人士提供的信息：两个不具名的女人——作者称“已各自独立确认”——道听途说地指出塞林格遭受了这个畸形之苦。
In another chapter, Mr. Shields and Mr. Salerno discuss outsourcing their research. They write that they “hired the literary scholar, Salinger expert, and German native Eberhard Alsen to travel to Germany to conduct an extensive investigation into Salinger’s year in the European Theater and postwar experience in Germany.” Mr. Alsen then proceeds to say that “utilizing his counterintelligence skills, Salinger forged French identification papers for Sylvia in order to circumvent the nonfraternization law,” and suggests, without hard evidence, that Sylvia “might have been a Gestapo informant.”
另一章里，希尔兹先生和萨莱诺先生则讨论他们把研究工作外包的事。他们写道，他们“雇佣了一位文学学者、塞林格专家、土生土长的德国人埃伯哈德·艾尔森(Eberhard Alsen)，派其前往德国进行大量调查，调查塞林格在欧洲战场的岁月，以及他战后待在德国的经历。”艾尔森先生继而说道，“塞林格利用反间谍技能，为西尔维亚伪造了身份证件，以规避禁止亲敌的法律。”他还提出，虽无确凿证据，但西尔维亚“可能曾是告密者，给盖世太保提供情报。”
Attempting to identify patterns in Salinger’s life and art, Mr. Salerno and Mr. Shields quote sources who note his compulsion to try to control the lives of those closest to him and his appreciation of fiction as a way to orchestrate his fantasies. Innocence and nostalgia, they remind us, were recurring themes in his work, and they suggest that these preoccupations — not unlike his fondness for old-fashioned television like “The Lawrence Welk Show” — represented a desire to turn back the clock, to retreat to the past (before the war, before his hospitalization for “battle fatigue,” before his psyche was horribly scarred).
萨莱诺先生和希尔兹先生企图确定塞林格生活与艺术的模式。他们引述的消息人士指出，塞林格有难以克制的冲动，想试着控制与自己最亲近者的生活；而他对虚构小说的欣赏，则是为了精心协调、编排他脑中的一支支幻想曲。作者提醒我们，童真与怀旧是塞林格作品中反复出现的主题，暗示塞林格专注的这两方面——与他对诸如《劳伦斯·威尔克秀》(The Lawrence Welk Show)等过时电视节目的钟爱并无二致——代表了他想让时光倒流的欲望、想退居往昔的意愿（回到战争以前，因“战争疲劳症”住院以前，心灵留下可怕伤痕以前）。
They also contend that this yearning for innocence — coupled with his devastation at being dumped as a young man by the teenage Oona O’Neill for Charlie Chaplin in 1943 — had something to do with his need to seek out young women: his need to idolize them, seduce them and then abandon them. With Jean Miller — a 14-year-old he met at a Florida beach resort in 1949 and who seems to have inspired the heroine of “For Esmé — With Love and Squalor” — he nurtured a five-year relationship, only to freeze her out the day after they had sex for the first time.
作者还坚称，塞林格这种对童真的渴望——连带着1943年，年方十几的乌娜·奥尼尔(Oona O'Neill)抛弃年轻的他，投入卓别林怀抱，令他悲痛欲绝的感情——都与他这种寻找年轻女性的需求不无关联：他的需求就是，要先将她们奉为偶像，诱惑她们，然后抛弃她们。例如珍·米勒(Jean Miller)——貌似激发他以之为女主角创作了《为埃斯米而作：既有爱也有污秽凄苦》(For Esmé — With Love and Squalor)——他于1949年在佛罗里达某个海滩度假胜地遇到这个14岁的少女，培养了一段长达五年的恋爱关系，结果仅在两人初次上床的第二天，就转而冷颜以对，逼走了对方。
There is something creepy in Salinger’s use of his distinctive Holden-esque voice to try to charm his potential conquests — in a 1972 letter to Ms. Maynard the 53-year-old author describes himself as “perhaps the last active Mousketeer east of the White House” — and his judgmental, Glass-ian impulse to divide the world into us and them, inviting these worshipful young love interests to join his elite little club, only to expel them later with a curt dismissal that they’re merely ordinary or conventional, not special enough for him.
总有些什么令人心里发毛。这份毛骨悚然在于：塞林格施展他独具特色的“霍尔顿气质”口吻，试图迷住他的潜在战利品——在他1972年写给梅纳德女士的一封信中，这位时已53岁的作者将自己描述为“也许是白宫以东最后一个活跃的米老鼠儿童俱乐部成员”（Mousekteer，亦与“火枪手”谐音——译注）。这份不寒而栗也在于：他具有一种批判挑剔、格拉斯式的冲动，想要将世界划分为“我们”和“他们”，邀请这些满含崇拜之心的、年轻的、只因他这主角的爱情故事而存在的女人，加入他的精英小俱乐部——结果竟是为了随后开除她们，唐突地打发她们走，告诉她们说，她们无非只是平凡、俗套的普通人，不够特别，配不上他。
“The problem with you, Joyce,” Ms. Maynard recalls him saying, “is you love the world.”
“你的问题，乔伊斯，”梅纳德女士回忆他的话，“那就是你爱这世界。”