SINGAPORE — While the supersonic jets, attack helicopters and surface-to-air missiles longer than a stretch limousine wowed an estimated 80,000 people who attended the final days of the Singapore Airshow over the weekend, it was a small, silent and unarmed weapon that took center stage as major players in the Southeast Asia weapons market hawked their wares.
新加坡——上周末，新加坡航展的最后两天，大约8万名参观者对超音速飞机、攻击直升机，以及比加长豪华轿车更长的地对空导弹赞叹不已，但在这个东南亚军火市场主要卖家推广产品的舞台上，占据中心位置的却是一种小巧、安静、无火力的武器。
Military contractors from Austria, Australia, Israel, the United States and other countries showcased unmanned aerial vehicles, or U.A.V.s, throughout the week here at Asia’s largest air show, hoping to make deals with militaries across the Asia-Pacific region. The drones themselves can cost several hundred thousand dollars, and high-end systems can cost as much as $20 million.
在亚洲最大的航空展上，来自奥地利、澳大利亚、以色列、美国和其他国家的军事承包商展示了无人机（unmanned aerial vehicles，简称UAV），希望能与亚太各地达成军火交易。这种无人机本身的价格为几十万美元，高端系统价格可高达2000万美元（约合人民币1.2亿元）。
Although the United States has used the American-made Predator to launch missile strikes in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan and Yemen, unarmed versions of the craft are looking increasingly attractive for both military and civilian uses, experts say.
虽然美国已经在阿富汗、伊拉克、巴基斯坦和也门使用美制“捕食者”(Predator)无人机发动了导弹袭击，但专家说，无论是军用还是民用，这种无人机的无武装机型正越来越受到关注。
This is especially true in Southeast Asia, given issues like territorial disputes in the South China Sea, maritime piracy and terrorism.
在东南亚尤为如此，因为那里存在海盗、恐怖主义活动，以及南海领土争端等问题。
“With all that’s happening with the Chinese, pirates, Islamic extremists, it brings new capabilities for different kinds of problems,” said Dan Ze’evi, a retired military officer who is director of marketing communications and information for Israel Military Industries. Although the company did not have any drones for sale at the air show, two other Israeli manufacturers, Israel Aerospace Industries and Elbit Systems, had systems on display.
“鉴于跟中国人、海盗、伊斯兰极端分子有关的那些事情，无人机提供了针对各种新问题的新能力，”丹·泽维(Dan Ze’evi)说，他是一名退役军官，现为以色列军事工业公司(Israel Military Industries)的营销传讯和信息总监。该公司在本次航展上没有销售无人机，但另外两家以色列制造商——以色列航空工业公司(Israel Aerospace Industries)和埃尔比特系统公司(Elbit Systems)——却展出了一些无人机系统。
Military contractors say the U.A.V.s can be used watching naval movements around disputed areas, monitoring land and maritime borders, and guarding natural resources and vital infrastructure like oil and natural gas fields and pipelines, as well as for civilian tasks like detecting forest fires and damage from natural disasters.
军事承包商们说，无人机可以用来观察争端地区周围的海军动向，监视陆地和海上边境，守护自然资源以及石油、天然气田和输送管道等重要基础设施，还可以用于执行民用任务，比如探测森林火灾和自然灾害造成的破坏。
“Given the disputes in the Spratly Islands, piracy, counterterrorism, illegal logging and fishing, there is a market,” said Douglas Dawson, director of international business development for the Aero Services Division of General Atomics, which produces the multimillion-dollar MQ-1 Predator. Nations including China, Vietnam and the Philippines stake claims to the Spratly Islands, which lie in the South China Sea.
“鉴于南沙群岛的领土争端，以及海盗、反恐、非法伐木和捕鱼问题，无人机在这里很有市场，”通用原子公司(General Atomics)航空服务部门的国际业务发展总监道格拉斯·道森(Douglas Dawson)说。价值数百万美元的MQ-1“捕食者”无人机就是该公司制造的。包括中国、越南和菲律宾在内的国家声称对位于南海的南沙群岛拥有主权。
“We think there is a requirement in this region,” Mr. Dawson added, noting that he had met during the air show with military delegations from around Asia, as well as the Middle East. He said he planned to meet this week with officials of Indonesia’s Ministries of Defense and State-Owned Enterprises and with private energy companies in Jakarta, Indonesia’s capital.
“我们觉得，该地区对无人机有需求，”道森表示，他还说自己在航展期间会见了来自亚洲各地以及中东的军事代表团。他说他计划于本周前往印尼首都雅加达，跟印尼国防部和国有企业的官员以及私营能源公司的负责人见面。
All told, $32 billion worth of commercial deals were announced during the six-day trade portion of the show, the event’s organizers said on Friday. But that did not include sales of weaponry, whose deals were not publicly announced. Experts said Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand were seen as the biggest potential customers for military hardware and systems upgrades at the show.
航展主办方上周五表示，展会在为期六天的交易期间，总共宣布了价值320亿美元的商业交易。但是武器销售的数字并没有公开，也没有包含在这320亿美元中。专家表示，在本次航展中，文莱、印尼、马来西亚、新加坡和泰国被视为是军用装备和系统升级的最大潜在客户。
Industry players said there was no shortage of interest among Asian military delegations looking for advanced weapon systems or to upgrade existing ones.
业内人士表示，亚洲军事代表团对于购买先进武器系统和升级现有系统不乏兴趣。
BAE Systems Inc., the American subsidiary of the British arms company BAE Systems P.L.C., is now the only company qualified to upgrade the F-16 fighter jet, aside from its manufacturer, Lockheed-Martin, said Brian W. Krauss, the director of business development for aerospace solutions for the American unit of BAE.
布莱恩·W·克劳斯(Brian W. Krauss)说，除了F-16战斗机的制造商洛克希德-马丁(Lockheed-Martin)之外，英国军火公司BAE系统公众有限公司(BAE Systems P.L.C.)在美国的子公司BAE系统公司(BAE Systems Inc.)是目前唯一一家具备升级F-16资质的公司。克劳斯是BAE美国子公司的航空航天解决方案业务发展总监。
The British company recently announced an agreement to upgrade more than 130 South Korean F-16s, a deal that news media reports said could be worth more than $1 billion.
这家英国公司最近宣布将为韩国的130多架F-16战斗机提供升级服务，新闻媒体称该交易的价值可能逾10亿美元。
“It’s a wide market, especially countries in the region” like Indonesia, Singapore and South Korea, whose militaries rely heavily on the F-16, Mr. Krauss said, adding that most countries did not have the ability to do upgrades themselves.
“这是一个广阔的市场，特别该地区的”印尼、新加坡和韩国等国，克劳斯说这些国家的战机中F-16比例很高，而且大多数国家都没有自己升级F-16的能力。
In addition, most countries lack the expertise and infrastructure within their domestic arms industries to produce many of the weapons systems they need, analysts say, which makes looking abroad a necessity.
此外，分析人士说大多数国家的本国军工业都缺乏专业知识和基础设施，无力生产他们需要的很多武器系统，因此需要从国外进口。
Previously limited by export control restrictions under the Missile Technology Control Regime — an international agreement intended to prevent the global spread of missile-based weapons delivery systems — General Atomics received permission from the United States to sell an unarmed version of the Predator abroad, the Predator XP, Mr. Dawson said. Last year, it announced its first sale of an undisclosed number of the aircraft to the United Arab Emirates for $197 million.
道森说，通用原子公司获得了美国的许可，可以把“捕食者”的无武装机型“捕食者XP”出售给国外，而以前则受到“导弹及其技术控制制度”（Missile Technology Control Regime，简称MTCR）出口管制条约的限制。MTCR是一个国际协议，旨在防止基于导弹的武器运载系统在全球扩散。去年通用原子公司宣布了该机型的首宗出售交易，以1.97亿美元的价格将未披露数量的飞机销售给阿联酋。
For its part, China promoted its homegrown drone, the Wing Loong, with a small display model and showed off models of its JF-17 Thunder single-engine fighter jet and an attack helicopter, all of which it is trying to export. No actual Chinese aircraft or full-scale mock-ups were on display.
中国则使用缩小的展览模型来推广其自主研制的翼龙无人机，并展出了JF-17雷电单引擎战斗机和一款攻击直升机，这些都是中国希望出口的产品。中国没有展出飞机实物和全尺寸模型。
Despite China’s trying to establish itself as a competitor in the global weapons market, the development of its advanced fighter aircraft remains shrouded in secrecy. There were only about 20 Chinese companies at the air show, compared with 173 American companies, many from the military industry, and actual United States military and commercial aircraft on display included the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor craft, C-17 Globemaster transport plane, numerous U.A.V.s and the Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
尽管中国试图把自己打造成全球武器市场的一个竞争者，但其先进战斗机的发展仍然处于保密状态。只有大约20家中国公司参加了本次航展，而美国则有173家，很多来自军工行业，并且展示了美国军用和商用飞机的实物，比如V-22鱼鹰式(V-22 Osprey)倾转旋翼机，C-17全球霸王(C-17 Globemaster)运输飞机，多款无人机，以及波音787梦想客机(Boeing 787 Dreamliner)。
Asked whether China was having success in making sales, given the size of its delegation and its model-only displays, one member of the American delegation said, half-jokingly, “Well, they’re trying.”
当被问及中国是否成功地售出了产品时，鉴于其代表团的规模和它只展示了模型，美国代表团的一名成员半开玩笑地说：“这个嘛，他们倒是在努力。”
The delegate, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, added: “Everyone is trying to sell. Us, the French and everyone else.”
由于该问题较为敏感，这位代表不愿具名，他说：“每个人都在设法销售产品。我们、法国人，其他人，都一样。”