SINGAPORE — The vast open field was awash in blue.
新加坡——广阔的空地已被蓝色覆盖。
More than 50,000 people, wearing the color of the opposition Workers’ Party, cheered wildly as speaker after speaker called on Singaporeans to vote for change. Whistles, drums and bugle calls stirred the crowd.
就在发言者接二连三地呼吁新加坡人投票支持改变时，五万多身穿代表反对党工人党的蓝色衬衫的人疯狂欢呼，人群中爆发出口哨声、鼓声和号角声。
“This is the biggest I’ve ever seen,” said Michael Goh, who at 71 is older than independent Singapore itself, as he waded into the rally last week. “You go anywhere, it’s not as big as this.”
“这是我见过的规模最大的集会，”迈克尔·吴(Michael Goh)上周一边走入集会人群，一边说。“你去别的地方看看，规模都没有这么大。”吴先生现年71岁，比独立的新加坡还年长。
For an election in which one party always wins, there has been a lot of excitement on the streets of Singapore ahead of the parliamentary vote on Friday. The vote will be the first since the death of modern Singapore’s founding father, Lee Kuan Yew, in March, and the first in which all 89 seats are being contested. It also comes during the tropical island state’s 50th anniversary of independence.
就这个总是由同一政党获胜的选举而言，在周五进行议会选举之前，新加坡街头已经呈现出激动人心的气氛。这将是自现代新加坡国父李光耀(Lee Kuan Yew)于今年3月去世以来，新加坡的首次大选，也是首次就全部89个席位开展角逐的选举。本次选举恰逢这个热带岛国独立50周年。
Perhaps most important, it is the first general election since 2011, when voters awarded their government with something it had never seen during its five unchallenged decades in power: a barely passing grade. There were signs of discontent, especially among the young and the poor, over the lack of jobs and affordable housing, the rising cost of living and competition from foreign workers.
或许最重要的是，这是2011年以来的首次大选，当时选民们给政府打出了一个在权力未受质疑的50年中从未见到的分数：勉强及格。人们对缺少就业机会和廉价住房、生活成本上升、外国工人的竞争感到不满，在年轻人及贫困人群中尤其是这样。
Chastised by winning barely 60 percent of the vote, its worst showing ever, the governing People’s Action Party, or P.A.P., embarked on a period of soul-searching.
当时执政党人民行动党(People's Action Party)仅以60%的得票赢得选举，因此开始进行反省。这是该党有史以来的最差成绩。
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, the son of Singapore’s founder, publicly apologized for some of his government’s previous policies, and has spent the past four years trying to make amends.
新加坡国父之子、总理李显龙(Lee Hsien Loong)就其政府之前的一些政策公开道歉，并在过去四年中努力弥补。
His government has, among other things, slightly curbed the influx of skilled foreign talent that was perceived to have been taking jobs from Singaporeans, rolled out subsidized health care programs for all Singaporeans and other welfare programs to help the working class deal with high living costs, and tried to make it easier for citizens to buy government-subsidized housing.
除了其他举措外，李显龙领导的政府还对掌握技能的外国人才的涌入稍加限制，人们认为是这些人抢了新加坡人的工作机会，此外他们还推出全民补贴医疗计划及其他福利项目，帮助工薪阶层应对高生活成本，并努力确保民众更容易购买到政府补贴住房。
To help pay for the new programs, the government announced a tax increase in February on the top 5 percent of earners, a radical step in a nation that has low taxes embedded in its DNA.
为了给这些新项目筹措资金，政府在今年2月宣布对收入最高的5%人口加税。在这个低税政策已经根深蒂固的国家，这是一个激进举措。
The question voters will answer on Friday, then, is whether these steps have been enough.
选民们将在周五回答一个问题，即这些举措是否已经足够。
There is little doubt that the governing party will win — even in 2011, it won 81 of the 87 contested seats, thanks to a British-style first-past-the-post formula — but by how much remains to be seen.
执政党获胜并无悬念，由于新加坡实行英式简单多数制，执政党即使在2011年都能赢得87席中的81席。但此次能以多大优势获胜仍有待观察。
“We say that 2011 was a watershed election, but whether it is or not, this time will tell,” said Chua Beng Huat, a political analyst and head of the sociology department at the National University of Singapore.
政治分析人士、新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)社会学系主任蔡明发(Chua Beng Huat)表示，“我们说2011年的选举是一个分水岭，但无论是不是，此次选举将会说明。”
“If the P.A.P. ups its percentage” of the popular vote, he said, “we will have to rewrite the watershed.”
“如果人民行动党的支持率有所增加，”他说。“我们将需要重新设定分水岭。”
Analysts say the party’s main opposition, the populist Workers’ Party, stands a good chance of retaining the six seats it won in 2011, and possibly adding a few more, giving the country a viable opposition for the first time.
分析人士表示，执政党的主要对手——推崇民粹主义的工人党很有希望保住2011年赢得的六个席位，可能会获取更多席位，使得新加坡首次拥有一个像样的反对党。
The Workers’ Party positions itself as the only check on the governing party, which Low Thia Khiang, the head of the Workers’ Party, said otherwise rules by its “whims and fancies.” “We must remind the P.A.P. that there is a distinction between what is national interest and what is the P.A.P.’s party interest,” Mr. Low said at a campaign rally last Thursday.
工人党领袖刘程强(Low Thia Khiang)称，工人党将自己视作唯一能够牵制执政党的力量，否则执政党就会“随心所欲”地治理国家。刘程强上周四参加竞选集会时说，“我们必须提醒人民行动党，国家利益和人民行动党的利益是有区别的。”
For the Workers’ Party, that means more curbs on immigration, the introduction of a minimum wage and more spending on education.
对于工人党来说，这意味着对更多地限制移民、引入最低工资制、增加教育开支。
Mr. Lee and his fellow P.A.P. candidates, meanwhile, are running on the party’s 50-year record and invoking the name of his charismatic father, who through his leadership and sheer force of will turned this once-impoverished former British colonial outpost into a prosperous global financial center within a single generation.
与此同时，李显龙及其政党的候选人正在利用该党50年来的成就、拥有超凡魅力的父亲的名声来竞选，他的父亲通过自己的领导力和意志力，在一代人的时间里将这个曾经贫困的前英国殖民地变成了一个繁荣发展的全球金融中心。
“Let us make the next 50 years better than the past 50,” the prime minister said on a prerecorded television pitch.
李显龙在预先录制的宣传广告中说道，“让我们努力使未来50年超越过去50年。”
Mr. Lee called the elections just weeks after the country celebrated its 50th anniversary on Aug. 9, several months earlier than he had to, and scant months after the death of his father.
李显龙在新加坡于8月9日庆祝建国50周年的几周之后，也就是其父亲去世几个月后，宣布举行选举，将选举时间提前了几个月。
Many older Singaporeans, especially, are content with the Singapore compact, accepting what they see as benign, one-party rule in exchange for little crime, good public education and hospitals, feats of urban planning like recycling sewage into drinking water, near-zero public corruption and streets nearly clean enough to eat from.
很多年长的新加坡人尤其对新加坡的这种约定感到满意，他们接受良性的一党执政，以此换取较少的犯罪、良好的公共教育及医院，将污水回收转化成饮用水等宏伟的城市规划、几乎为零的公共腐败水平，以及干净得简直可以舔的街道。
“If you know how to run a big aircraft, and tomorrow someone comes and tries to take it over, it’s not easy,” said Mohammed Salim, 58, a hotel housekeeper who, while not having a university degree himself, said he had two sons in medical school in the United States.
58岁的酒店管家穆罕默德·萨利姆(Mohammed Salim)说，“如果你知道怎么驾驶一架大型飞机，而某人有一天过来接替你的位置，不是那么容易的事。”萨利姆自己没有上过大学，但他称自己有两个儿子在美国读医学院。
“It’s kind of like a situation where all of us have to break out of our shell to realize that, hey, maybe this is not the way the government should treat us,” said Gabrielle Navarro, 18, who is studying early childhood education at Temasek Polytechnic University.
18岁的加布丽埃勒·纳瓦罗(Gabrielle Navarro)表示，“感觉像是我们所有人都要打破自己的壳，从而认识到，或许政府不应该这么对待我们。”纳瓦罗正在淡马锡理工学院(Temasek Polytechnic University)读早教专业。
But while the election has energized voters, it is unlikely to tip the scales.
选举让选民们活跃起来，但不太可能打破原有的平衡。
“I think we need more voices in Parliament,” said Victoria Tan, a real estate agent in her early 30s.
30岁出头的房产中介维多利亚·谭(Victoria Tan)说，“我觉得我们需要在议会里有更多声音。”
She said she wanted to hear more debate and new ideas from opposition parties. But, when pressed, she acknowledged that she did not want too many opposition candidates elected.
她表示，她希望听到反对党的更多辩论和新想法。但追问之下，她承认自己不希望太多反对党候选人获胜。