On a Monday evening in late June, Darren Lachtman surveyed the sun-dappled patio of Southern Pacific Brewing, a bar and restaurant in a cavernous warehouse in San Francisco’s Mission District. Beer in hand, he nodded toward Robby Ayala, a comedian and employee of Niche, the social media management agency Mr. Lachtman, 32, founded with a partner last July. Mr. Ayala was one of more than a dozen Niche members invited to the company-sponsored happy hour.
6月底的一个周一的晚上，达伦·拉赫曼(Darren Lachtman)在审视南太平洋啤酒屋(Southern Pacific Brewing)阳光斑驳的露台。南太平洋啤酒屋是个酒吧/餐馆，位于旧金山教会区一个空旷的仓库里。拉赫曼拿着啤酒，向罗比·阿亚拉(Robby Ayala)点头致意。阿亚拉是一位喜剧演员，也是小众公司(Niche)的雇员。它是一个社交媒体管理公司，是32岁的拉赫曼去年7月和一个合伙人共同创立的。阿亚拉是被邀请参加该公司赞助的欢乐时光活动的十几个成员之一。
“He got like, 40,000 likes and shares on his last post,” Mr. Lachtman said. (That post featured Mr. Ayala, an affable 23-year old with a kind of frat-boy charm, pouring hot coffee on his bare hand.) “The dog is down there with his 50,000 followers,” Mr. Lachtman went on, gesturing at Biggie Griffon, a pouty Brussels Griffon who sat underneath a pizza-and-cheeseburger-strewn picnic table.
“他的上一个帖子得到了约40000个赞和转发，”拉赫曼说（23岁的阿亚拉和蔼可亲、有点兄弟会成员的感觉，在那个帖子里，他把热咖啡倒到了赤裸的手上）。“下面那只狗有50000个粉丝，”拉赫曼继续说道。他指的是易怒的布鲁塞尔粗毛猎犬格里芬大人(Biggie Griffon)，它坐在一张放满披萨和奶酪汉堡的野餐桌下。
Known online as Biggie Smalls the Notorious D.O.G., Biggie has actually garnered more than 75,000 followers across Instagram, Twitter and Tumblr with punny posts involving rap lyrics and improbable photos. He is paid in turn to promote brands like BarkBox, a subscription service for dog accessories, on his social media feeds, with Niche brokering the deals.
格里芬大人就是网上“臭名昭著的狗，小大人”（Biggie Smalls the Notorious D.O.G，名字来自说唱歌手Notorious B.I.G.——译注），它在Instagram、Twitter和Tumblr上有超过75000个粉丝，那些一语双关的帖子配有说唱歌词和不可思议的照片。它在自己的社交媒体账户页面上宣传狗用品订购公司犬吠箱(BarkBox)等品牌以获得报酬，安排这些交易的正是小众公司。
In an era of new economies, this may be one of the most curious: the network that has sprung up to help the follower-laden stars of Instagram, Vine, Pinterest and other social media services make money by connecting them with brands wanting to advertise to their audiences. People like Mr. Lachtman and his co-founder, Rob Fishman, run what may be seen as a parallel universe to Hollywood, one in which shares and likes matter more than box-office sales and paparazzi shots. Here, authenticity — a word that comes up often in this arena — trumps a Photoshop-perfect facade or publicist-approved message.
在这个新经济时代，这可能是最让人好奇的一种现象：这个突然涌现出来的生意网络把Instagram、Vine、Pinterest及其他社交媒体上粉丝众多的明星与想对他们的观众做广告的品牌联系起来，帮明星们赚钱。像拉赫曼和他的合伙人罗布·菲什曼(Rob Fishman)这样的人经营着一个与好莱坞平行的世界，在这里，转发和点赞比票房收入和狗仔队的照片更重要。在这里，真实感——在这个世界里经常出现的一个词——比Photoshop修出来的门面或宣传人员赞同的广告词更重要。
Some of these agents want to groom their clients (or creators, as they’re often called) into marquee names who can resonate beyond a smartphone screen. (Though it’s worth noting that some already have a bigger following than “traditional” celebrities: Nash Grier, Instagram’s answer to the archetypical teenage idol, has more than 5.9 million followers on the social network; Oprah Winfrey has about half that.)
其中一些代理人们想把他们的客户（他们经常被称为创作者）打造成大明星，希望他们能在手机屏幕之外引起人们的共鸣（不过需要指出的是，有些人的粉丝数已经超过了“传统”名人：纳什·格里尔[Nash Grier]是Instagram上的典型青少年偶像。他在社交网络上有590多万粉丝；奥普拉·温弗雷[Oprah Winfrey]的粉丝大约只有他的一半）。
“We want to cultivate these stars, and if they graduate to being the next Jimmy Fallon, great,” said Gary Vaynerchuk, a founder of the New York-based GrapeStory, an agency that represents a coterie of Vine comedians in addition to other social media personalities. “But when they’re just trying to get $10,000 or $20,000 out of a brand, which is life-changing for these kids, we know how to get it done.”
“我们想培养这些明星，如果他们想成为下一位吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)，当然很好，”纽约的葡萄故事公司(GrapeStory)的创始人加里·维纳查克(Gary Vaynerchuk)说。这个代理公司除了代理其他社交媒体上的名人之外，还代理Vine上的一小群喜剧演员。“但是如果他们只是想从一个品牌那里获得1万或2万美元——对这些孩子来说这具有改变人生的意义——我们知道如何实现。”
“You come work with GrapeStory,” he added, “you’re guaranteed to make five and six figures per year.”
“与葡萄故事公司合作，”他补充说，“你每年一定能赚数万或数十万美元。”
While the metrics of the businesses may be different — Niche, for example, charges brands for the use of their services instead of talent — these agencies share much of the bravado of their Hollywood counterparts. Jason Stein, the founder of the social media agency Laundry Service , which in April started Cycle, a division dedicated to Instagram personalities, slams the lack of respect given to this new breed of stars with Ari Gold-level enthusiasm.
虽然这些公司各有特色——比如小众公司不是向社交网络名人，而是向品牌收取佣金——这些公司和好莱坞电影公司一样喜欢虚张声势。社交媒体代理公司洗衣服务公司(Laundry Service)的创始人詹森·斯坦(Jason Stein)以阿里·戈尔德(Ari Glod)般的激情，批评人们对这些新型明星缺乏尊重。该公司4月份开设了一个名叫“循环”(Cycle)的部门，专门为Instagram上的名人服务。
On a recent afternoon at Laundry Service’s New York office, which is decorated with custom wallpaper that shows Victorian-era figures steam-ironing the Facebook logo, Mr. Stein, 29, and Liz Eswein, 25, the executive director of Cycle, were talking about how Ms. Eswein was paid around $50 a promotional post as recently as two years ago. (Ms. Eswein, who created the Instagram account newyorkcity while studying media and communications at New York University, now has more than 1.2 million followers on the social network.)
洗衣服务公司的纽约办公室里贴着定制的壁纸，上面是维多利亚时代的人物在熨烫Facebook的商标。前不久的一个下午，29岁的斯坦和循环部的执行总监、25岁的利兹·埃斯温(Liz Eswein)在办公室里谈论两年前埃斯温发布了一条促销帖子，获得了约50美元（埃斯温在纽约大学学习媒体和沟通时开设了Instagram账户newyorkcity，如今她在社交网络上有120多万个粉丝）。
“People still come and think they can get away with that, and it’s like, ‘You’ve got to be kidding,’ ” Mr. Stein said, throwing up his hands. “What are they thinking? It’s literally getting away with robbery.”
“现在人们仍然认为自己能碰上这样的好事，这就像，‘你开玩笑呢吧？’”斯坦扬起双手说，“他们在想什么呢？那简直就是抢劫。”
If Mr. Stein comes out swinging, Ms. Eswein coddles. She acts as a kind of den mother to the more than 1,000 Instagram photographers Cycle represents, who have been paid to do projects for brands including Michael Kors and Coach. “It’s less about, how much can you make this year, and more about educating the photographer and what their worth is,” she said.
如果斯坦是严父，那埃斯温就是慈母。她像是循环部代理的1000多名Instagram照片发布者的女训导，这些人曾参与迈克高仕(Michael Kors)和蔻驰(Coach)等品牌的宣传项目并获得报酬。“重要的不是你今年能赚多少，而是培养这些人，让他们知道自己的价值，”她说。
That worth can be significant. Niche’s so-called branded marketing deals can pay upward of five figures a post — enough that one of Biggie’s owners, Lindsey Louie, quit her job with Google to work full time on Biggie’s feeds and work as the company’s community manager. Niche also enables creators to track their performances across social networks (what post got like after like on Instagram but flopped on Facebook, for example) and allows brands to see which creators work best for them.
他们的价值可能非常巨大。小众公司所谓的品牌推广交易可以让一个帖子获得五位数的报酬——这样的报酬足以使得“小大人”的其中一位所有者林德赛·路易(Lindsey Louie)辞去在谷歌的工作，专门忙于“小大人”的网页，同时担任小众公司的社区主管。该公司还能让创作者们追踪自己在各个社交网站上的表现（比如，什么帖子在Instagram上得到了很多赞，但是在Facebook上却反响平平），能让品牌看到哪些创作者对他们最有用。
“We’ll do stuff like discount codes,” Mr. Lachtman explained on a Wednesday afternoon in Niche’s San Francisco office. This time, Biggie was out of the crate and padding across the conference room table, paws sometimes landing on Mr. Lachtman’s MacBook. “Biggie gets a custom code; let’s see how many BarkBoxes he sells versus other dogs.”
“我们会用优惠代码这样的东西，”拉赫曼周三下午在小众公司的旧金山办公室里说。这一次，“小大人”从板条箱里出来，趴在会议桌上，爪子有时搭在拉赫曼的苹果笔记本电脑上。“‘小大人’有一个优惠代码；让我们看看他和其他狗分别卖出了多少个犬吠箱。”
“The dog demographic on these social platforms is huge,” he added, scanning Biggie’s statistics on his screen. Mr. Lachtman recounted an April Fool’s Day campaign Niche did with American Eagle called American Beagle. “We flew a bunch of dogs to their headquarters in Pittsburgh,” he said. “I think we had five dogs that each had 400,000 followers. It’s a crazy audience. It works really well.”
“这些社交平台上的狗的品种非常多，”他一边浏览屏幕上“小大人”的数据一边补充说。拉赫曼讲述了愚人节那天小众公司和AE美国鹰(American Eagle)合作的一个名叫美国比格犬(American Beagle)的宣传活动。“我们把一群狗用飞机运到他们在匹兹堡的总部，”他说，“我们运过去五只狗，每只狗大约有40万个粉丝。观众们非常疯狂。活动真的非常有效。”
Brands see upsides beyond increasing their profiles. They can spend far less on an advertising campaign executed through these social media platforms than more mainstream ones, which is part of the allure of hiring a budding Instagram photographer to shoot a project versus, say, Mario Testino.
品牌看到了提高形象之外的好处。他们通过这些媒体平台进行一次广告宣传的费用比通过主流媒体要便宜得多，这是吸引他们雇佣Instagram上的一个初露头角的照片发布者而非马里奥·泰斯蒂诺(Mario Testino)进行广告宣传的原因。
General Electric, which came to Niche to find people to evangelize “Spring Break It,” a campaign to promote its work with advanced materials, declined to say how much it paid each of the eight creators it involved in the project, but Linda Boff, G.E.'s executive director of global brand marketing, described it as “a fraction of a fraction of the cost” the company would have paid to advertise on a traditional distribution channel, like television.
通用电器公司让小众公司找人宣传“春假行动”(Spring Break It)，该活动旨在宣传该公司对新材料的采用。通用电器公司拒绝透露它付给参与该活动的八位创作者每人多少钱，但是该公司全球品牌推广的执行总监琳达·博夫(Linda Boff)说，这只是该公司通常付给电视等传统宣传渠道的费用的“很小一部分”。
One of the personalities featured in “Spring Break It” was Mr. Ayala, the Vine comedian and Niche employee who has gained more than three million followers with his goofy, self-deprecating posts — or as he described it at the San Francisco happy hour, “really, really dumb skits.” (A recent Vine featured him washing his face with Skittles.)
参与“春假行为”的其中一位名人是阿亚拉。他是Vine网站的喜剧演员和小众公司的雇员，他愚笨、自嘲的帖子吸引了300多万个粉丝。他在旧金山的欢乐时光上说自己的帖子是“很傻、很傻的短剧”（他最近在Vine上发布的短片是用彩虹糖洗脸）。
Mr. Ayala started posting short comedy videos on Vine while at Florida Atlantic University. Last year, shortly after he started law school, Niche contacted him with an opportunity: attend the premiere of “Last Vegas” and upload a series of Vines to promote the movie. The deal went so well, Mr. Lachtman offered Mr. Ayala a job helping manage Niche’s creators and the brands they work with, which he would be able to do while building up his own social media presence. Mr. Ayala left law school and has no plans to go back.
阿亚拉在佛罗里达大西洋大学上学时开始在Vine上发布喜剧短片。去年，在他上法学院之后不久，小众公司联系上他，给了他一个机会：参加《最后的维加斯》(Last Vegas)的首映仪式，在Vine上发布一系列视频来宣传这部影片。这项交易进行得很好，拉赫曼给了阿亚拉一个工作，让他帮助管理小众公司的创作者们以及与他们合作的品牌，他可以一边做这份工作，一边提升自己的社交媒体影响力。阿亚拉离开了法学院，不打算再回去了。
“I don’t know, social media and marketing seem a lot more interesting than civil procedure,” he said. “Law school didn’t really interest me. I was in class just avoiding getting called on by the professor.”
“我不知道，社交媒体和市场推广看起来比民事诉讼有趣多了，”他说，“我对法学院并不真的感兴趣。我去上课只是为了避免教授登门造访。”
For social media stars, this is part of what makes agencies that cater to them crucial: They focus on people (possibly fighting sleep in a law school classroom) who may not be discovered by traditional means, whose talents may not fit into an existing category, unlike the Justin Biebers of the YouTube world.
对社交媒体的明星们来说，这是那些为他们服务的代理公司变得重要的原因：这些公司关注的是没有被传统渠道发现的人（他们可能正在法学院的教室里强忍着不打瞌睡），他们的才能不适合现有的门类，不是YouTube里的贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)那样的人物。
And though they’re new, these agencies offer legitimacy. Scott Borrero, a photographer prominent on Instagram who uses Niche and the agency Conscious Minds to do deals with brands like Nike, said that after he obtained management, “people took me more seriously.”
虽然这些代理公司是新兴的，但是它们提供了正当性。斯科特·博雷罗(Scott Borrero)是Instagram上的红人，他利用小众公司和清醒头脑公司(Conscious Minds)与耐克这样的品牌合作。他说在有了代理公司之后，“人们更把我当回事了”。
“You can only do so much on your own,” he mused at Niche’s happy hour, twiddling with his iPhone, which he had just used to edit an “outfit of the day” shot of Ms. Louie, one of Biggie the dog’s owners. (“V8, there’s no V8 filter, that’s a juice!” he joked during the process, swiping through an array of photo retouching apps as Ms. Louie looked over his shoulder.)
“你自己只能做这么多，”他在小众公司的欢乐时光中一边摆弄iPhone一边说。他刚用手机编辑了“小大人”的主人之一路易女士的“当日着装”照（路易扭头看他的手机时，他给她翻看一个个修图软件，并开玩笑说：“V8，没有V8滤镜，这是果汁！”）。
The agencies also foster a sense of community. (At the Niche happy hour, one photographer yelled across the patio to another, “Hey, I know you from Instagram!”) Michael O’Neal, a founder of the agency Tinker Mobile, which represents photographers with large Instagram followings, perched atop a picnic table and reminisced about a gallery show Tinker participated in last November featuring 100 portraits from 50 photographers, all shot with an iPhone. “It was about bringing people together and elevating what’s on a screen to a gallery wall,” he said.
这些代理公司还培养了一种社区意识（在小众公司的欢乐时光中，Instagram上的一位照片发布者对露台另一边的一个人喊道：“嘿，我在Instagram上认识了你！”）。迈克尔·奥尼尔(Michael O’Neal)是移动修补匠代理公司(Tinker Mobile)的创始人，该公司代理Instagram上有众多粉丝的照片发布者。奥尼尔倚在一张野餐桌上，回忆起去年11月移动修补匠公司参与的一个画廊展览，展示的是50位照片发布者的100张肖像，那些照片全部是用iPhone拍摄的。“它把人们聚到一起，把屏幕上的东西挂到了画廊的墙上，”他说。
Traditional agencies want in, too. William Morris Endeavor (WME) represents about 100 Internet stars, including Mr. Grier and Joy Cho, who has amassed more than 13 million Pinterest followers (and partnerships with brands like Target) with inspiration boards about fashion, food and lifestyle. In an email, Ms. Cho touted the agency’s ability to put large companies dabbling in social media at ease, saying the brands “often feel more comfortable going into a new territory when a company like WME is vouching for the power of someone’s reach.”
传统代理公司也想参与进来。威廉·莫里斯奋进公司(William Morris Endeavor, WME)代理了约100位网络明星，包括格里尔和乔伊·周(Joy Cho)，后者在Pinterest上有1300万粉丝（与塔吉特百货公司[Target]等品牌合作），创作灵感主要是时装、美食和生活方式。在一封邮件中，乔伊·周吹嘘这家公司很有能力，能轻松地让大公司涉猎社交媒体，说“当威廉·莫里斯奋进公司这样的公司担保某人的影响力时，一些品牌会更放心地进入一个新领域”。