WELCOME to the “new mediocre.” It’s not quite the New Look, or the New Deal, but it is the new normal.
欢迎来到“新平庸主义”时代。不是新面貌，也不是新政，而是新常态。
At least according to Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, who coined the term a few weeks ago.
至少国际货币基金组织总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)是这么认为的。几周前，她创造了这个词。
She was referring to the global economy, of course, which she thought could use a jolt lest it “muddle along with subpar growth,” but her words, uttered during a relatively small-scale speech at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, have had an impact far beyond the school’s borders and the world of economists (though said economists were very het up about it), reaching into the Twitterverse.
当然，她指的是全球经济，她认为需要给全球经济带来一点震撼，以免它“以欠佳的增长水平得过且过”。她是在乔治城大学外交事务学院的一个相对小型的讲话中提到这个词的。但是该词的影响力已经超越那个学院的边界和经济学家的领域（虽然据说经济学家们对这个词很是恼火），来到Twitter的世界。
Macroeconomic theory rarely seems to have much to do with the minutiae of everyday life, but in this case Ms. Lagarde’s phrase has a surprisingly resonant application. Suddenly, that free-floating malaise and lack of inspiration everyone keeps complaining about has a name.
宏观经济理论似乎与琐碎的日常生活没有太大关系，但是拉加德的这个词出人意料地引起了人们的共鸣，被广泛使用。人们一直在抱怨随波逐流的痼疾和缺乏激励的状态。突然之间，这种状态有了一个名字。
Consider, for example, fashion (admittedly, I am a fashion person so I would consider it, but stick with me).
比如时装（无可否认，作为时尚界人士，我肯定首先想到它，但是请听我把话说完）。
The reason for that feeling of déjà vu I had as I sat through fashion show after fashion show during the last ready-to-wear season and saw yet more “reinventions” and “homages” to 1960s rock chick dresses and 1970s flared trousers, 1980s power jackets and 1920s flapper frocks, and wondered, “How do I explain this lack of new ideas among so many extremely talented designers?” The new mediocre.
上一季那一场又一场成衣时装秀让我有一种似曾相识的感觉，它们只是对过去款式的略微“改造”或者“致敬”：20世纪60年代的摇滚女郎连衣裙，70年代的喇叭裤，80年代的硬挺夹克(power jacket)，20年代的轻佻女郎连衫裙。当时我心想：“我怎么来形容这么多极有才华的设计师们缺乏新思路的情况呢？”现在我有了一个词：新平庸主义。
The inexplicable fact that Normcore, which effectively means dressing in bland and generic clothes, has somehow managed to be elevated to the status of phenomenon rather than joke or just-stuff-that’s-in-your-closet (which, let’s be honest, it is)? The new mediocre.
普通核(Normcore)可以用来生动地形容平淡普通的衣服，不知为何，如今它成了一种“现象”，而不是开玩笑，或者指你衣橱里的衣服不过如此而已（说实话，难道不是这样吗？），如何来解释这种费解的情况呢？新平庸主义。
The answer to the endless debate we in the industry have over why big fashion groups would rather buy an old brand name than back a fresh one? The new mediocre.
我们一直在争论：为什么大型时装集团宁愿收购老品牌，也不愿支持新品牌？现在有了答案：新平庸主义。
Given that the underlying principle of fashion is to identify that ephemeral state of culture and society known as the zeitgeist and reflect it back at the world in sartorial form, this would suggest that what has been happening in fashion, and the explanation for it, actually reflects a broader reality. And indeed, once you start thinking along new mediocre lines, you see it everywhere.
时装的根本原则是找出文化和社会中短暂易逝的状态，也就是时代思潮，然后以服装的形式反映给世人，所以时尚界的情况以及对它的解释实际上反映了更广阔的现实。的确，一旦你开始沿着新平庸主义的线索思考，你会发现它无处不在。
Reading about the Republican economic agenda, for example, which Prof. Matthew J. Slaughter of Dartmouth labeled “a compendium of modest expectations,” I thought, “Oh, there’s the new mediocre at work.” When my husband complained about President Obama’s compromised agenda, I shrugged and said, “It’s just the new mediocre.”
比如，我在阅读共和党的经济议程时——达特茅斯的马修·J·斯劳特(Matthew J. Slaughter)教授称之为“适度预期纲要”——心想，“哦，这是新平庸主义在起作用。”当我丈夫抱怨奥巴马总统的折中议程时，我耸耸肩说，“这就是新平庸主义。”
Talking to a banker friend who was bemoaning the trend toward investors’ losing faith in the idea of genius hedge funds that can outperform the market and moving their money into index funds, hence “settling for average returns,” I nodded knowingly and said, “Oh, that’s the new mediocre.”
一位银行业朋友跟我悲叹，如今投资者对优于市场表现的聪明的对冲基金失去信心，把钱转到指数基金，“满足于平均收益”，我会意地点点头说，“哦，那是新平庸主义。”
The fall in Twitter’s stock price as investors began to worry about “lackluster” revenue and user growth? Blame the new mediocre! The fact that Rob Ford, Toronto’s disgraced ex-mayor, still managed to win a City Council seat? The new mediocre (it exists in Canada, too).
由于投资者开始为Twitter“平凡的”收益和用户增长感到担心，它的股价下跌了。那就怪新平庸主义吧！多伦多名声扫地的前市长罗伯·福特(Rob Ford)居然在市议会谋得了一个职位？新平庸主义（它也存在于多伦多）。
That feeling of browsing your Kindle, or standing in your local Barnes & Noble, faced with yet more young adult trilogies about dystopias and tough-girl heroines, or soft-porn-for-grown-ups trilogies (or just trilogies, period), and thinking, “What is there to read?” The new mediocre.
你浏览Kindle时或者站在当地的巴尔内斯书店(Barnes & Noble)浏览数不清的以反乌托邦坚强女孩为主人公的青年三部曲或者软色情成人三部曲（或者只是三部曲）时，心想：“有什么可读的吗？”新平庸主义。
That harrumph when you peruse the movie listings and find yourself choosing between comic-book-hero action films and old-guy action films — unless you want to go way, way across town to the one surviving and obscure art-house cinema that values conversation over abs? The new mediocre.
你浏览电影排片表时，发现自己只能在漫画英雄动作片和老硬汉动作片之间选择，不免叹息了一声。除非你愿意大老远跑到城那头那个仅存的鲜为人知的艺术电影影院——它更看重对话而非腹肌。新平庸主义。
In fact, the only time I refuse to accept the new mediocre as an explanation of a real-life situation is in the context of my children’s excuse for so-so homework. But then, there is nothing new about parental hypocrisy.
实际上，在现实生活中，只有在我的孩子们以作业太乏味为借口拒绝写作业时我才不接受以新平庸主义为借口。不过这说明父母的伪善也毫无新意。
Granted, the above is a broad generalization, and there are pockets of brilliance and hope amid the gloom (“House of Cards” and “True Detective,” for example, or the proliferation of small independent presses). But that doesn’t obviate the general trend: Such examples are the exceptions that prove the rule. They stick out because, in the world of the new mediocre, they are so rare.
诚然，上面这些是总体概括，黑暗之中还是有点光明和希望的（比如《纸牌屋》[House of Cards]和《真探》[True Detective]，以及数量剧增的小独立出版社）。但这并不妨碍整体趋势：这些例子是例外，反而证明了这一规律。它们很突出是因为在新平庸主义的世界里，它们很少见。
Still, while being able to identify and explain something might be very satisfying (if, in this case, a little depressing), it does not make it any more palatable. Though it does raise the question: How did we get here?
不过，虽然发现和解释某个现象可能让人觉得非常满足（虽然这个发现同时也让人有点沮丧），但它不能让情况变得更令人愉快。不过它的确提出了一个问题：我们是怎么变成这样的？
Arguably, all of this cultural and political mediocrity is related to Ms. Lagarde’s economic mediocrity; as conventional wisdom goes, when the economy is slow, both businesses — creative and otherwise — and individuals tend to play it cautious, opting for incremental change to known quantities or for milquetoast recreations of what succeeded before, as opposed to radical change.
文化和政治上的平庸很可能都与拉加德所说的经济上的平庸有关；正如人们普遍认为的，当经济增速放缓时，不管是公司还是个人，不管是否有创造力，都倾向于谨慎行事，选择增加现有事物的数量或者略微改造之前成功的事物，而不会进行彻底改变。
This is particularly true in the current global environment, where some countries are experiencing signs of a positive upswing, while others languish on the downward slope. When it’s all bad, there’s no choice but to take risks to jolt people into awareness (or purchasing: You have to give ’em something they definitely could not have bought before). But in this state of uncertainty about where markets are going, there’s security in the familiarity of a fur-lined Birkenstock. No matter how ridiculous it might be.
在目前的全球环境中尤其如此。有些国家出现经济上扬的迹象，而其他国家仍在继续下滑。当情况总体不佳时，没有别的选择，只能冒险给人们打一针强心剂（或者鼓动人们购买：你必须提供一些他们肯定没买过的东西）。但是在不确定市场走向的情况下，熟悉能带来安全感，比如皮毛勃肯鞋(Birkenstock)。不管它会多么滑稽。
We get locked in a vicious cycle of same-old-safe-old. You see it in the endless fetishization of the sneaker, the vampire-meets-girl retreads and the obsessive fixation on yet another maybe-possible Clinton/Bush standoff. That’s a political drama at least we think we know.
我们陷入了恶性循环，不断重复安全的老款。没完没了地盲目崇拜帆布鞋，反复演绎吸血鬼遇上女孩的戏码，痴心妄想着再次出现克林顿/布什时代的僵局。当时那种政治局面至少是我们觉得自己了解的。
And it is all exacerbated, certainly in creativity’s commercial case, by the concurrent belief that consumer interest can be piqued simply by a never-ending cascade of new stuff, thus making it even harder for anybody to have enough time to think up actually new new stuff, and forcing them — designers, authors, producers, what have you — into having to rejigger old stuff to make it look like new stuff.
同时在创意商业领域，人们认为，只要不断推出大量新产品，就能调动消费者的兴趣，这让情况变得更糟。因为它让所有人都没有足够的时间真正去设计全新的产品，迫使设计师、作家和制片人等不得不改造旧产品，让它们看起来像新产品。
Got that?
你明白了吗？
The problem is that the more familiar a product is, the less exciting it is, which makes it less likely to do well, which makes it really not a safe bet at all. More than 30 years after the Me Decade, we are in the middle of the Meh Decade (as my grandmother might say).
问题是一个产品越让人觉得熟悉，就越不令人兴奋，就更不可能畅销，完全不可能成为稳赢的赌注。在“唯我的十年”(Me Decade)过去30多年后，我们来到了“无聊的十年”（Meh Decade，我祖母可能会这样说）。
Or so it seems. Given that eras tend not to get their permanent label until a few years after they have officially ended, there may be some time for this to change. And in that context, perhaps there is something to be said for another truism of fashion, which states that what comes in must go out. It’s the style equivalent of Newton’s third law of motion. If accurate, this would dictate that, at some point, the new mediocre will become the old mediocre.
至少看起来是这样的。一个时代总是在它正式结束几年之后才得到永久标签，所以这种情况可能要过一段时间才会改变。到那时，也许会提到时尚界的另一个不言自明的规律：流行的东西必须过时。它相当于时尚界的牛顿第三运动定律。如果它是准确的，那么可以预言：在某一时刻，新平庸主义将成为旧平庸主义。