SINGAPORE — Thousands of Singaporeans braved torrential rains on Sunday for a final farewell to the country’s founding prime minister, Lee Kuan Yew, whose funeral drew a long list of leaders and dignitaries from across the globe.
新加坡——数千名新加坡人周日冒着暴雨向该国开国总理李光耀做了最后的告别，李光耀的葬礼吸引了一大批来自世界各地的领导人和政要。 
Mr. Lee’s coffin was paraded through the rain-soaked streets to the National University of Singapore, where the funeral service was held ahead of a private cremation. The route of the procession incorporated symbols from Mr. Lee’s career, passing by the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau — a tribute to Mr. Lee’s reputation for incorruptibility — and two of the country’s oldest government-backed housing developments in a nation with one of the world’s highest rates of homeownership.
李光耀的灵柩在暴雨中从街道上经过，前往新加坡国立大学，葬礼在那里举行，之后举行了私人的遗体火葬仪式。灵柩沿途经过了李光耀职业生涯中具有代表意义的地标，包括体现李光耀廉洁声誉的贪污调查局(Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau)，以及该国两个历史最悠久的政府支持的住房开发项目，新加坡是世界上住房自有率最高的国家之一。
As the coffin passed, crowds shouted, “Lee Kuan Yew! We love you!” To allow more people to see, spectators in the front line closed their umbrellas as the procession passed, despite the pouring rain.
随着灵柩从眼前经过，人群喊道，“李光耀！我们爱你！”尽管下着倾盆大雨，但为了让更多的人能看到灵柩，站在前排的人把雨伞收了起来。
“This has been a dark week for Singapore,” Lee Hsien Loong, Singapore’s prime minister and Mr. Lee’s eldest son, said in a nationally televised speech. “That light that has guided us all these years has been extinguished.”
新加坡总理、李光耀长子李显龙在全国电视讲话中说，“对新加坡来说，这是黑暗的一周。这些年来指引我们的明灯熄灭了。”
The prime minister eulogized his father, who died last Monday at 91, as “a straight talker” who “never shied away from hard truths.”
李显龙在悼词中称父亲“说话坦率”，“从不回避严酷的现实。”李光耀上周一去世，享年91岁。
He gave his eulogy in a mix of English, Malay and Mandarin Chinese, three of the official languages of the city-state, which gained full self-government from the British in 1959 and which the elder Mr. Lee governed from then until 1990, when he stepped down.
李显龙致悼词时混合使用了英语、马来语和普通话，这是此城邦国家的三种官方语言，新加坡在1959年从英国殖民地成为完全独立的国家，李光耀从那时起担任总理，一直到他1990年卸任。
During that long rule, he transformed Singapore into one of the wealthiest and least corrupt nations in Asia. His hugely successful “Singapore model” was sometimes criticized as soft authoritarianism and included centralized power, clean government and economic liberalism along with the suppression of political opposition and strict limits on free speech.
在其漫长的统治期间，他把新加坡变成亚洲最富有且最廉洁的国家之一。他极为成功的“新加坡模式”有时被批评为软独裁，这个模式的特点是集权、廉洁政府，以及奉行经济自由主义，同时压制政治反对派，严格限制言论自由。
Former President Bill Clinton was in the audience, as was the former American secretary of state Henry Kissinger, who called Mr. Lee “a close personal friend.” Also in attendance were Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia; the British first secretary of state, William Hague; Prime Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia; Vice President Li Yuanchao of China; Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India; Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea.
参加葬礼的有美国前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)以及前国务卿亨利·基辛格(Henry Kissinger)，基辛格称李光耀为“亲密的私人朋友”。参加葬礼的还有澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)，英国首席国务大臣威廉·黑格(William Hague)，柬埔寨首相洪森，中国国家副主席李源潮，印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)，日本首相安倍晋三，以及韩国总统朴槿惠。
The number of prominent guests at the funeral was outsized for the city-state, a reflection of Mr. Lee’s role as an adviser to world leaders and a statesman.
出席葬礼的重要人物之多，远远超过了这个城邦国家自身的地位，反映了李光耀作为世界各国领导人顾问及其本人作为政治家的名声。
“Despite being small, Singapore’s voice is heard, and we enjoy far more influence on the world stage than we have any reason to expect,” his son said in the eulogy.
李显龙在悼词中说，“尽管新加坡很小，但世界听到了她的声音。我们在世界舞台上所享有的影响力，远远超出我们有任何理由所预期的。”
The funeral capped a week of public grieving that included a large turnout at Parliament, where his body was displayed for four days and where many people waited up to 10 hours to see him. In a country of 5.5 million residents, more than 450,000 people viewed Mr. Lee’s body, and another 1.1 million paid their respects at centers set up across the city-state for people to express their condolences.
葬礼结束了一周的公众哀悼活动，其间大批新加坡人前往国会瞻仰他的遗体，遗体在国会陈列了四天，很多人为了瞻仰遗体等待了长达10个小时。在这个只有550万人口的国家，有逾45万人瞻仰了李光耀的遗体，另有110万人前往城市其它地方设立的、让人们哀悼的站点表达敬意。