ASTANA, Kazakhstan —This city of contemporary buildings recalls a mini-Dubai, but is planted in the middle of the Asian steppe and mixes cutting-edge architecture with traditional pastimes.
哈萨克斯坦阿斯塔纳——这座现代建筑林立的城市让人觉得像一个小迪拜。但它坐落在亚洲干草原中央，而且在这里，尖端的当代建筑和传统娱乐活动融为一体。
A multistory glass pyramid with white doves on the windows pays homage to peace. A steel tower shaped like an ice cream cone stands in honor of the nation’s president, Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, who moved the Kazakh capital here 16 years ago and spent billions of oil dollars to create an urban showpiece.
一栋金字塔结构的多层玻璃建筑的窗户上有白鸽图案，象征着对和平的向往。一栋外形像冰激凌蛋筒的大楼高高耸立，向该国总统努尔苏丹·A·纳扎尔巴耶夫(Nursultan A. Nazarbayev)致敬。正是纳扎尔巴耶夫在16年前将哈萨克首都迁至此处，并用石油带来的数十亿美元打造出了这座样板城市。
The latest addition is an opera house with an opulent interior of beige and red Italian marble, a 3,500-pound Bohemian glass chandelier and a lobby about a third the size of a soccer field.
最新的建筑是一座歌剧院。歌剧院内部是用米黄色和红色意大利大理石装饰的，富丽堂皇，有一盏重3500磅（约合1600公斤）的波西米亚风格玻璃枝形吊灯。歌剧院大厅的面积大约相当于三分之一个足球场。
But beneath the futuristic and expensive designs, ancient traditions of Kazakhstan’s nomadic origins — some say dating from the days of Genghis Khan — are making a comeback on the sports field.
但在这些新潮而昂贵的设计背后，哈萨克斯坦游牧血统的古老传统正在体育场上重新兴起。有人说，这些传统可以追溯到成吉思汗(Genghis Khan)时期。
Nostalgia is not limited to sports. Some older residents, who admire the sleek new city, still fondly recall the architecture of the 1950s. Back then the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev transformed this place, then known as Tselinograd, into the headquarters of a campaign to improve the Soviet Union’s grain production.
怀旧之情不仅限于体育运动。一些上了年纪的居民虽然喜欢这座阔气的新城，但也会深情地回忆上世纪50年代的建筑。那时，苏联领导人尼基塔·S·赫鲁晓夫(Nikita S. Khrushchev)把这里变成了一场提高苏联粮食生产运动的总部。当时，这里还叫切利诺格勒。
Recently, on the outskirts of the city at a stadium slick with rain and mud, the first Central Asian championship of kokpar, an equestrian sport, was in full swing.
最近，在这座城市市郊一座泥泞湿滑的体育场里，首届中亚叼羊(kokpar)锦标赛正在如火如荼地进行。叼羊是一种马术运动。
Mr. Nazarbayev’s capital seemed a world away. Kokpar, known as buzkashi in Afghanistan, is a tough version of that gentlemanly game, polo. Instead of playing from the back of a horse with wooden mallets and a ball, riders use their bare hands and lean to pick up a headless sheep or goat from the ground. They then race to the goal clutching the dead animal.
纳扎尔巴耶夫打造的首都似乎远在另一个世界。叼羊是绅士运动马球的硬汉版，在阿富汗也被称作布玆卡兹。参赛选手不是骑在马背上用木质球槌争相进球，而是徒手弯腰从地上捡起一只无头绵羊或山羊。然后他们抓着那具动物尸体奔向终点。
Instead of goal posts, large caldrons, a bit like inflatable backyard swimming pools, serve as goals. Riders score by heaving the dead animal over the rim of the goal.
叼羊比赛没有门柱，充当球门的是巨型大锅，有点像房屋后院的充气式游泳池。马背上的选手将动物尸体扔过锅边便可得分。
Each team plays four riders on horses, and the scrum of horses and riders pushing, colliding and surging around the goal with whips cracking creates a rough and violent contact sport.
每队有四名骑马参赛的选手。马匹和选手们在那具动物尸体周围推搡、碰撞、冲刺，马鞭被呼呼扬起。这种粗野、有剧烈身体接触的运动便是在这种乱哄哄的场面中进行的。
“It’s a kind of cruel game playing with a dead sheep, but in our country it’s normal,” said Marat Baytugelov, a retired player, who was watching from the stands as the home team routed the players from Tajikistan. (In the old days, villagers would cluster on hilltops to get a better view.) “The most difficult thing is getting the goal. You have to have strong arms, strong stamina, and you must ride the horse well.”
“用死羊进行比赛是很残忍，但在我们国家，这很正常，”退役选手马拉特·巴伊图格罗夫(Marat Baytugelov)说，“最难的是抢到目标。你必须要有很强的臂力和耐力，骑术还必须精湛。”他在看台上观看比赛，此刻主队正痛击来自塔吉克斯坦的选手。（过去，为了能看得更清楚，村民们会聚集在山顶上。）
The animal carcass, he added, cannot be just any weight. Heft is mandatory. It must weigh at least 30 kilograms, or 66 pounds.
他接着说，动物尸体的重量不是随意的，有强制性要求。至少要30公斤，即66磅。
The Central Asian tournament was organized as a prelude to Expo 2017, when Astana will be the host city. Kokpar is expected to be a star attraction, at least for the Central Asian crowd, and even for fans farther afield.
阿斯塔纳将举办2017年世博会(Expo 2017)。中亚锦标赛正是世博会的前奏。届时，叼羊比赛有望成为明星赛事，至少会吸引中亚观众，乃至更远地方的人。
To that end, a team from Turkey was invited to participate at the stadium event, and it expects to be back in 2017. The Turkish manager, Sinan Secer, said kokpar had grown in popularity in Turkey, and was played by Turks living in Greece.
为此，正在这座体育场进行的比赛邀请了土耳其的一支队伍参赛。预计这支队伍在2017年还会来阿斯塔纳参加比赛。土耳其这支队伍的经理锡南·赛赛尔(Sinan Secer)说，叼羊比赛在土耳其越来越受欢迎，而且，生活在希腊的土耳其人也会举行叼羊比赛。
The game has yet to make headway in Western Europe, he said, where animal rights activists protest the use of a dead animal. But whether the animal was real or fake was just a “nuance,” he said. “It doesn’t have to be a dead animal.” Indeed, some consideration is being given to using fake carcasses, he said.
他说，这项比赛目前还没能进入西欧。西欧的动物权利倡导人士抗议使用动物尸体。但比赛使用真动物还是假动物是“小事”，他说。“不一定非得是动物尸体。”事实上他说现在确实在考虑用假的动物尸体。
In the center of Astana, far from the clash of horses, one of the founding architects of the new city, Serik Rustambekov, 66, said he took no interest in the centuries-old traditions of kokpar.
在远离群马冲撞场面的阿斯塔纳市中心，66岁的谢里克·鲁斯坦贝克夫(Serik Rustambekov)说，自己对叼羊比赛(kokpar)这个有数百年历史的传统不感兴趣。他是这座新城的规划设计师之一。
But Mr. Rustambekov does harbor affection for the period before the new Astana, and maintains his architecture practice in the old part of the city, known as the Right Bank, which remains free of the expensive new buildings on the Left Bank.
但对于新阿斯塔纳诞生之前的那个时期，鲁斯坦贝克夫的确饱含深情。在被称作右岸(Right Bank)的阿斯塔纳旧城，他依然从事着自己的建筑工作。右岸依然没有左岸(Left Bank)那些昂贵的新建筑。
In 1954, Mr. Rustambekov was 7, living with his family in two rooms, when the first settlers from Russia and Ukraine were sent by Khrushchev to grow grain that, according to Moscow’s plans, would allow the Soviet Union’s food supply to catch up to the United States’. At the time, the population of the city was about 100,000, compared with about 700,000 today, he said.
1954年，当赫鲁晓夫把第一批拓荒者从俄罗斯和乌克兰送来这里种粮食时，7岁的鲁斯坦贝克夫和家人住在两间屋子里。按照莫斯科的计划，这么做会让苏联的粮食供应赶上美国。他说，那时这座城市约有10万人，而现在，这里有大约70万人。
“They brought wagons on sleds pulled by tractors, and then brought in people. Some were young people with families,” he said. “Everything was organized and brought from somewhere else. Sometimes they brought in food by plane.”
“他们带来了由拖拉机牵引的雪橇车，后来又带来了人手。其中一些是拖家带口的年轻人，”他说，“一切都是从其他地方组织起来，再被运到这里来的。有时，他们还会用飞机运来粮食。”
Low-rise apartment buildings were built out of concrete panels hauled by train from St. Petersburg, he said. Those apartments still exist, occupied by families who were already here when Mr. Nazarbayev sent civil servants from the old capital, Almaty, to live in new blocks of high-rises.
他说，火车从圣彼得堡拉来混凝土板材，人们用这些板材建起了低层公寓楼。那些公寓楼现在还在。在纳扎尔巴耶夫总统让旧首都阿拉木图的公务员搬到新建的高楼里时，居住在那些公寓楼里的家庭，就已经在这里了。
Many of the government workers were reluctant to leave the cosmopolitan atmosphere of Almaty, with its Viennese-style coffee shops, European-style sidewalks and shade trees.
许多政府工作人员不愿离开阿拉木图的国际化气息，那里有维也纳风格的咖啡馆、欧式的人行道和遮荫树。
So when Mr. Rustambekov worked on the original plans of Astana in the late 1990s, he designed a simple walkway, a cozy retreat that led to the banks of the Ishim River. “You could buy flowers, have coffee and ice cream, rent a bicycle,” he said. “In winter, you could rent skates or cross-country skis.”
因此，上世纪90年代末，当鲁斯坦贝克夫在制定阿斯塔纳最初的规划方案时，他设计了一条普普通通的步行街。那是一条舒适的幽静小道，通往伊希姆河(Ishim River)岸边。“可以买花、喝咖啡、吃冰激凌、租自行车，”他说，“冬天还可以租到溜冰鞋或越野滑雪板。”
Like everything else here, the walkway, despite its modest scale, had a grand name: the Millennium Gallery. Mr. Nazarbayev, who is said to approve details on every new structure in Astana, opened it. But after five years, Mr. Rustambekov said, the simplicity fell out of favor.
和这里其他所有东西一样，这条步行街虽然规模不大，但却有一个宏大的名字：千年走廊。据说，阿斯塔纳每一处新建筑的细节都经过纳扎尔巴耶夫的批准。他为这条步行街剪了彩。但鲁斯坦贝克夫说，五年后，这种简单已经不再受人青睐。
“The city administration destroyed it,” he said, “and built a big residential complex instead.”
“市政府拆毁了步行街，”他说，“在那里建起了一个大型住宅小区。”