The balance of world economic growth is tipping in another direction. Just as economists have begun lowering their forecasts for China and many other developing economies, the American economy is bouncing back. Japan appears to have turned a corner and is ending almost two decades of grinding deflation. Economic data out of Europe on Wednesday provided the first solid indication that many countries in the euro zone may be escaping the clutches of recession.
世界经济增长的天平正倾向另一边。就在经济学家们开始调低他们对中国和许多其他发展中国家经济的预期时，美国经济正在反弹。日本看似已扭转形势，正在结束持续了几乎20年的极端通货紧缩。周三，欧洲的经济数据第一次明确地显示出，欧元区的许多国家可能正在摆脱衰退的抑制。
The gross domestic product of the 17-nation euro zone grew at an annualized rate of about 1.2 percent in the second quarter. It is certainly not clear, based on only three months of data, that Europe’s recession has ended. But it is further evidence that the older engines of growth are revving into gear as the most recent sources of growth have been slowing down.
第二季度，17国欧元区国内生产总值(gross domestic product)的年化经济增长率约为1.2%。仅仅三个月的数据不足以说明欧洲的衰退已经结束。但这进一步证明了，随着世界新增长动力的发展放缓，传统的经济引擎正开始加速运转。
“The general proposition for much of the last generation has been that emerging markets grow faster. That’s what’s changed,” said Neal Soss, the chief economist at Credit Suisse.
“对于上一辈的很多人来说，新兴市场增长更快是个普遍认识。这已发生了改变，”瑞士信贷集团(Credit Suisse)首席经济师尼尔·索斯(Neal Soss)说。
“The acceleration such as it is happening is in the first-world economy rather than the emerging markets.”
“正在发生的这种经济提速是在第一世界国家，而不是新兴市场。”
The growth of the BRIC countries — Brazil, Russia, India and China — has raised living standards in those nations and in others in Southeast Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Those four nations had an even broader global impact by also providing new markets for American products while its citizens made the electronics and other products wanted by consumers in the United States and other developed economies.
金砖四国(BRIC)——巴西、俄罗斯、印度和中国——的发展提高了这些国家和其他东南亚、拉丁美洲、东欧国家的生活水准。过去，这四个国家的人民为美国和其他发达国家生产这些国家的消费者所需的电子产品等商品，此外它们还成了美国产品的新市场，从而进一步扩大它们的全球影响力。
So a decline in their growth rate should be worrisome to the United States. But Jim O’Neill, the Goldman Sachs economist who coined the term BRIC more than a decade ago, thinks one of the new beneficiaries of the shift in the global economy is most likely to be the United States. “I find myself thinking the U.S. is going to be one of the biggest winners,” said Mr. O’Neill.
所以，这些国家的增长放缓应该是令美国担心的。高盛(Goldman Sachs)经济学家吉姆·奥尼尔(Jim O'Neill)在十多年前首创“金砖四国”这个词，他认为在全球经济重心转移中，美国就是最有可能的新受益者之一。“我开始想，美国将是最大的赢家之一，”奥尼尔说。
It could gain from the Chinese government’s stated intention to shift from big government investment projects to a more consumer-driven economy. That could create demand for American products, while making commodities cheaper for American companies. Rising wages in China could also encourage manufacturing in the United States.
中国政府声称，将一改中国以大政府投资项目推动的经济发展，而更多以消费趋动经济，美国则能从这种转变中受益。这能产生对美国商品的需求，并同时让美国公司可以获得更廉价的大宗商品。中国劳动力价格的上涨也可以鼓励美国的制造业。
There were signs in recent trade statistics that this shift may already be under way. Exports from the United States to China grew in June while imports from China declined. The overall United States trade deficit dropped to its lowest level since 2009. China’s newfound restraint is at the fulcrum of the shift. Its government is trying to temper the economy, the largest among the developing nations. In doing so, it shoulders much of the blame for the slowdown elsewhere in Asia and in Latin America. The price of commodities like iron and copper, which previously buoyed the developing countries producing them, are now sinking as Chinese leaders are reining in the grand developments that needed metals.
最近的贸易统计数据显示，这种转变可能已经在发生。6月，美国向中国的出口增长，而自中国的进口则下降。美国总体贸易赤字降至2009年来的最低水平。中国最近一轮控制措施的推出引发了这种转变。中国政府正努力控制它这个发展中国家中规模最大的经济体。这么做的过程中，它被指责应对亚洲其他地方和拉丁美洲的经济放缓负责。生产铁和铜等大宗商品的发展中国家一直以来的增长受益于这些商品的价格上涨，而如今中国领导人正在抑制需要金属商品的大项目，令这些商品的价格出现下跌。
Brazil was growing largely because of commodities like iron ore and soybeans, which it was exporting to China. Two years ago, the Brazilian economy grew 7.6 percent. This year, however, economists predict the number will be around 2.3 percent.
过去，巴西经济增长主要得益于铁矿和大豆等大宗商品，主要向中国出口。两年前，巴西经济增长了7.6%。然而今年，经济学家们预计，这一数字将在2.3%左右。
“After years of strong growth, many Brazilians grew optimistic, but for many people who improved their lot, there is now a sense that their potential to rise further is limited,” said Samuel Pessoa, a researcher with the Brazilian Institute of Economics at the Fundação Getúlio Vargas, an elite university in Rio de Janeiro. “People are worried.”
里约热内卢顶尖大学瓦加斯商学院(Fundação Getúlio Vargas)巴西经济研究所(Brazilian Institute of Economics)的研究员萨莫埃尔·佩索阿(Samuel Pessoa)说，“经过多年的强劲增长，许多巴西人变得很乐观。但对许多已经改善了生活的人来说，如今有一种感觉，他们继续提高的潜力可能有限了。人们很担心。”
There is little prospect that the BRIC economies will ever return to the roaring growth that had come to seem normal.
金砖四国的经济要恢复人们已习以为常的飞速发展，希望非常渺茫。
“Many superficial observers just assumed that the BRIC countries would keep growing at the rate they did in the first decade, which was very unlikely,” said Mr. O’Neill, who recently retired from Goldman.
“许多浅薄的观察家都只是想当然地以为，金砖四国能保持第一个十年的那种增长速度，这种可能性是极小的，”最近从高盛退休的奥尼尔说。
Mr. O’Neill said that as China moved to a more consumer-based economy, “the winners and losers of the new China are probably going to be quite different than the winners and losers of the old China.”
奥尼尔表示，随着中国转向更加消费导向的经济发展，“'新'中国的赢家和输家，与'旧'中国的赢家和输家大概会非常不同。”
Even the most optimistic forecasts do not see the United States or Europe reaching the double-digit levels of growth that China and India have enjoyed over the last decade. Analysts are expecting that growth in the United States will rise from less than 2 percent this year to nearly 3 percent next year. Because the developed economies still account for nearly 60 percent of the global economy, even a slower pace of growth can provide more economic activity than faster growth in the developing world. There are fears that even the lackluster recovery in United States, Japan and Europe could be derailed if China’s problems grow significantly worse. Some economists in China are warning that Communist Party leaders may not be able to smoothly wean the country off years of government-fueled development.
即便是最乐观的预测，也不会认为美国和欧洲能够实现中国和印度在过去十年里呈现的两位数增长水平。分析师预计，美国经济的增长将从今年的不到2%，上升到明年的近3%。因为发达经济体仍占全球经济的近60%，所以即便是缓慢增长，它所能产生的经济活动也比发展中国家快速增长所带来的经济活动要多。有人担心，如果中国的问题严重恶化，那么在美国、日本和欧洲，即便是平淡无奇的经济复苏也会因此受阻。在中国，一些经济学家警告说，共产党领导人可能无法顺利地让这个多年来习惯政府支持发展的国家“断奶”。
For emerging economies, analysts say that the current cooling of growth is taking some of the countries to a more sustainable pace of expansion after years of acceleration that some considered unhealthy. In China, the 14.2 percent expansion seen before the peak in 2007 is not likely to be reached again, though the expected growth of 7.5 percent next year is still impressive.
分析师表示，对于新兴经济体来说，当前增长的放缓正在推动其中一部分国家进入更可持续的发展速度，而此前多年的加速增长被一些人认为是不健康的。在中国，2007年巅峰前14.2%的增长不太可能再现，尽管预期中明年7.5%的增长仍然是不低的。
“Even though it’s slowed down some, there is still a big opportunity,” said Barry P. Bosworth, a China expert at the Brookings Institution.
“即便速度放慢了一些，仍然有着巨大的机会，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)中国问题专家巴里·P·博斯沃思(Barry P. Bosworth)说。
Brazil and India have deeper problems. India has not been hurt by falling commodity prices, but the economy has been constrained by corruption and inefficiency. The value of the Indian rupee fell recently to a record low against the dollar.
巴西和印度有着更深层次的问题。印度尚未受到大宗商品价格下跌的影响，但其经济一直受制于腐败和效率低下。最近，印度卢比与美元的比价跌到了创纪录的低点。
In Brazil, many economists say the declining value of the country’s iron ore and soybeans has revealed that Brazil’s leaders failed to invest in infrastructure when the money was pouring in.
许多经济学家称，在巴西，铁矿石和大豆的贬值显示出，在资金大量涌入时，巴西领导人未能及时投资基础设施建设。
Silvésio de Oliveira, a soybean farmer in the midwestern state of Mato Grosso and a vice president of his state soy and corn farmers’ association, said years of insufficient investment in highways and ports finally caused a crisis this year.
西尔韦希奥·德·奥利韦拉(Silvésio de Oliveira)是马托格罗索州中西部种大豆的农场主，也是该州大豆和玉米农场主协会副主席，他说，多年来，对高速路和港口的投资不足最终导致了今年的危机。
Mr. Oliveira said an “infrastructure collapse” drove up freight costs and led several big foreign purchasers, tired of waiting for deliveries that never came, to cancel their orders.
奥利韦拉说，“基础设施不堪重负”推高了运输成本，并导致几家大型外国采购商取消了它们的订单，因为它们已经厌倦了无休止地等待货物交付。
Carlos Langoni, a former governor of Brazil’s central bank, said that infrastructure had become a significant constraint on growth. But he also noted that some of the country’s problems are similar to those in other developing economies.
巴西央行前行长卡洛斯·拉戈尼(Carlos Langoni)表示，基础设施已经成为增长的重大障碍。但他还提出，这个国家面临的一些问题与其他发展中国家类似。
“Expectations were too high,” said Mr. Langoni, who is now the director of the Global Economics Center at the Fundação Getúlio Vargas. “The new emerging countries are no different from the old ones: once you reach a certain income level, it becomes harder to grow.”
“期望太高了，”现任瓦加斯商学院全球经济中心(Global Economics Center)主任的拉戈尼说。“新兴国家与发达国家没什么不同：一旦达到了一定的收入水平，继续增长就变得很难。”