BEIRUT, Lebanon — After they routed the army in southern Yemen, fighters from Al Qaeda stormed into the city of Al Mukalla, seizing government buildings, releasing jihadists from prison and stealing millions of dollars from the central bank.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——基地组织(Al Qaeda)武装分子在也门南部击溃军队之后，冲进穆卡拉市夺取政府大楼，释放监狱中的圣战者，并从央行掠走上亿美元。
Then they surprised everyone. Instead of raising their flags and imposing Islamic law, they passed control to a civilian council and gave it a budget to pay salaries, import fuel and hire teams to clean up garbage. The fighters receded into the background, maintaining only a single police station to arbitrate disputes.
他们接下来的行动令所有人感到意外。他们没有升起自己的旗帜，强行实施伊斯兰教法，而是把控制权交给一个平民委员会，并给它提供了一笔预算来支付工资、进口燃料、雇人清理垃圾。武装分子则退居幕后，只保留了一个仲裁纠纷的警察局。
Al Qaeda’s takeover of Yemen’s fifth-largest city in April was the most direct indication yet that the group’s most potent regional affiliates are evolving after years of American drone strikes killing their leaders and changing to meet the challenge posed by the Islamic State’s competing and land-grabbing model of jihad.
作为基地组织最强大的地区性分支，也门基地组织正在发生演变，今年4月对也门第五大城市的占领，是迄今最直接表明这一点的事件，多年来该组织的领导层遭到美国的无人机袭击，还要面对来自伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的挑战，后者采取了一种竞争性的、攻城掠地的圣战形式。
While the image of Al Qaeda has long been one of shadowy operatives plotting international attacks from remote hide-outs, its branches in Yemen and Syria are now increasingly making common cause with local groups on the battlefield.
基地组织一直以来给人的印象是在僻远的藏身之地暗中行动，密谋开展跨国攻击，但它在也门和叙利亚的分支，目前却越来越多地在战区与本地组织合作共事。
In doing so, they are distancing themselves from one of Osama bin Laden’s central precepts: That fighters should focus on the “far enemy” in the West and not get bogged down in local insurgencies.
这样做是对奥萨玛·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)一条重要原则的偏离：拉登认为武装分子应着眼于西方的“远敌”，不要被本地的叛乱活动束缚手脚。
In recent weeks, the Qaeda affiliate in Yemen has allied with armed tribes to fight Iranian-backed Houthi rebels, putting that alliance on the same side of the country’s civil war as the United States and Saudi Arabia. In Syria, Qaeda-allied fighters are important members of a rebel coalition against President Bashar al-Assad that includes groups supported by the West.
最近几周，基地组织在也门的分支与部落武装结盟，对抗伊朗支持的胡塞(Houthi)反政府武装，所以在也门内战中，该联盟与美国和沙特站在了同一边。在叙利亚，基地组织是一个反政府武装联盟的重要成员，该联盟中也有西方支持的团体，他们一起反对总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)。
This strategy has clear benefits for a group that has long been near the top of the United States’s list of enemies by allowing it to build local support while providing some cover against the threat of foreign military action.
长期以来，基地组织都在美国的敌人清单上位居前列，这样的新策略当然会给它带来明显的好处：不但可以培养当地人的支持，而且也能获得一些掩护，免受外国军事行动的威胁。
But despite Al Qaeda’s increased involvement in local battles, American officials say the group remains committed to attacking the West, a goal that could be easier to plot from sanctuaries where it enjoys local support.
但美国官员说，尽管基地组织正在更多地参与本地战斗，该组织仍将致力于打击西方，当它拥有本地人的支持时，在庇护下谋划相关行动就更容易了。
Cooperating with others could also give Al Qaeda a long-term advantage in its competition with the extremists of the Islamic State, analysts said.
分析人士说，与其他人合作，也可以给基地组织提供一个长期优势，让它能更好地与伊斯兰国的极端主义者竞争。
Since its public break with Al Qaeda last year, the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has stolen the jihadist limelight by seizing cities in Syria and Iraq and declaring a caliphate in the territory it controls. This has won it the allegiances of other militant cells from Libya to Afghanistan.
也称ISIS或ISIL的伊斯兰国自去年与基地组织公开决裂之后，已经抢走了不少圣战风头。伊斯兰国在叙利亚和伊拉克占领了一些城市，并宣布在它控制的领土上成立了一个哈里发国。它已经赢得了从利比亚到阿富汗的其他一些激进组织的效忠。
The Islamic State has insisted that other groups join it or be considered enemies, a tactic that has alienated many in areas it controls. And its public celebration of violence, including the beheading of Western hostages, helped spur the formation of a United States-led military coalition that is bombing the group.
伊斯兰国坚定奉行一个策略：其他组织要么加入它，要么就是敌人。在它控制的地区，这个策略已经让很多人疏远了它。它毫不掩饰对暴力的崇尚，比如将西方人质斩首，这促进了一支以美国为首的联军的形成。
Al Qaeda’s branches in Syria and Yemen have taken a different route, building ties with local groups and refraining from the strict application of Shariah, the legal code of Islam, when faced with local resistance, according to residents of areas where Al Qaeda holds sway.
在叙利亚和也门的基地组织分支，则采取了不同的做法，据基地组织占领区的居民说，当遇到当地人的阻力时，他们与当地组织建立关系，并避免严格实施伊斯兰教法。
When Al Qaeda took over Al Mukalla in April, it seized government buildings and used trucks to cart off more than $120 million from the central bank, according to the bank’s director, Abdul-Qader Foulihan. That sum could not be independently verified.
据该银行主管阿卜杜勒-卡迪尔·弗利汗(Abdul-Qader Foulihan)说，基地组织今年4月占领穆卡拉时占领了政府大楼，并用卡车从央行运走了1.2亿美元。这个数字无法独立核实。
But it soon passed control to a civilian council, giving it a budget of more than $4 million to provide services, an arrangement that made sense to local officials seeking to serve their people during wartime.
但很快，他们就把控制权交给了一个平民委员会，提供了逾400万美元的预算来提供服务，对于想在战时为公众服务的地方官员来说，这个安排是行得通的。
“We are not Qaeda stooges,” said Abdul-Hakeem bin Mahfood, the council’s secretary general, in a telephone interview. “We formed the council to avoid the destruction of the city.”
“我们不是基地组织的走狗，”该委员会的秘书长阿卜杜勒-哈基姆·本·穆弗德(Abdul-Hakeem bin Mahfood)在接受电话采访时说。“我们组建了这个委员会，以免城市遭到破坏。”
While the council pays salaries and distributes fuel, Al Qaeda maintains a police station to settle disputes, residents said. It has so far made no effort to ban smoking or regulate how women dress.
委员会负责支付薪酬并分配燃料，但居民说基地组织保留了一个警察局来解决纠纷。迄今它尚未颁发禁烟令，也没有对女性着装提出要求。
Nor has it called itself Al Qaeda, instead using the name the Sons of Hadhramaut to emphasize its ties to the surrounding province.
它也没有自称是基地组织，而是使用了“哈德拉毛之子”(Sons of Hadhramaut)这个名字，强调自己与周边省份的联系。
One self-described Qaeda member said that the choice of name was deliberate, recalling that after the group seized territory in southern Yemen in 2011, the country’s military had mobilized to push it out with support from the United States.
一个自称基地组织成员的人说，这个名称是精心挑选的，他说2011年该组织在也门南部占领了一些土地后，政府军在美国的支持下将他们赶离。
“We were in control for a year and six months, we applied God’s law, we created a small state and the whole world saw it, but they did not leave us alone,” the man said in an interview with a Yemeni television station. “So we came here with the name the Sons of Hadhramaut, but the people here know who we are.”
“我们控制那个地方一年零六个月，实施了神的律法，我们创建了一个小国家，全世界都看到了，但他们并没有放过我们，”这个人在接受也门电视台采访时说。“所以我们来到这里，用了‘哈德拉毛之子’这个名字，但这里的人知道我们是谁。”
American officials have long considered the terrorist group’s Yemeni branch, known as Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the most dangerous to the West. It has sought to carry out attacks against the United States, and it retains sophisticated bomb-making expertise.
名为“阿拉伯半岛的基地组织”(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)的基地组织也门分支，长期以来一直被美国官员视为西方最危险的敌人。它试图对美国展开攻击，并拥有制造复杂炸弹的专业知识。
Now, Yemen’s civil war has given the group an opportunity to expand, analysts said.
分析人士称，现在也门内战给该组织提供了扩张的机会。
After Houthi rebels seized the Yemeni capital and forced the president into exile, Saudi Arabia began leading a bombing campaign aimed at pushing the Houthis back. With all that going on, no one has tried to dislodge Al Qaeda from Al Mukalla, although American drone strikes have killed top Qaeda leaders nearby.
胡塞反政府武装占领也门首都，迫使总统流亡之后，沙特阿拉伯开始领导一个轰炸行动，旨在赶走胡塞武装。在此期间，一直没有人试图从穆卡拉驱逐基地组织，尽管美国无人机袭击已经杀死了附近地区基地组织的高级首领。
Syria’s Qaeda affiliate, the Nusra Front, has made itself an essential component of the rebel forces seeking to oust Mr. Assad. It recently joined a rebel coalition called the Army of Conquest, putting itself in the same trenches as groups that receive support from the West.
努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)是叙利亚的基地组织分支，现在它已经成为试图推翻阿萨德的叛军中很重要的一支力量。它最近加入了叛军联盟“征服大军”(Army of Conquest)，与接受西方支持的一些组织站在同一条战线上。
Meanwhile, its fighters have distributed food and fixed plumbing systems. In the village of Binnish, it recently fielded a team in a friendly soccer match against another rebel group. Nusra’s team wore fatigues in line with Islamic modesty, and it lost against players wearing shorts.
与之同时，其武装人员也在分发食品，修理水管系统。在巴里希村，它最近派出一支球队，与另一个反叛组织进行了一场足球友谊赛。鉴于伊斯兰教对庄重仪表的要求，努斯拉阵线穿着制式军服上场，输给了穿短裤的对手。
“Nusra are not extremists,” said an activist who attended the game and gave only his first name, Najid. “They distribute leaflets at checkpoints and call people to the religion.”
“努斯拉不是极端分子，”一名观看了比赛的活动人士说。“他们在检查站散发传单，呼吁人们信奉这个宗教。”此人只透露了自己的名字纳吉德(Najid)。
Others worry that the group is merely laying the groundwork to eventually impose its will.
也有人担心，该组织只是在做铺垫，最终还是会把自己的意志强加于人。