MARINA GIOVANNELLI, in her quest for a distinctive wedding location, said she wanted to break from the “formulaic feel” of affairs in hotels and museums in the city of her childhood, San Diego.
玛丽娜·乔万内利(Marina Giovannelli)正在寻找一个独特的婚礼举办地。她说自己想要打破在童年生活的城市圣迭哥(San Diego)，酒店和博物馆办婚礼时那种“例行公事”的感觉。
“I was looking for an alternative to the prefabricated wedding experience that was unavoidable with a lot of the venues,” said Ms. Giovannelli, 32, who now lives in Boston and is a communications strategy consultant. “You have to use their caterer, stick to their timeline. I wanted it to be different.”
“我正在寻找另一种方式，来取代千篇一律的婚礼仪式，那就不可避免地要在很大程度上涉及到场地问题，”32岁的乔万内利说道。她如今住在波士顿(Boston)，从事传播战略顾问的工作。“你不得不用他们的宴席承办商，还得遵循他们的时间安排。可我想把婚礼办得与众不同。”
So she and her fiancé, Andrew Scherr, 30, a multimedia producer, opted for what may seem old-fashioned: a backyard wedding. But not an ordinary backyard at an ordinary house.
于是，她和未婚夫，30岁的多媒体策划人安德鲁·谢尔(Andrew Scherr)，选择了一种看起来已经过时的方式：后院婚礼。但，并不是在普通房子的普通后院。
After browsing through dozens of homes and estates in Southern California at estateweddingsandevents.com, Ms. Giovannelli visited and booked her dream location: the Emma Estate, a four-bedroom Tuscan-style ranch on three lushly landscaped acres in Rancho Santa Fe.
乔万内利在estateweddingsandevents.com网站上浏览了几十栋位于南加州的庄园和房屋后，参观并预定了一处她梦想的地点：艾玛庄园(Emma Estate)。这栋房子位于兰乔圣菲（Rancho Santa Fe，圣迭哥北部48公里处的一个小镇——译注），是一处带有四间卧室的托斯卡纳式牧场住宅，坐落在一片面积3英亩（约1.2万平方米）的繁茂草坪上。
“I could create what I wanted, instead of adapting what I wanted to a venue,” she said. “It felt elegant and comfortable and intimate. It’s like hosting people in your home.”
“我可以随心所欲地发挥创意，而不是根据场地条件来调整自己的想法，”她说。“那里给人的感觉很雅致、舒适，而且亲切，就像在自己家里招待客人一样。”
The 115 guests entered the house at the Sept. 29 wedding through the double-height foyer, peeking at the living room, dining room and den on their way out French doors to the ceremony by the rose garden. After cocktails on the patio by the pool, spa and outdoor fireplace, guests crossed a lawn lighted by lanterns to a tent for dinner and dancing.
在9月29日婚礼当天，115位宾客来到这处宅院。他们穿过双层高的大厅，路过客厅、餐厅和娱乐室，一直走到法式玻璃门外，进入玫瑰花园参加结婚典礼。在泳池边的平台上品尝过鸡尾酒、又享受过SPA和露天炉火的款待后，客人们走过被灯笼照亮的草坪，来到一座帐篷底下进餐和跳舞。
Jane Siann, the homeowner, said she listed her house on the Web site four years ago at a caterer’s suggestion when friends borrowed the property for their wedding. The fee starts at $3,500.
这栋屋子的主人简·西恩(Jane Siann)说，四年前，她的朋友找她借了房子举办婚礼，然后她听从一位宴席承办商的意见，把自己的房子挂到了网上，起租费是3500美金（约合人民币2.1万元）。
“All I have to do is make sure my garden is presentable and my house is pretty picked up,” Ms. Siann said, adding that the weddings have incurred “very little breakage.” She said she rolls up a few rugs, locks up valuables, boards her parrot, puts her five cats in the garage and checks into a hotel with her two dogs, leaving the party management to Jamie Ehrsam, who owns estateweddingsandevents.com. With a dozen weddings scheduled this year, the Emma Estate is fully booked.
“我所要做的，就是让花园看上去十分体面，然后选中这里的人就会络绎不绝，”西恩说，她还补充道，这些婚礼并没有带来什么破坏。她只需卷起几张毯子，锁上值钱的东西，寄养她的鹦鹉，再把她的五只猫请进车库，并和她的两只狗一起住进酒店，然后把组织派对的活儿都交给杰米·埃尔扎姆(Jamie Ehrsam)就行了。此人正是estateweddingsandevents.com网站的所有者。艾玛庄园今年将要举办12场婚礼，已经全部订满了。
Ms. Ehrsam said her company holds a refundable security deposit (50 percent of the rental fee) for all minor damage and incidentals. Additionally, homeowners and vendors must obtain special event and general liability insurance. Ms. Giovannelli said her $2,500 security deposit for the Emma Estate was fully refunded after her wedding.
埃尔扎姆说，她的公司会收取一笔可退还的押金（租金的50%），以防发生意外或者轻微损坏。另外，房主和婚礼供应商必须购买特殊活动及一般责任险。乔万内利说，她为艾玛庄园支付的2500美元（约合人民币1.5万元）安全保证金在婚礼后已经全部退还了。
Over the last decade the “fantasy of having a wedding at a mansion on the water in the Hamptons” became a “first choice” among brides, said Jill Gordon, a wedding planner in East Hampton, N.Y. But renting someone else’s yard for a day is not cheap.
近十年来，“在汉普顿(Hamptons)的临水大宅举办一场别开生面的婚礼”一直是新娘们的“第一选择”，纽约州东汉普顿的一名婚礼策划人吉尔·戈登(Jill Gordon)说。不过，租用一天别人家的后院可并不便宜。 
“People come into this thinking they will get some sort of Gatsby residence on the ocean,” she said. “Sometimes that’s unrealistic thinking,” she added, unless they have $75,000 to $100,000 to invest in the event, not counting the tent, table and chair rentals, caterer, band or flowers.
“来租房子的人都想找到像盖茨比的海滨豪宅那样的房子，”她说。“有时候，这种想法并不实际，”她又补充道，除非他们在此项上的预算有7.5到10万美元（约合人民币46万至61万元），这还不算帐篷、桌椅的租金，以及宴席、乐队、和鲜花的费用。
Nancy Grigor, a location scout for events and the movies “The Nanny Diaries” and “Something Borrowed,” said she gets 15 to 20 calls a week from brides looking for wedding sites in the Hamptons. She said it was “just as easy” to find the perfect private residence for a wedding as it was to arrange a movie or a magazine shoot for Calvin Klein.
南希·格里戈尔(Nancy Grigor)，是一名庆典活动场地策划人，也曾为电影《保姆日记》(The Nanny Diaries)和《大婚告急》(Something Borrowed)的拍摄现场选址。她说自己每周都能接到15到20通来自新娘们的电话，她们都想在汉普顿寻找举办婚礼的地方。她说，为一场婚礼寻找一处完美的私人住所，就像为Calvin Klein的一部广告片或杂志照片寻找拍摄场地“一样简单”。
“The girls want to get married in the Hamptons and on the beach,” she said. “There are a lot of great properties out here to do weddings.”
“女孩儿们都想在汉普顿和海边沙滩上结婚，”她说，“那儿有很多不错的房产可以用来举办婚礼。”
Among her clients were Paul Rodriguez, 30, and Judith Carr, 35, of Manhattan, who after a tour last year, made a list of their top 10 wedding properties. For the week before their June 9 wedding, they paid $25,000 for a nine-bedroom Victorian in Southampton, N.Y., so that their siblings could stay there.
她的客户中有一对来自曼哈顿的新婚夫妇——30岁的保罗·罗德里格斯(Paul Rodriguez)和35岁的朱迪思·卡尔(Judith Carr)，在去年到此地考察过后，他们就把自己最理想的十处承办婚礼的房屋列了一张清单。在9月份婚礼的前一周，他们支付了2.5万美元（约合人民币15万元），租下纽约州一栋有9间卧室的维多利亚式大宅，好让他们的兄弟姐妹一起在那里小住。
“We wanted to feel like we were bringing Paul’s family from Texas and my family from England into our own home,” Ms. Carr said. The family members could also get to know one another as they saved on hotel expenses.
“我们希望，这样感觉就像是把保罗的家人从德克萨斯州、把我的家人从英格兰都请到了我们自己的家中，”卡尔说。他们的家人不但省下了住酒店的费用，还加深了对彼此的了解。
The ceremony was held in a walled “secret garden,” followed by poolside cocktails and a family-style buffet reception and pig roast for 100 guests under a tent on the front lawn.
这场婚礼在一个筑有围墙的“秘密花园”中举行，仪式过后就是游泳池边的鸡尾酒会，以及家庭风格的自助餐宴会。在前院草坪的帐篷底下，还有一只足够100位客人享用的烤猪。
“It was very relaxed and felt more like a garden party than a stuffy wedding,” Ms. Carr said, down to the lime tart with berries instead of a wedding cake. Afterward, the couple and their guests spent time by the pool.
“感觉非常轻松，就像是个花园派对，而不是繁琐冗长的婚礼，”卡尔边说边切开一块带有浆果的酸橙挞，而不是婚礼蛋糕。接下来，这对夫妇和宾客们会在游泳池边一起共度美好时光。
“It was everything that we both dreamed of, very intimate,” she said, rather than the “conveyor belt” feel of a vineyard and other “cookie cutter” venues.
“这就是我们俩梦想的一切，感觉非常亲切，”她说，没有在葡萄园里举办婚礼那种“流水线”的感觉，或者在其它场合“千篇一律”的感觉。
Sometimes, a house has special significance. Troy Gallas, 29, and Erin Schumacher Gallas, 30, who met as architecture students at the University of Minnesota, paid $2,165 to rent Still Bend, a privately owned residence designed by the architect Frank Lloyd Wright in Two Rivers, Wis., for their September 2011 wedding weekend.
有时候，房屋的选择还有着特别的意义。29岁的特洛伊·盖拉斯(Troy Gallas)和30岁的艾琳·舒马赫·盖拉斯(Erin Schumacher Gallas)还是明尼苏达大学建筑系的学生时就相识了。他们支付2165美元（约合人民币1.3万元），租下了威斯康星州双河城(Two Rivers, Wis.)的一栋由建筑师弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)设计的私人住宅——Still Bend，并于2011年9月的一个周末，在那里举办了婚礼。
“The unique atmosphere of his structure lent itself perfectly to what we wanted for our wedding,” Mr. Gallas said. After the ceremony and dinner outside, their 50 guests danced in the living room. “For an event that special we wanted to make sure the venue was just as special.”
“他的建筑设计里有一种独特的氛围，完美契合了我们在婚礼中所要表现的东西，”盖拉斯说道。在屋外完成结婚仪式并进餐之后，他们邀请的50位宾客来到客厅中跳舞。“我们希望，对于这样一场特别的活动，其举办场地也必须同样是特别的。”
Closer to New York City, another architecturally significant house, the Philip Johnson Glass House in New Canaan, Conn., will be available for weddings beginning in the spring, according to Christa Carr, the director of communications. Guests will be limited to 35, and packages running from $10,000 to $50,000 will include a tour of the house site with lunch or brunch on the lawn or in the painting gallery. The costs of food, beverages, tent, ceremony and rentals are not included in the price, and red wine is not allowed.
在纽约市附近，另外一栋有重要建筑意义的屋子——位于康涅狄格州新卡纳镇(New Canaan, Conn.)的菲利普·约翰逊玻璃房(Philip Johnson Glass House)，将于春开始接受婚礼预定，此场地的传媒总监克丽斯塔·卡尔(Christa Carr)透露。来宾人数将会被限制在35位；总费用在1万到5万美元间的服务套餐中，将包括一次在房屋所在地的游览活动，包含一顿在草坪或画廊享用的午餐或早午餐。而食物、酒水、帐篷、婚礼仪式及场地租金，都不包含在此价格内；而且，还不允许自带红酒。
In Burleson, Tex., it’s Patricia Sullivan’s Lone Star Mansion, an antebellum-style home on 18 acres in a residential neighborhood. She converted the garage into a 2,500-square foot “crystal cathedral,” as she calls it, with a caterer’s kitchen attached.
在德克萨斯州的伯利森市(Burleson, Tex.)，坐落着帕特里夏·沙利文(Patricia Sullivan)的“孤独之星宅邸”(Lone Star Mansion)。这是一座战前风格（美国南北战争——译注）的房子，占地有18英亩（约合7.28万平方米），位于一处居住区中。她把车库改成了一间2500平房英尺（约232平方米）的“水晶教堂”——她是这么叫的，还附带一个承办宴席的厨房。
But what persuaded Alex Ailara, 22, and her groom, Jamie Whitman, 23, to wed there on Oct. 13 was a man cave in the basement that the groom and his entourage could use while getting ready. It had a 73-inch flat-screen television, a pool table, poker room and dry sauna.
然而，打动22岁的亚历克斯·艾拉拉(Alex Ailara)与她的新郎，23岁的杰米·惠特曼(Jamie Whitman)于2013年10月在这里举办婚礼的，其实是地下室里的一间男宾娱乐室，新郎和伴郎们可以在婚礼开始之前在那里做准备。娱乐室里有一台73英寸的平板电视、一张台球桌、一个扑克室和一间干蒸桑拿房。
“It felt like the day was special not only for the bride but for the groom as well,” the bride said.
“这会让人觉得，婚礼那一天不仅对新娘来说很特别，对新郎也是一样。”那位新娘说。
In Malibu, Calif., Richard and Charmaine Mark rent out their oceanfront property, Cypress Sea Cove, for eight weddings a year. Though guests are not allowed inside their ship-shaped, storybook-style white Victorian, the bride and groom have the use of the Marks’ two acres of palm- and cypress-studded gardens and beachfront, complete with a tiki bar (built for the filming of an episode of the television show “House”). Nearby, sea lions sun on rocks and dolphins frolic in the Pacific waves.
在加利福尼亚州的马里布市(Malibu)，理查德·马克(Richard Mark)与查梅因·马克(Charmaine Mark)夫妇把他俩在海边的房产“丝柏海湾”(Cypress Sea Cove)租了出去，将于一年之中举办八场婚礼。虽然宾客们被谢绝进入他们那栋故事书风格的白色船形维多利亚大宅，新娘和新郎还是可以使用马克夫妇那两英亩（约8093.72平方米）大的海滨区域。那里有种着棕榈树和丝柏树的花园，还有个蒂奇酒吧(tiki bar)（为拍摄电视剧《豪斯医生》[House]而建）。不远处，海狮在石头上晒太阳，还有海豚在平静的海浪中嬉戏。 
Mr. Mark takes part in the couple’s magical day, as he sometimes opens a window to enjoy the music and get a “bird’s-eye view of two families coming together.”
在那对新人的美妙之日，马克先生也以某种方式参与了婚礼。因为他有时会打开一扇窗户享受音乐，顺便“眺望一下双方家庭走到一起。”
“It’s like a canvas and then they paint it,” he added. “Every one of these events is an exciting thing to be part of. It is a blessing.”
“（窗外）就像一块空白的画布，而后被他们涂上了色彩，”他补充道，“每一场这样的婚礼都是件令人兴奋的事。能参与其中是一种福气。”