JIANGMEN, China — It has been decades since a train has passed through the old Beijie train station in southern China. On a recent winter morning, the only sign of activity came from a group of architecture students busy with their sketch pads.
江门——中国南方的北街火车站，在过去几十年里都没有火车经过。不久前一个冬日的早晨，这里唯一的活动是一群建筑专业的学生在忙着画素描。
The station is a two-story building of brick and concrete with stained-glass windows. A ticket counter with metal bars still stands in the main hallway. On the wall behind the counter is a copy of a train schedule from the pre-Communist era: one silver dollar for a first-class ticket from this station to the town of San He; 70 cents for a second-class ticket.
这座火车站是一栋两层的建筑，砖混结构，窗户上装着彩色的玻璃。大厅里的售票处围着金属栏杆，背后的墙上贴着一份列车时刻表。从这座车站到三合镇，头等座要花一块银元，二等座七角。
The station is the most prominent survivor of the Xinning Railway, an ambitious attempt by a Chinese businessman who lived overseas in the early 20th century to help modernize his home county, Taishan, better known as Toishan, a rice-growing region in Guangdong Province that was the point of origin for many Chinese emigrants. The project was the precursor of today’s vaunted high-speed rails, but it was a private railway, one of China’s first, and built solely through the efforts of one man clinging to a vision of strengthening China.
这座车站是新宁铁路最令人瞩目的遗存。这条铁路是一位旅居海外的华商在20世纪初期，帮助自己的家乡台山追求现代化的宏大尝试。广东省的台山是水稻种植区，许多华人移民都来自那里。今天的中国有了备受追捧的高速铁路，而新宁铁路堪称先驱，它还是中国最早的私营铁路之一。这条铁路的建成，完全仰赖一个坚持着强国梦想的个人所付出的不懈努力。
That man, Chen Yixi, returned to Taishan after spending 40 years in the United States amassing a fortune, mostly as a labor contractor in Seattle for railroad projects. The money he raised for the Xinning Railway came primarily from Chinese-Americans.
他就是陈宜禧。在旅居美国的40年里，陈宜禧主要通过在西雅图承接铁路项目的劳务，累积了大量财富。他为新宁铁路筹措的资金主要来自美国华人。
“I find it’s amazing that peasants from Taishan went to the U.S. and Canada to make a living and built railways,” said Liu Jin, 46, a professor at Wuyi University in Jiangmen and a director of the Overseas Chinese Research Center, as he sat in his office showing foreign visitors digital scans of the railway’s stock certificates. “That’s how they learned the technology and earned money, and then they came home and used that technology and money to contribute to the modernization of their home region.”
江门五邑大学广东侨乡文化研究中心的刘进教授说道，“台山的农民前往美国和加拿大谋生并修建铁路，我感觉这段故事很引人入胜。”今年46岁的刘进坐在他的办公室里，一边向外国访客展示这条铁路股票的扫描图片，一边说，“他们就这样学到了技术，也赚到了钱，之后又回到家乡，用这些钱和技术，为家乡的现代化做贡献。”
Scholars like Mr. Liu have documented the rise and fall of the Xinning Railway to better understand the modernizing forces in China then and the role of overseas Chinese.
像刘进这样的学者记叙了新宁铁路的兴衰，从而更好地理解当时推动中国现代化的力量，以及海外华人所起的作用。
In the Taishan region, Mr. Chen and his project — his China dream — are memorialized. A statue of him stands in a pedestrian mall in Taishan City, the county seat. At Doushan, the southern terminus of the railway, there is another statue and also a black locomotive in the main plaza. One afternoon, a half-dozen members of a family posed for photographs there.
在台山地区，人们对陈宜禧和他的工程，或者说他的中国梦进行了纪念。在台山市的一座步行广场，矗立着一座陈宜禧的塑像。新宁铁路南端的终点站斗山树立着另一尊塑像，主广场上还停放着一台黑色的火车头。一天下午，一个家庭的五六位成员正摆好姿势在那里照相。
“I don’t really know him that much,” said Wing Chan, 31, a mechanic from San Francisco who was visiting relatives in the area. “He took out all his income to build the train.”
来自旧金山的31岁的机械师陈荣（Wing Chan，音译）正在这个地区探亲。他说，“我对他并没有什么了解。他把自己所有的收入都拿出来造了火车。”
In Mr. Chen’s home village, a 10-minute drive from Doushan, a sign by the European-style townhouses he once owned praises his work. The Museum of Overseas Chinese in Jiangmen has a large exhibition on the railroad.
陈宜禧祖籍的村子距离斗山有10分钟车程。在那里，曾属于他的一栋欧式大宅旁竖立着一座标牌，颂扬他的成就。位于江门的华侨华人博物馆也做了大规模的展览，介绍新宁铁路。
“It was arguably Chen Yixi who came closest to attaining the heroic stature attributed to huaqiao,” or overseas Chinese, in magazines known as qiaokan, wrote Madeline Y. Hsu, a professor at the University of Texas, Austin, in “Dreaming of Gold, Dreaming of Home,” a book on transnationalism and the southern Chinese that has a chapter on Mr. Chen.
德州大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas, Austin)的教授徐元音(Madeline Y. Hsu)在《梦金山、梦家乡》(Dreaming of Gold, Dreaming of Home)一书中写道，有理由说，在被称作“侨刊”的杂志的评价中，“距离取得华侨英雄的地位最为接近的人物，就是陈宜禧。”徐元音的书中探讨了跨国迁徙和华南的中国人，其中有一章专门讲述陈宜禧。
“This wealthy Seattle merchant, labor contractor, and railroad engineer conceived and partially fulfilled a plan to rescue Taishan from its agricultural stagnation and transform it into a thriving commercial metropole,” she wrote.
她写道，“这位富有的西雅图商人、劳务承包商兼铁路工程师构想了一个计划，要把台山从务农的停滞状态中解救出来，将它转变为繁荣的商业重镇，并且他还在一定程度上实现了这一构想。”
Through family connections, Mr. Chen first moved to the United States around 1862, as a teenager. He learned English and took engineering classes, and eventually he founded a company supplying labor for railroad projects. He became a pillar of the business community in Seattle.
陈宜禧最初通过亲戚的关系移居美国是在1862年左右，当时他还是个十几岁的少年。他学会了英语，也学了工程课程，最终成立了一家公司，为铁路建设项目提供劳工，成为了西雅图商界的中坚。
In 1895, foreign powers seized control of China’s railroads through a treaty that resulted from China’s defeat in a war with Japan. It was a significant move in what many Chinese feared was a carving up of China by other nations. Some overseas Chinese returned home to try to help build up China, and one route they adopted was to start private railways.
1895年，中国在战争中败给日本后签订了一份条约，使列强取得了中国铁路的控制权。许多国人都在担心，中国会被外国瓜分，而这一事件就是其中重要的一步。一些华侨回到家乡，努力帮助中国的建设，其中一条途径就是兴建私营的铁路线。
Mr. Chen took a stab at such a project. He was not the first; a previous attempt by another overseas Chinese businessman to build a private railway had failed.
陈宜禧就做出了这样的尝试。不过他并不是第一人，在他之前，另一名旅居海外的华商也尝试过建设私营铁路线，但以失败告终。
Mr. Chen’s goal was to build a railway first from Taishan City north to Jiangmen, where passengers could take boats to and from Hong Kong. Eventually the railway would extend south to the coast of the Taishan region and be linked to a vast transportation network stretching between Southeast Asia and Europe.
陈宜禧的目标是先建设一条从台山城向北通向江门的铁路，然后乘客可以在那里乘船往来香港。最终，铁路线向南延伸到了台山的沿海区域，进而接入了延伸到东南亚和欧洲的广阔的交通网络。
Mr. Chen and another Taishanese man embarked on a campaign overseas that raised $2.7 million for the project’s first stage, Ms. Hsu wrote. Two-thirds came from Chinese-Americans.
徐元音写道，陈宜禧和另一个台山人在海外努力集资，筹措了270万美元资金用于第一阶段的工程，其中有三分之二来自美国华人。
Construction began around 1906. Officials raised objections, as did villagers. That forced the path of the railway to take many twists. A big geographic hurdle was the Niuwan River. Mr. Chen had to buy a boat from Hong Kong that could ferry train cars across the water.
工程建设始于1906年左右。由于官员和村民们都提出了反对，所以铁路的线路也被迫多次弯折。牛湾河也是一个不小的地理障碍，陈宜禧只得从香港买来一艘渡船，运送列车车厢过河。
The first stretch was completed in 1909. It ran from Doushan in the south to Gongyi, on the northern border of Taishan. The second section, from Gongyi to Jiangmen, was completed two years later. In 1917, Mr. Chen added a trunk line connecting Taishan City to Baisha. The lines together ran 137 kilometers, about 85 miles.
第一期工程在1909年竣工，从南面的斗山延伸到紧邻台山北部边界的公益。从公益到江门的第二期工程于两年后竣工。1917年，陈宜禧又新建了一条主干线，将台山城与白沙相连。这些铁路线总长137公里，约合85英里。
The railroad company suffered financial problems, from high operating costs to constant extortion by officials. And there was not much of a market for the transportation of manufactured goods across Taishan because it was not an industrialized area.
这家铁路公司遭遇了种种财务上的问题，如运营成本高企、官员不断勒索。而且，由于该地区并未工业化，在台山地区运输制造业产品的市场也并没有多大。
Sun Yat-sen, saw potential in Mr. Chen’s plans and permitted him to build a port at Tonggu, which would be one terminus in the transportation network. But with corruption rampant, none of it came to pass. Mr. Chen died in 1928, his dreams unfulfilled.
孙中山认为，陈宜禧的计划有潜力，允许他在铜鼓开辟商埠，那里也计划成为交通网络的一座终点站。但是由于腐败横行，这项计划未能实现。陈宜禧在1928年辞世，壮志未酬。
“In any normal society, this railway would have become a lucrative business center,” Mr. Liu said. “But Chen’s dream was crushed by the chaos of China.”
“在任何一个正常的社会，这条铁路都会成为利润丰厚的商业中心，”刘进说，“但当时的中国局面混乱，粉碎了陈宜禧的梦想。”
After the Japanese conquered Guangzhou in October 1938, Chinese officials ordered the railroad dismantled so the Japanese would not be able to use it. One elderly local woman remembered being paid several sacks of rice to help take it apart.
日本在1938年10月攻陷广州后，民国官员下令拆毁铁路，以防日军使用。当地一名老妇人还记得，自己帮助拆毁，得到了几袋大米的酬劳。
The glory survives in memories, which are gradually disappearing. Chen Huajia, 84, recalled riding the railroad as a boy with his father, who took the train from San He to Taishan City to get supplies for his restaurant. Mr. Chen also remembered other uses for the railroad.
光辉的成就还留在人们的记忆中，只是这记忆正在逐渐消失。今年84岁的陈华嘉（音译）回忆道，他的父亲当年乘火车从三合到台山城为餐馆进货时，年幼的他也曾随着父亲走过这条线路。陈华嘉还记得这条铁路的其他用途。
“When the Japanese started bombing from airplanes, there was one time when the explosions were close and we ran and hid beneath the railroad bridge near Taishan City,” he said. “That was frightening because the explosions were very loud. We could hear the bombs as well as the machine-gun fire.”
“日本人开始用飞机轰炸时，有一次爆炸的地方很近，我们落荒而逃，躲到了台山附近的铁路桥下面，”他说。“当时很吓人，爆炸声很响。我们能听到炸弹声，也能听到机枪响。”