HONG KONG — The government of Singapore announced measures on Monday that will compel companies to give priority to local residents in the job recruitment process, a move that could create more challenges for multinational firms doing business in the Southeast Asian city-state.
香港——新加坡政府周一宣布新政策，要求公司在招聘员工时优先考虑当地居民，此举可能会给在这个东南亚城邦国家运营的跨国公司带来更多挑战。
The new measures will require companies operating in Singapore to advertise vacancies to local residents for two weeks before they can apply to fill positions with overseas workers. The recruitment notices must be posted to a central job bank to be administered by a government employment agency, according to a statement released by the Ministry of Manpower.
新政策要求，在新加坡运营的公司需要首先把岗位招聘广告公布给当地居民，两周之后才能申请雇佣外国员工。根据人力部(Ministry of Manpower)发布的声明，招聘广告必须公布在一个提供就业机会的中央网站上，以便政府的就业机构管理。
“Providing better jobs and diverse opportunities to meet Singaporeans’ aspirations are the ultimate objectives of economic growth,” Tan Chuan-Jin, the acting minister for manpower, said in the statement. “What we are doing is to put in place measures to nudge employers to give Singaporeans — especially our young graduates and professionals, managers and executives — a fair chance at both job and development opportunities.”
人力部代部长陈川仁在声明中说，“为满足新加坡人的愿望而提供更好的工作和更多样化的机会是经济增长的最终目标。我们的做法是用政策迫使雇主给新加坡人以公平的就业和发展机会，特别是年轻的毕业生和专业人士、经理以及执行官。”
Singapore has already taken steps this year to make it more difficult to import workers, including increases in levies on overseas hires and reduction of the permitted ratio of foreign-to-local employees at companies in the services, manufacturing, construction and maritime sectors.
新加坡今年已经采取了一些措施让从国外引进工人变得更加困难，其中包括提高了雇佣外国人的课税，以及在服务业、制造业、建筑业和海洋业中降低了允许雇佣外的国员工与本国员工的比例。
Singapore is a major hub for regional and multinational companies operating in Southeast Asia, and such measures have raised concerns in the foreign business community about the ability to meet staffing needs, given Singapore’s aging population. In January, nine foreign business groups, including the American, Australian, British, Canadian and European chambers of commerce, sent a letter expressing these concerns to local labor officials.
新加坡是在东南亚运作的区域性和跨国公司的一个主要中心，这些规定在外国工商界引起关注，由于新加坡人口的老龄化，公司担心不能满足其雇员需求。1月份，包括美国、澳大利亚、英国、加拿大和欧洲商会在内在9个外国工商团体给当地人力官员写信表达了这些担忧。
“Singapore’s openness to foreign labor has enabled it to attract, retain and absorb the best of foreign talent, providing it with a clear competitive advantage over its neighbors,” the business groups wrote. “While Singapore continues to attract significant foreign investment, we nevertheless fear current implementation of revised labor policy risks negatively impacting Singapore’s economy and reputation as an open economy.”
这些工商团体在信中写道，“新加坡对外国劳动力的开放性使其能吸引、留住并吸收最好的外国人才，为新加坡在与邻国的竞争中提供了明显优势。虽然新加坡仍在吸引着巨大的外国投资，但我们担心目前实施修订后的劳动力政策，会给新加坡的经济和作为一个开放经济体的名声带来负面影响。”
While countries around the world impose restrictions on foreign workers, few of them depend on imported labor as much as Singapore. With a citizenry of 3.3 million and a fertility rate that falls far short of replenishing the population, tiny Singapore relies heavily on overseas workers for construction laborers, service staff and financial and legal professionals.
虽然世界上很多国家都限制雇用外国工人，但很少有国家像新加坡那样依赖于引进的劳动力。新加坡只有330万公民，而且其生育率远低于人口替换所需的水平，这个小国严重依赖外国工人为其提供建筑劳动力、服务业职员、以及金融和法律行业的专业人员。
That dependence is increasing as the economy expands. The number of foreign workers in Singapore has soared in recent years to 1.2 million at the end of 2012, accounting for 37 percent of the labor force. At the same time, Singapore’s unemployment rate has remained among the lowest in Asia, at 2.1 percent as of June.
这种依赖随着经济的扩张而加重。近几年新加坡的外国工人数量激增，2012年底这一数字达到120万人，占全部劳动力的37%。同时，新加坡的失业率也是亚洲最低的，6月份的失业率为2.1%。
Still, opposition to imported labor has risen among locals who see themselves as missing out on opportunities, and that has become a political liability for the government. The People’s Action Party, which has governed Singapore since it became an independent nation in 1965, generated its weakest level of support ever during elections two years ago.
然而，反对引进工人的情绪，在那些认为自己失去机会的当地人中有所上升，这已经成为政府的一个政治负担。从1965年新加坡独立以来就一直执政的人民行动党(People’s Action Party)，在两年前的选举中得到的支持率是有史以来最低的。
Also Monday, the government raised by 10 percent the minimum salary required before it will issue an employment pass for a foreign worker. The new amount is 3,300 Singapore dollars, or $2,600, per month, effective in January.
政府在周一还将给外国工人发放就业许可所需的最低工资提高了10%。新的最低工资为每月3300新加坡元(相当于1.6万元人民币)，从明年1月份开始实施。
Companies with 25 or fewer employees and jobs that pay a fixed monthly salary of 12,000 dollars or more will be exempt from the new recruitment advertising requirements, the government said. The policy takes effect next August.
政府称，雇员在25人或以下的公司，以及固定月工资在1.2万新加坡元或以上的工作岗位将不受新招聘广告要求的约束。新政策将从明年8月份开始实施。
Mr. Tan, of the labor ministry, sought to head off criticism of the new measures. “The framework is not about ‘Hire Singaporeans First,’ or ‘Hire Singaporeans Only,’ ” he said in his statement. “What the government is doing is to help them get a fair opportunity. Singaporeans must still prove themselves able and competitive to take on the higher jobs that they aspire to.”
人力部代部长陈川仁就人们对新政策的批评做了准备，他在声明中说，“这个政策并不是要求‘优先雇用新加坡人’，或‘只雇用新加坡人’。政府所做的是帮助他们得到公平的机会。新加坡人仍需要证明他们有能力和竞争力去得到自己想要的更好工作。”