WASHINGTON — The slowdown in emerging economies and the U.S. central bank’s decision to scale back monetary stimulus have many investors worried about the state of the world’s economy. Some blame the U.S. Federal Reserve for trimming its easy money policies too quickly, while others insist some emerging economies were unprepared for it. Economists say the reasons for market turmoil are as varied as the countries involved.
华盛顿 — 新兴经济体增长放缓，美国央行决定缩减货币刺激措施，这使得许多投资者对世界经济状况感到忧虑。有人批评美联储缩减宽松货币政策的速度太快，还有人坚持说新兴经济体对此没有准备。但经济学家指出，市场动荡的原因多种多样，就像参与市场活动的国家各不相同。
When the U.S. central bank started pumping billions of dollars into the economy to stimulate growth, investors took advantage - investing money in fast growing economies and countries where interest rates were higher.  But amid signs of a strengthening U.S. economy, the Federal Reserve began scaling back monetary stimulus.
当美联储着手注入成百亿美元刺激经济增长时，投资者不失时机地在快速增长的经济体和利率较高的国家大举投资。但是，在美国经济出现强势增长迹象之际，美联储缩小了货币刺激规模。
As a result, in the World Bank's global economic report, economist Andrew Burns said investments are flowing back into advanced economies as interest rates begin to rise.
于是，正如经济学家伯恩斯在世界银行全球经济报告中所说的那样，投资转而回流到利率开始回升的发达经济体中。
“The analysis that we do in the report suggests that capital flows to developing countries, in a smooth transition to higher interest rates in the United States, are likely to decline as a percentage of developing countries GDP,” said Burns.
伯恩斯说：“我们在报告中的分析是，随着美国的利率平稳上升，流入发展中国家的资本在这些国家GDP中所占比例可能将逐渐下降。”
Slowing economies
The exodus of capital comes at a bad time; growth in developing countries from Brazil to India has slowed.
资本外流的时机很糟糕，因为从巴西到印度，发展中国家的经济增长已经放缓。
When its currency declined sharply last month, Turkey’s central bank tried to discourage capital flight - doubling interest rates to attract investors.
上个月，土耳其新里拉兑换率急剧下跌。土耳其央行试图通过利率加倍来吸引投资人，阻止资金外逃。
That briefly raised the value of the Turkish lira, though economist Ozlem Demirci says the cost is too high.
经济学家德米奇说，此举使新里拉币值短暂上升，但代价太高。
“Of course we will see some negative impact of this rate hike decision over growth, especially GDP growth, because the credit rate will probably increase, borrowing costs will increase,” said Demirci.
“我们当然会看到提高利率的决定对经济增长、特别是对GDP增长所带来的负面影响，因为信贷利率可能会提高，借贷成本会提高。”
Meanwhile, Argentina’s central bank chose not to intervene - resulting in the Argentine peso’s biggest depreciation in more than a decade. The contagion spread quickly to other emerging markets, leading some economists to call it the "biggest sell off in emerging market currencies since 2009."
与此同时，阿根廷央行选择不进行干预，结果导致10多年来阿根廷比索最大幅度的贬值。这种情形很快蔓延到其他新兴市场国家，一些经济学家称之为“2009年以来新兴市场国家货币的最大抛售”。
Multiple causes, ongoing issue
William Cline at the Peterson Institute said you can’t blame all of it on the Fed's taper.
彼得森国际经济研究所经济学家克莱因说，不能把这全都归咎于美联储的减购决定。
"In Argentina, they had domestic inflation that was running very high and was disguised by the official figures in Turkey, the political scandals and the very large trade deficit," he said.
“阿根廷国内通货膨胀率非常高，但被官方数字掩盖了。土耳其的情况是政治丑闻和巨大的贸易赤字。”
Given country-specific issues, Cline said the recent market turmoil may be a necessary correction. One example he cites is Brazil.
克莱因说，考虑到各国的具体问题，最近的市场动荡可能是一种必要的修正。他以巴西为例指出：
"After all, it was fairly recently that the Brazilians were complaining about a currency war, and they were saying that this wall of money coming at them because our interest rates were so low were making them uncompetitive. Now I think that their currency is more appropriately valued," said Cline.
“毕竟，巴西人最近还在对一场货币战发出抱怨，说因为巴西的利率太低，导致大量资金流入，使得巴西不再有竞争力。我认为巴西的币值现在比较合适了。”
On the other hand, China, the world's fastest growing major economy has been largely unscathed, perhaps owing to its large dollar reserves.
在另一方面，世界增长最快的主要经济体中国基本上没有受到影响，这或许是因为中国有大量的美元储备。
Given the interconnected nature of commerce, though, economists say the turmoil in emerging markets isn't over yet.
但经济学家说，商业活动相互关联的性质决定了新兴市场的动荡还没有结束。