At universities in land-strapped Singapore, students may one day borrow books from an underground library, attend lectures in a subterranean auditorium or even swim in an Olympic-size swimming pool below sea level.
在土地资源紧缺的新加坡大学里，可能有一天，学生们借书要去地下图书馆，听讲座要到地下礼堂，甚至连游泳都得在海平面以下的奥运会规格游泳池里。
Two of the city’s public universities, Nanyang Technological University and the National University of Singapore, have completed preliminary studies on developing the space beneath their campuses for lecture theaters, laboratories, sports facilities and performance halls. A third school, Singapore Management University, has already constructed a basement-level space linking its main above-ground buildings.
新加坡两所公立大学——南洋理工大学（Nanyang Technological University，简称N.T.U.）和新加坡国立大学（National University of Singapore，简称N.U.S.）——已经就开发校园地下阶梯教室、图书馆、运动设施和表演大厅事宜完成了初步研究。另一所高校新加坡管理大学(Singapore Management University)已经在地下室层搭建空间，打通了学校主要地上建筑之间的联系。
At N.T.U., a group of researchers has spent the past year gathering available data on the university’s surface topography and subsurface geology.
在南洋理工大学，一个研究团队已经从去年起开始收集有关学校表面地形和地下地质的可用数据。
The preliminary survey, completed late last month, found that the campus, which is in western Singapore, offers opportunities for underground space development. Extensive investigations indicated that rock strata 20 to 30 meters, or 66 to 98 feet, below the surface, are suited for cavern construction with spans as wide as 20 meters wide.
这一初步调查在上月末完成。调查发现，地处新加坡西部的南洋理工大学有发展地下空间的可能性。大量的调查显示，在地表下方20至30米，即约66至98英尺的岩层适用于建造20米宽的洞室建筑。
“In the long term, the university may need to go underground” to accommodate projected increases in the student population, said Zhao Zhiye, one of four researchers who worked on the study.
为了容纳预计增加的学生数量，“从长远来看，学校可能需要向地下扩建”，该项目四位研究员之一的赵志业说。
The study, which started in July 2012, could be used as a supplement to the university’s ambitious 15-year strategic plan to develop the 200-hectare, or 500-acre, campus. The plan, unveiled in 2011, proposed infrastructure like outdoor spaces, interdisciplinary buildings, and a campus-wide network of pedestrian walkways and cycling lanes.
这项研究始于2012年7月，可以作为南洋理工大学雄心勃勃的15年战略规划的补充。该校计划在15年内开发其占地200公顷（合500英亩）的校园。这一计划于2011年公布，提议的基础设施包括室外空间、跨学科大楼、以及贯穿整个校园的步行道和骑行线网络。
“It may not be at this particular moment, but if in 10 years’ time we run out of space, going underground is a good option,” said Mr. Zhao, an associate professor at the university’s School of Civil and Environmental Engineering and interim director at the Nanyang Center for Undergound Space.
“虽然眼下可能无虞，但如果我们的空间在10年内开发完，向地下开拓会是一个不错的选择，”南洋理工大学市政与环境工程(School of Civil and Environmental Engineering)副教授及南洋地下空间研究中心(Nanyang Center for Undergound Space)的代主任赵志业说。
The researchers have also proposed preliminary designs for a four-story underground learning complex and a three-story underground sports hall.
研究员也已经为建造一栋四层地下综合教学楼和一座三层地下体育馆提出了初步设计建议。
Designed for both learning and socializing, the learning complex — a group of interconnected caverns — would include the university’s main library, a museum, study rooms, cafeterias and conference halls. The sports hall, beneath the existing university sports complex, would house basketball, badminton and table tennis courts, swimming pools and spectator stands.
综合教学楼设计用于学习和交际，由一系列互相连接的洞室组成，将容纳学校的主图书馆、博物馆、自习室、餐厅和会议室。地下体育馆将建在大学现有体育综合楼下方，包括篮球场、羽毛球场、乒乓球场、游泳池和观众看台。
“At this moment, from a concept point of view, we are looking at how much space we can create below the university campus if we really want to utilize the underground space,” said Mr. Zhao. “At a reasonable depth, there is enough space to accommodate various facilities, if there is a need in the future.”
“目前，我们是从理念的角度来考虑，如果真的想利用地下空间，能在校园下面开辟出多少空间，”赵志业说，“如果未来有这样的需求，在合理的深度能够有充分的空间容纳各类设施。”
According to the local media, National University of Singapore has also identified areas on its Kent Ridge campus, in the western part of the island, for underground development to house classrooms, sports halls, laboratories and libraries. In an e-mail last month responding to questions, the university described the reported study, completed last year, as preliminary.
据当地媒体称，新加坡国立大学在其肯特岗校区（位于新加坡西部）也划定了可以用于发展地下教室、体育馆、实验室和图书馆的区域。该校在上个月的一封邮件中回应称，报道所援引的研究已于去年完成，这属于初步研究。
While N.T.U. and N.U.S. continue to survey their underground potential, Singapore Management University, a business school, began using the space below its campus in 2005, building a one-level basement concourse to link its five main buildings and the mass transit system’s nearby Bras Basah train station.
当南洋理工大学和新加坡国立大学继续调查它们的地下发展潜力时，新加坡管理大学这所商学院已经在2005年开始使用校区的地下空间，建造了一个一层高的地下大厅，将其五栋主建筑和附近的勿拉士峇沙(Bras Basah)火车站打通。
“As in any city location, especially in dense urbanized locations like our university’s campus, the presence of existing underground utility services, including transit lines, were challenges the university had to overcome,” Loke Mun Sing, director of the university’s campus development, said in an e-mail.
“在所有城市区，特别是大学校区这样的城市密集区，包括交通线路在内的现有地下设施服务的存在，是大学必须克服的挑战，”新加坡管理大学校园发展主任骆蒙新（Loke Mun Sing，音译）在一封邮件里说。
The 19,000-square-meter, or 205,000-square-foot, air-conditioned concourse also houses facilities and amenities including offices, retail outlets, courtyards, a medical clinic and the university gymnasium.
新加坡管理大学1.9万平米（合20.5万平方英尺）的地下温控中央大厅也设有便利设施和设备，包括办公室、零售店面、庭院、一家诊所和大学健身房。
The universities are not alone in going underground. Other big subterranean facilities and projects include the Jurong Rock Caverns oil bunker and a proposed underground science city, as well as an underground ammunition depot completed in 2008. Expressways, transit lines, underground drainage systems and utility tunnels have become an integral part of the city’s urban landscape.
向地下开拓的并不只是高校。目前新加坡还出现了其它大型地下设施和项目，包括裕廊岛地下储油库和一个拟议的地下科学城，以及一个已经在2008年建成的地下弹药库。高速公路、交通线路、地下排水系统和公用事业隧道已经成为新加坡城市景观不可或缺的一部分。
Zhao Jian, professor of rock mechanics and tunneling at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, in Switzerland, who also worked on the N.T.U. study, said he expected the universities to move quickly to realize their underground potential.
瑞士的洛桑联邦理工大学(École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne)岩石力学与隧道学教授赵坚也参与了南洋理工大学研究工作。他说，预计各高校将会很快有动作，将其地下开发潜力变为现实。
“With the pressure on space, it will probably take place soon,” he said.
“迫于空间的压力，相关学校应该会很快采取行动，”他说。