New Year’s resolutions tend to run toward the grand if not the grandiose. We make vows about shedding pounds and shedding toxic friends, about smelling the roses and living in the moment. And, of course, about cleaning out the attic (and the basement).
新年决心往往都很宏伟。我们发誓减肥，远离损友，享受自然，活在当下。当然，还有清理阁楼（和地下室）。
“When it comes to resolutions, people tend to be wildly overambitious,” said Julie Morgenstern, the organizing and time-management expert. “The trick is small, doable concrete resolutions that give you huge rewards in terms of time, energy and control.”
“人们在制定新年计划时，往往过于雄心勃勃，”收纳和时间管理专家朱莉·摩根斯顿(Julie Morgenstern)说。“解决办法是制定一些从时间、精力和控制力方面能给你巨大回报，同时又具体可行的小目标。”
Here are a few specific tips:
摩根斯顿给出了以下这些具体的窍门：
1. “Pick one or two of the smallest areas you spend the most time in and tackle those first,” Ms. Morgenstern advises. Think sock drawer, medicine cabinet, refrigerator, front closet, brief case or purse. “You can get them done in an hour, two hours tops,” she said.
1. 摩根斯顿说：“选择一两处最小而且你也最常用的地方，先整理它们。”比如袜子抽屉、药柜、冰箱、衣橱、公文包或手袋。她说：“这些地方你能在一小时内清理好，最多俩小时。”
2. If your goal is, say, to get rid of the old, the torn, the obsolete, the ill-fitting and the duplicates in your closet, get an image of what you are decluttering for. “Don’t think of it as making room for more stuff,” Ms. Morgenstern counseled. “It’s about making room for new relationships or peace of mind or new experiences.”
2. 如果你的目标是丢掉衣橱里破旧、过时、不合身、或多余的衣服，那么你可以思考一下你清理的目的。摩根斯顿建议：“你的目标不应该是腾出空间放更多东西，而应该是建立新关系，获得内心的平静或新的体验。”
That might mean greater ease in getting ready for work and a newfound ability to exit the house on time because at long last you can actually find things in your closet.
那或许意味着，你可以更轻松地准备好去工作，也可以获得准时出门的新技能，因为你终于能在衣橱里找到东西了。
If you reorganize your kitchen, that could mean more home-cooked meals. If you tackle your CD collection, you could come home in the evening and put your hands on exactly what you are in the mood for.
如果你重新整理厨房，那意味着你能更多地在家做饭。如果你整理CD，那么晚上回到家，你就能很快找到想听的音乐。
3. Think kindergarten classroom when you’re organizing. You won’t find a tambourine at the sand table or in the arts and crafts area. Learn from that. “Store things where they’re used, not where they fit,” Ms. Morgenstern said. “In the kitchen, for example, group all food-prep items together: the food processor with the cutting board, measuring spoons, spatulas, whisks, et cetera.”
3. 整理时想想幼儿园的教室。你在沙盘里或手工区可找不到小手鼓。照那样去做。摩根斯顿说：“把东西放在它们会被用到的地方，而不是放在能放得下的地方。比如，在厨房里，把所有准备食物的东西放在一起：把食物处理机和切菜板、量匙、刮刀和打蛋器等放在一起。”
4. Become a realist about time. For anything you want to do or need to do, be honest with yourself about how long it’s going to take. “Don’t go into denial and wishful thinking,” Ms. Morgenstern said. “We get into the biggest trouble when we’re over-optimistic about how long it’s going to take to write a report, for example, catch up on expense accounts or navigate Costco, and then we over-plan. And then we feel defeated when we don’t get everything done.”
4. 预估时间要客观。诚实地预估你想要做或需要做的任何事情需要花费的时间。摩根斯顿说：“不要妄自菲薄，也不要痴心妄想。比如，如果我们对要花多长时间写报告、填报销单或逛Costco过于乐观，我们就会计划过多的事情，那样我们就会遇到大麻烦。事情做不完的时候，我们就会产生挫败感。”
5. Work from the inside out, whether you’re organizing your closet, your kitchen or your schedule, Ms. Morgenstern said. In other words, come up with a system based on the way you think, your natural habits and your goals.
5. 摩根斯顿说，不管是整理衣橱、厨房还是安排日程，你都要听从内心的想法。换句话说，就是根据你自己的思维方式、自然习惯或目标来制定计划。