TOKYO — Dealing a new blow to plans by Japan and the United States to relocate a busy Marine air base on Okinawa, the island’s voters handed a landslide victory on Sunday to an anti-base candidate for governor, rejecting the Tokyo-backed incumbent.
东京——日本和美国计划搬迁一个位于冲绳的繁忙的美国海军陆战队航空基地，但在上周日，当地选民纷纷投票给反对该计划的知事候选人，让他以压倒性的多数票战胜东京支持的现任知事，令该计划再度遭受打击。
Minutes after the polls closed, Takeshi Onaga, the former mayor of Naha, the Okinawan capital, was declared the winner over Hirokazu Nakaima, the current governor, who was backed by Japan’s governing Liberal Democratic Party. Waving to jubilant supporters, Mr. Onaga, 64, said that as governor he would resist construction of a new American airfield.
投票结束数分钟后，计票机构宣布冲绳首府那霸市的前任市长翁长雄志(Onaga Takeshi)获胜，日本执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)支持的现任知事仲井真弘多(Hirokazu Nakaima)落败。64岁的翁长雄志向欢呼雀跃的支持者挥手致意，并表示，作为知事，他将抵制在该县修建新的美军机场。
“The new military base will not be built,” Mr. Onaga said in comments carried by the Japanese national broadcaster NHK. “I will convey the will of the Okinawan people to the governments of Japan and the United States.”
“冲绳不会修建新的军事基地，”翁长雄志在日本国家电视台NHK的采访中表示。“我会向日本和美国的政府表达冲绳民众的意愿。”
The contest was closely watched in Tokyo and Washington for signs of weakening in local opposition to the huge American military footprint on this southern Japanese island, which is strategically near China, Taiwan and the Korean Peninsula. Political analysts said the result showed that resentment of the presence, long seen by many islanders as an unfairly heavy burden, remained as strong as ever. About two-thirds of the 50,000 American military personnel in Japan are stationed in Okinawa, an island slightly larger than Cape Cod.
冲绳岛位于日本南部，与中国大陆、台湾和朝鲜半岛毗邻，具有战略意义；对于美国在该岛的庞大军事存在，当地民众持反对态度，所以东京和华盛顿密切关注着这次选举，想了解这种反对态度是否有了减弱的迹象。政治分析师说，在很多岛民看来，美军的存在是一个不公平的沉重负担，本次选举结果表明，这种长期不满和以往一样强烈。目前在日本驻扎的美国军人有5万人，其中约三分之二驻扎在冲绳，该岛面积比科德角略大一点。
The election was fought over the fate of Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, a particularly unpopular base whose aging runway is surrounded by homes and schools in the middle of the densely populated city of Ginowan. Mr. Nakaima, 75, was supported by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has tried to restart an almost two-decade-old plan to move the base to a less-populated spot on the northern end of the island near Henoko, a village in the city of Nago.
这次选举事关普天间海军陆战队航空基地(Marine Corps Air Station Futenma)的前途命运。该基地特别招人诟病，因为它位于人口稠密的宜野湾市，其老化的跑道周围就是住宅和学校。现年75岁的仲井真弘多在首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的支持下，曾试图重启一项近二十年之前提出的计划：把该基地搬迁到冲绳岛北端名护市边野古村附近，一个人口稀少的地方。
Mr. Onaga campaigned on a platform of opposing the relocation, calling for the airfield to be moved off the island altogether. Two other minor candidates also staked out positions on what to do about the Futenma base, a highly emotional issue that has become a rallying point for Okinawan anger at the noise, pollution and crime brought by the American presence.
翁长雄志的主要竞选纲领是反对这种搬迁，要求把美军机场彻底移出该岛。另外两个支持者较少的竞选者也把矛头指向了普天间基地问题，由于美国驻军带来了噪音、污染和犯罪，令冲绳民众感到愤怒，这个高度情绪化的问题让人们团结了起来。
While Mr. Onaga’s victory was not a surprise — he had been leading in polls — political analysts called it a blow to budding hopes in Tokyo and Washington that Mr. Abe might finally get the new base built. The United States and Japanese governments first agreed in 1996 to relocate the airfield to an American base called Camp Schwab, near Henoko, but stiff local opposition has blocked the move.
虽然翁长雄志的胜利并不出人意料——在民调中他就一直领先——但政治分析师称，这对美日政府正在萌芽的希望是个打击，因为东京和华盛顿寄望安倍晋三能让新基地最终得以修建，在1996年时，美国和日本政府首次同意将机场搬迁至边野古附近一个名为“施瓦布军营"(Camp Schwab)的美军基地，但顽固的本地反对派阻止了该计划进行。
The project seemed to take a big step forward in December when the prime minister persuaded Mr. Nakaima to drop his opposition to the relocation and approve a contentious landfill permit. Mr. Abe, who has vowed to build closer military ties with the United States, won over Mr. Nakaima with offers of more than $3 billion in public works projects for Okinawa, including the construction of a second runway at Naha’s busy airport.
去年12月，该计划似乎向前迈进了一大步。当时在安倍晋三的劝说下，仲井真弘多放弃了反对基地搬迁的主张，并批准了一个引起争议的填埋许可证。一直以来，安倍晋三誓言要与美国建立更紧密的军事关系，他给仲井真弘多开出的条件是：在冲绳的公共工程项目上投资逾30亿美元，包括为那霸繁忙的机场建设第二条跑道。
Despite Mr. Nakaima’s defeat, analysts said Mr. Abe could still try to move ahead with the construction of the new Marine airfield because his government already has the permit to begin filling in the sea for its twin runways. But doing so would require him to push past the opposition of both the new governor and the current mayor of Nago, who won re-election in January.
尽管仲井真弘多在选举中失利，分析师表示，安倍晋三仍然可以尝试推动新海军陆战队机场的建设，因为他的政府已经获得了许可证，可以填海修建双跑道机场。但是，这需要他顶住新知事的反对，以及今年1月获得连任的现任那霸市长的反对才行。
“This will make building the new airfield extremely difficult, to say the least,” said Moriteru Arasaki, a retired professor of history at Okinawa University who has written several books on modern Okinawa. “Both the Japanese government and the United States government must now recognize that the people of Okinawa have spoken, and they are against this base.”
“因此，最起码地说，新机场的修建会变得非常困难，”冲绳大学(Okinawa University)退休的历史教授新崎盛晖(Moriteru Arasaki)说，他曾写过几本关于现代冲绳的书。“日本和美国政府现在必须意识到，冲绳民众已经发出了声音，他们反对修建这个基地。”
In its final count, the Okinawa prefectural election commission said Mr. Onaga had won 360,820 votes, easily beating Mr. Nakaima’s 261,076. Despite the setback, a member of Mr. Abe’s party said Sunday that the governing coalition would move forward with the relocation plan.
冲绳县选举委员会表示，最后的票数统计结果显示，翁长雄志赢得了360820票，轻松击败了获得261076票的仲井真弘多。尽管遭遇了挫折，安倍晋三所在政党的一名成员上周日表示，执政联盟将推进搬迁计划。
“We think this is an extremely harsh outcome,” Toshimitsu Motegi, the chairman of the party’s election strategy commission, told reporters in Tokyo. However, “the danger of Futenma has to be removed, and the government and governing parties intend to proceed with the plan.”
“这样的选举结果对我们非常不利。”自民党的选举战略委员会主席茂木敏充(Toshimitsu Motegi)在东京告诉记者。然而，“我们必须消除普天间基地的危险，政府和执政各党派打算继续推进该计划。”
Mr. Arasaki and others said the margin of Mr. Onaga’s victory reflected the depth of the betrayal felt by voters toward Mr. Nakaima, a two-term governor who had won re-election four years ago on a platform of opposing the relocation. At that time, Mr. Onaga supported Mr. Nakaima.
新崎盛晖和其他人说，翁长雄志的胜利，体现了仲井真弘多给选民带来了多么深的背叛感。四年前，仲井真弘多以反对搬迁机场为主要竞选纲领，赢得了连任知事的竞选。当时翁长雄志支持仲井真弘多。