SAN FRANCISCO — Consumers around the world seem to have an endless appetite for new versions of Apple’s iPhone. But that hearty taste hasn’t extended lately to the company’s other big i-product, the iPad.
旧金山——世界各地的消费者似乎对苹果公司(Apple)的新版iPhone有着无尽的需求。但最近，这种抢购热潮并没有扩展到苹果的另一款重要产品iPad上。
After four years of dominating sales, the iPad is slipping against its peers. It is still the most popular tablet computer, but it faces tougher competition from tablets made by Amazon, Samsung and Lenovo.
主导市场四年之后，iPad的销售量相对于同类产品有所下滑。尽管iPad仍是最受欢迎的平板电脑，但是亚马逊(Amazon)、三星(Samsung)及联想(Lenovo)推出的平板电脑，在竞争中对它造成了更强的冲击。
Can an upgrade reverse that trend?
升级产品能够扭转这种趋势吗？
During an event at its Cupertino, Calif., headquarters on Thursday, Apple is set to unveil new iPads that are expected to include fingerprint sensors for each model. A major revision of the full-size tablet, the iPad Air, is also expected.
苹果将于周四在加州库比提诺的总部举行发布会，推出新一代iPad，每一款新iPad都将配有指纹传感器。根据预期，苹果公司还将推出经过重大改进的全尺寸平板电脑iPad Air。
The new Air, which is Apple’s larger and more expensive tablet, will be much thinner and faster than the current one, according to an Apple employee who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the plans were not yet official.
iPad Air是苹果推出的尺寸较大、价格较高的平板电脑，据苹果员工透露，新版Air将会比现在的版本更薄、更快，由于该计划尚未正式公布，这名员工要求匿名。
The new iPads are also expected to include support for Apple Pay, the mobile payments system that Apple introduced last month for making purchases using the fingerprint sensor inside apps, rather than having to enter a credit-card number. And for those looking for a new color, gold iPads will be added to the mix.
新版iPad还将支持苹果公司上个月推出的移动支付系统Apple Pay，该系统可以利用指纹传感器，在应用中进行支付，而不用输入信用卡号。对于那些想要新颜色的顾客来说，还将推出金色iPad供选择。
Apple may have leaked some of its own news on Wednesday. An iPad instruction manual, written by Apple, surfaced on iBooks, Apple’s digital bookstore, with illustrations showing a new iPad Air and an iPad Mini including fingerprint sensors and improved cameras. An Apple spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment.
苹果自己可能已于周三泄漏了一些消息。苹果编写的iPad操作手册出现在了苹果的数字书店iBooks中，手册中包含新版iPad Air和iPad Mini的图示，新版iPad配有指纹传感器和改进的相机。苹果公司发言人没有回应置评请求。
The iPad now has a 26.9 percent share of the global market, ahead of Samsung with 17.2 percent and Lenovo with 4.9 percent, according to the research firm IDC. But in the second quarter, Apple’s iPad sales declined 9.3 percent compared with the same period a year ago, IDC said.
据市场调研公司IDC透露，在全球市场中，iPad占据26.9%的份额，三星和联想落后于苹果，分别占17.2%和4.9%。但IDC称，二季度苹果iPad的销售量同比下降了9.3%。
Part of the reason is that consumer interest in this kind of device — from any manufacturer — may also be waning. Shipments of tablets skyrocketed from 18 million in 2010 to 207 million last year, according to the industry analysis firm Gartner. But this year, Gartner predicts tablet shipments worldwide will be up 11 percent, a significant drop from a 55 percent increase in 2013.
部分原因在于，消费者对此类设备的兴趣或许也正在减弱，不管是哪家厂商制造的。科技研究公司高德纳(Gartner)透露，去年，平板电脑的出货量从2010年的1800万台飙升至2.07亿台。但高德纳预测，今年全球平板电脑的出货量将增加11%，远低于2013年55%的增幅。
“There were a certain number of people that were excited about tablets for a while,” said Mika Kitagawa, an analyst for Gartner. “But it turned out that tablets after all are not really a great product for some things, especially productivity and work. So some people actually go back to the laptop.”
“有一定数量的人，在一段时间里曾经对平板电脑感到很兴奋，”高德纳分析师北川美佳子(Mika Kitagawa)说。“结果发现，在某些方面，平板电脑终究不是一种非常好的产品，特别是作为生产工具、用于工作时。因此，一些人实际上用回了笔记本电脑。”
Theories abound as to why sales of the iPad, in particular, are slowing. Mostly, though, Apple faces intense competition from companies offering tablets for lower costs. Some, like those sold by Micromax in India, cost as little as $50; Amazon’s Kindle Fire can be had for as little as $100. Samsung Electronics offers tablets in different screen sizes at various prices, from the middle tier to the high end.
具体到iPad的销售为何放缓，有各种各样的解释。不过多数人认为，这是因为苹果面临着低价平板设备制造商的激烈竞争。有些平板设备的价格低至50美元，比如Micromax在印度销售的平板电脑；拥有一部亚马逊Kindle Fire最低只需100美元。三星电子也推出了不同屏幕尺寸和不同价位的平板设备，从中端到高端，型号一应俱全。
The cheaper tablets are “not really a comparison with iPad, but for those people who just want to do content consumption, those are good enough products,” Ms. Kitagawa said.
价格较低的平板设备“根本比不上iPad，但对于那些只想要消费内容的用户来说，它们已经足够好了”，北川美佳子说。
Another trend hurting overall tablet sales, analysts say, is that smartphone screens just keep getting bigger. Big-screen phones, or so-called phablets — a blurring of the line between a phone and a tablet — appear to be eating away at sales of smaller tablets.
分析师说，影响了平板设备整体销售的另一个原因，是智能手机屏幕不断变大的趋势。大屏手机或所谓的“平板手机”(phablet)是介于手机和平板之间的产品，它们似乎正在蚕食小尺寸平板设备的市场份额。
“When an opportunity arises to collapse a couple of categories together, that’s attractive,” said Jan Dawson, an independent telecom analyst for Jackdaw Research. “Some people who use a phablet will end up deciding to forgo a tablet, seeing one device as enough.”
“如果出现可以同时击垮两种产品的机会，那是非常有吸引力的，”Jackdaw Research公司研究电信行业的独立分析师贾恩·道森(Jan Dawson)说。“使用平板手机的人最终会放弃购买平板设备，因为他们觉得有一台就足够了。”
And for years, while tablet sales were on the rise, personal computers were taking a beating. But that started to change for some PC makers in the third quarter.
多年来，在平板销量不断提高的同时，个人电脑市场受到了冲击。不过，对于一些个人电脑生产商来说，这种状况在今年三季度发生了改变。
PC shipments over the last quarter fell roughly 1 percent, a notable improvement from the 10 percent drop in 2013. Analysts said businesses were buying PCs again partly because Microsoft discontinued support for an older version of Windows, called XP, which pushed many businesses to upgrade to new systems.
个人电脑的出货量上季度仅下降了约1%，与2013年10%的降幅相比有明显改善。分析师说，企业正在重新购置个人电脑，部分原因是，微软不再支持Windows的旧版XP系统，这迫使许多企业升级到最新的系统。
At the Cupertino event, Apple is also expected to show a new iMac with a sharper screen, and to give a release date for the next Mac operating system, OS X Yosemite, the Apple employee said.
前述苹果员工透露，在库比提诺的活动上，预计苹果将发布一款屏幕更加清晰的新iMac，并公布新版本Mac操作系统OS X Yosemite的发布日期。
Some moves Apple is making in the background could be even more important for the iPad than upgrades. In July, Apple announced a partnership with IBM to strengthen iPads and iPhones for use in businesses. The companies said they are working on more than 100 business software programs tailored for use in industries including retailing, health care, transportation, banking, insurance and telecommunications.
苹果正在幕后采取的一些行动，对于iPad有着比升级更重要的意义。今年7月，苹果宣布与IBM开展合作，强化iPad和iPhone在企业中的应用。这两家公司表示，正在开发超过100款商业软件，专门用于特定的领域，如零售业、医疗保健、交通运输、银行业、保险业和电信业。
Inside Apple, another project aimed at professionals is an iPad with a jumbo screen, according to two employees who spoke on condition they not be named because the product is not yet finished, nor is it considered official yet.
苹果的两名员工说，公司内部还在酝酿一个针对职场人士的项目：一款拥有特大屏幕的iPad。由于产品尚未完成，也没有成为正式项目，两人要求不具名。