SINGAPORE — Last year, American law enforcement officials pressed the Swiss bank UBS about Henry Hsiaw, a Taiwan-born American whom they accused of failing to file tax returns.
新加坡——去年，台湾裔美国人亨利·萧(Henry Hsiaw)被控没有提交纳税申报表，在此案中，美国执法官员向瑞士银行瑞银(UBS)施加了压力。
The world has changed since the days when Swiss banks stood as the peak of privacy for the rich. Already, UBS had paid $780 million in fines and disclosed details of thousands of Swiss bank accounts held by Americans — including the records of one account controlled by Mr. Hsiaw.
对于富人们来说，瑞士银行曾经意味着最高级别的隐私，但如今世界已经发生了变化。瑞银已支付了7.8亿美元的罚款，并披露了数以千计由美国人持有的瑞士银行账户的细节，其中就包括由亨利·萧控制的一个账户。
Still, UBS balked at handing over information about Mr. Hsiaw’s account with the bank in Singapore. That information, it said, was protected under the Asian city-state’s bank secrecy laws.
不过，瑞银没有交出亨利·萧在新加坡银行的账户信息。瑞银称，这些信息受到这个亚洲城邦的银行保密法保护。
That courthouse dispute illustrates the growing pressures on Singapore, an increasingly popular destination for money that wants to stay under the radar. Tight bank secrecy laws have helped draw $1.1 trillion in foreign funds to the city, according to an estimate from Boston Consulting Group, a consulting firm. Singapore is now growing faster than Switzerland and is set to become the largest cross-border financial center in the world by 2028, the firm forecasts.
对于不希望受到注意的金钱来说，新加坡是一个越来越受欢迎的目的地，而这一法律争议表明该国正日益受到压力。据咨询公司波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)估计，该国严格的银行保密法律已经吸引了1.1万亿美元的外国资金前来。新加坡现在的增长速度已经快于瑞士，该公司预计，到2028年，它将成为全球最大的跨国金融中心。
But in the face of growing international efforts to crack down on tax cheats, and complaints from abroad about its measures to stop illicit money, Singapore has made moves to show it takes the criticism seriously. It has jailed local and foreign bankers and closed down branches of two Swiss banks related to more than $3 billion that was said to have been siphoned from 1Malaysia Development Berhad, a Malaysian sovereign wealth fund, some of which moved through the city’s banks.
但面对国际社会打击税务欺诈的更多努力，以及国外对新加坡制止非法资金措施不力的投诉，新加坡已经采取行动，表明自己是在认真对待批评。它已经关押了若干本地和外国银行家，关闭了两家瑞士银行的分行，它们的涉案金额超过30亿美元，据称是从马来西亚主权财富基金一马发展有限公司(1Malaysia Development Berhad，简称1MDB)挪用而来，其中一部分曾在新加坡的若干银行内辗转。
Ravi Menon, chief of the city state’s top financial regulator, has said that 1MDB showed Singapore can do better. “There is no doubt that the recent findings have made a dent in our reputation as a clean and trusted financial center,” Mr. Menon said in a speech in July. The authority, he added, was “disappointed with the lapses” in financial controls.
新加坡最高金融监管机构负责人拉维·梅农(Ravi Menon)表示，1MDB一案表明新加坡可以做得更好。“毫无疑问，最近的调查结果令我们作为一个廉洁可靠的金融中心的声誉受到了损害，”梅农在7月份的演讲中表示，他还补充说，在金融管控方面，当局“对于这些疏忽感到失望”。
The Straits Times, a Singaporean newspaper, cautioned the city’s banks over 1MDB in an editorial last year. “Business is part of Singapore’s DNA,” it said, “but not the business of facilitating dubious deals.”
新加坡报纸《海峡时报》(The Straits Times)在去年的一篇社论中就1MDB一案警告该市的银行。“商业是新加坡DNA的一部分，”文章说，“但是为可疑交易提供便利的商业不在其中。”
Singapore’s position illustrates the new scrutiny global authorities are giving to quiet money. The Financial Action Task Force, a multicountry advisory group set up to combat money laundering, said last year that Singapore’s financial firms had “a less developed understanding of the risk of illicit flows into and out of Singapore.”
新加坡的立场说明了全球监管机构开始密切关注那些低调的钱。“金融行动特别工作组”(Financial Action Task Force)是一个为打击洗钱而设立的多国咨询小组，该组织于去年表示，新加坡的金融机构“对非法资金流入和流出新加坡的风险了解较少。”
“Singapore is the new Switzerland,” said Andy Xie, an independent economist based in Shanghai. Mr. Xie was fired as chief Asia economist at Morgan Stanley in 2006 after a private email he wrote calling Singapore a money laundering center became public.
“新加坡是新的瑞士，”生活在上海的独立经济学家谢国忠表示。谢国忠原本在摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)担任首席亚洲经济学家，2006年，在自己的一封称新加坡为洗钱中心的私人邮件曝光后，他被公司解雇。
“Since the U.S. Department of Justice went after Swiss banks for hiding tax dodgers years ago, Singapore has filled the role,” he said.
他表示：“自从美国司法部几年前开始追查瑞士银行隐瞒避税者之后，新加坡就填补了它留下的空白。”
The Monetary Authority of Singapore, its top financial regulator, disputed that allegation. “There is no doubt some increased risk of illicit fund flows associated with the rapid growth of private banking flows into Singapore,” a spokeswoman said in a written statement. Nevertheless, she said, Singapore “will not tolerate its financial system being used as a refuge or conduit for illicit fund flows.”
新加坡最高金融监管机构新加坡金融管理局(The Monetary Authority of Singapore)对这一指控提出异议。“毫无疑问，快速发展的私人银行涌入新加坡，会导致非法资金流动风险增加，”一位发言人在一份书面声明中说。不过新加坡“不会容忍其金融系统被用作非法资金流动的避难所或渠道”。
Singapore has positioned itself as a one-stop shop for Asia’s rich. It encouraged private wealth managers to use the city as a regional base in the 1990s just as China’s rise created a new generation of wealthy.
新加坡已将自己定位为亚洲富人的一站式服务中心。1990年代，中国的崛起创造了新一代富豪，与此同时，新加坡也鼓励私人财富管理者把该市作为在本地区的基地。
Today, in Singapore’s financial district, big names in the private-money world, like Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and UBS, keep offices in gleaming skyscrapers among the squat facades of century-old colonial British buildings. Billionaires can fly in to the private jet terminal, gamble at private high-stakes tables at the two new casinos, and buy and sell on the world’s first diamond trading exchange.
如今，在新加坡的金融区里，瑞信(Credit Suisse)、瑞士宝盛(Julius Baer)和瑞银等大银行的办公室坐落在闪闪发光的摩天大厦之中，周围环绕着有百年历史、建造于英国殖民时期的低矮建筑。亿万富翁可以飞到这里的私人飞机专用航站楼，在两家新赌场的私密高注额赌桌前赌博，在世界上第一家实物结算钻石交易所买进卖出。
They can store art, wine, gemstones or gold bullion bars in an ultra-secure, duty-and-tax-free facility called Le Freeport. Modeled on similar installations in Switzerland, the facility has been called “Singapore’s Fort Knox.”
他们可以将艺术品、葡萄酒、宝石或金条存放在自由港(Le Freeport)，这是一处超级安全、完全免税的设施，以瑞士的类似设施为模板，被称为“新加坡的诺克斯堡(Fort Knox)”。
The 1MDB scandal has cast a shadow over Singapore’s success. American officials are trying to recoup more than $1 billion that they say was taken from 1MDB and ultimately spent in the United States by family and friends of Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak. Those funds went to American purchases like luxury homes in Manhattan and Los Angeles, to help finance the Hollywood movie “The Wolf of Wall Street” and to acquire paintings by Picasso and Monet, they said in a civil suit last year.
1MDB丑闻为新加坡的成功蒙上了阴影。美国官员正在努力追偿超过10亿美元的资金，他们声称，这笔钱是从1MDB取出的，最终由马来西亚总理纳吉卜·拉扎克(Najib Razak)的家人和朋友在美国花掉。去年，美国官员在一桩民事诉讼中说，这些钱被用于购买曼哈顿和洛杉矶等地的豪宅，为好莱坞电影《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)提供资金，并用于购买毕加索和莫奈的油画。
The officials have focused on Low Taek Jho, also known as Jho Low, a young Malaysian financier who partied with the likes of Paris Hilton. American officials say Mr. Low played a crucial role in laundering hundreds of millions of dollars from 1MDB into the United States. Mr. Low and Mr. Najib have denied wrongdoing.
官员们的重点关注对象是刘特佐（Low Taek Jho，也被称为Jho Low），他是一个年轻的马来西亚金融家，同帕丽丝·希尔顿(Paris Hilton)等人结交。美国官员说，在1MDB洗钱案中，数亿美元之所以能够合法进入美国，刘特佐在其中发挥了至关重要的作用。刘特佐和纳吉卜均否认自己曾经从事不法行为。
“1MDB and these other cases are a game changer for Singapore,” said Chris Leahy, a co-founder of BlackRock, a corporate advisory and investigations firm, who is based in Singapore.
“1MDB以及其他这些案件对于新加坡来说，都是颠覆性的，”BlackRock公司联合创始人克里斯·雷希(Chris Leahy)表示，BlackRock是一家总部位于新加坡的企业咨询和调查公司。
In December, a Singapore court sentenced Yeo Jiawei, a former private banker at the local branch of the Swiss bank BSI, to 30 months in prison for tampering with witnesses and obscuring his ties to Mr. Low. In March, Singaporean regulators barred Tim Leissner, a former Goldman Sachs banker who worked with 1MDB, from dealing in securities here for 10 years.
12月，新加坡法院以篡改证据及掩盖同刘特佐的关系等罪名，判处瑞士瑞意银行(BSI)本地分行的前私人银行专员杨家伟30个月监禁。3月份，新加坡监管机构对曾与1MDB合作的前高盛(Goldman Sachs)银行职员蒂姆·雷斯纳(Tim Leissner)做出处罚，禁止其从事证券交易10年。
A lawyer representing Mr. Leissner did not respond to a request for comment. Goldman Sachs said it was cooperating.
代表雷斯纳的律师没有回应置评请求。高盛表示公司正在与新加坡合作。
Singapore is acting ahead of tighter regulations. Next year, new rules on global financial information exchanges among members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are set to go into effect locally.
新加坡正在提前采取更严格的管制。明年，经济合作与发展组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)成员国之间关于全球金融信息交流的新规则将在新加坡生效。
Le Freeport has also come under additional scrutiny. In its report in September, the Financial Action Task Force said that in some cases, the Singaporean authorities did not know enough about what was going on at Le Freeport, given the risks.
自由港也受到了额外密切的关注。金融行动特别工作组在其9月份的报告中表示，在某些情况下，考虑到风险的存在，新加坡当局对于自由港发生的事情尚不够了解。
Customs officials in Singapore say they have “robust regulatory measures” to prevent illicit activities. Lincoln Ng, the chief executive of Le Freeport and a former Singapore police officer, said local regulators “are aware of the activities through stringent checks and audits.”
新加坡海关官员说，他们有“强有力的监管措施”来防止非法活动。自由港行政长官、前新加坡警务人员林肯·伍(Lincoln Ng)表示，地方监管机构“通过严格的检查与审核了解这些活动。”
Le Freeport, which is controlled by Yves Bouvier, a Swiss art dealer who is also a resident of Singapore, rents the space to firms that park merchandise there on behalf of clients. Tenants include Mr. Bouvier’s own art transportation and storage firm, Natural le Coultre, which says it conducts due diligence on its clients and goods.
自由港掌握在定居新加坡的瑞士艺术交易商伊夫·布维耶(Yves Bouvier)手中，他把这里的空间租赁给代表客户寄放商品的公司。租户中也包括布维耶自己的艺术运输和仓储公司Natural le Coultre，该公司表示对客户和货物做过尽职调查。
“In short, we know what we have on hand and with whom we are dealing,” says Christian Pauli, general manager of fine art logistics at Natural le Coultre.
“简而言之，我们知道我们手上在处理什么东西，我们也知道自己在和什么人打交道，”Natural le Coultre的美术物流总监克里斯蒂安·保利(Christian Pauli)表示。
The facility combines European chic with the sort of security one might see in a James Bond movie. Private vaults lie behind an 11-ton steel door flanked by concrete walls that are more than 15 inches thick. Three different people are required to unlock the door. Some tenants, like companies handling precious metals, install extra cameras, facial recognition technology or iris readers.
这处设施既有欧洲式的精致，又有仿佛出自007电影的安全措施。私人保险库位于一座11吨重的钢门之后，四周环绕着超过15英寸厚的混凝土墙。需要三个不同的人才能打开门锁。一些租户，比如处理贵金属的公司，还会安装额外的摄像头、面部识别技术或虹膜扫描仪。
Le Freeport cannot gain access to the vaults once they have been leased to customers, which include art storage services like Christie’s and companies specializing in handling gems and precious metals, wine, or banks storing gold bullion. In marketing materials, many tenants highlight confidentiality as a selling point.
保险库一旦被租给客户，自由港管理方就不能再进入，这里的客户包括佳士得等提供艺术品存储服务的公司；专门处理宝石、贵金属和葡萄酒的公司；以及储存金条的银行。在营销材料中，许多租户强调公司的保密性，将之作为卖点。
In the case of Mr. Hsiaw, the American born in Taiwan, lawyers say the Justice Department chose a particularly aggressive approach. Independent lawyers say American prosecutors based their initial action against UBS on a powerful type of summons that would have allowed them to follow the money from previous Swiss bank prosecutions that was later deposited in Singapore.
至于台湾裔美国人亨利·萧一案，律师说，司法部选择了一种特别强硬的做法。独立律师表示，美国检察机关对瑞银采取的初步行动是基于一种格外有力的传唤之上的，这使得他们能够追踪瑞士银行以前曾涉及起诉后来又被存入新加坡的钱。
The United States dismissed its charges after UBS produced some information on Mr. Hsiaw’s Singapore accounts. Mr. Hsiaw, a former telecommunications executive who relocated to China in 2007, could not be reached for comment.
瑞银提供亨利·萧的若干新加坡账户信息之后，美国方面撤回了这些指控。亨利·萧曾在电信业担任高管，于2007年迁往中国，无法联系到他置评。
UBS said it had complied with all applicable laws, but did not elaborate.. Singapore’s monetary authority said Singapore officials “can render assistance so long as there are legitimate grounds.”
瑞银说，它已经遵守了所有适用的法律，但是没有详细说明。新加坡金融当局表示，新加坡官员“只要有合法理由就可以提供协助”。
Lawyers say the case, the first of its kind in the United States to target Singapore accounts, amounted to a warning shot.
律师说，这是美国同类案件中首例以新加坡帐户为目标的案件，相当于一种警告。
“It’s the nuclear option,” said Jeffrey Neiman, a lawyer in Florida who was one of the lead prosecutors on the federal government’s initial 2009 case against UBS’s Swiss bank.
“这是一个‘核选项’，”佛罗里达州律师杰弗里·内曼(Jeffrey Neiman)说，2009年初，他曾在联邦政府讼瑞银瑞士分行一案中担任主要检察官之一。
He added, “the ultimate death knell for secrecy in any jurisdiction would be a bank getting served one of these subpoenas and choosing to litigate, then losing in court.”
他补充说：“在任何司法管辖范围内，保密制度最后的丧钟就是一家银行得到传票，并选择诉讼，然后在法庭上失败。”