DALLAS — New shortcomings emerged Wednesday in the nation’s response to the Ebola virus after it was revealed that a second nurse was infected with Ebola at a hospital here and that she had traveled on a commercial flight the day before she showed symptoms of the disease.
达拉斯——周三，美国应对埃博拉病毒的工作暴露出了新不足。据透露，达拉斯一家医院出现了第二名护士感染埃博拉病毒的情况，而且这名护士在出现埃博拉病状的前一天，曾乘坐商业航班。
The nurse, Amber Joy Vinson, 29, was on the medical team that cared for the Ebola victim Thomas Eric Duncan after he was admitted to the hospital on Sept. 28 and put in isolation. Ms. Vinson should not have traveled on a commercial flight, federal health officials said, when she boarded Frontier Airlines Flight 1143 on Monday, en route from Cleveland to Dallas-Fort Worth.
29岁的护士安贝尔·乔伊·文森(Amber Joy Vinson)是照看埃博拉患者托马斯·埃里克·邓肯(Thomas Eric Duncan)的团队成员。邓肯于9月28日入院，并被隔离。联邦卫生官员表示，文森周一登上了边疆航空(Frontier Airlines)从克利夫兰飞往达拉斯-沃思堡机场(Dallas-Fort Worth)的1143航班，她当时不应该乘坐商业航班。
One official said Ms. Vinson had called federal health officials before boarding the plane to report having a slightly elevated temperature but was allowed to fly.
一名官员表示，文森在登机前曾给联邦卫生官员打电话，报告称自己体温略高，但她获准乘坐飞机。
A second case of Ebola among the nearly 100 doctors, nurses and assistants who treated Mr. Duncan for 10 days at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital was not unexpected. For days, federal health officials have warned that in addition to Nina Pham, the first nurse confirmed with the disease, other cases were likely.
在德克萨斯长老会医院(Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital)医治邓肯的10天期间，有将近100名医生、护士及助手参与，医护人员中出现第二例感染病例并不出人意料。数日来，联邦卫生官员警告称，除了第一名确诊感染埃博拉病毒的护士妮娜·范(Nina Pham)之外，还有可能出现其他病例。
But the appearance of a new Ebola patient replayed a public-health drama that unfolded in this city twice before in a two-week period. The day also provided more signs of concern about the ability of federal officials to control the spread of the disease, particularly to health care workers, — and indications that the issue was becoming politicized.
但新埃博拉患者的出现，重演了一场公共卫生事件，过去两周时间里，类似的事件在这座城市已经出现了两次。这段时期还出现了更多迹象显示，人们对联邦官员控制埃博拉病毒传播的能力感到担忧，特别是病毒向医护人员的传播。还有迹象显示，这个问题已经政治化。
President Obama on Wednesday canceled a trip to a fund-raiser in New Jersey and a campaign rally in Connecticut so he could convene a meeting of officials to coordinate the government’s response to the spread of the Ebola virus. Cities and states adopted heightened security measures, and Ms. Vinson was being treated at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta rather than in Dallas — all signs of the heightened focus on the disease and the fears it has stirred.
周三，奥巴马总统取消了前往新泽西州参加募捐活动、前往康涅狄格州参加竞选集会的行程，以便能够召集官员开会，协调政府应对埃博拉病毒的工作。各城市、各州也加强安全了措施，文森在亚特兰大埃默里大学医院(Emory University Hospital)接受治疗，而不是达拉斯，这些都说明人们高度关注该疾病，并为此感到担忧。
Speaker John A. Boehner of the House on Wednesday became the highest-profile Republican to urge Mr. Obama to consider a ban on travel to the United States from West African countries where the Ebola virus is spreading rapidly. The same point has been raised by several Republican candidates in tight Senate races, including David Perdue of Georgia, Mike Rounds of South Dakota and Joni Ernst of Iowa. 
周三，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)呼吁奥巴马考虑颁布禁令，禁止埃博拉病毒迅速蔓延的西非国家的乘客前往美国，博纳成为了提出此类要求的知名度最高的共和党人。几名激烈角逐参议院席位的共和党候选人也提出了同样的意见，比如乔治亚州的戴维·珀杜(David Perdue)、南达科他州的迈克·朗兹(Mike Roundds)，以及艾奥瓦州的约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)。
At Kent State University in Ohio, where Ms. Vinson studied nursing and her mother and two other relatives worked, officials issued a statement asking her three family members to stay off campus for the next three weeks, “out of an abundance of caution.” Frontier Airlines said it had put the two pilots and four flight attendants on Flight 1143 on paid leave.
文森曾在俄亥俄州肯特州立大学(Kent State University)学习护理，她的母亲及另外两名亲属也都在该大学工作。该大学的管理人员发表声明称，“出于高度谨慎考虑”，该大学要求文森的三名亲属在接下来三周的时间里远离校园。边疆航空表示，该公司已经让1143航班上的两名飞行员及四名乘务员带薪休假。
The Frontier jet that carried Ms. Vinson on Monday made five flights after her trip before it was taken out of service, according to Flightaware.com. Frontier, which is based in Denver, said it grounded the plane as soon as it was notified, about 1 a.m. Wednesday, about the Ebola patient.
Flightaware.com网站上显示，文森周一的旅程结束后，她所搭乘的这架边疆航空的客机又飞行了五次才停止运营。总部位于丹佛的边疆航空称，公司在周三凌晨1点左右接到了机上有埃博拉患者的通知后，立即停飞了这架飞机。
The first nurse infected, Ms. Pham, 26, remained in good condition, the hospital said. Ms. Vinson was ill but stable, as she was transferred Wednesday to Emory, one of four hospitals in the United States that have special containment units for isolating patients with dangerous infectious diseases.
医院方面称，首位感染埃博拉的美国护士妮娜·范一直状况良好。妮娜·范现年26岁。文森身体不适，但病情稳定，于周三被转到了艾默里大学医院，这所医院是设有特殊隔离单元，可以隔离危险传染病患者的四家美国医院之一。
Though Ms. Vinson had traveled on Monday, the day before she reported symptoms, she had been among a group of hospital workers at Presbyterian who were being monitored after Ebola was diagnosed on Sunday in Ms. Pham. And although her temperature did not meet the fever threshold of 100.4, Ms. Vinson reported to health officials that her temperature at the time she traveled was 99.5 degrees.
文森在旅行后第二天就出现了埃博拉症状。而在她周一出行时，她已经是长老会医院受到监控的医护人员之一，监控是妮娜·范周日被确诊之后开始的。此外，虽然文森的体温当时没有达到华氏100.4度（摄氏38度）的发热标准，但是文森对卫生官员报告，自己旅行时的体温已经达到99.5度（摄氏37.5度）。
“Because at that point she was in a group of individuals known to have exposure to Ebola, she should not have traveled on a commercial airline,” the C.D.C. director, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, said. “The C.D.C. guidance in this setting outlines the need for what is called ‘controlled movement.’ That can include a charter plane, that can include a car but it does not include public transport.” Hours after Dr. Frieden spoke, a federal health official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly, said that because it was thought that Ms. Vinson’s protective gear would have kept her safe and because the temperature was only mildly elevated, she fell into a category not covered by C.D.C. guidelines.
“因为她当时是已知接触过埃博拉患者的人员之一，她本不应该乘坐商业航班出行，”CDC主任托马斯·R·弗里登(Thomas R. Frieden)说。“CDC针对这种情境的指导规范中提到了，需要采取所谓的‘受控出行’措施，即可以乘坐专机或私人汽车，但不能乘坐公共交通工具。”在弗里登发表上述言论的几个小时后，一名联邦卫生官员称，文森的防护服据信可以保护她的安全，而且她只是轻度发热，因此文森的情况不在CDC的指导规范之内。由于无权公开发表言论，此人要求不具名。