The days are getting shorter. The swimsuits have been put away. The football season has begun.
白昼一点点变短。泳装已经收了起来。橄榄球新赛季业已开始。
That can mean only one thing: The start of the school year is near.
这一切仅仅意味着一件事：新学年临近了。
At one time, preparing children for school required buying new clothes and a fresh set of pencils. These days, your child is likely to need Internet access and a laptop even more than a composition notebook.
在以前，为孩子们做好入学准备，需要购置新衣服，添一套新铅笔。而在今时今日，你的孩子对上网和笔记本电脑的需要，也许甚于对作文本的需求。
For parents, the choices can be overwhelming — and expensive. Here are some tips to get started.
对于家长来说，面前充斥着铺天盖地的选择——而且所费不赀。以下，我们给您提供了一些着手做准备的建议：
FOR THE FAMILY First, you need to prepare your home. Make sure you have robust Internet access. Much homework these days requires children to do research on the Internet, even in elementary school.
家庭 首先，你需要将家里的准备工作做好。要确保有流畅的互联网接入。现在孩子们的家庭作业，很多都需要在网上做研究，哪怕在小学也不例外。
And while much of the world is abandoning paper copies — airplane boarding passes can be displayed on a smartphone screen and many stores offer e-mailed receipts, for example — most schools require students to hand in homework in printed form.
同时，尽管这个世界的很多地方已经摒弃了纸张——比方说，登机牌可以智能手机屏幕上显示，很多商店提供电邮版本的收据——大部分学校仍需要学生交打印好的作业。
Make sure you have a printer at home, as well as a spare printer cartridge and an extra ream of paper. Too many parents discover that sinking feeling when the printer ink runs out the night before a child’s big project is due. Now is the time to stock up on backup supplies.
因此你家得有台打印机，此外还要有备用墨盒和大量纸张。有太多家长碰到过在孩子要交重要作业的前一天晚上突然发现打印机没有油墨的糟心事了，所以现在是时候囤积备用物品了。
Also make sure there are multiple ways to back up, save and transfer files between home and school, and the other way around. A 16-gigabyte thumb drive, $10 at Best Buy, for example, might seem low-tech, but it can provide enough storage to get an edited video project off a student’s laptop. Most models can also survive a trip through the washing machine.
同时还要确保电脑中的文件无论是从家带到学校，还是从学校带回家，都有多种方法予以备份、保存和传送。比方说在百思买(Best Buy)有售的一只16G闪存价格为10美元，看起来不那么高科技，但足够从学生的笔记本电脑中拷下一份已编辑过的视频作业。而且大部分闪存即使丢进了洗衣机里，也照样能用。
To ensure that gadgets have power, invest in spare cables and an extra USB charger, like the PowerGen Dual Port USB Adapter, $9 at Amazon, to increase the chances that your phone and your child’s will be fresh in the morning.
为了保证各类电子产品有电，你可以花钱购买备用线缆和USB充电器，比如PowerGen的双端口USB适配器，亚马逊(Amazon)售价为9元，这样，清早起来时，你们全家大小手机电量保持满格的可能性会更大。
It’s also time to update your browser’s school-related bookmarks, for easy access to the health office or a teacher’s home page. While you’re there, plug your school’s dates into your shared family calendar.
现在，也是时候更新你浏览器跟学校相关的书签了，你得把卫生服务处网页或孩子老师的主页都加进去。同时，还可以把孩子的校历安排纳入家人共享的日历中。
MIDDLE-SCHOOLERS Middle school is generally when many parents first give a child a smartphone or laptop. According to a Pew survey released this year, nearly half of middle and high school students own these devices.
初中生 很多家长通常是在孩子步入初中时，第一次送给他们智能手机或笔记本电脑。据今年皮尤(Pew)发布的一项调查，近半数初中和高中学生拥有这些电子产品。
Amy Dirlam, the technology integration specialist at the St. Joseph Public Schools in St. Joseph, Mich., recommends checking with your child’s school before investing in a device. That is because schools are increasingly providing some sort of hardware to students, she said. In Ms. Dirlam’s district, for example, this fall each incoming sixth-grader will be issued a MacBook Air that will follow the student into high school, provided it is cared for.
位于密西根州圣约瑟夫市的圣约瑟夫公立学校数据集成专家艾米·德莱姆(Amy Dirlam)建议，在购置电子产品前，可以先跟孩子的学校确认一下。她说，这是因为有越来越多的学校为学生提供各类硬件。比方说在她所在校区，今年秋季入学的六年级学生都会配一台MacBook Air笔记本，只要学生悉心爱护它，可以一直用到读高中。
Chances are, though, you’ll be faced with spending your own money if you want to buy your middle-schooler a computer. For most children, a laptop is a better bet than a desktop because it is portable and can be taken to school or to a library.
不过，也有可能你需要自己出资为读初中的孩子买电脑。对于大部分孩子，笔记本比台式电脑更合适，因为它便于携带，可以带去学校或图书馆。
The Acer Chromebook, $200 at Best Buy, is one of many light, durable Internet-centric appliances built around Google’s Android operating system. These have full keyboards and robust batteries, but limited local storage. That’s a similar issue with many tablet options, like Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 2 10.1 Student Edition, $320, a bundle that includes a keyboard, tablet and docking station.
现在有很多轻巧耐用、以互联网为中心、搭载谷歌安卓操作系统的产品，宏碁(Acer)Chromebook（百思买售价200美元）就是其中一个。这种电脑拥有全键盘和持久电力，不过本地存储空间有限。很多平板电脑也会有类似的问题，比如三星(Sumsung)Galaxy Tab 2 10.1的学生版，售价320美元，包括外接键盘、平板和底座。
If you want to add more storage, a USB hard drive like the one terabyte Toshiba, $75 at B&H Photo, works for local storage; for individual projects, cloud-based services like Dropbox, Google Drive or SugarSync are free, provided you register and stay within the minimal storage requirements.
如果你想扩容，像东芝(Toshiba)1TB（B&H Photo售价75美元）可解决本地存储问题；而在做单个的作业时，可以考虑像Dropbox、谷歌云端硬盘或SugarSync这样的云存储服务，只要你注册了，而且存储的需求不是太大，就可以不用花钱。
Smartphones are becoming a middle school staple — and may provide more than just a social advantage — but be sure your child’s school allows them.
智能手机已经俨然成为初中的必需品，而且它的用途可能不仅仅是社交那么简单——不过你得先搞清楚孩子的学校是否允许使用。
IN HIGH SCHOOL A high school student is more likely to need more technology, particularly the computing power provided by a full-featured laptop for editing video and other jobs that require more storage, a large screen and specialized software.
高中生 高中生可能需要用到更多科技产品，尤其是一台功能全面的笔记本，在编辑视频和进行其他操作时，需要笔记本有更大的内存、较大的屏幕和专业的软件。
A Windows 8-based Toshiba Satellite laptop, $365, with 500 gigabytes of internal storage and a DVD drive, might be one choice for a high schooler. At a huge price jump, the light and powerful MacBook Air, $1,000 and up, continues to be the top choice for power, ease of use and durability. You can always add more storage, either locally or online.
东芝Satellite笔记本搭载了Windows 8操作系统，有5G内存和DVD驱动器，售价365美元，也许可作为高中生的选择之一。价格比它高得多的是起价1000美元的MacBook Air，它轻巧且功能强大，综合电量、易用性和耐用性各方面标准，它始终是最好的选择。而且你可以不断在本地或云端增加内存。
The high school years are when apps and gadgets start forming around a child’s interests. If your child is taking an advanced math class this fall, you may be dismayed to learn that many schools still require a specialized calculator, like a TI-84 Plus, $90 at Walmart. You could buy a much cheaper calculator app, but most schools will not allow students to use a tablet or a smartphone when taking a test.
在高中阶段，孩子们开始根据自己的兴趣寻找各类应用软件和电子产品。如果你的孩子在今年秋天开始上高数课程，你可能会失望地得知很多学校仍然需要学生使用专门的计算器，比如TI-84 Plus（沃尔玛售价90美元）。你当然可以买到便宜得多的计算器应用软件，但绝大多数学校都不允许学生在考试时用平板电脑或智能手机。
Young musicians might need an app like AccuTune, $1 for Apple devices, and an extra pair of personal earbuds, like Skullcandy 2xl, $10, will come in handy.
学音乐的学生也许需要给自己的苹果设备购买像AccuTune（售价1美元）这样的应用，此外个人配一套备用耳机，比如Skullcandy 2xl（售价10美元）也会很方便。
COLLEGE FRESHMAN A college freshman’s first test? Getting his or her laptop in tune with the school’s network. This is easier said than done, which is why it helps to tap into the expertise found in most college technology departments to help gain access to the institution’s printers and shared drives. The department can also set up your child’s e-mail account on a laptop and smartphone. Don’t forget to have the student put phones and other devices on the university’s Wi-Fi network, to reduce data charges. Some colleges will lend gadgets like external DVD drives, which may be needed to install specialized software.
大学新生 大学新生的第一门考试？把他/她的笔记本电脑连入学校内部网。这说起来容易做起来难，所以很多高校的科技院系都会提供专业帮助，让学生们连接上学校的打印机和共享硬盘。院里面还会帮忙给学生们的笔记本和智能手机设置好邮件账号。不要忘了，要让孩子的手机和其他器材连上学校的无线网，好减少流量花费。一些高校允许学生借用部分装置，比如外接DVD驱动器，这可能需要再额外安装相关的软件。
Giving a child any device with an Internet connection requires oversight. A sudden wave of adolescent emotion could generate a photo or a social media message that could become what Gail Lovely, a former teacher and owner of Lovely Learning, a consulting firm for schools, refers to as a “digital tattoo” that comes up in a job interview 10 years later.
给孩子任何可接入互联网的设备，都需要加以监督。一阵突如其来的青春期情愫，可能会带来用盖尔·洛夫里(Gail Lovely)的话来说，在10年后工作面试时成为“数字文身”的照片或社交信息。洛夫里曾是老师，现在开设了专为学校服务的咨询公司“洛夫里学习”(Lovely Learning)。
Ms. Lovely also suggested that phones, tablets or laptops that leave home should be insured and stored in a protective case, and recommended that every parent learn how to limit a child’s access to things like in-app sales and mature-rated content.
洛夫里女士还建议任何从家中带出去的手机、平板或笔记本都应该上保险，并存放在设有器材保护箱里，并且推荐所有家长都学会限制孩子接触某些内容，比如嵌入式应用程序网店或限制级内容。
Also critical are some things that can’t be purchased — a trusting parent-child relationship, and your ability to properly match your child’s growing desire for Internet access with his or her emotional maturity. For these, there are no apps.
还有些金钱无法购买到的东西同样重要——彼此信任的亲子关系；以及在孩子心智成长，对网络需求渐增时，你恰如其分顺应其发展的能力。对于这些，可没有应用程序。