So you’re coming to New York City around the holidays, and you’d like to see some art?
预计在假期到纽约，来一趟艺术之旅吗？
No problem. We’ve got plenty.
没问题，我们有很多选择。
But whether you’re heading for a big show at the Met or somewhere further afield, there are a few things to keep in mind.
但是不管你是要到大都会艺术博物馆(Met)或者是到没有那么热门的地方，请务必记得几件事。
— This is the busiest time of the year for many museums, with attendance rising steadily between Thanksgiving and New Year’s.
那段时间是许多博物馆一年之中最忙碌的时刻，从感恩节到新年期间，参观人数渐渐上升。
“From now until the end of the year over all we’d expect to see about 40 percent more visitors” than in a normal week, said Tina Vaz, a spokeswoman for the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. In the week between Christmas and New Year’s, she added, average daily attendance is 60 percent higher than usual.
跟平常时间相比，“从现在一直到年底，我们预估参观人数会增加40%，”所罗门‧R‧古根汉美术馆(Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)的发言人蒂娜‧瓦兹(Tina Vaz)说。她补充，在圣诞节到过年之间，每日参观人数比平常多了六成。
— Saturdays see the biggest crowds, year-round.
周六人最多，全年的周六都这样。
— Try going on Wednesdays, or after 3:00 p.m., when crowds begin to thin.
可以在周三去，或下午三点后，那时候人会渐渐变少。
— New Year’s Eve afternoon is usually the least bustling during the busy holiday week.
在最忙那周的跨年当天下午，人最少。
— You will have an extra day at the Whitney Museum of American Art, which has seen a soaring number of visitors since opening in its downtown location in the spring. The museum is usually closed on Tuesdays, but it will be open on Tuesday, Dec. 29.
惠特尼美术馆(Whitney Museum of American Art)会多开一天，自从这间美术馆在市中心的新馆春天开始营运以来，参观人数一直在上升。原本惠特尼美术馆周二休馆，但在12月29日的那个周二会开放。
— The big museums are closed on different days: The Guggenheim is closed on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. The Met is closed on Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day. MoMA closes at 3 p.m. on Christmas Eve and is closed on Christmas Day. And the Whitney is closed only on Christmas Day.
很多大博物馆闭馆时间不一样。古根汉博物馆(Guggenheim)在圣诞节前夕和圣诞节当天闭馆，大都会艺术博物馆在圣诞节和元旦闭馆；现代艺术博物馆(MoMA)在圣诞节前夕开到下午3点，在圣诞节闭馆。惠特尼美术馆只有圣诞节闭馆。
Now, what kind of art do you want to see? Here are some suggestions from The New York Times’s critics.
所以，你想要找的是那一种艺术呢？以下是《纽约时报》的建议：
Go Big
大展览
MoMA’s “Picasso Sculpture” has proved so popular that you need a timed admission ticket to get in. (Museum members can get in an hour early.) The Times’s Roberta Smith wrote, “Large, ambitious and unavoidably, dizzyingly peripatetic, this is a once-in-a-lifetime event.”
现代艺术博物馆的《毕加索雕塑展》(Picasso Sculpture)大受欢迎，所以进去是有一定时段（博物馆会员可以提早一小时入场）《纽约时报》的罗伯塔‧史密斯(Roberta Smith)写道：“宽广、具野心、不可避免的，多得让人头晕的参观者，这是场一生一次的展览。”
Downtown, at the Whitney’s new home, there’s “Frank Stella: A Retrospective.” Ms. Smith wrote that “the show provides an overdue update on the mythic, maligned artist who has adamantly done it his way.”
在惠特尼市中心的新馆，展着《弗兰克·斯特拉：回顾展》(Frank Stella: A Retrospective)。罗伯塔‧史密斯写道：“这个展览提供了这位神话般、邪恶面的艺术家固执呈现的作品。”
Both exhibitions run through Feb. 7.
这两场展览都将展到2月7日。
Go Smaller (in Manhattan)
小展览（在曼哈顿内）
— “Francis Bacon: Late Paintings” at Gagosian’s Madison Avenue gallery through Dec. 12
《弗朗西斯‧培根：晚年画作》(Francis Bacon: Late Paintings)，高古轩画廊(Gagosian)，展至12月12日。
— “Fields of Dream: The Surrealist Landscape” at Di Donna through Dec. 18
《梦之地：超现实主义者的风景》(Fields of Dream: The Surrealist Landscape)，迪·唐纳画廊(Di Donna)，展至12月18日。
— “Mnemosyne: de Chirico and Antiquity” at Helly Nahmad through Dec. 23
《摩涅莫辛涅：德·契里柯和古代》(Mnemosyne: de Chirico and Antiquity)海利·纳哈迈德画廊(Helly Nahmad)，展至12月23日。
— “Philippine Gold: Treasures of Forgotten Kingdoms” at Asia Society through Jan. 3
《菲律宾黄金：被遗忘的王国之宝藏》(Philippine Gold: Treasures of Forgotten Kingdoms)，亚洲协会博物馆(Asia Society)，展至1月3日。
— “Transmissions: Art in Eastern Europe and Latin America, 1960-1980” at MoMA through Jan. 3
《传播：东欧和拉丁美洲的艺术，1960到1980年》(Transmissions: Art in Eastern Europe and Latin America, 1960-1980)，现代艺术博物馆，展至1月3日。
— “Martin Puryear: Multiple Dimensions” at the Morgan Library through Jan. 10
《马丁‧ 普里尔：多重面向》(Martin Puryear: Multiple Dimensions)，摩根图书馆(Morgan Library)，展至1月10日。
— “Jim Shaw: The End Is Near” at the New Museum of Contemporary Art through Jan. 10
《吉姆‧肖：末日将近》(Jim Shaw: The End Is Near)，新当代艺术博物馆(New Museum of Contemporary Art)，展至1月10日。
— “The Eye of the Shah: Qajar Court Photography and the Persian Past” at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World through Jan. 17
《国王之眼：卡扎尔宫廷摄影和波斯的过去》(The Eye of the Shah: Qajar Court Photography and the Persian Past)，古代世界研究所(Study of the Ancient World)，展至1月17日。
— “Superheroes in Gotham” at the New-York Historical Society through Feb. 21
《高谭市的超级英雄》(Superheroes in Gotham)，纽约历史协会(New-York Historical Society)，展至2月21日。
— “Ebony G. Patterson: Dead Treez” at Museum of Arts and Design through April 3
《埃博妮‧G‧帕德森：Dead Treez》(Ebony G. Patterson: Dead Treez)，艺术和设计博物馆(Museum of Arts and Design)，展至4月3日。
Go Elsewhere
其他
— “What Border Have You Crossed?” at the Queens Museum through Dec. 31
《你越过了什么的边界？》(What Border Have You Crossed?)，皇后区艺术博物馆(Queens Museum)，展至12月31日。
— “Martin Wong: Human Instamatic” at the Bronx Museum of the Arts through Feb. 14
《黄马鼎：人类快照》(Martin Wong: Human Instamatic) ，布朗士美术馆(the Bronx Museum of the Arts)，展至2月14日。
— “Coney Island: Vision of an American Dreamland, 1861-2008” at the Brooklyn Museum through March 13
《科尼岛：美国梦之岛的视角，1861-2008》(Coney Island: Vision of an American Dreamland)，布鲁克林博物馆(Brooklyn Museum through)，展至3月13日。
Go Outside
户外走走
Most everything is closed on Christmas Day. But there is more than enough art in public (authorized and otherwise) to fill a day’s wandering. Dozens of official installations and permanent works are on view. If you’re looking for street art and you need a guide, you can try the Geo Street Art app, which is regularly updated, but includes at least a few works that are now gone.
圣诞节那天，几乎所有店都关门，但是在户外也有许多艺术品（授权的或不定），能够度过这一天。你可以看到许多官方装置艺术或者永久装置，如果你想要找街头艺术，需要导览的话，可以使用Geo Street Art这个应用装置，它经常更新，但上面也会有一些现在不复存在的作品。