HONG KONG — A 17-year-old has been arrested in Singapore over a video in which he criticizes Lee Kuan Yew, the founding father of the modern city-state who died on March 23, according to the Singaporean news media.
香港——据新加坡的新闻媒体报道，一名17岁的年轻人在新加坡被逮捕，因为他在一段视频中批评李光耀。李光耀是这个现代化的城邦国家的创始人，于3月23日去世。
The arrest came on Sunday as Singapore held a state funeral for Mr. Lee that was attended by world leaders and dignitaries. Thousands of Singapore’s residents also braved a rainstorm to see his coffin pass through the streets.
逮捕发生在周日，当天新加坡为李光耀举行了国葬，来自世界各国的领导人和政要参加了葬礼。成千上万的新加坡居民也冒着暴雨前来观看他的灵柩从街道上经过。
Singapore has put in place measures that have been criticized as strict limits on expression, and its politicians, including Mr. Lee, have won defamation cases against critics and libel cases against foreign news media outlets, among them The International Herald Tribune, now The International New York Times.
新加坡一直有被外人批评为严格限制言论的措施，包括李光耀在内的该国领导人多次赢得起诉批评者破坏名声的案子，以及针对包括国际先驱论坛报(The International Herald Tribune)、现名纽约时报国际版(The International New York Times)的诽谤案。
The arrested teenager, who was identified by The Straits Times in Singapore as Amos Yee, appeared in a video posted to YouTube last week titled “Lee Kuan Yew Is Finally Dead!” In the video, he delivers an eight-minute monologue questioning whether the Singapore’s prosperity under Mr. Lee’s leadership had left its citizens happy.
新加坡的《海峡时报》(The Straits Times)确认被捕的青少年名叫阿莫斯·易(Amos Yee)，上周，他在YouTube上发布一段题为“李光耀终于死了！”的视频。他在视频中独自一人讲了八分钟的话，对李光耀领导下的新加坡繁荣是否让其公民快乐表示质疑。
“He created an environment where his blatant flaws as a leader were hidden because most people were afraid of criticizing him,” the teenager says in the video.
这名青少年在视频中说，“他创造了一个环境，在这个环境中，他作为一个领导者的赤裸裸缺陷被隐藏起来，因为大多数人不敢批评他。”
The video, which was also critical of Christianity, led to at least 20 complaints to the police, The Straits Times reported. It has since been made private on Mr. Yee’s YouTube account.
这段视频也批评了基督教，引起至少20人向警方投诉，《海峡时报》报道说。那之后，视频已在易先生的YouTube帐户中置于不能公开观看的状态。
Mr. Yee was also accused of posting obscene material on his Facebook page and blog, according to local news reports.
据当地新闻报道，易先生还被指控在自己的Facebook网页上发布淫秽材料。
The Singapore police did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday.
新加坡警方周一没有马上对置评请求做出回应。
“The individual had said many things against Mr. Lee and the government that are defamatory under the penal code, as well as in violation of the sedition act,” the lawyer Chia Boon Teck, who filed one of the complaints against the video, told The Guardian. “His utterances against Christians also amounted to a ‘deliberate intent to wound religious feelings’ under the penal code.”
将视频向警方投诉的人之一、律师谢闻德(Chia Boon Teck)对《卫报》(The Guardian)说，“该人曾多次对李先生和政府表达不敬，按照刑法，这都属于诽谤，也违反了惩治叛乱法。他对基督徒的公开言论，按照刑法，构成了‘故意伤害宗教感情罪’。”