SINGAPORE — In the middle of this island nation of highways and high-rises lies a wrinkle in time: Bukit Brown, one of the world’s largest Chinese cemeteries.
新加坡——在这个充满高速公路和高层建筑的岛国的中心，有一道时间的皱纹：武吉布朗坟场(Bukit Brown)，它是世界上最大的华人公墓之一。
Now neglected and overgrown, it offers an incredible array of tombstones, statues and shrines just four miles north of the downtown’s banks, malls and regional headquarters.
如今这里已被废弃，杂草丛生，但仍可以看到一系列不可思议的墓碑、雕像和神龛，就在市中心的银行、购物中心和区域总部以北4英里。
For years, the 213-acre site was a destination for Halloween thrill seekers and bird watchers, a haven of green in an overcrowded land. But in recent years it has become something much more powerful: a pilgrimage site for Singaporeans trying to reconnect with their country’s vanishing past.
多年来，这个占地213英亩的地方是万圣节寻找刺激者和鸟类观察者的目的地，是这片过度拥挤的土地上的一个绿色港湾。但是近年来，它变成了某种强大得多的东西：试图与这个国家消失的过去重新取得联系的新加坡人的朝圣地。
That has put Bukit Brown at the center of an important social movement in a country that has rarely tolerated community activism — a battle between the state, which plans to level part of the cemetery, and a group of citizens dedicated to its preservation.
因此，在这个很少容忍社区行动主义的国家，武吉布朗成为了一项重要的社会运动的中心，计划铲平公墓部分区域的政府，与致力于保护它的一群公民之间展开了对抗。
Surprisingly in a culture of relentless modernization, its advocates are scoring some successes in limiting damage to the cemetery and raising consciousness about the island’s colorful history.
在这个不断寻求现代化的社会中，这是意想不到的，在限制对该公墓的破坏，提高公众对该岛丰富历史的认知方面，该运动的倡议者取得了一些成功。
Built in 1922, Bukit Brown was the final resting place for about 100,000 Singapore families until it was closed in 1972. Its importance is greater than its relatively recent 50-year history implies because many historic graves were relocated there from other cemeteries that were paved over.
武吉布朗建于1922年，是约10万个新加坡家庭的长眠之地，直到1972年被关闭。这里的重要性超过了该国相对短暂的五十年历史，因为许多具有历史意义的墓地被从其他推平的公墓搬到了那里。
Add in an abandoned cemetery next door for a prominent Chinese clan, and experts estimate that up to 200,000 graves are sprinkled amid the surrounding rain forests, including those of many of Singapore’s most famous citizens.
专家估计，加上旁边一个被遗弃的著名华人家族的墓地，周围的雨林里散落着多达20万个坟墓，包括多位新加坡知名国民的墓地。
“You have to think of the cemetery as an amazing historical archive,” said Kenneth Dean, head of the Chinese studies department at the National University of Singapore. “But given how things have developed recently, I have deep concerns about how long it will survive.”
“你一定要把这个公墓看作一座了不起的历史档案库，”新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)中文系主任丁荷生(Kenneth Dean)说，“但是鉴于最近事情的发展情况，我对它能存在多久深感担忧。”
Those worries have to do with this city-state’s insatiable appetite for land. Singapore’s 5.7 million residents live on 277 square miles, a bit less than the area of New York City, but the land has to accommodate more than a municipality’s needs. It must hold the infrastructure of a country, including military bases, landfills, reservoirs, national parks, and one of the world’s busiest airports and harbors.
这些担忧与这个城市国家对土地永不满足的渴望有关。新加坡的570万居民生活在277平方英里的土地上——比纽约市还小一点——但它必须承担多于城市的职能。它必须拥有一个国家的基础设施，包括军事基地、垃圾填埋场、水库、国家公园，以及世界上最繁忙的机场和港口。
More than 20 percent of the country is built on reclaimed land, leading its two immediate neighbors, Malaysia and Indonesia, to ban the export of sand to Singapore in order to protect their own land. And with plans calling for Singapore’s population to increase to 6.9 million by 2030, land is at a premium.
该国逾20%的土地是填海造地，导致它的两个邻国马来西亚和印度尼西亚禁止向新加坡出口沙子，以保护自己的土地。新加坡计划到2030年将该国的人口增至690万，所以土地极其珍贵。
Part of the solution has been to look inward. In 2011, the government decided to smooth out a bend in the island’s north-south highway by cutting through Bukit Brown. Soon after, the government announced that within 40 years the rest would be paved over, too.
这个问题部分上要从内部解决。2011年，政府决定去掉该岛南北向高速公路上的一个弯道，也就是从武吉布朗穿过。不久之后，政府宣布，该公墓的其余部分也将在40年内铲平。
After watching many of their best-known monuments and neighborhoods leveled over the past decades, Singaporeans began to take action — a turning point that people here compare to the 1963 destruction of Pennsylvania Station, a Beaux-Arts masterpiece in New York City whose loss catalyzed historic preservation in the United States.
在过去几十年里，新加坡人看到很多著名古迹和社区被拆除，所以他们开始采取行动。他们把这个转折点与1963年拆除宾夕法尼亚火车站(Pennsylvania Station)相比较，那座车站是纽约市的一件布杂艺术杰作，它的拆除推动了美国对历史遗迹的保护。
At their center is an informal group of two dozen volunteers who call themselves “Brownies.” They offer free tours and run a website that details the cemetery’s history and includes testimonials by locals and visitors.
他们的核心是一个由20多名志愿者组成的非正式团体，这些志愿者称自己为“布朗人”。他们提供免费导游，建了一个网站，详细介绍公墓的历史，包括当地人和游客的赞扬。
One of the first Brownies was Raymond Goh, 54, a pharmacist who used to lead Halloween tours around the cemetery. (As in many parts of the Chinese cultural world, Singapore is obsessed with ghost stories and ghoulish legends.) After a while, Mr. Goh began to read the inscriptions on the tombstones carefully and was surprised at the antiquity of the graves.
第一批布朗人中包括54岁的雷蒙德·吴（Raymond Goh，音），他是一名药剂师，过去经常在公墓附近带领万圣节旅游团参观（和有华人文化的许多地方一样，新加坡也痴迷鬼故事和恐怖传说）。过了一段时间，吴开始仔细阅读墓碑上的铭文，惊讶于那些坟墓的古老。
“I noticed a lot of graves looked very old and, in fact, that some were from the time of Raffles,” Mr. Goh said, referring to Singapore’s British colonial founder, Sir Stamford Raffles. “I wondered how come nobody told me this was here?”
“我注意到很多坟墓看起来很老，实际上有些是莱佛士时代的，”吴说。他指的是新加坡的英国殖民地创立者斯坦福德·莱佛士爵士(Sir Stamford Raffles)。“我想知道为什么没人告诉我这里有这个呢？”
When the government’s plans were announced in 2011, Mr. Goh and his brother Charles wondered how to save Bukit Brown. They began training other volunteers, including university professors familiar with the world of academic research, former journalists who help with public relations, and business people who provide community outreach and funding. In other words, it was a cross section of middle-class Singaporeans who felt nostalgic about the lost city of their youth and were eager to better understand their cultural roots.
2011年，政府公布自己的计划后，吴和兄弟查尔斯(Charles)一直在思考如何拯救武吉布朗。他们开始培训其他志愿者，包括熟悉学术研究领域的大学教授，帮助处理公共关系的前记者，以及提供社区探访和资助的商界人士。换句话说，它是新加坡中产阶级的一个横断面，他们怀念自己年轻时那个逝去的城市，渴望更好地理解自己的文化根源。
Brownies have guided me through the site several times over the past few months, and I thought it was indeed a marvel. The lush vegetation made us feel cut off from the thriving modern city, while the tombstones were beautiful in their own right, even without explanations.
在过去数月里，布朗人多次引导我游览这个地方，我觉得它的确令人惊叹。郁郁葱葱的植被让我们感觉远离繁华的现代城市，而墓碑本身就很美丽，甚至无需解释。
Some are like mini-fortresses, guarded by stone Chinese or British lions, or even Sikh soldiers. Others were decorated with Taoist and Confucian images and symbols. Some told of the dead person’s loyalty to a political party or a lost dynasty.
有些像小堡垒，由中式或英式石狮甚至锡克族士兵守卫。还有些装饰着道家和儒家的图像和符号。另外一些则讲述死者对一个政党或一个陨落王朝的忠诚。
Thanks to the explanations by guides like Ian Chong, a professor at the National University of Singapore; Ang Yik Han, an engineer; lawyer Fabian Tee, a lawyer; and Claire Leow, a former journalist, I began to understand how this city-state was crucial to the British Empire’s Asian holdings.
多亏新加坡国立大学教授庄颖（音）、工程师洪毅瀚(Ang Yik Han)、律师池凌志(Fabian Tee)以及前记者廖雪珠(Claire Leow)等导游的介绍，我开始理解为什么这个城市国家对大英帝国的亚洲属地如此重要。
We surveyed the enormous mausoleum of Ong Sam Leong, a supplier of labor to the Christmas Islands, who died in 1917 and whose grave was relocated here. I also saw the grave of Tan Kim Cheng, who married Anna to the King of Siam, and those of revolutionaries who supported Sun Yat-sen when he was plotting the ultimately successful downfall of China’s last dynasty.
我们研究了王三龙(Ong Sam Leong)的巨大陵墓，他是圣诞岛的劳工供应商，于1917年去世，墓地被搬到了这里。我还看到了陈金钟(Tan Kim Cheng)的墓地，他是安娜(Anna)和暹罗国王姻缘的牵线人。还有那些支持孙中山的革命家的墓地——在孙中山的策划下，中国的最后一个王朝最终被推翻。
Many of the tombs were decorated with the distinctive tiles used by longtime Chinese immigrants to these regions, while others showed the strong influence of Malayan culture.
许多坟墓用迁往这些地区的中国移民长期使用的独特砖石进行装饰，而其他一些则显示出马来文化的强烈影响。
“This is where East and West came together,” Mr. Ang said. “We are standing at the center of the island, the belly of the dragon, and we can’t let it be cut open.”
“这里是东西方的交汇地，”洪毅瀚说，“我们站在岛的中央，龙的腹部，我们不能让人剖开它。”
I couldn’t help but think of many of the world’s other great resting places. In terms of trees and wildlife, Bukit Brown evoked London’s Highgate Cemetery; as a retreat from daily life it felt like Green-Wood in Brooklyn; and as record of one country’s famous people it recalled Père Lachaise in Paris or Buenos Aires’s Cementerio de la Recoleta.
我忍不住想到了世界上的其他很多伟大的长眠之地。从树木和野生动物的角度讲，武吉布朗让我想起了伦敦的海格特公墓(Highgate Cemetery)；作为逃避俗世喧嚣的一个去处，它感觉像布鲁克林的绿树林公墓(Green-Wood)；作为国家名人的记录，它让人想起了巴黎的拉雪兹神父公墓(Père Lachaise)或布宜诺斯艾利斯的雷科莱塔公墓(Cementerio de la Recoleta)。
For Professor Dean, these tombstones show the rich links between Southeast Asia and specific regions of China. Under his direction, a team of researchers is entering data from the gravestones into databases, allowing the development of maps showing how clans and villages migrated from coastal China to these faraway shores.
对丁荷生教授来说，这些墓碑展示了东南亚与中国特定地区之间的丰富联系。在他的指导下，一个研究小组正将墓碑上的信息录入数据库，从而绘制出地图，展现宗族和村庄如何从中国沿海迁移到这些遥远的海岸。
Recently, one of Professor Dean’s projects received government financing. Although officials refused numerous telephone and fax requests for interviews about the cemetery, they seem to be coming around to understanding its importance.
前不久，丁荷生的一个项目获得了政府资助。虽然官员们拒绝了许多关于该公墓的电话和传真采访请求，但他们似乎开始理解它的重要性。
Already, the government has yielded to some of the Brownies’ demands. Originally, 5,000 graves were to be moved, but that number has been reduced to 3,700. And instead of pulverizing the tombstones, they are being cataloged and stored in a warehouse. In addition, the government has set up a heritage-assessment board to review future projects.
政府已经开始满足布朗人的一些要求。最初，有5000个坟墓将被移除，但这个数字已经减少至3700个。那些墓碑没有被粉碎，而是正被编目并存储在仓库中。此外，政府还成立了遗产评估委员会，审查未来的项目。
This willingness to compromise seems to reflect a broader sentiment in a society that has moved so quickly that people feel rootless and without deep ties to their country. During one walk through the cemetery, I met a Ministry of Defense official who asked that only his first name, Pete, be used because of the sensitivity of his position.
这种妥协意愿似乎反映出这个社会更广泛的情绪，它发展得太快，人们感觉失去了根基，与国家缺乏深刻的联系。有一次，我在公墓散步时，遇到了国防部的一名官员。由于他立场的敏感性，他要求只公布他的名字皮特(Pete)。
“Our nation is a young one, and we’ve been so focused on the future that we sometimes forget the past,” he said. “Bukit Brown is a huge trove of stories.”
“我们的国家很年轻，我们太关注未来，有时忘了过去，”他说，“武吉布朗是个巨大的故事宝库。”