Prospecting for oil in Brazil, manufacturing steel in Russia, erecting skyscrapers in China: Global bond investors have financed some of the grandest investment projects taken on by emerging economies in recent years.
在巴西勘探石油、在俄罗斯制造钢铁、在中国建造摩天大楼：近年来，全球债券投资者为新兴经济体一些宏伟的投资项目提供了资金。
But as growth falters in a number of developing nations, economists and regulators have become increasingly worried about the consequences of this borrowing frenzy and the risk that the mutual funds and hedge funds that have largely replaced more stable commercial banks as global financiers might all decide to rush for exits at the same time.
但随着许多发展中国家增长的放缓，一些经济学家和监管者越来越担心这种借款狂潮的后果，以及所有共同基金和对冲基金可能会在同一时间决定离场的风险。这些基金基本上已经取代了更稳定的商业银行，成了全球范围内的融资机构。
“It’s fair to say that the market got a little overexuberant,” said Scott A. Mather, the head of global portfolio management at the mutual fund giant Pimco. “Many years of private sector credit growth have created serious vulnerabilities.”
“可以说市场稍微有些过热，”共同基金巨头太平洋投资管理公司(Pimco)全球投资组合负责人斯科特·A·马瑟(Scott A. Mather)说，“私营部门的信贷多年来一直保持增长，造成了严重的风险。”
Analysts point out that compared to the Asian financial crisis in 1997, the borrowing binge this time is being funded largely by global bond investors and includes companies outside Asia as well. Unlike two decades ago, governments of developing countries have built up substantial foreign exchange reserves and are better able to weather any crisis. Still, fears remain that any panicky selling of Chinese, Russian or Brazilian bonds could turn into a financial rout. And over a longer stretch, the broader question is the potential effect from a closing of the once-welcoming global bond market to borrowers in regions of the world that have been driving growth in recent years.
分析人士指出，同1997年的亚洲金融危机相比，这次借款狂潮涉及的资金，基本上是由全球债券投资者提供的，牵涉其中的也有亚洲以外的企业。不同于二十年前，发展中国家的政府已经积累了大量外汇储备，增强了应对危机的能力。然而人们依然担心，任何对中国、俄罗斯或巴西债券的恐慌性抛售，都会引发金融市场崩盘。而且从长远来看，更严重的问题是，一旦曾经开门迎客的全球债券市场，对近些年来推动经济增长的地区的借款人关上了大门，会产生怎样的潜在影响。
The underlying problem, Mr. Mather said, is that bond investors with little or no experience in emerging markets piled in to pursue higher yields than they could get from safer government securities in the United States and elsewhere, snapping up the bond issues of companies with even riskier credit profiles.
马瑟表示，根本的问题是，没有在新兴市场投资的经验，或相关经验很少的债券投资者为了追求更高的收益率蜂拥而至，将那些信用风险更大的企业发行的债券抢购一空。这些债券的收益率，高于安全性更高的美国及其他国家的政府债券。
The stampede has led to a so-called mirage of liquidity in which many investors may have been misled into thinking that selling the securities will be as easy as buying them was.
这种热潮已经造成了一种流动性的假象，许多投资者可能都被误导了，以为这些债券在出售时，会和买进时一样容易。
“The liquidity is much worse now than before the crisis,” Mr. Mather said.
马瑟说，“现在的流动性比危机之前差很多。”
Since the Federal Reserve began its aggressive bond buying program, driving interest rates in the United States to lows not seen in decades, high-yielding international bonds issued by nongovernment emerging market borrowers have doubled.
美联储(Federal Reserve)开始实施大规模购买债券的计划，促使美国利率降至几十年来的最低水平以来，新兴市场非政府借款人发行的高收益国际债券总额已经翻了一番。
Total bonds outstanding are now at a record high of $2 trillion, according to a new report by Merrill Lynch that warns of the consequences of this explosion in emerging market debt and the shift away from traditional bank loans.
美林(Merrill Lynch)新近发布的一份报告显示，目前未偿还债券总额已高达创纪录的2万亿美元（约合12万亿元人民币）。该报告提醒人们警惕新兴市场的这种债务激增，以及脱离传统银行贷款的趋势可能造成的后果。
Bond market veterans like Petrobras, the Brazilian energy concern that has issued close to $30 billion worth of foreign currency bonds in the last four years, are still leading the parade.
债券市场的老手，比如过去四年里已经发行了价值接近300亿美元的外汇债券的能源企业巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)，依然走在前列。
Petrobras is an investment-grade issuer; it issues bonds at relatively low interest rates because its oil and gas projects are considered to be ultrasecure.
作为投资级的债券发行人，巴西石油发行的债券利率相对较低，因为该公司的油气项目被认为非常安全。
But more worrisome are the high-yield or junk bonds, issued by, among others, steel companies in Russia and property developers in China. One particularly popular borrower has been Country Garden, a Chinese developer that has issued $4.2 billion in bonds since late 2009.
但更令人不安的是高收益债券或垃圾债券。这些债券的发行人包括俄罗斯的钢铁企业和中国的房地产开发商。其中一个尤其受欢迎的借款人是碧桂园。自2009年年底以来，这家中国房地产开发商已经发行了价值42亿美元的债券。
Most recently, in the autumn, the company raised $750 million by issuing seven-year bonds at an interest rate of 7.5 percent; the deal was so popular, bankers say, that it was oversubscribed by $18 billion. Like other risky bonds, Country Garden securities sold off aggressively in recent weeks, with the yield hitting 8.4 percent before regaining some strength in recent days.
最近一次是去年秋季，该公司以7.5%的利率发行七年期债券，筹得7.5亿美元资金。银行业者说这些债券大受欢迎，超额认购额达180亿美元。与其他高风险债券一样，碧桂园的债券最近几周也遭到大举抛售，在最近几天重新走强之前，收益率曾达到8.4%。
As growth disappoints and profits suffer, some of these borrowers are defaulting on their debts. Among the largest defaults was the implosion of OGX, a Brazilian energy conglomerate that went bust recently; others include Mexican home builders and Kazakh banks.
由于经济增长差强人意，利润受到影响，一些借款人开始拖欠债务。规模最大的违约个案中，有一宗涉及最近破产的巴西能源巨头OGX公司；墨西哥的一些建筑企业和哈萨克斯坦的一些银行也出现了违约。
“I think this is definitely coloring the expectations of investors,” said Richard Segal, an emerging market bond analyst at Jefferies in London.
“我认为这肯定影响了投资者的预期，”杰富瑞(Jefferies)驻伦敦的新兴市场债券分析师理查德·塞加尔(Richard Segal)说。
Of late, the issue has received a public airing in Washington, after the Office of Financial Research, a newly created analytical body within the Treasury Department, came out with a report drawing attention to the lemminglike tendency of global asset managers to “crowd or herd into popular asset classes or securities regardless of the size or liquidity of those asset classes or securities.”
最近，华盛顿的相关机构公开评论了这个问题。金融研究办公室（Office of Financial Research，简称OFR）是财政部内新成立的一个分析机构，它发布的一份报告令公众对全球资产管理机构一哄而上的做法产生了关注，报告中说，这些机构“成群结队地涌向流行的资产类别或有价证券，无论这些资产类别或有价证券的规模或者流动性如何。”
The report said that more than $1.5 trillion had flowed into bond funds in the last five years — far outpacing other segments like equities and money markets — and pointed out that large asset management entities such as Pimco, BlackRock, Capital Research and Fidelity had been the main beneficiaries of these inflows.
该报告称，过去五年已有1.5万亿美元资金流入债券基金——远远超过股票和外汇市场等其他领域。报告还指出，像Pimco、贝莱德(BlackRock)、资本研究(Capital Research)和富达(Fidelity)这样的大型资产管理机构，是流入资金的主要受益者。
For a financial industry that already saw itself as over-regulated, the O.F.R. study came as a shock. The main trade group for asset managers, the Investment Company Institute, has aggressively contested the agency’s suggestion that too much exposure to risky emerging market bonds by American fund managers poses a broader financial risk.
对于已经觉得自己受到过多监管的金融业来说，OFR的报告令它们感到震惊。OFR提出，美国基金经理持有太多风险较高的新兴市场债券，这构成了更广泛的金融风险。资产管理行业的主要行业协会美国投资公司协会(Investment Company Institute)对OFR的上述观点提出了咄咄逼人的反驳。
By contrast, the agency’s decision to highlight this risk factor has drawn the support of several influential economists, including Hyun Song Shin, a financial economist at Princeton and the incoming head of research at the Bank for International Settlements, the idea factory based in Basel, Switzerland, catering to global central banks.
另一方面，该机构指出这个危险因素的做法，也得到了数名很有影响的经济学家的支持，其中包括即将成为国际清算银行(Bank for International Settlements)研究负责人的普林斯顿大学金融经济学家申铉松(Hyun Song Shin)。国际清算银行总部设在瑞士巴塞尔，致力于全球央行的政策合作。
In a recent paper, Mr. Shin warned of the risks that prevail when bond investors, who traditionally have a shorter-term approach than commercial lenders, pile into and out of the same markets at the same time.
在最近的一篇文章中，申铉松警告说，债券投资者在同一时间涌进涌出同一个市场会带来很大的风险。债券投资者的投资期限向来比商业信贷机构短。
“We have never seen anything like this before,” he said. “It is unprecedented, and it is dangerous.”
“我们以前从没见过这样的情况，”他说。“这种事情前所未有，而且很危险。”
Mr. Shin also worries that regulators, in pushing hard for big banks to increase their cash reserves, are missing the more critical issue: Aggressive borrowers in some of the larger emerging markets have been relying on fickle bond investors to fund their investments. And those investors are becoming nervous about their exposure to these economies, threatening to choke off the funding pipeline.
申铉松还担心，监管机构在大力推动大银行增加资金储备的同时，却没有对更严重的问题采取措施：在一些较大的新兴市场，进取型的借款人一直在依靠反复无常的债券投资者来融资。而这些投资者对于自己在这些经济体面临的风险，已经开始感到不安，可能会切断资金管道。
“It may not be an acute crisis,” Mr. Shin said. “But it will be slow and simmering and the impact on global growth will be damaging.”
“这可能不会马上造成危机，”申铉松说。“但是会慢慢发酵，而且这对全球经济增长的影响将是破坏性的。”