NEW DELHI — For some worried expatriates and Indians, the battle to keep pollution out of their homes and their lungs started well before renewed media coverage in the past weeks unofficially crowned New Delhi as the world’s most polluted city.
新德里——一些驻在印度的外国人和印度本国人感到忧心忡忡，他们努力把污染的空气挡在家门外，也想避免把污染的空气吸进肺里。过去几周里，新闻媒体再次非正式地将新德里评为了世界上污染最严重的城市。但远在媒体重新对空气污染产生兴趣之前，他们的这番抗争就开始了。
One story by Gardiner Harris of The New York Times noted that for the first three weeks of this year, New Delhi’s average daily peak reading of fine particulate matter from one monitor was 473, more than twice as high as the average of 227 in Beijing.
《纽约时报》记者加德纳·哈里斯(Gardiner Harris)的一篇报道指出，检测仪显示，今年的头三周里，新德里细颗粒物的日平均峰值达到了473，是北京（平均值227）的两倍多。
The story also noted that many Indians seemed to be less concerned about the pollution compared to residents in Beijing. But instead of simply waiting for the winds to change, a pioneering few in Delhi have been willing to spend large sums or to risk embarrassment in their efforts to breathe clean air, employing air filters, indoor plants and imported masks.
文章还指出，与北京的居民相比，很多印度人似乎没那么关心污染问题。但新德里引领潮流的少数人，并没有干等着风向变换，他们为了呼吸到新鲜空气，愿意花大价钱或者冒出丑的风险，他们会使用空气过滤器、在室内放置植物并戴上进口的口罩。
Air pollution’s associated health risks have necessitated lifestyle changes the Chases, an American family of four who arrived in Delhi from Ethiopia about a year and a half ago.
空气污染带来的健康威胁，迫使蔡斯一家改变了生活方式，这个有四口人的美国家庭在大约一年半之前从埃塞俄比亚来到了新德里。
“As a parent, you are constantly weighing outdoor exercise against health concerns because of the air,” said Genevieve Chase, a public health professional. “We used to be an outdoors kind of family. Now we have to save that for our vacations.”
“作为家长，因为空气污染严重，你要不断地在户外运动和健康之间进行权衡，”公共卫生方面的专业人士吉纳维芙·蔡斯(Genevieve Chase)说。“我们过去经常进行户外活动。但现在，我们得在休假时才到室外活动。”
The Chases have installed top-of-the-line air purifiers in two rooms in their home, each costing around $1,400 and only available from a supplier in Mumbai called Samskara Wellness, which, incidentally, said via email that their sales have risen slightly in the past week because of the increased news coverage of air pollution, although almost exclusively among expat customers.
蔡斯一家在两个房间里安装了最好的空气净化器，每台净化器价格约为1400美元（约合8600元人民币），而且只有孟买一家名为桑卡拉保健(Samskara Wellness)的供应商提供这种产品。值得一提的是，这家供应商也在邮件中提到，由于有关空气污染的报道不断增加，他们的销售量在过去一周稍有增加，但顾客几乎全是驻印度的外国人。
Delhi’s exceptionally bad air means filters in the machines must be replaced at more than double the rate they would in, say, Geneva, where the machines are made, and upkeep costs could easily exceed $1,000 per year, said Ms. Chase. Nevertheless, she said that if her family chooses to stay in Delhi, they would buy more.
蔡斯表示，新德里的空气状况极其恶劣，净化器中滤芯的更换频率是其产地日内瓦的两倍多，每年的保养费很容易超过1000美元。尽管如此，她表示，如果他们选择留在新德里，他们还会购买更多净化器。
Outside, the Chases have tried to protect themselves by wearing masks to cover their mouths – a practice widespread in East Asia — but the masks are hard to find in stores and wearing them draws unwanted attention.
在室外的时候，蔡斯家的人为了保护自己，会带上口罩遮住口部，这是东亚地区的普遍做法。但在商店里很难买到这种口罩，而且戴着口罩会引起不必要的关注。
Annabelle Chase, 11, said her mother had gotten her to wear a mask specially brought from the United States, but once she reached school, her friends exclaimed, “Oh my gosh, what happened?” Then they said she looked “like an alien” or “like she had a disease.”
今年11岁的安娜贝尔·蔡斯(Annabelle Chase)表示，她妈妈让她戴上了专门从美国带来的口罩。可她一到学校，朋友们就喊道，“我的天啊，这是怎么了？”然后，他们说她看起来“像是外星人”，要么就是“得病了”。
Ten minutes later, Annabelle swore never to don the mask again, or at least until the unlikely event that all her friends were wearing them, too.
过了十分钟，安娜贝尔就发誓再也不戴口罩了，或者至少要等到她的朋友们都戴上之后再戴，但那几乎是不可能的。
Barun Aggarwal, the director of BreatheEasy, a company that installs centralized air systems in homes and businesses, said he, too, wears a mask when he goes outside, despite the stares.
顺畅呼吸(BreatheEasy)是一家为家庭和企业安装中央空调系统的公司。该公司的主管巴伦·阿加沃尔(Barun Aggarwal)表示，尽管会招来异样的眼光，他外出的时候也会戴上口罩。
“People look at me and you can see they’re thinking ‘What’s wrong with him?’ rather than asking what’s wrong with the air,” said Mr. Aggarwal.
阿加沃尔说，“人们盯着我看时，能感觉到他们在想‘他是怎么回事？’而不是琢磨空气是怎么回事。”
As might be expected, Mr. Aggarwal recommended using an air filter at home, but he also said that placing plants that convert carbon dioxide to oxygen in rooms yields significant gains when coupled with air purifiers. He said small areca palms perform that conversion during the day and a plant called mother-in-law’s-tongue does so at night. Both are available at most nurseries.
正如所料，阿加沃尔推荐在家里使用空气过滤器，但他还表示，使用空气净化器的同时，再在房间里放置植物，将二氧化碳转化为氧气，还能带来更显著的效果。他说，小槟榔树会在白天制造氧气，而一种名为虎尾兰的植物会在晚间发挥作用。这两种植物在大多数苗圃中都能找到。
But stopgap solutions seem to provide as many headaches as clean breaths. The masks are largely unavailable and decidedly uncool. Mr. Aggarwal wants to arrange masks for Delhi’s police officers, for their own safety and so they might become role models, and Ms. Chase wants to do the same with the athletes at her children’s school. Neither initiative has made much headway.
但这些权宜之计带来的效果似乎与问题一样多。口罩很难买到，而且非常难看。阿加沃尔想为新德里的警察提供口罩，既可以保护他们自身的健康，也可以成为行为的榜样。蔡斯也希望为孩子学校里的运动员准备口罩。但两项计划都没有取得太多进展。
With air purifiers, the best require frequent filter replacements, are prohibitively expensive for most people, and besides, when those filters are thrown away, the particles trapped in them escape right back into the air, even if outside one’s home.
最高档的空气净化器需要经常更换滤芯，对于大多数人来说，费用高到咋舌。除此之外，滤芯扔掉的时候，里面的颗粒物会回到空气中，虽然是在屋外。
One of the most viable options for protecting Delhi residents’ lung health would be installing central ventilation and filtration systems – technology that already exists — in new homes and businesses, said Maija Virta, an independent indoor air quality consultant based in Bangalore.
在班加罗尔工作的室内空气质量独立顾问迈贾·维尔塔(Maija Virta)表示，保护新德里居民肺部健康的最可行的方法，是在新住所和新公司中安装中央通风、过滤系统，现在已经具备此类技术。
“These systems improve air quality up to 80 percent. The very least we should do is not make new buildings without them,” she said. “Architects should be educated on how to incorporate these things.”
“这些系统会将空气质量改善80%。至少我们不应该建造没有这些系统的新建筑，”她说。“建筑师应该受到相关教育，学习如何将它们融入设计中。”
But there is little, if any, push to incorporate such technology in current projects, which is in line with the general lack of concern about the pollution.
但很少有人——可以说完全没有——在尝试将此类技术用于目前的项目，这跟人们对污染普遍缺乏关注的情况是一致的。
Preetha Rajaram, an environmental epidemiologist and mother of two daughters, moved back to India from the United States three years ago and has since invested in air purifiers at home. But she was amazed at how few of her Indian colleagues seem bothered by the air.
环境流行病学家普里塔·拉贾兰(Preetha Rajaram)有两个女儿，她三年前从美国回到印度，之后便开始花钱在家里安装空气净化器。但她的印度同事中似乎很少有人因为空气问题而感到烦恼，这让她非常吃惊。
“Sure, there are plenty of things competing to bother you here,” she said. “Perhaps if you’ve only been here though, then you don’t necessarily know that this isn’t the way that things should be.”
“当然，在这里，有很多事情让人烦恼，”她说。“或许你一直以来都待在这个地方，你不一定知道事情不应该是这样。”
Ms. Rajaram says she and her husband are increasingly convinced that Delhi’s air is responsible for exacerbating one daughter’s asthma, and giving the other tonsillitis and inflamed adenoids, which has meant she can only breathe out of her mouth.
拉贾兰表示，她和丈夫愈发坚信，是新德里的空气致使一个女儿的哮喘病恶化，另一个女儿的扁条体和淋巴组织发炎，这意味着她只能通过嘴呼吸。
Mr. Aggarwal does his part to raise the alarm among Delhi residents over pollution’s hazards, often giving presentations at schools and conferences, but he lamented the apathy he encountered.
阿加沃尔努力引起新德里居民对污染危害的警觉，经常到学校里和研讨会上发表演讲，但人们漠不关心，他感到非常失望。