The governor and his family were easy to spot on the shimmering Jersey Shore, amid 10 miles of a state beach closed by a budget standoff, even from 1,000 feet above.
即使是从一千英尺（约合304米）的高空，州长一家在波光粼粼的泽西海滩上还是很容易被发现——这个10英里（约合16千米）长的州属海滩因预算僵局被关闭。
Andy Mills, a 6-foot-3-inch photographer for The Star Ledger, dangled his frame out of a Cessna 152 two-seater and aimed his long lens at what initially looked like just dots on the sand. Following a hunch that with an empty Sunday morning schedule, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie might be indulging in some private holiday weekend sun on a beach he had ordered closed, Mills fired away.
安迪·米尔斯(Andy Mills)是《明星纪事报》(The Star Ledger)的摄影师，身高6英尺3英里（约合1.9米）的他悬吊在塞斯纳152双座直升机之外，把长镜头对准乍看上去只是沙滩上的小黑点的东西。米尔斯有一种预感：新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)周日上午没有日程安排，他可能正在自己下令关闭的海滩上享受私人度假周末，所以米尔斯开始行动了。
The hunch paid off.
他的直觉没错。
“As we came back up, I’m looking, I’m like, that’s him, there’s no doubt in my mind that’s him,” Mills said. He peered through his 400-millimeter lens and saw Christie looking right back at him. “When you make eye contact with someone, both you know and he knows what’s going on.”
“飞机兜回来之后，我看着他，心想，那是他，我毫不怀疑是他，”米尔斯说。他透过400毫米镜头，看见克里斯蒂向他回望。“当你和某个人四目相对的时候，你和他都知道发生了什么。”
Christie has been adamant that the use of the beach house was his right as governor, and that he was not going to cancel weeks of planning because of the shutdown.
克里斯蒂坚称，使用那个海滨别墅是他作为州长的权利，他不会因为海滩关闭而取消数周前制定的计划。
But it was yet another self-inflicted indignity, exposed by the media, for a governor who long dreamed of the dignified office of the presidency. In 2011, photos published by The Star Ledger caught him using a state helicopter paid for by taxpayers to attend his son’s baseball game. Television cameras recorded him in awkward celebrations in 2015 with Jerry Jones, the owner of the often despised Dallas Cowboys, Christie’s pale red sweater standing out in the luxury box surroundings.
但这位对总统高位觊觎已久的州长曾不止一次被媒体曝出过自取其辱的行为。2011年，《明星纪事报》发布的照片显示，他乘坐费用由纳税人支付的州政府飞机去参加儿子的棒球赛。2015年，电视机镜头记录了他和备受轻视的达拉斯牛仔队(Dallas Cowboys)老板杰里·琼斯(Jerry Jones)一起庆祝球队得分的尴尬情形，身穿淡红色毛衣的克里斯蒂在豪华包厢中显得格外醒目。
At the height of his popularity, when he was celebrated at home and nationally as one of the Republican Party’s brightest stars, Christie easily shrugged off these seemingly damaging episodes, rarely giving any credence to concerns about political optics. Armed with a quick, sharp tongue and a brash sense of humor, his “sit down and shut up” tongue lashings were often praised as authentic and tough.
人气最旺的时候，克里斯蒂在家乡乃至全国被视为共和党最亮眼的明星之一，自然可以不去理会这些似乎有损形象的插曲，关于他的政治画面引发的忧虑也极少让人觉得可信。他言词尖刻，有一种自大的幽默感，人们常常夸赞说，开口就能让人闭嘴的他既率真又难搞。
But now, battered by the George Washington Bridge scandal, a disastrous presidential bid and the lowest approval rating of any governor in state history, Christie’s continued reliance on biting, defensive humor is less endearing and more enraging.
但现在，克里斯蒂因乔治华盛顿大桥(George Washington Bridge)丑闻、灾难性的总统竞选以及比该州历任前州长都低的支持率而屡受打击，他一直以来依赖的那种辛辣的自我防卫式幽默变得不那么讨人喜欢，反而更加令人恼火。
“His rise to national prominence was that he had this reputation as a fighter, and that when he was fighting he was on the side of the Everyman and the New Jersey taxpayer against the status quo,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist and former senior adviser to Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign. “I think the danger of the photos is that it undermines that.”
“他以前之所以能在全国范围内崭露头角，是因为他有着斗士的名声，而且当他战斗的时候，是站在普通人和新泽西纳税人的一边，对抗现状，”共和党策略师、曾给米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)当过总统竞选活动高级顾问的凯文·马登(Kevin Madden) 说。“我认为这些照片的危险之处在于动摇了这种形象的根基。”
And referring to his approval ratings, Madden noted, “When you are at 15 percent, you are stripped of your political capital.”
马登在提到克里斯蒂的满意度评分时指出，“如果你的满意度只有15%，你就失去了政治资本。”
As a firestorm erupted over the beach photos, the governor’s office said that Christie had been planning “for weeks” to use the Shore house and that out-of-state relatives were visiting for the Fourth of July weekend.
这些海滩照片引发了一场风暴，州长办公室表示，克里斯蒂之前“数周”便已筹划使用那个海滨别墅，让他在其他州的亲戚来这里共度国庆节周末。
Still, the images of him enjoying an empty beach, which was empty because the state government was forced to shut down partly over his refusal to compromise, further infuriated his constituents, who were caught off guard on a holiday weekend and whose plans were upended.
不过，他享受空荡荡的海滩的照片进一步惹怒了选民——州政府被迫关闭，部分原因正是由于他拒绝妥协——在这个假日的周末，他们措手不及，只得取消原定的计划。 
The pictures drew immediate ridicule, both from friends and enemies.
这些照片立刻引起他的朋友和敌人的嘲弄。
“It’s beyond words,” said Christie’s lieutenant governor, Kim Guadagno, who is also running to replace him. “If I were governor, I sure wouldn’t be sitting on the beach if taxpayers didn’t have access to state beaches. We need to end the shutdown now. It’s hurting small businesses and ordinary New Jerseyans.”
“真是让人无语，”新泽西州副州长基姆·瓜达尼奥(Kim Guadagno)说。他正在努力取代克里斯蒂的位置。“如果我是州长，如果纳税人不能使用州立海滩，我肯定不会坐在它上面。我们现在就应该停止关闭海滩。它正在伤害小公司和普通新泽西人。”