From classifieds to display ads to subscriptions, the digital age has broken the financial pillars of print journalism, leaving the industry struggling to stand on its own.
从分类广告，到显示广告，再到订阅广告，数字时代已经打断了平面新闻媒体的资金支柱，让该行业陷入挣扎求存的境地。
But more frequently — and with a boom last week, when Jeffrey P. Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, bought The Washington Post — the tycoons who have led the digital revolution are giving traditional print outlets a hand.
不过，领导数字革命的企业巨头正在伸手挽救传统的平面新闻媒体，这种趋势越来越常见，而Amazon.com的创始人杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)于上周买下《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)，则让这股趋势达到了一个高峰。
Call it a sense of obligation. Or responsibility. Or maybe there is even a twinge of guilt. Helping print journalism adapt to a changed era is becoming a cause de jour among the technology elite.
你可以把这种收购称为义务。或者责任。或者，也许这里面甚至还掺杂了一丝愧疚。帮助平面新闻媒体适应一个已经变化的时代，正成为科技精英们的最新追求。
Google, which has been criticized for profiting from news content created by others, began financing journalism fellowships for eight people this year. The founder of Craigslist, the free listing service that helped ruin newspapers’ classified advertising, helped finance a book on ethics for journalists.
今年，因为靠其他媒体打造的新闻内容获利而受到指责的谷歌(Google)，开始设立一项有八个名额的新闻报道奖学金。在报纸分类广告的覆灭中出了不少力的免费分类广告服务公司Craigslist，其创始人出手赞助了一本关于记者伦理的著作。
A co-founder of Facebook, the social network many young people rely on for news, recently bought New Republic magazine, and the founder of eBay, another classified ad killer, started an online news service in Hawaii. Steven P. Jobs, the former Apple chief executive, went out of his way to advise newspapers how to adapt their products for the tablet era.
许多年轻人赖以获得新闻的社交网站Facebook的一位共同创始人最近买下了《新共和》杂志(New Republic)，另一名分类广告杀手eBay的创始人在夏威夷开办了在线新闻服务。而苹果(Apple)前首席执行官史蒂芬·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)则不辞辛苦地为报纸该如何让自己的产品适应平板电脑时代出谋划策。
“So ironic,” Les Hinton, a former publisher of The Wall Street Journal, wrote in a Twitter post last week about Mr. Bezos, that The Washington Post “should be consumed by a pioneer of the industry that almost destroyed it.”
上周，《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)前出版人莱斯·欣顿(Les Hinton)在关于贝佐斯的一条Twitter发帖中写道，《华盛顿邮报》“竟然被几乎毁灭它的那个行业的先锋吃掉，多讽刺。”
Technology industry leaders, who “deal in fact and code,” are supporting the press because they value it, said Merrill Brown, director of the School of Communication and Media at Montclair State University and the former editor in chief of MSNBC.com.
MSNBC.com前主编、蒙特克莱尔州立大学(Montclair State University)传播和媒体学院院长梅里尔·布朗(Merrill Brown)说，“靠事实和代码做买卖”的科技行业领袖支持媒体是看重它们的价值。
“They’re concerned about where the country is going and share a commonly held point of view that what we do is important for democracy,” said Mr. Brown, who is also a partner at the venture capital firm DFJ Frontier.
布朗说，“他们关注国家的走向，而且持有一个普遍的观点，那就是我们的所作所为对民主制度至关重要。”布朗同时还是风险投资公司德丰杰投资公司(DFJ Frontier)的合伙人。
This union of the press and digital patrons is sometimes awkward. For starters, tech moguls seem to do their best to stay as far away as possible from the news media’s prying questions. Mr. Jobs was famously prickly around the press, while Mr. Bezos has shunned all interviews about his purchase of The Washington Post except for one — with The Washington Post.
这种新闻业和数字赞助人的联盟有时处境尴尬。首先，科技大亨似乎在竭尽所能地远离新闻媒体的刺探性问题。乔布斯以爱对新闻媒体动怒而闻名，而贝佐斯则推掉了关于他收购《华盛顿邮报》的所有采访，只接受了《华盛顿邮报》对他的采访。
Technology’s helping hand has mostly been extended to newspapers and magazines. And some tech-focused companies, like Yahoo, have long been involved in the news business, hiring their own reporters and editors, setting themselves up as direct competitors to traditional news outlets.
科技公司的援手大多伸向报纸和杂志。长期以来，雅虎(Yahoo)等一些把重心放在科技上的公司一直都在涉足新闻行业，这些公司有自己的记者和编辑，把自己设定为传统新闻机构的直接竞争者。
On the business side of newspapers, executives have done little to hide their suspicions about the technology companies that are reaching out. Several years ago, while Mr. Hinton was publisher of The Wall Street Journal, he described Google as a “vampire” sucking the blood from newspapers because of how it aggregated news articles on its Google News site.
在报纸的经营层面，高管们几乎从不掩饰他们对科技公司的戒心，后者正在把手伸向平面新闻媒体。几年前，当欣顿还是《华尔街日报》的出版人时，他就因谷歌旗下的谷歌新闻网站搜罗了大量的新闻文章，而把谷歌形容为从报纸吸血的“吸血鬼”。
Frank A. Blethen, the publisher and chief executive of The Seattle Times, scoffed last week at the overtures Craig Newmark, the founder of Craigslist, had made to journalism causes. “He clearly disrupted classified advertising,” Mr. Blethen said. He added dismissively about Mr. Newmark’s efforts in journalism ethics, “and now he’s portraying himself in this public policy realm.”
《西雅图时报》(The Seattle Times)的出版人兼首席执行官弗兰克·A·布莱森(Frank A. Blethen)上周嘲讽了Craigslist的创始人克雷格·纽马克(Craig Newmark)向新闻界的示好。“很明显，是他破坏了分类广告，”布莱森说，他随后对纽马克在新闻伦理方面的努力表示不屑，“现在，他却在公共政策领域装腔作势。”
Many critics of the newspaper industry say its predicament is its own fault for allowing upstarts like Craigslist to outflank it with better methods for advertising automobiles, rental apartments and other merchandise.
许多批评新闻业的人士认为，该行业是自作自受，是它们自己让Craigslist这样的新兴企业将其打败，因为后者拥有更好的方法来给汽车和出租房等各种买卖打广告。
Mr. Newmark declined to comment on why newspaper officials blamed him. He said he supported journalism initiatives — media ethics and fact-checking are two pet causes — because he valued news he could trust. He said he was not even convinced that Craigslist had hurt newspaper classified advertising.
当被问及为何新闻界高管指责他时，纽马克拒绝置评。他表示，自己支持各种新闻项目，媒体伦理和事实核查是他热爱的两项事业，因为他很看重自己可以信任的新闻。他还称，他甚至都不太相信Craigslist损害了报纸分类广告。
“I’m still waiting to see any hard evidence for cause-and-effect,” Mr. Newmark said. “I’ve been paying attention for a long time.”
“我还没看到任何能证明这之间因果关系的确凿证据，”纽马克说，“我已经留意很长时间了。”
Mr. Newmark said he donated $42,000 to the Poynter Institute, a journalism school in St. Petersburg, Fla., to host a seminar related to a book Poynter recently published on journalism ethics and for the development of a related Web site.
纽马克称，他向位于佛罗里达州圣彼得斯堡的新闻学校波因特学院(Poynter Institute)捐献了4.2万美元，助其主办研讨会，探讨学院最近出版的一本关于新闻伦理的著作，并开发相关网站。
When the complaints about Google from newspaper executives reached their peak in 2009, Eric E. Schmidt, then the company’s chief executive, told an interviewer that Google had a “moral responsibility” to help the press because of its societal role of providing transparency.
2009年，新闻业高管对谷歌的抱怨达到顶峰。当时的谷歌首席执行官埃里克·E·施密特(Eric E. Schmidt)接受采访称，谷歌肩负着帮助新闻业的“道德责任”，因为该行业扮演了提供透明度的社会角色。
Since then, the search giant has been cozying up to journalists in a growing variety of ways, financing reports on the impact of the Internet on journalism, sponsoring journalism conferences and donating to press advocacy groups. Last week, it hosted TechRaking, an event on the use of data in reporting, at its Silicon Valley campus with the Center for Investigative Reporting.
自那以后，搜索领域的巨头谷歌一直在与新闻界套近乎，采用的手法越来越多样，包括资助互联网对新闻影响的相关报道、赞助新闻会议，并向新闻倡导团体捐款。上周，谷歌在其硅谷的总部与调查报道中心(Center for Investigative Reporting)联合主办了TechRaking大会，而该活动的主题即为在新闻报道中数据的使用。
Richard Gingras, senior director of news and social products at Google, said complaints from newspaper publishers in the past were based on a false belief that Google News was diverting traffic from their sites. He said relations between publishers and Google, which sends news sites about six billion visits a month, have improved steadily over time.
谷歌的新闻与社交产品高级主管理查德·金格拉斯(Richard Gingras)认为，报刊发行机构过去的抱怨基于的是一种错误的想法，即谷歌新闻让他们的网站失去了流量。他表示，随着时间的流逝，两者之间的关系稳步提升，现如今，谷歌每月给新闻网站带来约60亿次访问。
“These have been challenging times for traditional publishers,” Mr. Gingras said. “I think we’ve also come a long way in the sense of recognizing that we need to be more up front in how we speak to the industry.” 
“传统发行机构经历了艰难的时世，”金格拉斯说。“我想，我们也走了很长一段路才意识到，在与新闻业对话的时候，我们需要更坦率。”