WASHINGTON — After more than two decades trying but failing to forge a global pact to halt climate change, United Nations negotiators gathering in South America this week are expressing a new optimism that they may finally achieve the elusive deal.
华盛顿——经过20多年的尝试，各国仍未能达成一个全球性的协议来抵挡气候变化。本周，聚集在南美洲的联合国各成员国的谈判代表表达了一种新的乐观情绪，认为他们或许最终能够就这个艰难的协议达成一致。
But underlying that optimism is a grim reality: No matter the outcome of the talks, experts caution, it probably will not be enough to stave off the increasingly significant, near-term impact of global warming.
但是，这种乐观背后隐藏着一个残酷的现实：专家警告，不论谈判的结果如何，很可能都不足以延缓全球变暖带来的日益严重的近期影响。
For the next two weeks, thousands of diplomats from around the globe will gather in the desert metropolis of Lima, Peru, for a United Nations summit meeting to draft an agreement intended to stop the global rise of planet-warming greenhouse gas pollution.
接下来两周，来自世界各地的数千外交官将在位于沙漠地带的秘鲁首都利马齐聚一堂，在联合国峰会上起草一份旨在遏制全球范围内温室气体污染加重的协议。
The meeting comes just weeks after a landmark announcement by President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China committing the world’s two largest carbon polluters to cuts in their emissions. United Nations negotiators say they believe that advancement could end a longstanding impasse in the climate talks, spurring other countries to sign similar commitments.
数周前，奥巴马总统与中国国家主席习近平刚刚达成了一项具有里程碑意义的协议，承诺世界上最大的两个碳排放国将实施减排。联合国谈判代表称，他们相信，这一进展或许会打破气候谈判中的长期僵局，促使其他国家做出类似的承诺。
But while scientists and climate-policy experts welcome the new momentum ahead of the Lima talks, they warn that it now may be impossible to prevent the temperature of the planet’s atmosphere from rising by 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. According to a large body of scientific research, that is the tipping point at which the world will be locked into a near-term future of drought, food and water shortages, melting ice sheets, shrinking glaciers, rising sea levels and widespread flooding — events that could harm the world’s population and economy.
不过，虽然科学家和气候政策专家对利马会议前的这个新进展表示欢迎，但是他们警告，全球大气升温2摄氏度的趋势如今或许已经无法逆转。大批科学研究认为，2摄氏度是一个转折点，意味着世界将必然在近期内陷入干旱、粮食和水源短缺、冰盖消融、冰川面积缩小、海平面上升，以及洪水泛滥的局面——这些现象可能对世界人口和经济造成伤害。
Recent reports show that there may be no way to prevent the planet’s temperature from rising, given the current level of greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere and the projected rate of emissions expected to continue before any new deal is carried out.
最近的报告表明，鉴于目前大气层中的温室气体水平及排放量的预期增长率将在任何新协议得以实施前保持原有趋势，我们可能没有办法来阻止全球温度的升高。
That fact is driving the urgency of the Lima talks, which are expected to produce a draft document, to be finalized over the next year and signed by world leaders in Paris in December 2015.
这一事实加剧了利马谈判的紧迫性。按照计划，这次会议将产生一份草案文件，并在接下来的一年时间里完善，最终于2015年12月在巴黎由世界各国的领导人签署。
While a breach of the 3.6 degree threshold appears inevitable, scientists say that United Nations negotiators should not give up on their efforts to cut emissions. At stake now, they say, is the difference between a newly unpleasant world and an uninhabitable one.
虽然突破2摄氏度的限制看来是不可避免的，但科学家们表示，联合国的谈判人员不应该放弃减排努力。他们表示，这将决定，未来世界究竟是令人不适，还是根本不适宜居住。
“I was encouraged by the U.S.-China agreement,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton University and a member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a global body of scientists that produces regular reports on the state of climate science. But he expressed doubts that the threshold rise in global temperature could be prevented.
普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)的地球科学及国际事务教授、联合国政府间气候变化专门委员会(United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)成员迈克尔·奥本海默(Michael Oppenheimer)说，“中美协议让我倍受鼓舞。”然而，他对能否将全球气温上升范围控制在2摄氏度内表示怀疑。他所在的委员会由各国科学家组成，定期就气候科学的进展发表报告。
“What’s already baked in are substantial changes to ecosystems, large-scale transformations,” Mr. Oppenheimer said. He cited losses of coral reef systems and ice sheets, and lowering crop yields.
奥本海默表示，“生态系统已经注定要发生巨大变化，是大规模的转变。”他援引的例子包括珊瑚礁生态系统和冰盖的萎缩，以及粮食产量的减少。