The Chinese are still coming, and so are the investors.
赴美上市的中国公司热情不减，投资者也是如此。
Despite signs that the fervor for initial public offerings might be waning a bit, shares of Weibo, the Twitter-like Chinese microblogging service, surged 19 percent in their first day of trading on Thursday. And another Chinese company, the real estate website Leju, enjoyed nearly as big a pop.
尽管一些迹象显示，IPO市场的热度可能有所降温，但周四，新浪微博——中国与Twitter类似的微博服务平台——上市首日涨了19%。而另一家中国公司、房地产信息网站乐居的股价几乎出现了同样幅度的上涨。
The warm welcomes come ahead of the expected debuts of even bigger Chinese Internet players — particularly the Alibaba Group, the online marketplace that is part eBay, part Amazon.com and wholly dominant in that country. The company is expected to file for an I.P.O. as soon as next week; it is expected to be one of the world’s biggest since Facebook raised $16 billion two years ago.
上述股票受到投资者的热情欢迎之后，预计股市还将迎来一些更大的中国互联网公司——尤其是阿里巴巴集团，这家在线商城同时涵盖了eBay和亚马逊(Amazon)的业务类型，在中国互联网行业遥遥领先。预计该公司最早将于下周提交IPO申请；这或将成为Facebook两年前募资160亿美元（约合995.6亿元人民币）之后，世界上规模最大的IPO之一。
Also on deck is JD.com, a smaller online retailer allied with another of China’s online behemoths, the video game and messaging company Tencent.
即将上市的还有京东商城，这个规模稍小的网络零售商已经与中国的另一家网络巨头——网络游戏和即时通讯服务公司腾讯结成联盟。
“The strong post-I.P.O. trading in Weibo is a good indication of investor interest in Chinese Internet properties,” Kathleen S. Smith, a principal at Renaissance Capital, wrote in an email.
复兴资本(Renaissance Capital)的主管卡特勒恩·S·史密斯(Kathleen S. Smith)在一封邮件中说，“新浪微博上市首日的强劲表现很好地证明了投资者对中国互联网资产的兴趣。”
Behind the interest from investors is a simple fact: The Chinese Internet is huge, with potential to grow. About 618 million people use the Internet in that country, or nearly twice the population of the United States, according to the China Internet Network Information Center.
投资者的热情的背后是一个简单的事实：中国互联网规模庞大，且拥有增长潜力。根据中国互联网络信息中心(China Internet Network Information Center)的数据，在中国约6.18亿人使用互联网，这个数字几乎是美国人口的两倍。
Yet just less than 46 percent of Chinese are online, compared with an estimated 85 percent of American adults. In other words, huge swaths of the country remain untapped by business.
然而，中国的网民比例还不到46%，相比之下，美国成人的网民比例约为85%。换句话说，中国还有大片商业开发的空间。
The companies that have managed to claim online beachheads, particularly Alibaba, Tencent and the search engine Baidu, have demonstrated astonishing growth. Tencent, which is already public, posted a 38 percent rise in revenue last year. Baidu, which trades on the Nasdaq stock market, reported a 43 percent jump in sales.
已在互联网领域立足的企业呈现了惊人的增长，尤其是阿里巴巴、腾讯和搜索引擎百度。已经上市的腾讯公司去年录得了38%的营收增长。在纳斯达克(Nasdaq)上市的百度的销售额则上涨了43%。
Alibaba shows even more promise. Earlier this week, the company disclosed a 66 percent gain in revenue for the fourth quarter, the most recent period of exceptional growth.
阿里巴巴显示出了更大的潜力。该公司本周早些时披露，去年第四季度的营收增长了66%。这是证明该公司强劲增长的最新数据。
Leju, which posts Chinese real estate listings online for the likes of Baidu, nearly doubled sales last year, to $335.4 million. Its shares rose 18.6 percent on Thursday.
乐居公司与百度等网站合作，在网上发布中国房地产信息。该公司去年的销售额几乎翻了一番，达3.354亿美元。其股价周四上涨了18.6%。
And Weibo, which like Twitter lets users post succinct messages, has shown strong expansion as well. Its revenue more than doubled last year, to $188.3 million.
而新浪微博也呈现出强势增长。新浪微博与Twitter类似，用户可以在上面发布简短信息。新浪微博的营收去年翻了一番还多，达到1.883亿美元。
The service was started five years ago by Sina, a big Chinese Internet portal, and has since become the biggest of the so-called Weibo services, with 143.8 million active users, about two-thirds the number for Twitter. And it has started to make small inroads into Western markets, offering a program in Apple’s and Google’s app stores.
新浪微博服务五年前由中国大型互联网门户网站新浪公司推出，此后成为最大的所谓微博服务提供商，拥有1.438亿活跃用户，这个数字是Twitter的三分之二。新浪微博已经开始小规模地进入西方市场，在苹果(Apple)和谷歌(Google)的应用商店推出了一款应用程序。
The company received a lift last year when Alibaba bought a minority stake, valuing it at $3.3 billion.
去年，阿里巴巴收购了其少量股份，对其估值为33亿美元，为该公司提供了助力。
But Weibo has also faced headwinds. Among the risk factors it listed in its prospectus was the possibility of harm by government censorship. And it has been battling Tencent’s popular WeChat messaging service.
但新浪微博也面临着一些挑战。该公司在招股说明书列举的风险因素包括，可能受到政府审查的不利影响。此外，它还与腾讯旗下广受欢迎的微信服务展开了激烈的竞争。
It also sought a public listing at a time when fervor for I.P.O.s appears to be waning somewhat. As investors began to fall out of love with fast-growing sectors like the Internet and biotechnology, many prospective I.P.O.s began to falter as well, sending indexes like the Nasdaq down sharply on some days.
新浪微博上市之际，IPO市场的热度看似正在减退。由于投资者开始对互联网和生物科技等快速增长的领域失去兴趣，许多IPO计划开始动摇，导致纳斯达克等股指在一些交易日大幅下跌。
An index of shares in newly public companies created by Renaissance Capital is down more than 1 percent so far this year.
复兴资本编制的衡量新股的指数今年迄今已下跌超过1%。
Weibo and several other market debutantes, including the travel technology company Sabre and the boutique investment bank Moelis & Company, responded this week by pricing their I.P.O.s at the low end of expectations or even below a given range, as well as by trimming the number of shares sold in the offering.
微博和另外几家其他新上市的公司，包括旅游技术服务公司Sabre以及精品投资银行美驰公司(Moelis & Company)，本周做出了回应：它们把IPO价格定在了预期区间的低端，甚至低于已给出的区间，同时减少了股票发行量。
On Wednesday night, for instance, Weibo priced its offering at $17 while cutting the number of shares offered by 16 percent.
例如，周三晚间，新浪微博把发行价定在了17美元，同时股票发行数量减少了16%。
The move helped all three companies. In addition to Weibo’s 19 percent gain, Sabre’s shares rose 4 percent on their first day of trading and those of Moelis were up 4 percent after two days of trading.
此举已使这三家公司获益。除了新浪微博19%的涨幅之外，Sabre上市首日上涨了4%，美驰公司在上市两天之后也上涨了4%。
Though Weibo ended Thursday with a market value of $3 billion, lower than Alibaba’s appraisal of the company, its chairman attributed the challenges to the environment rather than anything inherent in the business.
尽管新浪微博周四收盘时的市值为30亿美元，低于阿里巴巴对该公司的估值，该公司董事长把挑战归因于外部环境，而不是任何企业内部因素。
“I think it has been a tough market,” the chairman, Charles Chao, told Bloomberg TV on Thursday. “But on a relative basis, we’re having great results.”
董事长曹国伟周四告诉彭博电视台(Bloomberg Television)，“我认为市场环境很严峻。但相对来说，我们的成绩已经很不错了。”