The release of Apple’s new iPad Mini on Tuesday lacked the finesse of a typical Apple product release. It also lacked a lot of the pomp.
周二，苹果(Apple)发布新款iPad Mini的时候没有采用通常的精巧策略，也没有搞太多的排场。
The tablet went on sale on Apple’s online store early Tuesday morning. While customers can order the tablet online, they cannot walk into a store and pick one up. Customers must reserve the tablet online if they want to pick it up in an Apple retail store wherever it is available.
周二一早，这款平板电脑在苹果的网上商店开售。顾客虽然可以在线订购，但却不能直接去实体店选购。如果想去销售这款平板电脑的苹果零售店取货，消费者必须先在网上订购。
The quiet release of the second-generation iPad Mini stands in stark contrast to past releases of iPads and iPhones. Usually Apple loans new products to media outlets ahead of their release, and the reviews go live a few days before the release. The iPads and iPhones usually go on sale on a Friday so that early adopters have a full weekend to line up and buy the new gadgets.
第二代iPad Mini的低调上市与之前iPad和iPhone的发布场面形成了鲜明对比。通常来说，苹果在发售新品之前会把它们借给媒体机构。发售开始几天之前，相关测评就会出来。而且，iPad和iPhone通常都是在周五开售，好让那些想最先用上新品的人花整个周末的时间来排队购买。
But that is not the story for the new version of the iPad Mini. Apple issued a news release hours after media outlets discovered it had gone on sale online.
新款iPad Mini的发布却并非如此。媒体先发现这款产品已在线开售，几小时后，苹果才发出新闻稿。
“The response to iPad Air has been incredible, and we’re excited for customers to experience the new iPad mini with Retina display,” said Philip Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing, in the news release.
“iPad Air收到的反响非常好，我们也很激动，顾客将体验到配有Retina显示屏的新款iPad Mini，”苹果负责全球营销的高级副总裁菲利普·席勒(Philip Schiller)在新闻稿中说。
It has been evident that Apple was struggling to make enough iPad Mini tablets for the coming holiday season. Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said on the company’s recent earnings call that it was “unclear if we will have enough” of the devices this quarter. And some research firms that track components earlier predicted that the supply of the Mini would be constrained because of limited production of its Retina display.
很明显，苹果无法生产出足够多的iPad Mini来迎接即将到来的假日季。前不久，苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)曾在公司的营收电话会议上说，“尚不清楚我们能不能生产足够多的”设备来满足本季度的需求。早些时候，一些追踪零部件的研究公司预计，iPad Mini的供应会受到限制，因为苹果的Retina显示屏产量有限。
What this means in terms of Apple’s balance sheet this quarter is that sales of iPad Minis will largely depend on how many Apple can make, not just how many of the devices customers want to buy.
对苹果本季度的财务报表而言，这意味着iPad Mini的销量在很大程度上取决于苹果能生产多少，而不仅仅是消费者愿意买多少。