The Sina Corporation, one of China’s biggest Internet portals, is preparing an initial public offering in the United States for Weibo, its Twitter-like microblogging service, according to people close to the matter.
据了解此事的人士透露，中国数一数二的互联网门户新浪公司准备为旗下的微博业务在美国举行首次公开募股(IPO)。微博是类似Twitter的微博客业务。
The offering, which has not been formally announced, could raise up to $500 million later this year. Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse have been selected to underwrite the offering, according to the people close to the matter.
尚未正式公布的此次IPO将于今年晚些时候举行，筹资额可达5亿美元（约合30亿元人民币）。前述消息人士称，高盛(Goldman Sachs)和瑞信(Credit Suisse)已被选为此次IPO的承销商。
Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse declined to comment on Monday, and a Sina representative could not be reached for comment.
本周一，高盛和瑞信拒绝置评。记者试图请新浪的一名代表置评，但无法与其取得联系。
Sina’s push to list one of its most popular units comes at a time when Chinese Internet companies are on a manic acquisition spree.
新浪推动其最热门业务部门上市之时，中国互联网公司正在掀起一场收购狂潮。
Over the last two years, China’s big three Internet companies — Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent — have spent several billion dollars acquiring Chinese start-ups and international online game companies. They have been buoyed by huge stockpiles of cash and soaring stock prices.
过去两年里，中国三大互联网公司阿里巴巴、百度和腾讯斥资数十亿美元收购了一些中国初创企业和国际网络游戏公司。巨大的现金储备和飙升的股价让这些公司振奋不已。
Later this year, two of China’s biggest e-commerce companies — Alibaba and JD.com — are expected to go public in the United States. The Alibaba offering, which has not been completed, could be the biggest stock offering in history, valuing the company at more than $100 billion.
今年晚些时候，中国的两家顶级电商——阿里巴巴和京东商城——预计会在美国上市。阿里巴巴尚未完成的上市计划可能会成为史上规模最大的上市计划，该计划对阿里巴巴的估值超过了1000亿美元。
The fortunes of Sina, which is an Internet portal much like Yahoo, rose several years ago when microblogging services became popular in China. Sina’s Weibo led the way, followed by Tencent’s own microblogging service.
对于与雅虎(Yahoo)很像的互联网门户新浪来说，机遇出现在几年之前，微博服务在中国流行起来的时候。新浪微博在这个领域一马当先，腾讯也跟着推出了自己的微博服务。
Last year, Alibaba paid $586 million to buy an 18 percent stake in Sina Weibo, valuing the company at $3.3 billion. The other 71 percent stake is held by Sina, which is based in Beijing.
去年，阿里巴巴斥资5.86亿美元收购了新浪微博18%的股份，当时对新浪微博的估值为33亿美元。总部位于北京的新浪持有71%的股份。
Some analysts project that Sina’s Weibo unit could be worth $5 billion, even more than its parent, which is listed on Nasdaq.
一些分析人士预计，新浪微博的价值可达50亿美元，甚至高于已在纳斯达克上市的母公司。
The popularity of Sina’s microblogging service has been undermined by government censorship and the spectacular rise of Tencent’s instant-messaging application, WeChat, or Weixin in Chinese. The WeChat service bears some resemblance to the American start-up WhatsApp, which Facebook just agreed to acquire for up to $19 billion.
因为政府审查，以及腾讯的即时通讯应用微信(WeChat)的异军突起，新浪微博的受欢迎程度受到了影响。微信服务与美国刚出现不久的WhatsApp有些类似。Facebook刚刚达成协议以高达190亿美元的价格收购WhatsApp。
Chinese Internet companies are Goliaths in their own right. Alibaba, which is privately owned, is valued at about $130 billion, and Tencent, which is listed in Hong Kong, is trading at close to $130 billion. The market value of Baidu, which is listed on Nasdaq, is $60 billion.
中国互联网企业本身都非常有实力。非上市企业阿里巴巴的估值约为1300亿美元，在香港上市的腾讯市值也接近1300亿美元。在纳斯达克上市的百度市值600亿美元。
Sina’s planned public offering for Weibo was reported on Monday by The Financial Times.
《金融时报》(The Financial Times)周一报道了新浪微博计划上市一事。