Sex after childbirth? In the weeks after a newborn’s arrival, it may seem as far-fetched as nightclubbing.
在生完孩子后做爱？新生儿到来的这几个星期里，做爱恐怕跟去泡夜店一样遥不可及。
Sexual problems are common among new parents, but discussing them with doctors or close friends is not. And studies of sexuality in the postpartum period have been limited, focusing mostly on the impact of physical changes or the resumption of intercourse. They also have been remarkably one-sided, surveying birth mothers but rarely their partners.
在新手父母里，性问题普遍存在，不过他们很少开口跟医生或密友谈论此事。关于产后性方面问题的研究非常少，而且大多数集中在身体变化带来的影响或性生活恢复上。这些研究通常都是极为单方面的，主要调查的是母亲一方，甚少涉及她们的伴侣。
Now new research from the University of Michigan offers a much more nuanced view of relationship dynamics in the so-called fourth trimester — and delivers a few surprises. For one thing, although new parents don’t crow about it on Facebook, plenty of them do steal time for intimacy between diaper changes early on.
现在，密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的新调查为所谓“后妊娠期”夫妻关系的活力提供了更为细致入微的视角。其中一个发现是，尽管新手父母并没有在Facebook上吹嘘这一点，但他们中有不少人确实趁着换尿布的间隙忙里偷闲，争取到了些亲密时光。
In online questionnaires, 114 partners of birth mothers were asked about factors influencing their desire and a range of sexual experiences. A third reported vaginal intercourse by six weeks after birth. Roughly the same percentage of birth mothers had received oral sex by then. Nearly 60 percent of their partners had received oral sex by six weeks.
114对产后的夫妇在线填写了问卷，回答影响个人性欲的因素和一系列性体验的问题。其中三分之一表示自己在孩子出生六周后就开始进行阴道性交。约同样比例的母亲也在同一时期接受了口交。而她们的伴侣中，近60%的人在六周后接受了口交。
Sari van Anders, lead author of the study and an assistant professor of psychology, women’s studies and neuroscience at the University of Michigan, cautioned since their sample was not random, “we might be getting more people who participated in our study who are more sexually open.”
该研究第一作者、密歇根大学心理学、女性研究和神经科学助理教授萨里·范安德斯(Sari van Anders)提醒说，由于取样并不是随机的，“参加我们研究的人可能在性方面更为开放。”
Resuming sex after childbirth can be complicated. Sascha Anderson, 30, who works for a Manhattan cheese shop, worried that sex would be painful or that her perpetual dehydration from breast-feeding would strip the act of pleasure. Those first months, she also felt a need to “overassert” her new title as a mom.
在生育后恢复性生活是件蛮复杂的事情。在曼哈顿的一家芝士店工作的30岁的萨莎·安德森(Sascha Anderson)担心做爱可能会带来疼痛，或者是哺乳导致的持久脱水可能会令整个过程索然无味。在生完孩子的头几个月，她还感觉到“过度表达”自己初为人母的角色的需要。
“You don’t want to let go of that role as a parent,” she said, adding that she seesawed between two kinds of self-reproach. “You can feel guilty abandoning your child for base desires” or “not engaging with your partner.”
“对于为人父母的角色，你不想松手，”她说，同时她也表示自己被两种类型的自责来回拉扯着：要么是“为了最原始的需求抛下自己的亲骨肉”，要么是“对自己的伴侣不够热情”。
New fathers, too, are in uncharted terrain. The Michigan study found that they may be the ones saying, “Not tonight, I’m exhausted.” The 114 partners, mostly men, reported low desire, primarily because of fatigue and stress.
新手爸爸们同样身处未知的领域。这项研究发现，他们也可能说“今晚不行，我累坏了。”这114对夫妻中，表示自己因为疲惫和压力而性欲低下的，绝大多数是男方。
Ms. Anderson’s husband, Michael, 29, said that stealing a moment to relax was a more urgent priority for both of them than sex. “I don’t know how we’d be able to do our jobs and take care of the baby without a bit of recuperative time,” he said.
安德森女士的丈夫——29岁的迈克尔说，对他们两人来说，相比做爱，偷空休息放到了更为紧迫的位置上。“如果没有点时间恢复元气，我想我俩都没办法既把工作做好，又照顾好孩子。”
In the study, high desire depended on the birth mother’s interest in being sexual and on how close her partner felt toward her.
在研究中，较高的性欲取决于女方对性的兴趣，以及她的伴侣是否感觉与她亲密如往昔。
After their daughter’s birth, when sex was off the table, Andrew Chin, 28, who works in information technology, said cuddling his wife, Dr. Kelly Palchik, a dentist, was their ritual. “Caressing her ears and her neck became really special,” he said. “You want to keep that intimacy.”
28岁的安德鲁·秦(Andrew Chin)是信息技术从业者，太太凯莉·帕尔齐克(Kelly Palchik)是一名牙医，他说，在女儿出生后，当没办法做爱时，搂抱着就成了他们间的固定仪式。“轻抚她的双眼和颈项，这真的成了一件很特殊的事情”，他说：“我希望能让彼此保持亲密。”
Couples often get a green light for penetrative sex at an ob-gyn appointment at four to six weeks. But that checkup assesses vaginal healing, not psychological readiness. Many couples leave the office without realizing there’s a new normal.
在产后四到六周前往妇产科进行复查时，夫妻们通常就能得到进行阴道性交的通行证了。但复查评估的只是阴道的复原程度，而非夫妻双方在心理上是否有所准备。很多人在走出诊室时，还未意识到这就是自己生活的新常态。
“The expectation is we should be returning to the quality of our sex and frequency before,” said Lori Brotto, the director of the University of British Columbia Sexual Health Laboratory in Vancouver. Altering those expectations is key to finding satisfaction again, she and other experts said.
“大家原本都指望着自己的性生活质量和频率能恢复到从前的水平，”温哥华英属哥伦比亚大学(University of British Columbia)性健康实验室主任洛莉·布鲁托(Lori Brotto)说。她和其他专家们都说，调整这类期望值对于夫妻们重新寻回床笫之欢十分关键。
Postnatal sexual problems are common, including vaginal dryness, loss of libido and painful intercourse called dyspareunia. “To say it’s a struggle in a lot of cases is an understatement,” Dr. Brotto said. “In some cases, it’s an outright disaster.”
产后女性出现性生活问题十分常见，其中包括阴道干涩、缺乏性欲以及性交疼痛。“在很多个案中，说她们在历经磨难，这还算是轻描淡写，”布鲁托说，“在有些病例中，那简直就是一场灾难。”
Enduring sexual difficulties after childbirth can be a taboo topic. One study found that health providers discussed contraception with 96 percent of women, but only 15 percent of those women voluntarily brought up sexual issues.
在生育后忍受性生活的种种不和谐，这算是禁忌话题。一项研究发现，卫生保健工作者会跟96%的女性谈到产后避孕这个话题，但其中只有15%的女性愿意主动提及性生活的问题。
Dr. Roya L. Rezaee, a co-director of the sexual health program at University Hospitals Case Medical Center in Cleveland, laments that ob-gyns typically discuss postpartum sexual health only when problems arise instead of helping to set expectations earlier and asking women about sexual function. “It rests on us to at least ask an open-ended question, just like we ask if they are incontinent or feeling depressed,” she said. Dr. Rezaee encourages her own patients to take a stepwise approach that doesn’t discount making out. “You can’t go from not doing those things to acts of sex,” she said. “You can’t go from changing a dirty diaper to penetration.”
大学医院凯斯医疗中心（University Hospitals Case Medical Center，位于克利夫兰）性健康项目联合协调人罗娅·L·瑞扎伊(Roya L. Rezaee)对妇产科医生往往只在问题出现后才谈及产后性健康这一现象深为惋惜，她认为应当帮助夫妇们及早订立性生活的期望值，并主动了解新妈妈们在性机能方面的问题。“我们的职责是起码要提出启发性的问题，比如可以去问她们是否出现失禁，或者觉得抑郁，”她说。瑞扎伊医生鼓励她的病人应该一步接一步来，首先别忽视耳鬓厮磨的意义。“你不可能这些都不做，一下子就开始恢复性行为，”她说：“不可能前一秒钟还在换尿布，后一秒钟就做起爱来了。”
After the birth of their son, Delondra Williams, 31, a screenwriter in Los Angeles, and her husband Nick, 33, who works for a nonprofit theater organization, had to be patient. She was in pain for months after tearing in labor. She also felt “touched out” with the baby constantly nursing.
31岁的迪隆德拉·威廉姆斯(Delondra Williams)是位编剧，丈夫尼克在一家非营利剧场组织工作，家住洛杉矶，在他们的儿子出生后，夫妻俩只能悠着点来。她在生产时产道撕裂，疼痛持续了好几个月，同时因为要不时给孩子哺乳，也让她觉得“被触杀出局”。
For the first three months, “my ‘sexual’ fantasy was for nobody to touch me,” she said. Though his interest had not flagged, Mr. Williams said he was in no rush and a little apprehensive: “It didn’t seem like an option for a while.”
在头三个月，“我的‘性’幻想就是不要有任何人碰到我的身体，”她说。尼克倒是兴致未减，但他说他并不想急着来，而且有点不安，“在短时间内，性看来不是我们的选项。”
The couple did start to have sporadic sex at three months, although it was often painful for Ms. Williams. Setting some rules helped stoke her desire; one was no touching of her breasts, which had grown to an H-cup to his delight, and her discomfort. They kept trying, and more than a year after delivery, “now sex is great,” she said.
夫妻俩在产后三个月时，终于恢复了一丁点性生活，不过迪隆德拉常常会觉得疼痛。制定规则有助于激发她的欲望；而其中一条是不许碰她的乳房，当时她已经升级为H罩杯，这让他很爽，而她却觉得很不舒服。他们不断尝试，一年多过去了，“现在我们的性生活很棒，”她说。
“Women need to know it’s O.K. to be gentle with themselves and be patient,” she said. “If you have open, honest intimacy, it will come back.”
“女人们应该知道，悉心呵护自己、凡事悠着点儿，这样做挺好的，”她说，“如果你们之间开诚布公，亲密无间，它总归会回来的。”