On the night of Aug. 10, when Turkey’s powerful prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, won the presidential elections that added five more years to his already 12-year-long reign, I had mixed feelings.
8月10日晚间，当权势强大的土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)赢得总统大选，得以在掌权12年后再获五年任期时，我的心里五味杂陈。
Here was a leader I had supported for years — both as a voter and a columnist — as he battled against Turkey’s authoritarian secularists, especially the coup-prone military, which had executed or imprisoned some of his predecessors.
这是我支持过很多年的一位领导人，作为选民和专栏作者都是如此。那时，他打击了土耳其的威权主义世俗派，特别是动辄发动政变的军方。土耳其军方曾处决或囚禁了埃尔多安的多名前任。
I still support Mr. Erdogan’s historic peace process with Kurdish separatists, which is likely to save Turkey from a decades-old bloody conflict. But in the past three years, I have become disillusioned with his growing authoritarianism.
我仍然支持埃尔多安与库尔德分离主义派别的历史性和平进程，因为这可能会让土耳其摆脱长达数十年的流血冲突。但过去三年，他日益抬头的独裁作风让我有幻灭感。
How we got here is an interesting story. The Justice and Development Party, or A.K.P., was born in 2001, under the leadership of both the defiant Mr. Erdogan and the more erudite and courteous outgoing president, Abdullah Gul.
这一路的转变是个很有意思的故事。正义与发展党（Justice and Development Party，简称AKP）创立于2001年，当时的领袖既包括桀骜不驯的埃尔多安，也包括如今即将离任的现任总统、更为博学有礼的阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)。
They both came to power in 2002, and initiated a widely praised era of political reform, economic progress and international outreach. Back then, I saw the party as a promising case study on the compatibility of Islam and political liberalism. But the story wasn’t over.
两人均于2002年开始掌权，并开启了一个专注于政治改革、经济进步和国际参与的广受赞誉的时代。我那时认为，AKP有望证明，伊斯兰主义可与政治自由主义兼容。但故事的发展却并非如此。
In 2007, Mr. Gul was elected president, which required him to drop his party affiliation. Since then, Mr. Erdogan has consolidated his own personal authority, marginalizing all other party figures and galvanizing a cult of personality around himself among the party’s base.
2007年，居尔当选总统，因此不得不放弃党内职务。从那时起，埃尔多安就一直在巩固个人权力，使党内所有其他重要人物边缘化，并在AKP的基础选民中掀起了对自己的个人崇拜。
Meanwhile, the A.K.P. has adopted a bluntly majoritarian notion of democracy, which venerates ballots but disregards civil liberties and press freedom.
与此同时，AKP选择了肤浅的多数主义民主。这一概念膜拜投票结果，却无视公民自由和新闻自由。
Mr. Gul, who still preserved the party’s founding principles, kept advising restraint and moderation to his old comrades. He opposed Turkey’s reckless support of Syrian opposition fighters and tried to keep channels with Egypt open despite the July 2013 coup. He opposed Mr. Erdogan’s crackdown on peaceful protesters, as well as his ban on Twitter.
居尔则依然坚持着该党的创立原则，经常建议老党员保持克制与温和。他反对土耳其不顾后果地支持叙利亚反对派武装，并试图与埃及保持沟通渠道，尽管2013年7月那里发生了政变。居尔还反对埃尔多安对和平抗议者的镇压，以及他封杀Twitter的决定。
That’s why some Turkish liberals, including me, who supported the A.K.P. in its early years, hoped that once Mr. Erdogan became president, Mr. Gul would return to party politics and become the new A.K.P. leader and prime minister.
正是因为上述原因，一些早年支持AKP的土耳其自由派人士，包括我在内，过去一直希望一旦埃尔多安当选总统，居尔可以重新参与党派政治活动，成为AKP的新领袖和土耳其总理。
We also hoped that Mr. Gul would restore and the liberal ideas of 2002-2007 and offer reconciliation to a deeply polarized society.
我们还希望，居尔将复兴2002年到2007年间提出的自由主义观点，让深度分化的土耳其社会走向和解。
But Mr. Erdogan had different plans for A.K.P. 2.0. After his presidential triumph earlier this month, he took calculated measures to make sure that Mr. Gul could not be re-elected as the party’s leader, despite the latter’s overwhelming popularity throughout Turkey and among the party’s rank and file.
然而，埃尔多安却对AKP的2.0版有着不同的打算。本月早些时候在大选中取胜之后，他精心谋划，确保居尔不能重新当选该党领袖，尽管后者在土耳其各地和AKP党内基层都拥有超高人气。
Mr. Erdogan also announced that the party’s three-term limit for holding office would remain valid. This means that in about one year, 70 founding members of the A.K.P. — including key figures like Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc and other moderates, who have occasionally dared to disagree with Mr. Erdogan — will disappear from the political scene.
埃尔多安还宣布，该党成员三届任期的上限仍然有效。这意味着在大约一年后，AKP的70名创始成员将从土耳其政坛销声匿迹。这其中包括一些重要人物，包括副总理布伦特·阿伦奇(Bulent Arinc)，以及敢于反驳埃尔多安的其他温和派人士。
The new A.K.P., Mr. Erdogan repeatedly declared, will rise on the shoulders of “youngsters,” who know that they owe their seats to the party’s boss and who will be very disciplined. As one of his advisers openly said, “Erdogan’s will” is going to be paramount. Mr. Erdogan’s supporters praise this ever-deepening concentration of power in the hands of one individual as the advance of democracy.
埃尔多安多次宣称，新的AKP将在“年轻人”的肩膀上崛起，而这些年轻人深知，自己的席位是党的领导人赋予的，他们将会非常自律。正如他的一位顾问公开所说的，“埃尔多安的意志”将是至高无上的。埃尔多安的支持者对这种不断深化的个人集权赞不绝口，认为这是民主的进步。
By this logic, because Mr. Erdogan wins elections, he represents “the nation,” and his dominance over all aspects of life — from media to universities — is the realization of “the national will.” Those who oppose Mr. Erdogan are seen as adversaries of the nation itself; they are branded as either traitors or spies, or at best “anti-democrats” who need to shut up.
根据这种逻辑，由于埃尔多安赢得了选举，他就代表了“国家”，他对方方面面的控制——从媒体到大学——是“国家意志”的体现。反对埃尔多安的人被视作国家的敌人；他们被贴上叛徒或特务的标签，或者至少被当做需要闭嘴的“反民主人士”。
Such a winner-takes-all democracy is likely to continue polarizing Turkish society, and there are very few obstacles left in front of Mr. Erdogan if he chooses to further consolidate his power.
这种赢者通吃的民主可能会令土耳其社会不断分化，如果埃尔多安打算进一步巩固自己的权力，他面前的阻碍已经不多了。