Growing up, I remember peeling myself off friends’ vinyl-covered couches and feeling lucky my house didn’t turn people into Colorforms characters. Now, with my furniture yielding to assaults from children, dogs and a cat, the big question is, where I can lay my hands on some vinyl?
我记得，从小到大，每当自己一边从朋友家的人造革沙发上奋力起身，一边就会在心里暗自感到幸运，因为我的家可没有把人变成Colorforms（一个60多年历史的玩具品牌，其经典产品为一块可将各类“角色”随意粘贴、撕下的背景画，玩家可以创造出不同的故事场景——译注）玩具里的角色。现在，随着我的家具不断受到孩子们和狗儿、猫儿们的攻击，我面临的最大问题是——沙发上的哪块人造革还能让我来搭手呢？
I understand that upholstery isn’t meant to be permanent. I’m just not ready to drop $700 on a new slipcover to replace the one that was supposed to keep our sofa budget at zero. Nor, as we enter the countdown for a party, do we have much time to stitch together something brilliant of our own to cover the couch and a pair of equally moribund chairs.
我明白，沙发并不是永恒不变的。我只是还没准备好，花掉700美元（约合人民币4287.29元）去换一套新的沙发套。我们本来就想沿用老沙发套，不在这上面多花一分钱。而且，派对已经进入倒计时，我们也没有足够时间为沙发一针一线缝制漂亮的套子，以及为那对死气沉沉的椅子更换新椅套了。
So with little time, money or vinyl on hand, I sought counsel from three upholstery specialists: Jessica Smith, professor of fibers at the Savannah College of Art and Design; Dabney McAvoy, owner of Dabney McAvoy Home, a store and design service in Great Barrington, Mass.; and Brooke Ulrich, owner of All Things Thrifty, a home-decorating blog.
在时间、预算和人造革面料都很有限的情况下，我从三位沙发专家那里寻求帮助：萨凡纳设计学院纺织系教授杰西卡·史密斯(Jessica Smith)；在马萨诸塞州的巴灵顿拥有一家自己的沙发装饰设计公司的达布尼·麦卡沃伊(Dabney McAvoy)；家庭装修博客“All Things Thrifty”的博主布鲁克·乌尔里希(Brooke Ulrich)。
With a mix of temporary and more permanent fixes, they said, homeowners can make their upholstery passably attractive without wasting entire weekends and paychecks. As a bonus, I found that do-it-yourself reupholstering isn’t too hard, as long as you follow a few basic tips and choose a good starter project to build some skills. More on that later.
这些专家们建议，通过将临时补救措施和更经久一些的修整进行混搭，无需耗费整个周末和大把支票，房主们也完全可以使自己的沙发焕然一新，魅力倍增。意外惊喜是，我发现自己动手（DIY，即“do it yourself”）重新修整沙发并没有那么难，只要你遵循一些基本技巧，并选择一个好的初始项目先练练手。然后就会很顺利了。
I started by approaching a chair that I bought nearly 20 years ago, and which now serves as a microfiber scratch-and-sniff catalog of all the things my children ate in the one place they weren’t allowed to. It’s unclear how many times they flipped the cushion to conceal their crimes, but I’ll set the over-under at 50.
我的改造工程从一把20年前买的椅子开始。这把椅子，现在都可以当成一个超细纤维制成的食品“目录”，擦一擦就能发出气味。而这“目录”里的食品，都是孩子们不许吃的东西。也不清楚他们掀起过多少次椅垫，来藏匿自己的“罪行”，但让我猜的话，起码不少于50次吧。
We’ve tried scrubbing it with various detergents and spot cleaners, only to be left with soap film surrounding the stains like bull’s-eyes. For such jobs, Ms. Ulrich suggested steam cleaning, which sounded to me like overkill. But a Hoover Spot Scrubber, a mini steam cleaner that sells for $80, seemed worth a try.
我们已经对它用过各种各样的去污剂和洗涤剂，均以失败告终，只在污点周围留下了一圈肥皂渍，就像公牛眼睛。对付这种难题，乌尔里希建议我用蒸汽清洗法。而对于我来说，这怕是“杀鸡用牛刀”了吧？不过，一台胡佛牌(Hoover)微型蒸汽清洁机的售价是80美元（合人民币489.98元），似乎值得一试。
Ms. Ulrich said to use it more than 24 hours before a gathering, to give fabrics time to dry, but mine needed more time because a faulty attachment spewed a cascade of cleaning solution onto the chair instead of steam.
乌尔里希还建议，至少在聚会之前24小时使用蒸汽清洁机，因为还要留出织物干燥的时间。但我的椅子还需要更多时间，因为我一不小心弄错一个配件，结果喷到椅子上的不是蒸汽，而是如瀑布般倾泻而出的清洗液。
It diminished most of the stains, at least, setting up Ms. Ulrich’s next strategy. “Put a cute little pillow on that chair, and people won’t notice anything else about it,” she said. “And put a throw blanket across the back, too.”
最后，这种方法洗掉了绝大部分污渍。接下来就该进入乌尔里希建议的下一个步骤了。“在椅子上放一个可爱的小坐垫，这样人们就不会再注意椅子上的其它地方了，”她说，“再在椅背上搭一张毯子。”
I picked up a $30 Ursula throw at Ikea and, to truly do this on the cheap, bought supplies to make my own pillow, including $8 worth of Benzy fabric, a $3 pillow stuffer and some iron-on fabric tape (Singer brand, $2). Ms. Ulrich suggested using Olfa 28-millimeter rotary cutters ($13) and an Olfa 12-by-18-inch cutting mat ($16), because, she said, precision cuts are crucial to making a good pillow.
我在宜家(Ikea)选了一个30美元（约合人民币183.74元）的乌苏拉(Ursula)靠垫，为了省钱，我还买了一些材料来制作坐垫，包括8美元的Benzy布料；3美元的枕头填充物，固定布料用的胶带（Singer牌，2美元）。乌尔里希建议使用Olfa牌的28毫米旋转刀片（13美元）和12×18英寸（约合30.48×45.72厘米）的Olfa牌切割垫（16美元，约合人民币98.00元）， 因为精确的剪裁对于做好一个垫子而言至关重要。
The cutters sliced the fabric with astonishing ease and exactitude, but I was a little more astonished at how they sliced my finger, three times, without my noticing. Luckily, the steam cleaner was still nearby to lift the crimson stain.
刀片非常好用，剪裁起布料来非常精准。但令我有点吃惊的是，不知不觉中我的手指被刀片划破了三次。幸好，蒸汽清洁机还在旁边，可以去除新染上的深红色污渍。
When I was done, the pillow looked surprisingly good, and the chair was passable.
大功告成后，坐垫看起来做得出乎意料地好，椅子的改造工程可以告一段落了。
Next came a dining room chair, which had a seat cushion that my wife had upholstered a few years ago and that was now badly stained. I eyed the leftover Ikea fabric, pulled out the staple gun (Arrow T50, $25) and, before I could do any real damage, reviewed Ms. Smith’s advice on reupholstering.
接下来轮到餐厅的椅子了。其中一把椅子的坐垫在几年前被我妻子重新捯饬过，可现在又变得污损不堪了。我看了一眼剩下的宜家布料，拿出一把订书机（Arrow T50，25美元，约合人民币153.12元），在我开始实质性的破坏行动之前，重新审视了一遍史密斯关于重新给椅子装垫子的建议。
The best piece: “Take your time getting the old fabric off, because you’ll need that to create a pattern for the new one,” she said.
最好的一条建议是：“耐心仔细地把旧布料取下来，因为你需要以此为模板，做一个新的出来。”她说。
I pulled off about five staples and another 20 nails that my wife had evidently resorted to after running out of staples, and used the old seat cover as a template. I then used a diagram from Ms. Ulrich’s site to plan the stapling.
我拔下了妻子当年钉上去的大约5颗订书钉和另外20颗钉子，才取下旧椅垫，并将它作为模板。然后，我用了乌尔里希网站上的一个图表，来设计安排新椅垫钉子的位置。
Unlike other upholstery jobs, this can be done solo, because you can pull the fabric tight with one hand and staple with the other. A tight fit is key to avoiding shoddy-looking ripples, my panelists said.
与其他类型的室内装饰工作不同，这项工作是可以独自完成的。因为你可以用一只手把布料拉紧，另一只手使用订书机。关键是要拉得足够紧，以避免看上去松松垮垮的，我的专家团如是说。
Then again, pulling too hard on the fabric can leave it in shreds. That’s less of a threat if the seat has rounded corners, like mine; for people with sharp-cornered seats, Ms. Ulrich suggested laying cotton batting over sharp edges first.
但是，如果把布料绷得太紧，又有把它撕裂的风险。如果椅子的四角是圆形的，就像我这把椅子这样，那么布料被撕裂的风险小一些；而对于那些要改造四角是尖的椅子的人来说，乌尔里希建议他们先用棉布包裹一下尖锐的边角。
After setting the fabric in place, I blasted 50 staples into the chair because more seemed better to me. But when I turned the chair upright, I saw that I’d pulled the fabric so tight it compressed the cushion noticeably — to the point where Luca, my youngest son, deemed it “a little weird looking.”
在把布料绷好之后，我在椅子上订了50颗订书钉，因为这样似乎更稳当。但当我把椅子翻过来，我才看到布料被绷得太紧了，令椅垫显得很突出，我的小儿子卢卡(Luca)认为“这样看上去怪怪的。”
But whatever. I had two upholstery-improvement jobs done in the span of a morning.
不管怎么说，我在短短一上午时间里就完成了两项改造工作。
The biggest hurdle lay ahead: the slipcover couch. This one required at least a week’s worth of planning to tackle properly.
最大的一项工程就在眼前了：沙发套改造。要想顺利完成这项工程，起码得花上一周时间，好好计划一下。
My first task was to visit the showroom of the manufacturer, Raymour and Flanigan, where a saleswoman whispered that I should check online before paying her “around $700” for a replacement slipcover. I did find one for a better price: $699.
我的第一项任务是拜访制造商的样品陈列室，在Raymour和Flanigan这两个品牌的制造商那里，女销售员小声建议我，在付给她“大约700美元”（约合人民币4287.29元）买一个替代沙发套之前，应该先上网查一查价格。我的确上网查到了一个更好的价格：699美元。
Next, at Ms. McAvoy’s suggestion, I asked a saleswoman at a local fabric shop if she might know someone willing to stitch one for me. She said yes, but that it would probably cost around $500, not including roughly $200 for the fabric.
接下来，按照麦卡沃伊的建议，我请当地一家布料商店的女销售员帮忙打听，是否有人愿意为我缝制一个沙发套子。她回答说有，但工钱大约要500美元，这还不含200美元的布料钱。
Ms. McAvoy said that if you live in a bigger city and have time to wait, you could most likely find someone willing to sew a slipcover for less.
麦卡沃伊说，如果你住在一个稍大一些的城市，又有时间等待，你应该能以更便宜的价格找到人，帮你缝制一个沙发套。
“Or, if you want something last minute and you have some fabulous fabric, just throw it over and tuck here and there, and it’ll look great,” she said. “It has a casual look, but a little more modern and updated.”
“或者，如果你的时间紧迫，但手上有一些非常漂亮的布料，那么只需要把它随意扔在沙发上，在边角上掖一掖，看上去就很棒啦！”她说，“这样的布置看上去很随意，漫不经心间透露着几分现代和时髦。”
Ms. Ulrich agreed, and said that you can slip PVC piping deep in the couch’s seams to keep the fabric in place.
对此，乌尔里希表示赞同。她说，你可以把人造革面料深深塞入沙发靠背的缝隙中，这样就能在短时间内固定面料了。
I tried this with the biggest, least-expensive piece of fabric I could find: a $20 Ritva curtain set from Ikea with two panels measuring 57 by 98 inches. It wasn’t even close to big enough.
我找来了最大、最便宜的布料打算试一试：57×98英寸（约合144.78×248.92厘米）的两块从宜家买来的20美元（约合人民币122.49元）的Ritva窗帘布。但这样的尺寸远远不够大。
With three sets of curtains, sewing skills and some courage, I might have given it a shot. Lacking all three, I hustled for alternatives.
如果有三块窗帘布，一流的缝纫手艺和一些鼓励，我似乎还可以放手一搏；但目前，在这三样中我一样都不沾，于是赶紧另寻它法。
Two decent ones emerged. The first was SureFit, which sells elasticized fabric slipcovers for living room furniture. I tried a pair of two-piece slipcovers for the sofa, a Stretch Suede and a Stretch Pique, each $130.
两个很不错的替代品出现了。首先是SureFit（美国家居纺织品销售商——译注），它销售供起居室家具用的弹性沙发套或椅套面料。我挑选了一对两片装沙发套，一个是弹力麂皮绒面料，一个是弹力提花面料，每个130美元（约合人民币796.21元）。
The covers conformed easily to my sofa’s dimensions, but with our fat, slightly lumpy pillow cushions, the snug fit looked bad. If I’d had more tightly stuffed cushions, or maybe if we didn’t have a sofa with a pillow back, it would have worked well. As it was, the sofa was a good fit for the playroom.
坐垫套倒是很合尺寸；但对于我们那些胖胖的粗笨靠垫而言，套子就完全不合适了，紧巴巴的看上去很糟糕。如果我的靠垫填充物更加紧实，或者我们的沙发干脆不用靠枕，那该多好。不过正因为有靠垫，这座沙发真是很适合游戏室。
The last option was a heavy cotton slipcover from Contourelle.com. I ordered the Arizona model ($180), a semitailored single-piece slipcover big enough that I could tuck it in for a good fit. The heavy fabric concealed our couch’s lumps, and a couple of inexpensive pillows from Ikea nicely disguised the fact that this was an emergency fix costing roughly $200.
我的最后一个选择，是从Contourelle.com购买一只厚重的棉质沙发套。我订购了Arizona这款（180美元，约合人民币1102.45元），这个半订制的单件沙发套应该足够大了。厚重的面料掩盖了我们沙发上臃肿的靠垫；从宜家买来的一对便宜靠枕，则很好地掩饰了这只是我临时紧急整修出来的事实。这次大修，大约的花费是200美元（约合人民币1224.94元）。
I had what looked like a new couch, a passable chair and an O.K. seat, all for around $250.
现在，我有了一座看上去像新的一样的沙发，一把还算过得去的椅子和一把还可以的餐椅，共花费大约250美元（约合人民币1531.18元）。
Sadly for my children, the Colorforms solution may now be permanently off the table. But weird upholstery? Definitely more of that coming down the pike.
可惜啊，对于我的孩子们，Colorforms式的玩法再也回不来了。但是怪异的室内装饰呢？当然还会与日俱增的。