HOBOKEN, N.J. — A commuter train crashed into one of the busiest train stations in the New York area during the morning rush on Thursday, killing at least one person, injuring more than 100 others and creating a scene of chaos and destruction, authorities and witnesses said.
新泽西州霍博肯——当局和目击者称，周四早高峰期间，一辆通勤列车冲进一座火车站，造成至少一人死亡，上百人受伤，场面混乱，破坏严重。发生事故的地方是纽约地区最繁忙的火车站之一。
The crash occurred around 8:45 a.m., when a commuter train traveling at a high rate of speed barreled through the barriers meant to stop it and finally stopped against a wall of the Hoboken Terminal building, officials said.
官方称，事故发生在上午8点45分左右。当时，一列飞速行驶的通勤火车穿过用来阻拦它的重重障碍物，最终在撞上霍博肯终点站大楼的一堵墙后停了下来。
The impact jolted commuters on the crowded four-passenger-car train and sent part of the terminal’s structure that covered the tracks tumbling down onto the platform.
这列火车有四节客运车厢，颇为拥挤。冲击力撞击着车上的通勤族，并导致站内轨道上方的部分建筑坍塌在站台上。
One person standing on the platform was killed by falling debris, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said at a news conference on Thursday afternoon near the train station. The victim was identified by the New Jersey Medical Examiner’s office as Fabiola Bittar de Kroon, 34, of Hoboken.
新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)周四下午在火车站附近举行的新闻发布会上表示，事发时立在站台上的一个人被掉下的碎片砸中身亡。新泽西州法医办公室称，这名遇害者是34岁的霍博肯人法比奥拉·比塔尔·德克龙(Fabiola Bittar de Kroon)。
“An extraordinary tragedy,” Christie said, flanked by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and transportation officials. In total, at least 108 people were injured in the crash, Christie said.
“一场特大悲剧，”克里斯蒂说。他身旁站着纽约州州长安德鲁·M·库默(Andrew M. Cuomo)和交通官员。克里斯蒂称，事故中共有至少108人受伤。
Michael Larson, a New Jersey Transit worker, was in the station when the train crashed. He said he crawled on his hands and knees to pull people out of the first train car. Videos and photographs show the front of the train stopped beyond the tracks inside the station amid a jumble of mangled metal and hanging wires.
事故发生时，新泽西公共交通系统(New Jersey Transit)的员工迈克尔·拉森(Michael Larson)正在火车站里。他说自己匍匐在地上，把乘客从第一节车厢里拉出来。视频和照片显示车头停在站内远离轨道的地方，四周是被毁的金属和悬着的电线，一片狼藉。
“The first car was pretty well destroyed,” Larson said. “The whole roof was caved in. The seats were broken.”
“第一节车厢受损严重，”拉森说。“车顶全部塌陷，座位断裂。”
Rail service was suspended into and out of the station Local buses and ferries began accepting New Jersey train tickets as a result of the crash, but ferry service to New York City from Hoboken was shut down at midday, Cuomo said.
进出该站的铁路运输暂停。因为这起事故，当地的巴士和渡轮开始接受新泽西的火车票，但库默表示，中午时分，从霍博肯到纽约城的渡轮服务关闭。
Hoboken, which sits along the Hudson River, is a busy transit hub for both New Jersey Transit and PATH, the rail line that travels to Manhattan. PATH train service was suspended after the crash, but was restored by the Thursday afternoon rush.
对新泽西公共交通系统和通往曼哈顿的铁路线纽新捷运(PATH)来说，坐落在哈德逊河岸的霍博肯是一个繁忙的交通枢纽。纽新捷运的服务在事故发生后中断，但到周四晚高峰时已得到恢复。