ROME — ITALY has long suffered from inertia, its individual vitality smothered by the bureaucracy and opacity of the state. Italians are rich, prudent savers. Their state is poor, profligate and inefficient. For 30 years now, since I was a correspondent in Italy, I have watched the country deploy its ingenuity to evade modernization, culminating in the orgy of baroque escapism known as the Berlusconi years.
罗马——意大利长期以来一直如同死水一潭，个体的活力被官僚主义和政府的不透明所扼杀。意大利人富有，却谨小慎微地存钱。他们的政府一穷二白，却恣意挥霍，效率低下。我30年前在意大利做过记者，从那时起，我眼看着这个国家把聪明才智用在了避开现代化上，并且在贝卢斯科尼当政的那些年里，把巴洛克式的逃避现实的放纵发挥到了极致。
So it was with some astonishment that I found Prime Minister Matteo Renzi sweeping in to meet me the other day in jeans and a white open-neck shirt (“I hope you don’t mind, it’s casual Friday!”), without the obsequious retinue of past Italian leaders, bearing a message of change. His aim: the creation of “un paese smart” — a smart country — that has “stopped crying over itself.”
因此，几天前，以下的一幕让我有些震惊：意大利总理马泰奥·伦齐(Matteo Renzi)穿着牛仔裤和白色开领衫（“我希望你不要介意，今天是便装星期五！”），大步流星地走过来与我会面，没有像以往的意大利领导人那样身后跟着阿谀奉迎的随从，而是带来了一丝变革的气息。他的目标是：创造一个“不再自怨自艾”的“un paese smart”——智慧国家。
Renzi, who has been in office less than 10 months, is 39. This in itself is something unthinkable for the political gerontocracy that was Italy, the lugubrious state epitomized by the late Giulio Andreotti, who was prime minister seven times. “The new generation should do politics the American presidential way, two mandates and out,” he told me during an hourlong interview in his office at Chigi Palace. “I give myself a maximum of eight years if I win the next election, and then I’ll leave politics.”
当政不到10个月的伦齐现年39岁。对于意大利这样的老人当政的国家来说，这本身就是一件难以想象的事。生前曾七次担任总理的朱利奥·安德莱奥蒂(Giulio Andreotti)，就是这个阴郁国家的一个缩影。“新一代应该按照美国总统的做法，两届任期，然后退出，”他在基奇宫接受时长60分钟的采访时告诉我。“如果我能赢得下一届选举的话，我允许自己总共做八年，然后就会告别政坛。”
He is a man in a hurry: constitutional reform, electoral reform, sales on eBay of a fleet of official luxury cars, women thrust into top jobs (half the cabinet is female), plans to slash the number of members of Parliament and senators (currently almost 1,000 of them). “In America, notoriously smaller and less important than Italy, you have 535 representatives and senators,” Renzi said, smiling, raising his eyebrows. Message received.
他有许多事情要忙：宪法改革、选举改革、在eBay上拍卖政府的豪华车队、把女性推上高级职位（内阁成员目前有一半是女性），大幅削减参众两院的议员人数（目前差不多有1000人）的计划。“众所周知，美国在国家大小和重要性上都比不上意大利，但你们只有535名众议员和参议员，”伦齐笑着说，扬起了眉毛。他的意思我懂了。
He held up his portable device and said he wants the whole labyrinthine Italian public administration simplified on an app. “This is the future of our administration!” he said. “How much pension do I get — all will be here.”
他拿起自己的便携式设备，宣称想把迷宫一样复杂的意大利公共行政系统简化成一个应用程序。“这是我们政府的未来！”他说。“你能拿到多少养老金，在这上面都看得到。”
Un paese smart.
智慧国家。
The jeans and app talk send a message — no more business as usual. As a European politician in an age when national politics often seem a charade, outpaced by borderless finance, Renzi knows that symbolism is important in producing substance. The “Jobs Act,” Renzi’s pivotal economic reform, was approved by Parliament this month. It simplifies the labor code, makes it easier for companies with over 15 employees to fire workers, and links workers’ protection to their length of service. By Italian job-for-life standards, it is a revolutionary step. To have a job was always to be “sistemato,” which roughly meant security within the system forever.
他身上的牛仔裤和有关应用程序的想法释放了一个信号——意大利将不同于以往。在国内政治经常混沌如谜、其重要性被不分国界的金融活动所掩盖的时代，作为一名欧洲的政坛人士，伦齐知道，符号的运用对于创造实质成果非常重要。伦齐的关键经济改革——《就业法案》(Jobs Act)——本月在议会通过。它简化了劳动法，让有超过15名员工的企业更容易解雇工作人员，并让劳动者受到的保护与他们的服务年限挂钩。在此之前，有了工作就意味着“sistemato”，大概意思是，一辈子在体制内高枕无忧。
I asked Renzi why the legislation has an English name. “Because I like what Obama did,” he said. “The most interesting things he’s done have been on the domestic front. He took an economy in crisis in 2009, intervened, relaunched growth, and created jobs, all things that Europe has not succeeded in doing.”
我问伦齐，这部法律为什么有一个英文名字。“因为我喜欢奥巴马的做法，”他说。“他做过的最有意思的事是在内政方面。2009年他接手了陷入危机的美国经济，实施了干预，重新拉动了增长，创造了就业，这都是欧洲迄今无法做到的。”
That sounds nice, but of course the American economy is hard-wired for growth, labor mobility and innovation. Italy’s is hamstrung. It is saddled with climbing public debt and recession. Unemployment is over 13 percent. When I arrived in Italy, I found central Rome closed by protests against the “Jobs Act.” Renzi has a big fight on his hands to get Italians to change their ways.
听起来是挺不错，但美国经济本来就有实现增长、劳动力流动和创新的内在条件。意大利在这方面则是举步维艰。它肩上背负着不断攀升的政府债务和陷入衰退的经济。失业率目前已超过13%。抵达意大利时，我发现罗马市中心正因为反对《就业法案》的抗议活动而封锁了起来。要让意大利人做出改变，伦齐面临着一场艰苦的战役。
His room to maneuver and pump up the economy is limited. The European Commission is warning that Italy may find itself in breach of the European Union’s Stability and Growth Pact, which sets tight limits on budget deficits and stringent regulations on reducing debt. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, said this month that any breach would be “negative for Europe.”
他引导并提振经济的空间颇为有限。欧盟委员会告诫，意大利可能会发现自己违反了欧盟的《稳定与增长公约》(Stability and Growth Pact)。公约设置了严格的预算赤字限制，并为削减债务制定了苛刻的监管规定。德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)本月称，对公约的任何违反均会“不利于欧洲”。
This sort of talk gets Renzi exercised because he believes it makes growth impossible. His Democratic Party is just seven years old. In a Europe where extremist and xenophobic parties have been growing, a reflection of widespread anger at high unemployment and stagnation, it represents an exception: a mainstream party of the center-left that has surged.
这种言论让伦齐大伤脑筋，因为他认为这会让增长变得不可能。在欧洲，极端分子和排外政党正不断壮大，反映出了民众对失业率居高不下及经济停滞的普遍愤怒。伦齐领导的民主党(Democratic Party)成立仅七年，这代表了一种例外：一个由中左翼组成的主流政党居然崛起了。
This success has set up Renzi as perhaps the second-most-powerful politician in Europe after Merkel. In schematic terms, he’s Mr. Anti-Austerity versus Ms. Austerity. He’s also the only new game in town, with Britain caught in a debilitating debate over a possible exit from the European Union and France turning in circles under weak leadership.
这种成功把伦齐塑造成了或许是欧洲政坛权势第二大的人物，仅次于默克尔。概括来说，他是与“紧缩女士”针锋相对的“反紧缩先生”。他也代表着全欧洲唯一的新势力，因为英国正围绕是否退出欧盟陷入了一场内耗性的辩论，法国则因领导不力而在原地打转。
“Here a lot of people have accused Merkel of being the guilty one in the crisis,” Renzi said. “But the fault is not hers. It’s ours. We got ourselves into this. If we had done labor reform 10 years ago, when Germany did it, we would have been a lot better off.” Still, he went on, something has to give in a Europe caught “in a dictatorship of bureaucrats and technocrats,” unwilling to accept that “politics is the realm of flexibility.” Iron Frau, take note.
“这里有很多人指责默克尔是危机中的罪人，”伦齐说。“但错不在她，错在我们。我们是自作自受。如果我们在10年前像德国那样进行了劳动力改革，我们现在的处境就会好得多。”但他接着表示，欧洲已陷入了“官僚和技术官僚的独裁”，不愿意接受“政治领域需要弹性”，在这种情况下，总得做些什么。“铁娘子”(Iron Frau)，你可要注意了。
The European economic model, Renzi declared, is wrong. “We cannot go on reasoning only on the basis of austerity and rigor. In a phase of deflation and stagnation, we can’t. We have to keep our accounts in order, spend money well, yes, because Germany is preoccupied that southern countries don’t spend money wisely — and it’s true — but the central point is that if we tackle our problems, European economics must change in favor of investment in growth.”
伦齐宣称，欧洲的经济模式是错误的。“我们不能只是讲紧缩和财政纪律了。在通货紧缩、经济停滞的阶段，我们没法这么做。我们必须要让账户井井有条，合理开支，因为德国最担心的是，欧洲南部的国家花钱的方式不明智——这是实情——但关键的一点是，我们要想解决问题，欧洲经济政策就必须转变，鼓励通过投资来促进增长。”
I asked Renzi how. He said investment in strategic areas — digital broadband, education, research, energy, the green economy — “should be outside the calculation of the Stability Pact, which is the instrument of rigidity and austerity.”
我问伦齐如何才能做到这一点。他说，针对数字宽带、教育、研究、能源、绿色经济这些战略领域的投资，“应该独立于《稳定公约》的计算之外，该公约是严控开支、推行紧缩的工具”。
How, he asked, can he fight criminality and massive unemployment in Sicily if some Stability Pact formula on deficits and debt blocks him?
他问道，如果受制于《稳定公约》中有关赤字和债务的约束，他怎么能打击西西里岛的犯罪和大量失业的问题。
The eurozone, in which Italy is the third-largest economy, is an unwieldy entity — tied by a shared currency, divided by everything from fiscal policy to culture. Anger over stagnation is boiling over. Renzi is right: Something has to give for Europe and its jobless youth. In the past, even Germany has broken Stability Pact rules in a time of need. Now it’s payback time. But if Renzi gets some margin of budgetary flexibility, he must deliver. Waste and corruption are endemic to Italy. Curtailing them is a Sisyphean task. “First I must put my own country in order,” Renzi acknowledged. “Otherwise I will never be credible.”
欧元区是一个笨重的实体，意大利是其中的第三大经济体。尽管欧元区由统一的货币联系在一起，但从财政政策到文化，各成员国却在各种方面存在分歧。经济停滞导致民怨沸腾，伦齐说得对：必须为欧洲和欧洲失业的年轻人做点什么。过去，就连德国都曾在需要的时候，违反过《稳定公约》。现在是回报的时候了。但如果伦齐在预算方面有了一定的活动空间，那他就必须兑现承诺。在意大利，浪费和腐败比比皆是，遏制这些问题是一项没有尽头的任务。“首先，我必须让自己的国家井井有条，”伦齐承认。“否则，我就无法取信与人。”