TRENTON, N.J. — In a remarkable day of swirling political drama, Gov. Chris Christie tried on Thursday to control the damage from revelations that his administration ordered the revenge-closings of traffic lanes at the George Washington Bridge by firing a top aide, cutting ties with a longtime political adviser and repeatedly apologizing in a nearly two-hour news conference.
新泽西州特伦顿——这是不同寻常的一天，令人目眩的政治大戏正在上演。周四，州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)试图为其班底出于报复关闭乔治华盛顿大桥(George Washington Bridge)行车道的丑闻控制损失，他解雇了一名高级助手，切断了与长期政治顾问的关系，并在将近两个小时的新闻发布会上反复道歉。
Sounding somber and appearing contrite, the normally garrulous Mr. Christie said he had had no advance knowledge of the lane closings and had been “humiliated” by the entire episode.
以往总是滔滔不绝的克里斯蒂语气认真，看起来态度端正，他说，他事先对行车道被关闭一事毫不知情，整个事件令他“蒙羞”。
“I am a very sad person today,” the governor said. “I am heartbroken that someone I permitted to be in that circle of trust for the past five years betrayed that trust.”
这名州长说，“我今天非常难过。过去五年，我允许一些人待在我信任的圈子里，但他们却辜负了这种信任，这让我心碎。”
Mr. Christie’s emotional news conference unfolded as the United States attorney began an investigation and as — just down the hall — a former associate who was involved in the lane closings refused to answer questions posed by Democrats investigating the matter, saying that he would tell his story only under immunity from prosecution.
在这场情绪化的新闻发布会举行的同时，美国联邦检察官展开了相关调查，此外，就在大厅的另一边，参与关闭行车道一事的克里斯蒂的前助手拒绝回答调查这一事件的民主党人的提问，他说，只有在免于起诉的条件下，他才会说出真相。
The Democrats promised to release more documents on Friday morning and issue more subpoenas of Christie aides. And the national news media that has so far bathed Mr. Christie in a distant, generally positive light descended on his doorstep here with a phalanx of television cameras and harsh speculation about whether the scandal would hurt his aspirations to be the Republican nominee for president in 2016.
民主党人已承诺将于周五上午公布更多文件，并向克里斯蒂的助手们发出更多传票。此前一直并未紧密关注克里斯蒂，基本上对他进行正面报道的国家新闻媒体突然蜂拥至他的门口，架起无数台摄像机，无情地推测着这桩丑闻是否会影响他成为2016年共和党总统候选人的目标。
In the afternoon, Mr. Christie took a helicopter to Fort Lee, N.J. — the borough affected by the lane closings — and apologized to the mayor. At least some residents cheered him as he arrived, even after his motorcade briefly created yet another traffic jam.
下午，克里斯蒂乘直升机抵达了新泽西州利堡——该市因行车道关闭受到了影响——向市长道了歉。他抵达时，仍然有一些居民前来欢迎他，虽然在这之前，他的车队造成了又一次塞车，不过，这次的持续时间并不长。
During his news conference in Trenton, Mr. Christie said he had been “blindsided” by emails made public on Wednesday that showed that staff members — also his close friends — had punished the Democratic mayor of Fort Lee in September by closing entrance lanes to the bridge because he did not endorse the governor for re-election.
在特伦顿的新闻发布会上，克里斯蒂说，周三被曝光的这些邮件对他来说如同“当头一棒”。这些邮件显示他手下的工作人员及他的亲密友人在9月份为了报复利堡的民主党市长，关闭了通往大桥的行车道，只因为他没有支持州长的连任竞选。
He said he had not realized the gravity of the situation even after officials from the Port Authority, which runs the bridge, testified a month ago that the closings had delayed emergency responders, and had been done abruptly, secretively and against port protocols. His apologies were directed at the people of New Jersey and Fort Lee, and to reporters and Democratic legislators who he had earlier dismissed as simply “obsessed” with finding out who closed the lanes and why.
他说，虽然管理这座大桥的港口事务管理局一个月之前证实，通道关闭导致了一些急救车辆被延误，而且这次的关闭是突然进行的，没有说明原因，并违反了港口的规程，他当时仍然没有意识到情况的严重性。他向新泽西和利堡的民众、记者们和民主党议员道了歉。他早些时候曾谴责这些记者和民主党议员，为了找出谁关闭了这些行车道以及相关原因而变得“神经兮兮”。
Mr. Christie fired Bridget Anne Kelly, the deputy chief of staff who sent an email approving the lane closings, whom he called “stupid” and “deceitful.” Her deception, he said, led him to mislead the public, but he did so unwittingly.
克里斯蒂解雇了副幕僚长布里奇特·安妮·凯利(Bridget Anne Kelly)。正是后者发出了批准关闭通道的邮件。他说凯利“愚蠢”，而且“骗了人”。他说，她的谎言令他误导了公众，他本人是无心的。
He also asked his two-time campaign manager, Bill Stepien, to step down as a consultant to the Republican Governors Association and to withdraw his name from consideration to lead the state Republican Party.
他还要求两度担任其竞选经理的比尔·施特平(Bill Stepien)辞去共和党州长协会(Republican Governors Association)顾问的职务，并且不再考虑去领导共和党的新泽西州党部。
Four weeks ago, he told reporters, before publicly addressing the simmering controversy, he gathered his top staff members and asked them if anyone had anything to do with the lane closings. He said he gave them one hour before he publicly denied his staff’s involvement.
四周之前，他告诉记者，在公开回应这桩不断发酵的争议之前，他召集了领导班子的最高成员，问是否有人参与了通道关闭事件。他说，自己给了他们一小时的时间，然后才公开否认了他的手下曾参与此事。
“They all reported that there was no information other than what we already knew. I was being led to believe by folks around me that there was no basis to this,” he continued. “I was wrong.”
他接着说，“他们都说，除了我们已经知道的消息，没有其他东西。周围的人让我相信这一切是无稽之谈。结果我错了。”
The governor at times took overall for responsibility for those who work for him, but argued that he had 65,000 employees and could not monitor them all. Still, he displayed only occasional flashes of his usual pugnacity with reporters, lowering his voice to a whisper as he said he felt “sad” and “humiliated” by the crass, mocking tone of his employees’ emails.
在发布会上，克里斯蒂时有表示，为手下人的所作所为承担最高责任，但他说，他有6.5万名雇员，没法监督所有人。尽管如此，他只是偶尔表现出了自己在记者面前的惯常攻击性，在提及他的雇员在邮件中的冷酷、得意的语气让他感到“悲哀”和“羞耻”时，还降低了音量，声音小如耳语。
“I had no knowledge or involvement in this issue, in its planning or its execution,” Mr. Christie said. “And I am stunned by the abject stupidity that was shown here. Regardless of what the facts ultimately uncover, this was handled in a callous and indifferent way.”
克里斯蒂说，“我不知道也没参与这件事，无论是这件事的计划还是执行。这件事暴露出的可鄙的愚蠢令我感到震惊。无论这些事实最终揭示了什么，其做法都是无情和冷漠的。”
Democrats argued that the increasing number of resignations and dismissals — two other aides resigned in December — and the names of the governor’s staff members on the emails made it hard to believe that the pettiness was, as the governor argued, “the exception and not the rule” of his administration.
民主党人说，辞职和被解雇的人越来越多——还有两名助手已于12月辞职——以及那些出现在邮件中的州长班底人员的名字，让人很难相信州长的说法，即这种龌龊的做法在他的政府中是“例外，并不普遍。”
“I find it hard to believe that Bridget Kelly on her own came up with the idea to divert traffic lanes in Fort Lee,” said Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Democrat who has been leading the investigation.
主导这次调查的民主党人、州众议员约翰·维希涅夫斯基(John Wisniewski)说，“我很难相信，在利堡分流行车道的主意是布里奇特·凯利一个人想出来的。”
“You have an administration that is very hands-on,” he said. “It strains credibility to say that somebody in as high a position as a deputy chief of staff, somebody in as high a position as the governor’s principal spokesperson, somebody in as high a position as his campaign manager, all of whose names are in these emails, didn’t ever communicate this to the governor.”
他说，“你的领导班子事必躬亲。副幕僚长、州长的首席发言人、竞选经理，这样高级别官员的名字出现在邮件里，却都没有跟州长沟通过，实在缺乏可信度。”
For Mr. Christie, one of the leading figures in the Republican Party and a likely candidate for the party’s presidential nomination in 2016, the scandal represents the gravest challenge to his political career. It either suggests he had a failure of management skills or confirms what some critics have described as bully-like behavior.
对于共和党领袖之一、2016年有可能获得党内提名成为总统候选人的克里斯蒂来说，这桩丑闻是其政治生涯中最严重的挑战。这件事或许意味着他缺乏管理能力，要不就证实了一些批评人士所描述的恶霸式行为。
“This is not the tone I have set over the last four years in this building,” he said. “I am who I am. But I am not a bully.”
他说，“这不是我过去四年在政府中定下的基调。我就是我，但我不是恶霸。”
The United States attorney for New Jersey, Paul J. Fishman, opened an inquiry after the matter was referred to his office by the inspector general for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Some legal experts, however, said it was difficult to imagine how the scandal could yield criminal charges.
在纽约和新泽西的港口事务管理局局长将此事提交检察官办公室之后，美国新泽西州联邦检察官保罗·J·菲什曼(Paul J. Fishman)开启了调查。不过，一些法律专家说，这桩丑闻不太可能带来刑事指控。