ATHENS — Only a day after grim predictions of financial and social collapse in Greece, a scramble appeared underway to work out the details of a new bailout package to bring the country back from the brink of falling out of the euro.
雅典——就在人们做出悲观预测称希腊会出现金融与社会崩溃的一天之后，各方似乎正在努力制订新救助计划的细节，希望将希腊从离开欧元区的悬崖边拉回。
As details of the new offer emerged, it appeared the Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras was capitulating to demands on harsh austerity terms that he urged his countrymen to reject in the referendum last Sunday, like tax increases and various measures to cut the costs of pensions.
随着新救助计划的细节浮出水面，希腊总理亚历克西斯· 齐普拉斯(Alexis Tsipras)看起来对严苛的紧缩条款做出了让步。他曾力劝民众在上周日举行的公投中拒绝接受这些条款，比如增税，以及减少养老金支出的种种举措。
But Mr. Tsipras sought a three-year bailout loan totaling 53.5 billion euros (about $59 billion) and asked creditors to commit to discussing restructuring the nation’s massive debt. The amount was more than it would have been without a nationwide banking shutdown that has pummeled the economy. If granted, it would come on top of 240 billion euros in bailout loans Greece has received since 2010. Mr. Tsipras seemed to have gained ground on debt relief, his one bedrock demand. Germany’s finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, finally gave a little on that Thursday, admitting that “debt sustainability is not feasible without a haircut,” or write-down of debt, even if he then appeared to backtrack.
但齐普拉斯随后寻求获得535亿欧元（约合3690亿元人民币）的三年期救助贷款，并请求债权人承诺讨论对该国庞大的债务进行重组的问题。若是没有出现全国银行关闭给经济造成重创的情况，这个金额原本会少一些。如果获准，这将是希腊继2010年以来获得2400亿欧元救助贷款后得到的又一轮救助。齐普拉斯似乎在债务减免方面取得了进展，而这是他的一个基本要求。周四，德国财长沃尔夫冈·朔伊布勒(Wolfgang Schäuble)终于做出些许让步，承认“不进行”债务“减计的话，无法实现债务的可持续性”，尽管他后来似乎改变了口风。
Donald Tusk, the prime minister of Poland and the president of the European Council, said on Twitter that any “realistic proposal from Athens needs to be matched by realistic proposal from creditors on debt sustainability to create win-win situation.”
波兰总理、欧洲理事会(European Council)主席唐纳德·图斯克(Donald Tusk)在Twitter发帖称，“希腊提出切实可行的提议时，债权人也需要提出切实可行的债务可持续性方案与之匹配，这样才能实现双赢。”
Mr. Tsipras went before his cabinet to seek a commitment for reform measures in the new plan that, presumably, went beyond what had been offered previously. He will seek the approval of Parliament on Friday. Much may hinge on his ability to persuade the more radical elements of his Syriza party to support a package that in essence was anathema to many of them last week.
齐普拉斯请求内阁承诺在新提议中加入改革的内容。这些措施可能会超越之前的提议。他将于周五寻求议会的批准。这在很大程度上可能取决于齐普拉斯有没有能力说服他领导的左翼联盟(Syriza)激进派支持新救助计划，其中很多人上周对类似的计划根本就是深恶痛疾。
It is still too early to gauge whether this prospective bailout will be any more effective than earlier pacts in balancing the demands of the creditors against some relief from austerity.
要评判新计划在平衡债权人要求与减轻紧缩举措方面是否比之前的救助计划更有效，现在还为时过早。
What was breathtaking, however, was how in a matter of hours the entire dynamic in the Greek crisis seemed to shift, from apocalyptic warnings of a Zimbabwe in the Balkans, to a fresh optimism that the basics of a deal could be worked out.
然而，令人惊奇的是，在几个小时的时间里，希腊危机的整个态势似乎就发生了转变，从该国将成为巴尔干半岛的津巴布韦的末世警告，演变到可能会制订出协议基本框架的新希望。
The question now is whether that apparent change of heart reflected a new political determination to cut a deal that keeps Greece in the eurozone.
现在的问题在于，这种明显的回心转意是否反映出希腊下了新的政治决心，准备达成协议，把自己留在欧元区。
The representatives of Greece’s main creditors — the eurozone nations, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund — are scheduled to review the new proposal in Brussels on Friday. Approval will also require an assessment by the 19 finance ministers of eurozone countries. That meeting, of the so-called Eurogroup, has been scheduled for Saturday afternoon in Brussels.
希腊主要债权人——欧元区国家、欧洲央行和国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)——的代表将于周五在布鲁塞尔审查这份新提议。要想获得批准，还需要欧元区19国家财长做出评估。他们组成的欧元集团(Eurogroup)的会议定于周六下午在布鲁塞尔召开。
One analyst said he thought the offer would be well received by creditors.
一名分析人士表示，他认为该提议会深受债权人欢迎。
“The package takes a very substantial step in the right direction and it should move us closer to a deal,” said Mujtaba Rahman, the Europe director for the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultancy, shortly after reading one version of the Greek offer translated into English.
“这份救助计划朝着正确的方向迈出了相当大的一步，应该会使我们更加接近达成协议，”政治风险咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)的欧洲议题负责人穆杰塔巴·拉赫曼(Mujtaba Rahman)在看到希腊提议的英文翻译版后说。
“The question now is whether the Greeks are actually going to implement some of the measures over the course of the weekend by putting them before their Parliament as German officials seems to be demanding,” he added.
“现在的问题在于，希腊是否真的会在周末期间采取行动，就像德国官员要求的那样，将计划提交给议会，” 他还表示。
Prospects for a deal improved through the day as a procession of European leaders came around to Mr. Tsipras’s conviction that pure austerity measures were insufficient in their own right and had to be accompanied by a commitment to reduce the burden of Greece’s stupendous debt.
当天，达成协议的可能性有所增加。一批欧洲领导人转而接受齐普拉斯深信不疑的看法，即只靠紧缩措施是不够的，还要伴之以减轻希腊沉重的债务负担的承诺。
Greece received vital political support and technical assistance from France, help that highlighted the contrasting approaches being taken by the two leading powers in the European Union. Germany has played the bad cop, standing firm against concessions to Greece and, in Mr. Schäuble’s case, openly doubting that the country really belonged in the eurozone. France has thrown itself into the task of finding a deal.
法国为希腊提供了至关重要的政治支持及技术援助。这种帮助突显了欧盟两个大国的不同态度。德国唱白脸，坚决反对向希腊妥协，朔伊布勒本人还公开质疑希腊是否真的属于欧元区。法国则在积极寻找解决方案，希望达成协议。
The French assistance appeared to be an effort to make sure the Greek proposal, submitted just before a midnight deadline, would be as thorough and salable as possible to Greece’s creditors and would smooth the way for a compromise on a new bailout package to keep Greece afloat financially and inside the euro.
法国伸出援手似乎是为了确保希腊这份恰在午夜的最后期限前提交的方案对其债权人来说尽可能地周密和可行，为就新救助计划做出妥协铺平道路。该计划旨在确保希腊金融市场正常运转，并留在欧元区。
“There is a group of people who have been sent to help the Greeks, to try to transform words into action,” said a French government official with knowledge of the effort.
一名知情的法国政府官员表示，“我们派了一组人前去帮助希腊人，希望把语言变成行动。”
France has been the most steadfast major nation in Europe supporting Greece ever since Mr. Tsipras was ushered in to power in January on a mandate to repudiate austerity. Paris has been particularly outspoken in recent days about the need for a compromise that would help Greece and hold the eurozone together.
自齐普拉斯于今年1月凭借民众对紧缩政策的拒绝而上台以来，法国一直是支持希腊的最坚定的欧洲大国。近日来，巴黎尤其明确地表示需要做出妥协，在帮助希腊的同时，使欧元区团结在一起。
By contrast, Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, has shown little inclination to compromise on demands that Greece take actions to show that it can be fiscally responsible before even considering new bailout aid.
相比之下，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)没有表现出多少做出妥协的意愿。德国要求，希腊必须首先采取行动表明该国能够在财政上负责，否则就连考虑新救助计划都不可能。
Neither French nor German officials would discuss France’s involvement in the Greek proposal in any depth. But the development raised questions about whether France and Germany have split heading into the final negotiations or whether there is a back-room understanding between Paris and Berlin.
法国与德国官员均不愿探讨法国参与希腊提议制订过程的问题，无论这种介入有多深。但目前的进展引发了疑问：是法国和德国在走向最终谈判的路上已分道扬镳，还是巴黎和柏林在私底下达成了谅解？
Mr. Tsipras and his team spent the day in meetings as they put together a proposal and sought to ensure domestic political support for it.
齐普拉斯及其团队在会议中度过了一天。他们制订出这份提议，并力图确保得到国内的政治支持。
Ms. Merkel, speaking later in Sarajevo, reiterated her opposition to actually writing off some of Greece’s debt, though she was less definitive about steps like reducing interest rates or extending the payment period as ways of helping Greece manage its indebtedness.
默克尔后来在萨拉热窝讲话时重申了反对直接减计希腊债务的立场，不过她在降低利率或延长支付期限等帮助希腊处理债务的措施上有所松动。