When Apple reported a record-shattering profit of $18 billion last month, the company said its growth came largely from sales in greater China. This week, some research firms gave a clearer picture of just how big Apple has become in China.
当苹果(Apple)上个月报告称该公司的利润打破记录，达到180亿美元（约合1124亿元人民币）时，该公司表示收益的增长很大程度上源于在大中华区的销售。本周，一些研究公司勾画出了更加清晰的画面，展示了苹果在中国究竟有多受欢迎。
Both Kantar Worldpanel and Canalys, firms that track global smartphone sales, said Apple’s iOS mobile operating system gained market share in China at the expense of Google’s Android.
追踪全球智能手机销售情况的凯度消费者指数(Kantar Worldpanel)及咨询公司Canalys表示，苹果的iOS移动操作系统挤占了谷歌(Google)的Android系统在中国的市场份额。
Chris Jones, an analyst for Canalys, said that in the fourth quarter of last year, iOS was in 12.3 percent of the smartphones sold in China, a sharp increase from 5 percent in the previous quarter. Android was in 86.3 percent of smartphones in the fourth quarter, compared with 93.7 percent in the third quarter, according to Mr. Jones.
Canalys的分析师克里斯·琼斯(Chris Jones)表示，去年四季度，iOS在中国出售的智能手机中占据了12.3%的份额，与上季度的5%相比，出现了急剧提升。琼斯透露，四季度，Android系统在智能手机中所占的份额为86.3%，而三季度的份额为93.7%。
Canalys estimates that Apple is now the top smartphone vendor in China. But Mr. Jones said Canalys would explain how it reached this conclusion only to clients, not with the news media or competitors.
据Canalys估计，苹果目前是中国最大的智能手机厂商。但琼斯表示，Canalys只会向客户解释得出这一结论的依据，但不会向新闻媒体或竞争对手透露。
Kantar Worldpanel found slightly different results. It focused its research on so-called urban China — a portion of mainland China where smartphones are more commonplace. Kantar also found that Apple’s iOS gained at the expense of Android. But the firm found that Apple was the No. 2 vendor in the region, with about 21.5 percent of the market, behind the Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi (29.2 percent) and ahead of Huawei and Samsung (about 12 percent each).
凯度给出的结果稍有不同。该公司重点对所谓的中国城市市场进行研究，在城市，智能手机更为普遍。凯度也发现，苹果的iOS系统挤占了Android系统的份额。但该公司发现，苹果在这部分地区是第二大智能手机厂商，拥有21.5%的市场份额，落后于中国的智能手机制造商小米（市场份额为29.2%），但领先于华为和三星(Samsung)，后两者分别拥有约12%的市场份额。
Whether Apple is No. 1 or No. 2, its growth in China has been remarkable. Just last October, the company was the No. 6 smartphone maker in China, behind Huawei, Lenovo, Samsung, Xiaomi and Yulong, according to Canalys.
无论是第一还是第二，苹果在中国的增长都引人注目。根据Canalys的数据，就在去年10月，苹果还只是中国市场上排名第六位的智能手机制造商，落后于华为、联想、三星、小米和宇龙。
Kantar Worldpanel also noted that about a quarter of the Chinese consumers who bought iPhones in the last three months were buying smartphones for the first time.
凯度还指出，在过去三个月里购买iPhone的中国消费者中，有四分之一是首次购买智能手机。
Carolina Milanesi, a Kantar analyst, said Apple’s introduction of the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, which both have larger screens than previous iPhones, clearly drove the growth.
凯度的分析师卡罗琳娜·米拉内西(Carolina Milanesi)称，苹果iPhone 6和iPhone 6 Plus的推出，显然推动了销售的增长。与之前的iPhone相比，这两款手机的屏幕都更大。