Berek Sawut, an ethnic Kazakh herder, was overwhelmed by hundreds of calls a day after the Chinese news media reported last week that he had stumbled across a 17-pound gold nugget in the foothills of the Altay range of northwest China. The nugget, in the shape of China, was the largest discovery of its kind in the vast region of Xinjiang.
在中国媒体上周报道他捡到一块17磅重（约合7.71千克）的金块之后，每天数以百计的来电让哈萨克族牧民别热克·萨吾特(Berek Sawut)应接不暇。这个形似中国地图的金块，是在中国西北阿尔泰山脉的丘陵上发现的。它是迄今在辽阔的新疆地区发现的最大的此类金块。
So Mr. Sawut turned off his cellphone at some point this week. That led to a round of reports that said he had mysteriously vanished. But soon Chinese reporters located him again, in Qinghe County, where he lives.
所以别热克在上周某一时刻关机了。这导致一系列报道声称他已神秘消失。但很快中国记者们在他居住的青河县重新找到了他。
It is unclear what will happen to the nugget, which has drawn nationwide attention in China. Mr. Sawut told reporters that he thought officials might take it, as precious metals found in mines in the region are deemed state property. The Altay area is known for its gold deposits and for mines that date to the pre-Communist era and that were once operated by Russians.
这个举国瞩目的金块的未来还不确定。别热克对记者们说，他觉得政府可能会收缴这个金块，因为在这个地区矿井里发现的贵金属都会被视作国家财产。阿勒泰地区以黄金矿藏丰富和建国前由俄罗斯人运营的金矿而闻名。
But the herder had found the nugget above ground, on a wintry landscape, as the sun was setting.
但是他是在一派冬日景象中，于日落时分在地面上发现这个金块的。
On Wednesday, the state-run China News Agency quoted an unidentified local official as saying that the Qinghe County Bureau of Land Resources had no intention of taking the nugget from the herdsman. People in the area who have found gemstones or gold nuggets above ground have been allowed to keep them. But the bureau might offer to buy the nugget to display in a local museum, the official said.
周三，官媒中新社引用一名匿名当地官员的话称，青河县国土部门无意要求他上交金块。在此地区民众在地表发现的宝石或金块都不用上交。但是此官员说国土部门也许会尝试买下此金块，放到当地博物馆展览。
The bureau is running a series of tests on the nugget to determine its worth. Initial news reports said the nugget was natural gold ore mixed with quartz and other minerals. If it were pure gold, it would be worth more than $310,000, at $1,250 per Troy ounce.
国土部门正在对金块做一系列鉴定以进行估价。初步新闻报道称，这个金块是混杂有石英和其他矿物的天然黄金矿石。如果是纯金，按每金衡盎司1250美元计算，此金块将价值31万美元（约合200万人民币）以上。
The Beijing News reported on Wednesday that someone had offered Mr. Sawut three million renminbi, about $480,000, for the nugget, but that the herder would not settle for less than the equivalent of $800,000. In any case, he was waiting for officials to say whether the nugget was his to sell, the report said.
《新京报》周三报道，有人出价300万人民币——约合48万美元——购买此金块。但是别热克不接受任何低于相当于80万美元以下的价钱。无论如何，报道称他正在等政府的消息，以确定他是否可以出售这个金块。
On Monday, People’s Daily, published an article with the headline “To Whom Should the Dog-Head Gold Belong?” (This type of nugget is often called “dog-head gold” or “horseshoe gold” because of the images that can be seen in its rough shape.)
周一，《人民日报》发表了一篇题为“捡到‘狗头金’到底该归谁？”的文章。（这类金块常因其粗糙的形状让人联想到的形象而被称作“狗头金”或“马蹄金”。）
The article said that if the nugget were considered a cultural relic, then the government could claim it. But it also mentioned that the Qinghe County Cultural Relics Bureau had already said the nugget was not such an object, and that as a result the bureau had no rights to it. Separately, the local Bureau of Land Resources, the Bureau of Mines and the police have put together a “joint investigation group” to examine the nugget.
这篇文章称，如果被看作是文物，那么政府可以要求上交金块。但是文章也提到青河县文物局认为它并非文物，故文物局无权将其收缴。另外，当地的国土、矿产和公安部门已组建“联合调查组”来检查此金块。