January is the cruelest month, at least for those with good intentions to get fit. According to recent analyses of decades’ worth of exercise studies, many new exercise “intenders” will abandon their workout routines within two weeks of their New Year’s resolutions, and about half will quit by June. Even longtime exercisers feel the pull of physical entropy. In any given year, around a quarter of the people who had been working out dutifully will stop. (And about 2 percent of those who claim to have no intention of exercising actually start and continue, baffling researchers and possibly the exercisers themselves.)
一月是最残忍的月份，至少对于那些满怀健身计划的人来说如此。近期人们对几十年来的锻炼研究进行分析，结果发现大量新的健身“计划者”在制订下新年计划的两周内就会放弃锻炼，到6月份时，放弃的人达到了一半。就算是长期健身的人也会感觉到物理熵的拉扯。无论在哪一年，都会有约四分之一曾经勤奋健身的人停止锻炼。（同时在宣称自己不打算健身的人当中，也有约2%的人事实上开始健身而且坚持了下来，这让研究人员十分迷茫，而健身者自己恐怕也无法完全厘清个中原因。）
Why we fail to realize our best exercise intentions is a complex interplay of psychology, physiology and genetics. Adult twins frequently have similar exercise patterns, suggesting that some portion of exercise motivation is inherited. Innate personality also plays a role, according to one of the new reviews published last fall in the British Journal of Sports Medicine. Being extroverted makes it easier to stick with exercise resolutions, while being nice (or “agreeable,” in psychological terms) does not.
为什么我们无法意识到自己最佳的健身计划，这是心理、生理和基因交互作用的结果。成年的双胞胎常常会有类似的健身模式，这意味着健身动机中有一部分是与生俱来的。根据去年秋季发表在《英国运动医学学刊》(British Journal of Sports Medicine)的一篇新述评，内生的个性也会起到一定作用。天性外向的人较易于把锻炼计划坚持到底，而“老好人”（或者用心理学术语，是“和蔼可亲”的人）则不会。
But most quit exercising for more commonplace — and redressable — reasons. For instance, people make generic or unrealistic plans about where and when they will exercise, making them essentially fairy-tale wishes, says Ryan Rhodes, a professor of behavioral medicine at the University of Victoria in British Columbia, who has co-written several recent reviews and conducted numerous exercise-intention experiments.
但绝大多数的人之所以放弃运动，是基于更加寻常，同时也更有改善余地的原因。加拿大BC省维多利亚大学(University of Victoria in British Columbia)行为医学教授莱恩·罗德斯(Ryan Rhodes)新近参与写作过数篇述评，做过大量有关健身计划的试验，他举例说，有些人对于健身的场所和时段制订了笼统或不现实的计划，这令计划实质上沦为海市蜃楼。
“Someone can plan to go to the gym Friday at 5:30 a.m. before work,” he says, but if he or she hates early rising or prebreakfast exertion, those plans will evaporate. What Dr. Rhodes describes as a “far more detailed strategy” that concretely addresses specific obstacles (Which bus runs at 5:30 a.m.? Gym bag packed and next to the door?) is more likely to motivate behavior. Also gauge “your daily fatigue and schedule exercise during times when you feel best,” he advises.
“有些人计划要在周五早上5点半去健身房，赶在上班前好好练一练，”他说，但如果这些人痛恨早起，或觉得没吃早饭就健身实在太痛苦，这样的计划将最终成为泡影。罗德斯建议制订一个“更为周密的战略”，切实考虑到各种具体的障碍（哪一路公交车早上5点半就开始运行？要不要提前把健身包理好放到门边上？）更有可能激励人们的行动。他还建议说，“要感知你平日的疲惫感，把健身时段安排在你状态最好的时候。”
But the most important factor when it comes to sticking with exercise is so obvious that it frequently goes unheeded. The appeals of physical fitness — good health, pleasing appearance, appropriate body weight — are vague and distant, and “the actual experience of exercise is not given much consideration,” Dr. Rhodes says. In other words, we don’t think about whether we like exercise before we embark on a regimen, yet our feelings about exercise predict “who translates their intentions into behavior,” as Dr. Rhodes puts it.
但是，在谈到坚持健身时，其中最重要的一个因素因为过于明显，所以往往反而被人忽略了。身体健美的诉求——健康，外表让人感觉舒服，身材适中——是模糊而遥远的，而“健身给人带来的真切体验却很少被人考虑进来，”罗德斯说。换句话说，在我们开始某个健身项目之前，并没有想过自己是否真的喜欢运动，然而我们对健身的感受预示着“谁将能把自己的意原落实为行动，”罗德斯解释说。
So the first consideration is finding your exercise bliss. Typically this includes variety, novelty and competence. People who feel ungainly in a Zumba class won’t keep attending.
所以你首先要考虑的是找到你健身的快乐所在。通常它包括了多样性、新奇性和胜任程度。如果你在一堂尊巴课上感觉毫无收获，肯定不会再去上了。
Rewards, furthermore, are of limited value. Promise yourself an hour of television after 30 minutes of walking through the neighborhood, and the walk can seem more pleasurable. But naked greed is not much of a motivator. In a study published last year in Preventive Medicine, 117 college freshmen agreed to visit their school’s gym on a regular schedule. Some were then paid at least $10 weekly if they complied. After four months, the for-profit exercisers had visited the facility more times in total than the other students, but only 63 percent met the original agreed-upon goals, and everyone’s attendance had fallen off week by week. Even for the notoriously impecunious, cash cannot overcome lack of interest.
进一步来说，奖励的作用是有限的。你可以答应自己在小区里快走30分钟后，坐下来看1小时电视，这样一来走路似乎会更有意思。但纯粹的欲望并不是特别有效的刺激物。去年在《预防医学》(Preventive Medicine)上发表的一篇文章介绍了这样一项试验，117名大学新生同意定期去学校健身房锻炼。接下来，部分学生得到了物质奖励：如果能按既定的日程去锻炼，每周能拿到至少10美元。在四个月后，这些健身有钱赚的学生去锻炼的次数加起来超过了别的学生，但其中也只有63%达到了原定目标，而且所有人去健身房的次数都在逐周下降。就算是对于穷得叮当响的人，钞票也无法跟欠缺兴趣抗衡。