My mother is not anti-Apple. She owns a Mac and an older iPad, but has always been perfectly satisfied with her trusty copy of Microsoft Word. “That’s what everyone uses,” she says.
我母亲并不讨厌苹果(Apple)。她有一台Mac，还有一个老款的iPad。但是，她一直对她可靠的Microsoft Word非常满意。她说，“所有人都用Word。”
She may want to think about switching.
她可能会考虑换一换。
The new version of Apple’s Pages word-processing software — part of a trio of applications the company calls iWork that includes a spreadsheet program and a presentation manager — seems tailor-made for someone like her: It’s simple to use, easy to learn and has sharing features that should finally put an end to her complaints about friends who are unable to open the documents she sends them.
苹果的Pages文字处理软件的新版本——苹果iWork的三个应用程序之一，另外两个分别是制表程序和幻灯片管理器——似乎是为她这种人量身定制的：它使用简单、学起来容易，而且还设有分享功能——这样一来，她照理可以不用再抱怨朋友们打不开她发送的文件了。
There are plenty of people who will find that Pages does not meet their needs (more on that later). But the company, based in Cupertino, Calif., has rethought its approach to the most boring of computer applications — the word processor — with some impressive results. It particularly shines in three areas: appearance, compatibility and sharing.
很多人会发现Pages无法满足他们的需求（这一点稍后再说）。但是，在加州库比提诺的苹果公司对最无趣的电脑应用程序——文字处理器——进行了重新审视，其结果令人印象深刻。Pages有三个亮点：外观、兼容性和分享功能。
To appreciate the improvements, it might be helpful to offer a comparison between Pages and Word.
为了更好的理解相关改进，我们最好用Word和Pages做个比较。
ROUND 1: APPEARANCE Ever since text-based programs like Word Perfect gave way to the point-and-click variety, companies have crammed more and more buttons into their programs. The latest version of Word has a bevy of tiny icons for every function imaginable.
第一回合：外观 自从像Word Perfect这种基于文本的程序让位给使用“指向-点击”的各种程序，各公司都在自己的程序里塞进了越来越多的按钮。Word的最新版就有大量小图标，你能想到的任何功能，都有一个图标。
Pages takes a different approach, with just a handful of icons across the top and a contextual panel that slides out from the right. Editing text? Out pops the buttons for bold, font size and justification. Inserting a table? The panel switches to let you modify the rows and columns. Add a picture and you automatically get options for borders and shadows.
Pages的做法则有所不同，它只在顶端放了几个图标，与当前编辑内容相关的面板会从右边滑出来。文本编辑？黑体、字体大小和对齐方式的按钮会自动跳出来。插入表格？前述面板会自动变化，供你调整行列。插入图片后会自动出现设置边框和阴影的选项。
I compared Pages with a version of Office 365 on a Surface Pro tablet. Microsoft groups its icons in different tabs along the top, but they don’t automatically appear when you need them as they do in Pages. And each tab has too many buttons, most of which are not intuitive. Longtime power users will figure it out, but I suspect Mom would be happier with the simpler interface.
我在一台Surface Pro平板电脑上把Pages和Office 365的一个版本做了比较。微软把图标分成不同的栏，放在页面顶部，但是它们不会像在Pages里那样，在你需要的时候自动出现。而且每一栏上都有过多的按钮，其中的大多数都不是一望即知怎么用的。老资格的高级用户可能会弄清楚，但我认为妈妈会比较喜欢简单的界面。
ROUND 2: COMPATIBILITY The previous versions of Pages had a serious problem: Documents created on Pages for the Mac didn’t open easily on Pages for the iPad. Even worse, the two didn’t share anywhere near the same capabilities; they supported different headers, graphics, tables of contents and charts. A document created on the Mac looked different on the iPad, which also supported fewer fonts.
第二回合：兼容性 Pages之前的版本存在一个严重的问题：在Mac上创建的文件很难在iPad的Pages上打开。更糟的是，二者在功能方面差异显著；它们支持的页眉、图形、目录和表格都不相同。在Mac上创建的文件在iPad上看起来完全不一样，而且iPad支持的字体也比较少。
But the new version of Pages on a Mac is identical to Pages for the iPad or the iPhone. And the company now has a version of Pages that runs amazingly well in any modern web browser, even on a Windows PC. I opened it on the Surface Pro in Internet Explorer. Mom can start a letter on her Mac, edit it on her iPad and send it to Dad’s Windows XP PC for some final edits. (Dad is afraid of upgrading his system. But that’s a topic for another column.)
但是，新的Mac版Pages和iPad以及iPhone版Pages完全一样。苹果现在还推出了一款能在任何现代浏览器上良好运行的Pages，哪怕在Windows PC上都可以。我在Surface Pro上用IE浏览器打开过它。这样，我母亲就可以在她的Mac上开始一封信，在iPad上进行编辑，然后再把它发送到父亲的Windows XP电脑上进行最后编辑。（我父亲很害怕系统升级。但这又是另外一个话题了。）
In fairness, Microsoft is no slouch in this area. The company has versions of Word for the Mac and the PC, though they look different. And a web-based version of Word, introduced recently as part of the company’s Office 365 software, is a good, pared-down likeness of the desktop counterparts. The company supports minimal editing of documents on iPhones or Android phones, but it does not have a full version of Word for iPads or Android devices. For now, the company reserves that for Microsoft’s own tablets, although it has announced that an iPad version is coming.
平心而论，微软在这方面也毫不逊色。微软的Word既有Mac版也有PC版，两个版本外观不同。它最近推出的网页版Word是Office 365软件的组成部分，这个版本的Word和台式电脑的版本同样好用，只是经过简化。微软支持在iPhone或Android手机上对文件进行极其有限的编辑，但是它并没有用于iPad或Android设备的Word完整版。目前，微软只提供用于微软平板电脑的Word完整版，虽然它此前曾宣布即将推出iPad版。
ROUND 3: SHARING O.K., let’s say it. The reason most people don’t switch from Word is that everyone else they know uses it. Sending a Pages document to a friend who doesn’t have the program installed has been an exercise in both futility and frustration that always leads to the same sentence: “I can’t open that document you sent me.”
第三回合：分享功能 我把实话说出来吧。大多数人不愿意放弃使用Word的原因是，他们认识的所有人都在用Word。如果你向朋友发送Pages文件，但这位朋友并没有安装这个软件，那么这个举动既是徒劳，又令人沮丧，我们往往会看到同一句话：“你发来的文件我打不开。”
The new version of Pages introduces an all-new sharing option, powered by the company’s iCloud service, that works remarkably well. Type in a person’s email address, click send, and that person receives a link to your document. When the link is clicked, the document opens in a web browser that looks like a fully functioning Pages application.
新版Pages增加了全新的分享功能，由苹果的iCloud服务提供支持，它的表现非同凡响。输入别人的电子邮箱地址，然后点击发送，对方就能收到这个文件的链接。点击链接时，文件就会在看起来和Pages应用程序没有太大区别的网络浏览器里打开。
The new version of iWork, which includes Pages, Numbers and Keynote, is free for anyone who buys a new Mac, iPad or iPhone. Others can buy the three programs for $9.95 each on the iPad and $19.95 each on the Mac. The updated features for Pages — the new appearance, sharing and compatibility — also apply to Numbers and Keynote. That makes them attractive options, especially considering that a subscription to Microsoft’s Office 365 Home Premium costs $99.99 a year, and you have to pay every year.
iWork包括Pages、Numbers和Keynote，新版的iWork可以免费提供给购买新Mac、iPad和iPhone的用户。对于其他用户，iPad版和Mac版iWork的售价分别为9.95美元（约合60元人民币）和19.95美元。Pages中的升级特性——新外观、分享功能和兼容性——在Numbers和Keynote中也有。这增加了它们的吸引力，尤其是考虑到成为微软Office 365家庭高级版(Office 365 Home Premium)的注册用户需要缴纳99.99美元的年费，这笔钱可是每年都要交。
But the Apple programs are not for everyone.
但是，苹果的程序并不适合每个人。
Pages seems like a bad choice for anyone who works in an office environment dominated by colleagues with Microsoft Word on their computers. Even though co-workers could open the Pages documents, they most likely won’t want to, just because it’s not their default. And going back and forth between formats is still a pain in the neck.
如果你办公室里的大部分同事用的都是微软的Word，那么Pages对你来说似乎就不太理想。就算你的同事能打开Pages文档，他们也很可能不愿意这么做，就因为这不是他们的默认方式。而且，在各种格式之间来回切换依然还是件让人头疼的事。
The new version of Pages may also frustrate people with highly specific needs. In trying to make the different versions of Pages identical, the company decided to remove many editing and formatting tools that had been in its previous Mac software. 
新版Pages或许也会让需求非常特殊的用户感到沮丧。为了让不同版本的Pages变得一致，苹果决定移除之前的Mac软件里的许多编辑和格式工具。
And as with any software, there are still frustrations: Creating a document in the web-based Pages, which is technically still labeled a “beta” service, leaves the user wondering just how to give the new document a name. And sending a copy of a document, instead of a link, is more difficult than it should be.
和任何软件一样，它仍然有瑕疵：在Pages网页版（理论上它仍是个打着“beta”测试标签的服务）上创建新文档之后，用户根本不知道该如何给新文件命名。此外，发送文件副本（而非链接）不应该那么麻烦。
Still, for many people who own a Mac and an iPad, Pages can now legitimately serve as their only word-processing software. They may even find they like it better than Word.
尽管如此，对于许多Mac和iPad所有者来说，Pages现在可以顺理成章地作为他们唯一的文字处理软件。他们甚至会发现，自己更喜欢Pages，而不是Word。