Most women with ovarian cancer receive inadequate care and miss out on treatments that could add a year or more to their lives, a new study has found.
一项新的研究发现，大多数患有卵巢癌的女性都没有得到足够的医疗服务，从而错过了能够将她们的生命延长一年或更长的治疗。
The results highlight what many experts say is a neglected problem: widespread, persistent flaws in the care of women with this disease, which kills 15,000 a year in the United States. About 22,000 new cases are diagnosed annually, most of them discovered at an advanced stage and needing aggressive treatment. Worldwide, there are about 200,000 new cases a year.
这些结果凸显了许多专家口中的被忽视问题：对卵巢癌女性患者的治疗长期存在普遍性漏洞，美国每年死于该疾病的人数达1.5万人。每年确诊的新增病例在2.2万例左右，其中大多数被发现时已经是晚期，需要进行积极治疗。从世界范围来看，每年约有20万例新增病例。
Cancer specialists around the country say the main reason for the poor care is that most women are treated by doctors and hospitals that see few cases of the disease and lack expertise in the complex surgery and chemotherapy that can prolong life.
美国各地的癌症专家说，医疗服务水平低下的主要原因在于，为大多数卵巢癌女性患者提供服务的医生及医院见过的卵巢癌病例都不多，所以他们在能够延长患者生命的复杂手术和化疗方面缺乏专业技术。
“If we could just make sure that women get to the people who are trained to take care of them, the impact would be much greater than that of any new chemotherapy drug or biological agent,” said Dr. Robert E. Bristow, the director of gynecologic oncology at the University of California, Irvine, and lead author of the new study presented on Monday at a meeting of the Society of Gynecologic Oncology in Los Angeles.
“如果我们能确保，这些女性可以得到受过专门训练的医护人员的照料，其效果将会比任何新型化疗药物或生物制剂好得多，”加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)妇科肿瘤科主任、这项新研究的主要论文作者罗伯特·E·布里斯托博士(Dr. Robert E. Bristow)说。周一，他在洛杉矶举行的美国妇科肿瘤协会(Society of Gynecologic Oncology)的一次会议上展示了这项研究。
The study found that only a little more than a third of patients received the best possible care, confirming a troubling pattern that other studies have also documented.
研究发现，只有三分之一多一点的患者得到了目前最好的治疗，从而验证了其他研究也曾记录过的令人担忧的情况。
Karen Mason, 61, from Pitman, N.J., had been a nurse for 28 years when she was found to have ovarian cancer in 2001. She scheduled surgery with her gynecologist, who was not a cancer surgeon.
61岁的卡伦·梅森(Karen Mason)来自新泽西州皮特曼，她在2001年发现患有卵巢癌时，已经当了28年的护士。她和她的妇科医生约定了手术时间，而这个医生并非癌症方面的外科医生。
But her sisters would not allow it. They had gone on the Internet, and became convinced — rightly, according to experts — that she should go to a major cancer center.
但是，她的姐妹不允许她接受这次手术。她们上网查询了专家意见后开始确信，她应该去大型癌症中心就诊。事实证明她们是正确的。
“They took the reins out of my hands,” Ms. Mason said.
梅森说，“她们替我做了决定。”
She wound up having a long, complicated and successful operation performed by a gynecologic oncologist, which she does not believe her gynecologist could have done.
她最终接受了一名妇瘤科医生的手术，这次手术耗时很长、过程复杂，但却非常成功，而她不认为她的妇科医生能够做这种手术。
Dr. Barbara A. Goff, a professor of gynecologic oncology at the University of Washington, in Seattle, who was not part of Dr. Bristow’s study, said the problem with ovarian cancer care was clear: “We’re not making the most use of things that we know work well.”
位于西雅图的华盛顿大学(University of Washington)妇科肿瘤学教授芭芭拉·A·戈夫博士(Dr. Barbara A. Goff)说，卵巢癌治疗方面的问题很明显：“我们明知道有些方法效果很好，却没有充分利用。”戈夫博士并未参与布里斯托的研究。
What works best is meticulous, extensive surgery and aggressive chemotherapy. Ovarian cancer spreads inside the abdomen, and studies have shown that survival improves if women have surgery called debulking, to remove all visible traces of the disease. Taking out as much cancer as possible gives the drugs a better chance of killing whatever is left. The surgery may involve removing the spleen, parts of the intestine, stomach and other organs, as well as the reproductive system.
效果最好的治疗方法是，谨慎而彻底的手术加上积极化疗。卵巢癌通常会在腹腔内扩散，研究表明，如果女性接受减瘤术来移除卵巢癌的所有可见痕迹，她们的生命就会被延长。倘若能尽可能多地取出癌细胞，药物就能更好地消灭残余物质。该手术可能需要切除脾脏，肠道、胃和其他器官的一部分，以及生殖系统。
The operations should be done by gynecologic oncologists, said Dr. Deborah Armstrong of Johns Hopkins University, who is not a surgeon. But many women, she said, are operated on by general surgeons and gynecologists.
约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)的德博拉·阿姆斯特朗博士(Dr. Deborah Armstrong)说，手术应该由妇瘤科医生来做，但是为很多女性做手术的都是普通外科医生和妇科医生。阿姆斯特朗博士本人并不是外科医生。
Some women prefer the obstetricians who delivered their children. Many are desperate to start treatment and think there is no time to find a specialist. Some do not know that gynecologic oncologists exist. Some inexperienced doctors may find the cancer unexpectedly during surgery and try to remove it, but not do a thorough job.
一些女性更愿意让为她们接生的产科医生来负责手术。很多人心急如焚地开始接受治疗，认为自己已没有时间来寻找专家。一些人甚至不知道妇瘤科医生的存在。一些经验不足的医生也可能会在手术中出乎意料地发现恶性肿瘤并试图摘除，但完成得并不彻底。
“If this was breast cancer, and two-thirds of women were not getting guideline care that improves survival, you know what kind of hue and cry there would be,” said Dr. Armstrong, who was not involved in the study. But in ovarian cancer, she said: “There’s not as big an advocacy community. The women are a little older, sicker and less prone to be activists.”
“如果乳腺癌患者中三分之二的女性无法获得可以改善生存几率的合格医疗服务，你知道这会激发多大的愤怒和抗议，”没有参与此项研究的阿姆斯特朗说。但对于卵巢癌，她说，“卵巢癌的倡导团体规模不大，患病女性年纪也更大、病情更重，因而更不容易成为活动人士。”
Dr. Bristow said women should ask surgeons how often they operate on women with ovarian cancer and how often they achieve complete debulking. But he also acknowledged that many patients hesitate to ask for fear of offending the doctor who may operate on them.
布里斯托博士说，女性应该询问她们外科医生多长时间进行一次卵巢癌手术及减瘤术获得完全成功的几率。但他也承认，很多患者不愿询问，因为他们担心这样做会冒犯了可能会为他们做手术的医生。
Ovarian cancer has unusual traits that make it more treatable than some other cancers. It is less likely to spread through the bloodstream and lymph system to distant organs like the lungs and brain. The tumors do spread, but usually within the abdomen and pelvis, where they tend to coat other organs but not eat into them and destroy them, said Dr. Matthew A. Powell, a gynecologic oncologist and associate professor at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.
卵巢癌有一些不同寻常的特征，这让它比其他癌症更好治疗。卵巢癌更不太可能通过血液和淋巴系统转移至远距离的器官，如肺部和脑部等。华盛顿大学圣路易斯医学院(Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis)的妇瘤科医生马修·A·鲍威尔博士(Matthew A. Powell)说，卵巢癌细胞也会扩散，但通常只是在腹腔及盆腔内，且癌细胞只倾向于附着在其他器官表面，而不是进入器官内部并造成破坏。
And most ovarian cancers are extremely sensitive to chemotherapy, experts said.
专家称，大多数卵巢癌患者对化疗都极其敏感。
In 2006, a study was published that many doctors thought would change the field forever. It compared standard intravenous chemotherapy with a regimen that pumped the drugs directly into the abdomen. The test regimen was highly toxic, and not all patients could tolerate it. But median survival on it was 65.6 months, compared with 49.7 months on the standard treatment — a survival difference of 15.9 months.
2006年，一项研究面世，很多医生都认为该研究会永远改变这一领域。该研究对标准静脉化疗和直接向腹腔注射药物的疗法进行了比较。试验疗法毒性很高，并不是所有的患者都能承受，但这种疗法中位生存期是65.6月，而标准疗法是49.7月，相差15.9月。
The gain was huge, almost unheard of. New cancer drugs are often approved if they buy patients just a few months. The test treatment — called intraperitoneal, or IP therapy — did not even use new drugs. It just gave the old ones in a different way. 
这项研究发现非常重大，几乎前所未闻。如果新研发的抗癌药物能延长患者生命数月时间，该药物通常就能获批。而试验疗法——被称为腹腔疗法，或IP疗法——甚至不用使用新药。这种疗法只是使用老药的新方法。
Seven years later, Dr. Armstrong and other physicians said, IP therapy still has not caught on.
七年之后，阿姆斯特朗博士和其他内科医生称，IP疗法还没有盛行起来。
Part of the reason may involve money, Dr. Armstrong said. With IP chemotherapy, patients also need a lot of intravenous fluids, which means unusually long treatment sessions. Oncologists are paid for treatments, not for time, so for those in private practice, long sessions can eat away at income.
一部分原因是费用，阿姆斯特朗博士说。采用腹腔化疗法时，患者还需要大量静脉输液，这意味着超长的治疗时间。癌症医生是按治疗次数收费，而不是按时间收费，因此对那些私人诊所来说，治疗时间太长会有损收入。
“You don’t make a lot of money with somebody in the chair getting IV fluids,” Dr. Armstrong said. “Chair time is money. I’m being a cynic here, but I think that is part of the issue.”
“让患者坐在椅子上输液，这样是不能赚大钱的，”阿姆斯特朗博士说，“坐椅子的时间也是钱。我这样说有点太现实，但我觉得这是其中一部分原因。”
Dr. Goff said: “Where I live, in the Pacific Northwest, IP chemotherapy is pretty much only being done in the major medical centers, and by very few private-practice oncologists. Many say it’s too difficult, and they don’t even offer it to patients, which I think is unethical.”
戈夫博士说，“在我生活的太平洋西北地区，腹腔化疗在很大程度上只被大型医疗中心和极少一部分私人肿瘤医生采用。很多人说这种疗法很难，甚至不向患者提供，我认为这很没有医德。”