BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Brunei — Myanmar, until two years ago a pariah, on Thursday formally accepted the top post of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, an affirmation of the country’s new position on the international stage.
文莱斯里巴加湾——周四，两年前还孤立于国际社会之外的缅甸正式接任东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）轮值主席国，这是对其在国际舞台上全新地位的一次肯定。
At the close of the East Asia Summit here, Myanmar’s president, Thein Sein, accepted the gavel of Asean, and with it the responsibility of hosting the summit meeting a year from now in Myanmar’s little-known, newly built and remote capital, Naypyidaw.
本地举行的东亚峰会闭幕之时，缅甸总统登盛（Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）接过象征东盟轮值主席国地位的小木槌，承担起了一年后举办东亚峰会的责任，会址将是缅甸鲜为人知、地处偏远的新建首都内比都。
This year’s East Asia Summit, a broad forum of 18 countries including 10 from Asean, closed on an upbeat note of calls for stronger economic cooperation and for increased attention to nonproliferation. Sharp disagreements over the South China Sea, where China and some of its neighbors have competing territorial claims, were more muted, although that did not mean the differences had been shelved, participants said.
东亚峰会是一个覆盖范围颇广的论坛，共有包括东盟10国在内的18个国家参加。今年的会议在积极的氛围中结束，与会国呼吁加强经济合作，加大对核不扩散的关注。一些与会人员表示，有关南海的严重分歧表现得不太明显，但这并不意味着争端已被搁置。中国和一些邻国在南海存在领土主权争端。
In remarks to the Asian leaders, Secretary of State John Kerry, who represented the United States at the summit meeting after President Obama canceled because of the budget standoff with Republicans, said that countries with claims in the sea had a “responsibility to clarify and align their claims with international law.” He added, “They can engage in arbitration and other means of peaceful negotiation.”
奥巴马因与共和党人的预算僵局而取消会议行程之后，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)代表美国出席此次峰会。在对亚洲领导人的讲话中，克里表示，在该海域申索主权的各国“有责任根据国际法明确其主权主张，并使其符合国际法规定”。克里补充称，“这些国家可以寻求仲裁，或者其他的和平谈判方式。”
Mr. Kerry also called for respect for “unimpeded commerce, freedom of navigation” and said the rights of all nations “large and small must be respected.”
克里同时呼吁，各方应尊重“自由通商和自由通航的局面”，并且表示，所有国家的权利“都必须得到尊重，无论国家大小。”
Mr. Kerry also had been scheduled to take Mr. Obama’s place on a visit to the Philippines on Friday, but Mr. Kerry’s trip was canceled Thursday, too, because of a typhoon approaching Manila. Mr. Kerry promised the country’s foreign secretary, Albert del Rosario, that he was “absolutely committed to returning in a month or so.” Ties between the Philippines and the United States are “literally unbreakable,” Mr. Kerry said.
按照此前的计划，克里还将于周五代替奥巴马访问菲律宾，然而，克里的这段行程也于周四取消，原因是一场正在靠近马尼拉的台风。克里向菲律宾外长阿尔韦特·德尔罗萨里奥(Albert del Rosario)承诺，他“肯定会尽力在差不多一个月后回来”。菲律宾和美国之间的纽带是“真正意义上的坚不可摧”，克里说。
The Philippines, backed by the United States, its treaty ally, made a clear stand on the need for Asean as a group to resolve the disputes with China on a legal basis. In contrast, in a speech on Wednesday, the Chinese prime minister, Li Keqiang, said China would continue to have consultations with Asean countries, a phrasing that sidestepped the call for dealing with the differences under the umbrella of Asean.
在条约盟友美国的支持之下，菲律宾明确了自身立场，认为东盟需要以团体身份依法解决同中国的争端。与此相反，中国总理李克强在周三的发言中称，中国将继续和东盟各国开展协商，这一措辞回避了要求在东盟组织下统一解决分歧的呼声。
Many of the delegates in Brunei were looking ahead to next year’s summit meeting in Myanmar’s capital, a city carved out of the country’s northern plains and a five-hour ride from the old capital, Yangon. Most of the residents are civil servants whose lives revolve around government buildings, hastily constructed apartments and a motley collection of retail stores.
到文莱参会的许多代表已开始展望明年在缅甸首都举行的峰会，那是一座在缅甸北部平原上建造的城市，距离该国旧首都仰光有大约五小时车程。那里的大多数居民都是政府雇员，他们的生活在政府大楼、快速建造的公寓楼，以及五花八门的零售商店之间循环。
Myanmar has long wanted the top post of Asean, and to achieve it the country had to show progress in improving its human rights record. The position for 2014 was granted to Myanmar in 2011 — it was passed over for the post several years earlier — after the government released several hundred political prisoners and freed the pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, from house arrest.
缅甸长期希望成为东盟轮值主席国，为实现这一目标，缅甸必须展示其在改善人权记录方面的进步。2011年，缅甸政府释放了几百名政治犯，并释放了被软禁的民主运动领袖昂山素季，由此获得了2014年轮值主席国的位子。此前几年，这个位子都跳过了缅甸。
The leader of Myanmar told Mr. Kerry in a meeting on Thursday that Myanmar would release the last political prisoners by the end of this year, a senior State Department official said.
一名美国国务院(State Department)高级官员表示，周四会晤期间，缅甸领导人告诉克里，缅甸将于今年年底前释放最后一批政治犯。
After decades of international isolation, and a depressed economy, Myanmar’s ability to manage the logistics of many meetings, and then two summits meetings — of Asean, and the East Asia Summit — in the fall of 2014 would be a test, officials said. To help out, Myanmar has asked diplomats from Singapore, Thailand and South Korea for advice, they said.
官员们表示，被国际社会孤立数十年并经历经济萧条之后，缅甸将在2014年秋季迎来考验，考验该国处理大量会议及两大峰会——东盟峰会和东亚峰会(East Asia Summit)——后勤事务的能力。他们说，为了解决难题，缅甸已经向新加坡、泰国及韩国的外交官征询建议。
The logistical challenge of being a host is not the only problem for Myanmar.
对于缅甸来说，主办峰会的后勤挑战并不是唯一的问题。
After operating for years as a law unto itself outside the sphere of international standards, Myanmar’s government will have to balance the nation’s diplomacy — an effort to get closer to the United States and Europe while keeping China on its side — with leadership of Asean, Myanmar officials said.
缅甸官员表示，在国际标准之外自行其是多年之后，缅甸政府将需要在该国的外交策略——拉近与美国及欧洲的关系，同时把中国留在自己这边——与东盟的领导权之间进行权衡。
Asean has long worked on the premise that countries cannot intervene in each other’s domestic affairs, and consensus must be reached on all policies. Myanmar will be at the center of trying to forge consensus, especially among members that lean toward China and those that do not.
长期以来，东盟开展工作的前提一直是互不干涉内政，同时必须就所有政策达成共识。缅甸将在努力达成共识的过程之中扮演主要角色，特别是促使那些支持中国以及持相反态度的成员国达成共识。
“The first challenge is how we can adjust Myanmar’s foreign policy,” said U Zaw Htay, a director at the Myanmar President’s Office. Myanmar will be responsible for shepherding Asean’s policies on the South China Sea, the group’s relationship with the United States and China, and the goal of achieving an Asean economic community by 2015.
缅甸总统办公室主任佐泰(U Zaw Htay)说：“我们面临的第一个挑战是如何调整缅甸的外交政策。”缅甸将负责引领东盟制定相关政策，政策涉及南海问题、东盟与美国及中国的关系，以及在2015年前建成东盟经济共同体的目标。
Myanmar would like to rally behind the Asean members on the South China Sea issue, said U Min Zin, a scholar at the University of California at Berkeley, who is now in Yangon. At the same time, he said, Myanmar has to be careful of China, its chief economic benefactor but unpopular among the Myanmar public.
目前在仰光的加州大学伯克利分校(University of California at Berkeley)学者敏辛(U Min Zin)表示，缅甸的意愿是在南海问题上支持东盟成员国。敏辛表示，与此同时，缅甸必须谨慎对待中国，中国是缅甸的主要经济资助国，但在缅甸不得人心。
Myanmar will also have to deal with the violence between Muslims and Buddhists in central and western parts of the country, which if left unchecked could mar its image as well as its ability to run the 10-nation group. Last week, groups of Buddhists killed at least six Muslims in Thandwe in the west.
缅甸还需要处理该国中西部地区穆斯林与佛教徒之间的暴力冲突问题，如果冲突得不到抑制，缅甸的形象将会受损，掌控十国集团的能力也会削弱。上周，一些佛教徒在缅甸西部的丹兑杀死了至少六名穆斯林。
“The most problematic issue for Myanmar is the anti-Muslim atmosphere,” said Mikael Gravers, an expert on Myanmar expert affairs at Aarhus University in Denmark, who is now in Myanmar. “Muslim countries of Asean are not comfortable with it.”
“对于缅甸来说，最棘手的问题在于反穆斯林的氛围，”现在缅甸的丹麦奥胡斯大学(Aarhus University)缅甸事务专家米卡埃尔·格雷夫斯(Mikael Gravers)说，“这让东盟当中的穆斯林国家感到不适。”