One of the world’s leading suppliers of dairy products said Saturday that a type of bacteria that could cause botulism had been found in tests of ingredients the company sells for use in infant formula and sports drinks, leading New Zealand officials to urge a recall.
周六，全球领先的乳制品供应商之一称在其销售的用于生产婴儿配方奶粉和运动饮料的原料检测中发现了一种细菌，细菌可能导致肉毒杆菌中毒。此事迫使新西兰官员敦促其召回产品。
The company, Fonterra, is based in New Zealand and is the world’s fourth-largest dairy company. It sells its milk products to other companies that make infant formula and said those companies would be responsible for any recalls. The New Zealand Ministry of Primary Industries said that in addition to New Zealand, six countries were affected: Australia, China, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Thailand and Vietnam.
涉事公司是总部位于新西兰的恒天然(Fonterra)，该公司是全球第四大乳制品企业，向其他一些公司出售用于生产婴儿配方奶粉的乳制品。该公司表示，那些公司将负责召回产品。新西兰初级产业部(Ministry of Primary Industries)称，除新西兰外，受影响的还有另外六个国家，分别是澳大利亚、中国、马来西亚、沙特阿拉伯、泰国和越南。
Botulism is a rare but serious illness caused by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum. Even tiny amounts of this toxin can lead to severe poisoning.
肉毒杆菌中毒是肉毒杆菌引起的一种疾病，虽然罕见，但却很严重。微量毒素便可导致重度中毒。
“We are acting quickly,” the company’s chief executive, Theo Spierings, said in a statement. “Our focus is to get information out about potentially affected product as fast as possible so that it can be taken off supermarket shelves and, where it has already been purchased, can be returned.”
“我们正在快速行动，”该公司首席执行官西奥·史毕根斯(Theo Spierings)在一份声明中说，“我们的重点是尽快得到可能受污染的产品的信息，这样那些产品就能从超市下架，已售出的产品也可退回。”
Infant formula from New Zealand is in huge demand in China, largely because of concerns about the quality of domestic formula there, particularly since milk formula tainted with melamine led to the deaths of several babies and sickened thousands more in 2008. Fonterra owned part of one of the companies involved in that scandal, but that company, Sanlu, has since been shut down.
中国对来自新西兰的婴儿配方奶粉的需求很大，这主要是因为消费者对国产婴儿配方奶粉质量的担忧。2008年，受三聚氰胺污染的婴儿配方奶粉造成几个孩子死亡及数千孩子患病，加剧了中国消费者的担忧。恒天然拥有当时卷入那起丑闻的一家公司的部分股份，不过，名为三鹿的那家涉事公司如今已经倒闭。
After Fonterra raised alarms about the bacteria found in its milk products, the Chinese General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, which polices food safety, ordered importers in China to recall any products that might carry the bacteria, the group said on its Web site. China is a major buyer of New Zealand’s food products, especially infant formula and other dairy goods. The agency said it “promptly contacted the New Zealand Embassy to China and demanded that New Zealand take immediate measures to prevent problem products harming the health of Chinese consumers.”
恒天然集团在其网站上称，在该集团就检测中发现的细菌发出警报后，负责监督食品安全的中国国家质量监督检验检疫总局命令中国进口商召回任何可能携有该细菌的产品。中国是新西兰食品的主要买家，尤其是婴儿配方奶粉和其他乳制品。质检总局称其“立即与新西兰驻华使馆取得联系，要求新方立即采取措施，防止问题产品影响中国消费者健康”。
This year, Fonterra began preparing to sell its own infant formula in China, including building an ultrahigh-temperature milk manufacturing plant there, aiming to sell a quarter-billion gallons of milk in the country by 2018, company officials told Chinese state news media in April.
今年4月，恒天然公司管理人员曾告诉中国官方媒体，该公司已于今年着手准备，打算在中国出售自己的婴儿配方食品，包括在中国建造超高温牛奶加工厂，计划到2018年在中国售出2.5亿加仑的牛奶。
At a news conference on Saturday, Fonterra officials said that Mr. Spierings had been sent to China to deal with the issue.
恒天然管理人员在周六的新闻发布会上表示，史毕根斯已经被派到中国处理该问题。
Fonterra officials said the problem involved three batches of a whey protein concentrate produced at a New Zealand manufacturing site in May 2012.
恒天然管理人员表示，这次发现的问题涉及新西兰一家工厂在2012年5月生产的三批浓缩乳清蛋白。
Officials first noticed a quality-control problem in March. The company then conducted more intensive tests, and on Wednesday workers found signs of the presence of Clostridium botulinum in a sample. Investigators have tied the problem to unsterilized pipes, which officials said had since been cleaned.
今年3月，管理人员首次注意到质量控制问题。然后，该公司进行了更为密集的检测，工人们于周三在一个样本中发现了肉毒杆菌存在的迹象。调查人员认为该问题由未杀菌的管道引起，官员们称这些管道随后已得到清理。
While Fonterra did not name the companies that it had alerted to the problem, the New Zealand Ministry for Primary Industries identified one product sold within the country: Nutricia Karicare follow-on formula products for children ages 6 months and older.
虽然恒天然公司没有指出它警告了哪些公司注意该问题，但新西兰初级产业部指明了一种在新西兰出售的产品：纽迪希亚(Nutricia)可瑞康(Karicare)牌适用于六个月及以上儿童的2段配方奶粉。
The ministry “has been advised that in the case of the Nutricia Karicare, five batches of follow-on formula were manufactured using the contaminated whey protein,” said Scott Gallacher, the ministry’s acting director, adding that parents using the product should instead “use infant formula for children aged 0-6 months, ready-made formulas or alternative brands.”
新西兰初级产业部代理局长斯科特·加拉赫(Scott Gallacher)表示，该机构“已经获得通知，有五个批次的可瑞康牌2段婴儿配方奶粉使用了含有肉毒杆菌的乳清蛋白粉”。他补充称，使用这种产品的家长应该转而“使用适用于0-6月龄的婴儿配方奶粉、现成奶粉，或者改用其他品牌”。