SYDNEY — A powerful earthquake measuring 7.8 magnitude hit the east coast of New Zealand’s South Island just before midnight there on Sunday, triggering multiple aftershocks and tsunami waves and killing at least two people, officials said.
悉尼——就在周日午夜之前，新西兰南岛东海岸发生了7.8级强震，引发了多次余震和海啸。官员说至少有两人在地震中遇难。
Ministry of Civil Defense and Emergency Management officials warned people living near the coast to move inland to higher ground as tsunami waves raised seawater levels in some places by about six feet. Officials in Wellington, the capital, urged people to stay out of its central business district until the risk of damage to its buildings could be assessed.
民防和紧急情况管理部(Ministry of Civil Defense and Emergency Management)的官员警告说，住在海岸附近的人需要撤离到内陆高处，因为在一些地方，海啸波令海平面升高了约6英尺（约1.8米）。首都惠灵顿的官员敦促人们离开中央商业区，直到那里的建筑物受损风险评估结果出来。
Prime Minister John Key said the earthquake had killed at least two people, but he offered no specifics, Reuters reported.
路透社报道称，新西兰总理约翰·基(John Key)表示至少有两人在地震中丧生，但他没有提供具体信息。
“We don’t have any indications at the moment to believe it will rise, but we can’t rule that out,” Key said of the death toll, speaking to reporters in Wellington.
“目前没有任何迹象显示这个数字会上升，但我们也不能排除这一点，”基在惠灵顿谈到死亡人数时对记者说。
The New Zealand Herald reported that one of the deaths had resulted from a heart attack and that another had taken place on a historic homestead near the beach town of Kaikoura.
据《新西兰先驱报》(The New Zealand Herald)报道，其中一人的死因是心肌梗塞，另一起死亡事件发生在海滨城市凯库拉(Kaikoura)附近一处古老的宅邸。
“There are some reports of casualties in the Kaikoura area, but just exactly what the extent of that is is not yet reported,” Gerry Brownlee, the country’s acting minister of civil defense, told reporters. He said that the extent of property damage “will become clearer, I suspect, with daylight.”
“凯库拉地区的伤亡状况已经有一些统计，但到底严重到什么程度还不知道，”民防部的代理部长格里·布朗利(Gerry Brownlee)告诉记者。他说，财产损失的程度“我认为在今天白天会了解到更多”。
The earthquake struck about 50 miles southwest of Kaikoura and 50 miles north of Christchurch. Elliot Fim, a regional official in that city, said in a telephone interview that there were no reports of damage, injuries or fatalities. The fire department was dealing with a large number of emergency calls seeking assistance.
地震震源在凯库拉西南约50英里（约80公里），基督城(Christchurch)以北约50英里。基督城的地方政府官员埃利奥特·费姆(Elliot Fim)在接受电话采访时说，目前尚没有人员伤亡和财产受损的统计。消防部门正在处理大量紧急求助电话。
Fim said people living along about 200 miles of coastline had been evacuated. Some roadways and a building were reported damaged, but people had been able to move to high ground. A spokesman for the Wellington Region Emergency Management office said there were reports of minor damage in the capital city.
费姆说，海岸线上大约200英里（约320公里）内的居民已经疏散。一些道路和一座建筑物遭到了破坏，但人们可以撤离到更高的地区去。惠灵顿地区紧急事务管理办公室的发言人说，首都有轻微损害的报告记录。
Dan Jaksa, a duty officer from Geoscience Australia, said that if the small townships north of Christchurch did not have earthquake-resistant buildings, “it is going to be tough.”
澳大利亚地质局(Geoscience Australia)的值班员丹·吉克萨（Dan Jaksa）说，如果基督城以北的那些小镇没有抗震建筑，“状况会比较糟糕”。