IF anyone has a right to feel on top of the world, it’s Howard Stern — especially inside his elegant, cumulus-high apartment on the West Side of Manhattan, dominated by a solariumlike living room with views on one side extending far up the Hudson and the other encompassing the entire bucolic breadth of Central Park.
要说谁有资格享受身处世界之巅的感觉，那肯定是霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)了。特别是在曼哈顿西区他那套直入云端的公寓里，如同日光浴室一般的客厅，一边能欣赏哈德逊河流向远方，另一边则饱览中央公园田园诗般的美景。
This is the aerie of a hugely successful man, which certainly describes Mr. Stern. Six years ago he cashed in decades of radio notoriety when he moved to the satellite-radio service Sirius (now Sirius XM) in one of the most lucrative deals in the history of show business, with an estimated worth in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
这真是一个非一般成功的男人的家啊，正合斯特恩的身份。6年前，他签下了美国娱乐业史上最昂贵的合同之一，加入天狼星电台（Sirius XM）的卫星频道，据估算合约价值数亿美元，把自己几十年的电台广播界威名兑换成了商业利益。
But when Mr. Stern says, “I feel blessed, I really feel fulfilled,”  he’s talking about the sum of his career, not his salary.
斯特恩说：“我感到幸运，我真的觉得很满足。”不过，他说的是他的整个职业生涯，而不是他挣得的薪酬。
And the reason he is talking about it at the moment is because his career has taken yet another turn, one he acknowledges he never expected.
现在他谈起这件事的原因，是他的职业生涯又迎来了一个转折，一个他从来没有预料到的转折。
“I had decided to slow down,” said Mr. Stern, who is 58, relaxing in that Imax-size living room on a couch long enough to contain his 6-foot-5-inch frame.  His 10-year-old English bulldog, Bianca, a constant and beloved companion, was by his side. (Beth Ostrosky, his second wife, was out at the moment.) “I was going to semiretire. I was doing three days on the radio a week, and that was enough for me. I was trying to get into photography — like a retired guy.”
“我本打算慢下来的，”58岁的斯特恩说。在他电影院一样大的客厅里，他靠在一张足够伸展他6英尺5英寸身躯的长沙发上。他多年的“伴儿”、10岁的斗牛犬碧安卡靠在他身旁。（他的第二任妻子贝丝·奥斯特洛斯基此刻正好不在家。）“我本打算半退休。每周去三天电台，对我来说这已经够了。我本打算开始玩摄影——就像个退休老人一样。”
Instead, as billboards all over the city and promotions all over NBC are proclaiming, Mr. Stern has embarked on another high-profile, high-wire adventure, joining the most popular summer series on television, “America’s Got Talent,” as its latest judge.
然而，城中铺天盖地的广告牌和NBC电视台的宣传却说，斯特恩已经开始了另一段高调的“走钢丝”冒险，他加入了夏季最火爆的电视节目《美国达人》（America’s Got Talent），担任最新一季的评委。
There’s a certain incongruity in the move, as Mr. Stern realizes. “Me going on a family-friendly show?” he asked.  (“America’s Got Talent,” a celebration of acts from singers to clowns to acrobats to much farther afield, definitely fits that description.) “I’m not crazy. I know there’s a huge population out there that thinks I’m going to come on and ruin the show.”
斯特恩也知道，这一次跨界多少有点突兀。他说：“让我上一个合家欢节目？”（作为一个拿歌手、小丑、杂技演员等不着边际的人物表演来做秀的节目，《美国达人》确实算得上合家欢。）“我不是傻子。我知道外面很多人会觉得，我上这个节目会把它搞砸。”
As if on cue, protests from organizations like the Parents Television Council (a longtime nemesis) started even before he officially joined the show. The council issued a statement suggesting the move would result in “the alienation of millions of families, and with it the alienation of tens of millions of advertising dollars,” and last week sent a letter to 91 NBC advertisers urging a formal boycott of the show.
就在这个时候，诸如电视家长协会（Parents Television Council，一个长期唱反调的协会）这样的组织甚至在他正式加盟该节目之前就已经发起抗议。协会发表了一份声明，说他的加入会造成“千千万万家庭对节目敬而远之，进而也让千千万万的广告收益远离”；上周该组织更是致信给91个NBC的广告客户，呼吁他们抵制该节目。
Mr. Stern has never really been fazed by organized opposition to his raw and rude comedy, which has been labeled everything from shocking and offensive to outrageous and groundbreaking. But this is a different time and, in many ways, a different Howard Stern.
斯特恩的搞笑风格向来赤裸、粗野——雷人、无礼、恶搞和另类都曾被用来形容他的幽默，而对于各种集体组织的反对，他素来不以为然。不过这一次不一样，在很多方面看来，这已经是一个不一样的霍华德·斯特恩。
“It would be really pathetic if I was still in the same space as when I was 20 or 30, when I felt threatened by everyone, and there was no room for anyone else on the radio,” he said. “I’ve come to appreciate other people’s talents.”
“如果我还停留在我20岁或30岁时的位置，那真的会很可悲。那时候我觉得所有人都在威胁我，电台也容不下任何其他人，”他说：“现在我已经开始懂得欣赏别人的才华。”
That would include competitors Mr. Stern once eviscerated. “I’ve actually apologized to some people I was a real jerk to, because I feel ashamed,” he said. “I didn’t need to be that hungry. There was something going on inside me when I was angry and feeling very threatened and not feeling good about myself.”
这也包括那些曾被他拿来开涮的人。“我确实向一些被我狠狠耍过的人道了歉，因为我觉得羞耻，”他说：“我其实犯不着那么过分。在过去，当我愤怒、感到被威胁或者自我感觉不好的时候，心里就开始蹿火。”
Even so, he conceded having “a lot of trepidation” about joining “America’s Got Talent” (though he noted that he has often appeared on network television, on programs like “Late Show With David Letterman,” and within the bounds of propriety). “This is a show that’s already successful,” Mr. Stern said. “I’ve never come into anything successful before. I’ve always been hired by horrible radio stations with horrendous reputations and nothing to lose.”
尽管如此，他还是承认，加盟《美国达人》让他“诚惶诚恐”（虽然他也说，他已经是电视台的常客，上过《大卫深夜秀》（Late Show with David Letterman）这样的节目，并且还都能循规蹈矩）。“而这是一个已经很成功的节目，”斯特恩说：“我以前从没加盟过任何成功的节目。雇用我的总是那些糟糕的电台节目，那些已经臭得不能再臭的。”
将《美国达人》当成崇高事业
So given semiretirement and his trepidation, why make this move now?
那么，既然诚惶诚恐，又本打算半退休，为什么还要决定加入呢？
Simple, Mr. Stern said: “I love the show.” He said he has been watching most of the network talent-competition shows avidly for years: “I’m fascinated by the whole judging thing. I would talk about this stuff regularly on my show.”
很简单，斯特恩说：“我喜欢这个节目。”他说他追看各种电视选秀节目已有多年：“评委这工作很吸引我。我不时都会在我的节目上聊这些东西。”
NBC executives heard those comments and believed them. Paul Telegdy, NBC’s top executive in the reality arena, said that once they met with Mr. Stern, “we realized we were in the company of an insane enthusiast for what we do.”
NBC的主管们也听过他的评论，并且相当买账。NBC真人秀舞台的最高主管保罗·泰勒迪（Paul Telegdy）说他们有一次遇见斯特恩：“我们发现这个人对我们所做的事情狂热到了痴迷的程度。”
Mr. Stern recalled:   “When they called I said: ‘Are you guys nuts? As much as I think I would be a good judge, and I’d love to do it, it’s a family show, and you’ve got to think of your audience.’ ”
斯特恩回忆说：“他们打电话来的时候，我就说：‘你们疯了吗？虽然我相信我会是个好评委，而且我也很想做，但这是个家庭节目，你得考虑你们的受众啊。’”
NBC was thinking of an audience, of course, the formidable one that follows Mr. Stern and might help to push its already popular show to new heights. “What we wanted to do was invest in the long-term future of the franchise,” Mr. Telegdy said. And the sharp ratings declines across television this season, including a plunge for the talent-competition titan “American Idol,” provided all the more reason to try to create some new excitement.
NBC当然是有考虑过受众的，他们考虑的就是追捧斯特恩的那一大群人，这或许可以将这个本来就很火的节目推上新的高峰。“我们想要做的是为这档版权节目的未来作长远投资，”泰勒迪说。本季整个电视界的收视率都在急剧下降，包括大型选秀节目《美国偶像》（American Idol）的收视也在跳水，这就更有理由去制造新的刺激。
It took months of negotiations — including an undisclosed salary agreement estimated at $20 million a year and NBC’s commitment to move the show from Los Angeles to New York to accommodate his radio schedule — before Mr. Stern chose to take up what he called “a noble cause”: giving unknowns a chance at a show-business career.
谈判持续了好几个月——包括签订了一个薪酬数额不公开的合同，据估计一年为2000万美元，并且NBC为了迁就斯特恩的电台节目时间表，将节目组从洛杉矶搬到了纽约。最后，斯特恩决定接受邀请，加入这个他所说的“崇高事业”：给藉藉无名的人一个加入娱乐圈的机会。
“I’ve been in radio for over 35 years, and to me that’s the biggest competition in the world,” Mr. Stern said, outlining the ferocity of facing off against every kind of format and host in that medium. “And I was a music director early in my career. So I feel like I have credibility, something to offer.”
“我在电台做了超过35年了，对我来说那是世界上竞争最激烈的地方，”斯特恩指出，在电台有各种各样的节目形式和主持人，你需要面对各种残酷竞争：“而我早期也做过音乐总监。所以我觉得我应该有点公信力，能带来一些东西。”
He has strong opinions, of course, many framed by what he has seen on other competition shows. He favors the unsentimental, honest judges, the ones “where you say, if it wasn’t for him I wouldn’t be watching,” he said. For Mr. Stern that means the man who defined that persona on “American Idol,” Simon Cowell (who is also the top producer on “America’s Got Talent”), L. A. Reid from “The X Factor” and especially Len Goodman of “Dancing With the Stars.”
当然，他确实有些尖锐的见解，大多是在他看其他选秀节目时形成的。他说，他喜欢坦诚而且不滥情的评委，那种你是“为了他才看”的人。对斯特恩来说，代表性的人物就是《美国偶像》的西蒙·考威尔（Simon Cowell）、《X音素》（The X Factor）的L.A.雷德（L.A. Reid），《与星共舞》（Dancing With the Stars）的伦·古德曼（Len Goodman）更是个中翘楚。
This is the kind of commentary Mr. Stern said that viewers should expect, though he added, “I’m not going to be a stereotype of the mean judge. I’m relying on straight talk.” He replaces Piers Morgan, who had a reputation for brutally frank assessments, and is working with the holdovers Howie Mandel and Sharon Osbourne.
斯特恩说观众从他那里也会听到同样类型的评述，不过他补充说：“我不会做那种一般意义上的毒舌评委，我依靠的是直言不讳。”他取代的是评论时出了名不客气的皮尔斯·摩根（Piers Morgan），而与他合作的则是继续担纲的霍伊·曼德尔（Howie Mandel）和莎朗·奥斯彭（Sharon Osbourne）。
So far at least, in tapings of the show, the relationships are working out. Ms. Osbourne, a longtime guest on Mr. Stern’s radio show, said in an e-mail message: “He is definitely a master at what he does.  I am intrigued at how 40-year-old-plus males in the audience continuously scream, ‘I love you Howard,’ and all the women want to have sex with him.”
到目前，至少从节目的录影素材来看，合作是成功的。奥斯彭女士是斯特恩电台节目的长期嘉宾，她在电邮中说：“他在他的专业上绝对是大师。让我吃惊的是有些40多岁的男观众会大声喊：‘霍华德，我爱你，’而所有的女人都想跟他上床。”
In an e-mail of his own, Mr. Mandel added: “I have nothing but positive things to say about working with Howard. Between him and me we are having more fun than a barrel of neurotic monkeys.”
曼德尔在电邮则说：“关于跟霍华德的合作，我能说的都是好话。我们一起玩的时候，比一群患了多动症的猴子还高兴。”
“America’s Got Talent” kicks off its new season on Monday with audition episodes taped in cities like Los Angeles; St. Louis; Austin, Tex.; and New York. “So much for slowing down,” Mr. Stern said.
新一季的《美国达人》在5月初开始了海选，节目在洛杉矶、圣路易斯、德州奥斯汀和纽约等地录制。斯特恩说：“想慢下来是没戏了。”
As for his approach to judging, he said he believed he was doing many of the performers a service. “They’re not going to be stars, and it requires somebody to say that to them. Some people get up and sing. I say to them: ‘Look, you are dull, and you’re not fun to look at. I went on radio because I wasn’t fun to look at.’ ” 
至于他的评委风格，他相信他的宗旨是帮演出者的忙。“他们不可能成为明星，总得有人去点醒他们。有些人上台一唱，我就说：‘看，你木头木脑，没什么看头。我去做电台的原因就是因为我没什么看头。’”
He mentioned being impressed by the wide variety of acts, ranging from a builder of improvised musical instruments to a shy opera singer. Some acts played to his anarchic sense of entertainment.
他提到，令他印象深刻的是那些广泛的表演形式。从即兴制造临时乐器到害羞地唱歌剧，当中的一些表演正契合了他对娱乐的理解，那就是尽可能胡闹。
“A guy came on, and his whole act was getting kicked” in an especially sensitive area, he recalled. “I’m telling you, it was the greatest act you’ve ever seen. I gave him a standing ovation.” The performance culminated with the man leaping crotch-first from a high point onto a balance beam. Mr. Stern’s face lit up at the memory. “I’m laughing hysterically. I would pay to see this.”
“有个男人上台，他的整个表演就是让人踢（他的敏感部位），”他回忆说，“我跟你说，那真是你看过最神的表演，我都为他起立鼓掌了。”那段表演的高潮是那个男人从高处跳下，用胯下落在平衡木上。斯特恩想起这一幕时一脸兴奋：“我都笑翻了，我会愿意花钱看这种表演。”
In chasing Mr. Stern an NBC goal was clearly to add humor. He acknowledged he provides that but noted, “Howie is the comedian on the show.”
很明显，NBC力邀斯特恩的目的是要加入幽默元素。他认为自己做到了，不过也指出：“霍伊才是这个节目的活宝。”
“I don’t do one-liners,” he added. “My attitude is what’s funny.”
“我不说俏皮话，”他说：“我搞笑的地方是我的态度。”
Mr. Stern said he would almost surely disappoint any watchdog seeking signs of how he might degrade the show.  “The most sexual reference I made was when a group of very attractive women got up and danced. They were awful. They had these bikini tops on, and I said: ‘You’ve got to do something with this act. It’s not going to fly. Maybe if your implants had all exploded, we would have gotten a kick out it.’ ”
斯特恩说，他几乎可以肯定，自己会让那些等着看他降低节目档次的观察家们失望。“我的评论跟性最有关系的一次，就是一组漂亮的女人上台跳舞，她们穿着比基尼，我就说：‘你们这场表演总得做点什么，这样不可能火。如果你们里面的硅胶爆出来的话，我们或许还能乐一把。’”
为了证明自己不是白痴
The audition audiences have been packed with his fans, and they have brought more noise and a different attitude at times. Mr. Stern said: “A sweet older couple had come on to do a dance act. It was the sweetest thing ever, and the audience is screaming. They wanted to chop their heads off. I turned around and said, ‘What is wrong with you people?’ ”
海选的观众当中满是他的粉丝，有时候他们的嗓门太大，有时候态度不合时宜。斯特恩说：“有一对幸福的老人上台跳了一段舞，表演温馨极了，而观众却在尖叫，想给他们捣乱。我就转过身去说：‘你们到底怎么回事啊？’”
If that sounds like a more sensitive Howard Stern, he presents himself that way on the air and in person, where he comes off as effortlessly gracious and sincere. That might seem at odds with his former image as the relentless self-promoter who often declared himself “the king of all media.” 
或许这算是霍华德·斯特恩细腻的一面，电台节目上的他和当面接触时的他，也就是这样一个人，时常不经意地流露出诚恳和亲切。这和他此前极力自我吹捧并且经常自诩“全媒体之王”的形象，似乎自相矛盾。
But there may be another reason for the equanimity. “I go to therapy three days a week, and it has actually really helped me. It’s not an easy road to take a good hard look at yourself, but I feel happier.”
然而这样的平和背后，或许还有另一个原因。“我每周去三次心理辅导，它真的帮了我。要好好地面对你自己并不是件容易的事，但我感觉比以前快乐了。”
Maybe it was the therapy or just the passage of time but Mr. Stern, who once disparaged radio as the lowest of the performance arts, now professes great satisfaction in his achievements. Of course his transition to satellite radio, where he has become far richer but much less widely heard, is still debated by fans and critics.
或许是心理辅导的作用，又或许只是时间的洗礼，曾经把电台贬斥为最低级表演的斯特恩，如今却声称对自己的成就感到满意。当然，他转向了卫星电台，挣钱比原来多得多，而听众覆盖面却小得多，粉丝和评论家仍为此争议不断。
Not by Mr. Stern, though. “I was literally going insane doing the show on terrestrial radio,” he said, blaming censors and what he called unacceptably heavy editing. “I felt I was losing what my mission statement was.”
只是这不包括斯特恩。“传统地面电台真的把我搞疯了，”他指责审查制度，还有在他看来不可忍受的过度剪辑，“我觉得我已经丢掉了我原来的业务宗旨。”
“Think of the guy, in his car, miserable driving to work,” he continued. “And I’m no longer feeling that guy was being properly entertained. So satellite was a saving grace for me.”
“想想一个坐在自己车里的人，正悲催地开车上班，”他继续说道：“我觉得他已经没法得到应有的娱乐了。所以卫星电台对我来说，是救世主。”
He takes pride in the expansion of satellite subscribers to about 21 million, and his own part in building that audience, even if a lawsuit he brought seeking a $300 million stock bonus from SiriusXM based on those totals was dismissed last month. (He is considering an appeal.)
美国订购卫星电台信号的人数扩大到了约2100万，尽管他以这个总数为依据向天狼星索取3亿美元股份分红的诉讼请求，在4月份被驳回（他正在考虑上诉），但他还是为自己在当中做出了贡献而感到自豪。
But his audience is smaller than it used to be. Radio audiences are notoriously difficult to quantify, but some analysts estimate he reaches about 3 million listeners now, as opposed to the approximately 12 million he had on terrestrial radio. That leads to inevitable speculation: Is he joining “America’s Got Talent” because he has lost some of his pop-cultural punch?
只是他的听众人数比原来少。众所周知，电台听众一向难以量化计算，有些分析人士估计他现在的听众大约达到300万，他过去在公共电台则有大约1200万。这又不可避免带出了一种揣测：他加入《美国达人》，是不是因为他之前在流行文化界失去了一部分影响力？
Sliding into the back of a black stretch limousine that had been waiting to deliver him to his dentist, Mr. Stern said the question is fair. “I’m sure there’s some psychological component you could explore to say there’s never enough fame, and you’re power hungry. But I didn’t feel that way anymore. I felt very successful.”
此时一辆黑色超长豪华轿车正等着送他去看牙医，他一边钻进车里，一边回答说这个问题问得很恰当。“我相信你可以从中挖掘一些心理因素，你可以说，名气是永远不嫌多的，而你很渴望权力。但我已经没有那种感觉了，我已经感觉非常成功。”
Mr. Stern does not argue that nothing drives him anymore. “There’s still a part of me that just wants to prove to my parents that I’m not an idiot,” he said.
这并非是说他已经没有任何动力。“我内心还有一点冲动，我只想证明给父母看，我不是个白痴，”他说道。
When “America’s Got Talent” shot auditions in New York, he invited his elderly parents to sit in the audience.
《美国达人》在纽约录影的时候，他曾邀请他年老的父母坐在观众席里观看。
“My father was very tough on me,” Mr. Stern said of his childhood. “He would call me a moron.” At the taping Mr. Stern decided that a singer had no talent and told him: “I’m going to do for you what my father did for me. I’m going to say, ‘Don’t be stupid, you moron.’ That’s my father’s line.”
“我父亲对我非常狠，”斯特恩说起他的童年：“他会说我是个白痴。”在录影当中，斯特恩认为其中一个歌手没有才华，于是告诉他：“我现在对你做的，也是我父亲曾对我做的。我要说：‘别傻了，白痴。’那是我父亲的原话。”
Then Mr. Stern called Ben, his 89-year-old father, up: “He comes onstage and he starts to lecture this guy. And he walked offstage lecturing him.”
然后，斯特恩把他89岁的老父亲叫上了台：“他走上台，然后开始向这个人训话，走下台还没停。”