ORMOC, Philippines —  Clouds of steam surge from fissures in the earth along the beds of mountain streams here that splash down slopes carpeted with coconut palm forests, hints of the enormous source of renewable energy that lies underground.
菲律宾奥尔莫克——山间的溪水从漫山遍野的椰林中飞溅而下，河床的裂隙里升腾起水雾缭绕的蒸汽，表明地下蕴藏着丰富的可再生资源。
Engineers have drilled a series of boreholes a mile down into hot volcanic rocks, tapping into superheated water under enormous pressure. The water surges to the surface, expands into steam and then cools, spinning a series of turbines that produce five times as much electricity as all of Leyte Island, with 1.5 million people, can consume. The rest of the electricity is sold to other islands in the Philippines.
工程师们往炽热的火山岩里打了一连串1英里（约合1.6公里）深的钻孔，通往处于巨大压力下的过热地下水。这些水涌上地表，膨胀成蒸汽，然后冷却，推动一系列涡轮机，发出的电量五倍于150万人口的莱特岛的耗电量。剩余电力被销往菲律宾的其他岛屿。
Or at least that is the way it is supposed to work. When Typhoon Haiyan barreled across Leyte Island almost two weeks ago with a tsunami-like storm surge and , killing thousands of people and effortlessly tearing the roofs off homes, it also damaged the crucial geothermal operations here.
或者说，至少计划是这样的。当台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)近两周前带着海啸般的风暴潮横扫莱特岛时，它也破坏了当地关键的地热开采活动。“海燕”导致了数千人丧命，轻而易举地撕碎了各家的房顶。
For many in the Philippines, the damage here exemplifies a broader paradox: A superstorm consistent with some scientists’ warnings about climate change has done tremendous damage to an island that is one of the world’s biggest success stories of renewable energy, and to a country that has contributed almost nothing to the global accumulation of greenhouse gases.
对许多菲律宾人而言，这里的灾情放大了一个更大的悖论：这场与某些科学家对气候变化的预警相一致的超级风暴，给跻身可再生资源最成功的全球范例之列的莱特岛造成了巨大的破坏，而菲律宾这个国家几乎从来没有给地球增加过多少温室气体的排放。
“Many Filipino families have become climate refugees,” said Senator Loren Legarda, the chairwoman of the Philippines Senate’s standing committee on climate change. “We may not pollute the world, yet we are victims of extreme weather and climate change.”
菲律宾参议院气候变化常务委员会主席、女参议员洛伦·莱加尔达(Loren Legarda)说，“许多菲律宾家庭已经成为了气候难民。我们也许并未污染世界，可是却成了极端天气和气候变化的受害者。”
As if to highlight that rueful conclusion, the United Nations climate talks in Warsaw, which unfolded as the world became aware of the typhoon’s savagery, seemed about to conclude with bitter quarrels between rich and developing nations and other disputes.
就像是要突显这种令人懊丧的结论似的，在全球意识到“海燕”的淫威之际，在华沙展开的联合国气候谈判，似乎要以富国与发展中国家的激烈争吵等多种分歧收场。
The Tongonan geothermal field on the outskirts of Ormoc on western Leyte Island is the world’s second-largest producer of geothermal energy, after one in Geysers, Calif. Yet the operation here is remarkably little known even among renewable energy experts because of its unusual history and a lingering penchant for secrecy for national security reasons.
汤加纳地热田位于莱特岛西部的奥尔莫克郊区，是全球第二大地热能产地，仅次于美国加利福尼亚州的盖塞斯地热田。然而，出于非比寻常的历史原因和对国家安全挥之不去的执迷，即使在可再生能源专家当中，对这里地热开采活动的了解，也是少之又少。
The New People’s Army, one of the world’s longest-lasting Maoist insurgencies and an enduring though low-intensity threat on Leyte Island, represents a potential risk to the operations. A small army of soldiers and security guards defends the site and maintains layers of checkpoints to keep visitors out of the mountain valley where five geothermal power plants are.
新人民军(New People’s Army)对开采活动构成了潜在的危险。它是全球历史最悠久的毛泽东主义武装叛军之一，持续威胁着莱特岛，尽管程度较轻。一小队士兵和安保人员在开采现场进行防护，守候着层层的检查站，以防止游客进入山谷中。那里坐落着五座地热发电厂。
The extraordinary force of Typhoon Haiyan’s winds shattered the coconut palm forests that line the steep, narrow valley that for years has churned out so much geothermal energy. Particularly near the ridgelines, mile after mile of trees have changed from green to brown since the winds tore loose virtually every frond. The winds then twisted and bent the usually resilient trunks until they snapped or burst.
多年以来，这个山谷产出了大量的地热资源。可是，台风“海燕”无以伦比的力量摧毁了陡峭狭隘的山谷中成排的椰林。尤其是在山脊线附近，由于大风基本上把每片叶子都给刮松动了，连绵数英里的树木已经从绿色变成了褐色。之后，大风扭转折弯了通常弹力颇佳的树干，直到它们啪地折断，或者被撕碎。
Sheltered in the valley below, however, the homes of the site’s 795 workers seem to have fared surprisingly well, although one of the military barracks has lost much of its green, corrugated steel roof. Agnes de Jesus, the senior vice president for the environment at the Energy Development Corporation, which now owns the power plants, said that no one was killed or seriously injured at the plants during the typhoon, even as the storm surge on the opposite side of the island, 50 miles to the east, killed thousands in the coastal cities of Tacloban, Palo and Tanauan.
然而，藏身在山谷下方的795名地热工人的家，令人称奇地似乎相当完好，尽管有一处营房失去了大部分绿色的钢质屋顶。目前拥有这些发电厂的是能源开发公司(Energy Development Corporation)。负责环境事务的公司高级副总裁阿格尼丝·德赫苏斯(Agnes de Jesus)表示，厂里没有人在台风中遇害或受重伤，虽然岛东50英里之外的另一侧，风暴潮导致沿海城市塔克洛班、帕洛和塔纳万的数千人丧命。
Responding to the Arab oil embargo of 1973, President Ferdinand Marcos began developing the field in the late 1970s with a small demonstration project. The goal from the start was not environmental, but nationalistic and economic: to reduce the Philippines’ dependence on imported energy and save money on fuel bills.
为了应对1973年的阿拉伯石油禁运，在20世纪70年代末，菲律宾总统费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos)开始利用一个小型示范项目开发这片地热田。当时的初衷和环保无关，而是出于民族主义和经济目的，那就是减少菲律宾对进口能源的依赖，节省燃料支出。
After the demonstration project proved successful, five large geothermal plants were built atop boreholes in the same valley here in the mid-1990s, each big enough even today to power the entire island. Each of the five was built by a different company, and then all five transferred them to a state-owned company.
90年代中期，在证明示范项目很成功之后，政府在此地同一个山谷的钻孔上方，建造了五座大型地热发电厂。每座电厂的产能之大，纵使在今天都足以给整个岛供电。五座发电厂各由不同的公司建造，它们后来转变成为一家国有企业。
The state-owned company subsequently privatized them and they became the Energy Development Corporation, a company listed seven years ago on the Philippines Stock Exchange.
这家企业随后把电厂私有化，变成了能源开发公司。七年前，该公司在菲律宾证券交易所(Philippines Stock Exchange)上市。
The valley here differs from many geothermal sites around the world in that the underground rocks are hotter and what comes up through the boreholes is superpressurized water, not steam.
这里的山谷与全球各地的许多地热资源地都不一样。那些地方的地下岩层更热，从钻孔中涌出的是超压水，而不是蒸汽。
The underground water here is at a scalding 480 to 660 degrees Fahrenheit. Four of the power plants essentially rely on two steps: first they spin turbines using the tendency of water at such high temperatures to expand into steam, and then they spin further turbines as the steam cools. Finally, those four power plants were designed to condense the steam into water in steel-reinforced wooden cooling towers for reinjection into the ground.
这里的地下水滚烫，温度在华氏480度到660度之间（约合摄氏250到350度）。其中四座电厂基本上都要经过两个步骤的操作：首先，利用水在极高温度下膨胀成蒸汽的特点来推动涡轮机，而后，在蒸汽冷却时再继续推动涡轮机。最后，根据设计，四座电厂会在钢筋加固的木制冷凝塔里，让蒸汽凝结成水，再回灌到地下。
Typhoon Haiyan destroyed all four cooling towers, located near ridgelines, splintering the wood and casting aside the steel. The Energy Development Corporation is now studying whether to replace the cooling towers with identical construction or build new ones that may be more durable, said Leonita Sabando, the environmental management chief at the site.
台风“海燕”摧毁了全部四座位于山脊线附近的冷却塔，把木头撕成了碎片，钢筋散落在一旁。现场的环境主管莱奥尼塔·萨万多(Leonita Sabando)说，能源开发公司正在研究，是用相同的构造取代旧的冷凝塔，还是建造或许会更耐用的新塔。
The fifth power plant does the expansion from water to steam, the cooling of the steam and the condensation of the steam in a single complex that is also high on the valley wall. Yet it does not protrude so high above the surrounding terrain, and so suffered much less damage. The company is now testing all of the components of that power plant in the hope of bringing it back into full service and repowering Leyte Island by Dec. 24, the national target for restoring electricity after the typhoon, Ms. de Jesus said.
在第五座热电厂里，从水到汽的膨胀、蒸汽的冷却和凝结在同一个厂房内进行。它同样位于谷壁的高处。不过，由于没有比周围的地形高太多，它的受损程度较小。公司目前在测试这座电厂的所有组件，希望能让它重新投入全面运转，在12月24日前恢复莱特岛的供电。德赫苏斯说，这是台风过后恢复供电的全国性目标。