The New Zealand dairy producer Fonterra apologized Monday for distress caused by the contamination of batches of a milk formula ingredient with a potentially toxic strain of bacteria.
新西兰奶制品制造商恒天然公司(Fonterra)周一对因几批配方奶粉被污染而带来的恐慌道歉，这种奶粉配方原料中含有一种潜在的有毒细菌株。
Three batches of whey protein concentrate, totaling 38 metric tons, tested positive for Clostridium botulinum, the company said. The bacterium can cause botulism, a rare and sometimes fatal illness. Fonterra, one of the world’s largest dairy exporters, said eight customers had been affected, in New Zealand, Australia, China, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia.
该公司称，有三批总重量为38公吨的浓缩乳清蛋白粉产品被检验出含有肉毒杆菌。这种细菌可能引发肉毒中毒，这是一种罕见、但有时可能会致命的疾病。恒天然公司是世界上最大的乳制品出口商之一，该公司称，有8名消费者受到了影响，他们分别来自新西兰、澳大利亚、中国、越南、泰国、马来西亚和沙特阿拉伯。
Fonterra said Monday that the contamination had been traced to a pipe that had not been properly cleaned in one of its New Zealand processing plants. Executives stressed that the source of the problem had been fixed.
恒天然公司周一称，已经找到了污染源，细菌来自公司在新西兰的一家加工厂中的一根没有正确清洗的管子。公司高管强调说，问题的根源已得到解决。
The company’s chief executive, Theo Spierings, flew to Beijing for a news conference to address the issue.
该公司首席执行官西奥·施皮林斯(Theo Spierings)专程飞到北京，参加了就这一问题举行的新闻发布会。
“We deeply apologize to the people who have been affected by the issue,” Mr. Spierings said at the conference, which was broadcast by the Reuters news agency.
施皮林斯在发布会上说，“我们向受害者致以深深的歉意。”路透社新闻转播了发布会实况。
China and Vietnam stopped some dairy imports from New Zealand in response to the contamination scare, but the company said they had not issued blanket bans. Fonterra said China had banned products made in Australia using Fonterra’s whey protein, which had been produced in New Zealand, but had not banned any Australian whey protein.
因为害怕污染，中国和越南已停止从新西兰进口某些奶制品，但该公司称，上述两国并未下达全面禁令。恒天然公司称，中国已经禁止了来自澳大利亚的使用恒天然公司乳清蛋白粉制造的产品，因为该乳清蛋白是在新西兰生产的，但中国没有禁止澳大利亚生产的任何乳清蛋白制品。
The Ministry for Primary Industries “has confirmed that China has not closed the market to New Zealand dairy products and that China is being quite specific about the range of Fonterra products which it has temporarily suspended,” Fonterra’s New Zealand milk products managing director, Gary Romano, said Monday in a statement to the New Zealand stock market.
恒天然在新西兰的牛奶制品总监加里·罗马诺(Gary Romano)周一在向新西兰股市发出的一份声明中说，新西兰第一产业部(Ministry for Primary Industries)“已经证实，中国没有向新西兰奶制品关闭市场，中国对已暂停进口的恒天然公司产品范围的规定十分具体”。
“Whole milk powder and skim milk powder have not been suspended,” he added.
他补充说，“全脂奶粉和脱脂奶粉没有被停止进口。”
The RIA Novosti news agency in Russia reported that Russia had banned imports of all Fonterra products, even though it was not on the list of affected countries.
俄罗斯新闻社(RIA Novosti)报道称，俄罗斯已经禁止进口所有恒天然公司的产品，尽管该国并不属于受影响国家范围。
The affected batches of whey protein were produced in May 2012, but the company said the first signs of contamination had not been spotted until March, when the product was tested in Australia. The specific strain was not identified until July 31. Fonterra executives have been questioned in New Zealand and China about why it took so long to identify the problem and alert consumers.
有问题的乳清蛋白粉的生产批次是2012年5月，但公司称，直到今年3月份，在澳大利亚检测产品时，才首次发现污染的迹象。直到7月31日才确定出具体被那种菌株污染。恒天然公司高管在新西兰和中国都遭到质疑，他们为什么花了这么长时间才发现问题，才向消费者发出警告。
Fonterra said more than half of the affected product had gone to three companies: Coca-Cola, the Chinese beverage giant Wahaha and the New Zealand health food company Vitaco. It said processing methods at those companies had eliminated any danger from the bacteria.
恒天然公司表示，出问题的产品中有一半以上流入了3家公司：可口可乐、中国的饮料巨头娃哈哈公司以及新西兰保健品公司Vitaco。该公司称，这三家公司的加工方法已经消除了这种病毒可能带来的任何危险。
But the main concerns focused on infant formula. Many Chinese consumers prefer to buy imported products because of concerns about the safety of domestic brands.
但是人们的主要关注集中在婴儿配方奶粉上。很多中国消费者由于担心国产品牌的安全问题，倾向于购买进口产品。
Nearly 90 percent of China’s $1.9 billion worth of milk powder imports last year originated in New Zealand, Reuters reported.
路透社消息称，去年中国进口的的奶粉价值为19亿美元（约合116亿元人民币），其中近90%来自新西兰。
In 2008, the Chinese dairy company Sanlu and 21 others were found to have added the toxic chemical melamine to bulk up formulas. Six children died and thousands were sickened as a result. Fonterra owned part of Sanlu at the time.
2008年，中国奶制品公司三鹿公司和其他21家公司曾被发现向奶粉中添加有毒化学物质三聚氰胺以人为地提高奶粉的蛋白质含量。结果导致6个孩子死亡，几千人患病。当时，恒天然公司持有三鹿公司的部分股份。
“We totally understand that there’s concern of parents and other consumers around the world,” Mr. Spierings said at the news conference. “Parents have the right to know that infant nutrition and other dairy-related products is 100 percent safe.”
施皮林斯在新闻发布会上说，“我们完全理解全世界父母和其他消费者的担心。父母有权利知道婴儿营养品和其他乳制品100%的安全。”
The New Zealand prime minister, John Key, said the government shared that concern. “We’re talking about the potential health implications for babies, and that’s something the government takes extremely seriously,” he told reporters at a news conference Monday.
新西兰总理约翰·基(John Key)称，政府也同样担心。他在周一的新闻发布会上对记者说，“这是潜在的事关婴儿健康的问题，也是政府极度关注的问题。”
According to a report by Rabobank, Fonterra is the fourth-largest dairy company by revenue, with $15.7 billion in revenue in 2012, behind Nestlé, Danone and Lactalis.
根据Rabobank的一份报告，恒天然公司的收入在世界上乳品公司中排第四，其2012年的年收入为157亿美元，仅次于雀巢公司(Nestlé)、达能公司(Danone)和拉克塔利斯公司(Lactalis)。
In New Zealand, the dairy industry accounts for about 11.5 billion New Zealand dollars, or about $9 billion, in export earnings, according to a research note by the bank ASB. That amounts to about a quarter of the country’s total goods exports.
根据ASB银行的一项研究简报，乳品业为新西兰出口创造的收入约90亿美元，占新西兰出口总额的约四分之一。
The research note also said that the contamination scare would probably cause the country some short-term reputational damage but that it was too early to predict any longer-term effects.
这份研究简报还称，这次污染事件带来的恐慌可能会给新西兰带来短期的名誉损失，但预测任何长期的影响，现在还为时过早。
“It would be naïve to think we’re going to get away without a bloody nose, but let’s hope the damage is limited to that,” New Zealand’s trade minister, Tim Groser, said at a news conference. The economic development minister, Steven Joyce, flew to Auckland on Monday to meet with senior members of Fonterra’s management.
新西兰贸易部长蒂姆·格罗泽(Tim Groser)在新闻发布会上说，“如果认为这件事对我们毫无损伤的话，就太幼稚了，但是让我们希望，损失仅限于此而已。”经济发展部部长史蒂文·乔伊斯(Steven Joyce)周一也飞到奥克兰，会晤恒天然公司管理层的一些高管。
The contamination is the third controversy that the company has faced in the past six years.
这次污染事件是该公司在过去6年中遇到的第3次争议。
First there was the melamine scandal involving Sanlu. Then, early this year, it was disclosed Fonterra had discovered that residues of the agricultural chemical dicyandiamide in some of its whole milk powder, skim milk powder and buttermilk powder in September 2012. Although the company said the risks were minimal, use of the chemical on farmland was suspended.
第一次是与三鹿公司有关的三聚氰胺丑闻。第二次是今年早些时候披露的，恒天然公司曾在2012年9月在一些全脂奶粉、脱脂奶粉和酪乳粉中发现残留有农业化学物质双氰胺。尽管公司称该残留物的风险很小，但已停止在农场使用这种化学物质。
Fonterra is a farmers’ cooperative and is not publicly listed, but it trades nonvoting units as shares on the New Zealand and Australian stock markets. On Monday, the shares opened down about 8 percent on the New Zealand exchange but went on to regain some of their value and closed at 6.86 dollars, a drop of 3.65 percent.
恒天然公司是一家由农场主组成的合作社，并没有公开上市，但其无表决权的股份在新西兰和澳大利亚的股市上进行交易。周一，该公司的股票在新西兰股市开盘时下跌了约8%，但之后又反弹了一些，以6.86美元的价格收盘，当天下跌了3.65%。
The New Zealand dollar also fell by about a cent to 0.7740 U.S. cent in early trading, before regaining some ground.
新西兰元也在早期的交易中对美元贬值，下跌到1新西兰分相当于0.7740美分，后来有所反弹。
In Shanghai, China Modern Dairy shares rose 7.6 percent, while Biostime, which imports the bulk of its dairy products from Europe, surged 8.6 percent, Reuters reported. But Want Want China, which obtains most of its raw milk from Fonterra, fell 3.2 percent.
路透社消息称，在上海，中国现代牧业公司的股票上涨了7.6%，而从欧洲进口大多数奶制品的合生元公司的股票上涨了8.6%。但是从恒天然公司进口大部分源奶的中国旺旺控股有限公司的股票则下降了3.2%。