Just days before his inauguration, President-elect Donald Trump stood beside his tax lawyer at a midtown Manhattan news conference as she announced that he planned to place his vast business holdings in a trust, a move she said would allay fears that he might exploit the Oval Office for personal gain.
就职前夕，在曼哈顿中城的一次新闻发布会上，候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)站在他的税务律师身旁，看着她宣布一个消息：他打算把自己的庞大资产存入一家信托基金，税务律师说此举将让那些认为他会利用椭圆形办公室谋取个人利益的人打消顾虑。
However, questions were left unanswered — including who would ultimately benefit from the trust — raising concerns about just how meaningful the move was.
不过，一些问题仍悬而未决——包括该信托基金的最终受益人是谁——从而引发了关于这一举措有多大意义的担忧。
Records have emerged that show just how closely tied Trump remains to the empire he built.
新浮出水面的记录表明，特朗普仍与他亲手建立的商业帝国有着密切的关联。
While the president says he has walked away from the day-to-day operations of his business, two people close to him are the named trustees and have broad legal authority over his assets: his eldest son, Donald Jr., and Allen H. Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s chief financial officer. Donald Trump, who will receive reports on any profit, or loss, on his company as a whole, can revoke their authority at any time.
总统说自己已经不再插手企业的日常运营，但两个和他关系密切的人，也就是他的长子小唐纳德(Donald Jr.)和特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的首席财务官阿伦·H·魏塞尔贝格(Allen H. Weisselberg)，被指定为受托人，对他的资产有着广泛的法定权限。唐纳德·特朗普将收到关于公司整体盈利或亏损情况的报告，可以在任何时候解除他们的权限。
What’s more, the purpose of the Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust is to hold assets for the “exclusive benefit” of the president. This trust remains under Trump’s Social Security number, at least as far as federal taxes are concerned.
此外，唐纳德·J·特朗普可撤销信托基金(Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust)的宗旨是持有资产以保障总统的“专属利益”。该信托基金仍挂在特朗普的社会安全号码之下，至少从联邦税务角度看是这样。
Since his election, there have been widespread calls for Trump to sell his assets and put the proceeds in a blind trust. He has resisted those calls, stressing that the president has no legal obligation to do so.
自从特朗普当选总统以来，外界普遍呼吁他出售资产，并把收益交由保密信托基金管理。他一直颇为抗拒此类呼声，坚称总统没有这样做的法律义务。
While the trust structure, outlined in documents made public through a Freedom of Information Act request by ProPublica, may give the president the appearance of distance from his business, it drew sharp criticism from experts in government ethics.
由于ProPublica根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)提出了申请，概述相关信托架构的文件已被公之于众。该架构或许让总统从表面上看远离了他的企业，但却招致了政府伦理问题专家的尖锐批评。
“I don’t see how this in the slightest bit avoids a conflict of interest,” said Frederick J. Tansill, a trust and estates lawyer from Virginia who examined the documents at the request of The New York Times. “First it is revocable at any time, and it is his son and his chief financial officer who are running it.”
“我认为这在避免利益冲突方面不会起到任何作用，”来自弗吉尼亚州的信托及遗产律师弗雷德里克·J·坦西尔(Frederick J. Tansill)应《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的请求仔细查看相关文件后表示。“首先它是随时可撤销的，而且运营者是他的儿子和他的首席财务官。”
It is not uncommon for people to place assets in a trust with themselves as beneficiaries for estate-planning purposes. But Trump’s situation is unprecedented, because it involves a wealthy president acting to avoid an appearance of conflict of interest.
人们出于遗产规划的目的，将其资产存入以自己为受益人的信托基金，并不是什么不同寻常的做法。但特朗普的情况堪称史无前例，因为牵涉其中的是一名假装采取行动以免让人觉得自己会卷入利益冲突的富有总统。
The Trump Organization declined to comment for this article.
特朗普集团拒绝就本文置评。
The most immediate test of Trump’s legal moves to separate himself from his company, the Trump Organization, pertains to the ownership of the new Trump International Hotel in the Old Post Office Building in Washington.
为了和自己的特朗普集团保持距离，特朗普采取了一些法律行动，至于其效果，最直接的检验是华盛顿老邮局大楼(Old Post Office Building)内的新特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)的所有权问题。
The trust documents, which were prepared last month, argue that “all beneficial ownership in the licensee previously held by Donald J. Trump, personally, now is held derivatively and beneficially by The Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust,” which is legal language intended to suggest that Trump no longer has a personal tie to the hotel lease.
于上月准备好的信托基金文件称，“特朗普个人以前在被许可方那里持有的受益所有权，现在均由唐纳德·J·特朗普可撤销信托基金附带持有并享有实益，”这些法律用语的意思是，特朗普个人现在和酒店租约没有任何关系。
A provision in the 2013 lease for the building, held by Trump and his three oldest children, appears to prohibit a federally elected official, including the president, from benefiting from it.
特朗普及其年纪较长的三名子女握有签订于2013年的那份大楼租约。其中一项条款似乎禁止包括总统在内的联邦民选官员从租约中获益。
But lawyers who specialize in federal contracts say the trust arrangement simply creates an additional legal step between Trump and the hotel — meaning he will still profit from it.
但专门研究联邦合同的律师称，信托安排只不过是旨在让特朗普和该酒店撇清关系的一个额外的法律举措——意味着他仍会从中获利。
Robert H. Sitkoff, a professor at Harvard Law School, said the new details in the trust documents were unlikely to resolve the apparent legal problems with the Old Post Office site.
哈佛大学法学院(Harvard Law School)教授罗伯特·H·西特科夫(Robert H. Sitkoff)说，信托文件中的新细节不太可能解决与老邮局大楼有关的显而易见的法律问题。
“Formally he is no longer the owner, but functionally he still is,” he said.
“名义上他不再是所有者，但实际上他依然是，”他说。
Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, D-Md., the ranking member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform who has called for a congressional investigation into the lease, said he remained unsatisfied that Trump had addressed his conflicts. “This is smoke and mirrors,” he said of the new documents.
曾呼吁国会就租约展开调查的众议院监管与政府改革委员会(House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform)资深成员、马里兰州民主党众议员伊莱贾·E·卡明斯(Elijah E. Cummings)说，他仍然不满意特朗普对利益冲突问题的处理。“这是障眼法，”他这样评价新文件。
While Trump may have to take additional legal steps to avoid violating the terms of the Old Post Office lease, he is exempt from laws that prohibit federal employees from participating in government matters that will directly affect their own financial interests.
特朗普或许必须采取某些额外的法律举措，以免违反老邮局大楼租约的条款，然而，禁止联邦官员参与将直接影响其经济利益的政府事务的法律规定，对他并没有约束。
The Trump Organization, which is privately held, has also released a list of 488 Trump companies that Trump has held positions at, saying he resigned from all of them. Public records show that he has severed ties from some of these entities.
由私人控股的特朗普集团也公布了一份名单，列出了特朗普曾任职的448家特朗普名下公司的名字，说他已经辞去了所有这些职务。公共记录显示，他和其中某些实体有着密切的关联。
The Trump Organization has pledged not to pursue new business deals overseas, though it plans to expand within the United States. Last month the company named Bobby Burchfield, a longtime Republican Party lawyer and corporate litigator, as an “independent ethics adviser.”
特朗普集团承诺不会寻求在海外开展新业务，不过它打算在美国国内开疆拓土。上月，该公司任命长期担任共和党的律师和公司诉讼律师的博比·伯奇菲尔德(Bobby Burchfield)为“独立伦理顾问”。
The Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust has existed since at least 2014, records show. By 2016 it was the only shareholder in DJT Holdings, one of Trump’s main limited liability companies, according to documents filed by Trump as part of his bid for president and released by the Federal Election Commission. That company holds some of Trump’s largest assets, including his Old Post Office lease, golf courses and residential properties including a house in Beverly Hills, California.
记录显示，唐纳德·J·特朗普可撤销信托基金至少在2014年便存在了。根据特朗普在竞选时提交并由联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)公布的文件，到2016年，该基金是特朗普名下主要有限责任公司之一DJT控股(DJT Holdings)的唯一股东。DJT控股持有特朗普的某些最大的资产，譬如老邮局大楼租约、高尔夫球场以及包括加州贝弗利山庄的一所房子在内的住宅物业。
New York City property records show that in recent weeks Trump has transferred several residential condominiums he owns into the trust.
纽约市的房产记录显示，特朗普在最近几个星期里把他名下的若干共管住宅移交给了该基金。