Which of the following interactive features drove record traffic to its respective news sites in recent months: a) How Much Time Have You Wasted on Facebook? for Time; b) The interactive dialect quiz for The New York Times; c) The Adele Dazeem Generator: Travoltify Your Name, which appeared on Slate; or d) all of the above?
以下哪个新闻网站上的互动栏目，为相应的新闻网站带来了创纪录的流量：a)《时代》(Time)周刊的小调查：你在Facebook上浪费了多少时间；b)《纽约时报》的方言测试游戏；c)Slate网站上的阿黛尔·达齐姆(Adele Dazeem)姓名生成器：约翰·特拉沃塔(John Travolta)会把你的名字叫成什么；还是d)以上全部？
Congratulations if you answered d) all of the above.
如果你选择了“d)以上全部”，恭喜你，你答对了！
News organizations are changing their formats in the digital age to connect with more readers, with quizzes and games having become popular offerings that audiences find hard to resist.
在数字时代，新闻机构正不断改变内容编排从而吸引更多读者，小测验和游戏已成为广受媒体欢迎的选择，让读者难以抑制参与的冲动。
The Facebook quiz helped lead Time to its highest Internet traffic day ever, 3.8 million unique visitors in January. The dialect quiz, which appeared in December, was the most viewed and most emailed article last year for The New York Times. And the Adele Dazeem name generator, which Slate put up Monday after John Travolta mangled the introduction of the singer Idina Menzel at the Oscars ceremony, calling her Adele Dazeem, was the most viewed article ever in Slate’s 18-year history.
今年1月，有关Facebook的小调查让《时代》周刊的网站实现了单日380万独立访问人数的最高纪录。去年12月推出的方言测验是《纽约时报》去年浏览量最多、邮件分享最多的内容。Slate网站上周一推出的“阿黛尔·达齐姆姓名生成器”，是该网站上线18年以来浏览次数最多的内容。在这之前，在奥斯卡的颁奖典礼上，约翰·特拉沃塔在介绍歌手伊迪娜·门泽尔(Idina Menzel)时把她的名字说成了阿黛尔·达齐姆(Adele Dazeem)。
The feature, which allows readers to enter their name and find out how John Travolta might mispronounce it (this reporter came out as Laurence Keezy), had been viewed by 9.5 million unique users by Wednesday afternoon and was adding roughly 100,000 people an hour.
读者们可以把自己的名字输进这个姓名生成器，然后就会看到约翰·特拉沃塔会把它叫成什么（本文作者的名字变成了劳伦斯·基茨[Laurence Keezy]），截至周三下午，已经有950万名独立用户使用了这个功能，人数还在以每小时10万人的速度增加。
At first Slate’s editor, David Plotz, was not sure this development was an entirely good thing: “Definition of ambivalent: The John Travolta name generator is the most popular story in Slate history,” he posted on Twitter. Later in a phone interview, he said “bemused” was a better description of his feelings.
起初，Slate的编辑戴维·普洛茨(David Plotz)并不确定这完全是一件好事。他在Twitter上说，“什么叫矛盾情绪：约翰·特拉沃塔姓名生成器是Slate迄今为止最受欢迎的内容。”他后来在电话采访中说，“困惑”这个词也许更能形容他的感受。
“Readers will go high or low with us,” he said. “It was off the news and it was fun and shareable. All publications are aspiring to that direct connection to their audience.”
他说，“读者们的品味高低取决于我们的引导。这个游戏跟新闻无关，它很有趣，可以分享。所有的出版物都希望与读者建立这种直接的联系。”
And whether they like it or not, in these tough times news organizations are prepared to take advantage of a strategy that allows them to charge more for advertising — rates are based on monthly visitors to the site — and to potentially attract new readers who might become loyal followers.
无论新闻机构是否喜欢，在这段艰难时期，它们都会毫不犹豫地利用能够让自己收取更多广告费、并有可能吸引新读者的新策略——广告费是根据每月访问量确定的。而新读者也有可能成为自己忠实的受众。
“It is the gamification of content,” said Joshua Benton, director of the Nieman Journalism Lab at Harvard. “Take the same dynamics that lead games and social sharing to be addictive and use them in a way to connect to content.”
“这是内容的游戏化，”哈佛大学尼曼新闻实验室(Nieman Journalism Lab)负责人乔舒亚·本顿(Joshua Benton)说。“游戏和社交网络的分享行为基于一些原因会让人欲罢不能。现在把这些因素以某种方式融合到了内容当中。”
Games have been part of the newspaper business for a long time. The New York Times has featured its crossword puzzle since 1942, while other newspapers have carried comics, word puzzles and acrostics. But the digital age has allowed for interactivity, which makes for an especially alluring form of game-playing. If users can put their own name and information into a template and come out with an amusing answer, it often prompts them to share it with others through social media, contributing to the holy grail of virality.
游戏成为报纸业务的一部分由来已久，《纽约时报》自1942年就推出了填字游戏，其他报纸则刊登了漫画、字谜和离合诗。但数字时代使互动成为可能，而互动又带来了非常吸引人的游戏体验。如果用户将自己的名字和信息输入模板，并得到一个好玩的结果，这通常会促使用户通过社交媒体与他人分享，有助于这个游戏的广泛传播。
While quizzes are also not new — Slate, for instance, previously offered the Carlos Danger name generator, a reference to the supposed pseudonym used by Anthony Weiner — the trend toward interactivity is only accelerating. Time magazine hired its first digital interactive graphics editor last August. BuzzFeed, the up-and-coming digital news site, installed a quiz template in its system in 2012. The Wire, part of Atlantic Media, has introduced a custom-made bracket competition to coincide with March Madness, the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, where users vote to narrow the field in categories like the best college, the best city, the best seat in a movie theater.
尽管测验也不算新内容——例如，Slate之前就推出过“危险的卡洛斯”(Carlos Danger)姓名生成器，这里指的是安东尼·韦纳(Anthony Weiner)使用的化名，但互动的趋势只会不断加速。《时代》周刊去年8月聘请了首个数字互动图形编辑。势头正健的数字新闻网站BuzzFeed于2012年在其系统中安装了一个测验模板。大西洋传媒公司(Atlantic Media)旗下的网站The Wire推出了专门定制的赛程评比活动，迎接“疯狂三月”(March Madness)——美国大学体育总会(NCAA)男子篮球联赛。用户通过投票在最佳大学、最佳城市、电影院最佳座位等项目中，让选手一决高下。
The problem for media organizations is where, if anywhere, to draw the line between amusing content and the mission of reporting the news. Many digital publications have relied on addictively shared content of dubious news value — like quizzes to determine which character of the Downton Abbey television series the user most resembles.
媒体机构的问题在于，如果有趣的内容与新闻报道的使命之间要有一个界限，那么界限该如何确定。很多数字出版物过于依靠一些分享的内容，而这些内容的新闻价值却十分刻意。比如，判定用户最像电视剧《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)中的哪个人物的测验。
Still, there are plenty of sophisticated ways to use interactive games, says Ian Bogost, the co-author of “Newsgames: Journalism At Play.”
但《新闻游戏：游戏中的新闻学》(Newsgames: Journalism At Play)的合著者伊恩·博格斯特(Ian Bogost)表示，有很多利用互动游戏的复杂方法。
“The really interesting thing about games is they can depict how things work and systemic issues that underlay stories, that we can look at in another way,” he said.
他说，“游戏真正有趣的地方在于，它们能够体现事物是如何运作的，以及贯穿故事之中、我们能以另一种方式看待的系统性问题。”
Stephen Engelberg, editor in chief of ProPublica, a nonprofit investigative news site, said he steered his publication toward interactive features with a public service bent, and had still found them to be powerful drivers of traffic. ProPublica’s Dollars for Docs app allows users to find out if their doctor has taken money from pharmaceutical companies. It has generated seven million views since it was first posted in 2010.
非营利性调查报道网站ProPublica的主编斯蒂芬·恩格尔贝格(Stephen Engelberg)表示，他引领该网站朝着具有互动特性的公共服务网站发展，发现这些互动是增加流量的有力因素。用户可以通过ProPublica的“落入医生口袋的美元”(Dollars for Docs)应用，查看他们的医生是否向制药公司收过钱。自2010年首次推出以来，这款应用的浏览量达到了700万次。