LONDON — Once they were friends and colleagues who reveled in the heady world of British news, politics and intrigue. Together they rose from the scrappy newsrooms of London’s tabloids to the heights of establishment power, she as head of Rupert Murdoch’s British newspaper empire, he as Prime Minister David Cameron’s chief spokesman. For six years they were lovers, carrying on their affair even as each married someone else.
伦敦——他们曾是朋友和同事，共同陶醉在由英国新闻、政治和阴谋构建的令人兴奋的世界里。二人一齐从伦敦小报乱哄哄的编辑室爬到权力的顶层。她是鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)在英国的报业帝国的老大，而他成为了首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)的首席发言人。他们是相恋六年的情人，在各自与别人结婚的同时，依然维系着婚外情。
Now Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson are together again, this time in the dock at the Old Bailey, London’s main criminal court, facing charges of illegally intercepting voice messages and other crimes in connection with their work for Mr. Murdoch’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid.
现在，丽贝卡·布鲁克斯(Rebekah Brooks)和安迪·库尔森(Andy Coulson)又在一起了，却是在伦敦主要的刑事法院所在地、老贝利街的被告席上。他们面临非法窃听语音信息等刑事指控，均与他们为默多克旗下业已停业的小报《世界新闻报》(News of the World)所做的工作有关。
Since their arrests, their lives have sharply diverged.
被捕之后，他们的生活发生了截然不同的变化。
Though they sit side by side in court, it is not by choice; their seats are assigned. Nothing about their body language suggests their history of intimacy. They bid each other good morning and good evening, but there is little more than that. When the prosecution read out a steamy letter from Ms. Brooks to Mr. Coulson as evidence of their affair, she looked uneasily down at her lap; he stared straight ahead.
尽管二人并排坐在法庭上，这种安排却并非他们有意为之，而是被法院指定的。两人的身体语言丝毫没有显露出过往亲密关系的痕迹。他们互道早安和晚安，不过仅此而已。当检方朗读布鲁克斯写给库尔森的一封充满情色意味的信时，她不自在地低头看着自己的大腿；他则直视前方。
Ms. Brooks, 45, a Murdoch darling who worked as chief executive of Mr. Murdoch’s News International before resigning when the phone hacking scandal engulfed her in the summer of 2011, never lost the support of the man who was her boss, friend, mentor and protector.
45岁的布鲁克斯是默多克面前的红人。2011年夏天，她因陷入电话窃听丑闻辞职。在这之前，她是默多克旗下的新闻国际公司(News International)的首席执行官。她从未失去默多克的支持，后者是她的老板、朋友、导师和保护者。
She walked away with a $17.6 million severance package that incorporated “compensation for loss of office” and various “ongoing benefits.” These have not been specified but are believed to include the car and driver that bring her to court each day. She has houses in London and in Oxfordshire.
离开时，她获得了1760万美元（约合1.07亿元人民币）的遣散费，其中包括“失业补偿”和各种“持续的福利”。细节没有被披露，不过据信，其中包括了每天接送她去法院的汽车和司机。她目前在伦敦和牛津郡都有房产。
But from appearances at least, she is a changed woman. Her clingy, look-at-me clothes have been replaced by functional skirts and blouses; she wears little makeup. She sees a small circle of close friends, no longer goes to the glamorous parties she used to love, and is devoting her time to the legal case and to the baby she had via a surrogate.
然而，至少从表面上看，她与之前判若两人。她那引人注目的紧身装扮，已经被实用的裙子和上衣所替代；基本没化妆。她只和一小帮密友见面，也不再参加曾经热衷的奢华派对，而是把时间花在自己的法律案件和通过代孕生下的宝宝上。
“She’s doing as well as can be expected, which is not great,” a friend said.
一名朋友说，“她表现得和预期一样，也就是不怎么样。”
Still, she is rich. And she is better shape than Mr. Coulson, 45, who resigned twice over different phases of the phone hacking scandal: once as editor of the News of the World in 2007 and again as director of communications for Mr. Cameron in 2011. Cut loose by the Murdochs, shunned by his old government friends, short of cash and out of work for nearly three years, he has had to sell his expensive London house and move out of town with his wife and three children.
不过，她依然富有，而且状况比45岁的库尔森要好。后者在电话窃听丑闻的不同阶段辞了两回职，一次是在2007年辞去《世界新闻报》的主编职务，另一次则是在2011年辞去卡梅伦通讯联络主管的职务。默多克阵营抛弃了他、政府中的老友对他避之不及。在近三年的时间里，他既没工作，还缺钱花，不得不变卖在伦敦的豪宅，带着妻子及三个孩子搬出去。
Mr. Coulson appears unchanged physically, and still wears the same nondescript business suits he always did, He commutes to the trial from his new home in Kent or stays overnight in modest hotels or friends’ houses. The Murdochs washed their hands of him long ago, rightly concluding that his employment at Downing Street made the hacking scandal far more combustible by implicating the government and the Conservative Party.
库尔森的外型似乎没有变化，依然身着他过去习惯穿着的毫无个性的西服。他在肯特郡的新家和法院之间往返，要不就是在平价酒店或朋友家过夜。默多克阵营很早以前就不再搭理他了。他们很自然地断定，他供职于唐宁街的事实，使政府和保守党(Conservative Party)卷入窃听丑闻，让事情变得更加不可收拾。
“My feeling is that he has paid a much higher price than anyone else,” said Roy Greenslade, a professor of journalism at City University here. “He didn’t get a massive payoff, he didn’t get Murdoch standing behind him, and he had to fall on his sword twice.”
伦敦城市大学(City University London)的新闻学教授罗伊·格林斯莱德(Roy Greenslade)说，“我感觉，他比其他任何人付出的代价都要高得多。他没得到大笔的遣散费，没得到默多克的支持，还必须接受两次打击。”
A journalist from a competing news organization said: “He has lost everything, basically.”
来自竞争新闻机构的一名记者说，“他基本上失去了一切。”
While Ms. Brooks’s legal expenses have been paid by her old employer, Mr. Coulson — whose bills have passed the $400,000 mark and will inevitably climb much higher — has had a different experience. Despite negotiating an exit package in which the company was obliged to pay his legal bills should he be charged in connection with his work as editor, Mr. Coulson has had to take the company to court to obtain the payments.
布鲁克斯的法律费用一直由她的老雇主支付，库尔森的遭遇却截然不同。他的账单已经超过了40万美元，而且还将不可避免地急剧攀升。在与公司协商的离职补偿方案中，假如他因为和主编工作相关的原因受到指控，那么公司有义务支付法律费用。尽管如此，为了获得相关款项，库尔森不得不向法院起诉了公司。
Even though it lost the case, the company is still paying only grudgingly, Mr. Coulson’s friends say.
库尔森的朋友们说，虽然公司败诉了，也依然只会勉强给钱。
“To this day, they’re making it supremely difficult for him to get his bills paid,” said an acquaintance of Mr. Coulson’s who, like others interviewed for this article, spoke anonymously to comment on a pending case. “They’re going through his bills with a fine-tooth comb, and the big problem is that they’re delaying payments. He has a big team, and it makes life very difficult.”
他的一名熟人说，“时至今日，库尔森付账的事情被他们弄得超级困难。”与本文采访的其他人士一样，此人要求匿名评论悬而未决的案子。“他们仔细核查他的账单，一个大问题是，他们还拖延付款。他要维持一个大团队，而这件事让他的生活变得非常艰难。”
Both Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks are likely to have to pay back at least some of the money to the company if they are found guilty. (Both have pleaded not guilty to the hacking charges.)
如果被判有罪，库尔森和布鲁克斯都很有可能必须向公司偿还至少部分费用。（他们都对多项窃听指控提出了无罪抗辩。）
The trial is expected to run for several more months. It is now in its second month, and the prosecution is still presenting its arguments. In addition to Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks, there are six other defendants, among them Charlie Brooks, Ms. Brooks’s husband, who has been accused of conspiring with her to destroy evidence.
预计审判将持续几个月。目前，庭审已进入第二个月，依然还在检方陈述的阶段。除了库尔森和布鲁克斯，还有其他六名被告，其中包括布鲁克斯的丈夫查利·布鲁克斯(Charlie Brooks)。他被控与妻子合谋销毁证据。
More trials are expected to follow. What began as in investigation into the illegal interception of voice mail messages has grown into a sprawling octopus of a case,  involving at least 1,000 likely victims from politics, sports, show business and the media; and millions of emails and other documents.
预计随后还要举行多宗审判。以非法窃听语音留言肇始的调查，已经变成一桩触及各界的庞大案件，至少牵涉1000名政界、体育界、演艺圈和媒体圈的受害者，包含了数百万份电子邮件等文件。
On the surface, at least, Mr. Coulson looks to be in a worse position than Ms. Brooks. While prosecutors have already introduced email and voice mail messages that they say directly link Mr. Coulson to phone hacking, they have not yet presented similar evidence in the case of Ms. Brooks.
至少从表面看，库尔森似乎比布鲁克斯的处境更糟糕。检方已经呈交了一些电子邮件和语音留言信息。据他们说，这些证据表明，库尔森和电话窃听存在直接关联。在针对布鲁克斯的指控中，他们尚未呈交类似的证据。
She and her husband seem more vulnerable to the charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The prosecution contends that they illegally removed files from the office and tried to discard a laptop that potentially contained evidence in the case.
布鲁克斯和丈夫合谋妨害司法公正的罪名似乎更易成立。检方认为，他们从办公室非法转移了文件，还试图丢弃一部可能内含本案证据的笔记本电脑。