If you’re a working journalist and you believe that Donald Trump is a demagogue playing to the nation’s worst racist and nationalistic tendencies, that he cozies up to anti-American dictators and that he would be dangerous with control of the United States nuclear codes, how the heck are you supposed to cover him?
如果你是一名从业中的记者，如果你认为唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)是煽动家，迎合美国最恶劣的种族主义和民族主义倾向，认为他拼命讨好反美独裁者，认为他倘若控制美国的核武器按钮将会非常危险，那你究竟该如何报道他？
Because if you believe all of those things, you have to throw out the textbook American journalism has been using for the better part of the past half-century, if not longer, and approach it in a way you’ve never approached anything in your career. If you view a Trump presidency as something that’s potentially dangerous, then your reporting is going to reflect that. You would move closer than you’ve ever been to being oppositional. That’s uncomfortable and uncharted territory for every mainstream, nonopinion journalist I’ve ever known, and by normal standards, untenable.
因为如果你持以上观点，那么你必须抛弃美国新闻业在过去半个世纪（甚至更久）的大多数时间所采用的教科书，用你在记者生涯中从未用过的方式来报道他。如果你认为特朗普当选总统具有潜在危险，那么你的报道会反映这一点。你会比以往任何时候都更倾向于反对。对我所认识的所有主流媒体的非评论性记者来说，这是一个令人不安的未知领域，而且从正常标准看是说不过去的。
But the question that everyone is grappling with is: Do normal standards apply? And if they don’t, what should take their place?
不过，大家都在纠结的问题是：正常标准在这种情况下适用吗？如果不适用，那应该用什么标准？
Covering Trump as an abnormal and potentially dangerous candidate is more than just a shock to the journalistic system. It threatens to throw the advantage to his news-conference-averse opponent, Hillary Clinton, who should draw plenty more tough-minded coverage herself. She proved that again last week with her assertion on Fox News Sunday that James Comey, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, had declared her to be truthful in her answers about her decision to use a private email server for official State Department business — a grossly misleading interpretation of an FBI report that pointed up various falsehoods in her public explanations.
把特朗普报道成一位不正常的、具有潜在危险的候选人不仅会对新闻系统造成震荡，而且可能给他不喜欢新闻发布会的对手希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)带来优势，媒体本应对后者进行更多态度强硬的报道。上周她再次证明了这一点：她在《福克斯周日新闻》(Fox News Sunday)上坚称，联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)已经宣布她诚实回答了关于用私人邮件处理国务院(State Department)事务的问题——这是她对联邦调查局一份报告的极具误导性的阐释，那份报告指出了她的公众解释中的多个不实之处。
And, most broadly, it upsets balance, that idealistic form of journalism with a capital “J” we’ve been trained to always strive for.
从最广泛的意义上讲，它会破坏平衡，也就是我们被培训永远追求的新闻业的理想状态。
But let’s face it: Balance has been on vacation since Trump stepped onto his golden Trump Tower escalator last year to announce his candidacy. For the primaries and caucuses, the imbalance played to his advantage, captured by the killer statistic of the season: His nearly $2 billion in free media was more than six times as much as that of his closest Republican rival.
不过，面对现实吧：自从去年特朗普走上金碧辉煌的特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的扶梯宣布参加总统选举起，平衡就不复存在。在初选和预选会中，这种不平衡对他有利，这一点从选举季惊人的数据能看出来：他获得了价值近20亿美元的免费媒体曝光，是最接近他的共和党对手的六倍多。
Now that he is the Republican nominee for president, the imbalance is cutting against him. Journalists and commentators are analyzing his policy pronouncements and temperament with an eye toward what it would all look like in the Oval Office — something so many of them viewed as an impossibility for so long.
但是在他成为共和党的总统候选人之后，这种不平衡开始不利于他。记者和评论员在分析他的政策声明和性情时会考虑这些在总统办公室里看起来会是怎样的——很多人一直认为他入主白宫是不可能的。
You can see it from the minute the television news day starts, on the set of “Morning Joe” on MSNBC. A few months ago media writers were describing a too-cozy relationship between Trump and the show’s hosts, Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski.
从每天电视新闻开始的那一分钟起，也就是在微软全国广播公司(MSNBC)的《早安，乔》(Morning Joe)上，你就能看出这一点。几个月前，媒体作家们认为特朗普与该节目的主持人乔·斯卡伯勒(Joe Scarborough)和米卡·布热津斯基(Mika Brzezinski)的关系太过亲密。
Yet there was Scarborough on Wednesday asking the former Central Intelligence Agency director Michael V. Hayden whether there were safeguards in place to ensure that if Trump “gets angry, he can’t launch a nuclear weapon,” given the perception that he might not be “the most stable guy.”
然而在周三，斯卡伯勒询问前中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)局长迈克尔·V·海登(Michael V. Hayden)是否布置了安全措施，防止特朗普“生气时发射核武器”，因为他可能不是“最稳定的人”。
Then Scarborough shared an alarming conversation he said he had with a “foreign policy expert” who had given Trump a national security briefing. “Three times he asked about the use of nuclear weapons,” Scarborough said, describing one of the questions as “If we have them, why can’t we use them?”
然后，斯卡伯勒分享了他与一名“外交政策专家”进行的一次令人担忧的谈话，后者曾为特朗普提供国家安全简报。“他三次提到使用核武器的问题”，斯卡伯勒说，其中一个问题是：“我们有核武器，为什么不能用呢？”
Speaking with me later, Scarborough, a Republican, said he had not contemplated sharing the anecdote with the audience until just before he did.
共和党人斯卡伯勒后来对我说，在他向观众分享这一轶事之前，他从没想过自己会这样做。
“When that discussion came up, I really didn’t have a choice,” Scarborough said. “That was something I thought Americans needed to know.”
“讨论到那一点时，我真的别无选择，”斯卡伯勒说，“我觉得美国人需要知道这件事。”
Trump has denied Scarborough’s account. (He told The New York Times in March he would use nuclear weapons as “an absolutely last step.” But when the MSNBC host Chris Matthews challenged him for raising the possibility he would use them, Trump asked, “Then why are we making them?”)
特朗普否认了斯卡伯勒的说法（今年3月，他在接受《纽约时报》采访时称，他“万不得已”才会使用核武器。不过，当微软全国广播公司的主持人克里斯·马修斯[Chris Matthews]质疑他提高了使用核武器的可能性时，特朗普问道：“不然我们造它们干嘛？”）
Scarborough, a frequent critic of liberal media bias, said he was concerned that Trump was becoming increasingly erratic, and asked rhetorically, “How balanced do you have to be when one side is just irrational?”
斯卡伯勒经常批评自由主义的媒体偏见。他说他担心特朗普变得越来越不稳定。他反问道：“当一方不理性时，你怎么保持平衡？”
Scarborough is on the opinion side of the news business. It’s much dodgier for conventional news reporters to treat this year’s political debate as one between “normal” and “abnormal,” as the Vox editor in chief Ezra Klein put it recently.
斯卡伯勒属于新闻业的评论人员。对传统新闻记者来说，把今年的政治辩论看作一场在“正常”和“不正常”（前不久新闻网站Vox的主编埃兹拉·克莱恩[Ezra Klein]如是说）的对手之间进行的辩论就更为困难。
In a sense, that’s just what reporters are doing. And it’s unavoidable. Because Trump is conducting his campaign in ways we’ve not normally seen.
从某种意义上讲，记者们正是这样做的。这是不可避免的。因为特朗普竞选的方式与我们通常所见到的不同。
No living journalist has ever seen a major party nominee put financial conditions on the U.S. defense of NATO allies, openly fight with the family of a fallen American soldier, or entice Russia to meddle in a United States presidential election by hacking his opponent (a joke, Trump later said, that the news media failed to get). And while coded appeals to racism or nationalism aren’t new — two words: Southern strategy — overt calls to temporarily bar Muslims from entry to the United States or questioning a federal judge’s impartiality based on his Mexican heritage are new.
从业中的记者从未见过哪位主要政党的候选人对美国保护北约盟国提出经济条件，与阵亡美军士兵的家人公开争执，或怂恿俄罗斯通过入侵他的对手的电脑介入美国总统大选（特朗普后来说新闻媒体没有听出来他是在开玩笑）。虽然隐晦地利用种族主义或国家主义并不新鲜——简单说就是“南方政策”——但是暂时禁止穆斯林进入美国或质疑有墨西哥血统的联邦法官难以公正这样的公然表态还是很新鲜。
“If you have a nominee who expresses warmth toward one of our most mischievous and menacing adversaries, a nominee who shatters all the norms about how our leaders treat families whose sons died for our country, a nominee proposing to rethink the alliances that have guided our foreign policy for 60 years, that demands coverage — copious coverage and aggressive coverage,” said Carolyn Ryan, The New York Times’ senior editor for politics. “It doesn’t mean that we won’t vigorously pursue reporting lines on Hillary Clinton — we are and we will.”
“如果一名候选人对我们最恶劣、最具威胁性的对手表达温暖的感情，颠覆领导人对待为国捐躯的士兵的家人的所有准则，提议重新考虑60年来主导我们外交政策的联盟，那我们必须去报道他——大量、猛烈地报道，”时报的高级政治编辑卡罗琳·瑞安(Carolyn Ryan)说，“那并不意味着，我们不会积极地去报道希拉里·克林顿——我们正在而且会继续报道下去。”
The media reaction to it all has been striking, what the Columbia Journalism Review called “a Murrow moment.” It’s not unusual to see news stories describe him as “erratic” without attribution to an opponent. The “fact-checks” of his falsehoods continue to pile up in staggering numbers, far outpacing those of Clinton). And, on Sunday, the CNN “Reliable Sources” host Brian Stelter called upon journalists and opinion makers to challenge Trump’s “dangerous” claims that the electoral system is rigged against him. Failure to do so would be unpatriotic, Stelter said.
媒体对此的反应非常强烈——《哥伦比亚新闻评论》(Columbia Journalism Review)称现在是又一个“默罗(Murrow)时刻”。经常有新闻报道说他“不稳定”，这个词还没人用到他的任何对手身上。关于他的谎言的“事实核查”仍以惊人的数字累积，远远超过克林顿。周日，CNN《可靠消息来源》(Reliable Sources)的主持人布赖恩·斯泰尔特(Brian Stelter)呼吁记者和意见领袖们去质疑特朗普的“危险”言论——后者称，选举系统遭到操纵，用以抵制他。斯泰尔特说，不这么做就是不爱国。
While there are several examples of conservative media criticism of Trump this year, the candidate and his supporters are reprising longstanding accusations of liberal bias. “The media is trying to take Donald Trump out,” Rush Limbaugh declared last week.
虽然今年保守主义媒体对特朗普也有一些批评，但这位候选人和他的支持者们正在重拾长期以来对自由主义偏见的指责。“媒体正努力把唐纳德·特朗普搞出局，”拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)上周声称。
A lot of core Trump supporters certainly view it that way. That will only serve to worsen their already dim view of the news media, which initially failed to recognize the power of their grievances, and therefore failed to recognize the seriousness of Trump’s candidacy.
特朗普的很多核心支持者肯定也是这样认为的。那将只会强化他们对新闻媒体已有的负面看法。媒体最初没有意识到他们的怨愤的力量，因此也没有意识到特朗普成为候选人的严重性。
This, however, is what being taken seriously looks like. As Ryan put it to me, Trump’s candidacy is “extraordinary and precedent shattering” and “to pretend otherwise is to be disingenuous with readers.”
不过，现在人们开始认真对待了。就像瑞安对我说的，特朗普成为候选人“不同寻常，史无前例”，“假装不是这么回事就是欺骗读者”。
It would also be an abdication of political journalism’s most solemn duty: to ferret out what the candidates will be like in the most powerful office in the world.
假装不是这么回事也将意味着放弃政治新闻最庄严的责任：弄清候选人们入主世界上最有权力的办公室后会是怎样的。
It may not always seem fair to Trump or his supporters. But journalism shouldn’t measure itself against any one campaign’s definition of fairness. It is journalism’s job to be true to the readers and viewers, and true to the facts, in a way that will stand up to history’s judgment. To do anything less would be untenable.
对特朗普或他的支持者来说，它可能不会永远公平。但是新闻业不应该根据一场竞选对公平的定义来衡量自己。新闻业的责任是忠于读者和观众，忠于事实，经得起历史的评价。不这样做说不过去。