By now, seeing one of Google’s experimental, driverless cars zipping down Silicon Valley’s Highway 101, or parking itself on a San Francisco street, is not all that unusual. Indeed, as automakers like Audi, Toyota and Mercedes-Benz make plans for self-driving vehicles, it is only a matter of time before such cars become a big part of the great American traffic jam.
现在，看到谷歌(Google)的一辆无人驾驶试验车在硅谷的101公路(Highway 101)上快速行使，或是自己停靠在旧金山的街头，并不那么稀奇。实际上，包括奥迪(Audi)、丰田(Toyota)、梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)在内的汽车制造商都在制定自动驾驶车辆计划，这种车加入美国交通大阻塞，并成为其重要组成部分只是个时间问题。
While driverless cars might still seem like science fiction outside the Valley, the people working and thinking about these technologies are starting to ask what these autos could mean for the city of the future. The short answer is “a lot.”
尽管在硅谷以外的地方，无人驾驶车辆可能依然像是科幻小说才有的东西，但那些开发和研究这些技术的人开始问道，这种汽车对未来的城市可能意味着什么。简单的答案是“意味着很多东西”。
Imagine a city where you don’t drive in loops looking for a parking spot because your car drops you off and scoots off to some location to wait, sort of like taxi holding pens at airports. Or maybe it is picked up by a robotic minder and carted off with other vehicles, like a row of shopping carts.
想象一下，在一座城市，你不用绕着圈地寻找停车位，因为你的车会把你放下，然后快速开到某个地方等着，有点像机场的出租车等候区。或者，它可能会被机器人看守员收走，和其他车辆一起像一排购物手推车一样运走。
Inner-city parking lots could become parks. Traffic lights could be less common because hidden sensors in cars and streets coordinate traffic. And, yes, parking tickets could become a rarity since cars would be smart enough to know where they are not supposed to be.
市区内的停车场可能会变成公园。交通灯可能没现在这么常见，因为隐藏在车里和街道上的传感器会协调交通。而且，是的，违规停车罚单可能会变得罕见，因为汽车足够智能，知道不应该停在哪些地方。
As scientists and car companies forge ahead — many expect self-driving cars to become commonplace in the next decade — researchers, city planners and engineers are contemplating how city spaces could change if our cars start doing the driving for us. There are risks, of course. People might be more open to a longer daily commute, leading to even more urban sprawl.
当科学家和汽车公司奋勇向前，且许多人预计自动驾驶汽车会在下一个10年普及时，研究人员、城市规划者和工程师正在思考，如果汽车开始为我们提供驾驶服务，城市空间可能会发生什么变化。当然，会有风险。人们可能更能接受更长的每日通勤距离，导致城市进一步扩张。
That city of the future could have narrower streets because parking spots would no longer be necessary. And the air would be cleaner because people would drive less. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 30 percent of driving in business districts is spent in a hunt for a parking spot, and the agency estimates that almost a billion miles of driving is wasted each year looking for parking.
未来的城市街道可能更窄，因为停车位不再是必须的。空气可能会更干净，因为人们开车更少了。据全国公路交通安全管理局(National Highway Traffic Safety Administration)称，商业区30%的驾驶是为了寻找停车位，该部门估计，每年有10亿英里（约合16亿公里）的驾驶里程被浪费在了寻找停车的地方上。
“What automation is going to allow is repurposing, both of spaces in cities, and of the car itself,” said Ryan Calo, an assistant professor at the University of Washington School of Law who specializes in robotics and drones.
“对城市空间和汽车本身来说，自动化将带来目标的重新设定，”华盛顿大学法学院(University of Washington School of Law)专门研究机器人和无人机的助理教授瑞安·卡罗(Ryan Calo)说。
Harvard University researchers note that as much as one-third of the land in some cities is devoted to parking spots. Some city planners expect that the cost of homes will fall as more space will become available in cities. If parking on city streets is reduced and other vehicles on roadways become smaller, homes and offices will take up that space. Today’s big-box stores and shopping malls require immense areas for parking, but without those needs, they could move further into cities.
哈佛大学(Harvard University)的研究人员指出，在部分城市，多达三分之一的土地被用于建停车位。一些城市规划者预计，随着城市里出现更多可利用空间，住房成本将有所下降。如果减少在城市街道上停车，道路上的其他车辆也变得更小，房屋和办公室便可以利用那些空间。如今的巨型商店和购物中心需要很大的地方用来停车，但如果没有这些需求，它们就能往城里搬。
The Autonomous Intersection Management project, created by the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at the University of Texas at Austin, imagines cities where traffic lights no longer exist but sensors direct the flow of traffic. Although a video showing off the automated traffic intersection looks like total chaos, the researchers insist that such intersections will reduce congestion and fuel costs and can allow cars to drive through cities without stopping.
根据德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)人工智能实验室(Artificial Intelligence Laboratory)创建的自动十字路口管理(Autonomous Intersection Management)项目的设想，城市将不再有交通指示灯，车流将由传感器引导。一段视频展示了自动控制的交通十字路口，尽管看上去一片混乱，但研究人员坚称，这样的十字路口会减缓拥堵，降低燃料成本，还能够让汽车在穿过整个城市时不用停车。
Of course, getting to a utopian city will take a little longer than circling the block looking for a spot. A spokesman for Audi said a fully automated car would not be available until the end of the decade. And the regulatory issues to be addressed before much of this could come true are, to put it mildly, forbidding.
当然，达到一个理想城市花的时间，会比绕着街区找停车位的时间略长。奥迪发言人表示，要到本个十年的末期，完全自动控制的汽车才会出现在市场上。说得委婉一些，在这一切成为现实之前，要解决的监管问题让人望而生畏。
But the pieces are starting to fall into place, at least enough to excite future-minded thinkers. Last year, Jerry Brown, the governor of California, signed legislation paving the way for driverless cars in California, making it the third state to explicitly allow the cars on the road. And federal agencies are starting to consider their impact. In May the Transportation Department made its first formal policy statement on autonomous vehicles, encouraging cities to allow testing of driverless cars.
但事情正在顺利向前发展，至少足以让着眼于未来的思考者们感到兴奋。去年，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)签署了一项法律，为无人驾驶汽车在加州扫清了道路，这让加州成为了第三个明确允许无人驾驶汽车上路的州。5月，美国运输部(Transportation Department)制定了针对自动车辆的首份正式政策声明，鼓励各城市允许对无人驾驶汽车进行测试。
But to some, this promise — or overpromise as the case may be — sounds familiar.
但对一些人而言，这种承诺（或许，事实可能证明是过度承诺）听上去很熟悉。
“The future city is not going to be a congestion-free environment. That same prediction was made that cars would free cities from the congestion of horses on the street,” said Bryant Walker Smith, a fellow at the Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School and a member of the Center for Automotive Research at Stanford. “You have to build the sewer system to accommodate the breaks during the Super Bowl; it won’t be as pretty as we’re envisioning.”
“未来的城市不会完全没有拥堵。历史上人们也曾做出同样的预言，称汽车会让城市不再受街道上的马车拥堵之苦，”斯坦福大学法学院互联网与社会中心(Center for Internet and Society at Stanford Law School)研究员、斯坦福大学汽车研究中心(Center for Automotive Research)成员布莱恩特·沃克·史密斯(Bryant Walker Smith)说，“你必须建设一个可以应对‘超级碗’广告间歇的下水道系统。情况不会像我们想象得那么美好。”
Mr. Smith has an alternative vision of the impact of automated cars, which he believes are inevitable. Never mind that nice city center. He says driverless cars will allow people to live farther from their offices and that the car could become an extension of home.
史密斯相信，自动驾驶汽车是不可避免的，但关于它们的影响，他有另一种想法。漂亮的市中心自不必提。他说，无人驾驶汽车会允许人们住在离办公室更远的地方，汽车可以成为家的延伸。
“I could sleep in my driverless car, or have an exercise bike in the back of the car to work out on the way to work,” he said. “My time spent in my car will essentially be very different.”
“我可以在我的无人驾驶汽车里睡觉，或是在车的后面放一台固定式健身脚踏车，可以在上班的路上锻炼，”他说，“我在车里度过的时间会在本质上大为不同。”
“Driverless cars won’t appear in a vacuum,” Mr. Smith said. Other predictions for the future city imagine fewer traditional-looking cars. Taking their place will be drones and robots that deliver goods.
“无人驾驶汽车不会出现在真空里，”史密斯说。对未来城市的其他预言还设想，传统外表的车辆会更少。取而代之的将是无人机和送货的机器人。
Oh, and that food-delivery car double-parked outside? That, Mr. Calo said, will be replaced by a delivery drone.
而外面那辆和另一辆车并排停着的送餐车呢？卡罗说，“它会被送货的无人机取代。”