The case of the intoxicated government worker who flew a drone onto the White House lawn launched a million jokes. Although none was actually better than the straight-faced headline in The New York Times: “White House Drone Crash Described as a U.S. Worker’s Drunken Lark.”
醉酒的政府雇员把一架无人机飞到了白宫的草坪上，引起了很多笑话。不过没有哪个比《纽约时报》一本正经的报道标题强（本文中文版）：《白宫无人机坠毁事件被指为政府员工酒后嬉闹》(White House Drone Crash Described as a U.S. Worker’s Drunken Lark)。
“My first question is whether the guy’s going to get a D.U.I. for droning under the influence,” said Ben Trapnell, an aviation professor at the University of North Dakota. I had a great phone conversation with Trapnell about drones, a.k.a. unmanned aerial vehicles. It led me to conclude that, like so many other things in American society, this is a matter about which people differ depending on whether they live in a crowded place or an empty place.
“我的第一个问题是，这家伙是否会因为在醉酒的情况下玩无人机而被记醉驾，”北达科他大学(University of North Dakota)的航空学教授本·特拉普内尔(Ben Trapnell)说。关于无人机，我与特拉普内尔通过电话进行了一次非常棒的交谈。这促使我得出结论，与美国社会的诸多其他事情一样，人们之所以对其持有不同意见，取决于他们是居住在一个拥挤的地方，还是一个空旷的地方。
Empty, like North Dakota, and you think of a flying camera doing crop inspections. Maybe an Amazon drone arriving at your house on the prairie with the espresso maker you just ordered.
在像北达科他州这样空旷的地方，你会想到用飞行的摄像机检查作物。或许来自亚马逊(Amazon)的无人机会与你刚购买的咖啡机一起到达你家宽阔的草坪上。
Crowded, and you imagine a mini-helicopter crashing through your apartment window. Or hitting a light pole and falling down on a baby in a stroller. Or running into a plane, which has nearly happened on several occasions.
在拥挤的地方，你会想象一架迷你直升机撞破了你公寓的窗户。或者撞上了一个灯杆，砸到了婴儿车里的孩子。抑或是撞上了一架飞机，这种情况已经有数次险些发生。
Even the much-heralded promise of drone-delivered pizza sounds awful if you envision hundreds of pies smashing into one another over Brooklyn every Friday night.
就连据称即将到来的无人机披萨饼递送，听起来也很可怕，请想象一下，每周五晚上，数以百计的披萨饼在布鲁克林的上空相撞的情形。
But about the drunk droner. This saga starred an off-duty employee of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency who had been drinking at an apartment not far from the White House when he decided, in the middle of the night, to try out a friend’s drone. He then quickly lost control of the little fellow, which crash-landed in what is at least theoretically the most heavily protected lawn in the United States.
我们再来看看这个醉酒的无人机玩家。这个传奇故事的主角是国家地理空间情报局（National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency，简称NGA）的一名工作人员，当时已经下班的他在距离白宫不远的一个公寓里喝酒。夜半时分，他决定试试朋友的无人机。然后，他很快失去了对这个小机器的控制，无人机坠落在了白宫的草坪上，至少理论上，这是美国保护最为严密的一片草坪。
The public conversation instantly turned to terrorism and whether a maniac could use a recreational drone to drop a bomb, or start a chemical attack. This is a terrible worry. But at least we have multitudes of dedicated, vigilant public servants, virtually all of them totally sober, working night and day to make sure this kind of thing doesn’t happen.
于是，公众立即开始谈论恐怖主义，以及是否会有疯子通过娱乐用的无人机来投掷炸弹或者进行化学攻击。这是一种可怕的担忧。但是，我们至少还拥有众多专注而警惕的公务员，他们几乎个个完全清醒，正在夜以继日地工作，以确保这种事情不会发生。
However, we’re not giving enough attention to the threat of normal American idiots. The kind of people who think it’s fun to sit in the backyard and point laser lights at the cockpits of incoming planes, or participate in a YouTube challenge that involves trying to snort a condom up one’s nose. The folks for whose benefit countless utility companies have written tips that include “don’t look for a gas leak with a candle or lighted match.”
不过，我们并没有对一般的美国白痴所造成的威胁给予足够的重视。这种人认为，坐在后院用激光照射正在靠近的飞机的驾驶员座舱，或者参与YouTube上的挑战游戏——用鼻子吹避孕套——是件好玩的事。为了这些人，无数公用事业公司都写下了相关提示，其中包括“不要用蜡烛或点燃的火柴去寻找漏气的地方”。
Drones are supereasy to buy in stores or online. Regulating their behavior is the responsibility of the Federal Aviation Administration, which is taking its sweet time. “In 2011, Congress asked the F.A.A. to come up with rules. Finally this fall they came out with rules,” said Senator Charles Schumer of New York, who’s been complaining about the delays.
无人机随便在商店或网上就可以买到。负责控制相关行为的联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）迟迟没有行动。纽约州参议员查尔斯·舒默(Charles Schumer)表示，“2011年，国会要求FAA制定规定。他们最终在今年秋天公布了规定。”舒默一直对延期出台规定感到不满。
But wait, there’s more! “We don’t even know what they say,” Schumer continued. The F.A.A. isn’t sharing until more of the bureaucracy gets a crack at its handiwork: “They won’t make them public until the Office of Management and Budget reviews them. O.M.B. then sends them to other federal agencies.”
但等等，还不止这些！舒默还表示，“我们甚至不知道他们说了什么。”FAA没有分享信息，直到有更多官僚机构想要看看他们的成果。“在管理与预算办公室（Office of Management and Budget，简称OMB）对这些规定评估之前，他们不会公开。OMB会将这些规定转给其他联邦机构。”
While we’re waiting around, confusion abounds. Commercial drone uses are theoretically prohibited, but there’s a widespread feeling that in the absence of rules, anything goes.
我们在等待的同时，心里有很多困惑。无人机理论上被禁止用于商业用途，但人们普遍感觉，在没有出台规定的情况下，任何事情都有可能发生。
Take Representative Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, whose wedding photographer had a drone taking pictures during the happy occasion. When critics accused him of violating F.A.A. rules, Maloney said he “wasn’t up-to-date on the lack of regulations around the emerging technology.” The same thing was true, the congressman argued, of “most people who are about to get married.” Excellent point! Although most people who are about to get married are not serving on the House transportation subcommittee on aviation.
以纽约州众议员肖恩·帕特里克·马洛尼(Sean Patrick Maloney)为例，他的婚礼摄影师在这个喜庆的场合利用无人机拍照。当批评人士指责他违反了FAA的规定时，马洛尼表示，他“知道没有针对这一新兴技术的规定，不了解最新情况”。这名国会议员辩称，“大多数打算结婚的人”都不了解情况。说得真好！但大多数打算结婚的人并没有在众议院航空运输委员会任职。
One of the very few drone regulations that does exist prohibits flying near airports. But clearly some do it anyway. And if you catch one, there’s no ID number to tell you who owns it. “The ones being reported in near collisions are (flown by) hobbyists, and they can go up to 55 pounds,” said a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association, which is deeply unenthusiastic about the whole drone idea. “These aren’t like geese. The ones that can be purchased on the internet can go as high as 7-8,000 feet.”
目前对无人机的监管规则很少，其中一条是禁止无人机在机场附近飞行。但很明显，有些人还是这么做了。如果你发现了一架无人机，上面没有识别号码会告诉你它的主人是谁。“报道中提到的险些发生碰撞的无人机都是由业余爱好者操纵的，无人机重量最高可以达到55磅（约合25千克），”美国民航飞行员协会(Air Line Pilots Association)发言人说。“它们不像大雁。那些可以在网上买到的无人机的飞行高度最多可达7000-8000英尺（约合2135米至2440米）。”该协会对无人机这东西持有很不以为意的看法。
And then you’ve got privacy issues. “They better beware, because I’ve got a shotgun,” said Senator Rand Paul, when asked about drones after the White House incident. This was during an interview, in which CNN was trying to demonstrate that it is possible to communicate with a prominent politician via Snapchat. (It is possible, but probably not a good idea.)
接下来是隐私问题。参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)在白宫事件发生后被问及无人机问题时说，“他们最好小心一点，因为我有一把散弹枪。”保罗是在接受CNN采访时发表上述言论的，当时CNN试图展示他们可以通过Snapchat与知名政治人士交谈。（这是可以做到的，但或许不是一个好主意。）