Jeff Bezos, as always, is thinking outside the box — way, way outside.
像往常一样，杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)的思维又不走寻常路了——甚至到了有点离谱的地步。
Sunday night on “60 Minutes,” Mr. Bezos, the Amazon founder, floated the notion of using drones to deliver packages. He showed Charlie Rose a video of a tiny helicopter seizing a package from a warehouse and airlifting it to a house. The drone then took off again.
在周日晚间的《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目上，亚马逊的创始人贝佐斯提出了使用无人机送货的想法。他为查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)展示了一段视频。视频中，一架微型无人直升机从一座仓库里抓起了一个包裹，把包裹空运到了一座房屋的门口。然后，这架无人机重新起飞。
Amazon has already named its future delivery system Prime Air. “I know this looks like science fiction. It’s not,” Mr. Bezos said.
亚马逊已经把这个未来的送货系统命名为Prime Air。贝佐斯说，“我知道这看起来像科幻小说。但它不是。”
Still, even the hyper-optimistic Mr. Bezos cautioned that there were “years of additional work from this point.” He told the show the hardest challenge would be convincing the Federal Aviation Administration that this is a good idea.
尽管如此，即使是超级乐观的贝佐斯也说，“从现在开始，还需要再付出几年的努力。”他在节目中说，最艰巨的挑战是让美国联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）相信，这是一个好主意。
Well, the F.A.A. and everyone else. The commercial use of drones was legalized early in 2012, but there has been a good deal of outcry about drones possibly being used surveillance. Some communities are banning local police from using drones. How receptive they would be to e-commerce applications is unclear.
好吧，不只是需要说服FAA，还需要说服所有人。尽管2012年初无人机商用已经合法化，但是许多人抗议说，无人机可能会用于监控用途，一些社区禁止了当地警方使用无人机。目前还不清楚他们有多大的意愿接受将无人机用于电子商务用途。
An Amazon promotional page for Prime Air, however, said the delivery system was practically a done deal.
不过，亚马逊为Prime Air制作的一个宣传网页称，推出这个物流系统已经是板上钉钉的事。
“From a technology point of view, we’ll be ready to enter commercial operations as soon as the necessary regulations are in place,” the company said. It said that could be two years away.
该公司说，“从技术的角度讲，一旦取得监管部门必要的许可，我们就可以开始商业运作了。”该公司还说，可能还需要两年时间。
No mention was made of what would happen if you live in an apartment. Or whether you would get your money back if your neighbor shot down your delivery.
亚马逊没有提到如果你住在公寓怎么办。或者，如果邻居用枪把你的快递打下来，你能否申请退款。
Or, as Mr. Bezos said: “The hard part here is putting in all the redundancy, all the reliability, all the systems you need to say, ‘Look, this thing can’t land on somebody’s head while they’re walking around their neighborhood’… That’s not good.”
或者如贝佐斯所说，“最艰难的部分是，确保冗余性、可靠性，建立各种必要的系统，从而可以保证有人在社区里溜达时，这个东西不会降落到人家头上。那样的话可就不好办了。”
If Amazon could do it, so presumably could Walmart and the many other retailers trying to do same-day delivery. It might bring a whole new meaning to the phrase “e-commerce wars.”
如果亚马逊能做到这一点，沃尔玛和其他许多努力做到当日送货的零售商大概也能这么做。这可能会给“电商大战”赋予一个全新的意义。
The general reaction among Amazon-watchers, however, was that Amazon had scored a significant P.R. coup. “60 Minutes” had teased the revelation over the weekend, setting Twitter afire.
不过，亚马逊的关注者们的普遍反应是，亚马逊打了一次漂亮的公关牌。《60分钟》在周末大肆调侃了这个想法，于是在Twitter上也引发了热烈讨论。
“Does @Amazon sell pets? I would savor the irony of ordering a bird that is delivered via flying robot,” wrote @scottEweinberg.
Twitter用户@scottEweinberg说，“@亚马逊 卖宠物吗？要是订购一只鸟，再用飞行机器人送过来的话，那可太搞笑了。”
“Next, Amazon fulfillment centers in your basement,” speculated @delrey.
Twitter用户@delrey猜想说，“接下来，亚马逊就该在你家地下室建配送中心了。”
That did seem about the only innovation left.
那似乎的确是唯一一个贝佐斯还没有尝试过的创新想法了。