NAIROBI, Kenya — One of the world’s most tenacious humanitarian groups said Wednesday that it could no longer endure the risks that come with operating in Somalia, in a move that underscored the continued violence in the country despite recent steps toward stability.
肯尼亚内罗毕——全球最顽强的一家人道主义组织在周三表示，他们已经无法承受在索马里开展行动的风险，尽管近年出现了稳定的趋势，此事还是突显了该国持续存在的暴力问题。
After suffering years of attacks on its staff members in Somalia, the international medical charity Doctors Without Borders said that it would shut down all operations in the country after 22 years of working there.
国际医疗慈善组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)称，由于其员工在索马里连年遭受袭击，该组织将停止在这个国家的所有活动。无国界医生在索马里已经开展了22年的工作。
“The closure of our activities is a direct result of extreme attacks on our staff,” said the group’s international president, Unni Karunakara, “in an environment where armed groups and civilian leaders increasingly support, tolerate or condone the killing, assaulting and abducting of humanitarian aid workers.”
“我们停止活动的直接原因是针对我们员工的极端攻击，”该组织国际主席恩尼·卡云勒卡亚(Unni Karunakara)说，“这里的武装组织和平民领导者正越来越多地支持、姑息或容忍对人道主义救援人士的杀戮、袭击和绑架。”
The move will strip many civilians of access to health care. Last year in Somalia, the group provided outpatient treatment to 624,200 people, admitted an additional 41,100 to hospitals and performed 2,750 surgeries.
这一举措将导致许多平民百姓无法得到医疗服务。该组织去年在索马里向62.42万人提供了门诊治疗，另外接收了4.11万人入院治疗，实施了2750台手术。
An employee at the Daynile hospital in the capital, Mogadishu, said the group’s pullout would be “disastrous,” though he added that Doctors Without Borders had pledged to continue supporting the hospital for three months.
首都摩加迪沙的代内尔医院的一名员工称，该组织的撤离将是“一场灾难”，不过他还说无国界医生承诺会继续向医院提供三个月的支持。
Founded in Paris in 1971 as Médecins Sans Frontières and often referred to by the French initials M.S.F., the group prides itself on being “neutral, independent and impartial.” Staff members deliver medical treatment to people affected by wars and natural disasters, to communities ravaged by epidemics and those that otherwise simply would not have access to medical services.
无国界医生于1971年在巴黎成立，人们往往用它的法文名Médecins Sans Frontières首字母缩写MSF来称呼它。“中立、独立和公正”是该组织引以自傲的守则。组织成员会向遭受战争和自然灾难的人、流行病肆虐的社区以及其他一些无法得到医疗服务的人提供医疗救治。
Its workers have a reputation as among the bravest in the field, often the first ones in when disaster strikes and the last to leave. In 1999, Doctors Without Borders was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
它的员工以在实地工作中作风英勇而著称，发生灾难时往往第一个到场，最后一个离开。1999年无国界医生获得了诺贝尔和平奖。
The group operates in some of the most dangerous places in the world, including Syria and Afghanistan. But the inherent and seemingly growing dangers of its work have become clear through a series of recent episodes.
该组织在全世界最危险的几处地方开展工作，包括叙利亚和阿富汗。然而随着近年一系列事件的发生，这项工作本身固有且日渐加剧的危险性被凸现出来。
In South Sudan this month, a group of armed men attacked a vehicle belonging to the group on the outskirts of the capital, Juba. Two staff members were wounded, one of them, identified only as Joseph, 28, died two days later. Doctors Without Borders requested an investigation into what the group’s director of operations, Marcel Langenbach, called a “brutal attack.”
本月在南苏丹，一群武装男子在首都朱巴郊外袭击了无国界医生的一辆车。两名员工受伤，其中一人——仅知他名叫约瑟夫(Joseph)，28岁——在两天后去世。该组织行动总监马塞尔·朗根巴赫(Marcel Langenbach)称这是一场“残忍的袭击”，并要求展开调查。
Last week, the group announced that it would suspend activities in and around the town of Pinga in the Democratic Republic of Congo after its staff members there were threatened.
在员工遭到威胁后，该组织上周宣布暂停在刚果民主共和国平加镇内及周边的活动。
Dr. Karunakara said he had gone early in the morning to the Somali Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, to break the news. He seemed visibly disappointed to have to make the withdrawal, calling it “undoubtedly the most difficult announcement I have had to make.”
卡云勒卡亚说，他一大早就前往肯尼亚内罗毕的索马里大使馆宣布了这个消息。可以明显看到他对这次撤离感到失望，称这“无疑是我有生以来做过的最艰难的决定”。
Somalia plunged into chaos in 1991 after warlords brought down the central government. That same year, Doctors Without Borders began operating there. The group stayed even after American troops and United Nations peacekeepers left. The country has suffered through warring militias, pirates and Islamist militants, as well as devastating drought and famine.
在1991年中央政府被军阀推翻后，索马里陷入混乱深渊。无国界医生就是那一年开始在索马里展开工作。甚至在美军和联合国维和部队撤离后都继续留了下来。这个国家在游击队、海盗和伊斯兰武装分子的冲突中备受煎熬，此外还有严重的旱灾和饥荒。
African Union peacekeepers managed to push the Shabab out of Mogadishu, and members of the diaspora have returned, leading to a property boom in the capital and an array of new businesses popping up. When asked about the recent security gains, Dr. Karunakara said, “We do not share that optimism.”
非洲联盟(African Union)维和部队成功地将伊斯兰青年运动(Shabab)逐出了摩加迪沙，流落他乡的人开始回来，给这个首都的房地产业带来繁荣景象，一系列新的商企不断涌现。被问及对近年安全状况有所改善的看法时，卡云勒卡亚说，“我们没那么乐观。”
This year, bombings have rocked popular restaurants and the court complex. In June, 15 people were killed in the attack by Shabab militants on a United Nations compound in Mogadishu.
今年一些热闹的餐馆和法院大楼屡遭炸弹袭击。6月，伊斯兰青年运动的武装分子对摩加迪沙一处联合国营地发动攻击，造成15人丧生。
“We have reached our limit,” Dr. Karunakara said. He added, “Unfortunately, the Somali people will pay the highest cost.”
“我们已经达到了自己的极限，”卡云勒卡亚说。“很不幸，最沉重的损失将由索马里人民来承担。”