Just after sunset on a recent Friday night, what looked like a silent flash mob or a mass game of charades was taking place in a cordoned-off cobblestone square in the South Street Seaport: some 300 people dancing wildly, sans music. Or so it seemed.
不久前的一个周五，太阳刚刚落山，在纽约南街海港(South Street Seaport)用拦线隔开的鹅卵石广场上，一波看似无声的快闪活动，又或者说一部大型哑剧游戏正在上演：大约300人疯狂地舞蹈，不带音乐伴奏。至少看似如此。
There were actually three D.J.s dueling for the crowd’s attention, but their tunes could be heard only through wireless headphones, which glowed red, blue or green depending on which channel the reveler chose.
其实，这里有三名DJ，他们正在为吸引人们的注意力而竞争。只不过他们的声音需要通过人们头上的无线耳机才能听到。耳机放出红光、蓝光或者绿光——取决于狂欢的听众们的频道选择。
It was a silent disco, a phenomenon that has taken off at music festivals (Coachella, Bonnaroo), bars and weddings as a way to party without running afoul of noise ordinances and curfews — or in the case of universities, studying students (U.C.L.A. recently held one in the library rotunda in the run-up to finals).
这是一场安静的迪斯科，已经出现在了科切拉(Coachella)和波纳若(Bonnaroo)等音乐节上，还有酒吧和婚礼等场合，作为一种不违背扰民规则和宵禁法令的聚会方式；在大学里也不会打扰学习的学生（前不久，加州大学洛杉矶分校在期末考试前期就在图书馆大厅举办了这样一次活动）。
This is clubbing for people who don’t want to be subjected to the will of one D.J. for the evening and, because the wearer controls the volume, clubbing for people who don’t want ringing ears and sore throats the next morning.
这样的夜店活动适合那些不想整晚听一个DJ打碟的人，听者可以通过耳机自己调节音量；也适合那些不想一觉醒来还觉得耳鸣、喉咙嘶哑的人。
“I used to go to clubs, but the music is too loud,” said Andre Coppedge, 38, who drove with seven friends from Allentown, Pa., to the South Street Seaport. “Here you party the whole time, and if you don’t like the song, you just change the frequency.”
“以前我也去夜店，但音乐太吵了，”38岁的安德鲁·科佩奇(Andre Coppedge)说，他开车带七个朋友从宾夕法尼亚州的阿伦敦(Allentown)赶来南街海港。“在这儿，你可以一直狂欢，如果你不喜欢某首歌，换个频道就是了。”
Joshua Diamond, 30, who came with his fiancée and another couple, said the silent discos are “more PG than regular clubbing.”
30岁的约书亚·迪亚蒙德(Joshua Diamond)是和未婚妻和另一对情侣赶来的，他说这种无声迪斯科“和普通夜店相比，更像是家长控制级的”。
In fact, in deference to the under-13 attendees, of which there were a few, House of Pain’s “Jump Around” was edited to remove offensive lyrics. “We didn’t used to do that, but we got bombarded with emails from parents when we tried to make these events over 21,” said Castel Valere-Couturier, founder of Sound Off Experience, which ran the disco.
事实上，当晚的确有一些13岁以下的参加者，考虑到他们，主办方特意删去了“痛苦屋”(House of Pain)的《跳来跳去》(Jump Around)这首歌里令人不快的歌词。“我们过去没有这样做过，但我们打算把活动限制在21岁以上者参加时，却收到家长们的大量电子邮件，”卡斯特尔·维利尔-库特里尔(Castel Valere-Couturier)说，他是这次迪斯科活动主办方“无声体验”(Sound Off Experience)的创始人。
Those who stumbled upon the event (as many did, because there was no booming music to draw them over) may have thought it was a pop-up garden party, a cult, or the en masse equivalent of the guy who runs on the gym treadmill singing aloud to a song only he can hear.
偶然撞见这次活动的人（很多人都是这样，因为没有震耳欲聋的音乐吸引人们过来）可能会觉得这是一次快闪花园派对，一种小众活动，或者是和那种在健身房的跑步机上戴着耳机大声唱歌的人差不多的事，只不过是很多人一起做罢了。
To an onlooker with no headphones, it sounded like an impromptu a cappella battle of the bands, with a bunch of people pogoing up and down singing Kriss Kross’s “Jump” while others yelled the words to Montell Jordan’s “This Is How We Do It.”
不戴耳机的旁观者会觉得眼前的场面好像一场即兴的无伴奏合唱比赛，一群人跟着克里斯·克洛斯(Kriss Kross)的《跳》(Jump)上蹿下跳，另一群人大声唱出蒙代尔·乔丹(Montell Jordan)的《我们就是这样做的》(This Is How We Do It)。
Whether the experience is isolating or integrating depends on whom you ask.
这种行为是孤独的还是群体的？这要看你问的是什么人了。
“This is what we’ve been reduced to: dancing with ourselves,” said Bernadette Gay, 56, who, hips shaking and white iPhone headphones snaking out of her pocket, could have been the classic ad for iTunes.
“我们最后就落到这种地步：自己和自己跳舞，”56岁的伯纳黛特·盖伊(Bernadette Gay)说，她扭臀起舞，白色iPhone耳机从口袋里蜿蜒而出，眼前这一幕简直有点像iTunes的经典广告。
Ms. Gay, who works for a health care company, tried the silent disco channels briefly, but returned the big black wireless headphones, deciding she herself was the best D.J. (Her pick: the Colombian singer Carlos Vives.) She added: “I remember when Walkmen came out. It’s isolating. Where’s the connection?”
盖伊女士在一家卫生保健公司工作，她来跳了一会儿无声迪斯科，就把发给她的那只大大的黑色无线耳机还掉了，觉得自己才是最好的DJ（她选的是哥伦比亚歌手卡洛斯·维弗斯[Carlos Vives]的歌）。她说：“我记得随身听刚出来的时候，它就是非常孤独的，联系在什么地方？”
But Chanez Baali, 31, a media technology company director in Woodside, Queens, said that she frequently goes alone to silent discos. “You’re in your own little world,” she said. “You stop thinking about what you look like, and so you’re not as shy about striking up conversations.” It helps that the silliness factor makes everyone more approachable, she said.
但31岁的夏内·巴里(Chanez Baali)说，她经常去跳无声迪斯科。她是皇后区伍德赛德(Woodside)一家媒体技术公司的总监。“你处在自己的小小世界里，”她说。“你不再想自己长的得是不是好看，到处和人聊天也不会觉得害羞。”她说，“这种傻乎乎的感觉让所有人都变得更容易亲近。”
The first major silent disco was in England at Glastonbury in 2005, whose organizers were battling noise restrictions.
第一次无声迪斯科活动是2005年在英格兰的格拉斯顿伯里(Glastonbury)举行的，此前组织者们一直都在和噪音禁令作斗争。
Though Bonnaroo in Tennessee quickly followed suit, the quiet riots took a while to take off in the United States, in part because of the technology. They used infrared headphones, which required a line of sight to the transmitter; when people moved, the sound would often go out.
田纳西州的波纳若音乐节很快效仿，过了一段时间，这种宁静的狂欢才在美国传开，部分是由于技术因素。活动使用红外线耳机，信号传送需要保持在一定范围之内；人们移动时，声音经常断掉。
“You’d never lose yourself in the music because the minute it would hiccup or crackle, you’d go out of it,” said Ryan Dowd, formerly a tour manager for bands like Widespread Panic and Drive-By Truckers, and now founder of Silent Events, which has organized noiseless festivities for clients including Bonnaroo and Gawker Media. (They now use short-range radio frequency headphones, which don’t present the same problem.)
“你没法真正沉浸在音乐之中，如果声音断断续续的，或者出现劈啪声，你的情绪就中断了，”瑞安·多德(Ryan Dowd)说，他曾给“广泛恐慌”(Widespread Panic)和“卡车枪击”(Drive-By Truckers)之类的乐队当过巡演经理，也是“无声活动”(Silent Events)的创始人之一，为波纳若和高客传媒(Gawker Media)之类的客户举办过无声活动。他们现在使用短波无线电耳机，就没有这种问题了。
There are more than a dozen companies orchestrating silent parties, with names like Hush Concerts and ZEROdB (as in decibel), most of whose founders stumbled on the concept while abroad.
承办这种无声派对的已经有十几个公司，名字也是“安静音乐会”(Hush Concerts)和“零分贝”(ZEROdb)之类，大多数创建者都是在美国之外的地方偶然发现这种形式的。
Mr. Valere-Couturier tried it beachside in Israel. William Petz, founder of Quiet Events, based in Astoria, Queens, spotted it four years ago while on a cruise with family to Bermuda.
维利尔-库特里尔在以色列的海滨尝试过这种形式。皇后区阿斯托利亚的“宁静活动”(Quiet Events)的创始人威廉·派茨(William Petz)四年前和家人去百慕大群岛旅游时发现了它。
“My girlfriend and I were like, ‘This sounds really stupid, but what else is there to do on a ship?’ ”
“我和女朋友想，‘这看起来挺蠢，不过在船上还有什么别的可干呢？’”
He conceded it was fun and promptly invested in 350 pairs of headphones, planning to sell them on eBay if the business failed. He now has more than 6,000 pairs, bookings as far away as China and a standing night at the beer garden at Bohemian Hall in Astoria, which draws up to 1,000 people. The bar’s manager Andrew Walters said the disco is indeed an attraction. “He has his own list of people and they come out just for this,” he said.
他承认，这很有意思，回来后很快效仿，买了350个耳机，打算如果公司失败的话就把它们在eBay上卖掉。现在他手中有6000多副耳机，为中国一类的遥远地方下订单，在阿斯托利亚(Astorial)波西米亚礼堂的啤酒花园里有一个固定的夜间活动，每次总能吸引1000多人。酒吧的管理者安德鲁·沃尔特斯(Andrew Walters)说，迪斯科非常吸引人。“他有他的固定客户，他们来这里就是为了跳迪斯科，”他说。
Weddings, particularly destination ones, are a new market. Mr. Dowd estimates he has gone from one or two a year to a few a month in the last year, especially since Martha Stewart Weddings approved the trend in February. Besides the live D.J., guests can choose between the bride’s channel and the groom’s channel (after the first dance, of course).
婚礼成了新市场，特别是在旅游胜地举行的婚礼。活动举办者多德说，去年一年顶多有一两场婚礼会举办这种活动，不过2月的时候《玛莎·斯图尔特婚礼》(Martha Stewart Weddings)杂志报道了这个趋势，之后一个月会有好几次。除了现场DJ，客人们还可以选“新娘频道”和“新郎频道”（当然，要在第一支舞之后）。
“You get calls from people trying to do these very cool destination weddings like Maui and the Cayman Islands where you rent these villas and you think it’s carte blanche, but they’re going to shut you down at 9,” Mr. Dowd said.
“那些想在毛伊岛(Maui)和开曼群岛(Cayman Islands)之类很酷的旅游胜地举办婚礼的人打来电话，要求举办这种活动，然后我们就过去租下场地，本以为是全权委托，结果那些地方到九点就关门了，”多德说。
He also recently received a call from a well-known production studio requesting a silent disco for a scene in an upcoming film. “They’re not making fun of it, so we’re going to do it,” he said.
最近，他还接到一家著名电影公司的电话，希望在一部新片中拍摄无声迪斯科。“他们不是拿这个开玩笑的，所以我们会接这个活儿，”他说。
The newest frontier for these silent companies is fitness: yoga, boot camps and spin classes, where headphones mean the instructor doesn’t have to shout and no one needs earplugs.
无声活动公司最新的阵线是健身领域：瑜伽、野营和动感单车，戴耳机意味着教练不用大喊大叫，其他人也用不着戴耳塞。
At a silent version of a high-intensity interval workout called Shakedown Fitness, held at Black River Studios in Harlem, students from the ballet class downstairs popped up asking if the class had been canceled, because they were used to complaining about the D.J.’s hip-hop tunes drowning out their Tchaikovsky.
哈莱姆区的黑河工作室(Black River)举办名为“震撼健身”(Shakedown Fitness)的高强度健身活动，最近推出了无声版；楼上芭蕾舞班的学生纷纷跑下来问这个班是不是取消了，因为她们以前经常抱怨DJ放的嘻哈乐淹没了她们课上放的柴可夫斯基。
Mr. Petz has even tried silent comedy, which pits two entertainers against each other. “If you see the other guy has all the listeners, you have to be very visual to get people to switch over,” he said. “Like taking a shirt off.”
派茨甚至尝试过无声喜剧，让两个喜剧演员来打对台。“如果另一个演员得到了所有观众，你就得通过夸张的视觉效果把观众们赢回来，”他说，“比如把上衣脱掉。”
Kim Scolaro, 31, otherwise known as DJ Kharisma, said working silent discos is more challenging than any other party.
31岁的基姆·斯科拉罗(Kim Scolaro)艺名是DJ克里斯玛(DJ Kharisma)，她说主持无声迪斯科比主持普通无声派对更难。
“When you’re the only D.J., you can do what you want, take it easy sometimes,” said Ms. Scolaro, who worked the Seaport event. “But here you have to constantly give it your all. You’re getting instant about what songs people like and don’t like.” (At some music festivals, there is just one channel because organizers don’t want to subject the talent to battle. But Mr. Dowd said that happens infrequently.)
“如果你是唯一一个DJ，你可以随便想干什么就干什么，有时候很放松，”斯科拉罗说，她参加了南街海港的活动。“但在这儿，你随时随刻都要全力以赴。你得随时思考人们喜欢什么歌，不喜欢什么歌。”（音乐节的活动中只有一个频道，因为主办者不希望艺人们进行竞争。但多德说这种情况并不多见）。
Back on the dance floor, the D.J. on the green channel said, apparently without irony, “Let’s make some noise.” And a woman yelled, “I remember dancing to this song at someone’s bar mitzvah.” (It was the Isley Brothers’ “Shout.”) A conga line seemed to form out of nowhere, though a quick switch of channels revealed that, in fact, Gloria Estefan’s “Conga” was also playing.
回到南街海港的跳舞现场，绿色频道的DJ叫道——口气中似乎并没有讽刺的意思——“咱们来点噪音吧。”一个女人冲他喊“小孩子的成人礼才放这种歌呢。”（是“伊斯利兄弟”[Isley Brothers]的《喊叫》[Shout]）。这时突然有人跳起了康加舞，只要换台就会发现，另一个DJ在放格劳丽亚·伊斯特芬(Gloria Estefan)的《康加》(Conga)。
Just before 11 p.m., Decodar Loney, 23, took off her black boots with six-inch heels to twerk on the cobblestones.
晚上11点之前，23岁的德卡达·朗内(Decodar Loney)脱掉六英寸高跟的黑色靴子，在鹅卵石地上扭动身体。
“I couldn’t have enough fun with them on,” she said. (Thanks to the headphones, earrings were actually the most-removed accessory.) Ms. Loney, who is from Trinidad, added: “When I’m home, people tell me I have no rhythm. But I can do anything here.” In other words, who can tell if it’s bad rhythm or she’s just dancing to a different beat?
“这真是太有趣了，”她说（因为戴耳机，耳环才是人们最常摘掉的配饰）。她来自特立尼达，说，“家里人都说我没有节奏感，但在这儿我什么都能干。”换句话说，没人能看出来她是没踩对拍子，还是在跟另外一个频道跳舞。
Nearby, Nicole Lancia, 34, and her friend Kelly Washburn, 33, alternately laughed, danced and people-watched.
不远处，34岁的妮可·兰西亚(Nicole Lancia)和她的朋友，33岁的凯莉·沃什布恩(Kelly Washburn)一会儿笑，一会儿跳舞，一会儿看着其他人。
“It’s hysterical,” said Ms. Lancia, who happened on the event after a sushi dinner a block away. “It feels like you’re singing in the shower.”
“真是疯狂，”兰西亚说，她是在一条街外吃完寿司后碰巧过来参加这个活动的。“感觉就像一边淋浴一边唱歌似的。”
She and Ms. Washburn watched a woman dancing with her two sons belt out Whitney Houston’s “I’m Every Woman.”
她和沃什布恩看着旁边一个女人和她的两个儿子跟着惠特尼·休斯顿(Whitney Houston)的《我是所有女人》(I’m Every Woman)大声歌唱。
“I want to be on the same station as her,” Ms. Lancia said.
“我也想像她那么投入，”兰西亚说。