The market was sizzling six years ago when William Tracy bought a 1,300-square-foot one-bedroom loft in the Grand Madison, a 1906 building near Madison Square Park. He paid a bit more than $1.5 million, with condominium charges and taxes in the low $2,000s.
六年前，房地产市场非常火爆。彼时，威廉·特雷西(William Tracy)在麦迪逊广场公园(Madison Square Park)附近的一栋建于1906年的大楼——大麦迪逊(Grand Madison)里，买下一套1300平方英尺（约120平方米）的一居室复式公寓(loft)，价格在150万美元（约合人民币918.39万元）出头，公寓物业费及税金一共2000美元（约合人民币12245.2元）多一点。
This spring, with prices rising again, Mr. Tracy decided to sell.
今年春天，随着房价再度上涨，特雷西决定出售这套公寓。
“I was aware the prices in the building were going up, because I had Streeteasy on my computer,” he said, “and it told me every day about any apartment in my building.” He listed his condo for $1.895 million and received an offer at the first open house. The condo sold for $1.85 million — so quickly that Mr. Tracy had barely thought about where he would live.
“我知道这栋楼的房价在上涨，因为我在电脑里存着Streeteasy房产网站，”他说，“它每天都会告诉我这栋楼里所有待售公寓的情况。”他给自己的公寓标价189.5万美元（约合人民币1160.23万元），挂出第一天就收到了一份报价。很快，这套公寓就以185万美元（约合人民币1132.68万元）的价格售出了。成交速度之快，让特雷西甚至连自己要搬到哪里住还没来及考虑。
“I don’t want to buy ever again, frankly,” said Mr. Tracy, who is 65 and lived in the San Francisco area for 30 years before moving to New York almost a decade ago with his partner, who died of a heart attack a year later.
“坦率地说，我不想再买房了。”特雷西说。他现年65岁，曾在旧金山地区居住过30年。大约10年前，他和伴侣搬到了纽约，一年之后，他的伴侣死于心脏病。
“I like getting my money out of the property,” Mr. Tracy said, “and having it to do what I want with, instead of having it tied up.” If he had his druthers, he’d rather travel.
“我想把钱从房产中腾出来，”特雷西说，“将它们花在我想做的事上，而不是绑定在那。”如果他有机会自由选择的话，他宁愿去旅行。
He contacted his friend Ari M. J. Silverstein of Bond New York to help him hunt for a two-bedroom in a doorman rental building for no more than $5,000 a month.
他与在Bond New York房地产公司工作的朋友阿里·M·J·西尔弗斯坦(Ari M. J. Silverstein)取得了联系，希望他帮自己找一套两居室，楼里要有门卫，每月租金不超过5000美元（约合人民币30613元）。
“My carrying costs at the old place were $10,000 a month and I wanted to cut that,” Mr. Tracy said.
“我之前的那套公寓，每个月的持有成本就是1万美元（约合人民币61226元），我想把成本降下来。”特雷西说。
A friend suggested he try a different neighborhood. He works from home as a graphic designer, “so I am not tied to a painful commute,” he said. He knew that when it came to apartment size, price and location, “I couldn’t have all three.”
又有一位朋友建议他，不妨找个新街区试试。特雷西是一位平面设计师，在家里就可以工作，“所以不用忍受每天上下班交通的痛苦，”特雷西说。他知道，在公寓的面积、价格和位置上，“我不可能三样都占全。”
Mr. Silverstein suggested he check out the financial district, but it seemed remote. Then he mentioned the high-rises of Midtown West. “You get a lot of bang for your buck out there,” Mr. Silverstein said. “He had a lifetime worth of belongings.”
西尔弗斯坦建议他看看金融区，但那里似乎有些与世隔绝。然后他提到了西中城(midtown west)的高层楼房。“那边的性价比很高，”西尔弗斯坦说，“他有毕生储藏的宝贝家当要搬。”
At River Place on far West 42nd Street near 12th Avenue and the Hudson, Mr. Tracy saw a corner two-bedroom with 1,100 square feet and views of New Jersey.
在西42街接近12大道和哈得逊河的地方，特雷西在河流广场(River Place)看了一套转角公寓。它有两间卧室，面积为1100平方英尺（约合102平方米），窗外可以看到新泽西的景色。
His condo, on a low floor, had received little sunlight. “Every day in the year you had to turn on every light in the house because it felt dark,” he said. “It was like living in a terrarium.” So this apartment “went to the top of my list right away,” he said. The rent was $4,490 a month.
他自己那套公寓的楼层很低，难以照到阳光。“一年到头，每天你都得把公寓里所有的灯都打开，否则就会觉得很阴暗，”他说，“住在那里就像是生活在一个玻璃饲养箱里。”所以，目前看的这套公寓“马上就成为我的备选方案里最靠前的选项，”他说。这里租金是每月4490美元（约合人民币27490.47元）。
Wanting to see other options, he visited the 53-story Biltmore on West 47th Street. For $4,195 a month, a one-bedroom with a home office was available on the floor below the penthouse.
他还想看看其它选择，于是去了位于西47街的53层高的比尔特莫尔(Biltmore)大楼。楼内从顶层往下数的第二层，有一套公寓待租，每月租金4195美元（约合人民币25684.31元）。公寓里有一间卧室，还带有一个家庭办公区。
A high-floor apartment “totally was interesting to me,” he said, “and the views were spectacular.”
楼层高的公寓“非常吸引我，”他说，“窗外景色很壮观。”
This apartment was relatively small. The home office could accommodate a convertible sofa, but not when it was unfurled into a bed.
这间公寓的面积相对较小。家庭办公区内可以容纳一张折叠起来的沙发床，但是把它打开就摆不下了。
Mr. Tracy didn’t care. “I was so enthusiastic about it, I decided I would get rid of all my stuff,” he said. Friends reminded him that he liked his stuff.
特雷西并不介意它的面积。“我太喜欢这套公寓了，当时甚至决定家里所有的东西我都可以不要了。”他说。朋友们提醒他，那些东西可是他的心爱之物。
“After seeing apartments all day, you get sort of slap-happy,” he said. “I was kind of in love with that because of the high floor and the views, but then I got real.”
“看了一整天房，我变得有点大大咧咧，”他说，“当时我迷上了那套公寓，因为它的楼层很高，景色也很美。但很快我就回到了现实中。”
Farther north, he liked the location of One Columbus Place, near Time Warner Center and the Upper West Side, where a two-bedroom was for rent for $4,100 a month. But the interior seemed ordinary, and didn’t compare with what he had already seen.
在更往北的地方，他喜欢上了One Columbus Place大楼的位置，它靠近时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)和上西区(Upper West Side)，楼里有一套两居室的租金为每月4100美元（约合人民币25102.66元），但室内装修显得很一般，没有他之前看过的那些公寓好。
Mr. Tracy was curious about Murray Hill, not far from his old neighborhood. “There is not a lot of doorman rental stock in the area,” Mr. Silverstein said, “and what is available is quite expensive.”
特雷西想了解一下茉莉山(Murray Hill)的情况，那里距他之前住的街区不远。“那个地区有门卫的出租式公寓楼并不多，”西尔弗斯坦说，“满足条件的公寓，租金又相当贵。”
Buildings there seemed comparatively old and “kind of shabby,” Mr. Tracy said. At a pretty prewar building on Madison Avenue near 30th Street, a two-bedroom that had been converted to a three-bedroom by a wall in the living room cost $4,895 a month. The views were of brick walls.
那里的建筑物似乎比较老旧，“而且有点寒酸”，特雷西说。在麦迪逊大街靠近第30街的地方有一栋漂亮的战前建筑，楼里有一套原本是两居室的公寓，起居室里加了一道墙，被改成了三居室。它的租金是每月4895美元（约合人民币29970.13元），窗外的景色就是砖墙。
The two-bedroom at River Place was clearly the best option. “The views were a totally unexpected thing to get for that price,” he said.
河流广场的那套两居室显然仍是最佳选择。“以它的价格来说，简直想不到窗外能有那么好的景色。”特雷西说。
He and his stuff moved in this past spring. His building, he said, “has all these amenities I will probably never use, like the gym and pool and tennis courts, which is great, but I am not very sportif.”
今年春天，特雷西连人带东西搬了过去。他说，那栋大楼里有“一些我可能永远都不会使用的休闲设施，比如健身房、游泳池和网球场，这都很好，但我不是个运动型的人。”
He has a view of assorted Hudson River piers including No. 86, home of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum, in one direction, and the Michael J. Quill Bus Depot (with dozens of buses neatly parked on the roof) in another.
朝向这套公寓一侧的窗外看，可以看到哈德逊河的各种码头，其中86号码头是无畏号航空母舰博物馆(Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum)；再朝另一侧看，可以看到迈克尔·J·奎尔公交车站(Michael J. Quill Bus Depot)，以及整齐停在屋顶上的几十辆公交车。
“Once the sun hits the horizon, the light changes every minute,” he said. “It is totally fun to look out the windows. I am glad I made the decision to come out here.”
“太阳从地平线升起后，光线每分钟都会发生变化，”他说，“观看窗外的景色完全是一桩乐事。我很高兴自己做了搬到这里的决定。”
He is finding more of a neighborhood — and less inconvenience — than he expected from a location so far west. A Sunac Fancy Food market opened just recently.
他逐渐发现，在如此偏西的地方，这片区比他原本以为的更加成熟、完善，不方便的地方也比他料想的要少。一家苏纳奇精致食品(SUNAC fancy foods)市场最近刚刚开业。
He still heads back to his old neighborhood for meals and haircuts. He likes its merchants, whom he has known for years, “so I want to keep going there until I get too lazy,” he said.
他还是会回到之前的老社区吃饭和理发。他喜欢那里的商户，他跟他们已经相识多年，“所以我打算继续去那里，直到我实在懒得去为止。”他说。
Transportation from so far west is a bit inconvenient. The closest subway is at Eighth Avenue, and the blocks are long. But his building runs a shuttle across 42nd Street during rush hours, and taxicabs are always available. “I figure, with the amount of money I am saving,” he said, “I can take a few taxis.”
在如此偏西的地方，交通确实有点不便。最近的地铁站在第八大道，而且这里的街区也很长。但他住的大楼提供了一趟班车，在高峰时刻往返第42街，而且总是能叫到出租车。“我觉得，既然我省下许多钱，坐几次出租车也是可以的。”他说。