After finding a two-bedroom one-bath fixer-upper in the financial district last fall, Kelly and Brandon Michon went to work ripping out musty old carpets, dated kitchen appliances and damaged flooring; they scraped away layer upon layer of paint, wallpaper and plaster that had been slapped up over the years.
去年秋，凯利和布兰登·米琼夫妇(Kelly and Brandon Michon)在金融区找到了一套有待修缮的两室一卫住宅，之后便开始忙着撤掉发霉的旧地毯、搬走用旧的厨房电器、撬掉破损的地板；他们把墙上经年累月铺上的一层又一层油漆、壁纸和灰泥也刮得一干二净。
Now, with some hired professional help, the couple are finishing the second phase of an extensive renovation that will include everything from new electrical wiring and hardwood floors to a redesigned kitchen and bath.  The total cost: at least $45,000.
眼下，夫妇俩在他们雇来的专业人士帮助下，正在开展第二阶段的大规模装修工程，从重新布线、铺设硬木地板，到重新设计厨房和浴室，方方面面都包括在内。总花销至少要有45000美元（约合人民币27万元）。
None of this would be unusual, except that the Michons are renters, not buyers.
这些也都没什么稀奇，除了一样——米琼夫妇并不是房子的买主，而是租户。
Between appliance deliveries and diaper changes for their year-old son, Duke, Mrs. Michon has been chronicling the project at greenwichingeneral.blogspot.com. On the site, under an adorable family portrait, she uses a caption to pre-empt the reaction that most people have when they learn of their endeavor: “We are the nuts renovating our rental.”
米琼太太在验收家用电器和给一岁的儿子杜克(Duke)换尿布之余，还一直在博客greenwichingeneral.blogspot.com上记录自家装修项目的进展。网站上有一张温馨的全家福，在其下方，米琼太太注了一行字，一语道出很多人刚得知他们此番壮举时的反应：“我们就是装修租住房的疯子。” 
Most people won’t spend a dime to improve an apartment, because they know that someday they will move out. Nor are many landlords willing to allow tenants to do their own renovations. But as rents begin to descend from record highs, brokers say, renters are gaining leverage.
大多数人不会花一分钱来装修公寓，因为他们知道自己迟早要搬走。很多房东也不会允许房客擅自装修房子。不过，房产经纪人们说，随着房租从历史最高点回落，房客渐渐有了讨价还价的筹码。
“After years of escalating rents where there seemed to be no end in sight, now we finally felt a pause,” said Lyon Porter, a sales and leasing director of Town Residential, who has noticed more landlords offering concessions. “Before, it used to be absolutely not. Take it or leave it. I have a line out the door. Now there’s a real conversation and a negotiation.”
“好多年来，租房人数飙升的日子仿佛看不到尽头，而现在，我们总算能感觉到涨势暂缓下来了，”房地产服务公司Town Residential主管销售和租赁工作的莱昂·波特(Lyon Porter)说，他注意到，越来越多的房东开始做出让步，“以前，房东一点商量的余地也不给你。不租就拉倒。反正还有一大群人排队等着呢。而现在，房东和房客间有了真正意义上的对话和讨价还价。”
With their son beginning to toddle around, the Michons had outgrown their $2,500 rental studio in Battery Park City, but they couldn’t find anything larger in their price range. So when they spotted the listing for the bedraggled two-bedroom rental, they decided to go for it.
自从儿子开始蹒跚学步，米琼夫妇在巴特里公园城(Battery Park City)租的那套租金2500美元（约合人民币15151元）的单间公寓就显得局促起来。可是他们在这个价位上也找不到更大的房子了。于是，当他们看到一套脏乱不堪的两居室正在招租的广告后，便决定把它租下来。
After about two months of negotiation, the couple worked out a deal with the landlord for a five-year lease and a significant rent concession. They would not give specifics, but said that in the end, they will pay well below the $2,950 a month that the rental was listed for in its pre-renovated condition.
经过两个月左右的交涉，夫妇俩与房东达成了五年的租约，附带一大笔租金优惠。他们本不愿透露详情，不过最终透露，每个月的租金比当初2950美元（约合人民币17878元）的报价要低很多。
“We get a break on rent, but put a significant investment in the property,” said Mr. Michon, a financial analyst who works on Wall Street. The deal, he added, “allows us to get a home without the mortgage and without having to search hundreds of apartments for something that suits our taste.”
“我们省下了不少租金，但是也在这套房子上投了很多钱，”在华尔街做金融分析师的米琼先生说，通过这次交易，“我们不需要申请按揭、也不用从几百套公寓里搜寻称心的住所，就拥有了属于自己的家。”
The landlord also benefits.
房东也得到了实惠。
“The improvement is enormous,” said Jeffrey Kahan, of JSK Property Management, based in Manhattan, who manages the building, a federal rowhouse built at the turn of the 19th century. The renovation is more ambitious and of a higher quality than most landlords would normally invest in, he noted.
“条件得到了巨大改善，”大楼的管理者、曼哈顿物业管理公司JSK Property Management的杰弗里·卡汉(Jeffrey Kahan)说。这栋大楼始建于19世纪初，是一座联邦式联排别墅。大多数房东通常都不会砸这么多钱，做这么大规模、高质量的装修的。他评价道。
“And instead of us having to do that,” he said, “they did.”
“本该由我们做的事情，让他们代劳了。”他说。
Going forward, he added, the apartment will be able to command a higher price. “I think the owners went out on a limb for it, and eventually, I think, they will be rewarded.”
他又补充说，这套公寓要是以后投放到市场上，会卖出更高的价钱。“我觉得房主做了件特立独行的事情，他们最终会得到回报的。”
Most rental management companies allow minor changes, like painting a nursery purple or putting up bookshelves, with the understanding that the apartment is to be returned to its original condition before the end of the lease. But that’s usually as far as they will go.
多数租赁管理公司允许房客做一些小规模的改动，比如将育儿室漆成紫色啦、搭起书架啦等等，只要房客在租约到期前将公寓恢复原状即可。不过，改动通常也仅限于此了。
In fact, most leases contain a provision that forbids making any changes to an apartment without the landlord’s written consent. That is partly to protect against the possibility of building violations. If tenants want to build a wall to divide a room in two, for instance, they must meet certain requirements if the work is to remain within code. But the provision also helps avoid major customizations that wouldn’t appeal to the general tenant population.
事实上，大多数租约中都包含一个条款，禁止房客在未经房东书面许可的情况下，对公寓做出任何改动。这样做部分是为了杜绝建筑违规的可能性。比如若房客想造一堵墙，将房间一分为二，那就必须遵守特定的要求，确保施工符合规定。此外，订立这样的条款也有助于防止房客的大规模改动太过个性化，令大众租客群体难以接受。
“Your purple wall may not be my favorite shade of purple,” said Marina Higgins, the vice president and director of leasing at Argo Real Estate, a Manhattan management company. Even something that seems to be a significant upgrade may be the just opposite in the eye of the landlord.
“你采用的紫色墙漆，可能不是我喜欢的那种紫色，”曼哈顿物业管理公司Argo Real Estate的副总裁、主管租赁业务的玛丽娜·希金斯(Marina Higgins)说。就算某些装修看似是对居住条件的显著改善，在房东的眼里也可能恰恰相反。
“A very elaborate custom closet may be wonderful if you have an extensive shoe collection,” Ms. Higgins said. “It may be beautiful and it may have cost a lot of money, but we will be removing those fittings and doing something a little more user-friendly for a vast audience.”
“一座非常精巧的定制衣柜，对于收藏了很多鞋子的人来说或许是很好，”希金斯说，“它可能很好看，也很值钱，但我们还是会把这种家具搬走，做一点更实用、更大众化的设计。”
Still, in a city made up mostly of rentals, there are exceptions to every rule. Kurt Franz, 30, a project manager for a Brooklyn-based real estate developer, created a fifth bedroom in his previous apartment, a TriBeCa loft that he shared with four roommates. He also built a large floating dining table by bolting a large slab of wood to a pillar in the kitchen. When the lease was up and the group decided to move, the roommates asked the landlord if the floating table and the fifth bedroom needed to be removed. The answer was no, Mr. Franz said. Instead, the landlord refunded their deposit and increased the rent for the next tenants.
不过，在一座以出租房居多的城市里，每条规矩都有例外。库尔特·弗朗兹(Kurt Franz)今年30岁，是一名项目经理，供职于布鲁克林的一家房地产开发商。他之前住在翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的一套公寓里，与四位室友合租。他在公寓里新隔出了第五间卧室，还用螺栓将一大块厚木板固定在厨房的一根柱子上，做成了一张悬浮式大餐桌。当租约到期，房客们决定搬走，弗朗兹的室友问房东，是否要把悬浮大餐桌和第五间卧室拆除。据弗朗兹回忆，房东回答说不用，反而还退还了他们的押金，并给下一批房客涨了房租。
Mr. Franz got even more creative at his current abode, a fourth-floor walk-up in the East Village that he found with the help of his former roommate, David J. Bucci, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker AC Lawrence. The “shoe box” apartment measures about 360 square feet, said Mr. Franz, who moved in about a year and a half ago and pays $2,200 a month. To maximize space, he built storage benches and a Murphy bed. He extended the wall in the bedroom to create a big screen for a movie projector he hung above the bed. In the kitchen, he built an elevated dining banquette that doubles as a cot, and a table with a built-in flat-screen TV that pivots up when the cot is needed. Oh, and there is a small built-in keg.
弗朗兹对新住处的装修，甚至更富创意。新住处位于东村(East Village)一座无电梯公寓的四层。能找到这套房源，得益于他的前室友、Coldwell Banker AC Lawrence公司的房地产经纪人戴维·J·布奇(David J. Bucci)的帮助。这套“鞋盒式”公寓（也称袖珍型公寓——译注）的面积约360平方英尺（约合33平方米），弗朗兹说，他大约是在一年半前搬进来的，每月支付2200美元（约合人民币13332元）的房租。为将室内空间最大化，他打造了好几张储物凳和一张墨菲床（Murphy bed，又称隐壁床、翻板床。平时收进墙壁，睡觉时可将其翻下——译注）。他在自己床的上方悬挂了一台电影放映机，为了创造一块配套的大屏幕，他还扩展了卧室的墙壁。而在厨房里，他制作了一排加高的靠墙餐椅，兼作帆布床。他还搭起一张带有嵌入式平板电视机的桌子。需要用帆布床的时候，可以把桌子收起来。噢，对了，这里还有一只嵌入式小圆桶。
It doesn’t hurt that Mr. Franz, who works in renovations, has a history of furniture design and repair. He estimated that he spent only $1,500 on materials, but it took roughly eight months of working each weekend to complete the project. The custom-made space, he said, is worth the effort. “After a chaotic day,” he said, “when you come back to something that’s really tailored to you — I just enjoy it.”
弗朗兹做装修工作的优势在于，他有设计和修理家具的经验。他估计自己在材料上只花费了1500美元（约合人民币9090元）；但是他大概花了八个月的时间，利用每个周末干活，才完成这个项目。他说，能够拥有一处个性化的住所，这样的辛苦是值得的。“忙碌了一天，”他说，“回到一个真正为自己量身打造的港湾——我就是享受这样的感觉。”
His landlord has yet to learn about the modifications, but Mr. Franz does not expect any issues, especially since he was careful to make his changes and additions easy to remove. “Everything is built-in and customized to the space,” he said, “but in actuality there are probably 12 screws in the wall.”
他的房东对这次装修还不知情，不过弗朗兹认为不会有问题。一个格外重要的原因是，他已经小心确保房屋的改动和增建部分都很容易还原。“所有东西都采取了因地制宜的嵌入式设计，”他说，“但其实，墙里还打了大概12颗螺丝钉。”
For some landlords, timing is important. One, Alan Dixon, an investor from Australia with a growing portfolio of more than 530 rental properties in New York City and Hudson County in New Jersey, said he was willing to incorporate renovation suggestions if prospective tenants made them before he began a project. He said he had done so about 10 times in the past 18 months, in properties like a two-bedroom in Jersey City that he ended up renting for $1,300 a month, and a Brooklyn townhouse that he then rented for $12,000 a month.
对有些房东来说，时机很重要。比如阿兰·迪克森(Alan Dixon)。迪克森是来自澳大利亚的投资者，其投资组合包括纽约市和新泽西州哈德逊县(Hudson County) 的530多套出租物业，这一数量还在增长。他说，他愿意接受潜在房客的装修建议，前提是，他们提建议的时机是在他项目开工之前。他还说，过去18个月以来，他大概已经十次采取了这样的做法，涉及的房产包括泽西市(Jersey City)的一套两居室住宅、布鲁克林的一座联排别墅等等。前者最后以每月1300美元（约合人民币7878元）的价格租了出去，后者的房租则为每月12000美元（约合人民币72722元）。
Last year in Jersey City, after he acquired a four-story brick rowhouse that he planned to gut-renovate and rent for $7,690 a month, a couple with two small children expressed interest in renting the place. He asked them for a “wish list” of things they would like done to the property. As the renovation progressed, he incorporated their suggestions, among them revamping the garden-floor layout with an open kitchen, relocating the laundry room, and opening the garage to the backyard.
去年，他在泽西市购得一座四层楼的砖砌联排别墅后，打算将其彻底装修，以7690美元（约合人民币46603元）一个月的价格出租。有一对带着两个小孩的夫妇表示有意承租。他让夫妇俩列了一张“心愿清单”，把他们想做的装修方案都写上去。在施工过程中，他就把他们的建议融合了进去。这些建议包括重新规划花园层的布局，纳入一个开放式厨房；更改洗衣房的位置；以及将车库与后院打通。
Mr. Dixon says following the suggestions of his renters is good business. “If you’re already going to spend the money in renovation,” he said, “getting their input on what they’d like to see in the property is a positive move. You’re more likely to get a happy tenant, and after the initial two-year term, they’re likely to want to stay, accept a rental increase and see it more as a home.”
迪克森说，采纳房客的建议是一笔划算的买卖。“如果你已经打算在装修上花钱，”他说，“那么，采纳房客中意的方案是一项积极举措。你的房客很可能会更满意，最初的两年租约到期后，他们很可能愿意续租、接受房租上涨、将租住处更多地视为自己的家。”
At the high end, many renters have specific ideas about how they want to live and how much they are willing to spend to do so.
很多高端市场的房客对于自己想过什么样的生活、愿意为此花多少钱，都有着明确的想法。
After a divorce, with one child off to college and the other soon to leave home, Dee Dee Taylor Eustace, an architect and interior designer, decided to move to New York from Toronto to expand her business and indulge in “one magical year of living.” In June, in search of that “New York brownstone experience,” Ms. Taylor Eustace rented a $15,000-a-month Upper East Side duplex that had previously been used as an art gallery.
迪迪·泰勒·尤斯塔斯(Dee Dee Taylor Eustace)是一名建筑师和室内设计师。在离婚后，她的一个孩子去上大学，另一个很快就要自立门户。她决定从多伦多搬到纽约，将自己的事业发展壮大，全身心地过“一年精彩的生活”。6月里，为了寻找“纽约褐石建筑(brownstone)的居住体验”，泰勒·尤斯塔斯在上东城租了一套月租15000美元（约合人民币90903元）的复式公寓，公寓此前曾是一家艺术画廊。
“It was a working, running office with bookshelves, like, everywhere,” she said. “It had a showroom for art; the breakfast room was an office space with bookshelves and storage.”
“它就是一个正常运作的办公室，摆放着书架，和别处一样，”她说，“它有一间艺术品陈列室；早餐室是一个办公空间，带有书架和仓库。”
A closet was in such bad shape that if you looked up, she said, you could see through the cracks to the apartment upstairs.
有一个壁橱太破旧了，她说，透过上面的裂缝甚至可以看到楼上的公寓。
But with 11-foot ceilings and three fireplaces, the place had character, and Ms. Taylor Eustace had the know-how to transform it. It took at least $30,000 to bring the place up to her standards, she said.
不过，这个地方的天花板高达11英尺（约合3米），还有三座壁炉，因此自有其特色。况且，泰勒知道怎样改造它。她说，为了使这里符合她的居住标准，她至少花了30000美元（约合人民币181806元）。
“I know that’s ridiculous,” she said, but she pointed out that the renovations had cost less than the purchase of a comparable apartment, and that they enrich her life every day. “I have my bed sitting in the bay window, and I feel like I’m having that ‘Sex and the City’ moment. I look at all the brownstones and the snow falling. It’s magical.”
“我知道这样做有些荒唐，”她说，但她指出，装修花的钱没有买一套条件相当的公寓那么多，而且装修每天都在丰富她的生活。“我把自己的床设在了飘窗边，感觉就像置身在《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)的场景中一样。我可以看到周围的褐石建筑和飘落的雪花。这太奇妙了。”
“本文发表于纽约时报中文网（http://cn.nytimes.com），版权归纽约时报公司所有。任何单位及个人未经许可，不得擅自转载或翻译。订阅纽约时报中文网新闻电邮：http://nytcn.me/subscription/”