Two of the biggest tech trends this year were the growth of wireless speakers and streaming music services. Pure, a British electronics manufacturer, took the next logical step and combined the two.
无线扬声器和流媒体音乐服务的增长，是2013年的两大技术趋势。英国电子产品制造商Pure把这两者结合到了一起，也称得上是自然而然的改进。
The company’s music service, called Pure Connect, was made available in the United States this year, offering live radio and on-demand music from labels like Sony Music Entertainment, Universal Music Group and Warner Music Group. It also has relaxing sounds like a babbling brook, forest birds, ocean surf, rain and white noise. (For those who want to escape the calm of nature, the sounds of a busy city are available, too.) Pure Connect, accessible through an Internet browser or an Apple iOS or Android app, offers three subscription plans: the free Green option; the $5 Blue option, which offers unlimited streaming; and the $10 Violet option, which allows downloading of music files.
该公司的音乐服务名为Pure Connect，去年已在美国推出，它提供了电台直播和音乐点播服务，用户可以播放来自索尼音乐娱乐(Sony Music Entertainment)、环球唱片(Universal Music Group)和华纳音乐集团(Warner Music Group)等厂牌的音乐。它也提供帮助你放松的声音，比如小溪潺潺、森林鸟鸣、海浪声、雨声和白噪声。（如果你想摆脱大自然的宁静，也可以选择喧嚣都市的声音。）可以通过网页浏览器、苹果iOS或Android应用访问 Pure Connect，它提供了三种包月套餐：免费的“绿色套餐”；5美元（约合30元人民币）的“蓝色套餐”，可以播放不限量的流媒体音乐；10美元的“紫色套餐”，可以下载音乐文件。
But what sets Pure apart from its competition is that it manufactures its own wireless speakers, called Jongo. Several of them can be synchronized to create a multiroom speaker system, or two can be paired to create left and right stereo.
但是，Pure与众不同的一个优势在于，它自己也生产无线扬声器，名为Jongo。你可以把几台Jongo扬声器连接起来，组成覆盖多个房间的音响系统，或者把两个Jongo扬声器配对，形成左、右立体声系统。
Pure offers four Jongo sizes; I chose to test the entry-level Jongo T2, a compact speaker about the size of a football with 20 watts of sound that costs about $150. The speakers can be oriented vertically or horizontally with display stands and wall mounts, and separate grilles are available in bright colors like burnt orange, lime green and mango.
Pure有四种尺寸的Jongo扬声器，我选择了入门级的Jongo T2进行测试。这是一款小型扬声器，大小跟橄榄球差不多，功率为20瓦，售价约150美元。借助显示器支架和壁挂架，这款扬声器可以垂直或水平摆放，你也可以购买可以单独替换、色彩鲜艳的网布，有橙红色、柠檬绿和芒果黄可选。
A single speaker can be synced to a device via Bluetooth or a wired connection. For multiple speakers, a Wi-Fi network is needed. However, setting up the system on my home network was complicated and took a bit of troubleshooting. I had to reset the speaker and my router to get them to speak the same language.
单个扬声器可以通过蓝牙或线缆跟设备连接起来。要连接多个扬声器，就必须使用Wi-Fi网络了。但是，在我家的网络上设置这套系统时有些复杂，我花了一点时间来排除故障，最后只好把扬声器和路由器都重置，才把它们连接起来。
Once I got the Jongo T2 connected to my Wi-Fi network, I was able to stream music stored on my iPhone and songs from Pure Connect. The sound was decent and clear, although the bass was a little understated. But Jongo is not compatible with other music services through a Wi-Fi connection, so if you have a subscription to Pandora or Spotify, you’re out of luck.
把Jongo T2连接到我的Wi-Fi网络上后，我就可以用这个扬声器播放存在iPhone上的音乐和Pure Connect服务上的歌曲了。音色还不错，很清晰，不过低音略微不够厚重。但是通过Wi-Fi连接时，Jongo并不能兼容其他音乐服务，所以如果你使用的是Pandora或Spotify音乐服务，那就不行了。