TO appreciate the dumbing down of American politics, consider this: Conservative Republicans, indignant about abortion, are trying to destroy a government program that helps prevent 345,000 abortions a year.
想了解美国政治愚蠢到何种程度的人，请看一下这个例子：愤然反对堕胎的保守的共和党人，正试图摧毁一个每年帮助避免34.5万例堕胎的政府项目。
Inevitably in politics there are good ideas and bad ideas. But occasionally there are also moronic ideas — such as the House Republican proposal to kill America’s main family planning program, Title X.
在解决政治问题上有好主意、也有坏主意，这是不可避免的。但偶尔也会有愚蠢之极的主意，比如众议院共和党提出的、推翻“公共卫生服务法第十条”（简称Title X）的议案，这条法律是美国主要的计划生育项目的根据。
The upshot would be more pregnancies, more abortions, more AIDS, more sexually transmitted infections and more women dying of cervical and breast cancer. Ending the program would impoverish young mothers and impede the formation of stable two-parent families that conservatives rightly argue help overcome poverty.
推翻这条法律的结果将是更多的怀孕、更多的堕胎、更多的艾滋病、更多的性病，以及更多的妇女死于宫颈癌和乳腺癌。结束计划生育项目将让年轻的母亲陷入贫困，阻碍稳定双亲家庭的形成，保守派人士认为这种家庭有助于摆脱贫困，在这一点上他们完全正确。
It’s baffling that House Republicans are trying to eliminate a 45-year-old bipartisan initiative that is one of the country’s anti-poverty successes — and also perhaps America’s most successful anti-abortion initiative.
令人莫名其妙的是，众议院共和党人正在试图取消一个有45年历史、得到两党支持的项目，这个项目是美国扶贫计划的成就之一，而且可能也是美国最成功的反堕胎项目。
Title X began in a Republican administration, that of Richard Nixon. Today, 4,100 clinics supported by Title X provide family planning and also often test for H.I.V., cure sexually transmitted infections and screen for cervical and breast cancer.
公共卫生服务法第十条是理查德·尼克松的共和党政府颁布的。如今，有4100个诊所在第十条的支持下，为人们提供计划生育服务，也经常提供艾滋病毒的检查，还提供性病治疗，以及宫颈癌和乳腺癌的筛查。
I visited a Title X clinic in Baltimore. Republican members of the House, this is what you’re trying to destroy:
我在巴尔的摩走访了一家得到公共卫生服务法第十条支持的诊所。我要告诉众议院的共和党议员们，这就是你们想要摧毁的东西：
A tall 16-year-old girl, nicknamed China (she doesn’t know why; she’s not Chinese), is being treated for gonorrhea and chlamydia.
一位身材高挑、昵称叫做China（她自己也不知道为什么被这么称呼；她不是华裔）的16岁女孩，正在接受淋病和衣原体感染治疗。
“The last time you had sex, did you use a condom?” asks Courtney Pate, a nurse practitioner. China shakes her head.
“你上一次发生性关系的时候有使用安全套吗？”职业护理师科特尼·佩特(Courtney Pate)问道。China摇了摇头。
Pate hands her a bag of condoms and warns her that if she doesn’t use one every time, she risks serious health problems, “like not being able to have a baby when you want to.” Pate also grills her on whether she has told her sexual partners about the infections and whether they are getting treated.
佩特递了一袋避孕套给China，并提醒她，如果每次发生性行为时不使用避孕套，她的健康可能会出现严重问题。“比如说，想要孩子的时候却不能要了，”佩特说道。她还询问China是否告诉过性伴侣自己患有传染病，她的性伴侣们有没有得到治疗。
When Pate steps out for a moment, I ask China if her boyfriend will accept condoms. China looks doubtful and says, “Maybe.” Pate overhears and comes roaring back. “If he doesn’t wear a condom, he doesn’t get any sex,” Pate declares. “These are the rules: No condoms, no sex.”
趁着佩特走开，我问China她的男朋友是否愿意使用避孕套。China看起来不太确定，说“可能会”。听到这番话的佩特愤怒地赶回来：“如果他不愿意戴套，就别想发生性关系，”佩特郑重地说。“这些都是规矩，没有套，就没有性。”
China tells me she doesn’t have any other way of getting birth control or treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. Without this clinic, she says, she might well be pregnant and be spreading infections.
China告诉我说，她没有其他获得避孕和接受性传播疾病治疗的途径。如果没有这家诊所，自己很可能已经怀孕，在传播性病。
As China leaves, Pate cautions her again: “Somebody says, ‘Let’s have sex without a condom,’ you say, ‘No, I don’t want any needles in my butt! I don’t want to see that crazy lady in the clinic again!”
China离开时，佩特再一次告诫她说：”如果有人说‘我们别戴套吧’，那么你就要说‘不，我不想往屁股上扎针！我再也不想见到诊所里的那个疯女人！’”
I also met Doretta, who after a pelvic exam at the clinic received a diagnosis of possible cervical cancer. The good news is that it was found early and was treated, and she is expected to be fine.
我还遇到了多蕾塔(Doretta)，她在诊所进行了盆腔检查后，得到了可能患有宫颈癌的诊断。不过好消息是，发现的时间尚早，而且得到了治疗，所以她应该会没事。
Title X isn’t directly related to the furor over video footage showing Planned Parenthood staff members speaking cavalierly about fetal tissues; the Republican effort to eliminate Title X goes back much earlier. To those offended by the Planned Parenthood videos, if you’re infuriated by abortion, you should be channeling more money to Title X, not less.
“第十条”和计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)录像片段激起的愤怒并无直接关联。在该录像片段中，联合会员工漫不经心地谈论着胎儿组织。而共和党取缔“第十条”的努力在录像出现前早就已经开始了。我想对那些被惹恼的人说，如果你对堕胎感到愤怒，那么你就应该向“第十条”输送更多的钱，而不是减少。
Since 1980, inflation-adjusted spending on Title X family planning has fallen by two-thirds. Now the House proposes eliminating it altogether, while the Senate proposes a 10 percent cut.
自1980年以来，在扣除通货膨胀因素后，美国在“第十条”计划生育的支出已经减少了三分之二。如今美国众议院提出要一并取缔该项目，而参议院则建议再削减该项目10%的支出。
This in a country where half of all pregnancies are unintended, where 30 percent of American teenage girls become pregnant by age 19.
在这个半数怀孕是意外怀孕的国家，有30%的青少年女性在19岁之前就怀孕了。
The Guttmacher Institute, which studies reproductive health, calculates that Title X family planning centers prevent about one million unintended pregnancies a year, of which 345,000 would have ended in abortion. It says that every year Title X clinics avert some 53,000 cases of chlamydia and 8,800 cases of gonorrhea, and save the lives of 1,100 women who would otherwise die of cervical cancer.
从事生殖健康研究的古特马赫研究所(Guttmacher Institute)估计，“第十条”计划生育中心每年能预防大约100万例意外怀孕，这其中有34.5万例是会选择堕胎的。该研究所表示，“第十条”下的诊所每年能预防5.3万个衣原体感染病例，8800个淋病病例，挽救1100名女性的生命，如果没有这些诊所，这些女性将会死于宫颈癌。
In other words, Title X prevents an abortion about once every 90 seconds.
换句话说，“第十条”每90秒就能防止一例堕胎的发生。
Family planning investments also offer hedge fund-like returns, for a condom or IUD can avert more than $12,000 in average Medicaid spending on a childbirth. Guttmacher calculates that every $1 invested in public family planning services saves $7 in public expenditures. This is a program that saves money as well as lives.
计划生育投资还能提供与对冲基金类似的回报，例如，一个避孕套或者一个宫内避孕器，能够节省用于分娩的医疗补助支出，平均节省金额超过1.2万美元。据古特马赫研究所估计，向公共计划生育服务每投入一美元，就能够节省公共开支7美元。这一个既能够节省资金，又能够拯救生命的项目。
Opponents of Title X preen and moralize, even as their behavior has dreadfully immoral consequences. Conservatives emphasize that poverty is often linked to personal irresponsibility. Are youths like China irresponsible when they have sex without a condom? Sure they are! They’re kids. What’s harder to understand is the irresponsibility of Republican House members.
“第十条”的反对者则自我感觉良好并到处说教，而他们的行径却带来了极为不道德的后果。保守派人士强调，贫困通常是由个人的不负责任所造成的。像China这样的年轻人，不戴避孕套性交是不是不负责任？当然是不负责任！他们是孩子。共和党众议员不负责任的行径，才更是让人难以理解。
My question to them: Do you really want to increase the odds that kids like China will get pregnant, will spread disease, will become impoverished single mothers, will get mired in a cycle of poverty, will get abortions — or will die of breast or cervical cancer — and do you really think this is moral behavior to be proud of?
我要问他们的是：你们真的想见到更多像China这样的孩子怀孕，传播疾病，成为贫穷的单身母亲，深陷贫困的泥潭，选择堕胎，或者因患乳腺癌和宫颈癌而死去吗？你们真的认为这是该引以为豪、符合道德的行为吗？