A diary of a 1963 visit to Japan, long stored in a small box, inspired the new Brioni collection a half a century later. The designer Brendan Mullane found the diary, written by the brand’s co-founder Gaetano Savini in the archives and used it to connect the Italian fashion house to a Kyoto aesthetic.
米兰——一本被长期储存在小盒子里的日本旅行日记在半个世纪之后启发了布里奥尼(Brioni)的新系列。设计师布兰登·马兰(Brendan Mullane)在档案里找到了品牌创始人之一加埃塔诺·萨维尼(Gaetano Savini)的这本日记，用它把这个意大利服装公司与京都的审美联系了起来。
A Japanese artisan drew a crane that became a pattern on a jacket, while the traditional kimono silhouette inspired a fresh take on tailoring with a loosely belted jacket. Mr. Mullane used the deep-color palette of an Italian master of chiaroscuro, Caravaggio, added a screen projection of falling pink cherry blossoms — and there you have the new Brioni collection.
一位日本手工艺人画的鹤变成了上装图案，传统和服的剪裁启发了新的剪裁方式，造就了一件有宽松腰带的上衣。马兰采用的是意大利明暗对比大师卡拉瓦乔(Caravaggio)的深色调，背景投影是飘落的粉色樱花——这就是布里奥尼的新系列。
This sartorial work of art, shown in a space framed by Japanese panels, had a powerful conviction of luxury as something quiet and beautiful.
这些服装艺术品展示在一个用日式镶板围起来的空间里，带有强烈的信念：奢华是一种安静、美丽的东西。
A military battle against the weather — with motorbikes lined up in the studio — sums up the Belstaff approach. The designer Martin Cooper used traditional and modern techniques to make the collection weatherproof, from an enveloping motorcycle rain cape, a half-century old classic, to jeans greased until they appeared to be leather. Updates included a modular drop-out lining for the brand’s classic four-pocket jacket.
贝达弗(Belstaff)的设计主旨可以总结为“与天气战斗”——摩托车在工作室里一字排开。设计师马丁·库珀(Martin Cooper)用传统和现代技术让这个系列能应对各种天气情况，从有半个世纪历史的包裹严实的经典摩托车雨披，到涂上油脂、亮得像皮质的牛仔裤。产品升级包括把该品牌的经典四口袋夹克改造成口袋一块一块露在外面的款式。
Inspired by the 1965 International Six Days Trial, an off-road motorcycle event held that year on the Isle of Man, and not forgetting the motocross enthusiast Steve McQueen, Mr. Cooper said that his vision for Belstaff’s winter 2014 collection was “functional utility.”
受到1965年在曼岛举办的摩托车越野赛“国际六日考验赛”的启发，同时为了纪念摩托车越野爱好者史蒂夫·麦昆(Steve Mcqueen)，库珀说他对贝达弗2014秋冬系列的设想是“具有功能性和实用性”。
“Urban, dynamic, contemporary, futuristic” — those were just four words that Gaia Trussardi used to describe her mission as creative director for her family’s Trussardi brand.
“有都市气息、有活力、有现代感、有未来主义风格”——盖亚·楚萨迪(Gaia Trussardi)用这四个短语来描述她担任自己家族的楚萨迪(Trussardi)品牌设计总监的使命。
But she also included rustic, Scottish-looking knits among the sleek leather jackets and suits, once again founded on Milan’s fetish figure: the Neapolitan tailor.
不过她也在时髦的皮夹克和西服中间加入了朴素的苏格兰风格的针织衫，靠的仍是米兰的偶像级人物：那不勒斯裁缝。
Dean and Dan Caten of DSquared2 dressed the Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo this week when he accepted soccer’s big honor — FIFA’s world player of the year award. Yet you would not dangle anything gilded (like the soccer trophy) during the brand’s show Tuesday.
本周葡萄牙足球明星克里斯蒂亚诺·罗纳尔多(Cristiano Ronaldo)在接受足球大奖——世界足联年度世界足球先生时，穿的是D二次方(DSquared2)品牌迪恩和丹·卡顿(Dean and Dan Caten)设计的服装。但是你在参加该品牌周二举办的时装秀时肯定不敢炫耀任何镀金的东西（比如足球奖杯）。
The set was prison, filled with rebellious young guys behind bars or whiling away their time doing pushups — absurdly dressed for the part in elegant, streamlined sportswear.
布景是监狱，里面充满了叛逆的年轻人，他们站在栏杆后面或者做俯卧撑消磨时间——与他们的身份相悖的是，他们穿着优雅的流线形运动服。
Since they started their men’s wear line 20 years ago, the Caten twins have taken the brand from cheeky denim to upscale luxury separates. And in this show, the big shiny black leather totes alone looked like high-end goods, as did the shiny leather high tops.
卡顿双胞胎兄弟20年前开创了这个男装系列，把这个品牌从粗糙的牛仔布提升为高档、奢华的单品。在这场时装秀上，闪亮的黑色皮质大手提包和闪亮的皮质高帮鞋看起来像高档品。
This “Thug’s Life,” as the duo titled the show, was not so much witty as disconcerting. Were we to suppose that these classy clothes and accessories had been stolen during a break-in? Or were the guards always so exquisitely dressed?
这个二人组把这场时装秀命名为“暴徒的生活”。这场秀不是那么机智，更多的是令人不安。我们是要假设这些高档服装和配饰是入室抢劫偷来的吗？还是说保镖们总是穿得这么精致？
Many of DSquared2 shows have been a blast. But these bad boys, with rappers’ spitting angrily on the soundtrack, just seemed nasty.
D二次方的很多时装秀曾引起轰动。但是这些坏男孩加上背景音乐里说唱歌手的愤怒吐槽只是令人不快。