SMYRNA, Tenn. — The dairy farms that once draped the countryside here were paved over so the Japanese carmaker Nissan could build its first American assembly plant. Eighty miles to the south, another green pasture was replaced by a Nissan engine factory, and across Tennessee about 100 Nissan suppliers dot the landscape, making steel in Murfreesboro, air conditioning units in Lewisburg, transmission parts in Portland.
田纳西州士麦那——曾经布满乡野的乳牛场早已被夷为平地，取而代之的是日本汽车制造商日产公司(Nissan)在此建造的第一座美国组装厂。从这里向南八十英里，另一片绿色牧场变成一座日产汽车发动机厂。如今，大约100家日产的供应商遍布田纳西州各地，例如默夫里斯伯勒的制钢厂，刘易斯堡的空调单元制造厂，波特兰的传动部件厂等。
Three decades ago, none of this existed. The conventional wisdom at the time was simple: Japanese automakers would not build many cars anywhere but Japan, where supply chains were in place, costs were tightly controlled and the reputation for quality was unparalleled.
三十年前，这些工厂一个都不存在。当时人们普遍认为：离开了本土，日本汽车制造商就造不出多少汽车来，因为只有在日本国内才有到位的供应链，严格控制的成本，以及无与伦比的质量上的名声。
“They were very unfamiliar doing anything outside Japan,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, a Republican who was governor of Tennessee when Nissan opened its factory here in 1983. “They were tentative and awkward even discussing it.”
“他们对在日本以外做任何事情非常不熟悉，甚至对讨论这个问题都会感到犹豫和尴尬。”参议员拉马尔·亚历山大(Lamar Alexander)说道。他是一名共和党人，当日产公司1983年在田纳西开办第一家工厂时，他曾任该州州长。
Today, echoes of that conventional wisdom can be heard within the American technology industry. For years, high-tech executives have argued that the United States cannot compete in making the most popular electronic devices. Companies like Apple, Dell and Hewlett-Packard, which rely on huge Asian factories, assert that many types of manufacturing would be too costly and inefficient in America. Only overseas, they have said, can they find an abundance of educated midlevel engineers, low-wage workers and at-the-ready suppliers.
如今，那种“不能离开某地”的普遍信念却在美国技术产业中得到共鸣。多年来，高技术产业的主管们认为，美国在制造最流行的电子产品方面没有竞争力。像苹果(Apple)、戴尔(Dell)和惠普(Hewlett-Packard)这样的公司，都依赖在亚洲的巨型加工厂，并断言许多类型的制造业如果在美国本土生产，成本会过高而且低效。他们说，只有在海外，才能找到大量的受过教育的中层工程师、低薪的工人和准备就绪的供应商。
But the migration of Japanese auto manufacturing to the United States over the last 30 years offers a case study in how the unlikeliest of transformations can unfold. Despite the decline of American car companies, the United States today remains one of the top auto manufacturers and employers in the world. Japanese and other foreign companies account for more than 40 percent of cars built in the United States, employing about 95,000 people directly and hundreds of thousands more among parts suppliers.
但日本汽车制造业在过去30年里向美国的迁徙，为这种最不可能的转变的发生，提供了一个研究案例。虽然美国汽车公司近年来衰落了，但美国至今仍然是世界最大的汽车生产商和汽车业雇主所在地之一。其中，日本和其他外国公司的产量占美国制造的汽车总量的40%以上。这些外国公司直接雇用了大约9.5万人，另有数十万之多的人受雇于它们的零部件供应商。
The United States gained these jobs through a combination of public and Congressional pressure on Japan, “voluntary” quotas on car exports from Japan and incentives like tax breaks that encouraged Japanese automakers to build factories in America. Pressuring technology companies to move manufacturing here would pose different challenges. For one thing, Apple and many other technology giants are American, not foreign, and so are viewed differently by politicians and the public. But it is possible and the benefits might be worth it, some economists say.
美国能获得这些工作机会，主要靠公众和国会对日本施加压力、日本汽车出口的“自愿”配额、以及用减税来鼓励日本汽车制造商在美国建工厂等政策。而迫使技术企业将生产工厂移到美国将会面临不同的挑战。首先，苹果和许多其他技术产业巨头是美国企业，而不是外国公司，因此政客和公众会以不同的眼光看待它们。一些经济学家说，但这么做还是可能的，所带来的好处也许值得这么做。
“The U.S. has a long history of demanding that companies build here if they want to sell here, because it jump-starts industries,” said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a senior trade official in the Reagan administration who helped negotiate with Japan in the 1980s. The government could also encourage domestic production of technologies, including display manufacturing and advanced semiconductor fabrication, that would nurture new industries. “Instead, we let those jobs go to Asia, and then the supply chains follow, and then R&D follows, and soon it makes sense to build everything overseas,” he said. “If Apple or Congress wanted to make the valuable parts of the iPhone in America, it wouldn’t be hard.”
“美国要求公司如果想在美国出售产品就得在这里制造的历史悠久，因为这样才能加快启动各种产业。”克莱德·V·小普雷斯托维茨(Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr.)说。他是里根政府的一名高级贸易官员，曾在20世纪80年代与日本进行谈判。现在的美国政府也可以鼓励在国内生产技术产品，包括显示器和先进半导体，这样才能培育新的产业。“可情况却正相反，我们让这些工作岗位流失到亚洲，随之而去的是供应链，接下来是研究与开发，很快所有一切都要在海外造了。”他说，“如果苹果公司或国会想要在美国本土制造iPhone值钱的部件，这不会很难。”
One country has recently succeeded at forcing technology jobs to relocate. Last year, Brazilian politicians used subsidies and the threat of continued high tariffs on imports to persuade Foxconn — which makes smartphones and computers in Asia for dozens of technology companies — to start producing iPhones, iPads and other devices in a factory north of São Paulo. Today, the new plant has 1,000 workers, and could employ many more. Apple and Foxconn declined to comment about the specifics of their Brazilian manufacturing.
最近，有个国家在迫使技术工作岗位向其转移上获得成功。去年，巴西政治家们用补贴的诱惑和持续高进口关税的威胁，说服了富士康，在圣保罗以北一座工厂开始生产iPhone、iPad和其他设备。富士康在亚洲为几十家技术公司生产智能手机和计算机。如今，这座新工厂已有1000名员工，也许还能雇更多的人。苹果和富士康拒绝评论他们在巴西的制造厂的细节。
However, a developing country like Brazil can adopt trade policies that would be difficult for the United States to do. Taking a hard line to reduce imports of technology goods and encourage domestic manufacturing could violate international trade agreements and set off a trade confrontation. “We’re a long way from even talking about limits on imported iPhones or iPads,” said a former high-ranking Obama administration official who did not want to be named because he was not authorized to speak.
然而，像巴西这样的发展中国家可以采取的贸易政策，对美国来说则难以做到。为减少技术产品进口、鼓励国内制造业而采取强硬政策，可能会违反国际贸易协定，引起贸易冲突。“我们连讨论限制iPhone或iPad进口的问题都提不上。”一位奥巴马政府前高级官员这样说，他不愿透露姓名因为他没有被授权发言。
Protectionism is bad policy in today’s globalized world, many economists argue. Countries benefit most when they concentrate on what they do best, and trade barriers harm consumers by driving up prices and undermine a nation’s competitiveness by shielding industries from market forces that spur innovation. The United States needs to create new jobs, economists say, but it should not chase low-paid electronics assembly work that at some point may be replaced by robots. Instead, it should focus on higher-paying jobs.
许多经济学家认为，保护主义在如今全球化的世界是一项糟糕的政策。各国都做他们最擅长做的会使每个国家收益最大；而贸易壁垒会导致高价从而损害消费者利益，还会因为将企业屏蔽于刺激创新的市场力量之外而削弱整个国家的竞争力。经济学家们说，美国需要创造新的就业机会，但不应该去争取低工资的电子设备组装工作，因为这种工作将来会被机器人取代。相反，应当把眼光放在收入更高的工作岗位上。
“Closing our border is a 20th-century thought, and it will only weaken the economy over the long term,” said Andrew N. Liveris, president of Dow Chemical and co-chairman of the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership, a group of executives and academics convened by the White House who have studied ways to encourage domestic manufacturing.
“关闭我们的边境是20世纪的思想，从长远来看，这样做只会削弱我们的经济，”安德鲁·N·利韦里斯(Andrew N. Liveris)说。他是陶氏化学公司(Dow Chemical)的董事长以及“先进制造业伙伴关系”(Advanced Manufacturing Partnership)计划的联合主席，该计划由白宫召集，参与者包括一群高管和学者，负责研究鼓励国内制造业发展的方式。
The debate is not just economic, however. Increasingly, it is political. With high unemployment, the question of how to create jobs has taken a role in the presidential race between President Obama and Mitt Romney, and both have traded barbs on outsourcing by American companies.
然而，争论的不仅仅是经济，也越来越多地涉及政治。在高失业率之下，如何创造就业机会的问题，已经成为奥巴马总统和米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)总统竞选中的重点之一，双方在美国公司外包的问题上相互攻击。
Although the car and technology industries are different, and the eras are separated by 30 years, the resurgence of American auto manufacturing in the 1980s is an example of how one industry created tens of thousands of good jobs. Since its first pickup truck rolled off the line here on June 16, 1983, Nissan has produced more than seven million vehicles in the United States. It now employs 15,000 people in this country. It makes more than a half-million cars, trucks and S.U.V.’s a year, with the plant in Smyrna building six models, including the soon-to-be-produced, all-electric Nissan Leaf.
尽管汽车制造业和技术产业不同，时代又相距30年，但美国汽车制造业在20世纪80年代的复苏，为一个产业如何创造成千上万良好工作岗位提供了先例。自从1983年6月16日首辆敞蓬小货车从生产线上开下来到现在，日产已经在美国产生了超过7百万辆的汽车。该公司目前在美国雇有1.5万人，每年生产超过50万辆轿车、卡车和运动型多功能车(SUV)。仅士麦那的工厂就生产6种型号的车，包括即将投产的纯电动汽车日产聆风(Nissan Leaf)。
Other foreign carmakers settled in America — Honda, Toyota, Hyundai, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and, most recently, Volkswagen — after a failed attempt decades ago. And some of those factories have become among the best in the world. The Nissan engine plant in Decherd, Tenn., for instance, exports engines to Japan. “We have 14 companies now that produce light vehicles here, and that is enormous,” said Thomas Klier, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago. “There is no major market in the world that compares to it.”
其他一些外国汽车制造商也纷纷在美国落户：本田(Honda)、丰田(Toyota)、现代(Hyundai)、宝马(BMW)、梅塞德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)，以及几十年前尝试过一次但失败了的大众(Volkswagen)。这些工厂中有的已经成为世界上最好的。比如，田纳西州戴克德的日产发动机厂向日本本土出口引擎。“有14家公司目前在田纳西生产轻型车辆，这规模是巨大的，” 芝加哥联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank)一名高级经济学家托马斯·克利尔(Thomas Klier)说，“世界上没有其它任何主要市场能与之相比。”
Tennessee? 
田纳西？
“Where is Tennessee?”
“田纳西在哪儿？”
It was a blunt question, posed by Takashi Ishihara, president of Nissan, to Mr. Alexander, then the state’s governor.
日产公司董事长石原隆(Takashi Ishihara)向当时的州长亚历山大问了这个直率的问题。
Mr. Alexander, who had journeyed to Tokyo in 1979 to pitch Nissan on building a plant in his state, was ready with his answer: “I said, ‘It’s right in the middle.’ ” To help out, he displayed a satellite photograph of the United States at night, showing the bright lights shining on the East and West Coasts and the relative darkness of Tennessee.
亚历山大曾于1979年前往东京，向日产公司推销他的州，希望他们在那里建一个工厂。他对这个问题准备好了答案：“当时我说，‘它在正中间儿。’”为了更明确些，他拿出一张夜间美国的卫星照片，上面能看到东海岸和西海岸的明亮灯光，以及相对暗淡的田纳西州。
“We were the third-poorest state in the nation back then,” Mr. Alexander said. “President Carter had told all the U.S. governors to go to Japan and persuade the Japanese to make in the U.S. what they sell in the U.S.”
“那时我们是美国的第三穷州，”亚历山大说，“卡特总统要求所有的美国州长去日本，说服日本人搬到美国来生产那些他们卖给美国的东西。”
Mr. Alexander recalled that the Nissan executives were “incredibly anxious” about testing their homegrown production systems abroad. Could the Japanese car companies achieve the same quality using American workers?
亚历山大回忆说，当时，日产主管们对把国内发展起来的生产线拿到国外去测试感到“极度不安”。日本汽车公司能用美国工人实现同样高的质量么？
Despite the concerns, pressures were growing for Nissan to break out of its manufacturing cocoon in Japan, including currency fluctuations that made exporting more expensive. The final push came from American anger as imports grabbed one-fourth of the United States market.
尽管有些担忧，但日产面临着需要突破其日本制造业保护膜的压力越来越大，包括汇率波动造成的出口成本上升。最后的动力来自于美国人对占据了美国市场四分之一的进口商品的愤怒。
“Japanese automakers had achieved rapid growth by exporting to America,” said Hidetoshi Imazu, a senior manufacturing executive at Nissan in Tokyo who led the development of the plant here in its early years. “But it was clear that model would no longer work.”
“日本汽车制造业通过对美国出口得以快速增长，” 今津英敏(Hidetoshi Imazu)说道，“但很明显，这个模式不再行得通。”他是总部在东京的日产汽车制造部门的主管，曾领导了日产在美国建厂的早期发展。
In the fall of 1980, Congress held hearings to limit Japanese imports. With tensions running high, Nissan announced plans for the $300 million assembly plant in Smyrna. That gave the company a head start in circumventing looming restrictions. In May 1981, Japan agreed to limit exports to America to 1.68 million cars annually, a 7 percent reduction from a year earlier. In addition, the United States imposed a 25 percent tax on imported pickup trucks.
1980年秋，美国国会举行了限制日本进口的听证会。面对紧张的局势，日产宣布计划投资3亿美元在士麦那建立组装厂。这为公司规避迫在眉睫的贸易限制抢得了先机。1981年5月，日本同意将每年出口到美国的汽车限制在 168万辆，较上一年减少7%。此外，美国对进口的小型货车征收25%的关税。
“The pressure put on the Japanese was absolutely critical for them to agree to export restraints,” said Stephen D. Cohen, a professor emeritus of international studies at American University.
“对日本施加的压力，绝对是让他们同意出口限制的关键原因，”美国大学(American University)从事国际研究的退休教授斯蒂芬·D·科恩(Stephen D. Cohen)说。
Rural Tennessee may not have seemed a likely place to build a giant automotive factory, but its location was actually a selling point. It was far from Detroit and the United Auto Workers — and the Japanese wanted to work without what they saw as union interference.
虽然田纳西州的农村可能看起来不像建大型汽车厂的地方，但其位置也正是其卖点。这里远离底特律和全美汽车工人联合会，日本人想找个他们认为不受工会干涉的地方工作。
Nissan’s choice of Tennessee was not popular with everyone. On a 20-degree February morning in 1981, trade unionists jeered Mr. Alexander and Nissan executives as they turned the first shovelfuls of dirt for the factory, protesting nonunion construction crews. An airplane circled overhead, urging a boycott of Japanese vehicles.
日产对田纳西州的选择并不是所有的人都喜欢。1981年2月一个零下7度的早晨，在工会会员们对不属于工会的施工队的抗议声中，亚历山大和日产主管们为新工厂铲土奠基。同时有一架飞机在天上盘旋，呼吁抵制日本汽车。
Standing nearby was Marvin Runyon, a 37-year veteran of Ford who had been recruited as Nissan’s first American plant manager. In a later interview with The New York Times, Mr. Runyon was asked what his old colleagues in Detroit thought of his new job. “They wish me luck,” he said. “But not too much.”
为福特公司工作了37年、经验丰富的马文·鲁尼恩(Marvin Runyon)就站在附近，他被日产招聘来做美国工厂的第一任经理。在后来一次《纽约时报》的采访中，鲁尼恩被问及他在底特律的旧同事对他新工作的看法。他说，“他们祝我好运，但别太多。”
Success did not come overnight. Many Japanese were skeptical of their new colleagues. Americans, they had heard, were soft, lazy and incapable of mastering the precision manufacturing that had made Nissan great.
成功并非垂手可得。许多日本人对他们的新同事持怀疑态度。因为他们曾听说，美国人都很懒，不能吃苦，无法掌握那些使日产卓越的精密制造技术。
To train its new American engineers, Nissan flew workers to its Zama factory in eastern Japan. There the Nissan officials, assisted by English-speaking Japanese workers called “communication helpers,” imparted the intricacies of the company’s production techniques to the Americans.
为了训练美国的新工程师们，日产让他们飞往其位于日本东部座间市的工厂。在那里，在被称为“交流助手”的讲英语的日本工人协助下，日产官员们把公司制造技术的精髓传授给这些美国人。
Beginnings at Nissan 
日产工厂的开端
Early on, Nissan guarded against quality concerns by not relying on parts from American suppliers. Most components were either shipped from Japan or produced by Japanese companies that set up operations nearby. “We felt sourcing parts in the U.S. wouldn’t allow us to make cars in our own way,” said Mr. Imazu, the Nissan manufacturing executive.
刚开始时，日产为了防止出现质量问题，没有用美国供应商提供的零件。大多数组件或是由日本运来，或是由附近建立的日本公司提供。“我们当时觉得，在美国采购零部件，无法确保我们以自己的方式制造汽车。” 日产制造主管今津说。
By 1985, Nissan was confident enough about the quality that it added passenger cars to Smyrna’s assembly lines. Gradually, American parts makers were allowed to bid on supply contracts. Even that came amid arm-twisting by Congress, which passed a law in 1992 requiring auto makers to inform consumers of the percentage of parts in United States-made cars that came from North America, Asia or elsewhere.
到了1985年，日产对于士麦那的生产线质量有了足够的信心，开始在那里生产轿车。逐渐地，美国的零部件制造商也被允许参加供应合同投标，不过这也是通过国会施压才做到的。国会于1992年通过一项法律，要求各汽车制造商必须告知消费者，其在美国生产的汽车的部件来自北美、亚洲或世界其他地方的比例。
Calsonic Kansei of Tokyo opened its first plant in Tennessee in the mid-1980s, and now employs about 2,600 Americans making instrument panels, exhaust systems, and heating and cooling modules for Nissan. “The Japanese suppliers were encouraged to localize production,” said Matt Mulliniks, vice president for sales and marketing at Calsonic Kansei in Tennessee.
20世纪80年代东京的康奈可(Calsonic Kansei)公司在田纳西州开设了首家工厂，为日产制作仪表盘、排气系统、以及加热和冷却模块。目前该厂雇有大约2600名美国员工。“日本供应商曾被鼓励在美国本地生产。” 田纳西州康奈可销售和市场部副总裁马特·马利尼克斯(Matt Mulliniks)说。
Nissan’s early doubts are reflected in recent debates over whether American workers can compete with overseas laborers. Within the technology industry, workers in Asia are viewed as hungrier and more willing to tolerate harsh work schedules to achieve productivity. The numbingly repetitive jobs of assembling cellphones and tablet computers, executives say, would be scorned here; they worry that many Americans would not make the sacrifices that success demands, and want too much vacation time and predictable work schedules.
日产早期的怀疑态度反映在最近的美国工人能否与海外劳动力竞争的争论中。在技术产业内，亚洲工人们被视为更有工作欲望，并且更能够容忍实现高产量所需的严酷工作时间表。业界主管们认为，美国工人不屑于做那些组装手机和平板电脑的令人麻木的重复性工作。他们担心，许多美国人不会为了企业成功的需求而作出牺牲，并且期待太多的假期，以及固定的工作时间安排。
In the auto industry, the belief that American workers could not match Japanese workers has long since faded. “A big part of the reluctance of Japanese automakers to come to the U.S. was the belief that their manufacturing systems could only work with loyal Japanese employees,” said Dr. Cohen, the American University professor. “Everybody was surprised how quickly the systems were adopted here.”
在汽车行业，美国工人比不上日本工人的信念早已消失。“日本汽车制造商不愿意来美国的一个主要原因是，他们认为本土的制造系统只适合于忠诚的日本员工，”美国大学的教授科恩博士说，“因此，他们的系统被美国采纳的速度令所有的人吃惊。”
This year, Nissan held an internal competition to decide where to produce a new Infiniti-brand luxury sport utility vehicle. The plant in Smyrna was vying against one in Japan.
今年，日产举办了一个内部竞争，来决定在哪里投产一辆新型英菲尼迪牌的豪华运动型多功能车。士麦那的工厂与一家日本工厂是竞争对手。
The surprising winner: Smyrna.
结果令人惊讶——士麦那胜出。
“All my life I’ve heard about how great luxury brands like Lexus and BMW are,” said Richard Soloman, a 20-year veteran at the Smyrna plant. “Now we will be building a vehicle of that standard right here in Tennessee.”
“我一辈子常听人说奢侈品牌的车多么好，比如雷克萨斯(Lexus)和宝马，”士麦那厂20年工龄的老工人理查德·所罗门(Richard Soloman)说，“现在我们就将在田纳西制造那种高标准的汽车。”
The Japanese presence has rippled through the South. But no place has benefited to the extent of Tennessee, which counts more than 60,000 jobs related to automobile and parts production. The state’s jobless rate, which exceeded the national average by a significant margin in 1983 when Nissan opened its plant, is now lower — 8.1 percent in June versus 8.2 percent nationwide.
日本人的进驻已经扩散到美国南方各地，但没有一个地方像田纳西州那样受益，在那里，与汽车和零部件生产有关的工作岗位超过6万个。该州的失业率，在1983年日产开设工厂之前，曾大大高于全国平均水平，而如今低了，6月份该州的失业率是8.1%，在全国范围内则是8.2% 。
Brazil’s Breakthrough 
巴西的突破
Earlier this year, when Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, took the stage at a technology conference, he was asked if his company — which once made computers in America, but now locates most assembly in China and other countries — would ever build another product in the United States.
今年早些时候，当苹果公司的首席执行官蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)出现在一次技术会议的讲台上时，他被问及他的公司还会不会再在美国制造产品。苹果曾在美国制造计算机，但现在已经把大多数组装工作搬到中国或其他国家。
“I hope so,” Mr. Cook replied. “One day.”
库克答道，“我希望会，总有一天吧。”
That day came recently for Brazil.
最近，巴西已经迎来了那一天。
In Jundiaí, an hour’s drive from São Paulo, a strip of asphalt has recently been rechristened Avenida Steve Jobs, or Steve Jobs Avenue. Alongside is a factory where workers make iPhones and iPads. Brazil got these jobs through tactics the United States once used to persuade Nissan and other foreign carmakers to build plants in America: it cajoled Apple and Foxconn with a combination of financial incentives and import penalties.
在距离圣保罗一小时车程的容迪亚伊，一条沥青公路最近被改名为史蒂夫·乔布斯大道。路边是一座制造iPhone和iPad的工厂。美国曾经用来说服日产和其他外国汽车制造商在美国建厂的策略，被巴西借鉴并用到获得这些工作机会上，通过财政激励和进口惩罚相结合的方法说服了苹果和富士康 。
Like the United States, Brazil is a big market — the third largest for computers after China and the United States. It has long imposed tariffs on imported technology products to encourage domestic manufacturing. Those fees mean that smartphones and laptops often cost consumers more in Brazil, and that domestic manufacturers can be at a disadvantage if their products require imported parts.
和美国一样，巴西也是一个巨大的市场，其计算机市场仅次于中国和美国，居世界第三。它一直在通过对技术产品征收进口关税的方法鼓励国内制造业。这些关税意味着巴西的消费者需要花更多的钱来购买智能手机和笔记本电脑，而且如果国内制造商的产品需要进口零部件，关税也会使他们处于不利位置。
In April 2011, Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff, traveled to Asia with a pitch, much as Mr. Alexander did in 1979. The federal government would give Foxconn tax breaks, subsidized loans and special access through customs and lower tariffs for imported parts if it started assembling Apple products in Brazil, where Foxconn was already producing electronics for Dell, Sony and Hewlett-Packard.
2011年4月，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)前往亚洲做推销，就像亚历山大在1979年那样。如果富士康开始在巴西组装苹果产品的话，巴西联邦政府将给予它税收减免、补贴贷款、以及进口部件过海关的特殊通道和低关税等待遇。富士康已经在巴西为戴尔、索尼、和惠普生产电子产品。
Foxconn agreed. Within months, new Brazilian engineers were flying to China for training. By year’s end, Foxconn was making iPhones in Jundiaí, and it began making iPads there in early 2012, according to Evandro Oliveira Santos, director of the Jundiaí Metalworkers Union, whose members work at the plant. Stores now carry Apple products with the inscription “Fabricado no Brasil” — “Made in Brazil.”
富士康同意了。几个月后，新招募的巴西工程师们飞到中国受训。据容迪亚伊金属工人联盟(Jundiaí Metalworkers Union)主席埃万德罗·奥利韦拉·桑托斯(Evandro Oliveira Santos)称，那年底，富士康开始在容迪亚伊生产iPhone，并在2012年初开始生产iPad，该工会的成员就在那里工作。商店现在出售的苹果产品都刻着“Fabricado no Brasil”，即“巴西制造”的标记。
Apple products remain expensive; the latest iPad, for instance, costs about $760 in Brazil, compared with $499 in the United States. But because those devices are made in Brazil and lower tariffs are charged on parts used to assemble them, Foxconn and Apple are pocketing larger shares of the profits, analysts say, offsetting the increased costs of building outside China.
苹果产品在巴西依然卖得比较贵；例如最新的iPad，在巴西的售价约为760美元，而在美国的售价是499美元。但分析家们说，由于这些设备是在巴西制造的，用来组装它们的零部件的进口关税降低了，富士康和苹果都挣到了更多的利润。这些利润弥补了在中国以外地区产品制造成本的增加。
Foxconn declined to discuss specific customers, but said that the Brazilian government’s incentive programs had influenced its decisions and that the company expected to generate more Brazilian jobs and aid the government’s goal of furthering the country’s technology industries.
富士康拒绝讨论具体的客户，但表示巴西政府的鼓励措施对他们的决定有所影响，并称该公司还将为巴西带来更多的就业机会，同时将协助其政府促进国家技术产业发展的计划。
Indeed, Brazil hopes that compelling Foxconn to assemble iPhones and iPads domestically will help set off a technology explosion. Ms. Rousseff has said that Foxconn could invest $12 billion more in Brazil. And as an electronics supply chain develops within the country, as it has in China, the expectation is that other manufacturers will build factories.
的确，巴西希望，迫使富士康在其国内组装iPhone和iPad的做法，将有助于带来其技术产业突飞猛进的发展。罗塞夫总统表示，富士康可能会在巴西追加120亿美元的投资。随着国内电子设备供应链的发展，巴西期望其他制造商也将在该国建工厂，就像在中国发生的那样。
The government also hopes to use consumer electronics as a springboard for more advanced manufacturing. Targeting high-tech parts like computer displays and semiconductors could help Brazil reduce its trade deficit in these products and develop a robust homegrown industry, said Virgilio Almeida, information technology secretary at the Ministry of Science and Technology. “They are deemed high priority in the Brazilian industrial policy and are part of the Greater Brazil Plan,” he said. “Brazil has developed specific policies that grant incentives to foment research, development and industrial production.”
巴西政府还希望以消费电子产品为跳板，进入更先进的制造业。巴西科技部的信息技术部长维尔吉利奥·阿尔梅达(Virgilio Almeida)认为，瞄准高技术零部件的生产业，比如计算机显示屏和半导体，可以帮助巴西减少在这些产品上的贸易赤字，也有助于发展一个健康的本土产业。“这些被视为巴西工业政策中的优先产业，也是大巴西计划(Greater Brazil Plan)的一部分。”他说，“巴西已经形成具体的政策，用来激励科研、发展和工业生产。”
America’s Gap 
美国的差距
Throughout his term, Mr. Obama has regularly gathered advisers to discuss manufacturing, according to former high-ranking White House officials. As one meeting was breaking up, Mr. Obama casually tapped an aide’s iPhone to raise a point. Since the device is designed domestically, he said, it should be possible to make it in this country as well.
据几位白宫前高级官员称，奥巴马总统上任后，经常召集顾问讨论制造业问题。在一次会议快结束时，奥巴马随意地拿起一名助手的iPhone来引出一个话题。他说，既然这个设备是美国设计的，也应该能在美国生产它。
But it became clear at the meetings that there were differences of opinion over how best to bring manufacturing home, according to people familiar with the discussions who did not want to be named because the sessions were private. Everyone shared the same goal: establishing a level playing field and creating as many jobs in America as possible. But the debate centered, in part, on choosing among different tactics the American government has used in the past: penalties like tariffs against foreign countries that do not play by the rules or incentives like tax breaks to encourage more domestic manufacturing. On one side were officials like Ron Bloom, until earlier this year the president’s senior counselor for manufacturing policy, who favored more aggressive stances to counter policies used by Asian countries. He argued that the United States should fight China’s efforts to keep its currency weak. If China’s currency were stronger, American companies might find it costlier to make their goods in China and could have greater incentive to manufacture more in this country.
据参加并熟悉这些私人谈话的不愿透露姓名的人士称，很明显，在这些会上，对于怎样才能把制造业带回美国有不同的看法。所有人的目标都是一致的，即建立一个公平竞争环境，在美国创造尽可能多的工作机会。但争论的焦点部分集中在选择哪些美国政府过去曾用过的各种策略上：对违反国际贸易规则的国家征收惩罚性的关税，还是用减免税收的方法来鼓励更多的国内制造。持一方观点的官员包括今年早些时候卸任的、奥巴马总统的制造业政策高级顾问罗纳德·布鲁姆(Ron Bloom)。他主张以更强硬的态度应对亚洲国家所采用的政策。他认为，美国应该反击中国保持其货币疲软的努力。如果中国货币强硬起来，美国公司或许会发现，在中国制造产品的成本会更高，这样这些公司就会有更大的动力回本国生产。
Aligned on the other side at times were two powerful voices: Lawrence H. Summers, the top economic adviser to Mr. Obama until 2010, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. Along with many economists, Mr. Summers argued that an overly aggressive trade stance could hurt manufacturing — by, for instance, pushing up the price of imported steel used by carmakers — and over time, drive companies away.
而两个强有力的声音则加盟另一方的观点，他们是2010年卸任的奥巴马高级经济顾问劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)，以及财政部长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)。萨默斯和许多经济学家认为，过度强硬的贸易立场也许会损害制造业，比如会使得汽车制造商所需钢材的价格提高，而且从长远来看，会把公司吓跑。
Mr. Geithner thought diplomacy was more effective than confrontational tactics like labeling China a currency manipulator. “He told us, ‘It’s going to be a trade war if we go there,’ ” according to a person who attended the meetings. But this person countered that China would respond only to pressure. “What doesn’t work is the quiet stuff,” he said.
盖特纳认为外交手段比对抗性策略——比如给中国贴上汇率操纵国的标签——更为有效，“他告诉我们，‘如果我们那样做，将会是一场贸易战。’”据一位出席了会议的人士说。但这位人士反驳说，只有对中国施压才能使其做出反应。“那些克制的做法不会奏效。”他说道。
Mr. Summers, in a recent interview, declined to discuss his role at the White House. But speaking more broadly, he said that protectionist measures might incite new domestic manufacturing in the short run, but that it would come at a high price. “People will pay more for the product because it’s produced in a place that can’t make it at the lowest cost,” he said. “It burdens exporters because they pay more for their inputs. And it removes the spur of competition.”
萨默斯在最近的一次采访中，拒绝讨论他在白宫的角色。不过针对更广泛的话题他说，贸易保护主义措施，也许会在短期内刺激新的国内制造业，但这样做的代价也会非常大。“人们将为购买产品支出更多，因为产品不是在成本最低的地方生产出来的。”他说，“这也会增加出口商的负担，因为他们购买原材料的支出更多。同时这样做会消除竞争带来的刺激。”
A spokeswoman for Mr. Geithner said, “A multidimensional approach to tough yet smart engagement with China is the most effective way to level the playing field.” This strategy has had some success in persuading China to increase the value of its currency, she noted.
盖特纳的一名女发言人说，“以一种多方面的、既严厉又巧妙的方法应付中国的挑战，是实现公平竞争的最有效的方式。”她指出这个战略已经取得了一定的成效，比如说服中国提高人民币汇率。
One of the president’s economic advisers also said that, despite some differences, Mr. Obama’s team, including Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers, united to preserve manufacturing jobs in a critical area by bailing out the auto industry in the wake of the financial crisis.
一名总统的经济顾问说，尽管在某些观点上有差异，奥巴马的团队，包括盖特纳和萨默斯在内，都一致地支持救助受金融危机影响的汽车行业，从而保护了关键制造业的就业机会。
But the divisions within the White House have often frustrated those who wanted a sharper focus on manufacturing. “The critics would say we didn’t really fight for manufacturing policy,” said another former high-ranking official who took part in many of those meetings and who did not want to be named because the discussions were confidential. “They have a strong point.”
但是白宫内部的分歧，使那些希望更多地关注制造业的人常常感到沮丧。“批评者会说我们没有真正地为制造业政策而奋斗，”另一位参加过许多次这类会议的前高级官员这样说，他不愿透露姓名，因为这些讨论是保密的，“他们这么说很有道理。”
Now, with unemployment high and a growing debate over outsourcing of jobs, manufacturing is on the political agenda. In March, Gene B. Sperling, director of the White House’s National Economic Council, outlined initiatives — including tax breaks for building factories here, infrastructure investments and going after “unfair trade practices” — to reinvigorate manufacturing. In May, the Commerce Department announced tariffs on Chinese solar panels for selling below fair-market value. The White House has challenged China’s trade practices on tires and rare-earth metals, and has established an “interagency trade enforcement center” to combat unfair trade.
如今，面对高失业率以及不断高涨的针对输出就业机会的争论，制造业的问题已被纳入政治议程。今年3月，白宫的国家经济委员会主任吉恩·B·斯珀林介绍了一些重振制造业的措施，包括对在美国建工厂的税收减免政策，基础设施投资，以及应对“不公平贸易行为”等。今年5月，美国商务部宣布，对中国以低于市场公平价格出售的太阳能电池板增加关税。白宫对中国的轮胎和稀土金属贸易行为也提出了挑战，并成立了一个“跨部门贸易执法中心”(interagency trade enforcement center)来对抗不公平贸易。
Washington, however, has generally shied from addressing the protectionist measures of countries like China with countermeasures, as politicians once did against Japan.
然而，如今的美国政府往往避免直接应对诸如中国等的贸易保护措施，不像当年政治家们对付日本那样。
After the Senate passed legislation last year imposing tariffs on nations whose currency is undervalued — a salvo aimed at China — the bill went nowhere in the House of Representatives, and the White House indicated it did not like the proposal.
去年参议院通过了一项法规，对一些货币估值过低的国家征收惩罚性关税，这主要是针对中国的。但这项法规未能在众议院通过，白宫也表示不支持它。
However, champions of “in-sourcing” legislation — which takes away benefits from companies moving jobs abroad and provides incentives for those bringing jobs back — said the tenor of the debate was changing. “The public by and large has been betrayed by large American corporations that outsource. I think Congress is catching on to that,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio.
但是，“内包”立法的支持者们说，争论的要点正在改变。“内包”法案将取消对那些把工作机会移向海外的公司的优惠，同时给予那些把工作机会带回国内的公司奖励。 俄亥俄州民主党人， 参议员谢罗德·布朗(Sherrod Brown)说，“热衷于外包的美国大型跨国公司总的来说几经背叛了公众。我想，国会现在正在明白这个问题。”。
Still, he does not advocate tariffs or quotas. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, also favors tax breaks, rather than penalties. “I love my iPad,” she said. “And I want it made in America.”
然而，他并不支持增加关税或限制配额。密歇根州民主党人，参议员黛比·施塔贝诺(Debbie Stabenow)也支持减免税收，而不是惩罚措施。她说，“我喜爱我的iPad，我想让它在美国制造”。
One reason for the difference today: Unlike in the 1980s, when Japanese auto imports upset many voters, there has been little public outcry over imported cellphones and computers.
如今不同态度的原因之一是，20世纪80年代时，日本汽车的进口曾令很多选民不满。而目前公众没有强烈抗议进口的手机和计算机。
Back then, American workers were losing jobs as imports from Japanese companies cut into sales of the Big Three automakers.
那时日本汽车的进口曾导致美国三大汽车制造商销售量的下降，许多美国工人因此失业。