TOKYO — The Japanese politician who issued a landmark official apology to women forced to work in wartime brothels urged Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Tuesday to stand by Japan’s previous apologies for the country’s wartime agression, and not pull Japan too far to the nationalist right.
东京——一位向被迫在战时妓院工作的妇女做出史无前例的正式道歉的日本政治人物，敦促首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)维持日本以往对其战时侵略行为的道歉态度，不要让日本向着右翼民族主义的方向渐行渐远。
Yohei Kono, 78, a former deputy prime minister who retired from politics in 2009, said that when Mr. Abe commemorates the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, he should repeat past expressions of remorse over Japan’s wartime aggression and abuses. Mr. Abe’s statement, expected in the summer, will be closely watched by Japan’s neighbors for any sign that he is trying to whitewash his nation’s history.
现年78岁的前副首相河野洋平(Yohei Kono)于2009年退出政坛。他说，当安倍晋三纪念二战结束70周年时，应该重申以往对日本战争时期侵略和残暴行为的忏悔。安倍晋三预计将在今年夏天发表这次谈话，邻国将予以严密关注，看他是否有粉饰日本历史的迹象。
To avoid being accused of revisionism, Mr. Kono said in a rare public speech, Mr. Abe should use the same language of regret that past prime ministers used on the 50th and 60th anniversaries: Tomiichi Murayama in 1995 and Mr. Abe’s political mentor, Junichiro Koizumi, in 2005.
河野洋平在这次罕见的公开演讲中说，为了避免被指存在历史粉饰，安倍晋三应该使用前几任首相在二战50和60周年的忏悔表述：即村田富市(Tomiichi Murayama)1995年发表的谈话，以及安倍晋三的政治导师小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)在2005年的谈话。
With nationalist voices growing louder in recent years, there have been calls from within Mr. Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party to discard the old language. Many on the political right here say it reflects an overly negative assessment of Japan’s wartime actions, imposed by the victorious Allies after the war. Mr. Abe himself disputed some of the past apologies before he became prime minister in 2012.
随着民族主义的声音近些年来日益强烈，在安倍晋三领导的执政党自民党内部，已经出现了抛弃旧表述的呼吁。该党的许多右翼人士称，过去的措辞反映的是二战结束后，获胜的同盟国对日本战时行为的过于负面的评价。在2012年成为首相之前，安倍晋三就否定过一些以往的道歉。
Mr. Kono, a moderate who sought better ties with Asian nations, is perhaps best known for what has come to be called the Kono Statement, issued when he was chief cabinet secretary in 1993. The statement officially acknowledged that Korean and other women were forced to work in Japanese military brothels during the war. It has become a favorite target of the revisionist right, who claim that the women in the brothels were ordinary prostitutes who were not coerced.
温和派的河野洋平曾寻求改善与亚洲各国的关系。他最广为人知的举动，或许就是1993年担任内阁官房长官时发表的河野谈话(Kono Statement)。这份声明正式承认韩国等国家的妇女在战争中被迫在日本的军营妓院工作。河野谈话已成为右翼历史修正主义者最经常的攻击目标，后者称，这些妓院中的女性只是普通的妓女，没有受到胁迫。
Speaking in Nagoya on Tuesday, Mr. Kono warned Mr. Abe against embracing strongly ideological views that could potentially isolate Japan in a region where memories of its 20th-century militarism remain raw.
周二在名古屋发表演讲时，河野洋平提醒安倍晋三，不要表达过于强烈的意识形态观点，令日本在这个对其20世纪军国主义行为记忆犹新的地区陷入孤立。