If anything is eternal in real estate, it is the dance of desire that exists between chief executives and their architects.
如果说，在房地产行业里有什么事情是永恒的，那就是企业总裁及其建筑师之间的斗智斗勇了。
Corporate executives tend to obsess over the bottom line while longing to erect a brick and mortar legacy. Architects — particularly the visionary variety — see every job as a way to explore new design concepts and materials.
企业高管总是纠结于盈亏利润，但又想留下一些实实在在的建筑遗产。而建筑师——尤其是有远见卓识的那类，则将每份工作视为一次探索全新设计理念和材料的机会。
In 1943, Herbert F. Johnson Jr., the third-generation leader of S. C. Johnson, which has its headquarters here in Racine, tangled in just that way with Frank Lloyd Wright. While Wright’s design for the company’s executive offices, the Administration Building, had been rapturously received, Mr. Johnson grew wary of enlisting Wright for a second project, an adjacent research facility.
庄臣公司(S.C.Johnson)是总部设在威斯康星州的拉辛(Racine)的家庭清洁用品公司，小赫伯特·F·庄臣(Herbert F. Johnson Jr.)是其第三代传人。1943年，他正像前文所说的那样，和建筑师弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)进行了一番斗智斗勇。虽然赖特为庄臣行政大楼(Administration Building)做的设计获得了极佳反响，庄臣却不敢聘请他设计第二个项目，即紧邻行政大楼的研究设施。
“To be frank, Frank,” Mr. Johnson, who was known as Hib, wrote in a letter to Wright, “we simply will not consider a financial and construction nightmare like the office building.”
“老实说，弗兰克，”人称希伯(Hib)的庄臣在给赖特的一封信中写道，“像行政大楼那种设计方案，无论在经费上还是在施工上，都是一场噩梦，我们根本不会再考虑了。”
Wright, then 76 and in the midst of one of his periodic career resurgences, turned on the charm. “You aren’t losing your good hunches are you, Hib?” he responded. “The ones that made you what you are today?”
赖特当时虽已是76岁高龄，但正处于设计生涯的又一个巅峰期。收到庄臣的来信，他开始施展自己的人格魅力。“你的直觉应该还没有退化吧，希伯？”他回复道，“你所以能有今天的成就，直觉不是有很大功劳吗？”
Being Wright, he also could not resist a dig at the preliminary plans Mr. Johnson had included with his note.
赖特到底是赖特，除了施展个人魅力外，他还忍不住对庄臣随信附上的设计初稿做了一番评论。
“The plan your department made is like all plans made by departmental minds,” he said. “Just a little hole for the little cat and a big hole for the big cat.”
“你的部门搞出来的这份设计，根本没什么想象力，”他写道，“就是小人物配小房间，大人物配大房间罢了。”
Eventually — and not for the last time — the big cat succumbed to Wright’s entreaties, paving the way for the Research Tower, which would prove to be one of the architect’s most unusual structures.
最终（其实这还不是最后一次），这位“大人物”在赖特的软磨硬泡下松了口，为研究大楼(Research Tower)的建设铺平了道路。日后证明，这是赖特最杰出的作品之一。
This week, after 30-odd years of being shuttered, a small piece of the Research Tower will reopen as a museum that recreates down to the last test tube the way the building functioned during its heyday in the 1950s. The project is one of the final pieces of an eight-year, $30 million effort the company has undertaken to restore its landmark Wright campus.
研究大楼目前已经停用了30多年。本周（4月30日当周——译注），它的一小部分将作为博物馆重新向公众开放，力图全方位重现它在20世纪50年代的巅峰状态。该项目属于一个为期八年、耗资3000万美元（约合人民币2亿元）的工程，是该工程的收尾部分。公司的目的是要重建其地标式的赖特园区。
Herbert Fisk Johnson III, current chief executive of S. C. Johnson and grandson of Hib, who died in 1978, has overseen much of the restoration and hopes to build on the lure of the Wright buildings, which draw tourists to Racine weekend after weekend.
赫伯特·菲斯克·庄臣三世(Herbert Fisk Johnson III)是庄臣公司的现任首席执行官，也是逝世于1978年的希伯的孙子。菲斯克亲自监督了大部分修缮工作，以期保留赖特建筑原有的风貌。正是这些建筑吸引了源源不断的游客来到拉辛。
The correspondence between his grandfather and Wright, which Mr. Johnson said had not been published before, provides a glimpse into how difficult it could be for Wright to attain his vision. In an email interview, Mr. Johnson, known as Fisk, described their relationship as “love-hate.”
据庄臣说，他祖父与赖特的通信此前从未公诸于众过，从这次公布的信件中，我们可以看出，要将赖特的想象力付诸实践，有多么困难。在一次电子邮件采访中，庄臣——也就是菲斯克，在谈到他祖父与赖特的关系时，用了“爱恨交加”这个词。
“The Administration Building was so over budget — it was close to half the net worth of the entire company when it was done,” he said. “My grandfather appreciated the genius and the beauty of the creation, but was embarrassed by how much it cost.”
“建造行政大楼的花销远远超出预算——完工时的总开支接近公司净资产的一半，”他写道，“我祖父能够欣赏这项设计的天才之处和美感，可是巨大的开支也让他大跌眼镜。”
With its meticulous brickwork, custom furniture and fixtures, as well as the sky-lit Great Work Room that creates the uncanny sensation of being at the bottom of an enormous lily pond, the Administration Building — completed in 1939 — is generally regarded as one of Wright’s signal achievements. The total cost was just under $3 million (roughly $50 million today).
精细的砖砌工程、定制的家具及设施、有天窗照明的大工作室(Great Work Room)——这些设计营造出一种奇妙的氛围，让人感觉就像置身于巨型荷花池的池底一般。行政大楼竣工于1939年，被视为赖特的标志性作品之一。工程总造价接近300万美元（大致相当于今天的5000万美元，约合人民币3亿元）。
While more modest, the Research Tower, finished in 1950, includes seven two-level stories, each of which contains a floating mezzanine. The floors are cantilevered off a concrete core sunk 50 feet into the ground that Wright compared to a tree root. The core also contains a narrow staircase that, with a small circular elevator, is the only way to move between floors. Total square footage is about 20,000.
相比行政大楼，1950年完工的研究大楼没有那么奢华。它由七座双层小楼构成，每座小楼中有一个空中夹层。不同的楼层由一根打入地下50英尺、被赖特比作树根的混凝土核心桩连接起来。核心桩内还有一座狭窄的楼梯，和一台小型圆形电梯，这是各楼层之间唯一的通道。研究大楼的总面积达2万平方英尺（约合1858平方米）。
The ribbon windows consist of tiers of Pyrex glass tubes, essentially oversize versions of the ones used in laboratories like those in the Research Tower.
建筑的带状窗所用的材料，是多层耐热玻璃管，实质上就是楼内实验室里用的那种耐热玻璃管的超大版。
Brady Roberts, chief curator of the Milwaukee Art Museum, calls the tower “the closest thing to a built work of 20th-century utopian architecture that you will ever find.”
密尔沃基艺术博物馆(Milwaukee Art Museum)的总策展人布拉迪·罗伯茨(Brady Roberts)把这座大楼称为“你能找到的、最接近20世纪乌托邦建筑的作品”。
Brendan Gill, Wright’s biographer, remarked, “Like so many of Wright’s works, the Research Tower succeeds as an aesthetic object, but from the beginning presented an almost endless series of difficulties.”
赖特的传记作者布伦丹·吉尔(Brendan Gill)评论说，“和赖特的众多作品一样，研究大楼是一件成功的美学作品，但是它从一开始就要面对数不清的困难。”
That it did. The fixed and unshaded Pyrex tube windows made temperature control difficult in the summer. Wright also resisted installing sprinklers in a building where open-flame experiments were often underway, on the grounds that they were unsightly. The sprinklers eventually were installed.
事实的确如此。由于耐热玻璃管制成的窗户是固定的，而且毫无遮挡，一到夏天，室内的温度就会变得难以控制。虽然楼内经常要进行明火实验，但赖特依然拒绝安装洒水灭火器，理由是影响美观。不过洒水灭火器最终还是装上了。
Still, for the next 30 years, the Research Tower functioned as the R&D heart of S. C. Johnson, which was founded in 1886 and is the manufacturer of household products like Windex, Pledge and Raid.
尽管如此，在接下来的30年里，研究大楼一直是庄臣公司的研发中心。庄臣创立于1886年，该公司生产的家庭清洁用品包括Windex清洁剂、碧丽珠家具光亮剂(Pledge)、雷达杀虫剂(Raid)等。
Cary E. Manderfield, director of research and development for the company, remembers working in the tower just before it was taken out of service in the early 1980s.
加里·E·曼德菲尔德(Cary E. Manderfield)是庄臣公司的研发总监。研究大楼于20世纪80年代初停用之前，他曾在那里工作。他回忆了当时的光景。
“It was a great place to do research,” Mr. Manderfield said. “Just a few hops up or down the stairs and you could collaborate with a colleague, learn what you needed to learn to do an experiment or borrow a piece of lab equipment or a chemical. A lot of very good science came out of the tower.”
“那是个做研究的好地方，”曼德菲尔德回忆道，“你只需要上下楼梯，走几步路，就可以找同事合作，学习做实验的技巧，借点实验仪器或者化学试剂什么的。那里诞生了很多非常棒的科研成果。”
In 1982, the Research Tower was officially retired; it had not been repurposed because of concerns that upgrading to meet building code standards could have compromised its architectural integrity.
1982年，研究大楼正式停用。之所以一直没有重新启用，是因为公司担心，一旦按照建筑规范对它进行升级改造，可能会破坏它的建筑完整性。
“The tower is an incredible jewel and I wanted to share it with the world,” Mr. Johnson said.
“这座大楼是件不可思议的珍宝，我希望与全世界一起分享它。”庄臣说。
Almost from the beginning, the 35-acre S. C. Johnson campus has functioned as a part-time tourist attraction for Racine, a 19th-century industrial city about 75 miles north of Chicago on Lake Michigan. Besides the Wright structures, the campus includes two other architectural gems.
几乎从一开始，占地35英亩（约合14.2公顷）的庄臣公司园区就是拉辛的一个旅游景点。拉辛在19世纪时是座工业城市，坐落在密歇根湖畔，地处芝加哥以北75英里（约合121公里）。除了赖特设计的建筑外，园区内还有另外两座建筑珍品。
The first is the Golden Rondelle Theater, which was the S. C. Johnson Pavilion at the 1964 World’s Fair in New York. After the fair, it was disassembled and moved here. Supposedly modeled on a Wright church, it functions today as an auditorium and visitor center.
Golden Rondelle剧院就是其中之一，它曾是庄臣公司在1964年纽约世界博览会上的展馆。世博会结束后，它被拆解运回并重新组装。其建筑蓝本据说是赖特设计的一座教堂。如今，它的用途是一座礼堂和游客服务中心。
Then, four years ago, the company commissioned Norman Foster, winner of the Pritzker Architecture Prize, to design Fortaleza Hall, which commemorates an expedition Hib Johnson made to the jungles of Brazil in the 1930s in search of a new source for the company’s main product, floor wax.
四年前，庄臣公司聘请普利兹克建筑奖(Pritzker Architecture Prize)得主诺曼·福斯特(Norman Foster)设计了福塔雷萨大厅(Fortaleza Hall)，以纪念20世纪30年代希伯·庄臣前往巴西丛林的考察活动。考察的目的，是为地板蜡这个公司主打产品寻找新的原料源。
Fortaleza Hall also includes galleries where the company stages exhibitions about Wright’s career. The current show, “At Home With Frank Lloyd Wright,” examines three of his residences — the two Taliesin compounds, in Spring Green, Wis., and Scottsdale, Ariz., and a suite at the Plaza Hotel in New York that he occupied and modified while designing the Guggenheim Museum.
福塔雷萨大厅还包括几间画廊，庄臣公司在这里举办有关赖特职业生涯的展览。当前的展览主题为“弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特之家”(At Home With Frank Lloyd Wright)，该展览审视的是赖特的三处住宅，它们是：两座分别位于威斯康星州春绿村(Spring Green)和亚利桑那州斯科茨代尔(Scottsdale)、名为“塔里耶森”(Taliesin)的建筑；以及纽约广场饭店(Plaza Hotel)的一个套间。赖特在设计古根海姆博物馆(Guggenheim Museum)时曾入住并改建过这个套间。
The exhibitions are co-curated by Mr. Roberts of the Milwaukee Art Museum and Bruce Brooks Pfeiffer, chief archivist of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation in Scottsdale.
这些展览，是密尔沃基艺术博物馆的罗伯茨联同弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特基金会的首席档案管理员布鲁斯·布鲁克斯·菲佛(Bruce Brooks Pfeiffer)共同策划的。弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特基金会位于斯科茨代尔(Scottsdale)。
S. C. Johnson offers free tours of its campus on summer Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays and receives about 9,000 visitors a year. Mr. Johnson hopes to triple that number with the addition of the Research Tower and regular exhibitions.
庄臣公司每年夏天的周五到周日都会免费开放，每年接待游客9000人次。庄臣希望通过修缮研究大楼、定期举办展览，使游客的数量增加两倍。
Half a century after Wright’s death in 1959, the phenomenon of Frank Lloyd Wright tourism continues to expand in the Midwest. One of the newer attractions is the 19-story Price Tower in Bartlesville, Okla., which was completed in 1956. That and the Research Tower are Wright’s only extant high-rise buildings.
赖特逝世于1959年。如今，半个世纪过去了，关于赖特的“朝圣”之旅，正在美国中西部持续铺开。一个较新的旅游景点是19层的普莱斯大楼(Price Tower)，位于俄克拉荷马的巴特尔斯维尔(Bartlesville)，竣工于1956年。普莱斯大楼和研究大楼是赖特仅存的两座高层建筑作品。
The Price Tower was built for the H. C. Price Company, an oil and gas pipeline construction firm. It was sold to Phillips Petroleum in 1981 and, in 2000, was donated to a nonprofit organization that has transformed it into the Price Tower Arts Center. Restored in 2004, it contains a hotel, restaurant, galleries and office space, and attracts 30,000 visitors a year.
普莱斯大楼是为H.C.Price石油与天然气管道建筑公司建的。1981年，普莱斯大楼被菲利普斯石油公司(Phillips Petroleum)收购，又于2000年被捐赠给一家非盈利机构，随后改建为普莱斯大楼艺术中心(Price Tower Arts Center)。经过2004年的翻修，楼内现有一家宾馆，还有餐厅、画廊和办公区，每年吸引游客3万人次。
“We are the most iconic building in town,” said Timothy L. Boruff, executive director of the center.
艺术中心的执行董事蒂莫西·L·博鲁夫(Timothy L. Boruff)说：“普莱斯大楼是城里最具标志性的建筑物。”
Though Wright was born in Wisconsin, the epicenter of Wright tourism is undoubtedly Oak Park, Ill., where he lived and worked during the early years of his career. It is the home of more than two dozen Wright buildings and numerous others by his Prairie School disciples and acolytes.
尽管赖特出生于威斯康星州(Wisconsin)，但是朝圣者云集的中心地带，无疑是伊利诺伊州的橡树园(Oak Park)。赖特在职业生涯的早期曾在那里生活和工作。那里有20多座建筑出自他的手笔，他在“草原学派”(Prairie School)的弟子和信徒，也在当地留下了大量建筑作品。
Back in Racine, Mr. Johnson is contemplating his own legacy. Over the years, he says, various financial executives have contended that the company would be better off moving to more modern quarters.
回到拉辛的话题。庄臣正寻思着留下属于自己的建筑遗产。他说，多年来，很多财务管理人员都劝他把公司搬到更加现代的地方，他们认为这会使公司的经营状况得到改善。
Mr. Johnson is not buying it. “My grandfather made incredibly bold decisions, one of which was to build these buildings in spite of the cost,” he said. “For me, they are a visual reminder of those decisions and of the importance of being bold when leading this enterprise. We are committed to keeping Wright’s vision intact.”
但庄臣并不买账。“我爷爷老是做一些特别大胆的决定，比如，他会不计成本地打造这些建筑作品，”他说，“对我来说，这些建筑物会让我想起爷爷所做的决定，提醒我要做一个有魄力的企业领导者。我们有责任原样保护赖特的视觉遗产。”