There were more cultural questions than wardrobe solutions at the end of the autumn 2013 haute couture season — even if Valentino, in a beautiful and thoughtful collection, actually managed to show covetable coats and desirable daywear.
在2013夏季高级定制时装周结尾的时候，人们更多想到的是文化问题，而不是能给自己的衣橱添置几件衣服——尽管华伦天奴(Valentino)的时装秀美丽又贴心，其中真有一些让你渴望得到的外衣和白天穿的衣服。
Elsewhere, designers are struggling to decide whether couture is about high fashion or high concept, taking style into the realm of art. The Viktor & Rolf collection, with its sculptural shapes and Zen spirit, also was beautiful in its ascetic way, going deeply into the conceptual realm, with no idea that could be defined as seasonal clothing.
其他品牌的设计师们在艰难地决定，定制服装到底应该是高级服装还是高级理念，他们把时尚带到了艺术领域。维果罗夫(Viktor & Rolf)的服装系列带有雕塑效果和禅宗精神，这是一种清心寡欲之美，深入到了理念领域，完全不注重服装的季节性。
“We wanted to be as conceptual as possible to celebrate our 20 years” in design, said Rolf Snoeren and Viktor Horsting, their comments flowing together after a long meditation on a set with a few stones whose shapes were echoed in the black clothing. It was as far as any designer could go from fast fashion.
罗尔夫·斯诺伦(Rolf Snoeren)和维克托·霍斯廷(Viktor Horsting)说，“为了庆祝该品牌创立20周年，我们想尽可能地（在设计中）表现一种理念。”在秀台思考了很长时间后，他们说了这句话。秀台的布景中有几块石头，其形状与黑色衣服上的设计相呼应。他们的作品是对快速时尚最大程度的远离。
The wonder of Valentino is that it is on the cusp of “new” couture, yet the collections resonate with the past. Maria Grazia Chiuri and Pierpaolo Piccioli went way back to the 16th century for their “mood board,” which they printed in the program: deeply religious imagery with period decorative objects like spiky coral brought to life on the runway.
华伦天奴让人惊奇的地方在于，它位于“新派”定制服装的最前沿，但是它的服装系列却在回应过去。走秀说明上写着，玛利亚·格拉齐亚·基乌里(Maria Grazia Chiuri)和皮埃尔保罗·皮齐奥利(Pierpaolo Piccioli)为了寻找灵感，一直回溯到了16世纪：秀台上的模特们看起来如同圣像雕塑，衣服上局部装饰着图案，比如多枝的珊瑚。
“We just took the spirit of the Cabinet de curiosités and put it together differently,” said Mr. Piccioli, while his fashion partner said that they wanted to show daywear. Their thoughts were backed up by a set that included such cabinets with rare and strange collectors’ objects inside.
“我们提取了古董柜的精髓，用不同的方式把它整合了起来，”皮齐奥利说。而他的设计搭档说他们想展示白天穿的衣服。他们的想法在秀台布景中得到了体现——布景中有一些这样的柜子，里面装着罕见奇特的藏品。
But for all its antique spirit and its hand workmanship from Valentino’s fabled Rome ateliers, these were not costumes. A coat — and that outerwear looked younger and snappier than the narrow skirt underneath — was patterned with lace, infiltrated in cashmere. Or there might be a grand brocade that was not, in fact, that heavy, textured, historic cloth but instead made from woven raffia.
尽管它们是复古风格的，而且是在华伦天奴位于罗马的传奇工作室里手工制成，但是它们不是戏服。有一件外衣用蕾丝勾勒出花纹，还织入了羊绒。这件外衣比其下那件修长的半身裙看起来要年轻、时髦得多。还有一个大幅的织锦实际上不是用沉重的、有织纹的、历史悠久的棉布做成的，而是用梭织拉菲亚木纤维做成的。
Illumination, as in a medieval manuscript, seemed to be behind discreet, long-sleeved dresses in gray wool or plaid, lighted down the front with gilded embroidery. This sober elegance, a counterpoint to the flash-the-flesh of the last few decades, is becoming the leitmotif of this design duo — even for their gowns, whose handwork is listed in the program according to hours of embroidery (which can be as many as 800).
就像中世纪的手稿中说的那样，光明似乎隐藏在那些朴素的长袖连衣裙背后，这些连衣裙是用灰色羊毛或格子花呢做成的，正面用镀金的刺绣提亮。这种朴素的优雅与最近几十年暴露肌肤的潮流截然相反，正成为这个设计二人组的主要风格——甚至成了他们晚装的风格。走秀说明上列出了每件晚装刺绣所花费的时间（有的甚至花费了800个小时）。
But nothing in these images of nymphs in grottos or so-called vanity mirrors was weighed down by history. They were clothes to make the young Euro-aristocracy swoon with joy and mark desirable purchases on their programs. Valentino Garavani himself — front row with Princess Madeleine of Sweden, whose wedding gown he designed this year — should be both delighted and relieved to see his spirit moved forward with such delicacy.
但是这些石窟中或者所谓的化妆镜中的仙女形象并没有被历史压垮。这些衣服让年轻的欧洲贵族们狂喜，在他们的节目单上标出了自己心仪的服装。华伦天奴·格拉瓦尼(Valentino Garavani)本人看到自己的精神能够如此精致地传承下去，一定感到愉快而欣慰。他坐在前排，旁边是瑞典公主玛德琳(Madeleine)，她今年的结婚礼服是他设计的。
It is over a decade since there was a Viktor & Rolf show during the couture season. Yet the Dutch duo made their reputation with extraordinary and complex shows, like Russia dolls peeling off layers of clothing or cowbells tinkling in an unlighted room.
维果罗夫已经十多年没在定制时装季推出时装秀了。但是这个荷兰二人组曾以独特而复杂的时装秀赢得了声誉，比如脱掉一层层衣服的俄罗斯玩偶，或者在昏暗房间里叮叮做响的牛铃。
The 20-year celebration — which will also be marked by the opening of a new Paris store — was a peaceful presentation of clothes that seemed simple in their dark, strangely shaped silhouettes. But up close, the insertion of pieces of fabric, shaped like stones from a classic Japanese garden, were a work of complex fashion architecture. Hence, when the graceful models took up positions on the floor, the ultra-modern techno silk stretched and draped, sometimes to cover completely body and limbs.
该品牌在巴黎的一家新店将于20周年纪念日开业。这场纪念20周年的时装秀平静地展示了一些看起来很简单的衣服，这些衣服都是黑色的，裁剪十分特别。但是从近处看，你会注意到其中嵌入了一些面料，做出来的形状很像古典日式园林中的石头，服装样式十分复杂。所以，当优雅的模特们在地板上摆好姿势后，用超现代技术做出来的丝绸舒展开，垂落下来，有的能完全遮住模特的身体和四肢。
It was intriguing to see the designers create an art concept that included themselves, both arranging the clothes and making meditative gestures.
设计师们创立了一个艺术概念，这其中包括他们自己——他们不仅设计了那些衣服，还做出了沉思的动作。这些看起来十分有趣。
And the show raised a question: Would it not be a great idea for the Paris couture organization to invite a few thoughtful and forward-looking designers — Rei Kawakubo of Comme des Garçons comes immediately to mind — to suggest how the historic craft can be moved forward in the 21st-century universe?
这场时装秀提出了一个问题：假如巴黎的高级定制服装组织能邀请几位有思想、有远见的设计师（我马上想到了Comme des Garçons品牌的设计师川久保玲）来展现历史悠久的手艺能在21世纪向前推进，是不是个好主意呢？
During the finale at Vionnet, when the models lined up on a grand staircase, their dresses flowed over their bodies in drapes and pleats and in shimmering shades of green, red and blue. That made a pleasing tableau for the fashion house, where the original designer invented the bias cut, with its ripple of fabric at a graceful angle across the form.
在薇欧奈(Vionnet)走秀的尾声，当模特们在巨大的楼梯上站成一列时，她们的连衣裙从身上垂落。这些连衣裙颜色多样，有绿色、红色和蓝色等，再加上连衣裙上的各式褶皱，构成了一副怡人的画面。这家服装公司最初的设计师发明了斜裁法，能让面料的纹路以优雅的角度穿过衣服。
Today it is Goga Ashkenazi, as both chief executive and designer, who is trying to restore the Vionnet style and spirit. The show was delayed a day and had some unfinished details — Ms. Ashkenazi described a complicated tale about metallic embroideries wrecking the fabrics on their way from Italy. But haute couture is a craft as well as an art. And maybe, for all her enthusiasm, this designer/owner should set up a studio of “little hands” to make the Vionnet clothes as beautiful in execution as in the original thought.
现在该品牌的首席执行官和设计师是戈加·阿什肯纳兹(Goga Ashkenazi)，她在努力重振薇欧奈的风格和精髓。这场时装秀推迟了一天，还有一些细节没有完成——阿什肯纳兹说这是一个复杂的故事，说这些衣服在从意大利运来的途中，金属刺绣把面料弄坏了。但是高级定制服装既是一种手艺，也是一种艺术。既然这位设计师/老板有这样的热情，也许她应该设立一个“细心的手”工作室，以便使薇欧奈服装做出来的效果和设计的一样美丽。