TOKYO — Japan must strengthen its defense and seek a larger regional role as the balance of power shifts with the rise of China and the decline of American influence, according to a draft of a new national security strategy released Wednesday.
东京——日本必须加强自身防御，而且由于势力均衡随着中国的崛起和美国影响力的逐渐减弱而转移，日本必须寻求一个更大的区域作用，周三公布的一份新的国家安全战略草案这样说。
The draft, written by a group of experts appointed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, called for building even closer military ties with the United States, the postwar guarantor of Japanese security that still has 50,000 military personnel based in Japan. However, it also said Japan must “strengthen its own capabilities and expand its own roles” by bolstering its antimissile defenses and its ability to defend the freedom of navigation in surrounding seas — an apparent reference to China’s growing naval presence in the region.
这份草案由首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)任命的一组专家撰写，草案呼吁日本与美国建立更密切的军事关系，美国在二战之后负责日本的安全保障，至今仍在日本驻有5万名军事人员。但是，这份草案也提出，日本必须“加强自身的力量，扩大自身的作用”，这就要增强日本的反导弹防御以及在周边海域中捍卫自由通航的能力，后者显然针对的是中国在这一区域日益增长的海军力量。
The new strategy did not call for a sudden buildup in forces, and it appeared to be consistent with the gradual increase in Japan’s willingness and ability to defend itself in recent years, especially since a dispute over islands has heated up with China. Still, it offered a glimpse of how far Japan has come from a firmly pacifist nation that just two decades ago had seemed loath to even admit that it had a military.
新战略草案没有提要骤然增加军事力量，这看来与近年来、尤其是在一些岛屿问题上与中国的争端升温以来，日本的自我防御意识和能力的逐渐增长相吻合。尽管如此，人们仍可以从中窥视到日本从一个坚定的和平主义国家立场上走出了多远：仅在20年前，日本似乎甚至不愿意承认自己拥有军队。
Mr. Abe has vowed to give Japan an even stronger security posture, though he still emphasizes that Japan’s forces must remain purely defensive. Speaking to the group of experts, Mr. Abe called the draft a “historic document” because it is Japan’s first attempt at creating a national security strategy, and comes as Japan has created a new American-style national security council to strengthen its response to the changing regional environment.
虽然安倍晋三已经承诺，要让日本拥有更强大的安全态势，但是他仍强调，日本的军事力量必须完全是防御性的。安倍晋三在对这组专家讲话时称，草案是一份“历史性的文件”，因为它是日本在制定国家安全战略上的首次尝试，在草案出台之前，日本已经成立了一个新的美国式的国家安全委员会，以加强其对不断变化的区域环境的响应。
The draft cited China’s rapid military expansion as well as North Korea’s growing nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities as major causes of this shifting balance. It also specifically cited China’s “intrusions” into waters around disputed islands claimed by both nations, and its recent creation of an air defense zone, as concerns for Japan’s security.
草案指出，中国军事力量的快速扩张、以及朝鲜的核武器和弹道导弹能力的不断增长，是改变势力均衡的主要原因。草案还具体提到中国“闯入”两国都声称拥有主权的争端岛屿附近海域、以及中国最近划设的防空识别区，两者都是日本安全的担忧。
At the same time, the draft called on Japan to “work even harder to become a major player in international society” by building alliances with other nations including Australia, South Korea and Southeast Asian countries. It also recommended easing self-imposed restrictions on arms exports to allow Japan to join the United States and other nations in jointly developing new weapons.
与此同时，草案还呼吁日本“更加努力地在国际社会中发挥重要角色”，这就要与其他国家建立联盟，包括澳大利亚、韩国和东南亚各国。草案还建议放松在武器出口上的自我限制，从而允许日本与美国和其他国家一起联合研发新武器。
The document was released along with a draft of a new defense policy that calls for Japan to strengthen its ability to defend its southwestern islands, which would include the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea at the center of the territorial dispute with China. While the defense policy draft contained few specifics, Japanese defense officials have talked of acquiring American-made drones to patrol the East China Sea and tilt-rotor Osprey aircraft to ferry its troops to remote islands more quickly.
与上述文件同时发布的还有一个新的国防政策草案，后者呼吁日本加强保护该国西南部岛屿的能力，这些岛屿包括与中国有争议的那些无人居住的东海岛屿。尽管这份国防政策草案中没有多少具体内容，但是，日本防卫省官员曾谈论过一些可能性，包括用购买美国制造的无人机进行东海巡逻，以及用"鱼鹰"(Osprey)倾转旋翼机来更快地把部队运送到遥远岛屿。
The cabinet is expected to approve both drafts next week, local news media reported.
当地媒体报道称，日本内阁有望在下周批准这两项草案。