TOKYO — Just weeks after Japan agreed to give up a cache of weapons-grade plutonium, the country is set to push ahead with a program that would produce new stockpiles of the material, creating a proliferation risk for decades to come.
东京——在同意把一批武器级钚材料交给美国仅仅几周之后，日本就决意推出一个可以增加自身钚储备的计划。此举将在未来几十年内增大核扩散的风险。
Though that additional plutonium would not be the grade that is most desirable for bombs, and is therefore less of a threat, it could — in knowledgeable hands and with some work and time — be used to make a weapon. The newly created stockpiles would add to tons of other plutonium already being stored in Japan.
虽然这些新增的钚材料不属于最适合制造核弹的等级，因此威胁较小，但通晓这方面知识的人花上一些精力和时间，就可以用它来制造核武器。日本本来已经拥有数以吨计的钚，这些新增储备将会进一步扩大其存储量。
“The government made a big deal out of returning several hundred kilograms of plutonium, but it brushes over the fact that Japan has so much more,” said Sumio Mabuchi, an opposition lawmaker who served as adviser to the government in the early days of the 2011 Fukushima disaster. “It’s hypocritical.”
“政府对归还几百公斤钚的事情大书特书，但对日本拥有远比这个数量更大的钚材料的事实却轻轻带过，这真虚伪，”反对党国会议员马渊澄夫(Sumio Mabuchi)说。他曾在2011年福岛灾难之初担任过政府顾问。
Plutonium staying in Japan would be used for a nuclear recycling program that has become one of the most contentious parts of the nation’s first comprehensive energy plan since the Fukushima nuclear disaster. The plan is expected to be approved by the cabinet as early as Friday.
日本拥有的钚会被用在一个核回收项目中。该项目已成为福岛核灾难以来，该国第一个全面能源计划中最具争议的部分之一。该能源计划预计最早在本周五获得内阁批准。
The recycling program, which seeks to separate plutonium from used nuclear fuel so it can be reused to power reactors, is seen by supporters as a way of ensuring resource-poor Japan more energy independence.
这个回收项目旨在从使用过的核燃料中分离钚，以再次使用，为反应堆提供动力。支持者认为，对于资源贫乏的日本来说，这是实现能源自给自足的一个办法。
The program has helped delay the energy plan’s approval, with even some members of the governing party worried by its cost and by criticism from proliferation experts at home and abroad.
由于这个项目和其他一些因素，能源计划的批准过程遭到了延迟。就连执政党的一些成员也担心它的成本问题，以及它在国内外遭受到的来自核不扩散问题专家的批评。
Those experts fear the plutonium produced by recycling would create an inviting target for terrorists to steal or attack, and American officials have been quietly pressing Japan not to build up larger stocks of the material. The plutonium is far easier to use in weapons than the uranium that has been used to power most of Japan’s nuclear reactors.
这些专家担心，回收项目生成的钚将吸引恐怖分子开展窃取或攻击活动。美国官员一直在暗暗施压，希望日本不要增加钚储备。跟绝大多数日本核反应堆所使用的铀相比，用钚来制造武器要容易得多。
For the many Japanese frightened of atomic power after the Fukushima Daiichi disaster, the government’s continued push for recycling after years of missteps is a worrisome sign that the government plans a robust nuclear energy program in the future despite promises to eventually reduce the nation’s use of atomic power. (The country’s functioning nuclear reactors have been idled while they undergo more stringent safety checks introduced after the accident.)
福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的灾难发生后，很多日本人都对核能感到恐惧。他们认为，政府在这方面的失策已有多年，现在还要继续推动回收项目，这是一个令人担忧的迹象。它表明尽管政府承诺最终会减少核能的使用，但却计划在未来实施一个强有力的核能计划。（日本现有的核反应堆已停止运转，以便接受检查。福岛核灾后，日本出台了更加严格的安全检查标准。）
The plans also mean Japan is committed to using a mixed plutonium-uranium fuel for reactors that is considered somewhat more dangerous than uranium fuel if there is an accident. The mixture, called mixed oxide fuel, is necessary because plutonium produced by recycling cannot be used alone in the reactors.
该计划也意味着，日本决心在某些反应堆中使用钚铀混合燃料。业界认为，如果出现意外，这种混合燃料在一定程度上比铀燃料更危险。使用这种被称为“混氧燃料”的混合物是必要的，因为回收生成的钚不能单独用在反应堆中。
Japan’s intent to grow its plutonium inventory is also becoming a new irritant in Tokyo’s relations with its Asian neighbors, threatening to further destabilize a region already mired in disputes over territory and wartime history. This month, China accused Japan of stockpiling plutonium and uranium “far exceeding its normal needs.” The implication is that Japan wants to retain the plutonium in case it decided to pursue its own nuclear weapons program.
日本扩大钚储备的意图，也成为了激化东京与亚洲邻国关系的一个新焦点，可能会导致该区域的不稳定局面进一步恶化。目前，这一地区已经陷入跟领土和战争历史有关的争议。本月，中国指责日本存储的钚和铀“远远超过其正常需要”。言下之意是，日本想要保留这些钚材料，以便将来一旦做出决定，就可以开展自己的核武计划。
For Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and other proponents of recycling, the risks are outweighed by the benefit of more energy independence — a goal of Japanese leaders for decades. While uranium remains widely available, and cheap, the Abe administration says Japan’s nuclear program should not be vulnerable to disruptions of supply or a possible rise in costs.
在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和其他支持这个回收项目的人看来，如果能够实现能源自给自足这个日本领导人追求了几十年的目标，其好处超过了各种风险。虽然铀仍然在被广泛使用，而且价格便宜，但安倍政府表示，日本的核计划不应该受到供应中断和可能出现的成本上涨的影响。
“Japan must continue with the nuclear fuel cycle,” said Kazuo Ishikawa, a former Trade Ministry official who worked on energy policy. “Japan’s energy security depends on it.”
“日本必须继续进行核燃料回收活动，”曾在通商产业省从事能源政策工作的石川和男(Kazuo Ishikawa)说。“日本的能源安全就靠它了。”
Anxiety over Japan’s planned recycling program stretches back decades. As some countries, including Britain and Russia, have opted to reprocess plutonium for nuclear fuel, the United States under Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter turned away from the idea in good part because it was considered a possible new path to a bomb. The fear was that other countries would be more inclined to start the programs if the United States did so, creating stocks of plutonium around the world.
日本计划中的回收项目令人感到焦虑，其源头可以追溯到几十年前。当英国和俄罗斯等一些国家选择再处理后的钚作为核燃料时，杰拉尔德·R·福特(Gerald R. Ford)和吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)主政时期的美国却放弃了这个想法，其中相当大的一部分原因是，这可能会成为制造核弹的新途径。美国担心，如果自己这样做的话，其他国家会更加倾向于开展此类项目，那样一来，世界各地会产生更多的钚储备。
The stockpiles in Japan have been especially worrisome to American officials because they are lightly protected.
美国官员对日本的钚储备尤其感到担忧，因为它们的保护措施相对宽松。
Until recently, the Rokkasho Reprocessing Plant, where much of the plutonium is stored and where new plutonium will be extracted from spent fuel, was protected by unarmed guards since civilians cannot carry firearms under Japanese law. Armed policemen are now stationed at the plant for backup, but foreign nuclear proliferation experts worry the lightly armed guards would not be a match for terrorists.
直到不久前，六所村再处理工厂(Rokkasho Reprocessing Plant)——该工厂从乏燃料中回收钚，有很多钚材料储存在这里——都没有武装警卫把守，因为根据日本法律，平民不能持有武器。现在虽然有武装警察驻扎在这个工厂做后援，但是国外的核不扩散问题专家担心，这些配备轻型武器的警卫无法抵挡住恐怖分子的攻击。
People working at the plant, meanwhile, do not undergo criminal or terrorist background checks, according to officials at the plant, though there are plans to begin doing some vetting of employees’ backgrounds. The plant has not yet begun extracting new plutonium while it awaits final regulatory approval, but the energy plan is expected to create more pressure for a swift start. (The plutonium already there was reprocessed abroad.)
根据六所村工厂官员的介绍，这里的工作人员并未经过犯罪或恐怖主义背景调查，尽管有计划提出，要开始对员工进行某种背景核查。目前，该厂在等待监管机构的最终批准，尚未开始提取新的钚。不过，预计新的能源计划将带来更大的迅速开工的压力。（那里现存的钚是在国外进行再处理的。）
Still, Japanese officials are unlikely to give up on their recycling dreams. In the 1950s, when Japan first drew up its nuclear energy goals, officials assured a still war-weary nation that atomic power, together with recycling, would finally relieve Japan’s almost complete dependence on imported gas, oil and coal.
日本官员还是不太可能放弃他们的回收梦想。上世纪50年代，日本开始规划自身的核能目标。官方向对战争心有余悸的国民保证，原子能加上回收利用，最终将消除日本对进口油气及煤炭的几乎全盘依赖。
Tokyo had the blessing of its new ally, the United States, which was eager to sell its nuclear generation technology abroad and which planned a similar recycling plan at home. The United States helped supply uranium to Japan for its early reactors, and also shipped about 300 kilograms, or about 660 pounds, of weapons-grade plutonium to Japan to aid in its nuclear power research. The plutonium from that program is the cache Japan recently agreed to return.
东京当时有新盟友美国的帮助。美国急于外销自身拥有的核电技术，而且在本土规划了类似的回收计划。美国帮助向日本的早期反应堆提供了铀，还向日本运送了约300千克的武器级钚来助其进行核能研究。日本最近同意返还的钚储备就来自这一项目。
The plutonium that will remain is dedicated to the recycling project, which is decades behind schedule because of technical problems and opposition to recycling. “It is absurd that Japan is still seeing plutonium recycling as a ticket to energy security,” said Matthew Bunn, an associate professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
剩余的钚将被专门用于回收项目。由于技术问题和外界的反对，回收项目已比原计划落后了几十年。“日本仍然把钚回收看成是通往能源安全的车票，这真是荒谬，”哈佛大学肯尼迪政府学院(Kennedy School of Government)的副教授马修·邦恩(Matthew Bunn)说。
Besides a drive for energy independence, critics say the Japanese government is continuing to push recycling because the nuclear establishment remains powerful and because of the tremendous investment the government and utilities have made. The Rokkasho facility alone has taken $22 billion and more than 20 years to build.
除了对能源独立的渴望，批评人士认为，日本政府之所以不断推进回收计划，是因为核能权贵集团仍然势力强大，而且政府与电力企业已砸下了大笔投资。单是六所村这一处设施就用掉了220亿美元（约合1400亿元人民币），花费了逾20年时间建设。
“You make decisions, you make careers, you sink lots of investment, and it’s very difficult to look at the world going forward,” Robert Einhorn, who was an adviser to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said during a recent panel discussion on Japan’s stores of plutonium.
“你做了决定，以此成就职业生涯，下了血本，就很难眼睁睁地看着世界往前走，”在不久前关于日本钚储备的座谈会上，罗伯特·艾因霍恩(Robert Einhorn)说。他曾是希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)任国务卿时的顾问，目前在布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)担任高级研究员。