KUMAMOTO, Japan — The death toll from two powerful earthquakes and a series of continual aftershocks on the Japanese island of Kyushu reached 41 on Saturday, the authorities said, as rescue workers searched for survivors under collapsed buildings and mountains of earth displaced by landslides.
日本熊本——日本当局表示，九州岛上发生的两次强烈地震和一系列持续余震导致的死亡人数在周六达到41人，救援人员还在倒塌的建筑和山体滑坡导致的废墟之下搜寻幸存者。
The largest of the earthquakes struck the southwestern island early Saturday with a magnitude of 7.0, according to the United States Geological Survey, making it even more powerful than a 6.2-magnitude quake on Thursday night. The Japan Meteorological Agency said its measurements had registered the new quake at a magnitude of 7.3.
这轮地震的最强震于周六凌晨袭击了这座位于日本西南部的岛屿。据美国地质调查局(United States Geological Survey)监测，其震级达到7.0，比周四晚间发生的6.2级地震更为剧烈。日本气象厅(Japan Meteorological Agency)则表示，依据其监测结果，将新发生的这次地震定为7.3级。
Saturday’s quake, which occurred just before 1:30 a.m., toppled houses and apartment buildings, buckled roads and caused numerous landslides. Aftershocks shook the area throughout Saturday, more than 100 of them strong enough to damage buildings, the Meteorological Agency reported.
周六的地震发生于凌晨1点半之前的几分钟，导致不少独栋房屋和公寓楼倒塌，多条道路凹陷，还引起无数塌方事故。日本气象厅通报，整个周六期间，余震不断，其中有100多次的强度足以对房屋造成损害。
The police said 32 deaths were confirmed Saturday as a result of the quake and the aftershocks, adding to the nine deaths on Thursday. Many of those killed were older adults; some were trapped under collapsed buildings, and several died in fires and landslides in the mountainous region.
警方表示，由这次地震和之后的余震导致的死亡人数在周六确定为32人，另有9人在周四那场地震中遇难。遇难者有不少是老年人；有些是因为困在倒塌的建筑物之下，也有几人死于地震在山区引发的大火和塌方。
Rescue units were working to free people from more than 50 collapsed buildings, Yoshihide Suga, the government’s chief cabinet secretary, said.
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)表示，救援单位正在50多座倒塌建筑中开展搜救工作。
About 2,000 people were treated for injuries, NHK, the national public broadcaster, reported. Tens of thousands left their homes for school gymnasiums, community centers and other temporary shelters as power failures left more than 100,000 households without electricity.
据日本公共电视台NHK报道，有大约2000人因在地震中受伤而接受治疗。由于电力中断导致上十万家庭停电，数以万计的人离开自己的家，前往附近的学校体育馆、社区中心和其他临时庇护所栖身。
Some people prepared to spend the night in their cars, deeming them safer than houses or apartments.
也些人准备在自己的车里过夜，他们认为相比房屋或公寓，这里更加安全。
Television footage showed dark smoke rising from Mount Aso, a volcano about 20 miles east of the town of Mashiki, in Kumamoto Prefecture, where the centers of the strongest of the quakes have been clustered. Earthquakes and volcanic activity are closely associated, but the authorities said the eruption at Mount Aso, the biggest active volcano in Japan, was minor and did not pose an immediate threat.
有电视画面显示，黑烟从阿苏山(Mount Aso)上升起。这是距离熊本县益城町20英里处的一座火山，而这轮地震最强震的震中就位于熊本。地震和火山活动往往存在密切关联，但日本当局表示，作为日本最大的活火山，阿苏山这次的爆发规模比较小，没有构成直接的威胁。
Sections of a stone wall, centuries old, around Kumamoto Castle collapsed into the moat on Saturday morning. The castle had already sustained damage on Thursday. Several buildings at Aso Shrine, an ancient Shinto site on the north slope of Mount Aso that is considered a national treasure, also collapsed.
环绕熊本城(Kumamoto Castle)的有数百年历史的石墙，有一部分在周六早上坍塌，部分墙体掉入护城河中。这座城堡之前已经成功抵御了周四那场强震。位于阿苏山北坡上、堪称日本国宝之一的神道教古址阿苏神社(Aso Shrine)，也有多座建筑坍塌。
The Meteorological Agency classified the quake that set the disaster in motion on Thursday as a “foreshock” of the even larger one Saturday. It warned that strong earthquakes could continue for days until the seismic fault line under the area settled. Heavy rain began to fall Saturday night, increasing the risk of more landslides.
日本气象厅将周四开启这场灾难的那次地震，归为周六发生的强度更大的地震的“前震”。该机构警告，强震在接下来几天可能还会持续，直到这一区域地底的地震断层平静下来。周六晚上这里开始出现强降雨，增加了导致更多塌方的几率。
In the town of Minami-Aso, east of Mashiki, landslides tore the moorings from a 670-foot suspension bridge, causing it to plunge into a valley, and buried more than a dozen homes, NHK said. Two students in a university agricultural program died after a dormitory building in the town collapsed, the network said.
据NHK电视台报道，在益城町以东的南阿苏村，塌方的泥石撞毁一座670英尺（约合200米）长的吊桥的支撑结构，使之坠入山谷，掩埋了十多户人家。NHK还报道，有两名农业专业的大学生在位于村里的一座宿舍楼倒塌后遇难。
The government said it was sending units from the Army, known in Japan as the Self-Defense Forces, and from police departments around the country to help with rescue efforts.
日本政府表示，它正从日本军队——即自卫队(Self-Defense Forces)——和全国的警察机关调派力量，协助展开救援工作。
The earthquakes since Thursday have been concentrated along a cluster of fault lines that bisect the island of Kyushu from southwest to northeast. The island, somewhat larger than the state of Maryland, is home to 13 million people, though most of it is rural and sparsely populated.
自周四开始的这轮地震集中于从九州岛西南部延伸至东北部的一条地质断裂带，这条线将该岛一分为二。九州岛比美国马里兰州略大，岛上居住着1300万人口，不过这里大部分地区为乡村，人口分散。
The quake on Saturday was the strongest to strike Japan since a 9.0-magnitude offshore earthquake in 2011, which unleashed a tsunami that killed 18,000 people in the country’s northeast and set off meltdowns at a nuclear power plant in Fukushima.
周六的地震是日本自2011年发生9级近海地震以来遭遇的强度最大的一场地震。2011年那场地震导致的海啸，在日本西北部导致1.8万人丧生，并使得福岛一座核电站的多座反应堆发生熔毁泄露。