Japan’s soaring national debt, already more than twice the size of its economy, has reached a new milestone, surpassing one quadrillion yen.
日本高企的国债已经是其经济规模的两倍以上，如今又达到一个新的里程碑，突破一千万亿日元大关。
Let the word quadrillion roll around in your brain for a moment or two, because it is not something you hear every day. Quadrillion. 1,000,000,000,000,000. Really.
一千万亿，这个词需要在脑子里好好想想，因为不常听到。一千万亿，1,000,000,000,000,000。千真万确。
A paltry million is the numeral one followed by six zeros. A billion? Nine zeros. A trillion is getting up there: 12 zeros. But the mighty quadrillion has 15 of them.
微不足道的一百万，是数字1后面跟6个零。十亿？九个零。一万亿有点意思了：12个零。但伟大的千万亿有整整15个零。
The mind boggles. (Though it doesn’t googol: that one is followed by 100 zeros. And that’s the actual spelling. You can Google it.)
惊天动地的数字。（不过还是跟古戈尔没法比：1后面跟着100个零。没错，就是叫这个名字。请自行谷歌。）
A quadrillion is a million billion, putting it into the kind of language used by middle schoolers to describe really humongous sums, along with gazillion and bazillion.
它其实就是一百万个十亿。这个词常被中学生用来形容无比巨大的数字，他们还会说“非常大”和“极其大”。
Measuring any currency in quadrillions brings to mind the hyperinflation of Germany between the wars, or Zimbabwe in the last decade. But a country with a real currency?
用千万亿来度量任何一种货币，都会让人联想到两次世界大战之间的德国发生的恶性通货膨胀，或过去10年的津巴布韦。但在一个有着像样货币的国家呢？
It is such a big and unusual word, describing such a big and unusual number, that its use is inconsistent: Bloomberg News used quadrillion in the headline of an early story on Friday about Japan’s debt, but later in the day the stories and headlines referred to a “thousand trillion,” which is not nearly as much fun.
这是个太过庞大而不寻常的词，形容了一个太过庞大而不寻常的数字，以至于都无法统一地使用：在彭博新闻(Bloomberg News)周五的一篇较早报道日本国债问题的文章中，“千万亿”出现在了标题里，但当天晚些时候出现的报道和标题都用了相对无聊一些的“一千个万亿”。
Questions e-mailed to the Bloomberg editors responsible for those stories were not returned, suggesting perhaps a lexicographical quadrilliongate.
就这些报道向彭博社编辑发出的电子邮件问询没有得到回复，表明这可能已经成为一起词典学上的“千万亿门事件”。
How much is a quadrillion? The entire human body is said to have just 100 trillion cells; it takes 10 of us to make a quadrillion. Jeff Bezos has a personal fortune of some $25 billion, allowing him to plunk down $250 million for The Washington Post, which is essentially how much money he might find by looking behind his sofa cushions. To get to a quadrillion dollars, however, we would have to have 40,000 Bezoses, or as many people as live in Prescott, Ariz.
一千万亿有多少？整个人体据说只有100万亿个细胞；需要10个人才能凑够一千万亿个。杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)的个人财富大概是250亿美元，这让他可以甩出个2.5亿购买《华盛顿邮报》，这笔钱他在沙发靠垫缝隙里翻一翻就能凑出来了。然而要想达到一千万亿美元，我们得有4万个贝佐斯，就是说得有亚利桑那州普莱斯科特市全部人口那么多的贝佐斯。
Neil deGrasse Tyson, the astrophysicist and director of the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History, helpfully offered a few other ways to think about a quadrillion. “It would take you 31 million years to count to a quadrillion — one number per second, never sleeping,” he said in an e-mail, adding that “a quadrillion yen, stacked in 1,000-yen notes, would ascend 70,000 miles high.”
对于如何认识一千万亿，天体物理学家、美国自然历史博物馆(American Museum of Natural History)的海登天文馆(Hayden Planetarium)馆长尼尔·德格拉斯·泰森(Neil deGrasse Tyson)给出了一些卓有成效的建议。“从一数到一千万亿可能要花3100万年——一秒钟数一下，不睡觉，”他在一封电子邮件中说，另外“一千万亿日元，换成1000日元面额的纸钞，叠起来有7万英里高”。
He also wrote, though it is not clear how he would know such a thing, that “the total number of all sounds and words ever uttered by all humans who have ever lived is about 100 quadrillion.”
虽然不知道他是怎么得出来的，但他在信中还说“自有人类以来的所有人曾发出过的声音和词语加起来有大约100千万亿个”。
“This figure includes all Congressional debates and filibusters,” Mr. Tyson wrote.
“这个数字已经包括了所有的国会辩论和拖延战术，”泰森说。
Compared with Japan, the United States national debt is a mere $16 trillion or so. But if you convert that number into yen, it comes to about 1.5 quadrillion. So it’s good to have a currency that conserves its zeros. Of course, that also means the total American debt is even larger than Japan’s (though not, it should be noted, as a percentage of gross domestic product).
与日本相比，美国的国债只有16万亿美元的样子。但如果把这笔钱换成日元，那大概是1.5千万亿。所以有个不用写太多0的货币是件好事。当然，这也意味着美国的债务总额比日本还高（不过需要注意的是，在国内生产总值里的占比就不一样了）。
Hmm. Let’s not talk about that.
嗯。我们还是不要说下去了。