TOKYO — March was a boom month for Askul, but the online retailer is far from happy. Shoppers racing to beat an impending increase in Japan’s national sales tax swamped Askul’s systems, snapping up toilet paper, instant rice and other essentials that will be more expensive when the rate goes up to 8 percent on Tuesday, from 5 percent.
东京——爱速客乐(Askul)3月份的生意异常红火，但这家网络零售商一点也不开心。由于日本的全国销售税即将调高，为了减少这个变化带来的损失，大量消费者涌入了爱速客乐的系统，抢购卫生纸、速食米饭以及其他生活必需品。周二，在销售税率从5%上调到8%后，这些商品的价格全部上涨。
With the last-minute rush, stationery now takes up to a week to reach customers — a crisis for a company that is so committed to overnight delivery that its name, Askul, is Japanese for “arrives tomorrow.” And Askul worries that once the tax increase takes effect, business will screech to a halt as consumers cut back on spending.
由于调税生效前的这波抢购潮，爱速客乐的办公用品目前需要长达一周的时间才能送到顾客手上。对这家致力于隔夜送达的公司来说，这无疑是一场危机。该公司的名字“Askul”在日语里的意思就是“明天到达”。爱速客乐担心，一旦销售税上涨，随着消费者缩减开支，生意就会突然清淡下来。
“It’s been such a big disruption,” an Askul spokesman, Kosuke Ito, said of the tax increase. “Now we’re bracing for a sharp falloff.”
“这对我们造成了极大的影响，”爱速客乐发言人伊藤耕介（Kosuke Ito，音译）提到税率上调时说，“我们目前正在为销售额的大幅下降做准备。”
So is the rest of Japan. Some department stores in central Tokyo have stayed open late to accommodate last-minute shoppers. On Monday, cars lined up outside of gas stations, as drivers tried to fill up before midnight to save extra yen.
日本的其他商家也面临着相同的问题。为了接待最后的抢购者，东京市中心的一些百货商店把营业时间延长到了深夜。周一，加油站外的汽车排起了长队，司机们都想在午夜之前把油箱加满来省点钱。
“We got here just in time,” said Kyoko Yamashita, waiting with her husband while an attendant filled up their Honda minivan late Monday at a 24-hour Showa Shell station in central Tokyo.
周一夜里，在东京市中心24小时营业的一家日本昭和壳牌石油(Showa Shell)加油站，山下恭子（Kyoko Yamashita，音译）和丈夫等待着工作人员帮他们的本田(Honda)面包车加油。她说，“我们来的正是时候。”
After the rush to stock up, economists are concerned that consumers will hunker down in April — and maybe for longer. Any such pullback would be a big risk to the country’s already shaky recovery.
经济学家担心，在抢购潮过后，在4月份或许更久的时间里，消费者会减少购物。消费者支出的下降会对日本尚不稳定的经济复苏构成巨大的威胁。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has focused on trying to get consumers to spend as part of a broader effort to kick-start the economy and stoke inflation. But after years of deflation, consumers have been reluctant to open their wallets.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)一直专注于提高消费者支出，从而实现刺激经济和促使通胀率增长的宏伟目标。但由于多年的通货紧缩，消费者一直不愿意敞开了花钱。
As the tax increases takes effect, the worry is that consumers will only retrench further. Mrs. Yamashita said she would “probably think twice” about hopping in her car to run errands now that taxes are going up.
目前的担忧是，随着销售税上调生效，消费者只会进一步捂紧口袋。山下恭子说，由于税率上涨，她现在在跳进车里，外出处理杂事之前，“可能会再三考虑”。
“A fall in personal consumption is unavoidable after the consumption tax rate hike,” Daiki Takahashi, an economist at Tokyo’s Dai-ichi Life Research Institute, said in a report.
东京第一生命研究所(Daiichi Life Research Institute)的经济学家高桥大贵（Daiki Takahashi，音译）在一份报告中说，“在销售税大幅上调之后，个人消费的减少是不可避免的。”
History doesn’t offer much solace. When Japan last raised its sales tax, in 1997, it cast a pall over consumption that helped plunge the country into a recession.
以往的经验只会让人更加沮丧。日本上一次提高销售税是在1997年，那次的上调使消费疲软，使日本陷入了经济衰退。
At around that time, Japan also started to experience deflation, the painful fall in prices, wages and profits brought about by a shortfall in demand. Such issues are a big reason the nation’s spending habits are so closely tracked.
大约也是那个时候，日本还开始经历通货紧缩——需求下降所带来的那种恼人的物价、工资和利润减少。这些问题是日本消费习惯受到密切关注的主要原因。
While Japan is on firmer economic footing now, Mr. Abe is encountering his first real headwinds since he took office in late 2012. He galvanized markets last year with a combination of aggressive monetary easing, government spending and promised reforms. But realizing the next phase of his economic recovery plan — creating a virtuous cycle of rising prices and wages — will be a tougher feat.
尽管日本目前的经济基础较为稳固，安倍却正在遭遇他2012年末就任以来的第一轮真正挑战。去年，凭借着激进的货币宽松政策、调整政府支出和做出改革承诺，安倍刺激了市场。但实现经济复苏计划的下一个阶段——创造物价和工资上涨的良性循环——将是更加棘手的任务。
Recent economic data have been worrisome. Japan’s gross domestic product was weaker than expected, driven in part by softness in consumer spending and business expenditures.
近期的经济数据令人担忧。日本的GDP低于预期，部分原因是消费者支出和企业支出的疲软。
“For the next three months, the government will have to pivot from talking about growth figures and stock market gains to showing how it is cushioning the blow to Japanese households,” said Tobias Harris, a Japan expert at Teneo Intelligence, a New York-based firm that advises companies.
总部位于纽约的咨询公司Teneo Intelligence的日本问题专家托比阿斯·哈里斯(Tobias Harris)说，“未来三个月，日本政府将需要转移重点，不要再谈论增长数字和股市上涨了，而是要证明自己正在采用何种方式减轻日本家庭受到的影响。”
Mr. Abe has sought to address a possible slowdown in consumption with another blast of public works spending. The government pushed through a 5.5 trillion yen supplementary budget in February, and some economists expect the Bank of Japan to introduce more monetary easing.
安倍已经寻求通过另一批公共项目支出，着手应对可能出现的消费减缓。日本政府2月份成功通过了5.5万亿日元（约合336亿元人民币）的补充预算，一些经济学家预计，日本银行(Bank of Japan)将出台更多货币宽松政策。
But both Mr. Abe and the Bank of Japan’s governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, have stood firm in their support for higher taxes, which they say are necessary to meet the growing costs of taking care of a population that is both shrinking and aging. Mr. Abe is set to decide later this year whether a further increase in the consumption tax, to 10 percent in 2015, should go ahead as planned.
不过，安倍和日本银行行长黑田东彦(Haruhiko Kuroda)都坚决支持税率上调，他们说，要照顾日本不断减少和老龄化的人口，负担相应费用的增加，税率上调是必要的。安倍将于今年晚些时候决定销售税进一步上调——在2015年上调至10%——是否将按计划进行。
Some retailers have been trying to capitalize on the tax increase by persuading consumers to spend now.
一些零售商一直在努力利用这次销售税上调来盈利，鼓励消费者现在花钱。