Campaigning for the July 21 parliamentary election began across Japan on Thursday, with opinion polls forecasting major gains for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his economic revival plan.
周四，日本各地都开始了为7月21日议院选举所进行的竞选活动，民意调查预测,首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)及其经济复苏计划的支持率将有大幅提升获得。
At stake in the election are half of the seats in the upper house of Parliament, where his main opponents, the Democratic Party, now have control. Mr. Abe’s conservative governing party, the Liberal Democrats, soundly defeated the Democrats in December in elections for the more powerful lower house of Parliament, and the polls so far suggest that they will repeat that feat in the upper house. If they succeed, Mr. Abe will be the first Japanese prime minister in years to break a rapid cycle of rise and fall for the country’s leaders.
这次选举的成败关键是参议院的半数席位，因为目前控制参议院的是安倍晋三的主要对手民主党(Democratic Party)。他那个立场保守的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)在去年12月以绝对优势击败民主党，赢得了权力更大的众议院的选举。迄今为止的民意测验显示，他们将在参议院选举中取得同样的战绩。如果他们能够胜出，安倍晋三就会成为多年来首位打破日本领导人起起落落快速循环的首相。
Control of both houses of Parliament would give Mr. Abe more freedom to push forward a doctrine that his party now proudly calls Abenomics, a cocktail of monetary stimulus, government spending and promised economic changes meant to jolt Japan out of its long deflationary slump.
如果同时控制了议会两院，安倍晋三就能享有更多自由，便于推行被其政党自豪地称为“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)的政策。这项政策包括刺激货币、加大政府支出以及推行曾经承诺的经济改革，目的在于使日本走出长期的通货紧缩低谷。
Enthusiasm for Abenomics has already driven up prices on the Tokyo stock market by one-third this year, and Japan’s aggressive easing of monetary policy has lifted the country’s mainstay exports by pushing down the yen's value against the dollar and other currencies. Japan's economy is now the fastest-growing among the Group of 7 major industrialized nations.
今年，人们对安倍经济学的热忱已经使东京股票市场的价格上涨了三分之一。此外，日本的激进货币宽松政策使得日元对美元及其他货币贬值，由此改善了支柱性的出口产业。目前，在由主要工业化国家组成的七国集团中，日本的经济增长最为迅速。
Here in Himeji, a sleepy city in western Japan known for its picturesque feudal castle, the Liberal Democratic candidate Yoshitada Kounoike spoke of the progress the government has made so far and urged voters to give the governing party an even stronger hold on power, to make sure the recovery takes root.
在以迷人的封建城堡著称的日本西部小城姬路，自民党候选人鸿池祥肇(Yoshitada Kounoike)谈起了政府到目前为止所取得的进步，并恳求选民们给予执政党更稳固的控制权，以确保经济复苏的势头得到巩固。
“It’s clear our economic policies are starting to work — please trust that we can carry through,” Mr. Kounoike told about 200 people gathered on a busy shopping street. “You’ve seen that with the Liberal Democratic Party, today has been better than yesterday and tomorrow will be better than today,” he called out. “But there are still those in Parliament who insist on getting in the way.”
在一条繁忙的购物街上，鸿池祥肇对大约200名听众说，“很明显，我们的经济政策开始见效了——请相信我们能够贯彻始终。”“你们已经看到，有了自民党，今天比昨天好，明天还会比今天更好，”他高喊着，“但是，议会中仍然有人在坚持阻挡我们前进的道路。”
For the Liberal Democrats and their junior coalition partners to gain control of the upper house, they must win 63 of the 121 contested seats in this month’s election. For the governing party to win an outright majority of its own, it must win 72 seats.
要想控制参议院，自民党及其执政联盟当中的小党派就必须在本月的选举中赢得121个竞争席位中的63席。如果执政党想要单独取得绝对优势，那就必须赢得72个席位。
By focusing on the economy, the Liberal Democrats have pushed more divisive issues, like the future of Japan’s nuclear program out of the spotlight. Though Mr. Abe is known as a hawk with revisionist views of Japan's wartime history and as a proponent of changing Japan’s pacifist Constitution, he has so far kept his noneconomic agenda secondary to his promises of broad economic recovery.
通过关注经济，自民党人已经把一些更容易引起分歧的问题打入了冷宫，比如日本核项目的未来。众所周知，安倍晋三是个鹰派分子，对日本战时历史持修正主义观点，并且支持修改日本的和平宪法，尽管如此，到目前为止，他一直都把非经济议程放在了关于广泛经济复苏的承诺之后。
“I make this promise to you: Japan’s economy can grow,” Mr. Abe told his first election rally in the city of Fukushima. “Let’s strive to be No. 1 again. Let’s bring Japan back to the world’s center stage.”
“我向你们保证：日本经济能够增长，”在福岛举行首次竞选集会的时候，安倍晋三说，“让我们力争再次成为第一。让我们将日本带回世界的中心舞台。”