TOKYO — A long-running political dispute in Japan over the proposed relocation of a United States Marine Corps air base entered new territory on Tuesday, after the governor of Okinawa revoked permission for construction work to take place at the site planned for the facility.
东京——美国海军陆战队的一座航空基地计划搬迁，这在日本引发了旷日持久的政治争议。周二，这场纷争进入了新阶段，因为冲绳县知事撤消了在规划地点建设施工的许可。
The decision, which central government officials in Tokyo said they would appeal, is the latest setback for a 20-year effort by Japanese and American military planners to move the base, Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, from its current location in the middle of a crowded Okinawan city to a less populated part of the island.
这个决定是一项持续了20年的尝试所面临的最新挫折。过去20年来，日本和美国军方的规划人员一直试图把美国海军陆战队普天间航空基地(Marine Corps Air Station Futenma)迁移到岛上人口较为稀疏的地方。该基地目前位于冲绳岛上一座人口稠密的城市当中。
Conflict over the base has grown more acute under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has pledged to complete the site for the Marines on Henoko Bay — a goal that has eluded numerous predecessors. Tokyo and Washington agreed on the relocation in the 1990s, but popular opposition in Okinawa has prevented the deal from being carried out. Many residents want the American military presence on their small southern island reduced, not simply redistributed.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)上台后，围绕该基地的冲突变得更加尖锐。安倍晋三承诺要完成位于边野古湾(Henoko Bay)的基地建设，多位前首相都未能达成这个目标。东京和华盛顿在90年代便就搬迁达成了共识，但冲绳民众的普遍反对，使得该计划未能实施。日本南部这座岛屿上的很多居民希望减少美军的力量，而不只是调整布局。
Mr. Abe has risked political resistance by reviving the relocation project, which is part of his broader focus on national security. Mr. Abe’s agenda, partly driven by concerns over the growing military power of China, is hawkish for a Japanese leader: Along with bolstering Japan’s already strong defense ties to the United States, he has lifted restrictions on arms exports, reversed a long decline in military spending and — most contentious — reinterpreted the pacifist Constitution to allow Japanese forces to undertake some types of combat missions overseas.
安倍晋三冒着遭遇政治阻力的风险，重提搬迁项目，这是他对国家安全的广泛关注的一部分。对中国军事力量日渐增强的担心，一定程度上推动了安倍晋三的议程。对一名日本领导人来说，他的议程已经称得上强硬：在增强本就牢固的日美防务关系的同时，他取消了武器出口禁令，扭转了军费开支长期下滑的趋势。而引发最大争议的是，他重新解释和平宪法，允许日本部队承担某些类型的海外作战任务。
Residents’ frustration with their assigned role in Mr. Abe’s plans is also increasing, however.
然而，安倍的计划中给民众指派的角色，也令民众日益感到不满。
At a news conference on Tuesday in the Okinawan capital of Naha, the governor, Takeshi Onaga, said that there were “legal flaws” with a permit issued by his predecessor that allows construction crews commissioned by the Japanese Defense Ministry to work in the coral-filled waters of Henoko Bay.
周二，冲绳县知事翁长雄志(Takeshi Onaga)在首府那霸举行的新闻发布会上表示，前任知事允许日本防卫省委托的施工人员，在布满珊瑚的边野古湾水域作业的许可，存在“法律漏洞”。
“I have sent notice that I am revoking permission,” he said.
“我已发函通知说要撤销许可，”他说。
Mr. Onaga wants the Marine base moved off Okinawa altogether. Okinawa is home to about 25,000 United States military personnel, more than half the total stationed throughout Japan. Most residents support the governor’s position, according to opinion surveys.
翁长雄志希望海军陆战队的基地彻底搬离冲绳。冲绳岛上有大约2.5万名美军，超过驻日美军总人数的一半。民调显示，大部分民众支持知事的立场。
Though Mr. Onaga’s decision had been widely expected, several dozen demonstrators who had camped out in front of an existing United States military installation on Henoko Bay, Camp Schwab, broke into cheers after the announcement, in footage carried by Japanese news broadcasts. Camp Schwab would be greatly expanded under the relocation plan, with new runways extending into the bay. So far, little actual work has been done, but even preparatory surveys have drawn protests.
此前，外界已普遍预料到了翁长雄志的决定。但决定宣布后，在边野古湾现有的美军设施施瓦布营(Camp Schwab)前露营的几十名示威者，还是爆发出了一阵欢呼，日本的新闻报道中记录下了这一幕。按照搬迁方案，施瓦布营将会大幅扩建，新建的飞机跑道将延伸进边野古湾。截至目前，几乎还没开展什么实质性的工作，但即便是筹备性的测绘，也已经引发了抗议。
In Tokyo, officials said they would seek to have Mr. Onaga’s decision overruled. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport has ultimate jurisdiction over the type of construction permit revoked by the governor — meaning the government would, in effect, be appealing to itself.
在东京，官员称他们将争取否决翁长雄志的决定。国土交通省对翁长雄志撤销的这类建筑许可拥有最终管辖权，这意味着政府实际上要向自己提起申诉。
“There is no change to our plan to continue with construction in order to prepare for relocation,” said the government’s main spokesman, Yoshihide Suga.
“为给搬迁做准备，我们继续建设的计划没有改变，”日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说。
Experts said the matter would most likely end up in court. Judges’ decisions and the inevitable appeals could take years, and it was unclear whether work on the new base could continue in the meantime or would remain frozen.
专家称事情最后极有可能闹到法庭上。法官的裁决和不可避免的上诉可能要持续数年。尚不清楚在此期间，新基地的施工是会继续还是保持冻结。
Masakazu Aharen, a professor at Shizuoka University, said getting Mr. Onaga’s decision overruled could be politically costly for Mr. Abe. The prime minister’s poll ratings fell this summer after he pushed a set of national security bills through Parliament over widespread voter opposition. Ignoring popular sentiment on Okinawa could add to his reputation for imperiousness.
静冈大学(Shizuoka University)教授阿波连正一(Masakazu Aharen)表示，对安倍晋三来说，否决翁长雄志的决定政治代价高昂。今年夏天，安倍晋三不顾选民的普遍反对，推动一系列国家安全议案在议会获得通过，之后他的民意支持率出现下滑。无视冲绳岛上民众的情绪，可能会加剧他专横的名声。