TOKYO — Legislators scuffled in Parliament and demonstrators took to the streets on Thursday as Japan’s governing coalition struggled to secure final passage of contentious legislation that would loosen decades-old limits on the country’s military.
东京 — 周四，随着日本的执政联盟努力让有争议的法案获得最后通过，日本立法者在议会发生肢体冲突，示威者走上街头抗议。修改后的法案将放宽长达数十年之久的对日本军队的限制。
The package of 11 bills was still tied up in Parliament’s upper house on Thursday evening, past an initial deadline set by the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has spent considerable political capital trying to convince a skeptical public that Japan should play a more assertive role in global military affairs.
直到周四晚间，这份含有11条法律的一揽子议案仍未得到议会上院的最后表决，已超出了安倍晋三首相当初设定的最后期限。安倍晋三在试图说服持怀疑态度的公众、让他们接受日本应该在全球军事事务中发挥更坚定自信作用的问题上，已经花掉了相当多的政治资本。
Scenes reminiscent of a rugby match played out Thursday in the committee chamber where lawmakers have been debating the bills for weeks. Opposition politicians tried to prevent voting by piling on top of the committee chairman and wrestling away his microphone. Governing party lawmakers pulled them away and formed a protective scrum around the chairman to allow him to call the vote. The scenes were broadcast live on television by the national broadcaster, NHK.
让人联想起橄榄球比赛的场景，在参议院特别委员会的会议室中上演，立法者们已在这里对法案进行了好几周的争论。反对派的政客们试图阻止表决的进行，他们蜂拥到台上，把委员会主席押在下面，要把麦克风从他手中夺走。执政党的议员们把反对派议员一个个拉开，在主席周围形成了一道保护人墙，让他得以宣布投票开始。这一场面由日本的国家广播公司NHK在电视上作了直播。
The committee eventually passed the legislation, and the next step was to be a vote by the full upper house. The timing of that vote remained unclear on Thursday evening.
特别委员会最终通过了法案，下一步将是整个参议院对其进行投票。何时表决在周四晚上仍不清楚。
If passed, the legislation would allow the Japanese military, known as the Self-Defense Forces, to cooperate more closely with the militaries of allies like the United States, by providing logistical support and, in certain circumstances, armed backup in international conflicts.
如果获得通过，该法案将允许被称为自卫队的日本军队，通过提供后勤支持，与美国等盟国的军队更加紧密地合作，在某些情况下，还可以在国际冲突中充当武装后备。
In the past, the Self-Defense Forces have played noncombat roles in United Nations peacekeeping operations and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the use of force has been limited by law to the direct defense of Japan.
过去，日本自卫队在联合国维和行动中、以及在伊拉克和阿富汗战争中起过非战斗人员的作用，但自卫队的武力使用被法律限制在仅用于日本的本土防御上。
Mr. Abe and other conservatives argue that the strictly defensive security policy that Japan has followed since the end of World War II is inadequate to meet modern-day threats like the growing military power of China. Critics worry that abandoning the policy would lead to Japan’s becoming involved in unnecessary foreign wars, and they contend that the legislation violates Japan’s antiwar Constitution.
安倍晋三及其他保守派人士认为，日本自第二次世界大战后一直遵循的仅限于防御的安全政策，不足以满足当今世界上面临的威胁，比如中国不断增长的军事实力。批评人士则担心，放弃这种防御政策将让日本卷入不必要的国外战争，他们争辩说，新法案违背了日本的反战宪法。
Mr. Abe’s government, which controls a majority of seats in the legislature, has indicated that it still hopes to pass the bills by the end of this week. If it succeeds, it will be an important victory for the conservative leader, who has dedicated his career to correcting what he sees as an excessive, outdated national pacifism that is a legacy of Japan’s disastrous wartime experience.
安倍晋三的政府控制着议会的多数席位，政府表示，它仍希望在本周结束时让法案获得通过。如果政府能成功，这将是保守党领袖安倍晋三的一次重要胜利，他把自己的职业生涯都用在纠正他认为是过度、过时的日本和平主义宪法，那是日本经历了一场灾难性战争后的遗产。
His defense agenda is opposed by a majority of the public, however. Demonstrators had gathered in front of the Parliament building on Wednesday night as the upper house committee that has been debating the bills moved toward its final session. The session was ultimately delayed until Thursday by procedural haggling between Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party and a group of opposition parties opposed to the bills.
但是，他的国防议程受到大多数市民的反对。周三晚上，随着参议院委员会对议案的辩论进入最后阶段，示威者们在议会大楼前聚集。由于属于安倍晋三的自民党的议员与属于几个反对党派的议员之间发生了有关程序的争论，最后会议被推迟到周四。
Organizers put the number of demonstrators Wednesday night at 35,000, though the police said the crowd was about half that size. A few braved heavy rain to stay through the night and into Thursday, and the crowd was swelling again on Thursday evening.
示威组织者把参加周三晚上抗议活动的人数估计在3.5万，但警方说，人群大约只有那个数字的一半。一些人冒着暴雨彻夜留守在那里，直到周四，人群在周四晚再次增多。
Mr. Abe’s party and its junior partner, Komeito, have enough members in the upper house to pass the bills, but the opposition is using a number of delaying tactics — like lodging procedural objections and physically blocking governing party lawmakers from entering committee rooms — to draw out the process.
虽然安倍晋三的政党及其执政小伙伴公明党在参议院有足够多的席位让法案获得通过，但反对派在使用各种各样的拖延战术，推迟投票，比如对程序提出反对动议，还用身体阻挡执政党的国会议员进入特别委员会会议室。
Though there is little they can do to prevent the bills’ ultimate passage, they may be hoping to further stoke public sentiment against the bills and inflict maximum political damage on Mr. Abe.
虽然他们在阻止法案的最终通过上能做的事情极为有限，但他们也许希望能进一步激起公众对议案的反对情绪，并给安倍晋三造成最大的政治损害。