A 2010 incident in which a Chinese fishing boat collided with Japanese coast guard vessels has re-emerged as a point of contention in the two countries’ continuing dispute over a cluster of uninhabited islets in the East China Sea.
2010年一艘中国渔船与日本海上保安厅船只相撞的事件，再次成为中日两国长期以来对东海中一群无人居住小岛主权纠纷的焦点。
The Japanese government filed a damages claim in an Okinawa court on Wednesday against the captain of the fishing vessel, Zhan Qixiong, who was detained after the incident but was later released amid Chinese diplomatic pressure and the threat of economic retaliation.
日本政府周三在冲绳一家法院向这艘渔船的船长詹其雄提起损害索赔，詹其雄在撞船事件发生后曾被日方逮捕，但因迫于中国方面施加的外交压力以及经济报复的威胁，日本后来将其释放。
Mr. Zhan did not respond to previous requests for compensation, the Kyodo news service reported, and Japan decided to pursue the claim for 14.29 million yen, or about $140,000, before its window to take legal action expired on Feb. 20.
日本共同通讯社(kyodo news service)报道称，詹其雄没有回应此前提出的损失赔偿要求，日本决定在可依法采取行动的期限在2月20日结束前，索要1429万日元（约合85万元人民币）的赔偿金。
The incident occurred in waters near the islands, which are administrated by Japan but also claimed by China and Taiwan. The islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, have become a major irritant in the two countries’ increasingly fraught relationship.
撞船事件发生在有争议岛屿附近水域，这些岛屿由日本管辖，但中国和台湾都对它们宣称拥有主权。这些被日本称作尖阁诸岛、被中国称作钓鱼岛的岛屿一直是中日两国日益紧张关系的一个主要刺激点。
In video of the incident leaked by a member of a Japanese coast guard crew, smoke wafts from one Japanese vessel after the Chinese trawler strikes its side.
在这段撞船事件的视频中可以看到，中国拖网渔船撞了一艘日本船的船身后，日本船上冒起一阵浓烟。视频是日本海上保安厅的一名成员泄漏的。
Mr. Zhan, the skipper, was welcomed by Chinese officials on his return to his hometown of Fuzhou and lauded as a hero by many Chinese.
中国渔船的船长詹其雄回到家乡福州时，曾受到中国官员的欢迎，他被许多中国人视为英雄。
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, rejected the Japanese claim when asked about the case during a news briefing on Wednesday. She said that Japan “grossly infringed upon China’s territorial sovereignty and damaged Chinese fishermen’s legitimate rights and interests” in the collision.
中国外交部发言人华春莹在周三的新闻例会上被问及这一事件时表示，不接受日本的索赔。她说，撞船事件是“日方严重侵犯中国领土主权、损害中国渔民正当权益的严重事件”。
“We urge the Japanese side to stop provocation and take concrete actions to own up to and correct mistakes,” Ms. Hua said.
华春莹说，“我们敦促日方停止挑衅，以实际行动承认和纠正错误。”