TOKYO — During a press conference in March, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga expressed concern over comments I had made during a program on TV Asahi, a major private broadcasting network: I had announced that I would no longer be appearing on the show after being subjected to “fierce bashing” from the prime minister’s office. According to the daily Asahi Shimbun, Mr. Suga said, “We will closely watch how the TV station handles the issue in line with the Broadcast Law” — a veiled threat to revoke the station’s license.
东京——在3月的一次新闻发布会上，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)对我在主要的私营电视网络朝日电视台(TV Asahi)的一档节目上发表的评论表示关注。我当时宣布，在遭到首相办公室的“严厉抨击”后，我将不会再出现在该节目上。据《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)报道，菅义伟说，“我们将密切关注朝日电视台如何依照广播法处理此事。”这是在隐晦地威胁要吊销该台的执照。
On April 17, a special panel of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (L.D.P.) held a special meeting at party headquarters and summoned executives of both TV Asahi and NHK, a public broadcaster, to discuss two TV programs the party thought had been critical of the administration of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
4月17日，执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)成立的一个特别委员会在该党总部召开了一次特别会议，并把朝日电视台和公共广电公司NHK的高管叫去讨论两档电视节目。自民党认为那两档节目对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的政府持批评态度。
After I appeared on Tokyo MX TV, a local station, on April 25, an executive member of the L.D.P. reportedly told some journalists, “I heard that there was a TV station which allowed Mr. Koga to appear on a program. What a courageous TV station, I should say!”
我4月25日在地方台东京MX电视台(Tokyo MX TV)现身后，自民党的一名执委据说对一些记者表示，“我听说一家电视台让古贺茂名上了节目。我得说，这家电视台真有胆量。”
And so it is that the Japanese government tampers with the media’s independence. This is happening partly because of longstanding structural characteristics that govern the relationship between the media and the state in Japan. But the Abe government has been especially aggressive in using those to its advantage, and major segments of the industry are quickly internalizing its preferences.
日本政府就是这样干预媒体独立的。出现这种情况，部分是因为长期影响日本媒体和政府之间关系的结构性特点。但在利用那些特点上，安倍政府一向特别强硬，而这个行业的重要成员则正在迅速对安倍政府的偏好进行妥协。
Instead of pushing back against Mr. Suga’s intimidation, for example, TV Asahi reprimanded the employees who had produced the TV program during which I criticized the government. And instead of invoking the anti-interference provisions of the broadcasting laws to resist questioning by the L.D.P., those TV executives complied with the party’s summons.
比如，朝日电视台没对菅义伟的恐吓进行反击，而是训斥了我批评政府的那档节目的制作人员。此外，那些电视台高管没有用广播法中的反干预条款拒绝自民党的问询，而是应声前往。
In Japan, relations between the state and journalists are formally maintained through a network of reporters’ clubs, or kisha kurabu. There is a reporters’ club for each ministry, each local government, each political party, each industry association. Membership in the clubs is generally limited to reporters at major media companies. Typically, only members are allowed to attend the press conferences, and only members have access to the organizations’ officials. In return for endowing reporters with this privileged status, the officials take it for granted that their organizations will get favorable coverage. And very often they do.
在日本，政府和记者之间的正式关系是通过一系列记者俱乐部来维持的。各省、各地方政府、各政党、各行业协会都有一个记者俱乐部。俱乐部的会员资格仅面向大型媒体公司的记者。通常，只有俱乐部会员才能获准参加新闻发布会，而且只有会员才能接触相关官员。作为赋予记者这种特权地位的回报，官员们想当然地认为，他们的机构或部门将得到正面报道。很多时候也的确如此。
Another problem is that the media in Japan is not regulated by an independent agency. For example, it is the government itself — specifically the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications — that grants licenses to TV stations, and these are up for renewal regularly. Consequently, TV stations are under constant supervision and fear losing their right to operate if they challenge the government. Given Japan’s parliamentary system, this means that the ruling political parties themselves have a large influence over broadcasting.
另一个问题是，日本的媒体不是由一个独立机构进行监管的。比如，向电视台发放执照的正是政府自己，具体说就是总务省(Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications)，而执照又需要频繁续发。因此，电视台无时无刻不受到监督，害怕如果挑战政府，就会失去经营权。考虑到日本的议会制度，这意味着执政党本身对广播电视行业有很大的影响。
What’s more, there is virtually no separation of management and the newsroom at major media companies. A company’s chairman or president will often micromanage news coverage, or even the behavior of individual reporters. Few of them dare to challenge such intrusions because of the Japanese employment system: Historically, a job at a leading media company has meant security and a very high salary until retirement. Many journalists, recognizing that their bosses are obedient to the government and themselves eager to protect their own careers, hesitate to be critical of the government. Company loyalty trumps the professional ethics of independent journalism.
此外，在主要的媒体公司，管理和新闻业务实际上并未分离。一家公司的董事长或总裁常常会对新闻报道，乃至记者个人的行为进行微观管理。鲜有记者敢质疑这种干涉，原因是日本的用人制度：历史上，在知名媒体公司就职意味着可以一直享有安定的工作和高薪，直到退休。很多记者承认老板顺从政府，但渴望保护自己的事业的他们不愿批评政府。对公司的忠诚压倒了新闻独立方面的职业道德。
This system hardly is new. It has been in place since before World War II, and an independent agency regulating the media that was established by the Allied forces during the occupation was abolished in 1952 by Japanese conservatives. But recently the government has applied pressure on the media to an unprecedented extent. Under the Abe administration, the top executives of major media companies go out for fine meals or to play golf with the prime minister and high-ranking government officials. And they are unabashed about making this known to the public.
这个制度并不是新出现的。从二战以前开始，该制度就确立了。盟军在占领日本期间设立了一个独立的机构负责管理媒体，但1952年，该机构被日本的保守派撤销。近期，政府向媒体施压的情况达到了前所未有的程度。在安倍任内，主要媒体公司的高管或是与首相和政府高官出入高档餐厅，或是和他们打高尔夫。而且他们并不惧怕公众知道这些。