TOKYO — The police in Tokyo arrested a man suspected of murder on Tuesday, after parts of nine dismembered bodies were reportedly found in his apartment.
东京——东京警方周二逮捕了一名涉嫌谋杀的男子，据报道，警方在他的公寓里发现了九具尸体的肢解碎块。
The police said Takahiro Shiraishi, 27, admitted to killing a person, cutting up the body and putting parts in a cooler packed with cat litter. The name, age and gender of the victim have not been released.
警方说，27岁的白石隆浩(Takahiro Shiraishi)承认杀死了一人，把尸体切开，将一些部分放进了一个填充了猫砂的冷藏箱。警方尚未公布这名受害者的姓名、年龄和性别。
Mr. Shiraishi, who lived in Zama, southwest of Tokyo in Kanagawa Prefecture, was arrested on a charge of abandoning a body, but a murder charge was expected to follow.
白石隆浩住在东京西南神奈川县的座间市，警方以抛尸的罪名将他逮捕，但预计将会追加谋杀指控。
NHK, the Japanese public broadcaster, reported that the police had initially been investigating the disappearance of a 23-year-old woman who had posted a message online saying she was looking for someone to commit suicide with her.
据日本公共广播公司NHK报道，警方最初是在调查一名23岁女子失踪的案件，她曾在网上发布一条信息，称自己在寻找一个与她一起自杀的人。
Security camera footage from a nearby train station showed Mr. Shiraishi and the missing woman walking together, the Japanese news media reported.
这家日本新闻媒体报道说，来自附近火车站的监控录像显示，白石隆浩与失踪的女子在一起行走。
A search of Mr. Shiraishi’s apartment on Monday uncovered a cooler containing two heads, then further examination revealed parts of seven more bodies, NHK reported, citing a Tokyo Metropolitan Police source it did not identify. NHK said the bodies were of eight women and one man.
NHK援引东京警察厅一名信源的话说，周一对白石隆浩的公寓进行搜查时，发现了一个装有两个头颅的冷藏箱，进一步的检查发现箱中还装有另外七具尸体的碎块。NHK称，这些尸块来自八名女性和一名男性。
Kyodo News reported that a saw, believed to have been used to dismember the bodies, was also found in Mr. Shiraishi’s townhouse. He moved into the apartment two months ago, the newspaper Mainichi Shimbun reported. Neighbors noticed an unusual odor soon afterward, the Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper said.
据共同社报道，警方在白石隆浩居住的联排公寓里还找到一把被认为曾被用来肢解尸体的锯子。《每日新闻》报道称，白石隆浩两个月前才搬进这所公寓。那之后，邻居们很快就闻到了一种异常气味，《读卖新闻》报道说。
On Tuesday, a crowd of reporters gathered around the townhouse, which the police had blocked off with yellow tape.
周二，一群记者聚集在那栋联排公寓楼周围，警察已用黄色胶带将楼封锁。
Grisly crimes are rare in Japan, which has one of the lowest murder rates in the world. In 2014, it recorded 0.3 intentional homicides per 100,000 people, compared with 4.4 for the United States, according to World Bank data.
骇人听闻的罪行在日本很罕见，日本是世界上谋杀率最低的国家之一。据世界银行的数据，2014年，日本每10万人中只有0.3人被谋杀，而在美国，每10万人的谋杀死亡率是4.4人。
Crime has been steadily declining in recent years, and the police have been accused of overstaffing investigations into minor infractions because they lack things to do.
日本的犯罪率近年来一直在稳步下降，警方还曾被指控对轻微的违法行为进行过多的调查，因为他们无事可做。
Kanagawa Prefecture, with a population of nine million, has seen a handful of murder cases in recent years. In August, a man was arrested in connection with the murders of two Chinese sisters, 22 and 25, who worked in the city of Yokohama and whose bodies were found in suitcases in a rural area.
有900万人口的神奈川县，近年来只发生了几起谋杀案。今年8月，该县一名男子因涉嫌谋杀两名中国姐妹而被逮捕，警方在丢弃在农村地区的行李箱中发现了她们的尸体。两姐妹的年龄分别为22岁和25岁，她们曾在横滨市工作。
Last year, a man stabbed to death 19 people at a center for the disabled where he once worked, in the town of Sagamihara in Kanagawa Prefecture.
去年，在神奈川县的相模原市，一名男子在他曾经工作过的残疾人中心用刀砍死了19人。