TOKYO — Japan’s population shrank by nearly a million during the last half-decade, official census figures confirmed on Friday, an unprecedented drop for a society not ravaged by war or other deadly crisis, and one that helps explain the country’s persistent economic woes.
东京——上周五，日本官方人口普查数据证实，在过去五年中，该国人口减少了将近一百万。在一个并未遭到战争或其他重大危机破坏的社会，这样的人口减少是前所未有的。这有助于解释该国持续不断的经济问题。
It was the first time since Japan began collecting census data in 1920 that a nationwide count recorded a decline in the population, though surveys based on smaller samples have shown a downward trend for years.
自1920年代起，日本就开始在全国范围内收集人口普查数据，这是第一次记录得到人口减少的情况。但是多年以来，基于小样本的调查就已经显示，日本人口呈下降趋势。
The population stood at 127.1 million in 2015, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications said, down by 947,000, or 0.7 percent, compared with the last census in 2010.
日本总务省(Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications)表示，2015年该国人口为1.271亿，较2010年的上一次人口普查减少了94.7万人，降幅为0.7%。
A shrinking population creates ripples that are felt from the economy to politics.
从经济到政治，日本都感受到了人口减少的影响。
With one of the lowest birthrates in the world and little immigration, Japan has seen this inflection point coming for years, if not decades. Yet efforts by the government to encourage women to have more children have had little effect, and there is little public support for opening the doors to mass immigration.
日本是世界上生育率最低的国家之一，移民也很少。数年来，甚至数十年来，日本就已经预见到了这个拐点的出现。然而，政府鼓励女性多生孩子的努力收效甚微，而且打开大门、大规模吸纳移民的做法，也很难得到公众的支持。
“These numbers are like losing an entire prefecture,” Shigeru Ishiba, a cabinet minister in charge of efforts to revitalize Japan’s especially depopulated rural areas, said at a news conference. A handful of Japan’s 47 prefectures, administrative districts similar to provinces or states, have populations of less than a million.
“减少的人数相当于一整个县的人口，”内阁大臣石破茂(Shigeru Ishiba)在新闻发布会上说。他分管的工作是振兴人口减少特别严重的日本农村地区。日本共有47个都道府县，这些省级行政区域中，有若干个县人口不到一百万。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe responded to the census report by reiterating a long-term goal of keeping the population from falling below 100 million. Projections by the government and international bodies like the United Nations suggest that will be difficult, however. The latest United Nations estimates suggest that Japan’s population will fall to 83 million by the end of the century, down 40 percent from its peak.
在对普查报告进行回应时，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)重申了防止人口减少到1亿以下的长期目标。但是，从该国政府和联合国等国际机构进行的预测来看，这个目标很难达到。联合国的最新估计表明，到本世纪末，日本人口将下降到8300万，低于峰值的40%。
Mr. Abe’s goal depends on raising the birthrate to 1.8 children per woman, up from 1.4 now and higher than it has been since the early 1980s. Rates have, in fact, risen slightly compared with a decade ago. But with women marrying later — in part, demographers say, to avoid pressure to give up their careers — a more decisive turnaround looks far off.
安倍晋三的目标是，把生育率从现在的每名女性生育1.4个孩子提高到1.8个。自1980年代初以来，日本的女性生育率就没有达到过1.8。实际上与十年前相比，目前的生育率已经略有提升。但随着女性日益晚婚——人口学家说，部分原因是她们不想承受放弃事业的压力——更加彻底地扭转趋势似乎遥遥无期。
Japan will not necessarily suffer just because it is smaller. Many countries with fewer people are just as prosperous, and in a country known for jam-packed rush-hour trains, there may even be benefits. Japan’s economic output has been stagnant for years, but the picture looks less dire, economists say, once a shrinking work force is taken into account.
如果仅仅是人口减少，日本未必会变得衰败。很多国家的人口更少，但却同样繁荣兴旺。众所周知日本列车在高峰时段有多么拥挤不堪，对于这样一个国家来说，人口减少甚至可能会带来好处。经济学家说，日本经济总量的增长已停滞多年，但是如果把萎缩的劳动力考虑在内，经济状况看上去也不是那么糟糕。
The real problem, experts say, is less the size of the familiar “population pyramid” but its shape — in Japan’s case, it has changed. Because the low birthrate means each generation is smaller than the last, it has flipped on its head, with a bulging cohort of older Japanese at the top supported by a narrow base of young people.
专家说，用大家熟悉的“人口金字塔”来说，真正的问题不在于它的规模，而在于它的形状——在日本，“人口金字塔”的形状已经改变。生育率降低，意味着每一代人都比上一代人更少，因此“人口金字塔”上下翻转，出现了由底部的少量年轻人支撑顶部的大量老年人的状况。
One-quarter of Japanese are now over 65, and that percentage is expected to reach 40 percent by 2060. Pension and health care costs are growing even as the workers needed to pay for them become scarcer.
目前日本有四分之一的人口年龄在65岁以上，这一比例预计在2060年将达到40%，养老金和医疗费用正在日益增加，然而需要承担这些费用的就业人群却在减少。
The population is shrinking more in some places than others. The biggest cities, like Tokyo, are still growing, while rural areas struggle to cope with abandoned homes and shuttered shops. The imbalance has created political tensions: The most depopulated areas send three times as many representatives to Parliament, per capita, as urban ones do.
在一些地方，人口萎缩的现象比其他地方更为严重。在像东京这样的大都市，人口还在不断增加，而在农村地区，遗弃的房屋和关闭的商店令人头痛。这样的不平衡导致了政治紧张：按人均计算，人口最为稀少的地区派到国会的代表人数，是城市地区的三倍。
The Supreme Court has declared the situation unconstitutional, but Mr. Abe’s conservative governing party — which has strong support in the countryside — has dragged its feet on redrawing electoral districts.
日本最高法院已经宣布，这种情况违反宪法，但安倍晋三的保守派执政党从农村地区获得了强有力的支持，因而在重新划分选区方面动作迟缓。