TOKYO — Japan is on a roll. Its economy is growing at a robust 3.8 percent, the stock market is up by 40 percent this year, and the country is on the cusp of overcoming 15 years of deflation. Adding to the positive trend, Tokyo just won its bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics, raising hopes of an investment and construction boom.
东京——日本目前的发展势头十分强劲。其经济增长率高达3.8%，股市今年也上涨了40%，这个国家即将打破持续了15年之久的通货紧缩。此外还有一股正面驱动力，东京刚刚获得了2020年夏季奥林匹克运动会的主办权，有望藉此带来大量投资，并开启建筑产业的繁荣景象。
What could possibly go wrong?
那么，哪里会出问题呢？
A plan to raise taxes at the worst conceivable moment, economists warned.
经济学家警告，是在最不恰当的时机实施增税计划。
“It’s nonsense. Japan is only midway to recovery, and hasn’t fully escaped deflation,” said Goushi Kataoka, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting, which is affiliated with Japan’s largest bank, the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group.
“这简直是胡闹。日本正在恢复过程中，尚未完全脱离通货紧缩，”三菱UFJ研究和咨询公司(Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting)首席经济学家片冈刚士(Goushi Kataoka)说。该机构隶属日本最大的银行三菱UFJ金融集团(Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group)。
“Just as we are beginning to see the light, we’re threatening to snuff it out,” Mr. Kataoka said. “We’re trying to roasting the pig before it’s fat enough to eat.”
“我们才刚刚开始看到曙光，就想把它遮住，”片冈刚士说。“我们迫不及待地要在猪长肥之前把它给烤了。”
After weeks of debate, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe appears ready to go ahead with a plan to raise Japan’s national sales tax rate in April, to 8 percent from 5 percent — part of his bid to rein in the country’s rising public debt, which has surged to more than twice the size of its economy.
经过几周的讨论，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)似乎已经准备要在明年4月把日本的全国销售税由5%提高到8%——以此作为控制不断增加的国债的手段之一。目前，日本的国债已经暴增到了超过经济规模两倍的水平。
But opponents say that raising taxes on spending is premature, especially because it could damp consumer spending, considered the weakest link in Japan’s nascent recovery. If spending slumps, Japan could slide back into the deflationary morass that has dogged it for 15 years.
但是，反对者表示，现在还不是提高销售税的时候，因为消费是日本经济恢复过程中最薄弱的环节。如果消费减少，日本就会重新陷入困扰自己15年的通货紧缩泥潭。
Such a misstep threatens to bring down the curtain prematurely on Japan’s economic revival this year, led by Mr. Abe’s bold set of monetary and economic policies, called “Abenomics,” which has brought about one of the most unexpected turnarounds in recent years. Japan is now one of the most promising engines of growth this year among the world’s developed economies
这样的错误举动很可能会过早逆转日本经济复苏的形势。今年，安倍晋三推行了大胆的货币和经济政策，即所谓的“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)，使日本经济出人意料地出现了近年来最明显的好转态势。如今，日本已经成了世界发达经济体中最有希望的增长引擎之一。
Still, proponents of raising the tax are pushing for action now because they still fear a return to the dysfunction that has marred Japanese politics for several years through a succession of prime ministers, said Noah Smith, an assistant professor of finance at Stony Brook University.
然而，支持增税者仍在敦促政府立即行动。石溪大学(Stony Brook University)的金融学副教授诺亚·史密斯(Noah Smith)说，这是因为他们依然担心政治瘫痪的局面会再次出现，多年来经历了一连串首相更迭的日本政治一直受制于此。
Mr. Abe, with solid support, could be the last prime minister in a while to be able to push through unpopular reforms, he said. “The optimal policy is to wait to raise the consumption tax, maybe a year. But given Japan’s political dysfunction, many people are afraid that if you wait too long, that will never get done,” Mr. Smith said. “The idea is that if we see a chance to make unpopular structural reforms, we need to take it now, even though it’s not the optimal time.”
他说，拥有稳定支持的安倍晋三可能会成为一个时期以来最后一位有能力推行不受欢迎的改革的首相。“最理想的政策就是稍后再增加消费税，可能要等一年。但是由于日本政治运作不良，很多人都担心如果等待的时间太长，政策就将永远无法实施，”史密斯说。“也就是说，如果我们看到了一个能够推行不受欢迎的结构改革的机会，我们就要马上抓住它，虽然它不是最好的时机。”
To soften the blow, the Japanese government is considering putting together a stimulus package of as much as 5 trillion yen, a sum that would return the equivalent of 2 percentage points of the tax rate increase to consumers and companies, local news reports have said. Mr. Abe has said he will not a make an official decision on the matter until early October. Japan’s business lobby has also called on the government to slash the country’s relatively high corporate tax rates to make up for an anticipated drop in consumption.
为了减轻影响，日本政府正在考虑出台一项高达5万亿日元（约合3100亿元人民币）的刺激计划，当地新闻报道称，该政策将把相当于新增税率两个百分点的钱返还给消费者和企业。安倍晋三表示，他要到10月初才能就此做出正式决定。日本企业的游说团体还呼吁政府大幅度削减日本相对较高的企业税，以此来冲抵可能出现的消费减少的现象。
Speaking at a government panel on economic and fiscal policy on Friday, Mr. Abe suggested that Japan’s recovery was robust and its economy was already escaping deflation. He also said that both government and private sector spending ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Games would further bolster economic recovery.
安倍晋三周五在关于经济和财政政策的政府会议上表示，日本的恢复势头强劲，而且日本经济已将通货紧缩甩在身后。他还说，2020年东京奥运会之前，政府和私营部门的支出都将促进经济进一步恢复。
The Games “will be a catalyst that will clear away 15 years of deflation and shrinking,” he told the panel. He stressed he had made no decision on a tax increase yet.
奥运会“将会成为催化剂，消除持续了15年之久的通货紧缩和经济收缩状况”，他在会议上说。他强调自己尚未对增税作出决定。
Supporters of a higher sales tax, including Japan’s powerful Finance Ministry, say the move is necessary to rein in the country’s public debt. By all measures it is gargantuan, in large part because of the costs of caring for Japan’s increasing elderly population. Earlier this year, national debt topped 1 quadrillion yen, or $10 trillion, for the first time — more than twice the size of Japan’s economy, and larger than the economies of Germany, France and Britain combined.
赞成提高消费税的一方，包括手握重权的日本财务省，都认为这一举措对控制这个国家的公债是有必要的。无论以何种方式衡量，这笔债务都极其庞大，其中相当一部分是用于照料数量日益增多的老年人。今年早些时候，国债首次突破了1千万亿日元，即10万亿美元大关，相当于日本经济总量的两倍，比德国、法国和英国经济规模之和还要高。
The size of Japan’s debt worries many economists and investors, who say that any loss of confidence by markets in Japan’s fiscal sustainability — brought about, for example, by postponing plans to increase taxes — could cause a rise in interest rates that could cripple Japan’s ability to service its debt.
日本的债务规模令许多经济学家和投资人感到担忧，他们认为，一旦市场对日本财政的可持续性失去信心——诱因可能包括像消费税提升计划被搁置这样的消息——可能会促使利率提升，削弱日本的偿债能力。
Even supporters of a tax increase, however, acknowledge that a 3 percent rise in the consumption tax will not go very far in addressing Japan’s debt. It is expected to raise about 8 trillion yen annually in additional tax revenue. But it was still important to “at least give the appearance” that the country was doing something about its mounting obligations, Hajime Takata, chief economist of Mizuho Research Institute, said in a statement after he took part in the government’s forum earlier this month.
然而即便增税的支持者也明白，提升3%的消费税对日本的债务问题并不能构成太大的影响。预计它每年能额外带来8万亿日元的税收。但是瑞穗综研(Mizuho Research Institute)首席经济学家高田创(Hajime Takata)本月在参加政府研讨会之后发表声明称，“至少要表现出”正采取措施应对高负债问题的姿态。
“The reason we don’t see bonds issued by a government more than 1 quadrillion yen in debt go into nose-dive is because of an unspoken trust the Japanese people hold in Japanese bonds and its government,” he said. That trust, Mr. Takata warned, could be broken if Japan reneged on plans to start putting its finances in order by taking the tough step of raising the consumption tax.
“政府发行了超过1000万亿日元的债券，它们之所以没有暴跌，是因为日本人民对日本债券和政府有着心照不宣的信任，”他说。高田创警告，如果日本迟迟不愿采取措施，用提高消费税这样的强硬手段来恢复金融秩序，这种信心也是会崩塌的。
A second stage of the plan, laid out by the previous government of Yoshihiko Noda, would raise the rate to 10 percent in October 2015.
这项计划由前任首相野田佳彦的政府制定，在计划的第二阶段中，它将于2015年10月把税率提升到10%。
Public opinion has been divided. A survey of 1,658 voters published by the Asahi newspaper last month showed 43 percent of respondents in favor of initially raising the sales tax to 8 percent as planned, and 49 percent opposed.
公众对此存在分歧。《朝日新闻》(Asahi)上月公布的一项1658人参与的调查显示，43%的参与者赞同按计划将消费税初步提升到8%，49%的人反对。
Still, outside Japan, many of the world’s top economists are siding with opponents of the increase. 
尽管如此，日本以外的许多世界顶尖经济学家都站在了反对增税的一方。
The last time Japan raised its consumption tax, to 5 percent, from 3 percent, in April 1997, its economy soon plunged into recession. Retail sales rose significantly in the months before the tax increase, as consumers loaded their pantries and made big-ticket purchases, but plummeted in April and never quite recovered. Consumer prices, adjusted for the tax increase, plunged afterward and have hardly grown since.
日本上一次在1997年4月将消费税从3%提高到5%，经济很快陷入衰退。在增税前的几个月里，零售业出现惊人的增长，消费者把自家储藏室塞得满满的，购买了许多昂贵的商品，但是销售总额在4月就出现暴跌，自此再也没有彻底恢复。经过增税调整的消费价格此后急剧下跌，基本上没有再上涨过。
Still, Japan has something now that it didn’t have back then, said Nicholas Smith, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets: an aggressive central bank willing to do “whatever it takes” to prop up the economy should a higher sales tax start taking its toll. The aggressive action of Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan governor, has already helped the country’s current economic expansion.
然而里昂证券亚太区市场(CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets)策略师尼古拉斯·史密斯(Nicholas Smith)说，如今的日本有以前不具备的东西：一个有进取心的央行，万一增加消费税造成恶果，它会“竭尽全力”去扶持经济。日本银行总裁黑田东彦(Haruhiko Kuroda)的强硬举措已经对该国当前的经济增长起到了帮助作用。
A year ago, Mr. Smith wrote in a note published Friday, he was concerned that a consumption tax increase would kill growth. “Abenomics has changed that picture entirely,” he said.
在周一发表的一篇报告中，史密斯写道，一年前他还担心增加消费税会扼杀经济增长。“安倍经济学彻底扭转了局面，”他说。