TOKYO — Japanese safety regulators said on Tuesday that they had ordered automakers to move more quickly to repair defective airbags made by the Takata Corporation, saying that nearly half of the more than two million vehicles recalled in the country were still being driven.
东京——日本安全监管机构周二表示，已经要求汽车生产商更迅速地采取行动，修理高田公司(Takata Corporation)制造的问题气囊，称日本宣布召回的超过200万辆车中，将近一半仍然行驶在路上。
The Transport Ministry said that it had ordered 10 domestic and foreign automakers to speed up efforts to notify owners and fix their vehicles. Faulty airbags in the recalled models have been linked to at least five deaths outside Japan — four of them in the United States — and have led to congressional hearings in Washington.
日本国土交通省说，已经要求10家国内外汽车厂商加速通知车主并修复他们的车辆。在日本之外，已经有五人的死亡与被召回车型的问题气囊有关，其中四起死亡案例发生在美国。这些问题气囊还促使美国国会在华盛顿召开了听证会。
Akihiro Ohta, the transportation minister, said he had directed automakers to redouble efforts to notify owners of vehicles that are not yet repaired to alert them to the seriousness of the problem. The inflaters of Takata airbags can explode violently when they deploy, sending metal fragments shooting into the car.
日本交通大臣太田昭宏(Akihiro Ohta)说，他已经督促汽车厂商加倍努力，通知没有维修车辆的车主，提醒他们问题的严重性。高田气囊打开时，增压泵可能会爆裂，致使金属碎片飞入车中。
“The most important thing is to get all these cars fixed as soon as possible,” he told reporters after a cabinet meeting.
“当务之急是把所有的这些车辆尽快修好，”太田昭宏在内阁会议之后告诉记者。
The ministry also said it had ordered Honda, the biggest customer of Takata, which is based in Tokyo, to re-examine its past reporting of accidents related to all defects, not just airbags, to check for possible inaccuracies. That followed an acknowledgment by the automaker on Monday that it had underreported to United States regulators the number of deaths and injury claims linked to possible defects for more than 10 years.
国土交通省还说，已经责令高田最大的客户本田(Honda)研究过去与所有车辆缺陷（不光是气囊问题）有关的事故报告，确认可能存在的差错。此前，这家汽车公司周一承认，10多年来，它向美国监管部门汇报的可能与车辆缺陷有关的死亡和伤害索赔数量，比实际数字要少。
The ministry said that 58 percent of the 2.37 million vehicles subject to Takata airbag recalls in Japan had been repaired as of the end of September. An additional 175,000 vehicles have been recalled since then, but how many of those cars have been repaired is not known.
国土交通省称，截至9月末，日本国内受高田气囊问题影响召回的237万辆车中，58%已得到修复。那之后又召回了17.5万辆，但尚不清楚这些车中有多少已得到维修。
Automakers started recalling vehicles in Japan for the problem in 2009, though the bulk of the recalls have been issued since last year.
在日本，制造商因该问题召回汽车始于2009年，但去年才宣布大规模召回。
Worldwide, more than 14 million vehicles have been recalled over the airbag defect. Four incidents of ruptured Takata airbags have been recorded in Japan so far, according to the ministry’s records. No injuries in Japan have been reported.
在世界范围内，已有1400多万辆汽车因气囊缺陷被召回。国土交通省的数据显示，迄今为止，日本有记录的高田气囊破裂事故有四起。日本尚没有人员伤亡的报道。