TOKYO — In one of the clearest signals that Japan is trying to allay fears that it is whitewashing wartime atrocities — and to repair somewhat frayed relations with the United States — the foreign minister said on Tuesday that his government would not try to push revisions of that history.
东京——日本外相周二表示，其政府不会试图推动二战历史的修订，这是该国释放的最清晰的信号之一，表明日本试图减轻人们对其要粉饰战争暴行的担心，也表示日本想修补与美国的有些磨损的关系。
In an interview, the foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, distanced his government from far-right statements about World War II made recently by political associates of the conservative prime minister, Shinzo Abe, including denials of the sexual servitude of thousands of Korean, Chinese and other women. The statements outraged many in China and South Korea, and fed frustration in Washington, where officials say Mr. Abe has failed to distance his administration sufficiently from nationalist sentiments at a time when the region is already embroiled in dangerous territorial disputes.
日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)在一次采访中，将其政府与有关二战的极右派言论拉开距离，与保守派首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)有政治伙伴关系的极右派最近发表了一些关于二战的言论，包括否认数千名来自韩国、中国和其他国家的妇女曾做过慰安妇。这些言论惹怒了很多中国人和韩国人，华盛顿对其表示失望，美国官员称，在该地区局势已经受到危险的领土纠纷影响的时候，安倍晋三没能让其政府足够地远离民族主义情绪。
“The criticism about historical revisionism is coming because people who are not members of the government are making outlandish remarks, and these are then misunderstood as being the historical views of the Abe cabinet,” Mr. Kishida said. “This is unfortunate and regrettable.”
岸田文雄说，“有关历史修正主义的批评的出现，是因为政府之外的人说了些荒诞的话，而这些话被人们误解为是安倍晋三内阁的历史观点。这很不幸，也令人遗憾。”
He also restated the government’s intention to uphold apologies made by earlier Japanese leaders to Japan’s wartime and colonial-era victims.
他还重申，其政府有意坚持以前日本领导人作出的道歉，道歉针对的是日本二战和殖民时代的受害者。
“Prime Minister Abe and the Abe cabinet are firmly continuing the views on history, and the position on history of previous administrations,” he added. “We must face history, and be humble before it. This is a matter of course.”
他补充说，“安倍晋三首相和安倍内阁都坚定地维持对历史的看法、以及历届政府在历史问题上立场。我们必须面对历史，在历史前面保持谦逊。这是理所当然的。”
Mr. Kishida’s comments came as Japan and the United States have tried to show unity ahead of a visit here this month by President Obama meant to show American resolve to remain a leader in Asia, despite China’s growing influence. Japan will be the first stop for Mr. Obama, who will also visit South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines, all of which are in territorial disputes with China.
岸田文雄这番言论的发表是在日本和美国试图展示团结之际，美国总统奥巴马(President Obama)本月将访问日本，此次访问是为了显示美国维持其在亚洲的领导地位的决心，尽管中国的影响力不断增大。日本将是奥巴马亚洲行的第一站，他还将访问韩国、马来西亚和菲律宾，这些国家都与中国有领土主权纠纷。
In recent weeks, Japanese and American officials have been working to repair ties that were strained when Mr. Abe visited a controversial Tokyo war shrine in December, ignoring a personal request by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. not to go. The visit revived suspicions in Washington that Mr. Abe would return to past attempts to play down Japan’s wartime and colonial past.
最近几周，日、美官员一直在为修补两国关系而努力，日本和美国的关系，自从安倍晋三去年12月参拜了一个有争议的东京战争神社之后，陷入紧张状态，安倍晋三当时没有理睬美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)让其不要参拜的个人请求。参拜神社再次引起华盛顿对日本的猜疑，认为安倍晋三会重蹈淡化日本二战和殖民时代历史的覆辙。
That visit was followed by a series of revisionist comments by Mr. Abe’s associates, including one of his appointees to the governing board of the national broadcaster, NHK, who called the Tokyo war tribunal after World War II a “cover-up” of American atrocities like the 1945 firebombing of Tokyo.
参拜神社发生在安倍晋三的政治伙伴发出了一系列修正主义言论之后，发表言论者中包括一位安倍晋三任命的国有广播公司日本放送协会(NHK)的董事会成员，该人称二战后的东京战争法庭为美国暴行作“掩饰”，比如美国在1945年对东京进行的燃烧弹轰炸。
The chairman of NHK, Katsuto Momii, an acquaintance of Mr. Abe’s, also caused a furor in January for likening the so-called comfort women forced to work in wartime Japanese military brothels to prostitutes who worked voluntarily for money. Mr. Abe’s government stoked the outrage by saying it would re-examine the evidence used for a landmark 1993 apology to the women, known as the Kono Statement.
日本放送协会新会长籾井胜人(Katsuto Momii)与安倍晋三很熟，此人也曾在1月份引起群情激愤，他把那些战时在日本军队妓院被迫提供性服务的所谓慰安妇与自愿卖淫的妓女做类比。安倍晋三政府则给众怒火上浇油，称其将重新审查1993年向这些妇女道歉所依据的证据，那个具有里程碑意义的道歉被称为河野谈话(Kono Statement)。
More recently, however, the Abe government has tried to present a more moderate face. Last month, Mr. Abe distanced himself from ultranationalists — and his own past statements — by saying he would uphold the Kono Statement, which recognized that the comfort women were coerced into providing sex to Japanese soldiers. That opened the way for him to finally meet the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, in American-brokered talks late last month.
然而近来，安倍晋三政府试图拿出一种更为温和的姿态。上月，安倍晋三拉开了与极端民主主义者(以及自己过去的言论)的距离，表示他将坚持河野谈话所承认的、慰安妇是被迫为日本士兵提供性服务的声明。这为他铺平道路，终于在美国斡旋之下，于上月与韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)见了面。
Over the weekend, the Obama administration seemed to reciprocate by standing up for Japan against China, declaring that United States Navy ships would not join a multinational naval parade in the Chinese city of Qingdao after the Chinese refused to invite Japan. The move appeared to be an attempt to alleviate increasing anxiety in Japan that the United States might not come to its defense if China seized the disputed East China Sea islands.
上周末，奥巴马政府似乎对日本的表态做出了报答，在日本与中国的斗争中站在了日本一边，奥巴马政府宣布，美国海军船只将不会参加在中国青岛市举行的多国海军演习，因为中国拒绝邀请日本参加。此举似看来是为了减轻日本不断增长的担心，日本担心如果中国要强占东海中有争议的岛屿的话，美国可能不会帮助日本防卫。
In the interview, Mr. Kishida said that the Abe government would use the visit by Mr. Obama to showcase its efforts to strengthen Japan’s postwar security alliance with the United States, which maintains 50,000 military personnel at bases in the country. He said these accomplishments include the restarting of a long-stalled deal to relocate an air base on Okinawa, and the willingness to make painful political concessions necessary to negotiate a trans-Pacific trade deal that the Obama administration hopes will cement American regional leadership.
在这次采访中，岸田文雄表示，安倍晋三政府将利用奥巴马的来访，来展示其在二战后为加强日本与美国安全联盟所作的努力，美国在日本仍保留着5万名军事人员。他说，这些努力的成就包括，重新启动搁置已久的、有关冲绳岛上的一个美国空军基地搬迁问题的协议，以及愿意作出谈判所需的痛苦的政治让步，以达成一项跨太平洋贸易协议，奥巴马政府希望该协议将会巩固美国在区域中的领导地位。
However, he said reaching a deal on the pact, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, might prove too complicated to happen in time for Mr. Obama’s visit, although American negotiators are in Tokyo for last-minute talks.
但是他说，达成这项被称为跨太平洋伙伴关系协议(Trans -Pacific Partnership Agreement)的谈判可能过于复杂，也许不会在奥巴马访问之前完成，虽然美国的谈判人员已来到东京进行最后一刻的谈判。
Mr. Kishida also said emphasizing Japan’s contributions to the stability and prosperity of the region since the end of the war would be one of the best ways to combat the criticism that it is dabbling in revisionism.
岸田文雄还表示，强调日本在二战后为维护地区稳定和繁荣做出的贡献，是对那些指责日本在走向修正主义的批评的最好反驳。
“What our nation needs to do is show that it has accepted the past humbly, repeatedly expressed remorse and above all, walked a path of peace for 69 years,” Mr. Kishida said. “And we need to explain that there will be no change in these diplomatic policies in the future, either.”
他说，“我们的国家要做的是向人们展示，日本谦逊地接受了过去，不断地表示忏悔，而且最重要的是，日本已经在和平的道路上走了69年。我们需要说明，这些外交政策在未来也不会改变。”