SAPPORO, Japan — Takashi Uemura was 33 when he wrote the article that would make his career. Then an investigative reporter for The Asahi Shimbun, Japan’s second-largest newspaper, he examined whether the Imperial Army had forced women to work in military brothels during World War II. His report, under the headline, “Remembering Still Brings Tears,” was one of the first to tell the story of a former “comfort woman” from Korea.
日本札幌——植村隆(Takashi Uemura)在33岁那年写了一篇成就他职业生涯的文章。当时他在日本第二大报纸《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)担任调查记者，对日本帝国陆军(Imperial Army)是否在二战期间迫使女性在军妓所提供服务开展了研究。他发表的题为《回忆往事依然泪流满面》(Remembering Still Brings Tears)的文章是最早讲述一名朝鲜半岛“慰安妇”故事的报道之一。
Fast-forward a quarter century, and that article has made Mr. Uemura, now 56 and retired from journalism, a target of the Japanese political right. Tabloids brand him a traitor for disseminating “Korean lies.” Threats of violence, he says, have cost him one university teaching job, and could soon rob him of a second. Ultranationalists have even gone after his children, posting messages on the Internet urging people to drive his teenage daughter to suicide.
在过去将近25年后，这篇文章使得56岁的退休记者植村隆成为日本政坛右翼人士的攻击目标。一些小报称他散播“韩国人的谎言”，是叛徒。他表示，暴力威胁令他丢掉了一份在大学教课的工作，还可能很快让他丢掉第二份。极端民族主义者甚至把他的子女当做攻击目标，在网上散布信息，怂恿人们迫使她十几岁的女儿自杀。
The threats are part of a broad, vitriolic assault by the right-wing news media and politicians here on The Asahi, which has long been the newspaper that Japanese conservatives love to hate. This most recent campaign, however, has gone beyond anything postwar Japan has seen before, with nationalist politicians including Prime Minister Shinzo Abe unleashing a torrent of abuse that has cowed one of the last strongholds of progressive political influence in Japan. It has also emboldened revisionists calling for a reconsideration of the government’s 1993 apology for the wartime coercion of women into prostitution.
这些威胁只是日本右翼新闻媒体及政客对《朝日新闻》展开的大规模猛烈攻击的一部分。该报长期以来一直是日本保守派的眼中钉。不过，最近的攻击力度达到了日本战后以来的顶峰，包括首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在内的民族主义政客掀起了一股狂轰滥炸的热潮，令身为日本进步派政治圈最后根据地的该报噤若寒蝉。它还给意图篡改历史的那些人壮了胆，让他们敢于要求重新审核日本政府1993年为战时强迫女性提供性服务的行为所做的道歉。
“They are using intimidation as a way to deny history,” said Mr. Uemura, who spoke with a pleading urgency and came to an interview in this northern city with stacks of papers to defend himself. “They want to bully us into silence.”
“他们把威胁当作否定历史的手段，”植村隆恳切地说。“他们希望通过恫吓来迫使我们保持沉默。”在这座位于日本北部的城市，他带着一大叠文件来接受采访，为自己辩解。
“The War on The Asahi,” as commentators have called it, began in August when the newspaper bowed to public criticism and retracted at least a dozen articles published in the 1980s and early ’90s. Those articles cited a former soldier named Seiji Yoshida, who claimed to have helped abduct Korean women for the military brothels. Mr. Yoshida was discredited two decades ago, but the Japanese right pounced on The Asahi’s gesture and called for a boycott to drive the 135-year-old newspaper out of business.
这场始于今年8月的攻击被评论人士称为“对《朝日》的战争”。当时，该报在舆论的批评下撤回了上世纪80年代及90年代初发表的至少十几篇报道。这些文章引用了曾在军队服役的吉田清治(Seiji Yoshida)的证词。他声称自己曾参与绑架朝鲜半岛女性，并把她们送到军妓所。吉田清治在20年前就遭到了质疑，但日本右翼立即揪住了《朝日新闻》这次的举动，呼吁民众加以抵制，迫使这份已有135年历史的报纸停业。
Speaking to a parliamentary committee in October, Mr. Abe himself weighed in, saying The Asahi’s “mistaken reporting had caused many people injury, sorrow, pain and anger. It wounded Japan’s image.”
安倍晋三在今年10月加入了抨击的队伍。他对国会的一个委员会表示，《朝日新闻》的“错误报道让很多人感到受到伤害、难过、痛苦和愤怒。它损害了日本的形象。”
With elections this month, analysts say Japan’s conservatives are trying to hobble the nation’s leading left-of-center newspaper. The Asahi has long supported greater atonement for Japan’s wartime militarism and has opposed Mr. Abe on other issues. But it is increasingly isolated as the nation’s liberal opposition remains in disarray after a crushing defeat at the polls two years ago.
分析人士称，随着本月选举的临近，日本保守派正在设法打压日本主要的中左翼报纸。《朝日新闻》一直支持日本在更大程度上为战时军国主义赎罪，还在其他问题上与安倍晋三唱反调。推崇自由主义的反对党在两年前的大选中遭遇惨败，此后一蹶不振，《朝日新闻》也日益受到孤立。
Mr. Abe and his political allies have also seized on The Asahi’s woes as a long-awaited chance to go after bigger game: the now internationally accepted view that the Japanese military coerced tens of thousands of Korean and other non-Japanese women into sexual slavery during the war.
《朝日新闻》此番遭遇困境，安倍晋三及其政治盟友还利用这个期待已久的机会来努力赢得更大的目标：推翻目前已为国际社会公认的观点——日本军队在战争期间强制数以万计来自朝鲜半岛等地的非日籍女性充当性奴。
Most mainstream historians agree that the Imperial Army treated women in conquered territories as spoils of battle, rounding them up to work in a system of military-run brothels known as comfort stations that stretched from China to the South Pacific. Many women were deceived with offers of jobs in factories and hospitals and then forced to provide sex for imperial soldiers upon arriving in the comfort stations. In Southeast Asia, there is evidence that Japanese soldiers simply kidnapped women to work in the brothels.
大多数主流历史学者一致认为，日本帝国陆军把占领地区的女性当做战利品，将她们聚集到名为“慰安所”的军队妓院工作。从中国到南太平洋，到处都有这种慰安所。很多女性受到了欺骗，以为自己将前往工厂和医院工作，然而一旦来到慰安所，就不得不为日本军人提供性服务。东南亚有证据表明，日军曾干脆绑架女性，强迫她们在妓院工作。
Among the women who have come forward to say they were forced to have sex with soldiers were Chinese, Koreans and Filipinos, as well as Dutch women captured in Indonesia, then a Dutch colony.
那些站出来表明自己曾被迫与日本军人发生性关系的女性来自中国、朝鲜半岛、菲律宾，以及荷兰。这些荷兰女性是在当时还为荷兰殖民地的印度尼西亚被抓的。
But there is little evidence that the Japanese military abducted or was directly involved in entrapping women in Korea, which had been a Japanese colony for decades when the war began. The revisionists have seized on this one fact to deny that any women were held captive in sexual slavery, and to argue that the comfort women were simply camp-following prostitutes out to make good money. In their view, Japan is the victim of a smear campaign orchestrated by South Korea to settle old scores.
不过，没有多少证据表明日本军队曾在朝鲜半岛绑架女性或直接参与诱拐她们的活动。战争爆发时，该地已被日本殖民了数十年。企图篡改历史的那批人抓住这一项事实，以此来否认曾有任何女性被抓起来充当性奴，并辩称，那些慰安妇不过是想挣钱的随军妓女。在他们看来，日本是韩国为了报旧仇而组织的诽谤宣传的受害者。
For scholars of the comfort women issue, the surprise was not The Asahi’s conclusion that Mr. Yoshida had lied — the newspaper acknowledged in 1997 that it could not verify his account — but that it waited so long to issue a formal retraction. Employees at the newspaper said it finally acted because members of the Abe government had been using the articles to criticize The Asahi’s reporters, and it hoped to blunt the attacks by setting the record straight.
在研究慰安妇问题的学者眼中，令人惊讶的不是《朝日新闻》做出了吉田清治撒谎的结论——该报于1997年承认无法证实他的说法——而是它等了这么久才正式撤回报道。《朝日新闻》的员工称，报社之所以最终采取行动，是因为安倍政府的成员一直在利用这批文章来批判报社的记者，而报社希望能通过纠正错误来让攻击平息。
Instead, the move prompted a storm of denunciations and gave the revisionists a new opening to promote their version of history. They are also pressing a claim that has left foreign experts scratching their heads in disbelief: that The Asahi alone is to blame for persuading the world that the comfort women were victims of coercion.
正相反，此举引发了大量谴责，而且给意图篡改历史的人提供了一个宣传他们心中的历史版本的新机会。他们还在大力鼓吹一个让外国专家难以置信的说法：让全世界认为慰安妇是强迫行为的受害者，唯一要怪的就是《朝日新闻》。
Though dozens of women have come forward with testimony about their ordeals, the Japanese right contends it was The Asahi’s reporting that resulted in international condemnation of Japan, including a 2007 resolution by the United States House of Representatives calling on Japan to make “a clear and unequivocal” apology for “one of the largest cases of human trafficking in the 20th century.”
尽管有不下数十名女性出面作证，讲述自己的不幸遭遇，但日本右翼仍然声称，正是因为《朝日新闻》的报道，国际社会才会对日本加以谴责，其中包括美国众议院2007年通过的一项决议。该决议要求日本对“20世纪规模最大的人口贩卖活动之一”进行“清晰而明确的”道歉。
For Mr. Abe and his allies, humbling The Asahi is also a way to advance their long-held agenda of erasing portrayals of Imperial Japan they consider too negative and, analysts say, eventually overturning the landmark 1993 apology to comfort women. Many on the right have argued that Japan behaved no worse than other World War II combatants, including the United States.
对于安倍晋三和他的盟友而言，击垮《朝日新闻》也是为了推进他们计划已久的一项议程——抹除他们认为的对大日本帝国过于负面的描述。分析人士称，他们还计划最终推翻1993年对慰安妇所做的具有里程碑意义的道歉。许多右翼人士辩称，日本的行为并不比其他二战参与国更糟糕，美国也包括在内。
Hokusei Gakuen University, a small Christian college in northern Japan where Mr. Uemura lectures on local culture and history, said it was reviewing his contract because of bomb threats by ultranationalists. On a recent afternoon, some of Mr. Uemura’s supporters gathered in a chapel on campus to hear a sermon warning against repeating the mistakes of the dark years before the war, when the nation trampled dissent in its march toward militarism.
植村隆目前在位于日本北部的小型基督教学院北星学园大学(Hokusei Gakuen University)教授地方文化和历史。该校表示，正在重新审核与植村隆的合约，因为有极端民族主义者威胁要对学校投掷炸弹。不久前的一个下午，植村隆的一些支持者聚集在校园里的一个礼拜堂聆听训诫。教士警告人们，不要重蹈战前黑暗年代的覆辙。那时候，日本不顾异议，一心走上了军国主义的道路。