TOKYO — Japan will re-examine a landmark apology it made two decades ago to women forced to work in Japanese wartime military brothels, a government spokesman said on Friday, in a move that could further outrage South Korea, where many of the women came from.
东京——一名日本政府发言人周五说，日本将重新审视20年前发表的一份具有里程碑意义的道歉声明。这份声明针对的是被迫在日本战时军营妓院服务的女性，其中许多女性来自韩国。日本此举可能进一步激怒韩国。
The spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary, said a team of scholars would examine what historical evidence had been used in composing the apology, known as the Kono Statement. The statement, issued in 1993 by the chief cabinet secretary at the time, Yohei Kono, acknowledged for the first time that the Imperial military had been at least indirectly involved in coercing those known euphemistically as “comfort women” to provide sex to Japanese soldiers during World War II.
这名发言人、日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说，一个学者团队将调查起草这份声明时所使用的历史证据。该声明于1993年由时任内阁官房长官河野洋平(Yohei Kono)发表，也被称为河野谈话(Kono Statement)。声明首次承认日本的帝国军队至少间接参与了强迫“慰安妇”在二战期间为日本士兵提供性服务的活动。“慰安妇”是日本对这些妇女的委婉称呼。
Mr. Suga did not say whether the inquiry could possibly lead to a scrapping of the statement, an action that would most likely draw an explosive reaction from South Korea, where the women are seen as an emotionally potent symbol of their nation’s brutal early-20th-century colonization by Japan.
菅义伟没有表示这次调查是否可能导致该声明被废除。废除这一声明极有可能引发韩国的强烈反应。在韩国，“慰安妇”是一个极具情感煽动力的话题，被视作20世纪早期日本对韩国残暴殖民统治的一个象征。
It was also unclear whether Mr. Suga was offering to form the team simply as a way to deflect pressure from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s supporters in the political far right. They have argued that the statement should be scrapped because, they say, there is insufficient objective evidence supporting the testimony of the women that the Japanese military forced them to provide sex. (Most scholars reject that, saying the military was at least indirectly complicit because it allowed the brothels to operate.)
目前也还不清楚菅义伟的说法是否只是为了转移首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的极右翼支持者施加的压力。这些人认为，由于没有足够客观依据能够支持这些妇女的证词，即日本军方曾强迫她们提供性服务，应该废除这一声明。（大多数学者反驳了这种观点，称由于军方允许这些妓院运营，它至少间接参与了此事。）
Officials in the Abe administration have said that Mr. Suga does not support discarding the statement because he is well aware that such a move would be condemned in nations like the United States, which view the matter as a human rights issue.
安倍内阁的官员们说，菅义伟并不支持废除道歉声明，因为他非常清楚，这样的举动会受到美国等国家的谴责，后者将该问题视为人权问题。
Whatever the intent, forming the team of scholars may stir anger from the United States, which has been frustrated by the inability of its two Asian allies to work together to offset the growing strength of China. Visiting American officials have repeatedly urged Mr. Abe, an outspoken conservative, not to engage in historical revisionism that might isolate Japan in the region.
无论出于何种目的，组建一支学者团队的做法都可能会点燃美国的愤怒，美国已经因为两个亚洲盟友无法共同制衡中国日益增长的实力而感到失望。美国官员在访日期间曾多次敦促口无遮拦的保守派安倍晋三，不要采取粉饰历史的做法，这可能会让日本在该地区陷入孤立。
For many Koreans, the push by Japanese rightists is seen as proof of a lack of remorse over treatment of the wartime brothel workers and other victims of Japan’s colonization of the Korean Peninsula. South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, has refused even to meet with Mr. Abe until Japan shows more contrition on the issue.
许多韩国人认为，日本右翼的行动证明其在对待慰安妇和其他日本对朝鲜半岛殖民统治的受害者问题上缺乏悔意。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)甚至拒绝与安倍会晤，除非日本在这一问题上表现出更多忏悔。
Friday’s move may also lead to renewed concerns in Washington and elsewhere that Mr. Abe, who struck a pragmatic tone in his first year in office, may be reverting to his earlier nationalistic agenda of challenging what he calls masochistic views of Japan’s wartime history. In recent days, his government has faced growing calls from right-wing lawmakers in Parliament to revisit the Kono Statement. Analysts say they appear to have been encouraged to speak out by Mr. Abe’s visit in December to a contentious Tokyo war shrine.
周五的举动可能也会让华盛顿和其他国家政府再次陷入担忧，即安倍晋三可能会回归早些时候的民族主义路线，挑战他所谓的对日本战时历史的受虐狂式观点。安倍上台后第一年保持了实用主义的作风。近日以来，安倍政府一直面临着右翼议员日益强烈的呼吁，要求重新讨论河野谈话。分析人士说，安倍12月份参拜了东京一处饱受争议的战争神社，这似乎让他们受到了鼓舞，使其更加直言不讳。
Recently, nationalist lawmakers have demanded that the government look into whether the Kono Statement was based on inadequate evidence. A former official who helped draft it was called in to testify that the main evidence was the testimony of 16 former sex slaves and that no documents were found to collaborate their stories.
最近，民族主义议员曾要求政府调查河野谈话的证据是否充分。参与起草河野谈话的一名前官员被找到，以证明河野谈话的主要依据是16名前慰安妇的证词，没有发现任何文件可以支持她们的说法。
That testimony seemed to confirm the position of the lawmakers, who have questioned the women’s testimonies, accusing them of being politically motivated. They say the women were not coerced but were prostitutes who worked in the brothels to earn money.
上述证词似乎证明了议员们的观点。这些议员质疑这些妇女的证词，指责她们存有政治动机。他们说，这些妇女没有受到胁迫，她们是为了赚钱才去妓院工作的妓女。
On Friday, Mr. Suga appeared to bow to that pressure, saying that a team of researchers would be assembled to look into the statement. He said the team would work in secret, apparently to avoid political interference.
菅义伟周五似乎屈从了压力，表示将组织一个研究人员团队来调查这一声明。他说这个团队将秘密开展工作，这明显是为了避免政治干预。
“We’d like to launch a team to re-examine and understand the background” of the statement, Mr. Suga told a parliamentary budget committee. “It will be extremely difficult, but it’s important to review and see what the situation was.”
菅义伟告诉议会的预算委员会，“我们将组建一个团队，重新审视和了解事件背景。这将极其艰难，不过，重新审核并弄清楚当时的真相是重要的。”
The issue began to receive international attention in the early 1990s as hundreds of the wartime brothel workers began to speak out about what had happened to them a half-century earlier.
上世纪90年代初，随着数百名战时妓院工作者公开自己半个世纪前的遭遇，这一问题开始引发国际关注。
Scholars say that tens of thousands of Korean and other women worked in Japanese military brothels, and many of the survivors, now in their 80s and 90s, say they were tricked or coerced into laboring in wretched conditions that left them sterile for the rest of their lives.
学者们说，数万名朝鲜及其他国家女性在日本战时的军营妓院工作，许多幸存者目前已经八九十岁，她们说，自己被诱骗或强迫在恶劣环境下工作，导致她们此后无法生育。