Japan will not revise a landmark apology to women forced to work in military brothels during World War II even as it moves ahead with a review of the testimony used to create that apology, a Japanese spokesman said Monday.
日本的一名发言人在周一表示，日本不会修改对二战期间被迫在军队妓院服务的女性做出的具有里程碑意义的道歉声明，即便该国已经开始重新审核声明所依据的证词。
Yoshihide Suga, the chief cabinet secretary, told reporters that the conservative government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had no intention of changing the 1993 apology, called the Kono Statement. The apology admitted for the first time that the Imperial military played at least an indirect role in forcing the women, known euphemistically as “comfort women,” to provide sex to Japanese soldiers.
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)告诉记者，安倍晋三首相(Shinzo Abe)领导的保守派政府无意修改1993年发表的道歉声明，即河野谈话(Kono Statement)。该道歉声明首次承认，日本皇军至少间接参与了强迫“慰安妇”为日本士兵提供性服务的活动。“慰安妇”是对这些女性的委婉称呼。
Mr. Suga was responding to rising criticism from South Korea, a former Japanese colony where many of the women came from, of an announcement made two weeks ago by Mr. Suga that the government would review evidence used to support the apology. At that time, Mr. Suga said the government would form a panel of experts to review the evidence used to back up the statement, mostly testimony made two decades ago by 16 aging former sex slaves.
菅义伟的此番言论是为了回应韩国方面的批评。两周前，他曾宣布，日本政府将重新审核道歉声明所依赖的证据。这引发了韩国的强烈批评，因为很多慰安妇来自这个前日本殖民地。当时，菅义伟表示，日本政府将成立一个专家小组，重新审核支撑该声明的证据。相关证据大部分是16名年长的前慰安妇20年前提供的证词。
Mr. Suga announced the review under pressure from nationalist lawmakers who denounced the 1993 apology as the product of a Korean-led campaign to defame Japan, saying the women were just common prostitutes working for money. South Korean officials and some analysts warned that Mr. Abe, who before becoming prime minister had also publicly doubted whether the women had been coerced, might be moving to scrap the apology.
迫于民族主义议员的压力，菅义伟宣布进行重新审核。这些议员谴责“河野谈话”是韩国引领的诽谤日本的行动的结果，称那些女性只是想要挣钱的普通妓女。韩国领导人及一些分析人士警告称，安倍晋三在担任首相之前，也曾公开质疑这些女性是否受到逼迫，他或许会采取措施，废除道歉声明。
South Korea reacted strongly, with its foreign minister, Yun Byung-se, saying at a United Nations human rights meeting last week that Japan was insulting “the honor and dignity of the victims.” The move also brought expressions of concern from the United States, which has watched with growing alarm as frictions over history have divided Japan and South Korea, its two top Asian allies.
韩国做出了强烈回应，其外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)上周在联合国人权会议上表示，日本是在侮辱“受害者的名誉与尊严”。此举还促使美国表达了担忧之情，看到历史纷争致使其两大亚洲盟友——日本和韩国产生分歧，这让美国愈发担心。
However, other analysts said the review could just be a political ploy aimed at appeasing Mr. Abe’s right-wing supporters without actually changing Japanese policy. On Monday, Mr. Suga seemed to suggest as much, saying the review would be carried out in secret and would not alter the apology.
然而，其他分析人士表示，审核之举可能只是一个政治策略，旨在安抚安倍晋三的右翼支持者，而不会真正改变日本的政策。周一，菅义伟似乎也做出了相关暗示，称日本将会秘密进行重新审核，而且不会修改道歉声明。
“We have no intention to rethink the Kono Statement,” he told a regular news conference. The statement was named after the chief cabinet secretary at the time, Yohei Kono, who released it.
他在例行新闻发布会上表示，“我们不打算重新考虑河野谈话。”该声明由时任内阁官房长官的河野洋平(Yohei Kono)发表，因而以他的名字命名。