In Tokyo this weekend, the sumo wrestler Kotoshogiku won the first of the year’s six top-level tournaments. The result was big news because of his nationality: Japanese.
上周末，相扑力士琴奖菊和弘(Kotoshogiku)在东京摘得了今年六个顶级锦标赛中的第一个冠军。这个结果在日本成为一个大事件，皆因他的国籍是：日本。
Since the 1990s, foreigners have come to dominate the top level of sumo, Japan’s national sport. Though there are six two-week top-tier tournaments, or honbasho, every year, Kotoshogiku’s victory on Sunday was the first for a Japanese wrestler in 10 years. Over the past decade, tournaments have been won by a host of Mongolians, but also a Bulgarian and an Estonian, creating an identity crisis among fans and officials of the sport, which has roots that date back centuries.
自上世纪90年代以来，外国人开始占据顶级相扑比赛的舞台，而这本是日本的民族体育项目。尽管日本每年举办六次为期两周的顶级相扑大赛，或称“相扑场”(honbasho)，但琴奖菊和弘在周日得冠，却是十年来日本相扑力士首次获胜。过去十年，日本相扑锦标赛的冠军有不少是蒙古人，也曾有过一个保加利亚人和一个爱沙尼亚人夺冠，让这项有几百年历史的运动的爱好者和官员产生了一种身份危机。
A sport that seems to embody Japan got its first foreign-born champion in 1972 when Jesse Kuhaulua, a Hawaiian known by the sumo name Takamiyama, won the Nagoya event.
1972年，作为日本象征的相扑运动中诞生了第一位外籍冠军，当时夏威夷人杰西·库豪卢阿(Jesse Kuhaulua)——在相扑中用的名号是高见山大五郎(Takamiyama)——赢得了名古屋“相扑场”的冠军。
The first true foreign-born superstar was Chad Rowan, a Hawaiian known as Akebono. Rowan, a 6-foot-8, 450-pounder, was the first foreigner to be named yokozuna, the sport’s highest rank. Yokozuna cannot be demoted, and only a handful of wrestlers hold the title at the same time, so being appointed one by sumo’s council of elders is considered a high honor as well as a ticket to fame and riches.
第一位真正的外籍相扑明星是查德·罗恩(Chad Rowan)，也是夏威夷人，名号是曙太郎(Akebono)。罗恩身高六英尺八英寸（约合2米），体重450磅（约合408斤），是第一个获得相扑最高级别称号“横纲”的外国力士。一名相扑力士一旦成为横纲，便不会被降级，同一时间只有一小部分相扑力士可以拥有这一称号，所以被审议委员会评定为横纲是一种至高的荣誉，同时也是一张让人名利双收的门票。
Akebono’s rivalry with the Japanese brothers Takanohana and Wakanohana, two other yokozuna, sparked the sport in the 1990s.
曙太郎与另两位横纲力士——日本的贵乃花(Takanohana)和若乃花(Wakanohana)兄弟——之间的比赛，点燃了1990年代的相扑运动场。
But when the wave of stars from Mongolia — which has its own rich wrestling tradition — came into the sport around the turn of the century, there were few Japanese who could challenge them.
但随着蒙古相扑明星潮在世纪之交涌现，很少再有日本相扑力士能与之抗衡。蒙古也有其悠久的摔跤传统。
The first great Mongolian, Asashoryu, won 25 top-level tournaments, but ruffled feathers in Japan, as several of the foreigners have, for behavior seen as not in keeping with sumo tradition. Celebrating excessively (or indeed at all), for example, is considered a violation of the sport’s strict decorum.
第一位重要的蒙古相扑明星是朝青龙(Asashoryu)，曾赢得25次顶级赛事的冠军，但他和另外几位外国人一样，在日本制造了一些争议，因为他们的一些行为被看作违背了相扑传统。比如，大肆庆祝胜利（或者根本就是庆祝这个行为本身）就被认为是和这项运动的庄重不符的。
Despite this code, the sport has recently had its share of scandals, including allegations of match fixing.
尽管有这类严格的规范，但相扑运动最近也开始出现丑闻，包括被指非法操纵比赛结果。
The current Michael Jordan of sumo is Hakuho, a Mongolian who has won 35 tournaments over the past 10 years, breaking the record of the 1960s Japanese great Taiho.
目前相扑界的迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)是白鹏(Hakuho)，这位蒙古力士在过去10年共赢得35次冠军，打破了伟大的日本相扑力士大鹏(Taiho)在上世纪60年代的纪录。
A honbasho consist of 15 matches, and both Hakuho and Kotoshogiku were 10-0 going into their 11th bouts last Wednesday. After the ritual purification of the ring with salt, the much-anticipated match, like most sumo bouts, was over in seconds. Kotoshogiku seized the initiative, pushing Hakuho back and out of the ring.
一次“相扑场”包含15场比赛，上周三白鹏和琴奖菊和弘都以前10场全胜的战绩进入自己的第11场比赛。完成在场地上撒盐的净化仪式之后，这场备受期待的比赛只持续了几秒钟就结束了——就像大多数相扑力士对阵一样。琴奖菊和弘抢得先机，将白鹏反推至场外。
Kotoshogiku finished the tournament 14-1 to win the title, while Hakuho wound up 12-3 and tied for second with another Mongolian star, Harumafuji.
最终，琴奖菊和弘以14胜1负的成绩赢得这次比赛的胜利，而白鹏以12胜3负的成绩，与另外一名蒙古相扑明星日马富士(Harumafuji)并列第二。
The rising popularity of other sports with the younger generation, who see sumo as old-fashioned, has been blamed for the dearth of Japanese sumo stars. Soccer, for instance, has grown in popularity, while television ratings for baseball and sumo have slumped.
年轻一代日本人认为相扑是过时的运动，他们越来越喜爱其他运动项目，这被认为是日本相扑明星匮乏的原因。比如，足球在日本越来越受欢迎，而棒球和相扑比赛的电视收视率则大幅下降。
The drought is reminiscent of those at other nationally iconic events like the Tour de France (no French winner since 1985) and Wimbledon (no British women’s winner since 1977, and just one British men’s winner since 1936).
这种窘况也让人想起其他国家标志性运动的类似遭遇，比如环法自行车赛（自1985年以来不曾有法国人拿冠军）和温布尔登网球锦标赛（自1977年以来没有英国女选手赢得冠军，自1936年以来只有一名英国男选手夺冠）。
Was Kotoshogiku’s victory a passing of the torch to a new generation of Japanese stars? Perhaps not. Kotoshogiku celebrated his first top-level win Sunday at age 31, while Hakuho, with his 34 wins, is still only 30.
琴奖菊和弘的胜利代表着这项运动的火炬传到了新一代日本明星手中吗？或许并非如此。周日第一次斩获相扑场桂冠的琴奖菊和弘，年龄是31岁，而已经34次问鼎冠军的白鹏，今年只有30岁。
There are five more tournaments this year, and a nation of sumo fans will be hoping Kotoshogiku is not a one-hit wonder.
今年还有五场锦标赛，整个日本的相扑爱好者们都在期待琴奖菊和弘不是昙花一现。