To all the perks afforded the leader of the free world, add this one: Within about 90 minutes of arriving in Tokyo on Wednesday, President Obama sat down for a meal prepared by an octogenarian sushi chef whom some regard as the master of all masters.
身为自由世界的领导人所能获得的种种好处，现在又新增了一条：在周三抵达东京后还不到一个半小时，奥巴马总统就受到了一名年过八旬的寿司大厨的晚餐款待，而这位大厨被不少人奉为最伟大的寿司工艺大师。
The chef, Jiro Ono, was the subject of a critically acclaimed documentary film, “Jiro Dreams of Sushi,” by the director David Gelb, which was featured at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival, among other events. It follows Mr. Ono as he “pursues his lifelong quest to create the perfect piece of sushi” and features his eldest son, Yoshikazu, as he “faces the pressures of stepping into his father’s shoes,” according to the film website IMDB.com. The movie is available for streaming on Netflix.
他就是小野二郎(Jiro Ono)，纪录片《寿司之神》(Jiro Dreams of Sushi)的主角。该片受到评论界的广泛赞誉，由大卫·贾柏(David Gelb)执导，并在翠贝卡电影节(Tribeca Film Festival)等场合正式放映。根据电影网站IMDB.com的介绍，片中记录了小野“毕生追求创造完美寿司的历程”，同时以他的大儿子祯一(Yoshikazu)为主角，展现他“追随父亲脚步时所要面对的重重压力”。这部片子可以通过Netflix在线观看。
The restaurant, Sukiyabashi Jiro, is situated in a tiny space in a subway station in the downtown Ginza district, with seating for just 10 people. It is one of about 100 restaurants in the world to have earned a top rating of three stars from the Michelin Guide. There is no menu, and dishes are selected by Mr. Ono, with a meal costing about $300 a person.
小野的寿司店“数寄屋桥次郎”(Sukiyabashi Jiro)在东京市中心银座地区一个地铁站的狭小空间里，仅能容纳10人。全世界共有约100家餐厅被《米其林指南》(Michelin Guide)评为最高级别的三星，这家店就跻身其中。它没有菜单，所有菜品由小野本人选定，一餐的消费为每人3万日元（约合1800元人民币）。
Mr. Obama scored his spot at the invitation of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who joined him for dinner along with the United States ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, and Mr. Obama’s national security adviser, Susan E. Rice.
在日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的邀请之下，奥巴马得以与他在此共进晚餐。陪同的还有美国驻日本大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)，以及奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)。
It was a notably informal setting; neither leader wore a tie. Emerging from the restaurant after an hour and a half, Mr. Obama’s review was brief and surely understated. “That’s some good sushi right there,” he said.
这一餐采用了非常随意的形式；两位领导人均未打领带。一个半小时后，奥巴马从寿司店出来，做出了明显保守的简短评价。“那里的寿司很好，”他说。
Mr. Obama was apparently more effusive in comments he made to Mr. Abe. Speaking to NHK, Japan’s national public broadcaster, after the meal, Mr. Abe said, “President Obama told me that, ‘I was born in Hawaii and ate a lot of sushi, but this was the best sushi I’ve ever had in my life.’ ”
奥巴马对安倍首相所说的话显然更为热情。餐后，安倍晋三接受日本国家公共传播机构NHK采访时称，“奥巴马总统告诉我，‘我在夏威夷出生，吃过很多寿司，不过这次是我一生中品尝过的最棒的寿司。’”
The experience may be hard to match as Mr. Obama travels on to South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines. No restaurants in those countries have earned a Michelin Guide rating.
继续韩国、马来西亚和菲律宾之行的时候，奥巴马将很难再享受到与之匹敌的体验。这几个国家均没有任何餐厅赢得过《米其林指南》的星级评价。