TOKYO — It was an unexpected act of protest that shook Japan’s carefully managed media world: Shigeaki Koga, a regular television commentator and fierce critic of the political establishment, abruptly departed from the scripted conversation during a live TV news program to announce that this would be his last day on the show because, as he put it, network executives had succumbed to political pressure for his removal.
东京——一次出人意料的抗议之举震动了日本受到严格管理的媒体行业：在一场新闻直播节目中，定期露面的电视评论员、政府的激烈批评者古贺茂名(Shigeaki Koga)，突然抛开了对话的文稿，宣布这是他最后一次参与该节目，他说，这是因为高管屈从于政治压力，要解除与自己的关系。
“I have suffered intense bashing by the prime minister’s office,” Mr. Koga told his visibly flabbergasted host late last month, saying he had been removed as commentator because of critical statements he had made about Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Later in the program, Mr. Koga held up a sign that read “I am not Abe,” a play on the slogan of solidarity for journalists slain in January at a French satirical newspaper.
“我遭到了首相办公室的强烈打压，”上月末，古贺茂名对明显已是目瞪口呆的主持人说。古贺茂名表示，由于自己对首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的批评性言论，他已经失去了评论员的工作。在后来的节目中，古贺茂名举起了一个标语，上面写着：“我不是安倍”。其灵感来自于法国一家讽刺报纸的多名记者1月份遭枪击之后的一条声援性标语。
The outburst created a public firestorm, and not only because of the spectacle of Mr. Koga, a dour-faced former top government official, seemingly throwing away his career as a television commentator in front of millions of viewers. His angry show of defiance also focused national attention on the right-leaning government’s increased strong-arming of the news media to reduce critical coverage.
他的这次情绪爆发引起了轩然大波，而这不光是因为古贺茂名制造的这出闹剧。这个看起来总是闷闷不乐的前高级政府官员，似乎是在数百万观众面前毁掉了自己作为电视评论员的职业生涯。他在愤怒中展示出的桀骜不驯，也让日本民众把关注焦点集中在了右倾政府为减少批评性报道而对新闻媒体采取的强硬手段上。
Many journalists and political experts say the Abe government is trying to engineer a fundamental shift in the balance of power between his administration and the news media, using tactics to silence criticism that go beyond anything his predecessors tried and that have frustrated many journalists. These have included more aggressive complaints to the bosses of critical journalists and commentators like Mr. Koga, and more blatant retaliation against outlets that persist in faulting the administration. At the same time, Mr. Abe has tried to win over top media executives and noted journalists with private sushi lunches.
许多记者和政治专家称，安倍政府正试图彻底改变政府和新闻媒体之间的平衡，利用一些策略来压制批评的声音，其强度是以往的首相从未尝试过的。而这已经令许多记者感到不快。这些策略包括，向批评性报道的记者及古贺茂明等评论员的任职机构提出更加强硬的投诉，并对坚持谴责政府的媒体进行更加肆无忌惮的报复。与此同时，安倍晋三还通过私下的寿司午餐宴请，试图赢得一些媒体高管和知名记者的支持。
The prime minister, who arrived in the United States on Sunday for a weeklong visit, has also appointed a new chairman to the national public broadcaster, NHK, who has declared that the network will not deviate too far from the government’s views. Members of the Abe government have openly hinted at revoking the broadcasting licenses of overly critical networks under a law that requires that TV news reports not intentionally twist facts.
上周日刚刚抵达美国开始为期一周访问的安倍晋三，还为国家广播电视公司NHK任命了一位新的董事长，后者宣布，该机构将不会太过偏离政府的立场。安倍政府的成员已经公开暗示，要吊销一些强烈抨击政府的媒体的播放牌照，其依据是一部要求电视新闻报道不能故意歪曲事实的法律。
Mr. Abe’s efforts have had a chilling effect on coverage at a time when he is pushing ahead with a conservative agenda to dismantle the nation’s postwar pacifist consensus and put forth more positive portrayals of Japan’s World War II-era behavior. Experts warn that muzzling the press makes it easier for the government to make big changes that might not enjoy broad popular support, such as rewriting the pacifist Constitution, or even restarting the nation’s stalled nuclear industry.
安倍晋三的行动已经对媒体报道构成了一种“寒蝉效应”，与此同时，他正在推进一个保守议程，目的是瓦解日本在战后的和平共识，推动对日本二战时期行为进行更加正面的描述。专家警告说，对媒体进行钳制会让政府更容易做出可能不会获得广泛支持的重大改变，比如修改和平宪法，甚至重启日本核工业。
“The Abe government is showing an obsession with the media that verges on paranoia,” said Keigo Takeda, a former editor in chief at Newsweek Japan who is now a respected freelance journalist. “I have never seen this level of efforts to micromanage specific newspapers and TV programs.”
“安倍政府表现出来的对媒体的纠缠，已接近于偏执，”《新闻周刊日文版》(Newsweek Japan)的前主编竹田圭吾(Keigo Takeda)说。他目前是一名广受尊敬的自由记者。“这种事无巨细地管理具体报纸和新闻节目的行动，是我从未见过的。”
While government officials deny that they are trying to curtail free speech, many journalists, commentators and media experts say the government campaign has already tempered coverage of the Abe government. They say that even once feisty outlets like Hodo Station, the news program that had used Mr. Koga as a commentator, are now censoring their own coverage or removing critical voices to avoid drawing official ire.
尽管政府官员否认自己企图限制言论自由，许多记者、评论员和媒体专家说，政府的行动已经让有关安倍政府的报道趋于缓和。他们说，即使是像曾经聘请古贺茂明担任评论员的Hodo Station这样大胆敢言的媒体，目前也正在进行自我审查，或者剔除批评声音，从而避免引起官方的怒火。
Some criticism has also fallen on news outlets for rolling over without a fight, particularly since some of these tactics are considered routine in other democracies, like the United States. Many major news organizations have been accused of self-censorship, bringing renewed attention on what experts here say is a weak tradition among the Japanese press of serving as a watchdog on power.
已经有人批评一些新闻媒体轻易屈服于强权的做法，这尤其是因为，安倍政府的有些策略在美国等其他民主国家被认为十分普遍。许多主要媒体被指存在自我审查。日本专家称该国媒体担当权力监督者的传统相当薄弱，而这一点再次引发了关注。
The governing party is acting “like a bully who says, ‘Hey, I don’t like what you said, so meet me behind the gym,’ ” said Yukio Edano, a senior opposition lawmaker. “And the ones who meekly obey also lack self-respect as press organizations.”
执政党“就像一个校霸在说，‘嘿，你说的东西让我不高兴了，到操场后面去等我教训你，’反对党资深议员枝野幸男(Yukio Edano)说。“而那些顺从接受的缺乏作为媒体机构的自尊。”
This is a point conceded by many Japanese journalists, who say they have no choice but to get along with a prime minister who appears set to remain in power for several years in the absence of credible opposition. Other journalists say they do not want to suffer the fate of The Asahi Shimbun, a liberal newspaper that came under fierce criticism last fall and seemed to capitulate by cutting back on critical, investigative coverage of sensitive issues like the 2011 Fukushima nuclear accident.
许多日本记者也承认这一点，他们说，自己别无选择，只能顺从一位似乎还将掌权数年的首相，因为目前看不到一个具备挑战实力的反对派人物。还有一些记者说，他们不想要重复《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)的命运，这家自由派报纸去年秋天受到了严厉的批评，似乎已经屈从于压力，减少了对2011年福岛核事故等敏感议题的批评性调查报道。
Scholars describe a mood of fear spreading beyond the news media into the broader society, including in education where the Abe government is pressing textbook publishers to adhere more closely to the official line on topics like the 1937 Nanjing massacre and the use of so-called comfort women in wartime military brothels.
学者们称，一种恐惧的情绪正在从媒体蔓延到更广泛的社会，包括教育系统。安倍政府正在要求教科书出版商在1937年的南京大屠杀和在战时妓院使用所谓的慰安妇的问题上，更加严格地遵循官方的说法。
“These unprecedented attacks on The Asahi and other media are creating a closed conformity in which the whole society is becoming afraid to say something different,” said Tatsuro Hanada, a professor of media studies at Waseda University in Tokyo. “Abe is adeptly using this for his own political ends.”
“对《朝日新闻》等媒体的前所未有的打压，正在制造一种封闭的顺从，让整个社会都不敢发出不同的声音。”早稻田大学(Waseda University)媒体研究教授达郎花田(Tatsuro Hanada)说。“安倍正巧妙地利用这一手段达到自己的政治目的。”
Mr. Koga’s accusations offer a rare glimpse of how a formerly hard-hitting news program appears to have toned down its coverage.
古贺茂名发出的指责，让人们不同寻常地看到，一个曾经犀利大胆的新闻节目似乎已经减弱了报道力度。
While never a favorite of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, Hodo Station felt the pressure rise after a show in late January in which Mr. Koga criticized Mr. Abe’s handling of a hostage crisis in Syria that resulted in the deaths of the two Japanese captives. Mr. Koga and employees of the network that airs Hodo Station, TV Asahi, who asked not to be identified because they were still working there, said that before the program was even over, the network’s political reporters were getting angry calls and emails from political secretaries in the prime minister’s office.
Hodo Station从来也不是执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)青睐的节目，但在1月末播出了一期节目之后，相关人员感到了压力的加剧。在那期节目中，古贺茂名谴责了安倍晋三对叙利亚人质危机的处理方式，这场危机导致两名日本人质死亡。古贺茂名和播放Hodo Station的朝日电视台(TV Asahi)的其他员工说，这期节目还没结束，该台的政治记者就收到了首相办公室政策秘书的愤怒的电话和电子邮件。由于仍在该电视台工作，这些员工要求不具名。
They said the tactic seemed to succeed in turning network reporters against Hodo Station, which has a separate production staff. The reporters and their editors demanded that the program show them its scripts beforehand to ensure that coverage was “balanced,” something Hodo Station’s producer resisted. The government stepped up the pressure against the show again in February, when a top official in the Abe government, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, used an off-record briefing with journalists to speak scathingly of the “completely mistaken” comments about the hostage incident by a “television commentator.”
他们说，这一做法似乎成功地让这家媒体的记者站到了Hodo Station的对立面。该节目拥有自己的独立制作团队。记者和编辑们要求该节目向他们提前提供谈话文本，从而确保报道的“平衡”，该节目的制作人拒绝了这个要求。今年2月，政府再次加大了对Hodo Station的施压，当时，安倍政府的一名高级官员——内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)——在与记者召开的一次非公开简报会中，言辞尖刻地提到了一个“电视评论员”对人质事件的“彻底错误”的评论。
According to a transcript of the Feb. 24 briefing, Mr. Suga warned that the network might have broken the law by airing the comments. “If it were me, I’d tell them that they violated the broadcast law,” Mr. Suga said, laughing, according to the transcript.
根据2月24日的这次会议的文字记录，菅义伟警告说，电视台发表这些评论可能违反了法律。”记录显示，菅义伟笑着说，“如果是我，我会告诉他们，他们违反了广播法。”
Mr. Koga and others said the transcript had made its way to TV Asahi’s chairman, Hiroshi Hayakawa. “This was a warning to TV Asahi to get rid of me,” Mr. Koga said. “Suga knew this memo would be seen by all major news outlets, and be shown to Chairman Hayakawa.”
古贺茂名和其他一些人称，那份文字记录到了朝日电视台的会长早河洋(Hiroshi Hayakawa)手里。“这是给朝日电视台的警告，要他们踢走我，” 古贺茂名说。“菅义伟知道这份备忘录会被所有主要的新闻机构看到，还会被呈递给早河洋。”
Mr. Koga said that that was exactly what happened. In February, after three and a half years of appearing at least once a month as a commentator on Hodo Station, he found out that he would no longer be back on the show. At about the same time, another critical commentator and a producer who had refused to give in to the political pressure were also removed from the show.
古贺茂名说，事情果然不出预料。2月，他发现自己将再也不能上节目了。在那之前的三年半时间里，他至少一个月一次以评论员的身份出现在Hodo Station上。大约是在同一时间，另外一名持批评态度的评论员和一名拒绝向政治压力让步的制片人也被该节目解雇。
Mr. Koga said that move led to his outburst on March 27, his final appearance as commentator.
古贺茂名称，此事导致他在3月27日最后一次以评论员的身份现身时无法压抑愤满之情。
The network refused interview requests. Its chairman, Mr. Hayakawa, denied in a news conference that political pressure had played a role in what he called a routine decision to change the lineup of commentators. Mr. Suga has told reporters that Mr. Koga’s charges of political pressure were “baseless.”
该电视网拒绝了采访请求。其会长早河洋在一次新闻发布会上称，调整评论员阵容是常规决定，否认政治压力起了作用。菅义伟则对记者表示，古贺茂名有关政治压力的指控“毫无根据”。
Still, the governing party is keeping up the pressure, summoning TV Asahi executives two weeks ago to explain how Mr. Koga was allowed to make his accusations on live television. The party explained the summons by saying that those accusations may themselves have violated the broadcast law.
然而，执政党正在加压。两周前，朝日电视台的高管被叫去解释为何允许古贺茂名在电视直播上发出控诉。在向朝日电视台解释召见原因时，该党表示那些指控可能本身就已违反了广播法律。