TOKYO — Are some arts, crafts or cultural assets more important to humanity than others? Unesco thinks so. In 2008, the United Nations body inaugurated its “intangible cultural heritage” listings. The point of the designation, the organization explains, is not to set “any standard of excellence or exclusivity” but to ensure protection of “the wealth of knowledge and skills” transmitted by a culture over generations.
东京——是不是有的艺术品、工艺品或文化资产对人类格外重要一些？联合国教科文组织(Unesco)是这么想的。2008年，这家联合国分支机构设立了《人类非物质遗产代表作名录》。Unesco说，设立该名录并不是要设立“任何卓越或独特的标准”，而是为了确保在一种文化中被世代相传的“知识和技艺的宝贵财富”受到保护。
Unesco has identified 282 so-called elements, including Azerbaijani polo, calculation with a Chinese abacus and Peruvian scissors dancing. Lately, it extended the honor to washoku, or traditional Japanese cuisine — which now joins, among the culinary entries, the French gastronomic meal, Mexican traditional cuisine and the Mediterranean diet, as well as nearly 20 specific dishes or practices such as kimchi.
Unesco已经确立了282个非物质遗产项目，例如，阿塞拜疆马球、中国珠算和秘鲁剪刀舞。最近，被称作“和食”的日本传统食膳也获此殊荣——其他的餐饮类的非物质遗产还包括法国美食、墨西哥传统美食和地中海美食，以及将近20种具体的食品或做法，比如，韩国泡菜。
The accolade is usually seen as a boost, in terms of both prestige and commercial potential. Japan’s food industry, which has been battered by safety issues, greeted the news with elation. But in the case of washoku, Unesco’s imprimatur could undermine the very thing it seeks to preserve — not least by encouraging chefs to oversimplify and overcommercialize their traditions at a time when Japanese tastes are shifting toward Western cuisine.
这一荣誉被认为对和食的名气和商业潜力都大有助益。对于因为食品安全问题而受到严重冲击的日本食品行业来说，这个消息令人欢欣鼓舞。然而对于和食来说，Unesco的认可或许恰恰会削弱它寻求保护的东西——厨师们将更有理由对他们的传统进行过多的简化和商业化，而与此同时，日本人的饮食喜好正逐渐向西餐转移。
Unesco’s citation praises washoku’s distinctive social and cultural characteristics. It singles out the special new-year cuisine called osechi-ryori, with its elaborate multilayered boxes that retail for $100 to $10,000 in top department stores. These edible treasure chests brim with ornate arrangements of delicacies, often sprinkled with gold leaf: seaweed-rolled herring, simmered giant black beans, red caviar — all representing good fortune and good health.
Unesco在说明中赞赏了和食鲜明的社会和文化特色。它特别提到了被称作御节料理的新年特别料理，以及精美的多层料理盒。在高档百货商店，这种盒子的零售价从100美元到1万美元不等。这些如藏宝箱一样的食盒常常点缀着金箔，里面装满了造型精致的美食：海带卷鲱鱼、炖大黑豆和红色的鱼子酱——都象征着健康和好运。
In its range of colors, flavors and ingredients, osechi-ryori is a showcase for washoku’s most prized culinary discipline: kaiseki, or haute cuisine, which insists on rigid cooking styles and strict seasonality, in addition to artful presentation. Yet for many ordinary Japanese, washoku also means home-style dishes like grilled fish or the meat-and-potato stew called nikujaga. The lofty and the mundane are related. Both, for example, relentlessly pursue umami, or the fifth taste — an improbably delicate yet hearty flavor, which finds its purest expression in dashi, a thin stock made from dried kelp and bonito flakes that is the foundation of all Japanese cooking.
在颜色、口味和食材的选择上，御节料理都展示了和食制作中最受珍视的烹饪原则：怀石(kaiseki)，或者说高级料理，它坚持严苛的烹饪方法和精准的时令性，此外还有艺术化的外观。然而对许多日本普通人来说，和食也意味着烤鱼或是土豆炖肉的家常菜。高端的和家常的有很多相似之处。例如，它们都执着地追求鲜味，或者说第五种味道——一种极为鲜美而强烈的味道，能够最纯粹地表现出这种味道的是“出汁”，一种由干海带和柴鱼片做成的高汤，它是所有日本料理的基础。
Another defining feature of traditional Japanese food, from kaiseki to tofu and soba (buckwheat noodles), is the time its makers spend honing their craft. These skills are passed on to younger generations through grueling apprenticeships. Traditional washoku has few culinary courses or textbooks, and its recipes are jealously guarded — hence Unesco’s claim that it “plays an important role in strengthening social cohesion among the Japanese people while providing them a sense of identity and belonging.”
从怀石料理到豆腐和荞麦面，传统日本食膳的另一个关键特征是制作者在手艺的磨练上所耗费的时间之久。学习这些技艺的年轻学徒要经过一段难熬的岁月。几乎没有传统和食的烹饪课程或教科书，菜谱也是严加保密的——因此，Unesco才说，“它在加强日本的社会凝聚力上扮演着重要角色，同时也为日本人提供了一种身份和归属感。”
Yet that characterization also exaggerates the role of washoku as a cultural glue. Younger Japanese have been turning to high-end Western cuisine and fast-food chains. Japan’s annual rice consumption has fallen by 17 percent in the past 15 years. Demand for meat has exceeded that for fish since 2006, according to government figures. Some of the bigger kaiseki establishments are suffering from declining patronage, the soaring cost of seasonal ingredients and a shortage of apprentices willing to work backbreaking years for pitiful pay.
然而这一描述也夸大了和食作为文化粘合剂所起到的作用。更年轻的日本人更喜欢高端的西餐和快餐连锁。日本大米年消耗量过去15年下降了17%。根据政府数据，2006年以来，对肉类的需求超过了对鱼的需求。因为顾客数量不断减少，时令食材成本飙升，又缺少愿意为微薄的薪水吃苦受累的学徒，一些较大的怀石料理餐馆的日子很不好过。
Japan is still food-obsessed. Cooking schools are booming. And the cheaper forms of washoku, like soba and yakitori (skewers of all things chicken) will remain popular. But many aspiring young chefs are turning to Western cuisine, a faster route to success.
日本人仍然迷恋着美食。烹饪学校蓬勃兴起。更便宜的和食，比如荞麦面和烤鸡肉串（包括鸡身上的各个部位）仍会很受欢迎。但是许多有志的年轻厨师纷纷转做西餐，因为这才是通向成功的捷径。
Meanwhile, sales of Japanese food products have plunged, at home and abroad, partly because of radiation scares from the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. A longer-term concern is the impact of shifting tastes and lifestyles on traditional society, particularly on family rituals around meals. Reliance on convenience foods is growing as more women enter the workforce and more young people opt to eat out.
与此同时，日本食品的销量在国内和国外都大幅下降，部分原因是2011年地震和海啸之后福岛核电站辐射泄漏带来的恐慌。更长期的担忧是，饮食喜好和生活方式的不断变化对传统社会的影响，尤其是对与饮食有关的家庭传统的影响。对方便食品的依赖正在不断增强，越来越多的女性进入职场，越来越多的年轻人选择在餐馆吃饭。
Unesco’s listing of washoku and its endorsement of “safeguarding measures” to protect the cuisine would seem to come at precisely the right time. And it will undoubtedly drive new promotional initiatives. But it could also create economic incentives to corral washoku into just its most popular forms.
Unesco把和食列入非物质遗产名录并支持这种菜系的“保护措施”，似乎正当其时。这毫无疑问将驱动新的宣传活动。但是，这也可能促使人们因为经济利益把和食做成最受欢迎的样式。
That would undermine the more exciting work of the young restaurateurs who are trying to preserve the best of washoku while adapting to contemporary realities. Take Keiji Mori, a classically trained chef who spent much of the 1980s in a top kaiseki establishment in Kyoto, working up to the rank of nikata, or overseer of the dashi stock. A decade ago, he opened a low-key restaurant in Tokyo that serves a lighter, more modern form of high-quality washoku. He also implemented training to teach his entire kitchen staff — including women, a rarity in traditional kitchens — all aspects of food production. Everyone, he says, does a bit of everything.
对于那些试图保留和食精华，同时又适应当代现实的年轻餐馆经营者来说，他们的那些激动人心的努力可能会受到打击。以森圭司(Keiji Mori)为例，他接受过传统训练，上世纪80年代的大部分时间都在东京的一个顶级怀石料理店工作，达到“煮方”的级别，即可以负责烹饪出汁。10年前，他在东京开了一家不起眼的餐馆，提供一种更轻量、更现代的高品质和食。他还举行培训，让所有厨房员工——包括在传统厨房里不常见到的女性——学习食品制作的方方面面。他说，每个人把各种事都要做一点。
At his newly opened branch in Tokyo’s ritzy Ginza district, a signature lunch of simmered pork-belly or grilled, sake-marinated fish with rice and sesame tofu is just $10. Mori’s margins are low, but his restaurants’ leaner cost-base and contemporary take on tradition are a signpost for the future of washoku.
他在时尚的东京银座区新开了一家分店，招牌午餐是炖猪肚或烤清酒腌鱼，配以米饭和芝麻豆腐，仅售10美元（约合人民币6元）。森圭司的利润很低，但是他以较低的成本和对传统的当代处理，为和食的未来指出了一个方向。
As Unesco stresses, intangible heritage is “constantly changing and evolving.” And so kaiseki-refugees like Mori, who straddle Western and Japanese traditions, make washoku’s best argument against chain-store burgers and takeaway pizza.
如Unesco所强调的，非物质遗产是“不断变化和发展的”。因此，森圭司这样的融合了西方和日本传统的怀石料理难民，是和食与连锁汉堡店以及外卖披萨相竞争的最好办法。