Hayao Miyazaki, the acclaimed director of 11 animated features that have won global prestige and popularity for Japanese animation, has put down his pencil for the last time.
广受赞誉的导演宫崎骏(Hayao Miyazaki)最后一次决定息影，他所导演的11部动画片为日本动漫在全球各地赢得了声誉和人气。
“I’ve mentioned that I would retire many times in the past, so a lot of you must be thinking ‘Oh, not again,' ” Mr. Miyazaki said on Friday at a packed news conference in Tokyo. “But this time I am quite serious.”
“过去我曾多次提到要退休，因此你们中的很多人现在肯定在想，‘噢！又来了，’”周五，在东京一场座无虚席的新闻发布会上，宫崎骏说道，“但这次我很认真。”
Mr. Miyazaki’s latest film, “The Wind Rises,” took him five years to complete, which is one year more than it took him to finish 2008’s “Ponyo.” The director, who is 72, said that he would rather pursue other endeavors than labor into his 80s on another feature film, adding that he will not work on short films or scriptwriting during his retirement.
宫崎骏最新电影作品《起风了》耗时五年时间，比其2008年作品《悬崖上的金鱼公主》还多一年。这位72岁的导演表示，他愿意做些其他事情，而不是到80多岁还在为另一部电影辛苦劳作，他还表示，引退后也不会拍短片或写剧本。
“My work is really about sitting at the desk and drawing,” he said. “And at my age, you just reach a point when you have to put down the pencil a bit earlier each day and go home.”
“我的工作实际上就是坐在桌子前画画，”宫崎骏说。“而到了我这个年纪，就该每天稍微早点放下笔回家了。”
“The Wind Rises” will be Mr. Miyazaki’s final film for Studio Ghibli, the company he co-founded in 1985 with a fellow director of animated films, Isao Takahata. The studio, which produced Japan’s all-time highest-grossing film, Mr. Miyazaki’s “Spirited Away,” which won the 2003 Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, will remain in operation, with two projects currently in production, according to its chief executive, Koji Hoshino.
《起风了》将成为宫崎骏为吉卜力工作室(Studio Ghibli)导演的最后一部电影。吉卜力工作室由宫崎骏在1985年和另一位动画电影导演高田勋(Isao Takahata)共同创立，制作了日本有史以来最卖座的电影——宫崎骏导演的《千与千寻》。该工作室首席执行官星野康二(Koji Hoshino)称，工作室将继续运作，目前有两部作品正在制作之中。
Unlike most of Mr. Miyazaki’s previous films, “The Wind Rises” is not a purely fantasy film, but instead provides a fictionalized account of the life of Jiro Horikoshi, designer of the famous Mitsubishi A6M Zero fighter plane used by Japan during World War II. The Zero aircraft were deployed in the Japanese invasion of China in 1937 and the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
和宫崎骏之前的大部分电影不同，《起风了》并非一个完全意义上的奇幻电影，而是以第二次世界大战期间日本著名的零式舰载战斗机的设计者堀越二郎(Jiro Horikoshi)为原型，进行的一次虚构性创作。日本曾在1937年侵华及1941年偷袭珍珠港时出动了零式战斗机。
“The Wind Rises” is a departure for the director, who said that his overall message, drawn from the children’s literature that influenced him, was simply that “life is worth living.” The film’s nuanced treatment of a complex period in Japanese history has won praise from critics, while highlighting conflicting interpretations of Japan’s wartime history. Some conservative Japanese have criticized the film and its director as unpatriotic, while others, particularly in South Korea, have denounced the film as a celebration of Japan’s wartime aggression.
宫崎骏说自己整体上要传达的信息很简单，就是“活着很有意义”，这种想法是受到对其产生影响的儿童文学的启发，而《起风了》是宫崎骏的一次转型。这部电影对日本的一段复杂历史进行了微妙细致的处理，获得评论家的褒奖，又同时突显出对日本战时历史相互矛盾的解读。日本一些保守人士批评该部电影及其导演不爱国，而其他尤其是在韩国的人也对电影进行了抨击，称其是对日本战时侵略的庆祝。
Mr. Miyazaki is the rare filmmaker who is at once realist and idealist, said Susan Napier, a professor of Japanese at Tufts University in Massachusetts, who called him the first recognized auteur of animated feature films.
宫崎骏是那种很少见的兼具现实主义和理想主义的导演，马萨诸塞州塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)的日语教授苏珊·内皮尔(Susan Napier)说，她还称宫崎骏为首位得到认可的动画电影大师。
“In this work, Miyazaki highlights some of the contradictions that lie at the heart of warfare,” Ms. Napier said in an interview. “The glory in creating marvelous technology and the horror of what it actually wreaks.”
“在这部作品中，宫崎骏强调了有关战争的一些核心冲突，”内皮尔在一次采访时表示。“那种创造惊人技术的荣耀以及相关技术实际带来的灾难所产生的恐惧。”
Ms. Napier compared the films of Mr. Miyazaki to those of Akira Kurosawa, the legendary Japanese director whose films also took on complex portrayals of Japan’s history.
内皮尔将宫崎骏的电影和日本传奇导演黑泽明(Akira Kurosawa)的作品进行了对比，后者的电影同样对日本历史进行了复杂解读。
“Like Kurosawa, Miyazaki’s works are exciting and consistently a joy to watch, but at their depth lies a profound concern with the world and a desire to change it for the better,” she said.
“和黑泽明一样，宫崎骏的作品令人兴奋，而且一直能带来愉悦观感，但往作品深处探究，你会发现那里有对世界深切的关心和想要让世界变得更好的愿望，”内皮尔说。
The news conference was testament to Mr. Miyazaki’s international appeal, as more than 600 journalists from 11 countries prefaced each question with praise as they tried to coax from him some hint of how he will spend his time from now on. The director encouraged fans to visit the Ghibli Museum in Tokyo, where he said he would like to help restore and curate exhibits of hand-drawn panels and other artifacts from the animé studio’s archives.
这场新闻发布会成为了宫崎骏在全球拥有很高人气的证明，来自11个国家的600多名记者在问每个一问题之前都对宫崎骏表达了赞美之词，他们试图从宫崎骏嘴里得到一些信息，来了解他接下来的动向。这名导演鼓励粉丝们去参观位于东京的吉卜力博物馆，他说自己想在那里帮助修复动画手绘板及动漫工作室储藏的其他物品，并组织相关展览。
“I’d like to be involved with creating exhibitions, perhaps as a volunteer,” Mr. Miyazaki said, laughing. “But who knows, maybe I myself will be exhibited in the museum.”
“我想参与策览，也许当个志愿者，”宫崎骏说着，哈哈一笑。“但谁知道呢，或许我自己也会成为博物馆的展品之一。”