TOKYO — Over the summer, the man told his father that his life had no meaning. Then he went looking for others who felt the same way, and apparently killed them.
东京——整个夏天，这名男子都告诉父亲，说自己的生活毫无意义。然后他开始寻找其他有同样想法的人，而且似乎还杀了他们。
The man, Takahiro Shiraishi, was arrested on Tuesday, a day after police visited his apartment almost 30 miles southwest of Tokyo and found the dismembered parts of nine bodies. Japan was riveted as the news media disclosed more grisly details from the second day of the investigation, reporting that Shiraishi, 27, had confessed to finding the victims, who he said were considering suicide, on Twitter.
这位名叫白石隆浩(Takahiro Shiraishi)的男子于周二被捕。此前一天，警方前往他位于东京西南30英里（约合50公里）处的公寓，发现了九具尸体的残肢。随着调查进入第二天，新闻媒体公布了更多骇人听闻的细节，轰动了日本。媒体报道说，现年27岁的白石隆浩已在受害者被发现时供认不讳，他说那些受害者都是在Twitter上想自杀的人。
In Japan, a low-crime country, it is the grimmest such case since a former employee of a center for the disabled went on a knife rampage there, killing 19 people last year.
在日本这个犯罪率极低的国家，该案是自去年，日本一残疾人中心的一名前雇员在那里持刀砍死19人以来，最为可怖的此类案件。
Shiraishi’s case, involving social media suicide pacts, connections to Tokyo’s notorious red-light district and neighbors who did not report a noxious smell coming from the suspect’s apartment for months, has the hallmarks of a grotesque thriller novel or horror movie.
白石隆浩案有着怪诞惊悚小说或恐怖电影的特征，其中涉及社交媒体自杀协定、与东京臭名昭著的红灯区的关联，以及数月来闻到嫌犯公寓飘出的恶臭却没有报警的邻居。
Japan has the third-highest suicide rate of the world’s richest countries, after South Korea and Hungary, and its government has prioritized suicide prevention, monitoring suicide-related message boards on the internet, among other measures. The Japanese murder rate, by contrast, is one of the lowest in the world, making the news media all the more obsessed with the ghastly details of the current case.
日本的自杀率在全球最富裕国家中排名第三，仅次于韩国和匈牙利，并且该国政府已经将自杀预防作为了首要任务，采取的措施包括监控网上留言板与自杀有关的信息等。与之相反，日本的谋杀率则为全球最低之一，使得新闻媒体对于这起恐怖案件的骇人细节津津乐道。
Television reporters spent a good part of Tuesday and Wednesday training their cameras on the building in the city of Zama where Shiraishi lived, or showing footage of the suspect covering his eyes with his hands as police drove him to meet with prosecutors Wednesday morning.
周二和周三，电视台的记者们花了很长时间，将摄像机对准白石隆浩在座间市居住的楼房，或播放警方周三早间开车送其去见检察官时，嫌犯用手捂着双眼的画面。
With the police officially saying very little, it was left to the Japanese news media to report details leaked to members-only “press clubs” for crime reporters.
由于警方几乎没有正式公布信息，于是就只有新闻媒体来报道细节，这些细节都被泄露给了为报道犯罪的记者设立的会员制“新闻俱乐部”成员。
Although the police have so far charged Shiraishi only with “abandoning bodies,” news reports on Tuesday described him as a serial killer who sought people who were thinking of killing themselves and who had expressed their dark thoughts on Twitter. Police are expected to charge Shiraishi with murder.
尽管警方至今仅以“抛尸罪”指控白石隆浩，周二的新闻报道仍将其描述为一名连环杀手，说他寻找那些在Twitter上表达想要自杀的阴暗想法的人。预计警方将对白石隆浩做出谋杀指控。
According to news reports, police discovered body parts from eight women and one man in Shiraishi’s apartment, along with a saw, ropes and an awl, apparently used to restrain and cut the bodies. The body parts, which included severed heads, were found in cold-storage containers and tool boxes, some covered in cat litter. The national broadcaster NHK reported that Shiraishi had said four of the victims were teenagers.
根据新闻报道，警方在白石隆浩的公寓中发现了八名女子及一名男子的残肢，一同被发现的还有一把锯子、绳子和锥子，这些工具显然是用来捆绑和分尸的。残肢包括被切下的头颅，都是在冷藏箱和工具箱中被发现的，一些残肢上面盖着猫砂。国家广播公司NHK报道称，白石隆浩曾说过有四名受害者为青少年。
Kyodo News reported that Shiraishi, who worked as a recruiter for an escort service based in the Tokyo red-light district of Kabukicho, had confessed to sexually assaulting some of the women before killing them.
共同社报道，白石隆浩已供认在杀害其中一些女性前，曾性侵过她们。白石隆浩曾在东京红灯区歌舞伎町从事陪侍服务揽客的工作。
Authorities were initially led to Shiraishi’s apartment while searching for a missing 23-year-old Tokyo woman who had posted on Twitter that she was “looking for someone who will die with me.”
当局最初是在搜寻一名失踪的23岁东京女子时被引至白石隆浩的公寓的。该女子曾在Twitter上表示自己正在“寻找能和我一起死的人”。
Her brother reported her missing late last month, and through her Twitter account found that she had been exchanging messages with Shiraishi. The brother said she had been thinking of killing herself since the death of their mother in June, and that she had disappeared on Oct. 23 from the group home in Hachioji, a suburb of Tokyo, where she was living.
她的哥哥上月底报警说她失踪，并通过她的Twitter账号发现她曾与白石隆浩聊天。受害者的哥哥说，自从两人的母亲于6月去世后，她一直想要自杀，还说她是在10月23日在东京郊区八王子的一个团体之家失踪，此前她一直住在那里。
The suspect told police that he had sent a Twitter message to the woman saying, “Let’s die together,” Kyodo reported.
共同社报道称，嫌犯告诉警方，说他给这名女子发了一条消息：“我们一起死吧。”
Police have not yet said whether the woman’s remains were among those at Shiraishi’s apartment.
这名女子的尸体是否在白石隆浩公寓中发现的残肢当中，警方还未作出表态。
According to The Asahi Shimbun, the brother provided police with Shiraishi’s Twitter handle, and investigators identified another woman who had been in touch with the suspect. She agreed to contact Shiraishi and to invite him to meet her at a train station while police observed.
据《朝日新闻》报道，受害人的哥哥向警方提供了白石隆浩的Twitter用户名，调查人员还找出了另一名曾与嫌犯有过接触的女子。她同意联系白石隆浩，邀请他在一个警方监视的火车站碰面。
After the woman identified Shiraishi, police followed him back to his apartment on Monday.
周一，在这名女子指认出白石隆浩后，警方跟踪他回到了自己的公寓。
When they knocked on the door, he answered, and the police saw boxes inside. When they asked Shiraishi if he knew where the missing woman was, according to the Asahi report, he replied, “In that cooler.”
警方敲门后，白石隆浩来开了门，警方随即看到了屋内的箱子。据《朝日新闻》报道，当他们询问白石隆浩是否知道失踪女子的下落时，他回答说，“在那个冷藏箱里。”