TOKYO — Japan’s economic growth slowed in the second quarter to an annualized rate of 2.6 percent, government data showed on Monday, clouding the outlook for the economic policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and raising concerns that he may put off moves to tackle the country’s enormous public debt.
东京——周一发布的政府数据显示，日本二季度的年化经济增长率下降到了2.6%，给日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)经济政策的前景蒙上了一层阴影，人们由此担心他或许会推迟处理日本巨额公共债务的工作。
This was the third consecutive quarter of growth for Japan’s roughly $5 trillion gross domestic product, the third-largest in the world after the United States and China. Still, the expansion fell short of analysts’ expectations for Japan, which grew at a robust pace of 3.8 percent in the previous quarter, helped by the Abe government’s bold monetary and fiscal stimulus drive.
这是日本约5万亿美元（约合30.6万亿元人民币）的国内生产总值(GDP)连续第三个季度实现增长。日本是世界第三大经济体，仅次于美国和中国。然而，日本的经济增长还是未能达到分析人士的预期。在安倍晋三政府大胆的货币和财政刺激政策的帮助下，日本前一季度的增长十分强劲，达到了3.8%。
Economists polled by Reuters had expected Japan’s economy to grow at a similarly healthy clip in the April-June quarter. But weak capital expenditure, reflecting continued caution among Japanese corporations over the country’s long-term prospects, slowed growth, according to figures released by the Cabinet Office.
接受路透社(Reuters)调查的经济学家曾预计，4月至6月这一季度，日本经济还会以相似的健康速度增长。然而，日本内阁府发布的数据显示，日本资本支出走弱导致了经济增速放缓，这反映了日本企业仍然对国家的长期前景十分谨慎。
Compared with the previous quarter, the Japanese economy grew 0.6 percent in the latest quarter. Private consumption rose a better-than-expected 0.8 percent over the previous quarter, as a brightening mood in Japan pushed up spending on food, travel and luxury products. But capital expenditure fell by 0.1 percent, below a market forecast for a 0.7 percent increase.
第三季度，日本经济同比增长0.6%。随着日本人民的情绪变乐观，人们在食品、旅行和奢侈品等方面的支出相应增加，个人消费也好于预期，同比增长了0.8%。但是，资本支出下降了0.1%，低于增长0.7%的市场预期。
Signs of slowing growth could strengthen the hand of critics of Mr. Abe’s economic drive, which has relied heavily on monetary stimulus and government spending to revive growth in Japan’s long-deflationary economy. Mr. Abe has promised to follow up with market deregulation and easing trade barriers to raise Japan’s long-term growth potential.
增长放缓的迹象，可能会使批评安倍晋三经济政策的人立场更加坚定。安倍的政策严重依赖于货币刺激和政府支出等措施来复苏日本长期通货紧缩的经济。安倍晋三还曾承诺要通过放松市场监管和消除贸易壁垒来提升日本的长期增长潜力。
Weaker growth could also derail Japan’s plans to raise taxes and pare back its soaring debt, which reached 1 quadrillion yen ($10 trillion) in the second quarter, more than twice the size of its economy. To start easing that debt burden, the government plans to raise a flat consumption tax rate to 8 percent in April 2014 from the current level of 5 percent, and to 10 percent in October 2015.
增长走软也可能会破坏日本增税、减少巨额债务的计划，日本的债务在第二季度已达到1千万亿日元，即10万亿美元（约合61万亿元人民币），是其经济规模的两倍多。为了开始缓解债务负担，政府计划在2014年4月把单一消费税率从目前的5%提高到8%，并在2015年10月提高到10%。
According to government calculations, raising the consumption tax rate could double tax receipts to more than 5 percent of Japan’s gross domestic product, compared with the current 2 to 3 percent, helping Japan better balance its finances.
根据政府的计算，提高消费税会让税收收入翻倍，使税收在日本GDP中所占的比例从目前的2%-3%提高到5%以上，帮助日本更好地平衡财政收支。
Whether Japan goes ahead with raising taxes will depend on how sustainable the government deems current economic growth to be. Under the current plan, the consumption tax will proceed if it is likely that the Japanese economy can sustain at least 2 percent real G.D.P. growth for the next decade.
日本是否会继续推行增税，将取决于政府对目前经济增长的可持续性的判断。按照目前的计划，如果日本经济能在未来十年保持至少2%的实际GDP增长率，消费税增税就会继续进行。
Some economists warn that raising taxes too soon could derail Japan’s nascent recovery.
一些经济学家警告说，增税太快可能会影响日本刚刚开始的复苏。
“A tightening in fiscal policy would almost certainly snuff out the current cyclical rebound,” Duncan Wooldridge and Silvia Liu, economists at UBS, said in a note to clients ahead of the G.D.P. numbers.
“财政政策收紧几乎必然会遏制当前的周期性反弹，”瑞银(UBS)经济学家吴德恺(Duncan Wooldridge)和西尔维娅·刘(Silvia Liu)在GDP数据发布前写给客户的一份备忘录中写道。
“The desire for fiscal consolidation in the long run must not sacrifice the war on deflation in the short run,” they said. “To hike or not to hike the consumption tax is the only policy which matters over the next four quarters.”
“实现长期财政整顿的愿望，千万不能牺牲短期内抗击通货紧缩的努力，”他们说。“增不增加消费税是唯一能影响接下来的四个季度的政策。”