TOKYO — This newspaper’s recent obituary for Theodore Van Kirk, the last living crew member of the Enola Gay — the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima — closed with a quote from a 1995 interview with Mr. Van Kirk. “It’s really hard to talk about morality and war in the same sentence,” he was cited as saying. “Where was the morality in the bombing of Coventry, or the bombing of Dresden, or the Bataan Death March, or the Rape of Nanking, or the bombing of Pearl Harbor?”
东京——向广岛投下原子弹的“艾诺拉·盖伊号”(Enola Gay)轰炸机的机组人员中，西奧多·范柯克(Theodore Van Kirk)最后离世。本报发表的讣告以他在1995年接受采访时说的话结尾。“道德和战争很难并存，”他说。“轰炸考文垂、轰炸德累斯顿、巴丹死亡行军、南京大屠杀、轰炸珍珠港，这些事情有什么道德性可言吗？”
Mr. Van Kirk was right. Everyday morality falls mute before the horrors of war. And yet I can’t help feeling that, from the perspective of the victims, the atomic bombings on Hiroshima and Nagasaki are different: Something distinguishes those attacks from the Bataan Death March, the Rape of Nanking, the bombing of Dresden or the Holocaust.
范柯克说的没错。面对战争的暴行，平常的道德通常行不通。但我仍不禁感到，从受害者的角度来看，广岛和长崎的原子弹爆炸并不等同于巴丹死亡行军、南京大屠杀、德累斯顿轰炸及犹太人大屠杀。
The difference lies not in the atrocities themselves, but in the attitude the world has taken toward them. The international community has reached a consensus regarding all those other horrors: They violated international law; they never should have occurred in the first place; they must never be permitted to happen again. The few individuals who defend the Holocaust, for instance, are not only condemned but reviled.
区别并不在于暴行本身，而在于全世界对它们的态度。国际社会对其他暴行达成了一致：它们违反了国际法；起初就不应该发生；决不允许再次出现。例如，少数为犹太人大屠杀辩解的人不仅会遭到谴责，还会被辱骂。
The situation is completely different with respect to the atomic bombings. Even if most people around the world privately believe the indiscriminate killing of civilians with nuclear weapons is wrong, there is no shared public consensus to this effect. The international community has not prohibited the use of nuclear weapons, as it has done with the use of poison gas and other chemical and biological weapons.
谈到原子弹爆炸，却截然不同。尽管世界上大多数人私下里认为利用核武器滥杀平民是错误的，但公众并没有就其影响达成一致。国际社会禁止使用毒气等生化武器，但没有禁止使用核武器。
The permanent members of the United Nations Security Council oppose the notion of an unconditional ban; they themselves possess nuclear weapons and want to reserve their “right” to use them. And while in a 1996 advisory opinion the International Court of Justice stated that “the threat or use of nuclear weapons would generally be contrary to the rules of international law applicable in armed conflict,” it would not declare the threat or use of nuclear weapons illegal under all conditions. In particular, it said, “the Court cannot conclude definitively whether the threat or use of nuclear weapons would be lawful or unlawful in an extreme circumstance of self-defense, in which the very survival of a State would be at stake.”
联合国安理会常任理事国反对无条件禁止核武器的观点；它们自己拥有核武器，希望保留使用核武器的“权利”。国际法院(International Court of Justice)在1996年提供的咨询意见称，“威胁或使用核武器总体上与适用于武装冲突的国际法规定背道而驰，”但法院不愿宣告威胁或使用核武器在任何情况下都属于违法行为。特别是，法院还提到，“本院无法最终断定，在一个国家面临存亡问题，进行自卫的极端情况下，威胁或使用核武器是合法行为还是非法行为。”
In a sense, this is only natural. Since the standing members of the Security Council are all nuclear states, the balance of power within the United Nations itself might come into question if nuclear weapons were banned. The “threat or use” of nuclear weapons may “generally be contrary to the rules of international law applicable in armed conflict,” and it is certainly inhumane, but it is the foundation of the entire world order.
从某种意义上说，这很正常。由于安理会常任理事国都是核国家，如果核武器被禁，联合国内部的势力均衡可能会成为一个问题。“威胁或使用”核武器或许“总体上与适用于武装冲突的国际法规定背道而驰”，也当然是不人道的，但这是维护整套世界秩序的基石。
And so the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki suffer a double injury. Unlike the victims of, say, the Holocaust, who can at least take strength in knowing that the world stands with them, the victims of the atomic bombings have stood alone for decades.
因此，广岛和长崎的幸存者遭受了双重伤害。犹太人大屠杀等暴行的受害者至少知道全世界与他们站在一起，能从中获得力量。但与他们不同，原子弹爆炸的受害者数十年来孤立无援。
Even the Japanese government has abandoned them: Not once has it protested the dropping of those two bombs. Whatever the American government’s reasons for not admitting that the attacks were illegal and for not offering an apology, the Japanese government has a responsibility of its own toward its citizens.
甚至连日本政府也抛弃了他们，从未对投掷两枚炸弹的行为提出抗议。无论美国政府不承认此类攻击为非法、不赔礼道歉的理由是什么，日本政府本身应该为其民众负责。
This year in March, the number of survivors — the hibakusha, as they are called — fell to 192,719. They were 79.44 years old on average. Soon enough, they will all be gone, and then no one who was directly involved in the bombings, whether from the air or on the ground, will be left.
今年3月，幸存者——被称为被爆者(hibakusha)——人数减至192719名。他们的平均年龄为79.44岁。他们很快都会离开人世，到时候，与爆炸有直接关联——无论是空中还是地面——的人就都不在世上了。
Yet the hibakusha’s suffering is not always given the acknowledgment it deserves, not even at the annual ceremonies commemorating the attacks: The speeches Prime Minister Shinzo Abe made last week, on Aug. 6 in Hiroshima and Aug. 9 in Nagasaki, were largely recycled from the addresses he gave last year. Sixty-nine years after the bombings, the victims are still waiting for the rest of the world to imagine what it is like to endure what they have endured.
然而，被爆者遭受的痛苦并不总是能获得应有的承认，即便在每年纪念原子弹爆炸的活动中，也是如此：日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)上周——8月6日在广岛，8月9日在长崎——发表的讲话基本上与去年的讲话相同。在袭击事件发生69年后，受害者仍在等待世界上的其他人想象、体会他们所经历的一切。
When the Japan Confederation of A- and H-bomb Sufferers Organizations was founded in 1956, it called on the world to abolish nuclear weapons. But it also voiced support for nuclear energy: “Atomic power, which has a tendency to follow the road to destruction and extermination,” the group said in one statement, must be turned into “a servant for the happiness and prosperity of humankind.” In the wake of the March 11, 2011, tsunami and the nuclear catastrophe it triggered at Fukushima, this stance — which many hibakusha organizations had maintained until the disaster — was criticized as naïve. But who can blame victims with no hope, and no support, for wanting to find a way of turning the evil they suffered into some good?
日本原水爆被害者团体协议会(Japan Confederation of A- and H-bomb Sufferers Organizations)在1956年成立之时，号召全世界废除核武器。但该组织对核能表示支持：“原子能可能会带来摧毁、毁灭的后果，”该组织在一份声明中表示，必须将其转变为“人类幸福与繁荣的仆人”。在2011年3月11日，日本出现海啸，并引发了福岛核灾难后，人们批评这种立场非常幼稚——很多被爆者组织在事故发生前一直保持这种立场。但这些毫无希望、孤立无援的受害者，想要通过某种方式，将折磨他们的恶魔变成好的东西，又有什么可指摘的呢？
And who can blame the hibakusha for placing outsized faith in President Obama when he delivered his first anti-nuclear speech in April 2009? I, for one, will not forget the moving Op-Ed that the designer Issey Miyake, a Hiroshima native, published in this newspaper a few months later. After describing his memories of the day the bomb was dropped on the city, he wrote, “There is a movement in Hiroshima to invite Mr. Obama to Universal Peace Day on Aug. 6 — the annual commemoration of that fateful day. I hope he will accept.”
你能怪被爆者对奥巴马总统在2009年4月的首次反核演讲寄予过多期待吗？比如，我不会忘记几个月后，广岛土生土长的设计师三宅一生(Issey Miyake)在本报发表的那篇感人肺腑的观点文章。他先是回忆了广岛遭到原子弹袭击的那一天，然后写道，“广岛发起了一场行动，邀请奥巴马参加8月6日的和平日活动——纪念灾难性的一天。我希望他能接受邀请。”