TOKYO — Last December, around the time Prime Minister Shinzo Abe thrust his Special Secrets Protection Bill on Japan despite popular opposition, a bizarre advertisement for the daily Asahi Shimbun appeared in subway stations across Tokyo. The poster showed a well-known former boxer, now in his 60s, poring over a newspaper spread on his desk. The text read: “I want to be a citizen the prime minister will respect.”
东京——去年12月，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)不顾普遍的反对，抛出了《特定秘密保护法案》(Special Secrets Protection Bill)。大约就在那时，出现在东京各地铁站的日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)刊登了一则匪夷所思的广告。画面显示，一名现年60来岁的知名前拳击手全神贯注地阅读摊在桌上的报纸。广告语则写着：“我想成为让首相敬重的公民。”
The ad caught the public’s eye, but it garnered overwhelmingly negative reactions, ranging from befuddlement to anger. As one freelance journalist argued, the newspaper’s self-portrayal was at odds with the so-called Canon of Journalism adopted by the Japan Newspaper Publishers and Editors Association in 2000. Those guidelines state, among other things, that “the public’s right to know” in a democracy “cannot be ensured without the existence of media, operating with the guarantee of freedom of speech and expression, while being totally committed to a high moral standard and fully independent.” The Asahi Shimbun has yet to respond satisfactorily to this criticism.
这则广告抓住了大众的眼球，不过也招致了一边倒的负面反应，读者轻则困惑不解，重则颇为愤怒。正如一名自由记者所提出的，该报的自我定位和日本新闻协会(Japan Newspaper Publishers and Editors Association)2000年通过的《新闻伦理纲领》(Canon of Journalism)大相径庭。这套纲领列出了诸多准则，其中宣称，在一个民主国家，“如果没有媒体的存在，如果媒体的运营得不到言论自由的保障，如果媒体不能完全信守高度的道德标准并彻底保持独立，”那么，“公众的知情权就得不到保障。”《朝日新闻》还没有对这一指责作出令人满意的答复。
The implications of this peculiar ad are troubling. And they seem to be borne out by several incidents that have taken place in its wake, which raise serious doubts about just how “fully independent” Japanese papers really are.
这则奇怪的广告隐含的意味令人不安。在它刊登之初发生的几起事件似乎证实了其中的意味。这些事件导致人们严重质疑，日本报刊“彻底独立”的程度究竟有多深?
One galling example occurred on Dec. 26, 2013, when Mr. Abe became the first sitting Japanese head of state in seven years to visit the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, the controversial memorial said to house the spirits of Japan’s war dead, including those of convicted war criminals. That very evening, Mr. Abe had dinner with the political editors and writers of Japan’s most prominent newspapers, including Asahi, Yomiuri and Mainichi. The next day, only one of the prime minister’s dinner companions wrote about his visit to the shrine.
一个难堪的例子发生在2013年12月26日。当天，安倍晋三成为了过去七年中首位在任上参拜东京靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)的日本首相。这座富有争议的纪念场所据称供奉着日本战时死者的亡灵，其中包括了被定罪的战犯。就在参拜当晚，安倍晋三和日本主要报社的政治新闻编辑和记者们共进了晚餐，而《朝日新闻》、《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri)和《每日新闻》(Mainichi)等均在受邀之列。第二天，在与首相共进晚餐的报业同仁中，只有一人报道了他的参拜之举。
The sole exception, Mainichi’s political editor, criticized the visit for harming the national interest by predictably causing an international stir. But he also noted “the significance of the prime minister’s motivation, which was to express his veneration for the spirits of the heroes who sacrificed their lives for Japan.” The piece was noticeably gentler on Mr. Abe than the paper’s editorial of the same day, suggesting that the author’s personal interactions with Mr. Abe may have swayed his views in the prime minister’s favor.
这个唯一的例外是《每日新闻》的政治新闻编辑。他指责此次参拜不出所料地引发了一场国际风波，从而损害了日本的国家利益。不过，他还指出，“首相这么做意义重大，是为了向为日本献出生命的英雄的亡灵表达敬仰之情。”比起该报同日针对此事发表的社论，这篇文章的论调明显更为温和，表明作者和安倍晋三的私人互动，可能促使他的观点偏向了首相这边。
There was a good deal of popular outrage when news of this dinner came to light, but not one of the newspapers whose editors dined with Mr. Abe that evening has yet offered an explanation for why it happened.
这顿晚餐的消息曝光后，引发了大规模的公愤，不过，还没有哪家报社对下属编辑当晚赴宴一事作出了解释。
And this is just the tip of the iceberg. My own survey of publicly available information about the prime minister’s movements reveals that in the 17 months since he has come to power, he has broken bread with prominent media figures on no fewer than 36 occasions. The list includes the presidents and chief editorial writers of numerous news agencies and national and local newspapers. Every one of these meals took place not in the prime minister’s official residence, but in the more intimate, convivial atmosphere of private restaurants.
这还只是冰山一角。我自己对目前能公开获得的安倍首相行踪信息展开的调查显示，在上台后的17个月里，他已不下36次宴请知名媒体人士。受邀名单上的人物包括了多家通讯社、国家级报社和地方报社的社长与主编。这些宴请没有一次发生在首相的官邸，都在氛围更亲密、更欢快的私人餐厅举行。
During the six months after the earthquake and tsunami of March 2011, Prime Minister Naoto Kan never dined with media personalities. Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda had just six such meals while he was in power, from September 2011 through December 2012 — an average of once every two months, compared with twice a month for Mr. Abe.
在2011年3月的地震海啸之后的半年里，首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)从未与媒体名人一起就餐。从2011年9月到2012年12月当政期间，野田佳彦(Yoshihiko Noda)也只举行过六次这样的餐宴，平均每两个月一次，而安倍晋三平均一个月两次。
Mr. Abe has made a priority of cultivating relations with the media. He has increased his cabinet’s media budget for this fiscal year by almost one-third over the previous year, to a total of roughly $64 million. And he is becoming increasingly blatant in his approach. Before the Yasukuni Shrine dinner, there was one on Dec. 16, not long after the enactment of the Special Secrets Protection Bill, a controversial law that could be used to jail journalists who publish, or just try to obtain, information that the government considers to be sensitive. Since then, he seems to have taken to holding meals with the media after all important political events.
安倍晋三把培养与媒体之间的关系作为重点。他将自己领导的内阁在本财政年度的媒体预算同比增加了近三分之一，总额达6400万美元左右（约合4亿元人民币）。而且，他的行为方式正变得越来越明目张胆。在参拜靖国神社当天的晚餐前，他就曾在《特定秘密保护法案》颁布后不久的12月16日举行过一次类似的餐会。这部法案颇具争议，可用于拘捕发表——或仅仅是尝试获取——被政府认为敏感的信息的记者。自那之后，他似乎养成了在所有重大政治活动结束后与媒体人士一起就餐的习惯。
The prime minister dined with former political editors on April 2, the day after Japan’s sales tax was raised from 5 percent to 8 percent. (It is a controversial move: An earlier such hike brought down the previous administration, led by the Democratic Party of Japan, paving the way for the return of Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party.) On May 15, the very night the prime minister announced that his administration was considering reinterpreting Japan’s pacifist Constitution to allow it to exercise its “right of collective self-defense,” the prime minister went out for sushi with many of the same editors he had dined with after the Special Secrets Protection Bill became law.
4月2日，也就是全国的销售税从5%提高到8%后的第二天，安倍晋三与一些前政治新闻编辑共同就餐。（此举颇具争议：增加销售税曾在早些时候导致日本民主党[Democratic Party]领导的前一届政府下台，为安倍晋三领导的自民党[Liberal Democratic Party]的回归铺平了道路。）5月15日，安倍晋三宣布，他领导的政府正在考虑重新解读日本的和平宪法，以允许日本行使自己的“集体自卫权”。就在当晚，他和一些编辑一起外出吃寿司，其中许多人是在《特定秘密保护法案》成为法律后与他共进晚餐的编辑。
Even worse than Mr. Abe’s efforts to ingratiate himself with the media is the media’s willingness to play along. Ever since the Meiji period, when Japan began struggling to transform itself into a modern nation-state, the media has been dominated by organizations known as “press clubs.” There are about 800 of these clubs in the country now, at levels ranging from the local to the national. Members gain privileged access to politicians and information, as well as the use of office space rent-free; freelancers are limited. As a result, many journalists naturally drift closer to authority over time. And the more established they are, the more incentive they have to act like “citizens the prime minister will respect.”
比安倍晋三讨好媒体的行为更糟糕的，是媒体愿意合作。自明治时期日本开始努力让自己变革成一个现代民族国家以来，媒体一直受到“记者俱乐部”的控制。全国目前有大约800个这种俱乐部，囊括从地方性到全国性的各种级别。组织成员会获得接触政界人士和信息的特权，还能免费使用办公空间；自由记者则处处受限。因此，随着时间的推移，许多记者自然会向权威靠拢。而且他们越有名望，像“首相敬重的公民”那样行事的动机就越大。
Mr. Abe has outdone previous prime ministers in exploiting this tendency. How much further can he go before Japan has no more newspapers its citizens will respect?
在利用这种趋势上，安倍晋三超过了他的历届前任。在日本民众不再敬重任何报纸之前，他还能走多远？