In the chaotic, fearful weeks after the Fukushima nuclear crisis began, in March 2011, researchers struggled to measure the radioactive fallout unleashed on the public. Michio Aoyama’s initial findings were more startling than most. As a senior scientist at the Japanese government’s Meteorological Research Institute, he said levels of radioactive cesium 137 in the surface water of the Pacific Ocean could be 10,000 times as high as contamination after Chernobyl, the world’s worst nuclear accident.
在2011年3月福岛核泄漏危机爆发后那混乱可怕的几周里，研究人员纷纷努力评测其对公众的核辐射影响。青山道夫(Michio Aoyama)最初的发现比大多数人的发现都骇人听闻。作为日本政府气象研究所(Meteorological Research Institute)的高级研究员，他说，太平洋表面水体中放射性铯137的浓度是世界上最严重的核泄露事故切尔诺贝利污染浓度的1万倍。
Two months later, as Mr. Aoyama prepared to publish his findings in a short, nonpeer-reviewed article for Nature, the director general of the institute called with an unusual demand — that Mr. Aoyama remove his own name from the paper.
两个月后，当青山先生准备将这一发现写成一篇短小、无同行评议的文章发表在《自然》(Nature)杂志上时，所长提出了一项不同寻常的要求：撤下文章署名。
“He said there were points he didn’t understand, or want to understand,” the researcher recalled. “I was later told that he did not want to say that Fukushima radioactivity was worse than Chernobyl.” The head of the institute, who has since retired, declined to comment for this article. Mr. Aoyama asked for his name to be removed, he said, and the article was not published.
“所长说文章里有的内容他不理解，或不想理解，”这位研究员回忆说。“后来，所长告诉我说，他不愿说福岛的辐射比切尔诺贝利更严重。”此后退休的研究所所长拒绝对本文置评。青山先生说，由于要求删除署名，这篇文章最终未能发表。
The pressure he felt is not unusual — only his decision to speak about it. Off the record, university researchers in Japan say that even now, three years after the triple meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, they feel under pressure to play down the impact of the disaster. Some say they cannot get funds or university support for their work. In several cases, the professors say, they have been obstructed or told to steer clear of data that might cause public “concern.”
研究人员受到压力，这并不罕见——但青山决定公开谈及辐射这件事，却十分不寻常。日本高校的研究员们私底下说，尽管福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的三次连续爆炸已经过去了三年，他们仍觉得受到一种无形压力，似乎淡化灾难影响才是明智之举。一些研究人员表示，他们无法获得资金或所在高校的支持，以从事相关研究工作。教授们说，在一些情况下，如果想发表可能引起公众“担忧”的数据，他们会受到阻挠或者直接被要求回避。
“Getting involved in this sort of research is dangerous politically,” said Joji Otaki, a biologist at Japan’s Ryukyu University who has written papers suggesting that radioactivity at Fukushima has triggered inherited deformities in a species of butterfly. His research is paid for through private donations, including crowdfunding, a sign, he said, that the public supports his work. “It’s an exceptional situation,” he said.
“从政治上说，进行这类研究是危险的，”日本琉球大学(Ryukyu University)生物学家让治大滝(Joji Otaki)说。他的研究报告显示福岛的辐射已经引起一种蝴蝶物种的遗传畸形。该研究是由私人捐款资助的，包括众筹资金。他说，这说明民众支持他的研究工作。“这样的情况是特例，”他说。
The precise health impact of the Fukushima disaster is disputed. The government has defined mandatory evacuation zones around the Daiichi plant as areas where cumulative dose levels might reach 20 millisieverts per year, the typical worldwide limit for nuclear-power-plant workers. The limit recommended by the International Commission on Radiological Protection is one millisievert per year for the public, though some scientists argue that below 100 millisieverts the threat of increased cancers is negligible.
福岛灾难对人们健康的精确影响仍有争议。政府将第一核电站周围核辐射累积剂量水平可能达到每年20毫西弗（全球核电站员工典型受辐射限制线）的区域规定为强制疏散区。虽然一些科学家认为在100毫西弗以下癌症增加的威胁可忽略不计，但国际放射防护委员会(International Commission on Radiological Protection)建议公众受到的辐射曝露量不能超过每年100毫西弗。
In an effort to lower radiation and persuade about 155,000 people to return home, the government is trying to decontaminate a large area by scraping away millions of tons of radioactive dirt and storing it in temporary dumps. Experts at Japan’s National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology put the cost of this project at $50 billion — widely considered an underestimate.
为了减少辐射，说服约15.5万民众返回家园，政府正试图移走数百万吨放射性尘土，存放在临时垃圾场，进行大面积净化。日本高级工业科学研究所(National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology)专家认为这一项目将花费500亿美元，但人们普遍认为这一费用被低估了。
The chance to study in this real-life laboratory has drawn a small number of researchers from around the world. Timothy A. Mousseau, a professor of biological sciences at the University of South Carolina who has written widely on Chernobyl, studies the impact of radiation on bird and insect life. He has published papers suggesting abnormalities and defects in some Fukushima species. But he said his three research excursions to Japan had been difficult.
因为有机会把这里在这个真实的大型实验室进行研究，世界各地的一小批研究员被吸引而来。发表过大量关于切尔诺贝利论文的南卡罗来纳大学生物学教授帝姆西·穆苏(Timothy A. Mousseau)研究了辐射对鸟类及昆虫生活的影响。他发表的文章显示，福岛的一些物种出现了反常和缺陷。但他表示，在日本的三次研究旅行都非常艰难。
In one case, a Japanese professor and two postdoctoral students dropped out of a joint research paper, telling him they could not risk association with his findings. “They felt it was too provocative and controversial,” he said, “and the postdocs were worried it could hamper their future job prospects.”
有一次，一名日本教授和两名博士后学生退出了一篇合作研究的文章，说他们不能冒险与他的研究产生任何瓜葛。“他们认为这么做太有煽动性，太有争议了，”他说，“博士后学生们担心这将影响他们的职业前程。”
Mr. Mousseau is careful to avoid comparisons with the Soviet Union, which arrested and even imprisoned scientists who studied Chernobyl. Nevertheless, he finds the lukewarm support for studies in Japan troubling: “It’s pretty clear that there is self-censorship or professors have been warned by their superiors that they must be very, very careful,” he said.
穆苏先生很小心，他避免将日本与苏联作比较，后者逮捕甚至囚禁了研究切尔诺贝利的科学家。然而，日本对研究的冷漠支持仍使他觉得烦恼：“很明显他们有自我审查，或是教授们收到了上面的警告，要他们万分小心，”他说。
The “more insidious censorship” is the lack of funding at a national level for these kinds of studies, he added. “They’re putting trillions of yen into moving dirt around and almost nothing into environmental assessment.”
“更隐匿的审查”在于国家不为这类研究提供资金，他进一步说。“他们花了数万亿日元挪走放射性泥土，却几乎没有对环境评估提供任何资金。”
Long before an earthquake and tsunami triggered the Fukushima meltdown, critics questioned the influence of Japan’s powerful nuclear lobby over the country’s top universities. Some professors say their careers have been hobbled because they expressed doubts about the nation’s nuclear policy and the coalition of bureaucrats, industrialists, politicians and elite academics who created it.
在地震和海啸引发福岛核泄漏前很久，批评人士就已经质疑强大的核能游说团体对日本顶尖大学的影响。一些教授说，由于他们对日本的核能政策以及官僚、产业资本家、政客和精英学者的结盟表达了疑虑，导致事业受挫。
Mr. Aoyama, who now works at Fukushima University, sees no evidence of an organized conspiracy in the lack of openness about radiation levels — just official timidity. Despite the problems with his Nature article, he has written or co-written eight published papers since 2011 on coastal water pollution and other radiation-linked themes.
目前在福岛大学(Fukushima University)工作的青山先生并未发现有证据显示辐射水平缺乏透明度是有组织的阴谋——这只是官方的胆怯。尽管他在《自然》杂志的文章出现了问题，不过，自2011年以来，他已经发表了8篇自写或合写的论文，涉及沿海水污染和其它与辐射相关的主题。
But stories of problems with Fukushima-related research are common, he said, including accounts of several professors’ being told not to measure radiation in the surrounding prefectures. “There are so many issues in our community,” he said. “The key phrase is ‘don’t cause panic.”’
但与福岛相关的研究遇到问题已是司空见惯，他举例说，几位教授被告之不能在相关县区测量辐射值。“学术界面临太多问题，”他说，“我们总是碰到这种评论：‘不要引起恐慌’”。
He is also critical of the flood of false rumors circulating about the reach of Fukushima’s radioactive payload.
他还批评说，有关福岛放射性污染物波及范围的谣言实在过于泛滥。
Ken Buesseler, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution’s department of marine chemistry and geochemistry, in Massachusetts, who has worked with Mr. Aoyama, said he has spent much of his professional energy fighting the rumor mill. The cause is not helped, he added, by institutional attempts to gag Japanese professors.
与青山共事的肯恩·比赛尔(Ken Buesseler)说，他花费了大量职业精力辟谣。他补充说，这种有组织地箝制日本教授的做法无益于公众利益。比赛尔是美国马萨诸塞州伍兹霍尔海洋研究所(Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)海洋化学和地质化学部门高级研究员。
“Researchers are told not to talk to the press, or they don’t feel comfortable about talking to the press without permission,” Mr. Buesseler said. A veteran of three post-earthquake research trips to Japan, he wants the authorities to put more money into investigating the impact on the food chain of Fukushima’s release of cesium and strontium. “Why isn’t the Japanese government paying for this, since they have most to gain?”
“有的研究员们被通知不能接受媒体报纸采访，有的在没有获得批准之前不愿意接受访问，”比赛尔说。这位经验丰富的研究员在震后去日本做过三次研究。他希望政府加大投入，调查福岛铯和锶的释放对食物链的影响。“为什么作为最大潜在受益者的日本政府反而不出资支持调查？”
One reason, critics say, is that after a period of national soul searching, when it looked as if Japan might scrap its commercial reactors, the government is again supporting nuclear power. Since the conservative Liberal Democrats returned to power, in late 2012, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has begun trying to sell Japan’s nuclear technology abroad.
批评者们说，一个原因是，在日本进行了一段时间的深刻自我反省之后，看似就要废弃其商业核反应堆时，却最终又调转头来支持核能。自从2012年底日本保守的自由民主党执政以来，首相安倍晋三就开始想把核技术卖到国外。
Professors, meanwhile, say that rather than simply defend what is a piecemeal approach to studying the disaster, the government should take the lead in creating a large, publicly financed project.
同时，教授们说，与其简单地捍卫零星的研究，不如由政府牵头，建立一项公共资助的大型研究项目。
“If we’ve ever going to make any headway into the environmental impact of these disasters, statistical power, scientific power, is what counts,” said Mr. Mousseau of the University of South Carolina. “We get at it with massive replication, by going to hundreds of locations. That costs money.”
 “如果我们要在这些灾难的环境影响方面取得突破性研究成功，统计和科学能力就至关重要，”南卡罗来纳大学的穆苏说。“我们的信息是通过大量重复和到处调研而得到的。这些都要花钱。”