TOKYO — For more than four years since the nuclear meltdowns in Fukushima in 2011, Japan has been debating whether it should permanently abandon a technology that went so disastrously wrong but that for years was seen as essential to its economy.
东京——2011年福岛发生核泄漏之后的四年多时间里，日本一直在讨论是否应该永远放弃这项技术。它带来了巨大的灾难性事故，但在过去多年里又一直被视为对日本经济至关重要的元素。
Governments have offered differing answers. The public has sent confusing signals.
日本政府内部出现了不同意见。公众释放的信号也令人困惑。
But on Tuesday, the country took what appeared to be a decisive step toward resurrecting the nuclear industry and ending a de facto freeze on the use of atomic power, as an electric utility restarted one of dozens of reactors that were taken offline after the Fukushima disaster.
不过本周二，日本一家电力公司重新启动了在福岛灾难之后关停的几十个核反应堆中的一座，日本似乎朝着复兴核工业、终止对原子能使用的事实冻结迈出了决定性的一步。
The reactor at the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant, in Kagoshima Prefecture, was the first to return to service since government regulators introduced upgraded safety standards two years ago. Most of Japan’s 48 operable commercial nuclear reactors were shut down soon after the meltdowns at Fukushima, and none have operated since 2013.
重新启动的是位于鹿儿岛县的川内核电站(Sendai Nuclear Power Plant)。它是政府监管部门两年前引入更高的安全标准之后首个恢复使用的核电站。福岛熔融事故后，日本48座可运行的商用核反应堆大多数关停，自2013年以来没有一个运行过。
The government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe supports restarting idled reactors that meet the enhanced safety standards, arguing that Japan’s economy depends on the low-cost power they provide.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的政府认为日本经济有赖于这些反应堆提供的低成本电力，支持重启达到提升后的安全标准的闲置反应堆。
Japan has few domestic energy sources, and it imports virtually all the fossil fuels it uses to power its homes and factories. Electricity prices in the country have increased 20 percent or more since the Fukushima disaster, squeezing households and businesses and obstructing efforts by Mr. Abe to stimulate the economy. Emissions of greenhouse gases have risen sharply, too.
日本国内没有什么能源，家庭和工厂供电所需的化石燃料基本靠进口。自福岛灾难发生以来，日本电价上涨了至少20%，让家庭和企业不堪重负的同时，也阻碍了安倍晋三提振日本经济的努力。温室气体排放也因之急剧增加。
The public remains skeptical about the plants’ safety, however, with surveys consistently showing that most Japanese favor closing the idled reactors permanently. A group of 150 to 200 protesters, including a former prime minister who turned against nuclear power after Fukushima, gathered outside the Sendai plant on Tuesday as the police stood guard, the Japanese news media reported.
不过，公众对核电站的安全性仍然持怀疑态度。民意调查一直显示，大多数日本人倾向于永远关停闲置的反应堆。日本媒体报道，周二有150到200名抗议者聚集在有警力部署的川内核电站外，其中包括在福岛事件后转而反对利用核能的一名前首相。
“By moving ahead with restarts, the Abe administration is leading a doomed country,” the former prime minister, Naoto Kan, was quoted as saying.
“通过重启核电站，安倍政府正在把日本引向毁灭，”媒体引用前首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)的话报道。
Mr. Kan was in office in 2011 during the crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant, which occurred after a huge tsunami struck the site in northeastern Japan and knocked out its cooling systems, setting off meltdowns at three of its six reactors and spreading contamination across a wide area. More than 100,000 people were evacuated, and many have yet to return home.
福岛第一核电站发生泄漏事故是在2011年，正值菅直人担任日本首相期间。当时，一场巨大的海啸袭击了位于日本东北部的福岛核电站，摧毁了它的冷却系统，导致六座反应堆中的三座发生了熔融，造成了大面积的核污染。有十多万人因此撤出福岛，现在还有很多没有返回家园。
But public opposition to nuclear power has not translated into victories for antinuclear politicians like Mr. Kan. Not long after the Fukushima accident, his government announced a policy of gradually phasing out nuclear power, but that foundered after his center-left party was defeated in an election in 2012.
然而，公众对核能的反对并没有变成菅直人等反核政届人士的胜利。福岛事件发生后不久，政府就宣布了一项逐步淘汰核能的政策，但他领导的中左派政党在2012年大选中失利，这项政策随之搁浅。
The more conservative, pro-nuclear party that replaced it, led by Mr. Abe, has won two subsequent parliamentary elections, despite its unpopular stance on nuclear energy. Its support has recently slipped, however, amid a separate and equally contentious political battle over defense policy, so the reactivation of a nuclear plant comes at a delicate time.
安倍晋三领导的更加保守、支持核能的政党取代了菅直人所在的政党，在接下来两次议会选举中获胜，尽管该政党在核能问题上的立场不受欢迎。该政党最近陷入了另一场同样具有争议的有关防御政策的政治斗争，其支持率有所下降，因此重启核电站的时机非常微妙。
“Abe has kept his focus on the economy, and the opposition is weak, so he has managed to win people’s support in spite of the fact that most don’t like his defense and nuclear policies,” Shinichi Nishikawa, a professor at Meiji University, said. “But the limits of that approach are starting to show.”
“安倍晋三一直将重点放在经济上，反对派非常弱小，因此他能够赢得民众的支持，尽管大部分人并不赞同他的防御政策及核政策，”明治大学(Meiji University)教授西川伸一(Shinichi Nishikawa)说。“但这种方式的限制性开始显现。”
The government and power companies have certainly tried to move cautiously. Plans to restart Sendai and other reactors have been in place since the revised safety regulations were introduced more than two years ago. The plants need to be retrofitted with new ventilation systems and other protections, and operators have needed to court local political leaders for endorsements to switch them back on. The Sendai plant was declared safe by regulators nearly a year ago, in September 2014.
政府和电力公司的确在设法谨慎行事。两年多前，政府推行经过修订的安全条例时，就已经制定了重启川内核电站反应堆及其他反应堆的计划。这些核电站需要翻新，安装新的通风系统和其他保护设备，经营者也需要设法获得当地政治领导人的支持，以重启反应堆。监管机构在大约一年前，也就是2014年9月，宣称川内核电站非常安全。
How extensive Japan’s nuclear revival will ultimately be remains unclear. Some of the 48 operable reactors around the country are considered too old to be worth the cost of retrofitting to meet the new safety standards. Concerns about earthquake faults found under or near others have kept them from winning approval from the government regulatory body, which was reorganized and given more independence after the Fukushima disaster.
目前尚不清楚日本核工业的复苏规模最终会有多大。日本全国各地共有48个可启动的反应堆，人们认为，其中一些反应堆过于老旧，不值得进行翻新以达到新的安全标准。在其他反应堆底下或附近发现的地震断层引发担忧，致使它们无法赢得政府监管机构的支持。福岛核事故发生后，这些机构进行重组，并获得更多独立性。
Power companies have applied for safety certification for about half the 48 units. So far only five, including the one restarted at Sendai, have been declared safe.
电力公司为总数48个中将近一半的反应堆申请安全认证。迄今为止，只有五个反应堆获得安全认证，其中包括已在仙台重启的那个反应堆。
The utility that owns the Sendai plant, Kyushu Electric Power, said it removed control rods from the core of the reactor at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, initiating the atomic reaction that will eventually produce electricity. It plans to start producing and transmitting electricity for its customers next month.
拥有川内核电站的九州电力(Kyushu Electric Power)表示，该公司于周二上午十点半移除了该反应堆中心部分的控制棒，启动了最终会产生电力的原子反应。该公司计划从下个月开始为客户发电、输电。