TOKYO — Taking his nation another step away from its postwar pacifism, the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe discarded a half-century ban on the export of weapons and military hardware on Tuesday, a move aimed at helping Japan assume a larger regional security role to offset China’s growing military might.
东京——周二，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)解除了半个世纪以来有关武器及军事装备的出口禁令，以便帮助日本在地区安全中发挥更大作用，与中国日益增长的军事力量相抗衡。此举让日本进一步远离了战后的和平主义方针。
The decision, which had been under consideration for years before Mr. Abe took office, replaced the self-imposed ban dating back to the late 1960s with new, still-restrictive guidelines that permit the export of weapons only to allies and partners that agree not to sell them to third nations without Japanese approval. The new guidelines will also make it easier for Japan to join multinational development projects for expensive new weapons systems, like the American-led effort to build the F-35 stealth fighter jet.
在安倍晋三上台之前的多年时间里，日本政府一直在考虑这一决定。作出这一决定之后，日本用依旧具有限制性的新原则代替了在20世纪60年代末自我施加的禁令，根据新原则，日本只能向盟友和合作伙伴出口武器，前提是这些国家同意不在没有征得日本许可的情况下向第三国出售武器。新原则还使日本更容易参与研发昂贵新武器系统的跨国项目，比如美国主导的F-35隐形战斗机研发项目。
The move formalizes a change that had already begun in incremental steps a few years ago, as Japan created a growing number of exceptions to its export ban, known as the “three principles.” The principles were one of the most visible pillars of Japan’s post-World War II renunciation of war along with its pacifist Constitution, which Mr. Abe has also said he wants to revise.
此举正式认可了日本从几年前开始逐步做出的改变，前几年，日本给自己的出口禁令“三原则”设立了越来越多的例外。这些原则是最为明显的支柱之一，支撑着日本二战后放弃战争的承诺及该国的和平宪法，后者也是安倍晋三声言要修改的东西。
Adopted in 1967, the three principles originally prohibited arms sales to Communist countries, countries under United Nations sanctions and countries in armed conflict, but it eventually grew into a blanket ban on all weapons exports.
于1967年实施的三原则起初只禁止日本向社会主义阵营国家、遭受联合国制裁的国家和武装冲突当事国出售武器，最终却演变成了全面的武器出口禁令。
Analysts said getting rid of the principles was partly aimed at opening new markets for Japanese defense companies at a time when Japan’s own military spending, while up for the first time in a decade, remains severely constrained by ballooning budget deficits. But they said Mr. Abe had finally decided to carry out the long-discussed change to achieve a larger strategic goal: increasing Japan’s regional influence by offering its technologically sophisticated defense hardware to other countries locked in territorial disputes with an increasingly assertive China.
分析人士表示，日本废除这些原则部分是为了给日本的防务公司开拓新市场，目前，日本本国的军费开支虽然出现了10年来的首次上涨，但仍然因为不断膨胀的预算赤字而受到严重限制。不过，分析人士表示，安倍晋三最终决定实施讨论已久的变革，目的是实现更大的战略目标：向因领土问题与日益强硬的中国陷入争端的其他国家提供高科技防御装备，由此增加日本的地区影响力。
Analysts described the decision as a step toward Mr. Abe’s goal of turning long-passive Japan, which has Asia’s second-largest economy after China, into a more proactive player in regional security. Japanese officials say Mr. Abe wants to do this by turning Japan into a full-fledged defense partner of the United States, which has guaranteed Japan’s security since the war but has recently been forced to cut military spending because of fiscal problems of its own.
分析人士称，这一决定是安倍晋三向自己的目标迈出的一步，他的目标是将长期处于被动地位的日本转变成更加积极主动的地区安全势力。日本仅次于中国，是亚洲第二大经济体。日本官员表示，安倍晋三想将日本转变成美国的全面国防合作伙伴，借此达成上述目标。二战结束后，美国一直在为日本提供安全保障，最近却因自身的财政问题被迫削减了军费开支。
American officials, who have long urged Japan to assume more of the defense burden, have said they will welcome a lifting of the ban.
美国官员曾表示，他们将欢迎日本解除禁令。长期以来，美国官员一直在敦促日本揽下更多防务负担。
Analysts say Japan is reacting to a shifting balance of power in the Asia-Pacific region brought by a relative decline in American dominance and a rapid military buildup by China. One of Japan’s responses has been to build military ties with nations other than the United States, including Australia and India. Analysts said ending the ban on weapons exports would help expand those ties by removing legal obstacles to proposed deals, including sales of Japanese-made diesel attack submarines to Australia and seaplanes to India.
分析人士表示，日本是在回应亚太地区力量格局的转变，因为美国的主导地位相对下降，而中国正在快速进行军备建设。日本对此作出的回应之一是和美国之外的一些国家建立军事联系，其中包括澳大利亚和印度。分析人士表示，取消武器出口禁令有助于扩展这种联系，原因是它为拟议中的一些交易消除了法律障碍，比如向澳大利亚出售日本制造的柴油攻击型潜艇，向印度出售水上飞机。
Tuesday’s move will also make it easier for Japan to provide military aid to less developed Southeast Asian countries, to help them respond to increasingly assertive Chinese claims to contested territories in the South China Sea.
日本在周二的举动还可以减少障碍，让它更容易向欠发达的东南亚国家提供军事援助，协助这些国家应对中国对南海争议领土提出的日益强硬的主权主张。
Japan has already been doing this to a limited degree, by supplying civilian coast guard ships to the Philippines, which is locked in a dispute with China over control of uninhabited islands. Experts said Tuesday’s move would make it easier for Japan to provide military equipment to help not only the Philippines but also Vietnam and Indonesia enforce their claims. They said the decision may also be an early step toward Japan’s eventually taking a more direct role that could include forming military alliances with Southeast Asian countries or dispatching Japanese warships to jointly patrol contested waters.
日本此前就在有限度地奉行这种战略，手段则是向菲律宾提供民用海岸巡逻船只，后者因一些无人岛屿的控制权与中国陷入了领土争端。专家表示，周二的决定不仅能方便日本向菲律宾提供军事装备援助，还能方便它以同样的方式帮助越南和印度尼西亚推行其领土主张。专家表示，这一决定还可能是日本谋求最终以更直接的方式参与军事行动的早期步骤，这些行动可能包括和东南亚各国组建军事联盟，或是派遣日本军舰联合巡逻争议水域。