TOKYO — Japan’s highest court on Wednesday upheld a law dating back more than a century that requires married couples to share the same surname, rejecting a claim that it discriminates against women by effectively forcing them to give up their names in favor of their husbands’.
东京——本周三，日本最高法院维持了一项有上百年历史的法律。该法要求已婚夫妇使用相同的姓氏。原告称它歧视女性，实际上是迫使她们放弃自己的姓氏，改用丈夫的姓氏，但这个主张被最高法院驳回。
The ruling was a blow to Japanese women seeking to keep their maiden names after marriage. Some couples have chosen not to register their marriages — opting instead to stay in common-law relationships with fewer legal protections — in order to keep separate surnames.
对于那些希望在婚后保持婚前姓氏的女性而言，这项裁决对她们是个打击。为了保持各自独立的姓氏，有些人决定不登记结婚，而是形成普通法伴侣关系，但法律对此给予的保护较少。
“When I heard the ruling I started crying, and even now it hurts,” said Kyoko Tsukamoto, 80, a retired high school teacher who was one of five plaintiffs trying to overturn the law.
“听到判决后，我哭了起来，直到现在都还挺伤心，”80岁的退休高中老师冢本协子(Kyoko Tsukamoto)说。她是试图推翻该法的是五名原告之一。
Ms. Tsukamoto, whose legal married name is Kojima, said she had “lost her identity” because of the ruling. She and her husband of 55 years registered their marriage decades ago only because they wished to prevent their three children from being born out of wedlock, which carries a strong stigma in Japan. They divorced and remarried between the children’s births, she said, in protest against the law.
冢本协子的法定婚后姓氏是小岛(Kojima)，她说这项裁决让自己“失去了身份”。冢本协子和相伴55年的丈夫之所以在数十年前登记结婚，完全是因为不想他们的三个小孩成为非婚生子女，那在日本是很大的耻辱。冢本京子说，为了抗议这项法律，他们在孩子出生后离婚，怀孕后又再复婚。
“My name is Kyoto Tsukamoto, but I can’t live or die as Kyoko Tsukamoto,” she said, alluding to the lack of official recognition for her preferred name in government records and other official contexts.
“我的名字是冢本协子，但我无论活着还是死后，都不能用冢本协子这个名字。”她指的是，在政府记录及其他官方场合中，她希望使用的名字没有获得正式认可。
The prohibition against separate surnames has survived decades of challenges in the courts and in Parliament, but it was the first time a suit seeking to overturn it had reached the Supreme Court. Ten of the court’s 15 justices ruled that the ban, first imposed in 1898, was consistent with the constitutional protections for gender equality.
几十年来，禁止夫妇使用不同姓氏的法律不断在法院和国会遭受挑战，但这是第一次有人诉至最高法院，要求予以推翻。该禁令最初于1898年开始施行，最高法院的15名大法官中，这次有10名认为它并未违反宪法保护的性别平等权利。
Although the law does not specify which spouse’s surname must be used, wives adopt their husbands’ names in an estimated 95 percent of cases.
虽然法律没有明确规定必须使用夫妇哪一方的姓氏。但估计有95%的情况是妻子改用丈夫的姓氏。
The chief justice, Itsuro Terada, said the law did not impose an undue burden on women partly because they could continue using their maiden names in their professional lives, a practice that has become more widely accepted in recent years.
首席大法官寺田逸郎(Itsuro Terada)表示，这项法律并没有给女性带来不当的负担，一个原因在于，她们可以在工作中继续使用婚前姓氏。近年来，这种做法在日本变得更加普遍。
The government began allowing married civil servants, for instance, to use their former surnames for official business in 2001.
例如在2001年，政府开始允许已婚公务员使用自己婚前的姓氏。
“The issue of separate names for spouses should be debated in Parliament,” Justice Terada said, throwing the issue back to the legislature.
“夫妇别姓的问题，应该在国会加以辩论，”寺田逸郎大法官说。因此，他把这个议题踢回了立法机关。
The government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will have to calibrate its response carefully. Mr. Abe has positioned himself as an ally of working women, contending that Japan needs to keep more women in the labor force as its population shrinks and ages. But many members of his right-leaning Liberal Democratic Party support the surname law, and the party has quashed previous parliamentary initiatives aimed at changing it.
对于这个问题，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府必须小心应对。安倍晋三一向以职业女性的盟友自居，认为随着日本人口的缩减和老龄化，需要让更多女性进入劳动力市场。但在他的右翼党派自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)中，有很多成员支持这项姓氏法律，该党还曾在国会阻止了旨在改变这项法律的几次提议。
Newspaper surveys have shown that a slim majority of the public favors changing the law to allow couples to keep separate surnames.
报纸的问卷调查显示，赞同修改法律来让夫妇双方保持独立姓氏的日本民众占微弱多数。
The plaintiffs first filed suit against the law in 2011 and had appealed to the Supreme Court after two lower courts rejected their claims. They were seeking 6 million yen, or about $50,000, in damages, but their more pressing goal, they said, was to force the government to change the law.
该案的原告最初在2011年提起了诉讼，遭到两个下级法院驳回之后，他们上诉至最高法院。原告要求得到600万日元（约合32万元人民币）的赔偿金，但他们表示更迫切的目标是迫使政府修改法律。
In a separate decision on Wednesday that was more heartening for women’s rights campaigners, the Supreme Court struck down a rule requiring divorced women to wait at least 150 days before remarrying. The rule is intended to prevent confusion over paternity in cases in which the divorcing woman is pregnant, but critics called it outdated and sexist.
在女权活动人士看来，最高法院本周三做出的另一项决定更加鼓舞人心一些。它推翻了之前的一项规定。该规定要求离婚女性至少等待150天之后才能再婚，目的是避免离婚女性如若怀孕带来的亲子认定麻烦，但批评者称其早已过时，而且具有性别歧视性质。
The court did not reject the basic principle of a waiting period, however, but merely demanded a shorter time frame, saying that anything over 100 days was an unconstitutional burden.
不过，最高法院并没有否定“等待期”的基本原则，仅仅是要求缩短这个时长。法院称，期限超过100天是一种负担，违反了宪法。