The police in Japan have arrested the country’s longest-sought fugitive, ending the hunt for a radical leftist accused of killing a police officer nearly 46 years ago.
日本警方逮捕了该国追捕时间最长的逃犯，结束了近46年的追捕，嫌疑人是一名激进左派人士，被控杀害一名警员。
The authorities this week confirmed the identity of the fugitive, Masaaki Osaka, 67, who was arrested last month in Hiroshima on a separate charge and refused to give his name, according to Kyodo, the Japanese news agency.
这名逃犯是67岁的大阪正明(Masaaki Osaka)，日本通讯社共同社表示，当局在本周证实了他的身份。上个月他在广岛因另外一个指控被捕，但拒绝透露自己的名字。
The police said they identified Mr. Osaka through DNA testing. A new arrest warrant was issued on Wednesday.
警方表示，他们通过DNA检测确定了大阪正明的身份，于本周三发布了新的逮捕令。
Mr. Osaka is accused of killing Tsuneo Nakamura, a Tokyo police officer, on Nov. 14, 1971, when he threw a homemade gasoline bomb during a protest in Japan’s capital. Both men were 21 at the time.
大阪正明被指控在1971年11月14日杀害了东京警员中村恒雄(Tsuneo Nakamura)，当时他在日本首都的一个抗议活动中向其投掷了一枚自制汽油弹。两人当时都是21岁。
The police clashed with thousands of activists during the protest against a treaty between the United States and Japan that resulted in the reversion of Osaka’s sovereignty to the Japanese government but allowed for a continued American military presence in the prefecture. Mr. Nakamura was killed and three other officers were wounded in the Tokyo riot. The police arrested 312 student radicals in the capital, according to news reports from the time.
那次活动抗议的是美日之间的一个条约，它将冲绳的主权归还给日本政府，但允许美国继续驻军，当时警方与数以千计的活动者发生冲突。除中村恒雄遇难外，另有三名警员在东京暴乱中受伤。据当时的媒体报道，警方在东京逮捕了312名学生激进分子。
Mr. Osaka was a leading member of the Japan Revolutionary Communist League-National Committee, a far-left revolutionary organization commonly known as Chukaku-ha.
大阪正明是日本革命的共产主义者同盟全国委员(Japan Revolutionary Communist League-National Committee)会领导成员，这是一个极左派革命组织，通常被称为Chukaku-ha。
It is believed that members of the group kept Mr. Osaka hidden for years, according to The Japan Times. On May 18, during an investigation of another leftist, the police raided an apartment in Hiroshima, where they were confronted by a man who tried to stop them from entering.
据《日本时报》(The Japan Times)报道，据信是该组织的成员将大阪正明藏了这么多年。5月18日，在对另一名左派成员进行调查时，警方突击搜查了广岛的一间公寓，在那里他们遇到一名男子，试图阻止他们进入公寓。
That man, who the authorities later suspected was Mr. Osaka, has remained silent, refusing to answer investigators’ questions, even about his name, for weeks.
当局后来怀疑这个人就是大阪正明，几个星期来，他一直保持沉默，拒绝回答调查人员的问题，连自己的名字都不透露。
The country has one of the lowest murder rates in the developed world, and the police take pride in quickly solving more than 90 percent of the murders they investigate, according to United Nations statistics.
联合国的统计显示，日本是发达国家谋杀率最低的国家之一，该国警方自豪地表示，在他们调查的谋杀案件中，90%以上都会迅速破案。
Criminals are typically caught swiftly. In 2012, however, the police arrested another long-sought suspect, Naoko Kikuchi, 40, in connection with the role the authorities said she played in the deadly 1995 poison gas attack on Tokyo’s subway by the Aum Shinrikyo cult.
在日本，犯罪分子通常会被迅速抓获。不过在2012年，警方逮捕了另一名长期追缉的嫌疑犯，40岁的菊地直子(Naoko Kikuchi)，当局说她曾参与奥姆真理教1995年对东京地铁发动的毒气袭击。