TOKYO — When Yasunari Kawabata became the first Japanese to receive the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1968, he gave a speech called “Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself” that presented a benignly aesthetic portrait of the so-called Japanese spirit larded with references to classical poetry, the tea ceremony and ikebana. When Kenzaburo Oe received the prize in 1994, he titled his lecture, “Japan, the Ambiguous, and Myself,” and offered a critical take on the country’s ambiguities, starting its being part of Asia and simultaneously aligned with the West.
东京——川端康成(Yasunari Kawabata)在1968年获得诺贝尔文学奖、成为日本首位获此殊荣的作家时，他发表了题为《美丽的日本与我》(Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself)的演讲，唯美地讲述了所谓的日本精神，还多次引用日本的经典诗句，并提及茶道和插花。而当大江健三郎(Kenzaburo Oe)在1994年获得该奖项时，他的演讲题目是《暧昧的日本与我》(Japan, the Ambiguous, and Myself)，他从日本作为亚洲国家却与西方结盟一事说起，以批判的立场谈论了日本诸多的暧昧之处。
I was reminded of the contrast between Japan the Beautiful and Japan the Ambiguous late last month when, during the third Nuclear Security Summit in the Hague, the Japanese government announced that it would hand over to the United States more than 700 pounds of weapons-grade plutonium and a vast supply of highly enriched uranium. It struck me then that the ambiguities of Japan’s policy on nuclear weapons might be coming up against the nationalist agenda of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, also the author of “Towards a Beautiful Country: My Vision for Japan.”
上个月末，我又想起了日本的“美丽”和“暧昧”之间的反差。当时，日本政府在海牙的核安全峰会上宣布，将向美国移交超过700磅（约合300多公斤）武器级钚和大量的高浓缩铀。我那时突然想到，日本在核武器政策上的暧昧，可能与《致美丽的国家：我对日本的愿景》(Towards a Beautiful Country: My Vision for Japan)的作者、日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的民族主义议程相悖。
Although Japan does not have nuclear weapons, it has a nuclear weapons policy. The strategy was set out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1969 in an internal document whose existence was kept secret until the daily Mainichi Shimbun published it in 1994. That paper states that “for the time being we will maintain the policy of not possessing nuclear weapons” but also “keep the economic and technical potential for the production of nuclear weapons, while seeing to it that Japan will not be interfered with in this regard.” Known as “technological deterrence,” this posture is inherently ambiguous, and has been made more so still by the ministry’s insistence that the document was a research paper rather than a statement of policy.
尽管日本并不拥有核武器，但日本有核武器政策。这个战略是日本外务省在1969年的一份内部文件中提出的。此份文件的存在一直秘而不宣，直到《每日新闻》(Mainichi Shimbun)在1994年刊出了这份文件。该文件称，“我们暂时将保持不拥有核武器的政策，”但同时“保有制造核武器的经济和技术潜力，同时确保日本在这方面不会受到干预。”这种姿态也被称作“技术威慑”，它本质上就是暧昧不清的，而日本外务省坚称该文件是研究报告而不是政策表述，这种做法更强化了它的暧昧性。
In a 2000 essay about the future of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, the disarmament advocate Jonathan Schell drew a distinction between capacity and intention in describing the range of positions states may adopt on nuclear weapons. At the time, Sweden had the capacity to produce such weapons but not the intention; Libya had the intention but not the capacity. Japan, by contrast, stands out as the only nation that has both the capacity and the intention to produce nuclear weapons but does not act on its intention. It has pioneered a type of nuclear deterrence that relies not on any overt threat, but on the mere suggestion of a latent possibility.
在2000年发表的讨论《不扩散核武器条约》(Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty)前景的文章中，裁军倡导者乔纳森·谢尔(Jonathan Schell)在描述各国在核武器问题上可能采取的立场时，对实力和意图进行了区分。当时，瑞典拥有制造核武器的能力，却没有这种意图；利比亚有意图，却没有能力。相比之下，日本是唯一既拥有制造核武器的能力，又有这种意图的国家，但却没有采取行动。它开创了一种类型的核威慑，这种核威慑依靠的不是任何公开的威胁，而仅仅是对一种潜在可能性的暗示。
Despite all the evidence to this effect, the Japanese government has continued to deny that it has pursued technological deterrence because acknowledging this would both contravene the spirit of the N.P.T. and anger the Japanese people, who remain strongly opposed to nuclear weapons. Thus Japan has managed to signal to other countries that it could produce nuclear weapons, and that it would if it had to, while simultaneously making it hard for anyone, either at home or abroad, to object.
尽管各种事实都显示了上述威慑效果，但日本政府仍然否认其寻求技术威慑，因为如果承认了这一点，它将违背《不扩散核武器条约》的精神，而且还会激怒日本民众。日本人一直强烈反对核武器。于是，日本成功地向其他国家表明，它可以制造核武器，而且如果有必要也会这么做，同时又让何人都难以提出指摘，无论在国内还是国外。
On the one hand, since the 1970s Japan has pursued a pacifist foreign policy best symbolized by its Three Non-Nuclear Principles: “Japan shall neither possess nor manufacture nuclear weapons, nor shall it permit their introduction into Japanese territory.” On the other hand, starting in the 1950s it has implemented a nuclear energy policy centered on a closed nuclear fuel cycle, which yields nuclear materials that can be used to run so-called fast-breeding reactors. Japan has one such facility, which it uses for research, but it has been plagued by problems and is not commercially viable. Although the fuel cycle yields plutonium through the reprocessing of spent fuel, Japan has managed to escape the usual restrictions on the possession of such materials by stressing its commitment to the Three Non-Nuclear Principles and so, implicitly, its special status as the only country in the world to have suffered atomic bombings.
一方面，日本自上世纪70年代以来一直寻求和平主义的外交政策，最能体现这一点的就是“非核三原则”：“日本将既不拥有、也不制造核武器，也不允许将核武器引进日本领土。”另一方面，从上世纪50年代开始，日本实施了以封闭核燃料循环为核心的核能政策，这样生产出的核燃料可被用于支持所谓的快中子增殖反应堆。日本有一个这样的设施，用来开展研究，但已经出现大量问题，目前不具有商业可行性。尽管核燃料循环可以通过对废料再加工来生产钚，但通过强调其坚持非核三原则的决心，以及作为世界上唯一遭受过原子弹袭击的国家的特殊身份（不过这个因素并未言明），日本已经成功逃避了通常状况下对拥有此类材料的限制。
But now the two props of Japan’s not-so-secret strategy of technological deterrence are falling apart. The Abe cabinet has adopted a confrontational stance toward Japan’s East Asian neighbors. It has weakened the country’s previous commitment to not exporting arms to certain types of countries, including those subject to arms embargoes or involved in international conflicts. Other countries, sensing that the Abe administration may want to jettison the Three Non-Nuclear Principles, have begun expressing concern over Japan’s stores of plutonium.
但如今，日本技术威慑策略已经不再是秘密，而这一策略的两个支柱也正在瓦解。安倍内阁对东亚邻国采取了对抗性立场。它还弱化了日本之前不向特定类型的国家出口武器的承诺，这些特定国家包括遭武器禁运，或卷入国际冲突的国家。其他国家察觉到了安倍政府可能想要放弃非核三原则，已经开始表达对日本钚储备的担忧。
At the same time, the government is finding it increasingly difficult to explain why Japan should maintain its fuel-cycle policy. In the wake of the Fukushima disaster in 2011, none of Japan’s 48 commercial nuclear reactors is currently in operation, and popular opinion is mounting against the idea of developing more special fast-breeder reactors.
与此同时，日本政府已经发现，越来越难以解释为何应该继续实施核燃料循环政策。2011年的福岛核事故后，日本48个商业核反应堆目前全部停运，公众对研发更多专门的快中子增殖反应堆的想法，表达了越来越强烈的反对。
To make matters worse, the U.S.-Japan nuclear cooperation agreement that came into force in 1988 — which allows Japan to recover and store plutonium derived from fuel the United States supplied for Japan’s power plants — is set to expire in 2018. The agreement had widely been expected to be renewed. But then in January the U.S. government requested the return of some plutonium and highly enriched uranium it lent to Japan for research purposes under another, older, agreement. (These are the materials Japan agreed to return last month.) On the face of it, Washington’s request appears to be merely one part of a broader effort to ensure the security of nuclear materials. Yet it has sparked speculation both in Japan and abroad that the U.S. government is worried about the Abe government’s belligerence and may be reconsidering extending the 1988 cooperation agreement.
更糟糕的是，1988年生效的《日美原子能协定》将于2018年到期，这个协定允许日本回收和储存从美国提供给日本核电站的燃料中提取的钚。外界普遍认为协定将延期。但今年1月，美国政府要求日本归还一些钚和高浓缩铀（也就是日本上个月同意归还的材料）。这些核材料是美国根据另一份更早协议借给日本的，供日本研究使用。表面上看，华盛顿的要求似乎只是确保核材料安全的广泛行动的一部分。然而，此举已在日本国内外引发了猜测，认为美国政府对安倍政府的好斗姿态产生了忧虑，可能正在重新考虑是否延长1988年的协定。
If Mr. Abe keeps pushing ahead with his confrontational agenda, his government may lose Washington’s support. In that case, Japan will either have to submit to the same rules that apply to other countries on nuclear materials or isolate itself by openly flouting them. One can only hope that Japan’s unusual approach to nuclear deterrence will, in the end, have a deterrent effect on Mr. Abe himself — that ambiguity will win out over beauty.
如果安倍继续推进对抗性的议程，他的政府可能会失去美国的支持。那样的话，日本要么就必须遵守适用于其他国家的核材料方面的规定，要么就会因为藐视这些规定而陷入孤立。我们只能指望，日本不同寻常的核威慑手段最终将对安倍本人产生震慑效果——让他知道，暧昧将遮盖日本的美丽。