KYOTO, Japan — Wearing a pearl gray kimono, Reiko Tomimori, 62, bows deeply while greeting guests to Ochaya Tomikiku, her teahouse in the Gion district. Then she escorts them to a room on the second floor where geishas or soon-to-be geishas, who are called maikos, entertain them.
日本京都——祇园区富菊茶社62岁的老板富森玲子身穿珍珠灰色和服，向宾客们深深鞠躬，然后领着客人来到二楼，让艺妓和舞妓（即学徒艺妓）招待他们。
Ms. Tomimori looks conventional, but much at her teahouse is evolving, beginning with the growing number of foreign customers who visit. They may be guests of one of the more than 30 international companies here that use geishas to entertain clients.
富森女士看上去很传统，但是随着愈来愈多的外国游客前来拜访，她的茶社也在不断改进。京都有30多家国际公司经常用艺妓来款待客户，富森女士的外国客人们可能也是被其中某家公司带来的。
Recently, Ms. Tomimori, in a break with accustomed practice, has started to admit visitors who do not have an invitation or an escort but want to spend time in the company of geishas. A few other teahouses, or ochayas, are doing the same.
最近，富森女士又做了打破传统的改变，她允许客人不经邀请或没有熟客陪伴就上门，只要他们想找艺妓作陪就可以来。还有一些茶社(ochaya)也采取了这样的做法。
“Traditionally this business is closed except to regular customers,” Ms. Tomimori said. But with Japan’s economy continuing to suffer and a decline in corporate spending depressing local attendance, she began hosting foreigners as a financial hedge. In the process she created a bilingual teahouse that is playing a small role in international business.
“传统上，这个行业只接待熟客，” 富森女士说。但随着日本经济持续不景气，公司支出不断走低，本地招待业也受了影响，为了增加收入，富森开始接待外国游客。她创立了一家双语茶社，在国际商务中扮演了一个小小的角色。
Ms. Tomimori is fluent in English, as is the younger of her two trainees, the maiko Tomitsuyu.
富森说一口流利的英语，两个在这里受训的舞妓中，较为年轻的富津愈(Tomitsuyu)英语也很好。
“Most of the customers, it is their first time to see maiko-san or geiko-san and they always look very interested in this kind of culture,” Tomitsuyu, 18, said, using the regional term geiko for geisha. (Maikos in Kyoto use a single name that they are given when they join a teahouse.)
“大多数客人是第一次看到舞妓和艺妓，他们对这种文化很感兴趣，”18岁的富津愈说，她说“艺妓”的时候有带本地口音，京都的舞妓在茶社大都使用单字的艺名。
Her language skills, acquired as an exchange student in New Zealand, enable her to converse with English-speaking guests, answering questions about her life, family and training. “The female customers ask me questions about kimono and makeup,” she said.
她曾经去新西兰做过交换学生，所以英语很好，能同说英语的客人交流，回答他们的问题，人们对她的生活、她的家庭和她所受的训练都很好奇。“女客人经常问我和服与化妆方面的事。”
Typically, geishas act as hostesses, engaging in witty conversation and encouraging guests to mingle. They prepare and serve food, tea and other beverages and perform traditional dances and songs. Some play the shamisen, a stringed instrument. An hourlong tea ceremony for six guests with one maiko costs about $250.
一般来说，艺妓充当着女主人的角色，要和客人进行机智的对话，鼓励客人们多交际。她们精心准备食物、茶水和其他饮料，亲手端给客人，并为他们表演传统歌舞。有些人还会弹奏三味线，这是一种传统的弦乐乐器。由一位舞妓主持，六位客人参与，为时一小时的茶会费用是250美元（约1552元人民币）。
The geisha’s appearance is based on tradition. Dress and makeup evolve along a geisha’s career. The maikos, because they are young, often wear bright colors. Older geishas tone down the color palette of their kimono. While geishas are often thought of as sexual companions of sponsors, and in earlier times might have offered sexual experiences for a price, it is generally agreed that this practice has been abandoned. Tomitsuyu said that the suggestion of prostitution was inaccurate and troubling.
艺妓按传统方式打扮自己。她们的服装和妆容都随事业生涯的发展而改变。年轻的舞妓一般穿鲜艳的衣服，年长一些的艺妓会穿颜色温和一些的和服。人们经常认为艺妓是主顾的性伴侣，在早年间，艺妓也会从事卖淫，如今这种行为已经被公认为不复存在。富津愈说，有关艺妓卖淫的想法是不准确的，也令她们感到困扰。
Discussing how she and other trainees are paid, Tomitsuyu said that the teahouse owner was a kind of agent. Ms. Tomimori takes care of expenses like kimonos, makeup fees, lessons and hairdressers. Everything Tomitsuyu earns for five years as a maiko goes to Ms. Tomimori. Tomitsuyu receives a small allowance.
她说起像她这样的受训舞妓们的报酬问题：茶社主人扮演中介式的角色。富森女士负责和服、化妆、上课和理发等事项的费用，富津愈在舞妓培训期的五年内赚取的钱都要归富森女士，她本人只能得到一小笔津贴。
Most other teahouse owners are resisting following Ms. Tomimori in welcoming foreigners without an escort and allowing geishas to speak English.
大部分茶社主人都不愿意像富森女士那样允许外国人不经陪伴就上门拜访，并和艺妓说英语。
Fumie Komai, the mama-san of the 100-year-old Komayah teahouse, said she had no interest in unaccompanied foreigners. Though many regular customers entertain non-Japanese business associates, she leaves it to them to translate the conversation between the guests and the geishas.
小舞文枝（Fumie Komai，音译）是拥有百年历史的Komayah茶社的妈妈桑，她说自己对没人作陪的外国客人不感兴趣。尽管很多常客都会在这里招待外国商业伙伴，她还是希望由日裔常客们在外国客人与艺妓之间充当翻译。
“It doesn’t make sense if maiko-san is speaking English or Spanish or French,” she said. “It doesn’t look nice, it doesn’t look like tradition.”
“舞妓说英文、西班牙文或者法文根本就没有意义，”她说。“这看起来不美，一点也不传统。”
Four maikos, three apprentices training to be maikos and two geishas live on the other side of an unmarked door of Ms. Komai’s teahouse, also in the Gion district. The public area offers floor seating around low tables and a wooden cocktail bar tended by the apprentices. Recorded piano music plays American easy-listening standards in the background.
小舞女士的茶社也在祇园区，四个舞妓、三个舞妓学徒和两个艺妓住在茶社另一端，门上没有标记。茶社的公共区域内有矮桌、放在地上的坐垫，还有一个鸡尾酒吧台，由学徒们负责照管。背景音乐是唱机里放的美国轻音乐钢琴名曲。
Ms. Komai’s comments were translated by a customer, Ken Yokoyama, general manager of the Hyatt Regency hotel here, who is among those calling for more access to ochayas for outsiders.
一位名叫横山健的客人帮忙为小舞女士做翻译，他是本地凯悦酒店的总经理，他也主张茶社为局外人打开更多方便之门。
Like many Japanese men, Mr. Yokoyama had never seen a geisha performance until he moved to the city nine years ago and was invited to Komayah. He understood the teahouse was a secret society; only later did he discover how it could help him with his business.
横山先生之前和许多日本男人一样，从来没有看过艺妓表演，直到九年前搬到京都，受邀来到Komayah。他觉得茶社就像一个秘密会社；后来才发现它对自己的生意也有帮助。
After Mr. Yokoyama’s visit, Ms. Komai told him he was welcome to bring guests and he started to do so. Business associates at the hotel understood the unusual nature of the experience he was providing, and he said it helped him close deals.
小舞女士告诉横山先生，他可以带客人一起来，他也就欣然照办。酒店的生意伙伴都觉得看艺妓表演是一种与众不同的体验，横山说，这帮他谈成了不少生意。
“You have no chance to access the ochaya-san, and you never ever speak to the maiko and exchange business cards, talking to them,” he said. “So this is amazing, unique and people appreciate it.”
“你以前根本没有机会走进茶社，从来没有和舞妓说过话，现在可以一边互换名片一边和她们聊天了，”他说。“所以这很有意思，很独特，人们喜欢这样。”
Mr. Yokoyama sometimes invites a hotel guest or a visiting journalist, which is how I happened to be warming my feet on the floor heater below our table. Toshiemi, a 16-year-old maiko, sat nearby, swathed in silk, with an elaborate hairstyle big enough to contain a dangly metal ornament and a spray of spring flowers that fell to one side of her white painted cheek. A maiko’s hair is highly styled, and to maintain it she must sleep on a special pillow. Geishas are allowed to wear wigs.
横山有时候带酒店的客人或访问记者前来这里，正因如此，笔者才有缘在这家茶社矮桌底下的地热之上温暖双脚。16岁的舞妓Toshiemi坐在一旁，身裹绫罗，发型经过悉心打理，巨大的发髻上摇曳着一支金属饰物，一枝春日的鲜花从发间垂下来，映衬着她被涂得雪白的一侧面颊。舞妓会留一种非常高的发型，为了维持这个发型，她得睡一种特殊的枕头。艺妓则允许戴假发。
Only her lower lip bore lipstick, a sign of her junior status.
她只有下唇涂了口红，这说明她仍是初学等级。
She was all smiles and delicate gestures as she sat with us, seemingly amused by our conversation. Or was she pretending? After all, her job is cultivating conviviality. This is why Japanese businesses invite clients to teahouses or hire maikos and geishas, according to the city’s convention and tourism bureau. Few companies were willing to talk about that on the record.
她坐在我们身边，一直微笑着，做着微妙的手势，似乎觉得我们的对话很有意思。又或者她只是假装在听？不管怎样，助兴就是她的工作。所以日本商人会根据城市的习俗以及旅游局的规定，带客户来茶社，或者聘请舞妓和艺妓。不过几乎没有公司愿意为此接受正式在案的采访。
One that did is Kyocera, the multinational electronics corporation. Geishas and maikos perform at the corporate guesthouse on occasion, and clients “seem to appreciate” it, said Elly Yoshikawa, deputy manager of corporate communications, adding, “It’s considered a good way of making clients feel they are welcome and special guests.”
只有京瓷集团是个例外，这是一家跨国电子公司。偶尔会邀请艺妓和舞妓到公司会客厅表演，公司公关部副经理伊莉·吉川(Elly Yoshikawa)说，客户们对此“非常欣赏”，她还说，“我们觉得这是个好办法，可以让客户们觉得自己是受欢迎的贵宾。”
Companies know the value of the geishas even if they cannot quantify it, Rie Doi, of the convention and tourism bureau, said. “Businesses want to say, ‘We made success by ourselves,’ but maiko and geiko also help,” Ms. Doi said.
公司们就算不知道艺妓的作用有多大，也了解她们的价值，日本风俗与旅游局的土居利荣（Rie Doi，音译）说。“公司们总在说，‘成功都是我们自己打造的’，但舞妓和艺妓们也帮了忙。”
In her second-floor tearoom, Ms. Tomimori said that for the foreign guest, the experience was not just about watching the dance, or even speaking to the geishas. The women create an atmosphere where guests are made to feel special and the host magnanimous.
富森女士说，富菊茶社的二楼是专为外国客人准备的，客人不仅可以观看舞蹈，还能同艺妓交谈。她们营造出一种氛围，令客人觉得宾至如归。
“We don’t interfere, and we don’t talk about that meeting any other place,” Ms. Tomimori said, explaining why her clients brought their customers to Ochaya Tomikiku. “They trust us, and that kind of atmosphere affects the meeting.”
“我们并不介入，我们也不在其他场合说起发生在这里的会面，”富森女士解释客人为什么愿意把商业客户带到富菊茶社来。“他们信任我们，这种气氛有助于会面顺利进行。”
Only about 250 geishas and maikos remain in this city. But even as their numbers dwindle, the geishas remain an enduring and widely recognized symbol of Japan. For several centuries they have embodied the nation’s art, music, culture and hospitality. Now it appears they are part of international commerce, as well.
这座城市里如今还有250个艺妓和舞妓。尽管数量有所缩减，长期以来，艺妓仍被公认为日本的象征。几个世纪之前，她们的身影曾经出现在这个国家的艺术、音乐、文化与待客之道中。如今她们似乎也成了国际商务的一部分。