TOKYO — Burdened by weaker consumer spending and exports, Japan’s economy contracted in the second quarter, government data showed on Monday, the first such setback since a short but painful recession last year.
东京——受到消费和出口疲弱的拖累，周一日本政府公布的数据表明，日本经济在第二季度出现萎缩，这是日本经济自去年短暂但痛苦的衰退以来第一次受挫。
The Cabinet Office said gross domestic product fell at an annualized rate of 1.6 percent in the three months through June.
日本内阁表示第二季度日本GDP年化降幅达到1.6%。
Japanese growth rates have fluctuated wildly in recent quarters, and the latest downturn only partially erased gains from a strong expansion in the first quarter, which the government now estimates at 4.5 percent. Last year was even more volatile: Consumer spending surged before a sales tax increase in April 2014, lifting the economy to its fastest pace in years, then evaporated afterward, setting off a recession.
最近的几个季度，日本GDP增速大幅波动，最近一次的下滑仅部分抹消了第一季度的强势扩张，据估计第一季度的增速达到4.5%。去年，日本经济的波动性更强：消费支出在2014年4月提升消费税之前的井喷式增长，推动日本经济实现近年来最快速的增长，此后出现下行趋势，开始了新一阶段的衰退。
The size of the contraction in the quarter through June was roughly in line with the expectations of private-sector economists. In surveys by news agencies, analysts had forecast an annualized contraction of 1.8 percent to 1.9 percent, on average.
第二季度的经济萎缩符合私人部门经济学家的预期。一份新闻机构进行的调查表明，分析人士在此前已经预测萎缩幅度平均将达到1.8-1.9%。
But economists say the tide may be turning back to growth in the current quarter. In a recent survey by the Japan Center for Economic Research, an affiliate of Nikkei, Japan’s largest financial newspaper, 40 analysts predicted that growth would rebound by an average 2.5 percent in the period from July to September.
但是经济学家认为这一趋势将在下一季度得到扭转，实现经济的正增长。最近，由日本最大的经济类报纸日经新闻旗下的日本经济研究中心进行的一项调查显示，40个分析人士预测第三季度日本增速将反弹至2.5%。
“Temporary factors were a big part of it, though I’m not saying the only part,” Akira Amari, the economy minister, told reporters, referring to the second-quarter downturn. Rainy, cool weather in June hurt sales of air conditioners — a major seasonal item in humid Japan — while an increase in taxes on ultra-small cars weighed on the auto industry, he added.
对于日本经济第二季度出现的下滑，经济大臣甘利明向记者表示，“临时性因素是造成此次日本经济下滑的主要因素，但是并不是事情的全部”。多雨、凉爽的天气带来的日本空调滞销（气候湿润的日本所具有的典型季节特征）以及由汽车企业负担的对小型汽车征收的税收的增加，都是其中的影响因素，甘利明补充道。
The slowdown is nonetheless a setback for the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, which has been trying to pull the economy out of nearly two decades of deflation through a stimulus program known as Abenomics.
但是不管怎样，对于试图通过所谓的“安倍经济学”等一系列刺激计划将日本经济拖出过去20年紧缩泥沼的安倍政府而言，第二季度的经济下滑无疑是一个打击。
The program, under which the central bank injects vast amounts of cash into the economy, has kept borrowing costs low and weakened the yen. It has been a boon for global manufacturing companies like Toyota that earn much of their revenues abroad in currencies like dollars and euros.
在安倍经济学的刺激计划中，央行通过给经济注入大量的现金，维持了借贷成本的低位徘徊，同时导致日元贬值。这对丰田等主要以美国和欧元赚取海外收入的全球制造业企业是大有裨益的。
But while Abenomics has increased profits at big corporations and lifted the stock market, many ordinary Japanese say they feel few benefits. Jobs are plentiful — the unemployment rate is just 3.4 percent, close to an 18-year low — but the paychecks that go with them buy less than they used to. Adjusted for inflation and taxes, average wages have been stuck in a persistent decline.
尽管安倍经济学增加了大公司的利润，提振了股市，但是很多普通日本企业表示获益非常有限。尽管就业岗位十分充足——失业率仅为3.4%。接近18年来的低点——但是薪酬的购买力却在下降。经过通货膨胀率和税负调整后，平均工资一直在下行通道里徘徊。
Household spending fell at an annualized rate of 3.1 percent in the second quarter, the economic report on Monday showed. A government sentiment survey released last week showed consumer confidence had slipped to its lowest level since January.
周一的经济报告表明，第二季度日本居民消费年化降幅为3.1%。上周日本政府发起的满意度调查显示，消费者信心指数下降至今年1月以来的新低。
Pay has been increasing comfortably for some workers. Toyota, for instance, this year increased base wages for its Japanese work force by the largest margin in 13 years. But economists caution that gains have accrued disproportionately to those with permanent jobs at major companies — an elite but shrinking minority.
但是有一些工人的工资水平出现上涨。举例来说，丰田今年给本土工人的底薪涨幅创造了13年来的新高。但是经济学家警告说，安倍经济学的红利正在向着大企业的永久岗位，这一杰出但逐渐收缩的群体倾斜。
Many of the jobs that have been created since Mr. Abe became prime minister at the end of 2012 have been part-time or temporary, with lower pay and fewer benefits.
2012年底安倍上任首相以来创造的就业岗位中多为兼职和临时的岗位，报酬很低同时获益有限。
Exports, which have been hurt by a weaker Chinese economy, tumbled at an annualized rate of 16.5 percent last quarter, according to the economic report. That was only partially offset by a 9.8 percent decline in the value of imports.
根据日本内阁的经济报告，受到中国经济增速放缓的影响，第二季度日本出口下降16.5%。降幅大于进口额的9.8%。
China’s rapid development in recent years has had spillover benefits for Japan, where experienced manufacturers of industrial machinery have supplied much of the equipment used in China’s proliferating factories. China supplanted the United States as Japan’s largest trading partner several years ago.
近年来，日本一直从中国经济的快速增长中获益。中国工业化进程中的设备大部分由日本有经验的工业机械制造商提供。几年前，中国已经取代美国成为日本最大的贸易伙伴。
Thus the slowing pace of growth in China — and, in particular, a decline in demand for capital goods — has hurt important parts of Japan’s export economy.
因此，中国经济增速的放缓，尤其是对资本品需求的下滑，拖累了日本出口的主体。
The quarterly contraction in Japan could revive speculation on whether the central bank will step up its stimulus efforts. The Bank of Japan has been pouring money into the economy by buying government bonds from the market at a rate of 80 trillion yen a year, or close to $700 billion. Yet the sustained increase in consumer prices that it hopes to generate as a result has been elusive.
日本经济的季度性萎缩将会引发对日本央行是否继续加大刺激力度的推测。日本中央银行一直通过每年从市场购买80万亿日元，也即将近7000亿美元规模的债券来投放流动性。但是该计划希望带来的消费价格持续提升尚未出现。