TOKYO —  Japan took a major step back on Friday from earlier pledges to slash its greenhouse gas emissions, saying a shutdown of its nuclear power plants in the wake of the Fukushima disaster had made previous targets unattainable. The announcement cast a shadow over international talks underway in Warsaw aimed at fashioning a new global pact to address the threats of a changing climate.
东京——周五，日本大幅降低其之前承诺的温室气体减排目标，表示由于福岛核事故后该国关闭核电站，之前定下的目标无法实现。这一声明为正在华沙举行的国际谈判笼罩上了一层阴影，此次谈判的目标就是为了促成一项新的全球协定来应对气候变化的威胁。
Under its new goal, Japan, one of the world’s top polluters, would still seek to reduce its current emissions. But it would release 3 percent more greenhouse gases in 2020 than it did in 1990, rather than the 6 percent cut it originally promised or the 25 percent reduction it promised two years before the 2011 nuclear disaster.
根据它的新目标，日本这个排放量在世界上位列前位的国家还是会努力减少它当前的排放。但是到2020年，它会比1990年时多排放3%的温室气体，而不是最早承诺的削减6%，或2011年核事故发生两年前承诺的削减25%。
The new target, however, is based on Japan’s never turning on any of its scores of idled plants, despite the government’s continued push to bring many of them back online. Highlighting the increased emissions that would result from staying nuclear free — and perhaps securing the backing of climate-change advocates — could allow the conservative government to strengthen the case to its own public that nuclear power is necessary.
然而，新目标的基础是：日本永不重开其几十座闲置的核电站。但政府正在继续努力，希望推动其中一定数量的核电站的重启。对无核将会导致排放增加的强调——以及气候变化倡导人士可能给出的支持——将会让其保守派政府更有理由向公众提出，核能是必要的。
Japan’s environment minister, Nobuteru Ishihara, said that the new target “does not consider the possible effect of nuclear power plants reducing emissions” and that Japan “would set a more definite target” once it settled on what sources of energy it would use in the future.
日本的环境大臣石原伸晃(Nobuteru Ishihara)表示，新目标“没有考虑核电厂可能带来的减排影响”，等到日本一旦确定了未来将使用何种能源，就“会定下一个更清晰的目标”。
Environmental groups attending the climate talks criticized Japan’s new targets and said reducing emissions and keeping the country’s reactors offline were not mutually exclusive.
参加气候谈判的环保组织对日本的新目标提出批评，表示减排和关闭这个国家的核反应堆并不相互矛盾。
“Japan can get dramatic emission reductions while shutting down nuclear entirely,” said Martin Kaiser, head of the Greenpeace delegation. Greenpeace said its own calculations showed Japan could achieve emissions cuts of more than 20 percent without relying on nuclear power if it more aggressively pursued renewable energy.
绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)代表团的团长马丁·凯泽(Martin Kaiser)说，“日本能够在完全关闭核电的情况下实现大幅的减排。”该组织表示，他们的计算表明，只要日本更积极地发展可再生能源，就可以实现在不依靠核能的情况下减排20%以上。
Since the 2011 disaster, Japan’s nuclear power program, which had provided about 30 percent of the country’s electricity, has ground to a halt amid public anxiety over safety, and the country has had to fill much of the gap by burning fossil fuels. The current government has been trying for months to get the public consensus it would like before turning some reactors back on, but so far its assurances that new, tighter regulations will keep the plants safe have not convinced many Japanese.
自从2011年灾难发生以来，出于公众对安全的担忧，日本已逐渐停止了一度为这个国家提供约30%电力的核电项目，并不得不以化石燃料补上其中一大部分的缺口。本届政府过去几个月一直努力争取公众舆论的支持，希望重开部分核反应堆，但截至目前，尽管它多次承诺，以更严密的新法规来确保电站的安全，却并没有说服多少日本人。
And though Japan’s largest business lobby has argued, along with the government, that energy-poor Japan needs nuclear power to bring down energy costs, opposition to bringing reactors online remains strong.
虽然日本最大的商业游说机构和政府一道，提出日本能源匮乏，需要核电来降低其能源成本，但反对核反应堆重启的声音依然强烈。
Higher-than-expected emissions from Japan would be a major setback in the fight against global warming. The announcement added to concerns in Warsaw about the difficulty in reducing the atmospheric pollution that many scientists say makes extreme weather events, possibly including the devastating typhoon that hit the Philippines last week, more severe and more frequent.
在应对全球变暖的进程中，日本高于预期的排放代表着重大倒退。这一目标的宣布让华沙谈判的各方更加担心减少大气污染的难度。许多科学家认为，大气污染会让极端天气状况变得更严重、更频繁，这其中可能就包括上周袭击了菲律宾的、破坏力极强的台风。
Climate negotiations have been moving very slowly since a meeting in Copenhagen in 2009 that ended in acrimony after the United States and rapidly developing countries like China were unable to come to terms on how to allocate responsibility.
2009年在哥本哈根召开会议时，美国及中国等快速发展国家无法就责任的分配达成协议，会议最终在相互指责的声音中结束。此后，气候谈判一直进展缓慢。
The Warsaw conference has adopted a narrow goal of creating a road map for replacing the Kyoto Protocol, which technically expired last year, and to address the thorny issues of how poor countries should be compensated for the costs of adapting to climate change.
华沙会议设定了一个有限的目标——制定一个路线图，取代严格说来已于去年到期的《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)，并解决一个棘手问题，即如何补偿贫穷国家为应对气候变化付出的代价。
“There is regret about the announcement from Japan,” Christiana Figueres, leader of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the body overseeing the Warsaw talks, said at a news conference. But she added that Japan had made significant strides in energy efficiency and renewable power, and said she hoped that the new target would prove conservative.
负责引领华沙谈判的《联合国气候变化框架公约》(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change)组织的负责人克里斯蒂安娜·菲格雷斯(Christiana Figueres)在新闻发布会上表示， “人们对于这则来自日本的声明感到遗憾。”但她也说，日本已在能源效率及可再生能源供电方面做出很大努力，并称自己希望这个新目标会被证实过于保守。
In an apparent bid to deflect criticism of its new target, Japan said it would provide about $16 billion in private and public funds through 2015 to help developing countries curb their greenhouse gas emissions.
似乎是为了转移人们对其新目标的批评，日本表示，到2015年底，该国将提供大约160亿美元（约合975亿元人民币）的私人及公共资金，帮助发展中国家控制温室气体的排放。
While Japan’s surprisingly modest plan was an unwelcome development to climate delegates, it was just one of many indications that negotiators would have a difficult time arranging anything beyond a cosmetic deal in Warsaw. It came just two days after Australia’s new conservative government introduced a bill in Parliament to repeal the carbon tax enacted by its Labor predecessor.
对于参加气候谈判的代表们来说，日本极为有限的计划是一个不受欢迎的进展。除此之外，已有很多迹象表明，谈判代表们除了一个华而不实的协议外将很难达成任何实际目标。仅在两天之前，澳大利亚的新保守派政府在国会提出一项议案，意在废除前工党(Labor)政府征收的碳排放税。
Signatories to the United Nations treaty agreed in 2010 to cut greenhouse gas emissions to hold the rise in global temperatures to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, or 2 degrees Celsius, above preindustrial levels — the most scientists say the earth can tolerate before the effects of global warming become vastly more pernicious. Backtracking by Japan and Australia on emissions, as well as efforts by the United States and China that some criticize as too weak, would not bode well for reaching the temperature target.
2010年，该联合国条约的各缔约国同意减少温室气体的排放，以将全球气温的升幅控制在工业革命前水平以上3.6华氏度（约合2摄氏度）之内。科学家们说，这是在全球变暖的影响变得具有极大破坏力之前，地球能够承受的最高温度升幅。日本和澳大利亚在减排方面的出尔反尔，以及一些人所批评的美国和中国的举措无力，都表明温度控制目标将很难达到。
More broadly, Japan’s action shows the crucial role that many experts say nuclear power must play if the world has any chance of reaching its emissions goals. Just two weeks ago, four prominent climate scientists wrote an open letter calling for environmental groups to embrace nuclear power as the only hope to head off catastrophic global warming.
很多专家表示，如果世界各国想要获得任何完成减排目标的机会，核能发电就必须发挥关键作用。在更大的层面上，日本的行动证明了这种说法的正确性。就在两周之前，四位知名的气候科学家撰写了一封公开信，呼吁环境组织接受核能发电，把它当做阻止全球变暖达到灾难性程度的唯一希望。
To kick-start its renewable power program, Japan introduced incentives to diversify its energy sources last year. In the program’s first 12 months, through June, the country added renewable power equal to the output of about four nuclear reactors.
为了启动可再生能源发电项目，日本去年推出激励举措，力图使能源来源多样化。到今年6月，也就是在该项目实施的前12个月里，日本新增的可再生能源发电量相当于大约四个核反应堆的发电量。
Japan’s new target assumes that the country will achieve energy savings of about 20 percent by investing in renewable energy sources and energy-efficient technology, Mr. Ishihara said. Japan seeks to reduce emissions from 2005 levels by 3.8 percent, he said. Japan’s nuclear reactors around the country were shut down for regular maintenance after the disaster at Fukushima Daiichi spewed radioactive materials over northeastern Japan, but the government did not count on the antinuclear feelings that greeted its attempts to try to restart them.
石原伸晃表示，日本新目标的制定基础是，假定该国将通过投资可再生能源及节能技术，节省约20%的能源。他表示，日本力图将排放量从其2005年水平减少3.8%。自福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)爆发事故，喷射的放射性物质覆盖整个日本东北部地区之后，日本关闭了全国各地的核反应堆，进行定期维修。但出乎日本政府意料的是，在它试图重启核电站时，遭遇到了来自公众的强烈反核情绪。