TOKYO — The Japanese are known around the world for turning fish into centerpieces of culinary art. But an amusement park’s recent effort to pair frozen fish and ice-skating proved less enduring.
东京——日本人在世界上以将鱼变成烹饪艺术的中心元素著称。但一家游乐场最近将冻鱼和滑冰组合在一起的做法却证明不可取。
Two weeks ago, Space World, on the southwestern Japanese island of Kyushu, opened an ice-skating rink that featured about 5,000 fish and other sea creatures frozen beneath the surface.
两周前，位于日本西南部九州岛的太空世界(Space World)新开了一个溜冰场，其特色是将约5000条鱼和其他海洋生物冻在冰场下方。
It was hard to quibble with the park for calling the rink “an unprecedented attraction.”
游乐场称这个溜冰场是“前所未有的亮点”，这点似乎难以反驳。
Yet rather than attracting more visitors, the Aquarium on Ice ended up alienating them. A public furor broke out on social media, with many accusing the amusement park of cruelty to animals.
然而，这个冰冻水族馆非但没有吸引更多游客，反倒使他们更加疏远。社交媒体上爆发公愤，有许多人指责这个游乐场虐待动物。
“Why do they do such a thing of bad taste?” one commenter wrote on Facebook. “Playing on the dead fish in the ice is nothing but insanity,” wrote another. “Isn’t it a desecration of lives?”
“他们为什么做这样一件低级趣味的事？”有人在Facebook上评论。“在死鱼上面滑冰，只会让人觉得有病，”另一人写道。“那不是在亵渎生命吗？”
On Sunday, Space World apologized on its website, saying it would close the rink until further notice.
周日，太空世界在其网站上致歉，声称在另行通知之前会一直关闭溜冰场。
“We seriously take to heart a lot of various opinions, such as ‘you shouldn’t use these creatures in entertainments or events,’ or ‘poor fish,’ ” the announcement on the home page read. “We deeply apologize to all who had unpleasant feelings about the ice aquarium.”
“我们非常看重许多不同的观点，比如‘你们不该把这些生物用在娱乐设施或活动中’或者‘鱼真可怜’，”游乐场在主页上的声明中写道。“我们向所有为这个冰冻水族馆感到不快的人，致以深深的歉意。”
In an interview with NHK, the Japanese public broadcaster, Toshimi Takeda, the general manager of Space World, said, “We thought that we could provide an opportunity for visitors to enjoy ice-skating while learning about various kinds of fish.”
太空世界总经理竹田俊见（Toshimi Takeda，音）在接受日本公共电视台NHK采访时表示，“我们原本觉得自己可以给游客提供一个机会，让他们在溜冰的同时认识各种鱼类。”
“We regret this terribly,” he added.
“我们对此感到十分后悔，”他接着讲道。
NHK reported that the park would melt the rink to remove the fish and planned to hold a memorial service for them. It may also use the dead sea creatures as fertilizer.
据NHK报道，这家游乐场计划把冰场融化，取出里面的鱼，并为它们举办一场追悼会，之后可能会把这些死去的海洋生物变成肥料。
According to the Japanese news media, the fish, crabs and other shellfish were already dead when the amusement park bought them at a wholesale market. The park also placed photographs of larger fish, like whale sharks, under the ice.
据日本新闻媒体报道，这些鱼、蟹和其他甲壳类水生动物在被游乐场从批发市场买来时就是死的。游乐场还在冰下放置了鲸鲨等更大型鱼类的照片。
Not all visitors were appalled by the exhibit.
不是所有游客都被这样的展览吓到。
“What’s the difference between skating over the beautifully decorated rink with fish in the ice that are already dead and will only be thrown away, and visiting a museum to look at already dead dinosaurs, also beautifully decorated?” Oshita Ayano posted on Facebook. “I’m looking forward to the next plan.”
“在用已经死去、只会被扔掉的鱼装饰得很漂亮的溜冰场上滑冰，跟你去博物馆观看已经死去、同样被装饰得很漂亮的恐龙，有什么区别？”押田绫野（Oshita Ayano，音）在Facebook上写道。“我期待看到他们下一步的计划。”