ASAHIKAWA, Japan — At least 36 people were killed and seven missing in the western Japanese city of Hiroshima on Wednesday after heavy rain caused flash floods and landslides that buried victims alive as they slept in their homes, the police said. Hundreds of soldiers have been sent to the scene to dig for survivors.
日本旭川——周三，日本西部城市广岛在暴雨过后发生山洪和山体滑坡。警方称，泥石流淹没了当时正在家中睡觉的遇难者，目前共导致至少36人死亡，7人失踪。目前已有数百名士兵被派往灾区搜寻幸存者。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who had been on summer vacation, cut short a game of golf to rush back to Tokyo to lead the response to the disaster, government officials said. While deadly landslides are common in this densely populated, mountainous nation, death tolls rarely reach this high.
日本政府官员称，此前正在消夏的日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)中止了一场高尔夫球比赛，赶回东京领导救灾工作。虽然致命性的山体滑坡在这个人口密集的多山国家比较常见，但死亡人数很少如此之高。
According to the police, the dead included two brothers, ages 2 and 11, who were buried when a wall of mud engulfed their home in a neighborhood that sits at the foot of a steep mountainside. A firefighter also died during rescue operations, the police said.
警方称，死者当中包括年龄分别为2岁和11岁的两兄弟。他们家所在的社区位于一个陡峭的山坡脚下，当时，汹涌而来的泥石流吞没了他们的房屋，两人被埋在其中。警方称，还有一名消防员也在救援工作中丧生。
The landslides took place around 3:30 a.m. local time, after rainfall of up to four inches per hour was recorded by the national weather agency. Many of the victims appeared to have been asleep when entire hillsides, heavy with the weight of rainwater, suddenly gave way.
山体滑坡发生在当地时间凌晨3:30左右；据国家气象机构统计，当时的降雨量达到了每小时4英寸（约合101.6毫米）。当整个山坡在大量雨水的冲刷下发生坍塌时，许多遇难者似乎正在熟睡。
Japanese news reports quoted one survivor as saying that he had heard the frantic screams of the buried boys’ mother and had rushed to their house to find it covered in mud. He said he dug with his bare hands until he found the younger boy, but could not free him because of furniture and other debris, according to Kyodo, a Japanese news agency.
日本新闻报道援引一名幸存者的话说，他听到被埋的两兄弟的母亲在疯狂尖叫，于是他奔向他们的屋子，看到屋子已被泥流掩埋。据日本通讯社共同社(Kyodo)报道，他说他用自己的双手挖泥，最后找到了年纪较小的那个男孩，但是因为有家具和其他残骸，他没办法把男孩救出来。
The boy was dug out two hours later by rescuers, who were unable to revive him, the agency said.
共同社称，两小时后，救援人员挖出了这个男孩，但是他的生命却已无法挽救。
Video footage taken by helicopter showed thick layers of mud and, in some places, raging torrents of muddy water flowing through what had been neighborhoods of tightly spaced homes. Many of the wooden houses had been shattered into planks and piles of colorful roof tiles.
直升机拍摄的视频显示，当地被大量泥流覆盖；在有些地方，湍急的泥水还在向房屋密集的社区冲去。许多木制房屋都被摧毁，只剩下木板和一堆堆彩色的瓦片。