TOKYO — Japan and North Korea agreed on Thursday to hold formal talks for the first time in more than a year, Japanese officials said, as the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan tried to achieve a coveted diplomatic success.
东京——日本官员称，日本和朝鲜已于周四达成一致，决定举行一年多以来的首次正式对话，因为日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府希望取得一次期待已久的外交成功。
Japanese and North Korean diplomats meeting informally in the northern Chinese city of Shenyang agreed that the resumption of official dialogue could begin as early as next month. The diplomats spoke this week while the two nations’ Red Cross societies met to discuss repatriating the remains of Japanese citizens who died in what is now North Korea’s territory during the last days of World War II.
日本和朝鲜外交官在中国北部城市沈阳进行了非正式会晤，双方同意重启官方对话，时间最早是下个月。本周，两国的红十字组织见了面，就收回日本人遗骸的相关事宜进行了讨论，这些日本人在二战末期死在了如今属于朝鲜的地方。两国外交官利用这个机会进行了对话。
“It’s an important step,” Mr. Abe said at a news conference, referring to the agreement. “I’d like to resume talks as soon as possible.”
“这是重要的一步，”安倍晋三在新闻发布会上提到这项协议时说。“我想尽快重启对话。”
Formal dialogue between the two nations was suspended by Japan after North Korea launched a long-range rocket over Japan in December 2012.
2012年12月，朝鲜向日本上空发射了一枚远程火箭，日本随即暂停了双方的正式对话。
Japanese officials said the planned talks would cover a wide range of issues that would probably include North Korea’s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs, and the fate of Japanese citizens abducted by the North in the 1970s and ’80s. A North Korean official in Shenyang was also quoted by the Japanese news media as expressing hope that the talks would improve frozen ties between the two nations.
日本官员称，即将重启的对话将涉及众多议题，其中很可能包括朝鲜的核武器和弹道导弹计划，以及20世纪七八十年代被朝鲜绑架的日本公民的命运。据日本新闻媒体报道，一名朝鲜官员也在沈阳表示，希望对话能改善冻结的日朝关系。
“Our goal is to properly settle outstanding issues of both sides,” Ryu Song-il, identified as the official in charge of Japanese affairs at the North Korean Foreign Ministry, was quoted as saying by the Kyodo News Agency. “I believe it is important that relations between the two countries can be improved soon.”
“我们的目标是合理解决双方的现存问题，”日本共同通讯社(Kyodo News Agency)援引朝鲜外务省(North Korean Foreign Ministry)负责日本事务的官员刘成日(Ryu Song-il)的话说。“我认为，应该迅速改善两国关系。”
The efforts at rapprochement between the two countries come as Japan has appeared increasingly isolated in the region during Mr. Abe’s first year in office and as his government has sought to gain its first big diplomatic success. Mr. Abe’s nationalistic views have contributed to a sharp deterioration in relations between Japan and its closest neighbors, China and South Korea, with whom it is locked in emotional disputes over history and territory.
安倍晋三执政第一年，日本似乎在该地区越来越孤立，而日本政府也希望取得第一个外交方面的重大成功，这便是日朝修睦努力的背景。部分是由于安倍晋三的民族主义立场，日本与其最近邻国中国和韩国的关系出现急剧恶化，三方在历史和领土问题上陷入了极具感情色彩的争议。
Overtures to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia about resolving a separate dispute over islands in the Pacific have been delayed by the crisis in Crimea.
日本还打算向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)示好，以便解决另一起有关太平洋岛屿的争端，但因为克里米亚危机而推迟。
Japanese analysts and officials have said that Mr. Abe now appears to be focusing on North Korea, in a bet that its isolated leader, Kim Jong-un, may be willing to make concessions in exchange for economic aid to his impoverished nation. Last May, speaking a day after a top aide returned from a secretive visit to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, Mr. Abe told Parliament that he would consider meeting with Mr. Kim to resolve the issue of abducted Japanese.
日本分析人士及官员曾表示，安倍晋三目前似乎以朝鲜为重点，认为遭到孤立的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)可能愿意做出让步，以换取日本对这个贫困国家的经济援助。去年5月，安倍晋三的一名高级助手结束对朝鲜首都平壤的秘密访问回到日本，一天之后，安倍晋三向议会表示，他会考虑与金正恩举行会晤，解决被绑架的日本人的问题。
Analysts now say that visit may have laid the groundwork for the recent warming in relations. One of the most convincing signs came last week, when the parents of a Japanese schoolgirl kidnapped in 1977 were allowed to meet their North Korean-born granddaughter for the first time.
分析人士现在表示，上述访问可能为最近两国关系回暖奠定了基础。上周，于1977年被绑架的一名日本女学生的父母首次获准见到他们在朝鲜出生的外孙女，这是一个最具说服力的迹象。
Mr. Abe has vowed to press North Korea to give a fuller account of what happened to abducted Japanese, in particular eight who North Korea said died after being kidnapped, including the schoolgirl, Megumi Yokota. However, the North has provided such scant information about the deaths that families have questioned whether some or all of the abducted Japanese may still be alive.
安倍晋三曾誓称要迫使朝鲜更详细地说明被绑架日本人的遭遇，特别是朝鲜称已在被绑后死亡的那八名日本人，其中包括上述女学生横田惠(Megumi Yokota)。然而，关于这些已经死亡的日本人，朝鲜提供的信息非常少，以致日方亲属怀疑，部分或全部被绑架的日本人是否仍然健在。