AGA, Japan — For decades, Japan has defended its 778 percent tariffs on rice with a kind of religious zeal. Rice is a sacred crop, the government has argued, not open to trade negotiations. Its farmers are not just defenders of a proud agrarian heritage, but form the nation’s spiritual center as well.
日本阿贺町——数十年来，日本一直用一种宗教式的狂热维护其778%的稻米关税。政府辩称，稻米是一种稀缺作物，不适用于贸易谈判。稻农不仅是一种值得骄傲的农业传统的守护者，还构成了日本的精神支柱。
Hardly, says Hiromitsu Konsho, a young organic rice farmer in this rice-growing region of Niigata. Many Japanese farmers have all but given up on their tiny plots, he says. They earn most of their income elsewhere, farming only part time and paying little attention to improving their crops.
在新潟县稻米种植区从事有机稻培育的青年近正宏光(Hiromitsu Konsho)说，事实并非如此。他表示，许多日本务农者几乎放弃了自己的少量田地。他们从别处赚钱，只在业余时间务农，对改良作物也不怎么上心。
Yet, kept on life support by subsidies, production controls and tariffs, these farmers grow mediocre rice year after year, he says. Now an increasing amount of this rice has nowhere to go, as Japanese favor bread over their traditional staple. The government will soon raise subsidies that encourage farmers to divert their rice to animal feed.
他还称，尽管如此，由于有补贴、产量控制和关税的生计支持，这些稻农年复一年地种植着中等品质的稻米。由于日本人如今更青睐面包，而非其传统主食，越来越多的稻米变得无处可去。政府即将提高补贴额度，以鼓励务农者将自己种植的稻米变成动物饲料。
More enterprising farms face difficulty in expanding their plots or experimenting with more sustainable cultivation, steps that would let them better compete in a free market.
更具开拓精神的务农者则在扩大农田或试验更可持续的耕作方式时面临困境。不过，这些尝试可以让他们更好地在自由市场中竞争。
Mr. Konsho points to his Echigo Farm, a rare upstart in rural Japan, whose organically grown rice sells at high-end retailers as far away as Tokyo and Singapore. It faced difficulties at first, but now its rice has become a hit, fetching 5,500 yen per kilogram, or about $24 a pound — almost 10 times the market price.
近正宏光经营的越后农场(Echigo Farm)是日本乡村地区罕有的初创企业，其中培育的有机稻米行销东京和新加坡的高端零售店。他以自家农场举例：起初遭遇了困难，但如今出产的稻米成为热销品，售价为每公斤5500日元，约合每斤160元人民币，接近市场价的10倍。
“It’s high time to revive Japanese rice farming,” Mr. Konsho said.
“早就应当复兴日本的稻米种植了，”近正宏光说。
Echigo Farm almost did not get off the ground 10 years ago, when Mr. Konsho first came to Niigata from a Tokyo office job with the idea of starting an organic rice farm. Bureaucrats tried to block his land leases. Local farmers threw rocks into his rice paddies and flung salt at him, an insult reserved here for evil spirits.
越后农场10年前还几乎是一片空地。近正宏光辞去了东京的办公室工作，带着开办有机稻米农庄的想法第一次来到了新潟。地方官试图阻止他获得土地租约，当地务农者则向他的稻田里扔石头，往他身上撒盐。后一种行为在这里是专门用来诅咒恶鬼的。
“The idyllic rice farms most city people think of are things of the past,” Mr. Konsho said. “Rice farming is collapsing, and not because of free trade.”
“多数城里人想象的田园稻田已经是过去的事了，”近正宏光说，“稻米种植正在衰败，而这不是因为自由贸易。”
The recent debate over how much Japan should open up its agricultural sector to join a proposed free trade group led by the United States, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, is opening up new rifts in Japan, rifts that defy traditional urban-rural divides. Increasingly, urban Japanese — and even some farmers — are questioning exactly what those tariffs protect.
最近的辩论撕开了日本社会的新裂痕，而这种分歧并未遵循传统的城乡界限。相关议题是，为了加入美国牵头的自由贸易组织跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)，日本应在多大程度上开放其农业部门。日本城市人，乃至部分务农者，越来越多地在质疑，这些关税到底保护的是什么？
Shigeaki Okamoto, 52, who runs a successful fruit and vegetable farm in Aichi, in central Japan, says Japanese farmers can compete without tariffs. Unlike rice, Japan-grown vegetables face global competition, with most import levies between 0 percent and 3 percent. Still, four-fifths of the vegetables the Japanese consume are homegrown. Vegetable growers on average earn far more than rice farmers.
52岁的冈本重明(Shigeaki Okamoto)在日本中部的爱知县经营了一家成功的水果蔬菜农场。他说，日本务农者可以在没有关税的情况下竞争。与稻米不同，本土种植的蔬菜面临着全球竞争，多数的进口关税在0%到3%之间。尽管如此，日本消费的五分之四的蔬菜由本土出产。菜农的平均收入也远高于稻农。
Indeed, Japan’s stiff protections on rice no longer have much to do with protecting farmers, Mr. Okamoto says. They instead protect a sprawling network of farm co-ops that has leeched off farmers and stymied their efforts to innovate, he says.
冈本重明称，实际上，日本对稻米的关税保护已与维护务农者没什么关系了。他说，它们实际上保护的是日渐臃肿的农业协同网络，而这一网络剥削务农者，并阻碍他们的创新努力。
That network, as Mr. Okamoto likes to say, is bureaucracy run amok. About 216,000 people work in agricultural cooperatives in Japan, under the umbrella of the Japan Agricultural Group, or J.A. There is one co-op employee for every two full-time rice farmers. The central government’s ¥2.3 trillion farming budget for the current year is seven times the budget to oversee the nonagricultural 99 percent of the Japanese economy.
正如冈本重明常说的那样，它代表的是失控的官僚主义。大约有21.6万人为日本的农业协同组织工作，统一冠以农协（Japan Agricultural Group，简称JA）的名义。每两名全职稻农，就对应着一名农协雇员。本财年的中央政府预算中，农业占了2.3万亿日元，七倍于监管日本99%的非农经济的预算。
Much of that money makes its way to these co-ops, charged with administering production controls on rice, as well as its sales and distribution. Under that system, farmers receive subsidies in exchange for limiting the amount of rice they grow, which keeps rice prices high and small, part-time rice farmers in business. 
这笔钱中的大部分要通过这些协同组织。它们的责任是推行稻米的产量控制、销售及配送。在这一体制下，稻农获取补贴，用以交换种植量的限制。这样做，不仅可以维持稻米价格的高价，还能保障业余小稻农的生计。
Japan could make a full switch to direct-income subsidies, like the United States and European Union have done, which would at least protect farmers against international competition without the need for tariffs. But that would mean the J.A. would lose its commissions and its political clout.
日本可以像美国和欧盟那样，完全转向实行直接收入补贴。这至少会保护稻农免受国际竞争的影响，并且无需征收关税。但这也意味着，农协将不再能获得中介费，从而丧失其政治影响力。
The rise of entrepreneurial farmers like Mr. Konsho or Mr. Okamoto would have the same impact because they do not rely on the J.A. for sales or equipment.
近正宏光和冈本重明等务农企业家的崛起会产生同样的影响，因为他们不依靠农协出售大米或获得设备。
Mr. Okamoto refused to work with the J.A. in expanding his farm, focusing on produce like strawberries, which he is able to sell independently. “Japan’s agricultural policy hasn’t made farmers strong — it’s made them weak to the point of collapse,” he said.
冈本重明拒绝在扩大农场上与农协合作。扩大经营主要是为了种植可以自行出售的草莓等农产品。他说，“日本的农业政策没有让务农者变得强韧起来，反而致使他们处于崩溃的边缘。”
But the biggest problems lie in rice cultivation, Mr. Okamoto says. Most Japanese rice farmers have no incentive to raise the quality of rice they grow, because J.A. buys their harvest regardless of quality. Years of neglect have made Japanese rice not just more costly, but also lower in quality — and more dependent on fertilizer and pesticides — than much of the rice grown in the United States, Southeast Asia or China, industry insiders say.
不过，冈本重明表示，最大的问题在于稻米栽培。大多数日本稻农没有动力提高所种产品的质量，因为无论好还，农协都会购买他们的粮食。业内人士表示，多年的疏忽造成的后果是，与美国、东南亚或中国种植的许多稻米相比，日本大米不仅价格高得多、质量较低，而且对化肥和农药的依赖性更大。
Regulations that discourage new entrants have made the sector unattractive to younger Japanese. Three-quarters of Japanese farmers are over 60 years old.
阻止新人涉足的监管规定致使该行业无法吸引日本的年轻人。三分之一的日本务农者都已经超过了60岁。
One thing that could help entrepreneurial farmers, Mr. Okamoto says, could be the “special economic zones” that are part of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s plans to revive the economy. Under those plans, several areas across Japan could experiment with easing regulations, helping farmers to tap outside financing to invest and to expand their fields. Mr. Abe has also said that the government will do away with production controls of rice in 2018.
冈本重明表示，可能会对务农企业家有所帮助的是“经济特区”的创立。这也是安倍晋三首相(Shinzo Abe)的经济复苏计划的一部分。根据这些计划，日本的几个地区可以尝试放松监管，帮助务农者利用外来资金进行投资，扩大农田。安倍晋三还表示，政府将于2018年取消对稻米的产量控制。
Experts remain skeptical, however, that there will be real change. Production controls live on even under Mr. Abe’s new plans, albeit as subsidies to farmers who switch to other crops or produce rice for livestock.
但是，专家仍然怀疑是否会有真正的改变。安倍晋三的新计划中依然包括产量控制，尽管政府会给那些转而种植其他农作物或牲畜饲料的稻农提供补贴。
Politicians cannot afford to ignore the J.A. The organization is able to deliver votes in rural areas, especially among legions of part-time rice farmers — not to mention dole out much-coveted jobs for farmers’ children.
政坛人士承担不起忽视农协的代价。该组织能在农村地区拉票，特别是在有业余稻农的那些地区，更不必说为稻农子女提供他们梦寐以求的工作了。
Kazuhito Yamashita, an agricultural expert at the Canon Institute for Global Studies in Tokyo, said that at Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations Japan could be forced to offer concessions to the Americans on some farm products, like wheat and sugar. Japan could even expand the small quota of rice imports it accepts each year to appease the United States and other rice producers.
东京佳能国际战略研究所(Canon Institute for Global Studies)的农业专家山下和仁(Kazuhito Yamashita)表示，在跨太平洋伙伴关系的谈判中，日本可能会被迫在小麦和糖类等农产品方面向美国做出让步。日本甚至还可能增加原本较小的稻米进口配额，以便安抚美国等大米生产国。
“But Japan will never free up its rice market in the real sense,” he said. “There are too many vested interests.”
“但是，日本绝不会从真正意义上开放稻米市场，”他说，“这里面有太多的既得利益。”
Toyokazu Wakatsuki, 47, a farmer whose family has farmed rice for generations in Aga, was initially among local farmers skeptical of Echigo Farm. But now he helps Mr. Konsho run it.
47岁的若月丰和(Toyokazu Wakatsuki)的家族世世代代在阿贺町种植稻米。他起初也属于对越后农场持怀疑态度的当地稻农。但如今，他在协助近正宏光经营农场。
“We’ve been growing rice for the J.A., not for the consumer,” Mr. Wakatsuki said. “Farmers need to start taking the initiative.”
“我们一直为农协种植稻米，不是为了消费者，”若月丰和说。“务农者得开始采取主动。”