OXFORD, England — When Japan marked the 70th anniversary of Nagasaki’s obliteration by a plutonium bomb on Aug. 9, its own cache of weapons-usable plutonium was more than 47 metric tons — enough to make nearly 6,000 warheads like the one that flattened Nagasaki.
英国牛津——日本在8月9日纪念长崎遭原子弹轰炸70周年的同时，该国可供武器使用的钚储量也超过了47吨，足以制造近6000枚与当年夷平长崎的核弹相同的核弹头。
Japan, an industrial powerhouse but resource-poor, has long depended on nuclear energy. Before the earthquake and meltdowns at Fukushima Daiichi in 2011, it was generating nearly one-third of its electricity from nuclear power, and had plans to increase that share to 50 percent by 2030. Japan’s 48 standard reactors burn uranium fuel, a process that yields plutonium, a highly radioactive and extremely toxic substance.
日本这个自然资源稀缺的工业强国依赖核能已久，在2011年的地震及福岛第一核电站反应炉熔毁事故前，该国有将近三分之一的电力来自核能发电，当时他们还预计将这个比例在2030年前提高至50%。日本的48个标准核能反应堆使用的铀燃料会生成钚，后者是一种放射性高且毒性极高的物质。
These reactors were shut down after Fukushima. But Japan still stores nearly 11 tons of plutonium on its territory (the rest is abroad for now), and stockpiling plutonium remains hazardous: There is seismic instability, but also the risk of theft by terrorists. Yet just this week, Japan put one reactor back online, and another four have been approved for restart by the end of FY2015.
这些反应堆在福岛事件后都关闭了，不过日本仍在国内存放着将近11吨的钚（其余的目前存放在海外），然而囤积钚的做法是十分危险的。除了地震这一不稳定因素，也有被恐怖分子盗走的风险。然而就在本周，日本将重启一座核反应堆，且另有四座已获准在2015财政年度终结前重启。
For this, one can thank a powerful network of utility companies, conservative politicians and bureaucrats in Japan, who peddle the notion that plutonium constitutes a sort of thermodynamic elixir. A byproduct of burning uranium, plutonium itself can be processed in so-called fast-breeder reactors to produce more energy. That step also yields more plutonium, and so in theory this production chain is self-sustaining — a kind of virtuous nuclear-energy cycle.
对此，人们可以归因于一个强大的网络，它包括日本公共事业公司、保守的政治家与政府官员，他们散播的观念是，钚是一种热力学领域的灵丹妙药。作为燃烧铀的一个副产品，钚本身可以在所谓的快速增殖反应堆中得到处理，以产生更多的能量。那一步也会产出更多的钚，所以理论上这个生产链是自我维持的——一种良性的核能循环。
In practice, however, fast-breeder technology has been extremely difficult to implement. It is notoriously faulty and astronomically expensive, and it creates more hazardous waste. By the 1990s, many countries that experimented with fast-breeder reactors, including the United States, had phased them out.
然而，在实践中，快速增殖反应堆技术一直都极度难以应用。这项技术是出了名的有缺陷且昂贵无比，并且会制造更多的危险废物。到90年代时，尝试过快速增殖反应堆的许多国家（包括美国在内）已将之淘汰。
But Japan doubled down. The government invested heavily in Monju, a prototype fast-breeder reactor, and the nuclear industry went on a charm offensive. It introduced Mr. Pluto, a puckish animated character, who claimed plutonium was safe enough to drink. It set up so-called PR centers next to nuclear plants: An exhibit at the one near Monju declared that the reactor was “necessary because plutonium can be used for thousands of years.”
但日本却加大了投入，政府重金投资快速增殖原型反应堆“文殊”(Monju)，而核工业则针对它展开了正面宣传。他们推出钚鲁托先生(Mr. Pluto)，一个淘气捣蛋的动画人物，让他说钚安全到足以喝下去。政府紧挨着核工厂设立了所谓的公关中心：一个靠近“文殊”的展览宣称，该反应堆是“必要的，因为钚可以被使用数千年。”
The exhibit did not say Monju was a failure. The reactor became operational in 1994, but was shut down the next year after a leak caused a coolant to catch fire. Then came a botched cover-up, more than a decade of repairs, a failed restart and another accident. Monju has cost about $12.5 billion so far and produced only a tiny amount of energy.
展览没有说“文殊”失败了。反应堆于1994年投入使用，但第二年在一次泄漏引起冷却液起火后被关闭。然后是拙劣地掩盖和逾10年的修复工作，一次失败的重启，以及又一次事故。“文殊”迄今已经花掉了约125亿美元，但仅生产了极少的能源。
In 1993 Japan also started spending a fortune on a reprocessing facility at Rokkasho, which would transform nuclear waste into fuel by separating plutonium and usable uranium from other waste. The process also is extremely expensive, and it, too, creates huge amounts of waste. Scheduled to begin operations in 2016, the plant could add as many as eight tons of plutonium to Japan’s stockpile each year.
1993年，日本还开始耗费巨额修建位于六所村(Rokkasho)的一个再处理设施，该设施能将核废料转化成燃料，方法是将钚和可用的铀从其他废料中分离出来。这个过程也同样非常昂贵，并且同样会产生大量的废料。工厂原定于2016年投入使用，届时每年可能添加多至8吨的钚到日本储备中。
While Japan’s record with nuclear waste is abysmal, no other state has found a safe or economically sustainable way to reuse such substances, especially not plutonium. Britain has announced it will abandon its costly and highly toxic reprocessing efforts by around 2020. The United States has a program to recycle nuclear byproducts into a mixed-oxide fuel known as MOx, a blend of uranium and plutonium. But the Obama administration has put it on stand-by because of ballooning costs.
日本处理核废料的记录非常糟糕，不过，目前还没有哪个国家找到了一个安全的或者经济上可持续的方式再次利用这些物质，尤其是钚。英国已经宣布，到2020年左右会放弃昂贵且高毒性的回收行动。美国有一个项目，可以回收核聚变的副产品，将其变成一种叫MOx的混合氧化燃料，这种燃料是铀和钚的混合体。但是奥巴马政府已经暂时将其搁置，原因是不断上涨的成本。
France, which is at the forefront of MOx conversion efforts, has also struggled and is expected to phase out its MOx program by 2019. Instead, it has announced plans to start building in 2020 a new kind of fast-breeder reactor, known as ASTRID. This reactor is designed to generate energy by converting high-level nuclear waste into less dangerous residues, which require storage for several hundred years rather than many thousands of years, as is the case with plutonium. But this project has been delayed until at least 2030.
法国处于MOx转换行动的最前沿，同样也面临困难，且预计到2019年会停止相关项目。取而代之的是，法国宣布计划在2020年开始建设一个新型的快速增殖反应堆，名为ASTRID。这个反应堆被设计用来产生能源，方法是将高浓度核废料转换成危险度较低的残余物，这些残余物需要储存几百年而不是像钚那样需要储存好几千年。但这个项目至少已被推迟至2030年。
By far the best way to handle plutonium is to store it in secure long-term repositories underground. Having long banked on conversion, neither France nor Britain has permanent facilities; they keep plutonium in interim storage at reprocessing plants. Only two states have begun building viable long-term storage. Finland is constructing a vast facility blasted out of granite, which should be usable as of 2020. In the United States, underground chambers that can accommodate 12 metric tons of plutonium have been dug in New Mexico.
迄今为止，处理钚最好的办法是将它储存在一个安全的长期地下仓库中。一直以来，法国和英国的计划都是对核废料进行转换，因此都没有永久的存储设施；它们将钚存放在再处理工厂的临时储存室中。只有两个国家已经开始建设切实可行的长期储存设施。芬兰正在爆破出的花岗岩空间里建立一个大型设施，到2020年应该可以使用。在美国，可以容纳12吨钚的地下储存室已在新墨西哥州开建。
Considering Japan’s many vulnerabilities, particularly seismic activity, nuclear waste should no longer be stored there. The Japanese government should pay its closest allies to take its plutonium away, permanently.
考虑到日本的诸多脆弱性，尤其是地震活动，核废料不应再存放在日本了。日本政府应该花钱让它最亲密的盟友来将该国的钚永久地带走。
Britain already holds about 20 tons of Japan’s plutonium, and France, about 16 tons, under contracts to reprocess it into usable fuel. Under current arrangements, this fuel, plus all byproducts (including plutonium), are to be sent back to Japan by 2020. Instead, Japan should pay, and generously, for that plutonium to stay where it is, in secure interim storage. And it should help fund the construction of secure permanent storage in Britain and France.
英国已经存放了大约20吨日本的钚，法国大约16吨，根据合同要将其回收利用成为可用的燃料。根据目前的安排，这种燃料，加上所有的副产品（包括钚在内），将在2020年前送回日本。不过，日本应该出资，而且是出巨资，让那些钚就地不动，留在安全的临时储存设施中。并且日本应该帮助出资，在英国和法国建造安全的永久储存设施。
The Japanese government should also pay the United States to take the nearly 11 tons of plutonium currently in Japan. This proposal will seem controversial to some Americans, but the two states already have arrangements for the exchange of nuclear material. (With Finland, however, the proposition is a political nonstarter.) But it will take many years to build additional permanent storage in the United States -- and overcome likely opposition in Congress -- so in the meantime, Japan’s plutonium should be stored in interim facilities at American plants.
日本政府还应向美国支付费用，让美国接管目前在日本境内的近11吨钚。对一些美国人而言，这项提议似乎颇具争议，不过两国已就交换核材料问题做出了安排。（然而，若是芬兰的话，这项提议在政治上就完全不可行。）可是，在美国境内修建永久性储存设施需要耗费多年时间，还要克服国会想必会提出的反对意见，因而在此期间，日本的钚应该储存在美国工厂的临时设施中。
Handling Japan’s plutonium would be a great burden for receiver countries, and Japan should pay heftily for the service. But even then the expense would likely amount to a fraction of what Japan spends on its ineffectual plutonium-energy infrastructure: By the most conservative estimate, the Rokkasho facility is expected to cost $120 billion over its 40-year lifetime.
对接收国而言，处理日本的钚将是一个巨大的负担，日本应当为此支付重金。不过，就算是这样的数额，也很可能不过是日本花在自身无用的钚能设施上的九牛一毛：按照最保守的估算，六所村的再处理厂要在40年的使用期里花费1200亿美元。