TOKYO — One night in 1989, I got a phone call at home from someone who claimed to belong to the right-wing terrorist organization Sekihotai, the Blood Revenge Corps. He told me the group had put me on its blacklist of “anti-Japanese elements”; I was slated for assassination. In the previous weeks, I had published two opinion articles criticizing the recently deceased Emperor Hirohito, emphasizing his responsibility for World War II and questioning the deference he was being shown by the press and the population.
东京——1989年的一个晚上，我在家中接到一个电话，对方自称是右翼恐怖组织“赤报队”(Sekihotai)。他说我已经进入该组织的“反日分子”黑名单；将对我采取刺杀行动。此前几周里，我发表了两篇观点文章，批评不久前去世的裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)，强调他对第二次世界大战应负的责任，质疑了媒体和民众对他的崇敬。
I called our local police station. The officer I spoke with thought Sekihotai was a leftist group. I told him the organization seemed to have scouted out the building where I was living with my wife and two small children. All he did was dispatch two men to hook up a recorder to our phone. Within hours, our cat had destroyed the machine.
我给当地警署打了电话，接电话的警官以为赤报队是左翼组织。我对他说，看起来这个组织对我和妻子及两个小孩居住的建筑进行过侦察。结果他只是派了两个人过来，给我的电话接上了一个录音设备。没过几个小时，我们的猫就把机器弄坏了。
I had reason to be worried. Two years before, in May 1987, Sekihotai had carried out a series of attacks on the Asahi newspaper, whose stance it considered to be “anti-Japanese.” One reporter was murdered with a shotgun; another was seriously injured. In a statement released at the time, the group said its mission was to “punish anti-Japanese elements inside and outside Japan” and that its actions against the Asahi were “only a first step.” In 1988, it sent a threat to former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone for canceling a visit to Yasukuni Shrine out of consideration for the Chinese and Korean governments and another letter to Nakasone’s successor, Noboru Takeshita, demanding that he resume the visits.
我的担忧不是没有道理的。两年前的1987年5月，赤报队对《朝日新闻》(Asahi)发起了一系列袭击，在他们看来，这家报社的立场是“反日”的。一位记者被人用滑膛猎枪打死；还有一位重伤。该组织当时发布了一份声明，称它要“惩戒日本国内外的反日分子，”针对朝日的行动只是个开始。1988年，赤报队对前首相中曾根康弘(Yasuhiro Nakasone)发出威胁，因为他顾及到中国和韩国政府的态度，取消了参拜靖国神社的计划，中曾根首相的继任者竹下登(Noboru Takeshita)也收到一封信，要求他恢复神社参拜。
Sekihotai disappeared in 1990. To this day, no member of the organization has ever been identified, let alone arrested.
赤报队于1990年销声匿迹。直到今天也没有任何一名成员的身份被公开，更别说被捕了。
My experience with the group — assuming the caller really was a member — was not the stuff of history books. The weeks of terror my family endured were a purely private affair: The police hardly did anything, and the newspaper that had printed my articles made clear that it did not wish to get involved. But the very privateness of that incident is telling.
假设电话确为赤报队成员所打，我和这个组织的过节也谈不上是什么重大事件。我们一家在那几周里经历的恐惧，是一件纯粹的私事：警方基本上没做什么，刊登我的文章的报纸明确表示不想卷入此事。然而恰恰是这种私人的性质最能说明问题。
Just as my decision to criticize Hirohito as an ordinary man who had made catastrophic decisions, and to do so just as the entire country was mourning his death, made me part of a very small minority, so, too, it was with Sekihotai. Its extreme positions and its willingness to use violence relegated it to an almost-invisible fringe of society. And while I made my opinions public, Sekihotai’s members not only protected their anonymity, but also acted in secret. Right-wing rhetoric was a creature of the shadows. On those rare occasions when it broke out into the public sphere, it had an aura of deviance.
我决定把裕仁批评为一个做出了灾难性决策的普通人，而且选择在举国上下哀悼他的离世时这么做，这使我被归入这个国家的一小撮异类，赤报队也是这样。它的极端立场，它诉诸暴力的意愿，使它堕入到一个几乎不为世人所知的社会边缘。我的观点是公开阐明的，而赤报队的成员不但隐姓埋名，还选择秘密行动。右翼言论过去见不得光。少有的那么几次闯入到公共空间里，也总会带着点怪异的气息。
Back in 1985, in the face of stiff popular opposition, the Nakasone administration had to abandon passing the State Secrets Bill, which would have made it possible to imprison people convicted of revealing information the government deemed sensitive. In 1986, Mr. Nakasone decided not to return to Yasukuni Shrine. Then he acceded to the Chinese government’s request that Japanese history textbooks be revised to reflect the aggressiveness of Japan’s colonial expansion during World War II.
1985年的时候，中曾根政府面对民众的坚决抵制，不得不放弃国家秘密法案(State Secrets Bill)的表决，该法案规定如果一个人被认定泄露了政府眼中的敏感信息，就可能入狱。1986年，中曾根先生决定不参拜靖国神社。而后他又应中国政府的要求，对日本的历史教科书进行修订，以体现二战期间日本殖民扩张之凶横。
Recently, however, this once-deviant discourse has moved into the light. In fact, the administration of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been doing some of the very things Sekihotai demanded of Mr. Nakasone and Mr. Takeshita.
然而，曾经属于异类的论调近来开始公开化。事实上，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府在做的某些事，正是赤报队曾要求中曾根先生和竹下先生去做的。
The government recently passed the so-called Special Secrets Protection Bill, which closely resembles the 1985 legislation. Abe recently became the first sitting prime minister since 2006 to visit Yasukuni Shrine. And he has announced his intention to disregard the protests of the Chinese and Korean governments against nationalist whitewashing in Japanese history textbooks.
政府不久前通过的《特定秘密保护法案》(Special Secrets Protection Bill)，和1985年的那个提案非常相似。安倍近日又成为自2006年以来首位参拜靖国神社的在任首相。此外他还表示，中韩两国政府就日本历史教科书的民粹主义洗白发起的抗议，他打算不予理会。
The sort of violent right-wing discourse that characterized Sekihotai is now all too familiar. Just look at visitors’ comments on Mr. Abe’s Facebook page. “Forget about those primitive Chinese and Koreans. The time has come to do battle with the anti-Japanese mass media (above all Asahi types),” says one, adding, “The primitive Chinese and Koreans have no influence anyway; the Japanese mass media, which go on brainwashing so many of the nation’s citizens, are infinitely worse. They’re a dauntless, hardy enemy, but this is a fight-or-die moment. Fight for us, Prime Minister Abe!!”
作为赤报队标志的激进右翼言论，如今已经司空见惯。看看安倍先生的Facebook页面上那些来访者评论就知道了。有一位说，“别去想那些原始的中国和韩国人了。现在到了和反日大众媒体（尤其是朝日之流）开战的时候。”接着又说，“原始的中国和韩国人反正也没什么影响力；日本大众媒体绝对是更坏的，太多国民被它们洗脑了。它们是一伙无所顾忌的、强悍的敌人，但现在到了不战则亡的时刻。为我们而战，安倍首相！！”
The language’s virulence doesn’t quite come across in English. But the sentiment is clear enough. And the extent to which it resonates beyond the fringes of Japanese society is apparent from the large number of “likes” such comments garner, and on the Japanese prime minister’s Facebook page, of all places.
这段话的恶毒之处，在英文中没有很好的传达出来。但是观点已经足够清晰。此类评论得到如此众多的“赞”，而且居然是在日本首相的Facebook页面上，显然它激起的共鸣已经不仅限于日本社会的边缘群体。
A decade or so ago — some 12 years after the disappearance of Sekihotai — the leader of another Japanese right-wing organization speculated that the group had vanished because it had achieved its goals. That was giving it too much credit. Instead, a shift in the national mood has made such secret, shadowy groups unnecessary. Japan has taken a great turn to the right, and the descendants of Sekihotai are coming out into the open.
十几年前——赤报队消失12年之后——另一个日本右翼组织的首领推测，该组织当年之所以消失是因为它实现了自己的目标。这也太抬举赤报队了。实际上是世道变了，这种见不得光的秘密组织已经没有存在的必要。日本正在向右大转弯，赤报队的后继者们可以大摇大摆走出来了。