TOKYO — Seeking broader international support for opposing China’s claims to airspace over the East China Sea, Japan has asked the United Nations agency that oversees civil aviation to look into whether the newly created Chinese air defense zone could endanger civilian airliners, the Foreign Ministry said Saturday.
东京——日本外务省周日表示，为了寻求更广泛的国际支持，对抗中国对东海的权利主张，日本已经要求管理民用航空事务的联合国机构，调查中国新划定的“防空识别区”是否会威胁民航飞行的安全。
The ministry said that it submitted a proposal for the agency, the International Civil Aviation Organization, to examine whether China’s move could threaten the order and safety of international aviation in the area. Though the organization can make only nonbinding recommendations, Japan appears to be hoping that the heightened international scrutiny will force China to back off its declared intent to control the airspace with military measures if necessary.
日本外务省称，该国已向国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)提出申请，要求调查中国的举动是否威胁该地区国际飞行的秩序和安全。尽管国际民航组织只能做出没有约束力的建议，但日本似乎希望国际关注的提升能够迫使中国退让。中国此前曾宣称，如果必要的话，有意使用军事手段控制这片空域。
China’s new “air defense identification zone” covers a broad section of sea that includes islands claimed by both nations, and overlaps with a zone claimed by Japan since the late 1960s. Japan views the zone, which China declared last week, as a new move to gain control of the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in Chinese.
中国新划定的“防空识别区”覆盖着大片海域，其中包括中日两国都声称拥有主权的争议岛屿，而且与日本从上世纪60年代就主张权利的空域相重叠。日本将中国上周宣布的防空识别区视为夺取争议岛屿控制权的新措施。争议岛屿在日本被称为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)，中国则称其为钓鱼岛及其附属岛屿。
China has said its new zone would not affect civilian air traffic, and was aimed instead at stopping Japanese military aircraft from entering airspace that it says rightfully belongs to China. However, China says that all aircraft, including commercial flights, must submit a flight plan before entering the zone.
中方称新划定的识别区并不会影响民用航空飞行，其目的是阻止日军飞机进入中方宣称系中国正当所有的那片空域。然而中国还表示，所有飞机，包括商业航班，都必须要在进入该空域之前提交飞行计划。
While the United States military continues to fly into the zone without notifying China, Obama administration officials said Friday that they were advising American airlines to comply with the Chinese requirement in order to ensure their safety.
尽管美国军方仍会飞入这片空域，且并不知会中方，但奥巴马政府的官员在周五表示，他们建议美国的航空公司为了保障安全，服从中方的要求。