TOKYO — Torn between maintaining solidarity with Washington and keeping a diplomatic door open with Moscow, Japan imposed new sanctions on Russia on Tuesday but kept them more limited than those recently ordered by the United States.
东京——一方面要继续与华盛顿同仇敌忾，一方面不想完全关闭与莫斯科的外交大门，左右为难的日本最终于周二决定对俄罗斯施加新制裁，但与美国最近的制裁举措相比，日本的制裁力度有限。
The new sanctions indicate that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe felt he needed to fall in line with the United States, his country’s longtime protector, analysts said, especially as he tries to fend off territorial claims by an increasingly powerful China.
分析人士称，实施新制裁说明，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)感觉自己需要和日本长期以来的保护者美国保持一致，尤其是在他设法抵抗日益强大的中国领土主张的时候。
Still, Mr. Abe appeared to be trying to strike a delicate balance not only by limiting the sanctions, but also by indicating that he had not canceled an invitation to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to visit Japan in the fall. Mr. Abe has been pursuing warmer relations with Moscow, in part, analysts say, to ensure that Japan does not lose out on Russia’s bounty of natural gas.
安倍晋三似乎试图找到一个微妙的平衡，不仅对制裁加以限制，还称自己没有取消邀请，欢迎俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)今年秋季到访日本。分析人士称，安倍晋三力求与俄罗斯保持比较友好的关系，部分是为了确保日本不会失去俄罗斯的天然气供应。
“Japan is sending the message that we are not enthusiastic about these sanctions,” said Yoshiki Mine, a research director at the Canon Institute for Global Studies in Tokyo and a former high-ranking Japanese diplomat. “Japan needs to show it shares the same values as the West, but it also wants to keep an opening with Russia.”
“日本在释放一个信号，我们并不热衷于这些制裁，”东京佳能全球战略研究所(Canon Institute for Global Studies)研究主管、前日本高级外交官美根庆树(Yoshiki Mine)说。“日本需要展示，它与西方有相同的价值观，但也想与俄罗斯保持关系。”
The Japanese sanctions will freeze any assets in Japan belonging to two organizations and 40 individuals connected with Russia’s involvement in Ukraine. The people named by Japan had already been targeted by the Americans and Europeans for being involved in Russia’s annexation of the Crimean peninsula, or in what the West calls Russian-backed efforts to destabilize eastern Ukraine, according to a government spokesman.
日本将冻结两个组织及40名个人在日本的资产，他们与俄罗斯干预乌克兰的行动存在关联。据一名政府发言人透露，日本提到的这些人已经成为美国及欧洲的制裁目标，因为他们参与了俄罗斯吞并克里米亚半岛，或破坏乌克兰东部地区稳定的行动，西方称这些行动是由俄罗斯支持的。
Japan will also restrict imports of products made in Crimea.
日本还将禁止进口克里米亚的产品。
Analysts called the measures largely symbolic since Japan does not import much from Crimea, and it is unclear how many, if any, assets the targeted people hold in Japan.
分析人士称这些举措基本上都是象征性的，因为日本并没有从克里米亚进口多少东西。目前尚不清楚，这些制裁对象在日本拥有多少资产。
The latest round of American and European sanctions against Russia went much further, taking broad aim at the country’s banking, energy and military technology industries. Japan had imposed relatively mild sanctions in April that included barring some Russian officials from receiving travel visas to Japan.
美国及欧洲对俄罗斯的最新一轮制裁更加严厉，目标更加广泛，涉及俄罗斯的银行业、能源及军事技术行业。日本在今年4月实施了相对温和的制裁举措，禁止给一些俄罗斯官员发放日本旅游签证。
Mr. Mine and others said Japan’s apparent hesitation over sanctions underscored how Mr. Abe was being torn by competing geopolitical goals.
美根庆树及其他人表示，日本对制裁的态度明显非常犹豫，这突显出地缘政治目标的相互冲突让安倍晋三痛苦不堪。
On the one hand, analysts said, Mr. Abe wants to avoid falling too far behind the United States and the European Union in punishing Moscow, especially after the downing of a Malaysia Airlines jetliner last month, which many in the West say was carried out by pro-Russia separatists.
分析人士称，一方面，安倍晋三希望避免在制裁俄罗斯方面远远落后于美国和欧盟，特别是上个月马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)一架客机坠毁之后，很多西方人称是亲俄分裂分子击落了那架飞机。
One of Mr. Abe’s signature goals has been to raise Japan’s profile in international affairs while also strengthening ties with the United States. That is the main rationale he has offered for some of his most contentious policies, in particular freeing the Japanese military from some of the pacifist constraints imposed after World War II.
安倍晋三的一个显著目标就是提高日本在国际事务中的影响力，同时增强日美关系。这是安倍晋三提出一些最具争议的政策的主要原因，特别是促使日本军队摆脱二战后和平主义限制的政策。
But Russia offers Mr. Abe a rare and tantalizing prospect of achieving a major diplomatic success at a time when his nationalistic tendencies have threatened to isolate him and his nation in the region.
但就在安倍晋三的民族主义倾向可能会致使他及他的国家在该地区遭到孤立的时候，俄罗斯给安倍晋三带来了一个罕见且诱人的前景，令日本有望取得一个重大外交成就。
Analysts say Mr. Abe sees a chance to finally resolve one of Japan’s most stubborn diplomatic impasses, over three islands and a group of islets off its northern coast that were occupied by Soviet troops after Japan surrendered in 1945. The islands have been a sore point for almost seven decades, preventing Japan and Russia from even signing a formal peace treaty after World War II.
分析人士称，日本因为三个岛屿以及北部沿岸的一组岛屿而深陷外交僵局，而现在安倍晋三看到了解决它的机会。俄罗斯在1945年日本投降之后占领了这些岛屿。近70年来，这些岛屿一直是个争议话题，因为这些岛屿，日本和俄罗斯在二战后甚至未能签署一份正式的和平协议。
Both sides have new incentives now to make a deal, analysts said. Since the disaster at the Fukushima plant in 2011 forced Japan to at least temporarily end its reliance on nuclear energy, the government has been seeking new energy supplies, from sources other than the volatile Middle East.
分析人士说，双方目前都有了达成一项协议的新动机。2011年福岛核电厂的事故迫使日本至少暂时中断了对核能的依赖，在此之后，日本政府一直在动荡的中东地区之外，寻找新的能源供应。
Mr. Putin has been looking to Asia for customers for Russia’s gas and oil, and for new sources of investment in its energy infrastructure to reduce its economic dependence on Western Europe.
普京一直希望在亚洲为俄罗斯的石油和天然气找到客户，并在那里为本国的能源基础设施找到新的投资来源，以减少对西欧的经济依赖。
Both Mr. Abe and Mr. Putin have appeared to signal a greater willingness to talk about the territorial dispute than their predecessors did. Experts said there had been expectations that Mr. Abe and Mr. Putin, two leaders with impeccable conservative credentials, could finally overcome resistance to a compromise by hard-liners in both nations.
安倍和普京似乎都释放出了讨论领土争议的更强烈意愿。一些专家表示，有人推测安倍和普京这两位一贯行事保守的领导人，最终可能会突破两国强硬派对达成和解设置的障碍。
This helped lead to a noticeable thawing of long-frozen ties, with Mr. Abe meeting with Mr. Putin five times since taking office in December 2012 — most recently in February, when Mr. Abe, unlike many world leaders, attended the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia.
这让俄日之间长期冰封的关系开始明显缓和，自2012年12月上台以来，安倍已经五次与普京会面——最近一次是在今年2月，在许多国家元首缺席的情况下，安倍出席了在俄罗斯索契举行的冬奥会。
That outreach on both sides stands in stark contrast to Japan’s souring relations with neighboring South Korea and China, whose leaders have complained bitterly about what they say are Mr. Abe’s revisionist views on Japan’s bloody wartime empire-building.
双方进行的主动接触，与日本和中韩两国不断恶化的关系形成了强烈对比。中韩两国领导人认为，安倍对日本在战争时期血腥的帝国主义扩张历史持粉饰性的观点，并对此激烈地表达过不满。
But after the conflict in Ukraine erupted, some Japanese watched anxiously as Mr. Putin signed a large contract in May to supply China with $400 billion worth of natural gas. Analysts said there were fears that Russia could retaliate against sanctions by canceling joint energy projects with Japan, like one to produce liquefied natural gas on the Russian island of Sakhalin.
不过，乌克兰冲突爆发之后，当看到普京5月签署了为中国提供价值4000亿美元天然气的大合同时，一些日本人焦急起来。分析人士说，有人担心，俄罗斯可能取消与日本的联合能源项目，比如在俄罗斯库页岛生产液化天然气的项目，从而对制裁实施报复。
“We see China and also South Korea developing new energy cooperation with Russia,” said Nobuo Shimotomai, an expert on Russian-Japanese relations at Hosei University in Tokyo. “Japan does not want to be left behind.”
“我们看到了中国和韩国正在与俄罗斯开展新的能源合作，”东京法政大学(Hosei University)的俄日关系专家下斗米申生(Nobuo Shimotomai)说，“日本不想落在后面。”
Russia has been trying to drive a wedge between Tokyo and Washington, analysts say. After it became clear last week that Japan was likely to impose new sanctions, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, called on Japanese leaders to show more independence from the United States, while also saying that Mr. Putin’s visit to Japan was still on as far as Russia was concerned. The dates for that visit have yet to be set.
分析人士说，俄罗斯一直在努力挑起东京和华盛顿的矛盾。上周，在日本对俄罗斯实施新制裁的打算逐渐明确后，俄罗斯外加部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)呼吁日本领导人相对美国保持更大的独立，并表示，对于俄罗斯而言，普京访问日本的计划仍然有效。此次访问的日期尚未敲定。
Russia’s Foreign Ministry also issued a statement saying that the expected Japanese move was “an unfriendly and shortsighted step” that “inevitably harms the entire range of our bilateral relations, knocking them back.” On Tuesday, Russia canceled talks between the two countries’ deputy foreign ministers.
俄罗斯外交部还在一份声明中表示，日本预计采取的行动“是敌意和短视之举”，而且“必定会两国双边关系构成全面的伤害，并使之倒退。”周二，俄罗斯取消了两国的副外长间会晤。