NAIME, Japan — Every month, Hiroko Watabe, 74, returns for a few hours to her abandoned house near the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant to engage in her own small act of defiance against fate. She dons a surgical mask, hangs two radiation-measuring devices around her neck and crouches down to pull weeds.
日本浪江町——74岁的渡边裕子（Hiroko Watabe，音译）每个月都会回到她位于被破坏的福岛核电站附近的家中，在废弃的房子里待上几个小时，算是表达一下她对命运的不满。她戴着外科口罩，脖子上挂着两个测量辐射的设备，蹲下来清除杂草。
She is desperate to keep her small yard clean to prove she has not given up on her home, which she and her family evacuated two years ago after a 9.0 earthquake and a tsunami devastated the plant five miles away. Not all her neighbors are willing to take the risk; chest-high weeds now block the doorways of their once-tidy homes.
她不顾一切地想让自己的小院子保持干净，是为了证明她还没有放弃自己的家。两年前，在9.0级地震和海啸摧毁了五英里之外的核电站之后，她和她的家人离开了这里。她的有些邻居不愿意冒险回来；她的家过去总是很整洁，但如今杂草已经长到齐胸高，堵住了家门口。
“In my heart, I know we can never live here again,” said Ms. Watabe, who drove here with her husband from Koriyama, the city an hour away where they have lived since the disaster. “But doing this gives us a purpose. We are saying that this is still our home.”
渡边是和丈夫从郡山市开车过来的。渡边女士说，“我心里知道，我们再也不能住在这了。”郡山市距这里有一个小时的路程，受灾后他们一直住在那里。“但是这样做让我们的生活有了目标。我们仍然觉得这是我们的家。”
While the continuing environmental disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant has grabbed world headlines — with hundreds of tons of contaminated water flowing into the Pacific Ocean daily — a human crisis has been quietly unfolding. Two and a half years after the plant belched plumes of radioactive materials over northeast Japan, the almost 83,000 nuclear refugees evacuated from the worst-hit areas are still unable to go home. Some have moved on, reluctantly, but tens of thousands remain in a legal and emotional limbo while the government holds out hope that they can one day return.
尽管福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)持续不断的环境危机已经成为全球媒体关注的焦点——每天有数百吨污水流进太平洋——一场人伦危机正在悄无声息地展开。在福岛核电站将放射性物质释放到日本东北部两年半之后，从受灾最严重地区疏散的将近8.3万名核难民仍然无法回家。有些人开始了新的生活，虽然他们并不情愿，但是数万人仍然处在法律和情感上的两难境地，同时政府仍在许诺他们终有一天可以回家。
As they wait, many are growing bitter. Most have supported the official goal of decontaminating the towns so that people can return to homes that some families inhabited for generations. Now they suspect the government knows that the unprecedented cleanup will take years, if not decades longer than promised, as a growing chorus of independent experts have warned, but will not admit it for fear of dooming plans to restart Japan’s other nuclear plants.
在等待的过程中，许多人越来越不满。大多数人曾认同政府的计划，即清除城镇的污染，让人们可以回到其家族世代居住的家园。现在他们怀疑，政府知道这次前所未有的清理行动将持续多年，甚至可能要比承诺的多几十年，就像越来越多的独立专家警告过的那样。但是由于担心破坏重启日本其他核电站的计划，政府却不愿承认这一点。
That has left the people of Namie and many of the 10 other evacuated towns with few good choices. They can continue to live in cramped temporary housing and collect relatively meager monthly compensation from the government. Or they can try to build a new life elsewhere, a near impossibility for many unless the government admits defeat and fully compensates them for their lost homes and livelihoods.
这让浪江町和另外10个被疏散城镇的许多人都没有什么好的选择。他们可以继续住在狭小的临时房里，每月从政府领取微薄的赔偿金。或者他们也可以尝试在其他地方开始新的生活，但这对于许多人几乎是不可能的，除非政府承认无法让他们重返家园，对他们失去的家园和生计给予充分的赔偿。
“The national government orders us to go back, but then orders us to just wait and wait,” said Tamotsu Baba, the mayor of this town of 20,000 people that was hastily evacuated when explosions began to rock the plant. “The bureaucrats want to avoid taking responsibility for everything that has happened, and we commoners pay the price.”
“中央政府命令我们回去，然后又让我们等啊等，”拥有两万人口的浪江町町长马场保（Tamotsu Baba，音译）说。在爆炸开始撼动电站的时候，这些人匆忙地逃了出来。“政府不想为所发生的一切承担责任，我们普通人就得付出代价。”
For Namie’s residents, government obfuscation is nothing new. On the day they fled, bureaucrats in Tokyo knew the direction they were taking could be dangerous, based on computer modeling, but did not say so for fear of causing panic. The townspeople headed north, straight into an invisible, radioactive plume.
对于浪江町的居民来说，政府迷惑民众的做法已经见怪不怪了。他们逃跑的那天，东京的官员根据计算机模型明知道他们逃往的方向可能很危险，但是因为害怕引起恐慌，却没这么说。浪江町的居民们向北逃跑，直接进入了一个看不见的放射性烟羽地带。
Before the disaster, Namie was a sleepy farming and fishing community, stretching between mountains and the Pacific. These days, it is divided into color-coded sections that denote how contaminated various areas are, and how long former residents can stay during limited daytime-only visits. They are issued dosimeters on their way in, and are screened on their way out. Next to one checkpoint, a sign warns of feral cows that have roamed free since fleeing farmers released them.
在灾难发生前，浪江町是一个生活节奏缓慢的农渔业社区，位于群山和太平洋之间。如今，这个社区在地图上被分成不同颜色的小块，这些颜色显示了各地区的污染程度，以及前居民在仅限于白天的访问中可以待多久。他们进入浪江町的时候被发放了放射量计，出来的时候还要接受检查。在一个检查站旁，一个标识警告人们，附近有被撤离农民遗弃的、恢复了野性的奶牛出没。
Inside the checkpoints, Namie is a ghost town of empty streets cluttered with garbage and weeds, unheard-of in famously neat Japan. Some traditional wooden farmhouses survived the earthquake, though they have not survived the neglect. They collapsed after rain seeped in, rotting their ancient wooden beams. Their tiled roofs spill into the roads.
在检查站那边的浪江町是一个鬼城，空荡的街道上遍布垃圾和野草，这在以整洁闻名的日本简直是奇观。一些传统的木制农舍在地震中幸免，不过这些住宅仍然难逃被遗弃的命运。渗入的雨水导致老旧的木头横梁腐烂之后，这些房屋纷纷坍塌。屋顶上的瓦片散落在街上。
Through gritty shop windows, merchandise that fell off shelves in the quake can still be seen scattered on the floor. In the town hall, calendars remain open to March 2011, when the disaster struck.
通过破旧的商店橱窗，还能看到地震中从货架上掉下的货物散落在地板上。在浪江町公所，日历上还是2011年3月，灾难发生的那一天。
Officials have reoccupied a corner of the building for their Office for Preparation to Return to the Town, though their only steps so far have been to install portable toilets and post guards to prevent looting. The national government hopes to eventually deploy an army of workers here to scrape up tons of contaminated soil. But officials have run into a roadblock: they have found only two sites in the town where they can store toxic dirt; 49 would be needed.
官员们重新占据了町公所的一角，作为“重返家园筹备行动办公室”，不过他们到目前为止采取的行动只是安装了移动厕所并部署了保安，以防止盗窃。中央政府希望最终可以部署大量工人，把成吨的污染土壤集中起来。但是官员们遇到了难题：他们发现镇上只有两个地点可以储存有毒土；但是他们却需要49个。
Ms. Watabe’s visits have been emotionally painful, and scary. She says her husband’s car dealership was robbed. Her yard was invaded by a dangerous wild boar, which she managed to chase off. She considers weeding her driveway so risky that she waved away a visitor who offered to help, pointing to her dosimeter showing readings two and a half times the level that would normally force an evacuation.
渡边每次回来都很痛苦，也很害怕。她说，她丈夫的汽车经销店被抢了。她的庭院被一头凶悍的野猪占领，她好不容易才将其赶走。她觉得给车道除草太危险，所以她指着放射计量上的数字，谢绝了一位主动要求帮忙的访客，计量读数已经达到了撤离水平的2.5倍。
She reminisced about her once close-knit community, where neighbors stopped by for leisurely chats over tea. She raised her four children here, and her 10 grandchildren were regular visitors; their stuffed animals and baby toys lie amid the debris on the dealership floor.
她非常怀念这个曾经无比融洽的社区，邻居们会来她家喝茶闲聊。她在这里抚养了四个儿女，她的10个孙子孙女也常常来看望她；他们的动物毛绒玩具和婴儿玩具如今混在汽车经销店地板上的瓦砾堆里。
Her youngest son, whose own family had shared the house and who was supposed to take over the family business, has vowed never to return. He moved, instead, to a Tokyo suburb, worried that even the taint of an association with Namie could cause his two young daughters to face the same sort of discrimination as the survivors of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings.
她最小的儿子全家也曾和他们一起住在这栋房子里，他本来是要接管家族生意的，但现在已经发誓再也不回来了。他搬到了东京的郊区，因为他担心即使是与浪江町产生一丁点关系，也会让他两个年幼的女儿遭到歧视，就像广岛和长崎爆炸的幸存者一样。
“The young people have already given up on Namie,” Ms. Watabe said. “It is only the old people who want to come back.”
渡边说，“年轻人已经放弃了浪江町，只有老年人想回来。”
Near the entryway of her three-century-old farmhouse, 84-year-old Jun Owada swept her tatami floor clean of the droppings from the mice that moved in when she moved out. She had returned this day to perform a traditional mourning rite, washing the grave of her husband, who died before the earthquake.
在她有着300年历史的农舍里，84岁的小和田俊（Jun Owada，音译）正在大门不远处清扫榻榻米地板上的老鼠屎，这些老鼠是在她搬走后趁虚而入的。她今天回来是要完成一个传统的悼念仪式，为她的丈夫清洗墓碑。她的丈夫在地震前已经去世。
Unlike the Watabes, she has decided to move on, and is living with a son in suburban Tokyo even as she comes back to honor a past she is putting behind her. Every time she visits, she said, she receives a dose equivalent to one or two chest X-rays even if she remains indoors. As she pushed her broom, she pointed out things she could not fix.
与渡边家不同，她已决定开始新的生活，她目前正在东京郊区与一个儿子一起生活，她回来是为了纪念一段已经放下的过去。她说，每次回来，她都会受到相当于一两次胸透计量的辐射，即使她一直待在室内。她一边扫地，一边指着那些她收拾不了的东西。
The terraced rice paddies are overgrown, and although her home’s thick wooden beams have held out longer than her neighbors’, they, too, are starting to rot.
梯田里的水稻田已经杂草丛生，尽管她家的粗木梁比邻居家的坚持了更长时间，也已开始腐烂。
“One look around here,” she said, “and you know right away that there is no way to return.”
“只需到这里看一眼，”她说，“你就知道不可能再回来了。”