SAGA, Japan — The bulldozers started up with a rumble this year in this bucolic corner of southern Japan, unleashing a construction frenzy — and a sinking feeling of déjà vu.
日本佐贺——今年，在日本南部这个满目田园风光的地方，推土机开始隆隆作响，掀起了一阵施工狂潮，随之而来的还有一种似曾相识的不安感觉。
The traffic cones and “under construction” signs alongside Saga’s roads and waterways are about the only visible change brought about by “Abenomics,” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s much-lauded plan to put Japan back on the path to growth. Residents here say the building boom is a throwback to Japan’s troubled 1990s, when far-flung regions across the country tried to build their way back to prosperity.
佐贺道路和航道两侧的锥形交通路标和“施工中”的标识差不多是“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)为此地带来的唯一可见变化。安倍经济学是日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)推出的计划，目标是让日本重新实现增长，受到了广泛赞誉。而此地的居民却说，这一股大兴土木的热潮是向着日本动荡不安的90年代的一种倒退。当时，全国上下的偏远地区都努力通过建设来重现繁荣。
And they worry that, like previous attempts, growth will not last.
他们担心，就像上次那样，建设带来的增长不会长久。
“How long before all this winds down again? That’s what everyone’s worried about,” said Masataka Matsuo, a construction worker reinforcing an irrigation ditch several miles away from the city center.
“这一切能维持多久不再次停滞呢？这是每个人所担心的，”建筑工人松生正隆（Masataka Matsuo，音译）说道，他在离市中心几英里远的地方加固一条灌溉水渠。
Japan has been the world’s surprising growth story this year, largely outpacing other major industrialized countries with a bold set of policies that are lifting its economy after years of deflation. So far, it has been Mr. Abe’s bid to pump the nation’s banks with money — together with his promises of wide-ranging market reforms — that have garnered much of the investor spotlight.
今年以来，日本出人意料地为世界带来了一个增长神话。经过数年通货紧缩之后，日本推出的一系列大胆政策正在提振经济，发展速度也因此超过了世界上多数其他发达国家。安倍晋三为银行注入资金，还承诺进行大范围的市场改革，迄今为止，正是他的这些举措吸引了许多投资者的目光。
But some economists say that Japan’s recovery has become dangerously dependent on large-scale public works spending, remembered here for adding to Japan’s debt burden, fueling pork-barrel politics and riddling the country with little-used roads, bridges and dams.
但一些经济学家表示，日本的复苏靠的是对公共设施建设的大举投资，这种依赖已经到了危险的程度，在日本人的记忆中，这种策略会为日本增加债务负担、助长“猪肉桶政治”(pork-barrel politics)，并为这个国家带来许多没什么人用的道路、桥梁和水坝。
On Thursday, the government announced new stimulus spending of 5.5 trillion yen, much of it for public works, in a bid to offset any negative public reaction to a coming increase in a national sales tax.
周四，政府宣布了新的总额为5.5万亿日元（约合3250亿元人民币）的投资刺激计划，其中很大一部分将用于公共设施项目，由于日本即将提高一项全国性的销售税，此举是为了抵消公众可能出现的任何负面反应。
Still, pouring money into infrastructure projects will do little to lift Japan’s growth potential in the long term, some economists warn. And with limited evidence that monetary easing is in fact lifting the real economy, growth “risks falling off a cliff” when government outlays sputter, said Chotaro Morita, chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities in Tokyo.
然而，一些经济学家警告，从长期来看，大量投资基础设施项目并不能为日本提振多少增长潜力。东京SMBC日兴证券(SMBC Nikko Securities)的首席策略师森田长太郎(Chotaro Morita)表示，显示货币宽松政策正在提振实体经济的证据有限，等到政府投资开始乏力时，增长就“可能会急转直下”。
“Japan’s growth engine has been massive government spending,” Ryutaro Kono, economist for BNP Paribas, said in a recent note.
法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)的经济学家河野龙太郎(Ryutaro Kono)在最近的一份报告中说，“日本的增长动力一直是大规模的政府投资。”
Saga, a small prefecture of about 850,000 people, knows all about government largess. Construction was abundant here during the Lost Decade 1990s, as Japan sought to fend off recession with a huge public works drive that in some years topped the entire military budget of the United States.
佐贺是一个人口约85万的小县，对于政府的慷慨再熟悉不过了。在20世纪90年代“失落的十年”里，日本试图以大量公共设施建设来阻止衰退，当地启动了大量的建设项目。日本在公共设施方面的投入，有几年甚至超过了美国的总军事预算。
Saga built a new airport, dammed nearly all its river systems, and opened a 200-acre landscaped park with a shiny visitor center and almost 100 historical buildings. At the peak of the building frenzy, one in nine workers in Saga worked in construction.
佐贺造了一个新机场，几乎在所有的河流都建了大坝，还建成了一座占地200英亩（约合1214亩）、包括一个富丽堂皇的游客中心的景观公园，开放了将近100座历史建筑。在建设风潮的高峰期，佐贺的就业人口九分之一在建筑行业工作。
But from the early 2000s, a reformist prime minister started to reduce spending, leaving regions like Saga in the lurch. The Democratic Party, which took the country’s helm in 2009, declared that Japan would further shift its resources “from concrete to people.” By 2012, public investment had declined to a third of its peak in 1998. Almost a fifth of Saga’s construction companies closed or went out of business. The local economy plummeted.
但是从21世纪初开始，一位改良派的首相开始减少投资，让佐贺等地陷入了困境。2009年开始掌权的日本民主党(Democratic Party)宣布，日本会进一步将其资源“从混凝土向人”转移。到2012年，公共设施的投资减少到1998年高峰时期的三分之一。佐贺近五分之一的建筑公司或关门或破产。地方经济一落千丈。
Mr. Abe, who led the Liberal Democratic Party to victory last December, has again turned on the spigot. Barely two weeks after he took office, Mr. Abe announced a ¥10 trillion (over $110 billion) emergency stimulus package centered on public works.
去年12月带领自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)取胜的安倍晋三再次开启了这道阀门。上任还不到两周，安倍晋三就宣布了一项10万亿日元的紧急刺激计划，重点就是公共设施。
Within days, Saga’s prefectural assembly passed a ¥28 billion stimulus package of its own, four-fifths of which went to infrastructure projects. The runway at Saga’s airport must be repaved, lawmakers said, and roads extended. The prefecture even began to upgrade its Japanese-style public toilets to Western-style ones.
几天之内，佐贺县议会就通过了自己的一项280亿日元的刺激计划，其中五分之四的资金都用于基础设施项目。议员们表示，佐贺机场的跑道必须重新铺设，道路需要拓宽。该县甚至开始将日式公共厕所改造成西式厕所。
Still, with no guarantee the spending bonanza will continue, even construction companies are hesitant to ramp up hiring or investment. A growing number of public construction projects are finding no bidders because of a shortage of workers and machinery.
但是，没有什么能保障这样的大举支出能持续下去，连建筑公司都犹豫再三，不愿增加人手或投资。由于工人及机械设备的短缺，越来越多的公共建设项目没有人投标。
“There’s lots of work, but it’s too risky to start expanding again. Government is so fickle,” said Tsuyoshi Kishimoto, president of Kishimoto Gumi, one of Saga’s biggest contractors.
佐贺最大承包商之一岸本组(Kishimoto Gumi)的社长岸本邦宏(Tsuyoshi Kishimoto)表示，“虽然有很多项目，但要再次扩大规模，风险太大了。政府的想法变得太快。”
This fiscal wheel-spinning would not be as much a concern if the other Abenomics policies were wielding a wider effect. But here in Saga, there are few signs the easy money is being put to good use. Lending at the Bank of Saga, the region’s biggest lender, “has been largely flat this year” with little signs of a pickup in demand for funds, said Takanori Nishikubo, a bank spokesman.
如果安倍经济学的其他政策发挥了更广泛的作用，这种财政浪费行为也不会引起太多担忧。但在佐贺，几乎没有迹象表明，这些轻易得来的钱会得到很好的利用。佐贺银行(Bank of Saga)是当地最大的放贷机构，银行发言人西洼孝则（Takanori Nishikubo，音译）表示，该银行的贷款“今年基本不活跃”，也没有任何迹象显示对资金的需求会有所增长。
Nor are consumers here starting to spend, and for good reason. Saga’s ratio of job offers to job-seekers, a crucial employment measure, continued to stagnate at 0.77 in September. An almost 20 percent jump in construction jobs was not enough to offset a loss of jobs in other sectors, according to the local government. With a tepid labor market, wages have also remained stagnant, as have consumer prices, because of weak demand, according to a November report released by the Fukuoka branch of the Bank of Japan.
这里的消费者也还没有开始花钱，原因很明显。今年9月，佐贺的岗位数量与求职人数的比例为0.77，这项衡量就业形势的重要标准依然停滞不前。据当地政府透露，建筑行业的岗位增加了将近20%，但这仍不足以抵消其他领域削减的岗位数量。根据日本银行(Bank of Japan)福冈支行11月发布的报告，劳动力市场缺乏动力，因此工资增长也停滞不前，由于需求疲软，消费者价格增长也出现停滞。
Mitsuko Maruko, who has run an electronics store in Saga for almost four decades, says she follows the upbeat news on Abenomics but sees no uptick in her own business. Her small store is one of the few retailers still doing business in her hamlet, Iwaya; many young people have left. She said she could not think of expanding or hiring outside help. Sales have been on a near-constant decline for the last two decades.
在佐贺经营一家电子产品商店近40年的圆子美津子（Mitsuko Maruko，音译）表示，她密切注意安倍经济学的利好消息，但她自己的生意连小幅增长都没有出现。圆子美津子所在村庄岩屋(Iwaya)仍有不多的几家零售店在营业，她的小商店就是其中之一。很多年轻人已经离开。她表示自己不会考虑扩大规模或者再雇帮手。在过去20年里，销售额几乎一直在下降。
“Absolutely nothing has changed,” Ms. Maruko said.
圆子美津子表示，“还没有出现任何变化。”
Still, in Saga’s Karatsu city, there is a bid to harness another aspect of Mr. Abe’s economic growth plan: cutting the red tape that inhibits businesses from starting or growing.
但佐贺县的唐津市正力争利用安倍晋三经济增长计划的另一面：削减抑制商业开展或增长的繁复手续。
Led by Bloom, a local company that conducts testing on imported cosmetics, a regional project is seeking to bring farmers and workshops together to produce cosmetics and perfumes.
Bloom是当地一家公司，对进口化妆品进行检验，在该公司的领导下，一个地区项目正试图促成农民与工厂合作，一起生产化妆品和香水。
Karatsu has earmarked about ¥10 million for the project so far, a pittance compared with the billions of yen going to construction. The hub is pushing for Saga to be named one of the government’s new “special economic zones,” a designation that could bring favorable tax rates, looser restrictions on hiring and firing, and other business-friendly measures.
到目前为止，唐津市对该项目的拨款已达到了约1000万日元，与用于建筑项目的数十亿日元相比，这微不足道。该中心正在努力推动，将佐贺设为一座新的政府“经济特区”，这将带来优惠的税率，比较宽松的雇佣和解聘限制，以及其他有利于商业发展的措施。
Saga officials say they have especially high hopes of revamping the agricultural sector by getting local farmers to grow valuable cosmetic ingredients, like traditional herbs.
佐贺的官员表示，通过让当地农民种植传统药草等重要的化妆品原料，来改造农业领域，他们抱有特别高的期望。
“The idea is to create something new in Saga,” said Shinji Yamasaki, Bloom’s chief executive. “For growth, you need new ideas.”
“目的是在佐贺创造一些新的东西，”Bloom首席执行官山崎信二(Shinji Yamasaki)说，“想要增长，你需要新的想法。”