TOKYO — Efforts to relocate a Marine air base that has been a longstanding irritant in ties between Japan and the United States suffered a new setback on Sunday when voters in a small Okinawan city re-elected a leftist mayor who promised to block construction of a replacement site.
东京——周日，冲绳县一座小城市的左翼市长重新当选，长期以来困扰日美两国关系的美国海军陆战队直升机基地的搬迁计划遭遇了新的挫折。这位市长曾承诺一定会阻挠搬迁计划。
The victory for the mayor of Nago, Susumu Inamine, dealt an embarrassing blow to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has invested his political capital in efforts to restart the long-stalled relocation deal, and who seemed to achieve a breakthrough last month by gaining the support of Okinawa’s governor.
名护市市长稻岭进(Susumu Inamine)成功连任，给了首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)尴尬的一击。安倍晋三投入政治资本，努力重启搁置已久的搬迁计划，而且上个月，他也赢得了冲绳县知事的支持，似乎取得了突破。
Mr. Abe, a conservative, has vowed to build closer ties with the United States at a time when both nations face growing challenges from a militarily resurgent China and a nuclear-armed North Korea.
保守派的安倍晋三曾誓言同美国建立更密切关系，两国目前共同面对着越来越大的挑战，一方面来自军事实力增强的中国，另一方面来自拥有核武器的朝鲜。
The relocation has been fiercely opposed by Okinawans, who want the base — the Marine Corps’ Air Station Futenma — off their island altogether. Opinion polls had forecast a victory for Mr. Inamine, who has opposed the nearly two-decade-old plan to move the base and its noisy helicopters and other aircraft from a heavily populated part of Okinawa to the fishing hamlet of Henoko, in a remote corner of his city.
搬迁计划遭到了冲绳县民众的激烈反对，他们希望这座美国海军陆战队直升机基地——普天间机场——彻底搬离冲绳岛。此前的民意调查也曾预测稻岭进将在选举中获胜。稻岭进曾对近20年前制定的这项搬迁计划表示反对，根据该计划，普天间基地以及轰鸣的直升机和其他飞行器将从冲绳县人口稠密的地区，迁移到偏僻的小渔村边野古，这座小渔村位于稻岭进担任市长的名护市。
In a high-profile attempt to swing the election, Mr. Abe had thrown his government’s political weight — and financial resources — behind a challenger in favor of the base plan, Bunshin Suematsu. A week before the vote, the Abe government even dangled the prospect of a half-billion dollars in new public works spending for the city, or the equivalent of more than $8,000 for each of Nago’s 63,000 residents.
安倍晋三曾高调地试图左右选举结果，他动用内阁的政治影响力，并且不惜财力，支持主张搬迁的另一位市长候选人末松文信(Bunshin Suematsu)。为了吸引选民，安倍内阁甚至在投票一周前表示，计划拨款5亿美元（约合30亿元人民币）给名护市用于新建市政工程，相当于名护市6.3万名居民，每人获得8000多美元的补贴。
Such offers of largess failed to win over Nago’s voters. Mr. Inamine, 68, a former school superintendent who was supported by the Japanese Communist Party and other progressive groups, received 19,839 votes, to 15,684 votes for the conservative, Mr. Suematsu, 65, a former member of the Okinawa prefectural assembly.
如此慷慨解囊也没能说服名护市的选民。68岁的稻岭进曾担任过学校教育长，他得到了日本共产党和其他进步团体的支持，以19839票比15684票的优势，击败了65岁的前冲绳县议员、保守派人士末松文信。
“Without the mayor’s approval and consent, this process cannot go forward,” Mr. Inamine told cheering supporters, referring to the base relocation plan. “In order to protect the future for our children, I will not allow a new base to be built.”
“没有市长的批准和同意，这项计划就无法进行，”稻岭进对欢呼的支持者说道，他指的就是军事基地搬迁计划。“为了保护我们孩子的未来，我不会允许再建一个新的军事基地。”
Mr. Abe has tried to succeed where his predecessors failed by reviving the deal to relocate Futenma, which was first struck in 1996 to appease anger in Okinawa over the gang rape of a schoolgirl by American military personnel the year before. The lack of progress in the deal has driven a wedge between Japan and the United States, which wants the new air base as part of a sweeping realignment of the Marines included in the Obama administration’s strategic “pivot” toward the Asia-Pacific region.
安倍晋三试图改写其前任失败的历史，重启日美双方于1996年签订的搬迁普天间基地的协议。协议签订前一年，驻日美军对一名日本女学生实施轮奸，在冲绳县引发众怒，为平息愤怒，两国签订了基地搬迁协议。然而，协议的实施一直没有进展，引发日美两国的分歧。在奥巴马政府“转向”亚太地区的战略指导下，美国很希望建设新的军事基地，作为海军陆战队全面调整的一部分。
Last month, Mr. Abe appeared to achieve a breakthrough when the governor of Okinawa, Hirokazu Nakaima, dropped his opposition to the project to approve landfill permits for construction of two runways in coral-filled waters off Henoko.
上月，安倍晋三似乎取得了突破：冲绳县知事仲井真弘多(Hirokazu Nakaima)改变此前反对的立场，转而批准在边野古附近布满珊瑚的海域填海造地，建造两条跑道。
But building the base will also require the use of ports and roads, which must be approved by the mayor. That approval is unlikely to be forthcoming from Mr. Inamine, who was first elected in 2010 on an anti-base platform and during the recent campaign vowed to block any construction “on land or sea.”
但建设军事基地也需要征用码头和公路，而这必须得到市长批准。而稻岭进当选后，这项工程不可能很快获得批准。2010年，稻岭进凭借反对基地搬迁的竞选纲领首次当选市长，在最近一次竞选活动中，他也誓言要阻止任何在“陆地或海洋”上的建设活动。
After Mr. Inamine’s victory late Sunday night, hundreds of supporters gathered at his campaign office, some in tears, others vowing angry defiance.
周日晚间稻岭进获胜后，成百上千的支持者聚集在他的竞选办公室，一些人热泪盈眶，另外一些人则愤怒地表示会继续反抗。
“If anything, we feel Mr. Nakaima betrayed us by flip-flopping,” Etsuko Urashima, 65, a writer who lives in Nago, said by phone. “That made us want to say even more loudly, ‘No base!’ ”
“我要说的就是，我们觉得仲井出尔反尔，背叛了大家，”家住名护市65岁的作家浦岛悦子(Etsuko Urashima)接受电话采访时表示。“这反倒会让我们更大声地反对，‘不要基地！’”
Mr. Inamine’s re-election leaves Mr. Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party with a tough decision. It can either wait another four years until the city’s next mayoral election in hopes of electing a conservative candidate, or try to force construction over the current mayor’s objections — a move that political analysts said could set off huge protests.
稻岭进连任成功，使安倍领导的执政党自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)面临艰难选择。它可以选择再等四年，期待该市下一次市长选举时，某个保守派候选人当选，也可以不顾现任市长的反对，强行推进基地建设——政治分析家认为此举可能会引发大规模抗议。
“I don’t think the Abe government is just going to give up easily,” said Akira Kimura, an international relations specialist at Kagoshima University, “but this could quickly come to a head if Mr. Abe tries to force construction.”
“我认为安倍政府不会就这么轻易放弃，”鹿儿岛大学(Kagoshima University)国际关系专家木村朗(Akira Kimura)表示。“但如果安倍试图强行推进基地建设，将很快引发危机。”
In Tokyo, governing party lawmakers expressed disappointment with the result. They said the outcome would not change their plans to relocate the base, which they said would ultimately lead to a reduction in the American presence as thousands of Marines are redeployed to Guam, Australia and Hawaii.
在东京，执政党议员对选举结果表达了失望。他们称稻岭进当选不会改变他们搬迁军事基地的计划，表示该计划最终将缩减驻日美军的规模，因为数千名海军陆战队士兵将被重新部署到关岛、澳大利亚和夏威夷。
“We will continue to work for the development of Okinawa and reduction of the base presence,” said Takeo Kawamura, chairman of the party’s election strategy committee.
“我们将继续为冲绳的发展和美军基地规模缩减而努力，”自民党选举对策委员长河村建夫(Takeo Kawamura)说。
Arguments that the relocation will lessen their burden have failed to sway many Okinawans, who view Futenma as a symbol of what they see as an onerous American presence that contributes to pollution and crime on their tropical island. They also rail against what they call their island’s disproportionate sacrifice: more than half of the 50,000 United States military personnel in Japan are currently stationed on Okinawa.
搬迁基地将减轻冲绳县民众负担的说法没能说服多少当地人，在他们看来，普天间基地是驻日美军所带来的巨大困扰的象征，基地造成了污染，还加剧了这座热带小岛的犯罪。他们也抱怨道，冲绳岛做出了过多牺牲：目前驻日的5万名美军中超过一半驻扎在冲绳。
During the campaign for mayor, Mr. Inamine dismissed the offers of money from Tokyo as an effort to buy votes and silence grievances.
在市长竞选过程中，稻岭进抨击东京提供的补贴是为了买选票，压制不满。
“Nago’s residents will be the ones who choose Nago’s mayor,” he said Saturday. “Nago’s residents choose to reject Henoko.”
“名护市居民才有权选择它的市长，”稻岭进周六称。“名护市居民的选择是，反对在边野古建基地。”