The police said on Monday that eight people were arrested after fistfights broke out between ultranationalist Japanese shouting anti-Korean slogans and counterprotesters on the streets of Tokyo, where public violence is rare.
警方周一称，一些呼喊着反韩口号的日本极端民族主义者在暴力少见的东京街头和反对他们的抗议者发生斗殴，造成八人被捕。
Among those arrested was Makoto Takada, 41, better known by his pseudonym Makoto Sakurai, the leader of an anti-foreign ultraconservative group that has recently gained attention for staging repeated demonstrations in an ethnically Korean neighborhood. During those marches, members of the group have waved Japanese war flags and shouted slogans like “Kill Korean residents,” raising calls for the creation of anti-hate-speech laws.
被捕者中包括41岁的高田诚(Makoto Takada)，他的化名樱井诚(Makoto Sakurai)更为人所知。他是某排外极端保守团体的领导，该团体最近受到了关注，原因是它多次在韩国人聚集区举行示威游行。游行中，该团体成员挥舞着日本战旗，并且呼喊像“杀死在日韩国人”之类的口号，引发了出台反仇恨言论法的呼吁。
The group is known in Japan as the Zaitokukai, but its full name translates as the Citizens Group That Will Not Forgive Privileges for Koreans in Japan. Claiming 12,000 members, it is the most visible of a new batch of ultranationalist groups known as the Net right because they use the Internet to organize. Though relatively small in size, they have gained public attention in recent years as the virulent side of Japan’s anxiety over its declining economic and political position in Asia.
该团体在日本被称为“在特会”(Zaitokukai)，其完整名称则可译为“不容忍在日韩国人享有特权市民会”(Citizens Group That Will Not Forgive Privileges for Koreans in Japan)。该团体声称自己拥有成员1.2万人，是新一批极端民族主义团体中最突出的一个团体。这一批新团体被称为“网”(Net),因为他们使用互联网来组织活动。这些团体规模相对较小，但却还是在最近几年受到了公众关注。日本对自身在亚洲不断下降的经济和政治地位感到不安，这些团体体现的就是这种不安情绪的恶毒一面。
The fights, in Tokyo’s Shinjuku district, began on Sunday afternoon when about 200 Zaitokukai members, led by Mr. Takada, assembled to stage a demonstration in a Korean neighborhood, Okubo, the police said. The would-be marchers were intercepted by about 350 members of a counterprotest group shouting “Racists go home,” the police said.
警方说，斗殴于周日下午发生在东京的新宿区，当时有大约200名在特会成员在高田诚的带领下聚集在韩国人社区大久保(Okubo)进行示威。警方称，一个反对团体的大约350名成员拦截了即将进行的游行，这些反对者呼喊着“种族歧视者滚回家”。
The police said Mr. Takada spit on one of the counterprotesters, identified as Sei Yoshiaki, 46, who in turn knocked off Mr. Takada’s glasses. Fights broke out between the two groups, the police said, and Mr. Takada and three other members of his group were arrested, along with four of the counterprotesters.
警方称，高田诚朝46岁的反对者义明生（Sei Yoshiaki，音译）吐唾沫，后者则反过来打落了高田诚的眼镜。警方说，两个团体随即爆发混战，高田诚及其团体内的三名成员遭到逮捕，对方团体中也有四名成员被捕。