TOKYO — Japan’s foreign minister on Sunday refused to recognize China’s newly claimed air defense zone over disputed islands, signaling that Japan would not back down as tensions increased in the maritime dispute.
东京——周日，日本外相拒绝承认中国在争议岛屿上空新划的防空识别区，表明日本不打算在进一步加剧的海上争端中退让。
The foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, was responding to a move by China on Saturday declaring an “air-defense identification zone” that would give it the right to identify and possibly take military action against aircraft near the islands in the East China Sea, which are administered by Japan but claimed by China and Taiwan. China’s announcement appeared to be the latest step in what analysts have called a long-term Chinese strategy to chip away at Japan’s claims to being in control of the uninhabited islands. Japan has long maintained a similar air-defense zone over them.
日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)是在回应中国的行动，因为中国于周六宣布划定“防空识别区”，此举将使中方有权识别在东海争议岛屿附近活动的飞行器，还可能对这些飞行器采取军事行动，这些岛屿由日本实控，但中国大陆和台湾均声称拥有其主权。中方的声明似乎是中方战略中的最新一步，据分析人士所说，中国正在通过一项长期战略逐步削弱日本对这些无人岛屿拥有控制权的主张。长期以来，日方在争议岛屿上空维持着类似的防空区。
Mr. Kishida called the Chinese declaration a dangerous escalation that could lead to what many military analysts most fear in the already tense standoff: a miscalculation or accident that could cause events to spin out of control, leading to an armed confrontation that could drag in the United States.
岸田文雄称中方的声明是一次危险的升级行动，有可能在业已紧张的僵局之下引发许多军事分析员最担忧的局面：误判或事故导致事态失控，引发可能致使美国卷入的武装冲突。
“It was a one-sided action and cannot be allowed,” Mr. Kishida told reporters, according to Japan’s Kyodo News. It could also “trigger unpredictable events,” he warned.
根据日本共同社(Kyodo News)的报道，岸田文雄对记者说，“这是一次单方面的行动，我们无法接受。”他警告称，这种行动还可能“引发不测后果”。
On Saturday, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel also warned in a statement that the American government viewed the Chinese move “as a destabilizing attempt to alter the status quo in the region.” He also reaffirmed that the United States would stand by its security treaty obligations to aid Japan if it were attacked.
周六，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)也在一则声明中警告称，美国政府把中国的举动视为“企图改变地区现状的一种破坏稳定的尝试”。他还重申，如果日本受到攻击，美国将履行安保条约义务，援助日本。
For now, the United States and Japan seem to be trying to determine how serious China is about policing its newly declared air zone, or whether the declaration is actually a political gesture aimed at appeasing nationalist sentiments at home. However, it is equally unclear how far Japan would be willing to go in response if China does try to enforce it. Mr. Kishida offered no indication about whether Japan would take any countermeasures, like increasing its own patrols in the airspace over the islands, known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in Chinese.
就目前而言，美日似乎正在努力确定，中国是真的想对新划定的防空区实施管制，抑或只是通过宣布防空区来摆出一种政治姿态，意在平息国内民族主义者的不满情绪。然而，同样不明朗的是，如果中国确实意图管制防空区，日本将会做出多激烈的回应。岸田文雄没有说明日本会不会采取反制措施，比如增加己方对争议岛屿空域的巡逻，这些岛屿在日本被称为尖阁诸岛，在中国被称为钓鱼岛。
In an early sign of the dangers raised by the new development, Japan’s Defense Ministry said on Saturday that it had scrambled two F-15 fighters to intercept a pair of Chinese surveillance planes approaching the islands. It said the two Chinese planes turned back without incident.
一个初期的迹象表明，这一新发展带来了危险。日本防卫省(Defense Ministry)周六称，已紧急派出两架F-15战斗机拦截正在逼近相关岛屿的两架中国侦察机。防卫省还表示，中国的侦察机已经返回，没有出现什么情况。
By setting up a competing air-defense zone, China may be trying to demonstrate that its claim to being in administrative control of the islands is as convincing as Japan’s, Japanese officials said. They said China appeared to have a similar objective last Thursday, when Chinese coast guard officers boarded Chinese fishing boat in waters near the islands.
日本官员称，中国设立与日本防空区有重合的防空识别区，或许是为了对外展示，自己实际管辖控制着相关岛屿的说法和日本的同类说法一样令人信服。他们说，中国上周四的举动似乎也是出于类似的目的。当时，中国海警登上了争议岛屿附近水域的中国渔船。
When hailed by a Japanese coast guard vessel, a Chinese coast guard ship said it was monitoring fishing activities in what it called Chinese waters; the Japanese ship responded that the actions were unacceptable if they were intended to demonstrate Chinese sovereignty of the sea near the islands, Japan’s coast guard said.
日本海上保安厅称，一艘日本海上巡逻船呼叫了那艘中国海监船，中国海监船称自己正在监控所谓的中国海域的捕鱼活动，日方船只则回应称，如果中方船只的行动意在宣示中国对岛屿附近海域的主权，那就是不可接受的。
Since last year, China has been sending coast guard ships and other paramilitary vessels near or into Japanese-claimed waters around the islands on almost a daily basis, after the Japanese government bought three of the tiny islands. China viewed the purchase as a Japanese effort to bolster its claims to the islands, although Tokyo said it was trying to prevent the islands from falling into the hands of an ultranationalist politician.
自从去年日本政府买下其中三座小岛后，中国几乎每天派海监船和其他准军事船只接近或进入争议岛屿附近日本声称拥有主权的水域。中国认为日本的购岛行为是为了支持自己对这些岛屿拥有主权的说法，东京方面则称自己是为了防止这些岛屿落入极端民族主义政客之手。
China maintains that the islands were unlawfully taken from it when Japan began its empire-building in the late 19th century. Japan says it peacefully annexed empty islands that were unclaimed at the time by China or any other nation.
中国坚称这些岛屿是日本在19世纪末开始进行帝国扩张时用非法手段夺去的。日本则称自己是以和平方式兼并了这些无人岛屿，兼并之时，中国或其他任何国家并未声称对其拥有主权。