TAIPEI, Taiwan — The Asahi Shimbun, Japan's second-largest daily newspaper, retracted an influential report on the Fukushima nuclear disaster Thursday after weeks of criticism from other media organizations.
台湾台北——在被其它媒体组织指责数周之后，日本第二大日报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)于本周四撤回了一篇影响甚广的关于福岛核灾难的报道。
The move, which included an apology, came a month after the newspaper retracted a series of stories on another hot-button issue, Japan's wartime legacy.
在本次撤回报道并道歉的一个月前，该报还撤回了关于另一个热点问题的系列报道：日本二战的相关问题。
“We hurt readers' trust in our reports,” Tadakazu Kimura, Asahi Shimbun's president and chief executive officer, said at a news conference Thursday evening.
“我们的报道损害了读者对我们的信任，”朝日新闻社社长兼首席执行官木村伊量(Tadakazu Kimura)在周四晚间的新闻发布会上说。
Kimura announced that he was dismissing Nobuyuki Sugiura, Asahi Shimbun's executive editor, and would punish other editors involved in the Fukushima reporting. Kimura said he would decide whether he himself would resign after carrying out a “drastic restructuring plan.”
木村伊量称，他解雇了朝日新闻社的执行主编杉浦信之(Nobuyuki Sugiura)，并将处罚参与福岛报告其他编辑。木村伊量说，他将进行“大刀阔斧的重组计划”，然后决定自己是否也会辞职。
In May, the newspaper cited testimony given by the Fukushima plant manager, Masao Yoshida, in reporting that about 650 workers disobeyed orders and fled the Fukushima Daiichi power plant at a critical moment during the disaster in 2011.
今年5月，该报在报道中援引前福岛第一核电站管理者吉田昌郎(Masao Yoshida)的话，称2011年发生核灾时，约650名工人不服从命令，在关键时刻逃离了这所核电站。
In recent weeks other Japanese news organizations have reported on Yoshida's testimony. Reports from The Mainichi Shimbun, The Yomiuri Shimbun and The Sankei Shimbun, three other leading newspapers, and the Kyodo News agency portrayed his comments differently, saying that the exodus was the result of miscommunication.
近几周来，日本其他一些新闻机构对吉田昌郎的证词进行了报道。《每日新闻》(Mainichi Shimbun)、《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri Shimbun)和《产经新闻》(Sankei Shimbun)这三家大报，以及共同社(Kyodo News)的报道均对其证词做出另一种表述，称大批工人的离去源于沟通方面的误解。
Yoshida died last year of throat cancer at the age of 58. His interviews with investigators stretch more than 400 pages.
去年，58岁的吉田昌郎因咽喉癌过世。调查者从他那里采集到的证词长达400多页。
Yoshida, who is regarded by many in Japan as a hero for preventing a wider disaster, had asked that the contents of his interviews not be made public. The government, however, released the text of his interview Thursday, saying it was necessary to clarify the public record.
很多日本人把吉田昌郎视为英雄，认为他阻止了灾难的升级。吉田昌郎曾要求不要把自己的证词公之于众，但日本政府本周四公开了这些证词，称有必要对公共领域的信息加以澄清。
Since the Fukushima disaster, the liberal Asahi Shimbun has campaigned against nuclear power in its editorial pages, saying it regretted its earlier support. The conservative Yomiuri Shimbun has been critical of Asahi's coverage, saying its report on Yoshida's testimony “caused serious misunderstandings among the international media.”
自福岛灾难发生以来，自由派的《朝日新闻》曾在社论中反对核电，并表示后悔之前曾予以支持。而保守的《读卖新闻》批评了《朝日新闻》的相关报道，并称其对吉田昌郎证词的报道“引起了国际媒体的严重误解”。