TOKYO — Japan emerged from recession at the end of 2014, government data showed on Monday, though the surge of economic growth — the country’s first since early last year — was weaker than experts had forecast.
东京——周一，政府数据显示，日本经济于2014年底走出衰退，不过尽管自去年初以来首次取得经济增长，但势头并不像专家预期的那么强劲。
In a preliminary report, the Cabinet Office said gross domestic product expanded at an annualized rate of 2.2 percent in the quarter through December. The economy had contracted in each of the two previous quarters, a downturn widely blamed on higher taxes.
日本内阁府在初步报告中称，在截至去年12月底的第四季度，日本国内生产总值的年化增长率为2.2%。在之前的两个季度里，经济均出现了收缩。人们普遍认为这种衰退是由于增税造成的。
The return to growth was less decisive than experts had predicted, however, and may fail to erase concerns that the economy remains fragile despite a two-year stimulus campaign initiated by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Economists surveyed by news agencies had forecast an expansion of 3.7 percent on average.
然而，与专家的预测相比，恢复增长的势头并没有那么强劲，而且可能还无法消除人们对经济仍然脆弱的担心——虽然首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)发起了一项为期两年的经济刺激计划。新闻机构此前调查的经济学家预计的增长率均值为3.7%。
Since he returned to power at the end of 2012, Mr. Abe has been trying to inject life into the economy through a set of pro-growth policies known as Abenomics. Much of the work has been carried out by the Bank of Japan, the central bank, which is creating money on a vast scale by buying government bonds and other assets.
自2012年末重新掌权以来，安倍晋三一直试图通过一系列名为“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)的促增长政策，来为经济注入活力。其中的大部分工作都由央行日本银行(Bank of Japan)实施。通过购买政府债券和其他一些资产，日本银行为市场注入了大量资金。
The bank’s measures are keeping borrowing costs extremely low — an invitation for more spending and investment. They are also holding down the yen’s exchange rate, which helps big manufacturing companies like Toyota and Hitachi that sell large quantities of their products in foreign markets. The stock market is up and corporate profits are at record highs.
央行的举措把借贷成本保持在极低水平——为了促进消费和投资。这些举动还在压低日元汇率，有助于丰田(Toyota)和日立(Hitachi)等大型制造业公司向海外市场出口大量产品。股市上扬，企业利润也创下历史新高。
That Japan nonetheless fell into recession last year was a surprise and a worry. A long-planned increase in the national sales tax, carried out in April, hit consumers harder than the government and most economists had expected, calling the effectiveness of Mr. Abe’s approach into question. Wages are still falling, adjusted for inflation, and many workers feel left out.
不过，日本去年还是陷入了衰退。这有些出人意料，也令人担心。酝酿已久的提高全国消费税的计划于4月开始实施。它给消费者带来的冲击，要比政府和大多数经济学家的预期更加严重，从而使得安倍晋三政策的有效性遭到质疑。考虑通货膨胀因素之后的工资水平仍在不断下降，许多劳动者产生了被抛弃的感觉。
But economists say 2015 could be a more forgiving year for Abenomics. Mr. Abe has postponed a second increase in the sales tax, hoping to avoid a fresh blow to consumer confidence. And the slide in oil prices since the middle of last year is expected to benefit an economy that is largely dependent on imported energy.
不过，经济学们家称，对于安倍经济学，2015年可能是更有利的一年。安倍晋三已经推迟了消费税的第二轮增长，希望能避免对消费者的信心造成新的打击。自去年年中开始的油价暴跌，预计也将给这个在很大程度上依赖进口能源的经济体带来好处。
The weaker yen has also begun to spur domestic manufacturing activity by increasing the demand for exports from Japan. Tourism, too, is booming, as once prohibitively expensive Japanese cities start to look cheap to travelers from countries with stronger currencies.
通过增加日本的出口需求，日元的贬值也开始对国内制造业的活力形成刺激。旅游业同样在蓬勃发展，因为对于那些来自货币较为强劲的国家的游客而言，一度贵得令人望而却步的日本市镇的开销开始变便宜了。
Consumer spending and business investment grew fractionally in the quarter to December, Monday’s report showed, while exports increased at their fastest pace since early 2014. But housing investment continued a decline that began after the tax hike in April.
周一的报告显示，在截至12月底的第四季度中，消费支出和商业投资仅略有增加，而出口却在以自2014年年初以来最快的速度攀升。但是，住房投资仍在延续4月提高税率后开始的下滑趋势。