GUADALCANAL, Solomon Islands — Using a trowel to dig into the shadowy floor of the rain forest, pausing only to wipe away sweat and malaria-carrying mosquitoes, Atsushi Maeda holds up what he has traveled so far, to this South Pacific island, to find: a human bone, turned orange-brown with age.
所罗门群岛瓜达尔卡纳尔岛——热带雨林里，前田敦（Atsushi Maeda，音译）在树荫下用铲子挖地，只有在擦汗水，赶走携带疟疾病毒的蚊子时，才稍作停顿。他长途跋涉，来到这个南太平洋岛国，就是为了寻找一些人类遗骸。年深日久，遗骸已经变成了橙褐色。
Mr. Maeda, 21, was looking for the remains of missing Japanese soldiers at the site of one of World War II’s most ferocious battles. Others have done this work before him, mostly aging veterans or bereaved relatives. But he was with a group of mostly university students and young professionals, nearly all of them under 40 and without a direct connection to the soldiers killed here.
前田敦现在21岁，他在二战期间最激烈的战役之一的遗址处，寻找的日本士兵的遗骸。在他之前，其他人也做过这种搜寻工作，其中大多是退伍老兵或失去亲人的家属。但像前田敦这样的一批不到40岁的年轻人，其中大多是大学生和年轻的专业人士，他们和在这里阵亡的士兵几乎全都没有直接的关系。
They had come to honor their countrymen, many of whom were no older than they are when they fell on the battlefield. The group was also searching for answers. “These young men who died here believed they were defending their family and loved ones,” said Mr. Maeda, a university junior in religious studies. “We need to rediscover their sacrifices and learn from them.”
他们前来这里悼念的同胞，阵亡的时候，很多都和他们年龄相仿或者更年轻。而且这个团队也在寻找答案。“这些在这里丧生的年轻人，相信自己是在保卫家庭和亲人，”前田敦说，他是宗教学专业的大三学生。“我们需要重新发现他们的牺牲，向他们学习。”
As the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II approaches, there has been a surge in interest among young Japanese about the disastrous war that their nation has long tried to forget.
随着二战70周年纪念接近尾声，日本年轻人对二战的兴趣大增，虽然该国长期以来试图忘记这场导致灾难的战争。
It is a phenomenon that crosses political lines, encompassing progressives who preach the futility of war as well as conservatives who question the historical record of Japan’s wartime atrocities. What these young people have in common is an urgent sense that they learned too little about the war, both from school, where classes focus on earlier Japanese history, and from tight-lipped family members, who prefer not to revisit a painful time.
这个现象超越了政治倾向，无论是宣扬战争有弊无利的革新派，还是对日本战时暴行的历史记录提出质疑的保守派，都对它很感兴趣。这些年轻人的共同之处是具有一种紧迫感，觉得自己对二战了解太少，因为学校的课程侧重于日本的早期历史，不想重温当年痛苦的的家人对此守口如瓶。
Driving this nationwide pursuit into the past has been China’s hostility toward Japan over control of disputed East China Sea islands, known in China as the Diaoyu and in Japan as the Senkaku. Despite recent diplomatic maneuvering to ease tensions, anxiety about China’s rise remains strong in Japan.
中国因日本控制了东海一处存有争议的岛屿而产生的敌意，推动了这波“寻找过去”的全国性热潮。那些岛屿在中国称为钓鱼岛，在日本称尖阁列岛。尽管最近有一些外交活动在努力缓解这种紧张关系，日本人对中国崛起仍然抱有强烈的焦虑感。
“For the first time since 1945, Japan is facing a small but real possibility of conflict,” said Yurie Chiba, a magazine editor who organizes talks by veterans, has written about the new interest in World War II and argues that Japan must never go to war again. “This makes people want to learn more about those who fought in the war, to rediscover how horrible war can be.”
“自从1945年以来，这是日本首次面临真正发生冲突的可能，虽然这些可能性比较小。”千叶百合恵（Yurie Chiba，音译）说，她是一名杂志编辑，组织过退伍军人讲座，写过人们对二战产生新兴趣的文章，她认为，日本必须防止再次陷入战争。“所以人们希望更多地了解那些参加过战争的人，重新发现战争有多么的可怕。”
Kankoh Sakitsu, 42, the head priest of a Buddhist temple in Tokyo who organizes expeditions to Guadalcanal, has seen interest among young people grow after his first trip here in 2008. Since then, he has arranged three other journeys for groups of Japanese, including this one in September.
崎津观光（Kankoh Sakitsu，音译）现年42岁，是东京一座寺院的住持，他是前往瓜达尔卡纳尔岛行程的组织者，见证了年轻人对这个活动的兴趣增长。崎津观光2008年首次抵达该岛，自那之后，他又安排了三个日本团前往该岛，其中就包括今年9月的这批。
Mr. Sakitsu originally went to Guadalcanal to pray at the battle sites out of a sense of contrition because he feels Japanese Buddhism failed to oppose the war in the 1930s and 1940s, and so shares responsibility for it.
崎津观光是在一种忏悔感的驱使下第一次去瓜达尔卡纳尔的，他前往战争遗址处祈祷，因为他觉得日本佛教界没有对20世纪30年代和40年代的战争提出反对，对此负有一定的责任。
Once on the island, he was shocked when a relics collector brought him the bones of Japanese soldiers. He became determined to hunt for the remains of some 7,000 of his countrymen still missing on Guadalcanal, victims of the six-month battle that started in August 1942 and helped turn the Pacific war in favor of the United States and its allies.
抵达瓜达尔卡纳尔岛后，一位文物收藏家交给了他一些日本士兵的遗骸，让他感到很震惊。于是他下决心，要在这座岛上寻找约7000具至今下落不明的同胞遗骸，这些日本士兵在1942年8月开始的一场战役中阵亡。战役持续了六个月，帮助美国及其盟国逆转了在太平洋战争中的不利局面。
Mr. Sakitsu said most of the 36,000 Japanese soldiers dispatched here were unaware of the strategic objectives for their country’s aggression in the South Pacific. “They just saw themselves as answering the call of their nation,” he said. Some 22,000 Japanese and 7,000 Americans died on Guadalcanal.
崎津观光称，被派往这里的3.6万名日本士兵中，大部分人不清楚自己的国家入侵南太平洋的战略目标。“他们仅仅认为自己是在响应国家的号召，”他说。大约有2.2万名日军和7000名美军在瓜达尔卡纳尔岛阵亡。
Realizing that veterans were growing too old to continue to look for the 1.1 million Japanese still missing across Asia and the Pacific, Mr. Sakitsu hit on the idea of bringing in a new generation of Japanese to take over the hunt. When he posted an online recruiting ad, he was surprised at the number of replies from university students.
整个亚太地区有110万依然下落不明的日军。意识到老兵日渐衰老，无法继续寻找那些士兵的遗骸后，崎津观光突然想到了让新一代日本人接力寻找这个主意。将招募广告发布在网上后，大学生的回复数量令他大感吃惊。
Veterans and others donate to the expeditions, and the Health Ministry, which oversees the retrieval and repatriation of war remains, helps subsidize the ventures.
相关活动得到了老兵和其他一些人的捐款，以及负责阵亡日军遗骸的寻找和归国事务的厚生劳动省(Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare)的资助。
In Japan, the denials of war atrocities by the country’s nationalists often get attention. But the participants in the September expedition said they were part of a less-vocal majority who did not seek to glorify or whitewash the war that left three million Japanese soldiers and civilians dead, and their country in ruins. Rather, they simply want to recover memories of the war, particularly the experiences of ordinary soldiers who died on distant battlefields like Guadalcanal, an occurrence they do not want Japan to repeat.
在日本，民族主义者否认战争罪行的言行，往往会受到关注。但9月那次活动的参与者说，他们属于相对沉默的大多数。对那场导致300万日军和平民死亡，并让国家成为废墟的战争，这个群体既不谋求赞美它，也不试图洗白它。他们只是希望恢复有关那场战争的记忆，特别是那些在瓜达尔卡纳尔岛这样的遥远战场上阵亡的普通士兵的经历。他们不希望日本再发生这种事。
“This is not about nationalism or ideology, but a rediscovery of the sacrifices of common soldiers who were no older than many of our members when they died,” Mr. Sakitsu said.
“这件事无关民族主义或意识形态，只是重新发现那些普通士兵所作出的牺牲。他们战死沙场时，不比我们当中的许多人大，” 崎津观光说。
It is also, he said, about a realization that the generations who fought in the war will soon be gone, taking with them the last living links to a dark chapter in Japan’s history that the nation still struggles to come to terms with. The right-leaning government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for more positive portrayals of Japan’s wartime behavior, outraging the victims of 20th-century Japanese empire-building, like China and South Korea.
他表示，这也是因为意识到，参加过那场战争的那几代人将不久于人世，与日本历史上那个黑暗篇章相连的最后的活的纽带，也将随之而去。日本依然不愿承认那段历史。首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的右倾政府，呼吁对日本战时的行为进行更积极的描绘。此举激怒了日本20世纪疆域扩张活动的受害者，如中国和韩国。
One of the first to join Mr. Sakitsu in 2011 was Atushi Hirano, now a 22-year-old university senior studying to become a schoolteacher. He has been on all four expeditions. Mr. Hirano said that he had avoided so overtly political a topic until five years ago, when the death of his grandfather, a veteran who fought in China, made him suddenly realize that he had never talked with him about those war experiences.
平野淳（Atushi Hirano，音译）是2011年首批响应崎津观光号召的人之一。如今，22岁的他是一名大四学生，希望成为一名老师。四次活动他都参加了。平野淳称他一直避免这种明显具有政治色彩的话题，直到五年前，曾赴华作战的祖父的去世，让他突然意识到，他从未与祖父谈论过那些战争经历。
It was a resulting sense of remorse that brought him to Guadalcanal, Mr. Hirano said, a place most of his friends had barely heard of.
平野淳说，正是由此而生的懊悔让他来到了瓜达尔卡纳尔岛。他的大部分朋友几乎都没听说过这个地方。
“Coming here, seeing the bones and war relics, helping those who died finally return to Japan, these are the next best ways to learn,” he said. “How can we avoid repeating the mistake of the war if we don’t know what happened?”
“来到这里，看到那些遗骸和战争遗物，帮助那些亡灵最终回国，这些是退而求其次的学习方式，”他说。“如果都不知道发生过什么，我们何谈避免战争错误再次上演？”
Mr. Sakitsu, the leader, said the September group was special because it was joined for the first time by one of the last surviving Japanese veterans from the battle, Junshiro Kanaizumi. Mr. Kanaizumi, 95, was an army engineer who helped build roads in the jungle. Now bent and frail with age, shuffling to the edge of the jungle with the help of a walking stick, Mr. Kanaizumi wore the same khaki jumpsuit with a Japanese flag on one shoulder as the other members.
组织者崎津观光称，参加9月那次活动的团队颇为特殊，因为首次有一名老兵参加。在参加过那场战争的老兵中，金泉纯史郎（Junshiro Kanaizumi，音译）是最后一批尚在世的人之一。95岁的他当年是一名陆军工程兵，负责在丛林中修路。因为上了年纪而变得驼背、虚弱的他，拄着一根手杖慢慢来到丛林边上。和其他成员一样，他穿着卡其色连体服，一侧的肩上印着日本国旗。