TOKYO — An influential group representing families of Japanese soldiers killed in World War II has asked the Yasukuni Shrine to separate the 14 war criminals honored there from the other war dead, throwing its weight behind a longstanding proposal to make the site less of a political flash point.
东京——多年来一直有人提议，不要让靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)过多地成为政治冲突的导火索。一个代表二战阵亡军人家属的团体对这一建议表示了支持：它已经提请靖国神社把供奉在该处的14名战犯和其他战争死难者分开祭祀。
The Fukuoka Prefecture chapter of the War-Bereaved Families Association, or Izokukai, in southern Japan passed a resolution on Monday asking shrine officials to separate the Class A war criminals, who include Gen. Hideki Tojo, the wartime leader, from the other war dead honored at the shrine. While the idea of removing the 14 has been floated for years, this is the first time that a chapter of the Izokukai, one of the most powerful conservative interest groups in Japan, has supported such a move.
“遗族会”(Izokukai)设在日本南部福冈县的分会于周一通过了一项决议，提请靖国神社的决策人员将该社供奉的包括战时首相东条英机(Gen. Hideki Tojo)在内的14名甲级战犯与其他战争亡灵分别祭祀。尽管移除14名甲级战犯的意见已经被讨论了很多年，但这是遗族会——日本最有影响力的保守派利益团体之一——所辖分会首次对此表示支持。
The resolution comes at a time when the shrine, which honors Japan’s 2.5 million modern war dead, has become a chronic source of friction with China and South Korea, two victims of early 20th-century Japanese militarism that object to visits to Yasukuni by Japanese leaders. Japan’s current prime minister, Shinzo Abe, a vocal nationalist, increased tensions by visiting the shrine, in central Tokyo, last year.
上述决议出炉的时机是，供奉着250万近现代战争亡灵的靖国神社，已经成为日本同中韩两国发生摩擦的一个长期来源。作为20世纪早期日本军国主义的受害国，中国和韩国一直反对日本领导人参拜靖国神社。日本现任首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)是一个直言不讳的民族主义者，曾于去年参拜东京市中心的靖国神社，致使日本与两国的关系愈发紧张。
The visit was widely seen as a bid to please his supporters on the political right, including the Izokukai, which has been a fervent advocate of visits to Yasukuni to honor the war dead. For this reason, Monday’s resolution raised eyebrows in Japan by signaling a new flexibility in at least one chapter of the national group in the face of geopolitical tensions, though it remains to be seen whether other chapters will follow suit.
外界普遍认为，安倍想通过这次参拜取悦支持他的右翼政治势力，其中包括一直强烈主张参拜以纪念战争亡灵的遗族会。正是因此，周一通过的决议才会在日本引发一片错愕。它意味着，面对地缘政治冲突，至少这家全国性团体的一个分会已经表现出了新的灵活性。不过，其他分会是否会有样学样还有待观察。
The resolution is an effort to remove a main source of the controversy surrounding Yasukuni: its honoring of the souls of Class A war criminals, who were convicted by the postwar Tokyo Tribunal of crimes against humanity for starting the war. Seven of them were hanged; the others were imprisoned or died before they could be sentenced. None of the war dead honored at the shrine are buried there; the site just enshrines their souls under the beliefs of Japan’s native Shinto religion.
该决议旨在消除致使参拜靖国神社引发争议的一个主要源头：神社内供奉着因发动战争而在东京审判中被犯下反人类罪的甲级战犯。其中7名战犯被处以了绞刑，其他人或是入狱，或是在判决下达前就已经去世。靖国神社仅依照日本本土的神道教信仰供奉战死者的灵位，并没有死者埋葬在那里。
Those 14 were secretly added to the list of souls honored at Yasukuni by the shrine’s priests in 1978, a move that reflected the belief of some Japanese nationalists that the war criminals were actually patriots who were victims of victor’s justice by the triumphant Allies. When the enshrinement was made public a year later, in 1979, the emperor at the time, Hirohito, protested by refusing to visit Yasukuni, a boycott continued by his son, the current emperor, Akihito.
1978年，靖国神社的神官偷偷将14个甲级战犯移入了神社所供奉的亡灵名单合祭。此举反映出，日本的一些民族主义者认为：这些战犯实际上是爱国主义者，但成王败寇，他们才遭到战胜的同盟国的裁制。一年后的1979年，靖国神社内供奉甲级战犯的消息被公之于众，当时的天皇裕仁(Hirohito)拒绝参拜，以表抗议。他的儿子、现任天皇明仁(Akihito)延续了这一做法。
The honoring of the 14 has also been the main reason given by China and South Korea for their objections, starting in the 1980s, to Japanese politicians visiting the shrine. In those countries, the presence of the war criminals has helped make Yasukuni a symbol of Japan’s perceived lack of repentance for its wartime misdeeds.
从上世纪80年代开始，中国和韩国一直以靖国神社内供奉着14名甲级战犯为主要理由，反对日本政界人士前往参拜。战犯的存在，促使这两个国家把靖国神社视为日本对其在战争期间所犯罪行缺乏悔改之意的标志。
Proposals to remove the 14 have been made before, including by prominent members of the Liberal Democratic Party, which has governed Japan for most of the past six decades. Enshrining them elsewhere would allow Japanese politicians to honor their war dead without seeming to revere the wartime leaders, and their decision to start the war.
包括一些自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)要员在内，早就有人提议移除这14个甲级战犯。在过去60年的大部分时间里，自民党一直是日本的执政党。如果将这些战犯移走，日本政界人士就既能祭奠战争亡灵，又不会显得对战时领袖及其发动战争的决定心怀崇敬了。
However, the shrine, which is privately run, has so far resisted such efforts, saying that once a soul has been added to the shrine, it cannot be removed. It has also criticized pressure from politicians as a violation of the Japanese Constitution’s separation of church and state.
然而，迄今为止，由私人运营的靖国神社一直在抵制这类努力，宣称亡灵一旦被招进神社，就无法被移除了。它还批评对其施压的政界人士违法了日本宪法政教分离的规定。
The bereaved families association has long been seen as generally supportive of the shrine. However, some families have also objected to having their loved ones’ souls enshrined with those of the wartime leaders who sent them to their deaths in a suicidal war.
长期以来，外界认为遗族会基本支持靖国神社的做法。不过，也有一些家庭反对将其亲人的亡灵和把他们送上不归路的战时领导人供奉在一处。