TOKYO — Yielding to years of pressure to fall in line with the rest of the developed world, Japan’s Parliament outlawed the possession of child pornography on Wednesday, though it left a loophole for the nation’s thriving industry of sometimes sexually explicit manga comics.
东京——迫于多年来与其他发达国家保持一致的压力，日本议会周三宣布持有儿童色情作品为非法，不过还是为该国漫画业留下了一个漏洞。这个行业非常繁荣，其中时常能看到露骨的色情内容。
By an overwhelming margin, lawmakers from the governing and opposition parties joined to pass a bill that will strengthen a 1999 law that had banned the production and distribution of child pornography, but not its possession. The new law, which is expected to go into effect next month, will give violators a one-year grace period to get rid of pornographic images before they will be prosecuted.
来自执政党和反对派政党的议员合力以压倒性的优势通过了一项法案，该法案将强化1999年的一项法律。1999年的那项法律禁止制作和传播，但未禁止持有儿童色情作品。有望于下月生效的新法律将让违反者有一年的宽限期，以便去除色情图片，否则他们将被起诉。
However, in a concession to the nation’s powerful publishing industry, the new law will exempt illustrated images of sex acts involving children found in manga as well as anime cartoons and computer graphics.
然而，新法律将不适用于在漫画，以及卡通动画和计算机图形中发现的有儿童参与的性行为插图。这是对该国实力强大的出版业的让步。
Still, passage of the new law appeared to be a victory for conservative politicians, who had lamented the fact that Japan was the only member of groups of developed nations like the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or O.E.C.D., that still allowed the possession of child pornography.
但新法获得通过似乎是保守派政界人士的一个胜利。他们曾一直抱怨一个事实，即日本是经济合作与发展组织（Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development，简称OECD）等发达国家组织中唯一一个允许持有儿童色情作品的成员国。
Social pressure had also built up, as the Japanese police blamed the continuing legality of child pornography for a surge in criminal cases involving its production and circulation. Across Japan, the number of such criminal cases has jumped tenfold since 2000, to 1,644 cases last year, according to the National Police Agency.
社会压力也在增大，日本警方认为涉及儿童色情作品制作和传播的刑事案件激增，跟这些作品一直以来的合法地位有关。据日本警察厅(National Police Agency)称，自2000年来，日本全国这种刑事案件的数量已经增加了十倍，去年达到1644起。
Frustrated by the central government’s inaction on the issue, Tokyo moved three years ago to impose its own ban on the sale of sexually suggestive material involving children, which the city’s governor at the time, Shintaro Ishihara, said encouraged pedophilia.
三年前，对中央政府在这个问题上的无动于衷感到失望的东京自行颁布法规，禁止出售涉及儿童的有性暗示的内容。时任东京都知事石原慎太郎(Shintaro Ishihara)表示，这些内容是在怂恿恋童癖。
However, efforts to completely outlaw child pornography at the national level had been blocked by the nation’s publishing houses, for which the popularity of manga has offered a rare bright spot in an industry otherwise hit by declining sales of books and other print publications because of competition from the Internet.
然而，在全国范围内彻底宣布儿童色情作品为非法的努力，遇到了该国出版社的阻拦。对日本的出版社而言，漫画的受欢迎给该国的出版业提供了一个少有的亮点，否则，来自互联网的竞争导致图书和其他印刷刊物销量日渐下降，该行业将遭受重创。
It is not uncommon to find popular comics in Japan that depict naked or nearly naked prepubescent girls, sometimes engaged in explicit sex acts, for sale in neighborhood convenience stores.
在日本，画有裸体或几近裸体的、尚未进入青春期的女孩的连环漫画，摆在社区便利店里卖是常有的事情。有时，漫画中的女孩正在进行露骨的性行为。
Japanese leaders defended the exemption of manga from the new law, saying that it does not exploit real children because its depictions are imaginary. They also said they wanted to avoid curtailing artistic expression.
日本领导人为新法律不适用于漫画进行了辩护，称漫画没有利用真正的孩子，因为它的描绘是想象出来的。他们还表示希望避免限制艺术表达。
“While there are concerns that such illustrations might encourage the viewing of children as sexual objects, freedom of expression is also an important issue,” said the top government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga.
“尽管有人担心这种插图可能会助长把孩子视作性对象，但言论自由也是一个重要问题，”政府最高发言人、内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说。
The new law will also leave untouched gray areas such as the popular genre of “junior idols,” often 12- and 13-year-old girls who are photographed in sexually suggestive poses while scantily clad. Many of the idol bands in Japanese pop music also walk a fine line, with their high school- and even junior high school-age members appearing in magazines and on billboards wearing just lingerie or bikinis.
根据新法律，一些灰色地带，比如广受欢迎的“少年偶像”类作品，也不会受影响。“少年偶像”通常都是十二三岁的女孩，衣着暴露，摆着有性暗示含义的动作拍照。许多日本流行音乐偶像组合也在打擦边球，让高中甚至初中年龄的成员只穿着贴身内衣裤或比基尼出现在杂志和广告牌上。
While questions remain about where exactly the line will be drawn in deeming something pornographic, lawmakers said the new law was aimed at banning sexually explicit photographs and videos showing children. Possession of these will be punished with a prison term of up to one year, and a fine of up to about $10,000.
尽管如何界定色情作品还存在疑问，但议员们表示，新法律旨在禁止有孩子出现的色情照片和视频。持有人最高将被判处一年有期徒刑，以及最高约为1万美元（约合6.2万元人民币）的罚款。
Speaking in Parliament, the justice minister, Sadakazu Tanigaki, said he hoped the new law would spur a broader change in social attitudes by sending a clear signal that it is no longer acceptable to objectify children.
在议会发表讲话时，法务大臣谷垣祯一(Sadakazu Tanigaki)表示，他希望新法律能通过传递出不再接受把孩子当玩物的明确信号，促进社会态度发生更大的改变。
“We must fight against a tendency of looking at children as sexual objects, and allowing them to be taken advantage of, sexually and commercially,” he told the body’s upper house on Tuesday, a day before it voted the bill into law. The lower house had already passed the bill earlier in the month.
“我们必须反对这种把孩子视作性对象、让他们在性和商业方面被利用的倾向，”他周二在日本参议院说。一天后，参议院表决同意让该提案成为法律。众议院已在本月早些时候通过了该法案。