Japan and Poland are both experiencing epidemics of rubella, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued travel warnings suggesting that women who are pregnant or might be consult their doctors before visiting either country.
日本和波兰都在经历风疹疫情的爆发，美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)已经发布旅游警示，建议已怀孕或有受孕可能的女性在前往这两个国家前咨询她们的医生。
The disease, also known as German measles, usually causes only mild fever and rash in adults and children, but can be devastating to a fetus, causing stillbirth or a host of birth defects, including developmental disabilities, deafness, heart problems and cataracts.
风疹又名德国麻疹，对成人和儿童来说，通常只会引发低烧和皮疹，但它对胎儿的影响后果可能会十分严重，会导致死产或很多先天性缺陷，比如发育性残疾、耳聋、心脏问题及白内障。
Rubella cases in Japan have shot up to over 10,000 and are still increasing. Because of peculiarities in Japan’s vaccination history, nearly 75 percent of the cases are in men ages 20 to 40.
日本的风疹病例已经超过了1万例，数量仍在上升。由于日本疫苗接种史的特点，将近75%的病人都是20至40岁的男性。
Poland has had more than 26,000 cases this year.
波兰今年出现了2.6万多例风疹病人。
Japan normally gets more than twice as many American visitors as Poland — about 750,000 a year, compared with 350,000. And Japan’s outbreak is concentrated in cities like Tokyo and Osaka that are frequented by tourists and business executives, while Poland’s is not.
通常，日本每年接待的美国游客是波兰接待的美国游客的两倍多，前者大约为75万，后者为35万。日本的疫情主要集中在东京和大阪等游客及商务人员经常光顾的城市，而波兰情况并非如此。
Japan began vaccinating schoolgirls — but not schoolboys — against rubella in 1976, then in 1989 switched to vaccinating infants of both sexes against rubella, measles and mumps with one shot. Then problems with the mumps component caused a switch to individual shots, rendering coverage less uniform.
日本从1976年开始为女学生接种风疹疫苗，但没有为男学生接种。后来，日本在1989年开始为婴儿接种一种能预防风疹、麻疹及流行性腮腺炎的疫苗，接种对象不分性别。后来，疫苗中预防流行性腮腺炎的成分出现问题，日本转而提供三种疫苗，致使接种范围不十分均衡。
Most Japanese over age 50 had rubella in their youth and are immune, so the most vulnerable group is young men, and many outbreaks are in workplaces.
大多数年龄超过50岁的日本人年轻时都得过风疹，他们已经有了免疫力，因此最易感染的群体是年轻男性，很多人都是在工作场所感染风疹的。
Although at least five babies have been born with rubella-related birth defects, Japan’s Health Ministry has resisted calls for a nationwide immunization campaign. Local governments have subsidized shots for those who seek them from doctors.
虽然至少已有五名婴儿被发现患有由风疹引发的先天性缺陷，但日本厚生劳动省(Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare)已经拒绝了进行全国性免疫注射的要求。地方政府会补贴那些要求医生接种疫苗的人。
Rubella vaccine is available to Americans only in the triple measles/mumps/rubella formula, which is not recommended for pregnant women.
美国人只能接种针对麻疹、流行性腮腺炎及风疹的三合一疫苗，不推荐孕妇进行这种接种。