TOKYO — In a widely watched decision, a court in Kyoto on Monday ordered a far-right group to pay $120,000 in damages to an elementary school for ethnic Koreans after the group staged demonstrations using slogans that the court characterized as racist.
东京——周一，京都的一家法院做出了一个备受瞩目的判决，下令一个极右翼团体向一所朝韩裔小学支付12万美元（约合73万元人民币）的赔偿金。法院认为，该团体之前组织的游行中采用的口号属于种族歧视。
The ruling, by the Kyoto District Court, is one of the first court decisions in Japan to address a recent proliferation of street protests using hate speech against ethnic minorities, usually Koreans and Chinese. Most of the protests appear to have been organized by a vocal new group called the Zaitokukai, whose Web site says it has almost 14,000 members.
这项裁决由京都地区法院做出，属于日本对类似情况做出的首批法庭判决之一。在街头抗议活动中使用针对少数族裔的仇恨言论，在近年有愈演愈烈之势，而受害者往往是朝韩裔和华裔。多数此类抗议活动的组织方看来是一个名为“不允许在日外国人特权市民会”（Zaitokukai，简称“在特会”）的新兴活跃团体。协会网站称它拥有近1.4万名成员。
The Zaitokukai is the most extreme part of a new generation of ultranationalists known as the “Net right” because it uses the Internet to organize. While the group represents a tiny fringe in this otherwise law-abiding nation, its members have recently drawn attention for marches in Tokyo’s ethnic Korean neighborhood of Okubo, during which they shouted anti-Korean slogans. In June, several marchers were arrested after a confrontation with counterprotesters turned into fistfights, a rare occurrence in usually peaceful Tokyo.
新一代的极端民族主义被称为“网右”，因为它们利用互联网来进行组织，而“在特会”属于其中最极端的部分。在这个遵纪守法的国度，尽管该组织代表的是一小部分的边缘人群，但其成员近期获得了诸多关注，因为他们在东京的朝韩裔社区大久保进行了多次游行活动，其间高喊反朝韩裔的口号。今年6月，游行方与反对方发生冲突并演变成拳脚之争，导致数名游行者被捕。在通常风平浪静的东京，这样的斗殴是极为罕见的。
While some Japanese have compared the Zaitokukai to the skinheads or neo-Nazis of the West, sociologists say its members lack the same sort of clear race-based ideology and usually draw the line at violence. Rather, they say, members tend to be young Japanese men who feel disenfranchised by such personal failures as an inability to get a stable corporate job and then take out their resulting frustration by blaming foreigners.
一些日本人将“在特会”比作西方的光头党或新纳粹，不过，有社会学研究者称，该组织成员缺乏后者的那种清晰的种族意识形态，而且通常与暴力划清了界限。这些学者认为，“在特会”成员往往是因个人的失败——比如没有能力在大公司找到稳定的工作——而倍感失落的日本男青年，通过责怪外国人来发泄沮丧之情。
In the Kyoto case, members of the Zaitokukai held protests outside the Kyoto No. 1 Korean Elementary School between December 2009 and March 2010 and called the students spies and cockroaches, school officials said. As the marchers shouted through bullhorns, parents rushed to block them from entering the school, and teachers led the children in songs to drown out the insults, school officials said.
在京都的案例中，京都朝鲜第一初级学校(Kyoto No. 1 Korean Elementary School)称，2009年12月到2010年3月间，“在特会”成员在校园外组织了多次抗议活动，称学生是间谍和蟑螂。校方还表示，游行者通过扩音器高喊口号，与此同时，家长们纷纷赶来阻止他们闯入校园，教师们则带领孩子们唱歌以压过侮辱之声。
According to the suit filed by the school against members of the Zaitokukai, several children have since complained of stomach pains from anxiety and stress. In the suit, the school sought $300,000 in damages.
校方对“在特会”成员提起的诉状中称，其后有数名儿童表示因焦虑和压力而感到腹痛。校方在诉状中要求赔偿30万美元。
Zaitokukai members said the group was protesting the school’s unauthorized use of a neighboring city park for assemblies and other school activities. It also criticized the school for having a pro-North Korean stance, as many ethnic Korean schools in Japan do. This is a legacy of the years after the 1950-53 Korean War, when many ethnic Koreans in Japan felt obliged to take sides, and the socialist North was seen as more politically progressive than the then-authoritarian South.
“在特会”成员表示，协会当时抗议的是学校未经允许占用附近的市政公园来进行集会等校园活动。“在特会”还批评学校持有亲朝鲜立场。日本的许多朝韩裔学校都亲朝，这是1950年到1953年朝鲜战争的遗留问题。当时，许多在日本的朝韩裔感觉必须站队，而社会主义的朝鲜似乎在政治上比彼时处在威权统治下的韩国更进步。
In his ruling, the court’s presiding judge, Hitoshi Hashizume, said the group’s actions were illegal because they constituted racial discrimination. In addition to having to pay damages, members of the Zaitokukai were ordered to stay more than 600 feet from the school, which has since merged with a similar school in Kyoto.
本案的主审法官桥诘均(Hitoshi Hashizume)在宣判时称，“在特会”的行为构成种族歧视，因此违法。除了支付赔偿金以外，协会成员还不得踏入校外方圆600英尺（约合180米）的范围。事件发生后，该校已与京都的另一所同类学校合并。