TOKYO—Police officers and firefighters rescued almost two dozen people, including a 2-year-old infant, from beneath their collapsed houses on Sunday, a day after a powerful earthquake shook mountainous central Japan. At least 40 people were injured, but no fatalities were reported.
东京——在日本中部山区发生强烈地震后的第二天，周日，警察和消防员从倒塌的房屋下救出了20多人，其中包括一名两岁的幼儿。地震导致至少40人受伤，但尚无人员遇难的报告。
The police said hundreds of people were forced to find shelter in school gyms and other evacuation centers after the magnitude-6.7 quake struck near the city of Nagano on Saturday night. The police said at least 34 homes collapsed near the ski resort town of Hakuba, where some of the worst damage was concentrated.
警方称，周六夜里在日本长野县发生了里氏6.7级地震之后，数百人被迫在中小学体育馆及其他疏散中心避难。警方称，滑雪胜地白马村附近的至少34座房屋倒塌，一些最严重的损毁都集中在白马村。
Many more buildings were damaged, and the police warned of additional landslides caused by aftershocks. When it struck Saturday, the earthquake caused landslides that cut off roads and isolated residents, according to Japan’s Kyodo News Agency.
还有更多建筑遭到了损毁。此外，警方提醒说，余震可能会引发泥石流。据日本共同社(Kyodo News Agency of Japan)报道，周六地震发生时就引发了泥石流，并导致道路受阻，民众被困。
The police said rescuers in and near Hakuba had found 21 people trapped in their collapsed homes, including the infant, who was uninjured. Television footage showed police officers going door to door to make sure everyone was accounted for.
警方称，白马村及其周边地区的救援人员发现了21名被困在倒塌房屋中的民众，其中包括这名婴儿，孩子没有受伤。从电视画面上看，警方正挨家挨户地确定所有人的下落。
In other areas where there was less damage to buildings, the police said that the most serious injuries appeared to be blows to the head or broken bones caused by falling furniture and “butsudan,” household Buddhist shrines that are mounted on walls.
在其他建筑受损较小的地区，警方称最严重的伤似乎是掉落的家具和“佛坛”，即安放在墙上的佛龛造成的头部撞击，或是骨折。
Strong shocks were also felt at the nearby Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear plant, which had suffered light damage seven years ago from a similarly strong earthquake. This time, no damage was found, though alarms did sound at the pools holding spent fuel rods, said the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company.
附近的柏崎刈羽核电站也有强烈震感。在七年前的一场类似强度的地震中，该核电站轻微受损。这一次，核电站的运营商东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power Company)称，尽管存放乏燃料棒的水池的警报的确响了，但尚未发现受损情况。
The plant’s seven nuclear reactors were not online because all of Japan’s nuclear reactors have been shut down since the 2011 accident at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, which is several hundred miles northeast of the epicenter of Saturday’s earthquake.
核电站的七座核反应堆并未投入运行，因为自2011年的福岛第一核电站事故过以来，日本关闭了所有核反应堆。福岛第一核电站位于周六地震震中东北方向，距离数百英里。