TOKYO — A 7-year-old Japanese boy who disappeared nearly a week ago after his parents left him on the side of a mountain road to discipline him was found unharmed on Friday, the Japanese authorities said.
东京——日本当局宣布，失踪了近一周的一名7岁男童于周五被人发现，身体没有受伤。他的失踪是因为父母将他留在山路旁，以示惩戒。
The boy, Yamato Tanooka, wandered onto a military base about three miles from where he was left on Saturday on the northern island of Hokkaido. He was found early Friday morning by soldiers on a training exercise, exhausted but apparently uninjured, the local police said.
男童名为田野冈大和(Yamato Tanooka)，上上周六被留在日本北部岛屿北海道的山林中，后来走入了大约三英里外的一座军事营地。当地警方称，他在上周五的清晨被正在进行训练演习的几名军人发现，精疲力竭，但并无外伤。
The boy’s parents have faced harsh public criticism over the case, which has been covered intensively by the Japanese news media since his disappearance.
因为这件事，男童的父母受到公众的严厉指责。自从他失踪之后，日本新闻媒体对此进行了铺天盖地的报道。
“I’m full of gratitude. From now on, I’m going to take better care of him as he grows up,” Yamato’s father, Takayuki Tanooka, 44, said in comments on NHK, the national broadcaster. Some 200 police officers and volunteer rescue workers had been searching for the boy.
现年44岁的男童父亲田野冈贵之(Takayuki Tanooka)在日本的全国电视台NHK上表示，“我非常感激。今后，我会更好地照顾他成长。”为了找到这名男童，大约200名警员和志愿搜救人员加入了搜寻行动。
The parents initially told the police that their son had become separated from them while they were picking wild vegetables in the mountains. But they later changed their story, saying they had left their son on the side of the road as punishment for throwing stones at cars and people while they were on an outing.
孩子的父母起初告诉警方，一家人在山中摘野菜期间儿子与他们走丢。不过，他们后来改口，说是由于远足时儿子向汽车和他人掷石子而将他留在路边，以示惩罚。
They said they had driven off in their car, intending to scare him. But when they went back a short time later, the boy was gone.
二人表示，他们把车开走，想要吓唬一下儿子。但当他们不久后回到原地时，却不见他的踪影。
The police have not indicated whether they intend to pursue criminal charges against the parents.
警方还没有表明，是否准备以刑事罪名调查这对夫妇。
Three soldiers from the Japanese Ground Self-Defense Force found the boy in a cabin on the remote wooded military base on Friday morning, said Hiroki Komori, a spokesman for the 11th Brigade of the Northern Army, which trains there. The soldiers had ducked into the cabin to avoid a rain shower, Mr. Komori said.
日本陆上自卫队北部方面队第11旅团的发言人小森广记（Hiroki Komori，音）表示，三名自卫队员于周五清晨在一处树木繁茂的偏远军事营地的木屋中找到了田野冈大和。那里是该旅团的训练场。他还称，三人当时是为了躲雨进入了木屋。
The soldiers gave the boy rice balls and tea from a canteen, Mr. Komori said. He was taken to Hakodate Municipal Hospital by ambulance.
小森广记说，自卫队员将来自食堂的饭团和茶给了男童。后来，救护车把他送去了函馆市立医院。
Japanese news reports said the boy had probably been sheltering for days in the cabin. He told the authorities that he had found his way to the area soon after his parents left him and had been subsisting only on water from a nearby stream, reports said.
日本媒体报道，田野冈大和很可能在木屋里藏了几天。他告诉当局，父母离开后不久，他就来到了这一区域，仅靠喝附近一条小溪的水维持。
Commentary about the case on social media has been overwhelmingly critical toward the parents. “This isn’t discipline, it’s child abuse,” Kenichiro Mogi, a well-known neurologist, author and television personality, wrote on Twitter on Monday.
社交媒体上对此事的评论绝大部分是对男童父母的批评。“这不是管教，这是虐待儿童，”茂木健一郎(Kenichiro Mogi)上周一在Twitter上表示。茂木健一郎是著名的神经科医师，著书立说，常上电视。
“It’s the boy’s father who has learned the big lesson,” another social media user said after he was found on Friday.
“得到大教训的是孩子的父亲，”另一名社交媒体用户在男童周五被找到之后称。
A few said the parents had simply mishandled an otherwise acceptable form of punishment. Some said they had been subjected to the same treatment from their own parents after misbehaving as children.
少数人表示，这对夫妇不过是没有处理好本来可以接受的一种惩罚形式。有些人说，他们小时候做错事之后会受到父母同样的对待。
“I understand, I really do, but they should at least have kept an eye on him from behind some trees,” one Twitter post from Sunday read. “There are bears in Hokkaido.”
“我理解，我真的理解，但是他们应该至少躲在树后面看着他吧，”上周日的一则Twitter帖子这样写道。“北海道有熊出没。”