TOKYO — Japanese leaders indicated on Tuesday that their nation would not become a founding member of a new Chinese-led Asian development bank but instead remain loyal to the United States, which has urged its allies to refrain from joining.
东京——日本的一些领导人周二表示，该国不会成为由中国牵头成立的一家新的地区性开发银行的创始成员国，而是将继续忠于美国。美国此前曾敦促其盟友不要加入这家银行。
The officials cited concerns about the management of the new lender, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, that echoed objections raised by Washington, which sees the bank as a challenge to American-led institutions like the World Bank. Local news reports quoted Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as saying it was important for strategic reasons that Japan stick with the United States even when other allies like Britain and Germany have announced they will join the new bank.
这些官员称，这么做的原因是对这家新银行——亚洲基础设施投资银行(Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank)——的管理存在担忧，这与华盛顿提出的反对理由一致。后者认为该行是对美国主导的世界银行(World Bank)等机构的挑战。当地媒体援引首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的话报道，虽然美国的其他盟友，如英国和德国已宣布将加入该行，但由于战略上的原因，日本仍然应该与美国站在一起。
“The United States now knows that Japan is trustworthy,” Mr. Abe was quoted by Kyodo News as telling a meeting of his governing Liberal Democratic Party.
“美国现在知道，日本值得信赖，”据日本共同社(Kyodo News)报道，安倍晋三在他领导的执政党自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)的会议上说。
The finance minister, Taro Aso, told a news conference that Japan would not contemplate joining until the new bank demonstrated that it had strict lending standards, including assessments of the environmental and social impacts of development projects.
日本财务大臣麻生太郎(Taro Aso)在一个新闻发布会上说，日本不会考虑加入亚投行，除非该行证明自己拥有严格的放贷标准，包括对开发项目的环境和社会影响的评估。
“We have no choice but to be very cautious about participation,” Mr. Aso said.
“我们对于加入亚投行必须非常谨慎，别无选择，”麻生太郎说。
Despite American objections, dozens of nations have signed up ahead of the March 31 deadline set by China to become founding members of the new bank, to be based in Beijing. The most recent to join include Australia and South Korea, two of the United States’ closest military partners in the region. South Korea’s decision reversed earlier expressions of agreement to American requests to stay away from the bank.
尽管美国提出了反对，但是仍有数十个国家在中国设定的3月31日最后期限之前，申请成为总部设在北京的亚投行的创始成员国。最新加入亚投行的国家包括澳大利亚和韩国，它们都是美国在该地区最亲密的军事伙伴。韩国的这一决定推翻了此前同意遵循美国意愿，远离亚投行的表态。
The decisions by so many allies to break with Washington have been seen as a sign of the growing financial clout of China, which has become the largest trading partner of many countries in the region. The new bank will confirm its founding members in April and aims to begin operating by the end of this year.
这么多盟友决定和华盛顿决裂被认为是一个迹象，表明中国的经济影响力日渐增强。中国已经成了该地区很多国家最大的贸易伙伴。新银行将在4月确认创始成员国，并打算在今年年底前开始运行。
While there have been calls in Washington for the United States to join, the Obama administration is viewed as unlikely to reverse its opposition. Many American officials appear concerned that the new lender will undermine the World Bank and also the International Monetary Fund, two pillars of the global financial order established by the United States after World War II.
尽管华盛顿有要求美国加入的呼声，但外界认为奥巴马政府不太可能转变反对立场。很多美国官员似乎担心，这家新的信贷机构会削弱世界银行和国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)的地位。它们是美国在二战后建立的全球金融秩序的两大支柱。
Although China has become Japan’s top trading partner, Tokyo has compelling security-related reasons for siding with the United States. Foremost among these is an intensified confrontation with China over control of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea that are claimed by both nations.
尽管中国已经成了日本最大的贸易伙伴，但东京站在美国一边，有令人信服的安全方面的理由。其中最重要的便是围绕东海无人居住岛屿的控制权，日本与中国之间加剧的对抗。两国均声称拥有相关岛屿的主权。
Eager to ensure that his nation has American backing in the standoff, Mr. Abe has tried to bind Japan more closely than ever to the United States, its postwar military protector. He is expected to emphasize Japan’s close friendship. and also its growing willingness to assume a larger military role in the region, when he visits the United States next month.
安倍晋三迫切希望确保自己领导的国家，能在这场对峙中得到美国的支持，于是试图把日本同美国比以往更紧密地捆绑在一起。战后，美国是日本在军事上的保护国。下月访问美国时，安倍晋三预计会强调日本的亲密友谊，以及日本有更强的意愿在该地区承担更大的军事角色。
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will start with about $50 billion in capital and a mission to help Asia develop even more quickly by investing in roads, dams, communication networks and other such large-scale projects.
亚投行的启动资本约为500亿美元（约合3070亿元人民币），使命是通过投资公路、水坝、通信网络和其他诸如此类的大规模项目，帮助亚洲更快地发展。