Japanese voters handed a landslide victory to the governing Liberal Democratic Party in parliamentary elections on Sunday, opening the possibility of dramatic changes in the long-paralyzed country, even as it returned Japan to effective one-party rule that seemed to thwart recent hopes for a more competitive democracy.
周日的议会选举中，日本选民送给执政的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)一个压倒性胜利，为这个经济长期瘫痪的国家打开了实现巨变的可能性，与此同时，这也让日本回到了实际上的一党专政，似乎扼杀了近来涌现的一种更具竞争性的民主的希望。
By securing control of both houses of Parliament for up to three years, the win offers Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, an outspoken nationalist who promises to revitalize Japan’s stagnant economy and strengthen its military, the chance to be the most transformative leader in a decade. It also offered an opportunity to end the nation’s series of short-lived and ineffective prime ministers.
首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)是一名出言无忌的民族主义者，曾承诺要重振日本停滞的经济并强化国家的军事实力。这次胜利确保了自民党对国会参众两院为期三年的控制，由此给予了安倍晋三成为10年之内最具改革能力的领导人的机会。这还提供了一个机会，可望终结这个国家由一系列短期在位的无效首相执掌的历史。
The victory comes at a time when many Japanese seem more open than ever to change, after years of failed efforts to end the economic slump, and as an intensifying territorial challenge by China that has nudged this long-pacifist nation toward seeking a more robust military.
这次胜利到来之际，许多日本人似乎比以往任何时候都更能接受改变，原因是多年结束经济萧条努力的失败，以及中国带来的不断增强的领土挑战，后者已经推动这个长期秉持和平主义的国家追求更加强大的军事力量。
And unlike some of Japan’s previous colorless leaders, Mr. Abe, 58, seems eager to become such an agent of change. He campaigned on promises to make fundamental, and possibly painful, changes in the economy. But his vows to stand up to China and rewrite Japan’s antiwar Constitution to allow the legal right to maintain a full-fledged military, rather than self-defense forces, raising fears he will go too far and further isolate Japan in the region.
与日本之前的一些缺乏个性的领导人不同，58岁的安倍晋三似乎渴望成为这样一个变革的化身。他在竞选中承诺对经济进行有可能带来痛苦的根本性改变。但他发誓要对抗中国，并改写日本的反战宪法，允许日本合法拥有完备的军事力量，而不是自卫队，这样的观点让人们担心他会走得太远，并让日本在该地区更加孤立。
A week before the election, he became the first prime minister to visit a tropical island near the group of uninhabited islets at the heart of the dispute with China, and had earlier raised eyebrows by riding in a tank and climbing into a fighter jet in front of cameras.
选举一周之前，他成了登上作为中日争端中心的那个无人群岛附近一个热带岛屿的第一名首相。此前他还曾在镜头前坐进一辆坦克，登上一架战斗机，引起了人们的惊讶。
“Abe has a pragmatic side and a strongly nationalistic side,” said Hiroshi Shiratori, a professor of political science at Hosei University in Tokyo. “This election could free him up to do more of the latter, which is what he really wants.”
“安倍晋三有着务实的一面，以及强烈民族主义的一面，”东京都法政大学(Hosei University in Tokyo)政治学教授白鸟浩(Hiroshi Shiratori)说。“这次选举让他可以在接下来的任期里做到更多事情，这正是他求之不得的。”
At the same time, it remains unclear how far the Japanese people may be willing to let Mr. Abe go. The Associated Press, citing numbers from Kyodo News Agency, said 52 percent of voters went to the polls, one of the lowest turnouts since the end of World War II. While Sunday’s results gave his ruling coalition a comfortable majority in the upper house, it fell short of the two-thirds that the Liberal Democrats and allies would need to revise the Constitution, something that has not happened since it was crafted by American occupiers after World War II.
与此同时，还不清楚日本民众愿意让安倍晋三走多远。美联社(Associated Press)援引日本共同社(Kyodo News Agency)的报道称，只有52%的选民参加了投票，这是自第二次世界大战结束以来最低的投票率。尽管周日的结果在上议院中给了他的执政联盟一个稳固的大多数席位，席位数却低于自民党及其盟友修改宪法所需的三分之二。当前的日本宪法是二战结束后由美国占领军起草的，迄今为止还没有修改过。
As vote counting continued into the early hours of the morning, officials said the Liberal Democrats had won 65 of the 121 seats being contested. When combined with the 11 seats secured by its coalition partner, a small Buddhist party, the Liberal Democrats had taken enough seats to gain a majority in the 242-seat chamber.
随着投票计数持续到凌晨，官员称自民党人赢得了121个竞逐议席中的65席。身为其联盟伙伴的一个小型佛教党派也赢得了11席，两者相加，自民党已经得到了242席中的大多数。
The largest opposition group, the Democratic Party, suffered a humbling setback, securing 17 seats from voters who still blame it for failing to deliver on promises of overhaul after an election four years ago that ousted the Liberal Democrats in what had seemed to herald the advent of a vibrant two-party democracy. Before the vote on Sunday, one weekly tabloid criticized the impending return of the Liberal Democrats’ effective monopoly as “a return to the ways of our ancestors.”
日本最大的反对党民主党(Democratic Party)遇上了令人气馁的挫折，只获得17个席位。选民们仍然责怪民主党，原因是四年前导致自民党下台的那场选举似乎预示着生机勃勃的两党民主即将到来，但是民主党却没有兑现其改革诺言。周日选举之前，一份周报批评道，自民党即将再次获得实质性的一家独大地位，这是“一种返祖现象”。
Speaking to reporters after the victory, Mr. Abe thanked voters for ending the so-called twisted Parliament, in which opposing parties had split control of the two houses since 2007, adding to Japan’s long political paralysis. But he admitted that he faced a challenge in convincing other lawmakers and also voters, who must approve any revision to the Constitution in a public referendum.
获胜后接受记者采访时，安倍晋三感谢选民终止了所谓的扭曲议会。自2007年开始，上下院一直由意见相左的党派分别控制，加重了日本长久以来的政治瘫痪。但是，他承认，他面对说服其他立法者及选民的挑战，因为通过公投修宪的做法必须得到他们的批准。
“There is still need to widen and deepen the debate on the Constitution,” Mr. Abe said. “Voters have given us this new period of political stability, so we have time to deepen the debate.”
安倍晋三说，“仍然需要扩宽并加深有关宪法的讨论。选民们给了我们一个政治稳定的新时期，所以我们有时间深化该辩论。”
He said he would also pursue an intermediate step of making the Constitution easier to revise by requiring a simple majority in Parliament instead of the current two-thirds. But making this change would require changing the Constitution, which means gathering enough votes.
他说，他也会努力推动一个中间步骤，使得修订宪法只需要议会的简单多数支持而非现在的三分之二多数，降低修订宪法的难度。但是，这种改变必须以修订宪法为前提，意味着要得到足够多的选票。
Still, analysts said the win, coming seven months after Mr. Abe’s party regained control of the lower house, had made overhaul of the Constitution feel like a real possibility for one of the first times since its adoption in 1947. In interviews outside polling stations, voters said that anxiety about China, and a hunger for leadership to restore Japan’s international standing, made them willing to at least try some of Mr. Abe’s ideas.
然而，一些分析人士称，在安倍晋三的党派重新控制下院七个月之后，此次胜利似乎真的提供了彻底修改宪法的可能，后者将是宪法自1947年施行以来的第一次。在投票站外的采访中，选民们说，他们忌惮中国，同时又渴望领导人恢复日本的世界地位，所以愿意试一试安倍晋三的至少是部分主张。
“I agree with Abe,” said Noriaki Hibi, a 51-year-old telecommunications worker in the Tokyo suburb of Sayama. “Given the current situation with China, I think we need military preparedness.”
51岁的日比泽明（Noriaki Hibi，音译）是东京郊区峡山市的一名电信工人。他说，“我赞成安倍晋三的主意。鉴于现在我们跟中国的关系，我认为我们需要军事准备。”
But analysts said that support could fall once discussion turned to the specifics of constitutional change, with polls showing a majority of voters still opposing changes to the antiwar provisions. They also said much of the support for Mr. Abe rested on the popularity of his economic stimulus policies, known as Abenomics, which have already succeeded in starting Japan’s $5 trillion economy on the road to a recovery.
但是，分析人士称，鉴于民调显示多数选民仍然反对修改反战条款，一旦讨论转向修宪的具体细节，这种支持就有可崩溃。他们还说，对于安倍晋三的支持，多数是因为他的经济刺激政策“安倍经济学”很受欢迎，这些政策已经使日本的5万亿美元经济走上了恢复之路。
“This is not unconditional support for Mr. Abe’s whole agenda,” said Jun Iio, a political scientist at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. “Public support could evaporate if the economy starts to sour.”
东京国家政策研究所(National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies)的政治学家饭尾淳(Jun Iio)说，“这并不是无条件支持安倍晋三的所有政策。一旦经济开始变糟糕，公众支持就有可能蒸发。”