The government of Shinzo Abe took its biggest step yet toward reviving its shuttered nuclear energy program on Tuesday, announcing details of a national plan that designates atomic power as an important long-term electricity source.
安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府周二宣布了一项国家计划的细节，该计划将原子能作为一个重要的长期电力来源，这是政府向恢复已经停止的核能项目迈出的迄今为止最大的一歩。
The new plan, which states Japan will push to restart reactors closed in the wake of the Fukushima disaster and suggests it might build new ones, overturns a promise made by a previous government to phase out the country’s atomic power plants. It also marks a major vote of confidence for nuclear energy at a time when its worldwide prospects have been clouded by the multiple meltdowns at Fukushima three years ago.
新计划推翻了前政府提出的要逐步淘汰日本原子能发电站的许诺，称日本将推动重启在福岛灾难发生后关停的那些核反应堆，并暗示可能要修建新反应堆。这也标志着对核能所投的一份主要信任票，目前世界上的核能前景依然笼罩在3年前福岛多个核电站泄漏事故的阴影下。
Japan’s minister for trade and industry, Toshimitsu Motegi, sought to play down the country’s policy reversal, telling reporters that Japan remained committed to “reducing its reliance on nuclear power.” But he also criticized the earlier commitment by Japan to go nuclear-free, first made by former Prime Minister Naoto Kan in the months after the 2011 accident, calling such a policy “irresponsible” for a resource-poor nation.
日本经济产业大臣茂木敏充(Toshimitsu Motegi)试图淡化日本的政策转变，他对记者说，日本依然致力于“减少国家对核能的依赖”。但是，他也批评了日本早先作出的要实现无核能化的承诺，称该承诺对一个缺乏资源的国家来说是“不负责任的”，无核能化政策最早由日本前首相菅直人(Naoto Kan)在2011年那场灾难发生的数月后提出。
Still, the government’s own energy plan remained vague, setting no specific targets for the role of nuclear energy in Japan. The country needs more time to figure out its “best mix” of energy sources, which would also include renewables like solar, wind and geothermal power, Mr. Motegi said.
然而，政府自己的能源计划仍比较含糊，没有给核能将在日本起的作用设置任何具体目标。茂木敏充说，日本需要更多时间来找到能源的“最佳组合”，其中还会包括太阳能、风能和地热能等可再生能源。
In leading Japan back to nuclear power, Mr. Abe’s government must walk a delicate line. Opinion polls show lingering public mistrust of nuclear safety and the government’s ability to oversee it.
安倍晋三的政府在带领日本回归核能的过程中，必须要谨慎行事。民意调查显示，公众对核能安全性以及政府对核能的监管能力仍有挥之不去的不信任。
To ease public jitters, an independent regulatory agency has been evaluating whether Japan’s 50 remaining reactors, which are all currently closed, can safely be brought back online. Even with a regulatory go-ahead, however, local opposition could still block or delay reactor restarts.
为了消除公众的不安，一家独立监管机构已在对日本现有的50个目前处于停止状态的反应堆进行评估，以确定它们是否能安全地恢复运行。但是，即使监管机构开了绿灯，当地民众的反对仍可能会阻止或推迟反应堆的重新启动。
Those fears were underscored Tuesday after another mishap at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, where a complicated cleanup has been undermined by continued radiation leaks and errors. The plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, said a damaged power cable had shut down a vital cooling system, forcing workers to suspend the removal of delicate spent nuclear fuel rods from a wrecked storage pool.
这些担心因福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant)周二再次出现故障而有所加强，该核电站复杂的清理工作一直受到不断发生的放射物泄漏以及各种失误的影响。该核电站的运营商东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power Company)称，一根电缆破裂，导致一个关键的冷却系统停止运行，迫使工人暂停了从一个被破坏的储料池中小心翼翼地取出乏燃料棒的工作。
The cooling system for the spent fuel pool at Reactor No. 4 failed for about four hours on Tuesday before power was restored, the operator said in an emailed announcement. Tokyo Electric Power said that the pool temperature was stable and that it had not detected a rise in radiation levels at the plant.
东京电力公司在一封用电子邮件发的声明中说，在电力恢复之前，4号反应堆所在的乏燃料池的冷却系统周二停了约4个小时。东京电力公司说，乏燃料池内的温度稳定，没有测到电站内放射水平的升高。
Despite the plant’s woes, there has been strong backing for a return to nuclear energy from Japan’s most influential business lobbies, which say the nation’s reactors must be brought back online to ease a crippling energy crunch. Before the 2011 accident, Japan was one of the world’s largest generators of nuclear power, relying on atomic energy for about 30 percent of its electricity needs. Since then, Japan has made up for the shortfall by increasing imports of oil and gas, which has caused energy prices to rise in Japan and weighed on its trade balance.
尽管该核电站问题不断，但恢复核能的建议受到日本最有影响力的商业游说团体的强烈支持，这些团体称日本必须恢复核反应堆的运行，以解决严重的能源短缺问题。在2011年核泄漏事故发生之前，日本是世界上最大的靠核能发电的国家之一，全国约30%的电力来自原子能。灾难发生之后，日本靠增加进口石油和天然气来弥补电力生产的短缺，这导致日本国内能源价格增加，也给其贸易平衡带来影响。
And nationally, organized opposition to nuclear power — which erupted in the months following the Fukushima accident into mass street rallies — has failed to materialize. In a closely watched gubernatorial race in Tokyo this month, a fractured field of antinuclear candidates appeared to split the opposition vote, helping to return a pro-nuclear, governing party candidate to office. That victory has given momentum to Mr. Abe’s push for a return to nuclear power.
从全国来看，虽然在福岛事故发生后的数月中，曾有反对者走上街头抗议核能，但没有形成有组织的反对力量。在本月的备受关注的东京都知事选举中，由于反对核能的几位候选人把反对派的选票分散了，让支持核能的现任候选人获胜。这次选举胜利让安倍晋三得到了推动重启核能的动力。
Mr. Kan, the former prime minister who led the country’s response to the Fukushima crisis, blasted the government’s nuclear turn.
前首相菅直人强烈抨击了现任政府恢复核能的政策，福岛核泄漏危机发生期间，他曾带领日本对危机作出响应。
“This government has not learned the lessons of Fukushima,” he said by telephone. “Japan was on the brink. But now, we want to go back to nuclear for economic reasons. But what happens to the economy if another disaster hits?”
他在电话采访中说，“这届政府没有从福岛灾难中汲取教训。日本那时处在一个紧要关头。但是现在，我们却出于经济原因要重返核能。如果再发生一场灾难，经济会怎样呢？”
Japan’s new energy plan calls nuclear power an important “baseload” electricity source — one that can produce energy at a constant rate and lower cost than alternatives like solar or wind power. Renewable energy proponents have argued that safety risks and the costs of handling nuclear waste ultimately make nuclear power less reliable and more expensive than other clean energy options.
日本的新能源计划把核能称为一个重要的“基本负载”电力来源，核能可以用于稳定和廉价的发电，成本比天阳能或风能等其它替代能源要低。可再生能源的支持者则称，安全风险和处理核能废料的成本最终会让核能的可靠性降低，也会让其成本高于其他清洁能源选择。
The energy plan also says that Japan will ultimately decide on the appropriate size of its nuclear program after taking into account its future energy needs, as well as the country’s commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have surged with the decline of nuclear power. The wording, Japanese news outlets noted, left the door open for Japan to add to its current nuclear fleet.
这项能源计划还称，在考虑了未来对能源的需求以及国家减少温室气体排放的责任之后，日本将最终决定其核能的规模应该有多大，日本的温室气体排放在减少核能使用之后激增。日本新闻媒体称，这样的行文为日本增加现有核能设施保留了可能性。