TOKYO — In the first reported death in Japan linked to the Pokémon Go craze, a man who was playing the popular smartphone game while driving struck two pedestrians, killing one, the police said on Thursday.
东京——当地警方周四表示，一名在驾驶车辆时玩《精灵宝可梦Go》智能手机游戏的男子，撞倒两名行人，致其中一人死亡，这是日本首次报道的与《精灵宝可梦Go》热潮有关的死亡事故。
Nintendo and Niantic, the companies behind the game, expressed condolences to the families of the victims.
推出这款游戏的任天堂(Nintendo)和尼安蒂克(Niantic)公司向遇难者家属表示了哀悼。
Pokémon Go uses what is known as augmented reality technology, which puts images of digital monsters in real-world environments for players to hunt with a flick of their fingers. Distracted Pokémon Go players around the world have been involved in numerous mishaps, including less serious car crashes and falls.
《精灵宝可梦Go》使用所谓的增强现实技术，把数码怪物的图像放在现实世界环境中，玩家可在手机屏幕上用轻拂手指来捕获精灵。世界各地的被《精灵宝可梦Go》分心的玩家们已经出了不少小事故，包括不太严重的车祸和跌倒。
In the United States, several people were reported to have been attacked or robbed while playing the game, though the connection between the violence and the fact that the victims were using Pokémon Go at the time has not always been clear.
据报道，美国已经有几个人在玩游戏时被袭或遭抢，虽然暴力行为与受害者在事发时玩《精灵宝可梦Go》这一事实之间的联系并不总是很清楚。
The death in Japan occurred Tuesday evening in rural Tokushima Prefecture, on the island of Shikoku in the south of the country.
日本的这次死亡事故于周二晚发生在农业的德岛县，该县位于日本南部的四国岛。
The police in Tokushima said they had arrested the driver, Keiji Go’o, a 39-year-old farmer who they said was behind the wheel of a small cargo van when he struck the two pedestrians — Sachiko Nakanishi, 72, and Kayoko Ikawa, 60 — at an intersection.
德岛县警方说，他们已经将司机逮捕，他是39岁的农民吾大敬二(Keiji Go'o)，警方说，他开着小货运车在一个交叉路口撞倒了两名行人：72岁的中西幸子(Sachiko Nakanishi)和60岁的伊川佳代子(Kayoko Ikawa)。
Ms. Nakanishi died of a broken neck, the police said; the extent of Ms. Ikawa’s injuries was not disclosed. Mr. Go’o remained in custody on Thursday, but the police said he had admitted being distracted by the game when the accident occurred. Photographs and video taken by the Japanese news media showed what they said was the van driven by Mr. Go’o, with a smashed windshield.
警方说，中西幸子因脖子被撞断而死亡；警方没有透露伊川佳代子的受伤程度。吾大敬二周四仍被拘留，警方表示，他已承认事故发生时，他因玩游戏而分了心。日本新闻媒体拍摄的照片和视频显示了他们称之为吾大敬二的面包车的车辆，车的挡风玻璃被撞碎。
Niantic, a spinoff of Google that is responsible for the design of Pokémon Go, has added in-game warnings against playing while driving or in other potentially dangerous situations, and a spokesman said the company prioritized safety. Nintendo, which is based in Japan and owns part of the company that manages the Pokémon franchise, said it was working to “create an environment where people can play the game safely.”
从谷歌(Google)分立出来的尼安蒂克是《精灵宝可梦Go》的设计者，公司在游戏中增添了对驾车玩游戏、或其他潜在危险的警告，公司一位发言人表示，公司把安全放在首要地位。总部在日本的任天堂拥有一家管理精灵宝可梦专营权的公司的部分股权，任天堂说，它在致力于“创造一个让大家可以安全地玩游戏的环境”。
More than 10 million people in Japan downloaded the game on the day it debuted here last month, after a similarly huge reception in the United States and elsewhere. Distraction on the roads is not the only potential danger; some train stations have begun broadcasting warnings against playing while walking along crowded platforms.
这款游戏上个月在这里首次推出后，日本已有逾1000万人下载了软件，那之前，美国和其他地区对游戏的欢迎程度也同样庞大。在路上分心不是这个游戏的唯一潜在危险；有的火车站已经开始播放警告，提醒人们不要在拥挤的站台上边走边玩。