TOKYO — A study once hailed as a breakthrough in creating stem cells contained fabricated and doctored images that cast doubt on its findings, a Japanese research institute concluded on Tuesday in a blistering investigation into a case that has become a major embarrassment for the country’s scientific community.
东京——一家日本研究机构在周二得出结论，一项曾被誉为突破性成就的干细胞制造研究使用了伪造和篡改过的图片，这让研究成果蒙上疑云。该机构所进行的调查，正在成为令日本科学界蒙羞的重大事件。
The report, by the government-supported Riken institute, singled out the study’s lead author, Haruko Obokata, a stem cell biologist at the institute’s Center for Developmental Biology in Kobe, saying she had altered or misrepresented the illustrations in her research papers. Just a few weeks ago, Ms. Obokata, 30, had been lionized in local news media as a young scientific prodigy who could be considered for a Nobel Prize.
由政府资助的理化研究所(Riken)特别点出了研究的第一作者小保方晴子(Haruko Obokata)的名字，称这位在神户理研所发育生物学中心工作的干细胞生物学家改动或歪曲了研究论文中的图片。仅在几周前，现年30岁的小保方还被当地新闻媒体奉为年轻有为的科学奇才，有望竞逐诺贝尔奖。
Riken, one the biggest and most prestigious scientific institutes in Japan, assembled a panel of experts to review a list of irregularities in two papers that a group led by Ms. Obokata published in January in the journal Nature. On Tuesday, the panel concluded that the papers contained serious flaws and should be retracted.
作为日本最大、最受推崇的科学研究所，理研所召集了一个专家组，对小保方领导的一个团队于1月发表在《自然》(Nature)期刊上的两篇论文进行调查，审核其中的一系列不寻常之处。周二，专家组得出结论，两篇论文存在严重错漏，应予撤回。
In a statement issued through her lawyer, Ms. Obokata refused to retract the research. She disputed the institute’s conclusion that she had intentionally falsified data, saying that she would appeal its findings.
在通过律师发表的一份声明中，小保方拒绝撤回论文。对于研究所认为她有意篡改数据的结论，她表示了质疑，并称她会就该裁决进行申诉。
“I absolutely cannot accept the conclusion that research was fabricated and doctored,” the statement said.
“对于论文存在伪造和篡改的结论，我完全无法接受，”声明说。
The panel said three other co-authors did not participate in the falsification of the images. But it did fault them for failing to notice irregularities.
专家组称论文的另外三名共同作者没有参与图片的伪造。但仍指出他们的错误在于未能发现论文的异常之处。
Ms. Obokata grabbed national headlines by leading a team of scientists who said they had succeeded in finding what appeared to be a remarkably simple way of creating stem cells from regular mouse cells, by immersing them in an acidic bath. She called the newly created cells STAP cells, for stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency, a term that refers to the ability of stem cells to turn into any other type of cell.
由小保方领导一个科学家团队宣称，通过将普通小鼠细胞浸泡在酸性溶液中，成功地发现了一种看似格外简单的干细胞制造方法。她称这种新制备出的细胞为STAP细胞，即“刺激触发的多能性获得”细胞，多能性指的是干细胞转变为其他任何类型细胞的能力。
In embryos, that ability allows stem cells to grow into anything from muscle to brain cells. Researchers hope to use it in future medical treatments that could allow them to regenerate damaged nerves or other tissues or even grow entire organs.
在胚胎中，这种能力让干细胞可以发育成为从肌肉到脑细胞的任何细胞。研究人员希望，在未来的医疗中能利用它来再造受损神经或其他组织，甚至培育完整的器官。
While Riken said on Tuesday that the papers contained multiple problems, it shied away from saying whether the group had actually succeeded in creating STAP cells, declaring that more research was needed. Such cells have been highly controversial among scientists, with some saying that they could not reproduce Ms. Obokata’s research results.
理研所在周二说论文存在多处问题，但并没有提到这个研究团队是否真的成功制造出了STAP细胞，只是称还需要进一步的研究。这类细胞在科学家中间是个极具争议的话题，有人说他们无法重现小保方的研究结果。
Riken opened its investigation after doubts about the group’s research began surfacing in the scientific community soon after the publication of the papers. The inquiry’s focus included images of what were supposed to be two different placentas that proved to be identical, images that looked as if they had been spliced together, and photos of cells that appeared to have been lifted out of Ms. Obokata’s 2011 doctoral dissertation describing an entirely different experiment.
两篇论文发表后，科学界很快对该研究提出了质疑，理研所正是因此才展开调查。经证实，两张本应是不同的胎盘的图片其实来自同一个胎盘，这成了调查的重点之一，图片看似被拼接在一起，而细胞照片则是从小保方2011年的博士论文中取来的，那篇论文阐述的是一个截然不同的实验。