TOKYO — The lower house of Japan’s Parliament passed legislation Thursday giving the country’s military limited powers to fight in foreign conflicts, something it has not done since World War II.
东京——日本国会众议院周四通过法案，赋予日本军队在国外冲突中有限的战斗权力，这是二次世界大战以来日本从未做过的事情。
The lawmakers acted despite broad public opposition to the legislation, which has triggered Japan’s largest public protests since the aftermath of the Fukushima nuclear accident four years ago.
尽管公众普遍反对这一法案，但立法者仍通过了该法，法案曾引起自从四年前福岛核事故发生后的日本最大的公共抗议活动。
Opposition lawmakers walked out of Parliament in a symbolic protest against the package of 11 security-related laws, which was championed by the conservative prime minister, Shinzo Abe, and supported by the United States, Japan’s longtime ally and protector. Demonstrators chanted noisily Thursday outside Parliament, despite a gathering typhoon.
反对派议员以退出会场的形式，对这一包括11条有关安全法律的议案作出象征性抗议，法律议案得到了保守党首相安倍晋三、以及日本的长期盟友和保护者美国的支持。尽管台风正在袭来，示威者仍呆在国会外高呼抗议口号。
The laws represent a controversial break from the strictly defensive stance maintained by Japan in the decades since the war, under which it would fight only if directly attacked. Critics, including a majority of Japanese constitutional specialists, say the new laws violate the country’s postwar charter, which renounces war.
这些法律代表了与日本战后几十年中所坚持的绝对防御立场的有争议的偏离，绝对防御意味着只是在受到直接攻击时，日本才会战斗。法案的批评者包括大部分日本宪法专家，他们说，新法律违反了日本的战后宪法，宪法中有放弃战争的文字。
Mr. Abe has spent considerable political capital pushing the bills through. Voters oppose them by a ratio of roughly two to one, according to numerous surveys, and the government’s once-high support ratings fell to around 40 percent in several polls taken this month.
安倍晋三在努力让法案获得通过上花费了大量的政治资本。多次民意调查都显示，选民以约二对一的比率反对该法案，而且，在本月进行的几次民意调查中，政府曾经一度很高的支持率下降到了40％左右。
Mr. Abe has presented the laws as an unavoidable response to new threats facing Japan, in particular the growing military power of China. He seized on the murder of two Japanese hostages by the Islamic State militant group in January as an example of why Japan needs to loosen restrictions on its military, suggesting that the military might have rescued them had it been free to act.
安倍晋三把法案描述为日本对所面临的新威胁、尤其是中国不断增长的军事力量的不可避免的响应。他以两名日本人质在一月份被伊斯兰国(Islamic State )武装组织杀害为例，解释日本为什么需要放宽对自己军队的限制，暗示如果军队有采取行动的自由的话，两名人质也许可以获救。
“These laws are absolutely necessary because the security situation surrounding Japan is growing more severe,” he said after the vote Thursday.
“日本周边的安全形势变得越来越严峻，因此这些法律是绝对必要的，”他在周四的投票后表示。
With opposition lawmakers boycotting the vote, the bills passed with the support of the Liberal Democratic Party, led by Mr. Abe, and its smaller coalition partner, Komeito, which control a majority of seats in the legislature’s lower house, the House of Representatives. They must still be approved by the upper chamber, which the coalition also controls. Even in the unlikely event that the package is rejected in the upper house, the lower house can override that decision.
由于反对派议员抵制投票，法案是在安倍晋三领导的自民党的支持下通过的，投了赞成票的还有自民党的小伙伴公明党，这两党的联盟控制了立法机构下院、也就是众议院中的多数席位。法案还需要在参议院获得通过，该联盟也控制着参议院的多数席位。即使发生了参议院否决法案的极不可能事件，下院也可以推翻参议院的决定。
The upper house is scheduled to debate the legislation for 60 days, keeping the issue in the public eye and potentially fueling more protests. “There is plenty of time for this newfound appetite for opposition to the Abe government to grow,” Sheila A. Smith, senior fellow for Japan studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, said in an online post.
参议院按计划将对法案进行为期60天的讨论，这将让公众的视线聚焦在这个问题上，有可能助长更多的抗议活动。“有足够的时间让这个新萌生的反对安倍政府的欲望增长，”在华盛顿外交关系委员会从事日本问题研究的高级研究员希拉·A·史密斯(Sheila A. Smith)在网上发帖写道。
In an address to a joint meeting of the United States Congress in April, Mr. Abe pledged that he would enact the legislation to strengthen Japan’s already close ties to the United States. But “a deeply divided Japanese public over alliance cooperation is not the outcome U.S. policy makers hoped for,” Ms. Smith wrote.
在四月份对美国国会两院联席会议上发表讲话时，安倍晋三曾承诺，他将通过该立法，来加强日本与美国已经密切的关系。但是，“日本公众意见在联盟合作问题上四分五裂并不是美国政策制定者所希望的结果，”史密斯写道。
The new laws allow the Japanese military, known as the Self-Defense Forces, to cooperate more closely with United States forces, by providing logistical support and, in certain circumstances, armed backup in international conflicts. They complement guidelines in a bilateral agreement governing how Japanese and United States forces work together, which was signed by the two nations this year.
新法律将允许被称为自卫队的日本军队更紧密地与美国军队合作，以提供后勤支持的方式，并在某些情况下，以在国际冲突中提供武装支持的方式。新法律对有关日本与美国军事力量如何合作的双边协议中的指导方针做了补充，两国已在今年签署了该协议。
Mr. Abe has failed to dispel concerns of the Japanese public that looser restrictions on the military could embroil Japan in damaging and unnecessary wars. The United States-led war in Iraq is often cited by critics as a cautionary example, although Mr. Abe and his supporters say the many caveats contained in the new laws would prevent Japan from fighting in such a conflict.
安倍晋三未能打消日本民众所担心的问题，那就是，对军队不那么严格的限制可能会让日本卷入破坏性的、不必要的战争。美国领导的伊拉克战争经常被批评者引以为例，作为警示，但安倍晋三及其支持者说，新法律所包含的许多先决条件会阻止日本卷入这类冲突。
Japan, the laws say, could only act with force where “the lives and survival of the Japanese nation” were under threat. Mr. Abe’s opponents counter that the criteria are vague.
法律说，只有在“国家受到生命和生存”威胁时，日本才能采用武力行动。安倍晋三的对手反驳说，这些条件很模糊。
The new laws are likely to face challenges in the courts, but to what effect is uncertain. The Constitution, written by Japan’s American occupiers after the war, states that “the Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation and the threat or use of force as means of settling international disputes.” In multiple surveys of constitutional scholars, more than 90 percent have said the new laws violate the charter.
新法律可能会在法庭面临挑战，但会有什么程度的挑战目前尚不明确。由战后占领日本的美国人起草的宪法宣布，“日本人民永远放弃以国权发动的战争、武力威胁或武力行使作为解决国际争端的手段。”在对宪法学者进行的多次调查中，有90％以上都表示，新法律违反宪法。
Japanese judges, however, have in the past been mostly unwilling to overrule the government on matters of national security.
但是，日本的法官以前在涉及国家安全问题上，大多不愿意推翻政府的决定。
“It is a huge mistake to set aside a constitutional interpretation built up by governments for 70 years without sufficient public understanding and debate,” Katsuya Okada, head of the largest opposition party, the Democratic Party of Japan, said before the opposition walkout.
“在没有足够的公众理解和辩论的情况下，放弃各届政府70年来所建立的一条宪法解释，是一个巨大的错误，”最大的反对党日本民主党负责人冈田克也(Katsuya Okada)在反对派退出会场前说。
Mr. Abe has long argued that the Constitution should be amended to remove its restrictive antiwar provisions, but changing the charter would require a national referendum that he would probably lose. For now, at least, a contested reinterpretation of the Constitution appears to be the most he can hope for.
安倍晋三曾一直认为，应该修订宪法，取消其中反战的限制性规定，但修改宪法需要全民公投，而他可能在公投中失败。至少就目前而言，对宪法的有争议的重新解释，似乎是他能指望得到的最大收获。
On Wednesday night, large crowds gathered outside Parliament after the bills were approved by a committee in an emotional and chaotic session. Opposition lawmakers held up signs saying “No to Abe politics” and tore notes from the committee chairman’s hand as he closed debate.
周三夜晚，在一个充满情绪和混乱的会场上法案得到一个委员会批准之后，大批民众聚集在国会外。反对派议员举着“对安倍晋三政治说不”的标语牌，还在该委员会主席宣布辩论结束时，将其手中的笔记夺下。
The crowd on Wednesday was estimated by protest organizers around 100,000, which would make it the largest antigovernment demonstration in Japan since protests in 2012 against the proposed restart of nuclear power plants, a year after the nuclear accident in Fukushima. The police had no official estimate of the crowd’s size.
据抗议活动组织者估计，周三的人群在10万左右，使其成为2012年以来日本发生的最大的反政府示威活动，2012年曾发生了抗议福岛核事故一年后重新启动核电站的抗议活动。警方对抗议人群的规模没有给出官方估计。
A small number of protesters remained on Thursday under intermittent downpours from Typhoon Nangka, a huge storm bearing down on the western part of the country. They shouted “Shame on the Abe government” and “Don’t send young people to war.”
一小群抗议者周四冒着间歇大雨仍留在现场，大雨是在日本西部登陆的巨大风暴台风“浪卡”(Tangka)带来的。他们高护着口号：“安倍政府无耻”、“不要把年轻人送上战场”。