OTSUCHI, Japan — The spot where the town’s center once stood is now a dusty construction site filled with diggers and dump trucks toiling amid huge, man-made mesas of earth and gravel. The work is part of an $850 million project to elevate the land by seven feet and shield it behind a towering 48-foot wall.
日本大槌——町中心曾经所在的位置如今是一片尘土飞扬的建筑工地，上面满是挖掘机和自卸卡车，在这座硕大的人造土石山丘上辛勤劳作。这是一项造价8.5亿美元（约合53亿元人民币）的项目的一部分，目标是将地基抬高7英尺（约合2.1米），并把它掩护在一座高达48英尺的城墙背后。
Four years after a colossal tsunami swept away most of this remote fishing community on Japan’s mountainous northeastern coast, Otsuchi is starting to rebuild.
四年前，一场巨大的海啸将日本东北海岸山区这座偏远渔业小镇的大部分东西卷走。到了今天，大槌终于开始重建。
However, the wait is far from over for thousands of the town’s survivors, many of them still living in temporary apartments after being left homeless by the waves. Otsuchi was so severely crippled by the calamity — 1,284 people died here, including the mayor and many town hall employees, firefighters and police officers — that the town struggled for years even to put together a recovery plan. Reconstruction began only last year and will not be finished until at least 2019, the new mayor says.
然而，对于这里的上万名幸存者而言，等待还远未结束。因海啸而丧失家园的许多幸存者，目前仍然居住在临时搭建的寓所里。这场灾难令大槌遭遇重创，死亡人数达1284人，其中包括町长、町公所的不少员工、消防员和警察。因此，就连复原计划本身，大槌也挣扎了好几年时间才得以敲定。重建工作去年刚正式开始，而新町长表示，至少要到2019年才能完成。
Similar stories could be heard across Japan’s tsunami-struck northeast as the nation held prayer ceremonies this week to observe the anniversary of the magnitude 9.0 earthquake and resulting tsunami on March 11, 2011, that left 18,490 people dead or missing. Almost 250,000 people lost their homes in the calamity, and 87,000 still live in cramped, prefabricated housing that was originally meant to last for just two or three years.
在日本东北部遭到海啸袭击的地方，到处可以听到类似的情况。本周，日本举行了祈祷仪式来纪念2011年3月11日的9.0级地震及由此导致的海啸。这场灾难导致1万8490人死亡或失踪，近25万人流离失所，其中8.7万人现今仍然居住在原本计划仅维持两三年的拥挤预制板房里。
It is not clear when, if ever, they will move back. In Fukushima, where the tsunami caused meltdowns that destroyed the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, some areas were so contaminated with radiation that they may not be habitable for decades.
就算能搬回去，也不清楚究竟会是什么时候。在福岛县，也就是海啸导致的熔融摧毁了福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)的地方，一些区域遭到极为严重的辐射污染，可能几十年内都不再适合人类居住。
In small coastal communities farther north like Otsuchi, far enough away to escape most of the nuclear fallout, many survivors have simply given up and moved elsewhere, accelerating the depopulation of rural areas in this rapidly graying nation. Those who want to stay worry they could face additional waits as memories of the tragedy fade in the rest of Japan, where attention is now turning to events like the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo.
在大槌这样的更北面的小型海滨村镇，虽然距离保障人们免受核危机的大部分影响，但许多幸存者干脆放弃了家园搬到别处，从而加剧了这个快速老龄化国家里不少乡村地区的人口流失问题。那些想要留下的人则担心，随着日本其他地方对这场灾难的记忆逐渐淡去，将注意力转向2020年东京奥运会之类的事情上，他们可能需要等待更长的时间。
“Everyone seems to think that life has gone back to normal here, but we are still very much a disaster zone,” said Hiromi Kawaguchi, 66, a retired town employee who lives alone in a tiny two-room apartment in refugee housing after losing his wife, mother and 4-year-old grandson, Shoya, to the tsunami.
“似乎大家都以为这里的生活已经恢复常态了，其实我们还基本是个灾区，”66岁的退休町工作人员河口广见（Hiromi Kawaguchi，音）说。他在海啸中失去了妻子和四岁的孙子祥也（Shoya，音），如今独自居住在庇护所的一套小小的两居室公寓里。
“Does this mean more delays if the nation has lost its sense of urgency about us?” he said. “Even big construction companies are starting to leave to get a piece of the Olympics.”
“如果国民丧失了对我们的紧迫感，是不是意味着更多的拖延？”他问道。“就连大建筑公司都开始离开，想去奥运项目里分一杯羹。”
To help in the rebuilding, the central government in Tokyo pledged 25 trillion yen, or about $206 billion, to pay for reconstruction and radiation cleanup as part of a “concentrated recovery program” that was supposed to end in 2016. However, local governments have been so overwhelmed by the task of rebuilding that many have fallen behind schedule and proved unable to even spend all the recovery money made available to them.
为了援助重建工作，东京的中央政府承诺投入25万亿日元（约合1.5万亿元人民币）来支持重建和辐射清污工作，作为定于2016年完成的“集中恢复计划”的一部分。然而，重建任务之重令地方政府应接不暇，许多地方的进度落后于时间表，而且就连提供给他们的重建款其实都无法花完。
Otsuchi is a case in point. Once a quiet community of 15,200 residents on a picturesque bay between rugged mountains and the Pacific Ocean, Otsuchi was struck by seething 50-foot waves that destroyed more than 80 percent of the town’s structures, including the town hall, fire department, police station and main hospital. The tsunami killed the mayor and almost 50 town employees, leaving Otsuchi leaderless in the months after the disaster.
大槌就是一个典型例子。这里曾经是个有着1万5200名居民的宁静小镇，坐落在一座风景如画的海湾，背靠嶙峋的山岭，面朝太平洋。然而，它在2011年遭遇了50英尺高的奔腾巨浪，导致町里80%的建筑被毁，包括町公所、消防站、警察局和主要的医院。海啸令町长及近50名町政府的工作人员丧命，使得大槌在灾难过后的很长时间内群龙无首。
“The town was paralyzed by the chaos,” Otsuchi’s new mayor, Yutaka Ikarigawa, said in an interview in the temporary town hall, which occupies a former elementary school that was damaged in the disaster.
“那时候町里一片混乱，陷入了瘫痪，”大槌的新町长碇川丰(Yutaka Ikarigawa)在临时公所接受采访时表示。这座公所占据的地方之前是一所小学，但在海啸中遭到了损毁。
Survivors said it took a year to erect temporary housing and supply all the units with electricity and water; the cleanup of a half-million tons of crumpled cars, shattered wooden beams and other debris was completed only last year.
幸存者称，建起临时住所并给所有单元通上水电花了一年时间；而清理包括报废汽车和断裂木梁在内的50万吨废物的工作直到去年才完成。
Survivors also struggled to reach a consensus on what they wanted their reconstructed town to look like. Some favored the huge, expensive wave walls that officials in Tokyo urged them to build. Others pointed out that such walls had failed to save residents in other towns. They argued that the safest thing to do would be completely rebuild the town on higher ground.
针对大槌重建后应当呈现怎样的面貌，幸存者还难以达成一致，作出决定。一些人赞成采纳东京官员的建议，修建造价昂贵的巨大防浪墙。另外一些人则指出，这样的护墙并未拯救其他市镇的居民的生命。他们认为，最安全的做法是在更高的地基上全盘重建大槌。
In the end, the town settled on a compromise in which commercial structures like factories and stores would be rebuilt on the site of the old town center, which would be elevated and protected behind a wall as wide as half a football field at its base. Most residents will move to new housing at higher elevations, including on flattened hilltops.
最后，町里决定采用妥协的办法，工厂和店铺等商业建筑将在老的町中心所在地重建，而这片地方会抬高地基，前面建起一道基底有半座橄榄球场厚的防浪墙。多数居民将迁居建在更高地基上的新房屋，包括坐落在平坦山顶上的住所。
Today, the neighborhoods that had been left in ruins are being covered by thick layers of fresh soil. The three-story concrete town hall, its insides gutted by the tsunami that almost completely submerged it, is the only building left standing in the town center. Buddhist statues have been placed in front, turning it into a memorial for those who perished inside.
现在，沦为废墟的街区铺上了厚厚的新土。三层楼的混凝土町公所是町中心唯一挺立的建筑，不过它的内部被几乎完全淹没它的海啸毁得面目全非。公所前面放置了一些佛像，使它成为了悼念公所内殒命者的场所。
But the start of construction has brought new delays. Otsuchi has struggled to find construction companies to even bid on its contracts, as a boom in post-tsunami rebuilding has created a shortage of contractors. That shortage has been made worse by Olympic-related construction projects in Tokyo, said the mayor, Mr. Ikarigawa.
不过，建设工作一开始就带来了新的延迟。就连找建筑公司来竞标，大槌都遭遇了困难，因为海啸后的重建热潮造成了承包商的稀缺。碇川町长表示，由于有东京奥运相关的建筑项目，这种短缺变得更为严重。
As a result, Otsuchi has been unable to spend all the money allocated to its recovery by the central government. In 2012, Otsuchi was able to spend just 28 percent of the $178 million made available to it. Last year, with a new reconstruction plan finally in hand, it did better, spending 62 percent, Mr. Ikarigawa said.
结果，大槌一直未能花光中央政府下拨的重建款。2012年，大槌有1.78亿美元的拨款预算，却只花出去了区区28%。去年，由于新的重建计划终于出炉，情况倒是有所好转。碇川町长称，用掉了62%的拨款。
“It doesn’t make sense to have to return unused recovery funds when so much of the town still needs rebuilding,” said Keiichi Sasaki, 53, the head of a neighborhood committee in Otsuchi whose home was washed away by the tsunami.
“把没有使用的重建款还回去是不合情理的，町里还有那么多地方需要重建，”53岁的佐佐木敬一（Keiichi Sasaki，音）说。他在大槌的一家社区委员会担任负责人，家里的房子当初被海啸冲走了。
Until their homes can be rebuilt, about 3,700 residents live in temporary housing, waiting. Thousands of others have already given up: The town hall estimates that Otsuchi has lost at least a quarter of its population to the disaster and the exodus that followed.
目前，这里有大约3700名居民在临时住所生活，等待重建家园。还有数千人干脆放弃：町公所估计，那场灾难及随后的出走潮使得大槌失去了至少四分之一的人口。
Mr. Kawaguchi, the retired town employee, said the number who left may be even higher. He said many lost hope after the construction boom started to drive up the cost of labor and building materials, making it more than twice as expensive to rebuild now as just two years ago.
町里的退休工作人员河口广见表示，离开的人不止这个数。他说，建筑热潮开始推高劳动力和建材成本，使得重建的花销在短短两年内翻了一倍，这让很多人丧失了信心。