TOKYO — On July 1, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe gutted Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution, the so-called “peace clause” that has historically prohibited belligerence. Using a cabinet decision to reinterpret the article, and so bypassing Parliament and the requirement for a referendum on a change to the Constitution, Mr. Abe thus empowered Japan’s military, known as the Self-Defense Forces, to take action against other countries.
东京——7月1日，安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)首相掏空了曾经禁止发动战争的日本宪法第九条，即所谓的“和平条款”。他绕过了国会和修宪前必须举行的公投，通过内阁决定重新诠释了这个条款，进而赋予了日本军方（即自卫队）对其他国家采取行动的权利。
Media outlets opposed the move, hundreds of thousands of citizens protested outside the prime minister’s official residence and a man set himself on fire in front of Shinjuku Station — all to no effect. Mr. Abe decided he could afford to go ahead. And it appears he was right: Postwar Japan’s pacifist spirit is finally dying.
媒体对安倍的这一举动提出了反对，成百上千的民众在首相官邸外举行了抗议，一名男子在新宿站前自焚，但都没有产生任何效果。安倍认定，自己继续这么做没问题。他似乎是对的：战后日本的和平主义精神终于开始渐渐消亡。
Polls have shown that a majority of Japan’s citizens oppose the doctrine of “collective self-defense,” as the right to exercise force is known. Yet those who support Mr. Abe’s cabinet continue to outnumber those who don’t. An Asahi Shimbun poll conducted in late June found 56 percent against collective self-defense and only 28 percent in favor, with 43 percent supporting the Abe cabinet and 33 percent opposed.
调查显示，多数日本人反对“集体自卫”原则，即动用武力的权利。然而，安倍内阁的支持者还是多于反对者。《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)6月末进行的调查发现，56%的受访者反对集体自卫权，只有28%的人表示赞成，与此同时，安倍内阁的支持率为43%，反对率为33%。
This odd concurrence of overall approval for the Abe administration with disapproval for specific policies has been the rule in past months, during which Mr. Abe has let his nationalism run unbridled. Late last year, he rammed through a “Special Secret Protection Bill” that guards state interests while violating freedoms of the press and expression. He also became the first sitting prime minister since 2006 to visit the controversial Yasukuni Shrine, said to house the spirits of Japan’s war dead, including Class-A war criminals.
民众整体上对安倍政府表示支持，但反对其具体政策，这种怪现象是过去几个月的常态。在这几个月里，安倍将自己的民族主义思想表露无疑。去年年末，他强行通过了《特定秘密保护法案》(Special Secrets Protection Bill)，以破坏出版和言论自由为代价，来保护国家利益。他还是2006年以来首位参拜靖国神社的在任首相。饱受争议的靖国神社据说供奉着日本战争中的死难者，包括一些甲级战犯。
In each case, the media focused on popular opposition to these actions, emphasizing dips in Mr. Abe’s popularity. But the crucial point is that even with these dips, the prime minister has consistently drawn more support than opposition. If this had not been the case, he would almost certainly have decided not to rush ahead with his overbearing plan to alter the interpretation of Article 9.
上述事件发生时，媒体都集中报道了公众对这些做法的反对，强调了安倍的支持率有所下滑。但关键在于，即使有所下滑，这位首相的支持者仍然多于反对者。如果事实并非如此，他几乎肯定不会去匆忙推进这个一意孤行的计划，去重新诠释宪法第九条。
The Liberal Democratic Party, which Mr. Abe leads, has promoted a nationalist agenda ever since its establishment in 1955. For decades, L.D.P. cabinets were itching to revise the “peace constitution” imposed by the United States following Japan’s defeat in World War II.
自1955年成立以来，安倍领导的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)就一直推行民族主义议程。几十年来，自民党领导的内阁都十分渴望修改在日本二战战败后美国强加给日本的“和平宪法”。
L.D.P. politicians also looked for ways to instill nationalist feelings in Japan’s schoolchildren — and, to some degree, they were successful in using the government’s system for approving textbooks to accomplish that goal. Until now, though, the party failed to make much headway on the constitutional issue.
自民党的政治人物还寻找各种方式，向日本的中小学生灌输民族主义情感。在某种程度上，通过利用政府批准教材内容的制度，他们成功地实现了这一目标。但迄今为止，自民党一直未能在宪法问题上取得太大进展。
Popular distrust of the state ran so deep and an abhorrence of memories of wartime militarism was so strong that Article 9 became a third rail in Japanese politics. All these years, a widespread pacifism kept the L.D.P. in check.
公众对政府的不信任如此严重，对战时军国主义记忆的憎恶又是如此强烈，以至于宪法第九条成为了日本政治的争议话题。这些年来，深入人心的和平主义让自民党不敢轻举妄动。
Seven decades after the 1945 defeat, anti-militarist sentiment in Japan is running out of steam. It is estimated that as many as three million Japanese, soldiers and civilians, died in World War II, or 4 percent of the population. Compare this with the national trauma of the 620,000 who died in the American Civil War — close to 2 percent of the population — and you get a sense of how deeply Japan’s survivors must have been affected.
但在1945年日本战败的70年后，反军国主义的情绪出现了动摇。据估计，包括军人和平民在内，有多达300万日本人在二战中死亡，相当于日本当时人口的4%。想想美国内战给国家留下的创伤——62万人死亡，将近人口的2%——你就知道日本的幸存者受到了多么深刻的影响。
But now, those survivors are themselves dying, and with them, their memories of the war dead. Uninhibited by any direct experience of the war, younger people find it all too easy to glorify Japan’s martial tradition. Since it opened late last year, more than seven million people have been to see the movie adaptation of “The Eternal Zero,” a best-selling sentimental novel about a group of kamikaze pilots, making it one of the top 10 most successful Japanese films of all time.
但是如今，这些幸存者正在相继离世，带走了对阵亡将士的记忆。年轻人没有任何直接的战争经历，他们发现，美化日本的武力传统是一件很容易的事情。自从去年年末上映以来，超过700万人观看了根据畅销小说《永远的0》(The Eternal Zero)改编的电影。这部伤感的作品讲述的是一组神风队队员的故事。该片也因此成为史上最成功的10部日本电影之一。
This troublesome development becomes downright frightening when one considers relations among East Asian nations today. In 1980, the South Korean and Chinese economies were just starting to grow, while Japan had climbed to an entirely different level: Japan’s gross domestic product was $1.1 trillion; South Korea’s was $64.4 billion; and China’s was $303.4 billion. Now, Japan’s G.D.P. stands at $4.7 trillion; South Korea’s is at $1.7 trillion; and China’s has reached $13.4 trillion.
如果考虑到目前东亚各国之间的关系，安倍那令人不安的举动就只能用恐怖来形容了。1980年，韩国和中国的经济刚刚起步，而日本已经达到了一个完全不同的高度：日本当时的GDP是1.1万亿美元；韩国为644亿美元；而中国为3034亿美元。如今，日本的GDP为4.7万亿美元；韩国为1.7万亿美元；而中国已经达到13.4万亿美元。
Decades of rapid growth in Korea and China have transformed the three countries into more or less equal players in one of the most important regions in the world. While this is undoubtedly a good thing in many ways, it has also heightened tensions among them.
由于韩国和中国这几十年的迅速发展，这三个国家已经成为世界上一个最重要地区的几乎势均力敌的参与者。尽管从很多方面来说，这毫无疑问是好事，但也加剧了三国之间的紧张关系。
One might note a parallel between the positions England, Germany and France occupied a century ago — a great power, a rising power and a fading power — and those that America, China and Japan occupy today. We see similar disputes over territory, the same rising tides of nationalism.
有人可能注意到了一个世纪之前的英国、德国和法国，与今天的美国、中国和日本的地位的相似性。英国、德国和法国在当时分别是超级强国、新兴强国和衰落中的强国。我们还看到了类似的领土争议，以及相同的民族主义浪潮。