TOKYO — Is this the end of Abenomics? And if so, why did it fail?
东京——这是安倍经济学的终结吗？如果是，那它为什么会失败？
These are the questions being asked in a shellshocked Japan just days after government accountants announced that the economy, which most experts said they believed was rebounding, had fallen into a sharp recession.
在日本，人们提出了这个问题。虽然大多数专家都说，他们认为日本经济在反弹，但几天前，政府的会计师们宣布，日本经济已陷入严重衰退，令大家震惊。
The answers, economists and political experts say, may turn on the difficulty that Japanese leaders have had in choosing between competing policy approaches: monetary stimulus and fiscal austerity. And that indecision reflects an intense debate about which aspect of Japan’s severe economic woes represents the greater problem: the downward spiral of deflation that stimulus proponents blame for causing two “lost decades” of stagnation, or the ballooning national debt that fiscal hawks worry could doom the nation’s future.
经济学家和政治专家们说，这个问题的答案，可能会抛出一个日本领导人以前遇到过的难题，让他们在两个相互冲突的政策——货币刺激政策，还是财政紧缩政策——之中做出选择。而领导人之所以难以决断，是因为围绕一个问题的激烈辩论：在日本严重的经济困境中，哪方面更加危险？货币刺激政策的支持者们认为，通货紧缩的螺旋式下滑更加险恶，因为它导致了两个“失去的十年”，期间经济增长停滞，而财政鹰派人士担心不断膨胀的国家债务会摧毁日本的未来。
It also reflects a political tug of war, pitting the powerful Ministry of Finance and its demands for budgetary discipline against Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and others who favor government spending and aggressive monetary policies to stimulate growth.
这也是两股政治力量之间的拔河，其中一边是首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)等人，他们支持用政府支出和激进的货币政策来刺激经济增长，另一边是强大的财政省(Ministry of Finance)，要求在预算上严守规矩。
It was in an attempt earlier this year to balance these conflicting impulses that Mr. Abe allowed a planned increase in the national sales tax to go through despite warnings that it could snuff out the fragile recovery he had fostered. Now that those warnings appear to have proved true, Mr. Abe is even more committed to the stimulus approach, postponing a second tax increase and calling a snap election to win renewed support for his growth strategy.
今年早些时候，为了试图平衡这些互相冲突的意见，安倍晋三同意了上调销售税的计划，尽管有人警告说，此举可能会扼杀他苦心经营的脆弱的经济复苏。由于事实似乎证明了这些警告是正确的，安倍晋三变得更加聚焦于刺激政策了，他推迟了第二次调税措施，并要求提前选举，以便为他的增长战略争取支持。
But there is a third view, that neither a balanced budget nor a major stimulus alone will be enough to produce a lasting recovery. What are needed, proponents of this view argue, are painful, market-opening reforms that Mr. Abe has thus far failed to produce. Abenomics, they say, has so far amounted to little more than a short-term supercharging of the economy.
但还有第三种观点，认为平衡的预算和孤立的重大刺激举措都不足以带来持久的经济复苏。这种观点的拥护者表示，真正需要推行的，是痛苦的市场开放改革，安倍晋三迄今未能在这方面采取行动。他们说，到目前为止，安倍经济学所做的，只不过是给经济短期充电。
“Abenomics has just been a mixed bag of tricks so far,” said Takao Komine, a specialist on economic policy at Hosei University in Tokyo. “Its success or failure will depend on whether Prime Minister Abe can deliver on the long-term structural changes.”
“迄今为止，安倍经济学只是在小打小闹，”东京法政大学(Hosei University)的经济政策专家小峰隆夫(Takao Komine)说。“它的成败取决于安倍晋三是否可以推行长期的结构性改革。”
Just a few weeks ago, Abenomics was still winning accolades as a rare success story among developed nations, many of which seemed to have caught the same disease of low to no growth and corrosive price declines known as deflation. When Mr. Abe took office two years ago, he pressured the central bank into making a drastic push to reinflate the economy by pumping it full of cash, which he backed up with huge government stimulus spending. Japan’s stock market soared as the moves seemed to work a miracle, transforming the economy into one of the world’s most robust growth stories.
仅仅几周前，人们还在交口称赞安倍经济学，认为它是发达国家中罕见的成功案例，因为许多发达国家似乎存在同样的弊病：接近于零的增长率和被称为通货紧缩的恶性价格下滑。安倍晋三两年前上任时，迫使央行向市场注入大量现金，重新引发通货膨胀，并以庞大的政府刺激支出为后盾。这些举措似乎创造了奇迹，日本股市飙升，日本经济也成为世界上最强劲的增长案例之一。
Then, seemingly overnight, Mr. Abe’s magic seemed to evaporate. The mortal blow came on Monday, when government figures showed that the world’s third-largest economy shrank by a steep 1.6 percent in the three months ending in September. It was the second straight quarter of economic contraction, the definition of a recession. Mr. Abe, who enjoyed high approval ratings just a few weeks ago, suddenly looked desperate, appearing live on national television to plead for his economic program.
现在，安倍晋三的魔力似乎在一夜之间就烟消云散。最大的冲击是政府本周一公布的数据，它显示，日本这个全球第三大经济体，在截至9月份的三个月中，经济大幅下滑1.6%。这是连续第二个季度出现经济萎缩，与经济衰退的定义相吻合。仅在几周前，民众对安倍晋三的支持率还很高，现在他突然显得非常焦急，在国家电视台上直播现场发言，为自己的经济计划做辩护。
Most economists agree that the immediate cause was the increase on April 1 of the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent, which prompted a tightening of consumer spending that rippled through the $5 trillion economy.
大多数经济学家都认为，出现这种状况的直接原因是，销售税4月1日起从5%上调到8%，导致消费者收紧支出，影响了这个5万亿美元的经济体。
Koichi Hamada, a former professor of economics at Yale University who has been an architect of Mr. Abe’s revival policies, said the tax increase was never part of Abenomics. Rather, he said, it was a legacy from the previous administration, which passed a law mandating that it be put in effect this year. He said fiscal hawks within Mr. Abe’s own governing Liberal Democratic Party had urged the prime minister to let it take effect as scheduled to help tame Japan’s ballooning national debt, which has grown to the equivalent of more than two years of economic output and is already the largest in the developed world.
前耶鲁大学(Yale University)经济学教授滨田宏一(Koichi Hamada)是安倍晋三的复兴政策的设计师，他说增税措施从来都不是安倍经济学的组成部分。实际上，他说，这是因为前任政府通过了一项法律，规定在今年生效。他还表示，在安倍晋三所在的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)内，一些财政鹰派人物曾敦促首相让它生效，希望它有助于缓解日本不断膨胀的国家债务。目前日本的债务规模已经相当于它两年多的经济产出，是发达国家中最高的。
The real force behind the tax increase, he and others said, was the Ministry of Finance, the strongest of Japan’s powerful central ministries and an advocate of balanced budgets. As Japan’s deficits have spiraled upward during its long economic downturn, the ministry has pushed for increasing the national sales tax as the best way to raise new revenue.
滨田宏一等人表示，增税背后的真正推手，是倡导预算平衡的财务省，在强势的日本中央政府中，财务省是权力最大的一个部门。该国长期经济低迷，政府财政赤字已经大幅攀升，财务省一直在力促上调销售税，认为这是获得新收入的最佳途径。
Mr. Hamada and others said the ministry scared the Abe government into going through with the tax increase by arguing that any delay in the tax would make Japan look fiscally irresponsible and cause a stock market crash. Fiscal hawks like those at the ministry fear that a failure to address Japan’s national debt could lead to a crisis of confidence in which Japan can no longer sell its bonds.
滨田宏一等人说，财务省施加压力，让安倍政府上调销售税，声称如果延误此事，就会让人觉得日本在财政上不负责任，可能导致股市崩溃。财政鹰派人物同意财务省的说法，担心如果不解决日本的国家债务问题，可能就会引发信任危机，让日本无法出售债券。
But on Tuesday, Mr. Abe defied the fiscal hawks and postponed the second tax increase until 2017. Investors applauded his renewed focus on growth, sending stocks rebounding after the biggest one-day drop in six months on Monday. “The Ministry of Finance is a tough and powerful opponent, but Abe has the guts to fight back,” Mr. Hamada said.
但在本周二，安倍晋三无视财政鹰派人物，把第二次的增税日期推迟到2017年。投资者称赞他重新把焦点集中在了增长上，股市继本周一创下六个月最大单日跌幅之后，也出现了反弹。“财务省是一个很难对付的实力派对手，但安倍晋三拥有反击他们的勇气，”滨田宏一说。
Some analysts described the snap election as an attempt to curtail the ministry’s influence. By making the tax increase the election’s top issue, Mr. Abe is forcing the ministry’s supporters within his own party to fall in line behind him. “Calling the election is a calculated move by Abe to silence his opponents,” said Mr. Komine, the economist from Hosei University.
一些分析师说，提前大选的目的是削弱财务省的影响力。通过把增税政策作为选举的首要议题，安倍晋三可以逼迫自己政党中那些与财务省看法一致的人士转而支持自己。法政大学的经济学家小峰隆夫说：“选举是安倍晋三用来压制对手的计谋。”
Mr. Hamada expressed optimism that the recession was just a temporary setback, and that the central bank’s decision late last month to pump even more cash into the economy would bring back growth. “The rocket has faltered, but it won’t crash,” he said. “Abenomics is still the right policy for Japan.”
滨田宏一乐观地认为，经济衰退只是一个暂时性的挫折，央行上个月底决定向市场注入更多现金，将会重新带来增长。“火箭在晃动，但它不会坠落，”他说。“对于日本，安倍经济学仍然是正确的政策。”
Other experts are not so sanguine, pointing out that the tax increase was relatively small given the size of the economy. It was a sign of the underlying weakness of Abenomics that it caused such damage, they said.
其他专家并不这么乐观，他们指出，从日本经济的规模来看，增税是个相对较小的举措。他们认为，这是一个迹象，说明安倍经济学的潜在缺陷造成了这种损失。
In particular, these critics argue that Mr. Abe has failed to deliver on promises to nurture entrepreneurship and new industries, and has proved unwilling or unable to challenge the central bureaucrats and vested interests in Japan that are resisting market-opening reforms. The farm lobby, for example, has blocked a trans-Pacific trade deal meant to showcase Mr. Abe’s more competitive Japan.
尤其是，这些批评家认为，安倍晋三未能兑现培养企业家精神和新产业的承诺，而且事实已经证明，他不愿或无力挑战中央机构和既得利益团体中那些抵制市场开放改革的人。例如，农业游说团体就已经阻止了一个泛太平洋贸易协定的签订，本来该协定可以展现安倍晋三所说的“更具竞争力的日本”的优点。
Mr. Abe’s policies have also failed to stop sliding wages. The average income of working households fell in September for a 14th consecutive month. The stimulus and tax increase may have exacerbated the problem. The central bank’s very success in curtailing deflation drove prices higher for the first time in nearly two decades. But because wages did not climb, and the sales tax pushed prices up further, most Japanese felt poorer.
安倍晋三的政策也未能阻止工资下滑。9月份，工薪家庭的平均收入连续第14个月下滑。刺激计划和销售税上调可能加剧了这个问题。由于央行成功阻止了通货紧缩，日本的商品价格出现了近20年来的首次上涨。但由于工资没有增加，销售税上调又进一步推高了价格，大多数日本人感觉更穷了。