TOKYO — Fukui prefecture, with 13 commercial nuclear reactors clustered along the short, rugged coastline, has earned the area a reputation as a political stronghold for the atomic power industry. Nuclear-friendly politicians dominate most of Fukui's government offices, and the region is nicknamed Genpatsu Ginza, or Nuclear Alley.
东京——福井县的海岸线不长且崎岖起伏，却密集分布着13座商业核反应堆，这为该地区赢得了原子能行业的政治要塞的名声。亲核政客在福井的大部分政府机构占据着主导地位，该地区有个绰号叫“核电银座”(Genpatsu Ginza)。
Fukui has now emerged as a battleground for the Japanese government's effort to rebuild the nuclear industry and reverse the economic impact of the reactor shutdowns. On Tuesday, a local judge blocked the latest attempt to get atomic power back on the grid, issuing an injunction to forbid the restarting of two nuclear reactors at the Takahama power plant in the region.
福井现在成了一个战场，日本政府在这里发起重建核工业、扭转核反应堆关闭的经济影响的行动。周二，当地一名法官下令禁止重启该地区高浜发电站的两座核反应堆，叫停了恢复用原子能发电的最新尝试。
The nuclear industry has been in a state of paralysis since the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant four years ago. None of the 48 usable reactors in Japan are back online.
自四年前福岛第一核电站出现堆芯熔融以来，日本核工业一直处于瘫痪状态。日本的48座可用反应堆中，没有一座恢复运行。
Business groups say that delays in returning at least some plants to service are wrecking their bottom line. The price of electricity has increased by 20 percent or more, reflecting the cost of importing more oil and natural gas to make up for the lost nuclear power. That translates to the equivalent of several tens of billions of dollars a year in added expenses for households and companies, according to government estimates.
商业团体称，原本至少恢复部分发电站的计划被推迟，给它们的利润构成了极大影响。电价上涨了20%或以上，这是为弥补失去核电而增加石油及天然气的进口量带来的成本。据政府估计，这相当于居民和企业一年的开支增加几百亿美元。
It is a potential stumbling block for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's efforts to rekindle economic growth, which have focused on increasing corporate profits and consumer spending. Because of the increased use of fossil fuels, Japan's carbon emissions have also risen in the four years since the country began taking its reactors offline.
对日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)重振经济增长的计划而言，这是一个潜在的绊脚石。安倍晋三的努力集中在增加公司利润和消费支出上。在日本开始停止运行反应堆后的四年里，因为化石燃料使用量增加，日本的碳排放也增加了。
The decline in oil prices, which have fallen about 50 percent since June, has taken some of the pressure off the economy. But the government nonetheless sees a revival of nuclear power as critical to supporting growth and slowing an exodus of Japanese industry to lower-cost countries.
自6月以来，油价已下跌约50%，减轻了经济的部分压力。但政府还是认为恢复核电对支持增长，减缓日本工业中的大量业务向低成本国家转移至关重要。
The Kansai Electric Power Co., which owns the plant at the heart of the ruling issued Tuesday, serves a swath of western Japan that includes the metropolis of Osaka. The area served is also home to industrial giants like Panasonic.
周二发布的裁决涉及的发电站为关西电力公司(Kansai Electric Power Co.)所有。该公司的服务范围是日本西部的一个带状区域，包括大都市大阪。松下(Panasonic)等工业巨头均位于其中。
Yoshihide Suga, the chief Cabinet secretary for Abe, questioned the scientific rationale for the Fukui court's decision and said it would not alter the government's support for nuclear power.
安倍晋三的内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)对福井法院判决的科学依据提出了质疑，称其不会改变政府对核电的支持。
“The reactors have been judged by experts to meet the new safety standards,” said Suga, referring to a review by the Nuclear Regulation Authority of Japan that was completed late last year. The agency determined that the Takahama reactors met tougher guidelines introduced after the Fukushima disaster.
“专家已评定那些反应堆达到了新的安全标准，”菅义伟指的是日本原子能管制委员会(Nuclear Regulation Authority)去年年底结束的一次检查。该委员会断定，高浜发电站的反应堆满足福岛核事故后采用的更严格的规定。
“We will respect that judgment, and there is no change to our policy of moving ahead with restarts,” Suga said.
“我们将尊重这一判定结果，同时我们推进重启的政策不会改变，”菅义伟说。
Kansai Electric had intended the reactors in Fukui to be among the first in the country to be returned to service after the introduction of the new rules more than two years ago. But in his ruling Tuesday, the judge, Hideaki Higuchi, challenged the adequacy of the standards, which cover things like plants' resistance to earthquakes and tsunamis, the triggers for the Fukushima disaster.
两年多前新规引入后，关西电力公司本想让福井的反应堆成为全国首批恢复运行的反应堆。但在周二的判决中，法官樋口英明(Hideaki Higuchi)质疑相关标准是否完备。这些标准包括发电站抵抗地震和海啸的能力等。引发福岛核事故的正是地震和海啸。
“There is little rational basis for saying that an earthquake with a magnitude that exceeds the safety standard will not occur,” said Higuchi, 62. “It is an optimistic view.”
“说不会发生震级超过安全标准的地震，是没有理性依据的，”62岁的樋口英明说。“这是一种乐观的看法。”
The reactors had been widely expected to return to service by the end of the year. While Kansai Electric said it would appeal, experts said its plans could be delayed by months or even years.
外界普遍预计，相关反应堆将在今年年底之前恢复运行。关西电力公司称将上诉，但专家表示，该公司的计划可能会被推迟数月乃至数年。