Daisuke Horii just collected his summer bonus. It was only slightly more than last year, but enough to compel the 34-year-old shopping mall clerk to Tokyo’s electronics district to look for some high-end speakers.
掘井大佐（Daisuke Horii，音译）刚刚拿到他夏季的奖金。虽然只比去年多一点，但这笔钱足以让这位34岁的商场职员跑到东京的电子产品商业区，去买一套高端音箱。
“Things are generally looking brighter, aren’t they?” Mr. Horii said, as he scrutinized, then dismissed, cheaper alternatives at the bustling Yodobashi Camera electronics store. The Bose ones he has his eye on, which he’ll hook up to his TV, go for about $400.
“总体而言，事情看上去更有希望，不是吗？”掘井说。他正在熙熙攘攘的友都八喜(Yodobashi Camera)电子产品商店，仔细看了看一些便宜的音响，然后决定不买。他看上的那套自己准备连到电视上的Bose音箱，大约需要400美元（约合2400元人民币）。
“I don’t really need it, but I want it,” he said. “A good economy means you can buy things you don’t really need.”
“我并不真的需要它，但我想要，”掘井说。“经济好时，意味着你可以买自己并不真正需要的东西。”
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s bid to revive Japan’s deflated economy hinges on consumers like Mr. Horii starting to feel flush enough to start splurging on the finer things in life.
日本首相安倍晋三(Abe Shinzo)重振日本通缩经济的计划，就依赖于掘井这样的消费者：他们开始觉得手头足够宽裕，愿意奢侈地进行一些更高端的消费。
A wide recovery in consumer spending has been the weakest link in “Abenomics,” the bold economic stimulus strategy that Mr. Abe has pushed since taking office in late December.
消费者支出的大范围恢复一直是“安倍经济学”最薄弱的一环。自安倍去年12月末上台后，一直在推行这套大胆的经济刺激战略。
Abenomics has already brought big profit bumps to the nation’s exporters, thanks to a yen made weaker by Mr. Abe’s aggressive policies. He found a kindred spirit in Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan’s new governor, who has committed the central bank to easing the money supply and reinflating the economy. Stock markets have rallied, as foreign investors jumped back into a country they had all but written off for its seemingly unshakable stagnation.
由于激进政策促使日元贬值，“安倍经济学”已给该国出口商带来巨额利润增长。安倍支持的日本银行新行长黑田东彦(Haruhiko Kuroda)与其看法非常一致：在他的领导下，日本央行致力于宽松货币政策，促使经济再通胀。外国投资者迅速回归日本，此前他们认为日本似乎无法逃脱经济停滞，因而已对该国彻底失望，随着这些人的回归，日本股市也出现上扬。
Numbers released on Friday by the government provided more proof of Japan’s corporate recovery. Industrial production rose by a robust 2 percent in May from the previous month. Tokyo’s benchmark Nikkei index climbed 3.5 percent Friday on the strong showing.
政府周五发布的数据进一步证明了日本企业的复苏。5月，该国工业生产环比强劲增长2%。周五，东京基准日经指数(Nikkei index)在这个好消息的推动下上涨3.5%。
Reversing a 15-year-long slide in prices, which Mr. Abe has singled out as both a cause and a symptom of waning profits, wages and consumption, is a tougher order. For companies to feel confident enough to start raising prices, Japan’s consumers have to start spending again, and data confirming that trend is still mixed.
而逆转过去15年的价格下降趋势则更加困难，安倍认为价格下降既是利润、工资和消费不断降低的原因，也是其症状。要让公司觉得有足够信心来提高价格，日本的消费者必须再度开始支出，而相关数据表明，这一趋势仍不明朗。
Separate figures released on Friday showed that household spending fell 1.6 percent in May from a year earlier, confounding economists’ expectations of a 1.3 percent rise. Still, for the first time in seven months, Japan’s core consumer prices in May did not fall compared to the previous year, staying flat for that month after falling 0.4 percent the previous month.
周五发布的另外的数据表明，5月，家庭支出同比下降1.6%，给经济学家认为经济将增长1.3%的预期蒙上阴影。不过，日本的核心消费者价格指数七个月来同比首次没有出现下降，当月持平，而此前一个月则下降了0.4%。
“We are comfortable with our view that the uptrend of consumption continues,” Masamichi Adachi, Tokyo-based economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan, said in a note Friday. “An expected rise in summer bonuses, paid in June and July, and improvement in general sentiment are the main reasons,” he said.
“我们还是认为消费的上升趋势将持续下去，”摩根大通证券(JPMorgan Securities)驻东京高级经济学家正道安达(Masamichi Adachi)在周五的一份报告中表示。“6月和7月发放的夏季奖金不出意料地有所上涨，整体消费心理也出现改善，这些都是主要原因，”正道安达说。
There are some signs that after years of penny-pinching, conspicuous spending is on the rise again in Japan. But for now, it is starting at the very top, among the financiers, professionals and other well-to-do Japanese who have benefited from the recent stock market gains.
有些迹象表明，多年来，日本民众在消费上一直斤斤计较，而现在炫耀型消费再度增加。但目前，仅上层人士开始进行这种消费，其中包括金融家、专业人士以及其他从最近股市上涨获益的富裕日本人。
Sales of Ferrari cars in Japan have jumped almost 20 percent so far this year, figures from the Japan Automobile Importers Association show, thanks to this newfound exuberance among the nation’s rich.
日本自动车输入协会(Japan Automobile Importers Association)的数据表明，由于在该国富裕人群中新出现的奢侈风，今年截至目前，法拉利(Ferrari)汽车在日本的销量已上涨近20%。
“We’ve seen confidence start to explode over the last months,” said Herbert Appleroth, chief executive of Ferrari Japan. “We’re seeing some of the highest growth in the world here.”
“我们看到过去几个月内，（消费者）信心开始暴涨，”法拉利日本的首席执行官赫伯特·阿普洛斯(Herbert Appleroth)说。“我们在这里看到位于全球前列的增速。”
At the Hankyu Umeda department store in Osaka, sales of luxury watches, jewelry and other luxury items are surging, which lifted overall sales in May by 63 percent compared with the previous year, the sixth straight month of double-digit increases.
在位于大阪的阪急百货(Hankyu Umeda)商店，奢侈手表、珠宝以及其他奢侈品的销量在飙升，使得该店5月份的整体销售额同比增加63%，实现连续六个月的双位数增长。
“Japanese shoppers are tired of cheap,” said Keiji Uchiyama, manager of the marble-floored store, brimming with imported fragrances, pastel macaroons and slick designer bags. “They’ve scrimped for so long, but now they’ve had enough,” he said.
“日本消费者已经厌烦了便宜货，”该商店的经理内山圭人（Keiji Uchiyama，音译）说。“他们过了很长时间精打细算的日子，但现在他们不愿这这样了。”这家百货商店铺着大理石地板，里面充斥着进口香水、彩色夹心饼和精美的品牌包，各种商品琳琅满目。
Nobuko Kido, 61, and Ikuko Hatanaka, 60, both full-time homemakers, said that the recent positive media coverage of the economy alone made them less guilty about splurging at the department store. Ms. Kido had just spent 60,000 yen ($612) on a small handbag from the Italian luxury fashion house Etro.
61岁的木户顺子（Nobuko Kido，音译）和60岁的幡中郁子（Ikuko Hatanaka，音译）都是家庭主妇，她们说，单是最近媒体对经济形势的正面报道，就减轻了她们在百货商店放手消费的罪恶感。木户刚刚花6万日元（约合3600元人民币），买了意大利奢侈品牌Etro的一个手袋。
“There’s a feeling that the economy is finally picking up,” said Ms. Kido, whose husband is a trading company executive. “Or maybe it’s just an excuse I will tell my husband.”
“有种经济终于要好转的感觉，”木户说，她的丈夫是一家贸易公司的高管。“或者也许这只是我告诉丈夫的一个借口。”
It is a striking return to form for Japan’s consumers, known for their profligate spending in the bubble years of the 1980s. But Japanese consumers hunkered down in the 1990s and in this decade as they adjusted to a deflationary economy and dire expectations for future growth. Some patrons of department stores like Hankyu Umeda, once the epitome of luxury and good living, ditched its polished boutiques and headed to discount stores.
对于日本消费者来说，这是一次惊人的回归，他们曾在20世纪80年代的泡沫年代因大肆挥霍而出名，但在90年代和近十年，日本消费者开始精打细算，以努力适应紧缩经济和极为糟糕的未来发展前景。一度象征着奢华和优质生活的阪急百货等商场的部分顾客，就放弃了精致的精品店，开始光顾折扣店。
As deflation became entrenched, consumers adjusted accordingly. Instead of splurging on a bottle of Chanel fragrance, they started to buy perfume by the ounce from peddlers online. Companies adjusted, and designer denims gave way to no-frill jeans that went for $10 instead of $100. Consumers began visiting Japan’s ubiquitous 100-yen shops, Don Quijote discount stores or even the Hard-Off recycled merchandise stores.
随着通缩变得不可动摇，消费者也随之调整了自己的消费习惯。他们不会再奢侈地买下一瓶香奈儿(Chanel)香水，而是开始从网上的小贩那里按盎司购买香水。公司也做出调整，简单实用的牛仔裤代替了高端品牌牛仔裤，一条只需10美元，而不是100美元。消费者开始光顾在日本随处可见的100日元商店、唐吉诃德(Don Quijote)折扣店铺，甚至是Hard-Off二手商品店。
Consumers grew accustomed to expecting that the longer they waited, the cheaper goods would become. And they held back on spending. That led to even less demand and more years of deflation.
消费者开始习惯认为，他们等得越久，商品就会越便宜。他们在开支上变得保守。这就导致需求进一步降低，通缩继续维持。
The challenge for Mr. Abe has been to reverse those entrenched expectations. For now, he is helped by a weak yen, which inflates the price of imported products. And enthusiasm over signs of life in the stock market, as well as over expectations for a recovery, are lifting spirits.
对安倍来说，他所要面临的挑战便是扭转这些根深蒂固的预期。目前，日元贬值带来通胀，抬高了进口商品的价格，这帮助了安倍。股市重燃生机的迹象，以及对经济复苏的预期引发了热情，提振了情绪。
Economists say much hangs on how much corporate profit will eventually find its way to consumers in the form of higher wages and better job opportunities.
经济学家表示，多少公司利润最终将以更高工资和更好工作机会的形式到达消费者那里，这很重要。
For younger Japanese, living frugally has become a way of life. Shinsuke Nagata, 34, came to shop at Hankyu Umeda, but ended up buying only $4 coffees at a stand in the store’s atrium.
对于年轻日本人而言，节约已成为一种生活方式。34岁的永田新助（Shinsuke Nagata，音译）来阪神百货购物，但最终只在商场中庭里的一个摊位上买了价值4美元的咖啡。
“All this talk of Abenomics doesn’t really apply to us yet. Hopefully it doesn’t just stop with the rich people,” said Mr. Nagata, who is a freelance graphic designer.
“现在，人们口中的安倍经济学尚未真正地对我们产生影响。希望它不会只适用于富人，”身为自由平面设计师的永田说。
Some retailers seem caught between whether to cater to the Mrs. Kidos of Japan, willing to spend a little extra, or the Mr. Nagatas, still scrimping on the pennies.
一些零售商似乎陷入两难境地，不知是应迎合日本那些愿意稍微奢侈一些的木户太太们，还是像永田这样花钱仍十分谨慎的人。
Kozo Sushi, a nationwide takeout sushi chain, said this week it was lowering prices at the cheaper end of its menu to 399 yen ($4), but would add a new superpremium meal, which costs 1,189 yen ($12) and comes with more delicacies.
这周，全国寿司外卖连锁店小僧寿司(Kozo Sushi)表示，它正将其提供的低端消费降至399日元，但同时也会增加一份售价1189日元、包含更多美食选择的豪华套餐。
“Abenomics is benefiting only the lucky few, so we didn’t want anyone to feel left out,” said Akira Tashima, a Kozo Sushi spokesman. “If you’re one of the lucky ones, we have snow crab for you. If you need to save, we also have plain tuna.”
“安倍经济学只让少数一些幸运者受益，因此我们不想让任何人觉得被落下，”小僧寿司的一个发言人田岛明(Akira Tashima)说。“如果你是幸运者中的一个，我们为你准备了雪蟹。如果你要省钱，我们也有普通的金枪鱼。”