TOKYO — The Japanese government has asked for the partial retraction of a nearly two-decade-old United Nations report on women forced to work in Japanese military brothels, but the report’s author has refused the request, a Japanese government spokesman said on Thursday.
东京——日本政府一位发言人周四表示，日本政府要求撤回一份联合国(United Nations)报告的部分内容。这份有将近20年历史的报告主题是被迫为日军提供性服务的女性。但报告的作者回绝了这个要求。
The spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said his government sent a top diplomat to make the request personally to Radhika Coomaraswamy, a former United Nations special rapporteur on violence against women. Ms. Coomaraswamy, a Sri Lankan lawyer, wrote the 1996 report that called on Japan to apologize and pay compensation to women who the report said had been coerced into serving as sexual slaves for the Japanese Army during World War II.
上述发言人内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)称，日本政府派遣了一名高层外交官，亲自前去请求拉迪卡·库马拉斯瓦米(Radhika Coomaraswamy)。库马拉斯瓦米是一名斯里兰卡律师，曾是联合国关于女性所受暴力的特别报告员。她于1996年撰写的这份报告，要求日本向报告中所说的，在二战期间被迫为日本军队充当性奴的女性道歉并做出赔偿。
Mr. Suga did not specify exactly which part of the report his government had asked to be retracted, but he said that Ms. Coomaraswamy had declined the request.
菅义伟并未具体说明政府希望撤回哪部分内容，但他表示，库马拉斯瓦米拒绝了这个请求。
In making the request, the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe appeared to be heeding longstanding demands by supporters of Mr. Abe on the political right that Japan challenge the internationally accepted view that the women, known euphemistically in Japan as “comfort women,” were forced to provide sex to Japanese soldiers.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府提出这一要求，似乎是考虑了安倍的右翼支持者长期以来的要求：日本政府应该挑战国际社会普遍接受的观点——在日本被委婉称作“慰安妇”的女性，曾被迫为日本士兵提供性服务。
Those calls have increased sharply since August, when a major Japanese newspaper, the liberal Asahi Shimbun, printed a front-page retraction of several stories that it published on the issue in the 1980s and 1990s. Those stories were based on the testimony of a former Japanese soldier, Seiji Yoshida, who said he had helped kidnap Korean women to work in the brothels.
自8月以来，此类呼声开始日益高涨。当时，日本自由派大报《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)在头版发表声明，撤回了该报在上世纪80年代和90年代就这个议题发表过的几篇报道。那些报道的依据是曾在日军服役的吉田清治(Seiji Yoshida)的证词。他曾说，自己曾参与朝鲜半岛绑架女性，并把她们送到妓院。
Mr. Yoshida’s claims were later shown by scholars to have been fabricated. In its retraction, the Asahi also admitted that it could not find evidence backing up the testimony of Mr. Yoshida, who died in 2000.
后来，学者证明吉田清治的说法根本子虚乌有。《朝日新闻》在声明中承认，无法找到证据来支撑吉田清治的说法。吉田清治已于2000年去世。
Conservatives have seized on the Asahi’s retraction to assert that the entire sex slaves issue itself is a fabrication, and that the women were no more than common prostitutes who worked in the brothels of their own accord.
保守派人士利用《朝日新闻》撤回报道的机会，声称整个性奴役问题本身纯属捏造，那些女性只是自愿在妓院从事性工作的普通妓女。
However, many Japanese mainstream scholars and most non-Japanese researchers reject those claims, saying that Mr. Yoshida’s testimony was never a major piece of historical evidence that women were coerced. They cite other evidence, including the testimonies of many of the women themselves, who in the 1990s broke decades of silence to begin speaking out about their experiences.
但很多日本主流学者及大多数非日本籍研究人员都不接受这种说法，他们称吉田清治的证词从来不是证明女性被迫提供性服务的主要历史证据。他们引用了其他证据，包括很多女性的证词，她们在上世纪90年代打破了数十年的沉默，开始讲述自己的经历。
Based largely on these testimonies, many mainstream scholars have concluded that tens of thousands of mostly Asian but also Dutch women worked in Japanese wartime brothels, many against their will. Japanese conservatives dispute that, calling the women’s testimony biased and unreliable, and citing what they call a lack of corroborating evidence.
很多主流学者主要基于这些证词断定，数万的女性战时在日本军中从事性服务，其中很多人是被迫的。这些女性大部分是亚洲人，也有荷兰女性。日本保守派人士驳斥了上述说法，认为这些女性的证词充满偏见、不可信，而且还称其中缺乏可以相互印证的证据。
In an interview published earlier this month with a top Japanese conservative newspaper, Yomiuri Shimbun, Ms. Coomaraswamy said that the Asahi’s retraction did not convince her of a need to amend the United Nations report. She was quoted as saying that the report was based mostly on the testimonies of “a large number of ‘comfort women.’ ” She was also quoted as saying that the testimony of Mr. Yoshida, which was cited in her United Nations report, did not play a big role in its conclusions.
日本主要保守派报纸《读卖新闻》(Yomiuri Shimbun)本月早些时候刊登了对库马拉斯瓦米的访谈。她在接受采访时表示，《朝日新闻》撤回报道的举动没有说服她，她认为没有必要修改联合国的报告。《读卖新闻》援引她的话说，该报告主要基于“大量‘慰安妇’的证词”。该报道还称，她表示，联合国报告中引用的吉田清治的证词，没有在得出结论的过程中发挥很大作用。