YOKOSUKA, Japan — Ever since her elderly neighbor moved a decade ago, Yoriko Haneda has done what she can to keep the empty house she left behind from becoming an eyesore. Ms. Haneda regularly trims its shrubs and clips its narrow strip of grass, maintaining its perfect view of the sea.
日本横须贺市——羽田依子（Yoriko Haneda，音）有位上了年纪的邻居在十年前搬走了，自那以后，她努力让这座空屋不会有碍观瞻。羽田女士会定期修剪庭院的灌木和那片狭长的草坪，尽力维持它完美的海景。
The volunteer yard work has not extended to the house two doors down, however. That one is vacant, too, and overgrown with bamboo. In fact, dozens of houses in this hillside neighborhood about an hour’s drive from Tokyo are abandoned.
但是，这种自愿的庭院工作没有惠及再下一户人家。那间房子也已无人居住，院子里长满了竹子。事实上，在离东京约一小时车程的这片山坡居民区，几十栋住房人去楼空。
“There are empty houses everywhere, places where nobody’s lived for 20 years, and more are cropping up all the time,” said Ms. Haneda, 77, complaining that thieves had broken into her neighbor’s house twice and that a typhoon had damaged the roof of the one next to it.
“空房到处都是，有些地方已经二十年没人住了，一直以来这种事情有增无减，”羽田女士说道。她77岁了，抱怨说小偷曾两次闯进邻居的住房，还有一次台风毁掉了邻居旁边那所房子的屋顶。
Despite a deeply rooted national aversion to waste, discarded homes are spreading across Japan like a blight in a garden. Long-term vacancy rates have climbed significantly higher than in the United States or Europe, and some eight million dwellings are now unoccupied, according to a government count. Nearly half of them have been forsaken completely — neither for sale nor for rent, they simply sit there, in varying states of disrepair.
虽然日本国民对浪费有着根深蒂固的反感，但住房弃置的问题却在各地蔓延。日本的长期空置率大幅攀升，已经远超欧美。根据政府统计，现在大概有八百万套住房无人居住，其中将近一半被完全舍弃——既不出售，亦不出租，只是伫立在原地，渐渐年久失修。
These ghost homes are the most visible sign of human retreat in a country where the population peaked a half-decade ago and is forecast to fall by a third over the next 50 years. The demographic pressure has weighed on the Japanese economy, as a smaller work force struggles to support a growing proportion of the old, and has prompted intense debate over long-term proposals to boost immigration or encourage women to have more children.
日本的人口在五年前达到顶峰，预测将在未来的50年里减少三分之一，而这些鬼屋最为清楚地展现出人类在这样一个国家里的撤退。随着越来越少的劳动力需要供养比例不断增加的老年人口，这样的人口结构压力给日本经济带来了沉重的负担，也使日本开始围绕鼓励移民或妇女多生孩子的长期提议进行激烈的辩论。
For now, though, after decades in which it struggled with overcrowding, Japan is confronting the opposite problem: When a society shrinks, what should be done with the buildings it no longer needs?
在过去的几十年里，日本一直苦于应对过度拥挤的问题，到了今时今日，它却面临着另一个截然相反的难题：当一个社会萎缩之时，那些不再需要的建筑应当如何处置？
Many of Japan’s vacant houses have been inherited by people who have no use for them and yet are unable to sell, because of a shortage of interested buyers. But demolishing them involves tactful questions about property rights, and about who should pay the costs. The government passed a law this year to promote demolition of the most dilapidated homes, but experts say the tide of newly emptied ones will be hard to stop.
很多空屋的继承人并不需要这些房子，但又因缺少感兴趣的买家而无法出售，而拆除它们又涉及产权和费用支付等现实问题。今年，日本政府通过了一项法律，意图推进最残破的那些房屋的拆除工作，但是专家称，新近出现的房屋遭弃的浪潮将难以抵挡。
“Tokyo could end up being surrounded by Detroits,” said Tomohiko Makino, a real estate expert who has studied the vacant-house phenomenon. Once limited mostly to remote rural communities, it is now spreading through regional cities and the suburbs of major metropolises. Even in the bustling capital, the ratio of unoccupied houses is rising.
“东京可能最终会被类似于底特律的空城包围，” 研究空房现象的房地产专家牧野智彦（Tomohiko Makino，音）说。空房现象以前大多只存在于偏远的乡村地区，如今已经扩散到区域城市，并出现在大都市的郊区。即使是在繁忙的首都，房屋空置率也在攀升。
Yokosuka is on the front lines. Within commuting distance of Tokyo and close to naval bases and automobile factories, it attracted thousands of young job-seekers in the era of roaring economic growth that followed World War II. Land was scarce and expensive, so the newcomers built small, simple homes wherever they could.
横须贺市就首当其冲。它在东京的通勤距离内，又和多座海军基地及汽车厂相隔不远。在二战后经济突飞猛进的年代里，横须贺吸引了大批寻找工作的年轻人。那时候土地稀缺、价格昂贵，因此这些新来的人见缝插针地建造简单的小型住所。
Today the boom is relentlessly reversing itself. The young workers of the postwar years are now retirees, and few people, their children included, want to take over their homes. “Their kids are in modern high-rises in central Tokyo,” Mr. Makino said. “To them, the family home is a burden, not an asset.”
事到如今，趋势完全逆转，不可阻挡。战后的青年员工退了休，没什么人愿意接手他们的房屋，哪怕是自己的子女。“他们的孩子住在东京市中心的现代化高楼里，”牧野说。“对他们而言，老家的房子是负担，不是什么资产。”
Japan’s birthrate has been stuck below the level needed to maintain the population since the 1970s, as young people postpone marriage and many women put off having children as they enter the work force.
自70年代以来，日本的出生率就一直低于保持人口规模所需的水平。原因是年轻人推迟结婚，而且女性进入职场后，许多人也会推延生育年龄。
The city of Yokosuka is trying to change that, by encouraging owners of abandoned houses to tidy them up and put them on the market. It has established an online “vacant home bank” to showcase houses that commercial real estate agents will not touch. Land prices in Yokosuka are down by 70 percent since their peak at the end of the 1980s.
横须贺想努力改变这一点，鼓励弃置房屋的业主将其打理好，然后放到市场上去。市里设立了一家在线“空屋库”，用来展示商业地产中介不会搭理的这类房子。比起80年代末的高峰期，横须贺的地价如今下降了70%。
The houses are a steal for the rare souls who will have them. But just one has been sold through the home bank so far, a 60-year-old single-story wooden home with a patch of garden that was listed for 660,000 yen, or $5,400. Places farther up the hill can be had for the equivalent of just a few hundred dollars. Four have been rented, including one to students in a nursing-care program at a nearby college who receive a discount in return for checking up on elderly people in the area.
对于愿意住进去的少数人而言，这些房屋划算极了。不过，迄今为止仅有一栋房子通过空屋库售出。那是一间带小花园的单层独栋木屋，房龄60年，挂牌价66万日元，约合3.5万元人民币。再往山上去一些的地方，类似的房子要价区区几万日元。有四栋房子成功出租，其中一间租给了在附近的大学念护理课程的几名学生。他们还拿了租房折扣，交换条件是帮助查看周边老年人的情况。
Other towns have tried their own creative solutions, including offering cash payments to outsiders who move in and buy unoccupied homes. A few have succeeded in attracting pockets of artists and freelance workers, who stay tethered by the Internet to their urban clients.
其他一些城镇也在尝试各自想出的新点子，比如给移居到当地并购买空屋的外来人员提供现金奖励。有几个地方成功地吸引了小批艺术家和自由职业者，他们可以通过互联网来与大城市里的客户保持联系。
There is even a sprawling art project, the Echigo-Tsumari Art Field, which has taken unoccupied buildings in a cluster of towns northwest of Tokyo and turned them into contemporary artworks. Visitors can spend the night in a “Dream House” designed by the performance artist Marina Abramovic, with coffin-like beds and tinted lights designed to elicit dreams, or tour other buildings that have been intricately carved, painted or filled with sculptural installations.
甚至还出现了大型艺术项目“越后妻有”(Echigo-Tsumari Art Field)。该项目接收了东京西北面一片村镇的空置建筑，将它们改造为当代艺术空间。访客可以在行为艺术家玛莉娜·阿布拉莫维奇(Marina Abramovic)设计的“梦之家”(Dream House)里过夜，经历类似棺材的睡床和彩色的灯光带来的造梦体验，或是参观其他建筑，欣赏其中精心创作的雕塑、绘画或装置艺术作品。
“They may not be used for their original purpose anymore, but preserving them physically is important,” said the project’s founder, Fram Kitagawa. “The key is to preserve them in a positive way.”
“它们大概是没有再用作原来的用途了，但是把它们的物理形式保存下来是很重要的，”项目创始人北川富朗(Fram Kitagawa)说。“关键是用积极的方式保存它们。”
Raw numbers suggest there is a limit to how many homes can be rescued through reuse, however. Japan’s population of 127 million is expected to drop by a million a year in the coming decades. Efforts to increase its low birthrate have been only modestly successful, and the public has shown no appetite for mass immigration. “We have too much infrastructure,” said Takashi Onishi, an urban planning professor and the president of the Science Council of Japan. The government, he believes, will eventually have to cut services like water and road and bridge maintenance in the most depopulated areas. “We can’t maintain it all. We’ll have to make those hard choices.”
然而，原始数据显示，通过重复使用而得到挽救的空屋数量有限。日本目前的人口为1.27亿，预计将在未来几十年里每年下降100万。拉升低出生率的种种努力仅取得了有限的成功，公众也显示他们没有接受大规模移民的意愿。“我们的基础设施太多了，”日本学术会议(Science Council of Japan)会长、城市规划教授大西隆(Takashi Onishi)表示。他认为，政府最后将不得不在人口锐减的地区终止上下水和路桥养护等服务。“我们没办法都维持下去，必须做出艰难抉择。”
The most blunt solution for abandoned houses is to tear them down before they become hazards or their neighborhoods earn an irreversible reputation for blight. But owners can be hard to track down, and are often reluctant to pay demolition costs.
对于遭到弃置的房屋，最直接的办法是拆除，以免造成灾害，或是让所在居民区沾染上洗脱不掉的衰败名声。不过，有时难以找到业主，他们也往往不愿支付拆除的费用。
The house that Ms. Haneda tends is owned by the family of Mioko Utagawa, 74, who lives a 10-minute walk down the hill. Ms. Utagawa’s husband bought it for an aunt in the 1970s after she divorced and moved here from Tokyo. Now she is in a nursing home. The family has been paying her modest property taxes but has otherwise left the house alone. The interior is a musty wreck; a small addition that once housed the bath has been ripped out, and the bathtub sits upturned on the faithfully manicured lawn.
羽田女士帮忙照看的房子归74岁的歌川三保子（Mioko Utagawa，音）的家庭所有。她如今居住在往山下走十分钟的地方。70年代的时候，歌川女士的丈夫为离了婚从东京搬来的一个阿姨处买下了这栋房子，而她眼下住在疗养院里。这家人帮她承担了数目不大的房产税，但除此之外便不闻不问了。房子里头破破烂烂，弥散着霉味；当年搭建的一小间浴室倒了，浴缸倒扣在羽田兢兢业业修剪的草地上。
“Even if we fixed it up nobody would want it,” Ms. Utagawa said.
歌川女士表示，“即便我们修补了，也没人想要。”
The Utagawas recently agreed to have the house demolished, after the city offered to subsidize the estimated 3 million yen cost, under a municipal program introduced last year to deal with hazardous or hopelessly unsellable homes. It is scheduled for destruction this fall. Noriyuki Shima, the director of the city’s planning department, said cost considerations meant the city was targeting only the worst-affected neighborhoods.
该市根据去年推出的处理危险或无望售出的房屋的市政项目，主动表示会为大约300万日元的拆除费用提供补助，歌川三保子家因此同意放弃房屋。按照计划，这栋房子将在今年秋季被拆除。该市规划部门主管志满则幸（Noriyuki Shima，音）表示，成本考虑意味着，该市只会针对受影响最严重的社区展开拆除活动。
“Giving public money to demolish a private house isn’t something we can do lightly,” he said.
他说，“我们不会轻易利用公款拆除私人房屋。”
The new national law, which came into effect in May, could help more municipalities cull their vacant houses. Among other changes, it removed a perverse incentive that has contributed to the problem. A tax break introduced decades ago to encourage home construction sets property tax rates on vacant lots at six times the level of those on built-up land. That means that if an owner demolishes a home, the tax rate soars — a big reason many let even crumbling houses stand.
5月生效的新国家法律会帮助更多市民拆除空置房屋。除了其他变更，该法还移除了一个导致该问题的不当的激励机制。几十年前推行的鼓励建房的减税政策将闲置土地的财产税率设定为有建筑占据用地税率的六倍。这意味着，如果房屋主人拆除了房屋，税率会大增——这是很多破旧房屋依然耸立的主要原因。
Now the government can revoke the preferential tax treatment for houses whose absentee owners are letting them fall apart. But some critics say Japan needs a more fundamental shift in its approach to housing, which has long prioritized new construction over reuse.
如今，政府可以撤销一些破损房屋的税收优惠待遇，这些房屋的主人长期不在这里居住，导致房屋破败。但一些批评人士表示，日本需要在处理房屋的方式方面做出更为根本的改变，这种方式一直优先考虑建造新房屋，而不是重复使用。
Hidetaka Yoneyama, a housing specialist at the Fujitsu Research Institute, a think tank, said that until recently, homes in Japan were built to last only about 30 years, when they were then expected to be torn down and rebuilt. Building quality is improving, but the market for secondhand homes remains tiny. Developers are still building more than 800,000 new homes and condominiums a year, despite the glut of vacancies.
智库富士通研究所(Fujitsu Research Institute)房屋专家米山秀隆(Hidetaka Yoneyama)表示，日本的房屋只按30年寿命进行设计，直到最近都是如此。30年后，房屋将会被拆毁重建。虽然建筑质量不断改善，但二手房市场仍然很小。尽管空置房屋过剩，开发商每年还在建造逾80万个新房屋和公寓。