TOKYO — In a widely watched ruling, Japan’s Supreme Court on Wednesday called last year’s parliamentary elections out of compliance with the Constitution because of inequalities in the size of voting districts, but stopped short of declaring the results invalid.
东京——周三，由于选区规模不一，日本最高法院(Japan’s Supreme Court)在一起广受关注的裁决中，判定去年的众议院选举不符合宪法规定，不过，法院并未宣布选举结果无效。
The court, the nation’s highest, was ruling on 16 separate lawsuits that had been filed by lawyers in different courts around Japan seeking to nullify results in December’s lower house elections, which returned to power the Liberal Democratic Party of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Those lawsuits sought to invalidate the results on the grounds that the number of voters in some districts, mostly rural ones, was far fewer than in other mostly urban districts, giving rural voters greater power in Parliament.
日本最高法院对16桩独立诉讼实施了判决。相关律师对不同的日本法院提起诉讼，力求废除去年12月的众议院选举结果，这场选举让首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)所在的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)再次成为执政党。上述诉讼谋求废除选举结果的理由是，一些选区的选民数比很多位于城市地区的选区的选民数要低得多，前者大部分是农村选区，这让农村选民在国会拥有了更大权力。
Earlier this year, two of those lawsuits won unprecedented decisions by lower courts that declared invalid the results in two districts. While there had been growing expectations that the Supreme Court might take a similarly activist stance on an issue that has long bedeviled Japanese elections, the judges did not go that far.
今年早些时候，两起诉讼赢得了史无前例的判决，下级法院宣布两个选区的选举结果无效。虽然日渐增长的期望认为，在长期困扰日本选举的这个问题上，最高法院也许会采取类似的激进立场，那里的法官们却没有走得那么远。
Instead, the court declared the elections to be “in a state of unconstitutionality” while requiring no remedial action beyond vaguely urging lawmakers to fix the problem. That is the same ruling that the court has made in several similar cases going back more than two decades.
最后，法院宣布选举处于“违宪状态”，与此同时，除了含糊其辞地敦促立法者纠正这个问题之外，法院没有要求采取补救行动。这个判决结果，和法院在过去20多年里就几个类似案件做出的判决是一致的。
The court suggested that stronger action was unnecessary because Parliament had already taken steps to shrink the gaps in district sizes, and is considering new legislation that would further reduce those inequalities.
法院提出，没有必要采取更强力的行动，因为国会已经采取步骤缩小选区间的差异，并且正在考虑能够进一步减少这种不平等现象的新法案。
Still, the lawyers who filed the lawsuits noted that yawning discrepancies in the size of election districts remain, with the largest district having 2.43 times more voters than the least populated district in the December elections. Some political scientists have blamed these differences for making Japan resistant to change despite its long decline, and say they empower conservative rural voters at the expense of urban residents, who might be more willing to challenge vested interests.
尽管如此，提出诉讼的律师们指出，选区间规模上的差异鸿沟依然存在，在去年12月的选举中，规模最大的选区的选民数，是人口最少的选区选民数的2.43倍。一些政治学家把日本不顾长期衰退，依然拒绝改变的状态归咎于选区的差异，他们说，这种差异加大了保守的农村选民的权力，代价是城市选民丧失了权力，后者也许更愿意挑战既得利益。
“This ruling does not answer our argument” about the need to fix the district inequalities, said Hidetoshi Masunaga, one of the lawyers who filed the lawsuits. “In this regard, today’s ruling was completely inadequate.”
升永英俊(Hidetoshi Masunaga)说，“此次判决没有回应我们”认为需要修正地区间的不平等“的主张。就这一点而言，今天的判决根本起不到作用。”升永英俊是提出诉讼的律师之一。