THE HAGUE — Japan will announce Monday that it will turn over to Washington more than 700 pounds of weapons-grade plutonium and a large quantity of highly enriched uranium, a decades-old research stockpile that is large enough to build dozens of nuclear weapons, according to American and Japanese officials.
海牙——美国和日本的一些官员说，日本将于周一宣布，将向华盛顿交出700多磅（约合318公斤）的武器级钚，以及大量高浓缩铀，这批存在了几十年的库存科研物资规模之大，足以制造数十枚核弹。
The announcement is the biggest single success in President Obama’s five-year-long push to secure the world’s most dangerous materials, and will come as world leaders gather here on Monday for a nuclear security summit meeting. Since Mr. Obama began the meetings with world leaders — this will be the third — 13 nations have eliminated their caches of nuclear materials and scores more have hardened security at their storage facilities to prevent theft by potential terrorists.
美国总统奥巴马五年来一直在确保世界上最危险材料的安全，上述消息是其相关行动取得的最大成功，日本宣布该消息的同时，世界各国领导人周一将聚集在这里参加核安全峰会。自从奥巴马总统与世界各国领导人召开这一会议以来，已经有13个国家移除了核材料储备，除这些国家之外，又有数十个国家强化了存储设施的安全，以防止核材料被潜在的恐怖分子窃取。此次核峰会将是第三届。
Japan’s agreement to transfer the material — the amount of highly enriched uranium has not been announced but is estimated at 450 pounds — has both practical and political significance. For years these stores of weapons-grade material were not a secret, but were lightly guarded at best; a reporter for The New York Times who visited the main storage site at Tokaimura in the early 1990s found unarmed guards and a site less-well protected than many banks. While security has improved, the stores have long been considered vulnerable.
日本同意移交的核材料——高浓缩铀的数量尚未宣布，估计在450磅左右——既有现实意义，又有政治意义。多年以来，这些武器级材料储备已经不是秘密，但在最好的情况下，对这些材料的保护也极为薄弱；上世纪90年代初，《纽约时报》的一名记者参观了东海村的主要存储地点，并且发现，那里的保安没有配备武器，其安全性甚至不如许多银行。尽管安保措施已经有所改善，长期以来，外界一直认为这些存储设施不堪一击。
Iran has cited Japan’s large stockpiles of bomb-ready material as evidence of a double standard about which nations can be trusted. And last month China began publicly denouncing Japan’s supply, in apparent warning that a rightward, nationalistic turn in Japanese politics could result in the country seeking its own weapons.
伊朗曾声称，日本储备了大量可立即制成核弹的材料，为了证明在对不同国家的信任方面存在双重标准。上个月，中国开始公开谴责日本的核材料储备，似乎是警告说，日本政界出现向右倾的、民族主义的转向，可能会导致该国寻求拥有自己的核武器。
At various moments right-wing politicians in Japan have referred to the stockpile as a deterrent, suggesting that it was useful to have material so that the world knows Japan, with its advanced technological acumen, could easily fashion it into weapons.
日本右翼政治家曾多次把这些库存称作一种威慑，他们表示，拥有这些材料对日本有利，可以让全世界知道，日本可以利用其先进的技术，轻松地将这些储备制成核武器。
The nuclear fuel being turned over to the United States, which is of American and British origin, is a fraction of Japan’s overall stockpile. Japan has more than nine tons of plutonium stored in various locations and it is scheduled to open in the fall a new nuclear fuel plant that could produce many tons more every year. American officials have been quietly pressing Japan to abandon the program, arguing that the material is insufficiently protected even though much of it is in a form that would be significantly more difficult to use in a weapon than the supplies being sent to the United States.
将被交给美国的这些核燃料源自美国和英国，它们只是日本全部核材料储备的一小部分。日本在不同地点存储了超过九吨的钚，并计划今年秋天开设一家新的核燃料厂，每年可以生产很多吨的钚。美国官员一直在暗中向日本施压，要求其放弃该项目，美国称，这些材料受到的保护不足，虽然与即将交给美国的储备相比，由于是不同种类的材料，把它们中的很大一部分用在武器上要难得多。
Mr. Obama’s initiative to lock down plutonium and uranium around the world was supposed to have been just the first step in an ambitious agenda to seek “the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons,” as he said in Prague in 2009. Now, the downturn in relations with Russia has dashed hopes of mutual reductions in the world’s two largest arsenals. At the same time, North Korea has resumed its program, Pakistan and India are modernizing their weapons, and the Senate has not taken up any of the treaties Mr. Obama once described as vital.
奥巴马2009年在布拉格曾说，将寻求“一个无核化世界的和平与安全”，他在全世界确保钚和铀的安全的行动应该只是这个宏伟目标的第一步。如今，对俄关系的下滑击碎了共同缩小世界上两个最大核武器库的希望。与此同时，朝鲜已经恢复了核项目，巴基斯坦和印度则在更新其核武器，而参议院还没有开始讨论任何被奥巴马形容为至关重要的公约。
The result is that nuclear security — eliminating or locking down nuclear material — may be the biggest element of Mr. Obama’s nuclear legacy. The only other aspect of his agenda that may yet come to fruition centers on Iran, where economic sanctions, covert action and diplomacy have brought Tehran to the table to negotiate over its nuclear program. But even Mr. Obama says his chances of reaching a deal are at best 50-50.
结果是，核安全——移除核材料或确保核材料安全——可能是奥巴马核政策遗产的最重要元素。他的计划中还有一个方面有可能开花结果，这个方面与伊朗有关，经济制裁、秘密行动和外交手段已经让德黑兰坐到了有关其核项目的谈判桌上。但就连奥巴马也说，他达成协议的概率顶多是50%。
“The Obama team came in thinking a lot of things would be easier than they turned out to be,” said Matthew Bunn, a professor at Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
哈佛大学贝尔福科学与国际事务研究中心(Harvard Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs)的教授马修·邦恩(Matthew Bunn)说，“奥巴马团队一开始把很多事情想象得很容易，结果发现并非如此。”
One of Mr. Obama’s major goals has been to stop the production of new supplies of nuclear material; at the last nuclear security summit meeting, in 2012, he said “we simply can’t go on accumulating huge amounts of the very material, like separated plutonium, that we’re trying to keep away from terrorists.” But Pakistan has blocked his effort to negotiate a treaty that would end the production of more material — called the Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty — and it is unclear whether the summit communiqué will contain language urging other countries to disgorge their plutonium stockpiles.
奥巴马的一个主要目标是，终止新的核材料的生产；他在2012年的上届核安全峰会上说，“我们正在努力不让一些材料落入恐怖分子的手中，我们决不能继续大量积累这些材料了，比如分离钚。”但巴基斯坦阻碍了奥巴马通过谈判达成公约的行动，该公约被称为《禁止生产裂变材料条约》(Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty)，旨在终结更多核材料的生产。目前还不清楚，本届峰会的联合声明是否会包含要求其他国家交出其钚存储的表述。
Both administration officials and advocates of major nuclear reductions argue that Mr. Obama has focused a level of attention on securing stockpiles even if his arms reduction efforts have come up short.
美国政府官员以及支持大幅减核的人士说，虽然奥巴马的核裁军行动成效不大，但他仍把一定的注意力放在了确保核材料储备的安全上。
“What President Obama has done is put it more on the front burner and accelerated the process,” said Sam Nunn, a former Democratic senator from Georgia who played a central role in creating the American-backed program to help dismantle nuclear weapons and clean up nuclear material around the world.
“奥巴马总统所做的是给予它更多的关注，并且加快这一进程，”来自乔治亚州的民主党前参议员萨姆·纳恩(Sam Nunn)说。纳恩曾在创建一个美国支持的计划方面起到核心作用。该计划旨在世界范围内协助核武器的拆除与核材料的清理工作。
“Significant progress has been made — not enough,” said Mr. Nunn, the chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a research group that presses for deeper cuts.
“已经取得了可观的进展——但还不够，”纳恩说。他如今是敦促进一步削减核武的研究机构核威胁倡议组织(Nuclear Threat Initiative)的主席。
The summit meetings, which have taken place every two years, have forced national leaders to focus on their stockpiles of materials and their protections, and engaged the United States on their processes for securing them, blending them down so they cannot be used in bombs, or getting rid of them.
隔年举办的核安全峰会，使得各国领导人不得不关注本国的核材料储备及其安保工作，并且让美国参与到保障这些材料的安全、稀释它们以不能用于核武，或者移除它们的进程中来。