Hakubun Shimomura, Japan’s minister for education and science, has been working to make the country’s universities more competitive globally since his appointment to the post in December.
自从去年12月被任命以来，日本文部科学大臣下村博文(Hakubun Shimomura)就一直致力于推动日本高校提高国际竞争力。
In an interview, he discussed the government’s “Abenomics” policies, as well as the need to internationalize Japanese higher education, attract foreign faculty, improve English language capabilities and update the admissions process.
在一次访谈中，他谈到了日本政府的“安倍经济学”政策，以及推动日本高等教育国际化、吸引国外教师、提高英语教学能力和革新招生制度的必要性。
He also commented on his personal experiences of the Japanese university system in relation to his son, who has learning disabilities. His son attends a British university, from which he expects to graduate this year.
下村博文还就日本大学系统与他儿子的个人经历做出了评论。他儿子有学习障碍，目前在英国一所大学就读，将于今年毕业。
Q. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is trying to reinvigorate the nation through Abenomics. Is this related to initiatives by you and your panel? 
问：首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)正试图通过安倍经济学复兴日本。这是否和你以及你们团队的倡议有关？
A. They definitely are. To sustain economic growth, we need to spur technological innovation and create new industries in fields like medicine and health care, not just in the conventional industries of the automobiles and home electronics. One good example of our efforts in this arena is the ¥110 billion [$1.12 billion] we committed to the research of iPS stem cells led by Dr. Shinya Yamanaka, the Nobel laureate. [Induced pluripotent stem cells, referred to by Mr. Shimomura, are stem cells derived from ordinary body cells rather than embryos].
答：肯定是有关系的。为了维持经济增长，我们应当在医药和医疗等各大领域鼓励技术创新并培育新行业，而不仅仅是局限于传统的汽车和家电领域。在这一方面，能很好体现我们所作努力的一个例子是，我们投入了1100亿日元（约合11.2亿美元）进行诱导性多功能干细胞(iPS)的研究。这项研究由诺贝尔奖得主山中伸弥(Shinya Yamanaka)博士牵头。（下村先生提到的诱导性多功能干细胞来源于普通身体细胞而不是胚胎的干细胞）。
We need to develop human capital to realize industrial growth as envisioned in the “third arrow” of Abenomics. Our per capita gross domestic product has fallen from being the world’s No. 2 to No. 27 recently. As the labor force shrinks and the population ages, lifting productivity is about the only pathway to realizing higher economic growth.
我们需要开发人力资本，以实现安倍经济学“第三支箭”所憧憬的产业增长。我们的人均国内生产总值近来已经从曾经的世界第2位下滑到第27位。在劳动力人口收缩和人口老龄化的背景下，提高生产力将是日本实现更快经济增长的唯一途径。
Q. What is the main challenge for universities? 
问：日本高校面临的主要挑战是什么？
A. Japan’s higher education has not truly been a place to foster global talents. For a good illustration of that, look at where Japanese universities are in the published rankings. Fewer Japanese universities today are on these lists.
答：日本的高等教育并没有真正成为培育国际化人才的摇篮。这一点能从日本大学在全球高校中的排名中看出。如今，榜上有名的日本大学越来越少了。
Strengthening universities would allow us to develop talents that better serve the needs of our industries. Individual universities may not be able to do it by themselves financially, so, the government and universities should share the strategy and work together.
加强高校建设能够让我们培养出更优秀的人才，更好地为我们的行业需求服务。大学本身可能没有足够财力去完成这个任务，因此，政府和大学应该共享策略，共同努力。
Q. What should they be doing to become more global? 
问：日本高校如何才能更加国际化？
A. We want Japanese universities to increase the number of international faculty, raise the number of classes conducted in English and introduce standardized tests like Toefl as a means to lift English skills. We also want to double the flow of students coming to Japan and those leaving Japan for overseas institutions.
答：我们希望日本大学能够增加海外教职工的人数、增加英语授课的课程数量，并且引进标准化测试作为提升学生英语技能的工具，如托福(Toefl)。我们也希望进入日本学习和离开日本接受国外教育的学生数量能增加一倍。
To that end we are providing greater subsidies to those universities that are serious about making changes.
为此，我们正在给那些认真寻求变革的大学提供更多的补助。
The Education Rebuilding Implementation Council stated in a recent report that “the delay in the globalization of Japanese universities is reaching a critical state.” Those are pretty strong words.
日本教育重建委员会(Education Rebuilding Implementation Council)在最近的报告中称：“日本大学国际化的延迟正达到临界状态。”措词十分强烈。
A. Japanese universities are like isolated ivory towers. Their refrain has long been ‘freedom of education and research,’ but you suddenly realize they have been unable to cope with today’s realities. Few are globally oriented, and few are in sync with the needs of today’s society at home.
答：日本的高校就像是与世隔绝的象牙塔。它们一直以来都倡导“教育和科研自由”，但人们突然意识到它们已经无法应对当今的现实。日本几乎没有大学是面向全球的，也很少有大学能与如今国内社会的需求相同步。
Q. What can be done more specifically to transform college education? 
问：要改变大学教育，可以采取哪些更具体的措施？
A. One important suggestion from the Council concerns the admissions test. Currently, university admissions revolve around having students take a one-time test — and that’s it. It is skewed toward knowledge building and rote learning.
答：委员会一个重要的建议跟招生考试有关。目前，学生们一考定终生，大学招生只围绕这一次考试——仅此而已。日本大学的入学考试过于片面地重视知识积累和死记硬背。
Basic knowledge is necessary in the real world, but what’s needed more are diverse talents, leadership skills and human empathy, as might be gleaned from extracurricular and volunteer activities during high school.
在现实世界里，基础知识是必要的。但是，学生更需要多元化的才能、领导能力和同理心，而这些能力可以通过中学期间的课外活动和志愿活动培养。
These are the kinds of abilities that we should be looking for as we prepare our youth for the globalized world.
当我们让年轻人为全球化的世界做准备时，我们应该寻找的是这些能力。
Q. Can you tell us about your son and how he ended up at a British university? 
问：可否谈谈你的儿子，以及他怎么会去英国大学读书的？
A. My son will graduate from the University of the Arts London this year with a fashion design degree. He got in because it was a British university; he probably would not have made it had he applied to a Japanese university.
答：我儿子今年将从伦敦艺术大学(University of the Arts London)毕业，并将拿到时尚设计的学位。他能被录取是因为那是一所英国大学，如果他申请的是一所日本大学，很可能就会被拒了。
To gain admission at a Japanese university you have to score well broadly in different subjects. Even if you are going into art or music, you have to pass the general subject tests and only after then will they evaluate your artistic capability.
要被日本的大学录取，你必须在所有不同学科获得优异成绩。即使你要读的是艺术或音乐专业，你也必须通过一般科目考试，只有在通过这些考试之后，他们才会评估你的艺术水平。
My son has difficulty reading, especially long texts, due to learning disorders. In Britain, if you excel in three subjects of your choosing in high school, you can get into top schools. I felt the British system is more open to a broader range of people and talents. I would like to see the system here be revamped so that avenues of opportunities will be open to all children.
由于学习障碍，我儿子阅读困难，尤其无法读长段内容。在英国，只要你在中学所选的科目中有三门课成绩优异，你就能进入一流学校。我觉得英国的高校系统更开放，招收学生和人才的范围更广。我希望看到日本高校系统的整改，让机会之路对所有孩子开放。
After all, considering where we want to go, it is less important for us to create 10,000 people with run-of-the mill capabilities than a few with superb talents.
毕竟，考虑到我们的目标，培养一些能力卓群的人才比培养1万个能力平平的公民要重要得多。
Q. Your panel has come up with many suggestions, including attracting more foreign experts. But recruiting highly paid international scholars might not sit well here. Are you sure that change will be acceptable, especially at state-funded universities where attitudes might be more conservative?
问：你的团队提出了许多建议，包括吸引更多的外国专家。但是高薪聘请国际学者的做法可能在日本并不十分受欢迎。在大学里，特别是态度更加保守的国立大学里，你确定这样的改变会被接受吗？
A. What we will do is assist those institutions that are willing to adapt and change. The traditional approach was to farm out subsidies in accordance with the size of the university, thus respecting its existing position and stature in higher education.
答：我们要做的是，协助那些愿意适应并做出改变的院校。我们传统的做法是根据一所大学的规模相应地分配补助，这么做是对它在高等教育体系中现有的位置和地位的尊重。
I’m aware that the idea of giving a salary to an outside scholar that exceeds the university president’s, for example, will not resonate well, generally speaking. So, we will be providing funds to where there is a will to change and adjust. We are not taking the conventional, ‘treat everyone the same’ approach.
我知道，一般来说，给外来学者支付超过大学校长的报酬会引起争议。因此，我们将会给那些愿意做出改变和调整的大学提供资金，而不会采取传统的“一碗水端平”的方式。