PUSAN, South Korea — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe may be about to take one of his biggest steps yet to nudge Japan away from its postwar pacifism after a government advisory panel recommended Thursday that constitutional restrictions on the military be eased to allow Japanese forces to come to the aid of allied nations under attack.
韩国釜山——周四，日本政府的一个顾问小组建议放松对日本军队的宪法限制，以允许日军援助受到攻击的盟国。有鉴于此，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)可能即将迈出他迄今为止力度最大的一步，推动日本摆脱战后奉行的和平主义路线。
The panel, which was appointed by the Abe government, called on Japan to adopt a new legal interpretation of its war-renouncing Constitution that would permit an expanded role for its military, the Self-Defense Forces. Those forces have been strictly limited to protecting Japan’s own territory and people since they were created soon after World War II.
由安倍政府任命的前述顾问小组呼吁日本对宣布放弃战争的宪法作出新的司法解释，由此允许名为“自卫队”的日本军队扩展职能。自卫队于二战结束后不久创立，其职能一直被严格限制在保护日本领土及民众的范围之内。
The reinterpretation would allow Japanese armed forces to act in limited cases even when Japan is not at risk, such as by shooting down a North Korean missile headed toward the United States, something it cannot legally do now. The proposed change would also allow Japanese forces to play a larger role in United Nations peacekeeping operations, the panel said. Though Japan has sent troops to peacekeeping operations since 1992, they act under severe constraints.
重新释法将允许日本的武装力量在有限情况下采取行动，哪怕日本本身并未面临威胁，比如击落飞向美国的朝鲜导弹，而这是目前的法律不允许日本采取的行动。该小组表示，他们提议的变更还将允许日本军队在联合国(United Nations)维和行动中发挥更大作用。1992年以来，日本一直在派遣部队参与维和行动，但日本部队的行动受到了严格的限制。
If accepted, it would represent a fundamental shift in the stance of Japan’s military.
如果提议被接纳，这将意味着日本的军事立场发生了根本性的转变。
While Mr. Abe immediately voiced his support, the recommendations will now be debated within his governing coalition, where they face opposition from a small Buddhist party. That makes it unclear whether the proposals would be watered down before they could be adopted by the cabinet.
虽然安倍晋三立即表示了支持，该提议目前仍须由他手下的执政联盟进行讨论，并且面临联盟内一个小型佛教政党的反对。正因如此，目前尚不清楚，该提议是否会在交由内阁批准之前遭到弱化。
Polls have also shown broad opposition in Japan, with many people concerned that the nationalistic Mr. Abe could use the proposed changes as a step toward dismantling Japan’s postwar Constitution and its rejection of war.
民意调查也显示日本社会在这一问题上存在巨大分歧，许多人都担心，奉行民族主义路线的安倍晋三会利用这项变更提议，进一步走向废除日本战后宪法及其反战立场的目标。
“This will stretch Article 9 beyond reasonable and logical limits,” said Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo, referring to the part of the Constitution that renounces war as a means of resolving disputes. “A lot of us are worried because this will not only negate Article 9, but the Constitution itself.”
“这会让宪法第九条脱离合理的逻辑限制。”东京上智大学(Sophia University)政治学家中野晃一(Koichi Nakano)说，他指的是关于放弃把战争作为争端解决手段的宪法条款。“我们当中的许多人都感到担忧，因为这不仅会让第九条失效，还会让宪法本身失效。”
Mr. Abe said the changes were needed to enable Japan to respond to an increasingly assertive China and a nuclear-armed North Korea by building closer security ties with the United States and forming military alliances with democratic nations like Australia and India. He also rejected criticism that the changes would drag Japan into conflict.
安倍晋三表示，日本必须作出这些改变，这样才能与美国建立更紧密的安全纽带，与澳大利亚、印度等民主国家组建军事联盟，以便应对日渐强硬的中国和拥有核武的朝鲜。他还驳斥了这些改变会把日本拖入冲突的批评。
In a televised speech, Mr. Abe also said that a stronger military would help ensure the peace by allowing Japan to defend itself, and contribute to regional stability, a doctrine that he has called “proactive pacifism.”
在电视讲话中，安倍晋三还表示，一支更强的军队会让日本获得自卫的能力，有助于确保和平，也有助于地区稳定。他将这种思路成为“积极的和平主义”。
“There is a misunderstanding that Japan will once again become a country that wages war, but I absolutely reject this,” he said. “I will protect the principle of pacifism in the Constitution. By increasing our deterrence, our country will be able to avoid becoming caught up in war.”
“人们有一种误解，认为日本会再次成为一个发动战争的国家，但我绝对不接受这种说法，”他说，“我会保护宪法中的和平主义原则。通过增强威慑力，我们的国家将有能力避免卷入战争。”
The proposal follows steps by Mr. Abe that supporters say aim to bolster Japan’s security posture, but that critics say are also increasing the strength of the national government, something many Japanese have been wary of since their disastrous experience with military-led authoritarianism in World War II.
该提议出台之前，安倍晋三采取了一些举措，支持者称这些举措旨在增强日本的安全保障，批评人士则称此类举措同时增强了中央政府的力量，很多日本人都对此持谨慎态度，因为他们有过二战时期军事独裁的惨痛经历。
Since taking office in December 2012, Mr. Abe has pushed through an unpopular law to strengthen control of state secrets, created an American-style National Security Council and lifted Japan’s self-imposed restrictions on exporting weapons. In Europe this month, Mr. Abe agreed with the leaders of France and Britain to develop military equipment jointly.
自2012年12月执政以来，安倍晋三强力促成了一项不受欢迎的法律来加强对国家机密的控制，创立了美国式的国家安全委员会，并且取消了日本自己施加的武器出口限制。本月，安倍晋三在欧洲与法国及英国的领导人达成一致，决定共同研发军事装备。
A reinterpretation of the Constitution would go much further, allowing Japanese forces to act more like a “normal” military. To do this, the panel of academics called for embracing a legal concept called “collective self-defense” that views protecting an ally as an act of self-defense, which they said is permitted under the current Constitution.
重新解释宪法会是一个力度大得多的步骤，将允许日本军队采用更像“正常”军队的行动方式。为了达成这一目标，由学者组成的前述小组呼吁人们接受“集体自卫”的法律观念，将保护盟友的举措看作自卫行为。他们称，现行宪法与这种观念并不矛盾。
Political experts also said Mr. Abe may see collective self-defense as a way of preparing the public for scrapping Japan’s pacifist Constitution, which he calls an outdated document written by postwar American occupiers. But with polls showing public opinion firmly against altering the Constitution, experts said Mr. Abe had appeared to settle, at least for now, on reinterpreting it.
政治专家还表示，安倍晋三可能是把集体自卫看成了让民众接受废弃日本和平主义宪法决定的途径，他称该宪法是由二战后的美国占领者拟定的过时文件。但专家表示，鉴于民调显示公众坚决反对修改宪法，安倍晋三似乎已满足于重新解释宪法，至少目前是这样。