TOKYO — As recently as five years ago, a Japanese prime minister was in Hawaii for an economic summit meeting, but pointedly stayed away from Pearl Harbor.
东京——就在五年前，日本首相前往夏威夷参加了经济峰会，但与珍珠港保持着刻意的距离。
In the coming week, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will fly to Hawaii to visit the site of the surprise attack on a United States naval base 75 years ago that killed 2,400 Americans and drew the country into World War II.
在接下来的一周里，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)将飞往夏威夷，访问75年前日本突袭过的美国海军基地。那次行动造成了2400名美国人丧生，并将美国拉入了第二次世界大战。
It is a sign of how far public opinion in Japan has moved that Abe can make the trip to the memorial, accompanied by President Barack Obama, to offer condolences to the victims.
这是一个迹象，显示日本的舆论出现了多么大的变化，让安倍得以在奥巴马总统陪同下前往纪念馆，向受害者表示哀悼。
Japan has struggled to reckon with its wartime history, and the Pearl Harbor attack has been cast as a tragic but inevitable response to a U.S.-led oil embargo that would have devastated the Japanese imperial empire.
日本对待二战历史的态度一直充满纠结，突袭珍珠港被描述成一个悲剧，但它是不可避免的，因为美国领导的石油禁运会毁了当时的日本帝国。
Because of domestic political opposition, it has been all but impossible for Japanese leaders to visit Pearl Harbor until now. In 1994, when Emperor Akihito tried to visit the memorial, protests from Japan’s nationalist right wing prompted him to alter his plans.
由于国内政治反对派的阻挠，日本领导人访问珍珠港本来一直是不可能的事情。1994年，明仁天皇曾试图访问该纪念馆，但日本民族主义右翼的抗议迫使他改变了行程。
But after Abe, who is a conservative politician with strong ties to nationalist groups, announced his plans, the reception in Japan was largely positive.
但在安倍晋三宣布了自己的计划后，日本国内的反应基本上是支持的。安倍晋三是一名保守派，同民族主义团体渊源深厚。
“The younger generation knows the term Pearl Harbor, but they don’t know much about it,” said Katsutoshi Chujo, a middle school history teacher near Tokyo. “Most young people don’t know much about the war.”
“年轻一代知道珍珠港这个词，但不大知道详情，”东京附近的初中历史老师中条克敏（Katsutoshi Chujo，音）说。“大部分年轻人对那场战争知之甚少。”
The Japanese public is also aware of the importance of a symbolic visit to Pearl Harbor at a time of uncertainty in its country’s relationship with the United States.
日本民众也知道在自己国家与美国关系充满不确定性之际，象征性地访问珍珠港的重要意义。
Although the premier’s visit to Pearl Harbor was in the planning stages before the U.S. presidential election, Donald Trump’s win scared Japanese leaders because he had spent time on the campaign trail castigating Japan for not paying enough for its own defense. When Obama made a visit to Hiroshima in May, Trump posted on Twitter: “Does President Obama ever discuss the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor while he’s in Japan? Thousands of American lives lost.”
尽管安倍晋三访问珍珠港一事在美国大选前就已在计划中，但唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的胜选也的确令日本领导人感到害怕，因为在竞选期间，他严厉指责日本没有为自己的防务承担足够的费用。奥巴马5月访问广岛时，特朗普在Twitter上发帖称：“奥巴马总统在日本期间讨论过珍珠港被偷袭一事吗？数千名美国人牺牲。”
Abe is not expected to apologize for the attacks, much as Obama did not apologize for the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. Instead, Abe will most likely repeat the repentance and condolences he offered in April 2015 when he addressed Congress.
安倍晋三预计不会为相关袭击道歉，就像奥巴马未就原子弹轰炸广岛一事道歉一样。相反，他极有可能重复2015年4月在美国国会发表演讲时使用的那些表示悔悟和慰问的话语。