TOKYO — Japan’s conservative prime minister, Shinzo Abe, sent a message of support earlier this year to a ceremony honoring more than 1,000 Japanese who died after being convicted as war criminals following World War II, a government spokesman said Wednesday. The move could further worsen disputes with China over history.
东京——日本内阁官方长官周三表示，保守派首相安倍晋三今年早些时候发出信息，对一个纪念1000多名第二次世界大战后被判有罪的日本人的仪式表示支持。此举可能会进一步恶化日本与中国的历史争端问题。
Mr. Abe wrote in the message, sent to the ceremony held on April 29 at the Koyasan temple in western Japan, that the convicted war criminals had “sacrificed their souls to become the foundation of the fatherland,” according to a news report that first appeared in the Asahi Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper.
安倍晋三在发给4月29日在日本西部的高野山寺庙举行的仪式的信息中写道，那些被定罪的战犯“牺牲了他们的灵魂，为祖国奠定了基础，”据一条最先出现在日本一家主要报纸《朝日新闻》上的新闻报道称。
The spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, confirmed the report, saying that Mr. Abe had sent the message not in his public capacity as prime minister but as a private citizen, signing his name as the head of the governing Liberal Democratic Party. The report said the message was read aloud at the ceremony, which Mr. Abe did not attend.
政府发言人、内阁官房长官须贺良英证实了报道，他说，安倍晋三不是以首相的公开身份发送的信息，而是以一个普通公民的身份，他签名用的是执政的自民党总裁的名义。前述报道称，在那个安倍没有出席的仪式上，他所发的信息被宣读。
The ceremony, which is held annually but is not well known in Japan, honors 1,180 Japanese who were executed or died in prison after being convicted of war crimes by Allied tribunals. The tribunals, which were held across Asia after the war, convicted the Japanese soldiers for crimes such as the massacre and rape of civilians and the killing of Allied prisoners of war.
这个每年一次的仪式，在日本并不广为人知，它纪念1,180名日本人，这些人在被盟军军事法庭判定犯有战争罪行后被处死、或死于狱中。二战结束后，日本军人在亚洲的几个军事法庭上被定罪，罪行包括屠杀平民、强奸，以及屠杀盟军战俘。
The ceremony’s organizers share a view held by many on Japan’s right that the tribunals wrongfully convicted the men in rulings that amounted to nothing more than victor’s justice. The ceremony was held before a monument that identified the convicted war criminals as “Showa martyrs.” Showa is another name for the late Emperor Hirohito, in whose name the war was waged.
该仪式的组织者与许多日本右翼人士持同一种观点，他们认为，军事法庭对那些人的判决是错误的，那只不过是胜利者的正义而已。仪式在一个纪念碑前举行，那些被判有罪的战犯在纪念碑上被称为“昭和殉难者”。昭和是已故裕仁天皇的年号，日本的侵略战争是以他的名义发动的。
On Wednesday, the spokesman, Mr. Suga, tried to distance his government from those views, saying that Japan accepted the Allied judgments when it signed the San Francisco Peace Treaty in 1952 to officially end the war.
发言人须贺良英在周三试图让其政府与上述观点保持距离，他说，日本在1952年签署旧金山和平条约，正式结束战争时，接受了盟军的判决。
While Mr. Abe’s message to the ceremony appeared carefully worded, he has in the past openly questioned whether Japan was actually the aggressor during the war. In a parliamentary budget committee hearing last year, he said only Japanese were condemned of war crimes in the Pacific war because the victorious Allies were able to impose their view of the war.
虽然安倍晋三给仪式发的信息看来措辞谨慎，但他过去曾公开质疑，日本在战争中是否是实际上的侵略者。在议会预算委员会去年的听证会上，他说，只有日本被谴责在太平洋战争中犯下战争罪，那是因为胜利的盟军能够把其对战争的看法强加于人。
Such sentiments have made him the target of criticism by China, a victim of Japan’s wartime empire-building that has accused Mr. Abe of trying to exonerate Japanese militarism. While China did not immediately respond to the report Wednesday, it has lashed out in the past when Mr. Abe has made gestures that it saw as demonstrating a lack of remorse for the war.
这种观念让他成为中国批评的对象，中国是日本二战期间帝国主义行为的受害者，曾指责安倍晋三试图要复活日本的军国主义。虽然中国没有马上对周三的报道作出回应，但在过去，每当安倍晋三做出中国认为表现出缺乏战争反省的姿态时，都会给予强烈抨击。
Its most recent criticism came on Aug. 15, the anniversary of the war’s end in 1945, when Mr. Abe sent a donation to the Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo honoring Japanese war dead, including 14 leaders convicted of crimes against humanity. A Chinese government spokeswoman responded by calling on Japan to face up to its history.
最近的一次是在8月15日，1945年战争结束的周年之际，当时安倍晋三给纪念日本战争亡灵的东京靖国神社捐了款，那里供奉的战死者包括14个被判犯有反人类罪的战时领导人。中国政府发言人的回应，是要求日本正视自己的历史。