OFF THE COAST OF FUKUSHIMA, Japan — Twelve miles out to sea from the severely damaged and leaking nuclear reactors at Fukushima, a giant floating wind turbine signals the start of Japan’s most ambitious bet yet on clean energy.
日本福岛沿岸——距离福岛严重受损并已在泄露的核反应堆12英里（约合19公里）的海上，漂浮着一台巨大的风力涡轮机，它象征着日本已开始投下该国迄今在清洁能源上最具雄心的赌注。
When this 350-foot-tall windmill is switched on next month, it will generate enough electricity to power 1,700 homes. Unremarkable, perhaps, but consider the goal of this offshore project: to generate over 1 gigawatt of electricity from 140 wind turbines by 2020. That is equivalent to the power generated by a nuclear reactor.
等到这个高达350英尺的风车在下个月启动后，它的发电量将能够供应1700个家庭。这或许听上去没什么，但想想这项离岸工程的目标吧：到2020年前，通过140台风力涡轮机发出超过1000兆瓦的电量。这相当于一个核反应堆的发电量。
The project’s backers say that offshore windmills could be a breakthrough for this energy-poor nation. They would enable Japan to use a resource it possesses in abundance: its coastline, which is longer than that of the United States. With an exclusive economic zone — an area up to 200 miles from its shores where Japan has first dibs on any resources — that ranks it among the world’s top 10 largest maritime countries, Japan has millions of square miles to position windmills.
该项目的投资者表示，离岸风车可能会给这个能源匮乏的国家带来突破。这些风车将使日本能够利用它所拥有的一项丰富资源——该国的海岸线，其长度超过了美国的海岸线。日本所拥有的专属经济区（从日本最先涉足资源开发的海岸算起，不超过200英里的区域内）使其成为世界十大海洋国家之一，拥有数百万平方英里的地方来放置风车。
The project is also a bid to seize the initiative in an industry expected to double over the next five years to a global capacity of 536 gigawatts, according to the industry trade group Global Wind Energy Council. The Japanese have lagged at wind turbine manufacturing, which is dominated by European and Chinese makers.
产业贸易组织全球风能理事会(Global Wind Energy Council)表示，该项目也是一次想要在风能产业抢占先机的努力，预计接下来五年，这一产业的全球产能有望翻番，达到536千兆瓦。在这个由欧洲和中国制造商主导的行业，日本的风力涡轮机制造是相对落后的。
The Japanese government is paying the 22 billion yen, or $226 million, cost of building the first three wind turbines off Fukushima, part of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s push to make renewable energy a pillar of his economic growth program. After that, a consortium of 11 companies, including Hitachi, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Shimizu and Marubeni, plan to commercialize the project.
日本政府出资220亿日元（约合13.7亿元人民币），承担部署在福岛海域的前三台风力涡轮机的建造成本，而这也是首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)将可再生能源打造成经济增长计划重要支柱的一方面体现。此后，包括日立(Hitachi)、三菱重工(Mitsubishi Heavy Industries)、清水建设(Shimizu)以及丸红株式会社(Marubeni)在内的11家公司组成的联营企业打算将其商业化。
“It’s Japan’s biggest hope,” said Hideo Imamura, a spokesman for Shimizu, during a recent trip to the turbine ahead of its test run. “It’s an all-Japan effort, almost 100 percent Japan-made.”
清水建设的发言人今村秀夫(Hideo Imamura)近日前往考察即将试运行的涡轮机，他说，“这是日本最大的希望，它是日本独立开展的项目，几乎是百分之百的日本制造。”
What sets the project apart from other offshore wind farms around the world, consortium officials say, is that its turbines, and even the substation and electrical transformer equipment, float on giant platforms anchored to the seabed. That technology greatly expands potential locations for offshore wind farms, which have been fixed into the seabed, limiting their location to shallow waters.
联营企业官员表示，这个项目与全球各地其他离岸风力发电场不同之处在于，它的风力涡轮机、甚至其变电站和电力变压器设备都浮在一个固定于海床上的巨大平台之上。风力发电场此前一直是固定在海床上的，因此只能建在浅水区，而这种技术极大地拓展了建设离岸风力发电厂的选址范围。
For this reason, there have been few great sites for offshore wind farming in Japan, which lies on a continental shelf that quickly gives way to depths that make it unfeasible to build structures into the seabed. But floating wind farms could change the picture in a big way.
如果仅限于浅水区，那么日本几乎没有适合建离岸风力发电场的地方，它所倚靠的大陆架很多地方太深，不适合在海床上修建设备。但漂浮的风力发电场能在很大程度上改变这一状况。
Harnessing wind in deeper waters off Japan could generate as much as 1,570 gigawatts of electricity, roughly eight times the current capacity of all of Japan’s power companies combined, according to computer simulations based on historical weather data by researchers at Tokyo University, one of the project’s main participants.
来自东京大学的研究人员是该项目的骨干力量之一，他们根据天气历史数据进行的电脑模拟，结果显示，在日本深海利用风能发电将能产生高达1570千兆瓦的电量，约为日本所有电力公司目前总发电量的八倍。
Japan has been forced to look more seriously at renewable power after its multiple nuclear meltdowns at Fukushima in 2011. All Japan’s 50 reactors are currently down, awaiting inspections aimed at reducing local fears over nuclear energy and depriving the country of a power source that once provided close to 30 percent of its electricity.
2011年福岛发生多起核心熔毁事故后，日本被迫开始更认真地考虑可再生能源。目前，日本所有50个核反应堆都已被关闭等候检查，以缓解当地居民对核能源的担忧，而日本也因此失去了一个曾为其提供了30%的所需电力的来源。
The subsequent jump in oil and gas imports to Japan has not only underscored the country’s crippling energy dependence, but has also exposed how it has lagged its peers in developing renewable energy sources. Contrary to Japan’s reputation for being on the cutting edge of green technology, its adoption of renewable energy has been slow. Excluding hydropower, less than 3 percent of the electricity it generates came from renewable energy sources in 2011.
随后，日本石油和天然气进口出现激增。这不仅突显了日本严重的能源依赖缺陷，也暴露了它在开发可再生能源方面同其他国家之间的差距。尽管有着绿色技术领先的声誉，日本对可再生能源的使用一直很缓慢。除了水电，日本2011年发电总量中，只有不到3%的电来自可再生能源。
In an effort to catch up, Japan last year introduced an incentive program to diversify its energy sources. In the program’s first 12 months, through June, the country added 3.6 gigawatts of capacity powered by renewable sources, equal to the output of nearly four nuclear reactors, the Trade Ministry said last week.
为了迎头赶上，日本去年推行了一个旨在实现能源来源的多元化的激励项目。，经济产业省(Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry)上周称，截至6月，在实施该项目的头12个月里，可再生能源让日本增加了3.6亿千瓦的发电能力，几乎相当于四个反应堆的发电能力。
Solar power has accounted for most of the clean energy capacity added to Japan. Growth of solar projects is limited, however. Instead, over nine-tenths of Japan’s potential capacity to generate clean energy comes from wind energy, especially those placed offshore, according to estimates from the Environment Ministry.
日本增加的清洁能源发电能力中，大部分都是太阳能带来的。然而，太阳能项目的增加很有限。相反，据环境省(Environment Ministry)的估计，日本的清洁能源发电潜能有九成以上来自风能，尤其是那些位于海上的风力发电厂。
Norway and Portugal are also experimenting with small-scale, floating wind farms, but Japan’s project is set to be the largest and among the earliest to commercialize the technology.
挪威和葡萄牙也正在对小规模的海上风力发电场进行试验。但日本这个项目将是全球最大的，也将是最早将这项技术商业化的项目之一。
The biggest challenge for the Fukushima project comes from local fishermen, who have not been able to fish since the disaster and who fear that the project will take away their fishing grounds. Trawlers, in particular, would no longer be able to operate around the farm. On the other hand, there are hopes that the giant chains that anchor the turbines to the seabed will eventually encourage colonies of fish and seaweed.
福岛项目面临的最大挑战来自当地的渔民。自灾难发生后便一直不能捕鱼的渔民担心，这个项目会抢走他们捕鱼区。拖网渔船尤其无法在发电场周围作业。但另一方面，有人认为，将涡轮机固定在海底的巨链最终会有利于形成鱼类和海藻聚集地。
Fishing cooperatives in the area have agreed only to the three test turbines so far, and the 100 more planned in the area need to be renegotiated once the impact on fisheries in the area becomes clearer.
截至目前，该地区的渔业合作社只同意安装三台涡轮机进行试验。一旦对该地区渔业的影响变得更明显，就必须重新就另外计划安装在该地区的100台涡轮机举行谈判。
“All we can say is that we will wait and see,” said Masanori Ono, 63, a fisherman who has worked in waters off Fukushima for over four decades. He now spends much of his time ferrying workers and guests to and from the wind farm.
“我们只能说会等等看，”63岁的渔民小野正纪（Masanori Ono，音译）说。他已经在福岛附近的水域工作了40多年。现在他的很多时间用在摆渡去风力发电场的工人和游客。
Cost is another big issue. Building the first three turbines off Fukushima — each with a different design — comes to about 2 million yen, or about $20,000 a kilowatt, about eight times as much as the cost of building a wind turbine on land. With increasing economies of scale and design improvements, the consortium says it hopes to bring that cost down to about twice the cost of land-based turbines.
另一个大问题是成本。福岛附近水域头三台涡轮机的设计各不相同，竖起这三台涡轮机的成本约为每亿千瓦200万日元，大致相当于2万美元，是在陆地上竖起一台风力涡轮机的成本的八倍左右。联合企业表示，随着规模经济的增加和设计的改进，他们有望将相关成本降低至陆基涡轮机的两倍左右。
Durability is the third large question mark. Shimizu, the construction company, says the turbine’s blades have been designed to last at least two decades, and to withstand the biggest typhoons to have hit the region over the last half-century. But Mr. Imamura at Shimizu acknowledges that no one is certain how long, or how well, the turbines will hold up.
第三个大问题是寿命。建筑公司清水建设说，涡轮机叶片的设计寿命至少是20年，且要能经受住该地区过去半个世纪出现过的最强台风。但清水建设公司的今村承认，没人确切地知道这些涡轮机能坚持多长时间，或者能有怎样的表现。
Still, momentum is building for the project, and not entirely for energy reasons. Offshore wind generation involves many of the industries that Japan is desperate to revive, from shipbuilding, which has lost out to rivals in China and South Korea in recent years, to heavy machinery, construction, batteries, electronics and advanced materials like the carbon fiber-reinforced polymers used in the turbine’s blades.
但项目正在赢得人们的支持，且不完全是出于能源考虑。海上风力发电涉及日本迫切希望振兴的多个行业，从已在近些年输给了中国和韩国竞争对手的造船业，到重型机械、建筑、电池、电子以及像涡轮机叶片用到的碳纤维增强聚合物这样的新材料。