TOKYO – The used-car dealers that dot the outskirts of Tokyo and other Japanese cities are an unlikely link between one of Japan’s biggest banks and the country’s yakuza gangsters.
东京——分布在东京及日本其他城市郊区的二手车经销商们出人意料地成了日本一家最大银行和日本“野寇崽”黑帮犯罪团伙之间的中间环节。
On Monday, the banking unit of the Mizuho Financial Group released the results of an internal investigation that outlined how such dealers, through a consumer finance company affiliated with Mizuho, made at least $2 million in small loans to buyers with links to Japan’s organized crime syndicates without properly vetting their backgrounds. The syndicates use the loans to help finance their activities.
周一， 瑞穗金融集团(Mizuho Financial Group)旗下的银行部门发布了一项内部调查结果，其中简要介绍了此类经销商通过瑞穗下属的一家消费者金融公司，向与日本有组织犯罪集团有联系的买家发放了至少200万美元的小额贷款，但没有对买家背景进行应有的调查。这些贷款被黑帮团伙用来从事犯罪活动。
Mizuho Bank, which bought and bundled these loans from its affiliate, found gangster-linked loans on its books in 2010 but failed to inform the authorities, according to a report by outside lawyers appointed by the bank to investigate the case.
瑞穗银行从子公司那里购买和打包了这些贷款。受该银行委托调查此案的外部律师出具的一份报告显示，瑞穗银行在2010年的账目上发现了与黑帮团伙相关的贷款，但是没有通知管理部门。
But the lawyers said they could find no evidence that Mizuho officials intentionally tried to hide the loans from investigators.
但律师表示，他们没有发现证明瑞穗的管理人员有意对调查者隐瞒这些贷款的证据。
Mizuho’s management instead simply “failed to appreciate the gravity of collaborating with organized crime,” Hideki Nakagomi, who headed the panel of lawyers, said on Monday. He acknowledged that many officials at the bank had told the investigators “they did not remember what happened.”
律师小组的负责人中込秀树(Hideki Nakagomi)周一说，瑞穗的管理团队只是未能充分意识到与有组织犯罪团伙合作的严重性。他承认，银行的许多管理人员告诉调查者，“他们不记得发生了什么”。
Mizuho, based in Tokyo, announced late on Monday that its president and chief executive, Yasuhiro Sato, would keep his job, though he and 53 other current and past executives will take a pay cut for up to six months. Mr. Sato also serves as president and chief executive of the bank’s parent, the Mizuho Financial Group.
总部位于东京的瑞穗银行周一晚间宣布，公司社长、首席执行官佐藤康博(Yasuhiro Sato)将继续任职，不过他和53名现任及前任高管将会遭受最多六个月的降薪。佐藤康博还担任银行的母公司瑞穗金融集团的社长和首席执行官。
“I apologize from the bottom of my heart,” Mr. Sato said at a news conference, bowing deeply in front of cameras. “I take very seriously the fact that we find ourselves in this situation.”
佐藤康博在一个新闻发布会上说，“我从心底里表示歉意。我们意识到了自己的这种处境，我对此非常重视。”他同时在镜头前深深地鞠躬。
The group’s chairman, Takashi Tsukamoto, who plays a mostly advisory role at Mizuho, will step down.
该机构的董事长冢本隆史(Takashi Tsukamoto)将离职。他在瑞穗主要扮演顾问的角色。
The scandal has done little damage to the company’s stock, which actually rose 2.45 percent on Monday after news of the report.
该丑闻对公司的股票几乎没有产生影响，在有关该报告的消息传出后，该公司股票周一上涨了2.45%。
The shady lending came to light after the Japanese banking regulator, the Financial Services Agency, censured Mizuho last month over its handling of the loans. The loans underscore how organized crime groups continue to draw money from the financial system here despite efforts to shut them out.
在日本银行监管机构日本金融厅(Financial Services Agency)上个月批评了瑞穗处理相关贷款的方式之后，这些隐秘的贷款浮出水面。这些贷款突显出，尽管采取了将有组织犯罪团伙拒之门外的措施，这些团伙却仍在从日本的金融系统中获得资金。
Used-car loans have long been known to be part of illicit fund-raising schemes run by gangsters. In one often-used method, gang members conspire with a dealer to buy a car — like a slick, black Mercedes-Benz of the type favored by gangsters here — for a far higher amount than the usual asking price, then apply for a used-car loan to cover the inflated price. The scheme gives gangsters access to easy financing; the car can be sold or fitted with new license plates so it can be used to apply for further loans, according to local news reports.
如外界所知，二手车贷款一直是黑帮团伙非法获取资金的一种途径。一个常用的方法是，黑帮成员与一名经销商合谋，从经销商那里购买一辆汽车——比如日本黑帮团伙喜欢的那种漂亮的黑色梅赛德斯-奔驰汽车(Mercedes-Benz)——价钱要比通常的要价高得多，然后为高出的部分申请二手车贷款。日本的新闻报道说，这个计划让黑帮很容易获得融资；车可以被卖掉或者换上新的车牌，这样就可以用来申请更多贷款。
Members of organized crime groups are not supposed to have such access to financing from big banks like Mizuho as a result of a 1991 law that made money-laundering illegal. Since then, the Japanese authorities have bolstered rules requiring that banks more vigorously scrutinize potential clients to check for any ties to organized crime. Mizuho said its loan officials typically checked applications against its nationwide database of known members of organized crime groups and their associates.
有组织犯罪团伙的成员本不应该拥有从瑞穗等大银行融资的渠道，因为1991年的一部法律规定，洗钱属于违法行为。从那以后，日本有关部门加强了相关规定，要求银行更积极地审查潜在客户，以确认其是否与有组织犯罪有关。瑞穗说，负责贷款的工作人员一般将申请资料与全国已知的有组织犯罪团伙成员及其亲友的数据库进行对比。
But the auto loans in question, about 230 transactions totaling about $2 million, were made by the Orient Corporation, a much smaller consumer financing company affiliated with Mizuho that carried out far less stringent background checks on potential buyers, the report from the outside panel said. Last week, an investigation by the daily Mainichi Shimbun said used-car loans from Orient, known as Orico, were typically approved in about 15 minutes with minimal identification checks that were conducted by fax.
但是这份报告显示，本文提到的汽车贷款——价值总计200万美元左右的大约230笔交易——是由Orient Corporation发放的。Orient Corporation是一个规模小得多的消费者融资公司，隶属于瑞穗集团，该公司对潜在客户的背景调查要宽松得多。上周，日报《每日新闻》(Mainichi Shimbun)进行的一份调查称，Orient Corporation，即Orico，发放的二手车贷款一般15分钟左右就可以被批准，只是通过传真机进行最简单的身份核实。
Mizuho periodically bought up bundles of these loans from Orico and did not stringently check each loan, the report said. When some gangster-linked loans came to light during a routine internal inspection, Mizuho instructed Orico not to give further loans to those gangsters. But it did not cut off existing loans or inform the authorities.
报告说，瑞穗定期从Orico那里打包购买这些贷款，而且没有严格地检查每笔贷款。当一些与黑帮犯罪团伙有联系的贷款在常规的内部审核中浮出水面时，瑞穗要求Orico不要再给这些黑帮团伙贷款。但是没有切断现有的贷款或是通知有关部门。
The bank initially said that knowledge of the matter went only as far as the bank’s compliance officers but later acknowledged that Mr. Sato and other members of Mizuho’s board had been aware.
这家银行一开始声称，对这件事的了解仅限于银行的合规人员，但是后来承认，佐藤康博和瑞穗董事会的其他成员同样知情。
Still, the report put the bank’s hesitance down to a mistake and not an intentional cover-up. Mizuho has not been fined, though regulators have come under pressure from experts and the media to punish the bank with penalties. Some lawmakers have called on Mr. Sato to testify in Parliament.
尽管如此，报告将银行的不作为总结为是一个错误，而不是刻意的掩盖。瑞穗没有被课以罚款，不过监管机构已经受到了来自专家和媒体的压力，人们要求对这家银行实施处罚。一些议员已经要求佐藤康博来国会出席听证会。
Analysts attribute much of the scandal to confusion and disorganization within Mizuho, affecting its handling of the loans. The Mizuho Financial Group, created 13 years ago from mergers during the final years of Japan’s financial crisis, has been riddled with factions and infighting.
分析人士认为，这次丑闻很大一部分要归因于瑞穗内部的信息不明朗和结构混乱，这影响了其对贷款的处理。瑞穗金融集团创办于13年前，由几家公司在日本金融危机中最后几年合并而成，一直受到派系和内斗的困扰。
Its internal discord came to light in 2002, when widespread computer malfunctions crippled its network of automated teller machines and disrupted or delayed at least 2.5 million transactions. The bank attributed those problems to poor integration of the information technology systems used by its legacy banks, the Dai-Ichi Kango Bank, Fuji Bank and the Industrial Bank of Japan.
银行内部的不和状况在2002年浮出水面，当时，由于大范围的计算机故障，银行的自动柜员机网络瘫痪，并导致至少250万笔交易被中断或者延迟。银行将这些问题归因于被合并银行的信息技术系统整合不力，这些银行包括第一劝业银行(Dai-Ichi Kango Bank)、富士银行(Fuji Bank)和日本兴业银行(Industrial Bank of Japan)。
The report on Monday from the lawyers’ panel found that the constant infighting, plus another A.T.M. shutdown after the 2011 tsunami and nuclear disaster, diverted the bank’s attention away from dealing appropriately with loans to gangsters.
律师小组周一的报告发现，持续的内斗，加上2011年海啸和核事故之后自动柜员机的再次崩溃，让这家银行无瑕对黑帮团伙贷款做出妥善处理。
“There was a failure of governance at the bank, and much of that seemed to come down to a culture of bad relations inside the bank left over from its merger,” said Nobukatsu Ono, an assistant professor of management and economics at Kaetsu University in Tokyo.
“银行存在管理问题，而这很大程度上似乎要归因于并购后银行内部产生的一种各方关系极不和谐的文化，”位于东京的嘉悦大学(Kaetsu University)研究管理和经济的副教授小野展克(Nobukatsu Ono)说。
Professor Ono also said the case showed the still-murky ties between lesser-known names in Japanese finance and the criminal underworld. In 2009, Shinginko Tokyo, a bank set up by the city’s municipal government to finance small and midsize businesses, collapsed after many of its loans were found to have been made to organized crime.
小野展克还说，这个案件表明，日本金融界内一些较小机构同地下犯罪集团间至今仍存在见不得光的联系。2009年，由东京市政府建立、为中小企业融资的新银行东京(Shinginko Tokyo)倒闭，此前有人发现它有多项贷款流向了有组织犯罪团伙。
“I’d like to think that those ties are no longer prevalent at Japan’s biggest banks,” he said. “But that’s less clear elsewhere, for example at consumer credit companies like Orico.”
“我愿意相信，在日本的大型银行里，这样的联系已不普遍，”小野展克说。“但在其他地方，比如Orico等消费者信贷公司，情况却并没有这么明朗。
Mizuho promised on Monday to step up its vigilance against doing business with mobsters, saying it would share its detailed client databases with affiliates like Orico. Other banks in Japan have said they will take similar steps.
瑞穗银行在周一承诺将设立警戒机制，防止同犯罪集团进行业务往来，并表示将同Orico等附属机构分享其详细的客户数据库。日本的其他银行也表示将采取类似措施。
Taro Aso, who heads Japan’s Finance Ministry and financial regulator, said officials would study Mizuho’s plans to improve its governance — submitted to the ministry on Monday — before deciding on any further administrative penalties.
日本财务大臣和金融担当大臣麻生太郎(Taro Aso)说，官方将研究瑞穗银行改善管理的计划——瑞穗于周一将计划提交至财务省——然后再就对瑞穗采取进一步行政处罚做出决定。
“It’s an extremely big problem that the outside panel has said there were relations with antisocial forces,” Mr. Aso said, using a euphemism for organized crime. “We must make sure that kind of thing does not happen. It’s the worst thing a bank can do.”
“外界专家小组称银行和反社会势力有联系，这是个极其严重的问题，”麻生太郎说，他用了委婉的说法代指有组织犯罪。“我们务必确保这样的事情不再发生。这是银行所能做的最糟糕的事情了。”