TOKYO — The loose change in Yusa Nishimura’s purse could be undermining Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic recovery plan for Japan.
东京——西村由佐（Yusa Nishimura，音译）包里零钱的多少可能正影响着首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)为日本提出的经济复苏计划。
As often as she can, Ms. Nishimura tucks away 500-yen coins, worth a little under $5. Ms. Nishimura, 23, even has a folder that displays them so Japan’s highest-denomination coins are easier to count.
西村总会尽可能地存下所有的500圆硬币——价值不足30元人民币，是日本面值最高的硬币。23岁的西村甚至将它们排列展示在一个文件夹里，这样一来数起来更方便。
Cash nest eggs like Ms. Nishimura’s made sense in slow-growing Japan, where during 15 years of deflation her money was worth more as time went on. The spa getaway she planned to splurge on was likely to get cheaper if she waited longer.
在增长缓慢的日本，像西村这种囤积现金的做法是有道理的。在15年的通货紧缩期中，随着时间的推移，西村的钱越来越有价值。她一直计划花钱去温泉度个假，但如果她再等一等，价格可能会更低。
But as Mr. Abe faces pressure to show results in his fight to lead Japan out of deflation, he is urging cash hoarders like Ms. Nishimura to change their modest mind-sets — for the economy’s sake, as well as for their own.
但是就在安倍努力领导日本走出通货紧缩之时，他迫切需要展示其努力的成果，因而正在呼吁像西村这样爱存钱的人，为了经济发展，为了他们自己，改变节俭的思维方式。
Ms. Nishimura, like many Japanese, is unconvinced. “I’ve never experienced inflation. It doesn’t seem real to me,” said Ms. Nishimura, who works at a technology company in the port city of Kobe.
但是像很多日本人一样，西村没法相信这套说法。“我从没有经历过通货膨胀。这在我看来不像是真的会出现，”西村说道。她在港口城市神户的一家科技公司工作。
The result of this uncertainty could be a sputtering economic recovery in Japan, which has experienced a resurgence of sorts under Mr. Abe.  
在安倍的领导下，日本已经经历了某种形式的复苏，而西村等人对未来的不确定则可能会抑制经济复苏的进程。
Just as Europe’s investors are getting nervous because of the rising possibility of deflation, more people are doubting Japan’s much-trumpeted fight to escape it. These concerns have been heightened by recent data suggesting unexpectedly weak economic growth in the fourth quarter. On Monday, the government said the economy had grown even more slowly than estimated, just 0.7 percent on an annualized basis, hurt by weaker-than-expected consumer spending and capital expenditures.
就在欧洲投资者纷纷因为通货紧缩的可能性增加而忧心忡忡的时候，有更多人在怀疑，日本摆脱通缩的效果是否如它吹嘘的那么好。而近来的数据又显示，第四季度的经济增长出乎意料地低迷，于是又进一步加深了这种担忧。周一，政府表示，经济增长甚至比预期更慢，受到低于预期的消费支出和资本支出的影响，年化增长为0.7%。
If more people expected a future of rising prices and wages instead of falling ones, Mr. Abe’s reasoning goes, they would spend now before goods became more expensive. To beat rising prices, they would also invest their money in higher-yielding investments. Companies, confident of a new era of higher sales and profits, would raise prices and wages, completing a positive economic cycle.
安倍的理论是，如果有更多人认为，物价和工资会在未来不跌反涨，他们就会现在趁商品价格上涨之前开始消费。为了赶超物价上涨的速度，他们也会将资金投入收益较高的投资中。而公司相信自己会迎来一个销售额和利润更高的新时代，就会提高价格和工资，由此完成一个积极的经济周期。
A big obstacle in Japan’s path, Mr. Abe says, has been the entrenched attitudes and behaviors in the country after so many years of falling prices. “It is not easy to alter a deflation mind-set that has been in place here for over 15 years,” Mr. Abe told Parliament last month.
安倍说，日本复苏之路上的一个巨大障碍是，经过了这么多年的物价下跌之后，这个国家已经形成了一种固有的态度和行为方式。安倍上个月对国会说，“要改变一种存在逾15年的通货紧缩思维，是不容易的。”
For most countries, moderately rising prices are a normal part of life. A Big Mac hamburger in the United States, which went for about $2.50 in 1998, now costs over $4.50. Since the turn of the century, American consumer prices have risen from 1.5 to 4 percent a year.
对多数国家来说，物价的小幅上涨再正常不过。在美国，一个巨无霸汉堡包的售价在1998年大约是2.5美元，如今超过4.5美元。从世纪之交开始，美国的物价涨幅已经从每年的1.5%增加到4%。
But in Japan, overall prices have not risen since the late 1990s. The Big Mac still costs about the same here as it did in 1998: about 300 yen, or almost $3. The price of another popular fast-food offering — the beef-and-rice bowl from the Yoshinoya restaurant chain — has fallen from 400 yen in the late 1990s to 280 yen today. During that time, average worker incomes have also fallen.
但是在日本，从20世纪90年代末，整体物价就没有再增长过。巨无霸汉堡包现在的售价基本和1998年一样：大约300圆（约合28元人民币），相当于3美元左右。而另一种受欢迎的快餐食品——吉野家(Yoshinoya)连锁餐厅的牛肉饭——则从90年代末的400圆跌至现在的280圆。在同期，工薪阶层的平均工资也同样下降了。
Mr. Abe hopes his policies will change that. Since coming to power in late 2012, he has pursued aggressive economic and monetary policies to bring an end to deflation. His first measure, a blast of monetary policy that has doubled the country’s money supply, has already elevated prices by weakening the yen and pushing up the cost of energy and food imports.
安倍希望他推出的政策会对此做出改变。自从2012年末上台以来，他一直追求积极的经济和货币政策，来结束通货紧缩。安倍第一步就推出了一项影响巨大的货币政策，将日本的货币供给翻了一番，通过压低日元汇率和抬高能源和食品进口的成本来推高物价。
The slow progress in beating deflation reflects the difficulties of overcoming entrenched expectations and behaviors, especially among younger Japanese who have never experienced rising prices, said Taro Saito, senior economist at the NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.
东京NLI基础研究所(NLI Research Institute)的高级经济学家斋藤太郎(Taro Saito)说，在击退通货紧缩方面的缓慢进展，反映了克服根深蒂固的预期和行为的难度，对那些从没有经历过通货膨胀的年轻一代日本人来说尤其如此。