TOKYO — Taking his nation another step further from its postwar pacifism, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe approved a new defense plan on Tuesday that calls for acquiring airborne drones and amphibious assault vehicles to strengthen Japan’s military as it faces the prospect of a prolonged rivalry with China over islands in the East China Sea.
东京——随着日本因岛屿争端陷入与中国的持久对抗，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)于周二批准了一项新的防卫计划，要求购买无人机和水陆两用车来增强日本的军事力量，此举致使日本进一步远离了战后的和平主义立国方针。
While Mr. Abe described the plan “proactive pacifism,” it reverses a decade of military spending cuts to offset a rapid military buildup by China and the relative decline of American influence.
该计划虽然被安倍晋三称为“积极的和平主义”，但却推翻了持续10年的军费缩减趋势，目的是应对中国的快速军备建设和美国影响力的相对削弱。
The spending plan was approved by the cabinet in tandem with a new national security strategy that calls for creating a more dynamic military force, as well as loosening self-imposed restrictions on exporting weapons and nurturing a stronger sense of patriotism in Japan’s public.
安倍内阁通过了这项开支计划，同时也提出了一项新的国家安全战略，要求建设更加强大的军事力量，放松对武器出口的限制，在日本民众中培养更强烈的爱国主义情感。
Under the new strategy, Japan will build closer military ties with the United States, whose 50,000 military personnel stationed here still form the basis of Japan’s national security. However, Japan will also strengthen its purely defensive forces by acquiring new weapons and capabilities that would have once been unthinkable for a nation that long viewed its military with suspicion after its disastrous defeat in World War II.
根据新战略，日本将与美国建立更紧密的军事关系。美国在日本的驻军规模达到了5万人，至今仍是日本的国家安全基础。然而，日本还将通过购买新武器、提高战斗力来加强纯粹的防御力量，对于一个自二战惨败以来长期对其军队持怀疑态度的国家来说，这曾经是不可想象的事情。
Japan will “build a comprehensive defensive posture that can completely defend our nation,” according to the new national security strategy. “China is attempting to alter the status quo by force in the skies and seas of the East China Sea and South China Sea and other areas based on assertions that are incompatible with the established international order.”
日本将“建设能够完全保卫我们国家的综合防御架构”，新的国家安全策略称。“中国正在以与既有国际秩序不符的主张为依据，试图强行进入东海、南海及其他地方的空域及海域，借此改变现状。”
Political analysts have said China’s assertive stance in the dispute over the islands have made Japan’s once adamantly pacifist public more willing to accept an expanded role by its military, called the Self-Defense Forces.
政治分析人士曾表示，由于中国在岛屿争端中的强硬立场，曾经坚定追求和平主义的日本民众已经更愿意接受军队——自卫队(Self-Defense Forces)——角色的扩展。
The new security strategy also calls for raising Japan’s regional profile by building security ties with other Asian nations, though it is unclear how much a stronger Japanese military will be welcomed by neighbors such as South Korea, where memories of Japan’s early 20th-century militarism are still raw.
新的安全策略还要求与其他亚洲国家建立安全纽带，以便提升日本的区域地位，不过，目前尚不清楚更强大的日本军队会受到韩国等邻国多大程度的欢迎。在韩国，日本在20世纪初的军国主义行径依然是一份痛苦的记忆。
The plan announced Tuesday will raise total military spending over the next five years by 1.2 trillion yen, or $12 billion, to $246 billion, reversing a long decline in spending. While that represents an increase of almost 5 percent, it is still far below the annual double-digit rises in Chinese military spending.
根据周二公布的防御计划，未来5年的时间里，日本将总共增加1.2万亿日元（约合120亿美元，728亿元人民币）的军费，总额达到2460亿美元，逆转长期以来的军费缩减趋势。日本军费虽然将由此增加将近5%，但仍然远低于中国军费高达两位数的年增长速度。
According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Japan had the fifth-largest military budget in the world last year, while China was ranked second behind the United States.
斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所(Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)表示，日本去年的军费预算排名世界第五，中国则位居第二，仅次于美国。
Much of Japan’s new spending will go to beef up its ability to monitor and defend its southwestern islands, including those at the center of the heated standoff with China, which are known as the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in Chinese. To do this, Japan will station more early warning aircraft in Okinawa and buy three unarmed Global Hawk drones.
日本的大部分新增预算将用来加强监控和保卫西南部岛屿的能力，引发中日争端的那些岛屿也在其中，日本称这些岛屿为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)，中国称之为钓鱼岛。为了达到这个目的，日本将向冲绳派驻更多预警机，并购买三架不携带武器的“全球鹰”(Global Hawk)无人机。
The five-year spending plan l also calls for the acquisition of beach-assault vehicles and American Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft to equip a new Marine Corps-style amphibious infantry unit that can defend and recapture remote islands.
这个五年开支计划还要求购买海滩突击车和美国“鱼鹰”(Osprey)斜旋翼飞机，用来装备一个新的海军陆战队式两栖步兵部队，使之具有防卫和夺回偏远岛屿的能力。
On Tuesday, the cabinet also approved a revised 10-year military strategy that calls on Japan to create a more mobile military that can deal with contingencies on far-flung islands, as well as so-called gray zone conflicts that might involve small numbers of terrorists or paramilitary attackers. It calls for the army to maintain its current level of about 160,000, reversing earlier plans to shrink that number. And it said Japan would study whether it should buy or develop long-range strike capability, such as a cruise missile, that would allow it to destroy a threat like a North Korean ballistic missile before it could be launched.
周二，日本内阁还批准了修改后的10年军事战略，要求日本创建一支机动性更强的军队，使日本有能力处理偏远岛屿上的意外事件，以及所谓的灰色区域冲突，这些冲突可能会牵涉到人数不多的恐怖分子或准军事袭击者。该战略要求军队维持16万人左右的现有规模，改变了削减规模的较早计划。战略还称，日本将研究是否应该购买或研发巡航导弹等具有远程攻击能力的武器，倘若拥有这种武器，日本就能在朝鲜弹道导弹之类的武器发射之前将其摧毁。
Japan has so far eschewed such clearly offensive weapons to maintain the purely defensive nature of its military, whose existence already pushes the limits of a postwar Constitution that bars the nation from possessing “land, sea and air forces, as well as other war potential.” Mr. Abe wants to go even further by stretching the definition of self-defense to include action taken on behalf of allies under attack, allowing Japan to, for example, shoot down a North Korean ballistic missile heading toward the United States.
截至目前，日本一直在刻意远离这类具有明显攻击性的武器，这样做是为了维持日本军队的纯粹防御性质。日本军队的存在已经超出了该国战后宪法的规定，宪法规定日本不得拥有“陆、海、空军事力量，以及其他具有战争潜力的军事力量”。安倍晋三希望更进一步，方法是扩展自卫的定义，增加使之包括因盟友受到攻击而采取的行动，举例来说，日本由此就有权击落飞往美国的朝鲜弹道导弹。
However, that doctrine, known as collective self-defense, has run into stiff public opposition, including from a small Buddhist political party within Mr. Abe’s own ruling coalition. On Tuesday, the top government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said consideration of collective self-defense would be put off until next year at earliest.
然而，这种名为集体自卫权的原则受到了公众的强烈反对，连安倍晋三执政联盟内部的一个小型佛教政党也对此表示反对。周二，政府首席发言人、日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说，对集体自卫权的考虑至少将被推迟到明年。