TOKYO — When Rakuten, Japan’s leading e-commerce company, introduced its Kobo e-reader in Japan in July 2012, the company’s chief executive, Hiroshi Mikitani, presented a gift to Yoshinobu Noma, the president of Kodansha, Japan’s largest publisher.
东京—— 2012年7月，日本知名电子商务企业乐天株式会社(Rakuten)在本土推出Kobo电子阅读器的时候，首席执行官三木谷浩史(Hiroshi Mikitani)送给日本最大的出版商讲谈社(Kodansha)社长野间省伸(Yoshinobu Noma)一件礼物。
It was a T-shirt emblazoned with “Beat Amazon.” Mr. Mikitani wanted to signal that the two companies had no intention of slugging it out in a print-versus-digital fight in Japan.
它是件T恤衫，上面醒目地写着“打败亚马逊”(Amazon)。三木谷浩史希望发出一个信号：两家公司的意图并不是在日本掀起一场实体书与电子书之间的战争。
The alliance did little to help them defend against Amazon. Four months later, Amazon brought its Kindle e-reader to Japan. It quickly became Japan’s top-selling e-reader, gaining 38.3 percent of the market, according to the MM Research Institute, a data firm in Tokyo. Even though Rakuten’s Kobo had beaten Kindle to market by nearly five months, it grabbed only 33 percent of Japan’s e-reader sales during the same 12-month period. Sony, which had stated its goal of selling half of all e-readers by 2012, managed to hold only 25.5 percent with its devices.
不过，两家的联手并未在它们抵御亚马逊时起到太大作用。四个月后，亚马逊在日本市场上推出了Kindle，很快使之成为该国最畅销的电子阅读器。根据东京的数据公司MM总研株式会社(MM Research Institute)的统计，Kindle占据了38.3%的市场份额。尽管乐天Kobo比Kindle早上市近5个月，但它12个月的销量仅占日本电子阅读器总销量的33%。索尼(Sony)曾经声称，公司的目标是旗下的阅读设备到2012年占到总销量的50%，但实际仅占25.5%。
Amazon sells its Kindle in 14 countries, Japan being the very latest. Misao Konishi, an Amazon spokeswoman, declined to talk about the company’s goals for the Japanese market, but she did offer some insight into Amazon’s ambitions. “Every book ever printed, in every language, available to buy in 60 seconds,” Ms. Konishi said. “There are many things to accomplish in order to achieve that vision in Japan.”
亚马逊在14个国家销售Kindle，日本是它最新进入的市场。亚马逊的发言人小西节（Misao Konishi，音译）拒绝讨论公司在日本市场的目标，不过她还是提供了一些线索，让人一窥亚马逊的雄心。“每本付梓的书籍，不管是哪种语言，都能在60秒的时间里买到，”她说。“要想在日本实现这个愿景，还有许多事情要做。”
The Kindle’s quick success is a stark contrast to the Japanese companies’ efforts. Until Amazon showed up, e-readers failed to live up to expectations. Sony brought out the first reader using E Ink technology in Japan in 2004, the LIBRIe.
Kindle的迅速成功与日本企业的劳神费力形成了鲜明对比。亚马逊进入日本之前，各种电子阅读器的表现均不如人意。早在2004年，索尼就在本土推出了第一款采用E Ink技术的阅读器LIBRIe。
Buyers of the LIBRIe, which like early Kindles showed black text on a white background, suffered from a convoluted marketplace that allowed them only to rent e-books, not buy them. Amazon, which developed its Kindle with digital books people could buy from — where else? — Amazon.com, found instant success after its introduction in the United States in 2007.
与早期的Kindle一样，LIBRIe也是在白色背景里显示黑字。但它的网上书店令人费解，只准租书、不能买书，让用户苦不堪言。亚马逊研发的Kindle则能让用户在Amazon.com上购买电子书，2007年在美国一经推出就立即获得了成功。
Sony stopped selling its device that year. The company’s subsequent e-readers, even after Sony developed a library of books to buy, have met with limited success.
索尼当年就停售了LIBRIe。尽管公司后来开发出了可供购买的电子书库，但其后推出的各款电子阅读器均销量平平。
Japan isn’t a big contributor to global e-reader sales, estimated at around 19.9 million units by IDC, a market research firm. MM Research said that a total of 470,000 devices were sold there last year, and that it expected sales to climb about 10 percent to 520,000 units in 2014.
根据市场调研公司IDC的统计，全球电子阅读器的年销量约为1990万台，而日本并没有占据太大份额。MM总研称，日本去年的总销量是47万台，预计2014年将增长10%，达52万台。
Amazon’s victory over Sony and Rakuten, which got into the e-reader business when it bought the Toronto-based Kobo in November 2011, began with aggressive pricing. Amazon sold the Kindle Paperwhite, a color-screen tablet, for 7,980 yen, or about $80. Not only was its price about $40 less than it was in the United States, it also matched that of Rakuten’s Kobo and Sony’s PRS-T2, both color-screen tablets.
2011年11月收购了位于多伦多的Kobo公司后，乐天得以进入电子阅读器市场。亚马逊对索尼和乐天的胜利，始于激进的定价策略。亚马逊的彩屏平板Kindle Paperwhite在日本的售价为7980日元（约合490元人民币）。这一售价不仅比美国便宜了大概40美元（约合240元人民币），还与同样是彩屏平板的乐天Kobo和索尼PRS-T2不相上下。
In a bid to gain market share, Rakuten dropped the price of its e-reader in July to to 5,480 yen, and will continue to focus on this basic model, even as the company launches the new high-end Kobo Aura HD in Europe and the United States in September.
为了夺取市场份额，乐天于今年7月把自家产品的售价降至5480日元。尽管将于今年9月在欧洲和美国推出全新的高端产品Kobo Aura HD，但公司仍将继续把重点放在当前的基本款上。
But Amazon wasn’t winning just because of price. It also gave consumers another reason to prefer the Kindle. “The reason for the Kindle’s success in Japan is the same as it was in America,” said Munechika Nishida, author of “The Truth About the E-book Revolution” and a technology analyst. “The Amazon Web store is the easiest to use, the easiest to understand.”
不过，亚马逊的胜利靠的不光是价格，它还给了消费者另一个青睐Kindle的理由。科技业分析师西田宗千佳(Munechika Nishida)著有《电子书革命的真相》(The Truth About the E-book Revolution)一书，他说，“Kindle在日本成功的原因与在美国一样。亚马逊网上书店不仅最容易操作，也最容易搞懂。”
Sony and Rakuten’s e-readers are not technologically inferior to the Kindle, Mr. Nishida said, but buying e-books on the Kindle marketplace takes fewer steps. Rakuten and Sony’s devices make browsing and purchasing more difficult, he said.
西田宗千佳表示，索尼和乐天的电子阅读器在技术上并不逊于Kindle，但通过Kindle市场购买电子书所需的步骤更少。而且，乐天和索尼设备的浏览与购书环节难度更大。
In Tokyo’s Jimbocho neighborhood, famous for more than 100 years for its used and specialty bookshops, Hiroshi Kobayashi of Komiyama Books said customers sometimes used their smartphones to snap photos of books they planned to download later. Still, he said that he didn’t consider the Kindle a threat to his livelihood — yet.
一个多世纪以来，东京神保町因坐落于此的旧书店和特色书店而闻名。小宫山书店(Komiyama Books)的小林广志（Hiroshi Kobayashi，音译）说，顾客有时会用智能手机拍下图书的照片，然后再去网上下载购买。不过，他仍然不认为Kindle会威胁自己的生计，至少现在还没有。
“Eventually, they’ll begin making electronic versions of these older, rare books,” Mr. Kobayashi said. “Then I’ll have something to worry about.”
“他们最终会着手把这些古籍珍本也做成电子版，”他说。“到那时，我就有得担心了。”