TOKYO — A man once hailed as Japan’s deaf musical genius and likened to Beethoven faced the wrath of his nation on Friday, appearing in public for the first time since he was exposed as a fake.
东京——一名曾被誉为日本的失聪音乐天才、被人们比作贝多芬的男子于周五出现在公众面前，面对群情激愤的日本国民，这是他被曝作假以来首次在公众场合露面。
With brows furrowed and lips clenched, the man, Mamoru Samuragochi, 50, described how his childhood love for music came to fuel an elaborate deception that ended when it was learned that someone else had written his celebrated compositions and that he was not deaf.
这名男子是50岁的佐村河内守(Mamoru Samuragochi)，他紧皱眉头，咬紧双唇，讲述了他儿时对音乐的热爱如何促使他精心炮制了一出骗局。这出骗局最终戛然而止，因为众人得知，他那些著名乐曲出于他人代笔，他并不是聋子。
“I thought the truth would come out some day,” he murmured at a news conference in Tokyo bursting with reporters and cameras. “It all grew beyond my control, and filled me with terror,” he said.
“以前我就想，总有一天会真相大白。”他在东京的新闻发布会上嘟哝着说，“事情的发展超出了我的控制，让我满心恐惧。”发布会上挤满了记者，到处都是摄像机。
“To everyone who was kind enough to buy my CDs, I have no words,” he said.
他说，“对于每个好意购买我唱片的人，我无言以对。”
The story Mr. Samuragochi wove had enthralled Japan — the son of a survivor of the attack on Hiroshima, he overcame the loss of his hearing at age 35 to write compositions that seemed to capture Japan’s heart.
佐村河内守编造的故事让整个日本如痴如醉——故事称他是广岛核轰炸幸存者的儿子，在35岁时克服失聪残疾，写出了似乎俘获了所有日本人心灵的曲子。
His Symphony No. 1 “Hiroshima,” about the 1945 atomic bombing of his home city, won accolades and sold almost 200,000 copies. His works accompanied video games and even the Japanese Olympic figure skater Daisuke Takahashi’s program in Sochi, Russia.
描写1945年原子弹轰炸自己家乡小城的第一交响曲“广岛”(Symphony No. 1 “Hiroshima”)为他赢得了赞誉，这首曲子的唱片销量达到了20万张。他的作品成了电子游戏的背景音乐，甚至成了日本奥运代表团花样滑冰选手高桥大辅(Daisuke Takahashi)在索契冬奥会比赛中的伴奏音乐。
That fairy tale came crashing down last month when an obscure part-time lecturer at a Tokyo music college, Takashi Niigaki, revealed that he had been Mr. Samuragochi’s ghostwriter since the 1990s. Even more shocking, he claimed that Mr. Samuragochi was not really deaf.
上个月，他编造的神话轰然坍塌，当时，东京某音乐学院默默无闻的兼职讲师新垣隆(Takashi Niigaki)披露说，自上世纪90年代起，他一直是佐村河内守的代笔。更令人震惊的是，他声称佐村河内守并没有真的失聪。
They had normal conversations together, spoke on the telephone and even listened to music together, Mr. Niigaki said.
新垣隆说，他们曾进行正常交谈，相互通电话，甚至还一起听过音乐。
On Friday, Mr. Samuragochi repeatedly bowed his head in apparent shame. Gone were the flowing hair, sunglasses and slick suits that had been his trademarks, replaced by a fairly short haircut and a no-nonsense suit.
周五，佐村河内守多次鞠躬，显得十分羞愧。他那标志性的飘逸长发、太阳镜和挺括套装不见了，取而代之的是一头相当短的头发和一套简单实用的套装。
Still, Mr. Samuragochi had some sharp words for Mr. Niigaki. He said that while his partner had been responsible for his compositions, they were still based on his grand themes and musical architecture.
然而，佐村河内守说到新垣隆时依然言辞激烈。他说，自己的曲子虽然是新垣隆写的，曲子的基础却仍然是他的宏大主题和音乐架构。
Mr. Samuragochi also said that while he was not legally deaf, he did suffer from a hearing impediment that made it difficult for him to clearly understand conversations. He used a sign language interpreter at the news conference. “He says we spoke on the phone, that I would turn around when spoken to from behind. Those are complete lies,” Mr. Samuragochi said of Mr. Niigaki, who could not be reached for comment. He added that he was preparing to sue Mr. Niigaki for libel.
佐村河内守还说，自己虽然不是法律意义上的聋子，听力方面却的确有障碍，很难听明白谈话内容。在新闻发布会上，他配了一名手语翻译。“他说我们通过电话，还说如果有人从背后和我说话，我会转过身去。这完全是一派胡言，”佐村河内守在说起新垣隆时说。他还补充说，自己准备起诉新垣隆诽谤。我们无法联系到新垣隆对此发表评论。
The reporters were not in a sympathetic mood. “There’s suspicion that you’re answering our questions before your sign language interpreter finishes,” one reporter said.
现场记者并未对他表示同情。“令人生疑的是，你的手语翻译还没翻译完，你就开始回答我们的问题了，”一名记者说。
“How about Mr. Takahashi?” another asked, referring to the figure skater, who inadvertently got caught up in the scandal weeks before the Winter Games. Mr. Samuragochi said he had been too distressed to watch him skate.
“高桥大辅呢？”另一名记者问道。这名记者指的是那名花样滑冰选手，在距今年冬奥会开幕还有几周时，他无意中卷进了这起丑闻。佐村河内守说自己太过苦恼，没有看他滑冰。
But the questions that appeared to cut into Mr. Samuragochi the most were the simplest ones. “When was the happiest time of your life?” a reporter asked.
然而，最让佐村河内守痛苦的似乎是那些最简单的问题。“你一生最幸福的时刻是在什么时候？”一名记者问。
“I don’t think there was ever a happy time,” Mr. Samuragochi answered.
“我觉得我从来不曾有过幸福的时刻，”他回答说。
“When would you say you hit rock bottom?” the same reporter asked.
“那你觉得什么时候是你人生的谷底呢？”这名记者问。
“I’d say now,” Mr. Samuragochi said.
“要我说就是现在，”佐村河内守说。