TOKYO — Seven teenagers from a high school mountaineering club and a teacher died in an avalanche on Monday in an area of northeastern Japan that had been blanketed by unusually heavy spring snows, authorities said.
东京——当局称，日本东北部一个被异常厚的春雪覆盖的地区周一发生雪崩，导致一个高中登山俱乐部的七名青少年和一名教师遇难。
The students were training about 100 miles north of Tokyo, in an area where the weather bureau had issued an avalanche warning urging caution a day earlier. Dozens of other students and teachers were injured.
当时，学生和老师们正在东京以北大约100英里（约合160公里）的地方训练。一天前，气象局已在该地区发布了雪崩预警，呼吁民众谨慎行事。另有几十名师生在此次事件中受伤。
“Suddenly everything turned white,” a male student who was caught by the cascade of snow said in a telephone interview with NHK, the Japanese national broadcaster.
“突然成了一片白，”一名经历此次雪崩的男学生在接受日本全国性电视台NHK的电话采访时说。
“The teacher at the front yelled, ‘Get down,’ so we dropped down and got covered in snow,” said the student, who was not identified by name. “Then those of us who could move helped dig out people who were buried.”
“前面的老师喊‘趴下’，于是我们都低下身子，被雪盖住了，”这名未公布姓名的学生说。“然后，我们中能动的人帮忙把被埋的人挖了出来。”
About 60 students from seven high schools in rural Tochigi Prefecture were participating in the annual early-spring climb. The area has been in the grip of snowstorms strong enough that rescue helicopters initially had trouble reaching the avalanche zone, according to Japanese news reports.
当时，位于农村地区的栃木县七所高中的大约60名学生正在参加一年一度的初春登山训练。据日本的新闻报道称，该地区的暴风雪非常猛烈，导致救援直升机一开始难以抵达发生雪崩的地区。
Television news footage showed rows of ambulances and other emergency vehicles waiting in the still-falling snow as crews worked to find and rescue survivors. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe spoke of the disaster in Parliament, saying officials were “making every effort to respond.”
电视新闻镜头显示，雪仍在下，工作人员正在努力寻找和营救幸存者，一排排救护车和其他应急车辆在旁边等候。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在国会谈及这次灾难时称，官方正在“尽一切努力应对”。
After several hours, rescuers began bringing down the bodies of the dead, covered in blue plastic tarps.
几小时后，救援人员开始抬出盖着蓝色塑料布的遇难者遗体。
The branch of the Tochigi government responsible for dealing with natural disasters identified the victims as boys from Otawara High School. It said they had been found “without vital signs,” a phrase commonly used by Japanese officials before families are notified and formal death certificates are issued.
栃木县政府负责处理自然灾害的部门确认，遇难者是来自大田原高中(Otawara High School)的男生。该机构还表示，他们被发现时“已无生命特征”。这是日本官员在通知家属和发出正式的死亡证明之前常用的一个说法。
“I heard yelling. Then afterward I heard the sound of sirens and helicopters,” one student told NHK.
“我听到有人大喊，后来再听到的就是警报器和直升机的声音了，”一名学生对NHK说。
He said he was in a tent about 300 feet away from the avalanche when it occurred, around 9:20 a.m. “I couldn’t contact some of my friends for a few hours,” he said. “I learned how scary a mountain can be.”
他说，早上9点20分前后发生雪崩时，他正在离雪崩大约300英尺（约合90米）的帐篷里。“好几个小时里我都联系不上一些朋友，”他说。“我知道了一座山可能会变得多可怕。”