HONG KONG — A serial murder trial in Japan took a cinematic turn this week when the accused, nicknamed the Black Widow by the news media, confessed in open court to having fatally poisoned her husband.
香港——本周，日本一个连环杀手的审理过程出现了戏剧性的一幕，被新闻媒体称为“黑寡妇”的被告，在法庭上公开承认毒死了丈夫。
The case of Chisako Kakehi, now 70, has gripped Japan since her arrest in 2014, when the last of her four husbands, Isao Kakehi, a 75-year-old retired salaryman, was found dead at his home in Muko, a city near Kyoto, the latest in a string of her partners to have died.
自2014年被捕以来，现年70岁的笕千佐子(Chisako Kakehi)这个案子在日本受到了极大的关注，当时她的第四任丈夫笕勇夫(Isao Kakehi)，一个75岁的退休上班族，被发现死在京都附近向日市的家中，而在那之前，她的好几名伴侣也都已死亡。
“I killed my husband,” Mrs. Kakehi said from the witness stand Monday. “I have no intention of hiding the guilt. I will laugh it off and die if I am sentenced to death tomorrow,” she said, according to The Japan Times.
据《日本时报》报道，笕千佐子周一在证人席上说：“是我杀了丈夫，我无意隐瞒罪行。如果明天判处死刑，我会一笑置之。”
According to the authorities, Isao Kakehi was one of six men who died soon after marrying or dating Mrs. Kakehi, the onetime proprietor of a T-shirt printing business. Mrs. Kakehi has been on trial since June 26, accused of killing Mr. Kakehi and two other boyfriends and attempting to kill another man she had dated.
据当局介绍，有六名男子在和曾经从事T恤印花生意的笕千佐子结婚或约会之后不久死亡，笕勇夫是其中之一。笕千佐子的审判是从6月26日开始的，她被指控谋杀了笕勇夫和两名男友，以及试图谋杀另外一名约会对象未遂。
When she took the stand on Monday, Mrs. Kakehi initially said she would remain silent, but when asked by the prosecutor whether she had poisoned Mr. Kakehi, she confessed, adding there was “no mistake” about her role in his death.
周一在证人席上时，笕千佐子最初说她会保持沉默，但是当检察官问到她是否毒死了笕勇夫时，她承认了，而且还说她在丈夫之死中发挥的作用“是确定无疑的”。
“I wasn’t given any money after I married him,” Mrs. Kakehi said. “I felt like Isao was discriminating against me in comparison to the last woman he was in a relationship with, and I got angry,” she added, according to news reports.
新闻报道称，笕千佐子说：“和他结婚后，我没有拿到任何钱，我觉得他在歧视我，他对他的上一个女人可不是这样，我很生气。”
Mrs. Kakehi said she got the cyanide, with which she is believed to have poisoned her partners, from a business associate.
笕千佐子说，她从一个生意伙伴那里弄到了氰化物，据信她就是用氰化物毒死了伴侣。
Mrs. Kakehi’s attorneys have said she has dementia and is incapable of accurately remembering details from the time of the men’s deaths.
笕千佐子的律师说她有痴呆症，记不起在这些男人死亡之后的细节。
The case has struck a particular nerve in Japan, home of the world’s longest life spans, where aging baby boomers have skewed the country’s demographics toward the elderly.
日本是世界上人均寿命最长的国家之一，这个案件在日本尤其引人瞩目。随着婴儿潮一代的老龄化，日本的人口结构已经在向老年人倾斜。
All of the victims were between 70 and 80 years old and met Mrs. Kakehi between 2007 and 2013. The woman’s three other husbands, whom she married in the same period, also all died, though she has not been charged in their deaths.
所有受害者的年龄都介于70岁至80岁之间，他们在2007年至2013年期间与笕千佐子结识。在这段时期中，她嫁的另外三名丈夫也全部死亡，但她没有遭到起诉。
According to one official estimate, Mrs. Kakehi inherited as much as 1 billion yen, or $8.8 million, from the men.
据官方估计，笕千佐子从这些男人那里继承了10亿日元（约合人民币6000万元）。