TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan is now under more pressure to deliver on his much-promoted effort to improve the country’s long-term growth prospects, after a government estimate on Thursday showed that the economy had slowed in the quarter that ended in September.
东京——日本政府周四公布的一项估计数据显示，在结束于9月的上季度，日本经济增速出现放缓。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)现在面临着更大的压力，需要兑现他大肆宣传的提振该国长期增长前景的计划。
Recent delays on measures that would liberalize Japan’s labor market or level the playing field for Internet-based start-ups have raised questions about how committed Mr. Abe remains to his proposals, especially when they encroach on powerful vested interests.
一些可以让日本劳动力市场自由化，或为互联网创业企业创造公平竞争环境的措施，最近纷纷被延后。这让人们开始疑问，安倍晋三现在对他提出的政策主张到底有多认真，尤其是在这些主张触动强大的既得利益时。
According to the preliminary figures released on Thursday by the government’s Cabinet Office, exports and consumer spending displayed signs of weakening after strong overall growth in the first half of the year. Japan’s gross domestic product slowed to an annualized rate of 1.9 percent in the quarter, down from 3.8 percent in the previous quarter. Growth had benefited from a bold monetary and fiscal push by Mr. Abe’s government to stimulate the economy.
根据日本内阁府(Cabinet Office)周四公布的初步数据，在今年前半年强劲的全面增长之后，出口和消费支出显示出了走软的迹象。日本经济上季度年化增幅降至1.9%，前一季度为3.8%。这些增长得益于安倍晋三为刺激经济采取的一项大胆的货币和财政动作。
The slowdown takes some of the shine off what had been a bright spot for an otherwise lackluster year for the global economy. 
这次放缓让全球经济的一个亮点退去了几分光芒。除了这个亮点之外，今年的全球经济几乎一片黯淡。
“The break from rising share prices appears to have hurt consumer sentiment,” Akira Amari, the minister for economic revitalization, said at a news conference after the release. “Looking forward, I hope domestic demand holds up to bring about a more certain recovery,” he said.
负责重振经济的大臣甘利明(Akira Amari)在公布数据之后召开的新闻发布会上说，“不断上涨的股价突然刹车似乎打击了消费者信心。”他说，“展望未来，我希望国内需求能够继续保持良好，带来一个更加确定的复苏。”
A breather from the feverish stock market rally that hit Tokyo in the first half of the year has slowed luxury purchases. More worrisome, companies have hesitated to start raising wages despite a rebound in their profits, a reluctance that Mr. Abe has taken to complaining about.
今年上半年东京股市暴涨之中发生的短暂停顿，导致了奢侈品销售的放缓。更令人担心的是，尽管利润反弹，企业对涨薪却一直犹豫不决，这已经引来了安倍晋三的抱怨。
Another reason for the slowdown was a drop in net exports. Ever since Japan was effectively forced to close its nuclear reactors after the Fukushima disaster in 2011, its costs for importing energy have soared, hurting its balance of trade. Exports to Asia slowed amid concerns about growth in the region.
经济放缓的另一个原因是净出口的下降。自从2011年福岛核灾难迫使日本关闭核反应堆之后，进口能源的成本激增，进而损害了贸易平衡。由于对地区增长前景的种种担忧，面向亚洲的出口已经放缓。
A surge in smartphone shipments to Japan also made a dent in the trade balance. The popularity in Japan of Apple’s new iPhone 5S is most likely behind that jump in shipments, Kyohei Morita, chief economist at Barclays, wrote in a report this week.
日本智能手机出货量的激增，也影响了贸易平衡。巴克莱(Barclays)首席经济学家森田京平(Kyohei Morita)本周在一份报告中写道，苹果(Apple)新推出的iPhone 5S在日本非常火爆，这最有可能是出货量激增的原因。
Marcel Thieliant, an economist at the research firm Capital Economics in London, said that the Japanese economy was likely to regain momentum in the near term, and that the real worries would come after the tax increase.
伦敦的研究公司凯投宏观(Capital Economics)的经济学家马塞尔·蒂连特(Marcel Thieliant)说，日本经济可能在近期重新获得增长的动力，真正的担忧将在增税之后到来。
“An acceleration in growth towards year-end and potentially into 2014 looks likely as spending is brought forward, but demand will surely slump in the second quarter despite the recently announced fiscal stimulus measures,” he said in a note to clients after the data release.
在上述数据发布后，他在发给客户的一份报告中说，“因为支出被提前，在年底之前经济增长有望加快，而且在进入2014年后也可能保持这一态势，但二季度需求毫无疑问会下降，尽管最近宣布了财政刺激措施。”
Any further slowdown could move Japan’s central bank to expand its already aggressive easing program. Haruhiko Kuroda, the Bank of Japan governor, has promised that he will do “whatever it takes,” especially to cushion the effects of the planned sales tax increase. The government has also promised a spending package of 5 trillion yen, or about $50 billion, to ease the pain of higher taxes.
如果进一步放缓，日本央行可能会扩大已经很激进的宽松计划。日本央行(Bank of Japan)行长黑田东彦(Haruhiko Kuroda)已经承诺，将“采取一切必要行动”，特别是为了缓和即将生效的提高销售税的影响。政府还承诺了一项5万亿日元，约合500亿美元的一揽子支出计划，从而减轻增税带来的痛苦。
There is increasing pressure on Mr. Abe to renew his attention to his promised economic overhaul, with some executives saying that the government’s commitment has been slipping.
一些企业高管说，政府一直在打退堂鼓，在这种形势下，要求安倍晋三重新专注于他所承诺的经济改革的压力正不断加大。
Hiroshi Mikitani, an e-commerce entrepreneur and early supporter of Mr. Abe’s economic policies, assailed the government this week after it fell short on a promise to relax rules that limit sales of over-the-counter drugs on the Internet. The government has also appeared to step back from measures that could bring more fluidity to Japan’s rigid labor market. At the same time, Tokyo’s negotiations over an emerging Pacific trade pact led by the United States remain fraught, with opposition from an influential farming bloc.
安倍晋三经济政策的早期支持者、电子商务企业家三木谷浩史(Hiroshi Mikitani)本周对政府发出了指责，因为日本政府未能兑现承诺，放松对在网上销售非处方药的限制。政府似乎也没有兑现一些可能给日本僵化的劳动力市场带来更大灵活性的措施。与此同时，由于来自一个有影响力的农业集团的反对，日本政府有关一项美国主导的新太平洋贸易协定问题的谈判仍然不容乐观。
The consequence of relaxed rules for online drug sales is not huge, but a dispute over those rules between a powerful lobby of brick-and-mortar pharmacies and online newcomers like Mr. Mikitani’s Rakuten mall has come to symbolize a wider battle to inject more competition into the Japanese economy.
放宽在线药品销售规定的影响并不大，但是强大的实体药店游说团体和三木谷浩史的乐天(Rakuten)商城等电商新贵之间关于这些规定的争吵，代表了在向日本经济引入更多竞争的过程中，存在的一场更宏大的斗争。