Nikkei, the Japanese media group, agreed on Thursday to buy the FT Group, which includes The Financial Times, for about $1.3 billion, as Pearson, the British parent company of the pink broadsheet, moves to focus on its core educational publishing.
本周四，日本传媒集团日本经济新闻社(Nikkei)宣布达成协议，将以约13亿美元的价格收购《金融时报》(Financial Times)所在的金融时报集团(FT Group)。这份粉色宽幅报纸的英国母公司培生集团(Pearson)将把侧重点放在其核心业务教育出版上。
The Financial Times, one of the world’s most respected and distinctive newspapers, had been rumored to be for sale for some time. In recent years, Pearson has reshaped its business and its new leadership toned down the company’s longtime devotion to print.
《金融时报》是全球最受尊敬和最有特色的报纸之一。它将被出售的传言已经流传了一段时间。近年来，培生在调整旗下业务，新的领导层淡化了公司对平面媒体业务的长期侧重。
For Nikkei, the purchase of the Financial Times reflects the broader digital push in media.
对日经而言，收购《金融时报》之举反映了它在更大层面上推动数字媒体业务的努力。
Nikkei’s flagship publication Nihon Keizai Shimbun is Japan’s largest business newspaper, with a print circulation of around three million and a paid online readership of more than 400,000, according to its website. Japanese newspapers’ vast print circulations have helped cushion them against the technological and financial challenges of the Internet age.
日经的旗舰出版物《日本经济新闻》(Nihon Keizai Shimbun)是日本最大的商业报纸。其网站资料显示，它的发行量约为300万份，网上付费读者超过40万人。日本报纸的发行量较高，帮助它们缓解了在互联网时代面临的技术和财务挑战。
Yet that advantage has had a negative side. Online offerings have lagged, leaving Japanese publications vulnerable to shifting reader preferences. Even in Tokyo, print readership is declining, especially among the young, and many editors and publishers fear their publications lack the digital skills and experience to respond.
然而，这一优势已经出现了消极的一面。由于在线服务落后，一旦读者喜好转移，这些日本刊物就可能蒙受较大损失。即便在东京，印刷读物的读者人数也正在下降，在年轻人中尤其如此。很多编辑和发行人担心自己的出版物缺乏数字技能和经验，无力应对这种状况。
The $1.3 billion price dwarfs other recent sales. The Washington Post sold for $250 million in 2013. The Boston Globe sold for $70 million the same year.
此次13亿美元的收购价令近期的同类交易相形见绌。2013年，《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)出售时的成交价为2.5亿美元。同年《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)出售时的成交价为7000万美元。
Claudio Aspesi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London, said that from Pearson’s point of view, the price was a good one. “It was an offer they couldn’t refuse,” he said.
桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)驻伦敦的分析师克劳迪奥·艾普斯(Claudio Aspesi)表示，从培生的角度来看，价格令人满意。“这个出价让他们无法拒绝，”他说。
Nikkei and The Financial Times have similar pedigrees.
日经和《金融时报》也有相似的特征。
Founded in the late 19th century, they both dominate business coverage in the their home markets. Their countries’ main stock indexes, the Nikkei 225 and the FTSE 100, are named for them.
它们都成立于19世纪末，均为本土市场商业报道的领军者。这两个国家的主要股指，日经225指数和英国FTSE100指数，也分别以它们命名。
But The Financial Times has accomplished something Nikkei has not: It has turned itself into a truly global newspaper, with coverage ranging far beyond its base in midsize Britain. The Financial Times has combined paid print and digital circulation of 737,000.
不过，《金融时报》做到了日经尚未办到的事情：它发展成为了一家真正的全球性报纸，报道范围远远超出了不算太大的英国本土。《金融时报》的付费印刷版和数字版的总发行量达73.7万。
Nikkei’s newspaper, limited by a less global Japanese language, is far more domestically focused and has made just small international inroads. In 2013, it started an English-language magazine and website, Nikkei Asian Review.
日经的报纸受限于日语较低的全球普及率，更加注重于国内报道，在国际化发展方面步伐很小。2013年，它推出了名为《日经亚洲评论》(Nikkei Asian Review)的英文杂志和网站。
Nikkei may see the acquisition as a shortcut to attaining a broader reach at a time when news media is increasingly global.
在新闻媒体日益全球化之际，日经或许是把这宗收购看作一条捷径，以便实现更广泛的覆盖面。
The Guardian, the British newspaper and website, has long pursued a strategy built around robust global growth as domestic newspaper as sales have dwindled. The Huffington Post, which was recently said to have been valued at $1 billion, has also been aggressively expanding around the world. Axel Springer, the German media company that was considered a contender to buy The Financial Times, has been making investments and starting partnerships in global properties, including Politico.
随着国内报纸销量的减少，英国报纸和网站《卫报》(The Guardian)长期奉行以稳健的全球增长为中心的策略。近期估值据称达10亿美元的《赫芬顿邮报》(The Huffington Post)亦在积极推进全球拓展。德国媒体公司斯普林格集团(Axel Springer)据说参与了《金融时报》的竞购，它也在对全球性业务进行投资，并开始达成一些合作伙伴关系，其中包括携手新闻网站“政治人”(Politico)。
With the deal, Pearson is intensifying its focus on the educational publishing business, which provided about three-quarters of its profit last year. Pearson is the leader in the United States market for standardized testing materials, a business that accounts for more than 60 percent of its revenue in North America.
通过出售金融时报集团，培生准备将侧重点进一步放在教育出版业务上。去年，这部分的业务为它贡献了总利润的大约四分之三。培生是美国市场上标准化考试资料的领军者，而这项业务占其北美地区营收的60%以上。
But Pearson’s business in the United States has shown signs of faltering. College enrollment fell for a second year in 2014, and there has also been criticism of national Common Core educational standards.
不过，培生在美国的业务出现了步伐放缓的迹象。2014年，高校入学人数连续第二年下跌，全国性的教育标准“共同核心”(Common Core)也遭受了批评。
“Pearson has been a proud proprietor of The FT for nearly 60 years,” John Fallon, Pearson’s chief executive, said in a statement. “But we’ve reached an inflection point in media, driven by the explosive growth of mobile and social. In this new environment, the best way to ensure The FT’s journalistic and commercial success is for it to be part of a global, digital news company.”
“在过去近60年的时间里，培生集团作为《金融时报》的所有者一直感到非常骄傲，”培生集团首席执行官范岳涵(John Fallon)发表声明称。“然而，随着移动和社交媒体的迅猛增长，传媒业走到了一个转折点。在这种新环境下，确保《金融时报》新闻及商业成功的最佳方式就是使之成为一家全球性数字新闻企业的一部分。”
Pearson itself, he added, “will now be 100 percent focused on our global education strategy.”
他还表示，培生集团“未来将全力专注于全球教育事业”。
Shares of Pearson rose 2.4 percent in afternoon trading in London.
在伦敦股市当天的午后交易中，培生集团的股价上涨了2.4%。
Nikkei, which is privately held, is perhaps best known in the West for publishing the Nikkei 225 stock average, the benchmark for shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. But its business extends beyond publishing, to broadcasting, events and data services.
在西方，私人拥有的日经最为人知的可能是发布东京证券交易所的基准数据——日经225平均股价指数。但其业务也扩展到了出版之外的传播、会务及数据服务领域。
Nikkei already has an editorial partnership with The Financial Times. Nikkei distributes its content and translated Financial Times articles appear in Nikkei.
日经已经在与《金融时报》进行编辑方面的合作。日经分发该报的内容，并翻译发表《金融时报》的一些文章。
Given the language differences with Nikkei, the scope of editorial integration is likely to be limited. That could engender doubts about the business logic behind the acquisition, yet it may also ward off possible clashes between the newspapers’ journalistic cultures.
鉴于与日经存在语言差异，编辑工作的整合程度很可能受到限制。这或许会让外界怀疑收购背后的商业逻辑，但也可能会避免两家报纸的新闻文化出现冲突。
Nikkei, for all its dominance in business reporting in Japan, is seen by many as reluctant to sharply challenge the companies it covers. Corporate wrongdoing – be it financial scandals or the sale of unsafe products – is often reported elsewhere first, for instance, in the less establishment-connected weekly tabloids or the foreign news media, then followed by Nikkei.
尽管在日本的商业报道领域占据龙头位置，但日经被很多人认为不愿强烈质疑它报道的公司。例如，首先报道企业不法行为——财务丑闻或出售不安全的产品——的通常是那些与权贵阶层关系不大的每周发行的小报，然后才是日经新闻。
Mr. Aspesi, the analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said he was optimistic about The Financial Times’s future.
桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司的分析师艾普斯表示，他对《金融时报》的未来持乐观态度。
“If you’re a journalist at The FT, you’re going to be worried, but you would have been worried no matter who the buyer was,” he said. “And this is better than some oligarch.”
“如果你是《金融时报》的记者，你会担心，但无论买主是谁，你都会担心，”他说。“这比被某个寡头收购要好。”
“I think Nikkei understands that there is a culture at The FT that needs to be treated with care,” he said. “I doubt they’ll be as intrusive as some people fear.”
“我觉得日经知道，需要谨慎对待《金融时报》的文化，”他说。“我认为他们不会像一些人担心的那样指手画脚。”