Not long after he took over as president of Japan’s dominant business newspaper in April, Naotoshi Okada delivered a message to his 1,300 reporters and editors. It was time, he said, for Nikkei, the muscular but domestically focused broadsheet, to attain the global influence it had long craved.
在4月接任这家日本主要的经济日报社社长后不久，冈田直敏(Naotoshi Okada)向他的1300名记者和编辑发出一个信息。他说，是日本经济新闻社(Nikkei)实现其渴望已久的全球影响力的时候了，这家报社出版的《日本经济新闻》是日本一份很有影响力的大报，但主要关注国内问题。
The model he envisioned: the British newspaper The Financial Times.
冈田直敏心目中的模范是英国报纸《金融时报》(The Financial Times)。
“I want us to stand side by side with newspapers in Europe and America,” Mr. Okada, a career Nikkei journalist, said in a private address to the staff, according to two employees. Adding that he wanted columnists “whose advice is sought by the world’s central bankers,” he named The Financial Times’s respected economics editor, Martin Wolf, as an example.
“我希望我们能与欧洲和美国的报纸平起平坐，”日经职业记者出身的冈田直敏对报社员工发表内部讲话时说。据报社两名员工透露的讲话内容，冈田直敏还说，他要雇用“全球的央行行长都想听其意见的”专栏作家，他特别提到《金融时报》备受尊重的经济新闻编辑马丁·沃尔夫(Martin Wolf)，作为一个例子。
With the announcement last Thursday that Nikkei would buy The Financial Times from its British parent, Pearson, for $1.3 billion, Nikkei has committed sizable resources to bringing Mr. Okada’s journalistic touchstone under its roof.
上周四传出消息，日经将斥资13亿美元收购英国母公司培生(Pearson)旗下的《金融时报》，表明日经为收归冈田直敏的新闻典范已投下可观的资源。
The acquisition took the media world by surprise and has left many wondering how Nikkei — a 139-year-old publication read faithfully by millions of Japanese office workers but almost no one else — will manage its smaller but more cosmopolitan prize.
这笔收购令媒体界吃惊，许多人想知道，日经将如何管理其收购来的、一个更国际化的珍宝。《日本经济新闻》是一份具有139年历史的报纸，拥有上百万日本白领忠实读者，但除那以外，几乎没有其他人读。
The deal comes at a time of anxiety in the Japanese newspaper industry, where the huge circulations historically enjoyed by the leading dailies are beginning to creep downward, exposing weaknesses such as underdeveloped digital-publishing platforms and a general newsroom insularity.
这笔交易也发生在日本报纸行业充满焦虑之际，日本主要报纸在历史上享有的巨大发行量正开始下滑，暴露出行业的弱点，比如低水平的数字出版平台，还有新闻编辑部门普遍存在的、与世界隔绝的状态。
“Japanese newspapers have the largest circulations in the world, but it’s an almost entirely local industry,” said Yasunori Sone, a media studies professor at Keio University, citing a combination of language and cultural barriers that helps keep foreign competitors out and the domestic press looking inward.
“日本报纸拥有世界上最大的发行量，但日本报业几乎完全是一个本土产业，”庆应义塾大学媒体研究教授曾根泰教(Yasunori Sone)说，他指出，语言和文化障碍把国外竞争者挡在门外，但也让日本媒体只面对国内。
In interviews with current and former Nikkei journalists, many expressed doubts that The Financial Times would be more than an expensive trophy asset. Shoji Otsuka, an award-winning Nikkei veteran who has waged public battles with its management and is no longer at the paper, was one of several who likened the acquisition to the purchase of Rockefeller Center by the Japanese property company Mitsubishi Estate at the height of Japan’s financial bubble in 1989.
本报在对现任和前任日经记者的采访中发现，许多人对收购《金融时报》持怀疑态度，认为除了充当一个昂贵的战利品外，收购不会有太多其他作用。大冢正司(Shoji Otsuka，音译)是多次获奖的日经老牌记者，曾公开挑战管理层，现已不在日经报社工作，他和一些人把收购《金融时报》比作日本房地产公司三菱地产在1989年日本金融泡沫顶峰时收购洛克菲勒中心。
“They’re just buying an aspiration,” Mr. Otsuka said.
“他们只不过是在购买梦想而已，”大冢正司说。
Others see more potential for Nikkei to take advantage of The Financial Times’s strengths, especially in international reporting and online distribution. “The F.T. is one of the world’s few truly global papers,” Mr. Sone said, “and buying it is a big symbolic shift for Nikkei.”
也有人看到日经能利用《金融时报》优势的更多潜力，尤其是在国际报道和网上发行方面。 “《金融时报》是世界上为数不多的、真正的全球性报纸之一，”曾根泰教说，“购买它是日经做出的一个重大的象征性转移。”
Nikkei started an English-language weekly, The Nikkei Asian Review, in 2013, after several previous unsuccessful English-language ventures. A senior Nikkei journalist familiar with the company’s management strategy said Mr. Okada was “prepared to lose a billion yen” — roughly $8 million — “every year for a decade” on the start-up in the hope of nurturing it into a prominent regional publication, a goal he could never be sure of achieving. The Financial Times instantly gives him an established international news organization.
日经2013年开始发行一份名为《日经亚洲评论》(The Nikkei Asian Review)的英文周刊，此前还曾有过几次不成功的英文出版尝试。一位熟悉公司管理战略的日经资深记者称，冈田直敏为这个新刊物做了“在十年中，每年亏损十亿日元（约合800万美元）的准备”，目标是将其办成一份区域性的主导刊物，但他永远不可能确保实现这一目标。收购《金融时报》让他在瞬间得到了一份现成的国际化的出版物。
The contrast between Nikkei’s low global profile and its outsize presence at home is stark. The print paper has a circulation of nearly three million — more than any American daily and 10 times the number of readers who thumb through The Financial Times’s salmon pages. It prints twice a day, and readers can supplement their morning and evening Nikkei with business programs on the paper’s television network, TV Tokyo; receive instant news alerts from its wire service, Nikkei Quick; and check their investments on the Nikkei 225, the benchmark stock index compiled by the company.
日经在全球不惹人注目的地位与其在日本国内的超大实力形成鲜明的对比。日经新闻的纸版有近300万份的发行量，超过美国的任何日报，是翻阅《金融时报》粉红色报页读者的10倍。《日本经济新闻》每天出版两次，读者除了有早版和晚版可看外，还可以通过日经广播电视网东京电视台(TV Tokyo)的经济节目得到更多的消息，从Nikkei Quick电讯服务得到即时的消息提醒，还能通过报社编制的基准股票指数日经225跟踪自己的投资。
Nikkei also publishes magazines and industry-specific trade journals, owns a credit-rating agency and runs one of Japan’s major think tanks, the Japan Center for Economic Research. The company earned a little over $80.7 million in net profit last year on revenue of about $2.4 billion, but because it is privately held and its disclosures are limited, it is difficult to know which of its many businesses made money and which did not.
日经还出版杂志、以及针对特定行业的商业期刊，日经还拥有一个信用评估部门，并运作日本的一家主要智库——日本经济研究中心(Japan Center for Economic Research)。日经去年的净利润略高于8070万美元，其去年的营收额约为24亿美元，但因为它是一家非上市公司，披露的信息有限，不容易了解其经营的东西中，哪些赚钱，哪些不赚钱。
The center of the empire is the newspaper, whose employees are the company’s sole shareholders. Outsiders and even staff at non-newspaper subsidiaries are not allowed to buy in. Virtually all its journalists join straight out of Japanese universities. Most stories are produced by teams of writers and editors and are presented without bylines.
这个出版帝国的核心业务是《日本经济新闻》，报社员工是公司仅有的股东，外界人士不能持股，就连在公司下属的其他非报社部门工作的员工也不能持股。报社所有的记者几乎都是从日本大学毕业后直接雇来的。大多数报道都由记者和编辑团队采编，发表时没有署名人。
The paper has small sports and culture sections, but its specialties are politics, economics and — above all — news about Japanese companies. From the multinationals to their tiny suppliers, Nikkei covers thousands of them from more than 50 domestic bureaus in a country that is slightly smaller than California. Important companies are blanketed with reporters: Toyota has half a dozen Nikkei journalists assigned to it in and around its base in Nagoya, and several more covering it in Tokyo. Exclusives are churned out like cars on one of the automaker’s assembly lines.
这份报纸体育和文化版面内容比较少，其专长在于政治、经济新闻报道，尤其是日本公司报道。从跨国公司到它们的小供应商，在这个面积比加州还要略微小一点的国家里，日经设立了50多个本土分社进行报道。重要公司会有多个记者进行全方位覆盖：日经有6个记者报道丰田汽车，分布于该公司总部所在地名古屋及周边地区，另外还有几名记者在东京对该公司进行报道。三天两头的独家报道，如同这个汽车制造商的流水线上不断生产出的一辆辆汽车。
Mr. Otsuka, the former Nikkei reporter, said companies saw the paper as a friendly place to leak information on acquisitions, new products and financial results. “The vast majority of the scoops are leaks,” he said. Companies expect positive coverage in return, he added, and fear being ignored if they do not cooperate.
前日经记者大冢正司表示，日本公司将这份报纸看做一个友好的媒体，通过它透露有关公司收购、新产品和财务业绩的信息。他说，“日经的大多数独家新闻都是企业自愿透露，”还表示公司希望以此换来报纸对它进行正面报道，同时也害怕如果自己不配合，有可能从此被忽略。
“Reporters will tell you that if you don’t give a story to them exclusively, they won’t write it at all,” said a public relations official at a prominent Japanese company that invests and trades in commodities. Like several others in this article, the official did not want to be quoted for fear of jeopardizing relations with the newspaper.
“记者们会对你说，如果你不提供独家新闻，以后压根就不再报道你的公司，”一家从事商品投资和贸易的知名日本公司的公关人员说道。就像本文出现的其他几人一样，他也不想表明身份，担心会因此危及公司和日经的关系。
Nikkei declined to make Mr. Okada, its president, or Tsuneo Kita, its chairman and chief executive, available for interviews. It asked instead that all questions be submitted by fax.
日经拒绝安排社长冈田直敏或董事长兼CEO喜多恒雄(Tsuneo Kita)的采访，转而提出将所有问题以传真方式提交给他们。
Stock market regulators in Japan have begun warning companies against leaking certain kinds of information, particularly financial data — another reason Nikkei may see its traditional territory narrowing. Last year Bloomberg, which competes with Nikkei for financial scoops, counted 45 instances in which Nikkei reported a company’s year-end financial results before they were officially announced.
日本证券市场监管部门已经警告各类企业，不能对外泄露某些信息，尤其是财务数据，这是日经传统业务领域有可能不断缩小的另外一个原因。去年，与日经竞争独家金融新闻报道的彭博社(Bloomberg)统计发现，日经有45例报道是在一家公司进行官方发布之前就报道了该公司的年终财务业绩。
Nikkei’s hunger for scoops, its critics say, does not extend to the kinds of articles that newspapers in other countries like best — those that expose serious wrongdoing. It is rarely the first to report a true corporate scandal.
日经的批评者表示，它对独家新闻的渴求，并不包括其他国家的媒体最喜欢的那类文章，即揭露严重违法违规行为的报道。对于真正的企业丑闻，它很少第一个进行报道。
At a news conference on Friday, Mr. Okada acknowledged that Nikkei was “slow out of the blocks” on what was perhaps the most notorious recent example: coverage of a $1.7 billion accounting fraud at the Japanese camera maker Olympus four years ago. The paper waited several weeks to report details of accusations made by Olympus’s British former chief executive, initially reported by The Financial Times. Mr. Okada denied that the wait was motivated by deference to the company and said that, in any case, it would respect The Financial Times’s independence in future reporting on Japan.
在上周五进行的新闻发布会上，冈田直敏承认，在四年前对日本相机制造商奥林巴斯(Olympus)的17亿美元假账事件的报道中，日经“一开始反应比较慢”，这可能是近几年日经在这方面最为臭名昭著的例子。这次假账事件最先由《金融时报》报道，过了好几周之后，《日本经济新闻》才对奥林巴斯前英籍CEO所受指控的具体细节进行报道。冈田直敏否认三周时间的等待是为了给奥林巴斯面子。他表示，未来在有关日本的报道中，日经在任何情况下都会尊重《金融时报》的独立性。
Nikkei has also been slow to adapt to the digital age, a problem that other Japanese dailies are also dealing with. The large print readerships of Japanese papers have led to added complacency, experts say.
在适应数字时代的步伐方面，日经也比较缓慢，这是日本其他日报也在面临的问题。专家们表示，日本报纸拥有大量纸版读者，这更加让它们怡然自得。
Nikkei did not make online access available to readers without a print subscription until 2010, and its digital readership of 430,000 is just one-seventh that of its print base — a worrying ratio when younger Japanese, like their counterparts elsewhere, are increasingly turning to mobile devices for their news. In contrast, the smaller Financial Times, which has adopted an aggressive digital-first strategy, has more than twice as many readers online as in print.
之前，读者如果不订阅日经纸版报纸，就无法获得网上浏览途径，这一情况直到2010年才有所改变。目前它的电子版读者人数为43万，只有纸版订阅人数的七分之一。这一比例令人担忧，考虑到年轻一代的日本人，就像其他国家的年轻人一样，正越来越多通过移动设备获取新闻。相比之下，读者规模更小的《金融时报》采取了积极的电子版优先战略，目前其电子版读者人数已经是纸版读者的两倍多。