SEOUL, South Korea — The political and historical war of words between Japan and South Korea has found another battleground: the United States.
韩国首尔——日韩之间关于政治和历史的口水战已经找到了另一个战场：美国。
One of the first volleys in the battle for America’s sympathies was played out in a park in New Jersey in 2010, where Korean-Americans in Palisades Park won the right to install a plaque memorializing “comfort women,” many of them Korean, who were forced to work in Japanese military brothels during World War II. Since then, more Korean communities — sometimes backed by activists and even diplomats from South Korea — have begun their own campaigns either to acknowledge the suffering of the comfort women or, more recently, to win recognition for the country’s arguments that a nearby sea should not automatically be named after Japan, its onetime colonial ruler.
在这场大战中，争取美国同情的第一场冲突于2010年在新泽西州的一座公园里打响：韩裔美国人获得了在帕利塞德斯公园(Palisades Park)树立“慰安妇”纪念碑匾的权利。很多慰安妇都是朝韩人士，二战期间她们被迫在日本军队的妓馆卖身。之后，更多的韩裔社区也开展了自己的公关活动，要求承认慰安妇遭受的苦难，这些公关举动有时会受到活动人士甚至韩国外交官的支持。近来也有一些这样的活动希望赢得美国对另一件事的认同：韩国认为该国附近的一片海域不应该被不假思索地称为日本海。日本曾对朝鲜半岛进行殖民统治。
Legislators in Virginia passed a bill this month requiring books mentioning the Sea of Japan to also use its Korean name, the East Sea. New York is considering a similar measure. The ambassadors of South Korea and Japan visited the governor of Virginia in January to press their countries’ cases. Japan also hired four lobbyists to argue that the name change was unnecessary.
弗吉尼亚州议会本月通过了一项法案，要求提及“日本海”的书籍也同时使用它的韩国名字“东海”，纽约州也正在审议相似的法案。今年1月，韩国和日本的驻美大使分别拜访了弗吉尼亚州州长，陈述自己国家的立场。日本还雇佣了四名游说者来主张更名没有必要。
As the issues mount, the United States, which has labored to remain an impartial friend to both nations, has found itself in the middle of a fight between its two main Asian allies at a time when it wants their cooperation to face a resurgent China and a nuclear-armed North Korea.
美国为了在两国间维持不偏不倚的朋友形象本来已经颇为辛苦，但随着这个问题的发酵，美国发现自己夹在了两个主要亚洲盟友的争斗中间。美国原本希望日本和韩国可以合作，共同应对重新崛起的中国和拥有核武器的朝鲜。
“There is not one tenured professor on the East Coast who has not been contacted” by one or both of the countries, said Jonathan Berkshire Miller, chairman of the Japan-Korea Working Group at the Center for Strategic and International Studies Pacific Forum in Honolulu.
“在东海岸，没有哪个拿到终身教职的教授没有被日本或韩国联系过，有些人两国都联系过，”乔纳森·伯克希尔·米勒(Jonathan Berkshire Miller)说。他是位于檀香山的国际战略研究中心太平洋论坛(Center for Strategic and International Studies Pacific Forum)的日韩工作组(Japan-Korea Working Group)主席。
The Obama administration seemed to succeed in getting the two estranged allies to at least temper their bickering last week, arranging the first meeting between the Japanese leader, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea on the sidelines of an upcoming nuclear summit in the Netherlands.
上周，至少在缓和这两个不睦盟友之间的口水仗上，奥巴马政府似乎取得了一些进展：他们安排日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在即将在荷兰举行的核安全峰会的场外，安排了两人之间的第一次会面。
But the slight thaw comes after months of some of the most bitter divisions between the two countries in years, brought on in part by Japan’s election of a prime minister South Korea considers to be a dangerous revisionist of his country’s wartime history and the election in South Korea of a president whom the Japanese see as stubbornly demanding endless apologies.
尽管日韩关系稍显缓和，但两国多年以来显露出了一些最尖锐的分歧。造成这些分歧的部分原因在于安倍晋三当选为日本首相，以及朴槿惠当选韩国总统。韩国人认为安倍晋三很危险，希望改写战时历史，而日本人认为朴槿惠很固执，总是顽固地要求他们道歉。
The conflict is rooted in grievances going back to Japan’s brutal colonization of the Korean Peninsula from 1910 to 1945, and its attempts to extinguish the Korean culture. Experts say this internationalization of what had been bilateral disputes reflects the shifting balance of power in a region where a wealthier South Korea is challenging Japan’s century-long dominance. At the same time, Japan is showing more willingness to push back under the leadership of Mr. Abe, who has argued in the past that Japan’s wartime history has been depicted too negatively.
日韩冲突的根源在于1910年至1945年期间，日本对朝鲜半岛进行了残酷的殖民统治，并企图根除韩国的文化。专家说，原本的双边争端变得国际化，这反映了地区内力量平衡的变化：变得富裕起来的韩国正在挑战日本在该区域长达一个世纪之久的主导地位。与此同时，日本在安倍晋三的领导下也更有意愿还以颜色。安倍晋三曾表示，日本的战时历史被描绘得过于负面了。
“There’s propaganda to depict Japan in a way that’s far from the truth,” Mr. Abe told Parliament last month. “There is a danger that such propaganda will have a huge influence on our children’s generation. I want to think of a strong public relations counterstrategy going forward.”
“有些宣传把日本描绘得跟真相相差悬远，”安倍晋三上个月对国会说。“危险的是，这种宣传可能会对我们孩子那一代产生巨大影响。我希望想出一个强有力的公关策略来反击这种宣传。”
The Koreans have gained the upper hand, experts say, partly by casting issues like the women forced into sexual servitude more broadly, as violations of universal standards of human rights. Koreans are planning a permanent exhibit on the comfort women that likens Japanese wartime actions to Nazi atrocities, at a Holocaust resource center at the Queensborough Community College in New York City.
专家们说，韩国人目前占据了上风，部分是因为他们对“妇女被迫成为性奴”这个问题做出了更广泛的解读，谴责那是对普世人权标准的侵犯。韩国正计划在纽约市皇后社区学院(Queensborough Community College)的一所犹太人大屠杀资料中心进行永久性的慰安妇展览，把日本在战时的行为与纳粹暴行相提并论。
South Korea recently sent its gender equality minister to Columbia University with an animated movie about Japanese war atrocities that shows a “comfort woman” in traditional Korean garb raped by Japanese soldiers.
韩国最近派遣该国女性家庭部长官携一部展示日本战争暴行的动画片前往哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)。片中有一名身着韩国传统装束的“慰安妇”被多名日本士兵强奸的内容。
While Japan officially apologized in 1993, and set up a fund with private donations to compensate some of the 80,000 to 200,000 women believed to have been forced to work in wartime brothels, South Korean activists want a more repentant attitude. Tensions increased sharply last month when Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, responding to growing calls by nationalist lawmakers to scrap the apology, said the Abe government would review the testimony of women used in compiling it. Mr. Abe later said he would uphold the apology.
尽管日本于1993年正式做出了道歉，并且用私人捐款设立了一个基金，用于向据信被迫在战时慰安所工作的8万到20万女性中的部分人给予赔偿。但是韩国活动人士希望，日本能表现出更强烈的悔过态度。上个月，双方的紧张对立急剧升级。当时，日本民族主义议员撤回道歉的呼声日益高涨，内阁官房长官对此做出了回应，称安倍政府将审核道歉中提及的那些女性所做的证词。安倍晋三后来表示，他将维持当时的道歉。
Experts say that each side has the same goal: cajoling Washington into pressuring the other to make concessions.
专家们认为，双方抱有相同的目标：劝诱华盛顿出手施压，使对方让步。
“The U.S. is the main battlefield in Japan’s global public relations warfare against South Korea and China,” said Hiroshi Nakanishi, a professor of international politics at Kyoto University. “They are trying to reduce Japan’s global influence, and the perception is that they are winning.”
“在日本针对中韩的全球公关战中，美国是主战场，”京都大学(Kyoto University)的国际政治学教授中西宽(Hiroshi Nakanishi)说。“中韩试图削弱日本的全球影响力，而人们的印象是，它们在取得胜利。”
Experts said they expected the campaigning to only intensify ahead of President Obama’s visit to Asia next month, which the Americans hope will help mend fences.
专家预计，在奥巴马总统下月访问亚洲之前，这种公关战只会愈演愈烈。美国希望此行有助于弥合分歧。
Instead, the visit itself has become a new cause of one-upmanship between the nations: when a draft itinerary showed Mr. Obama spending two nights in Tokyo with no stopover in Seoul, Korean officials said they successfully demanded that the time in Japan be reduced and a visit be added to Seoul to meet with President Park.
结果，访问本身却成了日韩角力的新目标：一份草拟的行程表显示，奥巴马将在东京待两个晚上，而不会在首尔逗留。韩国官员称，经过他们争取，美方压缩了在日本的时间，增加了在首尔与朴槿惠总统会面的环节。
“We warned them that China is being very friendly toward Park Geun-hye,” said Han Suk-hee, an associate professor of international studies at Yonsei University in Seoul, who was part of a three-day mission to Washington last month to explain the grievances against Japan. “Korea believes we have the moral justification to ask the U.S. to change Japan’s stance.”
“我们警告他们，中国一直对朴槿惠非常友善，”首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的国际研究副教授韩硕熙(Han Suk-hee)说。上个月，他作为韩国代表团成员在华盛顿待了三天，解释韩国对日本的不满。“韩国认为，我们有正当的道德理由要求美国让日本改变立场。”
The campaigning in the United States had begun heating up last summer, when Korean-American groups persuaded the city of Glendale, Calif., near Los Angeles, to build a bronze statue of a “comfort woman” similar to a statue activists erected on a sidewalk outside the Japanese Embassy in Seoul. Alarmed, Japanese right-wing politicians visited to press for removal of the statue, which the city has refused to do.
双方在美国的公关战于去年夏天开始白热化。当时，韩裔美国人团体说服加州洛杉矶附近的格伦代尔市，在当地修建一座纪念“慰安妇”的铜像，类似于活动人士在日本驻首尔大使馆外的人行道上竖起的那尊雕像。心生警惕的几名日本右翼政坛人士到访，要求移除这尊铜像，但遭到了该市的拒绝。
Activists in South Korea fought back by supporting Korean-American groups with historical literature and other evidence, including a visit by an 87-year-old comfort woman to the city for the statue’s unveiling. Japanese and Korean officials said the campaigns were independent and were not financed by their governments.
韩国的活动人士还以颜色，他们为韩裔美国人团体提供了历史文献等证据，还邀请一名87岁的慰安妇亲临现场为铜像揭幕。日韩两国的官员声称，这些公关活动为独立行为，没有得到政府的资助。