SEOUL, South Korea — The leaders of South Korea and Japan called on Monday for their countries to leave behind historical disputes and improve ties, a rare exchange of conciliatory remarks that came as the leaders observed the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations at embassy events in their capitals.
韩国首尔——本周一，韩国和日本领导人呼吁大家搁置历史争端，改善日韩关系。两国领导人各自在本国首都的使馆参加纪念日韩建交50周年时的仪式，并发表了罕见的和解性言论。
Ties have been so strained in recent years over issues rooted in Japan’s colonial rule of Korea in the early 20th century that the attendance of the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, at a reception hosted by the Japanese Embassy in Seoul and that of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at a corresponding ceremony in Tokyo are being hailed as a rare triumph.
近年来，日本20世纪初在朝鲜半岛进行殖民统治遗留下来的问题，令日韩关系变得非常紧张，因此韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)在首尔出席日本大使馆举行的招待会，和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在东京参加相应的仪式，被视为是一个难得的积极信号。
“What is important is to ensure that circumstances are put in place that allow us to free ourselves of the heavy burden of history, our single greatest impediment, in the spirit of reconciliation and harmony,” Ms. Park said during the ceremony attended by the heads of other foreign missions to South Korea, including the American ambassador, Mark W. Lippert.
“重要的是，要本着和解、和睦的精神，创造合适的条件，让我们从历史的沉重负担中解脱出来，那是我们之间最重大的障碍，”朴槿惠在出席仪式时表示，其他驻韩外国使馆的负责人也参加了该仪式，其中包括美国大使马克·W·利伯特(Mark W. Lippert)。
In Tokyo, Mr. Abe emphasized shared “strategic interests” between the neighboring countries.
在东京，安倍晋三强调了这两个邻国之间存在共同的“战略利益”。
“If you look at the state of Northeast Asia, strengthening cooperation between Japan and South Korea, and among Japan, the United States and South Korea, is necessary not only for the peace and stability of our two countries, but the Asia-Pacific region,” he said during the reception arranged by the South Korean Embassy in Tokyo.
“看看东北亚地区的状况，你就会觉得，加强日韩合作，以及日美韩之间的合作是很有必要的，这不仅关系到我们两国的和平稳定，对亚太地区而言也是如此，”他在驻东京的韩国大使馆招待会上说。
Although the leaders’ presence at the ceremonies did not amount to a breakthrough concerning historical disputes, any signs of mending ties between the two American allies are welcome in Washington. The United States has repeatedly urged Japan and South Korea to improve ties at a time of regional anxiety over a more assertive China and a nuclear-armed North Korea.
尽管领导人出席仪式并不等于在解决历史争端的问题上有所突破，但美国这两个盟友之间关系的任何改善迹象，都是华盛顿所乐见的。在日益强硬的中国和拥有核武器的朝鲜令该地区感到焦虑之际，美国一再敦促日韩改善彼此关系。
Partly because of prodding from Washington, South Korean and Japanese officials have been talking for months about laying the groundwork for Ms. Park and Mr. Abe to hold their first summit meeting — although there is no immediate breakthrough in sight.
由于华盛顿的敦促以及其他因素，韩国和日本官员已经进行了几个月的会谈，为朴槿惠和安倍晋三举行第一次首脑会议奠定基础——尽管短期内不会马上取得突破。
South Korea remains adamant that Japan has not properly atoned for its wartime past, especially its recruitment of Koreans and other Asians as sex slaves, or so-called comfort women, for its military-run brothels during World War II. Japan has insisted that such matters were settled when a treaty normalizing their ties was signed 50 years ago on Monday.
韩国仍然坚定地表示，日本没有为其战时的历史赎罪，尤其是二战期间，日本为军方经营的妓院招募朝鲜人和其他亚洲人充当性奴隶，即慰安妇的历史。日本本周一坚称，这种问题在50年前签署两国关系正常化关系的条约时就已经解决。
The two leaders’ decision to attend the ceremonies on Monday was announced after Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se of South Korea met with his Japanese counterpart, Fumio Kishida, in Tokyo on Sunday. The two agreed to seek a three-way summit meeting with China by the end of the year. Such a meeting would include the first full-fledged one-on-one meeting between Ms. Park and Mr. Abe, officials in Seoul said.
两位领导人决定出席本周一仪式的消息，是上周日韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)在东京会见日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)之后宣布的。双方同意谋求在今年年底与中国进行三方首脑会晤，首尔官员说，该会晤的一个环节将是朴槿惠和安倍晋三首次进行正式的一对一次会谈。
As part of the 1965 treaty, Japan provided $800 million in grants and cheap loans that South Korea used in building highways and factories. But the treaty was signed amid widespread protests in South Korea, where memories of brutal colonial rule remained raw and anti-Japanese sentiments still formed part of Koreans’ national identity.
依照1965年的条约，日本向韩国提供了8亿美元的赠款和低息贷款，韩国用那笔钱修建了高速公路和工厂。但是，该条约在韩国遭到了广泛抗议，因为残酷殖民统治的记忆依然鲜活，反日情绪已经成为了了韩国民族认同感的一个部分。
Although the two countries have since become significant trading partners, they have continued to bicker over a set of islets held by South Korea but also claimed by Japan, as well as over the issue of the sex slaves.
虽然之后两国成为了重要的贸易伙伴，但在双方都自称拥有主权的一系列岛屿，以及慰安妇问题上，两国的争端一直在持续。
Relations have worsened under Ms. Park and Mr. Abe, who took office within months of each other in early 2013 and late 2012.
朴槿惠和安倍晋三分别于2013年初和2012年年底就任之后，日韩关系出现了进一步恶化。
South Koreans have complained that under Japan’s nationalist prime minister, the nation has played down responsibility for the enslavement of the women while revising textbooks to glorify its history of aggression.
韩国人抱怨说，在民族主义者安倍晋三当政期间，日本不仅对为奴役妇女的责任轻描淡写，而且还修改教科书来美化侵略历史。
For their part, many Japanese have accused South Korea of being unreasonable for repeatedly demanding an apology they feel their country has already offered. Ethnic Koreans in Japan, many of them descendants of forced laborers, have recently become a target of hate speech from right-wing extremists there.
另一方面，很多日本人指责韩国蛮不讲理，要求日本在他们觉得已经道过歉的事情上反复道歉。居住在日本的朝鲜族人很多都是强迫劳工的后裔，最近他们成为了日本右翼极端分子发泄仇恨言论的靶子。
The chances of a summit meeting depends largely on whether the two governments can narrow their differences over the issue of the sex slaves, officials here said.
相关官员表示，首脑会议的状况在很大程度上取决于日韩政府能否缩小他们在慰安妇问题上的分歧。