In the courtly world of diplomacy, the meeting between Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and President Park Geun-hye of South Korea was something of a shock.
在彬彬有礼的外交世界中，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的会晤令人震惊。
Mr. Hagel was in the region to try to revitalize America’s faltering “pivot” to Asia and had one especially pressing request for Ms. Park: to try to get along better with Japan. The steely Ms. Park instead delivered a lecture about Japan’s “total absence of sincerity” over the suffering that imperial Japan caused Korea in the last century and finished with a request of her own: that Washington force Tokyo to behave.
哈格尔之所以出访该地区，是要试图重振美国摇摇欲坠的“转向”亚洲策略，并且他还向朴槿惠提出了一个尤其迫切的请求：让她努力和日本搞好关系。然而，铁娘子朴槿惠却给他上了一堂课，主题是日本在面对日本帝国上世纪给韩国造成的痛苦时“毫无诚意”，并在最后也提出了自己的请求：希望华盛顿迫使东京变得规矩一些。
“If Germany had continued to say things that inflicted pain, while acting as if all was well, would European integration have been possible?” she asked Mr. Hagel. “I think the answer is no.”
“如果德国在从前不断发表一些让人痛苦的言论，同时还表现得仿佛一切正常，欧洲的融合可能实现吗？”朴槿惠问哈格尔。“我认为答案是否定的。”
Ms. Park’s refusal to budge during that September meeting was one of many recent reminders that the leaders of Japan and South Korea, the United States’ closest military partners in Asia, seem to be barely on speaking terms. Analysts say the current tensions are among the worst in recent years, an increasingly vexing problem for the Obama administration as it struggles to present a united front in dealing with a rising China and a nuclear North Korea.
9月那次会晤上朴槿惠的拒绝退让，是最近发生的多桩类似事件之一，提醒人们美国在亚洲最亲密的军事伙伴日本和韩国的领导人，似乎关系非常不好。分析人士称，目前两国关系处于近年来最紧张的时刻之一，这让奥巴马政府愈加苦恼，因为它正在努力组成一个统一前线来应对崛起的中国和拥有核计划的朝鲜。
This month, a rare meeting of Japan’s and South Korea’s top defense officials ended in an impasse, with harsh words and no progress on an intelligence-sharing deal the United States had been pushing for years.
本月，日本和韩国的高层国防官员举行了罕见会晤，会晤最终陷入僵局。双方言辞强硬，也未能在一项美国推动多年的情报交换协定上取得进展。
Ms. Park went so far as bringing China into the fracas, even as the Japanese and Chinese feuded over disputed islands. She asked China’s leader during a summit meeting to erect a monument to a Korean national hero who assassinated the first prime minister of Japan for his role in the Japanese colonization of Korea. The Chinese complied. It has also not been lost on the Japanese that Ms. Park held the summit meeting with China’s leader while she continued to refuse to do the same with Japan’s prime minister, breaking a longstanding tradition of Korean and Japanese leaders meeting soon after taking office.
朴槿惠甚至不惜把中国拉入这场纷争，而日本和中国在争议岛屿主权上积怨已久。在一次峰会上，她要求中国领导人为一名朝鲜民族英雄建一个纪念碑，这个人刺杀了日本第一任首相，原因是后者在日本对朝鲜半岛实施殖民统治期间所扮演的角色。中国同意了朴槿惠的请求。日本也会注意到，朴槿惠和中国领导人举行了峰会，但却一直拒绝和日本首相举行同样的会晤，从而打破了日本和韩国领导人上任后不久就举行会晤的长期传统。
“History issues are having impacts on us and our alliances in Asia in ways that we never anticipated,” said Thomas Berger, an associate professor of international relations at Boston University.
“历史问题给我们和我们的亚洲同盟带来了意想不到的影响，”波士顿大学(Boston University)的国际关系学副教授托马斯·伯杰(Thomas Berger)说。
While history has long haunted relations between Japan and South Korea, the recent chill is being driven partly by the very pivot to Asia that increasingly makes the administration anxious that its allies get along. To bolster its attempts to contain China’s territorial ambitions, the United States has supported Japan’s moves to strengthen its armed forces despite South Korea’s fear that Japan is reverting to militarism.
虽然长期以来，历史问题一直在困扰日韩关系，但最近两国关系的降温部分上却正是源于美国转向亚洲的策略，在这一策略指导下，奥巴马政府越来越迫不及待地想让它的同盟国搞好关系。为加大限制中国领土扩张野心的努力，美国对日本加强军事力量的举措表示支持，尽管韩国担心日本的军国主义正在复活。
But beyond the policy irritants, the frustrations in the two countries seem very much rooted in the personal history of their new, and conservative, leaders.
不过除了政策原因，两国间对彼此的不满似乎还主要来源于它们新上任的保守派领导人的个人经历。
The Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, is a rightist who has long sought to have his country’s World War II-era history portrayed in a more positive light. He is driven, analysts say, by a deep desire to exonerate his grandfather, an architect of Japanese empire-building in the 1930s who was eventually arrested as a war criminal by Japan’s American occupiers, before becoming prime minister.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)来自右翼，长期以来，他都一直在寻求以更加正面的角度展现日本的二战史。分析人士称，他之所以这么做，是因为内心深处他特别渴望为外祖父洗去罪名。在20世纪30年代的日本帝国扩张过程中，安倍的外祖父是主要设计者之一，并最终作为一名战犯被占领日本的美国人逮捕，但在此后成为了日本首相。
Ms. Park carries her own historical baggage. As the daughter of Park Chung-hee, a military ruler who served as an officer in the Imperial Japanese Army while Korea was still a colony, she is under constant pressure to distance herself from her father’s ties to Japan.
朴槿惠背负着自己的历史包袱。她是军事统治者朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)之女，朴正熙曾在韩国沦为殖民地期间担任大日本帝国陆军(Imperial Japanese Army)的军官。因此，朴槿惠一直面临压力，将自己和父亲与日本的关系隔离开来。
“Neither Park nor Abe can come together for personal reasons that run across generations,” said Mikio Haruna, a politics professor at Waseda University in Tokyo. “And this fact is driving Washington up a wall.”
“由于面对来自几代人的家族问题，朴槿惠和安倍晋三无法走到一起，”东京早稻田大学(Waseda University)政治学教授春名干男(Mikio Haruna)说。“这个事实让华盛顿方面感到非常难受。”
The lack of communication, analysts and American officials say, has practical ramifications, including a setback of American efforts to nudge the two countries’ militaries to work together. Such cooperation, which is very limited, would be crucial during any regional conflict.
分析人士及美国官员表示，交流的缺乏带来了实际后果，比如美国推动双方军队合作的举措遭遇了挫折。出现地区冲突时，这种十分有限的合作将发挥关键作用。
“The headwind created by these tensions over history raise the political cost of Japan-Korea cooperation that should be a given,” said Daniel R. Russel, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs.
负责东亚及太平洋地区事务的助理国务卿丹尼尔·R·拉塞尔(Daniel R. Russel)表示，“历史问题引发了紧张局势，由此掀起的逆风增加了日韩合作的政治成本，而这种合作本应毫无悬念。”
For its part, South Korea wants to avoid any regional conflict and is reluctant to take sides in the rising tensions between China, its largest trading partner, and Japan, its third largest.
韩国方面希望避免地区冲突，不愿在日益加剧的中日紧张关系中站边，前者是韩国最大的贸易伙伴，后者是韩国第三大贸易伙伴。
Initially, American analysts say, much of the blame in Washington for the troubled Japan-South Korea relationship fell on Mr. Abe, viewed by some as a dangerous nationalist. But the analysts say that has been changing, especially since the Hagel meeting.
美国分析人士表示，起初，华盛顿方面将日韩关系困境的主要责任归咎于安倍晋三，一些人将他视作危险的民族主义者。但分析人士表示，情况发生了变化，特别是哈格尔与朴瑾惠举行会晤之后。
Analysts say that there is no personal bad blood between Ms. Park and Mr. Abe, that any Korean leader would feel pressure to take a hard line with Mr. Abe, who has long denied that the Japanese military had a direct role in coercing so-called Korean comfort women to provide sex to soldiers during World War II — a particularly fraught issue for South Koreans. And relations began on difficult footing. According to South Korean officials, Ms. Park — who had called for stabilizing South Korea-Japan relations during her presidential campaign — became deeply upset when Taro Aso, the No. 2 man in the Abe cabinet, visited Seoul for her inauguration and, they said, told her that there was no big difference between the Yasukuni Shrine, where some convicted war criminals are honored, and Arlington National Cemetery.
分析人士表示，朴瑾惠与安倍之间没有个人恩怨，任何韩国领导人都会有这种压力，都会对安倍采取强硬态度，后者一直否认日本军队在二战期间曾直接插手，迫使所谓的韩国慰安妇为士兵提供性服务。而慰安妇问题是一个让韩国人备感痛苦的问题。其实，两者在交往之初就并不顺利。据韩国官员透露，朴瑾惠曾在总统竞选活动中呼吁稳定韩日关系。但他们表示，安倍内阁的二号人物麻生太郎(Taro Aso)到访韩国参加朴瑾惠的就职典礼期间，告诉朴瑾惠，靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)和阿灵顿国家公墓(Arlington National Cemetery)没有太大区别，朴瑾惠因此深感不快。靖国神社供奉着一些被定罪的战犯。
Mr. Abe has not visited the shrine since taking office but has sent offerings on special days, feeding South Korean suspicions that although he has toned down his rhetoric, his hawkish stances have not changed.
安倍晋三就职以来还没有参拜过靖国神社，但他会在特别的日子送去供品，该举动引起韩国的怀疑——虽然安倍的言辞有所缓和，但他的强硬立场从未改变。
But the legacy of the collaboration by Ms. Park’s father makes it even tougher for her to compromise, experts say. “For President Park, the negative legacy carries a huge domestic political risk,” said Park Cheol-hee, director of the Institute for Japanese Studies at Seoul National University.
专家表示，朴瑾惠父亲的通敌历史致使她更难做出妥协。首尔大学(Seoul National University)日本研究所(Institute for Japanese Studies)所长朴喆熙表示，“对于朴瑾惠总统来说，这种负面影响有着巨大的国内政治风险。”
Korean leaders have made it clear that ties can be improved only if the Japanese prime minister admits to greater government responsibility for past offenses and agrees to pay compensation to the surviving “comfort women.”
韩国领导人已经表明，关系可以改善，但前提是日本首相要承认日本政府为过去的罪行担负更大责任，并同意赔偿那些依然健在的“慰安妇”。
That may be the one thing Mr. Abe cannot do. This is also a highly emotional issue for the Japanese ultraconservatives who form his political base; the nationalists see it as a fabrication used to help paint their nation as the villain in World War II. (Their take is that Japan was fighting to liberate Asia from European and American imperialism.)
这或许是安倍无法做到的一件事情。对于他的政治根基——极端保守主义者，这也是一个可以激起强烈情绪的问题。这些民族主义者认为，这是一个旨在将日本描绘为二战罪人的谎言。（他们认为日本是为了使亚洲摆脱欧美帝国主义的统治而战。）
Referring to the historical entanglements, Mr. Berger said, “These are chronic problems that only seem to be getting worse.”
谈及复杂的历史问题，伯杰说，“这些长期问题似乎只会变得更糟。”