TOKYO — The leaders of South Korea and Japan faced a barrage of criticism on Tuesday from nationalists upset about a landmark deal aimed at resolving a dispute over Korean women who had been pressed into sexual servitude in Japanese military brothels before and during World War II.
东京——周二，韩国和日本领导人遭到民族主义者的大量批评，后者对一项具有里程碑性质的协议感到恼火，该协议旨在解决有关朝鲜半岛女性在二战之前和期间被迫在日本军妓所做性奴的争端。
President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan had long cultivated reputations as hard-liners in their countries' recurring battles over history. While Park had demanded that Japan do more to atone for its 35 years of colonial rule on the Korean Peninsula, Abe had suggested that Japanese rule was less brutal than Koreans say it was.
众所周知，在两国针对历史问题反复出现的较量方面，韩国总统朴槿惠和日本首相安倍晋三长久以来都表现得比较强硬。朴槿惠曾要求日本做更多努力，以弥补它在朝鲜半岛进行35年殖民统治期间所犯的过错，但安倍晋三暗示，日本的殖民统治并不像韩国人所描述的那么残酷。
In recent years, their stances had deepened the conflict but won support from self-declared patriots at home.
最近几年，他们各自的强硬立场使这一冲突进一步加深，但却使他们赢得了各自国家那些自称为爱国者的人士的支持。
So the compromise agreement announced on Monday, in which Japan offered a new apology and $8.3 million to help care for surviving victims — in return for a South Korean promise not to press any future claims — seemed to some observers to borrow a page from the diplomatic playbook of Richard M. Nixon. They drew comparisons to the former U.S. president's decision to seek détente with China in 1972, a move that was both surprising and politically feasible given his longstanding anti-Communist credentials.
因此，在一些观察者看来，周一达成的这项有妥协意味的协议——日本向韩国受害者做出新的道歉，并提供830万美元资金用于帮助照顾幸存受害者，作为交换，韩国将承诺不再就此问题向日本施压，要求新的赔偿——似乎是借鉴了理查德·M·尼克松过去的外交策略。观察者们将这一协议和美国前总统尼克松在1972年做出的寻求缓和中美关系的决策相类比，考虑到尼克松有长期反共记录，该举措在当时让外界感到意外，但它在政治上是可行的。
Yet the apparently sudden change of course by Park and Abe has inevitably left some feeling betrayed. And analysts said it carried unequal political risks, with Park facing a fiercer backlash, in part because the surviving women themselves said they had no voice in shaping the diplomatic deal.
但是，朴槿惠和安倍晋三看似突兀的立场转变，却不可避免地会让一些人感到遭到了背叛。一些分析人士还表示，这项协议给二人带来的风险大小并不相同，朴槿惠将面临更强烈的反对，部分原因在于幸存的慰安妇表示，她们未能在这项外交协议的打造中发表任何意见。
“Which country do you belong to?” Lee Yong-su, 88, shouted at Lim Sung-nam, the first vice foreign minister of South Korea, as he entered a shelter for the women in Seoul, a visit arranged by Park's government as part of a damage-control effort, according to the Yonhap News Agency. “You could have at least let us know what kind of deal you were striking with Japan.”
“你是哪个国家的？至少该让我们知道，你们正在和日本谈什么样的协议。”据韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap News Agency)报道，88岁的李永洙（Lee Yong-su，音）在韩国第一副外交部长林成南(Lim Sung-nam)走进首尔一座慰安妇庇护所时，这样对他愤怒地喊道。这次会面是朴槿惠政府的安排，是该政府为进行损害控制所做的努力之一。
Only 46 Korean women who said they were among the tens of thousands who were forced to work in brothels from the early 1930s until 1945 are still alive, and they are reported to object that the money offered by Japan did not take the form of official reparations, which would carry an acknowledgment of legal as well as moral responsibility, but instead were presented as a humanitarian contribution.
据称韩国有数以万计的女性在1930年代初至1945年间被迫在日本军妓所服务，她们中现在只有46人还活着。媒体报道称，她们拒绝接受日本不是以正式的战争赔款形式提供的资金，因为那无法体现出法律上的认罪和道德上的责任承担。而在周一达成的协议中，日本只是以人道主义援助的形式提供资金。
And although the two governments did not see the amount paid as being as important as putting the issue to rest, many found the $8.3 million — roughly $180,000 per survivor — insulting.
尽管在两国政府看来，赔偿金额并不像了结此事那么重要，但有不少人觉得830万美元的数额——平均下来每名幸存者只有大约18万美元——称得上是一种侮辱。
“That's really stingy,” said Lee Sung-yoon, a professor in Korean studies at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. “You know what you get for a personal injury lawsuit after spilling hot coffee on yourself in America?”
“这真的显得很吝啬，”塔夫斯大学弗莱彻法律与外交学院(Fletcher School of Lawand Diplomacy at Tufts University)的朝韩研究教授李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)说。“你知道在美国因为热咖啡撒在自己身上而引发的人身伤害诉讼可以得到多少赔偿吗？”
He continued: “Victims of systematic and widespread rape or, in today's parlance, crime against humanity, deserve much more than that.”
他接着说：“有系统的持续强奸行为，或按照今天的说法，即反人类罪行，所需付出的赔偿远远大过那个数字。”
Lee said Park's political foes could now paint her as “a pro-Japanese collaborator, as they already have her father.” Her father, the former military dictator Park Chung-hee, had served as an officer in the Japanese Imperial Army.
李成允表示，朴槿惠的政治对手现在可以把她描述成“亲日通敌者，就像他们曾经对她父亲所做的那样。”朴槿惠的父亲、前韩国军事独裁者朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)在日据时期曾经担任日本帝国陆军军官。
In the South Korean Parliament, some opposition lawmakers called for an apology from Park and the resignation of Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se on Tuesday, holding them responsible for what at least one lawmaker called a “traitorous” deal.
周二，韩国国会中一些反对派立法代表要求朴槿惠道歉，要求韩国外交部长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)辞职，他们认为二人对这项协议的签署负有责任，至少一名立法代表说这是一个“叛国”协议。
Abe also faced criticism after the deal, though analysts said he would probably gain more support from moderate Japanese voters than he would lose from the far right.
协议签署后，安倍晋三也遭到不少批评，不过分析人士表示，相比于因此失去的极右翼选民，他可能会获得更多温和派日本选民的支持。
Some right-wing members of Abe's governing Liberal Democratic Party insisted that the prime minister press Park to remove what they consider a provocative anti-Japanese symbol: the statue of a girl representing the “comfort women” that was installed by a civic group in front of the Japanese Embassy in Seoul.
安倍晋三领导的执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)中有一些右翼成员坚持认为，日本首相应该迫使朴槿惠去除被他们看作是具有挑衅意味的一个反日象征：某民间组织放置在位于首尔的日本驻韩大使馆门前的一座雕像，这是一个代表着“慰安妇”的女孩形象。