Last month Japanese officials once again visited the controversial Yasukuni Shrine, which many Asians deplore as a symbol of Japan’s militaristic past. Soon afterward, South Korea celebrated a law passed in 1900 that claimed sovereignty over the Liancourt Rocks, a disputed outcropping in the waters between the countries.
上月，日本官员再次参拜备受争议的靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)。许多亚洲人强烈谴责这座神社，认为它象征着日本的军国主义历史。之后不久，韩国庆祝了1900年通过的一项法律，该法律宣布它对两国之间水域有争议的利扬库尔岩(Liancourt Rocks)享有主权。
Animosity between Japan and Korea is nothing new. But these latest events have taken relations to a new low and threaten American interests just as President Obama has embarked on a new effort to improve Washington’s position in the region.
日韩彼此仇视并不是什么新鲜事。但最近这些事件已让两国关系跌至新低，并威胁到了美国的利益，而此时奥巴马总统正在采取新措施，意图提升美国在该地区的地位。
Korean-Japanese tensions date from Japan’s invasion of the Korean Peninsula in the late 16th century. But the sorest point remains Japan’s 35-year occupation of Korea through the end of World War II. Japan may have lost the war, but the Japanese have maintained an attitude of national superiority over Koreans, which is matched by a Korean sense of resentment and outrage.
韩日之间的紧张关系要追溯到16世纪末日本对朝鲜半岛的入侵，但最重要的问题依然是日本对朝鲜半岛长达35年的占领，直到二战结束。日本或许输了那场战争，但日本人在面对韩国人时仍有一种民族优越感，而相应的，韩国人也对日本人心存怨恨和愤怒。
Under the pressures of the Cold War, and with a significant push by the United States, the two countries normalized political relations in 1965 and managed to forge security and economic cooperation. And while occasional flare-ups occurred over Japanese history textbooks or insensitive remarks by politicians, this cooperation extended well into the post-Cold War years.
1965年，在冷战的压力和美国的大力推动下，两国实现邦交正常化，建立了安全和经济合作。尽管日本历史教科书和政界人士的一些不当言论偶尔会引发冲突，但这种合作关系延续到了后冷战时期。
This time is different. The latest strains come after a series of relations-eroding developments: The two countries have not renewed a currency-swap agreement, have shelved free-trade talks and have failed to complete two defense agreements.
不过，这次情况有所不同。最近的紧张局势是一系列影响关系的事态发展所导致的：两国没有延长双边货币互换协议，搁置了自由贸易谈判，也未能完成两项防务协议。
At the recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Indonesia, the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, were seated next to each other but did not talk. When the American defense secretary, Chuck Hagel, raised the importance of Seoul-Tokyo cooperation in a private meeting with Ms. Park, she dressed him down with a history lesson.
在近日于印度尼西亚举行的亚太经济合作组织(Asia-PacificEconomic Cooperation)峰会上，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)比邻而坐却没有交谈。当美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)在与朴槿惠举行的私人会谈中提到韩日两国合作的重要性时，朴槿惠以谴责的态度提醒了他历史的教训。
Meanwhile, South Koreans are nervous over Mr. Abe’s plans for a stronger Japanese military, which they fear could be used for offensive operations (currently prohibited by the Japanese Constitution).
与此同时，韩国对安倍晋三加强日本军力的计划深感不安，他们担心日本可能会将其用于进攻行动（当前，进攻行为为日本宪法所禁止）。
Should these tensions continue, and deepen, they could undermine President Obama’s “pivot” to Asia. Without defense cooperation between South Korea and Japan, the United States cannot respond effectively to North Korea’s nuclear and missile provocations.
如果这种紧张局势继续下去并进一步加深，它们可能会破坏奥巴马总统“转向”亚洲的策略。如果韩国和日本之间不进行防务合作，美国就无法有效应对朝鲜的核挑衅和导弹威胁。
While the trilateral alliance does not seek to contain China, the absence of cooperation among the three like-minded allies on everything from cybersecurity to missile defense inhibits America’s capacity to shape China’s rise in constructive ways.
尽管美日韩三国联盟不是为了遏制中国，但如果这三个志趣相投的盟友在从网络安全到导弹防御的各个方面都缺乏合作，就会妨碍美国以具有建设性的方式影响中国崛起的能力。
And the United States cannot work as effectively on a host of global issues, including climate change, international development, nuclear security and free trade without the cooperation of these two major economies.
而且，如果没有这两个主要经济体的合作，美国便无法在包括气候变化、国际发展、核安全和自由贸易在内的诸多全球性问题上采取有效行动。
In the past, Washington forged cooperation by more or less forcing the countries to do its bidding. But the perceived balance between the countries has shifted significantly, especially from the Korean perspective.
过去，美国或多或少会通过强迫这两个国家尊重它的要求，来促成合作。但现在，两国间的这种平衡已被严重打破了，尤其是在韩国人看来。
After decades of stagnation, Japan is awakening under a reinvigorated prime minister who has stimulated the economy and pushed national security reforms, boldly claiming, “Japan is back.”
在停滞不前数十年后，日本正在一位充满活力的首相的带领下觉醒，他刺激了经济发展，并力推国家安全改革，高调宣称，“日本回来了。”
During Japan’s stagnation, however, South Korea transformed itself. Not only did it become a complex democracy, but it is now the world’s 15th largest economy, with companies that outperform their Japanese rivals. South Korea now views Japan as a declining power.
然而，在日本的停滞期，韩国有了翻天覆地的变化。它不仅变成了一个复杂的民主国家，如今也已成为世界第15大经济体，该国一些企业的表现也优于它们的日本同行。韩国现在将日本视为一个衰落中的国家。
The difficult relations between the two countries are partly rooted in the expediencies of a 1945 peace settlement engineered by the United States, which eventually made Japan the bulwark of American Cold War security in Asia.
从某些方面来说，两国之间的紧张关系源于一项1945年的和平协议，这本是美国人策划的权宜之计，最终使得日本成为冷战期间美国在亚洲的坚强堡垒。
The solution today, however, is not to rewrite yesterday’s agreements. The United States must continue to press for pragmatic cooperation, but with a new approach that focuses on three issues.
然而，如今的解决方案并不是要改写过去的协议。美国必须继续争取务实的合作，与此同时采用一种新方式，强调三项问题。
For one, the United States should recognize that even while Asian governments make difficulties over perceived historical slights, their publics care less and less about them. Our polling research in South Korea, for example, shows that only 8 percent of those questioned rank historical and territorial issues as the primary determinant of their voting behavior.
首先，美国应该认清，即便亚洲政府仍然因历史上的屈辱而耿耿于怀，并不断制造事端，它们的民众对这些已经越来越不在乎了。例如，我们在韩国所做的民意调查显示，只有8%的受访民众将历史和领土问题作为他们投票行为的首要决定因素。
South Korean leaders have typically cited public disgust over such slights as a reason closer cooperation with Japan won’t work. Clearly that’s wrong — and the United States can push them to stop using it as a crutch.
韩国领导人一贯声称，与日本的更紧密合作无法实现的一个原因就是公众对于这些过往的屈辱仍抱有怨恨。这明显是不正确的，美国可以施压，要求它们停止使用此种借口。
Washington should also push Tokyo to be more open about its foreign policy goals. Japan must reach out to its neighbors, perhaps through a special envoy, to discuss the intentions behind Mr. Abe’s defense plans. Doing so would improve regional trust and most likely lead to mutually beneficial defense cooperation.
华盛顿也应该推动东京在外交政策目标的制定上采取更为开放的态度。日本必须与它的邻国交流，或许是通过一位特使来进行，讨论安倍晋三防务计划背后的意图。这么做将增进地区信任，很可能会达成互利的防务合作计划。
Finally, the United States should encourage Japanese good faith in resolving the biggest historical sticking point, comfort women. The practice of conscripting young girls as sexual slaves for the Japanese Imperial Army during World War II requires a formal acknowledgment and apology. Mr. Abe should also meet with some of the survivors.
最后，美国应该鼓励日本人拿出诚意，来解决那个最严重的历史症结——慰安妇问题。在二战期间日本皇军征召年轻女性作为性奴，日本政府需要正式承认这种行为，并为之道歉。安倍晋三也应该与一些仍然在世的慰安妇见面。
While Asian publics do not rate historical issues as highly as politicians believe, anger on this particular issue is universal. Japan’s long-running practice of accepting the existence of such practices but denying the government’s involvement irreparably stains the country’s reputation in the international court of public opinion.
虽然亚洲民众并不像政客们以为的那样，对历史问题那么在意，但人们却普遍对这一问题充满愤怒。日本长期以来的做法是，承认此种行为的存在，但否认政府与之有任何干系，这种态度不可避免地破坏了日本在国际公众舆论领域的名誉。
The United States cannot “pivot” to Asia while remaining silent on the historical issues that most vex the region. Resolving these tensions would not only demonstrate America’s influence but would also remove a barrier to the further expansion of American power in the region.
这些历史问题最让该地区感到恼火，美国无法在对它们保持沉默的同时“转向”亚洲。而解决这种对立不仅仅会展示出美国的影响力，还会为美国进一步在该地区拓展影响力扫除障碍。