When Thomas Sauvin shows his work to friends in Beijing who don’t study photography, they are often surprised, and a bit confused, by the pictures he collects. To them, they are familiar — and boring.
当苏文(Thomas Sauvin)向不学摄影的北京朋友展示作品的时候，他们往往对他搜集的照片很惊讶，还有一丝困惑。在他们看来，这些照片太熟悉了而显得没有新意。
He understands that. After all, he found his collection in the garbage. Mr. Sauvin, an editor who has lived in Beijing for a decade, has amassed a collection from discarded negatives. The photos trigger familiar — if not fading — memories: a picture of a young girl on a red Xin Fu motorcycle, for instance (Slide 12), or a shot of a T-shirt that was popular in the early 1990s.
他理解这一点。毕竟，他的收藏来自垃圾堆。苏文在北京生活了10年，身为编辑的他从丢弃的底片中攒出了一批藏品。这些照片能激起亲切的回忆，如果这种回忆还没有褪色的话：比方说，小女孩骑在红色的幸福牌摩托上（幻灯片12），或者上世纪90年代初流行的T-恤衫。
“Sometimes people don’t expect this from photography,” he said. “They want to travel from photography. They want to see things they’ve never seen. They want to see things with a new angle.”
“有时候，大家心目中的摄影作品不是这样的，”苏文说。“他们希望能跟着照片旅行，想看从没见过的东西，想从新角度来审视事物。”
That is not what Mr. Sauvin is seeking. He is working on “Silvermine,” a project that looks at hundreds of thousands of negatives, mostly personal and family photos, that have been rescued from Beijing’s trash. From so many different lives, he sees the same story time and again.
这不是苏文的追求。他目前的项目《银矿》(Silvermine)搜罗了数十万张从北京垃圾堆里拯救出来的底片，大多是个人照和家庭照。从人数这样庞大的不同生命中，他一再看到同样的故事。
The beauty of the repetition found in the “Silvermine” photos — subjects standing still, at a distance, often in the center of the frame — comes out in an animation produced by LeiLei, a Chinese artist who teamed with Mr. Sauvin, sewing the pictures together at a rate of about eight per second. The same pose, and the same setting, appear over and over, from people perching on a Ronald McDonald statue to proud stances at major destinations.
从《银矿》系列照片中发掘出来的重复之美在雷磊制作的一则动画中体现了出来。照片中的人物静止站在离镜头有一定距离的地方，一般都处于画面正中。雷磊是与苏文合作的中国艺术家，他在动画中以大约每秒八帧的速率将这些照片串起。同样的姿势、同样的背景，一次又一次地出现，不管是人们在麦当劳叔叔身上歇脚，还是各大景点前骄傲的站姿。
The project, which will appear next week at Derby’s Format International Photography Festival, started when Mr. Sauvin and the Archive of Modern Conflict, the collector and publisher for which he works, wanted to explore more “vernacular material,” like photo albums, hand-colored photographs and studio photographs. He thought it would be interesting to look at negatives, because amateur photographers often throw them away.
 《银矿》将于下周在英国德比举办的Format国际摄影节(Format International Photography Festival)上展出。苏文为出版商及收藏大量作品的现代冲突资料库(Archive of Modern Conflict)工作。《银矿》项目伊始，苏文及现代冲突资料库是想要搜寻更多的“民间素材”，比如相册、手工上色的照片和摄影棚照片。他觉得，看底片会很有趣，因为普通人往往会把它们扔掉。
In 2009, searching online for information about buying and collecting negatives, Mr. Sauvin kept seeing the name Xiao Ma on Chinese Web forums. Mr. Xiao recycled trash containing silver nitrates — including, but not limited to, negatives. The two met at a recycling zone north of Beijing, amid a large compound of brick buildings dedicated to different categories of castoffs. Mr. Xiao’s warehouse was filled with trash, from which he extracted silver nitrate to sell to laboratories.
2009年，在网上搜索购买和收藏底片的信息时，苏文不断在中文论坛上看到小马的名字。小马回收含有硝酸银的垃圾，范围不限于底片。两人在北京北面的回收厂碰头，那里有一大片砖房，专门用来处理不同种类的废弃物。小马的仓库里堆满了垃圾，他从中提炼硝酸银，然后再卖给实验室。
“It kind of broke my heart into many pieces,” Mr. Sauvin said, “And I just naturally told him, ‘You buy this by the kilo — just send it to me by the kilo, 10 times the price.’ ”
“我差不多心碎了一地，”苏文说。“但我只是很自然地跟他说，‘你是按斤买的，那就按斤卖给我，10倍的价格。’”
Now, Mr. Sauvin visits once every month or two, returning to his office with a load of negatives that he examines on his light table. Typically, he scans about 80 percent of them.
现在，苏文每一两个月光顾那里一次，带一大堆底片回办公室，在光台上仔细观看。他一般会扫描其中80%的底片。
At first, he was seeking “the impossible shot,” he said. He didn’t find it. After going through about 10,000 images, he realized that the task wasn’t about finding perfection.
他说，起初自己想找“不可思议的照片”。结果没找到。看了大概1万张之后，他意识到，目的并不在于寻找完美。
“There’s a big amount of very, very boring images,” said Mr. Sauvin, who looks at each one three or four times. But, he said, “a few images can stand out and wake you up, and that’s a good way to proceed, I think.”
“有一大堆非常非常无聊的照片，”苏文说。他会每张照片看上三四遍。不过他说，“少数照片可以脱颖而出，让你精神一振，我想这是个继续下去的好方法。”
Most of the photos are “three, two, one” shots — pictures of subjects standing completely still, looking straight into the lens. The pictures lack spontaneity, but they feel intimate in a way.
大多数照片是“三、二、一”的摆拍照，照片中的主人公站着纹丝不动，目光直视镜头。这类照片缺乏自然感，但它们在某种程度上让人觉得亲切。
The archive covers a short period, about 20 years from 1985 to 2005, when the digital camera and mobile photography started taking over. Most of the pictures do not have precise dates, but by studying hairstyles and fashion, as well as damage to the negatives, Mr. Sauvin can place them within a period of a few years. It helps that they come in sets, meaning he can use context, like a calendar on a wall or a street sign, to glean details about the photographer.
这批收藏覆盖了一个较短的时期，大约是从1985到2005年之间的20年，也就是结束在数码相机和手机摄影开始流行的时候。大部分照片没有准确的日期，但通过观察发型和时尚，以及底片的受损程度，苏文可以把它们的时间段缩小到几年之内。这些照片是成套的，这对他有帮助，意味着他可以利用照片的背景，例如墙上的日历或路标，来搜集有关拍照者的细节。
Mr. Sauvin doesn’t see many changes in the aesthetics of the pictures over the years. But he sees societal shifts. In the 1980s, film was accessible but still expensive, so people were taking pictures of so-called Kodak moments — babies being born, family gatherings, visits to Tiananmen Square.
在多年来拍摄的这些照片上，苏文看不到审美上的太多变化；但他看到了社会的转变。上世纪80年代，已能买到胶片，但仍很昂贵，所以人们会拍下所谓的“柯达时刻”(Kodak Moments)，也就是婴儿出生、家庭聚会和参观天安门广场的时刻。
As photography popularized and the quality of living increased for many Chinese, the images changed. “You feel like it’s not the father taking pictures anymore,” Mr. Sauvin said. “The kids are starting to take pictures, as well.”
随着摄影的普及，以及许多中国人生活水平的提高，照片也发生了变化。“你感到不再是由父亲来拍照了，”苏文说。“孩子们也开始拍照了。”
From more than half a million negatives, Mr. Sauvin has begun to see the images thematically. There is the refrigerator series: as more Chinese households began acquiring refrigerators in the late 1980s, women posed with their new appliances. And the Marilyn Monroe series, showing posters of the blond bombshell inside people’s homes.
从五十多万张底片中，苏文开始以不同主题为它们分类。有一个冰箱系列：随着越来越多的中国家庭开始在80年代末购买冰箱，女性会站在这种新电器前摆拍。还有玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)系列，展示出人们家中张贴的这名金发女郎的海报。
He hasn’t seen many photos of Chinese families going abroad in the 1980s. In the 90s, Thailand becomes a common destination — so common that Mr. Sauvin can describe the path the photos will take, concluding with a picture on the flight home.
他没有看到太多80年代中国家庭出国的照片。在90年代，泰国成为一个常见的旅游目的地，去的人太多了，以至于苏文可以描述出照片的拍摄路径，最后一张总是定格在回家的飞机上。
Mr. Sauvin, 29, has yet to do similar work outside of China. He grew up in Paris looking at the photographs of Marc Riboud, whose son Theo was his childhood friend. “We were always going to his studio to steal a few postcards,” he said, including pictures Mr. Riboud shot in China, where he began traveling in the late 1950s.
29岁的苏文还没在中国以外做过类似的工作。他在巴黎看着马克·里布(Marc Riboud)的照片长大，里布的儿子泰奥(Theo)是他儿时的朋友。“我们总是会去他的工作室偷几张明信片，”他说，其中包括里布在中国拍摄的照片。上世纪50年代末，里布开始了他的中国之旅。
Years later, in 2006, Mr. Sauvin took a job working as an assistant for the French curator Alain Jullien at the Lianzhou International Photo Festival in Guangdong Province. There, he met the director of the Archive of Modern Conflict, where he has been a consultant, collecting contemporary Chinese photography, since 2006.
在多年后的2006年，苏文在广东省连州国际摄影节的法国策展人阿兰·朱利安(Alain Jullien)那里找到了一份助理工作。在那里，他遇到了现代冲突资料库的社长，并从2006年起成为该社的顾问，负责搜集中国当代摄影作品。
Mr. Sauvin plans to keep working on “Silvermine” as long as there are negatives to be found. “It makes sense, for this project, to really witness the death of film photography in China,” he said. “It wouldn’t really make sense to stop now.”
只要还能找到底片，苏文就打算把《银矿》继续下去。“对这个项目来说，真实见证中国胶片摄影的消失非常有意义，”他说。“要是现在半途而废就真的可惜了。”
He sees his work as a counterpoint to the usual – and often negative – coverage about China in the foreign press and on Chinese social media.
他把自己的工作视为一种平衡，不同于外国媒体和中国社交媒体上对中国那种往往是负面的通常报道。
“It starts with birth, it ends with death,” he said of the collection. “It talks a bit about love. People go to the beach. People travel. They take blurry pictures, their negatives eventually get damaged. They are at home with posters of Marilyn Monroe. They have their photo shot with their refrigerator.”
谈到这一系列藏品时，他说，“它始于出生，终于死亡。其中谈了一点爱。人们去海滩、去旅游。他们拍出模糊的照片，底片最终会受损。他们的家中贴着玛丽莲·梦露的海报；他们和冰箱合影。”
It’s about life.
它与生活有关。