Robert Peruzzi was so determined to rent the fifth-floor walk-up he had seen on Irving Place that he was willing to outbid another potential tenant and pay $150 more than the original asking rent.
当初，罗伯特·佩鲁奇(Robert Peruzzi)毅然决然地要租下自己在尔文坊(Irving Place)看过的那套位于5楼的无电梯公寓。为此他甚至愿意与另一位有意向的租客竞价，在租金的初始要价基础上再添150美元（约合人民币910元）。
Mr. Peruzzi, 35, now shells out $3,450 a month for the one-bedroom, which has exposed brick, a fireplace and a vaulted ceiling. It is far pricier than one-bedrooms in several full-service elevator buildings in the same neighborhood.
现在，35岁的佩鲁奇每月支付3450美元（约合人民币2.09万元），租住在这套单卧室公寓里。屋内有裸露的墙砖、一座壁炉以及一个穹顶天花板。这套公寓比附近一些服务齐全且带电梯的大楼中的单卧公寓要贵得多。
“It was all the drama of a sale — for a fifth-floor walk-up,” said Corlie Ohl, the Citi Habitats broker who represented Mr. Peruzzi, a vice president for finance of an e-commerce company. “Unbelievable.”
“对于一套5楼的无电梯公寓来说，这真是次非常夸张交易，”花旗居屋(Citi Habitats)的房产经纪人科利耶·奥尔(Corlie Ohl)说。佩鲁奇是一家电子商务公司分管财务的副总裁，而奥尔是他当时的代理人。“难以置信。”
There may be plenty of developers battling to outdo one another with glassy skyscraper condominiums and over-the-top amenities, but their antics don’t seem to have affected one of the most time-honored forms of housing in the city, the walk-up apartment, which continues to hold its own. Indeed, over the past year, the average monthly rent for luxury walk-up one-bedrooms (those priced in the top 10 percent), rose 5.7 percent, while that for one-bedrooms in full-service elevator buildings increased just 0.5 percent, according to data from Citi Habitats.
也许有大量开发商正凭借玻璃幕墙的共管公寓(condominiums)摩天大楼和一流的配套设施，彼此一争高下。但是他们的疯狂行为似乎并没影响到在这座城市中久负盛名的另一类住宅：一直固守自我的无电梯公寓。的确，根据花旗居屋的数据，过去一年来，豪华无电梯单卧室公寓（即价格排在前10%的那些）的月平均租金上涨了5.7%；而服务齐全的电梯楼单卧公寓，却只增长了0.5%。
And the number of walk-ups sold over the past year has jumped nearly 64 percent, whereas the increase was 22 percent for units in full-service buildings, according to the appraisal firm Miller Samuel. Over the past year, Miller Samuel also found that the price of walk-ups has surged nearly 22 percent, versus less than 2 percent for units in full-service buildings.
根据房产评估公司Miller Samuel的数据，无电梯公寓的数量在过去一年已剧增将近64%，而全服务公寓数量的同比增长仅为22%。Miller Samuel公司还发现，过去一年里，无电梯公寓楼的价格已飙升了近22%，而全服务公寓楼的涨幅不到2%。
“There is a new generation of renters out there who don’t need a doorman, and want something unique and different,” said Jordan Sachs, the president of the real estate brokerage firm Bold New York. “Walk-ups can offer a wonderful combination of old prewar New York mixed with new design, and that can be hard to find in a cookie-cutter doorman building.”
“现在出现了一批新生代租客，他们并不需要门卫，而是想要一种独树一帜、与众不同的感觉，”房地产经纪公司Bold New York的总裁乔丹·萨克斯(Jordan Sachs)说，“无电梯公寓将战前纽约的旧貌同新式设计完美结合，那样的特色在千篇一律的门卫式公寓楼当中是很难找到的。”
While many developers are focused on erecting high-rises, at least one developer is hoping to capitalize on the popularity of walk-ups. Boris Drukker, the president of Borough Builders, could have put a seven-story elevator condominium on his site at 650 Bergen Street in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn. Instead, he opted for three walk-up buildings of three stories each.
当许多开发商还在一门心思兴建高楼大厦时，至少有一家开发商正期待将无电梯公寓的受欢迎转化为资本。建筑公司Borough Builders的总裁鲍里斯·德鲁克(Boris Drukker)，本可以在他所拥有的那块位于布鲁克林区(Brooklyn)展望高地(Prospect Heights)卑尔根大街(Bergen Street)650号的地块上，兴建一栋七层楼的配电梯共管公寓；但最后，他却盖了三栋无电梯的公寓楼，每栋都是三层。
“It is unusual,” Mr. Drukker said. “We didn’t build as large as we could have.” The reason for going small, he explained, was to keep the monthly carrying costs and taxes low, which in turn keeps the sales prices high.
“我们没有把楼盖得那么高，”德鲁克说，“这是不同寻常的做法。”他解释道，建造小型公寓楼的原因，是想把每个月的折旧成本和税费维持在较低水平，而让销售价格达到较高水平。
The units at 650 Bergen Street have 9.5-foot ceilings, radiant-heated flooring, gardens or balconies; they are priced at the upper end of the market, some for more than $1,000 a square foot. A 1,555-square-foot three-bedroom there, for example, is listed for $1.6 million.
卑尔根大街650号的这些公寓单元，都有9.5英尺（约3米）高的天花板、辐射式地暖以及花园或阳台。这些公寓的价位在市场中属于高端，其中一些单元每平方英尺的价格超过了1000美元（约合每平方米人民币6.6万元）。比如其中一套1555平方英尺（约144.5平方米）的3卧室公寓，售价为160万美元（约合人民币971.5万元）。
The average price for condominiums in Prospect Heights is $621 per square foot, according to Miller Samuel. 
根据Miller Samuel公司的数据，在展望高地，共管公寓的平均价格是每平方英尺621美元（约合每平方米人民币4.1万元）。
“If our units would have been smaller, the price per square foot would have been even higher,” said Brendan Aguayo, who is representing 650 Bergen Street as a senior vice president and managing director of Terra Development Marketing.
“如果我们的公寓面积再小一些，每平方英尺的单价甚至还会更高，”布兰登·阿瓜约(Brendan Aguayo)说。作为Terra Development Marketing公司的高级副总裁兼总经理，他代理着卑尔根大街650号的房产。
Because the building offers few amenities, requiring no salary for a doorman or upkeep for an elevator, Mr. Drukker is able to keep the monthly common charges low. For the three-bedroom, for example, the monthly common charge is $247. And because the buildings are three stories high, the units have low real estate taxes; the three-bedroom has an estimated tax bill of just $420 a month.
由于这座楼没什么配套设施，也不用支付门卫薪水，更无需电梯维护，德鲁克就可以把每月的公共开支维持在较低的水平。比如对于一套3卧室公寓而言，每月的物业管理费是247美元（约合人民币1500元）。又因这几栋楼的高度都是三层，所以房产税也很低；一套3卧室公寓每个月须缴的税额大约只有420美元（约合人民币2550元）。
The math is very different at the seven-story Hello Washington, a new condominium at 618 Washington Avenue in Prospect Heights, where the units, all two-bedrooms, are priced at an average of $872 a square foot, according to listings on Streeteasy. The monthly tax bill for a $935,000 two-bedroom there is $596 and the monthly common charge is $538.
但对于楼高七层的Hello Washington大楼，这栋位于展望高地华盛顿大道(Washington Avenue)618号的新建共管公寓楼而言，计算方法则大不一样。其中每套公寓都是2间卧室，根据Streeteasy的挂牌价计算，均价在每平方英尺872美元（约合每平方米人民币5.69万元）。这里一套售价93.5万美元（约合人民币567.89万元）的两卧室公寓所要缴纳的房产税是每月596美元（约合人民币3559元），而且每个月的物业费开支还有538美元（约合人民币3268元）。
The city calculates its real estate taxes for new residential condominiums of up to three stories by assessing them at 6 percent of their market value, based on sales prices. For new condominium buildings with more than three stories, the city assessment is 45 percent of the apartment’s rental market value, which typically results in a much higher tax bill, said Paul J. Korngold, a partner at the law firm Tuchman, Korngold, Weiss, Liebman & Gelles.
纽约市在计算新建住宅式共管公寓楼的房产税时，对于高度不超过三层的，基于其销售价格，按市值的6%征收；而对于超过三层的共管公寓大楼，则按照公寓租赁市值的45%征收，这必然会导致更高的税费，Tuchman, Korngold, Weiss, Liebman & Gelles律师事务所的合伙人保罗·J·康格德(Paul J. Korngold)说道。
“This is a luxury building and the apartments aren’t cheap,” Mr. Drukker said. “So if you also had to pay $15,000 a year in additional costs, it would be much harder for me to sell the apartments.”
“这是一栋豪华的公寓楼，所以这些公寓卖得并不便宜，”德鲁克说，“如果还要让你每年支付1.5万美元（约合人民币9.11万元）的额外成本，那我就很难把这些公寓卖出去了。”
The strategy makes perfect sense, said Stephen G. Kliegerman, the president of Halstead Property Development Marketing. “There is an inverse relationship between an apartment’s carrying costs and its price,” Mr. Kliegerman said. “The lower the monthly basis, the more the buyer can pay upfront.”
这一策略非常合理，地产公司Halstead Property的市场开发部总裁史蒂芬·G·克里格曼(Stephen G. Kliegerman) 说，“一套公寓的持有成本与它的价格成反比关系，”克里格曼说。“每个月的基本开支越低，买家可以预先支付的就越多。”
In addition to the lower costs associated with walk-ups, they are appealing for their historic character. This uniqueness can sometimes translate into a premium over similar apartments in full-service buildings nearby.
无电梯公寓除了较低的相关成本之外，还因其自身的历史特色而深具吸引力。这种独特性，相对于附近一些服务齐全的同类公寓而言，有时就可以转变为价格优势。
For example, 48 Bedford Street, a 10-unit boutique walk-up building in the West Village, recently renovated, has walnut floors, oversize windows and Kohler bathroom fixtures. Brett and Betsy Leonhardt pay $4,900 a month for a one-bedroom apartment on the fourth floor.
比如在西村(West Village)的贝德福德街(Bedford Street)，一栋有10个单元的精品无电梯公寓楼近期刚刚翻修完工，内有胡桃木的地板、超大规格的窗户以及科勒牌(Kohler)的卫浴用具。莱昂纳特(Leonhardt)夫妇布雷特(Brett)和贝齐(Betsy)每个月要为4楼的一套单卧室公寓支付4900美元（约合人民币2.98万元）。
In the same neighborhood earlier this year, the rent for a fourth-floor one-bedroom at the West Coast, a large doorman building at 95 Horatio Street, was $4,475 a month.
在同一个住宅区，今年早些时候，在西海岸(West Coast)荷瑞修街(Horatio Street)95号的一栋带门卫的大型公寓楼里，一套4楼的单卧室公寓每月的租金是4475美元（约合人民币2.72万元）。
“You can rent a one-bedroom at 95 Horatio Street all day,” said Mr. Sachs of Bold New York, who has handled units at the building. “One-bedrooms at 48 Bedford aren’t as big as at 95 Horatio, but your friends will walk in and say, ‘Wow, what a cool place.’ That is definitely worth something.”
“你可以随时在荷瑞修街95号租下一套单卧室公寓，”代理该楼公寓的Bold New York公司的萨克斯说道，“贝德福德街48号的单卧室公寓虽然没有荷瑞修街95号的那么大，但是，你的朋友们走进来时会说，‘哇，多酷的地方啊。’那绝对是物有所值的。”
Designing 48 Bedford Street so that it captured that character “was a balancing act,” said Mr. Leonhardt, who in addition to being a tenant is the director of design and development for Benchmark Real Estate Group, which developed the rental building, although it sold the property earlier this year. “We looked at old photos, researched what the building looked like. You want to capture the charm and preserve the historic character while having people know that they are walking into a renovated building.”
给贝德福德街48号设计出那种特色，“是一种平衡的做法，”莱昂纳特说，他不但是一名租客，还是基准地产集团(Benchmark Real Estate Group)设计与开发部的主管。该集团开发了这栋用于出租的公寓大楼，不过年初时已将该物业出售。“我们看了很多老照片，研究这栋楼该建成什么样子。你不但想获得那种魅力，并保留其历史特色；同时也要让人们知道，他们走进的是一栋翻新的大楼。”
For example, take the staircase at 48 Bedford: “We utilized the original metal structure of the stairs and reclad the treads in a light-gray-stained solid oak,” Mr. Leonhardt said. “Seeing the metal preserves the authenticity of the original staircase, but providing new treads gave the staircase a feel of refurbishment.”
比如贝德福德街48号的楼梯，“我们利用了这段楼梯原有的金属结构，但用刷成浅灰色的结实橡木重新包过了楼梯的台阶，”莱昂纳特说，“让金属框架保留了原有楼梯的真实性，但提供了新的台阶，给楼梯带来焕然一新的感觉。”
Not only are stairs more than usually important in a walk-up, but, he said, “you hear renters say that they are looking for something with character — that character is an amenity. The staircase is a great place to find that, because it is the place where interactions with neighbors happen.”
在无电梯公寓楼中，楼梯不仅有超乎寻常的重要作用，而且，他说，“你会听见租客们说，他们想找到某种有特色的东西——那特色，就是舒适愉悦的体验。楼梯就是一个很能体现这一特色的场所，因为这里是邻里之间发生互动的地方。”
Benchmark also created ledges at the sills of hall windows so that a weary stair-climber can set down a bag or keys. “When your apartment may just be 500 feet,” Mr. Leonhardt said, “these areas can act as an extension of your home.”
基准集团还在走廊的窗台处做了壁架，以便筋疲力尽的爬楼者可以放包或钥匙。“当你的公寓就在500英尺（约152.4米）开外时，”莱昂纳特说，“这些地方可以作为家的延伸。”
Linda Visser, who takes the stairs to her one-bedroom in a six-story building on Broome Street in NoLIta, loves the fact that there’s no lobby standing between her and the world. “I want to walk out and be a part of the community,” said Ms. Visser, who moved here from Australia and is interviewing for jobs. “I have neighbors to chat with; it is quaint. It feels like I am more a part of things, a part of New York.”
琳达·维瑟(Linda Visser)的单卧室公寓位于诺利塔区(NoLIta)布隆街(Broome Street)一栋六层楼大厦中。作为一个每天走楼梯回到自己公寓的人，她最喜欢的是自己和世界之间没有电梯大厅的阻隔。“我想走出去，成为这个社区的一部分，” 维瑟说道。她从澳大利亚搬到这里，正在面试工作。“我有邻居可以聊天；这里古色古香，感觉就像我已经成了某些东西的一部分，成了纽约的一部分。”
In buying their first home, Michael Kuszynski and his wife, Rui Lin, who both work in finance, searched in neighborhoods as varied as Long Island City, Queens; Park Slope, Brooklyn; and the Upper West Side of Manhattan. But despite the diversity of locations, the couple never wavered from their intention to buy a walk-up apartment.
在购买第一套房的过程中，双双就职于金融业的迈克尔·库津斯基(Michael Kuszynski)和妻子林睿（Rui Lin，音译）找遍了各个不同的街区，比如皇后区的长岛市(Long sland City，Queens)、公园坡(Park Slope)、布鲁克林区(Brooklyn)，以及曼哈顿的上西区(Upper West Side)。尽管去了很多不同的地方，但这对夫妇并没有改变他们想买一套无电梯公寓的初衷。
“I much prefer old buildings,” said Mr. Kuszynski, 31. “I really don’t like sterile high-rises.”
“我更愿意住在老楼房里，”31岁的库津斯基说，“我真的不喜欢枯燥乏味的高层建筑。”
They eventually settled on the East Village, where they paid $650,000 for a one-bedroom at a five-story walk-up on East 11th Street. “We saw that it was recently renovated and roomy,” Mr. Kuszynski said, “and we had all our paperwork in hand and made an offer right away.”
他们最终在东村(East Villge)安顿了下来，花65万美元（约合人民币394.79万元）在东11街买下一套位于5楼的单卧室无电梯公寓。“我们看到这套公寓最近翻修过，又很宽敞，”库津斯基说，“当时我们手里带了所有的文件资料，于是立刻报了价。”
For Diane Ash, the pull of a walk-up building was the simplicity it provided. Recently divorced, Ms. Ash just moved into a railroad-style third-floor walk-up on First Avenue and 79th Street. She was relocating from a 5,000-square-foot house in Cincinnati where she had raised her three children.
而对黛安·阿什(Diane Ash)来说，一栋无电梯大楼的吸引力在于它所具备的质朴之美。阿什最近离了婚，刚刚搬进第一大道和79街之间的一套铁路风格(railroad-style)的3楼无电梯公寓。她原来住在辛辛那提(Cincinnati)一栋5000平方英尺（约464.5平方米）的房子里，并在那里养大了3个孩子。
“My kids think I’ve lost my mind,” said Ms. Ash, 51, who is working as a sales associate at the clothing store J. McLaughlin on Madison Avenue. “Financially, I could have done the doorman and the bigger place, but I really want a simple lifestyle. I’m also really into exercise, and I like the fact that I will be walking up the steps.”
“孩子们都觉得我太不理智了，”51岁的阿什说道，她在麦德逊大道(Madison Avenue)的J. McLaughlin服装店从事销售助理的工作。“从财务能力上考虑，我是可以买有门卫的大楼和更宽敞一些的地方的，但我实在想过一种简单的生活。我还热衷于锻炼身体，所以很喜欢要爬楼梯这件事。”
When Jesse Hernreich moved from Colorado to do graduate work at the New School, she, too, decided to search for a walk-up. “I don’t particularly enjoy having a doorman,” said Ms. Hernreich, 28, who recently rented a one-bedroom on St. Marks Place in the East Village. “It is nice to have the same quality apartment as a doorman building, but not have to feel like someone is keeping tabs on you.”
当杰西·赫恩赖奇(Jesse Hernreich)从科罗拉多(Colorado)搬来，在新学院大学(New School)攻读研究生的时候，她也决定找一户无电梯的公寓。“我并不怎么喜欢有门卫的感觉，” 28岁的赫恩赖奇说，她最近租下了东村(East Village)圣马克街(St. Marks Place)的一套单卧室公寓。“这样很好，既能住上与门卫楼同一品质的公寓，又不会感觉总有人在盯着你。”
Still, there are drawbacks. “I’m getting used to not having a laundry in the building,” Ms. Hernreich said. “But the mail, and getting deliveries like dry cleaning, can be annoying.”
当然，也有一些不足之处。“我逐渐习惯了这栋楼里没有洗衣房，”赫恩赖奇说，“但是收取邮件啊，还有干洗衣物之类的送货上门服务啊，都可能会很烦人。”
Although some New Yorkers do miss the convenience of a laundry room or the security of a doorman, a growing number are embracing what walk-ups can offer. “I keep hearing, ‘I want a boutique building, I want to see listings that don’t have a doorman,’ ” Mr. Sachs said. “There are a lot of beautiful properties that offer a level of privacy and intimacy you just don’t get in a big building.”
尽管一些纽约人的确很怀念一间洗衣房所带来的便利，或者一名门卫所带来的安全感，还是有越来越多的人乐于接受无电梯公寓带给他们的东西。“我一直听人说，‘我想住在一栋古老的公寓楼里，我想看看没有门卫的房子，’”萨克斯说，“有很多漂亮的物业可以给你一种私密的感觉，这是你在高楼大厦中得不到的享受。”