With no chance of Congressional support, President Obama is staking part of his legacy on a big risk: that he can substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions by stretching the intent of a law decades old and not written with climate change in mind.
在不可能赢得国会支持的情况下，奥巴马总统将自己的部分政治遗产押注于一个大风险：他能够大量削减温室气体排放，方法是延伸解读数十年前生效、起草时并未考虑气候变化的一部法律的意图。
His plan, unveiled Tuesday at Georgetown University in Washington, will set off legal and political battles that will last years.
这项计划于本周二在华盛顿的乔治城大学(Georgetown University)揭晓，预计将引发持续多年的法律和政治角力。
But experts say that if all goes well for the president, the plan could potentially meet his stated goal of an overall emissions reduction of 17 percent by 2020, compared with the level in 2005.
不过，专家们表示，如果一切如总统所愿，该计划有可能达到他所说的目标，即在2020年将排放总量降至比2005年低17%的水平。
“If the question is, ‘Will this solve our emissions problem?’ the answer is no,” said Michael A. Levi, an energy analyst at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. “If the question is, ‘Could this move us along the path we want to be on?’ the answer is yes, it could.”
在位于纽约的美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)担任能源分析师的迈克尔·A·利瓦伊(Michael A. Levi)说，“如果问的是，‘这能不能解决我们的排放问题？’那么答案是否定的。如果问的是，‘这能不能让我们在希望走的道路上迈进？’那么答案是肯定的，可以。”
In his speech, Mr. Obama said he would use executive powers to limit the carbon dioxide that power plants could emit. He also called for government spending to promote the development of energy alternatives, and committed to helping cities and states protect themselves from rising seas and other effects of climate change.
奥巴马在演讲中表示，将动用总统的行政权力来限制电厂排放二氧化碳。他还呼吁编列政府支出以促进替代能源的发展，并承诺帮助市政及各州自我保护，免受海平面上升等气候变化的影响。
But formally, the main thing he did on Tuesday was order the Environmental Protection Agency to devise an emissions control plan, with the first draft due in a year. Experts say he will be lucky to get a final plan in place by the time he leaves office in early 2017.
但在正式层面上，奥巴马周二所做的主要事情是下令让美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)制定一份控制排放的方案，一年后拿出初稿。一些专家认为，如果最终方案能在他2017年初离任时敲定，他的运气就算不错了。
Mr. Obama is trying to ensure continuation of a trend already under way: emissions in the United States have been falling for several years. But at the global scale, they are rising fast, and as the president acknowledged, it will take much stronger international action to turn that around and head off the worst effects of climate change.
奥巴马正试图确保目前的趋势得以延续：过去几年间，美国的排放量持续减少。不过在全球层面上，排放量在快速攀升，正如奥巴马所承认的，要想扭转这一趋势，避免气候变化最糟糕的后果，将需要力度大得多的国际行动。
“For the world at large, the United States is just one piece of the puzzle,” Mr. Levi said.
利瓦伊说，“对全世界而言，美国只不过是全局中的一环。”
Already, glaciers are melting, heat waves and heavy rains are increasing, the food system is under stress and the sea is rising. The best that can be hoped for, scientists say, is to limit the damage, or slow it enough to provide society more time to adjust.
冰川融化，热浪和暴雨增多，粮食体系承压，海平面上升，这些都已然发生。科学家们表示，我们能期待的最佳结局是限制损害，或尽量减缓气候变化，让社会有更多时间来适应。
The president recognized that in his plan, calling for more steps to help the country prepare, from strengthening sea walls to hardening the electrical grid.
奥巴马总统在其计划中认同这一点，呼吁采取更多步骤帮助美国做好准备——从加固海堤到巩固电网。
The heart of Mr. Obama’s plan, however, is lowering the country’s emissions using administrative remedies, an effort to sidestep a recalcitrant Congress. The success of that goal will depend on how far the administration is able to stretch the boundaries of the Clean Air Act, signed into law by President Richard M. Nixon in 1970.
不过，奥巴马计划的核心是利用行政手段降低美国的排放，绕过难对付的国会。能否成功实现这个目标，将取决于奥巴马政府能在多大程度上延伸《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)的权限。该法由理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统于1970年签署生效。
The Supreme Court has already ruled that it can be used to regulate greenhouse gases, which include carbon dioxide emissions, but figuring out how to do that within the technical requirements of the law will be a major challenge.
美国最高法院之前已做出裁定，该法可被用来监管温室气体，包括二氧化碳的排放，然而理清如何在该法的技术要求框架内做到这一点，将是一大挑战。
The administration’s thinking appears to have been influenced by a proposal from an environmental group, the Natural Resources Defense Council.
奥巴马政府的思路似乎受到环保组织“自然资源保护委员会”(Natural Resources Defense Council)一项提议的影响。
The group urged a creative approach, calling on the federal government to set a target level of greenhouse gases for each state, taking account of historical patterns. A state generating a lot of power from coal, then exporting it to other states, would not be unduly penalized, for instance.
该组织敦促采取一种创造性的方式，呼吁联邦政府为各州设立温室气体的目标水平，并考虑历史情况。比方说，如果某个州用煤炭大量发电，并向其他州输电，该州将不会受到过度惩罚。
As the environmental group envisions it, states would meet their goals by tweaking the overall electrical system, not just by cracking down on individual power plants. States might urge companies to produce more renewable power, for instance, but they could also retrofit homes and businesses to reduce energy waste, or encourage the use of clean-burning natural gas instead of coal.
按照该环保组织的构想，各州将通过调整总体电力系统来达标，而不仅仅是打击个别的电厂。比方说，各州可敦促企业生产更多可再生电力，也可以改造住宅和企业以减少能源浪费，或者鼓励采用清洁燃烧的天然气来代替煤炭。
States would presumably be allowed to use market signals, like a price on greenhouse emissions, to achieve their goals, as California and nine Northeastern states are already doing.
各州想必将获准利用市场信号（比如给温室气体排放定价）来实现目标，就像加利福尼亚和东北部九个州已经在做的那样。
It is unclear how much all this might cost at the retail level. The Natural Resources Defense Council argues that even if prices go up, electric bills for many consumers could actually decline as their homes were retrofitted to use less energy.
尚不明朗的是，这一切将在零售层面带来多少成本。自然资源保护委员会辩称，即便价格上升，许多消费者的电费账单实际上可能下降，因为他们的住宅经过了节能改造。
The fossil-fuel industry and its allies in Congress are certain to argue that the president’s plan will be ruinously expensive and require the shutdown of numerous coal-burning power plants. Republican leaders immediately condemned the plan as a job-killer and framed it as an attack on coal.
化石燃料业及其在国会的盟友肯定会辩称，奥巴马计划的代价将高得离谱，会迫使无数燃煤电厂停运。共和党领导层很快谴责该计划扼杀工作岗位，并将其框定为针对煤炭的攻击。
The political attraction of a state-led approach is that it would move a lot of the nitty-gritty decision making out of Washington. But, for that very reason, it would entail legal risk. The Clean Air Act, written in the heyday of environmentalism, basically envisions commandments from Washington ordering utilities to clean up the air, not flexible approaches.
让各州主导的方式的政治吸引力在于，这将把许多决策细节转移到华盛顿之外。不过，基于同样的原因，这将带有法律风险。《清洁空气法》起草于环境主义的高峰期，其基本构想是由华盛顿下达政令，要求电力企业净化空气，而不是采用灵活的方式。
While carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere reached a historic level of 400 parts per million last month, emissions from the United States have been falling, partly because of the weak economy but also because of the newfound abundance of natural gas from hydraulic fracturing. Gas has displaced a lot of coal in power generation; such switching cuts greenhouse emissions nearly in half for a given amount of electricity produced.
尽管大气中的二氧化碳浓度上个月达到400ppm的历史水平，但美国的排放量在持续下降，这部分源于经济不振，但也是由于近年美国通过水力压裂法开采大量天然气。在发电行业，天然气已经取代了很多煤炭；这一转变将单位发电量的温室气体排放量削减了近一半。
Other factors, like tougher building codes, are contributing to the decline. And transport emissions are falling in part because of one of Mr. Obama’s policies: tough fuel-efficiency measures for new cars.
更严格的建筑规范等其他一些因素也对排放量下降起到了作用。交通排放也在下降，部分归功于奥巴马的一项政策：对新车辆实施严格的燃油效率指标。
But modest reductions already achieved in the United States and other Western countries are being swamped by rising emissions from the East. So the real question is whether technologies can be developed, and then deployed worldwide, that allow for continued economic growth and rising energy use with minimal greenhouse emissions.
但是，美国和其它西方国家已经实现的少量减排，正被东方日益攀升的排放抵消。因此，真正的问题在于，能否开发并在世界范围应用新技术，从而既能使经济持续增长，又能在用能增加的情况下带来最少的温室气体排放？
In his speech, Mr. Obama sought to reclaim global leadership on climate change for the United States. His plan includes ideas and money for making global progress.
在演讲中，奥巴马试图让美国重获气候变化方面的全球领导地位。他的计划包含以取得全球进展为目标的想法及资金。
Daniel P. Schrag, head of Harvard’s Center for the Environment, said the president’s plan would succeed only if it created market conditions unleashing the creative power of American capitalism, calling forth greater innovation in the energy industry.
哈佛大学环境中心(Harvard University Center for the Environment)主任丹尼尔·P·施拉格(Daniel P. Schrag)认为，总统的计划要想成功，就必须营造适当的市场条件，释放美国式资本主义的创造力，推动能源业加大创新力度。
Mr. Obama nodded to that point in his speech, noting that “countries like China and Germany are going all in” on the clean energy race. “I believe Americans build things better than anybody else,” he said. “I want America to win that race, but we can’t win it if we’re not in it.”
奥巴马在演讲中也肯定了这一点，他指出，“中国和德国等国正全力投入”清洁能源竞赛。“我相信美国人的创造能力比谁都强，”他说。“我希望美国能赢得这场竞赛，但是，如果我们不参与就赢不了。”