A Chinese citizen has been arrested in connection with the Jan. 1 arson attack at the Chinese Consulate in San Francisco, the F.B.I. said. According to a statement released by the F.B.I. in San Francisco, Yan Feng, 39, of Daly City, Calif., turned himself in to police officers on Jan. 3 and was arrested “without incident.” Mr. Feng made his first court appearance on Monday to face two federal charges, arson and damaging the property of a foreign government.
美国联邦调查局(FBI)称，与在1月1日纵火袭击中国驻旧金山总领馆有关的一名中国人已被逮捕。据旧金山的FBI办公室发布的一份声明称，现年39岁的加州戴利城居民冯严丰（FBI发布的名字是Yan Feng）1月3日向警察局自首，被捕时“没有抗拒”。冯严丰周一首次出庭，他面临两项联邦指控：纵火罪以及损坏外国政府财产罪。
Although no motive has been given for the attack, David J. Johnson, the F.B.I. special agent in charge, said it did not appear to be related to terrorism, politics or civil rights, according to a report by The Associated Press.
据美联社(The Associated Press)报道称，虽然没有给出此次袭击的动机，但负责此案的FBI特工戴维·J·约翰逊(David J. Johnson)说，袭击似乎与恐怖主义、政治或民权无关。
“Right now, we’re looking at this as purely a criminal matter,’’ Mr. Johnson said.
约翰逊说，“现在，我们把这个案子做为单纯的刑事犯罪案来调查。”
According to an F.B.I. affidavit filed in court, Mr. Feng, who has permanent resident status in the United States, told federal agents that he targeted the consulate because “all the voices he had been hearing were in Chinese, and the Chinese Consulate had to have been involved.”
据FBI向法庭提供的一份证词称，冯严丰在美国有永久性居民身分，他告诉联邦特工，他将该领馆作为袭击目标是因为“他脑子里听到的所有声音都是中文的，因此中国领馆肯定与之有关。”
The affidavit also provided further details to supplement the consulate’s previous description of the attack. According to the affidavit, Mr. Feng said that he drove to the consulate in his minivan, then drove to the gas station and filled up several gas containers, drove back to the consulate, waited in his minivan for a few minutes, walked around the block and then back to the minivan, where he waited several more minutes, smoked a cigarette and then took the gas containers to the entrance and poured some of the gas onto the building’s front entrance and tried to set it on fire.
这份证词还提供了更详细的信息，为总领馆此前对袭击的描述做了补充。据证词称，冯严丰说他驾驶自己的小型面包车前往领馆，然后开到加油站将几个装汽油的容器灌满，又开回到领馆，在车内等了几分钟后，下车在附近走了一圈，之后回到车内又等了几分钟，抽了支烟，然后拎着装汽油的容器走到领馆入口处，将一些汽油泼到正门上，试图将其点火焚烧。
Though the attack did not result in any injuries, it left the lobby damaged and the three-story entrance to the building severely blackened. Mr. Feng was arrested by the Daly City police two days later after they received a call from Mr. Feng during which he is said to have told them, with the help of a Mandarin interpreter, that he had “made the fire.”
虽然这次袭击没有造成人员受伤，但导致领馆门厅受损，三层高的建筑物入口外表被严重熏黑。戴利城警方在两天后逮捕了冯严丰，是在接到他的自首电话后，据称冯严丰在电话中在一位汉语口译者的帮助下说是他“放的火”。
In a brief statement, the consulate acknowledged the arrest, calling for the suspect to be “brought to justice.” The statement went on to read: “We urge the U.S. side to learn lessons from this incident, take effective measures to ensure the safety, security and dignity of Chinese diplomatic and consulate missions and staff in the U.S. and prevent the recurrence of similar incidents.”
驻旧金山总领馆在一份简短声明中表示已得知逮捕的消息，并呼吁“依法严惩”嫌犯。这份声明称：“中方将继续密切关注案件审理后续进展，并要求美方认真吸取教训，切实采取有效措施维护中国外交、领事人员和机构的安全和尊严，确保类似事件不再发生。”
The F.B.I. said the blaze was unrelated to a previous incident at the San Francisco consulate, in 2008, when a group of people set fire to a metal security gate at the rear of the building.
FBI称，此纵火案与2008年旧金山总领馆发生的事件没有关联，当时一群人在领馆建筑物后面放火焚烧了一扇金属安全门。