SAN FRANCISCO — From her apartment at the foot of the celebrated zigzags of Lombard Street, Judith Calson has twice peered out her window as thieves smashed their way into cars and snatched whatever they could. She has seen foreign tourists cry after cash and passports were stolen. She shudders when she recounts the story of the Thai tourist who was shot because he resisted thieves taking his camera.
旧金山——朱迪思·卡尔森(Judith Calson)的公寓位于著名的之字形隆巴德街(Lombard Street)脚下，她曾两次透过窗户瞥见小偷砸碎车玻璃，拿走车里的所有东西。她见过外国游客在现金和护照被盗后大哭。在说起一位泰国游客因小偷拿走相机的时候反抗而遭到枪击的事情时，她还会发抖。
And that is her tally from the last year alone.
单是去年一年，她就看到这么多事。
“I never thought of this area as a high-crime neighborhood,” Ms. Calson, a retired photographer, said of this leafy part of the city, where tourists flock to view the steeply sloped, crooked street adorned with flower beds.
“以前我从不认为这个地区是犯罪高发区，”卡尔森说。她是一名退休摄影师。她指的是旧金山的这片树木繁茂的区域。游客们蜂拥而至观看装饰着花坛的弯曲陡峭的街道。
San Francisco, America’s boom town, is flooded with the cash of well-paid technology workers and record numbers of tourists. At the same time, the city has seen a sharp jump in property crime, up more than 60 percent since 2010, though the actual increase may be higher because many of the crimes go unreported.
旧金山是一座繁荣的美国城市，高收入的技术人员和创纪录的游客为它带来大量金钱。与此同时，这里的财产犯罪激增，比2010年增加了逾60%，不过实际增长率可能更高，因为很多犯罪情况并没有报案。
Recent data from the F.B.I. show that San Francisco has the highest per-capita property crime rate of the nation’s top 50 cities. About half the cases here are thefts from vehicles, smash-and-grabs that scatter glittering broken glass onto the sidewalks.
联邦调查局(FBI)的最新数据表明，旧金山的人均财产犯罪率居美国前50个城市的榜首。这里约半数的罪案是砸车窗盗窃车内财产，闪亮的玻璃碎片散落在人行道上。
The city, known for a political tradition of empathy for the downtrodden, is now divided over whether to respond with more muscular law enforcement or stick to its forgiving attitudes.
这座城市以同情受压迫者的政治传统而闻名，而今因为究竟应该加强执法还是坚持宽容态度而产生分歧。
The Chamber of Commerce and the tourist board are calling for harsher measures to improve what is euphemistically called the “condition of the streets,” a term that encompasses the intractable homeless problem, public intravenous drug use, the large population of mentally ill people on the streets and aggressive panhandling. The chamber recently released the results of an opinion poll that showed that homelessness and “street behavior” were the primary concerns of residents here.
旧金山的商会(The Chamber of Commerce)和旅游委员会呼吁采取更严厉的措施，改善“街头情况”——这是一个比较委婉的说法，它包括棘手的流浪者问题、公开静脉注射毒品、街头的大量精神病患者，以及强行乞讨。前不久，商会公布了一项民意调查的结果，表明流浪者和“街头行为”是当地居民最关注的问题。
“We are the wealthiest big city in the wealthiest state in the wealthiest country in the world, and we have this situation on our streets,” said Joe D’Alessandro, the chief executive of San Francisco Travel, a tourism organization.
“我们是世界上最富有的国家里最富有的州里最富有的大城市，但我们的街头存在这种情况，”旅游组织旧金山旅游(San Francisco Travel)的执行主管乔·达历山德罗(Joe D’Alessandro)说。
“People believe that everyone has the right to be on the streets. However, I think there is a tolerance limit to bad behavior.”
“人们认为，谁都有权上街。但我认为，对恶劣行为应该有容忍限度。”
Visitors come to bask in the Mediterranean climate, stroll through the charming streets and marvel at the sweeping views of the bay and the Pacific. But alongside those views are tent encampments on sidewalks and rag-covered homeless people in front of some of the most expensive real estate in America.
游客们来这里享受温暖舒适的地中海式气候，在迷人的街道上漫步，赞叹海湾和太平洋的壮阔景色。但是，与这些美景相伴的是人行道上的露宿帐篷和穿着破衣烂衫的流浪者——他们身后是美国最昂贵的一些房产。
The divided opinions on how to handle the problems are evident among members of the Board of Supervisors.
监督委员会(Board of Supervisors)的成员对如何应对这些问题也明显存在分歧。
Scott Wiener, a supervisor and an advocate for more aggressive law enforcement, said his constituents were urging him to act. “I can’t tell you the number of times where I have received emails from moms saying, ‘My kids just asked me why that man has a syringe sticking out of his arm,’ ” he said.
斯科特·威纳(Scott Wiener)是一名监督员，他主张加强执法，称选民们敦促他采取行动。“我已经记不清有多少次收到妈妈们的来信，说‘我的孩子们问我为什么那个人胳膊上扎着注射器，’”他说。 
“San Francisco at times is a consequence-free zone,” Mr. Wiener said. “I’m not advocating extreme law and order, but there has to be consequences. Sometimes people might need to spend six months in jail to think about what they did.”
“旧金山有时是个无需承担后果的地方，”威纳说，“我不是主张采取极端的法律与秩序，但是人们必须承担一定的责任。有时人们可能需要在监狱里呆上6个月，想想自己都干了些什么。”
In a bitterly contested 6-to-5 vote last year, Mr. Wiener led the passage of a measure adding several hundred officers to the city’s police force, the first increase since the 1980s, when the population was over 10 percent smaller.
去年，在威纳的领导下，经过激烈争辩，最终以6:5的投票结果通过了一项提案，为本市增添了几百名警察。这是自20世纪80年代以来首次增加警察，而当时的人口比现在少逾10%。
On the other side is David Campos, a supervisor who opposes the increase in police officers and describes Mr. Wiener’s views as “a very knee-jerk kind of punitive approach that is ineffective and inconsistent with the values of San Francisco.”
监督员大卫·坎波斯(David Campos)站在相反的立场。他反对增加警察，称威纳的观点是“非常本能的惩罚措施，它不起作用，而且与旧金山的价值观不一致”。
Mr. Campos and many others evoke the charitable spirit of the city’s namesake, St. Francis.
坎波斯和其他很多人想到的是与这座城市同名的圣·弗朗西斯(St. Francis)的仁慈精神。
“We are not going to criminalize people for being poor,” he said. “That criminalization is only going to make it harder for them to get out of poverty.”
“我们不会因为人们贫穷而惩治他们，”他说，“惩治只会让他们更难摆脱贫困。”
San Francisco’s liberal ethos, Mr. Campos said, was changing as the city focused more on business and the needs of the tech industry.
坎波斯说，随着旧金山更关注商业和技术行业的需求，这座城市的自由主义精神特质在不断改变。
“I think there has been a shift in the people who have come to San Francisco,” Mr. Campos said of the city’s new arrivals, a group that is well educated and well heeled. He deplores what he describes as a growing “sink-or-swim” free-market ideology that stands in contrast to the city’s traditions.
“我觉得来旧金山的人发生了变化，”坎波斯表示。他说，这座城市的新来者是一群受过良好教育的有钱人。他强烈反对不断滋长的“自生自灭”的自由市场观念形态，说那与这座城市的传统相对立。
“I don’t know which San Francisco will prevail,” he said.
“我不知道旧金山会走上哪条路，”他说。
At TLC Glass, a repair shop on the edge of San Francisco’s business district, the more prosaic consequences of the rise in car break-ins are on display. Customers regularly file in to repair car windows that have been smashed by thieves.
TLC玻璃店(TLC Glass)是旧金山商务区边上的一家修理店，砸车盗窃案增多的现实后果在这里得以体现。顾客们经常来这里修补被小偷砸碎的车窗玻璃。
“Every day we are full,” the shop’s owner, Louie Chen, said. One customer came in four times in six weeks.
“我们这里每天顾客都是满满的，”店主路易·陈(Louie Chen)说。有一位顾客在6周内来了4次。
A customer who came to have a broken window fixed, Dan Edmonds-Waters, showed San Franciscan forgiveness. He said he felt sorry for whomever broke a window of his limited-edition BMW twice, stealing his gym bag both times.
来修车窗的顾客丹·埃德蒙斯-沃特斯(Dan Edmonds-Waters)反映出旧金山的宽容。他说，他为两次砸碎他限量版宝马车的小偷感到难过。两次偷的都是健身包。
“I have a lot of sympathy for folks who are in need in the city,” Mr. Edmonds-Waters said. “This has become an extremely expensive city to live in. The divide between those who have and those who don’t is ridiculously ginormous.”
“我非常同情这座城市里的穷人，”埃德蒙斯-沃特斯说，“这里的消费水平很高。富人和穷人之间的差距大得不可思议。”
The people who commit the property crimes come from a variety of backgrounds, said Albie Esparza, a spokesman for the San Francisco Police Department. “Some are homeless, some are in gangs, some are freelancers up to no good,” he said.
旧金山警察局的发言人阿尔比·埃斯帕扎(Albie Esparza)说，财产犯罪的凶手来自不同的背景。“有些是流浪者，有时是黑帮，还有一些就是专爱搞破坏的人。”
People are rarely caught. “The problem with auto break-ins is that they happen so quickly, just a few seconds,” Mr. Esparza said. “Before anyone can do anything about it, they are long gone.”
很少有人被抓到。“砸车盗窃的问题是作案很快，就几秒钟，”埃斯帕扎说，“你还没行动呢，他们早跑了。”
Violent crime has increased 18 percent since 2010, but the city has a low murder rate relative to other large American cities.
从2010年起，暴力犯罪增涨了18%，但是与美国的其他大城市相比，这里的谋杀率较低。
Police are barred by city ordinance from installing surveillance cameras that are commonly found in other cities, a restriction that even Mr. Wiener said he did not want changed.
按照旧金山的城市法规，警察不能安装监控摄像头——安装摄像头在其他城市很常见。不过，甚至连威纳也不想改变这一限制规定。
Ms. Calson, the retired photographer, said she offered to let the police mount a surveillance camera outside her Lombard Street apartment. The car break-ins happen so quickly that she has not been able photograph the perpetrators.
退休的女摄影师卡尔森说，她提出让警察在她隆巴德街公寓外安一个监控摄像头。砸车盗窃的作案速度太快了，她都来不及把作案者拍下来。
On Wednesday, another car was broken into below her window. A woman who was dropping off her daughter at a day care center had parked for 10 minutes and returned to find her window smashed and her purse gone.
周三，她家窗下又有一辆车的窗户被砸了。一个女人把女儿送到日托所，就停了10分钟，回来就发现车窗被砸，包包不见了。
“It’s just insane,” Ms. Calson said. “On and on and on it goes.”
“太疯狂了，”卡尔森说，“不断有车被砸。”