SAN FRANCISCO — If there was a tipping point, a moment that crystallized the anger building here toward the so-called technorati for driving up housing prices and threatening the city’s bohemian identity, it came in response to a diatribe posted online in August by a young Internet entrepreneur.
旧金山——如果说存在一个引爆点，让旧金山居民对“技术精英”哄抬房价并威胁到这座城市波西米亚身份认同感的愤怒在某个时刻迸发出来的话，那么这事件就是，一名年轻的互联网创业者今年8月在网上发表的辱骂帖所引发的反响。
The author, a start-up founder named Peter Shih, listed 10 things he hated about San Francisco. Homeless people, for example. And the “constantly PMSing” weather. And “girls who are obviously 4s and behave like they’re 9s.”
帖子的作者名叫彼得·施(Peter Shih)，是一家初创公司的创始人。他在文中列出了自己讨厌旧金山的10个方面，比如无家可归者、“一直在经前综合症发作”的天气，以及“明明长相只能打4分、举止做派却好像是9分美女的姑娘们”。
The backlash was immediate. Fliers appeared on telephone poles calling Mr. Shih a “woman hatin’ nerd toucher.” CheapAir offered him a free ticket back to New York. Readers responded that what they hated about San Francisco were “entitled” technology workers like him.
这个帖子立即招来了猛烈还击。电线杆上出现了小传单，称彼得·施是个“有厌女症的狂妄书呆子”。CheapAir表示要免费送他一张回纽约的单程机票。还有一些看帖的人回复说，他们讨厌旧金山的理由就是有他这样“自命不凡”的科技从业者。
Mr. Shih, who said he received death threats after the post, deleted it and apologized.
彼得·施称，发了这个帖子之后，有人威胁要杀掉他。他删除了帖子，并道了歉。
But a nerve had been struck. As the center of the technology industry has moved north from Silicon Valley to San Francisco and the largess from tech companies has flowed into the city — Twitter’s stock offering unleashed an estimated 1,600 new millionaires — income disparities have widened sharply, housing prices have soared and orange construction cranes dot the skyline. The tech workers have, rightly or wrongly, received the blame.
不过，它已经挑动了人们的神经。随着科技产业的中心从硅谷北移到了旧金山，财富也大批涌入这座城市——Twitter股票上市一下子催生了1600个左右的新百万富翁——收入差距急剧扩大，房价飙升，橙黄色的建筑起重机点缀在城市各处。科技从业者遭到了指责，不管在不在理。
Resentment simmers, at the fleets of Google buses that ferry workers to the company’s headquarters in Mountain View and back; the code jockeys who crowd elite coffeehouses, heads buried in their laptops; and the sleek black Uber cars that whisk hipsters from bar to bar. Late last month, two tech millionaires opened the Battery, an invitation-only, $2,400-a-year club in an old factory in the financial district, cars lining up for valet parking.
对于谷歌(Google)接送员工到山景城总部的巴士车队，挤满高级咖啡馆、埋头在笔记本电脑上工作的程序员，载着赶时髦的家伙在酒吧之间窜来窜去的亮黑色Uber出租车，人们的怨气已经难以抑制。上个月底，两名科技业富翁在金融区的一座老工厂里开办了Battery俱乐部，只有收到邀请的人才能加入，年费为2400美元（约合人民币14600元）。门外的汽车排着长队，等待代客泊车服务。
For critics, such sights are symbols of a city in danger of losing its diversity — one that artists, families and middle-class workers can no longer afford. On the day of Twitter’s public offering this month, 150 demonstrators protested outside the company with signs reading “People not profit” and “We’re the public, what are you offering?”
在批评者看来，这样的景象象征着城市处于丧失多样性的危险之中——艺术家、一般家庭和中产阶级劳动者在这座城市里已经待不下去了。Twitter本月首次公开募股的那一天，150名示威者在公司外面抗议，手上举着的标语牌上写着“人们没有获益”，以及“我们就是公众，你们能给我们募来什么？”
More and more longtime residents are being forced out as landlords and speculators race to capitalize on the money stream.
随着房东和投机者竞相利用如潮而至的资金，越来越多的老居民被迫离开家园。
Mary Elizabeth Phillips, a retired accountant, is fighting eviction from the rent-controlled apartment where she has lived for almost half a century. If her new landlords have their way, she will have to move in April, shortly after her 98th birthday, because they want to sell the units.
玛丽·伊丽莎白·菲利普斯(Mary Elizabeth Phillips)是一名退休的会计师，在一栋租金管制公寓已经住了近半个世纪。现在，她正在采取行动，奋力避免被赶出去。如果她的新房东得逞，她就必须在明年4月，也就是她98岁生日后不久搬出去，因为他们想出售这些公寓。
Her neighborhood has given way around her. The car dealership across the street is now a luxury apartment complex, complete with rooftop herb garden, a butterfly habitat and a Whole Foods.
周围的邻居们已经屈服。街对面的汽车经销店如今成了一栋豪华公寓大楼，带有屋顶植物园、蝴蝶馆和全食超市(Whole Foods)。
“I can understand it from an investment standpoint,” she said of her landlords’ actions. “But I don’t think I’d ever be that coldblooded about this.”
“从投资的角度来说，我能理解这件事，”她在谈到房东们的行为时说。“但我不会对这种事这么铁石心肠。”
While the technology boom has bred hostility, it has also brought San Francisco undeniable benefits. Mayor Edwin M. Lee credits the technology sector with helping to pull the city out of the recession, creating jobs and nourishing a thriving economy that is the envy of cash-starved cities across the country.
科技繁荣虽然孕育了敌意，但也给旧金山带来了无可否认的好处。市长李孟贤(Edwin M. Lee)称，科技产业帮助该市走出了衰退，创造了就业机会，它所带来的经济繁荣，令全美各地资金匮乏的城市艳羡不已。
The industry is “not so much taking over but complementing the job creation we want in the city,” Mr. Lee said while giving a tour of middle Market Street to show off its “renaissance” from a seedy skid row to a tech district where Twitter, Square and other companies have made their home.
科技行业“与其说接管了这个城市，不如说帮助创造了我们乐于见到的就业机会，”李孟贤说。当时他正自豪地带着大家参观市中心的市场街，这里曾经是一个破旧的贫民窟，现在已经“复兴”成为为高科技园区，Twitter、Square等公司的总部就设在这里。
Yet city officials must grapple with the arithmetic of squeezing more people into the limited space afforded by San Francisco’s 49 square miles. And it is the housing shortage that underlies much of the sniping about tech workers.
然而，市政官员们必须要做一道算术题是：旧金山的面积只有49平方英里，怎样才让更多的人挤入这个有限空间。高科技员工遭受指责，很大一部分原因跟住房短缺有关。
San Francisco has the least affordable housing in the nation, with just 14 percent of homes accessible to middle-class buyers, said Jed Kolko, chief economist at the real estate website Trulia. The median rent is also the highest in the country, at $3,250 a month for a two-bedroom apartment.
房地产网站Trulia首席经济师杰德·科尔科(Jed Kolko)说，旧金山价格适中的房屋的比例是美国最低的，只有14％的住宅供应给中产阶级购房者。这里的租金中位数也是全美最高的，一套两居室公寓的月租达3250美元。
“Affordable housing projects are constructed, and the money set aside for that purpose is used, but the demand is just far greater than what can be supplied,” said Fred Brousseau of the city budget and legislative analyst’s office. Evictions under a provision of state law that allows landlords to evict rent-controlled tenants if they convert a building for sale have more than tripled in the past three years, just as they did during the first tech boom.
“我们正在修建价格适中的住房，预留给这个目的的资金已经投入了使用，但房子还是大大供不应求。”旧金山预算和立法分析师办公室的弗雷德·布鲁索(Fred Brousseau)说。根据该州的一个法律条款，房东如果要出售房屋，就可以让租金控制公寓的租户搬离，在过去三年中，这样的驱逐事件已经增加了两倍多，跟第一次科技热潮时的情况很相似。
To Yelly Brandon, a 36-year-old hairstylist and her boyfriend, Anthony Rocco, an archivist, the obstacles to finding housing became clear when they spent two months searching for an apartment. At open houses, they said, they were competing with young tech workers, who offered more than the asking price and cash up front.
36岁的耶莉·布兰登(Yelly Brandon)是一名发型师，她的男友安东尼·罗科(Anthony Rocco)是档案保管员，他们花了两个月时间寻找一套公寓，对找房子的困难比较了解。他们说，科技行业的年轻人会跟他们争夺挂牌出租的房子，对方的出价高于要价，而且可以先付现金。
“People were just throwing money in the air,” Ms. Brandon said.
“这些人就是在胡乱砸钱。”布兰登说。
The influx of wealth is, in turn, changing the tenor of neighborhoods. Fort Mason, a renovated military post on the bay, has been nicknamed “Frat Mason” for the 20-something “tech bros” — tech company salespeople, marketing employees and start-up founders — who have moved into luxury apartments there and play bocce on the great lawn.
富人的涌入也改变社区生活的基调。旧金山海湾的前军事基地梅森堡(Fort Mason)经过翻新后，有了“梅森兄弟会”(Frat Mason)的绰号，因为一些20多岁的“高科技兄弟”——高科技公司销售人员、营销人员和初创公司创始人——搬进了这里的豪华公寓，在大草坪上玩地掷球。
Nowhere are the changes starker than in the Mission District, once a working-class Hispanic neighborhood, now a destination for the tech elite.
旧金山没有哪个地方的变化比教会区更大了，这里曾经是西班牙裔工人阶级社区，现在它变成了高科技精英的聚集地。
“Some of the people in the stores that I knew, they are good people and nice people, and then I see them get evicted and then the people who move in there are not as nice,” said Rene Yañez, an artist and founder of Galería de la Raza in the 1970s, who started the procession. Mr. Yañez and his partner, who is battling cancer, are being evicted from the apartment they have occupied for decades.
“从前，我认识这一带的一些居民，他们是好人，很友善，我看到他们被赶了出去，然后一些不怎么友善的人搬了进来。”勒内·亚涅斯(Rene Yañez)说。他是一名艺术家，曾在20世纪70年代创办了GDLR画廊(Galería de la Raza)，就是他发起了这次游行。亚涅斯和他身患癌症的伴侣，有可能会被赶出他们已经住了数十年的公寓。
Evictions are higher in this neighborhood than in any other part of the city.
在这一带，居民被逐出的比例高于旧金山任何其他区域。
“They are not only expelling the homeless and the gangbangers,” said Guillermo Gómez-Peña, a performance artist. “They are also expelling the performance artists, the poets, the muralists, the activists, the working-class families — all these wonderful urban tribes that made this neighborhood a very special neighborhood for decades.”
“他们不仅驱逐无家可归者和黑帮分子，”表演艺术者吉列尔莫·戈麦斯-佩尼亚(Guillermo Gómez-Peña)说，“他们也驱逐表演艺术家、诗人、壁画家、活动家、工薪阶层家庭——几十年来，正是这些奇妙的城市部落，让附近一带的社区显得非常特别。”
“One day,” he added, “they will wake up to an extremely unbearable ocean of sameness.”
“有一天，”他说，“他们醒来，会看到不堪忍受的、千篇一律的景象。”
Some tech companies are trying to give back. Salesforce has donated millions of dollars to the public schools, and Twitter, which declined to comment on its effect on the city, is providing lawyers to help fight evictions, under an agreement with the city in exchange for tax breaks.
一些高科技公司正在设法回报这座城市。Salesforce公司捐赠了数百万美元给公立学校；Twitter拒绝对自己给旧金山带来的影响予以置评，但根据它跟市政府签订的一项协议，该公司将提供反驱逐的律师服务，以换取税收上的优惠。
But the onus, many people say, is really on the city government.
很多人说，真正负有责任的是市政府。
“There has to be some kind of public support to make sure you don’t just have a city of the very wealthy, but people to make the city run,” said Kevin Starr, an urban planning expert at the University of Southern California.
“政府必须提供某种支持，以确保一个城市里不仅有富人，也有那些让它运行下去的人。”南加州大学(University of Southern California)的城市规划专家凯文·斯塔尔(Kevin Starr)说。
“You can’t have a city of just rich people,” he said. “A city needs restaurant workers, a city needs schoolteachers, a city needs taxi drivers.”
“一个城市不能只有富人，”他说。“城市还需要餐饮工作者、教师、出租车司机。”