Ed Lee, a lawyer and affordable housing advocate who was the first Asian-American to be elected mayor of San Francisco, died early Tuesday in a hospital there after collapsing. He was 65 and in the midst of his second full term.
李孟贤(Ed Lee)是一名律师，经济适用房的提倡者，也是第一位当选旧金山市长的亚裔美国人，他晕倒后于周二早间在医院去世，终年65岁。他正在第二个市长任期内。
The cause was not immediately announced by his office. In a statement, the office said he died at 1:11 a.m. at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital.
他的办公室没有立即公布死亡原因。在一份声明中，市长办公室表示，他于凌晨1点11分在旧金山扎克伯格综合医院(Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital)去世。
Mr. Lee was in critical condition when he arrived at the hospital by ambulance shortly after 10 p.m. on Monday, according to Dr. Susan P. Ehrlich, the hospital’s chief executive. Mr. Lee’s family asked that further medical details not be released, she said.
医院院长苏珊·P·埃尔利希博士(Susan P. Ehrlich)表示，李孟贤在周一晚上十点刚过由救护车送到医院时，情况危急。她说，李孟贤的家人要求，不要公开进一步的治疗细节。
Local news accounts said Mr. Lee had collapsed while shopping at a supermarket.
当地新闻称，李孟贤在一家超市购物时晕倒。
London Breed, the president of the board of supervisors, was named acting mayor. Dennis Herrera, the city’s attorney, said the board can decide whether it wants to choose a replacement mayor before June, when an election will determine who will finish out Mr. Lee’s term. He was re-elected in 2015.
旧金山监督委员会主席伦敦·布里德(London Breed)被任命为代市长。该市检察官丹尼斯·赫雷拉(Dennis Herrera)称，监督委员会将决定是否在六月前挑选一名新市长，届时将由选举决定谁来完成李孟贤的任期。他在2015年再次当选市长一职。
Mr. Lee was a symbol of the city’s changing demographics, from a white majority to what the mayor called a “majority of minority groups.” Whites made up 42 percent of the population in the 2010 census, while Asians constituted a third of the population, Latinos about 15 percent and African-Americans 6 percent.
李孟贤象征了旧金山人口构成的变化，从白人为主演变成他所称的一个“由少数族群组占多数”的社会。在2010年的人口统计中，白人占了该市人口的42%，亚裔占了人口的三分之一，拉丁裔则占据15%，非裔美国人占6%。
Electing its first Chinese-American mayor was a milestone for a city that had a long history of discrimination against Chinese people.
选出第一位华裔美国人市长对这座在历史上长期歧视华人的城市来说，是一个里程碑。
As mayor, Mr. Lee presided over a tremendous shift in wealth in the city, driven by the technology boom that put San Francisco at the center of global innovation.
作为市长，李孟贤领导了该市一场巨大的财富更迭，受科技行业的繁荣驱动，旧金山成为全球创新中心。
Rents soared to levels only the wealthiest could afford, an ironic development for Mr. Lee, who lived in a public-housing project as a boy and began his career fighting for affordable housing. When he took office in 2011, the median home value in San Francisco was $656,500. Today it is about $1.25 million.
房租涨到了只有最富有的阶层才能负担的程度，这对于李孟贤来说是一个讽刺，他在童年时期住在廉价公共房，以推动经济适用房开启了他的事业。当他在2011年上任时，旧金山的房价中位数是65.65万美元。现在大约是125万美元。
A sharp rise in rents — the city’s median rent is about $4,300 — also pushed large segments of the middle class out of the city. Office rents in parts of the city rose higher than those in Manhattan.
房租价格的大幅上涨——该市的房租中位数约为4300美元——也把大量中产阶级挤出了这座城市。市区一些办公室的租金甚至超过了曼哈顿。
As mayor, Mr. Lee sought to maintain San Francisco as, in his words, an “international beacon.”
用李孟贤自己的话来说，他作为市长，要努力让旧金山保持成为一座“国际灯塔。”
“People come here to innovate, they want to have the ideas, they want to challenge themselves with different languages and different cultures and be successful at the same time,” he said.
“人们来这里搞创新，他们想得到灵感，他们想用不同的语言和不同的文化挑战自己，同时获得成功。”他说。
Edwin Mah Lee was born on May 5, 1952, in the Beacon Hill section of Seattle to Chinese immigrants who came to the United States in the 1930s. His mother was a seamstress; his father, a war veteran and a cook in a family restaurant, died when Mr. Lee was a teenager.
1852年5月5日，李孟贤出生在西雅图的灯塔山，他的父母是在1930年代来到美国的中国移民。他的母亲是一名裁缝；他的父亲是一名战争老兵，在一个家庭式餐馆担任厨师，他去世的时候，李孟贤还是一个青少年。
He and his five siblings grew up in a Seattle public housing complex before his parents built a modest home, Mr. Lee told The Los Angeles Times in 2015. Helping with the restaurant’s deliveries, he recalled, he heard customers castigate his father with racial slurs.
李孟贤在2015年告诉《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)，在他的父母修建了一个不大的家宅之前，他和五个兄弟姐妹在西雅图的一处廉价公屋长大。他回忆，在帮那家餐厅送外卖时，他听到顾客用含种族歧视的话辱骂他父亲。
“It was an awakening,” he told The Times. He said he wondered at the time, “Why do we as people take this?”
“我在那个时候觉醒了，”他对《洛杉矶时报》说。他说他那时候想，“我们是人，为什么要忍受这些？”
Mr. Lee received a full scholarship to attend Bowdoin College in Maine and, after graduating, moved to the Bay Area in 1975 to study law at the University of California, Berkeley.
李孟贤以全额奖学金到缅因州的鲍登学院(Bowdoin College)就读，毕业后，他在1975年搬到湾区，在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)攻读法律。
He told The New York Times last year that he had been drawn to San Francisco for its diversity and tolerance.
 他去年曾告诉《纽约时报》，他被旧金山的多样性和包容性所吸引。
“Being born and raised in Seattle, I wanted to get away from the rain, and, of course, sunny California was attractive,” Mr. Lee said. But he was mostly drawn, he said, by his sense that “maybe a person of a different ethnic background could be welcomed and succeed.”
“生长于西雅图，我想远离下雨天，那阳光灿烂的加利福尼亚当然就非常吸引我了，”李孟贤说道。但他说，最吸引他的还是他感到“一个有着不同种族背景的人可能会在这里受欢迎、有可能成功”。
He quickly became involved in the housing issues that would define his early career. His understanding of Cantonese and Taishanese helped him win the trust of immigrant communities, whom he fought for as part of the San Francisco Asian Law Caucus.
他很快便开始参与住房问题，这界定了他早期的职业生涯。他能听懂粤语和台山话，这帮助他赢得了移民群体的信任，他在旧金山亚洲法律联谊会(San Francisco Asian Law Caucus)曾为他们抗争。
After a decade, he left that organization and worked in a succession of five city departments under four mayors. He was appointed the city’s human rights commissioner in 1991 and city administrator in 2005.
十年后，他离开了亚洲法律联谊会，于4位市长手下先后在旧金山5个市政部门工作。1991年，他被任命为该市的人权委员会主任，2005年被任命为旧金山市府行政官。
Mr. Lee became mayor — originally interim mayor — in January 2011 when, ending weeks of disputes, the board of supervisors, in a 10-to-1 vote, chose him to fill out the term of Gavin Newsom, who had resigned the office after being elected lieutenant governor of California.
在2011年1月，经过数周争论，李孟贤成为了市长——首先是临时市长。旧金山监督委员会以10比1的投票选出李孟贤接替加文·纽瑟姆(Gavin Newsom)完成任期，纽瑟姆在当选加利福尼亚副州长之后便辞去了市长职务。
Mr. Lee at first expressed reluctance to hold the job beyond Mr. Newsom’s term, which was to end in January 2012. But he ultimately entered the race in August 2011 and was elected that November.
起初，对于在纽瑟姆2012年1月任期结束后继续担任市长，李孟贤表现出了不情愿。但他最终还是参与了2011年8月的竞选，并于同年11月当选市长。
He is survived by his wife, Anita, and two daughters, Tania and Brianna.
他身后留下了妻子林进敏(Anita)和两个女儿布里安娜(Brianna)和塔尼娅(Tania)。
Mr. Lee presided over one of the most explosive periods of growth in San Francisco’s history. Two decades earlier, the city’s business establishment was lamenting how the city’s reputation as a headquarters for major banking institutions and companies had eroded as firms left or were acquired in mergers.
在李孟贤任内，旧金山经历了该城史上最快的发展时期。20年前，该城的商界还因为公司撤离或被并购，导致曾经作为主要银行机构和公司大本营的旧金山声誉受损而深感遗憾。
But Mr. Lee, taking office in the aftermath of the Great Recession, worked to bring employers back and became a strong booster of development and growth, particularly in the technology industry.
但是在大衰退之后上任的李孟贤努力使雇主回流，使其成为发展和增长的强劲动力，尤其是在科技企业当中。
Though San Francisco had faced a yawning budget deficit and an unemployment rate above 10 percent after the recession, it rebounded. With its rapid growth, however, the city soon found itself grappling with an affordable housing crisis and a backlash by San Franciscans against the tech sector, one that was vividly dramatized in 2013 when protesters blocked and vandalized buses taking tech workers to their jobs in Silicon Valley.
尽管要面对巨大的财政赤字和在衰退之后超过10%的失业率，旧金山的经济开始反弹。但是，迅速发展的旧金山很快便发现自己陷入了经济住房危机和旧金山市民与科技行业的对抗之中，这种对抗在2013年到达了极点，表现为抗议群众阻挡并毁坏接送科技工作者去硅谷上班的班车。
Mr. Lee easily won re-election in 2015.
2015年，李孟贤轻松竞选连任。
This year, housing issues were again weighing on the city, and residents projected their frustrations onto the mayor. A column in The San Francisco Chronicle in May headlined “Where’s Ed Lee, our fading mayor?” questioned his ability to contend with the challenges facing the tech hub.
今年，城市的住房问题再次凸显，居民们将失望投射在了市长身上。《旧金山纪事报》(The San Francisco Chronicle)五月的一个专栏以“我们日渐无力的市长李孟贤在哪里？”为题，质问他是否有能力应对旧金山这个科技中心所面临的挑战。
But Mr. Lee could still be forceful on issues that mattered to him, and he retained his passion for immigrant rights. In January, in his State of the City address, he insisted that San Francisco would remain a sanctuary city, limiting its cooperation with the federal government on immigration laws, “now, tomorrow, forever.”
但李孟贤仍能有力处理他所关心的议题，对移民权利问题依然怀有热情。一月，在市情咨文中，李孟贤坚持认为旧金山一直都会是庇护之城，对联邦政府的移民法律有保留地配合，“现在是，明天是，以后也是。”