If content is still king in a media business challenged by new technologies and nimble upstarts, Rupert Murdoch hungers to wear the crown.
媒体业务正在遭受新技术和灵活的新兴企业的挑战，如果说在这个行业中依然是“内容为王”，那么鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)对戴上王冠充满了渴望。
His biggest and boldest bid yet emerged on Wednesday: an $80 billion takeover offer for Time Warner Inc., which would be the biggest media deal in more than a decade.
本周三，默多克发出了他最大的、也是最自信的收购要约：800亿美元洽购时代华纳公司(Time Warner Inc.)。如果成功，这将会是媒体行业十多年来最大的一起交易。
While Time Warner has rebuffed his effort and no talks are underway, Murdoch is determined and unlikely to walk away anytime soon, according to people briefed on the matter. And he has a track record of pursuing companies that first said no before giving in.
虽然时代华纳已经拒绝他，也没有任何谈判正在进行中，但知情人士表示，默多克决心已定，不会轻易放弃。他之前收购的一些公司中，也有最初拒绝收购，后来却屈服了的情况。
His pursuit is likely to set off a wave of takeover battles elsewhere in the industry as others race to keep up with the 83-year-old mogul. By bidding for Time Warner, Murdoch's 21st Century Fox is seeking to create a colossus in the television and film industries at a time when both face pressure from the growing power of cable companies like Comcast and online video giants like Google.
默多克此举很可能会在媒体行业掀起一波收购战，因为其他公司将竞相采取行动，跟上这位83岁大亨的步伐。默多克的21世纪福克斯公司(21st Century Fox)希望通过收购时代华纳，成为影视业的一个巨擘，目前这两家公司都日益面临着康卡斯特(Comcast)等有线电视公司，以及谷歌等网络视频巨头的压力。
Combining 21st Century Fox and Time Warner would bring under one roof some of the biggest sources of content: HBO, one of the most lucrative cable channels; Fox Broadcasting; and the movie studios Warner Bros. and 20th Century Fox. It would unite “Game of Thrones” and televising NASCAR, as well as “The Lord of the Rings” and “Dawn of the Planet of the Apes.”
21世纪福克斯和时代华纳如果合并，就会把一些最大的内容源带到同一屋檐下，它们中有最赚钱的有线电视频道之一HBO，福克斯广播(Fox Broadcasting)，以及电影公司华纳兄弟(Warner Bros)和20世纪福克斯(20th Century Fox)。这样一来，《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)和美国运动汽车竞赛协会(NASCAR)的赛事转播就会同属一家，《指环王》(The Lord of the Rings)和《猿星黎明》(Dawn of the Planet of the Apes)也是如此。
But it would not include CNN, which Fox plans to sell in any deal to allay concerns from antitrust regulators.
但其中不会包括CNN，因为福克斯计划出售CNN，以缓解来自反垄断监管机构的忧虑。
Recalling the swashbuckling empire-building of the 1980s, the Time Warner bid is the largest yet in a year full of big mergers. Both Comcast and AT&T are pursuing enormous takeovers aimed at giving them more heft in fee negotiations with the likes of 21st Century Fox, Time Warner, Viacom and CBS.
虽然这一年来出现了很多大规模兼并，默多克对时代华纳的出价仍然是最大的一笔，让人想起上世纪80年代那些肆无忌惮构建帝国的努力。康卡斯特和AT&T都在开展大规模收购，以便能在和21世纪福克斯、时代华纳、维亚康姆(Viacom)和CBS等公司的费用谈判中拥有更多筹码。
Looming large over these deals is the competitive threat from Silicon Valley. Internet giants Google, Amazon, Netflix and others are pouring resources into original content and developing the next-generation television companies.
在这些交易之上笼罩着一个威胁，它就是来自硅谷的竞争。谷歌、亚马逊、Netflix等互联网巨头不仅正在把大量资源投入到原创内容中，而且还在发展下一代电视公司。
Analysts have predicted that content producers would need to fight back by merging. Indeed, programming executives have expressed concern behind the scenes that they will lose their leverage and have a tougher time negotiating fee increases should the Comcast and AT&T deals go through. Several have knocked on the doors of the pay-television operators seeking to renegotiate programming distribution deals before the mergers close.
分析师们认为，内容创作者将需要通过兼并来予以反击。负责安排电视节目的高管们确实曾在私下里表示过担心：如果康卡斯特和AT&T的交易完成，他们就会丧失优势，在增加费用的谈判中遇到更大的阻力。这些兼并交易还没有完成，一些公司已经主动找上付费电视运营商，希望重新谈判关于节目播放的协议。
“In our view, the media industry in recent months has felt like a tinderbox waiting for the match to strike,” David Bank, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said in a research note on Wednesday. “Regardless of the outcome of this potential combination, we believe it will be tough to put the toothpaste back in the tube and sentiment-wise, the game of consolidation will now be afoot.”
“我们觉得，最近几个月来，传媒业就像是一个等待火柴引燃的火药桶，”加拿大皇家银行资本市场(RBC Capital Markets)的分析师戴维·班克(David Bank)在在本周三的一份研究报告中说。“不管这个并购提议的结局如何，我们相信，你都很难再把牙膏吸回牙膏管，从形势来看，兼并活动正在蓄势待发。”
While it is unclear how people will consume media in the coming years, one thing is certain, media executives say privately: Size matters.
虽然目前还不清楚，在未来的一些年里，人们如何将消费媒体内容，但有一点可以肯定，就是媒体高管私下所说的：规模很重要。
Already, companies like Discovery Communications have weighed takeovers, while 21st Century Fox itself has considered smaller acquisitions like Scripps, the owner of HGTV and Food Network, or Univision.
目前，像探索传播(Discovery Communications)等公司都已经考虑过进行收购，而21世纪福克斯本身也考虑过小一些的收购目标，比如收购HGTV和美食电视网(Food Network)的拥有者斯克里普斯(Scripps)，或者悠景(Univision)。
“If you're not looking at consolidation yet, you have to reconsider,” said Tony Wible, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott.
“如果你眼下没有考虑合并，你就必须得好好再想想了，”美国评级机构詹尼-蒙哥马利-斯科特(Janney Montgomery Scott)的分析师托尼·威布尔(Tony Wible)说。
In Time Warner, 21st Century Fox has determined that its assets would yield the most benefits. Owning so many content creators and outlets would give 21st Century Fox enormous heft, from securing the best new programming and movies to blanketing it through an unrivaled number of high-profile channels, both on traditional platforms like cable and online.
21世纪福克斯已经认定，如果收购时代华纳，其资产将产生最大的效益。一旦拥有如此多的内容创作者和渠道，21世纪福克斯会获得巨大优势，既能取得最优质的新节目和电影，又能用在数量上无可匹敌的知名频道传播，不管是在有线电视这样的传统平台上，还是在互联网上。
A deal would also give Fox Sports important broadcasting rights that Time Warner owns for professional and college basketball and Major League Baseball, important ammunition as the division seeks to challenge the power of ESPN.
如果这笔交易达成，福克斯体育(Fox Sports)也会获得时代华纳拥有的职业篮球、大学篮球、棒球大联盟(Major League Baseball)赛事转播权，这些转播权颇为重要，可以在福克斯体育努力挑战ESPN势力的时候提供巨大帮助。
Time Warner, confirming on Wednesday that it had spurned the offer, said that the company would fare better on its own.
本周三，时代华纳确认了它已拒绝这一提议的消息，该公司表示，靠自己自己发展得会更好。
“Our business plans will create significantly more value for the company and our shareholders, and that's superior to any proposal that Fox is in a position to offer,” argued Jeffrey Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, in a video for employees that was made public.
“我们的商业计划将会为公司和股东创造明显更多的价值，优于福克斯能够给出的任何提议，”时代华纳首席执行官杰弗里·比克斯(Jeffrey Bewkes)在一个被公开的内部员工视频中表示。
Still, Time Warner shareholders on Wednesday appeared to think a deal, whether with 21st Century Fox or another buyer, is inevitable. Shares of the company jumped 17 percent Wednesday, to $83.13.
不过，时代华纳的股东本周三似乎觉得，无论买家是21世纪福克斯还是其他公司，时代华纳被并购在所难免。该公司股价在周三大涨17%，报收83.13美元（约合520元人民币）。
Potentially helping the cause of 21st Century Fox is the fact that both companies share many of the same shareholders, particularly large mutual funds like Wellington Capital Management and T. Rowe Price. A deal that would benefit both funds could lead them to put pressure on the Time Warner chief executive and his board to enter into talks.
有一个因素可能会帮助21世纪福克斯达成这笔交易，即两家公司有很多同样的股东，尤其是大型共同基金，比如威灵顿资本管理机构(Wellington Capital Management)和普信(T. Rowe Price)。如果交易达成，这两家基金可以从中受益，因此二者或许会给时代华纳首席执行官及其董事会施压，让他们与21世纪福克斯谈判。