The fashion industry is broken in more ways than one: runway shows don’t match retail expectations; designers can’t keep up with demand; and customers can’t buy a coat in winter. So who’s to blame?
时装业正在经历一场裂变：秀场设计与零售期待不合；设计师们无法满足市场需求；消费者在冬天却买不到大衣。这到底是谁的错？
I WAS CHATTING WITH THE HOT young London designer Jonathan Anderson, marveling at how in just three years he had matched his transgender frilly men’s wear with the addition of his intriguing women’s collections.
我正在和伦敦当下当红的年轻设计师乔纳森·安德森(Jonathan Anderson)闲聊，话题围绕在他是怎样在短短三年内将自己跨性别的褶边男装系列与新近开发的女装系列相呼应的。
“What’s that?” I asked, looking at a spread of drawings on the wall of his studio-cum-workroom in London’s down-at-the-heels Dalston neighborhood. (Think: East Village.)
“那是什么？”我问，目光落在他工作室墙上的一系列手稿上，这是位于伦敦最南端的达尔斯顿街区（相当于纽约曼哈顿东区）的一间敞开式工作室。
“Resort!” said the 28-year-old Northern Irishman whose label is known as J. W. Anderson.
“度假系列！”这位28岁的北爱尔兰男子答道。他把自己的品牌命名为J·W·Anderson。
Resort? Already! This guy has been in business only five years and has just 12 people in his studio. Does he really have to join the fashion treadmill, churning out more than four collections a year? A treadmill it is, as Alber Elbaz of Lanvin said with a sigh recently, before his men’s-wear show: he used to go on exploratory trips and hang out in downtown galleries, trawling for inspiration for his shows. But with the number of collections now doubled, there is no time to do much travel beyond the virtual kind.
度假系列？已经开始了吗？这个男人才入行五年，工作室里只有12名雇员。而他真的必须踏上时装界这台大跑步机的传送带，每年努力倒腾超过四个设计系列吗？时装产业就是一台跑步机。浪凡(Lanvin)创意总监阿尔伯·艾尔巴茨(Alber Elbaz)在他最近的男装系列发布会之前无奈地承认，自己曾经在四处旅行和各处艺术馆中汲取创作灵感，然而随着发布会数量翻倍，他唯一能做的旅行是在网络世界里。
If we accept that the pace of fashion today was part of the problem behind the decline of John Galliano, the demise of Alexander McQueen and the cause of other well-known rehab cleanups, nonstop shows seem a high price to pay for the endless “newness” demanded of fashion now.
如果我们认为，今天时装产业的新步调是约翰·加利亚诺(John Galliano)的倒退、亚历山大·麦克奎恩(Alexander McQueen)的早逝和众多品牌的整改换血背后反映出的问题的一部分，那么，无休止的发布会恰恰是为了迎合今天时装界对“新”的需索无度而付出的过高代价。
The strain on both budgets and designers is heavy. And only the fat-cat corporations can really afford to put on two mega ready-to-wear shows a year, or four if you add two haute couture shows, or six if you count men’s wear. Resort and prefall push the number up to eight. A couple of promotional shows in Asia, Brazil, Dubai or Moscow can bring the count to 10.
无论是对品牌还是设计师们来说，压力都很大。只有真正的一线大公司才能在经济上承受一年办两次大规模的成衣发布会，如果加上两场高定发布会就是四次，甚至六次——如果再把男装发布算上。度假和早秋系列将把这个数字增加到八。再加上一系列在亚洲、巴西、迪拜或莫斯科的推广发布会，总数完全可能到达十场。
Ten shows a year! If you knock off the holiday season and the summer break, that means a show nearly every month.
一年十场发布会！如果忽略假日季和暑假，那意味着几乎月月都有秀。
But who needs more fashion and is gagging for yet another show? And how can designers cope, given that even the prolific Picasso did not churn out work like factory-baked cookies?
到底谁需要那么多时尚？谁在抵死呼唤多一场秀？设计师们该如何是好？在这种形势下，即使高产如毕加索恐怕也没法儿不产生像批量生产的饼干一样的作品吧。
It is not just creatives who are under pressure. We editors might love, love, love! a fall collection, but before it is even delivered to American stores in August for our readers to savor, fashion is on to the next big thing. (Retail shipping dates vary in different international cities.) A round of resort shows starts during the early summer months, over a six-week period. There might be new ideas, simpler, more wearable styles or even a negation of what went before. But not to worry! The fall collection will be gone from the stores in approximately two months, with unsold pieces we had raved about hanging forlornly as markdowns.
不只是创意工作者们有压力。我们时装编辑爱煞了这一季秋装，而它们要到8月才会进入美国的百货公司供读者们品鉴，此时时尚早已开始转向下一季了（不同国家不同城市的零售货运周期还不一样）。新一轮的度假系列在初夏的几个月内陆续发布，为期六周。你会看到新的潮流，比如更简约、更易穿着或是更加怀旧。所以别着急！秋装将会在两个月内从百货公司下架，那些我们心向往之的秋季单品们将被降价处理。
For all the promotional excitement attached to the international collections, it is the resort or prefall lines that are on the shelves for close to six months, while the so-called main line is in and out in about eight brief weeks.
无论在各大系列中看到的潮流点有多令人兴奋，只有度假和早秋两条线会持续销售大概六个月，而所谓的主线系列上架短短八周就会被替换。
How to make sense of this endless rush for the new when there are no longer any simple markers, like seasons? During the summer, when you are looking for a breezy maxi dress, the fall wool coats are hanging on the rails. Come early November, they will have vanished in favor of resort, which used to be called cruise, as if everyone hopped on a boat to the Caribbean with the first autumn chill.
到底这些无休止的更新有什么意义呢？尤其当我们连更新的坐标，比如季节，都已不复存在的时候。当你在夏天里寻找一条飘逸的大长裙的时候，挂在货架上的却是秋冬的羊毛大衣。11月初再去看时，它们已经消失为度假系列让路。而度假系列，它们曾经被称为早春系列（cruise原意为巡航，特指游艇上的穿着，后被演绎为早春风格——译注），就好像谁都愿意在瑟瑟秋风中跳上甲板驶向加勒比海似的。
Who are the crazy ones? The buying public demanding fashion now!, clicking online to buy during Burberry’s live-stream runway show months before the clothes are produced for the stores? The online shoppers hitting on special delivery pieces from Net-a-Porter that no one else will have — at least for the next two weeks?
到底是谁在制造疯狂？是那些要立竿见影的网络买家们！他们在博柏利(Burberry)的全球现场直播秀过程中就开始狂按鼠标下单，那时距离新品上架尚有几个月的时间。网络购物者们通过颇特女士（Net-a-Porter，英国奢侈品购物网站）来购买那些别人绝对不会（至少在两周之内）拥有的限时专送款。
Or has fashion itself gone mad, gathering speed so ferociously that it seems as if the only true luxury today is the ability to buy new and exclusive clothes every microsecond?
亦或是时尚本身已经疯了？如此穷凶极恶地全速前进，就好像今天真正的奢侈在于能在一百万分之一秒内买到一件限量版的新品？
There is no doubt that online shopping has fed the craze for speed, because when you can’t touch the fabric or try on the outfit, the only emotion you experience is the excitement of the purchase and the thrill of beating everyone else to it.
毫无疑问，网络购物滋养了对速度的狂热，因为当你既摸不到布料又没法儿试穿某件衣服的时候，你唯一能体会的激情就只能来自于购买和打败所有人的快感。
Then there is a further, phony current of desire and longing, stage-managed by e-tailers and stores. They whip up excitement with their so-called limited editions, with the waiting list to buy a bag or the mapping out of objects to specific countries. I will never forget an oligarch’s wife telling everyone at a Ralph Lauren event in Moscow that she had taken a private plane to Cannes, in the South of France, to be the first in her country to get one of the designer’s “Ricky” alligator bags.
所以，这是一种由网络卖家和电商背后操控、欲望和渴求的更深层次的虚假趋势。他们用所谓的限量版、限量包的等待名单或是某国特供款等等方式来刺激人们的欲望。我永远也不会忘记在莫斯科，一位政治家的妻子在拉尔夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的活动上告诉所有人她怎样乘坐私人飞机去往法国南部的戛纳，成为她们国家第一个拿到该设计师的“Ricky”系列鳄鱼皮包的人。
With the world’s press gathering in New York for the spring 2014 season’s official September kickoff — followed by London, Milan, Paris and then shortly thereafter for prefall — who can define the purpose of these different shows? Do we take the current international spring and fall presentations as an expression of pure creative imagination, as opposed to the more commercial collections that customers are likely to buy? When I started my editor’s job, so many moons ago, haute couture had just stopped being a one-to-one with wealthy clients and had become a laboratory of ideas. That now seems to be the role of international ready-to-wear.
今年9月，世界各大媒体聚集纽约，开启2014年春夏时装周的第一站，接下来是伦敦、米兰和巴黎，紧接着就要迎来早秋系列的发布。谁能定义这些秀的目的何在？我们是把当下国际时装周展示当做纯粹的创意表达，还是更注重商业性以吸引消费者购买的设计系列？当我刚开始干编辑这一行的时候——那是很多年以前的事情了，高级定制刚刚结束只向富有的客户提供一对一服务，而转变为一种创意实验。而现在扮演这个角色的似乎是成衣设计。
Being a lover of fashion that stretches the outer limits of a designer’s imagination, I always favor powerful runway shows. But — full disclosure now — I don’t actually know or write much about the resort collections, other than when Karl Lagerfeld offered a midseason Chanel show at the Château de Versailles, or Dior was presented in Monaco. Since I already spend five weeks at a time hopping between fashion capitals, there is no way that I can spend an extra month in New York — even if that is where the majority of salable designer clothes are seen.
作为一个专门无限延伸设计师们想像力的时尚爱好者，我当然热爱一线大牌的时装秀。但是，开诚布公地说，除了季中卡尔·拉格菲尔德(Karl Lagerfeld)在凡尔赛宫举办的香奈儿(Chanel)的发布会，或迪奥(Dior)在摩纳哥的发布会外，我实际上并不了解或写过太多本季的度假系列。因为我已经连续五周在世界时装之都之间来回跑，实在是没有余力再在纽约呆一个月，即使那里是世界上大多数畅销设计师品牌的聚集地。
Chief executives mutter privately about the high cost of maintaining “freshness,” yet they know that showing resort in New York has become a second and vital tool in worldwide promotion and that those sales can make up around three-quarters of a brand’s annual income. The story here is also about control, with the work of the big fashion houses increasingly unfiltered by journalistic critiques or magazine spreads. The clothes most worn by people are the clothes least commented on by the press. The images now go directly to customers via online shows with advertising campaigns as a backup.
品牌高层们私下里常常念叨为了保持“新鲜感”而付出的高成本，然而他们知道在纽约展示度假系列已经成为第二甚至第一重要的全球推广手段，这个系列的销售业绩占品牌全年大约四分之三的收入。这也是一个关于控制的故事，大型时装企业的产品被越来越多的期刊评论和杂志不加过滤地进行扩散。人们穿得最多的衣服恰恰是传媒评论得最少的。通过网络直播直接被消费者看到的秀场画面只是作为品牌的广告而存在。
With the traditional six-month lead time on the delivery of international show content, designer collections can be outpaced by the so-called fast fashion chains. H&M, Topshop and Zara, or even Target and J. Crew, would have their versions for sale before the designer looks hit the stores.
在传统的六个月从秀场到货架的行销周期下的设计师品牌，很容易被所谓快销时装链品牌超越。H&M、Topshop和Zara,甚至Target和J.Crew这样的品牌，都有可能在大牌设计师的产品上架之前，就已将与其同一季的系列进行打折处理（快销时装链品牌通常是在大牌设计师的发布会上抓住流行点以设计自己同一季的产品——译注）。
So the pace of high fashion had to become equally frenetic. Both the management and the creatives are under constant, year-round pressure, especially the European designers who are obliged to show in New York, bringing in their teams, chasing the best models and replaying the tension and drama of yet another runway show. And this additional pressure is not just for one extra season, but twice a year — after resort comes spring and after that prefall — in a whirligig that seems to be spinning out of control.
这就是为什么高级时装变得同样的狂躁了。从管理到设计都在承受长期的、持续整年的压力。尤其当欧洲的设计师们必须在纽约举办发布会时，他们携带庞大的团队，争夺最顶尖的模特，一遍一遍重演上一场发布会所经历的紧张与幺蛾子。而且这种压力并不只经历多一季而已，而是一年两次！在度假系列之后紧接着就是春夏系列的发布然后就是早秋，好一个失控的旋转木马！
Does this nonstop parade of what’s new have an upside? With global warming upsetting traditional summer and winter climates, and with a global market expecting clothes at once suitable to a warm and humid Singapore, the deep freeze of Russia and the upside-down seasons in Australia, all these fresh fashion shows each month could be seen as logical for customers.
难道这些不消停的新品展示就没有积极的一面吗？全球变暖在重新设置传统意义上的夏季和冬季气候，全球市场都可能需要曾经只适合新加坡那样温暖潮湿气候的衣服，或是像俄罗斯那样极寒，亦或是澳大利亚那样季节相反的衣服。那些月月进行的发布会可能对消费者们来说是完全合理的。
But whoever said that logic and fashion make a good fit? As the fashion carousel spins ever faster, the concern is that, while the stream of newness never runs out, there’s going to be a good deal more crash and burn among designers in the future.
然而，谁说过理性与时尚能和谐共处？当时尚的旋转木马转得越来越快，我关心的是，如果对更新的无度追求继续下去，未来必将有一大批的设计师成为炮灰。