One sunny afternoon last month, an artist who describes himself as an “architect for the contemporary bird” appeared before an empty storefront in SoHo, climbed a telescoping ladder and took measurements for what would be his next finch-size masterwork.
上个月（6月——译注），在一个阳光灿烂的午后，一位自称“当代鸟类建筑师”的艺术家在苏豪区(SoHo)一家空荡荡的店面前现身。他爬上一把伸缩梯，开始为新设计丈量尺寸。那或许就将是他的下一个鸟巢大小的“杰作”。
He had arrived, casually, a few minutes earlier, wearing dark coveralls and wheeling a dolly that held the ladder and other supplies. Then he put on a white hard hat, a tool belt and a reflective orange safety vest. “Usually, I walk around in costume,” he said, referring to his strategy of dressing as a city worker so as not to be stopped while doing something that is technically illegal. “But I can’t handle the heat too well.”
他谨慎地提前到达了几分钟。只见他穿着深色工装裤，推着一个手推车，上面装着伸缩梯和其他工具。然后他戴上一顶白色安全帽，挂上工具腰带，并穿上一件橙色的反光安全背心。“一般情况下，我走到哪儿都会穿着制服。”在谈及他为何穿得像一名城市工人时，他这样说，通过这一策略，他在进行一些理论上属于非法的事情时，才不会被阻止。“但是我不太受得了那种闷热的感觉。”
The pigeons didn’t notice him. Neither did the police.
鸽子们没有注意到他。警察也没有。
XAM is the name he uses to preserve his anonymity (he agreed to be interviewed only on the condition that we use it, too). He has been hanging street art for three years now in the form of birdhouses. Although the term seems inadequate, these structures are, in fact, functioning shelters for birds. But many also have jigsaw angles and purple-camouflage paint schemes, and features like passive ventilation systems, green roofs, gravity-controlled feeders and solar-powered LED porch lights that attract insects.
这位艺术家用“XAM”这个名字替代自己的真名（他同意接受采访的条件就是，我们也使用这个名字）。他从事街头艺术已有三年时间，目前的作品形式是鸟舍。或许这个定义还有点不够全面，事实上，这些建筑物是“鸟类的功能性庇护所”。许多鸟舍都有拼接的折角、紫色的伪装涂料，以及诸如被动通风系统、绿植屋顶、重力喂食器和吸引小虫子的太阳能LED灯等诸多特征。
In a comment on the mortgage crisis, some have “Bank Owned” or “Foreclosure” signs plastered across the entry holes. And many are equipped with (nonworking) rooftop satellite dishes.
作为对次贷危机的一种回应，一些鸟舍入口处的洞上还被印有“银行收回”或者“止赎收回”的小标签贴满。还有许多鸟舍的房顶架设着（不工作的）卫星天线锅。
The Urban Habitat project, as XAM calls his work, was part of the New Museum’s Idea City Festival in May, and his birdhouses were also shown at Dorian Grey Gallery in the East Village. But new installations continue to pop up all the time in cities like New York, Los Angeles and Mexico City.
而被XAM自称为“城市栖息地工程”(The Urban Habitat project)的这份工作，是纽约新博物馆(New Museum)五月举办的“理想城市节”(Idea City Festival)活动的一部分。他所创作的鸟舍也在纽约东村(East Village)的多里·格雷画廊(Dorian Grey Gallery)展出。新的装置也不断在诸如纽约、洛杉矶和墨西哥城这样的城市里突然涌现出来。
Christopher Pusey, an owner of the gallery, said it is the mix of form and function that sets the birdhouses apart from most ephemeral street art he encounters. “I was blown away by the precision” of the construction, Mr. Pusey said. “They’re clever in a very creative way.”
画廊的主人克里斯托弗·普西(Christopher Pusey)说，这种将形式与功能结合在一起的鸟舍，与他在街头碰到的大部分短命的街头艺术创作迥然不同。“如此精密的结构，令我非常震惊，”普西说，“它们以一种很具创意的方式，展现出巧妙的特征。”
Still, the birdhouses aren’t intended to hang in a white-walled room but in the street, where XAM has installed more than 100 since 2010, from Bushwick, Brooklyn, to Boyle Heights in Los Angeles. Of course, in neighborhoods where residents are attuned to street art, urban birds, as intrepid as they are, rarely stand a chance.
然而，鸟舍并不是要留在室内的白色墙壁上，而是要挂到街头去。自2010年以来，XAM安装了100多个鸟舍，从布鲁克林区的布什维克(Bushwick)，到洛杉矶的博伊尔高地(Boyle Heights)。当然，在那些居民追捧街头艺术的社区里，同样勇猛的都市鸟族就鲜有入住机会了。
“In Los Angeles, I have this favorite area near downtown that’s very industrial,” XAM said. “I’ve gone back multiple times and I still see my units up. If I put one up in Williamsburg, it may be gone tomorrow.”
“在洛杉矶有一块我特别喜欢的区域，位于市中心附近，是一个很工业化的地方。”XAM说，“我多次回到那里，看到我建的小房子还在原处。如果我在威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)安装这么一个鸟舍，第二天准没了。”
XAM, who is 30 and lives with his wife in Bedford-Stuyvesant, has an unusual background for a Brooklyn street artist. He grew up in Santa Barbara, Calif., and studied architecture and design at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Now, he said, he makes a living doing odd jobs: part-time building maintenance, freelance graphic design, working as a lighting technician at events.
XAM今年30岁，和太太一起住在贝德福德-史岱文森(Bedford-Stuyvesant)，是一位有着特殊背景的街头艺术家。他在加利福尼亚州的圣芭芭拉市(Santa Barbara)长大，在芝加哥艺术学院学习了建筑和设计。现在，据他自称，他靠做一些奇怪的工作为生：兼职做一些楼宇的维护工作、自由平面设计师，遇上一些活动的时候，他还会去做灯光技师。
It was his interest in taking things apart to see how they work that led him to create an alter-ego, a robot called XAM. (The name is all capital letters, he said, so that it reads like an acronym, although the letters don’t actually stand for anything.) XAM the robot likes to demolish contemporary architecture, his version of taking things apart, but he atones for it by making birdhouses. The robot’s body appears in an abstract form in the purple blocks of color on many of the birdhouses.
他的兴趣就是拆解各种东西，好看清它们的工作原理。这种兴趣引导他制作出了“另一个自己”，一个叫作“XAM”的机器人（他说这个名字里的三个字母都要大写，这样读起来就像一个缩写词，不过这几个字母实际上并不代表任何意思）。机器人XAM喜欢推倒现代建筑，这是他拆解东西的方式；但他建造鸟舍，作为补偿。在许多鸟舍上的紫色色块中，都能看到这个机器人身体的抽象形式。
At first, XAM designed standardized units and placed them wherever he saw a good lofty street sign, heading out around 5:30 a.m., when there were few pedestrians or authorities to notice a guy with dreadlocks shimmying up a pole.
最初，XAM设计的鸟舍都是标准化的。他在哪里看到不错的高大路标，就将鸟舍安在哪里。他一般清晨五点半开始行动，这样就没有路人或者市政官员会注意到，有这么一位满头辫子的人在爬杆子。
Lately, he has been using old L-brackets or other architectural details on building exteriors as ad-hoc hooks and designing site-specific birdhouses. The construction-worker outfit allows him to perform covert research, and adds a bit of theater.
最近，他开始在大楼外墙上使用老式L型支架或其它建筑构件，比如临时的钩子，还有因地制宜设计的鸟舍。建筑工人的全套装备不仅助他完成隐秘的研究，还能增加几分戏剧效果。
At the building in SoHo, a thin beam jutted out appealingly under the fire escape, and a “For Rent” sign seemed to promise a hassle-free installation. After taking measurements, XAM will design the birdhouse at home with a computer program, before taking the blueprints to a friend who owns a laser cutter.
苏豪区的一座建筑上有条细梁，突兀地架在防火通道下方，一块“此房出租”的牌子好像确保了在此地安装鸟舍不会有什么麻烦。经过丈量后，XAM就会在家用计算机程序设计鸟舍，设计好之后他会把蓝图带到一个有激光切割机的朋友那里。
“This piece may take me 10 hours to make,” he said, packing up his ladder and gear. “They’re pretty labor-intensive.”
“做这么一块可能需要花上10个小时，”他边说，边拿起他的梯子和装备，“它们真是相当耗时耗力。”
A few days later, he was back in SoHo, wearing his hard hat and orange vest. This time, he was carrying a new birdhouse in his backpack. It featured by-now-standard luxuries of eco-friendly modern bird living, like a green roof and a solar-powered porch light, but was unpainted and shell-like. Like any engaged architect, XAM has been experimenting with new materials, in his case cellulose board and a low-VOC sealant, and he wanted to test the sealant before painting the house.
几天后，他戴着安全帽、穿着橙色马甲回到苏豪区。这一次，他用背包带回一个新鸟舍。这件作品简直代表了符合环保理念的现代鸟类生活的最前沿的奢华范本。比如绿植屋顶和太阳能门廊灯。但未刷油漆，有者壳型构造。同任何一位全力以赴的建筑师一样，XAM也实验了许多新材料，在制作这个鸟舍时，他采用了纤维素板和低挥发性的密封剂。他想在为整个鸟舍上漆之前，检测一下这种密封剂的性能到底如何。
“I wouldn’t have considered myself a birder before this, but I am turning into a birder,” he said.
“在做鸟舍之前，我从来不觉得自己是个爱鸟人，但现在， 我正在变成一个鸟类爱好者。”他说。
He fiddled with the solar-driven light. “If it has a full charge, it will shine for eight hours and attract insects,” he said. “The purple martin has to eat half its body weight in insects a day.”
他拨弄着太阳能灯。“如果充满电，它会亮八个小时，吸引许多昆虫，”他说，“北美洲紫燕一天需要吃的昆虫重量相当于它体重的一半。”
The installation took all of five minutes. No one on the street paid much attention, except for a guy who rushed over excitedly thinking XAM was the same street artist who had painted graffiti on the building’s facade.
装好一个鸟舍只需要五分钟。街上几乎没有人注意到，除了一个突然冲过来的人。此人兴奋地认为XAM是和他们一样要在墙上涂鸦的街头艺术家。
He looked at XAM in his construction get-up, and then up at the little structure. One feared the birds would not be long for this house.
他看着XAM这身建筑工的装扮，又看看那个小装置。这个人担心，鸟儿们不会太喜欢这间房子。