When Natalie Massenet ascended the stairs of the Carnegie Hall stage a month ago to accept a Woman of the Year trophy from Glamour magazine, she outdid Jennifer Lawrence at the 2013 Oscars ceremony, nearly tripping on her Alessandra Rich white lace gown (soon available for upward of $3,000 at Net-a-Porter, the online luxury retailer she founded) before impaling the hem with her high-heeled sandals.
一个月前，当娜塔莉·马斯内(Natalie Massenet)在纽约卡内基大厅登台领取由《魅力》(Glamour)杂志颁发的年度女性大奖时，她遭遇了比詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrence)在2013年奥斯卡颁奖礼上被长裙绊了一跤更尴尬的一幕。她不但被她的Alessandra Rich的白色蕾丝礼服绊了一下，高跟鞋的鞋跟还把裙摆戳了一个洞。
Time froze. The honoree swayed. Gasps filled the audience, already suffering emotional whiplash from a just-ended tribute to Melinda Gates’s philanthropy, as presenters struggled to disentangle Ms. Massenet from her dress.
时间静止在那一瞬间。获奖人摇摇欲坠，而观众们感情尚未平复：在她上台之前，典礼刚向米兰达·盖茨(Melinda Gates)的慈善事业做出了致敬，观众们深受感动。这会儿不少人发出了惊呼，而典礼的主持人费力地把马斯内女士从裙子的羁绊中解救出来。
“Death by stiletto,” she joked limply after at last reaching the podium.
“高跟鞋引发的惨案，” 好不容易到达了讲台后，马斯内气喘吁吁地开玩笑说。
It was a rare awkward moment for a woman who has evolved from scrappy Internet pioneer, peddling designer clothes over pokey modems out of a small apartment in London’s Chelsea neighborhood, to consolidating a power of unusual breadth over the fashion industry.
这对马斯内来说是一个罕有的尴尬时刻。这位互联网的急先锋利用速度缓慢的调制解调器，在伦敦切尔西地区的一间狭小公寓里贩卖名牌服装白手起家。而现如今她成就了大业，在时尚界的影响力有着不同寻常的广度。
In 2010, Ms. Massenet sold a majority stake in Net-a-Porter to the Swiss holding company Richemont, remaining executive chairman; her brand extensions include the Outnet, a discount site, and Mr. Porter (pronounced the American way) for men, all winging their wares to customers within days, sometimes hours, via branded black vans (surely before long there will be a Jet-a-Porter).
马斯内在2010年把Net-a-Porter的大部分股份卖给了瑞士控股公司历峰集团(Richemont)，自己还继续担任执行董事长。她的扩充品牌还包括Outnet——一个专卖打折服装的网站和专卖男装的Mr Porter（这里的Porter是按美式读法发音）。这些网站都配备了印有品牌标识的黑色箱式货车，在顾客下单的几天，有时是几个小时之内就能把货物送达顾客手上（肯定不久有一天Porter品牌就会有自己的运货飞机了）。
A year ago, she was appointed chairwoman of the British Fashion Council, a role she described with crisp authority in an interview as “thinking big picture, gross domestic product, exports and jobs.”
一年之前，马斯内被任命为英国时装协会主席。在一次采访中，马斯内简短有力地这样描述自己的职责：着眼大局，考虑GDP、出口和创造就业机会。
And while publications like Glamour, Vogue and Harper’s Bazaar turn cartwheels trying to figure out new media, in January the hyper-wired Ms. Massenet, 48, is expected to oversee the counterintuitive introduction of Porter (also pronounced the American way): a magazine to be sold on newsstands. “It’s a big beast,” said its editor, Lucy Yeomans, formerly of Harper’s Bazaar UK, promising “lots of journalism” and 40 to 50 pages of features.
就在包括《魅力》，《Vogue》以及《Harper’s Bazaar》在内的时尚出版业大费周章地探索新媒体时，深谙互联网行业运作的马斯内却反其道而行之。她策划牵头了一份名叫《波特》（Porter，同样是美式发音）杂志的推出，这份刊物将在2014年一月份在报摊贩售。“我们的杂志很有分量，” 《波特》的主编露西·尤曼斯(Lucy Yeomans)说。尤曼斯是英国《Harper’s Bazaar》的前主编，她介绍说《波特》会有“很多采访内容”，并有40到50页之多的特写稿件。
Imagine, in other words, Linda Dresner and Frieda Loehmann, both Brooks Brothers; Fern Mallis; and, yes, Anna Wintour rolled into one compact personage and you get some idea of Ms. Massenet’s tentacular reach.
想象一下美国老牌高档时装品牌布克兄弟(Brooks Brothers)的琳达·德莱斯纳(Linda Dresner)和芙丽达·雷曼(Frieda Loehmann)；曾经担任美国时装设计师协会执行董事的福恩·麦利斯(Fern Mallis)；对了，还有美国《Vogue》杂志主编安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)。把这些人揉成一个人，你就对马斯内女士影响力的触须伸得到底有多远有个大概了解了。
“Here you have a woman who really created something that didn’t exist before,” said Roopal Patel, a fashion consultant who formerly worked for one of the company’s competitors, Moda Operandi, fondly recalling Net-a-Porter’s unexpectedly rapid delivery of a one-shouldered red Acne dress for a wedding she had to attend in Anguilla soon after Hurricane Sandy. “She really is a visionary, and not just about online shopping. She is investing in fashion and designers of the future.”
“这个女人实实在在地创造了此前并不存在的东西，”时装业咨询师鲁珀尔·帕特尔(Roopal Patel)说。她此前曾在Net-a-Porter的竞争对手之一Moda Operandi工作。她兴致勃勃地回忆起自己在Net-a-Porter的购物经历：在桑迪飓风之后，她需要出席在安圭拉举行的一场婚礼，在这里订购了一件单肩的红色Acne礼服，送货的快捷出乎她的意料。“她的确具有超前的眼光，不单在网上购物方面。她在投资于下一代的时装和设计师。”
But inevitably Ms. Massenet’s ever-expanding brief raises the question of whether she is still minding the store.
但是，马斯内女士的职责不断扩大，这不可避免地让人怀疑她是否能继续专注管理网上商店。
“It’s no longer just a mom-and-pop shop,” said Ms. Patel, understating the case. The Net-a-Porter group employs almost 3,000 people who work at sleek offices in London, New York, Hong Kong and Shanghai as well as less glamorous fulfillment centers in the outskirts of the first three cities, where expensive items are shrouded in plastic, plucked by robotic arms and rolled unceremoniously in bins down conveyor belts before landing at wrapping stations to be boxed and beribboned by harried-looking humans.
“它已经不再是家庭经营的小店了，”帕特尔女士说。她认为上述担忧并无必要。如今，Net-a-Porter集团共有近3000名员工，在伦敦、纽约、香港和上海都有装修精致的办公室，在前三个城市的郊外也都建立了华美的体验中心。在这里，那些昂贵的衣物被包装在塑料袋内，由机械臂装箱，并由传送带运到包装站，进一步由忙碌的工人们扎上丝带，精致包装。
Porter was originally supposed to come out in September, the biggest month for fashion magazines. But “they wanted The Netbook to be first to market,” Ms. Yeomans said, referring to a “social shopping” iPad app. (Ms. Patel shrugged about the delay. “January seems like an ideal time,” she said. “It’s not midseason.”) In October, Women’s Wear Daily reported on its front page that Net-a-Porter was for sale, prompting denials from both Richemont and Yoox, another competitor said to be interested in acquiring it.
《波特》杂志本来计划在时尚杂志每年的高峰时段9月份上市，但“他们希望那个平面电脑的东西先上市，”尤曼斯女士说，她指的是一个“社交购物的iPad应用程序。”（帕特尔女士对杂志的推迟并不太在意：“1月份看来是个好时候，”她说。“1月不是旺季。”）2013年10月，《女装日报》(Women’s Wear Daily)网站报道说，Net-a-Porter有意出售，引来历峰集团和意大利时装网购店Yoox一致否认：传言说后者有意收购。
Despite such chatter, Ms. Massenet consistently projects a calm that is not just preternatural, to use a favorite adjective of celebrity magazines, but perhaps supernatural as well. “I see ghosts,” she said in June, sitting in the lobby of the St. Pancras Renaissance hotel during Men’s Fashion Week in London. Befitting her position as hometown ambassador as well as walking advertisement for her websites, she was wearing Frame Denim jeans, a black Temperley blouse and a dramatic jacket by Peter Pilotto wreathed in feathers (the studded shoes, though, were Valentino).
尽管此类传言迭出，马斯内女士始终表现平静的姿态，不但显得“异常自然”（这是一个时装杂志常用的形容词）、甚至可以说是“超自然”。2013年6月，在伦敦男装周期间，她坐在圣潘克拉斯万丽酒店大堂接受采访时说：“我能看见幽灵。”她的着装非常符合英国时装业及Net-a-Porter网店代言人的身份：Frame Denim牛仔裤，黑色Temperley外衣，里面是一件富有戏剧化的点缀着羽毛的Peter Pilotto上衣。（但是，她那双打着金属尖钉的皮鞋却是华伦天奴的）。
“My father always had people around the house who were famous psychics,” Ms. Massenet said, “and people were always crossing rooms to tell me things” — among them, she said, that her purpose in life was to be a leader.
“我的父亲总是请些有名的通灵师来家里做客，”她说，“总是有（幽灵）穿过墙壁来告诉我事情”—— 其中之一就是，她的人生目标就是成为领袖人物。
Christened Natalie Rooney, she was an only child. Her mother, Barbara Jones, was a model who had worked for Chanel (“a hot English chick,” Ms. Massenet said) whom her father, Robert Rooney, picked up at the Café de Flore; he was a dashing correspondent for United Press International based in Madrid. “He told me stories about visiting Franco and also dancing on tables with Ava Gardner,” his daughter recalled. The family lived in Paris for a while. “To me, America was Disneyland and ice-cream milkshakes and a lot of television channels,” said Ms. Massenet, who maintains an indeterminate Continental accent.
马斯内女士本名娜塔莉·鲁尼(Natalie Rooney)，是位独生女。她的母亲芭芭拉· 琼斯(Barbara Jones)是位模特（“性感的英国女郎，”马斯内女士说），曾为香奈儿工作。她的父亲罗伯特·鲁尼(Robert Rooney)则是位英俊潇洒的合众国际社记者，常驻马德里；两人最初在花神咖啡馆相识。“他曾给我讲述拜访佛朗哥和与爱娃·嘉丁纳(Ava Gardner)一起在桌面上跳舞的故事。”一家人曾在巴黎生活过一段时间。“对我来说，美国就是迪士尼乐园、冰淇淋奶昔和很多电视频道。”马斯内女士说。她仍旧保留着一种难以判断的欧洲大陆口音。
Her parents split, and she went to live with her father in Los Angeles, where she longed for social conformity, coveting Ditto jeans in a rainbow of colors and plastic shoes. “Contrary to popular belief, I’m not always trying to stand out,” Ms. Massenet said. One summer, she went to visit her mother in France and came back with J. Taverniti sweatshirts, “these cool new things that no one else had,” she said. The power was intoxicating. “I remember people going: ‘What is that? What’s going on here?’ And I’d be like, ‘You’ll laugh now, but in six months you’ll all have it.’ ”
她的父母离异后，她随父亲搬到洛杉矶。她渴望融入美国文化，喜欢七彩的Ditto牛仔裤和塑料鞋子。“跟别人的想象不同，我并不总是希望与众不同。”某个夏天，她去巴黎探望母亲，回来时穿着J. Taverniti套头衫。“这些别人没有的新奇物件，”她说，那种力量令人心醉。“我记得别人说‘这是什么，这是怎么回事？’而我则说：‘你现在会取笑它，但在六个月后，每个人都会穿上这些东西。’”
To St. Bernard’s high school prom, she wore a custom-made cocktail-length frock when the other girls were in off-the-rack ball gowns. A fan of “The Great Gatsby” (“I like the American dream part of it,” Ms. Massenet said), she wanted to attend Princeton, having a vision of herself crossing the quad in tweeds and Shetland wool. But she enrolled instead at the University of California, Los Angeles, joining Delta Gamma sorority, which she credits with helping her create a woman-friendly work environment. “Lovely songs,” she said fondly. “Quite ambitious girls.”
在圣博纳高中的毕业舞会上，她穿了一件定制的半正式鸡尾酒会长裙，而其他女孩们则都穿着商店买来的舞会装束。她自称是《了不起的盖茨比》(The Great Gatsby)拥趸（“我喜欢其中美国梦那部分，”她说），她希望去普林斯顿上大学，似乎能看到自己身着标志性的粗花呢外套和设德兰羊毛衣走过“四角俱乐部”的样子。但她最终来到加州大学洛杉矶分校，加入了Delta Gamma姐妹会，她称赞这里对自己后来建立对女性友好的工作环境大有帮助。“美妙的歌曲，”她满怀感情地回忆道，“雄心勃勃的女孩子们。”
Her first job, though, was at GHQ, a small men’s clothing store at the Beverly Center in Los Angeles. She gave a male colleague rides to work in her yellow Honda Civic, where they would listen to cassette recordings of songs he had written. “He was like, ‘I’m going to be a star,’ and I was like: ‘That’s great! People have dreams!’ ” Ms. Massenet said dryly. He was Lenny Kravitz.
但是，她毕业后的第一份工作却是在GHQ，一家位于洛杉矶比弗利中心的小型男装店。她时常让一位男同事搭乘自己的黄色的本田思域轿车，他们在车里会听他自己创作的歌曲的磁带。“他说：‘我将来会成为明星！’，而我则会说：‘好极了，每个人都有自己的梦想！’”她不动声色地回忆说。这位男同事就是蓝尼·克拉维茨（Lenny Kravitz，美国著名音乐人——译注）。
This was not her last brush with fame in the making. During a year spent modeling in Tokyo, she met the pop singer Bryan Adams, who she said is now a good friend, and Elvis Costello. She met the director John Hughes while working somewhat narcoleptically as a receptionist at Universal Studios. And at the Italian magazine Moda, she assisted an up-and-coming photographer, Mario Testino. “He’d call and say, ‘Natalie, I need a pink 1950s convertible, a skateboarder, three young actresses, a surfer, a white poodle and a white horse, this afternoon in Topanga Canyon,’ ” Ms. Massenet said. “And I was like, ‘O.K., I’ll sort that out.’ ”
这也不是她唯一一次如此近距离接触明日之星。她曾在东京做了一年模特，在那里遇到了流行乐明星布莱恩·亚当斯(Bryan Adams)——她说两人现在是好朋友——还有埃尔维斯·科斯特罗（Elvis Costello,著名英国音乐人——译注）。有一顿时间，她在环球制片厂担任前台接待员，整天昏昏欲睡，就是这时，她遇到了导演约翰·休斯(John Hughes)。后来，在意大利杂志《Moda》，她又为正在出名的摄影师马里奥·泰斯蒂诺(Mario Testino)担任助理。“他会打电话给我说：‘娜塔莉，我需要一辆粉色的1950年代敞篷跑车，一个玩滑板的，三个年轻的女演员，一个冲浪的，还有一只白色的哈巴狗和一匹白马，就在今天下午，到多盘加峡谷。’”马斯内女士说，“而我则会说，‘好吧，我来搞定。’”
She moved to Women’s Wear Daily and then Tatler, where she worked with the great eccentric Isabella Blow as well as Ms. Yeomans, who said: “I thought of her as super smart, super sassy. I remember her coming into the office, she’d been shooting a celebrity in L.A. for the magazine, and had picked up this little vintage embroidered cashmere cardigan, and suddenly we all wanted embroidered cashmere cardigans.” She paused before adding, “Of course, she’d picked it up for $10 and we all paid hundreds of pounds.”
她跳槽去了《女装日报》，后来又去了《Tatler》杂志，在那里，她与富于怪癖的传奇时尚编辑伊莎贝拉·布罗(Isebella Blow)和尤曼斯女士共事。尤曼斯女士说，“我们对她的印象就是绝顶聪明而又超级时尚。我记得，有一天她在为杂志拍摄一位洛杉矶名人后来到办公室，带来了一件老式的绣花羊绒小毛衣，忽然间我们每个人都想穿绣花羊绒毛衣了。”她顿了一下说，“当然，她是花了10美元买下来，然后用几百英镑卖给我们。”
In 1997, Natalie wed Arnaud Massenet, an investment banker whom she had met at a carnival in Notting Hill; the marriage lasted 15 years (Ms. Massenet did not want to discuss it) and produced two daughters, who also are hyper-wired: Isabella, 14, and Ava, almost 8. “We have to keep 18,000 chargers in the house,” Ms. Massenet said. Though the luxury market has hardly been shy about branding babies and toddlers, she has not yet introduced a Net-a-Potty. “I don’t have time to deliver on it right now, but I do think there’s space to do something for the preteens, especially since they’re so connected,” she said.
1997年，娜塔莉与投资银行家阿诺·马斯内(Arnaud Massenet)结婚。两人此前在伦敦诺丁山的一场狂欢节上相遇。这场婚姻持续了15年（马斯内女士不愿谈起此事），生了两个女儿：14岁的伊莎贝拉和8岁的艾娃，她们也一样离不开电子产品。“我们家里有18000个充电器，”马斯内女士说。尽管奢侈品市场从未讳言做婴幼儿的生意，但马斯内女士尚未推出“Net-a-Potty”这样的幼儿品牌。“我现在没有时间投入这里，但我的确认为儿童市场有开发空间，尤其是他们都如此热衷于社交网络，”她说。
It’s not all point and click chez Massenet: Tamara Mellon, a founder of Jimmy Choo and an early investor in Ms. Massenet’s site who now sells her designs there, described high-spirited barbecues with their children and “huge blown-up swans in the pool” in the Hamptons. “We’ll hang out on a Sunday afternoon and have lunch and literally be in sweatpants and not worry about it,” she said, though “honestly there was no guarantee she would take my product. I have to tell you I was a little nervous. If she didn’t like it — oh, my God.”
鼠标点击可不是马斯内宅邸内唯一的活动。周仰杰(Jimmy Choo)品牌创始人之一塔玛拉·梅隆(Tamara Mellon)也是Net-a-Porter的早期投资人之一，如今也在这个网站上售卖自己的品牌。她描述马斯内夫妇在纽约长岛汉普顿的豪宅里与孩子们兴高采烈地办烧烤，“游泳池里是巨大的充气天鹅。”“我们会在周日下午聚会，吃午餐，穿着运动短裤也不用担心，”梅隆女士说，“但说实话，她并未保证会接受我的产品（在网站上出售）。我要告诉你，我会感到紧张。如果她不喜欢——天啊。”
Indeed, despite a mild, accessible manner and a prolific presence on Instagram (where she, inevitably, goes by the handle nataporter), Ms. Massenet’s influence is such that, like the more remote Ms. Wintour, her mere presence produces genuflection from designers.
的确，尽管马斯内女士在Instagram上面有个态度温和、平易近人的个人主页（她自然而然地用了“nataporter”这个网名—— Natalie 和Net-a-Porter的结合）她在时尚界的影响力不容小视。与更加孤傲的温图尔女士一样，她一出现，时装设计师们几乎要用屈膝礼来表达尊崇之意。
This was evident backstage at the Alexander McQueen men’s show in London, where she complimented Sarah Burton on the collection and asked about her baby, and at a Net-a-party the night before the Met’s Costume Institute gala last spring, attended by some talents she has consistently championed, like Vera Wang and Erdem, and others she has not.
在亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)的伦敦男装展后台，这种尊崇感体现无疑。她称赞了萨拉·伯顿(Sarah Burton)的新系列，并且问起后者的孩子。去年春天，在她于大都会博物馆时装学院年度盛典前夜举办的Net-a-party晚会上，她请来了自己一贯推崇的时尚设计界明星，包括王薇薇(Vera Wang)和艾尔丹姆(Erdem)，却没请其他人。
“This is my friend Chris Benz,” said one guest, bringing over the young, pink-haired designer to shake hands. And, reverently: “This is Natalie Massenet!”
“这是我的朋友克里斯·本茨(Chris Benz)，”一位客人介绍了这位年轻的粉色头发设计师，让两人握手，并且颇为敬重地介绍说，“这位就是娜塔莉·马斯内。”
Later, Mr. Benz declined to discuss his hostess, pointing out that his line has not been carried on Net-a-Porter in some time.
后来，本茨先生拒绝评论晚会女主人，仅仅指出Net-a-Porter网站已经有一段时间没有出售他设计的系列时装了。
“We don’t necessarily drop designers,” Ms. Massenet said with diplomacy. “We will pass on a season. If the collections aren’t good, then we don’t put them on the site. We tend to buy a lot, so we can move the needle on certain things, which is an enormous responsibility.”
“我们一般不会完全放弃某位设计师，”马斯内女士颇为委婉地说,“我们可能会对他们某个时装季的作品敬谢不敏。如果这个系列不够好，我们就不会放到网站上。我们购买量很大，所以可能会对某些指标产生影响。这是个巨大的责任。”
This was the morning of the gala, and she was in a conference room in her New York offices, mulling where to get a pedicure for that evening, when she would be welcomed by Ms. Wintour, who could be seen as her imminent competitor, though Ms. Massenet denied this. “We think it’s a continuation of our service,” she said of the forthcoming magazine. “It will be entirely shoppable, ads will be shoppable — we’re going to try and create something completely new there.”
这是在时装学院年度盛典的当天早上，她是在自己纽约办公室的会议室里，考虑着要到哪里修剪指甲，因为当晚她要与温图尔女士会面。有人把温图尔女士看做她最直接的竞争对手，但她表示否认。“我们认为这是我们服务的延伸，”她如此描述自己即将推出的《波特》杂志。“杂志上所有的内容都可以购买，广告也可以购买——我们要试着创造一个前所未有的全新模式。”
Obviously it will be no Godey’s Lady’s Book, and yet. ...
很显然，这不会是《高迪女士月刊》（Godey’s Lady’s Book ，19世纪中期在美国流行的一本女性杂志——译注），但是……
“I know it sounds crazy,” Ms. Massenet said. “It’s not for the fainthearted, but we’re a multimedia company, and in the same way that you have to have a Facebook page and an Instagram account and be on mobile and have a website, you also need to be in print.”
“我知道这听起来很疯狂，”马斯内女士说，“心理脆弱的人承受不起。但我们是个多媒体公司，你需要一个Facebook页面，一个Instagram账号，需要网站和移动终端，同样道理你也需要纸媒。”
As Porter is promised to be, the figure of Natalie Massenet was also entirely shoppable, in a Saint Laurent white shirt and jacket, jeans and — life by stiletto — glittery high-heeled shoes, again Valentino.
正如《波特》承诺的那样，娜塔莉·马斯内全身上下的装束也都可以在Net-a-Porter网站上购买。她穿着圣洛朗的白色衬衫、上衣和牛仔裤，以及她标志性的亮闪闪的高跟鞋，同样是华伦天奴的。
“Kanye, who I don’t know, was in the hotel this morning, and I walked by trying to be discreet, give him and Kim some space, and they stopped me,” Ms. Massenet said with wonderment. “They’re like, ‘We want to take an Instagram picture of your shoes.’ And I was like, ‘I know where you can get those.’ ”
“我不认识肯依（著名歌手、音乐制作人Kanye West——译注），我今早在酒店看到他，本想低调走过去，给他和金一点空间（社交名媛金·卡戴珊Kim Kadashian是肯依·韦斯特Kanye West的未婚妻——译注），但他们拦住了我，”她兴奋地说，“他们说，‘我们要给你的鞋子拍张照片放到Instagram上面。’而我说，‘我知道你能在哪里买到这双鞋。’”