“Confounding.” “Amusing.” An “attention magnet.” A “trusty weapon.”
“混乱”。“有趣”。一块“吸引注意力的磁石”。一件“可靠的武器”。
President Trump’s Twitter feed has received lots of coverage in The New York Times, earning quite a few colorful descriptors along the way.
《纽约时报》对特朗普总统的推文进行了大量报道，期间得到了种种评价。
And rightfully so: Mr. Trump has used Twitter to celebrate American heroes, to praise friends and allies, and to promulgate policy agendas. He has also used Twitter to assail American businesses (Boeing, Lockheed Martin and Nordstrom, among others) and to criticize political opponents and the judiciary.
这是应当应分的，因为特朗普正利用Twitter来称颂美国的英雄，表扬朋友和盟友，并颁布政治议程。他还利用Twitter来攻击美国的企业（波音[Boeing]、洛克希德·马丁[Lockheed Martin]、诺德斯特龙[Nordstrom]等等），并批评政敌和司法机构。
Most recently, in a series of tweets posted early Saturday morning, Mr. Trump claimed, without offering any evidence, that President Barack Obama tapped his phones at Trump Tower in the month before the election. Those claims led to front-page stories on Sunday and today.
最近一次，特朗普在周六凌晨发布的一系列推文中声称，大选日前的一个月里，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统监听了他在特朗普大厦接打的电话，但却没有给出任何证据。这些说法在周日和今天登上了头版。
So for Times journalists tasked with covering the president, his Twitter feed, which offers an often unmediated glimpse into his frustrations, his whims and even his television-watching schedule, demands a special kind of attention.
目前，负责报道总统及其推文的时报记者需要特别留心才行。那些推文常常让我们得以颇为直接地窥视他的挫败感、他的心血来潮乃至观看电视节目的时间表。
“I have an alert for Trump’s tweets, so my iPhone beeps dependably early in the morning as soon as he hits Twitter,” Mark Landler, a White House correspondent, said in an email. “It’s actually become a substitute for my morning alarm.”
“我针对特朗普的推设置了提醒，所以每次他一大早上推，我的iPhone就会响，很可靠，”驻白宫记者马克·兰德勒(Mark Landler)在一封邮件中表示。“它实际上已经成了起床闹钟的替代品。”
The level of Mr. Landler’s attention varies, though, depending on whether he’s on duty. “If I am, I follow the tweets closely and consult with editors about whether,” as is often the case, “I need to knock out a quick story.”
不过，兰德勒的留心程度会因他是否当班而有所变化。“如果当班，我会密切关注他的推文，并和编辑商量我是否需要快速写出一篇文章”——常常都是需要的。
“On other days, I read them more casually — the background music of my life,” he added.
“在其他日子里，我会较为随意地读一读——那是我生活中的背景音乐，”他接着说。
What does it mean to be “on duty”? Before the Trump administration, one member of the Washington bureau was assigned to be available each day, Julie Hirschfeld Davis, another White House correspondent, said in a recent podcast.
“当班”是什么意思？另一位驻白宫记者朱莉·赫希菲尔德·戴维斯(Julie Hirschfeld Davis)最近在播客节目中说，特朗普政府上台前，华盛顿分社每天都会有一个人被安排待命。
But things changed when Mr. Trump took office.
但特朗普就任时，情况发生了变化。
“We very quickly figured out during the transition to the Trump administration that we were going to need two people,” Ms. Davis explained. “If the president decides to tweet something that’s newsworthy at 9 p.m., then you can’t be asleep.”
“我们在特朗普政府上台前的过渡期内就很快意识到，我们需要两个人，”戴维斯解释道。“如果总统决定在晚上9点发布具有新闻价值的推文，那你就别想着睡觉了。”
Like Mr. Landler, Ms. Davis sets alerts for Mr. Trump’s tweets. Their arrival is accompanied by a distinctive chirp — although she plans to change the tone to something “a little more invasive.”
像兰德勒一样，戴维斯也针对特朗普的推设置了提醒。提示音是一种独特的唧唧声——不过她打算改成某种“更具侵扰性”的声音。
“We’ve gotten to know his patterns,” Ms. Davis said. “He gets up at 5 and will read the newspapers and watch the morning shows, in particular Fox News and MSNBC.” And then comes the first chirp. “That’s prime tweeting time.”
“我们已经摸清了他的路数，”戴维斯说。“他5点起床，读报纸，看早间节目，特别是福克斯新闻(Fox News)和MSNBC的节目。”随后当天的第一声提示音便会响起。“那是发推的高峰时间。”
Amy Chozick, who covered Hillary Clinton’s campaign and is now on leave writing a book, has a different perspective.
报道过希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选、目前正休假写书的阿米·丘奇克(Amy Chozick)，则有不同的视角。
During the campaign, she received alerts any time Mr. Trump or Mrs. Clinton (or their top campaign aides) tweeted. “I also took my phone everywhere to check Twitter constantly, in a yoga class, in the bathroom, by my bed in the middle of the night,” she said in an email.
选举期间，每当特朗普或克林顿（或他们的高级竞选助手）发推时，她都会收到提醒。“为了便于经常查看Twitter上的内容，我还随时随地把手机带在身边，上瑜伽课要带，去卫生间要带，半夜也要放在床边，”她在一封电子邮件中表示。
On book leave, though, Ms. Chozick has tried to wean herself off social media. When she sits down to write in the morning, she leaves her phone in another room, returning to it only after three or four hours. “It’s basically like rewarding a small child with peanut M&Ms,” she said.
不过，休假写书期间，丘奇克一直竭力戒掉社交媒体。早上坐下来写作时，她会把手机放在另一个房间里，三四个小时之后才重新拿起来看看。“基本像是用花生味的M&M奖励小孩，”她说。
But the strategy doesn’t always work.
但这种办法并非总能管用。
“When I struggle to get words on the page, the pull of Twitter and Trump’s feed, in particular, is almost impossible to resist,” she said.
“当我爬格子的时候，Twitter的吸引力，尤其是特朗普的推文的吸引力，几乎无法抗拒，”她说。
Peter Baker, the chief White House correspondent, acknowledged that he, too, pays close attention to Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed (also with alerts), although he emphasized that Times journalists aren’t scrambling to write articles every time a new tweet pops up.
驻白宫首席记者彼得·贝克(Peter Baker)承认，他也密切关注着特朗普的推文（也设置了提醒），不过他强调，并不是一有新推冒出来，时报记者就会匆忙写稿。
“Not every tweet is news — we evaluate them the same way we would a presidential quote at a news conference or a White House event,” Mr. Baker said in an email. The same journalistic standards — judgments on newsworthiness, veracity and potential repercussions — apply to coverage of Mr. Trump’s tweets as they do to his messages conveyed via other mediums.
“并非每条推都是新闻——我们会评估它们，像评估总统在新闻发布会上或白宫活动中说的话一样，”贝克在一封电子邮件中表示。同样的新闻标准——对新闻价值、真实性和潜在影响的判断——既适用于对特朗普的推文的报道，也适用于对他通过其他媒介传递的讯息的报道。
“But obviously,” Mr. Baker added, “the more provocative ones tend to make news.”
“但显然，”贝克补充道，“挑衅意味较浓的推文往往会成为新闻。