Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into news, features and opinion at The New York Times.
“时报内情”(Times Insider)专栏为读者呈现《纽约时报》新闻、专题报道以及评论的幕后故事。
“You cannot go nuts if it turns out she tripped.”
“你可不能情绪太激动，假如她其实是被绊倒了呢。”
That’s Dean Baquet, The Times’s executive editor, on how he responded to the first email he received from the editor Ian Fisher saying Hillary Clinton had just collapsed while making an early exit from this year’s 9/11 commemoration. Mr. Baquet happened to be in Cambridge, Mass., at a Nieman Fellowship event at Harvard University.
这是时报主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)对来自编辑伊恩·费希尔(Ian Fisher)的第一封邮件的反应。那封邮件称，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)刚刚在提前离开今年的9·11纪念活动时晕倒了。巴奎恰好在马萨诸塞州的坎布里奇，出席尼曼奖学金(Nieman Fellowship)在哈佛大学举办的一场活动。
In the age of Twitter, with social media rushing to judgment at lightning speed, it’s the sort of call he has to make several times a day on any given day: “We have a responsibility to analyze, too,” but “because of the resources we have, our greater responsibility is to actually find out what happened.”
在Twitter时代，社交媒体会以闪电般的速度争相给出论断，而这便是他每天都要做出好几次的那种决定：“我们也有分析的责任，”不过，“因为我们掌握的资源，我们更大的责任是确切地弄清楚发生了什么事情。”
Mr. Baquet explained this logic to Jim Rutenberg, The Times’s media columnist, in front of an audience of Times Insiders.
在“时报内情”用户组成的观众面前，巴奎向时报的媒体专栏作者吉姆·鲁滕贝格(Jim Rutenberg)解释这个逻辑。
The pair also discussed this year’s particularly fast-paced, high-decibel presidential election cycle; Mr. Baquet’s eagerness to publish Donald Trump’s tax returns; and “a golden age of journalism” (don’t miss it, it’s now!).
两人讨论的话题还包括今年节奏飞快、喧嚣至极的总统竞选，巴奎对公布唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的纳税申报表的迫切心情，以及“新闻的黄金时代”（不要搞错了，就是现在！）。
The conversation continued apace, covering everything from race and gender — Mr. Baquet is the first black executive editor of The Times; we may be on the brink of electing our first female president — to the future of The Times itself.
谈话迅速推进，涵盖了方方面面，从种族和性别——巴奎是时报的第一任黑人主编；我们或许会选出首位女性总统——到时报自身的未来。
What will the future New York Times look like? More video, more graphics and “a way of telling stories that is unimaginably different” (with print still a vital part of the mix).
《纽约时报》未来会是什么样子？会有更多的视频，更多的图表，会呈现“另一种讲故事的方式，区别之大，难以想象”（印刷版仍将是其中重要的组成部分）。
“Here’s what’s funny,” he quipped: “The two most sustaining ways to read journalism now ... are print, which is going to outlast the desktop, and the phone.”
“有意思的是，”他俏皮地说：“现在最持久的两种看新闻的方式……都是印刷品，它持续的时间会超过台式机和手机阅读。”
Listen to the podcast to catch the full conversation.
想要听取完整谈话，请收听相应的播客节目。