Based on a 1994 Hollywood romance of the same title with Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr., Zhang Hao’s “Only You” covers similar but not identical bases: Fang Yuan (Tang Wei), a Beijing veterinarian, has twice been informed by fortunetellers that she would marry a man named Song Kunming. Engaged to a dentist, she intercepts a phone call from her fiancé’s former classmate — a certain Song Kunming. Accompanied by her levelheaded friend Li Xiaotang (Su Yan), she impulsively flies to Italy to find him. But instead she meets Feng Dali (Liao Fan), an expatriate buyer and restorer of antiquities who impersonates the elusive Kunming until the ruse is uncovered and he must win over Yuan as himself.
张皓的《命中注定》（英文名Only You）是根据1994年由玛丽莎·托梅(Marisa Tomei)和小罗伯特·唐尼(Robert Downey Jr.)主演的同名好莱坞爱情电影翻拍的，它与原作颇为相似，但也不是一模一样：方圆（汤唯饰）是一个北京兽医，算命的两次预言她会嫁给一个名叫宋昆明的男人。后来她和一个牙医订了婚，却接听到未婚夫老同学打来的电话，此人正好叫宋昆明。方圆在理智的好友李晓棠（苏岩饰）的陪伴下，冲动地坐飞机到意大利去寻找宋昆明。结果却遇见了冯大力（廖凡饰），他是个侨居国外的买手，也修复古董，他一直假扮这个难找的宋昆明，直到最后诡计被戳穿，他得凭自己的力量来赢得方圆的心了。
We know where the story is going, and getting there is agreeable enough, with sometimes contrived badinage between the principals and the cinematographer Shu Chou’s postcard shots of Milan, Florence and the countryside. (Far less appealing is the caricaturing of Italians: A hotel clerk says, “Sorry, but for me all Chinese look the same”; aggressive soccer fans accost Yuan.)
我们知道故事情节的发展，这个结果已经足够令人愉快，其间点缀着主角之间有时颇不自然的玩笑，以及摄影师周书豪镜头下明信片般的米兰、佛罗伦萨与意大利乡间风光（不过片中被讽刺的意大利人就没那么美妙了，一个酒店服务生说：“不好意思，我觉得中国人长得都差不多”；还有好斗的足球球迷和方圆搭讪）。 
It helps Dali’s cause that he is fluent in Italian, mentions Picasso and “The Taming of the Shrew,” rents a charming villa and tears up in recalling a mentor. But he is underserved by Mr. Liao’s performance, which is more muted than charismatic. But “Only You” is served very well by Ms. Tang (a star of Ang Lee’s “Lust, Caution”). Whether playing elated, sorrowful, coy or petulant, she consistently provides the spark the movie could use more of.
大力说一口流利的意大利语，这对他很有帮助，他提到毕加索和《驯悍记》(The Taming of the Shrew)，还租来一栋漂亮的别墅，回忆自己的一位导师时痛哭失声。但是廖凡的表演不够到位，显得过于温和，不太有个人魅力。但是《命中注定》因为有了汤唯（曾主演李安的《色戒》）而增色不少。无论是兴奋、悲伤、腼腆抑或暴躁，她都是片中的亮点，这样的亮点真应该再多一些。