There are an estimated 750 million street dogs, village dogs and dogs sometimes called strays in the world. And while they may not have owners, that doesn’t mean they keep their distance from people.
全世界据估计有7.5亿只游荡在街头和乡间的狗，包括一些走失的流浪狗。它们也许没有主人，但不等于就不能和人拉近距离。
We asked Times readers on many continents – both English and Spanishspeakers – to share some of their experiences with such dogs. Some were rescued. Some appeared like apparitions and were never seen again. All made a strong impression on the people who shared their stories, and on us, too.
我们邀请世界各地的时报读者——说英语或西班牙语——分享他们和这些小狗接触的经历。有些狗获救了。有的则如幽灵般出现而后又消失，再也不见。它们都给故事的讲述者，以及我们，留下了深刻的印象。
India
印度
One of the Neighbors
其中一位邻居
As in any Indian town, street dogs are prominent residents of my hometown, too.
和在印度所有的城镇一样，游荡街头的狗在我的家乡也是有头有脸的居民。
My younger brother once brought home two stray puppies, whom we named Jimmy and Tommy. Tommy died young from rabies, but Jimmy survived. He had a shiny black coat and an adorable disposition.
有一次，我弟弟带了两只小流浪狗回家，我们为他们取名叫吉米和汤米。汤米因为狂犬病夭折了，而吉米活了下来。他有一身黑亮的毛，性情也很可爱。
Every day when I came home from college, he would run to me with his tail wagging and jump all over me in joy. It was unadulterated love. He became a part of our life and a part of our neighbors’ families as well. He would go to one neighbor for lunch, take a nap on another’s porch and have dinner at his own house (i.e., ours). He lived a quasi-street-dog life.
每天我从学校回来，他都会摇着尾巴迎上来，兴高采烈地往我身上扑。那是种毫无保留的爱。他成为我们的生活的一部分，对我们的邻居也是如此。他会去一家吃个午饭，到另一家门口打个盹，回自己家（也就是我们家）吃晚饭。过着一种准流浪狗的生活。
Sadly, a few years later, he died from rabies as well, leaving us heartbroken. These stray puppies are growing up to be the future Tommies and Jimmies. – SOMA CHOWDHURY
不幸的是，几年前他也因狂犬病去世了，我们很伤心。这些流浪狗正在长大，成为未来的汤米和吉米。——索玛·乔杜里(SOMA CHOWDHURY)
Tajikistan
塔吉克斯坦
Absolutely No Rescues
实在无法救助
Before we arrived I was adamant. No matter how many sad and abandoned animals we saw, there was absolutely no way I was going to rescue any of them. I’m probably the biggest animal lover you’ll ever meet, so that realization was hard for me. But we had three young, healthy pets. and I couldn’t endanger them in any way.
到这里之前，我很坚强。我们无论看到多少可怜的、遭到抛弃的动物，我都实在没办法救助它们。我可能是你见过的最爱动物的人了，所以，意识到这一点对我来讲很艰难。但是我们有三只年轻健康的宠物，我无论如何都不会让它们遭遇危险。
But then Soya wandered into the right yard at the right time.
但是，索亚在对的时间进入了对的院子。
It was raining. And dark. And cold. We showed up at a friend’s house, and there she was. A tiny black puppy out in the rain.
当时正在下雨，天很暗，又很冷。我们去了朋友的家里，而她就在那里出现——一只在雨里的小黑狗。
She had followed people into the yard and sat there shivering and looking miserable.
她一直跟着人进入了院子里，然后就坐在那儿瑟瑟发抖，看起来好可怜。
It really didn’t take much persuasion. By the end of the night she was in our house. By the end of the weekend she had a name, Soya, which is Tajik for “shadow.” She’s our permanent street dog. – KRISTEN CROCKER
并不需要费很多口舌说服谁。那天晚上，她就在我们家了。周末，她有了一个名字，索亚，在塔吉克语里是“阴影”的意思。她是我们永远的流浪狗。——克里斯汀·克罗克(KRISTEN CROCKER)
Venezuela
委内瑞拉
The Happiest Dog in the World
世上最快乐的狗
I met the happiest dog in the world. He lives on the beach and belongs to no one.
我遇到了世上最快乐的狗。他生活在海滩上，没有主人。
My girlfriend and I named him Lobito (“little wolf”), but eventually we learned that the locals of La Guaira call him Guasa. He might have German shepherd blood, given his intelligence and looks. The visitors of the beach and the “tolderos” (stand vendors) give him leftovers, and every weekend we bring him kibble.
我和女朋友把他叫做洛比托（小狼的意思），但我们最后了解到拉瓜伊拉当地人叫他瓜莎。考虑到他的聪明劲儿和样子，他大概是有德国牧羊犬的血统。海滩的游客和小摊贩们会把剩下的食物给他吃，每周末我们都会给他狗粮。
Since we met him, he made friends with our Dalmatian, Blondie, and every time we reach his home – a plot of land by the sea that he shares with a toldero named Gabriel, and his hens – he runs to us and kisses us. Unlike other solitary and stray dogs, Guasa or Lobito looks healthy and happy. Once we thought about taking him with us to the city, but taking the sea out of him may well be like letting the air out of him. – DANIEL GARRIDO
从我们见到他起，他就和我们的斑点狗布隆迪成为了朋友。每次我们到他家，也就是海边和小摊贩加布里埃尔以及母鸡共享的一块地时，他就会向我们跑过来，并亲吻我们。不像其他孤独的流浪狗，瓜莎，或者叫洛比托，看起来很健康很快乐。我们曾经想过把他带回城市，但是把他从海边带走可能就像没了空气一样吧。——丹尼尔·加里多(DANIEL GARRIDO)
Venezuela
委内瑞拉
A Lover of the Arts
艺术爱好者
This is a very cultured dog. He likes the arts. He lives in the National Gallery of Art in Caracas, Venezuela, and the museum guards take care of him. You can see him by the door, greeting you. He’s very calm, social, and everyone loves him. As curious as it seems, almost all of the museums in Caracas have their own stray dogs. – SANDRA SANTINI
这是一只很有文化的小狗。他钟情于艺术，住在委内瑞拉首都加拉加斯的国家美术馆，里面的保安会照顾他。你不时会看到他跑到门口，那是在问候你。他性格很冷静，也很会和人打交道，大家都很喜欢它。这看起来一点都不奇怪，几乎加拉加斯所有的博物馆都会有自己的流浪狗。——桑德拉·桑蒂妮(SANDRA SANTINI)
India
印度
The World’s Most Spoiled Street Dog
世上最受宠的流浪狗
I used to live in India and had a neighborhood reputation for looking out for street dogs. One day a friend found a two-week-old pup who had been abandoned by its mother and was badly infested with maggots. I took the pup, thinking she might not make it through the night and intending to leave her with a vet in the morning. The vet ended up giving her a good prognosis, so I decided I would foster her until I found her a family. Weeks turned into months, and I hadn’t looked very hard for a new home. It’s now almost three years later. My street pup received official Indian state travel papers and made the trek from Mumbai to Chicago with me. She’s the world’s most spoiled street dog. I even have a tattoo portrait of her. – LAUREN DEAN
我曾经在印度居住，左邻右里都知道我喜欢照看流浪狗。有一次，一位朋友把一只只有两周大的被遗弃的小狗带来给我，因为她身上被蛆感染了。我接过这只小狗，觉得她可能不会熬过当晚，于是早上就打算把她交给兽医。兽医给了她很妥善的治疗，所以我决定自己来抚养直到给她找到归宿。年月流逝，这只小狗在我这个“新家”过得还不赖。接近三年后，这只流浪小狗还拿到了印度官方授予的旅游护照，和我一起长途跋涉去旅行，足迹从孟买到芝加哥。她已经成为世上最受宠爱的流浪狗了。我的身上还以她的样子做了的纹身。——劳伦·丁(LAUREN DEAN)
Turkey
土耳其
A City That Cares for Dogs
一座关爱小狗的城市
We have many street dogs. About 20 live in our neighborhood park, and another five by the taxi stand, where drivers built shelters for them.
这里有很多流浪狗。在我们家旁边的公园里，大概住着20只，旁边的士站还有5只，在那里，司机们给他们专门搭了小窝。
Municipalities routinely vaccinate, fix and tag them, and place recycling stands around the city where dog food is dispensed in exchange for empty bottles. Neighbors generally take care of them – there is even a Facebook group where we can check with one another to find out the latest on our neighborhood dogs.
市政府会定期给这些小狗接种疫苗，检查他们的身体状况并给他们戴上标签，而且城市里回收垃圾的地方还能用空瓶子来换狗粮。我的邻居们经常照看这些小狗，甚至还专门成立了Facebook小组，方便我们互相发布关于小狗的最新消息。
One best friend is Sofi. She follows us as we go for several hours of walking around the city, patiently waiting for us if we stop for lunch or coffee. If we run into her on our way to work, she walks us to the metro station.
我们最好的朋友叫索菲，她在我们数小时的散步途中会跟在后面，如果我们停下来用午餐或者咖啡，她也会很有耐心地在一旁等待。有时候我们在上班途中碰巧遇到她，她会陪我们一起走到地铁站。
We don’t feed her – it’s all about affection and company. – CHIAKI YAMAMOTO
我们并没有喂她，她纯粹是出于感情，把我们当朋友。——山本千秋（音，CHIAKI YAMAMOTO）