KABUL, Afghanistan — Farkhunda had one chance to escape the mob that wanted to kill her. Two Afghan police officers pulled her onto the roof of a low shed, above the angry crowd.
阿富汗喀布尔——法尔昆达(Farkhunda)有过一次可以逃离那些想杀死她的暴民的机会。两名阿富汗警察把她拉到一个低矮棚屋的屋顶上，离开下面愤怒的人群。
But then the enraged men below her picked up poles and planks of wood, and hit at her until she lost her grip and tumbled down.
但是后来，下方愤怒的男人捡起杆子和木板打她，直到她失去平衡，摔了下去。
Her face bloodied, she struggled to stand. Holding her hands to her hair, she looked horrified to find that her attackers had yanked off her black hijab as she fell. The mob closed in, kicking and jumping on her slight frame.
她挣扎着站起来，脸上留着血。她发现在自己摔下去的时候，围攻者拽掉了她的黑头巾，她露出惊骇的神色，用手捂住头发。暴民们围上来，用脚踢她，在她瘦弱的身上踩跳。
The tormented final hours of Farkhunda Malikzada, a 27-year-old aspiring student of Islam who was accused of burning a Quran in a Muslim shrine, shocked Afghans across the country. That is because many of her killers filmed one another beating her and posted clips of her broken body on social media. Hundreds of other men watched, holding their phones aloft to try to get a glimpse of the violence, but never making a move to intervene. Those standing by included several police officers.
27岁的法尔昆达·马利克扎达(Farkhunda Malikzada)遭受几小时折磨而死的事情震惊了整个阿富汗。她是一名很有抱负的伊斯兰教学生，被控在一处穆斯林的神圣场所焚烧《古兰经》。很多凶手互相拍摄殴打她的视频，还把她残破身体的视频发到社交媒体上。现场还有数百名男子围观，他们高举着手机试图一窥暴行的发生，完全没有进行干涉。旁观者中还有几名警察。
Unlike so many abuses against Afghan women that unfold in private, this killing in March prompted a national outcry. For Farkhunda had not burned a Quran. Instead, an investigation found, she had confronted men who were themselves dishonoring the shrine by trafficking in amulets and, more clandestinely, Viagra and condoms.
与私下披露出来的阿富汗妇女遭受虐待的很多事件不同，3月份的这次虐杀引发举国抗议。因为法尔昆达并没有焚烧《古兰经》。实际上，调查发现，她之前是在对抗那些玷污清真寺的男人，他们非法交易护身符，更偷偷摸摸地贩卖伟哥和保险套。
At first, the trial and convictions that followed seemed a victory in the long struggle to give Afghan women their due in a court of law. But a deeper look suggests otherwise. The fortuneteller who several investigators believe set the events in motion was found not guilty on appeal. The shrine’s custodian, who concocted the false charge of Quran burning and incited the mob, had his death sentence commuted. Police officers who failed to send help and others who stood by received slaps on the wrist, at most. Some attackers identifiable in the videos avoided capture altogether. Afghan lawyers and human rights advocates agree that most of the accused did not receive fair trials. Farkhunda’s family, fearing reprisals and worried that the killers would not be held accountable, fled the country.
一开始，随后进行的审判和定罪让人以为在法庭上争取公平对待阿富汗妇女的长期斗争终于取得胜利。但是，仔细研究就会发现并非如此。那名被几位调查者认为引发这些事的占卜者被判无罪。捏造焚烧《古兰经》谣言、煽动暴民的清真寺看门人免于死刑。没有伸出援手的警察和其他围观者仅受到轻微惩罚。视频中可辨认的一些攻击者都为捕获。阿富汗的律师和人权倡导者也认为，大部分被告没有受到公平审判。法尔昆达的家人害怕遭到报复，担心凶手不会被追究责任，所以逃离了这个国家。
Farkhunda’s death and the legal system’s response call into question more than a decade of Western efforts in Afghanistan to instill a rule of law and improve the status of women. The United States alone has spent more than $1 billion to train lawyers and judges and to improve legal protections for women; European countries have provided tens of millions more.
法尔昆达之死以及阿富汗司法系统的反应，让人们对十多年来西方国家在阿富汗灌输法治观念、提高妇女地位的努力其成效产生质疑。单是美国就花费逾10亿美元帮这里培养律师和法官，加强对妇女的法律保护；欧洲国家也在这方面花费了数千万美元。
But like so many other Western attempts to remake Afghanistan, the efforts have foundered, according to Afghan and Western lawyers and officials. Afghan society has resisted more than 150 years of such endeavors by outsiders, from the British to the Russians to the Americans. This remains a country where ties of kinship and clan trump justice, and where the money brought by the West has made corruption into a way of life. The rule-of-law programs were often designed in ignorance of Afghan legal norms, international and Afghan lawyers say. And Western efforts to lift women’s legal status provoked fierce resentment from powerful religious figures and many ordinary Afghans.
但是，据阿富汗和西方国家的律师和官员们称，与西方国家改造阿富汗的其他尝试一样，这些努力也失败了。150多年来，阿富汗社会一直抵制外界的这些努力——从英国人、俄国人到美国人。在这个国家，亲戚关系和宗族关系依然高于司法，西方的资助只是让腐败成为了一种生活方式。阿富汗国内外的律师称，法治项目的设计往往没有顾及阿富汗的法律规范。西方国家提高妇女法律地位的努力引起强大的宗教人物和很多普通阿富汗人的强烈愤恨。
Yet Afghan women most need the legal system to defend them: They are largely powerless without the support of male family members, and it is usually family members who abuse them.
但是，阿富汗妇女是最需要法律体制来保护她们的：她们若没有男性家庭成员的支持，基本上无能为力，而且虐待她们的往往是家庭成员。
“Where is the justice?” asked Mujibullah Malikzada, Farkhunda’s elder brother, as he sat in a sparsely furnished apartment in Tajikistan. “In my Islamic country, a girl was disrespectfully, dishonorably lynched and burned, and what has happened? We have left our home. They never caught all the people. What are we to do?”
“正义何在？”法尔昆达的哥哥穆吉巴拉·马利克扎达(Mujibullah Malikzada)坐在塔吉克斯坦一个仅有简单家具的公寓里问道，“在我的伊斯兰国家，一个女孩被无礼、卑鄙地处以私刑并烧死，这到底是怎么回事？我们离开了自己的家园。他们一直没有抓住所有的凶手。我们该怎么办？”
As a last resort, Farkhunda’s family has appealed to the Afghan Supreme Court, which has wide power to impose new sentences or order a new trial. The decision is pending.
法尔昆达的家人最后迫不得已，上诉到阿富汗最高法院(Afghan Supreme Court)，那里有重新宣判或下令重新审判的权力。目前最高法院尚未做出决定。
“If she gets justice, all women in Afghanistan who were harmed or killed or abused get justice,” said Leena Alam, an Afghan television actress who found herself joining hundreds of women at Farkhunda’s funeral, defying tradition by carrying the coffin. “If she doesn’t, then all these years of the international community being here, all the support they gave, all the money, this whole war, means nothing. It all went to waste.”
“如果她能得到法律的公正对待，就等于所有遭到伤害、杀害或虐待的阿富汗妇女得到了公正对待，”阿富汗女电视演员莉娜·阿拉姆(Leena Alam)说。她和数百名妇女参加了法尔昆达的葬礼，她们反抗传统，为她抬棺。“如果她得不到公正对待，那么国际社会这些年在这里的存在、所寄予的支持和资助以及整场战争都毫无意义。都是白费。”
The Killing
遇害过程
Farkhunda first visited the Shah-Do Shamshira shrine — named for a foreign warrior who is said to have helped bring Islam to Afghanistan — four weeks before her death.
去世前四周，法尔昆达首次访问双剑王清真寺(Shah-Do Shamshira)。这座清真寺因一位外国勇士得名，据说他协助将伊斯兰教传入阿富汗。
It was a Wednesday, women’s day at the shrine, when men are not allowed. The women commiserate about their lives. They visit the fortuneteller to buy amulets to help them get pregnant, find a husband or have male children. Known as tawiz, the amulets usually consist of writings on a small piece of paper that a woman can pin to her body or keep in a pocket.
那天是周三，是那座清真寺的女性日，男性不许入内。女人们相互倾诉自己的生活。她们向占卜者购买护身符，求孕、求姻缘或求子。这种护身符名叫tawiz，通常是在一张小纸片上写上字，女人可以将它别在身上或放在口袋里。
Farkhunda was appalled at the way the women’s superstitions were being exploited, her brother Mujibullah recalled. She confronted the custodian, Zainuddin, and the fortuneteller, Mohammad Omran, saying: “You are abusing the women. You are charging them money for something that is not Islamic, that is not religious.”
法尔昆达的哥哥穆吉巴拉回忆说，她看到女人们的迷信被这样利用，感到震惊。她对看门人扎因丁(Zainuddin)和占卜者穆罕默德·奥姆兰(Mohammad Omran)说：“你们在伤害女性。你们用一些非伊斯兰教的、不虔诚的东西在挣她们的钱。”
As the atmosphere at the shrine became tense, Mujibullah said, “The custodian said to Farkhunda: ‘Who the hell are you? Who are you to say these things? Get lost.’ ”
穆吉巴拉说，清真寺里的情势变得紧张，“看门人对法尔昆达说：‘你以为你是谁？你管得着吗？赶紧滚开。’”
The Malikzadas are an educated family. Farkhunda’s father, Mohammad Nader Malikzada, 72, worked for nearly 40 years as the lead engineer for Afghanistan’s Public Health Ministry, keeping its medical technology, such as it was, running. Mujibullah had a job at the Finance Ministry, and a second brother was an engineer.
马利克扎达一家人都受过良好教育。法尔昆达72岁的父亲穆罕默德·纳德尔·马利克扎达(Mohammad Nader Malikzada)曾担任阿富汗公共健康部(Public Health Ministry)的首席工程师近40年，保持该国的医疗技术向前发展。穆吉巴拉在财政部(Finance Ministry)供职，她的另一个哥哥是工程师。
Farkhunda, one of eight sisters, was academically inclined. The girls were either graduates of or students at universities or teachers’ colleges. Several were still single in their 20s, unusual for Afghan women. The family did not patronize places like the Shah-Do Shamshira shrine, which was known for attracting the local riffraff as well as pilgrims.
法尔昆达在家里有七个姐妹，她非常好学。这些女孩子不是在念大学或师范，就是已经毕业。其中有几个20多岁了，依然单身，这在阿富汗女性中不太常见。这家人不常去双剑王清真寺这样的地方，该清真寺以吸引不三不四的人和朝圣者而闻名。
Farkhunda turned out to be right: There was something amiss at the shrine. Investigators from the police and the National Directorate of Security, the Afghan intelligence service, learned later that the fortuneteller, almost certainly with the assistance of the custodian, was trafficking in Viagra and condoms, said Shahla Farid, a member of the investigating committee set up by President Ashraf Ghani after the murder. Viagra is popular and easily available in Afghanistan. Some men see it as an aphrodisiac; others as a remedy if they are nervous on their wedding night.
结果证明，法尔昆达是对的：这座清真寺就是有问题。据阿什拉夫·加尼总统(Ashraf Ghani)在此案发生后成立的调查委员会的一名成员沙赫拉·法里德(Shahla Farid)说，警察局和阿富汗情报机构国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)的调查者后来得知，那名占卜者非法出售伟哥和保险套，而且几乎肯定是得到了那名看门人的协助。伟哥在阿富汗很流行，也很容易买到。有些男人把它用作春药，也有些男人在新婚之夜感到紧张时会用到它。
The investigators also found pregnancy test strips and sweet-smelling body wash in the fortuneteller’s bathroom, suggesting that women might have used it. Ms. Farid and police investigators said it was possible that the fortuneteller moonlighted as a pimp.
调查者还在这名占卜者的浴室里发现了验孕试纸和气味芳香的沐浴露，表明可能有女人用过这里。法里德和警察局的调查者称，这名占卜者有可能兼职拉皮条。
The last thing the fortuneteller wanted was a young woman, fired with religious faith, disturbing his means of making a living.
这个占卜者最不喜欢的就是一个满怀宗教信仰的年轻女子妨碍他的谋生之道。
On March 19, the last day of her life, Farkhunda returned to the shrine. After lecturing the women about the uselessness of the amulets, she gathered up some used ones and may have set them on fire in a trash can, said Ms. Farid, who is also a law professor at Kabul University.
3月19日，在法尔昆达生命的最后一天，她再次来到这座清真寺。法里德说，法尔昆达在教导那些女人护身符没用之后，把一些用过的护身符收集起来，可能还在垃圾桶里把它们烧了。法里德也是喀布尔大学(Kabul University)的法律教授。
“The custodian, Zainuddin, was illiterate, and he took the burnt papers and added to them some old pages of a burnt Quran, and that’s what he showed people outside the mosque as proof that she had burned the Quran,” Ms. Farid said.
“看门人扎因丁是不识字的，他收集了一些烧糊的纸，又往里面加入了一些烧过的旧《古兰经》，这就是他向清真寺外的人出示的所谓她烧毁《古兰经》的证据，”法里德女士说。
That is a charge almost guaranteed to bring a violent reaction in Afghanistan, where even the rumor of a Quran burning can bring hundreds into the streets, calling for blood.
这项指责几乎肯定会在阿富汗引起暴力的反应，在这里，就连有《古兰经》被烧的谣言都可能引起数百人走上街头呼吁让肇事者流血。
Muhammad Naeem, who sells pigeon feed across the road from the shrine, said he had heard the custodian calling out to people walking by: “A woman burned the Quran. I don’t know if this one is sick or mentally disturbed, but what kind of Muslim are you? Go and defend your Quran.”
在清真寺对面的街道上卖鸽子饲料的穆罕默德·纳伊姆(Muhammad Naeem)说，他听见看门人对走过街头的人们喊叫：“一个女人烧了《古兰经》。我不知道她是病了还是疯了，但你们是什么样的穆斯林？来保卫你们的《古兰经》吧。”
It was about 4 o’clock, time for the afternoon prayer. The streets were full, and a crowd quickly gathered. Cellphone videos captured the first moments of the argument.
当时是下午四点左右，正是该做下午祷告的时间。整条街挤满了人，人群很快聚集起来。手机视频捕捉到争吵的第一幕。
“Why did you burn it?” a man shouted.
“你为什么烧它？”一个男人叫喊。
As Farkhunda insisted she had not, another man shouted, “The Americans sent you.”
法尔昆达说她没有烧，另一个男人叫喊，“是美国人派你来的。”
She responded, “Which Americans?”
她答道，“什么美国人？”
He said, “Stop talking or I will punch your mouth.”
他说，“闭嘴，不然我就打你嘴巴。”
Mr. Naeem said that a police officer had tried to lead Farkhunda away, but that, mindful of Afghan custom as well as strict Islamic teachings, she had asked the officer to bring a policewoman. The crowd broke through. In cellphone recordings, more than one person can be heard shouting, “Kill her!”
纳伊姆先生说，一个警察试着把法尔昆达带走，但是法尔昆达想起了阿富汗的习俗与严格的伊斯兰教义，她要求警察找个女警察来。人群冲上前来。从手机视频里可以看到，不止一个人喊道：“杀了她！”
“Then she fell down on the ground and the people tried to beat her and pummel her, and the police would try to help her up, and then the people from the other side would push her down,” Mr. Naeem recalled. “They were like kids playing with a sack of flour on the floor.”
“然后她倒在地上，人们冲上去打她，警察想帮她站起来，然后另一边的人又把她推倒，”纳伊姆回忆。“他们就像一群孩子在玩地上的面粉袋。”
In the videos, Farkhunda seems at first to be screaming in pain from the kicks, but then her body convulses under the blows, and soon, she stops moving at all. Even when the mob pulls her into the street and gets a car to run over her, and she is dragged 300 feet, the police stand by.
从录像里可以看到，法尔昆达先是因为挨踢而痛苦地叫着，然后她的身体因为殴打而抽搐，很快她就一动不动了。暴徒们把她拖到街上，弄来一辆车子碾过她的身体，她被拖了近百米，警察只是站在一边。
By then, she was little more than a clothed mass of blood and bones. Yet still more people came to beat her. One of the most fervent was a young man, Mohammad Yaqoub, who worked at an eyeglasses shop. He heard the crowd as Farkhunda was dragged behind the car and rushed out, eager to join.
那时候，她已经血肉模糊。然而更多的人涌上来打她。最凶残的是一个年轻男人，名叫穆罕默德·雅格布(Mohammad Yaqoub)，他在一家眼镜店工作。法尔昆达被车拖的时候，他听到了人群的声音，于是兴奋地加入进来。
Eight months later, neatly dressed with a small beard and mustache, Mr. Yaqoub hardly looked like someone capable of violence. Yet in the videos, he is so caught up in the moment that he has a terrifying ferocity.
八个月后，衣着整洁、蓄着小髭与山羊胡的雅格布先生看上去完全不像是一个能做出暴力行为的人。然而他那些极度凶残的行为都记录在视频里。
“People were saying, ‘If someone doesn’t hit her, he is an infidel.’ That was when I got emotional and hit her twice,” he said in an interview at Pul-i-Charkhi prison, just east of Kabul. “My third punch hit the road, and my hand got injured.”
“大家说，‘谁不打她就是异教徒。’我就是在那时候激动起来，打了她两次，”他在喀布尔以东的普勒恰尔希(Pul-i-Charkhi)监狱接受采访时说。“我第三拳打到了路面，手受伤了。”
After going back to his shop and patching up his hand, he heard the men outside still shouting and said he felt drawn back. The men had dragged Farkhunda’s body to the riverbank, and Mr. Yaqoub looked for heavy rocks to drop on her. One was so large, he could barely lift it, he said.
他回到自己店里草草地把手上的伤口处理好，听见外面的男人们还在叫喊，于是又被吸引回去。男人们拖着法尔昆达的身体来到河边，雅格布找来大石块砸她。他说，其中一块石头太大了，他差点举不动。
Mr. Yaqoub was hardly an illiterate day laborer. He had completed 11th grade and, when interviewed in prison, said he was 18. He explained his fury by saying, “The Quran is like our honor: It is our personal honor and the honor of the prophet.”
雅格布并非不识字的临时工。他读完了11年级。在狱中接受采访时，他说自己18岁。他这样解释自己的愤怒，“《古兰经》是我们的荣誉：是我们个人的荣誉，也是先知的荣誉。”
As Mr. Yaqoub milled with the crowd, other men set Farkhunda on fire, using their own scarves as fuel because her clothes were so soaked with blood, they would not light.
雅格布和人群一起动手打法尔昆达的同时，一些男人放火烧她，他们拿自己的头巾来引火，因为她的衣服浸透了鲜血，点不着。
In the middle of the mayhem, someone found Farkhunda’s phone and called her father. He, his wife and Farkhunda’s brother Mujibullah drove to the police station. They had no word of her fate until Gen. Abdul Rahman Rahimi, Kabul’s chief of police, broke the news.
暴行中，有人发现了法尔昆达的手机，于是给她的父亲打电话。他和妻子，以及法尔昆达的兄弟穆吉巴拉(Mujibullah)开车来到警察局。他们并不知道她已经死了，直到喀布尔警察局长阿卜杜勒·拉赫曼·拉希米将军(Gen. Abdul Rahman Rahimi)告知这一消息。
“It is proved that she burned the Quran,” he told Farkhunda’s stunned parents, who knew she was deeply religious and planned to study theology at Kabul University. General Rahimi also informed them that he had told an Afghan television station that Farkhunda was mentally ill, in an attempt to calm an angry public.
“她烧了《古兰经》，”他对法尔昆达目瞪口呆的父母说，两人知道她极为虔诚，正打算在喀布尔大学学习神学。拉希米将军还告诉他们，为了安抚愤怒的公众，自己告诉阿富汗电视台说法尔昆达有精神病。
It was true that Farkhunda had been treated for mental illness. Its severity is unclear, but details given to the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission and other investigators indicated that she had gone through several difficult periods — including one in which she mostly stayed in bed and said she feared praying because she might make a mistake, according to her mother. She was put on medication, which helped for a time, her mother said, according to the Human Rights Commission report.
法尔昆达的确曾经接受精神疾病治疗。其严重程度尚不清楚，但阿富汗独立人权委员会得到的详细资料表明，她已经度过了最严重的几个时期——在其中一个阶段，根据她母亲的说法，她只能整天呆在床上，说她害怕祈祷，因为有可能出错。根据人权委员会的报告，她母亲说，她在接受药物治疗，这起了一段时间的作用。
General Rahimi told Farkhunda’s father that the police had failed to protect her and advised him to leave Kabul for his own safety. Months later, her brother Mujibullah recalled his despair.
拉希米将军告诉法尔昆达的父亲，警方没能保护她，还建议他为了自身的安全离开喀布尔。几个月后，法尔昆达的兄弟穆吉巴拉回忆起自己当时的绝望。
“I felt the sky had touched the earth and I was between the two, being shattered into pieces,” he said. “I thought I am in some other world. Someone is telling me that a girl who loved the Quran, who would die for the Quran, had been killed, murdered, for burning the Quran.
“我觉得天都塌了，我被埋在中间，成了碎片，”他说。“我觉得我身处另一个世界。有人告诉我，一个深爱着《古兰经》，愿意为《古兰经》而死的女孩因为焚烧《古兰经》被杀死了。
“I couldn’t believe it could be our Farkhunda.”
“我无法相信那是我们的法尔昆达。”
Within two days of the killing, the Ministry of Hajj and Religious Affairs announced that Farkhunda had been innocent. Soon, she was transformed from a person into a cause. Video clips of her death were broadcast on Afghan television, prompting shame among many citizens.
这起事件发生不到两天，朝觐和宗教事务部(Ministry of Hajj and Religious Affairs)宣布，法尔昆达是无辜的。很快，她就成为一场运动的代名词。她被害的视频剪辑在阿富汗的电视上广为传播，在很多公民心中唤起羞耻之情。
Swelling numbers of young women, joined by some young men, gathered spontaneously at the shrine and held candlelight vigils. They formed a “Justice for Farkhunda” organization. They marched, demonstrated and demanded that her killers be brought to trial.
愈来愈多的年轻女性自发地聚集在那座清真寺前举行烛光守夜，很多年轻男性也参加进来。他们成立了“为法尔昆达伸张正义”组织。他们游行、示威，主张杀害她的人应当接受审判。
Most extraordinary, women rebelled against the custom of staying away from funerals, and hundreds gathered to carry and escort her coffin.
最不寻常的是，很多女人反抗女人不能参加葬礼的习俗，数百名女性聚集起来，抬起并护送她的灵柩。
Ms. Alam, the Afghan actress, said she had felt compelled to go to the cemetery on the day of Farkhunda’s burial.
阿富汗女演员阿拉姆女士说，她觉得自己有义务在法尔昆达的葬礼那天到墓地去。
“Her body was brought to her grave by women and buried by women,” she said. “We took all our shawls and scarves and knotted them together and held them on each side, and then lowered the coffin into the grave. And I remember I had a little cut from the wood from the coffin, and I didn’t want that cut to heal.”
“她的遗体由女人们抬到墓穴，也由女人们安葬，”她说。“我们摘下披肩和头巾，把它们系在一起，围在墓穴周围，然后把棺木放进坟茔。我记得，我被棺材上的木头割破了手，我不希望这个伤口愈合。”