“Night at the Museum 3: Secret of the Tomb” signifies closing time for the franchise in which exhibits come alive, and Ben Stiller has to deal with them. The director, Shawn Levy, and the new writers, David Guion and Michael Handelman, throw together enough gags and one-liners to ensure a diverting and, here and there, rather funny journey for the museum stalwart Larry and his menagerie of Teddy Roosevelt, a miniature Roman general, a Neanderthal, a capuchin monkey and others.
《博物馆奇妙夜3》(Night at the Museum 3: Secret of the Tomb)是这个商业系列的收尾之作。在这个系列里，博物馆的展品们纷纷活了过来，本·斯蒂勒(Ben Stiller)饰演的角色得去应付它们。导演肖恩·利维(Shawn Levy)以及新编剧大卫·盖恩(David Guion)和迈克尔·汉德尔曼(Michael Handelman)堆出大量的玩笑和俏皮话，保证娱乐观众，让博物馆守卫拉里和他的小伙伴们——泰迪·罗斯福(Teddy Roosevelt)、一个小型罗马将军、一个穴居原始人、一只僧帽猴以及其他种种——不时带领观众做一场有趣的旅行。
Now director of nighttime operations, Larry (Mr. Stiller, near left) must visit a pharaoh (Ben Kingsley!) in the British Museum to learn why Roosevelt and friends went bonkers during a dinner show at the American Museum of Natural History. The problems center on an enchanted Egyptian tablet tied to the animation of the exhibits. The trip introduces new blood to the comedy, chiefly a revived Sir Lancelot (a sharp Dan Stevens, far left) and a gabby British nightwatchwoman (Rebel Wilson), and Larry’s travails with his college-averse son yield lessons about independence.
拉里（斯蒂勒饰）是各种夜间行动的指挥，片中他必须去拜访大英博物馆里的一位法老（本·金斯利[Ben Kingsley]饰！），了解为什么罗斯福和他的朋友们在美国自然历史博物馆举办的晚宴秀上发了疯。问题集中在一份被施了魔法的埃及碑文上，它与展品变活有着密切关系。这次旅行为这部喜剧注入了新鲜血液，首先是兰斯洛特爵士(Sir Lancelot)也复活了（这个角色由锋锐的丹·斯蒂文斯[Dan Stevens]饰演，左），还有一个饶舌的英国女守夜人（雷蓓尔·威尔森[Rebel Wilson]饰演），拉里和不愿上大学的儿子之间的斗争则带来了有关独立自主这个话题的思考。
The premise shares something with durable silent-era slapstick yarns, even if the material underserves Mr. Stiller, Ricky Gervais, Steve Coogan and the other comedians. (As Roosevelt, Robin Williams serves more as a benevolent fatherly presence.) But the writers turn out amusing riffs on how historical figures might react to the present, nice bits of business (like a tumble into an Escher painting) and a passable Passover joke.
影片的引子和默片时代的闹剧故事有点像，尽管斯蒂勒、瑞奇·热维斯(Roclu Gervais)、史蒂夫·库根(Steve Coogan)等喜剧演员的表演令剧情黯然失色（饰演罗斯福的罗宾·威廉姆斯[Robin Williams]在剧中显得更像个和善的父亲形象）。但是编剧们用“历史人物对当今时代会有什么样的反应”这个题材编出了精彩的段子，是漂亮的滑稽小品（有点像一头栽进埃舍尔的油画）和可以接受的逾越节玩笑。
It’s a chronically underachieving movie, but relatively amusing in its quaint wish fulfillment.
虽然这部影片不怎么样，但它满足了人们古怪逗趣的期盼，因此还是挺有趣的。