A structure that just missed the New York City landmarks preservation law of 1965 was the 1905 Times Tower at 42nd Street at Broadway. Reminiscent of the Florentine campanile by Giotto, it was an expansive gesture by The New York Times, then moving uptown from Park Row. The newspaper left the building around 10 years later, but the tower survived for 60 years before being stripped to its skin. By the time the landmarks law was passed, even the skeleton had disappeared from view.
有一栋建筑，恰恰错过了1965年颁布的《纽约市地标保护法》(New York City landmarks preservation law)，那就是建成于1905年、位于百老汇(Broadway)和第42街交汇处的时报大厦(Times Tower)。它的外观容易令人联想起佛罗伦萨的乔托钟楼(Giotto's Campanile)，是《纽约时报》的一个大手笔。当时，报社正从公园路(Park Row)搬到上城区去。大约十年后，报社迁离了大厦，但那栋建筑又挺立了60年，直到最终被拆得只剩空壳。到《地标保护法》通过时，这栋大厦连骨架也荡然无存了。
At one time most of the newspaper industry was clustered along Park Row, where The Times built its own skyscraper at No. 41 Park Row in 1889. But when the Ochs family bought the paper in the 1890s, they were open to new ideas, especially in 1900, when construction began on New York’s first subway, its route turning at what was then called Longacre Square. In 1903 The Times’s architects, Eidlitz & McKenzie, filed plans for a 24-story tower on the trapezoidal plot at the south end of the square, bounded by 42nd and 43rd Streets, Broadway and Seventh Avenue.
有一段时间，大多数的报社都集中在公园路上。时报也于1889年在公园路41号修建了自己的摩天大厦。但是，当奥克斯(Ochs)家族在19世纪90年代收购了报社时，他们乐于接受新的思想观念。尤其是在1900年，纽约正开始修建第一条地铁，其线路经过了当时的朗埃克广场(Longacre Square)。1903年，时报雇用的设计公司爱德利兹&麦肯齐建筑设计事务所(Eidlitz & McKenzie)就提出一个计划，要在朗埃克广场南端的一块梯形地块上，修建一栋24层大楼。这块地的边界是第42街、第43街、百老汇和第七大道。
While construction was underway, The Times asked the city to rename the location Times Square, a proposal to which there were objections. One came from The New York Tribune, which in 1904 praised “our excellent neighbor” but also said that “the established names of streets and places ought seldom to be changed.”
在施工过程中，时报要求市政府将朗埃克广场更名为时报广场（Times Square，又译“时代广场”——译注）。这项提议遭到了一些反对。反对者之一就是《纽约论坛报》(The New York Tribune)，该报在1904年时称赞了“我们优秀的邻居”，但表示“既定的街道名和地名应该少作变动。”
The American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society chimed in, calling Longacre “dignified, reputable and euphonious” and denouncing the “pernicious” practice of replacing long-established names with those of commercial endeavors.
美国风景及历史古迹保护学会(American Scenic and Historic Preservation Society)也随声附和，宣称“朗埃克”这个地名“高贵、体面而又悦耳”，谴责以商业诉求为目的去改变约定俗成的地名，宣称这是一种“有害的”行为。
However, Times Square it became and remains.
不过呢，时报广场这个名称还是定了下来，并沿用至今。
Architects’ and Builders’ Magazine suggested that The Times “should recognize the demands of artistic taste and utilize their properties so as to promote municipal improvements and add to the beauty of the city,” a century later rather a quaint notion. The architects created a two-part marble tower stepping down to the new Times Square. It was surrounded by colonnettes, and almost purely vertical in effect. The taller 24-story section of the tower had a passing resemblance to Giotto’s campanile in Florence, but old photographs show much early French Renaissance detailing, with window moldings and late Gothic ornament.
《建筑师与建造商杂志》(Architects’ and Builders’ Magazine) 认为，时报“应该顺应艺术品位的要求，利用它们的房产来促进市政环境的改善，让市容更加美化”。放到一个世纪以后的今天来看，这个观点着实古怪。建造商修建了一座由两部分组成的大理石高层建筑，冲着新的时报广场，呈高矮阶梯状递减。它周身围绕有小圆柱，几乎完全垂直。较高的那部分包含24层楼，与佛罗伦萨的乔托钟楼有几分相似，但从老照片上可以看出许多法国文艺复兴早期风格的细节，包括石膏线窗套和晚期哥特式的装饰。
Montgomery Schuyler, the picky architectural critic, called it “a valuable addition to our short list of artistic skyscrapers.”
挑剔的建筑评论家蒙哥马利·斯凯勒(Montgomery Schuyler)表示，时报大厦“在我们为数不多的最具艺术性的摩天大楼当中，是个有价值的新作。”
The Times seemed eager to boom its artistic contribution, frequently maintaining that its tower was taller than the acknowledged record-holder, the 1899 Park Row Building, two blocks from the 1889 Times building. But The Times was including the four below-grade stories; the actual measurement, beginning at sidewalk level, the customary starting point, was 362 feet for the Times Tower, 380 feet for the Park Row.
时报也似乎颇为热衷于宣传其艺术贡献，经常宣称时报大厦的高度超过了当时公认的记录保持者——1899年建成的公园路大厦(Park Row Building)。这栋楼距1889年建成的原时报大楼（公园路上的那座——译注）仅有两个街区之遥。但是，时报算上了四层地下楼层的高度；而按照实测，从人们习惯的地面楼层开始算起，时报大厦的高度是362英尺（约合110米），而公园路大厦的高度则是380英尺（约合116米）。
Perched on the top of the Times Tower was a round little observatory awash in French Renaissance detailing, as cute as a candy box, although it is not certain how it was used, or whether it was open to the public. In November 1904, before the building was occupied, a system of searchlights was installed to signal which presidential candidate was victorious. The lights facing west went on — Theodore Roosevelt had won.
有一个圆形小观景台坐落在时报大厦的顶层，其上充斥着法国文艺复兴风格的装潢细节， 就像糖果盒一样可爱；只不过，我们现在已不能确定它的用途，也不知道它是否曾经对公众开放过了。1904年11月，大楼在商户入驻前安装了一个探照灯系统，用来指示赢得大选的总统候选人是哪一位。照向西面的探照灯亮着——西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Roosevelt)胜了。
Employees leapt from their desks to the windows one night in 1910 when Frank W. Goodale circled the tower in his 58-foot-long dirigible as thousands cheered below. In 1928 the horizontal electronic news ticker was introduced, and The Nassau Daily Review of Long Island reported that the multitude supporting presidential candidate Alfred E. Smith was downcast when news of the Hoover landslide flashed by: “The roars of the crowds ceased.”
1910年的一个晚上，弗兰克·W·古德尔(Frank W. Goodale)驾驶58英尺（约合18米）长的飞艇绕着大厦转了一圈，引得楼内员工纷纷离开办公桌，跑到窗前观望；还有成千上万的围观者在楼下欢呼。1928年，大厦上安装了横向的电子新闻滚动屏，据长岛《纳苏每日评论》(The Nassau Daily Review)报道，当胡佛(Hoover)以压倒性优势胜选的新闻在电子屏上滚动出现时，支持阿尔弗雷德·E·史密斯(Alfred E. Smith)的人群一下子消沉起来：“人群中的助威声戛然而止。”
In 1963, the Allied Chemical Corporation bought the tower from an investor, stripped off the detail and clad it in white Vermont marble. No one seems to have lain down in front of the bulldozers — indeed there were no bulldozers, no demonstrations, only a few letters to the editor. But a cartoon by Alan Dunn, reprinted from Architectural Record magazine by The Times in 1963, suggests more than the printed record shows. A woman is painting picket signs saying “Save the Times Tower” while a man, presumably her husband, says, “I never heard you rave about it before it was going to be modernized.”
1963年，联合化工公司(Allied Chemical Corporation)从一位投资者那里买下了这栋大厦，将其装潢细节拆除，表面饰以佛蒙特大理石。似乎没有人躺在推土机前抗议——当然，现场没有推土机，没有游行示威，只有几封信被寄给了编辑。不过，阿兰·邓恩(Alan Dunn)的一幅漫画比当时刊发的文字记录更能说明问题。1963年，时报选登了原刊于《建筑实录》(Architectural Record)杂志上的这幅漫画。画面上有一名女子正在制作抗议标牌，上面写着“拯救时报大厦”；而旁边一个像她丈夫的人说，“以前怎么没见你这么这么关心它。”