Five years ago, the fashion industry faced a reckoning over the startling lack of diversity among the models on major designer runways. Reacting to complaints that many shows and magazines included nothing but white models, Vogue, in its July 2008 issue, featured a substantial article that asked, in its headline, “Is Fashion Racist?”
5年前，时装业面临过一次清算：主要设计师秀台上的模特严重缺乏种族多样性。人们指责很多时装秀和杂志只选用白人模特，为此，《Vogue》杂志在2008年7月发表了一篇长文，标题是：“时装业真的存在种族歧视吗？”
This came shortly after Franca Sozzani, the editor of Italian Vogue, published a provocative issue using only black models and feature subjects; Bethann Hardison, a former model and agent, initiated a series of panel discussions on the subject; and Diane von Furstenberg, the president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, urged members to be more aware of diversity in casting.
在这之前不久，《Vogue》意大利版的主编弗兰卡·索扎尼(Franca Sozzani)出版了一期有争议的杂志，里面的模特和特写人物全是黑人；曾当过模特和代理人的本瑟恩·哈迪森(Bethann Hardison)发起了一系列针对这个话题的讨论；美国时装设计师协会主席黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(Diane von Furstenberg)敦促会员们在选模特的时候多考虑一下种族多样性。
And since then, almost nothing has changed.
但是从那以后，情况几乎没有任何变化。
The New York shows are as dominated by white models as they have been since the late 1990s, roughly at the end of the era of supermodels. Jezebel, a blog that has been tracking the appearance of minorities in fashion shows since the debate erupted, noted that the numbers are hardly encouraging. After a notable increase in 2009 that followed extensive news media coverage, the representation of black models has remained fairly steady until this year, when they accounted for only 6 percent of the looks shown at the last Fashion Week in February (down from 8.1 percent the previous season); 82.7 percent were worn by white models.
自20世纪90年代末超级模特时代结束之后，纽约的时装秀就一直以白人模特为主。博客Jezebel从这场争论爆发起就一直在关注少数族裔在时装秀中的亮相情况，发现情况并不乐观。因为新闻媒体的关注，黑人模特的亮相机会在2009年出现了明显增长，之后就保持稳定，一直到今年。在2月份的最近一次时装周上，由黑人模特展示的服装数量只占总数的6%（这个数字在上个时装季是8.1%）；82.7%的服装是由白人模特展示的。
In Europe, where Phoebe Philo of Céline, Raf Simons of Dior and many others have presented entire collections using no black models at all, the opportunities have been even less favorable for minorities.
在欧洲，少数族裔的机会更少。赛琳(Céline)的设计师菲比·菲洛(Phoebe Philo)、迪奥(Dior)的拉夫·西蒙斯(Raf Simons)以及很多设计师整个系列都完全不用黑人模特。
“There is something terribly wrong,” said Iman, one of the most iconic models in the world, who later created a successful cosmetics company. Her experience in the fashion scene of the 1980s and ’90s, when designers like Calvin Klein, Gianni Versace and Yves Saint Laurent routinely cast black models without question, was starkly different than that of young nonwhite models today, when the racial prejudice is all but explicitly stated. The increased appearance of Asian models over the last decade, for example, is often described specifically in terms of appealing to luxury customers in China.
“这是非常错误的，”伊曼(Iman)说。她曾是世界上最具标志性的模特之一，后来创立了一个成功的化妆品公司。她20世纪八九十年代在时装界的经历与现在年轻的非白人模特的经历明显不同。那时候，CK、范思哲和伊夫圣罗兰等品牌的设计师通常会毫不犹豫地常规选用黑人模特；而今，种族偏见近乎毫不掩饰。比如，过去十年亚洲模特亮相机会的增多通常被解释为是为了吸引中国的奢侈品顾客。
“We have a president and a first lady who are black,” Iman said. “You would think things have changed, and then you realize that they have not. In fact, things have gone backward.”
“我们的总统和第一夫人是黑人，”伊曼说，“你以为情况已经改变了，但是你发现并没有改变。实际上，还倒退了。”
The most astonishing aspect of the persistent lack of diversity — to Iman, to Ms. Hardison, to the models who apply for castings and are told, “We already have our black girl” — is that there have been no obvious repercussions for those who still see colorless runways as an acceptable form of artistic expression. Despite a history of polite and often thoughtful discussions within the industry, there are still many designers and casting agents who remain curiously blind to black models, or unmoved by the perception that fashion has a race problem in the first place.
对伊曼、哈迪森以及那些申请面试却被告知“我们已经有黑人姑娘了”的模特们来说，长期缺乏多样性最让人震惊的一点在于，那些仍然认为只有白人秀台是一种可以接受的艺术表达形式的人，居然没有遭遇任何不利后果。尽管业界曾经礼貌而深入地讨论过这个问题，但是仍然有很多设计师和试镜经纪人对黑人模特熟视无睹，或者说对服装业存在种族歧视问题完全无动于衷。
Part of that problem, Ms. Hardison said, is that “no one in power slaps these designers around.”
哈迪森说，其中一个问题是“没有一个有影响力的人物出来警醒这些设计师”。
“All I want to say is, you guys have a lot of explaining to do,” she said. “If you are going to be bold enough to do it, then please be bold enough to explain it.”
“我想说的是，你们这些人需要好好解释一下，”她说，“如果你们有胆量那样做，那也请你们有胆量解释一下。”
Beginning at Fashion Week in September, Ms. Hardison is organizing a social media campaign to bring public scrutiny to specific designers who do not use black models. By making consumers aware of the designers who do not embrace minorities on the runway, she said, “I wonder if that would make them have second thoughts about buying the shoes, the accessories and the bags.”
从9月份的时装周开始，哈迪森将在社交媒体上组织一些活动，让公众密切关注那些不用黑人模特的设计师。她说，通过让顾客意识到哪些设计师在秀台上不欢迎少数族裔，“我想看看他们在购买那些设计师的鞋子、配饰和手包时是否会改变主意。”
While her plans are still being developed, Ms. Hardison said that the seemingly indifferent responses among companies to complaints of tokenism and lookism have become too insulting and destructive to ignore. And Iman, at times speaking so passionately that her comments were unprintable, said it was time to protest “by all means necessary.”
虽然哈迪森的计划仍在筹划中，但是她说时装品牌对装点门面和容貌歧视的不满似乎无动于衷，这太无礼、太消极了，让人无法视而不见。伊曼讲话的时候有时很激愤，措辞不宜刊登。她说现在应该“以一切必要的方式”进行反抗。
“It feels to me like the times need a real hard line drawn like in the 1960s, by saying if you don’t use black models, then we boycott,” Iman said. “If you engage the social media, trust me, it will hurt them in their pockets. If you take it out there, they will feel the uproar.”
“我感觉，现在真的需要表现出强硬的立场，就像在20世纪60年代，对他们说如果你不用黑人模特，那我们就联合抵制你，”伊曼说。“如果你让社交媒体参与其中，相信我，会影响他们的荷包。如果生意受了影响，他们会感觉得到愤怒。”
Several events this year have suggested that fashion, an industry that views itself as socially progressive and reflective of change, is not much more enlightened than the cast of “Big Brother.” While some developments have been viewed as positives, others have revealed a simmering tension, with models like Jourdan Dunn and Joan Smalls complaining publicly of not getting jobs because of race, and finger-pointing among designers, casting agents and stylists over who is responsible.
今年发生的几件事表明，自认为反映社会进步和时代变迁的时装业，不比《老大哥》(Big Brother)中的选手们开化多少。虽然也出现了一些正面现象，但是也有些情况反映出越来越激化的紧张关系，卓丹·邓(Jourdan Dunn)和琼·斯莫斯(Joan Smalls)等模特公开抱怨由于种族原因而得不到工作机会，设计师、试镜经纪人和造型师们互相推卸责任。
On July 2, while attending the couture shows in Paris, Edward Enninful, a successful stylist who has worked for magazines for 25 years, posted a message on Twitter that instantly revived the debate about race and fashion, but also underscored how sensitive the subject can be for those working to make changes from inside the industry:
爱德华·艾宁弗(Edward Enninful)是有25年从业经验的成功的杂志造型师，他7月2日在参加巴黎高级定制时装秀期间在Twitter上发了一个帖子，立刻再次引起了关于种族和时装的争论。这件事还突显出，对那些努力从时装业内部做出改变的人来说，这个话题是多么敏感。
“If all my (white) counterparts are seated in the front row, why should I be expected to take 2nd row? racism? xoxo”
“如果我所有的（白人）同行都坐在第一排，那我为什么必须认为自己应该坐在第二排？种族歧视？亲亲抱抱。”
In an interview, Mr. Enninful, who is the fashion and style director at W magazine and is black, would not disclose which designer he was alluding to in the message because of the political fallout. But he said that while the matter was resolved to his satisfaction, diversity in fashion has increasingly been at issue and he was not convinced that it is improving.
艾宁弗现在是《W》杂志的时装造型总监，他是黑人。在采访中，考虑到政治后果，他不想透露那条留言暗指的是哪位设计师。但是他说，虽然那件事后来得到了满意的解决，但是时装业的种族多样化问题越来越引起争议，而且他认为情况没有得到改善。
“Change always takes time,” Mr. Enninful said. “The fashion industry needs to breed a whole different way of thinking. We need more diverse people working in all facets of the industry.”
“改变总是需要时间，”艾宁弗说，“时装界需要形成一种完全不同的思考方式。我们需要更多种族的人在时装业的各个方面工作。”
It is not only the models who need to reflect diversity, he said, it is the image makers who set the trends that the rest of the industry follows, too. “What is happening on the runways is the result of a very Eurocentric aesthetic that has taken over for the last 10 years,” he said, “and that has excluded other races.”
他说，不只是模特需要反映出种族多样性，引导潮流的是造型师和设计师，时装业的其他方面追随的是他们。“现在秀台上的审美倾向以欧洲为中心，在过去10年里这种审美一直占主导，”他说，“而且它把其他种族排除在外。”
Increasingly, the frustration with the influencers is spilling out into public view. Kyle Hagler, a senior executive manager at IMG Models, spent years promoting Ms. Smalls, who is black and Puerto Rican, before she became the top-ranked model according to Models.com. “Unfortunately, you do have people in positions of power who do not appreciate an idea of beauty outside of their own,” he said.
公众越来越多地了解一些有影响力的人物做出的让人失望的事。黑人模特斯莫斯来自波多黎各。据Models.com网站说，在她成为顶级模特之前，IMG模特公司的高级执行经理凯尔·海格勒(Kyle Hagler)花了很多年时间推荐她。“不幸的是，的确有些掌握大权的人不能欣赏其他族裔的美，”海格勒说。
In March, James Scully, a casting director whose clients include Tom Ford, Derek Lam and Stella McCartney, went public with a scathing critique of shows that did not reflect a diverse casting last season, specifically naming Dior, Saint Laurent, Louis Vuitton and Chanel.
詹姆斯·斯库利(James Scully)是一位模特试镜总监，他的客户包括汤姆·福特(Tom Ford)、林健诚(Derek Lam)和斯特拉·麦卡特尼(Stella McCartney)。3月份，他公开严厉批评上一季的时装秀在选模特的时候没有体现种族多样性，特别点名批评了迪奥、圣罗兰、LV和香奈儿。
“I feel the Dior cast is just so pointedly white that it feels deliberate,” he said in a BuzzFeed article. “I watch that show and it bothers me — I almost can’t even concentrate on the clothes because of the cast.”
“迪奥的模特全是白人，我感觉像是故意的，”他在BuzzFeed网站的一篇文章中说。“我看那场时装秀的时候，这一点让我很恼怒，几乎无法把注意力放到服装上。”
Mr. Scully said that he had since received complaints from executives who work with Dior and elsewhere, but also an enormous amount of support from strangers who commented online. “I found the response among some of my peers to be very disappointing,” he said. “But in the last 10 years, I have found the only time you get any action is when you actually do something and you call someone out.”
斯库利说，发文之后，他收到了来自迪奥和其他品牌的主管们的抱怨，但是也得到了在网上发表评论的很多陌生人的支持。“我发现我的一些同行们的反应特别令人失望，”他说。“但是在过去10年里，我发现你真的做了一些事情、点名跟人叫板的时候，有人才会行动起来。”
In July, when Mr. Simons presented his latest couture collection for Dior, the show included six black models, prompting speculation that the change came in response to Mr. Scully’s remarks. In the same week, Prada, which has long been criticized for casting very few minorities, released a fall campaign featuring Malaika Firth, the first black model to appear in its women’s advertising in nearly two decades.
7月份，西蒙斯的最近一次迪奥定制时装发布会上包括6名黑人模特，让人们猜测这个变化是对斯库利评论的回应。同一周，一向以极少选用少数族裔模特而遭到批评的普拉达发布了一个秋季广告，广告中的模特是玛莱卡·弗思(Malaika Firth)，她是近20年来出现在普拉达女装广告中的第一位黑人模特。
It would appear that the designers are beginning to pay attention to the potentially negative publicity, but representatives for both labels refused to discuss the subject or to make the designers available, as did a spokeswoman for Céline, which has not used a black model in a runway show since Ms. Philo became the designer in 2009. Not one in the 259 looks shown in eight runway shows. “I would say it’s quite odd,” Mr. Scully said. “Everyone notices, so why shouldn’t someone say something?”
设计师们似乎开始关注这些潜在的负面宣传，但是上述两个品牌的代表们都拒绝讨论这个话题，也拒绝让设计师出面评论。赛琳的发言人也是如此，该品牌从2009年菲罗(Philo)担任设计师以来从未在时装秀上用过一个黑人模特。8场时装秀的259个造型中没有一个黑人模特。“我觉得这很奇怪，”斯库利说，“每个人都注意到了，那为什么就不该有人站出来说点什么呢？” Russell Marsh, the casting director for Céline and formerly for Prada, did not respond to messages over several weeks. His agent, Beverley Streeter, said he was unavailable.
拉塞尔·马什(Russell Marsh)是赛琳的模特试镜总监，曾为普拉达工作。他几周以来没有对此做出回应。他的代理人贝弗利·斯特里特(Beverley Streeter)说他没空。
Calvin Klein, once a vastly diverse show, has frequently been faulted for its mostly white casting, including by Mr. Scully, who said the company sometimes hired one black model “to not get in trouble.”
CK虽然曾举办过一次含有多种族模特的时装秀，但是因主要选用白人模特而时常遭到指摘。斯库利就曾说过该公司有时会选用一个黑人模特，是“为了不惹麻烦”。
Francisco Costa, the women’s creative director, responded in an e-mail that the company looks for diverse faces in its casting. But, he wrote: “There are only a handful of top-level, professionally trained models of color at a particular level out there now, and they end up being booked by other fashion houses and can be seen on dozens of runways each season, which is counter to what we are looking for. We try to present a unique and interesting cast with as many exclusives as possible to create and emphasize that season’s aesthetic.”
该公司的女装创意总监弗朗西斯科·科斯塔(Francisco Costa)在电子邮件中回复说，该公司在选模特的时候着意寻找多种族面孔。不过，他写道，“现在只有那么几个顶级的、受过专业培训的、达到某种层次的其他肤色的模特，结果她们都被其他时装公司预订了，每一季在十几场时装秀上都看到她们，这跟我们追求的东西相左。我们努力展示独特而有趣的模特，尽量是专门为我们走秀的模特，以强调那一季的审美理念。”
Maida Gregori Boina, the casting director for Calvin Klein and Dior, said that Mr. Costa has pushed for more diversity, “but we don’t want to book a model because we are obliged.” The Dior casting, she said, was the result of the multicultural concept of the collection, not the criticism, and she actually wanted more minorities represented in the show.
梅达·格雷戈里·巴纳(Maida Gregori Boina)是CK和迪奥的模特试镜总监，她说科斯塔极力要求挑选多种族的模特，“但是我们不想被迫去预订某个模特。”她说迪奥上次选用黑人模特是因为那个系列的多文化理念，而不是因为那些批评，她实际上希望时装秀中有更多的少数族裔模特。
“Unfortunately, you’ve got what you’ve got in the agencies,” said Ms. Boina, who is half black. “I am conscious I have to do more. But it has to be part of a movement that includes the entire fashion industry.”
“不幸的是，经纪公司现在就是这种情况，”巴纳说。她有一半黑人血统。“我知道我应该再多做一些事情。但是整个时尚行业都得动起来才行。”
The old arguments within the industry — the designers say the agents don’t send them black models, and the agents say the designers don’t want any black models — increasingly seem insufficient when luxury fashion has become such a global business, with untold numbers of consumers watching the shows online. It now becomes noteworthy when a label like Dsquared creates advertisements using only black male models or only Asian female models.
行业内部由来已久的争论是，设计师们说模特经纪公司不给他们送来黑人模特，经纪公司则说设计师不想要黑人模特。但是奢侈时装业已经变成了一个全球性的行业，有数不清的客户在网上观看那些时装秀，所以那个争论已经变得没意义了。现在值得注意的是，像D二次方(Dsquared)这样的品牌拍广告的时候是只选用黑人男性模特或者只选用亚洲女性模特。
“There are not only white people around the world,” said Riccardo Tisci, the Givenchy designer, who has been heralded for representing a range of races, ages and genders in his marketing. Of those who cast only white models, he said: “I think that is called laziness. People sometimes think, ‘It’s easier, we’re used to it.’ ”
“世界上不只有白人，”纪梵希(Givenchy)的设计师里卡多·提西(Riccardo Tisci)说。他是在市场宣传时注重种族、年龄和性别多样性的先驱。对那些只选用白人模特的品牌，他的看法是：“我觉得他们是在偷懒。人们有时认为，‘我们习惯老样子，那样不费劲。’”
To designers who say they cast white models for aesthetic reasons, their critics would ask if that means they don’t think their clothes look good on black people.
有些设计师说他们选择白人模特是基于审美的考虑，他们的批评者会问，那意思是不是他们认为自己的衣服穿在黑人身上不好看。
This is important, said Veronica Webb, who encountered the same excuses during the years she walked the runways in the ’90s, because “this is where a lot of young women get their idea of beauty from.”
维罗妮卡·韦勃(Veronica Webb)在20世纪90年代走秀的时候碰到过同样的借口。她说，这很重要，因为“这是很多年轻女子审美观念的来源”。
“When you see someone that looks like you,” she said, “it makes women feel beautiful, and it makes women feel they belong.”
“当女人们在秀台上看到跟自己相像的人，”她说，“她会感觉自己很美丽，感觉自己是她们中的一员。”