Larry and Melissa Lax didn’t intend to build a collection of photography that would lure curious fashion editors and museum curators to their white-sided fieldstone home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
当初，拉里和梅利莎·拉克斯(Larry and Melissa Lax)并没打算专门收藏摄影作品，以吸引好奇的时尚编辑和博物馆策展人来到他们位于密歇根州布卢姆菲尔德希尔斯市的侧面为白色的石头房子里。
The couple just wanted artwork to decorate the place. But on the recommendation of their interior designer 15 years ago, they visited the Staley-Wise Gallery in SoHo, which specializes in fashion photography, and were soon hooked.
这对夫妇只是想买一些艺术品来装饰这个地方。但是15年前，在他们的室内设计师的建议下，他们参观了SoHo区专门展示时装摄影的斯特利-怀斯画廊(Staley-Wise Gallery)，很快就被迷住了。
Today their home has 30 classic fashion photos displayed throughout the main floor. The centerpiece is a long stretch of hallway — a catwalk of mostly black-and-white images of stunning women in stylish clothes taken by some of the most revered photographers of the 1940s and ’50s, including Irving Penn, Richard Avedon and Lillian Bassman. 
现在，他们家的主楼层挂着30幅经典时装摄影。最显眼的是狭长走廊两侧墙上挂着的黑白照片，照片上是穿着时髦衣服的美女。这些照片出自20世纪四五十年代最受尊敬的一些摄影师之手，包括欧文·潘(Irving Penn)、理查德·埃夫登(Richard Avedon)和莉莲·巴斯曼(Lillian Bassman)。
It turns out that the Laxes were ahead of the curve in the current, yes, fashion for fashion photography. In the last decade, it has attracted a wide audience, and many images are worth far more than the haute couture they were used to market.
结果证明，拉克斯夫妇领先了目前的时装摄影潮流。在过去十年里，时装摄影吸引了很多观众，很多照片的价值远远超出了当时它们所宣传的高级服装的价值。
“Prices are going up, up and up,” said Etheleen Staley, who, with Takouhy Wise, owns the SoHo gallery. “In the past five years, prices for the classics have easily quadrupled.”
“价格一直在涨啊涨，”SoHo区斯特利-怀斯画廊的埃思琳·斯特利(Etheleen Staley)说。她和塔库伊·怀斯(Takouhy Wise)共同拥有这家画廊。“在过去五年里，经典时装摄影作品的价格至少增长了四倍。”
Fashion photography “by its very nature is chic, and, at the moment, is very much in vogue,” said Merry Foresta, the guest curator for a new museum show, “Irving Penn: Beyond Beauty,” the first retrospective of Penn’s work in nearly 20 years, currently at the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington.
目前，华盛顿的史密森学会美国艺术博物馆(Smithsonian American Art Museum)正在举办欧文·潘的首场回顾展，回顾他近20年的作品，展览名为“欧文·潘：超越美”(Irving Penn: Beyond Beauty)。梅里·福雷斯塔(Merry Foresta)是这场展览的特邀策展人。她说，时装摄影“的本质是时尚，现在它非常流行”。
“There’s such a big nostalgia and fascination now for the period from the late ’40s into the ’60s — what I call midcentury modern fashion photographers such as Penn, Avedon, William Klein and Bassman,” she said.
“现在，人们非常怀念和迷恋40年代末至60年代的时装摄影师，我称他们为20世纪中叶现代时装摄影师，比如潘、埃夫登、威廉·克莱恩(William Klein)和巴斯曼，”她说。
The Smithsonian’s exhibition features work from all stages of Penn’s career: street scenes from the late 1930s, photographs of the American South from the early 1940s, celebrity portraits, fashion photographs, still lifes and private studio images. This is Penn “in a full retrospective mode, from beginning to end,” said Ms. Foresta, the museum’s photography curator from 1983 to 1999.
史密森博物馆的展览展示潘事业各个时期的作品：30年代末的街头景象，40年代初美国南方的照片，名人肖像，时装摄影，静物照片，以及私人工作室照片。福雷斯塔说，这是关于潘的“全面回顾展”。她从1983年至1999年担任该博物馆的摄影策展人。
In the auction and gallery world, you don’t have to look hard for evidence of fashion photography’s cachet: At the fall auction at Phillips, a Lillian Bassman photo from a 1950 test shoot of the model Margie Cato sold for $10,625, above its estimated price of $7,000 to $9,000.
在拍卖界和画廊界，你不必太费力就能找到时装摄影优良品质的证据：在菲利普斯拍卖行(Phillips)的秋季拍卖会上，莉莲·巴斯曼1950年试拍的模特玛吉·卡托(Margie Cato)的照片以1.0625万美元成交，高于7千至9千美元的估价。
A contemporary fashion image by David LaChapelle, whose work has appeared in Details, GQ, Vanity Fair and Vogue, typically starts at about $18,000 for a 20-by-24-inch image and $35,000 for a 30-by-40-inch.
大卫·拉沙佩勒(David LaChapelle)的当代时装摄影作品通常的起价大约是1.8万美元（20×24英寸）或3.5万美元（30×40英寸）。他的作品曾出现在《Details》、《GQ》、《名利场》(Vanity Fair)和《Vogue》等杂志上。
A print by Patrick Demarchelier, who has worked for Vogue and Harper’s Bazaar and has shot international advertising campaigns for designers like Dior, Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Ralph Lauren, might change hands for around $8,000 and rise to around $15,000 for a large image.
帕特里克·德马舍利耶(Patrick Demarchelier)的摄影作品一般会在8000美元左右成交，大幅作品的价格大约是1.5万美元。他曾为《Vogue》和《Harper’s Bazaar》工作，为迪奥(Dior) 、路易·威登(Louis Vuitton)、香奈儿(Chanel)和拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)等设计师拍摄国际平面广告。
“In the case of both of these photographers, however, prices can go well above $100,000 for their most popular images,” Ms. Staley said, referring to Mr. LaChapelle and Mr. Demarchelier.
“不过，这两位摄影师最受欢迎的摄影作品的价格可能远高于10万美元，”斯特利说。她指的是拉沙佩勒和德马舍利耶。
Then there are the six-figure prices regularly paid for classic works by Penn and Avedon. In April, a signed, limited-edition 1950 Irving Penn gelatin silver print, “Black and White Fashion With Handbag,” featuring the model Jean Patchett, sold at Phillips for $106,250, far above its estimate of $50,000 to $70,000.
潘和埃夫登的经典作品的价格通常会达到六位数字。今年4月，欧文·潘1950年的限量签名版明胶银盐相片《黑白时装和手袋》(Black and White Fashion With Handbag)在菲利普斯拍卖行以10.625万美元售出，远高于5万至7万美元的估价。那张照片的模特是珍妮·帕切特(Jean Patchett)。
At the Sotheby’s May sale in London, an Irving Penn selenium-toned silver print, signed and printed in September 2005, showing a Chanel feather hat designed by Philip Treacy and worn by the model Nadja Auermann, sold for $107,766, more than triple the presale high estimate of $31,350.
在5月份苏富比的伦敦拍卖会上，欧文·潘2005年9月签名冲印的硒调色银盐相片展示的是菲利普·特里西(Philip Treacy)为香奈儿设计的一顶羽毛帽子，佩戴者是模特纳迪娅·奥尔曼(Nadja Auermann)，这张照片卖出了10.7766万美元，是拍卖前3.135万美元的最高估价的三倍多。
But for decades, fashion photography was largely ignored. “There was this mind-set that fashion photography was separate because it was done for a client in a commercial world,” said Andy Grundberg, an art critic and professor at the Corcoran College of the Arts and Design, part of George Washington University. “It was thought by artists and dealers to be somehow less pure. But that has been challenged and overturned.”
但是，有数十年时间，时装摄影在很大程度上遭到忽视。“人们曾经认为，时装摄影是个单独的门类，因为它是为商界的客户创作的，”艺术评论家、乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)科克伦艺术与设计学院(Corcoran College of the Arts and Design)的教授安迪·格伦德贝里(Andy Grundberg)说，“艺术家和交易商曾经认为它不够纯粹。但是那种观念已经被质疑和推翻了。”
Today aesthetic appreciation is driving the new commerce of fashion photography. Christopher Mahoney, head of Sotheby’s photographs department, said the photography was significant “not just as documentation of fashion, but really as art.”
如今，审美鉴赏正推动时装摄影这一新交易。苏富比拍卖行摄影部主管克里斯托弗·马奥尼(Christopher Mahoney)说，时装摄影的重要意义“不仅在于它记录了时装，而且在于它是真正的艺术”。
“The reason that happened is because the work of a handful of photographers like Penn and Avedon, working in the ’40s, ’50s, ’60s and ’70s, really pushed fashion photography beyond its editorial purpose — or advertising purpose — and pushed it into the realm of fine art,” he said. “They broke the rules.”
“这一切发生的原因是40年代至70年代的一些摄影师，比如潘和埃夫登，真的让时装摄影超越了杂志和广告目的，让它进入了美术殿堂，”他说，“他们打破了规则。”
What’s the overarching appeal? “Fashion photographs are visually beautiful, and you don’t have to work too hard to understand them,” Ms. Staley said.
时装摄影最重要的吸引力是什么？“时装摄影在视觉上很美，你不必太费力就能理解它们，”斯特利说。
There is something else, too. “They are also culturally and historically full of signification, making it a really interesting thing to collect and show,” Mr. Grundberg said.
它们还有别的意义。“它们在文化上和历史上都具有重要意义，收藏和展示它们很有趣，”格伦德贝里说。
Vanessa Hallett, senior director and worldwide head of photographs at Phillips auction house, said of the photos: “What I love is there’s so much thought that goes into them. It’s not just a snap of a picture of a beautiful woman in a beautiful dress.”
菲利普斯拍卖行的摄影部高级总监和全球主管瓦妮莎·哈利特(Vanessa Hallett)提到这些照片时说：“我喜欢它们是因为它们包含着很多思考。不只是对着穿漂亮衣服的漂亮女人随便拍一下。”
Nuances make the works desirable for even connoisseurs of fine-art photography. “Irving Penn, for instance, is fascinating,” Mr. Mahoney said. “He does interesting things that you wouldn’t think would work, but they work beautifully — the inclusion of the edge of a backdrop, the edge of the seamless paper in the studio — something that is typically designed to dissolve into the background.”
这些作品微妙动人，连艺术摄影的鉴赏家们也很欣赏它们。“比如，欧文·潘就很棒，”马奥尼说，“他会做一些有意思的事，你以为那样行不通，但是拍出来很美。他把背景或者摄影棚无缝墙纸的边缘加到镜头中，通常那些东西是要融入背景中的。”
He added, “It gives you a sense of the space of the studio, placing you in the studio, while at the same time presenting these impossibly beautiful models and these impossibly beautiful fashion designs, which look completely otherworldly.”
他补充说，“它能让你感受摄影棚的空间，让你置身摄影棚，同时展示这些看起来完全不像来自尘世的美得不可思议的模特和服装。”
Then Penn incorporates “a certain grit and dirt in his images — the unswept floor that you see in a part of the image, the less-than-perfect-looking backdrop, a crushed cigarette,” Mr. Mahoney said. “The inclusion of that sort of detail might have thrown a photo editor into a conniption fit, but it throws the beauty of the fashion and the model into greater relief.”
马奥尼说，潘还会“在画面中”加入“砂砾和尘土，没扫干净的地面，看起来不完美的背景，以及捻碎的香烟”，“加入那种细节可能会把图片编辑弄疯，但是他把时装和模特的美带到了更高的境界”。
So much goes into what makes a print valuable, said Daile Kaplan, a vice president at Swann Auction Galleries in New York. “There’s the reputation of the photographer,” she said, “the celebrity or status of the subject, the size of the photo, the edition size of the photo, the technique, the provenance of who owned it previously, and if the photographer signed it or has notations on the back of the image and, of course, if you want to live with it.”
纽约斯旺拍卖画廊(Swann Auction Galleries)的副总裁黛尔·卡普兰(Daile Kaplan)说，决定一幅照片是否有价值的因素很多，包括“摄影师的声望，拍摄对象的名气或地位，照片的大小和版本尺寸，技术，前任拥有者的身份，以及摄影师是否签名或者在照片背面做有注释——当然如果你喜欢签名或注释的话”。
Images printed close to the time the camera shutter clicked are valued by collectors, especially those never published by a magazine and new to the market, Ms. Foresta added. Rivaling them are later platinum or palladium prints by photographers like Penn, recognizable by their matte surface, rich tone and wide range of grays.
福雷斯塔说，在拍照之后不久冲洗出来的照片更为收藏家们所珍视，特别是那些从未在杂志上刊登过的新出现在市场上的照片。能与之匹敌的是后来出自潘等摄影师的铂钯印相照片，它们的特点是表面无光泽，色彩丰富，灰度范围广。
Even uncredited fashion images, called vernacular photographs, are becoming a “hot, hot new genre right now,” Ms. Kaplan said.
卡普兰说，现在甚至连被称为民间照片的摄影师身份不详的时装照片也正变成“非常受欢迎的新门类”。
“They can be commercial studio photos, or images that are cool and curious, and we might not even know who the photographer was because they are uncredited, but the image rises to the top and is very much a compelling picture, a statement, an observation,” she said.
“它们包括商业摄影棚照片或者又酷又奇特的照片，我们甚至可能不知道摄影师是谁，但是这些照片迅速上位，它们非常吸引人，代表了一种宣言和独特的视角，”她说。
At the most recent Swann sale, a group of three fashion images taken by an unknown photographer in the late 1950s to ’60s sold for $975. “They’re just marvelous and fun,” Ms. Kaplan said.
在最近一次的斯旺拍卖会上，50年代末至60年代的一组三幅摄影师身份不明的时装照片卖出了975美元。“它们就是很棒，很有趣，”卡普兰说。
And collecting has certainly been fun for Larry and Melissa Lax. The true worth of their collection, they say, is how the photos make them feel.
对拉里和和梅利莎·拉克斯来说，收藏当然是有趣的。他们说，那些照片的真正价值是带给他们的感觉。
“We’ve become attached to each one,” Ms. Lax said. “I love them all. They make me smile.”
“我们依恋每一张照片，”拉克斯说，“我爱所有这些照片。它们能让我微笑。”