We were once described as “black crows” — us fashion folk gathered outside an abandoned, crumbling downtown building in a uniform of Comme des Garçons or Yohji Yamamoto. “Whose funeral is it?” passers-by would whisper with a mix of hushed caring and ghoulish inquiry, as we lined up for the hip, underground presentations back in the 1990s.
我们曾被称为“黑乌鸦”——我们这些时尚人士聚集在一栋老旧的废弃闹市建筑外，一律身着川久保玲(Comme des Garçons)或山本耀司(Yohji Yamamoto)的服装。“这是谁的葬礼？”路人的低语里夹杂着些许关怀和病态的好奇心。那时是上世纪90年代，我们正排着队准备参加时髦的地下时装秀。
Today, the people outside fashion shows are more like peacocks than crows. They pose and preen, in their multipatterned dresses, spidery legs balanced on club-sandwich platform shoes, or in thigh-high boots under sculptured coats blooming with flat flowers.
今天，秀场之外的人更像是孔雀，而不是乌鸦。她们搔首弄姿、洋洋自得，要么穿着图案复杂的裙装，蜘蛛般的双腿蹬在松糕鞋上，要么脚穿过膝高筒靴，立体剪裁的大衣上饰有盛开的平花图案。
There is likely to be a public stir when a group of young Japanese women spot their idol on parade: the Italian clothes peg Anna Dello Russo. Tall, slim, with a toned and tanned body, the designer and fashion editor is a walking display for designer goods: The wider the belt, the shorter and puffier the skirt, the more outré the shoes, the better. The crowd around her tweets madly: Who is she wearing? Has she changed her outfit since the last show? When will she wear her own H&M collection? Who gave her those mile-high shoes?!
当一群日本年轻女性在招摇的队伍中认出她们的偶像后，很可能会引起一场轰动：意大利时装界的标杆安娜·戴洛·罗素(Anna Dello Russo)来了。这位高挑、苗条、有着锻炼过的肌肉和日光浴后皮肤的设计师兼时尚杂志主编是名牌商品的活展柜：腰带越宽、裙子越短越蓬松、鞋子则越古怪越好。她周围的人群疯狂地发着Twitter帖子：她穿的是哪家的东西？上一场秀之后她换装了吗？什么时候她会穿自己的H&M系列？是谁给了她那双恨天高？！
The fuss around the shows now seems as important as what goes on inside the carefully guarded tents. It is as difficult to get in as it always was, when passionate fashion devotees used to appear stealthily from every corner hoping to sneak in to a Jean Paul Gaultier collection in the 1980s. But the difference is that now the action is outside the show, as a figure in a velvet shoulder cape and shorts struts his stuff, competing for attention with a woman in a big-sleeved blouse and supertight pants.
秀场周边的骚动似乎与戒备森严的帐篷内进行的事务同样重要。这里就像从前一样难以进入，在20世纪80年代，富有激情的时尚爱好者会偷偷出现在每一个角落，希望能够潜入让·保罗·高提耶(Jean Paul Gaultier)的时装展。但不同的是，现在的行动都在时装秀之外，一个穿着天鹅绒披肩和短裤的男子炫耀着他的服饰，与一名穿着大袖上衣和超级紧身裤的女子争夺注意力。
You can hardly get up the steps at Lincoln Center, in New York, or walk along the Tuileries Garden path in Paris because of all the photographers snapping at the poseurs. Cameras point as wildly at their prey as those original paparazzi in Fellini’s “La Dolce Vita.” But now subjects are ready and willing to be objects, not so much hunted down by the paparazzi as gagging for their attention.
你几乎很难走上纽约林肯中心(Lincoln Center)的台阶，或是漫步在巴黎的杜乐丽花园(Tuileries Garden)小径，因为在那里所有的摄影师都在拍摄那些装模作样者。就像费里尼(Fellini)的《甜蜜的生活》(La Dolce Vita)中的狗仔队一样，许多相机疯狂地指向它们的猎物。但拍照的对象现在已经做好准备，心甘情愿，目前已不是狗仔队追逐他们，而是这些人如饥似渴地吸引着摄影师的注意力。
Ah, fame! Or, more accurately in the fashion world, the celebrity circus of people who are famous for being famous. They are known mainly by their Facebook pages, their blogs and the fact that the street photographer Scott Schuman has immortalized them on his Sartorialist Web site. This photographer of “real people” has spawned legions of imitators, just as the editors who dress for attention are now challenged by bloggers who dress for attention.
啊，名声！或者以时装界里更准确的话说，他们是以善于出名而出名的名人马戏团。他们为人所知，主要是因为他们的Facebook页面和博客，以及街头摄影师斯科特·舒曼(Scott Schuman)在他的Sartorialist网站。这个网站让他们得以不朽。而这位拍摄“鲜活真人”的摄影师催生了大批模仿者，就像为吸引注意力而着装的编辑现在受到了为吸引注意力而着装的博客作者的挑战。
Having lived through the era of punk and those underground clubs in London’s East End, where the individuality and imagination of the outfits were fascinating, I can’t help feeling how different things were when cool kids loved to dress up for one another — or maybe just for themselves.
回首我在伦敦东区经历过那个朋克和地下俱乐部的时代，那时候服装的个性和想象力曾是如此迷人，酷酷的年轻人热爱为彼此，或者只是为了他们自己而打扮，转过头来，我不禁感叹彼时与当下的巨大差异。
There is a genuine difference between the stylish and the showoffs — and that is the current dilemma. If fashion is for everyone, is it fashion? The answer goes far beyond the collections and relates to the speed of fast fashion. There is no longer a time gap between when a small segment of fashion-conscious people pick up a trend and when it is all over the sidewalks.
时尚和作秀之间的差别是真实存在的，而这就是当前的两难境地。如果时尚属于每一个人，那它还是时尚吗？答案远在时装系列之外，而是与快速时尚的速度相关。现在，在一小撮时尚敏感人士发现某种趋势和大众接纳这种趋势之间，已经不存在时间差。
Now that women and men (think of the über-stylish Filipino blogger Bryanboy, whose real name is Bryan Grey Yambao) are used to promote the brands that have been wily enough to align themselves with people power, even those with so-called street style have lost their individuality.
现在的女人和男人们（想想超级时尚的菲律宾博客Bryanboy吧，他的真名叫布莱恩·格雷·扬包[Bryan Grey Yambao]）习惯于推介那些狡猾到把自己和民众力量相结合的品牌，即便是那些所谓的街头风格也已经失去了自己的个性。
Smartphones are so fabulous in so many ways that it seems daft to be nostalgic about the days when an image did not go round the world in a nanosecond. In the mid-1990s, when I stopped having to run from the shows to the film developing lab and first saw digital images, I blessed technology and was convinced that my working life was changing for the better. I had no inkling of the role that images would play, pitting fashion’s professionals — looking at shows for their own purposes of buying or reporting — against an online judge and jury. While fashion pros tend to have personal agendas related to their work, bloggers start a critical conversation that can spread virally.
智能手机有太多的好，再去怀念那些无法在一纳秒之内将图片传遍世界的日子似乎是愚蠢的。在20世纪90年代中期，当我不必再从时装秀奔向胶片冲洗室、并首次看到了数码照片时，我赞美了技术进步，并确信我的工作生活正变得更好。我完全没想到这些数码照片将会扮演这样的角色，让时尚专业人士（以购买或报道等个人原因观看时装秀者）陷入和网民法官和陪审团的竞争之中。时尚业内人士通常会有跟工作相关的个人企图，但博客要展开一场审辩式对话的目的却是可以成就病毒式传播。
Many of these changes have been exhilarating. It is great to see the commentaries from smart bloggers — especially those in countries like China or Russia, where there was, in the past, little possibility of sharing fashion thoughts and dreams — although I am leery about the idea that anyone can be a critic, passing judgment after seeing a show (from the front only and in distorted color) on Style.com or NowFashion. But two things have worked to turn fashion shows into a zoo: the cattle market of showoff people waiting to be chosen or rejected by the photographers, and the way that smart brands, in an attempt to claw back control lost to multimedia, have come in on the act. Marc Jacobs was the first designer to sense the power of multimedia. When he named a bag after Bryanboy in 2008, he made the blogger’s name, and turned on an apparently unending shower of designer gifts, which are warmly welcomed at bryanboy.com.
这些变化中有一些是令人振奋的。能看到那些聪明的博客评论是很美妙的——尤其是来自中国或俄罗斯之类国家，过去那些国家不大可能有机会分享时尚的想法和梦想。不过我对任何人都能成为批评家的想法持怀疑态度，从Style.com或NowFashion网站上看了几个时装秀视频（只有正面一个角度，而且颜色还失真）就可以发表评判。但是有两件事把时装秀变成了动物园：一是由喜欢炫耀的人构成的、等着被摄影师选上或拒绝的“牲畜市场”，二是企图从多媒体手中夺回控制权的那些聪明品牌开始采取行动。马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)是第一名意识到多媒体权力的设计师。当他在2008年以“Bryanboy”这个名字命名了一款包时，他让这个博客一举成名，并且就此开始没完没了地接到来自设计师的礼物，bryanboy.com对此欣然笑纳。
Many bloggers are — or were — perceptive and succinct in their comments. But with the aim now to receive trophy gifts and paid-for trips to the next round of shows, only the rarest of bloggers could be seen as a critic in its original meaning of a visual and cultural arbiter.
许多博客作者的评论是——或曾是——敏锐而精辟的。但现在都以获得风光的礼物、或是下一轮时装秀的差旅费报销为目的了，只有极少数的博客可以当成一名真正的批评家来看待，符合作为视觉和文化仲裁者的本来含义。
Adhering to the time-honored journalistic rule that reporters don’t take gifts (read: bribes), I am stunned at the open way bloggers announce which designer has given them what. There is something ridiculous about the self-aggrandizement of some online arbiters who go against the mantra that I was taught in my earliest days as a fashion journalist: “It isn’t good because you like it; you like it because it’s good.” Slim chance of that idea catching on among the fashion bloggers. Whether it is the sharp Susie Bubble or the bright Tavi Gevinson, judging fashion has become all about me: Look at me wearing the dress! Look at these shoes I have found! Look at me loving this outfit in 15 different images!
秉承悠久的记者规则，即记者不应收取礼物（即贿赂），我为博客作者公然宣布哪位设计师给了他们什么东西而震惊。一些网上仲裁者的自我膨胀令人感到可笑，他们反对我在初为时尚记者时学到的箴言：“并不是因为你喜欢它就好，而是因为它好所以你喜欢。”在时尚博客作者之中想找到这样的想法是很困难的。不论是犀利的“苏茜泡泡”(Susie Bubble)还是机灵的泰薇·盖文森(Tavi Gevinson)，评判时尚已经完全变成了说自己：看我穿的这件衣服！看我发现的这些鞋！看看我爱上这身衣服的15张不同的图片！
Fashion has to some extent become mob rule — or, at least, a survival of the most popular in a melee of crowdsourcing. The original “Project Runway,” a television show that chose participants with at least a basic knowledge of fashion, has been followed worldwide by “American Idol”-style initiatives, in which a public vote selects the fashion winner. Who needs to graduate from Central Saint Martins in London or New York’s Fashion Institute of Technology when a homemade outfit can go viral on YouTube with millions of hits?
时尚已在某种程度上成为了暴民统治——或者至少是在众包的混战中争取成为最受欢迎者的一场生存游戏。原版的《天桥骄子》(Project Runway)电视节目会选择对时尚至少有些基础知识的参与者，现在在全球出现了一系列“美国偶像”(American Idol)式的跟风者，由公众投票来选择时尚赢家。当自制服装可以在YouTube上被病毒式传播，获得数以百万计的点击率时，谁还需要去伦敦的中央圣马丁学院(Central Saint Martins)或纽约的时装技术学院(Fashion Institute of Technology)读书呢？
Playing King Canute and trying to hold back the wave of digital fashion stuff is doomed for failure. But something has been lost in a world where the survival of the gaudiest is a new kind of dress parade. Perhaps the perfect answer would be to let the public preening go on out front, while the show moves, stealthily, to a different and secret venue, with the audience just a group of dedicated pros — dressed head to toe in black, of course.
以卡纽特大王(King Canute)自居，企图喝退数字时尚的浪潮是注定要失败的。但在这个最艳俗者求生存已经成为一种新的时装表演的世界里，一些有价值的东西已经遗失了。完美的答案或许是，让台前继续上演洋洋自得的盛装游行，把时装秀悄悄转移到另一个秘密地点进行，那里的观众只是一群全身心投入的业内人士——从头到脚当然还是一身黑。