When Angel Chang brews a pot of tea these days she uses leaves from a rural area in southwest China, the same place where her latest designs were created.
最近，张安骅(Angel Chang)泡茶用的都是中国西南部农村的茶叶。她最新的设计就是在那里进行的。
One recent morning, with some of her clothing piled on the table, Ms. Chang poured some of that tea into two small cups as she talked about the spot: Dimen village in Guizhou Province.
最近的一个早上，张安骅把泡好的茶倒进两个小杯子里，谈起了那个地方：贵州省地扪村。桌子上堆着她做的一些衣服。
After three years of commuting to the region, the designer spent most of 2012 there, producing 40 pieces of clothing with the help of artisans from the Miao and Dong ethnic groups.
2012年之前的三年，她多次前往那个地区。2012年，她大部分时间都住在那里，在苗族和侗族手工艺人的帮助下，做了40件衣服。
Ms. Chang discovered their crafts while visiting the Shanghai Museum in 2009. She had been working in New York, but was disillusioned by the economic downturn and felt she needed a change from working with high-tech elements, like the color-changing fabrics she had been using.
2009年，张安骅在参观上海博物馆时，发现了他们的手工艺品。之前她在纽约工作，但是经济低迷让她感到失望，觉得自己需要改变一下，不再在高科技元素上做文章，比如她从前使用的变色面料。
At the museum, “I found these incredible costumes,” she said. “I assumed the clothes were 200 years old, but they had been made in the last 50 years.”
她说，在上海博物馆，“我发现了这些不可思议的服装。我以为它们有两百年的历史，但实际上它们是在过去50年做出来的”。
She became interested in the clothing, then in the ethnic minorities who created the fabric and its embellishment. Shortly after seeing the exhibition, she traveled to the region and, with the aid of a translator who has helped the British Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art find items for their collections, began learning about the villages and their artisans.
她对这些服装产生了兴趣，然后对创造这些面料和装饰的少数民族产生了兴趣。看完那个展览后不久，她去了那个地区，在一名翻译的协助下，开始了解那些村庄以及那里的手工艺人。那位翻译曾帮助英国国家博物馆和大都会艺术博物馆寻找收藏品。
During one stop, she met a woman who had been working on a jacket for her son for two years.
在其中一个地方，她碰见一个女人在给儿子做上衣，这件衣服她已经做了两年了。
“We went to a village looking for a woman that could do triangle-pleated embroidery,” Ms. Chang said. “I was shocked. There was one light bulb hanging from the ceiling and a dirt floor. In this setting, she was creating the pieces I had seen in the museum.”
“我们去一个村子寻找一个会做三角褶刺绣的女人，”张安骅说，“我感到十分震惊。天花板上垂下来一个灯泡，地板是泥地。就在这样的环境中，她在做我在博物馆看到的那些衣服。”
“In all this poverty, she is making something that is so exact and so perfect. It looked like couture,” she said.
“家境这样贫困，她却在制作如此精致、完美的东西。那衣服看起来像高级定制服装，”她说。
Ms. Chang finally decided to draw on her experience at fashion houses like Donna Karan to create a collection using, as she phrases it, “1,000 years of ancient craftsmanship reinterpreted into modern design.”
张安骅最终决定利用她在唐娜·凯伦(Donna Karan)等时装公司的经验创作一个服装系列，“把有一千年历史的古老手工艺融入现代设计中”。
In her Paris apartment, the samples of her custom-order styles were hanging on a rack nearby. The clothing — in yellows from dyes made of chrysanthemum and pomegranate, gray from the Chinese tallow tree, black from local barks, and indigo — is so familiar to Ms. Chang that she can tell their origins by touch: A soft silk was from Gulong village, a rougher cotton from Zhaoxing, she said.
在她巴黎的公寓里，定购的样品挂在旁边的架子上。那些衣服五颜六色：黄色是用菊花和石榴的汁液染成的，灰色是用乌桕树的汁液染成的，黑色是用当地的树皮染成的，另外还有靛蓝色。张安骅非常熟悉这些面料，摸一下，她就知道它们的来源地：柔软的丝绸来自古龙村，相对粗糙的棉质面料来自肇兴村。
One standout was a cotton damask suit in indigo, with a Perfecto-style jacket and cropped pants . The fabric was made by the Dong people of Hongzhou village, where they grow their own cotton and make indigo dye.
其中特别显眼的是一套靛蓝色的棉质锦缎服装，上衣的样式有点像摩托夹克，下面是过膝宽松裤。面料是洪州村的侗族居民做的，他们自己种棉花，自己做靛蓝染料。
Ms. Chang said it took her about a year, on and off, to find the right craftspeople. “It was a lot of detective work, driving from village to village and asking grandmas and finding out how to get there,” she said.
张安骅说，她断断续续差不多花了一年时间才找对了手工艺人。“我们做了很多调查，开着车挨村挨户地找，询问那里的老奶奶们，寻找去那里的路，”她说。
In Hongzhou, it takes one person about 30 days to produce enough cotton brocade for one adult-size jacket. When they create the fabric for themselves, it is used for baby carriers. “There are auspicious symbols woven into the material to protect the baby, while also telling the history of the people,” the designer explained.
在洪州村，一个人大概要花30天才能做出足够做一件成人上衣的织锦棉布。这种面料留作自用的话，仅用于制作婴儿背带。“面料上绣有吉祥的符号，为的是护佑婴孩，同时也讲述了这个民族的历史，”这位设计师解释说。
In the village of Lishanzhai, Ms. Chang found a grandmother who could weave pure silk into a long-sleeve shirt and matching wide pants. Xijiang, the largest Miao village, made the dye for the silks, using mountain flowers, fresh leaves and tree bark.
在立山寨，张安骅遇到了一位老奶奶，她能把纯丝缝入长袖衬衫中，与宽松的裤子搭配。西江寨是最大的苗寨，那里的人用山花、鲜叶和树皮给这些丝绸染色。
“Soft yellow is dyed in May, when those flowers are in bloom, and black in July and August, when the bark can be removed without harming the tree,” she explained.
“柔和的黄色是5月份染的，因为那时候鲜花盛开；黑色是七八月份染的，因为那时候剥树皮不会伤害到树，”她解释说。
Ms. Chang, who was raised in Indiana and graduated from Columbia University, says she had a lot of help with her fashion efforts.
张安骅在印第安纳州长大，毕业于哥伦比亚大学。她说在自己的服装事业发展中，她得到过很多帮助。
When Cartier invited her to speak at a women’s forum in 2010 — in 2007, she had won a Cartier Women’s Initiative Award — she met Jiang Qiong Er, artistic director and chief executive of Shang Xia, the contemporary Chinese luxury brand whose majority owner is the French fashion house Hermès.
2007年，她获得了卡地亚(Cartier)灵思涌动女性创业家奖。2010 年，卡地亚邀请她在一个女性论坛上讲话，她在那里遇到了蒋琼耳。后者是上下(Shang Xia)品牌的艺术总监和总经理。上下是个中国当代奢侈品牌，其最大的持有者是法国时装公司爱马仕(Hermès)。
With Ms. Jiang’s support, and later that of Pierre Berard, who at the time headed marketing in China for the distilled beverage company Pernod Ricard, Ms. Chang established herself in China.
先是在蒋琼耳的支持下，后来又在皮埃尔·贝拉尔德(Pierre Berard)的支持下，张安骅在中国站住了脚跟。贝拉尔德当时负责酒精饮料公司保乐力加(Pernod Ricard)在中国的市场推广。
She began working with the Western China Cultural Ecology Research Workshop in Dimen, and eventually began seeing her collection as a way of helping local people sustain both themselves and their crafts.
一开始，她在地扪村与中国西部文化生态研究小组合作，后来发现她的服装系列可以帮助当地人维持生计并传承手艺。
At first, “I just wanted them to make me beautiful embroidery. My second instinct was why don’t they make my embroidery on a bigger scale? They were losing their eyesight,” she said. “Out of the initial want developed a social interest.”
她说，刚开始“我只是想让她们给我做好看的刺绣。我的第二反应是为什么不能让她们以更大的规模做我的刺绣呢？她们的眼睛都要瞎了。从最初的需求中衍生出了一种社会利益”。
Valerie Steele, chief curator and director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, was Ms. Chang’s thesis adviser at Columbia. “The Miao people have a tradition of incredible textile techniques,” she said. “It would be great if Angel could help keep that knowledge alive.”
瓦莱丽·斯蒂勒(Valerie Steele)是纽约时装技术学院博物馆的首席策展人和总监。她是张安骅在哥伦比亚大学的毕业论文指导老师。“苗族有不可思议的纺织技艺传统，”她说，“如果安杰尔（张安骅的英文名——译注）能帮助她们让这种技艺留传下去，那真是太好了。”
Ms. Chang’s first pieces debuted at a Pernod Ricard fashion show and dinner in Shanghai in October 2012, and another group was shown in September 2013 at a Fashion 4 Development lunch in New York. She now is selling some styles through ahalife.com, an online retail site.
2012年10月，张安骅的第一批衣服在上海的保乐力加时装展示晚宴上登场。另一批于2013年9月在纽约的Fashion 4 Development午宴上展示。她现在通过在线零售网站ahalife.com销售部分服装。
“The collection has the natural handwork in the fabrics and a unique style that I would like to see more of in the global market,” said Evie Evangelou, president and founder of the nonprofit Fashion 4 Development.
“这个服装系列的面料是天然手工做成的，有独特的风格，我希望在全球市场上能看到更多这样的服装，”非盈利组织Fashion 4 Development的主席、创始人埃维·埃万耶卢(Evie Evangelou)说。
“Angel’s work is in line with the mission of F4D, to create economic development through fashion and also help preserve cultures.”
“安杰尔的作品和F4D的使命是一致的，都是通过时装促进经济发展，同时有助于保护传统文化。”
Ms. Chang says she remembers talking with a translator about how difficult it would be to have some fabric made in one of the Guizhou villages.
张安骅说她还记得跟一位翻译谈论在贵州某个村庄制作某种面料的艰难过程。
“He said no one will do it until you show them it can be done,” she said. “Kids in the countryside get out of high school and go and work in the fast fashion factories. I want to show them what their grandmothers do is cool.”
“他说，没人会那样做，除非你让她们看到可以那样做，”她说，“农村的孩子高中毕业后就去快速服装厂工作。我想让她们知道她们祖母做的东西很酷。”