The most despairing image in Chris Ware’s magnificent new graphic novel, “Building Stories” — and there are plenty of candidates — depicts a dumpy middle-aged couple, naked in their bedroom. She’s just dropped her clothes to the floor; he’s lying on the bed, oblivious to her, his face and chest illuminated by the iPad propped on his belly.
在克里斯·韦尔出色的漫画小说新作《小楼故事》里，有不少令人感到绝望的情景，但最绝望的恐怕要算是一对矮胖的中年夫妇，在卧室里赤裸着身体的一幕。女人脱下衣服扔在地上，男人躺在床上，根本没注意到她，放在肚皮上的iPad照亮他的面孔和胸口。
You will never be able to read “Building Stories” on a digital tablet, by design. It is a physical object, printed on wood pulp, darn it. It’s a big, sturdy box, containing 14 different “easily misplaced elements” — a hard-bound volume or two, pamphlets and leaflets of various dimensions, a monstrously huge tabloid à la century-old Sunday newspaper comics sections and a folded board of the sort that might once have come with a fancy game. In which order should one read them? Whatever, Ware shrugs, uncharacteristically relinquishing his customary absolute control. In the world of “Building Stories,” linearity leads only to decay and death.
因为设计的关系，你永远没法在电子设备上阅读《小楼故事》。它是实体书，印刷在木质纸浆制成的纸张上，真讨厌啊。它是个巨大结实的盒子，里面有14件不同的“可以随意排列的元素”，其中包括一两本精装书、还有小册子，以及各种大小不一的插页和一份巨大怪异的小报，好像是一个世纪以前报纸的周末漫画版，此外还有一个折起来的纸板，好像是什么有趣游戏的棋盘。读者应该先看哪个后看哪个呢？不管怎样，韦尔耸耸肩，一反常态地放弃了绝对控制权。在《小楼故事》的世界里，直线性只能导致衰落与死亡。
Arguably, the box’s central nugget of story is a sequence Ware serialized in The New York Times Magazine in the mid-2000s, which appears here in something that approximates the dimensions and binding of a Little Golden Book. The chief protagonist of “Building Stories,” a sad, lonely florist with a prosthetic leg (Ware never gives her a name), lives on the third story of a 98-year-old building in Chicago. She’s a former art student who eventually gave up on creating anything: as she explains in a pseudo-gag cartoon on the edge of the box (!), she was “just art curious.”
这个盒子里最核心的精华故事无疑是韦尔2005年前后在《纽约时报杂志》上的连载，现在又在这里出现，尺寸和装帧与“金色童书系列”(Little Golden Book)相当。《小楼故事》的主角是一个悲伤、孤独、装有一条假腿的卖花女（书中始终没有说她的名字），住在芝加哥一栋有98年历史的建筑的三楼。她以前是艺术系学生，后来放弃了创作。她在一幅假造的幽默卡通（是画在盒子边缘的！）里解释说，自己“只是对艺术有好奇而已”。
Below her, on the second floor, there’s a couple whose romance is utterly dead; the ground floor is occupied by the landlady, an elderly, faltering spinster. On an autumn day in 2000, the florist deals with a plumbing problem, briefly loses her cat and has a fumbling makeout session with a former classmate. An epilogue shows her, five years later, driving past the building with her baby daughter; on that section’s back cover, a wrecking ball is smashing off the corner of her former apartment. That’s what you get for chasing time’s arrow.
她楼下的二层住着一对已经彻底不再相爱的夫妻；一层住的是女房东，一位步履蹒跚的老处女。2000年的一个秋天，卖花女家的下水道出了问题，养的猫一时跑丢了，她正和一个校友笨手笨脚地爱抚亲热。故事的尾声中写到她在5年后开车带着小女儿经过这栋建筑；在大楼后方看到落锤破碎机正把她以前住的那个公寓砸毁。想找回往事就是这样的结果。
Instead, Ware lets his readers follow the gnarled paths memory takes as it builds and rebuilds stories. The individual elements of the box show us the building and its residents at fraught moments in their lives, or chart aspects of their existence over time. Ware has an extraordinary command of time and pacing: one bravura page depicts the florist and her husband dealing with her father’s decline over several months, every panel a perfectly composed little square, the thought balloons doubling as after-the-fact narration, and the whole thing a tribute to the look of Frank King’s old “Gasoline Alley” Sunday pages. In another sequence, we see the landlady age 80 years in 18 panels, with paper-doll tabs extending from her body. A bee who’s trapped inside the building until the florist opens a window turns up again as the star of his own comics, the closest thing to comedic relief here. (The spiritual crises and sexual neuroses of “Branford, the Best Bee in the World” amount to little more or less than any of the human characters’; in a moment of self-loathing, he concludes that he’s “an impure, disgusting slug who thinks too much of fertilizing the queen.”)
但是，韦尔让读者沿着曲折的记忆道路，追溯记忆建构与重建的故事。盒子中的每一个元素都向我们展现这栋建筑中的居民生活里的忧虑时刻，或者为我们描绘出在时间流逝过程中，他们生活里的种种侧面。韦尔对时间和节奏有种非凡的掌控能力。其中有一页描述卖花女和她丈夫几个月来一直在应对她父亲年老体衰的问题，这一页格外精彩。每一帧正方形的画面都很完美，对话框里有人物的思维活动和事后叙述。整幅作品是在向弗兰克·金(Frank King)古老的星期日连载漫画《汽油巷》(Gasoline Alley)致敬。在另一个系列里，我们可以看到18帧画面，画的是80岁的女房东，她身上标记着纸板娃娃的标签。还有一只蜜蜂被困在楼里，直到卖花女打开窗子才逃出去，它也是一个故事的主角，是全书中最接近轻松喜剧的部分。它的故事名叫《布朗福德：世界上最好的蜜蜂》(Branford, the Best Bee in the World)，其中蕴含的精神危机与性焦虑使它多少有点像个人类角色，在自我厌恶时，它说自己是“肮脏恶心的鼻涕虫，光想着怎么让蜂后怀孕”。
The organizing principle of “Building Stories” is architecture, and — even more than he usually does — Ware renders places and events alike as architectural diagrams. He’s certain of every detail of these rooms, and tends to splay their furnishings out diagonally to show how they fit together. Every visual observation of bodies or nature is ruthlessly adjusted to the level of symbol, rendered in a minimal number of hard, perfectly even, perfectly straight or curved lines. Elaborate strings of micro-panels explode scenes’ components outward through time or through a character’s thought patterns; mandala-ish page compositions arrange associative chains of text and pictures around a central image. The florist’s young daughter appears, practically life-size, at the middle of one of the biggest double-page sequences in the book.
《小楼故事》的构架如同建筑学一般，韦尔处理地点和事件就像制作建筑图表一样，比他以前的风格更甚。他对房间内的一切细节都胸有成竹，好像要把所有家具沿对角线切开，展示它们的构造一样。对身体或天性的外部观察被无情地调整为符号级，呈现方式不过是了了数笔有力而平整的完美直线或曲线。精美的一列列漫画由一帧帧小图构成，场景的组成部分随着时间或角色的思维方式而爆发；页面构图如同一幅曼荼罗，文字和图案的序列环绕着中心图案排布。卖花者的小女儿第一次出现时，几乎是真人比例大小，被画在全书最大的双张插页中心。
“Building Stories” is one of the two enormous projects Ware has been working on since “Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth” made his reputation in 2000. (The other is “Rusty Brown,” apparently still in progress.) It’s so far ahead of the game that it tempts you to find fault just to prove that a human made it, and there are absolutely faults to be found. The way Ware hangs a lantern on his story’s weaker beats, for instance — when a not-quite-dead baby mouse reminds one character of a long-ago abortion, she thinks: “What a ridiculous metaphor . . . really, could it have been any more obvious? I was embarrassed for who or whatever was coming up with the script for my life” — doesn’t make them any stronger.
2000年的《吉米·卡里甘：世界上最聪明的孩子》(Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth)为韦尔奠定了声誉，自那以后，韦尔又推出了两本大部头，《小楼故事》就是其中之一，另一本是尚未完成的《生锈的布朗》(Rusty Brown)。这本书实在是太超前了，诱惑着读者去挑剔它的缺点，哪怕只为证明它是凡人所写的也好，当然，它也的确有很多缺点可以挑剔。比如在类似这样的情节里，一只快死掉的小老鼠让书中人物想起自己很久以前的流产，她想：“多可笑的隐喻啊，还能更明显吗？我为那些带着我生命的密码出现的人或事感到尴尬。”韦尔想强调故事里感情脆弱的部分，却没有使这些部分变得更有力量。
Still, Ware is remarkably deft at balancing the demands of fine art, where sentimentality is an error, and those of storytelling, where emotion is everything. He rejects the possibility of showing his hand in his (notably handmade) artwork, but that watertight visual surface lets him get away with vast billows of existential torment. Quiet desperation is just about the best anybody can hope for in Ware’s world. To be fair, this time he doesn’t punish all of his characters for having the temerity to be in his story. A lengthy, wordless pamphlet about the florist’s love for her daughter may be the tenderest thing Ware has ever published.
不过，韦尔非常擅长平衡美术设计的需要，美术设计不需要多愁善感，但讲故事的时候情感是最重要的东西。他不想在书中的插图（显然是手绘）里显示他自己的特质，但是完美的视觉效果让他得以避免存在主义折磨的惊涛骇浪。人们在韦尔的世界里至多只能得到宁静的绝望。公平地说，这一次他并没有虐待自己笔下的所有角色。盒子里有一本长长的，只有插图没有文字的小册子，讲的是卖花女对女儿的爱，可能是韦尔出过的所有书中最温情脉脉的部分。
Like everything else here, it’s also slow, demanding and melancholy. Ware has earned the right to make demands of his readers, though. He’s built a whole microcosm in this box, over the course of more than a decade. You have to play by his rules to perceive its complicated splendor, or find yourself like Branford the bee, stuck behind a pane of “hard air” and unable to reach the flower beyond it.
就像他的其他作品一样，这本书同样节奏缓慢、忧郁伤感，对读者要求很高。不过韦尔已经为自己赢得对读者有所要求的权利。他花费了10多年的时间，在这个盒子里建造了一个小宇宙。你必须按照他的规则才能领会这复杂的美，要不就只能像蜜蜂布朗福德那样被困在一块“坚硬的空气”之后，无法透过它触及外面的鲜花。