Cuba at times can feel like a nation abandoned. The aching disrepair of its cities, the untamed foliage of its countryside, the orphaned coastlines — a half-century of isolation has wrapped the country in decay. Yet few places in the world brim with as much life as Cuba, a contrast drawn sharper amid its faded grandeur.
有时候，古巴感觉如同一个被遗弃的国家。城市年久失修，农村野草遍地，海岸线孤独无依——半个世纪的隔绝，让一层颓败的气息笼罩着这个国家。然而，世界上很少有哪个地方像古巴这样活力洋溢，与其褪色的光华形成了鲜明对比。
They wait, coiled with anticipation. For web pages to download. For tourists to hurry up and buy something. For a flag to be raised. Cubans know how to wait. Yet, after decades of Communist rule, they are less prepared to handle the feeling of opportunity now permeating the island, and their government’s resistance to letting them seize it.
他们在等待，心头萦绕着期盼。等待网页下载。等待游客匆匆前来购物。等待一面旗帜升起。古巴人知道如何等待。然而，经历了几十年的共产党统治之后，他们仍缺乏心理准备，不知道如何面对这个岛上弥漫的机会，以及政府对赋予民众机会的抗拒。
Breaking out of Havana is essential, eye-opening, often impossible. Flights are irregular, leaving in their own good time — if at all. The search for a car that can handle the gouged roads and aged infrastructure will plumb the depths of your patience. The effort, though, is worth it. The country yields all the complexity, beauty and idiosyncrasy of one of the world’s few remaining frontiers.
挣脱哈瓦那是不可替代的经历，让人眼界大开，往往也困难重重。航班没有固定排期，全按自己决定的时间出发——有时遥遥无期。想找到一辆可以在坑洼路面上行驶，应付得了老化基础设施的汽车，要消耗你的大量耐心。不过这种努力是值得的。作为世界上仅存不多的边陲之一，古巴错综复杂、美丽，又独具特质。
From the outside, the destruction is palpable. Paint molts from walls. Structures list to one side. Facades torn from the edges of homes leave dollhouse interiors exposed to the elements. Look closer, though, at knickknacks arranged just so on splintered shelves. Cracked floors swept clean. Plastic flowers perfectly arranged. Quiet pride in every detail.
从外面看，它的破败显而易见。墙壁上涂料脱皮。建筑物向一侧倾斜。住房像玩具一样，边角在几十年的岁月中裂了缝，室内漏风漏雨。但是走近一看，开裂的架子上精心布置着小摆设。崩开的地板打扫得干干净净。塑料花摆成了完美的姿态。安静的自豪感彰显在每个细节之中。
The revolution is over. It has been for decades. Not that you would know it from the rhetoric or the adulation bestowed on this slice of Cuban history, at least by Communist Party leaders. But when the sound waves subside and the propaganda quiets, what you find is a military clinging to historic relevance, with an uncertain place in today’s Cuba. Like much else there, its aging weaponry and upper ranks have been sealed up in a time capsule for more than 50 years.
革命已经结束，它已结束了几十年。但关于那段历史的官方话语甚至歌颂——至少共产党领导层对它的歌颂——都观察不到这一点。但是，当声浪褪去，宣传平息下来，你会发现军方想极力抓住过去的地位，但在今天的古巴却处在一个不确定的位置。就像那里的其他很多东西一样，老化的武器装备和年长的高级军官已经被封存在了一个时间胶囊里，超过50年之久。
The trappings of the past are literal in Cuba — the ancient Chevys, the faded posters of Fidel. It can, at times, seem studied, a museum of quaintness, until you need a ride somewhere and come to realize that these classics, not meant to be cute, are vital transportation for the Havana masses. Or you realize that the posters cling to the walls of a former revolutionary’s home, the charm only incidental
古巴确实停留在过去——古旧的雪佛兰、菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)褪色的海报。有时，你感觉这好像是刻意为之，是一个奇异博物馆的展览，直到你需要搭车去什么地方，才会意识到这些老爷车在这里不是因为可爱，而是哈瓦那公众必不可少的交通工具；才会意识到前革命者故居墙上的海报散发出的魅力，并不是它的主要用途。
Tourism is inescapable in today’s Cuba. Selfies on the Malecon. Shots of classic cars. Che T-shirts. For Cubans, this is for now the highest rung in the emerging economic order, one of the few ways to break free of monthly salaries that could scarcely pay for an hour of parking in Miami. Cubans scrape together what they can to offer services outside their areas of specialization. Here, doctors drive cabs, engineers hawk tamales and working farmers hustle to sell a horse ride to travelers.
今天的古巴，旅游业是一个避不开的主题。在哈瓦那海滨大道上自拍。拍摄老爷车的照片。切·格瓦拉肖像T恤。对于月工资只够勉强在迈阿密停一个小时车的古巴人来说，这就是新兴的经济秩序中，当下最高明的门路，是寥寥可数的几种外快来源之一。古巴人努力在自己的专长领域以外，找到可以提供的旅游服务。在这里，医生开着出租车、工程师沿街叫卖玉米粉蒸肉，农民向旅客推销骑马服务。
In a land of iconic imagery, perhaps no images are more revered, marketed or pervasive than those of the nation’s revolutionary heroes. Ground zero for this iconography is the Plaza de la Revolucíon. The black outlines of Fidel Castro, Ernesto Che Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos grace the walls of buildings flanking the plaza, their images looming large over the heart of the nation.
在这片充满偶像肖像的土地上，最受尊敬，宣传最多，最常见的也许就是古巴革命英雄的肖像了。革命广场(Plaza de la Revolucíon)是这种肖像汇聚的中心。在广场侧翼的墙上，菲德尔·卡斯特罗、埃内斯托·切·格瓦拉、卡米洛·西恩富戈斯(Camilo Cienfuegos)的肖像在这个国家的心脏无法回避。
Though Cuban society has been closed off from the world for a half-century, there remains an uncanny openness about the nation’s people. Pop into a random apartment and the worst you may get is a wary stare, followed by a joke. Cubans seem inoculated from the preoccupation with privacy that infects other countries. Life is lived in public here, doors cast open to the night, beckoning the passers-by.
虽然古巴社会已经与世界隔绝了半个世纪，但这个国家的民众仍然具有某种离奇的开放性。随便走进哪所公寓，最糟糕的情况也不过是遭遇警觉的眼神，跟着就是说笑。其他国家对隐私的关注，在古巴人身上似乎是免疫的。这里的人敞开门过着生活，夜不闭户，仿佛在和行人打着招呼。