She’s famous for a lifetime of campaigning for democracy in Myanmar, has been honored with a Nobel Prize, and now, thanks to an electoral triumph, she is the leading political figure in her country.
她因为缅甸争取民主奋斗终生而闻名于世，曾经荣获过诺贝尔奖，而现如今，大选的成功，让她成为了缅甸国内的风云政治人物。
But for anyone who speaks or writes about her, she presents something of a quandary: What do you call Daw Aung San Suu Kyi for short?
不过，对那些谈论或者是报道她的人来说，有一个令人头疼的问题：该如何简称昂山素季女士(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi )？
Western notions of first and last names don’t really apply in Myanmar, formerly Burma. Burmese people generally don’t hand down family names from one generation to another, or change a birth name upon marriage. And there’s no particular pattern to the number of syllable elements, except that very short names like U Nu are becoming a bit less common.
西方社会所熟悉的姓名称呼方式在缅甸并不适用。缅甸民众并不世代沿袭家族姓氏，在婚后也不改变姓名。在音节上也没有什么规律可循，有些很短的名字，像U Nu之类的，但是也用的越来越少。
Burmese people use courtesy titles to convey social status, and consider them a more essential part of the name than Mr. or Ms. would be in English. Daw is one such prefix; it translates literally as “aunt” but means something more like “madame,” and denotes an older or married woman of substance. (U is the equivalent for a man.) When she was a girl, her name would have started with Ma instead of Daw.
缅甸民众习惯使用礼节性的称呼，这一用法体现了对象的社会、地位、身份。这一做法类似英语中的“先生女士”，但是又更深一层。“杜”(Daw)就是这么一个敬语前缀，按字面意思翻译过来意为“阿姨”但是表达的含义更加类似于“女士”，含义是一位年纪较长的妇女或是已婚妇女。（U的用法与此一致，用于男性。）在她还是一位小女孩的时候，名字的敬语前缀应为“玛”(Ma)而不是“杜”。
Parents can draw elements of a child’s name from wherever they like, and in Daw Aung San Suu Kyi’s case, hers came from theirs — her father was the independence leader Gen. Aung San and her mother the diplomat Khin Kyi — as well as from her grandmother’s (the Suu part, which also refers to the day of the week when she was born).
家长可以给他们的孩子任意取名，不用考虑姓名顺序。拿昂山素季这一名字来说，她的名字来自她的大家庭。她的父亲是缅甸独立领袖昂山将军，她母亲是驻印度大使金季女士，“素”则是来自于她的祖母（素还有另一个代表意义，意指她出生的那一天。）
Her brothers’ names also start with Aung San, so that’s not ideal for a nickname. Instead, Burmese people tend to shorten her name using the Suu part, to Daw Suu or Amay Suu (Mother Suu) or to Dr. Suu Kyi (she has an honorary doctorate from Oxford).
她的哥哥的名字也是昂山开头，因此“昂山”并不是一个理想的简称。缅甸民众更倾向于用“素”来简称她的名字，例如”杜素” 或者“阿美素”（Amay Suu，意为素妈妈）或者素季博士（她是牛津博士毕业。）
That’s also the route Hillary Clinton followed when she was secretary of state: In 2012, for example, Mrs. Clinton referred to her familiarly as Suu Kyi.
这也是希拉里·克林顿采取的做法，希拉里在2012年当国务卿时叫她“素季”
The New York Times Manual of Style and Usage, though, brooks no such familiarity: It advises that the second reference should be Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, which hardly helps in the “for short” quandary.
而在《纽约时报姓名用法指导手册》上却有不同的见解，它给出的引用建议为“昂山素季女士”，可是这对简称并无贡献。