NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar — The party of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of Myanmar’s pro-democracy movement, named a longtime party loyalist on Thursday as the country’s likely next president, and a party official reiterated that he would answer to Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi while in office.
缅甸内比都——缅甸民主运动领导人昂山素季所在的政党周四提名了一名长期效忠该党的人作为缅甸可能的下任总统，该党一名官员重申，他任职期间会向昂山素季负责。
U Htin Kyaw, 69, was nominated by the National League for Democracy, which controls both houses of Myanmar’s new Parliament after its sweeping victory in November elections. The party nominated two candidates, one of whom is expected to become vice president; U Tun Tun Hein, a member of the party’s central executive committee, said Mr. Htin Kyaw was the party’s choice for the presidency, and he confirmed Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s earlier assertion that the president would essentially be her subordinate.
69岁的廷觉(Htin Kyaw)获得了全国民主联盟的提名，该党在去年11月的选举中大获全胜后控制着缅甸新一届联邦议会的两院。该党提名了两位候选人，其中一人有望成为副总统。全国民主联盟中央执行委员会成员敦敦亨(Tun Tun Hein)表示，该党选择廷觉为总统，他证实了昂山素季早些时候的说法，总统将基本上是她的下属。
“She will hold the post handling three institutions: the government, the Parliament and the party,” Mr. Tun Tun Hein said. Alluding to the military dictatorships of Myanmar’s recent past, he added, “If there was once the senior general in the country, she will be the senior president.”
“她将具有管理政府、议会和党这三个机构的职位，”敦敦亨说。他间接提到缅甸前不久的军事独裁补充道，“如果说国家曾经有过一位资深将军，她将是一位资深总统。”
Under Myanmar’s indirect presidential election system, the Parliament is expected to choose a president and two vice presidents from among five candidates over the next week, about two weeks before the winners are to take office. The National League for Democracy’s majority of about 60 percent in both houses means that its two candidates are certain to be elected president and vice president; the other vice president will be a candidate chosen by the military, which guaranteed itself a significant role in government when it created Myanmar’s current Constitution.
按照缅甸的间接总统选举制度，联邦议会预计将在下周内从五名候选人中选出一位总统和两位副总统，这大约是在获胜者就职的两周前。全国民主联盟在联邦议会的两院拥有约60％的多数席位，这意味着该党的两名候选人一定会当选总统和副总统。另一位副总统将由军队选出，军队在制定缅甸现行的宪法时，保障了自己在政府中有相当重要的作用。
In a speech to members of Parliament after the nominations, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi acknowledged that the next president would be Mr. Htin Kyaw, referring to his work for the Daw Khin Kyi Foundation, a charity she established in 2012 to improve health, education and living standards in underdeveloped parts of the country.
在宣布提名人后对联邦议会议员发表讲话时，昂山素季承认，下一任总统将是廷觉，她在讲话中提到廷觉曾为金季基金会(Daw Khin Kyi Foundation)工作，这是昂山素季于2012年成立的一家为在国内欠发达地区改善健康、教育和生活水平的慈善机构。
“I believe people will like today’s candidates,” she said. The speech was closed to journalists, but her comments could be heard outside the meeting room.
“我相信人们会喜欢今天的这些候选人，”她说。讲话没有对记者开放，但她的发言可以在会议室外面听到。
The new president will replace U Thein Sein, a former general who oversaw a gradual reduction in military control and the increasing democratization of Myanmar, also known as Burma, after decades of outright military rule.
新总统将取代登盛。在缅甸经历了几十年的全面军事统治之后，在这位前将军的监督下，军队对政府的控制逐步减少、缅甸的民主化不断增加。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace laureate who spent 15 of 21 years under house arrest, is by far the country’s most popular politician, but she is barred by the Constitution from serving as president because her two sons have foreign citizenship, as did her late husband.
昂山素季是一位诺贝尔和平奖获得者，她在21年中有15年是在软禁下度过的，她是缅甸最更受欢迎的政治人士，但她被宪法禁止担任总统，因为她的两个儿子拥有外国国籍，她已故的丈夫也是外国籍。
Before the parliamentary session, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi released an open letter calling on people to support the election process and to be patient even though they might be disappointed that she would not be president. “This is a very important time for the country,” she said.
在联邦议会的大会上，昂山素季宣读了一封公开信，呼吁人民支持选举的过程，并呼吁他们保持耐心，即使他们对她不能成为总统可能会失望。“这是我国的一个非常重要的时刻，”她说。
During the election campaign last year, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi dismissed concern over her role in the new government, saying that she would be “above the president.” After her party’s landslide victory, she negotiated unsuccessfully with the military to set aside the constitutional ban so she could assume the office. The military’s parliamentary delegation has the votes to block any changes to the Constitution.
在去年的竞选中，昂山素季对关于她在新政府中的作用的担忧不屑一提，称她会位于“总统之上”。她所在的政党以压倒性多数获胜后，她与军方就搁置宪法禁令、使她能够出任总统的谈判失败。军方在联邦议会的代表团有足够的票数阻止任何对宪法的修订。
It is unclear whether Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is a member of Parliament, will take on a different role or title when the new government takes over.
目前还不清楚昂山素季是否会在新政府上任后有不同的作用或得到不同的头衔，她现在是联邦议会议员。
Mr. Htin Kyaw, a former director in the Ministry of Trade, went to school with Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi. His late father was a famous writer and poet, Min Thu Wun, who was also a prominent figure in the National League for Democracy. Mr. Htin Kyaw’s late father-in-law, U Lwin, was a co-founder of the party, and his wife, Daw Su Su Lwin, is a member of Parliament.
廷觉曾在贸易部担任主任，他和昂山素季是同学。他已故的父亲敏杜文(Min Thu Wun)是一位著名的作家和诗人，也是全国民主联盟的主要人物。廷觉已故的岳父尔温(Lwin)是该党的创始人之一，他的妻子苏苏尔温(Su Su Lwin)是联邦议会议员。
Two candidates were nominated Thursday by the minority Union Solidarity Development Party. A candidate from the military faction — a constitutionally guaranteed 25 percent of Parliament — has yet to be named.
在议会占有少数席位的联邦巩固与发展党周四提名了两名候选人。宪法保障在议会占有25％席位的军队派的候选人提名尚未出来。
The National League for Democracy’s other nominee Thursday was U Henry Van Thio, 58, an ethnic Chin member of Parliament, who is expected to become vice president. He is something of an anomaly as a Christian in a largely Buddhist nation and a former army major in a political party that has sought to wrest power from the military.
全国民主联盟周四提名的另一位候选人是58岁的亨利·范·迪欧(Henry Van Thio)，他是联邦议会中的一名钦族成员，他有望成为副总统。他在很大程度上是一个异类，在一个以佛教为主的国家，他是一名基督徒，在一个寻求从军人手中夺取权力的政党里，他是一名前陆军少将。