MANDALAY, Myanmar —Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, in her first act as Myanmar’s state counselor, said Thursday that she would seek to free political prisoners, including students, describing the issue as the top priority of her party’s new government.
缅甸曼德勒——昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)担任缅甸国家顾问后做的第一件事，就是在周四表示她将设法释放包括学生在内的政治犯，并将此问题列为缅甸新政府的首要任务。
Myanmar is holding more than 500 people who are considered political prisoners, most of whom have not faced trial. It was unclear how many students Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi was referring to, but dozens of students are facing trial for participating in protests.
缅甸现在拘押了500多名被认为是政治犯的人员，其中大部分都还在等待审判。目前还不清楚翁昂山素季提及的学生有多少名，但至少有数十名学生因参与抗议活动正面临审判。
She said that next week, when the country celebrates the start of the Burmese New Year, would be an appropriate time to release political prisoners. She did not say how many she hopes to free.
她表示下周缅甸开始庆祝新年时，将是释放政治犯的适当时机。但她并没有说自己希望释放多少名政治犯。
“In this time of the Burmese New Year, we will release political prisoners and activists and students who are facing charges as soon as possible,” she said in a statement released by her office.
“在缅甸新年之际，我们将尽快释放政治犯、活动人士和面临指控的学生，”她在其办公室发表的一份声明中说道。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Prize laureate and former political prisoner who spent 15 years under house arrest, took on the newly created post of state counselor this week in a move to get around a ban on her serving as the country’s president.
诺贝尔奖得主昂山素季同时也是一名被软禁了15年的前政治犯，于本周担任了新设职务国家顾问一职，此举是为了避开禁止她担任缅甸总统的法令。
The military, which drafted Myanmar’s Constitution, included a provision barring anyone from serving as president who has family members with foreign citizenship. Her children are British citizens, as was her husband.
缅甸军政府制定的宪法中一项条款规定，任何人只要其家庭成员中有人具有外国籍，即无资格担任总统。而昂山素季的丈夫与孩子都是英国人。
She said during last year’s campaign that she would serve “above” the president if voters chose her party, the National League for Democracy. Her party won by a landslide in November and holds large majorities in both houses of Parliament. She named her close ally, U Htin Kyaw, to serve as president.
她在去年的竞选活动中表示，如果选民选择了她的政党全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)，她本人的职位会“高于”总统。其领导的政党在11月赢得了压倒性的胜利，并在议会两院占据了大多数席位。她提名她的亲密盟友廷觉(Htin Kyaw)担任总统。
Most of the country’s political prisoners who were arrested under the military dictatorship have already been freed. The former president, U Thein Sein, an ex-general who stepped down last week, released more than 1,200 political prisoners during his five years in office.
在缅甸军事独裁统治时期被逮捕的政治犯大多数已经获释。上周卸任的前总统吴登盛(U Thein Sein)曾是一名将军，他在五年的任期内释放了超过1200名政治犯。
Myanmar still has 526 political prisoners, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a group that tracks the plight of jailed dissidents in Myanmar. About a hundred of them have been convicted and are serving prison sentences. But more than 400 others were arrested relatively recently and are awaiting trial.
根据跟踪缅甸被囚不同政见者困境的机构政治犯援助协会(Assistance Association for Political Prisoner)所说，目前缅甸仍然关押着526名政治犯。其中约100人已被定罪，正在监狱服刑。但其余400多人都是较近一段时期遭逮捕的，正在等待审判。
In her brief statement, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said there were three ways her government could release prisoners: a presidential amnesty under criminal law, a presidential amnesty under the Constitution, and the withdrawal of charges by prosecutors for those who have not yet been tried.
在她简短的声明中，昂山素季说她的政府可能通过三种方式释放政治犯：总统根据刑法大赦，总统根据宪法大赦，以及检察官撤销对还未审判的政治犯的指控。
The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said that all the prisoners could be freed through a grant of amnesty.
政治犯援助协会表示所有政治犯都可以通过特赦获释。
But it was unclear whether the military would attempt to block an amnesty or the dropping of charges for prisoners awaiting trial. The approval of the national security council, which is dominated by military appointees, is required for a presidential amnesty.
但目前还不清楚军方是否会试图阻止特赦或撤销对候审政治犯的指控。总统大赦必须经过由军方控制的国家安全委员会的批准。