YANGON, Myanmar — She is the former political prisoner whose party triumphed in elections last month. He is the commander in chief of the military that jailed her for the better part of two decades.
缅甸仰光——她曾是政治犯，但其领导的政党在上月的选举中胜出。他是军方最高指挥官，过去20年中的大部分时间，就是军方一直囚禁着她。
Their meeting on Wednesday as the two most powerful people in Myanmar was a crucial first step in the fragile transition from a military-backed government to one in which the military will share power with the democracy activists it once oppressed.
作为缅甸最有权势的两个人，他们周三的会谈是一场尚不明朗的过渡的关键一步。通过这场过渡，政府要从军方后台转向由军方与曾经受其压制的民主活动人士分享权力。
The talks between the leader of Myanmar’s democracy movement, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, and the commander in chief of the military, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, were the first face-to-face foray in what will surely be complex negotiations over how they will share power.
缅甸民主运动领袖昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)和军方总司令敏昂莱(Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing)之间的会谈，是双方首次面对面地就如何分享权力展开的较量。这些较量肯定是复杂的谈判。
The leaders offered only a vague outline of what was discussed at the one-hour meeting. “In line with the desires of the people, they agreed to cooperate on peace, the rule of law, reconciliation and the development of the country,” said a statement released by the office of the commander in chief.
两名领导人只是粗略地概括了他们在一个小时的会谈期间讨论的内容。“本着人民的期待，双方同意就和平、法治、和解及国家发展进行合作，”总司令办公室发表的一份声明说。
But the contours of the negotiations ahead of them are already coming into focus, including the existence of several so-called red lines, issues on which the military may be unwilling to compromise.
但接下来的谈判已经显现出大致的轮廓，其中包括存在几条所谓的红线，即军方可能不愿妥协的问题。
Although Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy, won a landslide victory in last month’s general elections, the military, which ruled Myanmar in one form or another for five decades, retains considerable power.
尽管昂山素季领导的全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)在上月的大选中以绝对优势获胜，但用这样或那样的方式统治了缅甸50年的军方，依然拥有大量权力。
The National League for Democracy will control a majority in Parliament and will have the right to choose the next president, but the military will control a quarter of the parliamentary seats and several important ministries, making it a strong partner in a shotgun political marriage.
全国民主联盟将是议会的多数党，并将有权选出下一任总统，但军方将控制议会四分之一的席位和多个重要部门。这使军方成为了一场闪电联姻中的强势一方。
A retired senior general said in an interview that the military had accepted the idea of a civilian government and was willing to relinquish power, but gradually and under certain conditions.
一名退役高级将领在接受采访时表示，军方接受了文官政府的想法，愿意放权，不过是逐步放权，并且有某些条件。
“They have an exit strategy,” the general said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “They will fade away from politics day by day.”
“他们有一个退出战略，”要求匿名介绍内部商议情况的这名将领说。“他们将逐渐淡出政治。”
That alone would be an extraordinary concession, given the history of last open election, in 1990, which Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party also won and which the military immediately annulled.
鉴于上一次公开选举的历史，单这一点就是非同寻常的让步。当年，昂山素季领导的政党同样赢得了选举，但军方立即宣布选举无效。
But the general added that the military had “interests to protect” and warned that “the incoming government cannot be overly rapid in its reforms.”
不过这名将领接着表示，军方有“要保护的利益”，并警告称“新一届政府的改革不能过快”。
The military has a multitude of business interests, including jade and ruby mines, a brewery, bus lines, tobacco, textiles and banks, some of which are owned collectively or by retired officers.
军方有大量商业利益，包括翡翠和红宝石矿、啤酒厂、公共汽车线路、烟草、纺织业和银行业。部分企业为集体或退役军官拥有。
Nay Zin Latt, a former army officer and government adviser, said the democracy movement and the military appeared to share a vision of the army withdrawing from politics and becoming a professional one in the style of Western armies. But there is disagreement over the time frame, he said.
前陆军军官、政府顾问奈津栗(Nay Zin Latt)表示，民主运动和军方似乎有一个共同的理想，希望军队淡出政治，成为像西方军队那样的专业力量。但他表示，双方在时间安排上存在分歧。
“Their mission is to become a professional army,” Mr. Nay Zin Latt said. “But it’s not easy. Habits are deeply rooted.”
“他们的愿望是成为一支专业的军队，”奈津栗说。“但这并非易事，积习难改。”
He described the military’s retention of 25 percent of seats in Parliament as “leverage.”
他称军方保留25%的议会席位是一种“砝码”。
“We need stability,” he said. “In America, you have spent over 200 years to get to where you are. This is the very beginning stage of our transition.”
“我们需要稳定，”他说。“在美国，你们用了200多年的时间达到目前的水平。而我们的过渡现在才刚开始。”
The military’s presence in Parliament appears to be one of several “red lines” where the military is not prepared to yield. Others, military officials have said, include reining in rebel ethnic armies, maintaining the military’s extensive business interests and retaining the military-imposed Constitution.
议会席位似乎是军方不打算妥协的几条“红线”之一。军方官员表示，其他红线包括控制民族武装、维护广泛的商业利益和保留由军方制定并颁布的宪法。
General Min Aung Hlaing has said the military will retain a considerable level of political power until it is satisfied that the country is at peace internally. Fighting between ethnic militias and government troops has flared in recent weeks in northern Myanmar, part of a civil war that has raged intermittently since the earliest days of independence from Britain more than six decades ago.
敏昂莱称军方将保留相当程度的政治权力，直到对内部和平程度满意。最近几周，缅甸北部民族武装和政府军之间战事激化。这是该国内战的一部分。缅甸的内战一直断断续续，最早可追溯到六十多年前该国从英国独立。
Power-sharing between ethnic areas and the central government may be one spot where Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s vision for the country is at odds with that of the army.
民族地区和中央政府分权，可能也是昂山素季和军方设想不一致的一个点。
Her party’s manifesto calls for a “federal union,” a system pursued by her father, Aung San, the country’s independence hero. In 1947, he signed a deal, known as the Panglong Agreement, giving ethnic minorities “full” autonomy in the administration of their own affairs. Ethnic groups accuse the military of having abandoned the agreement.
她的党派宣言呼吁建立一个“联邦”，这是她的父亲、缅甸独立英雄昂山希望实现的一个体制。1947年，昂山签署了一项协议，名为彬龙条约(Panglong Agreement)，授予少数民族管理自己事务的“完全”自主权。少数民族团体指责军方违反了这个协议。
What the party means by federalism is vague. But the idea that ethnic groups in the country’s resource-rich borderlands would obtain more autonomy has typically made the army uneasy. Top generals have advocated a more centralized political system.
该党所说的联邦制意思比较模糊。但是一想到少数民族团体将在该国资源丰富的边疆获得更大自主权，军队往往会感到不安。缅甸高级将领主张采用集权度较高的政治体制。
Another potential sticking point is Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s position in the next government. A provision in the Constitution bars her from becoming president because her husband and two children have foreign nationality. She has repeatedly said she plans to circumvent the Constitution by being “above” the president and choosing a proxy leader who answers to her.
另一个潜在问题是昂山素季在未来政府中的位置。宪法明令禁止她成为总统，因为她的丈夫和两个孩子是外国国籍。昂山素季曾多次表示，她将“高于”总统，通过选择一个听从她指挥的代理领导人来规避宪法。
But she also appears intent to continue her campaign to amend the Constitution. Doing so would require the consent of the army, which has effective veto power over amendments.
但她也显得有意继续开展修宪活动。这样做需要与军方达成共识，因为军方拥有否决修宪的权力。
In a country where the personalities of leaders are often more important than the institutions they lead, analysts say much was riding on the chemistry of the relationship between, as the Burmese would have it, the general and “the Lady.”
在缅甸，领导者的个性特质往往比他们领导的机构更加重要，分析师说，因此很多事情取决于将军和“夫人”之间的交情如何，就像缅甸人会说的那样。
“In Myanmar so much depends on personal relations,” said Thant Myint-U, a historian and adviser to the current government. “They had never had a private meeting before. Developing a good personal as well as working relationship will be very important.”
“在缅甸，私交是很多事情的关键，”缅甸现任政府顾问、知名历史学家丹敏-吴(Thant Myint-U)说。“他们以前从未进行过私人会晤。培养良好的私人和工作关系将会非常重要。”
As the general was driven off from his office, he turned to reporters.
当将军乘车离开办公室时，他转向记者。
“We had a good discussion, and everything is O.K.,” he said.
“我们已经商量好了，一切OK，”他说。