BANGKOK — For the first time since Myanmar’s military unleashed violence against Rohingya Muslims in August, Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate who heads the civilian government, on Thursday visited the state where the atrocities have been taking place.
曼谷——自缅甸军方8月对罗辛亚穆斯林发起暴力行动以来，领导缅甸文官政府的诺贝尔奖获得者昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)周四首次前往那个暴行不断上演的邦。
The United Nations and international rights groups have laid out evidence of an ethnic cleansing campaign across the northern part of the state, Rakhine. They say that hundreds, at least, have been killed, and that the majority of the Rohingya population has been driven into neighboring Bangladesh by the military’s use of arson, execution and rape.
联合国和国际人权组织都列出了该国若开邦北部各地存在种族清洗的证据。它们说，至少数百人被杀，并且多数罗辛亚人被军方的纵火、处决和强奸驱赶到了邻国孟加拉国。
The Myanmar government, however, says it is fighting Rohingya Muslim “terrorists” who launched attacks on security outposts, killing at least a dozen people. Members of Suu Kyi’s Cabinet maintain that not a single Rohingya has been killed by the Myanmar military.
然而，缅甸政府称此举是在打击对安全岗哨发起攻击，造成至少12人死亡的罗辛亚穆斯林“恐怖分子”。昂山素季领导的内阁成员坚称缅甸军方没有杀害一个罗辛亚人。
There is little overlap between the international and domestic narratives.
国际和国内叙事相差甚远。
One of the places Suu Kyi visited during her day trip to northern Rakhine was Taung Pyo, on the border with Bangladesh.
在为期一天的若开邦北部之行中，昂山素季视察的其中一个地方是与孟加拉国接壤的同漂(Taung Pyo)。
A Human Rights Watch investigation documented that parts of Taung Pyo were still burning in mid-September as Myanmar soldiers patrolled the village, despite the fact that Suu Kyi said that all “clearance operations” against militants had ceased Sept. 5.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)的一项调查证明，9月中旬，在缅甸士兵在该村巡逻时，该村的部分地方仍在燃烧，但昂山素季称，针对武装分子的“清除行动”已于9月5日停止。
While Suu Kyi, who was awarded the Nobel Prize as a political prisoner in 1991, controls the country’s civilian government, she has no authority over Myanmar’s military.
1991年，昂山素季以政治犯的身份获颁诺贝尔奖。尽管控制着缅甸的文官政府，但她对缅甸军方没有控制权。
Refugees from Taung Pyo said there were almost no Rohingya left in the community — had either bolted to Bangladesh, been killed by gunfire or been arrested.
来自同漂的难民说，村里几乎不剩罗辛亚人了，不是逃去了孟加拉国，就是中枪身亡或被捕。
Suu Kyi has repeatedly said that the international community should try to understand why some Rohingya have decided to stay in Rakhine, rather than flee to Bangladesh.
昂山素季反复表示，国际社会应该尝试理解为什么一些罗辛亚人决定留在若开邦，而不是逃往孟加拉国。
“I hope everything will go fine as local villagers handle the rebuilding process,” Suu Kyi told the residents of Pan Taw Pyin village. “We all have to try our best to live peacefully.”
“我希望在村民进行重建的过程中一切顺利，”昂山素季对潘托彬村(Pan Taw Pyin)的村民说。“我们都必须尽最大的努力平平安安地活着。”
But critics say Suu Kyi, in the most charitable interpretation of her actions, has allowed herself to be blinded to the realities of ethnic cleansing in Rakhine.
但批评人士称，即便是从最正面的角度解读昂山素季的行动，她也是在听任自己对若开邦的种族清洗现状视而不见。