Four years ago Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, abruptly canceled America’s biggest and arguably most important infrastructure project, a desperately needed new rail tunnel under the Hudson River. Count me among those who blame his presidential ambitions, and believe that he was trying to curry favor with the government- and public-transit-hating Republican base.
四年前，当哈得逊河道下亟需一条新的铁路隧道时，新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)却突然取消了这个美国最大的、也可以说是最重要的基础设施项目。一些人指责他野心勃勃地觊觎总统之位，坚信他这样做是为了讨好那些憎恨政府、憎恨公共交通的共和党死忠。我也有这样的看法。
Even as one tunnel was being canceled, however, another was nearing completion, as Spread Networks finished boring its way through the Allegheny Mountains of Pennsylvania. Spread’s tunnel was not, however, intended to carry passengers, or even freight; it was for a fiber-optic cable that would shave three milliseconds — three-thousandths of a second — off communication time between the futures markets of Chicago and the stock markets of New York. And the fact that this tunnel was built while the rail tunnel wasn’t tells you a lot about what’s wrong with America today.
尽管一个隧道项目被取消了，另一个却正在进入尾声：随着Spread Networks贯通宾夕法尼亚州的阿勒格尼山脉，该项目即将竣工。不过建设Spread隧道的初衷不是为了载客，甚至也不是为了运货；它是为了搭起一条光纤，可以把芝加哥期货市场和纽约证券交易所之间的通信时间缩减3毫秒（千分之3秒）。铁路隧道项目被取消了，Spread隧道却修建了起来，这个现象可以告诉你很多，让你知道如今的美国究竟出了什么问题。
Who cares about three milliseconds? The answer is, high-frequency traders, who make money by buying or selling stock a tiny fraction of a second faster than other players. Not surprisingly, Michael Lewis starts his best-selling new book “Flash Boys,” a polemic against high-frequency trading, with the story of the Spread Networks tunnel. But the real moral of the tunnel tale is independent of Mr. Lewis’s polemic.
谁在乎这3毫秒呢？答案是高频交易员，他们靠比同行快远远不到1秒的速度买入或卖出股票来赚钱。难怪在抨击高频交易的畅销新书《快闪小子》(Flash Boys)中，作者迈克尔·刘易斯(Michael Lewis)一开头就讲述了Spread Networks隧道的故事。但这个故事的真正寓意，却与刘易斯的抨击无关。
Think about it. You may or may not buy Mr. Lewis’s depiction of the high-frequency types as villains and those trying to thwart them as heroes. (If you ask me, there are no good guys in this story.) But either way, spending hundreds of millions of dollars to save three milliseconds looks like a huge waste. And that’s part of a much broader picture, in which society is devoting an ever-growing share of its resources to financial wheeling and dealing, while getting little or nothing in return.
想想吧。刘易斯把高频交易从业者描绘成恶棍，把那些试图阻止他们的人刻画为英雄，你可能会赞同他的立场，也可能不会（在我看来，这个故事里没一个好人。）但无论你赞同与否，花费数亿美元来节约3毫秒的时间听上去都是巨大的浪费。它属于一种更普遍的情形，即社会正在把越来越多的资源分配给金融投机交易，而从中得到的回报却寥寥无几，或者毫无回报。
How much waste are we talking about? A paper by Thomas Philippon of New York University puts it at several hundred billion dollars a year.
这种浪费到底有多大？纽约大学(New York University)托马斯·菲利波(Thomas Philippon)的一篇论文显示，每年浪费的金额约为数千亿美元。
Mr. Philippon starts with the familiar observation that finance has grown much faster than the economy as a whole. Specifically, the share of G.D.P. accruing to bankers, traders, and so on has nearly doubled since 1980, when we started dismantling the system of financial regulation created as a response to the Great Depression.
菲利波在论文的开头描述了一种常见现象：金融增长远远快于整体经济增长。具体来说，从1980年起，我们开始废除为防止“大萧条”重演而建立起的金融监管体系，银行家、交易员等一些人手中积累的国内生产总值(GDP)的份额增加了近一倍。
What are we getting in return for all that money? Not much, as far as anyone can tell. Mr. Philippon shows that the financial industry has grown much faster than either the flow of savings it channels or the assets it manages. Defenders of modern finance like to argue that it does the economy a great service by allocating capital to its most productive uses — but that’s a hard argument to sustain after a decade in which Wall Street’s crowning achievement involved directing hundreds of billions of dollars into subprime mortgages.
这些资金给我们带来了怎样的回报呢？就大家所知，回报很少。菲利波表示，金融业的增长远远快于它吸纳的储蓄和它管理的资产。现代金融的捍卫者喜欢说，它在经济中发挥了重大作用，因为它把资金分配给了生产力最高的地方——但是这种说法很缺乏说服力，因为在过去的十年里，华尔街的最高成就涉及到把数千亿美元引导到了次级抵押贷款上。
Wall Street’s friends also used to claim that the proliferation of complex financial instruments was reducing risk and increasing the system’s stability, so that financial crises were a thing of the past. No, really.
华尔街的朋友们也曾经声称，复杂金融工具的大量出现降低了风险，提高了系统的稳定性，使得金融危机成为过去。错，大错特错。
But if our supersized financial sector isn’t making us either safer or more productive, what is it doing? One answer is that it’s playing small investors for suckers, causing them to waste huge sums in a vain effort to beat the market. Don’t take my word for it — that’s what the president of the American Finance Association declared in 2008. Another answer is that a lot of money is going to speculative activities that are privately profitable but socially unproductive.
但是如果规模庞大的金融领域没有让我们变得更安全、更高效，那么它又在做什么呢？一个答案是，它正在把小投资者当傻瓜耍弄，让他们在战胜市场的徒劳努力中浪费大量金钱。你不用相信我，但这是美国金融协会(American Finance Association)会长2008年说的。另一个答案是，大量的钱流入了投机活动，这些活动让个人中饱私囊，对社会却毫无贡献。