KUNMING, China — The group of about 10 attackers, dressed in black and wearing cloth masks, arrived in front of Kunming Railway Station in southwest China on Saturday night and began slashing at employees and commuters, sometimes repeatedly plunging their long knives and daggers into people too stunned or slow to flee.
中国昆明——周六夜间，约10名穿着黑衣、戴着面罩的歹徒来到位于中国西南部的昆明火车站，持刀砍向那里的工作人员和乘客，有时还会把长长的匕首和尖刀反复刺向因震惊或动作迟缓而未能逃走的人们。
By the time the police shot dead four assailants and ended the slaughter, the square and ticket sales hall at the station were strewn with bodies and moaning survivors in pools of blood. According to the state news media, 29 people were killed and 143 wounded. The police captured one of the assailants but several others were said to be still at large. Witnesses said that at least one of the attackers was a woman.
警方当场击毙了四名歹徒，结束了此次屠杀，那时候，火车站的广场和售票厅已经躺满了尸体，幸存者则躺在血泊中呻吟。据国家新闻媒体报道，共有29人死亡，143人受伤。警方捕获其中一名歹徒，但其他数人据称仍在逃亡。目击者称，至少有一名歹徒是女性。
The attack, which the authorities said was carried out by assailants from the Xinjiang region in China’s far west.
官方称，此案中的袭击者来自位于中国偏远西部的新疆地区。
Although no group has claimed responsibility for the attack, officials on Sunday described the killings as an act of terrorism planned and perpetrated by separatists from Xinjiang. According to the official Xinhua news service, President Xi Jinping deplored the attack and called for “an all-out effort to punish the terrorists.”
还没有任何组织宣称对此次袭击负责，但官方已于周日表示，此次袭击是由来自新疆的分裂势力策划和执行的恐怖袭击。据官方通讯社新华社报道，国家主席习近平对此次袭击表示了谴责，并呼吁“依法从严惩处暴恐分子”。
Residents in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan Province, said they were stunned that the city, best known as a warm, leafy tourist destination, could suffer such a spasm of bloodshed.
昆明是云南省首府，气候温暖、植被繁茂，是著名的旅游胜地。当地居民说，这里竟然会发生这样的流血事件，他们感到非常震惊。
“It happened too suddenly,” Du Zhenwu, a 48-year-old resident who lives near the train station, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think anybody saw it coming.”
“事情来得太突然了，”住在火车站附近的48岁居民杜振武（音译）在电话采访中说。“依我看，这样的事情谁也想不到。”
The rampage in Kunming transfixed the nation, with television broadcasts, websites and newspapers offering gruesome pictures and harrowing descriptions of the mayhem. On Sunday, China’s Communist Party leadership vowed to take tougher measures against the perpetrators of such violence. “This gang of terrorists were cruel without any humanity,” Meng Jianzhu, the party leader who oversees domestic policing and security, told Phoenix Television, a Hong Kong-based broadcaster. “They completely abandoned their conscience. We must strike hard against them according to the law.”
昆明的暴力事件让整个中国震惊，电视、网站和报纸都提供了关于此次袭击的可怕画面，并对此案进行了令人痛心的描述。周日，中国共产党领导层誓称要对此类暴力事件的凶手采取更严厉的措施。“这帮恐怖分子毫无人性，惨无人道，”负责国内治安和安全的共产党领导人孟建柱在接受香港凤凰卫视的采访时说。“他们丧尽天良，我们必须依法严厉打击。”
Throughout Sunday hundreds of people lined up at blood donation centers across the city, and tales of tragedy and heroism were shared online. At one tiny restaurant to the west of the railway station, the owner reportedly shepherded 200 people to safety during the attack, according to China News Service. There were so many people inside, the report said, that people were standing on tables.
周日全天，数百人在昆明的各个献血中心排队献血，一些悲剧及英雄故事在网上广为流传。据中国新闻社报道，火车站西边一家小饭馆的老板在袭击期间庇护了200人。报道称，屋里人太多，有的人只好站在桌子上。
As night fell, hundreds of people flocked to the station to light candles and lay out white chrysanthemums, a traditional symbol of mourning in China. “I just can’t imagine who would want to kill innocent people in such a cruel fashion,” said Yang Wei, a 50-year-old truck driver.
夜幕降临，数百人来到火车站，点亮蜡烛，摆上白菊，这种花在中国是哀悼的象征。50岁的卡车司机杨威（音译），“谁会想要这么残忍地杀害无辜民众，我真的想不出来。”
As he spoke, a group of railway workers gathered up the belongings of victims. Among the items were colorful backpacks, the overstuffed plastic bags typically carried by migrant workers, and a child’s bicycle with training wheels.
他说话的时候，一群铁路员工正在收拾遇难者的行李。其中有一些彩色背包，以及通常属于农民工的塞满东西的编织袋，还有一辆装有辅助轮的儿童自行车。