TOKYO — August is always a solemn time in Japan. It is the month when we remember the double destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and Japan’s defeat in World War II. This year, however, we find ourselves not only remembering history, but witnessing it: The nation has been shaken by a recent video message from Emperor Akihito in which he hinted that he wished to abdicate.
东京——在日本，8月一直是个庄重的时期。这个月里，我们纪念广岛和长崎被毁，以及日本在二战中战败。然而今年，我们发现自己不仅在铭记历史，也在见证历史：日本被明仁天皇最近发布的一则视频讯息撼动，他在视频中暗示自己想要生前退位。
The emperor did not use the word “abdication” in his address, and he tried to sound as though the change he was suggesting lay within the bounds of the ordinary. He is getting too old, he suggested, to participate in public affairs; he can no longer travel the way he once did. At the same time, he seemed to indicate that the official duties of the emperor, a symbol of the state, are too important to be curtailed.
明仁天皇在讲话中并没有明确使用“退位”一词，他试图传达出的意思是，自己提出的变化是普通人身上也会发生的。他表示，自己年纪太大，无法再参与公共事务；他无法再像过去那样出行。与此同时，他似乎也暗示，作为国家象征，天皇的官方职责太过重要，不能削弱。
The vagueness of the message was intentional. After all, the Japanese Constitution forbids the emperor from engaging in politics, and expressly stating a desire to abdicate would constitute an unambiguously political act. And yet the manner in which Akihito made his will known — by directly addressing the Japanese people — seemed calculated to produce the sort of shock that it did. It was the first time since 1945 that an emperor has gone over the government’s head, as it were, to explain his own thinking: The last time this occurred was at the end of World War II when Emperor Akihito’s father, Emperor Hirohito, made a radio address announcing Japan’s surrender to the Allied forces.
讯息的模糊是故意为之。毕竟，日本宪法禁止天皇参与政治，而清楚地表达退位的意愿将构成明确的政治行为。不过，明仁表达意愿的方式——直接向日本民众讲话——似乎是为了故意制造出它所达到的那种令人震撼的效果。这是自1945年以来日本天皇第一次这样越过政府首脑，表达自己的想法：上一次出现这样的情况是在二战结束时，明仁的父亲裕仁天皇通过广播发表讲话，宣布日本向盟军投降。
The extraordinary nature of the gesture raises the question, “Why now?” In part, no doubt, the timing is a sign that Emperor Akihito, as he nears the end of his life, is growing concerned about the future of the imperial system. He became emperor in 1989 after months of intense media attention over his father’s failing health, and during such periods, “society comes to a standstill,” he said in his address. He was still in mourning when he assumed his new duties — “a very heavy strain,” and one from which he said he hoped emperors could be spared in the future.
这一不同寻常的举动引发了疑问，“为什么是这个时候？”选择这个时间点无疑在某种程度上显示出，随着他走向生命的尽头，明仁天皇对皇室制度的未来愈发感到担忧。他在1989年成为天皇，继位前几个月，媒体集中报道了他父亲的健康状况每况愈下。他在此次视频演讲中表示，在这样的时期，“社会陷入停顿。”承担起新职责时——“一个非常沉重的压力”——他还处在哀悼情绪中。他说希望未来的天皇可以免于承受这种压力。
Perhaps Emperor Akihito also knows that at some point Japan will need to allow women to be emperors again, as was the case as far back as the sixth century, and he may want to help spark a serious reconsideration of the current system as a means of ushering in this change.
或许明仁天皇也知道，在某一刻日本将需要再次允许女性做天皇，就像早在六世纪时那样。他可能想帮助激发人们认真地重新考虑目前的制度，以此促成这种改变。
But none of this is a complete answer to the question “Why now?”
但所有这些都无法完整地回答这个问题：“为什么是现在？”
Japan’s national broadcasting organization NHK reported on July 13 that Emperor Akihito wished to abdicate. The announcement came just days after the ruling Liberal Democratic Party routed the opposition in elections for the upper house of Parliament — reaching, with its coalition party Komeito, the two-thirds majority necessary for the National Diet to submit proposed constitutional revisions to a national referendum. One cannot help suspecting that the emperor’s desire to abdicate is connected to the determination of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government to rewrite the Constitution — especially since one of its proposed changes would redefine the role of the emperor, changing it from a purely symbolic post back to head of state, as under the Meiji Constitution of 1890. The practical implications of that change are unclear, but it would be a symbolic repudiation of postwar ideals.
日本官方传播机构NHK在7月13日报道，明仁天皇希望退位。宣布这一消息的几天前，执政的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)刚刚在国会参议院选举中大胜反对党——与其盟友公明党(Komeito)一起获得三分之二的多数席位，足以让国会将修改宪法的提议诉诸全民公投。人们不禁怀疑，天皇退位的意图是否与首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的政府修改宪法的决心有关——尤其是它提出的修改意见之一就是重新定义天皇这一角色，将它从一个纯粹象征性的职位重新改为国家元首，就像1890年明治宪法规定的那样。目前还不清楚这样的改变到底意味着什么，但它将是对战后意识形态的一种象征性否定。
Some experts have suggested that the Abe administration might have secretly pressured NHK to report on the emperor’s desire to step down. Current law does not allow abdication, so it offers no guidance about the role of a retired emperor. Emperor Akihito’s implicit request can probably only be addressed through a constitutional amendment, and taking that up could give the Abe administration an opportunity to push forward with other revisions at the same time.
一些专家表示，安倍政府可能秘密向NHK施压，要求其报道天皇退位的意愿。现行法律不允许天皇生前退位，因此也没有关于退位天皇所扮演角色的指导。大概只能通过宪法修正案来处理明仁天皇的含蓄请求，而提出相关宪法修正案可能会让安倍政府有机会同时推进其他条款的修订。
The more persuasive interpretation, to my mind, is that Emperor Akihito has been so deeply disturbed by the Abe administration’s efforts to transform the Constitution — not only to politicize the role of the emperor, but also to dispense with the so-called peace clause that prohibits Japan from engaging in war — that he is trying to delay their progress, perhaps until after the end of Mr. Abe’s term in 2018. In other words, Emperor Akihito may be hoping to raise another constitutional issue, and one more pressing than the others: Because of his age and who he is, it would have to be taken up first.
不过，在我看来，更有说服力的解读是，明仁天皇一直深受安倍政府为修改宪法而采取的各种行动的困扰——修宪的目的不仅是赋予天皇这个角色政治色彩，还包括废除禁止日本参战的所谓的和平条款。他是在努力拖延他们的进程，或许想拖到2018年安倍任期结束以后。换句话说，明仁天皇可能是希望提出另一个宪法问题，而这个问题比其他的更紧迫：鉴于他的年龄和身份，不得不首先着手解决这个问题。
There is no way to know which of these possibilities is correct. One thing is certain, however: Emperor Akihito’s bold, if necessarily ambiguous, expression of his desire to abdicate has for the first time allowed him to become more important than his father in the popular imagination. After many years of being considered a “living god,” Emperor Hirohito was compelled to become a “symbolic emperor.” Now Emperor Akihito, in one unexpected step and of his own volition, has laid new claim to his status as Japan’s first truly postwar emperor.
外界无从知道这些可能中哪一个是对的。但有一点可以肯定：在民众的心目中，明仁天皇勇敢——虽然采用了必要的含混说辞——表达自己退位意愿的举动，首次让他变得比他父亲更重要。多年被当做“现人神”后，其父裕仁天皇被迫变成了“象征性的天皇”。现在，通过一个出人意料的自发举动，明仁天皇重新彰显了自己作为日本第一位真正的战后天皇的地位。
Ever since Emperor Akihito ascended to the throne, he has striven to show his respect for the Constitution and has made clear his commitment to peace and international cooperation. If he succeeds in his attempt to allow Japan’s emperors to abdicate — overturning the longstanding conception that the emperor is “sacred and inviolable” — he will have demonstrated that emperors today are like any other citizen, subject to the law and the democratic ideals of the postwar order.
自登上皇位后，明仁天皇一直力争显示对宪法的尊重，并明确表示自己致力于和平与国际合作。如果允许日本天皇生前退位的尝试取得成功——推翻由来已久的天皇“神圣不容侵犯”的概念——他将证明，如今的天皇和其他任何一名公民一样，都须遵守法律和构成战后秩序的民主理念。