MINNEAPOLIS — A few months ago, Michael N. Felix’s phone started ringing again after four years of silence. Mr. Felix is a land broker whose business dried up when the housing market crashed. But with home prices now rising faster than anyone expected, builders are again looking for what, in the land trade, is referred to as dirt.
明尼阿波利斯——几个月前，迈克尔·N·费利克斯(Michael N. Felix)的电话在沉寂了四年之后又开始响个不停。费利克斯是一名土地经纪人，他的生意在房地产市场崩盘以后也随之枯竭。但如今，随着房地产价格以高于所有人预期的速度不断增长，建筑商们又开始寻找土地了。
Already, developers report that the cost of land in the most desirable areas is double what it was two years ago. At least three golf courses in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area are being carved into millions of dollars’ worth of residential lots. The race has even sent builders back to outer suburbs like Otsego, 30 miles from downtown Minneapolis, where bulldozers are laying the groundwork for four-bedroom houses with three-car garages, in subdivisions bordered by cornfields.
开发商已经表示，在最优越的地段，土地价格达到了两年前的两倍。在明尼阿波利斯-圣保罗地区，至少有三个高尔夫球场正在被划分成价值数百万美元的一块块住宅地块。这个趋势甚至让建筑商回到了偏远的郊区，比如奥齐戈。奥齐戈距离明尼阿波利斯市中心有30英里，在那里玉米地中间的一个个小块土地上，数台推土机正在为建造拥有三个车库和四个卧室的房子做准备，这些建筑区域周围都是玉米地。
“Lot buyers and sellers!!!!!!!!” Mr. Felix’s Web site reads. “It is time to get moving again....!”
“地块的买家和卖家们！！！”费利克斯的网站上写着，“到了再次出手的时候了……！”
Or past time. The latest land rush is in full swing, as developers realize that they have failed to feed the zoning, permitting and mapping pipeline, which can take months or years to turn raw fields into buildable lots. They are realizing another thing, too: they have been sorely missed.
或者早就该开始了。新一波土地热正如火如荼地展开，而开发商意识到，他们未能在划区、批准和规划过程中坚持不懈，但这些是把田地变成可以施工的地块的必要步骤，需要花上几个月或者几年的时间。他们还意识到另外一件事：人们非常想念他们。
“For the first time, I’ve seen cities want to work to help figure it out, rather than doing us a favor all the time to let us develop,” said Scott Carlston of Hunter Emerson, a development partnership. Hunter Emerson won a victory when the city of Eagan, a suburb of Minneapolis, allowed Parkview Golf Club to be converted into a high-end single-family subdivision.
“第一次有城市想要帮助我们，而不是让我们自己开发”，土地开发合伙企业亨特爱默生(Hunter Emerson)的斯科特·卡尔斯顿(Scott Carlston)说。明尼阿波利斯的卫星城伊岗市允许将花园景观高尔夫球俱乐部(Parkview Golf Club)变成用于建造高端独户住宅的地块时，该公司算是打了场胜仗。
The hunt for dirt is not limited to the Twin Cities. After builders across the country spent decades feeding acre after acre of raw land into the maw of demand for single-family homes, the housing crash left them with a land surplus so large that lots were selling for pennies on the dollar. At the peak of supply, in 2009, there were enough lots to last almost eight years, according to MetroStudy, a firm that tracks housing data. Now there is less than four year’s worth, and only about a quarter of that is in the more desirable A- or B-rated locations.
对土地的寻找不仅限于双子城（指明尼苏达州明尼阿波利斯和圣保罗及周边的区域——译注）。由于全国的建筑商在几十年的时间里不断用土地满足对独户住宅的需求，在房地产市场崩盘之后，他们手中剩下了大量土地，以至于一些地块一度被以极其低廉的价格出售。根据追踪房地产数据的MetroStudy公司的数据，在2009年供应高峰时，地块的数量足够支撑差不多八年。现在，剩下的土地仅能支持不到四年，而且只有四分之一位于较为优越的A级或者B级地段。
“We have gone from a situation where five years ago everyone was saying, ‘There’s too many lots,’ to today, builders are literally crying on our shoulder saying, ‘There’s not enough lots. We can’t find any,’” said Bradley F. Hunter, the chief economist at MetroStudy.
MetroStudy的首席经济师布拉德利·F·亨特(Bradley F. Hunter)说，“五年前，人人都在说‘地块太多了’，而现在，建筑商几乎是在我们肩膀上哭诉，‘土地不够啊，根本找不到地’。”
The shortage of lots is slowing the housing recovery, the National Association of Home Builders said last week. In August, 59 percent of builders surveyed said lot supply was low or very low, the association said. Housing is a critical driver for the economy, not just because of the jobs and supplies needed to build homes but also the appliances and furnishings that new occupants buy.
全美房屋建筑商协会(National Association of Home Builders)上周说，地块短缺拖累了房地产市场复苏的速度。该协会说，在8月份的调查中，有59%的建筑商认为，目前地块的供应很少或非常少。房地产是经济的关键动力，不仅仅是因为建造房屋需要人力和建材，还因为新房的房主需要购买电器和家具。
At the peak of the housing boom, builders were finishing more than 1.6 million single-family houses a year. That number plunged to less than half a million during the recession. This year, the industry is on track to complete more than 570,000 homes, still substantially below the level considered necessary to replace aging homes and provide for new households. A return to more normal rates of construction would substantially lift the economy’s anemic growth rate of about 2 percent over the last year.
在房地产繁荣到达顶峰时，建筑商每年可以建造超过160万套独户住宅。在经济衰退时期，这个数字下降到了不到50万。今年，该行业将建成超过57万套住宅，仍然大大低于让新房屋取代老房屋所需要的速度。如果能回到更加正常的建设速度，将大大提振经济增速。去年的经济增长乏力，速度仅为2%左右。
Mr. Carlston said some cities in the Twin Cities area had adjusted their rules to allow fewer parking spaces or smaller lots. Otsego has lowered some of its development fees and allowed a developer to change an approved plan so that a partly built town house project could be finished with more salable detached homes. Rick Packer, a land development manager for Centra Homes, said some suburbs were relaxing requirements that homes be made of brick or stucco.
卡尔斯顿说，双子城地区的一些城镇已经调整了规定，减少停车面积，或者允许开发更小的地块。奥齐戈下调了一些针对房地产开发的税费，并允许开发商变更已经获批的方案，这样一来，即便是一个排屋的项目已经建了一半，仍然可以将其改造成更容易销售的独立住宅。Centra Homes的土地开发经理里克·帕克(Rick Packer)说，一些郊区正在放松对住宅必须采用砖结构或灰泥结构的要求。
Even the Sierra Club, which once placed Minneapolis among the top 10 sprawl-threatened cities, has backed off a bit. An annual bike ride by the local chapter, once known as the “Tour de Sprawl,” has been given a less pejorative name and refocused to include not just threatened green space but what the group considers model development and transportation projects.
塞拉俱乐部(Sierra Club)曾经把明尼阿波利斯评为无计划扩张最严重的十大城市之一，现在这个组织也作出了一些让步。这个团体在当地的分会举行的年度自行车骑行活动曾经叫做“环烂摊自行车赛”(Tour de Sprawl)，现在这项活动已经换了一个贬义没那么强的名字，而且也调整了视角，不仅专注受到威胁的绿色空间，也开始关注在该组织看来可以作为典范的开发项目和交通项目。
Mayor Mike Maguire of Eagan, a co-chairman of the Regional Council of Mayors Housing Initiative, said one reason his city had approved a land use change for the golf course was that so little new housing was built in the last few years. “When there’s no new development, you have stock that’s increasingly out of date and that tends to bring your home values down,” he said. “That was one of the things we were hearing back from Realtors, was they had people who wanted to move to Eagan but couldn’t find the home they wanted.”
市长居屋行动地区理事会(Regional Council of Mayors Housing Initiative)的联席主席、伊岗市市长迈克·马奎尔(Mike Maguire)说，伊岗市之所以同意变更高尔夫球场的土地用途，一个原因是过去几年新建的房屋太少了。“没有新的开发项目时，你手里的房产会越来越过时，这往往会让房子贬值。”他说，“我们从房地产经纪人那里听说，有人想要搬到伊岗，但是找不到合意的房子。”
Last year, Hunter Emerson agreed to pay $8.6 million for the golf course, wagering that the city would approve the land use change. The partnership sold the property to a national home builder for $13.1 million, Mr. Carlston said. The houses will cost from $400,000 to $700,000, he said.
去年，亨特爱默生公司同意斥资860万美元购买这个高尔夫球场，押注该市会批准变更土地的用途。卡尔斯顿说，这家公司把这处资产以1310万美元的价格卖给了一家全国性的建筑商。他说，这个地块上的房屋价格将在40万美元到70万美元之间。
The excess left from the boom — land in various stages of development ranging from untouched to what builders call PVC farms, named for the hard plastic plumbing pipes that, with electrical lines, were virtually all that was on the lots — is quickly being absorbed. Developers have gone from buying foreclosed acreage from banks to buying from farmers, family trusts, manufacturers and even homeowners with outdated homes on single lots.
繁荣时期留下的地块很快被吸收利用——这些土地的开发状态处在各种阶段，有的完全没有动过，有的则被建筑商称为PVC农场，因为这些地块上只有硬塑料水暖管道还有电线。开发商过去会从银行购买止赎的土地，现在已经开始从农户、家族信托、制造企业购买土地了，甚至还会从一些旧房产在单独地块上的房主手中购买土地。
“What we’ve seen is the inner ring of the suburbs, all those areas have come back,” said Rod Just of Key Land Homes, a Twin Cities builder. “The outer ring, they’ve taken just a little bit longer because of gas prices, but they’re going to come back.”
双子城的建筑公司Key Land Homes的罗德·贾斯特(Rod Just)说，“我们已经看到，周边城市内环的所有区域都回到了开发状态。因为汽油价格的缘故，外环花的时间稍微长了一点，但是它们也会。”
For builders, there is even a sense of déjà vu. “The new lots that are coming out,” Mr. Just said, “are almost the prices that they were in 2005 when everything crashed.”
对于建筑商来说，甚至有一种似曾相识的感觉。“正在涌现出的新地块，”贾斯特说，“差不多就是2005年大崩盘前的价格。”