An American dentist’s recent killing of a lion named Cecil in Zimbabwe sparked public outrage, but it largely obscured the fact that big game hunting is also a big business in which animals are regularly pursued.
最近，一个美国牙医在津巴布韦猎杀了一只名叫塞西尔的狮子，激起了公愤，但罕为人知的是，事实上大型动物狩猎活动已是一项大型产业，动物们常常这样被追捕。
Several hunting outfits in the United States help organize safari hunts in countries like South Africa and Zimbabwe, where licensed hunting is legal. These safari hunts cater to a small but wealthy clientele of big-game hunters, who bring back more than 400 lion trophies — heads and furs — into the United States each year, according to the Humane Society, a conservation group. More than 750 elephants meet a similar fate.
美国一些狩猎团体会组织游客到南非和津巴布韦之类可以持证合法狩猎的国家进行游猎旅行。这类旅行专门接待小型的富人狩猎团，猎杀大型动物，根据动物保护组织人道促进会(Humane Society)的数据，这些人每年将400多头狮子的战利品（包括头颅和皮毛）带回美国。还有750多头大象亦遭受到同样的命运。
Big-game hunters operate in a separate world from weekend deer hunters in the United States. Plane tickets, specialized gear and weapons, safari guides and astronomical hunting fees determined by what kind of animal you want to kill – a lion costs more than $50,000, experts say – keep the pastime out of reach for most hunters.
大型动物狩猎和美国的周末猎鹿有着完全不同的运作方式，需要机票、特殊装备和武器、狩猎向导；此外还要支付天文数字的狩猎费，不同动物所需缴纳的费用也不一样，专家说狩猎一头狮子要交五万美元以上的费用，因此这不是大多数猎人能够负担的娱乐项目。
“Typically they are fairly wealthy individuals,” said Steve West, a well-known hunting advocate who appears on a reality show on the Outdoor Channel and runs a tourism company that plans hunts. “You’re going to get a far more elite kind of person who books the average trip than in the U.S.”
“他们大都是非常有钱的人，”史蒂夫·韦斯特(Steve West)是著名的狩猎活动倡导者，他在户外频道的真人秀上亮相，并经营一家帮客户筹备狩猎的旅游公司。“和美国的狩猎旅行相比，预订这种狩猎的真的都是高端精英人士。”
Commercial trophy hunting is allowed in more than a dozen African countries, with most hunts taking place in South Africa, Tanzania, Botswana and Zimbabwe. Americans make up around 60 percent of big-game hunters active on the continent, activists say.
有十几个非洲国家都允许商业化的战利品狩猎，大多数狩猎者选择南非、坦桑尼亚、博茨瓦纳和津巴布韦。活动人士称，在非洲，美国人占大型动物狩猎者的60%左右。
Mr. West’s company is one of many that help American hunters plan trips overseas — offering everything from advice on weapons to guidance on what to expect once you’re out in the wild.
韦斯特的公司是众多帮助美国猎手筹划海外狩猎游的公司之一，向客户提供各种各样的服务，从武器方面的建议到野外环境指导。
Mr. West has been on “hundreds” of hunts, he said, including more than two dozen trips that have taken him overseas, where he has trekked with the Kalahari bushmen in Namibia and hiked in Argentina. (Mr. West’s TV program shows him as he kills an animal and then poses by the corpse.)
韦斯特说，自己曾经参与过“数百次”狩猎，其中包括二十多次海外狩猎，他曾在纳米比亚与喀拉哈里沙漠中的布什曼人一道长途跋涉，也曾在阿根廷徒步（他在电视节目杀死一只动物，并展示猎物的尸体）。
Big game hunters, he said, whether they kill anything or not, are first and foremost world travelers with a sense of adventure.
他说，不管到最后有没有杀死猎物，这些大型动物狩猎者们都是漫游世界的旅行者中最具冒险精神的。
“Some of the trips that I remember more than any others are the ones where we didn’t get anything, but had big adventures,” he said. Argentina is a particular favorite. “I just fell in love with their culture,” he added.
“让我更难忘的旅程，是那些我们虽然什么都没猎到，但却经历了极大危险的旅程，”他说。他尤其喜欢阿根廷。“我热爱他们的文化，”他补充说。
Mr. West sets up as many as 50 overseas hunts a year for well-heeled travelers, many of them in Africa. He said that his clients are financially savvy and have a deep commitment to nature and wildlife.
韦斯特每年都要为富有的旅行者们安排50场之多的海外狩猎，大都是在非洲。他说，自己的客户都很有经济头脑，对自然和野生动物承担极大义务。
“These are salt-of-the-earth people,” he said. “They may be wealthy, but people who hunt consider themselves conservationists.”
“他们都是社会中坚，”他说。“他们可能很有钱，但他们都认为自己是自然资源保护者。”
Sabrina Corgatelli, an American hunter who was attacked on social media last week after she posted pictures of herself posing with a giraffe, a wildebeest and other animals she shot and killed on a legal hunt in South Africa, echoed that sentiment in an interview on the “Today” show.
上个星期，美国猎人塞布丽娜·科加特里(Sabrina Corgatell)因为贴出自己和亲手猎杀的长颈鹿与非洲牛羚等动物的合影，在社交网络上备受攻击，这些动物都是她在南非合法猎杀的，她在“今日秀”的访谈中赞同了韦斯特的说法。
“Everybody just thinks we’re coldhearted killers, and it’s not that,” she said. “There is a connection with the animal, and just because we hunt them doesn’t mean we don’t have a respect for them.”
“所有人都觉得我们是冷血杀手，并非如此，”她说。“我们和动物之间有感情，我们猎杀它们，并不意味着我们就不尊敬它们。。”
At the end of the day, Mr. West argues, hunters are realists who understand that an exotic or endangered animal is more likely to be protected from extinction if they are assigned a financial value.
说到底，韦斯特说，这些猎人们都是现实主义者，他们明白，当动物们同经济价值挂钩时，只有那些奇特或是濒危的种群才更有可能不遭到绝种的命运。
African trophy hunting may be an expensive hobby that only a few can afford, but it is true that it is also a big business. In an op-ed piece written in 2011 that appeared in The Daily Caller, a conservative website, Larry Rudolph, then president of Safari Club International, and Joseph Hosmer, president of the Safari Club International Foundation, argued that hunting was “good for Africa’s lions.” And, they said, humans benefited, too.
非洲战利品狩猎可能是一项只有少数人才能负担的昂贵爱好，但它确实也是一项很大的产业。2011年，在自然资源保护网站“每日呼唤者”(The Daily Caller)上发表的一篇专栏文章里，国际游猎俱乐部(Safari Club International)当时的主席拉里·鲁道夫(Larry Rudolph)与国际游猎俱乐部基金会(Safari Club International Foundation)的主席约瑟夫·霍斯默(Joseph Hosmer)说，狩猎“对非洲的狮子有益”。他们说，也对人类有利。
“Revenues from hunting generate $200 million annually in remote rural areas of Africa,” they wrote. Much of that money goes to pay for park rangers and other forms of wildlife management that is a boon to the animals, they argued. “This revenue gives wildlife value, and humans protect the revenue by protecting the wildlife.”
“狩猎每年为非洲边远乡村带来两亿美元收入，”他们写道。这些钱主要用于国家公园护林人，以及各种野生动物管理，从而造福动物们，他们说。“这些收益为野生动物赋予价值，于是人们会通过保护野生动物来保护这些收益。”
On Friday, the governments of South Africa and Namibia endorsed that view. Both countries condemned the recent decision by Delta Air Lines, United Airlines and other carriers to ban hunting trophies. They said this would hurt the hunting business and deprive their countries of money for wildlife management and community development.
星期五，南非与纳米比亚政府对这一观点表示赞同。两国都谴责达美航空公司(Delta Air Lines)、美国联合航空公司(United Airlines)等公司禁运狩猎战利品的规定。两国政府说，这会破坏狩猎产业，剥夺了两国用于野生动物管理及社区发展的经费。
That is an argument that opponents of hunting, like the Humane Society, reject.
人道促进会等反对狩猎的组织拒绝接受这一观点。
Instead, anti-hunting activists argue for the benefits of other forms of tourism. The local economy in rural Namibia, for example, may be better served by busloads of tourists toting cameras instead of rifles.
反对狩猎的活动人士认为，其他形式的旅游也可以带来收益。比如说，许许多多带着照相机来的旅客可能比带着来复枪的猎人更能推动纳米比亚乡村经济的发展。
“Tourism based on living animals brings in far more money than hunting does,” said Teresa Telecky, a wildlife expert at the Humane Society and a critic of trophy hunting. “There are far more people coming to Africa for tourism than for trophy hunting, and that provides people with real livelihoods — working in restaurants, hotels, the tourism industry — and that is far more important than this theory that hunting revenue will trickle down to normal people.”
“建立在活生生的动物基础上的旅游远比狩猎更能赚钱，”人道促进会的野生动物专家与战利品狩猎的抨击者特蕾莎·特莱基(Teresa Telecky)说。“去非洲旅游的人要比去非洲狩猎的人多得多；而且旅游业会给当地人带来真正就业机会——他们可以在餐厅、酒店和旅游行业工作——这比说狩猎所得的收入将会流入普通人手中，使当地人受益的理论重要得多。”