One of the more curious rulings the Supreme Court handed down last month, overshadowed by its landmark health care and same-sex-marriage decisions, concerned a death-row inmate named Hector Ayala. In 1989, Ayala was charged with participating in the execution-style murder of three men in an auto-body shop in San Diego, an apparent result of a heroin deal gone bad. During jury selection for the trial, prosecutors struck all seven of the prospective jurors who were black or (like Ayala) Hispanic.
美国最高法院在6月份做出的关于医保和同性婚姻的裁决具有划时代意义。可是它们却分散了人们对高院同期做出的另外一些奇怪裁定的关注。这其中一项裁决涉及一各名叫海克特·阿亚拉(Hector Ayala)的死囚犯。1989年，海克特由于在圣地亚哥的一家汽车配件商店参与行刑式开枪谋杀三位男性而被起诉。这起枪杀事件的起因看起来是由于双方海洛因交易没有谈拢。在选择审讯陪审团的过程中，公诉人剔除了预选陪审员里所有的7位黑人和拉丁裔（阿亚拉就是拉丁裔）人选。
The Supreme Court has ruled that systematically excluding jurors on the sole basis of race violates the Constitution, so Ayala’s lawyer protested. The judge asked the prosecution for an explanation for the strikes in a private session and deemed it legitimate — without letting the defense hear or challenge the rationale. Ayala was convicted and sentenced to death.
高院之前曾裁决，单纯因为种族原因而要求陪审员全面回避是违背宪法的。阿亚拉的律师提出了抗议。在一次私下会谈中，法官要求公诉方解释他们为什么剔除那7位预选陪审员 。法官认定公诉方的解释合法，但却没有让辩方听取解释，也没有给辩方抗辩的机会。阿亚拉被判处死刑。
On appeal, the California Supreme Court said the trial judge had erred but deemed the error “harmless,” letting Ayala’s conviction and sentence stand. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit disagreed, found that Ayala’s trial was unfair and ordered the state to either retry or release him. When the case reached the United States Supreme Court this year, it mostly garnered attention for a short concurring opinion in which Justice Anthony M. Kennedy denounced solitary confinement, the form of imprisonment Ayala has endured for most of the past 25 years. But Kennedy joined the court’s four other conservative justices in ruling against Ayala in June. The majority opinion chided the Ninth Circuit for misunderstanding the role of a federal court. A federal court, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. wrote, was merely supposed to stand guard against “extreme” judicial malpractice by state courts — not “substitute its own opinions for the determination made on the scene by the trial judge.”
阿亚拉向加州最高法院提出了上诉。加州最高法院维持了原判，说审判法官虽然有误，但该失误“无关大碍” 。美国联邦第九巡回上诉法院却有不同的意见。他们认为对阿亚拉的审判不公正，要求州法院或是重审，或是放人。今年美国最高法院受理了此案，主要由于安东尼 ·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)法官撰写一份简短的同意意见书，这个案子引起了关注。肯尼迪法官在意见书中谴责了单人牢房监禁——阿亚拉在过去25年的大部分时间里遭受了这种形式的监禁。但是肯尼迪法官和最高法院的其他四位保守法官在六月份多数通过了裁决（美国最高法院一共有九位法官——译注），驳回了阿亚拉的上诉。多数意见书指责第九巡回上诉法院没有正确理解联邦法院的职责。小萨缪尔·A·阿里托(Samuel A. Alito Jr.)法官在意见书中指出，联邦法院的职责只是确保州法院不犯下“极端”的司法不当行为，而不是“用自己的意见来取代审判法官在审判现场做出的判决决定”。
But how, exactly, do you draw the line between the two? This is a fight that is waged over and over again when federal judges try to grant relief to prisoners convicted in state courts — which handle a vast majority of criminal cases — under circumstances of questionable fairness. It’s also a fight that federal judges increasingly lose in the Supreme Court — to the point that some of them are now raising the alarm that the law is systematically failing to provide the necessary safeguards against miscarriages of justice. Congress, they say, should fix it.
但是，如何准确判断联邦法院是否越权呢？这个问题一次又一次地引起论战，尤其是在联邦法官质疑审判过程中的公正性，而试图给在各州法院获罪判刑的犯人减免判刑的时候。（各州法院审理绝大多数刑事案件。）在这场论战中，联邦法官们在最高法院那里越来越处于劣势，以致于现在他们中有人提出警告，说相关法律有系统性的缺陷，不能在有必要时防范司法的不公。他们呼吁国会解决这个问题。
This state of affairs is the product of a semi-obscure 1996 law called the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act. Passed with bipartisan support and signed by President Bill Clinton in the wake of the Oklahoma City bombing, the law was based in part on Newt Gingrich’s “Contract With America” and was designed to limit appeals of death-penalty sentences brought via the “Great Writ,” as it’s known, of habeas corpus. As a legal concept, habeas corpus dates to medieval England. The Latin translates literally as “you have the body.” The idea is that a prisoner has a right to petition a court to show that he or she is being held illegally.
问题到了这一局面，都是由于在1996颁布的一部相对鲜为人知的法案——《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》。这部在俄克拉玛州爆炸案发生后不久由克林顿总统签署的法案得到了两党的支持 。法案部分基于时任众议院议长的纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)题为《与美国的契约》的宣言，目的是限制通过援引被称作“大令状”的人身保护状来对死刑判决进行上诉。人身保护状做为一个法律概念可以追溯到中世纪的英格兰。拉丁文 “habeas corpus”的字面意思是“汝有自身”。这个法律概念的意思是说，被监禁者有向法庭申诉自己遭受非法监禁的权利。
Habeas rights aren’t entirely unshakable; President Abraham Lincoln famously suspended them during the Civil War, and whether or not a similar suspension was warranted in terrorism cases after the Sept. 11 attacks was central to the challenges brought by detainees held in Guantánamo Bay. But these are exceptional circumstances; for more prosaic criminal proceedings, states provide post-conviction processes for demonstrating procedural failings in a trial. After that, a prisoner may bring a habeas petition to a federal court, which has traditionally had the power to overturn a state conviction. “Habeas lies to enforce the right of personal liberty,” Justice William Brennan wrote in 1963; “when that right is denied and a person confined, the federal court has the power to release him.”
人身保护状所涵盖的权利并不完全是不可变通的。众所周知，在美国内战期间，亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)总统取消了这些权利；而在9·11恐怖袭击后，是否也应该同样取消这些权利是关塔那摩湾被拘留人员问题的争议核心。但是这两者都是极端情况。对于寻常的刑事案件，各州都在判决后提供流程，以给被控方机会来证明审判过程中有程序性错误。在这一流程之后如果被控方还不服，可以向联邦法院提出人身保护状的申诉，而联邦法院传统上有驳回州法院判决的权力。美国最高法院法官威廉·布雷南(William Brennan)在1963年写道：“人身保护状的作用就是确保人身自由权。当这一权利被剥夺，有人遭到监禁时，联邦法院有权释放他。”
Supporters of this approach point out that state judges, who often face re-election bids, may feel more pressure to push habeas aside in the name of being tough on crime than federal judges, whose lifetime appointments insulate them from politics. State courts also have far higher caseloads, leaving them with less time and fewer resources to spend on habeas petitions, which often leads to summary denials.
支持这一观点的人们指出，比起任期终身、相对不受政治影响的联邦法官来说，州法院的法官们往往面临着竞选连任的压力。他们会以严厉打击犯罪的名义置人身保护状于不顾。比起联邦法院，州法院也要审理多得多的案件，这使得它们的工作人员没有时间，也没有资源来处理人身保护状申诉。这样一来，人身保护状申诉往往还没有经过审理就会被直接驳回。
Conservative critics, on the other hand, have generally bristled at this federal oversight. They point out — as Republican congressional supporters of the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act did in the 1990s — that the additional means of appeal the procedure provides can add years to the process. Many states don’t provide free counsel for habeas petitions unless the death penalty is involved (and sometimes not even then). That leaves courts to sort through tens of thousands of filings written by prisoners representing themselves every year.
持保守观点的人们却对联邦法院对州法院的这一监督权力感到不安。和九十年代支持《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》的共和党国会议员一样，他们指出人身保护状所提供的额外上诉机会会使诉讼过程延长好几年。除非有死刑判决，许多州都不给人身保护状申诉提供免费律师（有些时候即使有死刑判决也不提供）。这使得法院每年要处理成千上万份由犯人自己写的申诉。
The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act changed the balance of state and federal power over habeas petitions, by stipulating that a federal court may step in only if the previous proceedings in state court “resulted in a decision that was contrary to, or involved an unreasonable application of, clearly established federal law” or “was based on an unreasonable determination of the facts in light of the evidence presented in the state court proceeding.” But over the past two decades, the Supreme Court’s unsparing interpretation of this language has become an enormous source of frustration on the federal bench — to the point that two influential judges on the Ninth Circuit bench, the liberal Stephen Reinhardt and the more conservative Alex Kozinski, have each recently called for its demise. They argue that the law, as interpreted by the court’s conservative majority, trips up federal judges who try to undo unjust convictions, rendering them powerless to address procedural unfairness — and, at worst, preventing them from granting a potentially innocent person a new trial or release, or even stopping his or her execution.
《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》改变了州法院和联邦法院之间在人身保护状申诉问题上的权力平衡。该法案规定，只有当州法院审理过程“导致与已确立的联邦法律背道而驰的判决结果，或是审理过程不合理地运用了联邦法律”，或是“判决结果是基于对呈堂证据不合理的事实裁定时”，联邦法院才能介入。但是过去20年来，最高法院对这些字句不留余地的解释引起了联邦法院法官们的很大不满。最近，第九巡回上诉法院的两位颇有影响力的法官——持自由派观点的斯蒂芬·莱因哈特(Stephen Reinhardt)和比较保守的艾利克斯·科辛斯基(Alex Kozinski )——都呼吁废除这一法案。他们认为，经由最高法院保守派大多数的阐释，该法案成了试图纠正不公正判决的联邦法官的绊脚石。在这一阐释下，联邦法官没有权力问询审理过程中的不公正；最糟糕的是，这种阐释阻止了联邦法官要求重审或释放一个有可能无辜的人，或是叫停对他/她执行死刑。
In a spring article in The Michigan Law Review, Reinhardt writes that the court has fashioned “a twisted labyrinth of deliberately crafted legal obstacles that make it as difficult for habeas petitioners to succeed in pursuing the writ as it would be for a Supreme Court justice to strike out Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle in succession.” The maze has expanded since Alito succeeded Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in 2006, moving the court to the right on criminal justice, among other issues. Over the course of the court’s 2007-13 terms, Reinhardt found that the Supreme Court had ruled against prisoners in all but two of the 28 habeas petitions it had considered.
在春季刊的《密歇根法律评论》的一篇文章中，莱因哈特写道，最高法院“有意制造法律障碍，建造出了一个扭曲的迷宫，使得人身保护状申诉很难成功，就如同一位最高法院法官连续击败贝博·鲁斯(Babe Ruth)，乔·迪马吉奥(Joe DiMaggio)和米基·曼陀尔(Mickey Mantle)这些棒球明星那样几乎没有可能。”在2006年阿里托继任桑德拉·戴·奥康纳(Sandra Day O’Connor)后，最高法院在刑事司法和其他问题上趋于保守，这个迷宫变得更大了 。莱因哈特发现，最高法院在2007年到2013年之间一共受理了28件人身保护状申诉，这其中26件都遭到了驳回。
Judge Kozinski, for his part, attacks the law in a preface to The Georgetown Law Journal’s Annual Review of Criminal Procedure, which is remarkable in the breadth of its criticism of the American criminal justice system. Kozinski, a Reagan appointee, has voted to uphold many criminal penalties, including death sentences. But viewing the law from the perspective of the federal bench, he writes, “we now regularly have to stand by in impotent silence, even though it may appear to us that an innocent person has been convicted.”
科辛斯基法官在给《乔治城大学法律期刊》的《年度刑事诉讼评论》写的前言中也抨击了《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》。这篇文章的非凡之处在于它对美国刑事司法制度批评的广度。科辛斯基是里根总统任命的。对于许多刑事判刑，包括死刑，他都曾经表决维持原判。但是他从一位联邦法官的立场出发评论《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》。他写道：“我们现在不得不经常无能为力地保持沉默，即便我们认为被判刑的人可能是无辜的。”
By way of example, Kozinski points to the Ninth Circuit’s 2006 review of the conviction of Shirley Ree Smith, who was sentenced to 15 years to life after she was found of guilty of shaking her 7-week-old grandson, Etzel Glass, to death in 1996. There was no evidence that Smith had previously mistreated Etzel in any way. And while he had subdural bleeding in his brain, it was minimal, and only one of the three symptoms classically associated with shaken-baby syndrome, a diagnosis that has become increasingly controversial.
科辛斯基提到了一个例子。第九巡回上诉法院在2006年复审了对雪莉·利·史密斯(Shirley Ree Smith)的判决。1996年，史密斯被判摇晃七周大的外孙艾泽尔·格拉斯(Etzel Glass)致其死亡而有罪，被判处15年的监禁。并没有证据表明史密斯之前以任何方式虐待过艾泽尔。尽管他有硬脑膜下出血，但是出血量很小，而且这只是“摇晃婴儿综合征”三个典型病征之一。而“摇晃婴儿综合征”这一诊断本身也越来越有争议。
The California Supreme Court declined to review Smith’s case. When it reached the Ninth Circuit, the three judges who reviewed her habeas petition said they approached it “with a firm awareness of the very strict limits that the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act places” on federal courts. Still, the Ninth Circuit judges looked at new medical evidence that called into doubt the validity of Smith’s conviction, found that “there has very likely been a miscarriage of justice in this case” and released her from prison, where she had already spent 10 years. In 2011, the Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit, over a strong dissent from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg (joined by two other justices), saying that the appeals court had run afoul of the law. The following year, Gov. Jerry Brown commuted Smith’s sentence to time served.
加州最高法院拒绝复审史密斯的案子。案子到了第九巡回法院那里，三位复审史密斯人身保护状申诉的法官说他们处理这个案子的时候“清楚了解《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》对联邦法院的严格限制。”尽管如此，第九巡回上诉法院的法官们审视了新的医学证据。这些证据对史密斯判决的有效性提出了质疑。法官们发现“这件案子里很可能有司法不公”，他们释放了史密斯，而她已经被囚禁了10年。2011年，最高法院推翻了第九巡回上诉法院的判决(鲁斯·巴德·金斯博格[Ruth Bader Ginsburg]法官和其他两位法官提出了异议)，理由是上诉法院违背了法律。2012年，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)为史密斯减刑至已服刑期，她不必继续服刑。
The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act is also at the heart of one of the most disputed death-penalty cases of the last decade. Troy Davis was convicted in Georgia of killing an off-duty police officer who came to the aid of a homeless man in a Burger King parking lot. After the Georgia courts denied Davis’s appeals, he went to the federal courts with a habeas petition, describing new evidence of his innocence: Seven of the nine eyewitnesses who testified against Davis at trial had recanted, and new witnesses implicated someone else, whom the police ruled out as a suspect early in their investigation. Procedural rules barred Davis from bringing this evidence on appeal. The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit ruled that he could not have a hearing for his new evidence in federal court, either.
《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》也是过去10年中最富争议的死刑案之一的核心问题。特洛伊·戴维斯(Troy Davis)在佐治亚州被判死刑。一位下了班的警察在一家汉堡王停车场里试图保护一位遇袭的无家可归者时遇害。戴维斯被指控在现场杀害了这位警察，并被判有罪。佐治亚州法院拒绝审理戴维斯的上诉后，他向联邦法院进行了人身保护状申诉。他提出了新证据证明自己的无辜：九位出庭作证目击人都做出了对戴维斯不利的证词，现在他们中的七位都撤回了证词。新的证人指出另有嫌疑人，但是此人在警察调查的早期就被排除了嫌疑。程序上的规则禁止戴维斯在上诉中使用这些新证据。美国第十一巡回上诉法庭也裁决联邦法院不能听取他的新证据。
In this case, the Supreme Court did step in and order such a hearing. “Imagine a petitioner in Davis’s situation who possesses new evidence conclusively and definitively proving, beyond any scintilla of doubt, that he is an innocent man,” Justice John Paul Stevens wrote. But the decision prompted a dissent from Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, that includes this protest: “This court has never held that the Constitution forbids the execution of a convicted defendant who has had a full and fair trial but is later able to convince a habeas court that he is ‘actually’ innocent.”
在这个案子中，最高法院确实进行了介入，下令对新证据举行听证。最高法院法官约翰·保罗·斯提文斯(John Paul Stevens)写道：“想象一下如果有人和戴维斯处境一样，他有新证据可以确凿无疑地证明自己的无辜。”但是安东宁·思科利亚(Antonin Scalia)法官和克莱伦斯·托马斯(Clarence Thomas)法官却不同意高院大多数通过的裁决。他们抗议道：“在受到仔细公正的审判后，即便被定罪判刑的犯人进行人身保护状申诉，说服法庭他‘其实’是无辜的，本法院也没有先例，裁决宪法可以禁止对他依法执行死刑判决。”
As many commentators have pointed out, this statement is both true and stone cold. “The proper question is, and always should have been, whether the detainee has a constitutional right to be free,” Reinhardt writes of habeas corpus. But 19 years of Supreme Court decisions based on the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act have fundamentally narrowed the scope of habeas review, from a fight over the merits of a claim of innocence or fairness to one over narrow process issues: Has the state time limit for filing a habeas petition passed? Is the petition barred by some other rule? This is what the federal courts now spend their time parsing.
许多评论都指出，这一陈述虽然真实但是却冷酷无情。莱因哈特在写到人身保护状时说：“正当的问题是——也应该总是——宪法是否给予被拘留者自由权利。”但是过去19年来，最高法院基于《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》做出的裁决从本质上限制了人身保护状申诉的复审。从前这类复审调查被判人是否有罪，司法是否公正，而现在却变成了狭隘的对程序性问题的追究：人身保护状申诉的提出有没有超过各州所规定的时效？有没有别的法规禁止申诉的提出？联邦法院现在就把时间花在分析研究诸如此类的问题上。
It is no surprise that the Supreme Court’s interpretation of the law has lowered the rate of success for habeas petitions. But it has also failed at its stated aim of reducing time-consuming appeals. According to a 2007 study by Nancy J. King, Fred L. Cheeseman II and Brian J. Ostrom, the time courts spend processing habeas cases has actually increased on average. “To the extent that [the law’s] provisions were designed to streamline the overall processing of individual cases, that result has not been achieved,” the authors concluded.
最高法院对《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》的解释降低了人身保护状申诉的成功率，这是意料之中的。而最高法院想要减少耗时上诉的目的却没有达到。南希·J·金(Nancy J. King)、弗雷德·L·齐思曼二世(Fred L. Cheeseman II)和布莱恩·J·奥斯特罗姆(Brian J. Ostrom)的一项2007年研究表明，法院花在人身保护状申诉上的平均时间反而有所增加。他们总结到：“如果说法案条款是为了简化个案审理的流程而设立，那么这一目的没有达到。”
John H. Blume, a Cornell law professor who has been tracking the law’s effects since its inception, once argued that it “has been less ‘bite’ than ‘hype.’” Now he agrees with Reinhardt and Kozinski, he told me in an email, calling the Supreme Court’s expansion of the law “agenda-driven judicial policy-making.”
约翰·H·布鲁姆(John H. Blume)是康奈尔大学的法学教授。从法案起草阶段，他就一直在关注其产生的影响效果。之前他说法案“噱头”的因素多于实际作用。但是他现在却同意莱因哈特和科辛斯基的观点。在一封给本报记者的电邮里，他说最高法院扩大了法案的适用范围，这是“有政治动机驱动的司法决策行为”。
This is a moment of increasing bipartisan interest in criminal justice reform, including sustained attention from President Obama and regret from Bill Clinton about mass incarceration. About the role the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act plays, Kozinski reaches a clear and dramatic conclusion. It “is a cruel, unjust and unnecessary law that effectively removes federal judges as safeguards against miscarriages of justice,” he writes. “It has resulted and continues to result in much human suffering. It should be repealed.”
刑事司法改革在现阶段引起了两党越来越多的关注。奥巴马总统对大规模监禁问题表达了持续的关注，比尔·克林顿也对这一问题表示了失望。对于《反恐怖主义暨有效死刑法》，科辛斯基的结论毫不含糊，颇为震撼。他写到：“该法案残酷，不公，也没有必要。它的实际效果是使联邦法官们没有权力防范司法不公。该法案已经、也会持续给人们带来痛苦和折磨。该法案应该被废除。”