VLADIVOSTOK, Russia — “Ilya! Ilya!” came the chant from the crowd of thousands in the central square here on a recent night. Clad in a retro-futuristic silver suit, Ilya Lagutenko, this city’s hometown star and the frontman of one of the country’s most popular bands, Mumiy Troll, flipped his hair and sang, in English and Russian, about love, sailors and other matters of local pride.
俄罗斯符拉迪沃斯托克——“伊利亚！伊利亚！”，几天前的一个晚上，符拉迪沃斯托克中央广场上的数千人高声呼喊。来自本地的明星伊利亚·拉古坚科(Ilya Lagutenko)身穿一套复古未来主义的银色套装，甩了甩头发，开始用英语和俄语歌演绎爱情、水手以及当地人引以为傲的各种东西。他是俄罗斯最受欢迎的乐队之一“红色野人”(Mumiy Troll)的主唱。
The rock show’s setting — in this formerly closed-off Soviet military enclave — is one of the last places you would expect to find a posse of multicultural indie rockers. But last week, Vladivostok, a port town in Russia’s Far East, morphed into a kind of South by Southwest on the Sea of Japan. Over four days, more than 40 acts, mainly from Russia and Asia, played free shows in clubs, parks and the main square, taking bows across from an imposing memorial dedicated to “Fighters for Soviet Power.”
这里是一座已经废弃的前苏联军事基地，很难想象会有一群文化背景各异的独立摇滚歌手出现于此进行摇滚乐演出。但就在上周，俄罗斯远东港口城市符拉迪沃斯托克摇身一变，成为濒临日本海的西南偏南（South by Southwest，简称SXSW）。在四天的时间里，主要来自俄罗斯和亚洲的40多个乐团在俱乐部、公园和大广场上免费演出，在距离高大的远东苏维埃政权战士纪念碑的不远处，接受观众的掌声。
This was V-Rox, billed as the first rock festival of its kind in Russia. The similarity to SXSW, the expansive festival that helped put Austin, Tex., on the map as a destination for creative types, was intentional, said Mr. Lagutenko, who dreamed up V-Rox.
这就是V-Rox音乐节，被标榜为俄罗斯首个此类摇滚音乐节。构想出V-Rox的拉古坚科说，它与SXSW的相似之处是有意而为之的。SXSW规模宏大，使得主办地德克萨斯州的奥斯汀成为创意人士集结的圣地。
Its presence here speaks to the reach of an Internet-bred musical culture that mints earnest rock stars and connects hip-hop heads from Brooklyn to Shanghai. Fans arrived here from Ukraine and Siberia, and members of panel sessions came from across the globe. Vladivostok, which 25 years ago didn’t allow visitors, was, for a few days at least, an international artistic beacon.
V-Rox出现在符拉迪沃斯托克，体现了互联网滋养下的音乐文化影响之广。这种文化塑造出货真价实的摇滚明星，将布鲁克林和上海的骨灰级嘻哈爱好者联系在了一起。乐迷从乌克兰和西伯利亚远道而来，参加讨论会的成员则来自世界各地。25年前还严禁外人参观的符拉迪沃斯托克，至少在那么几天里，成为了国际艺术领域的灯塔。
A growing number of such festivals show how far fans whose musical appetite has been stoked by online listening and social media are willing to travel for a memorable offline experience. Other examples include Iceland Airwaves, in Reykjavik; the Midi showcases across China; and Traenafestival, on Nordic islands around the Arctic Circle.
新一代乐迷的音乐口味是由在线收听和社交媒体培养出来的，而日益增多的此类音乐节彰显出他们为了获得难忘的线下体验愿意跑很远的路。其他的例子还有雷克雅未克的冰岛电波音乐节(Iceland Airwaves)、中国各地举办的迷笛音乐节(Midi showcases)，以及在北极圈附近的岛屿上举办的特赖纳音乐节(Traenafestival)。
“Whatever is happening in Russia’s music industry, it’s so similar to whatever happens in China, in Korea,” Mr. Lagutenko, 44, said backstage before his show. “I’m talking to any small or big artist, independent or corporate. Right now, all over the world, the ideas are the same.”
“俄罗斯音乐行业发生的任何事情，都跟中国和韩国没什么两样，”演出前，44岁的拉古坚科在后台说。“我和任何大小艺人、独立的，还是大公司的艺人，都会进行交流。现如今，全世界的想法都一样。”
Roland Swenson, a founder and the managing director of SXSW, Austin’s $200 million economic and marketing engine, sees that pattern in the plethora of copycat festivals. “I get a call almost every week from some city somewhere that wants to start an event like SXSW,” he said.
SXSW给奥斯汀带来价值2亿美元(约合12.2亿元人民币)的经济与营销效应。SXSW的创始人兼执行主管罗兰·斯温森(Roland Swenson)在泛滥的跟风音乐节中也看到了这种态势。“我几乎每周都会接到某国某地的电话，希望能开办一个与SXSW类似的活动。”
There were practical and economic goals in creating V-Rox, too. Mr. Lagutenko’s hope was that bringing it to Vladivostok, a shrinking city of less than 600,000 bordered by China and a ferry ride away from Japan, would help it become a gateway to the Asia-Pacific region, a hope that has also been expressed by the Putin administration. 
创办V-Rox也有其现实的、经济的意图。日益萎缩的符拉迪沃斯托克人口不到60万，与中国毗邻，可乘渡船抵达日本。拉古坚科希望，把音乐节带到这里将促使其成为通往亚太地区的大门。普京(Putin)政府也表达过这种期望。
Though the Kremlin has been increasingly intolerant of political dissent, whether it comes packaged in pop culture or not —  the activists of Pussy Riot being but one example — V-Rox and its mostly apolitical musicians seem to have escaped judgment so far.
尽管克里姆林宫越来越容不下政治异见。不论它们是否以流行文化作为包装——Pussy Riot的活动人士只是其中一例——迄今为止，V-Rox及其大多不问政事的音乐人似乎逃脱了审查。
The city was behind V-Rox, buying lights and sound equipment, and providing security. Unsmiling policemen in peaked caps guarded the main stage. Other financial help came from sponsors like S7 Airlines, based in Siberia, which flew in guests free (albeit with a layover in Novosibirsk).
市政府对V-Rox予以了支持，出资购买灯光和音响设备，还提供安保。戴着尖顶帽的警察不苟言笑地守护在主舞台的旁边。剩下的资助来自西伯利亚的S7航空(S7 Airlines)等赞助商。该航空公司免费将客人送到此地（尽管途中在新西伯利亚短暂停留）。
The mayor, Igor Pushkarev, introduced Mumiy Troll’s performance himself, and on Monday, he pronounced V-Rox a hit, saying that 30,000 people attended its events, although that number wasn’t independently verifiable. Organizers also said that 25,000 people watched a live stream.
市长伊戈尔·普什卡雷夫(Igor Pushkarev)亲自将“红色野人”引荐上台，并在本周一宣布V-Rox大获成功。他宣称有3万人参加了活动，不过这一数字没有得到独立验证。组织方也称，有2.5万人观看了现场直播。
Into the mix of Russian acts, V-Rox brought artists representing a range of styles: No Brain, a Korean punk band; Emufucka, Japanese electronica; and a Singaporean rapper and D.J., Mark Bonafide and Andrew Chow. (The sole American, Julien-K, is best known for writing a hit for the ’90s rap-rockers Korn.) Though the bills were unfamiliar, locals turned out. “I’m pro these kind of concerts,” Elena Kuzmina, 49, a postal worker, said as she walked through the square on Saturday. A Friday show on the beachfront drew retirees and teenagers, both sets dancing bravely to a local punk act.
除了不同的俄罗斯组合，V-Rox还吸引了各种风格的艺人，比如韩国朋克乐队“无脑”(No Brain)、日本电音制作人Emufucka，以及新加坡说唱歌手“善意马克”(Mark Bonafide)与DJ安德鲁·周(Andrew Chow)的组合。（唯一的美国组合是Julien-K，他们最出名的是为上世纪90年代的说唱摇滚乐队科恩[Korn]写了一首大热歌曲。）尽管曲目都不为当地人所知，但他们还是参加了活动。上周六，49岁的邮政职工叶连娜·库兹明娜(Elena Kuzmina)走过广场的时候说，“我支持这种音乐会。”周五在海边举行的一场演出同时吸引了退休人员和青少年，两群人都随着一个本地朋克组合的表演肆意舞蹈。
For the artists, the draw is clear: They need the festival platform to build the exposure and connections that record labels used to offer. “In the industry today,” Mr. Lagutenko said, “there aren’t big companies that can right away put you on the map, because they don’t have the resources like that anymore.”
对艺人而言，其吸引力是显而易见的。他们需要音乐节的平台来提高曝光度并建立人脉，而这些东西以前是由唱片公司来提供的。拉古坚科说，“今天的音乐行业，不存在大公司马上把你捧红这种事，因为它们不再具备那种资源了。”
For music insiders, V-Rox provided the thrill of the truly undiscovered. “It’s a city I’ve never heard of, and it’s all bands that I don’t know — which is great,” said Alan Miller, a co-founder of Filter, the music magazine, who came to be on a panel at V-Rox.
对业内人士而言，V-Rox提供了一种货真价实的新鲜与刺激。前来参与V-Rox讨论会的《Filter》音乐杂志的联合创始人艾伦·米勒(Alan Miller)说，“这座城市我以前都没听说过，乐队也都不认识，真是太棒了。”