For years, President Bill Clinton was the best friend Donald J. Trump always hoped to have.
比尔·克林顿总统(President Bill Clinton)好多年来一直是唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)总是希望得到的最好的朋友。
When scandal engulfed Mr. Clinton’s White House, Mr. Trump leapt to the president’s defense. “He’s probably got the toughest skin I’ve ever seen, and I think he’s a terrific guy,” Mr. Trump told CNN.
当克林顿的白宫陷入丑闻时，特朗普挺身而出为总统辩护。特朗普对CNN说，“他可能有我所见过的最厚的脸皮，我认为他是一个了不起的家伙。”
Then there were Mr. Trump’s pitches to the former president to settle in a gilded Trump building in Manhattan when he and Hillary Clinton left the White House. They moved to Westchester instead. His overtures for them to vacation at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., were also rebuffed. The Clintons preferred the Dominican Republic.
后来，当比尔和希拉里·克林顿(Hilary Clinton)离开白宫时，特朗普还向这位前总统兜售过位于曼哈顿的富丽堂皇的特朗普大厦，希望他们能在那里定居。不过，克林顿夫妇搬到了威彻斯特。特朗普还建议克林顿夫妇到他位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的“临海旁湖”(Mar-a-Lago)别墅假期，也被拒绝了。克林顿夫妇更喜欢去多米尼加共和国。
When Mr. Clinton had trouble joining a conservative Westchester golf club, Mr. Trump boasted that he welcomed the former president to a newly built Trump National Golf Club, a five-minute drive from the Clintons’ Chappaqua, N.Y., home.
当比尔·克林顿想加入威彻斯特的一个保守的高尔夫球俱乐部而遇到麻烦时，特朗普向人炫耀说，他把这位前总统欢迎到新成立的特朗普全国高尔夫俱乐部中来，这个俱乐部离克林顿夫妇在纽约查帕阔的家只有五分钟的车程。
“He’s a great gentleman, a good golfer and a wonderful guy,” the real estate developer said of Mr. Clinton, who, in reality, is a so-so golfer known for taking mulligans.
“他是个杰出的君子、优秀的高尔夫球手，也是个不错的家伙，”这位房地产开发商提到比尔·克林顿时说，不过在现实中，克林顿的高尔夫球打得不怎么样，以一杆没中、被让挥二杆而闻名。
In the past week, any semblance of a friendship between Mr. Trump and Bill Clinton came to an ugly end as the former president and his wife’s presidential campaign found themselves in a muddy battle over sexism with the Republican candidate who has upended this election cycle with his insults and attacks.
在过去的一周，特朗普与比尔·克林顿之间的任何友谊表象以丑陋的方式结束了，这位前总统和他夫人的总统竞选队伍发现，他们与共和党候选人特朗普陷入了一场有关性别歧视的混战，特朗普已经靠侮辱和攻击颠覆了这轮总统竞选。
“If Hillary thinks she can unleash her husband, with his terrible record of women abuse, while playing the women’s card on me, she’s wrong!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Monday.
特朗普周一在Twitter上写道，“如果希拉里认为，她和我玩女权这张牌时，可以让有虐待女性的糟糕记录的丈夫帮忙，她就大错特措了！”
The criticism of Mr. Clinton’s personal life comes as Mrs. Clinton is increasingly relying on the former president, mentioning him in almost every speech as she praises his economic record. But Mr. Trump’s attacks on him are now rippling through the race, with other candidates and even a prominent newspaper columnist suggesting that Mr. Clinton’s sexual history is fair game.
对比尔·克林顿个人生活的批评，出现在希拉里越来越多地倚赖这位前总统之际，几乎每次演讲中，她都提到比尔，称赞他执政期间的经济记录。但是，特朗普对比尔·克林顿的攻击正在对竞选活动产生影响，其他候选人、甚至还有一位著名的报纸专栏作家也在暗示，提及比尔·克林顿的性史是公平游戏。
“This works for Trump because it reinforces what his most ardent supporters believe to be his greatest strength,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican communications strategist. “He will say things that no one else will say but that need to be said.”
“这手很适合于特朗普，因为这强化了他最热心的支持者认为的特朗普的最大优势，”共和党一名媒体战略家凯文·马登(Kevin Madden)说。“他愿意说没人愿意说的话，而这些话有说的必要。”
On Monday, Mr. Clinton will hold two organizing events for Mrs. Clinton in New Hampshire — his first solo outing on the campaign trail in a state where he remains widely popular and where polls show Mrs. Clinton slightly trailing Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
下周一，比尔·克林顿将为希拉里在新罕布什尔州组织两场活动，这是在这轮竞选中，他第一次在这个州单独活动，比尔·克林顿在新罕布什尔州仍非常受欢迎，而那里的民调显示，希拉里受欢迎的程度略微落后于佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)。
Mr. Trump’s turn against the former president started last week when Mrs. Clinton, in response to Mr. Trump’s use of a crude sexual reference to describe her loss to Barack Obama in 2008, accused him of having a “penchant for sexism.”
特朗普转为攻击前总统是从上周开始的，上周，希拉里在回应特朗普使用粗俗语言形容她2008年输给贝拉克·奥巴马一事时，谴责特朗普有“性别歧视的嗜好”。
On Saturday, Mr. Trump said on Twitter: “Hillary Clinton has announced that she is letting her husband out to campaign but HE’S DEMONSTRATED A PENCHANT FOR SEXISM, so inappropriate!”
上周六，特朗普在Twitter上说：“希拉里·克林顿宣布让丈夫出来助选，但他早就有性别歧视的嗜好，这真不合适！”
He went further on Tuesday, saying that in Mr. Clinton’s political career, “there were certainly a lot of abuse of women, and you look at whether it’s Monica Lewinsky or Paula Jones or many of them.”
特朗普周二进一步攻击说，在比尔·克林顿的政治生涯中“肯定有很多虐待妇女的事情，不管你看到的是莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)、或是葆拉·琼斯(Paula Jones)，或是许多其他人。”
In response to Mr. Trump’s latest onslaught, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign said in a statement that “Hillary Clinton won’t be bullied” or “distracted by the slings he throws at her and former President Clinton.” A spokesman for Mr. Clinton declined to comment.
作为对特朗普最新一轮猛攻的回击，希拉里的竞选队伍在一份声明中说：“希拉里·克林顿不会被霸道屈服”，也不会“被他向自己和前总统克林顿发出的恶语攻击分心”。比尔·克林顿的一位发言人拒绝对此事发表评论。
Mr. Trump’s tactics could backfire. Mrs. Clinton had some of her highest approval ratings ever after revelations that Mr. Clinton had a relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, a 22-year-old White House intern.
特朗普此举可能会适得其反。希拉里曾得到的最高支持率之一是在比尔·克林顿与22岁的白宫实习生莱温斯基的关系揭露之后。
This month at a New Hampshire town hall, a young woman asked Mrs. Clinton about several women who alleged they were sexually harassed by Mr. Clinton.
本月在新罕布什尔州市政厅，一名年轻女子曾向希拉里问起几名指控比尔·克林顿对她们进行过性骚扰的妇女。
“You say that all rape victims should be believed,” the woman said. “Should we believe them as well?”
这位女子说，“你说，人们应该相信所有的被强奸者。我们应该相信她们吗？”
Mrs. Clinton did not hesitate. “Well, I would say that everybody should be believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence,” she said, with an awkward smile, as the crowd applauded.
希拉里一点也没有犹豫。“嗯，我会说，每个人都应该先被相信，直到有证据表明，他们不可信为止，”她面带尴尬笑容地说，当场听众对这番话报以掌声。