SEATTLE — In a suburb due east of Los Angeles, Starbucks is opening a $70 million, state-of-the-art plant that will produce cold-pressed juices.
西雅图——在洛杉矶正东方向的一个郊区，星巴克(Starbucks)建起了一座造价7000万美元、装备极为精良的工厂，用于生产冷榨果汁。
The factory is the latest investment that underscores Starbucks’ determination to transform its brand from being synonymous with coffee to a food and beverage juggernaut.
星巴克正致力于将品牌从咖啡的同义词转变成一个食品和饮料巨无霸，而这座工厂就是为此做出的最新一笔投入。
In the last two years, Starbucks has spent $750 million acquiring three new businesses — Evolution Fresh juices, La Boulange Café and Bakery, and Teavana — as it tries to muscle in on prized grocery shelves and compete in territory now dominated by the likes of Panera Bread and Chipotle.
在过去两年里，星巴克花了7.5亿美元去收购三项新业务——Evolution Fresh果汁、布朗热(La Boulange)烘焙和Teavana——它试图挤进重要的食品店货架，在目前由Panera Bread、Chipotle这样的公司控制的领域展开竞争。
“We have a lot going on,” Howard Schultz, the chief executive, said in an interview at the company’s offices here.
“我们在做很多事情，”首席执行官霍华德·舒尔茨(Howard Schultz)在公司办公室接受采访时说。
La Boulange’s sweet and savory pastries and snacks now are displayed on pink paper that lines bakery cases in 3,000 of Starbucks’ 10,000 domestic stores.
在全美1万家星巴克门店中，已经有3000家在烘焙食品柜里摆出布朗热的产品——一些垫着粉色纸的甜味与咸味糕点和小吃。
This month, Teavana will open its first tearoom on Madison Avenue with the goal of teaching customers how to order tea the same way they order coffee in a Starbucks — double tall light whipped soy oolong, anyone?
Teavana的第一家茶室本月将在麦迪逊大道开张，他们希望教会消费者，能像在星巴克点咖啡那样在这里点茶——小杯双份搅打豆奶乌龙茶，怎么样？
Whether the diversification and expansion will catch on is something analysts and Wall Street are watching. Given that Starbucks’ primary business is still concentrated during the morning hours when coffee drinking is most popular, the company has struggled for years to lure customers into its stores through the rest of the day. Beverages, mainly coffee drinks, still account for three-quarters of the company’s overall sales, while food contributes 19 percent.
这种多样化和扩张能否奏效，是一些分析师和华尔街拭目以待的。星巴克的主要业务依然集中在早上，也就是最常见的喝咖啡时间，公司多年来费尽心机想吸引顾客在一天的其他时间里也能到店里来。以咖啡为主的饮品至今仍在公司的总销售额中占据四分之三，而食品占了19%。
Fueling its moves into new ventures are record results. In the first three quarters of its fiscal year, the company’s sales grew 11.7 percent to $9.9 billion, with sales in stores open at least a year climbing 7 percent to produce earnings of $1 billion, up 21 percent.
创纪录的业绩额正在激发星巴克进入新的领域。在本财年的前三季，该公司的销售额增长了11.7%，至99亿美元。而在开张至少一年的店铺，销售额则攀升了7%。该公司的利润达到10亿美元，升幅为21%。
Now, despite Starbucks’ addition of those display cases with tempting pastries and juices, analysts are flagging the potential risks associated with any drift away from attention to its still enviable and dominant brand.
如今星巴克开始在食品柜里放上诱人的糕点和果汁，分析师们却提出，从一个目前仍保持着号召力和统治力的品牌偏离出去是存在风险的。
Bonnie Herzog, a stock analyst at Wells Fargo who follows the company, recalled how Wall Street punished PepsiCo when it took its eye off its namesake soda business to focus on developing the snack-and-cereal side.
一直在跟踪星巴克行情的富国银行(Wells Fargo)股票分析师邦妮·赫佐格(Bonnie Herzog)提起了华尔街惩罚百事公司(PepsiCo)的旧事，当时公司将重心从其同名汽水业务移开，转向开发小吃和谷物类食品业务。
“Starbucks is asked all the time whether with all the balls they are throwing up now, they can keep the core business healthy and strong,” Ms. Herzog said. “That business, after all, is what is going to fuel and finance growth of all these other areas.”
“一直都有人在问星巴克，在多面出击的同时，他们能否保证核心业务的健康和强势，”赫佐格说。“说到底，其他所有领域的发展，动力和资金来源都是要靠那个业务的。”
She said she saw value in the company’s cross-marketing of its portfolio of brands. Evolution Fresh juices and healthy snacks are now sold in Starbucks stores, displacing national brands like Naked and Kind, and La Boulange products are likely to end up in Teavana and Evolution Fresh stores.
她说，她认为该公司对自己的品牌组合进行交叉营销是有价值的。现在，星巴克的门店在销售Evolution Fresh果汁和健康零食，取代了Naked和Kind等全国性的品牌。La Boulange的产品可能也会在Teavana和Evolution Fresh的店铺出售。
Shoppers can already find Evolution Fresh juice in Whole Foods stores across the country and in many Stop and Shop locations. Starbucks is preparing to open a string of stores dedicated to the brand. There, Lucite levers on the wall will allow customers to mix their own juice blends to go with a menu of soups, salads and sandwiches that try to cater to the health-conscious.Although a few Starbucks stores offered light lunch options, even some finger food and wine after 4 p.m., the company’s previous attempts with food have not wowed customers. “Some people have said our food is not much better than cardboard, which I think is a fair criticism,” Mr. Schultz said.
顾客现在已经可以在全美各地的全食超市(Whole Foods)，还有许多Stop and Shop店铺买到Evolution Fresh果汁。星巴克正在准备开设一系列这个品牌的专卖店，以迎合注重健康的顾客。在店里，只要拨动墙上的有机玻璃把手，顾客就可以自行混合自己的果汁口味，从而搭配菜单上的各种汤、沙拉和三明治。尽管星巴克的一些门店提供午餐简餐，甚至在下午4点之后还会提供红酒和可以直接用手拿的小食，但是这家公司过去推出食品的尝试却没有讨得顾客的欢心。舒尔茨说，“有人说我们的食品不比硬纸板好多少，我想这种批评挺公道的。”
Changing that ho-hum selection has fallen to Pascal Rigo, who is responsible for all the pink paper showing up in Starbucks stores these days. The founder of La Boulange, Mr. Rigo has not only figured out how to squeeze freezers into all the Starbucks stores — one tiny outlet in Manhattan was a particular headache — but he also is coaxing legions of baristas into selling baked goods and sandwiches.
给这些平平无奇的食品带来改变的任务，落在了帕斯卡·里格(Pascal Rigo)身上。就是他为星巴克门店带来了那些粉色纸片。身为La Boulange的创始人，里格不仅想出了如何将冰柜挤进所有星巴克门店的方法（曼哈顿一家窄小的店铺让他尤其头痛），也在劝诱大批大批的咖啡师开始销售烘焙食品和三明治。
One example of the attention to detail is the assignment of one employee in each Starbucks store to mind the pastry case, to make sure that most of La Boulange’s baked goods are served warm, as they are intended to be eaten that way. The chocolate croissant, which is not too sweet, is particularly popular.
有一个例子能体现这种关注细节的精神，那就是在每一家星巴克店铺指定一名员工留意糕点货架，从而确保La Boulange的大部分烘焙食品在食用时都是温热的，因为这些食品本就应该是热着食用的。并不是太甜的巧克力羊角包尤其受人欢迎。
The sheer logistics of the new food business would be a challenge to any company. Mr. Rigo is essentially in charge of training hundreds of regional bakeries to make scores of La Boulange products consistently, flash-freeze them, and deliver them to Starbucks stores in the right quantities every day. “There are a lot of moving parts,” he said, “but I think we can do it.”
单单是新增的食品业务带来的物流问题，都会给任何一家公司构成挑战。里格实质上是在负责培训数百家地方性的烘焙店，以前后一致的品质，做出大量La Boulange食品，之后再快速冷冻，每天向星巴克店铺提供合适的数量。“有很多不确定的因素，”他说。“但我觉得我们能做好。”
“Food is something they’ve been trying to solve for 20 years,” said John Moore, a former marketing executive at Starbucks who is now chief operating officer of Brains on Fire, a marketing consulting firm. “The stores are set up as places to brew and serve coffee, and they don’t have a back of the house suitable for the prep work and other work that goes into serving high-end pastries like these well.”
“食品是他们20年来一直想解决的问题，”曾在星巴克担任营销主管，现任营销咨询公司“燃烧智囊”(Brains on Fire)首席运营官的约翰·摩尔(John Moore)说。“这些店铺都是当做煮咖啡、喝咖啡的场所布置的，因而并没有合适的后备空间，来为供应这样的高端甜点做准备工作和其他工作。”