Starbucks is taking on the thriving market for yogurt, teaming up with French dairy powerhouse Danone to create a line of yogurts that will be sold in the coffee company’s stores and in grocery stores.
星巴克(Starbucks)正在进军蓬勃发展的酸奶市场。它与法国乳制品巨头达能(Danone)正携手打造一个系列的酸奶产品，将在零售商店和这家咖啡公司的门店出售。
To be called Evolution Fresh, Inspired by Dannon, the new products will capitalize on Danone’s long history of making yogurt and the extensive reach of Starbucks, which has grown to more than 10,000 stores in the United States.
这些新产品将被叫做“Evolution Fresh，源自达能”，它们将利用达能制作酸奶的悠久历史和星巴克的广阔市场。目前，星巴克已经在美国拥有1万多家店面。
“Yes, it is a new business channel for us, but I wasn’t really looking at it because of business,” said Franck Riboud, chief executive of the Danone Group. “I was really looking to Starbucks because I love their community, the 70 million customers who visit their stores each week, and the way they attract and talk and listen to that community.”
“没错，这对于我们来说是一个新的业务平台，但我真的不是出于商业目的才关注它，”达能集团的首席执行官弗兰克·里布(Franck Riboud)说。“我真的对星巴克感兴趣是因为我喜欢他们的客户群体——每周走进星巴克的7000万名顾客，以及他们招徕顾客、与顾客交谈和倾听顾客想法的方式。”
Yogurt is one of the hottest categories in food today, introducing new brands, flavors and permutations at mind-numbing speed, and shaking up traditional players like Danone and Yoplait, which is owned by General Mills and the French dairy cooperative Sodiaal. Chobani, the company widely credited with awaking American interest in yogurt, didn’t even exist 10 years ago, and now its founder is a billionaire.
如今，酸奶是最受欢迎的食品类别之一，新品牌、新口味和新系列推出的速度惊人，对达能和优诺(Yoplait)等酸奶市场中的传统商家产生了很大影响。优诺为通用磨坊(General Mills)和法国乳制品合作企业Sodiaal共同所有。人们普遍认为，是Chobani公司唤起了美国人对酸奶的兴趣，10年前这家公司还不存在，但是现在其创始人已经成了亿万富翁。
At a time when dairy companies are fighting over limited space on the refrigerated shelves in grocery stores, Danone’s expansion into Starbucks space offers the yogurt company a powerful new sales outlet.
此时，各乳制品公司正在争夺食品杂货店里有限的冷藏货架空间，达能进入星巴克门店则为这家酸奶公司提供了一个有力的新销售渠道。
Still, Americans consume far less yogurt than their European counterparts. The French, for example, eat 33 kilos, or a little more than 72 pounds (144 cups), of yogurt per capita in a year, Mr. Riboud said, while Americans each eat an average of only 6 kilos, or roughly 13 pounds (or 24 cups).
尽管如此，美国人消耗的酸奶仍比欧洲人要少得多。里布举例说，法国每年的人均酸奶消耗量为33公斤，而美国每年的人均酸奶消耗量仅为6公斤。
That gap has convinced companies like Starbucks that as fast as yogurt sales have increased here, there is still plenty of room for the market to grow. “When I attended the natural foods show in Anaheim in the spring, I could not believe the ubiquity of yogurt brands,” said Howard Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks. “And over the last 18 months, there has been an acceleration of yogurt sales in our stores that is bigger than anything we’ve seen in the past.”
这种差距使星巴克这样的公司确信，尽管美国的酸奶销售已经增长得如此之快，这里的市场仍然有很大的增长空间。“今年春天我去阿纳海姆参加天然食品展览会，玲琅满目的酸奶品牌简直令人难以置信，”星巴克首席执行官霍华德·舒尔茨(Howard Schultz)说。“过去18月里，我们店的酸奶销售量一直在增加，速度之快史无前例。”
Harry Balzer, the chief food industry analyst at the NPD Group, has been calling yogurt “the food of the decade” for more than a decade. “Why yogurt is the food of the decade for that long is for this primary reason: You don’t need to prepare it,” Mr. Balzer said. “It can be breakfast, it can be lunch and it is the fastest growing dessert at dinner time, but what’s best about it is there is no cooking and no cleaning up involved and that’s exactly what Americans want.”
十多年来，NPD集团(NPD Group)的首席食品行业分析师哈里·鲍尔泽(Harry Balzer)一直把酸奶称为“本年代的代表食品”。“究竟酸奶为何会在这么长的时间内保持年代代表食品的地位，主要原因是：它不需要任何准备，”鲍尔泽说。“它可以当早餐，也可以当午餐，而且作为晚餐后的甜点，它的增长速度也是最快的。但它最大的优点就在于，无需烹饪，也不用清理碗碟，而这正是美国人所想要的。”
Yogurt sales have grown quickly over the last decade. Packaged Facts, a market research firm, estimates that yogurt sales in the United States grew 6.6 percent, to $7.3 billion in 2012, compared with 2011, driven almost wholly by increased sales of Greek yogurts.
在过去十年里，酸奶销售增长迅速。根据市场调查公司包装事实(Packaged Facts)估算，美国2012年的酸奶销售额较2011年增长6.6%，达到73亿美元（约合448亿元人民币），几乎全部来自希腊式酸奶销售的增长。
But Mr. Balzer said sales had flattened this year because children were not eating as much. “Greek yogurt is a very important part of what’s driving the market, but it’s an adult product,” he said.
但鲍尔泽表示，希腊式酸奶今年的销售增长已趋缓，因为儿童吃得不多。“希腊式酸奶是驱动酸奶市场的重要因素，但这是一种针对成人的产品，”他说。
The perceived health benefits, he said, are secondary to convenience, but health is why Starbucks decided to rethink the yogurt parfait it has long sold in its stores. “Over the last few years, we have certainly begun to notice that anything we did in our stores that even evoked a healthier alternative has resonated with our customers,” Mr. Schultz said. “Adding healthier items and tweaking existing ones to increase their healthiness has provided a significant tail wind in terms of serving our customers.”
他说，比较便利性，人们期望从酸奶产品中得到的健康益处已沦为第二位，但正是健康促使星巴克决定重新考虑已在门店销售多年的酸奶冻糕。“在过去几年，我们确实已开始注意到，我们在门店里做的任何可以让人们有更健康选择的举措，都得到了顾客的响应，”舒尔茨说。“增加更健康的产品，调整现有产品，令其对健康更有益。在服务我们的顾客方面，这已被证明是非常重要的推动力。”
Additionally, he said, Starbucks’s business has become less dependent on morning traffic than ever before. “People are using Starbucks stores in many, many other ways throughout the day, and that has created opportunities for us in the food space,” Mr. Schultz said.
此外他还说，星巴克对早高峰的依赖已经空前地减少了。“人们在整个一天里都会有许许多多的原因光顾星巴克，而这已经在食品领域为我们创造了机会，”舒尔茨说。
The company bought Evolution Fresh, a juice business started by the founder of Naked Juice, in 2011, and earlier this year, it paid $100 million for La Boulange bakery. Evolution products have begun showing up in Starbucks stores and on grocery shelves, and La Boulange’s products will begin replacing the company’s traditional lineup of baked goods and foods later this year.
2011年，星巴克收购了Evolution Fresh，这是裸果汁(Naked Juice)的创始人创办的一家生产果汁的企业，今年早些时候，它付了1亿美元买下布朗热(La Boulange)烘焙公司。Evolution Fresh的产品已开始出现在星巴克的门店和食品杂货店的货架上，而布朗热的产品将从今年年底开始取代星巴克传统的烘培产品。
Mr. Schultz and Mr. Riboud have known each other in passing for several years, but first met for a heart-to-heart about eight months ago, after Mr. Riboud read “Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time.” “I really wanted to meet Howard because of what he expressed in the book about the management of human resources and the DNA of the Starbucks company,” Mr. Riboud said. “I got the feeling that our DNA was not so far apart when I read about all the social programs of Starbucks, and I asked for an appointment.”
过去几年，舒尔茨和里布曾在不同场合见过面，但大约是在八个月以前，里布读了《将心注入》(Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time)一书后，他们才进行了第一次私下会面。“我真的很想见霍华德，因为他在这本书中谈到的人力资源管理和星巴克企业基因管理的观点，”里布说。“当我读到星巴克所有那些社会项目时，我有这种感觉，我们的基因也许不是那么不同，我要求与他见面。”
He shared a famous speech his father, Antoine Riboud, had made in 1972 about the social responsibilities a company has, and in March after a nice dinner, Mr. Riboud and Mr. Schultz shook hands on the deal to collaborate on Evolution Fresh, Inspired by Dannon.
他的父亲安托万·里布(Antoine Riboud)在1972年曾做了一个著名的有关企业社会责任的演说，他也秉持着演说中表达的理念，然后在三月，里布和舒尔茨敲定了“Evolution Fresh，源自达能”的合作计划。
“I have eaten more yogurt in the last 18 months than I have eaten in my entire life,” Mr. Schultz said. “The product I love is Actimel” — a probiotic yogurt drink known as DanActive in North America — “which I think is an unbelievable hidden jewel within Danone.”
“在过去18个月里，我吃的酸奶比我一辈子吃的都多，”舒尔茨说。“我喜爱的那款产品是Actimel”——一种益生菌的酸奶饮品，在北美地区被称为DanActive——“我觉得，这种产品就是达能公司一颗深藏不露的宝石。”
The new products will first appear next spring in Starbucks stores and in grocery stores in 2015. The companies said they would then roll them out in various international markets.
这些新产品将在明年春天亮相星巴克门店，并在2015年出现在食品杂货店的货架上。公司表示，它们随后将在海外各地市场推出这些产品。