Thanksgiving is right around the corner, which means it is time to embark on a modern American holiday tradition: over-analyzing seasonally available Starbucks cups for signs of liberal nefariousness.
感恩节即将来临。这意味着美国的一项现代节日传统又要开始了：对应季的星巴克咖啡杯进行过度分析，寻找它们罪大恶极的迹象。
Starbucks has produced holiday cups for 20 years. Some have come and gone with little commotion, but others have drawn the ire of conservatives for what some have seen as a secular design scheme that failed to show proper respect for Christianity.
星巴克推出节日杯的传统已经持续了20年。一些杯子几乎没引起什么大动静，但其他一些杯子却引发了保守派的愤怒，因为一些人认为它们的世俗设计方案没有对基督教表示出应有的尊重。
This year’s cup features nods to Christmas tradition, including a decorated Christmas tree, and was introduced by an online video that proclaimed “the holidays mean something different to everyone.”
今年的杯子出现了与基督教传统相呼应的元素，包括一颗经过精心装饰的圣诞树。网上的宣传视频也宣称“节日对每个人的含义都不同”。
But that big-tent approach wasn’t enough to avoid controversy. This year, critics wonder if Starbucks is using its holiday cups to promote homosexuality.
但这种大包容的方式仍不足以避免争议。今年，批评人士怀疑星巴克在利用节日杯宣传同性恋。
What is going on here, you may ask? Read on.
你可能会问，怎么回事？请接着往下看。
A Gay Agenda?
同性恋议程？
The online video that introduced the 2017 holiday cup on Nov. 1 featured a diverse cast of Starbucks customers, including a pair of cartoon women who were shown holding hands.
11月1日，一段网络视频对2017年的节日杯进行了介绍。视频中出现了形形色色的星巴克消费者，包括一对手牵手的女性卡通人物。
The nature of their relationship was not specified, but some viewers saw them as a nod toward the inclusion of gay and transgender customers.
这些人物之间的关系并不明朗，但一些观众认为这是在认同对同性恋和跨性别顾客的接纳。
The video itself did not attract negative attention. The latest controversy has focused instead on a pair of gender-neutral hands holding each other on the side of the cup itself.
视频本身并未引来负面关注。最新的争论转而把重点放在了杯身上那双相扣着的、看不出性别的手上。
Those linked hands came to wider public attention after BuzzFeed published an article about them Wednesday.
周三，Buzzfeed就此发表了一篇文章，使这双牵着的手受到了更广泛的关注。
It suggested the cup was “totally gay.”
文章表示这个杯子“根本就是弯的”。
“While people who follow both Starbucks holiday cup news and LGBT issues celebrated the video, the ordinary Starbucks customer probably didn’t realize the cup might have a gay agenda,” BuzzFeed said.
“既关注星巴克节日杯的新闻又关注LGBT问题的人在赞扬这个视频，不过普通的星巴克顾客或许都没意识到这个杯子里还会有同性恋议题，”BuzzFeed写道。
After that, it was off to the races.
在这之后，事情就开始热闹起来了。
Fox News picked up the story of what it called the “androgynous” cartoon hands, referring to Bible-quoting critics of Starbucks and criticizing BuzzFeed, which it said had “asserted the hypothesis is fact.”
福克斯新闻(Fox News)的报道把这双卡通的手称作是“男女难辨”的，并引用了一些搬出圣经来批判星巴克的人，还有Buzzfeed的批评者，称他们“把假设断言成事实”。
The conservative site The Blaze also waded in, saying Starbucks had launched a “gay agenda campaign.”
保守网站The Blaze也加入了进来，称星巴克发起了一项“同性恋议题运动”。
Fox said it asked Starbucks about the cartoons but the company “neither confirms nor denies the allegations,” by which it presumably meant the promotion of lesbianism.
福克斯新闻表示，他们曾就卡通问题向星巴克公司提问，但该公司“既不承认也不否认这些说法”，由此，他们猜测星巴克旨在宣传女同性恋。
But in an email to The Times, Starbucks said it would let customers decide for themselves what the cup was about.
但在一封给《纽约时报》的邮件中，星巴克表示他们会让顾客自己判断杯子上画的是什么。
“This year’s hand-drawn cup features scenes of celebrating with loved ones — whoever they may be,” said Sanja Gould, a company spokeswoman. “We intentionally designed the cup so our customers can interpret it in their own way, adding their own color and illustrations.”
“今年的手绘杯主打与爱人庆祝的场景——不论爱人是谁，”星巴克的一位发言人桑亚·古尔德(Sanja Gould)说。“我们特意设计了这款杯子，以便让我们的顾客们以自己的方式去理解，加入自己的色彩和图画。”
The War on Christmas
对圣诞节宣战
Controversy over the design of seasonal Starbucks cups is just one front in an annual culture war over the role of religion and liberalism in the five-week period between Thanksgiving and New Year’s Day, a period that people inclined toward interfaith outreach might call “the holiday season.”
星巴克季节限定杯的争论只是宗教文化与自由主义文化角色大战的其中一条战线。这个一年一度的大战从感恩节持续到元旦，为期五周。支持跨宗教包容的人可能会称这段时间是“节日季”。
Like many divisive cultural debates, arguments over the Christian bona fides of seasonal Starbucks cups appear to have intensified during the 2016 presidential campaign as political and social tensions heightened in many areas of American life.
和许多会引起分歧的文化争论一样，在2016年总统大选中，由于美国政治和社会生活的许多方面更加紧张，有关星巴克季节限定杯子上的基督教善意精神讨论也被激化。
In 2015, Starbucks announced it would remove traditional holiday symbols, like reindeer and Christmas trees, from its holiday cups in favor of a more minimalist red design.
2015年，星巴克宣布节日杯上如驯鹿和圣诞树一类的传统圣诞标志将被撤下，取而代之的是极简主义的红色设计。
In a statement released at the time, the company said it wanted to “create a culture of belonging, inclusion and diversity” and meant the cups as an invitation for “customers to tell their Christmas stories in their own way, with a red cup that mimics a blank canvas.”
在当时发布的一则声明中，该公司表示他们希望“营造出一种有归属性、包容性和多样性的文化”，并将杯子当作一封邀请函，“请顾客在仿佛空白画布的红色杯子上，用自己的方式说出自己的圣诞故事。”
That decision was met with an angry online backlash from conservatives and others who saw it as an example of political correctness run amok. Joshua Feuerstein, a conservative Christian activist with a robust social media presence, urged a boycott in a Facebook video that has been viewed more than 17 million times.
一些来自保守派和其他群体的人士认为，星巴克的这一决定是政治正确失控的一个表现，并在网上愤怒地对这个决定表示强烈反对。在社交媒体上拥有相当关注度的保守基督教活动家约书亚·费尔斯坦(Joshua Feuerstein)在一个Facebook视频中呼吁对其进行抵制，视频有超过1700万浏览量。
One of the people who weighed in on the 2015 Starbucks controversy was then-presidential candidate Donald Trump, who frequently used his campaign speeches to complain about people and retailers who say “happy holidays” instead of “merry Christmas.”
2015年星巴克争议的参与者还有当时的总统候选人唐纳德·特朗普。他经常在竞选演讲中抗议那些说“节日快乐”而非“圣诞快乐”的人和商家。
At a rally that November, he identified Starbucks as an offender and suggested the company was due for some backlash.
在去年11月一场竞选集会上，他将星巴克列为违规者，并指出该公司应被抵制。
“I have one of the most successful Starbucks, in Trump Tower,” he told the crowd. “Maybe we should boycott Starbucks? I don’t know. Seriously, I don’t care. That’s the end of that lease, but who cares?”
“最成功的星巴克门店，有一家就在我的特朗普大厦里，”他向着人群说，“或许我们该抵制星巴克？说不好。说真的，我不在意。租约就到此为止了，谁会在意呢？”
When asked why Starbucks, a mammoth global brand, seemed to get ensnared in seasonal controversies so often, Gould, the spokeswoman, demurred.
当被问及为什么星巴克这样一个庞大的国际品牌会那么频繁地遭遇季节性争议时，发言人古尔德表示不以为然。
In an email, she said that each customer’s experience was “intensely personal,” and said the company was “humbled by how passionate customers are about our holiday cups.”
在一封邮件中，她表示，每个顾客的体验都是“极其私人的”，并表示“顾客对我们的节日杯有如此的热情”让公司深感荣幸。
The cup controversy has been less heated this year, though. Trump has not weighed in on the alleged sexual orientation of the cartoon, and Feuerstein also appeared to be sitting this one out, according to a post he wrote on Facebook.
不过，今年的杯子争论没那么激烈了。特朗普没有参与讨论这个卡通的所谓性取向，根据费尔斯坦在Facebook上的一个帖子来看，他也不打算参与。
He said this year he was focused on “building a friendship and witnessing to a gay black man who works at the Starbucks” he frequents instead of stoking online outrage.
他表示今年他的重点是“与一位在星巴克工作的黑人男同性恋者建立一段友谊和见证”，而非在网上煽动愤怒情绪。此人在他常去的那间星巴克上班。
“I’m supposed to be taking him to dinner soon and hopefully sharing the rest of the gospel with him,” he wrote. “There’s your controversy.”
“我很快要请他一起吃晚餐了，希望能与他分享完余下的福音，”他写道。“这就是你们要的争议。”