Holiday travel stress became too much for some of the 2,000 stranded passengers at an airport in central China, with some passengers smashing computers and causing a “riot,” the Global Times newspaper has reported.
假期旅行的压力对滞留在中国中部一家机场的2000多名乘客中的一些人来说，达到了无法忍受的程度，他们砸坏了机场的电脑、制造了一场“骚乱”，《环球时报》消息称。
Flight delays at the Xinzheng International Airport in Zhengzhou, Henan Province, were caused by days of heavy snowfall in the region and  came at the peak travel season in China as workers were returning home from the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday.
连日的大雪致使河南省郑州市的新郑国际机场航班延误，而这正赶上农历新年的7天假期结束、打工者返程的高峰时间。
The anger began to erupt around 9 p.m. on Wednesday, when some passengers smashed an information kiosk, The Henan Business Daily reported. On Thursday morning, an angry female passenger “stormed” into an airport control room, struck an employee and threw a drink over the worker’s head.
据《河南商报》报道，滞留乘客的愤怒在周三晚上9点左右开始爆发，一些人砸了一个问讯处。周四早上，一名愤怒的女乘客“闯进”机场调度室，打了一名工作人员，还将饮料泼到这名工作人员头上。
“Actually, I’ve been wronged as well. We can do nothing about the weather,” Hu Xiaoyu, the airport ground services staff member who was attacked, told The Henan Business Daily.
被打的地面客服部调度胡晓瑀告诉《河南商报》记者，“其实我也很委屈，由于天气原因造成的航班延误，我们也没有办法。”
The passenger who threw the drink over her head also threatened to post photos online, Ms. Hu said.
胡晓瑀说，那名将饮料泼到她头上的乘客还威胁要将照片上传到网上。
“Many passengers don’t understand that we also hope that their departure will be smooth,” Ms. Hu said, explaining that delays mean more work for her as well. The newspaper reported that Ms. Hu had eaten only one meal during her 30-hour shift.
她说，“很多乘客不理解，其实我们也希望乘客能顺利出行。” 她解释说航班延误也意味着她的工作时间要延长。该报消息称，胡晓瑀已经连续工作30个小时，只吃了一顿饭。
The Henan Business Daily reported that the airport experienced intermittent shutdowns on Wednesday and, according to Global Times, departures at the airport were halted Thursday afternoon until about 10 p.m.
《河南商报》报道称，该机场曾在周三间断性关闭了几次，《环球时报》称，周四下午从该机场起飞的航班推迟到了晚上10点左右。
Photos posted on the official Sina Weibo account of the Nanfang Daily newspaper, reportedly taken at the airport, showed a China Southern Airlines counter with the sign skewed precariously and groups of passengers sitting on their luggage trolleys in front of check-in counters.
《南方日报》新浪微博账户上发布的据称是现场拍摄的照片显示，中国南方航空公司服务台的牌子斜挂着，摇摇欲坠，服务台前有很多滞留乘客坐在自己的行李车上。
The staggering numbers of Chinese traveling around the holiday place a heavy load on the country’s transportation system, even when all is operating normally. The annual movement of people around Lunar New Year, also known as Spring Festival, has been called the world’s largest seasonal migration with about 3.6 billion journeys made over 40 days.
春节前后有惊人数量的中国旅行，即使在运转正常的情况下，这也给交通系统带来严重的压力。中国人在阴历新年、也就是春节期间的旅行被称为世界上最大规模的季节性迁徙，在40多天内共计行程约36亿人次。
Passengers at the Zhengzhou airport were not the only ones affected by poor weather. According to FlightStats, a travel information tracker, there were also significant delays from airports in Shanghai, Chongqing and Shenzhen on Thursday. On Friday, FlightStats showed continued problems in Zhengzhou, with about 60 delayed or cancelled flights. Snowfall also affected train passengers as the authorities ordered Chinese rail operators to limit train speeds to no more than 160 to 200 kilometers an hour, or 99 to 124 miles an hour, on certain routes, causing delays.
这家郑州机场的乘客并非唯一受到恶劣天气影响的人群。追踪旅行信息的公司FlightStats称，上海、重庆和深圳的机场周四均出现长时间的航班延误。该公司数据显示，郑州的航班延误问题一直持续到周五，当天有约60架航班推迟或取消。大雪也给乘火车出行的旅客带来影响，中国官方要求铁路系统将某些路线的火车时速限制在每小时160公里到200公里以内，因此导致了一些车次晚点。
According to a Spring Festival migration-tracking website set up by Baidu, Zhengzhou was not even in the top 10 cities in China for the number of departures on Friday. Baidu, using cellphone-based locations, ranked Beijing in first place, followed by Shanghai and Chongqing.
据百度设立的追踪春节期间迁徙的网站显示，郑州甚至不在迁出热市周五排名的前十名之列。百度的数据来自手机定位系统，北京位于迁徙出入人数之首，之后是上海和重庆。
The Zhengzhou airport website, www.zzairport.com, was down for hours on Friday, presumably as people tried to check the flight situation. Visitors trying to access the website were met with a “1040: Too many connections” message on a blank webpage.
郑州这家机场的网站, www.zzairport.com, 在周五停机数小时，可能是因为人们试图查询航班状态的结果。试图访问该网站的人看到的是空白页面上的简短信息：“1040: Too many connections”(数据库连接数太多)。
Meanwhile, the Ministry of Public Security announced that this Spring Festival saw a lower number of travel-related fatalities than last year. From Jan. 31 to Feb. 6, there were no motor vehicle accidents in China involving more than 10 fatalities, and overall traffic deaths were down by half, the ministry said on its website on Thursday.
与此同时，公安部称今年春节期间与交通有关的死亡人数与去年相比要低。公安部周四在网站上称，1月31日至2月6日，全国未发生一起死亡10人以上重大交通事故，道路交通事故死亡人数同比下降50%。