With a military-style precision that framed something very human and messy, the world’s biggest annual human migration – the Chinese Lunar New Year festival, known as Spring Festival – officially got under way in the first second of Thursday, Jan. 16, and will last 40 days, Chinese officials said.
中国官员称，从1月16日周四的第一秒钟开始，全世界最大的年度人口迁徙——名为“春节”的中国农历新年引发的人口迁徙——正式展开，并将持续40天。这种迁徙具有军事化的精确，内核却是一件非常人性又非常混乱的事情。
Demonstrating a deeply felt need among hundreds of millions of people working away from home to return for the most important festival of the year, a good portion of China’s 1.35 billion people are expected to make over 3.6 billion journeys – by plane, train, automobile, bus, motorized tricycle and probably a few donkeys.
中国共有13.5亿人口，预计其中相当大的一部分人会进行总计逾36亿次出行，出行方式包括飞机、火车、汽车、公交车、机动三轮车，多半还有几头牲口。这表明了在异乡工作的数亿人对于回家的深切渴望，他们想回家庆祝这个最重要的节日。
The sentiment of “home at any cost” is summed up by a catchy saying: “Rich or Poor, Home for New Year” (有钱没钱, 回家过年) and the enormous human activity needed to make that happen is called the “Spring Transport” (春运)。
这种“不惜一切代价回家”的情绪在朗朗上口的俗话“有钱没钱，回家过年”当中得到了总结，使回家成为可能的庞大人类活动则名为“春运”。
That movement of people strains the country’s transportation system, with tickets hard to buy, controversies over ticket sale systems, black-marketeering by “yellow oxen” (as the marketeers are called), trains packed like sardine tins and fights over boarding, lines and seats. But the end goal – celebrating with family – is considered worth it. This year, New Year’s Day is Jan. 31, beginning the Year of the Horse.
一票难求的现象、售票系统引发的争议、“黄牛”（在黑市倒票的人）的黑市操作、如沙丁鱼罐头一般拥挤的车厢以及上车、排队和座位引发的争斗都表明，这样的人口流动让这个国家的运输系统陷入了紧张状态。但人们认为，为了实现和家人一起庆祝节日这个最终目标，一切都值得。今年的农历新年将在1月31日到来，新的一年是马年。
At a news conference in Beijing on Tuesday, Lian Weiliang, a deputy chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, the central economic agency, said the figure of 3.623 billion expected trips was an increase of 200 million over last year.
在周二于北京举行的一次新闻发布会上，负责经济事务的中央机构国家发改委副主任连维良表示，今年春运客运量将达36.23亿人次，比上年增加2亿人次。
Special attention is on the railway system this year, experiencing its first rush since its reorganization from a separate government ministry to a state-owned corporation in March 2013.
今年，铁路系统特别受关注，因为这将是中国铁路系统自2013年3月从独立政府部委改组为国有企业后首次经受春运考验。
China Railway Corporation’s deputy general manager, Hu Yadong, said the corporation expected people to make 258 million rail journeys in the New Year period, China News Service reported, up 7.9 percent over last year.
中国新闻社报道称，中国铁路总公司副总经理胡亚东表示，该公司预计，铁路系统春运预计将发送旅客2.58亿人次，同去年相比增加7.9%。
The railways have been under intense scrutiny since the former railways minister, Liu Zhijun, was dismissed in 2011 on suspicion of corruption. Last July, Mr. Liu was arrested, tried and sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve (meaning he is unlikely to be executed) for bribery and abuse of power. He had overseen a rapid expansion of the rail system. By 2015, China will have 120,000 kilometers of railways, about one-tenth of that devoted to high-speed trains, officials have said.
2011年，前铁道部长刘志军因涉嫌腐败而被解职，自此以后，铁路系统一直在接受严格的审查。去年7月，刘志军被捕受审，并因受贿及滥用权力被判处死刑，缓期二年执行（意味着他不太可能被处死）。刘志军领导了铁路系统的快速扩张。官员曾表示，截至2015年，中国将拥有12万公里长的铁路线，大约十分之一的路线为高铁路线。
As for rail prices? They may not be raised to take advantage of people’s urgency to get home, Mr. Lian of the National Development and Reform Commission said, outlining a “Three No’s and One Investigate Policy,” meaning no deviating from state-set prices and investigations for any such deviations.
火车票价又怎么样呢？国家发改委的连维良表示，他们不会利用人们想要回家的急切心情提高票价。他大致介绍了“三不一查处”政策，即不对政府性定价进行调整，并对调价行为进行调查。
China Railway has debt of over 2.9 trillion renminbi ($510 billion), according to Chinese media reports citing a national audit conducted last year. Debt in the railway sector was highlighted when Bai Zhongren, the president of China Railway Group, the major railways construction company, reportedly killed himself by jumping from a building on Jan. 4, according to www.cb.com.cn, a Web site run by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. The report cited unnamed sources as saying that Mr. Bai had been depressed and that the company was struggling to pay wages to its nearly 288,000 workers. It was the second suicide of a high-ranking railways official since Mr. Liu’s downfall, it wrote. The company has capital of 626 billion renminbi ($103 billion) and debts of 532 billion renminbi, it wrote.
中国媒体援引中国审计署去年发布的公告称，中国铁路总公司负债超过2.9万亿元。据中国社会科学院运营的网站www.cb.com.cn报道，有报道称主要铁路建筑公司中铁股份有限公司的总裁白中仁于1月4日跳楼自杀，该事件突显了铁路部门的债务情况。该报道援引匿名消息人士的话称，白中仁非常沮丧，而中铁难以支付近28.8万名职工的工资。文章写道，白中仁是自刘志军下台以来第二个自杀的铁路高官。文章称，中铁总资产为6260亿元人民币，负债5320亿元。
None of that is likely to be uppermost in the minds of ordinary Chinese heading home for the holiday. They will probably be more interested in things like this: From Jan. 31 through Feb. 6, road tolls for “small passenger vehicles” will be suspended, China News Service reported.
对于准备回家过节的普通中国人来说，上述问题可能不是什么紧要问题。他们多半会对以下事情更感兴趣：根据中国新闻社的报道，从1月31日到2月6日，“小型客车”可以免费通行。