HONG KONG — The Lunar New Year makes for trying travel in China, as hundreds of millions of people board trains, planes and buses to visit family and celebrate the country’s most important holiday.
香港——春节在中国掀起了春运高峰，数亿人搭乘火车、飞机、大客车回乡探亲，庆祝中国最重要的节日。
When the weather turns bad, the journey can turn nightmarish, with huge crowds stuck at stations waiting to get home.
然而当天气转坏，大批人群滞留车站等待返乡时，这段旅程会变得有如一场梦魇。
This year, the weeklong holiday begins on Sunday, and snow and ice in central China have led to a particularly bad start to the travel period. In the southern city of Guangzhou, 100,000 people gathered around the main train station on Monday as poor weather caused rail service delays, the Guangzhou-based newspaper Southern Metropolis Daily reported. Huge crowds waited through the night, but photographs showed they were orderly.
今年为期一周的春节假期将于周日开始，而中国中部的冰雪天气给春运带来了特别糟糕的开头。据广州《南方都市报》报道，周一，糟糕天气导致列车延误晚点，南部城市广州市有10万人聚集在主火车站周边。大批民众彻夜等候，不过从照片看来秩序良好。
On Tuesday morning, 22 trains were delayed by at least an hour, the Guangzhou Railway Corporation said.
周二早上，广州铁路公司表示，晚点一小时及以上的列车有22趟。
By Tuesday afternoon, the number of people waiting outside had dropped to 22,500, after city officials restricted road and subway access to the station, Southern Metropolis Daily said.
《南方都市报》报道称，广州市政府官员对通往火车站的道路与地铁交通加以限制，截至周二下午，在站外等候的民众减少到2.25万人。
Guangzhou is the capital of Guangdong, China’s most populous province and host to the country’s largest number of migrant workers. Poor travel seasons are often felt most drastically in the city.
广州市是广东省省会，广东是中国人口最多的省份，也接纳了全国最多的外来劳工。通常在这个城市，最能感受到这种糟糕的交通高峰期。
So far, conditions have not reached the state of 2008, when accidents set off by snow and ice killed at least 24 people across the country and when as many as 800,000 people waited in cold rain outside the Guangzhou station. More than 12 million of the province’s 30 million migrant workers were not able to make it home that year, and some ended up celebrating the holiday with colleagues.
不过到目前为止，情况还没严重到像2008年一样。当时，中国各地的冰雪天气导致至少24人死亡，而在广州火车站外则有多达80万人在冰冷的雨水中等待。当年，在该省3000万名外来劳工里，有超过1200万人没能回家，有些人最后只能与同事一起庆祝春节。