PARIS — If France’s president-elect has broken every rule in the political playbook, consider Brigitte Macron, the country’s next first lady.
巴黎——如果说法国候任总统打破了政治教科书中的所有规则，那你可以想想这个国家的下任第一夫人布丽吉特·马克龙(Brigitte Macron)。
She met her future husband, Emmanuel, when he was 15 and she was his 39-year-old drama teacher, married with three children. She and his parents at first tried to discourage him from pursuing her, and she has said they did not have a “carnal” relationship when he was in high school, but he eventually won her over.
她在未来的丈夫埃马纽埃尔(Emmanuel)15岁的时候与他相遇，当时她是一名39岁的戏剧老师，已婚，有三个孩子。一开始，她和他的父母试图劝他不要追求她，并说他们在他上高中时不曾发生“性”关系，但他最终赢得了她的芳心。
By all accounts, she was present at every stage of his political evolution, coaching him on his speeches and public demeanor, and she is the one he turns to for an unsparing critique. He treats her as an equal partner and says she will define her future role.
据各方讲述，布丽吉特见证了马克龙在政治上演进的每个阶段，指导他的演讲与公共礼仪，在需要的时候给他提供不留情面的批评。他则把她当作平等的伴侣来对待，说她会定义自己未来的角色。
France being France, this unusual couple is already stirring a lively and erudite debate about sexism, ageism, masculinity, contemporary marriage, political stagecraft and what a modern French first lady should actually be.
即便是在法国，这对不同寻常的夫妇也已经激起一场激烈而有启发性的争论，话题涉及性别歧视、年龄歧视、男子气概、现代婚姻、政治表演，以及一名现代法国第一夫人到底应该是什么样。
“It’s like a breath of fresh air in this country,” said Natacha Henry, a writer on gender issues. “I think he won because he didn’t do any kind of macho performance, and that’s what we need. If she’s done that for him, great.”
“就像给这个国家吹来了一股新鲜的空气，”关注性别问题的写作者娜塔莎·亨利(Natacha Henry)说。“我觉得他之所以能赢，是因为他不做任何显示大男子主义的表演，这正是我们需要的。如果是她帮助他做到了这一点，那太好了。”
Some women see the Macrons as breaking with a pattern of powerful men adorning themselves with younger women; others say French history is replete with examples of younger men seeking out older women, from Henri II’s affair with Diane de Poitiers in the 16th century on.
有些女性认为，马克龙打破了权势男性用年轻女性装点自己的模式；也有人表示，从16世纪亨利二世(Henri II)与戴安娜·德普瓦捷(Diane de Poitiers)的情事算起，法国历史上不乏年轻男子追求年长女子的例子。
To some, Emmanuel Macron, 39, is a welcome antidote to past hypermasculine French politicians, and he surrounds himself with strong female advisers and models an egalitarian marriage. Others have mocked him as being under the thumb of a mother figure and even accused him of a gay affair, which he was driven to publicly deny.
对有些人而言，39岁的埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)是对法国过去那些极度大男人化的政客的一种矫正，他身边有不少强势的女性顾问，他示范着一种平等主义的婚姻。也有人嘲笑他受制于一个母亲般的人物，甚至指控他是同性恋，这遭到他的公开否认。
The candidate he defeated, Marine Le Pen, could not resist a dig at the marriage during their final debate: “I can see you want to play this teacher and pupil game with me, but it’s not really my thing.”
在最后一场竞选辩论中，被他击败的候选人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)禁不住挖苦他的婚姻：“看得出来，你是想跟我玩那套老师和学生的游戏，但这真不是我的菜。”
In the days after the election, social media posts went viral criticizing the way the couple have sometimes been portrayed in the press: she as a predatory “cougar” and he as a “boy toy”; Brigitte Macron, 64, has been called everything from a grandmother making his tea to a “cagole,” a French term for a bimbo. If the ages were reversed, her defenders pointed out, no one would have blinked an eye.
选举结束后的几天里，社交媒体大量传播着一些帖子，猛烈抨击了媒体有时描绘这对夫妇的方式：她是一头掠食年轻男性的“女色狼”，他则是只“小狼狗”；64岁的布丽吉特·马克龙被冠上各种名号，从给他泡茶的祖母，到“cagole”，即法语中表示性感无脑女子的词。她的支持者指出，要是把两人的年龄调换，就没人会说什么了。
“Madame Macron’s age is a feminist issue here,” Henry said. “I was at the hairdresser’s at a very small town in Orléans the day he was appointed minister of economy, and all the ladies were so happy she was so much older than him. We’re so fed up with these older guys with young actresses.”
“马克龙夫人的年龄在这里是一个女权主义议题，”亨利说。“他被任命为经济部长时，我正在奥尔良一个小城镇的美发店里，在场所有的女士们都为她的年龄比他大那么多而感到十分高兴。我们真是看够了那些老男人和年轻女演员的搭配。”
The Macrons both grew up in the northern city of Amiens, Brigitte Macron as the sixth child of a family whose chocolate business was a local institution founded in 1872. She married a banker in 1974 when she was 21, had two daughters and a son, and taught French, Latin and drama in high school.
马克龙夫妇都成长于北部城市亚眠，布丽吉特·马克龙是家里的第六个孩子，这个家族从1872就开始在当地经营巧克力生意，其产品在那里颇受尊崇。她在1974年，也就是自己21岁的时候嫁给了一名银行家，生了两个女儿、一个儿子，在高中教法语、拉丁语和戏剧。
Like many schoolboys, Emmanuel Macron developed a crush on his teacher. Brigitte Macron, during an interview she gave in 2016 to Paris Match magazine, described falling in love: “I felt that I was slipping, too,” she said. “I then asked him to go to Paris” to finish his education, and his parents were also eager to separate them.
像许多男学生一样，埃马纽埃尔·马克龙喜欢上了自己的老师。布丽吉特·马克龙在2016年接受《巴黎竞赛》(Paris Match)杂志采访时描述了这段恋情：“我感觉自己也要陷进去了，”她说。“之后我让他到巴黎”去完成学业，他的父母也急于将他们分开。
While the age of sexual consent in France is 15, it is illegal for teachers to have sex with students under the age of 18; Brigitte Macron told the authors of a book about the couple that they did not consummate the relationship while he was in high school. She declined a request for an interview.
尽管法国允许发生性关系的年龄是15岁，但老师与18岁以下的学生发生性关系是违法的；布丽吉特·马克龙告诉撰写一本以他们为主题的书的作者，在他上高中时，他们没有把关系发展到那种程度。她拒绝了时报了采访请求。
Candice Nedelec, an author of a book on them, “Les Macron,” said Emmanuel Macron would emerge backstage from a campaign appearance and reflexively ask, “Where’s Brigitte?”
以他们两人为主题的著作《马克龙夫妇》(Les Macron)的作者康迪斯·内代莱克(Candice Nedelec)说，埃马纽埃尔·马克龙会在竞选活动中露面后回到后台时，条件反射地问，“布丽吉特在哪里？”
Macron has sometimes come off as wordy, theoretical or hard to follow. Brigitte Macron told him bluntly to cut parts of his campaign book because they were too boring, Nedelec said. The documentary shows Brigitte Macron rehearsing a speech with him, telling him that he had not spoken loudly enough.
马克龙有时会给人以啰嗦、喜欢理论、让人跟不上他思路的感觉。内代莱克表示，布丽吉特·马克龙会直言不讳地告诉他，去掉竞选手册中的一部分，因为它们太乏味。这部纪实作品提到，布丽吉特·马克龙在跟他一起为演讲进行排练时，会直言他声音不够大。
“During a presidential campaign, it’s usually the king and his court,” Nedelec said. “She’s the one who won’t hesitate to tell him the truth.”
“在一场总统竞选中，通常出现的是国王与他的大臣，”内代莱克说。“而她是那个会毫不犹豫告诉他真相的人。”
Leah Pisar, an expert in Franco-American relations who worked in the Clinton White House, said Brigitte Macron served as his gatekeeper: “You want to get to him, you go through her.”
曾在克林顿政府供职的法美关系专家利娅·皮萨尔(Leah Pisar)表示，布丽吉特扮演着看门人的角色：“想搞定他，得先过了她这一关。”
In this, Brigitte Macron also appears maternal, protecting her husband as many French wives are expected to do. She is seen chiding him not to eat junk food on the trail in a documentary that followed his campaign for several months.
在这方面，布丽吉特·马克龙也显得有些母性化，在保护着她的丈夫，就像许多法国妻子被期待的那样。在一部纪录片里，可以看到她在竞选途中斥责他，让他不要吃垃圾食品。这部片子的拍摄者跟拍他的竞选活动历时数月。
But Marlène Schiappa, a campaign adviser on gender issues, and others who know the couple warn against painting her as a Pygmalion figure.
但性别问题方面的竞选顾问马莱娜·夏帕(Marlène Schiappa)及其他了解这对夫妇的人士发出警告，称不该把她描绘成皮格马利翁式的人物。
They say that he frames policy and that she is more of a sounding board, contributing only on issues she knows well, including education, culture and women’s rights. Nedelec said Macron had urged her husband to include proposals for smaller classes for students in disadvantaged areas.
他们表示，政策是他制定的，她更像是一个决策咨询人，只在自己非常了解的议题上提供意见，比如教育、文化和女性权利。内代莱克表示，马克龙曾力劝她丈夫纳入为落后地区的学生提供小班授课的提案。
She and one of her daughters pushed him to help advance women in politics; he has pledged that half the candidates his party will field in the coming legislative elections will be women and that he will appoint many women to his Cabinet.
她和她的一个女儿曾经力劝他帮助提高女性在政界的地位；他承诺在接下来的议会选举中，他的政党提名的候选人有一半会是女性，还说他会在自己的内阁中任命许多女性成员。
Some of these may be issues that Brigitte Macron takes up as first lady, a role that is undefined in France and has no government-paid staff — and polls show the French public wants to keep it that way, said Robert Schneider, who wrote a book about first ladies in France.
其中有些议题或许是布丽吉特·马克龙以第一夫人的角色提出，这是一个在法国没有明确定义的角色，手下也没有政府聘用的工作人员——曾撰写过一本有关法国第一夫人的著作的罗伯特·施奈德(Robert Schneider)提到，有调查问卷显示，法国公众希望继续保持这种状况。
Nedelec said that she had spoken with Brigitte Macron a few days ago and that Macron was thinking about Michelle Obama as a model. “Brigitte said she knows it was her husband who was elected and not her,” Nedelec said.
内代莱克表示，几天前她与布丽吉特·马克龙交谈过，后者正在考虑以米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)为榜样。“布丽吉特说她知道是她丈夫，而不是她当选了法国总统，”内代莱克说。
Yet in a television interview after he made it to the presidential runoff, her husband made it clear that she was not vanishing: “She will have a say in what she wants to be. She will have a presence, a voice, a look. She will have it privately by my side as she always has, but she will have a public role because that’s how it goes.”
然而在进入总统决选后接受电视采访时，她的丈夫曾明确表示她不会消失：“她会在自己感兴趣的任何领域拥有发言权。她会有一个位置，可以发声，可以旁观。就像一直以来，她私下里在我身边会是这样的，但她也会有一个公共角色，因为情况就是这样。”