WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Tuesday seemed deeply divided about one of the great civil rights issues of the age: whether the Constitution guarantees same-sex couples the right to marry. But Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, whose vote is probably crucial, gave gay rights advocates reasons for optimism based on the tone and substance of his questions
华盛顿——宪法应否保障同性伴侣结婚的权利，是当代最重要的民权问题之一。从周二的辩论来看，美国最高法院(Supreme Court )内部在这一问题上存在深刻的分歧。但大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)提出问题的语气和问题的内容，让同性恋权利支持者有理由乐观。肯尼迪的态度可能至关重要。
The questions from the justices suggested that they were divided along the usual lines — conservative and liberal — with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy holding the controlling vote. On the evidence of his words, he seemed torn about what to do. But Kennedy's tone was more emotional and emphatic when he made the case for same-sex marriage. That, coupled with his earlier judicial opinions, gave gay rights advocates reason for optimism by the end of the arguments, which lasted 2 1/2 hours.
大法官们的提问表明，他们一如以往地按照保守阵营和自由阵营的界限分成两派。透过大法官肯尼迪的措辞可以看出，他似乎相当纠结于该怎么办。不过，阐述同性婚姻存在的理由时，他的语气更具感情色彩，措辞更强烈。鉴于此，再加上他早前给出的司法意见，同性恋权利的倡导者有理由在长达两个半小时的辩论结束之际感到乐观。
The justices appeared to clash over not only what is the right answer in the case but also over how to reach it. The questioning illuminated their conflicting views on history, tradition, biology, constitutional interpretation, the democratic process and the role of the courts in prodding social change.
大法官们的分歧不仅在于对本案的正确判决该是什么样，还在于如何做出正确的判决。从问话中可以看到，他们对历史、传统、生物学、宪法解释、民主进程以及法院在推动社会变革中的作用都持有不同看法。
Kennedy said he was concerned about changing a conception of marriage that has persisted for so many years. Later, though, he expressed qualms about excluding gay families from what he called a noble and sacred institution. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. worried about shutting down a fast-moving societal debate.
肯尼迪称，改变存在多年的关于婚姻的理念让他感到担忧。但他随后又对把同性恋家庭排除在他口中高尚而又神圣的婚姻制度之外表示出疑虑。首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)则对停止一场快速演化的社会辩论表示担忧。
Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. asked whether groups of four people must be allowed to marry, while Justice Antonin Scalia said a ruling for same-sex marriage might require some members of the clergy to perform ceremonies that violate their religious teaching.
大法官小塞缪尔·A·阿利托(Samuel A. Alito Jr.)提出的问题是，是否必须允许四个人结婚；大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)则表示，一项支持同性婚姻的裁决，可能会迫使某些神职人员主持与他们信奉的教义相悖的婚礼。
Justice Stephen G. Breyer described marriage as a fundamental liberty. And justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan said that allowing same-sex marriage would do no harm to the marriages of opposite-sex couples.
大法官史蒂芬·G·布雷耶(Stephen G. Breyer)认为婚姻自由是一项基本的自由权。大法官鲁思·B·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)和埃琳娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)称，允许同性婚姻的存在不会对异性婚姻造成伤害。
Until recently, the court has been cautious and halting in addressing same-sex marriage, signaling that it did not want to outpace public support and developments in the states. Now, though, a definitive decision will probably be handed down in about two months.
最高法院直到最近还在以谨慎而又迟疑的态度对待同性婚姻，这说明它不愿置公众意见和各州的发展状况于不顾，把步子迈得太大。但现在，它可能会在大约两个月的时间里做出明确抉择。