WASHINGTON — The Congressional vote on whether to strike Syria will offer the best insight yet on which wing of the Republican Party — the traditional hawks, or a growing bloc of noninterventionists — has the advantage in the fierce internal debates over foreign policy that have been taking place all year.
华盛顿——美国国会将就是否对叙利亚展开袭击行动进行投票，这将给人们提供一扇绝佳窗口，展示出共和党的哪一派在全年的外交政策内部激辩中占有优势：究竟是传统的鹰派，还是势力越来越大的袖手旁观派？
Republican divisions on national security have flared over the use of drones, aid to Egypt, and the surveillance practices of the National Security Agency, and the tensions have played out publicly in battles between Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a former Navy pilot and Vietnam prisoner of war, and Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian-leaning freshman. McCain memorably called Paul and his compatriots “wacko birds,” and Paul suggested that hawks like McCain were “moss covered.”
共和党在国家安全议题上的分歧已在无人机的使用、对埃及的援助及国家安全局(National Security Agency)监控行为等领域爆发。这在参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)之间的对抗中显露无疑。前者来自亚利桑那州，是退役海军飞行员，曾在越南战争期间被俘；后者来自肯塔基州，有自由意志主义倾向，是参议院新人。麦凯恩曾称保罗及其同道为“疯鸟”，令人印象深刻，而保罗则暗示麦凯恩等鹰派“长满了苔藓”。
But those intermittent spats could pale in comparison with the fight over whether to attack Syria, an issue on which Mr. McCain, a former Republican presidential candidate, and Mr. Paul, a possible contender in 2016, will almost certainly be the leading spokesmen for their party’s two wings.
不过，与是否应攻击叙利亚的争斗相比，这些时不时出现的小争执不值一提。在这个问题上，几乎可以肯定，曾是共和党总统候选人的麦凯恩与可能参加2016年大选的保罗将会成为该党两翼的主要代言人。
Mr. McCain has long advocated intervention in Syria’s civil war. After meeting with President Obama at the White House on Monday, he said that it would be “catastrophic” if Congress did not approve the president’s proposal and that such a rejection would result in the United States’s credibility being “shredded.”
麦凯恩一直主张干预叙利亚内战。本周一在白宫与奥巴马总统会晤后，麦凯恩表示，倘若国会不批准总统的建议，将会酿成“灾难”，而且这种拒绝将导致美国“彻底丧失”信用。
Mr. Paul on Sunday made clear his opposition to Mr. Obama’s proposal, taking to Twitter and the talk shows to taunt Secretary of State John Kerry.
周日，保罗则明确表示反对奥巴马的建议，在Twitter和电视访谈节目中对国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)冷嘲热讽。
“John Kerry is, you know, he’s famous for saying, you know, how can you ask a man to be the last one to die for a mistake?” Mr. Paul said. “I would ask John Kerry, how can you ask a man to be the first one to die for a mistake?”
“约翰·克里，恩，出了名地说出了，恩，你怎么能要求一个人为一个错误战斗到最后一刻呢？”保罗说。“我倒想问问约翰·克里，你怎么能要求一个人为一个错误首先献身呢？”
A top aide to Mr. Paul said Sunday that the senator would mount a lobbying campaign in the House, where senior leaders like Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, who is the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, will face off against a new vanguard of members like Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, who are opposed to what they see as risky foreign entanglements.
一名高级幕僚周日表示，保罗将在众议院发起游说活动。在众议院，情报委员会(Intelligence Committee)主席、来自密歇根州的共和党人麦克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)，将与同样来自该州的共和党人贾斯廷·阿玛什(Justin Amash)等新兴势力先锋人物展开对决。在后者看来，攻击将会让美国陷入危险的外国纷争，应予以反对。
But even Republicans who are not active supporters of Mr. Paul recognize that the country and their party are susceptible to a come-home-America message at a moment of war weariness and, among conservatives, profound distrust toward Mr. Obama.
不过，就连并非保罗积极支持者的一些共和党人也意识到，此时此刻，出于对战争的厌倦，以及保守派对奥巴马的深层不信任，美国民众与共和党均易受到“回到美国”思想的感召。
“Americans have become increasingly inured to events thousands of miles away, within a distant and disconnected culture,” said a longtime Republican strategist, Alex Castellanos, citing a nation “exhausted by crises.” “They know our country is already overextended and doubt leaders who tell them there are ‘no good options’ but demand we choose one anyway.”
共和党资深策略师亚历克斯·卡斯特利亚诺斯(Alex Castellanos)称，“美国人对数千英里之外遥远而陌生的文化背景下发生的事情越来越不以为然了”，因为美国“被危机搞得疲惫不堪”。“他们知道，我们国家的战线已经拉得太长了，而且每当领导人表示‘没有好的选择’，却又非要大家做出选择的时候，他们狐疑满腹。”
As a result, Mr. Castellanos said, “Rand Paul is actually in sync with a crisis-weary America and a fatigued G.O.P.”
结果就是，卡斯特利亚诺斯说，“兰德·保罗实际上与对危机感到厌烦的美国公众和疲惫不堪的共和党成员完全同步。”
Mr. Paul is very much aware that the vote offers just that chance to reorient, at least for now, the Republican center on foreign affairs. And the debate gives him the chance to re-establish himself as the leading voice of the libertarian-leaning Tea Party movement after months in which Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has won significant attention.
保罗很清楚，这次投票正好提供了机会，至少可以暂时重新定位共和党外交事务的核心。此次辩论也给他提供了再度成为具有自由意志主义倾向的茶党运动中意见领袖的机会。此前数月，来自德克萨斯州的参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)获得了大量关注。
Dan Senor, a Republican strategist and foreign policy hand in President George W. Bush’s administration, lamented the trend of what he called “neo-isolationism” in either the Democratic or Republican Party when it does not hold the White House. But he acknowledged that the current mood of Republicans left Mr. Paul in a better position.
曾加入乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的共和党策略师、外交政策专家丹·赛诺尔(Dan Senor)哀叹，不管是共和党，还是民主党，在不主政白宫时，它们党内都会出现“新孤立主义”倾向。不过赛诺尔也表示，共和党人中的这种情绪让保罗处于一个更有利的位置。
“He is a skilled enough politician to tap into these sentiments and take advantage of them,” Mr. Senor said.
“他是一个成熟的政坛人物，知道如何发掘并利用这些情绪，”赛诺尔说。
Senior House Republican aides said there was little appetite in conservative districts for a strike on Syria, and, as one put it, “the administration doesn’t have one red cent of credibility in the bank” with members of Congress.
一些共和党众议员的资深幕僚称，保守选区对打击叙利亚的兴趣并不大，而且正如一个人说的那样，在国会议员那里，“奥巴马政府一分钱的信用也没有。”
This is precisely what worries Republicans who support a more hawkish foreign policy.
对于支持更强硬外交政策的共和党人而言，这正是令他们担心的地方。
“We cannot make this about the president versus Congress or him shuffling off responsibility,” Mr. Rogers, the Michigan Republican, said Sunday on “State of the Union” on CNN. “We can have all of those debates at another time. This is really about the credibility of the United States of America standing up for an antiproliferation and use of chemical and biological weapons.”
“我们不能围绕总统和国会的对立，或是总统对责任的推卸来展开这场辩论，”周日，在CNN的《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中，密西根州共和党人罗杰斯说。“我们可以再找个时间来进行这些辩论。而这一次，真正的讨论重点是美国能否维护自己的信誉，与生化武器的扩散和使用展开斗争。”
The hope among these interventionists is that they can make the vote less about enabling a despised Democratic president and more about sending a message not just to Syria but also to a potentially more dangerous nation: Iran.
这些干预主义者的希望是，赋予此次投票其他的意义——不是通过投票帮助一个被藐视的民主党总统，而是向叙利亚，以及一个可能更危险的国家伊朗发出信号。
“Right now, the easy Republican vote looks like the vote against Obama,” said Michael Goldfarb, a neoconservative lobbyist and writer. “Ten days from now, a vote against Obama could look like a vote for Assad, especially if Republicans succeed in blocking U.S. action, and Assad goes on to prevail, having used chemical weapons, with Iran at his side.”
“现在看来，对共和党而言，似乎投票反对奥巴马最合理，”非保守派游说者和作家迈克尔·戈尔德法布(Michael Goldfarb)说。“10天后，投票反对奥巴马将会像是投票支持阿萨德，尤其是如果共和党成功阻止了美国的军事行动，并导致使用了化学武器的阿萨德在伊朗的帮助下大获全胜。”