“You’ve been very, very brave.”
“你非常，非常勇敢。”
That’s what Saul soothingly said to Carrie in the fourth episode of “Homeland,” but it’s also what Showtime should tell viewers who patiently sat through the first three disappointing episodes of the series’s third season.
这是索尔(Saul)在《国土安全》(Homeland)第四集中安慰卡莉(Carrie)时说的话，但它也是映时(Showtime)频道应该对那些耐心看完该剧第三季令人失望的前三集的观众说的话。
This once sleek and sure-footed espionage thriller had seemed off-kilter, slow and even dull. Then, a week ago, the story took a promising twist. Sunday’s episode, the fifth, kept the momentum going.
这部曾经流畅、稳健的间谍惊悚剧一度似乎出现了问题，变得拖沓、乏味。然后，就在一周前，这个故事发生了有希望的转变。周日播放的第五集又有了新的动力。
There are still irritating elements in “Homeland,” but now, almost midway through the narrative, the show has a surge of energy and even some reasons to keep watching.
《国土安全》仍有让人不快的元素，但是现在，叙事进行到中途，突然有了活力，甚至有了让人看下去的理由。
And that’s remarkable given how difficult it is to sustain a show that made its mark by preserving psychological realism even as it kept adding increasingly preposterous plot turns.
这真的很了不起，因为这部电视剧以不断增加不合理的情节转折，同时又保持心理上的真实感而著称，要维持下去真的很不容易。
Especially now, when so many National Security Agency secrets have been laid bare by Edward J. Snowden, American intelligence is under intense public scrutiny — and suspicion. Each misstep or shortcut taken by “Homeland” writers grates because many viewers are no longer as confident about what our spies can or can’t do in real life.
特别是现在，美国国家安全局的诸多秘密被爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)公布于众，美国情报机构正处于公众的严密监视和深刻质疑之中。《国土安全》的编剧们稍有不慎或者懈怠，都可能让人不快，因为很多观众不再信任现实生活中的间谍们能做什么，不能做什么。
But it’s not the breaches of protocol that jar the most. Worse were those early episodes that seemed to break faith with the viewer’s understanding of at least two main characters, the Central Intelligence Agency spymaster Saul Berenson (Mandy Patinkin) and his brilliant bipolar protégée, Carrie Mathison (Claire Danes). There could be a shadow of doubt about Saul’s loyalty to his country. (There was a mole somewhere in the government, after all.) But there was never any question about his feelings for Carrie.
但是，让大多数人震惊的不是那些违规行为，而是这一季的前几集似乎违背了观众对至少两个关键人物的理解：中情局的首脑索尔·贝伦森（Saul Berenson，曼迪·帕汀金[Mandy Patinkin]饰）和他杰出的、患有躁郁症的门徒卡莉·马西森（Carrie Mathison，克莱尔·丹尼斯[Claire Danes]饰）。索尔对祖国的忠诚有点可疑（毕竟政府中有个卧底）。但是他对凯莉的感情从来没有任何问题。
That’s why it was disconcerting when Saul, as interim C.I.A. director, seemed to be setting up Carrie to take the fall for the terrorist bombing of the agency headquarters. However clever, that turn seemed inconsistent with his nature and the show’s ethos: “Homeland” was good mostly because even when the story turned far-fetched and almost silly, its heroes stayed true to themselves; the psy-ops in the show could turn cartoonish, but the psyches of its characters were layered and believable.
所以，当暂时担任中情局主管的索尔陷害卡莉，让她变成中情局总部遭恐怖主义爆炸袭击的替罪羊时，人们觉得很难接受。不管这个情节转变显得多么巧妙，它似乎与索尔的本质以及这部剧的理念不一致。《国土安全》的优秀之处主要在于：即使故事变得牵强附会，甚至有点愚蠢，里面人物的心理始终是前后一致的；剧中的心理战可能有点卡通化，但人物的心理是扎实、可信的。
So it was exciting to discover that Saul’s betrayal was all part of an elaborate sting operation, and also a relief. When Saul and Carrie met in private at long last, he commended her courage because it turned out that her meteoric fall — including a stint in a psychiatric ward — was all part of a ruse to persuade Iranian spies that Carrie, disgraced, broke and bitter, could be turned into an informant.
所以，当你发现索尔的背叛实际上是一个精心设计的圈套时，便会感到兴奋而欣慰。当索尔和卡莉最终私下里会面时，他称赞了她的勇气，因为她短暂的崩溃——包括在精神病院短期停留——都是为了让伊朗间谍误以为名声扫地、一文不名、满心痛苦的卡莉可以被策反成告密者。
When Carrie went off her medication and ended up in the hospital, the relapse seemed repetitive and even hackneyed. But when it turned out that she derailed as part of her imposture, that tack suddenly seemed fresh and rang true. Since the very first episode, this strange, unorthodox and often unpleasant heroine was always ready to go to extremes. She underwent electroshock treatment at the end of the first season because she believed that she had made an unpardonable mistake in her work. It makes sense that she would strap a straitjacket back on to trap the terrorists who had committed an unpardonable crime.
卡莉因停止用药而最终不得不重回医院，这样的故态复萌似乎是简单的重复，甚至显得俗套。但是当你发现这次崩溃只是她设计的骗局时，情节一下子显得新鲜而真实。从第一集开始，这个古怪、异常、郁郁寡欢的女主人公总是准备走极端。在第一季结尾的时候，她接受了电击治疗，因为她以为自己犯了个不可原谅的错误。所以可以理解，为了诱捕犯下不可原谅罪行的恐怖主义分子，她可以再次穿上约束衣。
It’s still not clear whether Brody (Damian Lewis), the Marine who was turned into a double agent while in captivity, is innocent or guilty of the terrorist attack on the C.I.A., and he is still mostly absent from the scene. His story line hasn’t yet intersected with Carrie’s. The two have parallel plights. She is medicated into a zombie state in the psychiatric ward; and Brody, held by Venezuelan thugs force-fed heroin to dull his wits, is trapped in a different kind of madhouse. But that juxtaposition is a distant one. The first two episodes go by without a glimpse of Brody, and when he shows up in the third episode — in a squatters’ unfinished high-rise in Caracas — his is an unrelieved, and not particularly interesting, solo performance.
我们还不清楚被俘期间被策反成双面间谍的海军陆战队士兵布洛迪（Brody，戴米恩·刘易斯[Damian Lewis]饰）在中情局恐怖袭击中是无辜的还是有罪的，他大部分时间仍不出镜。他的故事线和卡莉的故事线还没有衔接上。他们两个陷入了类似的困境。她在精神病房里因药物治疗变得麻木；布洛迪则被困在另一种精神病院里——他被委内瑞拉暴徒抓住，被迫服用海洛因，神志不清。但是两人处境相同，却相隔遥远。布洛迪在前两集中没有露面，在第三集中出现的时候，他身处加拉加斯一个未建成的摩天大楼里，他的经历是单调的、不是特别有趣的独角戏。
Brody’s removal from the forefront may turn out to have a purpose, but it mostly feels like the kind of choice writers make because they don’t really have one — an actor’s contract or scheduling conflict forces them to write the character into the far background.
布洛迪退居幕后，可能随剧情发展会表明具有某种目的，但是让人感觉主要还是因为编剧们别无选择——演员的合同或档期冲突使他们不得不把那个人物写成藏在幕后。
And without Brody, it seemed as if his daughter, Dana (Morgan Saylor), was being served up as a stand-in, and the focus on her teenage angst was drawn out and tedious. It wasn’t Ms. Saylor’s fault, but Dana was on screen so often, in the same mannered slump of grievance, that she became a figure of parody on “Saturday Night Live.” As it turned out, all that adolescent acting out at least had a point: Carrie, always susceptible to Brody and his family, risks blowing her cover to help track down and recover the runaway Dana. That distraction puts Carrie off her game and off her guard, and she ends up the way Brody’s double life began, with a black hood over her head. Peter Quinn (Rupert Friend) is appalled that Saul let his colleague go undercover as a traitor without their surveillance, fretting that in the hands of the Iranians, Carrie is all on her own.
没了布洛迪，他的女儿丹娜（Dana，摩根·塞勒[Morgan Saylor]饰）似乎成了他的替身。对她青春期焦虑的关注冗长而乏味。虽然那不是塞勒的错，但是丹娜的戏份太多了，而且总是一副郁郁寡欢的样子，所以她成了《周六夜现场》中被模仿取笑的人物。后来的剧情表明，所有那些青春期焦虑的宣泄至少还有一个目的：总是易受布洛迪及其家人影响的卡莉冒险暴露自己的身份，帮助追踪和寻找离家出走的丹娜。这件事让卡莉失去了正常的水准，放松了警惕，最终像布洛迪的双面间谍生活开始的那一刻一样，被套上了黑色的头罩。索尔让同事以叛徒的身份去卧底，且不进行监视，这让彼得·奎恩（Peter Quinn，鲁伯特·弗兰德[Rupert Friend]饰）感到震惊，他为卡莉独自一人落在伊朗人手里感到不安。
“She’s always been on her own,” Saul replies. Many viewers were ready to abandon her, and quite a few already have. But even without Brody, or backup, Carrie alone in captivity holds out hope that “Homeland” isn’t all washed up.
“她一直都是一个人，”索尔说。很多观众已经准备好放弃她了，相当一部分人已经放弃了。但是即使没有布洛迪，也没有后援，被囚禁的孤独的卡莉仍然令人相信，《国土安全》不会彻底完蛋。